# 104-10179-10076

## Page 1

104-10179-10076

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproducer

CLASS GED MESSAGE

SECRET

1R04

#ya SEp 60.

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

03

CAs 9 (19.

COP, 200P/N0 S/032

SEP. 03.04157 60

WH. DiNOR DOTIFIED 0050,

13 SEP)

AN: 11660

ER MASH CITE MOLA 5115

CAO MIET

FIF

HAVA SIIE CAN MILOS

10*

DIT 45569(0u- 67509)

1• HE DOZA ARRIVING

MINI CLOREA ELT: 3IB AT 2200 HOURS 2

SIR. SINCE HE WILLHAVE NO DOLINS PLEASE LEAVE SSO TORONT

I ENVELOTE AT PRA INFORTION LECH AT TERMINAL IN HIS TALES

2. ISCOZA WILD STAY IN

FAMILY GUMED APARTMENT LOGASEDAT

ZAR OS 4158 ALTON POAD, TAME TEACHO TELEPHONE JENS S1960

urtt

EXPICT. TELSPICE CALL FION PET SAISHALL" BETWEEN ESCO HOURS

82 SEPT AND SERZ HOURS US SEPOSUGGESTS THIS AP ROENTSES

iS LEETING PLACES

SNOOZA HOPES HAVE NET TIC CITS SEPT UITH GUSYS AND

STEVEZ. IS THIS LAID CHO STRTICK SUGGESTS MARSHALL CONTACT

LECIZA: PRICE TO HIS MUZZING CBIS IN ORDER THAT MAXTHIN

EXPLOITATION CAN BE NADEATH S CACH UNITY TO BRING INPORTANT

RAT GROUF INTO ANTASPO

*: REPRODUCTION BY OIMER TRAS

VpV

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGS

HAYA: 6145

SECRET

A1Б РАСС

IN 1116C0

HO ROY IS SENDING HIS WIFE LED TIVE CHILDREN TO STATES,

CL STATION CATER ASSISTANCE TO RAY I PORN DE MONTILY DOLLAR

• FAYHENT TO ASSIST THEM WILE THERE&

TAY MAN OF LITTLE PERSONAL

MEANS AND CESTURE 'OF THIS MATURE FROM KUBARK AND NOTAROM GRASP

MAY FAY LARGE TUTURE DIVIDENES: ADVISE.

FILED 821955Z

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT :

"STATED MANUEL RAY WAS SENDING IGNACIO MENDOZA Y DE LA TORRE TO

MIAMI FOR THE MIRPOSE OF COTTAGTINO DR. ESTEVEZ AND RAUL CHIGAS

ADIARE COPY MADE AVAILABLI. 0050, 13 SEP 60.

WE recenal

---

