# 104-10185-10097

## Page 1

104-10185-10097

•SL'SJSET

INO.

Pacas

DATE AÇO

SOURCS

NO FORT DISSEM

Cuba

Armardo (patronymic urinown)

ESPORT NO:

DATE DISTR

NO: PAGES

REFERENCES

CScf-316/00718-64

9. September 1964

RETURNTO CIA,

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

: 1964

Washing.org

D.C.

Sentember 1964

FIELD REPORT. NO

EVALUATEO

INFORMATION.

SORE GOLDINGS ARI DIFINITIVE APPRÁISAL DE AUSTENT IS:TI

TATiVE:

A former Cuban IS office. who served with the Cabar Inteligence

Service until April 196%

Headquarters Commerts

The following reportis oce of a series cortainirg personality

Information provided by one source ard includes supplementa

Information from the recoras of this Agency.

It is recüested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Incividuals mentioned in the personality reports washout first

checising with this Agency.

Armando (pironymic uninown), pscudosym "Frances,

works at ne Suecial School of the Direccion Generál de Inicligenet

(Goneral Directorate o: Intelligence - DGI) where guerrilla warfare

training is given foreigress; he is in charge of classes in

explisives.

armando is a captain in the rebel arry.

an aide to Raul CASTRO and fought with his group ia the

2.

Source described Arniando as a Cuban citizer sho was

born about 1929.

He is about five feet sever or eight inches rig

155 pounds, and has a mesium build. He has a fair complesior,

black, short, hair, slightly bald in front, small eyes, a hawk

nose, anga Leando, r,3,9,58, 2yays wears an army.

4

3

2

'STATE

1 DIA

ARMY

EP CNCLAT

Note: Fiela dutribuion indicated by "==*,g

1S2,S03:3/5/3

152,54/R 11:

RID/AN

NE VÄVEIL!

TOTALS

V: S: 7(1). 131(2). CIA RD 1

1028 80 1

ARSDLITE PREVINUS DINOiS.

+ 600706 1965

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

NSA

+819448100-949

3

2

00e

TFBI 2

CA CSO a

comand Gremen

_I3-1658

15368r Assal

CSCI-316/0001g.64

-1-:

-.3

STADINTING S

16, 83

301-233699

prom

3/p/

---

## Page 2

NO FORE TUSEDISSSH

4:

6:

7.

er Concuts

Merco Con Cronyale

taintoasts for this assumption is chase

as aracE to Paust CASTRO and it would scontan

13009 y

secretes with such sintlar nanosy

MASONAS

dost

olone traces, thor back round pen to pens other

instances:

tod chatan

ara tard tuniversity Studentel pedeny on get

in versity.

*Habana: Cuban Bets Mavolved

ors to obtain ald In the campaign, asainst the rutiala

A rally serable source in a report datede Sort 1048m oadd th

Anando Tors vas one of the persons porsonally contacted by

Iss111: BOGar REV and Ivan MiS liSs nitesard to the establ labnent

of a Commor

Carenu in Habana so

cal corinted not acco alas to come seen

and Tells le a cuban bro-commont teddiesate to the farm thed

chemican out confess hold a desico la late plane Baue

CoRRu representative to the Congress.

Ada untested source in a report dated 9 July 2958, sald that Armando

TORRES, also referrod to as "BurIalo Bill," clatned he was Cuban

born,

but had studced in Spain and France

In a report dated 1l July 1958, an unknown source listed the most

important peogle surrounding Raul CASTRO: Included was lt. Armando

TORRE, an aide to CASTRO, and described as having been boin in

Canasuoy, studied In Paris, traveled to Spain and called "The

Frenchman:

In this sane report an untested source. said that

¿mando TarRE, aka: "Bufialo Bill,.

•was born In Habana about 1926,

nas:

five feet six inches tall, 140 pounds, had black hair and an

0l1v0

complexion

Two usually reliable sources, in a report dated 3 and 10 July 195S

described armando TORRES, an aide to Raul CASTRO, as a suspected

Coszunist vao had returned. Cuba fron Spain and Kungary ten months

before... TORPES was identified as onc. of the persons responsible

for the rebel decision to abduct Anerican citizens in June 1958.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

¡source mose reliability is chicora side mat arrcado TORRES

to had interviered the ex-costa Rican Prestons, Jose FiGurES,

Ceanois 1n 1950.

That following the Hungarian Resolicion no roles)

ters to Vichna to aid jungarica refusees and cancesticly cate ed

guarant

101

siventcen hours bosore returning. to

Vacana.

The roport was dased 14 July 195s.

do unrestod sourco with excelions concace

1== SCROTE

caled 3 July 1959;

stated that captaia nando ToRaes

tas thy. Cuban military attacte to unitis

0m uncested source, in a report dated 3 Nas 19595 said spoon as

one, Cuban Anbassador, artived in Rode on 10 April 1900 and sett

Sor New Yorks on 26 April 1900 sla Pay Mertean Airlines:

me accoads of this agency rivealed a cops of a passpont los

estate nance Toms desores issued orin on 5 art 1260)

cia the destiniacion, Babajador put cordatasio,

"Iso. Included

va Cuban Revoluttonary identification Card for Armando TORRES

y resoros showing de held the rors pricaptain in se Darescion;

Inseligoacha Cop and that he was born an Canssuey, Cuba, on

A seprembor 1930. TORRES vas ta Rose on an ars buying mission.

Collotice Informion

He was born in 1931,

Is married and has one child

He

o Vilua ESPIN and Rais CASTRO and always lives: very.

to: the lictor.

He is five feet ten inches all, weighs.

between 115 and 150 pounds, has greenise broug eyes, black hair.

i can Lace and is white.

He was in the Sierrs Jrestra with:

Faul CASTRO.

TORRES speaks French, English, Italian, Germar,

Jamaican, Russian,

and Portuguese.

His speciality is ciphers

ind translatzons and he has been an assessor of: 211

the

dozartments of G-2:

In G-2 he is ir charge of raining

military attaches.

TonEs, who is adventurous and brave, is

100% Communist.

'SE. C. RE T

NO FOREIGN DISSE

---

