# 104-10186-10212

## Page 1

104-10186-10212

INFORMATION REPORT INFORM TION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRi Cuba

SUBJECT AntONIO CIRCEDO Ferrer

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO

DATE DISTI

NO. PAGES

REFERENGES

CS.CI-316/00487-65

CS-311/0011564

(page 12)

DATE OF 1964

8 July 1964

INFO.

CSCI-316/00701-64

PLACE" Washington, D.

C.

DATE ACQ. Annurre 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

31 August 1964

THIS IS UNEVAIUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL Of CONTENI IS TENTATIVI

SOURCE:

A former. Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untal April 1964.

licaciuarters Comments

infornation provided by the

Inforation from the records of this Agency.

It ts: ested that the addressees take no action on any of

the in. .viduals mentioned in the personality reports without

first c.ocking with this Agency.

Antouso CARCEDO Ferrer, pseudonym "Andres," s a Cuban Citizen

and was born between 1925

and 1930.

CARCEDO is

a negro with light skin

and & black moustache.

Headguar .ers Comment

1.

Aside from the information forwarded in the above two

references,

the records

of this Agency have no additional

identifiable information concerning CARCEDO.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

* Do Not Reproduce

4/v

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

! OIA

ARAAY

I NAVT

1 AIR

INSA

REP

CTO CLINT

CINCSO E

(Mess: Pield distribution indica:ed by "a".)

1 oce

TFBI 2

INFORMATION REROR! INFORMATION REPORT

HA TAKE

TOrAL M, SA 8 (11, WEL (2), ClA. MID 1

• 4X-2280

JO PROJECT (AXMUG/ 1)

.CSCI-316/00137-65

I COCADIATINO!

BLS: LD: 5wk

ICA

---

