# 104-10186-10047

## Page 1

104-10186-10047

INFORMATION REPORT MINPORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Rosita (LNO)

DATE DISTA.

NO. PAGES

CS CI-316/02269-65

26 May 1963

1

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE,

REFERENCES

CSCA -316/02270-63

26 May 1965

1964

RETURN TO CIA

Washington, D. C.

February 1965

Blackground Use Only

FIELD REPORT NO.

•. Do Not Reproduce

THIS 15. UNEVALUATED INPORMATION. BOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFIMITIVE APPRAISAS, OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban iS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Hescquarters Comments

e following report is one of a sertes containing personalit

foraation provided by the source and includes supplemebt

the records of this Agency.

t Is requested that the addressees take no action on any o

he individuals mentloned in the personality reports withou

first checing with this Agency.

to joining Cubana

ource described Rosita as being the daughter of i well

nown Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department o

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Rosita (LNU).

4

8

2

4

STATE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

REP CINCLAST CHICSO A FEIS

TXKXX

1 OCE

T FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

I HASHKI

LLX 2125

10 PROJECT (AMMUGAL)

CSC1-316/02269-65

WIL/S/RR/OSS:

WH/ MAYE

TOTAL WH/C 8 11).

BID/AX

WEL (1), CIA, RID RID1

LIAISOA

LD;sw's

C1/R$A

---

