# 104-10428-10012

## Page 1

1104-10428.10012)

SECRET

Ci.-

ALN-72-77

11 March 1977

MEVORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miami Field Office

FROM

: Chief, Domestic Collection Division,

Operations Services Group, Alien Branch

SUBJECT

: Case 57845

Please show the attached photographs of an unidentified

man to Subject..

The unidenti

fied man visited the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in

Mexico City during

October 1963.

As of October 1963, he was described as approximately

athletic -build, about. 6 feet tall, blond receding hairline with

balding top, and wore khakis and sport shirt.

We would appreciate any information Subject is able to

provide on this man.

Should you obtain any OIR reports, please use referent

CPLA- 006877.

03

Attachments:

As stated

1tg

TG 12.13

SETSTHE

25122SM

E 2 I PDET CL BY 006875

SECRFT

4FV

---

## Page 2

13-00000

vipu

SC2019

Source

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 18I6DOZ MAR 77 STAFF

CITE DODMIAMI 13919

TOS DCD/HEADQUARTERS•

WNINTEL /WOMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MIAMI OIR-06870-77

SUBJECT & UNIDENTIFIED KGB OFFICER

REF: -DELA-ASE 57845 -

ON 17 MARCH 1977, A FORMER MEMBER OF THE CUBAN GENERAL

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE (DGI) WAS REQUESTED TO IDENTIFY AND

THE FORMER DGI MEMBER

WHOM HE MET IN

HE SAID THAI YURI, A FLUENT ENGLISH AND SPANISH SPEARER,

WAS ACTING AS A TROLBLESHOOTER FOR THE CUBAN GROUP, ABOUT 15,

ATTENDING THE COURSE•

THE FORMER

DG I MEMBER SAID THAT THE CUBAN GROUP • ALONG WITH

THE BULGARIANS, WERE QUARTERED

IN THE SAME BUILDING IN MOSCOW AND

THAT YURI LIVED WITH THEM.

ANYTIME THAT THE CIBANS HAD A PROBLEM

YURI WOULD SOLVE IT FOR THEM.

HE ALSO SAID THAT XURI WAS A GOOD

FRIEND OF JUAN (PSEUDO), A KGB OFFICER WHO TAUGHT THE CUBANS ABOUT

THE AGENCY AND THE WEST GERMAN INTELLIGENCE APPARAIUS.

THE FORMER DGI MEMBER ONE DAY THAT HE HAD SERVED IN MEXICO FOR

ABOUT 20 YEARS- AND IN THE US CLANDESTINELY FOR ABOUT 10 YEARS.

SEAS: A

THE TIME JUAN WAS ABOUT 55 YEARS OLD•

YURI DID NOI ATTEND CLASSES

WITH THE CUBAN GROUP•

HE WAS ONLY ENTRUSTED WITH THEIR WELFARE.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

CONFIDENTIAL

---

