# 104-10167-10083

## Page 1

104-10167-10083

DIAZ

Larry

. STORETI

22 September 1959

MICHORA THON FOR THE LECORD

SUNECI: COnversatIons Wth REICHHARIT, 8, 9, 16, 17 September 1959

Lo On 8 Sostember Raschhardt phoned to report the follordag:

No He took Marcos DIAI Lans to the office of INS on le

day, 7 Septenber to taise care of his Imigration

statos. (Commonts I was later called by bill COTIra

of tha Alien iranch, (S concerning inta.

CCITE? said

tbas when they reported tila to INs - tbat service said

that BEENS, the IS an 1n mi has told then that

DIAT" beariog had already beon beld shortly after his

arrival. COTTEr. Implied that bernie was not reporting.

necarately on the eituation in liesl. I bave not su

peated thia to bernie, because Mien Dra:ch seem to be

In nonethins of a blasy "n regard to the new people in

INs with soon they are dealing as a result of recect

transfers of sersonnal.)

Doride saked is so caly that I santed in the may al

an afildavit of cusport. for the wife of Sarcos Dull.

I elerated a minole stáverent and told Fernie to have

18 notarized and aceospanied by a bank sisterent or

sindles docurent tedicuting tililus" ability to spport

Berate reported that ts. Catherine Ilils, the Inter.

national busybody claima

that she is going to Cuba on

our instigation, she 18 accompanted by ber. entire

fadlyo. This Iniorabion come fron toe Miant Chief

of butective to the 00 Representative.

do

Berade asked bow he could identity hinself to the three

evacones 1n fial me have lostruosod his to contact re

going to the Dordaieen kesblic on our behalf. I told

him to use Dave Morales' nano.

an amlad no for information on our dispatch to care in

ononetion ulth the fifa for AYCOO and the gift. I

told him I'd eback and les bia koon. (Cosment:

•The

mano day I san a dispatch frca invana anevering &be

questions, as 1af0 copy of mich vent to Bernio.)

SECRETI

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ISEGRET

2.

2. I phoned Reichhardt on 9 September and un discunsed she falloudng

mattars!

704

olice agent, Dernie la to Bee

For dotalls on D4.

(Cosants Falchheris's report vus received

on Il Septerber o)

bo

Reichhardt anbed n to check on his mary situation

since no deposit bes been side.

Reichhardt saled 1f I had seen coples of the nous

Letter being Matributed by inilio :211 Portuando

called LatIn iserIcan 3rer-se

"t niz 1s listed sa

editor and pablisber and sa fira la intin Amerieza

Affaira Ince, 1028 Connectiout aveme, inabinator

The first 1ssie 18 pubilesed 0s ? nugast. Ihe 17

Lagast 18810 1scluden a 1106 of Conteso. (Consents

I as arrangine for the CI! Ibrary to procore 1303

conten of the publication dE ne to TorLel.)

do

Ji2z ans la Miard lant renk. CHIRaA did not 80e hin,

allod that bo kas sueconded in obtaintag US support

In the Departsento of Siats and Defense incinding

coritzenza far brainlag sises in the Inited States.

KyTEr also said that ha 1s in touch sila Gal. lingo

This nas corered 1n 06as15.

30 On I5 Septenber I talbad with solchhardt eoncerning the falloningt

No. Ricardo LEII san FCS. Surale uill see ICRIB abost Bale.

bo

Bernio will se fOl thie mel.

The addressos for the tuo eracuess ute cane by way el

El Salvados are not correct. I Lold berndo to Ery to

And out share tbry une tron the third, wich whes

da la contecto

k.

On 16 Septober tãe fallondre sattora vero dlocusred misa

Reichbardes

4/BR

---

## Page 3

SaTaINIS:

He called in tbe morning to ask for infor

ation on thie san.

secording to beichhardt, han

mya that he ma fir.: fron the DIE Iu antico

mist activitles and vas expected to arrive in Miend

last night, uar la vorpled about his because of bia

purious post as do. 2 man in the 11it. The Cuban eard

confirus tha: be bold the latter post..

bo

De LCRIE says that he knoss IS well, dad 1ikas hir.

Tary sat in Mland last vocko Rhi do 10 Ylani spain.

Ro8 ia principally interested in getting seynaldo

RidICO 01t of Cube. Ros says he was fold the Anerjeen

Kabaasy can have no part of this but suzzested be (alS)

Berade discouraged ICKIE about belping HAitO.

Bernie

Teals it 1ar range that Station Havana vaild tell ACS

about IOPIE's Miad contact and that lie formr sight

have ls-recremented what as said. (Consent, he can-

not poeitively identity BidiCO although such an 10d1-

Tinal wes liated by LURZ and the Il'i lans as an Army

officer.

de may have been one of the 1957 regaler arry

piotters.).

ICET also asid halp in converting Pesos to dollaru.

Bernde did not give him an sonver on this.

do

LORIS said be santa to establish contsct with ROS.

The play ve beve to far orl? envisages communication.

Dren RCS 1n Farana to lazIE, itile serie would pro

ter to handle the natter personally, I think I con

viacso hin thai bois is infeasibie because of tbe

danger of provocation. ia therefore sisgested having

04

brought into the picture, cocously, as an

Individual who would get in touch wid iRIE whes tbere

In sonothing for him froa hus - and voo sill call LuRIE

periodicaly to lind: out 11 UNIL wants to trancelt

.. LORIS told serode that Cuban opposition riove BOLSAL's

Brip to the üS as a victory for the opposition " bat

Bhat 18 ENSA,, returned to Cuba they adll vien the

Ntum as a Balah for CASTRO.

decording to an 00 source irs. Katherine TAAVE adll be

retaring to bbe U'5 from Caba in a lou days.

She told

at least one daertcan in Cuba, Barry Rosenfeld, that abe

1a working for CIA.

SECRET

2/8R

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGRET.

So In connection with my enflies query no the ruport from

Cube abat the Revolazionary Air Force la plaming te

remove a couple of planes frus the 15 to Caba without

A Ciban. alr. force miasion 1s in 41an1:00

The Cubars are baopy with tie

" Not bare to export these yo

to a party la lavana to do given by Juan tiralde In bis

honor.

he way so on Friday. Lo ve hare ruguirements

for bis?

• Ou the sorring of 17 ragust I phoned Bernde to tell him about th

ral anup on the resort conceraine the planes (Haba 2653), be 6a14!

phoned him on the erening of la Septenber abost this.

berate bald ta pessed 03

the taforation to Customs, who said that since the Cabar iir Forue are the

onners of the piases (they are 1I 6'8) there 18 little that can be done 11

they file Micht piana for a local Plight and then leane for Cuba. They

maled bernie for suRgestions and ne said be bad none. I

the Cabana asked his 11 he could ind herican alloss for the plant a 04

and he said he'd try, but actually has no intention of doing so.

was isproosed at ibe speed and socracy of our inforation, but biBlevel

that tbo Cuban Coverent: 1a being precipitate in expecting to goô the

pianos out.

D3

11/10 -

SEORET

T/BR

---

