# 104-10186-10119

## Page 1

104-10186-10119

IN FORMATON REPORT

IINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Felix PITA Astudillo

REPORt NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI -316/01290-64

5 October 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. October 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

MIS IS UNEVALUATEO INFORMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ARE ORIMITIVE, APPRAISAI DE CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Nos Reprodua

4

3

2

1

4/N

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency•

Source identified a photograph of Felix PITA Astudillo as

being a member

of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

irectorate of Intelligence • DGI. 1,2,3,4,:

Headquarters Comments

1. In a report dated ll August 1962, Felix PITA was identilled as

the Cultural Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

2. In a report dated 14 January 1963, it was reported by a grou

of Cuban emigre's trained in the techniques of informatior

collection

and who have provided useful

reports for two years,

that Felix PITA Astudillo is an assistant (sic) at the Cuban

Embassy in Rio de Janelro.

3.

A defected Cuban intelligence officer, in a report dated

1 February 1963, stated that Felix PITA Astudillo is the

son of Felix PITA Rodriguez,

the Communist poet.

During

the Batista regime PITA lived in Venezuela.

In 1961 ho

attended the MINREX Diplomatic School, he also attended the

Escuela de Cuadros Politicos (the Communist Party political

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

I NAVY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

I ocR

TFBI 2

(Nara: Fiold distribution indkoled by "#".)

RIMATION

REP

RTT

RIM

ANTO

INI

REPORT

AI/SA/EOB !1

WELSUR

111/54/4081

NE MADEL

15-

2LCI/R&A

[LE)

LIES

LIX - 1695

TO PROJECT (ANNUG.

CSCI-316/01230-6

RIDLAY

TOTALE

578/01

(1)

WE: 601

LIAIsON =

---

## Page 2

14-00000

5.

SECRET

NO FOREIGE DISSEN CSCI-316/01230-64

- 2-

Indoctrination school).

Source described PITA as having been born

about 1911 in Cuba, being about five feet eight inches tall, 130

pounds, having light eyes, nedium-dark hair, a slin build, and white.

did not know his Communist Party atatus.

A fairly reliable

source, from a report dated 16 February 1963,

that Felix PiTa is the son of Felix PITA Rodriguez, author,

PITA was born about 1941.

Cultural Attache about April or May 1962,

Source also stated that

PITA was rather cowardly and timid, that. he was afraid to leave the

embassy premises and

would not go out on the streets alone. PITA

to be an opportunist rather than a Communist or pro-Castro

and possibly obtained his job through his father's influence.

In a report dated 12 March 1963, Felix PITA was identified as a

Cuban intelligence officer under cover as the Cultural Attache in

in Rio' de Janeiro.

..

SE CRE 1

• DISSEM

---

