# 104-10101-10249

## Page 1

104-10101-10249

Toda

14,

202207

HILO

19100

WHORITY MUNI

#CUTIEN

HAGU MASO

Thin mi th

PRELAND

WORLD DRIXP

(NOMORN IN SEATS, ERNA INING INFO

I. MERLIN: THE COMUNISTS VIEN AB "OPTICIAL" THE TALKS ERTIKEN

BANT AND WIT MERLIN NNGOTIATORA UNICH ACHINYTO THE ARRANT ON

GENTLAS PAANES AND CONSIDE THEN A BOOBS TO MASCORE "FRES CITT"

AS FOR VETT BERLIN. WILLS BRANDT, ON LAN OTHER BAND, REGARDS

TRONICAL" AND AS SO UNTDACK TO HIS STATURE IN WEST

GIRON POLITICE:

3. PARCELAYLA: //LITO IS APPAREIICY NO LONGER DISPLY INVOLVED IS

ADITROTRATSON OF TUGOSLAT ASTAIRS, NE HAS EXHURITIO, LACE OF

KHONES AD UIDERSTANDING OR A NUMER OP FORNICE POLICY ISSUES AND

RAS SEE DISTING HIRSELF OF REPOIBITIN TO RASPONSIBL

OMELALA LiVE EXPESSED CONCERN TAT MIS PACTITICS LAVE DINED //

8. MORTE VISTINE• BRATY PRODADANDA SUPRASTA ON THE THIO

AT TVRIBART OF THE NATIONAL FROST TOR THE LIESRATIUN DE SOTTI PIETLAN

emians die

SCCRET

ANOSUCTON E:

8978

16/80

---

## Page 2

bruncane:

THRICTORY

90 74 2504

INtO

36/18A

90407

URGENTS A COMING CONTETICE TI RANOI THAT LABURGATE CAN SUSTAIN

ANO CANNOTE CUTER SOBIZION BASATTA IN BACKERO ON THE SOUTH VIET

Wen (CONF

TEPORTEDLY

TEM: CONTINE DEI

I DIRT OF THE

MAN IN TIE SOVIET-RONTATSO ATE DIRINA PREDA DE ALRO DACREARING

A BOVILY SO 1-CLASS ALICRASER BAB ARRISED I CHRAY LINERS AND THO

OSSINIS NAS PROBABLY EX BOUTE.

6. LORR: IRONICHY'S LONG-RANI PROGRAN TOR DAVEROPMDIY OF

TE BOTTLE CARICAL LIQUSTRY IN TO EL ACCORPANISO BE RATRENCHNDOTT

DI OTHER PARTS OF TIL ECONOMY DURINO TAN HIT THO TRAFE. SOGGIZE.

CONSUMER SEIVICES, AND SOBS ELATY IIDONTRTAL PRODOCTION ARE TO BE

ANTACTIO, AND IT SEES LINELY THAT TAXES VILL BE A SECTINO IN TERE

PUTS AT TRICE ILITAT IXPEODITURRA NAVE DACTRUSTO STACE LAGO

6 ITALS: DUITS 1804T T MORO COVERITT E FRABILITY BATE

SORRIBRO PONTEE: IS i RESULT CE BIRORA TONS ON COMPPIBENCE 5T

ACTIVE C1: EX INT 1 19T20RST7 RUS DER STARTINE $T 819

SPAL TO MIS IT SAL NITE LONNIS POR ARENTS TO CRIS SEE

55%

•ортой

---

## Page 3

(PAGE THRIL)

• 904".

SUPPOTE ON THE CONPIDEYCE TOTY MORD'S POBITION IN SITINKA NECAUST

SP THIO AND ENCAUSE LE THE TATICAN'S DERBURE ON CHRISTIAN DINOCS:

RIGRTVINGEES NOT TO HUNAR PARET UASTY (CONF)

1. CUZA• THE CASTRO KEGIN SIS DIET ON CULTIVATINO AFTIL.

COUNTRICS AS WAY OF LISBENTIG ITS ISOLATION ION TE FRIE TORLD "

OASSY IN TANGANTIIA IDICATES THIS.

Di aNDITICS, CUIA HAS, DURING

THE RAET MONI, EXPANDED CONTACTS VITE ILL COMITRIES SOUTE OF THE

SAARA, THERE IS ALSO ILASON TO BURPRGI AFRICANS GOING TO CURA O8

SCHOLARSHIPS AET GETTING TRATHING IN GUERILIA WhILE rECINIQUES.

8. /BRITTEN FOREICH POLICY UNNER TIE DOUGLAS-HOME GOVERINRSTT

DNCRIASIIGHY FOCUSED ON KATPING SHE EAST-LAST AXALOTU OPEN AND

IMPROVING RELATIONS WITE WEST GIRIANY, BOTH BLE AXIS AND FORSIGN

SECASTARY BUTLER ESPECIALLY DITARNSED TO KEEP EXPLORINE ANSAR

POSSIBLE AGREMENT WITH MOSCOW - A POLICY WHICH PAID OFF HANDSONELY

POR CONBERRATIVES IN ELECTIONS OF 1055 ARD 1939. MAIN OBJECTIVE -

BUTLER'S RECENT VISIT. ECNN WAS TO SOUND OUT GUIRAN BRACTION TO SUCR

BRITISE INITIATIVES. //

9. BRITISH GUIANA

JACAN AND HIS LISUTENANTS HAVE BEEN ATTACKING

CONTINAT!" :

RILLABINC OFFICIA

Allis

REPRODUCTION E

48! 11i,.

i.

Cross, ma

---

## Page 4

STATE

D 100t

: 1..09

COM

MAECTOR

9010>

DO FOUR

PARED IT 11

DUCAL, DIVINIONS AND IN MINCINO WINCE TO DONTEST

MARCE LASTIONS SIT YOR SUS VAR OR TRY TO MAES

I MATI 1O VORCE. OMITION PATTS, MENNIS SAYS

PEER ISIT TO COOPERATI ARALIST SARAN METOND BRACHING A TENTATITI

GRACIOT SOT TO AITRE & IACH OMIR PERISCLY.

10. TRASCE: PARIS IS TUNINO TO PACRUTI TRADE NITE COMMURISI

CHINA BY INCOTRACIHG PRITATETINHS TO DIVELOP NEW MARKETS. TERRE

THEN ARE SUILT IN LINITATIONS TO THS INTER TRAT FRINCH-CHINESE

TRADE CAN GROW, CONPIMIUNTART PRODUCE ARK HIV, AD CHIDIT PROBLE

CONTIUS TO LIMIT PURCHASIS BY CHINBE WO BURY PRIMARILY INTEEESTEN

IN OBTAIHING FRENCH TICINICAL SILLIS. PARIS DIXINST IN CHTNESE

TRADE AND AXPANDED CULTURAL CONTACTS UTTA PIPIG HAVE STIHULATEN

SPECULATION THAI SONS BORT CE DIPLONATIC EICOGNITICN IS IT THE

OFFING. THIS IS STOUTLY DENIED AT ALL LETELS ON FRENCH COVERTUR

I1. FINLANU: FOR U

IN BECOND TIE IN FOUR HONTES FINLAND IN

GOING JUBOUGE A CABINET CRISIS BROUGHT ON AT DIRAGRANT MITHIN THE

RULING COALITION OVIR DOMESTIC LILITATION. A NO-POLITICAL COVERIPIT

+881::8

one its or ones.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

684833

rese 90.40°

(AGE FIVE)

S' CIVIL SANTANTS, HEADIO BY ECONOMIST RUINO LENTO, HAS BANI

IPPOINT TO SIRVI UNTIL THE PRESENI CONTROVIRSY IS RESOLVED. "S

ALTERIATIVE SOLUTIONS SEE LUITED TO AGRARIAN HIJORITY COVERINNT

RECONSTITUTIOT OF AGRARIAN-DONTATED COLLITIC OR AS A LAST FESORT.

GENERAL SUCTIONS. MATIVIR TIL OUTCONS, PERSIDANI LEROEDI DESIRES

(CONTINUEPROVE PALATIONS. NOECON CANS OUT AGALA DURING ELS TRIP TO T9E

0SR.

12. BOUTE KOREA: PRESIDENT PAE CHONOMUI'S BOMIHATION OF TUE

FATTORAL RETRIALI IHAUSURAIO ON 17 DEC VINER BONTE KOREA'S NEV

CONSTITUTIORAL HAGINE NAT TRADEVEZ POLITICAT LUPIORTING TO 1 SET

ARENA, THE CONTACTEISIAL FORMER ANCURITT CHIRT KIN CHORA-PIL, CONTROLS

THE PANTY APPARATUS, AND HIS MANY INKIES ARE LIKELT TO TRY TO USK

THE LIGIBLATIVI PROCESSES TO TET TO WINST PONKA FRON HIM. PRISEDIT

PAI STILL RACKS KIN, HOTEYIR, AND THEY AND THEIR CONORTO WILL CONTISUI

TO MAIE TER GOVERNIENT'S MAJOR DICISIONE. THE CABINST ERADED BY

CROS TU-SON APPEARS TO RAVE MERY CHOSEN WITH A MIND TO BALANCING

PACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL INTERESTS AND FOR AF ABILITT TO CARRY OUT.

RATHER TEN FORIULATE POIICY. WITH ELECTIONS OVER, THE RAINE IS

6O0ROINASIE 10i1.89

ee.:

1...

non+ 8404328-879986

OFFICA

do 81011-986-11

AMERICA T/81

0. 19-008

licey No.

---

## Page 6

DAMNESIN.

Ari: 8

1:26 19S-78949

109272

2702 Net:

INTO

Tra was athe 9048

LORIES TO SRIRO PECISIONS ON LOO ONTARADA PRIONS, A ATARIATE

COME ME & NEUTIC I IN FOG MAPPARO, DISCONNE FIZE

ANOR TAO DER AREA FOR

LO1 1

ShE 91 A80, 41x7o 50

A BITION OF ELATIONE

FOR TEE TI

-IT OLD CARDI PRATE APPEARS TO 203

TARA CUTHAI FOLLOWDS TIS TAXIME ON-HORE NATOR, PARTIES TO

BRING MINOS PARTIES INTO COALITION ARR

NERS. OPEN & COALITION

BATHRY THESE THO, PRIMS MINISTER INQUT'S PERICAN PEOPIE'S PARTI

AND THIS JUSTICE PARTT, OR A "HATIONAL CONTITION" ON ATE POLITICAL

GROURY, ETI

INS TO BE TRISO. DESPITZ TAN DEEP BIEVERENCES, AH

ABSOCIATION EKTUBEN THE THO MAY PROVE STASIBLE, FOR THE FOLITICIANS

FRAR THAT EXTENDING THE CRESIS MUCH LANCER MIGHT PROVOKE MILITAT

LITERATION. (CONF)

14. CORICON://IS ADOSZA SEGIE'E POSITION POLDES PRECARIOUS.

ITS NTII ITIST OPOLETS JOLTS IN & "COMUTTER CP LITICAL

LIBRRATIOTI NOT INUE TO PLOT AGATEST IT TROM PAKIR DRAZZAYILLZ RAER.

MONCE BORITRAI CHIPPLED BY LEOPOLDVILLE'S EXPLISION OF TITIR SOVIET

INDOLETON SECT:

THIS FOR MCINTE

---

## Page 7

14-00000

PACE. SEVER)

T' ASSY CONTACTS, TRE BELLIS HAVE SENT KHISSARIES ABROAD TU JEFE

PINI AND ARIS. TEFIL ¿LANS REPORTHLY INCLUDE ESSARSIATION DE :

-POPOLEN LET LEADERS, AN "LIVASION' DE TEX CONGO, AND INSTIG. TIR

& COUP BI THS CONGO ANLY THE WEADIESS OF THE LEOPOLDY ILLE LOGIST

ESPICIALLY THE QUINTIUNABLS RELIABILITY OF GETURAL MOBUTT'S ABMY

CLEARLY ENHLICES TILE CNL PROSPECTS LAST MONTH HOBUTU AND SURETE

JULE NOTARA, THE LOCISE'S THO KEYSTONTS. MERE WAYLAYED BY SOLDIET?

AND NEARLY KILLED. STUDENT AGITATION MAY RECONS A FACTOR IN STE. OF

TIE CLOSE CONNECTIONS TO STUDENT GROUPS OF TWO HIGH OFFICIALS FACEYTI.

OUSTED - FOREIGN HINISTER MABIKA-BALANDA AND LONDON CHARGE TACLAS

KANZA. IN TILS REHEST DELIDERATIONS TONARD WRITING i CONSTITUTION

PROVINCIAL VOICES DESIRINE A LOOSE AFRANGERNT APPEAR SETNOEE TT

SUPPORTERS,

OF ADULTA: HIGH FOR # STRONG CENTRAL GROTRATENT I!

15. LAOS /TIGET-FIRE AND NEUTPALIST MILITASY MESS COURAGEO

LY RICENT SUQUESSES LY CENTEAL AND VORTURN LAOS, ARE CONSIDENINE =5E

1.10:1604

---

## Page 8

og BNEX.

O'ro moexl

U FILE IN ES FILE NO

PIRECTOR

(PÁDE MIQKT)

90407

MIVISA SY TLIENOA 'OYS SUY 20 MOILONRY EVOR L9A ME CONALITORS XAYTA

TEX CAPANILÃTY TO MAXI FRARO CODITARIONES ILAMERN. IUL CONTRUZAC

MTLITAR PIROTZATIONS HAMESSI PATSII LAO SD DEUTRULEST PACTIONS HATS

SIOS MADEEO SI SCRUNCATOES RNCRATOES, SUT IIE PADURI LÃO MAVE

CNDNO XLIS MAIS DUISON Y ONTORYNNY NI INDINLAI ANN CARIAAdIA

PANIES BOSPRATIOUVONE NED PAEITER SOUVYATORA PASORARA TO ANRANEE TOB

FULL PASIET LNO PAITICIPATION II THI COALITION GOTARITOSS. COUP BURONE

SOSTIT CENITENDIO ON PLATS BY RIGHT-VINO NILITAXT FUXRREITA ALLTID UITU

II BUNANIKQII CLAN, CONTINUS TO CIRCULATI I VLETIATS. (/

REXO A

---

