# 104-10413-10298

## Page 1

104-10413-10298

19 June 1969

S0BJ36T:

Renewal of Project LIFEAT for FY 1964

(JULY 63

BE TUNE

forwarded for approval.

1. Ob ectives:

ne objective of this project is to provide.

through & intateral telephone tap operation, in oration

on the activtos or selected Individuals and groupe in

response to both Station needs and Headquarterg requests.

genta:

LLEMBRACE& who normally functions under the

UNCHARITY Project was actively employed in the technical

paise or the operation during the home leave period of

principe. outside case officer, bavid. stad.

b. During the pest project year, 5 indigenous

basehouse keepers were dropped from the project. LIfsUD-14

and LIFEUD 1T.

# married couple, decided on separation and

eventual divorce, thus making the contimuance of their

basehouse keeping duties impossible.

LIFEUD-22 and LIFEUD- 23,

son and mother, occupy a basehouse that was originally

intended to be used fOr LIFEAT but is being used only 1n

another operation.

LIzUD-2y was granted & POA during

the project year but was never recruited.

Three new agents have been employed since the

last project renewal.

Unid i 1s an old friend of

WILSTED's "ho will be used as a basehouse kooper and trans

Intor along with LIFEUD 16 who is hia wife. LIPEUD 25,

the wife of LIFEUD-4 had been included in her husband'g

clearance but has now received her own clearance as a

basehouse keeper.

3. Changes:

Other than the personnel changes described in

paragraph 2

above,

there were no organizational clanges in

the project in the past project year. At this time no

85.127

---

## Page 2

13-00000

EG

290220

organisational changes can be forieen for the coming project

year.

Funds requested for PY 1961 total $83, 908

compared to $99,000 granted for use la 1063.

A sreit part

of the reduction of $15,108 la due to the fact that the

Station progranned no new eguigent purchases for the

coming year.

Intelligence Production:

Although the emphasts of the LIPEAT Project 16

on station operatiom. support, the project through lay 1863

was totally or pertinty zesponsible for 31 positive infor

metion reports of which 19 vero disentanted. Of the

dissenientions, 13 Involved the sctlvities of Juan Jose

AREVARO Bernejo or his followers.

Eltectiveness :

The LIFEAT Project In A model telephone tap

operation.

During the lant project fear tIFFAT continued

to activoly support the operations of the Station by

providing loads and information on selected targets.

In addition to this mission the project provided on a

regular basia valuable information on active Soviet Intelli

Igonce officors, the Pollah and lugoslav offleial Install-

atlons and personnel, selected Cuban personnel (10 lines),

Amerten Camunists In Mexico, lenten lostists and, extle

roups in lerico. In the Intter Stold the Intensive

coverg of

ms pert enlarly

reurting.

It is bolieved that the support provided other

Station operations, the CI/CI information and leads, the

abillty of the nilater. lIfEAt operation to cover sons

tive treets vithout rovenling Station Interent to t

woll justily the empenditure of funds,

time, personnel and

I the security that

6.

Problems:

In the peet yers is in tepeat few years the

createst problems have concerned the security of the operation

and eguipment.

"The current problems conter on two devel-

opmenta:

The Nextco City telephone systen Is continually

being nodernised.

Installation of new underground

cables replacing the old overhead lines reduce necess

to target 11008.

The Telephone Company is keeping

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CHEN

button bon und chock 1

no part raph or the dead one eat buttie Pration,

ched Trojoet Outline.

28.21

Not applierble

B. Interagency coordination:

Not applienble

It to planned thet LyrAT

is in the pit

provide v luable Information en a cantinulis bests on top

promity terruts id t there the rento Clerilo

Intter honld have to ho discontinued for any reuson.

10, Funds:

Dilatone 171910 to 929 Projo ta to M

I1.

emmondstlons:

It ts rarented that Profeet LIPFAT be approve

for IT 1004, 1 July

1938 trounh 80 June 1904, la th

amount of s8s, 808.

SECTET

---

