# 104-10236-10126

## Page 1

104-10236-10126

REPORT COVER SHEET

S-E-CRE-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

JMWAVE

REPORs .0.

UFG-1636

1 Octobor 1962

BINONTING SERICTE

Alice B. CAPMONG

по то.

RIPORTS 0F88640

Pa0d.

ДФФРОУІНИ ОТРОСЕІ

Andrew K. REUTEMAN

GACHCHOUNO DATA ANO COMMENTSE

c'ce co.

GYROSE

Source:

AMBUD-1 obtninod tho information Iron Gerarda

QUESADA a ropresentativo on the CRC who in turn received

& letter from an ANIBAL 1n Cuba. Date of lottor 1e

• 12 September.

We rogret that the names of

• solution could be found for SEBONEK. It would be most

appreciated 1f Headquarters/Reports could manage to

oxpedite the procurement of the list of Soviet flag

vessels avallable in Sh/ Reporte

The information here will also supplement that previously

forwardod under UrG-1622.

Last part of FCI AMBUD-1 from

"PRADO" In letter dated Y September. "PRADO" is a member

of RESCATE in Cuba®

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES DELON NICO NOT BE FILLED IN IS QUOLICAYEO IN ACCOUPAMTIMG REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

IATRA-AGENCY

4 - Headquarters

1 - 00/c

1 - Files

CATHA-AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

NO, OF ENCLOSURES

DEFEMENCES

Ere bet usel

trit

840. PAÇES

PADA

S-E-C-RE-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

APOR

Bod 1467 Con

(R0I

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REFORT

CHADING OF SOURCE: A1 Complaroly relatio.

A: Usvolly esliablo

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT

1, Confirmed by abor independont and reliabio sourcor.

3: Probobly dolon.

Comme be ludged.

S-E-C-RE-T

CONTROLLED DISSEN

COUNTKY

Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Activitios by Foreign

Personnel In the Sagua la

Grande Area

DATE OF REPORT

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

aralle colioble.

E: Net 1011dà1e.

9: Probubly true.

?: Possily ruo, di Doubtful.

UFG 1636

1 October 1962

1% August to 3 September 1962

PLACE &

United States .

DATE ACQ. .

(27 September 1962)

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INCORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

Loading official (C) in an anti-Castro group in exile,

from a member, of an anti-Castro group in extle from &

friond in Cuba. Appraisal of Content: 3

1.

Cuban nationals are not pormitted entry to & camp of about

1,000 Soviets at Ranchoria (N 22-52

srid reference

899/294 AMS Series E7:3922-48

from Sarua la Grande (N

W80-05, grid reference 950/220

AMS Sertes E723, sheet 1184i1) on the road from Sagua la

Grando to Isabela de

Sagua. (N 22-56, " 79-10, grid reference

015/370 AMS Serios E723, sheet 4184I) • Cuban nationals are

also not permitted accoss to an encampment of about 800

Soviets in the Rodrigo area (N 22-11,

w 80-11, grid reference

NR-830/085 ANS Series E723, sheet 418*11) between Quemado

de Gusnes (N 22-47 W 80-15, grid reference NR-170/200

AMS Serles

sheet 4184II) and Santo Domingo (grid

reference NQ-780/975). There are an additional three

Soviet occupied camps

at three locations along the road

42am Say a Carbar Y22 -2 22-32, 5 19-28,

AMS Series E723, sheet

sheet 4383IV); each of these camps has about 800. Soviets..

2.

Cuban nationals are not permitted access to a camp of

about 500 Soviets aböut one half kilometer from the Rio

Sagua at the outskirts of the town of Sagua la Grande®

This last camp has a large quantity of heavy equipment,

which cannot be better described because of the fact that

that a special truck had to preceed the loaded trailer

and cut the electrical wires to allow for the passage

It was generally said in the area that this

cargo included

MIG 15 and MiG 19 aircraft and a new type of

5

3

2

S-H(-H21

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DISTRIBUTION

GRowr

Enciedea tram ai. :

Comagradin: d..

FORM

4201

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-F-C-R-E-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

3.

This military materiel entered Cuba in five Soviet flag

vessels through Isabela de Sagua during the period 17

August to 3 September; two of these were the MISTURIN

It is estimated that there was probably

about 60,000

tong of equipment which was unloaded from

these ships. 3

Field Comment:

1.

Similar endar directed antiaircraft artillery has also

been Installed at Morro Castlo as well as along the

coast from Habana to Matanzas.

member of a counter-revolutionary organization

Cuba has also reported that new radar and assoctated

artillery has been installed at Morro Castele.

2.

The NISTURIN is probably the MICHURIN.

It was not

possible to provide a better name for the SEBONEK.

3.

The original text of the information was not clear

to whethor or not "60 mil" tong were unloaded from

two mentioned ships or from all five ships.

S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTROLLED

DISSEM

---

