# 104-10247-10036

## Page 1

104-10247-10036

MESSAGE FORM IS

Arcate,

ROUTING

5.

88. WH/C/FI/TC

8. 6153

*. 16/MARCH/1965

O NOD

D ALI IN CS FILE NO.

1604a53 ₫

30=

DIRECTOR

DO FLE, 8P, DDP, MOLe, C/WE 3, C/CA 2, 6/21

165-9

15-22 15-2

PRITY

115-4

(ROUTING))

DESERYBAL PBRUMEN AMPHIP

REPA

0799 (IN 22994)

93043

1. APPRECIATE REP. REALIZE FROM PAST TALKS WITH "ROBERTO" AND

FROM CABLE COMMENTS THAT ANNHIP USEFVI. SUGGESTION OF NO CONTACT PER

DIR 92042 STEMMED FROM FACT THAT ORIGINALLY THERE NOT TIME BEFORE ETD

TO MEET AMHIP FOR BRIEF PER

9725 (IN 19836), PLUS/ CONSIDERATIONS

BELOW,

2. OBJECT OF MISPAWN OP CITED DIR 92042 IS PLANT OF RUMOR WITH

CUNSNAFU/19 THAT ODYOKE ACCEPTS ORIGINAL GOALS OF PBRUMEN REVOLUTION AS

SOUND, ACCEPTS FACT THERE SOME CAPABLE PBRUMENS STILL IN HIGH GOVT

POSITIONS TODAY, AND THAT, AFTER OUSTER AMTIUG AND COMMUNISM, ODYOKE

WILLING DEAL WITH THESE OFFICIALS. OSTENSIBLE SOURCE OF RUMOR IS TOP

LEVEL POPRIME BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE CONNECTIONS HIGH CIRCLES ODYORE.

AWHIP HAS MET SUCH WITTING ASSET IN NEW TORK WHO AGREED LET AMWHIP

02

USE HIS NAME IN ORDER LEND CREDENCE IN TALKS WITH LUYSNAFU/19. RUMOR

TO BE DROPPED CASUALLY DURING EXTENDED CONTERSATIONS WITH UNSNAFU/ 19.

VARIATIONS THIS TIEME BEING FED TO OTHER SELECTED PBRUMEN DIPLOMATS.

CUNGNAFU/19 ONLY ONE IN FRANCE. OBJECT OF OP HOPEFULLY TO STIMULATE

PBRUMEN

ACTION AGAINST ANTHUG FROM WITHIN CA RELING CIRCLES.

COOROIMATIME OFBICANS

dentanted

RIPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

attartnesses. .

ASPICER

Cong Me

---

## Page 2

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET/RYBAT

ROUTING

3RIOA

DATE •

D NO INDEE

FILE IN C FLENO.

iROM DIRECTOR

CONf

INO

PAGE THO

02

NO

Come De

93043

3. IDEALLY, UNBVAFU/i9 WILL ACCEPT STORY ON PACE VALUE AND NOT

SUSPECT ODYOKE HAND. TUMEVER) IN EVENT IT RAISES ANY SUSPICIONS RE

AM*HIP, BELIEVE IT PREFERABLE HE STAY GLEAR KUBARK CONTACTS EUROPE

NEVERTEELESS,

THIS TRIP. NEER, IN DEFERENCE

REQUEST, WILL ATTEMPT BRIEF

WITH

A'HIP RE TELEPHONE SECURITY PRIOR DEPARTURE AND AUTHORIZE CONTACT ONLY/

"ROBERTO" IN PARIS. REQUEST MEETINGS HELD TO MINIMUM. FERNETTE, EXPECT I

Or BEGINNING MENT

CONTACT HY ANSHIP LATTER PART THIS WEEK IF

RECEIVES NO WORD TO

CONTRARY BY COB 17 MARCH.

END. OF MESSAGE

NE/4 U3

NE/323

teteran)

F. thalo

THOMAS F.

THISLE

C/HE/INT

Lilt Han

DESHOND FITZGERAL

c/н

RIPRODUCIION AY OINER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITIO.

6188

Capy Na

---

