# 104-10219-10073

## Page 1

104-10219-10073]

BABE SI

SECRET

• & WE 665

MEMORAiDUA FOR: Director

Federal Burcau of Investigation

Attentior:

15. S. J. Papich

SUBJECT.

Bernon FergUSOn MITCELL

Willian Hanilton MARTIN

Kiscellaneous Information Concerning

1.

Roference is made to your communication,

bearing the avove caption, dated 1 May 1964, With

rafarence to an intorview of Di. roacoo suITE to

obtain additional identifying data rogarding "ALLA"

(your 1110 62-106214).

2.

Dr. Maite was located in Trloste and inter-

viewed by one of our

fiold reprasentativos.

Attachad

le a menorandus containing pertinent portiona of tha

report of our representative, entitled "Dr. Roscoe

Baryl White - Intarvier 25 Octobor 1965," in which he

le relarred to as the subject except in specifio instances

in which reforence to made theroin to "Alla."

The Mational Security Agency 1a aiso being

provided a copy of

the above interviow.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

CSCI-316/05060-65

Attachnent

Prepared in CI/SIG

Distribution:

2 - FBI

l • C/CI

3 - C1/SIG (1-STG 356: 1-Mr. Kergel; 1- Mr. Gottschling)

1

- CI/LSN

I - CI/REA

SECRET

*-29

emiss vid.

..rw.

---

## Page 2

SPORET

Attachment to CSCI-316/05060-65

DI. Roscoe Beryl WHITE

Interview 25 October 1965

d.

Sabject arrived in Moscow during the early part

of November 1963 on a ten month exchange fellowship

arranged between the National Academy of Sciences and

the Soviet Academy of Sciencas.

Subjact was assignod to

the Labodev Physica Institute in Moscow and the major

portion of his life while In Moscow revolved around his

work at the Institute or various individuals net through

the Institute.

Subject ate lunch in the Institute lunch

room or cafateria and usually at about the sane time each

day, sonetine between 1:00 and 1:30.

Approximately two

wooks after he had arrived at the Institute, subject and

his colloague,

DI. George REMINGER, who was at tha

Institute on a similar ton month exchango fallowship.

were approached by Vlajimit Anatolovic SOKOLOVSKIY

While waiting in the cafotoria line.

SOKOLOVSKIY, who

Idontified himself as an American,

said that he had hoard

that thoy wore in the Instituto and wantad to noot them.

During

tie larst conversation Subject clains that

SoRotoSKIY told then that he was in face Millian danilton

MARTIN and went on to explain sono of the superficial de

talla surrounding his defection to the Soviot Union in

MARTIN told them that if thoy did not consider him

too tainted ho would delcone tha opportunity of talking

to some Anericans.

He felt that thore were many facets

of his experiances while in the Soviet Union which he would

like to talk about but which he could not discuss with his

Sovlet friends.

aither on this occasion or later. MARTIN

mentioned that Bernon KITCHELL, who had defocted with MARrIs,

was living in Leningrid.

2.

Approximately a week later, Subject not MARTIN agala

in the lunch room.

MIRTIN reported

that following his first

encounter with Subject and Renninger he had been called into

the Party offica at the Instituto.

They apologized to hin

for not having warned him in advance that Subject and

Renninger ware being assigned to the Institute, since they

were certain that Subject would have wanted to avoid then.

They told XARTIN that it was perfectly permissible for him

to talk to them, but that he should definitely not reveal his

SEORET

..is in

---

## Page 3

LORET

true Identlty to than nor shouli na givo thom his address in

Moscod sinco there was the possibllity tuat they had boon

sont to tro soviet Union to assassinato hlia.

Quito natural-

Ly they also wanted to know what Martin had discussod viti

subject und ronniagar. do a Jonaral culo, Stujoct sna

MARTIN in the lunci roas overy week or too for the entlio

period that he vas in Moscow.

On cercall occasions it

appeared that Martly dould avold talking to sujoct. Based

On MARTIN's actions, Subjoct aszused this usually dopended

on who was present in the lunch ror.

Subjoce added at this

point that chele discussions ulth MARTIN vere always da

English.

HiRTIE sade it cofinitoly clear to Subject trat

he was

Intarosted in gutting out of the soviat Unlon. l'e

descrlad life in the USSR as a constant quna with the

soviet officials.

Mantil folt that he lad only been ablo

to hosp his head

above vator whils thore becauso of vis.

knowledgs of Soviet 1a7.

1e axplainad to subject that no

had dovoted a great dual of tino atudyin. soviet lar and

had used his knouledgo to protoct hiasoll. ine sovieta

were froquently at a loss when confrontod with quotations

from tholt om laws in total contlit with notions unici

they vero trying to liposa on inkali.

subject was once

askod to vrico & lottor to MARIll's parente asting thea to

put prassura on the soviets and the Preas to halp In ol

talning nia ralsaso.

6. MARTIN also describad in great dotall to sabject

21la la general vithin tie soviet Union and what tho avar

ajo soviot citizen must face evory day.

It was obvious to

subject that MArtIn Dad boon greatly disillusioned follo

Ing ads arrival in tho Ussa when is found a socduty totally

different fron that ha had anticipatod prior to his doparture

Iron the United States. The Soviets had exarted considar-

able pressiro on suject to participato in various aati-u.3.

radlo prograns or to vrito anti-U.s. artieles. After auca

discussion back and forth, PARTI: ayread to wilte aonoching

If they would pronise to publis: it vichout editing.

ie

wrote unat ha considerad a vary objactive coparison of life

S20041

• родоні

2

---

## Page 4

in the USSR and that in the u.s.

After having submitted

•this article he was never approached again on this topic.

5. Regular contacts between Bubject: REMINGER an

MARTIN continued in the lunch room with general conversations

such as inosa noted above until December or early January

1964. At this point, MARTIN asked Subject 11 no or RENdINGER

would go to the U.s.

Embassy to ask them if there were any

way in which they could assist him in leaving the soviot

•Unton legally or otherwiso.

Subjock noted that RENNINGER

had already contacted the U.S. Ambassy following the firat

meeting with MARTIN to report on their convorsations with

him and the fact that no was in Moscow.

6. Also at about tho same time, probably early January,

Subject was standiny

in the lunch room lino (Subjact

always

refercod to it an the lunch room ratho: than a cafeteria)

when ho saw MARTIN togothor with an attractive young girl

about 20 or 21 yaars of ago.

Thoy stopped to chat for a

moment and MARTIN Introduced Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

Subject enphasized that this was ontlroly casual and that

chols convarsation at this meeting lasted for only a faw

minutes.

Subject

In the lunch

A Pow days or possibly a week lator"lla" had

MARTIN saw

room and mentioned that

found him quite a handoomo individual.

MARTIN identioned

this only in passing and in no way,

as far as subjoct was

concerned, attempted to force "Alla" on Subject.

Subject

was equally impressed with "Alla" and during the following

fow days made several inguirios among his Soviet colloaques

in the Institute.

No one had. anything particular to say

about her other than that she was rather active socially and

had many frlenda in the

Institute.

At this point Subject

did not know where she worked at

the Institute.

7.

somotime during the latter part of January 1964

Subject had his first date with

"Alla."

Subject could not

recall exactly how this was arranged, but he believes that

he met her in the lunch room and asked her to go on a troika

Ilde with him.

This was followed by five or six other dates

with her over the next seven or eight weeks.

They went to a

film once, the Bolshoi onco, the opera once, and restaurants

on two or three occasions.

After a while Subject noticed that she was particularly

Interestad in his Soviet friends and other contacts in the

Fr..

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECReT

Sovlet Union.

for example, on the evening tiey attandod

the solahol, Subjact notlead his friond Willlan (3111)

PARIS, an American exchange student at the Yosco State

University.

Subject had known his at Pelocaton University®

Subjoct said.

"On, there is uild."

Sho larodiately said,

"What did you sa? about SOkOLOVSrly?". In other words, she

knew perfectly weld that SOKOLOVSXIY and Alllian MARTId

vere one and the sane.

She was ouviously eavarrassed and

tried without success

cover up her blunder.. MARTI"

Lator told Subject that "Alla" had callod sin

that evening

to toll hin of ner blunder.

Sio also onco asked Subject

If no wore really going to return to the United States.

This could, of course, be interpreted as a defaction piten.

Subject feels that it was more of a casual personal resark.

9.

According to Subject, "Alla" seenal to him to ba

much too filendly, while at the

frlendly.

sane timo not sincaroly

In PoDIuary, Subject's suspicions had nounted

to a point where he dacided to ask his soviet colleaguo in

che Institute, Ilya ROYzIll (phonatic), it ho

could check

with some of his contacts to dotamine le "Alla" was In

Lact boing usod against him for sone purpose.

Subject

clained that he alroady know at this point trough convora

toas with his soviet colleagues that RoxiI: could check

without bringing 1t to anyone's attoncion.

Shortly afto

mardo, nOYtIN returned to subjoct with the advico

to stop

mooing bor.

He cautioned Subfect that he should not nentloa

to anyone that he nad talked to him and cortainly not to say

anything. Subjact clains that he stopped dating her after

thie point, but did occasionally seo her in the lunch roos.

After Subject stopped soeing hor sha called his at iis

hotel every to or threa days. At no point diù MArTIN

really pual Subject on continuing the relationship

10.

Subjoct described their

relatlonahip.as perfectly

natural for tro young paople Interested in each other.

They seldon discussed anything of importance and nover

discussed his work at the Institute.

Subject went home

with her to her apartment on two separate occasions.

Once

she asked him to spend the night with her, sut he indicated

that he should get back to his notel.

Subtact described her

as possibly a sit more forward sexually than otnerg that he

sad met, but that their rolationship was porfectly noma

and cartainly nothing that could be used against him sine

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

ho was a single man.

The apartsent was actually her mother's,

a one room apartment with

an alcove for the bed and a anall

altchen.

Subject never met for mother and is not sure it

hor father lived In the apartaent with the mother.

Subject

does recall that her nothor had had too husbande althougn no

ald not know if the lirat one had aled or if they had been

divorced.

Subject heard from someone

that her father worked

for the AcB. subject could provide absolutoly no further

Intornation

on this point.

'Alla" never soemod to be pus

Ing tre relationship even

though she dis soem curious about

sone of subject's Irlonds.

Once une mentionod to Subject

that they should not be sean together in the lunch room since

this might be a risk for hor.

11°

Subjoct last saw "Alla" alone just before ho left

the Soviet Union.

and net her by

chance.

They stopped for coffeo and chatted a while.

The

only thing of any significance noted was that sho had been

dismissed fron the laboder Institute and wan thon working

During the surmer,

Subject and ISNINGER again visited Moscon for a book (15

20 JulY 1965).

Thay drovo froa Trieste to Prague and then

on into loacor via traiu.

Arrangements vere made through

Inturist.

They visitod the Lobedov Instituto for a day.

as wall as friands. in Moscow.

Nothing occurred on this

visit

el asy particular note.

Since his roturn, Sunject has

recolved a brief lottor from "Alla" in elamentary Corman,

stating simply that she had heard that he nad boen in Mosco

end that she was sorry that they had not seen each other.

The retum address indicated that she had moved:

cate use sho

Hoskwa N- 36

Protsofusnaja Ul. 15

Korpus 1

Kuarefra 10

Sabject's responses to the questions contained

In the "Personality Data Debriefing Guide" producod the

following additional information:

A.

Basio Biographic Data

(1) Name:' Alla Aleksandrovna KOZLOVA.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

4-g0001

.com

SECRET

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

Nicknanos,

DPOB:

lone other than "Alla."

Subject way not certain but

believss that sio was worn in Moncou

and had alwoys lived thore.

He did

not know hor exact dace of birth. lie.

estinated that it must have been

about

19420

Citizenship:

Soviet.

Iden Documents:

Subject novor saw any

of hor cocurants.

Father:

As notad above, Alla's mother

had had two husbands.

He assumes that one

was Alla's father.

Her father was also

supposedly. working for the jos, accord-

Ing to MARTI:.

Mothar: Subject naver not har.

susjuct

only inew that Alla lived with

her notor

in the apartment in which he had vialtod.

Siblingae.

Subject .does not think that

she has any siblings.

Spouses Hover married.

Education Subject knas that the had had

some spaciallied training altar completing

high school, but does not ballove that sha

avor attendad the Univeralty.

Religions

Athedat.

Sha wore a amall gold

cross given to her by der grandmother,

but,

Subjoct oxplained, that this had no religi

ous meaning.

Languajes

Russian (native)•

she told

Subject once that she planned to learn

Based on the bilef note in German

recently received from jer, she apparently

has made some progress.

She also spoke a

very littlo English.

Subject does not know

if she had ever studied English or where

she might have learned it.

Implorent:

Subject did

not know if she

hađ

ever worked anywhore prior to joining

the Labadev Institute.

Subject did not

it do tot

know her exact position there, though she

was in the First Section or the Party Office.

SECRET

cleo in it dan

---

## Page 8

SECRET

knon he not her just prior to his

departure,

she told him that she had

transferred to the Minlatry of Foreign

Affairs.

(14)

Arrests: No:0 know.

ROY&IN once

mentionad that she had once seen caught

taking noney from the Instituto.

subjcet

had boen told that altuations such as

this were fraquently used to antiat the

cooperation of employees for reporting on

fellod employees, etc.

B. Physical Description

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

Apparant age:

20-21

weight:

ca. 100 lbs.

Height: ca. 5° 4°

Ethnic background: Obviously slavic.

High check bones and black hair.

Build:

slight.

Complexion: Pair.

Hair:

Black. Subject addod that she does

dyo her hair and the natural color could be

anytning.

Eyes:

light colored, elther blue or green.

anall

Face :

round

Lipa:

Medium

Teeth:

Even and in good condition.

Clothes:

Por a Russian girl, cartainly

above averaga.

Subject felt that ahe

dressed above her incoma. lie had no

evidenca, horever. '

Health:

Subject a very athletic person

and always in excollent healt.

A very

bright and lively person.

Special features:

None

C. Curriculua Vitae

Subjoct could provide nothing supplementing that

already given

D.

Personal and Private Data

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

(1)

(2)

• (3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(And)

(12)

(13)

Address:

koscow.

Subject sald that he has

provided the address previously. He also

has it listed in his diary which he loft

with ils mother when he was nons last

Chiistmas See above for current address.

Telsphones

Sho had a tolephone in tho

apartiont. Subject does not rocald the

number.

Apartnant, See

above

Subject considered

the apartment nice by soviet standards.

Subject was not sure if the father lived

there.

Servants: None.

Meals:

Sne usually ate lunch at the Lebedav

Institute.

Dantirt:

Subject recalls that she once vent to

the dentiat while he was in "loscol. He could

not recall any dotalla.

Clube:

Subject was a member of the Xongarol

no l the many cus on

Gorkly. 01.

This was a Club prinarily for

membors of the Konsomol whore they had

avallable many of the popular currant westorn

racords.

Sports:

Theater:

siling, swimming and skating.

Enjoyed the theater.

Vacation:

Every sumnot. Arranged through

the Institute..

Hobbles:

American

Personal frionds.

Jazze

information.."

Subject had no specific

Subject does not beiieve that she

(d4)

(15) .

(16)

Alcohol: Normal.

Casual Sex:

See comment abova.

Transportation: Usually tool: taxis, metro or

the bus.

No Car.

(17)

Financial:

According to Subject, she scened

to spand nonoy faster than sho earned it.

E. Political Data

SEORET

12/024

---

## Page 10

EBRET

Member of the Konsomol. Subject did not kno

1f she held any spacial position, although 53e

did mention once that she had introduced gone

one at a accting, indicating that poasibly she

held sone sort of position.

P. Job datas lothing other than already noted above.

G. Miscellaneous:

Travel:

Sho once visited Poland with a student

group.

13.

In returning to the topic of MARTIN and Subject"s

contact with him, Subject reportad that MARTIN usually did

most of the talking.

ile discussed lito in the Soviot Union and

froquently nis attempta to got a divorce.

(When Subject was in

Moscow In July he leamed that MARrIll had finally roceived his

divorco.)

MARTIN once told Subjact that he was permitted to

recoLve

Time and life magazines so lont as he agrood not

to

shor then to anyona.

Sub fact and RENTINGER once referred to

the ellogationa MArrya and urschili vera honose bald that to had

atated emphatically that this was not true.

some sor probloms, but that he was certainly not a honosemal.

With rogard to his defection, MARTIN said that he had contactad

comeone pelor to his defection.

Subject understood that no

money was Involved and that ArTIl had not. been an in-place agent.

iri.

"."..

---

