# 104-10145-10402

## Page 1

104-10145-10402

SDB

Chrom

Office of Legislative Counsel

23 August 1978

^..

DDCI:

Pardon the form of this comnunication, but it

should get to you this morning early.

Promising negotiations on the Proenza and lexico

history came apart yesterday evelling when slakey came

back on the scene.

We seemed to be on the verge of

agreeing that they would accept a five months period

from the Proenza 201 file (not the ops file) and

sanitized sections of the lexico history, limited to

Blakey and Cornwell only. No junior or other HSCA

stailers. We viewed this as showing that the papers

had nothing to do with the HSCA charter, while showing

good faith at the same time.

Blakey arguesathat he must see the entire lezico

My nastory see swears worth to understand the

station, which he intends to try to evaluate. le also

plans to go to Havana again, where he plans to inter

view proenza, and vants to know everything about her,

etce, in preparation for his meeting with her. We

continue to leel it hasn't anything to do with the

real MISCA crarter.

Blakey made it clear that if he sees it he will

want

stail nembers ilso to see it, the likely

candidates being highly unacceptable for their remark

able inacurity.

Stokes is out of town, but Blakey says he can get

in touch with him. If we have to go throngh Hakey

Stokes' answer doubtless will be "give."

ile seen to have run this course, and now have

the threat of suppoena hangng over us. I propose an

early neeting: Acting DO (perhaps with Chiefs IA Div

ison and CA Staff), veneral Counsel, Legislative Counsel

and rie.

5: 8. Breckinriage

22317

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

