# 104-10093-10043

## Page 1

104-10093-10043

/ QURECTON -

ROM • MEXICO CITY

V.O. ADOP, RF

VR

(SUSPENSE DD/1)

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ONLI

SECRET

1620352

DIR INFO SAGO PARI CITE MEXI 6560

REF. MEXI 5443 (IN

36020)

MEXI SA20 (IN 35080)

16 0c7 63 14 4 1 453

C/S COMMENT: "DISSEMINATION APPLICABI

TO RYBAT ESLAND CABLES.

INTEL (ESLARD)

MIPSATA SOURCE LIFEAT. NO INDEXINE.

5HF0 1630287

DEDORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM-7R9Y MEXICO/GUATEMELAI

FANCE/CHILE SURJECT TRAVEL PLANS OF JUAN DOSE AREVALO PERMEJO

POI 10 TO lA OCT 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 1E COT E3 ADR 2 SOUPCE

1. ON 14 OCTORER 1953 JUAN JODÉ APEVALO REPMEJO, FOPMEP

PRESIDENT OF GUATAMALA

NOW LIVING IN MESACO, SAID THAT HE NOILE

LEAVE MEXICO ON 17 OCTOPER. ON THIS OCCASION ADEVALO DID NOT

SPECIFY WHETHER HE WOULD GO DIRECTLY TO CHILE, OP TO PARIS FIRST.

?. ON 11 OCTOBER AREVALO HAD TOLD FRIENDS THAT HE HAD FECEIVED

AN LIPGENT MESSAGE FROM THE UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC, SCIENTIFIC AND

CALTURAL OPGANIZATION CUNESCOS, AND THAT HE WAS LEAVING FOR CHILE

ON FITHEP 15 OP 17 OCTORER. ON 12 OCTOOTE AREVALO TOLD FEIENCS

THAT VINESCO HAD APPOINTED HIM TO TEACH IN SANTIAGO DE CHILE FOS

ONF YAR AT AN INSTITUTE OF MICHEO LEARNINE. ME SATA IT WAS A

REPRODUCTION EY

00306

---

## Page 2

TO

i DRESTOR

PROM A

ACTION.

INFO

IN 41453

MEX 4 6560

SChOOL

OF MOVE NALISA OPERATEPLRY UNESCO. 'AREVALO SAID HE DID NOT

WANT ANY PUALICITY ABDUT MIS TRIP.

3.

ON 10 OCTORER MPS. AREVALO MAD TOLD A FRIEND THÁT AREVALO

WAS BOING TO PARIS, AUT SHE AND THE FAMILY WOULD MOVE TO SANTIAGO

DE. CHILE. SHE EXFRESSED THE WISH THAT HER HUSBAND COIRD WAVE

REEN APPOINTED TO A UNESCO POST IN MEXICO CITY. SHE SAID HE WOID

TRY TO NEGOTIATE THIS POINT WHEN HE GOT TO PARIS.

"IELD COMENT. IT WAS MEPORTED EARIINA THAT AHEVALÚ MANNEL

TO LEAVE MEXICO FOR PARIS IN MID-OCTORER IN CONNECTION WITH A

POSITICN WITH UNESCO, AREVALO HAD INDICATED HE EXPECTED TO BE

SENT TO CHILE BY UNESCO. EARLIER AREVALO MAD PLANNED TO LEAVE

ME XICO OM 19 OCTOPEP.

5. FIFID DISSEM STATE FRI IENS CINCSO.

SECRET

ONL

I THAN THE CH

OFFICE IS PROMITED

Sorr

02061

---

