# 104-10110-10208

## Page 1

104-10110-10208

25 July 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1. On Friday, 15 July, a telephone call was raceived

from Jerry DROLLER, at which time he requested reservations

be made at the University Court Motel for a meeting of Cubans

that had previously been scheduled.

At that time a reserva-

tion was expressed to DROLLoR as to the advisabillty of the

selection inasmuch as during the previous week a considerable

amount of Cubans were known to have been utilizing the premises.

These Cubans were connected with the o1l companies, the majority

married to Americans who had been forced to leave Cuba as a

result of the expropriation of the refineries by CASIRO. Inas-

much as DROLLER was not planning to meet at this time members of

the Frente group and stated the same, he stated this would be

the last time he planned to use this

site as a meeting place.

A reservation was subsequently made for DROLLER under allas by

a member of the offioe staff using the ficticious name Paula

ROSS, without leaving a contact address or phone number.

2:

Monday evening DROITER arrived in the Miami area and

was taken to the apartment-hotel of the writer where he

met with various member of the office for a briefing, and

subsequently was dropped off at the University Court Motel at

2:30 a.m. by Willlam KENT, who proceeded there via a circultous

route.

Telephone communication was maintained by the office

witn DROLLER during the meetings he transacted that day, and

calls were received from him on the office unlisted number,

setting up and changing a luncheon meeting.

3.

On 19 July it was prearranged that DROLLER would

remain

at an inconspicuous place at the motel at 1345 hours

and we would drive by and park, at which time he joined

the

writer and proceeded to a Howard Johnson restaurant located.

on Dixle Highway approximately a mile from the motel.

The

luncheon was attended by WillIam KENT, DROLLER, and

the

wIlter, and lasted approximately one hour.

4. Shortly prior to the end of the luncheon this group

was joined by Bernie REICHHARDT as a result of previous arrange

ments made by he and DROLLER, and who subsequently dropped

DROLLER off in the vicinity of the motel.

Background is

RETURN TO CI

Conground Use Only

DO M MArCE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

* :

Tellingene

Subsequently, the writer departed from Miami on

National Alriines flight 201 enroute to Washington on the same

plane as DROLLER, but no contact was made with DROLLER on the

plane due to the

fact acquaintances of the writer made 1t

unfeasible.

writer explained to this group that he was

encoute to Johns Hopkins Hospital for medical treatment. He

then stayed in the Washington airport until all his friends

departed, thenwalked to the parking lot where DROLLER had

walted and the latter took him to the Hotel Washington and

remained there until approximately 12:30.

RJO/pr

GES2E7

---

