# 104-10125-10178

## Page 1

104-10125-10178

TAk. 10056

#= missing

20902.

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

UNiT. ? STATES DEPARTMENT OF SUS.ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

THE Box 56

#2.

37pp

ase Refer to

New Orleans,

LouisIana

August

23,

1961

Title

Character

Reference

SOUTHERN CONFERENCE EDUCATICNAI

FUND., INC.

INTERNAL SECURILY - C;

INTERNAL' SECURITY ACT CR 1950

Report of SA ERNEST C.

WALL, JR., NEW ORLEANS, 8/23/61.

All sources (except any listed below) used

In referenced communication have furnished rellable

information In the past.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

58/94

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL (NAR)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is Ioanedto

your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

py foa

Report of

Dates

File Number

UNÍ. D STATES DEPARTMENT OF J!.

ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COSEIDENTIAL

.-.OSI,

Barkadalo AFB, Louisiat

(RY)

- Go 22g

Fort San Hoaston,

Toxad

(Rн) .

I = ONI, 8th Naval District, Now

Orleans, Lao (Ru):

SA Ernest C. JaIl

AUGUST

F 23, 1961;

10 100-759, 549110 1100-20333

SOUTHERN COLFERENCE FICATIONAS FUND

Ofices New Orleans

INC•

• REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK•TASK FORCE

ON

38/94

RELEASE IN FULL

Conder

INTERKAN SECURITI - C;

INTERNAL SECUBITT ACT OF 1950

RELEASE IN PÄRT

Synoptisa

TOTAL DENIAL (MAR)

SOUTHER CONPERENCE ENUCATION FIND, ANC. (SCEr)

continues to

maintain headquartera at 822 Perdido Street, New Orloans, La-;

vith editorial officas at 4103 Virginia Avenue, Loniaville, Ky.

"The Souther, Patriot," officini publication, publlahed at

dashville,

Tennessee.

Checking account

balance as 01'7/27/61

vas $17,882•13.. Additional linarcial Information set forth.

Lesbars attending Bosrd of DiIsctors nesting,

Atlanta, Georgia,

1/29/61 set forth, as well as resulta ot neating.

SCAF has. been

active In distributing potition for Executive Clonency Io.

CARL BRADEN and FRANK WILKINSON; has proposed a student project

to eliminate segregation; bas distributed Ilterature attacking

feçort of florida Logislative Invaatigatiud Conmittoo, haa.or

supported student non-violent coordinating comittes; has

expressed Interest: In elimination o1 segregation In exployment

opportunities, and has supported Nesro votars In Fayatta and

Haywood Counties, Tennonite. List of ofticers, members oI

Board of Directors, Adrinory Comittes, and Medical Advisory

Conmittee set forth. NYCA-JAC rade payment 01 $1209. 32 50

'SCEF.

DOMBROTSKI listed as subscriber to Freedomaya.

CCDBR

reportedly solicitad support for Exscutive Clemeney appeal for

WILKINSON and BRADEN:

CP oificial, Baltimore, Heryland, at!

CP meeting stated JOINS HOPKINS groups aponsoring appearance

Of WILKINSON and BRADKN to spok agalnst ECUA urging 211 CP

members to attand. Subscription

I1st of Southern News Letter

turned'over to "The Southern ratrlot."

CONPIDENTIAI

This dorumain contains nilther recommendatlons nor conclutions of eny kind. I ls the property of she FBl, and is a loon to your opaRdy!

*. I

It and /or lis confents are nol lo be distributed outside your opency.

I0-0 94028-11

---

## Page 5

NO #100-759

DETAILS:

I• ORIGIN AND GENTRAL ACTIVITILS

(A) Orgarization

(1) Headquarters

"Ta Southerr PatE104

• the official moseston

In Its Issue, of. Jaze TesT,

Volume 18,

the busines offices as Suite 404, 822 Perdid Street,

Orleans, Louisiana, and the editorial officer as 1103

Virginta Avenue, Louisville 11, Kentucky.

This issuo also listed the office of publication

as 150 - 10th Avenu,

North, Nashville, Tonnesses, and e

flected that "The Southern Patriot" 1s pablished monthly

excopt los the months of July and August "

On August 4, 1961, SA ERNEST C. MALL,

JR.g

personally observed that the SCIF continues to maintain

offices in

Suite 404,

822 Ferdido St, New Orleans, LoUislans

(2) Finances

= 2

---

## Page 6

"D.102 (Ror.

1-25-60)

ERAL BUREAU OF INVES IGALIUN

Date

JuLy To. 1981

• Conlidential Interst NO T-1, a Nor Orless business

persOn, "hO kaS Bose KENNIaign D the SOUTHERY CONTERENCE

EDUCATIONAL FUND, INC. (SCIT;, R5Y-80d 28 1012ENS:

Sarne accised that tho bank balanco in tho &&c@unt

02 FRO SOUTHERN CONFERENCI LICATIQNAL FUXD AN OL JUnO 30,

1931, нав $12, 289.62.

ing disbursenents, in the.

the SOUTHER CONTERINCE

CHECK #

• 3465

DAYE

5/3/61

PAYSE

JES. Ella

Baker

AMOUNT

$103.48

STATED PURPOSE

Travelling

3480

5/37/61

X09S21

84,83

Braden and

Wilkinson Pik

3503

6/1/61

3483

5/17/61

Mildred C..

20.73

ROby

WAZIZAN HOWARD

166.42

Salary

Balary, - Hay

3482

350€

5/77/8261

6/1161

8X5091

Reb1s0H1tz

& Boudin

1520 SR2

BRADEN

saLary o day

A CALIFORNIA

500.00

→ Brado?

6a80

3505

6/1/61

Studont

Nonviolent

Coordinating

Committee

250.00

3504

6/1/61

282.72

Travelling

DONTOWELS A GEORGIA.

expense

pontage due®

etc.

patty 8

at

File #

6/30/61

New Orleans,

Loulalam

200-739

_ Date dictated

SA ERNEST C. WAITED JR.I

Sla document containe nolther recommendations nos conclusions of the FBI. It de the property of the fal

our agoncy, ll and ile contante are not to be distributed outalde your agency.

3 0

7/3/61

5/20/69

---

## Page 7

NO 100-759

Chock #

3498

3488°

3500

3510'

3515

Dato

5/30/81

Faya8

The Winkloy

Plaza Fotel;

Endorssent

Pay to the

order of the Trust Co.

of Georgia, Atlanta,

, Ga.

3/17/61

Dorothy

ohnson

5/30/61

. Anne Braden

6/2/61

6/15/61

1700000.

Tracy O'Nedl

Btatod Parpose

53.70

3512

3517

3527

3532

3520

3526

6/6/67

6/15/61

6/21/61

6/21/61

6/21/61

6/21/61

Anne Bradan

Henriotte

Goodloe

C.

Wheelor

Norwood

Rabinowitz

& Boudin

H11I1aм F.

Meliab

written across

one end of

Lace of checke

48•50

Salary.

527.82 • Expense Account

35:00

Gifte

# 9.64

Reprints

Braden.

60.00

223.00 Expense

acceunt

Lilie.

266.95

Salary

10.00 GlIt

500.00

Braien Defense

466.42

Salar

---

## Page 8

HO 100-759

This source 13 no longer in posseusion of the

basic docurenta of which this Injoration regarding

disbursemits made by the SCIr was obtalned.

The above information can only be mado available

through the issuance of a subpoena duces tecus, directed

tO NI. JOHN SHRA, Vice-President and Auditor of the Mitrey

National Bank, New Orleana, Louisiana.

5

---

## Page 9

#-303(90881-29-808

ERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date -

8/20/61

'Confidatial Infuriant NO I-1, a Now Orleans 5u5:5093.

person, who has ome knowleige of the SOUTHERN CONFERENCE

RDUCATIONAL, FUND, INC. (SCHP), advised as fOllows:

Source advioad that the bank balsaco da the

account of the southors Conlorors Educat1o1a1 Fund sa o1

July 27, 1981 was $17,892.1i3.

This source furnished the following Informstion

concerning

Conference

are the assaunt es the southern

DATE

PAYEE

AKOUNT

STATED PURPOSE

3524

6/21/81

James'A.

$51% 60

Donbrowsk

3509

6/2/61

Mars Estello.

$

60.00

Reception

refundstravel

3531

3525

3588

3534

3537

3533

3542

3543

6/21/61

Operation

Freedon

Anno Braden

$100.00

GILt

6/21/61

7/7/81.

.91

$530.40

$417.85

8818TY

Balance t Braden.

Case-erpense

6/30/61

7/1/61

Rabimowit

& Boudin

F11118N H.

24. 36

Molish

Student Mandalast $250,00

Coordinating.

→ Committee

Grant

6/30/61

7/21/61

Anne Braden

5411. 38

$366.95

Expense account

Salary

7/21/61

Henrietta C.

Goodlod

Dorothy Johnson

$ 48.50

Salary

On

7/31/610-

New Orleans, Louisians

_ File # NO 108-759

SA ERNEST C. WALL, JR./ Jab

_ Dato dletated.

8/4/61

Tala documost contains neither pocommendalion nor conclunions ol the FBI. Il la the property of the FBI

your agancy, lt end lla contonio are not lo ba diatributed outalde your agency.

---

## Page 10

NO 100-759/J83

ThO HUNTSD ASISSI PESE ON JIIA 2, 1901, ME

HENRISTTA C. GOQILIS PITUIRINI ITO NONTY COASTA ILIDI

303708 asd 302709 10 the atonat o1 9250.00 Bach payablo

to the Eras savings and loas Aaroelstion, Dusa, North

This aourco is no louger In possansion ot the badio

docente fron thich this Intoration rogariinz diaburassenta

ando by the scar vas obtainod.

The shovo Information can only ba nedo avallable

through tha insusnoo of s subroens duces tocu directed

tO MT. JOHN SHE, Y100-Prosident and Auditor, Whitney

National Bank, Mon Orleans, Ioriniana.

---

## Page 11

NO 160-759

aust 98

Ut111tY 1228, 9006108, 316, 24771195 AIN 7X5991 ALADE

OIIICE ENTITEES.

(BY GET

Axt141t103

Confidontial InIonat NO T-2, & NsT OrIena

busiens person, who has ane knowledge

COMBATIVE

the

sctivities or the SCIT, sure avallable on July 18, 1961,

a copy of the minutos 01 th

SChE Board or minerto

urg held at the insted li rebel

GEDELE

Apist 29

Masan restaura

nantine

JOIN AX BROSE, DE.

CHARTES

ENT ALASHOE

JOSEPHINE

Alama; 11g

BoNo Di

PLENIS

hurt

Also prozent

secrataries and 9d10r2,

Kantuch

manager,

Louisiana,

WILLIAM HORARD MELIST,

ting the Men Sork Conuittoo' Friands or

• the scat,

41L STUARL

MenDer of the SCar Haricory

committee, Missouri.

Others prosent

saTe tales

ISOBEL H

FALTER,

CERN EDIA

Confidential Icforuant

NO T-12 aruised on Noven-

ber 16, 1959, that ISORI CERNEY had roct? alle

contact with race ?.

Cho 1alo; Alto SP Ciub

that she and her muzband,

$110. 09

10 CP dues.

The Minutes ratlact that Rev. WILLIAy h. MELISE

gave a report on the progress being mide by the Nos fork

Committos in raining

Tands for the SCEF, Muring which ta

explainad that in his opinion his fork mes tro lold,

sisting of tund ra161ng and stacation.

Ho reported that his

work consinted mostly of saving trious of tha son plan

and hold guill group meetings in

Thel? 10153, at which tha

---

## Page 12

14-00000

NO 100-759

events of the south and nosts »I the SCle tere presented.

The minatos inrthor reflected that CArL BRADEN

reported on his rusd-ralaing effort in Chicego ann reported

that apronimtoly 14,000 Fas ralaod, which vas disappoluting,

but he trought ho had nade considerable prossess tu public

relations.

SCEF SPASURINE COMMITTEE iN CALIFORNIA

The minutes reflect that lirs. AiNt BRADEY reported

on her trip to California during February, at which tire

1s supposted by a troccoring comittee headed by 318ng2

ITS. RIGIVASLONNON

sis coordinstor o tho sorting

commIttee in' fm southor California ares.

reported that during hor ulait, & working sounitter vaa

establisted in Tortinen Calliornia with ME. DECOYZRUHAT

as coordinator.

was soporten that, about o,00n warfarest

during the trip.

The ainutes sies farlect that CARt BRADEN

roported on field nork in Florida and Texas. Bo reported

that considorable progresa had been sade in Florida da the

statonide legislative project, which in dusigued to

organize people throughout the state to rock in a coordinated

way against logialation astrinental to civil rights and

civil libertios, and as coon as possible to fork in a

positive way for favorable legislation.

BRADEN reported that a resident comitica is

functioning in the Stato Capital to watch the legialature

and people throughout the state and to serve as coordinators

In their own areas to ask local citizens and groupe to act

on Information provided then by the committee in the

stato capital..

BRADEN reported that as & rasult dr 3i

work on this project, he vas subpoenass before the

Florida Legislative

Investigating Corittes, out upon his

appearance beiore the committee his subponna was withdrawn

when it becano clear he muld not cooporate with the comittee.

BRADEN roported that in Texas, some groundrork had boon laid,

for the beginning of

slatlar legislative activity, but

that this was in' an enbryonic state and its development

would probably be delayod becauze of his panding inprisonment.

---

## Page 13

TO 100-759

MYS. ANNE BRADEN AN Callod upon to add to

BRADEN' a report 01 cot1vItien In Finsids. Sha contrarod

that the florida legialatire action mojost stould be

considered a pilot projact, and an soon an posaible.:

sintlar srojects should ba started in other. statez.

stated that bacause of r. BRADEN'& Inpariing Iaprisoment,

rs. HIENBAKIR had begn sent by the scar to bolp the:!

Florida logislativa action projoct on & part tino basie.

The nintes further reflect that MI. FRANK WILKINSON

was cared upon to report On Als FOrk 10r C11411-0100:

no gave & very noving account o the developent of air.

oan interest in civil liberties.

MILKINSON stated :that he

bocano comalttad to the cruse of the first Amendmentiand .

01v1l Ilbertles alter he sin lcCarthyis and the Mltch: Hurt

destroy the pablic housing program In Ios, Angeles:" He-

reported that ho had boosian ofiicial of the Public

Housiig Authority. in Loa Angolea and that plaus bad Mesa

maão to make los Angelon tho first city in Anarica: 1: 3o of

sluns until the progran was destroyed by the Hitch -Eunty

and since that time ho has devoted hinsold completely

to iwork to restore the Bill of Rightse:

The minutes roflect that during the seaalous,

discussion was hold on the proposed white indent project

which had been approvod at the Fall Board of Direstors

mooting, which project called for subsidizing a student

to. work fall-tine si contacting uhite students: In the South

and attempting: to.atiralate.nore.of then. to join with Negro

students in action for integration.

The subsidized person

would work indopendently. of the SCIF, but in close associa-

tion: with the student: non-violent coordinating: connittee,

which coordinates the student Integration novanent aur acher

Jouth groups.

According to the minutes; Mr. EDWARD KING, JBe

endorsed the project and would cooperate to nake it a' succens.

KING presented to

the Board the pressing financial probleuis

01 the SNCC In carrying on its progran,

notion was passed that a grant of $1, 000 to be paid a1

the rate of $250.00 a month for four months be made

directly to the SNCC for their use as they saw fite, KING

---

## Page 14

2O.100-759

requested the heln on tre SCEP in making controts and

arranging lund raising ailairs for the SNCC II other

The hintes reflect that Dr. DOXBROWSKI discuased

the question of how the sCEr night help in the New Orleans

Integration situations

He proposed that the schr purchase

brlel TV time, pointing out that the New Orleans TV

stations would not soil time for & controversial program

under ordinary circunstances, but 1? a progras vas 14

connection with a rellgions or political progras, time 1s

available and can be used lor. educational murposes on the

question of integration. He proposed that such TV sime

conld be used to present both white and Negro citizens

at the sane time, taking s stand for integration.

DI. DOMBROWSKI réquested authorization to frocesd

with such a plan if the noney could be raised sud the

opportunity presented itsell' in New Orleans, which

authorization was approves by the Board.

DI. DOMBRONSKI reported to the Board

that a

friend of the BRADENS, MrS. DOROTHY JOHNSON, war Willing

to live with the BRADENs and help Mrs. BRADEN with

secretarial work and child care, enabling hrs. BRADEN

to Carry on her worl while BRADEN 15 la jail, fOr rODu

approved by the Board.

During the neeting it was surrested that the

Fall Board of Directors nooting be held in Atlanta

In either late October or early Novenber, the exact date

to be set by the Executive Director.

Resolutions adopted by the Board have previously

•been reported and will not be included in this roport.

---

## Page 15

NO 100-759

Cont loutin, Irasst 10 I-L aisO TuSs avaLlable

on July 18, 1951, a COrT DI s mmorandm iatod June 2,

1961 IIAY, JIN DOERONSKI to nectars of the Board of

Directorag

adulsing that th5 Fal: Board 0? Dirastors neetlig

had beal set for Stuzday, actober 28.

pointed out that 1s as desire? that this sooting b

held at a plice maore it would by porcible for the antima

board to get togother nithoubdistrinisation la tho mastes

eating and living accommodations.

Due possability sugsested

which had been

proposed by Board senDes JING FInCh GUILD 0I RichnoId.

Tue nevorandu requested the racipient to advisa rasther

they could or could not attend the Buard of Directors neeting

on Cotobar 28 11 hold at Milliamsbias, Ylaganla, Gid to

make any suggsation as to ar attoriate location.

(2)

hct5v:1105

14 3h0

SCsT

CARL BRADEL

FITKINSON

Confidentlul Intrina: 10 I-2 rade prallable on

July 18, 1981; & COPT 0L I SONS 121025e

type concunication

of the Sar dated June 14, 1361, wici stated that DIe

HERMAN E

Mone of tho Baton's

Lead ag +perTS 01 1800 191414913

DENNEDY tO ITOS CIRL ERADES IION DEINOU

Tar paled to Residant

so that ha night ba restorato his vors of upholding

constitutional'rights in the luce ration struggle.

Ta1s

communication reflected that Di. Lot's appool, rach was

embodied in a lottor which man lilad with the Fresldent

along witk BRADEN'E OfA rOqUeSt IN ClAneNCY. II E21a

Letter,

LONG expressed the opinion that in Jarze mezsure

the difficultles wich cArL BriDe. laces pre& testimony

to the effectiveness of his work for the sche in build

the kind of. Llberal and enlightered supPOrt apOrE 74,-

and white connittee loaders of the south for the principle

involved in the clinination of state Inpoded racial

segregation. The comunication reported that hundrede

of citizens throughout the nation bad foon triting letters

and signing petitions to FIDoiNent KENEdY, supporting

Confidentis IzozInt NO T-1 11de s22111hIs

or August 18, 19f1, a copy of a SCar letter dated July 19,

1961, which stated thai on bay 1, CARL PRIDEN and FRANK

• 12 c

infial

---

## Page 16

14-00000

299 #100-759

WILKINSON tent to prison to Dogla a one-yer sectanco for

contensE o? the Hours us-AnsTicaL ACtivitlos Coralttoo.

The lettar cisted that abor: 1500 renatures Iron 47 states

had been obtained on the patition for Exacuuire Clemezcy.

The lotter stated that 1t 5a3 plannod to prin the petition

long WIth Eone 100 selected signatursa, and the petition

United States

The lotter solicitod the signaturo of the

recipient.

Confidentisl Irfomant NO I-2 nade aralizble on

August 18, 1951, a cory of a nevs relesaed type communication

Of the SOUTHERN

COXTEREZCE MUCATIONAL FIED,

INC. g

August 4, 1e6, which raported thIs FRAME WILKINSON of Los

Angeles suriug

that nock 1ilod his mrsonal request tor

Executive Clenancy Fith PreSidentwO E, KaradY to Mosten

Committee.

The consumication reported tast WILKINSON'

petitios for cleancy vas based on the contention that his

imprisonent 1s punishneat

for his actirities In

criticizing

the Committee und in organising opposition to 15.

This Intersture rommal that the apperle on.

BRADEN and WILKINSO fOr Executlvo Clenaacy gas belay

supported by Lousuas o? Anorican clIInans Tho had written

personal lettere

to the whito house or signed potitions

in their bohall. 'Áccording to this comunication, the cane

had attracted the attention of outstanding leaders in the

X1old of civil rights end civil llborties wao had nalutained

that they were upholding the highest principles of Americaniu

In refusing to cooperate mith the un-Anerican Activitien

Conmittee®

NO T-2 made svailable on August 13,

1981, 2 COpy Of

a news rolerse typo communication fron the CARL BRADEN

clemency appoal coumitte, walch was being distributed by

the SCIE•

This commication reflacted that a cologation

of Soutbern integration leadars would,

or that date,

take petitions signed by over 1800 loaders 1a the delo

of teas rights, representing all of the fifty stares of

the United States,

to Frostiant XENNEDY, a3klng him to

ITAS CARLi BRADEN Of Loulavillo, Kentucky.

---

## Page 17

NO.100-759

THE S.C.F.F

The communication rexcried that the

for the delegation of (Dr. RALPH ARENATHY te Ch

WYATT LAWALKER of Atlanta Hand other members of the dele

gation were the Rev.

FRED L. SHUTTLESHORTH, leader of the

cixit rights movement in Birminghaz, Alabama, JAVES MCBRIDE

DABBS, South Carolina author, Dr. JAMES A. DOMBROWSKI,

Executive Director,

SCEF, New Orleans, Bisher ALLOVE.:

Baltinore Methodist Church, Bishop Coy

MABARK TUCKER,

Louisville, Kentucky, the Rey, MURRAYACOX CURaTE

Portangiltin

Virginia, Prof. OSCAR

ChanaL HiT

North

Carol nas

CARL

CHITAYLOR ConsuLtan

An fura

Develomment,

Arlington.

Virginia, and IH. HArE

Newport

News

virginia

I HA

This communication contalied a list of the inltial

alonencranetition which is

Jorth as

"The Rev WILLIAM B.

ABBOT, Norfolki

Va.; the

Rev • RAMPH Di

ABERNATHY, MontgomerY Ala. ; ISARAH

PATTON BOYLE,

Charlottestles

Va. ; LCARL PA BRANNIN

MCBRIDE DABBS, hayesvILle, Do

the Rov.

ELLATOR Raleigh

CLARENG

MARTIN LUTHER

the Uter. JAMES MORE ERLANSON

Bishop EDGAR AZ LOVE,

Bait more,

S Nashull

Ma.; | DORCAS

ALESMORTH

• Fla•; BIshop C.

EWBANS TUCKER,

oulsville,

Tallahas see The Rev. WYATT TEE

WALKER,

AtlantaleGa.; AUBREY W. WILLIAMS, MOntgOmerY,

Ala.; MARION A WRIGET, LInville Falls N.

"ADDITIONAL SIGNERS

(Partial Liat)

"ALABAMA: Dr.

the Rev.

GOMILLION the Rev. J. E. TOWRY;

HERBERT OLIVER

ALASKA:

CARLSON. President Fisherman'e

Con

ank smith; the Rev. John cs

- 14 m

ALE

nar.

5/20/6

---

## Page 18

NO 100-759

"ARIZONA:

PROL. JAMIES A

Proestx, Verorial Bosp1t21

ARKANSAS, RALPACREGIR, author; the aert

ENNIS,

Erupta,

HARREN LEE

CALIFORNIA:

W. INTERRY; CARLTON, BO

MrS. REGINALD D. CONSON; ALEXANDER

GUY KUEP

COLORADO:

DOROTE ROWARD, social vorker; PrOf. F. D.

RAKIN Si

CONNECTICUT: "KATESYLE, PrItAr; NAMos

Federation; PrOf, MALCOL

DELAWARE!

KUCR FAULTROCK, past FInnient, Catiolle

Intorracia Council of Dols.;

LOUIS Is

ReDDING, attorney; DONALTEPHENS,

éducator.

DISTRICT

FLORIDA!

OF

COLUMBIA: IRVING BRANT, author and saitor:

HERBERT

MARSHALS,

K.D., fomer prosidont,

National Medical Assoc.;

Blshop H. W.

MATTERINS

retired; Bishop FRANK MADISON RAID.

JOHN MY

COE,

Florida Voters League; the Ret

THEODORE GIBSON; HENRI JOKE; ERNEST TACKSON,

H. DANTELALAND, OXAC.

di.t

Creater Miani Urban Leaguo; PrOl. HA

GEORGIA:

BURI WACKBURN,

former siate wolfare director,

State

of Ceorgla; the Rey.

EDVARD A

ACAHI;

I JOHN

League; Bistop se

president.

Georela Voters

ILIGREENE,

WILKINS

Sro, JOSEpHINE

HAWAIIS

HARBIE!

BONSIOG,

attornay

• 15 ∞

---

## Page 19

NO 100-759

"IDAHO: 5.

ILLINOIS:

SOLOMON

BOXIET;

tHe REY. BOYARD SCHOUR;

SIGNED

KeTiTiON

FOR

INDIANA:

PrOf. MONASTBARTON; ANDRISCHULZE,

BEC, Luthoran Huan Relations Associstion

of America;

ВідНО А. И НомАсК

Аво 1971°

exac.

IOWA:

The Ruy JANTA

AAN; the seT

PrOI. HOWARD

ARSONS; Profe Co 1y

KANSAS

The

Ber. PAuL W.

chaiman, Manhattan Connittes on Ewe

Relations.

KENTUCKY®

DI. JOHN'S

DI. LEMIS

C

Prof.

FLAF.VEY

MBERS; PrOf.

SATIR; FRANS

WEBSTER®

FOULE;

REEVES;

NUEY, JR.;

LQUISIANA

The Rev• SAMUEI

JORDAN;

HDHIN J

Board; the

BENJAMIN E

RANDY;

Bishop FREDERICK D

(BOUT™

New Orleans. NAACP

ALBER

ORLANDO;

MITH

MAINE:

ROBERT

ENDERSON; JACOB

BERTRAM D

SCOTT; the Rev!

PrOf. BURTON FO

THROCKVORTON, JR.

MARTIALS DO DAR SEANE

~ MASSACHUSETTS:

ast. dean,

Angerat Collage,

OSCAR

HANDLIN;

Jo TIL PARSONS;

presidont,

Ashorot, Collega sudenta

forfacial

Equallty; the Rev. DANIEL

WHITSETT®

• 16.

---

## Page 20

NO: 100759

DIAVEN CLEMENCY

"MICHIGAN PrOf, RUSSELE BROADHEAD! the RAY. HANKY HIM

GRANT L

HAROLD CRANEFIELD, laborawyer

"GUY NUN, brosscaster: Mis ROSA,PARKS;

at the Southy LAWRENCE

BOSS A

MINNESOTA:

BIRDDE

BIRKELAND: PATRICK J

Student Action for Human

Rights

MISSISSIPPI, JAMES

GILLIAM; Wo An

XIONES,

presidenta

Lauderdale County Donodratie Club;- JOHN. Ga

ELCHOR ;

the Rev: 84212

prestient.

STANTON, preäident,

Laridlan

MISSOURI&

Prof,

Prof

OLIVER

CLYDE

THEN tHE HEY ALINIS.

MONTANA

RONALD

HOLTZE Ay N

WANKEL

NEBRASKA g

Prof,

FREDSRICK K

BEUTEL; PrOf, DAVIDICRONON;

LEON A

LAYLSHORTH

NEVADA &

NSH. HAM

LIREs GRENVILLENSLARK, IsWer and

NaY JERSEY; PrO!, STRINGYELLOWAnHE JOMASTARDIL

Patersen Corniaston on Human Relations;

NEY MEXICO:

WITTE

PAU

BINNER: MARTRA HANNS; the Rev, Ja

EVENS,

BALDWINE ALGERNON LAXBLACK; JANE M

BOHER.

University: Bishop WILLIAM CY BROWNE CORDON R.

CAREY: OSSIE

GEISMAR; F®

ets

27 t

---

## Page 21

NO 100-759

ZIN; FRED

MIRCHASI; J.

illl

SAw TOrk CIty PIBILITE

COMATION; CARELANCILLIANS/ PROTe REINBOLD

NIEBI

VISA

GLENN E

• DAVID BAX

So LANS.

NORTE, CABOLIA: DISH GRAD HIS CORGE ANAIN

BrieD Man deaL B000993

Сол • і

Prof,

OSCAR B. RICE; CLOSUS

NORIE DAKOTA:

The reY.

PrOf:

• ROBERT

PHYLLIP

SOUL CON:

OLPE; DI• RALPH

ILSON,

PIMPLIN;

OKLAHOMA R

CHARLES NATI

•I Teachers; JAdES y

writer.

OREGON:

PrOL. LESTER RIRDENDALE.

and 4rge 31

PENNSYLVANIA: KATHARINE M

Interuate

CHAMBERLIN;

NOBERT W

Cosmittee

GEORGE N.

VARNED, 4330C. 5860?

¿2as8d01g

waR, donaulty worker,

24y0rk

"I HIATE

SLACKBUR:,

CItizens

On PubIle Education,

TILBERSON,

exaco dif Pulladalphia;

Pittsburgh Methodist

. CONCErnS; HILDRED

MARIORT NO STECES

TRAWLINS,

Carnittee on race

Rolations,

Socipty of Friends;

RHODES,

OBERTS

WASHINGTON

= 18 *

Char

410/03

---

## Page 22

CLEMENCY

NO 100-759

"BHODE ISLAND:

HARVE

ASISONS

SOUTE CAROLINA: JARTHUR +°

PLOTESTEL CAZAL

AULRRY; MANCY A.

CALHOUN, SOCOlOriat; JOEN BALT

Leoreey; t90I. Chapos +

SINKINS; TIEN B

SOUTE DATOTA: APTOI. LINCOLI

MARKER; PAULIE OIT; CHARLES 1.

TENNESSE

MARION

BARRE, student leader; the Ber. ESyRY C.

SUNTOR;

* Eldre Cloy Counespan VASHINGIO ITa

JI.; BORE

Memphis MACP Youth orannitatut; ChoRGE

prestiont,

Hayund Chunty Carne & Foliara League;

WYATTE, he BeY. R.

AOTHUR N.

SONES

HUGH

PROUDPODT,

Collego;

ROLLINS, Urield dre regionaL

OIIICo, Dept. I Churco & Sociaty, Unitad Brasbyto:

rlan Church; CDELEXANDERS, 0142C1+ 18700t

,County Clulo & Helfare Loague.

TEXAS!

Re.

A:

CHILDERS; FRANKLIN

JAVIDSON, CralIaLe Students

Ior direct clos, Universit of ToXIe; teReY.

SHERFOOD S

DAVIS; A. FRANK COBIS; RONNIE SUGGER.

yOuT.:

/Univeraity of Toxic; Prof. HARRY

ROBERT

CH

the her.

JAMES AYLOR; CARTER HESLEY; Ad

JURER, preziiont,

Negro

Chaaber of Comerce, Horatou

The Rev. C. SUPIE

VERMONT:

LADO; NORMAN RA

XLIAMS; WILIIAX

JARITTE, umber Vernont Houze of RepresantstiVoS®

VIRGINIA:

WILMA STRAUSA, EXANDER; tAR

RETAW. CARROL

PROL. PRANA

CINGER; HARRIZTRIZGERALD,

the Rey.

Lo FRANCIS

Christian

Prigee Hirasd County

JUENDERSON, atate board member,

MAACP and Auxau

3190.

---

## Page 23

NO, 100-759

NC

WASHINGTON:

•WEST VIRGINIA:

WISCONSIN:

• WYOMING:

Relatione

COLOGHT; LEONARD W.

ANSOME; DAVID

SCULI;

BLudent 19125rI

TUCKER

S560:567•

GEORGE

BALI, JOH

SAUGHLAN

Proto

LEONARD

RIEGET;

CARLOTTE PENDLETO GORSBOROUGE ;

Rev. BuYBAr EpeDEN,

MISTAN J.

ALLACHO

Rabbi OSCAR

LESSLAKER;

attorter;

CHUMACKER, REtOrTeY•

SIDNEY P

El o

ADELICHER,

BARL ?.

3.

Studant Protect

Confidentlel

July 18, 1961,

"Proposal for Student Project, " which reported that due

of the nost significant divoluments in the history of tho

south la the student novenent araliat sagregation Faich had

arlsen within the peat yes".

This Ilterstura stated stat

In the begianing,

the current aouthern student moressit was

made up almost entirely of lagroes; however, gradually sone

white students had begun to join the Negro studente 18 a

Jubile way on the pieket. limes in sit um ad in some

In the jails.

Gonorally, sasrever puito student bodi., haye

had access to Inforation abort what was murlid doing en song

the Negro students, whorever they have boon close enough to

a few have wantod

In Joln actively in the movement.

The article pointed out that throughout Ita

existence, the aid of tho SOUTHERY CONFFRINCE SDLCITIONAL

FUND has boen to stinulate white Southerners to joi 71tk

Negro Southorners to work for Integration.

- 20 €

1/3/63

---

## Page 24

14-00000

NO 100-759

particlpants in the no mort, the SCEP proposAs to Holect at

least ons parson and neds It

to intorest then in the intigration savenento

The Ilterature

pointed out that the payor

talentad

for that rork should bo olther s studot on & graduate stucent.

Villing and ¿bie to tako & ye ofi rom sCioDL o" & t5s311

co-ege graduate the should bave the collity to apoak, Frite

and cormunicate ellectively Accordius to Chle F20p05,

the scer would subsialte the perror selected for a year's for

and at the end oi this tina, the project would be evaluated

and a determination made as to whether an eriort should be

mado to continue the projart.

Iy subsidy; it sase plained

that the scir would pay travel and other extemos aì the

person plus enough for the porson to live on and most other

personal needs.

Ine proposal stated that the SCEF 1s not a

membership organization, pot rather an educationt ag icy

run by a board and it is not

a studont orgauization.

There

fore, the person selected for the project muld not be engaged

In organizing people for, the SCEr and would not be a regular

member of the SCEP stall.

The project rould bo an

Indapendent one, substalzad sud underwritten by the sche,

and the person

selpeted sord operate indepindently of the SCEF.

The proposal lurther atatod that when a suitable

candidato vas lound, the praon would be expected to prepare

In writing an outline of work for the year chich moria bo

subnitted to a committee of the SCEE Board for juryal.

In planning the project, the scar would sork closely witt tha

todent Nonviolent Coordinating Connittes which has given

the project its full approval and is advialug the SCEF du

the working out the detatls of the project. Arcording is

the proposal, the perron selected rould sork closely lch

the Student Nortiolent Coordinating Conmittos (SNCCaud ita

adult adviaers aud, 11 agreeable, mould work as an integral

part of the SNCC stall.

According to the proposal, the parton solected would

cooperate with other student organizations nockiug in the

civil rights deal. The proposal lurther pointed out that the

mothods of morking on the project mould ba lait to the

Intlative of the porson solected. Honoyer, tna zentral Idaa

- 21 •

---

## Page 25

14-00000

NO I"

•759

us the projost is that it 1a an eductional ono but edicatio.

geared toward action. In 1h1s regazd, +h3 organIzatios nar.

not, so mick concernas viet the whito and Nagro etudents.

sotting togother but vera concorued vith the shite 57u60..67

who mould be villine to jois the Negro studorts 1r 50:i0r.

The proponal stated that the porroi solested

Tor the job rould have the duty to brins to otia stirrita

InIornation

and InspiTatIon that mould make tam rant to

Lind theif on mays to ls active.

• One objective @i the parson selected scould be

to arrange for groups of ralte students to not and bear

and tal's vith. Nogry student lesders ol tha Integricion movement

as

such contacts yould provide inspiration for action.

The proposal further stated that the project probably could

not got underray unttl the Falliter 0f 1981.

It trther

stated that persons interosted in applying los thie project

should write to the SCEr, Inc.

Activities 'Relative to Florida Legislative

Committee

Confidential Infomant NO T-1 nado available

on July 18,

1961, 3 Copy 01 в пезд ralease

type comunication

of the SOUTKERN CONPERZNCE EDUCATIONAL FUND, INC., dated

June 26, 1961, which reportod that AUBREY W. WILLIAMS,

President of the SOUTHERN COSFERENCE EDUCATIONAL FIND, INC.,

had charged that a Florim legislative contred mich

recently attacked that organization

9eguad0s cabarsive

BotIvity with noring for 126911a+10n,

and CArEuniM Hi.th

advocasy of enual treatront. undor law."

The communication also stated that MI. ILLIAMS

had stated,

"An objective person will reengnize thia.

attack on the SCEF for shat 1: 1s -s blind angry sputter-

1ng of frustratod non." The comunication also reported

that Mrs. ANNE BRADEN, arother SCEF officinl, had charged

that the Florida Logislative Cormittes 1s "not really afraid -

df communisn but of danocracy."

According to this concunication, dra BRADEN

had made ber chaigo in a manorandum malled to

Supporters

of the SCAF 1n Florida, 1n shich she

stated, "It Beans clear

- 22 -

---

## Page 26

14-00000

NO 100- 9

Meies so that

• what the Florida Legislative Connittse 1s trying

to do 1s to smea. SCAr as communista becausa they are afraid

of that this organization's legislative projoct to Florida

can do to realizo a Iiberallzing Infierce of the state

leglalaturo. "

MIs. BRADEN as also quoted as sayian that the

I'lorida Conmittoe cited abaplutoly no evidenco to back up

charges of conminisn against her husband and the scut,

but that they were sinpiy the opiulon of the comittee

statod in an authoritativa say dressod up 1n 1h9 oilicial

anturo of a governental report so that the casual observer

5.

SCAr Support of Student soiriolent

Coordinating Committee

On July 18, 296012 2 2 0 to 2202 a913 102,

which reported that one of the moat excited and hopelu

dovelopments in the South during the past eighteen months

has been the energence of a nay dynanic youth group., Out of 81t Ius,

stand-ins, Freedo. Riders, and other lorns of proteat have

come & wall organized, deeply religious, but mat your

novement which is being coordinated by the Student Nomiolent

Coordinating Comalttee. The letter stated that one fuactlon

of tho, sCEr was to encourage and, where 1t 13 neoded and

roquested, to flve sone modest financial assistance.

The letter reported that the SCrE had made a

grant of $1,000 to the Student Nonviolent Coordinating

Committee, and hoped to make a grant in the next school year

rant 01 1, 000

of $5,000

to finance a

field worker to enlarge the partisigation

Of more white students

In' the Negro protest movement.

in 23 m

---

## Page 27

14-00000

NO (100-759)

SCE? Intonest in the Elimination

of Segregation in ber zorment Opportunisias.

Confidential informant, NO I-2 made available

on August 18, 1961 a copy of a news release sype

communication of the SCEF dated August 2, 1961 which

reported that DAVID FA BENNESI

", Tormer oftice manage:

For the loulsville Branch of the Minneapolla Hornia

Regulabor Company, had been releases. from his emperent

with that company, beeause of the activities of hir vile.

-tions in louisville and barause of his expreaslos of

enlie i opinion regarding segregation to the employers or 13e

company which had effected offior morale adversaly.

The

communication stated that this may be the rirat case

of a white person who is discriminated againat as

result of pro-integration siands. The communication

stated that BENNENT plans to fije a foonal complaini

with the president's Comnister on Equal Employment

Opportunities.

The communtcatton suated that Loulsy. Ile

integratzonists, white and regre aze organizing a

campaign of protest

and asked sympathizers throughout the

nation to join them. The conmuniaiion stated that

protests are being sent to the Minneapolls Honeywell.

Mans do Con to the PrestiAyen a south on sapois,

Employment Opportunities In Washington, D.C.

7. SCEF Support, uf Negro Voters

In Fayette and Haywood Counties, Harnessee:

The "Southern Patzio!" in 1ts 1s3us of Jures

1901, Volume 19, Number, 6, carries an articiz on page

3 which reported that "Southern Patriot" readers hav

contributed at least a total of $1, 785-41 auring 1961

to the besieged farmers of Fayette and Haywood Countles,

Tennessee of this amount which was contributed through

the SCEr office, $573.50 wan sent directly to the

Tennessee counties and $-,211.31 to Operation Ereedom,

wazon is making loans to the farmers.

In addition

24

---

## Page 28

NO '

0-759)

to this amount, the, article stated many Patriot readers

had responded by sending money directly to Operation

Freedom but no breakdown of the amount was available

The artiole stated that Negroes in both countles were

The article solicited

contributions to Operation Freedom which could be sent

either to that organization of to the SCEF, 822 Perdido

street, New Orleans, Loulsiana.

TI. OFFICERS

Confidential Informant NO T-1 made available

on August 18, 1961 a copy of aSCEF letter dated July 19,

1961 which set forth the following list of officers,

members of the board of directors, members of the arvisory

committce and the medical advisory committee:

President

AUBREY W. WILLIAMS

Vice-Presidents

DI. HERMAN H. LONG

Bishop EDGAR

A. LOVE

MODJESKA M. SIMKINS

Seoretary

Treasurer

BENJAMIN E.l SMITH

Staff

JAMES A. DOMBROWSKI

ANNE BRADEN

CARL BRADEN

WM. HOWARD MELISH

HENRIETTA GOODLE

Dr. JAMES I. HUPP

25

---

## Page 29

0-759)

BOARD OF DIRECTORS :

Alabama

DI• JOHN R.?

A. C-GASTON

CHARLES GUNGOMILLION

JESSIE • GUZMAN .

S. DONNIXON

Ihre Rev. Wo I

AUBREY W

SHUTTLESWORTH

Arkansas

BATES

Delaware

LOUIS•

DONALD

Florida

N RADDING

STEPHENS

DI.

ALBERT

CARTER

TOHN MACA

DI. HAL GOr

ELLEN FETTEF

The Rev. C.

The Rev. BEN

OBERTS

STEELE

WÝLAND

Georgia

ALBERT

E

BARNETT

RUB$

BERKLEY

DI•

MURRAY

FRANCH

DI .

WILLIAN

KOALDER

JOHN WESLEY

DOBBS

KATHARINE

M. D.

MIS. HARRX M GERSHON

Bishop S. Le FREENI

JOSEPHINE D. UURPHS

ESTELLE:

NYCKOFF

Kentucky

KATHARINSUDODRA M. D.

DI. LEWIS S. COASMITHE

Joulelana

* JAMES A.KDOMBROWSKI

DE, SAMUEL BOT GANDI

•JAMES E-GAYL

AS EENRY

Hrs. S. So

HERMANAL

ILO

NAOMI PARNELL

FREDERICK

ACHODES, M. Do

SS IMPKINS

Ine Rev.

Maryland

NELLING

M1551381p2Z

JAMES C.X

TEILLIAM

North Carolina

L. E

SATSTIN

BUTTERE JELD

The Rev. ALEXANDER D

B1shop

Bishop HERBERT BELDAS IAW

26

1/3/63

---

## Page 30

INO

2-759)

Oklakoma

CORINNE BREEDING T

ROSCOE

JAMES /B. XSTEWART

South Carolina

MODJESKA N SIMKINS. Y

Temnessee

The Rev, HENRY

/UNTONY

The DEX-A, E CAMPBELLY

ALICE COBB

DORIS DENNISON T

DI. HERMAN H.ALONGY

RUTH B./ALUENING. Y

Mrs. WILLIE A MILES T

0. BoATAYLOR; M. D. Y

Texas

DI• PAUL FO BOLLAD

JR. X

The Rev. SHERWOO DAVIS A

ine nev

E. C.KESTELLX

MITIDRED HIRSI

W. EINHOGAN X

DI• RICHARD

PONTERS Y

Virginia

The Rev. WILLIAM Be

JUNE PURCELI QUILD/

LEONARD, W. HOLT

SAMUEL 'NEWMAN, M. D. #

ABBOT X

DI. CARE C. XTAYLOR X

W. HALE THOMPSON Y

Washington, D.C.

MORIEL M.

ALEXANDER X

PHILIP A•ACAMPONESCHIX

DI. E. FRANKLIN FRAZIER

FRANCIS AS GREGORY *

ALICE C. KAUNIER Y

C. HERBERT MARSHALI II,

M. DoX

DI • CHARLES HO THOMPSON

West Virginia

1 MrS.: WULIAM Go

Genna

*Mrs. CHARLOTTE PA GOLDSBOROUGH X

DI•

JAMES I.XHUPPY

DI•

LELAND H. {TAYLOR

DI.

WILLIAM J. IN WALLACEY.

ADVISORY COMMITTEE:

Alabama

CLARENCE

E. CRAYFON

DI. A. MA FREEMAN

DOROTHY MOLOBMAN

Arizona

Delaware

27

fu 811s

---

## Page 31

NO (" 1-759)

slorida

FREDERIC

AIWOOD X

& LABECKNETI

CLARK M-EVERY

EDWARD GUZAFRANCIS +

The Rev

„JAMES HUDSON +

TOEL, DA HUNTER

The Ret. FLOYD M IRVIN X

DI. _ OSCAR RIDDLÉ

PBLER HAAROBINSON

CLIFFORD 'AASTRAUS

Maryland

BYRONTALLEN *

DI.. WALTER E. HAGER Y

SIDNEY HOLLANDER

MrS. JOHN O NEUSTADTY

Mrs. VICTOR P.KNOYES Y

M1s81ss1pp1

J. A BURNSY

Georgia

LOUISE

AGOODLOE 7

C. ALASCOTT

FRANK WIXSPENCERX

Kentucky

ALLEN

Dr- E. GATRIMBIE

Profe

ALFRED MAXWOLFSON Y

Louisiaña

Mrs. T. SA BEHRE

Mrs.

PAUL A BLANCHARD +

RIbbI JULIAN' B FEIBELMAN +

DI FORREST

VIOLETTE +

The Rev* RAYMOND BAE

1# Dr. OLIVER C.XCOX. *

BRAGG X

The Rev. ALLEN(HACKETT X

STUART MOORE Y

New Mexico

WITTER BYNNER Y

Mrs. ARTHUR, MUSGRAVE /

The Rer.. J.

PAULXSTEVENS

North Carolina

Dean GRADY D.ADAVIS Y

W XFINLATORX

Dr. OSCAR KKRICE Y

Dr.

• W• CARSONKRYAN *

The Rey. O. LASHERRIL

Dr. A. O. STEELE X

DI.

GERTRUDE WEIL

28

5?

---

## Page 32

2

NO

0-759)

Oklahoma

Washington, D.C.

Dr• ARTHUF N.

BRAGGY

attinbons

IRVING BRANT

DIE MARCUS ISAGOLDMAN Y

J. RUD NIELSEN,

The Rey. CALVIN K. STAINAKERy

*Dean DANIEL GARILIT

South Carolina

West Virginia

prof. CHARLES F.

'NESBIT

MES. FRANKLINIC QUILKINY

MEDICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE:

Tennesse:

Helenen THE Men

F. WOODS BECKMAN

Alabama

Mr. and

MrS.. JONATHAN

and

EVANS Y RY CA

Mrs.

JOHN KEKNICHT,

STEVARI, J. D. Y

The Rev. ROBERT. C/ PALMER

Arizona

Texas

FRANK

Rabbi FLOYD

Florida

DI. : MALI G-ALENTZ,

'The Rev.

HARRY C-MONROX

The Rev. PHILIP SCHUG +

The Rey. and Mrd

CARTER WESLEY

SPANN/Louisiana

R. RECHE PILITANS, M. DI

Dr. 0. Me

*WHITTIER

c. C,WEIL

VIrginia

Missouri

EDGAR SO FRAIETY

MIS, BUENA V. KELLEY BERRYY

PARK J. WHITE, M. D. Y

Dr• RUTHIMC NEIL

North Carolina

LAWRENCE E.XPAXTON, D. Do SEC -*

W. H SANGER. Y

VIRGINIA MITHERS+

In. WYOPPERMAN, Me DOT

29

118/03.

---

## Page 33

14-00000

NO (15-759)

!. ianoma

DONALD

GERTRUDE NIELSEN,

REMAN, Mo

Don

D.

Tennessee

WILLIAM H FAULKNER, M. De

Confidential Informant NO I-3 advised on May 18,

1960 that in the past he has considered JAMES DOMBROWSKI

to be a conmunist, 1f not an actual CP Leader because

he has followed Communist principles.

ALBERIA AHEARN, 2311 Payne, Lolsv1lle,

Kentucky, a sell-admitted former member of the commurist

Party in

Louisville, Kentucky on December t and 13,

1954 In her testimony in Jefferson County, Kentucky

court, In the prosecution of CARL BRADEN under state

sedition statute testifled that CARL BRADEN and ANNA

BRADEN, his wife, were known to her as members of the

Communist Party In Louisville; Kentucky from January,

1951 to December, 1954, which was during the period of

her (AHEARN'S) Communist Party membership.

The CP-USA has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to executive order

10450.

Confidential Informant NO T-4, a business

person advised on June 21, 1961 that the New York

Council to Abolish the Un-American Activities Commitüe=

Issued a check on May 9, 196] to the Southern Conference

Education Fund, Incorporated in the amount of $1,209.32.

30

---

## Page 34

1+0 (100-759)

A characterization of the New York Council

to Abolish the Un-American Aotivities Committee appears

In the appendix section of this report.

Confidential Informant NO T-5 made avallable

on May 21, 196] Information maintained by the Freedon

ways Associates, Incorporated, 799 Broadway, New York

City, which reflected that JAMES A. DOMBROWSKI,

executive director,

¡ Southern Conference Educational

Fund, 822 Perdido Street, New Orleans 12, Louisiana,

was

Ilsted as a subscriber to Freedomvys. A,characterization

of the Freedomways Associates, Incorporated appears

In the appendix section of this report.

Confidential Informant NO I-6 advised

on Jule 30, 1961 that the Chicago Gommittee to Defend

the Bill of Rights as of June, 1961 was soliciting

for the support of an appeal for executive clemency

fOr FRANK WILKINSON and CARL BRADEN. • Io this end the

committee was processing mailing of a letter and a

petition requesting the recipients to Join the

endorsers of the letter in petitioning the President

of the United States to pardon FRANK WILKINSON anc

CARL BRADEN •

31

---

## Page 35

14-00000

N0 • 0-759)

The Informant stated that this correspondence has to

date, or will be disseminated to five thousand

prominent citizens throughout the United States,

to all persons on the Chicago Committee to Defend the

B111 of Rights mailing list and to all persons on the

mailing of this corresporience

estizens and was being aislated, by three other

• individuals.

Confidential,

Informant, NO I-7 advised In

June, 1961 that RICHARD CRILEY was a member of the

state. Committee of the communist easis of linos,

having been elected to that committee at the 1i7inois

State CP convention on January 24, 1960. A characterization

of the Chicago Committee to Defendithe Billiof Righüs

appears in the appendix section of

this report.

Confidential Informant NO T-8 advised on

April 18, 1961 that at the meeting of the Maryland-

District 01-Columbia Commoo raty_On Al 14,

DC

1961 ati the home of BOL

group that on April 26,

808 south umbra, Balt nore rat Johns

LEE, CP. District Board Member,

Baltimore, the Johns Hopkins groups were sponsoring

crying opens Universes,

the appearance of FRANK WILKINSON and CARL BRADEN, who

were to speak against the House Committee on Un-American

Activities:

LEE asked that all CP members who possibly

could, attend.

Confidential Informant NO T-9 advised

meeting was

meting aled the home assis Co, it Distriot

• April 14,

1961.

It was announced that

Board Member, 1961 FRANK WILKINSON and CARE BRADEN would

on April 26,

attend

a rally against the House Committee on Un-American

AGivities

at Levering Hall, Johns Hopkins University.

32

---

## Page 36

NO!

0) 759)

NO T-10 advised on April 18, 1961 that

at a meeting of the District Committee of the CP of

Maryland on April 14, 1961 at the home of BOB LEE, a

District Board Member, BOB LEE announced the appearanse

oI WILKINSON and BRADEN on April 26, 1901 at Johns

Hopkins University Indicating that they would spea

at Levering Hall on the question of peace..

Ine urged

that all communists attend regardless of olub or seo-

tion.

Confidential Informant, NO I-ll advised In •

July, 1961 that the May-June Issue, 1961. enlime 6,

number 3 of the "Southern

carried a

That to aunt overbere that theisouthem ov

letter" has turned over its subscription list to the

"Southern Patriot" and that present subsoriptions would

continue until expiration date. A characterization of the

"Southern News Letter"

appsars in the appendix section

of this report.

33

---

## Page 37

14-00000

NO 1. 10-759)

APPENDIX

CHICAGO COMMITTEE: TO DEFEND THE BILL OF RIGHT'S

The Chicago Committee to Defend the B111

of Rights (CCDBR), maintains headquarters in Room 821,

189 West Madison Stroet, Chioago, Illinols.

•A source advised in July, 1960, that key leaders

of the communat Party (CP met With RICHARD CRILEY, the

then Executive Secretary of the Chicago Committee tö

Detend Demooratio Rights (CODDR), and a member of the

Oys Liberties Commission, CP of Ill1no1s.

meeting, CRILEY indioated that the ollmate of the United

States on civil liberties and olvli rights issues had

ohanged to the extent that it was now possible to proceed

to form an organization with broader mass support tr. in

the present CODDR.

By so doing, CRILEY believed thai

people who would not associate themselves with the

OODDA beaause.of the narrow soope of the purposes of

this organization, that

18, defense of Smith Aot votims,

saIt hartley viotims, eto..

would Join a C1v1l Ilberties

iand civ nights organization built around a broady

Issue such as the Abolishment of the House Committee

on Un-American Aotivities (HCUA). The. CP loaders, after

receiving assurance from CRILEY that any new organization

chat might evolve would protect the Party Interests in

the same manner as the old CCDDR. authorized CRILEY tO

proceed with his plan to form a broader organization than

the CCDDR.

A second source advised on October 31, 196u

that a new organization known as the Chicago Committ

to Defend the B1ll of Rights was formally launched

In Chicago at a meeting on Ootober 26, 1960.

The

stated primary purpose of the new organization was

to seek the abolition of the HOUA, and RICHARD CRILEY

was named as its Executivy Seoretary, after having been

the guiding force in arranging the October 26, 1960

meeting.

34

APPENDIX

---

## Page 38

NO (15 -759)

APPENDIX

The first source, in October, 1960, advised

that CRILEY again attended a meeting of IllInois District

CP. leadership on October 28, 1960, at which time he

reported on the organizational meeting of the CCDBR.

CRILEY stated that the immediate purpose of his organira

tion 1s to obtain mass support to abolish the HOTTA,

but the new Committee purposes will also Include defense

of Smith Act and Taft-Hartley victims. He said there

wIll be no formal affillation with any national organization

ve and rate ton

of similar purpose; however, the CCDBR, according to

CRILEY, will consult and have liaison with national

organizations having the same purpose. According to

the source, the CP leadership agreed with the general

airection.of the CCDBR as outlined by CRIIEY.

the second source advised on May 15, 1901.

that the CCDBR continues tio adhere to thä

same aimg 2n0

purposes and operates under the same leadership.

С.-" это..

35:

APPENDIX

---

## Page 39

14-00000

.. (1..

759)

APPENDIX

FREEDOMWAYS ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED

The records of the Secretary of State, Now

Yorks State Department of, State, Albany, New York,

reflect that the certifloate of Incorporation of Freedom.

ways Associates, Incorporated, was flled on Maroh 2,

1961.

The first issue of "Freedomways," spring,

1961, 1s self-described as a quarterly rovlew of the

Negro freedom movemênt published by Freedomways

Associates, Incorporated, 799 Broadway, New York City.

advised that "Freedomways

On May 25, 1961, a considential source

was set up by JaMEs JacksoN,

a member of the, National Committee, CP, USA, for the

oP of the United States with the approval of the cr

of the soviet Union.

On May 24, 1961, another confidential

advised that a report was given on "Freedomways" at

a meeting.of the National Board, CP, USA, held on

May 24, 1961. It way stated that the criginal plan

oalled for the publication to be openly Marxist, but

that it was later decided it would not be avowedly

a Marxist publication.

Editorials are in the hands

a mixed group of Marxists and non-Marxists. It was

stated that the central purpose of "Freedomways" 1s

to develop& theory and positive oriticism of ourrenti

•In the Negro movement, as well as to raise the level

of understanding and disoussion taking place in Negro

11fe today and to projoot a soodalist and pro-soviet

orientation.

36

APPENDIX

---

## Page 40

NO

• 1 9-759)

APPENDIX

NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO ABOLISH

THE UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE

Or May 3, 1961, a source advised that the

National Committee

to Abolish the Un-American Activities

Committee was organizea in August, 1960, at Ios Angeies,

California, to stimulate new and utilize all efforts of

Interested Individuals and organizations in a national

campaig. to promote public education leading to pelitical

action to abolish the Housè Committee on Un-American

Activities (HCUA). The Natiohal Comittee, to Abolish

the Un-American Activities Committee will not duplicate

program, but will encourage the coordination and consolida

tion of

all their efforts for abolition, and will promote

new efforts in those CongressIonal Districts where

education and polltical action for abolltion have not.

been Initiated.

Frank Wilkinson 1s the Field Representative

of the National Committee to Abolish the Un-American

Activitles Committee.

According to the source, Wilkinson

periodically confers with Dorothy Healey, Chairman,

Southern California District Communist Party, and 1g 1n

close touch with other leading communist functionaries

In the Los Angeles area.

Another source on September 17, 1952, advisco

that Frank Wilkinson was

a Communist

• Party member as

of September, 1952.

37

APPENDIX

---

## Page 41

14-00000

NO (IN' 759)

APPENDIX

NEW YORK COUNCIL TO ABOLISH THE

UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE

On March 9, 1961, a source furnishea intorma-

tion Indicating that

the New York Council to Abolish the

Un-American Aotivities Committee (NYCAUAC) , 150 west

34th Street;

New York, New York, was the Atlantio Coast

coordinating' organization of the National Comnittee

to Abolish the

Un-American Activities Committee (NCAUAC)

and that as such it was free to Identify and coordinate

1ts

efforts with the NCAUAC as closely. as it desired

38

APPENDIX

---

## Page 42

CONFIDENTIAL

180% 3-759)

APPENDIX

"SOUTHERN NEWSLETTER"

A source advised on September 11, 1958, that

the "Southern Newsletter" was published in Chicago,

Illinois, at that time and had been published in Chicago

since the latter part of 1957 EUGENE FEIDMAN 13 listed

as the

editor of this publicatiop.

In April, 1958 another source advised. that

during a meeting with officials of the Illinois Communist

Party (CP) held on April 22, 1950, an official of the

"Southern Newsletter

stated that material in the "News-

letter" Is direoted toward white Southerners and tha, the

"Newsletter" agitates for two things in the South -

desegregation and trade unlonism.. It was also stated

that this publication is not propagating Socialism

In the

south at this time.

EUGENE FELDMAN asked these

Illinols Party leaders to suggest Party members or other

Individuals who might assist the "Southern Newsletter"

staff. in gathering Information and preparing material.

for artioles and in building up circulation. These

Party leaders promised FELDMAN that his request would

be considered and he was also promised a letter of Intro-

duction to national Party leaders in New York CIty,

according to the source.

CHARLES CHILDS, a self-admitted member of tho

CP, In North Carolina, between 1950 and April, 1955,

advised in January, 1952, that EUGENE FELDMAN attended

a North Carolina CP meeting held on December 23, 1951,

and stated that he had been in the Party for fourteen

years at that time.

The Communist Party, USA, has been designated

by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.:

CONFIDENTIAL

39*

---

