# 104-10169-10125

## Page 1

104-10169-10125

SOBJECT

FOR ERLI

(ALTAS

DOB & FOB

DOCATI ON

OOOOPATION

Z/N

SECRET

3 STELLARA MIChAILOTDA COLIISTLA (DEO CEXIOVALOYA)

1 1 MArEN 1929 SE ReiN, POSSON DIESE, ESPEN, USBR

ANACOLLE MADALIOTIOÀ DOLITETI (DOTA 25 AU8, 1926 1A FiTyRELA,

1 Intrana 001IT8XLA (barn 8a June 1955 la Mensa, Austrie)

1909-50 MonocH Plakhanor Inselture of Deonondes, Course

not eomplotodo

1950-59 1ndee

(8955-37 M08004 Lomonosor Stato Undreraity, maJoring de

hierosy, Graduatod.

1 JOY, 1959-JWY 1960 MItOr BE HODOON MOSTIN filE studio

SECRET

---

## Page 2

ed-idoto

8. Phyelcal Noscripllon:

" Apo

Appar oal Afo

Bolpht and Wolgte

Oblor el Iyos

Hitr

Tooth

Poature

Face

Compleston

Scars

Dolld

Oonaral Appraranco

Prominent F'onterea

19" - 80 poanda

• Hnse

:=-Blonde

• Peor

• Dredt

• Oral

•. Talr

• None

• Modium

• Noce

Dontral Phyalcal Conditloa - dood

CSONET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECALi

29 March 1062

MEMGRANDUM MAS: Director al Central Intelligence

VIA

BUBJECT

• Leputy Iirector (Plans

Anatolly Ailkhallovich Golitayn); His Wile,

Mormerly svetlana

and His Daughter,

(lormerly I'at, ann Oolitayna), into the

United States for Permanent Residence

under the Proviaiona of Sectlon 1, Publie

Law 110, ho Amended.

1. Tale menerandun contains a recommendation submittud

for the Director's Aproval, such recommendation la contained la

paragraph 3.

%. Subjeet la a former sentor operational case officer of the

Borlet Committee sir stale Security (sGH) with the rank of rajor,

who defectod to tha vert on 15 December 1001 and requested polit

ical asylum in the latted states, subjoct was accompanied by his

Wile and drugbles, sablect has already made an outstanding contri-

button to the intellence and counterintelligence minion of the

Untted States Gorerament by furnishing valuable information of

Iret prlority courn to the National Security, This Agency and

the Federal Buron il Investigation contime to exploit bia

knowledgeabille en toret Intelligence operations in many parts

of the world. Artarment "A" contains a detalled justilication lor

use ol the previatura nt Saction 7, Publle Lay 110, a amended,

to grant permans residence in the Untted States to Subject, his

S. I tharafare recommend that subject, his wile, and

daughter ba zinniel per anact residance in the Unlied Staisa

undor the proviators of section 7, Publie Law 110, aa amended.

JOHN M. MAURY

Chief, SR Dirsion

SECRET

3IPV

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

- 2-

Orig: DD/P/SR DiviaJon/JNOU-SR/CI: mr

Altachmenta:

"A". Jencelou ora indoto e a sero cor por, de

"'" - Elberapblo date on sabjacto.

Distributlon:

081- Adoreano v/astacho.

8 = DD/P

1 • CDC

8 • C/AR

CONCUR

1- 08-Allen Affsiro m/Atacho.

Tha socommmandon contalmad

in paragraph a de approved.

Deputy Precter (Pinos)

Director al Contral Intell gence

Data:

CIA Delecter Cordir le

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

Puntifiontion sor Addasion of Jobo

tone (formeriy

(forarly Istyuan COLINYNA) sato the laltod States fo5 permanent

residene undes the provinions of Bootion Ta Pola 110, un amendod.

Do Dubfoot 18 a former sentor operational case officer, a majos

1a the Soulet Conmi8t0e for Stato Securlty (8ua), ibo defestod to the

l'est on 15 Docenber 1901 vith bia uito Avetlana and his daughter Intyana.

Plor to hin defection, subfoot man stationod in the sorlet Ebasay 1n

Halinkt under the sover of third socrotary and under the nome of

Anatally Mikhallorich MIDY. la hod ersirod et this post la suly 2960,.

noompanied by his wifo and dighter, and had boon ongagod sinon that....

time In counterintalligense operetione esatrat marioen, Avitian, French,

Italian and Japanese targeta. On 15 December 1961, Subjest cortadiad the

CIA representative In Helsinkd at the latter's home and requested asylum

in the united States, On 16 Desember 1953, Subjeat and his fenily fier

SECRET

3/PV

---

## Page 6

StiT

- 2=

OrIg: DD/P/SR DIraJoa/J101-SR/CI: mr

Attachments:

"A" • Juriticallon lor adelasson of Joam

ute and danghter inlo the Uallod deales lor permanent

saaldence under the proviatons al bection 7, pubble La

110, as toaded,

"'" - Blopraptle data on sabjocto.

Distr!bution

• O&1- Addreasoo w/attache.

8 - DD/P

1 - 0B-Allen Alisire w/Atacho.

1 • CDC

8 - C/aR

CONCURI

The recommendation contained

An paragrapad la approvad.

Depuly Directer (Plans)

Cales, al dai

Director a Central Intallrence

Dates

CIA Delecter Ccordiate

SiGhtt

1 JU

---

## Page 7

SECRET

• ATTACTER? "A"

Juntstloatson for Adulasion es Joha

stone (Sorner)y

¡beLlONa OGLIISTLA DAR CHERNOVALOTA) BRi

(Forsarly Datyasa COLITIOLA) 10t0 the Deltod States for permanent

residone under tsa proviatons of Bootson l, Polo 210, an amendod.

Do DubJoot 10 1 former sonlor operational Onse 0881005, a Jor

In the Boviet Camdttoo fOr StAto BAGUrIty (10B), uho defestod to the

Tent on 15 Isonaber 1001 vith do ulse Bretlans and his daughter Dityano.

Prior to hia defestion, Bubjoot mus stationod in the Borset Entassy 1n

Jalaint under to cover of third secrotary and under the send of

Anatally Mikhallorlos 1LD0Y. ta had assirod st this port in ter 2960,

accompaniod do his vito und diletter, ant had boes angagod alpoo fbat..

tIme 11 counterinto lligenoe operetions egainst Marion, filtion, Irapeb,

• Itallan and Japanose targets, On 25 Docember 1961, Bubjest cartasiod the

CIA reprosentatito In felaintl at the latter's home and roquested asylum

1a tbo Unitod Statas, On 16 Desember 1951, Sablest and 21s Sently ster

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

WIth a CIA eDgre TACO Fln'"n' to Jradis ant loaDer to the Juitod states

Va FrankfurE sE MAla, CArDARY, ASTITLAS On 18 DecenDer 196.

8o Dub foot firet entered Soriot State Security vort 11 Anpat 1945,

at rich tian de mis aurallas in the Firat Moreor Seboal, CUHR/100/S00A38,

a schoal fes countariatalllanoe offleers in the Border armed forces.

Upon freduntios sran this school 1a dna 29%6, he ma assiened to the

Intera Bootson al the 8X Department (nourity of sorter elison abroad)

of the MIsus Chles Directorto (Parian dirvatanata Jos the 10I M an

(BI) mo ortablimbed 1a 1047, Incorporating the Intallianoe Menotions of

State Boority, soviet ull1tary Intolligence (OU) und the lemlatry of

Forese Affaire, Sub joet contion 1a hiu form setirity 19 the serly

famed Tith Depertant of the Third Directorate of the fi. Fuinuea

septonder 2948 and entert 2950, sunso attended tha tro-your leer

Intelligenoe sohoal of the XI (Porterly and presantly the State Seeurity

#che: Intalligence Saboal), completing the Counterintelligence durioulu.

Upon the conolusion of Dis schooltag, Subject rsturned as an operational

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Case OffIcer to i18 former function, which by that time vas perforied by

the SIl Seotion of the Eastern Department of the Pirat Iirectorate of the

MGB. In September, 2951, Subfoot transferred to the Anglo-American

8not100 of the Counterintelligense Department of the Tirat Direstorato,

?

ME. Sa bocana a Santor Operational Case OrFICeS 1a Hoverber 1961.

• Tub foet contimed In this capnalty through an MOB strugtural reorgual-

Sation la Dosenber 1951, and was appointed Chies of the Amrioan 'Dost of

the Courterintol21gende Department of the Chief Intellignon Diratorate

(foreign directorate) of the NCB folloring another reorgnisation la

• Doomber 1952. In April 1953, he was antened an Deputy Chief of the

Ingre Desk of the Counterintelligence Departunt of the Se bond Chief

Irontorato (Parolga Direstorato) of the MVD, following still anotter

reaganization in abest Apall 1953 sitar tha desth ee steeph Sterla.

Ooteber 2953, Subjoot was anaigned to the State Security desidency 1n

Tiana, becoming as Óperational lase Offloer In the Emife Group, under

cover of Senior Paferent of the Information Depertment of the High Com

nasion 1n Austrio Ba val assoupanted by hia vita. In Auguat 195%,

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

he was transferred 11 Viema to the listler Sab-Group al the Astro

Americar-Prench Group of the ila funidaney where be worked on counter

Intelligane mttart. Subjeat returned to the USSR 1a Angust 1955 and

entared the Juridical Institute of the four year Higher School of tbe

B, There he studied counterintelligance vort. Upon Eraduation 1a

Beptember 1999, Subjest van antened to the "Westera Deaty Organi-

Intions" Direstion of the Information Departant of the First Chief

Drostorato (Moralen troctorato) or te IB. In Meril 1960, he vas

transferred to the ivarican Beation of the Counterintelligace Departi

mont of the Mrst Chief Direstarato, and Bras there, sent to falsinld

In July 2960, Subject was & Ecmsonal momber Brom May 1942 until Aril

2945, s candidata member of the Coumniat Party of the soviet Unton from

Aper11 2915 untel Aprll 1947, and & nember of the Commmist Party of the

Borset Undon fron April 194T until his defection. Subjeat has provided

« considerable anout al Information on Soviet State Seourlty operations,

mothods and por sonalites uhlah has bean acourate and oohsiutent with

the estimated knovlodgeability of an individunl with his poultion and

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

experience. Thie inforation has been of major significanca, exposing

Soriet intalliganoe operation to a preter extent than 1n' oration fro

any defector in recent years.

3. Ine bone fldes of Subfost vas establiabad as of a8 tach 1962.

Bab foot has been Interrogted on his biographie data and has been debriefed

upon mbetantire utters uithin the arees of bla morlodge und experience.

Dub foot'a wise has been dabriefed upon ber biographie date. Subjest vil

evas a tochnical exand rat100 0n 28 muck2962 vita fanachle saruits.

Jo evidence has been unsovered that indientes Subject vus Inatrusted by

the XuB to dafect for short or long term operational purpones or that his

"tosy of himelt or his defection 10 sot true. Astrally, the relue de the

Information to the U.S. Subjoot han already elten and the doresponding

dango to the Ill la evidance tending to nupport the bons Eldes o1 subjest.

do Subjects have been exumined by CIA sodieal and suyehlatile affleers

and have been found to be qualifled for Aganay-sponsored Immigration to

the Unstod States under Beotion 7, Publie Law 110, as ssended.

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

So 061112a1100, subject bes segalrod considerablo toulodge and

experieND FrOM 11A DATVISe uInCe 1946 as a StaSI OFFLORE Of the ENa

and bas alroady Elras CIA Destals eousterintel)18900e letoration volca

sas boor of coralderedto valua and upos iso barlo os viles immodlate

notion has born tahs Dy CLi and other elemento of the U.S. Coverament.

1 protess to otaur arms of loriodgonbility concernine ooster

Intelligio and, to a far 100005 estAnt, EllItaTy, sonando and pallelcal

anttero, and elaim to be ablo to plan and exonto a political netion

roEre to nugate sortat operations abroad and dinaradit the Bordet

sogle pnerally, Bubjeet vill coutime to be debriefed by the 88

Dirsason for the puzone of obtainlas additionel Information on tbe

aforementioned subjoeta and 1121 then be made anilable at the appropelate

time to other deposente ol CIA asl dia liE amity In Confunation

wIth the CDC for father purgosural dobriefing, In addition, it my be

posaldie to esplait Bubjust aireatly In CA Or CE activities, Subsequent

to the exploitation of subjest, Do vill be resettiod in the U.9. Ihie

resettlemnt v1ll impers =0 furthor finisial burden on CIA Irastsch as

SECRET

6

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

Bel bet bad been elras tax tres $200,000, 00/t Vle be requented lo

partsespute la chane resettlement plans sitar certain sensitivi ampocte

• hta debriertas here boes coplarad.

6o The 8l Divialon sonomando that Subjoot, sto viro, mat alo

danetter do crantod permanent realdence 1a the Unstod Statoo under

Dortion 1, Pubile Lar 110, as innadad, subjood'a memberaaso sa tha

Tomacao; durtaz the portod May 1942 to 19911 1245, blo candidato

mombernals in the Commiet Party STOl Aor11 1945 unt1a Apta 2947, and iso

mberadio la the Canist perty Stan AriLl 19Ã7 until lisa descation on

25 Dopember 2961 preludes the logulization of hia adminason tato the

Unitud Btates for perment reuidence under othes eciating landeration

• Ims. Subjecta un presently in the United States under parole pro

edumi, The 8R DiTIcion has agreed to assume primary responsibllity for

Sub foste during the exploitation phase and 00/C v111 be requested to

mostet In the resettlement of Subject therearter. Subjecta' motivation,

belground, and progress to date in adjusting to 111e In the Anartenn

voonomy leade un to belleve that theis furthar assimilation tuto Amerioan

melaty vill be suesesarily sosanglinied.

SECRET

T

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

DNy 2042 - 109. 2945 - tomsomal mmaber

40- 2045 - 155- 2947 - Cartero D Sor o lt calos

DA, 2987 - DAR, 2968 - Mmbor af tha ComeLos Arty 0f

the Bordes Unton

SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

Attachmous "go

sota

tren

DO IATA0031 PLA

DO 1008 VEO DANT 89 APAAS 1906 10 TiTTALLA, POIRATO DO LADS, METALELAS

Do 1A father, so eno son a porn testern, mond to Masse la

1039, store so ves emplorad no a fireman, to sorbor anno prom 6i6

olotor, uhe do martial to 8 aldos of the Borler OlVA Artasion Pleas,

Dub jood mua andatons in the Manian Orthodor Churos.

E. Plugation

Bubject bepia bio aducation la Mosoon asi coupletod sores jenro of

popooling nt a unrual novun year sohood. He then transferred to i sadat

wahool, which specialized in artillery training. This schoal vas ernonated.

tres Yosco: to Indrakolbabatsk In 1941, because of the var. subjest.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

Joh

SECRET

Astacheeat ""

ston

DOS 1.10S & 83 enguE 1966 1a PirTENTi, POltATa ObINES, UoralRIAn 238

DOB A FOB & 1 Murch 2929 In Belal, Bostor Oblant

DADATE

JODILY 8 Detynna Galstagan

DOO A FOE 8 82 Jime 1955 In Tenna, Austria

ODUATION & Buy. 104% - AUB. 1945 - Frunze Artillory Sabool In Odessa.

Unsampleted.

dale, 1545 - Just. 1946 - Fret Hoscow Schoal, WKR/ITSO/SMERSH

Bap. 2948 - Jul. 1950 - Elgher Intelligense Sahool, K1, Noser:

Ango 1955 - Sep. 1959 - Higher School, KGB, MOsCOW

MILITARI

: Sep. 1995 - Aug. 1945 - 106121208 and attendod Frinze Artel-

Lery School in Odessa.

DOCUPATION: Ango 1945 - Deo, 1961 - Officer of the Sorlet Stete Beourtty

Service (Bucces Ivoly tha MiB, KI,

NVD and KOB) engaged in counterintel-

I1 gone work; attained rank of hejor.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

Do 1008 ooploral dia ton par asboallas la cale codot acboal, recalrine

Ado "arraos 88 foslanti° (ortuniles certifionto) In 19t8, Astor praduation

fun the shoal do joel entered the bunse Artlllery Seboal la Odorne,

Dobrado

ASSES 124S - SEa 1246 0o,1008 astondod the ano- year Fires Massor

tainod Biate Boonly pereonnes to become counterintelligenoe offloors

so the serlos arnol fortos. Upon enduation, honoves, Bubjeot arrangod.

tammunt a ELAte Boourdly offiver, rhom he bad mat, to be iransferrod to

the diretorate of Diate Boourity responaible for intelligene end cotos

Intelligence operations abroad. Subjeot's rank upon graduation vus

Aimintart Operationnl Care Officer.

Suptember 1948 - July 1950 At bis on request, subjeat vas emalled

In the Higher Intelligance Sohoal of the Commitee of Internation (KI).

₴

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Arios to the entablatans or the IS 111 2947, and ASter Its dianalution

So 1951, the Ileder Intelligenon Schoal ma a Blate SeCUrIty 1 atItution.

Tale schoal providad totalls ence and countertotallicanse trainias to

Rotal11a00 06810858 d8 the parales direstonito sha dad lnd arses proviolas

parational exportanos, nt lons at hondgunters. Aster one gues of

fenna operational nad booteround inesalas, the elass ma dividad into

too seoultion, Intolls gone and counterintelligame. dubfoot, vich about

me sista of the elans, attendod the counterinto 111ç0n00 shoulty, Durina

to pariod, dub joot voluntarily attonded the Monoor Univeristy of

purdan tentata ln the ornings. The eurioulum conniatod of polltioal

mojoote only.

January 2950 - May 1951 Bubjest vas emolled no a casespondeno

•Starvat dê the lighor Dipionatio Sohoal of the Ministry of TarosEn Affalre

during this period. Subject requestad this sohooling in onlar tiat bo

would be better prepared to carry out his cover functions 18 he abruld be

anuignod abroad by State Bocurity under cover of the Miniacy of Foreign

•AsTairso Dus to his tranuter to a new josition 1n April 1953 Ireparetony

to his animment to Auntria, Subject did not Minist tis salvailug.

SECRET

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Angurt 1955 - Septerber 1959 While on duty 1n Mems, Subject ro

posted permiantos to attend the Elther seboal of the MCB, Hoseou. Its

roquent vas frantod, un dabjost vas traneferted back to loscor, emalling

In the furldloal Instituto of the Elcher School In Algast 1955. Ibe first

goer sas dovotod to panorel subjosts, suaà as history, valle the last

there gour of the sour per counse vere devoted to ill froots of ai

Nas seneral counterintelli pance anú Interrogation methods. Durtag the

Inst your of the course, subject presentod and successfully defendad a

Dub foot enduntad tron the sohoal 11 Septembers 1959, roceivig a diploma.

attenting to the oomplotion of Juridical Instituto vort, and a secret certifi-

ento linting countertotelligesce vubjects sovered. This latter certificato

•mas sot firen to Dubjeot, but was filod 11 ble personal folder In tha KEB,

Employment

Sub jeat's employment ha: born exclusively. with the soviet State Seourity

Service.

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

Stota Securit; Pletai

August 1945

all, a student do to irat vessel, /10/

Ame 1946.

Jme 1946

Movember 194T. Upon the establishment of the lI (Comittoo Sir Infor

mtion) 1n November 1947, Source was assigned to the

IT as Referent in the FLith Department of the Third

Directorate, which was the new designstion of bie

previous office in the MiB.

aptember 1948 sent as a student to the KI Higher Intelligance Schoo

(Counterintelligence Faculty), where he completed the

course In July 1950.

August 1950

Assigned as Operational Case Officer with the SK section

of the lastern Directorate of the First Iirectorato

foreign directorate of the NGB.

Beptember 1951 Assigned as Operational Case OffIcer In the Anglo

American Section of the Counteriatelligence Departn ent

Of the Firet Directorate, MB. Promotod to Sentor

Operational Case Officer In November 1951.

Docence 1951 The KI was dissolved In Deember 1951 and 1ts functions

Incorporated Into the First Chief Directorate of the Me.

Source became a Senior Operational Case Officer in the

CT gectlon of the American Depertment of the Anglo

American (Firat) Direatorate of the First Chief Direco

torato, MiB, and remelned 1n thie positlos intll

December 1952.

5

SECRET

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

bomber 1952 Appotated Chief of the merlenn Dest (Serror o

se Conterintelligence (NInth) Department of ch

Calel Intelligence IIrectorate (Pareles directorial.

Desvetorate La Deceaber 1952.

A9411 1953

Ortober 2953

Angust 2954

Chias Direotarta Los the My, fallouted la seal

of Stalin and the roosgudItion of alate noeurity ty

Dariya In about Aril 2953.

•Anniçnod no Operational Cane Offloer to the Intere

Group of the NVD Maldency ta Vienna.

masterred In Vlonia to the Bistiah Sui Oroup

of tha Anglo Anartoas Jresal Ora

Under cover of Senior Roferent of tha Informallon

Department of the lish Co10s100er 10 Auntie.

agant 1959

counterintell1gen0o.. Oraduated in August 199%.

sun-linnah 1959 Anasgned for a tro-month parlod to the border Touriel

and Dalegations Department of the Second Chief D1we-

cornte /Internal counterintel 21g0000/ 1o ate

material Ie bis thesis,

During the firat part of thin

period, he was assignod for ten wuys to the dourdinarian,

Bection, Fourth (European) Department of the Booond

Chies Directorate for prectloal expertance.

Aver11 1960

JaT 2950

Iransferred to the American Section, Counterinto121gapee

Depertment, Pirat Chief Direotarato, BuB

Sant to Firlend to vot in coterIntellignee aginat

the Anerloans, Artish, Frenah, Japanese and Weni

Germans undor the cover of Attaaba.

SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECKET

Palatine

Fa thar

Apto 11o

Do Mother:

1093 18 F1ryn81Bi

• Blater

J92 11 frysea.

ba Doralesl pesoripeson

ADI

Apparent As

Ansas and Molate

Colos of Dus

Madr

Toth

Poi ture

Tace

Complexdion

39

916* - 169 100,

Ha nel

brown

Cood

Treot

Round

Yalr

Dulid

General Appearance

Teat

Prondent Featuree

Mono

General Physical Condition

Good

SECRET

---

## Page 23

SECRET

contine

Do Personal Dete

Bub 10e? ma DOra 1 MUrCh 1929 1a Salas, Maaron Oblast, B.S. I.B.R.

et parate who are protonaloon workers of poonant artell. Tram that

time unt1l 1960, Dubjoet sualdod moresolely la Moanents, Malorodas;

Soninerds Anolennis Kha-hors Am-Alal Alallanbadi Boohis and 1o000r.

Dub foot uneased Antally Mukhnilorich dolleage on 21 Anpat 1933. Her

only travula outaldo al the UBAR Were tO Aalrse (1959-95) and Finland

(1962 61), both times accepanying her sunband vhs vas os rossementa

abroad for the Boriot State Beolrity servlod, Dubjeet me never a member

el the Commini Party of the Xonsomal, She mun ohriatoned In the Russian

Orthodar Chural. She vas a student from 2949 to 1950 et the Moscow

Flokhanor Institute Ol DoOndEloR, and from I950: tO 1957 el the loscou

Iomonosor state Voiveraity, majoring in hintory. lier only employment was

from Novenber 1959 unt1l July 1960 as editor at the HOSTIll Min studio

In 1acaTr. Subject idíectai to tua mat in secencer 1jól, accompanying

has husband and taking with her hor six yeer old daughter, Iatyana.

SECRET

---

## Page 24

:.

-..

SECRET

2.

Education

Subjaat completod middle school in Moscou In 1949, Pros 1949 to 1950

Dubjoot atudied at the Moncor Plekhanor Institute of Economies. She did

not corplate ber atudies at thii Institute because of bor entry sato the

Maneor Lomonosor State Univernity, Iron 1950 to 1953 and senda Brom 2955

to 1957 fubjoat rajorad in history at the Moscow loanodor stare Darrerasty,

complating bos course in 1957. she studied Englie and German la midalo

sohoad and the univeralty, but her capability in these languages 1e voal.

So Eplorment

Bub fest mas employed Ir0n November until July 1960 at the studio

"M09114" for salary vas 900 old rubles per sonth and hor poestion er

letod of soreening and editing soripte for the youth f1lm depertment.

Relatives

o Nuther: Mikhall Yakovlovich Chernovalor, born 1899 in Stantalya

Tendrgoyevskaya, Krasnodaroldy Kray, Ukraine. la 18 a

ratirod Army colonel vorking in an epideniological station

as e doctor. Fus rosidonos at tus tina of Subject's de

Saotion vas Monoon, Badovo-Kudrinskaya Streat 26/40, Apt. 7.

SECRET

---

## Page 25

cd-idonor

SECRET

b. Mother:. Ilatalya fedorovns Chernovalora, Dee Alnuyev, bora

1907 1n Stantalys Teatrgoyerslays, Krassodarslly Xray,

Ubralne, She l0 a retired doctos ou persion und residos

with her husband In Moecor, Sadoro-Sudrinalays Streat,

26/40, Apertaent 7.

Jo Plyuicel deseription

ARRAETT aSA

Tnsght and veigat

• Cades of ejes

Jnlr

Toeth

Foeture

Tв0e

Complexton

Bcara

Bad 24

Cenorel appearance

33

33:

585 155 20B.

Croen

Blond

Ixtonsim bridgwrork: basieally poor

Breat

oved

rat

Bnallpor soar on uyper left aru

large

WIG, GRAMED

Prondnent features

Hone

denoxel physical condition Geen

SECRET

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SEGRET

• 10 -

Le Personal Deta:

Dubjoel was born 21 Juno 1618 1n Vionna, Amstria, ol parenta

"The wore professiend worters. From that lian unt Lecembe

1001, sutjoct ressied motosairely in Moncow (1055-1060) and

Molminto (1001), 1ibj008 Journaged lo delaint la 1081 to be men

hor parents, no her lalor was on haulguman Bbrond fer the

Border Mato socurly beroice, In Lecember 1001, subjoc see

panion bor parposa when they calocted lo the west.

Mo Educatien

An abldren do nol enter the forlor school nymem antil they

reuch seren youre of are, subject has not commund formal

sohooling.

1. Employmess!

Not appllenble.

& Reistress

D. Lether !

stono (ormarly Anatolly Mihallorlot

Solesya), Lora 25 Angue: 1920 In Pirymin, Mailera

Obinst, Ukraine. He was an operations alicer, "

Mnfor In the KGB, at the time of his defection tu

the West In December 1961.

formerly Svetlone Mithalleng

Calltsyn, noe Chernovalova, born I barch dat

In Salst, Rostov Oblast, R. & F.B.R. She la a

former morte script editor, now housewile,

residing with her insini.

SEGRET

3/72

---

