# 104-10216-10369

## Page 1

104-10216-10369

DISPATCH

• GLASSINCATON

SBCBET

PRO

POSED

XXX

Chles of Station,

INFO

Chief, WHi Chief, VE

FROM

Chiel of Station, JIVAVE

PRULESSING

ACTION

MANNED FOR ENDING

NO IDOLNA REQUIRED

ORLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUASTENS DESA

CAN ALDGE ERDEJUN

ABSTRACT

1 atICROFILE

superational/KEYWAY/PBRUHEN/AHOT ! AMLASH/AMFCRLD

O Madrid Contacts of Cuban Refugee Miguel de LEON Rojas

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required;

None, FYI

CITiCuLe A→Crile; nicue

1Y unar (zed 12: Cu paragraphs below is a report supplied

• who is in contact wit

various KUBARK anneto. The information was provided by Manuel

PLOPEZ Lourido, & parsonal friend of AMOT-2 10 Madrid and by ANCRAGI,

a merber of the AlOT GrouD, who has been in contact with usen tr

PLISHED

trips from the US, to Europe for the purpose of contacting foc

officials.

for his trips allegedly came from ANIORLD2 and

AMB IDDY-1•

3.

LEON was reportedly in contact with AM.ASH-z and ANLASH-

in Spain on 9 October 1964.

LEON also reportedly accompante

AMLASH-3 to Paris on one occasion.

Meetings with these individuals

allegedly related to AlASH-l's stay in Paris and concerned meing

of internal rebellion in Cuba.

According to LOPEZ, AHASH-3 is very dissatisiled at present

with the result of his contacts with AHBIDDY-1, as none of the thinga

they had agreed upon have been fulfilled.

LEON ta also allegedly

Issatisfied with AMBIDDY-l, and Indicated that the only reason he

mintains contact with him is because he has no other connections.

LEON told LOPEZ that he was in touch with Alsportal In

Spain who worked for a person with same true name as GROMSRHICROFILMED

MICROFENED

SEP 2 4 1970

Distribution:

- 008

to out pouch

3 - Cie acc diah wels/s

"THAY 1965

DOC. irICRO. SER.

LOU MORO 65B.

401-252234

65. 806

DATE TYPED

CS Curl

DATE DISPLICHED

APR 2 7 1965

21 April 65

0 08

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND PILSIDEN

Belate: trya a teratit

Agarity ad

3-201-759879

GASSIFICATIONI

BRCRET

UFGA 21144

HEADOUARTERS FILE NUMBER

129-6-9514

4058-787

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

→ ASSIFICATION

8B CBET

DISPATCH STMBOL AND NUMBLA

UPGA 21144

LEO! reported to ANCRAG) that he vas a close friend of

ANHIP! who lives in Hew York and who makes frequent tripe to

Europe and who 1a a friend of AMLASH-]; that ANTHIP-l wanted LiON

tO VOr WIth ALL. LEO alSO tOld INCRAGI that he had made arrange

ments and contacts with elements fros Cube, and that he has been

able to obtain very ueful sork pians and inforantion which he has

7. LEON Inforned AlCRAG) that on 17 March 1965 he had a

tolephone converestion with AlLASH3, during which conversation

AHLASH-S expressed his dissatisfaction and said he was soing to

request bla tranufer to Cuba to Join his group Inside. LEOR added

th-t he could still make contact with AiA35-3, but that at thi

Let told ancie that he had left the follering regise

monts La Burope:

Obtain the secret codes unod in the Cuban Embassy In

Madrid.

b.

Put a double agent into service 1n order to obtain

Information on the Party neta in the Caribbean ares.

Obtain a pernazent source of inforation on the entire

Caban Foretga Servlee In Europo.

According to LSON, all those requirements have been left ponding due

to ARBIDDY-l's unrOllab121ty.

Andrew X. REUTRNAN

FOR 530 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASBIFICATION

BR CRET

CONTINUEE

PAGE ND.

THO

---

