# 104-10256-10428

## Page 1

104-10256-10428

34Ü4Y

SECRET

11 May 1960

File T-46L9

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FE

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

VITATE, Coy, ru

stablishment of Official Cover Backsto

: Requert for Domestic Cover 2 May 1960

In compliance with above reference, official cover back-

stopping which utilizes the

has been established for the above-named individual. All Information

concerning this cover arrangement is available in the Official Cover

and Liaison Section, CCD.

2. It is requested that OCL/CCD be notified when this cover

arrangement is no longer required.

Any changes in the Subject's

Headquarters status should be coordinated with this office for the

determination of need for continued documentation and cover.

Subject has been Issued Unit ID Card No. 1205

domestic use only. In accordance with arrangements made with Offices

of Security and Personnel, the above documentation will be picked up

by a CPB representative for any Individual making a PCS move from

Headquarters or an overseas IDY trip. In the case of the PCS traveler,

CPB will return this documentation to OCL/CCD for disposition. For

the TDY traveler, this documentation will be retained by CPB and

returned to the IDY traveler upon completion of the trip. In the event

of a resignation from the Agency, OCL/CCD will obtain the documentation

from the employee at the time of the employee's debriefing conference.

/S/ PAUL P. STEWART

JOSEPH M. ADAMS

Chief, Official Cover & Liaison, CCD

cc: Personnel Security Division,

Office of Security

10402

SECRET

---

