# 104-10186-10300

## Page 1

104-10186-10300

INFORMATION-REPORT

INFORMATION REBORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

•SECRET

NO FORBIGH DISSEN

COUNiTY Cuba

SUBJECT

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTA

NO. PAGEs

REFERENCES

CSCI-?/782.061

2S June 1064

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. MaY

1904

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

FIELD REPORT NO.

ARR DEPIMITIVA

FAA OP COM

SOURCER

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The folloing report is one of a

serIes

containing personality information provided by the

source and includes supplenental information from the

records of this Agency.

1.

Rogello RODRIGUEZ LOpEZ,

who uses the pseudonyng "'duardo,"

"Casiniro," and

2.

RODRIGUE, who was born in approximately 1910, 13

five

feet eight inches tall,

complexion and blond hair.

1ra5, 2,3,9K3, bulld, a reddish

Headquarters Comments.

1. A usually rollable source in

• report dated 29 Marc

962 stated that Rozelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez is th

third secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City®

Source also

in lexico on 24 March 1962.

2.

In a report dated 14 February 1964 Rogello RODRIGUEZ

Lopez was reported to be the second secretary of the

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

- 5

1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

TOLA

I ARAT

REP CINCLANT

Mate: Fhald disribution indicated try I"

NAVY

AiR

CINCSO. # IGNS

WORMATION

REPORT

DH SA/ EOB!

I NE/5/R

II CILIA

TRYSA/HOT WE HADR 12'CI/R&A

TH 75A/R

110841

83/SA/C1

14

WH/MEXI

RID/AN

#N/WAVE

4

LE

**H/SA 7 (1), NE 1 (2), NH 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

414180%

904-999659

Tad

1FBI 2

JEORMATEO NIREBORTY

LX -

1526

NO PROJECT

(AMMUG 1)

CSC1-3/782.050N

ODDEDIA TIME WIN: LD: 0O

---

## Page 2

SECRAT

NO FOREIGN DISSIN

115! 2!1

3.

A fairly reliable source in a docurent dated d. March 1964

said that Rogello RODRIGUEZ, at thell

staff reeting, was given the assignent as Polstical

Reporting Officer.

In i report dated 26 April 1964 1t vas reported that Rogello

RODRIGUEZ Lopez, second secretary

of the Cuban Ambassy an

Mexico City, uses the pseudonyms

"Chele" and 'Corrin" with

his contacts in Mexico.

• On 26 April 19bl it was reported that Rogelie noDRIGUe, &

known Cuban Intelligence

service officer, left Mexico for

Cuba on 25 April 1964 for a permanent change of station.

6.

In the 17 May 1964 Issue of Hoy it was reported that Rogeldo

RODRIGUEZ LOpeZ,

second secretary of the Cuban Imbassy in

Mexico City, left Cuba on 16 May 1964 to retura to duty in

Mexico.

8. A fairly rollable source in a report dated 5 June 1964 stated

that Bakello RODIs the son of a Cormunist Party member and

second secietary of the Cuban lmbassy

that he (RODRIGUEZ) previously worked in the Foreign Office

Department matters in the latin American Politienl

Source also said that he thought RODRIGUEZ

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

