# 104-10113-10267

## Page 1

104-10113-10267

Office Memorandum

TO

FROM

Colet, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJBCT:

MarCOs DIAZ sten c/202923

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

Taugust a 959

or Set.

TS

ARS 2

on brAugust

1959, Mra

telephon caren

contacted the writer.

the brother or

the former cief of the Cub

Cuban Air, Forcer

now reciding In flortde under the

fictitious namer nich was util bea

at the time of nis entry into the United States.

According toMra

the subject is restaling to

Florida With his brother, Pedis DIAZ Lanz, Mr.

commune censed

ahove to the writer since this office had requested the tidivis.

...t.

Ion to promptly inforn this office when it was

contemplated to

surface the subject In order that such information

could best

to the Commissioner of Immigration and veturalization In accordance

with his request.

The Commissioner had previously Indicated that he

would arpreciate such infornation in order to place him in a position

to expect

Inquirier from various

eources.inc.ucings.congresslopal

Committees,

as to the menner in which the subject fri ved Inhe

United States.

3.

My®.

indicated that the subject had not been sur

faced, but since he

Is living with his brother in Miami, who of

course 1s well nown to the Senate Internal Security Comittee,

the possibility does exist that the cormittee might well become

aware of the subject's presence in the United States and he coula

become "surfaced" through no fault of the CIA.

1. LMr.

elso inentioned that investigators of the

Senate Interal Security Committee are still active In Florida

making Inguiries with regard to refugees

from Cuba, and he pointed

out that, oddly enough, WH has received reports that these investi

tetors seem to be inguiring as to the relationshiy of refugees with

the CIA, as much as inquiring Into the alleged Communist infiltre-

tion of the

Cuban Government.

state that it is the position of the Wil

Division that It

woula be preferable if we did not have to relay

the above Information pertaining to larcos DIAZ lanz to the Immi.

gration service in view of the unhappy situation nich developed

SECRET

720 2 72 3(c

(13)

Sai

Do

B

R

---

## Page 2

the ete to red cooth the lie eat on in t

tion and Naturalization Service as to the fact that the subject

Is residing with his brother In florida.

a. In the event an Inguiry.

16 received, How sr, from the Irmigration Service before a reply

Is made by this offices the Wii Division will be contacted.

Do It was again emphasized to Mr.

In the event It 18

decidea to surface Marcos DIAZ Lanz,

nowever that

should be promptly advised before the actual surfacing, in order

that ve may satisfy our connitment to the

Ization Service in this regard

the migration, and etural.

They aboverals for your informatIon.

Caller

Cotter

SECRAT

---

