# 104-10067-10373

## Page 1

1104-10067-10373

SECRET

8 February 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

Legislative Counsel

FROM

:

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

SUBJECT

•House Select Committee on Assassinations References to

Overseas CIA Stations

(U)

1.

Action Requested: That you approve one of the options set forth

in paragraph 11. (U)

•Background: CIA's participation in the investigation of

President Kennedy's assassination was limited by the pattern of Lee Harvey

Oswald's life.

He served in the Marine Corps in Japan, although he did not

come to the attention of the CIA at that time.

He travelled to the Soviet

Union in 1959, returning to the United States in 1962.

to CIA's attention until his defection was reported by the U. S. Embassy

in Moscow. He travelled to Mexico City in late September 1963, returning

to the United States in early October after a five-day stay.

CIA detected

his presence and reported it at that time as a routine CI report because

he contacted the Soviet Embassy. (C)

3. False allegations by a disaffected CIA employee claiming CIA-Oswald

ties in Japan consumed some of the Committee's time

and attention.

discredited his testimony, but in the process of discussing it, they talk

about the thinas he said. includina his duties in Tokyo.

We would endeavor to have

the Committee sanitize and downplay this section of its report simply

because of the discredited nature of the witness's testimony. (C)

If this is

unsuccessful, unclassified publication may become an issue.

Oswald's entry to the Soviet Union, with a visa given by the

Soviet Consul In Helsinki, leads to HSCA discussion

in its report of

and the file held on the Consul,

who was KGB. We believe this can be remedied by sanitization; if not,

it could become an issue if HSCA insists on publication.

(S)

SECRET

CRICINAL CI. BY -

13190

O DECL XI REVE ON! February 1985

REAC"'!

006406

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEORET

Oswald's visit to Mexico City and other developments there have

produced detailed discussion of certain events in HSCA drafts. One of

those intended by the Committee for unclassified publication has to do

with a man who made allegations that Oswald received money in the Cuban

Consulate for the purpose of killing the President.

This considers the

investigation of the allegation, with criticisms of the performance of

the Agency.

It involves detailed reference to the Station in Mexico.

The other section intended for unclassified publication has to do with

a man who flew to Cuba from Mexico City a few days after the assassination

of President Kennedy.

Again, there is extensive reference to the role

of the Station.

Another section referring to the Mexico City Station

involves detailed discussion of sensitive sources and methods; the position

on sources and methods is clear, but there is uncertainty in the Mexico

Station aspect. (S)

The present issue is whether there can be

some euphemism for

describing CIA personnel in Mexico City for the investigation, without

specifying that they were assigned there on a permanent basis, or whether

we simply oppose any references.

The Committee can be expected to contest

our objections to any references to the Station or CIA's presence there

for the investigation because the story cannot be told otherwise.

such references would mean

that these limited sections would probably have

' to be deleted or so emasculated as to render them sterile and incomprehensible. (C)

7. The Warren Commission report has only limited references to CIA,

Gula"Crediting it with reporting Oswald's visit to Mexico City prior to the

assassination, and obtaininig by undisclosed means a photograph of an

unidentified man.

Other information from CIA is not specified in the

report; while the press has accurately described those matters, the Agency

has never officially confirmed it. (C)

The Church Committee report, in Book V, makes 28 separate refer-

ences to the Mexico Station (not Mexico City Station), or its Chief, or

its communications with Washington:

While this is not publication by ClA,

it has the quality of official confirmation by virtue of being contained

in a Senate report.

The Agency did not contest this at the time.

the Agency subsequently approved references to the Mexico City Station and

its Chief,

in the book published by David Phillips, possibly because

already public in the Senate report. (C)

Staff Discussion: Since the Church Committee investigation, and

the approval of the references

in the Phillips book,

there has been an

increase in the sensitivity of the Mexico City Station.

While CIA has

come under attack

in the Mexican Press from time-to-time in the past, the

and the COS in particular recently have been the subject of a

campaign.

This is the first time that a COS has

been subjected

to a prolonged personal attack in

Heightened political

controversy within the ruling PRI Party has focused attention on the

Embassy and the Station, with allegations of bribery and other misdeeds

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGREI

involving high-level officials. Because of the political discord within

certain high-level Mexican officials have at least seen fit to

permit the conin ation of Mix campaific it see supporting and instigating

Their objective is to tarnish the image of other officials who are

political opponents and traditionally have been very supportive of the

Station.

The interest of the United States in Mexico's gas and petroleum

has heightened sensitivity concerning anything that may affect the

political atmosphere.

The official publication by any U. S. Government

entity of material which confirms the presence of CIA operations in

Mexico (past or present) provides new ammunition for renewed attacks on

our Station and causes considerable embarrassment to the GOM.

President

Carter will be visiting in Mexico soon.

The president himself has instructed

the Attorney General that there can be no references to the Mexico City.

Station in its prosecution of the ITT matter.

the President can

instruct a member of the Executive Branch on this matter, a formal position

from him on this subject, directed to the Congress, does not have the same

weight. (S)

10. The agreement between you and Chairman Stokes provides that when

we receive an official notice of the intent to publish, you have five days

in which to respond to him if you object.

At present, we have this inform-

ation on an informal basis and the five-day period does not apply.

Therefore,

this is posed to you in anticipation of a disagreement if discussions do

not produce a way around the issue. (U)

11. Our options are:

a. To seek some compromise by discussions; (U)

b. Accept some euphemism that suggests the presence in

Mexico of CIA people in 1964 for purposes of the investigation

without specifying that they were assigned there permanently; (C)

Categorically oppose publication of those sections

mentioning any CIA presence in Mexico. (C)

12. Action Requested: We intend to pursue option (a), but prior to

doing so, your decision on options (b) and (c) will be necessary to shape

how we proceed. (U)

- D. Buschimily

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

1 - DCI

1 = R. Holmes

DDCI

Legislative Counsel

ER

- OLC/Subj

DDA

DDO

1 - OLC/Chron

OLC/SDB/kw - 9 Feb 1979

OGC Attn: R. Rininger

LA/DDO Attn: W. Sturbitts

T - OS Attn: J. Sullivan

SECRET

006406

---

