# 104-10074-10036

## Page 1

104-10074-10036

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION:

y I copy of thie form)

PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

A Remanry 1965

FROM:

Olivie A 1221 m

A SATOS

CHIEF S

MINVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF: PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION: OFFICE OF SECURITY:

SUBJECT:

16h6

PROJECT.

CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM TAKA OR ALIASES

CO/OA. FILE NO:

NI 209 PILE NO.

201-767100

SO FILE, NO:

IL TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL

OPER

TIONAL APPROVAL"

SECURITY APPROvAL

COVERT SECURIT

CONTRACT: TYPE A'

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

PROP

COVERT

•SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field Inventia

CONTRACT, TYPE: D

•FULLYDETAILS OF

RA 10 requested for contact, assesset and poseible pso 09 en 24 88005

in Zeadgunstore 8/U progran.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Repreduce

INVESTIGATION AND COVER

COVERAMENT INTEREST MAY DE SHORN DURINO INVESTICATIONI

YES:

SNOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

U:S:

GOVERNMENT * INT

EREST IN HIM!

ts

SUBJECT

¡AWARE.

INTEREST ON MIM.

.. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE

ESTIGATION OF SUBJECT:

Mons

SUGGE

PRETENT• TO DE USEDTIN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

NO

S. PRO AND GREEN LIST:

STATUS

¡CHED.

16 4

DEROGATORY:

DIVISION:

TRACES

MON-DEROGATORY

• IELD

TRACE

ACHED

# 0-90

DRANCH CHIEF

NO

1501.0

DEROGATORY ATTACHEO

DEROGATORY. ATTACHED

87616

SECRET

10589

60)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RESIDENCBS

OCCUPATLOUS

PATERAS

SEBRAT

CRO PART I

Hessro BCHEVARRIA Valant

3 Beptember 1931, delibantea, Canguey, Cuba

Catan

2TC 8, Bedale, Galeago, Illnote

Prebantly cipleyad by Chloago Cruanit Antholte

Ponsorty cologod an a paytoll elort at a nellnery

La Galbalgun, Caba Subjeet left Cuba 6 doly 2960.

Evello BCREVARFIA Martin (201-767120)

SECRET

201-767109

Loneso

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

• SUBJECT (TYPE DAME IN. ROMAN LETTERS - SURNANE IN UPPER CASE)

0 1114na

2. ALIASES. VARIANT SPELLING, CTC NUMBERS. ETC.

201-767.096

CE/DA

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

3 September 1931, Jasbontea, Camegney, Onba

W. CITIZENSHIP

Ouben

PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION:

uployed by Chiengo Transit Authority

RKS: 2701 B. Rodsto, Catcago, linole

6 OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

REQUEST FOR GREEN

LIST

NAME CHECK N° 158449

DATE B. Pinhenary 2965

TO

CHIEF, F1/D

ORIGINATING OFFICER

NAME

OF ICE DESIGNATOR

BE/30/10$

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

751,6

196 TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

FURST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

UNTEREST IN SUBJECT A CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

• OTHERE

LOCATION

DATES

7. PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICES

ACTIVITY:

rior to Subject a departure be mas

exployed

as o peyroll clerk in e rafinery in Calbaiguan, Cube.

ha left Cuba D July 1960)

B. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION ADD EXTRA SHEETS: WHEN NEEDED

8. DESCRIPTION

• (HETGHT)

A WEIGHT

(EYES)

(HAIR)

(RACE)

91 04

(OTHER)

10 SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

11G OTHER MENBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

S96 N96F Z1

EVaLtO BCHRVARRLA Martin (rather)

123

FORMATION REQUIRED DEFINE SPECIFICALLYS

DEFINE SPECT REQUIREMENTS. TERKS SUCH AS "DEROGATORS MAX RESULT A SEARCH THAT DOES

ALL PERILHERE IUPORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS:

car 500 or

10591

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY:

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FU/D.

SEE CSI 10-7

SECRET

201 - 767409

MICROFICHE

DESTROY

AFTER USES

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

TO:

011vLa A

16 Feb. 1965

DATE:

FROM:

C.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FA/D GIOGRAPHIC MILES:

A MEMORANDUM US ATTACHED HERETO.

MITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, PO/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

AND HASINO 4

CRUEL INFORMATION ON SUBJECTS JE INFORMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE IT WILL BE REPORTEDATO YOU AS UT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT. OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE THIS SHEET WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED. SHOULD BE SENT TO EU/D:

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FID THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS AT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK, PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FU/D'S

FACILITIES WITH CONTIRUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FRON:

FU/D

DATE:

SHAME

OFFICE DESIGMATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

MICROFICHE

10598

MATER

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

9 February 1965

SUBJECTSB

HOReTO ECHEVARRIA aldvia

201-767409

Evello ECUEVARRIA Martin

201-767410

Adolfo ARRATE Cumerma

201- 767105

Jorge ARRATE Comeres

201-767403

Alberto.

J.

201-767408

Ricardo DUStYaS

201-767401

There are now mAys Station Crocco on bubicets

DEX UEGA 19599, dated 25 Janussy 1965.

obest Muchen

for

Johns. Fort

Doputy Cated, Valan,

Distribatlon:

Or1867

Addresace

NH/SA/103

Each 201 File

10593

201-767409

MICROFILE DEPROONER BAR

---

## Page 6

14-00000

MEMDRANDUM FOR: Chief

WE/SA/TOS - 0. A. Willars

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

NUMBER

201 - 767409

SUBJECT

[CHEVARRIA Valdulo, Homero

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

8 February 1965

Cru

A Provisional Operational Approval ls sranted for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval Issued by CL Staff grants the same

authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in an Operetional Approval unless othervise specified by CI/OA. / It 1s

based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and 1s sub-

Ject to a further final revlew when all Investigation is completed.

To procese the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ

Parts I and II must be submitted as soon as possible and not later then sta

(6) months from this date.

An Operational Approval will follow when all

Investigation to completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I

and TI. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by Interested Di-

vistons ceases:

FORM 125

0- 84

Dare Bu

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SEGREL

DATI

25 Fobruary 1965

201-767404 "

105 qu

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE: 25 Arguet 1965 015

MEMORANDUN FOR: /C/ER/CA

ATTENTION:

OLIvie 4. W13e

CH 201-757:09

The File on

1s cancelled

and closed in CI/OA for the tolloving reason:

Fallure to submit PRQ-IL as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to

Indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operati

use rot Subject&

201-06.7409

Enor to anya uture use of subjecti

Mt will be necessary to furnish

a new approval request (Form #772) to ci/cA

V0/Edrard P. Brow

готе, 691 •

CHIEF, CT/OPERATTONAL, APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRE

PEPRODUCTIONS

ATER USE

0595

MICROFICHE

DESTROY

201-767409

---

## Page 8

14-00000

FORM 0 • 323 A RIV.

CHI- CB

PORE

ВОСКАРНІС

MNIFORMATION

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Immigration and Naturalization Service

MAMILY RAMIS

FIRST MAMELI

(MIDDLE NAMES

THDATE (MO-BAI

NATION

AUG, 23, 1967 MGH)

ALIEN

POISTLATION NO

ECHEVARIA Valdivia, Homero Samuel

Pun2/3/32

cuba

N12 236 480

ALL OTHER NANRE USED

CITY AND COUNTY ME T

BOCIAL SECUHITY NO.

Jatibonico, Cuba

"391 44 5930

FIRST NAME

¡ DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OP BIRTH IF KROWN): CITY AND COUNTAY OF RESIDENCE

ГНкА

ECHEVARRIA,

Evelto.

3/21/05 Colon, Cuba

Chicogo, Illinois

VALUIVIA, Orelia

21/1/0s Arroyo Elanco, Cuba

Chicago, Illinole

REATHES

COUNTAY CY DIRT

DATE OF MARI

Santa Clara,

PLACH OP MARRIAG

Sanoti Spiritu

CASTELLANO

Teresita dep 1-3/49/36

Cuba 4/11/56

MIA SACUSES (I NONE, NO STATE)

Nons

DATE • PLACE OF MARRIAGE

DATE AND HI

PPLICANTS RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.

STREET AND NUMDER GIE:

CITY

• PROVINCE OR STATE!

OR COUNTRY

FROM" MONTH.

2701 16 Techte

chicago, Titon

2555 No Denses

CHICERS

AUlo

TO! MONTH

2952

Septe Pyor

APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. IF NONE, SO STATE' LIST PRESCHT CHPLOYENT FIRST.

NA 1002323A% 5500

-20-Ada

305-

SecuRiTies

-4602-12

Critaga sent reconner

-de dress

02479

Bio-Drives

MONTH

YEAR

SOS-

_ PReBCh TIE

dete

DOGG

LAST FORLION RESICENCE OF MORE THAN ONE VEAR: IF NOT BROWN ABOI

Capa del Ja

N00 Cabarw

(HONTH).

V93|87780

HID VERY IN BURMITTEE CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION TOR:

FI NATURALIZATION ED AGJUSTMENT OF ETATUS CO OTHER LASCIST

3290,15 NOT SHOWN

arz20e

#RON

(BONTED CHEAT

156

24 AUG 105/00

СВОЛОСТРАУ

8/23/67

Prepared byINS

nh

ON: CONCRALINO A MATERIAL FAST.

era phone call I INS lash - they he win all becket

лоне пероні.

/Sept 67 now

DUCTIONS

USE

HE

sos into concerning Subject, you, aro referred to the U.S. Secret Service (Reference:

Co-2-34,030, Springfield, Ill, dated L Dec.1963, Synopsis: This report concern rohiole

and driver'e license checke on euspecta Echever 1a and No:17: CO-2-34, 030, Birm ngham,

Alabama dated 5 Deg: 1965, Synopels: Homer S. Echevarria resided in Anniston. AlBo

APPROX SIX nonthe and was alleged to be unewployed furing that times and Co-2-31,030

MICROFIC

DES

Jackson, chigan dated 5 Decoy 953, Synopsies Lar entorcement agencies have no record

of suspect Homer S. Echevarade.

18596

---

