# 104-10186-10311

## Page 1

104-10186-10311

SINFOR

MATION REPORT

ENFORMATION RERORTS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-F-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS-311/05330-64

SUBJECT

Policy Guidance Directives for

Cuban

Intelligence Representa-

tires in Guatemala

DATE DISTR.

3 November 1964

NO. PAGES

8

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF

INFO.

1963

RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

Background Use Only

DATE ACQ. June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORACATION. SOURCE GRADIMOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

-Do Not Reproduce

SOURCES

A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Ileadquarters Comment.

The following is n translation of a

document which Source provided contrining the policy guidance

directive for Cuban Intelligence representatives in Guatemala,

prepared by the General Dircetornte of Intelligence (Dirección

General de

Inteligencia - DGL), MA Department.

The MA Depart-

ment no longer exists

having been divided Into two

departments:

Illegal Department (Ilegal) and National Libera-

tion Department (Liberación Neelonal

directive

to have been prepared prlor to the

overthrow of

President Miguel Yaigoras Fuentes.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION: GUATEMALA

IMPERATIVE:

1. - Collective action.

- The ficht for national liberation

Trainins camps and bases of operation.

- The mimed forces of Guatemaln.

5. - The Communist Party of Guatemaln.

6. • Counterrevolutionary organizations.

7. - Relations with the U.S.A.

8. - Position of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

9. - The clections.

- Movement of solidarity with Cuba.

11. - Repressive organizations.

4

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA

ARAT

REPCINCLAST

CINCSO =

(Norn. Field distribution indicated by "#t".)

MANY

I&NS

TAIR

INSA

INFORMATION REPORT

For Distribution See fached Pric

CUIS.

TOTAL IF 3, C1 21, RID AY 1, NH/SA 16(5), SK P,FI 3,141300*

WIl 23(31) AF S(8), EE 81102,FE

€ 12(8) NE 7619)

TAN:

TOcR

TFBI

2

RMATION

REPORT

TDX-1914

NP (AMMUG 1)

;CS-311/05330-64

---

## Page 2

lidgrs Dissom

#HI/COPS

Will/PO/A

WH/PO/B

WIl/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

WH/4

WIl/ 5

WH/6

WII/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WH/SA/R

WIL/SA/ Enti

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/N$

CI/Staff

CI Llaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/II

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PHI/I

FE/JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/1

NE/5/P

NE/G/C&I

NE/ Intel

WE/ 1

WE/2

1

1

13

1

1

5

5

4

pond G proud poons front front

I food focal

1

1

1

1

]

ford fred ford front

10/11

• %.

S-F-C-H-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- la .

KE/3

WE/4

WE/S

WE/BC

WE/R

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

Field Dissem

WHI/MEXI

WH/MNTY

1

1

1

found fres

WH/MRID

CS-311/05330-64

99

WH/SA/WAVE 5

Liaison Dissem

IEL

L/WTSH

18 1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

- 2 -

CS-311/05330-64

INTORTANT:

13. =

Internal policy of the country

13.

Internal situation

of the armod forces

11.

The Church.

15.

Structure

16. • Function, characteristics,

of the sovernmen nad doperation of des organsas.

on the members of the

foreign service

and of the accredited diplomatic corps in

the country.

17. - The press.

NECESSARY:

18.

State of the

National Economy.

19.

~ Belize.

LINES AND OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION: GUATEMALA

INPERATIVE:

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION

•) Agreements adopted in the OAS, ODECA, and CDCA to attair

a joint action

of the Central Ancrican or Latin Americar

armies against Cuba, of a political nature based on the

agreements of the inter-American system.

b)

Mobilization and preparation of the Guatemalan Army to

this end; men and equipment which would participate; .

units and the number of units; leaders in charge.

Movements and joint military operations in Guatemalan

territory together with the army of other Central American

countries; provocations intended to present Cuba's

aggression against Guatemala; means which will be usec

for this purpose; place and date.

d) Central American secret military meetings at which

agreements are

reached and plans are discussed.

2.

e) Measures against trips to and from Cuba.

f) Possibilities of breaking with Cuba by any Latin American

countries which maintain relations.

THE STRUGGLES FOR LIBERATION

a)

The guerrilla movement: groups, organization, leaders;

effectives, armaments, popular support, difficulties,

necessities, influence

of the Church and government within

the indigenous organizations.

Organization of the farm

laborers.

Yong Sosa, Paz. Tejada, and the PGT..

The struggle in the city:

groups, leaders, organization,

type of

work, work which they do, role of the student

movement.

c)

Resel tendencies within the armed forces; necessity to

penetrate these tendencies.

d)

Relations between the groups which operate in the city and

those

operating in the country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

3.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 3=

CS-311/05330-64

o) Relations of the exiled glements with the rebel novenent.

{) Present state and development of unity between the rebel

forces:

the Clvic Front, the COR, the Rebellion Bloc.

6) Permanent and periodic contacts with all of the forces of

the Left.

h) Position of the POT on the unification of the Central

American Communist Parties in regard to the development

of guerrilla warfare.

1) Position of the rebel forces toward the Cuban Revolution.

TRAINING CAMPS AND BASES OF OPERATION:

a)

Location of the Cuban mercenaries' training camps which

are established or are being established in Guatemalan

territory.

b) Organizations which are at the head of the training camps.

of mercenaries

camps; type of training and

its duration; mercenaries' zones of access into the

country: transport used for this; instructors; mobiliza-

tion and concentration of the mercenaries.

c) Cover under which the training camps operate and the

conditions of these camps; participation in the training

of mercenary elements of other countries.

a Lona of Peteriethoring camps: Poten, Izaons, Pallavum,

Bonqueviejo,

trained

or Campo, and Poptun; elements

there; number and nationality; type of training;

transports of

these

elements; duration of training;

instructors; presence of Yankee troops in the camps,

their role.

Plans and immediato objectives of training

and

if such was being conducted by the Guatemalan Army;

Yankee leaders in the camps.

e)

Training camps in other zones of the country; character

Istics and goals of chese camps; new camps of the army

used by the Yankees.

1. ARMED FORCES OF GUATEMALA

Armaments and transports.

eader of the armed forces

Estimated appropriations of the armed forces; appropria.

ions to each branch

c) Bilateral agrecments with the U.s.

Yankee military

missions in these agreements;

their role and function.

Activities devcloped by them.

d) Units and effectives of the Guatemalan armed forces avail

able to become part of the CDCA forces.

Participation of

the Guatenalan armed forces.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

c)

• f)

CS-311/05330-64

Unit's and strength of the armed forces with anti-guerrilla

training.

Duration of this type of training.

Officers

, who are instructors in the courses.

Manuals

used (copies):

modern amanents used.

Transports and armaments which

these troops have on hand.

Troops of RINGERS within the Guatemalan Army; units and

strength: duration of training; armaments and transports;

5. THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF GUATEMALA (THE PGT)

a) Position toward the Second Declaration of Havana®

b) Position on Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Position toward the lines followed by Cuba in the national

and international political order.

d) Position in relation to the disagreements in the Inter-

national Communist Movement.

e) In the case of China and the USSR.

f) In the case of Albania and the USSR.

8) In relation to the Yugoslavia-China-USSR and Albania

question.

h) In relation to Peace.

1) In relation to peaceful co-existence.

Inter 1e one the ate readers and data on

• k) Relations with the Leftist forces: disagreements; pos-

sibilities of union.

1) Methods of struggle officially adopted by the party.

m) Relations with the guerrilla movement.

n) Necessities of the PGT.

o) Work

In the

countryside.

p)

Relations with the bourgeois parties.

a) Party's attitude

toward the elections. Work carried on.

r). Work of solidarity with the Cuban Revolution.

s)

Publicity media of the PGT.

t) Permanent and periodic contacts with the PGT.

u)

Party's position in regard to the integration of the

Central

American

Communist parties in order to develop

guerrilla warfare.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEMI

---

## Page 6

S-R-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 5-

CS-311/05330-64

6: COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGASIZATIONS

a) Delegations of the counterrerolutionary organizations

which

operate In the country.

Lendors of the same.

Relations of the

latter. with the govornment of Guatenala;

oxisting contacts.

b)

Position of Jose E. Pedriza, relations with idigoras, pole

of the sane in the

training camps, participation or

latter's elements in training: role and functions of the

same in the Guatemalan Armed Forces, ranks

bilities which they hold.. Contact with Ydigoras and the

government.

c)

Organizations which participate in the meetings with

leaders of government and politics.

Contact of the

orranizations with the candidates for the national

presidency; and persons who carry out the contacts.

Conmunications between the branches and Miami, throug

hom, and what equipment is utilized.

7.

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

=) Alllance for Progress.

b)

Reintions with the United States loan organizations.

c)

Inited States military aid: rolo of the U.S. Militar

Mission,

raining of Guatemalan soldiers in schools o

the U.S. Armed Forces.

Political influence of the United Fruit Co. Nethods of

ideological penetration.

Radio notworks.

e) The United States Embassy.

Data on the activitles of the

mbassador and the personnel of the Embassy.

8. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTIQU

a) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) Regarding Cuban-Soviet rolations on mattors which nffect

Cuba and world peace.

c)

egarding the accusations that Cuba is a base of Communis

pression against Latin American countries

9. ELECTIONS

a) Electoral activitles of Arevalo: his relations with.

idigoras,

the U,S. Embassy and the bourgeols politiçal

parties

contact and rest organizations.

b) Electoral activities of the bourgeois polltical parties

and opposition parties.

c) The government's electoral campaign.

d) The activities of the Church in the election. Role of the

Auxiliary

Bishop Vario Casardego.

S-E-C-R-E_T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 7

1d-0d0d

J-I-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 8=

CS-311/05330-64

{)

Pressures and aaneuvers of the United States In Guat-

and in

general what can be known about the same

In other countries, with respect to the points above.

Information on the mancuvers for rupture with Cuba In

the other countries.

Influence of

the banana campaigra (companies? and the

United States on the clections.

h) Attitude of the rebel groups toward the election.

10. MOVEMENT OF SOLIMEITY WITH CUBA

a) Learn the capability of effectivo notlons of solidarity

which the rebel organizations have.

11. REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS

Guatemalan senders of the Central American intelligence

coordination, their task and functions.

b) Places where Guatemalan Intelligence has Its offices,

" plates the rece

and foreign advisers, persons who

operate with

the same, especially Cuban counterrevolutionarlos.

c) Objectives and plans developed to attain the same.

countries on, ne a

Plans

against Cuba, and internal repression plans for the

the area.

d)

Meetings of the chiefs and ministers of the interior of

the Central American countrtes.

Meetings of the chiefs

of military intelligence in those countries.

e) Leaders of the military intelligenco machinery, officers

and units of the same especially, internal repression

plans and attacks against the Cuban Revolution.

Coordi

nation existing among the various Central American

services. Persons who represent Guntenala.

Contact with Iaterpol.

Coordination existing with the

Restrictive measures on travel to Cuba. Agents.

IMPORTANT:

12. DOMESTIC POLICY OF THE COUNTRY

composition, strength,

• program.

Relations of the bourgeois political parties with the

U.S. monopolies.

The Embassy and the Church,

13.

INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

a) Groups within the armed forces inelined to perpetrate a

b)

Data on the military chiefs and their activitles.

c)

Work of the Auxiliary Archbishop Mario Casarlogo within

the

armed forces and

in relation to the armed forces of

other Central Aerican countries.

S-&-C-R-E-T

SO FELICY DISSEU

---

## Page 8

S-E-C-E-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

-7-

CS-312/05330-64

d) Data on the military sho aro in the international

organizations

(IDB. CY) and of the military attachés

in and from Latin American countries.

11. THE CHURCH

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy.

b) Position and relationships between the national clergy

and the forelyn clenir.

c) Participation of the Church in the domestic polley of

the country.

d) Secular organizations of the Church (Catholie Working

Youth, etc.).

• Campaigns of the Church: reasoning used against Cuba.

f) Influence of the Church in the education of the country.

States.

Illance for Provess.

h) Relationship betweer. the Church and the armed forces.

15.

STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNEST AND FUNCTIONING OF ITS AGENCIES

n)

Relations between the presidency and the ministries.

Data on tho persons closost to and most influential with

Ydígoras.

c)

The congress.

Outstanding porsonalities.

Relations with

the government and the United States Embassy and the

banana monopolies.

d) Judicial power:

Important laws.

Relations of

the

e) Mayors of the principal cittes. Data on the same.

FUNCTIONS,

UN.

•b)

OAS and IDB.

c)

Officials in and of the latin American countries,

17. THE PRESS

a)

Data on newspapermen and the periodicals. Possibilities

of using the newspaperzed in the country and abroad.

Data

n radio broadcasting and television in campaigns agains

Cuba,

and the radio lini nerork with the lnited States

S-E-C-E-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 8-

CS-311/05330-64

NECESSARY

18. STATE OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY

#) New

economic policy of the United Fruit Company.

b) United States Investmento.

c) U.S. capital existing in the country and its influence.

d) Trend in the unemployment level.

) The relations of Guatemala with a view to centra.

American

economic integration

19. BELIZE

a) Dispute for the territory of Belize among Mexico,

Honduras, and Guatemala.

b) Differences between England and the United States on the

matter of Bolize,

c) Plans of I'dígoras to annex Belize,

d)

Possibility of establishing a centor in Beltze.

NO

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGN

DISSEM

i

1:

---

