# 104-10062-10160

## Page 1

104-10062-10160

NO ARDEXING GIARIATO

ORLY QUALIFIED DESH

CAN JUDGE IRDEXTH

StalLo, Malico creat

4 1uт 14769

. CSM. 43-43

01)

August 1903

Silect

aldo sée Chief on

stey on

VLA:

concidentially ion 6 February 1964.

Whe Wishes to resid

Warod his present Job and orcentzacion effective

190k

male vants to Tenain in Mexico.

:4.29

He

mansar contract with KUBARk thien will painis nin to kcep his

ranent bey (connshine over 35,000,00 dollege anually plusis salary from

KUnCK cmial to his preconi, nelary:about $15,500.00 dollcas plus 1,000 an-

auto ror "overcina") plus school mad rental alloveneda.

White would mean a

Quit incon: tro: ODX01d of vich bee,000.00 plus schootio and rentel ellovence

Subject punked lie offere:

¿ho.

"ent top" lotela;

scollec; cousecur at in tarcis in lae tamopolita

Police of Monier Cier:

to mood contacte in toe Police Podorrud Directing

0. 100 od the Accoy Gaceel of the Republic ot Marico, coopera deod Contes:

as all lorels lu the offlee ds the Astoricy Gancard of the Ferozal. Dietrick.

A pro-partiger, covea do palcanon for Put Alcaier Dizaberce Coupsry.

Subices staces le co: get enignedo penero do criece eud ena conces cunt caou

22 60 drr

"scieplies

¡ob to appoca be un inboreobod Unia ducal nãditio:60

iao rotired incone.

il.

Billique? Sprnisi.

So DECEASE 121 D

Liloc.

" (contaited)

Diatribition:

28p812-70/410

RI/P1l03

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND

ic in

the

RECORDS OPPreSS STARP

incircos coral

The following action 1a

authorled;

Signed:

R. 02 $205

CLASSIFIC

0183

76176574

cite

psors and coordinate

I appropriates urd

0:4362

MOS FILE NUMBER

201-765711

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE M

FROM HCROFICHE SUBMITTED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSI

SECRET

• EYS O1!

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HMA 13681128

ready hen excessent contacts

novs tho Chten on, the Metropol-

stantons and ontor at Station knows

Generation the predare

othe station

haverisood

contact An there Acting, Attorney General row the,

Bir Encoct

collea

deve loned in heedod and veryereptaly

I Dosinber 1eCr

too, nonschan very

kelly.

ngercles

as cool he Ltch cuetavo Dily, ornas becomes Prostrient of Monico

and elecoming Prentdont Lo a close personal fiend of Cutof of Station, sò thet

cos tools itutory needed or dootreble broun can po costly estehitshed bfter 1

Dsculber Resha

cites of sunion therefore recommend tiet Subject be silved ther

KUBARK Rappedetoles Vors

shat hia brico is inr too

Should hovere e conmercial dol in Mertco or my other forcion ever

trot

but to Xa

much lower rate os per than die le requestn

•Ci

oDiay would need to be advised of his employers iy KUBARE in ery

capacity in Mexico vich Hould entail, contacts vtth the lous croups lie lina

Motely becauce ODiVY woula cortain learn of his continuod zelauions vivi

these croupe.

carly resistiould be anpreciated so then bogect vill tor voli in

civilice o

TION IS BEST OBTAINABLE

FROM CHOFICHE SUBMITTED

04368

---

