# 104-10175-10011

## Page 1

104-10175-10011

-•

SECRET

AMEN CLEON,

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

WFR.

FEB. E3

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2.

back. Detach back

113F

and forzard to

RaD.

2.

Destroy

front cove:

sheet, caless it

records

significa=:

actica

taken or

ccIneats requiring

presertaiies.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not

proper, izzert proper file no. below

and forzard docusent to RID/AN.

PREFER FILE NO.

Released under the T

ohn F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

TO

ROOM

CATE

CFFMER 5

RICKILY

ICANARCED:

INITALS

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SEETION I CUBACK IF APPROPRIATE

CCULE:TS

1.

03

WUH 46 BARTONT ES

03

RETURN TO CIA

Beckground Use Only:

Do for Reproduce

-

450

Burter

• DC/KH 3

GIN/ quat-

12.

Utila iREG

13.

WHIt PERETS

4-8 Does This horr value?

037

Fader.

Nou.

212io0

Quo

Tonis

copy fulled

jour

I su no tilie

X: E.

050

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICHOFILMIO

Flaka

12.91

610a

• LiSE PREVICUS

LOITIONS

ABSIRACT

INTER

te.

ТЕлЕтИ

FILE NUNBER

PRIMARY COOLI

OCCUMEN: DATE ER! -

78841

DUCUNCYT NUM

НИЧА

18090

3. Ra-6!

SEEKET

(40)

00

---

## Page 2

104-10175-10011

DISPATCH

10

: Chief, WH Division

HS: Chief of Station, Guatemala Ciry

3-9.907

: Chief of Station, Mexico Cit:

C - AMUPAS-I

AITON MEQUIPED

For your information.

HEFELENCESI

SECRET

HMMA -18090

EA-CUARTEAS PIE NE

P-

201-

3 November 1961

RE: "13-3 - 10H:0 X ONE

MARKED FOR INCONS

NO INDENTUS RECUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE SUDGEI

BY QUALIFES HO. DESK ONLY

i...

- "

On 15 October 1961 AMUPAS-1 provided reports about Guatemalans

whom she mes during her recent trip to Guatemala. Copies of these reports

are attached for your information.

Stillar ft Custs

31 October 1961

Attachment:

As stated above.

3 = WHD (with attachment

- Guatemala (with arrachment)

2-- Files • (with attachment)

eith

LE PREVIOUS EDITON

RERACES MORNS

97-27, 57-23A

AND 5.29

WHICA ARE CESOTE

SECRET

201-278841

NO

CONTRO

---

## Page 3

104-10175-10011

Reniro urdomes Paringza

12202 2005200%15

Arevalista

Aida Martines

anpedotes

• f

the old school.

introduced me to bia in quest of

about drevalo.

Colorless.

Nacienalista.

Bot

8 be

hate-sheet

type.

Acevedo

vere

listed

Armistao and vero persecued

Anti-Cosssnior.. 01800ugh

fold

wethat

bott

and

Cozuunieta by the Cassillo

a 8

such.

He cold me vich great

rementsont that the Conmuniate

around stories to ilscradit

.. - mrr.!.

aroralo.

88x

1=1.

BeTe Bell lerno Debrot

Presbyterian sinister.

Hare Antonio toot se to

aret hin.

I apode only very

uflefly nich hio, slosed

our appointeent

for an

interrier.

He norked vich the Pidelita

noveneut thale Pidel ves

in

Улетта Maeatra.

lo a cousin of dugusta

BeT.

Dobror

tele

d e

1 s

Mollined

sti

in

Pidellata

in

Cute,

touch

Cebo

•it

10 s

jUBE

вe0.

Dobrot to

HMMA 18090

COpy

in ad, want: 1

1-2

38841

---

## Page 4

104-10175-10011

1;

Carlar Leonides Aceredo

Like Ordanez,

deevedo sold me he had been peradested by

the Carillo AralEtar

sho called him a Consular.

Like Ordovez, too, be soid se tbe

Coasquiats are trjing

discrodlt Arenalo ly lorentiog storiro of his being bought

by the disteneses U.s.

Fasteras

The other serolutionaries all lold ne deeredo

man a san uho sade his nuney silhout steality but thay

do Dot consider bia a revoluti. sary.

Hasy of the revoluti carlos think deeredo bimself bas

nattlinna do hornoo prosident and they literally scoll

at l-e idea.

05452

2-79т., 71.

---

## Page 5

104-10175-10011

1*.

Francise

DiputadolVillages braser

Has just returced Iron s-viet l'alod und Chine on

Leonsuedro tasy rac. la ander allock by lue nalo-cheer

anti-communists.

tri: a8

Villagran Krager in his don

man.

obviously ho is a soesaliat:

(Norman

Thomas type) portainly not a Coumaniat

nor

fellou

Eraveller.

•He satur apoke vich de on enree different occariono. Poico la

blo DoDo, and vice at a

dinner party loabel arranged lor de.

Companisto, to arbenz.

even to Brovalo when the

occasIoD arises.

Homever, lia s8 noef privolous, but rther takeo the fazure al,

Guatenala very serionaly.

He did sor benitare to contradier oertain inforsation Jaine

Die?

suarora and tdelb.rlo torren hijo ladgiven no.

1l8hnogb he soled a bit of lun at arevaio and ducetisea rolarsed

to sla as Dos jaancho or lbe diba lituronado, be repentedly

anured no that be nao ireraliata.

Do soir Arerale, is to regurao, cou either be -- miltone a doube -

stones si clerido or el aran elector.

He lese me a copy of jebsender's Communion in Guaterble.

Playfully. Homerer, it la very clear chas Villagras Kramer

entirely lude: endere of, and quire critical of, lte Consumiato.

Un the other cand he is not an

anti-Comansist,

siuce be is

just

not

siaple-nixied.as

80

inagire lint

i a

lhe

perfect

or bese

ung to deposale the cood

people troo

bad

ones

Vallesran Kramer and More dulo

....c...

priasetros

otier.Guatpi.alr

Lopipnello

Paz y

Paz who

and

Parurabie comments.

abour

= he

trip

'...".

hea

red

The unly bine of craticise

enoughi.

Vallagras

Kraper

becaunp

he

bad

an

¡y. to

casiarese

180s

BALIBE

---

## Page 6

104-10175-10011

Mnseril8cn1d.611la905_Corcrerne

started polarical cureer so l91i, onen lf.

past polirical

pareira.

201.8.re - 9128

27 e5190: 4.;

Das lie in inls.

To..k

-uadeadla's leadine def-nder

of calaun

ebarred ae

outeradlag roung aar. -n test

al revolutionarina.

lle

talked

sitroduced

в е

Carlon Fiar.ene

hotel.

in short,

DIe at ay

"rouse.

sie

enla de hel

Hevalued and:

she dad hereroisor.

ne

lenger,

t.p so d

Juach,

+ 13 %

Her. Guillerme lebrut. tuxuders de

came to

vISIt

BLOTe -- 56s.

ne al

siBe

IS OPE

DOJE IINCION8 C01149.0т.20рні

darC Antonio is yurer, reli

very sell-confilent. lle

Cre Guatenalan

revoleras

ahould set

example -- harrot;,

s.. unared, well aroien, dal

o:ka.12e8.

of errors

and

evile lial crept loo

balure.

considera

Arusel:

are of

those tho

frieslity, etc.

He eriticired

Arbenz and

In Arbens gover dent. dur

himself if

he

is intereated

apoke fran

he

told

in

doing

•de elal he fell argesz

во.

He is nol-Areraliara, on

Новаст..

he

w1ch

great

respect for

Trevalo and

recogurred :fat

conald

overalalidudly detes!

may olber

candidate.

He alao assur

-d

1 18

moudd Doe

fight Areralo unleas

they

gh0n11

8et

the

idea

he

i o

coalizled to ibe

Lano Saare Dept. la sayo

they

ron'l axpect dia to be

ad céranced socialiar

but they mould

noe enierble thocher beranconre.

Нагсо

Arconio told de he

io Marxiar

but be

insirred -- and rarious. of

nia afrienden nould beea

to bear

is out --ee he la quile indepondent

Iana the. Concurists.

: 1

He del podel bere ln lexico, nas greatly impressed by slo lien jand de

"Fidel

1.

I reapece".

Ml s

1 us film

---

## Page 7

104-10175-10011

MarciAutonio Villanar Contreras

3262120907

D7ZEУ

Marce Antonin la not at all oriented

Lonard the sovier Bloc.

Re lo mery nuel interrstid

in ay putrirg tin

in taoch •ith

He said at one point. "The beat teorico for Latin Americas and

ous problema lo nuch nore lihely lo cone fros progresiire elesento

in the U.S. thas

fron the Saviet."

He to urry unttine nighly

regarded by all otber revolnti-parien

thou l met. Thes pasadeo hia couragenno, a san of superior

pranciples, ele., and definitely one of their

nen

of she falure.

Everbody cold De he had

heen

a brillions student andfbes

had giren un his career en desate himoell sill cine to

the rerdlutione

He liven modestly in an

61d fashioned roshline houde in che ardale

Pone: 1 beisere le sad

it belongo lo his alle. le bas. Bereral

chidren.

Al the monont be is pite

store of sumir, he tuid se.

Doenn't

hare a decrosery decause .

for the famil lime in

ail tiese year!?

he can'e afford. one.

He urged me to come back ano! to

los mis take de sound the condery

lo sabe a fuli aludy of le siluation of elie country.

de audiented

l could live in the boses of ene

dutionaries

andi

auuld

nol hare

expendes.

He save ne a nole lor a

ririgenie

mierobus: didr'e

thronad dintia.

lo deulla, bue 1 book the

I promiood

to

nend hin

onteri.ln on Cuban

reralurten.

To sivo in

tensaroz an ides of

filent

Al Arrrridano: Mare docnio,

uf

1.6 60r0813

rerolli.n. flvA, sold that sany of dies

se lio 4.."% obo ver

derribly durine castillo demiano and or.

vers tort.

---

## Page 8

104-10175-10011

---.

Did be remise tit

Carlos Bianchi

Pas. lirand M

'er

lold ne he

never

active

is politica

antil Castille

Armas jailed bin lor hariag

arreals

20 Masonry

around

che sorld, to try to pretent

overlaroo ol

gor't in

1954

--

that io, for denonncidy che

it was

still:

in preparatory stagos.

50.

is

he berame anareof in! inter...cs

jail, among

i s

r'se

lae revolutionaries

poissionl

iit•.

At present he worke vich bare Antonio Villagar in

of the P.U.k.

the o: gani2:ag

Lest

Debror.

!-1-Hata9Ed

BIanca is Areraliata.

He sensest spole tilh admiration of

Arevalo.

He went so far as to say that not caly could drevelo

•in eleceion bania donn, but also anybody be openly supported

could in lande dorn.

1 visited his

at his house. Later

spt.

he called

a t

no mor. p.

---

## Page 9

104-10175-10011

Precion:. 91.2.0

1

•S

S03M& 200X 2273r

Edelberto Torres, des

He case to see se at lie hoiel, had lunch rich

=0.

He had only learned the day before, cane l mas is toos.

add that day (Satnoday! I choaghe 1 mould be lenring

the follo.ing moraing. so we did not vet back cogelher.

Later he seat ae live litule bookdate and a letter for his

mother. la the letter be proposed she get in couch vita

Late nake arrangementa

Chiebi to be taken to the l'atria mayor to be treated

medically.

He looked very sell, dae

dell dressed, He told se be tas

day, as do parted, he vas expected at Jaina Dias'o place.

Alda Martires

io the one

who

pat se in toued vith Bdelberto

Bos 00nd An far:

---

## Page 10

104-10175-10011

S:

Doo Hodrigo deterios

(don is not title, in port of given

22 youre old. Dos of Miguel ingola dacuriao, us. poetonovadior-prot

Slighely beary, sall, quod looking, black hair, fair coupleados.

Married to Maria del MoBario _Bolivian

girl, shos he net

in argentina. she is three years older than he, very strikinz,

brunoste, tall, blah cheek bore.

but light camulerios.

Hodrigo do studyino lam ne bo lairersily in Goatemala.

Is a lender of

she group sapporting Pidol and Cuban Rerolution.

as the priacipal iasti

Lie week of the

sia group vere killed by the police.

De is also active la sational politica.

The Susday I was

surere.

"e mene alet HercAndondo Villaner Contreras do evillado, and Held

• aPelinE of 500 farmers. He vas one of cha speaders.

Mo and blo milo (ahon he and other friende call "Charro") belonged

le :le poo-tidel droop in dossus apreo, 1o0. Thry spoke of haring

bees invired copreception lor sorticos, jodro Hirer, Alaeido, ete.

They shoned de pledges of some or their gross de close

ittends

noverinene, they told se.

They bed not beard

of

big

Mayorga vas also

ete,

of about three

i a

vecke

delu

---

## Page 11

104-10175-10011

11

miserates

joine Dies Moszor.

duganto lolliaedo (jellecer'e

siale.) took

me to see

hi a

pre-arranged meeting at

the

tome

• l

father,

Don Jalse.

At ene

point sor talka

interrupted

by

ube arrival or

•on and, use by one, l/saaber of olber

jonig eludents.

IroB

Humanidades. He conaulied dist

thea briefly; later

•LeArDed:

they had been deciding, for sore,

to nominate him

SOr MeCtoriol

tbe University.

He bad a bandage on tio face.

le said il vas froo an accidesy.

Auguela cold so, hoter:r, ubal be uas really assaulted by feliales.

or olher enemies.

burt.

Le bad bed a see sticabes, sue dao not derspees,

He gas

the one Guatemalan uhn spoke mits frank colduess

lovard

Arevalo.

Don Joine gave se his dauphrer's adareas mere in beaco

(ASA SATE

Pennesitania

222 -4, Colonia Sapoleal and sugf

1 get in louch sier tina ber.

jaime Dias ass cordial, oulising. But not domari. at farendly.

•* all uy alber contacta vere.

Be also voo the oniy one tho

raked me, toward the eud of our overation: "l could like lo

bear your carriculon-- referriso lay voiilicai background.

Sirting

---

## Page 12

104-10175-10011

9278225943

LOSBOrA PER Y PAR

I vialted her at bee boiso.

the Saries Union and Chisa.

She had juse returned tron

She liros confined to a abeelebalrol Mado the trip in de,

and has boon saking apoebes la Guarenala.

Is under attack

by the hate-aboar group of counter-reridationaries.

Hy oun opiatos of chia poor girl lo thre she la so broataloes

in her

adalation

for the Soriet Union and

for. dre

Cabas

she due criting for anewparte, rec

recently

LOBO tLe

job.

Her Inther is a laryer.

ipparantly be

Castillo Armiodas,

420222

---

## Page 13

104-10175-10011

1.°

dalia de Deleza

*Schorldencier.

Has son, driel, aho belo.po in Cossuni

Party, 432875928 AURaILA COld

1 uns told ehe deed lu be a very

Arbenz governaesis.

to plecure her inapiring croode.

joguids orator

duriag

Hus one is ter! fat and it io

2 r

bard

she had beer told

dredalo

had

to the state dest. (l...)

tor

lo come back

to tuateral.

••

Honores, then !

protested,

she

gratefal to bear that une

Hya!

sold Tiburoz

the Sardineg

fartune and

that ie

HA8 B0IDE

4h:

qualonala.

1788

very saebr liered and

"& 8

not trae.

she sood ne so seet trevalo's

and brocker.

Sbe sold so she has had sereiai invitaci.co

sovier linion bur char her husband

who

BEECe tO ber

ROINE.

60

is a doctor

vIsit

the

not

Side tide.

---

## Page 14

104-10175-10011

Enaberto Go:zele8 JaBroa.

Fancies biseell the sunber ose Arovalisto, Aldo toid ot

• A* ceB

call upon political aspiort all over Guaterala.

Hero al

be alter corolutiouadios mily aboa I apolo

baro

OpIstOs os hollied Joar-s. The pereral

attitude

is that

1277.07 2090

does

seended, by

th- Arbens

he belong

1a tbe

revolationary

He

BYEA

seTeral,

of having

beenas BIilly of Boney-sakisg fron

regise

as Martines ot

the l'as ous.

My own judasent

voald be

that he

ie a bit

of & braggard. One

evening

when

he

vas quite

well

along

hi e

cupo, his

savo se the nictara

6. 60

•to couid

do Aroralo moro baralibas

EB01

by

bis connection

wits

him; even if he io

not dishonest, ho

se definitely

AD

idealiar.

No is entrenely anti-connenies. also

he attacks Arbens

Be to perlectly (latDergabled

because

recontly denied..a

Tida to go to

thetis.

ewo 1llegitinare. cndlar.s..nere

children

u.s.

Bass sy,

he cold. ee.

• :

abour a hall dusan

childira by bia marr. ane.

to.8

..vilo fron

provincer of Geetarado.

Prou

sanarko ubeE

drinking,

I got the improsolon

some

that

TErY

08 blo

nakes

Lonely.

preteuse

of fiúelic5.80..ror.

---

## Page 15

104-10175-10011

18.33

ji.!

Guillerno Paglieri

Adl the Consumisto rejeat

the stary

HomoTor, Mare Astonio ape.ks

al che idea no might be

dislogal,

criticizes nia for being

raia,

etc.

Guillerao ia morking as diector of a radio

Hamberto Gensales Juarez'&

Paillerno ascurod de be do Areralista.

Pollecer told

nedos .t

and.

acoffa

altho-gb Maro Antonio.

800.

.............

taropo vic alo brouder bue ¿rigoridia darai.

Be offorred

to send nes

"dedico

Вок. «Зела

---

## Page 16

104-10175-10011

.. 4.

Pallecer de

Sinter of Carloo Massel Pellecer...

A la a

dion.

Kibd,.conolderste, gentlo-anopriad, soft-hearled.

hard-workisg, andero andisg dosan.

Also

Bad looking.

Socas to be very

auch in love

vita her busband.

Vary

good I-lationo altb

Bon.

Excellent

relations

with

revolationartes, illtos

who. one deeds

have befrsedded

• 901!8

•peroonally as pose dark

bour.

She is an

insaculade housekeerer,

bas no

Нег бов,

The a e

Fer baaband, Surge Mollinedo,

has

RID CADO.

Ho is bandaido,

very

type. Worked in Arbeas

gove

Ingest

sicknane io Colorado, lo a Stadest delunireroity.

listle factory that produci

friendly, outgoing, home-loring

till Auguaran and Jarzo

•peak

vitt

great respect of

drovalo, bol they are clerrly.

closer

adeacified

with

Arbent,

shay --like post ocher revolbitonatres -- call Jacboo.

jorgo is do good-scariné

that

ne befriendod. doi.."onson sies

Monzón torned op is exi:e

i a

Coate

Reea during dor8e'o

ova onio

there. Monson sas the lo.

traster

8o Arbens, Jorge told

bul be fell sorry for him

hen

ali the cober exiira troated bin

•itl anteapt in Costa Bica.

(Une nigat l vas vich Jorge whes ve

Tan IntO MODIOS by accident

in a gasolive atalios bongos

- .

attilade with Jorge boro

out

the

story.)

for the

bao, lent no sacros a

608 ap

at live in the bording

buatle abour presaring brratlaar

for

and.

a present of a

little sitter-pearl broche

Bo hold

doun

Bear!

dos through, 3850100lack

• 1

order to

cate

a a

old

AraTalo menenBio to gare

B. -. Í.

shure!

, sar

Weft or her

•ay

treat

..

well.

Sho took

of tbe

saally.

meet Carlos Manuel'e faller

and s. d

including the mom tractionary

• sister

•h.

Collaborated

ended firman a drey Pascalaces, whe

lein alan,

---

## Page 17

104-10175-10011

11111.

She had

beas expecting as for a

she introduced no

perolatiocerica

areralo'a all leas-reralationary

south,

very solicitons

& 8

ella to

for 01

friends.

•she in very devoted to bon

Bdalberto.

apart Mcra25

She do definitely an

Ar

та' i g

She apeako of the Conanniata as though abe

mere quite

Hoverer, obe la appar. ably liked and trusted by thea.

has a very orra

bag kiron

priendship vit: darco Arconio and laabel.

Isabel

alice lambel was l4 Jeure old and dida

та8

her

Lascier -- saba time that lashel ael Doo Edelberco.

---

## Page 18

104-10175-10011

... 1. and

Ieabel Fontaeite de sabbat

Isabel

1a very enthusiantic

She is luviled li

se dori- Unina (ras invited for vetober) and intends to go

1n. May wich her huaband.

Morever, she speaks of Cossunirto de

though abe more pol alfliindod sith then.

She adores Dea Adelberto Torreo.

She adaires and supporta Arevalon.

she defendedre Cubes Berolutiod, but is willing

and fren sine lo tire citizizes

sobething hereels.

near critician

she has recently bees elected us

the

one atudent on the Junta

Directiva of the Facultad

de lonaridares. Sbe vas the candidate

of the liquordisas bur seyo

she receired many voies frou the

conserratered, she takeo thia very deriodals.

Her basband/ is

not epposed to socialass (Norman -Thuane tije)

as ouch but tabes the setilude that pertainly necessary charidai

zanid be gade

ichie she

ranitalist eyeleg, thee goat dieterbo.

his lo losa ofpe coral freedos and

recourse to cosits, ate. This

he argues openly old her.

Significant about isabel 18 her

wara friendship with Guislerso

Paglieri.. Uhen sue ieard the sane changes

Pellecer repeated to

no, nits regard to Guillerao, she dolended him at the Undoorsity

and has asint..ined very dura relations pich bia.

It vas ste sho

called his and put din in couch with se.

8 be

in quite close sies Diputado Villagraa Kraser and hia mila Hutt.

She.

told me she vas a

good Irsend of aper Angel Bous andibel

hid dador she same

table uben tbe plodes case over during the

they

she expecta lo drive ap to Mexico very sooa.

She: Bade as

naaber of appointeents for

sereral lines.

no, entertained a

51. Lane elif i beg ridin

---

