# 104-10186-10090

## Page 1

104-10186-10090

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

•Do Not Reproduce

HINFORMATION REPORT

VINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SE CR

.E.T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRi- Qub

SULECT 11 quel

Angel LNU

(alias

"wtruel")

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

RERERENCES

CSCI-318/00505-65

4 Debruary 1965

1

CS-311/00115-64

(page 6)

§ July 1984

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & "ashington,

DATE ACO. JAnUITY 1901

HELD REPORT NO

THIS 33.001

AVEDLAN

POLICION. SOUSIO

DELINGTIME APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

souRc, A former Cuban

officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1064-

Headquarters Commente

The following report la one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuale nentloned in the personality reports althout

first checking with this Agency.

1. Miguel Angel LNU, allas "Miguel," is an officer 1n

Section B, Central America, of the Departmento Ilegal (Illegal

Department) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence • DGI). His salary is $176 per

month. He resides at Jovallar No. 1, Apartment 33, Habana,

Cuba,

and his talephone number 1s 79-2788.

Miguel

Angel LNU

carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of

Interior.

2. Miguel Angel LNU is & Cuban citizen and wag born in

1930.

Ho 1s

five feet seven inches tall, weighs 140 pounds,

and has & slender build.

His complexion

Is white: he

has

black hair and oyes, thick eyebrows, and a thin face.l

Headquarters Comment

The recorde of this Agency reveal no identiflable information

on Miguel Angel (Alias "Miguel").

4/TV

STATE

ARMY

REP

CHICLAYT

(Nola: Field disprobation in dioniod Do 1#*.)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

I NAVY

TAIR

INSA

CINCSO & INNS

incho stor

113X

I oca

I FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORTINFORMATION REPORT

UH/SA/EOS UNS'S/R

CILIA

ITEL

IX 2290 & LX 222K

15C

3UE

NO PROJECT (AMMUG

L/MASTE

CSCI-316/00505-6

MISA'C

ILLA/AN

TOTAL WH/SA 8

(1), NE. 1 (2), CI 4, RID I

LIAISON E

COORDIAATINO HELEANINE

BiLS: Do: s

10.h1

FIRE MA

---

