# 104-10128-10364

## Page 1

104-10128-10364

SECRET

chief, Contrace personnel DiPleton

Deputy I

MAN 20,1956

* in.

DO5/185

P. Chief

Chief

Chief

740596 30;

do:

Reference is made to your request dated 20 January

1956 for, a Covert Security Mearance to peralt appointment

o subject to star/ Agent operations officer at Havana, ViDa.

т..

2.. In accordance aith the provisions

set forth in

the Director's Henorandus of L, February 1949 entitled

"Securfty and Operational Clearances," a covert security

clearance is granted for the covert use of the Subjeet;

described in your request as set forth in paragraph f1,

above.

This will confirm the Govert Seenrity Mearance:

granted telephonically to Mr.

CPD X-3585 on

26 January 1956.

05

Subjeets of covert security clearances are not

to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented,.

a8, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a covert

security clearance does not

constitute complete compliane.

with the provisions of cia legulation 10-210.

Therefore,.

If you should desire at a later date to change the status

or use or this individual,

a request for clearance to cover

any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

***

This clearance becomes Invalid in the event the

Subject's services are not utilised within 60 days of the

date of this nemorandum.

gir:

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITI:

Robert

CC

sy March 1956

CLOSED

RETURN TO CIA

Background Us.Only

Độ Nọt Repreduce

SECRET

---

