# 104-10217-10171

## Page 1

104-10217-10171/

. REPORT COVER SHEET

FROM

IMHAVE

REPORTING OPTICIAN I

Victor

REPORTE OFFICER

Ta SUCHARA

MRN SCI

Margaret R. NANKALlcD

APPROVINO

alone streat

Andrew K. REUTENAN

BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMEAT™:

TYPIC

Source: AMCONCERT-] from Nelson RODRIGUEZ.

RID: Please index•

SECRET

DATE UF REPORT

REPORT NO

3P

UFG-6415

RD. NO.

23 December 1964

PROJ.

B'CE CR.

HQS

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

MICROFILMED

JAN 5 1965

DOC, MICRO. SER.

2013

•SC 0 119660.

OPTIONAL: INTRINA BELOW NEHO NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

* • Has.

- JABARR

out pouch.

PASH EAT

MOS RI COPY

*3D19-300-3

FORM

8-00

1467

SOBE

PERHOUS

EXTRA-AGENCY

Miami Reps:

1 - State

1 - U.S. Coast Guard

1 - Border Patrol

- FBI

1 - I&NS

1- Customs

NO. OF ENCLOBUREE

REFERENCES

PADA

DOI

SECRET

CS COPY

NO, PACHE

201-269349

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE: A: Completely reliable.

D: Usurity robable. C: Fauly reliable. D. Not usually reliable.

E: Not reliable.

lo sources of doubitul honesty er levalty, regardeis el their competencel.

i Reliabilly cannor be judges (Applies so uneed or instie,

tested sources).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT. l: Confeed by alher independers and reliablo sources. 2: Probably true. 3. Possibly true.

false.

6: Cannot be judgod.

A: Doublet 5, Probatte

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Ct

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NG.

@ SUBJECT 1.

Possible Use of the Finca

DATE OF REPORT

23 December 1964

Guasins, Hatanzan Province as &

Reception Point for Bloy

NO. PAGES

2

Gutierrez Henoyo

Taminent Infiltration of Cuban REFERNCES

Exiles Allegedly Involved in an

DATE OF

INFO.

Assassination Plott?

8 December 1964

PLACE &

United States, Miami

DATE ACO. (16 December 106

101 6415

THIS IS UNEVALUATED I FOUAT.ON SOUPCE GRAD:AGS ARE DIF SITIVE. APPRA SAL OF CONTENT IS TESTATIVE.

V..

SOURCE:

A Cuban exile who was prominent in polities at the provincial

level in Cuba, source is well known by the Cuban exiles and has

reported objectively on their political maneuvers.

occasionally receives inforation directly from Cuba.

reporting has lacked depth.

This Information ms obtained from

Nelson Bodriguez.

coziles

on 8 December 1984 Nelson Rodriguer said that his brother,

Rodriguez Gonzalez, had entered Cuba gLandestinely in about October

I order to arrange for the reception of'fleyfCutierrer Menoyo, Eur 161379

mattEr Leader of the Segundo Prente Nacional del Becabray (SiNS,

(Second National Front of the Bacambray) wand some of Gutierrez'

Reynol made this trip with a group of friends and entered

Cuba via the finea La Guasins, part of which borders on the Bay

of Cardenas, Matansas Province.

Reynol has made several trips

there, not only to exfiltrate personnel but to infiltrate them

as well. Nelson and his brothers vere born on the finca Guasis

have many contacts in the neighboring areas.

To? Noel alastormer leutenant ln the Rebel Ary, has left for

Cuba; he 1s a member of Gutierrer' group.

ISENE

Nelson, who arrived in Miant by boat in about August 1964, 881d

that he night leave for Cuba boon to try to exfiltrate his nother

and brothers. However, he will probably also take some men in

with his who are collaborating with memberg of the Cuban Rebel

Arny 1n a plot to assassinate Fidel Castro Ruz.

ті t

CONT IDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSE

barteded to moses

DISTRIBUTION

NOS RI COPY

1: 1941.

-===

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

-2=

0PO 6415

eld Comment: According to

dated 8

October 1964, Reinol Rodriguez conzalez had been missing

fron the Miami area since about 21 September. It was

runored that he and two other persons had joined Gutierrez

at his canp.

2.

Source Comment: Nelson Rodriguez, who is 18 years old, 1g

the nephew

0f Roger Rodriguez Sosa, husband of Lucia

Echeverria Blanchl, the sister of the student martyr, Jose

Antonio Echeverria®

field Comment: According to

1964,

dated 20 May

Salas was one of three members of Gutierrez"

who were believed to have left Miami by 17 May 1964.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

