# 104-10123-10138

## Page 1

104-10123-10138

68 122. 174

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Agency Contact with the Inmigration and

Naturalization

Service on Bchalf of Mr.

Johnny Roselli

1.

Reference is made to a request forwarded to the

Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C

Richards, Office of the Inspector General.

The Subject

of inquiry is based on a request for information, made on

1s March 1974, by Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel

senate Select Committee on Presiden 1.1

Campaign Activities, to Mr. Lyle L, Miller, Deputy Legis-

lative Counsel.

Mir. Lenzner cited

a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers to contact between Mr. Lawrence

Houston,

then General Counsel,

and the then Attorney

General,

Mr. Robert Kennedy,

with the intention of

"quashing

of a Grand Jury organized crime indictment against Sam

Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana)." Mr. Lenzner is under-

stood to believe this reported contact and the circumstances

surrounding

the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Giancana

during President John F. Kennedy's Administration were being

surfaced in 1971 as part of an effort to obtain blackmail-

type information on certain principals in the Democratic

Party. Mi. Lenzner specifically requested information on

Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating

to this matter.

2. The files and records of all individuals

with the planned utilization of Mr. Giancana vere searchadied

These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maneu, who arranged

contact with Mr. Giancana through Mr. Johnny Roselli; Mr.

Richard Cain, recently deceased, who was identified in the

press as knowledgeable of Agency association with Mi. Giancana;

and Mr. William King Harvey, retired Staff

emplovee, tho

icted as princinal contact witu Mi. Rosella quiing tha

late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselli's incarceration.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 061142

SEX

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Additionally, the files of other individuals associated with

Mr. Robert A. Maheu were also searched. These included, Mi

Peter R. Miaheu, Mir. L

and Mr.

currently an Agency contract employee, who was utilized

during 196S and 1969 inl

arrangement provided by the

undes

a commercial cover

organization.

3.

Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny

Roselli which summarize contact on 26 February 1971,

initiated by this Agency with the Commissioner, Immigration

and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, Mr. Raynond

Farrell

The purpose of this effort was to intercede with

the Innigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.

Roselli in

the action being initiated for deportation.

was determined that this Agency would be kept informed of the

progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to

forestall public disclosure of his association with the United

States Government.

The Attorney General at the time of these

contacts with the

Immigration and Naturalization Service was

Mr. John N. Mitchell.

On 21 March 1974,

this natter was discussed with Mr.

John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle I.

Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel;

and Stanton F. Ense,

Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,

Office of Security.

The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny

Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,

including the memoranda cited in paragraphs 1 and 3 above.

Mr.

Miller indicated that he planned to avait a follow-up call

from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

Stanton F. Ense

Deputy Director of Security

Personnel Security and Investigations

2

---

