# 104-10109-10402

## Page 1

104-0109-104021

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Legislative Counsel

MI. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA Matters

Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

HSCA Request

1. (U/AIUO) Reference is made to the 19 July 1978

request of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

for assistance of the Agency in arranging interviews in

Mexico with ten individuals (OLC 78-2718).

The records of

the Office of Security have been checked and files have been

located on eight of the ten individuals.

2.

(S) The following is a brief outline of the nature

of the relationship that the Agency had with each of the

eight individuals on whom the Office of Security has files.

The outline also indicates whether or not this file has been

requested for review by the HSCA and whether or not it has

actually been reviewed by HSCA staff members.

June Cobb Sharp - OS File #216 264 reflects opera-

tional interest in this American citizen from 1960 until

1968. The file, which is in three volumes, has been

partially reviewed by HSCA staffers Lopez and Hardway.

refleenry P. Lopezd

this American citizen

review but has not reluthe tale has been prepared for HSCA

been seen by the HSCA staffers.

citizenuel Calvillo - OS File H282 599 on this Mexican,

reflects operational interest in 1962.

The file

was reviewed by HSCA staffer Lopez on 12 and 17 July 1978.

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063344

OS 8 1971/A

+/PU

---

## Page 2

Al Witrich (Correct name Alfonso R. Wichtrich -

OS File #35 002 reflects

in this

naturalized U.S. citizen during 1962. The file has been

prepared for review by the HSCA but has not yet been

reviewed.

Luis Alberu Suoto - OS File #279 089 reflects

>4

Jin this Cuban citizen intermittently

trom (1962 untiT 1968.>He was at one time of interest

in Mexico City.

The file has been prepared for review but has not yet

been reviewed by the HSCA.

Consuelo Esperon - OS File #280 142 reflects that

this Mexican citizen was of

04,0 1962 and 1963.

At that time, she was employed ashuring

Secretary in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. The file

has been prepared for review but has

not yet been reviewed

by the HSCA.

Ramon Joseph Alvarez. Durant - OS File #114 926

reflects that durant, who was born in New York City,

holds Mexican and American citizenship. Durant was

24

During

some of this period, he was assigned to Mexico City.

There is no indication in his security file that he has

previously been of interest to the HSCA.

ol

(LIONION I) (True Name Alberto Rodriguez Gallego) -

OS File #228 726 reflects that this Cuban citizen was of

24

His

File does not reflect previous interest by the ASCA.

(S) The. Office of Security does not maintain a file

on Gen. Jose Jesus Clark Flores or Noe Palomares, however, it

is known that both of these names were previously the subject

of inquiries from the HSCA.

4. (U/AIUO) In regard

to the individuals in paragraph 2

on whom the Office of Security does maintain files,

it is noted

that the information in these files is generally quite dated and

would be of limited assistance in ascertaining their current

whereabouts.

BLA

for Robert. W. Gambino

2 SECRET

SIPS

---

## Page 3

Distribution:

Orig. &

- Addressee

1

- D/Security

1

- OS Registry

1

- SAG

1

- HSCA Request File

1 - Each

Subject File - 282599

OS/PSI /SAG/RMReardon: mgk

(21JUL78)

C.

C.

---

