# 104-10165-10060

## Page 1

104-10165-10060

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill 1a Sect: 2. on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front covar sheet, uless 1t

records significant action

taken

of

concerts requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Is file no, and title shova are bot

proper, insert proper file no. below

and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER PILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSELS

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APROPRIATE

COMMENTS

FH/4 REGISTRY

TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

OFFICER'S

ronmasses

•IMITIALS

coze send to 20m/s/ montice

COPY DETACHED

18/4 REGISTRY

2.

29 Mar29 Mazeh

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

902

(44 USC 2107 Note)

MANSY

NW 53295 6/15/17

Tom 51) 03

Doming

FAN

3.

6.

7.

9.

шн/цікА

Plies

incide in

11.

201

fice

12.

13.

14

18.

16.

VALA REGISTRY

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICHOFILMISO

ABSTRAGT

" INDEX

FOR 6100. "5EATIVIOUS

EDITIONS

PLS FILE

FAX 11

BRICENS

FILE

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FILS TITLE

FILE NUMBLA

RIMARY CODE.

201-275/30

DOCUMENT DATE

33.7012141

-SECRET

HUMA

4000

87000721

1/3R

---

## Page 2

104-10165-10060

1O

FROM

SULECT

DISPATCH

Chiat of Bees, HAVE

COlor, iS DITIALON

Cutes of Statloa, Hostorides

CLASSICATION

888859

DESPAION SIMPO MO NO

Hate 7hh6

MEADQULITLS ALI NO

23

DATE

88 Munch 1y01

1'05 - CHECK " ONE

MARKED FOR DEDING

NO INDEXING IQURED

INDONG CAN BE JUDGED

MY QUALIASO HQ DESK ONIT

ACTION ROUTED

A.

MOUT 4360

Ko:!

€ 4393

14396

4397

1.

Farmandal under superado cover sto astpla preca elipplago relativa to

SUbJOCE's TINt to Montonideo.

2.. An noted in referenced cables, subjert's vialt rade a greet impact upon

troguepen puble onlalos, Lesgaly as a result as excallest sodla slipport, o

INge prOpition of iiEt las EliTely spontoness. Mulle de did sactive varlors

esadets tron stetlos abasta, ids ous sumero saner and the content di los bassaga

ure that producad the floe Localsedla ruaction and what sade the best lepact

on the leuaryan publle. altbough be vas guidal tron tino to tine by the station's

DUCAGE Becbonies, egala it us bis eje for the drunatte and partraordinary

courags that producad the resulta.

Thero lo so doribt in anyone'& surd but that

Conta AgUNTO VAn the JOEt afaitIVe of tha cuben esdle visitara to bare thanted

Bantarideo thas fur.

3. Ilthout appening groody, us touid ungs that the thou continue. Ton

Maid of such poople as CONTE Aguero sud the recent adled Labor lenders doo

sa to dellAto the Corrantet/sociallot pra castro imaga und above all permite

the uruguan publle, uho sne so 10018, to sate uy their ois sisis about Castro

ond Cuba. CErtaInly COlli! AGuETO sucCeeded 11 abIdDE end DuElLiating tho

Corsmlst-11ning trigayan ladalator tho lacioad the guts to face bin la the

Atened and further iidiculed than by darlag to uppear the deat evening on thair

base ground (Ere set c).

d. CoEs erentest schlovement took place on tba alett of 17-'2arca

la the PlEza Independencia uben be editressad a burbed aulenco as 5000, Ido

MES A fET eTy brom the soudy cornnist claque at tbe provous algiot end flea

Isperesalre turnout are empla taat of the trus sentluente at the lorrecayao

publle it LeNTs. ¡Ese COsseRt the falloudas day vIl da sotad la tha separate

cover ettechroat.

tochanati

22 blared 1961

Astribution:

1. = HATE

3 - Betra

8 - Mile

10/14

Z/BR

261-120136

KOsH 33

10y

LS! RENOUS EDITICA

REPLACES FORMS

3I SA 31.22A ANO J1 FO

ANCH MIE ONSOLETE

PAGE NO

---

