# 104-10186-10086

## Page 1

104-10186-10086

ORMATION REPORT AN FORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

rhia matestal coalains Informallon adoreina tho Meltonal Delenot of the Culted Staire alibis the meaning of the Fantango data ItE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUMIRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT PaulinO LYU, alias "Mauricio"

DATE DISTR.

CSCI - 316/00536-65

5 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

DATE ACQ. JINUArY

D.

C

1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED, INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTÉNT IS TENTAVE

SOURCES

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarterg Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the

source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

l is requested that the addressees take no action on any o

the

individuals mentioned in

firat checking with this Agency.

Paulino INU,

Departmento legal

Interior.

His salary is $202 per month.

2. Paulino LNU is a Cuban citizen

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

He resides a* Calle Primera Entre Tercera y Cuatro, Reparto

Rogario, Habana, Cuba.1

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency revenl no icentifiable

information on Paulino LNU.

STATE

I DIA

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

I NAVY

I AIR

NSA

CISCLANT

CINCSO #

I &NS

7600r

TFET 2

REP

(Nora. Field disbution indicated by "#").

ORMATION RERORTH

INFORMATION RERORT

1L HE

ILICULLA

2!CI/RSA

DIEN

HI. SAR

10-Sd:CI

BID/AY

LALWASH

prouds

TOTALS ATI. SA &

(1), WE 1 (2), C1 1,

RID 1

traison &

J.X 2214 & LX 2290

UPGA 190S3(16DEO%

NO PROJECT (ANVUG

CSCI-316/00536-65

¡COORDINATING RELEABING

BES: LD:

Nop

---

