# 104-10247-10035

## Page 1

104-10247-10035

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproducer

SECRET

30

Mate

10660.

8-94

sit arous coral

DESENSINZED STUAR PROLEA

- 17840124235

1: PEQUEST TRACES DAFAEL JARCIA-GANSO DIRUSE, POP 22

PAIU 3E MACANA, LAWYER WHO ARRIVES MADRID FROM CUBA IS MARCH.

MCCUCSO TO STATION CEFICER SY GUSPOUL/2 AFTER SUSA CLANTED

WE INFO OF URGHT INTEREST TO COYOKE COVE SAID SUSS FROM

¡DOD FAMILY EUT SUSU HIMSELF MOWN AS CON MAN'WHO HAS"

LIVED

TU WITS AD FAST PUCK POLICY.

2. SUZU CLAP"S CONTACT WITH GROUP CUSAN MILITARY LEADERS

WHO PLANNING. ELITEATE FIDEL AND TAKE OVER GCVT. ALTHOUCH

NEFUSED REVEAL IDENTITIES SAID THEY NEEDED ASSURANCE OD YOKE

WIN PRCUIDE URAL SUDIT. QUENLY RECANT CLEAR HE CIFER IS

LARASHE AFTER SURD MENTICED ME: IM TOUCH WITH A LAStIR

ISRE DAID ALASHi? FRESENT SITUATION DIFFICULT SINCE

"AINTAINING CONTACT VITH CUBAN EMS AND ODYOKE BUT A/2 UNCERTAIN

2S ACTUAL: 31AZUS WITHLATTER:: CO DENIED ANY NOBLEESE

= 2 COMECTIO WITH CYCLE LATER COGROWLIZ SAID SURS WAS

02

APLASH/D NO'E EARLIES SAME EA

YEAR ASHES PRESENT ANE

---

## Page 2

12125-

FORET

CO/2 UNAWARE WYAT DISCUSSEN•

DUSU SATS LAST TAU AZASHA MAZONAS ACCHO 14S

ALLAYS DES

PULLO Y ANESE AS CLOSE PRIEST A LASAVI

CANCIAT

ATOT TO OCSE

DOZEUSU WAS LAUVES FOR CAPRI HOTSL IN LAZAA. I JULY

SAILED 75 DAYS TO LA CATAMA CO CHAPSES DE IHO WUSNRY NORT

A TER PRECIPIO CRUD TRAFFICANTS, U.S, CIT EX-SAYARCO.

CAME GATLIN CAL'C WID KICKES OUT OF CUPA. SUBJ WOULD

•ACE EXILE COCURE, CLAI'S HE PEFUSED OF POLITICAL TYDE

ACE: "3409 2-2 VULE NOT TRUST IM WITH MONEY AND MUTTER

" I" JULY A US ATAL" JAILED POIFFLY FOR SELLINS

¿PUT LICENDO AFTER. COATE INVOLVED !" PEAL TO TELL 1,

SECRET AWAST WAY ATPASTURE

---

## Page 3

AT 83

Perriedo

SCRET

W20295

TURN WAS 14 COSTART

NANA, SOOTHER OF U

1Y deni

PETE 2X PURSE PONDE EEPRENTER ALSO RIDERO DE CARLOS:

SCARLA IN BUSUSVOUES LIME

ES SOCHE CUTS CLATTO MILLINUESE RECURE CURA EITHEP LECALLY

OR CLACESTIELY TO CONTACT GROUP LEADERS INSIDE.

O"TO TIAT LASES ALCE SAUTAMARIA. CHIEF TALK DIVISION.

ECLVES IT FLOT AND BELIEURS SANTATARIA SEWG CLOSELY SUR-

SPILLER BY CO TAIT CO PL"IC" MAJOR PLAVIO RRAVO, COMTE

and to at uss?.

SAID SUDDY SYSTEM" CF SUPVEILLANCE

EXPLOYER MY TOO TO KEEP AT ETE ON FOTENTIALLY. CISAFFECTED

LEADERS, I.E. AHY WHO FAIL MAKE OPEN SHOW OF

CADICALISE ANE CLIND ORECIENCE TO REGIME

9. PLS ADVISE ANY INTREEST PURSUIRG CONTACT WITH SUSU AND

FER-ET

iFCRAT

---

