# 104-10185-10142

## Page 1

104-10185-10142

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FORCIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY " Cuba,

SUSJECT

Draco or. Draque ESCALANTE

REPORT NO:

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CSCI-316/00255-64

20 July 1964

1

-REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Roproduco

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

Washington, D. C

DATE ACO. July 1964

FIELD REPORT NO:

THIS IS UNSKALUATED: INFORMATION SOURCE GRIDINGS ARE DEFINITIVE' APPRAISAL ON SONTENT 15-1

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1.:

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

infpimation from the records of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the persorality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Diaco or Draque ESCALANTE, pseudonym"" Ciro, " is an officer of

the Dirección General de Inteligencia (DGI - General Directorate of

Intelligence) stationed in Cuba. I

- Headquarters Comment.

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information on

ESCALANTE.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5

4

3

STATE

1 01A

ARHY

1 NAVY

AIR

RED CINCLANT CINCSO:

(Noe: Field distribution inciested by "a)

?6114?4

175/S4/203 1 WE/S/R

111 CI/LIA

2 SATR

TH/SA/CT 41

RID/AN

ITOrALs

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

peas so. 1

OBSOLETE PI#VIOU] ED:TIONS.

JAS

[TEL

TVESH

GROUP B

Ів адення водно

Loce

L EBI2

PẠỢ!

1LI- 1550

INO PROJECT

(AMMUG- 1)

SO DIMITING EXTRA: LIS

LIAISONS #

201-None

.:

108.

---

