# 104-10106-10180

## Page 1

104-10106-10180

sicisistsnet.

"t": ie:

00721

peen - eo 9g

---

## Page 2

ADMMISTRATIVE

RETURN TO OLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Fesdquarters.

I0 JUL 1964

MORANDOM FOR

SUBJECI

Special gent In Charge

District Flald Office

704

Emergency Instructions Regarding Custody or)

$262.622 C - SD/I

Reference je nude to the outline of energency instructions

submitted by you on 1 July 1904 for Headquarters apororal

2.

The pian as outlined is approved and anould be imal mented

Imodiately.

mighty

malts

LOBIASSEN: dr

DUS/10S9 JULY 1964

ADDS/LOSOPPLEMENTAL

ASST/IOS

C/ID

C/OSD

DC/OSD

C/SRD

C/S13

C/S3

C/ID/

00925

18,o0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Headquarters

SUBJECT

Emergency

Instructions Regarding Custody Of)

#262 622

C SD/1

I. Attached are instructions and procedures to be followed in

the event of emergency situations affecting the SUBJECT's health,

safety and custody, as well as the security of the safehouse where

SUBJECT is currently being held.

2. This is to formalize instructions which, for the most part,

are already in effect and have heen hriefed to the personnel af tha

District Field rice who are concerned with this case.

3. Dissemination of copies of these instructions to members of

the Special Security Detail will be made upon notification of Headquarters

approval.

JOHN D'

NOBLES

flopecial Agent

arge

Attachment:

Emergency Instructions (2)

0125-31273

a death en

TO BE CENSO DY ACRESORE ONLY

00726

---

## Page 4

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

Instructions and procedures

are set forth below for the handling

of emergency situations such as fire, the escape or attempted escape

Of SUBJECT, and the sudden illness or serious injury to the SUBJECT.

Should such situations arise, it might be necessary to call on the

Police, the Fire Department, or outside medical facilities for assistance.

It is possible that in such an event representatives of the press or

curiosity-seekers in the local connunity might be attracted to the site,

thereby creating security problems with respect to the custody and

protection of the SUBJECT from a publicity standpoint.

In view of the above, it is therefore imperative that these in-

structions be thoroughly understood and memorized by all personnel

assigned to the Special Security Detail on this case.

FIRE

(Main House)

I. In case of fire in the Main House, the person discovering the

fire should apply the nearest fire extinguisher, unless, in his judgment,

the fire has reached such proportions where available equipment would be

useless.

Simultaneously, he should dispatch another member of the Security

Detail to alert the Senior Security Agent (SSA) and the other occupants

of the house. If no one is available in the immediate vicinity, the

person discovering the fire should alert others in the house by shouting

"FIRE".

2. Upon being notified of a fire, the SSA shall be responsible for

directing the fighting of the fire, protecting classified and sensitive

documents and equipment on the premises, calling the local Fire Department.

if circumstances warrant, and evacuating personnel. Also, at the first

available opportunity, the SSA should call the SAC or ASAC; or if they

cannot be reached, a senior DFO Agent, and furnish him with full particulars

concerning the situation and the action being taken.

3.

In utilizing members of the Security Detail in fighting a fire,

it should be borne in mind that two guards must be maintained on the

third floor at all times, so long as the SUBJECT remains confined to

his quarters. If it should become necessary to remove the SUBJECT from

his quarters during an emergency, a minimum of four guards should be

present unless circumstances are

such as to make this infeasible. In

00727

---

## Page 5

14-00000

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

(Continued)

any event, every possible security precaution should be taken during

the movement of SUBJECI, including the use of handcuffs or any other

restraining devices deemed necessary in order to maintain proper custody

and control over the SUBJECT and prevent his escape.

4.. If, in the judgment of the SSA, a fire has reached, or is likely

to reach, proportions that it could not be controlled by firefighting

equipment on the premises, it shall be his responsibility to notify the,

In this event, the Security Detail should

move with dispatch to remove the SUBJECT from the premises prior to

arrival of the Fire Department. The SUBJECT should be placed in an

automobile; accompanied by four members of the Security Detail, and

driven away from the premises. At appropriate intervals, telephone

If no answer is received, the

cognizant. DEO.official should he contacted for instructions as to whether

to return to the safehouse or proceca to an alternate site.

FIRE

(Tenant House)

1.

In case of fire in the Tenant House, the occupants thereof

should be instructed to immediately notify the Main House and to use

any available means to combat the fire until assistance arrives, unless

the fire is out of control, in which case all efforts should be directed

towards the evacuation of the occupants of the premises. It should be

clearly understood that in no case should any of the occupants of the

Tenant House call the Fire Department. This decision is the sole respon-

sibility of the SSA.

2. Upon notification of a fire in the Tenant House,

the person

notified should immediately inform the SSA and assist in the dispatching

of available personnel and fire extinguishers to combat the fire. If,

proportions that it could not be controlled by the available firefighting

equipment, it shall be his responsibility to notify the Clinton Fire

Department and to take necessary precautionary measures to prevent the

observation of the SUBJECT by firemen or other unauthorized persons who

might be attracted to the scene.

00728

-2-

---

## Page 6

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

(Continued)

At the first available opportunity, the SSA should call the

SAC or ASAC, or if they cannot be reached, a senior DFO Agent, and

furnish him with full particulars concerning the situation and the

action being taken.

ESCAPE OR ATTEMPTED ESCAPE

l. Strict vigilance and security should be maintained on a

24 hour basis in accordance with established procedures in order to

discourage and prevent the SUBJECT's escape. If SUBJECT should make

an attempt to escape, sufficient force should be used as is necessary

under the circumstances in order to subdue the SUBJECT and maintain

custody and control over him.

However, unnecessary brutality and the

indiscriminate use of force will not ha condoned.

2. All personnel assigned to the Special Security Detail on duty

other appropriate means, and brought into play on any escape attempt.

Should the SUBJECT succeed in escaping from the house proper, the SSA

shall be responsible for coordinating and directing a hot pursuit of

the SUBJECT by all means available.

3. The use of firearms should be scrupulously avoided except in

extreme circumstances of self-defense.

However, the SSA under circum-

stances that indicate there are no other means of preventing SUBJECT's

total escape, may direct a qualified firearms-trained agent to fire

shots over SUBJECT's head followed by verbal warning to halt. In no

event, except in self-defense as stated above, will an agent shoot

directly at the SUBJECI.

4. At the first available opportunity, the SAC/DFO, or in his

absence, one of the ASACs, should be telephonically advised of all

the circumstances surrounding an escape attempt.

In no case shall

the Police be notified unless authorized by the SAC or ASAC.

ILLNESS OR INJURY

1. In case of sudden illness or serious injury to the SUBJECT,

De. Charles SOHRER, or other physician designated by him in the event

00729

---

## Page 7

300003

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS®

(Continued)

of his absence, should be immediately notified and advice obtained as

to any emergency action which should be taken pending his arrival.

Likewise, the SAC or ASAC/DFO should be notified immediately aiter

talking to the doctor in order that he might be apprised of the situation

and any instructions or treatment prescribed by the doctor. Regardless

of any instructions given by the doctor, no action shall be taken to

remove the SUBJECT from the premises or to communicate with any hospital

or ambulance service without the prior authorization of the SAC or ASAC.

2. Should it become necessary to remove the SUBJECT to a hospital

or other location away from the premises, every possible precaution

should be taken to maintain close custody and control over him, and to

prevent disclosure of his true identity and status to unauthorized

persons.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS AND INFORMATION

1. Two men on duty on third floor who will keep SUBJECT under

constant observation twenty-four hours a day.

2. Four men in attendance whenever SUBJECT leaves. cell while

confined to third floor.

3. Six men in attendance whenever SUBJECT is taken to interrogation

room on second floor, all to remain available in adjoining room for

removal signal Irom visitors.

4. Coveralls taken from SUBJECT at 2200 hours and returned the

following morning at 0700 hours daily, leaving SUBJECT in shorts and

undershirt overnight.

5. Military appearance and prompt shift schedules maintained at

all times when in presence of SUBJECT.

6. Careful room search, including clothes and bunk, to be conducted

every time SUBJECT leaves cell.

7. SUBJECT must stand in West corner of cell facing wall whenever

anyone but Dr. BOHRER enters cell.

00730

ly.-

---

## Page 8

cd-i ones

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

(Continued)

8. Windows in cell to remain blacked out and doors to other rooms

on 3rd floor to be closed and locked when SUBJECT leaves cell, in order

to prevent his becoming oriented to surroundings.

9. No unnecessary conversation shall be conducted with SUBJECT or

among agents, nor shall any mention of last names be made within SUBJECT's

hearing-

10: SUBJECT is not to have access to newspapers and magazines, no

permitted to hear radio or television, nor shall there be any discussion

of news events within his hearing.

He may be provided selected reading

material upon authorization of Headquarters personnel concerned with the

case.

I1. Recording devices to be promptly activated in order to dick un

any corments by SUBJECT or conversation batreen him and the doctor or

other operational personnel.

12. Any unusual or significant comments, movements or activities

of SUBJECT to be promptly brought to the attention of the SSA.

13. Telephone numbers of key Security and Operational personnel,

as well as photographs and physical description oi SUBJECT to be maintained

in a secure place for ready reference by the SSA.

14. Should it become necessary to answer questions by the Police

or Fire Department regarding the site, personnel at the site, or with

te, police

specific reference to the SUBJECT, such inquiries should be handled

by the SSA with the senior Police or Fire Department official on the

scene. The SSA should converse in private with such official, and.

identify himself by utilizing his DODD credential. He should explain

briefly, and only to the extent necessary, that the property is leased

and that it is used occasionally for training purposes. All inquiries

concerning the SUBJECT should be parried, if possible. However, if

necessary,

it may be explained that the SUBJECT has a mental disorder

which sometimes requires special treatment. He should not be identified

under his alias or otherwise. The SSA should tactfully but firmly request

that his own identity, plus his DOD affiliation, be held in strict confidence,

especially with regard to the press. Inquiries by memoers of the press

or members of the civilian population should be answered by stating that

the site is rented by a private group who meet periodically for recreation.

00731

- 5-

---

## Page 9

EMERGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

(Continued)

N3x75+0889166

SPECIAL CONTACTS

I. George PANEGAULIS, Chief of Police, Prince Georges County.

(Personally known to SNODDY under GOLIATH)

2. Lieutenant MOON, Commanding Officer, Barracks H, Waldorf,

Maryland, Maryland State Police. (Personally knowa to FERRALI

under GOLIATH)

Emergency Ambulance - Greenbelt Volunteer Fire Department.

(Can be obtained through SNODDY)

Above not to be contacted unless authorized by SAC or ASAC.

00732

---

