# 104-10181-10178

## Page 1

104-10181-10178

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

I. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO IOU.

2 RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHITES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, R$1 GE-58, ON OR BEFORE

• DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORN

1790 use A

MARTI

un terrons.

QUE DATE

15 ANG N07

R/Or/T. 332630

03

Ai to requestor:

Please return this

reference to RID/ARD/RCU

innediately after use.

7.

•.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

1S. RETURY TO:

RID/ARD/RCU G-E-58

108m

610 wann

SECRET

RECORDS CENTER

JOB NO. 66 - 1/10

SPACE NO. $26.3 €

O CONFIDENTIAL

FILE N0.00 00 - 6-105/3

FOLDER NO. -3

BOX NO.

TERN

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

INSTRUCTIOSS

PRIOR TO FILING

On tack." Detach bacil

flap and

2. Destroy fren!

cover shest,-urless it

records significant action

consents rejuirarg preservation.

FROM:

- 10. ACTION DRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not

propor, Insert propor file no. belon

and formard docusent to RID/AN.

PROFER FILE NE.

RID/

18 MAR %. M

TO ALL ADDRESSCES

PILL IN SECTION ' ON PACK. I APPROPALATE

COMMENTS

RID/AS -2

TO

"08"

DATE

609H488

881 Baght:

SAS/REG

SASMOB To

18 MAR 1963

COPY DETACHED 1 8 MA4 1963

MAR 15 1963

11.

RID/L'S

12

T3

19.

16.

17.

RID/FI

• TRACE

REQUEST

EATE MICROFINED

ZO BEAD

PROCESS 13/13

ZODIACHIN

PROCESSED

Poor!

FILF TITL

FILE NUMSTA PRIMARY CODES

AbSTRACT

INDEE

OCUMEN

HMMA

60862

610a

ISE PREVIOU

DITION

759863

SECRET

1608

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DISPATCH

PASSINAlAM

SECREE

Chlal, Task PorcaH

Chlot of Stelas 167Zs ChloC, Ml Divialen

Chit erstrilen tadoo Getr

(CTi

ACTION PIQUARIO RU LANCES

PROCESSING

at non

WARI: FOR MOLIN

Can 8 pa 42180

MEAZDELATIOS BESE

NCT MAC!

PLEAS

• i

+2R 15 1563

1o

Attached, for addressees,

are epples of Subject reports dated

22 Pobruary and 26 Fobruary 1963.

2. Pransaltted for Task Porco, as provided b y Subject, are attachmants

(1) January-lebruary 1963 1854e of Inforuciones de Cuba, (1) Revolucion dated

25 Fetsuary 1963, and (1) Playa Giron envelope.

Sheer (Castes

Attachmentss?:......

Herewith

Desert lone

- C/TFW, w/att Contact Reports and (2) envelores

1 - C/D,

w/att

1 - COS, WAVE, w/att "

:

3 - F1103

Just.

CS CC2Y

INDEMY

•50-6-155/3

DATE TYPEO

DATE DOSPAICTED

7 March 1963

DESPATCH STRASOL AND NUMBER

HISA 20862

MEADQUARTERS PLE MURABOR

End -4:

CLASSIS ELATION

SECRET

---

## Page 4

kit.

26 Feb G3

•Licorancin for the secord

-Saugerts

On 25 Fen 63, PAliNIS rad I picled

up trait 9) at readosieur raine and se drove in a dariere.

•. area of the offt phere

NOTED. Tied:

21?0-I245

1. Irina TRAFOTE de VALDES, silÉe of Raniro MALasS, See Gobeina-

cion in Habana la scheduled to leave for l'abana on 1 is 63.

101-734283

201-3347 dubans in the Cubana plane on 25 Teh that he has bery in Bricle

So paranoider, toxican wise of mber fate male m

SELF SIT: MERILO ANENKO, MENKO CITY

BE. RESCAT

on the phone that intente ricol"cascio to à uerruis for her.

SY LIAILI

(Ing) queried CARCIA re sare and GaRCh tola (E) thas le did tot

have a negrage from anghodg for regialera CARCIA.

4. On 25 Feb 63, (Ine) onid that trio yallion left lioxico for tabana.

Strethat the llhtest

need entie torte. la

said that trunksacuse rut two conftdentina separe in the ponen

ir. Efs prerence.

5. (Ing)send that Pilar, Imi stemariend and to othere dece

arrosted and cent to a farn fororly orned by BhIichi where they

will snend fron 1-2 jears. Too three were charcor with contratond

orerations on lali-janI flipht, decerdire to the seroil, 10,000

dollare north of jewels were found in the rack of a plane cert

which retume, to Havana fron Mexico. It arocers that tid ¿crite

Here not taken off the thinke

dorico at rlarred.

Is naldire the job, dccordire to diciNes, the sraniard is not ir.

the cow't's good graces and he hopes to coplace hir.

• !.

isel

sulte: 11114-20955

CS COPY

351763

5i.6:/5.513

---

## Page 5

Sron Cubaa 11pa. lU ê5 deb the follorino croup had crisce un

board tho Citano pline: Antonio "11co" silli, iniel lindix

hotres ARaCid Ritos und (Engl the greup mas very nery breatice of

the ree stamp trat the Cuban or's 1o unino at the altporto hll

raseporta are ion being ctarped by Innieration officiale ac folloras

SATTO A CUPA OF LLEGO JE SOTA. Tite staIo le plased on tie pace tiere.

the dubjecte photo la fouri. ste group sald that au 800r le tiro

Anbarsador arrivea be should, equank loudly to the lexican Gort about

tr.18.

1384

filt

788-334039

201-33

Bureb101iZ.CUS Lopez, Giban Conel, mos afeet becalino ros all

Cuban cablea pare throuch fen fork. le renarked: "Ins ertan dando

todo en bandeja de plata". DEr RED 43)

SOLORZANO 18 the god-sotter to pne of SirORAs" childrono Sil.CiRiio

al so renarked that aml 1o sacurios, nho la a partrer of Cisuntezco

CHEDERAS, canrot understand what is the ratter with tholuban vout

InotarE the Enhassy "5o to pot", 1oe. lach of percornel deconte i

adecuado. ARGUErIks, accordine to soLostilo, sald the Cutan Gort

officiale " no se don cuorta lo que signifien texica"• Disebio

ErCUe, wha mn with 3) 31e7 durlar bia ennercation ritri her at

her gas rtation, defended SICEAS ragire "ionetros er

cu cdos lo

ALE NANES

hariamos neur, es la colpa de triRe".

/ clon, tuo copies of cuben erbaesy zullatin -# 19/20 e copy of

Pineral legro & book of foetry by the Haitian, Benc'

TX 3A269)

il see hari se... relique commenta on diosto surciaia potert.

---

## Page 6

Irian sale prosino

Vicoreo & Cuta, (secun se.

6110)

Pruega

Innos 25 de Feb.

Ascur-:lucad ochar anc0l1%

un

"nen111110" 1ns0r0rtable"

con Jia

mitidonià de Cilin

cucanndo descurercele

Fcroin1 adecuado, c.

"parece pe

cuenta lo que 615n1ia

""Esico".

sacue, en cefenen de :

bas. "so-otros en su ciad 10

harlinos peor, la culpa

del MIiREi. Urce Embajador

cada vez mayores trabas

oficinios de Cubr pert

dan pernico de trabajo

y becas siompre y cuardo

concedan la vice correspon

diente.

(antes era el revés,

trabajo ete, lueco

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Jueves 25 de scb.

.nl16 a Cuta

Dr.

•Orando.

¡e aijo que probnolc.ente

or cortiago de

C:in

:laico,

de calien copalos

MeIonoze Pilar y otros don

precos albana antima finca

de satista (hoy ranajo del

lucolo) concems de uno a

con

año:: contrabando 1U.000

dallars y joyas hacia dicx.

i Balleron 2 valijes,

1a

delrada lleva conticencinla

D01°

t1co

"que le trne un

recado de Cuba", Este me

1o nieen, "lio tiene ningun

recado de nadie para lagda-

Icna"

Se liable poco de letercourt

solanente

alcin concntario

nir im: ortancia n borio del

avión estacionndo de

"Cubare

Tomanão chil ou el riino

Cret 114r

deue kercha. Gram 175g

• Lación colectiva,

2ell0s que

apore miuración de lerico.

"salió a Cuba", "ileo de

--c.Cubo", Tan pronto 1le ue

iccambajador ley que cicler

unn protcata al Preridente..

il-capitan

c 10 raic, 11l0.

córico y conriionie

ala c:0a

50111403 .c1.n

411?

dicto tcsti.on10...etc,

etc'

todos muy complacido.

por.

10 que dijO cl Unpitin.

Czan rableta de

incue,

nhom los crbles prins

través 1l.Y. "les estín dan-.

do todo en bandeja de platal

Rojos

---

## Page 8

Juareo 21 de seb, .15

P:lacio Boi. entre l0a con-

cuarenten !! Dolorco de l0

ors y tcnertroca. voy para

Cuba, te llevo ciguna carta?

en In tarde 4.15 pomo In

visite en nu carn.

••o muy preocupada por la.

actual ci nación de Cuba:

setancourt,

que te rain te danide cono

circomo del Precl

cente. te"rcllaito" no eres

exilenno, Tú airo (Fidel)

rolcle", no lo turieron

rociente anecde crisic, nion-

"Exico costaniéndole

no intervención

Viernon 22 de

vưolo cubina lieto lionten-

pulo "todavín no 12015-nue-

Lados moraron nuevo tuba

Cunahutéroe Cirienno a es

cubano

1e-0 otro 1010ntic

(mu1a40

.1=85:1t0

también coni sico(sin hijo

y Clara Porcet

Juoves: en In terde

reunión de todos pars

AUTOCRITICA, NO SE VOIVI6

• tocar el Incidente con

Jan herianno de Fidel

Dolorci acompañard

al gesidentclingo 1. duron

•oreto Cincht

prid.r

Ine. inchte vilc a turopi

le catricul ina curt: el

Frecidente

inate fijaste?

Tiniate

por

ixico man deanciroe.

•Maniro del lo no te cor

sider Intecro a la Rerolu

ción.

'Ina a chile cardlino de

Bolivia a ilio.

Estaba odior culturad

de E.r.U.U.

no 10 caludo) ciaba yo con

clic r'olenza

---

## Page 9

• bode...

1r dur the Record

and me drove to dartened atreet behind uy hose, miere re hold ate.

DO SEGRITY PROPLES NOTED. FLOI 2200-2700! (1) erie I tien wer. •

to ey house where ma talked at great kength with Pia:aas

(Ing'e as0177907.

Init? provited the sollmirg'inforration:

1. on 22 PaD 63 (Bad attenaded ste inauguration as Erotition, as she

СПіДЕО

Mu for here

recall of soviet trooprais

•erico etce

2?i

said that she told Plausekharm 0446805827, lexicar nonasar.

to tell Ires, Lope mateon at he not pread ni deing a manicur ces

cause of the-Gor'ln anti-Cirro attitide. She riend the netirities t

the airport as an example, she told lollith to moll ECrEs that ra

harrera que te redea ta impéde corocer la verdad". Id l tori:.?.

(9) that are sen irpil tateos after file ard he said that colloridi

to ser alder percastic sarnes "zo selloito. ra cres icricar.",

Tu anlão "palelo", no lo turieron darwin presente pasada crieis,

mentras larico sorteniendolo principio "to Irtermicion".

DE la rio said that nor Cather kill acconjIa:

Sen. KCP2%0 Sanchez considers it vory irrortant tire Cuba horo ai

Eta # to NT: 14-30562: 13057

71758863

50-6-105/3

12NV

---

## Page 10

istassador in dexico tory frrenchl to lorio then he serierfor sarigo.

Di: In dean eals tha: sie deliveren a letter to the

rugident lalia and adied; ""s le flibate?"

H:11.

301-552710

i'ae referred to

Faron STORAS thuslys "59 yn Tino", FEBEis.

sia (ErnuT9)aa1d that 2001n dice, Cuben binto suld that do mea

53 des aza coning to liexico. hüli aadd thit licita Fall cuse to

wexieo bus only to say cuuntue hessee leaving for his pout in the

tnited lations.

201-334042

G-2 ann, told ANCiE

tent he ild not believe that ) tas interruted

into the Revolution, (" En te concidera interrado a is scuolucior")peo

Pedro LARI dunna has been trensferred to chize (alrendy his tichot)

and SARDIlAS, fru is coning to ¿exico from Polisia falrect trirciers).

So SaDies le probabli indo nor as careda liste la sha furrica

Serine Dolletin - can 63..

5.

07 22 ten 63, irtois

CITICUBA

and close frierd for goringò in serico son labara, conseagued re-

sarked to lug' micdaria no noebraron nuevo serride, fris cocher

RE CONTENTS

a rer Anb "ill be named to .?io.

FEBE?

NELS

-6:

--913-3

A G-ban courder (regro) arried on 22 deb lin

ic".

arrived forthe aro in texlec.

7.

The wife is Mister-l arrived in lexico on 22 Fob ziruit the childro.

Clara PORSET de

cubarang, buben, arrived or 22 dei Erur Belorse

5i1d

---

## Page 11

S2H-F

CAP:CUBA

went to tre rbarry on 16 feh to try and Get oxeaky porcinato. tor

ACCLINIC DE, 76862

-Dozat's nother arrived 1o dexico about 6 northe dãu and did no: return.

DOPAL arrived at the Srassy lookirg for Peteca Palaid Lecaser

"exican friend of here, who was with her knows aRo-cA

and FRoiii tel

him that Dr. DRAIWOuld have ro troutle lenving Cuan at any tice. '

PRosiza told him thie on a previoue occutton. DUBit 10 Violently antl-!

sofire. Eles Dophlo mio in very astrocilvo, accostir to Lol) 1a earried

to a 1a1 alal player by the name of Glari.

GUARA 1e spanish.

10 Cing) provaded the folloring papera, samphinto, boks erot

Rosaucson art x - dated 22 806 63. (lihary)

Lo tentan MaA srana Que la perora - Pablo terica (lebrey)

Calaverna Resurrectan - Taller Gratico 'Popular (lelang,'

Playa Giron - rapa ete for sindy se contest - ionurènt attached

cuba - 19 (leties)

Pohemk3 - 1570363/lity

CHiS

---

## Page 12

CIr: CUEA.

9. (Ing) identified the photograoh

STING HIG

sent it embaces on la den to try and cot loreaks poraleslon for

ARE INGO: DO FEES.

bes fathere Dr. BEAL In labara to core to mexico. (*-) 5)

-DosAl'e nother arrived in lexico about 6 montha aro and did not return.

DOSAL arrived at the Enhassy looking for jeteca PRODIZA tecause a

¿exican friend of here, who wan with her knows 2ROl:ZA and IROZZA tola

hia that Dr. DOBAlMould have no trouble lening Cuba at any tire.

FROSZA told him thie on a previous occuddan. DUBil le violently anti- !

rote. tea Dolai, tho de very attructive, rocurina to fo) a surred

to a 1a1 alal player by the name of clara. GUARa do spaninho

10. (I-9) provided the following pavera, pamphleto, books ete:

cuba - # 9 (letiay)

2ohem1g - 15 70063 ltray)

1179501

EnsA

:113: (E2:4 12-9)

---

