# 104-10418-10340

## Page 1

110410418-10340]

ORIG E

Bo Fistos: 17

UNIT :

D INDEX

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SI CRIT

EXT

5940

ENO INDEX

DATE :

29 November 63

LE FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-207240 Destroy

I DISSET;

THE FETTLE HOUSE I ATTIT: MR. MCGEORGE BUNDY

TO

THE STATE DEPARIMENT: ATEN:

MR. U. ARENTS JOINSON

12:62

ROUTING

4

5

2

3

29 Nov 63 18 402

FROM:

& GENERAL INTELLIGENCE AGRICY LONE UTAGO

CONF

CS COPMA

DERNIELEN

ROUTINE

INFO :

TO

Document. Nu

IMMEDIALL

541304--

1o.

INFO.

CITE DIR

TRAVEL OF LEE HARVEY OSWALD

85715

THE POLLONING INIPORMATION HAS BREN GATHERED FROM RELIABLE SOURCES

REGARDING THE TRAVEL OF LEE HARVEY OSHALD AND HTS WIFE:

Ao

9 OCTOBER 1959:

ACORE FIG TO OFFIETAE IRI

FANGRES

OSWALD ARRIVED I SOUTHAMPION THIS DATE CLATMING ON HIS LANDING CARD THÂT HE HAD

HO PIXED AUDRESS BUT PLANNED TO REMATH IN THIS UNITED KINGDOM ONE WEEK FOR VACKTION

BEFORE GOING OT TO "SOME SCHOOL, IN SHISSE."

HZADOUARIY

ERS COMMENT:.

PROBABLY

REFERRING TO THE ALBERT SCH

IZER COLLEGE IN SWIIZERLAND WITH WHICH HE IS KNOWN

TO HAYE BEEN IN CORRESPONDENCE:)

10 OCTOBER 1959:

ACCORDING-TO-E-SAVE OFFICIAL"BRITISH JRAVEL

APR 1976

HOGUES OSWALD LEFT LONDON THIB DATE BY AIR I

CBER 1959: STOCKHOLY HENSPAPER "DAGENS HYARIER" OF 25 NOVEMBER

2903 STATES LEE DEVALD PASSED THROUGE SHEDEN DURING OCTOBER 1959.

ARTICLE ALSO

BANDS THAT OSHALD WAS UNSUCCESSPUL IN OBTAINING VISA TO THE VESR IN HEISCINKT WHICH

RESIS I SEE RESENTINE TO STOCKSON, INO DAYS ANE IS ARRIVED IN STOCKROIN

OSHAO TRAVEL DIRELY DO MOSCO, CONCO

ING SENTENCE OF ARTICLE STATES "PHiS

INDICATES JHAT THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY (STOCKHOLM) GAVE RIN A VISA " A

TO A. RETARTE SOURCE INCRE HAS NO RECORD THAT THERE WAS ANY REQUEST FOR A USSR

VISA PROCKSSED MERCUGE-NORMAL, CHANNELS FOR OSHALD AT ANY TIME DURING 1959; AND

0:200-5-41

204289248

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATiNG OFFiCERS

Excluded from automati

"SECRET

downgrading and

declassification...

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

"ORIG:

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

то :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO :

• TO:

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

2

12-62

ROUTING

5

PAGE TERES

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

G.

INFO

• CITE DIR

19638 ACCORDING TO AN EXTREMELY SENSITIVE AND RETABLE-SOURCE,

QI 23 MOVEMBER MARIA ENSLILACE, ERAD OR THE "HERKGROUP INFORMATIS CUBA, " TOXO AN

BELOSS O THE CUBAN EMBASSY I VES MAGUE IAT SHE WAS SURS SHE HAD ME AS

NR. LES IN HAVANA, WIO DID THE MURDER.

SHE DESCRIBED HIN AS A MAN OF VIOLENCE

AND ENTIRELY FULL OF HATE AND

THAT II HAS POSSIBLE THAT PHUS MAN HẠD

BHE SAID SHIS BAD WRITTEN TO "GIBSON ABOUT THiE BAD

INPRESSION SHE HAD HAD CE TITS LEE.

(HEAD

UARTERS COMMENTS: PLEASE REFER TO OUR

WINETYPES NOB 85182 AND 85665 FOR ADDITIGNAL, INPORMANION ON GIBSON.) ALMOST

THRES HOURS LATER, ENEMILAGE AGAIU CONTACUS THE CUBAN INBASSY IN THE HAGUE AND

SAID THAT'S LES OF TER FAIR PLAY FOR CURA COMITIES" HAD BEEY SLANDERED AND THAT

I WAS ANOTHER PERSON HAMED IRE OSWALD WHO HAD DONE II.

SNEIFLACE SEEMED TO BE

GLAD TO HAVE ISARD THIS "CORRECT" VERSON. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

MR. LEE MAY BE

DENTICAL WITH VINCE

ED FLADORE-LES -TEO REPLACED, RICHARD-GIBSON AS HRAD DE, THE

FAIR FLAT FOR CUBA COM

E. ACCORDING TO PRETABEE-INFORMA!

1963-NID ACCORDING TO NI OUTICIAL DUICE-SOURCE, SUS ACAT-RAVITED NO CURA TR

THE NAY-DAI CELEBRATIONS IT 7963.

207-2802548

END OF MESSAGE

131 AND

Ment:

-COMMENT: DISSEMINATION: APPEICABLE TO RYBAT @PFLOOR-GABLES.

RICHARD HELMS - DD/P

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

RELEASING OFFICER

Excluded Irom aötomatie

-downgrading and

SECRET

dealasciscation

AUTHENTICATING

OFFI

ICER

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Сору No.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIS &

UNIT &

O INDEX

EXT

GENO INDEX

• DATE :

29 Movember 63

BE FILE IN CS FILE NO.

A DISSET

THE RECUUE HOUSE ATTIT: MR. MOGBORCE: BUNDY

THE STATE DEPARIMENT AYUN: MR. U. ALEXTS JOHNSON

-",.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IVESTUGATIONS

FROM:

EURAL. INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROUTING

4

5

6

29 Now 63

18 402

CONF:

CS COPV A

DEFERE CEN

ROUTINE

INFO

IMMEDIATE

TO

Document: Number 2265-

APR 1976

• INFO

CITE DIR

SUBTECTE

TRAVEL OF LEE HARVEY OSHAID

85715

THE FOLIONING INFURMATION HAS BESN GATHERED FROM RELIABLE SOURCES

RECEDING THE TRAVEL, OF LES HARVEY OSWALD AND HIS WINS:

A.

9 OCTOBER 1959:

OSWALD ARRIVED IN SO

MPTON THIS DATE CLATHING ON HIS LANDING CARD THÂT HE HAD

HO FIXED ANDRESS BUT FLAT

INED TO REMADY IN THE UNTIEO KINGDOM ONE WAEK FOR VACKTION

BEFORE GOING ON TO "SOME SCHOOL IN SWISSE."

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

PROBABLY

REFERRING TO THE ALBERT SCUWETIVIR COLLEGE IN SWITZERTAND WITH WHICH HE IS KNOWN

TO HAYS BEEN III CO

INDENCE. )

B:

10 OCTOBER 1959:

OSHATE LEFT LONDON THTS DATE BY AIR

C.

OCTOBER 1959: STOCKHOLM INSPAPER "DAGES ITHSIER" Or 25 NOVEMBER

52963 STATES INE OSHAID PASSED JEROUGE SHADEN DURING OCTOBER 1959. ARTICT ALSO

ESSFUL IN OBTAINING VISA TO IC USSR IN HELSINKI WHICH

MOSKALD TRAYED DIRBERLY TO MOSCO, CONCUOT BRVINCE OF ARIC STATES "IS

INDICATES THAT IE RUESIA EMBASSY (STOCKHOLM) GAVE HIM A VISA.

COORDINATiNG OFFICERS

RELEASING ÖFFICER

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

• REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

: Copy No.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIS :

UNIT: :

EXT . :

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

12-62

ROUTING

D INDEX

•I NO INDEX

ERE IN CS FLE NO.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

SOVIET ENRASSY IN STO

OSWALD MUST HAVE RECEIVED HIS VISA DIRECTLY FROM TAT

ICA OCCABIONALLT IS DONE IN SPECIAL CASE

Fo: 1962:

RECORDS DO NOT REFLECT THAT OSHALD RETURNED

TO THE UNTIED STATES FROM THE UESR THROUGH THE UNILIED KINGDOM.

COORDINATING OFFICER

REL:

REPRODUCTION BY

THER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS ( SHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

'...

Copy. No.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CLASSIFIED, MESSAGE

12-62

ROUTING

"ORIGE?"

UNIT :

EXT

DATE's :

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR !

CONF&•

INFO g

PAGE THRES

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

• CITE DIR

G

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

