# 104-10174-10149

## Page 1

104-10174-10149

chief el station. derico elly.

#0148690

• 85.86

LICIUNE-1

STRAIN DO DISINIS

ACTION REQLIRUD: 3a0 below

As the Stntlon Case Offlcer no doubt realtres, three

of the persons

lissed as close assoclates. ol Subject ara leltista so sore degree.

ebla my be adiantagecus aince LICHANI-l may Do in a positien

oblala better

information for ala ntudles for Lifurgland be my be more trusted dy left late

la she taryet groupe, Headquartero presupen the Station will exercise caution

In directlad Subject through the Linurts.

LICIANI-l'a FOL/O 18 belng amen-

ded to atipulate that the Station will not handle Subject directly, cast he

ahould aot be made witting of KUMARK or ODYKE Interest in his activleles, nor

should sensitlve reguirements ba rerealed to hIm. This restriction cos be

waived upon assurances by the Station that LICIWNT-l does sot share the pro

Comunlat and pro soviet.

anti-U.S. sympathies of the three friends In ques-

tion and that he can be adequately controlled.

Anadquarters wishes to especially caution the 3tatfon

regarding

JaINe GARCIA Terre's who was reported la HMM- 4426 of Auguet 1959 as being

In the pay of the soviet sabaany for his literary work for the El Sapectador

agasino, and for ila friadablp with Marla Blena VAGUE GoDes (ALLI 6486,

October 1960) who la a suspect Soviet Agent.

•1

END'OF DISPATCH

Diatribution:

2 - Mexico City

INITIAL

¡ CROSS RETRENCE TO

37!- 331589

CARL DISPATCHIO

28 SEP 1962

25 SEPT. 1962!

S SATET STUPOL AND MMELA

1982-31-10929

MADQUAGTENS FUE ANGELE

201-331599

S BCRET

CHINEN

OHIGIAATINSS

1409g8

HU/SMEXICO C. Z. Bustos V

COORDING

RA S

AC/MexI

$940

10a18

DES LEVE

¿alE

2SR58

150 53

03

DISPATCH

3RS

---

