# 104-10013-10165

## Page 1

104-10013-10165

I UNCLASSIFIED

JERNAL

SECRET

USE ONLY

D. CON

ENTIAL?

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

HMM W 13244

DAY:

30 Dec64

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S ,

INITIALS

1o.whom,

2 WHITE

3.

GOODPASTURE

6.

7.

Phillips

Вун!

99-27M

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

670 EDITIONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

P-8593

Rcüd: 4.0

INTERNAL

USF

MADE CIRCUNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DISPATCH

Chief of station, Mexico City

CASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

INFO.

FROM

Chief, hil Division

SUBJECT

Information Possibly Connected With the Assassination

of Pregident Kennedy.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

FYI

EGGA 3171, 2 Novenber 1964.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDISING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Attached beretth is a copy of a CcI to the FBI reporting an

Incident which might possibly be connected with the assassination of

President Kennedy by Lee Harvey OSWAID.

Thumbre

• Chester D. DAINOLD

Attachment:

OSCI

316/02545-64 (1 cy)

Dup of

779-927-AX

Distribution:

O81 - COS, Mexico Olty wI cy att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW-13244

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

30 December

31 DEG 196l

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-322247

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

23 DEC 1964

TO

• Disester

Pederal Di

1877

We Bonny

I An untented duve

formation he alleged aus

ropon. The saleise of tr

anthen someded him of ten

mity formlabel me with the fr

me Cater

19, but tie he had toget

Commenter

& The celestiat enti

Ches by chuce ho had been es le

Amport on the alloumeo

fell. Two men, when be

entered the sar entrine o

re aronsed, Ael ho was di

ferced to lend at Titutes

he mign at the Clue, Manl

0 te ton

Choorlend thrt the Cuo men 1

Anton Ol Frondon Honestys

hmil acted in the piy of GASTRO,

and the the two Cubina had Seva in,

Dallas to esg almo or overate the

And been gronty distroceed by wh

in mel to

in someone about 1.

no chen chat buse use t to call any so

mboal it, at they would weth be shet ly the Callas.

I. The source has peesed away since furuteling the above infer

anton, chun enting sa foller up on the matter Impossible.

SECRET

(rupert

ValIII,,

NO

T0R51841

DIG SEM

si 8605t$)

1006-1963

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Tatten

---

