# 104-10186-10199

## Page 1

104-10186-10199

INTORMATION REPORT

INTORMATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

REPORT

• materia containe inform aton afreund the nations arien de dan talld otate within the meaniod of toe lapionage lara i

I#, U BC

1 BENS TPA. ANO SAINATIANNO ON FETPATICE O INICH IN ANY MANAPP TO AN UDAUCHOPIANS PIPICE LA DIONIDEA tE &

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00605-65

SUBJECT Alfredo PROENZA

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

& February 1965

1.

REFERENCES

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

1964

Washington, D. C.

January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INfOrMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The follawing report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

the source

and Includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take

no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

of the Department of Investigations and was later transferred

to the l8th Police Station.

complexion, short black

halr, an oval face, and protruding teeth.

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no information on PROENZA.

4/108

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

dong arog.

1804:10.94.

STATE

1 DIA

ARMY .

REP CINCLANT

(Naza. Field dieriburton indicated ty " ")

NAYY

CINCSO #

I AIR

NSA

1 OCR

I FBI 2

I&NS

INFORMATION REPORT VINFORMATION REPORTA

SILLIA

TE

ILX 2209

MI. SALMOBIL

WELER

WE

1507316/0060561

RID/AN

WAL/HAYE

TOTALS

WH/SA

8

(1 ), WE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

LIAISON*

OSONOIMATINSRELEASAG

BEs. Cb:suk

19-5-1

---

