# 104-10167-10134

## Page 1

104-10167-10134

SEGNZT

He August 1959 :

HEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Notification to Intolligence Community of CLA

Contact with Marcos DIAZ LAns

Lo Following our evacuation of Marcos DLAZ Lans from Caba to Tamp,

Morida on 25-27 July, Noadvised certain U.S. Iatalligence agencies of CIA's

contaet with DIAZ as described below:

AL. Porces On 30 July I told Colocal Fishburn that so vero

In touch with DLAZ, in Mians (whore we bad noved hin roamiz'le) and that

na could nato him arallablo to the Air Ports for debrieliag. I suggested

that the Air Force might wish to mait our laitial report on our debrief-

1ng of Lane before deciding whetber to follow 1t up with a debriefing of

their or. Colonel Fisbburn concurred in tale idea.

Bo Arays On 3 Angust I asted Hr. Jases Roberton of II staff to

pass to Aray the sane Inforation and suggestion as tbose whie: I had

Eiren to Colonel Fishbura, and MI. Roberton said he would do this.

C. FBI! Mrs, Jane Roman told Mr. San Papleh on 28 Jaly that DIAZ

was under our control in Florida, jat we had assisted bin in-leaving

Caba clundestinely, and that we could mate lin available to the Pureen

for debriefing.

State:

On 28 or 29 July Mr. Coser telephoned Mr. John H1il at

State to advise bin that DIAZ was 1n Florida and that ve were: in touch

with hi.

2. It 18 to be notod that of all the intolligence aguacles referrod to

above, only the FI was inforued of our participation in the escape of DIAZ

cooperácia nu sub,

guts can yare is the 4. S.

03

1s/In/ Caribbean

RETURN TO CLA

Background Uns Onty

Do Not Progroduce

SONNET

VBR

---

