# 104-10172-10336

## Page 1

104-10172-103361

• RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

JECHEL

ALA

2200

OFHA 2792

14-1

chief, vs

Chiat of Beatlon

20 July 1956

REDEd?, RUINPROVE

[arthur do LOHHATS | Db

RKFE REICE:

Logn? 2282, 15 June 1956

0b

The Subject and his faally left ialsinkl for sood on 17 July

1956. LOHLATES had jurt returnod from dis Becond

I Erip to the soviet

Union during the wak of d - 13 July and vas oniy in ialsinkl for four

M4-EF 1%e dogE prior to leaving for the united states via uropo.

ther

At

recast, the cultural stacho, Dr. its, called tatin) 06

into his office and astod him a fer dimplo questiona, auch as, hou was

na trip to the lii?, 1e he knew any jorlots in relsinid, and 18 so,

mich onse, Mooording to De. Ott, the jusjoot seared aulto andoua

to

ansor all these cuestions and even offered to siva fuller anaviro, 18

required.

lle addod thas be had taken many plotures mile in the soviet

Undon, Done of shieh mene of Bie sovlet officiala he not in kosco.

06

2. 31noo (L0ki17) sad agroed to talt more at leagth with an

Aneroar, Dr. Ott, as prarranged, told his that air. millina Manarlold

ould got 1n touch adth his over the roar-end by phone and arrange t

• hi. COHE gaTe 0st tre telephoro number of lia tomorary real

danse, but the

as unble to roach bia bocause no ono anamorod

the pione. Die days between 13 and 17 July vero rather busy at the

sinos two juRia ours officers sore hane on IDY and reruirad

vasying degrees of

assiatance. Both Andron 1. Routenna nod

Harald i: Shands, the casa officers in question, agreat to pose da

11211 an Hansfeld and do the Bobriefing 18 they could Mind the time.

Both, bomares, mero qui: a b185 and Lays could not do reachod.

Preter. / a de do to a Partite or a to on dia Boa to ease.

ile bone ad

tie was born on 20

la can to soan fron the laforestion

at Ann Arbor nurt fall.

SECRET,

Gaoy

:C1-120462

"дро

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ri.

22

Oni4-1772

Pago Tuo

23 J12y 1956

0b

• (LOMrÁT 311e not ldereleal der te rulorlont atudent dano !

Lietiine aporo of.

nB6 96uer 10 schn H. buGzn or lartoruth callego

uho tas debriefod by liarald d. Mundo on li daly. Do

5.

Mo prroonalleloo of tne orost whoa EStiolisi) sas sot cocn to do

CCLUB (Pnu), a iorlel Vioa Counsul nho la an asadatani to Ivan SalasTEV,

nd furl Volarid, Ho aleo not a Finaian Oasnis: mand Ruist (1u)

O MA RtLIng WEN CLUD NOd YOIONIN aE a Elanlan restaurent. On on

OcEABIOR ICHUATaJ datod OOLU3 orer so lis apartaent for a drini and

muggestod that Cüluu bring WTONly and the Mnnish Cormnlat along.

un the Pinnioh Coununlat did not turn up dor s drink, Lonnar 7 aule

his Rusaian questa ny.

Dna of the Busulana allegodly ropiiol that,

'so do not lllos to anrocdate uith thoss Flnniah Cormuniata, Hany of

those Comuniets tho would babray their on country nould aldo botray

uo toof you oan' t trunt thei."

6. On ona occasdon La lirsel dar tha Mim's paasport and noted chat

ho had tiramlled to practically evary country in the vorld.

In EONNTIRTE USIS relo tbaro la a lottor dalod 16 dprll 1955,.

ro do da tottata) aako paralaaion to go to the soriot union. The loctor

"I have boen Invilod by the Surlot Acadory of Solenoes to

eivo ono or tho looturos in toncou se the end of thie roal.

me dato ol departura i'ron Halsinkl has not jot been Mrod

but I ehould lube to iníora rou at this tlmo al tho piang.

Tra Mialt vell not sacoad throe or lour dayo.

Sinderely,

1ol (ho d, Lonmator)

although UJI9 has boen repeatodly briofed that the limbasay la intereatod

1 5oatho ldo, io o eani caote vo ló partoa, a ta uo as

toot, 1o artal vene t Aod may do do aat a to boo cy nmme u sá tao

SA niduiT, 1l LoOKs ao 11 ho to0% tn0 eripe aloo. douerer, lia f1lo anly

ralero lo ono.

rctn

---

## Page 3

SECRET

22

[Or H0-2792

Page Tiste

23 JuLy 1956

9. Do mot that the abor infomation lo so spotty lo a direct

marian en tr 9s1'o dabrints sich ma vory superfledal because

boli Do and thal

datali barero be dare Maland.

a Tie in the Mrus In the Sttion Me beard of Vica Coral

The Station

Malvin N. Pendleton

70 day 1956

:81-126481e

SgD

---

