# 104-10163-10092

## Page 1

104-10163-10092

27

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECR

2t1

OUTING

• 6.

.;7

I8

FROM: UMWAVE

ACTION:

INFO:

3

IN (COPY ISSUED TO IN & SDO AY: 2238, /T FEB DD)

SE CR 516-1723322

FEB 18 $312Z; 65 IN 82931

DIR INFO JLANT BARR CITE WAVE 839" AC

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-1 FROM

FRANK FIORINI. REF: UFG-6718. RID:

INDEX. FILED 1723327

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: DECISION OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN PILOT ON

THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULED FOR 16 FEBRUARY 1965

DOl: 17 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (17 FEBRUARY 1965). UFG-6727

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESS-IN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS, THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S.

INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK FIORINI.

IW COMMENT:

WHI/SA

WHLREG

112

8

RETURN TO CIA

Becker neprodio

TDCS DB-315/00576-65

ROUTINE

BASED ON:

PRIORITY

UFG 6727

NP/AMCLATTER/1

LIAION,"

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

18 FEBRUARY 0533 265

SEGREI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

I/BR

tres

---

## Page 2

e 3007

CONFIDENTIAL

fixtua

Ashans Filled lod

CONFIDENTIAL

mit in

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO

17 FEBRAURY 1965

- SUBJECT -

DECISION OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN

PILOT ON THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULED FO.?.

16 FEBRUARY 1965

PLACE &

SOURCE

AND

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (17 FEBRUARY 1965)

120;

SIFG. 1261

@ ROUTINE

TDCS DB-315/00576-65

DISTR. 18 • EBRUARY 1965

N 82931

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6727

APPRAISALe A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE

HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION

WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK FIORINI.

— 1. AT ABOUT 4888 P.M. ON 17 FEBRUARY 1965 FRANK FIORINI SAID

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER OF THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCiONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) AGREED TO LET THE CUBAN PILOT FLY THE

MISSION SCHEDULED FOR 16 FEBRUARY INSTEAD OF THE AMERICAN PILOT.

•(FIELD COMMENTS THE SAME SOURLE REPORTED THAT BOSCH HAD SCHEDULED

AN AIR STRIKE AGAINST THE CITI OF HABAÑA FOR 16 FEBRUARY. IN A B-25.

AN AMERICAN PILOT WAS TO FLY THE AIRCRAFT BUT WAS TO BE ACCOMPANIED

BY A CUBAN PILOT.) THE CUBAN PILOT HAS BEEN TRAINING IN THE E-25

AND APPARENTLY IS EXPERIENCED ENOUGH TO MAKE THE TRIP TO CUBA.

This material contalne information allecting the National Delente of the Unital Slates wihin the Leaning it the Esplonsfe

Laws, Title I8, U.S.C. Seca. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation; of which in any anne: to an unauthoriece person

prahibited by law.

CONTROLIES. BSSE

"GROUP"

CONFIDENTIAL

SBATE/INA DIA ARMYIACSI

NAVY

AIR

ICS SECDEF

NSA

NIC

TREASURY

FBI IRIS BORDFP : ATROL CUCTOMS

" AD/CI 2

CLANCE COAST GUARIA

cPm1466:71088

EXO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NTO 1-04 (20)

MARONED DISSEM

IN 82931 -

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS DB-315/00576-05AGF 2

HE HAS HAD PREVIOUS TRAINING IN A SEA FURY AND IN A TWIN-ENGINE

SEAPLANE, PRESUMABLY A PBY.

FIORINI SAID THE B-25 WAS PURCHASED

IN TUCSON, ARIZONA, NOT IN TEXAS AS HE PREVIOUSLY STATED.

2. THE CUBAN PILOT IS THE SAME PERSON WHO WAS TO MAKE A

BOSCH-FINANCED RAID IN A SINGLE-ENGINE AIRCRAFT AGAINST AN UNSPECIFIED

TARGET. THE PLANE WAS TO LEAVE FROM THE KEY WEST AREA.

3. FIORINI SAID THAT BILL JOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO

HAS BEEN ARRANGING THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR BOSCH'S RAIDS, RECEIVED

AN UNIDENTIFIED SUM OF MONEY FROM BOSCH ON 17 FEBRUARY.

4. ACCORDING TO FIORINI, IF THE RAID HAD NOT TAKEN PLACE

ALREADY, IT WOULD PROBABLY BE MADE WITHIN 24 HOURS.

5º FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CiNESO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, LENS, AND USCO.

'':.

!!!:

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONSOLES BIRTH

---

