# 104-10147-10129

## Page 1

104-10147-10129

1: 1: K1.1

LA/COG/258-77

3 NOV 1377

MEMORAGHON FOR:

Oilice of the Legislative Counsel

HIA

SA/ADDO

FRON

SUBJECT

Raymond A. Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

Allegation by a Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning the Role of Cuban Exiles in

the Assassination of President Kennedy

According to a fairly reliable source, a senjor

Cuban diplomat stationed abroad made certain charges in

late. September 1977 concerning the alleged role of Cuban

exiles

in the assassination of President John F. Kenned).

This diplomat made these allegations to his colleagues

in the

course of an official meeting in his embassy. The

diplomat said, among other things,

that Cuban exiles

such as former

• Cuban

Air Force officer Dia

z Lan (fnu)

and others had been involved in the assassination of

President Kennedy.

The diplomat referred to the assas-

sination

in the context of a security lecture in which

he claimed that counter-revolutionary activities by Cuban

exiles have increased in recent months:

tie said that

recent

Kennedwinformation had arrived

implicating Di a z in the

assassination. The diplomat did not mention any

other Cuban exiles by name or provide any further details.

He did not

identify

the source of his

infornation, although

cur sourcs had the impression that the dipto 's allege.

tions vere based on a recent cable from the Cuban Ministry

of Foreign Affairs.

2.

This division has no other factual information

concerning the diplomat's allegations.

We believe that

the basis for the diplomat's statement was, prebably, in

article which appeared in the New York "Daily News" on

20 Septenber 1977.

This article quoted Maritza

Loren

as saying that she, Orlando Bas

ch, Frank

5, Pedro

n i a?

Lanz: tlin unnamed Cuban

unlie bruthers and lee laires Ostild loins

WARMING NOLICF

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

E2, INPDET

CL BY: 012034

---

## Page 2

14-00000

assassination squad shich vent to bullas to assassinate

President fennedy.. le linow of no information in our

Tiles to substantiate

that allegation.

33 .

Dia

is à former chief of the Cuban Rebel

Air Force.:

He is not nor is there any record that ho

has

ever been an Agency asset, although he could have

been debriefed by us after he left Cuba.

4.

There have been various press articles in the

past alleging that

Lo ren z was a CIA agent. She

is not ai

agent or employee of this Agency nor is there

any information indicating that she ever was an agent

of employee of this Agency.

S.

The above information may be passed in part or

in its entirety to the House Select Committee on Assas-

sinations. The FBI has already been informed of the

significant details in this matter.

Is/ George V. Lauder

Raymond A. Warren

DDO/ LA/ GOG/CIOS/

I: rcw (1 Novenber: 1977, X9194)

Distribution:

Orig &. 1 - Addressee

1 - LA/COG/Chrono

(2 = C/LAD

..- Originator

SA/ADDO (Benson Grayson)

IG Staff (Scott Breckinridge

Hold

S

• PC R ET

---

