# 104-10192-10039

## Page 1

104-10192-10039

CLASSITIEO MESSAGE

DENU

SEC-RET

R

P

R

MON JAVAVE

ACTION

INO

1w.

DOP,

ADOP,

SOD 4, DO/H; CAP-CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CAVO 4, CI, CI/OPS, CHAIC 2, CH/PS

Fl, FI/D,

FI/INT 6, RI/Ait,

/C 12; WI S, WE 2, VR, FILE.

SECRETIZZZZIZ

MAR 13 81132, 65 IN 228630

DIR INFO LANT

BARR CITC WAVE 9464

NINGHURST

ACTING)

INTEL TYPIC

SEDATA NELE, NEGO REPORT O 28 PECEIN A SINTO MESE

MARCH 65. A-I' IS UNIDENTIFIEO INDIVIQUAL, PARA lO A-I SECHEDULEO

FOR PANAM 1I85 LOCAL DEPARTURE. FOR PUERTO RICO, WILL REPORT DETAILS

AS DEVELOPED. RID: INDEX. FILEO I2Z2L4Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLEO DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA/THE BAHAMAS

SUBJ: POSSIBLE BOAT: OPERATIONS

OVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY)

DOI: 11 MARCH 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (11 MARCH 65)

MICROFILMED

APR

7.1965

DOC. MICRO. 5k

IW COMMENT:

R

al t

ED19-6-95/4

P

WH/C

WH/REG

121

8

WE/BCIR

RELEA

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

13 MARCH 1965

055%

SECRET

19- 300- 20

TDCS DB

315/084678065 P

X IROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON

UFG 6824

NP (AMF IX-L/AMOT)

LIAISON:

1391

4-88 1 389

... o

E DUCDOR BL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7/9P

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

1.55

FROM

ACTION

INO

APP

PAGE 2

IN 22063

UFG 6824

SOURCE: A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUSAN EMIGRES TRAINEO IN THE

TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED

USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

IN COMMENTI

TOCE

I ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

LIAISON

SECR

ET

'SHERUSED.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE I PROMIBITED.

EPARE AARA

Copy Na.

---

## Page 3

1089 2001

- CONFIDENTIAL

Min Milled In

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FORCION DISCH, CORTICILEO DISCIO

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO

CUBAV.THE BAHAMAS

11 MARCH 1965

NINAL INTELLIOINCA AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCS DB 315/00846-65

DISTIL 13 MARCH 1965

SUBJECT

POSSIBLE BOAT OPERATIOHS BY MIRR

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

UNITED STATES, MIAMI

•(11. MARCH 1965)

REF

FIELD REPORT NO

IN

22863

UFG 6824

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL.

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBA EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION

COLLECTIONI. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SICE 1961.

it rubo

201-299292

1.. ON 9 MARCH 1965, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, CHUEF OF THE MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA MIRE, INSURRECTIONAL

MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) MET WITH AN UNIDENTIFIED.

INDIAQUAL SKILLED IN SMALL BOAT OPERATONS TO REQUEST THAI

THE INDIVIDUAL COOPERATE WITH THE MIRR IN A MARITIME PROJEST WHICH

WOULO TAKE PLACE iN THE NEAR FUTURE FROM A KEY IN THE BAHAMAS.

BOSCH SAID THE MURR HAD TWO BOATS FOR. THE PROJECT, ONE OF WHICH

WOULO BE THE "ADELAIDA PEREDA" WHICH IS PRESENTLY FISHING FOR

LOBSTERS IN THE BAHAMAS. :

2.. ON 18 MARCH AT ANOTHER MEETING WITH THE SAME UNIDENTIFIED

This msterial conting Informalion affecting the National Defense of le

United States within the meaning of the Espionage

Laus, Tille 18. U.S.C.

cis. 74) and 79d, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person i

GROUP I

probitird dy lam.

no reason crazilen

nebraten frans

ALT GOSL

CONFIDENTIAL

STATEINR DIA ARMY/AGSI MAVY AIR

jCS SECDEF

NSA NIC

FRI

LEIS TREASURY

---

## Page 4

NO PILLION OSSIN, CONTICULA DISSEM

IN

22063-

Ti:•=

CONFIDENTIALIM:S

TDCSD3 315/00846-68A08 12

INDIVICUAL, BOSCH SAID IT WAS NECESSARY THAT THE INDIVIDUAL GO TO SAN

JUAN, PUERI& ARE, 1405SICK UP A BOAT WHICH IS OWNED BY A NATIVE

PUERTO RICAN WHO MAD MADE IT AVAILABLE TO THE MIRR FOR: THE PURPOSE

OF AIDING MIRR ACTIVIST OPERATIONS. ACCORDING TO BOSCH, THE BOAT. IS

A FORMULA 225 (AS RECEIVED), 23 FEET LONG, AND IS DOCKED AT A.

PIER IN SAN JUAN. THE BOAT POSSIBLY WAS TO BE TAKEN TO PLANAS. KEY

(N 22-50, W 73-30); HOWEVER, THIS IS NOT DEFINITE. THE KEY,

ACCORDING TO BOSCH, IS ABANDONED AND WILL BE THE PLACE FROM WHICH

MIRR WILL OPERATE. BOSCH ALSO SAIO, THAT SOME WEAPONS (UNSPECIFIED)

WOULD HAVE TO BE PICKED UP AND TAKEN TO PLANAS KEY: ALONG WITH THE

BOAT.

3. BOSCH WAS TO PROVIDE AIRPLANE TICKETS TO PUERTO RICO ON 11

MARCH AND LAST MINUTE INSTRUCTIONS FOR. THE TRANSFER OF THE BOAT.

(FIELD COMMENT: SUBSEQUENT INFORMATION INDICATES THAT THE UNIDEN

TIFIED INDIVIDUAL MAY HAVE DEPARTED FOR PUERTO RICO ON 12 MARCH.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, LENS, FBI ANÓ CUSTOMS.

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

---

