# 104-10188-10015

## Page 1

104-10188-10015

Pully.

TO 06A6.0119S 1AEE1.00'5

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CH

2. RETURN THIS DOC

KM GA-50, ON 8.1/101.001:

•KDATEHAN VOL: I.

3.

IF YoU FOr

INDIVIDUAL

- 50 - 6-121/0

VI: DATES:

25 SexT 6x- 14 MAR 7V

•ST 179INI. UNIE/LOCATION:

110/000

-

p": - 3c34

• DELETIONS, IF AVY:

D/T:

PECEIVED RETURNED

ROUTINENT TY

(CHI MAUL)

2122/211

5/216/78

Do A

5 July 28

21 JUL

D. HARDWAY.

12/20/28

HARDWAY

ps

HAROWAY

Bark

STONATURE TE

REMINING OFFIGIA.

Dan Handing

FROM

THIS

F11I:.

LE

3

DRASTAT

P/der2

PROJECT

KDAFGHAN

VOLUSE I

SECTION

SUPPORT

•122/2

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORMARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE

INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE- 58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM 2593

17-131

---

## Page 3

SECRET

FROM: (Moadquartors componend)

iri:,

SUBJECI AND PROJECI FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD: NOTIFICATION OF ACHIN

IP/AN

/ (Statlon/Bose)

MEXICO CITY

FROM: (Ulvislon)

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTEHS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12

I'LA

1D-B PATER DID. TITLE MHEN. AMINGIG A FERRE. CITE:

511.6.5.

SUCH AS

201

DA PROJECT FILES PHAT ANE FIX.

118.09 S-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE DAHILE SINCE

TONY WILL

LATFO TO

PIS. BILE, COVENED BO INIS HEUNIOT. HEM 1O MAY

AJULAR ON THE FIELD COPILIANO ON MACHINE LISIS

ALSO DE: UILD SO GIVE REASONS FON THE ACTION BEING ME.

11Y9 B-ALL REMAHKO MUST DE STERILE.

QUIGIED. DO IDENTIFY THE TIFE OF MATHIAL 1O ISE PRACEO

IN AFILE UN 1O MARE DIMER FPLANATONY REHANNS.

BIAN 8 AND D-USE FIRIT THNEA LETTERS OF DISCAICH GUS.

8018 FOR

DAR ALAS

HEADQUAHIIIN ELR.

DAS. NIS ACCORDING 1O ESTAULBATO NUMERIC CUDIO

OUTS CHEON FOR COUNT SHALL EAS ACHONE

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

CODE FILEY NUMDER

TYPE OF FILE

SUBJECT

PROJECT

CUUNINE MUMBLA

÷0

CATACOAT NUMBER

6

122/2

SMILE TITLE SPECIFIC SUBICT PROJECTS LIMITEO TO TA SUACENT

MARGIE Support

ACTION

AMALYSIS ACTION

OFIN FILE

AMEN! FILE TITLF.

IBERIEN

O. HEMATES TFOR FIELD DISTRIAUTICAT

REQUINED

RETAIN

IP/ARD

DISPOSITION

TRESTRUCTION RECOIAMENDEO

THAU IUATE

INTERITED STATIONS IPROJECTS ONLYS

FILESACTION

HOLD IN

CI FILES

HESPRICTED

UNHESTRICIED

COMMENTS INCLUDE SMILIAL MEAUQUARTERS ROUTINÓ INSPRUCTIONEI

IO INTERISTTO HRALOUARTERS DESR ILIST ACTION DEAR FISTI

50

CHANGE PENMANENTLY TO

UFFICER @ DESKI

REPARE FOLDER ANI

ENT TO REQUESTEI

1 8.

ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESAR. O.

t € 30

UTECINE DATE

/ March 1973

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

83.B

812

1A56 92.65

COOMDINATION

SIGNATJOE DI

ISHANCH/DESA S. O.

50

SECRET

1J:

RIT APPROVAL

39

122/2

1-CS COPY

---

## Page 4

i. s-E-chi-s-T

CATECE CÜNDICHYN CHANGE - 20100071

NEAFGAN

FORMER CRYSTONYA - LIONION

CRYPTONYM CHANGE AUTHCRITED MY • ARMSTRUNG

COMPEVENT - ETORAN

IRIT OG RID SECTION CHIEF)

. OR

DOCUMONT REFERENCE GEROH ITEM 10. CE FORM 6121 - H9IS-7133

N-0-T-I-C-5

THIS IS AN RIO NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FICE

TITLE CRYPTONY: CAUCEO BY COMPROMISE. _IT.

IS TO BE PLACED IN TUS FILE INDICATEO AND

POSAIN THEREIN AS A DERMANENT GERICIAL

CS RECORD.

S-G-C-1-=-T

FILE i: - 050-006-122/02

---

## Page 5

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

FORT ROTTITS

-CASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES IN

SECRET

6411214.981.439

(Wher Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY

Missuso:

TION OF THIS COPY PRONIBITED

COUTING AYO OR INITIALS: SEEN B*

8

ACTION UNIT

ISD-EDOI

ETTON NE

FILE. VR L8/2X

WHs, pOP. Fl

SECRET 141955Z MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236

JINFOL

DIRECTOR

AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR

REF A.

HMMA - 41502

(11558398)

1O PLS PROCURE TWO 1000 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES

WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.

NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS

2. FOR

UNLESS ADVISED

DIFFERENTLY BY

SECRET

560483

SECRET

---

## Page 6

""7"

848'

Chior,

Mi Division; Chics, 00:021

Chact or Sincon, Faxico City

1N 13020 1008830

14330144

18:56 22

Hoference: K'SXICO CITY 15051

Tro Of tho Sicizos picturecoble Gesations, KoPiCIoR erd

2220D 192i6e

maine therented tint

:x5d tw.

Carrois and nes conimnont is

incrence

thie enpasilily cor icar courire durirg the

any chen light conditions are boor.

The DAlsd07e 11

1s locatod

in a very siall roc.i

Jons o! 1000 en pill noi lit dato to Spico mitrost trang out a

clicrodo vall partition.

Torelon b corpid Chibiopiric Lens

is scquired for lia project.

3.

Thó Palocore 1n the 197051a2 C9 ghould aluo bo replaceo

by tho soad cypa of dene avecoa macdonod ta parogatet 2.

Balacono now in USo 1s operated iron tho troof a ticle miere

1T00:03-2 not ai50 stand to sode mieter over a tind fall in

Me syston nudt bs arrored trio the tabie von noi in

une ind stored

ii?

a locacà foor locker.

and cinera abould be light and corpuce to incilltate their use and

storngo.

as con la soen iron rirarruphs to and thico r licht vorght

compact lons sputen is dentrad foi both projects and the Statton

-continued

Distribntion:

2.

trans

C/ARSPICE

42

2

— C/iOACHO

CATT

Chi-da, 502

020-20000

13 Jiuary 1C79

59- 6m]/:

---

## Page 7

look.

disinter

no one can i?,

It malots to corince tie cit talle.

wee: 1411º

Pilscood.

Tith minate tan

C10175.

Piano draird tha

barne

tills can

corting groccdures.

to continue

ilo

Blaried the arizon

Ca

A: Icest

• Charles

F.

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH

O ISSFILATION

SECRET:

INFO.

Chiof, WON'RE

Chict,

"Western Temisphere Division

Chiof, MKSPICE

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City3)~

SUBLEE

AQUATIC/RDAFGHAN

Ronewal of Passports for KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAY-2

ACTION RIQUIRED. RIFTRINCIS

Reference:

HMMN-17955, Il June 1970

154

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INOIXING

N IDLING REQUIRID

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN RUDGE INDITING -

The WOACRE-issued Cuban passports for Subjects have expired.

It is rcquested that

new passports be prepared for them. According

to KDAFGIIAN-1, the new

passports should carry the samo numbers as

the old passports.

The passports, and current photographs of

Subjects, are

being

forwarded under scparate cover. It is

requested that the old passports be returned.

leadercien

Elsie I. SCALETTI

Attachment:

As stated u/s/c .

1:..

Distribution:

Jorig. 8 1

- Chief, WOACRE (w/att. u/s/c)

1

- Chief, WHD

(w/o/att)

1 - Chief, NKSPICE (w/o/att)

in inside

CROSS REFERENCE TO

ne copy

DISPAICH STABOL AND ALABIR

HMMA - 41180

CASSFRLATION

SECRET

50. 6-129/2

DATE

"7 January 1972

MOS FIL NUMBER

301-305604

FIRE P-7,097

---

## Page 9

CABLE SECREIARIAT DISSEMINATION

ASNANCECOOE

ISRUID

eLDASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COFIES

SECRET

shen filled in a

REPACOUSTION OF THIS COPY FRAMIDITED

2/2 22 н

DIBEEN

15

FILE. VR

ACTION NOWHE

12s

LUGS 4

SECRET 091856Z NOV TI CITE MEXICO CITY 18173

SNov N 465588

DIRECTOR

ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN

10 REQUEST OBTAIN AND POUCH TO SIATION ON PRIORITY

BASIS FOR KDAFGHAN ONE EACH APRON, CLOTH FAWW

PAKONOMY PRINT DRYER MODEL 13-5. N- 5932. MR: PAKO

CORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS 4U, MINiO

•2. REQN 559-19-72 APPLIES.

SECRET

GP-1

SECRET

---

## Page 10

ADVANCE CURY

BLOTTED

€4

SECRET

(When Filled In) " 1555

REPHODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMINgED

ACTION UNiT

ISE

- 08

CHION'NO.

FILE, VR/AAN WH& DIP EI

SECRET 211720Z OCT.

INFO DIRECIOR, L

AQUATIC/ KDAFGHAN

DITE MEXICO CITY 18014 FROSTEDI ACTING)

2: 0cт 1. 451868

Lo KDAFGHAN-I HAS FOR YEARS USED BALSCOPE LENS

WITH 20 X EYEPIECE FOR ID PHOTOGRAPKY OF VISITORS AND

EMPLOYEES ENTERING KDACOUSTIC. TO IMPROVE QUALITY

PHOTOGRAPHY AND INCREASE CAPABILITY DURING EVENING

HOURS WHEN LIGHTING POOR STATION PREFERS A PHOTOGRAPHICALLY.

CORRECTED 1000 MM TELEPHOTE LENS FOR PROJECT. PLS ADVISE

AVAILABILITY OF ABOVE LENS FRON WOACRE STOCK. IF PROJECT

TO DE CHARGED FOR LENS NOTIFY STATION.

2. MISPICE DOES NOT HAVE THIS TYPE LENS IN STOCK, GP-I.

SECRET

pa- file.

SECRET

Davis 00

---

## Page 11

COULE SECHITANAT DISCORATO:

FS SECRET

TUrAL COPIES: Pra

lAusai Fioria.

BUONG ANCH GATOALCO.

V:.

MASSAI DT.

SE CR E T 222053Z OCT 70 CITE NEXICO CITY 4653

INFO

DIRECT OR

RYDAT AQUATIC

REF:

(10189977)

1. FÓLLOWING IS A LIST OF EQUINENT USED IN PROJECTS

COME EACH OF ITETS LISTED)S

22C81: 191057

TELESCOPS, BALECOPE BAUSCH AND LOUSE;

CAMERA, SP, I MN, EXAIKTA WO LENS;

CAMERA, PENTAN ARL H3V;

.B.,

. ICAILA

TELESCOPE, S-I, BAUSCH AND LOMBO,

BALSCOPE;

CAMERAO SP, 35 PRi, EXANIA, MO/LENS;

C..

LIONI ON

BINOCULARS, 1OZSO, TASCO, JAP NDLE

TELESCOTA, BALSCH AND LOMB BALSCOPE SA:;

CAMERA, PENTAX 35 MM;

DRIER, PHOTO PANONOMY MIDL 130;

ENLARGER, LEIIZ WETZLER FOCCHAT 1C3

BOTOROLA MANDIE-TALKIE FM RADIOPHONE;

C

• SECRET

FILE: LIONION SUR

---

## Page 12

CADA SESSE DILERA LO

TOTAL COMES

(When Fillesf ln)

Castel de as cert

1498890MT.

ICTION CATT

ACTION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE & MEXICO CITY AGS3 SECRET

MOTOROLA RADIOPHONE;

CAMERA, RETINA;

LENG, RETINA 50:14;

LENS, RETINA 35:019;

LENS, RETNA 8O1,

50-6-32/20

20 FILE: FERROXIN

GP--

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 13

DISPATCH

SECRET

INSO

Chick, Western Hemisphore Division

FICA

XXX

PRCFESSING ACTIOM

MACKID FOR 062 1390

NO INDEXING EFOLZATO

ONLY QUALIFTO DESA

CAN FUDGE PEDDING

Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City,"

MAK ROTTIN

O Transmittal of Document Receipt for LIOVION Passports

ICTION RIQUIRIO - RUERINCES

Roference: INNN - 17955, 11 June 1970

Forwided undor soparate cover is the document receipt

for the LIONION passports.

for/Horace E. PRALLEFT

Pertt.

CROSS REPRENCE 1O

Attachment:

document receipt (u/s/c)

Distribution:

Orig. and 2 - Chief, WID (w/att, u/s/c)

CS COPY

DASPATCH SYABOL AND NUMBER

HAMA - 39115

CLASSIAICATDAA

SECRET

DATE

26 June 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

N50-6-122/2

---

## Page 14

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Chief, Western lemisphere Division

XX

DAJO.

FROCISSING RCT.ON

BAGPIO FOR INDEXING

NO NDIXING REQUIRED

ONLI QUALIO DESK

¡CAN JUDGE PEDENING

Chief of Station, Mexico Clty

PERUMEN LIOSION TECHS/Request Tor Rencial of PBRUNEY Passports

foI LIONION-I and LIOYION-2

ACTION RIQUILD - RIFLENCES

Action Reguired: Ronew passports and return

Reference

.: HMA - 13,672, 3 June 1965

Forwarded under separate cover in true name pouch are

the WOACRE PBRUMEN passports for LIONION-1 and LIOVION-2,

issued

by Reference.

understands

These passports have expired, and the Station

that they can be lenewed for another period.

Due to

the sensitivity of the LiONION operation,

Subjects cannot obtain

regular PBRUMEN documentation locally, and must have them in order

to leave Mexico and return.

It is requested that WOACRE revalidate the passports

and return them

to the Station for re-issuance to Subjects.

for/John A. PROBERT

--.-

Distribution:

Orig. and

2 - Chief, WHD WiLT USE.

CROSS RUFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOI AND MUMBER

HMMA - 38843

FIASITICATION

SECRET

CATE

27 April 1970

MOS KLE NUMBER

1/50-6-122/2

---

## Page 15

17640.

1939

Sit7

DISPATCH

FROSSSE 20794

SECRET

MEKP HE NETS:

Cier of Station. Mesico City

Chief of Station, JAVI

Ziel, Hestern Hemisphere Divis100

-LIONION/Impulse Canera File

CAN JUDGE INDE RISG

MICROFILSS

Action Required: See below

beferences: A.

HNMA-33841, 17 January. 1969

B.

UFGT-21267,

12 February

1568

C. UFGT-21342,

22 Pedruary 1968

I. In view of references A and Band the small cost involved

in operating the tapulse camera Headquarters sill continue to pro

cess this film.

3.. Request JAVAVE pouch the film cited in reference C to

Brasquarters for processing.

Bonald L.. PERRODIN

Distibution:

Crig.

COS, Mexico City

1 - COS, JMWAVE

CROSS REFFREAKE TD

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMER

HAM#- 16194

SECRET

BI

CRONO

OFFICE

WH/1

OFFICE STARSCL

WH/COG

5: -6-122/2

DATE

1 March

DOES FRIE BULABIR

1968

50-6-122/2

I'C

COORDING

BATT

OFFICER'S NAME

3/5b5 laul = oberst

116951

WH/1

3. dix

C/WH/1

I DALE

1 Nar 68.

Popini

1-aJ

53

142 344VI0US EDITON.

40020. 1.14,1

Firy. Kaufean

DISPATCH

---

## Page 16

jared.

beer

1403,

The

current babir

faren on

Ваке:

correndations me

daterpie

Teaulen of

1292526226 DocenT

was cased in 196. deo 2:00:115

Want rash tar

ten contain

79Y"

iecrrest2

476HL9N.

=0r.

trillars

X944140.02F

He record that 6 ShooTen 10r

•cord chanded tha certitu

Spaston officia

292

""!:

Anouris

Paid

пля дика

an, arm

M5:09d3:9:0AE2 S801001 22/280527

Jutares Jilomes for terite City aspy mordoed Bor

Rection did i:

1.269216101664

•l!-.go60!

rit to:

moppies see riflate us lad toothel llidgs9994s

Finance hesaste

...-.sx

is or carder or crewere transeelere:

touchess

ted cohanlande was

MONTO 09÷3191

i mated a

ССС

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECBET

Culer of Station, Mexleo City

Aten:. Valter M. CORKDUPY

Cidol uf Station,

Chief, BOACRR

ANUATIC/LIONION

Techaica! Inforuation

Rajoronco: IBA 31767 dated 11 April 1967

LIONION & pbutographic results continuo to be satisfactory

for

all concerned.

•It la tberolore advisable that no changes in

proceduro be ande at bla tine.

It is apparent that LIONION I releyed the incorrect devel

oping

formula for the bulbo caners fils.

forbays thie error lo due to

his Inactivity In procossing such file for over a your. Since the

conception of this operatiun all pulse capers filn has boon developed

In Microdol X.

On the other hand, Trd & fila used in the LIONION 3

•operation (Penta, casera and, Balacope) has traditionally born dovel

oped in Acufine.

All pulse canora film is processed at leadquartors by an

autonnile Muaton systen.

Tine and tesperature inforsation vaich the

Jab uses would be of little value to your devolopment proceduro.

• Tho

results of your recent test indicate that it should bo satisfactory

for on occasional checi on the eguisent.

The difforonco botween Plus & Nepative and Plus & Fio 11la

is worth only one half "p" stop, which should cause no probles 18 you

docide to uso the latter.

Distribution:

1 - COSA

Albert J. LASCOFF

56-6-100/3

Group 1 - Excludad iron

autonatle dongrading

and declasalfleation

- TSD/Reg

wW/1

F/4/2

TSD/ TOPS

2 - POB 11les

KANS S388

SECLET

TSD/ POB

wH/L

WHl/2

TSD/TOPS

25 Apr

35 April 1967

RWH

ery

Mr.

Mr. Hidalgo

2378

by phose x8955

I5421

in draft

TSD/COP

QUENTIN C. JOINSON

---

## Page 18

otie.

Linded,

1 9.

ДAУ8.

c/emo

Wil/Logistics

6282

4 April 1967

CA06Д

B84081d4e

01840 MA 190n8

4. 4-8

D

RID COPY

188:Ce 8084

TOTAL COPIES.

SECRET

t04#

0) DRON

FINg

5

bad blad

1901'2

D

FILD IN CA PILS NO,

• L0654 T5D6

ISECRET

1o MEXICO CITY

LIONION

REFERENCE:

CITE DIRECTOR: 89630

7

MEXICO CITY 0912 (IN 34374)*

PX PAS-17 FILM ASA 125 CAN BE USED BY CLOSING DONN CAVERA LENS ONE

HALF F-STOP SMALLER OPENING, ALTERATION TO IQSK PROCESSING NOT NECESSARY.

WHeres

REQN: 559-59-67 WILL FURNISH ASA 80, PXN 417

A' NON-STOCKED FILN, FYI,

STOCK NUMBER 6750-1103-0513 IS FOR PX PAN- 417 ASA 125. DO NOT RE-ORDER

PXN-$17 FILM BY THIS STOCK NUNBER.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH/COMMENT:

LIONION Pulse Camera has been using PXN-417 filn ASA 80,

but supply just received is PX Pan

417 ASA 125.

Chunk Piter,

WILLIAM V. BRUE

C/WID

MIRAINS OPINIS

Telecoord:

TSD/FOB,

OL/SD/CCDB,

COCIAMARIMO ORPICIAS

SECRET

GHOUP Y

WE BABA WRAPP

REPTODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

50-6-132

trippet

ASternoo

KING

C/NH/LOG

AAITHENTIC ATIMO

OPPICEA

COPY NO

---

## Page 19

aer.

TO BRANCH O

0.10.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DERSOMIUANS SOTATINO

COPIEs

21

REPROCUCTION PRUINITES

256

AitTON.

1 180

ADVANCE COPY

UMIT

LIE VR TSD6, LUGS4,

SECREASING LIE MEAL LA DYIE

DIRECT OR

LION ION TECHS

REF A MEXICO CITY 8681 (IN 2ITTZ)

8 RQN NO 559-59-67

LION ION PULSE CAMERA MAS BEEN USING PXN-AIT FILM

ASAS4. SUPPLY JUST RECEIVED IS PX PAN 417 ASA 125. IF

LATTER USED WITH SAME SETTING IN LIONION CAN HQS COMPENSATE

IN DEVELOPMENT? IF NOT FLEASE MONITOR REF (B) AND EXPEDITE

SHIPMENT OF PROPER FILM.

SECRET

SECRET

31 H 67334374

NNNN

---

## Page 20

DISPATCH

SECRET

citer, WOACRE

Aten:

Geoffrey K. FLOXALO

chief, liH: cos,

(Clement k5 BROCK)

chief of station, Mexico Citya

SUBJECT

OAQUATIC/LIONION Pulse Camera

ACTION REQUIRLO - REFERENCES

Action: See paragraph 5.

XX

LESSING ACTION

MINE FOR BENES

MONITE SPEND

CAN ME MIS

MICOVER

The LIONION Pulse Camera has been working for well over

veer with no major technleal problen.

A few months ago the

100 foot

magazine had to be repaired because the supply spindles had

tightened

and

put an excessive strain on the motor.

More recently, the battery supply had dropped to about

The sensor relay

22.5 volts or

so causing erratie operation because of chattering and

the VLS-2 and the camera

suffered the most

consequently arcing

between the points..

3.

To prevent failures of this type in the future, Raymond l.

BARCENAS is making a small battery charger at a nominal

cost that

can be floated across the batteries keeping them fully charged.

We are doing it this way

rather than ordering

a DC power supply

because it is less expensive than a commercial model and

will not

be bothered by house current interruptions or fluctuations.

however.

WOACRE/PB foresees any problems by doing it this way, please

inform

US -

4.

On a recent visit to LIONION and a check of the equipment,

it was

found that the

lens of his FOCOMAT IC enlarger has a

fungus

like smudge between the elements.

We cannot detect

any degradation

in print quality

but would like o have a new one in case this is a

fungus and it gets worse.

In summation it is requested that WOACRE/PB provide the

following to Mexico City, charge 7135-2403.

Sensor Relay believed to be a Patter-Bromfield 5A5089

but please check;

b. Comments on the power supply;

c. Lens for a Leitz FOCOMAT IC.

SIM NO: 5-5037-2167

=

Distribution:

WOACRE

WH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COM

tar?

DISPATEN SYMBOL ASO MINGEN!

HMMA - 31294

CLASSIFICATAIE

SECRET

willard C. CURTIS

...""i

7 February 1907

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-12212

---

## Page 21

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIPICATION

SECRET

PROCISSING ACTION"

MARKO FOR INDEXING

Chlef, KURIOT

Aten:

Peter T: SWINEHART

Chief, WH Olvlsion

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFINO DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEMINO

PROM

Chief of Statione Mexico City

AUCROFILAL.

SUBJECT

AQUAT I /PBRUMEN/LIONION -- Transmittal of 350m Pulse Camera

ACTION ALOUIREO • REFERENCAS

Reference: MEX1-3960

1.

The attachment contains the defective 35mm Pulse Camera

previously reported in referenced rable.

information can be supplied,

Very little additional

concerning this mechanical fallure,

other than that reported in

the

reference

was installed on

This particular camera

16 June: 1965 and operated normally from that dare

untll the afternoon of

28 June, at which time lt began to continually

blow fuses.

Hugh

T. FRANCOTTE entered the LIONION photographle

baschouse

that alght, and when

not be

corrected

on

it was found that the problem could

the scene,

the camera was renoved and token to

MKCHARITY

for

further troubleshooting.

It was finally discovered

that the shutter motor was malfunctloning and partlally burned-out.

Joseph M. RESCIGNO stated that since there was a definire

"short"

in the motor, this rould cause the camera fuses to constantly blow.

Also Included in the atrachurent are two (7), one hundred

film magatines.

Both

these magozines are faulty,

They were both

Pulse Camera which became Theyeware both ing sate day he waylous

foot capacity i im to jam.

new magazines

forwarded to KURDT Headquarters for rissued to LIOMION/1. for use

FRANCOTTE had two (2)

In stock,

they were

with the camera presently being returned for repair or replacement.

willard C. CURTIS

Atrachment:

Camera

Film magazines

Distr/butlong

2 = KURIOT,

wlatts

1 - WH, w/o atts

CROSS REFERENCE 1O

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND AUMBER

HMM&-26520

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

s COP iO 150 - 6.15

DAYE

1 July 1965

HOS ? LE NUPADE&

50-6-18

---

## Page 22

DISPATCH

SECRET

COS, Mexico City

ATTN: Hugh T. FRANCOTTE

And ATTN: l'aurence F.

BARTER

PASCAIAINO

1:80.

TO LANE'S POUT 4E

MATEST LiA

Passports for LIONION. - I and 2. Cave 5670, 5670-A

PRIORITY

ACTION REQUIRED: Parag 2, 3

REF: HMMA-26017, 4 May 1965

1. New passporte were losued for LIONION - 1 and for LIONION -2 la

accordance with your roquest.

Ibese documents so well as the z old pao

porta aro being sent to you la true name pouch.

2, The documento have a validity period of 5 yoare from dare of losue:

burger: poo alre they or a doctor he palapore have moved beir

the documeata:

3.

• When the LIONIONS -1 and 2 havo recolved their immigration papers,

please try to send the original documento so KURIOT for a brief enemination.

18 they cannot be seat, KURIOT would ilke to have color-annotatod photo-

copies of them,

LEON T. CISSEL

ATTACHMENT: 1 envl.

1. Documeata. U/S/C/T/N/P

DISTRIBUTION: .

3 - COS, Marico Cily, w/att

PEES TAPEN TO

19 - 137 - 113

27 May 1965

/ TSD/REC

2 .. WH/!

1. Слоє 5670

lin Casa 5670-A

1 • AP/4 Filed

1'' AB/4 Chrono

A - RID/AN

wH/,

THET

50-0-123/3

TOMATCH ERAS ANS WHEET

HMMW -13,672 PRIORIT!

RES FILE MINIS

SECRET

50 - 6 - 122/2

DRIGINATING

OFFICE

TSD/AB/3

OFFICE"

vCO

COORDINATING

OFFICKTO MULT

WHLI

7. by Pboso 8-$507

3284

12502007

ORSE STEa

C/TSD/OA!

RELEASING

TOMERA TIGE MAS

---

## Page 23

INDEXI

CLASSIF.

Dres De

PR8, 90 BONNEN D

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

TOTAL COPIES

REPANDUCT GRipROMIBITED

0E9740Y

MEXICO CITY

ACTION

TSD6

BRID COPY

De TorioO....

EIG, VR, WH 7,

_FL, WH/C8

T50

TIME

733(k

SECRET 2916512

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 3960

AQUATIC PERUMEN LIONION

2923N01384

• PENUL SE CAMERA BEGAN CONTINUALLY ELOWING FUSES AFTERNOD 28 JUNE.

FRANCOTTE PERFORMED BASIC CHECKS THAT NIGHT AND

REMOVED CAMERA

FURTNER TROUPLE SHOOTING MECHARITY, TROUPLE PELIEVED TO DE CENGERED

AROUND DEFECTIVE SHUTTER MOTOR. MOTOR CHECKED MACHARITY AND FOUND

PARTIALLY BURNED OUT. REPAIRS CANNOT DE MADE MEXI, REDEST

HEF-ACEMENT

• CAMERA SOONEST • MALFUNCTIONING UNIT TO DE POUCHES HOSE JULY.

TERPORARY PHOTOGRAPHIC SURVEILLANCE ECHIPIEN INSTALLED LIONION BASE

MONSE MORNING 25 JUNE.

SECRET

TEN

---

## Page 24

MIE: DAIS

D No

CLASSIFY PO FILE NO.

I-MLE TO FILE NO.

RET. TO BRANCH O

resenor O sie.

CLASSIFISD MESSAGE

2455

SECRET

NOTIFIED

TOTAL

corits

21

REPRODUCTION PRONIRITED

Ning

MEXiCO. CITY

ACTION

1506

1953

& RID COPY

ADVANCE COPT

misuso Eroreo Druers

UNIT.

PIME

S

E CRET 1718152

DIR CITE MEXI 3829

AQUATIC PBRUNEN LIONION

iT JUN 65 IN 92775

RES TN

593899, 8 JUNE 1955.

PULSE CAMERA CABLES FORWARDED VIA FEF, RECD 16 JUNE. CAMERA

INSTALLED AND TESTED SAME NIGHT AND IS OPERATING SATISFACTORILY.

SECRET

CFN

---

## Page 25

DISPATCH I

•CLASSIFICATION

SECREI

PEUCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

10

XX

Chief, KURIOT

INFO.

Chief,

Wi Division

Chiet of Station, JAlWAVE

Chief of Station, sioxico Give

SUBJECT

AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/Issuance Of LIONION PassperLa

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

NO INDERING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

MICROFILA

DOG MICRO-SER:

NOV 9

1973

MICROFILMED

References:

(A) MEXI 323÷,

28 April 1965

(B) DIR 06231, 1 May 1965

• 1. Attached (USC) are the expired genuine PBRUMEN

passports of LIONION-! and LIONION-2 together with two photo-

grapha and five signature specimens of each agent.

2. It is requested that new PBRUMEN passports be

prepared by KURIOT and pouched to the Station as soon as

possible.

3. The assumption of reference B that passporta

obtained at the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City are actually

issued in the PBRUMEN Capitol Cily is correct.

4. The old passports should be returned to the Station

as the Mexican inimigration visas appearing of pages ll and 19 of

the LIONION- and LIONION-2 passports, respectively, must bo

in the possession of the Subjects until they are granted their final

immigration documents.

PrOjECE A DAFIHAN

56-6-123/2

from

Resove

Classifications

cs

JOH # 25-443/781

Box: 24 101d3

#TH

Fad:

continued

Attachment:

As stated - (USC)

fritt

TS0/18

Case Pis.

w0.=34

Distribution

* 2 - C/KURIOT w/att (USC)

L2 C VERTES

1 - C/WHD w/o/aut your/s

1 - COS, IMWAVE W/o/ate - Cuit /wed

3 - Files

DOC FORMARUED W/O S/G

BY FID/AN. 110104,65

•ES COPY

Escladed toa cutieati

50-É

- 122/2

OSS REFEREN

+ 50-137-415

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUAIBER

HMMA-26017

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

4 May 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-122/2

---

## Page 26

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CasucaTen

SECRET

#MMA-26017

5. Tho Station is investigating through LICRAFT -1 the

passport issuing service in the Miami area, as mentioned in reference

cablos, and will forward details in separaie cut espousseu.

Exan:ples of Miami-issued passports will be made available for

Headquartere perusal.

6. The Station wishes to express its appreciation lo

KURIOT for prompt action in response to reference d.

Willard C. CURTIS

FoRM S30

304

* $01

USE PARViOUS EDITION

CTASSITICATION

SECRET

pAGE NO

---

## Page 27

800м

9 19:137-41

50-615/2

„CLi" FICI MESSAGE

11880 f

91108800691

11/25 SECRET

NOTICIZO

C1SD/MB"

177

TOPAL COPIES

FEFAOONCTION

ACTION

150C

INTO

VET. COPY

Done Daisera

DOC NICHO, SEAL

MICROFILMED

Pitt in in a estuesd

CDIR WAVE CITE

ME. X I 5294,

PAQUATIC TYPIC* LIONION

дв. 299051051659

1. FBRUMEN ORDINARY PASSPORTS FOR LIONIONS I AND 2 HAVE

P. IS

EXPIRED, SUBJS CANNOT TRAVEL FROM MEXI BECAUSE NEXI GOVERNMENT

WILL NOT ISSUE REENTRY PERMIT IN EXPIRED PASSPORI, PSPRIME GOVE

WILL NOT ISSUE VISA IN ABSENCE MEXI REENTRY PERMIT. MEXI GOVT

C

CRIMI FISHIN

29 ас. 1:.9.41

Fris

RSTANDS PAI EXPLAINING, RIGHTLY, THAT PBRUMEN EMB WILL ISSUE NEW

MA WINnES

'PASSPORT IO ANY PBRUMEN CITIZEN REGARDLESS OF POLITICIAL

§LEARNINGS HENCE LIONIONS MUST GET NEW PASSPORIS.

* 2. FOR REASONS OPERATIONAL SECURITY LIONIONS CANNOT VISIT EMB

FOR NEW PASSPORIS SINCE

HEY KNOWN BY SIGHT TO ENS PERSONNEL AS

MEXICAN NEIGHBORS. THIS

SITUATION RESULTED IN COMPLICATED AND

EXPENSIVE CO ESCORTED "BLACK"

BORDER GÖRSSINGS BY LIONIONS LAST

YEAR WHEN THEY VISITED RELATIVES IN PBPRIME.

R '3. CAN HQS OR UNWAVE ISSUE NEW PBRUMEN PASSPORTS FOR BOTH

CAGENIS? PLS CABLE PROCEEDURE, MEXI FREPARED POUCH OLE PASSPORTS

pAND SPARE PHOTOS. LIONIONS WISH TRAVEL SOON.

4. FYI UNWAVE: LICRAFT-I RECENTLY PURCHASED TWO EXCELLENT 56-6-122/J4

NEW PBRUMEN PASSPORTS IN JMWAVE

ARSECRET

6 SONS, AT COST IS DOLLARS ES

TSD 48

+ 219-137-465

PRes 1389

Box: 24

RI

COPY

Fold:

RI COPY

1JS:

---

## Page 28

R:0/13

NEGRET

EACH. IF GAVE WEISS DOG THIS BUSINESS, BELIEVE STA CAN GET

THEM FROM LICRAFT. A

SECRET

HE PARASE

I DICATOR

EERFI

---

## Page 29

10

INTO

FROM

DISPATCN

Chief, KURIOT

Chlef, WH Dlylsion

Chief of Scatlon, Maico Cley

CLASSIICATION

SECRET

PRADRID TOR INDENING

Acen: Peter T. SWINEMART

xx

NO INDIRINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN DUCE INCELIN

MICROFILAA

SUBJECT

AQUATIC/Operational - Avallablllty of the Nikon Television System

ACTION REQUIRIO - RIPERENCES

1. At the time of Hugh t. FRANCOTTE's departure from Head-

quarters, KURIOT had recently begun an extensive evaluation of

the Nikon closed circult television system.

18 this particular

sys ten

"operational", FRANCOTTE wishes to be

so advised, as there may he a possible application for lt in

support of

an operation at the Mexico City Station.

Lawrence F.

BARKER was recently briefed by FRANCOTTE

on the Nikon system,

and is now Interested in obtalainy adúltional laces concerniny it.

BARKER,

who is responsible. for

possibillty for les

the LIONION Project, foresees a

use In the LIONION photographic basehouse..

It was thought that

perhaps the system could ber further

"operatlonally

at tils baschouse, and at the same time

Station could examine

the possiblity of a permanent) Instal

Presently, LICNION/1 Is utllizing a Dalscope and Penta

• PBRUMEN Embassy.

for obtaining photographle coverage of the entrance to the

Provided the television camera could be equipped

teleploto lens of about the same focal length as tho

combination of the Balscope and 20% eyeplece, this systet mighe

substicure for the equipment now In service.

It Is requested that the Mexico City Station be advised

if the NIkon television system Is available, and leadquarters

thoughts concerning the testing of lt at the LIONION basehouse.

killard C. CURTIS

Distributlon:

2

KUR IOT

∞ WH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUIS:A

HMMA - 25981

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

ES COPY FILED IN 50 - 6-132/E

29 April 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-12211

---

## Page 30

14-00000

CLASSISIED MESSAGE

L INDEX

• NO INDEX

& FILE IN ES FILE NO,

!?:

ROUTING

11:85

EXI

CATE :

15 Seit sid

TO I "EXICO CITY

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONFE

INFO:

list

10

Brestos

1

C7, 6i/ON5, FI, Vi

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR 52651

¿QUATIC LIONION

BEF ASTI 098% (IN 79741)*

I. PULSE CAMERAS BEING MODIFIED AND RECONDITICIA BY CONTIACTOR

TV COLLECT FAULTS SURFACED DURING LIONION OP. HITTIN

AVAILIDILITY FIRST CAMERA TUREE WEEKS PROVIDING NO UNFORESEENY

DIXFICULTIES CCCUR.

IT PRESINT CAMERA INCPERABLE SUGGEST RETUR TO BOEOT AND

VLS-2 OR S-100 WITH BURST BRACKET AND VLS-2 FOR INTERIM OPERATIONAL

COTSSAGE.

3. A SECOND CAMERA WILL BE SENT MEXI AS SCON AS RECONDITIOHING

COPLETED FOR USE STANDBY.

- END OF AESSAGE

ISD/COUMENT:

*LIONION pulse camera malfunctioning.

Request liq forward replacenent.

20

Til/lexico

kiss Bustos by phone 41073

Tin draft

COOADINATING OFFICERS

CROUP!

feelsang treas autoraglit

doragisding and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE IS FROMIBITED.

C/TSD/OA

AUTHEMTLCATING

Copy No.

---

