# 104-10161-10383

## Page 1

104-10161-10383

E

S'ECRET

TELEP OUCH

CFAX-14

DISP NO

-

FILF NO

DATE

201-749551

-

13 JANUARY 197%

INDEXING

NO

MICROFILM - NO

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

- CHIEF, WESTERN HENISPHERE DIVISION

- CHIEF OF STATION, WH/ULATI

ORECUEST FOR ASSISTANCE ON

CITIZENSHIP

• FOR AMNUG/ 1

ACIIO:!

-PARA 68 BELO!!

REFERENCE - NONE

1. AMMUG I HAS A STRONG INTEREST AND

NEED TO

_. BECOME A MATURALIZED

AMERICAN CITIZEN. HE HAS MADE

APPLICATION TO

I WHICH IF ACCEPTED,

WILL REQUIRE HIM IO TRAVEL TOC

HE HAS

BEEN ASSURED THAT RUROCK WILL ATTEMPT ASSIST HIM IN

OBTAINING HIS PAPERS.

2. AMMUGI HAS NOI FILED AN APPLICATION FOR

NATURALIZATION LOCALLY BECAUSE HE IS AWARE THAT

HE WILL BE REQUIRED TO ANSVER SPECIFIC QUESTIONS

• ABOUT HIS ENTRY INTO THE COUNTRY, ADDRESSES IN THE

STAIES, EMPLOYM

REFERENCES, POLITICAL BACKGROUND,

AND OTHER QUESTIONS IN DELICATE OPERATIONAL AREAS.

HE REALIZES THAT HE CANNOT ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS

WITHOUT RUROCK TUTORING. WH/WIAMI HAS BROACHED

---

## Page 2

DAIE: -13

INDEXING

- NO

MICROFILM -

NO

JANUARY. 1970

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

- CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

- CHIEF OF SIATION, WH/MIAMI

RECUEST FOR ASSISTANCE ON CITIZENSHIP

FOR AMMUG/ 1

ACTIO!

PARA S, BELO!

REFERENCE - NONE

1O AMMUGI HAS A STRONG INTEREST AND NEED TO

... BECOME A NATURALIZED AMERICAN CITIZEN. HE HAS MADE

APPLICATION TO

• WHICH IF ACCEPTED,

WILL REQUIRE HIM TO TRAVEL TO

HE HAS

BEEN ASSURED THAT RUROCK WILL ATTEMPT ASSIST HIM IN

OBTAINING HIS PAPERS.

2. AMMUG 1 HAS NOT FILED AN APPLICATION FOR

NATURALIZATIO! LOCALLY BECAUSE HE IS AWARE THAT

HE WILL BE REQUIRED TO ANSWER SPECIFIC QUESTIONS

• ABOUT HIS ENTRY INTO THE COUNTRY, ADDRESSES IN THE

STATES, EMPLOYNT REFERENCES, POLITICAL BACKGROUND,

AND CINER QUESTIONS IN DELICATE OPERATIONAL AREAS.

HE REALIZES THAT HE CANNOT ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS

WITHOUT RUROCK TUTORING. WA/MIAMI HAS BROACHED

THIS SUBJECT, IN A GENERAL WAY, WITH LOCAL INMIGRATION

AND WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED THAT TO RESOLVE THE

PROBLEr, WE WOULD HAVE TO HANDLE ON THE

MASHINGTON LEVEL.

3. A REVIE!! OF AMMUG L'S HISTORY WILL

SECRETE

_ PAGE ONE

ziRU

line; red-se

1=119-IL11

63 0031

failed ten an alle

Capell a1

---

## Page 3

SECRETE FINE! PAGE TWO

SHOW THAT HE WAS BROUGHT INTO SIATES BLACK

"FROi, CANADA IN APRIL 1964. HE WAS DEBRIEFED

FOR SEVERAL MONTHS BY HOS AND THEN SETTLED

IN MIAMI. HE D'AS NOT PUT ON A COVER PAYROLL

UNTIL 195S AND THEN IERMINATED ABOUT YEAR

LATER, AI WHICH TINE HE BEGAN OVERT JOB.

THUS, WOULD FACE

EMBARRASSING PROBLEM

OF AÏSHERING. DETAILED INMIGRATION QUESTIONS

M EMRY AND EMPLOYHENT BACKGROUND, NOT

TO MENTION PREVIOUS AMSTAFF EMPLOYMENT

'PRIOR TO DEFECTIO!!.

4. AMMUG/I HAS BEEN ASSURED THAI SHOULD

HE HAVE THE OCCASION TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE

SIATES IN THE NEAR FUTURE, WH/MIAMI IS IN

A POSITION TO FACILITATE THE ISSUANCE OF

A REENTRY PERMIT IN A SHORI TIME. OUR

LIAISON CONTACI IN LOCAL IMMIGRATION HAS

ASSURED US ON THIS POINT•

IPÄN PLS NOTE THAT HENRY S. PACHANKIS

IS IN PERIODIC CONTACT WITH AMMUG/ 1 AND

IS

CURRENTLY DEBRIEFING HIM ON THE CUIS NAMES

PROVIDED BY AMBEDEW/1. A DISPAICH ON THESE

DEBRIEFINGS IS UNDER PREPARATION.

6. IN THE MEANTIME, WE REQUEST THAT

HEADQUARTERS INITIATE ACTION WITH IMMIGRATION

---

## Page 4

14-00000

"IN MIAMI. HE WAS NOT PUT OM A COVER PAYROLL

UNTIL 19SS AND THEM TERMINATED ABOUT YEAR

LATER, AT !HICH TIDE HE BEGAN OVERT JOB.

THUS, WOULD FACE EMBARRASSING PROBLEM

OF ANSWERING. DETAILED INMIGRATION QUESTIONS

ON ENTRY AND EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND, NOI

TO MENTION PREVIOUS AMSTAFF EMPLOYMENT

PRIOR TO DEFECTIO!•

4. AMMUG/1 HAS BEEN ASSURED THAT SHOULD

HE HAVE THE OCCASION TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE

STATES IN THE NEAR FUTURE, UH/MIAMI IS IN

A POSITION TO FACILITATE THE ISSUANCE OF

A REENTRY PERMIT IN A SHORI TIME. OUR

LIAISON CONTACI IN LOCAL IMMIGRATION HAS

ASSURED US ON THIS POINI•

PLS NOTE THAT HENRY S. PACHANKIS

IS IN PERIODIC CONTACT WITH AMMUG/I AND IS

CURRENTLY DEBRIEFING HIM ON THE CUIS NAMES

PROVIDED BY AMBEDEW/ 1. A DISPATCH ON THESE

DEBRIEFINGS IS UNDER PREPARATION.

6. IN THE MEANTIME, WE REQUEST THAT

HEADQUARTERS INITIATE ACTION WITH IMMIGRATION

FOUARD GRANTING AMMUG/I HIS NAIURALIZATION

PAPERS. PLS FORWARD ANY QUESTIONS IHAT AMMUS/ 1

CAN PROVIDE TO ACCOMPLISH THIS. IF IT WOULD

PROVE TO BE MORE EXPEDITIOUS, WH/MIAMI HAS

NO OBUECTIONS TO SPONSORTNG A TRIP 1O

CAFAX-

SECRET COU 2O1 PAGE TWO

Orig reis au

1A. FAD-!2P1

---

## Page 5

UFAX-1Y

SECRET UE O PAGE THREE

WASHINGION BY AMMUG/I TO HELP RESOLVE

W: AMY OUTSIANDING QUESTIONS OR PROBLENS

ENCOUNTERED ON THE ABOVE. ALSO, A PROMPT

REPLY TO ANY ACTION HEADQUARTERS CAN TAKE

ON AMMUG/I'S CASE IS REQUESIED. THE AGENT

IS MOST ANXIOUS TO LEARN OF ANY PROGRESS

THAT IS MADE TOWARD HIS CITIZENSHIP.

D03

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

"3 - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

UFAX-IY

SECREICIELTSI PAGE THREE

BT

-

N

N

!. }

---

## Page 6

• ENCOUNLEREU UN CAL ABUVE. ALSU, A PRUNTI

• REPLY TO ANY ACTION HEADQUARTERS CAN TAKE

"ON ANMUG/I'S CASE IS REQUESTED. THE AGENT

IS MOST ANXIOUS TO LEAR OF ANY PROGRESS

THAT IS MADE TOWARD HIS CITIZENSHIP.

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

•3 - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

UFAX-IY

SECRETE SI PAGE THREE

BT

N

Gug red an

17.81

---

