# 104-10534-10106

## Page 1

104-10534-10106

SECRET

stel, sa/CI

lon Intomatson Coneerning OVI

st for 12m s

oport e 39

1953.

(t911 1959)

asing the "

Ten en reluted to 1te contrut our foretgu

i tin restation vl be Biten the period

1: IF - 3 1390

DD/P/ESD/DB/2:D.

SEGRET-

63099 4

Excluded from zutomate

doingrading and

declassification

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

T5D CORRURES ON OVIE (VIRA AND RRDOSERATTON ENCTION) OF THE USSA

tom reload to se get a mered below its allisonal incar

SHatteg A. that 16 OVIll

or 1só OVId's primy function ia tha

Bose serve en entire oblast or rubiis ruther thes

just a city.

ten - A frey in the task, even of Bag

Einse the fell al 1999 end untl septaber 1952

Metered by t

Mon • Mont touriat have bei

hotel are dry gent their first a got 12

the unet.

In many cases the firut hotel regiatration 18 a22

hut 1a puRoed In the tourtatis passport sagaralets of tim

161

my of the taipur, Do 8 for cares subracent botal regis

ens have been eidol. There 1a as tron reasos fer the

29000

buret, An "'atourlet" reprementativa, a

or of the hotel alinitratton or possibly an OVIR repre-

o chiner

Attadmeat Dos IB Hemp 50, 6691

In -1

sergei

de..

declasaltca.icm

---

## Page 3

13-00000

ARMS

mlitts as esty and eblast lovelo mal vasch expentes OVIE

rumstions in those areas not having an ovil, sate salstration

Attachment to: 13 Mino Mo, 6631

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

The mutter

tent mente

Cantee was matul

explined et the first mier elty vested ly the treeter,

Jesten Co there are the OVIe located 1n Montou?

Moves - 9aa Locations of ta OTTa In losers 1e unicorna.

atta Do In 80 0721 Located et esther of 8 Pellets

2. 1

aspectary permles t

Attachment tos IB Meno Dia, 6633

Fogh my

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Apper - Ilo information.

ClaYaye UpreTSenAge 1I118311, IVD ESER - Ul. Opareve, 6

upravlenire Mlitals, HID REPER - UI. OgATeva, 6

Speerlentro Toutronith Del Impolion Morobisovate - ul, Belinasago, 3

Pasportagy Ordel UVf Irpolion Moschlorets - Durasovelly Do, 11

Pasportugy Oldel UVD Inpalkous Hongoreovets - lendagradetsy Proerp., 16

F80 UVD Mooblepolkons - 2-8ya Mashchemiaya, 91

PHO UVD Hangorsepalton - Leniagradelonge Sle, 22

tol lathias (lout end Found Dupe?) UVD Mongorlopollena - Retrovka, 3

for infortion conserning lost documente

Sation I. IB there MN OVIR In Minekt

ed In Mink In 1955.

at 1 1955e Telling a hat tV Ra 309.

Momeow man that he mint lnave the country by manteht of the

Intending date or on the date indicated?

Attochment tO: LB Hono Mo, 6632

---

## Page 6

13-00000

corintion leuvine the Oil It la Tin/13te bullet that

« traveler on be

aftered to seave by rallelt of then doy

let abel my be me day later).

"gabll - Da ta VINERA"

Amp - 250/01 canot deteruta the olenterene of this note.

Attachment tos

100 38ne 10, 6691

---

