# 104-10021-10031

## Page 1

110410021-10031

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in

Sect. 2.

and forward 2o block. Detach

ick flap

2. Destroy front cover sheet,

unless it records

signiticant action

taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH. •

If file no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RIDI AN

RID/AN s 8

TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

D.A

OFFICER'S

FORWARDED

INITIALS

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

Dooument Number

490-197

WAY 1976

SASESe

-28

2.

Jan)

64

for FOlA Review on

Copy detached

C

SAg|N10B/7p80 .

64

10т

MICROFILMED

JULY 1904

DOC. MICRO. SER

30/т0/17 k

C/SAS/CI

SAS PINTEL

I8AS/REPT

C/WH/ 3

8.

RID/AN

RImIs

7 FEB

10 FEB 1964

U/S/C- attachio

30m64

231060

to 8 Pes. 2R

to

201-311774

Umis- undef oaly

Inch pg!

12.

13.

POTE

70

14.

15.

16.

RECLASSIFIBD

RIMI

RI/271

CIRA

17.

FILE TITLE

RID/FI

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODET

TRACE

REQUEST ..

id!?

DATE MIGROFILMED

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DOCUMENT O200

201289248

DOCUMENT NUMBER

196р

UFGA 13576

6100

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

(40)

€

---

## Page 2

13-0000Q

NID/ Mis

He 15 1 Ju PH GE

JAN 27 8 56 PM °64

JuN ZZ

2 54 PM 84

- Co

Or HONY B9:6 01

#V.

: 18:2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

C/SAS

DISPATCH

•CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

PRO

POSED

TO

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

X

INFO.

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE DIDELUIG

ABSTRACT

MICROFILAN

ACCOM-

PLISHED

FROM

Chief-of Station, JWAVE

MICROFILMED

JULY 1904

SUBECT Operational/TYPIC/AMOT/GPFLOOR

Comments Concerning Presiden

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Cuba's Position in the Conmunist world

Essination and

ACTION REQUIRED: None; FYI

Forwarded under separate cover is

a COpy Of AMOT Report 40-837

concerning comments on President Kennedy's assassination and Cuba's

position in relation to the Communist World. The opinions covered in

this report were the

subject of a

letter receivea by AllOI-152 from a

friend residing in Cuba,

is the brother-In-

law of AMFAUNA-28°

CIT-Cuba

esc-lawyer

A Cuba, Havana

Friend

ot

Tand brother-in-law.

END

OF DISPATCH

of

INDEX

H

Document Number

490-197

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1376

DOC FORWARDED W/O 5.57

BY RID/AN

1.27, 64

attachment:

Comments

on President Kennedy's Assassination (EE-337)

Distribution:

3-SAS w/att ESC

atticel

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

NO FIELD DISTRIBUTION

GROUP 1

Excluded trem automatic

downgradiag and

declassification

1 CROSS REFERENCE TO

lEnch. H/w':

CLASSIFICATION

RE I

"Headed

PHS

ERN

DATE TYPED

16 Jan 196

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

TAN24 964

UFGA- 13575

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201.289248

195314-152

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Soo Sanitized File

Number

505

For sterile copy of this document.

Donou unarpet

WA tale

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

Prather in law of

Report # EE- 837.

20 Dec 63

COUNTRIES INVOLVED: U.S./Cuba/Communist Bloc.

SUBJECTs Comments concerning President KENNEDY'& assassination and

Cuba'& position in relation to the Communist world.

DATE OF INFORMATION: year 1963.

MICROFILMED

DATE AND PLACE ACQUIRED: U.S. (19 Dec 63) •

JULY

1964

AGENT MAKING REPORTE

• AMOT-28

DOC. MICRO. SER

AM0T13L

SOURCE. On 15 Dec 63, Agent T

: received a

letter written normally

from his friend

from Havana®

resides at

Marianao municipal tent. 1ItYa0l3174

of Havana.

staur:

1s the brother-in-law

do not a communist..

Agent no 74,59P

reporte that"

Subject letter was dated in Havana on 2 Ded 63, and was

; received in Miant by air mail on 15 Dec 63.

INFORMANT: Personal appreciations by

taking Into

consideration that in view of nis degree or educations

the position which he used to hold, and of the fact that

1s still in Cuba he can form a "more or less" exact opintor

about the Cuban political situation.

"I imagine that you must have followed very closely all the

happenings which have been taking place since KENEDY's death."

saturday the 23rd of November-the day after the assass nation t

Trastor (Fide. CISTRO, hurrledy appeared on television to makox"

angry protest that they wanted to involve him in the assassinatto

"He defended himself like a wild beast and immediately la

an accusation against what he calle the 'reactionary elementa' ove

there. He said that all this was another 'scheme' of Imperialien

and that he was uncovering the maneuver.

"The next day-Sunday the 24th-he again spoke in Artemisa.

Pinar del Rio province, and on 27 nov he again spoke on the stalre

Havana University for the same objective. In all these appearance

the subject was always the same.... KENNEDY had been killed by reactionary

elements and now they wanted to blame him. And with the following

cheracteristics every time he dragged the soviet union in with die

that is, he claimed the scheme was directed against him and the Russians.

this is the most significant tact of all this and the sinister

201-289245

case as I will explain to you.

Easluded tom antomatie

dawoprading and

declassitication

SECRET

24 Jan. 196

SKiA #UFGA-, 3576 CS COPY

2005-41

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

Raport # EB-837, 1

20 DeC 63 (cont.)

"On the 22nd of October 1962, during the crisis, KHRUSHICHEV

capitulated and promised KENNEDY first to withdraw the missiles,

then the bombers, and last the troops.. Then CASTRO screamed 11ke

mad, rushed to the TV cameras, rebelled like a beast, and said that

'no one could inspect him'... 'the discrepancies between Cuba and the

UsSR would be diacussed between eguals,' and other similar things.

First sign of rebellion against the master who has sold him down the

river and who begins to abandon him.

"Later on MIKOYAN comes to Cuba and stays here for over a month

without being able to get absolutely anything from CASTRO, he even had

to withstand the humiliation of having to wait for hours to be received

by CASTRO. Second provocation.

"Between July and August 1963 the traitor (CASTRO) 1e taken to

the UsER almost by force on a mysterious trip from which he returna

without revealing absolutely anything. later on the nuclear test ban

treaty 1s signed. CASTRO immedlately refuses to sign 1t, olaiming that

while 'Yankee Imperialian' does not stop 1te aggressions against Cuba

he will not sign. In addition, he alao refused to support in the united

Nations the resolution concerning the creation of a denuclearized sone

in Latin America.

"What Iles behind all these happenings? Very simple. CASTRO has

known since the 22nd of October 1962 that the USSR is going to abandon

him, gradually but definitely. At this noment the USSR 18 nost of all

Interested in an approach to the United States in view of ite ideological

break with Red China and of the serious economic crisis which it has

been facing for some years.

"That was the main reason why KENNEDY did not invade Cuba then.

and that was his wisest decision. At that time: the break with China

was imminent and under no circumstances could happenings be provoked

which might tend to again unite the USSR and China.

"It was necessary to 'freeze' Cuba for some time. The break took

place on 14 Jun 63 through the famous letter with the 25 points of the

Chinese Communist Party to the Soviet Communist Party which document

I have in my possession. Therefore, with that maneuver KENNEDY did not

humiliate the USSR and saved KHRUSHCHEV's face.

-2-

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SBCRET

pawn.

Report # IE-837.

20 Dec 63 (cont.)

"pany did not understand this, and that bellliant man was strongly

criticized and accused

of being woak. One must remember that above

Cuba, unich 1s only a peon) in the international chess board, much

higher interests had to be safeguarded. It was necessary to destroy

the myth of the 'monolythic unity' of the Communist world, which the

Communiats have tired of proclaiming, and in the end it was necessary

to show that they are also filled with great contradictions and tò

direct the global strategy against the leading enemy which is

International Communisn®

"pell. CASTRO knew this well and he was beginning to get scared

because he understood perfectly that when the UssR withdrew its last

soldier the count down would begin for him (CASTIO.

"Who were terribly harmed by the frlendship and peaceful coexistence

of the USSR and the U.s., by the lessening of world tension as result of

all this?

.. China and CASTRO. Who had a life or death Interest, at

that time, in a return to a cold war as result of a sudden separation

or coldness between both giante? ...China and CASTRO. Who were urgently

Interested in provoking a transcendental event which night result in

the break of those ties? ...China and CASTRO. The event took places

KENNEDY was assassinated. However, the United States were aware of the

sinister plot and did not fall in the trap.

"The same night of KENNEDY's death the State Department published

a note saying that 'no foreign power had been involved in the assassina-

tlon.' The USER was immediately pulled out of the affali..

The suspicion

which began to arise was stifled.

"Later on MIKOYAN and JOHNSON had an interview, and when MIROYAN

came out he declared that 'relations between both countries semalned

unchanged. However, in all his appearances CASTRO continued to

insist that 'plans had been directed against Cuba, the USSR, and peace.'

By all moans he wants to pull the USSR down with him. Note the Insistence

"Did reactionary elements plan KENNEDY's assassination? I only

ask myself this questions Is there anyone so stupid in the U.s. or in

the world who thinks that there le going to be a sudden change in the

situation because the President of the united

States Is assassinated?

Absurd. In the United States everything Goes not revolve around a

figure like in totalitarian states, in the United States what governe

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET.

Report # BE-837,

20 Dec 63 (cont.)

is a team of men, a political party-the Democratic Party. Those

men are closely connected with each other, and if one falle he is

Immediately replaced by another one and the chariot continues moving

perfectly.

"The case of th

do not act Like It

on 201-2029 maht be a lunatic but lunatica

acted.

They attack suddenly without caring

about the immediate consequences. Therefore, one must immediately

discard the theory that it was a fanatic. Everything seems to indicate

that KENNEDY' & assassination was a political assasaination..a poistical

aurassination.

(according to I

"KENNEDY's assassin was nothing but an instrument in the hande

of a sinister organization which sought higher objectives.. The objective

could not be other than to produce a break in the good relations between

the United States and the USSR by those who might benefit politically

from this happening. CHINA and CUBA are the keys to the enfgma. All

this will become known very soon, sooner than we imagine.

There 1e also the inoident of the Mexican employee of te Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City, and the angry renotion of Cuba through ite

Ambassador non when they learned that she had been arrested. The

diplomatio note was written in an angry and rude tone. Mericane are

called the 'accomplices of KENNEDY's reactionary assassins" and it

Interferes in the internal affairs of Maxico. Then, there was Bome

truth in the connection between this and that. they could no longer

deny that OSWALD had requested

a cuban visa, but they claim that they

refused to give him one. Ia this true?

"In my opinion, the assasain planned to escape and to seek refuge

here (Cuba), maybe even under a fictitlous name. Everything 1s possible

with these people. The diplomtic note also tries to involve the Ussr.

'and we are back at the same thing. At a given moment, such a transcendenti

happening as KENNEDY's death could suddenly provoke a collective histeria

In the United States and maybe even provoke a confrontation with the UssR..

Therefore, it was a diabolfoal scheme leading to achieve an effective

heppening which might benefit someone politically, and that someone could

be Mao and Fidel.

"The objective might have been rapidly attained. Violent break.

almost a state of war between the U.S. and the USSR, and, naturally.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

Report # EE 337, 1

20 Dec 63 (cont.)

the immediate beginning of an almost hot "cold war' with the subsequent

support of all of KHrUsHCHeV's missiles to the tottering Cuban regime.

Of course, this would be a brilliant and possible play in the case of

an extremely dangerous paranoic.

"The Veneguelan Case!

"What a coincidence? Two days after KENNEDY' a funeral a

transcendental announcement is mades Venezuela officially accuses

Cuba of landing a huge cargo of arms in that country. All the teams

get mobilized and the immediate order is given to have a meeting of

the Security Council of the O.A.f. All this happens with the speed

of lightning. The cache of arms was discovered on the 2nd of November

1963, but the

transcendental step was not given until now.... In my

opinion, that was the Plan which KENNEDY was holding in reserve. But

KENNEDY had more time to carry it out, and JOHNSON does not have so

much time, and besides. it fo necessary to act while things are hot

and that is why it was advanced. Now I do think that the crucial

moment has come! The mouse fell in the mousetrap with cheese and

everything: It will be very difficult for CASTRO to get out of this

ambush.

"Besides, many doubts and prejudices which we had been dragging

for a long time now begin to get clarified. That was the Plan! Get

CASTRO to accomplish something of such magnitude that It would affect

all Latin American countries, so that all would have to adopt collective

measures. The Plan was COLLECTIVE ACTION. That is why the Americans

were opposed to actions by cuban exiles. That is why they persecuted

them. That ia why KENNEDY rejected the idea of an invasion by the U.s.

It was necessary to wait for the opportunity, and they waited for it.

Everything will take place in the eyes of the world with the evidence

on hand, according to laws that in the objective of Article 8 of the

1947 Río de Janeiro Mutual Assistance Treaty. America has in its hands

the legal inatrument to do justice against Communism. It is a case of

flagrant intervention in a country which is a signer of the Treaty by

one which does not respect any Law and which has placed itself outside

the law.

"If CASTRO has been shouting since the 2nd of December of 1961

that he 'is a Marxist-leninist,' the fact is that he does not know

absolutely anything about that. This gentleman has never been more

SECRET

: 201.289248

---

## Page 10

13-00000

BBCRET

Report # EB-837,

20 Dec 63 (cont.)

than a university hoodlum, a bourgeois with free registration in

Havana University. That is why those who were hunting him let him

loose. It was necessary to wait patiently for him to make a mistake.

and in the end he did make it. Fighting in Venezuela is a completely

erroneous fight from all viewpoints, but in order to show that we are

not-like they may we are resentful bourgeois we are going to prove

it from the Marrist-Leninist viewpoint.

"The chInist have sald the following about thiss 'we uphold that

in the fight against Imperialism, strategically, considering the whole,

It is necessary to have contempt for the enemy, to dare fight against

him and to conquer victory. And at the same time, tactically, in each

concrete struggle, It is necessary to take the enemy seriously into

account and to adopt a conscientious and prudent attitude. Tactically,

if the enemy is not taken serioualy into account, and one acts in a

rash manner, and if at the same time one does not dare to have contempt

for the enemy strategically, one will inevitably commit the mistake

of Adventurousness in Tactics and of Capitulationiem in strategy.'

And comrade NAO also has to say the following about Tactics in his

select works, 'If we do not not with prudence in each particular case,

In each concrete problem, we do not take care in studying and in

perfecting our art of fighting and we do not pay attention to winning

all the allies which must be won (small farmers, small artisans and

Independent merchants, middle bourgeosie, students, teacher, professors

and intellectuals in general, simple public servants, professionals.

and sensible persons), we will make a mistake of leftist Opportuniam. '

"But Mr. Fidel CASTRO was a ragnificent Marxiat-Leninist and the

result les nothing more illogical than what is being done in Venezuela.

How is 1t possible for a Marxiat-leninisteven for a firat grade one

not to be aware that this type of tactical fight is only possible within

a Dictatorial System, a System of the TRUJILLO type, a STROESSNER type,

or a DUVALIER type?

"How Ia it posalble in Venezuela where BETANCOURT was elected

through clean elections, and who is now going to hold elections and

will turn the reigns of the Government over to another person or to

another Party? Only a cretin will think of it. Tactics are erroneous

and falls frankly into the woret kind of leftist Adventurousness. CASTRO

has dug his own grave.

-6-

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SHORIT

Report # DE-837, eums, 20 Dec 63 (cont.)

"Summarizing, all these happenings, aâdea up and acting at y.

the same time, will lead to the destruction of the Communist regime

which has been

imposed on us by force. Because, and I repeat, the

Revolution against BATISTA was exclusively political in nature and the

true Communists arrived late in the Sierra Maestra, because even if

•the monkey is dressed in silk it is still a monkey.

"Let us mix these ingredients. KENNEDY's assassination, the

Venezuelan affair, 'Patilla's' (Fidel's) adventurousness--and we will

get the best of all cocktails: CUBA LIBRE."

21 йd1:4!

ini

---

