# 104-10180-10037

## Page 1

104-10180-10037

10148) 3,240,748

10 March 196%

SUBJCT: JURS Repeated Reference to May 196à Invasion

34967-30668-C.Yä315

1o The following uny be of Interest to sAs

2. On or about 6 Mar 64,

sentatives of the (private) California Intelligence Bureau, los

Angeles, that tbey planned to invade Cuba by 20 May 6.

made no secret of their JURE-a8f1J1&t108

andi solicited a donation of $92.00 to equip one Lighter

Co he an a 1064, a Tenough 80216900 39210

I "to buy an M-Il

Ithat 11 Castro's departure meant control of Cuba by

JURE and RAY, he vasn't so sure he wanted Castro to go.

• end.

ROANCE THI

CIA LATERAL USE VALY

WEAT

---

## Page 2

Intortion of Manuel (Mannlo) Say

Chief, Coniset Divialon (Support)

2270

Case 42,315

3 March 6l

DO/03

SAB/Redetry

CO 2702

_SAS/ EDE

GO 1908

Por your into and retentlan.

---

## Page 3

14-00009

stiLl li 1? 290.547

SUBJSUT:

Interviewed on 24 feb till

of the recorded statenent as follows:

1.

2o februnry 1964

Interfer of lianel (Mariudo) MAY (O0/C Cave le315)

circumstances

proceedire via Volkawagen to the

RAY's chauffeur,

sipnificantly, was a Jure surrorter, Manolo GONZALed who,

I recall, was emotionally

condemnint the US in front of the

Les Angeles Civic Center at che

time of the abortive Buy of

Ples Invasion attempt.

2. "As you will note in the taped record, I was

brutally frank with kAy.

convince him that his deand did not differ narkedly fron

that of the Conounists.

licither kair, nor JUne, are prone

to attack Cactro frontally.

Their reogonoc to everytiin

1s a criticlon or un attack on rustlote.

kAY's devotion

to sociallom is pitifully

more biat he did not brook alch chovro.

It was Castro

who threw him outg

niter the former mude it clear in

February 1559 that his object wuu

If Castro hud not mudered Conillo Cienfuegos and

Mulerto datos, chunces ure mir would still be with him.

"is you will note, lay espouses public ownership

os elecuric pover facilities, trusportation, communications,

eus. lla defense la basca exclusively

on the allegation,

probebly true, that tie extension of electric power irito

rural areno 1s not economiculli feasible, hence neglected

ls private industry. No other reason 1u advanced for tie

nazlonalization of other inductries. At any rate, RAY

speaks for hiaself in the interview, and in the unhappy,

but unlikely event that Ril and Ju ever come to prominence

Enol:

• end

Deing sinile trackterves in opansape recording os

interview in Spanish

SEGET CALMEN I DECIL!

HE-LL 11

-==

---

## Page 4

Chios, Contace Divialon (Sarpart)

DO/03

SIS/Rendatry

CO 2702

Gº 1908

2270

Case 49,319

13 FKB 6d

trom

Ithoro lo a note that ha

has not yot fournd

II think this report in

Jand in her worde.

---

## Page 5

: *

(00699) 3. 2-91, 27>

To4 7 4734737

10 Fouruary 1961

jubject: Caze 42315 - Manolo Ray/JURE

1. I heard Manolo Ray's speech to the Cuban exiles In Los Angeles,

and also kas an opportunity to visit with him for a few minutes.

The

collowing 1s my evaluation of Ray.

feels that they will not bo able to contrioute financially if they are.

not employed, also. lie makes a bir. point, too, that they must rely

heavily on the people within Cuba, aduinr, that there are many there who

muct cooperate now in order to get work and food, but that in their

hearts they are not pro-fidel.

He wants them particularly to get the

meccage that he is not against they but needs their help.

3a Ray scens to favor a lovernmental system Like Fuerto Rico's.

He likes wrat he deseribed ao n

"cooperative ayutem," and praises the

idea of unvertment autonomous corporations.

At the same time, he says

he 10 in favor so caintaining private proverty and supporting education.

His aim, he says, 1s i1rot to get Cube out of the Sovlet arca, and then

Into the detocratic area, but adde that it would not be proper to trade

a leftist alcatorship for a rightlot.

¼, Of sone 400 or 500 people who heard Ray speak, most were some

what Indifferent, even critical at firot, but at the end scemed to

- end .

---

## Page 6

14-00000

is questing

alicies cents travelo

Rey

21 Die 63 tickle

oNce Come 42.315

16/0u63

adwised he

had good tup is Of and L. A.

Wantidas I ep quas appreciation

four keep

yardedame.

In L.A.,.

mentioned

That a contact I his

/Joes) Ba

had

indicated that butty MANOLo REY

had

wet him and intereiwed him

You the hu it m thin to

Thn tred

much intered is thes Ectuation: Howeves,

Tili matter, then is inted in

Tand get this report on

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET 177200

11 NOO LYOU

2270

wess

LANG

PROM SIPPORT

GROUP ONE FICLUDED PROM AUTONATIC DOWICRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

NEN CASE 42,315

38S7 H1. 62223

нА - 62293

SAS, WANTS TO XXX THANK ALL CONCEND FOR THEIR RELP AND

ASSISTANCE ON HIS RECENT TRIP TO LA.

20 R03|

CONTACT

IS INTENESTED IN

THE ACTIVITIES OF MANOLO RAT IN TET LA AREA, RESULTING FROM

REPORT Of

IN TERYLEW

WITH RAY. WE ARE OPENING THIS CASE TO COVER.

3. PLEASE SUBMIT ODA(S) REPORT TO SATISTY RIGUITMENT. THANKS.

E CR

E

R

---

