# 104-10433-10007

## Page 1

104-10433-10007

102 - 574

25 November 1963

I (six page

• attachment)

Disposition - This document, was denied. The document contained

information received from al

service which consequently

cannot be released. The information in the documents relate in general

to the activities of a Communist diplomatic installation during September

and October of 1963. The document also contained the names of staff

officers, the identity of Agency components, as well as Agency internal

filing instructions.

The denial was made under the authority of exemptions

(b) (1), (b) (2) and (b) (3)

---

## Page 2

13-00000.

2.52400.1963

201

Zral:

Att

Bhen

ionis

manemaeo in nie to tui ous pelaigos tinoe, 1415, iuuca

C Howber 155e

2. Comenlad so Soslarr A 1o a tmmertys of tha 38 Sertenber

L tha snoco

(ruraval na Jhetonoe 8 l0 a Semneript of thre pieera colls

tno m at saptanbon 156, cno sato dn 1 Cetohar 1913 mnll su mota ca

3 totota 1563% Votco empmans Seilertad Mos tha "Hurtl oaleaa"

shio muattoipaaid tn memat oo tence oomesatdeca ta poctanly $2o

peree so loerhiflod blnnolt es In t0n1s en 1 Ceseser 155-

(or sntatoro coosinalas toa mottry thène teatcriyea ia

kat Csta) wn to theli my hn ta 36 4 110 9 81

As Hodt tde enn 300 enl thes, snlliot to gos 16 ciety, to

triet to ort n aker samnto vien so bo mutd po to ciim sut mtt for

th ctang de ta oories vion cio ly do te peruia moocod

Ey tlirte Droe, the Mecteas satomi emiayon dl the Cibes Eibasey

vo talt nita cauta-

Doxment Numbar m

102-574

TROSEL FROERAN

IPJEDI

TAICTRRET

6308-3/773,22

Attechettn1

0 tnt

NOr FOlA Revior on

APR 1976

raprranten o u

IRESDRE AR AOA

EAZO COT

P/AD

3:20 RR

t:3.

DISS:

¿1 (10)

LPCSS

DE 20G

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTEO ONT 6 APR 1$76

EELNPDET CL BY O /2208

H/3M Hend: 12

RECORD COPY

5otro0en:

0s1 m Addressee

1 = (pul taldon

CH1/3

nien i ao

PILCA)

5X/ BsA

/sepato),

cx/ops/3a-

hugher

25 K

I0rO5E 01

(201-289248)

copy-fils

---

## Page 3

382E 77: 3227

ÁN MOCI INT LEI DITELLY ZAVE DOX LI IDO CATE DI COLLUVA I DE EDIUSTERRAL

TADA CONA

ANO NOIN TON CUS LORO SORTA NORE DIES MONT E ESCAOS

Levanzos

TES DaL OCA ASTERRENON EST LENT VRATE CONDUSSE CER OS SETTE

TA TE DISE CHI MYN MATE SI CASTO NON TANA OSSE

SMALTOUT ON LASSIAI NIENTANTI MAST SUA LETARIA INST

O0000-&L

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CAR 2)

SOVIET ARET A NOTES TIRE POD QUE FISE SAX PIAT CHE KAYE

SCATTA ACHERO TET NON AVE TOC DORE ANTERO BONE P

WHO DED TRANSCHXPTTONS BATS OBALD

13 IDI RETIAL UTI PRISON PARA GLI SERAICIO BRORE RUESTAT MIO CALLED

FROT CURAS INPARST 33 SPIACER TO SOVISE MASSY.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

COLA NAIL CRUD CADIS

CONTO OLESARVE TA

PORTS CONSTRATE OCTOR

06O 55 ME ASA

ESDRASA

450513185

COMES ON

MENOT RERASER DARTS ERICAN CHETAR

BA TAKE TRUNCHES MADE OR COPPED EINS SAGOSHERATES

СУ ЛОСТУ TO MOTION ITS PROCKTURES

DURAY TECH TIE CUBAN CONSULATZ AND EXPLAINS TUS SASTETHING

TELEPEONE AND NAME BO TREY DAY CALL, HIM LATER SILVIA, TEX

---

## Page 6

13-00000

(PAGE 2)

FURNISIS IT TO IN LONELS, AE TEERPHOSS 11 28 47 AND SAS

TAOS TUT OPPORTUNE RA TO GUT IS SOIL TING PERSONAL OF HER

THAT HAS CHANCKD HER DRESS AMD JAS LOT BEEN ARIE TO

МОТТРТЇТНКИ SO GEKY YCAN: SEND HER THE BULLETIN AND THAT HOW

SHE CAT QURAT TO THEN KAY INSIDE ASKS HER TO CALL

XOURXIARENKO TO GIVE HIM KER CHANGA, IN ADDRESS AND THE MAX

LEE'S TUNTHS NAME OF THE CUUNSELLOR, OF CULTURAT, ATTACHE.

SILYIA FATE TRAT EER NAMERI8 TERISA PROENZA AND SHE CAN EX

CALLED AN 14 13 266 MAN INSIDE SAXENKS

OH CY SEPTENBERG 63 A 1628 HRS OUT CATT. FROM BOY

CHE TOM 2847 RANTATION DOM SPANISER HAN INBIDE A8KB

SILTA THAT AMERICAN HAS BEEN THERE. SILVIA: BAYS YES,

THAT OUTE THREE MAN INSIDE BATE THAT ACCORDING TO TESSLEY

TESS HE SHOWED ETH ROM THE CONSULATE L VASHINGTON HS TANTE

TO GO TO THE USSE FOR A LONG TIME VITE HIS RUBSTAN UPE BUY

THE ANNER, BATI HAS NOT BEEN RECEIVED E ROMEN ASHINGTON ABOUT

HIS PROBLE BUT DEAT ACCORDING TO THE PROCEDURES TILE TAKES

BONR YOUROS TIVE MONTHS BUT THAT, VITHOUT THAT PERIT TROM

THE USER TEXT SHOULD ASK AND RATHER THEY CAVIOT GRANT THE

VISA THRAX WITHOUT ASKING WASHINCION BUT ACCORDING TO THIS

KAT ES SECHED HIM A LITER SHONING THAT EN IS A MEMBRA CE AN

ORAVITAXION ELZAVOR OY COBA AND BE FAS SAID TENE- CURLYS

CUYNOT GIVE HIM THE VISA TITEOUT THE RUSSIAN VISA AND NOW

---

## Page 7

13-00000

(PAGE 3)

TIE LAT THS TOX DOTE TOT DON THAT TO DO LATE HIY, BECAUSE

TUSY MUST TAN TON AN ANSVER YROM MASHINGTONE SILTIA SAXE

TRAT. TASY TOO HECATSE FIS PROBLEM TE THAT, HE KNOVS NOBODY

IN CUBA: AND THAT HATE THUS YET DURACUL FOR FINE TO OUTAN

TARA, BECAUSE HE TAB THINKING LE PROCESSING FOR VISA?

BECAVES SINCE HE LATINTHIS WOULD TAKE LONG AB, WAS GOLNG TO

WAIT IX CUB ZOR THE RUSSIAN VIAN AND ROM THERE GO TO THE

UNST. POLAN, INSIDE SATE THAT TERMERING IS THAT LY HIS ATE

IS NOT IN VASHINGTON BUT IS GOING TO GET RIGET NOT TER VIRA

OS THE PERLIT TROL THE USEA, TO RETURNATO EXS COUNTRY, SES IS

COING TO GET HER VISA IN NASHINGTON BUT HATING HIS VYA, BHR

COULO BE NOTIFIED AT ANT PLACE,

HERE PORN XAMPLE OR ANYWELRE

RUSE, BUT THE DONE HAVE TE RIGE NONE STEVIA SAYS OT

NAMAS

COURS AND THAT EBSIDEA THEY CANNOT CYR HIM A LITTER, BICATES

TUST DONT CHOU EUS VISA MILES GRUESO LAY DIS DO FATT

THAT TREY VILL ONLY GRANT THE VISA ACCORDING, TO NAS INSTRUCTIONS

Moses

SILYTA BATRE THAT TROTTEARS THAT SEE LEE POTLE OR CAREE

WAY TRIDE BATS THAT REBEDES ME TO YOT NOWAD EXCUSE ETHELS

FOR THE INCONYA INCES SILVIA SAYB ITUS ALL RIGHT AND THANKS

FIX.")

D. ON I OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 ERS TO SOY MIL ATT IN BROKEN

HESSIAN MEXLEO. TWAS 77 YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY 20 INE

TALKED TO YOUR CONSUL, THRY SLID THAT TINY D SEND A TELSCRAM

---

## Page 8

13-00000

(PAGE 4)

TO VASEINGTON AND VANTXD TO ASX YOU LETHERE, IS ANTTHING

RETRI SOVIET ENLID LIKE TO ASS TOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE

NUMBKE KAN OUTSIDE: PLEASE ME SOVLITER PLEASE RITE

IT DOWN 15 60. 55 AND ABX TOE A CONSUL. KAN OUTSIDE:

MEHANK TODAS BOVISTA

SNILEASE."

ENOV 3 OCTOBER 83 CALLINO SOY MIL ATTE, MAN OUYSIDE

SPRARS, TA BROKS, SPANISE THEN IN ENGLISE TO SOVIET SHELLO.

VISA TOS RUSSIAN SOVIETE CALL ON THE, OTEXE PRONE HENAN

OUTSIDEST

LY TAM LOCKING TOR A TISANTO CO TO HUSSIA! BOYIST

PLEASE CATT ON IS STEPRONE OF TEX CONSULT HAY OURSIDE:

WOE, THE CONSULE BOVIEZE ETHAT'S RIGHT 15, 60: 550 MAN

OTTETORIS IONS HOURKE FLEASE,! LIRAVE TO GET A PENCIL, TO

VUITE TER NURER, DOWN OTESY ISSUS THE VISA TERRETE BOTIKT!

THAT DEPENDS OR TOUT CONVERSATION LEDONIT OROT ABOUT THIS

SUE NOT PLANET CHAS TAS OTICE ONE CONSUL AND AET TOUR

QUESTION MAX OUTSIDES ABXS, THE JUMBER OFTHE TELSPEONE

MONA SOT UN ONES TEEN TO TA AND TELL POTO

ASE YOR THE CONSUL OF THE BOYIST EMBASSY IN XEXICO.

MAX

OUTSIDE: "THANKS. "

3ND OF - MESSAGE

---

