# 104-10171-10036

## Page 1

104-10171-10036

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

. (44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

DISPATCH

Chiet. Task force N

20con

May PrONTOSS RIgOrI - ANSPELL

ON RIQUERO PUTMACTA

Action: For your information

Rel : :A.

WAVE 3851

B.

WAVE

3911

C. NAVE

2066

sua i 1502

1. Before intelating a foraal maithly report of progress

ANSPELL, " brIel bistorical

Nunzarg of the priailyalloidl

tackground

18 décard appropriate.

Traditionally, the

main studerl

zatloD

in Cuba

1s the Federa:ion of Critirsary Studers (rederac

dantil crivernitaria - FEl) hasia

18s.40.8

1n tre Inive

Havara and controllini audent federatione raploradde,

151.5

univer-

sites dun chrough rich chools

•difie!

paruchial selisole.

The oll

knoar FEl has lallueneo

tre

Cuban political scene

prough ilndirect

Iniriale and direct terrorist

літаски

stico the

Tali ui epochal

dictator Gerardo SACIADO 1D 1933

presidents

hare risen fron or

throuch their acelvitles,

-i.e.

RIDOT GRAL SAN HARIIS.:

Carlos PRIO

Socarraa, not to sertion.

oiner offepriras duch as flIel CASTRO RuZ

ATTACHAFT :. L'SC

d1r8. A through X (CSC)

Distributlor:

3 - CITEN M/ELE. (L'SC)

RETURN TO CLA

Beckground Uno Cal

Os.7 TiTO

2s June 1962

LEGA - 45297

19-126-29/3

---

## Page 2

104-10171-10036

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-EST-E-T

156-152.

2.

•When CASTRO raMe

•acr

In January 1019. sPe TEl' as an

auton lanes ard reprrata

Thr

take-over 719 a

diate

ard

1 м

mianaly docuseated

In AD ANSPELI PAPIT SINIS

01

ten:

by cuts BOld Disinguez

A BY

ald-ve

mounting

resistance. to. Com

dont nation

-1 n

stu

errupted in siolence at cercoonies reid

МІХОТА:

The leader

anti-Cineuntat

outbrcar

•AS

11 de

1tY A)

and supported by fiden B

:C.

and. D) broke up the

¿creainy.

lat

flecing to PBPRIME an politic

108.

In Septenter

the

four siudent extles touried

AYSPELL is tre only geruine.

represen

rative Cuuan student organseation.

fundasentally ants-Consuniat,

having powerful religlous

roots: in

Catholic Action proups,

and

dedicated to the revolutionary uverthrow of the castRo commurlet

regioo.

The deirlopment and groath of AuSpell ras nurtured, gulded

and reasonably controlled by JundlE, Iron tave officials to over

five thousand nembora: of PERLUES, bas huen reflected 1l nor *gll

docusented in reporta

of their production.

From September 1960 to

the advert.of chr

April tarasion. AuSPElL efforts pere directed

primarilj in building up a clandestine organization (AMHINT-! to

ANHINT-30) 1n PBRLHEN and secondarily in producing antI-CASTRO

propaganda throughout the healsphore.

when their claadestine apparatus

vas. forced deeper addrinto inactivity by the post-invasion porse-

AkSPelL diyertid their major effort to axtrarion and prod-

cution' drulened to mold Latin deerican opinion particularily 1n

suppor

of shat would be ODYCKE positlon at the Foreign Ministers Conference

at Punta del Esto on 22 January 1962.

This prospied the creation

of the AMBARS project,: an irstrument

for placcoear of PBRINEY. atudents

In WH countries for JAYAVE or station controlled and supported

GYROS& operations.

As rackgroudd to ANSPELl activities in May, tho dorla

Progress Report 1s forwarded under sepurate cover as Attachsent B.

5. Duriag May 1963, AUSPELL progress 18 reported as polludo:

A. AUSPELL:

1)

General: AuSPall pollry drictlun girde carly 1962 18

etined succincily in the hoodling of trott orran

(Iuen E, separate corps atlarhoent C) as "Puaceful

coexietence.

WAR

lus" and aptly replain their

separation trou the dablo cuaplex interence e)

During

Xaj this resentsent of alleged AubLy antI-CASTRO lethargy

Tag extended to irclude JANAVE and ALRIFX quallited

support for

their

ANUINT operations.

Or. 20 May they

secretly, withou? lidle coordina do. or suppirt,

infiltrated ANälNT-:3 and

ASHINT-40

(Relurenco A and B)s

ANHIST internal structure

had overlapped with the uRR

and INSPELL secarity apprehensiong

had mantadto

the

point. of desperation

when

AXHINT-53 T9g assured inf61-

tration on three operatione all or under mere poutpored

due to MuAVE operational decisions. AXHINT-S3 TAB

nfiltrated to reorgarize dad disengage the AxMiNT grou

fros

the MRR:

Arcording

o early June reagages, this

assylon has been accumplished.

2)

focal Suppor!:

AYSPELL

$

ANBIRB .

$

AMHINT

$

12,100.00

24,109

8.080.88

TOTAL

1 43,319.89

PAME MO

---

## Page 3

104-10171-10036

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GrAB

SEC R-FI

UFCA - 1529

3).

Intelligeace Productton: During May 1962g

at Trast 20 intelligence. copen

- wire dorived tron production

-a quantate and toxo

production is not practical due to she salacion o

materials submitted, but an an example,

Just one dot allod

and voluminous atudy fros INRA vas given f1g0 qualitativo

ovaluation.

1)

Developmentland Plang: AMSPELL 1E to be given closer

and case ulTicer atreation from Jawave.

whereus in the pant, uno case officer devoted paratino

to this orranization, thero will now be a case officer

oach for ASPELL, AMBARD: 200 AMRINT AMSPELL MUSC

by tradition, play a viral

role in PBRUNEN developmente,

especially in terms of stature and stability of any.

future post-CASTRD FBRUXEN fovernient.

It follors

components along pro-PUPRIME lines.

B. ANKINT:

1)

Genoral; Tho entiro MisPElL progress report has

hoTd up pending the extiltration of PuHINT-53.:

R10

debriefing would have

provided detailod and updated

AMHINT organizationad

operational data.

the

absence of this

Information

thICO Of AIHIYT-53'8

courtered lotters are

the

only

point of reference

(Two of these,

dated

5 April

19ir vere handcarried to

luadquarters by TARDOCK).

Briefly.

tho ANiliNTS have

suffered fron thelr operational overlap

with the MRR

which, In turn, was penetrated..

This camoafter 108108

threo

National

Coordina

urg

in succension:

The internal

situation becare critical

enougb

that

by 20 May,

ANSPELL

too% mattors in thoir

• wn

hands:

nriltrated AuHINT-53

an described in Referonco A.

Mea

1n

WAVE arON;

Red ls operator,

AMHINT-12, completed

tralning by

31 May and twu future operators.

NTS -31

and

.49

completed their AHHiNT

Inforasl

cod!

apta

practice

and beKan THWAVE processing for JUHAVE COnsunI

t long:

trafring.: DoApite AuSPEll Impallenco, other anh

NT""

asscte vere ulider devolopment during bay.

Their roase?

JANIN I and crew vas officially accepied for JuVAVE

support agreement and personio? trainion.

8) Financlal Support:

PIRUSES Operatlong

$ 8,250.00

PARLAWN/ PRPRIMS

Travel-procosa1ng $51,790.58

$ 8.010.88

operationg funds cited above representa

$25.000 PBRUMEN pesos tent In Di Diplomatic Pouch on

21 May 1962. Travel anil

processlng.fundg.are..for.the

sort part taxen up lu money urdels for alf spaco.

3 Intelligence

Productiun (Includes! In para SA, 3.1

4) Development and Play:

THAT STATITE TITTA fOr

or the keest 00 5 2415,

Infiltration of Radio Operator AXfISl'-51 with a saall.

shipment of arms, procesaing and lus. sing of Radio

Operators AMHINTS-31. and 19, and de Helectiou and

assessuent of the CEDAR tear of lour le de sent to

for trainlog and subresident Infiltra: los.

---

## Page 4

104-10171-10036

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

N42 17 3 21620

Baring

for

3X TURNOU

1h1s-1s

trum nobul

AProV

Pions

A PINESE

reunusual delars

the intered.

Frokhda:

Thr CruAy toas chourd

ang andro.

o totiltrate:

and

itte

ite end or 01s

mahaguent

B.

AYEARB:

1)

During

the boit::

hy ile

01 MAY 1962, AUMANN actIvitIes

African tour toas

selection nad bracting

sto

Students Cintrre

Inureparation for the Internationa

(DIN 04029,

to be told in Quebee n

*27

June.

to:

HI:

• prou

in addition

TARDUCK

viNit by

АнНинЬ Гиплї

dOns

Cu:

resulted

prod

Kuidaace

tch:

3311

RIN

oper

oil.

I MI

hy UPGA-

shet

all

Throukhout

inci

RUlur:

niellikence

programa

12

countrsey,

üranalized

the. AMBARBS

1r. May

A and

NutHequent

AMKINT®

U'T

10.

UPCA -1811

stary

ade

continues

du

the

apact

(sco

Hep•a

at

deleration

DIr

by

PUPKINE

r1ct

find

MURMANY

19

ot

descr

:1n

a Crimple-

•uriny

May..

of

ALsO

ptrito exhibits

hared on

the shuary

Front.

ed

10] -Fuer Conference

For

repurte

1:8 ГУ

y111

tor

8hr

say. report.

flea to country saling

arrentini

nay recalled in

¡рвай мигіпк Ха.

Entire

are

currently processs

March and repluresenta

82213

(ARMIRDON AMBARI-: and 27)

delegation in la Paz, workine through suct:.

AIMIN

Front,

the Freite de lirion de la Libertad and

TATT

Mason MatTo nik a special

tir doc for tre late ur lentity f.

de 1. -1

dagine pre support of

"i bitter

.T. PiTa

126011004 A50

Tray Sear Fileder dachauges.

screene che trauman.

FELL -

/ 4*

•aird - ANDA I-l: 21. i4. 38, 32)

110.

Xin:28:r P0rappeal

thal hero, a tazarre

Braztlla:

up: receiving

appeal denied ti. extytence of

Heanerile.

ALSPPIE In PONRINE hit the

*=..

mitter turtures of loentity s

picked up by tre raillion press.

Prazilian

Th1g

Fire!::

Viistr:

•ne the heist

11 drazil

ail bith

---

## Page 5

104-10171-10036

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

PATCHES KA

URGA SECE

s.

л.

-rac-h-r-

real

and being.

torter s

115 pa!

ANSIEL

fire

cir:

Arcite

piadorf o0 tle clandest tse operat loars

contire conclustic

SUBC - CHiRied: ANRARB-57, 24,

69)

HAY. ANNARD-28 berkan

se rnederouct rat lon

niche Mirintian Democr

In WAVF-2754.

Car 2 1r

WAG Warn

la Duracrasca

wriT be induded inche Jung

colcalia - (Assigned: ANBIRR-23,75, 28, 8, 66)

Bogota stallin in in contact titt AXBARB-75 pha 1a

i covert agent on station asslannents:

Mie OffICIal ANKARD Celeration 1a sell

throudhou!

Orlomblo aith delerations in

Barranguilla, Cartagena. Sante Marfa, Cali.

arid Maniraley.

(tor detailed report of ANRARR

orgartzar len and operartonel tracus. in Colombia gee

erparate. cover

attachment E.)

Pursuant to lustruc-

tore tron AUBARU heAdQuarirre PEPRiNE. the Colomblad

delegation van

constried during May to preparatton

for 88o X Constero

Tudents.

TRaCTS BETASCURT, RodrICO CORREA

GiNiNTO MERINO.

COSta RIca - (Assigned: AUBARU -39, 67, 68)

Tie Cissa Rican delegatior worked during May.

as conTorred iep reare enough br

Coamunist

"rantiatione ly astonis oy send a PURINES FEU

delekalion,.

but Costa Rica denses vians to the

delegates::

report of the resulta see separato

covor Attachment j)

Ecuador - (Assiened: AURARB-28 and 69)

AMBARU-2H 19 a Quit; atarion Controlled asset and

while

no station reporto are arallable as ret,

TARDOCK rEpOrtA

that

inforeatdon from his gources

describe AMLARB-28

24

ettrunely active. an GYROSE

operallins.

The offlrial delegate.

ANBARB-6S

in brian support us the University Cuuncil

In appraling for the:

life of iden F although the

council hao a Communist as Director at present.

The

carpalyn in behalf of loer f.oas reported as haring

considirallo impact on atudent opinion in Ecuador..

QuateRala - 'Assigned: AUHIRB-20 durig Nay)

AVAIRH-20, Nortly after anglinacio lo Quarrmala,

apparently could not aroad

being rebrolled

rosectine Gil proposals

tor propaganda acd:rities do

the atudent world, sas deportre on charges of lapropor

or false docusontatichi ANSARB

operating

suspended curine ba! and AXBAR8-20

returned to PAPAIVE for reassignuent:

report of nia expersences and tserratione during his

shurt seruro la forsarded as def.role cover attacesent

---

## Page 6

104-10171-10036

CONTINUATION Of

DISPATCH

РАТОМ І МЕСі AN: 4. 190а N

Landwas

assinned.

ANARS AN ANd DEA

a Ton

Tor-arded, too

PAPA

Isee

Lacke

1540820

copiates us spen

terrerat

1021

WhH

4 b9 1768-1109 for Headguarters and krallon

n.

n.

crazuats

Mexica- (Asrigned: 1VB1MB=18 and 9)

AuRARu-14 appealed to the Girlederacton atlana

de estudiar (or) and oftend their support

the exican

Ambassador in PERLDEN tO

intercode in behalt

- AMBARD -18, 10 keepink

with hit

reputatton.

PUS

ch

plan

16

tron

der

Propagat

da I0 Moxico"

study atioNwavE

( See

of Kay.

spec 1al

are

beca

•ntry

v1

Mexico durin

saY.

trying to get

WArand optrate:

the

: C27

•(NIVS 4201)

JargONE AMBARd

it ?

MexiCan

authorallen

relurtant

10 extONd PBPLMEN

was niliged in

abandon

AMBAPI-IT.

•69

170 urd 1?

aro

Piraca- (AaMIRred. ASBARB-13 aNd 34)

The

deluxation

tu Panama

hase been. connilted in the

mpalining

19r

aludent clectlug

mid-

Jur...

AMBARRS

hart

1dud..sl.th

cur

apposition gioups 1y

Farmin

opposed. to

this

incuntient

atudent

federatien

Reports on other actiolien inte

been regursted:

Paraly

1T. rr appeare

Pole: an. Baplicati

nu tual

Seatton aid

аксікрем рагокоду. )

that no dubiRasare to be

Priu a CAs asted:

AURARH-J9 and 22)

AXHARH-51 and S2 are Hell processing visas for

ansionment.

AMRARA -22 10

surettonion do afficial

Ton-

eroiled covert penetration do the Christian

student

bovement

Accordine to carront

AXRASB-9 1 dolad sooe valuahle work and

tion cobach

return

during May.

ha: boen castled to untersity atudent

Aprista and Christlan:

MISCINES

Mere detailed operatlanad reportiny 18

expected for the June progress

report.

San Salvador - (ulldur-63 processang)

the stattin raw expressed on urgent need

station report in

•l MINaS to PORINES too presen accurate thus far:

Arrennes for visa

lespaire are currertl; uodervay in

chird. country consulates.

---

## Page 7

104-10171-10036

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

EXCA - 4529

0:

Santo Duelogo a Cassisped

arrived Sarto Don

AMDARD-71 and 76)

пел;

with

and

MISE

brief

descriptton

spel

na?

iont

address.

He

stablished contact

groups known

:0.9.U9E.

and repor

forthconing.

shoul

May that

he

waH

while,

be

ANSPELL reported 1D

Le

acked by i Communist group and

badly baten

(ThIR

vas later confirued by

deurdefing AMPANIC-l upon

arrival. AMBARD-76:18

currently in

crea

for LOLUTTER aDd

assessment upon Sarto Doninko station request.

-Prlor

to his departure

he also

wan reportedly lured into

a Communist trap and Banand to cacape a beat

or wurse because he was armed.

Santo statton das

concurred with policy for all ANNARIS there to procur

and carry

defene ive weapon

INwAVE 18 now pro-

CossIne AKHINT-39 for Santo aunignsent to asalot

AN4яв-7) at the unirerally.

?. Uruguay - CAN or FoRd to condo

April for Travo,

reassiaruent to Uruguay.)

19BARB-20, upon, return from Guatemala, das PrOCeNBed

durinx.

Hay for reassianarit in trukuay. to word with

AXBARi-S uNcin

Since the Uruguryan. delega-

clon was extremely

activr and produced vers well

under station control and guldance, a March upera

tional report ar

siren by AMAXB-59 la forwarded

as an exanple.o.f

terr activitles. see sparato

cover attachment!,)

Venezuela

Doleration activitire durtne kay vere, centered on tho

preparation

and

participation in Congreso Kurdiäl

POPRIME Or 10.28).

with bretting matetials for the

AMBARS delegation to this congress.

2)

Total Support:

Month of May. $ 24,109.01

AMBARB Salaries

$ 11.925.00

Africa Tour

3. 7,838.01

AUBARU radio netzork S 1, 882.00

Processin & Ope: $ 8,964.00

3)

Intelligruce Produc?1.2n:

(Covered by Paragraph S A3).

+)

Development and Plans:

(See Book Dispatch 32)1)

END OF DISPATCH

ДР/

---

## Page 8

104-10171-10036

Separare Copur dicachecne do.crco-x=25

Ider A - AIDerIO KILLER Ofitane:

iden B Xanuel SAvAn Roque

Igen C - VIRuel GARCIA ArBOScEl

Iden D - Ernesto FERNANDEZ PereZ

ideo E - Trincheras

Iden F - Hans Hengler

Dateo

---

