# 104-10216-10244

## Page 1

104-10216-10244.

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

FROM:

N.D. Sanchez

WH/SA/SO/HH

TO: PRIORITY

INFO:

CITE DIR 73048

RYBAT TYPIC YOBITE AMLASH AMWORLD

REF:

2635 (IN 47894)

1. AT MEETING 22 DEC ANWHIP-I CONFIRMED ANLASH-I PLANS TRAVEL

MADR WITH UNSNAFU-19 26 DEC. PRIMARY REASON HIS MADR TRIP IS TALK WITH

AHLASH-2 IN ORDER DETERMINE EXTENT AND DEPTH AMLASH-2 CONVERSATIONS

WITH AMBIDDY-1 REPS MADR. ALTHOUGH FROM PERSONAL SECURITY POINT OF

CUBA

VIEN, SINCE HE RETURNING PBRUMEN, AMLASH-I DISINCLINED MEET PERSONALLY

WITH AMBIDDY-1, HE INTERESTED DETERMINING FROM AMLASH-2 WHAT CAN BE

CASTRO

GAINED TO ADVANCE STRUGGLE AGAINST AMTHUG BY JOINING FORCES WITH

AMBIDDY-1 AND HIS GROUP.

2. AMLASH-I WAS INFORMED BY KUBARK AT MEETING IN PARI EARLY

0.5.Gerr.

DEC 64 THAT ODYOKE CANNOT RENDER ANY KIND OF SUPPORT AND WOULD NOT

CAstro.

BECOME INVOLVED IN ANY WAY IN HIS PLAN NEUTRALIZE AMTHUG. AMLASH-1

U.5

CLAIMS TO UNDERSTAND ODYOKE'S POSITION BUT SINCE HE SEES NO OTHER

CUBA

-SOLUTION TO PBRUMEN PROBLEM HE PLANS CONTINUE HIS OWN EFFORTS AND

CASTRO

ATTEMPT IGNITE INTERNAL COUP AGAINST AMTHUG REGIME. SINCE AMLASH-Y

AVARE HE CANNOT GET SUPPORT FROM OYOKE, HE MAY TRY AMBIDDY-1. WHILE

HQS WOULD LIKE SEE AMLASH-1 AND AMBIDDY-I GET TOGETHER, IT IS NOT

DESIRED KUBARK BE INTERMEDIARY. HE CAN ONLY ENCOURAGE INDIRECTLY AND

11.5.G007

PERMIT THEM REACH OWN DECISIONS. AMLASH-I WAS TOLD ODYOKE HAS NO

SEGRET

-

1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

PAGE 2

d.5.

CONTROL OVER AMBIDDY-I SINCE HE OPERATES FROM OUTSIDE PBPRIME

TERRITORY BUT IT FACT AMBIDDY-I MOST ACTIVE LEADER WORKING

FOR LIBERATION HIS COUNTRY.

3. HHILE PROBABLY SUSPECTED, MEITHER AMLASH-I NOR AMBIDDY-I

KNOW THAT KUBARK IN UNILATERAL CONTACT WITH OTHER. KUBARK DOES NOT

PLAN REVEAL THIS FACT OR CONFIRM IT IF THEY MEET AND REVEAL CASE

TO EACH OTHER. ALTHOUGH QUSPORT HAS BEEN BRIEFED IN PAST, PLEASE

REMIND HIM HE SHOULD NOT REVEAL HIS KNONLEDGE AMLASH-I CONTACT

MITH KUBARK TO ANYONE.

A. IF AMLASH-I TAKES INITIATIVE CONTACT QUSPORT WHILE IN

MADRID, SUGGEST CONTACT BE PERMITTED SINCE THEY PERSONAL FRIENDS.

HQS INTERESTED RECEIVING ANYTHING AMLASH-I MAY TELL QUSPORT.

AMLASH-I DID NOT ASK FOR KUBARK CONTACT IN MADRID AND NONE REQUIRED.

AMLASH-I MAY ASK FOR GROWERY ON PERSONAL BASIS BUT CONTACT UNNECESSARY.

END OF MESSAGE

M.D.0 RYAN

C/ME

DC/MH/SA

no motor

---

