# 104-10216-10315

## Page 1

104-10216-10315

DISPATCH

80

1470

Deputy Chief, WH-SA

Chief, VE

QLAISNICATION

PIOCISSING ACTIONS

Into me noons

DESENSITIZEO

100Y QUASINO DESS

CAN JOCE MADONNE

SUBJECT

Chief of Station,.

KEYWAY PERIME! USAFU

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

FOR YCUR INFOZMATION

- transmittal of UNSHAPU/18 Transcripts

Forwarded under separate cover are the UNSNAFU/16 trangeripts for

the period 28 August - I1 Septenber. These are the caly ores received so

far.

AULA S. MIRRIE

Attachment: as stated, U/s/c

Transeripts (in duplicate).

Distribution:

2 - DC, Wi-SA w/atts

- Chief, WE so atts

508:327 10220504a c70746

Group 1

Excluded from autonatio

Downgrading and

Declassification

ALASH-l's file

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH STMBOL AND NUMBER

OFPA-77062

ECRST/KAPO

OCT 23 10K!

BATE

21 October 196%

MOS FOLE MEREBER

201-725232

---

## Page 2

Suall calx...es a natter of fact, mostly jaby talk, vito tie

coildren.

Then, tagle is also the cuildren's some sort.. "orsia otero selos

toen acd inisiates toes to the meteries i tis desinal sisten.

Later on, saccia Obern mentiona tsat ae is going to go to the

inbassy; a certain NOVO arrived of is about in arrive, coning

from Switzerland; ne also wants to see daft wao's supposed to

be in Paris.

They talk about AERICA MISSOLo and mention at sae's just vac

¡rom cuba; toey mention taat, she is sliz-aly oft der rockerar

content favourably on ser mugbend no's a loconotive tecanicien;

Garcia Otero would like to send sin to tube on a sear contraci.

America is supposed to nave seen FAUME CHO'CRE aná

in Cuba.

They also taix about 53?- ELLA •EL PINO; taey mostly talk about

der note, how old

sue is etc... done gussid about seople they, used

to iron in suba; in tais case, PANDAlTO CUlO vao fled tue

istand a waile ago.

6-712044

---

