# 104-10220-10110

## Page 1

104-10220-10110

CIA HISTORICAL NEVEW PROGRAM-.

MOUlING

DATE

•10

ACTION

INFO :

• DIHEETO

DOES ADDED

2205, Ca 2, 64/06, Ca/ppop, i9/0 4,

68/0p5,

co/re 2,

ry 600, 08/108 6, 1: 10.

565. 12, MN 0, 38 To D8/89 AD/CI 2, AD/SIy RF, VR

TD6808:3/656,676

SEP 17 51507 63 IN 28951

SECRET 1623337

DIR INFO CARA MASLA COCO ENTO: CITE WAVE $$35

INTEL TYPIC

SUFLATA: ARCONCERT-I WO VISITED PRIC 16 SEPT PRIO HAD TALKED

WITH LUIS SUMOZA ON & SIPT WIN LATTER IN MIAMI FOR LEGION

TALK. REF US 3635 AND WAVE 4343 (111 M695) (RYAT), RID:

FILEO 16E3332 REPORT GLADS CORTIDENT:: CONTROLLIO DISSEM

COUTRY: CURLA

COMMENTS DE FOIMER CUAM PRESIC-IT CARLOS PRIC SOCARRAS

A CLEAN EXILE MID WAS PROMITT IN POLITICS AT

PROMICIAL LEVER IN CURA, SOURCE IS DELI MARCER BY THE CUELAN

EXILES AND HAS REFORTED CUSICTIVELY DE: TIMIR POLITICAL MANEUVERS.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OUTANITO FIOM FORGER CUBAN PRESIDENT CARLOS

PRIO SOCARRAS.

TW COMMENT:

i6O SEPARATE TABLE DISIRIDUTION

I BENIG MADE OF THIS TOCE

SAS

1:

i!.!

TDCS

FRECIDENCE

ILIASEG TO

1686P8685C3 1963

101E

SE

RICANO I DUNE MAN ISING CHICE IS

143ID ON

1*ACN

UrG 3636

Croe Ats.

---

## Page 2

APPROVED FOR SZLEASE 1994

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

BREGRAN LLOR MATON PEPERTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

CONFIDENTIAL

CUBA

DISSES ATON COMINO

ONTROLLED DISSER

SURFECT

BATE OF

COMAINTS OF FORNER CULAN "ELSIDENT CARLES

PRIO SOCARRAS AFTER HIS TALM WITH FORRER

MICARAGUAN PRESIDENT LUIS SOMOZA

8 SEPTEHUER 1963

UUITEO STAYES (12 SEPTENDER 1903)

ALFORINO. TDCS 00-3/656,676

DATE DISTI

87 SPETONER 1963

PRECEDENCE

. ROUTINE

REFERENCES

INe 286951

T06504 3/656,675

HACE &

DATE ACO.

APRATAL

FIELO REPORI NO.

TRAS S UNE VALUATRO MORA I

SUELE CRADIOS ARE DEF ANTIVT. APPHAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIE

SOURCE

A CUDAM CHILE NIO

SAS PROMINENT IN POLITIIS AT THE PROVINCIAL LEVEL IN UBA

THE CUBAN EXILEIII" HAS REPORTED OBJECTIVELY ON THEIR

IMIS INTPKNATION VIS OBTAINCO FROM FORMER CUBAN PRESIDENT

FOLIVACAL NAALUVERS,

CARIOS PRIO SOCARRAS.

- DURING A LONVERCATION ON O SEPTENER 1903 GETWEN FORMER

CULAN PRESIDENT CARLOS PRID SOCARRAS O FORMER MICARAGUAN PRESIDENT

LUIS SOMOZA IN MIAMI, SiMAOCA SIGNESTCO THAT PRIO VISIT VENCZUELA TO

HAVE DISCUSSICNS WITH PRESIDINT ROMULO CIANCOURT IN ONDER TO ENSURE

THAT BETANCOURT "AND OTICH LLETISTS SUI AS DOMINICAN PRESIDENT MAN

LUSCA Y CAVINO AND COLOMIDA PRESIDENO CUILLETON LECH VALENCIA

DO NOT MARE ANT PULLIC STATIMINTS MUCH WILL HAIN THE PLANS THAT

SONDEA ANO FRIO ARE TRYINO TO ACHIEVE. ASCORDING TO PRIO,

SOMOZA WANTS TO GIVE HIS PLAN MIR: APPEARANCE OF A, LATIN'AMERICAN

LEFORT INSOTAR AG IT IS POSSIÜLI, IN COSTP TO SOFTEN ANY SOVIET

CONADENTIAL

CLaSSiNIC:

PARSEGIRATION CONTACIS

CONTINSILED LISSEM

REPT

IRLAG.IHY

MINFORMATION REPORT TELEGRA

•NIKA 44497 143 200

1332-3184

---

## Page 3

14-00000

.?:.

SASSER AT MO. MISADIATION ESPITECHS

CONFIPENTIAE

PIANO LEA

GONTROLLE ESSE

IDCS 64-3/656,676

CHARGES THAT THE PLAN IS A U.S. UNDERTAKING.

! 2. THE UNITY GROUP, WICH INCLUDES EARLOS MARQUEZ STERLING,

CUSTBIO MUAL BARNIOL AND JOSE MORELL ROMERO, HAS AGREED THAT PRIO

WILL BE THE CIVIL REPRESENTATIVE IN THE PLAN. CTHER UNIDENT:FIED

PERSON WILL REPRESENT THE MILITARY SIDE OF IT.

3. SOMOZA TOLD PRIO THAT YOUNG ELEMENTS ARE NOT MATURE ENOUGH

TO GOVERN CULA IN THE DISASTER THAT WILL FOLLOW.

I ACCORDING TO PRIO THE. PLAN WAS IN ITS FINAL STAGES. PRIO

PLANNED TO BE IN VENEZUELA. ABOUT FOUR: EAYS AND EXPECTED TO SPEAK

ON THF. RADIO THERE. HE WOULD PROBABLY EF. ACCOMPANIED BY HIS

CHAUSTEUR, RAFAEL IZQUILADO, AND HIS SECRETARY, ORLANDO PUENTE

PEREZ,

SO PRIO APPEARIO VERY CONTENT AND SAID "RISTICE WILL FINALLY

BE DONE TO ME*.

6. FIELD DISSEM: MIAMI REPS OF STATE AND FBI, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

* 208951

PAGE

WIRETAL

723 5E9

AND OF A SEAGE

CONTESS ESSEN

CONTE ON ON TRES RICHUNTIN IRDAT

0337-00-079

1.

---

