# 104-10167-10245

## Page 1

104-10167-10245

1 AprIl 1960

MEKORLHDUM FOR THE PECORD

•SUBJECT: Mareos DIAZ Lang

I. It would appear that subject left the U.S. for Mexico some menths ago

on the advice of a lawyer, that be went to Mesdeo, thereby viola:inz his parole,

and then couldn't ret a risa to get back into the U.3.

He was a little upset

about this since he says he was just trying to legalize his stitus in the U.s.

After a couple of mo: hs, it was finally agreed that he noald be allored to re-

enter the U.S, on parole.

It is very confusing ho advised what, hio was pushing

who, or thy, but Ilks seened to think CIA was rushing the hardest, but now has

changed its wind. Be that as it may, they seen to have set up two interriers for

subject at the Bebassy, at the first of which be was told all the bad aspecta

of bia situation, but--failed to tell him they had agreed to let his back in the

U.S. on parole.

So sablect took off on his own with the aid of sore Catholic

organizzticn,

swan the river and made his way to Washington where he contacted

an unstated Congressicnal, probably Senate, comittee, who passed hin on to I&NS,

apparently General Srirg hirself. The General was not pleased, becauge obrievel

no had a tot potato. In short there vere objections to every possibie solution.

Sabjoct has a wife and two children legelly resident in Florida and one of the

children is an Anerican citizen, and owns a home there, so paroling the subjeet

anywhere else might cause some bed publicity.

2. In the absence of Mr. Seebafer, Mr. JORDAN of if Division wes asked to

go over with Mr. Pennington to a meeting with Idis, at 11:30 on 1 Aril.

Mr. Henessey revieved the ease and wanted to know what CIA warted done with DIAZ,

and Mr. Pennington and another person said they had tilked to Shef Edrards and it

had been agreed that the new poliey on paroles roald probably be the best thing

as that night keep bin out of our hair in Florica. Mr. Henessey reviewed a lot

of the legal situation and said in practice it rouldn't work, and he wanted an in

mediate decision as to whether CIA would say that it was in the national interest,

and in sriting, that CiA ranted subject held scentere.

After consultation with

Col. King, Mr. Reynolis and Miss Tharpo, Mr. JORDAN said that it din't seem likely

that CIA sould express in uriting nuch of any desires or wishes about subject.

Kr. Renessey then brought subject in and gave him a stern talk about his obligation

and conduct under parole.

The parole paper was finally drawn up, and at about

la pollo, subject nas released.

3. Kr. JORDAN had a brief conversation with subject in a tarl roing don tomm

an subject was in a hurry.

He implied that Id'S bad impressed on his to get out

of town as cuickly as possible, and said they had told him to go to bis home in

SECRET

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

1 Arril 1960

Page 2

Florida and keep clean, and had set up an appointment idth the Ikf'S people in Dade

County on 2 April at 10 a.ll. Subject said be rould look Freddie in Kiani up next

week.

He said he thought CIA should look into Fernando Davalo Devalos, a Mexiean

pilot sno lived et Loreto 1l, Merdeo City, who according to a padre had agreed to

8o to the U.S. on 2 April and picis up a plane, ister thie plane wou'e earry arms

for Castro to Caba.

The above, with the exception of the part about the Merican pilot, was

summarized for Mr. Reichhurdt by phone at 4:30 Dol.

5. Mr. Hennessey commented several times about sending a letter to Mr. Dalles

asking that a policy line be estabiisted that nore of our people shoule diseuse

the details of immigration procedures and status vith persons vio vent to, or se

nant to come to the U.S.

He resaried that State should have goe kind of overt

escapee progras, so that CIA woulán't get all this "garbage".

6. JORDAN passed to Pennington via Langlin a copy of the parole document

signed by subject.

03

C8. Baedbee /(SCEDAR)

Distribation:

Orig. & 1 - Routed to:

Hs. Goses

Mr. Reynolds

Xr. Seehaler

1 - hit/h/Sabject

1 - RH/l/Chrono

03.

SECRET

2/90

---

