# 104-10217-10144

## Page 1

104-10217-10144

some

21 October 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: AC/H/COG

SUBJECT

: Release of AMCALI-1

1. The negotiation for ANCALL-l's release was completed

by AMECRU-1 on 26 August and $120,000 ransom was paid to the

Cuban negotiator in Paris at that time. $70,000 of the ransom

was provided by the Agency and the $50,000 balance was paid

by representatives of the Catholic Church. AMECRU-1 anticipated

AMCALL-l'g release would be effected within two months from the

time the negotiation was completed. If the Cubans meet this

tentative time schedule, AMCALL-1 should arrive in Madrid by

the last week of October.

2. Since the Cuban Government has been unpredictable as

to the actual date of release in other cases of ransomed prisoners,

there would appear to be no cause for alarm that nothing further

has been heard about -AMCALL-l's release. Although AMSIGN-2 was

released within one month of the tire his ransom was paid, AMRIPE-2

was not released for two months. The Cuban Government demonstrated

Its good faith in these negotiations by refunding the AMPANIC-7

table for release of any prisoner which, they insist, is dictated

by individual circumstances and internal conditions at a specific

time.

Maneue S brit,

Nancye S. Gratz

WH/COG/SA

STORET,

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

#I FILE 1D.

DISPATCH CB SOURCE DOG. SYMBOL 10.

#+ DATE

CUALVATION

$. ANALYST

•. DATE PROCESSEO

AI- BATE

O8- CHOIS REGERIO TO THIS PILE

DOCUMENT EISPCSATION

- TRINSFERREO TI

# FIRE ma.

PERTINENT INFOEATION

AMCALL

111

201--275949

SEX N

DOB ?

CIT

OCC

?...

201-061063

#109-02004

10 SEN

• 70

R 7010020223

T!'=1.231225949

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

Toms 867 B00 00

SECRET

87- 08)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSENINATION

PURCHAST NATIO

NOVANCE COPY

wit

ATs.

1315

_CLASSIFIED MESSAGE -

TOTAL COMES AS •

(when Filled In)

SECRET, -

HEPROQUETION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

BEDER

Dress

CLAmPY TO CE FILE NO.

HARE TO CA FLING.

O Me Re

• RETURN TO

MOUTHIS An

MOTIAL® SEEN HY

PRECEDENCE

...=

DEBTEM BY

A 7100

FILE, VR

летуі на

195

ace offiza

g/MAs/RE

SECRE I 241245Z AUG 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 8681 (NEBECKER ACTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

RYBAT TYPIC AMECRU AMCALL

REF A DIRECTOR 0613B3

24 AncH: 1 48664

di

B MIMTAM 8641 6146011)

1': GORDON M. BINIARIS ADVISED STATION THAT WIFE OF

AMCALL-I IELEPHONED AMECRU! TWENTY THREE AUGUST STATING MONEY

BEING DEPOSITED PER REF A. AMECRU! STATED HE WOULD PICK UP

MONEY TWENTY FOUR AUGUST AND MEET WITH PERUMEN OFFICIAL & NO

WAME STATED) ON TWENTY FIVE AUGUST. NO MENTION MADE OF

$5,008 EXPENSE MONEY DURING CONVERSATION. HOWEVER, WIFE OF

AMCALL-I WROTE LETTER TO AMECRU! ON SIXTEEN AUGUST EXPLAIWING

SITUATION PER REFS.

2• AMECRU-! FINISHED CONVERSATION BY STATING THAT HE

ALMOST SURE CASE TO TAKE SAME COURSE AS THAT OF MIGUEL GARCIA,

I. Eo, RELEASE IN TWO MONTHS FROM TIME TRANSACTION COMPLETED.

30 FILE: 2B1-861063 AND 201-275949- GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

L

---

## Page 4

14-00000

EDITIONS

•E SECRETARIAT DISSERINATION

C

IFICO MESSAGE

TOTAL CCrIE

SECRET

3059 J5 в

(libren Filled in)

88 de

ROUTERS AMALCA MARLAN

"SLOTTES

IDER:

- Ar.

1340-=

CLASSIFY TO CS FUTNO..

I-SEE TO ES FRENO. ..

IPRECEDENCE

FER

DIRERO DETURTO

BRANCH

C/WNg

EI FILE, VR « RIbO c/EmS Dop. Aappe clic/52

ECRET RISE QUE TOGET GENE

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

J1..

RYBAT APECRU AMCALL

REF WHITAME 8681 (2118661)

WILLISt

lo WIFE OF AMCALL-I RECEIVED CABLE ON TWENTY SIX AUGUST FROM

AMECRU-I STATING "CUMPLIMENTADO" • POUCHING COPY.

2. FILE: 201-275949. GPI

SE

CRET

S046

.?:

87 AUG 1979

CS COPY

201-275949

SECRET

---

