# 104-10406-10017

## Page 1

1104-10406-10017

9, 60

SECRET/RYBAT

WH/COG 67-194

MENORANDUN FOR:

ADDP

C/CI/R & A (Nr. Rocca) '

SUBJECT

: Garrison and The Kennedy Assassinati

REFERENCE : CI/R & A Nemorandum Dated .26 Aprid 1967

Group has endeavored to provide all available information on

individuals and organizations requested in paragraphs 5, 6 and

7 of reference.

and biographic.data. on individuals obtained from WH/COG and

JNVAVE files.

tion and Agency

2 2422

IH/Cuban Operations

Attachment 1 contains background information

Attachment 2 summarizes the background informa

association with the organizations listed in

paragraph 5 of r'eference..

WH/COG will continue tó revier all material that may

contain information pertinent to this subject and will forward

such information to clk & Aon a priority basis.

AC/WH/COG

Attachnent 1

Bio data on individuals

Attachment 2

Background

sumnary of FRD, DRE, INCA

percent by

(A)CO, (6) 163)

51357

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Attachment 1

Sergio Vicente ARCACHA Smith (Enclosure 2

of

reference memorandum)

DPOB: 22 January 1923, Cuba

Traces on ARCACHA do not reflect the date he first

he became the FRENTE REVOLU

CIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRI) delegate in New Orleans prior

to the Bay of Pigs invasion and continued in that position

until the FRD ceased to function.

The FRD was the predecessor

ot the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL, and was organized and

supported by the Agency.

The organization was used as a

front for recruitment of Brigade 2506 for the invasion.

During this period ARCACHA reported to the FRD headquarters

in Niami through a post office box in Coral Gables, and

r'éportedly maintained extensive relations with the

Orleans FBI and Immigration offices.

Two of his regular

FBI contacts were a Ni. De Bruce and the deceased Guy

Banister®

2.

ARCACHA was also one of the promoters of the

FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUBA,

which was incorporated

in New Orleans on 6 January 1961. This organization was

ostensibly created by several New Orleans business and

political figures, including the deceased former FBI agent,

Guy Banister,

to collect money to aid Cubans in their

fight against Communism®

According to the articles of

incorporation, these donations would also be used

to support

tle FRD and the funds were to be channeled through ARCACHA,

less a percentage to be retained by the FDC.

An

investi-

gation conducted by a reliable Miami. Station asset concluded

that the FDC was organized strictly for the personal gain

of the promoters with the approval and collaboration of

ARCACHA.

The investigation produced no evidence that any

individual donations were ever solicited or received and

recommended that the funds of the Stevedores Union and the

books

of the New Orleans Exporters Company be

for evidence of

investigated

personal

gain and possible evidence of

federal tar evasion,

since both

the president of the New

rleans exporters company,

Gerard F. Tunague, and the Chief

i New Orleans Stevedores Union,

Alfred Chittenden, were

officials of the FDC. Approximately one month after the

FDC was created,.

strong criticism from some prominent Cubans

put the organization out of business.

3.

Information in an immigration card reflects that

ARCACHA travelled to Caracas, Venezuela at an unspecified

date.

His address in Venezuela was HOTEL TINA, Caracas,

and his US address was listed as 4523 Duplesses Street,

New Orleans.

Passport No. 00433.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

4.

Background information on the FDC and

ARCACHA's

connection with the organization

was forwarded

to the

FBI

in CSCI-3/764, 414,

dated 30 March 1961-

Other sources of

the above summary of information

on ARCACHA are; DBF-66955,

13 January 1961; DBF-91759,

11 October 1961; DBF-92355, 18

October 1961; CSCI-316/-3737-65; and UFGA-929,

22 February

1961°

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SER RA

Carlos BRINGUER (Enclosure 6 of reference memorandum)

Carlos BRINGUER Is a brother of Juan Felipe BRINGUER

Esposito, a former member of Brigade 2506 'who was captured

The personal history statement in

Juan BRINGUER'S 201

during the invasion ile states his brother Carlos, a lawyer

in Cuba, was 26 years old at the time of Juan's recruitment

in 1960.

SEQUET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECAFT

Edward S. BUTLER (Paragraph 7 (A) of reference memorandum)

In January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA) : sponsored

the New Orleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly after

her arrival in the US.

INCA had a particular interest in

Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contai-

ing Miss CASTRO's declarations when she was surfaced in

A JWAVE asset; who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,

handled the planning and arrangements for the New Orleans

visit with INCA officials.

The only subsequent contact

between the JMWAVE asset and Edward BUTLER

occurred when

BUTLER was recently in Miami promoting the

"CASTRO-HITLER in HAVANA".

See Attachment 2 for a

of the INCA organization.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SEGRET

Albert FOWLER (Paragraph 7(B) of reference memorandum)

• DPOB: 15. July 1929, New Orleans, Louisiana

1. Subject is Alberto Casimir FOWLER Perillait,

member of Brigade 2506 who was captured during the invasion

and returned to the US in the December 1962 prisoner

exchange.

FOWLER apparently returned to Cuba with his parents

during his early life and returned to the US to attend

schal in his late teens.

Lenox,

Massachusetts,

He attended the Lenox School,

1948-49; Louisiana State University

1949-51.

After his graduation from LSU he returned to Cuba

and married Margarita Paulette Van der SCHUEREN, born 13

August 1933, Brussels, Belgum.

FOWLER was President of

the North American

Havana, from 1951 until

he returned

in November 1960

Brigade 2506. At the time of his enlistment he gave Mark

FOSTER, Cuban Refugee Center White House Representative,

and former US Ambassador William D. PAULEY, as references.

Following his release from prison FOWLER worked for the

BRAHMS CONSTRUCTION COMPANY,

Palm Beach,

Florida, where his

father resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm

Beach,

Florida,

until at least late 1964.

He

apparently

lost his US citizenship during his years

of residence in

Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied for advance

parole status in November 1964 while he

was still employed

in W. Palm Beach.

He apparently returned to Louisiana

sometime after

that date.

FOWLER's mother lives in Coving-

ton, Louisiana, and he has a sister who is married to Fort

PIPES, JI., member of a prominent New Orleans family.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECKET

Emilio SANTANA (paragraph 7 C of reference memorandum)

DPOB:

7 Sept 1935,

Sept 1937

1. Subject is probably identifiable with Emilio SANTANA

Galindofor an infiltration team.

recruited by JMWAVE in December 1960 as a

guide

SANTANA was paid a monthly

salary under provisions of his MOC until he was terminated

on 15 October 1963 when the ratline developed by the team

became

inoperable due to occupation of the target area by

Soviet technicians.

Another compelling reason

for SANTANA's

termination stemmed from his untruthful reporting concerning

certain aspects of the team operations.

2.

In an

attempt to establish positive identification,

IMWAVE

obtained a report from the Dade County (Miami)

Sheriff's office that an Enilio SANTANA (no matronymic)

born 6 July I936 in Cuba, was declared a fugitive from

Louisiana on a federal warrant 22 December 1965,

FBI Sheet

132287F,

based on

two counts of burglery

in Louisiana.

He was

arrested and booked by the Dade County Sheriff's

office on 2 February 1966 and was presumably sent back to

Louisiana.

At the time of his arrest SANTANA gave his

address as 851 SW 4th Street, Miami, which is the same

address shown on an old immigration

farm when he was

living in Miami.

Headquarters files indicate SANTANA is

separated from his wife who apparently still resides at

the old Miami address.

Since SANTANA's date of birth varies

on various documents in his 201 file, the variation in birth

date on his arrest sheet is not conclusive.

The fact he

did give his former address to the arresting officers

indicates he is Emilio SANTANA Galindo.

A 1962 immigration

form includes a photograph which could be obtained from

IMWAVE for identification purposes if this becomes necessary.

Although JMWAVE has had no contact with SANTANA

his termination,

there is a note in Station files

23 June 1964 that SANTANA used the Agency as his

employer on an auto credit application.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Carlos QUIROGA (Paragraph 7(C) of reference memorandum)

Subject is possibly identifiable with, Carlos QUIROGA,

a former student at Lousiana State University who was a

candidate for the Agency Student Recruitment Program.

This

involved recruitment of Cuban students in the US who would

return to Cuba as agents in place.

JMWAVE traces reflect

an Individual of the same name was an electrical engineer.

residing at 3134 Derby Place, New Orleans, in December 1964.

Subject reportedly had homosexual tendencies, low morals,

and until the middle of 1961 was an ardent CASTRO supporter

and made antiUS statements.

There is no indication that a

Carlos QUIROGA was ever

employed by the Agency in any

capacity.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

Julian BUZNEDO (Enclosure 8 of reference memorandum)

DPOB: 16 February 1940, Havana, Cuba,

Subject is apparently identifiable with Julian BUZNEDO

Castellanos Brigade 2506.

who arrived in the US on 10 November 1960 and

enlisted in

He was a civilian pilot in Cuba

and served on the invasion craft BARBARA J.

BUZNEDO was

captured and released in the prisoner exchange.

(There is no

indication he was ever employed by the Agency, other than

his participation in the invasion.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECHET

Gordon Duane NOVEL (Enclosure 19 of reference memorandum)

There is no record of Subject in WH/Cuban Operation

Group files or JMWAVE files.

JMWAVE cited the article.

on NOVEL which appeared in the MIAMI HERALD on 26 April

1967,

which is available in CI/R & A, and is in the process

of conducting

an exhaustive search for traces on the cover

organizations NOVEL claimed to operate for the Agency in

New Orleans.

SEGME:

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SEGAZT

Miguel Silva TORRES (Enclosure 23 of reference memorandum)

(also tinced under Niguel SILVA Torres)

There is no record of Subject under either. name in WH/COG

01' JWAVE files.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SEC..,

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL. (DRE)

(STUDENT. REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE)

1.

The DRE was conceived, created and funded by the

Agency

in September 1960 and terminated in

December 1966.

It was an outgrowth of the activist student group in Cuba

which fought against BATISTA and later against CASTRO.

Many of the leaders came into exile around September 1960

and were subsequently trained and infiltrated into Cuba

by the Agency in late 1960 where they

operated by obtain-

ing intelligence setting up action teams, etc.,

up through

the Bay of Pigs invasion.

While the DRE

was initially set

up as a psych warfare outfit, the organization was given a

large amount of paramilitary aid in funds and material.

After

the Bay of Pigs,

the DRE engaged in independent

military actions, which declined at Agency direction and

because of a reduction in funds from late 1962 until ter

mination of the group.

Members were used through 1966 as

political action agents,

for publishing propaganda which

was sent throughout the Hemisphere, attending international

student meetings at Agency direction, and producing radio

programs and special propaganda campaigns.

2.

After the cutback in military operations, many

of the

best DRE members relocated in other areas.

At

present there are delegations in most Latin American coun

tries which have maintained some contact with various

Agency stations over the years although the DRE is no

longer very active.

During the organization's 6 year

period of active existence DRE personnel were in contact

with

several JMWAVE staffers and outside contract agents.

However,

from January 1965 through December 1966, contact

with

DRE personnel

was limited

to two agents, Juan Manuel

SALVAT, the current DRE Secretary General who is now

operating a bookstore in Miami,

Florida, and Fernando

GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvador.

SEB

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SEC ST

THE INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1.

INCA is an anti-Communist propaganda organization

• with headquarters in New Orleans,

that, disseminates English

and foreign language propaganda tapes and films on a world-

wide basis, conducts public forums of an extremist

political nature,

The organizational impetus and funds

apparently come from wealthy New Orleans figures including

Dr. Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard E.

ROBERTSON.

In recent years funds have been supplied by the

SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY.

An INCA letterhead listing all

the officers and officials has been requested from JMWAVE,

which has had some casual correspondence with the organiza-,

tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

There is no indication

of any Agency relationship

with INCA priör to January 1965 when INCA sponsored Miss

CASTRO's appearance in New Orleans.

asset who functioned as Miss CASTRO'S business

involved with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans

visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored by INCA.

The dinner, which was attended by civic

leaders and representatives of

all news media, took place

shortly after Miss CASTRO's defection and there was

considerable interest in her appearance.

INCA was particularly

interested since it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing her statements when

she was surfaced in Mexico.

In October 1966 INCA again

requested that Miss CASTRO

appear as a guest speaker in

major American cities in connection

the INCA motion picture production

"HITLER IN HAVANA".

Following various reviews of the film,

ilm would probably become controversial and it would be

inadvisable to permit Miss CASTRO to accept the invitation.

Because of INCA's extremist political orientation,

IMWAVE

has wanted to avoid any more

involvement between Miss CASTRO

and INCA and the Station asset, in his capacity as business

manager, has managed to prevent this.

There has been

one casual contact between our asset and Edward BUTLER,

Executive Vice-President of INCA, since Miss CASTRO'S

New Orleans trip.

This took place recently

in the area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" PiL BUTLER waS

According to JMWAVE, INCA officials have never

indicated in any way that they are aware of Arencu control

and direction of

and there

is no indication that INCA officials have had any official

contact with Agency officers.

---

## Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD)

(CUBAN DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY FRONT)

1.

The FRD was created with Agency assistance,

guidance and financial support in May 1960 and consisted

of

several anti-CASTRO groups.

The FRD was formed as a

political action, propaganda and military unit.

Initial

actions consisted of extensive radio and printed propaganda,

demonstrations, and trips throughout the Hemisphere to gain

support for the fight against CASTRO.

The FRD also functioned

as the front organization for recruiting the members of

the Bay of Pigs invasion force and carried out a massive

program of social assistance to Brigade 2506 members in

training camps and their families.

Although

the FRD head-

quarters were based in Miami, delegates were assigned to

other areas which included New Orleans,

Louisiana,

Tampa,

Florida,

and Mexico City, to gather intelligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee

activities.

2.

In late 1960 or early 1961 the CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIL (CRC)

was formed to coordinate and direct FRD

activities and this group was headed by Agency and White

House sponsored Dr. Jose MIkO Cardona, assisted by Manue.

ARTIME and Dr. Antonio VARONA.

Both the FRD and the CRO

continued to function until October 1961 when the FRD was

completely absorbed by the CRC in order to avoid the confusion

resulting from duplication of personnel, activities and

funding.

The CRC also had direct access to President

Kennedy and top White House aides.

Because of the magnitude

of the FRD and CRC operations and

the Agency participation

in the activities and funding of the groups, a large number

Of JWAVE and Headquarters were directly involved with both

FRD and CRC personnel.

SOCHET

---

