# 104-10167-10446

## Page 1

104-10167-10446

SECRET

Disg tang

5 Jannary 1y62

Overtzs lecotnts

I ella.

1.071-) - In july 1560, Hoadquartars sarised ETition

that subjet milt to aldea maid bo travaling to Parlas

to manage the post of jary inist la the fRI inractorato end tiga

assistance man roquetca.

routin difficulties falloud

Including Do furains by lia i5i nEll firally la August 19i0 tha

Ltatica La to divance Findo i=t inbject a Gus edupanion

Inclodino 1150 each roguirei dy lio consulate as ardesce ol

Tara 1o no incitania in the tlice es to Hrathor

Chis 1300 mao to bo scroused in a sudis arranss or shotber de

was to ba repayodo Hostar, cinca lat tina, Mulfi has jacose

& BOCUTILY TIBI

ão in condidared an oftcranist usd associates

with reoria nith sten luziù sádna Do contace.

Cae of thase

indiridaalo is dascribed as moding caly de eligatost axcuss to

naio puillo statesento catserracing and taratal to illnt, intoreto.

Accordinzio, 1l 18 recontaniso lat lais aivanco do triller off:

without alismptine to secure ropagaaat.

B5ALIel - Mando mera passed to licalinl by tha principal

ezent for ana in the kitil pro;sct. joversr, as conventional:

political action on the lever frout lecasta sure and sore alíiícalt,

Lhase fois nisco tkeir vey incrasingly into ito iMP liar choat since

RSCSL1-1 sas Inticuzi coatiner to this cranimatica imlly,

the talking ovar of the laos sorerent oy the cocsunists laft so noad

opan to orposition alaserts escapi thai of easctago and clanoaline

activily. In April 1901, Gorion illindlin, principal agont vich Mcca

McAll-l sas in cortect das artasted and altisstuly daported There

van Do farbor contact vita kail fallodes ta arrast of aIstlas.

The funds list had boil isosad to his esto frasuably nood by lto lAP

arrant the end of captaster liti iccorcuriio, ni/lFA-PiCP 10

roguistlng that tha run of jiui.al charged siainet the asent bei

mittor off voth becaaso si, luoda vary unccalevaly expeadad of the

MAP under round 1a furbarace di anti mastro oujactives and bocaine

AliAlIna Lissolt la eller cond or in prison and accounting cEn

Charusor bot be sacred.

SECRET

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

SECRE.

LUNa CONTI lENSrO and older Cubans.. The ples called for the te

OS DINI LEs's pluse pilorad by biE. This ves charcod stoR 16 MaS

fourat lo to too difficalt to gut tho sacessary paraits for tha plane.

Bert, DIlI and ¿ChIs more foing comercially, fit paither vented to

ba sponsesad ostonably by the fiu. Finally, CT rest alone when

DIAz ballod at airply balag outta sinadon.

roanties, DIli Lane had

begua to dabale astonaivaly in arila politica in Misi, appeared

bolore a congreshional casailita aid Evocandal la sailag bineale

unless as a propozenda anost. 'ádis vas nor la contact and lige

Anally contidarat 1t profarablo sot to roguest contact vith lin to

try to collect the estance. Is vior of tha sabsoquant tino 10100,

1t la rocomondod tbat tie advanca be miston ofi.

Stannerd Lo Short

C/T/b/PA PROP

(5 Jan 62)

WT/4/PA-PROPsKFareythe de

Distribations

Orig & 1 - Addresses

1 - WH/L/PA- PROP

1 - 11/4/EegiEtry

I.- 201 files

SECRET

---

