# 104-10186-10216

## Page 1

104-10186-10216

-WAONAGION

EMORN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Bora 1E3 and 1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DIS5EM

ine of the tapiocaee Lers Til

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNICT FelAs Rafael LNU,

allas "Alberto"

and ElVa LNU, aliaa "Elisa"

DAN DISEL

CC1-316/00430-68

& February 1963

NO. PACK?

REFERENCET

CS-311/0011564

(page 8)

8 July 1964

DATE OR

INFO

1964

PLACe a Harhington,

DATE ACO. JanUATY 1965

FELD RECIN NO

"MIS 1S UNEVALUATED MORATION

ASE E CONTENI ES VENTANVES

SOUChA former Cuban IS officer no served with the Cuban Intelligence

Sorice until April 1964.

Icadquarters Commenta

The following report is ons of a meries containing personality

Information provided by the source and inclades supplemental

Information from the recores of this Agency.

It is requested that the andresscer take no actlon on any of

the individuals mentloned in the personality reports without

Contral Processing Sectiol (Tramites) for the Departmento de

Liberacion Nacional (Natir al Liberation Department - LN) of

the Direccion General de Jiteligencla (General Directorate of

He corries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry.

2. Felix Rafael INU 1: a Cuban citizen, born about 1926,

and

probably comes from santia jo de Cuba.

He is about flve fect

five

inches tall, weighs about '20 or 125 pounds, and has a small '

build.

le has a white com lexion; small black slanted eyes;

* small nose, mouth, and e in; white even leeth; large protruding

ears; a thin

face; and a sall head. His hair is black and he

wears 1t in & long crew cu. He alno wears dark rimed glasses.

Felix Rafael INU 1: married to Elva LYU, allas "Ellea,"

and they have twin boys whe were born in about April or May

1964 (Elva was on maternity leave in April 1964).

ElVa LU

is a Cuban citizon and was norn about 1938.

She

is approximately

Ilve feet five Inches tall, weighs between

115 and 120 pounds,

and has a thin build.

She

sas a white complexion; short,

straight, blond hair; ligh' colored eyes; even white teeth;

1

I DIA

REP

S :

CRE T

TADAY

NO FI:EIGN DISSEN

CISCLANT

CINCSO 5

I ося

FBI 2

INFORMATION

REPO

INFORMATION

REPORT

CLÁE

+ 1.11

311E

AlL/SuiCI

TOTALS NIl/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA

RID

1

iLX- 2236

IX 2267)

JLX 2268 IX 2290

NO PROJECT (AN!:UGY1)

1 316/0643005

DLS:LD: Awk

C1044

620.

4/pV

---

## Page 2

14-00009

SECRET

50 FOREIGN DISSEM

C: CI 31600430-65

a sall mouth; and a the face,

Elvá hus an extromely

1. Elva LIN to also empired by the DGI (see reles ince)

and her

salary la $176 per anti- Se cartles a carnet of the Cuban Ministry

of Interior.

3. Pells Riel M and Hiv WU rent a hope at Sith Street, No. 4118,

between hint ant Firt Streets, Marlano, Habana, Cuba. Their telephone

munber 1s 22-27701

Headquarters Cummext

lo The records of tte Agery reveal no identifiable informatlol

SEERLI

SO FORZIGN DISSE

---

