# 104-10077-10320

## Page 1

104-10077-10320

Ma/3/Mextco E INpEXI

5944:

'S Dec Í963

ÖEND INTEX

TO FILE NICE GIE NO.

43 SECRET

JMWA VE

MEXICO CITY

19-500

7 Dec 63 00

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WH. 00

ISG CEM

SPOUTRE

209

/OPS, CI/JA, FI, OPSER, SAS E

WAWS SXI

INFO

REF: MIXI 7201 (IN 71903)*

PBRUMEN COMO

C1 087619

1: GENERAL PRESISS FORDOS SHIRE COLNTES OPBRATIONS

ADOTTED UPON KATARLISSNENI TASK FORCE N ANNUNGS ADOL WAS

THAT ALL FIELD STATION WOULD EXPLOIT PEBUKEN OPFRATIONAL

pORTERITES LAD TANIS PERUN AGENTS. THIS VAS DRLIBERATE

KUDOVE DECISION TO REDUCE EXTRAORDIARY EPEISE AND DIFPICULTY

IMPLICIT IN OPS EBLIC EXCLUBIVILY HANDLED BY CHNTRALIZED

OPERATING UNIT. CARE OUTICKS, AGENT OR. CONTACT OPFRATIONAL

TRAVEL HUST ER CONSISTENT WITH THIS POLICY AND SHOULD BE

UNDERTAKEN VISH IT IS THS ONLT OR CLEARLY BEST MAY TO

INITLATE OR HANDLE OPERATION.

2. THUS WHILE IS RECoGNIZE THE PROBABILITY Of HSCEPTIONs.

XT IS IDAS INTENTION THAT THE NAXI PERUKEN OPS GROUP GANERALLY

THE AGENTS

VILL RECRUIT AND HANDLE, IN ITS ARRA, RECARDLESS OF SOURCE

ORIGINAL IRAD OR UNETHER OR HOT POTENTIAL IS POB AGIAT INSIDE

CUBA:..!Y AGENT RADIO TRAINING IS REQUIRED FOR RETHER ACEUTA

TRAINED BY UNRI DE JIVATE ASESTE PRATETTIEG DESI, SON TELLS

88C&3T

8a: 6006: 4.:8.-

PEPRODUCTION BY OTHER, IMAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRQHUBITEO

12

10857

---

## Page 2

14-00000

O11

ExT

D INDEX

DJ NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILL NO

BICIST

ROUTING

141

Man 53

392rs

11

DINERPIN

ROUTINt

PARE TUC

•INI

CITE DOI

TO IS SUPPORTED BY JANAVE RADIO FACILITIAS, COMMO TRAINI!

97618

OFFICHAS STATIÚNED AI FATE SIRLS DE INES, IN TITURE CANTE

WHIRE COUTIMUINE CONTACT VITE ACHIYU IS TO BE IN MISTOO,

OPERATION NORMALLY WILL EE HANDLED EN MEXI. SAVE SUPPOR

MAI OOCABJONALLS IS ME

TED.

3. IN ISPOTTING HEN LADS MUCH I

ARLIVES TEBY SIST

CLIVIS SINVITO SA CHINES SETTE LAYA HOTTEN MEAN DRAIDA

LI INITIAL NESBROS, CUNTIASTI, 1Z3, I LICHS DR SPECIAL.

CIDCURTAICES, MAY WISE HAVE MAHILE CITATE CASES.

4. IN APPLYING ABOVE GIVERAL RULES IDDS HONES MAINTAIN

DORIS O MENELLITY WICH VILL FIT KIRE NOT OU TARGETS

VITE SPID AND EVICIENCY, TITH NO LORS IN COO

DIATION.

BHD OF MIRANG

TH OT:

zested figs palley on

Cpu.

3(1 ARt)

BAS/MOB

1131512

C.

die.

388211

BPRODUCTON MY OTHER THAT THE

IS THE 5 PROMISE.

26 2e4

10857

---

