# 104-10418-10150

## Page 1

(104-10418.10750]

OLC #78-3591

19 December 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR

Chief/CI Staff/DIDO

Attn:

Julian Fox

Chief/SE Division/DDO

Attn:

SUBJECT

:

NOSENKO Related Material (U)

1. During the course of the House Select Conmittee

on Assassinations investigations.

various files relating

to the Nosenko case were provided by your offices for

HSCA staff to review at Headquarters.

These files arc

identified by subject in the attached listing.

are currently in my custody in Room 6D5317, OIC/HSCA.

2. Please review this listing and identify those

files

which

were provided by your

where the files came from the outside,

officehose which

or in cases

should

• *

properly be stored in your custody, and arrange to retrieve

the files. (U)

3. Much of this material may be soon requested by

FOlAers.

All of this material is covered by an agrecment

setween the DCI and Congress which requires that it be

retained, imtact, for a period of 30 years.

So, do not.

alter the files in

any manner after you have retrieved

them until we have decided

upon a course of

action to

fulfill this archival commitment.

That decision should be

reached prior to the end of March 1979 and will probably

involve

the copying of the entire file for archival purposes

after which the originals can be returned to active use. (U)

malage on

Attachment

12022

---

## Page 2

13-00000

lolder entitled - Attachment it to the Questions on loscolo& (wale

submitted on May 19, 1978 - Nosenko & Oswald Activities

in 1967. (al comperrison)

Material Received from Anbassador Dobrynin Rolating to Oswald

111 files (Information) on a Purported MVD or KGB Jacility in Minsk

Folder entitlted Nosenko (Material in Deryabin Safe)

Golitsyn - Vols. I, II, III & IV (201-99788)

Kara Patnitzky - Waldemar Boris - (201-114188;

File folder entitled Defectors - Nosenko (w/Tab I)

Case of Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko - Vol. I, pages 1-84 (Parts I, II, III, & IV

"?: "

Vol II, pages 85-318 (Part V)

Vol III, pages 319-602 (Part VI) : •

Vol IV, pages 603-835 (Part VI, VIII, IX)

AEDONOR/OSWALD

74.a5

Nosenko Interrogation, Reel #1, 12, H3, 20 July 1965

Items from Nosenko Study. (1968) in Response to HSCA Request, 29 March 1978

Loose file - Peter Deryabin Material on Nosenko

Hart Report

CIA Study - "Conclusions & Comments in the Case of Yuriy Ivanovich Noscnko

Copy #1 - 1 October 1968

The Examination of Bona Fides of KGB Defector - February 1968

Bruce Solie's 26 Page Report - OS 8-114/A re Nosenko

Deryabin Reports on Interrogation of Nosenko

• Golitsyn re Nosenko 1969

AB Case 4361 - Analysis of "Oswald" Lotter

KGB Personalities in the Minski Area - 12 May 1977

Meno dated 19 September 1977 for D/FBI from DDO - Subject Lee Harvey Oswald

Memo for the Record - dated 12 May 1977 - Subject:

KGB Personalitics in

the Minsk Arca

Manila Envelope containing Miscollaneous documents & two tapes - withi

Notation - Committee Exhibits

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Paper entitled - Tab I - Nosenlo

Statement on the bona fides of the Soviet delector Juriy Ivanovich Nosenko

(prepared by CI Staff - derived from John L. Hart Study)

Paper entitled - PETR SERGEYEVICH DERYABIN

Paper entitled - ANATOLIY MIKIAYLOVICH GOLITSYN

Nubio Duty mene, Seaurity to the medy: sassa 79 October 1075,

I soft files entitled - Oswald's Contacts with the Cuban and

Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. Contacts given in their order

of occurence

Docunent from 835 page study - Dezyabin on Noserlio

Envelope containing miscellaneous handwritten & typed notes on

Nosenko

---

