# 104-10219-10120

## Page 1

104-10219-10120

EviL. D

SECRET

LEO AHAM PORS CI/OPS/SovSat

AT TATION

:70Y.

* Mr. Miler

8.

WEll Franquiet

1. On the afternoon of 28 Citner 1959, Jane Roman saled ne

whether we harl any addressed for TI PAran in the "nitod States.

She Irilcated that Mr. Fagich was Interested in thin and that the

FBI miaht want to consiver aurveiilance of T/l in the lS, at any

place siere no was inous to ua to be.

One of the reasons for such

sirvelliance would te to check on the poesibility of fraud on hia

part.

?.

"To infurnistlon which folliva has been taien irca the tapes

ut the s unversations between T/l asa the Brorist. Leni case officer.

I! ¡l is incomploto, 18 10 nepertholess the best we can dos

Some of the people shoe T/l ampecta to see on the

dest Coast turing the apurocinale perlod 27 Getober le y

28 6 lovenber 1959 aren

Santa Monica; Califo

Naval Or nance jert Station, Inina lake, Callf.

/l a 30 planned to spend a in al: Death Talley, Calife, nut

die rue. know in acvanes where ho would be stayin.

On i or é lorenher ho will return to wenhineton an.!

prohably alaying a' the roger saith Hotel.

118008.898

tel survofllare of gotel mirht pleb up our care offleas ur

others in contare with hia, hence rould le indesireble.)

After 9 Novenber Th wall suy bich his friend,

In ven York "1ºyo Corlog'e adireas 18.108 lenom to 118

at this time, but ean be provida.

The New York Metropolltan

Ar ga

"niertone tireclory liate uniy one

an.! he

Bronx

"1.8.

SECRi I

---

## Page 2

SECRET

3.

Wien somoct to the practicality or misuum ul surveillence,

no feel that to FBI declalon anould ve made after due regara to the

conalderation already sado: knom to then in cornection its the

senitoring of te New York City phase of te operat-un.

The pros

and cons voiid seen to be the san. A for una possibility of fraud,

no are inclined to doube that tA vould be temprod in thia direction.

Ho was. told by his cano officer that he must bo prepared to outline

to tle

Soviet case

officer in convining fashion and in s-tall

every

@ort he men to ala

the requirements given nim.

äurthermore,

on

he

the casta of past performance ve bellere he

1a truthful in what

tello us as far as thie operation 1a concerned.

However,

In the

opinion of the case orficer, Lt is not unlike hin • in arictly

porsonal mattors - occastonally to araggrrate 18 hle on recutation

would be orhanced thereby.

Te lo problenatie whether this tendency

woidd ever extend to outright deceit.

In the intereste of constatoney, l tnough: thia reply to

Sire. lowan ought to be channeled through you.

Wo would approciate hearing fron the burear what decigion

they mute regarcing surveidlance of Th.

CrIB. & 1. - C1/0PS/80v8at

• CI/L5t

---

