# 104-10172-10140

## Page 1

104-10172-10140

SECRET

ยก PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANUA FOR: Chie:, TW

Atta:

03

AttniRalph Tobiassen

C-87172

BU@JICT

AMDENIN/1

REFERENCE: Your Negorandum, Dited

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of thia Subject

set fortb below..

A Provisional Operational Approval Issued by CI Staff grants the same

suthority, on a teaporary basis, for the use of an Individual as the authority

granted in an Operational Approval unless otterise spectfled by CI/OA. It le

hares, however,

only on preliminary file crecks and inveotigation and Is sub-

jest to a furtier final review when all investigation la completed.

ACA Is reinstated for (90) days until 29 January 1963. No OA can ba isaued

until TFW submits a PRQ I upon which SO can base as meaningful investigation.

Further, noting Subject!s employment, sot forth in PRQ II, CI/OA mist be

notified that coordination has been completed.

Full nothied.

RETURN TO CA

Beckground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

รทF6A 6139

201-251853

To process tbe Operational Approval, full Information (completed PRQ

Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than s1x

(6) ecaths fron this date.

An Operational Approval will follow when all.

Iniestigation Is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRO Parte I

and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested D1-

visioos ceases.

tal tianse Carril?, AT.

naded trans actami

Sachsandication

APRON AL

DATE

CI/PERATIONAL APFROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

7098 125 000 000

SECRET

29 October 1962 mr

---

## Page 2

22 Dotober 2969

: ANDEI 1 6-87172

id farta?.

-202-233, 5pt

---

