# 104-10161-10255

## Page 1

104-10161-10255]

6-4343

SECRET

1 0 0CT 1966

64. 43987

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahere

1. This memorandum suggests action by the Director of

Central Intelligence. Such action is contained in Paragraph 9.

2. The Chief, Western Hemisphere Division has recommend-

ed that subject be granted permanent residence in the United States

under the terms of Section 7 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act

of 1949, as amended. (See Tab A)

3. The Chief, Western Hemisphere Division states that sub-

ject has served this Agency since his defection in April 1964, in

providing voluminous, accurate and valuable information on the

organization of the Cuban Intelligence Services, their operations,

staff members and agents. He has been, is being and will continue

to be used to effect refruitment and defection of members of the Cuban

Intelligence and

Services. Through resettlement in the

United States he will continue to be of considerable value to this Agency

in the future.

4. The Alien Affairs Officer advises the subject cannot enter the

United States through normal immigration procedures because of his

service in the General Directorate of Intelligence, the Cuban external

intelligence service, so that subject could not obtain permanent resi-

dence in the United States at this time except under the terms of Sec-

tion 7.

5. Investigations abroad and within the United States, including

a favorable polygraph examination, and the successful operational mis-

sions performed by the subject have established his bona fides. There

is no information which would preclude favorable action in the recom-

mendation for Section 7 action.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatio

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6. The General Counsel is of the opinion that this case comes

within the purview of Section 7 of the CIA Act of 1949, as amended,

and the intent of Congress,

and has so indicated by affixing his sig-

nature to this memorandum.

7.

The Deputy Director for Plans concurs in the recommenda -

tion of the Chief, Western Hemisphere Division and has so indicated

by affixing his signature to this memorandum.

8. In compliance with Part II, Paragraph 6(a) 7 and 8 of Section

50-1 of the Headquarters Regulation, the Western Hemisphere Division

will have primary responsibility for subject.

9. There has been prepared for your signature the attached let-

ter to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization. (See Tab

B)

Director of,

ecurit

CONCURRENCE:

110 1966

Date

dar

A. Deputy Director for Plans

13 021. 66

Date

did he

SECRET

---

