# 104-10186-10175

## Page 1

104-10186-10175

INFORMATION REPORT

INF

ORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SE CR

E T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRYCuba

CS CI-316/00741-65

SUNECT "Vidalina" (an alias)

16 February 1965

1

GET RNTC CIA

Bay wound bau Only

To val preproduce

CS-311/00115-64

(page 2)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

TNIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF COI

NT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A forner Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personate thro

information provided

by the source and includes supplementay

information from the records of this Agency,

enground Use

Not Reproduce

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

• "Vidalina" is the secretary to Manuel PINEIRO Losada

at the Headquarters office of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence • DGI).

born

about 1930.

125 pounds, and has a medium bulla.

a lin believed by our to stain cano as

feet seven

and her hair is brown with some grey.

"Vidalina" Is the wife of "Contreras" (an allas), head

of the Laboratorio Quinico (Chomical Laboratory - LO) of the MI

Department (Department of Technical Operational Support) In the

Headquarters Comment

1. The

records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information:

on "Vidalina."

5

1

STATE

I DLA

REP

ARMY

CISCLANT

I NAW

CINCSO #

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES SUX

TA1a

- INSA

I&YS

T oce

I FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORTS

INFORMATION RERORT

NIL'SA/FOBINE 5/8

CILLIA

ICUREA

1L LE

' LE

had MASH

BIDLAY

JI KAVE

IX 2362

FGA 1944501417.16:

NO PROJECTAVLU

CSC1-316. 0012 05

CORDIAATING. NELLAHA

TOTALIATi/SA & (1), NE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

19-5-1

TORS SO

YIBR

---

