# 104-10220-10001

## Page 1

104-10220-10001

INTERNAL

1LD. COMFIDENTIAL,

DO SECRETE

О..

RaRerE Made Bxi

Distribaelon:

Эд вору во:

App dilies taster

• Washington w/m.:. sod Att

Embasay w/o ate O: ally 8o:

Defense, Logal Attache n/o att

1 - Santiago de Cuba w/att

2 - Files w/att

home can fal

None

ВОЧЕСЕ СКУРВОПУ

Source, OperationdliDals, and Commenta:

Rele

NOT SUITABLE FOR MICROFILM

SUBJECTE Sagando Frente Nacional del Locabray

Station Commentar

323162

source offered to arrange a meek's tom of the Iscanbray for any observer.

He lonnod the Station

what was purported to be an pfficial STIE document entitled: ¿Que Be I1

Il Frento Incional Del Esoubray? (What 1s the Second lational Froat of

the Escambray?) fron which the information in paragraph 11 maa taken.

Verifar copies of the document are attached for Headguarters, Base

Satingo do Cuba and Station 11l00.

I, please oard all names spoonring in thie roport.

Source he been asaigned a "C" rating on the basis of Station contaot

with him for over a year.

.. 1.

to tea teleilain consensation weth

accept content a mccal che

Lace deluni

"Jess for techie

GIARGED FROM IP/CRS

Jers art

BIISCARIONSECRET

ERSAGED FROM RID/#

CRAS A Catal REM FOR

91-98

19-9-8

245156

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

a Cempletety retable

A lisuait petratite.

Do A asset relate

l# 8 991-8910

(Applied to sniperpd or luniferdaarlo

sosterl soupread

ATTRAISAA DE CONTENT

false.

8. Contemad bu other edesentent end reliabro 8r8a8e 2, Prodel Pree. & Mossist, free.

6 Cannot be poderd,

Nrumitory, Based on origasal document.

& LAmbllu!

S-E-C-R-E-T

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba

REPORT NO.

Segundo F'rento Nacional del Becambray DATE OF REPORT

NO. OF PAGES

REFERENCES

HKJ-2752

30 Ocçober 1958

DATE OF

INFO.

27 October 1958

PLACE &

DATE ACO

Cuha, Habana

29 October 2958

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTINT IS TENTATIVE.

NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE,

Cais Ipader ln Habana who has just rolumed tre a 30-day tour or to

Sierta Escumbray (C)

Appraloal Of Contents Paragraphs 1-10 s 33

Paragraph 11 & Documentary

Rebel forces In the Sierm Escambray, Province of Las Villas, now consist

of one major force of a bout 1,400 man and tro uinor forces of about 100

and I6h man ench.

The major force, which calls 1teall the Segundo Frente

Macional del Escambray (SFNE, Second National Front of the Escambray),

conilato of fomer studente, members of the Organisacion Autontion (04,

Authentlo Organtzation, follovere of Carlos PRIO,. former president of Cuba),

und membera of the Partido dal Pueblo Cubano (Ortodozo), Including follow.

ers of Enillo OCHON.

Organisational detalle of the SFVE are given in

paregraph 11 belor.

The tao minor groupa are the Directorio Revolualon

ario (DR, Revolutlonary Direotorate, & atudent ravolutionary organiza

ton) with about 100 men under Rolando CUBELA Secades.

and the 26 of

July Revolutionary Movenent with 16ls men under Ernesto "Che" GUEVARA. 3

2o The SINE membar see themsulves as the inter to the threat posed by the

26 of July movement.

• While they destro to see BATISTA and his clique

driven out, they are not astrindata and would co-operste with the Cuban

Army toward the accomplatment of this end. Although there are many

nati BATISTA persona within the Cuban Army, the SFNS 18 not la direos

touch with any notlve conspirtore therein at the present time.

IS a

litary junt vere to be fermed to oust BATiSIA, however, the SENS

vocid cooperate with that junta. With regard to SINE DR relations,

the SINE cannot become identifled with the DR DoCause of CUSELA'a

invairaent in the assasaination of Colonel Antonio BLANCO R100 In 1956?

and the consequent effect this might have on SINE-Cuban Amy relationa.

3.

The SFNS occupies a territorial sone of great potential strategie

importanso. Given suiticient ars, they bolleve that they could cause

• governent erials in Habana by seizing and holaing Las VIllas Prov-

Lace, thereby cutting off Habana frota it& mala sourcos of supply In laa

Villas, Canaguey, and Oriente Provinces.

S-E-C-A-E-T

DISTRIAMON

51331

36 Out 51.

---

## Page 3

Lo The SINE malfors from a serious shortage of arms and amunition.

Approximately 7CO nen have Italian cartloes and a very fer heavy neapons

such as Jornion autonallo rifles and Thusjeon subnachine,una.

mmaloder of, the men havo aldoame.

The

The cartines were furnimhod by

Carlos PRIO fron previously vlading as caches in Cuba.

The SINE.

has about $100,900 cash avallable In the Unlead States to bug arma but

lhey are reluctant to chance loainy, the arna to U.S. authoritlea, who

have already coired some attempted shipmento.

The Siis suspecte that

the 26 or J0ly Horeont may have beerras; onsible for such agfures by

"alpping off" the l. B. nuthorities.

5.

The SINE 1e Lecinz a atralegio criste. Eecause of the arm and antu

nition shortaze they must nocessarily restrict the scope of theis mill

lary notivilles.

Thie means that as the 2b of july force under GU'EVArA

begins to zet organized and to recolve live full support of the intorna

elonal 26 of July orpanizalion, they 111l be ablo to maintain a much

higher level of niltury achivity than thit of the SEtt.

tually result In a deteriorallon of STN% norale and In the domination

of the Escambray by GUEVAlA. The S7il estimtes that this will tako

place before tig end of January 1959. They have told IHIO of this

sitution and are urging him to send arme and amundiion as soon as

possible.

To Ch obers of the SINI are sending about 30 personal

lottera to Fi:10 urdos, hla support.

6

BefOre GUETAIL'a arTIval In the Sierra Rocantray Verd was á contin-

sent of aboar 150 sympathizers of the 26 of July opersting in that

ares. About hull of these have joined TrIVIA's forco, bringlar 1t

to Joh men, the renainder have stryed with the SFNE.

QUIVARA a forco

1a well equipped with automatic weapons.

The anount of his present

supplies in not kown.

He arrived ulth a supply train of 70 mules.

There are no air etrips in his area, and the ooly may his supplies can

be augented is by alt drop.

The SPie, on the other hand, controle four a1r stripa and can control

on demand a certain section of the coset hirimmy between Clonfuegos and

Trinidad. Any of these can be used by Ko, aircraft. No air shipmonta

of ams or anualtion have been received by the SiNE as yet, although

around early October they hald the highas strip for five days avalting

such a flight. The Ill has received one air drop of Thompson submachine.

guns, but nost of these were broken under the impact of the drop.

8. It coste epproximately $2,000 a day to maintais the fighting force

of the SFNe..

Most of this money is raised by taxes on the Esoambray

coffee harvesto Some financial and material ald comes fron Habana

fran the paraguardle (rearguard), as these SilE supporters oall the

selves.

The silt bas a small medical capartzent consiating of about

two doctors, two dentisto, and several mursee.

They also have a

shortrave transitter valued at about $1, 000.

The SFNE receives

Ittle aid fron abroad, where the 26 of vuly movement dominates al

upport activities.

The SYNE has lIttle political Ideology.

Ita Mighting creed 18 "Llberty».

Justtco, Desperacy, the Constitutica of "L0, and the Lone Star."

than create another flag as did the 26 of July movement, the SiNE pres

fers to serain the Cuban barner with 148 single star.

10.

The SFNE has completely controlled the probles of Comminiss in 1ta

zone, There are only to self-acuitled coniete, to have been

alongeide Unt organisation.

The request sas made through tour self-

adaitted Corunista ubq resided in the Escarbray zone,

2 800 -

9-f=

---

## Page 4

3-L-CER-E-T

The SINs le organised into seven ruerrilla forces totaling about 1,000

men and one tratning camp of açout 400 men. Set forth below to the:.

organisational aid personnel breaklowns.

High Cor

Major Willla Alexander MORGAN

Sargent

(5) | Captata Rafaol DARRIGA

Terrilla Conmandert

Gormander-In-Chies

Delogate General

Chief of Organisatiön

Politieal Advisor

Secretary of Donovad Stafs

raJor: Anast 41816 CARDENAS

Major

Plinio TRIETO

Major

Jesus CARRERA, I abroad)

Detachment Comandere

Captain Manuel ZABALO

taLA

Hariberto ARCL

AbOli CAMACHO Peres

Randro LORENZO

Cresenato CUMERANE?

onquin- RODRIQUEZ

Angel BANOS:

- LORO Cobrera

to DONZALEZ

ICHE?

• PIEDRI

ERNANDES,

* BOMBIND

ADENA

SORI

110 Captain

(91 Captain Julie MARTIN

Juntor offloerp

It. Osear ERE Pere!

Arigol| RODRIQUEZ

-Bar ardo ISAIAS:

Jose Ger ardo (RANGEL

Adan LopEz

Andres (OONTAN Dealin

Jose PACIN':

Wilfredol Pila

Luts VARGAS

Marcelol DIAZ Consales

* Ф

Juldo A,4 NUNP Cabada

JOSe A. SCARCIA Aguilar

Carlos) COMEZ M111an

11

.73a:

30 04/50

19. 911

19-2 8)

---

## Page 5

SINE

5-E-G-R-R-T

- L.

E8EЗЗEEE

It.

Sergio MONTES DE OC

Lto

Into

Einino ( HERREILA

Car los fREYFDIOS

Ito

FE

Feriin ANADOR Rodrigues

Hial ALBA

EVe LLOTMARTiNEZ

fier

an Delegation Conora

(1)

(DT.) Armando MAlFLEITS DIAG

Delegate Generas

Aurel10/ NAZARIO SayEent

(3)

National

Coordinator

Lo. Provinolal, Départiental ard Porelgn Delogations.

?. Internal Committos for Non-Hlitary Hattere.

the Disciplinary court.

1. genitery Departaento

Captata Joao MIRANI

Commandiar. Officer

Exocutive Orfloer.

Jo Durem of Prees and Propagende,

Commanding Offee

ligation and Infornation,

(2)\ CeptalnHauer orag

14 Depertiont os Suppl

(2) (Captela Jose CORDERO

•Do Guertormaster Coneral

(2) Captal Honorto MACE

Pornans

une archeer

Com andine Ortiaot

(1) (Captaln RegIno ) CAMACHO-

O, Corpe.of Meusoneso

Commanding 01f101

Do Dopartuent of spetneers

Commanding Offtoer.

comoral Telnkag Camp

2) (Captati enty FUERTE

pa " Argelino")

• (2):

ersonnel Hondgartera

(2) Coral 30 E

: 3-3-6-8-B-8

$ 14

Commanding offler

Brecutive

offiser.

conde on (4457

19:9-1

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-R-ET

- So

Field Cormes

'.'

1.

Top Ortodoxo leader, well known for his oppudition activities

against LATISTA

Former student who participated in the assassination 1n 1956 of

2.: colonél. Antonio alico Ico. tomer Chier of tin Servicio de

Intoligancia (SIM, Cuban Military Intelligence Service)e

3.

Argentina medical doctor and 26 of July troop cornander who was

reported by a lairly rellable source. on & October 1y58 to hate

reachod as Villas Province in a successful drive from the

Sierra Maestra in Oriente Frovince.:

Lo GUTIERREZ and MORGAN have several tinea bean reported as leaders

- of rebel groups in the Sierra Escambray MORGAN 10 a U. S.

citizen ánd reportedly a Korean war veteran,

So Armardo M. FLEITES Diaz, former medical student in the University

of Habana:

FLFITES has a long record of revolutlonaryaetlvities

and left Habana for exile In Mexico on 25 August 1958..

O• Menber of the Nationa,, executive Committee of the Lartido del

Puablo Cubano (Ortodoxo) (Cuban People'a Party-Orthodox)..

7. Possible reference to Alfredo PENA, mentioned as a guerrilla

chief in the Sierre-Escambrey In the June 1958 time of 12 de

Marzo; official organ of the DR.

8: Probable reference to Lazaro Jogguin APPOLA, Poimer atident of

connerce who wus arrested in 1956 on charges of planning an

assault agatnot Cuban Army Inotallations In Camaguey,

Probable

reference to Anastato CARDEVAS Avila, reported Jo

the

Habapa press on 4 March 1950 to be commanding a rebel croup In

10.

Probable reference to Plinto PRIETO Ruis, fellably reported In

May 1958. as an Of meaber who aigned a declaration to the Cuben

people announcing the opening of a second front.

21.. Probable reference to Jesus CARRERAS, reported la the June 1958

Lone of 22 de Marzo to be la the Sierra Lecambray.

12.

Possible reference to loger BODRIQUEZ Sanches, reported in tha

Habana press on 2h June 195l as a University of Habana todent

who was acquitted with eight other atudente of charges of pabite

disorder In the Unlversity, One Roger RODRIGUEZ signed & protes

1s 1955 against the Cuban and Quitemalan dictatorchipe:

J1.

19: 9-1

---

## Page 7

63-21° Tenta Hagional del coudisonas, ropromenta encualtado un bil

solidado y viorarlgo, oun coulaso do vastíalras sonas do, ooper paris eni stu

pos sontaños de santi-spírino, trialdad y clonruaioo in, LA/speta contral

do la Tala do Guba, La diroo0lda ból1oa del Zacanbras orta aljeta fas datido -

Mayus radlondo on la Cordillora, organiano que alnbara outro el propão terrano

sa ostratozid y la sáatloe a soguer on cada oporrunidad, la comendaiala y Jose-

bura adelas del alina osté en unnos dol joTon y braro cobatiento, ear OUTIS-

BERL MAYOYO, y L0 jacunden los COMAndanted USARO ARHOYO, ANDULO CARDENAS.

¿LOUS CARHERA, DR. ARMANDO FISITAS DIAZ (DelagAdo Denoral CITI))e HTLLIAN DO -

SUPGAT, PLISIO PRITO RUIZ (aOTuALMEnTO DOLAÇadO en el ENtrARIaTO) y ALPREDO •

Palillio

Ro prosipo señalar que bajo la jurladiasión de outo Batado Mayos, ostén

¡mujatos BRo banaTo do osiolalo0, pao han obtanido sus sosportitos prados pas

Jos sá51tos adquiridos en las sonas do operacionos del 1I Frento Melonal del

Saomibray. Con el erado de depitla y joro do dancesanto, adaton lo0 alfilen

nazare artola:

coo- Manial Zebajo, keriderço irco, Abel Carobo téras, Railro Lorenzo, Oron

oono1o Ginarenas, dongala Bodriger, angol sanos, Lain laord debrore, pslibos.

to donedles, mariguo pota, donó sinatos, Bouardo repara, notado seriador rou

metile, Loonardo de

sino, zarael cedena, Roberte

part, sonardo peros, Donde

anosa y audio Merciona y con ol erado de nataoi o ree dietas

sel sadisguos, cerardo selea, doad derardo sanguales, iden Lopos, anardo contán

acere, Joed peola, ulisrado résos, Lula Vargao, Meroolo Dles Donzáros, Jal1o 1o

Meños Casadai Joel di darata souizar, Carlos admos M11lo, Jorgio Monero de e

0a, Iloino ferrara, Carlos Periodios, Ininal Peros, Parida Amedor Rodrígos, -

MeRO Alba, Stollo MadRes y Ado Strenes Nigh

La Delogialda deneral ciril de voto runto ante conátituida por un dologs

1O ONU O1 DE, AMANDU MIRIT3 DIAZI un Coordinador Feelonal, FoRsI!

por los dietintão Deloçado rotinotalas y dopartamantos mason al elesas una

DolOgeMón on el ExtrinjorO y us CaíltÓ InternO para fUnOlí no MILItA. 1I DE.

Postas Dias, adriaãu do corospalar cabalzente de sosponsablo cargo, tresaja en

pardentos lo on el Depertamento sanltarlo, atondlesto a la poblealia espaalsa

de Sodas las s00as.

-O0IIIE0 I DISCITI

19-9-8) 1

---

## Page 8

sa"In montañosa del Sur do las !lina, penetraron de

ti 70 7900 -

de la organización y la ido entinta disciplina. A el letogeda pegarona

a dietar an rogimanto o "' "

" trado.

#: 57789990121

dos do lEa soldados da la NoVia

aldn, no condistigó us Iribunal Disciplinarto, encerzado a Conda'" rosal-

TOS SÓDICO tOdOs lOS OSOS de IITTADOICTiON I SOlItOS, LO MIO OSTOCO UNA tÓNICA

do la preocipaallo de ln0 sontris del incastres pos ol santonsionto de la

moral, la diaolpilia y si orden.

Uno do JOs OrguRLEsos que di friotisora Lavor realise en le oordilloi

Po, os, sin Lugar s dudas, ol Departamanto janisar10, 1 cargo dol niuno está

al soputado calorio, Capitán José Mistell, consondo e mus dedenos un suarões

y callonialso personali ocupando el puosto do capunto, el teniento Carlos -

posada, I1 Toan Médico no solamento preste sa servialro a los rebeldos, al-

no que teablón lo bioe a los habitentos de las roglonos en que elles operas.

Con 1n lastaluelón do dissintsu enfermerías y ul Inposanta trabajo de

L0a boebros que compasion al Departainato Seniterlo, do so logrado la desidro

siça conaldorasto co lua epidentes i entornadados ardalano que aposito a d

ni porcentajo conalderable de voc

inos cor territorio libro dol Recabee

Los rebeldes cuentan con un

Preara y Popesanda, estnleno que 6

rodeata los parto oriaizion o Loformalones del II Prente, la Aiivoslán del

•smo astá a carco dol Capitán ferro: derrisa, quion e la ves tione la por

poianbilidad do la soeretarl del hitado Mayos.

In jefatura de La Crganizailda Conisal del 1I Prento Haolenas del Basan

bray aina ospredo de supervisor Militar está on minos del norteamertennos.

Comandante Villton do Morgán, Lontras copas, do traeros Inioletivas y Mi tre

bajador Inennable por la auperaalón de todo el arreto que opora bajo la à

jurtudiosión dol Batado Mayas sabuldo.

para evitar la luf1itraalán de confidentos, asestos guiartemiales, eblo

Taton o dolincumatos un tarrizao boligórento, lo be areado el Guarpo do 10-

TOStIEROIÃa e InfOrmadIdo, el sendo del Capitán Maruel Utero Seto organiano

se encarga treslóu de inberrogar a aquellos juniras que son enviados por lon

Lisar un permenanto obequeo somno el comportaalanto de tndus las fuersas don

la joblasiin empostal.

---

## Page 9

=30

Una do las grandos dirloultados del ajareito roboldo der nadarani

en primeipio, la entrada do perossolad, sodiolnao, ropado mapitas si pi

todo lo todasarto para arlouallar debidamento eus a1/10lant,

•As ricultados ben quodado asparadas con la eracalón y portonte

Ti dal Dopartemento do ibantoolasontos, que ontá a pargo del gale

En coordinaslla con el antaror, trabaja al cuartol Mostro Coneral, que

Almeribujo los allaontos y otros artifoulon necesaron a los lunerables 8y

pamontos reboldos. El Capitán lionarlo Machtn; os la persora con que mente a

01 Entado Mayor rebeldo para que mutuoris distuta de la dosida asonaldn.

Adomo, os ulgrifloatito señalas que junto a Abeiteamientos y al Ouertol -

Maostro GOReTal, onté runalonindo la rabrioe do Dotas, onnanas, uniforas y

sartuchoras para revólvems y platolas.

il Depertamento de Arnerla dol 1I Frenta Maoional dal Becambres, datado de

todos los equipon neosartos para llenar a cabalidad ni trebejo, anti direli

do por al Capttón Rostro Caracho, ar-roniento dol ejeralto rapublionno espe-

Bol, y identão de la aunabrudosin do irramentos y lunaiones. sate cobarlon

-to ospañol, quo la hacho jura la cauna do la 11dertad de Ouba, os un verdado

no moontro en au protontoa. tal none ba quedado denostruda con la fabrlood

ao1 "yo)-Ournono", onlibro 45, soondiosonada con cersudor de disco de 70 tin

sos y enfriandentos i tene ya en construcolón otro tipo de Maso bato de bala

do onraura 1 talinan asponstru.

En el terrno do la coransanoido j: al oncento diarso, las Muersno dos II

Frento no tonos difionirados de ningia straro con la arlotonola dal Ocaspo -

dó Monagoros, Intogrado por hombros conosedorse de laù mplias tons donlna

dan por los Inaurgentos. Al frerta do asti liportante noléo está ol Capacia

Certos Marial Cárdonas.

I1 Estado Mayor y lA Delegaalón CiVIl dè este frento, en viata del alorado

poroentajo de nilos do odad essolas j sempeainos analfabetos, la jrroedido a

Li apertur do ditualas es varias sonas, a sargo de ina mullos so antumatrin o

@lemastro em condicionas intolestralos para impartis una ensifnase que enle

Bobiorno eguno arreasó.

Lo bombros d:1 II Ironto lacIonRl del ironira demestren con la poli-

---

## Page 10

... alfo

prede oca al travajo que reAliza ol Departamanio do iriampata, daja. la 11-

topolda dol estudianto do rata estoria, capsedi Publlo e Multi prelatata -

i procupado por ol soforamiento do los eralnos y serradoras endo dariodi on de-

dal respondrado dorporoldo de la erralliora, so entá estudlande la palbti

dod do LaTar a daDo ua pla do soodiilaialla do la0 ririetda, localidão -

pur la nano orlalral do Ico puldadoa y La8 destraídas por Do noelta traso

a do lao bambas i la metalla do lo teralo.

son un moldado dol Boonbrir no as ter fútli one muston Insirin 01l-

selo prennis puo al ponorar in territorio roboldo, do simódiato panaría e -

las taormas pos operes y sambator en las diatatas rimas, tRes no ouro

anto punolo dualquler boubro entre on el TerrItOrIO LlbrA del Bananbrey, de

lo Inteirosa ninosonmento en al Departamonto do Intestinolón o Informa

016n, i mo tardo de le renito el Camasonto Omoral do I00tru0010 20an

dando poruanoará el tiospo predecolal que la peralta obterer los eonoralm

LoS olAmentatas para conVortires e Un sArMIloTO stO parE lA peloR y 01

constante tocar.

Al Guaparento conoral do trauranalón deci a cargo del daulida Mary Para

tos rs1 arenino" )e nativo de ingolle, ex compatiento do lie 11 Oriora in

d102y so rendadoro nascero do lo que o osotleades do curralina de perlaros

/ Le disaspilaa, al acapattano y el acondrado anor a la palata prodanisa a -

¿uo antagrantos do anta orouela da la rovolucida, suco cespesento os ui vora

dadoro ofenpio da lo que puado al trabajo, ln protios y el parierso desiariro

Bado pos al CapItão Puartos I al Toniento ManoIaos.

La fonitara do Parional dal fronto ente bajo ln rasparmaisildad dal de

pita Berenino, uno de los combitientos na satieuon del sembrare

2:-"

Cientos de ounsntientos onnutitivos lao taorens del 1I Pirinto Miolonni

del Iscaiser, dondo en es unesco patriótico convitun loi bastra de todi

10A AlOjAdOs dO OllAD, DErTATAdOO DO JO MS DONIA: II FRENTS MADIONAL DEL AS

CAMERAT, E ED bandare: dal IS IA SUTRIZIA SOLITARIA.

EZ II PRANtO -l0 TOL-ATENODO On UI DestlÓn do Quenta, que tione 0000 oDe

josivo primorilal ol derronauiento do la Clotadura y el rostablostulento de

Las Inatistasos detoartinos poro entina que do enta retolando dobea o

---

## Page 11

14-00000

RE CONdO MUJa pUjANtO LA OU.A MUSVA LiA. MALANDO MOTOUIS O MORTHA

Hosenbrato osteiro do 1958.

iscar"

+22

Il Mento dado desnerer.

---

