# 104-10165-10084

## Page 1

104-10165-10084);

i iniraes

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Ассеві Ача ни кордамат:

BUESECE:

sueca

LITE:

The passpora file of SuJECi in: L

nase as shos alore; o [/ ender)

Bas revicaed ae:

the variation

the Passport Cifice, Departant of Siice, will the foliowing resulis:

PASSPORTS ISSULD:

Post recent-leeri

for (tica). 2

_ issued es / ...

travel to or residence in.

at

for purpose of

SPOJSE:

lane

; born at

Harried (date)

2nd

marriage not terinatcá; or terminatel ou

Rever larried

FATHER:

Name

dye

Hara

Bor at

•It foreign born, U. S. citizen:

PERIST RESIDE: De

MILING LIBRESS:

OCCUГA:1O::

Previons -

17 der 1

File at Tra, Suitland, #d., (Caccs if applicable)

19 .99

circlo inicalos corificntina dl infomacios on dio mucho iny discreg-acia=

sariations are critern inas shown os pasmort agalication.

2:0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

---

## Page 4

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 5

...

---

## Page 6

14-00000-

"b."

=:

ter ii

---

## Page 7

1100000

---

## Page 8

14-00000

..CESTET

---

## Page 9

td-indon,

---

## Page 10

DOMESTIC COLLECTION L. MISION

Intelligence Information Report

BLRECTORATE 0F

OPERATIONS

COUNTRY Boadares

SUBJECT

Construction and Expansion of Sugar

Mills/activities of Cuban Infiltrated

Guerrillas and Agicators.

(-0-5-5-T-7=-3-T-1-A=1

DOD REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

07 JL 6.3

1

DCD Case 63307

1.

2.

The Governent of Bonduras (COY) recently obtained a CS$12 vilion loan

froz the Central Azerican Bank of Econcade Integration for the expansion

of Ibe Azuestera del Sur sugar mili located in Choluteca, Bozduras. In

addition, the COB has purchased to sugar mills, one in Brazil and the

other. in Puerto Bico.. The mills, bought at à cost of USSi5 million eani,:

will be disntled and shipped te Manimes, Where they will be reassemoled

viti she aid of foreign teconicians.

ALso, anocher sugar all is to be

butle in the contry at a cost of I5520 million; however, the Japanese

Mitsobishi enterprise will be the najor stockholder, shile honduran private

businesseen will bold a ainority interest.

This is part of an expansion

and ecdemization progran by the GOH with hopes of obtainlug a larger

spare of the world'

§ sugar market.

The COd 1s sonerhat concerned with the Infiltration through Kexico and

Guatesala of Comminist agitators and guerrilla trainlag personel. These

guerrillas, mostly Cubans to rerained in the country after they had

arrived allegedly to assist tbe COH following Hurricane Vif1, are causing

growing concern as a result of several uprisings and invasion of private

lands by peasants is several parts of tbe country.

The Cubans, who stayed

In the country following Hurricare fifi and others who bave arrived

•cladestinely since that tige, reportedly are training leftise militants

and sympathizers song the Horduran peasants. The agitators and guerrilla

Instruccors are taking advantage of

groving unemploynent and the everall

poor national economie situation to stir the peasants into activity agains

the soverpment.

YES

CONTROLLED

ĐCO 87

el this sociaos.

mamier ohich of the

ĐCIO 1/7, a may bie

of Mational: lett.

TES

DISSEM

NO

DISSEM ABROAD

modestin

---

## Page 11

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 12

DOMESTIC COLLECTIOH DIVISION

Intelligence Information Report

Jens art

no Masonal Delege of to United Strtes wri

mponng of the fsonoge lows Tire 18, U.SC. Sess

al stat in say it antis di sur

enousarised pornon is protinted by low.

DUECTORATE OF

CPERATIONS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Honduras

Kegotfations for Iconcede Agreement.

with Venercela/Influential Officers

In National Defense Council

F-RE[-1→2-5-T-I-A-1

DOD REPORT NO.

DATE DISTI

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

0 8 JUL 1975

1

DCD Case 63307

2

The new military regise in Honduras currently is holding talks with

• Venezuela and bopes to sign an econoute agreement in the very near

future.

With that in mind, the Goverment of Honduras (GOH) recently

sent a high level concission to Venezuela headed 35 Captain Armando

Sen Martis, Secretary of Sante for Iconary and Comerce and by Attorney

Antonio Jose Cuello i muid discussions wich high rancing Venezuelan

Coverisent officials.

Prior to the taiks, the GOH recently sold to

Venezuela 25 million linear feet of lumber at a total cost of US$S

#dilion. The COY hopes to reach an agreement by whic Venezuela would

buy Honduran agricultural products for an unspecified nix of cash and

petroleu products.

In addition, Venezuela would support a new agri-

cultural production plan to be implemented in the very near future by

Fernando Montes, Bonduran Secretary of State for Agriculture.

Despite reports that Chief Executive Colonel Juan Alberto Melçar Castro

has unquestioned authority, Honduran willtary sources have indicated

that Marlo Maldonado, Agrartan Refora Chief, Lleutenant Colonel Mario

Tonseca, Director of

the Military Academy, and Lieutenant Colonel Juan

Ramon Holina Cisneros, Comander of the First Artillery Battalion are

the real "power behind the chrone."

These officers, who profess a

strong nationalist ideologi, are interested simply

in the general welfare

of the Honduran people, and they are maintalning a "vatchdog" attitude

to insure that no one, especially people in positions of power, uses

such positions for his own personal venefit.

These officers are mezbers

of the fiational Defense Council (IDC), which also includes the commandere

of all major military units in the country.

Maldonado, Fonseca, and

Molina appear tó be the "first among equals in the 15 member NDC.

#:

JES

JES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Chassified by

007682

shannon as @arciasstiM.29:1000.d0. 71

Imposunio

NO DISSEM ABROAD

Ho isliponto and infigns information in sis resort the diernatel

this innilligence component al Ma USe mombo equinis end to rosi

unless

mottenty comtolled in suardance with perepant ol

and orate she sCore inde die porcine of poses

an at the Wind rate or to sin

indiridual or orgonitatice one

---

## Page 13

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 14

14-00000

DOMESTIC COLLECTION I SION -

Intelligence Information Report

F35F2-R235-72E2

BRICTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

COFF-I-D-E-T-I-A-I

-COUNTRY Honduras

SUBJECT

DCD REPORI NO.

DATE DISTR

1 APR 19/5

Current Political and Econonic

Situation/Expected Natfonalization

of Fishing Industry/Leftist Influence NO. PAGES

In Cabinet

1

REFERENCES

Businessmen in Honduras have reported that the eccuonic and political

situacion in the country, currently inasad state of affairs, is bound

te become worse as a result of the indifference being exhibited by

Prcaldent Oswaldo Lopez Arellano.

On the economic side,

the private

business sector is quite concerned about an expected goverument move

to nationalize. the fishing industry. Some foreign firms already are

pulling out of the country and moving to nearby suntries like

Nicaragua and El Salvador.

On

the political side, President Lopez

has failed to name a permanent foreign minister since November 1974,

when Cesar Batres occupied that post.

Ricardo A Pineda is performing

chose duties on an Interin basis. The President also has undermined

Honduran youth by giving in to the demands of che leftist-controlled

labor unions. He gives businessmen che impressim that he does not

know much about government; consequently, the siracion in the country

has become very unstable.

Zi Appecently, che regime in Bonduras wants to emulate the current

Peruvian Government in failing to even consider elections at all.

In fact, the government, which is controlled by tie military, has

three pro left ministers in the cabinet.

They are Manuel Acosta

Bonilla, Secretary of State for Finance; Guatama Fonseca Zuniga,

Secretary of State for Labor and Social Security, and Manlio Martinez

Cantor, Executive Secretary, Planning Board. At sue time, Acosta was

the private secretary of che Mexican leftist leader Vicente Lombardo

Toledano, so he has been choroughly Indoctrinated along Marilat lines.

- end =

CONTROLLED

monice offciale of sia

ĐCID 1/8, it.

al National hit

JES

DISSEM

C-O-N-T -T-D=B-N-T=T-A-I

Classia

007622

BREMELON

втровы bop

EBONG 8D 63068 9 988669

matic dectanufication,

NO DISSEM ABROAD

a capart outsi

Crite

agonios el the US: Comenment directly participating in

United State me evy

individual an organitorico; arthro

sagine 89n

Dioleton, DI

is al Operarious

---

## Page 15

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 16

14-00000

ntelligence Informatic Report

his metrial contains information offecting no Mationed Deterio ol the United States will

emperhorian person is prehibited by leve

DERECTORATE OF

INTELIGENCE

- COUNTRY Hondurag

20 SUBJECT

Moratio Moya Posas, Agrarian Refon

Director/Rigoberto Sandoval in Italy/

His Attitude Porards the US

REPORT NO. X

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

(2356)

12 NOW 39YE

[this report was developed by an Aruy representative assigned to the

office of preparation. l

Horacio loya Posas is the present director of Agrarian Reform in Honduras.

He is Inetticient and lacks some of the becessary qualifications for that

position. In spite of hie being a lawyer by profession, he is not astate,

1s my of orege irtelligence, is far fron decisive, and frequently

vacillates when called ipon to make decisions. He 18, however, extrenly

anti Commist: His deputy director is Roberto Oliva. He is no asset.

He has no artgoing personality whatsoever, and in fact, he is ruther

Annochors -

One thing that can be said in his favor in that he is reported

to be a geed engineer.

• 2o: The previous Agrarian Reforn director vas Rigoberto Sandoval. He te an

extremely capable lawyer, very sagacious, intelligent and he displayed

great foresight in that position.

His present and future course of life

fe worth observing closely because a possibility does exist that be may

be a candidate-for an important political position la the not too distant

future®

date Sandoval has not mentioned which political position he

Plane to veek. Another reason for observing him la that he is exceedingly

ant: 03.

$. If Samoval does decide to seek a political office, it would mont probably

be Ceneral Oswaldo Lopez Arellano who would sponsor him.

Early in October 1972 US importer exporter received a very plensant

parsonil letter fron Rigoberto Sandoval.

By the tone of the lettar one

would judge that a close relationship has existed between then for som

time. Sandoval stated that he was in Italy working for the Food and Agr

calture Organization of the United Nations (FAD), and that for the preient

his stay there was: for an Indefinite period... He enclosed a long list of

Itene which he requested the US Asporter-expurter to send to his lovediately

11 at all possible.

The list consisted costly of furniture, househole

furiahings, electrical appliances, etc.

- end =

I 3 IMPDET CL BY

C01--1-DEN-T-1-A-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

TES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

santo.as aperitically com.

in undo a entractual rolationhip to the U.S. Govnant wishoni do written permission eFu

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

14-00000

intelligence Information deport

PRECTORAT O

INYELLIGEO

COUNTRY

C SUNJECT

Honduras

Possible Reactivation of The Central

American Conmon Market/Labor Not Endorsing

Any Specific Political Party

CON-F-I-DE-S-I-I-A-L

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

(2356)

2 3 NOY KF2

Honduran. merchants, industrialists and some of the

people have been urging

he revival of the Central American Cormon Market (CACH). To all intent

and purposes it has been practically non-existent. Salvadorians and

Cuatemalans have also expressed the same rinsire.

..20

In-early October 1972, these urgings were taken into consideration by

• the

Secretaryship of Central American Econonie Integration (SIEC1) (Secretaria

Permanente de Integracion Economica Centro Americana). SIECA appointed a

president, and a board of directors was selected. Eduardo Ortes Colindres,

a llonduran lawyer was narco president.

Coural Semon of Nicaragua and

Ceneral Osvaldo Lopez Arellano approved tie appointment of Eduardo Ortes

Colindres so much that they offered to aid him in revitalizing the CACH.

The board is composed of members from Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaraguag

. Costa Rica and llonduras, They are authorized to represent their countries

in all matters pertaining to the CICH.

2, It is interesting to note that in spite of Honduras having informally re

tired from the CACH, not only is the president a Honduran,

but so is the

president. of the Central American dank of Economic Integration (BCLE),

with headquarters in Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

The fact that General Samoza

of Nicaragua and General Lopez Arellano of Honduras have volunteered their

assistance to Eduardo Ortes Colindres has led most of the Central Americans

to believe that the CACH can once again be made active.

If thia does occur,

it would indeed be nost beneficial to the Central American countries

concerned.

TES

COH--I-DENIAL

YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Be disse

the 150 =

NO DISSEM ACROAD

aron of this documene is limitid lo cintion simplogues and astiro dury miltury per

sensel watchie this inti

mento af

andre a contrachel

madonatip, to the ll & Geremiani wittiut de sti

---

## Page 19

14-00000

5.

6-0-1-5-1-2-E-5-T-I-3-1

- 2 -

Labor is better organized in the northern part of Honduras than anywhere

else in that country.. It has a headquarters in every city where adminis-

trative activities are conducted and where sectings of union lenders are

held. So far meetings have not taken place at work centers.

Transactions between Labor and the government are carried nut by labor

delegates Celio Gorzalez, through the Ministry of Labor, never directly.

Labor, as such, does not subscribe. to any one particular political party.

The Marxist theories do not appear to appeal to Labor Unions.

many ut their members do seen to be leaning towards the Liberal Party®

On the surface Labor Unions' actions in Honduras appear to be denagogic

at tines®

They make demands on the government, industry and businesses

in spite of their knowing that their demands may prove to be harmful to

the economy of their country.

It would be rather unfair to always hold

the Honduran Union Leaders responsible for this demagogise, because

frequently the union members thenselves are guilty of pressuring their

leaders to execute some specific demand, even though they hud already

been sarned of the possible haraful effects.

• end .

CON-F-I-D-E-S-T-I--

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSERT

---

## Page 20

14-00000

---

## Page 21

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 22

Le elligence Information. port

..BIRECIONATE CI

MATEUGENE

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

lorduras

Sandosal Dissatisfaction

with the t's/Possible Lopez

"Contimisso" Maneuver

60-6-=-1-=-1-T-1-1--

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERSNCES

(2356)

2* JUN 1970

1

I. I have recently bad tbe opportunity so spend an evening with Rigoverto

sible for agrarian resom within ta Republic of Honduras.

the following information:

Sandosal is making a trip to kes- Gemany and poss "bly other son-Commist

European Countries in an attempt to procure tecinical assistance, credit

and other unspecified help for

the Escauran agrarial refora program.

the best interests oi londuras

to turn to cos, rics other

than the IS for assistance.

He cinined the US is now in decline; that

she is both unable and unilling to fulfill ber internationai obligatioos,

particularly within Latin Anerica, zed that she is slow to react and

bogged dow with breaucratic red

Sandoral also suspicions that

the Peace Carps, initlalty very seneitcial to lociduras, in a 20a1 of the

3. Sandoval considers hinself to be the enemy of foreign businesses, particularly

Ancrican, as they are holding large arounts oi property which anould figure

in the agrarian reform movement.

Be did not mention plans to appropriate

forcign land holdings however.

Sandoval has not teard President Osaldo Loper Arellano personally claim

Interest in another ter.

The feeling inside governsent circles is that

Lopce will request a constitution: amendent persitting his to remain in

office for six core years without lenefit of election. If this happens

Sandoval will resig..

Although lopes is behind the agrarian reform program

his remaining in office would not be beneficial to the country.

- end -

CON-I-I-D-E-N-T-I-

TES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Thes

the 1153

roland.

YES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

senders specifiedig.

monship to the ll. § Governon winner tus orions parrai

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

Intelligence Information Report

se surelation of whirts in any

DIXECTORATE OF

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Honduras

Interest of Lopez in Second Term/

Declize in Influence of Zuniga/

Lack of Support for Candidacy of

Pernandez

COFF-I-D-E-F-I-I-i-I

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

KEFERENCES.

(2356)

2

1

JUN EM

1. Presideat Oswaldo Lopez Arellano is interested in a secord tern.

This opin

Lon 1s pased on a growing consensus anong Congressmen, Forduran business

leaders and the cilitary that Lopez desires to renain in oifice for another

tera. Te thinking in these jorduran circles is that ie lack of disclairers

by Lopez is, in itself, a strong indication os his "eonsimuiseo" plans. Ap

prosizately ten czys ago Herman rascua, zarager of the lational Railroad,

headguartered in San Pedro Saia, Lad a Ciscussion With we President during

which Pascua passed the renari that he would like to renain with the railroad

as long as Lopez remained in office.. Lopez sade no specific rejoinder to

this but Pascua left the President's office with the dissinct ingression that

Lopez Nodid rua for reelection.

Lopez would probably be reelected with relative ease. me opposition Liberal

Party is civiced internally and lacks bors an elfective ce didate and the

capital necessary to offer a serious challerge.

,. The power and influence of Ricardo Zuniga has declined rastically in recent

sonths.

Inis is not due to any sicific act but more to a growing realization

by President Lopez of Zuniga's dishonesty, assision for zoner and his in

abilisy to get along with sose government oisicials and orcairent military

officers. President Lopez was particularly cistayed at Zuniga's hardling of

Honduran pronagarda during the recent Honduran/El Salvadoran border war.

Lopez allegedly felt that the irvective against El Salvador often mirrored

the type used by Cuban Cosmunist.

Miguel andonie Ferrandez, a seis appointed presidential candidate, is as

honesty sincere and well respected man. There is a suali group of roughly

ten Arab and Jcwish businesssen in San Pedro. Sula know as the "econosic

madia" because they control so such of Horduran business'activity, mis

group has taken rote of the candidacy of Femandez and bas been inpressed

by his honesty and sincerity.. They will not support his however, because

they feel he lacks the political experience and popular base for a successful

campaign.

- end .

C0-I-DE-I-T-I--I

4

YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

S

YES

NO DISSEA ABROAD

#.83

erpanian sors or peria

man undor, a contracuel missionship to Me ll I Goraten! a::: ta bristen persistias of isa criginstor.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

---

## Page 26

I elligence Information R._ ort

4657576

mitten

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

Honcura:

SULECT

Antfolmertean Sentiment/Apparent

Industrial Incentive Purchase of

Arentert

CONFIDENIIAL

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO FACES

REFLREPCES

(2356)

NO DISSEM ABROAD

19 NOV 1969

1

..1.

For over five years I have been in close contact with Hondurans of

different backgrounda and social position.

Never before have i seen che

anti-American sentiment which is sweeping Honduras at the present time.

The feeling is not only evident among student and labor organizations,

,but among sectors of what is considered to be the best informed and

educated individuals in the country.

Most of them are convinced

that the US bas the Influence to exert diplomatie pressures on El Sal-

vador in order to settle the pending border dispute, but has failed

to do so. They see the US Government as favoring El Salvador.

During conversationa with several government officials they emphatically

stated that Honduras was not going to open

the Pan Anerican Highway to

Salvadoran traffic.

This is the artitude of almost everybody that I

talked with. Thia single issue has served to unite the country like

never before.

There is a new feeling of pacriotian which was lacking

before the conflict wich el Salvador.

3.

The campaign against Salvadoran products bas resulted in an incentive

For Honduran investore.

I bave had several inquiries from Honduran

businessmen who are interested in establishing production facilities for

consuner articles which were normally imported from El Salvador.

These individuals are eager to invest and establish factories in order

to fill the demad for producte which were imported from El Salvador.

Honduras has been purchasing arms and armunition from Portuguese and

Belgina sources. Some of this armament has arrived in the country.

According to a military informent most of the armament has not been

delivered, but le expected in the country before the end of the year.

- end -

TES

C-O-#-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A"L

YES

This da

in arcordance sta

car paling as tha

Деня в пат

mural is lied

DCIO 17, il may be reland is thous

components of ma

nder a contractual

malananahio to No ll S. Gerarame

and wilton the writer permission al the erigerator.

---

## Page 27

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 28

Ir -ligence Information Rer t

DELONG

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

Honduras/El Salvador

SUNECT

Honduran Government Interest in

Purchasing Weapons to Arm Reserves/

Alleged Purchase of Combat Aircraft by L

Honduran Official

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

PAGES

REFERENCES

(2356)

NO DISSEM ABROAD:

II SE DO

1

- During early August 1969 a close business associate net with Colonel (fnu)

Coreccoili (phonetic) and members of the Honduran Army General Staff. Colonel

Coreccolli and members of the Staff were alarmed by the continuing reports of

arms and ammunition stockpiling by El Salvador.

These individuale were of the

opinion that the armament of the Honduran Arned Forces was inferior to that of

El Salvador.

During the meeting Colonel Coreccolli inquired about the possibility of a legal

•or illegal purchase of approxiately 2500 M-l rifles and an undetermined amount

of .30 caliber ammunition fron US sources. He explained that the weapons were

needed to arm personnel

with prior military service in case of a renewal of

hostilities with El Salvador.

These individuals were considered to be z re

-serve for the Honduran Armed Forces.

3. My associate explained to Colonel Coreccolli that under the circumstances the

US Government would not issue an export permit for the armaments.

for il=

. Legal sources my associate disclaimed knowledge of any. He also considered

the transportation problem.

Colonel Coreccolli stated that if acquired the

weapons could be smuggled aboard a Honduran refrigeration ship which was an

chored in the Miami River at that time. Following this Colonel Coreccolli

closed the meeting indicating that he was going to explore other possibilities.

Following the meeting my associate had a conversation with Rigoberto Sandoval

a member of the Planification Board. Upon being informed of the meeting, Sandoval

warned my associate to be careful in any dealings with Colonel Coreccolli, since

he was known as a corrupt government official, a "thief". Sandoval stated that:

thie was the opinion of President Oswaldo Lopez Arellano who distrusted Corec-

colll.

A few days later my associate learned that Ricardo Zunisa, Minister of

the Presidency, has been given the task of purchasing arne and ammunition for

Honduras.

Hauricio Hernandez, wealthy oner of a lumber mill in Honduras, risited the is

during the firet. part of August 1969.

He told me that he was going to purchase:

tiro "combat aircraft" for the Honduran Government.

He did not specify the type

nor the source of the aircraft.

About a week later I had a telephone conver

sation with Hernandez, during which he told me that he had been

"guccesstul" in

-bis purchasing mission. He did rot give any detaile.

• end -

U

YES.

The diss

of the US! member

is accordance with par

pressionling in the pro

Hans or persOn,

C-OH-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

YES

ed DCID 1I7.

winto the intelligence e

be rateased to

iness components al the

agencies of ihe U.

I SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTONS ll sheil not be disseminaied do es

ictual relationaln to the U. S. Goverment wither the mrisen permission of the originate

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

COMFIZENTIAL

CEaN: 6232

FUNES: 10ircal Dieciclifiction of facito

& Torcier 2933

2r9225g Cuban dcx26306 lealis

lo A ecauce di dio offico succitly depostel lis Inicazaticn

2a Ili r convuriation with sore aclubiros 290 rarived free Cuo

duntag Ostesse 2235.

r fenilse

inea by releclics 1C6 irod tes talm Inforaciea cai

3º Trilia 13 tre scoona on third cificer bocca the 1:21a3

shig

"In Flato lo lo cicialistan mico via Cico

This Giasanscêcchion

trires fata La sajeot Supaleonene o? Mia fugler, Aurello /ario 211232

2o vea camicerà ino

"consensoro) sienary estiritles" dy dna Cosa subcoquantio tis teliao

catci tho 13e

curing teo thea ol lin lachero innicoansis furelio bcs

bio frailjo

Pillo reintra la tho Paratoat terlas Lessuco 0f tho Trivilesca

Obtaio2a es 5 alliso and boatore ci da ep rtallay to traval. la dio

clito to bio falgo lour of lasce caft aia 123 2011 Ca tar:sa0d In

the black raiat fon durrisucia col Clior Deses-l*icIe

minto has tuo clatero noo sec ¿ arcied to lercunt liae

12 has coo culalo four suors chio anongher class

50101155, 12215 024-3 2161-2030

Go Palio Intlio 15 dious 25 100i3 0i aa, Intelliguat and dia

Ia is not Irrifclo

Mega 15 tos Essa riodo tano seara cinco

I baro ucca ala, aria sino do relatlica tola 1a I lallaio tras dellio

voula bo utilina do comparate ructant die Cuco Parlas the Sonobh dess

OF CetoLor La "La Plasu" dos cupapual do le di Illico, Spala viiargoisg

• CONFIDENTIAL

É%:!

Paria',

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

14-00000

MINFORMATION REPORT

CINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This malerial contains information aFacog the Natonal Delense of the liailed Stales within the meaning of the Espionago Loves tal

B. U.1C Soes 793 and 794, she transmision or revelation of which is any manner to an unauherized person in prohibiied by lam

C-0-11-7-1-D-7-X-I-I-A=x

?. COUNTRY

Honduras

REPORT NO

I SUJECT-

Opinions of Mosses Lopez Maldonado on

Pomalble Presidential Candidates

DATE DISTR

1 FEB 1968

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

(2356)

I. During the ridale of January 1968 I had & lengthy conversation with

• Moises Lopez, Kaldonado, Honduran Consal In Costa Rice and & dead?

personality In the Partido Nacional (FJ). He 16 a very close friend

of Martin Amero, leader of the Pi. Lopez spends about half of 416

time In Honcuras, He 18 an Intelligen, and cunnirz politielan vith a

20% of common sease.

In Internal and foreign affaira.

During our conversation he stated that the next President of the country

vould be a civilian.

He doubted very much if the irned Forces could

come up vita a suitable candidate.

Le gave his opinions about several

Individuals with presidential aspirations.

mmando velazquer terrato nas copletely disregarded t

irty nashiner

ie is ambitiois, but too Inäividualistic.

He has so political future in the country.

• hard vorser and a good man

the present time are very subtle.

"Ricardo Zuniga 18 well qualified and would have support from

most of she influential people is the governent who would

Ice to see him as a Presidential candidate. A hard vorting

individunt, he is the right hasd of President lopez Arellano.

I consider hin the best qualified to run for the Presidential

office."

-end

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

YES

YES

---

## Page 33

14-00000

---

## Page 34

INFORMATION RERONES

INFORML TION AL ONT

CENTRA! INTEILIGENIF AGENCY

material estains infernation allering the Risional Delense c! Me Uniled Stales witin ihe meaning dl se Espionage Lous, Tale

i. 83e Sees 790 and 794; the warsmission or reveiaon of winch

in any mannor so an unauthorized person is prohibiied by law.

C-0-H-F-I-D-8-7-T -I-/-b

REPORT NO.

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Bondures

opinions on Rigoberto Sarioral/ lance

•Acosta Bonilia/iriendo Velasquez

Cerrato/Actiiftles !." Ricardo

Ziniga/Status of Fresent Gorerment

DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

(2356)

do I have known Pigoberso Sendoval 10° approximately eight months.. As the

General Secretary of te Pianification Board be is a very caable and

competent indiriduai. Le is progressive and liberal in his ideas,

though at tines seems to be inclined to the lef..

potential for the developent of ice country.. Sa-covalos i-strumental

In Instituting a cousis project of approximately one thousers houses;

to be constructed in san Pedro de Sula.

needy families. À loan of is$2 milion

Interenericano de Desarrollo" for tre project.

EAtE

He 18 8 as of grest

The houses will be slit for

has bees granted by " "Banco

2 The Kinister of Econoy, Kanuel Acosta Bonilla, 1s an honest, tard

vorking, ane responsible individual.

I have elsed with hin and with

people who are close to hin and so: the impressin that Acose has no

higher political aspirations. At least he does not show any outward

signs of 1t.

3ª Armando Velasquez Cerrato 15 being bandled by tbe government sery

carefully. He is cossidered to be a dangerous i-dividual, Soever,

be ie regarded by sore of his folloers as a scepegoat of tse present

governent. Persorally I don't shiss that ie has any oppor-ities or

enough popular support to intervene in the gorer-ent success ully.

Ricardo Zuniga, Minister of Presidescy, remains as an influesial figure

with President Lopez Arellano.

Zuniga provides financial sport to tbe

non-Comunist stuient organizations no supportis claims at the US

1s Intervening in lasiuran interral affairs.

In a recent co rontation

with an official of sbe US Enbassy, President Lopez Arellane openly

Since the last two years there has been a narised change in sbe country. There.

could have been wofe progress. but the government is not dynenic enough,, even:

though President Lopez Arellaro is in complete control of t government.

The opposition to the sovernient is weak, plagued by differesces of opialone, y

and lacking unity.

Ire large anjcrity of

the people are usiergoing creat.

aisery and poverty.

substating from one daj to

stito the oirer, not polisaes.

the rasses are contested. Their interest 18. in

INFORMATION REROR IN ARMANU

REPORT

C-0-N-F-I-D-5-Si-I-I-A-Z_

(Sj1S

---

## Page 35

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 36

INFORMATIONS RERORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

i used a i lot fate to Me tored idea did in dod sea i on ta ear to pra te, Too.

*CONTROLLED DISSEA

C-0-11--I-D-1-11-T -I-A-L

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTrY fondures

SUMICT

Proposed Steel-Plant ad Paper and Pulp

Flant

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTIL

NO. PAGES 1

19 JAN 1968

REFRENO

(2356)

•I Teeptlations are yoing on with Merleo for the establishment of a steel

plant in Fondaras.

The principal force behind the establishment of this

Industry 1a (fnu) Alduvin, an engineer with the "Banco Certral". Aldavia

studied In Mexico, any ia a very intelligent and capable person. Aldua

un Minister of Fublle Works during the regine of Villeda Morales. At

that time he was a supporter of Brown and Root, & US compeny with offices

In the country. • Though Alduvin ms Instrumental In granting several

Importent projecte to the compary he now criticizes it as mother exten

mion of "Yankee Imperialien".

A US fira, International Paper Coupany, has been selected an one of the

unfor stockholders, vita participation of ADILA und the Goverument of

Honchrras, for the establishment of the paper and pulp plant and for the

exploitation of lumber reserves in the country.

The paper and pulp plant

1s tentatively to be established at the junction. of the Aguan and Kane

Fivers.

The area selected by the soverent for the exploitation of

lumber reserves covers approximately 15 thousand square kilcuters in the

departnents of Olancho and Toro.

The governnent 18 going to face a prob

Jen trying to deterine the onership of property in the are.

I estimate

that it sill take three years to survey the boundaries and to set land-

marks in the ared.

Nio access ronds will be constructed to serve the area. One, "Carretere

del Projecto forestal de Olancho", vill connect the paper plant with tbe

forest reserves, extending Iron Mane to Bainas, a total of 130 liloneters.

The other road will connect the piant to the const, from Mane to the port

•$ In Colba, a total of 100 kilometers.

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPOR

THE

is cirline

and artier

within tha

ONE DISSEMINA DO TO CONTRACTOR S oN to r

+ He U. 1

and urtlagut the writer

parmission of th

---

## Page 37

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 38

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORt

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This maturial contains information affechug ihe Nañonal Defense el Me United Sites within the meaning el the Espionage Laws, Tale.

8. U.S.C. Sece 793 and T34, the trammission or revelation el mbich in arry mareer do an unauthorized person is prohibited by lo.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

GON HOLLED DISSEM

C-0-11-7-I-D-B-*-I-I-A- I

COLINTRY

Honduras

REPORT NO.

-SURECI

C1vie Action Progran Success/Arned Forces

DATE DISTR

Capability to Cope with Insurgency/

Activities of CIAC, Cuben Propaganda

• Organization.

19 JAN 1968

NO PAGES

RETELENCES CIRI, C-D67-53900

(2356)

In The ared forces are doing a splendid job in their civic action projecte.

Their friary interest seens to be the construction and repair of roade

throughout the Republic. In conversation vith a liaison officer between

the arzy and other governent agencies he pentioned that the only diffi-

culties they are facing in their programs is toe lack of adequate equipment,

and the lack of cooperation by the Public Works Office. He told me that

In most instances the requeste made by the army for the use of additional

transportation or utilization of existing equiment are disregarded by

minor officiala. This creates problens requiring the action of higher

officials, who are given the impression that toe army i8 the originator of

these problems.

Considering the available resources and facilities of the country the

arned forces are vell trained and disciplined. During the latter part of

1967 President Anastacio Somoza and & group of other Niceriguan dignitaries

waited Fonduras.

Several groups under Coomnist Influence desonstrated

against the visit. I had the opportunity to observe the developnent of

the deconstration, frou a meeting to a riot, from a vantage poiat.. Despite

the fact that the aruy riot control troops were stoned and abused they

vere disciplined enough to prevent wbat could have been a serious incident.

They did not attack or fire at the sob, as vould have been the desire of

the leaders, who Incidentally alvays reanined behind the nob and utilized

other people to direct ard incite the demonstrators.

The troops and juntor

officers who vere present during the deconstration were highly praised by

the responsible elements of the society.

If a querrilla movement started I believe the armed forces vould act

miltly. A special counter-gerrilla unit le well trained and equipped

to prevent develoyment of sual! unite into large and organised guerrilln

bands •

INFORMATIONZREPORT INFORMATION-REPORT

C-0-N-J-I-D-K-H-T-I-A-L

duty wolfary

compost al to departments.

I SHAL NOT EL DISPARATE TO CONTRACTORS I N

Agents do the uS Gommun

und aretout the writer (

muttons rises

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

C-0-1-Y-I-D-I-I-I-I-A-1.

-2=

No:Two or three monthe ago I met three Cuban nationale, Jose de Jesus Flama,

Carlos Vorrls, and Eduardo Garcia, members of the

"Confederacion

10: 10

Amricana Crintiano", Chao, vita ostral offsees in Caracas. Mose Ladie

viduals travel through Latin America vith the purpose of faulliarizig

groupe with Commmist nethods of operation and apreading denocracy. I

talked several times with them, and with people who had attended theis

mootings. It is uy impression,

as well as that of others, that they

tended to create the vrong impression.

feveral times they justified the

actions of Fidel Castro, and seemed to be arti-American in their line of

propagande. Certainly they did not do anything vortarhile to aid deme-

These Individuals claimed not to have ery association with the Us,

and to ruceive financial support from Germany.

• "

...

C-0-I-I-I-D-B-N-F-I--I

---

## Page 40

14-00000

Intelligence Information Report

EIASCTONATE OF

INTELLICENCE

1:COUNTRY Honduras

SUBJECT

General Lopez Arellano Unwilling to Lead

Coup d'etat at Present/Army Officers Being

Irained in Peru/Zuniga's Stratagens to

Retain Present Power

C0-N-F-I-0-E-N-T-I-I-L

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

(2356)

2

., The Horduran economy is in a deplorable state. Some young army officers

are urging veneral Oswaldo Lopez Arellano to lead a coup

d'etat to dis

place President Ramon Ernesto Cruz, and have offered to help him. Early

in October 1972 a government official and several young aray officers

stated in a private cunversation that Lopez Arellano did not believe it

advisable for him to lead a coup d'etat until most of the following

do A rally in the general economy of the country.

b. Improved diplomatic and commercial relations between Honduras

and El Salvador.

This improvement would further a better function

• ing of the Central American Comnon Market (CACM) •

€.

Completion of the Pan Anerican Highway extending between El Salvador

and Honduras.

Completion would benefit both countries by giving

access to new markets for their products.

Decreased corruption amng government officials. Not only are

some of then feathering their future nests with currency, but

also permitting individuala to do Likewise in return for some.

thing the government official desires the recipient to give or to

do for him.

Enrichment of the Treasury so that funds could be made available

for projects beneficial to the country and its people.

TES

CON-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-L

YES:

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ADROAD

The di

a nis donnan to limital lo eirtion emolumeos ond netive nore military personal mithio the intelliger poorence

and so those sortien

atticiale al the eserter

eganting she 1.1008

apa 8 al DCID 0/8, i may be palad la phala companent el the deperiments on openses be the la barras

l Diationas tomilgunco. IT SMAlL NOT BE DISSEMIMATEO TO CONTRACTORS. l unal nol be dissa

tantenti

nue a sortertual minonship to sho U.&. Gorerament wirton the writer permisin

---

## Page 41

14-00000

I During the same private conversation, General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano was

quoted as having stated that it sold be futile for him to lead a coun

d'etat undess there was hope of improving the helfare of the sasses and

the general economy of the country as well; he fimly belie:es it would

be impossible to accomplish that goal until a change in must of the above

conditions were met prior to any coup d'etat in which he would be interested.

.3 Selected Honduran army officers have attended special courses at an arms

facility in Peru since approximately 1967.

Ac.ording to an army officer

the mumber of candidates sent sirce early 1972 has not only been increased

but also each has been ordered to specialize in any one of the br. "ches of

their choice. They previously attended the various courses given at that

The army gives an outrard appearance of being in sympathy with the present

regime, but in reality not all the members sympathize with President Cruz.

In private conversations some speak of him in a derogatory manner, espec

ially young officers.

A man who contimes to wield a grat deal.

uf power in llonduras is Ricardo

Zuniga Augustinus, Minister of Goverment

and Justice, also leader uf the

Nationalist Party•

Zuniga's ability to continue wielding power is due to

his being a very clever, astute, wealtiny man.

He always knows exactly

what he ants, and does not hesitate to utilize his personal character-

istics and his wealth in obtaining his objectives.

Zuniga's present ambition for continued power has forced him to feign

being a firm constitutionalist.

That is, he is claiming loud and clear

that comitments made between the goverment and political parties must

not only be respected but must also be adhered to.

does not clain

this because he really believes this to be a moral obligation, or because

he is a fervent democrat; The fundamental reason ie that he knows he is

the recognized leader of the Nationalist Party, as well as having become

sustaining the present regime of President Ramon Ernesto Cruz in power.

the pover he has today.

Foday relations betwen General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano and Zuniga are not

as cordial as they were previously. However, one must not be led to be

leve that this situation is unrepairable because if Zuniga needed Lopez

Arellano's help, or vice versa, the former pleasant r ationship would

be hastily nursed back to life.

It is just possible that if a coup d'etat

led by General Oswaldo Lopez Arellano should take place, and be successful,

Zuniga sould make a great effort to settle any differences existing between

them.

This might not please some of the army officers who dislike Zuniga

• due to his character and the procedures used by him to obtain power.

They are naturally desirous of improving their way of life.

The Air Force has recently organized a company whose entire not profits

will go to the Air Force for the benefit

of its members. Ceneral Oswaldo

Lopez Arellano is investing in various industries and small private

Industries.

He has very recently established a company called Empacadora

de Cares (meat packing firm) whose net profits will be for himself alone.

The Armed Forces hold General Onaldo Lupez Arellano in the highest

This knowleuge

is based on his observationa and personal contact

with officers and enlisted men.

- end -

C-O-N-F-I-D-EN-T-I-I-L

PISSE

NO DISSEM ABROAD

---

## Page 42

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 43

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 44

INFORMATION REPORTE

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1011.1:

COUNTEY

Honduras

SUBECT

Econcule Conditions in Rural Areas/

-Unemployaent/Lack of Econonie Developnent

202041

REPORT NO.:

CATE DISTR:

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

1356)

10 son 67

Jo. My work takes me to the rural areas In Honduras where I have opportunity

i to talk vith the peasants.

It is my considered opinion, based on per-

sondl obcervations, that the peasants in the rural areas are bitter and

disgusted with their lot:: They have little or no faita left in anyone.

Economically,

thel condition is second onty to Haiti, In conparison with

the countries in the Caribbean.

The prices of staples compare with

•prices: in the US, but Bunduran wages are far below US sages.

unemploy-

ment Is a very grave problen. My coupany hires unskilled labor but does

not need more than 200.

We have had to resuse hundreds who applied :

because ve had no need for them, f sanll fraction of those turned back

1235 ALlE

will be able to find vork, the rest will reain unemployed.

1I1290517

There is little econoade developent in the country end almost complete

Jack of initiative and vigor. Seldon is a run found in Government or

Industry who is not aflicted with the two major vices among this cecent

Of the population: vine and vonen. The econonic Inactivity at tines

appears to be the result of indifference, other times the result of

Intentional delays by Communist Infiltrators in Goverrrent. As an ex-

anple of this "lack of initiative" I Will enke reference to the road in

the Olancho ared.

The loan for this 110 Illopeters of road was approved

In October 1963. The road is badly needed to nove agricultural products

from t316 region, to provide employuent for hundreds of needy people,

and to provide the only access for the construction of & US$ 20 million

pulp and parer plant in the area.. Until the sunner of 1957, these funda

remined Idle. Preliatnary studies were not even mede. With luck, '

construction may corence in 1963, but by this time paymente on the

principal and interest are due to start.

LINEORMATION REPORT INFORMATIOn REPORT.

118.

---

## Page 45

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 46

14-00000

SINFORMALION REPORT INFORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Me uses con el e ha enima de de ord alien el the un de Sure i in ta cariado peto ia prodio tor y Tras

C-0-#-F-I-D-I-I-I-I-h-L

COUNTRY

"SULECT

Hondures

Activistes of Ricardo Zuniga/Coloael

Armando Velasquez Cerrato

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

10 Hor 67

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCE

(356)

Ricardo Zunir, Ministry of Presidency, ls the hardest vorking mon in the

Honduras Covernment.

ãe enjoys his liquo, as sell as zy other official

In coverment, and when he goes os a drinking spree it say last for days.

Hoveve=, be has a great capacity for work and lately be tas cut dorm on

his drl-king. He la too intent in his presidential aspirations.

Pres1-

lent Lozez Arelleno hes left the adninistration of gove-ament to Ricard

Zunigs.

Funign's trusted nan 16 Lcas Lozano Zelaya, Procurador Gerera.

(Attorney General) •

." There are tvo others so have destas on the presidency, Fario Rivere

Lopez, President of Cossress, and colonel Amando Velestez Cerrato,

Hondurta Ambassador to Mexico.

Ritera Lopez' chances are very snall,

but Coloncl Velasques 15 a very se-jous contender: Bota Zuniga and

Lopez Acilano are fully sware of jis strength. aven thougi Colonel

Cerrato has jublicly denled that be 15 behiad the pro-cerato comitzees

being fored within the intional Party, I an Inforsed teat he is in fact

suppor ing them.

- end -

INFORMATION REPORT

U/ 833

INFORMATION REPORT

is

1E0

---

