# 104-10170-10139

## Page 1

104-10170-10139

THIS COPY AS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

Condensed Injuriation on Sgt. Marshall HOUTS from: W'ASH-SEC-OP-13

solder 14 MHZ. 618 o Septemoor 1945

a. While still at Kyankoyn Major Charles J. TREES

and Captin Carrol C. GARREISON called HOUTS to their

dent. (TREES was HOUTS' Commanding Officer and GARRETSON

was Executive Oilicer to TREES.) TREES stated that GARRETSON

had discorered dilly-one. 15 calibre automatic pistols at

Chilagong which were "charged out to no one." TREES and

GARRETSOY believed they cou!d get a "good amount"' of money

¡rom the sale of the weapons, but they wanted HOUTS' advice so

they wouldn's see caught. (HOUTS had been in the FBI). They

offered HOUTS one-third of the profit and, after several days,

he agreed.

b. On die night of 3-t July 1945 HOUTS assisted in the

clandestine delivery of the pistols to a La. Col. Tun Aung, a

Burmese officer in the "Burma Riiles" for burial, until a market

could be jound.

c.

On 15 July 1943 HOUTS was questioned by the OSS

investigato? and assisted him in the recovery of the pistols.

2. During the first week that HOUTS was in Rangoon an informer :

told him char 90

swor is had been buriid in the compound of A. Habeeb.

At GARRETSON's direction and expense HOUTS had the swords cleaned.

On 25 May 1945 HOUTs delivered them to TREES' quarters. On 13 July

1945 TREES quariers wore searchod and so swords were jound and

confiscated by OSS. (Several classitied ducuments were also jound in

TREES duiile bag.)

3. TREES, GIRRETSON and persunae! under their command

misappropriated

property (jewelry and old books) during the sirse to

wecks of the occusation of Rangoon.

1. Six Oss personnel were killed in a plane crash carly in June.

Three parachutee were recovered irom the crashed plane. GARRETSON

and HOUTS had salamas and other articles of clothind milored irom the

uarachutes.

5. 1: Spring 1965 TREES and GARRETSON were invalued in the

illegal sale o: opiam.

SERRAT

---

## Page 2

14-00009

SEE ET

6. In carly July 1945 TREES and Moats were involved in an

illegal money exchange.

Specific charges against HOUTS, as recommended by the

investigating officer:

and one Model Me suna chise sut, proper y of matic Bierola

b. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to misapply

the above firearms.

c. Larceny of 86 swords.

d. Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to ¡eloniously

sake, steal and carry away 86 swords.

Conspiracy with TREES and GARRETSON to procure

and dcal in abandoned property found in Rangson.

signet

---

## Page 3

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 4

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 5

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 6

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 7

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 8

.......... -

..., mi...

---

## Page 9

14-00000

---

## Page 10

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

