# 104-10170-10109

## Page 1

104-10170-10109

Office of Crison:

Report diade At:

Subjec falsivas

FIRERARID NSUD ANN

Classification:

Folerence:

39 776

23 Februmsy 1931

TA1-2691

ried Cong:

B5/0374 400d2

Stanis:

Novert 1X7170 dated 13 Men. 1015 entitled von artir)

1s roquested by tuning, the follariny as funiset by ta senters of Mr

ground forens pasources and rechateal stuff.

The Mrst source, M/Sgt. Farry Man states Urt Neuren's Mrst nise la

so was bom and edicted in emany.

Inay fromertly nentioned

the to of atreation he reedy ander the vernons and also tha sethods

of instructions.

Sate lives sald thet Nough uns a mechande with the ArO

prior to entoring the 1.5. 1oy-

nie to his work with time irt, ISMIN 1a

a close friend of reneral CHoraTE.

po la a quiet follon and rary solden

inters into comcarsatiion.. He 1s bald die to tysme.

The second ouce, Ir. Imps mart, stater that fein was eilei fia

normany and has been in Chira for a long time,

prior to jainin the avo, ba

was an enginer. Accerding tour. "Rut, Neuman retar gorassed any

onliloal sentiments.

He 15 a mulet fallou and seldos erzages anyone in

corversation

The source also states tint he nover heard feuan mention

his fantly relations.

TADE TINTED Y EADS:

Al runnings.

This case is considend to be clos d at razing.

The furing

office say obtsin further inforsation fra

other felles coldlory of the Alr

prond forces resorce and" chrtea? sinfl

Distribution:

Í2 - Washington, Dolo

I sero

I : net. 202

2 - Funkas

1 - yuelyang

---

## Page 2

CEROS OF CAN MAN RE ARCHES AND WEAPONS

MANCATOSY REVIEW OF CLASSTELED

SERVICE

1/8/16

Date of Request

Name of Depository:

Address:

JOIN EE KENNEDY LIBRARY

380 TRAPSLO ROAD

WALTING, MA 02154

Fhone #: 617-223-1250

I hereby request mandatory reviev of classified

material (see attached list) in the records/document collecti

of

National Securlly Files

(record group or collection)

In accordance with the provtstons of Executive Order 11652,

Section 5 (c).

Name of Reguestor:

Address:

Richard D: Yahoney

4019 S. Mill Ave.

Tempo, Ariza. 95282

Phone f:

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

DECKERSE

National Aichie's and Records Service

H'erdingaon, DC 20109

In reply peter eni

NL5-76260

APR:4 9: 575

E- 76-124

Pro Gune F. WUlson

Information and Privacy Coorilnator

Certral Intelligraco Agcacy

Marnngton, De 20505

Dear Mro Wilson:

Under che provisiona of Seceion S(C), Executive Order 11652, a researcher

han requested the mindatory classification review of che enclosed document)

fros the holdings of one of che Presidential libraries.

Enclosed are coples

of the researched's request and a document 11st.

The identification of che

library file which contains the documene(e) is given in the documene liat.

it there to any question concerning this request, do not hesitate to contace

UB:

Please revie the document(s) and if they may be declaonified, mark then

approprintely.

If a docurent should remain classified in the Interest of

national securiey, please provide us with che applicable exemption category

from Section S(B) of the Executive order and with a dace or event when:

automatic declassificacion lay be accomplisned. We would appreciate retur

of the document coptes with your response.:

erely

EDWIN A. THOMPSON

Records Declassification Division

Enclosures

KFR ZZ

SECRET

LNCLASSIZIED UPON REMOVAL UF ENCLOSURES

Keep Freedom in Tom Fuisre Wih US. Savings Bonds

GSA 0C 84-083#

---

## Page 4

26 Jansary. 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

Chairman, Informacion Revlew Connitece

Assistant for Inforaation.

E.O. 11652-=Richard D. Mahoney (E 76-124)

A.

Initial Request dated 8 January 1976

B.

GSA Referral Lettor w/att. dated"

19 April 1976.

C. " IPS Reply dated 26 July 1976.

D.

Appeal Letter dated 15 August 1975.

Summary of Reconnendations

Sustain the initial

determination to deny the document in toto under provision

S(B) (2) of E.0. I1652, as amended. Add provision 5(B) (3).

2.

Background:

On 8 January 1976, Mr. Richard D. Mahoney

requested a mandatory review of two classified CIA

documents under provisions of Executive Order 11652

Section S(C).

The documents were in custody of

the National Archives and Records Service (NARS)

in the John F. Kennedy Library.

b.

On. 19 April 1976, the NARS referred Mr.

Mahoney's request with copies of the documents to

The Agency was asked to review the documents.

If declassified, they were to be marker appropriately.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 012170

CONFIDENTIAL When

Detached From

Ailachments

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

if they remained classifiel, the Agency was

requested to cite the applicable exemption

category from Section S(P) of the F.C. and

a date when automatte declassification may be

accomplished. They requested that the coples

of the documents be returned with the Agency's

responses

On 26 July 1976, IPS arote to the

NARS and returned

copies of the documents

Both documents were found to require continued classt-

Cication under E.O. 116Sz Section S(B) However, a

sanitized version of Item el was found possible

and was enclosed. NARS could advise requester

of his right to appeal directly to ClA.

On IS August 1976, Mr. Mahoney wrote

to the. CIA and appealed the decision to with

hold from declassification Item 12 of his

request:

3. Recommendations:

a. Tab B-2 contains TDCSDB 3/657. 851 dated

12 November: 1963.

During the initial

review, the

document was denied in toto to renuester under

provision s(R) (2) of E.0. 11652, as amended:

The

document is. based on NCL-1832 dated 10 November

1963.

I recommend that the initial determination

to deny the document to the requester in toto

under provision 5(B) (2) of. E.0. 11652

he sustowed and that provision s(Rat"s mended,

now be applied.

The information is.from

i sensitive source with unique access to a poli-

tical leader.

cause embarrassment to the

If released, nired States Govern-

the infornation. could

ment and exacerbate relations with a friendly

foreign government.

b. During the DDO appeals revier, a classifi

cation review has conducted. The document is

meaningful sanitization cannot he made.

CONFIDENTIAL When

D:1a led From

Altachments

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

reconmendations.

OcC has not yet concurred in these

DO Appeals Officer

Attachments:

Tab A • References A-D

Tab B - TDCSDB: 3/657,851

COORDINATION

C/AF/PLAYS

DATE

CONFIDENTIAL When

Detached From

Altachments

SECRET

---

## Page 7

Append

£ 76-1.7.24

els

jens

Aison

intortatlon

trivncy

220:11?492°

Conurn Intolllgence dreir,

socilreton..

r.?.

00505

210-7

51F.

Ten 0u d0d 6.

39.5

20: 81x--6-943

Slace I do 1u:

lies

Too document,

por.tion

0:1? y

1212956

tr.at

the chario

-ol:

celloulahreat of ts 40.1.r

200105

:11:1 4r..

4911-9!

ter?::

the

sensitlilty

of ttls

Jaguagre

25660V

relased ir sanitleed foo:

Thank you for your soilleratlor.

hearing fros you.

too: remail to

Rill Wylsh

90e 23

Cy liar

---

## Page 8

* =

•UNTER SITES CAMIRICA

GENEVAL SERVICES AOMINISTRATION

Notional Archiors and Records Screice

Washing:on, DC 20109

In reply refer to?

NP.K-76-321

WAY 1 0 1:13

Mr. Gone F. Wilson

Intonation

and Pribicy Coordinator

Control Intelligate Aginey

Washington, DC -20505

• Dear Me. Wilson:.

166

€ 76-150

Under the provistons of section 5(C), Executive Dider 11652, is rescarcher

lia regreated the mandatory classification coview of the enclosed document(s)

from the Boldloge of one of the Presiduitial librarles.

Enrlosed are coples

of the remarche's request and a document list.

The Ironetfleation of che

•Libracy

file which contains the document (3) 11 Elven in the document lise.

TE Alone

13 any proillon concerning this request, do not healtate to concact

11:9 *

Plates color the dewarailed did le thog loy ie declassfiled, mark chem

appropriatoly.

IF i documeit

Rould ramm stamiried in the Interest of

masonal seruelly, plore provide no bich the applleable exenpelon category

from Soution 5(3) 0f Cho Piccutive order and wich a date or event when.

auromotic.diclassffication my heaccouplished. Wa would appreciate seturn

of the dooment coples with jour temponse.

straerely.

Director

roveda Doclassification Division

linclosures

Mr 19 / 34 PH'76

CP

Y CLASSINTED UND

Mtcro.caes

---

## Page 9

A MANDPORY BENTED DE MAGGIECED MATERFAL IN

POOr OR THE NACLONE ARCHERS AND RECORD CERVICR

1/0/16

Date st Request

Address: 2130_01002101000

VALELER, MA 02126

Mune i: 61l 223:1220

I hereby request

mandaroey couled of classific

miocial sce aliched list) in the escorts docent collections

MOLOTAGS QUATER DRS

(record coup or contession)

L2c0RD 185.

will the provisions do recrative duder 11652, *

Richard Doyle Baloney

1012S. MULevo.

Peope, Arizona 85282

Pione i:

---

## Page 10

Guanary

CONGIDENCEAL

SECRaC

TOP SECRET

Unmarked (but

pusshly ilossiried)

Ex2.2nls

1

Jac2o

5

i,------==

• 13

Polal. ClassiCied

UnclassiCied Atlachronis

(for information only

3

18

: 1.03

1/1.3/63

!1r1!9.3

Desoription CidentiCication, bJ::b):*

SC No. 00302/&3B:

"signiricanes or

PEC-African

Association Agraement"

Cornis

o? torch Diricials on Franch Aotivivies

in Block Alejen"

OCT 4o. 2375/63:

isub jeet:

African

Renetions

to US

Positions

Council

in Sccurity

Debates on Pursuguose Territories

and South Africa"

Claust

tion

Pores

7

S

C

too archivist:

Documents from ASP:CO:Africs, 8/63-11/63, Bo% 3

---

## Page 11

MEMORADS FOR: Chairman, Inforantion eries Cooters

ATTENTION

50B68

NIFERENCE

Executivo Ordor 11062

Appeal--

kichurd

hoyle Bahotry (i

76-150)

:. Initial Request fron bars dated

100 Miy

1970 with arteriounts.

B.

It's roply do saks dated 21 one

1970.

C. Appril better, 2i Septerber 1976.

of recantation:

determination

Suspin the initivi

rocshi1/66o,110,

incolligence robart

ori inated be taris Stalion dated

liod under excoption

Ordor (1.0.) 11652, and add the claim or F(l(ü) oF

1. 0. 11052.

?.

Backeroes!

il.

Richard Doyle Makoney, il neaber

at the puttie

who is idmiriod a: i

initiatol

0lt

§ January 1974

ti:rough

the

Kom dl library

a mandator rorion of TheSil- 3/066

,:0 to eccordaned

- with the provision: of 1.0. 11052

Section "(C).

This request

for revich

tas

romarded to the via tho

National lochiros and Records Gorice CARE on

10 May 1976.

I respondod to 1Al5 on 20 mine 1976

Among other things, Cid denied in tote tocsor

3/650,700.

wich was Item Da on the Niks roquesi, ou

the ground of Section E(B) (2) of lan. 11634.

1:2

IMPORT

101 Bx 012171

---

## Page 12

SCRET

reply stared.that the locument had to remain

Passified indefinitely in order to protect

intelligonce sources and muthods, and stated

that release of segregable portions has not

feasible.

This was based upon a classification

revicw by a knowiedicable officer

dated 27 May 1976.

Mr Richard Doyle Mahoney appealed this

determinition directly. to is in a letter ditco

September 1976.

He specifically asted if

rould not be possible to release a sanitized

version of the document without jeopardizing

national security.

3.

Recommendations:

detalied recommendations.

See the Appeals Roview Forms for specific

A second classification

review was requested

by DDO/ISS/PICG.

The second

revier sas conducted

on TDCSUB-3/656,770 on 22. Recenher 1076 by Furope

Division, which decided

to rotain the classification

at Scurot in accordance with F.O. 11652. Europe

Division miorminco miur rorior that there vere

foreign polich and linison sonsitivities which

precluded doungrading TDCSDB-3/056,140, 0r

sterilicing the document and releasing portions

thereof. at this time.

I-la hed From

Attachments

---

## Page 13

To touris

informian in the doctacht tort

the bored i:

scurity.

in

disclose de that incontion 102d

fact he filely do point the linger of duipirit

one of thou is pourer.

Fallen lo progres

this

source would in toon jeopardies Con rotations

with

carront aid loture sources.

officer agrees with

this position.

Out: his n0l get concuire in

theic rocommentations.

Arischients:

References A.C

Fish

Full Toil of ToCan 4/606,710

COORDINATION:

X EUR/EXO

DATE

7 Jan 77

---

## Page 14

14-00001

€-76-150

NIK: 70-321

StanDar 22, 1975

Inforjation Rovion Comiltos

€ 76-150

Inforrathon ind Pilvicy Coondinator

Madalagton, DoCo 20505

Das infaniaclon Roylor Coralitogs

Walso tho prordulons of Macitira Cilor 11552, I rould Ills to

appaal tha italy dostsion

thoroof Man bolng duclasairlado 114. - 76-311.

1s ta 1yayoy liar dons with sono sany of ay doclassifloation

nguests, told 1t not bo passiblo to colouso a santitual version or tha

dosimant withort jropardistng national socurity?

I Iosis turned la racoiving your roply and tin you for your

comilaration of this and Frovious -2smls.

Sineurialya

Richand Meals Mahonay

Join Fo

Yanna library

330 Timpolo Road

lialthar, Kasso 02154

:L:

---

## Page 15

14-0000

1: 25331

86 Best 6

000010888841

BIP LOTES COPIOS

TON 6068 (sONA)

META CH DE BRICA FOISAS

5-25331

2073

260.C0m

1.81

temos tiad

GONTIDEESIAY

---

## Page 16

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 17

ADENIAL

31 December 1975

MEORAWDUM POR: Chief, Information and Privacy Stell

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

F7S-4057

The FBI forwarded for our terler two documents

Rolease of those docunents

(8560-316 02695-20 200)d

(b) (3) (a) and (b) (6) POIA.

and CSCI-316/0051S dated April 1971.)

Charles A. Briggs

Chief, Services Start

F2 MPDET

CL BY 0012176

---

## Page 18

Administrative - Internal Use

4. November 1975

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT

REFERENCE:

Request No. 75-4057

This Directorate does maintain an official file on

Subject.

A review of this file and other records of this

Directorate reveal the following information identifiable

with requester.

Administrative - Internal Lisa?

---

## Page 19

b. One INS reporti

A copy of this document 15

attached for referral to the Immigration and Naturali-

ration

Service so they can correspond directly with

the requester.

c.

Three documents originating with this Agency,

of which sanitized versions are attached.

Further

descriptions are as follows:

(1). Name Trace Request dated 12 November

1968,

exempt per (b) (3)(a) (sources and methods),

(b) (6) (privacy) and (b) (1) (properly classified) of

the Frcedom of Information Act, as amonded.

(2).

Memorandum dated 21 November 1968,

exempt per (b)(3) (b) (CIA Act of 1949) and (b) (1)

(properly classified) of the Frecdom of Information

Act, as

amended.

Cable dated 20 February 1970, exempe

(b) (3) (b) (CIA Act of 1949) and (b) (1) (properly

classified) of the Freedom of Information Act,

amended,

Charles A.

Briggs

Chief,

Services

Staff

Admiristratire - Internal Use Only

- 2-

---

## Page 20

Jit 28

/ 27 AM '75

22 July, 1975

1101 Pine S

Philadelphia, Pi. 19104

Irbort S. Young

Coordinator, Freedom of Information Act

CIA

Washington, D.C. 20505

IRS 75-4057

Dear Robert Young

I am writing pursuant to the Freeven of Information Act, % U.S. C. Sec. 552, et seq.,

to request that you provide me with any ind all records, documents, memoranda,

letters and any information of any type or kind and in any form concerning me that is

on file, in the possession of, accessible ta,

or maintained by your agercy. If for

any reason you decide not to foriard to me any of the Information that I have hereby

requested, I further request that you identity the nature of the information withheld

and the roasons for your action,

I ask you to waive any fees according to the Act which permits it when the request

"is in the public interest because furishing the information can be considered as

primarily benefiting the pablis.". I think this is the casc.

As provided in the amended Act, I espeet to receive a reply within 10 working days.

Sincercle

---

## Page 21

SEUNLI

17 Ncrember 1976

NEMORANDUM FOR: Chairaan, Information Review Committee

ATTENTION

Mr. H. G. Bean, Assistunt for Information

SUBJECT

FOIA Appeal

REFERENCES

A.

Initial Request dated 22 July 1975.

IPS Reply dated 19 March 1976.

C. Appeal Letter Received 26 April 1976.

1. Summary of Recoamendations:

a .

Sustain initial determination to deny in toto

to requester to DO originated documents under

exemptions (b) (1), (b) (3), and (b1(6) of FOIA.

Remove

(b) (6)

from one docunent;

add creapcion (b)(2) to

both Jocuments...iJabs B-S and 5-6).

b.

Release addicional inforzation in three

DDO

originated docurents previously releised in

sanitized form--excised portions exempted under (b) (1),

priate.

C.

Correct the names of the deciding officials

in the appeal response to requesier.

d.

Advise

requester that docunent B-5 super-

cedes

document B-o and contains the exact same

information.

IPS advise FBI. that document B-5 supercedes

document B-d and that the latter should be destroyed

to avoid duplicate referrals in the future.

Correct dates on documents 8-5 and 6.

E: IMPDET

CL BY 012170

SECRET

CONFIOENTIAL When

Peta-hed From

Machments

---

## Page 22

SECRET

Background:

On 22 July 1975

wrote

to ClA and requested all and any information con-

cerning her maintained by CIA under the FOIA.

She provided some biographic information and asked

that any fees be waived.

b. On 15 Decenber 1975, IPS/DDA advised DDO

that two documents

had been

referred to CIA by the FBi.

C.

On 19 March 1976, IPS wrote to

and enclosed sanitized versions of four documents,

three of which were Do documents.

Deletions had

iven made under (b) (1),

(b) (3),

FOIA.

and (b) (6) of the

iwo additional DuO documents (those referred

by the FBI) were denied in toto under the sane

exemptions.

The exemptions vere explained, the

denying officials were identified by name, and

was advised of her right to appeal.

was also advised that FBI and

INS ori-

ginated material was being referred to the FBI and

INS for their direct response to her request.

When IpS listed the four documents. they

droneously listed the Deputy Director of Security

as denying

document 1 and Chief, Services Staff

as responsible

for documents 2

3, 4, 5,

and 6.

In fact, the Deputy Director

of security was the

denying official of document & and Chief,

Services

Stuff for documents 1, 2

3,

5,

and 6.

OGC should

point out and correct this error in their letter

to requesterl.

In an

palatad torter received by CIA on

26 April 1976,.

appealed the decisions

pursuant

to subsection (a) (6) of the FOlA.

3. Recommendations:

Tabs B-1 thru B-3,

B-S, and B-d contain the

documents constituting the DDO

appeals

revich.

Please

refer to these tabs

for my recommendations concerning

individual documents.

• 2

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL When

Polached From

Atiachments

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET

b.

As stated in Paragraph ic above, 1

recommend that OGC,

in their lotter to requester,

correct the previous error in identifying the

dcciding officials.

Document B-6 is a CSC! chat transmits an

accumulative machine listing o the FBI.

document is updated periodically and previous

listings shuuld be destroyed.

Document B-S

the updated and final machire listing for 1970

and superceded docunent B-6 which

been destroyed.

I recommend that OGC advise

requester that document B-S supercedes document

B-o and contained the exact sire information.

further recommend that IPS dras this matter to

the attention

FBI so future duplicate

referrals may be avoided.

A classification revier of the five documents

listed in Tab B has been conducred.

The documents

are properly marked and properly classified in

accordance with Executive Order 11652, as anended.

All non-exempt information has boen identified

and recommended for release to requester.

The FBI and INS documents pertaining to

Subject located in DDO

files have been referred in

writing to the respoctive agencies for their direct

response to requester.

(See Tab C).

OGC has concurred in these

4.

• recommentations.

DDO Appeals Officer

Attachments:

Tab A = References A-C

Tab B = Documents

Tab C = NIS & FRI

B1, B2, B3,BS, and 66

Referral Letters

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL When

sia hed From

Attachments

---

## Page 24

king Copy

Gene F. Wilson

Information and Privacy Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C.

20505

Dear Gene Wilson,

•On 23 March, 1976 I received

some matorial on myself from your files

which only partially answored my request for information.

Your letter

Indicated that an appeal should he directed to you.

This lotter

consitutes that appeal pursuant to subsection (a) (G) of the Freedom of

Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) .

As provided for in the dee, I will expect to receive a reply within 20 working

days.

Sincerely,

AFR 26

7 55 AH '76

---

## Page 25

14-00000

0 091

18 April 1977

NENOR IN DUM FOR:

FRON

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

Chief, ISS/Policy and Information

Coordination Group

American Voluntcer Group: American

Voluntary Guerrillas: Alternato

Voluntary Government; requested by

Terry Catchpole

Request No. F-77-147

Subject organizations have been checked with all components

that night have an interest.or a record. The search revealed no

records in this Directorate pertaining to subject organizations.

15

CONRDEVTAL

---

## Page 26

F-17-147 JE. (pls dick)

CODLOOL

70.097

288$68.0900

March 7, 1977

Log/F

sient

rcedom of Information Coordinator

contral Intelligence Agency

l'ashington, D.C.

Hear Sir.

This 19 a request under the Freedom of Information Act as amended (5U,S.C.-

lection 552) •

Briefly, my request is for information that may be in your files pertaining

• a U.S. paramilitary organizntion known variously as the American Volunteer

lizoup, American Voluntary Guerrillas or Alternate Voluntary Government (all AVG).

As you know, the amended Freedom of Inforsation Act provides that if

parts of a filé are exempt from release,

"reasonably segregable" portions shall

be provided. I therefore request that, if you determine that some of the

requested information is exempt, you provide de lunediately with the Information

1. hat can be mde available.

Of course, I reserve my right to appeal any such

s'ecisions pertaining to "exempt" material.

I am prepared to pay reasonable costs for locating this information.

seR?

Terrel

Terry (Catchpole,

Managing Editor

---

## Page 27

CONROENAL

10 May 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, Infornation and Privacy Staff

Chief, Policy and Infurnation Coordination Group

Peter A. Schey Request

- Ku Klux Klan.

ct al,

at Camp Pendleton, California

F 77-025:

The files of this Directorate have been scarched with

regard to the listed organizations' connection with Camp

Pendleton, California and the result is negative for each

organization.

CONFIDENTIAL

C 2:N2ET BY BY222120

---

## Page 28

577-025 - iK

Pls zcknowledge

LAIN OFFICES OF

LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN DIEGO, INC.

SOUTHEAST OFFICE

3O%0 INERIAL AVENUE

SAN DIECO, CALMORNIA 92102

(784) 239-9837

January 13, 1977.

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade

Mid. 20755

CHIEF OF NAVAL CPERATIONS

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

Washington D.C. 20350

Attn- OP-09318

DEFENSE INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

DS4A

Hashington D.C. 20301

NATIONAL SÉCURITY COUNCIL

Attn. Staff Secretary

Old Executive Office Building

washington D.C. 20506

PEDIRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DÉPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

9 th

and Penn Ave. NW

Washington D.C. 20535.

DIRECTOR

DEFENSE INTELLICENCE AGENCY

Attn: SC (FOIA)

Mashington D.C. 20303.

DIRECTORATE FOR FREEDOM OF INFORGATION

Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense

(Public Affairs)

Room 2C757. Pentagon,

Washington D.C. 20301

CIA FREEDOM OF INFORIATION COORDINATOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCY AGENCY

Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FREEDOM OF INFORISATION REQUEST

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

This is a

request under the Freedom of Information Act as

amended (5 U.S.C. $552).

JAM 17

433 PH PH'77

---

## Page 29

P081T

Page 2 (continued)

san writing this letter on behalf of mysclf and

and Reporter Publications.

Pursuant: to the Frcedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. $552.

as amended by pub. L. 93-502, 88 Stat: 1561, we wish to

obtain access to and the opportunity

documents:

to copy the following

All directives, memoranda, letters, orders, reports.

investiga done epidie on other osorde cludie to en

cornation, existence, activities, operations.

membership,

size or presence @any of the following organizations at

Camp Pendleton Parine Base, California:

a.

b..

Ku Klux Klan:

•California Ku Klux Klan;

United Klans:

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan;

United

klans of America;

Southern Ku Klux Klan;

White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan;

White. Brotherhcod;

i

United kians of America Knights of the Ku Klux Klan:

j

Minutemen:

K..

Secret Army Organization;

I .

Christian Crusade Church;

American Rangers;

n:

Invisible Empire of the Ku Klux Klan;

Christian Defense League;

The National States Rights Party;

California Anti-Communist League;

Christian National Alliance;

American Volunteers Group;

Provisional National Government of the U.S.A.;

American Nazi Party:

National Socialist White Peples Party:

w..

Leagion of justice;

Operation Unicorn-And other similar groups.

2.

All directives,

memoranda, letters, orders, Icports,

investigations, studies, or other records, including written

memoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the

foundation,

existence, activities, operations, size, member-

ship or presence of any of the organizations named in No. I

above in the

United States Marine Corp.

3. All directives, letters, memoranda, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze

or otherwise relate to rascism at Camp Pendleton Marine Base.

---

## Page 30

14-00000

Page 3 (continuc)

4°

All directives, letters, memoranda, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze

or otherwise relate to rascism in the United States Marine

corp.

Since none of the statutory exonptions Erom the Freedon of

Information Act's matidatory disclosure provision applies.

access to the requested records should be granted within

ten (10) working days

In the unlikely event, hovever, that accoss is denied to

any part of the requested records, picase describe the

deleted material in detail and specify the statutory basis

for the denial as well as jour reasons for believing that

the alleged

statutory justification exists in this casc.

Please also state your rcasons

discretionary power to release the reguested documents in

the public interest.

le also request that you waive any applicable fees since

disclosure will meet the statutory standard for such waiver

in that it would clearly be "in the public interest because

furnishing

the information can be considered

as primarily

benefiting

the general public".

5 U.S.C.A. $552(a) (4) (A) •

Should any procedural problem arise as to this request.

please

call me (collect)

Attorney at Law

TERESA. ORTIZ

MUTARY PUBLIC - CALIFORNIA

principil ollica, San D.ago Co. Calal

My Commission Exp. Der. %, 1979

+444411997979

PAS: pon-

Subscribed and sworn to before

me on January 14, 1977.

For Lice COntion THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

---

## Page 31

LAN OFICES OF

LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN DIEGO, INC

SOUTHEAST OFFICE

3040 15PERIAL AVENUE

SAN DIEGO, CALIFONNIA 9L10I

: (784) 339-9837

January 13,

1977

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Heade

ild.

20755

CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS

DEPARTRIENT CF THE NAVY

Washington D.C. 20350

Aten. CP-09818

COMMANDANT, UNITED STATES MARINE CORP.

Department

of the Navy

Washington D.C. 20350

DEFENSE INVESTICATIVE SERVICE

DS4A

Washingtori D.C. 20301

NATICNAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Attn. Staff Secretary

Old Executive Office Building

Rashington D.C. 20506

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

9th and Penn.

Ave.

Washington D.C. 20535

DIRECTOR

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Attn: SC (FOIA)

Washington D.C. 20301

DIRECTORATE FOR FREEDO OF INFORMATION

Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense

(Public Affairs)

Roor 20757, Pentagon,

Washington

DC 20301

CIA FREEDO:1 OF INFORMATION COORDINATOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FRFEDO1 OF INFORIATIO.' REQUEST

TO WHOM IT HAY CONCER':

Bat is 11 to at

if titann

nF

Fallarina narenne and

---

## Page 32

rage 2 (continued) .

organizations:

Williar Bishop, 6202 Capestone, Dallas, Texas

Grenoiv Coffoc. 1521 wellstone Place, St. Louis, Mo.

Eddie Page, Jr., Bay Springs, Mississippi,

D.R. Hunter, 2715 Drewry Lane, North Carolina,

Ricky McGilvery, 6202 Capestone, Dallas, Texas

Willian Spencer: 511 Henry Place, High Point, N.C.

Fletcher, 2222 Superior, Detroit, Mich.,

Clarence Capers, 209 Powder Mill Lane, Edgewater Park, Phil.

Anthony Matthews, 3904 E. 155th, Cleveland, Ohio

Carlton Goodlett, President, National Newspaper Publishers

Association - Black Press of America, 1366 Turk Street, San

Francisco, CA

94115®

Reporter Publications, 1366 Turk Street,

San Francisco, CA 94115.

Military Liw Office, National Lawyers Guild, San Francisco, CA.

Pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. $552, as

amended by Pub. I. 93-502,

88 Stat. 1561,

they wish

to obtain

access to and the opportunity to copy the following documents:

All directives, memoranda, letters, orders, reports,

investigations, studies or other records, including written

memoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the

formation, existence,

activitles, operations, membership, size

or presence of any of

the following organizations at Camo.

Pendleton Marine Base, California:

=.

b.

C.

d.

Ku Klux Klan;

California Ku Klux Klan:

United Klans;

Knights of the Xu Klux Klan;

United Klans of America:

Southern Ku Klux Klan;

g.

h

White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan;

White Brotherhood:

United Klans of America Knights of the Ku Klux Klan:

Minutemen:

Secret Army Organization:

Christian Crusade Church:

American Rangers:

Invisible Empire of the Ku Klux Klan;

0.

Christian Defense League;

---

## Page 33

Page 3. (continued)

The National States Rights' Party:

california Anti-connunist Leagues

Christian National Alltance:

American: Voluntcers Group;

•Provisional National Covernment of the U.s.n.g

American Nazi Party:

v.

w.

Ndtional Socialist white Peoples Party;

Leagion of Justice,

Operation Unicorn And other similar groups.

2. - All directives,

remoranda,

Investigatect ss meson letters, end ringleten

memoranda of telephone

conversations, which relate to the

foundation, existence,.

activities, operations, size, member

ship or presence of any of the organizations named in No. 1

above in the United States Marine Corp.

All directives, letters, mecoranda, orders, reports,

investigations.or other records

which describe, analyze

or otherwise:

relate to rasciom at Camp Pendleton Marine Base.

All directives, letters,

meroranda, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze or

otherwise relate to rascism in the United States barine Corp.

Since none of the statutory excmptions. from the Frcedom of

Information Act's mandatory disclosure provision applies;

access to the requested records should be granted within ten

(10) working days.

In the unlikely event, however, that access is denied to any

part of the requested records, please describe the

deleted

material in detail and specify the statutory basis

for the

denial as well as your reasons for believing that the alleged

statutory justification exists in this case.

Please also state

your reasons for not invoking your discretionary power to

release the requested documents in the public interest.

We also request that you waive any

applicable fees since

disclosure will meet the

standard for such waiver in

that it would clearly be

"in the public interest because

furnishing the information can be considered as primarily

benefiting the general public".

5 U.S.C.A. $552(a) (4) (A).

Should any procedural problem arise as to this request, please

call me (collect)

to aait vour pronas reply.

AEtorney at Laa

---

## Page 34

10 March. 1976

LENORANDUN, FOR: Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

A.

B:

Request No: 75-4508

Os Referral dated & Decemhor 1975

This Directorate mintains a filo onl

The following paragraphs describe

tho results of

review

of this file and tho other record holdings of this

Mirectorato.

There are sir FBI documents Identifiable to

Attached is a list of the descriptivo

data for

those documonts that should be referrod to the FBI for

thetr dotermination.

The following documents may not be passed to

PocumenE and Dato

1 Cable, 12 July 1970

& rispatch, 28 July 1970

4 Dispatch, 6 August 1970

•Cablo, 20 Fobrusty 1970

nispatch, 19 Play 1970

fiCablo, I6 May 1972

Exemption

(6) (1) (118180n), (b)(3);. (D) (6)

40.

(D) (1), (b) (3), (0) (8)

E2

IMP DET

CL BY 012170

---

## Page 35

43 The

document referred to this Diroctorate by

the Office of Security should bo returned to then for

their revier. The document concerned 1s a list of names

of people

Jated

Chardos A.

Chief, Services Staff

Attachment:

A/S

Cc:

OPS/ITC

LA

---

## Page 36

6

3 0) PN'75

Robere S. Young

roodon of Information Coonlinitor

entral Intelliganco Agercy

hitton Do 20505

u02 1e• Younge

IRS 75-4508

alor the provisions of 5 Use 552, tho Froudom of Information Act,

accoss to,

and coplos of all fllon and docionts maln

alnod by tho CIA rolating to mysolf:

ej photographs und fingorprint flles which you may have.

s, purchance, you rule that portions of these flles aro "roasonably

orrogable!"

roquest copies of

the romnining material and roservo

ij right to appoal any such doletions

if, porchanco, this roquost is donded In wholo or in part, ploase

nforn me of tho appropriate appoals procodiro.

"I dclotions are made, ploase cite the statutory justification for

rach doloted Itom.

: an submitting my full none, date and place of birth and Social

¡ecurity

firumber.

I an

propared to pay a rocsonable foe for the

roproduction of this matorial.

s required by 5 US 552, I aspect to hoar from you within 10

10rking dayso

Sinceroly yours,

---

## Page 37

COMR

5 Parch 1976

BIEMORANDUM FOR: Chiof, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT:

Documents Reinting to the Vencerchos Brigade

This Dircetorato is unblo to locate or to

neknowledge origin

of the folloring reports contalned

in tho flies of tho Offico of Security:

a Report - 31

May 1970. 1

.b. List of nanos of Pecplo

Idated 18. May 1063.

thorofore decline to ruio

on the relcascability

of these tro documents on FOlA and PA requosts,

and ask that these documents not be roferred to

us for action.

2.

From the portions forwarded in connection with

spccific requests, there would appear to be no

renson for

denying the inforantion.

We defer, however, to os for a

final Judgenont.

DDO/PIC

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 012170

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 38

11174

27 October 1977

MEMORINDUS FOR: Chief, Information ind Privacy Staff (U)

FROM

Robert. l. Owen (U)

•Do Inforration kerier Officer

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

P-77-0140 (U)

(U)

A search of the

DO records systems has

pinduced nine documents whose recommended disposition

is as follen's:

3.

b.

(U)

(U)

Six documents are denied in toto.

(Tab A, Document Nos. 1-6).

Bocument Nos. and 8 should be

referred

to

the FRI;

No.

and Document

9. should ho referred to the ..

Department of state. (Tab B)

Robert F. Owen (U)

Attachments:

a/s

cc: • ISS/1PG/SCB

(V)

ii.

ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL USE ONLY

When Detached: from Attachments

1.?.

... 012170

SECRET

---

## Page 39

7og/P

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear People at the CJ.A.,.

My name is

I lives

I am requestin

under the Freedom of Information Hct

all information pertaining to me in your

igency. files and records.

ours trulyne

erdented

affirm that all in formation.

rovided above pertaining to myself is correct.

this:

41 dan af January before

personally

appeared

to me knows to

Siate of New Yois. Woming County

Commission Expires disren 30, 10lk

---

## Page 40

20 April 1976

MEMORANDU FOR:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Chlof, Information and Privacy Staff

Request No. F. 76-211

A revion of the filos of this Directorate re-

vealed the documents discussed below concerning Subject.

Documents which may

be released in their entiraty

consist

twenty- four ovart ltems; copies attached.

(Documents 1-24)

One dóciment dated July 1971 may not be released

t 1s exempt under (b)(1) and (b) (3) (11alson), FOIA:

(Docúment 25)

26) consists remorandum dntod & November 1976 (Doèument

entirely of a direct quote from an FBI report

datod 30 May 1967, Washington,

D. C.: Subteet: Protost

Activity

In Washington, D. C..

Beginning May 26, 1967; no file.

This report should be.

roferred to the FBI for release.

In addition there are eighty-seven other FBI

documents which are not boing listed

since your offico has

advised

that the FBI also has a roquest on Subject.

(Documents 27-114.)

82: 533

Charles A. Briggs

Chiof, Servicos Staff

Attachments: A/S

E2 IMPDET

CÈ BY 012170

CONADEN7141

Coresonal Record for Juan Min auca cuss i pars pressed so minos ii

---

## Page 41

Ris.

Young

annii Intelligence syne.

martial, D.C.

20203

F 76-211

Dear Sir:

This is a request undar the freedon ol Information

sies, 5 i.s.6. 552, et. ser..

on behalf of

the undarsigned, were the auchorized

sificers at the time of the dissolution of the organtiation.

no request that you drovide us. with any and all records,

documents,

memoranda,

letters,

or any other typ

of kind

of intormation concerning our

grous that is currently on

file, in possession of, or mainsained by your agency.

al for any rarson you debortine nos to farcard to

ant of the Informition tha.

have boroby requested,

mother reguest that you identify the naure

income mion silthheld and the reasons for your actions.

¿s you know.

the arosed de. ocanier you to reduce

au waive the foes lE that is in the public Interest

i mause furnishing the Information can bo considered as

primacily bonefiting

the oubiio."

this request olainly fits thai caingory and ask jou to

ware any fees..

se providod fo= in the anenand hct, werill excact

to recolve.

a reoly within lo cays.

sincerely.

976

---

## Page 42

CONFIDENIA:

23 June 1076

MENORANDUN FOR:

• FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

.:

Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

Chirles M. Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

A. OS Reforral

B. Reqjuest No. F 76-211

The dispatch dated 18 April 1968, referred to this

Directorate by the orrice of Security has hoen reviced.

Release of the document

is denied under

exemptions (b) (1) and (b)(5) of the FolA.

Charles A. Rriggs

CONFIDENTIAL

Lispect ie arC12150

---

## Page 43

SECRET

29 September 1977

MENORANDUM FQR: Chairman, Information Review Committeo (U)

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Mr. M. G. Bean, Assistant for Information (U)

CIPS-F

FOR Me in (0)

REFERENCES

Inttiál Request Letter,

22 March 1976 (U)

B.

C.

IPS Response, 20 July 1976 (U)

Appeal Letter, 23 August 1976 (U)

1: (U) Summary of Recommendations:

sustain initial denial in coto of two DDO documents

under exemptions (b) (1), (b) (3) and (b)(6), as applicable. :

(Tabs 3 and 4).

Relcase portions of ten DDO documents: found

during the appeals

review, citing exemptions (b)(1),

(1) (3) and (b)(6), as applicable, for the deletions.

(Tabs. 5-14).

c.

Deny in toto one DO document located during the

appeals review,

citing exemptions

(b) (1), (b)(3) and

(b)(6) as the justification:

(Tab 15).

Rofer a list of 88 FBI Documents to the FBI for

review and direct response.

(Tab 16).

Refer one Department of the Army

document to them

for review and direct response.

(Tab 17).

• f. Five NSA-originated items have been referred to NSA

for review.

(Tab 18).

CONFIDENTIAL Whe

Detached From o

Altachments

SECRET

---

## Page 44

SECRET

2

(U). Background:

Subject submitted a request under FOlA, on

22 March 1976, for any and all information the Agency

In the 20 July 1976 initial response,

24 newspaper

clippings and one leaflet were released to him;

two

documents were denied.

On 23 August 1976 Subject appealed,

requesting

that further information be relcased to him

the group.

c. During

the appeals review 1l additional documents

were located and are included in the recommendations

These documents were not considered during the initial

they were not considered to meet the criteria

"records" extant at that time and they contained only

incidental references to the subject of the roquest.

During the appeals review we were unable to

identify any Air Force documents concerning the subject

of this request.

The requester should be told that this

was apparently an error.

During the appeals review we were unable to

identify any bepartment of State documentsI

Two State documents located,

possibly referred to in the initial response, do not

The requestor should be

informed that this was also apparently an error.

3.

(C) Recommendations:

2.

My specific recommendations are shown on the

Appeals Review Form attached

to each document.

A

classification review has been conducted and all documents

are considered properly classified and marked in accordance

with E. 0. 11652, as amended.

b..

"recommend that the two documents denied in toto

under the initial review

continue to be denied.

One of

3) could identify a still active and sensitive

The other (Tab 4)

was obtained through a sensitive

operation conducted jointly by. American

authorities.

SECRET

---

## Page 45

C..

I reconnend that portions of ion additional

docusents lointed during the appeals rories be rcleased.

Escaptions (b)(1), (b) and and (b)(6) should le cited,

applicable, to the denied portions:

Specific

recognendations on each of these documents is reflected

in the attached Appeals Revice Forms. (Tabs 5-14):

One additional document located during the

ancals revice should he denied

received from a foreign liaison service.

in tuto, since:

it wag

(Tab 15).

e.

88 FAl docurents located during the initial

revies, but not referred to the fal, should he referred

to the FBI

in triting for review ind direct response.

These documents are listed under Tab 16.

f.

One Department of the Army document should be

referred in writing to them

for revicw and direct response

The title paye: and

a description of the document are

itanched. as

Tab ll.

Fire

Irs. for revich. (Tab 18).

items from NSA have been refered to them by

n.

scroral other documents turned up during both the

initial revich and the appcals review should be considered

not responsive to the request since they refer to the

generic

hut not

15

sis fred m the roghus no tad roy.

4.

(i?

OGC has concurred in the above

recommendatio

Miliard it, legmae..

Richard

Hagner

DDO Appeals Officer (U)

Atrachments:

Tab A -

Initial Letter

Tab B . IPS. Response

Tab C

oneal Letter

Tabs 3-19 - See Revick Forms

COORDINATIOS

EA/OEMLFOI

ISS/IPA/SCR

EUR/EXO

nex

DATE

11:2

30/9/27

30c722

SECAFT

---

## Page 46

=i..

16 loy 1975

ARIORA DEY FOR:

SUNJECT:

REFERENCE:

Chief, Information lovicy stast

Request No. 75-901

1. This Directorses maintaina e personality dossier

A roview of this file and other

records of this cirectorate reveal tie folloring infor-

natlon pertinent to Sabject:

A few iRI documents, tich are excluded

under 1900.3 (a) (4) of the Eodoral Peristor

office that raintains

the intornation on sinject is

unable to further ionify these documents.

b. Overt inforation provided hy a joint

Dopartnont of the Army and forcign liaison opera

tion abroail.

This material is considered exemot

under 5B (1) 08 8.0. 11552 And 1000.3 (x)(1) and

(3) 0f the Foileral Raristor.

Tio igency dispatches based on infor-

Frog unilateral

brons concerned Subject's travell

and ltaison cources a-

material is considored

exempt under: (b) (5) 08

FOlA 3nd 53 (1) OfF.D. 11652.

Ons memorandum to the FOI rerorced

Subject's travel as mentioned in paragraph 1.c.

nb0v0.

This material is consitored exompt for

reison seared

in plerap)

i.c.

inve.

2.

Form 3533 is attached.

!?".

M!

1rd 4'5

• Charles l.

Belugs

Chief, Serviços Stage

ilencisent

F357 3533

---

## Page 47

14-00000

ilias

Freedon of Intoration Coordinator

Contral tabellitores Agency

Lashingzon, U.C.

205CS

Gentlenais

Tho Office of tro Dopity attorio! General Iclerrad me to

A tormally roguest

Ci has about si.

i, rate is

to see iny and all incormation tha

Thank you

---

## Page 48

SECRET:

28 Nd6 875

NAIN PORS

SURVITE

RESTRAICES!

Chatrem, talorent lon levien Countsten

Mr. W.G. Boan, Speculive Socretary

POLA Appeal - Pallip A. Sligeran

Rogenet

dated I AprIl L9TS

Ors/ITo Nano dared 14 Hay 1975

DO/89. 175-110 dacod Se May 1973

Ins 79-401 dernd 30 May 1975

Appan!:

dated 26 Juna 1975

I OPS/ITG Maso dared 15 July 1973

Te laftial request and subnequent appeal by

Agoncy'e corruspondenco to hin, and cha docmence that percata

have been ruvieved and che documaca savlied ars on follo

tho

ni B 561, 11 Auguas 1969

HHMA-37509, 10 July 1969

€ I0M1A-37416, 23 June 1069

do Headquarters 876, 26 June 1969

•.

MRXICO CITY 329, 23 June 1969

ICICO CITY 330, 24 Juna 1969

R-3663, 24 Octobor 1969

TH-559888, 26 August 1969

Icem d, D.. aad C.

fros the lat la paragruph 1. vero cha beats of

che toltial reoponse and dontal

(Eafarenco d.). Its d.

and as do not meniton|

by nano bur are ralative and are tocluded

for background information.

The documers l.. 8- end do did nor loossa

evallabla itll afear the lalciel resposed

not considered la that reply.

Ou che basio of our revie, ve balleve iten d.. b. and e. ver

property enempred in sacord wIlh (D) (1) and (D) (3) Of Elia POLA end S3(1) OR

5.0, 11632. Thie was raported

ln Retorance d. on 30 Key 1975.

Wntalatrative-Ist0ra2. (se Only

iren Separated fron detachaante.

---

## Page 49

SECRET

Doinite the detafled explanation provided

ve note fa lils letter

of appeal that bo continuea to sual a baile lor cha ductason. Uita resara to

these jocusence, se ballove and agree thar rulesolng than

would violato procoction of sonairive doureso and sachode:

The oriminal

destal la correct and bould be upheld by the Icformacion Revien Corletes.

Our rever of the renaloing ibree documento (itons f., %. and ho)

has resulsed in the inliolag recimendations.

T- 559685. A passenset lat silch the Agency arparencly

obtatred through forolm liaicon

The asture of tia

Information

not porte negregating and releasias psita of tie l1ac

Ne believe the document 16 exampt under (b) (1), (b)(3) Of tie POLA and

58(1) of B.O. 11692.

MEXICO CITY 330. Provides

too sano inforation as R44A-17509

ans 18, therofore, exempo under the same execationa cited In the original

deutal. 1.*. (b)(1), (D) (3) and JB(1).

iX-3663. Ne ballera carrata suren of this 25-pazo document

can bo sagrogatas and rolaasad

No agres with ITS on

che selected portiona that should ba axirected for releano (onc attached

marked copy).

Tha balmoe of the documoce, bounvor, mat be considared

arept under (3) (J) (a) a1d (b)(6) of tha POLA:

In suncary, li la roconnended thai the appeal bo denled and eha

exasptions iphald on all tha rolated documents as liatod above except in che

casa 01 8X-3663. The saloctod portions should be sentelrau and provided to

OGi and levacura vich our doctatoa.

_ Thin recamandacion has born discussad wich

131

DUO Appeale Officer

Attachmenta: a/s

ISG/EXEC

30 July 1975

Distribution:

Urig.

& 1 - didressee

1 - ОСС (Мт. Макошка)

1 - C/IRS

2 = DDO/FIO

1 - ISG, w/o arts.

1 - Chrono, w/o arts.

2

---

## Page 50

14-00000

1811203

MENORISDON FOR:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Freedom of Infornation Officer, D00

IKS 7S-801 (Appeal)

Request foi

Agency ductients

Nttached

Pare the three Agony documents Listed in

our monorandua of 14 May 1975:

Agency dispatch INNW-37116,

dated: 23 June 1969.

This

covering dispatch does not sention subjcet by mone;

Subject's

Twas forwarded as an attachnent to

this disparch. Tro other attachaonts listing Subjeet's

JAMC

but

the reference to his travel

hid

beon incorporated into a Spocial Channel memorandur

to

the

FBI, S-501, dated 11 August 1909 (paragraph id of

our

14 May memorandum).

Agency dispatch INMa- 57509, dated 10 July 1909

listed requestor is i traveler

It also forwarded a copy

In an attachment which is not available hore.

Special Channel Memorandum B-561, dated 11

August 1969 (sce paragraph la abore).

2.

No bolicro that the bove mentioned documents have

been properly

exempted in our 14 May nomorandun under (b) (1)

5(B) (1) (foreign

liaison,

in this cass,

tho sections of

liaison) and: (b)(3).

The muterial is

not segregable for re-

lease,

as the miure of the information and its

format are

such that the requester could determine that the information

concerning hin was obtained by the Agency through surreptitions

Relerse would thus violate

protection of sensitive sources and nochods

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 51

CONSIDENTIAL

One more docaone (nos intoxed into thie 201 file or

in) other records of this office)

hus become availible:

Transmittal Manifest 599588, dated 28 August 19691

This manifest lists Subject mong passengers

_ No covering dispatch was used

and no source is siren,

but the information max be oresumed

to hire been provided by forcign linison

naterialias thus probably crompt under (b)(1), 5(8)(1)

(forcin liaison), and is cortainly crempt under (b) (3)

(intelligence methods).

The fornit and the nature

information do not maxe it feasible to segrogite and relcase

Attached is a segregable portion of internal Agency

memorandun Ex-5005e dated 2i October 1909. This document is

it 25 page paporl

refors briofly to requestor, repeating in part the reference

to requestors travel as reported in INMA- 37509 (Dareeranh

The exeised portion of the docent is considered

exempt under (b) (3)(a) ind (D)(G).

11s0 attached are copies of three additional Agency

lated 24 June 1909,

is refcrred to

in HMNl-57509 (paragraph lb above), and provides the samc

information (except for copies of passports).

The reference

this cable, in turn, is Headquarters 876, dated

traveling

urgently needed

for a paper being prepared for the White

louse.

This cable in

turn refers to

dated

Go was lor hich explains the kough heade arters ration

travels.

Although Hoadgurters 870

do not mention requestor by name they

attached for background information.

Chief, international Terrorisn Group

Operations staff

Atrichments:

it/5

---

## Page 52

Fion

YP conclutes

D.0. 283050

12881

this

crould lins to kin

bista for tols croistar.

erase coped the decidish to actor ye that I

• taxing

tie aeria de curscio

sincerate

---

## Page 53

14-00000

CoN

12 Decomber 1975

-MEMORANDUM FOR $

SUBJECT:

RE PE RENCE:

Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

Roquest No. 75-1161

1.: This Directorate meintains an officlal file on

Subject.

A review of thls file and other records reveals

the following information pertinent to subject:

Wenty-nine FBI documents. See attache

115ting.

Five Agency documents (one cable and three

dispatches) concorned Subjoce's travol and activitlos

abroad. and tranenieced InformationI

One special channel (B) memorandun forwarded

meterlal provided

to the FRI.

il, the material 19 Cond ors exempe under POTA, (b)

and (D) (3)•

c.

Five Agoncy documenta (one cable, three

dispatches,

srid one fold Information

report) т0-

corrod to Subfoet's travels

and nctivities abroad.

The nature of the inforuation could identify tho

source 1f 1t were released.

Cho RL memorandum, one

spoclal channel (B) memorandur and one CSCI memo

randum forwarded this Anforantion to the FBI.

Ono

CSCI mmorandun forwarded a report to the U. S.

Intelligence Cormnity.

All of this natorial 1o

considered oxempt undor (b) (J), sources and nethods

One agency dispatch forwarded Inforantion

on Sublect's activities abroad provided by a U.

source.

This mitorial 's exempt under HO!A

(b) (1) properly cisentfied and (D) (3), sources and

methods.

F2 IMPDET

CI BY 012170

CONFIOLA MAl

---

## Page 54

Pour Internal offico memoranda (EX) per-

tained to Subject's travols, contacts and activi.

clos.

The source of throo of these was information

from the FBI; the source of ono of theao was the

Deparimens of Seate nesorandum to CIA dated 1 Feb-

TUATY 19713

All of these are exempt under FOIA (b)

(J), sources and methods, and (b) (1).

One Incemal office memorandun contains a

Mating of Subject's foreign travel.

It was Caken

fron a composite of all-sourco information, In-

cluding foreign

sources and is

considered exe inder lolA (5), and and (bel.

One Internal office (EX) nemorandun con-

cerning subject's background and activitios, which

included material fron the FBI, an Agency fleld

Information report fron a unilateral source and

an Agency dispatch forwarding information provided

by a

This memorandum

considered exompt under 70IA (b) (3) and (b) (1).

The following docunents with sterilized segrasshlo

portions attached are considored relesseable to Subject

under the FOIA.

CSCI memorandun dared 17 May 1968:

oxcised

portions exempt under FOIA (h) (6), personal privacy, (h) (3)

and (b) (1).

b.

Incornal offico (BX) memorandum dated 14 July

19671

excised portions exempt under FOIA (b)(6),

personal privacy, (b) (3) and (h) (1).

Internal offico memotandum (EX) datod 26

Anril 1968:

excisod portions exempt under FolA (b

(o) personal privacy, (b) (3) and (b) (1)

Incornal office menorindun (RX) dated 10

excised portions erempt under FOLA (b)

(6), personal privacy, (b) (3) and (b) (1).

0.

Attachment to a dispotch dated 23 November

1970:

excised portions exempt under (h) (6), personal

privacy and (b) (1).

Dispatch arenot under (b

"sources

and

methods and

(b) (1).

---

## Page 55

1021

Dispatch dated as November 1965: excise

portions exempt under FOIA (5)(1) and (D) (S)

Attached aro coples

three documonts which

may be

used In obtolning revlove by the originating

arencilos:

Departmene of Army • ACSI-DSCC Nomorandu

dated a July 1966

• Subjoct:

Transnietal of. Sun-

marlos of Inforation.

Department of Stare

toleras Coponhagen

2014 dated 21 November 1967

Departnent of State manorandum dated 1

February 1971 from Director, Passport Office re-

garding Subjeet.

d.

FBI.

Cablo fron Director. FBI, dated 6

November 1968, Subject:

8..:

^1. 11235

Charles A.

Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

Attachments:

cc :

OPS/ITG

i

---

## Page 56

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 57

visto

20000-21

---

## Page 58

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 59

Mr. Robert S. Young

Freedon of Information Coordinator

Central Inteliigence Agency, Wachington

Dear kr. Young,

Thank you for your letter of ipril 24, 1975, acknowledging

my Freedon-of-Information request.

Horo to the addittonal Informution you ask fors

Placo of birth

Date of birth:

The FBI, in a similar reply to a sinhlar request,

anted sy locial Security number, which you may also need.

also

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sinceroly.

ArR 29 7 50 AN °75

---

## Page 60

STATES

UNITED

O AMERICA S

CIT

April 11, 1975

- 5.

Mr. 'Inbart S. Young

CIA Froodon of Information Coordinator

CIA Edatra

Langley, Va.

Deark, Young,

Pursuart to the provisions of the Freedom of

Intoraation Act,

please make available to me any materials

or fians the CIA may have collected and kept on my activin

ties.

Sincerel

SLAHY IT Y

9| 124

---

## Page 61

0: Deccaber 1077

MERRINDUS FOR:

ARTEVEION:

SORTRET

NUTRINCIS

Carioran,

Tofornation Farick Cohittee (U)

Assistane for Inferention (V)

1010 tried

(FIS. 1100) (U)

Original Roguese Moreil 1l April 1975 000)

11'5

Response dised 19

February

1976 (V)

Speat letter dared ca Tearedo 1976

(V)

a.

initially releasi

information fron six 090

nurer ed persions.

lenied in

Release portions of cighe 100 domints initialiy

1010.

sustain the denial in coco of 13 ano documenes.

Release in coro sine nous irons

1d8:1nts

discovered turing the appeals

and scion bno

ridick.

Naily

ine Greats revich.

in soro 15 no dorments discovered during

Rolonce.

Macedered during the appealersions of ino lo dones

revier.

(U) Rackeround:

calcria

on 11 goril 1975 rogueried "ay

De files die ClA may lose collared

and leine

redivities."

cn

the original tho

doebronts,

29 FBI files.

27 DIO

one

FBI. cuble and three other-

IPS responded on 19 February 1976

---

## Page 62

releasing six of the DDO documents

in segrecated versions

and denying the remaining 21.

Ips advised

that the

non-DIO doctronts were being referred to the

originating agencies for direct response to him.

requestine fall retire

appealed on 24 Fobruary 1976

"fill withhold dirts,

anil this

triggered in

additional

scarch with the colluring restles:

(1)

carlier

items,

not considered under

(2) 15 a resule of an exchange of referrals

between the 100 and the oys, mo accented responsibility

Far che documense dorred ty Tabs 28, '36, 32, 33

rerich-1.c. those covered by

(3) 1s a result of a Privacy Act request levied

on the Psy

the litter referred three

000

memoranda, per P 76-180

Tio

of these--CSCI

316/02677-67 and ASC 516/05757 67. -had not previously

surfaced, but the third had been handled initially

under Tab

19(H).

ke informed the FBl le would

handle the former ino in the appoal.

re-checking

(2) and leiles and running down referenies.

additions have resulted in a total of si 100 docunents

heing treated in this appeal

in increase of 24 since

she IP'S response, and nine picco items.

(5) Four EX menoranda--895,

referred

to the FBI

1070, 1076 for

2197 and 3363-.

coordination regarding FBI information therein.

The

FBI replied on

28 Morober 1076 rowarding portions to be

withhold and excaptions to he applied.

FUTA -48,789 daied 6 Decenher 1965 (Tab 20)

on 5 October 1976

for

Air Force data therein.

The

Air Force responded on 29. Octoher 1976 relcasing its

input.

---

## Page 63

3

in addition to those:

sarch,

sore discovered.

DHC: 02029 and 068-80223 Note reierred to the FRI

on socrober 1976 for direct contect with the requester,

and in- 24857 wis similarly forried on 26 April

Three State Department doctrents were

formanded to the Bureau of Püblie Arrairs

October 1926.

Two of those were stare

amre.aed to the cia.

hisporanda

Posapore rillrion 26 Derober

to advise that both had alrcade been referred

The third document-rab althy. tsas clcared

for release br the same telephone call.

c .

A classificition

review has heen conducted on all

No docunones.involrad in

this apped,

all have been

maked to reflect this rovier.

in those cases where

scarecat on of roar does ade beer release, such

has been identified ind

reconnonded for

In Chose cases whore

the documents have been

denied in toro, meningful

segregation of non-excupt

data pertaining so him has not

been feasihle.

3.

(U) Recommendations:

See Tabs 12-45.

this nor ma ho thee me too coordinated

the office of the General Counsel.

Do Appeals miricer (U)

Artachments:

Tab

R

References

Tabs 12-18

-- As Stared

---

## Page 64

put 10240440

STATES

UNITED

Mr. Gene F. Wilson

Informntion and Privacy Coordinator

•Central Intelligence Agency

Hashington, DaC. 20505

HE: FOIA Appeal

Dear Mr. M11501,

By letter dated 11 and 26 April 1975, I asked for

ny file. By letter dated, 19 February 1976, you respogred

with sore of the requested documents.

However, some

censored and others were withheld altosethe..

I hereby

appeal: these deletions

I look forward to hearing from you within 20 dayn,

as required by law.

Sincerely.

MAR 1 2 12 FHI

---

## Page 65

14-00000

CONFIDSATIAI

164

29 Decenber. 1975

MEMIRANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, IPS

Request No. 75-4681

This Directorate maintains a file

The Policing paragraphs describe the

driciments held by this Directorate which refer to her and her specific

assoclation with the

The docuents listed below are from the FBI and are exempt per

1900.3(g)(4) of the Federal Register.

"Cormittee of Returned Volunteers

dated

" July 1969, from Washington, D.C., no flie number.

Committee of Returned Volunteers (CRY):, dated 27 August 1969, from

Hashington, D.C., no file number.

c.

"Committee of Returnes Volunteers (CRV)

dated 11 September 1959, from Mashington, D.C., no file number.

di

dated: 24

September 1969.

Constitee of Returned Volunteers"

no file numer.

SM-R1!

dated Zi Fetruary 1973, from New York, M.V., Flie numper 107-339735-416.

f. "Comittee of Returned Volunteers"

• dated 14 July 1970,

file nurber: 109-45751.

There Is one Departnent of State letter, which is a request fron

the Passport Office Por Information of a security nature pertinent

dates 1 February 1971. ne Pile nunher.

although this letter

1s expluded under 1900.3(g) (4) of the leveral Segister, a copy is attached

for referra? to the State repartmont.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY C12170

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 66

2-49g

CONFIDENTIAL

4..

The following documents may not be passed

One Agency menorandum dated 11 Auqust 1969 and one

Anency cable dated 24 June 1969 which contain Information

and are exempt per (b)(1), (b) (3)(a) anc

(b) (3)(Б) of the FOlA and 5(D)(1) of E.0. 11652.

b.

Two Agency dispatches dated 23 June 1969 an1 10 July 1969

which

contain information from the same source as. In paragraph 43

above. The same exemptions apply.

5.

The following three Items may be passed

coples

are attached for each.

In all cases.

the excised portions are exempt per

(b)(1) (b)(3)(a). (b)(3)(b) and (b)(6) of the FOlA.

a. One Agency memorandum dated I Decenber 1971.

b. One Agency dispatch dated 6 December 1971.

c. One Agency dispatch dated. 30 November 1971.

E. Form 3533. 1s also attached.

Charles A.

Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

Attachment:

As Stated Above

---

## Page 67

14-00001

August 7, 1975

LOG

Kobert Young

Freedom of Information Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Young,

I understand that under the Freedom of Information Act that an organ

can seck disclosure of any and all information and documenta

that the Central Intelligance Agency may have collected pertinent to

lts activitles.

As the prestdent of the now inactlve , but still existant

I would

request any intormation

and documents that concern

the organization.

Also, as an individual I would like to request any Information cocerning

my activities.

I would appreciate iny relevant inforation that

you could send along.

I look forward to your reply

and well as in ressads to mayself.

sincerelv.

---

## Page 68

SEGRET

19 September 1977

ATTESTION

SURJICT

REFERENCES

chairman, Information Revicw Connitfce (V)

Mr. 11. G. Bean, Assistant for Information (U)

FOld Appcal

Initial Request dred 7 Angust 1975 (0)

Clas Response dared 6 April 1926 (U)

C.

Appeal Letter dated 5 Way 1976 (U)

(U) Summary of Reconmendations:

Release additional information fron three documents

initially

releisod

segregaied form.

Deleted

tre excepted under (600, 06(3) and (606 eForens

b..

sustain initial donial in coto of four documents

under exenptions (b)(1),

(b) (3) • (b) (0) and (b) (7) (C)

of the folA as applicabic.

c.

Rolease in segregated form tachty one documents

discorcied in

the appeal process.

Deleted portions are

exempted under (b) (b) (b)(3), (b)(6) and (b)(7) (C) of

the FOlA as applicable.

Deny in toto seven documents diat here located in

the appeal review.

These documents are bring denied under

exemptions (b) (1), (D) (3), (B) (0) and (b) (?)(C) of the FOlA.

0001e.

Pass in into six overt documents located during

the appeal revich.

Refer. to the FBI for their action

list of nine idditional FBi roports

tha. wore located

on identification

during the appeal review.

Refer one document located during the appeal review.

to the Department of the Army for their

action.

CONFICTIT

Detached From

Allachments-

---

## Page 69

Julics

2.

(U) Background:

CIA

3.

requesting

On ? August 1975,

wrote the

consern..:

" an organization called the

remany info calied and documents that

Tis

Ms. Barnes explained that thei

"an inactive, but still existant" research

croup of which she is. the president.

Jalso

stated::

o..as all individual I would like to request any

information concerning my activities."

b.

The 6 April 1976 response

seven Do

documents

form.

were being relcased in

stated

sanitized

This memorandum also stated that FBI and State

Department documents had been surfaced in our search

and that these were beine referred to the originating

igency for action.

was also informed of her

right to appeal.

C.

On 5 May 1976,

appealed.

At che initial revier, the search was limited to

information about

including any association

with ther

_ During the appeal review

the search was broadened to include any information about

regardless of

association with it. This

later search located additional

•documents which are included in this appeal package.

3. (U) Recommendations:

Tah A-1 contains nine overt documents that I

recommend be released

in 10t0.

Tah A contains the DDO documents that were

considered

in this

appeal case.

The Appeal Review Form

attached

to each of the documents reflects. my recommendations

concerning the release of the information in the document.

All meaningful, non-exempt information applicable to this

request has been identified and is recommended for release.

A classification review has been conducted on each of

the DDO documents reviewed in this appeal Case.

A DDO

officer with national security classification authority

has asserted that each document is

marked

in

accordance with E.D. 1as?) as herdeshried

as amended.

and

SECTIO

---

## Page 70

SLUNLI

3-

Tab C contains the identification of nine

FRI docunents that vere surfaced during the appeal

search.

I recommend this list be referred to the Fil.

for their action.

d.. Tab D contains a document that originated with

• the Department of the Army.

I rocommend that it be

returned to the Army for their action.

Tab E contains a copy of the document that wis

referred to the Department of State for their action. and

a list of the FBl documents that were referred to the

FRI for action on 10 March 1976.

These documents were

surfaced

at the initial review search.

Tab F contains an FBI document that contained

classified information

furnished by the ClA.

FBI referred the document to the CiA for revier. A full

text copy and a copy as approved for relense are atrached.

The tuo Cla documonts that here surfaced by the FBI ind

forwarded co. the CIA for action are included as docurents

32 and 35.

4.

(U)

those

reconmendations.

OGC has not yet concurred in

Diler it Sheen

Helen H. Stilson (U)

DDO Appeals Officer (U)

Attachments:

- References A through C

Tab A-1 - Documents to be released in toto with appeal

-Dop documents reviewed at aupeal level

• Documents for referral to FBi

- Document to be reforred to Department of Army

- nocunents referred with initial review

SECRE

---

## Page 71

May 5th

Gene F. Wilson

CIA Information Review Conmittee

CLA

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear It. Wilson,

On August 7, 1975, I made a request to the CIA under the

Freedai on Information Act-foi Information, and documents

_ By letter dated

April 6, 1976, the agency aged to release a newspaper clipping

and three censored documents. The remainder of the reguested docunerta

were witheld.

I hereby appeal the agency's denial of my request for

documents on the ercunda that the exciptions relled upon do not

apply to the requested docurents.

In reviewing whether classifled information

is tidd property classilied and thereior

exchipted from disclosure uner subsection (b) (1) , you should be

aware that thel

fomally Lisbended three years ago.

In audtion, I have renson to believe that the agency's initial

reply: 15 incomplete. .

In particular. the documents released by the agency e

contain only one publication

_ Thie documents already released

Indicate that the agency was at least aware of ötherl

publicatiers®

I hereby request a copy of any catalogue, list or Index of these publications.

As to any documents or portion of documents which are witheld

after this appeal, I hereby request:

(a) specification as to whether the material pertains to

or to the

(b) as to material withled on the basis of exemption (b) (5),

names of any other agency which initiated or received copies of

Inter agency memoranda; and

(c) as to the material witheld on the basis of exemption (D) (7)

the authority

Central Intelligence Agency and the function of the investigation.

May 1!

? 43 PH "76

Nirverely

---

## Page 72

2 October 75

NEMORANDUN FOR:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Chlof, Informacion and Privacy Staff

Request No. 75-5747

This Directorate has no file on

Two Asoncy documents, however

were surfaced. These

documonts

aro denlos undor (b)(l),

as being proporly

lasgifiod under F.O. 11652 and (U) (3) (sources and

methods) FOIA.

Release of the portion concerning

Subject would

probably Identify the source to him.

Thus ,

documents must be denied in full®

10/ carto: . 966d9

Charles A. Briggs

Chiof, Sorvices Stast

E2 IMPDET

CL

SY 012170

COWaRFATI

---

## Page 73

SEP 5

144 PH *75

125.75-5742

Freedom of Information Act

Robert Young CIA Cordinator

CIA:

Wasbington D. C.

20505

Dear Sira:

I bave reason to bolieve the CIA may bave a record I1le on

me •

106

SER PCH

In 1961 I was a momber of a

Since I was. a devote anti-communint at tho timo ind

never accomplished anything), I'm

courious to see If enthing la in print roganting my 8o oalled

wild oats! days and under the Froedow of Information Aot

I hearby respootfully request a copy of any possible filoo

Respectfull

---

## Page 74

..2!

& December 1975

ME LIRANDUM POR

Chairan, Inforation Revier Connittee

ATTENTION:

NE. H. G. Bean, Assistant for Information/DDA

SUBJECT:

DIA (peal

REFERENCES:

A.

Original Request, dated 1 Sep 75

B:

Reply to Subject, dated 29 Oct 75

C. ippeal letter, dated 10 Nor 75

Summary:

It is recormended that the initial denial as stated

in our reply of 29 Oct 75 be affirmed, based on Title 5,

U.S.C. 552(b)(1), (5) (3) and (b)(0) as applie to the specific documents

mentioned herein.

2.

Background:

a.

on him.

initial request bas for a copy of any Agency file

The original search revealed to documents

Jwas denied the document in toto.

appeal states that he is perplexed at why the

documents were denied hin and requests the documents so that he can

correct any possible misinformation in the record.

3.

The tso docieents are:

Agency dispatch UrGe 2192, 23 uug 61

on ANCIEER/! meno

of conversation

and others who

I This dociment is denied under

(b) (1) properly classified, (b) (3) protecion of sources and methods

and (b) (6) protrition of the privacy of others. A representative

of lal Division does not wish to declassify this dispatch, and I concur.

Agency menorandim CSCI 3/707455 dated 4 pet 61 is a memoranium

to the FBI containing the information in UFGI ?192 plus file traces.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

This document must he denied to protect the former deep cover asset,

This document is denied under (b)(1) proper classification,

(b) (3) protection of sources and methoils and (b) (6) protection of the

privacy of others. A representative of l' Division does not wish to

declassify chis memorandum, and I concur.

Reconnendation:

It is recommendel that the initial denial as

stated

in our reply of 29 Oct 75 be reaffirmed, based on Title 5.

U.S.C. 552(6) (ka (b) (3) and (b)(6) as stated above.-

S.

J00C has concurred in the above.

DIO Appeals Officer

Attachments:

A.

References

B.

Agency dispatch UFG4 2192,

23 Aug 61

C.

Agencj memo CSST 3/767,435

---

