# 104-10220-10002

## Page 1

104-10220-10002

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUANTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONJITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE:

c- 56216

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

C1/04

ROON:

DELETIONS, IF APY:.

DATE

RECEIVED

WATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

¡OT PEVIEWED BY HISCA.'

NO DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REBOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

FEr -:

SECRET

(52+9

1101od 10)

#A1₴

CASA B0.

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEET

Proceoaing Soction

PLEASE TARE

THE FOLLONING

AC-THON

ON PHI

"Honorhao sofon loo dindlasdeo

SEI UP ADRI

DDA WITHA

AHOVE.

'tit ic

CI100100

ISSUN DPEBATIDNAL APPHOVAL

ASUR FDOVIBIONAL

OPANATIONAL APPROVAL

INTE BT10A900N

STILA OUT&TANDING

FOODARO ATTACHATNT TO DIVISION

NOFICKI

109

₴*0

PRETANE CARCRLLATION

Fort:

ViLn

NEAAA!

PPK/Uws mis 21 Fch5s

DAV$ UHTIA

M18980090 000GI8E0D0B

1000or.Cay(00998998earee

HEOURAT

TAACES

HUOUDBT DDUNATIGGAL D DIV. PRACKS

#AGUES!

T+OLO TOACE#

GIQUAAY

DEQUNSY ADDITIONAL DIDGAAPHIE INFO

DROUGST GOREN LABT

PUNNISS GRACH LIST INFORMATION

AGOUIBY DEBUTS DE TRCH, INTERHOBATION.

DEMO "DUCAY" MINO YO DIVISION

OTMAN (BaO PeRortO)

SECRET

Re Pia saiah xána, c1o,77÷

(218

:as''u,al, Jiaininiã)

---

## Page 3

SECRET :

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT:

C-56246

1. The Chief, CI/QA, le hereby advised that the PP/C/UWG

has no: further present interest in the subject individual.

2. PP/C/UWG wishes to express appreciation for the prompt

assistance rendered by C/CI/OA on this casé. It was especially

advantageous in view of the short time with which contact associated

with the subject was available. I

1:/ il

Chief

Unconventional Warfare Group, PP Staff

CANCELLED

Fro 2 6 1958

COPY TO SECURITY

Enc

FeB 21

2 26 PH 38

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET :

19 February 1959

MORAINA JOR, Chief, Paychologdonl and Puramlltary Mart

ATTENFIONA

0. 56966

L. Raference 10 nado to your request dated 6 Jamary 1958

for a Proviatonal Opurettoonl Approval for Subject.

Maase advisa CI/0A as to the otosun of this case. Ua-

leas a soply 1s coreived fros you vithin thirty days, this come

will be clood and the file forunded to RI Arghlves.

Cates, E/DA

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SUBNECT

ABIAL, 1O FEMAN GLINT AND HE NCAMEL ORDERI

ALIASES, VARIANI SPLLLINGS, CIC BUMPERS, ETC.

*. BIRTM PLACE

United States

B- PRESENT ACTIVITE AND LOCATION

NoB wOrkIng.

Plans to

return to

Middle East to obtain aircraft

pilot Job. any company.

7. OCCUPATIOMAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Alreralt Pilot

'' JAS:"

RE 'ONSE TO GRES 21S5

REQUEST NO.

& January

DATE OF REQUESP

195Ak-

REQUEST FROM

WANT OF ORIGIMATINE OFFICER

OFFICE DESICHATON PP/UG

ROOM, BUILDING 2403 K

•EXTENSION 1737

1D. WAS CONTINUING SEARCH RENESTEDY

— 10

1SC TYPE OF REQUEST

• FIAST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

COVER NAME

16. INTEREST IN SUBJECT

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

* OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

ОТНЕЯ

17. INFORMATION REQUIRED

0. MILITART SERVICE

Uninowa

PAST OCCUPATICOS

SPECTANY

LOCAL IRE

ACTEVET

TAY

on"

DATES

LOCATION

-tH T1992"

• into.

10. DESCRIPTION

(MEICHT)

(NEIGHT)

11- SPOUSE (OF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN MAME)

Divorced

• no date

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

children

13- ONER SIGRIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

(EYES)

(MAIR)

) =:.. (RACE)

(OTHER)

ATTACH EXTRA SHCETS WHEN WEEDED

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON:

FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FID.

SEE CS1-10-7

• Ву 508 116

1B9 4416:

W8&2.

SECRET

—and a code salint

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

TO: Waredel

FROM: 11/0 %

A.

B.

2 January 1258-

D.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/SID BIOGMAPHIC FILES.

A MEMOPANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

MITM THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST,

STO IS UMABLE TO DETERMINE MICHER THERE 1S INFORMATION

ABOUT TME SUBJECT OR NOT.

FI/STO HAS NO PERTINENT INFOMMATION CA SUBJECT. IF A

CONTIAUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTLO IN SECTION

INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE PEPORTED TO YOU

AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E.

THE SUSJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS AFPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF

THE

FOLLOWING:

Ve have a Zecurity Office request on subject.

The following 'Now York Ilies Articles refer to the Subjects

MOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

I**;

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, 'WITH.

THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/STO.:.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/STO THE SHEETS

FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST

TO DEMAND A CONTINUING

NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FIST'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES

FOR INFORMATION THAT IS HOT REQUIRED.:

TO::

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

MAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOK.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

(Rea Filled In)

TO

FROW

APPROVAL REQUEST

Deputy Diroccor of Security

Aben

Chief,

/Operation Fro

** nitro

and SupPort Division

C-56246

SUBJECT:

No.

153126

TYPE

1.0.

Jens

ANDICES RESULTE REQUESTED OY

As Soon Au Possiblo

AHEA OF SUBJECT'S ASSIONMENT

B. UNE OF SUOJIET

Contact and Assessmant

WHOSTAGATION NOT

TO REVEAL®

FATE

6 darary 2958

PROJECT

aT (D010)

9. HE PHOD OF MAN0L10€

APADITE

80I CHECK

As Soon As Possible

COVIA SUGGESTEO

FOR

INVESPIRATION

PIGLO PRACES

TRACKS

ATTACHHENTS

REMARAS

GHEEN LIST INITIATED

PC

EXCOTTE

Date_

$ 084

693

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

6 JanUary 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

Request for POA

1.

It is requested that POA bo furnished on

tho lollowing individual for contact and

asseesment

with a view of the Agency's use of this Individual

In tho 11old:

2. It would be approciated if this POA

could be expedited in ao much as ll la anticapated

that a meeting will be held & January 1958 with

regard to contact with thin individual.

Chief

Psychologleal and Paramilitary Staff

---

## Page 9

CHIEF, CI/OA

08р00 -BY

SECRET-

(17, a1

N12=89)

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION OF APPROVAL

FRON

FRAly Start

Good de lion of

ВНОВ)

4-00 0 118

PROJICT

PLACE.

30 January 1957

солод на.

C-56046

GATE OF SITT

REASONINT FOR CANCELLATION

will not be employed.

Т 38 РА 57

Di otribution:

Adatessoo • Ortg. & 1 ec.

FE/AIR

+166.

CH

• 1. co.

IP BUBIRCY IS'USED IN ANY CAPACITY.

40. 937

В ВА# 5А

RA

A MIN SIGURAT FOR APPROVAL

SECRET

MHA.A:8MH98 883 490000.

1 888

---

## Page 10

CIA INTERMAL USE ONLY

SECRET

PERSONALITY A3O+Y FILE REQUEST

TO

FROM

(T DA

wood so.

6= 50010

ECTION JACK

PULAHORE

INSTRUCTIONS:

Porn nort do 14p0d

MAlACON IN

•ah, rio, odd old a darion

0 or 900l e8

On All. One a copace Paro, Onese cho is damone mod craptora

SECTION 101: To Do

SECTION

THEN BRMH

409. 9850808149

хог то.

SOURCE

DOCUMENT

14:24

MAMT

RYANAL YSIS "CO

perrary

UPON RECEIPT

DESTROYED

MACHINE LISTING

Use InT

11 P.

CODE

SECTION 11

562/266

COUNTRY DE RESIDENCE

10.

ACTION DAM!

fE

COMMENTS JESTICTED CION TILDEE I EINS FILIS?

SECTION DIL

AND COUNTRY INTEREST ID. SO COVETEY MATERIAT

SEP 2G 1551

1201.

80. B31 M61P100s

0810107#

10 5Đ8

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

€ #a0

---

## Page 11

•MEROBADDUN FOR:

NC/1XR

23 SaN 3488

C1/0p911110191 Approval and Support Dilalon

SUBJECT:

the Subjace hat

Your requene suend roco do dar 195 orrien so Securfer agral

coon proconuud by

2e Tho regulso of

thts action are tranomitted herowith.

30 P2ea30

oro pora rach 4 of tho attachod somo fron tha tc0za11

81e0, she roln it to coquoated that thay bo caviner shothos on me se

vant to continuo your inioroat in Subicot.

Attachment:

SO MEMO 20 Jan 295%0

Diossibution:

1 Addressee

$ 8110

SECRET

don e9.

300

900.02:40

108D

---

## Page 12

14-00000

TC:

Tnicesaing Sactdon

SECRET

pnecene

f.llpt

INSTRUCTION SHEET

1/19/57

PLEAIE FARE 15F

E TINTTISTNE, ACTICAS DA TRE EISE SET TONTT ADOVE.

(AlOOTO EA.D

•aOdA• BOldO lOr Dia C0t1en9 eR deldeles

CASE NO.

0-56246

SET UP PDR:

FOA WÜPHI

B6T UEFOQ,

Do GeaC.

ISSUE OFEGATIONAL APPROVAL

IBRUE POOVISIGAAL OPETATIONAL APEDOVAE

REQUEJTDI TBACEA

REQUEST

R&QUAS:

FIELO TRACES

THACES

esuf 10 feen

FORDARO ALTACHARAT TO SECURITY

POTICEO-.

La 840

"OEPARE CANCELLATION FORH

ВЕНО ТО ПЕРДОСМІЦЕВ.

FI&E

EXTERD POA FOR

DAYS UAPIL

REQUEST

#IQUEST ADDITIONAL DIOGRAPHIC INFO

DEOVEST GAEEN LIST

FURNITH GREEN GIBT INFORMATION

REQURST RESUETS OP TECH. INTERHOGATION

BENO "QUEHY" IEMO TO OIVISION

OTMEA (S00 deodrlo)

yu it nert t aegiet.

your intereat in Duljeet.

•0. 707

88

SECRET

6808

---

## Page 13

4-00000

° 50263.

SEGRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

70

Chirt, CI/OA

DATE:

1 U JAN 1957

FROM &

Deputy Director of Security (Invcotlantions ind Sunnort)

SUNJECT!

C-56246

F153126

do Rocoroneo 1a mace to you accornndus daled 30 Morenbor

1556 rheroin a Provisional Corert Security Ayrroril und a Corert w

Seerity Approvil vere requerted for intial evniuntion and orloy-

sent of Subject under ProJect

Your attontion le directed to information arallable to

"our office located In RI file $200-7-32-66 which In the result of

TEl Invostiention dated 26 October 1943 under Subject's nanc. Is

short, this file roflects inforntion rerarding Sundoet's

Additionally,

RI fIle $201-1424 contrina FPI reports doted In 1950 and 1951 whereln

ouestionnilo Infornatior regerdine Subjoct's activities and ment'l

competence ia set forth.

In vlew of the infornation set forth above, a Protiolonni

covert sceurtty Amproval cennot be pranted prior ta commletson of

extensite inquiries in this case.

In light of the highly questionable

Inforantion as set forth in RI sourcos, lt la rooucated that the

Interested division five due consideration em to the leaalbllity of

continuing Interent in retaining Subject's Berticos.!

Pending your

enrice as to the continunnce of the division'e

Interest la this cose, so further notion la conterpanied by this

ortice.

JOR TH: DIFICIOR OF SECURITY:

SECRET

---

## Page 14

PETS

SECRET

Failod Ins

DATE

IT LEust

TO:

INSTRUCTION SHEEV

Processing Section

PLEASE TAKE THE FOLLOMING ACTION ON THE CASE SET FORTH AHUVE.

BAT UP TORI

РОА #1TН:

•A IA I О

BUT UP FOR!

OPRRATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVABIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ANVEBTIGATION

STILL JUTSTAHOING

FORMAND ATTACHNENT TO DIVISION

FONTARD AITACHHLNY TO SECURITY

NOTICE!

PREPANA CANCELLATION PON

ВЕНО ТО ВАРАЙСНІЧЕД!

PILE

ARQUEST DI TRACES

REQUIRST ODERATIORAL A DIV. TRACEB

REDESS FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

REQUEST ADDIPIONAL DIOGRAPHIC IATO

RECURST GANEN LIST

FURNITA GREEN LUST INPORMATION

BEQUESY RISULTS OF TECH. INTERNOGATION

SEND "QUERY" MINO TO DIVISION

DAYS UNTIL

OTHER (S0o Menacho)

Send bat s0

• TEO SA

N6G. 707

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

10 Decenius 195t

MENORANDUM FOR: Crilet, CI/0A

SUBJECT:

6-56216

20i1-2164.32

Transmittsd herewill do two copies of additional

Blographic Inforce ion, Judt racired an this Divlelon ou

the avoid subject.

It la regreated that one cout of the ilographic

Inforuation be forueried to 0s/S:2, attentios:

Distribution:

Addresace - Orig. & 1 cc.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

WIL AM TARSPORT

Date beatred t

PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT ...U...!

APPLICATION FOE IMPIOYMENI

Hitts + be

Dale ol Applialion

COPY 3-12/7/56

(l-nat)

Attach photograph taken

within pant 19 montha.

1a. Name in full:

h. in note languagy

(Firal)

Intruelinne

Type or priat

all Browers.

All quentiona

munt be answered fully,

aumcione aparo has not been

provided

complole gour an.

swer andor Item 30 or on a

parale page.

Pontant Artiloso

Nome at birth, il Jiterent frum above

Ja. Marital Status

I Single

2b. Have you ever boon hnown by any uthor names

I Merried

D ta

LI No

38.

To Widowed

Il answer la "f'es", five nemo, time, plare and circumatances

CJ Dirorced

under Isom Na 10

[J Separaled

&b.

Parmanent home addreas and Telephona No.:

Sano se in Ma immediataly predeeding

Date of birth (Month, day, y0=0)

#.

(.) tomato

Place of hirer lier auntri

10. Color uf eyes

Blue-Grey

18.

Describe any pocial or outsianding characterlatics or identifying marks

None

16 PREVIOUS ADDRESSES DURING PAST TEN Y BARS

Beret

Height

See fe.

iT. Colur of hair

krown and Grey

2.

in.

Holghe

1000.

12.

Complexion

Falp

City

Country

16.

liot eash country of whtch you have been a citin girlug dates and mann

Country

•of acquisition of each citisenahip.

How Citmonship was Acquired

Pamport

Particulars

Jesuing auboris, Üs Dept. os Stare

Date of lasue

Pansport No

Validity Period

Valid for countrien All but Red Floc:

Othere None

Socal Seeurity Na

Labour Inaurance sa

(Crisen Certificate Na

None

None

NAME

WIFE-CHILDREN (Include Prior Marriage)

DATE UF BIRTH

PRESENT ADDRE88

10. (0) FATHER'S NANE

(d) PRESENT ANDRESS

Deceaged

(0)

NATIONALITI AT BIRTH

USA

1O. (8) MOTHER'S NAME

(d)

PRESENT ADDRESS

Decenaed

(1) NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

USA

OCCUPATION

Rome Economiat

Student

Stident

House-wrecker (7)

ID DATE ON BIRTH

(6) PLACE OF BIRTH ((ry. Country)

1*)

PRESENT OCCUPATION

Deceared

Le PRESENT NATIONALITY

L' 5A

1b) DATE OF BIRTH

(E) PLALE OF BIRTH (Car Connore)

(0). PRESENT OCCUPATION

Deceased

# PRESENT NATIONA ITY

so are on taradi

---

## Page 17

can a .

sualness or riparice

Anime isinant, rissy, Cording,

Indicate relationship or inconoze of ariudalaneo.

Namo

Relatlunal, a

None

amadon dia decode earrot d a go here go are to recited or foo

'arsier la "Yes" dira full detaile undor liam No. 309,

Telephon

oU.

Tao Chia space for completing anamoro to any of the forepare rectiona numbering anaero du curre

It nevasary use peera absolo of pager the garga stro 9e taís cra

Any Adultional information which you may wist lo sid:

The applicant 13 woll more that the work record herein does lack but one year. i'd be

glad to furnion the comuary an exhaustive account of my employment back to 19351

There 1a Little purpose to be served in thia, houever.

never have I bald a position for longer than one year|

There le no way um a can deny on obrious fact:

I seen a poor flas for consideration as a pernanent employee.

Yet time has traunatically

cured me of "get richluick" chemes and I'll not be easy prey of anvone lo the crient

who holde out an

extra hundred a month ae bair.

old to be a co-pilot in most countries and unions, seniority rights, ot ol,

are grodually

procluding my hiring out as

CAT aisy be my last chance for a fino job.

1f you do hire me and I do leave, for whatever reason, there will bo litile

doubt in the minds of those concerned but tia. I will have done my beat..

CaNTIFICATE OF COKKECTNISS

Pale Sestcaon on 1aio Application is Casso lur 'ormination.

I DO BOLEMNLY AYFIRM THAT THE INFOUSATION CLUTAINED HEALIN IS COLLECT.

Dada

ass drawally wallos and wit

• B

---

## Page 18

NAME

#l.

RELATIONSHIP| NATIONATITY!

UrUPATION

Hono

88.

Liat any close relatives

(father. mother, brother, sister,

husband, wifo, children) mo are empluyed by any abodey of

any national or any local guvernment.

Name

Reistionship

Name and addrena of governmens arency

None

89, Languagra (Nanse arl indicato she extone of jour competenco, d.a.,

Excellent, (wod, Falr)

(a) Langunzo

(s) Nead

1o) Undereland

14.

86.

l'ocalional qualißcatune (Larence, certicate, cle.) L

Ten the tub sare rare der to sure elded saudin yanot ura place usa da

do and doto state in the United State, place of readio in to Unto syre de lace and ot of operaco,

Country

Babas

-Purpos

Trem

Meniborahip Liat socíetics,

associations, clubs and other organisetions of which you are now or have boon a menber.

89.

Mit for a roule an all do a rent, sire front even of corico, unis or arranizatios, apo

Namos and Locationa of Secondary and lahor

Educational lentitutione Allooded

EDUCATION

Prom Dares Acondod

MaJor Subfact

JULi

---

## Page 19

14-00000

• EO ESPIOTMENT

1l, Job nyniliad tes:

P1lot

22(a) llavo yue oow on orer had iny pbysen de

Oun eot aapiee ciago petr

(0) Haemesdo n boe orador (e) Havo soe erer hed tuberre

tional diaordas!

Ne

No

Ter

No

(8) Meate tihe ost 18 o 1a hato Jou tregpaeoliy woed

(o) Were you ever mudlenlly or diabonorsbly discharged from

the armad forems?

Tam

No. X

Yol Por aforendld wounde

(1) Il deg el pesr anarers to apy al lhe abore la "'Yes" firo full partiçuiara ander ltems 89.

da O o Olt aad oa pogetl e rone, ot aeiatas do g0u j? lcodot p are, o o par plate uiar)

a anpumr to goatios Ne. 19.

Addron

Obeupation

ortaiet de cotiaettim"

Nc ap

ain ihaio or biove hut la say cramty (084, Der Desl, ete)

Chorzael

---

## Page 20

10

Atten

FROM

SUBJECT:

SECRET

(Dron Pillad dog

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

Deputy Director of Security

Chior, Cl/operational Approval

and Support Diviaion

56216

TYPE OF HEQUEST

PEDULTS DEGUSOVIO DY

DATE

PROJECT

30 Nor 1950

JBOREED

ME. 9H00

#P QUA &T&0

MY (Deto)

IDEA OF

- FAIR

OP SUBJECT

INXESTIDAIION NOT TO MUCAL INTEREDY OF

DO VERMINI

Tore and

COVER SUBARATRO POR IMYESTISATION

P. MERULTS OF THACES

Will Do for'd shen rood.

#• TRACE

1@.

Brothereid

0 8.

1 10801

bLORe

See Mano 30 lew 1956 and attachmant no. 1o

RETEN THEN

ae

693 USE PREVIOUS COITIONS.

a nota sive to dna

SECRET

$*$

---

## Page 21

26599

SECRET

(+9000 51180818)

PAge

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND

APPROVAL

TO:

CI/Ozera: lomal Approval and Support

Divfelon

FROM:

SUBJECT

CI/OA FINE NO.

TRUE DAME

IN BRONTO ON SSAULONIN

IFE OF AGAT ON SUPLOYLE

USE OF AGINI OR EMPLOYLE (PUlS dOPErlO - BPREItE DUNEY O' ROSANaRNE)

Des Attacksent 11

Reyurated

7229, 29 liovenber 1956

30 Wrother 1936

SO FILE NO.

ASPBOVAL

APPADVAL

CHECK

MYLAHMANT

SPECIAL

Will be forwarded when receivedPRo aND

RONIVALEGT.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL COVERP SECURITY APPROVAL

COVEAT

SECUAITY

APPROVAL

MOFHIETARY

APPROVAL

OTHERI

GREEN

LIST STATUS

I* OUTAINASLE

FUREAMORO WHEN DECLIVED

CHERM GIOT CMPEN HAD BEEN INITIATED

FIELD

TRACES

REVEAL

AREBOAMATDON

Of VALUA

I WILL BE PORNAMORO UNIM RECEIVED

SAPOPMATIUN AS ATTACHED

NOT

INITIATED.

NUT ESPECTIO TO POSSESS RELEVANT INTO.

SUGGESTED

COVENAMENT

INVESTIGATIVE COVLA

ACADEMIE

COMMERC I AL

O TO EA

RI TAACES

1081

0ĐCOFT

BUREATYS

DIVISION

TRACES ('ll dorogatory doesch demary)

RECORD

DEROGATORY®

#OH.

DEROGATORY

NO RECORD

#ECOND

DORO GATORY

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONE ON INVESTIGATION ON SPRCIAL

COVERAGE DESIRLO

SUBJECT

109060: 772 %

CC:

DD/ 3/cv.

SECRET

198

radame ..

---

## Page 22

5-8-1-4-2-3

Duce: 30 Foverber 1956

1. It le tearsled 10:e frorisional Cover Security.

Arproval end a covert security approve be grented to porrit

the use of

18 COLlONS

ex air irer noober abristr

flights se a serBitir racup. wichin

the controlded aresa

b. To seizu

en eir cres member sbor.1l

sensitive nature muraids tbe

1. =8

overtligats

do be mide sitting of certain cantatine ectirities

inauter do aboy sorlo to the fliaht openlona department.

To assist, If called pos from time to tine, In the

preparation or suasitive operations.

e. To be esse UltaR Of d U. S. Gorinent ard/08

Agency Interest

1. the event 1t becomes

operationally ascersary.

8-S-C-7-E

---

