# 104-10326-10076

## Page 1

104-10326-10076

MHENO:

95-1338055

SENS

IND

SECRET

SECRET

PAGE:

CONF: CIC/LA

LA/COGEO,

LA/COGIO,

LA/SAGSC,

95: 1338055

ASR

FILE,

FRP:

STAFF

C/LA, DC/LA

DIRECTOR 401709

PAGE 001

TOT: 120253Z AUG 95

120253Z DIRECTOR 401709

SECR

E

T

STAFE

TO :

FROM:

CIC/CEGLAAF

SLUGS:

WNINTEL

LIMIT CIC/LA INFO LA/COG, LA/COGEO, LA/COGIO LA/SAGSC,

REAM

SUBJECT:

OFFICERS

RIO MEETING OF CUBAN CI OFFICERS AND ALLEGED CIA

§ REF:

A

B

61631

95 1298402

61496 95 1181973

TEXT:

I.

-ACTION REQUESTED:

SEE BELOW.

PLEASE FORWARD ANY

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON SEMINAR OR ATTENDEES.

ADDITIONAL DETAILS PROVIDED REF A WERE MUCH

APPRECIATED. CHECKS OF AGENCY INDICES DID NOT JURN UP A JOHN

NEWMAN AS A CURRENT STAFFER.

HAVING ONLY JOHN NEWMAN'S NAME, AS

PROVIDED BY THE NEWSPAPER ARTICLE, WAS INSUFFICIENT TO RUN As

MEANINGFUL CHECK OF OTHER INDICES AND PERSONNEL RECORDS.

JFABIAN ( (ESCALANTE) ) FONT (201-969899) LAST SURFACED

PUBLICALLY AT-THE JANUARY 91 (ANTIGUA) AND JANUARY 92 (HAVANA)

CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS CONFERENCES.

WHO

ATTENDED THE 91 CONFERENCE AND SPOKE WITH ESCALANTE WAS TOLD BY

HIM THAT HE (ESCALANTE) BELIEVED THAT ' SOME ELEMENTS OF THE CIA

OPERATIONAL, ARM' IN COMBINATION WITH THE MAFIA WERE RESPONSIBLE

*FOR THE<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY. > ESCALANTE MADE IT

CLEAR THAT HE DID. NOT BELIEVE THE CIA ACTED ON ITS OWN.

ESCALANTE'S CURRENT POSITION IS UNCLEAR. HE ATTENDED THE

CONFERENCE AS A PCC-CC MEMBER.

A DEFECTOR NOTED HIM AS A FORMER

CHIEF OF MININT'S POLITICAL SECTION WHO WAS BRIEFLY CHIEF OF THE

DCI FOLLOWING ABRANTES' DISMISSAL AND WHO IS NOW WRITING MININT

UNIT HISTORIES.

ESCALANTE ALSO TOLD THE ASSET THAT HE WAS HEAD

OF THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SECTOR/CHIEF OF COUNTERESPIONAGE FOR

THE US AT THE TIME OF THE MISSILE CRISIS, AND THAT HE WAS

RESPONSIBLE FOR INTERROGATING ALL SUSPECT CIA AGENTS DURING THE

1960'S

SECRET

1

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO: 95-1338055

SENSIND:

PAGE:

SECRET

2

4

ANY INFORMATION BASE CAN OBTAIN ON THE

SEMINAR AGENDA

AND ATTENDEES AND WHAI PROMPTED THE HOLDING OF THE SEMINAR BY

JOSE LISBOA DA ((GAMA MALCHER)! WOULD BE OF

INTEREST IN

EVALUATING THE CUBAN HAND AND INTENT.

WE ARE PARTICULARLY

-INTERESTED

IN LEARNING WHETHER AGEE OR ANY OF HIS ILK PLAN

TOL

ATTEND AND THE MEANING OF SROULEVICH'S STATEMENT REGARDING

CT ONE CERSE ARALINE CONTACTS VICH STRICT ES EXPECTED POE

BE

IN ATTENDANCE.

010-009-013, 201-969899. DECL OADR DRV

•IC/LA; COORD: LA/COG,

: INFO: LA/COGIO; REL:

4 C/LA/SAGSC

---

