# 104-10256-10076

## Page 1

104-10256-10076

ROUTING SLIP

DATE

5155,470

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

CASE NO.:

REMARKS

Tu attaciad was unsolicié

and i ate is

i pend this i die

Ian wate if ish. Ba

(40)

VRi

---

## Page 2

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY:

5 November 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director/IOS

SUBJECT

: Military Armament Corporation,

Powder Springs, Georgia; Subsidiary of

Environmental Industries, Inc.,

Washington, D. C. - alleged CIA

Involvement

1. On 3 November 1970, T. Preston HENDRICK, Washington,

D. C. District Manager, Dun and Bradstreet, Inc., (DOD Contract

61-88 ML),3

an extremely valuable WFO information source, contacted

Special Agent

by telephone and said he had a

matter which he thought, in the interest of national security, we possibly

might be interested in looking into. He briefly explained the problem

which had come to his attention from|Dun & Bradstreet's Atlanta, Georgia

ifice, and it was agreed that Special Agentl

vould meet with him

n his office the following day

03

031

2. On 4 November 1970, Mr. HENDRICK gave Special Agent

the attached xerox copies of an informal memo dated 20 October

1970 from D&B's Atlanta, Georgia Office, Subject: Environmental

Industries, Inc. (Exhibit 1); a D&B Business Information Report dated

9 September 1970 on Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs,

Georgia, representing a subsidiary of Environmental Industries, Washing-

ton, D. C. (Exhibit 2); and a ten page article from the August 1970 issue

of "Atlanta" Magazine (Exhibit 3). HENDRICK commented that this article

(Exhibit 3) has no by-line heading, and no mention of the author's name

and is written in such a manner as to imply an association between CIA

and the principal of Military Armament Corporation Mr. Mitchell L.

WERBELL II.

ZIRS

---

## Page 3

3. Mr. HENDRICK noted that the attached memorandum

from the D&B Atlanta Office (Exhibit 1) is self-explanatory, but

added that the Atlanta Office is receiving a lot of inquiries on both

of the companies. The D&B Report (Exhibit 2) is the first and only

such report yet produced by Dun & Bradstreet's Atlanta Office. The

Dun & Bradstreet Washington, D. C. Office has had no other require-

ments for information on the local company, Environmental Industries,

Inc. However, the D&B Washington Office, in response to the D&B

Atlanta Office request for information, has so far ascertained only

that Environmental Industries located at 955 L'Enfant Plaza S. W.,

-Washington, D. C. ostensibly is a one room type operation with a

telephone (554-9572) and one female employee who would not identify

herself; this person told D&B's investigator that he should not have.come

there-that everything about both firms had to come from Powder Springs,

Georgia.

4. Mr. HENDRICK said his first impression after the article

(Exhibit 3) was that the comments involving CIA "were ridiculous, pre-

posterous, and were written by a nut who is as nutty as Mitchell L.

WERBELL III seems to be"

', however, as a citizen he (HENDRICK) •3

did not want to take any chances and decided to call Special Agenti

HENDRICK also thought it conceivable that fraud mignt

possibly be involved, but indicated that he has not mentioned this matter

to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

5. Mr. HENDRICK said that at some point he will have to

respond to Atlanta's request for information on Environmental Industries,

Inc. either by saying the Washington Office is not going to write a report

or stating an opinion that the information in the "Atlanta" Magazine article

seems completely ridiculous. Mr. HENDRICK indicated to Special Agent

that if at all possible he would appreciate some guidelines - if

nothing more than sending the D&B Atlanta Office a xerox copy of the

National Security Agency Act and CIA Mission as described in the United

States Government Manual or some other public document. HENDRICK

made it clear he was passing all above information to us on a completely

informal unofficial basis and indicated he realized it is possible confirma-

tion or denial of implied CIA interest may not be possible.

EDMUND X. KLIPA

Special Agent in Charge

- 2 -

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Durf & Bradstreet, InC. INTER-ORNICE MAMO

TO

REPORTING MANAGER

FROM

SUBJECT

ENUIRONMENTAL INDUITRIEE

INC

FOR

AlL • CHECK MERE

once big MarlO Call

WIGNATURE

-DATA CeT 20,930

PONDER SPRINGS, TA

WE ARE NOT ABLE TO CONFiRM THIS BRANEN

DUE TU THE ARSENCE OF INFORMATION; WHICH WAS DECLINED BY

THE PRINCIPALSE AN ATLANTA, LUS REPARE NVIRONMENNTAS

IN -

DUSTRIES TO BE HEADQUARTERED IN WASNINETONIC ARE

AT PONDER: SPRINGs, GAR

QUA ONLy SOURCE Lf INFERMATION iN BEEN A

LOCAL PUBLICATION, NEVICH STATES TIAT ENUIRONMENTAL INDUSTRI

INS MAINTAiNS HORRORTER PI WANINGTON PLEASE

A SUBSIDIAY OF ANiTHER NNDIVUIGEO CUNCERN AT THAT LOCA-

TINUE A COPy OF TNE REPORT IN TUS PUBLICATION IS BEINOENCENSE

19L-42 (681007)

• CONTINUED ON RIVERSE

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SIC

19 11

Tell neiles dia.

puna stadsireet, BUSINESS INFORMANOW REPORTE

@DUN. & BRADSTREET, INC.

RATING

04-969-3849

VOR 69 SEFT 9 1970 (FU 10-8)

MILITARY ARMAMENT CORP

MFR GUNS

1970

(Subsidiary of Environmental

Industries, Inc., Washington; D.C.J

RT #3

SUMMARY

P.O. BOX 168

POWDER SPRINGS GA

30073

TEL 404 943-3574

PAYMENTS

EMPLOYS

RECORD

UNDETERMINED

12

INCOMPLETE

MITCHELL L. WERBELL, 111, PRINCIPAL

PAYMENTS

FINANCE

HISTORY

OPERATION

• Trade references declIned.

On Sept 9 1970, Mitchel! L. Werbell, Il1, principal, declined any

and all Information.

An analysis by reporter

An artletion of outside guardoss dulled to ye lack of informa=

Is Impossible due to the

tion.

A check with public records has been initlated, and will be published

upon compietion.

Incorporated Cobb County, Georgle en luly 11970.

Authorized capltal

1,000,000 shares of comon stack at no far value,

Paic in capital £1, 000.

WERBELL, 1l1, born about 1918, married,

Reporiadly was previousiy associated

with Sionies,

inco, Atlanta, Ca. Also appeared as owner of Mitchell L.

Herbell Advertising, Atlanta.

Operates as a subsidlary of Environmentai Industries, inc.

Environmental industrlese Inco, Washington, D.C., deialls not avallable

at this Time.

Subject manufastures guns used In mariare. Sales are made to the u. s.

Governmatt and foreian dovernments.

REporter estimates 20 accounts.

ing including officers. LOCATION: Operations conducted from 60 acre estate

owned by Mitchell L. Warbell, 111.

THIS BEHORT MAY MOTIE RIPRODUCED

OR MANNER WHATEVER.

enrirages at this wepairy.

---

## Page 6

ROBERS AGADING THE SCRIPT

109702 2-2

-20

The Story of CBS and the Plot to Invade Haiti

1 By GU'S COXSTANTINE

5== Stall Wraer

complets in the toad "any

House Commerce Committee

fy to icrestigate broadcast 11-

said in

an interview.

carsing under the Communica-

The Colombia Broadcasting

Asked whether the networks

ystem hus been accused in a

" had

The report, which was pre

Knowldeze

that

law.

LOTS AC..

000g. ial House subcommit

WAS

pared ( for the subcommittee

Sabar! said he sould wel.

bring violated, Salant

staif report of contributing

said:

Ast quie 20, caused some

¡use is 5a0,000 lo i 1966 plot

"Ti sui've involved in filma

agonizing in

the Commerc

surge tie herrings ia, this

Horever, he said, "I'd

Committee: over whether to

Lare greater bope for such

i invade Haiti.

ing at; and training exercis:

Lesording to the report, CBS

Us.

ofously You have knowl

call a public hearing.

nearings getting at the truth if

ries could be held in a forum

in

Jean

obtained exclusire

edite of a cictation of law. But

Information in the report led

rights to filmshe del: higents

our gueral position is that

to

subpoening of CBS films,

tist oiters the opportunity for

cross examination.

of arms and tratony sites of

Where the violation is general-

financlal records and logs in

the

plotters

Macparatory

to M

ly Fiden, or there is reason to

connection with the invasion

Tee invasion finally was bro

Plate de inacion foolf

bellero that law enforcement

attemót. Executive

sessions

ken up by customs agents on

It siso chares that the not

agencies know about it, then

were held at which CBS per-

1967, in a raid at Coco

writes toe: trini; to hide

We pocced without notifying

sonnel testified

Jar. "'Beach," Fla. CBS had

Plum

as interment me mat itress

them,

In their report, stali mem-

ended is incolvement the pre-

Salant said CBS News': ex-

bers of the Special Investiga-

rious November.

tions

subcommittee accused

Seven men were indicted by

penditure

for the

"Ilaidiam

asthoritoy.

Fishend Salaat, president of

project" was betieon $tsd,000

CBS

of irresponsibility and

a grand jury as ringleaders of

and $170,000.

"About $120,000

said

the network may have

the plot.

i of them were

oi

this

went for

external

violated six federal statutes,

tried and conticted in Noven-

westerday that

"COS

tess flated goorning de-

civities and training csercises

as part of an investigative re

aé ue he activities di Cu.

ven-Harian exile groups."

But so denied ihat. the net

work helned finance the inva-

costs--travel, board,

Judging

- 1P

including the Neutrality Act,

ser 1957,

while the charges

and payments to non-staif ber-

RICHARD S. SALANT

the Munitions: Control Law, the

against

the

seventh : were

sonnei," he said.

Communications Act of 1934

dropped by the Justice Depart-

and several firearms laws.

ment,

an appeal

Although CBS has

been

linked to the invasion attempt

in earlier news accounts; de-

tails of the network's involve-.

ment have

never been 'dis"

closed. The invasion itself nev-

er came off.

"This committee has an ex-

cellent picture of what took

place,"

a

member

of the

There.

The ! probers recommended

panding in New Orleans 232

that the netyork be called to

According to the Commerce

public account in open hear-

subcommittee staff report, the

ings

before the Commerce

plot was hatched early in 1966

Committee, which has authori-

Sce CBS, Page A-5

---

## Page 7

Doninican Repuliller

i in as a junging off

int to sunke at Cubi,

Tie

report contends

CBS

irmed about it in March 1966,

Tued in April to film inva-

•JEa

preparations,.

including

13049.5

slipachts and cach-

mad did so iu June and ad

finess.

Il Further con-

i that the network mul up.:

torard the rental ofa

to serve as the lavasin

• 30;

salad deal dof liver operal-

is rogurt.

11181r.1081d

not be cyanillied.

livili

Unided Loser hnernatichol

Rolando Masterrer (loft) and Father Jean

Raptiste Cicurgo:

1:d!

hired

His maderin

Dude collead edit ording ali loa

Finest coul the Caress are to

Cas tings developed by lite

istortion attemnts

reur once writer puss intro

huber. got the feeling Orde

duced in the report as the con

se stanley cochacier

, assistant

tact who approached Mc.

customs agent in charge of en

were being had Salant said.

Millens n March 1966. St.

forcement at Miami, who kept

George 15

said to Shave told

Leading Figures

track of the unfolding invasion

McMullen of the preparation

scheme.

for a Hailian invasiong and

The leading "aclors" in the :

asked if CBS was still interest

brasion" drama, according

Plans Outlined

ed in illegal munitions move

i the staff report, were: As

The subcommittee report

ments fu

Rolando Masferter Rojas, a

says CBS' association with the

Wer Bell, identified in the

Eyear-old Cuban right-winger

conspirators began in March

staff report as a man with a

lown as "The Tiger." He

strolled. a privalc army in;

1966.

background in

arm's sales to

The conspiracy took shape

Latin governments, is intro

iba when Fulgencio Batista

initially as just one more Latin

duced by

St. George to Mc-

was dictator.

intrigue

in Florida to toppler

Mullen in April at Wer Bell's

The Rev. Jean: Baptiste

the rezime of Cuba's Fidel

home in Powder Springs, Ga.

ciganges, a Catholic priest and

Castro.

McMullen, said the report,

former coucation

minister

In this instance, the plan;

was told of Wer Bell's efforts

ukler Hailian President Fran-

called for Masferrer to bein- :

to find a suitable base in the

cais Duvalier.:

stalled as chief of-Cuba while-

Domincian Republic for Mas-

• John Aton Constanzo-Pelau,

Father Georges took over Hai-

-ferrer to launch his invasion.

a Cuban conspirator. who al.

ti, provided a two-stage inva-

legedly assisted CBS in its:

sion was successful...on

filming. He was recently shot

CBS

enters the picture

Price Tag Cited

• Miant:

through McMulien, a producer.

McMullen-was also-told; aC-

• Julio Cesar Hormilla, a Cu-:

eager to film arms-smuggling la

cording to the report, that for

ban who lost an eye while par-

activities. The special subcom-

ticipating in the filming of in

mittee's

chief! • investigator,:

a price, exclusive arms ming

clandestine

arms ship

vision training. 3a*41

James P. Kelly, himself a for-

ments, training exercises and

Mitchell Wer Bell Ill, a mu-

mer CBS employe, is said lo

the actual invasion could be

milions dealer linked to clan-

" have worked

on

project

arranged.

sile opcrations /and up

with McMullen in 1965 to film

McMullen

agreed to pay

hdaval in Latin America. He

illegal export of surplus fight-

close to $80,000

for:. these

as hired by CBS as a con

er aircraft. That project was

rights, the report says, and

sitart for the invasion story

dropped.

CBS hired St. George as asso

haller, CBS produc-

ciate producer and writer of

asion slory.

the invasion story.

Anklets

Si.

Cieorge,

As a

down

do lance wrier

who lipped:!

George deliveral lo wer Bell n

CBS on the invasion plans:

$1,500 given to him by McmaN

and was hired by dune work

associate producer

Mullen, the report says. Nais

waiter of the story. I: 1

In June, McMullen brought a

film" crew to a Miami house

James Wilson. a CBS cam

belonging to Masferrer's

¿iman who informed federal

brother. An arms cache was.!

thorilies of lie

invasion

photographed there and in oth-

croresidmoes in the same vi.

Wer Bell was on location ai

were ammigracion anens, wi

called to check on Masterer':

Wher cabouts:

Masterer was

and owns Marrel

collers?

Cost ac

cordi

VANCES

James

Wilson, contacted CLA agents

in Houston while on a space

shot assignment;

•the - roport

Says,

The CIA informed the Bl

why called on. Wilson andre

Corred him to V.S, Customs

Prompthat point on,

Baccort

chactor,

assistant customs;

asentein

charlen of

ichloroc

develo

meti

trom

the plo

sought tunds

rome CBS

and St George wash biven

moncy hy McMullen to pay

them, the report Says, It men

tions, sums.

totaling

almost

53,000 to Masterrery 750%to

Were Belle on

sa trịp tô thể Do-

mInIcart

other

per tor in

Pavoodook

ritest norder

to" in-

spire the troops

vand: $500-to

Julio Aton: Constanzo-Pelau,

another conspirator, who dou

bled as film assistant for CBS.

A Comic Turn

Now the narrative shifts to

F New Jersey and takes a comic

McMullen is told he can pho

tograph a shipment ot weap.

ons, from she shion Hunting

Lodge on 11, 46 to Florida. He

pays Masterrel 1380 for the

story. but the story fails to

materialize. In the mix-up, the

car carrying the weapons Ins

es contact with the CBS film

crew, according to the report.

Later, a van carryinge wear.

ons from New York to Florida

breaks down in Macon, Go.,

and the driver has only $15 in

cash. CBS provides financial

holp and a 1065 Mercury sti

tion wagon is sent to Macon in

complete the tript

& the report

McMullen then pays, wer

Bell $3,000, toward rentalofal

which

Mink

---

## Page 8

14-00000

CoS suid yesterday it paid

Wer Ecli

$1,500 fut

the boat.

Saladt said.

*I understand it

was to be the invasion boat.

We were going to be on it. The

money was for board and lodg-

ing. Another $1,500 was paid

for a second yacht, which was

used by st. George and luter

caught fire."

Suit Against CBS

During

the filmicg

ot

training

scene

at

Kendal

Park. Pla., traince didio Cesar

livorite was injured when a

detective weupon exploded. He

juner lost an eye.

Mormilla sued for $1 miltion,

Du: Car Haition diplomat re-

that he was purpostly

potted the matier to Duvalier,

foil misinformation by Duval-

to the FBi and to U.S. Cus-

ier to joll the invasion.

tonis

Schacter,

meanwelle,

in-

forms Masferrer, Father

Scinat said CBS was not in-

volved

itio

Georges and McMullen that

nor knew anything

Ecli

this incident until Wer

the invasion rould not be al

lowed.

approached

MicMullen

and said he had the tape.

At this point reBs endsut

"McMullen

said,

•Hell, I*

affilation, suther

won't touch i," according to

says. y

Salant.

But Masferrer and his peo-

ple shift to Coco Plura Beach

A fallog out then apparently

occurred

and begin a new countriown.

beliveen

MIssferrer

On Jan. 2, U.S. Customs offi-

and St. Georgc and the latier

cials take: the

"army" into

goes to Stanley Schactei, the

same Customs official briefed

custody, and seize is arma-

carlier by Wilson, to tell his

ments, including the transpor

version of the invasion story.

vessel, theatrenal&e

St. George, says the report,

a A gränd jury then indicted

now crops out of tne picture:

the seven men, including Mas

He is hospitalized with bad:

Terrer, Fallier Georges, Con-

burns sulfcred in a yacht acci-m

Stanzo Pelau and: Wer Bell on

deat and McMullen bires Wer

charges they violated the Neu.

Ecll as a story consullant at.

trality Act and the Munitions

alleging that McMullen trans-

$500 a week.

Control Laws

ported weapons to Kendall and

Another

shift

nOW

takes

Before the trial the Justice

place. The Dominican Resub-

Department dropped Wer Bell

distributed them to the mer.

lic is "uncooperative" over the

as a defendant,

and the con-

After

his injury,

Hermilla

use of its territory as a base

gressional

investigators re

charged, medical aid was de-

for the Hailian invasion so the

ported that all attempts to get

•an

layed

until CBS

cameramen

piona's decide to Strike direct

explanation from Justice

could photograph the incident

y iron the uniten states.

Tailed.

The other defendante

Hormilla later

sctiled

his

were

lound guilty and were

suit with CBS for $15,000, the

Appears a Scoop

sentenced to prison terms

ranging from 60 days to four

report says.

A. CBS crew is flown

i to

years. The verdict is on appeal

According to the report, Wer

Port-au-trince,

Haiti, and the

in New Urisans.#

Bell, Masferrer and St. George

network hines its own flagshin

In 1967 CBS refused to Icl

for $2,500 to trail the rebel:

showed un at the Miami office

officials of the Justice Depart-

flotilla. NBC and ABC were

ment, Customs and the U.s

of

Haitian

Consul Eugene

sirugging to catch up with thes

Attorney see the tims it took

- Maximilian and offcred to end

story. but the "scoop," it ap- in connection with the invasion

preparations for the invasior

peared, belonged to CBS.

plans, the report says.

if Duvalier put up $200,000.

Nov. 20 is the day before the

According to the report, Bil

When no answer sppeared to

invasion. But that night, CBS

Leonard, CBS vice president,

be forthcoming,

the

staff re-

correspondent® Bert Quint, in

rebuked Wilson for nctifying

port, says the plotters offered

"Haiti, reports" a "battle raging

the governent

through am intermediary to

"in the streets "between rebels ?

Meanwhile, the mouse

sell a tape of their conversa-

and forces loyal to Duvalier.

Commerce

Committce

: COM-

tion with Maximilian back to

There is reason to believe,

tinues to study the need for

the consul for $10,000.

the congressional staff report

public hearings:

---

## Page 9

14-00000

520022

APRIL

1470

rise's)

21686

THE

MAFIA

INCIA

For seven years, our

two invisible governments

have been fighting

for control of the small,

impoverished Caribbean

nation of Haiti. The outcome

is still in doubt

BY ANDREW ST. GEORGE

ILLUSTRATED BY DAVID STONE MARTIN

---

## Page 10

14-00000

The ClA equipped

guerrillas,

amphibious-landing

parties, spies

and terrorists-and

even bombed the

president's palace

mericans who never thought of politics as any-

thing but visible visible and audible, for that

matter spent an unhappy time in the '60's ad-

justing to the discovery that the United States had an

invisible government, too: in point of fact, two of

them. There is, for one, the CIA, all over Washington;

then, second, there is the national syndicate of

OT-

ganize crime, all over everything else. But it has re-

mained for the generation of the "70's to discover

that-perhaps inevitably-once these two shadow

powers collided somewhere, the confrontation esca-

lated into an invisible war.

It may well be the first full-scale secret war Ameri-

esens have ever fought: its origins disguised, its battles

unreported, its casualties anonymous, even its most

battleground is the nearby Caribbean nation of Haiti

and the immediate issue is simple: who will con-

trol her Maryland-sized national territory and 4.5

million desperate people? But the real struggle is for

far bigger stakes: primacy over the entire Caribbean

and its vast potential wealth. And-in the ultimate

upset to American tradition-the bad guys seem to

he winning.

It is not impossible that, as in Vict Nam, our un-

declared war in llaiti might flicker on and off until

the '80's arrive, but one of its most un-American

aspects is bound to disappear by then: it will no longer

be a secret. It will be the much-debated public prop-

erty of historians, policy scholars, social scientists

the stuff of Sunday book supplements and John Wayne

obvious scars so blithely ignored that when a French

reporter recently wrecked her car in one of its gaping

There is bound to appear a best seller by a White

homb craters, she complained of "potholes." The

House insider-an Arthur Schlesinger III, so to speak

---

## Page 11

--who will publich the authoritative, frethand account

of President John F. Kennery's 1963 decision lin ill-

lempe do free laiti from the cancerous dictatorship of

Dr. Francois Duvalier. and explain why the President

and the National Security Council, ignoring the then-

recent Bay of Pigs disaster, decided to entrust the

liberation of Haili do our "intelligence community."

How the intelligence community-a joint operations

group of the CIA, the Nary and the Pentagon's huge

Defense Intelligence Agency--fell down on the job

will probably he reviewed by an award-winning Wash-

ington newsman in a hard-hitting book that will call

for a Congressional investigation-and likely get one

started.

But a definitive book on the whole Haiti mess would

hest come from the cautious, emotionless typewriter of

a seasoned crime writer. An old hand at gangland

sars, maineless corpses, syndicate power struggles and

mumberer bank transactions would go to Haiti

and

Gine the scene familiar. He would poke his loc at li:

boon crater in the presidential drivesay and sever

mistake it for a pothole. He would talk to President

Duvalier himself

and understand why Washington

thought. back in 1968, that Papa Doc was a freak

and a pushover--this frumpy, feeble-sounding. frog-

Facer linle Mimlam fuchrer without a friend in

the world.

Ile would spot more than one CIA "spook" in the

capital city of Port-au-Prince. But he woul see that

the influential Americans who come and go in the

palace, who dance with slim, bronze bar girls in the

new government guesthouses, who are passed through

the menacing militia roadblocks with a nod. belong to

a different secret society: the "syndicale." And our

connoisseur of crime would reflect with a moment's

ave on the sheer genius of Duvalier's successful sur-

---

## Page 12

When dictator Duvalier

couldn't get arms and

ammo, the mob helped.

Now the Mafia men are

collecting their debt

vival strategy: the discovery that if you are under at-

tack from Washington's spooks, you can find an ally

in America's other invisible government-organized

crime make a common front, and win.

All this would have struck the generation of the

OU's as startling news. It was news, as late as 1908,

even to people touched by the war, like Jay W. Hum-

phrey, a plumbing contractor in Melbourne, Florida.

One spring morning two men in neat dark suits drove

up. 10 the Humphrey house in Melbourne and handed

Jay is strange draft notice. They were friendly men

with an easy way of getting down to first names ("I'm

Bernie," "I'm Raymond, just call me Ray"), and they

had all the usual accoutrements: a basic Chevy with a

clipboard on the dash; some. papers to sign; some

money in an envelope; an air ticket to Miami.

Eight weeks later Jay Humphrey, a six-foot-four,

spectacularly muscled Air Force veteran and champion

weight lifter who had flown combat in Korea, found

himself back at the controls of a heavily laden attack

bomber. Coming in on deck over the glittering Carib-

bean, roaring rooftop level past the piers of Port-au-

Prince, Humphrey banked sharply into a low-altitude

bombing run on the triple-domed presidential palace

of Doctor Duvalier.

Dead ahead, the bomber crew saw the presidential

guard's gunnery crew scramble wildly for the four.

harreled Oerlikon ack-ack cannon mounted on the

palace roof, but Humphrey felt only elation. He had

a passion for flying and for adventure. In a way, he

was a volunteer. Years ago, when Double Chck Com-

pany and Gibraltar Steamship and the Mineral Carry:

ing Corporation and two or three other one-room out

fits all of them thinly disguised fronts for the Cen-

tral Intelligence Agency-were combing Florida for

combat pilots, Jay Humphrey had signed up to fly in

an operation then called "Operation Pluto," but now

better known as the Bay of Pigs.

"If that do had lasted another week, I'd made first-

line crew; I was on the list," Jay later told a friend

And although the Cuban invasion beachhead vanished

in 48 hours, the list with Jay Humphrey's name on it

stayed on file in Washington. This time he was called

to flight duty against another tropical tyrant.

But how did Jay, a good ol' boy from grits-and-gravy

country, where he left a petite, pregnant, blonde wife

named Kathy and a baby son-how did he happen 1o

fnd himself up here in the sultry, sinister tropical sky,

aiming explosive eggs at the president of a nation legally

---

## Page 13

al peace with his on? And how die Haiti get to be the a cop in a formidable special-war machine. le vis

ClA': priority target?

part of a small army including sis American combal

For 18 months, True Magazine and this reporter

pilots (Lary DeGrall, Art Sims, Fred Harke Car-

have been asking precisely this question in one of the

ence

"Bud"

Miller, Howard

Daris and llum

longest and most far-flung investigations ever under-

phrey

himself, is well as a marine and transport

taken by a publication, carrying the query from Paris

detachment led by Willian G. Smith and Wes Mad-

1o San Juan to Miami, Washington and New York:

den; a demolition and bombardier group under Larm

Just what is happening in Haiti?

We found more distrust, deception and double-talk

than on any foreign affairs investigation we have at-

tempicel. But gradually we also found some friends.

fidence. or frustration, we began to encounter answers

with the feel of truth. Our first clues came from Gn.

Leon Cantave Wait's former chief of stall; his execu.

live: oflicer. Col. Bene Leong and from three Ameri

cans with tropical adventure in the blood-lanyer-

piled Edwin Marger of Miami; munitions merchant

Mitchell Livingston Wooell Ill of Alone, and Tom

Dunkin, a sky-diving swashbuckling repurter long in-

terested in Haiti, who nowadays keeps out of trouble

hy working for the Columbus, Georgia, Leilger-En-

Take Jay Humphrey, for instance, plummeting in

midair toward his moment of truth with 1,000 pounds

«I high-velocity plastic-compound explosive, packed in

five specially rigged aerial bombs, tn blow out the life

of an incumbent president whom Jay had never seen

in person. We know now that Jay was little more than

mustly veterans of the Special Forces (like S/Sgl

Edmund Kolby) or of the Marines (like M/Sg. Bill

Miller 2.

The autonomous tactical strike force even had son:

strategie support facilities: broadcast and psychologi.

cal warfare units for stirring up the population of

Haiti: is own materied procurement; and its osa

pay master--the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, dis-

bursing monty for the project jointly with the Defense

Intelligence Agency from vouchered but condential

Class "A" funds audited only within the agency.

The aerial assault was preceded by an intense radin

barrage aimed at undermining 'resident Duvalier's

domestic support. Our investigation tracel the tapes

of these broadcasts to a New York radin studio then

identified as WRUL, now called WNYW (Hadio Nev

York Workdwide), which often handles ClA-sponsored

propaganda programs. They (Cominued on page 791

---

## Page 14

14-00000

16-mrined Irom page 371

beared in Haiti trough the la-

cilicios el Radio Americas. of 101 Ma-

ricira Arenoe, Coral Gables. le is a shis-

pered fore in Mitian and Cuban esile

cides that Radio

Americas is a CIA

front, also used as a transmission facility

for daily propaganda broadcases to Cuba.

In Coral Cables. Radio Minericas, Inc..

HB1:DN 1101

eminenly impercabie fi-

simcclos ol Miami's giant Fire National

Pieroki.

scorcarneamer is a

previgions Mirmi antonney. Walter Kog

ethers-moss

Americanizet

Cuban esiles-accolly mamage ibe lont

rading actirities of Kadio

coad Cables and on Swan Ioland mthe.

Cribbern, where it

well wirhin shortware and mediamere

roge of bosh Cala and flaili. The CIA

Al che per era pacini

col warlare specialise, ilentified as kob

c82 J. 0V7k1s0n,

Jay Humpluey missed killing President

Devalier hecause three of his five bombs

Gile to esplode and che dio that diol

nodeed slighely olf sarger. One left the

spectacular crater

trille lazare under l'apa Doc's

biderng. Humphrey now suspecis sale-

Bage: or possible betrayal: the commando

Ance laroler boy thiree U.S. pilots al near-

Calp-Manien simulencously

Humphieg's strack on the palace found

insell esaler fine trom one of Duvalica's

consegnarel vessels suspicionsly seanding

olishore just where the invaders struck.

All sol these incredible special warfare

activities were aimed at the most incredi-

ble dictor ever do emerge on the inter-

Acrican scene. Dr. Francois Duvalier,

lapa Doc, D'resident for Life, P'rotector

of the l'cople, Maximun Chiel of the

Regnintion. Apostle of National Unity,

Electrifer of

Comerce and Industry.

Benefactor of

the Poor bas bech, for more than 12 years,

the absolute ruler of Haiti. He has shown

himself i more

durable despot than

Hitler: more murderously cunning than

Scalin: more (cared than Mussolini; and

i good bie richer than all cuce departed

dictatos pur togethier.

Ie is estimated that fully ball of llaiti's

528 million national budger goes directly

into Duvalier's pocket. His secret bank

holdings in the U.S. and Europe were

mail lo be in excess of 522 million in

1065, at i time when Faiti's national

bank reserves were down to $700.000.

Pare of this walde is explained simply

by Papa Doc's reluctance lu spend. Not

long ago, an American businessman try

mg to peach Arthur Bonhomme. Haiti's

ambassidor in Washington, found that

the cibassg phone hael been discon-

nected for nompayinent. But most of it

secins from l'apa Doc's unique vision of

statesmauship. Considering himself a liv-

ing incarnation of the Haitian fag and

"national spirit." he views all public

rerenues as his personal assets.

Yce schile Papi Doc has grown fat in

countries.

AMORE

-...

*Number lin Americe

From the Azores to Zanzibar, and in every

Amcrican city in berween, pipe smokers

who demand the finest, light up with

Amphora. Extra mild, slow-burn-

ing cool taste is the reason for

Amphora's world-wide fame.

Try a pouch of Amphora and

discover how pleasing a pipe

tobacco can be. Amphora

... the great tobaceo the

Dutch ship here

with pride.

АДІРНОПА

Regular

AMPHORA

Maldi Aromatic

AMPHORA

Full Arpmair.

power, his countey las starvel as no ter

publie of the Americas ever sterred in

modern history. In the arid, rocky, road.

less backcountry, babies with a birth de

fect are drowned by their desperale

ents like unened cats; and befar.

chikren are offere for sale like cante.

Corrosive famine his eaten

awiy

the

basic bonds of humanity; in 1062 Wash-

ington bogan receiving reports-alchough

it has long been reluciant to discuss them

in public-that for the first time since

pre-Columbian days cannibalism has in.

Iltrated the western hemisphere in Haiti.

In 1062-after the biuer lag of Pigs

was over and done with-Adolf A. Berle,

one of the keonedy oministration's ad-

visers on Caribbean alfairs, published a

starling article in The keperter, known

to revenl the President's thinking. le bc-

gan with these words:

"The current Caribbean crisis in faiti

may prove bigger and more dangerous

than Cuba. Bigger, because it builds on

the arcady perilous Cuban situation.

More dangerous, because il presents the

possibility of il race war."

Only 50 miles from Cuba idross the

crucial Windward Passage

(and 600

miles from the U.S.), Haiti this bocame

a high-priority problem. Throughout

1962, Washington-frst the State Depart-

mene, then State and the Defense De-

partment, then State and Delense and

the CIA, finally even she White Monse

forcign-policy shop-pulled and hauled

at all the customary strings used to make

Caribbean caciques change their ways.

But, much like Castro, Duvalier refused

to iumo.

Ile seme die 115 contassiaslan.

Kralens

Newlegin, packing, ehrer onat slos larg.

ict inilitary mission, expeller ans U.s

aid olficial beare raising his soies in io.

moustralion. and laterales hir

neglectlad of the spiriel side al thing..

me the long resident lpiserpal bistrop el

Hame, a gentle midwesterner maned ..

fred Vocgeli, carted to the airpont with in

pestol at his lacad and europee alesarol ilie

irst plane out.

Bue Fidel Castra wis one thing: Caso.

as President Kenne came 1o

realive

had monistakable political genius and

morerin allies io die pose Pascero bolor

Duvalier, on the ether handl wish his

ancontrollable belarior,

first

spick

Washington as demener. Ne die sugges

tion of his balded adrisers, President kem

merly decided do gise Papa Dee: il sunneg

titions saniti checkup.

Late in 1962 a distinguished U.S. ps

chiatrist experienced in dealing with the

cerenriciries of executives was summenerl

kes Wishington and colisted in a clad.

andalegger stratagem no diagnose l'iri

Doc. To provide ile psychiatrise with in

sale cover and access to the umpredict.

able Haitian dictator, he was estensibly

appoited to i senior position with th

S. embasy in Maidi. The embasis em

White House onders. arranged a privale

dinner with Doctor Duslier and sins lo

il that the visiting doctor sas sented siri-

regically opposite the unsuspecting pres.

ident-where le could engage losh in

observation and conversation with l'ap

Doc.

Marget elega lancianne piersea.

---

## Page 15

my, in is doeign Service aumals, the

psychiatris News back to Washingion. He

remari los diplomatic passport do i

nigh Wide House adviser with the re-

"Dusalier is a psychopath

¡erode unstakable symptoms of para-

noid megalomania. He is a very sick man.

lie treets to loc relieved from the pres.

sures of the presidency, and compeient

treatment and i long rest."

Tre see: an is that Papa Doc was re-

lieved from the burdens of the presidency

now became, on President kennedy's or

slers. the responsibility of the U.S. imel-

ligence and security establishmem. 'The

however, was to be deliv

steel by macinion through the Stare De

May 28. 1963. U.S. Ambassador

Thunson. (who had succeeded

Ambassador Merced, Hanked by coery

sno 1s. mulary officer nor yet kicked

mut of lianti, drove up do the palace with

the Stars and Stripes dying and stode

Persident Duvalier's

What happened next has been a closely

guarded secret, umil Duvalier himself ic.

counted it to a buropean visitor recently:

"Ambassador Thursion appeared one

erening to tell me plainly that I must go.

Ile come and said that the country was in

revole and my enemies about in seize

posed. but that the Once States would

nep se me personally provided, of

course, that I gave no trouble and went

rictly. Well. I was scater at

this very

ambassadlod esactly where

saltity

American feet was in our constal waters,

belt

which

thc

ambassador hnished, 1

looked it that clock there and them i

srid: 'It is you who must go. I give you 21

hours to leave our country.

And now,

yet out of my presence Thurston left

Port-au-Prince, and, you know, nothing .

FANT.

POLICE

POLICE,

revolution, no deal acmp to overthrow

mc, none of the things Washingson es.

pected in order do legin landing

Marines ever came to pass."

But Papa Doc was far too modest. We

knos nose that if the American ambass

dor's thicals failed to materialise, it was

not for want of Washington's trying-and

trying, trying again-to wipe the Duvalier

regime off the map. But what no one has

been able to find out unil now is just

how lapa Doc has managed in resist seven

ycars ol border masons, amphibious

tempts and Special Forces-tines guer.

Last year. for the fist time, the CIA

and the U.5. Justice: Department came

into "hard" information indicating that

in carly 1968, just as his troubles with

Washington were beginning to boil. Papa

Doc was visied by a pompotenty en.

roy of U.S. organized crime: Joseph "Joc

Banamas" Bonanno. then boss of Nes

Joe Bananas had not come do Port-in-

Prince looking to fight anyone: he came

looking lor the casino

concession, and

after some private talks with Papa

he got it. As peacelully is it he were

franchising a Mr. Softee ice-cream stand.

Joe Bananas installed Vito de Filippo,

one of las veteran caporegmas, to handle

le Condu dance gambling stu,

returned to New York-head-on into a

shooting war.

It was a murderous intra-Mail: power

struggle, now known as the Banana War.

After several months-and i loll of 11

corpses-Joe Bananas had to retreat. lie

decided to move to laiti. Now he came

to sec Papa Doc in the bone-white palace,

not as a visiting businessman, but as an

ally in search of a confederate.

TRUE

UNVERSIT

H'on is fell joins.

free Bananas in l'en

gambling comessions, ins

whereabouts

remained a well-kept secree. Balied aper

ulation everywhere leaned comar the

conclusion that old Bananas had gone 1o

sca in concrete overshoes. And when loe

Bananas Goally reappened in the 1.5.

sound and sumanned, the Maba was. lor

once, gemuncly awed. A tropical. tour

isy line country like that, where Cill

and FBl and Treasury and other federal

igents were excluded as archenemies. harl

obvious potential of its own.

Papad Doc, for his part, had insco dis.

covered the special advamages ol a mi-

qual assistance pace with the syndicate.

He discovered them when hard pressed!

by clandestine enemy landings on his

long coastline he went to Washington

en buy some badly needed patrol crate.

The specifications on the procuremen

list Manti submitted 1o the U.S.

Deparmen in Are 1963 looked Marnies

1 Pen N8 boars. 05 1o 125 feet in

length with metal hulls and diesel cn-

gines. armed with multiple cannon and

machinc-gun mounts

2 Thrce small LCS's (Landing Cil,

3 Five IGVP's (Landing Galt Voli-

cles-Personnel)

4. One small moral hulled mughai

5 One small buoy tender vessel

Theso were inoffensive conse-gend-

wist nation. But in the special case of

Papa Doc, the State Department took a

single look as the shopping list and lority

answered.

"No.

Nevertheless ly

• 190605

Papa Doc's Totle sear squadron inspunerd

about half the vessels Washington neir

intended it to have. (The requiremen

for LOVIe's was scratched.) Where did

they come from? U.S. intelligence points

10 is shadossy man, Mas Imator-and

the syndicate.

Intractor, a short lotund, clanming

European known as a Hundertpassli

i.e., a man whose origins are lost among

the hundred diflerent passports he lse-

when the Lansky mob controlled gam

in pre-Castro Havana:

mover. In mob hierarchy, i money moscr

Tanks very near the top, a trusted execu-

implies-safekceping.

paying out moncy without ever revealing

the real owner or causing him troules:

lu Havana, aber Castro's tokenser.

Max Intrattor became i money mover

with a front-line command, so lo speak.

It was his job to prevent the Mism

Chief of the Revolution from getting his

hands on the roomfuls of moncy belong.

ing 1o the Maximum Chief of the Syn-

dicate, Meyer Lansky.

This involved exclanging

all of it

into U.S. currency-moderate-denomina-

tion, unlised dollar bills-a polo Tarrar

tor accomplished with marvelous speed.

paymy two, three, four pesos to the dol.

---

## Page 16

Low-cuan

many benents of owning your orin

Homelite chain saw. You can prune and

Save money

on firewood

with your

own

chain saw

limb, clear storm damage, fell trees up

to 3 10el thick, even make rustic shelters

and garden furniture.

A light pull on the starter cord is all il

takes to get started. The Homelite E-z is

so lighiweight, well balanced and easy

to use that you'll find you're a natural

woodsman after only a lew minutes

praclice.

Drop in at your Homelite dealer; he's in

the Yellow Pages. Test cut with a new

E-z or other models in this world famous

line - You'll take home a Homelite.

take home ahomelite

HOMELITE

FREE

BOOK

Send for this free book, full of

information on how to choose the

right chain saw for you.

Homelite, 10404 Riverdale Ave., Port Chester, N.Y.- Afextron DIVISION

Castro canceled the currency in lavor

of in new issue, and anyone caught hold-

• one di them, equipped with U.S. 50cal

ing more than a hundred Cuban pesus

ber muchine guns and a 20mn. aule.

lost it. Max Imrator was obsiously ready

matic cannon, helped Irisemie a CA

for bigger things.

sponsored commando lancing a Ca

In 1961 Mas appeared in Kome will

Haitien.

i naval shopping lis. le shower no wear

Machine guns, cannon, rilles. i8m--

sos decr for having been crumples anc

hese wee cqually burning problem

They-could-not-very-well be lausched

In face, it looked like a different shop. Italy.

because Hait's exising sockpile

ping list. What Mas was looking for was

were all U.S.-made. Duvalier turned to

the sort of small, surplus, inoffensive lit-

the syndicate.

de offshore boat the European shipyards

"Il was Jike Castro turning to the

will produce at surprisingly low cost (rom

Russians" says Edwin Marger, a Miami

convered U.S. subchasers, old PT boat

hulls or steel-bulled Mosquito boats.

lawyer-pilot who is one of the 10 Re-

perts on munitions law in the U.S.

Papa Doc learned there is no necd to

member, Duvalier was under a war ent

truckle to Washington for naval craft:

bargo, too-except ils one was secret.

the U.S. Nary has sold hundreds as sur-

The fact is Haiti could not clear a 15B

plies in recent years, and all you need to

gun through Washington beiween 1905

und the right shups with the night gur

and 1965;

U.S. Customs would contiscate

nonals is the rigit connections And li

the shotgun shells in your suitcase if they

Italy, the mob had connections-far, far

learned

better connections than the sulled-shirt

State Department, for instance.

"Although we knew that Haiti needed

const-guard craid, the buyers were

30

crafty that it look us a year to realize

lose Italian patrol boats had gone to

Duvalicr." a U.S. agent said recently in

Washington. "They were first routed to

Belgium, then to Montreal, then to a lot

dummy

Bahamian consignees-no

Haitian government had ever used that

sure of quadruple shuffle before.""

Washington does know, however, lat

Dusalier's dreadnoughts were in service

around who could help them,

Lansky's crowd. And Lansky-when you

get south of Jacksonville, well, there is

Nixon and Agnew, and in the British

and French islands there's the Queen

and de Gaulle, but when you say

you mean only one man, all over the

blue water-Lansky. So when Lansky's

crowd decided to help Haiti, the Wash-

ington crowd was in trouble."

In some cance, Marper acknowieupid.

the mob heiped Papa Doc locate hard-le

find munitions in the gunrunning mar-

ket; in others actual purchases were fi-

APRIL 1970

mancel; and in still others, the syndicate's

sole sas to snuggle guns past the U.s

cinbargo amd deliver them in Port-au-

Prince. _

"Do

* Marger

asket, ilar sobile die

Wilt

ships, guns and planes to overhes Du

salier, the aguelicate: was giving lois

"And planes, too." Marger grinned: he

had served as defense counsel for mor

than one gunrunner caught skating sull

to Haiti. and warmed to the possibilities

of the question.

"If you want more ts.

pertise, ask Wally Shandley."

Supervising Customs Agcot Wallice.1:

Shandley is one of the U.S. government

inosa

prestigious

Caribbean

expores.

Posted in Miami during the '60's, he his

been in charge of more gunrunning in

restigations than any other single federal

agent. He never talks to reporters, Hi

finally ines at dinner-Marger, Shandle:

and Charley Mevs a towering, stolid

Haitian businessman who had once been

a clandestine gun shopper himself for

Papa Doc Duralier-and while Agem

Shandley will not declare himself for

• the record on anything traccable lo

Washington's invisible government. he

has no similar communications block ou

syndicate activities: "There is no doube."

he said slowly, a tall, lanky man staring

into his drink. "chal organized crime is

responsible for supplying prohibited not

itary equipment to the Maitian grier.

ment.*

61

---

## Page 17

Asked about the planes mentioned by

Marger, Shandley nodded:

"Military aircraft have been repeatedly

smuggled to Flaiti from the U.S.,"

T-28 all-purpose fighter

bomber training plane.

Washington spe

rifically put them on embargo,

valier got some anyway, and it was a

The masterious case of the contraband

T.28's threw a sharp instant's light on

the hidden workings of secret wars. Two

of the snuggled warplanes purchased

from private dealers

were trace to

Randall Lee Lihridge, i Palin Beach

pilot known as a busy friend of Haiti;

beyond Ethridoc, the trail led to Vito de

Filippo, the Cosa Nostra viceroy in Port-

"The 7:28 case demonstrates the fal.

lacy of trying to wage undeclared war

in it democracy," says i distinguished

Wishington observer familiar with Ca-

"Those aircralt were

smuggled to Haiti "baredeck'-that is,

Duvalier neciled an expert air-craft ar-

morer to install gun mounts and can-

and antomated bomb bays

rocket seruts. It's a tricky job. 'The mob

found l'apa Doc an armorer in Miami

and hireel him at $200 per diem, and sent

hima secretly to Port-au-Prince via Luca-

yan Beach and Kingston. The trouble

wits that this happened

Trec-lance armorer between Atlanta and

licy Largo, so naturally he was also the

(IA's occasional contract armorer-he'd

done quite i few quick jobs for the

spooks, liventually Customs heard about

ise: "T'-28 caper. When the armorer came

Back to Miami-job all done, moncy in

the bank in Nassau-he was arrested and

interrogated. Customs was rubbing its

and working up indictments

against a whole line of mobstcre from

could not be produced in court withou

the danger of revealing the same sort ol

shady secrets about the CIA. Finally the

government just dropped the casc.

Wherever the military cquipment came

from, Papa Doc neered it desperately, for

throughout the '60's Washington's invis-

ible government pressed its attack on

the detested dictator.

In 1963 Gen. Leon Cantave,

white-haired, widely

respected former

chief of stall of Haitis army and a self.

cxile from Duvalicr's dictatorship, was

secretly olleres funds and facilities by a

White House adriser for a commando in-

vasion of Haiti across the Dominican

frontier. The funds subsequently came

from the joint CIA-DIA opcrations

group. When money proved insullicient

General • Cantave's little anti-Duvalici

army was provided with weapons, am-

munition and other war supplics via di-

rect night drops into the Dominican

mountains from an unmarked U.S. Navy

planc, muci as U.S. units on the firin

line would be resupplied

however, some necessi-

ties-training and discipline, for instance

that could not be supplice by direce

airdrop. When Cantave's campaign Miler

for want of such essentials, the CIA-DIA

Bask force began to train anti-Duvalier

activists directly, first in a seeice camp

scar Fort Holabird, Maryland.

the JFK Special Warfare Center in Fort

Bragg, North Carolina.

In 196% and 1965 two U.S.-traincd

• Haitian commando groups,

like the basic Special Forces "A"

in 19-man units, went ashore in somhern

The first one was i spearhend

force, intended to set up a resupply drop

zone and to provide learership for local

insurgents. Six months later, the second

team-a smaller unit of eight men, lour

of them Americans went briefly ashore

on a simpler mission: to check the are.

around Termie and find out firsthan

1. 81.

creel ime cheweel dupe doe line lose door iss

Darliers butcher-bird anisa, the lon

ton Macoutes.

The invisible government in Wishing

Papa Doc and

loking charge of lam

called for American lendership. In Att.

when Father leon-lapse ricoigs

Catholic pricst

heel becan

Haili's

Minister of Education, begin to organise

a major commando expelition in lida.

i U.5. Special Forces Capritin named Roh

ert h. Brown sucdenly appeared mong

the recrits.

A Miami journalise with intimate Cil.

conections arranged i secret morting in

his Coral Gables home between the Dei.

tian cxile leader and the U.S. ollicer. .

this mecting Captain Brown. a wiry.

commanding gure in his Viet Nam com

bat fatigues, squatted on the living.soom

ing with a shece of paper and showed

Father Gorges how a commando opera

tion against Duvalier's stronghold should

- The captain was

ready to Icad the

litele 300-man army.

Unexpectedly

handing command to

unfamiliar American: a few ccks later,

his entire "invasion force" and all their

arschal were seized by U.S. Customs. M-

though Father Georges had been repcit-

violations ot the U.S. Neutrality Aal, but

somchow never indicted, this time lie

was hauled into federal court and giscu

a prison sentence.

In 1968 another major anti-Duvalier

sperleaded by

Humphrey, was launched from Florida

by a group of Haitian exiles US. pilois.

instructors, boatmen and demolition ex-

perts handled all key opcrational assign-

mcnts. Most of the financing came from

the secret funds of Washington's invis

ible government.

But by far the heaviest toll sas paid

by the men-and their wives and children

who became involved in Washington's

anti-Duvalier campaign.

One of the young Haitian militants

who participated was Bernard Sausatics.

29, a graduate of the Bordentown Mili-

tary Institute, who risked his life repeat-

cdly to liberate his country. A recent con-

fidential report of the Organization of

American States on the destruction of

human rights in Haiti lists the name of

Sansurica i dozen times, including three

under seven and a pregnint

Every one of these nich, women and

children was put to death by the 'Tonton

Macoutes in retaliation for Bernard San-

sarica's enlistment in the Haitian secret

The women were rapedl, time im

again, anil they shricked for deaths: il

canne, in some cases, with the slavering

assault of a sadistic torturer known is

"Ti Fer" (Iron Uncle), who tore his vic

tims apart with a spiky iron collar al

tached to his genitals

There are also reports of small sirl

sexually abused and impaled with bottk.

---

## Page 18

wooed loans shadered againse the wall

Lordose clicir mothers eyes.

This am-Dustlier campign, the

Eld. incredibly, often was forced to stand

ly helplessly while its trainees

rickline ferre is a slim, sophisticated

wine ims been familiar with the Waitian

freedom light for joars: she has gisen it

1me and ellort, and Gnally she gave her

"What happened was the ClA picked

app my bance. Mas Arinand, along with

one Bothers took Them all to Marvland

'' lee coverest trucks for trisining,"' Miss

Me Hold Taus resent.

mes called oremselves the frune Maiti

Say They gone sighie seeks special

lodes daining. ending in some sort of

jungle tiniog exercise. And they got

M916' grat-hicarms, communications and

amphibious equipment, wharever they

acedeil. They were supposed to begin

oganizing the opposition, serve as il

"Whese the linse team landed in the

southa of Haiti, Max was second-in- con•

ral into Ducalier's militia all around

Kennic, and there were fire fights almost

estly day and they began taking casual-

Then their

breaker or lost,

we don't know; we just

couldn't communicate with thent.

"le gradnally became obvions that un-

less something was done these boys were

cookedl. Anel we crier-listen, the CIA

sully tried-to get some help to the boys

o sorchow save what was left of them.

And we couldn't do a thing. Washing

son just shut down on us: it was like

runting into a stone wall-nothing. All

the lays were-killed. My. fancé, too. 1

have since found out. how he died, but-

I don't think I can talk about it. Any-

CT. guys-the people who

tainer and erripped the boys-were ter-

and said someone was

pollong strings behind their backs to de-

stroy the expedition. The only thing they

could do sas chip in, juse like in ollice

collection, and pay for a Requiem Nass,

i incmorial service for the dend. It was

right here in New York, on 14th Street.

1 went too. All the CIA guys and families

aud girls of the dead boys were there; the

aisle wis a river of lears."

In all this sie scenc-Washington's in-

Misble government praying for the heroic

mons it load traineal out coule mot sup

parl-the sagalicant sentence

the "pulling of strings" belind the CIA's

Even in Washington, where the local

industries are lobbying. fixing,

influence

perling and public relations, this muse

have been a dillicult feat. Whoever went

lo bat for Duvalier confronted the vast

Washington foreign-allairs burcaucracy-

the State Department, the intelligence

establishmche, the angry Organization of

American States, some of whose mem-

ber states were privately urging the U.S..

to forget about diplomatic niceties and

send in the Marines.

Our investigation encountered virtual

consensus that only one statesman of or.

"al:

it tate di

1070%

Lifetinis

Service

_ Guarantes

170457660501::

Send 25f soday for your copy of the NEW colorfully illustrated, 32-page Fisherman's Hanubock.

gankeel crime could have surned the ness organizations under his influence:

trick: Meyer Lansky, mighty Meyer, cabo

In Niami, Lanskg money helpert my

di capi de, boss of bosses, tie world's most

influential money mover and corrupter.

a far-flung outbe known as Interbariotal

We know that when Papa Doc's lime

Airport Intel Systers, whose astociar.

of troubles began, mysterious go-betweens

came to include some milnential Wisi

procured him a very influential Washing

ingron figures, most prominently No:

i told o the take whipray

well N. Rabb, who served as secretary lo

the Cabinet under President Risenhose!

and had been right hand man do Vice-

1060 Toternational Airget Hotel

Syses developed am amissakolle in.

Present Lyndon Jolnson. Bobby Haker

terest in Maiti. Lansky money lonel is,

had is rare galasy of gilis: he was an in-

wily into another promotion-mindeed our

Muental Gyure among clected ollicials, a

Close friend of 1ob). and a natural-born

fit with strong Washingion conction:

fixer with a quick mind.

-Bobby Gene Baker's Sero-ll Comprosa

Baker was taken so the mountaintop

tion. Serv-U was bascally just a venomy

machine company, but in the midlid's i

and shown the promise of Hairi by a pair

found itself with some new associates

ol Meyer Lithskg's Washington lobbyists:

Ben Sigelbaum-i senior mob money

Eel Levinson, Ding Cellini and Tonner

mover-and Tollerinon, whe came to

Nevada Is. Goi. Clitt Jones-ll of when:

hael, is 7l lov

Linsky and Halt by wig of lies Vegas

comradence, serrel lorisi

amel Miami. Quicker Mam good sa sily

108s of elms in Danti sending some sher:

"orket," Baker found banell plugged

or other connecteel win gambling Ailn

into i setup which panel hume a penny

rally chough, they were all enthusian

tribule on crory pound of meat slangla

Duvalier boosters. Clift Jones--Whee ilong

tered and exported from Mailinnimal

with Cellini, has been long considered In

U.S. authorities as a front for Lansts.

mcat, not human llesh. Magically, meat

exports began to soar.

proved an indefatigable lobbyist for flairi

and its many potential pleasures

Baker's butcher bonus was,

howerer, merely a beachhcad for Duva-

lier's and Lansky's combinerl forces.

In 1061 Bobby Baker and len bigel

Lansky's vision of the Caribbean as a

bawn became insolvel in helping la

lush blue-water empire of gambling, four-

charter a new bank in Washington.

1106

banking venture atumcied intential

isin, covert banking and real-estate ma-

people-oue of them a poseful (im

nipulation came to include Haiti in

gressional activist in Caribbean altrir

central position by the mid 60's. This

statesmanlike concept from the dean of

Becoming involved with banking ai

gave Baker an idea of another way d

U.S. organized crime in turn permeated

heip Papa Doc-by giving line monty

every nook and cranny of the many busi-

The giant international banks beign 1o

---

## Page 19

14-00000

le invalier-it a time

which the

•invisibde governone" was sending men

to their destins trying to overthrow him.

Another des area in which Washing.

low's "invisible government"

proved you.

less was the assiguing of U.S. ambassa

dors. Here: the Senate

and the White

House "kichen cabines" had the deci

What developed gradually was in mys.

DOD1011E

"the-cagle-has-two-heads"

policy

wish macise results:

In conly lil, just as the ClA began 10

real oll ami Duvalier recruits to thin at

redes 11.5. &0mps, the White House sent

oi do ness 01.5. ambassador to Haiti. The

1lrk.

mangelle, is man whr secree

pepared do coesist with lapa Doc it any

Noreover, alhough Duvalier coul not

at le perms our of Washington though

Maid. by 100 the Johnson Administra-

1e lurican Developmem

Paper Doc doo pick up a 52.6 million loam;

see Initions died so hastily, for under the

exceptonally generous terms see by the

bank. it was an outright gil in all but

The Alliance

for

Progress also

smiled on Duvalier and granted him a

$ million funding guarantee for i new

petroleum refinery.

x'll contradictory. Pom Washington and

New York, the CIA inaugurated daily

radio broadcases beamed to Maii from

Stinion W'KUL and Radio Americas, then

ollicially known as the Vanguard Service.

Corporation, urging the people to over-

"bloody slespot

other sources in Washingeon and New

close to the White House

kitchen cabinet, began to urge a resi-

sal of U.S. tourism in Haiti. Tragicomi

cally the U.S. Ning-deeply involved le

hand the scenes in atrempes to get rid of

Duvalier-was told to prime the pump

for tourism by reactivating Port-an Prince

as in lease pore for sailors.

As luis syndicate suppor solidified.

Japa Done grers bolder. To prove that he

could outspook the ClA anywhere. erog

on ies own home grounds. his secret

•gems in Nes York inflorarcel the starlios

o1 WROL one night and switched the

recorded lapes being processed for ship

ment to Swan Island. What went on the

air a fen days later, insead of the pro-

gramnes hall-hour anti-Duvalier broad.

song-of praise. for. Papa

The spooks struck back by instigating

investigation of the Haitin

consul general in Miami, Eugene Maxi-

milien, who was suspected of abusing his

duty-free diplomatic privileges in the im-

TMLT

Trucker

"Who are you? Why didn't Neil and Buzz come back?"

-AO18E 9001011

rasable goods

As the invisible sar cominued, no rine

was sale. Alter the Jay Humpley bomb.

ing rail on Duvalier's palace, the soun

U.S. foreign service ollicer suspecial ol

being the ClA station chief in Maii.

Thomas H. Carter-piicially accredited

as the third secretary of the U.S. embasss

mas beaten bloody by a Tomon Mi.

coure chug. Duvalier sent him back in

Washington

on a stretcher, along with

an "apology" for the "incidens."

Oddly enough, while hundreds of purs.

ole died in thic

invisible war. anel mil.

lions of dollars went down the drin. i

remainer a secree. The Haitians, Cohos

Americans enlisted lay the cill

could not reveal their rage in Wishing.

ron's "double shulle" withou compre

mising the melligence establishmen

their single source ol support.

This hekd true eren when the cisul.

ries were Americans. le is largely forgor-

seas now that the list diplomaic crisis

beeeen Washington and the derborn

..Dusalier regime occurres over the 1957

moder of in American citizen. Shibles

Tilamas. by the Port-an-Prince*

Duraber sent the widow $100,000 in cash.

and the matter was considered serlert.

But there were no indemmities last yeir

when a machine gunner nameel Gorall

inmobing raid on laps Doc's palace, leat

by veteran tropical combat llier Hosarl

Davis. who bas flown for the CIA both in

Cule and Vice Nam.

wouleb have been unhinkable. Do seel

here. for one

coole of omertà, the traelition of silence. i

tradition deeper in the underworld thin

in the intolligence establishmen. And

would harr lean

worthless unless de romance secret..

"Ever since orgamized crime became in

invisible empire of sorts" a Justice 1):.

partment ollicial told True "Peoble lilie

Lansky have looked for the perfect sciny

a completely controlled province. frec

of intruders of every sort, free of 11.4.

agents, tax moops undercover invesiigs-

tors, local politicians hustling pagolls-

frce of all the intrusions that make gam

bling summentally a slicey proposi.

The U.S. ollicial explaineal that in sucts

i controlled setup. gubling could. loo

once. be fixed "as it should be" in li

prolessional gambler's dicam-seichil-

ally, invisibly, permancutly and pre

isely. so as not to scare away the sucker

"Supposc." he said, "that this perfect

gambling baven comes with its own trees.

my system; that is a wholly autonomous

trading enclave, a fee pore, where money

can be collected, exchanged, trinsfered

or converted into gold.

for instance-

once again, without snooping or hassling.

New suppose that the big boss slee his

had the strcogth and patience to build

up this perfect property, investing mil.

lions over a long period when the propo.

sition looked like just another rathole-its

Lansky has done in Haiti-suppose this

boss of bosses also has an exclusive

option on thousands of acres of beach.

(Continued on pagr 8i1

---

## Page 20

- Tron!

sanel that is bosed to

become

-ialuable as the resul of his scheme? What

sort of winnings woule that make? Well,

on Grand Bahama,

Wallace Groves, a

perly ex-convict

whose one stroke of

genius may well have been finding a con-

nection to Meyer Linsky, not long ago

bongin 211 square miles of land at the

¡verge price of 52.80 per acre. Not quite

three: dollars, ch? Now the same land sells

118

American suckers

at prices

up

to

$50.000 per acre.

This sort of option

in known simply as a license to print

Teur has seen hitherto unpublished

evidence that this lush Lanskyland in

the beart of Maiti is no utopia

but i

working blueprint. Some of the cridence

was turned up by the U.S. Justice De-

parment's organized crime strike

force

created by Attorney

General

Ramsey

Clark during his recent tenure..

On January 8. 1960, at Miami Inter-

national Airport, a suike force

Justice Department attorncy's

Wallace Johnson, seized

chartered Super-Constellation

planeload of huge

Port-au-Prince. Inside the crates were the

clectronically rigged, practi-

cally desection-proof gambling gear, re-

moscly controlled to cheat a tourist out

of il single C-note or his life. savings. It

10ok FBI technicians a month to assem-

"It was worth the effort," an experi-

enced investigator told TRuE in Miami,

dice and roulette

They are not just another gimmick; they

open up i whole new era in which the

housc'-the professional gamblers-will

never hase to gamble again.

I'eur: obtained offcial FBI color pho-

rograplis of the crooked casino equip-

ment, revealing that under the green

felt all the tables contained invisible elec-

tromagnets. These magnets remain incrt

-that is to say, impossible to detect-

until a "juice man" activates them with

i tiny remote-control. device known as a

"grip." Then all it takes is a quick elec-

Ironic signal (transmitted to the tables

via a hidden amplifier) for the juice man

les control the roll of any dice or wheel

in the casino. The pitmen and croupicis

idl other identifable casino employees

an keep their hands in sight with

leet innocence; they don't have to per.

A second Maiti-bound planeload of

trick casino furniture was seized at the

sane

airport

somewhat

later.

The

crooked tables were connected by federal

investigators to Sid Jacobs, Dino Cellini,

Joe Napolitano and Joseph Krikorian-

all longtime Lansky men.

"Remember

that when we grabbed

these 'juice tables' a million-dollar tour-

American suckers to Haiti,'

eral investigator,

"Both Pan American

ind Trans Caribbean Airways were eag-

erly promoting travel there. Their leaf-

lets ind ads emphasized that in Haiti

the casinos were Happy to take care of

int rambline needs.

It was true-but

BEFORE YOU DU: ANY MOWI

SNA PIPEA

IT'S DIFFERENT!

O No other mower is built like it!

• No other mower performs like it!

O No other mower is so useful!

VACUUM CLEANS YOUR LAWN.

WHILE MOWING TO PIAFECTION

Collects clippings, leaves, pine straw, etc.

in the extra large, center mounted

bag. Trims close on either side. A

collea gas or to use on year round.

Hand or Self-Propelled

21" Priced as low as

*$600.95

Plus freight and taxes

*Suggested list price.

See your dealer

(check Yellow Pages)

or write for free brochure

and dealer name.

McDONOUGH

POWER

EQUIPMENT,

INC.

McDONOUGH, GEORGIA 30253

!! FLIGUA

MOUNTAI

Financial sources with an interest in

certain that the contretcmps

of the casino fixtures has not sidetracked

the syndicate's plans for a killing in Flai-

The executive vice-presi-

dent of a Caribbean development cor-

poration based in Montrcal is so firmly

convinced of this that he had recently

acquired a chaufleur for his Alfa-Romeo

sports car, along with i shotgun to be

kept under the chaufleur's seat.

I never dreamed I'd need a body.

quard," the executive tokl True recently,

"But we are muder increasing pressure

from hoodlums to relinquish our beach-

front land options near Port-an-Prince

and on Gonâve Island to some very good

people' in Florida. Relinquish them,

mind you, for token payment. Of course,

we have stockholders io think of. We

can't sell off land options if we know they

are about to appreciare: and that's what

will happen if a new gambling and tour-

ist boom starts up in flaiti. But we are

really feeling the mol, pressure to sell

Moreover, is 1970 began, i new figure

appeared in Port-an-Prince. Immaculate

and dapper as ever, Siniling Mikc Mc.

Laney radiated charm and the promise

of casy riches as he made ready to reopen

the International Casino.

In the '50's, when Meyer Lansky ruled

gambling in Cuba, Mike McLaney man-

aged Havana's foremost casino, the glit-

tering Nacional. In the 'GO's, when Lan-

sky's trail turned to the Bahamas, so did

McLaney's. As Hank Messick, the patient

noted in this connection:

"Where mot

nived crime is concerned, history his is

Way of repcating itsclf."

it does, indeed. For tie '70's open wah

Mike McLaney, still the most cool bui

polished casino manager west of Monr

Carlo, preparing to bring

little orphon

Haiti her "first real season of big-in

Will it work? In recent momhs, the

Nixon Administration has begun 1o pris

militants who, in carlier years enjoye

strong GlA support. Washington is see:

to have decided lo live witle lipa l

It is now entirely possible dat Hairi

will blossom into the El Dorado of Cas

piers, casino opcrators, hoodlums, win

makers. promoters,

whores envisioned as

the commonis

achievemem of Meyer Lansky's Canüir

bean empire-building. bet it will rem"

a land of beggars, blood and bestiali!

for Haitians so long as Papa Doc is alise.

"And maybe that is Mr. Lansky's on

miscalculation-an actuarial error.

Bernard Sansarica. the sad-eyed.

spoken young ani-Duvalier leaser whos

entire family has vanished into the pid.

ace's torture chambers. "Mister Lansly

is smart, but he has seen so much killing

he is hard to surprise, no? Maybe we wili

surprise him soon with just oue killin:

And when we kill Duralier. we will los

with him every single thing ever touch

by Mr. Lansky and his invisible see:"

---

## Page 21

ON STERN

JON STERN

and as a paramilitary "adviser." He is

hemisphere. I am totally opposed 1o

a compulsive warrior, an armed cru-

it, and to the spread of ideological

sader fighting against what Gov. Les-

germs and filth that it brings."

ter Maddox calls "ungodly Common-

Now and again,

WerBell's name

ism." WerBell is not alone in this oc-

pops into the news, bringing Powder

cupation, but he practices it in a Springs a certain national attention.

unique manner. Most soldiers of for- _AndrewSt Georg a noted journal-

tune are nothing else; and they-live

ist-adventurer, a few years ago wrote

from one little war to the next, brawl-

pieces for True and London's Daily

ing and boozing their way through a

Telegraph Magazine on arms brokers

tough and financially unrewarding

and sprinkled them liberally with tales

life.

and pictures of WerBell's exploits

WerBell, by contrast, is a business-

The first issue of the new muckraking

man who dabbles in military adven-

magazine, Scanlan's, carried an ex

ture only when and as far as it suits

haustive story on CBS' involvement in

bim. If combat didn't titillate him, he

an abortive invasion of Haiti in 1966-

wouldn't partake of it. His business is

and WerBell was credited with a

supplying weapons, not using them in

major, if uncertain, role in the opera

anger. He specializes in the weapons

tion. (WerBell was arrested and in-

and

techniques of counter-insur-

dicted after the fiasco, but charges

gency," which may be roughly de-

against him were dropped, while six

fined as the forceful suppression. of

others arrested were brought to trial.

coups d'étal, rebellions and the like.

Asked by a friend for an explanation,

The way WerBell operates,

this

WerBell replied jauntily, "When you.

means defending established regimes,

some of them dictatorships, against

o you. theever hear they take word

armed revolt. This political posture

about it." So far he hasn't, he main-

not only docs not trouble WerBell, it

tains.)

pleases him. "I have no objection to

Last December, WerBell hit the

dictatorship if it serves the interests of

front page of The Atlanta Constitu-

the country," he says. Particularly if

tion when a shipment of captured

the threat to those interests is from

enemy weapons bound from Vietnam

the left: "Communism has no place in

was detained at Eglin Air Force Base,

the Western hemisphere or in any

Florida. A national columnist conjec-

48 AUGUST: ATLANTA

tured that WerBell or his friends

meant to distribute the weapons io

right-wing extremist groups in the

U.S. WerBell angrily

denies that.

They were souvenir weapons given to

him by friendly forces in Vietnam, he

said, and they were shipped to

States for display in military mu-

seums:

Not surprisingly, WerBell has often

been called an operative ef the,Cen-

tral Intelligence Agency (CIA),

charge that angers him only when it is

leveled too vehemently. It is not thai

he has anything against the CIA. He

just doesn't, he says, happen to be

one of its boys. His paramilitary

work, which consists of advising and

sometimes directly assisting foreign

governments, is done in the employ of

what he calls "an independent group

oí well-intentioned, patriotic Aineri-

cans." The Birch Society? The Min-

utemen? A bunch of far-right Texas

millionaries? WerBell won't say, other

than to insist that it is not the CIA.

It hardly matters, for according to

WerBell it is all in the service

not

only of freedom and anti-Communism

but of the U.S. government; he does

not supply or advise or fight for re-

gimes not bearing the State Depart-

ment seal of approval. A heary per-

centage of his merchandise goes di-

12

---

## Page 22

14-00000

EXHIBITS

rOW?! THE DRIVEWAY that snakes And there hasn't been a single Ameri-

through the country estate came two

can casualty."

(cen-aged boys. They were clean-cut

Moments later, as WerBell and I

and handsome in the traditional col-

stood closer than I like to an operat-

lege fashion, and they looked at home

ing firearm, young Mitch and Geoff

ise the quier, leaty setting. But one

puniped round after round from the

wore a camouflage suit and carried a

weapons into the bullet-shattered hulk

large pistol in each land; the other

of an automobile that serves as the

had an M-3 "grease gun" tucked

under one arm

and

a silencer-

primary target on the WerDell fidug

range. While the boys were loading, I

equipped sniper rifle under the other.

was struck by the incongruity of the

Behind them, propelling himself vig-

orously in a wheelchair, came their

setting. The 60-acre Powder Springs

estate, designed do fulfill the hunting

father, Mitchell Livingston WerBell

and fishing desires of its first owner,

I1I of Pondir Springs, Georgia-sol-.

Talmadge Dobbs of the Life Insurauce

dier of fortune, militant anti-Com-

Company of Georgia, was now being

munist and one of the nation's leading

used for the design

and testing of

developers of military weapons and

accessories.

deadly weapons. Dobbs, I thought,

would spin in his grave.

Mitch IV and Geoff chatted lightly

My little reverie was interrupted by

about the weapons they were carry-

-Ing- Their fatier, temporarily immo-

the BANG of young Mitch firing one

pistol, a standard Army 45. The gun

bilized by a fractured heel, punctured

jerked upward, and the noise echoed

the conversation with brief bursts of

information about the sniper rifle, one

across the fields and treetops. He then

picked up a strange, smoothly rectan-

of his most choice products. "This

weapon has killed nineteen hundred

gular handgun, an Ingram Model 1!

equipped with a "flash and muzzle

V.C. [Viet Cong) in six months," he

said proudly. "Those V.C. took only

suppressor," and began firing it. The

muzzle barely moved, and the only

one-point-three rounds per kill.

sound was a metallic click, followed

Twenty-seven cents apiece they cost

Uncle Sam. That's the greatest cost

by the zing of the bullet and the pop

as it hit the target. The effect was

effectiveness the Army's ever known.

eerie, almost chilling, especially when

LEFT: Mitchell WerBall and son, Mitchell WerBell, IV

Raad (HDO, M.P..

Beirut, Lebanon), Amos B. Naure CM. BELOW: Mitchell WerBell,

Fort Gordon). Geott WerBell and Gordon ingram. designer of the Mayi

young Mitch put the gun on full auto-

matic and whipped off 15 clicking

rounds in one second. Geoff provided

the same kind of demonstration with

the grease gun. a standard military

submachine gun and the sniper rifle,

which WerBell calls the XM-21 and

which is also equipped with a sup-

pressor.

On the way back to the house,

WerBell explained why the suppres-

sor, commonly called a silencer, is so

effective a firearm accessory.

hides the muzzle flash and reduces the

firing sound to just metal on metal.

You can't silence the bolt nöise with-

out an elaborate system, and it's not

worth it. You can't hear the bolt noise

anyway in a combat situation, so for

all practical purposes the füring is

soundless. Often, the loudest noise is

when the bullet hits home. If it hits a

human, it makes a peculiar, thunking

sound, like hitting a watermelon."

Mitch WerBell sounds completely

matter-of-fact when he talks about

firearms and death, and with reason.

He has been in the military hardware

business for years, and he has either

heard or produced or both the

thunking watermelon sound many

times in Latin America and South-

east Asia, in the U.S. armed forces

---

## Page 23

rectly to the U.S. government, which

forces; and, occasionally, his personal

poses are almost as varied as the

distributes it to its own forces that

services.

These

services

preseny

weapons themselves: from mowing

need silent or exotic weapons. The

WerBell at his most shadowy. Serving

down a line of combat troops to si-

balance is sold to friendly govern-

as a combatant in the armed forces of

lently picking off a lone V.C. to cut-

ments, either directly or through the

a foreign nation is against U.S. law,

ting short a would-be assassin to turn-

good

offices of the "independent

and WerBell is understandably reluc-

ing the tables on the bad guys by as-

group." He says he does not sell to in-

tant to admit having done so. He de-

sassinating them.

dividuals, not even if they're certified

scribes himself in such terms as "par-

The headquarters for this work, the

anti-Communists.

amilitary" and "adviser,"

but ac-

former Dobbs estate, is on Highway

WerBell takes pains to point out

quaintances suspect he has been in

360 just outside of Powder Springs in

that he is no ordinary arms broker.

the thick of the fighting a number of

a remote section of Cobb County. Ac-

That is, he is not one of those shad-

times. He may even have zapped an

owy figures who sell weapons to both

insurgent or two.

tually, corporate headquarters is in

Washingten, D.C, in a firm called

sides at exerbitant prices or who take

For one thing, he loves a fight.

Environmentai Industriss, Inca

possession of contraband shipments

"Mitch is afraid of nothing," says a

neat euphemism for a gompany dedi-

on the high seas. "We do represent

long-time Atlanta friend. "I remem-

cated to killing people. Environmental

certain producers other than our-

ber he used to get into fights in bars.

Industries, WerBell says, is bank-.

selves, and we can get a tank or a de-

One time he got into a hassle at the

rolled by some of the East's most

stroyer or an airplane for customers

railroad station. He was seeing some

prominent investment houses; he is its

who want them. But we've never been

friends off, after having a few drinks,

director of international operations..

in the surplus business, and we've

and he decided he didn't want the

He is also president of a subsidiary

never supplied both sides. We've always

train to leave just then. He wound up

called Military Armaments Company.

adhered to a basic policy: There is only

getting arrested, and

the list of

Inc., and because hej is in_ Powder

one friend of the U.S. in a given area,

charges, resisting arrest and all that,

Springs, Military Armaments is there

and we deal only with that friend."

kept stressing "profanity' at the tag

What does WerBell peddle? A

end of each charge. He was a wild

1100. (Behind Environmental Indus-

tries,

WerBell_ says, is

- a third

range of firearms from machine guns

one, all right."

shadow, of which E.I. is a subsidiary"

to desk-sized cannons, from the

The WerBell of today still likes his

-another, tantalizing hint of the

meancst-looking weapons to innocent-

whiskey and savors a good round of

CIA.)

looking swagger sticks that fire a bul-

counter-insurgency, but the urge to

Military Armaments may well be a

let or even a small rocker; an array of

fight for the hell of it is waning. He is,

unique American enterprise. Nobody

techniques "systems," he calls them

after all, primarily a businessman, a

else, WerBell says, is in the business

-that will help an American soldier

designer, developer, and peddler of

of designing special purpose weapons

or a foreign army hold off insurgent special

purpose weapons. The pur- / continued on page 58

AUGUST: ATLETTA 19

70

---

## Page 24

Contempora colors the fall fashion scene with beautiful subtlety, in grey

with beige. Costuming like this, designed by Belle Sounders for Abe Schrader,

will see you around the world. Textured wool knit, 165.00 at lord & Taylor,

Phipps Plaza, Peachiree Road between Wieuco and lenox Roads, Atlanta.

58 AEGUST: ATLANTA

WerBell from page 49

on such a scale. A good deal of its de-

signing and manufacturing is done

under federal license. Silencers. for

example, are outlawed by the Na-

tional

Firearms Act,

along

with

sawed-off shotguns, submachine guns,

and other vestiges of Prohibition Era

gangland wars.

To manufacture his

suppressors, WerBell must pay a spe-

cial tar. of $500 a year, collected by

the U.S. Treasury Department. The

T-men also check periodically to see

that his awesome collection of fire-

arms-over 200 individual pieces—-is

properly registered. Apparently the

market for suppressors is not very

large, because according to WerBell,

his firm is the only one authorized to

manufacture them.

WerBell will not discuss the sales

or profits of Military Armaments ex-

cept to say that, after two years of ex-

tensive research and development (re-

sulting in "a tax loss of a half million

dollars"), the company is now doing

very well. It has about 12 employees,

including four machinists who work

under the direction of Gordog/In-

grat the mustached,

sport sint

wearing vice-president of Engineering

whp has charge of the design opera-

tion. Ingram's name is on the Model

11 submachine gun that young Mitch

demonstrated for me on the firing

range. Ingram works in a well-

equipped machine shop-lab attached

to the main house on the estate, which

WerBell likes to call "the farm."

WerBell's office is next door to the

shop. Its walls are so loaded with

weapons, it is a-wonder they do not

collapse. There are knives and spear

guns and pistols and rifles and ma-

chine guns, dozens and dozens of

them, some purchased, some won in

combat, some presented by the appre-

ciative recipients of WerBell's

counter-insurgency techniques.

WerBell,

who has a sense of

humor, calls his enterprise a "cottage

industry" and likens himself to "a

country doctor. . . . I can fall out of

the living area upstairs right down to

the office." Upstairs is the domain of

his German-born wife Hildegard, a

pleasant, gray-haired woman who has

borne WerBell six children and put

up with his rather unusual way of life.

(When he left for the Far East in

1968, he said he'd be gone for a year

or more, and he was.) WerBell's only

upstairs

sanctuary is the

"arms

room," a small room containing

wide assortment of weapons, some

---

## Page 25

LUGEND

Lugene is a boutique for eye fashion...

After a few days your physician's prescription is ac-

curately transposed into fine and attractive looking eve

wear. Sunglasses, cyeglasses or tunglasses are designed

and made in our own shop by duplicating carefully your

ornlenses... in Palm Beach, New York and now Atlanta,

Lugene is a guild optician.

Phipps Plaza

3500 Peachtree Road

10 10 6 and Thursday nights/ Our eelephone is 261-2670

Traveled with any

topbrass

lately?

If not, shouldn't you start

now? That tinny stuff some

luggage makers use for

hardware can hurt your

image. And it won't stand

up to stress in the long run,

the way top brass does. You

see, proper hardware-

locks, rivets, buckles, studs

ince it's insis

-should be made of solid forged brass. Never inferior metals

plated to look like brass. At Mark Cross, when we plate brass,

we use only gold-as we've done for over a century. We believe

you should travel first class, no matter what your ticket reads.

MARKCROSS/ The place for luggage

New: York/San Francisco/Beverly Hills/ Atlanta/Detroit/Bal Harbour, Fla. |

them valuable antiques. There is ?

Mongolian beheading sword, a pair of

1,000-ycar-old Japanese short swords

with laminated sicel blades, and a

Chinese-nade Mauser carbine "worth

from three to five thousand dollars."

Mitchell WerBell is a short, wiry

man of 52, quick with a quip and

quite sensible until he begins talking

about Communism or other social is-

sues. Te has the faie and boding ef is

Prussian officer, an image he culti-

vated by wearing a mustache and oc-

casionally a monocle. (Actually, some

people think he looks like comedian

Jerry Colonna with his musiache,

comparison he definitely would

not

tind flattering. No matter. Both mus-

tache and inonocle are gone now, lost

to his effort to promote a "lower pro-

file" for himself.) He often dresses

around the office in military clothing

of indeterminate origin, and he en-

bellishes the image by talking in

slightly clipped sentences peppered

with military phrases. There is noth-

ing phony in this. WerBell has a

strong attachment to weapons and to

warfare, and he has been around

them so long that the ideas and styles

they foster are an ingrained part of

his personality.

He comes by both his militarism

and his anti-Communism honestly.

His father was an officer in the Rus-

sian Imperial army, even though he

was born in the United States.

"It was

a tricky situation," says Mitch. "He

was a citizen of both the U.S. and

Russia. In those days you could do

that." The elder WerBell fought

against the Bolsheviks, but before the'

collapse of the czarist regime he

wisely secured an appointment as liai-

son officer between the Russian and

American forces-stationed in the

U.S. He lived in this country for the

rest of his life, putting his early medi-

cal training to use in cancer research

while living the good life. "My father

was a man of means," Mitch says. "He

traveled a lot, did a lot of big game

hunting, things like that."

Father came by that honestly too.

For generations, the WerBells have

been men of means. Mitch traces the

family to 13th-century France, where

the name was spelled "Vertbelle." At

least one branch of the family emi-

grated to Russia, where the French

name became Russianized, with the

final "e"

dropped

and

the ""

changed to "W." It is impossible to

know just how strongly Mitch was in- (5

fluenced by his father's battle against

---

## Page 26

14-00000

this Boishcairs, but certainly the influ-

• ence

was considerable;

the White

Russiars and thoir descendants have

long been among the uncompromising

anti-Communists.

Another legacy from father is

Mitch's barcly disguised aristocratic

sympathies. He has been quoted as

saying, "Communism is a substitution

of a peasant dictatorship over the ar-

¡storary prefer the arictocrocgi"

He scoffs at such statements as "I lid

about being a constitutional monarch-

ist, bu: only if I'm the monarch"

, yet

ic is without question an elitist. Nol

surprisingly, his elite is comprised of

superpatriois and military men, who

would be given powerful roles in any

nation's affairs.

Mitchell iVerBell was born in

Pennsylvania, shortly after his Rus-

sian-American father and his

Scottish-bern mother arrived in the

U.S. at the end of World War I. His

parents traveled a good deal, here and

abroad, and Mitch traveled

with

them, picking up his education as he

went. He got a degree in journalism

from the University of Pennsylvania

in World War II, he joined the OSS, a

sort of cloal-and-dagger Green Beret

operation. He served with an OSS

unit behind Japanese lines in. China.

rising to the rank of captain and ac-

quiring a taste for guerilla-type war-

fare he would never lose.

WerBell came to Atlanta shortly

after the war and went to work for

Rich's advertising department. It was

a small department in those days, and

WerBell proved himself a capable ad

man. Soon he was head of the depart-

ment, and soon after that he went on

his own. He formed Mitchell WerBell

Advertising, which later became

WerBell, Seklemian and North. Vet-

eran Atlanta advertising men recall

WerBell as being aggressive and im-

aginative. a good addition to the busi-

ness. "He did some first-rate work,"

says one, "and he handled some big

accounts, Barwick Mills, for in-

stance *

In the mid-fifties, WerBell pulled

out of his agency (there are dark sto-

ries about how he was done in by as-

sociates), and the agency collapsed

not long afterward. He then formed

his own public relations firm, and

here the story line gets fuzzy_-be-

cause it begins to involve interna-

tional military intrigue. "I'd already

been drifting into international p.r.,"

WerBell says, "using my family back-

ground. I had tremendous contacts in

I. Miller. The shoe with the glorious past

now leads you to an exciting fashion future.

at the I. Miller Salon, Phipps Plaza,

3500 Peachtrce Rd., N. E., Atlanta.

AccUST: ATLesTA

63

r.

---

## Page 27

11-00890

SUBJECT

-

FILE NO.

CHARGE TO

123%

RECHARGE TO

0

DATE CHARGED OR RECHARGED

ROOM NO.

COMPONENT

ExTeNSION

REMARKS

ToBy 744 481-10151008

CHARGE-OUT SLIP

---

## Page 28

Bland Terry-

THE SOUTH'S FINEST

COLLECTION OF

IMPOFTED SHOES FOR MEN

BYBALLY

OF SWITZERLAND

A BOOT OF A SHOE, ankie-bone high

and soft to the touch os o fine wallet.

Cleverly molded into shope with sleek

overlaps, it cradles your foot in solid

comfort. gentled by the hand of o

Bolly crofismon. Genuine colf in

antique brown or mellow black, 47.00.

NOW OPEN MON. & THURS. NIGHT UNTIL 9

phipps plAzA 3500 PEACHTREE ROAD. N, E -

Invite

a real Prince!

When the right one comes along, the

right one is Gittings, America's

leading bridal photographer, to capture

all the excitement, ever so elegantly..

When Gittings does your formal

wedding colour portrait, engagement

and wedding glossies for the newspapers are complimentary.

And, of course you'll want Gittings colour candids;

complete coverage of your wedding and reception to re-live

happily ever afterward.

An idea of price: Formal wedding colour portraits start

as low as two for $85. Exciting colour candids begin

at just $7. each with duplicates even less.

Send your name, address and home address for free

bridal portrait brochure with full details: Write Gittings

Bridal Secretary/Phipps Plaza, Atlanta, Georgia 30305

Studios in Houston, Atlanta, Phoenix, and in

Neiman-Marcus/Dallas-Ft. Worth.

Bridal Portraits/ Candids

Gittings

Europe, and I moved into the Far

East, too." How much of this moving

in was military, WerBell won't say,

but his business took on more and

more of what he calls a "geopolitical"

flavor. Before long, he was dabbling

in Latin American dictatorships. "Be-

fore Fidel took over in Cuba, we were

working closely with Batista." He

adds with a grin, "Our function was

is keep Batisia in power, although the

U.S. government was looking favora-

bly on Fidel at that point."

From all this, even WerBell doesn't

know exactly how, came a passionate

concern about Communism.

cided to devote whatever time I could

to anti-Communist activities,"

says. "At first it was sort of a hobby,

but then it became my main drive in

life. What I'm doing now"- here he

gestures at the arsenal of his office

walls "affords me a damned good

living. But the living is not why I do

it"

In 1948, while anti-Communis

was still a hobby, albeit a paying

hobby, WerBell purchased the Dobbs

estate. He installed rudimentary de-

sign facilities and began experiment-

ing

with

weapons

of counter-

insurgency, weapons he believed had

the best chance of preventing Coni-

munist takeovers in the small, under-

devcloped nations of Asia and Latin

America. "I realized that in counter-

insurgency, the primary problem was

a lack of depth im weaponry. People

say, Win the hearts of the enemy,

and you'll win the fight.' That's a lot

of bull. The best way to get their

hearts,

if they're the enemy, is to

shoot 'em and cut the hearts out."

While he experimented with weap

ons quietly, to avoid problems with

the federals-WerBell proceeded with

his personal brand of geopolitics. He

made himsel

available to anti-

Communist regimes that wanted help

in fighting off one band of insurgents

or another. In the process, he became

friendly

with a number of Latin

America's political strongmen. They

were delighted to discover a norte-

americano who felt as they did about

the need for stable, anti-Communist

regimes, especially their regimes, and

who had both the savvy and the guts

to help preserve them. WerBell, oper-

ating out of Powder Springs, fashioned

a nice little career for himself as a

paramilitary adviser.

He seldom

passed an opportunity to plug the

weapons he was developing back

home in the shop. His first major par-

---

## Page 29

14-00000

FREE.

Tha

Gingiss

Guide for

Greems.

No one has been up

the altar more times

than we have.

The Gingiss Guide for Grooms is a

handy 48-poge booklei that tells

what to do ebout getting married..

Questions lie what to wear.

And when. Who marches with

whom. Who gives what to whom.

All sorts of important matters-

and some trivial ones.

Any young couple getting

married should have it

It's Free.

Stop in and see us and check

out the latest in men's formalsvear.

Everything from double-breasted

Edwardian to morning costs with

striped pants.

We make sure it will fit perfectly.

No one has more experience in

the sales and rental of men's

formalwear than we do.

After all, wo've been getting

ready for your big day since we

started in 1934.

gingiss

Men's Formalwear Center

Phipos Plaza, Atlanta

261-0743

3320 Memorial Dr. NE

Decatur

284-8366

66

ACCLIT: ATLANTA

amilitary operation was in the Donin

ican Republic, during the 1965 revolt.

He was, of course, on the side of the

goverminent, which was fending off al-

legedly Communist insurgents; the

United States was on its side 10o.

WerBell wound up in the midsi of the

fighting. He was the second Domini-

can governincht man to reach the

Ozama River, scenc of the major bat-

tle. Ellsworth Bunker, then U.S. an-

bassador

10 ine Organization

oi

American States, becainc highly excr-

cised over W'erBell's activitics and his

hawkish view's on the conflict (Wer-

Bell opposed a cessation of hostilities

and establishment of a coalition gov-

ernment). Bunker considered trying

to loss WerBell out of the DomRep,

as old Caribbean hands cali the coun-

try, but nothing came of it. WerBcli's

"independent

group"-CIA, Texas

millionaires or whatever-saw to that.

WerBell was already active in the

anti-Castro

movement,

and

he

brought to it a sense of dash and dis-

cipline that the raglag,

bickering

bunch of Cuban exiles had seldom

seen. Perhaps his major anti-Castro

exploit was a speedboat foray into

Camarioca, on Cuba's southern coast.

The mission was to drop a swimmer,

apparently i spy, offshore, fand to

pick up the family of an exile leader.

The boat, flying the Confederate flag

on the radio antenna, foundered in

high seas, and the raiding party was

captured. The Cubans, the story goes,

did not know what to make of the

brash WerBell, and he and his pals

wound up stealing a Castro boat and

spiriting some 16 anti-Castroites out

of the country before they themselves

returned to the U.S.

In the late '60s, WerBell turned his

attention to Southeast Asia. He is, of

course, a superhawk on Vietnam, and

would be happy if the U.S. were also

fighting Communism in all its neigh-

boring countries. He was in Thailand

"working closely with the Supreme

Command," for months, promoting

the sales of his weapons and systems.

"I showed them things like surveil-

lance equipment and night vision

equipment, stuff that lets you surprise

the bell out of the bastards" (the

enemy). Did he do any fighting him-

self? WerBell chuckles.

"I ain't sup-

posed to be shooting the stuff, just

demonstrating how to shoot it."

Three years ago, WerBell's weap-

ons business

became

promising

enough for him to go into it full time.

He organized a firm called Sionics

SCARLET O HARA

.. a real doll

one of many from the Madame

Alexander Doll Collection...

Prices start at $5.95

cot.

SITES

IMPORTED.

Unusual gifts and toys

from all over the world

Phipps Plaza. 3500 Peachtree Rd., NE

Sherle Wagner sculpts a seashell basin

and stand, carved from a single, solid

piece of onyx,

$995. Matching fixtures

of onyx and 24 kt. gold plate,

from

$195.

Available in eleven other rare

stones. Builders and decorators inquiries

welcome.

Consters.

Papos Pia88, 3500 Peachtree RJ., N.E.. 261-9755

Also !008:9d al Bal Marbour Shost, Dal Ma:20ur, Fia.

---

## Page 30

fior" Studies in Operational Negation

of Insurgency and Counter-

Subversion"), lied in with Environ-

menial Industries, and began in carn-

est 10 develop a line of military hard-

ware. Sons Miich IV and Gcoff be-

came integral parts of the firm. Mitch

I was already a bona fide counter-

irsurgent. As a 15-ycar-old, he had

spent considerable time with Dad in

the Dominican Repubiic, specializing

in underwater probing for safe land-

ing sites. Gcoff, two years jounger,

barely missed out on a Cuban foray;

his father took him to Miami a few

years ago, but the plans fell through.

Under the company reorganization

that took place in May, both of the

boys have responsible positions:

Mitch IV, now 21, is a vice-president

in charge of sales for Military Arma-

ments, the successor to Sionics; Geoff,

18, is assistant director of Interna-

tional Operations. Each of them also

attends college-Mitch IV, Georgia

State University, and Geoff, Kenne-

saw Junior College-and they drive

oif to night classes after a day in the

lab or on the firing range. (WerBcll

suspects one of Geoff's teachers is a

Communist because he has been say-

ing soine favorable things about stu-

dent protesters. Generally, however,

the old man is pleased that the boys

are getting a college education. It will

better equip them for the job of run-

ning Military Armaments later.)

One day I sat in WerBell's office as

Geoff displayed a number of Military

Armaments®

most unusual weapons.

(Mitch IV was in Washington, dis-

playing some of the same to Pentagon

officials.) Geoff brought out

"the

Stinger,'

" a cigar-shaped tube three

inches long, weighing two-and-one-

half ounces, that fires a .22 cartridge.

Nothing

visible suggests a gun, and

the bullet, on its way out, dislodges a

thin plug that disguises the hole at the

end of the tiny barrel. WerBell com-

mends the Stinger to secret agents

who get caught with the goods and

must take "the last resort," that is,

shoot themselves.

. In the same exotic category is the

swagger stick, bound in leather, with

silver studs. By pushing between two

studs, one can fire a .22 or, with a

special model, a small rocket. The

bodyguard of Dominican strongman

General. Antonio Imbert used

rocket model to blast would-be assas-

sins a few years ago. Then there is a

small, brass-fitted cannon. It makes a

handsome knicknack for a soldier-

anothe

joy of

southern

living

OLD NICKOPYE

HOUSE

RESTAURANTS*

Barbarcs. Bunts sud Bed

Ms Berniel Sieg

Ris and click Rin

Where's Goradon Wow You

ATLANTI GHATTANGNGI

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Meet clandining

imra since

StiryotG-0-4053

Two 18-hole golf courses (1

championship, 1 lighted execu.

tive) • gourmet vining and din.

ing • luxurious guest rooms

meeting ferilities • Scottish b?.

ronial atmosphere • open year

"round • near airports and artc-

rial expressways. Write for bro.

chure: Ralph McEntyre, General

Manager, Miami Lakes Inn &

Country Club, Palmetio Express-

way & N.W. 154th Street, J

Miami Lakes, Florida

33014. Or call Miami

(305) 821-1150.

Miami Lakes lisa

& COUNTRY CLUB

feel more en

eve meenga

politician's desk. li fires, with

O1

WerBell, in fact, stays as aloo! fron,

simple finger novement, a bullet that

the local community as possible. His

will quiet an unruly visitor. More tra-

house is so well-stocked, it is practi-

ditionally military is WerBell's "spe-

cally self-sufficient save ter occasional

cial long-range linoclier outer,"

trips to the grocery and liquor siores.

redesigned Remington nine-millimeter

("The only disadvantage of living Out

rifle that "will plug "em in the eye it

hore," he says, "is that you have in

200 meters."

drive into Fulton County 1o get wiris-

The bulk of WerBell's business is

key:") There has been, from time io

sound suppressors and Ingram

time, ami-WerBell feeling in Powder

Model submachine guns. Suppressors

Springs. Hildegard WerBell helps

can be used on large as weii as smali

hoid it down by regular attendance al

recapons, and in fact have been used

the McEachern Memorial Methodist

cfiectively on the wicked-looking Vul-

Church. As for the resi of the feeling

can machine guns monied on Ameri-

WerBell declares,

"The hell with it.

can helicopters in Victnam. The Als-

Who cares? I tell 'em I'm prepared to

tralian Army Journal ran a story call-

purchase their property if they don't

ing the Sionics suppressor "superior

like the area."

te anything previously used ....

WerBell also sees little of his old

it) it is now possible for the

advertising buddies around Atlanta.

sniper to fire frons relatively short

"We jus: don't have much in common

ranges, especially when using sub

any more," he explains, in a resound-

sonic projectiles."

ing understatement. He does not suf-

WerBell is so enthusiastic about the

fer froin loneliness, however. There is

Model submachine

a steady stream of visitors and cus-

(there are two models, taking differ-

tomers, foreigners as well as Ameri-

ent sized cartridges) that he predicis

A few weeks ago WerBell's

they will eventually make "obsolete

son-in-law,

an Air Force lieutenant

individual

colonel, flew in from Ohio, mainly to

world." The U.S. Army, he says, is

see what was new around the shop; he

now looking carefully at the Ingram

hadn't been by in several months. he

models with an eye toward making

"and things change awfully

them standard equipment for Ameri-

quickly around here." The day I was

can soldiers; if that happens, the li-. there,

the colonel and WerBell

success of Military Arma-

swapped ideas on ridding the State

ments will presumably be assured.

Department of no-win policy malers

According to data published by the

and on bringing the enemy to its

firm, the. Ingram models are shorter,

knees, or its grave, in Vietnam.

lighter and capable of delivering more

WerBell recalls with relish one par-

firepower than anything on the mar-

ticular visitor. He came from the State

ket. They are also, WerBell says,

Department a few years back, and ac-

ideal for secret agents; they fit snugly

cording to WerBell, he said, "The

into a dispatch case (Military Arma-

functions of the foreign policies of the

ments makes the case, too), complete

United States are the business of the

with suppressor and six magazines.

State Department in Washington, not

Does WerBell feel a twinge of con-

of Mitchell WerBell in

science about providing the world

Springs, Georgia." WerBell's reply?

with such deadly and efficient weap-

"You can't print it. It was all in An-

ons? No. "I see no reason to be con-

glo-Saxon words." But that was the

cerned," he says.

"We're supplying a

old, swashbuckling

WerBell.

The

certain product that is unfortunately a

new, low profile WerBell says with a

part of the civilized world. As long as

grin, "My present policy is that I

people exist, there's going to be an

agree with that theory completely. Pe-

arms business. I don't see much dif-

ference between our supplying arms

riod."

If actions to the contrary speak too

to combatants and a surgical supply

loudly, they, like WerBell's weapons,

house supplying gauze to bind up the

can always be suppressed by the man

wounds inflicted." There is his anti-

himself. Meanwhile, Mitch and his

Communist argument, too. WerBell is

"independent group" march on.

fighting the Communist menace; it is

a fight that must be won and weapons

are needed to win it.

Contrary

to cynical opinion,

Powder Springs was not named in

honor of WerBell and his enterprise.

---

