# 104-10165-10120

## Page 1

104-10165-10120

MATERING TEVIEMI

HOUSE SELECT CORITIE

AT CI: INANUAPTIRS 1Y

ASSASSINATIOUS STAFF NIRS

FILE TITLE/M091BEP./VOLUI1E:

PARIS -

SETT-AT. /

(CONElA, L.)

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIM UNIT/LOCATION:

1944-1945

LE/TECHIVES

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

DATE

DAlT

RECHIVED RETURNED

REFITTED BY

(PPINT NNIE)

DAN HAEDWAY

STATURE OF

REVIENTAG OFFICIAL

Handway

07

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED NE REMOVED FROM TUTS FILI:.

610 FORDS D SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEU

D.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RESIAIZTED

He & HO DETACHINE

OFFICE CF STiNTBGIC ES VICES

Duroptan Intater of Cerations

United States..mg

(LAIM)

OPFICER PARIS O5$

APO.413

2 Xa7 1945

SUBJECT: Battle Participation sards

TO:

Fersonnel Concerned,

In accordance with authority contrined in letter, Ha, Daropean ID, USa,

file 1G 250.6 Opti, subject, "Battle Participation avares -

• Northern France

Canmaten (To 2)" iated 31 Janusty 1915, in- Mart cE babble parsicitation credit

Jor the lorthern Fance Campaign to the Coring indiriduals of the Ilth Special

Force Deteciment, whu served with Hq, 3rd US fy during the period for saich

battle parcicipation eredit is authorized is antunced:

It Col FEZRE I. PONDIL

MOL FEEY E• BARTLETT, JI

mORs

Ist It, RiZICND:P. BABINEAU

ist It HiIIiNT. HIPLEY

• Ist It FArCIS C. NOSETT

Ist It ASEmi J. LEBLANC

Ist Lt FORES C. LIHATULT

1st

It

PRE:FC.D-T. WAISH

0329025

C3% Sat Sherwood C. Hurray

0366695

Sgt Gilmar He Nolson

0366979

CiC Iu; do isllion Do Link.

C1284241

Ini' (I1 ICO So Altieri

01319466

Inê Cpl Lichael Drizik

• C1165940

Col David i Melvin

C1014505

Int Cal Milliam I Shimko

CiA 6454

Ini

Col desse I. Snith

01301169

"Int

Tes 5.John D. Brown

01185152

FA

Ice 5. Stephen D. Finale

C1995386

AUs

Tcc 5 Izurice Shire

150

sgt

Tood SteE. Cox

..31212245

Tec

Similian H. Cooper, Jr

Pfe Carl Fioravanti

35203002

Fic Clors 2. Hayes

Ter.

3 Harcld I Rader

37534594

Sgt Wilbert & Clover

24115600

Fie Hilliar I. Mcgill

Pfe Isaiah Crosby, .

III,

Ffe dinos. 1.

Como ton

31340147

38563210

35556797

31361242

36757441

34673336

32953027

42000338

15307130

32685399

32975556

36757520

36757758

32953039

3136E052

35863631

3Ey order of Colonel FOrGiN:

DIST A BUTICH:

"B" "D" & "p

DESPATCHED

a0nv 18g6

0.3. 5

For,

ACD,

utints

12?

see 126

aris-Sist-Ai-l

- 1-

Bre - folded

RESIIISTEP

---

## Page 3

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL,

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "'TO" column.

Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient)

before further routing.

This Routing and Retord Sheet should be returned to Registry.

ROM:

NO.

DATE

ROOM

NO.

DATE

mC'D

FWD'D

OFFICER'S

INITIAL$

COMMENTS

2%. Rage

SR

PLEASE INITIAL AFTER REVIEVING

RETURN TO RECORDS CENTER

HE DATE METE USE

:-B0x 15

64112

DOCUMENT: 291

FOLDER:

RETURN TO

RI/ARCHIVES

112

R&S

To 53 51-10

PREVIOUS EDITIONE

TAY BE USED

SECRET

PAGE.®

BOX:

1

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

• 10)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

HESIAICIER

193 007

HQ l Ha DETACHIENT

OFFICE OF STATEGIC SENICES DEPUTY OFFIER PARIS DES

Europen Trouter of Cportion

United States army

200,6/17-:15

AFO 443

3100 11945

SUBJECT: ¡attle Farticipation.riards

ID

* Peranal Concerned.

In accordance with authority contained in letter, Fa, Kuropean I 0, US

•Army, file. do 200.6 Spra, subject, "Battle Farticipation stard - Gemary Campsiga

(ilo 2)", datod 5 Februnry 1945, the award of battle paricipation credit for the

Germany Campaign to the Iollosing indivirals of the 055, 31 Field Detacliment Kio

"served idth Ha, Ist US army dumne the furiod for which tittle participation creiit

• 1s authorized, 1s announced:

It Col KENNETH T. DORNS

lin j TRAFFOrd P. FLOTS

KaJ ICJIS DUPS

-Tapt LYMAN L. KIKPATIICK

Ist It CICVIS R. GLGUCN

Ist It HiRE E. HISSAL, Jr

2nd It iCIl%. HONINCKE

T Sgt Jcan B. ferthciner

Sgt Fater N. Holkonsky

Sg. Victor I. Kirouac

Tec & Louis J. Xanthopoulas

Tec i Ralph F. Kessler

Cpl Alba B. Kartin

Tec 5 Thomas H. Farrow

Tec 5 John Co Dullont

1 Pfc David X Doyle

090312

C403682

0395883

w725471

01551406

01325673

031017

35526156

:33448976

21008192

31039207

32424876

33/54004

33638313

32943342

:10601712

Int

Cav

it's

Crl

Inf

USUCR

DESPATCHEr.

MAY 10,48

7...

O. S. S.

WEy order of Colonel. FDMall:

DISTSIZURICA:

17\

«3", "D" & ip"

Rel als0127

RESIRELED

Major, sid,

adjutant.

Paris- Suct-ad.!!

Bars foldint!

---

## Page 5

HQ & HQ DETACHKENT

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

EUROPEAN THEATER 03 OPERATIOIS

UNITED STATES ARMY

(FORMARD)

APO 887

1 July 194}

SUBJECT: Minites of leeting of Awards & Decorations Poard.

• See Distribution®

The meeting was convered at the call of the President

:2000 hours, 26 June 1945 in the Directors Office.

Boardstawardo.

2. Present were:

It Col C. BOMMAN

President

Cudr PEELPS

Maj H. DVID

Ist It S.k. HOLBERG

2d Lt If. PARSONS

Recorder

07

30

For aisposition of recomendations for awards see

attached sheet.

Col Forgan's desire to have the board assum greater

responsibility in assessing the merits of individuals for rhon

recommendations for awards are presented to it was brought to

the board's attention by Col Zorman and namimously approved.

It was decided that herealter the loard would,

19 it deemed

the step necessary, require the branch recommending an award

to produce further

authentication of statements. mide In any

recommendation and ta general to see that the greatest degree art.

continuity possible be maintained in recommendations for awards

and decorations.

The meeting adjourned at

0010 hours, 27 June 1945.

dra x Parsons

IRA HA. PARSONS

a 1t3 Ascen

1: 1 Inel:

Survey of Board Recourendations.

DISARIBUTION:

Coumanding Officer OSS/ETO

Adjutant: (lain)

Citations Board, Hashington

Communications, London

Bel, Paris

Secretariat

Washington

SI,

London

LO, London

Sir.

Paris

---

## Page 6

14-00000

BRATCH:

SO

SI

SI

SI

81

SI

NO

HALE

ACTION TAKEN

DISTINGUISEID SERVICE CROSS

"Capt T.J. 'Layton

Put Pod. Yakes

(Posthunous)

Alfons Blonttrock

It Paul L'Hoest, Bel Army

G.B.H. Gelissen

Jan Suets

Sr Sgt Leon Adrian, Pol Aray

Albert Allart

It Arnold Vandervalk

Approved

Approved. #111 bel sent to

7th Army for concurrence.

approved

• Approved

Approved

Approved

Returned for rewrite.

Approved

Approved

LEGION OF WRIT

Maj Taleusz Szzowski (Degree of Legionnaire) Approved.

Col Guy Nestmacott,

it: Col Rozer La ront

SI

7-2

SI

SO

SI

DO

SI

SI

SI

S1

SI

SI

120

SILVER STAR

Josef Kapplus

2d Lt Hardo I. Worpurgo

Approved

Aoproved. I1ll be sent to

BROSZZZ STAR

Mal PREal Harrison, Br irmy

jApproved.

Maj Eoner David

Approved

2d It Turcel H.l. Goosens, Bel Army

Approved.

Frydezyk Synowiec

Retumed for rewrite

Sgt aladyslaw Plotrowskl, Pol Army Approved

Sgt Jan Pradzynski

Pol Army

Retirned for reurite

Sgt zbigniew Strzelinsid, Fol Army

• Returned for rewrite

Tadensz Rawski

Returned for rewrite

Sgt Jozet Celer, Pol Army

Returned for reurite

Ist It A. Turano

Returned for rearite

Maj Plerre I, Turquet, Br ATly

Approved

2d It P. Golliot

Approved for upgrade to

Silver Star

Ist It H.D

Approved

2d It 1e

, Feldan

Returned for rewrite

Cndt Gerard lorel, Fr Arry

Approved

Maj Arno P. Howitz

Approved

2d It H. Co Batm

Approved

Capt AItred Glovetti

Approved

Capt J.W. Eclatters

Approved

Capt But Brittenham

Approved

THEATER COMMANDES CERTIRICATE OF HERIT

Prt Cerard Habr

Approvec

T Sgt. Richard I Plinkett

Held

Paris- feel Cid-1.

Fredenl

---

## Page 7

BRANCH

DO

ribo

THIT COLANDERS CERTIFICATE OF MERIT

: Capt Fred B. W1111ams

Approved

Wilbur

Approved

i Sgt F.P. Bishop

Approved

T Sgt inu. Ingram

Disapproved

i G.H. Prudharme

Approved

Hiss Doris Pearch

Approved

Mrs Thelma Horgan

Returned for rewrite

Kys R.F. IcShane

Returned for rewrite,

i Sp(X)2cl R.S. kalee

Approved. Returned for citation

i CY H. Hayfield

Returned for citiatión to

recormendation

It(Jg) Eoll. Burke

Approved

Capt Kenneth Ro Boyle

Beturned. for more detatl:

M Set Jo Stion

Approved

sgt .A. Thornton

Disapproved

Pfc

R.

An zbocis

Held for further authentication

Cpl

Halter L.

Cpl

W.

Freund

Held for further authentication

Sypesteyn

Held

for. further authentication

Cpl

Ro

Hand

Held for Iurther authentication

Gpl E. Pe Kurz

Fell for further authenticatior

I Sgt S.J. Bun

Approved

---

## Page 8

PEQTRIATEDD

308 A:

ta:"

dore os"

Ale, seco o arolaton and a e (8) cosa a i l ero al pard se

2 Jealeg

IO 1-18 30 SUA 22A4

2 - CO flo (ostunilento)

19

RESTRICTED

---

## Page 9

14-00000

30ї7

NE & FO LITACHEN

CITICE CY SPLITINIC JUNIOR

CUTTRI JUTES ALT

(FOREARD)

• 20066 ₫

420 80Y

23 my 1945

scarat, ironetedles of Amare

ittno do unmade and incorutions treme

This headmarters agnessod the folloming mard on Indieaseds

gossades course do Grayeroe LoRden of Nerdo 90 59 5 307, 22415

For she Commandlag CITICAls

wow: D.

GORECT Me ITTITS

a fare Cal

32:

---

## Page 10

14-00000

sco,

H. A HEROT

(838-400)

100 887

23 uny 1945

20006 1X

SANTO? Return of Decoration

" To

atta do arda and cocorationa sranes

Inszuch un this citiser las been frazafered to Fe O of Ftrategio

frazaferned so toss Londguirte

for the Coraling cifleet,

Lent, daljutant

117

---

## Page 11

14-00000

D. Be 3731

OR FETY IN

FROK

DITS

122. May

1945

CARRIER SHORT EQ OSS. EFOCSA

(sust romeia rita ettashed par)

BOEDER, DERA LINE UNDER ZA, USE ZITTER HIDALL

warers: Awarda

Eila joL 200 610

For your Intornation

3007

SecreT

tavia

I Inc.

ItT Thie ha, dta 4 lay,

file 200.6

re return of award. of 1at It J-L. Singlanb.

CSS FOR: 10. J

• Page I

Lift Here

Dae other side

---

## Page 12

14-00000

3007

FIQ A BA DETACICEIT

OPTICE OF STRATEDIC SERVICES

SUROPIAN TIZATER OT OPTRATICNS

LITE STATES ART

(PORTARD)

200.6-SIHIAZO: J0To(O)A5

APO 6O7

SUCT & noter of Amr

ATrONIC AO Amands and Decorations Branta

Conoral ander to, T5, Leniquarters, 170. dated 25 12p1l 1945

murdo the bronse star to lat I4 J. K. SI:G103.

basauch as this

offlees ban been transferred to Handquarters, Office of Strategie

servieed, Fashington, D.Co. 18 15 requsatod that action in presentation

of tale decoration be transferred to that headmarters.

for the Commanding offleers

88j0%, CIC

Amste AdJutant

1 Incle

Frense Star 1odel

---

## Page 13

Hi & it DETACHIDE

OFFICE CF STRATEDIC SERFICES

European Theater of Oçerations

United States Ary

(VAIN)

1PO 413

.22 June 1945

• 200. 6-1165

SUbJECT. Hards and Decorations.

in & Personnel Coactated.

Feference 1s nade to Seculon III, Fersomal Lenorandin lo Ió, this head-

quarters,

dated 20 Lay 1945•

1: 2.

Irasuch as it is the responsibility of the lüscallaneous Section,

Adjutantis Office, Crsice of Strategie Services (Main), APO 413, to co ordirate

all inis tation concamir amris zai ascorsicas for Difice of Strztegic Services

persornel in the Diropran Theater of Operations,

it is of paranount incortence

that recommendations for all awards, including thus ior the inester fertificate

of kerit and Unit Certificate of lerii, bo forsarded to this Section besore being

translited to the drands and Decorations 2001d for 206201

The Dircetor, Office of Strategic Serrices, has requested that al

oordirated data be forwarded by the Admtanteg Ofrice to asS destington in

order that a complete and up to das file is mintained at all times, therciore,

strict compliance with the provisions of Farsonal desorandun do Iú is requested.

Hy order of Colonel FO all:

Major, 43D,

Adjutarte

ISIEICIEP

---

## Page 14

RESIRICLER

HQ & BA DETACHLENT

OFFICE OF STRATECIC SERVICES

paropean Teater of Oceritions

United States Ar

(3AI14)

200. 6-4125

APO 413

12 June 1945

SUbJECT. sards and Decorations.

10

18 Personnel Coneeriade

Leference is made to Sectica ITI, Fersounal lenoraren dio 16, this hoad

quarters, dated 10 kay 19450

Irasaich as it is the responsibility of the Miscallaneous Section,

•Adjutant's Cifice, Orsice of Strate ie Services (Lain), APO 113, to coordinate

all Informition concoming araids ama decorations for Oifice of Strategie Services

personnel in the Dirupuaz Thoater oê Sporations, it is oi parount importnce

that recorardstiors

for all avaris, including those for the Meater Sertificate

of liarst and Unit Certificato of lerii, ba forwarded to this Section before being

transmitted to the Amaris and Decorations Bourd for action.

• 3.

The Director, Office of Strategic Services, has requested that all

coordirated data be forarded by tie Adjutantes Ofrice to 055 isrángton in

order that a completa un un-to-date file is mintuined at all tinos, thefore,

strict comliance with the provisions of Parsonnel leorardin Ho lú 1s requestedo

By order of Coloiel POrtal:

Major, 152,

Adjutart

DISTIBUTECT®

"4"9

EESALIGLED

---

## Page 15

27.120

I Decorations and citations ray be ararded orly for an out

standing act or accorplishment shich rust be sove and coyond the call

of duty and the resuirements of the job.

As a general rule, agent personel in civilian clothing

no are voluntarily ergaged in hazardous duty behind enery lines.

se considered as rossible prospective candidates for the arard of the

Distinguished Service Cross, subject to the following considerations:

(a) whether the entrance of the agent into France

securred before or after D-DAY-

(b)

The total tine that elapsed fron the Inception

at the operation to its completion.

(e) The degree of danger which the agent encountered

In fulfilling the regurements of the mission, Eage-

(1) Working in Gestapo controlled areas,

or areas rigidly held by the enery.

11) Operating in erery territory there

resistance groups were strongs as opposed

to operating in areas where there was

little or no support by the Laguis.

3.

Ilitary personnel in uniforn to are voluntarily engaged

In hazardous duty behind enemy. lines will, as a general rule,

be con

sidered as possible prospective candidates fo. the arari of the silver

Star, subjeet to the considerations as outlined in parzraph 2

L The quality of services rendered by personnel in either of

thy above categories should be carefully reviered by the branches con

cerned, with a vier to determining whether a lower of, in special Cases,

a hipher arard sould or should be reco mended on the basis of the fact

presented.. It is the considered opinion of the Board that the general

principles outlined in the abore paragraphs do not preclude a higher

award or a repeat arard for an outstanding act perforred by an individual

witle fulfilling the requirements of his mission

Reeccendations for arards to individuals nose service was

rendered during the time that they were attached to a silitary unit should

be forwarded through proper military chamels.

:6o As Indieated in paragraph I, arards: for headquarters and

staff personnel are warranted only in cases there the individualis per

formance is outstanding, and over and above what is no-ally expected

In the execution of the job, by evidencing to an unusual degree such

qualities as (a) outstanding initiative and planning ability, (b) per

severance and (e) fcresight

---

## Page 16

2=.

As a guide to prevent OSS personnel from appearing too

lenient In their recomendations for awards as compared with other

organizations in the Theater, branches should consider that the fol

lowing percentages of personnel in varlous categories are probably

worthy of consideration for sone form of recognitions

Behind the lines service

75-80%

Field Detachment personnel

10-15%

Headquarters and staff personnel

10-15%

These percentages are. not liniting or deciding factors, but

shouti serve merely as a guide.

Bo The Board expects all branches to eranine closely every

recommendation with respect to the policy as outlined aboye and in

accordance with ETOUSA orders lio. 200.6 MPGA, dated 12 June 19l,

before subrission to the Board.

Each branch mill have completed

thorough check on all the narratives of their personnel mo have been

engaged in operational missions.

If a person did services behind the

lines in civilian clothes, the narrative should so states

---

## Page 17

IESIRICZED

HEADQT ARTERS

EUROPEAN

TrEATER. OF CERATIONS

UNITED STATES ARMY

FIDE

ÁG

.200.6/1 IPGA

SUBJECT;: Award of Bronre Star Medal.

4 June 1945

TO

Conmanding Conerals:

US Strategie Alr Forces In EurnDe

Each army frouD

Communicationa Zore

Each army

IVIII Corps (Aircorne)

Urited Bingdom Base, Communieations Zone

Assembly Area Command

Berlin District

Bremen Port Command

Military Railway Service

Euroseen Division,

Aix Trarsport Command

Ground Force Reinforcement Coumand

Section Cormanders, Cormunications Zone

Commanding Officers:

Eurodean Civil Affalrg Division

Milftary Inteliigence Service

Wilitary Pipeline Service

Leadquarters. Commandant, APO 867

1, Attention 1s Invited to paragraph 152, 03, AR 600-45,

25 April 1944,

Bronze Star Medal.

which sets forth the provisions for the award of the

2. No awards of the Bronze Star liedal w1l1 be made for acts

sertices performed in this theater after & lay 1945.

3%

The provision set forth in par 2, does not prohibit making

awards' of the Bronze Star Medal ofter 6 May. 1945 for heroic acts or

services performed in this theater prior to that date.

In this

connection,: attention 19 invited to par 21, AR 600-45, 22 September

1943, as amended.

137 COMMAND OF GENERAL EISENEONER:

DISTRIBUTION: D

R. B. LOVETT,

Brigadier Gereral, USA,

Adjutant General

RESTRICTED

---

## Page 18

3. 41

DENNIN

CUTICE CI STRATHOIG SI NICKS

LIBOPRAS THEATER OY OF MATICIS

DITTY STATRE APESE

(FOR.AMD)

500: 11

SUBEEr presentasion il amunda.

PO! • CC DITOPANAT OF OUTER 120 33% IS ATI

LIPs 1O amanda i Decorations Branch

10 8804 2915

"Do the follorise posersation ol empda of dosarntions are side loy

thie orenization as follons

19 Maras 2925

Frennh Ar% Legion al 20r18, Inure of Offleure

2 490 1915

Paria

Canese Chlor PO. 1C

1/Li June Dartheleo Frened it, Brosso Ster

3/L1 piorTo voron, French anyo sponso it

Tos sho Canadias 09980051

---

## Page 19

14-00000

30 6 AX

lame

8945

hara, Donn sate

ot thin office to darlont men prostation

---

## Page 20

cd-inope

3000

Award, 4 Dec

OFFICE CE STATEGIE SINICES

MiNORIAN TZATEN LA GPELTICHS

UNITE SIA:Z9 A31

(ECREARI

APO B87

26 Karah 1945

200 в '11

starrote promatation of Avurts.

TO

to que 1old0o1ns marde tore prosensed ly thie orgmizution en satardaye

a narah 1945 €

penosal Under 10e 3

VLE Pierre Jerry, BrOnze Ste

General cries No= 32

peneral prior Nos 31

Tos the Cormanding Offlears

OCASCE I ISTIAT

Paria itect. ad.,

folder!

15?

---

## Page 21

•IC a IN DETACITET

OTTICK OF STRATEGIC SIRVICES

PROPRAN THRATILA OF UPATIONS

UNITRO STATRA Ail

(TORIARD)

Secretari:]

AwardorDeion

200.6 11

APO 807

28 kmrah 1945

Antar of Decorationa

ATTA LO AMIdA ADe Decorationa branCho

Io. Coreral Onler Jo. 31 dated 10 larek 1945 ardo the n9c so and Ilo

General order 10. 32, dated 11 Lared 1945, aurdo the ISC to and Llo Herbert

prunkar are 19t Se8 Robert R. Kahoes and auerds the logion of serit to

Lto COlo F1izauch la Chondler, nonbora of tila organisatton.

2. Inanuad no tie aboro somed offSters and enliated ien have boca

transterred to the 0 al siratadlo To salainetolo Dolo, roqueas thas Jo

sentation of there sunde ho transfered to 11at headquarters.

For the commanding officers.

CORDON 1LIVTH

In Jose CIC

Amn 6 AdJutant.

Inal' 2 - 201 It Fenquet avert

12 - 11 for 30r aard

• 9 • Jst Sgt Zlolate award

4.m and 1$ Bruster anud

12 = 198 SEt Jahoo award

call (

Para-Seet ad -1

156

Bel 1 o1?

---

## Page 22

HE & HQ DETACHVENT

OFFICE OF SIPATEGIC SERVICES

EUROFIAY THENTER OF OFERATIONS

UNITED STATES ARKY

(FCEHARD)

3200:6 A7

APO: 887

16 March 1945

SUBTIST:, Acceptanoe of Foreign Decoration®

-СС, Загореал T:01 Opas, 4P0 887," US ArI

1: 1 Inclosed herewith is photostatic copy of a citation

carrying with it the arard of the Crois de Guerre with Palm to

Ite, Col. Robert I. Powell, 0329025, GiVe

2o. Under. the provisions of par. 33, AR 600-45, as changed,

1t 18 requested that acceptance of the deocration by It Cal

Powell be authorized.

For the Commanding Officer:

Gordon I levine

GORDON 1. LEVIKE

kajor, Qu

18s1t: Adjuten

Inol.

Photostatie copy of oftation

awarding Croiz de Guerre

with Pala (in dup.)

A Powell, Robert I. (0)

Ist Ind

25 Karoh 1945

Co, Headgarterg and Headquartors Detachmant, OSS, AP0. 097

wear

Authority is hereby granted to subject officer to accept and

the decoration, as stated in basio communication.

BI COMMAND OF. GENERAI EISENHONKR:

1 Inol=

A/C

ED TRUE COPT-S Nusu

It/ A.Н.

ItoColonel,

Assistant Adjutant | General

march 4, 1945

---

## Page 23

14-00000

IR A M DETACIENT

CETICE OF STRATEZE SEINICES

BURGERAY TIZATER CRLOZZATTGNS

CHITID STATES ANT

(FATE)

100. 6; 4X

APO 807

3 AxIa 2945

¿ATTa AG Awarde ani Icamtions sunch.

Do Ceneral under no. 10, He, suropean ? of Opar, US Ary, dated d

star Fedal 10.

lastlot

38o Alchel Go Bloch, 088702% AUS, mambers Of this orga

Inasmet an the abore nined officers have Deen transferred so tha

0 af. stratoglo su, mshiagtos, Dolo, rectest Baat presensation of those

amris he transfered to that head uarter.

For the Damauding Offlears

"CORDON: I. IXYTHE

3 Dals:

mel 1 ~ 109 L8 LoReronels Anel

''''

8.

---

## Page 24

14-00000

" Awards"

ум

fi

100.• AI

attached an eedes of Colo I. 40, 19- DATODIN

the erase star Hodad to Lh. cal.

and coptala «lim le trell, and appropriate ribbons.

rament arardo be macie

so sho abovo offloure and tals bondgunsore notiflod.

2 Gods 10. 13 Bl

Code Rue do mando the parplo loopt to lat L80 Jo To. Sties and 158 1Er Se le

Secretariat,

Seales

6 copier ul dodo 40

Paris: dict.ad;

prehens

153

---

## Page 25

300.1

DA A IA UNTACHER

OFFICE CY TRATIC SCHICS

SUNOPRAN TIPATEN OY OFPRATIONS

100. 6 18

SAOTA Prodentalion of Amo.

TO

APO 689

4. A2:19.2949

la she falloning aresentation of marta ure made by thie orgalatie

i Cal sort o. to 6 0 00 10 0 sera)

Pes 5 Delphia do Bonia (0.00 260 2ur7le Hoart and onk L001 Cluster)

Too 5 Dolpato Lo Boata 1000

26, silver star)

yor the comending offleeri

secretariat (Pario)

soil

STILEY I SOLESEC

Ana& adjutant

157

Yores -sect. l

---

## Page 26

14-00000

HA & HQ DITACIAIHT

OTICE OF STATEDIC SYNICES

TUROP AN TIFATEL UP OF HATICUS

GATED PAINS ANNE

100. 6 47

APO 887

5 10012 2945

TO

munding 011100

ATTO. Illo CAlo FanDalA Baker.

Astaebod In Jetter, 14, Loditerranoen T of Cyal, US any majeet

promentation of Desaration, dated 25 taros 1945. PIJo AD 201-1-30n510110

Joseph (088) mh1ch ardo the loglon of tarle to captais lo 30ar1ell0,

0123561o tio a asbor of tils 71eld 3000.

So roquest that prosentation of this anard be ndo to Castain configllo

at th parllest rectible dato 1n socordanos sith isting rogulations und

that this headquartora Do notified Imodiately do that appropriate entries

ay he ande la captain sonfieldota parsonnel ruearda.

negon, suturs of buste lester and one (1) copy of Canal onler toe

sender of colomal. Pubdalls

tant

• 8=0e0e

• Chlation for Legion of Meril

" ItSe KrOUSA ANd 25 MAT AS

CORDOn 24 2587

100"$ Alfuten

17:.

---

## Page 27

IX A HA IUPACHIARTS

CPTICE OF TRATERIC SEATICIS

PINOPA TETATE UP OPJIATICIE

UNITSD S2AT33 Aser

20006 47

Aro 897

SUAVISTA ARTE UN DOMINA SPAN MORAL tO SIJOS DO To Tilo.

(TAB)O APO 655. 03 APO

arti Lis Colo John En Calle

lo Inclonad are cosas ol canoral ordes Do AD. lo DuropasT of opul

requass manantasion of thin

Ey arles af Colonal TorDAla

A Inalus

Tou, tho 10 (1a dup)

An•* de futens

---

## Page 28

14-00000

Awaid Tile

• PA DITACHICON

OR SAHARDGIC STATICES

I THFATEN OF OPR SATIONE

UNITED STATES AN

(PONTARD)

Hi, 6 As

SURFECTE

rosentation of art.

ATTI An Amardo and Docarations breach

she follerns manentation of avard of decertion

•ganisation an fellers.

# ANPII 1945

APo 837

node My

tali

---

## Page 29

14-00000

Presentation of Award

30006 11

(rala) (tra).

5 AP.

1945

bondenarsari, Con 20 en 2 A8r1l 1945.

2a Artached uno coples ol conral order It 29

and el the estation, roquest appropriate entrlos be ande ca sapropriata

personal repards and costen placed 1a Llo linarosa 301 8120.

8 Ina20s

Inol & « CItation for Brenno 5007 lndal

(sa triplicate)

8 00 39 488 25 Lam 45

148

RESTRIOTED

---

## Page 30

14-00000

Artie

File

200 06 4X

§ ADrIA 1945€

100

ernany sind do bold ly sate organimation.

Ono (1) cory ol Ro elsallen has bees furnthod 180 suren nal one (8)

copy alooed de blo 11 1110.

For the dunning cifieur,

CORDON MA LIVTH!

aan game 12

147

RESTRIOTED

---

## Page 31

14-00000

DEST?

NTED

I: A LIL LETACIAGSTT

OFFICE OF TUTTIC SO VICES

ETHUPPAN TENANTA CE U ATICON

(FUR MiD)

Fire.:

suitedy

..200.6. 4x

seTs senatation of Desertion

to Detectand % 217i El Huglamt (Prou

1TTs Ito Cale renesh saker.

Po B8

• AgrIS 194

¡No Altahal la lettero 1'4, 10d1 Supranons T Of OpAl, 1: Ayo mojeet,

presentation of recrations, dated 23 veiruary 1945, file 10 2loJIaranto,

Pater lo (indle shies earde Bro silves 38ar so cal Pater le laranto.

22i04339, a mater of your flold bam.

do s09088 that presentasion of thie amura be nado to cal surento as

she parlions areatioablo date in nocerdasce tità enlaling regulation not

that thin heedqarters ho ao?1fled lunadiately no that appromplate satrion

my be undo la cal Damse®s servios rosarlo.

Jo rurtsir reust return of tenle luster nad one (1) sopy el 00 33

ay ander of Colonel SCHOAXA

THEY 1, IN

Iat 16ee 0983

• Inales

Die? 1 = 00 95

a Bilver 3r toda

146

RESTENOTED

---

## Page 32

OTIS ONE RATRIC 5:10102

TOTAN MATIP OF OAR DON

WHITED STATES ATKE

3007

APO 037

25 Apr12 1045

800. 6 47

SUPSET, prosentation of Awarda

D

Attentions A0 Juards and Iccorations "Tinab

European To 0, A 087

the foll lay presentations of decorations vero made

By this organization on the dates indicated.

29 March 1945g

S/It JECQUes JOÑLUD, STORTO SERS, DOS I 18, dAted

6 Febriary 1545.

E/Lt sene Cros, Monto Star, per @ 1l,

dated & March 1945.

S/It iblert i puer, 10h80 star, 20r 00 29, dated 6 larch

1915.

S/Lt Lornard Luval, Eronse : tara per @ 29, dated & Kerch

1445.

ДP531, 1915 g

8nd It. Flirtoo Lo Hartha, ISCo DOr 10 S1, dated 20 kerat

2045.

capto OWen in ManagRa ISco per 00,18, dated 11 Inch 1045.

23. Apr83 35458

Ito codo TeTRATi do CArtOSa LiOS ILo pOr DO 85, dAçod

25 Harch 1446.

28.20517 29158

S/It tone Zoierre, Tonse Star, per 00 15, daterl

11 Februn y 1045

3/29 Andro A UntilDo, F0nze star, per 00 39, dacod

Evard tid

2015.

1, dared 30 Earch

Cario-Sect: ad! - False 1- B021

---

## Page 33

14-00000

3662581 29458

to por de 91, cated 30 Ferc 1945

i/it

15, dated i sarch 1855

i/it dean Ye auntal, to per C0 2, datod 31 arch 1645

it terrl io vergan, lao por os 49, intod 1 iar1l 1865.

3S, Der i 30, Cated & Apil 1455

do cenry mucer, Logion ai kerit, urder of lcoer

So It la roquested that the Bar lepartunt to nollelat

of the promestation of the inard of the Ligion ol ler1t, i mies

of officer, to colo lensy iseeler, ranch how, do that mao

my order my be publiahid and appropolato certificato 1a

med to corplete this award.

For tha CornadinE 3 11100rg

CORDON T LETTEE

Major,

CRiC

Auste idjutant

SEERSTARIAT (FUD)

---

## Page 34

RESTRIUTE®®

Awn and sanention

200. 6 47

Donovas en 8g AprIl 1545-

Com el co Sto Ma inditerransan 1 of ogan 1'3 Ary

and assasson are santoned ter da file.

ortseams be le

I = co 51

144

RESTRICTED

Pario-Seat-AD- 1

Bott

Jolter 7

---

## Page 35

3007

ME A IN DR'ACHEET

OPTICZ ОР ПРУТУІС СУТИСУ

INITIN THEATE CE O'LATIONE

DUTTES FATES AST

(FORGED

21181213

Tri do Marlo and locoralions granol

The follenne mard mas possated by Cr PIral IS Army to a naber el

8uda engariation, 2 mrab 2915.

Ter the commanding 0f81ee5s

Secretariat (Ind)

Ass's adjutant

14

IBE RATELY AFTER BSC

AL 12380K 30

69117

---

## Page 36

14-00000

3007

MR A IF. LITICHMT

OSTIOS OF TATOIC BEIICE

STACOCAN TICATEL GE UPSTATION

20006 4l

490 001

do irl 194

TO

Сво 590000? От орна, 290 807о сі: бо

3 amarta snu 'mortion arias

do the folderine sod perecaal, senders of sale orgaliasion, sirre

buen anarted decorations as indiented by comrad criere, your houdstartersi

Inamel an those offlee a vo beas transferred Ba fle @ ef miegle

Jua sabington, l'obo, 18 la roguented that astion to prarent thano decoratione

he transferred la that hanciuzmers.

the commanding Offleur,

• smoles

Thel 2 = co

Co

27 (lay 1a8 Lo Jo attam)

312 vor :*er Hedol

groane 38ar Lodel

• Loglon 0f. ur18

Amn®6 ad jutant

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET

(Wee Pilled lo, "

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

PASTINGS

B- ANALYST

DATE. PROCESSED

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

'ITE CAROS S0cI11

DATE OF INFO.I". EVAlATION

1D- DATE

18. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

10.

DISSEMICATED IN

DOCUMEST DISPOSITION

19. TREASFERRED TO

** ##LE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RECLASSIFIED TO 201.164865

got 725

Box to

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

PARIS.SECPAS.D

Box181

Глам

5.06.. 1

Boy

#: 88

867

SECRET

87•488

---

## Page 38

14-00000

550%

• 26

-*'=

. da

200. 6 AT

and

cata 19,

77 AD

1945

intanhad find lent shers firing infertion,

neference the above mibjeet, as rasured by inhington.

also, copies of tbe faneral unders, mi, usare possible

citatións.

in soms cene, only ens eupy it loo cenaral cader la furaizbed Deems

ut dinited maply as sale bunsguters.

8o nomont astersary entries be mate in appropriato

paolosad are copies or 00 59 and 00 77 ezardlag

Insten al 'arle to contro trevesos an: 1t, calo 15099, alro, tro (i) Legion o8

roquone prosoitation of shase anario be made anú thie office

advised of date of prussaiation.

2100, Inclosed uro lottOrS, HE ENUM datel

B Raped 19450 and CO 2TO 19, INJISo aNArdInE TOe itar so lit 'et lo do 18t0l

and lestorA lie ITOUSA, datoà 8 tarah 1945o ani CO 1o leo SCUM martias

Salvar s8ar 80 198: 51 Lo Je jatsor for c01 filoso Aotlos en those aardo dea

oen tremend to maineton through It Sura

21 tusles

2 • G0 77, HU STUCS

• Д - 45

• co 48, 1:00

67105is (Closet)

• 0o 5% 1:00

ST-USA (Couragen)

• 20810n of 13r18 indal (arateson)

GO

• LIS. lide 50:0 No 20 As 45 (Coraler)

• Go

¡No IUOTA (quadrualionto: (Coraler)

IRLe

TariA (puntrialicato) (Mantinga)

700

1:0%

¡TUViA (quairunlioato) (6988100)

citation. iNo

•TULSA (COBRIOR)

Co Me lie Iº:U1A (fundrupilsasay (Tergna)

catation, Hee

CO 72 INO ST:UJA, (Anellenio) (gant

• LES INe STOPSA, 30 ImP 15. (1M180n

(orier)

secretassat (n

---

## Page 39

9 • Go Từo Mo TitlAs (duplioato) (aroal

20

• Lagion of :aris landal (iroma)

il ses

io accisas

imparisio is tribai pitali

Ala o 1 018io sans danon entrans entro

•1 6: 1+5 122 1301

5378 (144

INOR 16

oTa: 1515304.1 26.+:6

71.9

0: 2. 23

2-37-9

nó:

"si?

i. 069

Listinain

11604

5)

"?'}

ari:

. *

vi a

---

## Page 40

14-00000

ESTRIGTED

Amanda: S000ration

100. в 1

1945 Malah anania Ese iNTo to 2a8 28. Reso do 99989

no mell ss on soc sainto

lo sill la melando re uant asrencenon. a de an o la your office do zagcal

as a cocorabion to costals sanana an

Bala office do adrined tha: pressntation

bms boon. madee

9 In0103

•Inel 1 = 00 56 (1a duplicato)

2 - LEPO BEA TUlIAO dEd DI ADT A5 (DU9098,

139

RESTRICTED

---

## Page 41

14-00000

HE A DO DITACERZAY

CUTICE GI STUTROIC DIVICES

CHITED SIATTS 1N0

(9.8340)

4P0 807

23 A811 1945

soan somniallan of maril.

: NO

89÷5s

?Jo Teo Paldarias ararda vere prometed ly shia armaisatien el virla

15 121

80, 670

sos eso consen na cesicora

GO DON NO LATINE

38

RETORN TO RECORDS. CENTT

INMEQIATELY AFTER LES

2086/-823B0X20

69112

Seorstariad (Fm

---

## Page 42

I GIDIATE

OPTICE CY STRATIE DENVILIS

HAZY TRUSIE STRATICE

BITTE STATS AMO

(I CHiRARE)

ques

20866 27

189 4872 2945

AFTs AQ Anarda and Decoratlons.

To folloving mand as prenunted by thia honterarters, 25 AJr1l 19451

Per the canading collears

CORDON MG LEVIN

n for, in

don't Man

« (Twa)

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SUBJECT OF DOCUMEST

Y'ASTINGS

SECRET

Polled la)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

COCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

DI FILE NO.

FСР.: :7a»2 e7t-1

*. DISPATCA DE SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL 10.

В. DATE

3 6

FUALUBTION

AMAL. 7 ST

BATE PROcESseD

IA- CROS$ REFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT = ISPOSITION

PERTINENT iNFORMATION

DISSEAISATES IN

TRANSFERRED TO

*I FILE NO.

BI. BATE

201-164865

80t 61-52

Boy

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FiNNERTED

70

SECRET

---

## Page 44

cd-idloor

DA A IA DETACI-

"UPTICE CI STHATICIC SAANCES

BOROKEAN TH'ATZY OY O'UTIONS

UNTTAU STATES ARNT

(JORVARD)

Islos 200.61

APO 887

de 26may 8945

SUa7OP • Premntalie of Ammrl

8 Commnding Cenaral, Paropeas P ef Opus, 09

ASTIITIGIA AE Alerda nsd Loseralions Branel

ArIy. "iPO BfT

The fallering mmurd ma presented for thin organtlidon by

Erifadier Cenara: 5e Lo MARRIJAI, AC OS Se GZ, Siat Da60d Steße

Asuy OrOap on 21 A3e1l 19451

L0$ L6. SILLIAN I. RIPLEY - SronBe Star Jedal - Genaral Order 10. 10

for the Gonmanding Offle08s

Sexehewat find)

GORDON H. LATIITS

Ma jore

assto Ad jutent

Diatribution,

soaratariat (1)

Amania & voscrations Br. (1)

Ad Jutant, iala (1)

---

## Page 45

1731.7

BQ A HQ DETACASHT

OFFICE OF STRATEDIC SORVICRS

BUNOPTAY THRATRY OF OPERATIONS

UNITED STATES ARIT

(FORFARD)

'APO 887

5wing 1945

• note of arde

-TO

Commanding Caneral, Suropenn y of Opal. US Army. APO 887

ASTATICH, AD AMedE and seeorallon tranch

Do the follerina personnol, ararded decorations as indiented

Delor, have bees, traniferred fron thla Theater to the 088100 ol

strategle sarvieel, Inalington. Do Go!

1at sate do Go Diananu

Silver Star

General Order 460

I8. Colo do To Shannon

Silver Star

General Order 460

20d 16. Bo Jo LETONdAlES

Silver Star

General Order 46l

Captala to I. forgin

silver star

Genrel Ordar fad

?o. Request that action insolar as the presentation of thoro

marla la concerned to transferred to office ol Strategio serviees,

washlagtor.

Fer the Cermending Offlear:

GORDON M. LEVIN

nia for? QMO

Anste adjutant

A Imala

silver Star Medal (A)

Dimtributies.

Bocretariat

Amarda & Docorationa

Alfor Minin

Javie-Lect-ad-r.

folder i

131

---

## Page 46

CARRIER SHEET HQ.. OSS ETOUSA

(Munt remain with nilached papers)

NUMBER EACH MEMO OR REPLY IN LEFT BORDER.

TO

FROM

DATE

SLAJECTS:

FILE NO:

pireet.

058g

arrice,

oss,

(ain)

Mise

Section, Hay

Adj 0,

2945

089 ,ET0

DRAW LINE UNDER EACH.

Amards and Decorations

201-F ersonnel Concerned

For your information and appropriate disposit

USE ENTIRE WIDTH OF PAPER.

CENHETH I. KAFLSOF

lot It, CAC,

4 Inela:

Asst Adjutant.

Inal 1 - True ax copy

Inal

2

GO

37,

GO

45,

28 Feb 45,

DESPATCHED

7

MAY 1945

SS.

Inel 3

• True ex copy

- True ex copy

GO

Inal d, « Trus an copy

7h,

25 Mas 45,

21

GO

72,

• Арт 45,

Hq, ErOUSA

CoL. GAMBLE

22 Apr 45, Ha, EsUüSe

CoL. FORGAN

LT. CaL. CARTER

DEve

Зай

03S Form N- 1

(a Men 4)

133

PAGE No

LIFT HERE

USE OTHER SIDE.

Лест

MAY 14 PA.

---

## Page 47

14-00000

CICE SO FRITONIC 5414

ITED STATES dET

(FOR SARD)

200. 6 18

AFC 807

215051945

9m730Ts Retura ef Ararda

70

• Camaaling Generad, Suropean ? el OrMO, NoSo ArMy, A70 387

Attas 10 Arardo and sucorations Branoh

• lo The following personade uarded desoration sa indiented

bolor, have does transferred from thie tester to the offleo of 3traragta

sorrient, washington, DoCes

Franze Stai

Deniral order 7

M/sal, Robart Ro Baird

Bronse star

eneral order 6

2o h0çuent that notion insolar as the mantation of these

marda la concernal be transferred to the offlee of strategio survicon.

manhiaston, D. Co

. Pes the Cacmending OPPleUT!

CORDON MI. LEVINE

Ashto Al Jußent

1. Inalo

Bronne star indal (2)

---

## Page 48

14-00000

ER & HE ERTAGATEST

BAOZZA TIRATE OF 0:31a8108S

(FOiTIALD)

APO 887

20 many 1945

3037

atation of awarde

Commanding Caneral, European 1 of 0203, 19 Arag, a7o COl

18tar

1O Amaria and incorations sranel

20 And 1945:

a falloulas amaria vare prosented by dals argantmalen

Ito die

Captan

?. Erell

THOR:

Bronze Star

aroam Star

general cndac 40

Ceneral C.der 40

For the Co

manding offlour

• GORDON M. LIVIAS

Major, EAC

gasto dal fusant

Pariändict-ed,

Bry folders

---

## Page 49

ifus

300

CETICE CY BILAT-DIC 3317IC13

NUROPEAN TATANTI CY GIANTONS

WHITED STATE: ANAT

(FONTAROY

10006 Ax

APO 60T

12 May 1945

SUBTOTA frasentation of amerda.

Cumanding Cesaral, suropean 1 of OMi. US dry, ANO 308

Attaa

NO Awards end resoratione Brunel

she dates iadloateis

The following inads were irenented by this erganization on

Ha for Joott lo Emble

Colant allllen Ge Jheksen

ENone Sta

Золка 360л

Major lie sury

April 2945

22 buy 2945

Foa

she Carpandiag offiner.

Paria Act, ad-1

Bays folder

CONDON NO LIVENE

ABobo Adjutant

Foes huge e 201-7855

Jerke

130

---

## Page 50

EESTRICIE2

HQ & H2 DETACHVENT

ropean Theater of Orerations

United States Arzy

(KAIN)

NO SNEE

1 March 1945

200.6/7-4115

SUBJECT: Battle Participation Awards.

TO

* Personnel Concerned.

In accordance with authority contained in letter, Hg, European T O,

US Army, file AG 200.6 OpGh, subject,

"Battle Participation Awards - Normandy

Cempaign (No 3)", dated 2 February 1945, tine award of battle participation credit

for the Normandy Campaign to the following individuals of the 54th scI Unit, who

served with Hq, 12th US Army Group during the period for which battle participation

bredit is authorized, is announced:

Maj THOMAS B. LEE

* MaJ CHANTS N. HOSTLER

Ind It RAYHOND G. TIBAULT

S Sgt Robert Forrest

Sgt Albert Gouin

Sgt Daniel Gilbert

Cpl Glenn C. Good

Tec 5 Floyd D. Berry

Pfc Doyle E. Dickson

Pfc John R. Rogers

0904351

044462428

020L4616

10600106

6147.784

32892049

33499908

13126449

39295728

13177273

AC

AC

Int

By order of Colonel FORGAN:

Major, 4CD,

Adjutant.

DISTRISETTON:

1

RESIAIGIED

ie. P.38

in 3

10

---

## Page 51

RESIBICTED

HQ & FQ DEZACHMENT

cas fare

OrEL'E OF STRATEGIC SELVICES

European Theater of Cperations

United States Army

(Vius)

200. 6/B-AMS

APO 413

1 March 1945l

SUBJECT: Battle Participation Awards.

* Personnel Concerned.

In accordance with authority. contained in letter, Ha, Duropean T O,

US ATy; file AG 200.6 OpGa, subject,

*Battle Participation hards - Normandy

Campaign (No 3)" cated 2 Februnry 1945, line award of battle participation credit

for tito Normandy Campaign to the folloring individuals of the 31st SCI Unit, who

served with Ha, 12th US Army Group during the period for which battle participation

credit is authorized, is announced:

MAj DANA B. DURAND

0923523

Ist It

STUYVESANT MAEMRIGHT, II C1533699

2nd It CHALES C. MCFAELIS

AUS.

Int

01596734

S Sgt Jack R. Trees

18073684

S Sgt Robert W. Marsh

13186684

Sgt Joseph F. Comerford

11099212

Set Alexander P. Schralz

17053749

Cpl Melvin S. Brooks

39467249

Cpl George C. Thornton

326/2401

Cpl Charles J. Collins, Jr

35174765

• By order of Colonel PORGAN:

мл:

GEO H:

AND RESIS,

MaJOr, AGD.

adjutant.

DISTRIFUTION: "B", "D" & при

- 2

S1R2E2

ww.P. -38

10 5!

---

## Page 52

14-00000

' SECREU

ACLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

• INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" colann. Under each comment a line shraid be drawn acreis sheet

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column.

Each officer should inisial icheck mark insufficient)

belore furter ra-rting.

This Routing and Record Sheet should be reurned to Rezises-

HQ.

FROM:

DATE

BATE

OFFICI

FILALS

CONNENTS

TO

NO

iP. Ryon

z.

EE/A

June Willinnis

2313-K

5.

"T.

RECT

PLEASE INITIAL AFTER REVIENING

10k

RETURN TO

RI/ARCHIVES

112

RES

PREVIOUS EDITION

H0Y1 51-10 MAY ME USE

SECRET

RETURN TO LEECREC CENTER

1096/ S23 POX 70

69112

ris no. Paria dict ad-l

DOCUMENT: 12.1

FOLDER:-

PAGE:

BOX:.

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

(40)

---

## Page 53

BESILICIES

HQ 1 FA ISTACHET

european meater of Operations fee

United Stites Army

(in IDi)

.200.6/20-115

APO 413

1 March 1945

SUBJECT: Battle Particigation hards.

T0. $ Fersonnel Concerned.

In accordance with authority contained in letter, Fa, European I 0,

US Army, file it 200.6 Opiá, subject, "Battle Farticipation nerd - Horthern

Prance Carpalen (No 1)", dated 1 Deserter 1744, the award of cattle participation

credit for the Northern France Camaizn to ine following individuals of the OSS,

SI Field Dotachment, Ist air, mo served with Ha, Ist US iry airing the, period

for which battle participation credit is authorized, is annunced:

It COl KENETH I. DOMiS

Haj TAFFORD F. ROTS

0903121

04,02662

Inf

. 0925583

Capt LilaN B. KIEKFATEICK

2925477

Ist It CLOVIS R. GifiCa

01551406

Ist It HARd E. US MI, 35

01325573

It (JS) FENT Z. BETH!

252231

031017

Inf

USIR

UNCE

T Szt Iouis E. Sobichaud

201204,60

Tigt Jean B. Herthetter

35526155

§ Sgt Joseph I, Strestor

32572709

Set Peter N. noIronsky

33448976

Sgt Victor E. Firec

11668192

31039207

Tec 4 Ralch R. Kessler

321,21,576

Cal ilha B. Nortin

33454024

Cpl Paul L. Crosby

39211368

Tec 5 Thoms H. Farrow

33638313

Tee 5 John C. Dillont

32943342

FIc David NY. Doyle

10601712

paria-duct.

ad

Ball

Goldbel

By order of Colonel FOiGil:

DISTRIBUTION:

BESTRICTED

020 H. ass,

13 105, dd,

adjutant.

w.P. 38

10 58

---

## Page 54

TESTICLE

He l sa Delacron

Duropean Treater of Operations oss fa

United States i

(JAIN)

4PO 120 PEF

1 March 2945

200.6/9-415

SUBJECT: Battle Pa-ticipation Awards

ID

• Personne? Concerned.

In acerrdance with authority contained in letter, Hq, European TO,

IS Arty, file bi 200.6 Upin, subject, "Battle Particination arra - Normandy

Campaign (ilo I'" deted 15 lovember 19h4, the arard of battle participation credit

for the Nornandy Campaign to the follering individials of the OSS, SI Field Detach

sent, Ist hry, tho served with liq, Iat US hary during the period for wich battle

participation credit is authorized, is arnounced:

It Col KENETH T. DOTNS

Maj IRAFFORD P. KLOTS

MAJ SOBERT LIESIT

Capt LYINt B. KIMPARaCE

Ist It CLOVIS 3. GACkOl!

Ist It HARRY E. RUSSELL, Jr

Lt (38) HEIFY F. KORAH

2nd It JCE i.

T Sgt Louis E. Robichaud

T Sgt Jean B. Mertzeimer

S Sgt Joseph I. Sweeney

Sgt Peter M. holkonsky

Sgt Victor E. Kircuss

Tee & Louis J. Tenthopoulas

Ice 4 Falph R. Kessler

Cpl Albe Be lartin

Gpl Faul I Crosby

Tec 5 Thomas H. Farrow

Tee 5 John C. Dullont

Pf: David W. Doyle

0903121

0408682

Int

0925583.

0925471

01551406

01325673

252231

031017

AUS

Ord

Inf

USUR

VICE

20120460

35526156

32572709

33448976

11000₴92

31039207-

32124276

33454004

39211368

33638313

32943342

10601712

Ey order of Colonel FORGial:

This.

G2C H. ANDianS,

Major, AGD,

Adjutant-

DISTRIBUTION:.

BESITICIED

H43 3

: 19

---

## Page 55

OUCRE

15 PUIETY-S

ZUROPEAN DENIER CY CATIOS

TITO SITES ART

shuth:

wuropean:

T of Spos

Initials: 6)i

•Date: 22 April 1745:

39:::::

CHC/LES/ jh

AP0 897

22 April 1945

AG 200.6 OpGA

SUBJECT:

Eattle Participation Anaris - Caopaign "jir Offensive, Burope".

103

Comending General; US Stratagic hir ferees in zurope.

Comsending General, European Division, hir Iransport Conmand.

1. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 21 b. (2), AR 262-10,

25 Cetober 19h, announcesunt is made of units a arsed sattle credit for

, as established by para

..af teas

1745-

5th Photo Gp, Pch, Fifteenth his Force

9th icco Jir (formerly ia/Hq jr,, In Bomber Cora)

15th dose Sa (L) (Sep) (Inactivated)

106th Anf Base Enit

1409th haF 3asa Unit

Attention is invit-d to paragraph 72, Sestion I, Circular 195, War

Departnant, 18 jay 1944 r:gerding eligibility of injividuals to wear a bronze

service star on the theater ricoon.

3.

In cotolience kith paragraph 6, Circular Em,

car Department, 1l

February 1944, and letter, this head-uarters, AG ZD.6 OpGs, subjact:

"Indiridh

als Entitled to Bettla Participatior Sredit", 30 Dacamber 1944, necessar

entries will de sade in sarvica records (D AGO Fera lio. 24) of enlisted parson-

nel, and on qualification cards (D A30 Form io to 1) of officers and varrent

officers, nhose eligibility to sear a bronze servise star cn the theater ribbon

is established.

BY COLZIND OF GENERAL BISSHOT 2:

Ristmet 1-

R. 3. LOVETT,

Brigadior Ganaral, USi

Adjutant Gineral.

DISTRIGUTIO:: D plus

LAG, 14sh 23, DoCo.

(3)

COg XTOUSA

5)

Suprame Conir, hEF

(

. 2)

Ea Corps & Div

(2)

CO each unit concerned(b)

Codi (Jup Div,

Clothing dr) (2)

---

## Page 56

3

•DEPUTY OFFICER PARIS OS

RESIRICTED

72z B

• ESTACKET

OFFICE CP STATEMe SETICES

Buropean Inater of Carations

irated States bry

(PAIN)

200, €=$819

AFO 413

23 saril 1945

STST: Cattle Farticipation Avaris.

8 Pengal Conce-red.

Jo it, Iris yo fated 1 Marca 1245, fIle 200.6/9-4115, subject as above, 1s

Is mended to read

037017

US!Ch

2. Ltr, this la, dated 1 Marct 1945, File 200.6/10-/115, subject as above,

18 amended as follows:

So weh as reads

Is amended to road

031017 TS 2nd It JON T. ICHTIEL

C31017 USACT

1s amended es follors:

Itr, this Hq, dated 14 Barch 1945, file 200.t/A-il5, subject as abovo,

Add the folloning

Captain Be CARe A. KHITE

I-903323

Ist It ALSZIT I. LONE

01053 705

Ist Set Annie G. Comer

4406003

T Sgt Virgirie J. Kuch

*22012

T Sgt Sara Xi. Lorris

4-4,08550

•S.5gt Hildred . Yontgonery

4310952

S Sgt lary L. Jyzan

4116129

Sgt Iotha I. Foid

Ả-811059

RAC

CAC

MAC

HAC

HoC

he C

HAC

by order of Colonel FORcil:

GEC H.

Hajor, ind,

Adjutant.

DISTETCUTION:

124

BESIBILLED

---

## Page 57

MEEIRISIED

300.7

CIFICE CE STATIC SENTERS DEPUTY OFFICER PARIS OSS

European Thester of Operations

United States A.

1F0 413

24, april 1345

• 200.6/16-123

SUBJECT: Bettle Participation hards.

° Persenzel Concerned»

In accordance irith the provisions of far 12b (2), an 260-10, 613,.

1 Lorerber 1943, and lettes, Fedquarters, Euroreau Iseater of Ceratioa, l'S aray,

file he 366 Opin, dated ? Cooter i9i4, tre folioring nares incidduaas sao

served under ecretent orders in cubit zones, during the perioes i campuilas

specified in ir Departuer: vareral Orders, are hereby awarded bastle credit for

participation in the caraigs incicated after their respective rames:

(eatne Ist Iz, E2, DICti, Ele Al 20600 GI, Sutjeet: "Jutie ranicipation Gredit

did 22 Boresber 194460)

RAME CR

GIAFE

Cci

tOL

Col

Cod

ASH

B.i0s

FO GAN

FALTUSE. SELIN

LATE 7. 1020

PALL HEICH

SIPIZI C. LILETT

JCHH H. BOH

090.014

0473090

0509325

C45Liç4o

0323553

0211634

C4 2(20

0386675

Cilea10

Capt

Gant

Capt

Capt

Capt

Capt

Ist It

1s: 1t

Ist It

1st 1t

that it

1stIt

2nd Lt

*I Set

meccre Brunsola

I SEt

James do Carpenter

1st Set

Jacob B. B erlin

sgt

Ist

Sgt

Francis J. Cole

Set

Fichard C. Floyd

Berest En Friela!

15E

Set luciea S. Lajeuresse

lat Sgt Donald i. Spears

0506589

APARTE S. BATES

BOSTON ICD. AUSTTE

PILED I. BRIMOTHY

Mia to MICH

JCSBFH F. GICIA

HORE-T P. Kalong

CITIT

0489931

0417365

01339354

0524,046

0454221

01d18212

01647351

0460414

01322769

die atrad

3A CHH G313

01 64 8257

01647035

0e:6331

32967117

15121222

12141181

11103990

32868298

12145641

21019052

33831340

BESIEICIET

Paris - Sect-AD-1

1. 11 OF

SPICE

KOATHE A

NORE 3!

MM

111919

DESPATCHED

25.909.1985

O.

93

-#|-

R

---

## Page 58

14-00000

16 & HE DETACHDA

OFFiCE Or SEATEGIC

S318272S

Duropean Thester of Opé:

Uniteu States

20006/15-49'5

Le

0 374,5

SULUECT: Lattle 2

S

TO

& Personael Concerned.

Io In accodence wits authority consined in lebber, He, airopcan T 0,

US AiT, file AG 20006 Opig Ji ret,

"ebtle Furtici acion Award - forthern Prance

baign (le 2)", cauca 31 Jan 17g ti

tire Lorthorn France Campaian in the icasing incivicuis of the 2271

anari on batila carticipation credit for

to served with wa, 12th us at Croug

seT Unit

ostion crodit is authorised, is arno

-win: the period for wiict

settle rartici-

Lay JODI B. Likes.

Capt CaDifE Lo iDlE

Ist LE FAYES hoCo

Capt TILlS E. Lone:

ZIG It MILLIAl: 3-

I 31:3

0126, 473 Inf Sa

02h62 Int

C1

+02

diS

SC

AUS

337:0429

13112156

34335121

S Sgt jathan Plung

Sist Iouis 1. Cartinate

•710232

52079565

aLke

osval

354;0681

Fve

3:253850

334C: 309

2. In accordance with:

US Are, file is 200.5 OstA,

thority sonaired in leitor, Ha, Emopein I O,

Campaign (No ?),

"Sattle Partici,-fion hward - Horthern France

dated 31 Jar 2945, the arari of battle particination erodit ¿cr

the forthern France Camzion to the following indivitusls of the sist scI Unit

who served with He, 12th US Amy Group during the perica for which battle partici-

patios credit is authorized, is announced:

TrAj DATA B. DURAD

Capt SIVESAIT LAWRIGHT, II

0923523 LUS

Sgt Joser: F. Comerford

01533699 Irf Sit Alexiner Pe Schalz

110992:2

Tress

01596734 So Cod Meliss sa Srooka

17053749

§ Sst Zobert il. Larsh

12013048

39407249

Und Lecree 6.

13186654

32072401

L23 do Col5r3, Jr

35174765

In accordance with autority cortained in lettor, Ha, Euroreen T0,

US ArT, file G 20006 OsCa, subject, "Battle Furticipation Award - Norther France

Camcatzn (No 2)" datud 31 Jen 1915, tho arra of vattle pertici asion credai for

the jo:ther France Campain to the folloing individuzis of the 54h SCI Urit tho

served with lia, 12th US arm Group during ice period fur will bathie partletion

crodit is authorized, is annoliced:

BE CARIS NO NEE

4C Sit Doniol albert

2nd It MOND G. TRAULA

Cpt Cluna he Cood

§ Set Fobert Forrest

03014616 Inf Tee 5 Floye De Borry.

Sut Albert Gouin

#1126222786

10600106

Pfe ForteEn Dickson

-1- Felich to beers ,

32692049

33499908

1423,49

3929-728

13177373

---

## Page 59

RESIRI.IE2

In acoordance with authority containid in letter, Ha, Auropean TO,

US Army, file it 200.6 Osch, subject, "Lattle Faricipation inard - lorthery

France Carpaign (No 2)", dated 31 Jan 1945, the anard of batlo participation

credit for tre Northern france Craign to the iciloring individuals of the

OSS/SCI Deteciment, Paris n'" Foreu, who serveu with Ha, Lei. Us brug broug

luring the zariod for maich battle participation credit is authorized, is anscunced:

Maj MAXIELL J. PAPURT

Ist It FOB-ET C.G. COL TAT

0298501

Inf Fle Philip I. Hershkovitz

35289036

01791253 CUP

Prt Alexandre Foulet

33062928

010388 AGD Put Levia Go beaver

37357060

Sg tart lo resert

Tec 4 Pracy Jaectel

Ter 5 Willian Hi. Gunn

Col Richard !. Clark, Jr

38312816

• Fve Limard C. Schmidt

36626945

32791218

Fut inviro Lo Villere

3E494317

36954279

Pot Kiliian Fo juffran

16123691

36755624

By order of Colonel FOEGAN:

CHO

Major,

ACD,

•diutant.

DISTRIBUTICT:

"B",

ipa & при

• 2

BESIBICIEP

---

## Page 60

14-00000

BAHA INU

IMITED STATES ANAT

(PUR HARE)

200.6 A.

SUBJECTs presentation of Amanda.

APO 887

5 June 194

ATTA AD AmINa and Decorations spanah

The Sollong pronontation of aurda of decorationa vro mede by tale

ergnisation as follom

28 13т.2915

JoE Ilo io do DuREAdo ISGO GO 560

3 June 2945

3/2t Bo

3o caras de lodies sPOnse MEat, O 25-

Cembose Bronze 5%are Co 29.

calllo sIlver ar, Co 46.

mad, Sara, tha to dio

Re

cranger, river sa:, CO 46.

Ae

Co

Boured, Silver Stu, CO 4ãe

Duensee, ISCO 00 490

Go

coulder, sliver thar,

nate, the share do go.

SLE Re

mitser, 150, 00 83.

It No myet, DiC. 00 85..

Jat Ito Jo Lobaigue, i3C GO 07.

sanfor no Ro Dodderlagh, Theater Commi

Jup the coumaling Off 1008.

on Certifiento of terile

GORDON MO ITUTIN

п Jose Q

100a8.

---

## Page 61

o.i.

3006

5007

12 *

: HQ DETACHE ST

Office of Stratagio Services

furopean Theatel of Operations

United States Aray

APO 887

81 May 1945

808J8CT&

Amerlean Awards to British and French Officers.

TOS

colonel Do Ke B. Bruce

Oss, Washington, D. C.

The attached nenoranda from Colonel Jackson and

Colonel Van der Stricht are forwarded fos your attontion

and any aotion you may care to taxe.

In my opinion Van der

Stricht has taken a sonewhat exaggerated view of the

Importance of the matter, end in certain cases a do not

agree with his reasoning, This 1s

particularly true in

connection with his desire to keep british and French decora

tions entirely on the same level.

2.

Also he fails

to sive any

considerat..on to the

problen

Involved In awards to the sritish where we mist

think In terms of both 30E and SI3.

dowever, the prostem

a one which needs careful consideration and I feel It would

be very helpful If you could give me your ldeas on the matter

and also arranze to have watever action is necessary taken

with tho Har Dopartment in Manington®

JAMES R.

FORGAN,

Colonel, G3C.

JEF: fan

Inola-keno to Bruce fr Jackson

above dubj, 29 May 45.

leno Jackson Ir Van der Stricht,

28 May, above mubj.

110 Paris-lice ad.,

CO

did isoned

But i folded.

---

## Page 62

14-00000

¿8 kay 1945

SUBSCI& Amerioan irde tO itish and Krench offleers.

TO

Copy tos

Lt. de louse ce jalao.

Heference our conversation of 21 lay concerning an

rican nerda to oertein rench an Arliish ofileers

Althouch the determination of the degree of Legion

of serit to be conferred upon foreten utiloer la a matter

norsally decided upon by 0-l, there can be no douut shit el

mould take 10t10e of any recommenuations or ruggestione whic

might be presented in conneotion thereulth.

3. Althou h our sovernment is uncoubtadly free to srant

1ta orn decorctiona as 1: pleases, there 1s a precedence, im

the case of decorations for. foreten officer, rhich t 1a ad

VIsable to observe and which taice: into nocount both the e

keneficiaries.

In the case at hand, there 18 flat of all s precedence

an betseen the offleers of one and the same natlonality, and

soonaly a precedence as betueen the officers of both nation

11t1es, Inasuch as all offloore are belne propond for a0t1v

ties carrled out by the same in

Faeedonoe no betreen trenche

Informed me vorbally. that sioula recumondations for erican

decorations be unde for certoln nembers of tho resistanoe hier

archy, the National delegate (General Lab'n-selmas) abould

reoolved a bisher aword than the Ma's who wre serving under

Ihis la based on the lunctlone of those offioers, and

bears no relation to their rank in the irmy (esther rajular

Im addition one shouls seep in mind the decoration

(orficer-Lorion of orit) already anarded to sener 1 -lerier®

In vien of the foot tant Ganer'l legler had a four year record

In keslatance ond

that he boome Chief of -taff of Ed ll Ip

1% rould seen that Chaben.. elman sho

was Istional elugate for

 very short tine

shouda not eet a higher anord thai tho

ono already alven to loner. blogler.

---

## Page 63

14-00000

%

In conclusion, 1t, ould sees that the ofilcer's

degree rouid be the a propriate mina for conaras ubab.n

colmas.

.. a result, the milo, liated lo pare da balon.

should De proposed sor the degree of leilouraire.

as the tre:.n secard the siclon of lerit very

hichly and conalder 1t as a decoration Lillar to thei

onn bosion of conor, anu the dogiee jI losionalse as ayul-

valent to the degree of che der, thes soula proonaly be

trently surpriod, on she basis of betr ou obamards, 18

the Dir' a were cranted anything above be licion alrea

degree.

Precedence as betfeel Brital, even BalLlah offI

counting dr viaries inmbro uno, as a civilian, 1a being re-

comended for the reial of corit). Us bese seven, tro,

(Genoral Cubbine and irigatier rooker arrynan) abould Got

the officer' a degres, and live aboulu ce nade legionsalred.

Ible would correspond alco to the ranso ziven by she kreuch

to certaln of the si

eriulah offibera for nork done lor, a po

nod thlob, 1t moulc be noted, exoceda the one of the anglo

merloin association. Loth beneral Cuboins and Bricadier

whereas Colonel Lucknaster nas nade a chevalier.

Beem to ba in our orn Interest to take tais inio consideration

no the granting of mericon anarus to the Britieh orfibera,

In a lit her degree than the one arried by the Frerch, in

conneotion with the same work and for a shorter pertod

of ser

vice, would in fact result in cebasing the Legion of erit via

a vis the loglon of conor.

10.

recedence as between French ani

the

British

The grant

critist of the

Legion of corst in a degree exceeding

the one recomended for the

trench rould be, aiplomatioally

speaking, a "Inux pas".

If one considers the ..estatance notl

vities from a very broad point of view, the french sere, in the

last instance, the people who bore the brunt of the wiole ieal

tanse show, who furnished the men and suffered the casultles

1a the l0a of thoudanda by usportatto, or otherine.

the BrIn

tish ans mericans, cespise tha laolated eases of frest haron

1an of sone agonte and the air force lo3sa4, ln the Last analy

ile servleed crench eslathod. Unuer the

c1rcunstanoeв 11

moult beca appropriate that the britisa aboula reselve fron u

decorationa exceeiing in importance those divan by un to tha

Frenche

---

## Page 64

14-00000

11o

in conolusion st mould acem that the legion of erit

nhich has been reconenood for the rdtiah ani irench officer

mentloned below abould, 11 approvud, be cranted in the degrees

Indioated:

01t120г

Ironed

& General aben-Dalmas

Cone: al ¿lecter (uranted)

Br 12383

0ff10er

s0eneral tubbine

Erlandier hooke

testonnairescoledIYuns

cale

master

cole: troo

Colode soland ear

daunoury"

Coloreone.

bohede ?fe"

Lt. Col-¿ierre saneton*

LololoFaul Lelaten thredden"

Lt. Cal. raul minusson dares®

Col-dents ¿eller"*

Atocol bienri resto

I understand from our converation thut you propoas

to for ard thia tenoraniun to colonel aruse with a request that

he take she matter up with Gl of the ar Departuent.

I wiink

your micestion 1a excellent and an attaching for the purpose

two additionad copies.

n

hto colonel, dus

an them offloers noried under the comand of the la

Monal jelocate and ila in, they should be cranted le

anord in 62e

de

of Lostoannare only

---

## Page 65

¿B May 1945

APO 839

JUBJECTS Amerioan indu to Eritinh and Irench Offleers.

TO

Colonel "-Jackson.

Copy tos

Ito de romasy do ales.

reference our conversation of 21 hay concerning Am

mon awards to certain srench and Britiah ofilcera

8.

Although the determination of the degree of legion

of herit to be conferred upon foreign officers la a matter

normally decided upon by Gl, there can be no doubt shit

would take iodide of any recommendations or ruggestions whic

might be presented in conneotion thereuith.

Althouch our coverament ia unuoubiedly free to grant

Its orn decorations as it pleased, there is a precedence,

the case of decorations for forelen officers, nhich 1r is ad

visable to oberve ang which dares into account both the ane

rican rules and regulations, and those of the country of the

In the case st hand, there 1a first of all a precedence

an between the officers of one and the sass nationality,

secondly a precedence as between the offleers of both natiom

lities,

inamusin as sil offivers se being propond for astivi

tien carried out by the same He

Б.

Fordence ao betreen jreno.

The slalatry of var

Informed me

verbally that scould reconcendations for inerican

decorations be made for certaln members of the Reslatance hier

archy

the kational jelegate (veneral Chaben-salman) abould

recoived a righer nuurd than the ma's who were serving under

ihia la based on the junctions of those offleers,.

Dears no relation to their rant in the army loither regular

In adoltion one shoul seep ln mind the deviration

(offloer leston of erlt) already ararded to bener: 1 «106L0r

Im rew of the faot 1at

General clegler had a four year record

In Realotanen and thrt he booame Chief of -taff of Ei.I.F.I,

1% would spen that Chabar--elma who ned Kitional alesate

for

• very ahure time only, shoula nos 30t a higher amend thai

one already oven to ceneru: 1egler.

---

## Page 66

14-00000

%

In conclusior, it rould rec thet the clilcerg

degree rouid be the a proprinte anerd for denial babun

delmed.

as a rosult, the sin'a, listed in pare ll below.

shoul. to tropead for the legree of 1e100-a1e.

8o

in the trerit regard the beelch ci lert very

hizaly one cursidor 1t as a decoreston alailcr to shelt

on Lebion li souor, and she degice it leodoncalre

as ocul

valent to the degree of chetuder.

bady mode us coadly be

treatly sur poised,

the Infe neie irontad anything above

degrate

8.

eszdeace PC 0e08323

cer a of is har

• counting fr caries labro sia, as a citills, 15 dalng re

(General

Jubaine and ilgaules sockor-jersyaan) saould Get

the officer's degroe,

and 1175 sullu as

eih is st

des sulalrea

This poule correspond slso to fi

radis jiran by bad ireuch

to certala of tita:

altlsi ofitcars tui soro doas fur a pe

rod mich, lt soul- Do noted, sacceds the one 6a tas hobo

imerlean association.

Loth

janeral sabilas and irigadler

whersas Colonel Luckmttor mas naug s cosTaller.

seem to be in our on Interest io tre lais 1a:o consideration

as tho grantina of serican anards to the grillas dificers,

1n e hi her degree than the one anuried by the licuche lu

connection with tho same work enu foi a sacrier perlod of ser

the legion of Sonor.

10г

the crant

1mg

to the raisis

the ons recorended for the tranch could so, alplonatioally

peaking. &

"Saux раз".

If one consiuars ino chi: ande actl

vities

fross vory broad point at yet,

last 1n8t5800,

the people ide bore the

tance shou, uho furnishad thu ain sad suitored ine sasualtles

In the los of thodada by unportablo. or otherise.

The Erl-

Bíah and onerloans, cespite he lolnied caare of broat haro

1a of sone agenta and bus ads sorod dunded, la bie last analy

e:1a63200₽

nuor the caronasta mes 1t

Toad a a propra a de bride about receive ira no

decerationa exceeding in impartence tone sitan by in tO 18e

French,

---

## Page 67

11.

nhich has

Indicated:

General Cabar-balma

one al deser (ranted

Inglonmire: Gol. lauriee hourges

daunoury®

col ingene secheleste

Col bareel sescoura®

Lterol sierre haneton*

Col Ives-Fleach OlLenuor!®

LtocoloFaul Loisian-Phselder®

Lt Colelaul dabusson hero

Colotenta ¿eller**

E1388

sCeneral subbin

Brigadier dock-

Leglonnalrescol.J.I.Iomg

Gone da

master

Col i Rolandson

I understend fron our conversation that you propose

to for. ard this senorancum so Colonel üruce with a requeat trat

he take the matter up with ind of the far Lepartment.

'I chlai

Jeer merestion 1a excellent and en attaching for the purpom

two additional copies.

dio Colonel, dis

DUR® &

---

## Page 68

CARRIER SHEET HO. OSS ETOUSI

WURBER EACH MEMO OR REPLY IN LE! & BORDER.

DRAW LINE UNDER RACH. • USE ENTIRE WITH OS

SUBJECTS Anards and Decorationa

TO

FROM

DATE

FILE NO:

201-Perronnal Concerned

161 me

Sectiong

Adj 0,

OSS, BFO

APO

4l3

15

Hiny

1945

for your salorsation and appropolata disposition

3007

rations

Board,

ces

(Pad)

8

SPEL AYA

Aeat Adjutant.

5 Incle:

Inel 1 - True copy Citation for Bronze Star Medal - Capt Grall

Incl

2=1

Irco copy Citation for Bronze Star Medal - Col 'Inbury

Inel

•3- Frue ex copy GO 9, Ha, That Brae Hospitel, 17 Mar 45

Ined i - Irue copy itr awarding Bronze Star ledal to Oul McAle®,

Ba 3od lat Dit, 16 sor he

pel 5 - True eopy Certif Merit, 88t her, due 21 Apri

OSS Ferm Ma 1

(1 Nar-46)

109

PAGE NO.

uFT HERE.

Folder 360%

USE OTHER SIDE

darin-Sict-Gidm-1

651x1572

---

## Page 69

14-00000

•LESILICIED

CILATICH FO. BOILS SIA! DAI

Captain Milliam P. Grell (dry Serial No 017860), United States darne Doer

Reserve, for meritoricus se.Vice in connoction with military operaticas, as Opera-

tions Oricer in charre of a grous of Americar. Secret Agents, from 22 September

1943 to 1 Novenber 19io Captain Grell was responsible for the bricing and

dispatching of American

agents we were being parachuted into France, with the

purpose of directing

their actirities in the conduct of sabotage and other under

grvund activities, ard in the orgarization, supply and traning of resistance forces.

His contimous efforts in mirtaining contact vith his agents, and i= providing thes

plin supplies and equipment coributed greatly to the success of tre resistance

forces in their support of the invasion of the continent by the allied Expeditiona y

Forces and the subsequent liberation of France. Entered military service from

Connectiait:

DEFICIAL SEAL

:Hgo Fartgoat Theater se

Oparations, US Aruy.

CERTIFIED A TRUE DOFY:

2006T.F30-1)200

Kitter T. Kid 50%,

Ist It, CAC.

Bronze Sta- leial was Meaded to Capt Grell per GO las, Fir, Til ali 7;

20 larch 4.45.

ЛЕЛІНТЕЗЕР

đung

---

## Page 70

14-00000

•RESTRICLAD

NOT: FOR BRONZE SY kE

Liestenant Coional Gubelt Le Inbury (airy Serial No 1233745), Field Artillery

United Sates Army,

for meriteraces servire in connection with militory perations

Iron 10 Movember 1943 to lE Scatezber 1944.

Lieuterant Colunel Bury surv.d

as Supply Planning Afiice: enc Saial, Supply Section,

Special Verations Brancia,

Darte equates Serpen eater teration e

Supely Sect=s7, Special

Cälled upon to organize ard

naintain a system sf supply to zimon numbers of resistance forges ir. enemy

occupies territo.y, by his keen imagination, foresight, ard solenis judgment, he

accomplished this difficult ast with distisction

Ine successiu achiatement of

this wors rade possibls

the uring and equipping of ticusands •i sistance forces

whose contribution played such ir inportant part ir tre succesciul invast: of

France by allied forces.

inton military service fr. fiscow in.

OFFICISI STAY,

Ha, Earopean ? uf Oçns,

US Arag

STark win

Ist Is,

CAC,

NOTE:

Bronze Ster ledal a mili to Col inhury per Su 10, ice saus, in ar 45..

---

## Page 71

14-00000

Headquarters,

, 91st ¿vacuation Hospita: (St)

Offies of the Corrending Officer

APO #333

1? Narch 1945

GONERAL OrDER)

NUXB3R

9)

*EXIIALI

4o By direction of the Fresident, under the provisions of az 600-45, 22

September 1943,

the Furple Heart is awarded to the folowing naned Enlisted lan

on 16 larch 1945°

Private First Class Cecil S. Monnin, (ASN 35535653), Office of strategic

Service, US Army, for injuries received as a result of eneny action on lk larch

1945 In Germany,

Entered military service fros Ohio.

Bi. order of Cu392+l HAYES:

OFFICIAL:

In Fio SIXBERLY,

Capt Med Adn G,

Adjutant.

Capt, lied Adr: &:

Adjutén..

write tation

KENNEEN T

id in ise,

Ist Into, Ci?.

Asst Adjutani.

HESIEICIED

---

## Page 72

14-00000

RESTRICIED

HEADZUKATEES THIrD INFANT-Y DIVISION

OFFICE CF

•THE COLLING GRiAL

APO NO 3

16 November 194l

SUBJECT: Award of Eronze Star ledal.

ID

: Private Denald Ro Macilee, 33 753 300, Strategie Services Section,

G? Sectior, Third Infantry Division.

Under the provisions of Arny legulations 600-45, you are avarded the

Bronz. Star ledal for valorous conduct in action against the enemy.

CITATION:

DONALD R. MACAFRE, 33 753 300, Private, Strategic Services Section,

C Section,

3rd Irantry Division.

For valorous consuct in action against the

enemy •

Cn 2 Septenter 1944, Frivate lachfee infiltrated an agent and two

walkie-talkie sets sore than 30 kilometers behind tie eleny's lires to a point seven

Illoneters southeast of * * *, at that time the Third Division's objective.

That

night he successfully passed the agent into *** and then passed a walkie-talkie

set to hin, establishing his own set in a chirch steeple at * **.

He operated

the set even while a German patrol passed along the street beside

tire church.

At

1.500 hours 3 Septecder 1944, radio contact having failed, he proceeded toward # # #

with an FFI patrol of five men.

Encountering 15 energ on a truck,

he opened fire

as did the linquis. Four enemy fell.

Taking cover behind a banks,

Frivate LacAfee

and his five men continued to fire, although his was the only automatic weapon.

The ereny countered with automatic weapons and rifle fire and grenades, killing

one and wounding a second FFI can.

Their strength reduced to four men, the FFI

patrol räthdrew.

Eneny losses were eight killed.

The following day, radio contact

having failed again, Private Macifee entered * by rowboat at llO hours.

Advance elements of the 36th Division reached the outskirts at 1700 hours;and were

Inforned by MacAfee that the last German had left the city.

The American troops

Inmediately occupied the city.

Residence: 1412 20th Street, Washington, D. Go

fs/ John i%. O*Daniel

/ JOHN. N. O DANIEL

Major General, U. So Army

Commanding®

PUBIS I.

RA I30h,

Lit It,

CAC.

BESIRICIED

..?"

---

## Page 73

RESIIICIED

HEARTEN L HANUATE 10H7 ( CEO SPUTE SOSS, NO AS

UNITED SLATES ANY

27 April 1945

This

CERTIFICIATE OF MERIT

- Is awarded to

Sergeant ALBET k. KLiNg

39260036

in recognition of conspicuously meritorious and outstanding performance of military

du tog

CITATION

"As a non-cornissioned officer of tiis organization did irith enthusiastic interest,

cooperation and untiring effor', assist in military planning and operations, the

result of which were of inestinable value in the successful invasion and liberation

of France."

Ist It, CAC

James F. Forgan,

JAMES F. FONGAl,

Colonel, GSC,

Commanding®

RESIAICIER

---

## Page 74

128

3007

R2 & IF DETAININ

OFTICE CE STRAT GIE 1IN/I053

SORDENI THATS OY OPFRATIGNS

TOT CL0 TATES ANALY

(PENTARE,

200.€ AX

APO 837

21 Asay 1945

JaTocre Return of Anarde

Atta do duardo and incorations franca

Lo pha folloring personnol, amarded decoratione as tailoated

below, have baen trinaterial from

Major Robart i dont gery

Logion of incit

2 Ite Into He Clunge

DEC

2a das 11221e So 2001015°

silver star

co 78

00 82

co 82.

toqunst that action insolar as the precentation o these

mardo lo consernod be transierrad to le cifiee of stratogle 'emleal.

shingtoll, Do Co

For the Commanding Cflour:

CORPOR &. LIVINE

majore tiC

Anato Adjutant

9 Dole,

Inal lo Logioa of Merit

1nol 2e DSC

Suver StAT

RETURN TO RECORDS CENTER

IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE

10861823 BUX. 20

69112

---

## Page 75

14-0000đ

3007

OFFICE OF CRITICIC SLAVICES

FISH NE7N1 0 026C3

UNITED JUN ALI

(121 mi

200. 6 18

18 kay 1945

Return of awarda

itas so Amaria and iocorations Bras

do The fallouina Fersonnel, anarded the Bronze 3tar by Canera

nder 75. El, Juropean I of opas, U3 Arm, have been transferred *

Mo 0 of strateglo ste Tashington, DoCes

Lat Lie Do So Gomerich

Jat set.

Roqueat tant aotion insofar na the promentation of these

amarde is concarned to brassferred.

For the Coumanding Offlear:

Anato Adjutant

& ID0:8s

Inal lo Bronze Star Ladal (2)

---

## Page 76

HESTRIOTED

Amria & Incoratten.

(s0:)

(nd)

do the silver 340r to 200 118 Luelen to DouriT

Ro FOUr (4) copdes of Co 43 are Inolood for

dImrIbutIon to canington and your flledo.

* Inola.

Inad 1 - 18A 12 1PI9A, 26 138 45

8 = G0 43e (quadrupidato)

site

HEONNOTED

---

## Page 77

HEAD QARIZES

2677TH REGLIKIT (PRO:)

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC STATICES

APO 512, U.S ARAY

16 December 1941

Colonel David I. I. Bruce

Commandig Officer

Iqo d Ha. Detachmen*

Office of Strategie Services, FrOUSA

APO 887, U. S. Ary.

Dear David:

I Bally bellove that the marding of Logsons of Merit

to people that baro dono I1ttlo moro than to a1t ne offico

• desk,

to talk, and to push papere around le somerhat o111y. I am afraid

that OSS v1ll acquire an unfortunte reputation for firing t0o

many decoratias.

Certainly I don't thick that I an deserving

of one.

Horever, 1t in outaido of my hando, and all that 1 can

ray in that I deeply appreciate the motive which prompted you

to rocommend me for a Legion of herit covering the perlod of y

work in London.

I have alvaya felt that nataver succes ve may

have had in the mathering of the stormn of those early days vas

due primarily to the londorahip unlos you yoursols provideda...

I a very clad, howver, that you aso secommending

suitable aards to the honda of the various Alliod services 1n

London.

In a for cases 1t may be necentary to recommend ararda

for more than ose individual in a given service, but you have

dountlenn taion all this lato full socomt.

Tr Mo SOTe!

people at Broadray who vare enpecially helpful to um, bat I an

afrald that 1f you single then out they might be mabjoet to

conomela their orn offica for kaving Given un asuintance beyond

the leval of official polley.

with continued bent wishes, I am,

Siacerely your!,

Bill Madday

105

---

## Page 78

APO ERI

87 ang 1965

700. 6AX

309727e Fidentalion of Amrde

50.

jaud

sula londartars saventad tho fallasing manda an indicatoia

a fon sola i clasta

Ito Calo John do iPos

DEC

1 of M •

00

72

For the Commilag Offlear.

28 15=12 1945

з ray 1945

CONDEI NA LEVINE

133 JOs, 516

Nosto Al Jutant

---

## Page 79

3007.

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

MISSION TO FRANCE

UNITED STATES FORCES, EUROPEAN IZATER

200. 6/1-15

APO 837

19 July 1945.

SUBJECT: ivard of Unit Certificate of Herit.

T0 : Commanding Officers/Chiefs of Kissions.

Annosecement is made of the award of the lit Certificate of lerit

to the following named personnel in recognition of conspicuously aeritorious

and outstanding performance of nilitary duty:

It Colonel JOHN H. COLBY

032924

AUS

CITATION

"For exemplary devotion to duty and outstanding work in the interests

of the United States Army."

It Colonel ROBEPT I. FORELI-

0329025

Cav

CITATION

"For exemplary devotion to duty, unusual initiative, and outstanding

service in the isterests of the United States Ar."

It Colonel LAWRENCE B. SHALUCROSS

0293590

Cay

CITATION

"For exemplary devotion to duty, excellent foresight, unusual

Initiative, and cuts; inding service in the interests of the United States Army "

Major FRANCIS B. MILLS:

0398793

FA

; CITATION

"for exemplary devotion to duty and outstarding work in the interests

'of the United States Army."

Major FRANCISZEN SOBECKI

Polish Army

CITATION

"For his zeal and devotion to duty and his invaluable contribution

# the successful operations of the Office of Strategie Services®"

Major FHILIP O, STEARNS

0417816

FA

CITATION

"In recogaition of the high degree of tact, conscientious devotion

to duty, and indefatigable industry displayed nhile performing valuable

services for the Office of Strategic Services."

Captaia JAMES S. KRONHAL

0523011

ADS

CITATION

"For services which required great siall and leadership and which

materially contributed to the successful operations of the Office of Strategie

Services."

Captaia EDTARD C. AILLER

01551689

Ord

CITATION

"For meritorious achievements requiring great ingenuity and Industry,

which anterially contributed to the operations of the Office of Strategic

Services®"

RESIBILIER

auer)

---

## Page 80

RESIDICIED

Captain FRED R. 3IILI4i5.

02031851

Cav

CITATIO!

"In recogrition of lis perseverase and initiative while rendering

outstanding services to the Office of Stratezie Services."

Ist It BRITION CHARLES NORMAND

0915005

"In recognition of It Jormand's caterial contribution to the success

of the sperations of the Office of Strategic Services."

15t It GEORCE R. PETEY

0886331

"For superior perforsance and der-tion to ducy, integrating out-

standinz cooperation and leadership with exceptional organizational and

technical ability."

Ist It JO: Si. RACZITE ICZ

01050432

"For great Ingenuitj and tact displayed in the performance of services

Important to the successful operations of tie Office of Strategic Services.*

1st It RICHARD H. "ILaJR

01162997

CITATIOS

"In recogrition of his superior work, industry and resourcefulness

in

performance of his duties with th: Office of Strategic Servicés."

Ist It ARTHUP R TATOES

01798898

CHF

—- CITAHO

"In recogrition of his outstandinz services which have materially

contributed to the successful operations of the Office of Strategie Services.*

and It ALFRED C. CLAEZ

02015992

AUS

"In recognition of his invalueble contribution to the suceessful

operations of the Difice of Strategie Services,"

l Sgt Frank Po. Bishop

33752457

CITATION

for untiring devotion to duty, leadership, initiative and seal.

these accions nave. had great bearing on the success of the accomplisments of

the Office of Strategic Services in the Eurozean Theater."

M Sgt Ludwig R. Schener

34078474

CITATION

"For exerplary devotion to duty and outstanding work in the interests

of the taited States Army."

# Sgt Joseph Simon

39379996

CITATION

"In recognition of Is initiative and industry in the performance

of important services for the Office of Stra'egic Services."

T Sgt John S. Delphenich

161710 lade

September 194l maintaining radio service for SE Unit of OSS.

Tor exceptional and artuous consumication dutles perforsed im

2-

-'é.

---

## Page 81

BESILGIZE.

T Sgt Aldrich F. Homola

31006248

CITATION

"In recognition of the hig. degree of industry, devotion to duty,

and disregard of perzonal safety displayed while performing valuable service

to» thoOffice of Strategic Services."

T Sgt David F. Huf

CIRATION

"In recognition of his valuable contribution through complete

attention to duty in an important undertaking."

Tec 3 Mitchell Stywa

32188459

-CITATION

"For the skillful perfor ence of duties contributing to the success-

ful operations of the Office of Strategic Services."

§ Sgi Grendolin I. Edwards

CITATION

7505555

"For the highly skillful and efficient administration of dities

Important to the Üffice of Strategic Services."

§ Sgt Vladinir Havsky

- CATATION

33627650

"For meritorious service in the superior performance of assigned

tasks and a high devotion to duty.".

s set lloyd A. Mallory

- CITATION

39321483

eir ys" "for loyal, trustworthy, and highly efficient service, and untiring

devotion to duty."

S Sgt Haldor & Shields

35223328

CITATION

#or meritorious service in the superior performance of assigned

tasks and a high devotion to duty."

Sgt Ralph D. sorgan

35068098

- CITATION

"For consistently superior performance, outstanding and cheerful

devotion to duty; excelling in tact, patience and appearance."

Set archie 3. Rainey CITATION:

15305805

"For combining exceptional loyalty, zeal, initiative and tact with

• consistently superfor performance and outstanding devotion to duty."

Sgt Homer A. Thornton

33673871

CITATION

"In recomition of his valuable contribution to the successful

operations of the Office of Strategic Services."

Tec la. Buford C. Crowder

36592549

CITATION

"For loyal, trustnorthy, and highly efficient service and untiring

devotion to duty.

BESIDIGIED

---

## Page 82

RESIRIGIE?

Tec 4 Goodhue Diament

13096924

CITATION

"For initiative, energy, devotion to duty and outstanding service

during the Ardennes Campaign."

Tec l Anthony S. LoPresti

..EIATION

35066780

"In recognition of his untiring efforts in the execution of duties

Important to the Office of Strategic Services."

Tec. 4. Kenneth H. Feberg

16124545

CITATION

"For exceptional and arduous commnication duties performed in

• September 1944 maintaining radio service for SF Unit. of CSS."

(pl Vialter La Freund

35913718

-CITATION

"In recognition of the successiul performance of complex duties,

requiring a special skill and great resourcefulness."

Cpl Edmund P. Kurz

32989525

CITATION

"In recognition of urasual initiative and industry while efficiently

dischärging complex duties for the Office of Strategic Services."

(pl Carl A. Selby

36696145

"For exceptionally meritorato service in an important and successful

operation undertaken by this organization."

Cpl Willem X. Sypestern

32309791

CITATION

"For services, requiring resourcefulness and great skill,

which

materially contributed to the successful operations of the Office of Strategic

Services."

Cpl Rafeel Wand

42034846

CITATION

For the performance of services

requiring great imagination and

perseverance, which saterially contributed to the successful functioning of

the Office of Strategic Services."

(pl Rudi Feiss

CITATION

ipor exceptionally meritorious service in an important and successfil

operation undertaken by this organization."

Pfe Rudolf Anzbock

39134178

CITATION

"In recognition of the high degree of skill, initiative, and industry

displayed while performing important services for the Office of Strategic

Services."

CIVILIAN PERSONNEL

lin Howard Becker

CITATION®

"For exceptionally aritorious service in an imartant and successful

operation undertaken; 1s orgarication."

RESIRICIED

---

## Page 83

14-00000

REZIRLGIED

ballian, eastman

4. 40

CITATION

"In recognition of his conscientious and skillful handling of an

assignment important to the

Services."

successful operations of the Office of Strategie

Miss Barbara Cochrane

CITATION

"For exemplary devotion to duty and outstanding work in the Interests

of the United States Army."

Mr Edward i. Erne

CITATION

"For exemplary devotion to duty and outstanding work in the Interests

of the United States Arny."

Mr billiam So Gold

CITATION

"In recognition of the sutstanding performance of services recuir

ing initiative,

Strategic Services.*

tact and mature juiguent, while on duty mith the Office of

Mrs Ruby H. KeShane

CITATION

"For loyal devotion to cuty, initiative and determination, which

rendered a substantial contribution to the successful accomplishment of the

duties of this unit."

Mrs. Thelma Norgan

CITATION

"For supcrior performance of duty, excellency in tact and patience

wnich contributed to z najor portion of the success of this unit."

Mr Willian Icller

CITATION

"For exceptionally meritorious service in an important and success-

ful operation undertaken by this organization."

Mr Fred R. Ostheimer

CTEATION

"In recognition of his unselfish devotion to duty and his in:-lu-•

able contribution to the operations of the Office of Strategic Services."

-Miss Doris C. Pearse

"CITATION

dudinistrative assistant

ve asretant votion arsonal outta, ins initiative as

Ir H. Frederick Peters

CITATION

"For exceptionally meritorious service in an Important and success

ful oporation undertaken by this organization."

ltr Georges H. Pradhonne

LITATION

"For display of unusual siali and initiative in handling complex

detaile of Fiscal Office, Office of Strategde Services, (Fud)."

• 5.

BASTILLER

---

## Page 84

RESIRICLED

Mr Hans J. Rehfisch

CITATION

"For exceptionally ceritorious service. in an important and succéss

ful operation undertaken by this orgapizationi"

Miss Elizabeth Risier

CITATION

"For extraordinary courage and excuplary devotion is duty in supply

ing outstanding and valuable information to the United States Army."

Mr Herbert F. Scott

-CITATION

"For meritorious services, loyalty, devotion to duty and untiring

efforts in behalf of this orgenization."

Miss Dorothy White

"for unstänting cooperation and continued effort which materially

assisted in carrying to a successful completion the plans of the Office of

Strategie Services."

NAVE PERSONNEL

It (18) Edmund Michael Burke

276961

USNR

CITATION

"In recogsition of his perseverance and initistive while rendering

important services to the uffice of Strategic Services.*

chief Jeoman Lendell Hayfield

• 6104751

/ USNR

"In recognition of his ready acceptance of responsibilities and

outstanding efficiency in the performance of his duties."

Sp(X) Ic idolf R. Nowakors'd

8054242

CIPATION

"For his great industry and efficiency in contributing to the

successful operations of the Office of Strategic Services®

Sp(7) 2c. Ragmund S. Males

8753869

"In recogition of his initiative and his conscientious and efficient

performance of duties."

RH2/c Raymond 3. Filipkoski

8212364

CITATION

"In recognition of his loyalty and skill in the performance of

duties liportant to the Office of Strategic Services."

Gy Sgt Robert LaSalle

264321

USE:

CITATION

"In recognition of the high degree of efficiency, initictim ind

untiring Industry displayed while performing important services for the dfice

of Strategic Sorvices.

P1 Sgt Honer Do Mantooth

289366

• USUC

CITATION

"In recogrition of the unfailing devotion to duty, unceasing effort,

and complete cooperation displayed while performing valuchle services for the

Office of Stratugic Serviçes."

RESILICLED

---

## Page 85

14-00000

RESIRIGIED

Ist It JOHN I. iNDERSON

0887962

-TATION

"In recognition of the high degree of intiative, resourcefulness

and untiring affort displayed while performing valuable services

for tho

•Office of Strategic Services."

For the Co manding Officer:

Ist It,

Asst Adjutante

1??:

peniler

sis inade

МУ:15 Р: с*.:..1.

.:

9+9090479 1

• =.

---

## Page 86

14-00000

inerds and Decurations

Priate 0,

31 Branchg

05. /France

3 dug 45

lo Transitod hererit: roster si personnel to

mon ataris are to se presented per ineral Orders

rosaily jolished by sacher hestruarars.

2o It is romested tint you nobily fiase of the

above malloned persmiel mo urt wraths of your branch

a sho have worked for your branch thit a present: ion ceretony sili ve bald at 17u

houro, 17 injust,. In the Director's 01l1ce.

3.

It is furner requested that tnin office be

advised as soon as possible of the names of persinel sho vill de i resent at the ceremony.

Ist It,

asst ajutant.

Pain-Sest-A0-1 sandy

Lox 1012

---

## Page 87

ROSTER

Franels ?, Miller

• Col Louin Faucher

Lt Col G. Delas

EEEEEE

Richard G. Arnold Baker

Janes 1. H. Suensen

k. Hoat gomery

H. Dasiels

lo Foston

CollaT. Jones

Capt de i escula

Capt Alen co donnan

Capt Reere Schley, Jr

Capt E. Lautaint

Lat doran: vorache

35t indi 1n le sisop

Le Cullierto Mercader

Iat, Io de Terdern

La George Leclerca

It ie C. Hanna

Ist It M. Volpe

5/1t Marcel Biscaino

S/Lt Georges Cordeau

SLES. P.

Saisier

S/lt M. H. Faivre

S/it lio Cenard

S/Lt. H. Schouler

S/It Merre Fauroux

S/I$ Ao Degorse

La Col EIF Black

Ma j Dana B. Lurend

Ist Il John 3. Fatterson

2nd It Clement kault

2nd It Albert zablenaud

2nd It Horrie ja-ouite

Condt U. Sawerre

Sgt Sorbert do You

Sgt nasdre Hallesses

M Sat Falge B. jnoyer

Tec 3 Edmund S. Forada

Ivt Lucien Le jo11

Enseigne de Vaisseau 2/e R. Jianes

Sgt Go Caramanos

---

## Page 88

14-00000.

FILE 10.

SUBJECT

Paris Sect Ad=1

Herry Leger

DOCUMENT TRANSFER FORM

SOURCE

(ST. LEGER, Henri)

SATED

SECRET I

No Date

THE ABOVE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED TO FILE NO..

201-62499

Remarks:

Paris- dect - a

Дос. - 1.01

Folde,:#1

Box -

#1

Juanita Clar

ANALYST:

10 Sept. 1956

DATE

SECRET

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE 1O: -.

$ 80. 867 AXPARCES FORM

#BBCH WAT

Parie-dect-Ad-l

---

## Page 89

INCLASSIFIED®

CONEIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

STRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" celuma.

Under each comment a line should be drawn across shet

and each comment numbered to correspond with the namber in the "TO" column

Each officer should initial (crack mark insufficien

before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should he returned to Registry.

TELEPHONE

NO.

FROM:

DATE

SECRET

ROOM

DATE

RECD

FWYD

ГТЕА

TELEPHONE

COMMENTS

P. mu Bi

11/201

4 B000 1

1.7

PLEASE INTTIAL, APIER REVLEDG

5-15 Reelso. to

201-84210

0ob61-823

space 69112.

: I.

1908.03. Tenthe

RETURN TO

112

RI/ARCHIVES

R&S

REVIOUS EDITACH

TO O1-10 MATIV

SECRE1

FIs No. Peria - Lief-es - 1

DOCUMENT: * 99

FOLDER: * L

PAGE:

BOX: +70

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

(40)

tara

---

## Page 90

aire

ANO 887

•31 8019 2995

Bos dietributione

2000 dour: 36 017 12050

me coranal at the call el tse roulent at

Ro Presane parol

Et Col Co Co Penne

1T061600€

ad Le Ie Te Fassons

Encorder

Ene attachant sur Clopoaltion de recorendations for

she noetlas sajourned es

: 20

BUTs 30 J0Zy 2250

Ripost

Inald

commonting caricat,

calonal de 10 i029e0

CItations Board,.

cretarlet, 508415700

mat Amanch Conornod

M11e:

062 A918

Alfatent o 01210

FILE

---

## Page 91

Llo Calo Latinaso 3o shalleresi,

Das cal bartes de 3 3021030 01 01955 , c

captain Andron !m0100l, Chl4329, ^0

0155353

0386336, AN.

7/88 niuin s shuran, 16317353

gos 3 sinns de Carteye 39334789

358 Pelli le Clariaro, 31;5076

5et Alvia la Ingongeard, 1i047589

SE8 JOAn 7o LA 270, 32025049

Tes: 110530 6005-8503-157695

Tel

5 raymond + 1958, 31675424

sardart do 10dr10, 3 34h686

runtber spoyer, 251368

Ignasias corrao, 35659902

380

cott crall, 33476571

binard se J0ln808, 37564365

Ste Riesará Po Lindere 15555585

004 70448672

Pte Chantain

38091211

3 35725132

seine

---

## Page 92

-550%

BA • HA ISTACHI

STOPEAN TIKATLE OF OP-KATICE

CITED STATLY ALIT

÷a006 A7

sUbtIlle Amri. el crois de cuerto.

TO

1O00 DISPENSE AT CHINE APO 897. 03 A

ARO 887

26 June 1945

So In Doolnien 531, French army (com atlachad), dated 17 surel 1945

lno entiro office and enlisted pornonnal of this organizasion's catachman

wits and is Any ma amried the crois de Guerre.

Presentation ms made

This handquarters has no objension to the anard, and. la dealrous

of cosaining full eredit for the numed for sio nonbars of thia desaahment.

Il sa Aberefore requested Shat permansen be adren so anch of she sadiridual

coarned to near the deecresion.

So roster ol personal eoneernd sarela 1a Analenod.

For the vomendira offlees.

STANTET M, HOLICO

het Lies She

2 Inele

Peric- Sex-ad-,

Bot I

voide # /

• 1.

,B. :

1004-3

---

## Page 93

1 A FINEL

OITICE OT STATICIE SEMICIS

BONOPZAN THEATS: CI O3 RATIONS

200,6 1з

APO 807

7 дило 2945

ATta AC Awarde and sesorationo ranohe

Lo cener dier Na. 92 mardo Le LAgiOn Of U18 BO lajor to To

motos, momber of tito ongminntion..

2, Insach es the aboromanead allonis has boen tranafattod to tho o

al stralogio →, insi:ingtol LoCo, rogunat Bant presentation of Sala avan

lo transferl to that hondestens.

Fer

Comandina Citieura

Anfora 390

10888 ad Jutent

---

## Page 94

300%

TICK OF TALESGIC SERVICE

ANOPLAN THEATER OF OPIUOR

UNITIO STATES ARA

(RATIARD

30666 AX

MaTT: predestation of Amardo.

APO 897

5 Jume 1945

The folloring prenuntasion of anarda of descrationa vere nade by thie

oranianties so s0ld008.

26 1947 3945

Jo% Iãe to do DuReRRo ISCi GO 560

2 June 3915

8/LE He TOSY, STORIA STAr, GO lo

B/Lt Be S• Carm% de lindde. bronze Tara GO 2•

S/LE do USION SilTer TEr, 6O A6

8/16 lo ayasand 311per Star, 60 A6o

Vil to cranger, tilras tar co At

•U1t do Beural, Silver Star. CO 4B.

B/LE Co LuessED, ISG. GO 4%

S/1t Ce Toallar, silver stare CO 49.

at do ideol, sliver star, co 50.

Wit fo Misser, 130, 90 82

I4 So cayote Ista Co 85.

las Lto Ja Lebalgue, =30, GO 6%°

nor Ra Fo Iodderide, Theater o

305116.

Far She° Commanding Cfficers

95

Paris set cubii,

---

## Page 95

DECISION NO 679

General # GUlls, iresident of the Provision" Coverant al

the French Sopublic, diles of the arules, sates the citation

FE IS ORDIER OF THE ARMY

• Captin Geoffrey Yantzoniry Tallot JOTZ, 12:322,

American Ofteer parachuted in IBINC: a fer mys before the

Handing in Southem arance vith a team wuse disalon is to establima

the Ilalson between icsiatanci Groups and parachuted Evap

Acomplished his siasion with complete isreguri of danger.

This citation Includes the azard of the Crois de Cuerre

udth Fal

I DIS DEDER O THES COUPS D'APHSE

- Injor BoyCe So WISHBHER, Assistant Chief of Staff

We shie And Dision.

Displayed an extreme devotion to duty to give help to the

entferings of the french civilian populations, hit by she tara

Tolutersed te emanery a french Letson Offter reing to the

holp of a group of refugees at elferdinge fas sounied during this

operation, an 9 Deceaber 194i, by a shell fragent while giving his

holo to rescue civilian population with a comlete disregurd of danger.

This oltation Includes the award of the croir de

Guerre with vernilion star

FAilIs, 1 ba1 1945

/ DE CAVILi

CERTYLIS A TRUS COPTS

tom

Kenne

KENET T.

KARISOT,

208 It,

CICa

92893

94

---

## Page 96

14-00000

AS 2i1NJ00E8E

1a8 1/102

Hq, Buropens 5 of Cars, U3

•908

00, Henartore Hendgarters Detactment hig Mropen I Of Duna

Mention La Inuitod to the Inclosed Deo: s1m 1a, 579, 1 My 19%1 Concre

o murd of the Crois de Cherre uith Pala so Coptain Geotray tontranery iz1b

Jones which 1a sorrlid for your infortion

a do 1I. Corley,

WTo

Lt, Colonel, loCol.

AssIstant Adjutant Sener'1®

214N 10)

22 find.

To Tie 38551, balled Stated forese, caropean theate

901 LATE CENTUEI la To JONES, la & Ma DeBoChmento DES, APO 187, US liy.

I09 go g Intomation

. By order of Colonel FOLdie

STILLY NO HOLETE

JUL

9

---

## Page 97

14-00000

30071

NO OR PILY IN LOST BODERE DEAL LENE LASS FA

USE DUTIE HIDEE EE PAREN

SUBJECTS:

Amard of broir de tuerre

Porried for your information and appropriate disposition.

, Director

Office •

OSS/ETt

APO 887

Adj 0,

OSS/ET

APO 827

7

July

1945

cal

Sible

mope

Ist lot,

Asst Adjutant.

1 Incl:

Award of Crois de Cert

• to Capt Jones

For sjour info -

Hoves

a sent find bey

French

92

Uso other side

118% 6Fo

---

## Page 98

PENTIA

Suropen Deares of Overestor

United Staten Army

(MATIN)

- 1F0 413

25 1iaJ, 1945

SUITs Wisten Of Awards and Decoralion

004405.05 29 1ay- 1944500

701: 1 Calonel James R. Porgas, CaS (Pudo)

Lo Colonel Jorgan presided over a lionting of all Branch

Chíuts and appropriate personnel hold. at 1400 bours on 23 May, mist

ma: called to discass the submission by the Branches of liats of

personnel to be recomtended for awards and decorasion..

2. • Colonel Forgan stressed the Inportance of Irmediate

corsideratior of tae

awards and Lecorations problen before liquidation

activities had progressed to a point where the absence of personel

and records would seriously impede the work.

30

Among Awards and Decorations for which recormendatione

should be made, Colonel Forgan called the heetings attention

especially to the possibilities offered by the award of Theater

Ribbons to civiliens, the tro types of Certification of lieris and

the Meritorious Service Tnit Plaque.

A11: Branch Chiela vere diree: by Colonel Forgan to

suimit to the Adjutant by 1200 bours, 30 lay, lists containing the

names with proposed award or decoration of all Brench personal and

appropriate foreign personnel which the iranch wished: to recarmend.

Walsa

HALTSR ICRD.

Secretariat

Cal Gamble

What issitration hire with

reset t wand durating

41

CONFIDENTIAL

Bass 20 PA

---

## Page 99

(934i4d)

A30 337

17 250. 8215

10006.AX

do In andarlsua vita aereasoni vitA chier, so amaris and

to your bandeasteros

118. Mere sinet

•transh asry

Ite dadre 1106.

Franch Arg

230

silver Star

suiner Star

Co 47

00

9 87

3n me homs alineatos al the nont ni kin of onch sa si abum

loure are lallontad in parigina è os tino attaciad Letiana, you

hondurtere

For. Bae Cornading ciflear.

CORDON LA ITINE

a far vo

.dento si fusa

I081o JL1F•I TOCCA 145 45 15 855 228 TierTa 91208

• 5/18 sadre Poel

SAle irlatide crom

Inclojaltre "

90

tridie 1

Лейт.

MAY 4 8 PA

---

## Page 100

14-00000

(=DP)

3007

I AM CITICHANT

OTICE OF STUFIC SIRVICES

(RAT)

AÃO 837

29 1ag 1923

200 bad

SUBTINTA Preseatation of andy

50

& DORSARdInE CODAEl, JUTOPORA Y Of OPAN. US ATIVE ME EBY

atta, AO amaris and locorations Eranb

Fla Dendour rinsested the solloing murdo as iniloated

e 10 My 29434

s/Ito Pe Ao

Bolto do lo to Xanaat

silvas Star

sIlvE 5807

"GO 46

Ce 49

CORDON do L2/213

Anto. All Jutant

89

---

## Page 101

13.00

CITICE UP STUT GIC JUICE

SIR CUSAT THAT A OF LILTICHS

CHITZD ЗТАТУ АЛНИ

(TOM:)

70006 AX

APO 807

28 song. 8945

staysola preminsatiod ef

mine soonradle. a

TO.

* Commanding Canarel, Juropean 8 el DISS, IS Ario iNO 18

1Ntas 16 Arario nad jocorations Erna

So In andordezoe uità agramon: vila chia: lo sarta and

posthamous anarun 8o 1:h0rs ef tila craination us frunsferred 80

your hondarters

nat of fia: Tonstar of indoor joan Toya

(3501205 & inster)

I rue do matpriller

Tal (runtate)

(Mother & Father)

I me Sate

8/18 30302 l Jourder, Mened Aray - DBC = CO 18%

Beat of Kine

ITe 2020pl Jourdea (father)

(Palater, Fran

g imalsa

2mod 30 1.85

DORDON HO LATINY

anute Al jutaa?

• 320 Hoger Tosses

Dd 20 my for V18 Jossal i Sounda

MAY 19 FA

---

## Page 102

14-00000

Acoi MOTED

suo!

UNTOT YPATTS ACA

(FAYND)

APO 60

20066 A8

APPS DO ANTRO ALL iNSORRILORA JANEI

Zo Imat an lia fashor of 111& Clopos mascos In reablanol, trono

and al Bido cagalianion so laxior Enlatalin & deiaolns la thas counsaye

fur the Common. Ing 48110089

GO DA Me 1202173

Ja Jose C

- allver itar sode

87.

RESTRIOTED

---

## Page 103

14-00000

FAIS

Ist It Robert 3. Sor. rgsteer

Capt Gerard Je Fodkinsor

SPECIAL FUNDS SRiCT

TA CAM

ACTION TA: 2H

Butt do

eater Cormande Vs Certificate or Xerit

Approved

Has Secial Funis Officer, CSS Formard.

Approved

Tas

Special Turds Officer,

OSS Forward.

86

---

## Page 104

14-00000

f/Sgt lary ta Tyran

SECURITY BRANCH

ACTIOF TAR

Init Comander's Certificate of l'erit

Approved

REASCWS

85

---

## Page 105

MAVE

1/4 Kenneth F. Freemar

1/3

I lyri do

o'Donnel!

T/SEt Janes R. Stokes

Sat Richard

Schevernarn

5 donn As fordon

=/Sgt George do Diorin

T/Sgt Jack Ae

Sorgenfrei

I/Sgt John J. Carlson

T/4 Henrietta E. DeRestie

?/Sgt Letha F. Todd

T/3 Edrard V. Hell

ADJUTANTS OFFICE

ACNION TARAI

Unit Corander's Cestificate of l'erit

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

approved

Approved

Aproved

approved

approved

Approved

REASONS

one".: 35.725 no.

---

## Page 106

SERVICES BRANCH

NAME

ACTION THEN

REASONS

Unit. Corrander's Certificate of lierft

pfe Bawin J. Griesdorn

Approred

Cast Albert I Lore, J" Approved

I/Szt VIrginia J. Kuch Approved

I/Sgt Leroy "e Alerander Approved

I/5st Leland J. Prater

Approved

83

---

## Page 107

14-00000

DIRECER'S OFFICE

XALE

/ Co1 David Fo Fo Bruce

. Lajor Edwin A. WIllard

ACTION TA EN

Approved

Approved

_RE:SONS

Jas CO 053/250.

Legion of Herit-

was Chief

Flarning

section

SO from 12 Ior 44 to

2O June 45. Pronze Star Sedal.

---

## Page 108

14-00000

Iewis G. lack, An eiv

Major Robert F. Rushin

Grace Dolowitz, An eit

Eginald H. Phelos, An civ

Pfe Roy R. B.

Attrice, Sr.

Cpl Samuel B. Bossard

iJ

81

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

X-2 BRANCHI - 3

(SCCN :ont.)

Jas head of Iberian Desk of X-2: played "deron.

strable and crcective role" in cathering Ircornatio

on eneny agents operating in neutral countries;

prepared list of over 800 names for automatic

arrest, used oy SCI aid CIC.

Yas head of Insurance Unit o1 1-2:

gathere. Infor-

mation from tri Insurance company files used by

Ta delese last preparation atont

folders or assessment of bonb danage.

das Assistant to head of "lestern Buropean west and

Special Case Officer of STADF far Room (CI); largely

responsible for CI target. lists used by I forces;

acted as Ame-ican officer In SFAF CI War Room for

handling?

analyzing,

interpreting and dissezinating

all special top secret materials, made available to

CIC and other agencies.

Carried on large part of interrogation of supreme

chief of Gerran intelligence and CI service,

captured by 12th AG, resulting in apprehension of

many agents.

Succeeded lafor Rushin as head ot Insurense unit

represented oss on sub-crimittee of lar Cabinet joint

Intelligence Committee;

uccessfully canvassed all

Insurance companies in

EtO,

securing all ertant

records of industrial risks in enemy or ereuy

occupied territory.

Vas

case officer of German Section of X-2 and lat

Chief of Documents Section SHARP CI War Room•

---

## Page 109

Capt Jee

Approved

it to Mange Star

Approved

Capt Roger Golran

Kajor Benjanin Telles

Capt Hubert Ie

W111

• (JE) Minston l. Scott

т....... +..

Ist It Bisara Re.

Teismiller,

Calvin I. Tenney, An Civ

It Jerome l. Shay

,X-2 BRACE: = 2

(Bronze Star cont.)

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

ApprovEd

das excutive oficer. to chier of French !'111tary

Security and ca; mas larzely resunsibLe 1or

great coreration on Dinains and interchange of

Intowntion ratreen attico, Britian and inerican

Service pe

Tas Bezional officer in worth Africa in French o

and later as executive officer In

France to= tre

section crared with peretration of eneny ir.tellig-

ence services: carrted out successful vor aga rst

eng pation racen rosco; tall

Fines

treby aidira in

Served X-2 In THT0 and later as CD of 69th SCI unit

and 11th SCI unit.

Tas Executive Officer to CO

SCI Prance.

Has Assistant to Chief; acting Chief and later Chie?

of X-2 DrO.

Was X-2 nenber of British II-5 Double Agent Section,

later lead of German Section and Assistant to Cher

X=2 Branch E30.

This recommendation was held over

Iron previous neeting and passed after consultation

with r. Fearson.

Was Case Officer

of Controlled Breny Agent Section

and later coo-dinator o: Controlled Benemy agent

Traffic at Sci Eg.

This recommendation was held

over fron previous meeting and aproved after con

sultation with die Pearson.

Theater Commander's Certificate of Herit

Approved

Jas special case officer and assistant to head o

dis exceptional work

In judging reliabi-

Jating "ar Room policy and toois charge in absenco

of chief.

Approved

In charge of a sub-section of War Room

responsible for capture of 905, of

was

personnel of

Front Reconnaissance Troop 122. of Gernan secret

service.

---

## Page 110

14-00000

8-3 EZAECS

ACCION TARAN

(ol) valentine pie

71vian

Approved

eit: UK

awarderlegion aMerit

it Col)John F. Cou: 111

(Br

Approved

peos: 9717647

zebertson

(Er ArLy)

Jartens (Torm. Army) Approved

it: Norway

¿(Cat) Andre H. EMPornefous

Approved

Rite Issuea

Er Army)

amarded Figing Test

Major Jo'm Mller

Approved for

BSK

Tot Alphonse Zinner

Approved for

TCCH

Lesten of l'erit

Hes Deputy Director in charze of Security folley

Britise

cecial

3E-4

gate particular tie a'1

cooperatino to ensiga military security cos

-erican amas in

neutral countries and considerably turnered

carrerer"

ter

frea

all coster

telllence mater tal

E3 Reas of

Condon and entended al

section or eritise spec-a!

Barrice 2

• aid to Serican co regre

santa tires ka

ra ungland are later cooperater futly

its in the Balde be

35 Head ge Controlleremy Azent Section o=

=Ish 3=eaer Services and later Directo: or

da- 30om: Bare preat reid to Anerican

orsicers for mion he

personnally assumed responsibiy*

lity in their training-

sorrectan nistry of Jefense sta

as Chief, section each, Inter 1,

Es laisor ilcer to i Eranch CSS; his dolehea-ted

cooperation with 2-2 zale possible successil 1-2

ocerations connected with lorral.

"espionage and milita?

security service ar

later assistant head s- tIlItary Security Sectior of

Iristry.

Served as liaison officer with french intelligence

services.

Bronze Star l'edal

Leaber of I.-2 unit that came into Southerr. rance

and unearthed Inportart material left behid by

Gestapo In its forner Eq in Marseille;

generally

brilliant work considerably aided X-2 in successful

operations in France®

79

---

## Page 111

14-00000

miscomm

NAME

Najor 71111am A. Salant

Allan Evans

Capt Harry A. Rositzke

sobert Reynolds

Ist It Joseph Charles

Nur Richard Ruggles

Crane Erinton

178

REA BRANCH

ACTION SAY.PI

FEASONS

Approved

Legion of l'erit

•Assigned by EOU to serve in lediterranean as

adviser on strategic

targets to 15th AF and l'AAr,

helped familiarize ai. staif personnel at inar ano

gEto Af with intelligence aspects of strategic

•bonbing, particpated

in draftirz of operational

directives, advised on target selection, achieved

•notable increase in coordinatior. of stratezic

helped develoy new targets, belged Increase

tonget intelligence to moro, layed active part

In 01l offensive, varzets Gumittee.

serTed as Secretary of leater-

ranean Strategic

Bronze Star

Approved

Tas Executive Officer of RiA London Iron 4 Oct 42

to 9 Sept 44 and Brarch Chief from 9 Sept 44

through 5 Lay 43°

Approved for

Soard realiirmeo

previous decision trat work this

TOCL

Officer does not warrant more tran TCCi.

Theater Commander's Certificate of l'erit

Approved

issisted British Foreign Office In preraring CIvil

Affairs Handbooks for Eelriun and Holland

gave

Jectures to IG Officers at trairing scrools:

was

acting Chief of PIT: lor Countries Sectien; nade

special political studies for c-5.

*.

Ur.it Cormander's Certificate Of lierit

Approved

Approved

Approved

---

## Page 112

: It Col Robert I. Boone

Shea

I Loned To Tethstock

Sgt Ilonel I•

Rapt Roy F. Cunninghar

yve It Jayne I. Fouse

rajor Richard V. LicIallen

Sat Aarca B. Stern

w/Sgt Farold L. Fader

I/Sgt Pierard Be Fellan

77

Approver:

SO ERICH - 6

Eronze Star cont.)

Jas CO 858 Lonb Sq and Depity Cormander 422 Bonb

Croup flying Carpet-bagger nissions for

3790.

Unit Camander's Certifica'e of l'erit

Approvel

Approvei

Approvel

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approves

ApproTed

---

## Page 113

14-00000

Erling Stogstad (Hort civ)

Approved

SO B-ACH: - 5

(Bronze Star conto)

greanized and led resistarce sove ent in Froms

Frovinice of Toriar; assistied

establisment of

Sub-It. Insvalg O• Eldshelm Ri: Approved

Tas Captair. or US sub-chaser sperating clandestinely

• Into Torray; sailed 2,

5,000 nautical miles to carry

CO tons of

equipment io res-stance.

James H. Cross (Am civ)

Approved

as Operations Cificer, US,

Farish Section,

drew uy operational orders

SSH2;

Ccr. briefing agentsy

etc.;

as restonsible for selectira equipment, arns anc

runitions drcoped to Danish resistance.

Ove do Bo Rise (Dan ciT)

Approved

Infiltrated Into Cerrary targian Dennar: Apr 45:

showed great perseverance and courage when did not

find contacts giver him; reacred Lubeck and on

arrival British aray gave valuable inforation on

delayed derolitions

etc.

"T/5 Watte Zaivio

set Alf I. Paulser

nt Col laurice de Reme

(Canadian Army.)

Stig

Jensen

eit. dermost?

It c01 Rodran St. Clair

apt Fleming a Plarsen

(Dan

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

stes

Approved

Approved

Fas nenber

of trit rape.

Tas menber

of Unit Rope.

as Co, Scecial Porce Detachnent, Ist Caradian Army.

Tas

Bec 510n 22

Faaniza 12n in ersay.

occupied territory urier c-sac-

i2: Chose

HIelds f3E

tears

in Dennart.

as cc

855 Bonb Sa firing Carpet Dagger missions

for stad.

Darish;

evaluated and trans=

Itted intelligence

Ter: a-ding Frou Copentagen

Stee

arecesed 1761236

(Gnar Hector sundesen

Dar.

Evy)

to ur; arrested in Seat vi

FEatured and confined

Existice. 00

Approved

"ence

Borhary cr Janisn Irrelligerce organization under

Sani holes de rech interareer:

com unications a

escare totes to omacai

arrested by testapo 555

Confined in concertraition can

until aristice. e

(t Co1) Do Jiann (arit ired) approved

Scandinarian legion,

ütilk.

76 amarded Bronge Stre ratt ass

as Deputied uttering 2a

assisted in

functionin?. o1

Froups in forway.

---

## Page 114

14-00000

SO BRETCH - 4

(Bronze Star Cont.)

Capt Roger Levy (PT Army)

ELAt

amazel Brongä- Star

Ille: Paulette Lartellere

Approved

trz.

Approved

• as nenter of It Herquet's erouD,

strafing entry blare auran reception; was bodyguard

Approved

Approved

Jany trips across Loire River to carry documents

and equinnent even after river formed front line.

CitiL'A

Awarded Burge, Fire

Se Eadeleine Arcelan

Gerard Petron (Fr civ)

(postrunous]y.

Sub-It Inge Tronase, RIN'

Approved

Approved

Approved

ajor) Jens al

Horilla

HOM ATT

eit- Namis

awarded Bange.

Lajor Arne in ErogEeT

ApprOved

Stas

Approved

Approved

Ites

Approved

ginald Bring Stas

Brillnester sent 28 ressages ard receiver Lof also

acted as asat to team cales ane contactes and

secruited resistance personnel. de

forked for ission Union for 4 nonths as head

cipher clerk:;

arrested by Cestapo, tortured but

gave no Infornation on nission; deported to Gernany®

icted as corbat guide vitr. 113 Cav Ron Sa; killed

In action mile on patrol.

Jas Captain of US sub-chaser operating clandestinely

into Horar: traveled 10.000 nautical riles ani

lelivereu 55 tons of Allied equipment to men in tre

field.

Torerian Section F0 W.

SPRO; Faro

SPecialized equinment z5s tormegian orerations,

helned plan and executs operation that are zossible,

Du drops ato torte.

Tas cher,

Merican,

Tonnegian Section Sire; cor-

ceived idea of establishing

nission in Sweden.

set un anc mas CO of field base near Dozo: carrie

out sabotare action that destroyed 2 Ter=/ boat:

used by cersans to traretort troops.

as rescuate for erration and adoration ol

glandestire sea routes between norway and Sweder as

niemhen of statt or Besistance

and Sabr taze

Chief In

os1o area; arcanized ari directed hiphir afrective

maritine

IntellIgence

SEPTice Thich gave

renorts

on

vombings. of bernan

ports,.

etc.

---

## Page 115

14-00000

" Jens C. Jauge (l'or civ)

Cit: 182264

awarded Detain Star:

Carl E.

andersen (Ban cir)

Approved

Approved

SO BRUICH - 3

(Silver Star

conte?

Occunied inportant position in Lowerian resistarce

In micr. Jas very active coortrating seststance

activities nith straterie plansi operates for entire

period o. arras occuration under cover, baling

•o trits to londor; jas restonsirle for coorchia-

Bion and accutior of la-zest consolidated act of

Approved

antic silkie Her

*i Fare (Dan cir)

Approved

осії

eit linnaste

aimarded kilnes: Start

Biogens Langballe (Dan civ)

Approved

Eit Lenarten tine

Approved

anasted sinister:

Capt Robert E. Coon

bing. Marie Te Arcelin

74

Approved for

TCCH

Approved

nailore are; placed all operations to reep ra--

roads

which resuated in destruction

•.ES SECON"

in comand of mists Cang": orgarized

and Faintered co Tier routes for nassare or agerts

used be at intellence ard fe:istance -overents:

contributed to

success or Lost sabotage Planning and

freavent:

a particinated rirself.

was Cheer di railiay Sabotare Group i, *ok Dart In

all attars, led autack azanst Gestajo force

removinE, ares froM underercund depot in salborg,

killing

and pourinE 10. Cermans. 00

was chief of rater sabotaze in Randers region or

Luttanci

Jork and accomplishents comparable to

that of fare in salborg area. de

Founded and led sabotage group olger Daisre, wrica

cerrito on sabotage on large scale i

Icaced to free

to Suader. early 125

returned Denmart sue 44

althouge Tell. mon to Gestaro, agair. forced to

leave bit returned In Aur, 4 to orrarize and train

sabotare

TOUpS; CErried out srectacuiar attacks of

Important objectives. be

Bronze Star

Tas Assistant Suboly Officer and Supoly ifficer,

SO.

Position does not seen to narrant more tran TCCi.

Worked fer Hission Union, providing shelter for

Allied parachutists and airen in own hone in

particularly dangerous area of France.

---

## Page 116

George Janik (Fr civ)

fit Col) R1chard F

Feslop

brit any

so manded Silver Star

Approved

Approved

It Jacques Bourlier (Fr Arry) Approved

(It Coz) Geor je ?

Stars.

Approved

Grit Army)

=amasdid tilver Star

(Cat) Jacques robert. (BE AEy) Approved

"1bLt leif As Larsen

Approved

73

SC BRANCH - 2

Silver Star

In previous nirutes this reco-rendation reported as

approved for Erorze Star.

In reallty it was for

Silver Star-aul

Witer one mission in France,

; captured by the enemy

and escare to anglara,

volun eated Tor, second Fission

In oct 49; taracruted in criter storas into

Faute Savoie Dent as British se-resertative oi a

ATiled Mission to orzanize ragus arous; returred

to Englant surer s4 agala vene to irance 20 sua

carried cut zany sabotare actions against railroads

and

tall veerira charts; nes are sa

ZISEE tO receiTe

davIlaht sarchuting; vas resconstble for first

landing bi

Dakota aircraft in France.

operated

with redburgh tear. alec to disorganize

enery units atteipting to cross loire Fiver; took

part in receptions of equirment to are 3000 men in

first part of Aug s4; participated in ambushes

against enery troops resulting in killing average of

50 Cermans a day; led brilliant action against enemy

convoy•

Larded on Southern French coast in 1522 and organized

rougs eztending thru 6 derartments:

established escare Tine across rance-ranish

Frontier alone mich larse nuber Derican airren

well-mom

to enery. 00

arachuted into rance in june 44 t125 115320n

serganotte, organized raquis of 30e wrich Ma

commelled to discerse tentorari iotaring attac

by 12,000 énery traors; refories tis roups fric

ur icted nunerous Tosses

ras srinper of totor lishing vessel ard 5o of u

sub-chaser operating to Norwegian resistarce; in

43 successfully towed two one-san torpedoes

through Gerran shore guard to te used against enemy

battleship; from 1943 to 45 went on

4I successful

missions " core than 2000 hours and about 25,030

nautical niles; Infiltrated 45 agents and brought

out over 100 refugees.

---

## Page 117

NAIE

It lax Larus

MaJor Petzuster Ort12

"cluster)

Lajor Clat In Llypan

72

ACTICE FAYEN

REASONS

Distinpuished Sersice Gross

Approved

was in crarge of shi: ping

sabotage in Horray; fr

orilalant action at extrene rise to himself he

sani: the 12,010-ton German troopsi ip Donau carrying

1500 soldiers and several hundred cars, at sare time

inflictir? serious darage to another shin vitr

several hundred troops aboard; played imortant

part in successful attack on storage derot of

lesserschnidt fighters and engires at Korsvola In

-IsIc, destroying 25 figaters and 150 engines.

Approved

LEvY CrOSS

Parachuted Into France and organized resistance

activities in region where was nom

to Gestapo;

unile on one mission mas surrourded in villaze of

Centron and in order to save village surrendered

hinsell and patrol; subjected to nurerous interro-

gations, held in Pil carp until Ilberation by Eritish

forces•

IeRion of Kerit

Approved

Was head of Ion Countries Section, SFHQ and head of

Kissiong

Brussels: entrolled

Approved

secret oberations ir. these court-tes.

This reco terdation ves returred for rewriting to

- exphasize direct connection with U. S.

Instruction

compiled sith and recorrendation approved.

---

## Page 118

14-00000

Ist It Joseph Gould

Capt Farry A. Positzie

<d

2d

It Carl A Auerbach

It Stuart Levine

71

Approved

Approved for

ECCL.

SI ETLICH - 2

(Fronze Star conte)

Served as CO of Lilaulee training school and was

in ciarse of "Tool

Series" projects.

Held over from previous neeting®

Board reaffirned

Its decision that wor': of tris orficer does not

varrant more than ICCI.

Unit Cornander's Certificate & l'erit

Approved

Approved

---

## Page 119

14-00000

SIBRANCH

ACETON TALEN

REASONS

Distinsulshed service Cross

/ Rudolph Karl (Gern civ)

Approved

Tas menber of lure team that parachuted into Redoubt

Friedrich Jammerhiru (Ger ci)Acroved

Tas chief of luze tean.

Leston of "erit

for Alfred summ

Approved

Returned to Branch for rewrite at previous meeting.

After spectacular underground work in France for

LORA

was assimed to DGER andcollaborated with ST

on irdgo Fian, recruiting agents and tra'-ing then

for operations in Germany.

Hajor Rodolphe C. Loescicer

Approved for

B3L

After two years underground nork in Praice,

particisated in Anisia camoalen

for V Corys and

12th Afr Subport Coriande

hain from Corsica: into France: Iron dan 44 Diarrec

and helved orgarize chains in France; 1= Oct

was in charge of planning recruiting and briefing

agents for joint operations into Germarge

Emit Konhauser (Germ civ)

cit. leman

..awarded Silver star

Approved

Silver Star

Parachuted tuto fat shut reston of cesary, onerated.

In Landshut without legal cover, mase

contacts during last of nice sas berreen German

and American argurtery fire: sent in carsiderable

Intelligence on trops and train novenests and on

•cIty's derenses.

Bronze Star

ipt Pierre Escot (FT Arry) Approved

Tas Important nenber of staff of. Ist Airborne Fask

70

Iron L'ajor Jones.

---

## Page 120

3007

OSTICE C3

UNITED SEEDS

IRATESI

302053

J30FB6.

FLER

AFO 337

8 august 1945

SUBJECT: Lizites of leeting of Arards & Decorations Ecard, 14 Aug 45.

TO

• See Distribution.

Whe meeting

convenes at the call of the Fresident at

2. Present were:

It Col C. C. Zornar

President

Lajor Eoger

Javid

I. Ordr C. Freles

I Stanler.

"olberg

It Ira E. Farsons

Recorder

See attachment for disposition of recommencasions for

3.

awards.

40.

The meeting acgourned at 2345 hours 14 augus: 1945.

Sratt ransores

IRA R.

IL-SONS

20 Lit

ATS

RecorCer

Incl:

Survey o° Board Recomendations.

DISARIBTE:

Commandine deficer, sParta

Commanding

cificer,

053/London

Colonel J

= Forgan

It Col. C. C. Forman

Riscellareous Section, Adjutant's Office

Citations Board,

Tasington

Secretaria,

Hashingta

Each Brarc: Concerned

FIle

69

---

## Page 121

NAUE

Ist. Sgt liartin V. Drew

W/Sgt Loren D. Squtre

ADJUTANT'S OFFICE

ACETON TAKEL

Approved for

TCCI

REASETS

Brard had previously taken action on this recon-

mendation

and reaffirmed its earlier decision.

Theater_Con…nde?"g Certff"cate Of Fit

Approved

Tas Chief Clerk, Eijutant's Office, London.

---

## Page 122

HEDICAL

WAVE

S/Sgt Lewls E. Young

S/Set Abe Yaches

Captain 71111an 1. Joseph

Captain Robert J. Boehm

5..Tfctor J. D1 Rocco

SERVICES BRANCH

ACTION TAKEN

Unit Colmander's Certificate of lierft

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

RFASOLiS

6.7

---

## Page 123

Sgt Daniel Gilbert

Sgt Ricard Clas-

SP TE) Edtarú i. 305

+ %c

David Deaver

Ist

Sgt willian d. Jack

Fic

Andre

I. Villere

Set Saran Lorris

Miss Largare Lott

Sgt Ious Cardinale

Fut (ech abel E. Carle

J'iss Eileen

Schunaker

;2/e Richaru D. Eltram

Iss Susan Tully

Ist It Josen: ne

AugelIo

Ffs Stuart To Bocluell

T/Sgt

Ist It Richard To

Cutier

Kiss

Let TarTA man

ater

"Iss Edith Rising

at Jonn..

Phillirs

2d It Joseph f.

IcCrindle

Faul He

Ursin, IT•

Hiss SophieD.

Egloff

Eduin ll. Terrell

John. H. Hadley

7. - 2 BRANCH - 3

Theater Co-zander's Castificate Of l'erit (conte)

AFFroved for

¡las in charge of collating Infornation on enemy

[CC:

agents at large with outstanding results.

Unit Comarderis Certificate of Merit

Approved

Francis Kalnay

Approved

1/3 FInnie i. Tarrison

Approved

T/4 Steghen D. Mirale

AFaroved

liss Frances P. Lac herson

roved

(Erit civ)

roved

Dr. Henry De Jorda':

moved

T/Sgt =1111an J.

Ecod

•roved

2ã It Bergen B. Faralyea

aproved

Forard R. Coan

Miss Helen E. Ostan.

Approved

Cant Henry P. Hartin

¿garoved

Approved

Approved

acaroved

APPROVEL

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

argroved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

ADErOTed

Approved

Approves

Approved

Approved

approved

Approred

Eurocean-Africar-dule Mastern Cannalen Abbon

Approvedbo

Was merber of T-force attached to 6 AG fron 21 Feb

1945; lived under conbat conditions with forward

troops until aristice.

66

---

## Page 124

14-00000

Johr Faldron

(Cant)alaude®

Ce, Frase

i Tendish

1155 Setty do Lusior

2d It Sidney F. Lenington

sailores (7 am.

ductingles

•2d It Eugene "e Taith

Captain ange it a toner

Ens. Joseph i!. Roland

65

Bas

ToR BRAlCH - 2

Theater Corner.

Jer's Cestificate o verit

Was De uty Chief c° Assessment Section of SCI ar

Room;

tre section supervised hardling of arrested

enemy Intelligence versornel, briefing of all

initial and subsequent interrogations and aarised..

on ultrate disposition so these pricerors.

MarraTed

Aproved

Aproved

Aproved

n demarel gave cutstanitar cooperation.

Jas scoretary for various cI units ir France:

assued responsibility of officer and helped carize

8ôth SCE Unit; did administrative work with ability

and Intelligence.

ias case officer

with ilth SCI Unit; operated

controlled enemy agent rèsulting

arrests c

other agents; led to iilling of leading enemy

_agent.

JaS Chief DE BrendA Zone Bureau, dana cansideratle

hein to erican so1 officers, greatis facile:

their TorE.

as asst to chier of intelligence section of ta;

• gave

particutar telp to american SCI dificers

warning

them

in zivance of intended molice activity

whieh right

deosarsizo

success of their operations.

Has Case officer

and aise to Chief of Controlled

nemy ¿cent Secticr

SCI;

controlled an importart

enemy arent and merlaced

the section chief wher the

latter was absent.

Arzroved

ApITOved

Appraved

ApEroved

Weekly Report at iCI Comand; this report servei

CIB staffs to

kee? then arvised of prosecution of.

all cases and

energ activities.

was asst to Director of 03:

In ilgiers there vcried

closely Fit: her ems;

Tater in similar position

continied this note in paris.

Yas Case ciTicer

In 3tss CT Har Room; tras in

complete charge of assessment and case work relating

• to captured enemy sabotaze

personnel.

---

## Page 125

14-00000

NAI E

7 - 2 3 2 M CH

REASONE

Legion of l'erit

as Director Gere.al of British Special Services. 0o

2-2 ArMY

discarden

Ans monumes Beas of co Section of Eritish Special Sercase

ipprared for

Tas Head of SCI Trits in France.

BSL:

Approved

citistrinis

eit.U'K

aminded Bronge Stas

Capt Charles G. Michaelis

Approved

/ Ist It Daniel D. Funter

(te col) George - goung

army

aust fange Star

Put Alphonse Zirner

64

Approved

ADcroved

Bronze Star

sla-restine

occuration and a?

Tiberation was regional diractor

of D5:

Jame

Shored outstanding cosJera-

inrele

inter teet

00

was senior British represert-

ative at

• Joint

assened to

ts as intér-

rogator:

¿buehr

person. et

HaS

Case CiTiece 3:

1-2 Double gent section; tris

reconcendation previously arcroved for ICC."

reconsidered and approved

for BS'' after consultation

with I'r. Fearson®

"as in charge of Faris Civilian Interrogation

center: this recorrendation previously approved

TCCi: but recensidered and approved for BS after

consultation with ir.

Pearscr.

Fallen lee afficer to grease

ora: car-in-Charge of Sci unit,

BrItish

Occular and gored outstanding esopenetr

Approved

---

## Page 126

SO ERMICH

BrOr:ZE

Star

(contio)

S/lt. John Letellier

Approved

Eeconnoitred energ position in the Avranches-st Io

area and

subaitted

zaluable

and detalled report;

later attached to 125th Cat Acn Sq and seriousi

sounded 1r actich; recoruerantion supported by

letter Iro: CoLOnE-

coranding 115th Cav CD.

Amedee Limnees (ar firenan)

posthunousig

Approved

Carried cut cars successil transport and liaison

Fissions for It Zeugron; tool part ir sabotage

Moroved*

Aprroved

19 sa ding one fetie, be and later ree same

-251t10n1112

Tas Plannine Citicer an

¡Bree officer of lester:

European DiFieterate sin Sens and later ASst. Chief

on start card

Fursau CE

Approved

Tes herd of ile'sor 5501105

as Orerations and Can ly CIficer. British,

05 0 32, or san Section, Scandinarien

dim suitrize star

Region sipectorate, a6v.

Approved for

as ixecutive Olice:, inerican, Scandinavian Fezion

rajor) Peterhouglas (rit

TCC:

Directorate, SP:•

Approved for ICO:

as Operations (rilcer, British, Heregian

Et Col Jack I Dickerso:

Disapproved

Tas CC,

for Robert

in Stroud

Approved

-Jes Erec Officer are later CO Area Fo

(jajor Hosena kiancon

Approred

Ties Flannirg Officer, Eritish, Horvegian Secticas

Capt

Fenry to Cossard

Arproved

supply suo section, air Gos Sect10ngg5i%

Capt Robert C. Coon

Approved for

Reconnerdation resutritted urgirg arproval for

TCC

however, Board reaffirned its previous decision.

63

---

## Page 127

feet in

Ense Fancy Wake (FAIY)

Approved

Et Coz) Irancis C. A.

"Ca-aerts Approved

CitIl'A

S1lver

star (cont

Parachuted Into France Apr 44 and took active

part

in organizing l'ayuls grouys; took heroic part in

operations against eneny®

Infiltrated Into France lar 43 and built up saouds

groups to sabotare line co runication, etc. mith

(cajor) Vernen E. 1on*leld

Approved

éitick.

waited Situes Star

Gabriel Avez (Er civ)

Albert Boutrele

(Fr CiT)

Gabriel Rouillard (E cir)

Henri Bertoat (5r civ)

Francis Pelletier (Fr cir)

Gabriel Vilmart (Fr civ)

#aul Pillois (FT gendarme)

Col Enute J. Falck

I/5. Fernard I.

T/5. Eddie 0. Sondeno

T/3 Robert Ne Anderson

T/5. Gerald Ottersland

m15 leif I. leland

smogt Crygyve Ferge

S/Sgt Edward E. KJelness

lst It Blain E.

:T/5, Johannes S. Rorvick

6.2

Approved for

TCCE

Approved

Approved

er Gestazo mad escared. ee

erganoete mission and orcertzea exticient macul

rOuD wich was dianarsed or enery troops; reog

canizes nes troup and led it in reveated attaces

Thich resulted in estanated 1000 enemy casualties.

Bronze Star

All these individuals were recruited by Capt

Basset in France and although

they did valuable

work for the group the Board felt that they monda

have

engaged in resistance sork with or without

American encouragement and therefore do not verit

an Anerican medal.

Recruited by It lartin in France and acted as his

bodyguard;

transported equinment; took

part in

sabotage operations.

A21 these individuals mere OG's tho parachuted into

successfully accornlishing their mission,

and cater lert as cart or the Rype Unit to lorray,

being lost when their plane nas

forced down in the

sea.

All these anards are therefore posthumous.

---

## Page 128

NARS

(Capt) Gunnar sonsteby

eit: Hanung

* anurdled. OsC

SOBRANCE

ACTICE TAOL

REASONS

Distinguished Jervice Gross

Approved

Tas Chief agent and underground in Oslo under

direction oi stig; from Jar. Du was it comelete

contrel of all clandestine work in tris aridi

per sorally led inportant sabotaze oberations:

resulting in destruction o. appreciasel numbers of

important arus factories, a sepot of. 250,000

Major Ielf Ironstad (Nort Army)Approved

(posthinously)

(ta for) Henry He

macithmalte Approved

(Brit hrny)

wasded Silver Star

ene Denarca or ci

Approved

posthumously

(Capt) Pierrchosenthal (5 my) Approved

(ast) Jack B. ayes (Brit dry) Approved

awarded dience fte

Silver Star

ras staff officer of SFHQ; planned irportant

sabotare attacks painst a orgated paclues to

Including the

protect power plants in forway: parachuted into

Norwar in October 44 and versonall

carried out

such

plans; was shot and killed 11 Warch 45 mile Inter-

rogating a quisling sherifi.

Hes British member of first inter-allied mission

sent to urganize resistarce in France: Orgarized

grour of 9000 men which carried out der-to-dar

sabotage activities ever

thorph it was noim bo

enery and actively cursued: returned to iondon in

Lav as and held Inbortant.

Sinistratire position:

Vas second-In-command of bore Bureau.

was asst to Lieut. Larti. although Inown to Gestapo;

showed great courage in transporting eauipment;

killed on one such operation.

Paracuted into France Oct 43 as marber o? inter-

mattled pission to laguls; orgenized and led raguis

forces in operations resulting

In destruction @t 56

Tocrate into ace fire, votine closely 1

w1th It Bable

Parachuted into ¡ormandy 10 July 44 to oscaniza

Heinsmas Circuft: dispatcred over so azents tom

Ines with Intertigence.

---

## Page 129

14-00000

FAZ

Jacques Soustellet

SIBRANCE

ACTION TAIRATi

REASONS

Distinguished Service 'edal

• Approved

Previous reconnendation for legion of lerit returned

from Ussar because Il' carnot be avarded to civilians.

In view irsortance

of tras Individual It ras

decided DS:

• was justified®

Approved

scarted. Silicistar

Silver Star

Parachued into germany 21 ian 45, orgarined chains

estabi and Minsely

In Forzheim as asst manager of

factori;

ontamed erenstion fron maltar seryace,

permission to travel, orzarized recertion comittee

for fuses caracutines; then Eforzher destroyed

by airit risied life in vain attem to save

dis coLaent; continued to worle, part of tire in

Certen i liara, tice arrested anci

escaper; came

tor lares and save valuacle intelligence to illied

arries. .00

ng That in Scale tch

Approved

Approved

(va for) George Ze

aditi coe Star

Approved

(Grit iray

BROlizE Star

Mas ixec Officer of SI.

Was Deruty to Director of Organization of Re-Educa

tion cars in 1. Directorate in un;

Hion zeue It rossilie to infiltrate

As soon t

for briefing agents.

to setter are on cer apest of sezaucation

Has deicer-in-Charre 2

olitical Intellence Dept of British nar

office;

sane as above.

INEt 452132

INTE MYTITTE SERENIT

Lesion of lerit

proved or mean deceatien; board re-

• affirred its previous decision.

--60

---

## Page 130

306.o

EQ & H2 BETACHICA

• 05ZICE 0F

STRATEGIC

=2:2382s

Fili

UNITED STATES FORCES SURGE. Al

FEAR

APO 837

22 August 1945

SUEJECT: Inutes of leeting of Avaris & Decorations Ecard, 21 duE 45.

TO

• See Distribution.

The neeting was convened at the call of the President at

2000 hours 21 Argust 1545.

2. Presert were:

awards.

It Col C. C. Eornan

President

Kajor Homer Derio

It

Stanley Il. Folberg

It Ira E, Parsons

Recorder

See attachment for disposition of recommendations for

The neeting adjourned at 2400 hours 21 August 1945.

IRA F. PASSONS

• 2d Lt

AUS

Recorder

Incl

Survey of Board Recormendatives.

DISTRIBUTIOE:

Cornanding Officer,

OSS/Paris

Corranding OffIcer,

oss/London

Colorel J. R. Forgan

It Col C. C. Sosnan

Miscellaneous section,

adjutant's Office

Citations Boare, lashirgtor

Secretatiat concerned

washington

Each Branch

Fle

59

---

## Page 131

SONÉDENTI

SI BRANCH - 2

W1111am J. Gold

S/Sgt Grendolyn " Edwards

Gy Sgt In. H. Blder

UCCH

OCCH

UCCH

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

HOTE:

DSC

I. o1 H

DFC

AM

SS

BSM

UCCH

Distinguished Service Cross

Legion of Merit

Distinguisted Flying Cross

Air Ledal

Silver Star

Bronze Star Hedal

Unit Commander's Certificate of Herit

58

CO:NIDENTIAL

---

## Page 132

14-00000

SORFIDEMIL

SURVEY OF BOARD RECO AENDATIONS

• SI BRANCH

LANS

3r

Sgt Leon Adrian

It Col Kenrth T. Downs

S/It Jehan de Crequy

S/Lt Jacques LeRoyer

BAt Jann orter (oi)

Sgt William G. Tisser (Dutch)

Sgt Cornells

_de Trios (Dutch)

Capt Andre Cornut (Fr)

2d It George le

Schneider

Sgt N. A. Puntnan (Dutch)

Charles Berg (Lazen.)

Sgt i. Choinic: (Pol)

Nr. Anton Schrader (Dutch)

Capt Emile Var Dyck (Bel).

It francois Flour (Bel)

Sgt Jozef Gawor (Pol)

Set Jozel Czogousis (Pol)

Ist Lt Calhoun Ancrun •

Lt Jean M. Nater

Capt Victor J. Layton

Major Trafford P. Klots

Major Charles Katek

Lt Andre Durand (ET)

S/Lt, ATain Guillou (Fr)

Lt Ceorges Cordeau (Fr)

Lt Col Charles C. Bownan

Sgt Jozef Celer (Pol)

Ist It Anthony Turano

Sgt * Czarnecki (Pol)

Set Zbignien Gulas (Pol)

Sgt Leon Gorski (Pol)

L. SOZOLOTSKI (Pol)

Lt Col Joseph Dasrer

Ipt Enile Schouver (Fr)

RECOL WENDED 30R

DSC

L. of M

IO11

SS

SS

3

S

33

SS

SS

SS

D

AX

ALE

BSH

BSU

BSE

BSU

ESH

BSL

BSM

BSL

BSZE

B3L

BSH

ISL

BSA

BSW

BSM

It (j8) H. H. Proctor

It Bernard Duval (Fr)

-Sgt George F. Usher

Bet Z. Strzelinsi POL

BSU

sgt Jan Pradzinsid (Pol'

BSH

S0 Idr Cautrey Shaw (RAF)

BSM

GD Capt V. J. Sofiano (RAF)

3SM

N/Sgt S. Je Hunde

BSH

con90=57142

ACTION TAKEN

Approved

Approved

Aperoved

Approved

ADDroved

Arproved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Apprvee

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

minica toura e1wa

---

## Page 133

DOTFIDEITIAL

SURVEY OF BOARD RECO:ZENDATICAS

S I BRATICH

NALE

Sr

Sgt Leon Adrian

It Co. Kenreth T.

Downs

CoLeto la Estel

5/it zecan de Crequy

S/Lt Jacques Lejoyer

Sgt espmant orlowicz

Set T1111am G. Tisser (Dutch)

Sgt Correlis de Frios (Dutch)

Capt andre Cornut (Fr)

2d It George li®

Schneider

Sgt H. A. Puntran (Dutch)

Charles Berg (Lazer.)

Sgt #. Chojnick:i (Pol)

Mr. Anton Schrader (Dutch)

Capt Baile Van Dycis (Bel)

It Francois Flour (Bel)

Sgt Jozer Gavor (Pol)

Sgt Jozef Czogowski (Pol)

Ist L: Calhoun incrum

Lt Jean H. Nater

Capt Victor J.

Lagton

Major Tafford ? Rlots

RECO: 1ENDED 702

DSC

I 0f 1

S/LE Zain Guillou

(ET)

It Georges Cordean (Fr)

It Col. Charles C. Borman

Sgt

Jozef Celer (Pol)

Ist It Anthony luano

Sgt T. Czarneckd (Pol)

Sgt

zoignier Golab (Pol).

Sgt Leon Gorski (Pol)

Major John G. Eayes

SEE J. L. SOKOlOSKI (Pol)

It Col Josenh

De Srer

It Baile Schouver (Fr)

Uta 9859e

L (J3) R. R. Proctor

It Bernard Duval (Fr)

-Sgt George F.

Tsher

Sgt % Strzelinskl

(POl)

Bet Jan Pradzynsid (Pol)

Sq Idr Cautley Shaw

(RAF)

Cp Capt V. J. Sofiano (RAF)

M/Sgt S. J. Rundt

SS

SS

SS

SS

S

S

ARAG

S

SS

SS

SS

SS

DFC

AN

AIA

BSY

BSL!

BSH

BSU

BSLE

BSU

BSH

BSU

BSU

BSU

BSH

BSL

BSL!

BSU

BSH

BSH

BSH

• BSH

BStA

BSH

BSH

BSL

BSH

BSM

BSM

CONFIDESTIAL

ACTILY TALEN

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Aproved

Approved

Approved

Aproved

Approved

Aproved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Iisapproved

Approved

Approved

Apprved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Appreved

Approved

Approved

Approved -

"Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

---

## Page 134

SURVEY OF BOARD PECOUZENDATIONS

MO BRANCH

RECEIENDED FOR

NAUR

It Col Stacy Lloyd

Hr. Johan Koershuis (Dutch

Civ)

Kro Fowar? Baldwin (Am CIv)

I/Sgt Charles Kebbe

JiT. Stefan Scinabel

Kr. Herbert i.

то во STCer с несет

IT toward BEC-eT

p1. Rudi eise

"V?. Hans J. Pehfisch

Capl. Carl & Selby

SS

BSE

OCCL

UCCI

UCCH

UCCH

UCCH

UCCEE

UCCh

UCCH

OCCIE

ACTION TAKA

Returned

Approved

Approved

Returned

Returned

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

BSH

UCCE

Legion of Merit

Silver

Star

Bronze Star Medal

Unit Commander's Certificate of Merit®

56

CON

FIDENTIAL

Train

---

## Page 135

14-00000

CCUFIDERTIAL

SURVEY OF BOARD BECOIIENDATIONS

S O BRANCHE

RECCLIESHDED FOR

HALE

Maj Gen Colin LeVean CLEBINS

(BRIE)

Col Sir Charles FANERO (Brit)

Group Capt®

P. WOOD (Brie)

L

iLt Col Williar 7. i. Raz (Brit)

It Col Fuch 1. Saunders (Erit)

It Col George 3. Breter

It Eenri Bouchard

SS

Cdt Gilbert Brisac

ESL:

Col Jean de Crezelles rajel)

Ist LE Edrard A. Dickinson

BS:

BSM

of 1

(Comnander)

01

(Cormander)

of

(Officer)

1: (Officer)

01 I

(Officer)

NOTE:

I of K : Legion of Merit

SS

BSk.

Silver Star

: Bronze Star Meda).

ACHION TAKEN

Arproved

Aperoved

Approved

Approved

App-oved

Approved

Approved

Aprroved

Approved

COIPIDENTIAL

---

## Page 136

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL.

SURVEY OF BOARD RECOIEMLATIONS

SCHOOLS & TRAINING BRATCH

NAME

T/4 Buford C. Crowder

I/Sgt Bernard L. Greene

Sgt. Orpha J. Gresham

Capt Francis

Eekking

Capt Joseph Vona

Pfe Joel E. Allen

RECSILEN DED FOR

-UCCL

BSI

BSL:

ESM

BSI

UCCH

It. Arthur Simon

Pot Barry R. Ellison

UCCH

NONE:

CCChi:

Unst Co-rander's Certificate of l'erit

BSH :

Bronze Star Nedal.

ACFION TAPSK

Approved

Returned

Returned

Returned

Returned

Held

Disapproved

Disapproved

5%

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 137

NAME

The David La-Rui-

T/3 Paul K. Wallace

T/4 Thomas T. Callbeck

Sgt Harvey W.

Olsen

Sgt J. R. Work

M/Sgt Howard S. Glover

Hajor C. B. Ince

Lt. Col J. E.

V111s, (Brit)

Col F. T. Davies (Brit)

Kajor A. C. Carr

(Brit)

Ist L+ A. H. Vellenan

Mrs. Griselda P: Nertineau

Capt C. Crocker, Jr.

Capt T. P Palmer

Capt Carl A Strahle

Major Robert Mclay

Major Jack Rudolph

Major C. H. Edwards (Brit)

SONFIDENTAL

SUrVEY OF BOARD RECOMDNDATIONS

B& B BRANCH

& D.

BRANCE

RECOLZKENDED POR

UCCH

UCCHI

UCCH

UCCH

UCCI:

UCCH

UCCM

UCCH

UCCLI

UCCLI

UCCH

UCCH!

UCCM

UCCH!

UCCM

UCCH

UCCH

UCCH

ACTION TAYE

approved

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

Held

'Feld

Held

Held

Held

Note:

Those listed abore

as

"Held" will not be acted upon by the

Board pending a statenent of policy on avards and decorations by

the Branch chief.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 138

14-00000

CONF DENT.

SURVEY OF BOARD RECOMMENDATTONS

DIRECTORS OFFICE

MALE

RECOLL ENDED FOR

Maj Gordon LivIlE

It William J.

CASEY (USTE

Inacifve) 'I of M

Norman H. PEAPSON (Am CI7)

Lt Col John A. BROSS

Tal Georre H. ANDREWS

Chandler HORSE

Ches tenrtetta carter

BS

BS

BS.

B8

BS

TCCI!

ACTION TAKI

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

ApEroved

Returned

NOTE:

DSC

: Distirguished Service Cross

Loft.

• Legion of Merit

BS

; Bronge Star ledal

TCCH.

Theater Conmander's Certificate of Kerit®

52

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 139

14-00000

HAME

K78.

Thelma Morgan

Mrs. Ruby F. Ecshane

CONE DEAL

SURVEY OF BOARD RECOLSINDATIONS

CIVILIAN PERSONNEL OFFICE

RECOIZTENDED FOR

UCCE

UCCH

ACTION TAKEN

Approved

Approved

NOTE:

UCCH: Unit Conmander's Certificate of Herit.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 140

14-00000

NAME

Capt Edward V. Malcolm

Sgt Richard F.

Flunkett

Sgt Archie B. Rainey

COFFIDENTIAL

SURVEY OF Eard -ECOULEHDATIORS

OSS HISSION TO BELGIUM

RECONSENDED. FOR

TCCH

TCCH

UCCL

ACTION TAMMI

Disapproved

Returned

Approved

NOSE:

TCCH

Treater Cormander's Certificate of Herit

UCCI : Unit Commander's Certificate of Herit.

50

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 141

- CONFIDENTIAL

SURVEY OF BOARD RECOIMEIIDATIONS

B & A BRANCH

NAME

It®

John E. Sawyer,

DENE

It.

W1111am

Spoelnof, USIR

It. Paul M. Sweezy

RECO-SENDED FOR

BSH

BSLE

BSL'

ACTION TARKN

Held

Held

Held

Note: These recommendations will not be acted upon by the Board

pending a statenent of policy on awards and decorations by the

Branch chief®

see 25

49

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 142

SUR IN OF BOARD RECOLENDATIONS

WAR DIARY

HAVE

BECCLENDED FOR

Sgt Stuart #. Ilttle

UCCI

I 1/c Thomas E. UcPadden

UCCH

2d It Edward 3. Cronin

OCCH

T/5 Harola A. Paus

[CCH

Set Kenneth k. Brown

UCCL

T/Sgt Vivian Saer VAC

UCCH

It John P. Moore Ford

USN?

UCCa

T/Sgt Truman 1.

UCCL

S/Sgt Mildred E kontgorery (VAC)UCC

Capt Anson Furling' are

UCCHI

Miss Betty J. Tylle

UCCU

Mrs. Vada I. Ryal

UCCH

: Cast John F. Denysey

Wiss Therese E. Healy (Erit)

hurlel A. King (Brit)

UCCK

UCcH

Ist It R. l. Fendleton (HAC)

ACTION TAKEN

Eeld

Held

Held

Feld

Eeld

Held

Held

Feld

Held

Feld

Held

Eeld

Eeld

Held

Note: These recommendations will not be acted upon by the Board

pending a staterent of policy on awards and decorations by the

Branch chief.

duplicate 34=

48

CORMIDENTIAL

тіт1.

---

## Page 143

HARK

Ist Sit Hartin Ve Drew

I/Sgt Frark G.

Lyers

SONI DENTITI

SURVEY OF POLED RECOISPYDATIONS

ADJUE IT'S OFFICE

RECOMASNDED FOR

SSI

BSHE

ACTION TAKEN

Held

Held

Rote:. These recommendations will not be acted unon by the Board

pending à statement of

policy on avards ad decorations by the

Section chief.

47

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 144

FICENTIAL?

HQ & HQ DETACHIENT

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

APO 887

13 July 1945

SUBJECT:

Minutes of Meeting of Awards & Decorations Board.

TO

See Distribution

The meeting was convened at the call of the President

at 2000 hours 10 July 1945.

?. Present were:

30

awards.

Lt Col- C. C. Bowman

President

Hajor H. David

Ist It S. I Holberg

2d Lt Ira H. Parsons

Recorder

See attachment for disposition of recommendations for

4o The meeting adjourned at 0030 hours 11 July 1945.

Pattersons

IRA F. PARSONS

2d 1t

AUS

Sp A/s officer

Inel:

Survey of Board Recommendations®

DISTRIBUTION:

Cormanding Officer, OSS/USFET A

Adjutant

CItations Board, Washington

Secreteriat, Hashington

Each Branch

Concerned

Mile

16

CONFIDENTIAL

JUL 17 PA.!

---

## Page 145

14-00000

Matellio

NAME

Col J. Ro Forgan

Ir. Gerald E. Miller

It Col Robert E. Alcorn

lafor Thomas I. McCoy

NT. Roderick I. McKinnon, Jr.

Ilajor Ezra shine-

Col Donald lo Coster

Ist It Stanley li. Holbert

"It Char C. Do G. Brech

DIRRCTOZIS OFFICE

ACTICH TAKEN

Distinfuished Service L'edal

Approved

For service fros i January to 20 June 1945-

Bronze Star Medal

Approved

For service as Chief, SO, Iron 3 November 1946

to 8 Kay 1945.

Approved

For service as Chiel: 1945.

Special Funds, STOn

I June 1943 to 8 Kay

Approved.

For service as Chief, Services Branch, OSS (Oe1n)

from 1 December 1944

to 1 June 1945.

Approved

For service as Chie:, Security Branch, OSS (Jan)

fron 1 December 1944

to 8 Lay 1945.

Approved

Man on as other shoot 8 ray 1943..

Approved

CO of OSS Mission to Belgiun.

Theater Commarder's Certificate of Lerit

Approved

For service with OSS Detachrent In Paris first

as Troop Conmander and later as

Assistant

Adjutant.

Unit Cormander's Certificate of l'erit

Idge

_ Approved

For service as Associate Security of OSS Detach

ment in Paris,

later

as Chief Security Officer

and Chief Security Officer for OSS/ETO.

4. 145

---

## Page 146

T/3 Panl K. Tallace

T/4 Thomas I. Callbec

Sgt Farvey i. Olsen

Sgt J. R. Tor's

M/Sgt Howard S. Glover

kajor C. B. Ince (Brit)

It Col J. E. Wills (Brit)

Major C. F. Eiwards (Brit)

Col fa L. Darles (Brit) X

Lajor do c. Cast Grit)

•Ist It Ao E. Vellenan

Urs• Griselda I. Lartineau

Capt e Croceer, Ji+

Capt 1. P. Palier

Capt Carl A. Strable

Major Robert EcTay

Major Jack Rudolph

ACTION TAKE

Init Commanderis Certificate of Herit

Disapproved

Disapproved

Disapproves

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Disapproved

"The relative verits of the persons listei above

were discussed between Colonel Boar

and Colonel Reddick and listed by the laster in the order of their contribution to the

work of the Branch. On tids basis each case was approved or disapproved by agreenente

44

---

## Page 147

14-00000

NAYS

Sgt Stuart W. Little

I 1/c Thomas E. HePadden

2d Lt Edward & Cronin

1/5 Harold A Paus

Sgt Kenneth L. Erown

I/Sgt Vivian Eaer

Lt Jein P. Loose, USNA

T/Sgt Truman E. Ford

S/Sgt Mildred I Hontgonery

Capt Anson Burlinghame

Miss Betty J. Tylle

Mrs. Vada T. Pyal

Capt John F. Hempsey

Hiss Therese H. Healy

Muriel A. King (Brit)

ist It K. Il. Fendleton (RAC)

JAB DIARY

ACTION TAKELY

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Disapproved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Disapproved

REASONS

Note: Before Colonel Forgan's action in striking out most of the names above on the

original Iist of proposed reconcendations had been brought to the attention of the tas

Diary Branch, the recomendations themselves were received.

they were discussed in

detall with Captain Dempsey and, as in the case of the ReD Branch, the Persons sen

rated according to their contribution to the work of the section.

On this basis each

case was approved or disapproved by agreesent between the Awards.

& Decorations Board and

Captain Deapsay

---

## Page 148

FAHR

Pfe Joel E. Allen

SCHOOLS & TRAINING SRANCH

ACTION TAKEN

REASOLIS

Unit Cormander's Certificate Of Merlt

Approved

Held over for further clarification from

previous meetin? and approved only after

consultation with Captain lann and lajor

Shine.

42

---

## Page 149

14-00000

EAN?

Ens. Henry Brodie, USNR

It. Leinard S. Wilson, USNR

2d It lat Loeb

Ist It Jear-Jacques Edwardes

JEns. Robert L. Coffin

Dr. Rhea C. Blue

It Cmdr Dwight Baker

R&A BRANCH

ACTION TAKEN

REASONS

Theater Cormander's Certificate of Merit

Approved

Participated In early work on estimating

German munitions output and for outstanding

leadership to field tears operating under

hazardous conditions against pressure of

time In the collection of documents and

intelligence of value against the enemy in

the Far East®

Unit Commarder's Certificate of Merit

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Approved

ро. с сой рой за ґадин.

---

## Page 150

14-00000

canale

КАКи

Stefan Shhnabel

Ist

Sgt Charles M. Kebbe

NOBRANCH

ACTION ТАК

Approved

Approved

Atti 49

---

## Page 151

NAIE

Earl A. Kyers

Pay Clerk

USNR

IVILIA: PERSONNEI BRANCH

ACTION TAMEN

Hau semendation sible

Approved

---

## Page 152

14-00000

T/Sgt John Y. Inholt

Capt Him C. Asheraft

Major A. B. Griffin

Capt H. P. W. Christiansen

Capt Ilking Yethi

Ist Lt Louls

Feldsan

T/3 Frank Po Platrick

•Ist Sgt Farry

GunD

T/3 Everett P. Alford

* M/Sgt Fa. I. Farrell

WOJG Arthur H. West

Ist It G. W. Kerrode

PIc Rudolph Marinacet

Sgt Joseph P. Bausann

Sgt

Christopher E.

Lartes

Sgt

Ernest J. lyerchin

PIC

Shirley I. Fatts

STARVICES BRANCH

ACTION TAKEN

Unit Commander's Certificate

of terit

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Disapproved

REASONS

38

---

## Page 153

14-00000

WAMS

Col Jean Marissal

*9

Capt Raymond Le Brittenham

T/Sgt Richard F. Plunkett

OSS MISSION TO BELGIUL

ACTION TAKEN

REASONS

Ierion of lerit

Approved

Bronze Star Ledal considered more appropriate

for BSu

In view of his relatively minor position 1n

OSS operations.

Bronze Star Medal

Approved

Tas in charge of opening OSS bureau in

Brussels. Recruited 18 agent teams.

Theater Commander's Certificate

of kerit

Approved for

Board consitared his general contribution to

Unit C C of M. OSS did not deserve more than the UCCH.

---

## Page 154

80 - 2

Bronze Star L'edal

(Major) Rupert Fo

Jardine (Brit) Approved

awarded Brange Star

(sa jor) Arthur Sclater (Brit) * Approved

(Capt Haaion Kyllingnark

(Norwegian)

Enta sch Prong, Star

(Cmdr.) Reloh Cheollingworth.

Approved

RIVR quasid Bunge Star

I/sgt Leir Oistad

Appruved

(ast It) Frits C!

T1111sch

Approved

Danish Army

acided Forge Star

It Col Kal G. Winkelhorn

Approved

Has British chief of SFLQ Jupply Sectione

"Cospiled supply needs or resistance grouss

"Yas" Targely

establishing

staffing

and operating

a packing

station te handle nedical equipment fer

parachuting..

Was CO of Snetland Base

Urrasized and led resistance novements In

Northern Norway. Erecuted many demolition

projects against enem; installations.

jas British chief of Danish Section 7712. 0

Parachuted by error into sweden

interned with

4 others without breaking

security of other

units on sane operation although he had codes,

signals and maps where operations in loway

vere scheduled.

Fracuated his unit to norway

• There reloined his command. Took part ir

attack on Hordland Railway®

Sent to Jutland where assumed charge bork as

chier

Intellizence, o- resistance ozzanization

for lid-Jutland and as overall Intelligence lead

for Jutland Peninsula and Island of 372.

Organized highly efficient Intelllferce

system and courier service.

Yas Chier, US, Danish Section, side

, vain, =

---

## Page 155

Robert Josthun(snish civ.) Approved

Cive)

I/Sgt Russell in Boyle

Cndr. Frederick i

G. Va

Vetlesen,

USNR

SOBRANCH

ACTION FANCI

REASONS

Distinguished Service Gross

Established Illegal communications system

between Densark and Sneden, operated many

small boats which evacuated beny resistance

nembers and brought cut such intelligence.

Personally conducted 10 Anerican flyers fron

hid then

country to Copenhages Sadey! tiled in 3

and evacuated then

to Sweden.

fight with sollce sent to arrest him at als

hone 24 July 1944.

Legion of Herit

Approved for

9SK

Approved

Did excellent work deserving Bronze Star but he -

was not in responsible enough position to

"Set Robert Fis Ia Sa110, USIC

Approved

Capt Ton Sather

Approved

-.'"Ist It Glenn J. Fernsworth

Hajor Millian Es. Colby

-sid 397352251 6070

Approved

Approved

In Norway and Dennark.

Silver Star

Parachuted Into France,

severely injured by

. static Iine but instructed maquis groups in

use of arms, ete for two reeks.

Finally

totally incapacitated and compelled to remain

In area strongly held by enemy®

Parachuted into Norway. Carried out raids

and fathered intelligence with Unit Rype. Afte

enemy raid on his HQ evacuated, wearing civilian

wounded patriot 50 kms.

"as with Capt Sather in Unit Rype. Carried out

many depolition jobs under aifficult and

dangerous conditions.

Commanded Rype Unite

35.

---

## Page 156

14-00000

" Bufard (cont.)

Capt Terneth Re. Boyle

(St) LesLe RePope (Brit.)

2004 1

Ist It Jean H. later

S1 - 3

Bronze Star L'edel (coRt.)

Penetrated Iines repeatedly to contact sub

agents and collected their intelligence.

Init Comrader's Certificate of Yerit

Approves.

In charge of Contact Office, DIP:

Approved

In charge SIS Packing Station. Helped SI

er sonne. e

Approved

(JE). Flew several JE missions, two being

operational over Germany•

34

---

## Page 157

44-00000

B/it Lucien Bureau

S/It Canille Linder

2d It Henry C. Sutton

Ist It Albert E. Jolis

2d It Lazare Tere

Major Louis Dups

Capt Robert E. 5.

8At Touls Leopolil

Sgt Wladyslaw

Turzeckd

Sgt Antoni Markotay

Set Jozer Bartoszer

Sgt Ernest Grimmel

S/It Perl Marchadier

S/it G1lbert Herant

B/It Andre Buffard

Approved

stiter Star (conte)

28/7/45

Parachuted Into France®

Arrested and released

free of suspicion.

Penetrated enemy defence

zone.

Remained for week under heavy American

artillery fire shile locating 40 ereny

batteries resulties inton descents 1o

Also

responsible for destruction 250 cannons,

ammo dumps

58 tanks many M/C nests.

Later

nfiltrated enemy lines 10 times

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Bronze Star Kedal

Made numerous mission behind eneny Iines ir

Colmar pocket. Recruited and aispatched over

40 agents.

Conceived and prepared covers for agents dis-

patched from London and briefed ther on con-

ditions in Germany, ete.

Prepared agents for VARLIN mission 1943-44.

Went to Normandy with i3t Army and pacitalized

on French trade union contacts.

was in charze

of Field Base D.

Prepared HOFEH sission.

Was In charge of Bach Section.

Prepared agents for EAGLE project and worked

as Operating assistant to Chief

DIP.

In charge of Operations office, Dif

Parachuted into Germany®

Parachuted into Germany®

Parachuted

into Germany.

Parachuted Into Germany.

Parachuted Into Germany®

Parachuted into France with Marcel mission.

Infiltrated enemy lines and Joined karcel

Led attack on heavily supported road

Women gone matte patrol tate cant

blocke

Doillon to capture a village.

Ahead of patrol

they held one house for one hour t1ll patrol

arrived.

Operated In French uniform In advance of

American troops

In northeastern France.

?3

---

## Page 158

14-06800

It (Jg) E. 1. BURKE

Hsj Gen Sir Stewart G. Menzies

Sgt Edmund Barski

BIBRANCE

ACTION TAKEN

18 July 1945

REASON

Rayy Cross

Approved

Parachuted behind enemy lines and led

patriot forces in action.

Distingutshed service ledal

Approved

Award of political nature.

Distingalshed Servico Gross

Approved

Parachuted into Germany Arrested®

Escaped Despite illness made way

to American lines with intelligence

on eneny defences.

lafor Hans V. Tofte

Pains

Legion of herit

Approved for BSM

81lver Star

Approved

• Position and accomplishments deemed

Insufficient for proposed award.

Walter Struve (German civ.)

whines

Wist soled hitnis Str

Your! Skarzynak (stateless civ.) Approved

Joseph Kappius

Approved

SAt Henri Gerber

Approved

Parachuted Into Germany. Buried

container in daylIght. Hiding 1n

to London despite big risks.

Intiltrated thru lines in Vosses.

Went to Berlin where did exceptional

work for five months.

Parachuted into Germany 1 Sept 44.

During 7 months organized underground

chains.

Pent to a Cara resen. Jane 1

Went to Baccarat region®

Iines with good info on Baccarat

defences.

Went on 4 more nissions

thru llnes, returning with good into.

---

## Page 159

3007

HQ & HQ DETACHHENT

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

UIITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

APO 887

19. J01y 1945

'SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of Awards and Decorations Board, 18 July 1945

• See Distribution.

2000 hours do July 14s.

The meeting was convened at the call of the President at

2.

Present were:

awards.

40

It Col C. C. Bowan

President

Major Eoner David

Ist It S. M. Holberg

2d It I. E. Parsons

Recorder

See attachment for disposition of recommendations for

The menting adjourned at 2230 hours 18 July 1945.

IRA H. PARSONS

20 lite

AUS

Recorder

Incis

Survey of Board Recommendations.

DISTRIBUTTON:

Commanding Offider, OSS/Paris.

Cormanding Officer,

oss/london

MiscellaneOus Sectashingtin

Adjutant"s office

Citations Board,

Secretariat,

Wawhington

Each Branch Concerned

Mle

JUL 23 PA

---

## Page 160

14-00000

RAWE

Lajor Henry Leger

Ja Walter Lord

2d Lt Carl S. Forsythe

DIRECTOR'S OFFICE

ACTTOM TAKEK

Approved for

UCCH

RZASON

Bronze Star Medal

Tas Asst Executive Officer 7th Army Det

Later

iq Commandant, served with Butler Task Force

His overall contribution does not appear to

Inst Commander's Certificate of Kerit

Approved

Approved

-30

---

## Page 161

14-00000

It Col Stacy Lloyd

NO BRANCH

ACTIOH TAKEK

REASONS

Lezion of NerfE

Approved

Headed NO field team with 12 AG. Hls general

for BSI

contribution does not appear to varrant the In.

29

---

## Page 162

ILANE

I/Sgt Iawrence W. Ingram

ACTION TAKEN

Approved

28

---

## Page 163

14-00000

NAME

S Sgt Orpha J• Grochar

T/Sgt Bernard I.. Greena

Capt Francis Hekrang-

Capt Joseph Vona

2d It Irthur Simon

SCHOOIS & TRAINING BRANCH

ACTION. TAKER

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

---

## Page 164

14-00000

NAME

LiTe Bates Compton

MIss Katherine E. Heckman

WA

ACTION TAKEN

Approved

Approved

DIARE

226

---

## Page 165

14-00000

NAVE

Capt 71221am N. Parker

Caot

Fred la Peel, Ir.

Ist It

Edward Terenbaun

Dr• Paul R. Sweet

Spr.

Saul K. Padover

Ite John Eo Sawyer, USNR

→ It 11171am Spoekhor, USNR

It Paul M, Sweezy

Pfe Irwin Fink

Ist It Joha Ra Christopher

2d It lorenz Fe A. Ertner

2d It Robert I.

Kull

Pfe StanTey Fubint

2d It

Lawls C.

Paterson

R& A BRANCH

ACTION TAKELL

REASONS

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved.

Approved

Bronze Star liedal

lade exhaustive studies in front line areas of

age composition of tanks used in Ardennes offens

Ive, estimated enemy production of tanks, ete.*

Sane as above.

One of tear of two special Interrogators of

selected German civilians to obtain Info on

political and economie conditions in Germany ana

gather biographical data on leading ternan citizens;

prepared first extensive report on Buchenrald Camp;

this entire service performed under conbat

conditions.

Directly behind combat troops gathered intelligence

from documents, etc. left behird by eneny; inter.

rogated seleuted German civilians and raze reports

on econonic and political conditions in Germany.

Fron Normandy interrogated civilians to obtain Into

on enemy and eneny-held territory, first in

Forthern France

Organized and directed staff

later In Luxerbourg and Germany®

of specialists

to

make studies of economic and social conditions in

various

regions of France.

Rade studies and reports on conditions in Holland;

was OSS Liaison Officer in Holland to SEAFF and

US Embassy®

Contributed to and later was editor-in-chief cf

European Political Report.

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Unit Cormander's Certificate of l'erit

2d Lt Leonard J. Hankin

It James Lo

Tyson

Approved

Returned for

resubaission

for BSH

25°

---

## Page 166

14-00000

JI' Codr Virginia

- Grant IsOn

Sub Hancy J. Robertson

SO PRICH (cont.) .

Init Conmander's Ce-tificate of l'erit

Approved

Approved

Jas in charge of keeping the SPEd battle map up

to date through 1944

to arristice.

Toriced closely with above during same period.

24

---

## Page 167

I/3. Odd A. Anderson

(It Col) Erran Bi sutlet

Approved

Approved

British Arty

amassed Bronze. Star

(Et Col) Ronald Hornle

spproved

BrItIsh ArDy)

auxiied Bunge. Star

Cecil Ve Albettsen (US civ) inproved for

UCCH

'Dobson

lettled fring

Louis Sebastiant

•Tert Boutene.

Ibrienayea

Sabriel Boulllard

• Gabriel ilmart

Phillope Saillard

Francis Felletier

Eent. Bertout

•Paul h111o1s.

Louls. Lallou

approved

Star

Returned

Approved

Capt Farlan R. Olson

Approved

SO BRATCH (cont.)

Was squad leader with Unit Rype. Took part in 3

atracks on railways.

Stockholn, where he

worked closely with the

corsiderably in Its Tor% on Gerany, placirg at 1ts

disposal a route for the infiltration of agents into

Germany®

Jas Denuty Pirectors later Head of the Germal.

Directorate, So; represented cod at montilz reetings

to discuss possible peretration or Cermany and

a'ded cons derably in establishirz spirit o. co-

aromation ierreen British and merican services. oc

Danish Section,

Westfield :Ission; Or-

garized "Camel" clandestine route for passage

01

directed establishment

and maintenance Of rao lin: between taeden and

Denmark; carried on liaison with Hanilcar Organiza-

Hon.

was chiel, butch secting, stage planned re-establish-

DEBE ON

contact aul puich res-stance moverent:

planned ard directed deliveries or arus

ete or

arinated a

1000 men:

Erected regotiations for

Feeding Dutch ceo: le in April 45.

00

Board felt there was no apparent particular reason

why these Frenchmen

sculd receive special recogni

tion for their work since they on were already in

France for the Resistance and merel? helped American

missions sent to aid

France.

They worked for Capt

Basset and It lartin®

Statement.

Branch requested to nase a

worked with Capt Basset. This case deened worthy o!

special recognition because in addition

to aiding in

•Operations t':is man's house mas a "safe house" for

the circuit.

Has CO, OSS Packing Station, responsible for overall

planning and execution of handling of supplies for

parachuting, developing new methods, etc.

23

---

## Page 168

14-00000

joseph I. oman

(US civ)

Approved for

UCH!

Tage F. Holst (Danieh civ) Returned

3/5 Sverge Aanonsen

I/5 Sivert windh

Approved

Approved

S/Sgt Are Fo Ilsteid

Approved

l'ajor. C. P. Mukehan-aitin Returned

• Fans Erichsen, (US cir)

It Col Fenry N. Sporborg

Returned

Returned

Approved

Col Knut Andressen

Approved

I/5 Tosten Rusdal

Approved

Approved

citien

amardei Pronze:

Star

SO EPANCH (conte)

Bronze Star liedal (Cont.)

Conducted operations ained at Germany Iron Sweden;

was responsicle for irfiltrating Birch to Berlin;

arranged for 36 German Intelligence office to be

turred over to US by Swedes.

Board considezed nore info should be had on what

decorations the Eritisn goverrment 1s are giving to

persons in tris category before passing is

recommendation.

Was Acting Supply Sergeant of Unit Rype, overcane

corsiderable difficulties in maintaining supples.

Unit Rype, Miere was designated

Parachuted by error into sweden ain man; took part

In attack on Plutten Cunnel.

Earachuted with Unit Rupe: took very active part in

unit's activitles: barticipated in attack on Plutter

Tunnel®

Branch

requested to nake statenent on personnel of

Sree Supply Section, several recommendations for

such personnel already having been

passed

Branch regrested to clarify division of responsi

bility of lestfield iission.

• Dranch requested to explain thy recormendation for

•this officer is so late.

Ves Chief, Special Crerations Erecutive, Stockholm.ou

Mas nedical ala man with Unit kype:

Took part in

attack on ferdland fy at Lurudal. later evacuated

wounded patriot to Sweden, putting on civilian

clothes.

Tas squed leader of init Rype,

parachuted by error

Into Sweder,

later rejoined Unit and took part in

attack aù luridal.

Was with Unit Rype group parachuted Into sweden®

Took rart in attack at Lurudal.

Fron 1940 to arristice organized and maintained a

CommanicatIons syster by radio rath Englandi

desIrned "telenhone beok"

radio sets,

also autonatie

Jeansintter.

Onerated In enem; held terrttory at al

times ®

22

1979

---

## Page 169

(Capt) Gunnar F.

Juncher

Approved

(British Aruy

made sites star

It Anton Jensen

Approved

(Danish Army)

2d It Horge 0. Langeland

Approved

Emile Hainault

(posthumously)

It Col Fencho As Fuet

Carl Hare (Danish civ)

Approved

Approved

Returned

T/Sgt Russell J. boyle

Hajor Eward R. Rhead

(British Army.)

Ma 10r Georgeiprentice

Approved

Returned for

further

clarification

Approved

BriEiS:

Army

citiUK

warded Pronze Ster

SO BRANCH (cont.)

S1lver Star

Has outstanding resistance organizer in Jutland.

In

1944 had 15, 000 men o. Fanized and

workinE LOT SPiRe

Actively souant by Gestano,

nad two narror escades

ten went to tr where worked of starf of are.

was in charge of organizing am hailanting

reception and districution of parachuted lateriel

In Morthern Jutland.

Lade possible arming of nore

than 10,000 men in wortr and Central Jutlard.

Parachuted into Norway with Unit Rype (In 1944 mas

wounded in action in STance after parachuting);

passed more than 50 tessages to London in sir meeks;

took part in sabotage actions.

Issistant to Capt Basset, received parachuted

materiel,

carrying messeres,

took part

in sabotage

operations.

Kilied in one such attack.

Has military leader of Vercors laquis,

saved life of

Capt Pecquet then latter became exhausted and could

not move further.

Recommendation does not make clear enough the

connection between this man's work and American

operations.

Branch requested to claify this point

and resubnit reconnerdation.

Bronze Star liedal

Previously subnitted for Legion of lerit and

resubmitted for BSI on instructions from A/D Board.

statement of policy on awards to British

SFHQ personnel In Ul! deemed advisable. a131 be

discussed with S0 in iondon.

Tas

General Staff Liaison Officer to the Cernan

Directorate, British, See.

Largely responsible for .

coordinating plans carried out jointly by SOB; SO

and SI.

Cooperated in discussions of SO& plans for

• subversive activities.

21:

---

## Page 170

14-00000

1A.12

Hennins Jessen-Scimlat

(Darish civ)

citratinmark

apprened. 70r-55.

-Bbbo kunct: (Danish Cly)_

Approved

eit: denmarke

ainarolet.oSM

(Commander) Paut orch

*

panish Navy)

chunnate

(it Col) Johand ordentert

(Danish Aray)

citick

awarded Legion @ Ment

io: 4491-92

SO BRANCE

ACTION TAKEN

Approved for

SS

REASONS

Distinguished Service Crosg

Volunteered to enter Germany to greate

mares do it but not a deservina.

e2 DSC.

Distinpuished Service ledal

Has pepresentative of Free Denmark in Sweden,

established sertes si clandestine boat routes frou

and under SFHQ

direction kept stream of Intelligence coming out

tron Denterk.

worked in cluse collaboration with

Americans and British in Stocknoim anu mas of

great hely to our operations.

Approved

Legion of Merit

Was naval head of Intelligence DIvision of Danish

Services ligence over to Sire.

Enown as Canilcar Organizatice.

Turned

his inte

Negotiator for

Danish Resistance mate allled governments, repre

sented Allied Interests in all

negotiations with

Panish Volunteer Ex Police. Group with as

fas Chief,

Danish irey and Navy Secret Intelle-

•ence Orrarization

In eneny occupled territory and

Chief, Darish Intellence

familcar organization, later becane chlet

ntelligence Officer,

Danish, SFHQ. 0e

20

---

## Page 171

- Capt Douglas Alder

Capt Harry A. Rositzke.

Cept W1ll1am Grell

Cmar Thonas Ge Cassady

Capt Fred Gercke

T/Sgt Jean B. Wertheimer

Sgt

Victor E. 440ae

Adj Chef Pierre Delvoye

T/5 John Co. Dumont

TIS Re

F. Boehner

12d Lt He Ke Lo Newser

Ist It 7, I. Fitzgeral

Capt J. I. St. Clair

2d It Iunrerce Hoguet

spl Caroline Healer -

Capt H. Pe Watson

Capt J. B. Harris, Jre

It Col R. R. Doöderidge

Hrs. Lildred Ripran

It (18) Carl Deve

Approved

Approved for

TCCH

Approved

Approved

SI BRANCH (cont.

Bronze Star (cont.)

Briefed and prepared agents in Inplementation of

Sussex Plan, later handled agents brought to uK

for trainire and disratching

on mission to Germany,

was Chief of Dutch Des&®

Mas Assistart Chief,

and later Chief, of lilltary

Shet Deputy Chief

Sectio Ref St parts dested in draiting ree

SI/ETO Reports Board,

organization of SI Sranch.

Readed SI Delgian Des!:, dispatched two tears in

30 days, was responsile for success of Doctor

team.

Coordinated chains in France developed fron Spain,

North Africa and Englard

became Chief SI/OSj For-

ward, later headed up G-5 Section OSS/ETO.

Theater Cormander's Certificate of Herit

Alproved

Vas chlor of German Desi, respondible for leelI

Unit Cormander's Certificate of kerit

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approvee

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

---

## Page 172

Yourt Skarzynskl

Approved

(Stateless Cv)

eit. statelies

Anared Sine Star

Halter Struve (Gerran civ) Approved

Sgt

SI BRANCH! (Cont.)

S1lver Star (Cont.)

Infiltrated Gernan lines in Vosges 2 Nov 44, spent

relessed

Evacuate Inertant sere on tars to eletzerland

for use by maricans,

since they gave info en

enemy secret service; recrossed Acerican 11ces 12

April 45.

Parachuted Into Come a in a5, made alle

contader ple too

rain no arents througs city.

Sgt Stepban M. Claessens

Jan H. Yan Detel

Miss Mayy d. H. Gentis

* Willen van Euljk

Horton

It Joseph Gould

S/t Roger Bohrer

a. Ut Richard iatt

- It Smar Milton Kat&

X

Bronze Star Medal

Approved subject Penetrated

enemy territory In Holland by boat,

concurrence of

acted as WI operator

for existing chains from

Col Vandergracht

8 April to 6 lay 45.

Same as above

Penetrated enemy territory in Holland 11 Her 45 and

till 1l lay 45 gathered and transmitted Intelligence,

Instructed Dutch radio operations.

Same as above

Penetrated enemy territory in Holland by boat and

fron Jan 45 to May 45 carried out extensive under-

ground activities connected with gathering and

transmitting intelligence.

Same as

above

Penetrated enemy territory in Holland 10 Mar 45 and

until 10 Apr 479

contacted agents and atteryted

penetration of Germany, recrossed to Americon Lines,

bringing military and economic in°o.

Approved

Approved for

UCCU

Approved

Arproved

Was chief of Reports Section.

Prepared various missions for Labor Section,

was CO

of Milwaukee School, largely responsible for use of

A-26 craft for parachuting agents.

Parachuted into Bregenz region,

arrested, Hilled

guard

escared and made way back to Allied lines®

Orkanized and executed missions

to obtain cernan

cover docurents directly behind forward arry elemunts,

Implemented Fotomac plan.

Approved fru

UCCH

Was Deputy Chief; SI, fron let 45 to May 45.

18

---

## Page 173

SIBRANCH

Sgt Gerhard Norickl

Major Alfred Huma

Returred for

further

clarification

la for Rodolohy C. Loescher

Same as above

It Col Jos-oh Lochard

Approved

eit: Fran

Ligion of Freit award.

Cht: Henri Stuber

Approved

S/It Etienne Ancergues

(Postmmously)

ACTION TAKENI

REASONS

Distinguished Service Cross

Approved for

Parachuted Into Germany, had gun fight with German

Silver Star

soldiers to save equipment in container.

reat courage in accomblishing mission

but never

established radio contact with base and acts do not

appear to justify DSC.

Legion of Merit

Narrative too scanty to be acceptable as justifying

this high award.

Same as

above.

During 1942 sent steady flon of info to General

Donovan on termany as read of a French special

Services~ After liberation of France gave considerabi

help in planning operations in Gernany.

Silver Star

Fron June to December 1944: Infiltrated lines Into

Brest where collected and sent back considerable

Intelligence on city's defenses; led American troops

through weak spot into city: captured nearby airfield;

infiltrated enemy lines eight

Joined Marcel MissiOD so and performed sinilar

aimes for 117. Cav Ren

Approved

other teams

fron London

carried radio equinent frequently,

joined maquis in August 1944, arrested in Iroyes

region and executed.

Proposed for British I1l1tary

Cross and for Croix

de Guerre ith Palm and the

Medallle de la Resistance.

17

---

## Page 174

14-00000

30:08

HQ a F? DETACHINT

OFFICE OF

SCRATEGIC SERVICES

UNIZED STATES FORCES ELROFEAN TERRIER

APO 887

31 July 1945

SUBJECT: Minutes of Leeting of ¿wards & Decorations Soard, 30 July 1945.

TO

See Distribution.

The meeting was convened at the call of the President at

2000 hours 30 July 1945.

2. Present were:

3.

awards.

It Col C. C. Bowman

President

Major Homer David

2d Lt I; F. Farsons

Recorder

See attachment for disposition of recommendations for

The meeting adjourned at 2330 hours 30 July 1945.

Frant taracus

IRA H. PARSONS

2d It

AUS

Recorder

Inct:

Survey of Board Recormendations.

DISTRIBUTION:

Cormanding Officer, OSS/Paris &

Cormanding Officer, OSS/London

Colonel J. R. Forgan

Miscellaneous Section, Adjutant's Office

Citations Board, Washington

Secretariat, washington

Each Branch Concerned

Mle

FILE

---

## Page 175

14-00000

HAAS

T/Sgt Frank G. l'yers

ACTION TAY.H

Approved

pist Set Martin Y. Drew

Approved for

TCCH

ADJUFLITIS OFFICZ

Bronze Star l'edal

REASOS

after consultation with liajor Andrews on tris

recommendation it was decided to approvet this man

on the basis that his work had been outstanding

enough to marrant the BSL.

This recormendation was considered in relation to

that of T/Sgt Lyers and takire into consideration

the relative merits of the tro men decided the TOC

would be a more just avard than the ish.

---

## Page 176

KAKE

Hiss Jane Paterson

PERSOIT EL BRANCH - PARIS

Approved

15

---

## Page 177

SERVICES BRAFCH

NAUS

Pfc Frank i Cererfe

Ist Lt Hoover Ie Softin

1st Set Cornellis Po11i0

SEt John Ca-eder

-/Sgt Thoras Ge Lennar

555t Armand lo LOvino

p_ antrang sararla

pa soland Larizer

ACTION TAKEN

Inft Cormander's Certi"icate of "erit

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approzed

REASCIS

14

---

## Page 178

STEID PEOTOGRAFTIC BRAICS

ACTIOX TAKEH

REASONS

CheSp. (P) John S. Barnett

Approved

Cadr John Ford

Approved

It Seter Ta Roguet

Approved

spop) Willian J. Theeler Approved

CoSpü (P) Robert C. Lorero Approved

Lerion of Herit

Photographed experinents with dust explosives

making possible their perfection by Sritish and

American scientists.

Distinguished Service l'edal

Fhotographed liormandy larding.

Bronze Star Fedal

Assisted in organizing photograph work on French

gorts ard executed sore of this work hinself.

Organized and kept uD

to date the library of photos

connected with above photo program.

Navy Correndation Ribbon

Worked out accurate narigating and coordinated

canera data so that detailed grioded

map beach

gradient inforratior could be nade available.

13

---

## Page 179

REA BRANCH

FAIR

ACTION TAFFR

25t It Peter, In Barsternt

Approved

REASONS

I-t James I. Tyson, USiER

It Halter Rothschild

t Kenyon Poole, SURN

Approved

Fronze Star liedal

Contributed materially to coordination and effective

prosecution of

tactical Joncing camraign as nenber

of Target Intelligence Section 12th 42 and later

Chief

of Target Intelligence section G-2 6 ide

a3

Attached to Hg, MAkE froy london to replace Capt

Salant;

acted as Sacretary of l'editerranean

Strategic Targets Cormittee; prepared iportant

studies

on Gernan aircraft production, particularly

in connection with jet-ropelled

plares,

his recom

mendations being accepted by the Air Forces®

Theater Comrander's Certificate of Kerit

Approved

Was attached to Legal Section, G-5,

SHALT, St

request

of Brig Gen John Foster; recommendation supported

strong letter from Gen

by

roster.

Unit Cormande

Approved

e of leFt

and!

12

---

## Page 180

14-00000

Sp. (I) J/c Alton G. Adams Approved

X-2 ERANCH + 3

Thea*er Cormander's Ce:tificate of "erit

Served with SCI Units attached to 12 AG; was in

charge of technical work. Involved In operating

first irerican-controlled exeny agent case in war;

assumed responsibility for

technical aspects of

another case in liov 44; in lay and June 15 did.

special nission to estabiisin contact wit

German

Intelligence

stations - several German personalitler

were captured.

---

## Page 181

14-00000

Capt) Janes chales

(Вті Iny)

maidstem

Capt)Charles & Isichaelis

Approved for

TCCL:

X-2 PRANCH - 2

Bronze Star liedal (cont.)

Interrogated impostant cases and coordinated

Information resulting Iron in'errogations,

Leadirg

to arrest of several enemy agents: In general

accomplioned his ick In bri=:

2 enemy sabelage heat agent 1o1

(1st It) Dantel runter

Approted for

TCCL:

bt, Albert jo Ce Brelte.

eit: Firmice

"Approved

* 2d It Richard C. Sickler

Approved

excalert and fruitful relations intr

authorities.

Nas American offer entere an

In lates innile not under interroration.

Vas attached to 12th AC as lalson officer with

French IlItary Security

and -ater in charge or

rench

"Titary Security In ir France; gave

valuable helo in preparing Eerican officer for CI

work in France; at 12th is reie

important contriou-

tions to success of American SCI operations; led

operations souti. of loire resulting

brought

under control and operated

enong chain of

several radios and numerous agents; outstanding for

aps cooneration nith US.

tas with

X-2 In Tedto and later ETCUSA aS

special

agent; nember of 69th SCI Urit and CO of 88th SCI

Unit;

carried out successful operations to

resporsible

for capture of cany enery agents

Enit 3 enemy agents

It: Winston Il. Scott

It Edward R. Heismiller

Capt Thonas Fo Furner

Returned

Returned

Returned

division of work of controlling enemy agentse

Same as above.

Same as above.

10

---

## Page 182

8 - 2 BRANCIL

May is

ACTION TAKEY

REASCTS

(a for) Arthur

Frit in

ason

Approved

anuaded Legion gMiit

(lator) John BIcakes

Approved

Legins of Perit aurad.

It Col) Thomas i a Robertson

Approved

(Brit my)

eitiUk

Ligion prict award

Approved

awarded Bronge this medit-

Approved

Obert Blum

Legion of l'erit

Yas Chief, Eritish Counter-Intellizence Service

In forth África and Francee His coc sration made

possible a most effective a-d efficient dead-

-quarters in Faris which succecaed 1%. lis mission of

acutralization and contro- of e-est esnionage

efforts.

das Chief, Controlled Enem Arent Section;

section operated 22 enery Treless trashtes

agents during orerations

- auropear. Continents

alding considerably in per erine theftective enemy

espionage ane sabetare easts. oc

Tas head of Fritish Contriled Snery Agent Section

and Director of SHAEF Counter-Intelligence

Har Soon;

Tae great aid to estabilsient of stritar section

assuning responsitility for training

American CI and SCI officers.

Bronze Star l'edal

Was

in Controlled Enemy Arent Section of Brit1sh.C

and later chief of SCI

Trit at 2ist ag; trained

American officers in controlling enemy agents and

at 2ist AG ras chiefly responsible for close

Integration of imerican and

British controlled eneny

agents operations on the continent.

i heave ast toro

and bead.0

JenstratIon on 11

Terrar

inent;, estabrated

Sa re

natters to

*Ir.

Astern nurs

London,

31 X-

9

---

## Page 183

14-40000

Is Ondr Buth Ee table

S/Sg: James J• W11]sen

Ist Sgt John Ie Forris

T/Sgt Weiwin E. Holte

Gpl Emera

senoit

Cast Gerden Be TObin

so branch - 2

Theater Commander's Certificate 2?: er1t

Approved

Was War Room Supervisor, Eritish, SEt: from 6 June

to 1 L'at 45,

responsible for keeping up-to-date

battle man.

corcise naps on rail, road and tele-

communications sabotage, subsequently used to

explain achievenents of

PFI to. Suprene Commander®

Unit Commander's Certificate of Verit

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

44

---

## Page 184

It: Phtllope Saillard

Approved

Jean Vauzelle (Fr civ)

T/5 Halvor Ea lipe

T/S Asmund Gravdal

T/3 Harinus D. L'yrland

Sgt Charles T. LicFadden

T/3. Badle. Foyland

TUIVR

Pit Einar

ar so silasses

no artist

Cpl Kai 0.

C. Johansen

Major Harry lo

AaJe

(rit

Army)

Approzed

Approted

Approred

Approved

Aporared

UCCH

for

Approved

Disa proved

Approzed

AppraTEd

cut Reed W. Fickok

Ti3 Wichsel 3. Shes

Approved for

Uccy

Returned

Stig Jensen

Rhead

Returned

Disarcroved

la Jor Co Prit Ahay-lartin Approved

Approved

Approred

awarded Pronge. thre sedsl

SO BRANCE - 3

Bronze Star (cont.)

Held over from previous A/D Bd meeting. Was merber

of radio erer of Capt Pecquet and is in same

catezor as Sebastland:

Case si-llar to that of Illy Rocker. (above).

Parachuted Into Xorway with Unit Rype.

Parachated Into forway with Unit Rype.

Paracheted into forray vith Unite Rype.

Was Notor Pool Sergeant at Area H.

Paracirated Into Torway with Unit. Rype.

No apparent reasor for

Brit

Was Is. sat

Unit hype.

arached Into Horway with Unit Rype

Has Deruty Chies

British,

Fanning Section,

largel, responsible for coordinating resistance

SPEQ,

efforts under SEE?•

Was set of the Guard, Area H.

Was Felical Croeri',

Area F. Further clarification

deemed advisable to justify BSV for a rear echelon

enlisted man:

Direct ald to US forces not shown.

Held over fron previous A/D Bd meeting®

After con-

sultation with SO it was felt that this officer was

not directly enough in touch with OSS activitles.

Held over fror previous I/D Id Meeting.

Britisa

Was Chief,

of great heir to oss in ratter or supplies.

SF:Q and was

Len in estabilshirs so/oss.

Was ci-illan cor unications

5719.

peratine in Derrark from

---

## Page 185

14-00000

ING.

Rene Áckernan (FT Cir)

Approved

Etienne Albertini (Fr civ) Approved

Approved

Approved

amanted Bunge Ster Nedal

(slit)mily c. hocker

Approved

citifrance

aucardid pronge Strinedal

Tres teresselin (I cir)

Cit: Isence

It Camille Lelong

"(Fr civ)

Approved

awardid fronge Her melal.

Ious Sebastiant, (F ciT) Approved

awarded Bongs Star Medal:

SO BRANCH - 2

Bronze Star (cont.)

Recruited by Lt Col Cammaerts to work In Vercors;

when this was dispersed he made possible escape. 0% 00/

taking them threngh Grenoble In oën truck to point

40 miles away wile men were in uniforn and area in

state of siege.

On 2o, in heat on eat tone vith ne

heavi, framchattat TIfe

wIth help

Castagniet (below),

using stretchers.

Helped Albertini.

Parachuted Into France 4 Sent 44 with Jedburgh team

Desmond. came trough lines in civilian vehicle to

Five intelligence to American 3rd iry; subsequently

made several trips througn Iines to father intellig-

Worred with sir. circuit and executed intellisence

mission benina enemy lines in Avranches-St. To area,

harrorly escaping death by shooting:

subsequently

attacred to 113 Cav Group.

interrogating Pil's,

Interpreting and particating in reccmaissance

missions with irerican troops; wounded in action.

was chief of FrI in lianche Debt; gave valuable

intelligence on region to vII Coros and Ist Army.

suppled recruits for agent missions and alded

considerably in restoring port facilities of

Parachuted into seance as nember i vedburga teas

puttina his frt forces at us disposal. or

Bruce, unified disjointed groups to sardmum of 6,000

men,

considerably aided American troops along the

•Loire Ziver; tooi: part in nunerous attacks against

Tas chief of Jedburgh tear Edward, sent by pilder

17 Sent 44 and head of Dutch Liaison

Mission with

Inteliconce for

17e ConSo and test and Tect is onene

Divs; recommended for award by Capt Sollenberge..

worked with radic

after liquidation of Vercors and performed out=

standingly in maintaining radio contact with London.

Bre.

Forevile)

---

## Page 186

14-00000

Anderson

Returned

Est endeA. Muraud Approved

eit: Fine.

SO BRANCE. - 2

Silver Star (cont.)

Direct ald to US not shown

Parachuted Into l'arne Dept, regrouped and arned

local resistance elements, which has hitherto been

discouraged and poorly orrantzed; while on recon-

naissarce mission was arrested, inprisoned,

Interrogated and tortured without siving inforna-

tion about his groups; remained in prison In

(It herbert Felgesen

Approved

(Horwegian Aruy)

editionee

awarded Silvin Steer:

gie, Jens Illlelund

Returned

Leon

-Acard Fr civ)

Approved

At: Janee

awasdelBronze.star.snedax

Sgt Roger I. Pierre

Approved

Janik (Fr civ)

Approved

actided-Bronze stas need

spirant. RaymondCorpain Approved

eit: France

awarded bronze stei madel

Parachuted Into Jaevsjo

arraned for housine for unit hype and in generall

participated actively in all operations of the Unit.

Including attacks on railroads, helping in olanning

them ard guiding them unit through tortuous regions

familia> to him; with an enlisted nan comnleted

asta caron of at streetly adjacent to 1azze

gara carracks at Plutten funnel.

Direct aid to US not shown

Bronze Star Ledal

yes the met rey an can peel to

without his helo transmissions could not

have been continued, particularly during 3-neek

period 201loving Iquidation of Vercors Maquis; he

staved with Peculet's grouy throughout this period

Seryed as radio overator and assistant in Jedburgh

tean Archibala In Vosges region; particated in

raids and skirmishes.

Was radis operator to Capt Martinot, successfully

maintaina contact with London;

arrested and

tortured

without

"talking"

Imprisoned

for year in Allach

Concentration Camb (disciplinary camp for Dachau).

Worked with It Roger Henguet in Loir-et-Cher Dept;

organized and trained sabotage tean or 30 nen; his

nouse used as sale house; helped kil two Geraan:

attensing to arrest himselt and it prucker, took

part ir all recaptions or materiel.

led numerous

sorties against enemy : DO 4.

---

## Page 187

14-00000

SO BRANCH

NAME

ACCION TAKEN

REASENS

(Vajor) Cyrus E

'anterre Approved

(Et) Leon F.

Ball

Approved

Distinmished Service Cross

worked in Vercors Haquis;

Parachuted Into Isere Depte destroyed power Diart In

organized and treined unts,

Drone ept, nocred out rail trafric alone arone;

while procedira for Insortant derolitions

project

was arrested by Gernanss

rerained prisozer until 2 lay 45. -

Pasacoted Into prance i June 44, cEranized rests

aese froups wach contically harassed marg of.

ganize. reception or Jo-slane

pasacruting at'shieres

Approved

Ed: linmart

Paracited Into Denmari, organized resistance aroups,

instructed them in veasons, etce,

then, leo

sabotage attacks, one de mich halted rall trancic.

for 6 days and on anothet the signal syster and

control toier Tere put out of actioni toor con-

spicuous part in attacks on eneny a tire of

Liberation, showine frost heroisn under enery fire

eit!L'N

Tarted Leston of lierat

(Brie.)Frederick wo Micholls Approved

ias Chief Communications Officer, S0r 40

: Major Olaf Le I1ppnan

Returned

Direct aid to US forces not shown.

Silver Star

Toseph Arcelin (Fr civ)

Approved for

BSM

Took active part In work of Major Ortiz and in his

absence acted as chief of the

group; went on

dangerous reconnaissance sissions; participated in

battle which ended by group beirg surrounded and

surrendered to save village of Centron®

---

## Page 188

14-00000

•2d It Scött Puck-mar

Sgt Margaret Kinderman

Capt Kauro Iehto

• Capt Charies ilo

C. 1111s

Jullus

Eravnan

It

Daniel

F.

Targolles

Unit Commander's Certificate of l'erit

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

Approved

DI sanproved

---

## Page 189

SI BRANCH

Anto

eit: Hirmary

inh terman

CIT)

Approved

Paul" Lindner, (Gernan Civ) Araroved

TonEy B. Eyde

•It Gruber (German C1v)

(postaunously)

Approved

Approved

zel Jankorst, sste

Polise Aruy

Lajor Erafford P. Bots

Ap-roved

aperoved

Parachuteu ren German 1 tar 45p establ=

hirself In

during tered 1a89.

E in sontactsi eu 2 Ant nece

surrounded

troops tile

nare

Ju contact hut cot ama? safely despite tiree

searcres as

Tert area.

On 22" bar Terz 7aS

"I berated"

Fussians, taking active pars in

icconbanied lih.

Exonze Star Medal

Directed operations in France and into Cerrany for

G-2 2th ariato

Voluntarily zave un job in England to go or mission:

to Germany to create Intellize ce ghains for labor

Section among niners; had previously done undergroun:

work In Ceruany; plane in which he went to se

parachuted never returned and there ias been no

further word of him.

Parachuted Into Germany•

Mas Exec 0 of Field Detachment sith Ist Aray and

12th AG.

incheod eit: UK? approved

Theater Cormander's Certifitate of "exit

Braner Intelli

Hence be co at not / Be i ran 1011-

dawarded Thiate Corns a can Cestificati

2 Ment, 0o

---

## Page 190

14-00000

EQ:

OFFICE

UNITED S1.

WSSXCHIKNY

RATEGIC SERVICES •

FORCES EUROFAN THEATER

APO 887

8 August 1945 i

SUBJECT:

Minutes of leeting of Awards & Decorations Board, ? Aug 15;

TQ

& See Distribution.

The neeting was convened at the call of the president

2000 hours 7 August 1945.

2. Fresent were:

anerds.

It. Col C. C. Bowman

P. asident

Lajor

Somer David

Ist It Stanley " Folberg

2d It Ira Fi. Farsons..

Recorder

See attachment for disposition of recoumendations

for

to The meeting adjourred at 2330 hours 7 August 1945.

Incl:

Curusy of Board Recormendations.

DISTRIEUTION:

Conmanding Officer, OSS/Paris

Corpanding

officer,

oss/London

Colonel J. R. Forgan

Colonel C. C. Forman

Riscellaneous Section.

Adjutant's Office

Citations Boardg

Tashington

Socretariat, corsetret

tastington

Each 3ranch

Sict. ad.1

fair Filder:

IRA H. FARSONS

2d Lt,

AUS

Recorder

RETER TO RESCROS BERTOT

JOB GALER RAK 2

69112

it l them 89

Bot!

un folder.

---

## Page 191

14-00000

"CS" RECORD MATERIAL

1. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

8 RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID/ARCHIVES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RUNE ON OR BEFORE

DATE INDICATED.

GASC

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4548

DO NOT PEMOVE THIS FORM

THEY 179O USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

DUE DATE

14 DEG 1970

1150

1478

ch

50b 76-741

space 320219

11.

RETURN TO

CA50

RID/ARD RE

610 * 0

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

DOCTAST: 8

POLDER: _

41

PAGE:

BOK:

36

INTERIAL

USE ONLY

UNcLASSIFIED

---

## Page 192

SECRET

215

TO

Cartein j.?, Frie

cn2 transio

• We Sexto

eclin

Devet.

_A March

12-39020

BB 5025 M

PIS ATINED TO

Picase

put

I'M iN: 1: 31210159029

rare of the ?0am)

SECRET

---

