# 104-10059-10231

## Page 1

104-10059-10231

26 February 197*

MSVORANDUM FOR THE. RECORD

SUBJECT: James A Everett

I,. Everett met with the IG and the undersigned for over an hour

and a half yesterday afternoon. He was separated from the Agency, as a

Staff Agent, in June 1973, and now seeks a review of that action.

?. Everett stated that he served for fourteen years with the

Agency, starting with CT training in 1959. He joined the Agency

after 8-1/2 years in the ministry, and was "clean" for purposes of

deep cover.

He served always under cover, and the meeting with us

was the first time he ever had been in the Headquarters Building-

He had spent four years in Norway, and spoke the language, which

he felt made him a natural for his original choice of "deep cover,"

which he now thinks may have been wrong..

3. Everett states that he was with the Agency in Sweden for

7 years - 1960-67 - first under cover with an export-import firm

based in New York

The, last three to three and a hall years were

with Robert R. Mullen & Co. He says heftas the number two man

in LPGLOBE, which he understands has since been incorporated

into. CCS. He retained his cover in Mullen (which was two blocks

away from the LPGLOBY offices), being responsible for the Africa.

area. Then he went to the Netherlands for four.years; he doubted

the viability of that assignment, yet there were four people there

without enough to do.

4. Two things happened. First there was the Western

Femisphere flap, relaied to the Agee case. He had been a CT

classmate of Agee's, although they were in different parts of the

divided class. He knew Agee, having a casual bui familiar association

with him during training. He says Agee has a phenomenal memory.

Hc has not seen Agee since training.. He says that Agee was Kindschi's

case officar in Mexico City, when Kindschi)was under Mullen cover,

and that Agee listed Kindschi ir a book Agee has written, reporting

6064

(ATT TO DOC

# 4048

Per Jean S. - original in Everette's

Case File.

yc

SOONET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Kindschits earlier service in Stockholm under cover (with Everett,

where Kindschi and Everett were "the Bobbsy twins)'). Everett.

was not mentioned in Agee's. book, but it raised a further question

about his esposure to Agee.

5.

Evereit returned to Washington 17 June 1972--he noted the

irony of the date, being the one of the Watergate arrests. He met

Howard Hunt (for the first time) on 19. June at the Mullen office, at

which Hunt met him like a long lost brother, based on his own earlier

CIA employment. Now they were both vice presidents of the same

company. The window of the office was across the street from that

of the.office of headquarters of the Committee to Re-elect the President.

Everett commented that they must be uneasy over there, " and

commented on the stupidity of what had been done in view of the over-

whelming strength of the President. He could see something like that

happening in 1937 (sic), when theré was the issue of peace.

Hunt did

not comment, but in about a half hour there was a phone call indicating

that the police had a lead. Hunt exclaimed, "My God, no!" and left.

They met on the street shortly thereafter, but Huat dian't even see

him he was so preoccupied.. He returned to the office and left again

and Everett never saw him again.

Everett observed that his association

with Hunt,

although clean, was another weakness in his cover. His

cover, "which had been strong was now gone." Now deep cover was

over, for him, and the question became what to do

6.

At this point Everett gave his personal view that an intelli-

gence o ganization has special responsibilities towards its employees.

"If it doesn't react with integrity towards its employees--that will be

the death of it."!

Their

T. Everet then said thal De, Schlesinger las here again.

Describing it as a shattering experience for the Agency, he saw it

as affecting the Agency's ability to adjust to its responsibilities:

Hie (Evcrett) had looked for another line of work in the Agency, and

Énally four a place in DO Division (although it has become FR

Division. and ay haye done so by tent,. The job was in Chicago,.

and he lalkea twice to the Chief of Station, as he terined him, whose

name he carrot now recail, mesting in a safehouse in Washington.

Both fclt they had made a good marriage.". Eoin brew foreigners,

ard Everett. was the sert who could develop acquaintances from students

through professors. Operations would be conducted in alias and disguise,

- 2÷

321

---

## Page 3

14-00000

and there was practically no chance of a tie-in to the past. Everett

says he did not have a "signature on paper, " but he considerer it

practically agreed; the proviso being approval of the Division Chiel,

"or someche above him.". He only had to come in on a Merday,

¿iter which he voula go to Chicago to lock for housing. No one kept

the Monday appointment at the salehouse. Again, or Tuesday, no

one showad up.. He became worried about the 'oft again, ca again"

näture of ihis. On Friday another appointment was inaue, but instead

of someone from the Division showing up, it was Jack Kinäschi and

Charlie Beckman from CCS, the latter saying it was his respunsibiliiy

to tell him that he had been declared surplus-

Beckman described

alternatives that Beckman charactorized as being "very generous,"

along with a "rurber of horror steries to keep me feeling a listle

more comfortable." There were three limitations on a saltlement:

(1) Everett could not use his former Agency employment as a reference,

(2) he could nöt use his foriner Mullen association as a refererice, and

(3) he could not seek employment on the East coast. He would be paid

a year's salary, with taxes deductible. Evereit said he could not

accept the offer.

He was an executive who would have to seck empioy

ment with no record of what he had done for the past fourteen years.

Beckman was quoted as saying it is "the best anybody's been offered."

8. Iverett talked with Mullen, who he said was shocked.

Mullen bad helped Bissell, and had done more for the Agency than

many in it, and could not understand this approach.

Beckman

(apparently) off-set this reaction with statements of the Agency's

authority. to bire and fire, and told him of the lack of success of

eleven who had taken the issue, to court.

9=

Everett warted a lump sum payment, unaccountable, and

in a few days.

15 July was the deadline.

"They" returned on 15 July

and said OK, but on 30 July they. said the payment would have to be

taxed. This meant an extra $5, 000 out of his pocket. Everett then

cited some $18-19, 000 for his salary, plus some $10, 800 from his

retirement and accumulated leave.

He did not complete summarizing

all the details. 'He said they tried their best to go back and re-

calculate the past five years to help on the tax, and the Agency is

responsible for doing the tax "this year and until the taxes level off."

10. Everett said he had talked with Pete Wheeler at the time

who was incensed, and who said "we'll get you something," and "as

3 m

---

## Page 4

14-00000

long as I am in this Agency you will have a job. " This was in June-

July 1973, and Wheeler "lought it up to and including Schlesinger."

Everett said his record was superior- he had never been in a flap,

although he had taken over people's flaps, he had never had a money.

problem, he had sever raped a secretary, while others who had

problems staved on. Wnseier argued that if acid had been theow. in

his face he would have been retired on medical disability, and that

now he suffered a

security disability which, for our Agency, was just

as much a disability, and he should be retired with an annuity. Wheeler

quoted Schlesinger to Everett as dismissing it out of hand, and Colby

as not, wanting to touch it.. Wheeler said he had no where else to go,

and it was final. Everett then went to Mullen.

11, Mullen then undertook to take on the responsibility, although

it was not his.

He said there would be nothing for 1973, but that then

he could expect $25, 000 a year, followed by $35, 000.. Unfortunately

Watergate hasnot gone away--it has been hammer, hammer, hammer.

Innocent people have been hurt, and Mullen has lost business because

of it. The largest account has been lost, for Rehabilitation of the

Handicapped at $98, 000 a year.. He also named General Foods io the

tune of $50-60, 000 a year, the Mormon Church and International

Rotary Club. Mullen sold out to Robert Bennett, to be paid $150, 000,

but in view of what has happened to the company he has waived the

payment. Evereit still wants lo stay with Bennett, but Bennett is

looking around, for a way to get out, which would mean the company

is through,

12. Everett spoke of his status, in which his family, the Dutch,

hia church," ete., have xo. know his zusociation with CiA. The publicity

of the vullen Amsterdam office.can mean only him, as he was the

Amsterdam office. With the Mulen Company he brought in a $30.000

¿coant--$25,000 this year--but now it seems to be under some hold.

Il he loses the account because of publicity who is 10 pay?

13. Sennett feels ubligated lo his clients. and is responsible

fas Lis employees.

He has arranged for his

two New York sacrstaries,

ard now bas Overatt and two secretaries in Washington. Bennett has

Deen iffered

cois of the vice presidencies

ne UTile (phonetic), the

body under the U.S. Rail Act, with Senator Baker behind him.

The

decision most be made in a week, There has besa tall of a G5-15

for Everett in the Department of Transportation, with support throngh

the Bernetts(including Senator Bennett): But Watergate publicity will

- 4

thos

---

## Page 5

14-00000

kill'this. He can't go to Dan Shorr as a Mullen representative, because

he is tarred with CIA.

14. in his talks with "a good friend on the Hill," be was asked,

about his separation from CIA, about what the IG said about it-

He

said he never knew, as he never talked to him. Then he called

Pole Whealer sno recommeaded that he jee the IC.

15. Dr. Chamberlain said that judgments are not easy to

challenge, but that we could look at the procedures followed. We

would have to inquire into how the matter was handled.

16. Everett said that his appeal was essentially for one of two

alternative things: (1) a return to the Agency, deep cover is out, - but

possibly something like the IG, but no make-work job. He might be

given an overseas post in an embassy under official cover; of (2) he

feels he has earned 14/20 of retirement, under the security disability

argument of Pete Wheeler's. He then added what amounts to a third

alternative, that he get the Agency's help with employment elsewhere

in the government,

at a one-or-two step increase and not as a GS-13.

17. Names of those tho can speak on his problem: Pete

Wheeler, Jack Kindschi, (Charlie Beckman, a Ralph (last name not

recalled at the moment):

Others involved with him in the past: Ed

Marelius,

when he had troubles there, and Glenn

Curtis or Curtis Glenn,

Around 1967 there were five

in

The

had been there 1964-67, and his deputy

had been PNGd. The new

came out a week or so before Everett

left, and Everett (representing the other case officers) wroie him a

memorandum about the

mistress. She needed money and her

apartment was made a salehouse (where she entertained othar boy

friends); her brothei, a homosexual, had the adjoining apartment

next door.. She was foisted off on the Muller cover company as a

secretary or translator, neither of which was she qualified for.

The nev

wroie Everett's Filiess Report, althougli he had

been in a supervisory position only a weck or so, end had met him

only once, saying that Everett's eigh: years of church background

was such that he could not be at ease with the foibles of mankind.

Erereit says he riade "vigorous objections" through George Kephart

of OGLORD, and he understands that the Fitness Report was amended

znd the

was seprimanded,

- 5-

SIENET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

744443

18.. The relevance of this was that when he, Everett, was

preparing to enter into the Chicago arrangement, the man who had been

Jwas the Depuly Division Chief in DO Divieion (now •

ERD).: Jack Kindschi told Everett that this man is the one who was

responsible for the adverse turt of evenis.

1?- Everett spoke of the fact that Art Hochberg was wider -

Mullen cover in Singapore.

He. understands that Fochberg was

withdravn for his safety, relating a story he had from Maity

Lukoskie that Hochberg was toid to go to Bangkoi and pache for

instructions, which led to his moving to Manila.

Everett pressed for alacrity in our review ot his case

We said we couldiget the affair rounded ip before about two weeks.

We got his home and office telephone numbers.

151

S. D. Breckinridge

6

---

