# 104-10227-10150

## Page 1

• 104-10227-10150

SEMET

10 <6t0b05 1961

WELORANDUM FCA THE RECORD

BUBJECT: MORtiNG @IlL DS. NIHC Cardono on 6 Celober

De. bilil arrived about 9:50 a.m. lor the mooting so had

set al 19:00; agaln bo was driven by hla vecretary shem ho Inspuduced.

As sur lag the tirel snooting, he remalned outside la the car.

Our

raceting lasted anill 12:00 n00g.

Z, 81908, De. MIRO handod me a addo in longhand llaling the

tapo Elacussod Wila ma an 9-Ceroder. Theoo pointo are:

8. Groupe conducting propagaads, ate, with Agency support

abcaid recalve their support and to cooratnated through the Council.

3. A propaganda campalan should be rajed by the Council

(1). Cabo, via a long wave sadle statior in loy " cal.

(2) Cubans la Miami and otbor. U.S. aredo bag:

(a) Subsidiaing Diario de las Arierleas:

(a) Contractina for simo on pacito eratione.

(3) Latio America, vilà a plan such as tha Operacion

Cisters.

c. Undergusand Actlvilos.

11) Protialon el monthly fundo lo Councll los procurlag

Cuban pesos to dead to the

saven-odd realutance

¿roupe to Caba through rollable charmals (such as

previoualy dent through tbe

---

## Page 2

(2)

Commando aclion as outlineil la plan pronented

10 12i0 un 6 telobor.

3. Coranando Flag

Then Dr. MINC: handod mo a plao (la Lagliai) for ciandestine

actlon prepared by bie nilllary collaboratore, Choin ho samed se

COlOnOl VARUOl VAMELA Castro, an ailicer of the Acadoriy, Caplai

INFIqUe DESPAINE, and Colono! (an) MONIEAGULii. lie alasod

that they were of the BAHQUIN group and had been prlacnero.

¿ ill roopoct to phe plas ler clandoallee operationa do Cuba,

ho oratod that 300 men could ba coasted upon for coramando actiou, part

al thor'bore, part lu Cuas. Ho reilerated thei a commando uperalion

was essential lo poisor morale amora the sall-Castro ciomonto In Cuba

atri in exile so woll as to conduct sabotage that would further waken

Cabas economy aud tbe Communial regina, He anid inat for this operation

U.S, help would ba necessary in providing weapons, ainino, demollilong,

equipmont, and fundo, lio uroposed that 1l thie plan was coroldored lo

save merit, that I arrange to have comoove moct with hie millary con

lo sure out the delallo. Ales all preparalions had been made and

mato lel providod, ole, Le operatica wouid be purely a Cuban allair.

(NUTE: Plan turned ovor to Thoraçoco al on? no eting at 15:30 on

6. Ectober (or tranamiasion.)

A. Hequest for Auge 0lC. 86 gend tu iseambray

LT aIRO ronashed dust over e month ago he bai sade a sequest

to Claph lor arma for the anti-Cactro Iseuryants in the iscenoray, but

to dato bad heard nothing relatlue to lbe request. He commonted aryly.

I adi but never hear du ausvor.

"Ho caid that the liahtero there should

be apportod.

Pr. MIC stated that he had a boat (rovidod by us) and

a meano for delivery of lhe arma. Cavaldo RAllKiE la cidel aí the

a scaribray troup.

COMMENT: Has anythlag bees done abort thle requeer?

3. Informalion on Allia leceivad by Castro Farimo

U8. 11lilO handed ion a lone report which he sald was brought

to bino by lhe Argentino Ambassador lo Cuia uben the lator came lo tho

U. B. al the time of iroelden ¿'ADiulil'o visie. "He salú the Ambasuador

mould not divulge the source of the laforatos bul commented. "You will

* Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

2

---

## Page 3

74-00000

CLONET

De. AIRO old abero ras no way lo dopermine die accuracy

ol to ligures alvon of planos, guns, ets, recelved iroi: tha Sovies blos

(and Haly and Canada) but even ll the 1iguros more exosgeralod 100 per

caal, thay could sull be inprossive.

Ho aùdod that Castro do dally becondag alronger militarliy.

with weapons and with a largo militia di close to 302, 000 boing erained

greator will bo lao last.

we must act soon, olgorouoly and ellectivoly,

to lasure victory. ruothor doloat would bo disastrous and would make

Cabnas, ¡alla Amerleans and albera bellevo Castro lo bo invincibia.

Then sould core accuaidiations and oven worso, the laplanding of

Caster-bochod soginea in the seriaphero.

And the U.S. woald sufier

worst of all, being dlecredited ios deloat and "¿alle al lateriorenco."

"in lao Uii no nation wouid siand bonide to U.s."

6. ¡yoposal 1131 Caunell 30 8o Cuba Wilh Corimando Group and

Lalauliot a Goverouent on Cuban oul!

Di. MINO Uben doclared that be was coarlaced that Castro

wouid never bo evertizorn by all tho propagania, the odoctage, conmandi

raldo, guerrilla actritics, rupturo of diplomatic relations and deterloraling

oceanaly, and inal l1 cao inconcelvable so ossablioh a coveranent tiresile

for nothing would cino of ll; that the only soluilia for defensing the

Castro segme was lor the Revolutionary Cranell do go 8o Cuba and carso-

11ah a coveramost ou Cuban soll, ust recognillan by all iriendly courios

and allisary anelalenco al lia pricipal ally,. te U. S., Dod that the U.5.

bo roady to interroue lomedlatoly with la forces.

This would ail have

d lako place lo a matter ci 4y bouro, otherulos it would fail. I rocogaiso

that (a1s 1a a bold piar, bur boloress la necossary. Thors sill bo mary

richo, pany say bo billed. Au los mydeli, I don't caro li 1 dia, I lara

lose all my porsonal ponsessions and sry don lo a privorer," lie retterased

that all count be wail prepurod in advanco, inoso muo: be no vaciliatior.

everylling maot procood rapidly. Firat, a concianto said is forco lo

colma a jiaco of Cuban darillory, prolerably pear Gnantaramo, and lainie-

diasely to mambora al tha Council yu asbore, proclalm a pruvisianal

government, brcadcast by radio to ail nations an appeal lor seco, nilies

land cables prejared in advauce suuld aloo be sent sul), requess U. s.

anstatance, and the U. 5, aboald furalah ouch ansiotance at unca in odes

quale strongli to easure victory.

3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

S20.2T

Belore duci an eclion in undertaker, the enenty trust loo

saltered by propaganda, cabotage, raids, underar untactici. and the

1:a38 of the people of Cuba cousi be premared to accept to perrisissi

governent through propaganda, Incroasad inoulodgo of ibe Scanci!

sad le uniljing efforto.

Dr. MIKC asked mie what 1 thoughi of iblo projeet; did i salar

Rha! Castro could do ovarthrora in any other voy.. ladmitted that

atrong trilitary action appeared uccessary. lolated farther liat

al course bla plan would have lo bo atudied al ¿he higboat gonerament

levala. He proposed that ho michi elaborate a plan with his ralliesy

• collaborators and lovagoslod shas he do thia so sual it mighe bo esarained

and considered.

•De. Milno declared that ho naa convinced that thin Coreruntor

dagger la tha sido of tbe stater could only do aradicaiod by auca action,

thal the U.S, lo and sill bo blamed fox all anti-Castro proyasande,

sabotage, eic. and that enomy otaton will convance ll lor Intervention

la Gain, but that l8 the li. i. ques to the ald of a friendly regaletionary

rogero estäbliebed in the country and holso it deloat the sonial-backed

Cosimuniat roçime, ail friendly govornmonta will agulaad.

"I haro no parsonal polluicei ambitlons, " doclared sitRi.

"I merely am tryinz so clair the Council, those miasion is to anily ine

anti-Castro elements inaldo and outaldo of Cuba.

I the tearo len't coa

sidered ollocilve, then chango los pitcher. Bur l belteve the Craneil moust

ontabltsh itaall on Cuban suil, and 300a.

Tirio ls against 2s. "'Ibu i unta

dol Esto agronmons will backflra ayaluas tho U.5. Il Castro le alloved

to serusla in Cuba, In a yoas, altor too polilicad of the countrlos se-

coivlay U.S, all have gotles their haris on U.d, sold, they wil) aay.

'Thanko lo Caalro, ue jot 1hio. " And they will spond li as do loo fast

vish no bonelia to lo social and economic vallare al the peeplo."

8. Ylore aboul the Judzos and i awyera

I quaried Do, AilRO as 80 blo viewo relative to tie podzos and

lawyero and their future statua, Ho aslá ho sured that Choy craid all

roanito and that thoy cuuld bo siron dastorance as la too 390r. He de:

clared thal De. ALIBAL tao doi qualified lo bo a justico and loal no was .

dalaz nochine but mo›lag politice and trylny to diocrodie lse Council

and MINC: and VARONA.

Dr. Lilie: doclared thai do, as Priao Liniotes

In the oarly days of tho Caotro sovernment, had named LAint to tbo

---

## Page 5

Supreme Court, but that now he considered / LABAU unfit 8o hold any

Judicial position.

Bo Mombers of the lovoluttonary Council

Dr. MIRO: remorked that ho had a meating of the Council en

10 October. I aakod what elements now composed it and what he pro.

posod to add. He named the following sa prosentiy la the Consojo:

Resento

30 de Nortembro

- MAR

Accion Damocratica

20 de Mayo

AAA Indopondiento

MIC

Montecristi

Ho Bald ho had inelied to join:

MAP

Unidad Revolue omaria

and awaited thets reply.

He would also like to have the Workero, Studento, and the

Profesalonale (Doctors, Lawyers, ete. ) eomo lato the Council. He bo-

loves Batistianos and Comunistas and elemonts unwilling to cooporato

should be excluded, but that all other groupe should be brought together

andor the Council.

Ho contenda that all anti-Castro activilies, escopt clandestine

and military, should be coordloated by mombars of the Council, but that

the encepted activitien ahould ba known only to him (MIRO).

%. Probable Argonsine Rupturo of Rolallons Frilb Cuba

De. MIRO declared that he bollered trininens lso Argentine

rupturo of polatione with Cuba. He said the argontine Ambassador to

Cuba (Julio AMOE.DO) una ordored to return to Havana the had boon

vacatloning in the U. S. after FRONDIZ. I's violi); tha? VILLANUEVA, a

Secretary of the Argentino Embassy In Cuba was comtay lo seo MIRO

today; and further that he (MINO) had received a phone call last night

---

## Page 6

023M27

from a Spanlard (Micanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Alroa, urgin, MERC

to go to Buonos Alroo to arouse anti- Castro sentiment of the poople.

Inaomuch so some Argentino sellon agalast Cuba appeared imminent.

(FERNANDEZ, said be bad already w71110n MINC a lotter. ) MINC says.

"Of coron, l'cansue go. I havo tha Consojo meeting on tha 101h.

Furthermore, lam going to New York on Cetober lith or 12th for the

SIP (Socloded Intoramericana de irensa) meeting and have boen allotted

12 minutos to address the meoting."

10.

MIRO lo attend Homago lo: LACERDA (Brasillar who

Precipitated QUADkUS' realynation) on Cetuber 15

De. MIRO sald ho plarned tu remaln la New York Clty (alter

11 and 12 Cetober SIP mooting) until October 15th to attend the borago

lOr LACERDA, the Coveror of Guanabera province In Brasil. MIRO

probably will stay at tbo Park Chambara Hotel, but will advice Clark

al bia location.

I cominanted that l would probably remala in Manhlagton noxt

week la vies of his plane, bur that I might so to New York City to meet

mi aim;0o would got in louch with him and arrango a mooting

time and place through Clark.

11. Propaganda Cominiosion

I asked De. MIRO aiout hio ldoes on the luture organizatión

and structuro of lho Propaganda Commiesion, Ho staled that 11 lo out-

alda the Consojo and not under his direct conirol, although the Council

accountant has beer pasolag fundo lo 18.

Ho oald CAIR RILLC had resigned

as head of Propaganda and that he would like CONTE ACUF.RO to handie.

1.: Ho cialmed that MESTRE had nol dons anything with propaganda.

12 MIRO's Views Molativo lo Supremo Court Justico or PRIO

beiar tocoraisod 88 licad u a iTovisional loversment

I asked De. MIRO If he bolleved that there were many anil-

Castro Cubans (both in and vut of Cuba) who favorad PRIC, or the head

of the Supreme Court to be the proviuional proaldent if a government were

to be establlahed on Cuban soll. Dr. MIC doclared that the revolution

to a fact, and that practically nobody wanta to do back to any former

rogirne.. The people in Cabe would reoiat any ouch poonibility. He de

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SSOST

BOUncod FRIC's acilvitios againal the Council and la efforto lo unily

the anti-Castro oloments. Lie oald that the people should bo siven en

opportunity to elect thoir chiel of atalo altor Castro'o overthrow and

roostabliahment of order In the inland.

13. Clicoo of Council (Cansejo Revoluctorario)

Wbon questioned about bie buenous nud private telephones..

NiRO snid, "The business phono lo also in my houco. I'navo no aflice

except in my house, but thai phone le always busy (JEllereon 2-4680).

So ude 8ho: 01hes phono (JEllorson 1-2751) whos you wish to call me."

"I soad to have a small oifico donowhere away fröm my home

because all the activities thore are driving my vife crasy. I want to

(Ind something modost so that no accusation can be inade ol ostontation i

merely a room for mysall, one los my sectorary, and one for meetinge.

of the Comicil, otc. The FRD had a place bul al that place aloo wns the

prons. the rofugee conter, ole. l would not be callofactory. The FRD

to now practically dond. I was the forerunner of the Consojo as the

anilying agency of the sail- Castro roslotance, "

14.

MIRO:0. Vlown on Coordinatine the Actinitles of Other Exile

Groupe

Aner DE. MIRO relterated hla vlow that he should be the

channel for funde and coordinsting the activities of groupa outsido the

Connejo nuch as the Students, FOMD (Labor), ofe., I aald khat ! under-

stood Rhat dome of those eloments vero unwilling lo function ander the

Consojo; and that In view of that situation, did he consider that an.

Activity Commistoe mighi be organised with a dolegure from each ol..

those groupo and under the chalrmanship of a member of the Concojo.

Thie would sorve to coordinato laoir acilmities, sive them a tie-in wita

Rho Consojo, yes not mako them subservient to it. Dr. MIRC ropilod

that this would merely set up another Consejo outside of and parallel to

the enisting Consojo. I did not pureue this lurtber, not having enough

background of those organisationa to be abla lo discuss the matter

effectively.

13. Tolephoro COnversallon with MIRO on ? Celober

Before my daparture from Alami los liashlagton on 7 Oetober..

I telephoned to DI. AilHO (rom the adeport. Ho appreciated the call and

asked ill had seen la the morning paper she action taxes jadlorday by

T..:

---

## Page 8

S20ILT

ChO ALABAU LaWyero' arous in proclalriing Jullo CAFCERAN (ono

•ol tha chief justices ln entlo) an "Iroaldont ol Cuba àt "ar." He e%-

pressed his Indignation ad thia untiateral "pollieal" more by ALADAU

and hia ashorento arong the exiled lawyero and judges. He adlod his

beet wlanes to ino and reminded me that he would probably so to New

York on Cetober lith or 12th for the SIP (joclodad Interamericana de

Promia) mooling. !replied that I'would appreciate it he wuld contact

Clark aftor hio arrival to give hin location la New York Clly, and that

Clark might bave a request from me for an appoiniment with him, l

thie seemod dosirablo. I ruggonted that la future phone conversations

I would be known as JUANITO.

Ho agreed with pleasure that thia would

bo a good proceduro. I mehod hin Codepeed and he replied illowlse

so me.

16. Comment

During these first too meetingo I endeavorod to establish

mypell favorably with De. MIkC and therofore refrained from bringing

up datallo of budgot or oppositon to any of bis speciíle proposals.

Lilotoned, ashod varione quoillons, and do talkod as lengta.

la futuri moottage, after I have galood further backgrouns and.

save more polley puldance, I shall be able lo discuss with him spectile

lannis and endeavor to reach arteemente or compromise, a may be

required.

62121

---

