# 104-10301-10009

## Page 1

T104-10301-10009

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

DRAFT

ARRB Request CIA-1

The following Directorate of Science and Technology

documents can

be Released in Full:

HR 1-11a

2/March 1964

p. 15

27 March 1964

fig. 3, p. 14

HR 1-11a

HR 1-11a

10 October 1969

p. 15

10 October 1969

fig. 3, p. 14

10 February 1975

p: 15

6 August 1959

p. 21

6 August 1959

fig. 9

HR 1-13h

16. August 1963

p. 49

HR 1-13e

16 August 1963

fig. 16, p. 48

26 September 1966

p. 47

26 September 1966

fig. 13, p. 46

Mission Statement

for the Directorate

for Science and

Technology

Organizational Chart

Office of the Deputy

Director for Science

and Technology

Mission Statement

DS&T

Organizational Chart

DS&T

Mission Statement

DS&T

Mission Statement

Photographic

Intelligence Center

Organizational Chart

Photographic

Intelligence Center

Mission Statement

National Photo-

graphic Inter-

pretation Center

Organizational Chart

NPIC

Mission Statement

NPIC

Organizational Chart

NPIC

RETUAN TO GIA

Background Use Only

De Nor reproduce

HORRY

---

## Page 2

13-00000

UKAF I

HR 1-11e

27 March 1964

p. 23

27 March 1964

fig. 7, p. 22

Mission Statement

Office of Special

Activities

Organizational Chart

Office of Special

Activities

The following Directorate of Science and Technology

documents are pending Directorate re-review.

HR 1-11e.

10 February 1975

p. 23

officen

Mission Statement

Office of Technical

Service

HR

1

10 February 1975

fig. 7, p. 22

Organizational Chart

Office of Technical

Service

---

## Page 3

13-00000

RAIS

782 HR 1-11a

ORGANIZATION

- 11 a

1oOctb9

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECH-

NOLOGY

3. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECENOLOGY. The Deputy

Director for Science and Technology Is responsible for conducting basic and

applied research and development In the sclentific and technical felds in

support of the Central Intelligence Agency. This Includes responsibility for

liaison and contact with the scientific community as well as all Government

agencies on matters of science and technology In intelligence as appropriate,

and responsibility for furnishing technical planning, programming guidance,

and support to other Agency components utilizing science and technology in

support of their functions. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology

is responsible for the operation of certain technical collection projects and

for the research and development of the means used by them for technical

collection; for the production of scientife and technical intelligence; and for

research, development and, where appropriate, the operation of automatic

data processing equipment in support of the Central Intelligence Agency and

• Its mission; and is further responsible for the maintenance and operation of

a center in which all information relating to foreign missile and space opera-

tions is collated, analyzed, and provided for the Director and other appropriate

USIB agencies... The DDS&T shall operate a scientific career service to pro

vide for the enhancement of career opportunities in the CIA, and shall direct

and coordinate the Offices of Computer Services, FLINT, Research and De-

elopment, Speclal Activitles, Sclentific Intelligence, and Foreign Missile and

Space Analysis Center, and serve as Chairman of the CIA Research and De-

velopment Review Board. (See organization chart, figure 3.)

27

March 1964

(182)

GROUP

ashudad from dudes

laungrading or

15

---

## Page 4

13-00000

38292 3-64

14

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

HR 1, fig. 3

SPECIAL ASSISTANT

TO DOS&T (COMOR)

DEPUTY DIRECTOR

FOR

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

ASSISTANT DEPUTY

SPECIAL ASSISTANT

TO DOSET

ARI

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

OFFICE OF

COMPUTER SERVICES

OFFICE OF ELINT

OFFICE OF RESEARCH

AND DEVELOPMENT

OFFICE OF

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

OFFICE OF

SCIENTIFIC

INTELLIGENCE

FOREIGN MISSILE

AND SPACE ANALYSIS

CENTER

27 March 1964 (182)

# J82)

ORGANIZATION

---

## Page 5

13-00000

ORGANIZATION

HR 1-110

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECH-

NOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy

Director for Science and Technology Is responsible for directing and coordi-

nating the activities of the Offices of Scientife Intelligence, Research and De.

velopment, ELINT, Special Activitles, Special Projects, and Computer Serv-

ices, and the Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center. His responsibilitles

(1) Advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientfie and technical

Intelligence matters;

(2) Producing scientific intelligence;

(3) Coordinating, in a staff capacity, existing and proposed Agency research,

and enginecring (RD&E) plans and programs to insure

responsiveness to Agency needs;

(4)

Conducting liaison with the entire scientife community, Including other

Government agencies, on matters of selence and technology relating to

intelligence:

(5) Managing the "R" Career Service.

ESCRIDED BY ARTIC

DATED

167 eli 25

HIS 871

Revised: 10 Oclober 1969 (132) sacros

15

---

## Page 6

13-00000

59309

10-68

CIA

Rerited: 10 Octater 1899 (482)

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

RESCIRDED BY

DEPUTY DIRECTOR

FOR

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

ASSISTANT DEPUTY

SPECIAL ASSISTANT

TO DOS&T

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

DATED

_R72 25-0

14I5-871

OFFICE OF

COMPUTER

SERVICES

OFFICE OF

ELINT

OFFICE OF

RESEARCH AND

DEVELOPMENT

OFFICE OF

OFFICE OF

SPECIAL

ACTIVITIES

OFFICE OF

SCIENTIFIC

INTELLIGENCE

FOREIGN MISSILE

ANO SPACE ANALYSIS

CENTER

HR 1, Fig. 3 .

ORGANIZATION

---

## Page 7

13-00000

- HR 1-11a

DATE 500 83

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHI.

NOLOGY

l'a, THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy

Director for Science and Technology Is responsible for directing and coordi-

nating the activitles of the Offices of Scientific Intelligence, Research and De-

velopment, ELINT, Development and Engineering, Weapons Intelligence, Tech-

nical Service, and the National Photographic Interpretation Center. Hls re-

(1) advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientific and technical

intelligence matters;

(2) producing scientific Intelligence;

(3) managing existing and proposed Agency research, development, and en-

gineering (R&) plans and programs to ensure responsiveness to Agency

4) conducting liaison with the entire scientific community, Including othe

¡overnment agencies, on matters of science and technology relating t

intelligence;

15) on a upter talen prototin on or relatey with ten infiren-

Community;

(6) managing the "R" Career Service.

-Rerised: 10 February 1975 (871) o

2 IMPD

L BY: 0596

15

---

## Page 8

13-00000

REGULATION

NO. V-130

Facia T Laye

R 1-130 * 7 724.191

ORGANIZATION

Revised 6 August 1959

PIIOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

23. MISSION

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center Is charged with producing

photographic intelligence and providing photographic intelligence services in

support of the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community.

24. FUNCTIONS

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center shall:

a. Produce photographic intelligence in support of Agency and national scientif

military, economic, and geographic intelligence objectives.

b. Provide photographic Intelligence support and services to the Agency and the

intelligence community.

c. Maintain a photographic intelligence facility manned and equipped to provide

complete analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support

of special collection and exploitation requirements.

d. Provide accommodations and serwces within the center for military-service and

other Government representatives engaged in joint exploitation projects.

e. Assist in the evaluation of other intelligence sources through comparison with

photographic data.

f. Conduct an active program of research and development in equipment and

techniques for providing improved exploitation of photographic intelligence,

coordinating such activity as appropriate with Agency, military-service, and

other Government components.

g. Conduct liaison with and represent the Agency to Government and private

organizations on photographle intelligence activities, coordinating such liaison

as appropriate with interested Agency components.

h. Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligerce collection require-

ments.

1. Assist in preparation of estimates of foreign capabilities in the field of photo-

graphic intelligence.

1. Perform such other functions related to photogtaphic intelligence activities

as may be directed.

25. ORGANIZATION

See organization chart, figure 9.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

H. GATES LLOYD

Acting Deputy Director

(Support)

DISTRIBUTION: AB

21

SSOME

---

## Page 9

13-00000

REGULATION

NO. 1-130

R 1-130

ORCANIZATION

Revised 6 August 195

PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

DIRECTOR

OF PHOTOGRAPHIC

INTELLIGENCE CENTER

ADMINISTRATIVE

STAFF

SECURITY.STAFF

COORDINATION

CONTROL STAFF

141-130-7

rjil

DATA MANAGEMENT

DIVISION

INDUSTRIAL-

GEOGRAPHIC

DIVISION

MILITARY-SCIENTIFIC

DIVISION

TECHNICAL

INTELLIGENCE

SERVICES DIVISION

27:49

8.59

Figure 9

STORAL

---

## Page 10

13-00000

..oF

K 413.

HI5$365

ORGANIZATION

LR3h

2:6 XeptL6

h. NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPIIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

(1) AUTHORITY. The National Photographic Interpretation Center (NPIC)

was established by National Security Council Intelligence Directive No. 8.

dated 18 January 1961 and functions under the executive direction of the

Director of Central Intelligence.

(2) MISSION.

The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged

with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photographic

intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, furnish-

ing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests as can

be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promot-

ing an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental eftort in the ex-

ploitation of photography for intelligence purposes.

(3) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the na-

tional intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence

Objectives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic

detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever

possible, related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence com-

munity photographic intelligence services in support of the national

photographic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish

additional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photo-

graphic data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data

with other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordi-

nated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized

systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available

photographic data.

(1) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support re-

quirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic Intelligence services in

support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized

equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall

provide information about such specialized equipment to

elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or

further adaptation.

(1) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Centes

for photographic intelligence units of U. S. Intelligence Board com-

ponents involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U. S. Intelligence Board,

as appropriate, as to any special security controls required.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and

committees of the U. S. Intelligence Board on matters related to

photographic intelligence exploltation activities.

(4) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 16.

Revised: 16 August 1963

GROUP 1

Encluded deem automarie

damageding and

declanilcation

49

---

## Page 11

13-00000

36000

$ 63

Revised: 16 August 1903

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

DIRECTOR

DEPUTY. DIRECTOR

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

CIA/MPIC

DET

DIA/NPIC

OLE

ASSISTANI FOR ADMINISTRATION

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF

ASSISTANT FOR OPERATIONS

OPERATIONS STAFF

ASSISTANT FOR

PHOTOGRAPHIE ANALYSIS

PHUTOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS GROUP

ASSISTANT FOR PLAYS

AND DEVELOPIAENT

PLANS AND

DEVELOPMENT STAFF

TECHNICAL

INTELLIGENCE

DIVISION

PUBLICATIONS

DIVISION

COLLATERAL

SUPPORT

DIVISION

PRODUCTON

SERVICES

DIVISION

ORGANIZNCION

---

## Page 12

13-00000

ORGANIZATION

H8i-1,3

HR 1-73e

C. SASIONAL PHOTOGRATIC INTEREO RENTER

(1) MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged

with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photo-

graphic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort.

furnishing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests

as can be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and

promoting an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the

exploitation of photography for intelligence purposes. (NSCID No. 8)

(2) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the national

intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objec-

tives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail

and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible,

related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence communits

photographic intelligence services in support of the national photo-

graphic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish

addi-

tonal support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data with

other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated

development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized systems for

the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic

data.

(1) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support re-

quirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic Intelligence services in

support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized

equipient for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall

provide information about such specialized equipment to interested

elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or

further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center

for photographic intelligence units of U.S. Intelligence Board. compo-

nents involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U.S. Intelligence Board

as appropriate, as to any special security controls required for photo-

graphic and related materials.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 13.

Revised: 26 September 1966

(308)

Encludent lian cutomorie

daungrading and

deslanitecton

47

---

## Page 13

13-00000

50194 9 6€ C:A

16

Revised: 26 September 1966 ;303!

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

DIRECTOR

NATIONAL

PHOTOGRAPHIC

INTERPRETATION CENTER

SUPPORI STAFF

MANAGEMENT

ASSISTANT FOR

OPERATIONS

ASSISTANI FOR

91O1OGRAPMIC

ANALYSIS

ASSISTANT FOR

TECHNICAL

DEVELOPMIMT

TECHNICAL

INTCLLIGENCE

DIVISION

PUBLICATIONS

DIVISION

INFORMATION

PROCESSING

DIVISION

COLLATERAL

SUPPORT

DIVISION

PRODUCIIOM

SERVICES

DIVISION

---

## Page 14

13-00000

ORGANIZATION

HR 1-11e

e. OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITES

(1) MISSION. The Assistant Director for Special Activities is charged with

the development and operation of certain highly sensitive technical col-

Icction programs.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Assistant Director for Special Activitles, shall:

(a) Develop and operate special projects for the collection of intelligence

by advanced technical means.

(b) Stimulate the exploltation by the Agency of advanced technology to

further the Office's mission.

(c) Conduct research and development in methods for conveying advanced

technical collection devices.

(d) Establish and maintain liaison with appropriate civilian and Govern-

ment agencies in order to keep abreast of developments which might

affect the Office's activitles, capabilities, or requirements.

ORGANIZATION. See organizalion chart, igure 7.

27 March 1964 (182)

GROU

93

---

## Page 15

13-00000

79-E PEZEE

SPECIAL ASSISTANT

FOR LIAISON

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

FOR

SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

DEPUTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

AFR 23

4 39 PM 971

REGULATIONS

GONTROL STAFF

SECURITY STAFF

PROGRAMS STAFF

DEPUTY FOR TECHNOLOGY

DEPUTY FOR FIELD ACTIVITIES

27 March 1994 (182)

OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

HR 1, fig. 7

ADVANCED

PROJECIS

DIVISION

DEVELOPMENT

DIVISION

ENGINEERING

ANALYSIS

DIVISION

CONTRACTS

DIVISION

SUPPORT

DIVISION

OPERATIONS

DIVISION

IMTELLICENCE

DIVISION

MATERIEL

DIVISION

COMMUNICATIONS

DIVISION

OROANIZATION

---

## Page 16

13-00000

ORGANIZATION RECCINDED SIR IIR1-ILe (1425 (617)

DATE 5 OCT 83

Me. OFFICE OF TECHNICAL SERVICE

(1) MISSION. The Director of Technical Service Is responsible for close opera-

tional support of DDO operations through the development, engineering,

testing and evaluation, production, storage, and deployment of equipment

and techniques

L,

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Director of Technical Service

(a) provides equipment, personnel services, and materials in direct sup

port of DDO operations, and certain approved overseas operations of

other member agencies of the U.S. Intelligence Community;

(b) develops, engineers, tests, and manages the production and stock stor-

age of technical equipment for support of clandestine technical op-

erations;

evaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence Community, and performs

such other services as may be directed by the DCI.

ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 7.

10

February 1975 (871)

2 IMPDE

•l BY: 05968

23

SECRET

---

