# 104-10071-10198

## Page 1

104-10071-10198 5 XON DABB

DI FINALLY

FLUTED INTELEMENCE

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR. 23 February 1968

COUNTRY Costa Rica.

DOI

February

1968

SUBJECT Negotiations Between Ludwig Starke

and Rolando Masferrer with a View

U

Toward Mutual Support for Projected

Revolutionary Movements

ACO

SOURCE

Costa Rica, San Jose

FIELD NO

4099

(15 - 23 February 1968)

A high-level member of the National Liberation Party (PLN)

who has access to and the confidence of top leaders of his

His strong identification with the PLN and the

knowledge that his reporting will reach U.S. official

circles probably cause him to present his reporting to the

best advantage of the PLN. He has submitted reltable in-

formation during the past year, but he has been known to

withhold pertinent information. He received the informa-

1.

(Piold Consent:

TDC0314/01096-68 reported that

In dung Otarke Jinenes,

a right-ving ontrealat who 1o tbo

lender of thal nocurity forces of the lovimiento Coara Bica

of tho Antlonal Liberatlor

Pargy (1M), that lo ma making plans and booking support

for a possiblo povo against the Cocto Bican Covermont In

the ovont that it should oppons to ba in dangor of passing

into the lande of loitioto.

To that ond Atarto ma nogo

tiatin with synpathetic groupa outoido of Costa Bica.

Ho

mn 1n Indiroct contact vith Rolando Esolorror, a Cuban

oxile involved in plotting against the Covermonto of Batti

and Cuba, through Fornando Molo Yontanilla, & Cuban oxile

1n Conta Bica who ma in touch with a priost associated

with kasforrer.)

(20r-04isd)

2. In aid-february Oduber said that ho had contacted

delo, whos ho had known for cons timo, in an effort to loan

more about the negotiations botron Starke and lasterrer, 1n

which lolo had boon acting as an intermediary.

Holo snid

that the objective of the negotiationa va to

work out a

plan whoreby Haitian and Cuban exiles, with Starko'a

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

had costeted Fernando:

B-S-C-B-B-I

DISTRIBUTION

Poet i.

despite into!

SNCI

---

## Page 2

14-00000 -

S-E-C-B-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2-

cooperation, would

use Costa Rican soil an a staging area for

an invasion of Haiti, to overthrow

Prosident Bene Davallet.

If succossiul, Hautorror and his Haitian cohorts would then

supply funde and aresent to Starke for his projected nove

againat the Trejos government.

Hold lator informod Oduber that ho was planning to

go to New York City on 31 Dobruary, ostonaibly to vialt non-

1s to talk with Masiorror and Pathor Diego Bamol Ab1l10

Madrigol Alvaroz, the priost who has roprosanted kasierrer

in the nogotiations, through Molo, with Starko. Halo has

boon commienioned by Starko to ascortain the quantity and

sourco of ars that the laniortor group will nato available

to Starko 11 the group succoods in overthrowing Duvalier.

Bolo also la to find out mat other asslatance the lasterrer

Excup will provide to Starke, how aany Haitian and Cuban

exilos kaniorter will soad to loafe lice, and when they wili

tolo said thst a Conta Bican via already bag been

obtainod for Jacques Hortnglane, & Maltion, to w1l1 be tbe

f1rat of the group of haltion and Cuban outlos to come to

Conta Lica to not up thoir otaging arca.

_ Moringlane' & 1m

Mad obruined by Utarke through lodrigo Armaz Bonilla, wbo

until recontly man the chiel clerk (official mayor) of the

Ministry of Pahlic Security.

(Field Commont:

Boto has the roputation locally of

boing an inveterate intriguor and a boggart.

Tboroforo, bla

vorscity la open to quention. It lo posaible that the infor-

nation ho has given to Odubor la to sono estost enggerated

or distorted.

It lo also ponsible that Starke will 11ad Bolo

to be a loss than trustvortay internodiary.)

Fiold Dissea: Btate Aray CINCSOUTH (aloo sent

and

---

