# 104-10161-10317

## Page 1

104-10161-10317.

SECRET

13 November 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: THE RECORD

04

SUBJECT

: RODRIGUEZ,

7214442

Ent 110 Americo)

on thursday evening, 9 November 1967, at approximately

:45 polo; the sDO reported that they bad received a phone cal

rom Dr. Cassidy (an OMS Contract employee) who was on duty a

the Emergency Ward, Fairfax Hospital reporting that one David

Francisco CORDOVA had been admitted as a DOA from Dulles Airport.

Dr. Cassidy had reported that he recognized several names found

among Mr. Cordova's personal papers which led him to believe

that Cordova was an Agency employee. An SO Indices search of the

name CORDOVA failed to confirm Cordova's Agency affiliation.

The undersigned proceeded to the Fairfax Hospital Emergency

Ward, arriving at approximately 9:15 p.m. Capt. Greer of the

Fairfax County Police Department was contacted and he stated that

although the Subject's papers identified him as Mr. CORPOVA, his

vedding ring and school ring contained the initials EAR oy Afte

examining the subject's identification, it became apparent that

the Subject was indeed associated with

the Agency in some manner,

but his true name could not be determined. The SDO was contacted

and requested to alert the CS duty officer and request that he

try to identify the alias from CS records. Richard Hanna, WH

Security Officer, was also alerted because Subject was obivously

a Latin type and was destined for Miami, Florida.

3. Capt. Greer advised that the Subject had been at Dulles

International Airport and went to the First Aid room complainine

of severe chest pains. He was placed in an ambulance and was stil

conscious when the ambulance left the airport. However, on his

arrival at Fairfax Hospital at 8:30 p.m. he was pronounced dead.

4.

After several fruitless phone calls in attempting to

SECRET

GROUP T

Encinted trun autamatis

downgrading sod

dechesticatien

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Page 2

=0...

identify the. Subject, the undersigned contactedl

(469-6389) after a check with SDO showed he was an Agency employee.

Mr. Lassin was provided a description of the subject and the ou..

Initials EAR)N4 He identified the Subject as Emilio RODRIGUEZ jand

reconmended that the Chief/WH, Mr. William Brol, be notified.

Mr. Brol was contacted, advised of the tenative identification of

the Subject, and requested that someone who knew the Subject be

dispatched immediately to view the remains and make a legal

identification.

Mr. Brol stated that this would be done.

also Informed that Richard Hanna/SO/Wi was enroute to the Hospital

to assist and had alerted JMWAVE Of the Subject's death.

Capt. Greer, Fairfax Police Department was advised that

Subject's true Identity was Emilio Rodriguez) and that we would

have someone view the remains and make a legal identification. He

was requested to allow Subject's fellow workers to notify the

family, in which action he concurred. Capt. Greer stated that an

autopsy would be performed and as soon as the coroner determined

the cause of death, the body could be claimed by relatives.

6. Mrs. Nancy Hackley, Registrar, Fairfax Hospital, was

requested to change all records to reflect the Subject's true

name, since he had originally been admitted as Cordova. Mrs.

Hackley, who had been extremely cooperative, stated she could

change all records except the form which reflected that the

Subject had been pronounced dead upon arrival at the Hospital.

This form had been signed by a doctor who had gone off duty.

She suggested that Mr. Foster, Hospital Adwinistrator, be contacted

as he was the only one who could destroy this form.

She stated

• that upon legal identification of Mr. Rodriguez, she would release

all of the Subject's personal effects toothe undersigned.

CONCERNS

PERSONAL

INFORMATION

RELATIVE TO

AN INDiViDUALS

OThER InAN

RaDRiquEz

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

Page 3

8. During the attempt to identify the Subject, a member of

the press called the hospital to inquire about the DOA. Fortunately,

the undersigned had received tremendous cooperation from the staff

of the Emergency Ward and the reporter was told that nothing

unusual was occuring.

In view of this inquiry by the Press,

the

SDO was told to alert Jake Goodwin, Public Affairs Office.

9. Richard Hanna, WH/SO called JMWAVE at about 1:00 a.Il. and

notified them of the identification of the Subject

hey would wait until the morning and notify Mra. (Rodriguez ptated

hanna also notified the Chief/WH Division of the positive identification

of the Subject.

10. Mr. Foster, Fairfax Hospital Administrator, was contacted

on 10 November 1967 regarding the possibility of having all traces

of the name Cordova removed from the Hospital records. He stated

that it would not be possible to destroy or change a form which

was signed by a hospital physician in which he pronounced the

roster stated that this form in effect

was a legal document that he did not feel he could tamper with.

However, he stated that such records are confidential and would

not be released without consent of the deceased's relatives or a

court order.

11. Detective Sanders, Homicide Squad, Fairfax County Police

Department contacted the undersigned on 10 November 1967 and stated

that the autopsy which he witnessed disclosed that the subject

had died from an "acute coronary thrombosis." He stated a death

certificate would be issued showing death from natural causes and

that the coronor had released the body.

This information was

passed to Hanna who stated he would call JMWAVE and advise that

arrangements could be made to have the Subject's body returned

to Florida.

12. An inventory, copy attached, was made of the Subject's

effects and all of his belongings were given to Richard Hanna,

SO/WH.

5 But nee

john A. Biddiscombe

Special Assistant

Personnel Security Division

Attachment:

As Stated

JAB/ SjI

SECRET

---

