# 104-10062-10044

## Page 1

104-10062-10044

SECRET

14 June 1976

SUBJECT: LORENZ, Ilona Marita

1.

As the result of an article on Subject in the

13 June 1976 New York Daily News, LA/COG was asked to

check, IP trace, CI/OA and Security Office check, LORENZ

has never been employed by the Agency.

2 .

There are several references, sourced to the FBI

and DCD, LORENS is a self-admitted former girl friend of

Fidel CASTRO.

She claims that she met Fidel while on a trip

to Cuba with her father, Captain of the North German Lloyd Lin

in February 1959, became infatuated with Fidel and styed

in Cuba.

She served as Fidel's mistress and tautame to

the U.S. with Fidel's party in April 1959. She learned

at that time & that she was pregnant by him..

She returned

to Havana a short time k thereafter and had a miscarriage.

She claims that she was safe drugged taken to a hosttal

and in

abortion was performed./ Because of his reaction to the pregan

she turned against him. LORENZ returned to aparthe U.S.

from Cuba on

9 December 1959. Becaue of the bad abortion

in September 1959.

operation performed on LORENZ in Cuba, LORENZ was operated on

on 20 January 1960 at the Rosevelt Hospital in New York City

bya DE. Hanniar.

3.

It is said that LORENZ apbeared on the TODAY's Show

14 June 1976, She reportedly made the statement that she

was associated with Frank STURGIS, and that she had placed

some posion pills in he face cream for the purpose of

A 24 Apr 1961 FBI document states that

# on 8 January 1961 LORENZ, STURGIS, ALex RORKE ANS

were to meet that evening and attempt a unity meeting of anti-

Castro Cubans.. The unity meeting was. sponsored by Luis CONTE

Ague are nothings

Aguero, one of the leading anti-Castro Cubans. I have

uncovered nothing acto date concerning an assassintation

Chris Hopkins

---

