# 104-10170-10024

## Page 1

104-10170-10024

DO NOT REPAODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

SEGRET

15.N0V/467

15-44:

See Marlo LAdO: 09. 159 35

MarL iDEA, Faitor farcher T 3:18

sa Teine aiutans Mi. 300ka Chne te seri! llie to dirite tre

corrersailri 1ne loo partão me 11ist jari valie te vasiel ?? diesuer

19194:301315

io tra Geles 11rat anim! la, Rocca about de priries of hig.

1010:39:109. Rosa rapilel shai telr sourice Inciulag Dis peiaer821058

int tse caba- covenseit, the Cubac Geleral Siate, Targars did Virtera.

Rita sids dinelcasd a report wlich be bal receirrà tra diba or 11

tra: the d'orilea balds dirmatial st. RaDa de Saria (31t1ecitou) Sag

La Granis aro delag sored to tho airport at Haiora. 15. Eelis arked

Reche buo ho hai garlied al the figure 89 for the marior of Tailasd

¡EsTe ugo a Moisi evitaLe My te. DRE of the alsalies reported by thair

So papie sa custod the nientlas as they presed dires soliA 59 eDe

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

---

## Page 2

14-00000

obrious difficulty would appear to be that the airallon

could be counted tusce, ind an soreral people were re

portlag on the mintiles, "ach could have reported a

nestlo ol a different ulro, Roche astood this Wal&

probles but stated they had aared their sources to ente.

mato the length of the minslles they reported, and that

those entluates vary between 30 BId 40 foot. Roche De

Ilevos their sources are reporting valld laforestion u

they are the Bans sources tho roported what le conolder.

Accurato InforstIon on niusilen 1-1 months goi 800L

thos quoted Iron the 12 October 1982 lasue of "The Cuben

Report", = nonslatior publiated by tha dRE.

"Dur1ny the sonths of June, July and Auguat, soro

then olgity never soriot shipa docked at Cuban porta

carrying non and var mtorial, that included ground-to

alr rockoto, and suldad MIaa1los VIth & SaIgO Of Over

2, 000 a1 leg."

Rochs added that as the information was corroct in the past.

ho belloved the intormation vas correct at tho present time.

Rochs oxplatsed that the reporta tore honest, "ere not 1a-

flated, and aro not baing used for propagands purposos.

3. Inader to taka advantago of Rochs's presence 1n

Mashlagtos, . Rolms suggested that lochs tato the rest

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

of tho

morslas will two specialista and piapolet on a nap

the underground ainalle alten which they have been reporting..

Roche annered ho would do glad to do this, but that he vau

BOt the Dost sun for tie JOD as 1t ViS Sagol Losaso, ho 11

presently 1o Minal, h0 had previously vorkod on those re

ports and piapointed the location with Ala Agency contacts

In M1as1.

1, Mr. Holas then sado arrangonente for Colonel

AlDorE Davies dad ir, VIllian TIcuoll to mot and discuss

the subjact safar with 1. Rocha and kr. Lass. During

this nooting 14 Ir. Holma' contorence room, Roche plottod

the locations on a map of Cuba and save Colonel Darles.

copios of the Inforutlos which to had carled with hia.

Colonol Darlos stated ho rould chock tho inforeation and

Toild toward any further quastlone aboat this inforustion

to itml to to discusood with then there. Mr. Rocha again

apologised for not bolng able to provide more dotalla but

SERIA MINCOd tRAI I. LOSINO 1N MINEI VAS SICS DOTO PaSIlIAr

wita the details of those roposta.

HESTOS D. BANCHIT

TTY/PA - PROP

i areas

---

