# 104-10180-10016

## Page 1

104-10180-10016

UNCLASSIFIED

US

ROUTINO AND RECORD SHEET

CANFIDENTIAL

(7

SECRET

03

AC/ME/K/CI-FI

•DO June 1952

GATE

BATALA

DC, MH DiTtalon

FETUEN TO CIA

Eackground Use Only

¿Do Not Reprocuce

1].

MEN 610 ME EJ SECRET

CORFIDENTIAL

701-272262

IRTEEN AL

USE OuLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

175%

MEMORUNDON TOR: Deputy Elei, iN Diviaian

SEBJECT

REFERENCE

: Mooring i

Norman HOTHMAY

ard CaT=d M. M-CONNEL

8 Tour drai directise of Murslay, 24 Juse 1961"

1.

On mursday, 29 June 1961, I mo: vir. Vorm: RUTIMAN and

Darid MeCONNKli in the office o!

the Deputy At:orre: Gonerai to

evaluate, per your directive, Mr. ROTHMAl'S cinin 10 operational.

assets 1naide Cuba and elsewhere

In the caribbean area

The

It was agreed by the

participants of this meting that Mr. ROTHMAN wouid return to

Man1. oa Friday, 30 June, and Chat Mr. MeCCANE: Would calephone

ma at the offico of the Depily Altorey Cereral an Hedranday,.

5 Jaly, for our evaluation of Mr. ROTEMAT's operatianal potential

In Caban affaire.

2. Mr. AcCONVELI requested to noet vich me privatoly 1n the

conference room.

He scrised ne that he was a leading pol1tical

figure in the Democratis Party machine in Norà, Carollin, tra: he

vas acquainted with rumerog Governmen: figures in Mastineton

(Including Robert Ferrecy, General Taylor, and Jerera it: Fleety,

that he was a corporate tax larger who vas diirg very weir ln his

home town of Charlotte, sorth Caroiina, and

that he was concerned

over the embarrassione to te kennedy aininistration caused by

the Cuban "flasco" Ko lurcher auvided no that-hog Interest in

thia case was that of an American antlois to fight cormonian in

the westerr. Reniaphere and l0 ensure dia: the C.S. Grer:rert

mado maximin use of operatioral potential as represented in the

person and claims of Mr. ROTHMAN. Mr. MiCONNBii nored tral,

according LO ROTFMIN'S SOUTY, POTIMAN had asseie and capabliities.

whica would arbie hia (ROt MIN) to destroy

the arms 117s 0n.9he

plantation of ex-President CARDENAS of Mexico, to se: up parationai

bases in the Tacater at a cost of $50 to 51, 000, ic sabotage targeti

Ln Cuba identtried by the Ü.S. Governant, and es provide poslave

Intelligance on the actiricles

of Cntress Continia: groups 15 tha

Weatern Renisphere.

2....

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

3. I anod the peinto 110?0d by Mi. McCOrE es dobria

ME- ROTHM on hia cinino of assola vich cas be used agairat

cuba and other rargets 10 the Western Heristhere. Mr. ROTENAN

paid no that ho vas an tierican citizer, born on 26 December 1924,

at New York City, that he runs the ber in the Bel Air foral,

Piani, Florida, that he vas furnerio the oner of "Sans Soul, *

A nigoraiva tr Harana, nad that he ired at 425 Surfaide Boulevard

1n Min!,: Pord: During the laterier Mr. ROTAN, when questioned

on those points of potential liated by Mi. McCONNEli above, mde

the following atatemento!

He 1s a dedicated anti-Cornist and is particularly

'Intereited in vortire agilant CASTLO who recuted three of

•. Ala cione, denr Irlends.! ther naked for the namea of these

frienda, Mr. ROTENAN was not adie to

five these in me.

After ten miutes,

'he named these friends as Rogello COATE

(war name - "Francisco"); Sort NARIN, and Irigento FERNANDEZ.

He has an operational capability to destroy ares dumps

which he claims ure locited on the finca of ex-president

CARDENAS of Meaico.

He has contact with agent agseta located

In Herco through durtaln 'Morican friends ston he rarised

to 1 dentity.

He added that La had made contact as racently

AB-Lour to

five months ago

with these Median friards.

He la very fantliar with she carrair and peopio ci

the fucatan paninsula.

itan asied for the date of his last

volt to the Tucatan,

he said that he had bean there for

two days at some time 1n 1959. He added that 'he had constructed

an air strip at sone point in tie lucasar which vas capable

of taldng two B-20's and two P-51's.

He said that no one

orms of the location or exiatence of this particular air sulp.

. Whan aakod who had built the strip and when 1: was bulle,

Mr. ROTHMAN Bald that the strip had beer built by Indian

stande-ine 1440-p067704-046 to him chat certainiy these

Iodlan sriends would know of 148 exiatence, he said that they

vere loyal to him and that no ore in the provincial or natioral

governmants of Mexico knew of this atrip.

when asked 1f a

plane had ever landed on this strip, Mr. ROTHMAN suld Uhat

ore B-26 had landed there.

han asked hot he managed to

provide fuel and maintenance for aircraft lucated a: this

8L21p, Mr. ROTHN vas not ablo, or chose nor, to fire 20

erset reply.

---

## Page 4

• d.

Ro 1a vall acquainted with Sanchez ARUO. He sald

that he mora troquenty vies ARANJO and corsicers b1m a

good personal feland. iben questioned; Mi: ROTTLY said

that he had luat set XI. ARATOO :s17 weeks ago. He sad not

ablo to fare the home address of dr. ariroo...

Fe said that

Mr. BOTFUN euld. that he had the personnel and

•ompabiliiies to atlack or sabotago ay larget of our choosine

In Ouba.. He nald that he had a besic plas for the susasain

He sald that his pias called for in

alr atrock vita nepalm agalast CASTRO at e time theo theme

Prime Moluter Was addressing one of his relites In Havana.

Ho sald that he had one hundred ptlote who had participatod

1n the Lavasion of Cube and who vere now aking employment

an flyers for the Congolese A1r Force.

He refused to. Identity

any of the pilota by name.

when it was pointod out to bu

that the names of those piloto askire employment in lie Cargo

were a nutter of sihile rocord, to onid shit those pilota

In whos he was particularly interested were not making

application for such exployment.

Ho aald that he had mary agento going in and out of

When asked how many agenta he controlled, Mr. POTENAN

was not ablo to give ar exit figure.

hon many agento he sent into Cuba during the last your, he

was not able to give an exact figure.

When asked how mazy

agenta ho vas 1n contact with this date, Mr. BOTAN gaTo the

When I asked hou these agento vere able to.

travel back and lorth In vies of the diffioultles in mirg

trequent visite to Cuba, Mr. ROTDUN said that his agente

were in the tourist travel bureaus of in export impart

bassesses, and antared the States via third countrios.

naied at what date he had last had contact with

these agents,

Mr. BOTH was dot able to fire an eract dato.

wald that with theen unraned assete abore, he had the

oapability to make money archanges between the United Statea

and Caba, and offered to bo of servica to the U.S. Government

In ary repuirmat along thia line.

into carada "tran Caba.

He said that he knew of mary Chinase Comunists going

When asked to identity the source of

into Information and the nerds of those Chinese, Mr. ROTHMAN

wald that he and not brought ary record informatos win bin

and did not fanl he coald be asked to produco his factual data

at this tine.

.::

---

## Page 5

He added that he alao In

Commando groups In Il

tro yinie ago. When

•those Chinase Com

to do so.

run runatag set

meot.' 'Fo sald

LINES

on behalf al the Tru

would track the stuff.

ha (Mr. BCTENT) would

Montag of

He said that. he had purc

which un the Mrit bont

pport the underground in

Cubm. He added that ho

merything that CHA planned

su art operations,

I for the Lavan

Ho sald that ho ras a close friend of John Abbos

Garch, Chlor of the Dominican Republio Socurity.

He said

that his last vlalt to the Donirtons Bapubiie was in 1959.

Ho onld that ha had acoess to people in the Dominican Republle.

He did not Identity further these assata nor did ho 1dantlty

the mana of comication to then.

At the concluaion of the intaryler ith t. ROTAAl,

D. AcColdual anted to soe no privately.

During. this laterylen,

Ar. NoCONElI agaln apparised that his Interest in this case vaa

edmply that of s good Amrican the ms interestod 1n flihting

Communian .

DEr, MoCONiKI sald that, in his opinion, an individual

with Mr. BOTNAl's character and background cartainly ahould be

manal in the plover off fight agatrut Commatan. Ho Calt that.

1t nd est bo to the sational Interest to make une of Mr. ROTHMA

againat CASTRO and againat Cormuntan In the Western Henlophere,

and fira procodonse to thie une over any Intent to prosecute

Mr. ROTTMAN for Tolation of Fedaral lana. Again MI. cCONNEL

nand bla acquaintances In the Departmant of Defonso, In the

Department of rustico and in the White House.

He added, at thl

tim, that he mas estar tuning the thought of entering the addria-

tratian In Bone arletal capaolty.

---

## Page 6

comment

I BOrIur did not satiety no that he has

ontrato taone agent and material annero to which be layo claim.

do

not bellere it la in the Interent of the U.S. Ooternat to

diets with , Bormail thee partloular claim. I bellen

inite ahoula be adviied of our evaluition f ir. ROTEN'"

mataly. I alao bellito that ir lito o a soprestativo

Brem the

Departmant of furtico should advine Nr. MoconcE that

the Gover

Lndeed

forntion wild begiten

03

Intributtons

Addr sampe

1 - C/HEA

1 - WHA/CI

-ta wind visions iea...

---

