# 104-10173-10132

## Page 1

104-10173-10132

SECRET

дія

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

- I. I phoned Paul Burns, Special Assistant to the DDO, and

said that we had some leads that could be follöwed by whoever has

the action In the DDO in tracking down Hunt's activities during the

fall of 1964, when he was alleged to have been engaged in surveillance

activities of Barry Goldwater.

2. I said that our files showed Hunt was in DO Division (Burns

was not familiar with that title, but recognized it as the predecessor

of FR Division) and in August 1964 was assigned to the Washington

field office. I suggested that Stan Gaines, who was Deputy Division

Chief of DO Division and now DCOS might be in a position to

give a few groups on what Hunt was supposed to be doing then.

suggested that he be queried by cable.

Burns said Gaines is staying

on under contract for a while, so would continue to be available.

3. I said that Fig Coleman was on the iberian desk when the

Hunt assignment to Madrid was brought up in 1964 and when Hunt

went to the field in 1965.. He could give the background on the assign-

merit, which seems to have been through Karamessines at Helme!

direction. His recollection would give leads. I told him that Coleman

became Cost

Jlater, after Hunt left Spain, and could provide

information on what Hunt did not do for the Agency during that period.

I suggested that both Helms and Karamessines should be queried.

I gave as a possible press treatment that Hunt was engaged in

domestic operations (something Senator Baker is pursuing) and that

his assignment to Spain after the clection could be presented as giving

him time to cool off. I thought we had to pursue the matter to be

sure we know the facts.

I asked Burns to be sure that ive are on information distribution

of cables to the field on this. given our assigned responsibility for

keeping files on Watergate.

He said we are on the PLMHPLANK fOr

messages to Helms. He would advise the action officer. I sáid we are

available for any help we can give.

40. Buckin

S. D. Breakinfidge

---

## Page 2

SECRET

9 May

1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO

SUBJECT

: Watergate File Research - Final Report

The files of the immediate office of the Chief. OPS/OSG

have been checked for material relevant to the subject of this

The check included chronological files of.communt-

cations of which I was the author while assigned to

in the period July 1970 to. July 1973: Nothing pertinent was found

I have attempted to recollect any other details which

in cia hase no documenterton are resets which i recal

The only points which I recall .but

n. which l. have no.

a ..

There were occasional joshing

inquiries made of me

by American residents of

about the reported presence

in Spain of f. Howärd Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was

that I knew only what I had heard rumored.

For the records

at no time did Hunt contact.me, and I have never known of his

having

tried to contact any Station personnel in

during

the period 1970-73.

I made no effort personally to ascertain

whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by.

any Station member.

A Station officer, possibly

assigned. tol

was given some information by an

informant in 1972 concerning reported activities in Spain

by Robert Vesco.

I suggested that the information be given

informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief,

John

Oliver.

That officer was charged with keeping abreäst of

developments related to Vesco.

The Station did not pursue

that subject, as frecall, because it was not a topic of

reportable interest, according to requirements of the period.

E2- IMPCET

-Ci

BY 058759

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

-2-

-SUEJCCT: üstergate Flic Restarchi - Final Report (cont'd)

There is no other employee assigned to my irmediate

office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and

personalities.

Rolut 2. Duen

Robert E.

O:ven

Chief, OPS/0SG

---

## Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED

L

USE ONLY

C CONFID_ ATIAL

' SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD: SHEET

Director of Finance

1212 Key Building

TO: (Offee designarion room-amation, onl

bustlinig;

Batt

27 February 1974

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

MCMO

517

FORWARDIO

Inspector General

25. 24 HOS.

Rulinidge

3.

- wisfile

7.

10.

14.

15.

---

## Page 5

SECRET

8. 88 FEG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Inspector General

SUBJECT

: "Howard Hunt

At the recent request of the Deputy Director for

Management and Services, the Office of Finance has searched

its records to determine if we could find any payment to

Mr. Hunt in an amount of approximatcly $30,000 that required

no accounting.

2.. We have searched the following records:

a. The expense runs for the period July 1964 to

June 1973 for

the

immediate Uffice of the DCI,

the immediate Office of the DD/P: FI Staff

or Staff, CA-Staff and the Office: of Security

We have checked various items that were re-

flected in these: expense records but have

identified nothing relating to Mr. Hunt.

b.:

The

station, JNWAVE and FR/Washington

Office accountings

to determine it there were

funds passed by the Stations to Mr.. Hunt during

the year he

served under non-official cover in

Madrid.

We could find no payment to Mr.

Hunt

either

in his true name or his two identified

pseudonyms.

Mr. Hunt's travel claims for the period

1960-1972 and have found nothing in these

travel claims that were

not consistent with

normal travel expenses, l.e., transportation

per diem.

d:

We made a specific analysis of Mr.

Hunt's

advance

account for the period he was under

non-official cover (July

'65-Sept "66) and have

E2

IMPDET

CL BY:

006567

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Howard Hunt

determined that $33,500 was advanced to him

for travel

and transportation of household

goods

to and from Madrid with one trip to

Paris

for he and.his family to renew their

Spanish visas.

All of this advance was fully

accounted for. However, in his accounting,

one item appeared unusual.

It was an

expenditure of $1,600 for a sensitive

operation which was approved for

write-off by Mr.

Desmond Fitzgerald on i June 1966 without

further

accounting.

Also, we confirmed that no other Agency advance accounts

were

established for Mr. Hunt during this period.

4.

waS

At the beginning of his non-official cover tou the

necessary to establish a bank account in his name.

EUR Division accordingly requested e open an account at the

Chase Manhattan Bank in Nr.

Hunt's name to receive all non-

salary payments.

Nr. Hunt had an account at Riggs National

Bank to receive

his salary and allowance payments).

The

following deposits were made to the account during 1965 and

1966:

Account opened:

•13 July 1965

22 July 1965

IS September 1965

6 October 1965

19 July 1966

13 July 1965

$10,000

5,000

5,000

5,000

5,000

$30,000

All of the above have been accounted for by submission

of travel and transportation accountings.

le feel at this time without specific guidelines that

further searching would be sonewhat fruitless.

One strange

aspect of the non-official cover assignment

in

Madrid is that

all the costs nore charged to the support

allotment of the

EUR Division which is not normal as non-official cover people

are usually assigned to a project.

It is unusual to have a

case officer abroad for one ycar on an opcrational assigment

nichout hin incurring operational expenditures.

• 2 -

SEGACT

---

## Page 7

SECRET

fame

SUBJECT:

Howard Hunt

The Office of Finance has not found operational

expenditures except for the $1,600

mentioned

above.

Therefore, it is suggested that Mr. Karamessines be questioned

as to a project or projects to which Mr. Hunt's operational

expenditures if incurred would have been charged.

Another possible course of action is to request the

Director to approve my

asking

Tat Chase

Manhattan Bank to provide a transcript of all entries into

Mr. Hunt's Chase Nanhattan Bank account.

We are currently reviewing: records of all cashier's

checks prepared and issued by Monetary to determine if any

were payable to Mr. Hunt.

finished by the end of the week.

Hopefully this effort will be.

Thomas Bi.

Diréctor of Finance

SECRET

---

## Page 8

COMRDEMTAL

- je

20 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Howard Hunt

1. I spoke with. Fig Coleman about Hunt's assignment to Spain®

I.had spoken with him. back in August when we were inquiring into

reported activities involving Mrs. Hunt.

Z,: Coleman said that he got out of the War College in May 1964

(by which he fised the time), and took over the Iberian desk. Bill

Ryan was C/EUR (or was it WE Division at the time). In early autumn

Ryan said that he had just been informed by the DDP (Karamessines)

that Hunt was to be assigned toL

Jas DCOS, as a directed assign-

-ment by Helms. A memo was prepared and sent to the COS, L

(now retired). There was nothing further for about a month when Ryan

called Coleman in and showed him i RYBAT letter from

stating

that Ambassador Stanley J. Woodward would not have Hunt in the

Embassy®

Woodward had been the Ambassador to Uruguay when Hunt

was COS Montevideo, He had a low opinion of Hunt and was counting

the days until Hunt left. The President of Uruguay visited President

Eisenhower in the States, at which time he requested a personal favor

that Hunt be reassigned to Montevideo. • So Hunt took another tour.

Woodward was outraged, and had his reverge in 196$ when Hunt was

to be sent as DCOS C

4. After a couple of months--carly 1965--Ryan called Coleman

in and, observing that there was more than one way to skin a cat,

told him that Hunt was going to Spain under nonofficial cover. This

didn't require anything special, Ryan saying that he didn't know

much about it.

It came to him from Karamessines on Helms' order.

Hunt was to have the telephone number of the COS, but he would do

nothing for the station. Hunt was to submit administrative vouchers

for reimbursement of his expenses and they were to be paid. Coleman

" said he never saw Hunt before he went out. He knows that there was

no operational reporting, to indicale that Hunt was doing anything:

---

## Page 9

COMFBENTTAL

The vouchers were not large, although the documentation was poor.

Coleman raloed the question with Ryan about his signing off, and

Ryan said he could talk to Karamessines. if ho wished. Because

Coleman had a close personal association with karamessines he:

did just that. He was told by Karamessines that he didn't know much

"about it eithor--"Helms said send him out." He was instructed to go

ahcad..

"In carly July 1966 (4 July) Coleman went to Madrid. He

had a ten day turnover with

Hunt had already gone and

he did not see him.said he didn't know what Hunt did, but

that Coleman need not vorry because he was gone.

6. Several months ago |

was at a seminar at which

Ambassador Woodward was also present.

At the time he asked

about funt.:

Woodward said it might still be dragged into the press.

Tad Saule had been after Woodward about the Hunt assignment to

Spain. Coleman observed that Szulc did have a long article on Hunt

in the New York Times, and the Spain assignment ivas mentioned,..

but without any conclusions as to its sipificance.

7. Coleman said the RYBAT file of C/EUR may have something on

the event, but not much. A letter out and the reply, but not much more.

4.J. Ruct

S. D. Breckinridge

---

## Page 10

22 february 1974

I6 File 1! Tub 38

MENORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: E. Hovard Munt--Madrid Assigument

1.

On 22 February 1974, Nr. Frederick N. Evaris

and the undersigned interviered ir. Edvard Ryan,

Chief, Staff D,

Deputy Director for Operations,

on

the subject of Mr. E. Howard Hunt.

the period

of Nr. Hunt's assignment as a Contract are A agent

to Madrid between July 1965 and September 1966, Mr.

Ryan had been the Deputy Chief of the Western

European

Division, Deputy Director for Plans.

The purpose of

the intervieir was to determine if Mr. Ryan had any

infornacion bearing on the matter of the operational

assignment of Mr. Hust during this period.

2.

Ryan stated that the assigment of Mr.

Hunt both

to the Buropean Division and to Madrid was

handled without benefit of the routine processing

procedures

through the Western Europcan Division

Nr. Hund's assignment was coordinated and directed

by Nr. Thomas Karamessines, the Assistant Deputy Director

for Plans.

With regard to operational duties,

Nr. Ryan

was unavare of any

specific project or target

for Mr.

Hunt:

Mr. Ryan made the

specktic observation that if

Nr. Hunt produced positive intelligence on the Iborian

target during this period the officials responsible

for this effort within the Western Luropean Division

vere totally unavare of it.

•3.

Nr. Pyan stated that most of his knovlodye of

Hunt's activity and the nature of his assignnent

during this period came nore through hearsay than.

direct official knowledge.. For example,

he cited tlic

cornent nade by

a mutual

acquaintance of his and dr.

Hunt's

tO

the effect that Mr. Hunt stated that while

in Madrid he

was

going to "play golf and write books."

Mr. Ryan ras asked specifically!

whether or not he was

---

## Page 11

under

the impression that ir. Hunt's writing activities

scre either being

encouraged or subsidized directly

by this Agency

in any diricial titort.

Mo. again re.

sponded that

he was personally not arare of any such

arrangenent.

He added as an expression of personal

opinion that Mr. Hunt had no operational function and

was simply granted the opportunity to write books for

his. on personal gain at Government expense during this

period:

two teste

Lawrence J. Howe

---

## Page 12

TO

DONE CHECK CLASS

L'ALISSIFIED

TION TOR ANO VOTION

•FIDANTIAL

STANIFT

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME ANO ADDRESS

DATE

Mr. Howe

6

ACTICH

APPROVAL

COMMENT•

CONCURRENCE

Remarks

DIRECT. REPLY

DISPATCH.

FILE:

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

BECOMMENDATION

SETUAN

SIGNATURE

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADORESS AMO PHONE NO.

0/1G/2E24.Hgs./5527

LNCHASSIFIND

pass to

237

lino previois rilitions

CONFIDINTAL TX

DATE

02. Feb 74

SECHET

(40)

---

## Page 13

1d-0d0d

-11

SEBRET

117:

I6 File 10, Tale 32

22 February 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with Sam Halpern

I: I met with Sam Halpern for about 20 minutes this morning

in GG10, where he is cleaning up some details before he goes to

his new assignment as DC/DCD. I told him generally about our

attempt to reconstruct Howard Hunt's assignments and financial

transactions, and asked him particularly for recollections ho may

have öf Hunt's assignment in Spain in mid-1965 to the fall of 1966.

2.

Halpern said that he has no recollection about such an

assigament.

In June 1965 he moved from WH Division with Des

FitzGerald when he became the DD/P. At about that time

Halpern's father died and he was in New York for the funeral

and ten days of religious observations following that." He was back

in mid-June. and in and out from then on as he got ready to attend

the National War College which began in August. ' He did not roturni

to that office until the end of June 1966.

Halpern observed that during this period Karamessines

was ADDP with Helms moving up to ba DDCI. He thought it entiroly

possible that Helms and Karamessines could have handled this

on their own.

4.

Halpern said that Evan Parker had come into the office

of the DD/P shortly before Helms became DDCI, and had returned

from Honolulu for that purpose. He stajed on for Fit Gerald until

Halpern returned from the National War College.

He suggested

someone might talk to Evan Parker who may have known something

abnut il (although ha may not). He also suggested talking to Georgia.

#S! S. D. Erectiaridga

S. D. Breckinridge

872257

=12918 CL nO: 3180

---

## Page 14

I6 Felo 12, Tels Ni

21 Fobruary 1974

MEHORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Watergate--Frank A. O'Nalley

1. At 3 p.m. on the afternoon of 19 February 1974,

NT.

Frederick N. Evans and Lawrence J. Howe interviewed

It. Frank A. O'Nalley at his residence, 6419 Lakeview

Drive, Falls Church, Virginia.

Mr. O'Malley retired

from this Agency in June of 1972.

Prior to retirement

Mr. O'Malley was an officer in the Extornal Employment

Assistance Branch, Ketirement Activities Division of

the Office of Personnel.

It was Mr. O'Malley's function

to assist personnel retiring from this Agency in finding

post-retircment cmployment.

In this capacity Nr. O'Malley

had been instrumental in the planent of Mr. E.

Howard

Hunt in the Robert R. Mullen public relations firm..

Thé

purpose of this intervier was to attempt to determine if

additional information could be developed fron Ne: O'Malley

with rogard to the placement of Mr.. Hunt with the Mullen

Company.

Mr. O'Malley began the interview by recalling

the naturs of his past Agency associations both with Mr.

Hunt and the Mullen Conpany. Mr. O'Malley stated that

prior to assuming his responsibilities in the Office of

Personnel he had served with Central Cover Staff in the

area dealing with the funding of covert action projects.

In this capacity he had become familiar with the acti-

vities of Nr. Hunt wile Mt. Hunt functioned on the Covert

Activitics Staff primarily in the propaganda fiold.

O'Mallcy stated that he first came

in contact with the

Mullen Company when he was attenpting to find an organi-

zation to handle the public relations effort of a covert

Agency activit) known as the Frce Cuba Conmittee.

Mr.

O'Malley related that he had arranged this cover through

the Christianforn Organization

and that his duties in-

volved all aspecis of the funding of this activity.

Mr.

O'Malley described the nature of his working relationship

---

## Page 15

with dr. Robort R. Mullen as being close and cordial.

Nit. OMalle) stated

that Mr.

Mullen ss in the hubit

of confiding

to hin irfornation concerning other Mullen

business. contacts and projects.

In response to a

specific question, ir. O'Nalley stated that during the

poriod of his contact wich the Huller Company dealing

with the Free Cuba Comnittee, Mr. Mullen told him the

Howard Hughes Organization was a client of the concern.

3.

Mr. O'Malley reiterated his previous statements

that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement

assistance through the Office of the Executive Director,

then Colonel L. K. Whité.

Mr. O'Nalley stated that in

view of Nr. Hunt's interests in the public relations

field, it was thought advisable. to pat Mr. Hunt in touch

with Mr. Robert Mullen for the purpose of gaining the

benefit

of Mr. Mullen's guidance.

Mr. O'Malley recalled,

after the

initial meeting, Mr. Mullen mentioned having

met Nr. Hunt some years previously in Paris, France.

Nr. O'Malley's office. arranged interviews with various

organizations including Reader's Digest and the Kennecott

Copper Company.

Through the offices of the Nullen Company

an intervier was arranged with the General Foods Corpora-

tion,

Mullen client.

Mr. O'Malley stated there was

disappointment that Mr. Hunt had been unsuccessful in

"selling himself" during any of these interviews

and that

no job offers had resulted.

In response to a question

as to whether or not executive level interest was still

being shown in Mr. Hunt's post-enployment placement,

Mr. O'Malley recalled that Mr. Richard Helns, then

Director of Central Intelligence, was listed as a charac-

ter rcference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Mr.. Holms

signed a letter of recommendation to the Kennecott Copper

Company on

Nr. Hunt's behalf. Mr. O'Malley recalled being

contacted in the last month of dir. Hunt's Agency service by

Mr. Mulion, who stated that a decision had been made to.....

expand their operations. In view of this expansion, Mr.

Mullen had decided he would hinself offer Mr. Hunt a job.

Me. Mullen had stated that lie was interested in having Mr.

Hunt begin work inmediately.

However, Mr. O'Malley re-

called

that Mr. Hunt completed retirenent fornalities and

actually started work for the Mullen Coapany'japproximately

•a weck to 10 days later.

2

jo-s

---

## Page 16

Mr. Opalley stated that contact was maintained

with de. Hunt while at the Milien Company

on 3 continuing

basis, because Mr. O'ohlley was interested in dir. Hunt

for possible refcial or other Ayency

retirces.

Mr.

O'Malley also understood that there was Cover and Con-

nercial Staff interest in the Mullen Conpany, ard that

Mr. Hunt became

instrumental in discussing screral aspects

of the cover operations

in his capacity as an officer of

the company.

Nr. O'Malley recalled rcferring various

Agency officers to Mi. Hunt for guidance when these indi-

viduals expressed an interest in entering the public

relations field.

Mr. O'Malley did recall disappointment

in feeling Mr. Hunt had generally been less helpful on

these occasions.

5.

Nir. Hunt contacted Mr. O'Malley on several occasions

requesting referral of retiring Agency employees with

specific qualifications.

These instances occurred apparent-

1y after Mr. Hunt had assumed his responsibilities with

the White House.

In one instance Nr. Hunt requested re-

ferral of a recently retired Agency secretar).

As in

previous memoranda and discussions, Mr. O'Malley was unable

to recall the name of this individual..

He. did, however,

state that he is quite certain Mr. Hunt turned don the

individual whom he referred. As a point of clarification,

Pit. O'Malley said that this individual had not previously

been known to Mr. Hunt, nor had she previously worked

for hin in any capacity:

Nt. O'Malley also recalled a

request from Mr. liunt for an individual having skilis in

the ared of locks and surreptitious entry.

A rosume of

Mr. Thomas C. Anato was provided to Nr. Hunt at that tine.

It is ir. O'Malley's recollection that Mir. Hunt specifically

stated that a person with Mr. Amato's qualifications was

riceded in connection with a requirement of the Howard

Hughes Organization in Las Vogas,

Nevada.: Mr. O'Malley

stated the opinion that it was his impression that the

duties involved vould include the monitoring of a listening

device in an undisclosed location.

Mr. O'Malley reiterated

his understanding that Mr. Anato did not accept Mr. Hunt's

cffer of employment.

6.

Mr. O'Malley then recalled request from Mr. Hunt

for a

reconmendation of a security sorvice organization

to carry out an clectronic countermeasures "sweep."

• NT.

O'Nalley recommended the laclenhut Corporation.:

3

---

## Page 17

O'Malley recalled

that tr. Hurt expressed dissatisfaction

with that suggestion in part because of that iir. lunt

viciod as that tirm's political oricatation.

did not claborate further on that remar!.

No. O'Malley

then suggested the use of inderson Security Coasultants,

Incorporated,

Nr. O'Malley stated

that insofar as this

organization was advereised in the yellor pages and

Mr. Hunt could be assured of the reliability of the ser

vices, he felt this to be a reasonable suggestion.

0'Mall0) stated that Juring a subsequent phone

call wher

his. O'Nalley asked how his susgestion had worked out,

Mr. Hurt responded,

"Yes, they had done a fine job."

At this point Nr. O'Nalley was asked whether or not from

his associations with Mr.. Hunt he felt. Nr. Hunt was in

the habit of naking glib connents which sere not neces-

sarily accurate

in order to pass over a subject.

O'Malley stated that this was catogorically so.

He said

he was sure that it. Hunt had lied to hin on a number of

occasions and that, therefore, he was in no position to

• be sure that Mr. Hunt had actually, in fact,

used the

services of Anderson Security Consultanis.

Mr. O'Mallcy

volunteered the opinion that he suspected

the clectronic

counterneasures "sweep"' was to be carried out in the offices

of tho Committée

to Re-elect the President.

In response to a question as to whether he had

referred anyone

to NcCord Associates, Mr.

O'balley

replied that he remembered having referred walter Brayden.

Brayden for a time acted as bodyguard to Mrs. Martha

Nitchell.

As an aside Mr. O'Malley nentioned that Nr..

Brayden had refused to carry a firearn in spice of the

fact that Mr. McCord told hin he could do so on the auchor

ity. of the Attorney General.

Asked specifically if he had

ever referred either Willian Slea or Teresa Shea to Mr.:

NeCord, Mr. O'Nalley stated that he did not recall specif-

had not rearing Teresa Sea and that he was sure that he

Icferred Willian Shea to hin.

So, contrary to

previous statenents, it is now Mr. O'Malley's

in all probability Nrs. Shea was not reforred by this

Agency to Mr. NcCord.

---

## Page 18

1d-0n0d

8.

Res.

ning to Nr. O'Malley's pi-vious responsibilities

in

coordinacing funding for the covert recion sctivities

o Me. E. loward Hunt, the issue was raised as to wether

or not the funding ot

dr. Hund's projecis continued bedreen

July 1005 and Sepconbor 1950 while Me. Hunt sas a contract

choloyce stationed at Madrid.

Spain.

O'Malley recalled

that at the tine of Mr. Hurr's

ossiercens to jadrid the

statement dissominated

for. consumotion

within the Agency

was that Mr. Hunt was retiring.

Nr. O'Malley stated that

this

was not generally believed.

Nr. O'Malley was quite:

certain that during

this period his office handled no

project funding for Mr. Hunt.

In response to specific

question Me. O'Malley stated thas on ir. Hunt's

recurn to

staff employment the projects and funding which stopped in

July 1965 were again resumed.

Ot any project names or

Mr.. O'Malley was not aware

_funding nechanisas or post-assigament

accountings in connection with Nr. Hunt's activities in

Madrid.

bitin firs

Frederick V. Evans

Lawrence

J.

Howe

.. mine find do to cause sha

---

## Page 19

interned

21 Fobruary 1974

•MENORANOUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Office of Finance Rocords • B. Howard Hunt

On the instruction of it. Steven L. Kuhn, Chief

of Oparasions, PST, tha understand mado an apportment

for the afternoon of 30 Fabruary 197% to interview Mr.

Willian Cauflold, Chiof, Cortification and Liaison Divi®

sion, Office or Finance, and Nr. |

Jof Pinance

on the subjact of Mr. E. Howard

Hunt.. At the outset of

the Incorviow Nr. Cautiold advised the undersigned that

instruccion had been receivod from the Director of the

-OfFica of Financa, Mr. Thomas Yale, that discussion on

tha subjece of dr. Hunt was to be carried out only wich

the Office of tha Inspoctor General. Nr. Cauflold stated

that ho had informed Nr. Yalo of the requested intervion

and had toceived this instruction wich the suggestion

that the undersigned contact Mr. Yale diroctly with any

inquiry.

2.

Accompanied by Mr. Caufield, the undarsigned

bristed. Mr: Jale on the naturo of the request and iden-

tifled th "Task Force" effort being undertaken by the

Office of Security in concert with the Offices of the

Inspocior Ganeral and Logislative Counsel. Mr. Yale.

rosponded that he recognized the leiltimacy of the in

quiry.:. Mr. Yals explained that subsaquent to initiacion

of the complots audit being undertaken by Mr. I

Tof

the Audit Staff;

the Deputy Director for Management and

Services, Mr. Harold L. Browman, had requested the

Cifico ot Finance to discontirue their investigation.of

"r. Hunc to avoid duplication.

Yale added paren-

chetically chas it was the nature. of Finance Officers

no: to loave a job half dons and thas ai

"informal"

inquiry into Mr. Hunt's financial records hud neverthe-

less continued at a more subdued

pace.

11227

т:73

E2 INPDET

CL BY 011696

---

## Page 20

reviar of tho clrcuostancos. surrounding Mr.

Hunt's Conversion

to Contract Type A employment and

asslencent wag

then uncortaion by Messrs. Yalo, Cauflold,

and the undorsigned.

files of Mr. liunt wore revlowed for possiblo indicacions

of the nature. of the operacional activley undertaken in

Madrid. A revier of travel vouchers indicated that Mr.

Huni and his family made accountings indicating daparture

iron desaleston, on to lugust 196s.

on 5 August 1905 with an arrival

in Madrid, Spaia,

The costs of this

travel

were: charged to the budger of the lestern Haai-

sphere Division, Caputy Diroctorate for Plans,

Stasion Support acçount

A subsequent accounting sum-

marilos PCS travel oxpansos and included a payment for

aparesent rontal for 16, 17 and 18 August 1965 vica a

payment is the amount of $125 to Mr.C

this purpose.

It was dotorminad that an allottee bank account

in Mr. Hunt's name

had been ostablishod at the Riggs

Nazional Bank of Washington. All salary and other non-

operational reimbursements were made. to Mr. Hunt through

starile check to this account.

An oporational account

was established for Nr. Hunt with the Chaso Machattan

Bank of New York Cley.

A reviow of jil payments mado to

vr. Hunt through the Chase bank account through ir. Hunt's

overatlonal

advance subsidiary account, or 1442 ascount,

had been made.

Thore was no record of

any operational

accounts or advances being processed through this channel.

ix. Yals statod that this face defined his concern.

felt that lt was inconcolvable that Mr. Hune could have

undorision operátional activity without some transfer ot

or accounting for funds.

To date, no such records have

been developed.

refarence to a project or projact

disrash or operational FAN nunber has been located.

expenses connecied wich Mr. Hunt identified to date worg

charged to the

Supcort.

A review nade of

records has not indicated any "Developmontal

and bergat of Opportunity (DITO)" funds or "Other Opera-

Clonăi Activity (004)" funds expended by or on behalf of

Mr. Huni:

These two accounts would normally be the source

of

operacional funding not charged against a spacific pro

ject activier.

G100:7/023513172

---

## Page 21

14-00000

5. A corion of all of tha traval vouchers on record

for dr. liune during this pociod also failed iu identley

= projec:.

In iduicion to cho PCS and rocurn vouchers,

two ochor

accountlags are on socord. Une accounting

covered a trip by the

the renoval of visas. "enciro lunt family to Pariy "for

A second voucher covered a TDY

trip iron Madrld to irashingion with roturn to Madrid

maja by it. lunt fron

5 January to 3 January 1966.

voucher states in the space provided for the citation of

the travel order nuaber - "no travol order."

Ing vas approved and signed by Mr. Thomas Jarauessines,

then Dapuzy Director for Plang.

No lustiFication or

statement of purpose for this TDY was given on the account

ing.

Nr. Yale deteralaed that furthor review of possible

Sourcos or identification of operational furiding was in

JI. Yala gave instructions that the ontire 1442

advance accoun: of My. Hunt be revieved for other possiblo

channels of funding outsido of the New York Chase account.

AftoI discussion, it was agreed that particular attention

bo ta"on to any itons connuctod with publishing or book

royslties.

Ni. Yale noted that the royalty offsos waivor

provision annended to Mr. Hunt's contrace was, la his ex-

perience,

sonowhat unusual.

Yala was informed by the undorsigned of the

intention to

interview It. Edward Ryan, currently Chlof,

Division D, who vas at the time of Mi.

Hunt's Madrid assign"

mant, Deputy Chiof of the Western Hemisphero Division.

Yala

suggested that Mr. Davis Powell also be interviered.

The undarsigned informed Mr.. Yale that this had been done

and brlefed Mr. Yala on the generally nogative results of

rag intervior.

Sir. Yale then recormended that Mr.. San

Halets be interilored.

Nr. Tale noted that yr. Halpern

had been in assistant to Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald when the

lattar was Chief, Vestern Henisphere Division and had ae

companied Mr. Fleagerald when he becare Deputy Diracior for

Plans.:

No. Yale recalled that subsequent to Mr. Fitzgerald's

passing that Me. Halpera remalned on the scars and actod as

an Executive Officor

for Mr.

Thonas Taramossinss.

statad that fros his experionce, Mr. Karanessices woula

Mr. Yals

havo dolegated all the arranging of "details" surrounding

un assignsent such as dr. Hunt's to MT. Halporn.: N. Yalo

offered tao parentholleal obserracion of his surprise ac

what he incorpreted to be reticonce to date to interew

Mr. Halyer.

3

S.00 93497173

---

## Page 22

320028/ 22337172

The undorsigned assured Mr. Yale that he would be

intorned of any information Identlfyiny any possible projact

activity developed in subsequent investigation. Mr.

Yale

stated

that any information in this area

would greatly

facilliate the Job of checking conputorized financial

records.

Lawrence J. Howe

._....

---

## Page 23

14-00000

CHASE NAN

ATTAN REVK ACCOUNT

Check No.

9

10

vate

Yayec

20 October, 1965

Unknown

(2 months rent as deposit plus l month

advance at $550 per month.

Substan

tiated by lease)

26 November, 1965

Casa

Guggenbuhl

(for storage of trunks during 3 mos.

temporary housing)

10 December, 1965

Security Storage Co.

(final destination charges per attached

invoice.

Insurance chatge of

$1.00

personal expense.)

intount

$ 1,050.00

$

69.34

$ 1,070.82

November 18, 1965

December 20, 1965

J: 8- 7

Expenses

Flowers for sra. de Max torrell

Dinner at House of Ming,

Ex-Bolivian Ambassador and wife:

(Per ny letter of 21 December, 1965)

Ptas: 150

Ptas.

2250 31

Mind Mauct

---

## Page 24

IL SERVICES OTER THAN" PERSONAL

DESIAIPTION DI ESENDITURE • ATTACH MACEIPTE ANO DINEA SLFPORTING OGGUNIE?S

18

Nov

1965

20

Dec

1965

Flowcrs for

Sin. de Max Borrell. Pesetas 150 @

60/$1.00 - $2.50

Dinner at House of ling:

Ex-Boliyian Ambassador

and rife.

Pesetas 2250 Q:60/$1.00-_$37.50-*

# For opcrational security reasons a receipt was not obtained.

(Credit tho Illi 2 advanco account.)

•ATIFY THAT THE DISQURSEMENTS ITEMIZED ADOVE NERE NECESSARILY MADE BY NE IN THE CONDUCT

ALFICIAL DUSINESS OF. A CONFIDENTIAL, EXTRAORDINARY, OR ENERGENCY NATURE. THAT I HAVE NOT

MON WILL I DE. 'REINDURSEO THEREFOR FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE.

AND THAT THIS CLAIM AND AT-

"HYENTS

ARE TRUE AND: CORRECT.

(See true name attachment)

APPROVED

DATE

SiGNATURE OF PATEE

DAJE

SIGNATURE OF AGENT

CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVA!LABLE

HEF.. NO?

CHANGE FAN ACCOUNT NO.

6-2282

6136-1317 (codo 3):

DATE

AUTHORIZEO SIGNATURE

PATMENT RECCIVED

14 Feb 6G WE/BF

DATE

CERTIFIEU FOR PANIENT OR CREDIT

3/a5/66

SPACE BELCW •FOR

RECEIPT FOR FINOS RECCIVED

++40-60-117

SIGNATURE OF E PAVEL DAGEST

DESCRIPTION-ALL. OTHER ACCOUNTS 13.33

28-33

90•30.

STATION

CODE

O9LIG.

AEF.

но.

50

CA

DESCRIPTION

•DVANCE ACCOUNTS 19-27

31•54

•GENERAL

LEOGER

ACCI.

NO

COST": PAN

ACCOUSE SYMBOL

78-80

CLASS

.??.

DUE

DEBIT'

CREDIT

YR.

88

ST

SRABANNO DIS.

2212

2.7.82

134100

3,601.0

6:1:36/347

3/421.06/361342

144.2

12:551

2,555

50:125

3750

2,50

DATE

2/13/44

264

PREPARED IT

DATE

REVIENED. DY

18109T 4010

nice

68-858 ForAIs:15

SECRET

3/2393

TE SENT

OVER

10,00

10.00)

448)

---

## Page 25

PCS to

Per diem/misc exp

Air fare (self & family)

HHE, POV, etc

TLA, quarters, ete

Education allowance

$

998.30

2,257.50

7,547.76.

6,662.00

1,440.000

TDY Madrid/Paris - Teentry visa

Air fare only for self & family

PCS to Has - Per diem/misc exp

Air fare (self & family)

HHE, POV, etc

TLA

178.82

1,394.55

10,751:97

599.34

Operational entertainment - l

I Nov 65

Approved expenditure - LKD -

July 1966

Total expenditures

Less advances received (bank deposit,

$30,000;

cạsh $3,500)

Cash settlement to close A/C

$18,905.56

384.61

12,904.68

40.00

1,600.00

$33,834.85

33,500.00

$

:334.85

---

## Page 26

15 February 1974

16 Felds! Fah. 38

MEVORINDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Intervler of Me.

Davis Powell

on the David St.

John Novels

On the morning of 15 February 1974, the

undersigned interviewed Nr. Davis Powell, currently

a Budget Officer on the seaff of the Deputy Director

for Mansgement and Services.

Nr. Powell is located

in Room 7C18.

During 1965 M. Powell was Chief of!

Support of the then designated Western European

Divis

sion.

In July 1905 s contract was writton authorizing

salary and benefits to Mr. E.

Floward Hunt for an assign-

ment under non-official cover to Madrid, Spain.

The

purpose of this interview was to detormino if Nr. Powell

had any information on dr. Hunt's activities during chis

period.

Mr. Powell rasponded that from his recollection

it sias Mr.

Hunt's

habit to deal only with the most senior

OffiCer

available.

titi

In this casa Mi. Hunt dealt directly

the then Chief of Western European Division, Ni.

Rolf Ningsley. Mr. Powell statos that, in his capacity.

as Chief of Support, any activity undertaken to suppore

Mr. Hunt's assignment to Madrid was undortaken second

and thirdhand on receipt of instructions from Mr. Kingsley's

office:

He further stated that he was never briefed ón

the purpose of Mr. Hunt's mission and could add little in

terns of speculation.

Mr. Powell recommended that Mr.

Edward Ryan, who was

then Deputy Chief of Wostern European

Division, bo contacted.

No. Powell also suggesiod that

Miss Marcha Sevilla be interviewed. Miss Seville was the

Secutive Secretary. in Western European Division during the

tine that Mr. Hunt's contract was written and Miss Seville

subsaquently servod in Madrid herself.

Powell under

stands that Miss Seville is currently assigned to the

offtco of che Chief, European Division.

LawrenCo J. Howe

---

## Page 27

14-00000

15 February 1978

I6 Fell! Tel 38

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Intervior of Mr.

Rogers Brooks

on the David St. John Novels

The purpose of this interview was to determine if Mr.

Brooks had any information not contained in the Con

tract Personnel file of Mr. I. Howard Hun: on the

latter's activitios while a Contract Typo A employee.

Mr. Brooks summarized his recollections by

say no one oly ungue to not cy senspace contracts

to be administered without the contracting officor being

made awaro of the operational objective involved. Mr.

BTooks

stated that he rocalls some of the controversy

involved

in preparing the contract dealing with the

question of offset and housing allowance, but he was

unable to recall any of the details.

Ic was Mr. Brookg°

suggestion thae the Offico of Finance be contactad and

that their contract personnel records on Mr. Hunt be.

checked for information.

Lawrence J. lowe

---

## Page 28

14-00000

17 February 1974

- Ictetill, 7025-38

NENORLDUN FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Intarview with Mr.. Raysond A. Rocca

the David St. Joad Norals

1.

On the moraing of l4 Februgry 1971 Nessrs.

Frederick Evans and Lawrence Hove intervieved Mr. Raymond

A. Rocca, Deputy Chief, Counter Intelligence Operationg..

The purpose of the intervier was to follow up on infor-

mation contained in Office of Sacurisy files which stated

the beller that Individuals in the

Counter. Intelligencs

Operations office had knowledge of tha writing activitios

of Mr. E. Howard Hunt. This belief vas a mattor of record

in the files of the

former Secuzisy Research Staff. and was

attributed to Mr. Paul Gaynot, now ratired, and MI. Edward

Sayla.

2.

During this interview Mr. Roces was specifically

askad whether or not he had knowledge of the existence of

any forn of official sponsorship or encouragement to Mr.

E. Honard Hunt to writo novels to inprove the imags of

chis Agency.

Additionally, Nr. Rocca was asked whether

or not any assistance was ever requested of the Counter

Intelligenco-Operstions office to be provided to Mr. Hunt

or whether or not

that staff had ever had any relationship

with Mr. Hunt whatsoevar.

In response to thess questions

N=. Roces responded ""on

the record" that he has no knowledge

of any

such arrangaments nor

ai any time was he party to any.

assistance

or any requests for assistance to Mi. Hunt.

Mr.-

Rocca stated that the particular section which he had been

nost actively concerned in the past years was responsible

for bandlins a variaty of tasks categorized under the area

of "setting the rocord straigha."

in this senso, the "image"

nission of the office was to countor nisinformation: cur

rently in she media or othervise believed to be part of an

esfort tó discredit the Agency.

Ne. Rocca fauls that any

assumption that Mr. Hunt was engaged in any form of Agency

sponsored Image activity would have probably load to the

conclusion that it was done under the Counter Intelligence

Operations. Howoyar, Mr. Rocca enphacically stated that

this was not the case.

---

## Page 29

14-00000

3.

Mr. Rocca was thoroughly candid and cooperative

duriag the course of this interview.

He was unable to

suggest alternato neans of attemptiag to detormine if

any official Agency sponsorship of Mr. Hunt did in fact

exist.

Mr. Rocca

did venture the opinion

that he felt

that in all probability an official acquiescence on the

part of senior officials might have been involved rather

than an official sponsorship.

It was agroud. by all la

his discussion that the nature of any informal support

given to Mr. Hunt would be far more difficult to define

in the absence of any formalized agreements.

Lavronce J. Howe

---

## Page 30

8 Fobruary 1974

AEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

The dotalls sumarizlag an intervien on 4 Fobruary

1974 wits Mr. Daltor Pforzhelmer, Curator, Historical

Intelligenco Collection, vore set forth in a menorandum

addrossed to Mi. Stoven L. Suhn dated 6 February 1974.

Xuhn was briafed by the undersigned on this information

bater the same

afternoon, at Mr. Ruhn's direction, o conferenco was bold

with Messrs. Scott Breckonridge and Jobn Richards of the

During this conforence the speculation sas entertained

that Mr.

E. Howard Hunt had, in fact, been under Agency

sponsorship with the kovledge of Mr. Richard Holas in his.

prenuration of a series of soy novels under the pseudonya,

David St. John

If it can be accepted as a reasonabla

supposition that ?. Huat had some highly compartzented

financial arrangement aurborized by senlor Agency offleials

so srire those books, then it is Ilkoly that this relation®

Into continued ter Mr bunt officially Totired. • T 1s

specticary noted that ir. Hunt retired 30 April 1970.

Subsequent to

the totirement, a David St. John book' appearad

in print in 1971 and another in 1972.

Those manuscripts

were apparently prepared during the time that 4r. Hunt was.

employed by tho Robert R. Mullen Company:

ranslatine

3.

linutes fros the Offlee of General Counsel sake

referencos to a concorn of Senator Baker over an allógod

Financial relationship between Nr. Holns and st. Hunt

whica continued subsequent to Mr. lunt's forasi retiremont.

Senator

Baker has reportedly nade roference to a payaent

of some thirty thousand dollars with the parentsotical

comment that Ir. Helas would aos have that anount of money

---

## Page 31

14-00000

to provide Mr. Hunt fron his private funds.

NT. Richards

of tho Inspector General Staff opinioned that if cha

sgancy had sponsored the st. John books, it was likely

that Mr. Hunt had so inforied Senator Baxer-

4..

Addisg possible weight to this line of speculatior

Is tho face that subsequent to publishing the last St. John

nov dia As huy pudd and a novel engi lad toado, using

suggestion is that this writin" effort was done by Mr. Hunt

froo of any fiduciary relationship with the Agency involved

In the use of tho St, John pen nane....

5.

Nr. Howard J. Osborn, Director of Security, was

briafed on the above by the undarsigned in the presence of

4x. Kuhn on the evoning of 5 Fobruaiy 1974.

Laurence J. Howe

---

## Page 32

=:':s

 Pobruary 1974.

NEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

-Stevon Lo. Kuhn

The David St. John Novels

i *? V

1'08

: 7

get 35

:1.: On 4i February: 1974, Mr. Walter Pforzhelmer,

Curator!

Historical Intelligence Collection, was, interviewed by the :

undersigned concerning his knowledge of a series. of. novels.

written by Mr: B.: Howard Hunt..

This interviow was undertaken

at your request in an effort to determine if MT. Hunt had

acted in any capacity in cooperation with Counter Intolligence

Operations.

Ir. has previously been alleged in Office of

Security recordg that Messrs. Paul Gaynor and Edward Sayle

of Security Research Staff, belloved that Mr. Hunt. had written

novols at Agency request and that this effort had been known

to MI. James Angleton, Chiefs. CI Operations.

we callo::

1491

Mr. Plorsholmer provided a verbal summary of his.:

knowlodgo of Mi. Hunt's fictional writings under the pen

nane,

David Se. Johs.. Mr. Pforzheimer stated that when the

Pforsheimer related that he checked with a source

in the copy-

right office only to find out that the true name was not given

on the copyrighe application. The malling address given for

the

author was

chocked against a telephone cross reference

directory. • The

address on the copyright application was..

identified with Mr. E. Howard Hunt.

Nr. Pforzheimor stated

that

after making

the identification, ho called Mr.

Thomas

Karamessines and rolated his discovery. Mr.

Pforzheimer

rocalled from the naturo of Mi. Karamessines' roaction that

ho had uncovered a sensitivo matter of senior officar concern

ils.

Pforchelmer statod that he then recommended to Mr.

Karamessines that "if the Agency is involved in this thing

why not see

to it that Hunt leaves his addross off the copy-

right applications in the future."' Mr. Karamessines reportedly

---

## Page 33

accorted the suggestion and Mr. Pfortsheiner recalls that

subsequent copyright applicasior. rg=

suhmitted without.':

the address.

Within flve minutes of the conversation with-:

Mr. Karagesgines, Mr. Pforzheimer recalls being

called. by

MT •

Richard Holms, then Deputy Director of Central. Intolligence.

Mr. Pforiheimer recalls the substanco of the conversation as

being.

"for Christ sake Walter, this is the first book to.:

come along

and say something good about the Agency."

"Why

not leave

the Goddamn thing nione."

The undersigned asked Mr. Pforcholner,

knowledge, would be in a position to confirn or deny whether

Mr.

Hunt was under any form of Agency sponsorship in his

writing of the David St. John novels

Nt. Pforttheimer replied

that he was never officially briefed on the matter and that

orily Mr. Helms or Mr. Karamessines could provide the answer.

Mr.

Pfortheimer was then asked if oither Mr.

Angleton or Mr.

Rocca of Counter Intelligence Operations would have

knowledge of this activity. MI. Pforzheimer roplied that he

doubted it seriously.

Nt- Pforzheimer went on to rolate that he was

occasionally tasked to do rosearch for Mr. Hunt.

on one occasion being asked to resea:ch the Indian religious

tites involving use of funeral pyros.

remombered that this theme figures significantly in Mr. Hunt's

subsequent novel Tower of Sllence

which appoarad under the

St. John pen name in 1966.

Pforzheimer parenthetically

pointed out the origin of the pen nune as being the names of

Mr. Hunt's two sons--lavid and St. John.

5. Tracing Mr. Hunt's career assignments, it is noted

that ho was assigned to the Office of the Deputy Director

for, Operations then designated, the DD?/Operations Group, in

February 1965.

The flist David St. John book was published

during 1905?

was assigned to Madrid,.

Spain as a Contract Agent.

1956,

three St. John books appeared in print, the highest out-

put for any year.

Mr. Hunt published one book under the

St. John pseudonym in 1967, anj one each in the years 1969,

1969 / 1971

and 1972-

Mr. Hunt officially retired as

an Agency

Staff. EnDlovoe effective

30 April 1970.

---

## Page 34

14-00000

6.

A chock of Office of Security records did not develop

any indication that any of the David St. John manuscripts were

ever submitted for review in accordance with Agency regulations.

There is no documentaty evidence currently. available to the

Offico of Securite to elther confirm or deny possible Agercy

sponsorship of the books written by Mr. E. Howard Hunt undor

the pon name, David. See: Johna:

Janja

Lawrence J. Howe

•s:2s

a3 19

---

## Page 35

J44tL1

Cop} ons of one copies

S.Februarg 1974

MEMORANDUN FOR: Mr. Kuhn

SUBJECT: General Gaynor's Recollections

This date,. at your instruction, I called Gen. Paul F. Gaynor

to seek his recollections regarding his knowledge of the writings of

" Mr. 'Hunt and any official who might be aware of the circumstances

of any Agency involvement in that effort.

2. Gen. Gaynor advised that his memory is not altogether clear

on the matter, and that he was "reaching, " but stated that has he

reconstructs the matter:

a. He became aware that Hunt, while in WHI, was accomplishing

a steady flow of spy books, and that security approval was not being re

quested on the manuscripts before submission to publishers. (He stated'

that this acticity continued later, as he recalls it, in CI Staff, and

agreed with idca that the volume of writings was sufficient to indicate

that a great of time was involved in Hunt's writing.) Gon. Gaynor advised

that he raised the issue "up front" on severa! occasions. The reaction

he recieved to his raising the issue was that "keep your stinking nose out

of this business. " He stated that he was lead to believe that Mr. Helms

desized to improve the image of the intelligence profession and the Agency

and that Hunt's books were a part of the program to du 10. He stated that

hew? never told outright that this was the case, but the responses he

recieved Icad him to believe this was the case.

He suggested that tivo people might be able to assist in clearing

the issue, Ray Rocca and Walter Piorzheimer, both of whom were involved

in the "image" materials. He stated that Piorzheimer secmed to be aware

of all the details - on an up to date basis - of Huat's departurc from the

Agency to join the public relations firm, to the degree that Gen. Gaynor:

gained the belie! that Hunt was merely moving his dosk outside the building,

but being paid by the same source as before.

Ile also advised that he kep:

Niss Ethel Mendoza fairly current on what he was learning about Hini's

activities because she followed the case for him, and suggested that her

Iccall about what he had learned and wher and what resulted, might be:

botter than his aù this date.

(He also mentionad an incident in which Morse

illen while on a TDY was told by a COS to ask Headquarters to remova Hunt

Iroin the Aren because of his direct liaison with the presilont of the country.

sid other activities which were confounding station operations. Later, the COS

toil diorse to forget about relaying the message, with the implication tiat

Bunt was being directed by higher authority in the gone; and tie COS did not

wish to get in the middle by complaining. He said Morse sould probably

---

## Page 36

c. He also suggested that inother person--dufinitely no friend of

Hunt--whu might have some recall or have picked up information about

the book writing matter might be Anita Potochi of CI Staff, formerly of

Division D. (I gather that she did not have official knowledge, but because

o! her dislike for Hunt, she made it somewhat her business to follow his

careeri)

Edward F.

---

## Page 37

14-00000

36 Fel 12, lad z

19 Jeror. 72

EVERETTE HOWARD HUNT, JR.

1. Subjaci, a former CS-15 Cerations Cilicer assigned

to DDP/Ecrope, is 53 years of aga and marriad. He served with

the Cilice of Strategie Services daring World War Il, and was employsd

by this Ageacy iron November 1919 unill dis volantary retirement

on 30 April 1970. La 1971,, Subjuel served as an adrisor to Presideri

Nisos in relation to his izip to Chisa.. Subject is of current iniorasi

to tas Contral Cover Siall.

Z. Subjaci gradaated from Brown University in 1940. Ha

sarred with the Uaited Sialss Navy from carly 1941 until late 1942-

Aster a year wiis Time, lacorporated, be entered the Air Force,

where ha sas detailed to the Oriice oi Si-stagic Sarricas.

He served

is the Fa: East antil January 1915, Subject eagaged in writiay, and

then from May 1949 unil February 1919 was encloyed by cbe Economic

Cooperation Administration, serving in Paris, Frasce, 23 an aide to

Avarall Farriran.

3.

A backgrouad investigation conduesed by the Federal Sureau

of Investigation in July 1919 revealed no indication of instability on

Subject's part, but il nas later learned that Subject had been relused

an increase in salary vita tha Economic Cooperatios Administration

and bad been persaited io rasign. He ras described as higbly iatolligest;

bur bligily selfian and egosiatical.

---

## Page 38

5.

Subject estared on duty as an Intelliyenco Cilisor, G5-13,

on 3 Normor 1919. 13 December 1950 bo wal JudiTJed 29 13151

of Station.

and thea served is Chiai of sliosion lagre

until August 1953.

He served isl

from Juss 1954.

Latil Pahrar, 1957, He was than assigood as Chiol oi Station,

until early 1960.

Thars ware Indications that Subjec! atlesapied

to una bis porsonal infuence with the Presides:|

to Savg

his assigazent there eraaded, but do returped to the United Siates

In June 1900 asd was assigned to

_OR PrOjUCE JMARE.

A cable from

dated 6 November 1960, Indicates

that Subject bad writton former

contacta commenting tbal

ho was working on the Cabaz probles and pubilablay an asti-Castro

cowspaper in Miami.. Ii was recommended that Subject be warned

about such indiscras! rexarks, but apparently no action was takes.

7. In Noverber 1961, Subject was reassigaed to the DDPl

Covari Action Suall, and is January 1962 to the Cilleo of tho Chief

of tha same Stall. In July 1952 Subject was transferred to tie DODS

Research and Publicationy Section in Waadingion, and in Iuly 1964

tó lbe DODS Covert Action Siall, In February 1955 hu movad to the

Cifico of the DDP/ Opezadiony Group.

FIom June 1965 to Septerader

1966 Subject served ag a Contract Agost|

• after

which ha survad in the DDP as Chief of Europaas Covert Operations

until hiu retirement on 30 April 1970.

3. Ca 25 January 1970 a sourco of the Ollica of Security

learned that Subjact was circulating through the publiahing comraunity

"'Give Us This Day," a manuscript writtez under his former oparatiozal

allas and deallag wita the eventa of tha Bay of Pigs. Investigation

discload tha: the masuse-ipt had been in the possession of Ior Wallace,

of Holt, Rinchart, and Viasson, Inc. as carly as 9 July 1903 ard ta:

i was sent on thai dato to William F. Ducklay, Ji., of the Natiocal

Reviez®

The raanuacrip! as gent to tha Arlingion House aad Waitor

and Company as well.

Both rajaciad it as too con:rovorsial, as hid

Hole, Riaccart, zad finsion.

2

---

## Page 39

5. Sibjec! was intorriered corarilag to mazuscripi on

17 CobrusT 1970 by be DDP. Huaills professad ignoraaco, buc

whoa told too tillo admillad be bad writion it for his own besefit 38 o

Mistorical secord.

Subject Jaid he lad abowa the manuacries about

Ino guars ayo 8o bis ageas, ilax iViliiason, and so willam i. Suckleyo

Is:

He sald be had say wanted to opicion from theso genilezias, sod

addod that lio manuscrigi bad been retamed lo bir. To had, la said,

sos raniad it publlabed. Subjec! sas last-ucied is to the danger of suca

¿ manuscaio: bulag published, asd was lo atompi lo determise bow

masy copies of ll miga bo in circalatios. Ho mas 20t to costac: Walker

and Compasy. Who mere lee scures of the original Informailos.

10, A reiavastigatioa de Jubject was conduciad by the Offlea of

Secarity in Jaly 1970. Subjeci and his wila were described by six

neighbors acquaiziod wish ibem dor no so visa years, as excellas:

Faresis, good seigatoss, and fino community ellisens.

• 11, On 19 Jaly 1971, Subject may raportad by leo Jorday Cliy.

New Ja=90%, Jonscaj to baro joined the Wallo House Sial aa a

Consaluat to President Nizas preparalory to the Prosirent's visit to

tho soones Republle of Cries

12. On 6 roverber 1070, Sabject was

Jolta Rooed R. Mullen asd

Company, a Public Ralaticay fra with oilces at 1729 M Street, Morta

west, Warbiagion, D.. Iaquiry L

od 19 Jua

1972 revealad thai tis la a curren relatlongai?. Subject, da priacical

Oilcaz of Robari R. Mulled and Company,

13.

tusject's security la dofleeta that Subjeet had, la ibe past,

been of operatlonal triorasi to M1a. James Anglaton, Chiel, CI SUE/DDP.

ia connectior vlta aa operador matter. Ca 19 Juse 1973, Ms. Frod

Jubbard, Cl Stas, adriaed isa: Le pill proride informalion as to the

=ise di dia. Angleisa's villisation of Subject.

---

## Page 40

SHer. 1555

NORWO 203: Deputy Director for Support

Ita renoraada contairs a roconsendation 1y pa

o1zaad to 130

(2) 13 a Controot DEplOYe 25

12 a sensity 2s9127120t

510c+ Bly COnVerSON 2208 1 52211 3010700 08 4 July 1005.

2131410 mas 1. 0313, 3100 7 ($19, 330.00 p97 pinus) and ba

15 bag Dald at the EurO ato 13

hii present contract

349103.

Eis contract movides that sa will do entitlad to

Di chla organieailos applicaolo to 1is appolates personnel.

Tho basic 11yirg quarter allocca for Class

II

0221c2r3 11 Madrid 19 43,000 per anun. Tho 201se nie

Jias Located,

7169 1 030 732- 12258 1294 15 20799

1353 0 21 Foregar 1069, 123 20 212171 220: 01 35, 300.09

3ECINd1SS 4412+133.

Therefore, for rant slone, ba 111 do

$1,069.00 For goa. Dyer la 160 Tercent Fir Illowed

INdOI LEG 2IDMII0I9 0I: 1P 13 100. 01 1 75/25 J03C301

1nz1 50019 01 170 59 SOCCeR D7SY 410 QUATIS 1109e3c0,

39 504d 30 oui 01 Joc.at 33, 93.00.

0531309004,

ils roguest 1o: -31131 on Sis sonsing costa 7a9

• baziled by 1º. Thoraa sa-resgigas, ADD?.

Cs 15 Septenber

M'a 15/25 peters basta los the escasa dronable conta un

but cot to esced, so percent abage bla guarions allosasco.

Mis as contacos ras incladed ia a lastor to

a 52339501395.

It 13 Inquestal diat tao Deguty Disactor

---

## Page 41

14-00000

Lor SuppOrt autSOn 110 75/25 porent 3011103 11 110 05005

80 portant aboya ils quiriers allovanca.

151

Zdvard 3711

Mastera Europe DivIaion

ocommendation 1s paragrapa 1

3 Butbor1zed

Charlos N. Darfa

¿ Daputy Diroctor Lor StoPorE

9 CY 1365

Data

DDP/JL/S3:Dav1sB.Powell/2j/5189 (SNoyS5)

Distribution:

Dx1g.

-2 - SSA-DD/$

m:.. C77S/33

13/20

TS/DT

1

— 1/5

---

## Page 42

ATT

Chiel, Wastera Furora Nriaisa

Support Star .

Concengation and Toz Dission

TItica or renance

Paus Statas tororta

JaDer 179080

I3 Sedovo: 2355

Fetergree?

ty Statua Reports, for

1 only I905.

These reports urs required in order to maintain

big lAs79 escort 1n accordare ulia the taros of parsgrass

ófc) ci cia contraet end

to proslaio sotion to vithhold py la

ascordance alta roguirenenta of ta rofarenced bandocos.

2. It lo requested that tois onloo le adrineú 13 to

the reason for the dolay la tha submisalca of bese Duty Suades

Ragorts.

TO:

reatrass Prologgy Accorata Sautica

Agent Zayroll Franch

47120335.93

and 13= Division

IEOd:

Chlol ol SEpPOrt, ITS Diy1a10a

Der conversation aith ir. thoms sarasaiges, addo.

therE MIlI 39 20 DUtY StajaS Reports (Fory T6i) sussiate

Tals scould 1 us? 0: 139 23: 0-1t7

¿o contiane bi3 Tay Titout these IopOI3.

DaYiJ

5.

207911

Chles of Suppor

13 D1713101

Band 1255

SECRET

$9:7=11 8°

---

## Page 43

14-00000

3 Septenher I965

MEMORADI FOR: Chief, Contract Personsel, Divisioa

SUBJECT

Cereral

spectfle - Paragraph Sottied Postacts

_- Supplebeat

REFERENCE

: A. OGC Optotos 65-2475a, dated 12 August 1905

B. Our Meno, detad 8 July 1965, Save Subjecó

Ibis office bereto recomends an anuedrant tol

Supplerent dated 4 July 1965, to delete paragrapa 7. entltled "Oriset.

determised

rats office acmerledges the OCC obision, Reference A, wale

may retain without desacy salary ofiset any Luau

royaltles earned as a result of bis literary eftorts based on the fact

cover does not include role of a writer.

3. As Subject's cover "activities" have been officially clarified

a3 being only a ligat oca o? a retired Forelgy Service Orficar fo:

waich tha Agescy will be maslog all entitlesent parenta and actually

ho will receive no funds fron any coves, this paragraps, which is aisleadios,

has no readiag in Subject's contract and it 13 bereby reconcerded that

1t be deleted frog

Supplazante

4a. Furtber, in future cases ween a cover is so light that Subject

will nos be receivlag funds fron cover it 1s reconsended that no "Or?set"

paragraph be included in Supplerenta or Coatracts.

Attachest

Rei. A and B

HILLIAR. CAULIELD

Chier, Covert CIslas Brasca

Citien tallen ti

this lenses.

---

## Page 44

1..

00665-24763

IS AUE 1935.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

_ Retention of

Royalties by a Contract Employee

1. You have requested the opinion of this Office in regard to

the retention of future royalties which might be carned by

as a rcsult of his literary efforts. We believe that he is

entitled to rctain such royalties withou an offset against his Agency

salary.

2. We have been advised by Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support, that

cover does not include the role of a writer;

cover for status will only be a light one of a retired Foreign Service

Therefore, paragraph of his contraci dated 4 July 1965 may

remain as written.

Royaltics from the fictional works that he writes as

a profitable hobby will not ba emoluments rcceived from or through his

'"cover activities."

Roman D. Block

NOS VAN D. BLOCK

Office of General Counsel

cc: Chiei, Covert Claims Branch

Mr. Gene Stevens,

WE/Support

---

## Page 45

3 AUG I0R9

MENORANDUM FOR

ATIENTION

SUSJECT

¿Ofilce of General Counsel

Normas Blocke

Retention of Royalties Dy

a Contract Employee

1. Referance la mado to tha telaphone conversation

of 25 July 1965 between yourself and Rogero C. Brooks of

this Oilice vinercin baciground inforraation relating to the

assignment of

was discussed.

2. Subject will apparently develop a cover as a writes,

a fleld wherein he has an already deconstraied talent baged

upon several publicationg..

The objective of the covsr is to pro-

vide a bania of attribusion for some of his income.

at the time

of the preparation of l

contract, the specific

detail of his cover was unknown.

3. Request your opinion in regard to the rciention of

possible royalties carnad by

as a resuit of ais

literary effort or whether such income should be proparly

offact.

Joseph 3. Ragan

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Aitschments.

OP/CPD: RC3ro0k3/cwv: 2'August 1965

DistriJution:

Orig & 1 -- Addressce

2 - CFD

---

## Page 46

4J02y65

NiT

Deai MI.

The Uaited States Governmant, as ragrasenied by he Contracting

Officer, hereby contacts with you as a Cossaci Impioyse for tie 1138

of you: services and the parlormance of dutica of a contidential sature

• under the following terma nad conditians:

1. Compeasalon. In full considerasion for the use of your sardices

and the perioriazace of specified comidantial duties you will be congen

sated in an amount calculated at the raie oi $19, 950 per asausa. In addision,

you are herein authorized logislative salary adjustments, vishin-grade

promotiona and, i apolicabla, a post differential la subatatial coniormance

with rules and regulations apolicabla so Governmes¿ appolatad employees.

Paymenta will be made as raqueated by you in writing in an agproved man.

Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organisatios.

2. Allorances.

You will be entilled to: (s) Living quarters allow-

ances in coriorziance with regulations of this orgarisation applicabla to

its appointed personse.. In the event you are furnished quasters by tha

Governmant you will not be entitled to the liviag qua:ters allowances berein

indicated..

(b) Coss-of-lirinz allowances

in consormance with applicable regulations of this organization Including,

but not limited so, a post allowaace, a tansfer allowance aad 3 home 3e.

vice transier aliowance.

• 3. Travel.

You will ba advanced or reimbursed funds for travel

and transporation expenses far you, your depescents, your housabold

effects and your persocal automobile to and lom your permanent post

of assiganeni, and for you alone io= authorised operational travel. In

eddition, you will be enciled to storage of such household and parsonal

ellesis as are not shipped, in conformance with applicible Covezaraaa:

regulations. Toe raay ba entitled to per diem in lieu of subaisience i:

the course of all trarel peziormed hereunder and, whez autorised, to=

you aione while on teraporary duty aivay from yous permaraa: p0g: 01

assigazent.

All travel, ¿insportation asd per dies provided lo= unda=.

tais parag-od must be properly autorised, and expenses incurred here-

ador are subjaci to pajeni and accouadag in complisace wis applicabla

Governeat regulations.

1. Osarationa! Expanses. You will be adianced or soimblised funda

Io: nacossary oberadoral aapea3e3 including, dud nod limitod to, entertala-

ment ard lis puribase o! informino:, au spscilically approved Sy tie Cov-

ermant, Such jundo mill be subjac: to raymes: and accounting is compli-

sice vill auplicabie Coverrmeni regiaiiona.

5. Reassal 1: la recognisad dose your failure lo Beddar: in= or

., 900..€.0006 0e' 7 M96169d al All Gonla90 Ma Died M8320.i9 !:

---

## Page 47

14-00000

8. Densita. lal You will Do entitléd to death and doability bonelies

egial to those audiorised tus, the drderal Employeos' Compensation Ach

as amended, Gluing by jou, your heira, or legal ropretantatives vador

this paragraph vill be procesued by this osganization in accordance vlis its

procedras la such mannor as not to Impair security. "

(b) You will ba enilled to the conticuance of pay and

allowançes In a manner sirailar to that der fo-tis in Che Missing Parsons

Mot (50 U.S. C.r.. Aps. 1001-1015).

(c) You will be entitled to sick, annua! and homo leave

(including traval expansas incident thercto) equal to and subjoct to tha same

•rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed employees.

Annual leavs may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by

appropriato Covernment representatives. All accrusd but unused leave

credited to you: former account aa an appointed employee of this organiza-

tion will ba traasferred'to the leave accoun: established for you hareunde..

(2) As a Govarnment employee under contract converted

from stall status ilibout a break in service, it la required thai you continue

to mate contributions to the Civil Service Retiremen: Fund. Such conti

butions (presently six and one/hall per cent (6-1/210)) will be daducted by

the Government from tha basic compenzation due you hereunder, 1.c..

presently $19,860 per annum.

(e) You are herein auchorized to apply for encollient

in a health insuraace program for certain selected Contract Employees of

this organization, sibject to all the terma and conditions of thai programa.

It accepted, this organization is presently authorized to bear a portion ol

tha premiur cost, you will bear the remainder.: Your financial coniribution

will be effected either by payroll Caduction or by direct remittance at

periodic intervala to ba established by this osganization.

(1) (1) This organization is authorized to pay the cost

of necessary hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness o= injury

incurred by a United Sariss citizen full-time Contract Employee in the lizé

of dusy whils abroad.

(2) This organiration may pay certain necessary

costa ol hospitalization and ralited travel esperass for illness or injury

incurred by the dependente of a United States citigen full-time Contraci

Employes permanenily assigned aoroad, while they ara located abroad.

I: is understood and agreed thai the eligibility ardi exicat of the participation

Dy you and your dependents in the above medical programo will be i co.?-

fornace vil the rules, regulations and policica of this organizatio la

elfact at the time an illness or injury is incurred, thai all chime will Sa

submisied only to this organisation and thai adjudication of such chuns by

this organization shall be linal and conclusive.

7.

Braolument: taclided benefad la diad) rosaived foon or

througa jour cover activities are the property of the J.S.

Governren.

Procodurally, auct emolumen. mill ba clael agairli amounts die you

undor thia agreerion: and.

aro bahnowladiad to be payrioni be lie Covera

merligaonder and lar Fedsial income 1:8 pa-poses.

Il core: 0:0!2a29:3

excocd dosa d1e goa Ualor Bis combeach, YOu sill dispOse Of da CiCuss

around la collarmance sir Corgramonal lotructions.

---

## Page 48

14-00000

dinitie

Mia contrace, lou astro lo custody o! Covermont juds or tile dilo

properly has in faci Jeon purchased with nionies o! 14= U. S. Goverament,

you hercuy recogaine and acino ledge the existence of a trust relationsalo

citier express di constructive, and youngres to ciscuie insiovor docu-

malia nay be coquirui by she Goverminen: to evidenco this sulationgais.

9. Secrecy. You will be roguired to beep forever secret tila contract

and all information which you may obtain by reason harcoi (urless released

I writing by tha Coverament for suci obligation), with iull ino vladigo tiral.

violsion of suca secrecy may subjec: you so criminal prósecusion under the

Esplonage La'»9, daled 25 June 1918, as amended, and othe: agplicable las

and regulations.

10. Instructions. Instrucions raceived by you from the Governaent

in briellag, training or obervisa are a partoi thia contact sau are icor

porated hereia, provided that such insiructions are no: inconsistent with

the terms hereos.

11. Ursuthorizad Commitments. No promises or coramibrents per -

thining to rights, privileges o benaflis other thin those expressly stioulates

in viidiaz in this agreement or any areadiment therato siall be bindina on

the Government.

Term. This contract is ellective as of 4 July 1965

no and shall

continue thetcafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner termindied:

(a) Upon sixty (50) days' actual polica by cither pary bereto, or

(b) Upon actual notice to you in the evens the resulis of an inisially

required medical semination are determiasd by this organicalioa

to be unsatisfactory, or

(a) Without prior notice by tha Government, in the eveni of a

breach of this contract by your violation ol the security provisioas

herof o= by your otherwise rendering yoursel unavailable for

acceptable service.

Subject to as availabilit, of appropriations, this agreemen: may be estended

upon cotice from tae Coveraner!.

In the evant of voluntary termination on

your part or termination lor cause by the Covernment prior to tas expiration

of this agreement or any renewa! thereof, you will not be entitied to raura

travel expenses to the Vailed Sator. Termination of this agreement wil!

no: release you from die obligations of any security oats you razy be requisei

to ta!?.

UNITEO STATES COVERIMENT

DHL

Contrassing Cidice:

ASOTPI2O:

151

FINESS:

APPROVED:

1.51

151

---

