# 104-10179-10232

## Page 1

104-10179-102327

i ::

SECRET

6 Norember: 963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Special Alfaira Salt

SUBJECT

I ARiWORLD -PROJOCE INHART

1. Calol, WH/T has Cantatively offered the services of CLA

contract personal desisodeo thia project--principally shoes ol the

Jolo serve

as a channel to ex-i resident Figuerce and Forelen Minister Lidubos

in promoting the acceptability of AMWORLD and AMBIDDY I by ta

moderato left. Under the farma of the INHARI Frojeci ClA, through

will be able to lofluence ther

Il Is projosed that

would tell Figueren and Cuuber that it la intended to also enroll

Cubane in ¡be achool and that ta the opinion al'L

they ahould be

draun (som exile organieations tapen lo be dedicated to cemocratie

prlociples, sach sa ArtIme's MAR, Manolo lay'o JUNE, the MAI

and NDC.

I a unllkoly that t'igueres and Couber would demur. En

any caso, tholr demurraid could be overruled.

Tho prominent mention

ol the MAR as a cradlo of do mocratic Ideas and cho actun inclusion ol

studenta selecter by Artimo would postulate accoprance of the MIR and

al Astimo no exponents ol a political philosophy accoptablo lo the mode

rato left. Any excortatlos of Artime for haring allied himnell with the

Somozas would bo blunied ll the MRR forma a part ol thoratudent body

land conceivably the faculty.) of the

• T intend to suscent to Artime that ho pay lie respocto e

"Igmores la Cambridge, of course ulthout alluding to the school profect

The purpose of the call would, quite frankly, do so bursor up riguereo.

SECRET

100,9 8-999926

g..9.9,

---

## Page 2

SECHET

All the Informallon I baro been able lo galber nuagonto that the cambl

illon ol Munos tinNa/t'igurren, no lar ao Pianhiagion le concorred.

1o unbenable and that Artime has lille choico bel to all,n timael vie

their may of looklas al chingo-or at lesot to say lip corvico lo il.

3. Another engle I would like to explore lo Frenident Botancourt.

The more l read of his accompliahmense un president, loe prore fra-

pressedlam. " bai would you think of having Artimo, armed mic a

lettor of Introducion from Elzueros, pay Betancourt a call before be

rolloguisboo the proeldency, Artime's approach would not bo that ol a

applicast or solicitor a suppori, bul lhat ol a young man making a

pilgrimago, altling as the fear of a revolutionary who bas Does successiul.

absorbiag knowledge of how it was done. He could ant Belancourt, after

ho 10 out from under the dally grind ol goverument, to addreas Ameel!

to the problema of post-Cantro Cube. He could lavite him to chair a

seminar attended by the MAR leaderabip. The objective sould, of courao.

bo to Involvo Botancourt la the diaire o the MAH, wilhour wtting his

mare on the mastbead and wilbour asking him to contribure anylling bat

rollection ol hia luatre as a Latin Amorican leader who bequeathod his

country a constitutional and democratle regime. Undoubtedly Artino

will have to cast oll Ideolo,ical ballant In order to accommodate hia

reluctant aponnore (i'l¿seren,. Betancourt), but klavana 'vans bion une

men0e." An a minimum objective. Artime would in any case bave to

«trive to noutralise the letont animollies of the moderato loit, denying

sanolo lay an unchallengod ascendancy in monopollulas lia support.

which ho can probably sor for the asking.

1. A welcome by-product of the recuscibation al JAHART.

la "Combato, "an lolluential pertodical with atroag seadorahlo appeal

In Latin America among elemante ol the moderate lalt, edited by

• A Cierman national named Lt. krich Horsog who la a member

of the Socil Lemocrile Party of Germany (SPD) has boon lecturing

In San Jose on an "Idoological Inquiry into Communiem, " ble program,

Indirectly sponsored by the federal Republic, Will be abeorted bys.

(JMMART. ile moldo considerable influence in molding use taintini as

Central America's left of center leadership.

The firet Secretary of

the larsoll Embassy la Cuatomala las also been mentioned as laftential

mong the Intellecteal alllo..

A Fuerto Nicas samed sendago Pol'ante

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

=1.

(Prodidoni ol lue Assembir) la Manos MAris'e pasa la sponsorias

JMMARI, and le cuores do harlas referrad lo l'iguoros do lao udias

lighe, erarnhe donias all arbore.

stO,

Honty D. Machther

SAS/SO

ec: THIT

SA5/50/SB

SAS/SO/AR

NC/SAS/MO3

SECRET

---

