# 104-10107-10090

## Page 1

104-10107-10090

iG: Lawrence R. Houston

•: General Counsel

• 6111

TE: 19 May 1270

•BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEPINATION

• MESSAGE FORSA

TOTAL COPIC::

SECRET

INDEX

_ NO INDEX•

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

1.5

RETURN TO -

7

BRANC

- FILE RID

FYI

(01i80)

(roforence number)

CITE DIRECTOR

0355476

(classilication)

(date and time filed)

1922

15-1

, MCLONDON

RYBAT KEYWAY

20-1

71613 (IN 085506)

PARAL IS FOR USE WITH EMERGES) REMANDER IS FOR STATION

13811

1.

HERBERT ITKIN WAS A VOLUNTARY INFORMANT TO JKLANCE

STARTING 1962 AND CONTINUING AFTER 1965, HEREORIED IUROUGH

STAFFAGENLUNDER UNOFICIL-COVER IN NIH-YORKS. THIS

ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO FEDERAL DISTRICI COURT

IN NEW YORK, NOT NEW YORK SUPREME COURI. ITKIN WAS NOT

CONTROLLED AGENT, AND JKLANCE HAD NOTHING WHATSOEVER TO

DO WITH TRAVEL TO ENGLAND IN 1965 OR ANY OTHER TIME.

2. ITKIN HAS COMPLICATED LEGAL PROBLEMS INVOLVING CUSTODY

OF WIFE'S CHILDREN, WHO UNDER COURT ORDER WERE NOT SUPPOSED

TO LEAVE NEW YORK JURISDICTION. AS RESULT OF HER TRAVEL TO

ENGLAND IN 1965 WITH CHILDREN SHE LOST CUSTODY TO HER FIRST

HUSBAND. ITKIN, THEREFORE, IS CLAIMING TRAVEL WA: UNDER

100 m

DIRECTION JKLANCE IN ORDER TO INFLUENCE NEW YORK STATE COURT

TO RESTORE CUSTODY OF CHILDREN - continued on page two

COOFDINATING OFFICERS

FELEASING OFFICER

Lician: dias:+ +9990579116

d'amaria

1=5-9

AUTHENTICATINO

OffICER

SECRET

REPROCUCTICN SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FRENZITED.

COTYNO.

---

## Page 2

HOUTING AND'OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

=:

"E SECRETARIAT DISSENINATION

.. PER

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

CINOEX

L NO INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO. .

z

• RETURN TO

BRANCH

U FILE RIO

FILE. VR.

(classification)

(elate and time filed)

Trolorance numbar!

(pica)

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR 0 35476

LIQ WIFE. ITKIN SUPPORIS CLAIM BY DETAILED STORY, WHICH ON CAREFUL 7

INVESTICATION WE CAN DEMONSTRATE TO BE FABRICATION.

3. BACKGROUND OF SITUATION EXTREMELY COMPLICATED.

FRANKLIN I. TINKHAM, WHO PERSONALLY HANDLING CASE WITH

DEPARIMINI OF JUSTICE AND VARIOUS INTERESTED PARTIES IN NEW

YORK, LEAVING FOR MUNICH THURSDAY EVENING, 21 MAY, IWA 704,

ARRIVING LONDON, 8:10 A.M., 22 MAY. CAN DELAY DEPARTURE FOR

MUNICH TO LUFTHANSA 225, LEAVING LONDON 7:45 P.M., 22 MAY, IF

- KI

DETAILED BRIEFING WANTED FOR STATION ONLY AND NOT (SMORANGESO)

4. PLEASE INERM SOONESI. :

un

DDP

RELEASING OFFICEN

DC/CI

EA/DDP

•1?.

Inge in lies

EUR DIVISION

COORDIRIATING OFFICERS

SECRET

Have ar

Lawrence R. Houston

General Counsel

moraling

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

---

