# 104-10219-10113

## Page 1

104-10219-10113

1Ah1191'

trial Forrucice

SECRETIRYRAT

DISPATCH

Chief, European Division

BFOCESSIIGACIION

WARES FOR EDDORA

ONLY QUALIEND US

CAN JOGE MUCINA

ExCROFILM

Chief of Station,

TOBJECT

K:TYAY/ SHACT

ACTION BEQUINED - BERATICIS

The attachment vas passed to us by SMACI. SHARE

to make their inquiry tarough us

in order to hold down the jusalbility

of a ners leas resardin, fallian Martin's potential trip do shADe

to Please adrise.

John F. LOCKFHBSRRY

Attachnent: B/8

Distribution:

3 - Chief, süR F/att b/&

CROS REFERENCE TH

JASPRTCH STRON AND RUMBER

722663

SECOST/RYBAT

GATE

12 January 1968

MOS PLE RANGER

-..

---

## Page 2

SECRET

LITTER DISTRIESTION

11111a7 Fartin

"ho Caradian Press Correspondent In 10sc0u, :1111m

suckley, approacied our ribassy inforsally in the acido ol

necesber os behall of illiar iartin, the ex employee of ise

who defectes to the soviet inion in 15u0.

iccordirs, to Buckley, Tartin vishes lo see nis parents

for compassionate

sta passat whether he has see a or to ta unio

suckley not tartin at the apartent of Howard ausch,

the Moscon correspondent for leira 1ll Publications.

addition tartin later telephued uckley lo indie:to his Interest

In finding cit tether or not be could cose to cania.

assunes, quite rizhtly I sould chink, that the rer in wilch

Martin has nadu his request indiestos that 113 sussian hosts ar

anaro of his interest in getting out of the lovi:t Union to see

nis parentse

se have inforod our isbassy that it should taxo no

action so encourage suckloy or vartin to clieve tire a visa

would "e ranted if tartin irre to take for-al application.

Since, loverer, 'artir"s interest in coring to Caraid 1s already

In a rouspaperin's bardo, ve cannot rule oui the jassinitity

that lockley n'"e "rite about jartin's irterest. Such a story

would probably load to the need for an expression of cho canadian

joverrst's siLItude, In -iiry reco-aensitions on the kind of

response that alght is sade in the evert thit a question is put

to my sinister, ii would to sost useful to know what iartin's

far as tho l'nited states is cancerred. Il,

for example, your forement couli not like ligal setion, the

Canila autorites vould l0 1: a rosition li this racter caaa

to publie aliention

to say t.it they were

not adare of any barrior

preventing tartin fros seein; lis parents in the Unlied States.

I should de sost grateful if torough your charnols & could be

provided inferally with an irdication of tartir's status in lar

in the sited States.

Fuckley's only otter cament on artia was that ha ildhot

really koos wrat to sake oi 'artin.

fa-zin seered outspoken in

doaling with the shorteonings of life in the sovin. Inion. On the

other hand be spoke with a slight stater ard sec...i nervous.

Tuckley's view ior what 1t is vorth in that sartin is not intereste

in getting into troable with the russians or doing anything which

bey sight conslier underhanded. I should emphasize that no vesse

I tho Canaclan Savassy has had any direct contact ith Martin

.. -..

• 'panta!.

---

