# 104-10214-10035

## Page 1

104-10214-10035

880127-25 017

TABLE OF COMEDITS

Foreworl

Positibes o progizent people 1a late 1953

The sati-governeat Ilots begin

Attacks on ragedas; imposition o2 nartial law

Discussion o1. US response to pagoda. raids

Corein reeting with General Don'

CIA guidance on State telegram re alternative leadership

Ricrarison's personal views re alterate leadership

Ear-i=aa Lators islas or the substance of Deptel 243

Deptei 243: guidance to Lodge on Improving or replacing regine

Hilstan comment supplorentina Deptel 243 . ....

. ...

Harguerile Figgins in Deptei 243

Hqs joints out danger posed by Deptel 243; directs CIA support .

Gen. Kaan requests assuraaces of U.S. support

Initiai entassy

retling to discuss Deptel 24?

Lodge presents his credentlals to Dien

Second toughts on authorizations given Lodge In Deptel 243

Saigon reports instructions given CIA offiers seeing the generals

Results of CIA approaches to the generals

More second thoughts on Deptel 243

Lodge and taritas are asked for is interis appalsal of prospevts.

COS believes situation has reached polat of no return

Continuing consern over poor prospects for success of coup . .

Taylor cabies Harkias. re Washington's second thoughts

Taylor's cable to Farkins causes Richarison to change scenario .

Steps to be taken to get the coup back on the track

Discussion of where coup planniry vent astray

General Zerklas' meeting with General Khien

Discussion of ways in wich ve migat live with Diem regine

Colby's suntary of differing positions taken

Richardson reports collapse of coup plot in late August

Richardson's darage assessment report

Press reports of CIA coup plotting .

Further discussion of ays of vorkingilth Dien regine

Press reports of CIA support of Col. Tung's Special Forces .

David Bell varns of aid cuts

President centes charge that CIA rakes its or policy

Richardson's views on prospects for immediate future

Krulak 1 Menderball reports; opulaisa vs. pessinisa

Bundy stresses reed to unily US governuent posture

Disagreeuents among country teas rembers ..

....

Lodge estirates situation worsening rapidly; urges sanctions

Discussion of steps necessary before deciding to cut aid . . ...

State segins to see no alternative to working visa Dies.

Sheldon's view on Vietzan; Lodge still pursulaz coup effort

SECRET- SVES OULV

Page

8

10

10

10

12

12

16

---

## Page 2

Paige

Press Incorus of dissenciso in US miasion & diA ciation

Ricberason's viais on red to doris sta

Diom regi=e

DDP corrersation rita Deve Saith re possible Bicaarazon Caster .

Lodge casages position; agreas sust core dül Dieg regise

DCI sites Lodge tcat Lansdale not ascentable as COS..

DCI briofing o ClA Subcomittee of jsusa Armed Services

Melazar-Taylor repos:

cin withdres troops iy end of 1965

Lodge confiras his destre that Richardson de replaced

Riccarison dega-ts .

Discussion oi guidance cased on !clarar-Taylor. report

Gen, mina requests assurances te US position of coup atreras :..

Dave Saiti recomends ve bot oppose generals'assessication plan

Mecore instructs Smith to ditadrar recomendatica

Sulta contins se bad dora so

.....

Guidaace to Louze; suspension oi ADD pioject lca=s

President approves

policy of no active encouragesent of coup ..

UN fact-linding nission on repression of Buddkists

President corments

on Riccardson transfez; CIA follos guidance.

Modiiication oi policy oi no coup encouragement

Aabessador's instruczicas re CIA contacos isa gazerals . ....

DCI briellig

of Secate Foreiga Pelations Comitree

The gererals' p'an fos a coup in the tees iolicing Cet 25

....

Budget Bureau offcer reports Lodge charges agaissi CI

Follod-up neeti-gs betreen Coseis ad Cer. Don, 2÷ 00t . .....

Burdy reserations over sazdiira oi contacts dim generai

Lodge reports CIA punctilious in carrying out sis instructions ..

Coup plotting; US gover ent policy; DCI's viers

Lodge confirms Cozein's sora fides to. Gen. Don...

Last Coneio/Dos seeting belose the coup vas la neced

Lodge gires his viers os curent coup plottira (29 Oct)

.....

Discussion of chances of success of the planned coup

Bundj-to-Lodge cable giries detailed guidance ne coup postre

Lodge says we bave no pover to delay or discourage a coup

The White House rejects Lodge's views

. Lodge thanks washington for

"sagacious instruction"

Coup begins; Conein goes to JGS Igs; tajes morey dith hia ....

CRITIC reporting oa coup identifies Corein by 2a3e

The assassination

Recap

27

28

28

3

3

37

38

38

39

39

19

40

Pyd tetro

321

BI-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 3

SECRET -EMS ONLY.

31 Hạy 1957

FOREGORD

Tols accoust of CLA and U.S. Coverent Involverent in the

-3229t

Vietnamese gererals' coup of 1 Noveaber 1963 1s aravn fros

docuzentary sources. Not all of the docurents simarized or

quoted bear directly on toe coup itiell.. We included some that

nay seen irrelevant, because they illustnate the atmosphere in

which U.S. Gover-ent polloy decisions vere resched.

we Interviewed auly itree people in the course of this

Inquiry: Willias Colby, Caler of FE Division at the time (and nor);

Jobs Richardsos, Chief of Station during the coup plotting uf

August 1963; ard David Saith, Actinz Chief of Station at the tine

of the coup/assassination of Novenber 1963. Each assured us that

he knew of no CIA assassination schemes against Dies--other than

the role played by CIA in mintaining contacts, by direction, with

the Vietnamese generals.

Many of the docents upon which this report is based are

classified TOP SECRET. Since the report is being delivered

personally and in only one copy, de have chosen not to subject

It to the extersal accountability controls that are entailed in

a TOP SECPET classificatioa.

On the following page is a list of U.S. Goverrent officials

whose names are sentlezed in the report, togetzer with the positions

they beld at the time.

• 1

SERRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 4

0627-083 E3

John F. Kensedy

Lyndon B. Johason

Mcfeorge Buady

Dean Rusk

George W. Ball

W. Averell Earrinan

Roger Eller

Joseph A. Mendentali

Frederick E. Nolting

Fenry Cabot Lodge

William C. Iruehart

Robert McNasara

Rossell Gilpatric

Gen. Maxwell Taylor

Gen. Victor Krulak

Adm. Harry D. Felt

Gen. Paul D. Harkins

Gen. Richard G. Weede

John McCone

Cen. Marshall Carter

Richard Felns

John Richardson

David R. Salth

WillJam Colby

Tha Presläest

Vive Presicest

Special Assistant to me Presisen: fOr

National Security Affairs

Secretary of State

Under Secretary of State

Under Secretary of State for Political

Afialrs

Assistant Secretary of State for Far

Eastern Affai=s

UN Adviser, Bureau of Par Eastern Affairs

Ambassador (left Saigon 16 August 1963).

Asbassador (arT. Saigen 23 August 1963)

DCA

Secretary of Defense

Deputy Secretary of Defense

Chalras, Joiat Chiefs of Stafi

Counterinsurgency Specialist, ICS

CINCPAC

Camarder, HACY

Chief of Staff, MACY

Director cf Central Intelligence

DDCI

Deputy Director for Plans

-*A

CIA Crief of Statios until 5 Oetober 1963

CIA Acting COS after 5 October 1963

Chief, FE Division

- 11-

SECRET-S

---

## Page 5

The suesessful coup agalast the Dien regize in South Vietnas,

which resulted in the deaths of lgo Dinh Dies and his brother, Iu,.

begaa on 1 fovesiser 1953 at 1315 hours, Saigon tiee (0015 kours,:

Washington tire).

This report on CIA and U.S. Government Isvolvement in the coup,

consists of a circrological listing of event:, actions, and

deliberations having to do with Vietnam. The report is dram

antirely fre docurentary sources, either by quoting selectively

or by sumartzirg. Significant overt happenings having bearing on

official actions are incluled in the caronolody. Facts on fle,

& weekly digest of sorld news, was used as the source for these

historical evects.. Also licluded are a fey excerpts fron Marguerite

Riggns' book Our Vietnam IIightnere* to demonstrate the extent to

shích some once-classifled irformation is now cormon knowledge..

All dates are in 19ó3.

8 May

Rlots erupted in Hue.

I0 July

SNIE 53-2-63: "The Situation in South Vietcan

"Il-as 1s likelj--Dien fails to carry out truly and prouptly

**

arguerite Higstis, Our Vietnam Miratmare (New York; Farger & Row, 1955)

SECRET-FIS

6 MV

---

## Page 6

the coonitent he. cus rade to the Budlaits, disoners ill probaoly

flare ugain and the chances of a coup or assassination attespis

agalast him will beccae even better. .... . He do not thini

the Communists: vould recessarily profit 1i he "ere overthrom by sose

combination of his non-Comunist opporents. A non-Communiat successor

regice might be initially less effective against the Viet Cozz, but,

given continued support from the US, could provide reasonably effective

leadership for the governsent and the war effort."

14 August

Current Intelligence Memorandum (OCI No. 2339/63): "Coun

Remors in South Viatran

•. • • The coup reports ard rumors which bave arisen since

the Puddhist crisis seem to reflect some serious coup plotting,

but we have no fian evidence of advanued planning by any group to-

21 August

South Vietnamese troops and police attackeu and occupied Buddhist

pagodas throughout the country. Dien imposed nation-wide martial lar.

Presidestial Meetina On Vietzam. CIA participants: DCI, DDP, &

C/FE.

Record by C/FE.

Mr. Ball recoumended that ve continue to provide asylum for the

two bonzes Buddhist wonks] until lodge arrives and reviews the matter.

It was agreed that official channels should not ke made available for

transuitting press dispatches by Auerican reporters in Saigon. On the

matter of possible alternate leadership in Vietran, it was picted out

that there was no indication that Dien was not in full control.

2

SEGRET -2VES ONLY

---

## Page 7

STONET-ZIES ONLY

21 August (continued)

"Current Titol

in Soute Fleen

zence Vesorandum (OCT To. 2341/63): "Coup Rusors

"Additional reports o? plotting against the Diem goveresent

have been received.

While there is no hard evidence of tient

action, the Biddust Issue contiaues to make the situatica dargerous.".

Saigon Station's Chrosology of August 1963 Coup Actiritles

At a neeting between Conein Lan officer of the CIA Saigon Station/

and General Don, the latter asked for US Goverment assurances of

support for moves against the Dien regire.

22 August

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 63334)

"Ref Dept. telegram in process. Reftel (which igs, sot yet seen)

states basic Iine to be taken and directs it be pushed at all levels.

Hilsman requested Aqs. send couranion telegram to statica polating:

out that this is one technique to bring about surfacing of ere and

who real power 1s. Pressing this line can maximize possiblilty of

obtaininz Us objective.

Even 11 1t does not succeed, it can

substantially assist in identification of alternate or successor

leadership with necessary drive, abilities and ambition, to incor-

porate in our overall contingency planning and serve as focus of

buildup program.

igs. Will coment in further detail after seeing

message, 1f necessary, but passes above at Hilan's request..

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 0208)

Chief of Station Job Ricardson forwards his personal vlevs re

alternate leadersiip:

• Recent events have cade us feel

that hope for civilian goverment to replace Dien aninist ailo is

-3-

SANET-ZIES ONLY

---

## Page 8

unrealistic. Ta solution seess even more Isprobable than ever before.

Kould appear that ve saali tave citber Dion or nilitary junta.

View time factor have not coordinated this nessage with embassy but

we have exchanged viers fully on subject satter."

2: August

Telephone call face Earmiran to DD/?. Record by DD/P.

Mr. Harrinan called lº. Helms just cefore 2000 hours and

910243

outlined to bim the substanze of what eventually tured out to be

Deptel 243 to Saigon.

To Feins query, ilarrizan confirmed that the

thrust of the telegran contaised an isplicit puil out of Acerican

forces and support if the laus' were not ousted. Harmiran said that

the message had been cleared "with Hyannisport," ith the Secretary

of State, and vich ir. Gilpatric.

State telegram to Saigon (Deptel 2+3)

The Departent Informs the Ambassador that the US goverment

cannot tolerate

a situation 1a inich pover lies 1a ru's hands. If

Diem 1s unwilling to rid himself of Hou, then Dien binself may have to

8O. The Ambassador is euthorized: (1) to inforn tbe GVIV that actions

against Buddhists must de redressed; (2) to tell ley milltary leaders

that the USG cannot support a Dien regire that includes the Nu's and

that "we will give then direct support in any interim period of breakdown

central governent rechanion;" (3) to make statenents in Saigon renoving

- 4

SEIZET-BYES ONLY

---

## Page 9

SE03T-2123 ORZ...

the bilitary taint on the pagoda raids. The telegra includes tre

following statesent:

"The Ancassador ard country team choud zently examies al

give jou detailed instructions as to bou this operation scould

proceed, but you will also know we will cac's jou to the hilt

on actions you take to achieve our objectlves."

25 Auzust

Cable from Illsan to ludge (personal) sent via CIA charcels

DIR 63354

"State cable sent separately represents agonizing at higiest

Course, Outlined is dangerous but all agree toat delayiaz

clear cut US steed is even nore iangerous. It won't be easy ior

you, but be assured ie will back you all the way."

(Carment: This is a good point at which to break the

narrative and Insert a serles of excerpts iron Marguerite Higgins!

book:

"The crucial act, with its overtones of Greek tragedy,

opened with a cable.

It was dispatched to Saigon late in the

evening of August 24, 1953, a date made more significant because

It was a Saturday. Wascington usually empties on suncer reekends

or lapses into a sonolent nood as officials desperately sees

relaxation.

"'The telgran contaired spectacular new instructions for the

U.S. embassy in Saigon.

It was drawn up at a meeting called by

Under-secretary of State Averell iarriman and Roger Hilstas,

Assistant Secretazy Of State for Far Eastern affairs and zead of

the Vietnen task force.

The President's senior advisers "ere, for

- 5

STUMET-DES OMY

---

## Page 10

14-00000

308-2801

the most fart, out di tom. CiA Deracior Joll MeCone 123 la

Серу Заке засека во не на о та f City !

Cel 2710

Манія

te 303729 3023 92 386 183

• the cable proved historic. For the first tire it

gave the signai to 'unleash' the Vietnamese military, flashed

= Saen 11544 20r ihe coup eyainat Plen Onbiin the seramie bad

Fees talking jor 50 maaj jears.

the cable of August 24 was a radical revision of the

previous philosopay of oze war at a tine.

It envisaged tre

fererals' castrz var on their cm goverrment, ana vito ice

isplicit blessing of the United States.

"The substance of the cable was that the U.S. embassy ras to

rake an efior to persuade Diem to fire his brother, release

the Ruddnist rebels, end press censorship, and restore otcer

democratic liverties suspended under cartial lai.

And 1f, as tide

cable anticipated, Dien would not do these things, then the

encassy was to contact uce Vietreese generals and tell tron trat

we united states would ao longer stand in the way of a rovolt.

... the controversial August 24. cable was dispatched

fran Washington Saturday evening after being cryptically sumarized

to President Kennedy at the sunce= White Eouse at Hyannis Port.

"The acting Secretary of Defense, Rosell Gilpatric

had the cable described to him over the telephone.

Mr. Gilpatric

sajs he was frankly surprised teet such an important set of

instructions saould be rushed out on a weekend. But he did cot

feel that ie ought to veto the telegram since ... it had the

'approval of the President.'

"In McCone's absence, the cable was described, azain

cryptically,

t0 Richard Eelms,

deguty director of the CIA,

who also did not feel disposed to rato somethirg 'approved by

the President.'"

- 6

---

## Page 11

V

vv

25 August (contiaud)

CIA cable to Saisoz (DER 63355)

"FII CIA not consulted re cable being sent separetely, which

horever cleared at higest levels.

In circustances believe CIA

cust fully accept directives o policy meters and sees ways accomplish.

objectives they seex. While have not seen exact text, understand

1t invites Lodge fical judgmeat.

of action appears to be taroring avay bind in and before ve adequately

identifled birds in bush,

negl search for courses of sotion whice sight retain opions in our

hands at same time as taking positive stard rather than waiting for

situation to clarify (at untch polat de probably mable to afject 1t.)

This bolls dom to seeing sore middle ground for at least interi

period. . ....

CI4 cable from Saigon (SAIG 0291)

Chief of Station Richardson reports that Geceral Khanh requested

an Innediate reeting vith Spera fan officer of the CIA Saigon Station].

At the meeting Khanh requested essurances that tre U.S. Goverment

would support the Vietcanese army 1f it should nove against the Dien

Regime.

CIA Cable from Saigon (SAIG 0296)

Richardson reports the results of a conference anong Ambassador

Lodge, DCM Truehart, Cereral Farrins, General Weede, end Richardson.

The group agreed that girls Diam an option had no chance of success.

They accepted Deptel 243 Loi a August] as a basic decision tron

Washington and would proceed to do their best to carmy out instructions.

- 7=

SEONAT-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 12

S0M3T-D8S OR0Y

Richardson gives headguarters his views on possiole successor

regimes.

25 Auzust

ONE Staf? Kamoranda, lo. 60-03, Internal OF Working Paper,

CIA Distribution Chly

"On calance,

we beliave the best hope for the preservation i US

Interests and aütatarent oi US objectives in South Vietnan lies 1a the

possibility of a coup d'etat by anti-Comunist rationalists wit

sullicient military support to obviate prolonged civil war.

Group might not prove able to salvage the situation and, indeed, might

eventually prove no better than the present regime. Such a develorent

would, bowever, enable the US and anti-Coromist rationalist ciesents

to make a fresh start unencumbered and unhampered by political errors

of past years, months, and weess.

In such a tresa start, re belleve,

Les the only

viable hope for the attainment of US interests and

objectives in Souta Vietran."

Ambassador Lodge presented his credentials to South Vietsarese

President Ngo Dinh Diew.

26 Rug'

Presidential Meeting on Vietnan. CIA participants: DDCI & DDP.

Record

DY DDP.

The question was raised as to whether there had been such a

signiiicant change in the Vietnan situation that it really appeared

desirable to dump the Inu's and possibly Diem himself. Principal

points discussed ere: Adniral Felt's concern over the dangers

Inherest In the surrent US action in South Vietnan; the fact that

Lodge had not seen Dien to discuss the future role of the Mu's;

DES ONLY

---

## Page 13

SSS227-2I33 QUA

the reaning of the phrase "give direct support to silitary co: anders"

In Deptel 243; he question of succession; and what would happen 1f the

action teen over the weezend failed.

The resident asked for anothe

session on August 27 with participants to present biographic data on

key SMI personalities and a contingerer plan for tze succession.

CIA cable from Saigos (SAIG 030%)

Richardson reports that the Ambassador decidei that the Americar

official hand should not show in the operation. It was agreed that Conein

would see Khien and that Spera could see Khanh. Corein and Spera were

directed to convey the substance of Deptel 243, plus this comment:

"We cannot be of any help during initiai action of assuming fover of

state.

Entirely their own ection, win or lose."

CIA cable from Salgon (SATG 0330)

Richarison reports the results of the Conein/Spera approaches

to the generals. In essence, Khanh said he was not yet ready, and Khien

said ke would have to check with Misha.

27 August

Presidential Meeting ca Vietnan. CIA participats:

DOCI, DEP, &

C/TE. Record by c/s.

The President stated that a coup should not be etterpted unless it

would be successful and asked whether we could turn back at this point.

- 9 -

SIZ:

0.L7

---

## Page 14

14-00000

3697-083800

The Presideat soded that the jagnent of Lodge and Rareira be sougat

or the prospects for victory or defeat

of a coup. A cable was drafted

esking if they still agreed with treir concurrences to Dentel 243.

State teles an to Salso (Deptel, 355)

"Exasiration oi reports to date gives considerable hope but

leaves unanswered questions.

Proceeding from the concept

outlined in Deptel 243 as nodific, now desire your proupt intert=

appraisal of present prospects.

Whether ans

InvOE aeration is mirant anned be tenore wish to sire

you all possible support in best available course but not to insist on

any decision that developing eridence nakes it wise to sodiay."

29 August

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG 0353)

Richardson reports that:

"Situation here has reached point of

no return.

•. . . Unless the generals are neutralized before being

able to launch their operations, ve believe they will act and that

they have good charce to win. . . ...

Presidential Meeting on Vietnam. CIA participants: DDCI, DOP, &

C/F2.

Recozi or C/22.

The President Inquired into the status of E23 plars 2ed vas told

that these vere sell worked out. State Departzent participants

Insisted that Dion and lihu had betrayed and double-crossed us and we

had no obligations to them and that we cannot in with Dies and Ia.

- 10 -

SEGNET-2IOS ONLY

---

## Page 15

14-00000

The President concented thet we had been wizzing ustil Augist. Holting

expressed his conviction that Dien is the caly zan who cas run South

• Vietnam in any fashion to permit a continuance of the war effort.

He

believed

we should make another try to keep Diem. Harrinan directly

disagreed with him. The President directed that a telegran be prepared

to send to Lodge and Harkins asslog their vier ai the chances of success,

expressing concern over the unfavorable ratio

of forces, and inviting

their suggestions

as to how he could increase their possibilities.

The President called for another meting later in the desis

NSC Executive Comittee Meeting On Vietran. CIA partielpants sor

Idantified. Record by DDE

The President set privately with Rust, Keliamara, Taylor and

MeGeorge Bundy.

He reported to the rest of the Cormittee merel; that

three telegrams were being sent to Saigon: a personal nessage to

Lodge from the President, a general message from the Department to the

Ambassador, and a telegren fron Taylor to Harkins.

Telegram fron Taylor to Harkins (JCS 3369-63)

"Important Waite House meeting on subject scheduled for 1200

28 August EDI, your views urgently needed on overall feasibility of

operation contemplated. • • • • • ETI State to Seigon 243 Fas oracared

without DOD or JOS participation.

Mausorities are now neing secord

thy outs o

- Il .

SEGRET-DIES OULY

---

## Page 16

14-00000

250227-28S DAY

29 kuzust

Saigon Stetion's chresology of dugust 1953 coup netities

"At 0745 hours, Richardson, Spera and Conein, latter tao of

Whoa were scaeduled

to contact Generals Minh and Khien at 0615 same

nomina, were shom a ressage from Caneral Taylor to General Parkins stating

aspects of Vietnan situatica being reviewed at Waite ficuse and compentina

that second thoughtavere beginning in washington. Faced with this

infomation and given stricely linited tire factors, Richarison

decided that the reeting with Ceneralls Man and hien should not be

rostponed but that contacties officers vould muse this baccino a facto

Pinding mission without encouresias or discourazing Cererel Miche

"When Spera. and Conein returned from their meeting with Khiem

and Mish, we proceeded to Trisheart's offica to sake our report.

The

Anbassador cave in and Richerdson advised him of our reeting with

General weede,

of Tayior's cable, and of the decisions which Richerdson

had sade as &

result of the Taylor cable. Lodge wes engry ard

expressed the view that Richardson's decision had destroyed the

possibilities ai carrying cut a coup. Richardson expressed a firm

dissenting opinion."

VL NSC Executive Committee leeting on Vietnan. CIA participants.

not

identified. Recors 23 DDP.

The consensus was that Harkins should confirm to the generals that

the approaches from CIA were bona fide and represented the views of the

Us government. There was agreement that better Information was needed

on what the generals were in fact planning to do and whether it was

nilitarily feasible. A telegram giving the serse of the meeting was

drafted for Presidential approval.

-12-

830229

Hi-15 W

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SXO2DT-33S CRY

30 August

Pecora ly C/E2.

Pisk referred to recent cable trailic and sald that he sas not

even sure whon we were dealing with or that they "ere planning.

Moliemara pointed out there was some question whether the generals ever

did have a plan. Bundy said he and re-read the earlier traffic and

noted that they never said they did. her. Carter.

• sale he believed that

the general's coup was not likely at this stage and that in another

week we will be approximately where we vere before the attack on the

Buddhist temples. Bundy suggested we consider editionai contingencies

before the group and whether the assumption that Nu 1s Impossible 1s

well founded.

31 August

Saigon Station's chronology of ligust 1963 coup activities

"General Harkins was authorized to seet with Khiem to give

Khiem assurances of USG backing. Khie showed a reluctance to talk

and suggested that Earkins meet with Cereral. Mich. Kniem cormented

that Mich had called off the planning and des working on other methods

which thier would not describe. Kuies lither stated that the generals

were not ready as they did not have enough forces under their control.

Harkins decided not to give Khiem essurances which he had been authorized

to impart. Lodge approved Harkins' decision on 31 luzust after Harkins

- 13 -

SIGNET- DIES ONLY

---

## Page 18

14-00000

1672-257624

31 Aurast (continued)

-Vice Presidential Meeting 09 "Jebean. CIA participants: DDOI,

DEE, & C/F3.

Rue' suzzested ve look at precisely what in the Vietnam

situation zade us this of a coup and what sisat be done to inprove

corditions 17 Vietnazeliarara suggested the first requirement vas

reestablishment of comminication between Loige and Harsias. Rusk

directed that a telegran be prepared for Saigon making suzzestions

as to what re night asts the vil to do.

Chief, FE, who participated in the meetings of late August.

in a resorandun for walter Sider provided this sumary or

differine positioes 12cez.

"In the discussions turing the past week, the position of the

Departzent of State, led by Ball, Harriman, and Hilscan, was that the

Diem-Nnu government had double-crossed the US Government because ol

the attack on the pagodes and that US obligations to the goverment

were no longer valid. Further, that a goverment so discredited could

not conduct successfully the war in Vietnam and would prove an

undesirable liability to the US Government elsewhere in Asia.

Because of

these noral, military and political conclusions, the Department

recormerded that it must give all support to a group of gererals who

allegedly were disaffected to the point that a clear indication of US

action was the only ingredient lacking for them to push over a discredited,

unpopular and weak Dien govemment.

"The rosition of the Departsent of Defense was that while it

deplored the sersational aspects of the Buddhist situetion, it

nonetheless felt that an effort saould be continued to deal with Dien

and try to bring about a cospromise, and at the sare time to keep 1a

touch with the generals and support the coup efforts, if this proved to

be the only alternative leit. This was essentially the view of Geceral

Harkins and of Ambassdor Holting-

This was considered by the Department

of State to be a foot-dragzing and weak position.

- 14 -

SECRET - DIES ONLY

---

## Page 19

SEDAT-BIS 0037

"The Fresident, viered the State Deparinent's position with

considerable resore but was tilling to explore the coup idea further.

He and the Attorey General (as well as CIA) were appercatly appalled

at the speed with which

the State decision was reached on Saturday

afternoon, 24 Augist, and felt that sore thought, analysis sad

preparation should have preceded the instruction to Lodge."

31 fugust (coatimed)

CIA cable from Saigon (SATG 0439)

"This particular cour is finliiad... ¿ Conerals did not feel

ready and did not have sufilcient balance of forces. ••

•There

1s little doubt that OVil ware US role end may have considerable

2 Septenber

CIA cable from Saigon (SATG 0523)

Richardson cabled & dazage assessment. He concluded that Diem and

the No's are fully snare that the USG encouraged the generals to

attempt a coup and that CIA was the instrumentality of this encourage-

ment. He judged there was an even possibility that all major programs

could go forward as in the past. He listed as a major dilemma the

Station's future relationships with Col. Tung: He roted his dissatis-

fection with Tung

as & Gil liaison vehicle through which to conduct FM

progrars, but noted that the GVil had offered no alternative. Unless we

were willing to discontime our IVil, Leos border, and cross-border programs

we mist contime to wor's with Turg.

- 15 m

SENNET-DISS ONLY

---

## Page 20

380.

13-223 CX2M

2 Septesber (contimed)

:6404

The Tibes Of Vietnay Published charges that the CIA ves plotting

and financing & coup and was giving asylun to the chief anti-Diem

Buddhist lesder.:

The story was picked up and indely played by tee

New Yor's Dally Hews, the Chicago Tribune, Baltirore Sun, and otber

promisent newspapers.

6 September

1666

Presidential Meetirg on Vietnam. CIA participants: DD' & C/FE.

Record by DDP & C/EE.

Rus's stressed the imediate reed for direct contact between Lodge

and Dier. Bundy pointed out the necessity of advising Lodge rot to

have a real show down with Dies over Mu at this forthcoming neeting,

as one of lodge's cables indicated he vas headed very much in this

direction. Rusk agreed to do this. The President agreed with the

desirability of silencing Madane Nbu but expressed some doubt that

Nm's participation vas as fatal as State seemed to say it was.

commented that the country team had stated its feeling that lim mist go,

to which the President replied that they may have been operating under

directives received fron here.

- 16 =

---

## Page 21

T-8

33 ONLY

8 Septerber

Wire services and prosiest rewspapers carried a story that the

Special Forces troops who raided the pagodas on 21 August were still

bels paid secretly by CIA. This story was attributed to a highly

reliable source in lashington and gave detalls of support to Cal.

Tung in the arount of $3 million anally, and a payment of $250

thousand on 3 September. The story was datelined in lashington and

In Hantle.

David Bell warned In a television interries that the US Corgress

might cut back aid to South Vietnam unless the Dies governent

changed Its policies.

(Corment: The U.S. Governent publicly confired on

8 October 1963 that aid had already been cut, quietly and

over a period of same months. B1l1 Colby, Jocko Ricbarison,

and Dave Smith each told us that the public amouncement of

the aid reduction was a "signal" to the gererals and that the

reduction was planned with that in mind. It way be that the

cut in aid bas deliberately planned to sour, ize generals on, but,.

18 so, that intention did not find its ay into the written

record. The nearest thing to it is in the record of a Presidential

reeting of 10 September 1963.

The President asked Rufus Faillips,

- 17 -

SEGRET-EISS ONLY

---

## Page 22

320121-2033 OILY

of AID, "hat specifie actions Pillips world reconnead and be

sugzested "cut-las ate to

• Colonel Tung Which could be Flewed

by the Generals with much enthusiasy and as an indication of

•a vigorous Americaa position." In genergl, though, aid cuts

vere discussed in ters of bringing pressure on Diem li sase

necded changes in his regime. However plansed or however

Inoised upon by the U.S. administration, it is clear that che

Vietnamese generals considered the official confirmation of

aid cuts as a clear toxen of U.S. suppori of their coup planning.

Spera and Coneln set with Cererals Mina erd Kalem on 29 August

Tre folloring are exserpts from the cabled report of the

meeting (SAIG 040ó):

"If USA now really ready take different position, generals

want fir evidence to that effect. •

to what ve can do. to show ve rean business, Minh flatly

stated, stop economic aid to force Nau to show bis band.

The suspension of aid did not force Diem and Nou to mend tbeir

ways, but it did create an atnosphere that sde it easter for

the generals to assesble the nilitary suppori reeded for a

successful coup.)

• 18

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SEORET-EYES ONLY

10 Seztenber

In an lateries by Huntley and Brinkley,

the

sident dented

the charge that CIA sakes its om policy.

CIA cable from: Saigon (SAIG. 0760)

"An inclined to feel general officers will seek evolutionary

acco-modation with Diem (1f he pernits them to do so) unless overall

situation clearly deteriorates, there is breakãom of civil order or

governental racainery, or unless var effort begins to go bachvard

seriously... ... Despite damages suffered since 8 May and 21

August, am Inclined to believe we should be able resume successful

prosecution of var in military and ciril sections. • •

..• Do not

allen myself with the view that USC should suspend aid. . ...

Presidertis1 Meeting on Metran. CIA participents: DCI & C/FE.

Record by C/FE.

Gen. Krulai reported his findings 1r Vietnam. His conclusions

vere that the var is going ahead at an impressive pace and that the

Viet Cong war vill be won if current US nilitary and sociological

programs are continued. Mendenball, the State representative who

accompanied Krulak, expressed the view that there was a complete break-

down of the Saigon civilian goverment and the security situation in

the provinces had deteriorated. The President asked whether the tro

gentlemen had visited the same countrl. Rus's suggested that the focus

be on what happened/in July and August that reversed the optinistic

judgents in May and June. Mi. McCone talked from a persoral telegram

he had received fron Richardson reccarending against any cut in aid.

1-19 -

SECRET-ZIES BNLY

---

## Page 24

SEG

187-2753 DAY

30 Septeaber (continued)

mISC Pres

DCI & C/F3

mitree Meeting, on Vietram.

CIA particiyants:

Record by C/B

Bundy stressed the reed to unify, Ee US Goverment josture, to

coordinate press guidance, and to control outgoing ressages to Saigo.

He emphasized tbe laportance of folloving the President's guidance on

this delicate Vietnam problem, despite intensely differing views as to

what should be done, how, the risks, minimm objectives, and the facts.

Mcmara stated bat his position was vigorously against throwing out

this governent without seeing an alternative and that none appeared

to exist. MI. Mclone carmented that the problem was not so much the

existence of an alterative as how to put one into power. Bundy

summarized the President's position as one la which ve must express

our reservations as to the mistakes and nisdeeds of Diem but not be

in a position where ve cannot deal with him further.

_ September

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG: 0797)

Richardson reported that the country team attempted to agree on

a six-page summary cable to answer a cable from the Departsent requesting

views. The team was unable to azree ever or the first three pages of

the sumary. Weede and Richardson dissented on the basis that the draft

- 20-

---

## Page 25

SECRET-DYES OILY

cont.

Emary vas too sweeplas ans tos regative, concluding definitively.

about the country as a vole on an icadequate basis of data: He said:

*In 'sore ways we. sees to have reached the polat in official Aerican

comunity that, 1f you think 're can in with present goverment, you

are staply not running 10 righe direction ith rajortty."

State tOlesTar proc Setzoa (10. 478) Lo dgE

"My best estimate of the current situation in Vietnam is: (a) that

It 1s worsening rapidly; (b) that the time has arrived for the US

to use what effective sanctions it has to bring about the fall of the

existing goverment'and the installation of another; and (c)'thst

Intensive study should be given by the best brains in the government

to all the details, procedures, and varfants in connection with ice

suspension of aid.

Presidential Beeting on Vietnan: CIA participants: DCI & C/RE.

Record by C/ta.

• McNamara pointed out that Icdse has had littie contact with Diem

and has not been out of saigon.

Mr. McCone cormented that he believed

that ve should move cautiously, that we should talk seriously to Diem

and that lodge should be urged to visht the countryelde to obtain ?

more realistic vlev.of the effects of susperding aid.

Mr. McCose also

suggested that another approach be made to thu to seek his cooteration.

in a departure. The President asked rether ie had carefully studied

the detailed effects of cuts in aid (as proposed in a paper prepared

by Hilman. It was evident that the effects had not been studied.

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 26

SEORGI -DIES ONLY

I kept cout

Ise President asked DOD aud CIA to acalyza the Illsean paper. Fe

also asted that a telegrai be sent to lodge asking his to try to

reduce the press leakage in Saigon and to establisa scoe real contact

with Dien. Azy current plass. for aid sezotiations should be stalled,

and the President said be saould be well inforred of any steps taken

In this context--such as the incident involving CiA pagment to

Col. Turg last week.

Ul Septeaber (continued)

NSC Executive Committee Meetirz on Vletnam.

CIA participants:

DCI &. C/FE.

Record 5g C/EE.

Rusk said he belleved that we were not likely to achieve an

Indeperdent Vietnam unless we could eliminate Nau.

At the same time

he vas not willing to say that Diey should 5o, as he sar no alterative.'

Rusk cormented that we should work through Lodge on Diem to take over

the real leadership and becone the real president. Mr. McCoze suggested

also the desirability of negotiating ilth Mu.

Buady read off a CIA

suggestion for a process of negotiating with inu.

13 September

vuvr

CIA cable for Saigon (SAIG 0990)

Huntington Sheldon, was visited Saigon, reported his views on the

situation In Vietnam. be Ineluded as part of his report the substance

- 22 -

SEGRET-EIRS ONLY

---

## Page 27

TALENT

SECUET-DIES DUL/

of a discussion rita DCH Treheart

"The A bessador is considering

charging MAty with rakiaz amaroach- to SWil military, he-pertioned- Gen.

Don, to atterpt stimlate early coup action vith sopropriate US

assurances. I laquired had Aroassador made such proposal to Washington

and waa tuld this was withis Lodge's autbo=!b*."

15 Septenber

Heil Sheehan vriting from Saigon stated that the various elements

of the US mission In Vietnar were so badly divided that Hashington

had intervened. He said: "The only cirilian official still strongly

In feror of going along with the Ngo femily reglue 1s the Chief of

the Central Intelligence Azency kere." On the sane day, David

Halberstan stated that high US civilian officials in Saigon were

making an all-out effort to convince. Washington that the ndlltar...

and political situation is deterlorating. Ee said that "the Chief of

the Central Intelligence Agency favors all-out support for the present

regime but that almost all other members of his staff are embittered

over the raids on the pagodas. They also feel their Chief's close

association with lal, while necessary, has severely daraged intelligence

gathering.

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 28

74-00000

STORET-BIES ONLY

Ió Sepiester

CIA cable pros Salgon (SAIG 0922)

Piccardson replied to Washl-gton's request for his. Judgment on

the desirability and feasibility of certain ideas, as Hashington vas

tices in the course of constructing an agreed plan. La cabled:

"de must go on trying to wla war with curreat adainistration

for as lonz as it persists in pover.

... • Ne should not atterpt

publlely to achieve objectives vita. respect to Ghi den probability

of attainent is virtrally nil. . .

We cannot covertly tizser

with or engineer a coup unless general sitiation is reasonably

propiiitious and if ve are unable to establish recessary worklag

contacts with Vietnosese legders willing and able to do the job

with recessary means.

• Agree we should carerully explore

and peraaps carefully experiment with graduated seasures designed

to pressure Dies, within context of persuading him, to take steps

needed. Teese peasires would be sore effective if they are linited

to practical and achievable objectives. . . ...

27 September

Memorandus for the Record prepared by DDP

"Saith. discussed with ue... reports that Lodge wanted

to get rid of Mr. Jobn Richardson.

• • Mike Dunn. . . had

told Conein... that Lodge was going 'to get rid of Richardson".

.'*..On ore occasion Dunn asked Conein, "Do you think that Dave

Smith can run the station for a tesporary period while a new Station

Chief is being sent cut here?'"

19 September

ladge to the President: Stata telegray fron Saigon (iTo. 544)

"I agree that no good opportunity for action to remove present

• st

SECRET-SIES ONLY

---

## Page 29

government 1o

there tore,

an

evestuality.

for

sucstantive crazzes."

tum is apterent and that de should

initia reasure pending such

Persoral letter Pro McCone to: Lodge:

"I was told by Dear Russ that you had proposed that Gereral

Lanscale . • • replace Richardson as Caier or Station. • . .

I wish to emphasize that the Agency vill reorient the Saigon Station

In asy practical way to meet your desires. Personnel, including

the Station Caiel, can be replaced. . . . .

• Lanstale would not be

acceptable to the orzanization or to no personali ...

•If the

decLa,5) is. to abandon all bope ll workinz vith the regime, thea

Richardson probably shairla be replaieda •

• We have no current

intelligence nor resulting estimate in hand which would lead us to

the conclusion that the present regine can be disposed of, or that

there exists a replacement regime which would be better.

This is

not however to say that a coup might not occur even before you

receive this letter

...

23 September

DCT briefing of CIA Subcormittee of House Arced Services

The Director said there did not appear to be any cobesive

mIltary group capable of ousting the Dien regime, and further that

there appeared to be no replacement for the then current regine that

was capable of running the goverment.: A new regime probably would be

no better.

Consequently, the Agency bas urging a cautious, slow

approach to the problem.

- 25 =

SERRET-EYES ONLY

---

## Page 30

007-773 2917

2 October

Report of Molasara-Taylor mission to Vietnam

Ire President on 21 September had Airected. General Taylor and

Secretary Mcivamara to proceed to South Vietnay to appraise le

situation. Their trin lasted from 21 Septenser to 2 October. This

was

the report in which !clararg recourerded that a prugram be

established to train Vietnamese so that esseatial lunations performed

by US military personnel could be carried out by Vietramese by tbe

end of 1965. Ee thougat it would then le possible to withdraw the

bulk of US personnel.

3 October

Personal letter from Lodge to McCone

.. • I agree with shat I understand McNamara bas said

to jou.

The time has come for a ner face.

Bur, I aZse thiz% 0z

Richarison as a devoted and Fatuatic serican

chang of

I October

C.IA.

CIA cable iron Saigon (SAIG 1397)

• In sum, it is clear tbe: Loüge wants 3

change in

Chief or Station. . . .

• . Departing Saigon 1320 nours 5 October

(Corment:" Richardson's departure was based on a besdguarters

request that he return to headquarters on IDY as soon as possible.

Upon Pichardson's departure, his daputy, David R. Smith, becase

Acting Chief of Station."

- 26 -

BEMRET-EYES 031V

---

## Page 31

T-S

5 Octater

Presirestial

Record by sci.

DOl caly

The meeting was held to discuss natters that became the subject

Of Deptel 534 Lee later estry of 5 Octoier?. DeI said it sas the ulist dio

oplatea Of CIA (with tike excepcion of Coloy, C/rs) that fiddliag

Свер

with the Coumodity Import Program as a political lever would be such

nore. likely to create an eccode crisis underuining the var effort

than to scare Diem and Nhu into a more cooperative attitude, because

1t would seriously affect the confidence and planing of the Vietrazese

business community and quickiy engender Inflationary reasures among

the population at large of a more serious nature.

It. was the consensus of the meeting that some meantrul

political movements had to be made, but exactly what they should

be was not deterined.

CIA cable fran Saigon (SAIG 1445)

In a meeting with Conein (approved by the Ambassador on 2

October), Ceneral Minh requested a statement of the US position witb

respect to a change in tie GVI in the rear future.. He said be did

not expect USG support of a coup effort, but did reed US assurgaces

that the USG would not try to thwart his plars. He outlined caree

- 4 -

SASHAT-DIS ONLY

---

## Page 32

14-00000

ST2RT-883 07U7

possible plens for fire accomplistent of the change of sorerment:

(a) assessinaiion of 1igo Dinh Inu and Ngo Dish Can, 2nepizg Fresidast

Dien In office; (b) encirclement of Saigon by various military units;

and (c) direct confrontation tetreen bilitary units involved in the

cous and lojalist military units in Saigon.

5 Octoker (cossinued)

CIA cable from Saigon (SAIG I+-7)

Dave Smith, the Acting COS, cabled that he cad discussed this

latest Conel/Minh meeting with Ascassador Lodge and DOM Iruehart.

Suit reported that he had recomended to Ambascador Lodze tinat:

do not set ourselves irrevocably against the assassination plot,

since the otcer tro alternatives mean either a bioodcath in Saigon

"We

or a protracted struggle rich could rip the aray and the country

asunder."

(Comment: Smith's recomendation to lodge on assassination

drew a prompt response fron headquarters. The

tro entries thet

follo: interrupt ice chronology. They are put here to complete

the story on this significant episode.)

CIA cable to Seizon (DER 73551 utó Cetober)

_ Vecone directs that you withdred recommendation

to Ambassador concerning assassination plan/ under ileCone

Instructions,

as re cannot be in position satirely condoning suca

course of action end thereby engazing our responsibility therefor."

- 28 -

---

## Page 33

SECRET -ETS ONLY

CLA cable fros Saigon (SAIS 1:63 0ª? Cetober)

"Action taken es directede In addition, stace Dal

Trueheart was also present when original recomendation was

nade, specific withdraval of recomendation at MeCone's

Instruction was also conveyed to Trueheart.

Ambassador

Lodge carmented that he shares McCone's opinion.

29

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 34

5 Ostober (contlaued)

State cable to Saigoa (Deptel No. 534)

The Deparcent cabled guidance to the Ambassador resulting from

ISC consideration of the 2 October Mclarara-Taylor report. These points

were included: (1). Existing suspension of new commitrents under

the AID Cormodisy Import Progran will be maintained. (2) PL 480

(condersed milk) v'11l te bandled on a nonta-to-nonth basis but will.

not be suspended. (3) AID Project Loans :11l be "suspended for review."

(4). Ambassador shouid continue his policy of "cool correctness"

toward GVIT

50đ

Wolte Eouse cable to Saigos (CAP 63550)

• • • President today approved recormendation that no faitlative

should now be taken to give any active covert encouragement to a coup.

There should, however, be urgent covert effort iith closest security

under broad guidance oi Anbassador to identify end build contacts

with possible alternative leadership as and when it appears ..

8 October

The U General Assembly agreed to send a fact-finding ission

to South Vietzas to Investigate charges of governent oppression of

Buddhists.

30

SE3 00E

---

## Page 35

SECAET-EVES ONLY

(Concent: The fast-finding Grop left New York. 21. October

and arrived in Salzon on the 24th. " It first ret with Ngo Dinh"

Is and then visited the Ya lol pagoda, considered the command

post of the Buddhist protest coverent, where it found only tro

nonks and South Vietnamese secret policezen. A planned visit

to the An Quang pagoda was barrer by the Diem goverzent. The

mission did manage to visit An Quanz an 27 October and

intervlewed Thich Tinh Kelt in the presence of a number of

secret police. The 1 November generals" coup interrupted the

mission's work, and it left South Vietnam on 3 November.

(The UN General Assembly accepted without vote on 13;"

December a decision to discontinue Investigation of alleged •

repression of Buddhists In South Vietnay. Assembly President

Rodriguez said Buddhist oppression by the government had

ceased to be an Issue since the ouster of the Dien government.

The fact-finding commission had Issued its report on

11 December. It arrived at no conclusions but merely detailed

testimony taken during its probe.).

- 31-

SECRET-EVES ONLY

---

## Page 36

0-B2S 03Y

9 October

Fresident's neus conference

Posit Metri

Thom

"I knoa that the transier of Mr. Join Risbardson, wo is a very

dedicated public servant, has led to surmises, but I cas assure

you

flatly that the Cin ras not carried out incepencent actirities,

but

has operated under close control of the Director of Central

Intelligence operatiaz under the--ita the cooceration or the

National Security Council and under oy instructions."

CIA cable to Saizoa - Eyes Cly for Amcassador (DIR 7:228)

.. While we do not visa to sticulate coup, se also do

not wish to lesve sopression that Us would thiart a change of

government or deny ecosoic and =illtary assisiance to a zed regise

1f it appeared capable of Increasing elfectiveress of silitary

effort, ensuring populer support to vin war and improving corking

relations with US." The cable urges toot the contact insa Minh

press for"detailed infoination clearly Indicating that Kiph's plans

offer a biga prospect of suecess."

(Conment: William Color 1s the origirator of this cable,

and it was released by 3 Cable. Secretariat Duty Officer by

direction of Colby. The text states that these "additional

general thoughts" had been discussed with the President and

that the cable had been cleared with "high officials in White

House, State, Defense and CIA.")

= 32

SENET-ECS DULY

---

## Page 37

SECRET-DIES ONLY

10 Ostocer

Saigon Station's "Elstory of the Vietnarese Gererals! Coup"

The Ambassador lastructed CLA sot to lastiate contact vith

Generals Minh or Don, but if the generals Initiate contact, such

contacts were authorized. In tie courze of reetings idth Mish or Don,

assuranses were to be given as specified in DIR 74228 of 9 October.

DCI briefing of Senate Foreign Relations Camittee

CIA

"We have not seen a successor goverment in the wings that we

could say positively would be an lubrorement over Die. Icerefore faction

a situation might flare up nich night result in suething of a

civil war, and the Communists would come out the victor merely by

sitting on the

sidelines."

33 October

Saigon Station's "History Of the Vietasmese Cererals' Coup"

At a meeting with Conein requested by General Don, Don said

the generals had decided to try to stage & coup vithin a week

following 26 Octobet. Cosein, under Instructions, passed the substance

of DIR 7+228 to Don. Don pronised he would seek pernission of the coup

committee to give Corein their political plan for the Ambassador's

eyes only.

New flas.

- 33 -

SECRET-EVES CALY

---

## Page 38

14-00000

26 Ostoser

Herorendum for the Record prepared by the Executive Director

folloring e seetinz wich Kenneth Fagsen,

Bureau of the Budget

At Fansens Initlal neeting wità Lodge, Lodge nade these charges:

(1) CIA ras Leproperly dealing ta lu; (2) CIA was reluctas: to

turn over to the military 1ts operations arong the dill tribes;

(3) CIA bad inadequate peretrations of the GVil and the Buddhists and

sas caugat by surprise; (4) Richardson had a palatial mansion and

entertained goverment officials there; (5) The CIA Station vas 20o

lance and too visible; (6) CIA acted on its own initiative without

coordination and without any control frey either the Ambassador or

Washington.

Hansen said he later reported to lodge that he thought lodge's

charges were erroreous. He said be was convinced that everythig

CIA had done In Vietnan had been approved in lashington, coordizated

with and carried out under the directions of the fabassador, and had

been carried out with both good judgment and a high quality of

perforsance.

Hansen noted that at the tire of his first meeting with Lodge,

Lodge had not yet had a full briefing on what the Agency vas doing.: This

took place a few days later.

34

SECRET-SIES ONLY

---

## Page 39

SHORT- 2728 OM

2 October (costinued)

Saigos Station's "History O? the Vietsarese Geserals! Coup"

Conein held try seetings with General Don 01 24 October. Dca

reported he had been inforsed bi Ceneral Earins togt the U.S.

military would aot that any coup plans. Dos said the coup plass

were complete; thet the recessary military units "ere availabie; and

that the coup would occur no later than 2 lovember. In the second

meeting, Don said the coup carmittee relused to turn over the political

plan but authorized Don to outline its substarce, which be did.

CIA cable to Saigon (DIR 78161)

bandy

Bres only POT Lodze and Tarian Son PundiT. ... - There

• be danger ihu atteryting entrarent througi Don's approaches to

Conein.

.... • Feel culte stronzly that lodre and Farklas should

stand back fron anx nor-essential involverent.. •

• It seet

wise to maintain close control over reetings between Don and

Conein.

Re CiA

contuct Rea

DON.

CIA cable Pres Saigos (SAIG 1954)

Bundy from Lodze;

"CAS kas been mmctllious in carrdaz 2

Instructions:' •I have percanaliy approved each seetinz beten

General Don and Cosein woo has carried out my orders in eRcia

Instance explicitly. •

lodge

25 October

Presidential Heet

Record of DCI

0 Vietray. CIA pa-sicipant: DCT Only.

- 35 -

---

## Page 40

SEOMET-218 OW7

The President stated that the purpose of the reeting "es to

consider: (1) Iccent actions in SVil with respect to coup piariag

and qualirications of the individuals reporting; and (2) our policy

In SYl, as he wisced to be assured tere as urantalty within the

Delaiked

Movement pelor to the Jesusa. Or taige. for coal tattons. a Dor suiroof

stated his vless 13 datall: In essence, he held: (1) DOn Ilght be/= Easel

raraged by Nau; (2) CIA has no coatrol and therefore could assure

to Pars.

rove

little responsibility; (3) Don could have a coup in tice nacing and

could pull 1i off; (4) We are handling a delicate situation in a

non-professional nanner; i5) Successiul coup would lead to confusion

because generals would provide weak leadership; (6) Che coup vould

be folloved by another ard the far night de lost during period of

political confusion; (7) Civilians capable of running SVN could not

be injected into the governent and exercise effective control; (8)

Cannot discuss important political issues with Dien because of the

polley of "correct, cool attitude;" (9) We either have to work with

Dien and Nhu or we have to take aggressive steps to remove them, and

It is not clear that the succeeding government would ke much ketter.

28 October

Saigon Station's "Zistory of the Vietnamese Generals' Coup"

Ceneral Don esked Lodge if Conela was speaking for the Ambassador.

- 36 -

---

## Page 41

SECHET-EVES 0RC/

Icdge replied in the affirative.

Doa told the Mecassador that tze

US. Goverarent snould not literfere vita or try to stimulate a coup.

The Aroassador agreed with Don.

23 October (continued)

Saigon Station's "Ilstory Of the Vistnarese Gererals' CO-s"

Conein met with General Don for the last tize before the coup:

wag launched. Don confined that he had talked with the Ambassador who

had vouched for Coneln. Don stated he was leaving, on 29 October to

coordinate final plans. Don requested Corein to remain at bon

beginning 30 October-until further notice. Don repeated that the

Ambassador would have the plans before the coup began, but ices:

pressed on his previous comitment to make then avallable i8 bours 1n

advance, Don said that possibly the plans could only be made available

four hours in advance. Don said nothing vould be happeniry "ithin the

next 48 hours and that, if there was a good reason for the Asbassador

to change his planned 31 October departure, the Ambassador could be

Inforued in time to make his on decision.

• 37 as

SEGRET -EVES ONLY

---

## Page 42

SEGRET-EYES ONLY

29 Ostober

CIA cable frou Saigon (SAIG 2010)

In an eyes only cable seat via CIA channels, Lodge gives his

Vers on the seemingly laineat coup: "In s'mary, li would appear

that a coup atteupt by the gecerals' group is iminent ..: and that

so positive action by tie USt can prevent a coup attempt short of

Informing Dien and Nau. . .

• Although tcere have been no requests

to date by the generals ior material or financial support, ve nust

anticipate

that suca reguest say le forthcching. . ...

residential Meeting on

Vietn CIA participants:

_ DCI, DDP,

& C/FE.

Record by EDP & C/FE.

It was suggested that in the Ampassedor's absence, Harkins,

Trueheart, and David Snith act as a coumittee to direct any coup

operation. DCI countered with the vied that Saith should not be?

involved in such a polisy making zuastion, althouga he would be in

a position to provide technical advice to Harsins and Trueheart as

well as carry out their instructions in the operational field. The

President stated that if the forces in Saigca were not clearly In

favor of the coug, we sbould discourage Its launching.

The Attorney

General felt the US was riskiag too muce based on flimsy evidence.

The DCI stated his view that eves a successial coup would create a

period of interregun and confusion which nigat only be solved by

a second or third coup.

iTerate

- 38 -

SEGRCE-1783 ONL/

---

## Page 43

30 Cotober

sCIA cable to Saigon (DIR 79109)

Sady to lodre."

chances of action with or sitiout

our approval nor so significant tcat we should urgently consider our

attitude end coatingency plaas... ... Belleve our attitude to

coup group can still have decisive effect on its decision. :..

He must have assurance calance of forras: clearly frunnhie

• We badly need

some corroborative evidence whether Minh and others directly and

completely lavolved. . ... • highest auchoritz desires 1+ aerolo

understcod that after your deparcure farklas should participate in

super.ision of all coup contacts and that in event a coup begins,

he become head of country tean..

CIA cable from Salgoa (SAIG 2063)

Lodge's reply: " ..

do not thirt ve have the sover to

delay or discouise a cous.

Don iss rade it cheer many tires that

this is a Vietra ese arbir.

• I tejieve we should continue

our present position of keeping hands off but continue to moaitor

and press for more detailed Inforsation. CAS has been analyzing

forces for sane time and it 1s their estimate toat the generals have

probably figured their chances pretty closely. .

• It does

not seem sensible to have the military in charge of a matter snich

18 so protonder political as a charza of torerment

Vich

68.

Fa. If ve vere convinced that the coup

CIA cable to Saigan (DIR. 79407)

CAP 63598: "

• We do not accept as a basis for US policy

that we have no power to deley or discourage e coup.

We

cannot limit ourselves to proposition implied in your message that only

conviction of certain failure justifles interestion. . . . . . US

euthorities vill reject appeals for direct intervention froo elther

side. •

The Waite House repeats its instructions an

carmand of the country tean after Loige leaves.

•= 39 -

SEOMAT-DIE3 ONLY

---

## Page 44

30 Ostober (continued)

CIA cable

frON

Sa! 2on. (CAIG 2094)

Cable from lodze (In Its entiret?): "Thanks for your sagacious

instruction.

W1l1 carri

to best of Ey ability

I'lovesber

The coup began at 1315 hours, Saigon tine, which is equivalent

to 0015 hours, Washington time, 1 November. The following account

coup and various cables...

L At 1315 hours, the Alde de Camp to Ceneral Don case to Conein's

house, told him that the coup was in progress, and said toat General

Don wanted Conein at Joint General Staff (JGS) headquarters. The

S01-Đ2 CI

---

## Page 45

14-00000

SJSXMT--2:32 00227

We can neither confirm nor refute from the record.

Taus, Conein weut to JCS headquarters and remained at the

command post througbout the struggle.. Before leaving his home,

Conein alerted the station by radio. Upon arriving at JGS headquarters,

Conein was told by Cereral Don that Don had tried unsuccessiully to

reach Conein earlier by telephore. A later check revealed that

Conein's telephone vas out of order. Conein was told tiat he was to

keep a telephone lice open to the Ambassador. Because there was & CIA

officer on the scere and in intinate contact with the coup princicals,

- 41-

---

## Page 46

tine station val able to report alost airute-byninute progress of

14/2

Weathe coup. :

The Pact that Conen was at IGS headquarters is well known in

Official circles. On 24 October, headquarters bad cabled the station:

"In future do not repeat not put nessage re coup plots or rmors in

CRITIC cannel. Father you should slug them INMEDIATE ATTENTION FOR

BRETT." As a consequence, the first cabled reports from the station

came in as regular CIA cables and were put onto the CRITIC network

here at headquasters. Tae first cable ves recelved et headquartera

at 0117 hours, Washington tine, and yas filed on e CRIMIC network.

at 0159. At 0256 hours, following recept of the sixth don-CRITIC

cable, beadquarters instructed the station to put the coup reporting

on the CRITIC network at the station. Sometine during the day of

1 Movember (the confirmation copy of the cable lacks a date/time

stamp) headquarters cabled a varning to the station against including

the names of CIA personnel in Its CRITIC cables. Conein is Identified

by came and as being at jos headquarters la eleven CRITIC messages,

seven of which were put into the CRITIC channel, without the name

being deleted, here at keadquerters.!

_At 1030 hours 2 Novenber (in Saigon) the Saigon radio announced

* that both Dien and Nhu had committed suicide by taking poison. Inter

In the day General Minh said that Diem ard Ihu escaped from Gia Long

42

SEBNET-DIES ONLY

---

## Page 47

Palace shortly after 0700 hours on 2 lovenber bs a tunnel unmom

Wo the generals: They left the tunel in the doc area and vent to

& Carolic church in Coolon where they took poison. They were

discorered at the church at 1030 hours.

We do not have a truly reliable account of the circunstances

of their deaths, but they certainly were not by suicide. Accordirg

to one of Copein's reports, Diem called General Don at 0650 hours

2 November and offered to surrender unconditionally. General Minh

lamediately ordered all telephones removed fran rooms in their JCB

cumand post arca. This cut off all communication with the outside

except for radios under Minh's control..

On 16 Hovember 1963 a Meld-grade officer of the JGS, who vas

deeply tavolved in the coup and whose rellability the station could:

not judge (nor did 1t sane hin), gave a station officer two photographs

of the bodies of Dier ard hu, which he claimed be had taken at the

request of General Its. The photographs show that the deaths vere

very bloody. The source gave the fallowing accouat of the deaths:

The officer was present when the Military Bevolutionary

Comittee debated tre ultimate disposition of the brotters,.

accompanied the force that apprenended them, and witzessed: tke

events i-ediately aiter their deaths. He was not present in

the M-113 armored personnel carrier at the tine of the deaths.

A lergthy argent too's place on the nigat of 1-2 November

as to the ultimate disposition of Dien and Inu, with nost of the

generals favoring their execution. The ultimate decision vas

= 43 =

SECRET-ENDS OURY

---

## Page 48

S46 MET -EVES GLL7

to k1l1 tray. h Captaln "ung was dealgrated as executioner.

Con the porzing of 2 fovenier, the Committee received a

phone call froy a casual infor ant telling dere Dies and

knu could be found. A force was dispatched to apprehend

them. This appears to conflict with Coreta's report that the

pores bad been pulled out Shortly after 10:00 a.Il., Die

and hu entered the personnel carrier with Captain thung.

Upon arrival at the JCS beadguarters, Dien and Mau vere

dead. Nhu had been stabbed 21 times in the back with a caroine

bayonet and snot live tines. Dien bad been scot trice in tbe

chest. Naung leaped Iron the M-113 vita the bayonet in kand

and proudly displayed it to all observers. His ams were

soaked with blood. From the protos, 1t looks as 1f Diem and:

Tou had their bands tied behlad tbeir backs.

то rcap:

a. CIA was not in favor of the decision to abandon the

liaf

Dies regine, but faithfully carried out instructions.

b. CIA officers Conein and Spera vere the contacts vith the..

coup generals, but only as approved and under instructions.

c. A CIA officer, Cozeln, was at the gererals" command

post throughout the Ilgating.

e. CIA had no hand lu the assassinations and had no

foreknowledge of them.

---

