# 104-10169-10023

## Page 1

104-10169-10023

SE0.2

Duque

'81 February 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR Adeletant to the Director

el Central Intelligence

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

" Mr. A. Anstla Bricker

1 Lotter from

dated 11 February 1962

I. The informadles contained la rubfort's letter do of

aporational lateroas to WH/A. No have cabled the Mlams Fold

Statien sequenting contact and su

elment no poor as possible.

Bo Wo recommead that no reply be mado to tale la

SIGNED

0. J. 2003Y

Giled, WH/A

Allachments Basle Lotter (IR 42-1009)

Diatribution:

Orig. le 1 - Addresnee

1 = Inecutive Regietry

1 • 201 File

• WH/4/Exee

03

all (23 Jebruary 1962)

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do. Not Reproduce

Cs cory

SECRET

70 1= 80200€

21BR-

---

## Page 2

14-00000 g

ER 62/009

ereal Intelligence izene,

reshiglen, 1.C

To where it way arceer;

& Me de

ho arever. to this counces Inal lurober

chon citiga

ahon by book My alier number is: (ell 00914).

Lind, therugh Key Mee

your (ostro d aurses in the montairs o! the isobray without

ovie prevate deziris,

044

arivnto necessiles to aunlinue on start a real un agairst the

Red Militie men thil me suwundung us night al this very moment

In the Escmbray's wurtaind.

locurenes in identity misalf tie brought a seller pade some ind

a seith the (.D.A.

• suppling at he cial a loden lu get a noal quick help, and

nd because fine to here che soner userine with al the le

sould get right anny.

he hedo du

A туб.

Sincerely series,

105,08

SIBR

---

