# 104-10076-10048

## Page 1

104-10076-10048

TO:

I DRECTOR

FROM

ACTION.

INFO

JMWAVE

C/SAS 5

DCP, ADDP, C/cI, C/Fi 2,

BS CRET 0502152

IN

DIS CITO HAVE 8515

7375%

5: 0EC 63

PYAT TYPIC AYCANJE

.: VAVE 8453 (420890)

1 LATE DEVELOPMENTS AMCANOE OP.

AO A DECE OSCAR FERNANDEZ AND FREDIY GARCIA CALLED

MANGANELLO TO CLARIFY ADDITION, UNCLEAR, PORTIUNS 3 DEC CALL

BETVEEN AICANOE-3 AND FREDDY GARCIA.. IN A 3/ SARCIA CONVERSATION,

A-S STATED "HAKE CERTAIN YOU TELL MY VIFE THAT EMELINA ME ABRAZO

REPEAT EMELINA ME ABRAZO.- A-S VIFE IN MIAMI ADVISED THIS PRIVATE

CODE PURASE SETUEEN HUSBAND AND WIFS MEANING A-S IN INMINENT

DANGERS THAT YE ARTESTED OR ASOUT TO BE. " ACCORDINS TO GARCIA,

IT OBVIOUS THAT A-S COULD NO LONGER USE CASE OFFICER CHALLENGE

LS. MAIR DYING, TWO LEFT FEET, SINCE ANCANOSTZ ALSO SIVEN SOME

CHALLENGE AND IT PROB KNOW MOM TO OSE.

P. GERARDO COULEY IS BROTHER-IT-LAS OS BOSE -FEPITOR

MARTI, PARI-MUTUAL EMPLUYES WHOSE ARREST REPORACO REFS MARTI

NSO KNEY AS SAPERDISES AT ENSLIO 06 DELICA CABANAS.

GOTY MARTI AND COILSY FRIENUS A-S COQLEY AND CARO FREINOS ALSO.

EVENINES TER SON DE ORA VENON" SOTOLONGO DOVISED

SECRET

CHAS 4H6 02 1031

20 2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CASEROUSED THERE AND FIVE.

IN LETTER DATEO 8 OOT, MOTHER STATED

AMCAN DEOS NO LONGEX THERE BUT FINE. FINAL LETTER DATED 15 NOV

MOTHER STATED ANCANOE-S STILL FINE. SON RECEIVED CALL 3 DEC FROM

TOZ GTATING THAT HIS MOTHER HAD LEST FOR "SHUPPINU" ON 2S NOV

ANNOT SACK YET.

TO SON AND GARCIA THIS COVER CONVERJATION

JEANS MOTHER ARRESTED BY OSE.

FLORA IS AUNT AMCANOE-S WHO SAFE-

HOUSED A-3 DIRING HIS PREVIOUS CLAVDESTINE TRIPS CUBA AND MAS TELE-

PROVE VR 214-7730

DO OSCAR FERNANDEZ HAD SON OF FLORA TELEPHONE HABANA A DEC.

SOV REPORTED IT CONFIRMED THAT MOTHER AND FATHER HAD BEEN ARRESTED

SINCE 83 NOV•

2.

NO WAVE TRACES FLORA SOTOLONGO, HOWEVER 52 HABANA

TELEPHONE DIRECTORY LISTS SUBSCRIBER OF NR 212-773 #J FELIFE ECHEZ

ALPARR+ (271-739526) CALLE 182 NR 1312.: SUBJ IS ARCHITECT AND

DORY OF INDUSTRIES FORMERLY IN CONTACT GEORGE F

SINIARIS HAVA STATION CASE OFFICER AVO AGENT CANDIDATE ANGLEY-9:

GRANTED POA PER DIR 84398. ANGLEN-S IN CONTACT THROUGH EMILIO

CAR3O OSCAR PERMANDEZ REPORTED FLORA SUTOLONSO MENDEZ IS

PELIPE GOMEZ VIFS.

3. BARCIA ALSO REPOPTER CHANSE IN IS'O FARA I C RER FHONE

NUMBER SAS NOT OSTAINED S707 ANCANCE-S PUT TAL MGAA P!

A VAVE VOT FLAVNING USE STATION AGETS EXFIL ASCLUE-S ST

CHER ADANDE CONTACIS UNTIL RECEIPT FILL CLARIFICATOR WESTLY

SUSPICIDUS: TEVELOPAEATE BURNGUADIYO HIGHTO-S FRET THREE VESTS

TACH, INCLUDES

SO: APRESTS OF SOSE FARTI, FELIPE CONZZ ALBERRAS BED WIFT;

30165 140: 142 319801 E397252 4284-3

DERIVE FEEIRUEL 110.211O &7E5122

301020. 50

as is it

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HIDING,

C. A-S PASSINO DANGER SIS#ALO

D.

TELEPHONE FROM WHERE AS MADE 82 AND 25 NOV PHONE CALLS

POSSIBLY BELONGING TO DSE CAPT UNO CHIEF TELEPHONE COPANY

MORIE SERIC®

VAVE PLANNING TRY CAUTERIZE PROSABLE OPS DAMAGE BY

EXFILTRATING EMILIO

AND OR ANGLES AND AHRIFE-D AND A•

SECRET

C/S CONTENT: "HE LATE DEVELOTIZITS ANCANDE OP

PM

---

