# 104-10428-10288

## Page 1

1104-10428-102881

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

Inside Washington

200164

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War r

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

And PAUL SCOTT

WASHINGTON

Oct. 20.

-The Central Intelli

gence

Agency

vital

withheld

intelligence

infor•

mation

from the Warren

Commission during its

vestigation

of

the

in-

assas-

sination. of

President

Kennedy.

Despite

the

commis

sion's written request for

all documents that might

shed light

on the assa-

sination

CIA authorities

failed to turn over a na-

tional

mate

intelligence

esti-

warning

that it

is

Kremlin policy to remove

from public

office by

as-

sassination

Western offi-

cials who actively oppose

*Soviet

Titled Sovie

"Soviet Strategic

Executive

Action,"

suppressed

CIA

the

docu-

ment went into the shock-

ing details of how agents

of KGB, the Soviet secret

police,

away

are trained to do

with Western lead-

ers,

including officials in

the

. S.,

and to

their

make

deaths appear due

to

natural causes.

One of the KGB's new-

ly

devised

assassination

wapons is

_"a: pnumati-

cally. operated poison ice

'atomizer, •

which

no

leaves

wound or

other exi

dence of the cause

death."

of-

While this deadly weap

on has yet to

be

used

against

ern

any

high

West-

official, hundreds of

KGB

agents

covertly op-

erating outside of

Russia

have

been

this

supplied

with

pocket-size

gun,

awaiting only

orders

from Moscow to

use it.

The Murder

Weapons

HIGHLIGHTS

of

the

suppressed

intelligence

estimate, which is locked

in a security area within

the

tightly-guarded CIA,

are

as follows:

"It

has

been reported

that the KGB endeavors

to remove the.. threat

to

Soviet interests posed by

certain members of West-

ern governments, s om e-

times.

arranging for the

dismissal of such persons

from public office, at oth

them

even

'eliminated'

having

physi

cally u ch

activities

are

known to

against

other

the undertaken

types

persons in the West, not-

ably

defectors from

the

U.S.S.R.

and from

countries of

other

the Soviet

bloc.

"One recently reported

assassination technique is

to

electrocute an individ-

ual

by

Juring

him

to

use a telephone, connect-

ed to a high-voltage wire,

during a thunderstorm.

"Another

use

involves

of

the

pistol

which

projects a poison gas in

liquid

form.

The

within

se:

autopsy

its

use.

poisons ha

which

fect

unt:!

after being

thus allowi

to

be far !

when

"A

his

kno

source

has

pneumatica

poison

ice

which

leav

or other

ev

Cause of

de

Congressi

gators,

that

whe

the ni

committee

Documents

OTHER US inten

nice exper

• very du

ous of " Russia"s. CO-

istence line,

stress that

the Warren Commis

have

saves beed

findings

might

different it

this CIA

estimate and

Dther

docoments :

sup

pressed by the State De.

partment had been avail.

They sent out that

the

iT Stale Department

suppressed evidence link-

ing

Oswald with

- its

one of

employes, • who

.aC.

cording to

security. files,

"presented

pro

Soviet

views

question

strong every

con

that

came • up

- in

the Departments

U.S.S.R.

country commit.

tee®

while

he

member.

was in

This State Department

official's

name also

ap.

peared . ir

the

address

pook of a enspected So

viet

agent

who

in

the :U.S.

in

arrived

1943, ac

cording

to " government

Files.

Congressional investi

gators

also

have • been

shocked to discover that

CAs assarination

now bye adiminitration

officials to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass:),

DEXt

m line to succeed Presi

dent Johnson.

While

FBI officiaks

warned

Speaker

McCor-

mack,

dedicated

and

Comminist, that he is on

the list

Westem offi

cials feared by the Krem

Im,

по

CLA

authority

has shown the No. 2 man

in goverment

the CIA

report

listing these

10.

cret

Soviet assassination

methods.

Instead,

M c Co rmack

learned about the: report

only.

recently

from..con

gressional

probers

who

10. determine

Why

been suppressed.

document. has

The

investigators also

say the CiA deter

determine

why the

pre

assassination

the

report

to

State Department on

Oswald's trip

to

Mexico

Ciy gave details only

of

the defector's visit to the

Russian embassy and not

the Cuban embassy.

The

CIA did

not

report the

latter

visit

until

Kennedy's

STIDD

in Dallas.

p. 8593

The caller foon the

Embass

Catan

was unidentified!

vorces

851? Сотраля

Opiag

at lowe right

@whose hadwriting

67.0F71

Are you sure?

---

## Page 2

Page Denied

---

