# 104-10072-10239

## Page 1

104-10072-10239

C.663

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

24 March 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting With WUSLAB/Jon 19 March 1970

1.

PRODUCTION:

I phoned (WUSLAB/Ion 17 March and we

chatted for a time on recent news from Bolivia.

A very pro

minent newspaper publisher and his wife had, been killed by

A boss der venes to see that the military forces in the

cabinet around General Valencia were more inclined to take

action to restore

"law and order".

there-were various rumor.

bout the motivation of the bombing, and w/l/ noticed the

similiarities to the murder of

in the MNR

one

month ago.

2. On the morning of

out to his house.

His daughterarch by prearrangement I went 08

let me in and said that the seen can attit

We had a generalized conversation

about history and about

current events

in Bolivia.

He thinks that the civilian members

of the cabinet are on their way out and that the military will

replace them.

overturned by the mob. - That government also had civilian

., Which was

elements including W/1

s father.

They were forced out and

eventually, the government was overturned in violent fashion.

will

then go over

the

psychological

makeup of Viera.

4.

Medical:

The specialist in

examined [W/1/on

[18 March and reported that he was making a satisfactory recovery.

15 days.

He can take off his

LUUSLABI

ORS

FLOYD B. MCCULLY

CS COPY

853023

POUCI SOCORITE VULdieu

NO FIELD DISTRECURION

"??:

---

