# 104-10228-10042

## Page 1

104-10228-10042

T.is:.

7110

TOrO MОділлО REPDAT

rgin!

/: ":

JECRCT

Rud tedlea.

ra?!"

Worento,

EURTTANON CiOAS

ird:.

INRORMATION COrits

TCCS DII-: 662.002

CI OPS, COIC FA. FOM. FI/NT S, 1N 2. CA &, CAIPRO, OS. NH 6

DATE DISIRBUTIO

31 December 1862

THW K

TEEE:

MIEE

P.M

wetonhd

os sao catEiG

VASiID

51• 98

ARUT

HANOLING INSiRUCTIÓNS

PeICIniNrT

SPWiNATION

TII TACYT

jacuins

BASHO CON 19:O

Rpl, Pioj.)

HAVE-2957

118-420131

ND PROJFCT

Llaisun'a

NAVY

CONTROLLED DISSEN

DD/ P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AL'THENTICATING OFPICIR

COORDINATING OFFICIRIS

CLSNFICATION

estati no cixaer

SL9Д M1.

Bslaen

SECRET

(19 no fiaad baj

TReNSino o

ra diri Irter

ICOPF NO•

---

## Page 2

14-00000

INTORAATION FIEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINES

S-F.-C-R-E-T

COlLED D1S5Y

cousiar CUBA

SUBJECT

CONWANTS BY FRYEIDO OLIVA ON THE

ATTITUDES ME THE RECENTLY REICASED

CUBAS PRISONERS

8e9a91d. B0s6 D4-3/655.057

DATE DISTR.

31 DECEYBER 1962

PRCCICINSE PRIORITY

DATE Of

DECEMBER 1962

INFO.

ind 12013

PLACEA

CHIIED STATES (28 DECEMBER 2962)

DARE ANG

APPRAISAL 3

SCURCE

THIS IS UPE VALUATRE RA MARDS TOURCE CRADLE SADE SIR TRIUE

112600.9190

OF THE BRICANE.

OF COME TENT DESEVER (E) FROM LANETIO SLIVE,

AGE PETE ERMATOR

1. THE FOLLOWING IS A SUMMARY OF STATENESTS MADE RY ERSEIDO

OLIVA, SECOND-IN-COULAYD OF THE BRIGADE, FOLLONTIG THE RELSASE OF THE

BRIGADE PRISONERS:

A, THE BRIGADE WAS LOOKING FORWARD TO THE 29 DECEMBER

STADIUM EVENT IN MIAMI AS AS OPPORTUSITY TO DEXONSTRATE ITS D'AS

STRENGTH AND UNITY AND TO GAUGE THF EXTENT OF APPEAL, ASD SYMPATHY OF THE

EXILE COLOVY, HOPEFULLY, THE BRIGADE EXPECTS TO SERVE AS A UNIFYING

FORCE OF THE POLITICA, GROUPS AND FRAGHETTS IN THE MIAMI AREA, ALTHOUGH

OLIVA STRESSED THE FACT THAT THE BRIGADE DID NOT CONSIDER ITSELF AS A

POLITICAL, BUT RATHER A MILITARY GROUP.

B. TAZ BRIGADE CONTISUES AS THE MILITARY ARY OF THE CONSE.O

CLISSFICATiON MIDDLINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

if a vasted

tom grada)

PIROLLER DISSEN

":3811011191s

#BOXERTE

Lite TaBL

TeLeGRA

BERCLICLAST

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAMS

PORE IND ONDOLATE PASTIONS HOSTERAGE

118-20.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA RISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

-l-i

COOD DISSE!

1:11.:

100501-3. 6.6. 099;

REVOLECIO•ANDO CUBASO CERO, CURE HESOLUTIOSARS CONSCILD, AT LEAST AUR

• FUE: PHESLIT, AND LUNS TORAND THE CHO SON SITERIAL ASSISTANCE TO

ESTAULISH BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS, ETC. THE LEADERS PLANTED TO "KALEASE"

BRIGADE MIXIERS FOLLOWISÜ THE COMPLETION OF THE 29 DECEMBER EVENT SO

THAT THE XEN COULD FIND JOBS, GET REST, AND LOOK AFTER TUEIS FAMLIES.

THEY ALL KION THAT THEY WILL DE SUNJECT TO RECALL. WIFS THEIR COUNTRY

NEEDS THEN AGALY. MEANIE, SU% LEADERS CYTEND TO EXANTEE VARIOUS

ASENUES FOR A SOLUTION OF THE CUBAS PROWLEM. IF ALI. NOADS ARE BLOCKED,

TIFS THEY WILL RESIGS THENSELVES TO A SOLUTION OF PERSONAL AND FAMILY

SURVIVAL PRODLEMS, NOW, HOWEVER, STILE, CONSCIOUS OF THEIR DUTY TO THEIR

FATHERLANO, THEY INTEÑO TO TRY TO FIND A SOLUTION.

C. THE BRIGADE LEADERS' OOSSRIATIONS DURING AND FOLLONIXO

THEIR IMPRISONMENT HAST LED THEM TO CONCLUDE THAT CIANDESTINE

ORGASIZATIONS INSIDE CUBA ARE MINIMAL AND LEADERS TO HEAD A GUERRILIA

EFFORT ARE SOLEXISTEST. SINCE THE APM. 19G1 INVASION, THE CASTRO

FORCES HAVE BEES INCREASEO SUMERICALLY AND HAVE LERY FURNISHED WITH

LEPHONED AIMAMENT.

2. FIELD COMMENT: OLIVA REFERED TO THE INPRESSIVE DISPLAY OF

CURAN AIR POWER ON THE DAS THE BRIGADE PRISONERS WERE RELEASED WIEN

20 VIG'S FLEN DUER THE AIRPORT. CONSEQUENTLY, IT IS MIS FIRM CONFICTION

THAT THE BRIGADE IS THE ONLY COVVESTIOSAL WARFARE MILITARY IFFORT ABLE

TO DESTRUY THE CASTRO MILITARY MACHINE.

3. FIELD DISSEN: CINCIANT, CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

SE 2-REST

POITROLLED DISSEN

---

