# 104-10210-10153

## Page 1

104-10210-10153

/ 048

SECRET

5.- B

FRP:

STAFF

CO:F: C/LE-8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, C/CCS, C/CI•U, c/EPS/EG2,

CIEURBO, CHIADIC, CHILDIOS, CHINTIFL, COOGIEMS, CAPCS, CAPUS/POL, CAPM,

OLCA (3110)

79 1544033

PAGE

001

TOT:

0922562 NOV 78

DIRECTOR 324426

SECRET

STaFF 0922557

DIRECTOR 324426

TO:

PRICRITY

INFO

RYBAT AKULE KDAFGHAN

41913 1541466

REFS: A.

D, 59

1 .

A2999Y4.3

APPRECIATE REF A.

PERUIRED

RE PARA ONE, THERE ARE NO PARENT COMPANY

STATIO:

TO CONTACT KD:FEUR I (K=1)

BELIEVE DECISION

WHETHER KE

SHOULD

BIJRID DIRECTOR

BERLITZ OF ASCA REGUEST IS ONE BEST LEFT TO

CISCRETIC

• OF ADI:

IN ORDER TO ASSIST KEL IN MAKING HIS DECISION,

REQUEST

INFORM K-I OF THE OVERSE REACTION TO THE PUELICITY

AFFECTING K-I

REPORTED REE HAND DOTAIN HIS VEENS RESTATION

MAY KISM

TO ASSURE KEI

THAT TO AVOID

ANY FURTHE? PUSLICITY SITE HAS OPTED

FOR INTERVIEN TO BE CONDUCTED IN U.S.

RATHER THAN IN EUROPE.

PLEASE

SOVISE -ES REACTION AND ALSO IF HE ANTICIPATES WHETHER HE FORESEES

ANY PROSLEM IN TAKING LEAVE.

2.

RE PARA 2 OF REF A, BELIEVE IT

BETTER

FOR

ALL CONCERNED IF STATION CAN INDUCE KI TO COME TO

STATES FO? INTERVIEN®

ASSURE A-I THAT USG WILL PAY ALL EXPENSES

INCURRED.

IF K=1 RECEPTIVE TO TRAVEL TC U.S., PLS OSTLIN MIS VIENS

O: TIMING OF TRIP.

IF K/I BALKS AT HOLDING MEETING IN U.SDA

MILL EXPLORE WITH

HSCA POSSIBILITY. OF NEETING ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE,

3.

HOS RECORDS FAIL REFLECT KOL'S PRESENT CITIZENSHIP. WOULD

APPRECIATE IF

CAN CLARIFY THIS

POINT WITH K=1.

FOR YOUP SACKGROUND

I"FORMATION, L

16898 (28 JULY 1972) PEPORTED THAT STATION PLANNED

HAVE THE KDAFGHANS APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL ON CUBAN

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 1544033

PAGE 002

TOT:

0922567

NOY 78

DIPECTOR 324626

PASSPORT!

APPLY FOR

SPALIde

CONTACTED T

FURTHER THAT ACCORDING TOIL

EE LATINS

ARE ABLE TO

TrO YEARS RESiDENCE

17219 611 SEPT 197220 STATION REPORTED THET

Ka.!

ITE ON II SEPTEMBER TO EXPLAIN REASO! I

AUNTIL HIS SPANISH RESIDENCE ESTADLES-ED.

"MICH WOULD BE APPZOXIMATELY THREE MONTHS AFTER MIS ARRIVAL IN SPE

MOST RECENT INFORMATION IN MOS FILES ON KOL'S CIT-LENSMIP IS

18039 (S JANUARY 1975) WHICH REPORTED THAT

ASE HAS OF THE

JFINION THAT THERE GAS NO PROSLEM IN DOCURENTIIG KI AS "STATELESS"

EN. THE BASIS HE

"LOST" HIS ME

EE DOCUMENTS, AND THAT KEL SHOULD

REPORT TO THEN

4, PLEASE KEEP MOS AND NEXICO CITY ADVISED YOUR CONTACT WITH

5°

FILE: 20100288248,

E2 IMPDET.»

ORIG:

AC/LAIMGSB (LEHMAN

X-1222, GREY

3-826311 CDORD: PCS/PE

(SHEPANER); OLE (PCANSCA,(BRECKINRIDGE):

OCALIANR

I/LIS ASS LAISTE SINFO; AUTH: COLAD SHARPENDE PELE

DC/EUR/M

mana CL BY 007255.€

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

2033

---

