# 104-10071-10096

## Page 1

104-10071-10096

SECRFT:

«REPOICH

DISP NO-502 1757

DATE

Bl to 1118188 1973

FILE - JEFFK

INDEX - YrS

то .

- CHIEF, CHINA MPERATIONS

CHIEF, VIFTNAM OPFRATIONS

INFO

-CHIEF. FR DIVISION

16-41

FROM.

- CHIEF DE HASF.

2P

1. ALTHOUGH THEY DO NOT REGARD HEY HIGHY, LNERGO MEE

PASSED A LEAD ON MA. L'IS KIT NEP, A CHISAGE ATTRANEY AND : :':

FOUNDER OF WORLD MABFAS CORPUS. IN ADDITION TO ENERGO, SIr, ICT

HAS PREVINUSLY CONTACTED WID ISH CHICAGO, WHICH WAS TOLD PY ITS

HOS NAT TO CONTINUE THE RFLATIONSHID. HOWEVER, IN THE OFF

CHANCE THAT THERE MAY RE SIME INTEREST, THE FOLLOWING IS FOR-

WARDED.

A. MR. KITVE ALLEGES A CLOSE RELATIONSHIO WITY PRINCE

NORDIM SIHANDIX AN MAINS UE HAS BFEN INVITED TO MEET

THE PRINCE DIRING A FORIHCOMING TOUR DUT OF CHINA. HE HAS SUR-

MITT FD A VIMPER

OF MIME DRAPED HUSLETTERS FROM THE GOVERNMENT

IN EXILE WHICH INDICATE THAT HE IS. AT LEAST ON THFIR MAN. ING LIST.

P. MP. KINNE? ELSE ALI GOES THAT MF MAS PEEN TOP HE

WIL. BE ALI AFT TO OPEN A WORLD MAPFAS CORPUS OFFICE IN PERTUE.

ALTHOUGH THF CONNECT AFTH IN THE TENETS OF THAT MOVEMENT AND

THOSE OF IF DICTATORSMIP OF THE GiOLETAHIAT ARF NOT CLEA?. IV

•ANY EVENT HE ESTIMATES THE OFFICE GOD RE SET UP FOR SES" "AR.

IF WE WISH TO FIRNICH THAT SUM, HF WORD OPEN THE OFFICE FOR S

AND ALLAN IS TO STAFF IT COMQFTELY WITH MR MUN PERILE.

?. PLEASE ADVISE IF THERE. IS ANY INTEREST IN INVESTIGATING

FITHER OF THESE MAIMS. IF THERE 19. AL

OFFICER IN ALIAS

16-41

7.514

---

## Page 2

14-00.000.

PAGE 2 (VICA? 1757 SECRET

WILL CONTACT MR. MUTNER AND ATTEMPT TO VERIFY HIS ALLFGATICN

AND DETERMINF WHAT IF ANY POTENTIAL FYISTS. ER IMPRET

CHARLFS R.. ACHST FTTER

DISTR IPIT ICN :

? A CACHINA OPS

•? A C/VN ops

2. A C/ FR

SECRFT

APRATUSE

---

