# 104-10072-10101

## Page 1

104-10072-10101

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/S

PROCESSING ACTION

LIARMED FOR INDEXING

TO

WiFO.

FROMB

Chief, SB

Chief, EUR

Chief of Station,

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESR

CAN JLOCS INDEXING

SEP 8.1856

$ 1s

BICROSIS

SUBJECT

KG3/2nd. Chiet Directorate - Rim

ZArTOOk nee SHIRABOVA;

DEOB IS

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

January 1509,, Loscow

During Brigitte F.

VASSERIAUr's visit in larch 1966,

she mentioned Subject to the

analyst assigned to Second

Chief Directorate activities.. The latter has nor written a

sumary of information fron

files on Subject and attached

three photographs of subject wich are trensaitted herevith.

2.

states:

"Wuen (VASSIRLAUF) was here last Larch, one of the INdex

cards which she looked at was for SHIRAROVA.

Since then I

have discovered that SHIRANOVA figures in the Warren Repori

as the intourist guide provided for Lee OSVALD on his Errival

In Loscow in October 1959. Our inforuation about bor is

briodly as follows:

"SITINANOVA has come to our notice as the friend of tuo

British brothers who first visited the Soviet Union in 1900.

She and a nale guide joined the party with which the brothers

were trovelling at the Ruesion border, One of the brothers,

who has pursued the friendship nore then the ochcr

ke nade the running, not sHiralovA.

Le class the relations

between then have becone eficetionate, but are platonic.

faci since he first met SIRArOVA she hos married and had &

chala, and our source visiis their home when he goes to the

Soviet Union. They alco maintain a sicady correspondonce.

"Aster the bürth of her daughter de Cetones 158G. lL

SHIRAGOVA, nOw ErS. QuIrODi, vrote tubt she lad left

Intotsist

and ves employed as a teacher of Englich in &

Loscow teachous tzaining college.

"the tro brothers lost visited the ZUNITOOKS do their

new housing estate in Loccow in August 1900.

of the things Rana showed then was an albun of coloured post

cards of places in the U.B.A: wnich she claimed hoc loon sent

her by an American in return for money she had icat lin when

he vas visiting the Soviet Union and ran short of funds.

unfortunately ous source was not able in discoyer tie? sify

of the American or anything about him.

261- 257248

COP!

AUS 17 1SA

CROSS REFERESCE TO

DISPATCH SYLaBOL

AND COMBER

DATE

46115

15 August 1966

CLASSIFICATION

ROS FILE GUMBER

SECRET /R

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

9561

USE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISFAILI

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

36115

-2-

"SHIFTOVA's perconal particulars are as follous:

Born:

18 Jamery 1939 in Loscow

Husband:

valerly Zhinsol: born 29 october 193?,

Engineering student

Dace of marriage:

1803

Addrecs:

LOSCON E - 123."

08 2L09 TADES.

INTRCO

Distributzon

2

- 03 w/Act.

3

w/hEt.

MIGROFIGHE

REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROV

AFTER USE

zoic

---

