# 104-10217-10181

## Page 1

104-10217-10181

• REPORT COVER SHEET

REPL

NO.

UFG- 6745

SECRET

DATE OF REPORT

FRON

JMWAVE

REPORTING OVICKY WIT

Henry Jo

REPOrTe OFFICER

Margaret Re NANKALLUECT

23 February 1965

RD. NO.

BACKGROUNO DATA AND COMMINTE

TYPIC

Source: AMFIX-1 in ANOT DD-1266, dated 5 February 1965.

AMFIX-1 recently returned to Miami after having been in the

Dominican Republic from

2 December

to 28 January where be had

contact with the SENE,

the MRR and JURE.

on 7 February 1965 that,

according to Osiel GONZALEZ, former

SFNE captain, that after the capture of GUTIERREZ, two NiG

aircraft from Cuba flew over the SFNE training bases®

the Dominican Air Force saw the MiGS,

they sent up two jets

which opened fire on the Cuban planes.

1 sportedly

then returned to Cuba.

GONZALEZ claimed he

obtained

this information from the SFNE office in Miami, but could: not

say just who saw the incident in the Dominican

Republic.

RID: No index®

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

EXTRA-AGENCY

INTRA-AGENCY

4 - Has.

00/C

• JMBARR

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

APPE

77370939

ĐN80

1467

PAEVIOUS

#UAPH3H

I cy. each to Miami reps of:

State, USCG, BORDER PATROL:

LaNs, FBl, and custo

NO. OF ENCLOBUREE

NO, PAGES

NOS RI COPY

PALM

DO!

SECRET

NING SO

201-269349

i can piston tarang i it inta

weiss: + 134490415548 dboor

€M0)

1743

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

& Fairty reliable.

D. Not usually reliable.

Es Net reliable.

(Applied

Fs Reliability cannot be Judged

Upplied to untested de insultslerty

tested sources).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENTI

Is Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. & Probably true. & Possibly true. 'As Doubtful, J: Probably

false

6: Cannot be judged,

CONEIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

coUNTRy Cuba/Doninican Bopublic / Me.ta.

REPORT NO.

REPORT

23-Fobruary 1985

Trim to Cuba on 17 and 20 Decerber by

cloy GUT:BHi% Henoyo, SPIE Leader

JES

2. Recruitment of Men by Emilio Vera Leyva

for Overthrow of f'ranças Duvalier

NCES

DATE OF I7 • * DOCENDOr 1504

PLACE & United States, Mant

DATE ACQ (10 February 1965)

UFG 6745

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL DE CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCEs A member of a group of Cuban émigrés trained in the techniques

of information collection. The group has provided useful reporta

Since 1961.

1.

Kloy Cutlorrez Sonoyo, empered military leader of the Segundo

Frente Nacional del Escambray (SINE, Second National Front of the

Sacanbray, is said to have made his firat trip to Cuba on 17

3.

3.

4.

Dominican Repubtle, go about.30, Pecember,

deit for cuband,

Gutierrez had oughanity planned to make the trip

on a boat ood by the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE,

Students' Revolutionary Diroctorate), but it was not posalble

became the the coat was ot of comin

Canadian-built Dominican navy corvettes and jet aircraft painted

white with a red stripe on the underside of the wings were said

to have encorted Gutierrez to a point about 20 miles off the

Cuban coast.

Enillo Vera Le,va, & Cuban exile residing in Puerto Plata in the

Dominican Republic, knew of Gutierrez' plans and, although he

was not associated with his, offered Gutierrez his contacts in the

Oriente Province. Vera la said to have contact in

the Dominican Republic with the captain of Coast Guard Cutter No. 106,

Vera 1a allegedly involved with Bladio del Valle Gutierrez is a

Ilita,")in recruiting personnel for an opeiation directed towr

the overthrov of Haitian dictator Françols Duvalier. E

1o

Field Comment:

When Gutierrez appeared on Cuban radio and

television on 2 February,

he alleged

"that he had entered

Cuba on 28 December and was captured on 23 January 1965, two

days before his capture was announced by the Cuban Government.

2. He a faquate Crement

Far: SE

Berlenest Aun

norading and

feclassifiention

DISTRIBUTION

fear tina

3-210 los 1000)

Duratal,

PAP

269349

20/-

---

