# 104-10186-10049

## Page 1

104-10186-10049

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ony

RMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

Cuba Demirican Regeb'se

Rifael Franusce TAl'ERAS Rosario

REPORT NO. CS CI 316/01174-65

DATE DISTR. 16 March 1965

NO. PAGES: 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE:

1964

Washington, D. C.

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THUS 15 UNEVALUATED TNPOENATISOS

SOUNCE ORADIMOS ARE DENINITIVE

APPRAISAL ON: CONTENT IS VENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS clicer who served with the Cuban Lipligerer Service

Un'il Apra! 1964.

Headquarers Commert:

Tor folicwing report is one of a series containing. perso-ally

a formatic • provided by the source ard incledes supplemental.

irformation frcm the records of this Agency.

I: 1s requested that the addressers take no action on any . the

I'cividils mentional ir the persorally reports withou! first

cheddarg with this Agenes.

1. Spurse idertified a phoograph of Rafael Frunasri TAVERAS

Rosario is being a Domzach: ard a member of ir pro-cisio

Aga prion Polisea Calerce de JLrio (APCJ).

As a member of the APCJ, TAVERAS was originally sert

In Cuba in secure a scholarship in the Union of Soviet Sealist

Ropublis (USSR). (Howerer, source judges that when this

shelorship cad rot maerialize, TAVERAS was pet irin to guerrilla

wa: fure training program irstead.) Source belicis thai TAVERAS

was still in Cuba at the time he left.

3

2

Herdqua-ters Commer:

1. Rafael Frar isco (FI:") TAVERAS Rosario, who was berr in

about 1938, was eirited secretary of publicity and propagard en

ihe APCJ Central Executive Committee in December 1.962.

held tha: title when he let! the Dominican Republic or 13 September

1963 for Mexico On a Spanish ship, en route to the Serie:

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

T AID

BR

1

ST.STE

I DIA

¡Nato: Field distribution Indicated by "#*)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REpORT

THE NOT LEI

DIR - 18622

d: Prcjfci(AMMUQ/1)

TH C RR OS

4 14H. 2 DR

R CLICG 1H21 LASH

CERVE

SLINH. PO A

RIL 15

INTESDONT

CSCI-316/01174-B3

LIAISON

TOWN C PID, WE ! (1), C14, RID 1, WH 461!

---

