# 104-10219-10138

## Page 1

104-10219-10138

KDNT

115.300

Chlot of station, Sallsbury

Ze June 1961

B'B5-0MT

286WC8 - JOINTieW WiLA Mies Mary L. TIMAN

SO 70 REGANEO

CUT CAN DISITI

ITI

306

DIB 40907, 25 May 1961

SULY U276, 31 May 1961

c.

SUBT OúB1, 12 June 1461

The arrached monorandom provided informellos guttered by

caring too conversations wits kins Mary lo FIaK on 18 end

19 June 1961 a8 the LItual Mission ao.5 Lllargue, #gassiano.

Sabjoer uns cooporatino end appearod to be forthright 1a geolots

Informatios on her very linto acquaisleaco nice Ices A of hol. A.

send Impressed that una and been sorghe ent in the nodle of neuitaron bo

¡bousand milos fron hora, and aiidis cooseased, lough dos maGal!'"?:

Subject suld she lad flost hoard of Ions d's flighe In a lesso

her pollor leat August.

Her sothet had also mollien that she hug tes

apreonehod officially la tashlagton da cossection

Subjeet's inmateg

she had written her potter

with all the detaile

coold remabor but did not toon uberbar thay

I 1u Inct boen passed aisers

Sobjust aald

been ber bose.

Sho way loto there in

Jestingtes, D. C. haS airitis

is school tbets,

St. Aalborg's.

then altarded Cathsile

bor epursed la le nuralng school 1a

GEE korked

al the Proridence Hospitel

Volleadug ter predastlees

05t11 JaSe 1958 M49E 120

saarer job as a norso at Cary

Startleg in Scrober 1959, she worker

et Children's

bospital lo

328g be

About tho end of 1959 she declood diri would

end bogan taking evening coutsos si

Homa Volcutears

Asesciatito: 10-13:30

BouldeBte, lEts Street, N. I.

sarlag the past gear.)

to vealce and chee on tho Alria

so foirs, dorandique,

Mysseland.

bor companion on the srip sad prosent dousedale is sootier gasea..

Catholle

nurso cared Louise COFFAAN fros Custerlasd, brylends

neror travelled pataide the U.S. urariously with sia

elet! ta Canade.

She no plans lo reenda si the miasion in Ayasedead datal

1459.

John D.

Gaelcomror

Soport on Mies Plans'e knonlodge

•1 Idas Ao (9 80pt90)

320108001869

• • Ale Mula moell, no states.

• ч.

instin

start +518355668.11

1400489940

---

## Page 2

it.

RYBAT

SECRET

Page 1

• infoodys 0. 180 11.0.33

Subjece: diss sary L. Filal's dequalntance ait! lien d uf Did isE

Ull Ideos ¡eyed lo sane kef.)

do

Sabject stole the following conceming her acqualntance with Idea A:

"I have beeLasked lg

1o recount any contact l have

har with Licen a.

Tan perfectly killing do do this, my only

regrel being that my sole contact with the san is rayse in all

respects.

"As I recall, in the fall of 145%, I was irvited by Lion ! to allend

a small infurnal party.

aBC was called

she home of Liden W an the dou block of laylor

Tor at my dog by ident acres LeT Me meados

S8.. Ai. E.

and another person, a youth of abode ¿u jears those

cape d don"?

remember, went 10 lbe party wilh us.

tie trageled in Licen D'sy car.

"ërrouse lo Lisen A' done, we were Invulood in a minor aceldent ou

¿l St..

1c. betwee: South Dakota and in ain loland Avesses.

was lajured,

and after she relalla of the arcadent were straightened

out.

proceeded to Liden A'i/ sons, near Laurel, idargiand.

"Inside the aforementioned people, ansther ques!, a pen:lemas, was

al the party: homever, I do not recall his name. I boldero there

were no other guests.

During the course of tbe evening, drinks were served, geseral con

versation as made = I don"t recall any porticular lopics discussed

me danced to records, looked al slides, and listened lo the piano and

violin, played by meaters of the group.

"After the usual courtesies of thanking the host for an cajoyable

evaning ans expressing the hope of secing him again sozetine. the

guests departed.

Ne errived home without lurther incidest.

*I mas contacted at least ouce, and perhaps twice, after lass party

for anolker such gatherigo, but l vas not able lo Join die group agalo.

1 believe

18 was Liden d/.ee extended the later invitation.

1 think

the last contact that was arde ras not later than January 1960,

"I should like to state again that I regret not beimg able to recall

with more certainty the incidents relating to this meting.

However,

8l the time, it was an incidental social event and of conse I had

no idea of the Imporsance this mering would have in the faturo."

[Signed

Mary L. Finas

SCIET

RYBAT

---

## Page 3

1d-0000

RYBAT

SECHET

Page :

* Subject says thal this was the only occosion lat she was with

If Idea A vere al gatbersags at Iden U's at lle sane tiao she

mas, she coes not recal it.

Sie did not allend a wrestling mater at the

INcA mirA lden A and lo the best ol her knowledge has never Leen t0 a

Testling Batel.

3. Sabjeet met ¿sea B Phrengh her nelce who mas in Subjoct's elass at

marsing school al Cartolle University.

She aubsequently saw lden & fros &ine

to sive bat exhlbited sirtaully so knowledge of lden C: she did nol know bla

last nabe, did nut recranize'll muen l8 mas mentioned and did not kuow wbat

isrsber, she did not lle him together da her thinking

with dden D mere she didimon.

4. Subleet does not recall the none of IdenD"g friend who was the

fifen Incavidual who went in their ear to the gathering at lden A'o: nor

does she knou what his sle mas to loos D.

To the best of Subject's recollection, the group of five she

traralled with were al iren d'a foga about 9p.m. until about midnight.

As she wolles, they Carced, watched slides (of the U.S. dest) and listenee

to lso plaso and violia = Idon A playing the formor and Iion D tho latter.

She does cos recall aoy specifie coversation por any coemento sade by

Sie tas no recilleetions so lapressanas regarding hie, his

big motivatloos, his dicology, his conduce.

In face, love A made such a

Blight inpression on ter thai she did not recognize his pleture in the elipping

formerded by her nother and baroly rocollected the erenlog in questioo.

Although she i; uncertain whether it was Iden A or Iden C who sub

sequently inulled her 8o another gathering, she belleves shar Iden A did so

on at l'ast one occasica.

(Sbe said this varies with her carller recollection,

which she more in her lettor to her sother, that it wan Idea C who had done

Sabjeet belieres there were

only seven people a¿ Iden A's.

remembers virtually no tetalla conceraing the seventh person, the mas tho

did sor come with hor sirap. She estimates that he wea about thirty and

from comments made during the slides that he and lden A And been acquainted

wbes both mere out fest.

dozittin

• RYBAT

SECRET

IVAN

"Tress a

---

