# 104-10061-10320

## Page 1

T104-10061-10320

rece

10- 1H

78

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/O

FROM

SUBJECT

RIFLRENCES

ll. Clark Schor

Chief, Plans and Review Group

Contral Cover Staff

Ilouse Solect Committee on Assassinations

(JISCA) Request

: A. Memo for SA/1D/0 fr C/CCS/PRG, duA

25 Jan 78, Same Subject

B. Memo for SA/DO/O fr OLC (OLC 79-0070/1).

dtd 12 Jan 78, Sane Subject

C. Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Pirect.,

of HSCA, dte! 6 Jan. 78

1.

This nemorandum supplements Reference A and provide:

the additional information per paragraph o. therein, lu re-

sponse to the request in Reference ?.

2.

entities cited in cortain numbered items of Refcrence

colores citod in

CCS files contain information on individuals and

"as

Iten 5 - George Delohrenschildt -- five docu-

ments comprising four contact reports with a comner-

cial asset who was in touch with Suhject regardi.rn

activity in Haiti, and one memorandum i-

tailing

the results of a trace request on Sulject.

The dites of

the documents range from 25 April tr

21 Nay 1963.

b.

Itom

- Leo Cherne -- 21 documents (six-1954:

one-1955; two-1957; two-1953: one-1960; four-1902; an:

one each-1965, 1967. 1968, 1976, 1977)

Additionally, COS maintains

a file on the Research Institute of America, of shich

Leo Cheme was Executive Director, comprising ar roxi-

mately 100

documents covering the period 1949 to 1964:

Mr. Cherne's name appears throughout this file.

PETUND FORIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

CL, BY

---

## Page 2

14-00000

J. T

C.

Item 17 - William Harvey - Approximately 50

documents, virtually all of which concern the estab-

and use of cover for Subject

during his carter neen and Agency cover stars topeoyco

from 1947 to 1967.

d. . Item 27

(1) Intornational Rescue Conmittee --

12 documents (1962 to 1976) addressing Agency

non-use of IRC, and FOIA requests.

(2) Alexander Rorke -- No record in

ces.

e. Item 29

(1) Richard Hells -- Ayproximately 25

documents (1956 to 1974) concerned primarily

with TDY travel orders, cover documentation,

and clearance verifications.

(2)

James Angleton -- Approximately 25

documents (1950 to 1975) concerned prinarily

with ThY travel orders, cover documentation,

and retirement processing for subject who

was a Staff Employee of the Agency from 1947

to 1974.

Raymond Rocca

-- Approximatoly 25

documents (1964 to 1975) concerned primarily

with cover matters pertaining to Subject who

was a Staff Employee.

Item 30 - No record in Cos of correspondence

or other communications on the matters identified in-

volving Messrs. lelms, Angleton, and Rocca.

I. Itein 36

(1) Southern Research Corporation --

No record in CCS.

(2) Wackenhut Corporation -- 100 to 150

documents covering the perios1963 to 1977

and concerning primarily

Wackonhurt officials.

H. Clark Schor

- 2-

ygP

---

