# 104-10072-10323

## Page 1

104-10072-10323

DISPATCH

Chiof,: VH

CLASSIFICATICN

SECRET

FROCELANO

NC1:021

MOZAD PON ELEN

EFADQLAITUES CLEA

Chief of Station, JBWAVE 1

Operational/TYPIC/WHSPAWN/AMOT

Directorship, Finances and Activities of the Cuban Exile Newspaper

PAD . REFERENCES

Mundo Americano, Published in New York

The following information on the Cuban estle news-

paper Mundo Americano

published in New York, was submitted

by the ANOis In Eb-4463 of 16 November 1965.

The information

was obtained during October and November by AlOT source

works in the officos of the lundo AmerIcano (Cular. (ail. N...2f: f-)

Investors

One of the principal investors in the lundo Americano

18 JOSeYLOPEZ Vilaboy (201-215815), who was President of the

Companta Cubana de Aviacion (Cubana Airlines and owner of the

newspaper Manana In Cuba Tron 1952 to 1958 LOPEZ was a

henchman of ex-Cuban President Fulgencio BATISTA Zaldivar.

LOPEZ contributed the sum of $40,000, however, it 1a believed

are not LOPIZ" own money since it is rumored

that he is not in a good financial position at present.

3. {Hanuor GARCIA dal

Justo (201 353893L and a group 01

persons trusted by Rolando TASFERRER ROjas (201-042669) and

Those In R.PEREZ Carril (201-294538) contributed $75, 000 A la Cuba polis

Those three

persons currently have financial control of the

4.

During september 1965, the newspaper suffered a

financial crisle and one of the

persons who put up money. &t

HDFILMED

Attachnents:

U4L211500

•1.

Photo of "Jinny" HY

Copy of AP cable IW

13.

Mundo Americano version of cable HW

4.

Editorint praising JOHNSON 'g action HW

5.

Articles by Rolando HASFERRER Rojas

attacking CIA HW

6.

Mundo Americano attack on SOMOZA fanily HW

19-

DATE TYPED

Distribution:

CS Cury

"ist

DATE DEPPATCHID

DEC 14 1965

La - WH/C w/atta AS (1 _cy)

3 Dec 1965

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH STAROL AND NUMDEN

UFGA -24005

HEADQUANTERS FIRE PUKEES

SECRET

0-19-6-9514

18.648

CARD REPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 2

14.0,0000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

• CLASBIPICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH MADE ANO MUSE I

UFGA -24005

that time was an American citizen

named "Jimmy", who controls

the "bolita" game in

Brooklyn, New York.

A photograph of

"Jimny" is forwarded as Attachment No. I. As this photograph

was romovid from the private files of the newspaper and

could be traced through it, it is requested that it be given

careful handling in order

not to compromise source.

relicolerate

operations:

General Manager: Ceferino R. PEREZ Carril.. (on 19

ber 1965 replaced/Du. Francisco CASADO

Remedios, aka "Frank"

, who was que of

I's LOPEZ Vilaboy's trusted men) Spicus.

Editors:

Jose LOPEZ Vulaboy Directory on regiti

Manuel GARCIA del Busto (Vice-President)

Exocutive Editor: Rolando MASFÉRRER Rojas

Assistant Editor: Jose I. APEREZ (One Of LOPEZ VLlaboy's

trusted men. a Puerto Bican.

been working for the newspaper since

1

19 September 1965.

Advertising Diroctor: Frank ALALDONADO (Homosexual).

Internation Polly: Aman &

(has stated

he worked for KUBARK in Venezuela and

Peru.

Jesus GONZALEZ Scarpetta'

Luis E. XPOU Enriquez

Local Policy:

Juan Angel BRAS

Chief el Starle Enriquo PIzZI do Porras (one er a

BATISTA's most trusted mon)

Carlos Rene ACABRERA Vazquez!

Social Nows:.

Sports:

Shop (Pross) :

Elinat:

Wilfredo X*MORAN Beole

Ricardo G AMENOCAL Beole

Carlos KDIAZ-VERSON Rodriguez"

Pedro YANEZ (member of the New York

Exocutivo of the MIRR, connected with

.tho.purchase of_axmament fox the MIRR)

Circulation:

= Fucundo POLAR Soler (ona of moat.

trusted mon-of Busebto MurAL Barnio-•

Londer in the Cuban Labor Confedera

Photography:

MarIo TZAYAS

fre. Vote

Rodolfo UNADAL Tarafa

Blost of

the othor persons

on the payroll are linotypists

and typesettors who draw

prescribed by the Union.

Sourco estimates that there are 30 employees in addition to :

the Directors.

6.

Officeg of Mundo Americano:

0.

Staff and Management:

701 7th Avo, at 47th St.

Now York, N.Y.

Phone:

757-8515

EPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTNUATION OF

DISPATCH.

SECRET

UFGA -24005

b. Printing Press:

76 Gerry St.

Brooklyn, N.Y.

Phones:

-EV 7-4026

EV 7-4025

Circulation and Operational Costs of the Newspaper

The newspaper has a dally circulation of 23,000 to

25,000.

There are plans*

to increase circulation to

• 40,000.

8..

Each Issue of the newspaper costs between $2,500 and

$3, 000.

The printing press is rented for $2,200 weekly.

rental

fee includes the cost of ink, paper and lead for

linotypes.

Until September 1965, Mundo Americano banked with

the Bankers Trust Company

and the newspaper & checks were

signed by Ceferiho R. PEREZ Carril and Frank CASTRO. During

he financial crisis in September 1965,

Mundo Americano

issued a check in payment of wares to the order of Amado

GARCIA drawn against the Bankers Trust Co.

returned to GARCIA for insufficient funds.

Since early

October 1965, payroll checks have been drawn against the

164 East 116 St., New York, N.Y.

These checks

sre signed by Ceferino R. PEREZ and Jose LOPEZ Vilaboy.

Ideology and Control of the Newspaper

10. Mundo Americano is completely under the control of

BATISTA oriented groups and its articles and editorials fol-

low the line dictated by these groups.

The newspaper attacks

the U.S. Government, and especially the ClA, dally.

Forwarded,

as Attachnent. No. &, 18 a copy of an AP cable, dated 25 October

1965, reporting a statement by the White House Press Chief

and J. Edgar Hoover that the news published in the New York

Herald Tribune stating that the President had authorized the

FBI to gather intelligence abroad is not true.

The Mundo

Americano published a distorted version of the cable (see

Attachment No. 3) and also an editorial praising President

Johnson's action against CIA (see Attachment No. 4) .

11. Rolando MASFERRER Rojas writes a column in the

Mundo Americano using the pen name

"Policarpo Pineda"

which he frequently attacks CIA.

Copies of MASFERRER's

in

column are attached as Attachment No. 5.

Blackma 11

12. On 26 October 1965, Mundo Americano published an

article

entitlod "Opposition

to the Dynasty of the Somozas"

(800 Attachment No. 6).' On 2 Novembor 1965, another article

appoared on the front page of Mundo Americano reporting that

General SOMOZA was gravely 111 In a Baltimore, Maryland,

hospital.

According to conversations overheard by source,

after the appearance of these articles, the directors of the

newspaper, including Rolando MASFERRER, were summoned to the

Nicdraguan Embassy in Waghington, D.C.

At the meeting the

Ambassador.

from Nicarague pointed out that the news appearing

In tho paper was false.

An argument between the Ambassador

and MASFERRER ensued and MASFERRER wag thrown out of the moet

1ng.

Aftor that, a second meeting took place between the

Nicaragudn Ambassador and the directors of the newspaper and

since the second meeting, the newspaper has not attacked the

BOMOZAS.

The directore of Mundo Anericano have insinuated

that there has been Some financial arrangement.

---

## Page 4

14-0,0000 -

CONTINUATION-OF

DISPATCH &

CLAGAMICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMOOL AND KUMEGN

JEGA -2400g

Inside Struggles

13. • When Mundo Americano was first published, Jose LOPEZ

Vilaboy had financial control of the newspaper.

Currently,

however, control is in the hands of Rolando MASFERRER Rojas

and Ceferino R. PEREL Carr14

In Cuba, PEREZ Carril campaigned

politically

for BATTSTA. and was a Cuban Army Captain durin

the BATISTA Regime.

has

14.

Since the newspaper was first published, it's policy

been controlled by the group having financial

Although NASFERRER's and LOPEZ Vilaboy'e groups both follow

the BATISTA line, LOPEZ is in favor of a soft line and MASFERRER •

18 In favor of a

hard line,

attacking groups and persong with

which he does not agree.

Since MASFERRER and PEREZ have,

it has constantly attacked

obtained control of the newspape. 'LOPEZ le not in favor of

the U.s._ Government and the CIA.

attacking the U.S. Government, the CIA or the Spanish Govern-

ment.

MASFERRER, however, states that LOPEZ can do nothing

about it because

he no longer controls the newspaper financially.

As a result of the recent shift in

power, two of LOpEZ' men,

Francisco CASADO Remedios and Jose M. PEREZ,

were removed

from their positions in Mundo Americano on 19 September 1965.

' 15.

The following are Station file traces on persons

mentioned in thie report:

Amado GARCIA Torres: QRPLUTO candidate for

• labor

training seminar.

Dropped because of his youth

and inexperience (UFGA-17332, 26 August 1964).

U. Frank MALDONADO: Probably identical with

Fronciaco MALDONADO Iglesias.

WII CE cards indicate that

MALDONADO arrived in Guatemala from the Dominican Repub-

11e in August 1960 as an agent of TRUJILLO, and contacted

Cuban oxtles to try to set up the Movimiento Intogracion

Nacdonal (MIN), an anti-Castro organization.

who was travelling without documents, was deported from

Guatonala to Miami. DBA-19283 of 14 August 1962 roported

sales-;

an unpald informant of the

SIM (MIlItary Intelligonce Service).

Juan Anzel BRAS: Subjoct may

be identical with

JUan A. BRAS who appeare on WH CE cards as residing

223 7ei A No Tok 19,Y Yal Maten Lane, Neo Bota

working at Falcon Bron. Co.,

according to information of 10 October 1960.

According

to the card, BRAS, & U.g. citizen, is considered by

• top lovol consultant to the FRD

someone worth cul

tivating by the. Agency.

Ile has boen active in Cuban

uffalls since 1932

was director of public relations

and radio for the 26 of July Movement in New York,

aS

well as adviger to Harold Janis, Director of Spocial

Events Volce of America from 1942 to 1948.

d. Enrique PIZZI de Porras 18 probably identical

with

lonrique PIZZI de Porons of 1139 Ridgewood Road,

West Palm Beach, who is in correspondence with former

President BATISTA who is now residing in Madelra.

(OPL-719, 13 November 1959.)

0.

Carlos Reno CABRERA Vazquez: Formor owner

and diroctor In Cuba of Radio Aeropuerto and Radio

Voz

how wrograms now intervened. Now in New York working

of. the wis 00 9-04 99

CARMANCERTI

ARn

REPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 5

14.000.00.

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DUSPATCH SYNOLY AND MUNGLA

UFGA -24005

Report of 8 August 1962).

According to a card dated

15 December 1962, Subject was inducted into the U.s.

Army.

born 21 February

1914 in Haylo, DEAL member of the FRo in Miant Cun-

dated card).

Pedro YANEZ: Subject, a journalist affiliated

with Bohemia Libre, met with members of Libertarios

in New York on 28 May 1965 (UFG-7389, 20 July 1965).

B. Facundo POMAR Soler: WAVE files contain the

following traces on Subject, in addition to & WH/CE

card which contains references to Subject's activities

in Cuba as an official of the National Federation of

Transport Workers and the Syndiate of Omnibus Aliados.

Probable participant in the formation of

a provisional Cuban Government in exile or a pro-

visional council which will

seek recognition of

the U.S. and Latin American countries.

(DBF-80328,

22 June 1961.)

(2) On a list of useable Cuban labor leaders

of union prestige. Leader of Transport; a real

stronghold in his sector; has never been & poli

tician or held public office. (Undated memorandum,

AMICE Personnel.)

(3)

CTC leader; excluded from FORDC and un-

acceptable. (WAVE-5313, 6 April 1961.)

(4) UFG-2872, 21 May 63 contains information

regarding Subject's attempts to unify the Cuban

exile community.

(5) Cuban labor transport leader in exile

and a favofite disciple of Eusebio MUJAL. Has

lent himself to all MUJAL'S tricks.

no per-

sonal criteria. (ANDENIM-I report, 29 July 1962.)

(6) Will be a head of & group now being

formed called

the Obrero Anti Comunista Inter-

nacional

(The International Anti-Communist Laborer) •

(UFK-345, 6 January 1964.)

Mario ZAYAS:

Possibly identical with Mario

ZAYAS Monzon,

(CK-00246, 20 Au 2 6 196733

Cuban press photographer.

WAVE f1log contaln no traces identifiable with

Franctsco CASADO Remedios, Armando CRUz Cobo,

Jesus GONZALEZ

Wilfredo MORAN Beole,

Philip G. ELMARD

---

