# 104-10175-10154

## Page 1

104-10175-10154

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CASSICA'CA

SECRE T

WAITIS FOR NOENAE

1/Q.

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

REQUEST

L/LIHUFF/I Performance Report

ACTION REQUIRED - PEFERENCEI

CHL T QUALIND DESI

CAN LOGE NDEKIS

Subject has been a contact of the Mexico City Station since

although it was not until I November, 1962 Prat he was placed

pay status.

U.s. dollars 5300.00 per month to ese as an informant on ine

He is presently being paid a salary of

24 activities of

From time to

time Subject iS also used as a means of Financing student action

harassment operations.

Subject is handled exclusively by the chief of Station,

Mexico, using social acquaintance as cover.

In view of Subject's overt positionas

a wide-spread organization

it is unlikely that he

couto be available to transfer to another

area unless suitable overt employment were also available to him

in commercial circles.

the period

Subject has been in contact with the

Mexico Station,

he has performed his WOFACT assigments in a most

effective manner.

group to which Subject has provided

guidance and

direction has effectively carried our a number of

successful harassment activities in behalf of the Mexico Station.

This agent would be a worthuhile asset to any Station where contact

with right-wing conservative groups

be used as a support asset for tunding or cur-out activities.

Accord risestin

ard C. CURTY

istribution

DR5,5-134-105/2

PATCH SYMBOL AND MEN

HMMA - 307 35

CLASSICA TIGR

SECRET

EaTE

эGібзіита)!

I Decenber 1966

COS PLE AGATHE

201-30999 ) 23

5/Rs

---

