# 104-10300-10096

## Page 1

1104-10300-10096]

TO

FROM .:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1D

400-1ES

320231

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Menorandum

Chiet, Personnel Security Division

Special Assistant, Chief/PSD

DATE: 1 June 196

SUBTECT:

In compliance with your request, the Subject wes

Interviewed on 27 May 1964 relative to the information

she reported to Mr. John R. Phersony Security Officer/

DDST, which is Indicated as Tab A.

2. Upon interview, the Subject repeated substentially

the some inforation that is reported in Mi. Pherson's

merorendum.

Additional Information indicates that Subject

definitely identified the telephone caller from the Prince

George County Naryland ballot as Mrs. Kathryn N. Sherwood.

Hirs. Sherwood's name epycared as 33-E on the ballot.

'3.

During the telephone conversation Subject stated

that she came under the definite impression that Mrs. Sherood

resides in the oxon Hill, Narylend area due to the fact she

mentioned thai some road

1 a can that us

construction"as being done which has

Locardose in the Oxon Hill area recently.

4. Subject stated that she did not desire to place

pressure on irs. sherwood for further intortation concerning

the rime end winereabouts of the "ex-CIA Courier" who told Mrs.

Sherood that President Kernedy would be assassinated end the

President's

assessin would also be assassinated.

Subject ad

vised that crervood stated that the "ex-CIA Courier" lived in

Vest Virginia (city or town not given) where there vas a

cafeteria.

Sherood advised the Subject that the food did

not agree with the "ex-CIA Courier" and she (Sherwood) took

hin into town for meals.

Sherwood further indicated that the

"Courier" told her that he "had too much krowledge" indicating

that the latter was the reason he left the Agency. Sherwood

stated tiat: the "or-Courier" told her a lot of things relative

to peorie in high places in the Government which was quite

shocking and the inforration vorried her (Sherrood, very much.

Document Number

1279-466A

for FOlA Review on

FEB 1977

15

---

## Page 2

13-00000

---.

....=

5.

Subject advised that during her voting experience

she had made it a point to vote for the man and not the

party.

Elaborating, Subject stated that she liked

Roosevelt and voted for Eisenhower. Subject stated that

she edvised Sherwood during the telephone conversation that

she liked President Kennedy's stand in Cuba vhereupon

Sherwood said "too bad he vas sclling us down the river".

Sherood did not elaborate on the latter statement accord

ing to the subject. Subject stated that the telepione

conversation lasted about one lilf hour end upon discon-

husband.

ristance of the conversation the (sate maris a her

sensitive work vith the Air Force and immediately advised

subject to report the telephone conversation to proper

officials of the Agency. C

stated trat she could not

give further clues concerning the identity of the "ex-CIA

Courier" or the location in lest Virginia voere Sherticod

associated with the "ex-CIA Courier".

I requested the Subject to keep me advised of any

additional calls, information or contact with Sherwood.

7. I reconmend that the attached information be

passed to Mr. Cregar by the DC/PSD.

Pies up. e

F

Leland E. Bunn,

LEB 130)

288T

---

