# 104-10331-10009

## Page 1

1104-10331-10009

TOP SECRET

→ C/HRG

(FYI)

19 May 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR. ' DO/ IRO

FROM:

SUBJECT:!

Edgar 1. McHenry

" Chief, Classification Review Branch;-IP&CRU

Middleton Mandatory Review Request (E92-0185)

1. This Lyndon Johnson Library request consists of

twenty-two documents from

a Johnson Library file identified as

"NSF, Intelligence File, 'Oswald, Lee Harvey,' Box 9."

requester, Mr. Harry J. Middleton, is Director of the Johnson

Library.

The same material is also being piggybacked to

another requester, Mr. August Russo, in our case E92-0199.

We have made a preliminary assessment of these

documents with regard to the fact that similar documents

relating to the JFK assassination are being reviewed by the

newly restructured Historical Review Group which is under a

mandate by the DCI to assume a bias toward declassification.

We note the following intelligence concerns which are

evident in the Oswald material now presented

for review:

Intelligence derived from foreign liaison: Found in

Document Nos. 6, 8, 9, 20, 25, 28, and 32a.

Intelligence derived from covert sources: Found in

Document Nos. 11, 13, 30, and 33a.

Intelligence derived from signals intercept (or wire tap)

programs: Found in Document Nos. 21a, 23, 24, 29, and 31.

Attachments

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ATTACHMENTS

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TOP SECRET

CIA overseas locations and operations in specific

overseas

locations:

Found in Document Nos. 6, 11, 14,

20, 21a, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 32a, and 33a.

Identification of individuals and privacy considerations:

Found in Document Nos. 6, 8, 11, 21a, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28,

and 30.

Present foreign relations considerations: Found in

Document Nos. 6, 13, 14, 24, 25, and 27.

4.

We would recommend acknowledgment of CIA stations in

Mexico City and London and the existence of l

with Mexico

during the period in question.

concurrence for

releasel should be obtained as necessary.

We believe that most of this material can be released.

Ne have highlighted in yellow those portions we recommend for

denial. Document No. 28 should be withheld in its entirety.

6.

This review was prepared by

IP&CRD.

EORS/CRB/

Edgar I. McHenry

IP&CRD/CRB/CMR 6 May 1992

Distribution

TOP SECRET

Orig - Adses

1 - IP&CRD Chrono

1 - IP&CRD/CRB Chrono

1

- IP&CRD E92-0185 w/atts

1 - John Carver

HRG

1

- IP&CRD Cross ref E92-0199 (Requester Russo) w/atts

1 - CMR

---

