# 104-10167-10366

## Page 1

104-10167-10366

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

-TRANSMITTAI

OF

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

J.

Langdon : J6

LANT

TIW/Intel/Reports

EXT.

5547

DATE

24 August 1962

CONFIRALATION COPIES

TFW 13

INFORMATION COPIES

CAISIPICATION

iy01

JECREU

Mobon rlled la e C

17 58262

BOUTIKE

Rat-DAGLE SE&T.

TDCS DB-3/651,144

CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 5, IH 2, CA 2, CA/PRG, OS, WE: 9

24

August 1962

DISSEAINLATION

TEWR

2

TEK PA-PROP 2

TFH/IAT 2

TEW WLVE

TFW/FI

2

TEW/SI

TEW/CI

2

TEW/PH

1 10S/SSD,Bauman

EVALUATION

tetehko kirbes

STATE

ARAIT

OF

HANOLING INSTRUCTIONS

HH/ PACY

KH/3/CB

WH/3/P

1

HAYY

X BOUTIANE

BASED ON (Fid

PAC:-8333-(74-46636)

NP

(EXIF-1) 02

PACY-8349 (IN-49327)

(EYUULA -1) 02

WAVE-7053 (IN-45475)

NP CABED -

Liaison *

CONTROLLED DISSEN

Fhanfete

Varous

Ryan

DD/P INTERNAS USE ONLY

AUTAGENTICA TINO OFFICTI

CASUIFICATION

SECRET

(Wtheo Filavl daj

CETME

MATINO OFFICEM 1)

WH/3/P/R

c/Tricntel for QCd

I COPYNO.

03

3/8R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TESEGRAM IN! ORMATION REP RT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTILY

CLBA/PANAMA

SUBECT

ATTESPT OF ANTONIO VARONA, OF

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COLNCIL, TO

OBTAIS SUPPORT OF PRESIDENT

CHIARI OF PAVANA IN ACTION TO

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE A

DATE ACQ

APPRAISAL

OVERTHRON CASTRO REGIME

REPORT NO. • DCSDB-3/651,144

DATE DISTA 24 AUGUST 1962

PRECEDENCE BOLTISE

REFELENCES

14-21 AUGUST 1962

PANAMA, (PANAMA CITY (15-21 AUGUST 1962)

I -46636

IN 49327

IN-45475

FIELD REPORT NO

SOURCE

THIS IS LNEYALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

PARA 1:

PAÑARASIAN (F) (CLOSE TO PRESIDENT CHIARI OPARAS 2-3:

PANAMANIAN (C) WITH CONTACTS IN HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL CIRCLES.

1. ON 15 AUGUST 1962 ANTONIO VAROJA LOREDO, DEPUTY CHIEF OF

THE CUBA, REVOLUTIONART COLNCIL (CRC), VISITED PRESIDEST ROBERTO

> CHIARI OF F-VAMA AND REQUESTED CHIARI TO ORGANIZE AND HOST A MEET-

ING OF CENTRAL AMERICAN CHIEFS OF STATE ON THE CEBAN ISSUE WITH

EMPHASIS ON INFILTRATION OF CASTRO AGENTS INTO CENTRAL AMERICA.

VARONA SAID THAT SUCH A METING SHOULD BE HELD AT A VEBY BARIT

DATE AND THAT CHIARI SHOULD INVITE PRESIDENT KELIEDY TO ATTEND.

CHIARI TOLD VARONA THAT THIS WOULD BE A MOST SERIOUS UNDERTAKING

REQUIRING INTENSIVE STUDY AVD THAT HE COULD MAKE NO COMLITHENT

TO VARONA ON THE MATTER. ON 16 AUGUST VARONA LEFT PAVANA FOR

SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, SAYING HE WOULD RETURN TO PANANA ON

CLASSAFICATION - DISSEMIMATION CONTROLI

S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTROLLED DISSEM

STATE

ARMT/ACHI

MAVY

AIR

1OS I SECOLF NSA NIC

USIA i OCI ONE! OCRORE | 00 DIA EBT

INS

REPCISCLAST

TELEGRAM.

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM:

1/BR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• ?K

CLASSIFICATION - DESSEMILADON CONTEOIS

8-E-C-B-E-I/COSTROLLRD DISSEN

TDCSDB-3/651,144

IN-46638

-49327

-15475

LAGE 2

20 AUGUST AND HOPED TO TALK TO PRESIDENT CHIARI AGAIN AT THAT

TIKE.

2. ON 20 AUGUST A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES IN PANAMA CALLED ON

MARCOS ROBLES, PANAKAYIAN MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT AND JUSTICE, AND

REQUESTED ROBLES TO TRY TO PERSTADE PRESIDENT CHIARI TO PERMIT THE

ESTABLISEMENT IN PANAMA OF A TRAINING BASE FOR CUBAN EXILES:

3. ON 21 AUGUST PRESIDENI CHIARI SAID THE VAIN PURPOSE OF

VARONA'S VISIT HAS TO REQUEST CHIARI'S APPROVAL OF A TRAINING

BASE IN PANAMA, AND THAT HE HAD TOLD VARONA HE NOULD TAKE THE

MATTER UNDER CONSIDERATION. BOWZVER, CHIARI DISCISSED IT WITH

NEHBERS OF HIS. GOVERIUENT SUBSEQUENTLY AND IT WAS AGREED THAT

PERKISSION WOULD NOT BE GRANTED FOR THE ESTABLISHYENT OF A

TRAINING SITE:

1. HEADQUARTERS CONMENT: ON 13 AUGUST DR. JOSE MIRO CARDONA,

PRESIDENT OF THE CIC, SAID IS MIANI THAT VARONA HAS LEAVING MIAMI

14 AUGUST ON A TRIP TO PANANA AND COSTA RICA. KIRO SAID THAT THE

PURPOSE OF THE TRIP VAS GENERAL PUBLIC RELATIONS MITE NO

PARTICULAR MÖTIVE IN MIND. HE MENTIONED THAT VARONA WOULD SEE

PRESIDENT CHIARI WHILE HE TAS IN PANAMA TO DISCUSS THE CUBAN

PROBLEM IN GENERAL AND ATTEMPT TO ENLIST "FURTHER SUPPORT FOR

THE CAUSE." HE SAID VARONA JOULD ALSO INQUIRE OF CHIARI THETKEI

THERE WERE ANY NEW DEVELOPHENTS ON A SUGGESTED MEETING OF THE

52-CAR--1/COST ROLLED DISSEN

---

## Page 4

CASSACATON - DESERENADON CONTRES

8-F-C-I-B-T /COSTROLLED DISSEM

TDCSDB-3,/ 651,144

IN-46636

-49327

∞45475

3

РАСШ

FOREIGI MINISTERS OF CENTRAL AMERICA VHICH HAD BEEN DISCUSSED •

WHEN HE (MIRO) HAS IN THE AREA IN JUNE, THERE WERE APPARENTLY

RRASONS FOR VARONA'S TRIP OTHER THAY THE OSTENSIBLE ONES STATED

BY MIRO. THERE ARE REMORS THAT SOLE MEMBERS OF THE CUBAY EXILE

COMMUNITY IN MIAMI ARE KAKISG EFFORTS TO OBTAIN HELP IN

CONVINCING PRESIDENT CHIARI TO FERMIT THE ESTABLISENENT I

PANAMA OF A CUBAN GOTERNMENT-IN-EXILE HEADED BY DE. HIBO CARDONA.

5. FIELD DISSEN: CINCARIB, CINCLANT

END OF MESSAGE

QASMIICATIOA - RESSEMMATION CONTROL

S-E-C-B-E-T/CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

