# 104-10103-10019

## Page 1

104-10103-10019

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

SECRET

Do Not Reproduce

17 May 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Personality Files Reviewed in rel

22 March 1977 Memo - Miami Station Action to Aid

USG Investigation of Murder of John F. Kennedy

In Para 11 of "S

memo of 22 March 1977, he

states that he levied requ

rements. on the following assets.

The

official dossiers have been reviewed for information relating

files were also checked:

01,04

a.

AMWEE-1

201

in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy. The

W/T Chronos were checked from W/T #22 dated 23 Nov 1963 thru W/T.

#99 dated 9 Oct 1964. No message numbers were missing. AMVEE-L'

201 file was also checked and there was no indication of

requirements concerning the assassination.

b.

AMPAN-22 (Jose Ignacio ZARRAGA Diez-Muro) 201-729923:

There is nothing in his file concerning requirements

relating to President Kennedy's assassination, or responses to

such requirements.

c. AMING-3 (Alberto MULLER Quintana) 201-286050:

There is nothing in his file concerning requirements

in relation to the assassination of President Kennedy, or response

to such requirements.

d. AMGABE-1 (Julio Gaspar HUBERT Rico) 201-328948:

There is nothing in HUBERT's dossier with reference

to requirements concerning the assassination of President Kennedy,

or responses toi such requirements. His file does include information

that he was approached 14. Feb 1964 by a group of individuals seeking

S/PV

---

## Page 2

,)

support lor an operation aimed at the assassination of Cuban l.N.

Anbassador Carlos LechuGA. One of the individuals, Armando lARiAS,

was known to he the ringleader of Cuban underworld

types who had

talked about the assassination of leading (Ul: figures during the past

year, but had not attempted to take any action.

e. AMBLEAK-1 (Fernando FERNANDEZ-CAVADA y Paris) 201-302889:

There is nothing in his dossier relating to requirements

concerning the assassination of President Kennedy or response to

such requirements.

03

In para. 13 of

22 March 1977 memo, he relates

information he received frog, AMNEE-I during a personal meeting in

concerning someweeks following President Kernedy's assassination,

and Osmani CIENFUEGOS. Their files were

checked with the following results:

แบก.

06,08

so remin o

4) 2016

TAMNEE-11 described tof 03 -

T talks he held with

the day follgwing President Kennedy's assassination. MELENDEL O6

told AMveE-I what had transpired in the Ministry when the news of

Kennedy's death was received by wireless. / COMMENT: I

0201

file was checked and no information was found around that period,

1963, relating to that conversation/.

b. CIENFUEGOS, Osmani 201-270164:

AMWEE-1 told

(according tol

of 22 March 1977) that

the night of the day President Kenned

vas assassinated (22 Nov 1963) (AMWEE-1 saw Osmani CIENFUEGOS driv

up to the house across the street at about 0100 hours. He stayed

several hours.

The house was occupied by an American expatriate

technician who built audio-surveillance gear for the CUIS. ANNEE-1

opined that CIENFUEGOS visited the American that night because he was

one of the few American sources the Cuban Government could talk to

in Cuba about what was going on in the USA'as a result of Kennedy's

assassination. /COMMENT: following is additional reporting on that

same address which may

large trunks to the house at the address across the street (Nr. 116 Calle

18 Miramar, Havana.) Othe house it that time wits occupied by a

Culean technician.

AMNEl-'schouse guard waltched men working the gh-

out the night in that house and the lollowing moming

saw a military

passenger car drive up with a circular direction finder antenna on the

The driver sat in the car for half an hour working the dial

on the car radio but the antenna remained motionless.

Because of the

overt manner in which the work was carried out, A-, concluded that the

house was being used as an LP target probably to the house of Cuban

Supreme Court Chief Luis M. BUCH who lived around the corner from A-1.

A-1 advised via message 4 Oct 1962 that the Chilean technician

who lived in that house threw out ---- continued on next page

---

## Page 3

3

i corrugated box delivered to his house a few days previously by an

any truck escorted by G-2 cars at three in the morning on 23 Sept.

1-1 was able to get the box later which contained the address

Necked wich the m and ride Masthe fir deals the Agency

manufacture of high fidelity components for home consumption. A

firm official said that if the box found its way to Cuba, it no

doubt was used for the second time after the original contents

were removed./

LAD/JFK Task Force

See Memo for the Recond on the Mir operation.

---

