# 104-10068-10152

## Page 1

1104-70068-10752)

INSTRUCTIONS: Officar insignations should be unded in that'TO" staturn.

Under such comment a line

and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the 'TO'" column.

Each officer should initial (chock mark insulficient)

before further routing.

This Routing and Record Shoet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

NO.

H.IN-y1074

1.

AH/III

DATE

5 November 1953

ROOM

DATE

TO

Hated

FWD'D

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS

NOV

1953

5

5

Terent, Gender, it its

Ogden

5

833

MIOROFINEE

JUN ZU 1953

Smyser

Doc. Micro. GER

6 1893

§ NBY

6.

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

WH/Mailroom

RI/DP

RI/AN

13.

RINU

RI/FI

APR 195O. 51-10

1308

L"

NOV

1 3 1953

seiva

mgm

14ug

SECRET

GS COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

722722

511144678

BSTRACTIX

1 INDEX

DATE *2 DEC 1953

10 81118g

RESTRICTED

UNCLASSIFIED

-8935

---

## Page 2

14-00000

VIA

AIR

(Spectly fir or Sea Pouch)

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO.

f1074

Security Information

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chief of Hission,

Chief, KHD

DATE

NOV 13 1953

FROM

GENERAL

SUBJECT

Daniel DuNo

( SPECINC

MOROF LAS

JUN 2 ú 1963

Doc. Micro: cc2.

40%

I. A check of healquarters! fllos has revealed that

gn 16 larch 1957, the

FBI mede available the following menorandug congerning David Dund TENDLER

130g who may be identical with, the Danted DUNO described in reference

as a contact of ludovico MUcITL.

-The Intomstion originated at the

San Antonio, Taxas, office of the Inmigrute e

Service on 10 March 1951.

David Duno Tendler Lang was.

He departed from the united

dovember. le

at pallas,

T

We Fpland.

s on March 4, 1951.

Un Septamber 30, 1944, one

at tronaville,

Dask

*Tender, aka Dactel' Duno, arrived

Texas vie Fi

rican Airrays encoute frohio

residence, lenave Noti,

F. to Great Northern liotel, New

lork City.

At that bion he

ed

(What he mas & Polish citizen

born November 7, 1912 at

plead. He hold Polish pastport

No. 8116, Lasued

at dex 00,

arch 20, 19ts valid for one

yours He advise.

that his

Is Ana Valoria Mendler, a Polish 5

citizon residing

Vincico

He sta

God that he lost roland in 1936 and went to Milan, Italy,

• Where

utayed um 11 1939. Thereafter, he resided at Nice and

Monto Carlo, Franco, until August, 1941 where he was an opera

singer.

Ho cano to Cuba in 1941, where he reaided until Uctober 22,

1942.

has poslaod in Mexico since that time.

Pand 7 Papton

KING

INDEX

FORM NO. ET on

SECHET

Security afrimation

Хы. 53.

281-44623

8935

---

## Page 3

14-00000

2.

SECRET

Security Infirmation

71074

Page 2

at the tine of his antry in 1944, ho stated that he was

returning truin a concert tour la rio de daneiro, Trinidad, and

tho Canal'done, and ma on:ute to go on a tour in Canada,

also expected to accept a contract with Charlea lazner, an Impresario

1n Non Jork City, for & tour In the United States.

No advised that his parenta bud Lived in Inon, Foland, lut that he

bolloved then to be dead since ha had heard nothing fron then for

•four jears...

The Illos of a predecassor organization contain an Uversoas Howe

Agoncy artiolo, dated 9 Jaruary 1944 at doxico City, which statas

that Dantol DUJO, & Hotropolitan upera singer who was then singing.

nith the laxican opera, was threatened by finister Naw-iN of the

Pollah Logation in Moxico City nith adthdramal of his folish

passport. if hu took part in & concert aconsored by the hid to

Russia Conaittoo.

DUNO at that time was under contract for concert

tours In several Latio Anerican countrios.

ASS.

-1221

5 Movamber 1953

Distributions

1 = 7H/ 111/ chrono

1 - UH/Mailroom

VH/III/

DFB 8200

of 16 Mar 51

RI File: 200-8-5-856

New York - SI-PTS-6

Folder #27

5 so 53

INDEX

SEBRET

security Into mation

701-44623

---

