# 104-10213-10019

## Page 1

104-10213-10019)

IEHORUIDISI FOR

SUBJECT

POSERDICE

Doputy Director of Central Intallizenco

S. D. Recitariage

Deputy Inspactor General

Roguest ent Dese County, Florida, Ian

OGG lignorandus of 25. August 1976 (ittached)

.Io The request of the Lado County, Morida, law enforcanent officers,

Imestigating the Roselll murt, presents probless not encoustered in

Birdlar requests fran the SSCI and the FBI. At a neeting yesterday

afternoon it uas agreed that the problens should be sumarized to you,

which this undertakes to dos

2. The attached senorandus resents the first roquast, received

orally fros the Dada County officers. Saction A of paragraph 3 lists

nina 1tars, sella "batever" intomation there say be cats persons

Listed (one in pseudonyn), and the identity of thres others ( uho are

illentified in a classified senorandus): Section B raquasts infornation on

three american citizent. Section ( lists a nuaber of questions for

which Agency replies are atailable; although ve belleve sore cemot

be released.

.

3. OGE has undertaken to provide a uritten pinton that It 1s

propar to provide support to local law enforcerent agencies in ceses

such as this, and that it also is rope tipe guide information os

averican citizens. Beyond this unis phere reacte decisions a

to what can be released in providing that support, invalving as it does

the Identities of persos vith whoa the igency has operatioral relation

ships, and basic questions of sources and sathods, as vell as sinple

classifications. Inatevar is released to Dace Colnty polico 1:111 be

ISECRaT

---

## Page 2

outside tho contruu and agree ents that obein i des case di the soci

und tho FBI, Ine problen 1s not senitized release 1n classtiled fora, bat

effect it in an FOLA exercise®

tailed

La lost of the Inforation 1s 1n files 0i tre DiO end DJA, w1th

materials in OIG. Inforation on the persons lestified in Section 1

of persarash 3 of the raguést is contained in or I 50 tolues di file.

Inders in the 220 file syster. the revieu of the papar would ba a

rajor tast, predictably resulting In a collection d Iriorzation that

coulé not for the large part be released in iserl fam to the polica;

they are seeking investigatire leads, which 11ll requirg nares and

associations. Ine Dade County police cannot ba giren free access to

censilerates

those files, because of the sources-era-nethods see teralrod, a

problen that does not exst to the sane extent vith the FBI ; the Fureau

has b.en given access to office of Security files in connection sith its

Inguiry into the Roseill mcder. Ins consensus of scoss holdinz the filas

150

Is that the security probles 1s significant, end tea valuna of natezial

such, that in corbination this portion of the regrest shoul: not be

approved.

5. Section B of paragraph 3 of the request lists three irerican

eitizens. Motle what we hald is niniral, there is e question of releasa

"under the new rules applying to the igency.

6. On the questions in section 6 ai the paragraria 3 of the request,

the following ansvers can be considered noi, vitt raca-aniaiions o hos

to treat then:

1e

a bho is tse Cuban uho provided ise sagedios" santioned 1a

the Senate Select Corrittee Repori?

No CIA does not have this inforation. ius nuspaper reports

It Is unierstood that this is contains. in testinomy by Roselli

given the sS6, which nay ba able to zovide it.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

11.

SORET.

ho Is 13-14 and what is the name oi ta anti-rastro gro:

oth of which are sentions on sage 89 ob the (35c) Report

(Coment. Artino and his group lera supported by cIl.

Fe:

also vas usod by the l'afia in the Castro operation, -Jali.

in'omation should rat ha relensed)

111. Si: Did Jarray actually pay Poselli 52,700 to defiay the

Cubas expenses as sentioned on page 8l of the Repo-t?

do Tes.

• (Cossent. This can be released).

1va lo lloy was Roselli epproached instead of Giancana or soneons else?

A. Because laber, to whos the agency went for kelp, havenad to

knos Roselli, whose help was sought in establisbing the contect.

(Comment. Inis can be released).

to l. Did: the lgency do a background check on Roestli and Gianeang

and, ii so, could they (the Dade County police) have access to It%

Ao There was no background cheal. In fact, the identity of these

persons was not known for sore tire.

(Consent, This can be reiased),

vi. Gihy was all contact with Rosalli stopped in 1965?

A. Contact vas broken in 1963 because the operation was

terminated and the case officer left the country.

(Coment. .This can be released).

Vilo lo Mould it be possible for then (the Dade County- Folice), to

talk to the ran or ren who served as Chief of Station in Hiani

during 1960 to 1965?

ho this question r'sts with lgancy contand lerals, It is noted!

the present ADDO was ors of tres.

rital Coult they (the Dado County pallce) tall to tas eterebt

Chier of Station in

ho See vii, this is for izency command decision.

(SECRET

-3=

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SER"ET

¿cR.lould it ba possiblo for the e:tectivos to tal". ta Jases po

o'connell, a retared seaior arice of security eaç10739?

It is noted that until noa

there has been no official contination of O'Con:ell's

Xo to Does the CIA have any evidence that the Giben Intelligence

Service say have been Involved in Posalli's drath or that

Cuban agents were in the liari area at the time of his death?

(Cameat. Ints answer should be releasable).

4o Paragraga 4 of tha OGC senorandus reports Senator Gary Hartis

staff assistant, li. Inderfurth, urging ea-ly daclessification of certain

Agoncy nescranda. These reveal the nares de persons whose identity should

be protected. Il they are sanitized for release - by renoval af the

mañes — they become reaningless, so far as the Dado Couty police ise

of theri is corneredo

So those of us who have not to conster the problers prosented by the

request, have sone concern over the propriety of a rember ai the l. So eate

attenptirg to use his influence to not oilly mess for CIA support to a local

lew enforcesent agency, but to inclule classified inforzation to en agancy

not bound to observe the restrictions usually essociated vut such I-fon

-...- bü te SSC,-.

sation. There is sore feeling that unintibited fublication os names of

those imolred in the Castro operatiors, any Rava bion a facio= in sesa

of the deaths that hava occurred to date, and that a fur he-arco of this

practice raises grave questions. In any eveat, in additios to thasa

security questions, it is noted that the current munerous reguests that

ate being received are disrupting other higa miority research baing

dons on related ratter.

.21

---

## Page 5

14-00000

ET

bIt is the basic reaction & those trying to grapple with the

probles that the igency nore appropriately should be cooperating with

with the F.Il and the ssct, organizailons tound to adtere to sertain

harling procedures in dealing with classified infomation, and vinose

interests are sore compatible with the liaitations innossa on CIA is

relation to domestic natters irvolving law enforsesent: It 1s felt

entirely appropriete that s

enator Hert be resinied of the difficulties

that CIA has 1a reviouing' and processing its dosuents for transaittal

outside the Agency to other governant agencies, In classified fors, and

hou this is conunded when an agency such as the Dads County police are

Involved: Having Locare Involvad 1s resewing the probles, and ros

appreciating the nature of the probles, it is proposed that the ensiers.

that can be nade to Section 6 of paragraph 3 o° the roquest le oficired

as noted, ¿Dipanding on the DGC opinion on release of the nares as

Apericars, If paraissible, this infornation also cousd ba provided.

However, the Intent should be to direct the Dede County police to the

FBi for assistancs froz the federal goverment.

• D. Bred inridge

"SECRET

---

