# 104-10074-10090

## Page 1

104-10074-10090

UNCLASSIFIED

INT

'AL

USE oNLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

REFERENCE:

FROM:

Stephen Van Cleave

Telecon Ames/Pangburn,

8 April 1974

EXTENSION

William D. Pangburn, Atlanta RO

Washington Field Office

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

1. Support Branch, "DCD

Attn: OSS (EAmes) •

2.

3.

4.

CONFID. iLAL

SECRET

NO.

DATE

ATL-53-74

9 April 1974

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw @ line across column after each comment.)

Attached is the subject tape

to

une a you softe

23695

fill

8.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10.

11.

12.

13.

15.

670 VE PRONOUS

SECRET

* CONFIDENTIAL

11078

24404

569

E 2 IMPDET CL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

BY

010650

UNCLASSIFIZD

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

OSS-495-74

13 March 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Mr. Stephen Van Cleave

1. On 27 and 28 February calls were received from Bill

Cantrell, OPS/ITG, andE

WH/4/AR, concerning

0-AS 322 03435/4

nformation and 83 Cantrell wanted to be sure FBI had

wanted to advise DCD that there was

a file on subject and DeD should be aware of some of his

background. Evan Ames stopped in to seef

next visit to headquarters and received a fill-in on subject's

background.

2. Subsequently a call was received from Charlotte in

C/WH Division office (x-7350).

It was imperative to determine

the exact date of contact with Van Cleave as C/WH, thru

Legislative Counsel, had advised Congress on 7 January 1974

that the Agency had no contact with Van Cleave. Atlanta and

Miami were contacted and date of first contact was set at 25

one nate or first con

January 1974. Both offices were requested to provide a record

of contact with Van Ceave.

Atlanta had several

hours of tape

(from first and second meeting) which Pangburn would have transcribed

and forwarded for the record.

Called John Peterson later and

advised that WH has asked that tapes also be forwarded to

headquarters for retention.

3.

We.were advised that the Congressional inquiry on

Van Cleave resulted from a remark overheard at a cocktail

party - that Van Cleave had commented that he was working with

CIA under cover.

Van Cleave was scheduled as potential witness

of House Internal Security Committee so House had inquired

as to whether his appearance would embarrass the Agency. As

noted, response on 7 January was that Agency had no contact with

Van Cleave.

LILLIAN GRANT

File HH 25695

cc: Services Branch (Control)

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 01005p

11018

CONFIOENDAL

3/0V

25695

---

