# 104-10185-10098

## Page 1

104-10185-10098

Cuba

"calon" (nicarang

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DaTE DISTI

NO, PAGES

DEPRENCHI

CSCI-310/00717-64

Eeptember 1964

1

RETURN TO CIA,

Background Use Orly

Do Not Reproduce

DATE C

-DATE ACO

SOURCE

1964

Washington; D.C.

Scote mbar 1964

MALATEP NO

A former Cuban Is olficer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1064

Headquarters Commenti

The following report in one of a serles containing personality

information provided by the source and lncludes supplemental

Information from the records al thie Aginey.

I lu requented that the addressees tuke no uction on any of the.

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this ngoney

I Bource does not know the true name of "Chino"

(nickname):, but maid he la a member of the Direccion Genera.

de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DCI).

In 1950 and 1060 he was a policeman working In the Department

of Inveatigation of the Revolutionary National Police at the

15th or 18th Police Staton.

2. Source described "Chino" as being about five feet

nine Inches tall, 145 pounds, looking Indian, with a dark

complexion, black wavy hair, small eyes (pecullar to Chinese

men), & lean face, and having a thin moustache.

Headquartors Comment

1. Due to a lack of information on "China" it 1a not possible to

determine his true.idendty.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

I DeA

AHIT

REP CINCLANT

Put eartherine

MANY

CINCSOT

NEORMATION REROBI

MICSA/FORT NE/5/R.

CIpA

I-LISAMOS

VE MAD8

SA.C

RID/AN

L/WASHI

KALHAVE

1 oce

ORT

1X- 105%

NO PROJECT (AMMIG

CSCI-316 00717-61

GOODENTI

HIALON

WH/SA 7 (4) NE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

OBBOLETE PRIVIOS NCTYSONI

201-(None) 128-10214

3/p4

---

