# 104-10250-10032

## Page 1

104-10250-10032

FILE KEQUES TUR FERSONNEL ACHION

SEE LT NUMBER

2 NAiNE (Loss-Firsi Middle)

105e1

• NATURE OF PERSONNEL RETION

Macise chanti lia

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

¡4E0 just Fleproduce

S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

•ESIST SIT

V TO Y

V TO CF

A. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTM

DAY

YEAR

131 Lit

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

NO. CHARGEABLE

• FLINDS

REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of

Personnel)

CF TO V

CF TO CF

§ CRCANILATIONAI DESIGNATIONS

7235 06.0

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

LI! : SCOTION

WASHINGSOR, D.C.

11 POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

APS OEFICER

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. esc.)

(13)

1392

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

17. SALARY OR RATE

0136.01

13 €

$ 11,217

18. REMARKS

ГH6":

DEV COMP/9997 03

?ÃO NICHE IS REPLACING L5

NRO

IS DOING REASSIGNED.

1

- TIMMI.CE

SECURITY

Date

27 JUL 1956

Securily Approval has heen granted for

the ice coniempired.by this request.

Chiet Personnel s

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

DATE SIGNED

3OЗERT D. CASURAN C/EH/PERS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

CODE

CODE

OFFICE CODING

22. STATION

TZ3. INTEGREE

24. HOQTRS

25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

27.

DATE OF LEI

NUMERIC

ALPHABETIC

CODE

CODE

CODE

но.

DA.

YR.

NO.

DA.

YR.

MO.

DA.

YR.

28.

NIE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL

NO.

DA.

TR.

30.

RETIREMENT DATA

31. SEPARATION

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

33. SECURITY

34. SEX

REFERENCE

CODE

DATA CODE

J-FICA

TYPE

MO.

DA.

YR.

EOD DATA

REQ. NO.

S- HONE

35. VET.

PREFERENCE

36.

SERY.

COMP.

DATE

37. LONG. COMP.

DATE

38

CAREER CATEGORY

39.

FEGLI/ HEALTH INSURANCE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

CODE

D-MONE

MO.

1-578

DA.

YR.

MO.

DA.

YR.

CAR /RESY

CODE

CODE

0-WAIYER

HEALTH INS. CODE

PROV /TEMP

I-- YES

2—10 FT

41.

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

42. LEAVE CAT.

43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

CODE

44

STATE TAX DATA

O- NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

FORM EXECUTED CODE

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED

1ri:0:

NO.

TAX STATE CODE

EXEMP.

1-NO BREAK IN SERVICE

1- YES

2- BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEARS)

2- NO

J-BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS)

B5. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

40. O.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

HOEN: 1152

3-66

USE FREVIOUS EDITION

14)

SECRET

GROUP

EXCLUDED FLOW

AND DECLASSI

ALIGNATES POMMGRADING

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1 RESIGN EFFECTIVE

*(Dast)

_ FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

AUS 3

3 20 PH '6ô

Man TugH

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FOFVIARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Spreet. Ciry. Slate. Zip Code)

INSTRUCTIONS

Items 1 thru ?

and

Items 9 thru 18a)

The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru

18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the current

status of the employee unless specifc items remain unchanged.

lienis - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Our

Temporary

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military

Temporary-Part Time

Item 9 - "Organizational Designations" should shot all levels of organization pertinent to ideptify

ing the location of the position:

FIRST

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)

Office, Major Staff, etc.

Foreign Field or U.S. Field (if pertinent)

Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)

Branch

Section

Unit

Irems 11 and 15 - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be the standard abbreviated title and

corresponding occupational series in Handbook of Official Occupational Titles and Codes

for the duties acrually to be performed by the employee. If different from the ritle anc

series of the position occupied as shown on the most current edition of the Position Con-

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18- Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized so approve for the Career Service to which

the employee belongs. If more chan one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Seru-

ice should approve and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

KOUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate

Career Service official (5).

In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only

will be sent to the Officers) concerned.

SICRET

---

