# 104-10216-10248

## Page 1

104-10216-10248-

=

20 December 1964

NOKMORANDUN FOR THE RECORD

BUBJECT: Meetings with AlLASH] In ParIB,

$ 7 December 1964

ALASH-1 was not by ONTRICE In Paris on 6-7 Dec 1964.

ALASH-I was debriofed on the general situation in Cuba and

the attitudes of Cuban officials toward the regine.

Soparate

ombles on these subjects were sent to Headquarters.

AMLASt-l's reason for travel outside Cuba was to

attend the conferencen and meetings of the International

Inton of Students in Prague and other countries of Bastern

Europe. ALASH-I had been in Eastern Europe since early

November 1964.

AMLASE] 1s travelling on diplomatic passport

D 61-663.

He plans to remain in Europe until early 1965.

• He has not yot set a definite date for his return.

AMLASE!, although unhappy because he was unable to

proceed with his plans in the past year, continues to feel that

his solution to the Cuban problem in the only one feasible

and feels he must continue trying. AMLASH-1 was told and he

fully understood that the U. S. Government cannot and will not

in any way become involved or provide assistance in the task

which he has planned for himself.

AMTASHI appeared to under

stand and appreciate our position and stated 1f he needs belp

he would look elsewhere.

His vorgy was that since this le a

very senaitive and dolleate matter it would mean making more

\ Individuals are if bis plans.

from Spain.

ANASE-I reported that although he had had a few

neures in the past year, nothing serious had developed which

!??

---

## Page 2

14-00000

he presently foole "ill prevent his return. The ineident

with the police in which Chonon intervened was not as serfous

as the report which was received in Headquarters.

AMLASH I's

personal relationahip with Raul Castro 1a again on good terms.

Raul has mentioned to AllASHl that he would like for bin to

come back on active duty in the Army in the Office of the

Burgeon General.

€.

Roguiroments vore levied on AllAS! both for the

time ho 1o in Paris and after his returo to Cuba.

quarters from

on 7 December 1964.

Kestor D. Banches

HE/ SA/ 80/HH

6C. WIL/ BA/ BOB

Mle:

AILASH I 201

Int Operation

"":

SECRET

---

