# 104-10049-10355

## Page 1

110470049-10355]

SECRET

(*-%

Windows

oom: 1014

16 December 1959

MEMGRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT Nesting of

and Fabio FREYES

At the request of Chlef, WED, Mr.

(mow as Thompson) met

Nir. Freyre at the Mayfloner Hotal at 2215 boura on 15 December.

2.

Ne. Freyre: reported on the progress of bin Accion Demeratica

Cristiana organisation. Ha had junt been visited by Doctor Tonna (a toman

lawyer, who loads bia croup in Canaguay.

She Is in Miaal and 10 returning

to Cuba on December 13.. She reported to hin that there vere 1500 men vell

organized in canguey FroutDon.

Five bundred of these wire to be asaigned

to the olty of Cangey no a result of the apeseh by Comndante Bajo in

which be sold that if tromble arone the recognition alon for the 26 of July

membera us to be a blue handkerchier and that ald others on the streets

should be eat down. The other 1000 men bould establiah & beachbead in

Nuevitas on the north coast of, Canaguey which would be ideal because the

port can handle the larget suspe and the stevadores at the port are reported

antagonistle to the present governuent. Doeter Tonnu reported that there

were an additions 3000 men avallable in Canguey who could be useful to the

moranent right away

3.. Docton Pomen reported that Cayo Romno (off the noith coast of

Canguey Province) 1o bains organized as a submarine rendeztons and as a

missilo base, and no one in allored to go there. Phere 1o a sreat depth of

water on 18e north conat

#:: It 1o thought that Castro is going to set a trap and provoke an

uprising by falsifying a beachbead, since he knows that eomething serious

la belng organized arond General Pedrazs.. For that reason extreme caution

Is necessary on the part of Ireyrate sroup,

5. Doctor Pomen reported an mchecked story that thirty. Mice are

being assemblod In the Havana area and that 11Ftoen Croch pllote are lo

Havana, Freyre to sending & up to check this story..

6. Mr, Treyre will obtain 10r Mr. Fatley the photostat of a letter

tron the Cuban Miniater of Defense authorlaing Katherine Dalfe to make

contaets to purchase twenty Lawser lunter planes on the black market s

She

has been promined « letter of credlt for 11 million dollars for te purchase.

Bor. Freyre's eroap till trynto get a photostat of the letter of credit-

Mr. Preyio's group previously had contact with Katherine Taife, but dropped

her: as uniellable.

It Is believed that the letter of credit le draw againat

^ Swies bank socount which la in the nas of Fidel, Rail, and Che Guevara.

SECRET

1000666

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

(

To MI. Frejito has a mn going into Cuba to determine the sena needa

for the army of 1500 and the 3000 reserve reported in Cangury as vell aa

the 400 in Santa Clara,

8. The Preyre frouy In Mland was sald to number 750 under Dias

Ponnyo and Col. Corno, They are planning landtag spots in Caba. In a few

days a plan of the difterent air stripa in katanas, Pinar del Rio and

Habara Will be recolved by H°. Freyre, Feople at these atripa are organised

and are ready to receive armi. A boâget la baing prepared of the arma

necessary for the 750 tratood son 19 Miant and for the people at the airstrips.

Mr, Freyre deseribed the morale of his Minal eroup as higb, but

stressed the need to bring General Pedrone to Miant to net this group and

the need for monetary support. The Canguey group has about 200,000 pesos

which will be converted into dollars and used for arms. Me, Freyre satd

that General, Pedrasa vas ready to come to Mtant,

10°

above Information van given to hin. Be satd that Genora, Pecrasa bad a

United State.

21: Nr. Freyra spoke about his friend Jose Jemelo Rivaro, the Director

ol tha Diario de la Merion bo bas arrived in Minal.

12: He montioned tuo croupa which hava been trying to contact his group.

One is the Dias Iana group whore approach vas diacouraged as Mr. Ereyre"s

croup does not want to have anything to do vith the 26 of July movement.

oe otber te the batiese group altering man pover under colonel Sanche

fonqueda, Nº. Freyre: Instructed his second in commend (Rodrigues Couselzo

to confer with the Batiate group.

SEGRET

---

