# 104-10188-10030

## Page 1

104-10188-10030

DDP/PO/FI

31 Ju: 63

PROJECT BRIEFING

PROJECT: LIFEAT

WE - Mexico

ACTION : ADDP approval of renewsi

1 Ju: 63 - 30 Jun 64

PURPOSE:

Eclephone tap operation (since l

provid-

ine information on the activities of selocted individuals

and groups in response to Station and leadquartera noods.

mIncipal targets have been official Installatiorg

oviet lo orricers, Polish and Yurosiav orricial Instal

latlong, selected Cubana, American Comunista in Mexico,

lertluts and exile groups in Mexico.

used on average of ls lines per month with a high of 25

lines in October 1962.

Primary emphasis 1s on CI/CE

information and data required to cupport other operations.

•PROQ-

RESS

-,

FUNDS

:

Projoct has continued to provido valuable information on

active soviet Intelligence officors and on other targeta.

Or porticulor Interest was the heavy coverage on Juan

JOSE AHEVALO.

Project continues to be available as a

resorve for the

_telephone tap operation, LIENVOY,

In the sent of a change In l

In addition to cl/cE and operational data,

project was credited with 36 positive disseminations.

$83,803

Salaries - 4 contract personnol

compensation to 15 indigenous agents

Rosenouge

transportation

¡ocellaneous operational expense:

• 3C

,OC

PREVICUS

APPROVALS:

1 l : 30 tun 63

- 30 Jun 62

1 Jul 50 - 30 Jun 51

- 30 Jun 60

1 0ct

50 - 30 Jun 51

132-090

150,035

6, E40

S50127

---

## Page 2

SEAr

STAPP

COMMENTS

PI, CI and Contral Cover Staffs concur In reneral.

RI STAFP:

Value of the project 18 primarily as

operational support mechanism. Last year

provided 36 disseminatione.

Although relatively

expensive, It appears to be worth the cost in

vien of lts abllity to perform a variety of useful

functions.

CI STAPP: Considers project as being an extremel

valuable producer of CI/CE coverage, leads and

support to other station operations.

appreciates the security problems as deserabed and

feels that the ctation has done a line Job in being

alert to and coping with these problems.

SECRET

"sis".

---

