# 104-10211-10070

## Page 1

104-10211-10070

SECRET

MARGED 800 OLGELI

Mas, Wis Divalon

COLT QUALITED DESE

CAN ROCE EDDONI

BPCROFILA

FRACING

SUBALCY

Chiot of Station, Nortoo City

ACTION EQUILA RULELIONS

IT-DOOR Progress Feport Jarny n July 1963

Astion Required: Mone, for your Information only

References: None

BACKGHOUND

On 3 January 1963 Quinton N. OUTER turned over the

responsibilities of inside Station control of the LINDTOR Project

to Marvin A. CABOr during & meting, held ulth the outside start

Agent for the LIMOiOR profoct,

Seymour D. TINICh.

What follons

1s the first in a serles of Profess Reports which 1t 18 hoped

all not only serve to keep lladquarters advised of just shat

La roing on In the LIMOTOR Project but Mill also serve to appris

endurtery in reater detall of the performance of the LINDIO

Hall Agent on the outside under student cover.

During. the

pertod under review TRINICH's replacemnt, Antalle S. MICHOFY

arried to tale over the outside responsibilities for LINDTOR

In the future repular Progress Reports on LINDIOR wild be

subuitted on a quarterly basis.

MERCINCS

During the perlod under rewith 32 metings vere hold with

Seywur De TRINNICH by Marvin A. CABOT®

To of these metings vere

In CABOT's home under the cover of darkness, The reminder vere

(cantinued)

Distribution

3 - WH

ПРЕЖДЕ ТО

HEPATCH SYNCE AND MUMMEN

1911-22103

LASSICANC

+ ***

isf

30 Oetaber 1953

9998 FILE MUMBLI

506.550

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-1900895

- AT N OT

DISPATCH

To DUTTA SIA ANO NO

1321-22103

at four selectod metint, ltes on the streets of the metropolitan

Thay have code nates and vere chosen to allon for maila

cheek of possible counter survelllance luse or one say atreate,

0tO.) CANI LUTIES TRIVICH at the predeterined sire at a

predoterined tim and ultiately picksp TANICH In hIS SP

whicle.

Trans metings are then held in CAlor*s car. To

spectel energmay setine. alted have bem selected hut never

weds one 18 class to TRINICH" a realdener, and the other elore

to the Us

1s ean be seon fron the number of metlap told in a

seven panth perlod, they very enually hold once a seek. TrawIch"s

metines ith the Other LINDTO? Basets vere so arrenped to allon

For a rentem pasane of tie betren the feld arente motines

and the motiny, with CABor.

Tre THINNICH COT setires urally

last, on the averas, tuo hours. Spreitle rerudromante vere

passed and acrinut rative utters re ettended to. Usually

TrAmUCH revlored ith CAuT each report recalued frau the LIMOTOR

meante and imediate midines is Elven there posalalo.

Chane metins are muntact caly contact with the ration.

dibrate efforts vre id to hoop hin areast of eneml

station develorente as well as WhAt dulopent

proton to be a distinet advantage from the stendpoint of the

ostaldo startures worle, ming him feel tuch sore part of the

Station and what it lu trying to accomplimh.

TRINICH 1n tum ind rodesignated meting altos for

TROTUCH began preparation of contact reports with ench of his

agents, In turn LINOIR lA uls Instructod to repare a abort

report an ench of his meting ath lIbBion?.

d:a:

Sinon Janmy 1963, the Station has attouptod, theirs

lee replar contact ith saywar Do Marach, to falo nother

Jansgit Into Just what goes on at the WAy which 1s of Interest

to the stacion, and at the mme tie to emine the LINCHOR

astete and their expabilities ta terma of the dill. the LIMOrOn

projeet 1i, as statos In tra Project Fennal, an Irportant

station "ay"s and eary" rechenden at the UlAl, Eased on a 100k

at lINcala for the period undey rovime the Station notes the

following:

infle the froject 19 producine 1t has recelvud

little in the may of muldance from the station on inad

quartery on infremation wilch li should colleet. A ro

«*annation of somes as alao necesaary.

There uns : InatTlelent coordination dch Station

CACE estivitina at the Dur

while it did prodhoc, little of the produet uma

monderud of value for foreal dissertion.

de

Thare mas little or no play back Into the LIVaTOR

rajeete that do to say that unile the Project 18sal5,

Drilly In tho person of TRIOUCH displayed Initlative

and sonerated activitt, lt often ended just at that point.

Tals contritated to lon urajo, partienlarly an it conserred

TRINICH

- USE PREVIOUS CONICA..

HE ANG

---

## Page 3

14sl0bo

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ClaSSe 6a1 c

CECLET

"Set rods does 00',

IRA 22303

At the burianine of the persod under rover, the LaNCIOR

stable conslated of the follouins assetes

LIMORly (sho enintained contaet with layerOIl?

and LIKAYAN, the lattor served as a

contact to ITIANOIl's 3 and 4)

IT HOTOR 19

LINCIO? 22

1i1a mes Minally corpleted affective

the end of March 1963

Althourh a old for dres or teradnation

pay nes rude, it was relected.

in ortor to provide LITAYAs-6

ult a muna of ecritaet sisuld acrothing of importinoe develos

In the future, LIOs? 14 vas Instrusted to squire & Post

Office Bos, inten he dido It was teren out in the allas used

by LI)DIOR 14 with IDAYARE (Pedro MORAN) and also the allas

Bad by LINITOR l4 MEn LADIEROL? (turo de la TOrTo) as an

everyoney mans of contact (usine, a toleran).

To As a ratter of operationni backgrand, seyour Do TrIaICH

as tom to LIbIors 1, 19, and 22 under his true mare. Tray

also knew bin hom telophans number mich un uned for conunleations

Mo then to him LINDIOR 11 has unavere of the estateroo of

LIDIOR a 19 and 22.

He anew OUSER under his true nielame.

Although LIMOTOrs 19 and 22 knaw each other aliently relally.

Chay were unmare of each othors elandestine relationship with

TRONICH, LDADICF19 knew Filnoas Fe SWHKA through thalr

aler cooporation on the Beager tave operation (under true

na. LIMO? 15 aloo lner OUSLER under true first no.

Do with parasTenh 7 In adad, there follows a boler res

of ench of the LIDTOP Arciss

nenapapers, irvaluelorarlo.

He 1s wolf veraed in Luly

studant aftairs zad has a nide rango al contacts ide

student leaders. Fe and the nemour vere of surtloular

Interest to un, particularly tecuse the lnttar sas considered

ane of the lirast at Duy tut because 1t was also financed

by the private sasretary to LITerODa in t'e race of LItEraR's

office. Toever by Angut Revolurionarto veg In bad Finanelal

Bernita, victim of enteralerent of hands, and virtually

ertinet

Troc, Incrohl" ve have attented to esploit

Lorol 2's other emotions i have tried to raise the

(cant iraned)

$4#1

B:82, 6-06 10d

USE PIEVO

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

PUPATCH

SECTET

- ЗДР'А 22303

not kno Illo? l by hla true name nor does he mor

that LIHOTOR 14 representa OCYONE Or PEPRIMP

He heve

tried to lapruse On LIENROIl?"s nind trat ho la vortane

for a "croup of Merle bustressuen interested in inoring

what la going on at the Ule Tra acent 1o pala 1 500

pesos monthly"

tranalate his reports.

This me feel is not surficient

work for this amnt mom me feel 10 a valuable long tenge

asset. End capable. "e have been attorpting to Intereat

him in becoming a nate boure keeper in addition to ris

resular deles. le lo also paid 1,500 pesos monthly.

Ile has taken on additional responsibilities at bie present

place of caployeant, hut as & target lt 1g prosently

completely uninteresting to us.

Should LITTOR err

noquire adational son PoPRIn assets, the arent would

be the kandler. fe la a Perican eltizens

C LINCTORI? Inle arent enclanes to cencentrate

on possible leads to present or niture mentars of the

atten equivalent of OrACID (see Project Foneral, VI.

PLANS, B)o

Also durine the perfod undor review she

did joon service in the RECHICK/INNAYS ease (see

also parmach 38 (2) of HIMA 22370, dated 28 October

1953)

In the first caterory she has already couleted

prollenary unite upe on ton of the 29 staints of tba

schodl in questions

She is one of the finest ellelbors

of infortion ve have sen and continues to do a fine

Job, montowr her arigwent wight ber Incidantall

8he

1s on the excutive board of the

Erup, a strange constellation of staxents, and vIsitori

Ineluding diploma, LUDTOR19 18 the regular sure

of tha Station's 11st of Sahool for Forelears studati.

LOrOR 22. Fu In a ressive enset at the MAY

who has been instracted to report all t'at he sees or

hears unton deals vith student pollesent croupings of

the left in all malties at UNAl, wich perticalar

attention to student @lections and politieal s11 mnts.

He him been in the beat position, alone with klyNarol?

to suport on the activitles o! LICOAT And LILI P-C.

LIOTOR 22 awelfleally, as tell as LIMorges 14 and

19 mus scheduled for an LOTUTTER emination De

results of that examination will be discusood in the

Progress Peport covering tre period after Aurust 1353

or 1a a saparate dispatch

(eatinand)

"1.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTIWJATION OF

DISPATCH.

TE SAVE A SYNOC, AND NO

Px4 2210

So As Indiested 17 the Project Snami ma have no Imediate

plans to empend nure mieully the assets of LiMon?.

AdDUCTION

10.

buring the period January - June 1963. 225 mar reporta

were proceed by the LItrOR assote. Of chese, 38 orignated

nath seyaour Do TRUENCHS 3 WEn LIDAOR 14; 33 with LIDDOIL?

(nlthours newral of those emntatned several toples)s 75 with

ELMOTOR 191 and 76 ulth LINTOR 22. Then Mines uy bo further

malyad as follon:

SayRoug Do TRINNICH

Personalitleu

LITALON 3

Karla Castaa Ston

LiAN Losture Eerles

Luisa Pintos Mino

Hes Cuban Onltural Inst.

Polstloal Croups - UNN

Publications

CHE (D)

18

6

38

LIMOTOR 14

Persona 11tlea

bat

ITMOM: -12

Personalitles

Colerto da Moxiao

(inelusing lends)

Locture Jerlea

Political Groupe UNAN

RECIDICK

Hohert Oba Jones Group

Cle Clube

LITAN 3

Center of Latin Aurlean

stutters

Marla Custar, Sten

CNT. (D)

Klaoel laneous

280

16

" In addition LIMOOR 19 produced

three llets of Jehool for

April and tely 1963

INKYBROTE?

Revoluc tonario

Fat lentlons

Personal1t1es

Pol1t1cal (Madco)

1VR0

Student Floattor

Youth Presa Woek

Placellaneou

Lecture Sortes

Pablleations

Politient Groupe

Rectiona

CRAM Pacalties

Mchmen Riots

Persona 11ttes

RITALON 3

CAL. (D)

Place llandous

(cantinued)

28

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CODIRAE

SECRET

L9H422103

1lo By catagory the shov proruction 18 an fallens:

Fersonalities

Lecture Sarles

Tolstical Groups UNAT

colando de laxico

26

20

16

Pudlientions

Sadent Eloctlone

DOUs a Daneral

Stadent Associations

Harte Qustam Sten

BOCHICK

Robert Cuts Jones (roup

Ravo lue Longie

Kigboanaa Riote

The personality sports more routod to interusted station offloor.

and were than sado part of eratian parsonality Mles at the

station, All of the roperte connucted aith the Ural very read

by the slation suche offlore for whatever netion tray felt

Reports dalins, with Es subjects or personalities

tere rantad to StINKaiD, Tria run report produetion does serve

Do strung, ban Jation C1 and peraonality Mles and by 1ts ury

nature little of 1t eur men the llet of day la tarms of forual

alsonation outsde the station (an amaption mas 1511-6693)

12e Unfortunately, only tho of the 225 ran renorto reelud

formal diesenation, both orleinatin Ith LIENADI? (18945 6939

and 7510•

An indicated in the Froject Renmal subretted with

HUA 22650 and in FA 22370, 1t 13 hoed throush proper puídanca

and inorensed diretion to in able to mate the lual of disseminable

Intoract lon ort inatina virin the LIÓTOR Profest, Elforta 1111

be made to enlist the support of the Malich folleles, sootier

as sell ca the local ZOLO to telter channel the LIDSOR

efforts and Increams eustony Interest in the procet, by

arulding the statten idth suitable mildance more posalble.

Cova

13. The station has not onoountered ecver problem oth

the Project during the parlod under revien

The eapability of

the Project la cartainly enhanood by the fact that the start

Agent outside is under student eover. He can develop espertl

In the lIVIOR targue shrach bis dally activities and comment

01th greater anthorlty en lia production of other LIHOrCES.

(eont famed

show !

Ecade, so det. mat

M 5à tond 19

At 1571'C

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

648502,0040

SECRET

19941-22903

since early 1963 pluna vire rade for the evunbur

appearance of an ILLUMSP. toen trun indriarters.

Dared on

earler corrusandance, LILOR 22 INS a ITIrE sandidate, and

both LuttoR's 19 and z2 mr Inoluted in further planing for

the LCHurISh vialt.

15. lio security insidonte have occurred duriny tre period

An Indented in Darest 3 How, JusT Aynt

Moraney tetings oan elays be

oteMilse the littoR rau raterial as puch as possible, to

proteet 1t against exposure of assets shoald it evr bubone

comprosieed.

15: BATACtIN 1 JulY 1563 LTAOTOR, d'a salary vas Inerased

to 1,360 pesos per conta (less FAPINE tax dolationa) N

other salary Incroase are contreplated.

ALI LD-DIOR prodiation (ran reporte alted under PRODOCTION

abora) 1a routed to COS and D00S plus the Irterusted Mation offles

CONCLUSTONS

18, DurIng the partod under roules, drinite progress

has been made toard the otfeotives an at do in parasraph

5 abor Plans call for parvin l. CABOI to brief the Station's

operational start on Libill during one of the rogular moorly operational

start rootings.

sidlarly, plas enlied for a senting of CABOr,

IRonIch, and ricow ith salon Wcar. offloor, continud

effart 18 being made to leprove the quality and noose ei LIMotoR

ant repurting

and lest bat not least, thave nor procati

aunch Agnes sure drorped the neIt LDOIDR Proffesa Repart

idl? deanstrate er furt bur propress toard these sodest

Objectims.

do Cas ourall fletor mat aluo le considerede In vien

of the seope of this Station'é operational sellrity, and rivar

the pery spectal politteal cospleslon el the student body and

reanty of the wur, thie sation cunot esally allor 1tmli

Underd C. CURTIS

safen to

$CRA

USE PRIVIONS EDUNCAI

---

