# 104-10188-10041

## Page 1

104-10188-10041

DISPATCH

Chlef; WA Division

deserte. "

SECHOEN

tily

PROCESSINE ACTION

DARNIO AND INCARING

DO 190EX:NE REQUIRLO

ORLY GALITO DESE

CAN NUDGE INDEXINE

AN LiVi

AR

TO

IXFO

FRICHA

DESENSITIZED

xx

sar GSN 43-43

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUSIEr: OLIFEAT PoRTess Report/July 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

BI

Ref: HAMA 21755

The following report ia submitted in accordance with CSPHB-F- 52-6-1

ection V, paragraph 2 (d) (1)

A. EXPLONTATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Sorlet

LIPPAT has continued ita

dally coverage of the home phones of tro known Soviet Intelligence Officers.

This has enabled the interested Staiion officer to monitor the daily activitios

of these officere Including clandestine contacts of one and lately the appar

ent involvement of the other in an affair with the wife of another Soviet

orficial stalloned in Mexico.

(2) LIFEAT/Polish

During the final weeks of

REKNAVE's stay in Mexico, LIFEAT provided continuing support to the attempted

approach to BXIAVE.

This support included periods of

"IIve-monitoring" the

target lines to Elve early warning o! BONAVE's exact departure plans as well

as the movements of BEKNAVE. LI'EAT also initiated coverage of the Polish

Comercial Office In support of the Interested Station officer's attempt to

gain more information on that installation and the personnel assigned therete.

Prod: 111113001031 9031 da09103

24.9.3.6

(3) LIFEAT/Cuban

LIFEAT coverage of two

targets related to the AMSTRUT operation are of great in'erest to JWAVE and

Headquarters.

Copies of the processed take from these lines are forwarded

weekly to these customerg.

A recent and exceilent roundup of AMSTRUT-S done

by Headquarters drew heavily on LIFEAT provided information. This roundup

was very vell done and greatly appreciated by the Station.

During the re-

porting period nothing of interest was obtained from the coverage of the

home of a Cuban Commercial Attache and it la planned to cut this coverage in

the near Niture if it remains unproductive.

#HOT

:%OH

(4) LIFFAT/Exile

LIFFAT coverage of ESLARD 1

continues to be of interest to both the Siation, Headquarters and

other

Stations sto are corneried with PSIARDl's activities.

Information con-

cernirg SSLARD-l's planned travel lo boti: Central America and PAYRIME waS

fully reported from this coverage.

LIPEAT Information enables the Station

to provide cinely physical surveillance of SSLARD-l which should five infor

mation of his exact departure date and pade of travel.

SPASS REFERENCE TO

RECORD COPY

DISPATCH SYMORE AND NUMBER

THE 100492029

0:+rg18:.36 and

DATE

27 August 1963

SECRET

150-6-32,

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SPCRET /

KMMA - 22039

LIFEAT continued coverage of

has provided

a number of loade for posoible agent candidates to asseas and develop thia

Costa Rican Comminiat exile.

(5) LIFFAT/American Communist Group in Mexico (ACOM)

The information provided to the local ODENVY office fron the coverage of

David LUCKER and Charles SMALL, (SMOLIKOFT) 18 most useful to that office

for coverina American leftlats and Communists who travol to Maxiço.

these travellera continue on to Cibe.

Their contacts with members of ACON

are of special interest to ODENVY.

(6) LIPEAT/MIscellaneous

As noted in reference the

coverage of a former SMOTH agent la of interest to Headquarters, SMOTH and

the senior ODYOKE official in Mexico.

Recent Information from thia coverage

Indicates that this individual la continuing in his literary efforts against

LIFFAT, at Headquarters request, has undertaken coverage of two

targets of ZRINICK interest.

Although the coverage has not sa yet been of

sufficient duration to judge the take definitively, one of these coverages

appeare to lave potential in providing Information of interest.

B. PROCESSINO OF TAKE

Processing workload of the LIFEAT processor/translator staff remains

heavy, but no backlor, has developed. With the recrultment of LIFEUD-28,

there will be a posalble more equitable divicion of the work for the noted

C. PERSONNEL.

L.IFBUD-28 was granted a POA on 8 July 1963. This agent candidate ie

presently being assessed, PRQ Part II will be forwarded at the earliest

possible date.

LIFEUD-1 has initiated attempte to expand his coumission for investl-

sating administrative personnel of the

] (80e paragraph 2 C

of reference to include alli

would give L-l the access to the

he previously enjoyed as

an "employee

of confidence".

ven with the presently reduced access,

,IFEUD-] has continued to make a substantial contribution to the success o

i5530

D. LIAISON

No change from conditions noted in reference.

E. SECURITY

As noted in reference LIFEAT access to the

reduced by the combination of LIFEUD-l's "retirement" and the new "work

order" system being implemented by thel

As of the present,

LIFEAT has not been adversely effected in any particular Ineident by the lack

of LIFDUD- 1'g

"protection" of the LIFEATC

although this constitutes

& continuing danger to the operation. LIFSUDI 1s working tovard regaining

the access he preslously enjoyed.

If he is cuccessful LIFEAT'a access to

the

land partial circumvention of the "work order" system

would be re-established.

Just prior to the reporting period, a telephone work crew disconnected

the LIFEAT lines routing the Yugoslav Embassy tap lines to the basehouse.

This was done at a point one-half mile fron the basehouse and an equal die-

tance fron the target Embassy, and at a point where the tap routing was

"Jumped" from one telephone central's area to the central area serving the

basehouse.

nature of

these unusual connections.

therefore disconnected

the tap routing completely between

the basehouse and the telephone work crew.

PAGE NO

SCRET

TWO

CHINUED

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRAT/

KNMA-22029

Even If the crew hail then attempted to checkout the routing it would have

been impossible.

No direct damage vas done to LIFFAT as a result of this

discovery but it was afreed that if possible LIENVOY should ossume the

Yugoslav coverage in the future.

If such will not prove feasible, a cooling

parial vell enaus preo in TIPFAT atremptire to ro-egtablish the noted

F. TECHNICAL

No change from conditions noted in reference.

?. The coverage provided by LIPPAT during the reporting perlod totaled

19 separate lines.

A breakdown by target is as followes

Aleksandr G. SIDOROV

Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV

2.

3.

*, 5, and 6.

7, and 8. AMSTRUT operation.

9. Home of a Cuban Commercial Attache

10.

Hone of a Czech intelligence officer

11. and 12. Targets of ZRONICK interest

13.

and 14, ESLARD-1 and related line

David TRUCKEr

16. Charles SMALL (SMOLTKOPP)

17•

18, and 19. Former SMUTH ngent and related line.

During the reporting period a number of memoranda vere prepared by

the Station

for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part

• on LIFEAT provided material. One IMM was provided based on LIFEAT material

(HM4-7550).

heard (Castes

Distribution::

3 - C/WID

2 - Piles

FORMA

101 530

(+0)

fire peed rust

REPLACES PORR

STРN ФІДВА ДІ

CLASS FICATICI

SECRET/

50-6-32/3

DAGE NO

THRFE

---

