# 104-10183-10372

## Page 1

104-10183-10372

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OLASSITICATION

SECRET

and a

DISPATCH

Chiefs Task Force W

PROCESSING

ACTION

HARRIS FOR INDERING

HO INDERITE HQUIRED

ONE QUALISID

MASPULATIRS DESA

CAn NOCE MOLKING

§ ASTRET

d:7 8806#

Chief of Station. JMWAVE

sarT Operational/GYROSE/KUWOLF.

P5Q Part II - AMICE =

CTION REQUIRED RUFERENCEI

Forwarded herewith for your information is the PRQ Part II .

on AMICE-14• (201-307337)

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHMENT: (herewith)

PRO Part Il

DISTRIBUTION:

8 - Chief, TIW w/att. (herewith)

safet

ECRET

281-307337

CATE TYPED

DATE DESPATCHED

2 Oct. 62

CCT 3 15S2

DISPATCH SYMBOL A NO NUNGER

UFGA-S982

202-307337

---

## Page 2

2.

Th i a

80081

SECRET

PRO MO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO.

UEGA-5982

INSTRUCTIOES TO CASE OFFICER

facer or ispropriate authority on the besid of the boat arailoble in

2225 bu

arao8rs (ool1:+444183098

" an as postandar ceone, 18 20801010) and 100(8) car.

CRYPTONTH

AMICE-14

None

SECTION

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

IADICATE MOH. THEN. INHERE,

WHY, AND BY MACH SUNJECT DAS FIRSE CONTACTEO ON DEVELOPED.

Subject was spotted, sssessed and developed by members of

ANICE at the direction of JAVE for use la planned infil

ops targetted at PBRUMEN.

ANOCAL ME'S PUDICATE TO NOR TUANCO OVER QUIRIT AS IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY ASTONSIOLE CASE OFFICER ROR

Subject is aware of KUBARK sponsorship of A'ICE and therefore

would be responsive to the direction of any KUBARK cas officer.

SEE PROSA CASE ODICES ONO HAVE MANOLEO SUBICY OR DISO NE UNDOS OR MAS ANDRA, GIVE MANES DY ONICH HEY MANC

Clayton B. FARSIITEY as "Frank"

Harold NOEMAYR AS "Roger"

(sore: "Subjeot has never pet current AuCE case officer.)

"Tia!?: ":* arterate

1488

cirl- + 0568-59552

SECRET

18-208

7610307337

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

POBI IT

MarIon. ¡De Jereed. Il possible colo duidence do not une alock epanene duch as -ant!

subject is an escapee from

PBRUNES, having arrived in PBPRIME on

20

June 1061 in a small boat.

He had participated in five

infil

operations undertaken

independent of kUlARk in connection with

a revolutionary group

from September 1958 through June 1961.

His

notivation toward KillArk is based at least partly on the salary he

Bas received since April 1962.

AN AT CONTROL, LE ANY, CRISTS OVER THE SUBJECT, IlE DO COMPROS, ON al there 18 a lock of tell control

dARk control is exercized through AMICe leaders and is partly

dependent upon

monetary considerations,

SECTION 110

COVER

%. COVER USES BY SUBJECT ANO CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MLETINES.

No direct agent-case officer contacts at present. Subject's

cover is that of an AVICE employee.

a- COVER USEO BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING MIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING NIS INFORMANTS.

Not applicable

S. ISDICATE SERVICE FOR THICH SUBJECT THINES ME (BIlL WORR) (l$ HOrkinA).

KUBARK

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE COMMECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIS SUBJECT'S ANDRA PAST OR PRESENT CONMECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE EXTENT

SUCH CORMECTION IS KBO

Subject is known

not to have heen an active member of a revolutionary

organization opposed to the Castro regime. No other intelligence

connections are known.

LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (ARanCe, relatives, (opendo) 1HO UNDO O6 SUDJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACCOVITIES.

Sibject is one of a team of four trained for AMICE infil ops.

Besides knowing

each other and the two case

officers whoigave

ther training,

they know and are known by AVICE/l and /29 and

AYOT/20, all cleared members of the AMICE organization.

9. CROCAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT MAS HAD IN CLANDESTIME OPERATIONS.

KURARk training in demolition, 45-calibre pistol, M-1 rifle, 4-3

A-1, BAR, compass, caching and base procedure (Fair/Good)

INSICATE OTHER SORESCA POSER SUBJICS DOULO DE MOST LIBILE TO COLLARORATE DITM ALCAUSE OF MIS IDES, OST I PASS

with a central

one tran of solen as piece serve mone like by any ollar

to collaborate

foreten power.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECTION VI

SECRET

OPERATIONAL

USE - CONTACT

SUBJECT HAS-BEEN USCO OR CONTAGILS BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN UNICA ME DAS INCAGIO AND INE TOPE OF INTON.

Direct contact with Subjec & was maintained only for the training

mentioned above.

He has furnished no information except on his

own background and experience.

IADICATE NOE AND FROM THON SUBJECT OUTAINS INFORMATION.

Not applicable

INDICATE THAY HAS DELA SOLO SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION ME FURNISHES.

Not applicable

4. DETAIL SUBJECT•S PROPOSEO FI OR CO TIPE USE OR DUTIES.

Then and if the infil team of which Subject is a member is activated

a good part of the mission

will be collection of positive intelligence.

S. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED EP-PLA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

the infil team was trained in basic paramilitary operations in order

to effect the physical

security of the proposed operation.

Mission

will be to collect intelligence

and to initiate more active under-

ground opposition

to the current PBRUMEN regime through labor unions

24

SECTION VID

PROPOSED!

FOR OPERATIOMAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSEO

PAYPE CONTACI OR ORERATIONAL ILSE:

.. AMERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AC

Not applicable

B. PHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN OOVOKE

AGENCY.

Not applicable

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SURJECT

Sublect knows case ofricers FARSITEY and NOEMAYl in alias.

SECRET

3/00

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

SECTICH AK

QUALIFICATIDNS FOR GTHER OPEDATIONS

¡SICANE SORERATORILITIES, PALERTS, GO GUALIPICATIDAS POSSESSED DO SUBUEES MMIÇM SSILE CONSEINABEO DE DE VALUE

OTHER OPERATIONS.

maritime operations because of his past experience and

his access

to potential assels along the north coast of Matanzas.

SECTION *

COMNI THEATS.

15 P9 1S PROPOSIO TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY,

INDICATE TRE MECALY ARQUAT, lE FAYMENT iO DE MADE IN ENCHANGE

COMMODITILS, SUASIDS OR OTHER

MEPHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

$175 monthly paid through AlICE.

3 EXPLODGAR PROMISET; OTMERRISE NOT COVENLO MERCOM, MADE PO SUBJECT, (ExAMple: COnDilmentE reBuIdIne arOGUelIOR

No commitments outstanding, although it is probably that some

benefits would have to be promised to his family in the case of

his death, serious injury or capture on an official mission.

CE AND SECURITY

SE THORATE ME FOCCO ACCRCIES AND PIGLO PILLS ON ONICA SUBJECT-S HAUL NAS OLEN CHECAEO ANO INE RESULTS.

WAVE and Headquarters files checked and l0A issued in XDIR-01454.

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAXES TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATIDN FURNISMED BY SUBJECT.

Vouched for by personal acquaintances among cleared AMICE officials.

INDICATE WHETHER

DOVER FOR SUNGRO SOS PROS STONE OPINIO DE APPROVAL ON OPERATIONAL AP.

TE. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINEO

3 April 62

POA--DIR-01454

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY ANO SECURITY, COTIMG EVIDENCE INCRE POSSIOLE.

he only references in the file on this individual describes hi

a raincere and capable.

* FASSACE PONSE SATURN O IMPSCRITIOO IN PAIN SUBICY MAY MAVE OLLA INVOLVE ARICA MUST DE GUALARCO PROUA

None known.

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

ECTION XI

• USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS, CANDLING. PARAMOUR.

"one

known

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

SECTICK KILL

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

INDICATE SUBJECT-S HOBBIES OR INTERESO 18 SPORTS, MUSIC. LIC

None known

SECTICH HEV

GOMERM

' A COU TUDE SURE DARLOUR SON! "SAND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUEM AS ME COULO PASS AS A RATIVE

Unknown

INDICATE BENTH OR OTHER MEANS

IN PRO PARTS I AND 1E

WAS OBTAINED DY RESEANCH, CLAMDESTINE ASSESSMENT. PILES.

COMRESPONDENCE

All of the information was either volunteered by Subject or ascer-

tained by personal observation of his acquaintances in AluE or

of the two case officers who participated in his training.

" LEOTHER. TUSS, "OUTING ACTIOM IS REQUIREO, IS AND AHEM TERMIMATION OF SUBURET IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAID. (ALDO

in infil ops for KUllRk,

the complexity of quitcalins etc.

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY COXDITIONS RECORTACT ARRANCONDATS

GIVE FUEL DETAILS I.E, RECOGHITION SIGHALS.

S'S ANERE COULO CONTACT BE MADES MHAS BOGA FIDES COULD IPDIDIQUAL

MAKING CONTACT USES

Contact is Indirect through A ICE officials who have natural

cover for

the necessary number of meetings.

POlITIcK claining to be a friend

of "Frank" and "loger"

would be acdepted

as a bona fide KUBARkER.

SECTION XVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARS

DATE

18 sentenber 191;?

SECRET

---

