# 104-10163-10011

## Page 1

104-10163-10011|

11 September 1963

Dally Log

1.

Berause CAshS did not call bafor 1:30 hours, PEARY called fu

at his fir in accomance with arrargements made last night. CAShS said U

that his chief would not release him for the several days. required for

the l'erico tripo

in being asked 1f he objected to our discussing thi

stracion with his chief, CASASisald that he had no objections, but he d

ld express enricemn about his job. He was agsured that his job was not

to be janpurdized. On firther query, CASAS sair that he would make the 0-

trip if we could get the approval of his chief.

2. In the meantime, SAS/saculty came up with information on CASASO, 05

Fish, anl especially on his chief, HALLECK,

and by mid aftornoon.

8406

bearance permitting us to discus our utilitation of CAShS with HALLOCK.

106

EARLOCK,

DOB: 28 May 1916

Boy 19 Po Co2. (804) 5 020612) 08

0680

lads Worth 24th Street, Camp H111

o Pa: 08

Tol: 1737-7875

Hil. Ser.:

West Point 1937, Engineering

Retared DO June 19521 09

Legion of Merit

Bronze Star, Oak Leaf Cluster

Occupations

Daractor of General Engineering Division,

dannett, Hening, Gorddry and Carpenter, Ine, 29

600 W. 2nd 3to, Harrisburg, Pa.

301: 238-0451

30

berore batting up to harrisburg te ta to HALLoCk, we telephome

him at his office to inquir as to his avallability.

He was, howevar.

ready well aware of our concern, having dismused tha matter with CASAS DE

at moon Lapparently jugt, aftar we called EAst nd mentioned that we would 0 5

contact his chief). Although we pointed out clearly that CASAS was required 05

to provide vital asststance in an effort of considerable valuo to ire U.5.

Government, BALIOEX repliod that his firm also had a priority requiremart

of Importance Involving the Covernment of Costa Rica: in connection with

this job, Costa Rica had sent an engineer to deal with the firm; this unginser

vould be in harrisurg until the end of the month,

CASAS Tabsence would D5

result in inactivity on the part of this engineer.

and every day lost

would be contrary to the requirements of the contract between the f1r ub

and the Government of Costa Rica. WALLOCKladded that CASAS had Lold him

that he did not want to leave his ranigumenta

Although Hallock wes grebanly

OYrofusing CAsAs Aservicos through sols - his I1ra'a - Interest, I foul that

05 05As derinitely asked MALOck to put up as strong a molstanco so hi:

8406

05

06

E:, BnXE334099

1y342049

/ 11 Sept 13

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

291BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2.

TOlease as poea1ble.)

111 be carded appropriately,

30 ALCUT whon they are obvioualy enger to uno sor the pitch offort.

I EDE 334089

(P2

4/5R

---

