# 104-10217-10169

## Page 1

104-10217-10169

wa. a no 701-2293491

CASSON SO FENCE SES 54 I

MACE TO HII NỮ _

122

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

24

SECRET

2

AG 5-51

ROUTING

15

6

FROM MANAVE

ACTION:

INFO:

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, DO 4,00/M 3, CA 2,

CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, C1/OPS,

C1/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, RI/AN, WH/SA 12, WH 8,

VR, FILE, CS/RF

UNDEXED AND CONTROL CUPIES

SECRET 20N8ZZR ADEL

JANI

2892452,65 IN 63877

DIR INFO

LANT BARR

CITE WAVE 730K INCHUTES ASZING)

- PRON!

INTEL TYPIC

UF66 6546

ABSTRACT

VEL INDEX

SUPDATA: AMRAZZ-I NUTHPARAS T AND 2 FROM CECILIO VAZQUEZ ON 7

AND 9 JANUARY. RE PARA 3, SOURCE SET UP INTERVIEW BETWEEN TANIA

AND EDDIGER FOR 16 JAIL. IN ADDITION, ED REINGOLD OF MIAMI BUREAU

TIMES CALLED SOURCE ON 18 JAN TO POSTPONE PREARRANGED LUNCHEON

MEETING 12 JAN, CLAIMING HAD COVER PANAILA DISTURBANCE. EXPECTED

RETURN MIAMI ABOUT 14 JAN. ALSO, SOURCE'S MOTHER WROTE FROM HABANA

O 25 DECEMBER: "ELOISE (ELOY) RUMORED SPENDING FEW DAYS GITMO."

Y SHE MADE NO EXPLANATORY COMMENT. RID: INDEX. FILED ZФФ$$2."

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

'SUBJ: EXPECTATION OF MILITARY ACTION BY ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO IN

MICROFILMED

IW COMMENT:

R

FEB 1 0 1965

DOC. MICRO. SER.

4P

R

Y

R

C

WH/SA

WH/REG

REL

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

20 JANUARY 1965

0406Z

SECRET

rost 1 389

TDCS DB-315/00175-65

X I ROUTINE

I PRIORITY

BASED ON: UFG-6546

NP (AMRAZZ-I)

LIAISON:%

201-769349

R0Janius

EXELUOND FROM AUTOMATIC

133%

+.03 12: 40039

---

## Page 2

1.115o

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO

FEB 4 12 42 PM '65

CLASSIFIEO MESEAGE

SECRET

- fiB. & iu

2

195 564

ROUTING

6

7

18!20

PAGE 2

IN 63077

FEBRUARY 1965

15r621.110

DOI: 7 AND 9 JANUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 JANUARY 1965)

UFG - 6546

SOURCE: A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONAR 1O DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE).

HE HAS BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION AND ON GENERAL

EXILE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

YA I

IW COMMENT:

RELEASING I WO

TDCS

TROUTINE

BASED ON:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

LAISON

#9#B

FRON AUTOMATE

SECRET

m724111:1:1166988:631::

BUCLASHIPIGATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

PRIORITY

Copy Ne

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CONTROLLEO DISSEE

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY

CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

7 AND 9 JANUARY 1965

• SUBJECT

INFORe

EXPECTATION OF MILITARY ACTION BY ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO IN FEBRUARY 1965

PLACE &

CATEACO. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 JANUARY 1965)

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALS

TDCS

DISTR. 20 JANUARY 1965

REF

IN 63877

FIELD REPORT NO., -UFG-6546

A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIEMTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL

AND RELIABLE

PUEBLO ( MR, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE). HE HAS BEEN AN ACCURATE

REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIRATION AND ON GENERAL EXILE POLITICAL

DEVELOPMENTS SINCE MID 1962.

сіг Сива

!: ON 9 JANUARY 1965, CECILIOT VAZQUEZ, A CUBAN EXILE RESIDING

IN THEADOMINICAN REPUBLIC WHO IS DESCRIBED AS A CONFIDANT OF ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, MI CUARY LEADER OF THE SEGUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL

ESCAMBRAY (SFNE, SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY), REASSERTED

THAT GUTIERREZ HAD ARRIVED IN CUBA. HE ALSO SAID THAT "IN ABOUT A

MONTH, " WHEN GUTIERREZ EFFECTS SOME TYPE OF ACTION INSIDE CUBA, A

PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF GUTIERREZ' ACTIVITIES WILL BE MADE. THIS

ACTION WILL BE THE SIGNAL FOR THE SFNE - ALPHA-66 - MRP ALLIANCE

LEADERS TO ACTIVATE THEIR PREARRANGED PROPAGANDA AND FUND-RAISING

CAMPAIGNS. VAZQUEZ SAID HE WOULD ELABORATE ON THESE RESPONSIEILITIES

rals material contains informatina alecting the National Defense of the United Stares within the menning of the Esplonage Lawa, Tille

IB, UBC. Secs, 113 and 111, the tranmision or revelntion of which in any manner to an unsucharted pernon in probibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSES

toad treas

STATE/ENR

DIAD/EMY/ACSI

SUSCO FBI LENS SECRET

NSA

TREASURY

BORDER PATROL" CUSTOMS

'CIA/NMCC

EXO

---

## Page 4

CONTROLIED DEST

"'10O to

IN

63077

CONFIDENTIAL

SEBAGE 2

AND DUTIES UPON HIS RETURN FROM PUERTO RIÇO ON ABOUT 15 JANUARY.

2. ON 7. JANUARY, VAZQUEZ, WHO HAD JUST ARRIVED IN MIAMI FROM

NEW YORK CITY, SAID THAT THE NEWS OF GUTIERREZ' EXPLOITS IN CUBA

WOULD BE DIVULGED THROUSH THE NEW YORK TIMES, HE MENTIONED THE

NAME OF TAD SZULC.

3. ON THE WEEKEND OF 9 - 18 JANUARY, TED EDDIGER OF THE

UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL (UP)) EXPRESSED AN INTEREST IN INTER-

VIEWING TANIA SALAS, GUTIERREZ' WITL, (SOURCE COMMENTS IT IS POSSIBLE

THAT EDDIGER WANTS TO HAVE THE ARTICLE IN RESERVE IN THE EVENT THAT

GUTIERREZ SOON BECOMES FRONT-PAGE NEWS.)

4. CFIELD COLMENT:

* DATED 31 DECEMBER

1964, FOR PREVIOUS INFORMATION ON THE ALLEGED ARRIVAL OF GUTIERREZ

IN CUBA.

50 FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, CONKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, I&NS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG. (ALSO SENT

SANTO, DOMINGO.)

• 78.4

CONFIDENTIAL

' (END OF MESSAGE)

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

