# 104-10326-10001

## Page 1

104-10326-10001

MHENO:

/

98-2262774

SENSIND:

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE:

SEC

R

ET 3016217 JUL 98 STAFF

CITE

19048

TO:

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM EUR/NG INFO CIC/EUR, EUR/NGUK, EUR/LGL, EUR/COPS

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: PROPOSED DECLASSIFICATION OF

<JFK>BOARD

DOCUMENT FOR RELEASE TO

REF: DIRECTOR 908321 98 2225461

TEXT:

1.

ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE ADVISE: NEXT STEPS ON REVIEW/RELEASE

OF BSS DOCUMENT PER PARA 3 IN LIGHT OF

STRONG OBJECTIONS:

REF DOCUMENT DESCRIBING 1963 INTERVIEW BY

JOFFICER OF

MRS. LILLIAN SLOBODA WAS PASSED TO

] MORNING 30

IN TWO SUBSEQUENT PHONE CONVERSATIONS, WHICH WERE FOLLOWED UP

WITH A TELEX,

ADVISED THAT

HAD. REVIEWED THE 1963

DOCUMENT (CSCI-3/778,353) AND THE CASE, ANDL

DOES NOT/NOT CONCUR

*WITH THE RELEASE OF A SANITIZED VERSION OF THIS DOCUMENT TO THE<JEK>

REVIEW BOARD.

TELEX. 766 OF 30 JULY OUTLINING

OBJECTION TO RELEASE OF THE DOCUMENT IS AS FOLLOWS:

"THE INFORMATION GIVEN TO THE SECURITY SERVICE BY MRS. SLOBODA,

AS RECORDED IN THE INTERVIEW REPORT, WAS GIVEN TO US IN CONFIDENCE

AND PASSED TO THE U.S. AUTHORITIES IN CONFIDENCE ALSO..

ON THE

GROUNDS OF ITS AGE AND THE PERSONAL NATURE OE ITS CONTENT, WE WOULD

NOT PUBLICLY RELEASE SUCH A REPORT IN THEL

AND ASK THE .U.S.

AUTHORITIES TO WITHHOLD IT FROM PUBLIC RELEASE IN THE USA."

PLEASE ADVISE FOR

INFORMATION WHAT HAPPENS

NEXT WITH DECLASSIFICATION/RELEASE OF THE DOCUMENT.

*ASKED WHETHER, IN FACT, WE CAN DENY RELEASE TO THE<JFKSREVIEW BOARD

GIVEN

_OBJECTIONS.

WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE ANY FURTHER EXPLANATION

HQS CAN PROVIDE FOR

TON THE REVIEW BOARD'S INTEREST IN SOVIE!

DEFECTORS. L IS SOMEWHAT PUZZLED BY THE REQUEST TO RELEASE THIS

*PARTICULAR DOCUMENT SINCE THERE IS NO APPARENT CONNECTION TO THE<JFK>

*<ASSASSINATION>OTHER THAN THE TIME FRAME.

SECRET

1

FRP:

, 2,

STAFF

ACTION: EUR/NG (393) INFO: CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGEUR, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC,

EUDORECORD, EUR/COPS, EUR/DCCI, EUR/LGL, EUR/NGUK, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD,

ORMS/EUR, RYBAT, FILE, CIC/EUR (2/W)

98 2262774

ASO

TOR:

PAGE

001

301620Z JUL

IN 2262774

19048

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MHENO:

98-2262774

SENSIND:

SECRET

RYBAT

PAGE:

2

4.

FILE:

DRV LIA 1-87.

END OF MESSAGE

NONE.

DECL ON: X1, CL. REASON: 1.5(C), CL BY: 0491759

• SECRET

SECRET

---

