# 104-10110-10568

## Page 1

104-10110-10568 •

92692

SECRET

AI2. 8

Chief, Contact Dividen

Bopport Branela

Chief, Chleago Meld Offten

Barren Secret Marvice

23 Dee 1963

04-691316

51732

IN

lo, Al Thorpron

Chicago,

potential fa concerned.

Chicago Field Office fIles contaln ne Infor

mation on the company, the Chiongo telephone directory

reflecte the company was formed 1y 1888 and has offices

and/or representatives in the principal cities of the

morldo (See attached Redbool ad).

3o Local I'BI contacte has

no internation concern

log' the company. Albert Johaos, on ex-161 men who has

operated a private detective agency in Chlenge for year

told ne thai George 3a large neVla sole omer and 1a

the son o1 the founder.

"Who Johnson deseribed Hargrave

An a big, 230 pound man who has been merled five times.

In baniness, he la the type to pur on a blg shou and 1a

not averto to putting more men than necesansy, on a job

in order lo charge his elsent a higher pifce and profit

accordingly. It. Johnaon said that, although Hargrave

advertises offices throughout the vorid he doubte that

thean are my more then Inventigative correspondents.

-A-92692.

A casun] lagulTy pat to Richard Cela, Chief

Investigator, Cook County Sherlff's Offlca, brought forth

the comment that Cala distruets largrave.

He unid hu

Anons bin personally end does not regard Alm us a diacrees

r?"

person.

entes far are is of the dove,

tay vant to reconsider

(UGs

Ila. Lohmmm

Astochment

SECRET

BOW 1

Eschled frame aton

Summerine aar

217V

---

