# 104-10183-10274

## Page 1

104-10183-10274

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

no datell

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORFIGS DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

The Organization of the General

Directorate of Intelligence

(Direccion Ceneral de

Inteligencia - DGI)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

8 July 1964

17

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. Juine - 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

*TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-

gence Service until April 1964:

Headquarters Comment•

The following information, as reported

a debriefing, includes a

description of the

General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de

Inteligencia - DGI),

a break-down of each of its

departments,

the functions of each department, a diagram (Chart A) of the

organization of the DGI,

and a map (Chart B) of the DGI com-

pound in Habana.

1.

2.

Introduction.

The General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de

Inteligercia - DGI) is the Cuban

external intelligence agancy,

charged with maintairing security, collecting information,

and promoting Cuban Government intelligence policies abroad.

ot the Ministry

of Interior (Ministerjo del Inte

rior, and was established

sometime in mid-1961.

It is con-

only with operations abroad.

The collection of

intelligence within Cuba, counterintelligence,

are the resporsibility

of the Department of State Security

(Departamento

de Seguridad del Estado - DSE).

The two agencies

independent but maintain liaison and coordination on cer-

tain matters.

The DGl, also krown as "M," or "M Department," is organized

under a director general and his deputy; its

components, are

a main headquarters with administrative and personnel offices,

eight departments, and

the director's office (ste organization

chart of page 11).

It is closely connected with Ramiro Valdes

lienendez, the Minister

of Interior,

and is also of continuing

interest to Fidel Castro, Raul Castro, and Ernesto "Che" Guevara.

3

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSEN

1

STATE

I DIA

ALLAY

I NAVY

T AIR

INSA

TaiN

I FBI

REPCISCLANT

CINCSO $

(Moro Brold distribution indicatod by "=-

INFORMATION REPORTE INFOR

MATION REPORT

TX-123

NO (19826-17

For meticion see Aracked Pass

•achi

003жінА

neitisins

0D:1:

5

4

3

2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

is i

.:..

.:

Haqr's Dissem

WH/COPS

WH/PO/A

WH/PO/B

WH/RO

WIL/SA/EOB

WHI/SA/JOB

KH/SA/R

WH/SA/CI

WH/1

WH/2

WII/3

WH/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

CI Staff

CI Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/II

EE/P

EE/C

EE/LIS

EE/CI

FE/PMI/I

FE:/ JKO/30

FE/ JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

1

5

5

5

20

1

1

for to his ent

pound ? freed fred proud goons

1

1

1

1

1

21

four foot

1

1

SECRET

SO FOR: DISSES

- la -

1

mand

24

NE/AA/LES

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/I

NE/5/P

SE/G/C&I

NE/R

NE/CI

WE/1

NE/2.

WE/3

WE/4

WE/5

WE/BC

WE/R

pand

7

4

1

1

1

fund foot pond

1

Field Dissem

.. -

SECRET

SO FORS DISSEM

---

## Page 3

• 3-

yates

located near the centoi of the block on 80th Street. and a

Lock

entrance with steel doors located directly through the

block on 78ch

street.

The main entrance is manned by guards

armed with POShA machineguns; the rear entrance is kopt locked

and is used only in emergencies. No pass or identilication is

required to enter the grounds.

7.

The headquarters compound (see diagram on page 15) contains all

the DGI offices excupt PINEIRO's home office,

the three opera

tional departnents, and the Special Schools Department, described

below.

The main buzlding. called & Building, is situated ncar.

the center of the compound but off the main axis between the

It houses most of the offices in its two stories and also

contains a canteen, public telephones, and a police radio for the

city and the Ministry of Interior.

There are no large assembly

roums; conferences are held in small rooms.

Within the compound,

separated from M Building by driveways and parking lots, are

several othor structures:

i .

A two-story building housing the Personnel Department on the .

first

floor and the Inspection Department on the second.

b.

Three one-story service buildings: a guard office with

sleeping quarters for 20 to 25 guards, a food-storage ware-

house, and a clothing-storage warehouse.

The guard office

ind the Personnel-Inspection building flank the main entrance

on 30th Street.

C .

A two-story building, in the angle of the grounds formed by

doth Street and 49th Avenue, housing the Technical Operational

Support Department.

Two of its sections, the Photographic

Laboratory and the Concealment Device Section, occupy indi-

vidual bualdings in the compound.

8. Gencral administration of the DEI is

where PINEIRO: deputy, (fnu) CHAIN.

handled from the ll Building.

pseudonym "Agusto," has

his office.

Busides acting as director general when PINEIRO is

away from Cuba. CHAIN is responsible specifically for management

of large expenditures, South American affairs, and the approval

of false passports for travelers.

lle signs.

in psoudonym, all

notices and circulars issued

to the direciorate.

lis sccretary

"Georgina."

CHAIN's office, through "Vidalira,"

distributes cable traffic to the DGI departments.

Incoming and

outgoing cable traffic and diplomatic pouch traffic are received

at this office from the Central Ciphering Service (Servicio

Central do Cifrados • SCC), which is a communal coding and de

coding service operated by the DSE.

CHAIN's office apparently

also acts as a recolving and distributing center for clandestine

radio traffie but does not itself send or receive radio messages;

the actual transmission

is possibly controlled by the Communist

building in the headquarters compound.

headed by pseudonym "Pelayo," which handles all maiters concerning

Stanismens edni"stiatty, (self. don hird" otis remotion.

SECRET

SO FORY DISSEN

---

## Page 4

14-00000

10.

11.

The Inspection Departrent, headed by pseudonym

"Darto," which is

responsible

for discipline in tho directorate and for investigas

tions of staff personnel, probably before hiring, has 10 to 12

Both department chieft are probably former members of

the DSE, and sone of the office staff are also former DSE members.

Soviet Advisors.

Attached to the DGI headquarteis is a group of Sovlet advisors,

who occupy offaces

in M Building.

Their presence and identities

are kept as secret as possible, even among the officers who work

with them, and they are known only by pseudonyms.

They have

especially close contacts with Manuel PINEIRO and CHAIN, and

with the Illogal Department, whose officers can consult directly

with thom at any time.

Ordinary desk officers in other depart

ments can consult the

Soviet advisors only at their offices in

Building, where no special security precautions are observed,

but they do not see much of them except when visiting the

Illegal Department when the advisors are working there.

The

Soviets can visit any department whenever they wish.

Information obtained by DGI agents abroad can be passed to the

Soviet advisors.'

The five known are the following:

"El Frances" (The Frenchnan), PINSIRO's personal advisor.

is apparently the chief Soviet advisor in Cuba.

an office in l Building and frequently visits PINEIRO'S

He was born between 1909 and 1914; is about five

feet seven inches tall and of medium build; has very grey

hair; has blue eyes with bags under them; and wears at all

tines gold-framed glasses with small-to-medium round lenses.

His Spanish is fairly good.

Ilo has a car assigned by the

Cuban government and drives it himself.

b.

A Soviet man, name unknown, Accompantes "El Frances." He

tall, is of medium to thin build,

weighing about 145 pounds, and is clean shaven.

An officer

who saw him frequently ot

DGI headquarters hever heard him

C.

"Juan," who shares an ll Building office with "El Frances"

principally in the Illegal Department,

consultant on Illegal operations, directs the recruitment

and handling of agents, arranges

their entry and cover, and

maintains files.

At ono timo he spent about six months in

Franco; the general. impression is that he was ther. as an

Illegal resident rather than in the Soviet Emhassy.

speaks excellent Spanish with very little accent and ap

parently has known the languago a long time.

He too has a

car assiened by the Cuban government and drives it hiaself.

do was born between 1919 and 1921 and is an activo, athletie

man, about six feet tall and weighing a husky 200 pounds,

with bie eyes.

Ho looks young, although his hair is grey,

as is the short-clippod mustacho he wears low on his lip.

d.

i Soviet wonan, name unknown, works in the Department of

rechnical Oparational Sunrort (li). She vas born hotweor

1929 and 1934,

1s 11va Sudi sevch no cigit Inchos tall, is

stout but not fat, has bluo eyes and ariost shoulder-longta

SECRET

NO TORY DISSEN

---

## Page 5

12.

13.

reddish brons halt.

She is daly and dowdy.

and a

sorior-style dress.

like a prasant's.

wearing low heels

= c.

Soviet man.

name unknoun. works on South Ancrican opera-

tions in the Illegal Departmont.

Operational Popartments.

Of the eight departments making up the headquarters.

three are

operational. four are

concerned with operational support or

traininy, and one is administrative.

The three operational de

partmonts are Legal Centers (Contros Legales - MS). Illegal

(LIckal), and National Liberation (Liboracion Sacional - LN);.

two wile formerly a single department, known as NA

(Intelligence).

All three departments handle operations abroad

for the purpose of collecting information

on the host country,

promoting Culan political aims, and conducting subversive ac-

Their operations are distinguished by iwo factors,

legal connortions and Communist Party-leftist group liaison.

The Departmon: of Legal Conters is responsible for operations

conducied through Cuban official missions in countries with which

Cuba has diploatic colations and has normally nothing to do with

illegal agenis.

The other two departments handle illegal agents,

both in countises with which Cuba has relations and in those with

which she has none.

The Illeml Department has no connection

with Communis! Parties or organized leftist groups abroad; the

Libration

Department deals mainly

with such parties

and groups; th Department of Legal Centers

may work with them

All three departments are organized in geo-

giaphical divisions

with arca

desks for each country within

their respoctive

fields or responsibility; there is thus some

overlapping

in dosk coverage.

The DGI.has

of overseas intelligence operations (as

distines fron

guestilla warfaro

operations covered

paragraphs 19 and 20):

legal field stations and illegal

The legal lield station exists in every country with which

has diploma:so rolations; its porsonnol are members of the local

Cuban diplorate, consular, or trade mission.

selected from all parts of the DGI organization; no distinction

example, between officers

Illegal Depart

the Sational Liberation Department, but each person

performs whatever duties

the local situation

station chiefs

report directly to PINEIRO. but

admintseration goes through other channels, as explained below.

Field stations

side, dopending on local objectives and

the quality of diplonatie relations.

In Soviet Bloc countries,

for example, told siacions

are usually small. with only

lars olficers, Kho have

no intollidence colloctor or similar

responsibilly but are charged principally wish aiding travelgrs

to Cuba and with liarson with the local intolligence service.

In countries miside the soviet Bloe. legal foold stations have

vardous resporisbilitica: in latin America, thear principal ac-

treads are promotion and dretion coer lorent medde

ind arrangrats for currralla vartare.

madlon la 1n Moodco, shich to amportant because 18 is a major

ramale poant top both poponed and maloriale, and because it

1s i conded point lor any lottied oranddadaon of any country

uhich has representaddoes on Mexico, Malorial dor other litan

NO FOIS DISSES

---

## Page 6

- 6 -

14.

15.

16.

17.

merican countries usually foes first to lexico and is forwarded

from there.ll

Mexico 1s also a recing place for operations of

ficers from Cuba and arens fron. Soniral and South Arerica:

Canada similarly series as a mortine place for agonts from

the

Inited States.

Legal fiold stations do not normally deal with

illegal agents except in a great crergency.

In all legal field stations. the DGI representative is charged

keeping track of. checking. and reporting on the political

activities of the other mombers of the mission to which he is

DGI officers also assist with the political classes

and lectures held periodically for members of the mission. but

task shared by all mission members and is not assigned

to any officer specifically.

Physical security, such as techni

cal examination of Cuban premises for audio surveillance devices.

is not a DGI resporsibility; it is perfcined by the DSE.

In countries with which Cuba does not have diplomatic relations.

DGI activities are handled by agents stationed permanently in

the country as illegal agents or as members of Communist Parties

and leftist groups.

Their assignments are sabotage. subversion,

selection and training

of guerrilla warfare candidates and other

agents or groups in Latin America primarily.

The DGI regards

Venezuela as the countries in

which its operations

have been most successful.

Cuba or from an adjacent country. leld operations are run from.

The Department of Legal Contairs (Drpartamento Centros Legales -

The IS departmen: is headed by Pedro FARINAS Diaz. pseu-

donym "Otoniel." and has a staff of 15 to 20 persons.

Its

offices are not in the & Building compound. but in a

building

at the corner of Sist Avenus and Gain Street in the Jarianao

suburb of Habana.

The department is in charge of the field

stations. known

as legal centers.

in each country with which

Cuba

has diplomatic

relations

O1"

where

she maintains cormercial

missions.

Its personnel are not assigned abroad as a rule:

they act as

the service group a? headquarters

for field person-

nel drawn from any part

of the DGI.

Field station chiefs, as

noted above. report directly to PINEIRO; the

NS Department takes

care of all

paper work for

the field stations, including photo-

graphing

incoming

and outgoing docurents; maintaining files of

field correspondence: and handling coded radio communications.

Coded radio messages

prepared by desk officers are photographed

and sent to the field

on microfilm and messages on microfilm

received from the field are decoded and passed to the proper

department: MS

does

not do the decoding itself.

The department

does not have its our radio station.

not run any agents

abroad; it

does. however.

assign dead drops and explain their

use to field agents. costly those of the Illegal Department.

The Illcgal Department (Dopartamento Ilcgal). The deparement is

headed by pseudonym

"who direets operations rather than

dealing directly with ajents: has ceputy is Santiago PEREL, pseu-

dunym "Rolo."

The stafi of about 20 persons is responsible for

handling "illegal" agent.. that as. agents of all nationalities

uhrso activines ana connections with Cuba are secret.

partment recrults the agent: arranges for his training. means

ut clandestino communication. and travel to his assigned area:

and thereafter aircris, supports. and maintains communscation

SCRET

10 FORS DISSEM

---

## Page 7

14-00000

18.

19.

with him throughout his active tenure.

I: does not deal with

members of Cormunist Parties

or leftist organizations.

persons in contact with official Cuban personrel abroad. who are

the responsibilities of other departments; the mechantes of com-

munication are also handled elseshere.

Agents are stationed in

all countries where Cuba is interested in

collecting information,

penetrating the government. or conducting subversive operations,

and Contral and South America.

The department has no

African countries, and no agents are known

the United States. 13

Agents once trained usually remain perma-

nently abroad.

If they are in anarea where there

is a legal

field statiou. they do not normally have any contact with its

The Illegal Department is divided into three

ma in geographical

sections, each

subdivided into country desks, as follows:

a. Section A. Europe, chief unknown; under this section there

are desks for all countries.

b.

Section B. Central Anerica, chief Ramon Cesa - CUENCA Montoto

(no pseudonym), who was formerly stationed in Mexico.

deputy is pseudonym

Country desks include Costa

Rica, Doninican Republic,

Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,

and El Salvador.

Section personnel in-

cluded officers Fernando PASCUAL Perez, pseudonym

Saul GONZALEZ, pseudonym "Denis"; Gustavo (lnu). pseudonym

"Lino": Paulino (lnu),

"Nauricio"; Rafael GUZMAN,

oseudonym "Rolando"; (fnu) RELOBA, pseudonym

"Wilfredo";

apprentices (practicantes) Miguel Angel (lnu), pseudonym

"Miguel"; Onar (Inu), pseudonym "Oscar"; Raul GOYZALEZ,

pseudonym "Olexis"; ard Francisco (lau), pseudonym "Tino."

Their desk assignments were not known.

Sertion C. South America, chief unknown.

clude Argentina. Bolivia, Brazil, Chile. Colombia, Ecuador,

Paraguay. Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, and

officers in the section were pseudonym "Ulises." formerly

perhaps in Chile, and pseudonym "Juan Carlos," possibly

formerly in Peru.

Both were returned to Cuba for discipli-

nary reasons: they may have been

assfyned to the desks for

the countries where they had served.

The National Liberation Department (Departamento de Liberacion

Nacional - 15,.

The department has no chief; officers wishing

advice consult Major Guillermo JINENEZ, pseudonym

"Javier," who

is head of the Contral Amorican Section of

in his absence, yo directly to Manuel PINEIRO or his deputy,

The depariment offices occupy two two-story buildings at

6610 and 6612

Tih Avenue, between 66th and 70th Streets, in the

Ampliarion de Alrendares soction of the Miramar district of

which is one of the largest in the DoI.

is responsible for promotion and direction of revolutionary ac-

tivito. ancluding sucrrilla wartare.

It acts mostly ir coopera-

tion with Communist Parties or organized leftist groups, but

conducts sure operations unilatorally without local coordination.

Among its artivities are the rocruitment, arrangement of travel

to and from Cula and training in Cuba.

and the direction and

support of cuerrilla fighters in its target countries.

SECRET

NO FORS DISSEN

---

## Page 8

20.

10

Cuba is not concerned with resolutions in Furopean. Asian. or

African

countries. at concenirates mostly on Lain teerican

goveinnents, except those that maintain diplonatic relations

with cula..

Although the department has ro African interests,

Zanzibaris were trained in Cuba: the arrangements were handled

outside the DGI by Fidel CASTRO himself. with the participation

of Manuel PINEIRO.

In addition to its guerrilla work. the

department. without the knowledge of the Communis! Parties or

groups

with which it cooperates.

recruits and arranges training

of agents to collect

information in the taiget couniries.

can-

didates for such intelligonce agents are guerrilla carfare

trainees, or persons proposed by the

operational support depart-

ments (10 Department and the BC Section of the SI Department

see below).

The Li Department is divided into three sections.

one support

and administrative, the other to geographical with country

desks.

a .

Central Processing Section (Tramites), headed by Felix

Rafael (lnu), pseudonym

"Alberto." Is the administrative

office for the IN Departmeat and the only office in the DGI

handling travel arrangements.

It plans and arranges travel

for DGI staff officers of all departments, agents. and

furnishes operational funds for travel. and makes

the actual travel reservations and provides plare tickets

for travelers.

obtains passports in false names for

Cuban staff members, issues Cuban passports in false names

to agents, and obtains visas from the Czechoslovakian Embassy.

In agent travel, it works closely with the Cuban institute

of Friendship with Peoples (Instituto Cubano del Inistad con

los Pueblos - ICAP?, which atranges

sene aspects of travel

for trainces.

The section chief has his office in the LN

Department but works mainly

from the DGI headquarters in N

Building; his wiie,

(lau), pseudonym "Elisa." is a

the LN Department.

The section staff consists of

administration chief Eulogio POVS. pseudonym "Eloy"; his

assistant, pseudonym

"Henry": an office clerk, Carmen

CARRACEDO,

pseudonym "Mercedes": uo drivers. Juan PEREZ,

pseudonym "Raul,

"and pseudonym "Manuel"; and Felix Rafael's

secretary, pseudonym

ESCALANTE, pseudonyn "CarD "and assistant, Draco or Draque

b.

Central American Soction (Soccion Cintral) is supervised by

Najor Guillermo JIMENEZ. who

Is head of the Department of

Information Services (Sl) ard acts as advisor to the

The section organizes and directs guerrilla

activities in the Contral Amoricar aml Caribbean countries.

Its case officers trequenily travel to leir operational areas

to direct actarities and arrange for funds, arms supplies.

and othor support to agonte: agent mectanys are often held

in a third country, especially lexico.

Operations are handled

un i caso basis, cach case band a separate project starting

with solection and training of agents and

contanuing through

rucrrilla vardare action in

the larger area:

The section

has the lollowing area docks:

(1)

Conta Plea, Headed by Quear GARCIA Manzano, Preudonym

"Drlando."

SECRIT

NO FORS DISSEN

---

## Page 9

(2)

Dominican Repubiic. Maded by Rubrrto Lazaro

SANTIESTEBAN

Casanova

• pseudonym

"Rafael."

who was

formerly at the United intsons in sew York and was

arrested for attemptlie sabotage.

(3)

"Lorenzo.

assisted by an apprentict.

As noted abuse, the Guatemalan operations

are considered among the most successful in Central

America.

(4)

Haiti, headed by Andreg ARVO%$'Ramos, pseudonym "Ernesto, "

Tormurly commercial attaché in Merico

but not likely to

receive another field assignment because of problems

during

his service there.

(5)

Honduras, headed by Felix SLAREZ, pseudonya "Santiesteban:"

(6)

Nicaragua.

(7) Panama, headed by fernando RAVELO, Pseudonym "Fermin."

(8)

El Salvador.

c. South America Section (Seccamn Sur) has no regular chief, but

the DGI deputy, CHAIN,

dirents its activities.

It deals with

guerrilla activities in South American countries. There are

desks for:

(1) Argentina, headed by Obeste VALERA.

(2) British Guiana,

assisted by

"Rudy."

headed Is (inu) GIES, pseudonym "GIl,"

apprent tues. pseudonyms

formerly stationed in boliria.

unlikely

to receive another for

an assignment because of difficulties in the field

(-1)

Ecuador, headed by pseidonym "Julio."

(5) Paraguay, headed by pseudonym "Salvano."

(6) Peru, headed by (inu) Jir, pseudonyn "Jordan," assisted

by an apprentice, pseuil...ym

"Berna be."

(7) V'enczuela, honded by Alfredo ILMEIDA Garcia. pseudonym

"Aranja."

with Cuba and vas

who was in trinzuela when it broke relations

CoVerY

lited insolved in an attrapted re-

of documents fion plane crash in Peru, which

Hey assistants are

18 s

denezuelan operatone the most successful in south

The DGI considers

Setter

S0 FORS 195514

---

## Page 10

14-00000

0 60h0110.96N

• 0 =

21.

22.

23.

Operational Support Departments.

The operational suonort departments of the DGI are Technical

Operational Support (NI). Illegal Conters (10). Special Schools

(EE). and Information Services

They handle such functions

as spotting prospective agents. providing operational information.

training both intelligence agents and guerrillas. providing clan-

destine communications between headquarters and agents in the

The Department of Illegal Centers (Departamento Centros Ilegales - .

not, as its name implies, concerned

opcration of illoyal field stations. but is an information col

lection and agent candidate spotting department.

major responsibilities:

collection of information from

visiting Cuba; assessment of

foreigners

visiting foreigners for candidates

for intelligence agents; and screening of letters from abroad

volunteering information, both to extract any useful data and to

assess the writers

as possible candidates

for intelligence use.

Among visiting

foreigners, the M0 Department does not

self with diplomats,

they are left to the DSE, nor with

who are established residents of Cuba. who are the responsibility

of the Colonial Bureau (sce below).

In debriefing foreign visi-

tors, the department often works through ICAP. which makes arrange

ments for many visits to Cuba: in many instances, the visitors

supply information unwittingly and are never aware that they are

in contact with Cuban intelligence.

The NO Department does not

itself recruit agents; it only watches for, screens, and evaluates

foreign contacts as agent candidates.

If the persons it selects

are members of a Communist Party or leftist organization, they

are referred to the LY Dopartment: if they are not members of

they are roferred to the Illerai Department; one

actual recruiting.

The Department of Special Schools (Departamento Escuelas

Especiales - EE).

This department is responsible

in guerrilla warfare and related subjects.

It is headed by Luis

PIREZ, pseudonym

"Bruno Diaz,

"who is a DGI officer but also a

captain in the Cuban Army.

He has a deputy.

"Aristides": an office assistant, pseudonym

pseudonym

"Armando"; and a

courier. pseudonym

"Garcia."

The department staff, numbering

is made up entirely

of Cuban Army personnel on

indefinite assignment

to the DGI; they are directed by the DGI

but continue to

be paid by the Army.

which also provides all sup-

port for the department.

office of the EE Department,

which is mainly administrative.

residence at 178th Street

and and 31st Avenue. telephones 21-8126 and 21-8262,5

Barandilla section of the Marianao suburb of Habana.

is conducted at permanent school sites in Habana (none outside).

including guerrilla warfare schools at 310 Slst Avenue. in the

Country Club district, and three in the darianno suburb: onc

in the westorn part of the Arroyo Arenas section, one in the

western part of the San Agustin section. and one in the arca

bounded by 211th and 226th Streets and ith and l5th Arenues in

the Biltmore section.

In addition there are technical training

schools (Escuolas Entronamiento Teenieo) on East Street between

Palque and 37th Streets in the Alturas del Vodado section of

where fenozuolans and Salvadorans have been trained.

and on 20ch Street between lot and 3rd frenues in the Miramar

SECRET

NO FORS DISSEN

---

## Page 11

24.

25.

-11-

The schools give military courses

of all types. lasting

three to six months, depending on the subject matter: all

instrue-

tors are: Cuban Army

personnel.

are trained in the

• schools. only foreigners: these are kope separate by nationality.

students aro observed and assessed for possible

use as intelligence agents: those selected receive additional

individual training from the MI Dupartment.

The Departmont of Technical Operational Support (MI).

no Spanish title, only M.

This department

basically re-

sponsible for training individual intelligence agents and pro-

viding them terhnical operational support such as

clandestine

communications systems. false documents, etc.; it also provides

technital support to DGI staff menene." who was

The department chief is

Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, 'pseudonym

formerly the sec

retary of Ramiro VALDES.

There are

about 80 employees, including

a main

office

staff consisting of a secretary, pseudonym

"Mayra";

two assistants. pseudonyms "Carmen" and "Maria Antonia

": and an

administrative officer; pseudonym

"Victor."

The MI Department

receives requests for training or support from the operational

departments; gives the training or provides or arranges

for the

support outside the operational department framework; and con-

tinues to process technical communications for the departments

after the agents have gone into the field.

It has, however,

nothing to do with the direction of agents; it is only a training

and support mechanisn.

The MI Department also does not supply

equipment, for example, for clandestine radio communication,

but tells agents

what to procure and lets them make their own

purchases in their home countries with funds supplied by the

operational department directing

As the main technical

department of the DGI, MI has most of the directorate's tech-

nical equipment, which it services and repairs in its own es

tablishment. the buildings within the " Building compound.

All

kinds of professional technicians

and semi-skilled laborers are

available for such duties; they are all Cubans.

The MI Depariment has five scetions, with the

following

responsibilities:

a .

Chemical laboratory (Laboratorio Quimico - LQ). LQ, which

is headed by pscudonym

"Contreras,

provides chemical

secret writing systems and any other type of

communications

or operational support requiring chemical action or analysis.

Although it supplies agents the systems or devices, it does

not train agents.

forwards the material to the

section, which

inscructs the agent.

LO also services

messages in secret writing for the operational departments.

headed by pscudonym

"Beltran.

It takes photographs for operational

dorument= such as false passports and identity cards and

pro pares both photographs and pages of documents where changes

In addition, it provides microdo: and microfilm

systems for clandestine communications and processes in-

coming and out oing microdot and microfilm messages.

Terhnical Training Section. (Seccion Tecnica - ST).

The chief.

15 aliu an instructor, is psoudonym

"Terbaldo. " The

SECRET

SO FORS DISSEN

---

## Page 12

14-00000

du inha Ulast

- 12 -

26.

person in charge of

"Aldo, „radio training, also a radio instructor,

The ST Scotion is responsible for

training agents in any tochnical field. such as communica-

tion by secret writing, microdot or microfilm. radio sending

and receiving. codes. etc.

The section has a

station but does not handle actual radio communications to

and from agents in the field.

d. Travel and Passport Scetion (Via lionssaporte). The section

has only one officer, pseudonym

who provides travel

and other documents for all porsonnel of the directorate,

agents and staff, such as extra Cuban passports, forged pass-

ports of other countries, other identification documents,

and other necessary papers.

He makes false entries in pass-

ports, such as arrival and

departure stamps for points out-

side Cuba.

e.

Concealment Device Section (Seccion Embutido - EMB).

"The ElB Section

for providing any sort of concealment device required for

agent activities, especially those permitting the agent to

carry with him on his travels instructions, information, or

small objects so that they are not discovered in customs or

other cxamination. It also provides concealment devices for

the forwarding of microfilm or other clandestine materials.

Department of Information Services (Departamento Servicios de

Informacion

The ST Department is

headed by Major Guillermo

JIMENEZ, pseudonym "Javier," the third most important person in

(aftei PINEIRO and

CHAIN), who also directs some of the

LN Department operational activities.

The department is responsi-

collecting information and maintaining up-to-date records

of operational

information

in every field affecting the security

of Cuba. It has three sections:

a .

Operational Information Section (Seccion Informacion

The section.

which has about 12 members,

collects all information necessary for placing and maintaining

an agent in a foreign country.

such as the travel and identity

documents required and their dates of validity, data

legal and illegal travel of staff personnel and agents. maps

of infiltration and exfiltration routes for operational arcas,

and up-to-date information on the gencral situation in each

country where the DGI operates or plans to operate.

operational and other departments evaluate information they

acquire and send to the IO Section of the SI Department what-

ever they think useful; the IO Section issues no formal re-

quirements.

Most of the information comes from the Illegal

and L Departments, but the iS Department may also suppl

information.

The 10 Section sometimes debriefs staff members

returning from foreign tours or short trips for operational

information or data on foreign governmentsit has one other

but it does not

debriel agent trainees arriving in Cuba.

function. the publication of false information on people

countries.

One of its members is a translator. Antonio

CARCEDO Ferrer, pseudonym "Andres."

b.

Colonial Burcau (Buro Colonial - BC), formerly called the

MOI Section.

The BC is responsible for assessing foreign

SECRET

: NO FOR DISSEM

---

## Page 13

14-00000

- 13

27.

residents in Cuba as potential agent candidates: like the

NO Department, It does not recruit agents

itself but merely

them to the proper operational department.

veillance of foreigners in Cuba and

observation and penetra-

tion of hostile groups is not part of the BC responsibility.

but is a function of the DSE.

The Map Section (Seccion Cartografia).

With about 10 members,

and maintains maps of all areas in which the DGI

interest, including country maps, town plans, and

special regional maps.

General Administration Department.

The General Administration Department (Departamento Administra-

cion General) is headed by pseudonym

of 15 to 20

persons, including pseudonym

"Joaquin" and has handles

"Sergio."

administration of all aspects.of the DGi except

staff personnel

matters, which are the responsibility of the Personnel and In-

spection Departments. The department also controls workshops

for the maintenance and repair of DGI equipment, principally

vehicles; it does not work on the machines used by the technical

which attend to their own maintenance and servicing.

In addition.to its ovcrall administration office,

the department

one for each of the departments except EE:

MS, MO,

Illegal,

sections'IN, and SI, to take care of their administration.

SECRET

NO FORN

DISSEM

---

## Page 14

4-0000

center mina

415% 621"

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 14 -

OHGAN: ZATION DE TIE GENEHAL DIESCTONATE OF INTELLIGENCE

(DIRECCION GENERAL DE INTELIGERCIA - DOI)

- And dune d', 10-00 de 10)

laren hat as res.

•S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a en Pino

---

## Page 15

1o got z55eH

=i5=

GENERAL LRECICARE CO ITELLIGENCS

¡ IIREECION CENERAL DE INTELLIGENCIS - DGI)

Located in tra Larrasabel Section, Marianso, Esbara

80ch Street

Yair. Estrance ( pardod)

000

DO

• Grass

2

M Fullding

IGI 59S

4

51st AVENUE

0500

Farking

49th AVENUE

Grass

7

Trees

BOOC0GE

78th Strect

D

foar Entranco (Lest locied) Tiall

GUARD HOUSE AND LESSO

ITORY.

3.

PERSCHZI KID NSTEGTICN IEPARTIENES

PECCOCRAPHIC LASCRACORY (LE SECRICH CA MI)

5.

CLEARING STORAGE WAREHOUSE

6.

FOLD SIORAGE WAREHOUSE

7.

EX3, CONCEALISNT DEVICE SECTION OF MI.

KI DEPARTIERO (ALL SECTIONS ELT LE AID 213).

NO FORM DISSSH

---

## Page 16

14-00000

- 17 -

11.

12.

13.

North America: Canada.

is also a Cuban Mission to tie

United Jations in fes York.

Central America and Caribbean:

Mexico and

South America:

Chile, Cruguay, and British Gulana (a

trade mission).

which had maintained

relations with

Cub until mid-das 1964, broke.

following the ousting of GOLLART and the

change of government in Auill 1964.

The only regular air connection between Cuba and the Westero

Hemisphere is the

schedule maintained by the official Cuban air

line, Cubana (Empresa Consolidada Cubana de Iviacion - ECCA),

two or three times a reek to Mexico.

There are also charter

flights to Canada, but they are principally for cargo.

Agent activities in Latin America will be discussed in subse-

quent reports.

Source knew almost nothing about operations in Puerto Rico,

Canada, and at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New

York.

14.

Relations between Cuba and Peru were broken in 1960.

SECREP

NO FORS DISSE

---

## Page 17

14-00000

- 16 -

SECRET

NO FORS DISSIM

---

## Page 18

NO FOR MISSEN

-?.

3.

4.

5.

The Director' Office

The director senoral of the Dot as Manuel PINEIRO Losada, known

as "Red Beard" (Barla Roja).

Ho in closely associated with

Ramiro VALDES, Iu whon ho has direct access at any time; he is

required to report regularly to Fidel CASTPO and to coordinate

all expenditures of large sums; and he also has direct

contact with GLEVARA.

Paul CASTRO often visits PINEIRO's office;

his principal interest appears to be the guerrilla schools (see

below), but he may have others in the DGI.

PINEIRO also handled

the principal contacts with the Soviet advisors of the DGI.

is handled through a deputy. but he also

has direct contact as desired with departmont chiefs and lower

level personnel: chiefs

stations report directly to him,

although other field-station business is handled through the

departmont: responsible for field work.

PIXEIRO himself has

trained some inportant agents

in field work ard

acted as their handling officer.

ias subsequently

PINEIRO has his office in his residence at Alst Avenue and

18th Street in the Miramar district of Habana.

There he keeps

functional files of everything

the DGI; other files

from individual sections are brought to him for review

returned to the department o section

There is a daily courici service between his house and the DGI

headquarters.

The house has at least

two separate telephones.

one porsonal and one official. the latter providing direct com-

munication with all

numbers is 20-125 government agencies.

One of the telephone

The outside ertrance of the house always

has two guards

in olive-ercon uniforms; they are probably from

In addition. PINEIRO has a bodyguard staff of six. also

probably fron

then are alvays with him on 21-

hour shifts: one acts as chauffeur when he goes out. while the

He keeps

three cars, all 1961

Oldsmobiles..one blue, one beige. and

In his home office PINEIRO has an aide, pseudonym "Castor, "6

handles in? office work but does

not attend private interviews.

in the office and does

outside the office.

Whon PINEIRO travels abroad.

"Castor'" ac-

companies him, as for example on his visi: to Moscow in April

At the main DGI hoadquarters. PlYtiRO also has a secre

tary, pseudonym "Vidalina."

clerk-typist, pseudonym

"Zornida": they occupy desks

executive

deputy chief but work strictly for PISEIPO.

"Vidalina" handles

all incoming and outgoing correspondence and cable traffic and

distributes la, both within Def headquarters and abroad.

DGI Ma in Heidguarters.

The main headquarters of the direcionte is known as "Department

S" Of the Monisery of Intoriot, but very los people knot any

thing about 10 or and don deare on its existence.

It occupies

a house and grounds shirt here formerly the proporti of ino GoNez

It cosers a anole city block bounded. by doth and

51al Avenur and 7a8h and soth Sirries In the larrazabal Seedlen

•l the Moreonan mburb od Malona. Tho block in a compound sur.

18 inade. There are dad entrancer a main entranoe with woodden

. 580H1.0

SO FOR: DISHEN

---

