# 104-10182-10044

## Page 1

104-10182-10044

1012

Repore No: 2ii-li5? Local Pile No:

Noo of Enclosures:

- No. or Pares: -2

Report Made By: GorEliGitasiy

Distribution:

Ву сору во:

vashineton

Files

sabassy

Orally

to:

Source Стуролук: L5р:121-7

References: TE:-1568 115-4-16 - 5a.

Source, Operatioral Data, and Corrents:

0r

Io Source EJGARA-7 1s of th

opinion that MISD! is very probably an

intolligence arent und that he in under direction of some service.

There is no apparent reason for his rent inter.st in the Yuroslav

colory in Santingo, ror can [FuryA-? determine the source of aLsO!'s

a parent large inconso.

Dospite the fact that nuch of that inliol says is patently rubbish and

although it was reportod in IC5-1558 that ho :as beliotod to bo mentally

111, Eliari? has teen instructod to maintain contact with 'ILSO! for the

purposo lof discoverir- :hat his notoctirs are and by mon he is directed.

Any tracos of "ILSO: 1t live: vertors moull le of assistance to tis station

in porsueing tiis incestiation.

Hen

111001 and rive

503-59513)

Classificallor

Fi COPYi

---

## Page 2

Subject: Carlos John WIl. ON

110-23

Repors No:

Dece of intormation:

pate

TCS-1959

Prior 6 October 1952

6 Detéber: 1952

7 Detöber 2952

Place Acquired:

Evaluntios: B-}

'Source: Person with ilide Contects in Social and Dupineis Cln

I. Carlos Johni wILSON, an Engithum by lures?

citizer, as previously furoried.

pilot and veteran or

attention of te Frillth ei

bein; tuice warned by the Chilean authorites to cease his masquerading

or leave the country. According to source, WiLSON. bas/not taken the

warnings very seriously, because he still openly telks of his excloits

as an RiF pilot over Germany. He also daims that at the close of the war

forces against FRANCO. He states that he arrived in Santlago about fire

2. WILSON 1s Violently arti-U/S and constantly condemns-lenkee imperialism;

blaring the United States for the ills of the world as well as for his own

personal set backe.

WILSON states that ingland and france wild eventually

get together with

Soviet R. ssia to form a pact aimed at the complete

destructin of the Unitod States. He elains to be an authority on the Balkanag

and a great supporter of TITO whom he stetes is the only person cpable: ol

maintaining peace in that part of the world.

TITO, "ILSON states, will

in tire line up the entire Balkan area with England and france to assiet

Russia in crushing the United States.

3. WILSON evinces a great deal of interest in the Yugoslav Colony in Santiago and

recently dro ped in at the Ciab Ruso on a large celebration given by the

Serbo Ortodox: Soclety.

He becare quite drunk and so abusive of the U. S.

that he was told to quiet down or latve. lie confidod to source on tbis

occasion tbut he sa in an intelligence service, implying that it wa: tie

British Intelligence. WILSO: has an office on Calse Agustinas 11ll, Office

418, telephone 83888, Casilla 863.

On the door to this office appear, tha

*CINORa, Corrercial Information".

It is said that his office is

usually ful of Chileans, all of whom anpear

to be rabid Ibañistas and that

the talk centers around tha time wien IBA' iZ wiil take office and throw out

tha U. so irperialists. wILSON's principai businegs consists in trading

in copper, lead and sulfur, a business which be states is Impeded by United

States cormercial espionage. According to wilsoll, all requests for imorts

aida foros of cheerler doron to vances Goscapo desdqua: ters on ike

However, mIli! new has a secret deal

in Antofagasta tinerein he pians to sils. 15,00 cons of suliur to liolland.

Classification

100 1888 88-80

Удр,

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TOS 1959

4o WILSON mintains elose contects with an indivlaul identified as Heriberto

Sprinwaller LiNIUNE, also described as bitterly anti- U. So

FINICE is

allegea to hava studied to the united states belues 1222 and 1930% He

Later became a colonel 10:

the United States

It 19

reuorted that he snont & great dont of E

Thiso liter and he is closaly

Iwolved with hilsoN 1s his so cabled consr.

clai deutan

wiison 19 described as betes very intelalgenty estime indivell inforned

on current events.

He is extremely sociable, friendly, a very heavy.

drinker and a free spender. The physical description furnished by source

1s aở Follows:

C. 1914.

38 years old

Hedi win

Documentation:

Long,

large nose, spell slightly

protruding ears; ruddy complexiong

small mistactio; wears glassess:

UN Presa Pasy Noo RaL desid ln Santiago.

International police pass authoriaing

hin to enter Los. Carrillos airport at

ary time.

961-70397

---

