# 104-10186-10248

## Page 1

104-10186-10248

"INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

IL CAC

SECRET

NO FOREIG DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Jose Raul VIERA Linares

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/01208-54

DATE DISTE : IG

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

DÄTE OF 1964

INFa

PLACE & Washington,

D. C

DATE ACOSeptember: 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS ES UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE CRADINGS ARE DEFIMITIVE. APPRAISAI OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE,

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Readquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the

individuals

mestioned in

the personality reports without

first checking nith this Agency.

Identified a photograph of Jose Raul VIERA Linares,

ind said that he is the dest officer for

colomhin In the Seccior: sur (South American Section) of the

Departamento de Liberrcion Nacional (The National Liberation

Department - LY) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directoraté of Intelligence - DGI). VIERA was a DGI

officer stationed la Bolivia,

3/08

Headquarters Coments

A usually rellable source, on 24 February 1961, reported that

Jose Raul VIERA Linares, borr on 20 April 1910 in Clenfuegos,

Cuba, arrived in Madrid

from Mexico-Habana on 19 February 1961,

for a position 1o the Cuban Embassy in Madrid.

Cuban Diplomatic passport number 28,

He was residing at the Hotel Rosalla de

Castro in Madrid.

2.

In a document dated 3 July 1961, it was reported that the

Bollvian Foreign Ministry announced on 23 June 1961, that it

had asked the Cuban Foreign Ministry to recall their Cuban

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DtA

ARMY

INav

TAIR

M45A

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO # I&NS

(Nore: Frold daributico indecored by "=".)

FINFORMATION REPORT

1 OCE

FBI 2

NFORM

TION REPORT

2. CLiRsid

IMI/SA/R

JU/SA/CL 14:

BIDLAX

31a

In MAS

TOTAL EL/SA 7)1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RIDI

41813286

LaX-1679

14-0981

SO PROJECT (AYYUG/1)

CSC1-16/01208-64

COUROIRATINN

LE

2003

LD: sak

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CSCI-316/01208-64

Charge d' Affaires because he had Interferred in Bolivian domestle

affairs.

The Cuban Foreign Ministry apologized and sald they wouit

withdraw him. In the same message provisional accreditation was

asked for Jose Raul VIERA Linares for the position of Charge

d' Affaires

¡in Bolivia.

On 24 June 1961, VIERA arrived in la Pes

from Santiago, Chile, where he was first Secretaryn

Embassy.

6151n

It was also stated that VIERA was born M

his first diplomatic post was Santiago, and that he was & voluntary.

teacher in Cuba prior to entering the diplomatic service.

3:

A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 15 March 1963,00

that he met Raul Jose VIERA Linares, a Cuban diplomat assigned to

La Paz, In Santlago about 21 February 1963.

VIERA is married to

Maria Cecilla BERMUDEZ de Viera and they have an infant daughter,

Isabel VIERA Bermudez.

4. A report dated 20 March 1963 gave the following information on

Jose Raul VIERA Linares:

VIERA replaced Mauro GARCIA Triana as Interim Charge of the

Cuban Embassy in La Paz in late June 1961•

He held this position

until the arrival of Ramon AJA Castro on 13 March 1962.

untested source said that AJA severely criticized VIERA after

his arrival and relegated VIERA to Cultural Affairs officer,

a relatively low position.

Another untested source said that

VIERA has been meeting Cuban couriers at the airport which

would seen to indicate that VIERA has not climbed back'up Into

the hierarchy of the Cuban Embassy.

5.

A report dated 15 October 1963,

stated that Jose Raul VIERA Linares

ins being expelled from la Puz for attempting to get information

from the Bolivian Foreign Office by clandestine meaus. VIERA waS

6. An

expected to leave la puz by is october 1963.

travel manifest revealed that Raul Jose VIERA, his wife,

Maria VIERA Cogilla, and his daughter, Isabel VIERA Beatriz, went

to llabana from Mexico City on 14 October 1963.

SECRET

NO FORFICI

DISSEM

---

