# 104-10121-10342

## Page 1

104-10121-10342

SECRET

EYES ONLY

Background Use Orly

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu

1.

Robert A. Maheu was born on 30 October 1917 in

Waterville, Maine.

He graduated from Holy Cross College,

Norcester®

Massachusetts in 1940. He is married and has

four children®

20

He was employed as a Special Agent with the

Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1940 to 1947. Upon

resigning from the Bureau a venture into private enter-

prise culminated in bankruptcy in 1952.

Subsequent to

his bankruptcy, he was employed as Special Assistant to

the Administrator, Smart Business Administration with the

specific duty of Director of Security.

In february 1954.

he was forced to resign for political reasons from this

position.

He then established his own investigative

organization known as Robert A. Maheu Associates, and

rented desk space in a suite occupied by Carmine

S. Bellino,

& former Bureau Agent, Certified Publie Accountant, and

currently employed on Capitol Hill with one of. the Congres-

sional Connittees.

3.

Mr. Maheu's organization successfully handled a

number of prestige accounts, including Niarchos, Schenley

ultimately Howard Hughes.

Although he has main-

tained offices in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, most

recently he resided in Las Vegas, Nevada.

4. He was initially recruited by the Office of Secu-

rity in 1954 and granted a Covert Security Approval on 30

August 1954. He performed many sensitive assignments for

the Office of Security, and also accepted assignments from

elements of the predecessor of the Deputy Director for

Operations.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY: 061142

EYES CHLY

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

St CKLI

EYES

ONLY

RETUANTO GLA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

5.

Some of those assignments included the

following:

A.

The procurement of feminine companionship

об

during an official State visit

tO

this country during

the period 16 March

M(1959 through 18 April 195909 (See attached

wab I--taken from "Family

Jewels" memoran-

dum dated 16 May 1973)

B.

Johnny Rosell1

The use of a member of the Mafia in an

attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro,

initiated in August 1960.

(See attached

Tab 2--taken fron "Family Jewels" memoran-

dun dated 16 May 1973)

C.

Cover

Various officers of the Clandestine Service

not with Nr. Mahou over the years from 1954

to 1970 to determine the feasibility of using

his firm for non-official cover purposes.

Actual cover uses were provided for one officer

in Mr. Maheu's Washington Office from September

1964 to June 1966, and another officer used the

cover of Maheu Associates representatives in

from 1 August 1968 through

31 December 1970. (See attached Tab 3--Director

of Security Memorandum to the Director of Central

Intelligence, dated 20 January 1971)

6.

No contact has been made with Mr. Maheu since the

termination of the

above cover arrangement.

3 ALIS

EYES ONLY

SECRET

2

---

