# 104-10182-10075

## Page 1

104-10182-10075

SEGRET

ii, :

o....i...

iio:

Ca 19 July 1568, andesoloned nas ablo (chrout ile comom

rodele:8a: no lift thie USE! lasthay. Velarla a pante:

In Miss

ho kay a alle and laraliy la de U8, According to ti abaters

3o cocided lo sedeice vira te luared temi lie motona

[siarlion.

During mond of ils

sofiera in the sarlos Undoe, & iDater mao Hong vich hia Soviet

sue in-lam wide nnd ber terilly ts rendagrad sheri lu ludo

lat dr a starico ladoratory. Seboler sapesto to o tabelliguas.

1=7 0400.1a18.

but poliMially os lapologienity uneleticased

anchleleclo.

Epidti nucliar 1911 rerlas, Sortes clidereo 19878

araro dí the reriao, bul itto no doclia.

1 CHILLIAM

emacraira adi runomina lie Moso, s corpas. # vieto

mai strangly consrlona of baldiso la sad-Derusa propaguada

our: 14199953.

common in padre anas la lim Do, b! wilch hat leryuty

MANGIAATE ANTI.

Hosting med Case ware

TO (36n9.

#ong lho younger penercina lna elá passi pocastmon mila

CECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

12032r325 donn

Ti sono pearolo ente

11.4708:

90-7010

in Tipi el Mion Lemerlo

198122009

e99-s ios nal Taraillene"

• 82,4

318-45,

1:är7 ari sim

Ii 19I498%

9C.

Poke n7a arie asi la rend the

Nebrter

11.

i8:15229,719

In t51: 849990 1:-Be

tal tranter de un thiza tasa tore ong

ELIMINATA

12.

$.o.-a3.?

.:any né chese des ancona-rato,

= SEGRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

EE SECRET

Main, @ußerts1tr's1, est das lisa to ligee to gues on ta dori?.

ie.

He mas inarased with the

dd bes nie Joy erurt mind sintes leitng, bil sisite la stares

11 ha had eamarod willg up lis anpurtmens for piedento

Enó púria ap De 120s au1 al concern lor bis meches.

Nord Bewa

CA/PROF/&3

175 July 18)

CA, Tesgagnada/Guidescen

Dant toten

05ig l 1 - C/Pros, DC/cA/3

1 - Delictor Flle

s" Chabea

VIBR

---

## Page 4

SEGZET.

From!

Subjeet:

Refer ense:

Rudy Balaban

fed Bennett

(186 - Bab

aá hobates

I am surry to say that, because of a deadline I had to met, the mem

Bujoat, It mey be snoostoot on senio dotedle of lin history, able you

Bould of course ino all aboute is the story in the firat paragrant does

pot perfeutly matan what l. has told you, the feult 1s prolably mine, not

on Sovlet attitudes

Generally speaking, the infarmation lo gate does not sees to so 10

donsiotent ulth what I heve seen from other soureen, On the questlon

Of 80a1al Flation and religion, ila replo vas more "prosoviet then

inforuation to fran, other sourera. On the other hand, his ansvera on

ant1-Sen1t1e3 and bla Etatenine on drunkenness certainly did not enat

ary very favorable MIX light on Soviet doelety. One Interesting answer

inieh I negleated lo inaludo in ty demo Indieated the continuine exlatonde

of pro-stalin sentiment.

%. In the firet paragraph of the mono, I steto that la seemod "polltleeli

or Ideologleally unsophiatleated." It probably would have been more eoryeet

to sey that he was uinterested, or uncountted, rather than Expel unsophlati-

ested, though that ses also trie. Such negatire references as to rade to:

Seriet ideas (and there very not nary such references) goened a little 1:

tended to satissy no; they were mainly made In the first part of the inter

11ow, before any rapport was established. Il he was unhappy in Leningrad,:.

1t seenod to ba because he felt himself an allen, and because he was homo.

dex for the good chul USa, not becoure there was arything wrong with Cor

murder, or arothing good about, Americar politieal institutione. He pre

sentod hinsoll sorestat as the ordinary sur who trias to get alenes a lit,

€ E0d

---

## Page 5

1. S303:

41e = provineial or even puritanteal in making moral judgments on cthers,

even thile abriourly exposed. to moral eritielsn hintell. He deseribed the

Best el bie mother's condition as having till been a roal shock to him,

and this seems consistent sita hie tendency to eritseise drunkenness, bad

Jangrago, slipshod work, and so forth in others. He sonmented, rather

approrinety, that Sovlat ehildren really mind shes they ern suolded by

total strangers, whereas Amertean children (he thought) would not. I

would expect that he would be & good reactor whan submitted to a poly

•Prapa. Pertipe bocauro Ill ho had alroady been queationed ser several

hours, he seemed to be little guarded and jumpy, espersally men ey

of no quantiona sooned to virey fron the subjeet al Sortet publio attitado.

Do the other band, he volunteered i quito a lou remarka about hia ou

case, bis on problems. He appeared to be sorriod about his ehances of

finding & Job, and mentlored that one old friend (ho had stuck by him

Pell the way") was trying to help his in this.

then the tine ease for me to danet, lod. sien I had asted all the

queatsons I could think of, he acked 1s anything furtber vas to happen

that day. I said that all I knew uns shat you had told us when you left,

shat there was nothing further sat upt, and that I could aimply leave when

finished. He offered me a drink, which I declined, saying I minted to got

timo. I think he rather enjoyed the interview, or at loast dal the ehanie

articulatoroo, uhieh probably resulled son bla soying things he had

thought out and prepared hinself to say. I did not roally arose-question

his, In the sense al trying to eates his out, or probing his on sotiters

he was silling to run on and I was willing to let him, allig non questione

when he had said all he could on old ones.

SECHET

---

