# 104-10054-10065

## Page 1

1104-10054-10065| - 41944822.1:4u

•SUBJECT: (Oplional)

FROM:

IF. ONLY

I. JUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

SECRET

NO.

DIR 74830 - 5945.

OST 11.1963

•* DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number ouch common lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each commeni.)

RECEIVED

ION Smor dosignorion, root hamber, tand

building)

2.

SCOTT

WHITE

00 24

5.

Gordinn

we shried a lof

a for pho

10.

DO NOT LARK TEASI

OPY FOR INDEXING.

ACTION COPY TO:

12.

Paul

SCOTT

15/

NEW

p.

15/17

:7.5.

FORM

• 3-62

-610 USE REHOUS

EDITIONS

'SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

8-8573

CRE

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

L.

UNCLASSIFIED

0000182

---

## Page 2

14.000.00

DiSTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

"CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

11 OCT 63

NITIALS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DIG

FILE:

INCOMING NUMBER

DEFERRED

PRIORITY

ROUTI

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

P.VO

1022297

5245

TO

E/x/63.

6453.9

5.0-8-10-6

EE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVEMB 1 OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL

• LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-289248) BORN

LOUISIANA, -FORMER RADAR-OPERATOR IN UNITED STATES MARTLES

NEW ORLEANS,

WHO DEFECTED: TO •USSR IN OCT 19592-

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET

BLUE EYES.

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR,

STATES_CITIZENSHIP TO

2. ON 31 OCT 1959 HE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE HOSCONITED

UNITED STATES

INDICATING HE HAD ÄPPLIED "FOR"SOVIET CITIZENSHIP.

ON 13 FEB

THE US EMB. MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

POSTMARKED MINSK-ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

"HE DESIRED «RETURN OF HIS-US: PPT• AS WISHED:TO • RETURN: TQ

COULD COME "TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING: THESDROPPING

OF: ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME.**ON 8

• INITIATIVE HE. APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS: WIFI

RETURN TO. STATES•

SUBJ. STATED

THAT HE ACTUA

NEVER APPLIED

FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND

THAT HIS APPEARE

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND OR TEMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOM

REQUEST •

APPLICATION ACCORDING TO OSWAL

NTAINED NO REF TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP"PFOSWALD STATED

HAD- BEEN EMPLOYED• SINCE

13 JAN 1960. IN BELORUSSIAN

AND TV FACTORY. IN MINSK

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER IN

RESEARCH SHOP•

OSWALD WAS.

MARRIED ON: 30-APRIL

1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA

PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN

17 JULY 1941 USSRe

NO HDQS TRACES•

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE•

COULD APPEAR ATUEMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW• HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

LATEST, HDQS INFO WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT. STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA®

42. STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REE AND PARA ONE TO

TRO AND'THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

ODOATH, AND ODURGE LOCALLY®

INFO PARAS

( CONT PAGE TWO>

CEASSIRCATION

INCOMING

24 Ups old

? wearin

• DI!!? •Of

1-2

0000183

70=71

---

## Page 3

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

DIG

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

TO

NITIALS

TNITIALS

INFO

INCOMING NUMSER

CITE

•PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN 5945

NUMBER

1*5.

REF "AND-POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

AND ODURGE.

TOAS AISED ON ANY PACTER CONTACTS DR POSITIVE LEE ICATION

OF OSWALD•

*ND

- OF

MSG...

REPRODUCTION PROMBIED

11/16027

SEASICATION

INCOMING

0000184

02864

---

