# 104-10303-10006

## Page 1

1104-10303-10006]

1 176-7438

SEGRET

17 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM

SUBJECT

: John H. Waller

Inspector General

Jack Anderson Reference to 28 November

1963 CIA Cable

The Operations Group of CI Staff has provided a copy

of the cable about which you inquired. A copy is attached at

Tab A. It is a dissemination of a report by a British journalist

stating that a man named Ruby was in Cuba in 1959, where he

visited an American gangster-gambler named "Santos, " who

was living luxuriously in jail.

This dissemination was based

on a 27 November 1963 cable from London, a copy of which is.

attached at Tab B. A follow-up cable from London on

29 November commented on the source of the storv, raising

a question as to his reliability •

• A copy is at Tab C. A more

detailed statement about the man is contained in a report

passed to the FBI on 12 December 1963, a copy of which is

at Tab D.

2. On 7 January 1964 the FBI provided CIA with a report

that Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in 1959; a copy is at Tab E.

On 30 January CIA provided additional information to the

Bureau on this subject; a copy is at Tab F.

3. The following points of coincidence are probably of

interest to Senator Baker: Jack Ruby did travel to Cuba in

1959, as stated in the report that gave rise to the present

query; the name "Santos" is also the given name of Trafficante,

although it is not clear that these are the same persons. While

there are reservations about the reliability of the source of

the report which gave rise to the present question, we are not

in a position at this time to evaluate it definitively. It is noted

that the description of "Santos" as living in luxury in a Cuban

prison is similar to a version also reported in a 16 May 1974

story in the Outlook Section of the Washington Post.

12ames re = 055636

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

4. As you may know, an Agency task force has been

conducting an in-depth study of all information relating to

issues surrounding the Agency's support for the Warren

Commission investigation. This study has been underway

since early July and, because of the detailed nature of the

review, may require as much as another two months if it

is to be completed with the thoroughness that we believe

necessary.

5. OLC on 2 August called Liebengood of Senator Baker's

staff in response to a query concerning Jack Ruby's alleged

trip to Cuba. Unfortunately, on the basis of inadequately

researched information given OLC, that staff admitted to

knowing only about an allegation of a 1963 trip to Cuba by

Ruby put out as propaganda by an anti-Castro Cuban group.

The information did not include information in CIA's possession

on the 1959 trip by Ruby contained in the 1963 (Tab A) cable.

Madigan finally received from OLC a copy of the 1963 cable

on September 15, when the matter was straightened out and

the files properly researched.

6. As a relevant note on the question on whether or not

the Agency was purposely withholding the 1963 cable on Ruby's

1959 visit, we have been informed by the FOIA staff that at

least the following persons have been provided copies of the

cable:

Mark Lane

Paul Hoch

Bernard Fensterwald

David Belin

Walker & Buchanan

Harold Weisberg

George Lardner

David Martin

Norman Kempster

Christie Basham

Pamela Butler

Mel Elfin

Dan Schwartz

Robert I. Terpstra

Robert Anson

Carrollton Press

Washington Post

Associated Press

L.A. Times

NBC

Readers Digest

Newsweek®

National Inquirer

National Inquirer

New Times Magazine

-2-

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

7. As discussed with you, I think it would be useful for

my staff, specifically Breckinridge, to get Madigan out here,

describe to him our task force approach to the problem and

otherwise convince him that we are cooperating to the fullest

on this problem. We will coordinate this with OLC.

tell pada

Attachments:

Tabs A thru F

- 3

---

## Page 4

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 5

13-00000

"full 3

"5573

O NO

25 FOVEUBÉR-ISOBFILE IS ES FILE NO.

"BITE HOUSE

ATTA': MR: LICCEORCE FUNDY

DSPARMVENT OF SIAIS

ATTN: HR. U. ALFXIS JOINISON

FEDORAL, BUREAU OF IIVESIIGATION

CEOTRAL IFTELLIGENCE AGENCY

5

6

28 He: 63

16 502

Cut 4

NO: DEL, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI 2, VR

83 3024

DEFERE GET!

ROUTINE-

• TIMEDIATE

INFO

CITE DIR

85659

ON 26 NOVENEER 1963 A BRITISH JOURNALIST NAMER?

JOHN WILSON, AID ALSO KNOWI

AS JOHN WILSON-HUDSON

GAVE INFORMATION TO THE AMERICAN EMBASSY. IN LONDON

NICE INDICATSO THAN AX "NERICAN CARSIR SEE HANDY VICUED CURA

AROUND 2959. REESON MANSITY HAS WORKENG IY CUZA AE NUE SIVE AND VAS JAILED DE

CASIRO BEFORE HE WAS DEPORTED.

IT PRISON IN CUBA, WILSON SAYS HE NEX AN AMERICAN GANGSTER CELER

SANTOS WIIO COULD NOT PETURN TO THE U.S.A. BECAUSE THERE HERE SEVERAL

INDICINSNIS OUTSTANDING ACAINST JUM. INSIEAD HE PREFERRED TO LIVE IN RELATIVE

LUXURY IN A CUBAN PRISON. UNILA: SARTOS WAS IN PRISON WILSON SAYS, SMiTIOS

HAS VISITED FPEQUENTLY BY AN AMERICAN GANGSTER TYPE NAMED RUSS. IS STORY IS

BEING JOLIOTED UP, [NILSON SAXS HE TAD ORCE IESTIMO ABOUI CASTRO ACIVINES

BEFORE TIE EASTLAND COMMITTRE OF THE U.S. SENATE, SOLETINE IN 1959 OR 1960.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1978

END. OF MESSAGE

Document Number.

206-83

_UFDET CL BY 012208

for FOlA Review on

APR 1975

1: 200-5-41

26°

771%n

by authority of

RICHARD HELMS

DDP

RELEASING OFFICER

BS E02

201289248

CCORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP I

Excluded from aulomatic

SECRET

dsungrading and

declassification

REPRODUCTION

BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINS

OFFICER

Copy No.

Ime

---

## Page 6

13-00000

---

## Page 7

13-00000.

§ SEGRET

2

3

ROUTING

41

51

181

: DIRECTOR

*LONDON

Go ture

RECORDS, OFFICER STAMP

i-d falloing action is

autio

od: DE SENSITIZE

Signod:

la Stas

SECP.ET 271731Z

DIR: INFO

S4T5-0NES0S7

9.0. zl. -

(CANO: S3 M69 1 00

14-

721077

Note:

Iê Cestra

cite

reasons and cordinate

II appropriate.

REF DIR 85133%

OSHADEMIN LAGUAN SPECIAL BRANCH OFFHE

CE IN WAN RECORDS OSEICE.

JOURCE

INFORMATION

HOWEVER, CRAPPIG INDEX SHOUS THAT OSVALD

APRIVED IN SOUTHAMPION 9 OCT 59 CLAIMING IN HIE LAND INSE CARD HE

HAD NO FIXED ADDRESS BUI FLANNED REMAIN U. K. ONE. WEEK FOR VACATION

BEFCRE COING ON TO " SOME SCHOCL IN SUISSE".. YOWEVER, HE LEFT LOND

INdiCATION

NEXT DAY 10 OCT BY AIR FOR HELSINKI. • THERE NO RECORD ON RETURN

FROM USSR TO U.S.

HE PASSED THROUGH U. K. HOrEVERITOVING

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

Documont Number

THEREFOES-IRATELEEDEX HAULD NOT HAVE RECORDS

2° 26 NOV A SRIT SUBJ CLAIMING BE FREE LANCE JOURNALIST

RESIDING CHILE ROUCHLY LAST TWENTY YEARS NAMED JOHN WILSON AKA

VIL SO- HUDSCY VISITED EMB TO TELL FOLLOWING

SAID HE WAS IN CUBA

DURING 57-59 WORKING IN SOME CAPACITY FOR BATISTA AND WAS SUBSEQUENTLY

DEPORTED BY CASTRO AFTER IMFRISONMENT FOR A TIME HOWEVER QUEE

DANIS HE RNE A CAMLING GANGSTER TYPE HA"RISANDE WHO WAS IN

SAME PRISON WITH HIN AFTER CASTRO CAME TO POSER.

SANTOS WAS 217 NE63

GS COPT

SECRET

GROUP I

eton a sitate

Conse Na

REPRONUCTON RY OTHES THAN THE ICCHING DEFICE IE EDONIRITEN

z/mc

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Ior stertlo copy of this dostmani.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE*

IN 69100

_ PAGE 2

A"ERICAN BUT COULD NOT RETURN U. SO DUE SEVERAL FEDERAL. INDICI

MENTS QUE STANDING AGAINST HIM SANTOS OPTED THEREFORE REMAIN IN

PRISON FOR PERIOD OF TINE PAYING CASTRO IN DOLLARS FOR HIS RATHER

LUXURIOUS AND DEFINITELY NOA FRISON LIKE ACCOMMODATIONS. DURING

THIS TIRE HE VAS, ACCORDING TO WILSON-HUDSON, VISITED FREQUENILY

BY ANOTHER AMERICAN GANGSTER TYPE NAMED

PRUBY. WIL SON- HUCSON

CLAT'S HE COULD IDENTIFY RUBY FROM CLEAR PICTURE. ALSO CLAIMS

TO HAVE TESTIFIED BEFCRE THE EASTLAND SENATE COMMITTEE DURING

ITS HEAPINES IN 59 OR 69 ON CASTRO ACTIVITIES. STATION CISCANG

COYMENT S-

.:3.

CARLY PUR SUING MUCH SAME LINES AS STATION ON THEIR HAS

REQUESTS. VE CHECKING TOGETHER PREVENT DUPLICATION BUT SSARION:

FRED IS DUTE SILT SATION ANNENTY. HAVENSKED SNOSE

APPRO TATE AN PHEY HAVE AEREB

BLESS

-i citer

ES COMMENT: MOUSSEMINA SON APPLICABLE»TO*RYBAT GPFLOOR"CABLES.

conster

5/2mc

---

## Page 9

13-00000

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

8 CECICH

.2

3

ROUTING

4|

5

6

5bo 505782916332

29 My S3 17 02 1 1

FE LENDOr (r0 69100)

ALTHO STARTON TRACING JOHN WILSCH AXA WILSON HUDSON WICH.

2F6

LAGUAR, BELIEVE UN FIRST RETURNS FROH ODENHY CHECK HE LIKELY

FE PSYCHOPATH..

STATIOH GATHERS HE GAVE THIS IMPRESSION WHEN

TESTIFYINE BEFORE EASTLAND COMITTEE IN 59- VE ARE THEREFORE

SE072T

Document Number

233-94

for FOIA Review on

APR 1975

**Wilson claimed he knew "Ruby" while in Cuba 1957-59, and coula identity

Ruby from a clear picture.

Hantie

Note:

Indestruction citer

Teasons and coord aate

1I appropriate, s

Copy Ng

Z/mc

---

## Page 11

13-00000

---

## Page 12

13-00000

23:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Aitention: Hr. S. J. Papich

Deputy Director, Plaas

SUBJECT

MILSON, Carlos John

(aka

VILISON UBSON,

John

WILSON, John ludson)

DOB:

29 December 1916

20B: Liverpool, England

Reference:

OUT 85657, 28 November 1963

A usually reliable source, whose information was

evaluated as "possibly true", reported on 8 Augast 1951 the

following information concerning one Carl John WILSON Budson.

WILSON, a Spanish citizen of British descent

residing in Chile, vas a contact of one Bert SUCHAROY,.

a suspected soviot agent, in santiago, uhile..

It had been ascertained that FILSON had

arrivad In Chile on 23 January 1939 fION BUenOS AlIeS,

bearing spanish passport No.

:7, Issued in Buenos Alres

on & vanuary 15sg and visaed (tourist, by the chilean

Consul in that city on 25 January 1939. Le held

Chilean carnet 1.824.595 (Santiago) and resided at

Callo Arturo Medias 4207, Santiago.

Further background data revealed that. WiLSoN

was born in Liverpool, England, on 29 December 1916.

In July 1936 he had leit bis studies at Ozford Univen

sity in England to enlist as a volunteer in the Spanisia

Loyalist Forces, whereupon ha acquired his Spanisà

cltizenshig®

Subsequent to his arrival In Chile, WILSON In

his capacity as & Jornallst had opened a one man crusade

against the Eritish Governent, in violation of rostric

tions placed on such activities by foreigners in Chile.

ne had been, in addition, masquerading under various

nonexistent

titles as a result or which the Chilear

Government on 16 Jay 1939, at the request of the british

385-736

Document Number

as empy filed in

MAY 1376.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW O 4

-2-82.

for FOlA Review, 01

22 MAY 19/6

CONDUCTED ON.

E

SAPDET CL 5Y5/3.208

Copy file

---

## Page 13

13-00000

2

Eubassy, issued a dacree (No. 2344) ordering his

expuision fIon Chile.

Later, however, the decree was

rescinded as a result of WILSON's ples, his state of

health and his pronise to aiscontinue his nisrepresenta.

tion and other illegal activities.

In spite of his promises, MILSON bad continued

those activities, numbering anony others an abti

Fascist campaign which he had associated with a "Uni.

Versa1

Peace borerent" to bs brought about by the

clinination of all leading void povers.

TILSON alSO

had freguently posed as a British RAP captain and had

worn the corresponding unilors.

The strange mannerisms exhibited by VILSON

were atiributed to a mental 1llness, and following

WILSON's second outburst, the Britisn Ambassador pre

sented another request for his expulsion.

Again,

Eowever, following varlous explanctions by liLson to

the Bitish Inbassy and on the reneral of his promise

to reirain fron further activities of a similai sature,

the case was dropped.

On 7 October 1952, & usually rellable source, whosa

information was evaluated as "possibly true," subaitted the

folloying report concerning one Carlos John WILSON, who 19

identifiable with tha Carl John WILSON Budson in paragraph

1 above.

WILSON stated that he had arrized in Santiago

in 1947 and had worsed on a special nission for the

British Covermest in Gernany, Egypt, and Turkey at

the close or lorld Har II. He stated that he had

fought with the Spanish Republican forces againsi Franco.

He was violently anti-united States and constantly

condemned Inited states policy.

WILSON waS of the

opinion that England and France would eventually join

with the USSE to lorm a pact aimed at the complete

destruction of the United States.

He clained to be a

authority on the Balkans, and was a strong supporter

of IIto..

Tito; MILSON stated, would eventually Itse up

the entire Balkan area with Ingland and Brance to assist

Russin in crushing the United states.

bo

WILSON was extronely interested in the

---

## Page 14

13-00000

3

Yugoslar colony in Santiago. He attended i larjo cele

bration given by the Serbian Orthodor Sociaty at the

Club Ruso in Santiago®

On this occosion be had. DeconD

intoxicated and nade bitter regarts agalost the U.5.

Thile he was intonicated ha mde confidential remakes

Indicating that he was a nember of an intelligence

ServiCE®

C.

WILSON had an office on Calle Agustinas 111l,

which bore the following designation: "CINCSS, Connercizl

Intomation," WILSON's business consister of trade in

copper, lead, and sulpbar.

Re stated that he was

Involved in a secret "dea]" in Antolagasta, Chile,

• In

which he planned to ship 15,000 tons of sulpbut to

Holland,

do

WILSON was in contact with a man identzeled

as Heriberto Springaller EINICKS, also described as

bitterly ani1-U.S.

EINICKS vas believed to bave.

studied in the U.S. between 1922 and 1930. Be had

Intor tacone a colonel 1n the Nicaragar Army but had

been expelled fron the country. It was reported that ha

spent some tise in Bolivie and was closely involved

with Wilson in his so called comercial dealings

e.

VI.Soy was described as being very intelligent,

astute, and well inforned on current events.

Fe Fas

extrenaly sociable, friendly, a very beavy drinker, and

a Irce spender. lis physical description was as follows:

Apparent age: 38 years old (born circa 1914)

BuLla:

Hadiz.....

colar of halr: Frown

colos of eyes: Blue green

face:

Iong, large nose; suall, slightly pro

truding ears; ruddy complexion; small

mustache; wears glasses

docunentation:

Vit Press Pass No. 287, issued

1n Santiago. Pass Iron the

International Police Section

o1 the Chilesn Investigation

Service authorizing him to enter

Los Cerrillos alrport in Sautiago

at any time.

SOURCE COMMENT: Source mas of the opinion that WILSON vas

very probably an intelligence agent, since there was no

apparent reason for his great interest in the lagoslay colony

SHORES

---

## Page 15

13-00000

in Santiago and since his large income vas of questionable

origin

3.

i usuaily cellasle source reported 13 dune 1259

that tart sohn milner, sritish journalist, sent & cable Ir

the Britist arilanent and to the Sritis:

Trade Union Foz

eration saying that he had confired that the U.S. dilitary

Attaches in

the Caribbean were giving military advice to

dictators.

Ile protested in the nane of humanity,

saying

the patriots sere jighting for their sacred rights to ba Iree

tators with the approval of Fasalagion.

Source cormentad that

VIISON was planniag on accompanying fario CALERO, Nicaraguan

revolutionty who vas readying an expedition agalost

Nicazagus Irom Cuba.

Another report dated 26 June 1259 fron & usually

reliable source stated that Paul uGlas, an american soldier

of fortune, clined to have at his disposal three sizcraft,

including one bomber, and planed to launch an attack ou

Puerto Cabezas, Mcaragua, during the Meetond 01 23 28 3128

19590

hughes said that Carl Wilson, & british jourallat,

and about 65 volunteers would join him in the attack.

JOUICE

connented that FUGIES also raguely spoke of possibly bombing

Managua for the psychological eitect.

WILSON said that

Castro had no Incledge of HiGitS' plans.

5.

United Press International carried the story dato

lined 1 July 1359 Iron lavana, Cuba,

saying that Police had

raided a privato home in suburcan Bilinore the day belore

and saired a large guntity of ang and arrested three.

Anericans and a Briton.

Tho-Anericans- vere-ddeatitled as

Paul busins, an officer in Castio's rebel ainy, siren &.

PICIARDO, Of Mland, Florida; and Joseph BARDOR, Of Los

Angales, Californis. The Siiton was listed as Carl John

WILSON.

The U.S. Army Attache in lavana, Caba, reported

30 July 1959 that he had received the following note fron

Carl dona NauseN:

"Salvador ALlarde, (Cormnist sponsored presidential

candidate in 1958 and Socialist Party member) brought a

Jetter of definite instructions to Raul Castro fron

Chile.)

This letter contains Instruction from the

Arenlin in hoscor and contains the signature of rabio

Neruda of Chile. It deals sitb definite instructions

os anti- Anerican agitation to consence nest month in

Chile, Pera, Folivia, Cuba, Costa Rich, etc. Raul

---

## Page 16

13-00000

Castro is now under instructions oi Salvador illaguis

of Caile."

Source, Carl Joan WILSON, was described as a Fritisà subject

and free lance newspapermas, who was arrested with Paul

lities and who had been in jail ever since.

FILSON reportedly

wanted to talk to soreone.

U.S. Army Attache showed the note

to the British Chargo who agreed to send the Consul to talk

to WILSON and advise U.s. Army Attache 11 FILSON had anything

to nad is the contents of the note.. Nothing further vas

received.

7.

Associated Press datelined 6 July 1959, Havana,

carried story about WiLsoy who said he had began a seyen

day hunger stilse to protest his arrest and has to be lei

intravéncusly at Chba's National Police Hospital. Although

police dented WILSON was on a hunger strike, a hospital

intern sald that he sas suifering fron physical exhaustion

brought on by his refusal to eat. According to a 16 July

1959 Favana press report,

WILSON's wife, 3 Chilean nined

Ellans Eroninan, said WILSON had received a law degree fros

Ozord University and had fought in the Intermational Erigade

during the Spanish Civil Wai.

On 18 August 1959 WILSON valked into IS. Consulate

Blngston, Jamaics, and said he was & journalist wio had just

been released alter 54 days detention in Ezbana prison

volunteered inforation about Cuba and Commuist activity la

Latin serica.

On 21 August 1959 the U.S. Consulate in

Kingston Issued VILSON a single entry noninalgraat visa.

Be was carrying Eritish passport 147356 issued in Havant

14 hugust in the nane of John VILSON. He was ettenpting to

get air passage to llani in order to sell his storg to the

Hanl Herald and then to obtain a new visa fron Chilean

consulate to return home (UK or Chile not specified but

apparently he returned to Ji.)

I.S, State Departnent cable fros Asuncion, Paraguay,

reported 16 Deceaber 1959 that John FILSON, correspondent

for North American News Service, had informed the Paraguayan

Ambassador in London on 14 December that within tro days a

cargo oi 300 machine guas and 200 rifles were to be shipped

to Buenos Aires,. Argentina, at the direction oi Castio.

WILSON reportedly shored docuents which proved his statement

SCORDS

---

## Page 17

1,3-00000

and requested remittance for passage to suncion i0 inior

fully on the shipment without pay.

CSCI 3/779,048

26

CYH/3/Whitten]iz

Distribution:

Ostl - addressee

. - CILIA

CI/ R&A

CI/ ICG

HE/Walsh

DATE: 9 December 1963

PROJECT: None

Coord: WE Division Walsh

x6660

Imc

---

## Page 18

13-00000

---

## Page 19

13-00000

UNITI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JOUTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Rejer 80

File No.

WASHINCTON 25, D. C

BY LIAISON

Date:

T0:

From:

Subject:

January 7, 1964

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

JACK I. RUBY

LCK HARVEY OSHALD • VICTIM

CIVIL RIGHTS

Hr. Carlos Villa, 1450 Coral Way, Miami, Florida,

furnished to

the Bs On Lecember a, 1953, a Letter walch

had been towarded to a friend of his named Jose antonio

Juan.

ht. Juan had received the letter from his son living

in Cuba.

In the letter received by Mr. Juan from his son

the statement was made,

"It is known here that Hubinstein

was here a little less than a year ago visiting a li. Pranski,

owner of a shop dealing in tourist articles, located on

Prado Street between Animas and Trocadero, opposite the

Sevilla Biltmore."

The reference to Rubinstein appears to

refer to Jack I. Ruby who is presently in custody, Dallas,

Texas, on charges of shooting hee Harvey Oswald.

For your information this Bureau's investigation

concerning Jack I. Ruby has developed no information that

Ruby has ever been in Cuba except on one occasion in 1959

when he visited there briefly on a vacation trip.

Ruby

himself readily admits to this trip but has denied any other

trips to Cuba or contacts with persons there.

It is requested that, through avallable sources of

your Agency, you develop any information possible relating

to the above-quoted statement in an etfort to resolve the

allegation that Jack I. Ruby has possibly visited Cuba since

1959 and has connections there.

201-742862

---

## Page 20

13-00000

30 JAV 1964

3r2003r

Adarl aureau of invasiliato

Acroations :5o se de irrich

wines:

10s larmy isdiu - rictin

Civil Hights

ñoterance is nade to your manorandus of l Jamamy 19Eis,

subject as acoro, concernany a sapori of a visit to cuba in carly

1953 rade by Jack i MiX, assasala of lea danoy oui. Inis

Ajoncy has recaloi a sivilar report fron a saura to the olicch

thet Mar mas in saraca in lato 1962 or in barly 1953, socordine

to sila ancontirad report als was "a triond and castoner of a

(Cuban) citlien naned PRASKIN, omar and manager of a comity shop

for tourista Locatod (in farans) botuen hilaas and Trocatoro,

Pageo dul Frado, In front of le Motal Serilla," Dur sourco stated

thai the folloning individal could veliy the abora iniermazioni

Esidio Bernardo PiRaTA Acosta

PROb. 32 l'arca 1927, Gral, Carrilo, Las VIllas, Subs

jesbor of Esigado 2506

ox Intest Intoration conceming die vercabouis oi ricura acosta

aricata his addrosa as of Septesbar 1753 1933

323. Si and Strget,

Mani, Florida

2

He suggest that your fumau nay prefer to intzrien PuRELa

Acosta,

dur filas contaia to informilan on angore icontifiabla vit

Pasti. Ha would aparaciato receiring tha resulta of your lacerrier

9I Picilla Acosta, Tour Suresu #131 be adrised la se evant la rocoire

Further Informazion relating to this satter.

POI IE DEPUTY PRUCTUA FOR FILISS

• Jaras daglaton

G56I-3/773,182):

---

## Page 21

13-00000

cunE-3/779,311

01/5iS/Dheegery:as

30 Jaauary 1951

1230N:07:00

Crico

* 1= Adcresses

26

• #U/3/05-

initter

CI/REA/Mir, Rocca

- CT/LIA (dUENT)

CI/R22A (dury)

7 - 01 51C

(Sensitive Menos

201-742 862)

2

Imc

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

13-00000

25.

le

•l:

ste

ed

Ily

ily

Ily

i'e-

ly.

fic

nid

"Al'

156

. ol

?18,

115

he

INS

91,

: he

and their work me desse card, clude de do to done depend

• men, dostifical that no more than Do to Do of Dallas' almost 1,200

policemon were acquainted will Range Mosses, the reports of

presont and past members of the Dallas Police Departmend as sell as

Ruby's employees and acquaintances indicade that Dals's police

friendships sope far more widespread den those of the iveri

cilizon."5:

There is no credible evidence that Rule sonalt sperial Prors from

police odicers or attempted to bribe theom."*

shongh there is cousin-

erible esidence that. Rul garo policemen reducee rades, declined

to exed any cover charge from thems and gase them fre coller

and sode drinks, in chis hospitality was not mened for a Dallas niell-

club operator: "s

Ruby's personal attachment to police others

is demonstrated by reports that he arcondeed the tuneral of at lost

one policeman killed in notion and stared a benofit performance fortle

wirlos of amother.

Ruby

regardes sereral oflieros as personal

friends, and others had worked for him.ass

Finally, at least one police-

man regularly dated, and erennally married, one of the Carousels

strippers.s9

Underworld Ties

From the time that Ruby arrived in Dallas in 1917, he was friendly

with numerous underworld figures.

One of his earliost Dillas ar

quaintances was Pinl Roland Jones, who was convicted of attompting

to bribe the sherit of Dallas and engaging in the sale of narties

•Toe Bonds, one of Ruby's partners in the Vegas Club, had a criminal

recoral. 392

Ruly, who enjoyed card playing a and horse racing,' was friendly

with several professional mumblers.

In 1969, he risited Cula at the in-

vitation and expense of Lewis MoTillie, i professional gambler*s

Alice Nichols reported that Rubr's refusal to give up cambling was

one reason why she never seriously considered marrying him. When

Sidney Seidband, a Dallas gambler, was arrested in Olenhom City, his

list if gambling dequaintances included lack Ruly.

friends of Ruby have been identified as gamblers.**

sons of questionable reliability hase reported that Ruby's consent vas

necessary before gumbling or nareoties operations could he launched

in Dallas, 309

Based on

its eraluation of the reeord, howeror, the Commission

belicres that the eridence does not establish a sigmificant link larseen

Ruby and organized crime.

Both State aud Toleral ollicials late

indicated that Ruby was not afliliated with organised criminal aris-

And numerous persons have reported that luky was not con-

nected with such activity, tos

Travels

Despite reports that Ruby visited Marana, Lias Vegas, Vew York,

Chicago, Honolulu, and Mexican border towns, most of his time sulse-

801

---

## Page 24

13-Q0000

quent to 1947 was spent in Dallas. Some of his travels, includine his

efforts in behalf of "Little Daddy" Nelson and his visit to Nes Orleans

in June 1063 have been discussed mz Ruby stated that he went to Chi-

cago in 1952, in 1958 when his father died, and in Angust 1063 when he

met members of his family at O'TTare International Airport while en

couto from New Tork to Dallis.1g

Tis august trip to der York

motivated by his didiculties with the American Guild of Varioty

Artists and his desire to obtain talent, has been completely established

by hotel records! Early in 1003 Ruby also terreled to Wichita,

Kans., because of his interest in stripper Gail Raren, o and on May 25,

1963, he apparently registered in an Oklahoma motel. 48

Although Thy denies being in Tas Vegas after 1037 a8 there are

unsupported rumors that. he was in that city in late 1962,ns and the

carly part of November 106389 Repors that he was in Las Vegas.

durg the reekend prior to the assassination an appear similarly

unfounderl.*n

There is some uncertainds about Ruby's trip to Flarana, Cuba, in

1959.

The evidener indicates that he accepted an invitation from

gambler Lewis of. MoWillie, who subsequendy became a riolent anti-

Castroite, to visit Havana al M-Willies expenses:

met. AleTillie in about 1950, when MoWVillie operated a Dallas night-

clubma MoWillio, whom linly said he idolizeld supervised pant-

Ting activities at Havana's 'Tropicana Hotel in 1950 and later was em-

ployed in a managerial rapacit in a las Vegas mumbling establish-

ment.4ts Ruby testified that he went to Havana forS days in August.

1950 and left because he was not interested in its gambling activities. 1s

McWillie corroborated this story except that he stated only that Ruby

visited. Marana "sometime in 1950.948 Three Chicagons reported

seeing Ruby in Taran during the Tabor Day nockend in 1959.18

Meyer: Panit%, an acqmintanos of MoWillie, reported that when he

miet Ruby in Miami during tie "summes of 1959" Kaby stared that he

was returning from a pleasure trip to Cula. The theory that the

trip to Tavana had conspiratorial implications is discussed in chapter

VI. There is no reliable pridence that Ruly went to Marana subse-

quent to September 10.50.1an

Although Ruby denied ever being in Irari, E there is some evi-

dence that during the summer of 1961 he was in Ilonolula sooking

dancing talent.

While it is unlikely thar Ruby would forget a trip

to Honolulu in 1961, there is no other indication that such a trip, if

it occurred, had any sinister motires.

CHARACTER AND INTERESTS

Family Relationships

As mentioned previously e Era Grint was the ouly member of the

Family living in Dallas when Tale returned do to rity in late 1947.

In 1048, she returned to the west coast, risiting Dallas sporadically

802

---

## Page 25

13-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Monday - 20 December 1976

13 1,3

SSC!

I/6

Page 1

77-0277/4

Briefing

15. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Mike Epstein, Senator William

Hathaway's (D., Maine) designee on the Senate Select. Committee On Intelligence,

called to say that Senator Hathaway wanted to make it clear that the concerns

Epstein had relayed regarding the interviewing of Sovict emigrees were not

necessarily his own.. Epstein asked that Agency records reflect that this

was Epstein's own concern.

Epstein also said Senator Hathaway wanted to tour all Agency

buildings in the Metropolitan Washington area so that he would have a better

understanding of the Agency's size, deployment, and activities. I told Epstein

this would be quite an extensive plan and I would bring him a list of all

Agency locations and what offices were located there and he could choose fror

the list which buildings he wanted to visit.

16. (Confidential - DFM) TRAVEL Walt Ricks, Senator Robert

Morgan's (D., N. Car.) designee on the Senate select committee on interigence,

called to ask that we brief Senator Morgan mearly afternoon today regarding e

his trip to Panama and Mexico City. I accompanied

SA/DO/O,

George Lauder, C/LA, Tim Desmond, Panama Branch/DDO, and 'Tom Keenan,

Mexico City Branch/DDO, to a briefing on the L

and their activitiesy 24

24 Operating Directives for

_were shown to the Senator and Ricks.

Both Senator Morgan and Ricks have contacted State Department and DOD for

their assistance and Senator Morgan has asked Col. Dick Fisher, Department-

of the Army, to accompany him. He said he would still welcome an Agency

escort if we preferred. The main focus of his Panama visit now appeais to be

the Canal treaty issue, although he does plan to spend one day with

personnel in Panama and two days with

/personnel in Mexico City.

24

Select Common dentia peace Minty et with o, and Lebengod, Senata

the transcripts on Lee Harvey Oswald's telephone conversations in Mexico

City were available for Committee review at Headquarters.

18. (Confidential - DEM) LIAISON Tom Moore, Senate Selectr

Committee on Intelligence staff, called to ask if he could review Agency

documents on George S. DeMohrenschildt again on the afternoon of 21 December

1976. After checking with

_ SA/DO/O, I told Moore he could begin

his review at 2:00. He also asked lo review the Lee Harvey Oswald transcripts

at the same time.

ERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

6/mc

---

## Page 26

13-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Avas

Biefing

SSCI J 4

27-0294/12

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Tuesday - 21 December 1976

1. (Internal Use-Only - DFM) LIAISON Called Ed Levine,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to tell him the DDO had

prepared a computer listing for all the reports on Portugal for the period

Levine wants to review. I told him I would arrange for a meeting for him

and

I SA/DO/O, to review the listing and for a briefing on what.

kind of reports are available.

2. (Unternal Use Only - DEM) LIAISON Tom Moore, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, reviewed, in the OLC office, Agency

"tiles on George S. DeMohrenschildt and transcripts of Lee Harvey Oswald's

conversations with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

3. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Met with Howard Liebengood;

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who informed me that Committee

staffers had met on a Senate Select Committee on Intelligence document

destruction review procedure and that he would send a letter to the Agency

with the Committee's position on this matter.

4. (Internal Use Only - DEM) BRIEFING Bill Miller, Mike

Madigan, Howard Liebengood, Mike Epstein, and Paula Schwartz, Senate

Select Come to golite eat out i Bill Cravo, SA/DOC

and myself, to discuss Agency programs in Micronesia. (See Memo for

the Record.)

5: (Limited Official Use - CM) CONGRESSIONAL STAFF BRIEFING

Following up on the call of Helsinki Commission staffer Martin Sletzinger 10

Bob Hepworth, Center for Policy Support, for a briefing on the USSR's

USA Institute and its chief, Georgiy Arbatov, and their influence on Soviet

foreign policy decision making and makers, l arranged with Sletzinger fol

a briefing at Headquarters at 3:30 on 22 Decomber for Sletzinger, Helsinki

Commission Staff Director Spencer Oliver, and staffer Robert Rand.

INTERNAL USE ONL!

3/mL

---

## Page 27

13-00000

/

640 Passi

SSCIASSP

OLC 76-3754

23 December 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

SA/DO/O

SSCI Reguests

Assascination

SSCI

77-0072/2

Attached in order to ensure a bright holiday for you, are

some new SSCI requests.

1. Rick Inderfurth asked for an Agency report on

the 20 December 1976 Jack Anderson column and the

article entitled, "Mr. Death" in the January 1977 Playboy

magazine.

Regarding the Anderson article, I think we

should particularly comment on the statement in the first

column that Letelier carried the sensitive papers in his

bricfcase in order to prevent their theft by CIA.

2. Mike Madigan called to inquire about the status

of the 13 December 1976 request to see files on six Cubans.

I said we were in the process of gathering materials. He

added that the Committee would also like access to Agency

materials on two Cuban exile organizations: Alpha 66, and

SENE (Second Front National Escamrey).

Honks,

Donald F. Massey

Atts

Distribution:

Drig - Adse

1- OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

OLC/DEM/ksn

---

## Page 28

13-00000

SECRET

SENSITIVE

1%

....

SUBJECT: Fact Sheet re Fidel Castro's Allegation that

CIA is Responsible for the 6 October Crash

of a Cuban Airplane near Barbados and Other

Terrorist Acts

16-17

1.

In his speech of 15 October 1976 in honor of the

Cubans killed in the 6 October crash of the Cuban airplane

near Barbados, Fidel Castro said that he intended to abrogate

the anti-hijacking agreement between Cuba and the United

States because, he said, the CIA was responsible for the

destruction of

the aircraft and that CIA is backing a

terrorist campaign against Cuba.

CIA is planning to assassinate him. In the speech Castro

said that Cuba has controlled a CIA agent over the past

years who had been asked by CIA to install an audio device

in the office of Osmani Cienfuegos.

Cienfuegos is Secretary

of the Executive Committee of the Cuban Council of Ministers,

is the member of the Central Committee of the Cuban Communist

Party responsible for Africa and the Middle East, and is Fidel

Castro's principal advisor on African affairs.

2.

Three people have been accused of responsibility for

the crash of the Cuban airplane.

They are Hernan Ricardo

LOZANO, Freddy LUGO, and Luis POSADA Carriles.

CIA has no

information on LOZANO or LUGO. At one time we had a relation-

SAID WIth POSADA, but it was

terminated in early 1974. Our

nad occasional contact with him after

that,

and the last time he was met by an Agency officer was in June

1976, at which time he asked us for help regarding a visa

matter.

His request for help was turned down.

The FBI and

the Department of State have been informed of the above

regarding LOZANO, LUGO, and POSADA.

There is no CIA connection

with any of the

other terrorist incidents cited by Castro

in

his 15 October speech.

3.

In

regard to Castro's announcement that the Cuban

government has had control over a CIA agent for ten years and

that this agent had been ordered to install an audio device

in the office of Osmani Cienfuegos, Castro was evidently.

referring to an intelligence collection operation begun by

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

SENSITIVE

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 025231

IN

---

## Page 29

13-00000

'SECRET

SENSITIVE

this

Agency in 1967 when we asked the agent to report on

Cuban military, economic, and political matters.

From 1967

we have met him a number of times when

he traveled out of Cuba and have communicated with him via

coded radio message and secret writing while he was in Cuba.

an audio device in January 1975 which he told us

he installed in Cienfuegos' office in March 1976. Obviously

he did not do so.

We have attempted on two or three occasions

to actuate the device and being unable to do so we concluded

that either the device had never been installed or that it

had malfunctioned.

4.

We asked the agent in early October to inform us

regarding the possibility that Castro might travel to Angola

to participate in that country's independence celebration.

Castro insinuated in his 15 October speech that we had asked

about his travel plans in an attempt to assassinate him.

This,

of course,

is absolutely untrue.

We continually follow the

travels of Fidel Castro and other high-level Cuban officials

as part of our standing objective to cover the Cuban leadership.

On this specific occasion we were particularly interested in

whether Castro would visit Algeria, Somalia, Mozambique or

other African countries if he traveled to Angola.

Castro also quoted an earlier, undated message

attributed to CIA which asked the agent a series of questions

about Cuban government reaction to terrorist acts against

Cuba.

Such a message was actually sent to the agent in May i"

1974. The purpose of this message was to develop intelligence

on how terrorist attacks against Cuba by anti-Castro exiles

affect relations between the United States and Cuba.

not repeat not engaged in Cuban exile terrorism against Castro's

Cuba.

2

S E

SECRET

N S

I

I VE

---

## Page 30

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

deracination

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Page 2.

Friday - 3 December 1976

SSCI J6

77- 0310l4

1. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON I called Tidward Martin,

Administrative Assistant to Senator Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.),

and told him I had heard that Bob Hunter, also on the Sonator's staff,

had been in touch with the State Department about the Scnator's interest

in talking with Viktor Belenko about his wife and family. I told him there

was no objection to the Senator meeting with Belenko but that Bclenko las

said he does not want to talk with anyone about his domestic situation in

the Soviet Union. I pointed out that the Soviets alc trying lo prey on

Belenko's domestic situation and added that it was preferred by Helenko

that there be minimal publicity concerning any contacts. Martin said he

would discuss the matter with Senator Kennedy and be back in touch with

5. (Confidential - DEM) BRIEFING Accompanied Elliot Maxwell,

Senatc Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to a meeting with John Berg,

DD/ER,

DCD, and Evry Vidal, O/SA/DO/O, in connection

with Maxwell's upcoming trip lo the West Coast. Marwell is going to visi!

with DCD and FR representatives ir San Francisco and perhaps contact

representatives of these offices in Seattle, Washington, Meswell subsequently

informed me there was some opposition to his visiting contractor sites end

thcrefore this would not be part of his trip.

I delivered io Manuall a paper proparcd by Harry Fitzwater, D/OI.

which Manwell had a Siod for ai the Seleci Committee visit to the Specia

Trining Center on 21 October 1976. The paper was in oudire of the

presentation made on EO 11905 in Operations Courses given at the Center.

6. (Internal Use Only - DEM) LIAISON I called for Moore, Senals

Select Committee on Intelligengs stafi, to let him know that I thought he coul

begin review of the George S. DeMohrenschildt files about next Wednesday,

8 December 1976. Moore said Howard Liebengood, also of the Select Cormitte:

stali, also wanted to look at these materials and he might want to start with

Office of Security files on 6 December. However, Liebengood never called

to make firin arrangements. Moore expressed particular interest in a letter

Deliohrenschildt had sent to the Director in Seplember and I said I would try

to have it available for him on Monday.

MA DUEERAL KaR 0913

CONFIDENTIA!

---

## Page 31

13-00000

Roview Staff:

28 July 1975

75/1668

Mr. Willian G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee To Study Governmental

Operations With Respect To Intelligence

Room G- 308

Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D. Ga

20510

Dear Mr. Niller:

The attached paper is in response to a request for

files and matorials relating to the 1967 IG Report on

• Assassinations. The question was posed to Mr. Scott

Breckinridge during, his 2 June 1975 appearance before

the Senate Select Conmittee.

Sincerely,

Steve

Walter Elder

Assistant to the Director

Attachrent:

As stated

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SEGRET

17 July 1975

Subject:

SSC Request to Breckinridge During his ? June Appearance,

for Files and Materials relating to the 1967 IG Report on

Assassinations, Including Tab A after Page 77 of the Report.

Response:

A search has been made for the files of the Chief, WH

•Division in 1967 (Desmond Fitzgerald), and those of Col.

•J. C. King. At that time Mr. Fitzgerald was alive; he

has since died and his files do not exist as an integral

collection, although portions may exist in different

holdings in WH Division. Col. King had retired at the

time of the IG inquiry, but he was still working under a

special contract and was at the Headquarters Building

at Langley where he had retained some personal files;

his files are no longer identifiable.

Other materials, reviewed by the Inspectors in 1967 were

limited in nature, some of which have been made available

to SSC Staff members in envelopes in which they have been

held since 1967. The SSC Staff members have had access

to the project files of QJWIN, WIROGUE, ZRRIFLE and

2 LEMDEED.

Should they wish

access to the files relating to the anti-Diem coup, they

can be made available on request.

- 93.

CASSIEET-

FROT

:....

8o modise)

Inc

---

