# 104-10210-10017

## Page 1

104-10210-10017

44148.

i. 15.

DATE.

6.088

70

T.

Ryan

C, SB/CI/K

6991

26 March 1968

#390459 53813

TWe 19985.

SECRET

м#.

SB8

X RID COPY

debras-Beations

1180418

11846-68990

11

NO SALES 159 MILES DeED 74-6-528/3

1870:

.ve...

Err8, cralops. F...

flInz

"Preterence ruminess)

11 89ae

SECRET

this and prio

•—-

2/ 2 117.

INFO

CITE DIRECTOR

8,6 4 0 5

REDTOP ICIMPROVE AEDONOR

REF:

2340 (IN 77131)

AEDONOR REPORTS MENTIONED REF NOT PERTINENT TO ANY

INTERESTS, BUT SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE PLS

FORWARD AND WE WILL MAKE APPROPRIATE REPLY.

END OF MESSAGE

LACIEUR SOV

•BILEASINO OFFICER

AC/SB/O/EU/

C/E/SAAS

COORSINAVING OFFICEES

SECRET

GHOUT 1

80M4480008 88

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHEN

OFFICER

LOiTNO

---

## Page 2

*

IFSECRETATA O5510"

ADVANCE COPY

SLOTTED

DISGEM B.

ACTION

S5$

PID COP;

SECRET COILINZ MAR DE CITE

CSSAGE

SECRET

(Who Filled In)

10a comes 38)

GROUP!

18C 8063 14949 AST 9LATIE

PAOCINE

waaaaaahend tod

CA

FiPPCOUCTION OF THIS COPY BROMIBITED

2

MA UNIS DO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

I-DES TO FILE DO -

•ENS DRET TO

BRANCHO'

INFO

Va EURE DDP. ADAP. CI.CIOPS Fi

FILINTE CAS. CA/PROI

2340

DIRECTOR JAFO

25He0477131

REDTOP

1.

PRESS 25 MARCH CARRIES ACCOUNT SATURDAY

EVENING FOST SIORY BY DAVIS MISE IN WHICH ME CITES NOSENKO

AS SOURCE SOME REFORTS ON SSWALD USED BY WARREN COMMISSION.

WISE HAS ALLEGEDLY SEEN THESE REPORTS•

2. This FIRST

IS LIKELY CAUSE

PUBLIC MENTION NOSENKO FOR SOME TIME AND

QUESTIONS. PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

BT

58/01/15

Here and There

More on Oswald Case

tokarmy cassited tran-eriple of Warren

Commussian sessins dischned that Law Harvey

Ozald as such an "extremely poor shot" dur

ze his stay an Russia in 8959 that hunting man.

pazars had to gie him game. The Commassion

recited this dala fron turi Kanorich Voienko,

8 Maian secrer parice agent sino delected lo the

t's. three

manths after the

assa,-jiation of

resident bendy, accordine to an article by

Ravid Wive in the current iside of the Satarday

eierog lurt. The same arudle said the Conti

sia ined bus failed du see sital aulopss phour

craphs to clandy "runiusing" evidence about the

Babris which suck the Presideni.

An elfare to restore the Belumore trine of

H la Mencken jo being draun up by Denne Mer-

s an empire of Be Siale Pianning Depariment

and a lan ná abe lamed journalist.

UPI space writer Edward K. Delong ad In

Jer Orlezas Ur Lis. may launco a masive

pare bud-up from "sheer fright" if the Susiel

lins sucensfull orbees a manned space plar

Last in 19

---

