# 104-10186-10287

## Page 1

104-10186-10287

IN FORN

FLON

ORM

NON

REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This marial containe Information affectina the Mathual Determ ol the VOlTed BIAtO WItHIn the LAPARiDE ol lA DeplORADO LATA TIRe

14, 0.1C Bees. 199 nod TO, the transmenon or rerelalon of watch in any manner lo an unauthorted peen la pratialed by saw.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT (inu) GINES

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00369-64

24 July 1964

1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washingtoil, D. C.

DATE ACQ INly 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTARIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

I. The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

2o It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

[nu) GINES, pseudonym "Gil, " is the British Gulana desk offices

In the Departmento de Liberacion Nacional (LN - National Liberatior

Department) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General

Headquarters Comment

1. The records of this Agency reveal no Information on (ínu) GINES.

4

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5

i acrobat trans per

STATE

TARAT

INAVY

REP CINCLANT

CINCSO #

N3A

I&NS

190X

JERI 2

(Moro: Plale distribution Indicoled by "#")

INFORMATION REPORT INEORMATIONAREPORT

MI/SA/BOBLWE/S/R

CELLA

LX-1599

WH/SA/MOB 1 WE/MADR2

C1, R&A

WI/SA/R

ЗTE

L/ VHSI

NO PROJECT

- (AMMUG-1)

WH/SA/CI

RID/AN

CSCI-316/00369-61

WH/WAVE

TOTALE

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

11A13ом d

COORDINATIME MR: ILL

CI/R&A K

201-None

OBSOLETE PRITIOCS EDITONA

SIBR

---

