# 104-10188-10038

## Page 1

104-10188-10038

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIILATIDN

SECRET

DOCISSE ACES

MACHID ICE INCARNA

COLD SUBLINIS DESA

CHO NOCI INDERINA

Chief. WH Division

18-CHOF 1L18

S40JCT

ProjeCt LIFEAT

ACTICA REQUIRED -RUILRENCIS

REFS:

A.

FЛM-11843 /

B.

IDIMA 22115

The KUTUBE/ INT corments in Reference A regarding the

LIFEAT. Project do nnt present an accurate indication of Head

quarters judgement of the value of the Project.

were passed along as the KUTUBE/INT reviever's ovaluation of

the intelligence production only:

• The Station and Head

quarters are both aware. that LIFEAT is considered one of the

best project of its type and that the Project is designed.

The Meaican Desk

be considered as of more than "routine interest.

KUTUBE conments do not mean that Headquarters la conaldering

• 'shift of emphasis in the Project's targets.

A representative fron KUTURE/ope is visiting the

Station during the weet of 32 September to study the LIENVOY

and LIFEAT Projects since these Projects are considored

unlouely productive.

LIFEAT 18 considered an outstanding

project and it is boped that security problems which are

arising can be overcome so that this valuable

operatlonal facility can remin avallable to the Station.

END OF DISPATCH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

O&l - COS, Mexico City

DISPATCH STURG UNO LUNGER

HHNW11946

GAST CATION

SCRET

5,0-6-32/3

20 Sept

1963

MOSSRE AURDER

50-6-33/1

WH/3 Mexico/T.

cruis:

Ward: Jpm

CORCHANG

LATE

CRIMIRS GAVE

ENT

5940

1 - RI

— Chrono

ROUTING

INITIAL

RID/AN

RID/MT:

SIDES

L1H3/BEX

CATE

CHAD

15945

S.c. KIa.

DISPATCH

---

