# 104-10234-10131

## Page 1

104-10234-10131

1

ra isgftoi

i mon

CLASSIFICATION

TRANSMIT

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

; eb

127

SECRET

ORIG.

ROUTING

UNIT

WH/C/RR/RE

EXT.

5547

2

DATE

5

22 March 1966

Man 22 21

CONFIRMATTON COPIES

WHC 10

TDC SDB-315/00896-66

INFORMATION COPIES

C1/DPS C1/IC, B1, FI/D, F1/INT 6, IM, CA 2, CA/PBG, DO 2, DO/H 4, VH 9,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

3 8 266

PRECEDENCE

22 March 1966

WHC/RE

HC/RR

WHC/FI

WHC/CI

WHC/NO

1 WH

EVALUATCN

REQUESTED

STATE

OF

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

DISSEMINATION

3 WHC/SI

IWE/5/R

WHC/WAVE

IWEJ

IWHC/CA

XI

ROUTINE

BASED ON (FD. RT., PROJ.)

WAVE-9731 (IN-79798)

UFG 8060

NP (QUMALT-1)

Lialson *

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

CONTROLLED DISSEM

Grace

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AMLASH -1

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

ICOORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEASING OFFICER

e/WH/C/RR

COPY NO.

SECRET

POOCEN FILLED INJ

1S-4A 18-8 OIOLATPERMOUSEITIONES

rszirari@pai@nn.menemeotant

*ismnor

Kerin

---

## Page 2

CONF DENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CONTROLLED DISSEN

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF 13 MARCH 1966

INFO.

TDCSDB-315/00896-66

DISTR 22 MARCH 1966

- SUBJECT

SECRETARY FOR FOREIGN RELATIONS AND

AFFAIRS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN WORKERS'

ORGANIZATION

MAEACO UNITED STATES, MIANI (21 MARCH 1966)

REF

IN

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL: A FORMER CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL WHO DEFECTED IN A WESTERY COUNTRY

AND WHO HAS PROVIDED USEFUL INFORVATION SINCE LATE 1964.

TAINED THE INFORNATION FROM A RELATIVE IN THE UNITED STATES OF

ROGELIO IGLESIAS PATIÑO.

STATE/ANN

:1. BY 13 MARCH 1966 ROGELIO ICLESIAS PATIÑO, SECRETARY FOR

FOREIGN RELATIONS AND SECRETARY FOR SOCIAL ASSISTANCE OF THE CENTRAL

DE TRABAJADORES DE CUBA REVOLUCIONARIA (CTC-R, REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN

WORKERS' ORGANIZATION) WAS UNDER ARREST BY ORDER OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT

AUTHORITIES.

2. FIELD COMMENT: IT IS POSSIBLE THAT IGLESIAS' ARREST IS A

DIRECT RESULT OF THE RECENT TRIAL OF ROGELIO CUBELA SECADES AND

RAMON GUIN DIAZ. ONE OF THE INDIVIDUALS TRIED WITH CUBELA AND GUIN

WAS JOSE LUIS GONZALEZ GALLARRETA WHO FORMERLY HELD A DIPLOATIC

POST IN SPAIN AND WHO WAS A GOOD FRIEND OF IGLESIAS.

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO.

,, U8.C. Bech, 133 and 79

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR

JCS

REPCINCLANT

CIA/NYCC

SECDEF NSA NIC JIS USA OCI ONE OCR ORR 8OK: DCS

hera,

---

