# 104-10209-10049

## Page 1

104-10209-10049)

т по мотат те."-осталон-

SECHET

MEMORANDUM TO.:

SUIJECT

.. sister, Cilada, in

Dilario roll to the Garrison

invecti.il..n

REVERENCE

ust 1967,

mageet: mikA:/Carrison Investigation

livener, dronscinatina: Donald P.

MONTON, in loua31Un18.

• Beference iarvardou a C!/32A memorandum about NORTON

ince: l'ut date Fil reporis have shown thal

VORTON is a comman, and U.S. dir force Medical recurds have se-

vealed that he was cocharged in july 1050 as a result of psychiatric

problems, insing trica on ino or more occasions to commit suicide.

NORTON's lies aboLi ClA irst appeared in the Vancouver Sun on 5

August 1967.

2. The attached FBI repori, DOB 77295, 10 April 1967, concerns

another example oi disinformatior appearing in Vancouver, involving the

Sun, and relaled to the Garrison case. A check of Agency files showed

that we have no record of Trevor LAUTENS, Mario GRACIAS, or €

Miss Dorothy WHITTY. The reicrence of the unidentified caller to

GRACIAS may have been a garble ior Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez, whom

Garrison has named as one of the assassins of President Kennedy but

who appears lo have disappeared o: to be non-cristent. There are no

Agency traces (includin: JMWAVE) on GARCIA.

3. The Communial press generally and Soviet news media specifically

have given Garrison's siory enihusiastic coverage and support, because

it is obviously in their interest io maintain that President Kennedy was

Bocument Number.

1557-1114-B

for. FOlA Revie on

FEB 1978

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

2

assassinalcd no: by pre-Communal Ie Harvey Oswald but rather as

a result pó a riche tiny conspirace covolving CiA.

4. The sariaciny of lue such allegalions in or through the Vancouver

Sun scems to plice a sirain oi coincidance. Do you have any information

about the Lie oi lao fu: in oiler erfuciras of MiORDER propaganda

against Cur ls inero by idioint don about contacts between criployees of

the San ind apresentatoes di Sovind intelligence? If no such information

is at hand, would ted porciated it those questions were forwarded to

the Station, Aithoug leadiguariers las so frcord di Trevor LAUTENS,

it is conceivable th it Suitson files may ilso noid information about hin.

Donovan E. Prait

DC/CI/R&A

Attachments

Distribution

Orig & l - Adressce

1 - A/DCI (Mi. Goodwin)

1 - General Counsel

1 - Office of Security (Attn: N5. Paul Gaynor)

1 - CI/ Red Chrono

1 - DP for file (New Vancouver file)

1 - CI/RiA (Miss Smith)

- =

SECRET

---

