# 104-10128-10111

## Page 1

104-10128-10111]

1. 5 i

=3-

33

120%

1416%

SLONE:

15 September 1954

TO:

FROM :

SUBJECT:

FEFERENCE:

Chief, Special Security Division

Chief, Cover Branch

PHILLIPS, David Atlee

#40696 - SSD

Memo from Chief, Projects Desk to Chief, SSD dated

8 September 195L - same subject

GIST:

Referenced memorandum reflects that a limited badge was requested

by PP Staff for the Subject in order that he might enter overt Agency

buildings for a period of one year for indoctrination purposes. Subject

will be a covert associate during this period and will subsequently be

assigned to the field under non-official cover.

The Cover Branch was

requested to study the problem and make recommendations.

DETAILS:

By memorandun dated 1 September 1954 from Acting Chief,

Psychological and Paranilitary Operations Staff, a limited badge was

requested for Subject to permit him to enter the Administration

Building, 2210 E Street, I, J, K and I Buildings for a period of one

year. In support of this memorandum Mr. Frank Wisner, DD/P in a

memorandum dated Il July 1954 indicated his approval of Subject's

preliminary training at Headquarters in preparation for his future

assignment to the field under non official cover. The request for

a limited badge was concurred in by Staff C purely on the basis of

Mr. Wisner's memorandum.

It is noted that Subject has been of interest to this Agency

since 1950 and that an operational clearance was granted him on ill

January 1952 to enable his use as a cutout and other Agency functions

in connection with specific OPC projects in contemplation. It 1s

further indicated that Subject was in some wise connected with PBSUCCESS

andmade outstanding contributions to this operation. Nowhere does it

appear that Subject has ever been openly identified with ClA or any

other U. S. Governmental organization.

3.

The hazards involved in Subject's working in Agency buildings

are obvious.

Not only will he become known to other Agency employees

but any outsider interested in checking on Subject's activities and

associations could easily trace him to these buildings by means of

physical surveillance.

A memo should be eritten

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

4. Should Subject's CIA connection become known, it would not

only affect his future usefullness but might also serve to tie him

and the Agency into PBSUCCESS.

5. In reaching a decision as to whether or not the Security Office

should issue Subject a limited badge we should be governed by two

factors; a. DD/P policy as reflected in CSN #10-12, b. Basic Security

Office policy. As to the former, Mr. Wisner's memorandum of Ih July 1954

may be considered as a waiver of

the restrictions contained in CSN

#10-12. Sound security reasoning would normally result in a request

of this nature being denied. However, due to Mr. Wisner's personal

interest in this case and his apparent willingness to assume the risks

involved and to deviate from usual dD/P policy, the Security Office

could not very well refuse to issue the badge without precipitating an

argument between Mr. Wisner's office and the Security Office. In

granting the badge however, the Security Office should go on record

that this is an exception to the general rule and should point out

the specific hazards involved. Furthermore the badge should be isseed

with certain restrictions designed to protect the security of the

ACTION:

It is recommended:

a. That the limited badge be issued to the Subject as

requested.

b. That the badge be issued in pseudo, such pseudo

to be used for this purpose only.

c. That Subject not be identified by his true name

during his tour of duty in Agency buildings.

do That Subject be instructed to confine his activities

and contacts within the Agency to those persons with whom he is

required to associate in connection with his duties.

That the hazards involved in subject's working i

gency buildings be pointed out to PP Staff and that they b

advised that this case represents an exception to the general

f. That it be recommended to PP Staff that they arrange

through Cover Division for a non-official cover for the subjec

in order that he might be able to offer a plausible excuses t

outsiders for his presence in Washington during the following year.

15 Sept. 545

Closed

---

