# 104-10186-10274

## Page 1

104-10186-10274

EINFORMATION: EPORT SINFORM. NONCRERORT

CENTRA: INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

1e moIonal s0OlAIne IOleMAlrS aVArUiDe lno Maltonal Dofoare ol lhe Vollad Mlatos Stnie the mennlas Ne the lepion iiii

• 101 and TPA thA trAnamlanon ol Mer$iation of Pala la Ady Man0re 1O A0 UDAUthOrArO gPIna iB prtlbiE

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

Background Use Only,

Do Not Reproduce

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Gulllermo RUIZ

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00694-64

DATE DISTR 21 AuguSt 1984

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

5

3

2

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

1964

SOURCE.

Washington, D. C.

August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS I$ UNEVALUATED

INFORMLATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINIIVE

APPRLISAL OP CONTENT IS TENTAWVR.

former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Sorvice until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personnlity

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information fron the records of this Agency.

he indiuiduals mentioned in th

Iirat chocking with this Agency.

uillermo Nule, the Commerciad Attache at the Cubar

mbassy in Mexico Clty, Is the Direccion General de Intelironcie

(Gencral Directorate of Intelligence + DGI) case officer in

ncarby area (arca unknown to source).

Headquarters Comments

1.

a representative

robably identical with the above subject, was a membo

f Cuban G2 who was prosently workine with the Ministr

of Hacienda.

His father was a Comnunist aad chief of the

2. An untested

12Z2R1

source who was a former employee of the Ministry

of the Treasury stated in a report dated 8 September 1962,

that Guillermo RUIZ, a militiaman and militant Communist,

was Chlef of the Department of Constructior Expenses

Studies in the office of the General Director of Finance

SECRET

NO FOREICN DISSEM

Reerturlladl An purs

SIATE

1 DIA

ARANY

REP CINCLANT

(Noro, Fiald dispebution indicorod by "=")

I NAVY

CINCSO

1 A18

IMSA

TNNEXX

| Oc*

I FBI 2

I&N'S

1

NEOR

TONAREPORI

1lCI/IIA

2, CI.RR-A

TNFORI

LONSRERORT

WW/SA/EOB & NE/5/R

142

ML/ SALMO8L HELMADA

WIL/SA/B

MILSALCI

HH/WAYE

BIDLAN

1 Do; s'sad

TOSALA

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

-iLX-1640

NO PROJECT (AXYUG/I)

CSCI-316/00691-64

BiaID9+

): ARk

CI/RaA

3/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

..

SECKET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

3. On 23 September 1963, a source who is an official In anti Castro

organizationy

considered reliablt, but who does not

normally report on Intelligence matters,

advised a representative

of this Agency that he had received a lotter from a friend in

Cuba which stated the following information:

Orestey Guillermo RUIZ Perez who was sent to

Mexteo by the Cuban government as & Commercial Advisor

of Cuba in Mexico, 15

a member of G-2 and was sent

to Mexico to try to infiltrate counterrevolutionary

11 08. 09

4.

A fairly rellable source stated that

Guillermo RUIZ of

the Commerical Office - who has recently been emerging as a

fanatical Fidellata spoke out about the recent accord

between Cuba and the USSR, saying that it was convenient for

the USSR do keep on the good side of Cuba and thus keep

dagger in the back of the imperialists.

Ambassador HERNANDEZ

Armas, somewhat taken aback by RUIZ' language, pointed out

thet the relationship between the USSR and Cuba is based, above

all, on the highest principles of international friendship.

Source further added that RUIZ has been showing himself to

be quite aggressive, politically,

in staff meetings and

appears to be a violent partisan of the Castro regime.

5.

City, that he was gerving in the

diplomatic status, and that he was probably G-2.

Source, who

knew RUIZ in Cuba, described RUIZ as having been born about

1939, being about five feet four inches tall, 135 pounds:

and having red hair. According to source, RUIZ was

Communiat in 1960.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

V/BR

!.......!

---

