# 104-10192-10044

## Page 1

104-10192-10044

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

H&S

UFG-G729

18 Februnty 1965

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

DATE OF RIPORT

NAVE :

lenry J. SLOMAN

RENUITS OFFICIA

PROS

HOVIRO OFFICIA.

Andrew K. REUTENAN

MACHATDUNO DATA AND CONNSATIS

TYPIC

Source: Paras. 1 and 2:: ANCHEER-I in ANOT DD-1260, datod 29

January 1965, from Vicente RODRIGUEZ Suarez (A 22 109 861), 8:

newspaperman and acquaintance of ALPIZAR®

RODRIGUEZ Is an AMOT

collaborator. Field Commont No. I was based on UFG-6636.

3 = 5:: ANOT 173 In DD 1215 and

from

DD-1247, dated 19 January 1965,

Erlinda PUIG Nunez and Marcelino GARCIA Jimenez®

reported.on 25 January 1965 that It had been rumored In oxile

circlos that KUBARK "gare BOSCH the green light" for the 17 January

aorial attack, but that there was no hard evidence to corroborate

this,

BID: No index,

HQS. Please pass CINCLANT.

Group 187 Excluded from

Automatle Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL: ENTAILO BELOW MILO NOT BE PILLIO IN IF DUPLICA

TEU IN ACCOMPINVINO REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

SATRA-AGENCY

EKTRA-AGENCY

d - Has.

1 - 00/C

2 - JNBARR (CONKYESTFOR)

(CINCSO) autuate

I cy, onch to Miami reps. of:

So Sec.; Border Ps,rcustoms,

U.S.C

COUNTRT

DO, OF EMCLOBURES

НО. РАСИ!

2

SUBJECT

88-400)

1467

SECRET D

.. і

19-767-20

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADINO OF SOURCE, A Compieler relietta

8: Usuaity reliahle.

Ca Fairty reliania

O Not usually reliablo.

E: Pent reliablo.

to Murces ot doubital honesty de loyalty, regardless of lner competence).

PostoN sources).

l, Reliat-lly Garne do Mista (oplied to unlested 08 +984816-80-508

APPRAISAL OF CONTENTI

tele: di Cannot pe Mids all Contemed by other independent end rollable source $ Protesty true i FussitieVe di Soulslul Si Pestel y

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTHOLLED DISSE

COUNTRYCuba

SUBJECT!•

Allogod 'Participation of

Wollo Alpizar Porez 1o tho

MiRB Air Striko over Cuba on

17 January 1965

Allogod Plan to Assasainto

Fidol Castro Buz

DATE OF 17 January 1965

INFO.

LACE &

VATE ACOUR CORNERA TOS:

Miam!

15 Fobruary 19612

SAGUATED INPORMATION. SOUTE

DATE CE REPORT 18 Fobruary 1983

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

UFG 6729

SOURCES

A mombor of a group

of Cuban onigros trainod in tho tochniques

of Information colloction. Tho group has providud unoful reports

since 1961-

;..

Evollo Alpizar Poroz, 3625 NW JIth SteMiami; phone 635-8023,

• formor Cuban Ar force pilot during Fulgenelo Batista's rogimo,

-claime to have pilotod the plano which mdo the air strike over

he nagare sugar mint in northern Pinar de. Rio Province on

L7 January 1965*

The raid was sponsored by the Movlulento

Insurroccional: do Rocuporacion Rovolucionaria (MIRR, Insurrectional

Movomont for Revolutionary Recovory), a Cuban exilo organization

led by Orlando Bosch Avila.

Alpizar said that Castro spoko tho truth when ho said that a bomb

had fallen on the housu of son poasants in t ho area.

According

o alpizar, no bomb rots on the sugar mild 1ty0lf,

but there was

succoas in

sottine firo to sono sugar cane flolds in the aroa.

Erlinda Pudg Nunoa,

wilo of Marcolino Garcla Jinonoz, Chies.of the

MIRR directorate,

has allogod that thore pure fivo young men in

tho aircraft during

tho rald, and that the pilot was a Cuban exilo

who bad received training in

the Unltod States Army. Sho claimod

that the othor four crow memors, all young mon who had rocently

Joinod the MIRR, had also rocolved training at various Anorican

encampmonte. Ono of the crew, who was only

19 goars old,

injurod

his hand while removing tho cap fron ono. of the clorox bottles

containing the lise phoaphorgya used in the rald.

Pulg also snid that a group of 11 MIRR commandos had Infiltratod

Into Cuba in preparation for the air striko but that none of them.

had been captured

as was reportod.

• CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

Lostadnd from sortest int

adore and

hesia: srication

- DISTRIBUTION

" to

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEH

-2-

LTC 6739

According to Marcelino Garcla Jimonez, as of about aId-January

the MIRR was proparing

a plan

to assassinate Castro,.

The person

rosponsiblo for accomplishing thia plan is a Cuban who 1s

sufforing (ron'a heart disoase and whose lifo expoctancy has

thoroforo

beon shortenod;

•;::

Another source recently reported that Jack wright,

an

American, tad been the pilot of the aircraft which made

the raid on the Niagara sugar mill on 17 January.

wright

was subsequently killod on 2 February white attempting to

land his twin engine Beochcraft at Freoport,

Grand Bahamas

sand he was reportery on the first leg of another al

strike attempt over fis by the MIRR

=0.

The 8 January 1965 odition of the Minmi Herald reported that

four antl-Castro commandos bad-been coptured.attempting to

Infiltrate Into Cuba's north coust.

Soven others escaped and

wore boing pursued by governmont forces in the varadero and

Cardenas zones of Matanzas Province.

It was not. know+f-

the seven lad successfully infiltrated Cuba or had left the

Cs025-31201529-45

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

---

