# 104-10003-10220

## Page 1

1104-10003-102201

÷ 8=

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Release As Sanitized

1996

195;

MENORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Director

Foleral Burean of Irresilgution

: Auda d Fresident John I. Kennedy

?. Our flee indicate that thie photogrepa (Attachment A) elme

from a color trenup rency tie in Mint, USSR, on or about 11 Anguet

1961, by an Amerlean Courhol, MT8. Menca F. KRAMER, mbose address

brnia.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, FBI, dated 20 MARCH

lates in Tacutral say

In the comter of Minuk.

J. 1964, is NOT THE SAME AS THE MEMORANDUM TO RANKIN,

lind as The Pilace ol

rapi. The indivietal

dated 29 APRIL 1964. The FBI Memorandum (CSCI-

•y OSWALD. It should be

3/780,612) is the same as Document No. 0614-0261,

ppears to be teentiel to

ho from the group of 47

which is filed in Volume XXXI of Oswald's 201.

I were formned to ts

lo lille mucober (8) 103-82555.

This document is numbered wrong!

R.B. Holmas

ENNEDY. Coples of these

l the report as Attachment B.

24.05.89

• of the females In the picture.

- an Inturint ge Source

un accompanded by snother American,

, NIC NE NAMAN, 595 ArIdeg

0614-0

Document Numbor -

671-286

/Road, Salvang,

TOL ASGITIE CORA DE CHIP MI:N0.2S.

for FOLA Reviey on JUN 1976

B66 304737-04 !50

an' sa, ten men Fate

SECHET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGILI

20448 1965

MEXORANDUM FOR: DIreCtOr

Federal Purest of Iveatigation

SUBJECT

Aerosesten ol Freeldent John Y. Kennedy

lo In he corce of or verb ol flo pertting to oreno of

the USh in which Lee Harvey OSWALD allegedly rended, a photograph

il an intuidel closely resembling OSWALD was enterered.

%. Our loo lolleno that thie platough (Ate went A) come

from a calor trn rency tho in Mine, USal, on on about 11 Anguat

1961, by an Americ Coriol, Wro, Moe. F. KRAMER, Shore ediress

al the time a F. O. Be 905, Galans Cleria.

3. The photograph appears to bave been taken la Tacatral inaya

Ploshchad! (Central Squaro), which to located in the confer of Mink.

The butlding in the background lns been ilentifled as The Palace of

Culture, Sla people are deplored in the photogaph, The individunl

second from the tight, appero to le Lee Marray OSCALD, I should be

noted that the uhirt tute Induttani in menning apponro to be tilentical to

the sir OSWALD Is vering le to neto phe Wo the group of 47

photographs from the effects of OSWALD which were forwarded ta this

Agensy in your communication of 9 March 1960, Ale number (6) 105-82555.

eubject: Arenatten of Prentient John f. KENNEDY. Coples al there

too phetographs al ONWALD are fernarded nith this ropore no Attachment B.

4. Sonxce al the photograph blentilled ons ol the females in the peture.

posably the one on the left, ss Stellan: (LNU), un Intartat muttle, Searce

no accompanied by another Amerlton, Mice Mits NAMAN, 595 Atardog

671-286

/Read, Salvang:

Document Number

for FOlA Revie on

JUN 1976

FOX SIBITIE tObA T

TIT DAI.

306 20070780:

2244

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SESHEI

Rend, Satany, Chliforno, sho la peralaly the femnlo necond freus

the loft in the photograph. Noo of the othor tedividale con be

further dentified.

MINe. HRAMER UNA MINS NAMAN, both of whom aro Volted

senten clineno, vero contected by thin Agency on a ass-time barlo,

falloning their recera from thair tear el the Unsa, The roport of

this contact, 00-3-5,712, 967, datel 11 Match 1066, majort.

Realitien/Tiloy Farado/Inberrogntien in Miank Fellening the Giving

Anay al a US Neto Maganino, do fervardel ns Attachment C.

6. STO, KRAMER, nho to desentbed do "na older companion"

In the arence desertation el Aßtachment G, forulahed Ala Agency with

160 cater t

parantee then during the tip. Atchment A le enly

one ol the five tronorencion of mhich nestive coplos mere made and

ratatned by thin Agancy. All el the 160 original color traneparentes

nor retened to Mra. KRAMER.

. Mios NAMAN, reterrol to so * enter erdote to

euros deceiptlen a Mechment 6, provided Olo Agery tho

roel el Amn coler movie film then doring the taip. The flim was

Moved by this Agency and vas subrequently returnod to tiles NARAN.

KRAMER I ARE AN had no fur er contact at other reino

report farmanded as Attselment €.

, Thin olilte would be intereated in any pertinent informatle

hich tutervene d Mer. FAME. A ME NASAN bY TOP dEC

might pooathly provide along the faltering llasm:

Attachme a patted at as a ai deal da

I- The cact date and entinate el the time of day when the

photograph (Attachment A) vas then.

Ic. Any taformatton

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

mavene in the photegraph (Aleciment A)

el. The sno, aldrens, and any scher adentifying data

on the traveling companion who lecer pled bro. SHAVER

and Mine NAMAN from Moscow to Werew via Mlik.

10. Diesemintles ol Atchment A and pertinent ident ying

Amformation to Cho Frontento Carminaton on the Asantandlos of

Freudent Kennedy ta boing delayed panting recept of your Surena's

findingo in this matter. .

FOR THE DEPUTT DIRECTOR FOR PLAN:

Sigued: Ja R. Hunt. Tr

JAMES ANGLETON

GSC1 - 3/780,012

3 Enclosuvos as elted above do parao. 8, 1 & 5

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses

1 - C/CI

1 - C/C1/5IG

1 - C/CI/R&A

X.C/SR

1 - C/SR/CI

2 - C/SR/CI/R (hold cy & comeback cy)

1 - SB/O/US/dI

1 - 201-269,248

SR/CI/ Research!

scl

19 March 1964

in.'

---

## Page 5

13-00000

ATTACHMENT "A"

The 3'' x 5" photograph depicta a group of persons standing near an

automobile on Isentrainaya Ploshchod (Central Square) in Minsk during an

afternoon on or about 10 August 1961.

The 8". x 10" enlargement of the lower right quarter of the above

mentioned photograph provides a closer vlew of the persons grouped around

the automobile. The second person from the right, standing with his hands

in his pockets and wearing checkered short-aleeve sport shirt appears to be

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

815

AGY

ATTACHINA

---

## Page 7

13-00000

MENT "B"

Copies of two photographs fcuno

on the is to dong late,

ment in Minsk in 1962.

These photographs bear FBI

number D-33 #16 and #30

---

## Page 8

13-00000

---

