# 104-10167-10141

## Page 1

104-10167-10141

DATE :

TO

FROM:

18900/10/00/19

49 JULY 1959

DIRECTOR

HAVANA

ACTION.

CAM 2/(WH DIV NOTIFIED 1320 29 M)

• COP, C/C1, S/C 2

•CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

HOUTING

TO

JuL 29: 17|5:59

REC'D LAGLE St.CT.

OPERATIONAL. IMMEDIATE

21-3

IN 47185

OPIM DIR

INFO

CITE

HAVA 2486

RYBAT

RE: DIR 37485 (OUT80037")

ger CSM 4-28

:% MARCOS FAMILY NOT ABLE TRAVEL INMEDIATELY DUE FACT

ONLY WIFE HAS PASSPORT. PASSPORTS CANNOT BE OBTAINED FOR

CHILDREN UNTIL MARCOS SENDS WIFE NOTARIZED STATEMENT AUTHORIZING

HER (1) APPLY FOR THEIR PASSPORTS AND (2) TAKE THEM OUT OF CUBA.

BOTH POINTS MUST BE SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED AND STATEMENT MUST

INCLUDE NAMES AND AGES. PASSPORTS CAN BE OBTAINED WITHIN SEVEN

DAYS OF RECEIPT OF STATEMENI.

2. SUGGEST STATEMENT BE SENT TO SENORITA AURORA COLINA,

JARDIN ALCAZAR, NUMERO 578, ENTRE CALLES 12 Y 25, VEDADO BY

SPECIAL DELIVERY OR VIA ODACID UNACCONPANIED AIR POUCH ADDRESSED

TO ZAMKA.

3. STATION HOULD APPRECIATE INTO RE PLANS FOR SURNACING.

• IF SURFACED PRIOR DEPARTURE FAMILY THIS COULD PRESENT LOCAL

PADBLEMS WITH AUTHORITIÉS 1S WELL AS INCREASE HAZARD STATION

CONTACT WITH WIFE. IF SURFACED TAMPA THIS COULD ENDANGER STA-

TIONS RELATIONS WITH ANCOO SINCE FEW SHIPS MAKE TRIP BETWEEN

HAVA ANO TAMPA. STATION RECOMMENDS SURFACING AT HOUSTON OR

SECRET

ENSITIZED

REPPODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,. 3 Copy Na

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Oriy

Do Not Reproctos

VBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DATE

TO

FROM

ACTIONS

INFO

20 JULY 1959

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 9

SECRET

ROUTING

PAGE

-2-

TO

DESENST I

-per ESt 43-28

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 47105

HAVA 2486

INFO

"GIE

OTHER POINT AWAY FROM FLORIDA. HQS SHOULD ALSO BEAR IN MIND

AMBASSADOR NOT COGNIZANT. OUR PARTICIPATION IN AFFAIR.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *HOS REQUESTED HAVA SET UP DEPARTURE MIFE AND CHILDREN OF MARCOS

TO MEXI SOONEST.

DESEMSITIZED

For Can 42-23

SECRET

EPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

