# 104-10165-10042

## Page 1

104-10165-10042

?

0:

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED INS

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

#f#

FEB. €0

PRION TO FILING

1.

F111 in Sect.

2.

back., Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

2.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

records

significant

action taken or

corseats requiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file so. and title shown are not

proper, insert proper file no. belew

and formard document to RID/AN.

FROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

FILE IN SECTION I ON BACR, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTE

H/4 ESGISTRY

TO

ROOM

NO.

R1C408:

DATE

OFFICER'S

¡FORWARDED

INITIALS

1.

IH/4 ESCISTRY

300t

2.

40c

best 19/17.88861

L

COPY DETACHED

he who is MARTIN

Ace traud, been seat.

6.

0.3

att

FYE-aw idea of

What her is sayin

03

10.

11.

12.

18.

Jase MiRe Carlona

+R+) 261-237512

10.

WELA REGISTRY

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REGUEST

DATE MICROFILMIO

ABBTRACT

INDER

FILE TITLE

281- 275/36

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT

28 Supt 61

UFGA

02332

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

ChLaf, HD

SECRET

PoSiO

PROCESSING

ACTION

THIS IA MOLIS

MASPLANTINS

& sa

CAS DUCE INOCHINE

ASTRACT

* ADVEN

PUSHED

FACING

chief of Station,

MAZIP/OPTRATIONAL/KUCADE/CA

Luds CONTE Azuero and DEe JOBe HIRD Cardons

ACTION MIQUIRED REFLILHCES

Letion Regudreds As Indicated

201-237515

201-278130

•PRIORITI

Lo Attached 18 a sumary of Luis CONTE Aguerols meeting idth Dre Jose

MIPO Cardona, as reportod by, OONTS to Identityo

Zo Paragraph? of the report contains apparent elains by CONTE to

support for his group proadsed by "artin".

Can Headquarters forward by

cable any cocatmente sade to support cONTEsa group?

30

UAT3 hen arandy querded Fadguarters conceraing paragraphs a eod

le of the attached reporte

inless advised to the contrary by cable, wAvE

d1l supply CONTE tbe $1000 proniaed him for the support of hia book being

pablished in Mando

Le An for CONTE!s worry about li Incone tar on salary for the laU.

program, he mus told that this was his problen and that ve are all subject

to death and taxes.

End of Dispatch

Identity: I5t

Attacksents

Summary of Lula CONTS Aguero!&

meeting with DI. Jose MIRo

Cardona

Distributions

3 Ego/w/c00/att

2-91108/1/0n0/att

Luis CENTE Aguere

STISCOPY 201-278130

tRy, 261-237512

CLASSFICATION

SICRET

DATE TYRED

22 Sopt 1961

DESPATEN EYRIDOL, AND MUMBO

UPGA 2332

HLADOUNNTENS PLE NUMECH

301-2751310

"SEP 20 1951

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Attacksent to 570-2332

Jednesdug Septenher 20, 1951

2-

5-

Corte

net with "iro fer ilee hourg.

Miro rasified that he wanted

Cerite

to join the council and prejosed no conditione. natter iid

Conteo Miro sabrad Conte de Inguer hig on Prider Sept. 23.

LiFo aleo tale Conte that an "fairican" vas cosing down to slasi to

"que charge o! all affeirs are and that he wald rork ir clos

contact

go hin 2ino)o to also tci1 Conde sukt that the poxer so the rey "est

st: :ion

¿e' increuses

end diet directioral anteres = ould be

Ing°ilied. Ee (Hiro) ra-re: Conte to address "= Cubar reogie over he:

stat1o.e

Ile also dald tha. de

was zetting fuil broking (trea inor. Gor".

1n all nattere and that he läiro) would be in fill crarge of ell oilitry

and •profaranda satters.

Hiro told conte that he had asked the folloring to form part of the councils

Directorio Estudiantil Revoiscionario.

Frente Obsero , F12J6

¡iner aust nopoint caree fron arich he sillerose one?.

the professioan aar (not maed)

Sino Diez

George Sotus

Conte

conte told ze shot if he geis becking frin the Gout. lo. in and his

freup he will not join :be council.

If he dees not cet scring then

maybe he will cin after all (he hesalt nade up his aind..

• Ey beeking

be reens niliam nd ecceezie, for his group wich is called Frente

Anticoaunists Cristiano, Tis seeas to have been provised by XatIlil

Martin

Has the Uruguer book been pinted get?

The nane of the book is, "AliarIa

de la Liberted®

• and ies entrusted to Alfredo Ferez Lagrave in Uruguay.:

10,000 books sere supposes so. be printed but as jet he has heard nothine

on this setter.

Kinal book, "¿aérien Costss el Conunismo",

10,000 are being printed and

minishurtiniannis shoald te finished within ten days.

Ze was given

$2000.00 but is still owes $1000.00.

Conte is worried about icene tre on the $3070.00 he is setting br his

"ali progron and waits to know trat to do about it. (what he really vante

is to 5e8 Out of payine 180)

---

## Page 4

14-0000

Separate Cover Attachnant to Ural- 2332.

TO:

Codot, WED

03

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orly

Do Not Reproduce

---

