# 104-10216-10038

## Page 1

104-10216-10038

DISPATCH

SECRET

TO

IFD.

FRDIA

JETuty Ghief, Rh/C

Chief,

turovest lavision

Etter of station, diATi

SUBJECT

Chief of Station

Identification el tomanist tarty unt OSE crabera

ACTION REQUIRED • REFEREKCES

PROCESSFIGACTION

MARKED FOR ACEXINO

NO INDENISE REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIRO

MICROFILM

Lo The follosing was projared by Paul do Killick.

2, Die information below was acquired through qUiLB interrogation of

UC-3120, Angel AVIlD Merrero, a Cuban refugee and former restient of Havang

1ty who left Cuba on 8 Hay 1957.

intil ictober 1906, he was employed by

the klouis (construction windotry), lavand.

do ITO #CONDE, secretary of the Malls labor union, 18 a lit

member and holds the rank of Army lieutenant.

ke 1a de

scribul as lucasian, about g'lu" tall, weight about 145

pounds, 34-35 yours old, straight black hair.

The information belon was acquired through Unfß interrogation of

C62982, Julio Analdo HEFliNDEZ Arencibia, a luban refugee and former resident

of marianso, who left Cuba on 21 August 1966 on board the luban actorship LAö,

on which he was employed as a riper.

be deserted the ship on 19 Novanber 1966

in Senturce, bilbao, spain.

In 1958, when source was l6 years old, he belonged

to tie 26th of duly sovement and was a close friend of 2oth of July nabers,

kis friendship with

the latter continued at leaat until April 1966, when Luis FERNANDid arranged for

source to vort for the marbisas Navigation enterprise.

Attachnent: Spaniah language Ran Report

Matribution:

1 = COS, dinaVi, n/o att

Group 1 - Exeluded fron

etonatie dougrading

and declassification

CROSS REFERENCE TO

AHILASH-I

CUBELA SECADES, ROLANDO

26-252234

TOSPATCH STABOR AND NUMBER

BATE

0S44-22724

20 June 1967

GLIGEIFICATION

SAGEST

PIES FLE HUMBER

65-6-38/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DiSPATCH

SECRET

DISPATCH SIMOOL AND NUMUEN

OSHA 22714

Alberto "AITARA,

Did lieutenant, borke as an investigator for tre

USE, lie is dest'bes as Caucaolen, about j' tall, weight about

110 pounds, about 3u years old, wary binet hair, efflicted with

facial acno, Lives at do. ol Galle s1t108, batween Layo and sen

ie drives & 1957

Chevrolet painted Light crean oolor.

URS HERNANDEZ Crus, 1o employed do Auditor Interrogador (Judge

Advocate?) by the is and acts as publie accuser in important

trials, he 1s deseribed ao Caucasian, about 5'49 tall, weight

190 pounds, 24 year. old, straight brown hair, lives at to. 6

Callo Maloja, between Aguila und Ingeles, Hevala, drives a 1958

Ford painted white and black.

Lads #FEHHADE, Cler of the ist Investigative group, 1o do

saribed as isueasien, about 6'1" tail, atrongly bullt, weight

about 200 pounds, very lon forshead and kairline, large round

Paco, thick lips, sall sunken eyes, 24 years old, lives at

either lo. 2U5 or lo, 255 Calle Forida, between Leperanza and

Vives, Havana Vity, on the top 1200r.

He is married to hary

(Im), has no children, le has thres autosobiles: a 1959

Plymouth painted whito, a bottle green 1957 tontiac, and a

black 1957 buick. In February or March 1967 he participated

In the capture of a group of persona attempting to leave luba

do Personnel of the Cuban motorship INIAS:

(1) Captain Onear I "UHiE appears not to be a Coumnist; he

speaks. vory bedly of the luban and soviet systens, and

treats the crew very well, He ia described as Caucaalan,

6' tall, weight about 200 pounds, about 27 yeare old,

straight black hals, wears glasses and, on occasion,

contact lenses.

*ARIAS Lescmo (Im), Kirst Mate, is one of the most hated

men on board. He is very pro-rogine and unhesitatingy

denounces crew members. He is described as Caicardan, 512"

wall, weight aboat 230 pounds (nie), about 33 years old,

wavy blond hals, wears a mall bearde

(3) JULSO SARDIAS, Iii Hate, recently Eraduated from the

harial Acadery,

16 described as a lll nember, linicanian,

5'5 tell, weight about 130 jounds, about 25 geara old,

balding but wich some blond hair renaining.

Echoin ki. BATTERKE

Hey Cousinh -

+1 65-6-3813) SANTANA@ FEGNANDEZIR

presenta.

Futil insino leo prized

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CONTIALED

---

