# 104-10119-10322

## Page 1

104-10119-10322 • UNCLASSIFIED

INTr VAL

USI

ILY

ROUTING AN RECORD SHEET

CONFID""/AL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROMChial, Central Cover Staft

Corpoiale Cover Banth

TO: (Officer designation

building)

EXTENSION

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INMALS

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

27 26 October 1970

COMMENTS [Number

Drow a

comment.)

Office

Atti:

2.

of

Security

MIe

Mahoney

4-E- 27 HQ.

10.

11.

12.

13

14.

15.

6. 0CT 1970

FORMA

3-62

I USE PREVIOU.

DITION!

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNALS

USE ONLY

17.

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CS-2925 (Lukoskie)

26 October 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Office of Security

:

Mr. Frank Mahoney

: CSA on E. Howard Hunt

1.

Attached is a copy of a memorandum to the DDP

from CCS,, dated 14 October 1970, concerning CCS utiliza-

tion of Mr. E. Howard Hunt.

2. Approval was given as noted on page 2 of the

memorandum.

Willard F.

Burke

Chief

Central Cover Staff

Corporate Cover Branch

Attachment:

As

stated

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

1226.5466

14 OCT 9X

'EMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT

: E. Howard Hunt - Utilization by Central

Cover Staff

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your

approval; this

recommendation is

contained in paragraph 4.

2.

Mr. E. Howard Hunt has been employed by Robert R.

Mullen & Company since his 30 April 1970 retirement from

the Agency and CCS understands that Mr. Hunt is going to

succeed Mr. Mullen

as principal officer of the company.

Mr. Hunt contacted CCS on 7 July 1970 to report his belief

that the company could provide cover as a result of its

connections with the Brussels Times. In discussions. of

this matter with Mr. Mullen and Mr.

Hunt, it developed that

NT. Mullen,

who as a long time friend of Mr. Hunt, was cog-

nizant of his Agency background, had informed Mr. Hunt of

the existing cover arrangement without authorization from

CCS.

3.

CCS in anticipation of the need of briefing Mrs Hunt

had requested

5 June 1970.

an extension of his existing clearance one

The Office of Security has advised CCS that

its reinvestigation of Mr. Hunt has been completed, but it

believes that you have an interest in Mr. Hunt and ista

unwilling to grant a clearance to CCS without being assured/

that you do not have an overriding interest or objection.

Inasmuch as Mr. Hunt is already witting of they

current cover arrangement with the company which he reportedly

will soon head and because the use of the company. in.

other

locations

where it has

cover potential would require his

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

Security of a clearance

Hunt to the Central Cover Staff.

ERICH W. ISENSTEAD

Chief, Central Cover Statf

The recommendation contained

in paragraph

1S

approved.*

TAL

Thomas H. Karamessines

Deputy Director for Plans

*Please keep the DDP posted.

14 ill > 0

Date

---

