# 104-10273-10137

## Page 1

1104-10273-10137

OPE

is as 00

035!

DEBC

CUTING EN

2

LETTE

FROM/ORIGINATOR:ID CHARACTERS)

80x43-2 * На

RACTERS

ATTACHE,

Fill in and Sign on line 18.

2. Uso doch ol fom for any additionol commenta.

DAY

01.

TO/RECIPIENT (20 CHARACTERS)

ĐDO Y

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

6

7

10

110 OURACTIN

OS

SUBJECT (BO CHARACTERS)

#SCA REVIEW:

MELEN V. DOD HEMMINE, GERALO PATRICK

ТУРЕ

oF

REVIEW

DAY

MONTH

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C.

Deny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

•H.

Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DATE

OF

REVIEW

17

2

* 4. JUN 1987

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

.F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

- G. Release additional information

mokeck

ONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

Johnd.

VIEWING OFFICEN

E.0. 12956

Exemptions

and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

classification

Information fron liaison with a Foreign Government

Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source b

5.

Information pertaining to a source

6:

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic

Installation

9. Namer of CIA employee

AND INITIALS

10. File number S

Pseudonym

Cryptony»

23

Internal organizational data

Name of an FBl agent

6

FBI file number.

Privacy of other individual

Does not pertain to request

Other (Specify in line 21)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(3)(1)

(3) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (31

(b) (3)

(3) (1)

(1) (1)

030)

(3)(1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3).

(3)

(3)

(b)

(6):

•(3) (1)

(3) (1)

(3) (1)

(3) (1)

(S)(1)

(c) (j) (1)

(1). (1)

(b.

REMARKS UP OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) 149 CHARACTERS)

11

12

13

14

3+ PRGeS

3991A

This Form in Unclosal ed Unless The Clesslicaron n.6

and The Informorion below is complored

Cь BY:

DECL DADA

LAUFEIN

MACONFIDENTIAL SEA-FT

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

LAJ +66A

SUINECT: (Opponel)

HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

FROM:

Jerry G.

Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group.

TO:

building)

(Office dosignation, room cumbor.

, and.. t

DATE ...

RECEIVED

ONWARDED

1.

C/SAG

2.

Clops/Ps/

3.

11810920

ENTENSIC.

4400.

OFFICER"

INALS

NO

DATE

429 229.

1i June 19762

COMMENTS MEGATORY

(2) 2p

7.

8.

POISAG

6/2l26

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM 610 usefionous

FULL TEXT COPX - DO

NOT RELEASE

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

80x43-2

UNCLASSIFIED

16

---

## Page 3

3-00000

¿LUNET

11 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis GrOup

SUBJECT

• HEMMING:

SF#429 22!

Gerald Patrick

1.

On 9 June 1969 "Dan" of the DDO Guatemala Desk (x9041)

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

"Dan" was referred to the writer, who is holding the HEMMiNG

file.

When "Dan" contacted the writer, "Dan" advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from the l

_Station,

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

"Dan" was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HEMMING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

"Dan". was

requested to alert CI Staff and JMWAVE

to the below-mentioned

copy of the report coming in

cable anone previat the writer with a

from the

Station.

2.

"Dan" provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357, Cite

119536, dated 8 June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that

8 June 1976

a Guatemalan source, with

the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

Station

a written

report, and a detailed briefing,

concerning

a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

Jorge Antonio

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August

1975.

3. According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was

involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. The HEMMING brothers

were flown to Guatemala in a

assisted ZIMERI in acquiring small among other things, which

• aircraft.

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

EULL JEXT COPY - DU NOT RELEASE

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW EC 13356

CONDUCTED ON _

JIN 1987

DECL O DOWNGR TO MEN

REVW ON

CITATION

13(81(4)

SORET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063994

---

## Page 4

13-00000

ESORET

NOTE: The

Station

n'also included

information the Chief of

Station had received

from ESDEW-1 on 8 June.

ESDEW-1 said that he

had been providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI,

one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

ESDEk'-1 did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in

the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States

legally, deport him to Guatemala.

C. Is ZIMERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d. Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry

as well as

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976 "Dan" of the Guatemala Desk advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

/. From the name, physical description, activity,

alleged

employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been

described as six-foot five,

250 pounds,

who is

a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

EULL JEXI COPY - DO NOI RELEASE

2

SEORET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JMHAVE.

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's, HEMMING

nad claimed Agency affiliation when in fact there has beer

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

aka: Frank FIORINI, of Watergate notoriety who also has a

long-time record of

falsely claiming Agency affiliation.

In

the late 1950's HEMNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned

shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named

the International

Anti-Communist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

9. For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, Jr.;

and an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

The book Coup d'etat

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F.

Kennedy

with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major

links attempted by

the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald

Patrick HEMMING to Loan Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Atts

erry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

FULL JEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

3

SECRET

---

## Page 6

TOTAL COPIES DO - YOU

SECRET

PRODUCTION ON OTHER TI

espa

А

STATE PRECESZICI

FILE.

va relin, cia, cloes,

Ps/162, 056, OPE/ITG4,

т 981395

5:1767

PAGE 01

TOR: 082242₴ JUN 76

IN 944357

19536

SECRET ISIZZ0Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE

19536

TO :

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

ESDEW ESMICA

REFS: A.

19510 (IN 937052)

B ,

29375 NOT SENT.

(IN 890367)

1: ESMICA-EE 8E-681 PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND E-68, NATIONAL

LIBERÄTION MOVEMENT (MIND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

ZIMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75.

RELEASE

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD. PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBEP 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE.

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT AND E-68 CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS. BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GETALD PATRICK HEMMING (ND STATION) TRAGES, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACOURING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 9O GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 852 REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

NOL

8

COPY -

• JEXI

FULL

Don-

duatemala pasic.

x1041

SECRET

CONDUCTED ON REVIE SON E7

CONDUCTED ON -

CL REVIEW BY -

REVW ON -

CITATION.

DARR

13(2)44)

---

## Page 7

13-00000

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

8 7

HEPRODUCTION UT OTHER

T'as d

ISSUING OFFICE IS

PROMOTE:

"ONÜNIT NOTHIED

ANCE CO"Y

ISSUEDISLOTTED

STION

UPON

RF. FILE .

STAFF

VR

+ 6

IN 944357

19536

981395

E1A767

PAGE D2

TOR: 8822427 JUN76

A. 15 ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PJEFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHDRITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.:.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI•

¿• IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE.IN

GUATEMALA...

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY RESUEST HE BE

DEPORIED TO GUATEMALA. E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HES

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2. ESTATION PLANS DISSEM INTO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT WITHENT

MENTIONING HEMMINGS BY NAME, PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHAFEE

AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUEST: ONS

FOR LAUGERUD..

3..

ESDEW-4 AND E-68 ALSO REPORTED 7 JUNE IN SOME DETAIL

SOLUTION OF NOVELLA KIDNAPPING CASE PREF BI, THERE POLITICAL

IMPLICATIONS THIS CASE ALSO SO WE DISSEMING. E-68 CLAIMS

SECRET.

RELEASE

NOT

• DO

ON

COPY

TEXT

FULL

---

## Page 8

13-00000

WE SEE DISSED BITi

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OY

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMOTE.

STAFF

ANCE COPY

ISSUED SLOTTED

TOM UNIT

N

RF . FILE

AY

VR

STION •

T 981395

PAGE B3

IN 944357

70R:0822923

2 JUN

76

19536

THERF AMERICAN = ISSIBLY INVOLVED THIS CASE, ONE FRANK BUCK

(PRORABLY IDENT:CAL TO SUSJECT OF 201- 0619515, A REGISTERED

‹DEA SAURCES, iME CLAIMS BE DOSTOR BUT DOES NOT PRACTICE HERE.

HE ALLEGEDLY LO:=- OF SISTER OF INTELLECTUAL AUTHOR OF NOVELLA

KIDNAPPING PLAN. JORGE ALFONSO LO BO DUBON, IN WHICH ANOTHER

LOBO BROTHER, DISE FERNANDO LO BO DUBON, ALSO INVOLVED.

E-G8 HAS REQUESTED WHATEVER INFO WE MIGHT HAVE ON BUCK. (STATION

PLANS INCLUDE THI" NAME ALSO IN MEMO TO CHARGE AND RSO

BUT wILL

OMIT IT FROM DISSEM.

: 4. FOR

ONE SOURCE OF INFO ON ZIMERI CASE MAY WELL

HAVE BEEN ESDEW-1.

COS SAW LATTER BY ACCIDENT 8 JUNE. ESDEW 1

SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PROVIDING INFO TO GOG ON ZIMERI FOR PAST

SIX MONTHS OR SO AND ADDED THAT TWO AMERICANS INVOLVED WITH

ZIMERI, ONE OF WHOM RUNS

A GUARD SERVICE IN MIAMI, HE DID

NOT MENTION NAMES BUT DESCRIBED ONE AS ABOUT SIX FEET FOUR INCHES

ALiU WEIGHING ABOUT 238 POUNDS. ESDEH-1 PLANS RETURN MIAMI WITHIN

TWO WEEKS SINCE IN OVER TWO YEARS. HERE HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO

FIND JOB WITH SUFFICIENT SALARY PERMIT HIM LIVE COMFORTABLY.

5. PLS ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR WITH THIS METHOD OF HANDLING

REQUESTS FOR INFO ON AMERICANS AND OTHER LAUGERUD REQUESTS.

SECRET

JEXT COPY - DO NOT. RELEASE

77n

---

## Page 9

13-00000

»EG DIESE

BY.

- PER.

MUNIT MORTIO

09490 838:19

BSN.0110.

RF . FILE

1..

159B: COPIES

SECRET

er. -..

REFAODUETION

OTHER

STAFF

VR

13|

13

18

IT SPOON a

T

981395

E1A767

PAGE B4-B4

TOR: 0622427 JUN 76

IN 944357

19536

6.

FILE:

201-08195=5, ZIMERI 201, 35-4-22. EZ. IMPDET.

E

C

R

T.

FULL JEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

