# 104-10192-10114

## Page 1

104-10192-10114|

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MERJAY NO

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

TRUN

I".TE OF HEADRI

UFG-6755

25 February 1965

REPORTIMO OFFICE ANDE

Henry J

SLOMAN

REPORTS OFFICER

N.TE

PROS

Margaret R. NaNkALi/sba

APPROVING ON

BET CA.

Andrew K! REUTENAN

HACKOROUNO DATA AND COMMINTI

TYPIC

05

AMOT-28 111 EE-2567. datod 27 Januars 1965 and DD-1279

dated 17 Februnry. bnsod on

SW #2 mallod In

San Juan on 20 January

and SW #J malled In Sar Juan on 15

February respectivoly, to RegInO HESINAg

3909 NW 19th AVOeg

Mirimi 85

(pleaso protect) is to be

the skippor of the

25-foot craft mentionod in paragraph 2.

RID:

No index.

GROUP-I: EXCLUDED FROM

AUTOMATIC DOWNGRIDING &

DECLASSIFICATION

OFTIONAL:

ED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANTING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

EXTRA-AGENCY

2

4 = Has (Pass copy to CINCLANT)

00/G

• COS

i6-10

Junt pirate.

-JNBARK (Pis pass CONKWESTFOR)

(Pls pass CINCSO)i u

Miami Reps:

State,

USOG,

FBI

Customs, Border

Patrolg

I&NS

Asieta

COUNTRY

NO. OF INGOTURES

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

d!'

NGO

PADA

DOI

AFFA

SECRET

1467

9.40

une

PHENIONS.

NO. PAGEA

1

1801

14-3c0-10

5/1V

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

"GRADIO OF SOURCE: A Completely reila: la

• B: Usually reliarla.

a farte rel-atie.

lo driveces of doubtrut torerio de lirallo, regardiers of their converence).

+95109 8149189).

AFPPRILAL OF CONTENT:

l: Confirmed by olhoe independent and reliable sourcea

a Cannot de ludaril.

a pronably true. 3: Possibly leva, & outtrul. $ Profialty

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTMOLLIO DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO

& sUBJEcT quipment and Training of Personnel DArE OF REAR Fobruary 1065

of the lovimiento Donocrata Cristiana

(NDC) In Puorto Rico

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

15 February 1965

INFO.

Jnited Statos,

Miami

PLACE &

UFG-6735

DATE ACO. (23 February 1965,

ТЕД СМрОВВАА. ВИПСВ ВКАЙСЕ

SOURCES

A member. of i group of Cuban onieres trained in the sochalques

o1 information

collection.

The group has provided useful

reports sinco 196l.

1. As of about 15 February 1965, Lauronna Motista Falla, military

lendor of the Movimiento Domocrata Cristiana MDC, Christian

Democratic Movemont), was preparing a group of 10 mon in San

Puerto Rico,

for operations against Cuba.

One Captain

JunD! (Inu), vas in charge of mllitary affairs and ma eiviog

classes: in

navigation.

2.

The ADC, bos

one 25-foot boat equipped with twin 110-horsepower

enginos, which operates from Puorto Rico or tho Dominican

Republic; one 21-loot beat uguipped with a 30-horsopover

Perkins engino and bolloved to be owed by lanuel Padron;

21-loot boat with a Chrysler engine of uninow.

3..

horsepower.

Batista Palla said he lost faith in the men he had in Maul,

but he appears to be guite satisflod with the group in San

Juan.

is it that

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

des lorestial 10e

DISTRIBUTION

---

