# 104-10185-10254

## Page 1

104-10185-10254

i didn

ILSDET

NI/SA 64-393

11 day 1064

-1::

¡NIORANDUM FOR : Chief, Contral Cover Stafs/NOC

ATTATION

SUBJKCT

: Dan Shea

: Requeat for Cover 10r AlHUG!

1.

Preliminary discussions on cover requirezenta

Shea and kega held betteen TH/SA/CI represchtatives

Tad proposed noneticial cover,

of the Contral Cover Staff.

will be very satistactory. Tic follow

Ing cover Infomation 1a legod to

the mesorandu entitled

"Honofficial Cover for Individual".

1. GuDoral Inforration on the Agent

(1) The cryptonym of the agent to

In covered is AldUll.

He has had no

previous pacudonya of allas.

(2) NOUGal has been engaged under

a "Menorandur of Oral Conuitment".

He

recEives a salary of $500.00 pes sontb,

plus & furnished spartient as h1s ses1-

dence, shich can also be used as a safehous

or talning site.

(3) ANNUCI hAS a POl In PrOCESS, SUD

Bitted on l lay 1SC4, and vill be und au an

agent in support of bIVA/CI operations,

particularly the recruitrent or dcfection

of Cuban intelligence personnul and diplorata.

No dependente of AllUtel are tnouledgeable

0f his CIA or U.S. Government cornections.

2/1V

ICE IN MUS/ ORP

---

## Page 2

11-00008

(4) MUG l has not been examined by

the Agency a Medical Division to determine

his fitness for everseas duty.

He sill be

mubject to

exanination at the I1r8t avail-

able opportunity.

ArmUGl la scheduled for an

ICILUTTER tust on 8 lay 1964.

He s1ll be

Eiven & paychological assesment at the

I1rat avallable opportunity.

(6) ANNUGI has not been under control

of CIA or the U.S. Goverment previously.

To date, a cover story has not been required

becauso AMUGal 1a under strict suporvision

of ML/BA/Cl and in not exposed to persona

other than Agency personnel.

(7) AMMUG! 18 AVAILaDLE tO ASSIE

coyer atatus at present.

(8) ANNUG-I in currently in lashington,

D.C., on a TDY stand by banis and 11l use

the

nonorficial cover provided in the United

States and abroad.

(2) Funds are available for this

B. Biographie Informatton

in Havan, No He born on 6 rebruary 1997

He is a shite tale, saried,

(2) ANNUal has no dopendents nio are to

accoRpaDy him on a foreign asalgnsent at this

t130.

(3) ANAUGI has eleven (11)

TOrEAl Echooling, IncludinE tro (ay era o

years toward

---

## Page 3

14-0000

G-GRET

=3

:: * Rachelor Degree, fleld unknows.

(1) AMNUC-1'n tuBineBa experience

le linited to a

short period of time 1.

1946 selling machine tools, alary

unknown.

(5) AMMUG-l's hobbies and or taide

Interests are not known

excapt he enjoys bastell! this zing,

personality.

inancial resources other than 1270 pego.

*et eith he rile in Cube

Canada, and poss bly Honduras.

not been known to reside in any foreig

country other than in transit.

(9) AnUG-1 speaks Spanish only.

He has no otber innguage faculty.

C. Security Considerations

assessrent was subritted on 1 lay 1964. 3o

derogatory information has been devcloped

(2) AHMUG-I 18 aFare O1 U.3.

Govorncent Interest 10 his.

He is not

aarO of CIA Interest at this tire.

AllOGI has not entered any Agency

tostallations.

(4) ANUS-1 18 1a contact with no

one other than CIA staff personnel. His

SECRET 154

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ULCRET

family, relativen, Iriends are not sran

of his Agency connectlon, nor ate they

Dear the Bres Of assigment.

to the

the Bat.

24

(6) ANUGl has Do Ianily probless

or any other problers

naich night bave

• bearing on bis ability to live bla

cover, otber than the fact that he speake

only Spanish which could prestat probie.

(7) ANNUG has not used any

IeferenCe tO ClA fOI ADY pUrpOSE.

(869) Present plans for A'HUG I'S

utilization do not contcaplate uac of

any other nonofficial or official cover.

(10) AMMUG! la under direct supervision

of IH/SA/CI officers and no erergency contact

lan has buen necessary to date.

Herever,

• plan sill be set up at a later date an

appropriate offices notified, an prescribed

by Agency Regulation 20-655.

(11) AUl does not participate in

any Goverment or Agency-affiliated beneficial

(Insuranco) plans.

(12) ANNUG 1s a Cuban refugee and

thus has no U.S. Sulective Service status.

D. Optrational Inforsation

(1) MI/SA/CI has engased AlU to

support developrent of counterintelligence

optrations.

recruitcht targets aru spotted abroad, AlloI

will be sent abroad to support recruitent

JECRET

---

## Page 5

•DETATIONS

It Is not anticipated that

any

indivldunl,

in the U.S. or abroad,

wIll be made are of AMMUG-L's CIA or

D.8. Goverment affiliations until he

In ander or using his nono tacie. cover

other,, than, CIA Staff personnel.

D.C.

(2) NOUG I 19 residing in Tabblagton,

The only alternate location for

1e residence rould be in a nearby cit

• the Washinpton metropolitan area,

(3) ANUCl may be considered for

travel to any country in the free vorld.

This travel w1ll be determined by IH/SA

and not by AkluG le

then he is abroad,

his travel vill be controlled so that no

influence os circumstances will arise

which may cause hin to travel to an unde

sirable country.

(1) At present, there 18 no setd for

Mnuel to contact any social, cultural

or political groupe for cover

or operational

• puI DOseS.

(5) ANNUG l's current Incone

15300.00 pur month plus a furnished

apartsent) Iron CIA la reasonably compatible

..

(7)

No S/" cosmunications channel 1

needed to the handling of AllUG!

(ô) Inssauch #= AMVUG-1 5111 reuide in

tha rashington, D.C., area indefinitely and

Is unable to speak a

24

ScuRET

---

## Page 6

SESSET

24

by the operating divimion

to be most

satisfactory at present.

Bruce B. Chtever

DC/WH/SA

NE/SA/CI/L.Libby:pap (12 May 64)

Distribution:

Or1g. & 1 - Addressee

RII/SA/CI

WH/SA/LSEC

1 = 201 111e

z/MV

---

