# 104-10079-10206

## Page 1

104-10079-10206

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE

TO

FROM:

CONF:

INFO :

TO

Document Number 27. 6→

Do Pistös: jz

5940

29 Homember 63

O INDEX

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

GENO INDEX

2

LE FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-287248

Destroy

AITY: MR. MCGRORCK BUNDY

THR SLITE DEPARIVENT

MR. U. ALEXTS JOHNSON

FEDERAL, BUREAU CE INESTICATICAE

50003 CRYIRAL INILTIGINCE AGANCY MAUD SO??, HAGU 3Ò

C/WH 4

1 07

DC1, D/DCI, DOP, C/C12, VR

Cati

919%

J2+6

ROUTING

5

29 How 63

18

40z

DEFERE CEN

ROUTINE

INFO

SUB ECT:

TRAVEL. OF LER HARVEY OSWALD

CITE DIR

IMMEDIATE

85715

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION HAS BHON GATHERED FROM RELIABLE SOURCES

REGARDING THE TRAYEL OF LEE HARVEY OSWALD AND FIS WIFE:

9 OCTOBER 1959: ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL BRITISH TRAVEL, RECORDS

OSWALD ARRIVED IDI SOUTHAMPION THIS DATE CLAIMING ON HIS LANDING CARD DEÄT HE HAD

HO FINKD AUDRESS BUI PLANNED TO REMAIT IN THE UNITRO KINGDOM ONE WERX FOR VACATION

BEFORE GOING CHT TO "SCHE SCHOOL IN SHISSE," (ERADQUARTERS COMMENT:

FROBABLY

REFERRING TO IHE ALRERT SCHNITZER COLLEGE IN SWITARIa smastiands Is

TO JATE BAKH IN CORRESPONDENCE.)

CONDUCTED ON

2.4. MAY 1976

—_IMPDET CL BY 012.208

B. 10 CCICEER 1959: ACCORDING TO THE SAME OFTICIAI, BOTULISE TRAVER

1976

RECORDS OSWALD LIFT LONDON THIS DATE BI AIR FOR EXISINKI.

APR

Co

OCTOBER 1959: STOCKHOLM INSPAPS? "DAGES INSIER" OF 25 NOTEMER

2963 STATES IS OSHALD PASSED IROUG SHEDEN DURING OCTOBER 1959.

ARTICLE ALSO

W

vie

ADIS THAT OSWALD HAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN OBTAINING VISA TO THE USSR IN HELSINKI WHICH

RESUINED IN HIS RETUNING TO STOCKHOLA. TWO DATS APISE IS ARRIVED IN STOCKHOLM

OSWALD TRAVELED DIRECILY TO MOSCOH. CONCLUDING SEVLENCE OF ARTICLE STATES "JUNIS

SO IVOICATES WAI LIE FUESIAN DIASSY (STOCKILY) CATZ IIN A VISA " ACCORDING

TO A RELIABLE SOURCE IMBRE WAS NO RECORD THAT THERE HAS ANY REQUEST FOR A USSR

VISA PROCRSSED THROUGE NORMAL, CHANNELS FOR OSTALD AI ANY TIME DURING 1959;

AND

D:li0-5-41

1201-289245

COOROINATING OFFICERS

CROUP 1

RELEASING OFFICER

in we'd

Excluded from automatic

downzrading and

SECRET

declassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

# 11054

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DRIF

UNIT

EXT

DATE

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

TO

See

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

sanited

Number

sterile

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

RECLASSFED

2

3

201 - 2824418

ABSTRAST

2

ELiS

BAGE TAC

12-62

ROUTING

5

documenio

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

SCURCS. INDICATED IT HAS DIFFICULT TO EXPLAT HOW OSHALD MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED HIS

VISA IN TWO DAYS WITSCUT GOING TEROUGI NORMAL CHANNELS.

THE ONLY CONCLUSION

THICA CAN B3 DRAMU IS IHAT OSWALD MUST HAVE RICHIVED HIS VISA DIRECTLY FROM THE

SOVIET EMBASSY IN STOCKHOLM WHICH OCCASIONATLI IS DONE IN SPECIAL CASES, BUT THE

SOURCE HAD NO EVIDENCS TO CONFIRM TITS ASSUMPTION.

D. 10 TO 15 OCTOBER 1959:

ACCORDIE TO A VERY RELIABLE BUT EXTREMELY

SENSITIVE SOURCE OSWALD SPATCO AT THE TORNI HOVEL IN HELSINKI FROM IO TO LI

OCIOBER AND THRY MOVED TO TIB KLAUS KURKI HOTEL WEERS BE STAYED UNTIL 15 OCTOBER,

ASPAREILE HATTING FOR A VISA TO BE ISSUED ETM BY THE SOVISY CONSULATE IN HELSINK!.

HE TRAVELED TO THE USER BY TRAIN, CROSSING AT VAINISKALA ON 15 OCTOBER.

E.

13 MAY 1962: ACCORDING TO A DUTCH OFFICIAI, SCURCE, THE DUTCE

CHARCE IN MOSCOW ISSUED A TRANSIT VISA IO OSWALD'S WIFS ON 13 MAY 1962. THESIR

RICADS RETRAL, HIS WINS HAS BORN O 17 JULY 1941 INSTRAD OF 19 JULT 1941 AND IN

SEYERCDVLISK INSIBAD OF MONSI..

THERE IS NO RECORD OF HER HAVING ACIUALLY TRANSITED

LEG SIEN

ERLANDS •

1962: OFFICIAL, BRITISH RECORDS DO HOT REFLECT THAT OSHALD RETURN

TO THE UNITED SIATES FROM THE USSR THROUGH THE UNTUE KLYDOM. HOWEVER, IF HE

WERE MERELI TRANSITING,

II WOULD HOI HAVE BEEN NECESSARY FOR HIM TO FILI CUT A

LANDING CARD, AND IMKREFORE THRE WOULD BE NO RECORD

OF EIS TRAVEL IN IHE

CFFICIAL TRAFFIC INDES®

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BX

COORDINATING OFFICERS

BECRET

THER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS

GROUP 1

Exetuded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

SHISITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ORIG :!

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12-62

ROUTING

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

PACE THRES

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

CITE DIR

1963: ACCORDING TO AN EXTREMELY SENSITIVE AND RELIABLE SOURCE,

O 23 MOVIMBER MARIA SUSTSTACE, ERAD OF THE "HERKEROUP INFORMATIE CUBA," TOLD AN

EMPLOYSS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN THE HAGUE THAT SHX WAS SURE SUE HAD MET "THAT

17. LIES I HAVANA, WHO DID THE LURDER." SHA DESCRIBED HIM AS À MAT OF VIOLENCE

AND TITIALLY FULL OF HATE AND HIDICATSY THAT IT WAS POSSIBLE THAT THIS MAN HAD

EXIA MIJUSED BY A GROUP.... SER SATD SHE HAD IRITIAT DO "GIBSON" ABCUT THE BAD

INPRSSSICH SHE HAD ZAD CE THIS LEX. (HZADQUARTERS COMMENTS: PITASE REFER TO OUR

TELETYPES NOS 85182 AND 85665 FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON GIBSCAT.) "ALMOST

TIRES JOURS LATER, SHETELAGE AGATI CONTACTED INE CUBAN IMBASSY IN THE HAGUE AND

SAID THAP'HE LES OF LIS FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA CCHMMUNER" HAD BEKN STANDERED AND THAT

TE WAS ANOLEYR. FERSON HAMED LEX OSWALD WHO HAD DONE IT.

SNEYLACE, SEEMED TO BE

GLAD TO HAVE HEARD THIS "CORRECT" VERSON. (HRADOTARIERS COMMENT: MR. LIE MAY BE

IDATICAL, MIE VUICENT THRODORE LEE REO REPLACED RICHARD GIBSON AS HEAD CE T9Y

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE.)

E. ACCORDING TO RELIABLE DIFCRMATICN SIST

ELAGE WAS IN CUBA IT JANTARY

1963, AND ACCIDING TO A OPTICIAL DUTCA SOURCE, SES ACALY IRAVELED IO CUBA FOR

THE MAY DAI CELUBRATIONS IN 1963.

281-259245

END

OF MESSAGE

BASED CH ICHD 6097

(т. 69100) (69140

HAGU, 5063,L

143.24 ABED

2299

(69613)

(68739)

_C/S COMMENT:

*DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE: TO RYBAT EPFLOOR CABLES.

PRICHAFO FRIS - DD/P

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

RELEASING OFFICER

Excluded from automatic

doungriding'and

SECRSI

Geclassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS. PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

