# 104-10123-10142

## Page 1

104-10123-10142

21 February 1S7e

¡ENORINDUM FOR THE RECORD

SÜBJECT: Watergate--Frank A. O•Malley

1. At 3 p.m. on the aiternoon of 19 February 1974,

Mr. Frederick N. Evans and Lawrence j. Hove interriered

Mr. Frank A. O'Malley ai his residence, 6419 Lakeview

Drive, Falls Church, Virginia.

NE. O'Mallay retired

from this Agency in June of 1972.

PIlOI tO Tetirement

ME.

O'Malley was an offices in the External Expioynent

Assistance Branch, Retirement Activities Division of

the Office of Personnel.

It was Mr. C'ailey's function

to assist personnel retiring fron this Agency in finding

post-retirement employmeni. In this capacity ix. O'Malley

had been instrumental in the placement of Mt. i. Howard

Kunt in the Robert R. Mullen public relations fira.

purpose of this interview was to attempi to determine it

zaditional

information could be developed fyon is. O'Malley.

with regard to the placement of do. Funt with the Mullen

Company.

2. Vir. O'Nalley began the intervier by recalling

the nature of his past Agency associations both with MI.

Hunt and the Mullen Company.

Pr. O'Malley stated that

prior to assuning his responsibilities in the Office of-

Personnel he had

served with Central Cover Staff in the

area dealing with the funding of covert action projects-

In this capacity he had becone faniliar with the acti-

vities of Mt. Hunt while Mr. Hunt functioned on the. Covert

Activities Staff primarily in the propaganda field.

NIr.

O'Malley stated that he first came in contact with the

Mullen

• Conpany when he was attempting to tind an organi-

ZatiOn

¿o handle the public relations effori of a covert

Agency activity known as the Free Cuba Conmittea.

nue the the cho

MI-

O'Malley related that he had arranged this cover thrcugh

the Christianform Organization and that his duties

ir.-

tved all aspaces of the

funding on this achirity. Mi-

O'Malley doscribed the nature of his working relationship

---

## Page 2

14-00000

with Nir. Robart R. Mullen as being close and cordaii.

Mi. O'Malley stated that Mr.

Mullen Bas

in the habit

of confiding

to hin information concerning other iallen

business contacis and projects.

In response to a

specific question, Mr. O'Malley stated thai during the

period of his contaci with the Mullen Company dealing

with the Frea Cuba Committee, Mr. Mullen told him the

Howard Hughes Organization vas a client of the concein-

3. Mr. O'Malley reiterated his previous siatemenis

that Mr. Hunt was referred to his office for placement

assistance through the Office of the Executive Director,

then Colonel L. K. White.

Mr. O'Malley stated that in

view of Mr.. Hunt's interests

in the public relations

field, it was thought advisable to put Mr. Hunt in touch

with MI. RobeIt Mullen tox

the purpose of gaining the

benefit of Mi.. Mullen's guidance.

Mr. O'Malley recalled,

after the initial neeting, Mr. Mullen mentioned having

met Mr. Hunt

some years previously in Paris, France.

Mr. O'Malley's office arranced interviews with various

oxganizations including Readei's Digest and the Kennacoit

Copper Company. Through the offices of the Muilen Company

an interview was arranged with the General Foods Corpora-

tion, a Mullen client.

Mr. O'lialley stated there was

disappointment that ir. Hunt had been unsuccessful in

"selling hinself" during any of these interviews and that

no job offers had resulted.

In response to a question

as to whether or not executive level interest was still

being

shown in Mi. Hunt's posi-enployment placement,

Mr. O'Palley recalled that ir. Richard Heins, then

Director of Central Intelligence, was listed as a charac-

ter reference on Mr. Hunt's resume and that Mr. Helms

signed a letter of recommendation to the Kennecott Copper

Conpany on Mr. Hunt's behalf.

Mr. O'Malley recalled being

contacted in the last month of Mr. Hunt's Agency seifice by

Mr. Mullen,. who stated that a decision haa

been made to

expand their operations.

In view of this expansion, Mr.

Mullen had decided he would himself offer dir. Hunt a joi

Nix. Mullen

had stated that he was interested in having i-

Ilunt begin work inmediately.

However, Mi. O'Malley te-

called that Mr. Hunt completed retiremeni formalities and

actually staried work for the Mullen Company approxinataly

a week to 10 days later.

---

## Page 3

Nr. O'ralley stated that contaci was maintained

with Me. Hunt male at the Mullen Company on a continuing

basis, becaus ir. O'Malley was interesis in dit. Hurt

for possible referral of other agency rctirees.

O'Nalley also understood that there was Cover and Con-

nercial Staff interest in the Muilen Company, and trat

Mir. Huni became instrumental in discussing several aspecis

of ine cover operations in his capacity as

an officer of

the company. Mr. O'Malley recalled referring various

Agency officers to Mr. Hunt for guidance when these indi-

viduals expressed an interest in entering the public.

relations field. Mr. O'Malley did recall disappoininent

in feeling Mr. Hunt had generally been less helpful on

these occasions.

5.

Mr. Hunt contacted Mr. O!Malley on several occasions.

requesting referral of retiring Agency employees with

specific qualifications. These instances occurred apparent-

ly after Mr. Hunt had assuned his responsibilities tith

the White House.

In one

instance MI. Hunt requested re-

: fertal of a recently retired Agency secretary.. As in

previous memoranda and discussions, Mix. O'Malley was unabic

¿o recall the name of this

individual. He did, horever,

state thai he is quite certain Mi. Hunt turned down the

individual won he referred.

As a poini ci clarification,

DiT. O'Malley said that this indivicual had not previcusly

been known to Mr. Hunt, nor had she previously worked

for hin in any capacity. Mi. C'"alley also recalled a

request fIon No. Hunt for an individual having skills in

the area of locks and surreptitious entry.

A resume of

Mr.

was provided to dir. Huni at that tine.

It is Mir. O'Malley's recollection that Mr. Hunt specifically

stated that a person with hir.l

quelifications was

needed in connection with a requirement of the howard

Hughes Organization in Las Vegas, Nevada. MI. O'Mallay

stated the opinion that lt was nis inpression that the

duties involved would include the monitoring of & listenirg

device in an undisclosed location.

Pix. O'Mallcy reiterated

his understanding that Mr.

did not accept lit. Hunt's

offer of employment.

----

fi.

Me. O'Malley thon recalled request fron MI. Hunt

C0e & coconnendacion of & sucurity sortice Cognisdrion

to carry out an eicctronic countermeasures

"swcop."

HII-

O'Malley reconnended the lackenhui Corporation.

TiT-

---

## Page 4

O'Malley occalied that Mr. Hunt expressed dissatisfaction

with that suggestion in part boccuse of wai Mr.

Fune

fieved as that firm's political

oriontation.

sir. O'Dalley

did not elaborate further on that renars.

Ax. O'Malley

then suggested the use of Anderson Sacuri

LIF CONSULEBRES,

incorporated,

the Offico oi

Security.

Mr. O'Malley stated thai insofax as this

organization was advertised in the yellow pages und that

Mr. Hunt could be assured of the reliability of the sei-

vices, he feli this to be a reasonable suggestion.

kir.

O'Nalley staied that during a subsequent phone call when

tir. O'Malley asked how his suggestion had worked out,

Mr. Hunt responded,

"Yes, they had done a fine job."

At this point Mr. O'Malley was asked whether or not exon

his associations

with ix. Hunt he felt fix. Hunt was in

the habit of making glib connents which were not neces-

sarily accurate in order to pass over a subject-

Mr.

O'Malley stated that this was categorically so. lesard

he was sure that Mr. Hunt had lied to hin on a number oi

occasions and that, therefore, he was in no positión to

be sure thai fir. Runt had actually, in faci, used the

services of Anderson Security Consultants.

Mr. O'Nalley

volunteared the opinion that he suspected

the electronic

counterneasures "sweep" was to be carried out in the effices

of the Committee to Re-elect the President-

7.

In response to a question as to wether he had

ever referred anyone to McCord

Associates, Mr. O'valley

replied that he rememoered having referred Nalter Brayden.

DiT.

Brayden for a tine acied as bodyguard to Mrs. Martha

Mitchell.

As an aside Mir.. O'Malley mentioned that Mr

Brayden had refused to carry a firearm in spite of the

fact that Mr. McCord told him he could do so on the author-

ity of the Attorney General, Asked specifically to ir had

ever referred

either Willian Shea or Teresa Shea

McCord, MT. O'Malley stated that he did not recall specie-

ically referting Teresa Shea and that he was sure that he

had not referred William Shea to hin.. So, contrary io

previous statements, it is now tir. O'Malley's belief that

in all probability Mrs. Shea was not referred by this

Agency to Mr. McCord.

---

## Page 5

S.

Returning to di. O'Malley's picrious ecsponsibilities

ii? coordinaiing funding for tno covert action activities

oE Mit. E. Howard Hunt, the issue was

ut noi the funding of Mir. Hurt's projects continuad baireen

July 1965 and Septenber 1906 while Mi. Hunt vas

employee statroned at acria,

Spain. Mr. O'Malley recalled

that at the

tine of Ma. Hunt's assignment to Madrid tha

statement disseminated for consunption within the Agency

was that Mr. Huni was retiring. Mr. O'Malley stated that •

this vas not generaliy believed.

No. O'Malley was quite

certain that during this pariod his office handleà no

project funding for Mr. Hunt.

In response to specific

question dr. O'Malley stated that on Mir. Hunt's return to

staff employment the projecis and funding which stopped in

July 1965 were again resumed.

Mr. O'Malley was not aware

of any project nanes or funding nechanisms or post-assignmeni

accountings in connection with Mr. Hunt's activities in

Madrid.

Hitch of Eross

Frederick N. Evans

Listen LI

Lawrence J. Hove.

---

