# 104-10181-10183

## Page 1

104-10181-10183]

- *

SI: & KIT

21 JAN 1977

1.1/1:06/021-77-

MENORINDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

FROM

SUBJECTS

:

Raymond A. Harren

Chief, -Latin America Division

: A.

Jack Anderson 20 January 1977 Column

Titled "CIA Tied to False Oswald Story"

B. Identification of the Mr. X in the

Anderson Column

P.IM

I. The attached column, citing the testimony of a Mr. Y

alleges that a ClA agent tried to link Oswald to Cuban inteli-

gence officers in Mexico.

There is, of course, no substance to

the column's allegations.

The column identifies the source as

Mr. X because of attempts on his life,

but subsequently gives

cnough information on Mr. X to establish his identity.

According to the Anderson column, Mr. l was first met

by his ClA contact in Havana before

relations with U.S./Cuha sere

Mr. X had helped to organize bank accountants to em-

bezzle Cuban government funds to finance anti-Castro causes.

Mr. X was reportedly recruited by a Morris Bishop (CIA contact),

to plan an

attempt on Castro's life. The plan was to fire a

bazooka from

nearby apartment building while Castro was deliver-

marathon specches.

According to the Anderson

the plot was discovered by Castro's police and Nr. X

Mr. X also reportedly tried

Castro in Chile in 1971 in league with the l'enezuelan Luis Posada

who is now being detained in Caracas

for the 6 October

Cuhana airline bombing:

The Anderson column chus with

that drY worked for in until too for copenhes, but was peror

$253,000 in cash by Morris Bishop when he was terminated.

WARNING NOTICE

ENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

E2 INPDET

CL BY 025251

27-4229

2'70017.

241-312946

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SACRIT

3.

¡rom the abore deserippion of dr. d, it is reasonably

that Mr.

les Antonio Carlos MICHANd Blanch 1201-312906).

assistant bank manager and past president of a public

accountants association in larana,

in Decenber 1000 nhen ho asded the cos, at that timol

for visas for con rolativos of the four men assigned to kill lastro,

and also requested four MI rifles with adapters

for grenades plus

cight

grenades.

The cos did not encourage VECl.fl and subscquently

checked with in Embassy officer who reported that VECIANA had made

similar "wild-cycd" proposals to him.

On 23 Norember 1961 the

Miami News published a report of an unsuccessful attempt by Antonio

VECTANA to kill Castro.

VECIANA reportedly had arranged to

assassinate Castro and

Cuban President Osvaldo Dorticos on 5 October

in lavana, but the bazooka he was using failed to fire.

There has been no Agency relationship with VECIANA. A

POA, which

was granted for his use in para-military affairs in

January 1962, expired in November 1962.

VECIANA was born on

4 October 1955 in Havana.

Ile was a member of the People's Revo-

lutionary Movement,

an anti-Castro group in Cuba during 1960-61, and

founders of Alpha-66.

A certified public accountant

hy trade, VECIANA was with d.I.D. in la Pas in 1908-72.

VECIANA

was registered in ISR to the U.S. Army in November 1962 and he

was terminated without prejudice in July 1966.

On 23 July 1962

VECIANA was intervieved, at. his request, by Mr. Harry Real from

the DCD New York office.

VECIANA asked

Real to arrange a mecting

with a senior CIA officer to discuss. Alpha-do's plans to assassinate

Castro and to request ClA's assistance (U.S.$100,000; 10,000 Cuban

pesos: 48 hand grenades).

There is no indication that this request

was ever acted upon by ciA.

93

"5: 071n April 1900 a LA Division officer,

the alias

John Livingston) met VECIANA in New fork City.

neeting wis arranged by tretired naval officer, James Cogswell,

who ern in ormed chieft

#lL Division that he had information of valuc

concerning Cuba.

Arrived in New York City

for, the meeting,

he was introduced by Constell to ViCIANA.

Ile immediately launched

a discussion of the Cuhan political situation and noted his strong

feeling

that the only solution was the assassination of Castro.

03

As Radis of co she was in sa positien to emprde him withy

interested in gathering information which he thought was the purpose

VECIANA was attempting to use

ZABALA poten-

SEC

RET

2

---

## Page 3

SI6.K11

•ntivities off the ground.

nould look aylo the

SIBILA to be

contacted in Puerto Rico.

in contact with VI.ClAVA ever used in

There is no indicarion in the file that any beenes hefices

alias Morris Bishop.

10 Morris Rishon listed in true name in the DDO rolls

There was

never any contractual relationship with VECIANA and he was not

paid CIA funds.

7. On 11 January 1977 a sanitized copy of VECIANA's 201 file .

was made available to staffers from the Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence.

signed

Rayroad A. Marren

Raymond A. Marren

Attachment

DDO/C/LA/COG/OPS:NJDevine:js (9229) (21 January 1977)

Distribution:

Orig &

1

• Addressee

1

- ADDO

1 - LA/COG/Chrono

- C/LAD

0: 201-312966

1 - hold

+ 17709

1- ASST. TO DCI

SEGRET

• ..

---

## Page 4

14-00000

13hl.

THE CASH ACTIN COST

Jack Anderson and Les Whitten

CIA Tied to False Oswald Story

The Central Intelligence Agency

transcripts thr sh. CIA would sant to

said. Morris Buship pald him a lump

asked one of its Cuban operatries to

fabnicate thes erience. Perhaps ihe

8253.000 un cash 11% par services

help fabricate a story. about

Lee

CLA could base sushe lo lie Ken.

Callgirl

Trade Women who lake

Hane

Oswald durine the intestya-

nedy's killer to lse eatro porernment.

up the morld's oldes protestico, like

on of the John F. Kennedy assasana

In any erent, ise elA agent called

help

tion. the Cuban has told congressional

off the scheme. and Sr. X "neser did

most other career seekers a ho sant lo

get

ahead in

investigators.

life.

«are lanking lor

talk to his cousin" atording to a sum.

"higher income and an indepradent.

licn

In an cartier echna. we reported

mary of the interre. It should ke

exciting lfesete."

front.

intes

that the same anness claimed be had

stressed that the satertiew in no way

met the accused assassip in Dallas in

Implicates the CLA re the Kennedy kill-

These are the "majer motitaling fac-

tors" that lead women into proctitu-

In

the company of a ClA agent three

shat

months before Kennedy was killed

the mistery miness first met his

sion So concludes a scholarly study of

met

We

Idenufled the witness only as

CLA coulac!

in Herand before the

calipirts and streakers, a hich -bas

the & Mir. X because of artempts on his life.

United States broke of! relations with

Just been complated at the laspajers

mont But we have studied his detailed. coaf-

Cuba Mr. I had brigru lo organize a

expense

We

Idential statements to congressional in

kroup of bank sententants, who emi-

Two distinguished researchers from

restigators.

They

intervieued him

berzled funds from tse Castro regune

the Universits of Washinsion. Dr. Jen-

three

times.

crossesamnining

iden*

him

to finance anti-Castro causes.

nifer James and Jane Meyerdung. were

test

closely. He gave them such specific in-

The agent, who card the name Mor-

assigned 1o find out ahs women be

formation that they concluded he was

ris Bishop, recrused Mr. & to plan an

come prostitutes

Their Findires will

thre

close

a "credible" withers.

attempt on Castro's lie. The plotters

be published shorty in a I-page docu.

He told of meeting his CiA contact

planned lo fire & bLooks from

a

ment. which has been boodlessed to us

fOrT

In the lobby o! a Dallas office hutding

nearby apartment a tse Castro was de-

before i goes to press

a"CE In August 1953 Thes time he brougar

liveriag one of his Israchon spiraches.

in th

another guy." retouated Mr. V. The

Not onto do weren beroine prosta.

The plot was distiered by Castro's

guy neser talked

police, and Mr. Jessied to Miami. He

tutes for the sume undertving motis es

in'A

Mr. X explained that he had trane

continued for a dors more fears lo

tbat "some people berurce laugers,

anot

himself. as an underground leader. to

work with

Bishop is the anti-Castro

according to the turned ladies from

memortze the characteristics of people

underground.

Seattle, but the professico requires lit.

Sit he

anel.

He immediately recogcized

During Castro's lal risit to Chile.

tle schooling.

hims the

CLA arent's coronamon

after

Mr. X uned again la trock bim off.

For the pas, tbere are surtually no

mers seeing Orwald on television following

The plotters included a Venezuelan se

other occupatioas aratable" 8o women

he & the Kennedy assessication.

curity agent, named Luis Posada Car-

of modest stills, the researcher role.

the

Not long afterward. the Cl.A contact

riles.

sa ho

was suggesed lo provide

They conclude that pakurutien sul

seeir made

strange

request of Mr.

forged documents last the blame on

flourish as long as there is ** fin.

the! There had been a report that Asuald

the Sosiers This plus Lu. fell through.

sumer demand.

As thes rut in "Eno

Nc bad met a rubaa couple in Merco.

Oniy a lew weeks egu. the same Po

nomics is the persiste theme f prus

made "You have a cousin working for l'uhan

rada vas indicted ia l'enezuela

on

titution."

Ther latelligence in Merico.

" the C'Ll azent

murder barges in racection with

haol

The study also dispels old mises tale

said.

"Who don't you just ask him, say.

the crash of a Cuban Miner.

about "fallen somen.

Towing we'll bribe hurt if he said li was

Mr. X sand he norind for the (I. un

cause ther hate men or have abrormal

intel really bim that Ossaid met.

It isn't clear from the confidential

til 1973 for expenses

Wben the rela-

ser drives or are fated inio the buil

tronsbip was termicaind un l97J. he

ness by "the ¿verdue of brutal pumps."

reallo mim inal insaid nice

11l 191A 101

• I isnt eisur from the confidental bunship was termanated in lots he • arosh

F27

• .

+1+1701-71-057-1

5783

---

