# 104-10182-10000

## Page 1

104-10182-10000

NOUSF3

ШЕД СОНО АТ Сі АДОНАИНИ ЕУ

HEGS СО THILTEN

SECURURELOVAS ASBOLIVH NSSVSSVARO

ILUBSTIT LIBANUSSIBEP/VOLRHD:

WINsTON HENey

20/168875

10l52 /0ne

196l

INCLUSIVE DATES:

GUSTODIAE UNITAFOCNTTON:

DELITIONS, IP

AVY:

Thad Дрек

DATE

DND3E

PEGEIVED

RET URVEND

311515.

3 n4/

23 MA4

2 N0r.28

REVONSED ISY

(PPLE NNIE)

Beler helf

B0 110L

JENAUNA SATH

BEZSY WOLF

SIHUNTURE OF

REVIENING OFFICIAI

Bali holf

sdau KA

Bitey hilf.

Anif

mte sind tond moond do unrioone soe stensnoor ON

---

## Page 2

Maid Agency Docs Keiny Wirsion

201-6887

---

## Page 3

Third Ayery Does Hany Wister

Vol II:

201-6887

---

## Page 4

220:19

nott

shouldabe

wtering collaborator

"ol: code

potential witting collaborator: date opened

OI Code 'A2

horrcode

forest vicrtes collaborator (relatfonship terginated):

A potentral viccins collaborator

rcasons;

deragatory loformationtever contacted (secursty

OI Code Al

O countertotel ligence

cose Moe, Involving a

Incelligence

or securtty service).

foreign

Code

A5.

all others. Of Code Ab.

Signe.

750100

component)

This seatsoment of casesery has boon

entired

ghou

(((C(016)

Routee

197

Thra document

pereasant:

port

Silie in

C-050-7-1-0-12

Son CAL 9/2

-0S309

---

## Page 5

There is information on an Individual

Who may be identical with the subject

of this 201 th OPS/ITC. For details

call extension 5020:

KEEP THIS NOTICE FILED ON TOP

0F 201- 006887

---

## Page 6

VEEXFOULONINS

DE

FGR

ISUBU

ECT.

FaSRIGLAL

ED

ED

IND

SHOU

LD

:OF

00

HI S• 201

CUR

DOIT

IONAL

REQUESTEO

006

7337.05*

01

CATE 04 9EC 75

09356242

201-00063873

S E G B,ET

E2 IMPDET CL

eY 054979

---

## Page 7

STENCERTE

THE

DUS

DO POCUMENT TRACT

TION CONGERNING THE

CHED FROM ANOTH

VECT

OF

CHIA L

DO:

THIS: 201

ACESAR EL

T,M

DOCU-

CTEWAS

PREPA

REDECONTAINS

ADOT T TONAL

OSTHEESUBJEGT

ANDESHOULDABER REQUESTED

F.R0

STON

201-0006887

SEX

MK

CIT

TUSA

4100-006; 139/04

CD-02099

0B

MAR

P2

RES USA.

MENTTONED

IN

ANALYSIS OF STORY OF

AN

AMERICAN COMMUNIST. BY JOHN GATES.

DATE 22 MAR: 74

08083288

201-006.887

DE2 KMPDET CL BY 054972:

---

## Page 8

2K L

F5+6-10151

AN60411, 30A2 3002062 67401C

SX PRSCOEUCTA

2ASHS.

ROA9He 29%5S

congalle

"el:

72

Bi

4F.

MUNa De 108 46214:

raroufaCohas0.13

SOLISA MITO

Pastarich, sunga

P394

---

## Page 9

SEVERTYSIX DE DEROROOOF ALL TOE PEUGLE DU THE DATTEE STATES,

THEO TO UNITY GROUNE THE PRUCHAR FOG ENGINE THEMAS NEW TA

---

## Page 10

TG 4208-00 400600008 005199233

due sei

SESCONSE TU TRE SOCIEN

THO UNITEO STATES DUPLEOTE iPSELE DU UPERTING PrE FUSIOLOS

COVIAT ISTIATIVE INO IT 15 ROFING DO CHOATE A ZONE SPENG

---

## Page 11

dongrise?

24E19::

COURSE OF THE THIAL?

CAROLEADS FiRST DEGLE TOTING

COMMUNIST PAOTT, FROM INE COUMITTEE FUR:

RAVIS ANO FOOM LOGELA GAVE PERONNALLY.

MS? CORDIAL GESTINGS

AND TRANGS TO THE COLCHOSLOLAS ENDOLE MADISE GOUPAGEOUSLE AND

SELFLESSEY SPRUGGLE FUE DUE FULL PERSODA dE REE MULATOCRE BADORNESS,

PERSECUIED OY DIE DONOFOLIOPE AND MAGISTS IN TIG-USTiCE STATES.

AGAINST THE ESCALE GE METER, AGAT dO GENE ANd SURgeliE

FLAUFLE DO THE POLICE CHOGLON AMIGO TO PERCO GRAINE SUBARATS

ALL PUSSIOLE SORRA GO GIANTARIOTE AND REMATCHESTE DAREST

¡PenaLis noco code support dor Proundesire dead"s arrateg

---

## Page 12

STATES

THAT IS

THE POOR GOMINISTAOTIOR TO NOR TARIKE

FEESE DO PACH THE CURRERO COUGT DO SUCHE MAN RUND dS SECONES

PEACENDE LEGISCATION DE THE CONGRESS AND EVODY POOCRESSIVA ERCISTOLE

ÓF THAT COUNTO ANO THAT IS DAN FORGOTS IRE PELNO MARY TO PREPARE:

THE AHPHONE OF HER GO 14O GIGATI

QUAGING DEALERICH MADE MANHO DO GOSSIELE DOTE DULY TO SIDE

THE NAS DEYONE TEE SEA OUT ALSO TO SUNSORE SOURES INSIOC THE

UNTIEU STATES MICH MOULE CRUEL PEE CLACE GIZENTION DUVRELAT

GO CHALE THE UNITY O6 PAG COAANNO COPLE: 19036: 00069069614

111199 A%

---

## Page 13

OTTON!

295 GUULI27

200610157

TO CHIS WASHOC

F2LD

2.94

Checked me nurt

"cops in 1d:130n

M653t

4: 1

lord can Her flour draineroey

A po courtst dared or Partitio

15S A S

equall of the eydi.118

Ware peeleded dead end dude meddlie rolen.

testan,

---

## Page 14

- ThAr

CHICOS TO SINSONELO NOI

793-500144456C43 165017-31

MELODRA COORDEN TALE

НОРОСЬ

CONCE

1771- 9157459599977

Mas sabasadedal sto demoros car datado rinor do tredona

---

## Page 15

11. 10 May 72

The

Crectantos

porterby

Verber onta

herek.

tors of the Sep central Cal

the GOR:

POLSEURO MERER NOT NECESS CUST

Cast 301th sues reus

PLINTID

EAST DERANT

so ocher collabora

NCSSR Fabasay

D Centraco

Durin

and cans eat.

Hermira teh com

Ceritral Committes,

munists, reassurine thee paire

cont in

GDR working poopto in there

SED and the

and 5 c

otaly progrosa, for

the defense of Give

hermann Axer extensively Infood the U.S. workers leader about the irplementation of

the decisions of the Elghth Sa Congreas and the abate struggle for peace

and security

In Europe.

The talk once again confirmed she fill agreément of the SED and the CÜSA on all basie

questions of the struggle of the world communist movesent and served the further

deepening of the fraternal relassies. botueen the tuo parties.

At a very cordial meeting uit reposentatives of the GDR Comnittee for Human Migues.

Henry Winston, Chairman of the catsa, novingly outlird the efforts of thousands of

U.s. citizers

In defense of Ange: a Davia.

BRIEFS

HONECKER VIEWS SOVIET WILM--The "NO final parts of the Soriet fllo epie "Ilberation"

are having their solem firat nacht in the GDR at the fosnos Carena In Berlin.

Quests

of honor at this event are Firs: secrotary of the shi Central Coumittee Erich Honecker

and USA Abasador Mikhali Vermo, (Text) lEas: Berlin Voice of she oDA Domestse

Service In German 1700 GPT 8 Mar * Lin

•Peoples" la the motto of the end::: 10n which ojind 1n boriln on 8 May on lle. 2531

anniversary of le Gerrar-Sorel: Friendario Sceler:

crests at the perine ceremory

were Maus jys!, GDR minister no initire.

sid a delegating of the sorlet salaty for friensula mith the dcs.

East Be-ilr

AD! Internaluna: Serulce 19 Gerar 2021 00 8 May ti1.!

Wit

---

## Page 16

VENTO NASTON

Bathtanu

Manet

hitners round:

001062027 23, 1912.

AH T

moy qu

To!

Masours; atout 1927.

Joseph winston

died there on detober 26, 1958. Me and his bite had been-

separated for many year.

winston had several sinters and a brother, nancis.

Dors Munphrey, Lite Berte Black, novents Snuth, and Otis D.

ransion. inother sister, anna Lee loconico, do seid.

apparently none of kinson's tunily ever bicone altiliated

with the CPUSA.

On Say 2. 19A1, Henry Handon and Adi bedder. a

white mitive-born den forker, here marred in crookign, to lork.

tuna wa: born April 23, 1918. Her later No Loan du lushi.

and hes mother in Austria. Henry and lion hare io children,

Larry Douglas, born February la, 1916, and Judart

Anne, burn

coptonber 25,

1950, both in dew surk lies.

like s

S42 57696 189-4-134

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

Guy duens, a segro:

as born taraba catan

ork Cies the rises timate sou outed one

Hens einston as otto reterred to as bes tather

He has

Duct actate cru, connuat?

Satraires

no he 216 10905-28

one Clan,

steal tered enter breakdo nd renes

chas

At thron,

eh-c

evittended

And All tong

1150 us

2 Slouch be is current

and 19

103105: 202 DAN

imployede

Fluca Man:

tron loas to about 1930,12

Whate in seasons de vorked or Were encous

*dubs tron 1930 to 1982 birore pound to e dunt Cars sanc

tri, be has gaven her full line do crise cotivities:

22002034

Anen door on ocerter tell 19

midthunion:

---

## Page 19

Wins tons as compant adapy hus cafe chal

and their

So sharea sent to the sovici baron do toe all or 1901.

mistake and chelorea resure dare the United states au november

1961,, but inston nezanned abroad for too and a fair carsaluriog

35as portoda

the

Babeen to Fast GeneaRya

maice and bad as tended cong-esses of the

Comments Parties an Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and But saria,

addition to heving traveled extensively in tae soviet Chios.

Winstoo has andicated that ne has traveled to many

socialist countries throughout the worlo, Including Red China

as well as Korea, Indonesia, and other places, where he had

discussed the international communist movement and ine problers

cornectod therewith,

winston with his wife, Feru, went to Santiago, Chile,

in October, 1965, to attend the 13th Congress of the Chilean

Communist Party as a delegate-observes.

In March, 1960, they traveled to lie sovie: Union tu

aliend she. 235d Congress of tre Connunint Pari: u: tr: Soviet

Union. Trey revisited rat country in the fat oi abor, as part

of the official delegatson of the CPUSA, to attend the soin

in 57.

---

## Page 20

2/2005

Seston te le tony ne grence or contente cena touvers

oh dessentire

un mito tire

February 420. 29120

and honorabile ge cone scred

0032335

nath the racheet Docutoian neusciass

dale wich orette

scalce no acted as a pobile delociois deoried

and was

attached tu the London Public kolutions Orisce ct te resso

Interest soction.

ü: Health

On January 12. 1960 authorities ci tu tito oler:

Penitentury at Terre Mance, partond, Quare distie Was

':"'

Incarcerated, stated due le das bufaud coptreed do berosn

a culisiuence,

Minata bas operated do retratter ile.

total hy

blind.: Un June 30, Mul, le hai deiessed doun teleon dellortr

comutatson of his sintonce ly Prestone disdet

---

## Page 21

Sappar

ory 1958, Forn minston adrases trot coctors

in The Soviet turon tole Nonston

that he bust reture to chat

country for ho paralizarior ind treatsent. rufce a year for

periods of four to sis seeks.

Dais treatment, consisting use

injections,

re sens endicine, and darte to supposee to reduce.

the prood pressure ano enable naton to sue, at leustrsone

Contrast between dark and light:

Winston has claired or auberous occasions that, chile

i tao idlaint and, as a recall, de ds son bline. di covember i.

gris, child to prisor.

rement for eng fiven collers under rae roceral torts erams

sost the debtung of prison suthor tées to properls

does colution and ro free hit for ti

a freen is becomes Potato linds On Januars 218

01965t

49

337279

---

## Page 22

however.

Lucasse ca

D of erscheine the n

tros rauson seshors ties

and decause the case

-065024

anzosen 220!

Mans ton raconde du

mas getape le als

31053624

The artest

752

10c355

wirts tourtre

YOr:

Ne w

York.

11. CorEuRiSt ParTY ASCULEatIONS

Hastory

Winston joined the sel au Januars, 1051, and became

sonnes of the CHUse in the Sauner uf 1931.

lu beredes, 1932,

he Jeff Frosas City, Sassoudi, ded ICh delipale To Doe National

Huuger Horch in weshinpio D. co, and ihen piotreded de lil fors

City, marie no porkos for ihr gound lender," otteriai

OIta1

In 1930, ne s: Chaire et the Marion Bonh Boer lon

on au Uneaployd counils und was inter annod Chairan of the

Yout section of the Chenploree Council tot une Ne York City

meiropolitan area. from dural throush dovember, lo3i6, de vis

Section Onarizorod th VOl. du Brooklyn.

---

## Page 23

pron November, 1933, du May, nous, he wus tiny covtet

union, phere he detended the Legto Sehool. upon is returo lo

the Unsted States, he becade Orsanizationel sucrorany of ne

you in Cleveland and vas namoa to ung onio Distrlet Comrittee of

the YeL. in March, 1936, winston us paned yor, Not loosi

Organizat 10a1 Secretary, and do Way, 1937% was Glected YCL

Sat tonal Ada mnstrative Secretaryo

winston was activen the Yelas editor of the eugs

Communist hester, official anyarame of the you, and as

Director or tin YCL Training School Held at Camp oucon,

New York, dortag 1937 and 1938. He was reelected tOL National

Administrative Secretary In May, 1939, and held this office

until his induction into the friy tu february, 1912.

winston became a mouber of the CPUSA Mntlunal Conmittee

in June, 1940; was elegted a nonber of the Coumunist Political

Association National Conmittee while serving. in the Armed Forces

in 1944; andiwas renamed to the CPUSA National Cormittee in July,

1945.

From October, 1915, to July, 1946, he surved as Sucretary

of the Party's Sational Necro Commission. He was named a member of

the editorial daff of "rollical Affairs" in 19j0, lo Julj, 1946,

re vas electea a membor of the Party's Nacional Board and appointed

CPus, National Urganizational socrotary. He held the latter position

nil his disappearance into the Party's underground apparatus ir July,

19s1.

- 91

---

## Page 24

ider

CPU

Closeman

Execut

B0.1

F18th

Satomit Convention of the Cruss in Junc, 1906, le was elected

crust Mart one Chaerman.

y. currant activity

Mriston as currents CPUSA Notaonal Cheermon and a

menber of the Sccretarint.

the Nitional Frecutive Boord, and the

Na Trong Conmittce..

couross owed testimony

Winston restitico before the Senate Arned Services

Conmittee on spril 2, 19lá, on beholl of the CRUSA in opposition

lo unival miltury traming and the draft.

1. Indictments id Arrests

sunston was Adacted on July 20, 1916, under consptracy

provisions of the Say Act of 1910. Me was tried, convictou,

esculenceo to Tive

prisonment, and lineu Stopooo but

---

## Page 25

files to dopese to sederas Court due committe to picon

ua farch a, res6, as a recutt of endon de recerved da scaredori

lares -year sertence 10F

coatcaptuf court. Wiston senatred, fn

ordson unter tes serene ros conned be erusadent dengeare

Just 30, 1050,

Mos reason ot testts

038 9450 210

arethe Desertentsoe

Justies aster

wittoo chion bue, suen asaced ecaost of ties onese trent under

sic Smitheret banSton's indictect under tee

smith Act wis

Asilissea. on raj, 29, 1963

In charterizution

Paysient appentence

winsion is six feet tall. He is stockily built.

weighing around 200 pounds. He has black hair, brown eyes, ad

" pockmarked. face.

He dresses neatly, ours a suit and tie, und

-Openis sube malgrooned di ali times.

B. 110:15 1d 11:05j20F2S16S

because of his seat-coral olinaress, rinsior has le

iPiso mauguriorse ins associates read in alia and in this

äng at 15 abit to seep incorned about mildin mt corld crents

93

D

Pasture Jona

---

## Page 26

and facetoluments

SS-002ct:

or seria contorts

rie.

can spared arrere

her debitos:

na be gues to

The Sorter

houses

and astordud str

She neute

wishes:

Cornere hs

3919 pos

Masten"

vishern

is

107

1h8541

she hero cuss i

2T269903 238-4692025

det

nurse

Sureturne

Bets no dead on speech troo

Me encept mouse Ges nose te recorde to nave mode saus

up their marital dialeuties nd persuaded then to diag obether

Winston epeupies is top post in the cpusa by cries

of the fact that Hold, wen to became Ghere Scorcidy, needed

aProndunt Negro Furts inder to bire man support because vi

his osa lock of soilind anong Parts degroes.

Since binsior

is doo da arportunt sigure in the national lordership, Ball ed

ottis segro sunctionates die obliged do de attentive to and

mercellul of kin.

to his

continuino duio support. in tie paris md thr de sus:

noess. ily trout miusion with deference. hall abortedly wale

lile cothing dotter coun

tu have soviet doctors keep minston is

tic ISSR iug an indice period of line when te visits

Lil Counry luFF dad chsi-up, therby preventing Rinston

---

## Page 27

en paracHeesens de catsa

2.1928

AS 15054250:

Fad- rinstor's curlaes?

ske

asi

Weren

92:

Ma secost

donor 49:

8: 9932

inge

0:25

maca

Part

12 1

FAS

Associates ar

sadi caes

sure!!

He mude at dorous tant bobas to be consulied rich his ipanis.

workers in the nationil neadquurters,

winston is terror; to

associates and comorkers, he is rogunt und donincering.

•evertheless, minston is considered io be caesauctive:

and popular Party leodor mong tai derbership, ratic s tell as

Cluck. he was in enguging person lity and 13 dims smiling or

isighiag. because o: his pleisani, cooperative dencinor: his

•is: relaionship tit: coopit. li sains 10 like everjone, und

In mis rise to tie top lendership, vanston vis extronei!

arill to faithfully foilon tae soviet und tid archling ClS.

Ins di ill tires and to be in tust with the thanking on his

45

---

## Page 28

superiors, Witte sorterun and decisive in deunte, neares)

displayed any: independence or Tuptiatave, but konid is tre

Party, Line.

le avoided seconing aberaly contentious do debate

or discussion because to banted to be on the stue of those who

counted most terms or authority and leuderspor

is worked

well wath people ou sanittees but became tina thus issues

of romeus were ay stake

desare they die destresser hener

on 81a1s.

Hernever :

Note writa person on perse authority

or Standing but went along as a

good guy.

Hans con tess cleur of personal gote que ano mascurering:

In the Party!s Nepto cure, which is perpetually diviductand rarea

wilh unending rivalry and backuiling, he strives to play lie role

of the middleman or the pacifier.

As a speaker, Wiuston is uf the roug!-and-tunble type

who is a good agitator. He makes an effort lo assume a dignificu

stance on the platfona and soldon resorts to exagrurated oratorical

antics.

He gives cvory indication--in speech and in vocabulary-

of having had minial schooling.

His extenpore languane is

chupps, jasuganizco, coiloquial, and tuli of aspromiciation

o! even

sanple words. I: has virtually no besiaos

skill and is

• not known to haye aucho.ud any type oi documer: during has long

career in tie Party.

Specches, reports, and articies issued

under his name are the work of ghost writers.

---

## Page 29

Ic

CI

---

## Page 30

2 25006м

015 7916 Sa tas 732

York:

nat Party

1n

de: Star 17.

(aus arcis)

radi so pue dezaiday when the adamatration talks of cussing milliary spending and

of savira ta alves of ü.s, semicezar..

ahe communita-abcadeve, thas rio: a cent cholald

se spent on the aggressive war baged shousands on -dea away fron sta shores of our

•:'1

wnry finsion. cendeard the campaior of polltical parsécution conducied sy

authorites.

= in quica sung, ho

the

u.s.

carasized, that the forthco-ing tria;

oc Angela

Dares an Calicomla 1s

= policieni

conspiracy. Inebangela Davis a fed days

a60.

men ah calo with hoo

I Decane even Lor convinced ori cha political gracter of thia

tric:

She case co migela Davia has béen crazed upay the racialiss and anti-

conist forces o. the

State do Cassiorala.

201-006897

---

## Page 31

(3 ABRICAS)

ase Washinaton DAiLy hens pointe ous et

Laxpajers 10o pixion dollars arimaly

she "Peace Coops Flora, which coste

ad tolstratos find better ways to use trase funds...

ques not word, and minens chat the

oratesar rachenaton nas in tact accontensed tre ratiue or ase peace corpst actavity.

is evidenced by tre White Bossels deciston

-to

deg de she

Peace, Corps with vista,

so-called corps of teachers.

me adsivaty or such centralized ivolunteer

House, say ortno Creater returna for the

(cel, 1r the optacon of the anale

dollars

But the u.S.press

casto serous doubt ba the erse

siveness of the adainistration,

Plans, and not without reason.

The, fageless

ten fear activity o

A the reace Corpst sace bary sa Aerica convinced

that do one? except for.

ideolomeal saboteurs, needs this

Arolunteero orcanization.

HENRY WINSTON DESCRIBES O.S, RACIST POLICESS

arrass internation service in Engitan 0903 or 7, P0T2

05-40):

New york

cob 37 55 09 908 es the lau faculty of the tele unsversius in

see Maven on prosta kational Grauraan of the Contrase farsy or are onited states

Henry Winston has said

sizon's -2o11ey, almed atrexpansion o. the war In Canbodia

-Laostland

roos of indo China, to actually the racialist policy of American

Importalisa

one Minston hate chasized that the polter of the presentesy sovernent of tha

unites States becoses incr

easingly Zenacing.

intersicicasion of raciss

and anticozunisn

henry wins on sate this polley loads to

component:

pares of the progragne, aimed

as ellaination of the restatance to the

governments line:

Current reprisals airst civil rigit righters are only the beginning of a eampalen

wich was launched with the ale os breaking the resistarce of she segro people.

mis campaign 1s row spearneaded against Angela

Davis, a sjebol of struggle against

racism and citicoranisa.

mese reprisals, if thoy are hos sudy rebuffed, will

suborror spread to the whole of the frican poople, blacks ard unises.

me abrucele

in detence of Argala Davis and other political prisoners is, therefore, tro mattor of

honour for all A-ericans, who cherish freedom and peace.

U.S. CONFUNIST PARTY ISSUES STATEMENT ON INGELA DAVIS

ROSCoW TASS Internatioral Service 1n

EnglIsty

0820 GUT. 28 Peb 7: 1

[Texel

New York,

Ped

of the usA

Issued

28,

MASS-- Tre

gral Womers Cor-ission of the Corunlat Party

the following stateze

for Internatioral Wasons Dayi

are vícious frameup persecucion or Algei

attaci upon the signis of all uro strida:

fro= capitalist exploication.

In Accition

woüld escape the jose of racist oparession

Davig by the Nixo--igrew-Reagan axis 11 an

for peace, desocratle rights ard freedon

Angela Davia shares tro plight o? all who

741-006887

---

## Page 32

SECRET.

3 E

ICTION OF

DO D

DOPER EUR 3, 59 8X CA 5, GI/SO 2

SECRET OSISSAT JUN 70 CITE

48712

5 Jul:: 097527

DIRECTOR INTO

ECPIPIT

INTEL

SUPDATA:

ZRAHOD FOR HOS. CONMENT OTHERE PREYTOUS REPORTING

ON BUDAPEST MEETING.

KRCASH/T. HYU LAY

RELAY

WITHOUT FIELD COMMENT FOR

PASSACE TO LIAiSON IF ALL REFERENCES

RENOVED, USING -BYLINE AFRICAN MARXIST WITH GOOD

CONTACTS IN ENTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST CIRCLES.

INDEX:

ULYANOVSKLY FILE: QUARACRP

FILED:

0513542

WINSTON HENRY.

201

SECRET

---

## Page 33

Pipicalua

SECRET

DO MOTto

THIS COPY

PRONIBITED

ANL -2514

AF. 9

NATIO

DOP, EUR B, SE 8, CANS, CI/SO 2

SECRET OSISSAZ JUN 70 CLTE

DIRECTOR INFO

LCPIPiT

INTEL

4071

S Jun: 097527

SUPDATA ZANAHOO DOR HOS COMMENT IF THÊRE PREVIOUS REPORTING

ON BUDAPEST MEETING. KRCASHAI. HYU MAY

RELAY

wITHOUT FIELd cOMMeNT FOR

PASSAGE TO LIAISON IF ALL REFERENCES

REMOVED, USING BYLINE "AFRICAN MARXIST WITH GOOD

CONTACTS IN INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST CIRCLES.

INDEX: ULYANOUSKIY FILE: QUARAQRP

FILED: 6513542

WINSTOR, HOWRY

20 l

SECRET

---

## Page 34

SECRET

CIA INTEPNAL USE ONLY

INTELIGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE S JUNE 1970

IN

097527

PAGE 1 OF? PAGES

The following intelligence information, transmined from o CLA Field Station, requires reviewe

Dinaton for BACKGROUND USE ONLY I S0O 2.

COUNTRY: USSR/ AFRICA

Dol:

LATE APRIC 1970

SUBJECT: PLANS FOR WORLD COMMUNIST REETING AND FOR MEETING

OF AFRICAN COMMUNISTS

1. CONSIDERATIIN S BEING GIVER TO HOLDING ANOTHER

MEETING OF WORLD-W DE COMMUNIST AND WORKERS PARTIES. A

PREPASATORY MEETINI FOR THIS MAY BE HELD IN BUDAPEST GEFORE

SECRET

---

## Page 35

097527

STDCS

PAGE 2 ONE PAGES

SEGRET

THE END OF 19700 AMONG SUBJECTS TO BESDISCUSSED ATS THE

PREPARATORY MEETING WOULD BEAUHETHER OR NOT TO CONVENE

A PEEKING OF AFRICAN COMMUNIST AND IF SO. CHERE VANI

THEN IT SHOULD BE HELDS

DURING A DESTING ULTH THREE

LEADING PRO-CO MUNIST NIGERIANS TO MOSCOW ON 30 A

1976, POSTISLAV A ULYAN ON SATY, A DEPUTY CHIEF

OF THE INTERSATIONAL DEPARTHENT OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE

OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF THE SOVIET UNION (CC-CPSU) URGED

THEM TO CONSIDER ATTENDING THE PREPARATORY CONFERENCE IN

ORDER TO PARTICIPATE, IN DISCUSSIONS OF THE ALL-AFRICA MEETING

(FIELD COMMENTS THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED IN TOCSD8-315/

22646-70 ON OTHER ASPECTS OF THIS MEETING SETUEEN OFFICIALS

OF THE CC-CPSU AND NIGERIAN TRADE

UNION LEADERS W. O. GOODLUCK AND

S•U• BASSEY AND NIGERIAN AFRO-ASIAN PEOPLES

SOLIDARITY OFFICIAL-DAPO.,FATOGUN.)

RUTHE IDEA OF AN ALK AFRICA RESTING OF COMMUNISIS

DAS INITIATED BY AFRICANS ANDING THE MEETINGS OF VORLO

CONNUNIST LEADERS IN MOSCOU ON 21 AND 22 APRIL 1970. AMONG

THE AFRICAN (SICS COMUNISIS ATTLIDING THE MELTING VERE

SECRET

---

## Page 36

IN 097527

TOCS

PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

SEGRET

Then

(FMUD W

MINST ON OF THE UNITED, STATES AND DELEGATES

FROM SOUTH AFRICA, MOZAMBIQUE, ANGOLA AND GUINEA-BISSAU.

SO FIELD DISSENS STATE:

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM COUTROLLED DISSEN CP-LE

SECRET

---

## Page 37

Ronald Stavenson, des.i

Blockedo of Cuba Nis

U.f, concura

"?..

By TOMFOLEY

NEw YORK. Sopra- Amaran gene

11170.01121

10-201

20685}

DAILY WORLD Saturday: September 6,1952 Page:

Brazil junta

gives in

RIO DE JANISO 50S3

command. the Foreign Ministe

The Bravan covera:

and high nationa authorities

went bound today to le demands

this way he responsibilit

St a band of ten see deter

will be completely upon the head

mined mon who sid epped U:S:

rof the kidnappers for the Safety e

sarick and

Ambassidory D. Burke: Elbrick

threatened to execure tic

the statement sang

The

Foreta

Man

The kidnappers were, believe

nounced in salese politica

to be members: ol

pasoners as demarty the naguerrilo group made up mosay c

courcerent came hat an hour

Brazilian university students. 1p

se expiration

initials/ stand for lover

of an ultimatum that presumably

Revolucionaria and the 8 refer

would have meant drith for the

to the date of the death of Ernest

sl-venr-old envor

The /Guevara, the Cuban revol

The

ambassador mis

seized

adary killed in Bolivia Ock E

by a band of feur men on a Riode

Sarciro street Thursday and the

kidrappers

set 1 C?3!

cute of 43

hours

their comands

1u. be

mel.

Ther repeated the climatum

marring but mired up. the

coadice der aeceptance, of their

sarands

8:30 p.m.

•11:50

EDT. jodar.

The government arran

ament

care at.le.30 p.ra

• 11:37 a.m.

EDTi

mier it receited a hand

walien

fren' the

ambassa:

nife sara:

at he was

nel buts;

pRo gui-

acreta

shut he

termined

miginal

Swiss protest

Westmoreland

planned visit

GENEYA:

¡ Geceral Westmore

1a-d..

L'S

Chief of Stall. will

make an official four day visit la

Switzerlard beguining Sept 11.

Westmoreland

formeris

com

marder-in-chief

arme:

forces in

South

Vietnam

t'1:

familiarize himself pith the stal:

of combut readines

if the sai.

anand forces.

il alie 1.

meet a cumber of Si

to millar.

ianing centers

Curite

organ it the this Paii

sarand sicol because

Winston.

natte

chich co.

nas pub

chii:

---

## Page 38

alfeets that

Sland bui

Percyc

Turis-:

Recordinary American bi

bosses:

thunupols

P3es:0n'a

number of dems feuding

the

the Craman: PartedCura!

There 1 was ate to vegerve

the crimes

sicel and nickel that ears sato his

car sad reinigerator Winstca

the cour

Tatarta.

1-al Si-Fo

surce de'ralaria.

uba hes combaied molare

also the conceness marter

ta te

pointed out: Cuba has jo percent:

2ol she world's: nickel' diposits.

which, the solstist gorernest

he noed.

if Cuba has underianen :Jurase

loe schiet L'nich."

Merborize spre

cos cos

Meride tre

truster on

Country sit

sired it

rames will

Indicated?" sta

governnient ger ta rublic dia:

- rent:

The decision dus sakenalte

a meeting of te hich milita

There's no, deter

on the Daily World.

ICe at your reus stand.

Winston gave his views to a

the effect of these crices."-he

Cuba s

train

concera

press conference at Communist

said.

totas is the batte for inde trial.

* The economic blockade aCuta

126:107

of. the country

Part Headquarers Here a few

Wirsion

nor: onls altects normal tade

days alger his return !.om Cuba.

*He 1a a Communist Party dele:

sugar. steel: logsters* tz.

aid. tressing that the fight to

produce 10 railhon sons af sugar

scientific exchaase. for exiliete,

is an important one in Cuba and

galica shas visited evers province:

Winston poisted out.

Black GIs anti-war action

reported in South Vietnam

in Cuba sa August

will help it to meet international

Doctors are prevented froggo

cormitments and improve: the

ing to Coba, exchanging intorma:

Sée editorial Paze 7

The blockade of Cuba affects

perratic and politiest relucas

berkers CiS. and Latia america

he went on

C:S. consumers bit:

%. It's not onty a matter ut sugar

but alta steél. in terms of the U.S.

Steel monopoly: and truse

*. he

said

"It's rot only sugar prices -

Cuba is the world's second largest

sugar

troducer

= but teren the

price is fobsters."

Tastes d'of reccivine Cuban lubr

sters lS consumers get lobsters

iren 1e raustrascist and apart-

regime of South Africa.

ssid.

This trade hetwech

South

Africa

actually

regime which opposes

ng décent in ihe world."

aphasized that reversal

ice of the Vison Almin-

osards Cuba is Mie enly

ancter

delieving

sonsings towards Latin

mechanization of agriculture

tion: from helping 8o train rech.

Cuba is shoring how a cruntry

nicians and uber dectors.

can.

develop under cocialism.

from using teribeons. he added:

he curcluded, -This. in turn. is

Life span rode:

*Despite all sis.

kang a ven dramatic effect on

some most

it restint Lata America. This'is

inspiring developmeats in suedial

ely cormaticing relations with

are Laking. placerin-Cuba ledar

¿Cuba is'a prerenuisite for develop

he

said. Despite this 1505/cr

Ins coronal relations sith: Latin

scicrtific exchunge. thelitt span America.

protes. July 30 in the port base et Qai Ston. in Ninb Hea prosince.

according to a report by the Liberation Press Agency of South fier

#am.

The report, as transmitted bo Preosa Lating, said as ibe mem

marched from one end of the base to the other and also marchedon

the focal airport.

They reparedly

"shouted slogars-demanding

rpeace, the endorthe t.S. aggression ia tieram and the immediate

wahdrandlột se Cs. troops."

is it the airpurt she black Gis banded with cops who tried to stop:

he demonstration.

Episcopalians vote $200,000 "reparations'

By RICHARD GREENLEIF

Negro priple for centuries of

oppression

Lucius Walker. Jr

execture like'a voung lads whokrows what

director

the Interreligious

to do to get a joung man's altca

NEW YORK Sopt 3- Church

The resolction adopted by the

Foundation for Continunit O:-

lion. thea falling sack on her vir

leaders to the ls: are sullus.

Episconalians included a passage

ganization. so which he charged

tue shen the question's pipped.*

ing to evade ile: princinies see-

relecting the, "iscolay

of thie

forth lathe Black Manifesto: even

that many churches and synages:

Ile

suggested that recourse

Manifesto

ves were secting to avoid doir?

might be had lo the Uv or ar

though some churches are making

The Rew Ceorze 3. Murray.

anything about the Black Mari.

international court of lass.

parments on the reparations de

Bishop of Alabarak said in the

festo...

The 1915. Paris, Conference:

count which the Manifesto holds

course of the debale: I cannot

Walker

was. addressing

he argued, established the validity

they owe black Americans.

vote. for a

group: whose, only

National Catholic Conference for

of reparations. being giten to in

Such is tre situation following

record, is this manifesto, a sio

Interracial: Justice.

this week's action by a contention

mecting

Trat. Marxist document.

in

dividuals rather ihan to nations.

Los Angeles: IFCO is the group

One of the most fervent pleas

of the Fpiscipal Church.

which

But the resclunch did reeng-

which financed the niceting

made at the Episcopalians" mecti

alter too dars of beated drate

nize the Black Eccaonic Devel

Detroi: earlier this year at which

ing was that of the Rey. Juniu:

in South

Read.

lisil..

rpirene Conteresce as a more-

the BEDC was founded and the

F. Carter. Negro roctor uf Holg

$200.000 to 190 Block Frenoirie

nient for

the seif.

Manifesto formulated

Cross Episcopal Church in Pitts

Divelopment

Recep which

dermination

ut the black coin-

inurity.

"Alter all the churches" rhe:-

burgh.

promulgatet 1.

uric about lore, bestherhood and

"I am sick of you." he cried

Manifesto and his torn clients

jastire."

liater said, "at mary

"You: don't trust me, you don

critice parenchis on die i

• :: 11-

real he mus vece boldy to lion id days the churches due tie

The alien Mulland by less tin

lso nreas an address by the Rev.

points it is thorent when ta:

trust black priests: and you don"

seal proposition is put, arting

tru blacs people.

---

## Page 39

is the anti-

what 1 hase siid..

ran Fetroleum Cont

scists 2.000 2701

manifesty

for a weens of at water. last

cartied

out a (wolaind policy. They bo

in June. 198S D

'failed to do

member states in Jus

haved one was when negotiating

denucrats and police

so. and this had a bad influence

the Polish capilal: Cert: satu

othcialls and another wadsber

Deo Nazi election

in the clertions then beine held

that it he had known'a dite.had

Thes- Should have detene the

eurned in Saarbruerk., for the

proposey"eirjordinars

NET

Rect Linghausen

Czechuslovake purts. cungress

sotel: in the predium that

"swo words

man teste

Lani

her towns..A: Coul

cuttee ol Struggle Against

in September.

Czerhoslovakia Shoult:

retune the

Continued onpage.

arisi has been formeik

mands have been

made br

targaritions that the NDl

annes The Well • German

Casa of Emploves is.

'Blockade must be ended, l

as the most recent to do so.

--U.S. Communists in Cuba

Go nationalized

ZIBAR The government

Special to the Daily World

nig ot housing.

sehool

decided go nationalize all-pri

HA VANA.

short an advance on

every.

allenry

Aug: 7028:

Twill establishi a

frunt,

transpart sertire

Winston.

na tronat

nia mclude tormer abus

chuirman of the Communist

The

Hairs of Cameruey

showy

concreter the boldness, in the

*bai

will be paid a fixed

Parts of the US A richo is

planning of construction and' the

heading an American Com-

mass undertaking in cadre trai

munist delecation sting

ing to be able fu manage. ths an

dertaking:

Icamelection

here. issued the following

ANTIAGO The Communist

statement:

Just imagine a plan which be

of cale sill run its ousn

US imperslism. before

the

Runs with the dads output of 11,000

didate en nest year's presi.

revolution, arevunted for 35 per

Inters of mik: to be increased to

Mal Clerion The candidate s

rent of Cuba s imports and 66 and

one Million per dis: And what

ne will be disclosed in Septem-

two thirds percent of all her ex-

then". The creation ofra milk-

ports.

processing plant in which all-kinds

How to strangle in-infancy the

al dairy products will be develop

ge ban on fascists

greatest event of our time in this

ed.

EREIS - The Union of Per.

hemisphere was the main concern

HENRY WINSTON

Such is the approach in every

i Persecuted Under. Nazism

of the

U.S.

monopolists.

They

field.

; akain demanded a ban on the

broke off diplomatic and trade

own eyes how an entire people is

Of preat beauty is that racisi

e fascist National: Democratic

relations.

geared to the accomplishment

practices ended with imperialism

ry in West Berlin.

The West

The mass release of revolution-

of the main Lasi of realizing with-

and among the many great lessons

rin NDP is preparing for a

ary energy. the unity and creati-

in one year 10 million tons of sug:

uf this revolution is the equality

ivention schiduled for October"

vity established among the perple

ar

established between black, white

Adolf.

son. Thadden. NDP

ol Cuba. demonstraied what a free

Simply put. this means the ach-

and mulatto.

chrer. will arrive in September

people can accomplish.

ievement of 20 billion pounds of

The cause of Cuba must be

oversee aclivities and-to par-

They lound reliable friends in

sugar in 12 months. That kind of

come the cause not only uf Com-

the soviet Union. ther socialist

production could give more than 6

punists but uf all democrats.

ipate in the ralls in October.

The West Berlin city adminis-

states. and many other countries.

pounds uf sugar to each of the 3

anti-imperialists and radicals..

tion: has not arrested: NDP

'Blochade gill fail

billion humans on this earth.

The story of Cuba must beroine

imbers who were involved in

Socialism

in Cuba continues

The enthusiastic light for this

known to the millions of our land

• desecrazion of a monument lo

developing.

qual grips the prople.

What this

The economic blockade must go.

Lims of fascist violence.

The

anti-Cuba policy of U.S

means in terms of Cuba: is helping

This barbarito is the essence of

imperialism .now

includes

the

lo lus the foundation dur the must

U.S. imperialist policy. The peo

bluckude.

This policy. lou. will

rapid developinent of industry and

ple can and must compel the Nit-

apid progress

(ail.

agriculture.

which will be biased

on administration lo put an end

CARACAS

- The Communist

Our delegation sub with their

on the latest scienutie lexhniques.

tu this criminally.

rty of Venezuela.

which was

seal less than a vear ago, cel.

raled co August 8 its National

y. with metings throughout

1- country.

The central father-

f-was in Maracay, where the

conference of Communists

as Deld 31 gears ago.

On October I. the weekly Tri-.

aa will become a daily:

Why wait' til tomorrow

you can find out

¡today's Daily World

Special to the Daily World

HAVANA. Aug. 28 - N. U:S: Communist Party delegation. leaded by national

chairman Henry Winston has returned here from the interior of the country where

it witnessed a tremendous mobilization in the drive to harvest 10 million cons of

sugar in a vear.

The delegates

returned last

week from

Camagues. one of

the main

centers ut the sugar

industry.

Greeted by Cuban leaders

The 10 million-con goal is the

main economic lask

set br

the

Cuban Communist Party and the

Resolutionary Government

for

achievement by the sear ending

July 26.1970.

tarher. after their arrival in

Ilarana on Sunday, Aug. 10.

the

delegation visiled other projects

in

the

Ise if lines and the

provincies of Las Villas and Ca-

maguey.

Receiving the U.S. delegation

un their arrival were Command

er Hamiro Valdes.

37, member

of the Political Bureau al the

Cuban C.P.:

Carlos Rafael Ro

drauer. reinber of the secre

Lariat of the Central Committee

and Commander Jesus Mantane:

Contineed as page L!

Carly Wold 29 hugt9

---

## Page 40

1.201

avy

Delegation of CP

visiting Cuba

NEIV YORK: Aug

ticial:

sux-person, delegationg ol

the Communst Parti.GU.S.A:

headed bus

nilinnal charman

Henry

• Winston. isanowtm, Cuba

at the Invitation of thé Cuban

Communist:

Ibi is: 10rst

such delegativo since 1980.

"We are cathusaste about the

delegation and feel ereat pride

in it and the reinforcement of

warm.

cordial cooperation

(ween

be-

the Cuhán! Communist

Party and ours. James Jackson,

chairman of the International

• Department if "The Communist

Party. tild the Dailv World.

He recalled that Cuban Presi-

HENRY WINSTON

dent Fidel Castro himself had

invited Winston in Cuba to re-

cuperate after the eye operation

Winston underirnt in

prison

that resulted in loss of his eve.

sight. Castre otere to exchance

"gusanos"

"sorins,

term

applima. so. Cubans. who

rially elected by the national

committee and brings to Cuba

the warm, comadel grectings

st sur party and of the Amori.

ran proplo, alo sook normal

internatia.

peonernie. and

uura:

cul-

relations

lietween.

111'5.

turned againse their oun coun-

try in the sersee o imperial-

rindom in the Western homi-

ismo for Winchon ello in pri-

98857.

apoho-t..

'agradelo pelallons

botar-on

There have lone breg warm

malr party

ined the C'abar

C'om

hondi belwren thre

(uh.in pra

munis under the doider hin ut

ple ind the people nd ihro

Fidel daero will he stronathien.

•lacksrin sieard

The epportunis

ond hus thas serre os desclasions

Prises for de chanue in alberal

which wall contrhule do a nores.

relations

r: rompiasan dir dar the bos-

•States and Caba

COMBNOTSTATEMNT

ind regeise

the present

inaconstie polies at the dinier

Viet patriors 3

hit 137 targets

ned from pare 1

temptilo ourtiank the Democrauc

Republie of Vietnam and petimo

passion alens uls wester border

Pathet Lap. counterattacked

aptured the important aur

/Stuong Sous

ca. miles south ol. Muong

e the two secret CIA bases

Sam Thung and Long Thien heid

CIA:

ancestimated 31:150

-US Special: Forces troops. arid?

seral Thaiartillerv units: Theor.

eticalls.

the two

bases are un

der the control of the Rosal ban

General Vang Pao. Actualls: thev

are controlled from the Special

Forces headguarters in Udorn.

Thailand

Long Thien. in the mountains rin

the western edge of the straicgie

f'lan of dars. is Special Forces

headquarters for lisos. contain-

ing the "Green Beret" supplvand

command center

General Yang Poo. like the units

under Soreal Forces comniard.

is of 3i0o nationalito.

The charges hi laos Premier

Sobranos

**80.000

North Varinainese have insaded

Linss in solation et the 1962 agree.

ment on the neutralization of the

reunire.

are aerodle related to

the dard that Sand Thong and Long

Thien

are threatened hy Pather

thad the closer the lathel 1ao goe

to the Cla "Tireen Beret"'

the

conter.

Sousanny Thoma's

cries sall locomo

nature of dames Daram, chair-

117.317:

"The Communse. Pure irir.

"The delesting wall base con

"neutralts"

jogo coalan, in, eno trots à man sho approved

Cates and sol! ex-

IDEAIDT.

19

Ilia 868'48

hoaded bi llen:s

Mational

Wir long

eaop.

fra

Thie 8!5

Pire desuma ches hombing 18ien

real ir lontrale:

Romanian CP congress ends

with call for socialist.unity

ACHAREST. AM 19.0101.

das ender romana: Burk diss.

TOURAs DaT8: 14149898 119 191

another lour

saunating era lus 110018.00819.8.r

Mald malinns and in the darll

unanimals do lobons pound

h.all 10 ali dead ehanteng

Hallie Donaldson

memorial Aug. 24

16.r.d

ro-plerdred dre

DAILY WORLD , Wed

Get Into the Soli

THE BI

Sunda

Arrow

your plenie"

NOW

1$1:301:

Cbil

10t

WE WEED VOLUNTERN

TO MARE

WI MELO: Somera 0e food

saleoble Itens:. Coel

•DO YOU MAUE A CARI

BASHUL JOIN THE DOR

'A.Doy: of

ING,

BASEBALL vOLL

REV. KIRKPATRICK FOLI $

SOUL FOOD

PUERTO RICAN 'FOOD."

Orlet and Eal «se

LHICAGO

GUS

General S

THE RECENT WORLD

THE NEW UPSURGE OI

FRIDAY.

AUG. 22,8 p.m.

Forst of o

50%

of t

Donation: $1

arudento: 50c

Support

THE DALLY ALA

$189

ENCIOSEO FIND.

---

## Page 41

DOCUMENT.

SECRET

TRANSFER:

AND. CROSS REFERENCE

LÊ NO

:050-001-121

MEXC-09202

ISOTIN-

CTEANUW T6OA

HIN -10936

USA

P2

DLe 8

WESTIAN HEMISPHERE

NIP- ONULUSLU MELDANG V

CÜMMUNISI LEAUERS IN MLAILU IN NUVEMBER UR

ULLINUER 66.

A.6012200608

HUCULÜHIPUFGHGSHAÜ-

FILE IN 201-

1$7

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867.600

• SECRET

8H4 dh1

---

## Page 42

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

- 050-004-124

SLX. A NUU ?

MEXI-09133

04 NUV 66

CIT USA:

HAM - 10820

P 2

KES PRUSICIAN CUMFERENCE

OF COAMUMIST

PARTY LEADERS IN MEXICO.

UFGHEPHAGHLSHLO

R 6612130492

FILE IN 201-SCCesS7

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

"SECRET

---

