# 104-10162-10086

## Page 1

104-10162-10086

110

DATE

mal: 1 OCT 60

LASSIFIED MESSITO

SERRET

7O

DIRECTOR

15-1

FROM A L

ACTON. 6/H 9

IO a D61, 0/Wei, DO/p, CoR, ADOR/A, CÁrE Z, 9/6 20

1433:

OCT 1 09497 60

ROUTINE

DIR CITE

8L35 Four

(R)Y

IN 21068

C/S CANENT: • DISSEMINATION APPLICIO

JHET

TE RELAT DIVOUR WHAT CASLES.

10 FOLLOVING REPORT RECEIVED ERCii(SHURil):-2 ON 30 SEPT.

CABLED THROUCH JANET CHANNEL IÜ VEEN SUSJICT. (SHOTH REQUEST

CABLI COMMENT ON ECCURSEY REPOT AS SOC. AS POSSIDLE,

PARTICULARLY CiTE LENDARD O. SECURITY EF THE 730 LEADERS.

SOURCE: OFFICIAL

SERVICE FROK. "HEY AND UNTRIED

SOURCE." DOI: LATI AUGUST S2.

2• DURING -THE THIEN - I SUGUST & A SPANISH

JOUENALIST WAS INVITIO DY THE FIVS LEADIES OF THE TENTE

REVOLUCIONARIO = COCO SEEDS, MANUEL AITCILO VAPONA,

MAILE" ARTINE SUES!, E?. JUSTO CRARILLO VERRANDEZ, JOSE

IGNACIO RASCO Y PETUDEZ AND AURELIATO SAICHEZ ARANGO, TO

WINCH IN A CUE: •ESTAURI IN INXICO CITY WERE THEY DISCUSSED

THEIR PLANS SO LOUDLY, CALISSLY A' SO -IS-SCRESTLY THAT

THE SPANIANO TOLSO SE DIFFICULT TO TAKE TIEN SERIOUSLY AID

COULD TO SEE THEM CRGANIZINE A SUCCESSTER RISING IE.INST

.1

*tri

_ SECREL

REPROOUETON DY OTHER THAN THI ISSUINE OTFICE IS PROMINITED.

Copy Ne

RATUDIO MA

Baures:

Do NOt i

mentsace

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLISSIFIEO MESSIE

P3808 1

zies

THE CAS-RE PEGINE. THEY SESHRO TO LNCH MEY CONSTrATOR:

SENSEO AND FIVE NETE LIVING IN 012 EuR 10003 1:

POLANCO THUS IXPOSING TIEYSELIES TO TAS RANGER CE 2256

LIQUIDATED AS A GROUP BY CUSAN GOVT AGENTS WHO WERE PUTTLESS

FICUSH TO ATTINT THIS IF THEY FELT THE SITUATION HARRAINES

IT. HONEVER, BY LIVING AND ASSECIATING AS FORGLE TUZY MADE

IT EASIER TOR THE CLEAN ENSASSY TO WITCH 712E.

30 THE FRD LEADERS STATED THY LIZ RICEIVING "VERY LARGE

MONOGDALE" WE AS POON THE LISTED STATES, MARISENLY WITH TIE

CONNIVANCE OF VOSO GITHONG TES. THY INPLIES THESE 103 MERE 22-19

SUGGLED INTO MAXICO CITY VIZIT TAY LETE CACIEO. TI: CISCUSSED THSIR

PLAN TOR SETTING LO A MOTO TRINSLITTINO STATICN IN INFLE TO IRONISAST

TO THEIR :FFILIATIO GACLOS LISE URE IN LATT: NONEN ME PROPHERROR

TO CUBA. THE SUMIGRO TACUOT MESE WIDRONESINC VEIRES, MIER FEE

TEXICAN GOVE ' ITS PRESENT FROM OF MaiD, diS SUCCEE:2O T.= F3S

DO ITS BROALCASTING FROM MOBILE SETS.

DO THE FPD LIADERS INDICATES FREY VERE PREPAPING AN INVASION OY CUBA

AND FROM THEIR REMARKS ABOUT Z:Z THE TICHHIQUE AND DEIJICITIES CS

SUCH AN OPERATION, THE SPANIARS GUESSED THAT THEY WERE GIG IDVISES

BY UOS. MILITARY EXPIPES. HE OFFERED TO INTRODUCE THEY TO A SPRISE

MILITARY EXPIRE NOU LIVING IN MEXICO SUT TUEY SUONED ITTLE INTEREST.

SO THE FPD ISADERS INVITID THI SPANIARD TO DROP YIS CTIER

ACTIVITIES AND JOIN THEM AS AN ORGANIZER AT ANY SALARY IE THOUGAT

PASCHADIO THEY APPEARED BELL SUPPLIED WITH FUNDS. HE DID NOT REPLY

DEFINITELY, BUT SI HAS NO INTENTIOY OF JOINING THEM BECAUSE HE HAS

LITTLE FAITH IN THEIR ABILITIES, AID BELIVIS IF THEY CONTINUE IN THEIR

PRESENT VEIN THE MALL RER ASGUL OS MEXICAN AUTHORITRES LEND OF MESSAGE: "

SECRET.

ROOLSTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PACHIBITED.

---

