# 104-10290-10026

## Page 1

104-10290-10026

• CREA

I Ae.m&h..

$ 164604905910

30 May 53

03 10 z

SIC CEN

86007

14.430

SOLA" 11-444H7D MONTHIN INTO DELLASCELE TO

08 CHEAT OFT: IF LETTIMED 8Y REEZELAN AUTIONITIES ON NO 10Y,

FROTIDNS NOSY IX-IONS iS FECES FEARS OF HAY. CUBAN SUPPORT FOR

THIS TIMIZILNE TONIIGE MINISTER HAS ANNOLICED THAT CARABAS WILL

LAY FORMAL GRANGRA CONCIRIUNI TRI ANIS CACHE BRINE A DECISE I-

INC IS LATIN AMBRICAT TOREILL HIRINTENS CHIDULND FOR DEC, VOLION

IN TRYS, CANA IN MYS! ANE TRAT THE COMRIL OF THE, ORGANIZATION

OF ANNEICAN STATES HE CONTONED POX CONSILTATION ON TEN MORE.

SIZIR IS NISHII 14008 TO SUPFORT THE VENKIDELAN CLAIN THAT

TED TRAFOR "AN FRON COTA MINE APPRONIMATELY THREE TONS OF UNAPONE

INCLUDE LIGHT ANDRA"S" PIILES AND SUBICHINTS-GUNS INITIXID AS

MONG THOSE THIFTH "D AMA FROM BRUSION IN 1909 AND 1900. THEI

ZI4S ALSO HORTALE MAZODIAO. HECOTLES EITLES, AN ATTICH OF

BECEST

.::!

Coor".

---

## Page 2

CRIET

-DMF8. 1H0-

CITE DIQ

CMIAPOID

resl)s "tt

85088

&nst

Nl. 2.9A49.10

ViTET ROGIPIENT VENE

"ETIARO TON TYRNESRIAN

COM07444 9191N0XLIPUNTANI, MUE AMIRD' POlCHi) dF SATTONAL NtiUmAries.

IUE LACHE MAS TGIND OU 1 MOY ON A NRACH IN HALCON ITATE, MCHHI

ON TAY MAR LRONEE GURETILA DIPONT. TEi VOLEULeW OuieRms

ASBUTES MLAT THE MRAIONE SENH UYS FEA CORA 8Y MBA, IRIB IB'10T

COMPIRHID, ENS CHERE YIENIN TRBARLS VARE PEIORTNDLY UURD TO TRANSTORT

"LATONS SU SOL'YS AXANA, A DTTUNO TUI LATTIR PART OF OCT.

VOR MRR THAN VARLE IAPRO YHE CABTEO PNGINE RAS TRITD TO AVOID

ACTIONS TRAT NOLIS TIAILY LINLICATE IT IN DINDCT SUPAORT OP LATIN

JISLIE LIVNISSONNG MÙ MIMHS NOTBNIDTI HIII SH::CHAAI MTONIA

JUIR AJI DUGEZE 18E ITUTNC! NAICE CABIRO NOT GIVES TO NIS SUEVERSIU

HPOET. ON KIN NBLIKITE EAS IU VENEHOBLAN BITOATION NOM IE RIPH

MNA FARAI UOIG•A

RRAX"Y

ETATSIITE BY ERESIDENT COOLALT AM

CRETE PHOWISN PU,ÜNA. SES KERTIR; POXITICAL TARSIONE DYGR.

COWENÜ N' ULI.: U HE MELIT THAT "SOCIAL DISASTEN MAY

EIS INYHPNIN I.ININ, :, 4Y TYICID RAVE DRAVN SRARP CRITICIAN

SACRE:

lel jol. 1e lle Da Mãdoe.100.2D

Capy Han

• sisaod$

---

## Page 3

..:.

582i5.

56007

...

:%:. *E INADERO, TREY BAVE ALSO RE-

IN IN "'T iT? AN ENCTS THAi STRAINS ANS INCREASING

NOT INA: SORTO CARE AS CHERN IS ALPERT COVERIA CARLOS LACEDDA,

THIS SITUATO! HIS FINIT E ICUIIIA BIRD I. HE ANNY BETWEEN

ОПЛІСТАВ АРО ЄБАНАУТУ

• 3, ACHITTA-CLIN 1SHAS99 DE THE COMTNIST PARTY OF BOLIVIA

MD, IN D ESS. : HI TO TOSSOE FIFIN. KET ON IS NOV IN

TIE SONG FOIN 1 T TIRST POLIC INCION

OAT A FED-HINESS IN IS TIRES S MIN TUS PIA TE RAS BKEN PCH

POLICE JUI BRY ACET: ANO FIFLE; DISMATED PRO CHINESE SSHPATETES

22 6n AE.......

83 A RESILT TIF PASTYS ICHTLE

DID HE CATIONA. " ..

MILLAS 1A Si A ORELUNS IPTRAPIRTY

SO: IT HID LEADERS ATTENOT TO EXPEL.

THE RACTED TO

*718

---

## Page 4

ASSIFLE:

MESSAGE

5747

•DEFEARES

8bs1

i-,6 20/8..

ONEY IN MINERET ANY VIANITARAXI ON MIS NORS CONTLEX INBEREDICAL

DIYYIRNRCRS LIYULVES IN THE AXHO-SOVIEY DISPOTS. MOREOVER; TE

FOR AZALE. MARTY NONE, THE MANY FINE

ST JEET, LAS ALZETTATED MANY ICB STATMANTS NICATES OF

MIS ALIBOND TON OF PAIR TIR FOR ME FATHER.

A. OUTTA 10000K TS INTERTATIONNL CHYON OF STUT

¡TICI, A CONTINI NICH TOP. IS MANIES SU TITANIAN A SCHOOL

FOR THE TRAINING OF CONTION IN TIRANTY LANIES. THE SCHOOKE FR

FONTEDLY WILL RE NICATES I FITHER SHAZYL OR CHILE.

•THE SCOOCH POLIN IAN: MORE COUTYSIS IN THE FICHHIQUE OF

STUDENY LADIESH: " 30 1A? TINY NITE EE BETTER ARLE TO COGUTER TET

GROWIN OF BOTH A:OTJI% (R) MOVENENTS IN SEE WIVERSITES. IDE

58+5:1 "O -3 12196815: THAININO CHOCKS IN

453T CHRIS. 1SF ATI ANGRIA SIS VERT MUS EDOCESSION, AND THAT

TRAITIN !

' ISH IDL NOILD BE FUR ADIOXINSTALY

BECKET.

MSFCAТA85

DEBICER

15=0. "

---

## Page 5

siano atenie.

SHIT

madon a

1: 89:9

-4,1889÷1

-141

3600>

.??. 99: о сай: йт пісйО.. УКАР 05

CHIWERBITY

124" iOR FTP i::i !:a*':: 10 EET IE A MAXIONAL CEHIEN IOE

MI SUNTA PAS : LE LEICOVAL 1O NE NO LAST FOLITICAL VITIES,

TE CORTEITATINA E COIN MINERAL TO TOLO MATIONAL CON.

PETITONS. DE 57 PIX: IN. E INIONTANI SOGLALIST PARTY HAB SO

AIC 1" IC: CUA8: CU IN' & FANED & COBENEFONDKAT

---

## Page 6

•G,5dя

1:4010784

1:++514-868-5554

1901.104

POUTINE

-HERE BINT

N1J M1

8600

NO MATTI: INITI NAS MANN INTENS IN MOTION T

'.'..

DE MEATHE NATION IN MOTICE TO I

194W0N04MN41420

AN INURE LUAUS COCES: 4011 80 PARAS TO ANNAT YAN AN INU

I COUNT! CHI TO 1 PAO

8300 Đ0n Ep 24 922-57

1O9 OUT 10 FONTATI

MAN DANNY: 11 6'

CHOTOTAT TAT LI FICTITIT N MOMM. ME PRECITY NATURE OF

178 MINION 246141 2011.970.

CHEON SWINI BY i CARE THE MANUITE AD CONNERIÇAT DEALS MY TER

CS IN COMOSE MUS DIE CORNRATION ADVANTIBES MITREY

IS IT SILKINI SAD SCITANL

" Ah098 5ph o8.

eno +08001496Teso

ІНУНКВТІОДТІМ

8, am.. ..

Critte

---

## Page 7

ir sosise

DEFfRRED.

d91T1N:

₫C 21.3

27475 2096

86007

CINTRONTI ST ANNIRYTE 1O MIPIAB PACEINE CRATES QU TO IBBUR TALE

MONTI COIIII CANI

DAL, 8

CHIE ATTI

TONO 0E

DORE ON THE ANNI CANTIETAN, DOMD NON FIBULT IN A MTE

ASBARSITRTIGN MORRE DE MALIARTEN LE TE COMITE SUO POSALE POERES, II

О ПАСО В КУ! СТОЕ PAIY. ОТРЕЗ АХІСІРАТ ТИК

DRENOCRATIC UNION :.

1/ABOUT 10 MENÃT DI MAL 1, 139, 000 SISTE TOTIS HILL ER

+44+9884-484107941

OFFICE»

"118e

*"*:

•LAN iME iNDURNE DATICi la PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 8

CLASSIPER MESSAGE

11-44

ROUTING

: F18819 iS SHE NEY

DEFERRED

darient

INFO

CUT OR 86007

пиная нго wava Von

VIZZANA DO TEST DELIEVE

TO MIT WANT ST

EN XINONETIAIAT IN MATE. YES PALS VILE

NS TAPES TO SENT SEE CA

THEY, HI TEST

1/NO NITY TILL VIN A INCHITY IN CON

3. AD TE MATICAL

NOTTIN IS ION COITION DORIN TAR LAIR DUCE WRISTON •

D. MONDIRAS: LACKNA CA OUTED PINHISHIT RAMON VILISE

MURALIA' INTRAL FITY HAVE HIT XIT KUROSINO THE MILITARY SRIN

MATCH MOULE ESPARRISA A CONATITUTIONAL GOVERNANT IN FOR FIT-

IN 19 MONTEE. IIICATION IN, SCAVES, THAT THE METT IN INCLINE

TO COOYRRATE WITE TH MILITARY IN CHITALE GUARANT, 3202 M

FIAN TEACTION, ARE FURTACORIS.

...

#ERE+98460011168

attage l

#: 4980819048849

AUTMENTIDATING

OFFIGAR.

Cotor ino.

---

## Page 9

86007

LADIES ALTAMASC SONITO. A LiTTRAL PARTY INADER WIC UNEUCCESS -

FOLLY SOUGHT THE DARIT & PREYIDIITIAL NONIRATION IN THE UPRIN O

1983, MAT PRIVATELY G: 23 M FITA COLONE EE CRATE iT

ARTILANO, THE MILLINET illIE? OU STATE. AS A RESULT OF THIS CON-

VARRATION, ALTABADO FUXITO SAID II HAS PREPARIO TO LOCSSY THE DECREE

ON A NUE LUISTORE LAN. NE IN ALDO POURINE TO SINUE ME SUANEY

IT TAHH SIN THE SI LABOR 047043 15 THE

VITAL SORTE OORST AREL ATTIRES TO RATE DINATIO, LABS LEADS

/'NOTARE SEDICATA MIA ENLITICAL TERION HAT EASE IS TAR

PRATI DENTIAL CARILLY MIAS NAIL IN MATS TO APOID YORKICE AND

HAS BITTE ORDEED :9, FOUND IT ME LITERAL THY TO T

---

## Page 10

#+ 89386798

CLASSIFI

e144 444910

MESSAGE

12.0

3

+..0T

visit; -

ids.

THE DAIUTATAI COMITINT NUTE ONDAHIEADICE (DIC)

40098

N10 3:13

MI M MIA MILAN NI OIT & MINI DISIN M E 00

HA NEI DI MITO BIAT HIT MINI MENA

T93 DISONE KAY ME DI DIONIS I PRETING BE COMMUTISE

*83%

":""

ii.

-Tano "s.

---

## Page 11

'??

is 201

1% 16.58t

11+6-75A6Y 451

3 2 Has 53

3310z

A FROCEN

86007

AME 1OT! CHID AND IF GIAN MADE QUI BRIL RIOD BUEN

SATID AMERICA BIRY

•AJOR" IN HAAITH INHAIN!IC INTO FELLASHBIR TO LIAYBON.)

' CURL FREeNDiA MAX DISCOVARY ON A LARGI CACHE ON MRATONI

EP CIRAN OÑT: MAPOINTO SY WAIEZUILAN AUTBORITINS ON tO ME.

PROVIDIN MINT STAIN,S i LECENT YEARS OF NAY. CUBAN SUPPOIT FOR

MA"AM AMERICAN CONTRESIRA.

I VARULA PORTIG MINIST LAL ANONICS THAT CARNAS WI

MAY DORICAL CHANNA CONCHANINS THE ANTI CACHI ANORS i SACRIL I

IN OS LATIN ANDRICA JUNKINE MIXIBIRS SCHMULD FOR DEC, POLION.

IN TA!, WANA A MI! ANX TA! TUE COVICIL OF THE ORCANIZATION

DO AIRICAN HATZS IS CONTONID FOR COLULTATION CA THE MANI.

SHRUT IS TIPINITE MOOR TO SUPPORT THE VEFLUAN CHAIN THAT

T' I TADOSS CAME INOS COSA, THE APTICKIATILY THIE TOM OF WEANNE

J'M SDIFEZI T. CONA PRO BELGION IN 1959 AND 1900. TE

CARE BAZOORAS HOCDILLES RIPLES. AN AIUNTIION ON

BICAST

• ISSUING •FICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cass ti

---

## Page 12

.....i..

1% 115i mad

6168506-74940117

M32,015 _1

30 Naw53 33 10z

20098

3se ii392

JAIID ANKA-AINLEY

""y2,1"554447

WHEN MITE IPO RELEASERIE TO LIAISON.)

FOIDES NOT ITINE IS BICET LARS OF FAT: CUBAN SUPPET FON

TIE TORESLAE PORKIN MINISTER HAS ANNOURCES THAT CARAMS I

1IC DI SITIN ANDRICAN TORNIA MINISTERE CHIDOLD FOR DIC. FOLLO

IN PETS, CAN AN MYX! ANE THAT THE CON'I OF THE ORCAMATION

OF ANTICAS STANIE NE CONOMED POR CONULTATION ON TAY MATE;

THORE IS MOPINITE MADON TO SUYPORT THE VENEZUSLAN CLATH THAT

TEN TIAPONS CAN NOY COTA. IN APPROTIMATIRY TUNNE TON ON UNAPOES

INCLUDE MIGHT ANCONATIC RIFLES AND BUBICHINTS-GUNS XECHTIFIID AN

LONG THOSE THEFT IN CONA PRON BELGICN IN 1959 AND 1900. THRI

EIRE ALSO MORTALE MAZOOKAS, RECOILLES ELTIES, ANO ATTIC ON

BICEIT

IT TONG ENCE iS PROVeNED.

---

## Page 13

SSILO SECONCE

SECRET

C'IF DIR

BA00F

iD 619

COMMITTY LARANYLIYUNS ANI, 1IL ANTO PORCH dE NATIONAL ANIMATION.

TUS NACUE MAN YOUD ON I NOY ON A NACE IN MARCON ETATE, ACH

GO TOR MAR INE GURRILLA SPORT, THE VONSURN OUR

ABHURLA MAT THE VRASON DENN LAYS THE CURA BY BRA, 1978 18 107

COMPINTO, BOS CIRRE VISIT TIRACLE VERS ERIURTEOLY LORD TO TRAITORT

IRAION I BOLTH ANNALS DITUNS THE LATTER PART OF OCT.

VOR MARK TARA YARDE, NAPRO THE CASTRO PAGINE BAS TRIRD TO AVOID

MOTIONS TET VOCID TRAILY WINLICATE IT IN DIRECT SUPPORT OF LATER

WRICAN HUBTRY: 1S 1I18 LICKITION AXIN TO DREDISTIATY EITHNS

JUR ANU DIGAGE IP INUINGS WHICH CASTED ION GIVES TO HIS SUEVERSIVE

HIDEK. OR SIA KOLKATE NUT YIE VENTEOELAN SITUATION NOM IS BIPH

i: 169g

ITATINITE BY FRESIDENT COULART AND

' HE EYELIT THAT "SOCIAL DISASTEN." MAY

SICKET

Copy Pla

---

## Page 14

:2€1

36007

„ 8,.0 i. 1.4к

iE.:: *•S I RADER TREY BAVE ALSO RE-

LIM INTO :490T AIN THATS THAI STRAINS ARE INCREASING

• I, PORITA-NAL: DSMRIOS DE THE COMMINIST PARTY OF BOLIVIA

ME: TOO AN •ISS. "AI TO THOSE OF FEIPIN. LET ON 15 NOV IN

SA MAT TO ORIANION A MO!, "ANIHITAN FRIYNOSHIS SOUTHTY.

THE FONARIN O "TIS FOCIET: IN TAR FIRST PIELIC INTORTION

PEAT A PID.HINESS IN THIETS PININ THE FUR. IT SAS BUIN FOU

POLICY IT ANT ARUIT: ANO FIFIC; • DISMAYED PRO CHINESE BTHPATETES

20110. 65 AFEL

AL A RESILT TIT PASTI'S SCHEDELES

SOVISI FCL LEADERS ATTENDT NO EXPEL

T'EIR ACTIV:?: : 11.

• ..

s*,

---

## Page 15

14-00000

CLASSIFI: MESSAGE

1142

DEFERRED

$119.11°

8600T

CH: 101 3492501

DITTENCES XIULVED IN TUS XHO-SOVIET DISTORS. 10830758, 53

HIS AWKID IN OT FION FOR FOR MEN FOL

& 03004723 D00004 T INPERIATIONA MION OF STUBES

III, A CONTINE TIE: VAST IN MANITO SO MUTATION A SCHOOL

FOR THE TRAININ OF COCHINT INTEROITT GRADERE. THE SCHOOK HE-

POTEDLY WILL NE NICHIE IT SITURE SHAZIL OS CHILE.

STUDENY LIDELIT:: SO 1RAY TINT HITL HE BATTER ABLE TO COYATER TAK

GROWT! OF BOLING CHIOTISS CHI MOVESHTS IN TEE UNIVIRSITES, IDE

OPTICAL EMOTES.

S8+S:& "& is 1219E881?: TRAININO SCHOOLE IN

MEET CERERS: ARE SATIS ANSHIA LIE VERT TUS ADOCESEVOL, AND THAT

CAR CUSNUNIONS COULE NUL: DE SOTTIE THEIR ANTHONE.

TRAININE'

" GED SAAOOL VOILD BE FOK APIMOXINATRRY

BEC 56.-

DIRFACATIHS

1Esm":..

---

## Page 16

5E.I0

pete in agass

« 23: 19

3600>

TAkE: BARS: THIS. I NOAH. FOI ME SINSENTS RETURN TO THIE RE.

124:08 FI04!::1141% 10 60: 1P A MATIONAL CEMBA ME

MR SORTA HAS LIE APPAOTAL SO KI TO LAKHST POLLEICAL PARTIES,

THE DORSEETATANE ANY 49 "0E/A LITERA. TO POLD MATION P

YESTIONS, OR IS DES IN: VE INTAT OILIET FARTT HE BO

BOTTA TO CONE 10RR:35%

SO LILIE IN SALIN WAYS TISITIN SOTIST JOERALIST THO

OMINATING

.:.}

...

---

## Page 17

we die sort finit

: 1"

, far..."

1931:16°5

ROUTINE.

8600

•IN AIRT

WW 10 0 19 БА: N T0 ТЕ

MAGINE ON LANETTO ATT

So. WIE: MIT BI MU

.X. Bil

DONATE 10E TO PUNIS

MION 5 1160B

ACE 10 1

100. 540 A

THE CASHIEHE TO MIC PIANO

1A M0 99-4 17

• 5A84019

HI CHAIN AL TON 11N

302W WIN HOUSIN

NATAL CONSIGHTS FO

EXTE AID PONY. YOUR INCH OFT IN FORTIT

A PIZZAN ANNA STINO DIE A INSIN BLAMESHAN REPRETING

CRATIOTRI DAO LINK: IN "NIX "N MIDNN, ME PRECITE RATURE OF

LABOR SUNNI BY ¡ YEARN NE JANUITO NO COMERIÇAT, DRALS BY THE

HIS CORARATICN ADVITIURS WINKLI

SN'T DINARY AAN CITA

Пат диль tososn и pot

ANITNENTIDATING

Comy Ma.

---

## Page 18

NCE

derai in

"ermini!

SECKEY

malprea l

R00TNe

141

-isi

ParARED.

2I0 21.0

13 SIT

86007

AISTYTTION ALA C99 49R 1E21

FONA MOIN MA 1N 1 0 00

FINRALAS AP RIPLOGINA. FRANTE POTLD TOTALY! "" TIZ INFATIEN ON

CEPROTE SY SONTRYTI NO MIRLABI PACKINS CRATES OB TO LRBUE PALER

SITINA DOC

MAN BY

T CONTATO ANNO PONCIN

INUTI COMENTE CANTIONE, DECH NIE

A SUNTY CANO MONTANE A CANIV

ASSABBIZATION MARE IN MALATIN IN TES COUNTE UN PROBALE SOL

1108Y 0

BRECTION O CLAMINA DOCIIINE O ITO VILLAHSA OF TRE LAURLICAN

1/ASOEI DO MISTI DI iTA 3, 199,1EE POISTATE TOIS FILI I

+09416908 1454 74199na671

strut

AUTHINTICATINE

Copy No.

---

## Page 19

CLASSIMER MESSAGE

19494

::808:90071.8

1511+

13-4

ROUTING

4

6

DEFERRED

16611

IN/O

TO VILLARINE SOTA, IN ANTI

TO SOCOrT NE

8600)

I DO WEA

5 ADM

TIT IT AIT IT

STURe 0

N 59S 90

- 991

A SEVA

GECE TRAC

I AND YATYRES!!

1/18

N, ND TE NEITICAL

MELTING

TAIL WIRET TO COVKUNNIE'A NACINIUSHNS AS FOURS TO ACT. 11

D. HOURS: WANT A OUT PITH LADI VI

MURAIRS' LIENTAL PAUTY HAVE NOT YET REIONED TEN MILITARY DRCHIA

BATCH TOGLE SITARISA A CONITITUTIONAL COVERNINT IN 18

ERAS HIT

IN 19 NOYTEE. IDICATION ARE, HOVER, TRAT THE JAITY IN INCI

TO COOTRATE IT THE MILITARY IN CHITATE

THE KICTIONS, ARE PORTACONIT.

1.188

# +10489-88499

Cope 1a++1166688082656

AUTMENTIQATING

09F10 A0.

Copy ino.

---

## Page 20

188, 14004

86007

- PALS

SADRES ALTATASE IDENTO. A LIBRAL PAPTY LADER VIC UNSUCCESS-

FOLLT SODGET TIE PALIY'& PREVIDIIIAL IONINATION IN TAS UPEIG O

1983, IST PRIVATEN Gi 23 MUY MITS COLONIL NE CESARDE LETTE

ALLANO, THE MILITALY LUIR? OU STATE. AB A RABULT OF THIE CON-

VANIATION, ALVABADO PUXITO NAID EX HAS PREPANIO TO SOCSFY THE MECHRI

VITAL HORTE CONST ARLA ATPIATE SO HAVE DIMINHRD, LENN LEADUN

ASPARENTLY ALDO FAILLO i Y TARTO ATLUN TO PRUSSERR TE DINGNE

L'ANOTURE IDICAT MA" FOLITICAL TE CION MAY LATE

18 TrO

CI T I HÀ À

---

## Page 21

1:86911 49-38-9993

CLASSIELE MESSAGE

191

iM. BREAT:

ORT SIN ONE MILL ST

INE PRIORATAN CONTINIET YOUFE QNNANIHANIOE (USC)

B0098

1'03..3

RAN AST DI

HEY TA SUMIN CONNIEY FINT SPOTT

HITTUTER TO ANO IN CHILIAR VINAS FOR 1Y0

IN C BUNTE ASCAL NAI

9. He 101

WICH 28 BUT THAT MIME B4S DIAL DUN A CRUE.

MAY ME IN DION YOR A SITIN OF COMMUNIST

45T4 YARBLI

YENT FEINK LATIT ABERICAN COONIAIIS TO DISCURN TRE

ODNTYINNO "IK HIT SOTTAREN' IS OURN TO ACHINTE & TRINTS PROITION

ACHROFIND FOA FEIT HiM. 11

A NOR CHANNE UH BRASIA.

---

