# 104-10116-10266

## Page 1

104-10116-10266

SECRET

In March 1953 he misrepresented himself as a polygraph operator with the

"State Department Secret Police"

• This misrepresentation was made at a

time when the Department of State was not authorized to have a polygraph

machine and Congressional legislation was pending at the time regarding

such authorization.

As a result of this misrepresentation, Subject was

afforded another security interview In March 1953.

He explained that

his cover company sold equipment to foreign countries through the Mutual

Aid Program and supplied consultant services to the State Department but

Subject denied that he ever represented bimself as a State Department

polygraph operator. After the security interview Subject was also assessed

by an Agency psychologist (March 1953) and was found to be egotistical,

emotionally unstable, possessed of a need to build himself up in the

eyes of others and gave either exaggerated or completely erroneous

information as to his past positions. His intelligence quotient was found

o be comparatively low in relation to those of other Agency employees

n April 1953 termination of his employment was recommended

08

Subject[resigned 29 April 1953]"to accept a position in CalIfornia.

Washington climate is not agreeablé to his family."

In April 1964 Mr. J. Kirk BAREFOOT, Director of Security, McKesson

and Robbins, Skokie, Illinois, informed the Agency he had been a witness

to unauthorized disclosures of classified information made by a group in

a cocktail lounge in Omaha, Nebraska.

The individual making the disclosures

about ENDOMORPH activities

abroad under Agency sponsorship was identified

as Leonard HARRELSON®

Subject, who was then Director of Public Safety

for the City of Omaha, Nebraska, was one of the group and it was believed

that he was responsible for supplying the classified information to HARRELSON

about [ENDOMORPH activities.

02

Leonard HARRELSON is a private investigator specializing in hypnotism

and the use of the polygraph machine.

In 1964 be was employed by the Keeler

Polygraph Company in Chicago, Illinois. In 1954 HARRELSON was in partnership

vith Lloyd B. FURR in a private detective agency known as the American

Bureau of Investigation, Tower

is the polygraph operator who gave a lie detector test to Gordon NOVEL,

hostile witness subpoenaed by GARRISON. The test received newspaper publicity

as being given at "McLean, Va." In March 1967. (Summary on FURR attached).

HARRELSON 1c believed to be a person of poor morals. He was given

a medical discharge from the Army as a psychoneurotic in 1949 and had been

court-martialed twice for impersonating non-commissioned officers of a

runk higher them li: posicied.

In his bustnoss partnership with FURR,

HARRELSON would mistepresent himself ac boing with the FbI by covering th

word "American" when presenting his credentials and Just showing "Bureuu

of Investigation".

Incidentally, the informant, J. Kirk BAREFOOT mentioned above, was

disapproved for Agency employment in 1951 because of falsification of his PHS,

and questionable maturity, judgment, discretion and honesty.

SEGRET

R

---

## Page 2

SECRET

14 August 1968

SUBJECT: GUGAS, Chris

Subject is Identified as a California investigator who administered

a polygraph test to Edgar Eugene BRADLEY who has been charged with conspiracy

by GARRISON.

Subject was borhi12 August 1921 at Omaha, Nebraska. He is 8 former

Agency employee who FOD) 1n

October 1949 as a GS-9 Intelligence Officer.

Subject resigned his staff status, in February 1951 and became a staff

(8 agent] with Project. ENDOMORPH In

From March 1951 until July 1952.

(Els wife Anne Claudia GUGAS nee SETARO was granted a covert security clearance

1n February 1952 for use in a clerical capacity in the Middle East.)

In his assignment with Project ENDOMORPH in

Subject was a

police

In one incident; he made recomendations of police reorganizations to be

made by province governors 1n

'whereas, in

Department is a national organization and not

subject to the dictates of

the province governors. This caused much 1ll will and friction with the

police.

Subject professed to be an expert in his knowledge of the polygraph

machine and claimed he had two years? experience with the Los Angeles

Police Department where he received below average grades.

Ill October 1952 he approached an Agency employee regarding a new

type of technical equipment and this conversation led to the dirclosure

by Subject. that he was employed by the Agency an a covert capacity; that

he was teaching lie detection techniques to foreign police departments

without being authorized or competent to do so.

Subject was briefed in

December 1952 with stress placed on the importance of living up to his

security responsibilities and exercising utmost precaution in protecting

the covert interests of the Agency.

In spite of the strong warnings given him in this interview, Subject

again became involved in an

incident of official embarrassment to the Agency

GROOP 1

SECRET

Exciuded from autematic

#smagrading and

BR

1040.011

---

