# 104-10290-10128

## Page 1

104-10290-10128

Co, 8.

gie 5040

Mrs168 1189

CONF:

INTO :

TO

9868822

10:

DEFERAEO."

18 % :

88863

RYBAT

PEF MEX, 7353%

!.

!" ADDITION TO REIERENCE REPORT, FBIS REPORT OF II DECEASE

SAYS TELLO, IN INTERVIEW WITH MOVEDADES, CRITICIZED DAS CLATHINE NO IN

STATE OF CHISIS AND THAT CURS'S EXCLUSION FROM CAS I8 VICLATIONISSL

CHATTER. THESE BEPORTS SUGGEST TELLO DELIB RATELY ATTEMPTING PRE-

ESTABLISH MEXICAN POLICY WITH. REGARD CENAURS ACTION AGAINSI: CURA. I

VIEY IMPOSTANCE MEXICAN POSICION THIS RESPECT; TRYCE RETONIO MARIE, CY

CONSIDERABLE CONCERN HERE AND IT FELT NECESSARY TAKE APPOS

COUNTER TRILO TACTICS IN WAY THAT WIlL BASUS IN M

CAT PL

STADICER PAS

ENADQUATTES HAS CONVINCIN: Ia

20200S, FRONT KAR

STACOUSCE

AS A AS. OUR DIN TBICH, SLOBS CONCLUSIVELY KIT AS DISCOU

FERVEN ME DISTINCTLY CUBAN:

ANUMER OF NEAPONS CAN DE RESED

AS ESPECLALLY DEBIGNED FOR CUBAN ARMY... ARNS DISCOVERED T'E

OP A TYPE AND IN SUYFICIENT NUNCERS TO SUPPORT PLAN FOR TANS-OVER OF

CARITAL CITY OF CARACAS, THEIR APPEARANCE IN VENEZULA TIES IN SPICITI

CALLI WITH KNOTN FALS PLANS WITH REGARD TO LOCATION AND TIMING.

LATTIS SUTPURTED EY DOCUMEN ATY EVIDENCE TAKEN FRON CAPTURAL FALN UNMARAS

AHINEXPICATIRO

# 001040

RECB8TПYBAT

# ++46183149-09400

#70050OR / SIR MAN M SUNG ONCE IS PRONOURD,

---

## Page 2

TO INDEXY

• CI PLE IN CS THA NOTE

DIRECTOR

PAGE 18

ROUTINE

INFO

SOT. TET SURFACED 5Y VERSUELAN S

TER PEPARATION FOR VISUAL FAR

3. EAR

ATTENTION O LINES IN MISS OWE

IS VEMEZUELAN TRE

BIS ACTIVITIES.

818 MIG

NATIC SOND E ANTIBUTED FO

THAT KI POSET.

ADVISE IF YOU SEE COMPLICATIONS 2188 63

3300 CD 291

SUGGEST OTHER ACTIONS WICH MICET EE D

TO AYE

5. DAPT OF THIS MESSAGE BAS SHOT S

Bal 1A.

IND OF: LESSAGE

1o, tie becan positica or li comeet

it's.

AC.0-2E 80 98.

Cuba by 141, 0.15 is "90t.

Pallad

0046/5171

join or it, 8

#2O0K 10N2C

in 2 2Une ONE

---

