# 104-10161-10040

## Page 1

104-10161-1040

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

RUC

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

MIAMI

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO.

224 428

PICO-Ramon, Reinaldo

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

19 November 1969

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

Headquarters

REPORT MADE BY

03

S.A.

CHARACTER OF CASE

DA ID/2/ D

DATE

25 November 1969

APPROVED:

CHARIES W. KANE

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE 26. 4.60

DEC E

the wat

DISTRIBUTION:

HDQS -Orig

HDQS -1

MF 0-1

FO60 646 USE PREVIOUS

COrTIONS.

(43)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

....

FILE NO.

224 428

DATE 25 November 1969

SYNOPSIS

At Miami, Florida:

Immigration and Naturalization Service files reviewed

in name of Reinaldo PICO Ramon. He initially entered

. States in December 1960, was later readmitted

as Permanent Legal Resident on 20 May 1964.

noted that an individual having same name as SUBJECT is

mentioned in files of Federal Bureau of Investigation

and the Central Intelligence Agency. Pertinent biographic

data found in I & NS file is set forth herein.

file reviewed in name of former spouse with negative

However, this source contained record of one

Alicia LUGO Gonzalez, who first entered the U.S. in March

1960.

No derogatory information on file regarding

SUBJECT or this individual.

REPORT NO. -

7. 64 1125 PERMS

OESOLETE.

120)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

224 428

GENERAL

At Miami, Florida:

On 19 November 1969 records of Immigration and Naturalization

were reviewed in the name of Reinaldo

individual having the same name, born at Regla, Havana, Cuba, on 21

July 1923. He was initially admitted to the United States at New

Orleans, Louisiana, on 28 December 1960, and was subsequently

readmitted at Miami, Florida as a Permanent Legal Resident, on 20 May

1964.

In 1964 he listed his occupation as a clerk, and gave his

address as 1645 S.W. 12th Street, Miami, Florida. He had been residing

in Venezuela prior to readmission.

This individual claimed to be the son of Regino PICO, and listed

his mother as Maria de la Paz RAMON.

He listed his spouse as Carmen

Marcela PINO de PICO, and advised that he had two children, Reinaldo

and Maria.

Additional addresses were given as 541 S.W. Ith Street,

Miami, Florida, in 1963, 1067 S.W. 8th Street, Miami, Florida, from

1961 to 1962, and 2267 S.W. 16th Street, Miami, Florida, fram

1960 to

1961.

the following Central Intelligence Agency reports:

cs DB-3/659, 252 atd 30 January 1964

TDCS DB-3/657, 731 ata 5 November 1963

IDCS 38.3 651, 915 &t 25 November 1963

4 November 1963

The most recent information on file was a re-entry permit dated

which indicated that this individual was to travel to

Guatemala, Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, and Costa Rico, to

attend a seminar for trade union education. He claimed to be employed

as an interpreter for FORDC, 2621 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Floriaa.

At that time he gave his address as 530 S.W. 10th Street, Miami, Florida.

-1-

---

## Page 4

11-00000

224 428

No additional pertinent information was contained in PICO

Ramon's file, and nothing of a derogatory nature was noted.

On 19 November 1969 records of I & NS were reviewed in the name

Of SUBJECT's former spouse with negative results. However, this source

contained a record of one Alicia LUGO-Gonzalez, who was noted to have.

been born at Havana, Cuba, on 16 December 1937. This person first

entered the United States at Miami, Florida, on 18 March 1960, as a

visitor. Her occupation was that of a dancer, and she listed employment

at the Biltmore Terrace Hotel.

Her address was 1740 N.W. 50th Street,

Miami, Florida. It was noted that her status was subsequently adjusted

to that of a Permanent Legal Resident effective 19 June 1968.

time she claimed to be single, and residing at 1173 N.W. 29th Street,

Miami, Florida. She listed employment with Food Fair, as a head cashier.

She furnished a prior address from 1965 to 1968 at 530 S.W. 10th Street,

Miami, Florida.

Her file contained nothing of a derogatory nature.

IHF /pab

-2-

---

