# 104-10109-10410

## Page 1

104-10109-104107

GESLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ISE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO" DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional) •

FROM, - LiNK/mo/Ege;

WH/C/COPS

TO: (Offieur designation, room number, and

building)

1.

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

DATE

OFFICER"

INITIAL

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to shem from whos

to whom.

Drew a line across column after ooch comment!

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Director of Security

ATTN: Alien Affairs Staff

3.

BARKER -

#28/333 requeste

10. NOV 1965

142,

ga

00

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORMA

3-62

610 USE PRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WH/C 65-499

9 November 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

ATTENTION

: Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT

: Admission to the U.S. for Two Aunts

of Bernard L. Barker's Wife

1. Bernard L. Barker, a Cuban-American refugee in

Miami (and former Captain in the USAF) has been actively

cooperating with this agency since 1959 in Havana and

Miami.

He has shown his loyalty to the U.S. Government

and his work for this agency has been very satisfactory.

It has now been learned that two aunts of

subject's wife arrived in Mexico from Cuba on 22 September

1965. On 28 September 1965 they applied for visas to the

Applicants are:

Margarita LAMAR Laine; DPOB 20 May

1907, Havana, Cuba; PP 51527 (confined to a wheelchair

since 1933) and her

sister Maria Luisa LAMAR Laine; DPOB

21 July 1900, Havana, Cuba; PP 44495.

3. Headquarters

and Miami Station traces on appli-

cants are negative as

are Miami FBI traces.

4. It is requested that Alien Affairs Staff arrange

with Immigration and Naturalization Service for the

expediting of these applicants into the U.s.

WH/C/COPS

---

