# 104-10172-10287

## Page 1

1104-10172-10287

RETURNTO CIA B

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chief of Station

SEGRET

F80H

CaLefa Me..

-- 02

23257a 2937

201-11018.

21 Supr 59

MAGGIO FOO MOLIANI

NO ADERING HOURD

ANCHRING CAN SE NUCCIO

BE QUALIED HQ. DEIA ONLI

Seo Mion

02

lo rendenterso comozente hore riro: cinaldaraule thoucht do the

coutalle/? Un AraF/5 contacte, and re shall attent to outline bolo

the rint of the sganu of apiuion derived thereirou.

02g sareine sirett lnes flrat, le le ballered that Erarit/s refermod

to as (V: horcattor) has dielayed natunto to 1o0 eral a derrer, both poi

libically and esotionalls, to be seraitial so berono ano farther involtad la

Inla Laloon, Mio, locether vich hor apround aversion to oovert antiritto

coald nale for prarless in runnda her an a renetration double arente Our

reasonine do an follo.

Jo The rory faet int iS, a s03138 /areni, and OOiS, a knoun RISali,

ars la contacs ulth ench other, has laplscasiona wich varrant close scrutiny.

hilo 18 my be a ble top garla, to ponder the direction Xi'8l8 Interest coul

no, (1e JL8 Milng W15 for recrultont, or la he falang for her, geno

Inoly?) the fallaidig comente are offeret in the knouledge that they are, by

montea, an apeal lo te intollect, laneare lo-son, and a 11t6le leiron

lottrated traguah the "11ltet buerand" rotine.

etos Pertane Cortille han alrrady sattifled timelf on this point, bur lond

cartara vould apareclate baing aenurer of tho formatale atatue and rollabilley.

Lo 00L03 hannade provocative enarts to bott D/5 and Cestillo, Inalarine

mone pertairing to the Nerostille elationshin la trip cot ha smon, tb

11kellhood that 0 I7'g contars. u1th Vi. had cono to tse attention of the ros.

Imbany alta resultant inquirien Istiratad by Coalille, and to the poaalb1l18y

O Lehat f5 was reprebire on har contart vith oniri to the los. intensi.

doubtedy the thonert han occured to. thell

Tthat 0 1'9 my voll Bave 14-1

Cortille talbed au an ii offierr mecialistra, 1n 96 ('Notane operationi.

you vill recall, in a cosple of Instances pri a Mintod to is that ho musertod U2

that seneono alno vas parine for her e rlp to tho las vuer te asked her to who

ald she baro to scrouat for her erjeniltire.

hope to pala tron there conticts, assurim ihat ho la meleious of both coitulle

melona, nhat their backerounda are and pertiapy hou they are soostod (a.los

shother chey are ardente of soviet affaire, os of tre innatan languaro, elc.),

what che backgrounda aro of la Als dirlone sando the operations, uná relatod

mttore, Il natt bo deustrd cha: 3 '": sinell la a escelallat la Ci oseratione

acainst the Us, alneo he, se fi feulden mould hare broader ressonalbilition.

doverer, ho night voll to interental ln "ingring nin hano la" and of malneaining

vono personal controte ulth durleans in arier so col 110 on Mroland l

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SICKLI

22007793 2437

to cort!:in contart lo soronne elre, anch as "Liter "alrarerten

"it,

In this senorto C. 111le0

-'..

i ?.

• 1:. 29%'

"' seem to so saintalate the majority or

•Lie to airelalice 1: 4erfens 649rae15, 91-09 heras lhe one tho tool

1951 :.

is had event consecerable sise in lie U-itas

so is le desiraie eu der solder de solists la relevant or nol, test no

Ideales concoratra a la coco: 10

18 thia linchoos the sagect 118

Resliest in 'prat allege! Cat one pit of every lore Ascrican visitors to the

¡ore to hare the passact

I:: toss code tuo too emn: Inarian.courtres

almal caseocal cipressle the sure that. 19

to

Lat ene aboutin": My lo maxe too mue.

. of

siese col-elienses, but 1t 10 vorth

gannels, turned ever the earlact

dEA 85e ALS affler lo en underline de the bare line that 0 " 1a lacroucing

coobille so: all no no, ln fort, carsy on le contacts, la plas to polo: enti

sade estantdeace to 19e

Mr sues enal the lateer bos esotied and la la the procese of aurerein, and

mlemtin 1r0?10 any bi thut tra 1a tryin to imolre 15 in a rosentle a Di

lattorando In uniel potional control could he evereioes, miner lt se quite

11boly dent Alda trost Into! Ileence perrator Illus her "er log iind". It would

Uno pun that the couloto bora a contianing intoiest in contille an assaint

ant they un aware of at least sone of the rostlile contacts, try may haw

11 on peerallin 104016 informilian on cos lille sex other sterlean tarrote.

SLi" certalalr amearg to be erylar 80 col y

on the "hork", be sl for hereall

I contillo saye he has never bees ason wity Wi and chat all consort site

bor bas bees bol: in bie apartent or car.

Herever ll areare quito roamble

Chat their netiara hare been observal, 1l lue 315 had en trallantion to do 00s

and 1l' my mi! Do chal dI'! la avaro of the contact. It la recuested Chat

Cootillo advisa lendremetera, for record rarposes, an 8a! he neare de contret

Elonod by dia and M:12 solonhone, seetire pians for a vertain iar of esch vect

en alternate daya, etca ilso, dons she eue unaccos anded to bio mart.ent stor

does he noes ter at a designated place, what de the sial sour (dayllahtor curt),

durallon es vialts 11 mali'; 19 1a bla cer, utaro so they ment, do they dive

around, mere dies be drop her off? All or s'1s conid do paratiled by the rovlota

11 they sm so Inalineco

do IS ous Bplcion 1a correct that iCLy has af: and Coolsllotited, stan e

0208 penados 11 well be uppropriato to discourase ay farther cortues iotrem

in nicht jent contine to finh around for orcasional 1lom or

meralloml lotelligeno, and ve see bottine to be rained iron the contart. 1/5 07

detl baro o nonch of a euma of sinaton to allou boronli to be « ed on suo a

carnation fron which rita vould durive son tosaflt than me o ve.. Il sol

at to dotrel, so von's men 15'e balo, mi Dela probably too varp and s

Doe untutand for do to be earriner la a conti-malion of this, almilonshipo

1l ala palme, de la surgented thas Costille higell be euroral la bla rolntion:

1ms 0:10 no more lodell on all mad contro.

02

FILISHIT?

centributions

2

0958 + 81183899799

= 5 8.90

SECRET

17/BR

---

