# 104-10183-10273

## Page 1

104-10183-10273

SFCRET

SO FORLIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

Policy Guidance for Cuban Intel-

SUBJECT

ligence Representatives in Mexico, DATE DISTR.

Contral America, and the Caribbean

Issued by the MA Department (IntelNO. PAGES

ligence) of the Gencral Directo-

of Intelligence (Direccion

General de Inteligencia - DGD

10 July 1961

5

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO. June 1964

FIELD. REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRACINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL Of CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelli-

gence Service until April 1964. Appraisal of Content:

Documentary.

Headguarters Comment.

The following is a translation of

locument which source provided this Agency and concerns th

General Directorate of Intelligence's (Direccion General de

Inteligencia - DGl! MA Department policy guidance for Its

intelligence representatives in Mexico, Central America,

and the Caribbean.

The MA Department no longer exists, as

such, having been divided into two departments: Illegal

Department

illegal? ard the Nacioral Liberation Department

(Liberacion Nacional - LN).

COUNTRY: SECTION M

SECTION M-A OLTLINE

ESSENTIALS:

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION

2. NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEMENT

3. TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATIONS BASES

1. COMMUNIST PARILES

5. ARMED FORCES

6. MEXICAN RELATIONS WITH CUBA

7. REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS AND CIA

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STATE

I DIA

TARAY

REP CINCLANT

¡Nore, Frolid diaritution Indicared by - =')

At*

CINCSO E lasS

son berets

FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT INFOrMATION REPORT

jLx-1524

INO PROJECT

CUBIG 11

CT/IS

TOTAL IE 3.

CI E1, RIDAS

SI, ERI. DI

OH 11(371,

SEX INI. EE 8 IGN 1' (81. 18. 121191

PORN TO 1

+099991T1O1 more

11.÷4665%

---

## Page 2

14-00000

So...

• 1a

11932

WH. COPS

• WH/PO/A

WHI/ PO/B

WH/ 1

WIl/2

WHI/ 3

WH/ 4

WH/5

WH/G

WI!/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WI!/SA/R

WH/SA/ Int

WH/SA/CI

cI Staff

CI Liaison

CI/R$- 4

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

FE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/H

FE/P

EF./C

EE/IIS

FE/PHL/I

FE/.JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/UNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

1

5

20

N$ :AA 185

SE. AA: AP

NE. AA.'F

NE, 5/P

NE/6/081

NE/R

NE. CI

WF:1

HE /2

WE/3:

WE/S

WE/EC

WE/R

4

Fi-id Dissem

WH/SA/WAVE 5

good Е pod prad prosed prest

1

S-F-l'-R-k-T

SO FOREIGS

DISSEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1O. FORN DiSSEM

- 2 -

8.. SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA MOVEMENT

9.

INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE

10.

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

11. COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

IMPORTANT:

12. CATHOLIC CHURCH

13. ECUMENICAL COUNCIL REPERCUSSIONS

14. ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS

15. FOREIGN POLICY

16. OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

NECESSARY:

IT. MINREX OPERATION AND DIPLONATIC CORPS

18. PRESS

19. PRENSA LATINA ("LATIN PRESS")

20. LABOR MOVEMENT

21. ECONOMY

SECTION M-A

ANALYSIS ABOUT THE POLITICAL INFORMATION WORK:

BACKGROUND:

:

ifferent characteristics:

C) THE CARIBBEAN.

An analysis of each follows.

a) MEXICO

place therl is re information about NEXte and events taking

Concretely we can point out

that we do not receive

really aar information about the internal

political situation of Mexico.

plan, since the Center

the political forces

level, it appears, to obtain this type of information.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSES

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SO FORS DISSEM

- 3 -

With regard

to the relations with Mexico or the official

policy of the

country, No can point out that although the in-

formation received is

larger in volume, this sork is not ex-

ploiting the information facilities.

Besides. in the first as well as the second case.

the

sources

available to the Center are not known in the Informa-

tion Service.

We can deduce the information capabilities by

analyzing circles or individuals from

whom the information is

obtained.

However,

we don't know what the relations are be-

tween the Center

and these informants, therefore we cannot

guide the infornation collection effort:

b) CENTRAL AMERICA

The information with regard to this region is still

worse than in respect to MEXICO. As far as political in-

formation is concerned, we note

the absence of sources

of information and of concrete information about current

matters.

Information about the political life of these countries

is almost nil, especially with regard to current matters.

In-,

formation about political matters is frequently received from

this

region, but almost always they refer to reports from a

specific

source about his own party or about disagreements,

very generalized, with cther leftist forces.

Lately. for the last three or four months (actually

since early September), a decrease in the total volume of

formation received has been observed. especially with regard

to intelligence information about the national liberation

movement in Central America.

With regard to other matters

(political life, relations

with Cuba,

solidarity, etc.) the

fact is that we have reccived information, although very

c) THE CARIBBEAN

With respect to Santo Domingo and Haiti, we can say

that the job in these two countries is nil, as far as the

collection of information is concerned.

We have only received from

Haiti, since the month of

May. two or three information, reports of limited value and

they were received chrough M-N.

With

regard to Santo Domingo the situation is very

similar.

Although

some intornation reports have been 'e-

ceived, they come from public (overt) sources (newspapers

from progressive

pings. etc.) and occasionaily

organizations, maniffital reports about

newspaper clip

current events

and the way of struggle in the country,

drafted by a member of a progressive organization.

SECRET

SO FORY DISSEY

---

## Page 5

SECAET

NO FORN DISSEN

= 4=

NEEDS:

a) MEXICO

Given the importance of the situation in Mexico,

Cuba, basically because it is an important way of contact with

Latin America, it is NECESSARY to reinforce our job as far as

its RELATIONS. WITH CUBA is concerned.

This means that we are :

interested and need to intensify our work with the official

organizations from Mexico (Presidency,

MINREX, Congress,

having something to do with Cuban relations, so as to have

the elements of judgment and information about the future of

these relations and above all of the North American plans and

MEXICO with regard to their relations with Cuba

and the Mexican position to that respect.

Similarly, we are interested in second place in knowing

about the situation among the political forces in MEXICO,

especially with regard to leftist forces and their role and

importançe individually.

And lastly, it is necessary, in our opinion, to develop

methodical task, according to the guidelines

and objectives of the plan, with the available sources of in-

formation from the Section or the Center in Mexico so as to

use them more rationally.

IT SHOULD BE POINTED OUT THAT IN

THIS SECTION,

AS WELL AS IN M-S, A TENDENCY TO OBTAIN INFORMA-

TION FROM SOURCES IN CUBA IS NOTED.

b) CENTRAL AMERICA

In this region it

is necessary to emphasize the obtain-

of information about

in Cuba,

cially with regard to possibilities of collective action

against Cuba.

On the other hand, work should be strengthened with

regard to the situation and plans of the national liberation

movement in the region and in each country.

An effort should

be made to get to know,

completely, what the role and the

position of every leftist force is, since there are countries,

like Nicaragua, where it is not known, due to lack of informa-

tion, what role each force is playing and which are their

with us.

We consider that we must establish con

tacts to work constantly and periodically with each of the

leftist forces in these countries. Only this way we will be

able to overcome the deficiency.

situation in these countries is very serious. from

the standpoint of

the information work.

As we have said, we

no information

about them.

He consider that the first

matter to

solve is to know the sources from which we can

obtain information

and at the same time establish contact

with all the friendly forces in order to obtain information.

SECRET

NO FORS DISSEN:

---

## Page 6

SICKET

SO FORN

DISSPM

- 5=

ANALYSIS ABOUT INFORNATION ON ENENY ACTIVITIES WORK:

BACKGROL ND:

About the information work with countries in the N-d

Section with regard to

information

about counter-revolutionary-

type andaggression plans we can point out, in general, its

principal successes and deficiencies.

Through previous experience and the analysis of informa

tion received from

the countries of this Section concerning

counter-revolutionary activities, it was confirmed once more

that this

the zone preferred by Imperialism for locating

training camps for counter-revolutionary elements, getting

to the point where this assumes serious characteristics in

certain places or specific zones. such as the case of the

Peten zone in Guatemala and Puerto Cabezas and the Maiz Is-

lands in Nicaragua.

From information about this type of activity we can

point out that some was

incomplete and fragmentary, observing

in many cases the absolute lack of exploitation of a source;

this fact meant from the standpoint of our work serious dif-

ficulties. since

this limited considerably our possibilities

of indirect confirmation,

that is,

through other different

sources, as well as a series of derivative difficulties such

lack of continuity in the information, lack of con

firmation,

lack of contact and guidance as to the source

objectives, etc.

Analyzing all these previous phenomena

out a definite guideline with regard to our work for this

Section during the forthcoming year, this guideline would

cover the following aspects that will be basic from the

standpoint of aggression plans.

Location of training camps for Cuban mercenaries,

conclusion

as to

the type of training they get and their

number, as

well as their resources.

2. Detection of enemy aggression plans through the

Armed Forces

of Central American

countries and through the so-much mentioned collective action,

or something similar.

Location of uperations bases for pirate launches and

counter-revolutionary groups that will upcrate from nearby

countries.

This is directly related with the plans for

penetrating the enemy.

Penetrate and have full information about enemy's anti-

guerrilla plans and its development.

These would be the tasks

to be developed

during the year, accordingly, and folloring

the general cuidolines and objectives of the current work.

SECRET

SO FORS DISSEN

---

