# 104-10169-10071

## Page 1

104-10169-10071

SIC&ET

20 soptember 1885

20016 0. 4622100 55

m1l1e d.

cm. face Prod.

OUCES MORES! IN TOPOTRE AUROS I ANd SO ANTINO ANd 1I

Dopt eber 10M.

Croup 1!

Lueleded fue.

Iqu.

00M

COOKIES SOR)

1(fo CINCSO)

BICRIT

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprosuga

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Cuba

Faded Castro Ra

SO Boptember 1006

dily to Boptember 1000

Andted Stato

WE TOO!

•Cuban miero v1th mollet contaoto da tho Movlatest

Involnelenario del Puoble (URP, Bevolutionary Movemet os el

PRODIO)• NO ANO DOON AN ACCUrATO TOPOrCOS ON CLIN OSCANNION

and on comoral entero polleseal develop uta sione about no

1005.

Hold Comments

Tare tve been a

morion of allomed plots to

eno Deto Fidel Cautro lus, Dlanned by vardon OnleTe I

- Thin mort provides additiom

Information on the plot reported in CUUB 913/0105465 dated

10 August 1088, from the same soure®.

The people involved

aro Jose Prince,

"11t0" Pelued, and Antonto Vectan Blanch,

0l! Cuban enteres la Mianly an unnamed captalu In Zho Cuban

Rebel Army who had arrived in Minat Iron Cube about nurJune!

and one person ia Caba.

Prince planned to solicit monoy sa

Carson, Venuela, to finance the operation.

when bu

encountored diffioultion in sotting perminaton to rementer the

Unitod States, he planned to send another person. to Carmen to

eol101t money.

Jose Prince ind mito" Polnoz, lecders of an alleged plot te

13,000 (0.B.) 0f the $8,000 which In needed for toe operat10t•

on & September they said that their plans have been

delayed

They unid that a commolcation use received from Cuha requesting

the dolay because "conditions were not sight at the moment. "

I le not known when or hoy the message was received from Cuba.

Also, the men said that the estimted coot of the misston has

Iloon and they still need $3, 000.

They appeared confident that

they coule saise the money, and that the misston vould be a

mucoens but vore concorned with the effect that the delay

night have on people who had contributed money and were empoet-

Ing the summaination posa.

CONPIDENTIAT

CONTHOLLED DISTEN

Esctuded bot atroll:

883.8W88 0.0

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ET: 1506

mIl about 10 dias.

motel bon fell of polissa cynasde unles he noo rocosted tr

Poles mid fint the posmo

ONIDENTIA

CONTROLLED DIBBE

---

