# 104-10183-10417

## Page 1

104-10183-10417

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

80

INFO

FRON

Chiele it:

1, bad,

ATs CARNA

coo, Cornisure cos..

15-20

715-9

SUBACT

ACTION REQUIRED 'AL ERENCES

SAUSAGATHA

SECRET BELIZED

15-₴

VLAD

PBOCISSING ACTION

MARIO TOA MORE

NO MOONINE REQUIRE

ONLY QUALITILD DESE

Eve saragripa s

At B

20 ancust lues moting Analpid won anted ibout

• Earle of pallian (li in ali) o, no is 1ol4, are ar bave

In Accordano with a dier unton

elven no farther Intonintion and nothias about the fifteen o

oncept thelr asael.

b.

Subject lad seari ANhIP/l and others mention

AuLA34/s, mon Gubjost Even But noy personally.

know of bin only that se uno bees 10 Porla a sunter al

Elmen unc that he us maid to bo stupid.

...

throuch bus AnalP/2 mt Allistl.

of colasiny and perhapa confuse loyalties.

when AKAsil! vas so crank and 111 that he ena bacise for

the tataroon do vonte, be hopt ahouting curses'at the

critical of Autul.

Eat sa sood &s sayons dime la

governsent.

AX:MIP/3 bolleven that diLASH/l 1a

motionally and pay-huloshally nined up nad does not

where he atsaos.

d. AHOUID/3 AnOrS ThY AFAI8/L aNG AMASSI ot.

(1a d1d not atsto too mason unc ma hot taked. )

Ho knew.

not throug being pregent s8 Aby DorElAt.

when those

MUTTU, 11 AS HID/2 «boned to to present, be loft tor

roon. voluntarily bai of the outer.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MOSER

22(0124701343

TESENS ZEE

DATE

24 AUYUNALOGS

HES FILE NUMBER

3Ü1-726179

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF .

11441

DISPATCH

2z

(6813711543

RERPUlDE AnPONSaCOT AAtORIONCAAElLLO CArFery (2013409341

ANHLPia ME1E Muro toat ho la nos prrecatly cefoitable eoe 1n

rleerly pmigrim.

I +R6.cl40T h9to, 10 1a DOt BaDpy 1n k1s

job, cumpliins tunt. ho vas sot it out to vork : ontantly and

musg prasurt,

Ena

wield protor a nuselar met la arotern

sarepo.

•1Ro on Dolp fron Lubjet brrIAn lOCCIAM (AHILO

hiis jose to

Bealesre,

egean, for suet or a1l

ol tpo mnls c1

anjunt.

CAT IeESS

sutgust sotnin toat be 19

taere.)

mn instra tea to lot

un knuw slenuver ne ln privy lo

vacation pinm of Chlkfio, o iayone cime slallarly placou,

vell: cnoush 1n

sovenio anl nith tit sccoi prortre toat ho i

not tamoll lavolved

dn the irrenyomcnta(lanonts so cait.. 18d r

pltra ssio reasabie,

there uill not be a Ganser ol blon

ba. i).

he vos reparted carller, dt hin loen müg sontin uine

CARNILLO han Offerec subjet I

jerolrf.

and lhune transar tian

mmy aave cone to a closi.

CAKIILLO dlu inke & rereDt itteapt

to pedl a pasatias to AlllP/2.

$.

Bu Cubrs penos, AillPla has mede ruprated, ulae real

aogulnice, allecias

thit s vsnts to ucud noey to his 11fe

mutbur, ubo in ojint of :anor.

to : 108

Choin.

io e Baa thoe si 1o jeooible

C2 40335,

20

I1'st cuelé be vondo le bandb can'8. Ol

Opy 1Đ6S) 60N10 00.1%.

And.

m P/2 tuntinieg to tapreel crave

tORtEFE about

AICIIP/l'u srUsl Miatlonaaip

Hen MaN & of OIHA -1808

16 Lacenber 1004

Eunjoit a,s that A/1 1a mo lasoturtos that

ho nor sante a ulrurid in order to varry lusd.

1/3 crpoata

tht Ih 1a & some

of leoso u0r!)

nho van notoriosn ou osch

even belefk: sha

No StreanEs B0at AlI tolla her

"TeryßblDE:

"Halem, Alles, Alles!"

Б.

FInPIly, 5UD3ELE 681G

that Intoraatlon abvut 6/) volva

tn 23 1841

PrUVIOUnlY JURDEL t0 BUT6S COdlY. In SiatIY LetUROS t=

opce liy

nunt inlarratiun,

aitbough lt la prountle that it 1s thr

InToFOtIn EbUTt

muy i) bau besn

lEdRaN hAIX SOMCMTE tO AINUIDII

mevarel matas diu.

Àg *

rreult, All nouls hare bées put 10 a

DOBATION tO SUTUIBO tEDt 4/2 hAB a TOlEtIONALID MICA LOBARA, a

Isrt wnich

ATT MRkCD CYOTY "CfOrE tO 1ONrAL frUSS All and

ETerymo cioa, IoclecLDE 1/3'0 MI6.

212 naen thot ds hug

mnpped to ulvert any A/ì suspicions

aad sunotn sny ratflee

festhera.

Hsvever, lecnuec A/l 10 hle (Prand and buataoen

partser, end borons ai? 1s kesuly ainso of the Inportams ot

Beeurisy?

ho saxed that 50lC5 suaraatee lant thero «il: be no

IuTtINr lIals, t2s8 SUICà Acept 1/2 lato la onlta-ne, or

tast puict rrooralze tot ds, lcling muh sucrontees, camot

LUrGI NA

SITy 80Fі

intcraatico wulcn nght sot ala Isto troubie.

Marsartera conmats ato rgtentee.

....

FAITaR L. BukCt

Latriuelys:

KraRü f8r 015-20

715-2

53a

USE PREVIOUS COITION.

ELISSIFICATION

DEStiK :"

CONTINURO

PAGENO.

.02

7ipa

---

