# 104-10163-10075

## Page 1

104-10163-10075

DA! E

003

26 AUG 60

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM • HAVAMA

ACTION:

INFE •

WH 7

COP, ADOP/A, S/C 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

CLASSIFIED MESSAGF

SECRET

& Fline istart in

io ry kroed Valve. lastro.

tre intran

.. 711-257:62

POUTINO

TO

(PRIORITY) MASH

INfO

DIR

AUG 27 0300Z 60

ROUTINE

IN 44045

CITE

HAVA 5855

RE MASH 0433 (IN 38129)*

1. AWAITING AUTHORIZATION HOS RE ESTHER EUGENIA CONZALEZ Y DIAZ.

2. NICATTER A PEDRO FERMANOEI) DEPARTED HAVA FOR MISH 19 AUG. STATION

CONTACT NON AMCLATTER 3 WHO REQUIRED ADDRESSES OF ALEJANDRO RAMONO AD BROTHER.

AHCLATTER A WAS ASKED BY STATION TO OBTAIN ADDRESS AND BIO DATA EARLY BUT LEFT

PRIOR TO PASSINE INFO TO STATION.

30 NEW TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS THUS FAR MOT LEFECTING SUCH REQUESTS MADE

REF. IT APPEARS THAT OLD EXIT PEPMITS WILLIBE VALID FOR HE DEPARTURE FOR

ONE TEAR FROM 22 AUG UNLESS NEW REGULATIONS INVALIDATE OLD EXIT PERMITS.

OLD PERHITS ACH BEING RETAINED AT: POINT OF EMBARKATION.

%. CLAUSELL HILL, BE ISSUED VISA 31 AUG. HAVA WOULD APPRECIATE MISH WARM.

AHCLATTER 1 NOT MENTION ZAMHA'NAME IN TELEPHONE CALLS FROM MIAMI: CLAUSELL CAME

SEE ZARA PRIOR RECEIPT REF; THEREFORE, SUSPECT A-I MAY HAVE POSSIBLY TOLD

CLAUSELL CHECK WITH ZAMKA RE VISA.

S. PLAUSE COM 16 MAY 24 AT HARIÁMÃO (HARAMA) CURA, SON OF ADRIANO

ANO JOSEFA, MARRIED TO SYLVIA PUCA FERREIRO, TWO CHILDREN, GRADUATE OF

HAVANA UNIV SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL THERAFY, ENTERED MAVY 42, HELD RANK OF CHIEF

PETTY OFFICER AND SERVED AS MALE NURSE, AFTER CASTRO TOOK OVER ARRESTED AND

1389 MOuS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUJING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

SONIANO • PAYD, BY MOORO BODIMOSO DORMO, 1N8., 1120201 POLLO. D. 8.

003

Capy No.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

104-10163-10075

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

DATE

TO

FIOM :

ACTION..

INTO :

POUTING

140:141-

R1 Ab this copy de rodronies

MR lodeline ironce one.

Bernature

PAGE 2

HAVA 583j IN 44045

CITE

INFO

SERVED 15 MONTHS IN PRISON.

6. STATION, ODENVY AND ODOATH NO DEROG

INFO CLAUSELL.

END OF MESSAGE

CS CONMENT: •AMCIGAR REQUESTED VISA FOR ESTHER EUGENIA GONZALEZ Y DIAZ TO

WORK IN AMRASP MIAMI OFFICE.

%,

Fe:E2516ne

YOR 1389 - M

Panyius

SECRET

REPRODÜCTION EX OTHER THAN THE ESUING OFFICE iS PROMIETED,

---

