# 104-10268-10009

## Page 1

1104-10268-10009

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PROHIBITED

1. Memorandum for Winston m. SCOTT, dated 13 October

1966: Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

2. Note, undated, regarding contacts of ALFEREV.

Director; Plans,

Department.

Subject:

25 November 1964°

FOIA No.

928-9271

5.

Memorandum for Deputy Assistant Secretary

for Security

Department of State,

dated 16 September

1969; Subject:

Charles William THOMAS. [FOIA No. 1133-992]

CSCI 3/779,814, dated 30 January 1964; Subject: Jack

L. RUBY - Lee Harvey OSWALD.

7.

PARI-1731 (IN 73050), 4 December 1963 [FOIA No.

298-697]

Vote to Richard HELMS.

dated 23 March 1964, regarding

briefing at Allen DULLES' home on 4 March 1964.

[FOIA 618-793]

Memorandum of Conversation, dated 16 January 1964;

Subject:

IA Work in Support of the Warren Commis

sion.

[SX-11057 - FOIA No. 482-193]

CSCI-3/779,135 to FBI, dated 16 December 1963; Subject:

Peter

DERYABIN's Comments on the Kennedy Assassination.

[FOIA No. 413-76A]

12.

Subject:

School in Minsk, USSR.

[FOIA No. 726-314

XAAZ-17620]

emorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 March 1964;

Subject:

Reports on Activities and Travel of Lee Harvey

OSWALD and Marina Nikolevna OSWALD.

[FOIA No. 627-821]

13.

14.

DIR-92725, 6 January 1964 [FOIA No. 456-771]

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6 March 1964;

Subejct:

Lee Harvey

[FOIA 590-

KUCT ON roarding

15.

16.

HEL ROHID EDa 6 March 1964

dated 20 February

1964;

Available in OSWALD'S 201 File.

Subject:

[FOIA No. 563-810]

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 23 July 1964;

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

[DDP 4-3769]

18.

Subject:

Subject: Lee H. OSWALD/Soviet Activities

dated 27 November 1963;

City, 13 - 24 November 1963.

in Mexico

[FOIA No. 187-622]

19. DIR 85246, 26 November 1963 [FOIA No. 113-48]

20.

MEXI-7045 (IN 67281), 24 November 1963 [FOIA No.

78-5591

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

•2 .

REPRODUCTION

21.

PRON BITED

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January

Subject:

Information Developed by CIA

of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City

3 October 1963. [FOIA No. 509-803) 28 September

22.

25.

26.

Memorandum for DC/OPS, dated 23 May 1975; Subject:

ile RegardA ted Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALI

Invo remen REBRODUCTION

N Assass nation.

Subject PRETRIT

dated 15 May 1964;

Processing visi

[Belligence Service in

of that Service

to the Assassination of President Kennedy.

[XAAZ-36307 - FOIA No. 697-294]

Note dated 10 April 1964 listing material

from P-8593

shown to Warren Commission.

[FOIA No. 653-828]

Brief for Presentation to President's Commission

the Assassination of President Kennedy, 14 May 1964.

[XAAZ-27212 - FOIA No. 695- 302A]

Memorandum for ROCCA, dated 12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809

FOIA No. 689-298]

27. Letter to E. Henry KNOCHE, dated 15 April 1975.

28.

Memorandum to Chief,

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD

CS/ALA dated-27160 - 1964N0.

739-3191

30.

Memorandum for Deputy Director for Plans, dated 11

May 1964; Subject:

AMMUG/1 Information

on Lee Harvey

OSWALD. [XAAZ-27213 - FOIA Np. 687-295]

Blind Memorandum,

dated 5 May 1964; Subject: Debriefing

of AMMUG/1 - OSWALD Case.

31.

Chronology of RGR Meetings with Members of the Warren

Commission

[XAAZ-27161]

32.

Memorandum for the Record, dated 1 April 1975; subject:

CONVErStOREP RODUCTION

BELIN, 1 April 1975.

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

6

7

&

9

10

REPRODUCTION

Rocça Deposition PROMBITED

1 aprils, men

6Fan 69

VDIR. 92125

24 Notes

8pf07a81

5May 04) debriefing AMMUS/

11 May 44, F01A 687-295

19 Juney, FOLA 739-319

15 April 15, Letter from Belin to Knoche

=3 May?5, Rocca nemo entito file

/z

10 April04

0004 653-828

13

15 May. @4, Fert 697-294

1.Y

z1 Feb

01A. 559-243

15

27 Nau.030, PIR 85573

16

1 apriroy,..

Coleman-S/ausan nem

17

is April, Coleman-Stewson nam

#it?

I Jurecet, HelmsmentoRenkin

17

3/591 64, ForA 509 - 803

z2NOU 6Y, FolA 78 - 559

26 NoV 63, ForA

113-48

3=4;

27 Nor 03, FOLA

187-622

2. Feb64, Fol

09563-810

6 March6y

590÷252

2223

2027

6 Janey

156-771

31 Marchi

627-871

5 Jani

726-314

36779

28

29

10 De663

25C1 - 3/771, 235

135 5016483-767

16 Janet, ForA 482-193

23 Mark 64, FoIA 618- 783

0001874

480163

F018. 298-687

36 SaNe4C501-3/779984

REPRODUC

1133-992

PROHIBITED

PAGE

_ 08212

CoPy NO.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

36

737.

REPRODUCTION

25 Nov 64,125-927

23 Nov d3 foll

34-538

PROHIBITED

130ct 66

11, Ferris to Lü, Sertt

Office of Security Summing Reportof

C14 pole

Ugarte

jof Gilberto Alvardo

.............'

...e crattodo dead arano centodel delo daume nellaro paure e calda ci a

01f through os

COC1875

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

2

PAGE

COPY NO.

01 212

---

## Page 5

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET EYES

ONLY

PROHIBU

1 April 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:. Conversation with David W. BELIN, 1 April 1975

Q:

A:

Q:

Q:

A:

What was the line of reporting in GiA during the period I servec

as working level point-of-contact with the Warren Commission Staff?

It was

a multiple leveled things

(a) from the Commission and AWD

personally via McCone to Dick Helms; (b) from Helms to the two or

three components primarily concerned fsE, then SB, Dave Murphy;

-A, then WH; ane abl

In practice the substantive SB input worked

ip by one of its

photo for exampie search components headed by Lee Wigen. Minsk

passed via eh.

CI had own defector input.

In addition, on sensite matters of concern to the inkestigation,

Dick Helms and Murphy also dealt directly with,

Did you hear:

?? [two crypts, one sounded by "Jackenet" ?].

to Sacken able ?

Belin recalled that Castro had made a speech in which

he had charged assassination intent by emigres and had promised

retribution in kind if there was official support.

Had any thought been given to the assumption that an

anti-Castro

assassination plot might have been underway, and fact it was known

to Helms and. to Castro? [Mr. Belin said he now knew that Helms

vas, in fact, aware of something underway regarding Castro.

He

nad no evidence to show that I RGRA'hadübeen informed about it.

Would that change any of the thinking re Oswald's Mexican trip and

contacts?

Yes, I said, though I intended to

give more notential importance

to Oswald's KGB contasts, and related tha?

Iand others--thaugh

recognizing the wisdom of the Warren Commission's handling--hac

felt there had been foret the sowet aspect that should have

been

pursued:

a.

Fact that his two Sovtet consular contacts in Mexico City

had been identified as KGB and at least one (both 22 had been

traced organizattonally co.

The IBth Denartment (assassinations).

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 055431

SECRET EYES ONLY

CC61676

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY NO.

_ 0=212

---

## Page 6

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SUBJECT: Conversation with David W. BELTN

1 April 1975

b. Our defector information strongly insists that all

Western militaris defectors--like Oswald--were screened by the

13th Department.

C. Thinness of file turned over by Soviets in view of b.

I acknowledged.in_retraspect-that Cuban hypathesis was worth recon-

sidering,

sidering tease is would tate the after 1967-68, venerenes, ce

venceremos, etc.)

Q:

Why did Oswald's lies include a denial to Dallas police that he had

made the Mexican trip unless there wassomething important to hide

about it? All his other lies concerned key factual elements of his

cover story.

Why also did Marina deny she knew anything about the

Mexican trip in her first story to the FBl- which she later rectified

before the Warren Commission? Mr Belin noted that he had left the

hypothesis of Castro/Cuban involvement oper in his book.

He added

that it would have been important to have known the facts about the

anti-Castro plot at the time of the Warren Commission investigation.

He felt the least he would have doneswould have been to have insisted

on the polygraphing of Marina Oswald regarding her knowledge of

Oswald's Mexican trip.

Ramon! 4. Tocca

Counter Intelligence Operations

2

SECRET EYES ONLY

• C001877

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

NO.

• 01212

---

## Page 7

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

X:4Z-:7166

GUION

Chronology of RGR Meetings. wit

vieinbers of the

Warren Commission

14 January 1964

12 March 1964

27 March 1964

26 May 1964

28 August 1964*

12 October 1964

RANKIN, WILLINS

RANKIN

WILLINS ET AL

(LIENSLER)

"LIEBLAND'Yre DeMohrens child

"Commission" (Staissan)

Commission" (SEman sa Stare o

Greebery

*Believe Mr. Rocca was at the Cammission at least one other day

(probably Saturday, the 29th reviewins proofs.

REPROD

come bit in

i Laughing tige.

241-289245

CC(1873

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

5 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

REPKODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

5 HAS 1904

Subject- Ceneral:

1O6I Reacticing

Specifie: OSHALD CASSO

THE SCURCE DOES ICE HAVE DIRES MIGUELOT ISE BARVEX OSAID O HIS ACRFVIETES

BUT WAS NECE TO PROVIDE ITERS OF INDIREST BASSO ON COMMITS DE CUBAN INTELIONCE

CETICELS ASUIGNED TO THE DIPECCION SUSHLL DE INCELIGERCIA, UF WHICH TIE SOURCE

HINDULT WAS A STAFF OFTIGER. TEC INFORTION APPEARIEG SEICH AS FURNISHED BY

THE SOURCE AND IS SOYED TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY KUDESKO

I, Prior to Catales 1963, ASWAla visitad the Cuban Envassy in liazico

Ity on tie ones occasions.

during and arter these visits, OSAID

ras in contact with the DIRECION GRIEFAI DE QUCELICENCIS (IGI), specifical

with lisa CalDiROY, Hamel VaCA Perez and Pogallo RODRIGUEZ I0p9%o

VECA shose Cuban Intelligence pseudonyn 1s MiCOS is the current

Cubar IS

chia? in Mexico.

he rocent gas had a your of duty in dabana, prior

to winich he held the sare post aa he as Cuban IS chiar in faxico.

RODRICUEZ 15 & Cuban

start ancer 1a flexico.

ile bas three tubas

Intolligence pseudanyus,

Ca

agro sad jose Antonio.

the pracise relationsnig

of luisa CATERCH to the daI is not clear.

the spont about six months in Mexico fron which she ratumed to luba carly in

CONTI:

Wh/Sa/CI has the Lollowing references concerning Juisa

CAIDORON Carraleros

She was assigned to the comercial office ci the Cuban

Incassy in Haxico City, and she had arrived in Mecdco on 16 Jarazy 1963 and

on I1 December 1963 nade a reservation to roturn to Cuba on Cubana Airliues

13 Lecemker 1963 IN-20352, hut8153." She laft Resdco Clay for

Havana 37 is 3 Comer 1963 using passport 5/63/1 1st: 7423, 17 December 2963,

I]-02592.

Another referenes "NHa-20971, 25 Harch; IS63," said that hor date.of

arrival in sexico was 19 January 1903 and that sha had replaced Rosario VaGuEl,

^ Hedear secrstary in the connarial cifice.: Other rafaracas apparently con-

coming tua subjoct arg init 6913 and MiT 3205 Ii-50591 dateù 26 january 1963

which do not appear to add anything of irterest to that siren above.

The source does not now whether or not the Cuban Services used OSAIT

17 try agen capacity or other mannere

30

A.

Jawsrating and

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

6

COPY NO.

. of 212

---

## Page 9

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

Dainsuy in diaxico.

In addition, orlana vora losuad for all headguarters and

• Ciali oilcers of tha Dui to sort and package all docurants according to unetican

"ay were tiry secreto" (rusy saprot

"secrack Necrot), and "imortante"

Ino saterial orce pnckaged was to o hald pening further insisue-

In addition, all travel by lIngriders and all itl pouches were sug

pardod tamarartito

when the news that

HAND was the assassin reached the Bai, ticoze

sas no timodiato corment but, when tidal CAsiRO spora en tolavision to dany

Cuban inoirenont, there was considerable commer concerning wilt's resit to

tie Cuban incassy in Modeo, At this tine VAlA, who has ben mentiored praviouslys

will vas in Cuba and commented to a grow a a star Made taused vacat

To tea Cuban Embassy in Hezico to request a visa but had bean refused. VACA sid

not give any detaila and the subject as not pursued.

It 1s not known nether intornation on OSwAlD's visit to the Cuban

Consulite In Mexco In September 1263 was relayed to any Cuban serrice,

5. It 1s not known 11 the Cuban Intalligence servicos had contact vish

'the New Orlaans! Fair Play for Cuba Cormittes.

The only Kolina sho 1s recallad is "The Hlook", the Cuban who was era-

visted in New Iork City for the murier of a young girl suring a clash betreen

two Cuban groups The DI stali officar who had been in tho United ations In

SANTIOSTAZAN trateled to Cuba trith "The Hooks" and sith another Cuban

nanad CRIMItA and upon arrival in Cuba tried to obtain employnent for both

individuals, The nares Pedro Charlos and Pater kato no bean significance,

7. The reaction of Sovlot offlelals in contact with the Cuban Intalli-

services 1s not known.

Nothing is known about Soviat proposals falloring the nows of Presider'

Kermacy's assassination.

9. The only fabrication koom 13 the special natter by Midel CASIO pra-

riously mentioned.

10, Nothing 1s know about Jack Runestati aña Jacic Puse.

I. Te name Gildezbo LOPEz 13 not landliar but, 1i he visited Is head

sarters, a photograph of him possibly could be identified

Orald's photo was seen in the newspapers int nothing 1s knem scout

hin othor than irat apcoared in the press..

2

SEGRET

COCISSO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

7

COPY NO.

. of 212

---

## Page 10

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

pound ourses e old eas

Was Ise Harvey OSVAID Kaon to the Cuban Intelligenes services

before 23 November 19632 If" so which service?

2=.

Were the Cuban services using estArD in any agent capecity, or 11

any other menner, before 23 Movember 1953?

3.

What was the reaction of the Cuben intelligence services to news

of President Kennedy's assassination? To the news thet OSWALD

was the assassin?

4. Was Information on OSVAID's visit to the Cuben Consulete In Vexico

City in September 1963, relayed to any Cuban service?

If. 50, what

action was taken?

5.

Was there any contact between the Cuban Intelligence services and

the New Orleans' Fair Play For Cuba Committee?-

6.

Has subject ever heard of Marlo del ROSARIO Molina, or Pedro Charles

known also as "Peter""?

7. How did the Soviet offletals in contact with the Cuben Intelligence

services react to news of the assassination?

8. Did the Sovlets propose any type of action or Investigation to the

Cuban intelligence services fOllowing the news of President Kennedy g

assassination?

9.

Was any provocative material deliberately fabricated by the Cuben

services or others and sent to the United States to confuse the

Investigation of the OSWAID case?

10.

Was Jeck RUSDNSTIT ake Jaçk RUBY known to the Cuben Intelligence

services? I' so, in waat way?

11.

Does subject know a Gilberto LOPEZ who entered Mexico on November

23, 1963 at Neuvo Laredo, Texes and four days later proceded to

Havana by special plane.

He was 23 years old and carried a

U.S. passport. He also had a Mesicar, tourist permit. Develop

all Information jou can on this individual.

32.

Attached is a photograpa of OSWAID, and a letter from Favana

which is self-esplanatory for guidance of the case officer. Under

2O

ci-cunstzaces

should the contents of the letter be made known

to the suoject.

This information came from the Secret Service and

FBI.

SECRET

Cô(1F&i

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

of 212

NO.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

ASSIFICE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

TIAL

SECRET

VERNAL

E ONLY

COM

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, CI/R&A

TO: (Offleer designation, room number, and

building)

ĐYENSION

7468

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

/NO.

BXAAZ-27213

DATE

11 May 1964

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to shem from whom

to whom.

Draw o line ocross column after each comment.)

DDP

tho

Document Number 687-295

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

15.

FORME

3-67

S10 USE PREVIOU

EDITION:

SECRET

[CONFIDENTIAL

+201-289248

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

0OC1FE2

UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

9

FAGE

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 12

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

REPRODUCTION

PRONENED

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

• AMMUG/1 Information on

Lee Harvey OSWALD

DXAAZ-27213

11 May 1964

4 itty.

I. This memorandum falfor information and for action

The proposed lines of action are Indicated in paragraph 4.

2. AMMUG/L, PhesCuban Intelligence Service defector,

has produced information of interest to the Presidentis

Commission on the lissassination of President Kennedy. CI

Staff learned of AMMUG/K on 30 April. A questionnaire was

submitted by the Staff on I May (Attachment A). Mr. Swenson,

who is handling the AMMUG/1 debriefing, provided a reply on

5 May (Attachment B). It was clear from Mr. Swenson's

summary that AMMUG/1 had information bearing on the

OSWALD relationship with the Cuban Embassy and Cuban

intelligence personnel in Mexico City, albiet his knowledge

was not that of a direct participant in matters affecting

OSWALD. A follow up questionnaire was submitted to

AMMUG/1 on 6 May (Attachment C). Mr. Swenson's reply

was dated 8 May (Attachment D). Attention is directed

particularly to the content of paragraph two of Attachment D.

3. We have the problem of reconciling the operational

exploitation of AMMUG/1 and satisfying the responsibilities

we have undertaken with Mr. Rankin. AMMUG/1 is such an

operational gold mine that M.. Swenson wants, at a maximum,

two months to work fully. It is palpable, however, that we

must furnish to the Commission the substance of AMMUG/1%s

CS COPVI

SEBRET

EYES DILY

Document Number

687-295

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

201-284248

CC01F83

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

10

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 13

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SISSET

EYES 0717

Information on OSWALD before that

On the previous record of

our association with the Commission, particularly with Mr. Rankin,

it seems possible for the Agency to workout an arrangement with

Mr. Rankin personally that would take care of their needs and ours

after a frank discussion

of the equities.

4. It is recommended that the DDP in per son or via a

designee, preferably the former, discuss the AMMUG/1

situation on a very restricted basis with Mr. Rankin at his

earliest convenience either at the Agency or at the Commission

headquarter se

Until this takes place, it is not desirable to put

anything in writing.

Raymond G. Rocca

Chief, GI Research and Analysis

Attachments

cc: C/CI

C/WH/6 (without atty

C/WH/SA/CI (without att)

→ 2000

-ANT

13÷0

DES CHLY

281-289245

CE 1884

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 11

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Canada was tae

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPKODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

on Ormell Cis

- do dand 5 zộy 33a1

a by contes

12222"!

mail date el

no jensen to mappes the batell

el there cestarta?

SEGRET

EYES ONLY

CCC1885

PAGE

12

COPY

NO.

05 212

---

## Page 15

13-00000

EYES ONI

tam lự dịd sơi bao

den badrtitanla

ala 7

T DH Es

or ant

-tas :

Đủ ĐH DAI

Ra k7b cn iện

CASTRO

SEERET

EYES ONLY

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

ne cd

COC1886

PAGE 13

COPY NO.

os 212

---

## Page 16

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECHET

EYES ONLY

07 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff

Attention: Mr. Roca

SUBJECT General

Specific

Debrieting of AMMUG-1

Trie Oswald Case

REFERENCE

Blind Memorandum dated 05 May 1964 V

1. Reference is made to a telephone conversation yesterday

with Chief, CI Staft concerning this matter.

Because I am not aware of the information already

available to the Commission investigating the Cswald Case or

furnished by the Agency, my debrieting of the Source has been

based on the questions prepared by the C! Staff and on what the

Source answers have suggested. I shall be glad to pursue any

other topics suggested by C1 Staff.

3. The Following Information in addition to that in the

reference might be of interest.

a. Luisa CALDERON, since she returned to Cuba,

has been paid a regular salary by the DGI even though she has

not performed any services. Her home is in the Vedado section

where the rents are high.

b. Source has known CALDERON for several years.

: Before going to Mexico, she worked in the Ministry of Exterior

Commerce in the department which was known as the fEmpresa

Transimport". Her title was Secretary General of the Communist

Youth in the department named in the previous sentence.

Luisa CALDERON was transterred directly from her

position in the Ministry of Exterior Commerce to a post in México,

a matter of surprize to the Source.

Rogelo RODRIGUEZ Lopez (DGI pseudo MORCOS),

shortly before he left Cuba for Mexico on or about 16 April 1964,

saw CALDERON.

260 25L70T560

ATTS

SEGRET EYES ONLY

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COCIRET

PACE 14

COPY

NO.

0s 212

---

## Page 17

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

4. As explained to CI Staff any publicity which would

reveal the identity of the Source,,

his detection to KUBARK,

or the extent of his knowledge of DGI activities might

prejudice the operationa (use of the. Source himself and of

information which he has provided, Accordingly, it might

be appropriate to point out to the Commission (as agreec

by DC/ WH/SA) thafAUBARaS hopes, by using the Souxce,

to obtain access to DGI personnel including those mentioned

in paragraph 3 above.

Harold F. Swenson

Chief, WH/SA/CI

EVES ONLY

«SEORET

201-287248

COCIRES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

15 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 18

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6. May 1964

Proposed Questions on Oawald Case

RETIRENES: Debriellas or AUgh, dreds May 1964

1. 'The source says that pilor to October 1963, Oswald vialted the

uban Embassy in Marico Cly onitwo or three occasions.

s public knowledge he was In Mexico during the perlod 9-26-6

to 10-3-63.

20

A) When did source learn of these visita - before or after

the assassination? Please descalbe In detall the circumstances

under which source learned this information and identities of

the persons involved.

B) Did these vialso taise, place during the aforementioned

perlod or la the source settine to previous visits.

Inter, try to get more specule det regarding these trips

and the origin of the nource's Information.

The source states

-Defare, during, and aiter these visits

Oswald was In contect with the DGI, specifically Lulsa

CALDERON, Manuel VEGA

Pares and Rogello RODRIGUEZ LOpEZ.

This would appear to mean that one or more contacts were

made after Oswald returned to the United States le, between

10-3-63 and 11-22-63.

A) What does source meas by contact?

1) Can he break dows these contacts by the spectic la-

dividual named, place and type of contact and date of

occurence?

C) Did Oswald know of have reason to suspect the latelll-

gonce connections of these persons?

D) What was the purpose of these contacts?

Cel # :: 16812-27213

F96 PISTIFIST LITE

SECRET

201-287248

C001F8S

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

16

COPY NO.

0 212

---

## Page 19

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

E) Il Oswald dld not know tha intelligence aífullations of

these ladividuals, what preteste, lany were employed in

contacting hiz?

I) Did sourer ever see any documentary material on asy

of these contacts, or any corespondence initiated by or

addressed to Oswald?

G) Did the DGI ever employ physical surveillances.

technical devices or camera eguipment to cover these contacts.

I1) The source says he does not know iühether the Gubar

services used Oswald in any agent capacity or otherwise.

This obvlously makes it more important to check out what the

source maant la question one.

3. Did the DGI ever laitlate an lavestigation of Oswald?

3a What was the reason for packaging flee at DGl headquarters

and fleld of ices after news of the assasanation was receivud?

50

Source was asked whether any provocative material was

deliberately fabricated by the Cubans (Question 9) to confuse

the investigation of Oswald.. The reply attrlbuted to him was.

"the only fabrication known ls the special matter by Fldel

CASTRO prevlously mentloned. " Please clarly.

2-

COCISSO

SEOUET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

17

- 02 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEO

EYES ONLY

08 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff

Attention My. Rocka

SUBJECT General

Specific

Debriefing of AMMUG-1

"The Oswald Case

REFERENCE

Blind Memorandum dated 05 May 1964 v

B.

Blind Memorandum dated 07 May 1964

C.

Conversations between CI Staff and

C/WH/SA/CI

1. When the Oswald Case first was discussed with the Source the

specific questions prepared by Cl. Staff were posed. The ariswers

given by the Source were reported in Reference A. That memorandum

which I dictated to a Cl Staff stenographer appears accurate except for

sentence #9 which should have said that the only possible "fabrication"

known by Source was the specific denial by Fidel CASTRO, on a

television program;. of any Cuban knowledge of Oswald.

2. On 07 and 08 May 1964 I further discussed the Oswald Case

with the Source in order to clarity exactly what he knew and what

he had heard. In the light of the explanation given by him, I believe

that a clearer understanding of what he knows can be reached if I

record his knowledge without using the question and answer format.

Accordingly, in the following paragraphs I shall report all the

information given by the Source paraphrasing his explanations and

comments.

" I have no personal knowledge of Lee Harvey OSWALD or his

activities and I do not know that OSWALD was an agent of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (GI) or any other directorate

or department of the Cuban Government.

I first heard of OSWALD alter the assassination of President

Kennedy when news media carried the name of OSWALD.

Personnel in the DEl first commented about the case, so far as

I can recall, ones day after lunch when a group of officers, of

whom I was one, were chatting. The officers present were about

ten including Roberto SANTIESTEBAN, Norberto HERNANDEZ

de Curbelo, Andres ARMONA, Pedro FARINAS Diaz and

DES EMP

SEBAST

at 46X442-27213

201-289248

C0L1851

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

18

COPY

NO.

0 212

---

## Page 21

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

T to that 8 1 Ba

EYES ONLY

2

Manuel VEGA Perez.

Manuel VEGA Perez previously had

been assigned to Mexico in thé Cuban Consulate where he

was the principal intelligence officer of the DGI. VEGA

mentioned that OSWALD had gone to the Cuban Consulate

two or three times in connection with a visa application

during the time that VEGA, w as in Mexico. I gathered,

although I do not know thät VEGA made any specific

statement to this effect, that VEGA personally had seen

OSWALD. I well could have reached this conclusion

because normally VEGA and his assistant in Mexico for

the DGI, Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez, would see persons

applying for a visa to go to Cuba.

This is because DGI

officers are charged with expediting the granting of visas

of agents of the DCI. Such agents on appearing at the

Consulate use a special phraseto Indicate their relationship

with the DGI. (I do not know the párticular phrase used

in every case. I do know that agenta from El Salvador in

requesting visas always made mention of the name "Mauricio" )

The DGI officers at al Consulate interview visa applicants to

find out if they are agents. If the visa applicant does not use

one of the indicated phrases, the DGI officers, instead of

granting the visa Immechatety, tell the applicant to return in

a few days. The officer then notifies Habana and requests

authority for the visa. I cannot recall If VEGA even made the

statement that he had requested permission to issue a visa to

OSWALD, but I feel sure that he would have done so because

VEGA had said that OSWALD had returned several times and

this would be the usual procedure.

I believe that Rogelio RODRIGÛEZ Lopez also would have

seen OSWALD because he worked with VEGA and also would

have screened visa applicants.

I thought that Luisa CALDBRON

might have had contact with

OSWALD because I learned about. I/March 1964, shortly before

I made a trip to Mexico, Chat she had been involved with an

American in Mexico, The information to which I refer was told

to me by a DGl case oficer named Norberto HERNANDEZ de

curbelo.

(I remem

ur too conversation with HERNANDEZ

EYES ONLY

SEGRET

C0L1852

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

19

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 22

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ON'Y

3

because he gave me $40. 00 to buy some shoes and

other items during my trip to liexico.) I had

commented to HERNANDEZ that it seemed strange

that Luisa CALDERON was receiving a salary from

the DGI although she apparently did not do any work

for the Service, BERNANDEZ told me that hers was

a peculiar case and that he himself believed that she

had been recruited in Mexico by the Central Intelligence

Agency although Manuel PINEIRO, the Head of the DGI,

did not agree. As Krecall, HERNANDEZ had investigated

Luisa CALDERON. This was because, during the time

she was in Mexico, the DGI had intercepted a letter to

her by an American who signed his name as OWER (phonetic)

or something similar. As you know, the pronunciation

of Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in Spanish so I am not

sure of how the name mentioned by HERNANDEZ should be

spelled. It could have been "Howard" or something different.

As I understood the matter, the letter from the American

was a love letter but indicated that there was a clandestine-

professional relationshig between the writer and Luisa

CALDERON. Tal@understood from HERNANDEZ that

after the interception of te\letter she had been followed

and seen in the companior an American. I do not know if

this could have been OSWALD. I, myself, considered the

case of Luisa CALDERON unusual because I had known her

before she went to Mexico when she worked in the Ministry

of Exterior Commerce in the Empresa Transimport Department

where she was Secretary General of Communist Youth.

She

was transferred directly from that position to a post in Mexico

which seemed strange.

The only other person about whom you asked me in connection

with this, whom I recall, Is Sylvia-DURAN and I know very

little about her.

What happened was that I was in the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico on 23 March, 961 about 1230 in the alternoon

preparing to return to Habana the same. day. I was talking to

some other Cubans including Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez and

fu BUENAVENTURA af the Cuban Embassy; a courier named

"Enio", a courier named "Tato" and one other Cuban whom I

cannot recall.

we saw a pretty girl standing at the end oi

the reception room, and someone asked who she was, and one

of the group said it was Sylvia DURAN

EYES 017

SCRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

20

COPY NO.

0x 212.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SSENET

BIE JML1

4

I recall that, after the news of the assassination of

President Kennedy reached the DGK orders were issued

for all offigs of the UCI, at Headquarters and in the field,

to sort and package all documents according to whether

they were "wuy fecreto" (very secret),

or "importante" (important). The material, once packaged,

was to be held pending further instructions. All travel by

DGI officers and all DGI pouches were suspended temporartly.

In addition, I recall that DGI Headquarters personnel were

instructed either to remain in the DG Headquarters offices

or to keep the DGI aware of their whereabouts so that they

could be reached immediately. I do not know the reason for

these measures but 1 believe it logical that they were issued

because of the possibility that the United State might take

some type of action against Cuba and the DGI offices. As

nearly as I can recall, we were able to unpackage DGI files

and use them normally about the 3rd of December 1963."*

3. In brief, the Source does not claim to have any signiticant

information concerning the assassination of President Kennedy or

about the activities of OSWALD. LEthe paraphrased comments of

the Source are considered to nee further charification, I suggest that

Mr. Rocca,

who is most familiar with the details of the OSWALD

Case, talk to the Source This can be arranged at any time. Mean-

while, I shall have a question asked th a forthcoming ICFLUTTER to

determine whether or not the Source seems to have concealed any

information on this matter.

Harold F. Swenson

Chief, WE/SA/CI

20i-287241

C061894

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

21

COPY

NO.

- 02212

---

## Page 24

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DDP

2.

3.

Chief, CI/R&A

fERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSIGN

XAA2-21166

DATE

8ar June 1964

DATE

OFFICERS

NIMALS

RECEIVED.

KORWARDED

19

@COMMENTS (Number esch comment lo show

from whom

Do whom.

Drew a line across column after each comment.)

I think you will be

particularly interested in para-

graph 3 of Mr. Dooley's memo

of record, attached. Art went

over to wind upfloose end we

had with regard to the AMMUG

information we had previously

furnished.

Rock

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

BY HAND

Document Numbar 739-319

for FOlA Review on.

JUN 1976

SAME AS

1193-953

201-289248

610 USEFREYN

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CộC18S5

22

PAGE

COPY

NO.

03 212

---

## Page 25

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

SOURCE EVALUATION:

The Source is believed to be very reliable. We have

established through independent qvidence and cross-

checking that the major part of the) intelligence

information furnished by hims inquestionably

true.

For example, we knew independent of this

Source thali

Manuel VEGA Perez and Rogelio

RODRIGUE » Lope

Were Cuban intelligence officers

in Mexico.

SECHET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AMD

MITHICOS INVOLVED

0 0 -00s.- s « m aman 0 - 1 1 D -, 10900000 100

C0018S6

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

23

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 26

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-27166

19 June 190-

'TO

FROM

Chief, CI/R&A

Mr. Raymond i Bagea

STUCTION

TRA

and WarreN (entission)

: 01/31/1i. Debkey

with related documents.

(201-289,248)

1. On 15 May 1964,

we provided the President's Conmissio

with a sunmary of cur debriefing of Cuban defector AILUG 1 who had

no personal knowledge of Osweld and no information linking him to

tho Cuban intelligenci services in any manner.

As a follou-up,

Mr. Howard P. Willina of the Commission asked if hi could see

questions used in the interrogation.

On 18 June, I took the questions and sourse's responsas

to the Commission and showed them to Mr. Wiltens.

He studied

and returned the questions: to me with the observation thut

they were

• Vuly thorough and fully satistied his péquiremints. He said that lie

sai no need

to pursue this angle any lurther.

The questions and

exhibited to Mr. Willenstare attached. At no time during

with th: Commission did

ve disclose the sourse's Identity

or cryptony.n.

il'. Willons indicated that the Conmission was vinding

up its investigation..

He was highly complinentary

of Ch, yeferrine

to the agancy personnul he encountered here and in Mexico as "real

nrofessionals.

Mr. Millens asked that I convey his cest regards

Attachment:

a/s

Document Numbar 139 - 31)

for FOlA Roview ad JUN 1976,

AME AS

Arthus &. Dooley

093.953

1

- C/CI/RBA

1

- CI/R&A/AEDOOLey

1

• CI/k&A/Chrono

CS.CORE

101289748

s all,:

SECHET

Excluded fram illumult:

COL1857

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

24

COPY

NO.

• 08212

---

## Page 27

13-00000

SECHET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WARNI- NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHORIS INVOLVED

6 iny. 1964

Froposid questionson Oswald Case

REPeRCia: Dubriorin ai sion Source date May 296l

1.

2.

The source says that priot to october 1963, Ouwald Visited the

ban Embassy in Mexico City

On two or three occasions.

public knowledge he vas in Mexico during the period 9-26-03 t

10-3-63.

A) When did source learn of these visits - before oi arter

the assassination?

Please describe

under shich ator a Paced this of agation and idents tanses

the persons involved.

visits take place daring the aforementioned

period or is the sourcereferring to previous visits.

try to get more specific. detajls regarding

these tips

and the origin

oftly sourcet's laformation.

I sunce statug that before, during, end after thuse

Oswald vas in contact @i tbuthe DGI,

specifically Luisa

• CALDERON, Manuel VEGA Peréz anâ Rogello RODRIGUEL Lopez.

would appear to mean that one or more contacts iora made ulter

Osvald returned to the United States i.c., betreen 10-3-03 and

11-22-63.

A) That dies source mean by contact:

Can he break dun these contacts by the specific

individual noned, place and type of contuct, and date of

occurrence?

Did Oswald know or have

reason to suspect the

intilligence connections of these persons?

D)

that vas the purpose or these contacts?

E) It Oswala did not know the intelligence arfiliations

of these individuals, what pretexts, If any, were employed in

contacting him?

P) Did source over see any documentary naterial on any oi

these conta:ts, or ony correspondence initiated by or addressed

to Uswall?

lite Xie Fires

IS GOME SEREN

WARNING NONCE

SENSITIVE SOURG:: AND

MILOR 122D

COC1AS8

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

25

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 28

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGIE I

WAMNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURTES AND

METIIOOS INVOIVED

3.

4.

5.

Dia the DGI ever employ physical surveillances,

technical divices ai camera equipment to gavor these contacts?

IL)

The

source says haldods not know whether the Cuban

survices used Oswald in anyagent, capacity or otherwise.

obviously malis it mort Important: to check out what the source

Did the DGI swur initiate an

Investigation of Osvald?

Iliat was

reason for packaging files at DGI headquarters

and t'iold offices after news of the assassination vas received?

whether any provocative material vas deliberately

fabricated by the Cubans (Question 9) to confuse the investigation

of oswald.

The reply attributed to him vas,

"the only fabrication

the special matter by Fidel CASTRO previcusly mentioned."

Addendun 18 Juna with relesence

to

15 ;

the only possible

fabrication

• known by source was the sp:cific

denial by Fidel CASTRO on a IV program of any Cuban knowledge

ot Cswald.

-2-

284148

SECHEY

WARING MINCE

SENT :

111.

C0C1993

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

СОРУ

26

NO.

0f 212

---

## Page 29

13-00000

Said i

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WARMING HOUS

SENSITIVE SOURCE da

METROLE WHOLE

5 May 1964

Subject - General: Debriefing of Cuban Source

Specific:

oswaud.Case

The source does not have afege knowledge of Lee Harvey OSWALD

or his activities but was able to provide items of interest based on

Cuban intelligence officers assigned to the Direccion General De

Inteligencia.

The information appearing below was furnished by

the source and is keyed to questions submitted.

ex prior to october 1963, Ost Visited the Cuban End areas

in Mexico City on two or three oscasions. Before, during and after

these visits, OSWALD was in contact with the Direccion General De

Inteligencia (DGI), specifiCally with Luisa CALDERON, Manuel

VEGA Perez and Rozeke HOURIGUEZ Dopez.

VEGA whos

e Cuban intelligence pseudonym is MARCOS

is the current Cuban 1S chern Mexico.

He recently has had a

our of duty in Habana, prigr to which he held the same post as

now as Cuban IS chief in Mexico.

RODRIGUEZ is a Cuban IS staff officer in Mexico. He has

three Cuban intelligence pseudonyms, Eduardo, Casimiro and Jose

Antonio.

11/24 YAAZ. 211!!

The precise relationship of Luisa CALDERON to the DGI is

not clear. She spent about six months in Mexico from which she

returned to Cuba early in 1964..

2.

The source does not know whether or not the Cuban Services

used OSWALD in any agent capacity or other manner.

A. When news of the assassination of President Kennedy

reached the DGl, it caused much comment concerning the fact

OSWALD had been in the Cuban Embagsy in Mexico.

In addition,

orders were issued for all headquarters and field officers of the

DGI to sort and package all documents according to whether they

10 A8921

IS ROPE:

SEGNET

WARNING NOTICE

0811.2410.2.10.

Meline litt

0001980

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

27

COPY NO.

or 212

---

## Page 30

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Mile indice

SEMSITIVE CR685 AND

METHOUS M VOLVED

were "Muy secreto" (very secret), "secreto" (secret), and

"importante" (important). The material once packaged was to be

held pending further instructions. In addition, all travel by DGI

officers and all DGI pouchegwere suspended temporarily.

B. When the news that OSWALD was the assassin reached

• the DGI, there was no immediate comment but, when Fidel CASTRO

spoke on television to deny Cuban involvement, there was considerable

comment concerning OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

At this time VEGA, who has been mentioned previously, was in Cuba

and commented to a group of DGI staff officers that OSWALD had come

to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico to reguest a visa but had been refused.

VEGA did not give any details and the subject was not pursued.

4. It is not known whether information on OSWALD's visit to

the Cuban Consulate in Mexico in September 1963 was relayed to any

Cuban service.

5.

It is not known if the Cuban intelligence services had contact

with the New Orleans' Fair Play for 'Cuba Committee.

6. The only Molina who is recalled ig "The Hook", the Cuban who

was convicted in New York City for the murder of a young girl during

a clash between two Cuban groups. The DGI staff officer who had been

• in the United Nations in New York, SANTIEST ABAN traveled to Cuba

with "The Hook" and with another Cuban named ORIHUELA and upon

arrival in Cuba tried to obtain employment for both individuals.

The

names Pedro Charles and Peter have no known significance.

7. The reaction of Soviet officials in contact with the Cuban intelli

gence services is not known.

8. Nothing is known about Soviet proposals following the news of

President Kennedy's assassination.

9. The only fabrication known is the special matter by Fidel

CASTRO previously mentioned.

10. Nothing is known about Jack RUBENSTEIN aka Jack RUBY.

11.. The name Gilberto LOPEZ is not familiar but, if he visited

DGI headquarters, a photograph of him possibly could be idertified.

12. OSWALD's photo was seen in the newspapers but nothing is

known about him other than what appeared in the press. ut

WARIN. :

..ca

SCISIVE

ANU

SECRET

MEl.

189218

C001961

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

28

NO.

0s 212

---

## Page 31

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Kilio, MOlICE

MOTH MIND

METHODE ALICIVED

1 MAY 1964

Proposed Questions on Oswald Case

1.

Was Lee Harvey OSWALD known to the Cuban intelligence services

before 23 Novenger 19632 If so which service?

2. Were the Cubag ser

any other manner,

using OSWALD in any agent capacity, or in

23 November 1963?

3. What was the reaction of the Cuban intelligence services to news

of President Kennedy's assassination? To the news that OSWALD

was the assassin?

• 4. Was information on OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico

City in September 1963, relayed to any Cuban service?

If so, what

action was taken?

5. Was there any contact between the Cuban intelligence services and

the New Orleans' Fair Play for Cuba Committee?

6. Has subject ever heard of Mario del ROSARIO Molina, or Pedro

Charles known also as "Peter"?

7. How did the Soviet,

officials in contact with the Cuban intelligence

services react to news of the assassination?

8. Did the Soviets propose

Cuban intelligence

assassination?

my type of action or investigation to the

following the news of President Kennedy's

9.

Was am

servi

investi

provocative material deliberately fabricated by the Cuban

other and sent to the United States to confuse the

*e OSWALD casa?

10.

Was Jack RUBENSTEIN aka Jack RUBY known to the Cuban intelligence

services? If so, in what way?

Does subject know a Gilberto LOPEZ who entered Mexico on November

23, 1963 at Neuvo Laredo, Texas and four days later proceded to

Havana by special plane.

He was 23 years old and carried a U.S.

He also had a Mexican tourist permit. Develop all

information you can on this individual.

20-184048

IS CAN

WARING; NOTICE

:1611!0

is

0001902

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

29

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SEBEE/

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WAR

JU NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES ANO

METHODE MENTO

12. Attached is a photograph of OSWALD, and a letter from Havana

which is self-explanatory for guidance of the case officer. Under

no circumstances should the contents of the letter be nade known

to the subject.

FBI.

301251248

WARNING NOTICE

SENSIVE SOURIES AND

PETite top. 100900

00C1963

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

30

COPY

NO.

0: 212

---

## Page 33

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEO

55-1846

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Connor

C. Douglas Dillon

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkland

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

April 15, 1975

Mr. E.

Henry

Knoche®

Assistants

to the Director

Centras

Intelligenge Agency

washingt

Dear Mr.

Knoche:

As you know, there have been allegations that the CIA was

involved in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro. For the

purposes of this letter, we will assume that these allegations

are correct,

know the answers to the following questions:

1.

Did anyone with the CIA tell any member of the Warren

Commission or any lawyer serving on the Warren Commission

staff that such plans had been underway? If the answer is

yes, we would like to know what person or persons with the

Agency delivered said information, to whom it was delivered,

when it was delivered, what specifically was told or' said,

what documents there are to support the answers to the fore

going questions, and what response, if any. was received from

the Warren Commission.'' If the Commission was not told about

this, why was it not told and who made the decision not to

deliver such information to the Warren Commission?

2.

There is evidence that Castro, prior to November 22, in-

1963,

knew about the existencevof such plans and the possible

olvement of the U.S. Government. Did the CIA at any time prio

o the completion of the Warren Commission investigation hav

any documents or other information indicating that Castro may

have knawn about such plans?

If the answer is yes, would you

please furnish)us with copies of all such documents and details

of any such information.

3.

Several months prior to the assassination of President

0001°C4

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

31

NO.

0212

---

## Page 34

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-2-

to possible assassination

retaliation.

attempts on his life and

possible

would you please advise us

if there is any

evidence that this Associated Press report may have appeared

in any newspapers in the Uhited States, including specifically.

any newspapers.in Dallas, or New Orleans.

Would you also

advise us &f"you have any other information of public state-

ments of any Cuban. leader prior to November 22, 1963 indicating

any awareness of possible assassination plots

on the lives of

Cuban leaders.

4. Would you please advise us if there is any information

CIA records to indicate that at any time prior to November 22,

1963 any foreign government or any foreign group was consider-

ing a possible assassination. of any American leader.

would you please advise us of all details and also advise us

who: in the United States Government outside the CIA was ad-

vised of these plans or possibilities.

Prior to his. death Lyndon Johnson supposedly stated that

he believed that although there was no doubt. that Oswald

killed Kennedy and Tippitt, nevertheless Oswald might have

been a part of a conspiracy in retaliation to possible United

States assassination attempts in Cuba.

Would you please advise

us of any information in Agency files

showing whether or not

there was any communication to President Johnson of any possible

plans involving the

attempted

assassinations of any Cuban

leader and if the answer is yes, also give us all details

involving this matter.

Sincerely yours,

David W.

Belin

Executive Director

0001.965

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

32

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 35

13-00000..

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22809

12 May 1964

1745

MEMORÄNDUMSFOR Man Rocca

"Interval Mame Rogerding Agausy's Position

with

The DDP called me this afternoon, 12 May, to state

that the Directos has received a telephone call from RANKIN

regarding the Commission's desire to interview him at 1030 AM,

Thursday. Mr. HOOVER is scheduled to appear at 9:00 on that

morning.

Dealing.

AMMO

2.

The DDP wishes to have from you a short but

comprehensive memorandum which highlights the basic issues or

positions entered into by the Agency in its dealings with the

Commission.

For example, RANKIN indicated that the Commission

would wish to hear the Dire ctor's views as to how improvements

might be made in protecting the President's life.

Further, they

will probably ask questions regarding the possibilities that a con-

spiracy existed. Such general questioning certainly necessitates

that the DCI be made aware of the positions taken during previous

interviews.

I raised with Mr. HELMS the nature of the recent

information which you are processing which originated with the

sensitive WH source.

I informed him that in your view this would

raise a number of new factors with the Commission, that it should

not go to the Commission prior to the Director's appearance unless

we have first had some preliminary reaction or made sure that the

Director is fully aware of its implications since it could well serve

as the basis for detailed questioning.

The DDP stated that he would

review this carefully and made a decision as to the question of timing.

3. Given the schedule, you will appreciate that the DDP

will need a paper covering the above points as soon as possible.

J.A.

CS COPY

Document Number,

684-298

for FOLA Review on

JUN 1976

201-289248

206-5-44

6001966

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

33

NO.

oi 212

---

## Page 36

13-00000.

-??.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

14 May 1964

Brief for Presentation to

President's Commision on the Assassination

14 May 1964

Document Number 695-302 A

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

CS COPY

SECRET

201-284248

6001.907

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

34

PAGE

COPY

NO.

0212

---

## Page 37

13-00000;

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE 21

Summary. Outline

2a%: 24;

This brief is concerned yith five topics which, it is

anticipated, will arise in the course of the Director's appear-

ance before the P

ent's Commission. These are:

a. Formal and loqualified negation by the DCI

of any contact or association, direct or indirect,

between the Central Intelligence Agency and Lee

Harvey Oswald. This should be accompanied by

the tabling of an affidavit signed by the Director

and notarized. (TAB A)

b. A formal assurance by the Director that all

information in the possession of the Agency regarding

Oswald's activittes and associations outside of the

United States has been made available to the

Commission through its staff, with which there has

been close and frequent contacts since the inception

of the Commission's activities. (TAB B)

Co. An interim pronouncement by the DCI on the

problem afor

orietresponsibility-for Oswald's

C0C1908

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

35

COPY

NO.

оз 212

---

## Page 38

13-00000 •

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•.••

SEG ET

activity. It is suggested phat the DCI take the position

that at this time there is no conclusive evidence of

conspiratopial sponsorship af Oswald; that all Agency

information bearing on this problem has been furnished

to the Commission for evaluation and consideration in the

framework of its total knowledge of the facts. The Agency,

at the present time, is lacking any knowledge of recent

information or documentation furnished by the Soviet

Government to the Commission with respect to Oswald's

activity in the Soviet Union. (TAB C)

d. The DCI's suggestions for improving policy and

organization with respect to the personal security of

the President. Certain steps relating strictly to the

Agency's jurisdiction have already been suggested by

memorandum. It is proposed that the Director now

make specific suggestions involving legislation which

would treat information bearing on the personal security

of the President and, advisedly, other Federal officials

directly related to national security affairs in a manner

similar to what currently exists by statute for special

2

C0G19(3

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•PAGE

36

COPY®

NO.

0212

---

## Page 39

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

nuclear material or weapons introduced to the United

States or manufactured therein fThe Atomic Weapons

Awards Act aRts July 1955). (TAB D)

Doval aet vity in Mexico and his possible

relationship to the Cuban Intelligence Service.

Substantive information of grave concern to the

security of sources and methods have been developed

on both of these topics. The information and, in certain

instances, knowledge with respect to acquisition has

been made available on a highly restricted basis to

Mr. Rankin and to certain elements of his staff. It is

recommended that the DOl not respond on the record

to queries on these topics. He should suggest that all

such "technical questions" be worked out in detail through the

channels and procedures that have functioned very well

- we believe - between the Commission and particular

CIA components. (TAB E)

C061910•

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

•37

COPY

NO.

0: 212

---

## Page 40

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

A

REPRORUCTION

\PROMONIG

COC1511

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

38

NO.

0+212

---

## Page 41

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEORET

(

TAB A

Formal claimer of any Relet onship with bee Harvey Oawald

There have been yumore and allegations which began :

immediately after the assassirtation which branded Oswald as a

U.S. Government agent. In many instances, CIA has been

named as his sponsor. The authorship, geographical dispersion

throughout the world, the identitycof themes and the timing lend

strong support to the conclusion that these charges are elements

of a world-wide, So

sponsored propaganda and misinformation

program.

As DCI, MI. McCore welcomes this appearance before

the Commission to make a categorical and unqualified denial of

these unprincipled distortions of the historical and personal

responsibilities for what was a dastardly and heinous act. In

witness of this, the DCI submits to the Commission an affidavit

which formalizes this statement. The affidavit is attached.

It is recommended that the DCI state concurrently with this

action that he desires to draw the Commission's attention to the

fact that the irresponsible charges that have been made, sponsored

0GC1:12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

39

COPY NO.

0212

---

## Page 42

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEB

and replayed by Soviet bloe and Communist individuals and

os gans siage the assarmation of the President, recall the

methods and the puxgores of the/froader campaign against

American intelligence and sécurity components which has built

up momentum over the past six years. We have traced the

sponsorship of that campaign directly to individuals and com.-

ponents within the Soviet police state apparatus. Their un-

scrupulous treatment of the Oswald case was neither new as a

method nor a surprise as an occurrence.

If the DCI is challenged by anyone on the Commission

about the substance or implication of his affidavit, it is recom-

mended that response be along the following lines:

CIA is a democratic institution. The DCI has

incorporated in his affidavit the results of detailed

and painstaking examination.

Ikany qualification is

raised with respect to the affidavit, he willingly

undertakes the extraordhary step of releasing any

individual in CIA to appear before the Commission

and to testify wi

pect:to

any knowledge beazing

on the Commission's task

2

COÇ1913 •

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

40

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 43

13-00000. •

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

AFRIDAVIT OF JOHN A. MCCONE

STATE OF VIRGINIAN):

COUNTY OF FAIRYA

JOEN A. LICCONE, being duly swors, deposes and saya that he la

the Director of Central Intelligence, and that based on his personal.

knowledge of the affairs of the Ceatral Intelligence Agency and on detailad

Inquirios be caused to be made by the officers within the Central

Intelligence Agency who would have knowledge abous any relationship Lee

Harvey Oswald may have had with that Agency, he certifies that:

Lee Harvey Oswald was not an agent, employee, or

laformant of the Ceatral Intelligence Agency:

the Agency never contacted him, Interviewed hi,

talked with him, or received or solicited ady reports or

information from him, oncommunicatediwith him, directly

or indirectly, la any other manner;

the Agency sever fussianed bim any funds or mosay,

or compensated him, irectlyvor indirectly, in any fashion;

Lee Harvey Oswald was never associated or connected,

directly or indirectly, in any way whatsoever with the Agency.

JOHN A. MCGONE

Subscribed and sworn to this

day of..

1964, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Virginia, by the

said JOHN A. McCONE, who is personally known to me and he duly

acknowledged to me the execution of the foregoing instrument.

Notary Public

My commission espires

(Scal.)

CC01914

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•PAGE

COPY

4

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 44

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PROMISI

COC1915.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

42

COPY NO.

ö 212

---

## Page 45

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE

TAB B

Dissemination of Information to the Co

ssion

The DCI should make the general statement that CIA

has supplied all the information in its possession regarding

the activities, affiliations and associations of Oswald. Copies

of the reports and access to original data, in specific in-

stances, has been given to Commission representatives in

accordance with the DCI's expressed instruction from the

inception that the Agency place itself completely at the

Commission's disposition,

SS0027

COC1C16

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 43

COPY " NO.

08 212

---

## Page 46

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C

REPRODUSTION

PROMIS

18J

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6001/17

PAGE 44 or 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 47

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

TAB C

The Problem of Conspiracy

The DCI should note that from

the start he had given

specific indications to Agency persohnel working on the

Commission's proto into tacoration bearing ou

Oswald's possible relationships with foreign sponsors be

made available to the Commission. The DCI may state that

he is gratified that his instructions have been carried out

diligently and promptly. Among the items of information

provided the Commission have been studies on the organi-

zation and functions of components of the Soviet police

state which are

wito include individuals and units

charged with the performance of what is euphemistically

referred to as "executive action' but is,

in fact, charged

with assassination and sabotage.

The DCI should state that no firmeridence has thus

far developed abroad linking known Soviet, Soviet bloc or

Cuban intelligence and assassination personnel or organi-

asia with to set comino oz on th

rey Oswald in

Dallas on 22 November

COC1.10

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 45

- • 212

•COPY• NO.

---

## Page 48

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECR

con-the-record

It is recommended that the DCI handle any

questions

from the Commission with respect'to the apparently favorable

treatment afforded Oswa

Gathe USSR, the withdrawal of his

wife, his possible contact there with Soviet State Security (the

KGB), and related questions which would tend to establish

Oswald's associational link with Soviet intelligence as

"technical questions" and, therefore, beyond the scope of

present testimony. It is suggested that he rest on the fact that

the Commission has taken up these points item-by-item with

the technical levels of the Agency and that the ultimate findings

and evaluation can only be determined by the Commission.

2

0001913

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

46_0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 49

1.3-00000 :

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUATIOM

PROMEITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C1r25

PAGE

COPY NO.

41

_ 0з. 212

---

## Page 50

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

TAB D

•. i

Suggestions for Improving Policy and Organization Regarding

Presidential Security

MI. Rankin raise

then, 94e

stion dire ctly by letter. In

its response, the Agency confined itself to elements relating

to its statutory mission. Specifically, it was suggested that:

a. The Secret Service, or Treasury, record

with the Office of Central Reference a formal require-

ment for information relating to Presidential security.

b. It was suggested that, if the Secret Service

intended to expand its

Apteltigence coverage of possible

threats to the President's security, our experience

showed that it would need a specialized organizational

component to handle that task within the Secret Service

itself.

c. The CIA reply also noted that the Agency was

in direct touch with the Secret Service regarding the

possible utilization by that agency of our experience in

machine data processing

On the public record, it is

suggested that the DCI not repeat this detail.

S:

0C01521

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

48

COPY NO.

212

of

---

## Page 51

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

In his presentation to the Commission after referring

to these earlier suggestions.

the DCI-should state that he desires

to take the opportunity

offer a

Juggestion which he has not

tabled heretofore.

The Commission's major problem has been the assessment

of personal motive and the relationship of an individual act to

possible conspiratorial guidance. Because conspiracy is the

core of the problem, the DCI should point out the possibility of

legislative action which might be an assistance in preventing

recurrence of the national calamity it is investigating. There

is an analogy at close hand between the problem of developing in

advance information relating to Presidential security and the

problem faced by the country a few years ago regarding the

clandestine introduction or manufacture in the U.S. of special

nuclear material or atomic weapons. The remedy devised at that

time was embodied in the Atomic Weapons Reward Act of 15 July 1955

(29 Stat 365, PL. 165, 84th Congress). In essence, the Act estab -

lished a substantial reward ($500, 000) for information bearing on

the Act provided by any person, and in certain instances privileged

treatment for such persons -- for example, asylum if they were

2

0801922

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

49

COPY

NO.

•of

212

---

## Page 52

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

C.

foreigners, was assured.? Finally, a Reward Board was

created to administer the purposes of the Act.

1 The DOl should superat the Commission consider a

recommendation for original legislative action designed to

induce individuals to furnish information bearing on Presidential

security by offering a substantial reward and preferential treatment.

The DCI should assure the Commission that he is convinced that

the substantial award, the special treatment, and the publicity

which would attend the implementing legislation in this matter

could represent a significant inducement even to staff officers

and personnel of secretiassociations and state security organs

abroad whose functions include assassination and sabotage. It

is these individuals who would be privy to plans of executive action.

The reward would constitute additional inducement for such

individuals to take the risk of making important disclosures.

The Buggastion done not seation the saterial elemente of

reward and special treatment The DCI can assure the Com

mission that we are aware that personnel in police state apparatuses

charged with the assassination and sabotage functions have repeatedly

expressed and, in many cases, acted upon their repugnance for

3

SECRET

CEC1/23

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

50

COPY NO.

.of

• 212

---

## Page 53

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

such work and for the system which calls upon them to do it.

There are specific cases in the past teg years which document

this assertion, Trusted personnel charged with assassination

missions have abandoned the mission even without the assurance

or the inducement which the DCI is here proposing.

In making this suggestion, the DCI may go one step furter

in advising the Commission to suggest that the Commission

examine the advisability of legislation making it a Federal offense

to conspire and to kill the Chief Executive. 3) The DCI could also

indicate that the Commission might desire to suggest that any

legislation along these lines should be enlarged to include con

spiracy to kill any Federal official in the President's personal

circle of official associates directly concerned with national

security affairs. (The Agency's Legal Counsel states that

draft bills have been considered on the Hill.) .

CCC1:24

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

51. 08_212

COPY MO.

---

## Page 54

13-00000.:

INTE

"AL SECURITY MANUAL

SENATE

levise

86th Congress

Znd Session

pp 275-217

ATONIC FESTOSS BESIRES AGI

¡ Act of July 15, 1955 (62 Sist 305, P.I. 165, Sith Gong.)-tomic

Weapons Rewards cl of 1385:

"Do it enacted lu the Scratc und Mouse of Depresentrlites of

Mus United Sintes of incrice in Congress Assembled, That this

•oc may bo cied aside lichie Weapors Revards Aet of 1955'

"Sec. 2. Any person ske fumighes original intormation to sho

United States-

"(a) loading to sholfinding or other acquisition by tle

Chired Staies

of any special

nuclear material

or atomic

weapon which has been incroduced sto tho

United Staies,

or which has been manufactured or acquired therein contrury

to the lass of the Uniied Scares, or

"(b)" with respect to an attempted introduction into tho

United Sintes or an attenpied manufacturo or ncquisition

therein of any special nuclear material or atonic seapon,

contrary to the laws of the United States,

shall bo rewarded by the payinent of an amount not to excced

$500,000.

"Sac. 3. An Awards Board consisting of tho Secretary of tho

Irensury (who shall bo the. Chairman), the Scoretary of Delens

ho Acorney General, the Dircetor of Central Intelligence, and

of one member of the Atomic Energy Commission desiguated

by that Commission, shall determine whether any

person 'fur-

nishing information

to the United States is entitled to any

arrard and tho amount thereof to bo paid pursuant to section

In determining

whether any person furnishing informa-

tion to the

United

States is entitled to

an nrard and

tho

amount of such award, the Board shall tako into consid-

cration-

"(a) whether or not tho information is of the typo specified

in section 2, and

"(b) schether the person furnishing the information was

an officer or employce of the United States and, if so, whether

the furnishing of such information was in the line of duty of

that person.

reward of $50,000 or more shall bo approved by the

President®

"Sric. 4. If tho information lending to an award under section 3

is furnished by an-alien, the Secretary of State, the Attornoy

General, and the Director of Central Intelligence, acting jointly,

may determine that the entry of such alien into the United States

is in the public interest and, in that event, such alien and the mem-

bers of his immedinte familinmay reccire immigrant visas and

may bo admitted to the United States for permanent residence,

notwithstanding the reguirements of tho Immigration and sir-

tionality Act.

"St.c.

hold

5.

Tho Board established uncer section 3 is authorized to

such hearings and make, promulate, issuc, rescind, and

amend such rules and reguintions as may be necessary to cary out

G. Any arards granted under section 3 of this Act shall

bo certified by the Awards Board and, together tith the approval

of the President in those cases where such approvnl is required

transmitted to the Director of Central Intelligence for payment

out of funds appropriated or arnilable for the administration of

the Yational Security Act of 1017, as amended.

"(a) The us atomic energy means all forms of energy so

Icased in the course of nucicar fission or nuclear transformation.

"(b) The term

"ntomic menpon' incans any device utilizing

tomic energy, erclusire of the means for transporting or pro

pelling the derice (where such means is a separnble and divisibl

part of tho derico). the principal purpose of which is for uso as,

or for derelopment of, a weapoil, a treapon protosypo, or a reapon

test duvice.

"(c) The term 'special nuclear material' means plutonium, or

uranium enriched in the isolope 233 or in the isolope 235, or any

other maserial which is found to be special nuclear material pur-

sunnt to the provisions of the Aromic bueray Act of 105k

"(d) The serm "United Sinies,' when used in & geogmphical

sense, includes Pucrio Nico, all Territories and possessions of the

United Siates and the Canal Zone; escept that in section * tho

term 'United States' when so used shall have tho meaning given

to it in tho Immigration and Nationality Ace"

Doct

No.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

OC1:25

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

52

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 55

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPR

GESTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0C(1/ 26

PACE 53: 0s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 56

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S80791

TAB E

Mexican and Cuban Phases of Oswald's

Extensive

Information has been made available to the

Commission by CIA on the working level regarding Oswald's

activity in Mexico City in September and October 1963. The

Commission Staff bas been in detailed communication and

conversation with the Agency working levels both in head

quarters and in Mexico City. Within the past week,

significant information has been developed by CIA regarding

the relationship with Oswald of certain Cuban intelligence

personnel in Mexico City and the reaction in Havana within

the Cuban Intelligence Service to the news of the assassination

of President Kennedy The Commission Staff is in the course

of being briefed on the Cuban aspect.

It is suggested that the DCI handle any question on the

Mexican and Cuban phases of Oswald's activity as "technical

questions" which members of the Commission can develop

from of through their owa staff with the appropriate component

of the Agency. This would be entirely consistent with the DCI's

overall assurance that be had tengrated bia personnel to place.

their information completely at the Commission's disposition.

COC1: 27

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 54

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 57

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

10 April 1964

O MATERIAL FROM P-8593 TO WARREN COMMISSION

1.

English translations of calls made by OSWALDto Russian Embassy:

27 Sep 63 (1037); 27 SepTd3 11626); 27 Sepyla (1605); 28 Sep 63 (1151);

1 Oct 63 (1031): 1 Oct 63 120) fran

2. English translation of conversation between President Dorticos in

Havana and Cuban Amb Joaquin Hernandez Armas in Mexico on 26 Nov 63.

3.

English translation of conversation between Cuban Am to Mexico and

President Dorticos in Havana on 26 Nov 63.

Document Numb 53-828

for FOlA Review on:

JUN 1976

fi. 18577

34

TECT BET

21M 1224

-: Bis (12

RECORD COPY

TX- 1892

201-289248

10 APR. 64

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C061: 28

PAGE

55

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 58

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

"ET

(

XAH Z-36.307

15 MAY 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI. I. 100 Bantia

Gentral Counsel

President' a Comesisalon on tha

Ayatnation of President Xenaciy

SUBJICT:

Robe of the cuba Intelligence Serica

is Processing VIsa applicanto; Reackion

of that Service to me Assassintion i

President Kannedy

Within the very roenut period, this Agency bas ascablised

costacs with a vell placed individual who bas been la close ass

prolonged contact with ranting oífie=a at the Caban Direccion

Genezal de Intelligencia (Directorate General of intelligenes - DCI).

His kaowledgo of DOl activitine, techniques and personalities is

direct and proíound. This Agency has queried sim in detaid ou

possible contacts between Les Hary CONALD and be DGI pelor..

to the assassiadon d Frosident Kennedy. A report on the lalor

mation thus obtained la attached to this memorandum.

2. This sourco lo highly sensitiv, and of great, lamedlato

operational significanca to this Agency. The national sounteriatelli-

gence interest abroad reguires, terriors, that recasa to the arached

report, as knowiedge of the axistence dl this source do restricted,

¿or the prasent at lena, to yourself an a sinimu zambor of your

Document Number 1677-294

for FOlA Review on

3Ch 1975

SECRET

autorist

F-TOBER 1975-

10%

sara dot as cata PRE

EG: 2007÷7784 4779

201-789248

GCC1: 23

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED.

PAGE

56

COPY NO.

of

• 212

---

## Page 59

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

62381

3. In sopropra sonsivit indicato:

Jose allised to

this memorandum and ine tbacard report.

¿ copy oi this memor aadura with lta traches is been

for murded to the Federal Juraan of Invesigation.

(Signer) Menard leins

Richard Hams

Depuly Dirsesor los Plani

Distribation:

Orig. 32 - Addressee

2 - DDP

2 - C/CI/R&A

1 - C/WH/3

1 - C/CI:;

Originated By:

K/ Hall: gh

13 May 1964

-3-

Dow-graded to

JECRET

5365948

date. -

da unity 25 OcTeBeR 1275

32357

SHE NOTICE

i SOURCES 400

premism

C001.20

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

57

COPY

NO.

05 212

---

## Page 60

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPDODUCTION

PROMETTO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C1531

PACE

58

COPY NO.

oe 212

---

## Page 61

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

21

Too scarce has no perponal i

3= bis activities and iooupos Isem

Di tin Diraccion Genuraft inteliganel (2D) ar asy dibor diric-

toraio or da partners al the Chia joves.

Bensoy when sava bardo cadad OSWALJ's 2ate- ICI 2530004l

2rst commented abent the tasa in his priance ons day sites lancis.

when a group d nifers was contiay. Among them bas hansel

VEGA Peros win pauloualy bad born aadigned to tha cabar

Consulado la bladco Siy, warra la nas dia principal DEl officer.

VEGA saenticad that OSTALD bad gosa ta la Sabra Consisiato

two or toros tsaos is connecdon with a visa applic ties during

tha time sent VEGA was in Meries.

Whenses OSWALD bad any contic with Voss, on thora breastca

commitos camarily blaszion rise applicants to detaine lI

they are IGI ajanta. Il applicants and identiflad sa agents, thely

savel lo axpadtted, Otherwise, they are noually told to come back

13 a lam days, Daziny tha interim zipideans zames as onbraitted

so Savana for further chrcing and nutrictlena. detenting to te

FONTEe, OSHALD Jay bary been butarulesed by VOGA a St

assistan, Bog lin 30DRiTust lores, but this in strictly con

joctane bu ida part. The source does nok tay Sivia DURAN e

snything periduent sbout bus orcent that aho man present la be

Suban Dratnary ta Merico ia 31a5ch 1981.

After the nume of the alsassinstion al Prorident Bannedy

secand the ICt, inters toro isuad for all Dle componenka in

tho covatiy to sort and pachage all documents accoritag to shector

troy mrs "nay secretol (razy secaut); "serratal" (secret), or

SECRET

Coungraded 10 #

365.371

SATICE

E92 3532T79 6063.05

EI-95TT

COC1/52

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

59

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 62

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

32 322287

"importzuta" (irapart

The natarial, suco consolitated, tas

so bo bold sending Dox

nastractions. All travel by Dol oftears

as suspended torporarily

Duddie, Ial Headguarter" personal

is loghai that they sa

Cated State mighter

aner sona type all setter againet Duba

remon to

Downgraded to SECRET

355.249

by authoriz ' OcTOBER 197

20777

1З NORCE

SOURCES AND

125 NOME

COC1S33

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

60

NO.

or 212

---

## Page 63

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

23 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR! • DC/OPS

SUBJECT

• Review of Selected Items in the

Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding

Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban

Involvement in the

John F. KENNEDY Assassination

1.

The attached sewiew. and summary was written at

the express request of ir. David W. Belin as a follow-

up to Question 3 of his letter to the Agency of

15 April 1975.

The results - as I have already told him - ada

nuance, not evidence,

to what the Warren Commission and

its staff had laid before then in 1964 on this subject.

The results of the review are stipulated in paragraph 8

of the Attachment.

There seemed to be no reason to

attach copies of the case reports from the file to this.

These can be made available promptly, however,

This sumary- does not deal with press,.

magazine and books that dealt with the subject during

the period after the assassination..

My recommendation is to do with this paper as

we did with the earlier one requested by M... Belin on

let him read the entire summary

and then decide how much of le, at any, is pertinent

SECRET

. IMPDET EL BY 055431

CCC1. 34

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PACE

61 o 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 64

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

...

SECRET

to his and the Comission's needs md

then decide hos

auch will go into the clasaiflod record.

PROMIS

Raymond G.

Attachsent

C0C1^35

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 62

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 65

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

SUBJECT : Review of Selected Items in the

Lee Harvey OSWALD File-Regarding Allega-

tions of CASTRO: Cuban Inyolvement in the

John F. KENNEDY Assassination

REFERENCE : •Letter by David # Belin to

paragraph 3

Henry Knoche, 15 April 1975,

(Regarding Public Statement

by CASTRO,

etasy, attached

BACKGROUND

1. On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963,

Fidel CASTRO appeared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in

Havana; even more unusual, CASTRO submitted to an informal

interview by the Associated Press correspondent,

Daniel HARKER.

2. HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday,

8 September, and was in print throughout the country on

Monday, 9 September. There can be no question from the

facts surrounding the CASTRO appearance, which had not been

expected, and his agreement

to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get a

message on the record in the United States.

SECRET

COC1^36

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 63

COPY

NO.

01212

---

## Page 66

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRE

3. CASTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of

topics but dealt principally with Am

Lican political

leadership, in particular President KENNEDY, whom he ex-

coriated in extraordina

provocatiye fashion

(" ..• KENNEDY is a creti

>"..• the BATISTA of his

times ... the most opportunistic American President of

all time ...").

4. The interview also contained an uncomplimentary

reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing

the limited nuclear test ban. There were differences in

the replay by United States newspapers like the

New York Times and Washington papers, with a result that

CASTRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

5. In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided

until the middle of September 1963, the HARKER story

appeared in the principal morning paper the Times-Picayune,

on Monday, 9 September page 7, under a three column head-

line:

"CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says U.S. Leaders

Imperiled by Aid to Rebels." The story followed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) - Prime Minister

Fidel Castro said Saturday night: •U.S.

leaders would be in danger if they helped

in any attempt to do away with leaders of

Cuba.'

2

SECRET

C0C1.37

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

64

COPY NO:

08. 212

---

## Page 67

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"Bitterly denouncing what he called

recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-

tory, castfo said:

welare prepared to

fight them and answer in kind. U.S. leaders

should think

Nbat it they are aiding terror-

ist plans

to

eliminate Cuban leaders, they

themselves will not be safe.'

•.. World affairs ... seemed to be

entering a more peaceful climate a few days

ago, but now this trend has changed with

attacks.

""The U.S. is always ready to negotiate

and make promises which later it will not honor.

This has happened to promises made during the

October crisis. They have been broken as can

be seen with new attacks.

"'But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

crisis than October's ...'"

6. The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September,

used a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference

to the warning and threat which gave the interview its real

significance.

The Washington Post did an abbreviated re-

write (9 September, page A-7) which, similarly, omitted

any reference to the main thrust of CASTRO's remarks.

SECRET

COCIS3S

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

65

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 68

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

The Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed the HARKER

story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the

paper (9 September 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content

of the HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the po-

litical aspea

- in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER

elements and burying CASTRO's warning to the United States

leadership in the middle of the piece.

7. There is no evidence in the files on the RENNEDY

assassination)that this CASTRO interview was considered in

following up leads or in dealings with the Warren Connission

and its staff although Mexico Station specifically directed

Headguarters attention to the AP story very shortly after

the Dallas killing. More important, the interview appears

to have been forgotten in the contemporary political consid

eration of relations with CASTRO's Cuba.

There is no evidence

in the Agency records, either, that the Warren Commission

staff itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO interview

in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no

evidence in the files that anything along these lines was

stated by any other Cuban leader before the assassination.

8. The purpose of this review, undertaken at Mr. Belin's

request, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD's activity on the

assumption that as an

avid newspaper reader - which we know

from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the

CASTRO warning and threat as reported above. The results

SECRET

CCC1933

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

66

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 69

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

of the review, admittedly heavily using the 20 - 20 quality

of hindsight, may be stipulated in summary:

a.

There is no increment of credible

evidence, applying this phrase

strictly, of

soviet anator Cuban political, intelligence

or security service involvement in the as-

sassination to what was developed and con-

sidered by the Warren Commission and its

staff. The Commission's finding that

Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of

President KENNEDY and Officer TIPPIT and did

them in alone and of his own determination

stands.

b. "Credible evidence" that would

upset or significantly modify this judgement

did (and does) not exist in Washington. But

such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or

Havana, whose voluntary inputs to the warren

Commission were minimal in quantity and

quality, designed to cover up any admissions

of knowledge of, or connection with, OSWALD

which might be related directly or indirectly

with the assassination. Therefore, the belief

that there was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and/or

DGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and

SECRET

CCC1940

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

67

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 70

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

-grow until there has been a full disclosure

by these governments, of all elements of

OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union

and a contacts in Mexico City. The

warren Comination report should have left a

wider "window" for this contingency. That,

indeed, was the opinion at the working level,

particularly in the counterintelligence com-

ponent in the CIA in 1964. As was indicated

by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the

Warren Connission, CIA would continue to

regard this aspect of the OSWALD case as

still open.1

c. In the absence of additional on new

elements of "credible" evidence,

are

"nuances" in the record that eme

as

note-

worthy, in the light of other conclusions.

These are reviewed and summarized below, item

by item.

a. CASTRO's warning and threat of

i September 1963 If OSWALD did indeed read

Investigation of the Assassination of President John F.

KENNEDY.

Hearings Before the President's Commission

on the

Assassination

of President KENNEDY (Washington,

1964),

hereafter cited as Hearings, Vol. V., pp.

120

especially p.

=129.

See

124 - "Mr. Helms:

'Yes.

I would assume

the case could never be closed.'"

6

SECRET

C001941

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 68

- 01212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 71

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

it in New Orleans.

must be considered of

great significance; in the light of the

pathological evolution of OSWALD's passivel

aggressive makeup after his attempt to kill

General walkaR early in April 1963 and his

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

Cuban revolution which is directly trace-

able as far back as his Marine Corps.

service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP corres-

pondent HARKER, irrespective of whether

there was any formal mandate, of even

security service contact with OSWALD:

by the Cubans or the Russians - was an act

of singular irresponsibility and under no

circumstances was excusable as retorsion

for what the Cuban emigres were doing during

the summer of 1963.

CUBAN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA,

EARLY 1959 (2)

9. The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion

of germinal significance to any review of the background of

Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with

CASTRO's Cuba. DELGADO was probably the closest peer group

7

SECRET

C001942

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

69

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 72

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

member to OSWALD during his specialist training period

at El Toro Marine Corps Base December 1958 - September 1959.

The Warren Connission Report takes note of this:

TOSWALD, tOld DELGADO that he was in

with

Cuban diplomatic officials in

this country, which DELGADO at first took

to be 'one of his lies, but later

believed. " " 2

10. Actually DELGADO's testimony says a lot more of

possible operational significance than is reflected by the

language of the report, and its implications do not appear

to have been run down or developed by investigation. Thus,

the record of the beginning of OSWALD's, relationship with

the Cubans starts with a question mark.

11. The period was one of transition in U.S. - Cuban

relations after CASTRO's takeover. OSWALD, and DELGADO at

the outset, were CASTRO supporters, OSWALD being particu-

larly keen about how to get to the island. DELGADO testi-

fied:

2

"..• I didn't know what to tell him, so

I told him the best thing that I know was to

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President. John F.

KENNEDY (Washington, 1964), hereafter

cited as Report, p.

8

SECRET

CE(I943

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

: 70

COPY

NO.

08 212

---

## Page 73

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S

E

CRE T

get in touch with a Cuban Embassy, you know.

But at that time, that;

I told him this - we

were on friendly terms with Cuba, you know,

so this wasn't no subversion or malintent,

you know.

didn't know what to answer him.

I told him to

see them.

"After a while he told me he was in

contact with them ...

" ... I seen this envelope in his foot-

locker, wall-locker, and it was addressed to

him, and they had an official seal on it, and

as far as I could recollect

was mail from

Los Angeles, and he was telling

there was

a Cuban Consul. And just after he

started

receiving these letters - you see, he would

never go out, but stay near the post all the

time

" ... he had one visitor after he started

receiving letters he had one visitor. It was

a man, because I got the call from the MP

guard shack, and they gave me a call that

OSWALD had a visitor at. the front gate. This

man had to be a civilian, otherwise they would

have Iet him in., So I had to find somebody to

relieve OSWALD, who was on guard, to go down

SECRET

COC1S44

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

NO.

_ 212

---

## Page 74

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S

ECRET

there to visit with

this fellow, and they spent

about an hour and a half, two hours, talking,

I guess, and he came back. I don't know who the

man was or what they talked about, but he looked

nonchaland about the whole thing when he came

back. He never mentioned who he was, nothing.

"MI. LIEBELER: How long did he talk to

him, do you remember?

"MI. DELGADO : About an

hoar

and balf,

two hours ...

"Mr. LIEBELER:

You

who this fellow was ther

asked OSWALD

to?

"MI. DELGADO: NO. NO

"MI. LIEBELER: Did you connect this visit

that OSWALD had at that time with the Cuban

Consulate?

"Mr. DELGADO: I did; because I thought it

funny for him to be receiving a caller at such a

late date - time. Also, up to this time he

hardly ever received mail; in fact he seldom

received mail from home because I made it a

policy, I used to pick up the mail for our wit

and distribute it to the guys in there, and very

seldom did I ever see one for him. But every so

often, after he started to get in contact with

10

SECRET

CCC1S45

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

72. 01

NO.

212

---

## Page 75

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

tarted getting letter

these Cuban people,

pamphlets and news

Rape

arted receiving letters,

you know

and

no (bo

maybe pamphlets, you

Know,

church, things we get from

church, you know, but it wasn't a church.

OH. IXBLER, Were they written o

Spanish, any of them, do you know?

"PIE. DELGADO: Not that I can reca

no.

"MI. LIEBELER:

Did

to believe that these things

jany reason

OSWALD

from the Cuban Consulate?

"MI. DELGADO : Well, I took it for granted

that they did after I seen the envelope, you

know .. something like

a Mexican eagle, with a

big, impressive seal,,

you know. They had dif-

ferent colors on it, red

and white; almost

looked like our

lors,

now.

But I can't

recall the

knew it was in Latin,

that. I couldn't under-

United, sOMe

stand. It was Latin.

"Mr. LIEBELER:

You don't know for sure

whether it was from the Cuban Consulate?

11

SECRET

C0G1946

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

73

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 76

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"MI. DELGADO g) No. But he had told me

prior, just, betore

Infound that envelope in his

wall locker; that hewas receiving mail from

them? and one time he offered to show it to me,

but I was ly buch interested because at the

time we had work to do, and I never did ask

to see that paper again, you know.

"MI. LIEBELER: Did he tell you what his,

correspondence with the Cuban Consulate was

about?

"Mr. DELGADO: No, he didn't.

"Mr. LIEBELER: Did he ever

indicate

Sito you

that it had to do with the conversati

Jons

that

you had about going over to Cuba?

"Mr. DELGADO: No. . The only thing he

told me was that right after he had this con-

versation with the Cuban people was that he was

going to - once he got out of the service - he

was going to Switzerland... "3

12. OSWALD's application to Albert Schweitzer College,

Churwalden, Switzerland, was dated 19 March 1959, and he

was presumably to report there on 20 April 1960. Destined

for discharge

from the Marines on 7. December 1959, OSWALD

Hearings, Volume VIII, PP. 241 - 243.

12

SECRET

C001947

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

74

COPY

NO.

0s 212

---

## Page 77

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S E

CRE T

accelerated his exit on grounds of family hardship in early

September 1959.

ay september 1969 he was isaued a

u.s. passport valid

fat

travel - among other places to

Cuba and

USSR.

He entered the Soviet Union From

Finland on

т 1959.

13.

DELGADO' testimony has the cast of credibility.

Granting that, it is of basic importance to focus attention

on the male visitor who contacted OSWALD at El Toro Camp

and talked with him for between one and a half to two hours.

The event was unique in DELGADO's recollections, and actually

there is nothing like it - on the record - in everything else

we know about OSWALD's activity in the United States before

or after his return to the United States. The record reflects

no identification of the El Toro contact. DELGADO's presump-

tion is that he was from the Cuban Consulate in Los Angeles.

Assuming that, the questions are: Who was it, and was

there reporting

from. Los?

Angeles to Washington and Havana

that could, in

effecte

represent the opening of a Cuban

file on OSWARD

"PREDICTION OF

ESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEMISE BY COMMUNIST

PARTY CELL. LEADER MORSE BENITEZ ZABOLA, 1962

14. Guatemala Station forwarded to Headquarters on

9 January 1964 a duplicate copy of à raw report by a

U.S. /Cuban diplomatic and consular relations were severed

on 3 January 1961.

13

SECRET

C001948

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 75

cop! 3o.

os 212

---

## Page 78

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

penetration dated 5 danuary

1962 describing events at the

yearly Communist Party

cell meeting. The cell leader,

Morse BENITEZ Zabolai

said that the Communist Party in

Guatamala should fory a single new party;

"We need not

preoccupy ourselves over the politics of President KENNEDY

because we know, according to prognostications, that he

will die within the present year, 1962."

15. This report apparently had been discounted when

it was received and was not forwarded until the Station

re-reviewed all of its material after the assassination

The file reflects no follow-up or formal dissemination

of the report.

ENIGMATIC THREATS BY CUBAN THIRD SECRETARY IN THE HAUCE,

7 NOVEMBER 1963

16. A sensitive liaison source, reporting after the

KENNEDY assassination, indicated that at the Soviet reception

on 7 November 1963, the Cuban Third Secretary.

Ricardo I. SANTOS Pesa, discussed the recent refugee raids

on Cuba and their implications with a host-country diplomat,

concluding with the admonition: " ... Just wait and you

will see what we can do. It will happen soon."

Asked to

be more specifig what would happen soon, SANTOS replied:

"Just wait, just wait."

17. These data were passed to the Warren Commission

by memorandum, 31 March 1964. SANTOS was reported to have

14

S E CR

E T

C0C1645

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

76

_ of

212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 79

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

a history of medical instability and was summarily recalled

from The Hague reportedly for reasons related to that fact

in April 1966.

INTERCEPTED: CONVERSATIQNOF

CUBAN EMBASSY EMPLOYEE

LUISA CALDERON, AFTERNOON OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963

17390

mexico City time, about five hours after the

KENNEDY assassination, a Cuban Embassy employee named

"Luisa" received a telephone call in Spanish from an uniden-

tified male outside.

19. The caller asked her if she had heard the latest

news. "Luisa" jokingly replied: "Yes, of

course, I knew

it almost before KENNEDY ... Imagine, one, two, three and

now; that makes three [she laughs], what barbarians!

20. Both speakers agreed on the seriousness of the

assassination. "Luisa" also stated that the party at

Silvia DURAN's had been called off so it would not appear

that they were celebrating the death of KENNEDY, nor would

they have the partys cointide with the burial. Finally she

said sherplanned ig move that night into the house of a

doctor la womant friend.

21. Latin hyperbole?

Boastful ex post facto suggestion

of foreknowledge? This is the only item in

the intercept

coverage of the Cubans and Soviets after the assassination

that contains the suggestion of foreknowledge or expectation.

15

S E

C

RE T

00C1:50

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

77

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 80

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

22. The tenuous, enigmatic character of the conversation

is sharply highlighted by the following

facts:

a. "Guisa" was probably identical with

Luisa CALDERON, a cadre worker of the Cuban

Directorate Cenéral of Intelligence (DGI).

She returned to Cuba in 1964 and was reported

to be working in DGI Headquarters.

b. The DGI element in Mexico City in the

fall of 1963 was headed by Alfredo MIRABEL Diaz

who had arrived on 2 September 1963, formally

•as the replacement of the Consul Eusebio AZCUE

(departed 19 November 1963). The deputy DGI

chief (and as of June 1964, MIRABEl's successor)

waS Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez.

The "Silvia DURAN" named in Luisa's

conversation was the receptionist, a Mexican

national, who dealt with OSWALD during his known

visits on 27 and 28 September to the Cuban

installations in connection with a Cuban visa

application for stay and/or transit.

Silvia DURAN is the sole live witness on the

record regarding OSWALD's activity in

Mexico City-

Her testimony, however, in its

entirety was taken and presented, solely, by the

Mexican Governmental authorities. A direct

16

SECRET

C001951

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

78

COPY

NO.

08 212

---

## Page 81

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

confrontation with her was requested by the

warren Commission staff but rejected by the

Mexican authorities. It is from Silvia DURAN's

statements that it was learned that OSWALD

became engaged in a personal altercation on

27 September with Eusebio AZCUE.

₫. Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez,

alias Marcos, and his DGI assistant,

Rogelis RODRIGUEZ Lopez, were positively

identified in February 1964 by two independent

sources as engaged in the active development

and facilitation of the training of Nicaraguan

agents for the purpose of assassinating

General Annstasio SOMOZA. VEGA, it is estab-

lished, was on post in Mexico City during

OSWALD's stay there 27 September - 2 October

1963. He left Mexico City on 3 November 1963

for Havana. It was reliably reported about

VEGA that all individuals going to Cuba, legally

or illegally, had to pass through him first. He

took the biographical data and sent it to Cuba

for name checking, a procedure which normally

took fifteen days. 5

For example, VEGA would have handled the details of the

visa action and facilitation of the

trip to Cuba

Mexico City from 28 December 1962 - 21 January 1963 that

17

SECRET

CCC1552

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 79 01 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 82

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

23. There-is

no evidence in the OSWALD case file that

Silvia DURAN was subjected to a systematic elicitative

interrogation that would have related her dealings with

osing, moong ex confirmed by intercept, with the data held

on the cuban

DGI, its personalities and methods, in

Mexico City. Was it normal for a case like OSWALD's,

considering the fuss he allegedly made with AZCUE, for the

applications to be handled

solely by a local employee and

a lame duck like AZCUE whose slot had been taken by the

DGI chief? Whatever the answer to these questions, they

were not asked at the time. And there remains the more

fundamental question: accepting the DURAN story on its

face, could it have happened without the knowledge and

participation of the DGI personnel above cited? This

seems unlikely especially because VEGA is later &

ited l

a Cuban DEI defector as having stated he was aware OsWArD

made several visits to the Cuban Consulate. It is clear

CASTRO's overseas intelligence and security service could

have more in its files than was surfaced in the DURAN

was taken by Vincent Theodore LEE, the organizer of the

Fair Play Committee for Cuba, with which OSWALD established

relations from Dallas during the period 19 April -

2 November 1963.

There is an overlap between LEE's and

VEGA's travels to Havana during that period: VEGA

departed Mexico City on 6. January for Havana and returned

on 13 February 1963.

18

SECRET

C061.53

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

80

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 83

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

statements., Coming back to the beginning: "Luisa" -

Luisa CALDERON - as

a member of the DGI unit in Mexico City -

sould very well have known something that would make what

she said to her unidentified caller less a matter of

boastful self-indulgence than was assumed at the time.

SILVIA DURAN,

SUBSTANTIAL AMPLIFICATION OF ADMISSION OF

ALLEGED PERSONAL RELATIONS WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, 1967

24. The defects viewed in hindsight of the Silvia DURAN

testimony already have been

suggested above.

(In that

context of criticism it would also be relevant to reconsider

the implications of the two intercepted telephone conversations

on 26 November 1963 between the Cuban President, DORTICOS,

and his Ambassador to Mexico, Joaguim Hernandez ARMAS,

because the thrust of the conversation dealt with the ques-

tion whether Silvia DURAN had been asked about [or been

offered?] money payments by her Mexican interrogators.)

25. As of September 1964 Silvia DURAN gave up her

Cuban Embassy job. In the spring of 1967 Silvia DURAN

was reported by a reliable and sensitive

source to have

cut all relations with Cubans. Her account, in 1967, Of

how she had been taken into custody and had been interrogated

after the assassination repeated what was already known.

She added, under circumstances that did not permit the

source to challenge of elicit corroborative detadt, that

19

SECRET.

6001954

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

81 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 84

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"she had gone out with OSWALD during his stay in Mexico City

and claimed she had aexual relations with him.

ALLEGATIONS

OF CONSPIRATORIAL CONTACT BETWEEN OSWALD AND

CUBAN GOVERNMENT AGENTS WITH PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO

ALLEGATIONS OF (A) ELENA GARRO DE PRAZ AND

(B) OSCAR CONTRERAS

26%

Warren Commission reported, "Literally

dozens of allegations of a conspiratorial contact between

OSWALD and agents of the Cuban Government have been

investigated

...."6 Among these cases, which consumed

hundreds of CIA man-hours in Headquarters and abroad

and similarly the FBI in the United States was the

Nicaraguan walkin in Mexico City, 26 November 1963,

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.

27. The ALVARADO case is taken up in detail by the

Warren Commission under the cryptograph "D."' ALVARADO

claimed that he had seen an American, whom he identified

as OSWALD, receive money some time in mid-September 1963

in a meeting in a patio of the Cuban Consulate in

See Report, p. 305 ff. - Some of the others were the cases

of Ylario

ROJAS Villenueve in Cozumel and Guadaloupe,

the allegations of Enrique Ruedolo GONGORA in New York City,

the claims of Robert Edward GALLANT, Santa Clara Prison

Farm, California, and the allegations of Ray DOBKIN's.

7

See Report,

307 - 308.

20

SECRET

C0C1/55

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PACE

82

COPY NO.

0! 212

---

## Page 85

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

Mexico city. ALVARADO's story was ultimately broken by the

use of the polygrapha on which ALVARADO showed evidences of

deception, and by bringing ALVARADO's former Nicaraguan

security service contraf into the case.

28.

The ALVARADa story is a particularly acute repre-

sentation of the difficulties that beset the evaluation of

observed evidence: certain elements of the story persist

despite the impeachment of its major premises. ALVARADO,

whose account did not become public until the release of

the Warren Report in October 1964, talked consistently of

the presence in the Cuban Consulate transaction of a Negro

with red-dyed hair.

29. Elena GARRO de Paz is a mecurial,

siculate and

socially prominent Mexican writer, married, but separated

from a high-ranking Mexican foreign service official. She

is also the cousin of Horacio DURAN, the husband of

Silvia DURAN, cited above. There is a strong personal

antipathy between the two women descending from

Elena GARRO's trenchant anti-Conmunism,

30. From October 1964 until his retirement in the fall

of 1969, a U.S. Embassy officer, Charles THOMAS, persistently

kept up a stream of reports and memoranda reflecting GARRO's

account of what had actually gone on between OSWALD, the

Cubans and in particular Silvia DURAN in September 1963,

including a repeated reference to a Negro with red-dyed hair.

21

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001956

PAGE

83.

COPY

NO.

o 212

---

## Page 86

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

31. The first reference to the GARRO story was noted in

a Mexico Station Memorandum of Record dated 12 October 1964:

"Elena GARRO [said] that she and her

daughter were invited to a party at the Cuban

Embassy daring the period she now finds out

that osmo was here in Mexico prior to the

assassination. She was invited by a Mexican

secretary in the Cuban Embassy whose husband

is a cousin of the GARRO family (Horacio DURANI.

At the party she saw three Gringos, not

drinking, not mixing and more or less just

standing around together like three bumps on a

log. They were so obviously out of place that

she asked someone in the Cuban Embassy about

them and was told that 'they were just passing

through.' She claims that ón the way these

three Gringos stood out she took a good look

at them as did her daughter. When the

assassination occurred and OSWALD's picture was

spread into the newspapers, both Elena and

her daughter immediately said that he was one

of the three Gringos 'without a doubt' at the

party."

32.

GARRO repeated her story to Mr. Charles William

THOMAS,

an Embassy political officer on 10 December 1965:

22

S E

CRE T

CCC1.57

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

84

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 87

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

In Septenber 1960 after her saturn from abroad, she went

to a party, accompanied by her daughter, at the home of

Ruben DURAN Temphasis addedl. Ruben is one of the two

brothers af Horacio DURAN, who married her cousin. She

met

oswang and two other young Americans. At the party

she was discouraged fron talking with him. Other quests

were the Cuban Consul AZCUE, General Clark FLORES,

Silvia DURAN, who she later learned was OSWALD's mistress

while he was here, Emilio CARBALLIDO and a Latin American

Negro man with red hair (emphasis addedl. In November 1963

when the identity of the assassin became known, she and

her daughter went to the Cuban Embassy and shouted

"assassins" and other insults at the staff there.?

shortly

afterward, she and her daughter were visited by a friend,

Manuel CARVILLO [OT CALVILLO], then an official in the

Secretariat of the Gobernacion and were told he had orders

to escort them to a smaland obscure hotel in the center

of town.

were kept there for eight days under pretext

that they

anger. When she told CARVILLO she wanted

to go to the American Embassy and explain what she knew of

OSWALD, she was told that the American Embassy was full of

Communist spies.

33. On 25 December 1965 and 9 January 1966 in further,

interviews with THOMAS, GARRO and her daughter elaborated and

8

These particulars were not confirmed by independent observers

at the

time.

23

SECRET

CCC1958

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

85

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 88

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

in certain particulars significantly modified her earlier

account.

She also acknowledged that she and her daughter

had been interviewed by Embassy officers to whom she claimed

cho i not great not couplete gore me ence to

anything

they said.

34. It developed that GARRO and daughter had been

interviewed by the Legal Attache on 17 and 24, November I264.

Her information had been similar to what she claimed in her

account to THOMAS but had not been substantiated byinquiries.

The Fal representative therefore considered the matter closed

and reaffirmed his disengagement from the matter to the CIA

Chief of Station on 27 December 1964 and to the Ambassador

on 25 February 1965.

35. The Embassy Political Officer, however, persisted in

his interviews and reporting. In a memorandum of conversation,

13 July 1966, CARRO identified the place to which she had been

taken by CALVILIO as the Hotel Vermont.

(This detail checked

out affirmatively: CARRO was at the Hotel 23 - 24, 25 - 27

and 28 - 30 November 1963.). In another, on 7 February 1967,

GARRO 'S

Vicissitudes with the Cubans are set out.

And finall

UpON THOMAS's retirement from U.S. Government

service, the Department of State, at his request,

28 August 1969, disseminated to CIA and FBI a compilation of

his reporting of the Elena GARRO interviews.

24

SECRET

CCC1/53

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

86

NO.

212

of

---

## Page 89

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

36.

There the matter rests. GARRO's chronology of the

events she described, as having occurred in the Mexican capital

in September 1963 never coincided with the confirmed data

of OSWALD's presence there.

Her story, however, had two

points. congrunt with allegations by others regarding

OSWALD:

a.

ALVARADO's allegations regarding the

Negro with the red-dyed hair (this detail could,

however, have been gleaned from the

Warren Commission's published account of the

"D" casel and

b. Silvia DURAN's later claim of

intimate personal contacts with OSWA

37. Beginning in March and amplified in May 1967, the

American Consul, Benjamin J. RUYLE, in Tampico developed a

contact with a local Mexican journalist,

Oscar CONTRERAS Lartigue, who claired to have encountered

OSWALD with other pro-CASTRO students at the

University of Mexico campus in September 1963.

38. In June 1969 CONTRERAS was interviewed by a CIA

officer:

He studied law at the University of Mexico

for three yer

approximately 1960 - 1964. He

belonged to a clandestine pro-CASTRO revolutionary

group at the University. Regarding the OSWALD

25

SECRET

COC1.00

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

•COPY NO.

87.

212

of

---

## Page 90

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

case

he was extremely cautious and although he

was not able

If gilling to give dates and

names, he said OSWALD visited the University

of Mexi

Campus shortly after the Cuban

Emba

a him a visa to visit Cuba.

OST

nquiries regarding pro-Cuban

revolutionary groups at the University and

was directed to CONTRERAS and his friend.

OSWALD met CONTRERAS and four other persons:

as they came out of a round-table discussion

held in the faculty of Philosophy

OSWALD

told the group it was urgent that he visit

Cuba and the cuban imbassy bag dented nia a

visa. He requested aid from CONTRERÁS' group.

CONTRERAS and others mistrusted OSWALD because

they felt he was

a CIA provocation. The group

allowed OSWALD to accompany them the rest of the

day, that night and part af the next day.

OSWALD

was very introverted and appeared to be slightly

crazy. OSWALD made no mention of an assassination

plot but kept

• point he had to

travel to

mmedi

gly.

39: At this

h FBI knowledge, the matter was

turned over to the Mexican authorities who determined that

CONTRERAS was indeed at the University of Mexico but only

26

SECRET

C001961

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

88

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 91

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

for the years 1959 - 1960

and that he had been publicly

associated in protest activity for the Student Revolutionary

Bloc (BER) in January 1961. However, the group ceased

functioning as such in the middle of 1962, and

Oscar

CONPRERAS was never one of its leaders. No further

work is

reflested in the files on the CONTRERAS allegations.

Apart from the unsustained claims made by CONTRERAS about

his own presence at the University, there is an additional

element that undermines the credibility of his account:

OSWALD's Spanish, which was barely adequate to get him meals

near the hotel, seems hardly likely to have permitted'him to

carry on for an extendad period with @ univers student

27

SECRET

6001/62

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

NO.

89 0212

---

## Page 92

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22594

31 January 1964

MONCRANIMFOR: Mit. J. Leapiani

SUBJECT:

"Ilarmatisa Developed by CIA on the

Mexico CEy, 28 September - 3 Cctobes 1963

as Transmitted to Warren

Commissien

Lo I am enclonia, a presertation of the infertsatio

developed by CIA on or about Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico

City. We have lacioded in this paper onty hard, substative

Informatial, Asy judgments that are made represent yo

fessional evaluations by individuals who have worked over

the years as specialista in their fielda. Speculation, suzos,

and vagse derail not directly salsted to OSWALD's activity

have not been inchuled.

Ze Pursuant tO OUE discussiOn OB 14 January 1764, I

have gives the enclone an approgriate classificatios, The

comprecise of this material in its present form would lead

directly to the destruction di current sources and methoda al

this Agency in Mexico and elsewbere.

Document Number.

509-803

(signed)

for FOlA Reviem of

Risbard Heles

Ti duN 1976 Deputy Director fos Plaza

Encloure

Tones s

Orig & 1 • Addressee w/att

1 ~ DDP #/att

1 - WH/3 (MI. Whitten) w/att

1

X- Chief, CI/R&A w/att /

7e6 /964

- mem

dated 10

CIA

CI/RGRocca:dc/ 31 January 1964

CS COPY

I ATT.

201-289248

31 dau ki.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0025C7

PAGE

134 •212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 93

13-00000

SECRE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

73

W.

SE "

31 JaNUary 186÷

laGe, Brid

Information Dercloned by ClA gu the Activity o!

Led Farvay OSWALD is Victico City

28 Septoriber - 3,Cctcles° 1953

I 95W115's Activity in Viesico City

1. On 9 Octobest too GIA Station in Mexico Cisy rescived

the following information fross a reliablo and proven source:

Ai American named ine OSWALD had contactei

tse Soviet Embassy in Merico City on Tuesday, l Octobes

1963. He had spoken in haling Russian to the Soviet

Embassy guard, Ivan Ivasovici OBYEDKOV, tu whor

he said ho had visited the Imbassy two days earlicr,

Saturday, 28 Septomber. No asked whether there had

boen a reply to a telegram that the Consul with whom be

had spoloz, but whose name he couid not roez!, had

promised to sezd to Washingios, OBYEDKOV had

attempted to establish the iventity of the Consul with

whom OSWALD had lied; l i had been a dari cursor.

then it had yobably beca kOSIlkOY, OByEDiOV,

WARNING RONGE

SECRET SENSIVE SCURCES ANO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COC2rC8

PAGE

135

of

COPY

NO:

212

---

## Page 94

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE RET

after a chock with Sovic: Consular personnel, assured

OSWALD the telegram had bees sent to Washington but

no answer had beco Icceived.

To liarmation was forwardod bo

cablo to CiA Hicadguarters

tho semo day it was seccivado!

2. A filo choek la washingen aica la routizo la thasa

matters rovealed the possibility of an identity between the Lec

OSWALD wco had sposea with OSYEDKOV, and presumably

with KOSTIKOV, and the defector returnoe, Lee Harvey OSWAID.*

3. On 10 October 1963 CIA Headquarters disseminated by

cable tie report in substantially the form and in the detail

indicated above, in paragrayh 1, to the Federal agoncies whoze

jurisdictional interesta bad been established by a review of

OSWAID's file: the Federal Burcau of Investigation, the Depast

* The CIA file on Lee Harvey OSWALD was opezed on 9 Decomber

1960 to accommodate biographic i fo-mation developed by CIA ia

response to an inquiry from the Departmeat a State on a list oi

Amcrican defectors in Soviet Bloc countrios. OSWALD's was

arrong the names in the list.

was dated 25 October 1960. An interim reply was given by CIA

03 3 November 1960; a final repay, on 21 November 1950.

carly October 1953 tse contents a tha OStALD ale hold by CIA

consisted entircly; of press materiala and dissemications

received from the Departmost o. State, the Federal Bureau o

Isvestigation, and the Navy Department.

wants

Die and a do ori

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

136 0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 95

13-00000

-

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

AND

¿eat a State, the Navy Dopastnoat, sud the Immigration zed

Naturalization Servico. A commons was inchuded in the report

noting the likelihood that tha subjeci, Ize OSWALD, was

probably identical with the formc viarize wao had deíccica to

tho Soviet Union in 195% (The repori dissemiuated by CIA in

Washingtoa on 10 Coober also iscluied a paypical descripcion

se an individual who sas believed to have bees the OSWALD who?

had contacted the Soviets in Merico City. It was subseguca"

established by investigation that the description did not pertain

tO OSWALD. I

i On the same day, 10 Cotober 1953, CIA Hcadguariora

seat a lengthy cablo summary to tho Vicrico City Station on the

background info-mation hel in the deadguarters: die o

OSWALD. An instruction was incluled for the Mesico City

Station to pusa the substance of its 9 Cetober reposs to the local

representatives of the samo Federzi departments and ageacies

that had been given the information in Washington, This

instruction was immediately carried out. Is this manrer tie

information os OSWAID ia costact with the Soviets on l Octaber

was passed in Merico City to the Embassy, the fBI repsosentative,

tig Naval Attacho, and so the affice of the Immigration and

Nsturalication Service. There were no sequesta rom ecirania of

the report for fustbor isformation or for follow-up investigation.

-3-

WARi

in troo:

SENSITIVE SCURCES AND

MITHOOS INVOLVER

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CCC2810

PAGE

137 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 96

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

5. Aitor the ascassimiica di Prcsident Kcnaiy sad the

arust of 1ed Earvoy OS VAly da Latensive review of all

available sourcos was code=tates la iexico City to ectertaiae

so purposg a OSWALDS visita: It was learned at OSWALD

had also picked tho Cuba= Consuiato la Mexico City and lad

DURAN. After the assassination and the publicity about Ico

OSWALD, SIlvia DURAI bad told a suraber of relativos aad

filonde that she had talkeu to OSWALD about a Cubas visa.

Silvia DUBAN and her husband, Horacio DURAN Navaszo, wera

dutalned aud questioned by the Mexican police froza 2'3 to 25

November 1963.

6. Aitor giviag some of tse dossils of her own personal

baciground - sho ls an adraittod icitist sympatizor sad had

fonacaly worised for the Mexica-Cuban Instituto as Cultural

Relations - Silvia DUBAN said that when she fizat heazã of the

dania of Prosident Keanedy galas bcon deprossed and taougat

the assassin must have been a maniac. When she learned that

ho was associa

ted with the "FalePlay for Cubz Coraltico""

she did not bo

7. She lied about tus case io her husbazd and when the

heard the zamo of ICC OSWALD zestioned, she recognized it as

WARKING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SCURTES AND

MET 199

LVE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/11

: PAGE

138 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 97

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

cie man sino had corse to te Consulato about two monihs beforc

co set a visa to transit coda

in his way to the USSR. She

, soalisad ins head said no was marrisa to a susalas and thai

hor file on him in the Concular aichives and from the cascitivo

dats, she was suro it was the same man. Ho was shost, blond,

poorly dressed and his face goi red whes he talked, lie was

denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have a Soviet

visa, and be was told to get to Soviet visa flist, but it was noted

at this sould take about four szontas. She had asiod sio Cuban

Consul himselí, Fuseblo AZCUE, to talk to OSWALD and chey

bad an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to leave Mesico

Instead of waiting there. The Consul had phoned the Sovie: Cor-

sulate and talked to the person handling OSWALD's case, whu

had said it would take about four months to hear from Moscow

about the Sovict visa.

The samaliteraoon, OSWALD had camo

baer again and she had tot

the same thing. Sho gavo

OSWALD a slip off@par with damo and talephone suribar oa

it is casc be

et got his Soviet visa. He did not call back, she sald.

8. Silvia DURAl's husband, Horacio DURAN Navario, gavo

assunilally the same story, as he had previously heaid it from

his wiio aiter the assasslaation. He had never had any persoaal

contact with OSWALD.

Sepsis Boutcas 7

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/12

139

PAGE

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 98

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6 Char

9. Silvia DURAN was reinterrogated by the Mexican police

from 27 to 29 Novezuez dui she dii not change or add materially

to hor story about OsWArD.

100L i know that to Cuza Ambasader i venico,

The

Cubar Goverament seat the Mericas Governmest a stif note o

protect, which the Mexicaas rejected.

Lovember

11. We are reliably informed that on 25 Seconds

day aiter DURANia release, Cubza FEedidoRa DOSTYCOS guerica

FERNANDEZ about lis scort, HERNANDEZ, conficmed that

there had beca, an aic-cation botween CSW4ID 21I Consul

AZCUE, DORTICOS made a percictent but unsuccessiul cfiort

to determine froz FERNANDEZ whethor tao Mexican authorities

bad questioned Mas. DUAN socut money, or thought that the

Cabana had paid OSWALD malay.

12. TO CIA follow-up investigation preduced she following

coxfirmed reaura

ta which have a bearing on les. DURAN's account:

27 September. In mid-aftesso02, Silvia DURAN

informed tho Soviet Embassy that a male Arcrican citizen

had requested a visa to transit Cuba on his way to the

119612:1

NG MOTICE

sEris!

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/13

PAGE

140 •г 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 99

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE:

**ID

E23203':

Soviot Union. Sho desiied to know wao the American had

cala visa so cho foriot Consulara, 1190, add lidicusd

that the Gusan Consulate conli gras him the visa and

arrange immigration details if tho conceasion of a Soviet

Mrisa were asaured.

127 Septembei, Dueuent to her equisy, Silvla

DURAN received a confirmation from the Sovict Robassy

that the American had besa io the USSR inatallation.

He

had showa chern a lotter from the Soviet Consulato in

Washingtos indicating that he hadbeen long gwaiting a

visa for himself and lis wife to go to the

• USSE. No

answer had come from Washingion; however, the waiting

period was somctimes lour oi five morths, The American

also had a letter attesting that le was a member of a pro-

Cuban organization but he had claimed that the Cubans

would no: give him a visa malesa ho had already received

a Inesian visa.

Alcborg to American w2a till at to Cult

Consulate,

RAN repeated that see douid not give

him a transit visa unless & Soviet vina was forthconsing,

notwithstanding tho Amesican's wish to go to Cusa to wait

Tie:

SE,

*SOURCES

ANG

METI COS INVOL 3A

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002014

PAGE

141 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 100

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

rad

there for his Sovict vist. According to DURAN, tha

appropriately sinotato the Americas's card. Ihe Soviet

achoed her statemen: that the Amorican was not

28 Septombor, Silvia DURAN was again visited

at the Cuban Embasty s Vicnico City by the America

secking a Cuban transi: visa. Mis. DURAN contacted at

least iwo members of the Soviet Inabiasy and ficilitatod

= diroct conversation betiveon one of the Saviets and the

American, Conversing is 200- Russias

, tac American

stated that ha al-cady had jeon 10 the Sovic: Consulate

and had lait an address. The Soviet aficial replied that

he was aware of that. The American sugrested test ho

had not known his addresa then, and he had gose to the

Cubaz Embassy to asl for the addresa, because they bad

It. The American then acceded to the Soviet sificial's

Invitation to come by and give them the address.

d. 1 October. In mid-morning as unidenstfied

individua, speakin

§'broken Rusciar, cortacted the Soviet

Villitory Attacho in Merico City. He said he had been to

WAM

162/103

SENSEAS

AKe

1225 NVOHE3

*Iss-.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G002/15

PAGE

142 •212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 101

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

.::

• :.

in it. 1'3

METROUS 14: -150

the Disbassy tho previous Setuday (28 Segierines) 4=1

had tallica with a Cousuf who had said toy would cord a

telegram to Washingtoan bad tiere been a Icoly? He

was teferred to the Condulate for the information.

Thesc additional materials were morantly disseminated in

Washington by due CIA to the Walic House dia Dozertmost de

State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigetion.

c. 1 October. See paragraph l above for lea

OSWALD's contact with the Soviet Consulatc.

I. Veloriy Viadimirovick KOSCICY

13. It is believed that the Soviet official wins

: whom

OSVAID dealt in Mesico City was Consular Aitache Valeriy

Vidimirovich KOSTIKOV, bon in Nioscow, 17 March 1933.

A photograph a KOSIIKOV is aitached. In his letter of

^ November to tae Soviet Consuate in Washington, OSWALD

we ote about bis lincetings with Comrade HOSTEN (sic) le Eie

Soviet Union in Mesico Citya Messico " Ihere is so afficial

a the Soviet Embasty la Mesico City with a name resembling

"KOSTIN", other

• then Consul KOSTISOV.

14.

KOSTIKOV is the senics cilicer of five Sovict

Consula representatives who deal with visas and related

IT SOURCES AND

NETHOOS INVOK

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/16

PACE

143

08 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 102

13-00000

(

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

& DIRECTOR

ROM & MEXICO CITY

ICTION. C/SR 5.

GS COPT

3)

RECORDS-OFFICER-STAYP

theirollowing action fo

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

Signed:

Start

WAS. ANCES NAHOTGLRTA

It destruction,

cite

reasons

and

coordinate

11 appropriate.

SECRET 240406Z

IMMEDIATE DIR

TE NEXI 7045:

I2A? REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

GLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1975

REF

DIR 84%

ELRRIMPDET CL BY 0122 05

PROVIDED

BELLOW

SUFFICIENILY DEFINITIVE SUMMART OF LOCAL

2 Noy 631967 281

supay

Tubp

1977I6R

CONTACTS IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFERIEV SUNLESS OTHERWISE STATED,

INFO FROM LIENVOY) • 18, 19, 23 NOV 60 CONTACTS WITH ENRIQUETA CONEL

OF GOM RE EXTENSION OF COURTESY PERMIT FOR SELF REMAIN IN MEXI.

10, 11 NOV 60 WITH FNU VARELA RE DELIVERY OF SUBJ'S FURNITURE.

•3" NOU 60 AND 7 MAR 61 WITH JUAN SEDILLO RE INSURANCE SUBJ CAR. .

•S NO 68 SERGIO DURAN OF NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK RE PICKUP

OF MONEY.. 14, 15 NOV HUMBERTO GONZALEZ RE PICKING UP NEW CAR.

25 -28 NOV SUBJ TREATED AT SANATORIO REFORMA SUSUALLY USED SY

SOUS BY WELL KNCUN LEFT IST DR. CARLOS NOBLE HOYO WHO USED

for FOIA Review on

FREQUENTLY BY SOVS.

23 DEG yITH THIRD SEC CUBAN CULTURAL ATTACHE

TERESA PROENZA RE ARRANGINE PRESS CONFERENCE FOR ROLANDO CUSELA

OF CUSAN FELL

18 FEB AND 28 MAR 61 WITH DENTIST DR.

Document Numbor

79-554

LESLIE VALERY FOR

APPOINTMENT FIX SON'S TEETH.

VALERY

201-289248

FREQUENTLY USED BY SOVS.

1 MAR ARRANGES MEETING WITH IGNACIO ACOSTA

LAGUNES, PROMINENT PRO COMMIE AIDE OF GEN LAZARO CARDENAS.

28

MAR THU FEMALE MANJARREZ PHONES CAPTOR MONITOR BELIEVES EE ANEN END

D: 200-5-41

.200.514

571

SECRET

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISUING OFICE IS PROHE NEV 65

• No.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/17

PAGE

COPY

144

of

212

NO.

---

## Page 103

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 57201_ PAGE 2

TALKS FAMILIARLY WITH SUBJ AND INVITES HIM TO PRESS CONFERENCE-DO.

TUPE AT HOTEL REFORMA WHERE A CUEAN TO SPEAK. 3 MAY WITH GUADALUES

PEREZ MACIA OF GOBERNACION RE OBTAINING CUNDETERMINED> VISA. 5

•JUNE AND & JULY DITI OSCAR SANTAELLA, FORD SALESMAN. I MUNE UDIN

JUAN GARCIA AND FNU PEREZ

OR OZ CO, DODGE SALESMEN.

2 AUG CALLS

ROCER OR ROBERT KAIZ OF "FRANCE FRESSE" TO INVITE TO SOVEMB PESS

COYFER ENCE.

Le MAY AND 16 JUNE 1962 CALLS EDMUNDO JARDON OF PRENSA

LATINA TO GET TOGETHER. 14 JUNE ASKS SPEAK WITH DR. GUILLER&O

MONTANO ISLAS, PROMINENT MEXICAN PRO CONNIE LEADER WELL KNGUN

HOS. 22 JUNE HE AND TASS REP ANATOLIY PAVLENKO INVITED TO LUNCHEON

BY MEXICAN PRESIDENT'S PRESS SEC HUMSERTO ROMERO. 25 SEP IS INVITED

TO LUNCHEON WITH DR. IGNACIO CHAVEZ, RECTOR AT UNAM. 3 DEC ACCEPTS

INVITE ATTEND BUFFET FOR PRESS ON BEHALF CARL J. HIDAIL, U.S.

NEWS AND WORLD REPORT. 23 JAN 63 HORACIO CHANCACLINI OF UNITED

NATIONS POSTPONES HIS APROINTIENT WITH SUBJ. 19 FEB FNU SABINO

CASRERA OF INSURANCE FIRM RE PAYMENTS.

8 MAR INVITES CANADIAN

NEWSPAPERMAN JOHN ALIUS IO SPAG DINNER.

M30 APR REQUESTS APPSINTHENS

WITH RICARDO POERY CERVANTES, PROMINENT LEFTIST JOURNALIST IN

-CLOSE FREQUENT CONTACE SOUS. 15 AND 17 WAY TÄLKS VITA NEW YORK

TINES REP PAUL KENEDY WHO INVITES SUBJ DINNER 26 BAY. 19 WAY

DIRECTOR OF VOZ DE MEXICO AND PCM CENTRAL CONMITTEEMAN MANUEL

TERRAZAS GUERRERO, ASKS SUBJ FOR SOV FINANCIAL SUBSIDY:: 23-BAY

SUBJ CALLS JOHN RETTIE (SEE MEXI 4743). 14 JUNE CALLS WELL KNOWA

LEFTIST OLEMENTINA BASSOLS TO INTERVIEW HER.

14 COT INVITES

END IQUE LOUBET OF EXCELSIOR TO SOVEME RECEFTION BEHALF COSMONAUTS,

maladio

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

00C2/18

PAGE

145 •3 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 104

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3(201

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

IN

PAG

14 COT. INVITES JAVIER SANTOS LORENT OF NOVEDADES TO JANG TR

30 OCT UNSUCCESSFULLY TRIES CONTACI CLERENTINA BASSOLS-

TRIES CONTACT RICARDO POERY CERVANTES,. IN AND

15 NOV ARRARSS3

VIRGINIA COMEZ, NIETO, LEFTISE AND PARAMOUR OF POERY.

SE C

R

E

C/S CONMENT: #- REQUESTED INFO RE TRAVEL VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH KOSTIKOY.

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G0C2/13

PAGE

COPY

NO.

146 • 212

---

## Page 105

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

zt a3jg

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTINE

OINDEX

EXT

DATE :

5613

D NO INDEX

25 Tor 63

OJ FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO

TORIS FEBUNS ECUSS

:

DEPASILNSET OF STARS ATIY: MR. D. ALDX

MR. U. ALAXTS JOHNSON

JEUBRAL, BURZAY OE INVESIIGATIOS

5P.OM :

T CEVIRAL INURTETGRNER ACRICT

CONS: C/WH 4

IFO : DCL, DDP,

(C/C1.2

VR*

3S S0PA

51

DEFERPED

ROUTINE

IMMEDIAT

TO

.INFO

CITE DIR

SNCERT/10 FCRSIC DISSSL!

85246.

SGEW3OT:

LÃE E. OSTALO

CI 26 SGYSAN

ÃR JOSS GUIITERMO AGUIRRE OF MEXICO TOLD JIEE FOLLOWING

IIZCEBANION DO PEISA MCRACÃ, UNTTISO STANTES INPORMIATIOR/GPTCISA IIS MESICO GETZ: .

AASTA RCORTCUE DE LOPSZ, SAID A SOI III LANI CE ISTE JARNESIO RCARIGUZ,

SEO LIVES II WEN CBIRATS WAS NOLI, ACOIAINISD HIMELES OSWAID.

SOr

III LAF IS À CUBAZ REO LIVES AS 212 JAYPERSÓN PAPRISA, ISH OREZANS,

TRh: VERTON 5-9658.

ARMESTO RODRIGUEZ, RUNS A SPANISE LANGUAGE SCHCOL

AIIS IS ANII CASIRO, ACCORDISE TO MARIA RODRIGUEZ DE LOPDZI HER' SON

II IAY IAS A TAYSO CONVISASATION WIEOCERANT Number 113-48

for FOIA Raview ón APR 1976

END OF MESSAGS

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUGTED ON 24 MAY 1978

= IMPOET CL BY.D1ZZ OK

C/S COMMENT: * DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT APFLOOR CABLES.

D:200-5-41

13.0027

201-289248

26M0v63

Anhits

JAEE ROHSE

C/нm/3C

CHEY

RELEASING

OFFICER

TATING OFFICERS

GROUP !

Exeluded from sulamatie

Ferrpracine aem

SECBET

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN,THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

Copy No.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C&( 2/ 20

PAGE

147 •.212

COPY NO:

---

## Page 106

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

TO

TR0S

3UDTECT:

SEGRET

DOC. MICRO. SER

MAY 1 5 1975

MICROFILMED

Director•

Federal SurawÔ1. Investigation

Attention:

ir: 1*, Dapich

: teputy Director (plans)

27/10063

87602

Fift

13: 15163. 16

fussines

201-315052

TICISRISY as reported by a ratiable source 11 larico City.

1853 (500 CiCi-3/173, 825, 25 Movember 1563).

ALTDRIY 127

ellad with X0sTII0Y to Northern lerico during the early part

of September 1963.

source reportad that during the period

under revier the obaerred activitien alECTINY and AlPAIsY

appeared to be soranl, aa did the sativitles ai the entire

Soviet abrasy conglemant.

Forwarded as Attachint. B 1s a resue o1 telephoze

calls placed to and fre the Soviet. Erbasay on tho afternoon

01 22 Novembar.

Analyala)of calls nace the soraing of

22 Noveaber and the mening aad aiteraóon of 23 Navember re-

realed no partient informatton gu

3. Technical 5177921

no ot the hones of several known

and suspoctod Soviet intelligence officars produced no perti-

nent intonation.

Forwarded as Attacient Cis a li3t Identifying the

Sovleta whose names appear 11 Attackents A and B.

Bacause of the extrene sensitivity of the encloaad

Izarnation, ve urge that the source data and the isformation

be given the nost secure handiing possiolo.

This Into nation

13 for background use only and say not be dissentsated yitbout

permiasion fron this Agency.

RECORD COPY

Document Number

187-622

for FOlA Reyiew on

APR 1976

C3C1-3/773,881

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED CN 24 MAY 1975

IMPOET CL BY CI22

SECRET

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

27 fiantz

201-289248

C002 21

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

148 0 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 107

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-

SEGRET

NO FOREION DISSEM

iH/3/uexico/Terry Fard:ard

Distribution:

оті§.

*I- Addressee

RI (201-299243)

1 - CIALIA

1 - CI/LLA

CI/SIG

27 Novenber 1363

BASICS:

YET -7050

13X] - 7038

3IX 7036

MEXI - 7034

30XI-7032

NO PROJECT

(IN 07292)

(IN 67253)

(IN 67337)

(177 67231)

(IN 67198)

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6002/22

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

149 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 108

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Enclosure A

18 November

0857 - AlLeriev enters Embasay alone (Departure not noted)

1556 - Jostskor enters lione

1629 - Joation degarts alone

1556

Sostiboy entera alone

1711

→ sostikoy departs alone

1759 - Kostikon enters alone

19 Hovamber

1210 - Alforley enters Eabrasy alone

1312 - Alferiev departs with Garmasche

1352 - Allerion and Carnaschey retura

1413 - Tostitor departs alone

1833 - Alterter enters alone

(cos departure not noted)

1653 - Jost1ke jenter's a1030

20 November

No coverage

31 November

0853 - Alferior entora Sabill Fita mi1o

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6082/23

PAGE

150 0712

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 109

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S9003T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

0916 - Kostizov enters alone

0917 - Alferier departs alone

0949 - Alferier enters alone

1133 - Kostikoy departs with Shubin

1206 - Alferley departa alone

1240 - Joatlion enters with Shubin

1310 -Tostikoy departs incar driven by KGS chauffeur Saltata

1341 - Toatlaoy enters with allain

1353 - Alterior

entors alone

1427 - Kostikov departs alone

1630 - Kostikov enters alone

22 November

0353 - Alferior enters Labassy alone

0904 • Kostilor enters alone

1005 - Kostikov has discussion with Shubin

1015 - Koattkor departs with Shubin

1028 - Kostikov enters 'with Shubin

1030 - Kostitor departs with

/wife and Shubis

1250 - Rostiso

wife and Shibin return

13021312 - Kostkoy speaks 1n garden with Kazantser

1336 - Jostlkoy departs with Shubin, Shpakerich, Turygis,

driven by Kalinin

1402 - All above return

STONET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002.24

PAGE

151

COPY NO.

0212

---

## Page 110

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO POPPIN MESSES

1403 - Kostilor talking ta garden ith alleriev, aadreyer,

and Furycto

1402 - Mostlior departs

in car with lan1ly

2433 - 11sertey uparts alone

1435 - Alferfer enters

1503

•Tirestor depart atone

1517 - Allerten, enters alone

1539 - jostikor

enters alone

23 November

1130 - Lostizor speaks with Kazantsey and Shuble

1133 - Rostikoy departs with Kazantsay and Stubin

1200 - Alteriler enters alone

1240 - Jostlion, Kzintsey and Shubig enter

1410 - Kostikov plays volleyball witan

Vatskov, Stublo,

mazantser, Forkhunov, and Strag nov

1425 - Kostizov spea, 3)

anubin and Slavnov

1420 - Kostikov departs With Siubin and tonichenko

1440 - Alteriev departs alone

21 November

1100 - Alleriev enterg: Enbassy alone

1207 - Kostlov enters wiShip and Shubin

NO FOREIGN DISSET

6002/25

PAGE

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

152 0 212

---

## Page 111

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1:

1326 - Alferiev departs with-Stengalev

1110 - Alretter entery with Strensaley

1110 - Aranoisontitor, Kantser and & unidentified

oviet vialtorg: depart (A's car

SESTET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/26

PAGE

153

• 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 112

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEURST

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Eaclosure 13

-Ly 32 ioveber coverage of Soviet inbassy po.zal.

111 22 November coverage follows:

1250 = Cuban Consul Altrado Mirabal liaz asis to speak

ults intskov..

Lotter apparently unavailable and

Koatikom comes on 11se with following converestion

SOS: Forstreau sor arriving late.

HIS: Did you recover the suitense?

• KOS: Jes

HIn: Then 1t was arriving on the otber trip..

KOS: Yes

MIR:

I called to tell you the following, that regarding

that matter that we had talked about, to see 11

re would spend Sunday in Chapultepec Part because

my wiie 1s preparing sone food to eat there.

KOS:

I'm sorTy but l've just mde plans for another

trip and I'm leaving this very day.

So please

Lorgive ne for not belag able to go mith you.

BaD;

I°d 11ke to tall to Pavel Tatsiar.

SOS:

wait a sinute,

HIR:

It bag lusy I'lS callina later; but I'll be

available for the

next half hour at telophone

1io. 11-22-47.

80S: 0. 1.

1334 - Reporter requests statement. Unidentified Soviet

nale refuses.

1323 - Penale Irpiles to fukbarenko that the Soviet. Abbassador

has said to nake no atatement.

1445 - Yugoslay Antassados Tahoy calls and speaks vith Soviet

Ambassador Barror ly massian.

Talk briofly about

assaratuation tes each other what they know, which

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G002/27

PAGE

154 0₽

212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 113

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

NO FORCION DISSEM

appears to be only that they dot iros the radio.

1550 -ünidentitled Woman advises Sovieta 01 essassination.

1652 - Intder tried lole reporter told Soviet Insassy not

varilay today, Saturday 2r sunday.

172S - laporter calls for statenant. rosa given.

• Kazantser calls sis residence, personal: call.

1711 - Reporter lold to call back bonday.

1750 - laidentlilou sale asis for Iconor.

Hot 1n.

1735 - 2b0ve calls again

- Reportar told call back onday...

NO FORTION DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/28

PAGE

155 0212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 114

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

skhohl

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

AITACINEIT C TO CSCI-3/773,381

1 Ivan Cavrilovich ALFERIEY

~?rnvia Corcespondent

2. Jaleriy Vladirirovica KOSTIICY - Attacbo Consular Olfico

3. Aleisay Ivanovich CAlLiSCHy - Consul

1. vitally Bartaovieh Stuaty

Ne Wiao

- Attacao

S. Tuêny marurtyentch aMina

- Chaufzeur

7. Vadiair

8. Madinir Ivanorich AJDRTYZY - first Secretary

9. Madiair Vasilyovich TURYGIN - Thisd Secretary

10, Pavel Antonovica YATSROY

- Attache

11. Vladintr PORZAWYOV

- Code Clark

12. Gennadiy STROGANOY

• Radio Operator

13. Niolay Fetrovich stAVhoY.

...- Code Clerk

15 V1IdIa1I SOVANCHENRO-

- Second Secretary

15, LeY FedorOTiCh SEENGALSY

: Eaployee, Comsercial

0211c9

16. Oleg HaLsinOrIeh NECHLPOBENIO - TICO CORSul

17. Sergey Semyonovich KUXZARENEO - Socond Secrataty; So

viet Inforation

bullettn

18. . Nikolay Sergeyevich INDNOY - Third Secretary

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

0002/ 25

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

156 •r 212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 115

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SCRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

22 lorenior coverage of Soviet inbussy norsal.

721

22 Havences coverage followay

1250 - Cuban Corsul Alfredo Mirabal Liaz saks to spari.

F1th Fataron:

latter a parently univailable and

ensuang fanillar fosa

808:

FORAVALDE 1OI aTTIVIDE laZO.

113:

Did you reemer the suitcase?

KOS: Yeg

U17: Then 1t vas arriving on the other taip

K03: Fes

• called to tell you the iollowing, that regarding

that miter tiat ve to talked a-0u..

to see 11

we would spend sunday la Chapultepee

Part becausa

Iy WIle ls IreDNing-soe josd to eat tbera.

ICE:

I's sorry bat llve just sade plans: for anothes

trip and l'a lasting this very day.

So please

105giTe DE 105 not being able to go wita you.

HIB;

30S:

MIA:

J'a lize to tale to paval ratsion.

Fait a minute, to'll sore son.

I1 he's busy I'll call his later, Lut Iº11 te

available jor the next half hour at telephone

i0. 11-2847°

¡tos: D. fo

133% - Esporter requests statementy Unidentilled Soviet

pale refuses.

1533 - Penale talies to fuchurenra Coat the Soviet Aajasoador

Is sald to make so stater

1445 • 1490517 A

sander Manor calls and spoals vith Soviet

Ambasaador

Ta 24

Talk Srielly about

2562a9113t123

Mag each other wint they know, which

SE22E

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

60026 36

PAGE

157

05 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 116

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREION DISSEN

appears to be only what they got from the radio.

1350 - Unidentified

woman advises Soviets of assassination.

1644 - Unidentified reportet

asks for kazantsev,

advised

that Kazantsey not ta, will be back Honday, 0930-1400.

1615 = Tal deatst red malo delo for tubarenio, told be lan't

1652 - Unidentified fenale'reporter told Soviet Inbassy not

working today, Saturday or Sunday.

1716 - Reporter calla for statement. Mona given.

- Kazantsev calls hia residence, personal call.

1744 - Reporter. told to call back Monday.

1750 - Unidentified male asks ior leonor.

Not in.

1755 - above calls again

- Reporter told call baci donday.

NO FOREIGN BIRSEL

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/31

PAGE

158 ≤ 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 117

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECHET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SITICEIRNT C TO C5CI-3/773,381

I. Ivas Cavr1lonich ALIZISY

~Iraysa Correspondent

2 Faleriy Tladiatrovich KO3TIIOY - Attacbe Cozsular Office

3. Al0bse5 Ivanorich GARliScasY

w.Coxsal

1o T3tal{8, Bortsovica smusra

• Attache

5. Turty 2astelyprdda IALIMIS

- Chau?lour

5. BOrLa AlalisaadrOrICs IAZAITSS7 - COURseIOs

7. Mladinlz ITaovich SEPAKYICI - Third Soerotary

8. ThadialI ITADOVICh AMRITY. - F1I9t Sacretajy

I. Madiat Vasilyovich TIRYGIY - Third Secrotary

10. Pavel Aatenovich YAISKOY

• Attacho

11. Vladiats PORATUTOY

- Cods Clerk

13.

Geunadly STROGALCY

• Radlo Cperator

13. 11301ay Petrovied StAVaOT

- codo desis

14. MadialI ACUASCHCONO

- Second Secratasy

15. Lor Pedorovici SISAGAY

_Inploree, Cosmercial

0111c0

oleg rakstaovieh iscutorsnso

17. sergoy Soayonoriea dsaieno *Tico Consai

_ socond Secrotary; so

yet Intomation

18. Flbolay Sorgeyanich LE0n0Y

2311935

.- Thind Secrotary

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/ 32

PAGE

159

of. 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 118

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

VA.

•3769

23 JU:..

MEMORANDUN FOR!

Mi. J. iod Bankin

Cencral Counsel

Prosident'a Commission on tha

Assassination of Prenident Kensedy

SUBJECT:

HoerHarvey Oswald

Wallet

1, Mi. James V. Ilobelar of your staff phonca me laot

Friday and requested that CIA furnich tie Commiasioz with an

affleavit repocting the origin and circumstancos of a photograph

í an uninown ladividuat which was fumluhed by this Agency to

the Federal Burnu a Lavestigation on Novuzber 226 1963.

forwarding an aifidavit with tale memorandum

which I trust will satisly your necis. Docause of tho extremo

'onnitivity of the source lavolved, I have roiralaad from acuing

furthor detalls.

3. Che Central Intelligonce Agoncy recommenós tiat :

thla protograph not be reproduced in thu Commiesion's report,

because it would jeopardiso a moat confidential and productive

operation,. In addition, li could be embarracing to tao india

vidual Involved who as far as tula Agoncy is awarc, hau no

connection with ice Harvay Onwald or the nananaination of

Prasident Kennedy.

4. In vlaw of the above, a sensitivity indicator has been

affixed to thia comramnication.

Richard Heleas

Deputy Director for Plana

Attachment = a/s

SECRET

WARTHE NONCE

SENSIT,':

ACES AND

•= 10701.90

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

60021 33

PAGE

160

of 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 119

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGNET

Distrlbution:

Orlg & 1 • Addresace

2 - DDP

1 - CT/R&A/Oswald 201

1 - CI/R&A/Dooley

1 - WH/Waltton

CI/R&A/Dooleyipra

PRsoiE e ver1364

SEGNET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CỪL 21 34

PAGE

161 212

COPY

N0.

---

## Page 120

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

SECRET

EYES ONLY

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiel, CRet

SUBJECT:

Documents Available in OSWALD's 201 File

I. A maching listing of documents officially recorded as being

in OSWALD's 201 file wasfrequested and is attached. The actual

machine work of this type was begun in 1963, but a few items of previous

dates were also recorded.

2. A comparison of the documents physically available in the

201 file and those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37

documents which should be in the 201 file are not available in it. This

total is made up of:

2 dispatches

7 memoranda from the FBI

1 CSCI

2 State Department documents

25 cables.

3. Machine inquiries for the location uf these documents have

not been made.

Document unba 5'63-810

keep

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

trilly

Pes.

corset

the

iwa

1201

SECRET

• EYES ONLY

COC2r 35

PAGE

162

212

of

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 121

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Rentin's

1h5?

111:00

Rackin's 86-

Attachnent

Mr. do Joe Ranior

Hould you please be guad enough to tele

phone ne on Manday, l larch, by which ting I

assun you will have had an opportunity to

glancerat

a: material

Richard Heins

6 March I9Si,

SPERST

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

L002036

PAGE

COPY

163 • 212

NO.

---

## Page 122

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

4.1224

XAAZ-22595

& Mar 6.4

MEMIORANDUM FOR: Ma. J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT:

"Infoutation in ClA's POssesSion

Prior to November 22, 1963 a:

to Darren Commissia

This refers to your letter of February 12,

addressed to the Director of Cestral Intelligence which cas

Sees passed to me for reply?

Paragrapi three of your letter requested the Agency

to supply the Commission with a report on isformation in the

Agercy's possession regarding ee tarvey Cowain pria to

¡overber 22, 1963. T'be request was predicated upos the

footaote on page tro of CIA's report to the Commission dated

31. January 1964, entitled: "Inismation Developed by Cli on

the notivity of Lee Harvey OSVAID in Mexico Gity, 23 Sez-

teraber - 3 October 1963:

m These is attached as exact reproduction af the

gessy's cificial doseier) on Lee Harvey OSWALD begianing

with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960. The entice

dossier carries the seerrity classification of Secret aza

consists al thirty documents arranged in chronological order.

On the basis of clearances froz the Federal Bureau of

Investigation, the Department of State, the Depa-tzent of

Mavy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Services

were queried by us aiter the receipt a your lestor, waate

able to maice available exact copies of all materials in tie

file up to early Cctober 1963, These incide:

Document Number

590-252

for EOlA Review on

JUN 1976

004 9

ATT.

Transmitteel

201-257245

6 Mault

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(002037

PAGE

164 0:212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 123

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

a. Seven documents received from toe Fedaral

Bies of tave i see

b. Ten documenta received from the Department

of State.

Iwo documents received from the Department

One document (a name check request) for the

Immigration asd Naturalization Service.

e. Four newspaper clippings.

fo Five internal CIA notes.

8. CIA report dated 3l Jânday 1964 to the Commission

which covers all suntantive developments alfecting GIA

in the matter of Lee Harvey OSWALD frosa 9 October to

22 Noverner 1963.. The report indicated the disseminatios"

al information developed by ClA that vere sade to other

Federal agencies during that period. This iter, as was

pointed out at the time, is particularly sensitive and bears

appropriate sensitivity isdicators.

You will note that alrost all of the docussesta carry

sassings reguired for ClA's internal records processing. A

few of the papers contained the races di our employees or

identifications el specific organizational components. Vie have

taken the liberty of blocking out these iteras as they do not bear.

on the substance of the Commission's request.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment

Original & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP Subject.

1 - DOP Carones COPY

• 1 - C/WH/3

1: 201-289248

CI:RGRocca:de /7468/4 March 1964 (Inventory of documents contained

in file attached for all but addressee)

201-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

ü2r 38

PAGE

COPY

NO.

165 09 212

---

## Page 124

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

laventory of Docurents C the no mi VALD Doaster Forwarded

:, 1.1. State Jelegram Nor 1305, October 31, 1959 (Confidential) V

•~/2. Newspaper Article fróm the Washington Post, November l, 1959

* YV3. CI/ISN Internal Note dated ? November 1959 foral FBI name

Check request) and NR reply dated & November 1959 (Confidential)

Foreiga Se

artzee Despateh 234, November 2, 1959 (Confidential)

• 1 J5, State Telegram 1358, November 9, 1959 (Confidential)

1, 1b. Stato Telegrams 1148, November 9, 1959 (Confidential)

* 1. Newspaper Clipping from Washington Post, November 16, 1959

N8. Newspaper Clipping from Ivening Star, November 26, 1959

+ 09 DBS 49478, 25 May 1960 (Confidential)

- 230. Internal CIA Biographie Profile dated circa May 1960 (Confidential)

* 11, Letter from the Department af State (Gumming) to DDP (Bissell)

dated October 25, 1960 (DD/P 0-5679 - Secret)

+ 12. Dosadad intered 21 November 1960 (DD/$ 0-6003 -

Secret)

' Vi3. Internal CIA Request for Opening a 201 file, 9 December 1960

(Secret)

i J14. State Memorandum of Conversation dated January 26, 1961 (OUO)

y J15. State lastruction A-273, April 13, 1961 (OUQ)

- Л6.

Foreign Service Despatch 806, May 26, 1962 (OUO)

1%. Foreiga Service Despatch 29, July 11, 1961 (OUQ)

÷ 18. DFB 82181, July 13, 1961 (Confidential) -

ATT. l. t6: XAAZ-22595

ES COPY

201-289248

L0L2E33

PAGE

166

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

08 212

---

## Page 125

13-00.000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

X442-22575

E Man 64

•/19. Internal CIA Memo for the Record, 28 September 1961 (Secret)

1 120. Fareign Service Despatch 317, October 12, 1961 (OUO)

LIENS Name Gheck Request, December 5, 1961

/22. Navy Massage 20197/RB/3, 3 March 1962 (Confidential)

¿ 123. DNA 1624, 26 April 1962

~ 124. Newspaper Clippiag from Washington Post, June 9, 1962-

1: -25. DBA 20883, September 7, 1962 (Confideutial)

*126. DBA 51407, 10 September 1963

" 227, DBA 52355, 24 September 196g ole i

,28. DBA 55715 (luable clear), November 7, 1963*

• J29. DBA 55777, November: 8, 1963

× 130. CIA Summary Report on Activities af OSWALD in Mexico City,

dated 31 January 1964

GS COPY

201-259248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

J002040

PAGE

167 08 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 126

13-00000

(

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EXT

DATE

Erica W. Isenstead:br

C/EE/G

D INDEX

7858

$ NO INDEX

5ar 1964

DJ FILE IN CS FILE NO.

RYBAI SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROMMITED

ROUTING

4

5

& JaH 64

19 452

BERLIN

FRANKFURT

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

C/sH 4

iNFO: ECI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/CI/SI,. VR

DEFERTE CENT

A ROUTINE

TO

BRIN

INFO:

FRAN

CITE DIR

92725

RE: BRLN 5267 (IN 90848)

IN VIEW REGGAB CONNECTION MARINA OSWALD HEADQUARTERS

DOES NOT DESIRE LONG-RANGE OPS INVOLVEMENT SUGGESTED PARAGRAPH

3 REF.

Document Number

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *Reggab has number complex financial, documents and

personal problems which leading him consider return to Moscow for further

study in cinematographic institute. Believe he would definitely return it

encouraged by us and that he susceptible to recruitment as KUBARK agent

duting Moscow sojourn and possibly as long range asset in Morgeee,

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON.

25 MAY 197

456-771

action

IMPDET CL BY D/ 32.08

Ics FOld Review on

MAY 1976

D-200-5-41

Signed:

R.0. #1 - Unit

C/R+A

Ken

Note:

Is destructior,

201-289248

cite

reasong and coordinate

DC/CI

It latropriate.

Taracu

ADDP

RELEASING OFFICER

NATING OFFICERS

CROUP !

Encluded from automatic

downzrading and

declassification

RYBAT SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

0002/41

PAGE

168 0212

COPY

NO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 127

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22641

MENORANDUM IOR: M5. J. Lee Rankin

SUBISCI:

Reposts on Activities ari Travei

Mariba Nisalavza CSHALD as Trausnileel

Liarren Cimmissica

la Reference in madé to the second paragrapà a your

meror alum dated 12 February 1964, and the second para-

graph'of your memorasdur al 16 Marca 1964, relative to

disseminations bi information made by CIA to the Secret

Servico.

• Immediately aiter the assassination of Presideat

Ilennedy Cis undertook to assemole through its attioes is

Eurose all avalable data, including inforsation in the illes

of sther goveruments azd intelligence services, on tbe

traveis and activities a Les Harvey OSwALD and Marira

NikOlevIa OSTAID, This information, as lt vas collected,

was made available to the White House, the Departzent.of

State and the Federal Jureau o Investigation, Copies of

these messages werm also sent to the Secret Service.

3a Attached to this memorandum are exact copiea or

two teletyped mesaages relative to the travele and activities

of tha OSWALD: (tachments A and B).

Paragrapas g and h

al Attachent C are paraphrased. In Attachment 6, OUT

Teletype No. 85715, are found references to two other tele-

typed messages (OUT No. 85182 and OUI No. 85665) which

describe one Richard Thoras GIBSON, a negro jourralist

88 0091

for FOlA Roview on

JUN 1976

Dooumont Number

627-8

B 201743808

5 ATTS. Mile

RESTRICTED TO CI/RIA

31-MAK 196Y

201-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/42

PAGE

169 0$212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 128

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

now residing in Switzerlasd who has been active in the Fair

slay for Cuba Committee.

Paraphrases of No. 35132 and

No. 85665 are included aa iltagazanta Dasd I, acceas to

original testa a paraphrased itams will be provided whas

nembers of your stall visit bangley. The information on

which paragrapks g and h d Attachment C a-s based was

received at GIf Headguarters on 27 November and disserai-

rated on 28 November.

has thosefore been affixed.

Richard Hels

Dejuty Director fcr Plans

Allachrents

as stated

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee w/atts

1 - DDP Chrono w/atte

DDP subject w/atts

* - Mr. Rocca watts

1 - C/CI/SIG wYatts

1 - C/WH/3 w/atts

1 - 201-

GI/R&A/IRHall/6664/26 March 1964

0S 6577

-2-

201-29÷245

6002/43

PAGE

170

. of 212

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 129

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment A

Teletype message, OUT No. 36702, dated 4 Dacezzber 1953,

filed at 1411 hours, to the White Fiouse, the Department of

State and the f'ederal Bureau a Investigatios, with copy to the

Secret Servise.

АТТ. :

SUBJECT: Lea Harvey OSWALD

Recorda of the foreignery recorda office of the Gerinas

Federal Reprolis in Gologne, Germany, show that Marine

Nisolayevna Pusakoya CSWALD crossed West Germany Stora

East Gormany to Holland on 3 Juza 1962.. She traveled by rall,

crussig into West Germany at Fielmstedt on 3 June and enter-

ing Hollasd by rail at the Bentheirs crossing point. Sha had

Vi est Germas visa 694/62 issued at the West Germany Embasay

in Moscow, She listed ber fisal destination as U.S.A. Cormert:

This confirms information from the U.S. Imbassy la Moscow

to the efiect that the OSWALD family taveled from loscow lo

' Rotterdam by rall aroudd 3 June, 1962. Helmstedt and Berthein

are on the sain rail xoute from Russia to Rotterdam. While

Lee CSTALD himself asd their infant daughter are not recorded

in German recorda this is probably because little attention is

pail to U.S. citizens and to irfants in keeping travel records.

З1-MАR-19L4

63 0077

XAAZ-2240

291-259245

C002r44

PAGE

171 • 212

COPY No.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 130

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Icletype message,. OUT No. 87520, dated ó December 1953,

filed at 1329 hours, to the "hite House, the Departsent oi

Staio and the f'ederal Bureau d Isvestigation, with copy to the

Secret Services

- Reference la rade to our CUI telegraca No, 36732 of

4 December 1563 which gave information on the travel ai

Maris OSWALD (and presumably also loo liaryoy ioWALD

an1 ¿heir daugates) acroda leat Gerrsary on their retura

from the Soviet Union, Iformation now available f or Ezeb

authoritiea seems to confirta this. On 3 Juna 1952 one

M. CONALD, listed as a sale Russian citisen, exered The

Netherlands by train at the Oidenraal bosder poist

Comment: It is believed that the listing of this persoa

as a male instead o ferale was just au error of the border

afilcials. Note that Oldetaial is ppposite Bentseirs, ine

German border paist where Varina CS" AID isit Gezzary.

C3 OSPY

31-1614R-1964

201-289245

ATT. 2 t. XANZ-22<01)

6002/45

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

172 or 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 131

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

dia-lane C

Teletype message No. 85713, dated 39 November 1963, filed

at 13:0 howa, to the White House, the Department of State aod

che Foderal Bureau of Investigation, wits copy to the Secret

Service.

ATT.. 3

to.

Io Tas following

information has beez gathered from

feliabla soureas regarding toe travel of Lee Harvey CHALI

and aig wia:

do 2 October 1959: According ta official

British travel recorda CS NALD arrived in

Soutbarapton this date claloisy on his Lasdinge cärd

tiza: he had no fixed address but planned to remain

in the United Kingdom one week for vacation before

going on to "some school"' in Switzerland, (Head

quarters comment: Probasly referring to the

Alert Schweitzer Callege in Switzerland with which

he is isnowa to hava been in correspondence.)

Do 10 Octobes 1959: According to the same

oficial British travel records CSWALD left London

this date by air for Helsinki

63 GSPY

XAAZ: 22661

201-257248

31-MAR =1964

G0L2/46

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

173 0s 212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 132

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Ca Cotobes 1959: Stocksoim sewspaper, Dagers

Nrizetes, of 25 Novembe: 1763 states Lee CSTALi

passed through Sweden during Cctober 1937. Article

Ladoo adda PatiONALI was unsuccessful in cutairiag

Madiso do ta ta belind which resulted in bis

returzing to Stockhoin. Two days after 29 arrived in?

Stockholms OSVALD traveled directly to mioacon.

Canciuding sestesce a articla states "This Lodicates

that the Russian Embassy (Stocchoizo)eave lic a visa.,"

Accordiog to a reliablo source ther

no record

that there was azy request for a USS& visa processed

through norsal chansel for SWALD at any liza

during 195), and source indicated it was dificult to

explais how CSWALD migit bave received his visa in

two days without going through normal chamels. The.

onig concision wbich can be drawa is that SWAID

must have received his visa directly from toe Soviet

Embassy in Stockhaim which occasionaly is done in

special cases

but the source bad so evidence to corfira

this assumption

"?-

6002847

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

174 0212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 133

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

¿. 10 to 15 October 1957: According to a very :

reliabls but extremely sensitive Source OSA LD stayed

at the Iorni Hotel in falsinki from 10 to 11 Octcber and

on moved to the klaus Kurti Hotel where be stayed

until 15 detes, apparently waiting for a visa ta be

issued him by the Soviet Consulato in Helsinid. Fio

traveled to the USSR by traiz, crossing at Valrilala on

15 October.

e. 13 May 1962: According to a Dutch afficial

source, the Dutch Charge in Moscow issued a transit

ViSa to OSWALD's Wile 27 13 diage 2962, Tacie recorda

¡eveal bia wise was bara on 17 July 19e

Lestoad af

19 Jaly 1941 and in Severoivisa's instead of binsk.

There is no record of ber having actually transited

The Nether lands.

fo 1962: Official British secords do not reflect

that CSWAID returned to the United States from the

USSa through the United Kingdoms Howeves, If So

were merely transiting, it would not bave been

necessary for hirs to fill out a landing card, and

therefore there would be no record of his travel in

the official traffic intes.

6002148

PACE

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

175 • 212

---

## Page 134

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

g- 1963: According to an estremely sensitive ad

reliable source, on 23 November Maria SNETHLAGE,

head of the 'iterkgroup Iformatio Cuba" (Workgroup

Incarnation usa, toll an employes al to Cubas

Imbassy in The Hagus that she was aure size had met

"that Mi.

LEE la Havara, who dia the suriers. 5ho

descried him as a man o violence and entirely full si

hate and indicated that it was possible that this man had

sees misused by a group, She said sha bad written to

'GIBSON" about the bad impression sha bad bad of tbia

LEE. (Headguarters comment: Please refer to our

teletype Nos. 85182 asd 85665 for aciditional information

03 GIESCH,) Later, SNETHLAGI toid Casteo Gubans

La The Hagne that "MI, LSE of the Fair Play for Cuba

Coruittee: had been slardered and that it was anoth

person Damed Loe OSWALD Who had done it StETHLAGE

seemed to be glad to have heard this "correct" version.

(Headquarters comment: bir. LES may be idantiezl with

Vincent Theodese In who replaced Richard GIBSON as

Head of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee.)

6062/49

PAGE 176 01212

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 135

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

b. According to reliable ine

ration, SNETHLACE

as in Guba in Jamary 1263,, and accordiag to an efficial

Dutch source, sue agala traveled in Cuba for the May Day

celebrations y

43 BO/

-5-

261-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002850

PAGE

177 0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 136

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment D

Teletype No. 85132, dated 2Z November 1963, filled at 1932 hours,

to tho White House, the Departraent of State and the F'ederal

Bureau of Investigation, with copy ta the Secret Sarvice. (parapirasa)

SUSJECTE Led FarTey OMAlD

1o I conversation with a clone friend la Bara,

Switzerland, on 23 November 1963, Richard Thoraa GIBSON

remarked that OSWALD is 'One d un' CSHALD and GESCN

bad corresponded two years previoualy, ant OSAID had

joised the Cosmittoo, (Comest: Referenco is presumably

to the Fair Play for Cuba Caradiltos.! GIBSON added tiat ho

bad destroyed all bis letters from OSWALD. OSWAID is

crazy, GIBSOlt ten remarked that he la happy that he was

not in New York. He felt sorry for "IEZ" in New York and

fOr "TISe"

2. The information given above was supplied by an

estremely sensitive source who is usually reliable.

3. According to other information that was availzole,

Richard Thomas GIBSON, bors 13 Nay 1931 in Los Angeles,

California, is a segro joursalist who has beenactive is tsa

31-1111-1564

ATT. + To. XAAZ. 22401

20:-259248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0CC2/51

178 0 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 137

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Fair Play for cula Commister Bingo 1760.

He has resided

since April 1763 at Laurenne, noterlard, la this lastor

Revolution Africaine

Phu

IS OSA

-2=

201-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002052

PAGE

179 •s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 138

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Atta-brent E

Teletype message, OUT No. 35665, 29 November 1963, filed

at 1826 hours, to the White House, the Departmert of Stata asd

the Federal Sureau of Investigation, with copy to tise Secret

Service, (paraphrased)

1a Our station la Ihe lague bas reported liat as

23 Noverber 1%63, a local Castroite named Maria SNETHLAGE

told Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS of the Cubar Izbassy in

The Fagus that she Inew the 'M.. LOE" (sic) uno murdered

'residest Kennedy, Sha described "'Liz" as a man full of hate

and violence, add speculated that he had sees "misused by a

FouD", She said sho had velites to GISSON (undoubtedly

Sickard GIBSON,

USe citizes aí Lausanné, Svitzer larel, bora

13 May 1935, a GastO SUchder, who had visitsd I's

Netherlanda recertly and had been in contact buth witle the

Soviet Ambaasador and the Cuban Irabassy)

2. Later tbat sasse day liaria INSTHLAGE told Secretary

SANTCS that "JI. LEI Of the Fai, Play for Cuba Committee"

jad been slandered. The assassin had been another person.

LiCO OSWALD. SNITHLAGE is reported to have been in Cuba

in Jamary and again in lizy 1963.

G3 0027

31-1lAn-1761

201-259245

ATT. 5 t: XHAZ -22601

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CC02/ 53

PAGE

180

- os 212

COPY MO.

---

## Page 139

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3. According to Dutch authorities on 7 Noverzber 1963,

in saling about attacis by Cuan I ciugees against the Jubas

maiziand, EANTOS lad replied | just wait aad you will see shat

we can do, i will happen sooz Asiod to be moze precis,

%. & very sensitive source reporta that atcr lis conver

sations with SNETHLAGE, SANI CS was very angry because ske

had contacted him.

-ES GOPY

201-251248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/54

PASS: 181

COPI NO.

212

---

## Page 140

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEBNET

WARNING NOTICE

SENS

SOURCES A.

METHODS INVOLVED

cap 4-2544.

XAAZ-.17620

MEMOHANCUL FOR: M?.J. Lea Razin

General Coural

Posaliants Lorralanicu sa tho

dasassinitian o! Fresidant Kartary

00754-4

alagallona Sagerding Inligence Fraising

School is winsk, USaB as Transmitted

Warren

Commission

Ungasions ai the ristorce of a Soviet intellignaca sad/or

sanchage training sabool in Milaos, 0303, have coma to tha

nitanion of sas Agency irera pra3a sevlert, Also, bare has

Jaes an ininomal ingairy loom: sember of tas Cocuoissioa,

#i-Julles, very racently da sis datall. 1 cadio dia epportarity

to farnisia to tha Cosianion tire incormation peich the Agesiy

has on this topie.

carpin roylon of JLi iles bas prodecad no har

intonnation regarding Soviat intoliganca os cabotaga training in

Miss cinca 1947. Cna lom ai islormation supplias by = Goviet

¿oíceros ia 1919 reportos the mittence, as of 1947, of sa latelligence

Erstaing school is Minas. No additional detaila, boreror, were

azallable rogaring its carpiculam oz location la Minsk, infercastien

deTcloped Iras out nonrees Gine 1919 h33 s0l contiona, confirmed.

or corroborted tao continuad existenes of the installation.

Pa: FOlA Review on

JUN 1975

Anchor reference in CI: Ales to trateing is Minas relAtes

to ta: existence of a sabotago schoes shich functioned la Minal until

tao Cormon sitack on the Solet Unien in 1941, sfor weich the school

was norad to centagrad.

Document Number 226-314

200:5

T9073%

5 Jam 64

SECRET

-201-229248

200

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SCURCES AND

Chute 1

Excluded la1 colma::

Homang,

METHODS IVOLED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/ 55

PAGE

182 01

212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 141

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

* Thisa tus lama of injarriation are the sly 13% in t

pouscasion di thin Agaucy miting so mouligaes sod sabotaga

Donauty of SA942841494027953

isoland, li sis beaapesosapes ara sensitivity lilcaton

PROTE

7°726

Richard Bein

Deputy Discetor (02 F1a28

Distzibasin:

2 - DOP

1

- 38/01/2

1 - S/C1/513

1-C/C/R33

1 - CH/Ran/TRiall

1 - C1/R&÷/301

Originatad Dos Cl/RBA/5RRlallsai|6664, #Juna 1964)

SEGNAT

201-273246

206: 5

41

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

MET:096 :

"132

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002456

PAGE

COPY NO.

183 •1212

---

## Page 142

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

16 December 1963

3E 209

& XE

2anar

nanitoai

Santa Staron (Dian)

tres 2eae?

tantes

the cortei (7i0 1551

• Te the montrends

meter siti

pode tento

506/02235

12 Dechter 1509

Distardatica

213

16H05H

1) TECID

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002r57

PAGE

COPY

184 0g 212

NO.

---

## Page 143

1,3-000.00

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEO

C5C7-3/779,

135

TO

Director

Federal Burem of Investigation

Attentica: HI. S. i. Papich

FICH

: Dopty Director (PLeas)

SUBJECT : POLE DERABI"s Coments:on the kenedy Assantantiaa

Attachat for your periel are the written coments of Kea

dorector Peter DiETABIY: on Bose apects of the as1as513a8109 of

Lee OGWALD and his wife wart have been handled by Sorlet Intall-

Igence authoritles shile they vere insido the Soviet Union are

particlerly Interesting and his suggestions for the quastioning

01 BoS- Jarina CONALD are equally provocative.

20

we have decided to pase on his viera without editing.

and this Agency doen not speeifically endorse his conclusicas

or recomendations.

CSCI-3/719,135

En2lo0kreg: Per garagraph I

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 25 MAY 1976

IMPOET CL BY0/2208

c/ws/3/J.M.hitten: cmy

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses

•1 ~ RI

CI/LTA

CI/R&A

CI/SIG

2

C/WH/3

WE/R

12 December 1963

BASIC:

Hane

NO PROJECT

Document Number -

43-76A

for POlA Review on MAY 1975

16. DEL 63

digi

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/58

PAGE

COPY

185 • 212

NO.

---

## Page 144

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

SUST :

Peter DOTYABIl's Comerts on F

salient Xermedy' s

Assassination

1. He shoals understand that sy romeute watch fallo are

not besed solely a the thems that OSYAID ias pectileally

dispitched to mander cor President. Athe yery

3283 20881b131y

also slats that SNAL? zor sent hert on moc

Easier bre

as the seals for OSWALD's set must here boen planted intra he

was being trained la the lssa zer bus other master, de ligat

t0 T be an an hate to tan ta kit tng tha

I beltove ve can sale a goal case as to the precisi

gains eccrueling to the LESR and not specifieclly recrueling te

The assetration of resident Termady marla

accallen the alert

fester mename barind the leaderaiy of the osA

would automatically euse vy. Fitness Fannident conson's Inesdias.

conciliatory telegran to kanuscov, aftor the tades.

He tight

mntien that the IsA tas to chint wronet for nos extending

Long range credity to the USH. Istenuion el long range credito

1s v1tal to the tosa nt this junetan.

8, This lenda in into the sout pressing parolem vitata

e best paristenty underrabes the extert of tire

It ves my predictle toat as s realt

Iroblems It tirectitat

our altantion in that Prenddent Caleen Wil res

Interventions 1 Gibs 105 & Jong t

1. A more annable heries s1l3 strengthen KRUBiCHEY"

wed In his timing battle vith the CHICO. He vlll tias bam

enother reasca to say lla for di peeceful coedatence is superior

to tist of the Chica".

C30T3T

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/53

PAGE

COP:

186 0212

170.

---

## Page 145

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

good for irance is not secessarily bed for the leR. "

(Toentenbly nade sortalous comparlacos teèveta thoir des 13zelloctra)

chesent and the flowing of the anta under the 151201. Ine

probles of tan fatallersonly in the l5i aboald not be interzasted

as begung Lots, ine lachala bare provided the Ines

or revolutten in the loss and they conisa one ai the rare.

the by ast the Kitity

It the Issa has say antition ains in senipulating

3. So pubile endodo thats under a Frasident MartEDy vould serve

to esperate the Inesent differnces between tha radleal, lett

and right in Acarinto In I'aci tha USER propaganda mcaise begna

to say the mader uns comitied by the radieal sight as some as

the dend was done una beror esthal vas caytared.

1. Mall, the dart or praldent Karlan, shetber

a planed perettes of asia ill ferre the sont eldom yngose

cỡ tha KEB.

This sentestica a seem terror coula ba interpretel 28 a varain.

to ania's co citicans, a the soriet Intelligence services

have suffered send vary real reversen sacently with PaulovakY,

coTIstl's defactice, their leacdudous expulatos fun the Congo,

efc. I have 2ong Indieted thet the UseR rould tabe aome drastie

action to halt the ripta erasica of dies security.

meration to 1111 ibe Presideat, Must boe the antentia

100

The Khs had

the Ish lamen will dear

the wize that the kes attache

to such ca the spot assessment.

peration by the Ecs.

Alatorteally post

FaE sisted

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

66626 E

PAGE

187 • 212

СОРУ НО.

---

## Page 146

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-3=0

b., In such on pentho ta ho could not use a serien

citizen though the vory real poseibility ecsta sunt Cotto wa

mainted by a soriet Illegal di the KIB ISth Icpartunt. Sticking

CANALD 21d esosue Iron tha bord butting.

ds Ba did get to a toseter unicà could buya been id:

point of contact with ats illegal case officer.

Certataly ve

In the kos's jenernt for using thatters for mating alacao.

10m pagara.

3. 1lso the very sea? 20sa1a1115k exiate that the It

latended to liganato cito artar be ala the job

H1s Ett

in the eater far proshy to just such a souriten os Ie

sovad grass don acene. Da huey'a yart in the eyeratica ya rust

recogate Laa possiutlity that RUSY was also a Kos batcunt. ba.

Losing at the tara esentiais of his part in the eperation ve

Bea the folloing:

aust had accean to the police statton. Reperta

say he personally ben nast pollooner.

b. Le successially silenced OSNAiD.

Co MaY resins silent and his coper is holding up.

•- En has a rsascable chance to escape the dentia sentence.

4, The sodeadgned adebt be better qualitled to coment ca

did he go to Meadow?"

ubo decided to gar el his ou; that 15, he udo this deciatos

Fe posadbly mas looking for

b. Second, alter OSuAD's Alicharge se an desirabla

Iron the Marines, he fami biesell in a dispicali ael saploaat

situation: 1s 1t postala that in this situatior so las noticed

Dy a spotter arrocriter for the Illegals en sen other depart

ment and was consta

an a ponsible condidate for use or

SEGRET

incorrect

stivene

Santo

dischafill

status

detented

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/61

PAGE

188 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 147

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

200272159416}

The fall intoetion abort CaSALD wes sere to llancos,

ni an licace's order pa investigation ol CSUALo ma caño 20d

actually sugesting the 15i2 Itali, InaiRel AVALD to travel

to 1h0 20

it te spantale that conscie 3919

bia Bona finantal assistance and son utica on bou to 80 thia.

mara, leaning nore sout the Sortet bajos and recodviag i

truction for tie peration, cutirles, esc.

vithout zatiza en inmatieation of the person raicina tha

arte 03.

hare to rais on sa inesta 100 de the fallaring

gertrade

• Д.

Then din CaNALa tirat begia to esgres Ata wish

to so to the sertet taisi

n To tha dia m tal, roon de he cortaet at th1

erty tie, and bor mich tine elapeel betron toge talis ar

contacta and his copilenitori

saret Tiest

à. Eor long dia 1t taise Io bia to gat the visai

no percaty ene the viss to tha

He saat

non d the pe

230530

LIO ME P814 793

I, Sen enl hou did CSINLo travel to tae lasa (als,

sen, trougt stich contrlos; la sich countries, li suz, did

he ma'so stops; bole long vere susis stora)?

6. Rogether with the sore, 1t 19 verr in

aut to insa of

STo Eden

ins envance that be las guing and who lnew that be le auna:

Kether, brother,

Flotives, leas, peigenos, girl Friends,

boy tienda, ald bundios, eter to tum dla CoNALD soy gordora

beraro ha lort tor the lison: personally of by telepacre, Dy

0513°

Dia no ever sas sopone my gestion en tramelina to the

773011?

C0021 62

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

189 •г 212

СОРУ NO.

---

## Page 148

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

can you

7.

CONALD IN BORCO

When OWED in

moder doservation, Imtintion and complete

Da FIrs particular casa, under the Seeced Criel Directorato (CI).

Boing under the castral of lue hus, an the same tiar la wii unde

beasy investigation dineted at nevering the mastics of why this

viziber tey taor 1a advance abort (Staid or not; mysey, they

valla conduct such an twestigatim). Dyery sousiala bit of infor

natien sun taken from CSMAID zooet the lad, empactally about 113

ervice in ten Hamine Corps, ete. It the sea tina, CHALD ya

mies smutant overration an etude for posatile Auture use 19

the Soviet Intelligence sod CI terrices.

8. It should be notel here that any for

en inden she eVen 57. 303 1555 905 3987

stay auch is enned by the Goriet sbate Be

candidata for suture upe bracial tratning ai

art withh

die = 300

me top tidal seport mal altan catart tou the 105,

aur to be mi dant la sient possibly be med co useil to

Soilet Intalligence or Ci Sarren.

through the soviet Inbaasy in inchingion ad throng soviet age

enressal e wish to stay forever 1a the Sorial Lalos und to be

"It you really

mant to do & Sorlot citizen and serve the Commist care, Jou

Just deposes Ameries Ipantalion und brom citissato.

Tectors, sostbure in thiy period, CALD went touthe U. S

Inasy mi rance nial. so citizenly neer trades

Stete Security decided to give CuNts sone lina or jes to la

accosince with hts inleige nd carchiltties, it the sina ton

cortming to stily his as a potaria aga

10.

Be

agent takes a lons 12e p

CHAPRI

he kai pot yet besn

ma sadet etir

a ma decidial to

uge his in a core)or lesa gen vag.

11. Ian CHElL shored sose dissatisfaetion ebout the

Soviet tunel life (1t 19 zual lo Maricans) 12d by this tiza

THALa Lad alsonãy nei his clil Irlena (ths KUs pIebadly belped

STORET

6012163

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

190

0712

COPY.

NO.

---

## Page 149

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

his to find barto unto his hapsy mi to na'o sure that ho votia

not louve tba Soviet Ohion) - the KCB et the sure tina cartimed

to train bin, predebly in the lay of en ali antoned laamdat,

talling his thrt he vould be a sool fighter agains iperialieta

a better iren in the U.S. you save to fight very hari to bury

capitalian ty of filth Sergeyeries says;

Logatber vita

epitatta yo bare to buy all the nillanires, Inelaline you

Most-beast and blook escher, Many (Ors: this Is not a tali

gates coltain in germal, tbon the Collo

pause Fod 13

Sissionto

thon, ve save you perdantos beese ta belteve you are 1 strag ?

vendet to retura to the ISA and to do sonething los cas ecarca

me, buch so to belp sy mmilesa pro-soviat argulations o

os Instanco, becous i mmber of a Froo Cres Cumittee 05 1

case of crisli to do somethtay catstaniing that 111l de noticenblo

main a big nodse, they decided to let hin ani bor 203 or 11 bi

¿reedy was a tralned agent, then tithoui my ini ci zodoe o

Elz port, but with sens diestealttes, permisalon los granted for

hey to go with him.

khother they are Commists a not.

13. Investigation ol (SHALD's Vile should be underteen

Estation being paid the queet on:

to Laila

0002r64

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PACE

191 .: 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 150

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

LT

=7-

First, who ls sinï ler eduestion, pruiensios, seu,

landly bacana, Party arrillation (Sonional sentershio).

Il sta vaa e neses oi the Lomonal, then the Konecal erganization

2111 tate any steps posiulo againet hes trapaling to toe U. 5.

ALoo, sho murt bo opallod fras the kentenal, sal thes abe auto

cotiar, The suna settos vould falate to sy of lar raltive

father, rother, brothors.... If they vere seabury of the CPSU

To videh offleen was she lurited barora and alter

Its--moothly and gulet?y, iith no tali poly around about it-

c. Tho briged her and boy very times to urite prepa

for the soriet Hinisty af Foreign Alfetry to soy that sbe

Ind zarriod an American alitzes asi vola liza to 3o vith hin to

the USA? II 1t taa dono a fer tives and sith greas dificulties,

then probshty it tos do mly with a little bela troa the lute, Il

Ior pontalanos to cor to the U.S. Mas procened very mally and

audelly.)

than and where did they register theis sorriago?

Bros thari tham did they taso in nesddence siter serriagr?

Heam

ter fires sa pertent, or a socal Asd 1a that sedgabarzood?

e, shere dia her basband, OSAIa, work? In shet fastory)

re hla sony of mais? Hou lony dia ba spend In lacer be

e vest to Mannti tho coone Anelaid ha os dia sonoras ala

F20 vore bor Insband's tientes Ficha shat cireles?

Ucrisea:

Izenllectanls?

I. Hos sinny tinod were she and her musbel thile they

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/ 65

PAGE

192 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 151

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

I. Vari does sha say about life 17 the Doriet Unico:

¿° Did her hasband have a gus vaile be vas in the

Soviot Dalon:: II so, bor does she lnow socut 1t?

Warm did ho

-get 11: Did ba bevo nectal permisaion to carry a sm: dil he

ting this am with hin versa the border? for your 1nd0rrt100

body carries d/em 1a tou ussa ulthout too kEs eventzalls

Lening at, 1t.

Least do all an Aeries.

• Ebo sore Instructions to CHALA tO as 1

montal antatones it the haricon Babusay upon his retur

a les their flast chili bom 10 Russia baptized In

tho UscRi

It so, In khat church: Haose iden va 1t:

Did tizery

bestise theirsecond chila, bom in the U. 3."

3. I COUAID sover bad & perment job bare is tha

Sà, they who was going to Iansara his next triy to the usin

Ich nach did his visa loor about his plan to retura to uta lissa

14. The tapestigation es the vira casala be sado steo

con 11v0 rithin the Soviet baica.

availabLe taPO EE CHALD'S story in the Dial mi the spos

al 213, 7151t to the soviet Inbasay 1a Idles Cltj. A-17105133

matizen can be expected to honor such a remest. Fe metri lea

«great deal ITos the forlet reals.

COGNET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CC02r Cố

PAGE

193 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 152

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

N55:*745

5X-11057

7.2. SUREY MOMO: CACA

295929555190}

Carelest

16 January 1964

S0.12, BagGy Tod

ONCSANDUH OF CONVERSATICN

Chief, SR

- SUBJECT:

CIA Work in Support of the Warren Connission

Batow is a sumary of the matters discussed in our

Angleton and Bocca

on the evening of

15 fanaays 7964.

In tura, da. Angloton vas renorting to us

the substance oi his neeting with Hi. Allen Dulles, Ir.

J. Ide Rankin, Chief Counsel, Mr. Wellias of the custice

Department, Mr. Helms and Mr. Rocca, which took place on the

afternoon of 14 January 1989.

2.

Mr. Angleton said that tr. Diles,

apparently pro

voked by press accusations that the Warren Cornission has

been dilatory, asked CIA 107 suggestions of questións or

requests to ba included in a letter to the

This

letter,

¿ron the Warren Cocaission and to be transnitted

through the Departuent of State, would seek

additlonal evi

lence which is presunably avallable in Soviet files which

could assist the Connission's deliberations.

not have a detailed idea of what he wanted to

ask the Soviets

Is but did say that the questions should be "not too tech

nical."

Although Mr. Argleton thought that the lotter should

be written only alter the CIA report and couments have been

complated,

in order to make the letter as effective as possi

ble, i. Dulles felt it should go now,

be phrased in generali-

tles and atlor the soviets nore flexibility in their handling

of the matter than would a more pointed letter based on our

concrete findings.

Mr. Dulles asked CIA only I0r the questions

and not for a draft letter.

Er. Surphy suggested that wo ask

only for certain records rather than put specific questious

to the Soviets:

Mr. Murphy suggested that

these might include

Soviet hospital records connected with Lee Oswald's

attemptad

suicide, city visa and registration records for losco and

Minsk, factory personnel records fron Oswald's place of employ

ment, etc. Also Oswald's diary noted that his case had passed

throush tro corissions In the Ussk, ve might ast for the

records of these commissions as well.

Mr.

Angleton said that

in transmitting our suggestions to tx. Lulles we can Include

any introductory paragraphs or explanatory coments that ve

492-1023476001

Penna goi

Document Number

1n8063

For FOlA Revie# in

201-289245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

coterer

PAGE

194 •s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 153

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•2-

felt necessary to explain to Mr. Dulles the direction of our

thinking about thesa proposals.

(Note: I Instructed Mr. Wigren to prepare a

drait of suggested queries, using the

assistance 01 DERYABIN and

to have this

ready, if possible, by the closa of

businegg today.)

3.

Rankin stated that the Conmission wants to account

In detall,

minute by minute and hour by bour, for Oswald's

time outside the United States.

Mr. Bagley suggested that

the narrative chronology of Oswald's stay in the Soviet Union

be convarted toa chronology tabulation which would pernit us

more staplyto insert added details and dates as we learned

of themjin other documentation which we can expect to recelve

shortly.

This vas agreed.

(Nota: I Instructed Mr. Wigren to begin re

casting the narrative immediately into

this {orm.)

Rankin said that the Commission has a waist high

stack of documents and reports received from the FBI and Secret

Service which CIA has not yet received.

These Include Secret

Service Interviews with Marina Oswald, letters fron Lee Oswald

In the USSR and other naterial. He promised to send this

material to Hr. Helms shortly.

(Note: He will pass appropriate parts of this

material to DERYABIN fos further analy

sis along the lines of his earlier work

on documents already in our possession.)

"essrs. Anglaton. wurphy and Bocca considered REBYA-

questions to which it gave rise,

important contrabution.

CIA would be unable to nake any seri

analysister even hypothesis until some of DuRYABIN's

questions knd been answered.

Rocca suggested that DErKA

EIN's paper be recast into nore of a questionnaire form and.

Mr. Bagley agreed, pointing out that DERYABIN's comment and

speculation could be put off to the side as explanatory cor

ment on esch question,

as appropriate.

Mr. Angleton and Mr.

Murphy thought that it would be desirable to send this paper

to the Warren Commission in advance of other CIA reports with

a menorandum informing the Commission that we would need

answers to this interim questionnaire in order to reconstruct

a detailed chronology of Oswald's time in the USSR and to

corment on his activity there.

The Commission would be asked

to procure the information from Marina through any Agency 1t

might choose®

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/68

PAGE

COPY

NO.

195 •€ 212

---

## Page 154

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(Note:

I instructed ir. Wigren to prepare

the

DERYABIN paper in this format urgently.)

6.

Hr. Angleton reported that he had asked the Cornis

sion representatives certain quastions portairing to our use

of defectors In analysing the Oswald papers:

Lave

Was the Commission formally requesting us to

defectors analyse the material?

Nor. Wellins thought that the answer

to this question is yes.

However,

Mr. Angleton asked for a formal

request from the Comission to this

effect.

The FBI. has stated that its

reports are not to be passed to

ALLADLE, which may cause some compli

cations.

Would the Commission be prepared to assume the

burden of responsibility it such a derector should disa

ree with the Commission's opinions of cometup with

radically dilferent hypothesis or interpretation?

The persons present said that the

Commission would.

If a defector who had contributed to the analy

sis of the documents should be unwilling to appear person-

ally and formally before the Commission, would the

Connission exercise its subpoena powers agalnst him?

Mr. Rankin thought that if there was

a risk involved for the defector, the

Commission would not do so.

However,

Rankin promised to get a fornal answer

Iron the Cormission on this point.

d.

Hi11 the classification we put on our corres

pondence to the Commission be honored?

The answer was that in principle our

classification would be honored.

Howa

over, r. Rankin warned those present

that ChA should not hope to evade criti

cts orresyorschttity_thaug?-classi-

fICaTION O1

Its naterial.

6002/63

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

196 • 212

PAGE

COPY AD.

---

## Page 155

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

52-11057

- 4-

NI. Angloton reported that ir. Richard Davis is repre

senting the interests of the Department of state in this

Air. Thompson had ruled himself out because he was

Anbassador to the Soviet Union at the time of the events in

7. " One matter which had been brought to light by the

Oswald: case was the need for a mechanism in the United States

Government to record and assimilate our knowledge of the Soviet

hoadling of American defectora to the USSi.

The Bureau 1s

apparently 1u some danger of criticisa 1or its tailure to keer

an eyelonisswald atter his return

Similarly, CIA has not

systematically collected nor compiled information on Soviet

defector handling.

Berlin Base had kept a list of American

defectors at one

debriefed on their return to the West.

time, but these individuals have not bee

8.

The Commission representatives at the 14 January 1964

neeting estimated that the Warren Commission would need Lom

three to sis nonths to complate its task.

9.

of having DIRYABIN participate personally, representing the

FBI as an Interpreter perhaps, in a debriefing of Marina.

desars. Angleton and surphy were convinced that crA must avoid

direct Involvement with this investigation. Although It is

less efficient as a nethod, we will content ourselves with

putting written questions to Marina to be su theod by whatever

Agency the Connission may choose to use.

Jennent I. Bagley

Chief, SR/CI

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002170•

197 •г 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 156

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

@ROCCA NOTE tO HEL5 ON

Telk with DULLES on ai Mored

Dick:

XAAZ-27169

23 March 1954

4/3/64

Had a bridfing at Allen Dulles' house on Saturday after-

1002. (We were assembled to discusa his taping session with

tape' Doryabia, delar Macine, Donovan-and ita

Yorkstonigh None of the others were present.)

AWD ahowed me à letter ha had recelved from Rankin

recently expressing the desire to reach a modus vivendi in

order to allay the story of ClA's possible sponsorahip of Oswald's

activity. The potat of the comounication to AWD was to suggest

that he serve as kille rexiewer fox the Commianion, The letter

outlined alternative possibilities in this matter (affidavit from

the DCI, etc.)e.

In my presence, AWD wrote the answer:

8.. Doclining the lavitation to serve as file

reviewer fos good aad sufficient reasons.

bo. Stating his willingness to provide a state.

ment as testimony to the Commission with respect to

his kzowledge of Oswald during his tenure as DCI. He

fos FOlA Review on

Document Number

JUN

1978

unbor 618=793

noted In the tail off of the letter that as far as he could

of Oswald

remember-he had never had azy knowledge at any tire

parlor to the date ol the assassiattor 201289248

CS: COPL

Rock

- 23. Man 64

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002/71

PACE

198•212

CCPY

NO.

---

