# 104-10106-10466

## Page 1

104-10106-10466

78433

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Support

SUBJECT

: Claimed Agency Affiliation by

Conspiracy Case Figures

1 MAY 1967

this Candien

Ecuted to an

caba

1. This memorandum is for your information only.

2. On the afternoon of 24 April 1967, the Federäl Bureau of

Investigation advised this Office of claimed Agency affillation by a

fugitive witness in the New Orleans investigation into a conspiracy to

assausinate the late President. According to the FBI information,

received from a newa media source; Gordos Dwane Novel, the

fugitive witness, had indicated he is currently employed by the CLA

and the alleged burglary of a munitions bunker at Houma, Louisiana.

in 1961, involved CIA and was not a burglary. According to Novel,

the Schlumberger Well Service had as arrangement with CIA wherein

it leased a bunker in which ammunitios, bomb casings and other

material would be stored for CiA. According to Novel, it was

intended to ship the material out of the U.S. in Schlumberger boxes

labeled "machinery". Again according to Novel, following the Bay

of Pigs invasion, the Schlumberger interests became upset and

wanted out of their contract with CIA. Three months aiter the

invasion, states Novel, arrangements were made for the material

stored in the bunker to be removed by Novel and his group. At the

time the material was removed, he states, an individual involved

also took some of Schlumberger's low grade powder and fuses and

other material. Novel has reportedly supplied someone with the

names of the others involved with the burglary. He specificially

told the media source that he and one Arcacha Smith are still

employed by CIA and that should he be returned to New Orleans

to face charges of burglary of the bunker, he would offer this as his

defense.

3. The following day, 25 April, a story in the New Orleans

States Item charged there is mounting evidence of Central Intelli-

gence Agency links in District Attorney Garrison' a presidential

assassination conspiracy probe, noting that at least one figure in

ment Number

1332-502/1045

JIA Reyiew on.

MAR 1977

---

## Page 2

COMET

the case intends to use his CIA connections as part of his defense

and that "still others linked to the Carrison lnvestigation have been

named as acting for the super-secret espionage organization an

informers, as couriers and musitions carriers". It named Novel as

baving the strongest ties to CIA, and quotes him as calling the alleged

bunker burglary an "the most patriotic burglary in history". He

reportedly has told associates, states the news iter, that the alleged

theft was a war materials pickup roade at the direction of his CIA -= J09 Fut

contact. Accordiag to Novel, the late David Whliam Ferris, and Pieu #2d/7

others were involved in the bunker incides.

Ho stated that the

explosives were picked up and consolidated soon after the burker

incident and eventually taken by boat to Cuba for use in a diversionry

operation is connection with the Bay of Pigs invasion. (This atatemen:

conflicts with Novel'e reported statement to the FBI's media source,

paragraph one above, which dates the bunker theit as three months

after the Bay of Pigs. District Attorney Garrison also has charged

the banker incident took place three months after the Cuban invanion. )

The newspaper also quotes Novel as contending that he operated the

Evergreen Advertising Agency in New Orleans as a front for CLA

communications in an elaborate use of commercials to alert agents

to the date of the Bay of Pigs invasion.

4. Novel, according to the presa report, has said "I think

Garrison will expose some CIA operations in Louisiana", but did not

elaborate. His attorney, however. would appear to place little faith

in Novel's claims. In a Columbus, Ohio, interriew, Jerry Weiner,

attorney for Novel, when told of the press reports of Novel'a state-

ments, said; "It'a ulterly ridiculous.. Novel is not now and has sever

been a CIA agent. "

5. There is no record of any utilization ps Gordos Dwane Novel,

Sergio V. Arcacha Smith, or the Evergreen Advertining Agedcy- (i

addition to Office of Security retonic, wu/Culd RID, andel Staff

were checked for possible indication of operational involvement.)

6. Inquiries with WH/Cuba, the Office of Logistics, and

several Agency officers involved with munitions storage in the New

Orleans area at the time of the Bay of Pig's fail to develop any

indication of past operational activity of the nature deseribed by Novel.

Officers who handled project munitions storage in the area have ladi-

cated that all the munitions were stored at a reactivated Naval depor

4515.

2

-ZONET

---

## Page 3

and completely under Agency control.

Munitions in trassit were

guarded, and there is no knowledge of utilization of commercial

storage facilities of the Schlumberger intereste of any other

commercial firm. (The Office of Logistles has had dealings in the

past with Schlumberger-related firmas, but has avoided activities

with the Schlumberger firm because of its foreign owership and

questionablo personalities in the firm. DCS has bad an interest in

the pant in some personalities affiliated with Schlumberger, but

reportedly unrelated to any mattera as allegod by Novel.)

% As noted above, Novel has claimed to the press that the

munitions from the buaker wexo to be usedfor a diversionary

operation at the time of the Bay of Figs, Agency officers familiar

with the operation al the reactivated Naval depot, the Belle Chasse

Ammunition Depot, have indicated that such a diversionary opora-

fion was based at Belle Chasse, but that the operation was cancelled

before a landing was made. Any namber of participating Cubana

would be aware such a diversionary operation was planned.

3. The CI Staff, in a detailed staff study of the Garrison

Investigation, has noted part ClA contact /with only two figures named

in the inquiry, Clay Ly

Shas and Carlon/Bringuier, in both cases tbe

contact was limited to Domestic Contact Service activities. Ibe

study specifically notes there hate been nò documented Agency

utilization of Novel, Ferrie or Arcacha Smith, those named by Novel

in his statementa to the press about the bunker incident.

9. During the course of our inquiries into Novel'a charges,

one tenous link was developed which conceivably could be exploited

and distorted in atterapts to link this Agency with Novel and others.

An interlinking with a personality reportedly from Ramparts Magazine

might also indicale a connection between Novel'a charges and the con-

certed efforts of some to smear the Agency. This situation is

described in an attachment to this memorandum.

Marlos 6121287220

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

1 Att

6151=7

SEGRET

3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

A. NOVEL, Is Polygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charged.

B:

Gordon Dwaze NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in the

Garrison inguiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27

March 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the

case under investigation by Garrison. According to the press

reporta, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination

conducted at McLean, Virginia by Lloyd FURR. In statements

to the press. FURR indicated there was no indication of

deception to NOVEL'a chasges that Garrison's case is a

"fraud'.

Lloyd FORB'e Relationship to Richard 1.

BAST/and REpEX.

Lloyd FURR, a former District of Columbis policeman and now

a private detective, is a self-proclamed polygraph "expert"

and sound device specialist.

He has received pablicity in the

past for planting sood devices for the late Falton Lewis, Jr.

la the St. Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he

discovered Ilstening devices being used against Bernard Goldilse.

In 1964, Information was received that a Washingtor, D. C.

firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard L. BAST, was

attempting to sell electronic equipment to Communist China via

an agent in Hong Kong. (ISD had unclassified contact with

FURR in 1962 to s0e equipment offered for sale by FURR.)

C. Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Richard I BAST, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained

noteriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously

unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the

Bobby Baker case.. He is known to operats at least four

enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

private detective agency; 2) REDEX VISTNAM. INC., a firm

which imports a variety of commodities ranging from liquor to

antomobiles into South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S.-recruited

"go-go" girls for a Saigon nightclub he is planning: 3) REDEX

COR?-, a firm which selle almost anything to saybody abroad..

other than South Vietzam; and 4) CONSOLDATED ARMAVENTS,

ING., 2 fin which sells small arme to foreign goveraments and

private individuals abroad. BAST also produces and distributea

both positive audio and counteraudio devices in the U.S. aad

---

## Page 5

14-00000

?-43F1

overseas. BAST, described as "unscrupulous and untrust- .

worthy" is known to have attempted to contract with another

private detective for planting a remote-controlled bomb in the

headguarters of the Flaiti Secret Police, and has been reported

to have undertaken similar extreme assignments for exile

groups from Haiti and the Dominican Republic. (Based on

derogatory information on file, DCS, in March 1967, decided

against previoualy contemplated contact with BAST as a

source of information on Asia.

D. BAST, REDEX, and William W. TURNER Of RAMPARIS

CA Staff has provided intormatton that during January 1967,

Williams F. TURNER, who identified himsell as a free-lance

writes, visited the offlces of the Aola Foundation, requesting

Information for a magasine article.

He stated that he had

been asked by Sol Stern of New York to gather information for

as article in the New York Times. Duriag bla visit, howaves,

It became obvious that TURNER was primed to ask questions

aboat the financing of the foundation, rather than lis actual

purpose of activities. When TURNER concluded the interview

he left a calling card with the fina same "REDEX-PACIFIC".

He explained be bad to have new cards printed. TURNER,

reportedy dismissed from the FBI in 1961, Is noted sol have

authored an article in the November 1966 issue of RAMPARTS

Magazine in which he describes alleged wiretapping /sur

reptitiona entry, ete., performed by him while with the FBI.

Sol Stern, whom he clalmed to represent, is assisfant

managing editor of RAMPARTS Magazine.

Es Role of FURR and BAST in CIA Meeting of Exilo

(The foragoing has attempied to detail the contact of NOVEL

vita FURR, FURR's connection with EAST, and a possible

commection between BAST's organization and RAMPANTS.

The following indicates the only CIA involvement in the chain

which might bo exploited is subsequest attempts to liak CLA

to the entire affair la guestion.

On 29 April 1963, Robert E. Owen, then Chief, WS/3 and 1/161

director a memorasdum to the Chieft.

"2

---

## Page 6

14-00000

FORET

11/6 = which he documented a comersation he had on

27 A== 1963, with Raymond CASSAGNOL; an anti-Duvalier

erile om Haiti. In' tha memo andum be relates that the

conversation took place la the pome of Richard I, BAST

whom owen had met through a neighbor, Lloyd FURR.

The Senorandam relates CASSAGNOL's background, family,

political stance, ete. Reported as sigulficant by Owen ia a

staterceat by BAST that the following week BAST would be

sendig a shipload of arms to a CASSAGNOL-afflllated group

in the Dominican Republic. Owen noted: "Raymond

CASSAGNOs gives appearance of thinking well of Richard

BASI, According to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacgues,

also 200ws BAST and respects him. Thus BAST, in spite of

certain personal shortcomings from the intelligence standpoint,

does represent an established channel to at least one segment

of tbe Haitiaz opposition to Duvalier. Since according to bis

oma statement, BAST is supplying arms to CASSAGNOL'»

grosps, further transactions of thia type via BAST presurably

wouid not be difficult to arrange." He also provided a detailed

information on what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had

mestioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and the fact that

"CIA double-crossed them" (the Dominicana).

An EDI report on BAST dated 19 June 1963 reports that Owen,

"Foreign Service Reserve Officer, USDS" (kis cover) had

Ieported 16 May 1953 his attendance at dinner at BAST'a home

on 27 April 1963. Owen told of his meeting with GASSAGNOL,

BAST's Intention to sell arma to the Dominican Republic and

Haitian exiles, etc. He also reports that on 7 May 1963, BAST

asked him to perfors some translation work. The translation,

he stated, related to BAST giving a power of attorney to one

LUiS MORINO Martinez of the Dominican Republie to prepare

cocumentation for legal establishment of REDEX CORPORATION,

C POR A, a DR branch of BAST'& firm. According to Owes,

105 of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National

Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, and a

Individual well-comected with Dominican Republie police and

intelligence groups. BAST is also noted to have told Owen

of an offer EAST had made to "bug" the office of the Dominican

3

toas

CORE7

---

## Page 7

Secretary of State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan

Sosch, BAST did not indicate to Owen if had performed

the job.

Thore is no record of a cloarance having boes issued to

tilination of Aichard L, BASE oF REDEK

SEBRET

---

