# 104-10188-10414

## Page 1

104-10188-10414

DISPATCH

CRABBINATINA.

SECRET

.. "BOCISSING ACTION

НАЛИЦ О ВСА 140811908

Chief, KURIOT

Alin: Photographic Branch

DO NOCKING REGU

Hero

ONLY QUALITHO DESA

Chief, WH Diveion

emom

Chief of Station, Mexico City

0) Operational Monthly Report -- 1-31 December 1963

ACTION REQUINIS REFLPLPACLS

Action: None. For your information.

Presented below is a reporting of the operational and support activities

of Gregory D. PARMUTH for the above mentioned period.

1. General Summary of Activitie.

Activity for the month of December consisted of the following:

Installation of the SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse; Assistance

was given to C/MACHARITY on an audio operation against an LCHARVEST

target; A locked door containing audio equipment was opened by PARMUTH

at an LP monitoring the LCHARVEST apartment; Station production totaled

2,325 for the month; One agent was trained in SW; and Photographic basehousea

covering Soviet and Satellite Embassies produced below average production

because of the Christmas season.

2. TDY

• On 16 December 1963 Peter T. SWINEHART, POB, arrived at Mexico

City to install a SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse. See para 5. g.

of thia report for details.

On 17 December 1963 an SWB representative arrived at Mexico City

(continued)

Enl:

la Training Report (KASNICKA

2. Sequence Camera reports (3)

3. SWB Report

Distribution:

^ - KURIOT, w/encls

1 - WH, w/o enels

OROSS REFERENCE TO

no catte to fic

A8 COPY

DISPATCH SYMBE ANO NUMBER

• HMMA-22726

CLASSIFICATIÓN

SECRET

50-618

DATE

16 January 1964

MOS INE MURABER

50-6-18

---

## Page 2

1d-0n0d

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

IIMMA-22726

lor the purpore of training PARMUTH in the use of SW syrtem 99.

3. Trainins:

See training report forwarded as Enclosure I on Lewis F. KASNICKA.

4. Operatione.

None.

5. Station Support:

#. On the morning o! 1 December 1963, PARMUTH assisted RESCIGNO

34 530

RESCIGNO and PARMUTH entered thia crawling space by removing a small

section of flooring located inside the LP apartment. There is also a trap door

leading into the crawl space at the front entrance hall of the building although

the curious would be discouraged to onter this area because of stagnant water

six to ten inches deep on the floors at all times, cob webs, bugg, etco, etc...

Three audio microphones were installed on this operation.

b. During the period 2-14 December 1963, PARMUTH again handled

LIFIRES 4/5 while Marvin A. CABOT was on annual leave.

c. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH forwarded to KURIOT/WAVE

Headquartera two orders of envelopes (six month supply per each request)

and one request for stampe.

The envelopes were handcarried by Timothy A.

CAPRIOTT W WAVE Headquarters, avoiding a week's delay if the envelopes

were sent through the pouch from Mexico City. The stamps were handcarried

by another TDYer to the States for mailing to Washington.

d. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH was requested to re-enter the

LP. covering the LCHARVEST apartmerit as reported in para 5,a. of this report.

The purpose of this viait was to unlock & closed door which atured the LP equip-

ment which monitora LCHARVEST activitice in that apartment, Although the

basehouse keeper had a key which worked well for several days previously. the

lock would not open for the agent on the afternoon of 6 December. PARMUTH

entered the apartment at 0130 hours on 7 December and unlocked the door. It

was found that the throw bolt located inside the lock was broken. For security

purposes, two other locke were removed from other doors located in the same

room to check if these locks were in the same bad condition. In each case,

when the key was inserted into the lock and turned excessively, the throw bolt

snapped. A new lock of the same type manufacture was installed on the coset

door by the basehouse keeper on 7 Deceinber 1963.

e.

On the night of 7 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by.

the COS to install an extension phone at the COS residence. Alter a short

training period given by RESCIGNO at the MKCHARITY base, PARMUTH was

able to service this request satislactorily. This extension was one which

replaced one removed (for study) by KUSODA officials who inspected Mexico.

f. On 10 December 1963 PARMUTH photographed $23 frames, using

the Recordak to fulfill a monthly Staff D requirement for the Chief of Station.

5. On the morning of 17 December 1963, SWINEHARI, LIFEUD/22

and PARMUTI! met at the LIERODE basehouse to install the 15mm SEQUENCE

camera and the VLS? trigger device. SWINEHART instructed both L-22 and

PARMUTH very thoroughly on the installation and maintenance of the SEQUENCE

154 OR

TRACINO

HMA 994449

SECRET

8X1-0908197

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HIMALA - 22720

camera. The complete system was then dismantled by SWINEHART tO 8381 142

could re-install the system from the beginning. This Has done by bi and met

«ith SWINEMART's datisfaction. Although the Conmulato door was clored to the

public for a period of six days for unknown reasond de of the nigh: of li December

1961, resta were made using the SEQUENCE camera photographing people walking

by the Consulate doos. The camera vorked vell and produced fuud printable

negatives. On the morning of 18 December 1963, La, contacted PARMUTH and

explained tat the Consulate door was now open to the public and receiving

visitore as of 1010 that day. PARMUTH and SWINEHART joined L22 shortly

later at the LIERODE basehouse and found that the camera syatem vas working

well and photographing people entering and leaving this larget area.

SWINEHART

then processed this film at the Station lab and nade sample prints of the day's

take to be prosented to the COS and C/PBRUMEN for their approval. Both were

very pleased with the photographic results using this type of camera equipment.

at the LIERODE baschouse. As of this reporting, the SEQUENCE camera is

using approximately. 100 feet of Plus X film between 6900 and 1100 hours (office

hours-for the Consülate). L-23 uses the present dark room area io photograph

traffic entering and leaving the front gate of the Embassy and is on duty from

0800 to 1800 hours daily, six daya a week. In order for L-22 to process the film

from both of these cameras and make printe daily, it will be necessary to install

another darkroom at the basehouse. L-22 will need a Morse Tank for processing

film, a drying rack, and a small PAKO dryer for finishing prints in order to

satisfy PBRUMEN requirements at the Station, Forwarded as enclosure 2 is

the inatallation, and statistical and training report concerning this operation.

h. On the night of 17 December 1963, PARMUTH and SWINEHART

went to the Mexico City Airport to meet a visiting SWY TDYer and assisted him

through customs. Before the plane arrived, PARMUTH and SWINEHART took

the opportunity to inspect the

camera located in

On the evening of 31 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by

Michael C. CHOADEN, C/PBRUMEN Operations Officer, to make an emergency

meeting with LIFEUD/22. The purpose of this meeting was to pick up photographs

and logs for 30 and 31 December in connection with a priority PBRUMEN operation.

6. Station Support (SW Activity).

a. On 6 December 1963, a visiting IDYer from Tegucigalpa requested

PARMUTH to train SWLUCK/Pin secret writing. Training was carried out on

7 December 1963 at a local hotel in the city. SW systeme 37 and 5g were used in

his operation as per KURIOT instruction in DIR 87130. Forwarded as enclosur

3 is the SW report which is to be sent to SWB.

b. On 20 December 1963, PARMUTH was trained in the use of SW

system 99 by a visiting KURIOT technician.

7. Miscellaneous Statistica.

a. Number of operational targets surveys completed during month: 0.

b. Number of TDY trips completed during the month: 0.

c. Photographic equipment issued for operational use: SEQUENCE

camera.

.d. Photographic equipment repaired: O.

e. Number of people trained in photographic rechniques/equipment: 2.

1O*M

as 53a

i Mirro

18863194189

6. 9$59-27290

SECRET

Exx wives

paint tes

3.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

61.1390

SECRET

pd, l p098147 desires

HMMA-22726

J. Production Figures on Jobs Processed.

a. Black and white: 43 jobe.

(1) Total prints: 2,325.

(2). 35mm microfilm: 300 feet.

(3) 16mm film: negative - 400 feet; positive - 400 feet.

(1) 35mm cassette: 35.

(5) 120 size roll film: 2.

(6) Sheet film (all types): 0.

(7) Miscellaneous: 0.

b. Color: 0 jobe:

c. KURIOT Station Support:

(1) Secret writing:

issued 1 - 37 carbon to SWLUCK/1.

(2) Flaps and seals: 0.

(3) Chemical harassment: 0.

FAST CATIOTE

, 50-6-18

---

