# 104-10010-10249

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System.

Identification Form

Date:

4/25/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CIA

104-10010-10249

JFK

201-289248

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

•WC

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

ACCESS RESTRICIED

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/21/1964

7

RESTRICTED DOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/25/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

OSW15:V56B 1993.06.25.18:02:01:030250: THIS ITEM HAS BEEN WITHDRAWN BECAUSE IT

CONTAINS SECURITY CLASSIFIED INFO OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED INFO. DRAFT

MEMO FOR THE RECORD.

y9.1

DocId: 32107690

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Dage: 06/12/96

Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10010-10249

JFK

201-289248

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST. REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

WC

SLAWSON, W. DAVID, WC

MER

04/21/64

7

USSR EMBASSY

CUBA EMBASSY

TRANSCRIPT

MEXICO CITY

CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES IN MEXICO CITY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

OPEN IN FULL

OPEN

06/25/93

OSW15: V56B 1993. 06.25. 18:02:01:030250:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR\

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

3/5/99

6/12/96

TO: ARRB

WE HAVE

Mave Delored ine Record,;

+04-10010-10249

ThE DOCUMERT WAS PROCESSED

UNDER

+04-0010-10248 (copy oF ID

Ais attacked.

CIA/IRG

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DocId: 32107690

Page 2

---

## Page 3

This document,

#12-

by authority of

dated,

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Release In Full 1996

DocId: 32107690 Page 3

.._ tun....

-...

---

## Page 4

36602

Note Regarding XAAZ: 36 EUP

This document is not a CIA document... It belongs to National Archives

as part of the Warren Commission records, held in National Archives's

custody as a downgraded (from TS t secret.

Therefore, CIA

should not concern itself with public requests for this document, but

rather should direct any inquiries to National Archives.

This document may, however, contain CIA information or data concerning

CIA. For this reason it has been incorporated into OSWALD's 201 file and

should be consulted, as appropriate, when pertinent and parallel information

in CIA records is requested by the public.

This document is. identified at National Archives as a document which

appears as item 12

on list No. 2A

PLEASE KEEP THIS NOTE ON TOP OF THIS DOCUMENT.

note

23 June 86:

This.

doe was

downgraded to secret

cIA letter to hath archives, dated

P26 how'75.

RECORD COPY

• DocId: 32107690 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DRAFT/Mr Slawson/21 Apr 64

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

downgrade

The secret

ДВЕТ

per

-/ A

letter of

26 hor'35.

mid

12

36602

21/04/64

FROM:

W. David Slawson

SUBJECT:

Intercepts from the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in

Mexico City

The following are my notes from reading the inter-.

cepts in question in the American Embassy in Mexico City,

translated from the Spanish by Embassy personnel, on April 13,

1964. These

notes are

about as accurate and detailed as I

could make them

without actually quoting the entire trans-

cripts.

In a few instances, either where it was very important

or where the meaning was obscure

and therefore difficult to

paraphrase,

I have quoted exactly. I have noted these portions

by placing them in quotation marks.

September 27 - 10:37 a.m.

person who sounds like an American speaking poor

Spanish, later identified as Lee Harvey Oswald, telephones the

Soviet Embassy.

OSWALD: May I speak to the Consul?

INSIDE VOICE: He is not in.

• OSWALD: I need some visas in order to go to Odessa.

INSIDE

VOICE:

OSWALD: Until when?

INSIDE VOICE: (Hangs

up)

Please. cell at 11:30.

TRAVEL PROCRAM

The National Archives has ne foes

objection io the release of

this document.

RET

TINGEX

AP GRY

Made s0 12. 1;

1P, KB

tea ranit

IRIGHT

FOR FILING

RECORD Copy

201-0289248

DocId: 32107690

Page 5

---

## Page 6

ET

September 27 - 4:05 p.m.

A woman's voice, speaking in Spanish, later identi-

fied as Silvia Duran, speaking from the Cuban Consulate,

calls into the

Soviet Embassy.

SILVIA DURAN: There is an American here who has

requested

an in-transit visa because he is going to Russia.

I would like to know whom he spoke to at the Russian Embassy,

because

I sent him to you thinking if he got a Russian visa

that I could then.

Issue him a Cuban visa without any more

He claims he was told there

processing: Who did he

speak to?

were no more problems.

INSIDE VOICE:

wait a minute. (The inside voice

then explains to someone else on his side of the line that

Silvia Duran 1s calling, that she is calling in reference to

an American who says he had previously been to the Soviet

Embassy,

etc.)

ANOTHER INSIDE VOICE: Please leave the name and

number and we will call you back.

SILVIA DURAN:

(She

leaves her name and her telephone

number and she then engages in

some personal conversation in

regards to the fact that she has recently changed apartments

and

therefore

would 11ke

the "bulletin"

sent to her new

address.

The

voice In

the

Soviet Embassy agrees.)

DocId: 32107690

Page 6

---

## Page 7

P.

ECRET

September 27 - 4:25 p.m.

Someone at the Soviet Embassy telephones the Cuban

Embassy..

VOICE FROM THE SOVIET EMBASSY:

what's the number of

the Cuban Consul?

VOICE AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY: Its: 11-28-47.

September 27 - 4:26 p.m.

Someone at the Soviet Embassy telephones into the

Cuban Consulate. The person answering the phone at

the Cuban

Consulate 1s

Silvia Duran.

RUSSIAN EMBASSY: Has the American been there?

SILVIA DURAN:

Yes, he is here now.

RUSSIAN EMBASSY:

According to the letter that he.

showed from the Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to

Russia to stay for a long time with his wife who is Russian.

But we have received no answer from Washington, and 1t will

probably

take four to five months.

We cannot give a visa here

without asking

Washington.

He says he belongs to a pro-Cuban

organization and

the Cubans cannot give him a visa without his

first getting a Russian visa. I do not know what to do with him.

I have to wait for an answer from Washington.

3

DocId: 32107690

Page 7

---

## Page 8

0

ECRET

SILVIA DURAN:

We have to wait too, because he knows

no one In Cuba and therefore its difficult to give him a visa.

He says he knew it would take

a long time to process the soviet

visa but hoped to await that in Cuba.

RUSSIAN EMBASSY:

"The thing is that If his wife 1s

now in Washington she will receive the visa for return to Russia.

She will receive

it and then

can

send it any place but right now

she does not have it:"

SILVIA DURAN: "Naturally, and we can't give him a

visa here because we do not know if his Russian visa will be

approved."

RUSSIAN

EMBASSY: "We can issue a visa only according

to instructions."

SILVIA DURAN: "That 1s what I will put in my plans."

RUSSIAN

EMBASSY:

"We can't givé him a

letter of recom-

either, because we do not know him. Please pardon the

mendation

bother."

SILVIA DURAN:

"No bother. Thank you very much."

September 28 - 11:51 a.m.

Someone at the Cuban Consulate later Identified as

Silvia Duran telephones into the Russian Consulate.

DECRET

Docid:32107690

Page 8

---

## Page 9

BET

SILVIA DURAN: There 1s

an American here who says he

has been to the Russian Consulate.

RUSSIAN CONSULATE: Wait a minute.

Silvia Duran 1s then heard to speak

in English to

someone apparently sitting at her side. This conversation goes

as

follows:

"He

said, wait. Do you speak Russian?'

"Yes."

"WhY

"I don't know

...

don't you speak to him then?"

The person who was

at the side of Silvia Duran and

who admitted to speaking some Russian then gets on the line

and speaks what is described as "terrible, hardly recognizable

Russian.". This person was later identified as

Lee Harvey Oswald.

OSWALD: "I was in your Embassy and spoke to your

Consul."

my adaress."

RUSSIAN

EMBASSY:

"What else do you want?"

OSWAID: "I was just now at your Embassy and they took

RUSSIAN EMBASSY:

"I know that."

5

=.

CRET

: DocId: 32107690

Pate

---

## Page 10

P

ECRET

OSWALD:

"I did

not know it then. I went to the

•Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address,

because

they have It."

RUSSIAN

EMBASSY: Why don't you come by and leave it

then,

we're not far.

OSWALD:

"Well, I'll be there right away."

October 1 - 10:30 a.m.

A person later Identified as Lee Harvey Oswald,

speaking in "broken Russian," telephones Into the Soviet Embassy.

OSWALD:

"Hello. I was at your place last Saturday

and talked to your Consul. They said they'd send a telegram to

Washington, and I wanted to ask you, is there anything new?"

RUSSIAN EMBASSY: Call another telephone number, 1f

you will.

OSWALD: Please.

RUSSIAN EMBASSY:

15-60-55, and ask for a Consul.

OSWALD: Thank you.

RUSSIAN EMBASSY: "Please."

October 1 - 11:30 a.m.

The same voice, still speaking in broken Russian,

telephones the Russian Consulate.

He speaks to a man identified

TOP

* DocId: 32107690

Paue 10

---

## Page 11

36602

XAAZ-HANCH

CRET

as

"Obyedkov.

• OSWALD: Hello, this 1s Lee Oswald.

I was at your

place last Saturday and talked to your Consul. They said

da send a telegram to Washington, and I wanted to ask you

whether there was anything new, but I cannot remember the name

of the Consul.

OBYEDKOV: "Kostikov. He is dark?"

OSWALD: "Yes. My name is Oswald."

OBYEDKOV: "Just a minute. I'll find out... They say

they have not received anything yet."

OSWALD:

"Have they done anything?"

OBYEDKOV: "Yes, they say a request has been sent

out, but nothing has been received yet."

OSWALD:

"And what….."

OBYEDKOV: (Hangs up)

201-0289248

DocId: 32107690

Pade 11

---

