# 104-10433-10050

## Page 1

104-10433-10050

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

TO

Chlet

INFO.

Chief

FROM

Chick

SUBJECT

O Transmittal of Meno to Legal Attache

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXIN

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Please transalt to the Legal Attache the sttached memo

which la 1a response to his Inguiry-of 17. March 1966.

Attachment:

tache tartin tather Klas, J5.

Distribution:

2 - Chlefa

1208-7609661

COPY

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 9 Mal 1978

CROSS REFERENCE TO

latt

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION. A

201760466

DATE

30 March 1966

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no Information that Subject appeared at a

rally in

to date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge

of a future visit of KING to

Any future Information which becomes avallable will

be forwarded to you. " We have also taken due note of your

desire that the

authorities not know of your

Interest In Subject's activitles.

СОРИ

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DISPATCH

CLA: SITICATION

TO

COORDINATE LAST SENTENCE

OF ATTACHMENT WITH FBI

MAPLED FOR INDEXIM

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

FROM

SUBJECT

O Transmittal of leno to Legal Attache,

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Please transit to the Legal Attuche the ttached zero

which 1s in response to his Inguiry of 17 Karch 1965.

Attachient:

Vero ve bartin Luther Kings

Distribution:

JI°.

DOCUMENT AS REFERED TO #BL

CROSS REFERENCE TO

latt

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

CLASSIFICATION

30 March 1955

HQS FILE NUMBER

5Ỳ

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no Information that Subject appeared at a

rally 1n

to date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge

of a future visit of KING to

Any future information which becomes avallable will

be forwarded to you. We have also taken due note of your

desire that the

authorities not know of your

Interest In Subject's activitles.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

DISPATCH

TO

Chics of Station;

INFO.

FROM

Chief, WE

chief of Station,

SUBJECT

1) Transmittal of Momo to legal Attache,

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

CONFEDENTA

PRON CORINA APINNI

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALITICO DESH

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Please tranonit to the Legnl Attache the attached meno

which 1a ts response to his Inquiry of 17 March 1966.

leon 3. TOZALle

+8-7609411

Attachment:

teachme tartin Lather kins, Jx.

Distribution:

2 - CO3,

38/att

1: 2 - Chief, He watt

GS G07V

CROSS REFERENCE TO

do:150p70:78 21

02:19. 109139

Downgraded to

CONFIDENTIAL

a authority 5 00 1829

FULL TEXI COPY S

DO NOT RELEASE

CLASSIFICATICH REVIEW

CONCUOTES 04. 287261998

1a DET Ü BY 00 1 849

irc..cr3-018

1ut6

201 760466-

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

0W0A-19623

CLASS

AGATE

ATION

30 March 1966 ?

59

HOS FILE NUMBER

Khale BAl

---

## Page 6

13-00000

COMFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: MARTIN LITTER KING, JR.

We have no information that Subject appeared at a

rally in l

_to date, nor does the Embassy huve knowledge

of a future

visit of king to

Any future Information which becomee avallable will

be forwarded. to you.

desire that the

We have also taken due note of your

authorities not know of your :

Interest In Subject'a activities.

GS COPY,

alt Ell

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

- 1

it: 3,

116-0612-195

.....

' 6:

---

