# 104-10167-10399

## Page 1

104-10167-10399

DISPATCH

. BASSURATCH

SECRET

FPOCESSING

HAT!: FR MEIK

mie? of Stallos, suAVE

1070

Chief of BaBe, MaAR

F7aCAd

Chin, 1N/4

REACT

As. Coca-iDiostado

-US• Customs Agent, MBAR

70715011-025-92

" BASTESCT

8x0.4.i8

1. Follouing discusions anong. Erfe D. RODICi, Chief of Station,

NAVI; Charles 7. IDSTINSKI, Chief of luse, JBAR, and LIonal A. CHILADA,

Chie, MB/A/RISODA regurding the continond use of ir, Comar Miestado an e

VoS. Customs agaut at 79AR, Eesdquarters has mde arragements to.

reintere the U.S. Durans ol Custons for the use of 1a, Diontado'& servlons.

The termo of the af-rementioned rainburment arrungemnt with U.S. Custon

1a 4, Mareb 1962 to 30 June 1%2 at saich time the contined need fos

•Biostado's services vili be revimad and appropriate recamendations will

be made, Subject's perent offica vill contima to bear the expense of us

arrietel vablele nssigned to his. lo further comataenta vera made.

2o Tor your Information, the I.S. Castons Durean Intends to advire

•Mr. Mortado that to la baing rainbursed salerjuise by LUBARk. It 1e

regunated that Disstado be bricied by a lESTli representative pron elther

JHAVE Or DEAR us to him relationship wich un and thet this iaroration

BonE Bot be divalged by Elastado to otbar OUTOrE personnel or ary

otber Individual.

HAD OF DISPATCH

ALL CUSTOMS EQUITIES ARPROVED

FOR RELEASE IN FULL

03/25/98

3 5tts

Distributloas

2 - COS, WHAVE

2 - C0, JeAR

(CROES REPURENCE TO -

CLASSERCATICA

1 - VE/L/Personnel

- Ma/a/Security

OFFICE

OFFICE STREBOR

CAM loo

Wife, Baroe

or not niece

CAIR/L

DATE

(40

DATE TYPED

321ur9.226₴

EADOLIAITE

ORIG NAT. BUE

CATE EISPATCHED

19 WAR: *932

209t

Sa"y

e 53

Josopt lengen

OFICIRT SEATURE

G: 3. 2005%

NIEDATCH

---

