# 104-10179-10015

## Page 1

(104-10179-10015]

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

--.

EYES ONLY

SECRET

23 November 1960

Measage from Droller

AMRASP.

1. Under no circumstances will they (the group) accept funding via

2. Multary matter: They are very serious about 27 November. The

ronson-lo two separate plans they intend to meah into one:

.

04

b.

Intelligence therefrom for the freeing of Matos. They feel

that the man in charge of the Matos prison fe

The man will

probably bo tranaferred in the near future. Also, there le quite & likellhood

that)

will be transferrod. Their idea la that L

would go and

capture a fellow by the name of "Chino" then would make a very routine trip

with 10 ron down to the placo where the prison in, with the help of

fro* Matos, and they are convinced . and so in Barguin, who le thair milltary

planner - that with Maton free, "Chino" neutralised.

and Matos com

cantrol thie particular ares. The question de that they can control it but they

can hold ll only for a longer portod of timo ll they aro annurod of 1) adaquate..

a resupply and b) it 1e Important that "The Beard'" nir support for this aren

to be destroyed il posible. The reason they have picked the 27th le that:

a fraight bo tranatorred and bill!

might not stay too long therelore

they would ilke to move rather fast. What they would lke from ue 1ai

EYES CHLY

Sacali

SIBR

---

## Page 2

I come

EYES PILY

SECRET

=?-

(1) Certain intelligence data on air fields and mining.

(2) Advico how beat to noutralise the "Beard'a" air force.

(3) I we could neutralise the air force by dropping anti-aireraft

artillery to them.

3. While they will not accept the financing undes the AMRASP they Are

probably willing to have all this hardware support to be done in the name of

AMRASP and told me that the AMRASP pilota belong in fact lo them.

1. 1 (Droller) leit with them a $2, 500 chock and left the mattor in thia

way? that l se of today, cannot ses how I could change the funding arrangement.

that I muld get in touch with them about 1530 hours and lind out and tell them

whether or not they could expect further sessions with my military colleague.

Telecon from Droller

Notes Droller was still in the meatlag at 1210 houre in an apartment and there

was no pay phone near. He will call back between 1400 and 1430 houre.

CES CRY

---

