# 104-10110-10243

## Page 1

(104-10110-10243]

SECRET

18 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROM

: Mr. Ramon R. Hart

SUBJECT

:

Manuel F. ARIIME Buesa

#210 838

DES/ TOS

2345/70S

A35-/E05

k/t2

4~30

1. The first phase of the audio surveillance of the

Subject at the SAS safehouse in Bethesda has been completed.

The Subject left Washington, D. Ge, on 13 July 1963.

The

owner of the listening post, Mr I

103=0

moved out of his house, bag, baggage, and furniture, on

12 July 1963 enrouta to an oversess PCS assignment.

Mr. Charles MIT, the case officer in this case, has

savised that the subject, along with a Cuban companion, Mr.

Rafael Aurello QUIVIERO Ibarbia (#252 529), v1ll return to

Washington, D. C., to be billeted In the Betbesda safehouse on

Monday, 29 July 1963. Mr. MATT has fervently requested audio

coverage of the downstairs bar and telephone and the main floor

living room at this house in order to monitor the Subject's

conversations with QUINTERO during the absence of SAS case

officers.

The case was assigned to the District Fleld Office,

and Special Agent

Nas designated as responsible

agent.

It 1s Agent

on the rain or it ace or phones

telephone and string all the wires to a cravl space over the

garage. In that latter space, which will be kept locked, he will

set up two regular AC-operated tape recorders to be actuated by

the two VOR's obtained from Franconia and paid for by SAS. Un-

beknown to the Subject and his companton, a case officer will

have to service this equipment whenever an opportunity presents

1tsell.

c:.a

ASTS

PILSS

25<529

no: 17-19999

721171

RETURN TO CIA

se Only

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Page Two

#210 838

4. The cover story to be used by Agentl

the Installation is that he is working on the house at the

equest of the teason lashington deal estate agent, Mr

supposedly maintain

the house for a New York lawyer In order to billet the latter's

transient clients.

Case Officer MATT has engaged & maid to

those days.

It vas also discreetly requested by the undersigned

of Case Officer MATT not to kibbitz too mich while the techni

clans are making the Installation.

"radio" phase. The only complication will be in servicing the

recorders on a timely baste.

Remon R. Hart

ce: /H252 529

5%0

SECRET

---

