# 104-10102-10157

## Page 1

104-10102-10157

INDEX: DIES I NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO. -

FILE RIDD

RET.

TO BRANCH

DESTROY

D sIG.

FROM

ACTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

C/u= 3

EJ RID COPY

ISSUED

INFO

FILE, VR, ADDR, DE/U1t/C5, S/C1, e/E12

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITE:

UNIT

W'E

TIME

€ 835!

was pr8 1 99-8-84483 my topia poured

SECRET D41107Z

,20-2

IMM

IATE DIR INFOL

CITE

SOK KEYWAY PBRUMEN LESNAFU AMLA

REF

A.

DIR 15932

2971342-

DIR 14500

1332

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Raproduce

4 JuN65 N 82933

B.

(N76424)

Co

1.

SUBJ REFS CONTACTED

20-3 VALUENATU/S ON 25 MAY, TO REQUEST

AID, SUBSEQUENTLY REFUSED ON SECURITY AROUNDS, IN OBTAINING

SPANISH VISA AS REPORTED REF E. INAUDITION IO REF B, FOLLOWING

POINTS DISCUSSED WITH MIRRLESS WHO HAD

TVO MEETS YETH SUBJ ON 25 MAY, FIRST AT

MEET WITH

UNSNAFU/9 AND SECOND BAR HOTEL MAPOLEON TO GIVE SUBU

ANSWER ON VISA.

2. SUBU STATED HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH KUBARK 15 TIMES AND

15 TIMES HAD DISSOLVED RELATIONSHIP, STATED KUBARK LAST ATTEMPTED

•CONTACT HIM NEW YORI VIA ODURGE THO MONTHS AGO AND THAI, HE THEN

AGREED TO CONTACT.

SUBJ STATED NOT INTERESTED IN CONTACTS WITH LOW-

LEVEL TYPES, ONLY HIGEST PEPRINE LEVELS.

SUBJ STATED HAD MANY

HIGH LEVEL FRIENDS IN POPRIME GOVI. NAMED BOBSY KENNEDY AS ONE

WHO DINCE HELPED HIM OUT OF JAM.

SUBJ SAID TOOK PART MANY RAIDS

13191

---

## Page 2

A PERUMEN: CRELATED MANY "STORIES" OF EXPLOITS CO P29TZO PALES.

3. SUBJ SPOKE IN SAME VEIN OF DISCONTENIMENI OF "NO ACTION"

AND OF MADR GROUP, SPECIFICALLY NAMING (USPORI/I, AS DID AMLASH/S,

LUNSNAFU/9. AS REPORTED REF B, SUBJ STATED WOULD HAVE @USPORI/1

KICKED OUT (PRESUMABLY KUBARK) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

SUBJ AND

LUNSNAFU/9, AS WELL AS AMLASH/3, HAVE REPEATED EXPRESSED THEIR

HIGH

REGARD OF BELIEF IN AMLASH/1• NOW THAT AMLASH/3 IS IN PBRUMEN,

SUBJ AND /UNSNAFU/S SPEAK OF HII IN SAME RESPECI AS AMLASH/1.

SAID THEY ARE NOW RISKING LIVES AND ONLY

WAY THEY

WILL GET OUT OF PBRUMEN WILL BE STEAL PERNE AND ATTEMPT

O2.

ESCAPE.

UNSNAFU/S HAS STATED SEVERAL TIMES, SINCE APRIL BOTH IO

GLOADEN AND MIRRLEES, THAT "SOMETHING BIG" GOING TO HAPPEN IN

NEXT THREE MONTHS.

SUBJ AND[UNSNAFU/S BOTH STATED TIME IS RIPE

FOR ACTION.

-4

4. SUBJ ARRIVED IN

FROM LOND ON 21 MAY. WHEN MIRRLEES

ASKED SUBJ WHY HIS KUBARK CONTACIS IN PB.PRIME HAD NOT PROVIDED

NECESSARY ARRANGMENIS FOR VISA, SUBJ STATED HIS BUSINESS MADR NOT

KUBARK SPONSORED AND KUBARK NOT AWARE OF IT. SUBJ INSISTED

IT IMPERATIVE HE ARRIVE MADR 25 MAY IO SPEAK IO "IMPORTANT MEMBER

THEIR GROUP." SUBJ SAID ALSO SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN ZRMETAL BY 25

SENSE

Nit

---

## Page 3

20-4

82937

Page 3

-dULD NOT OBTAIN VISA HE WOULD HAVE

TO RETURN

PORPIME AND FROM THERE RETURN MADR LATER DATE. SAID IHIS COMPLI-

CATES HIS PLANS, SUSJ SOUGHT KUBARÁ ASSISTANCE ONLY AFTER WORMAL

VISA APPLICATION DETERMINED TO TAKE TOO LONG.

5.

WHEN MIRRLEES HAD SECOND MEET WITH SUBJ TO CONFIRM RESULTS

SAK WITH STOCKWOOD RE VISA (MIRRLEES FIRST TOL SUBS SHE WOULD

CHECK WITH HER BOSS BUT CERTAIN WOULD BE DENIED ON SECURITY GROUNDS

TWO FRIEND OF SUBJ APPEARED: MAN NAMED "FRANS" APPROX 25-29

STATED HAD KNOWN SUBJ LONG TIME. GIRL "DANIELLE" APPROX 20 DID

NOT SPEAK. BOTH APPEARED BE STUDENTS. MAN APPEARED EFFEMINATE.

SUBJ PROPOSED MIRRLEES JOIN GROUP FOR DINNER BUT MIRLEES DECLINED

OFFER AS HAD OTHER PLANS.

6. FROM ABOVE, IT OBVIOUS THERE IWO DIFFERENI STORIES RE KUBARK

CONTACT WITH SUBJ. SUBJ'S LINE OF THOUGHT EXACILY, ALMOST TO SAME

WORDS, AS THAI OF AMLASH/S, UNSNAFU/9.

7. REGARDING PARA IWO REF A, STAIION NOI AWARE COMMENT THIS SUBJECI

IN GROUPS NOT ALREADY CONNECIED WITH AMLASH ONE. FROM HERE PROB-

LEM SEEMS BE THAT AMLASH CIRCLE IS WIDE AND EACH NEW FRIEND OF WHOM

WE LEARN SEEMS TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF PLAN.

SECRET

---

