# 104-10164-10128

## Page 1

104-10164-10128

EAFDENTLAE

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

JHCH-2272

EPORT APPROVED IV: Meadron Ga 021m,

DETRITION.

DUMPER PAGES:

MUNDER ENCLOSURES. MOME

DEFERENCES,

Jon

Orally an

BOURCE CIYPTONYNAT

APARS

SOURCE, OPERATONAL DATA, ANO COMMENTS,

17N1 TIRe Ns 10-205-111

IG NO..

C Ne

Bubjest Attitade of Intha Anerican Doveranent Loadera

DISH 21.32

2880265297

AS 01-59 one trans tat do ter

C8 COPY

Метра

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

Dont & don

Lander

DERO NO.

HIA3

AN OF ADORE 2Y daMiAry I9E6

NO. OF PAGES I

DENERENCES

MATE OF

Hovember 195)

PLAC &

DATE ACO. Cuba, llabana (22 January 1960)

SOURCE EVAIUATIONS ALE DEFINITIVE. APPLAISAL OF CONTEN

SOURCE.

Member of ND0 (F).

Appraisal os Contents a

IS VENTATIVE, NOTE ORIGOINO EXPLANATO

During November 1959 several membere of the Cuben Moviniente

Dender ta Criatiano (iliC, Christian Denocre tle ilovement)

vialtod Peru, Chile, Ernail, and Venezuela In an attempt to obtala

support for the fomation of the HIC. In Cuba.

The Cuban

•Mation wa discussed with top Government leaders in ench

country, all of whon expresned official opponition to the

present Cuban regime.

They worried about the spread of the influence

o1 Fidel CASIRO, and some vere fearful that he was gaining

mupport within irs masses" in theis on countries. They all

expressed the desire that CASTRO be contained within Cuba.

Fron

• personal standpoint

however; each

government Leader, without

meption, was delighted with CASTRO's antics, and said that 1t me

« personal gratification to see soneone so preoccupy the United

Bta tea Government.

1/39

001F11

6S COPY

DISTRIDUTION

201-268277

---

