# 104-10167-10137

## Page 1

104-10167-10137

PL) = PeDRO LoS DIARy's.

(-91) = JESE MARCOS

(C) : Ficlel CASTRO

31 July 1959

MEMORANDUK FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Debriefing of Jose Marcos DIAZ y LAnE

28-29 sily 1959, Tampa, Morida

1o Kr. Pen C. Braze and Mr. J00 I. Then arrived In Tampa at 2415 28 July

1959 and were not by Mr. Bernard Riechardt. We Innediately went to the Hilla

borough Hotel where we registered as Ben C. Elliot and John I. Taldy respec-

tiTely, Misting Departent of State aa place of employuest.

office of security.

3. Subject was using the name karlano JHEZ y Gones, which appeared

on his IskS identification slip.

habject was debriefed, almost exclusively In English for five boum

a 28 July and again for approsimately the same anount of time on the 29th

5. Sabject was cooperative, responded to all questicas, and appeared to

bo under so s4.a55.

To did inquire about his invily in Cuba and the there-

abouts of lis brother Pedro Iula, but eviaced to graTe concert.

6. Subject's views, as related in the attacbed, are probably colored

by his respect for Pedro late and a desire to demonstrate be brother's lapor

toppe, steture, sod roio la ta futuri oi Caba.

No security problems vere ancountered.

Ben C. Evans

Attachments

Debriefing report

RETURN TO CLA

Beckground Uns Onl

Do Not f

115R

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1.jp!!

17E E.2 32.15 OF FIR

lo Juan incidi, a yes san to No sino can't fly and nows nothing about

aircraft or air forces, has fired 19 olficers fror ?iR since tering over, azong

then sere the best piolets.

2o there are presertly 15 or 14 pifiots in sir and only a or 7 are ary goodo

So Status of ircraft.

Jets:

Total 5. l riil fly.

furrys:

Total

20a 5 will rigo

Total

lotal

2

cario

ine in bad trace

one bein? re aired.

Bell Heliocat cocal 7

One burned recently

326

sotal liorgot to ask it, but he did say they cad no spares for the.

1.5 nillion rds .50 cal

15 to 25 500 lo cozose

"some rockets.

rava talen all 50 ca" if fros F-,7*s and put on tricods for ground and air

deferie in argas iore sney exfect attacke

111 mechanics are forcer 3atista persornel. lost replacement and rejairs

done is cancbilizin

7. PC is trying to get jots fron venz. io details on tri.

8. FAR employs 1l Chilean Instructors at 3750/ez/50. in the presence of J

Fo asked thes if tey vere ready to fight for cuba, and since they vere hired

for instructors thej didn't know rat to say

So irainingo is established a prer-crool for persons uno ranted to take the

exans for flight training, located saracoa, Farana, In sar 59

bad 350 squients 190 of -nich vere illitorate. F.c.dola hin

that theru sas no need to sake oxess, that he din't kunt an

"fanci-bors" but vanted niolets lire the vapanese ilit

thet rould go were they sere told.

10. Other Air: CURATA ADO POSTAL. Fas li Colors, Under direction of Capt

fou SEIDI who sends cane every 3 or l days to Miant to

muggle In arms. IN believes SEIDY 18 cordo (See Ló)

CUBAMA Als Liness. FC fired all experienced piolets. You

operating at 3400, 000 per month lcs.

11, 26 Jul forces Distritutions lavaza: 3000 of which 1200 Fill personnal.

Cabana fortress: 1co.

'antaza 300, Santa Claras 300, Canaguey 825,00.

Santiaço de Cuba: 3-5000, Pinar del R1o: 700.

3000 llavana

2000 EIsertere:

cannel

---

## Page 3

winnt a

Fors02a7 lats

Đ:S 1928

Ecucations

Fazily

Kate

Sergio

1947

uit arians, ion. in ISisã. Did not gre: late:

Flicht Instructions irivate intruction at santa le dir ort

in 1950

age

39

Location

Us

Rel

Brother

Reinaldo

23

sorg former pilot in 26, arro ted and released)

Eduardo

20 .

Harasa

Brother

Pedro luis

Jolanda

sister

(arried to Castain Ricardo Z1:07, ZEIS, ZENOS 99P LE-P, stetioned in

KY State sith

"Eudo Ricardo has been ordered to ilaska for 35 Eas, so

Jolando is in Eavana to have ber 4th childo)

15

la vana

Esther

Esther lasz Garcia

Havans

(ilon texing shock treatrents for nerr brká foll Pl departure. )

Fedro lilis DIAZ Rivero

Havana

Vicento disI Garcia

(seo d

Sister

Nother

Father

Uncle

Position

Inspector General,. F.il.

in described this cosition as being the

sage as Deputy Commander or 2d in comrand of FiR.

Revolutionary activity:

Spent entire period working in 26 underground in

Havana. Princical tack wa- to arranze for shimment

of arms to cantlago. In this regard he korked closely

with dugustine CiF0a See NOTE. ilso vorked dith iajor

thu DIljO in Havana undorgrounde

5I660 (0)

SPORET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

•Corather 2u O' PARREL.

SE0P3

DALS

look

lio: that it is out of Cuba,

asical "contact ban" bes nonto aparte to be his

PLy kisself and anti

Ca750 elezerto in Cuba. JN. intonis to rave nis cose to

Nizai periocically for his purpose. Fe is foring a

Isrge antic organizacion,

is in toich with Yar

1ai0lig 3G-ülli, and cirsicent elerents in Fño Ji has

Iron him since 1956. Ee is sbout 50 and has descried as

being a dan fool for being so outsoren in anti-ic

feelings. i7! intends to costact him -rough the Catholic

eenient Faire: Dozinicos, San Juan de Lotren, located in

the jededo jestion, Fatana on 19th Li betteen J&I

• 2 Bafael 30-EiLO

Located in Miani as principal emmemor

• for operations

covering radiatin's plans and setirities, herorts

go "jirectly

Has beer in liars for 3 ros, all sau all trese reporte go until

•the tire de left office.. JM intends to consct him in Eavana and

see reces: reports and get copie: of all reports for his use.

Feels 3io vill coo eraie. iccording to botello's retorts

•PEDRican des 68,500 ren, 8 F-51's, 2 3-26 and a total of 30

planes. 1-700 Len in Cubee according to ilsetite, PEoUzA vill

attack casa within 50

days by land and sea, xith landings on north

coasto eti thinks ¡byA

perzitted FID. zi elerents to land weazors

in 2d iss=. Escabray with ides that F.C. and PEDRiZi can fight

It out trey 2d ipout can nove in and capitalize on a reakened F.C.

end seize control of situations F.C knows all the decils of these

prepura:ions in santa Domingo and therefore vill attack. On the

other her TRUJILio will encourage FIDRuis to attack duòs.

3o Juan Fernandez CiS TAO (B5), Preiently working in FiR Inspocior Genorals Office.

Loyal to El ¿ Mi. Jas a Vi

resident's. visa works with the

"Caradie,".. JIN intends to contact thru famer 0' Farrelo

•Ho "The Canadian"

Lat bt da Canadias IFe F.C. set tin on trip to Canida where ho

askod i he could como to cuba and work wish 26. Arrired in May

59. jorn in Cuba os Canadian rarentso huigned to Ji"s office

when he excressed knolodge od just how Russians work based on

his experience la Occupation duties in carsary. insigned by

JK to

-yask in the offico of Chied Political Polica

« repori on extens of com-lo penetration also told to cultivate

Maria fice 3E l sacrotary of foca

---

## Page 5

14-00000

So It ifren PIC: =30(25)

LE citizeno insigned os if to sore vita arecial

on details. This group, vorzing direstly usder Faul Castr

at e rouse :1n dice Biltrore jection of Farana. On 25 or

25 juno he re orted that gus and sec:le are ready

for irrasion as a farn in inar del 2i0. Jole cen contact

thru (3).

• 6) Capt 1lfrodo 3:2221 (26)

Cajef o? Intelligence ?lE, resignei aiter ph fled

but resignation not accented by iC becau e be icer toe

sucho ?oCo assed his io sork in his, ine Frire linisters

Orfice, valec he is icing bus still retains res onsibility

for fiä Intelligence. jee?)

J! feels that ho and Pl

ean count on his for siziort.

Go sajor Jose Mario suzy ste or adjutant (38 da command) so Endor, 7aão 8led to

Mani after Ph resigaedo

Mi (8à Gast fastel 202i (26)

NiC. Jo lajor 3enigao DIlZ

Fayaster of Fil. Resigaed wen Fi reigned. In touch

vita 1a10tà and Oi. For in Havara.

Best piglot in PAR, 19 yrs excerience in if fled to

Kiani shortly etter ii resigned and sent Jk word shen

he arrived ICH Miani. Fired by duan iIDs

Excellent pilot fled to kiari :..=

мi мд

Aló Captain Hubert HairST

11o

Lt kanuel C:520

Capt Gastos = 21:14

Corander 326 aircrat. Kerain in FiR, bit Anti-FC.

• Pursuit »

(14 Cast Carrers ROLiS

Cept Ronaldo Filico

• Jet

•

Chier Supply FiR i

las piblet who fler 0 back fror Bogata In 1948.

Resigned woen Ph lei. riR and now in hiding in Havans

Lto Manual Giti0+

Piolet, PARo Firod by ALEIDA

Came to Ja's house "he evening Il resigned (1 Jul) and sugreated thes

"saco to the hills" togetner and rigat roC. (12-1617)

ME 18. HaJ Intonio COREGILLA Prod by iNEr Da, best splotartzator 2n PiRo

¿rocitly hiding in rando

if 19. Cast 8100 Sul361 (26)

Pired by alicialo Pidlet FiR. Frobisly

In Ear.

Moa cart Garcia EIGUS$258

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SEIT

sorced vita Fl in santisio de Duba, cas the ose ino sa: the

Aussian suizarine in trat area duria revole aseure isst to

isspector venirus (JH) 2:8 and reigned sinon Fà leit Pik.

Capt Ecuario FERREP. Meplaced dù as inscecior jeneral der illi

igustize Cito

des areasurer for 26 during Rorolo las slattsà to be l'ayor of

serana, But since ne m coaretent engr assignad task of

constructing large radio installation at Dos 2i25, Rio Cauto,

Oriento Frore iiici hariles all coto for feroie expeditions.

Plant sas completed in tarch 59 ari ce not siren any son of

reponsicility nim dúo tou sup cris au and vas in touch with

Il nao intends to conticte.

Dia Juan Rodriquez FITZ DO

Eas organized a group of pro-essional ren who are anti-

PoC. cilled Recugeracion Icocratica, vore :ras. working

wits this trou, in Harena anà con get in touch with

thr10000IX16021 Tilitico iee 25

Jorge TILLiLTio

Kenner 26 julo ige 3ho Tel 30733 soce di to me comont inere he

evace an engr stu. les surar intere-te

ictive during

2. jajor iiii ini

27. intonio lano Toi

"Ias tan" for F0. Seied :sericen regertier in Isle of Fines

Förner Public Inforaition Officer for FiR. Fires by Che Guevarra

1 kar 59 because he ¿rose article in FiR publicition which asked

idy the Indoctrinasion icnool st ferane Forireis was necessary

F0 during his student sous at rabane U. and knois

sose of the shady check ausiness le sas in et tre tige. Non

voricing for Carteles Magazine. Jhí plans to concicto

Je worting thra his (3:9. IN S) vile prenered & detailed plan

for the capture of she Isle of Pines and relesie of Barquine and

Na jor 3arjonet, but sten Ji and Pl presented plan to Fo, he turned 2,

it down because sarguin- treré.

29. ArBAndo SEENLDEZ

Of icial in Laucation Ministry, Friend of JM rho alarmed at comie

influence there.

30. Fatior FIlla VERDE MIRANIX In souch sitia 3fuuirio also Friend 09 (l) and Jia

151. Major drundo FLIDa

-na, dont to FC a fer day beforo PL resigned and saide

"wo are with PL"

32

MajOr CLION (Loi)

Commandente Huber Ni:00

3to Patier Cilis y1

wich 31 to 30e F.6.

Has 2500 mort undes his cosard in Cata say Froy

•"ont with

Pather CiLlE to la Plata wien iC was to sign land Kerorm Law

in an e'tort so put pro-sure on his to liberaliza nessure.

Soo 330 Loested at Centrul dielaida, 33 sould support Plo

---

## Page 7

14-00000

IDEIZIFIED iS CONTIE

indres alicilos larIze.

Chief of 3aso at san intonio, "ar (Batisia Field)

Herber Of since 1935. Director of Politica: Indoctrination

School.

130. 13t tho unturo Lies

On 15 Bay sent to PAR. lig to be political/cultural officer

for 1R. Tery close to Baul Cu 150. Pl objected end had

arquerer. sith PC.

ut thinks te is now in jeras doing done

business with 3ell Helico, er Co.

31. Doctora

Pau 3.28 -7

lives rigot across the street fros content cere Ja bid out

19

N8.256

Udo.

See (1) for address. Fathergtold it she old camies and trat

on day U7:0.i: ousted RiLL CETRO net there witn others for

Sa labe Traite

4 hese

38. Haria

for fair user

"are of bajor Dollo ü.z2 OciO:. Russian born and Secretary to

PO. MARIA WITESKA DZYDNEZYASKA. DEB

Garcia TELIZ

Chief idsinisirative Asst to Raul CSTRO.

10, Sta Victor PIll Cardoza In Officer betreen 217 and Rill's office.

41o Carlos safel sorzila. Revolucion

426. Carlos FRUKUI

Director Zerolucion

43, Osmay CIENTIBIOS

Brother el Conileo Diractor of Political/Cultural Indocirinalion

for all armed Forces.

44. Rajor Feli- TORRES

45. Capt imi SEMIDI

Milliary Cormander Iaguaji, las Villas,

2d in formand, Santiago de Cuba. Close friend of Peulle mite.

Director CUBAN! iRO PO. Tile 3 or 4 days before Pl resigned

told kis he thougit comunisa good thing for Duba. Flys to

Hiant almost every day stugzling ars.

i Camilo Cicafregas

craner

1751100797-Фр

---

## Page 8

17. Alberto 2150 Cosgaya

48. Carilo CISMUstoS

490

Cast fou CAPITO (26)

150. Capt fai RAPOLEOY

51,

Paul EUGES

qui

JaJ. Ded FartInez PAIL

52;

5 3: Had Soft 12507

8.

Captain in ii, pilot, suspected by Ju and others

of being a queer.

Alberto 347C Giraud

training guerrillas at

Parara' Jeach in Lavana, M suggested that li we

Last details on that 1s going on at farara Beacia

that Roy leoster, owner of the beach, be contacted.

Y feels that while he is not & cornist be 1

aluenced by ti brother (4s, mo 15

In charge of arus and armo for operations egainst

Nicaragua. Pro

Ple lanted to resign wien PL

left 71R, but did not.

[escribed as working in sare special group ain

Kicaranain operations. (See 5)

also worlding with Mic ops group. JN said that

contrary to press reports be (FUJFS) tas never

arrested.

26 Jul officer hon JI feels will support Fl

In any future undertaiding and shon J intends

to contact thru (1)

* and hag

good contacts with cattlemen and sugar oners.

SERT

---

## Page 9

14-00000

55. Savad urasas

He-ber of a group called Castains of 26 Jal

J' us intouch sith lalisis through his fathere

56a erturo Til Pl and dis contact with the Ill Sanchez 12329%0

(dié) eganizatica

5 7. Carmandante -TEALSZ

Contact man between the CI/I? and the Tational

association a it-Officers sbodotade i= atich

58. 71

Incerte

Tate carole

a and Mi's father is active.

Facle of PL & iN who according to l! saved

1e life of Cay CISTUDS. Di State? that

(sway was senterced to death due to lis participation

1= a University student plot against ENTerA

SEONT

---

## Page 10

14-00000

STALLITE SURE POTE FREET SPINITICS

T.. 47

Los Caros, Coleste

IT StIP IrOn ices operations against Nicaragua vere

supported and will 'se in the future. Fold kas been

prepared for nigts carations, is lighted and has

radio control facilities.

Dos Pios, 710 Cauto

Crientea FroT

Large ?acio Intaliasion, extipuent purchased fron

Saltzerlando Compisted If 1n larch 59 StretcheR

Constriction super ised by Augustine Cirt, Sormer

Treas 26 Jul who Ionilsenchatued with FC. See 23.

This intallation cardes all tra 'ic Ia exceditionary

undertatings.

REVCLETICTIFY PLATISE GROUP

I. Physically located in a house fy the MIltaore Section el Earanz.

2, Horks uder direct superusion c Baul CiSTRO who gathayatia. does

nothing sore than pass orders to te group ron fidel szo

3. Hembers of this erous mentioned:

8 . Lt. hIren PIC:1ED0

(5)

bo

Capt Im CarveTE

(L9)

Cart fru Tapeleen

50)

do

Paal EUGHS

(51)

SERACT

---

## Page 11

14-0000

ERAN CROEN

+21I3019-1668

@pG-0.2E0

citaia

25:0

5-22:500

+U3==9,12÷03

MEN

CONTROL EE THIPRCU.CE

FEIME MINGOEELE

c.=

1-23303 3022201

SAINER

26 43N

VE: 10. A)

MANISTRI

Gradieces

PEZDE

REURIG.

FISAN DIR ERRE

1:408,3

|-E82

EBRCIEAERERIS

sin 65-560-112445

2+40ADEEs

1z52

ESCURREN DiASAROEO (8-26)

C2d SE 58232540)

1.29,0.

ESCUABICA ZE ARMANENTS AVO ANDNITIÓN DEPAT

MILHI IS CHUNG DES.DENiS -

casard.

- JORGE VILLALT

CAP. RAFAEL HIRVET

Lie

CAUTO GUTIERREZ MENING

LUA FRENTE DEL ESCAMORAY

S.R8C:02I0 220I0GENSO

CHDE, FAUDE GRAUMENT -

GIGANIZEO

iME

P20

MURENTICE DURASENE

0.1

CEMANIACIENA TENTICA

INDIRGZOINDI

UNINERSTVAND NUAUAD

FRELINCE.

203

SIAMENCO iN THE

AlIZ ECOCE.

300 MANGO LEFRONT

SILDIERS IN THE

DE QUE ESCOMBRAN

CACILITIES

.2

ANDL-AGI

ENUC6N

GUAS FJ2

AMUNITIEN

5ad

RATIOWS

---

## Page 12

?! .

eo.hue.t Me

acte dl f..

Ful PrTF

dale a pieetice lia

nit. a.?

Tilatrie

Fe unarci di dastis

...anila. auned'ieaiis.

rantAoptoroon oond

---

## Page 13

vere.

FATHIS Te

OFAiiriL

Jortar.

VILIATA

THE

Masinri

IN6

PHev,wiis

OR ANTRAIS VARONA

PROVINUES THROUEN

AUTINTICA PARTY

LEADERS

¿naLE, Villarres

ETC.

EN CATHOLIC CHURCH

MILITARY

ver

will die itali

1/2120302

26i JULY. DISSIDIVES MINA

•Aro, KASATS HUGUCT

CUBAN

AIRFORCE

ENRIQUE

CAERENAS ROLAS

JErE ESCUADRAN DE PENSECUCIÓN

7-33-560 FINYS -$510)

CAP. GASTAN

TErE

BOMBARDERIA

(B- 260)

CAP. INARIA

CABRERA

SELE DE SECURIOAD

CAP RINAIDO BLANCO

CUSATEL MAESTRE

LIP CARMONA

IN CHNEGE WENDONS End

CAP CARLOS

MERLO

CONTROL DE MECHNIGS

MOTE GOTTETE MANLYS

12.00 MEN ET

fange

LIBERTAD

300 AF PEILONIVEL

300 MeN si HILLs

• *

HAVANN

Fidu

SupporT

GILÁBLA

OPERNTIANE

alan de amion de

2 AIRSTRIDI

TAKE

GUNE POR

4900 MGA

---

## Page 14

'': MINNO

DISPUR:

THE D0U00id

ANI

1.111

ALaS

F

EX-OFFICER:

d F

TIE NATIANAL

GANGALET

ORGANIZATION

= DR. AURELIANO

ZANCHES APANCO.

¡CAMAGUAY

GARRISON

MATOS

17.500 MEN-.

Cod MR0ED0

Gurris

---

