# 104-10183-10117

## Page 1

104-10183-10117

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

SECRET. RAZOXITIZE:

INFO

THOM

DISPATCH

Chief, WE

ATIN:

C/VE/4

Chief of Station,

INSAVE

Chicf of Statio

715-41

1t5m 0

VIA: Courier

PROCESSING

Misio 1

Hair!: 1.4:5029 86

(D 19:68.N6 8O, 9E

CoT G8U19i

HIT MIES S

6001.308 18738

LESTEALT

ACTION REQUIRLO REFERIACES

ACTION:

Sce paragraph eight

.01

(see separate.

at Ponte

S.

Luigi (Imperia).

ANNHIP/I had a passport which is listed in the

separate cover attachment as Identity B.

Another report from the DEVIGIL Center in Genoa (No. 14204

December 1964) states that from the afternoon of 26 November

1964 until the following morning ANWHIP/l and Identity A shared a

róom at the "Parigi". Hotel in San Remo.

They were travelling in

a French automobile bearing Parisian license plates 1968 QD 75.

They left Italy on the afternoon of 27 November at Ponte S. Luigi.

An unnumbered report of 3 December 1964 from DEVIGIL

headquarters states that

on 28 November 1961 ASWHIP/1'

stayed at the "Bernini-Bristol" Hotel in Rome. On 30 November

ANWHIP/1 left Rome for an unknown destination.

Identity A left

the same day from Fiumicino Airport aboard Air France flight 633,

which departed at 0950 hours for Paris.

4.

During a meeting of ll December 1961 with DEVIGIL/27

BUNCE mentioned the presence of Aswllip/1 in Italy in such a was

as to suggest that we had known about it all along but that it was

merely a pleasure trip.

ANWHIP/1 did

not get in touch with

SMITHAM Or BUNCE during his

In point of fact, howeverge to 30 November

stay in Rome.

5. On 10 December 1964 AMNHIP/2 telephoned BUNCE's home from

his store here,

and arrangements were made

for BUNCE to pick him

up there the following evening because AJWHIP/2 wanted to take BUNCE

and wife to dinner.

When BUNCE arrived on 11 Docember, ANNHIP/1

was also at the store.

BUNCE talked with AMHIP/1 for

tell minutes,

during which time ANNHIP/l mentioned that he hoped to to to Paris

about 15 December 1961 and then to New York but made no mention of

his carlier visit to Rome, BUNCE then asked lin sogethelp is he

1..:

201-726079

14 Doc 1961

marion at do mine

CO1RA738996

201 -ASGHIP.'1

---

## Page 2

CORTEUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECSE- SEPORTE

had not been in Rome one to tho

AJSHIP/1 said that

he liad not.

BLACE said that he

inforzation that AWHIP/l had staied for two days

hotel on the Piazza Barberini.

Lissing quite flustered,

ASHIP, 1

•said that he could not understard sor

this fact had slipped his

Of course he had been here?

BUNCE pointed out that the

coverage here

in Rome

is obviously eificient and that he should

bear this fact in mind.

ANNHIP/1 repeated that he could not

understand how he had

forgotten his prior visit. The remainder

of the brief conversation was cordial.

AsHIp/ had told him about a visit made ten days to two weeks

En route to BUNCE'S quarters BUNCE asked AIWHIP/2 whether

earlier. ANHIP/2 said that AJNHIP.l had not divulged this trip

until the preceding evening, 10 lember 1964.

He said that he

then learned that ANWHIP/1 had beez accompanied by his mistress,.

Identity A. AMHIP/2 lamented the relationship. He said that

some time ago he had called ANWRIP.'l's New York apartment on

business and had been told by his wife to try to

reach AIWHIP/1

• at the store in the morning.

In this way, he explained, he first

learned that even in New York AMBIP/l sleeps with Identity A rathe

than at home.

He said that Identity A has AbWHIP/1 completely

under her thumb.

BUNCE asked whetzer he considered it possible

or even probable that AWHIP/1 discusses his work for us (i.e.,

AJWHIP, 2 said that he was positive he

tells her everything.

"I am not just 99% sure of this.

I am 100% sure."

He added that ANVHIP/1 also confides in

Identity A all details about their various business transactions.

7.

BUNCE asked whether AMAHIP/2 has any reason to suspect

that Identity A works for the PBRIVY IS or has any other connections,

direct or indirect,

through which information which she obtains

from AJMHIP/l might be relajed to the PBRUMES IS or government.

ANHHIP/2 answered that he does not think so.

He said that Identity A

is not a Communist and is anti-AMAlG. He also described her as

stupid.

8.

Although AJWHIP/2 did not place restrictions upon our use

of this information,

BUNCE does nor know how widely known is either

the ANNHIP/l-Identity A relationship or the extent of AMHIP/1's

disclosures to Identity A.

It may be that if AMNHIP/1 were

confronted directly

with this matter and charged with insecurity,

spot ANHIP/2 as the source of our information.

possibility is strengthened by the fact that immediately after

BUNCE brought up AMWHIP/1's visit to Rome, AXAHIP/2 and BUNCE left

to spond the evening together, as AX HIP/l knows.

What action,

1f any, should be taken in respect to SHIP/l is plainly a matter

for Headquarters decision.

It is requested, however, that action

which would tend to pinpoint AsHlP? as the source of our infor

mation be avoided.

It is also requested that we be advised of the

action taken, ll any.

Further information supplacd by AIWHIP/2 1s being reported

separatoly.

...a..

IDENTITIES A A N:

Under

SeparAte

088801814889188:

all. 1158°

1=112

15-4

A.N.TP.I L. BENCE.

FOR INDETING: See Separate cover attachment

13+

NICHI SARA

##: +3098884886

---

## Page 3

W'E

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT

TO: (0122-38996

19zn a september 1925 (or

in Havana.

2. Identity B: Ordinary passport 13606 issued in Havana or

26 May

1963 and provided with a visa by the Italian Consulate in

Geneva on 24 November 1964. The visa is valid for 180 days and

repeated trips.

ait. Celia

INDEXING INFO: Index Carmen Silvia #VILLARELLO Tabares, DOB:

(or 1927) , Cuban

citizen, hag

unauthorized possession of classified information.

DES 16 1964

"...

---

