# 104-10229-10441

## Page 1

• 104-10229-10441

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATIUN

SECRET

10

19TO.

Chied MIDivialon

FROM

For cady Para

W/ATT. F.

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARXID ACE INMARING

NO INDEUIRE BIQUIMO

ONLY. QUALILO

MRAPQUANTIRS DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

2. F.

1/s/c

I9180

Chief of Station

BICH0112 m

AMBUD Medical Program

ACTION REQUIRED. RU ERENCES

Reforencos:

A. UFGA-25901, Para 1. (14 Sept 1966)

UFGA-25261, Para 11 (3 June 1966)

• UFGA-23072 14 Sept 1965)

D. UFGA-21058 (27 April 1965)

E. UFGA-19188 (28 December 1964)

F. UFGS-5352 (29 October 1964)

UFGA-18091 (13 October 1964)

H. UFGS-5186 (21 September 1964)

I. UFGA-17171

(17 August 1964)

Action Requirod: As stated in parngraph 3;

As reported in Referenco A, paragraph 1, the modical/vocational

rchabilitation program has reduced tie number of

individunls receiving

monthly modical dependency payments to six "hard coro" cases. One, of

this numbore a forlous medical caso who resides locally.

is funded by Garcin Linos.

The background of the

movo una provious correspondonce: with Hcadquartors rogurding resolution

the problem le contined in References B through I.

Being forwarded

Under Separate Cover are Attachments A, B and F, the case histories for

WICh Torwardod da historios of spectal Interosts Roforeme

and comment by the Medical Staff.

for annlysis

Medical reports originatod subsequont

to tho submlasion of the Referenco C roport and are being forwarded

Under Separato Cover as Attachments C, D and E.

as

2.

follows:

The current status of each of the remaining cases is summarized

1201(2901051) 8

Recelving outpatient trentment from Dade County Department

I Public Health Anti-Convulgiye Clinic, 6 A Clinic repor

dated 31 May

' 1966 statos that l

continues to hav

seizures which the Clinte le attempting to control by

medication. (Attachment A.) (U/S/C)

3, Attachmente U/S/C

A through f as described

continuod.

Distribution

J-WH/C w/1 cy each

Att. U/S/C

(plus l cy Dispatch

for each 201 file

w/pertinent Att.U/S/C)

GAGUP I

" CÃOSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SE CRST

DATE TYPEO

28 Sept 66

DATE DISPATCHED

OCT 6 1966

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA -26075

HEADQUARTERS INLE ARMBRA

19-124-25/5-3

• plus each 201 file

"OIN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

AIMIN

SACKET

61E 1142 Y

UFGA-26075

do

10(00017529

CANCER/BIndes demoved

Receiving outpattent

trcatment; most recently for a

kidney infection.

AMBUD-i states that it la incrodible

that Subject continues to 11v0.

The case is summarizod

in a report prepared by Di. Virgas in day 1966.

(Attachment 13) (U/S/C)

(201 281131))

Receiving outpatient care at Jackson Memorial Hospital

Department of Psjchiatry.

A 5 May 1966

the Hospital recommends that subject continuo undor

psychintric outpatient caro for at least another

ycar. (Attachment, 6)

(U/S/C)

TIENTAL

_(201(299101))

Continuing to roceive treatment from Dr. Mora who

wroto on ll August 1966 that Subjoct is vory 111 and

in need of furthor psychlatic treatment.

(Attachmont D)

(U/S/c)

1)(201(2927601)

Continuing to rocolve trontment from Dr. Mora who

I.

(Garcia Lines. 201 not

hyalinblo)

BLIND (Advanced glaucoma)

Receiving outpatient caro

at Jackson Memorial Hospital®

(Attachment F) (U/S/C)

3.6 It is roquested thnt the loadquarters reviewinghaction

doscribed in Referenco C for handling the cares of

bo oxpanded to include ill the remaining cases and that

• Inforned of the conclusions roached concerning the

ultinate disposition of these casos.'

1.

FYI.

An amount of $250,000 was originally authorizod

for tho medial plaso

tho AMBUD Program.

Expenditures under

this progian have roached a lovel of approxinately $215, 000 with

01lls outstanding at the present tine of $ 250.

that the cases remaining which liquiro medical treatment as

outlined above will necesstate the expenditure of sums in excoss

of this amount.

Philip G. ELMARD

austrian

---

