# 104-10121-10061

## Page 1

104-10121-10061

.. SEGRET

7 July 1951

HENCRANDUM FOR LEE RECORDS

SUSJECT g

BHITSKY, Boris Serimonich

The folloming infamation pertalas to the relationsaly ol

BEARISIOT,

AlRe BISET and Alerander DOLliEn

2. On 24 September 1958L

that DOLEuRI had been introduced to Allne MOSBY Chen

NOSBY was in airectacon e

A BELTSKIY TO MOB & Russian official at the Wussels Horaler

Bated caBy BEnNSKY is the head of the British divss1o0-o2

Radio Moscoy and was an Interpreter for tha Russians at the trustei

hosla fair. It tas understood that ELITSKIY bendled the fuster",

delegation for VORISHLOY when he visited the World Falr.

BELTISKIY

had previously

been in the tolted states with his father who vorked

WIth ANTORG 10 thO Late 2920's and emly 1930'B.

BELIesIaY atcondos

school is Bey York Cit

03

stated that Carl Kock or

his andy ceorge. youroy an sud

and stringer for AlCOTIa beta

cable 9447 dated 9' Septenber 1958 states

that

DOLBERG had received & letter fron a lady friend (MOSBY) os TuB Ja

Brussels wherela she asked bin nether he had contacts with the

TOSFE publication for Broboda in order that she could transmit 18

strict confidence Iriendly citicisus of the mgazine frou her friend

вдокуком8 і

DDS/IOS

The proper people DOLARa recesved at walged lettos containlas

construction sypathetle eriticiams of Svobods and suggestions

ADDS/IOS proving Its contents.

4: 37 /IOS

5°

7/ ID

Attached 18 e diagranmaticht sketch of the circumstences ag

chey existine regarde

3 tO BILITSKIY prior to bis recruituent for the Ats.

/OED

CI Support Del

1SA3

I5 B

July 1961

SECRET.

PROTO CLA

Gi's

IT ES

---

## Page 2

1990

5 Septerber 1958

SUB11034

205372/ A1IR0

SY, Barto

LiTired on: september 1955 hat ke hed attendos a courtal sun

of lugust liven by a Plas Aline HOBY. He stated thei

lorch faeriess unspapes Alliance, 18 Eb0u6 3 12480 01

fired fros a iro sertica intae ust for loving leaked i

Confidonial angazine. le etatol that she playa lootato una do

ond is a comeristenco too, stated has she is a vosy soon urines toolse acterco

E3 ® SLINgCS TOP RAM Baố thai BO haà mood 930 08 3m0 95 10:

after To ting then

Also in atton saco at

irchnician with Rodio Moscow.

Invitation be askod Mas MosBy bot to act any latel laces tyra

se the docktall party must is aparataly 38 yaro al

thar, BELTISTY has beco criticized by the regio lor ble seidedu

rUb Vesterners so that at other than soctal airairo shes Eurrens Me

Vestem correstondents bo merely elves a nod bus shes ho is in solem

mite Selendly, Ho apparently has loss nonay thea other corrosponse

It was lensmed that hehad saved a 1164le met cEs ai & boss 200

He had naked a Miss Fleda Lut uho is e correspondont at tha pross s

Et the Inoritson if she could bet hin into the Casino Ostendo athous.

his hering to anon any crocertials.

He vas fion log to go on the like ene

5ts of Septenber.

To intoration was passed to Chris coa chideo oute

EsTani dos anked 38 additional Inionation on bin soma outta

First to take a rida so the comntry.. I asked ICa to try and sut mro..

biogrophie dats on BELISE, Mora bia lantly was, was hid lather son ?

doingo hou long he was going to be in Brunsola. On 5 Septaber Me, Moen n

undor STALIN and arparently not too friendly to theregiao but mas basseally

nationalistie.

I asked Ho dUCh 1I be hab maào an epproach ro tựn too lo

said definitely no.

Moo soch is preparing a gosort with all intoraation.

Us seport till be forthconing thin the nest too os theren deso

---

## Page 3

Ma sem devh

SI02

9721

*70Y01

628004)

AD2024

T0O01

MOSTRA

8326-2

2312100

:..: 76.79.89.5

в р%

: 402 406

WE414

AN M909

12r ds 1051

naserario tre

TOS

SIU

---

