# 104-10165-10174

## Page 1

104-10165-10174

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• TOTAL COPIES

#-ARE TO PILE NO.

FILE MIOD PET. TO BRANCH O

BESTIOr OsIe..

16-10

SECRET

AEPROOUCTION PROMIBITED

NOTIFILO

MR PAPCLI

LOCE COP

BaFO

ША-ї

Q RID COPY

Once .... .....O./19/ 3000

EM, Vy Aod?, C=, c= /955, FE De. 4. Du/H: 3, WHiC -8, CA: 2,

30 AsG 65W 42286

SECRET 322222I

81 AUE 1965 1L16-26

IMMEDIATE WAVE INFO IMMENSEE

16-19

746

1E FOLLOWING AFIEH I NARGITION GITH PUNKER AND BENNETT:

AMCORE-2

NOW VISITING WITH LAS FIMSSIN 110ES LOCAL!. ME HAS ADVISED THE COMMI-

SSICY "THAT SOMETNING WIL: SNUFEN AT :990 LOCAL KIMBERT IV RESIGNATION•

AND THAT IF COMMISSAON WILL BE AT THEIR HQS "SOMEONE (IMBERT)

WILL VISIT COMMISSION AT 2I30 LOCH.

2. PROBLEM: INCREJIBLE AS IT MAY SEEM, AMCORE-2 PRE^SURED

INEERI INTO ADVANCING RESIGITTON BY ASWAUNCINS THAT IT NECESSARY

THAT HE CAMCORE-2: AND ENTOURAGE HAD IMPORTANT BUSINESS IN

FLORIDA ON 31 AUGUST. BUNKERS WAD ATTEMPTING COMPLETE

NEGOTIATIONS SOONESIS VERY PLEASED, DURING MEETING WITH OAS

AMCORE-2 ADVISED THA! CHARTERED COMINICAN AIRCRAFT BROKEN

DOWN. BUNKER AGREED IFA: LAS WOULD ATTEMPT TO HELP. AT. THIS

POINT EUNKER LEFT MESTING TO CONTACT 2E

SAID HE WISHED

KUBARK ASSISTANCE IN OBTAINING ARCRAFT FOR MORNING

31 AUGUST, SUGGESTING

REQUEST PLANE FROM GENERAL PALMER.

WOUISED ASELITE THIS.

IN LATER DISCUSSION WITK BENNETT HE MOST

EMPHATICALLY AGREES AMTORE E AND TROUPE SHOULD NOT TRAVEL ON USG

AIRCRAFT. NOW BUSKER, BENNETT ANd

BELIEVE ALTERNATE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

7/PJ

---

## Page 2

IN422822

RIVATE AIRCRAFT SHOULD DE OSTRENED FOR TRIP. WISH TO CARRY

THROUGH IF POSSIBLE, BUIVER BELIEVES ANCO E-2 TRIP AND EFFOPIS

JOO GOOD TO SE TRUE. AND WISHES, AS S:5

TO GE: RNCORE-2 OUT OF COUNERE UNIDE WE ARE SO

FAR AHEAD CE

THE GAME.

3, CAN WAVE ARRANGE CHARTER DO 3 OR OTHER APPROPRIATE

AIRCRAFT TO DEPART WAVE EARLIEST HOURS 3: AÜGUST FOR ROUND

TRIP TO MEAMI?

CAN HANDLE LANDING AND PEFUELINE PROSIENS.

PERHAPS "BUSINESSMAN FRIEND" OF

AMCORE -2 COULD MAKE APPROACK,

PLAYING II: ADVANCE? LATER TONIGHT 130 AUGUSTI

ISHT

ARRANGE LONE DISTANCE CALL FROM ANCORES-2 TO "FRIEND" FOR

COVER FURPOSES. OR IS MADE IN CONTACT WITH SECOND PEPSCW

IN ANCORE-2 GROUP WHO COULD ARRANGE: LEAVE TO WAVE DISCRETICN

BEST AND MOST RAPID METHOD IMPLEMENTINE ABOVE. WOULD APPRECIAOTE

¡A' IMMEDIATE REFLY WITH ESTIMATE DE-POSSIBILITY AND 13) PEPICIC

REPORTS DURINE NIGHI ÜF HOW EFFORIS GOING:

4. APPPERCIRIE WAVE'S SPLENDID ASSISTANCE VIA AMCORE 2.

KE RESFONDING EXCELLENTEY TO

GU! DANCE DESFiTE

DIFFICULTIES OF SECURE MEETINGS: ALSO REALIZE DIFFICULIY

PRESENT REQUIREMENT, WMICK SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED; WOULD

5/pd

---

## Page 3

14-00000

+80908-05g

IN +z120 P83

PUT THE ICINE ON A VERY NICE OPERATIONAL FAVE.

3. DIR: ASSÄME DIR CUNCURS DUE DIRECT FEGUEST

FROM BUNKER AND BENNETT AS WELL AS EXTREME PRIORITY PLACED

ON THIS MOREMENT BY THEM.

SECRET

CFN G4 6746 BUSKER BENNETT AMOCRE-2

DAS 1645 LOCAL IS00 LOCA: IMBERT TU

HIS 2130 LOCAL

AMCORE-2 FLORIDA 3: AUGUST JAS OAS

§GENERAL PALMER NO?

"RAVEl USG

31 AUGUST MIAM

32 MUGUST

WAVE WAVE'S DIR

DIR

KUBARK. MORNING 31 AUGUST

16-10

WAVE DE- 3 EARLIET HOURS

WAVE

BT

STEST!

5/pd

---

