# 104-10124-10247

## Page 1

104-10124-10247

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD

(Submit in triplicate - see HR 20-37)

SECTION A

EMPLOYEE

NO.

2- NAME OF

PERSON RECOMMENDED (Last. First, Middle)

3. POSITION TITLE

003820

GRADE

5. 5D

Moore, James Walton

6-

OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

Field Office Chief

7. RECOMMENDED AWARD

GS-15

DYD

Dallas Field Office

• INCLUSIVE

DATES FOR

WHICH

RECOMMENDED

Career Intelligence Medal

D. IF RETIRING. DATE OF RETIREMENT 10.

POSTHUMOUS

1940 - 1977

December 1977

YES

NO

1. HOME ADDRESS

5145 Rexton. Lane

Dallas, Texas 75080

12. HOME

PHONE

214-368-4199

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE.

3. FULL NAME

LIST ANY PERSONNEL GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD WHO ASSISTED IN THE ACT OR PARTICIPATED IN THE

14. TYPE OF AWARD

SECTION C

ATTACH NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION

OF PERFORMANCE OR SERVICE WARRANTING AWARD, ANY SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AND A

PROPOSED, UNCLASSIFIED CITATION.

1. Attached narrative description of performance.

2. Attached proposed citation.

SECTION D

15. TIT

AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE MAKING RECOMMENDATION

ant, bon se Collection Division

16.

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

DATE

24 August 1977

DATE

HEAD OF

D

CAREER SERVICE

(Career

service of nominee)

See Item 18.

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

DATE

17.

DEPUTY

DIRECTOR

OF

CAREER

SERVICE

See Item 18.

18

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF

OPERATING COMPONENT

СРИ

1-73 600 CBSOLETE

PREVIOUS EDITIONS

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

DATE

03

1s/ Rubert D. Brown. Jr.

Deputy Director for Operations

CLASSIFICATION

RETURNTO CIA

CONFIDENTIAI

Background Use Orift Ca. Br 0106507

(4)

MBR

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

Section C

Mr. James Walton Moore is hereby nominated for a

Career Intelligence Medal in recognition of his substantial

contributions to the missions of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation,

the Office of Strategic Services, the

Strategic Services Unit and the Central Intelligence Agency

for more than 37 years.

J. Walton (Jim) Moore spent most of his boyhood (1920-27,

1930-36) in Shantung Province, China with his missionary

parents. Following graduation from Hardin-Simmons University

In 1940, Jim Joined the FBI and served as a Special Agent ir

both Chicago and San Francisco.

During the latter assign-

ment he reported on pro-Communist elements in Chinatown and

directed a US Government panel

to interview aliens and US

citizens returning home to ensure that enemy agents were not

slipping into the US as refugees or foreign businessmen.

Jim joined OSS in November 1944 and was commissioned

as an Ensign, USNR. His first assignment was in Kunming

where he recruited and

trained Chinese agents to infiltrate

Japanese lines.

While in Kunming he took parachute training

and on August 17, 1945 jumped into the Japanese internment

camp at Weihsein.

Following evacuation of refugees he

became Chief of Mission in Tsingtao. Returning to the US

In December 1946, he was reassigned as Vice Consul and

in Dairen.

reaching Dairen

Soviet intransigence prevented

additional year until transferred as

so he remained in Isingtao for an

Calcutta, arriving there in April, 1978.

27

Jim returned to the United States in October 1949 and

joined the Contact Division, Office of Operations, CIA.

CD/00 policy favored continuity and Jim was no exception.

From 1949 to 1954 he served in the Houston Field Office and

from 1954-1972 as the Resident Officer in Dallas. The

Contact Division evolved into the Domestic Contact Service

and a reallocation of resources raised the Dallas Resident

Office to Field Office status.

Jim was the obvious choice

for the job. After nine months training and preparation in

Washington (where he performed admirably) he was

assigned

as Chief of the new office with responsibility also for

Resident Offices in Tulsa, Houston, New Orleans and, even-

tually, Austin.

EZ IMPDET CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

Z/BR

---

## Page 3

...

Section C (continued)

Jim's work in Dallas has been consistently excellent.

Under his leadership the Dallas complex has provided timely

foreign intelligence in response to worldwide priorities

and requirements.

As an example, in April 1975 the Acting

Director, Stratetic Research commended Jim for "outstanding

performance" for urgent special efforts to obtain information

which resulted in a reduction of over 500,000 in the

Intelligence Community's estimate of the total number of

Soviet military personnel.

Similarly, the Dallas Office has provided excellent

support to the Clandestine Service.

In November, 1976 the

Chief, FR Division commended Jim and his staff for "outstanding

support" from October 1975-October 1976 in efforts which

were "indispensable" to the establishment of FR assets in

-Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana and in identifying and

assessing prospective targets for recruitment.

There are very few persons of potential consequence to

the Intelligence Community in Texas who Jim Moore does not

know and little that he cannot accomplish there on behalf

of Community and Agency requesters.

The assassination of President Kennedy in Dallas in

November 1963, the subsequent allegations against CIA

and

Jim Moore's long association with Agency interests and

programs in Texas have made him a repeated target for media

attention and scurrilous innuendo. Although under various

forms of severe external pressure as a result, Jim Moore

never lost his calm,

cool demeanor and has been absolutely

dependable in adversity.

An experienced professional, a true gentleman, a delight-

tul person, and an example to be

emulated, Jim Moore has

been a real credit to the intelligence profession.

As he

approaches retirement, he richly deserves recognition in the

form of the Career Intelligence Medal.

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2 -

---

