# 104-10255-10208

## Page 1

104-10255-102087

SECRET

Headquarters Field Office

Date: 25 November 1957

TO

SUBJBCT:

Chief, Investigative Division

RAIKIN, Spas T.

#134669 GV-IB/5

1. listed below are the results of the RI checks scheduled In

connection with the above-mentioned case:

A. SERVICES - No Record

NPII

See Attached

B. ARCHIVES - No Record

NPII

See Attached

2. The result of the k check is attached hereto.

Plit

WILLIAM P. CURTIN

Special Agent in Charge

DDS/I&S

ADDS Aftachment:

KIheck Results

SSD, Chiets Nemo

Dep Chel

A. le Chief

A 1. Dep

Ad & Trng

Ch Ino Br.

Ch Sup Be

Ch C&R Br

Dest its - 1

Desk S8.

Desk CRB =

SECRET.

---

## Page 2

34-00000

- i :

20 Horanbe= 1957

SUBJECT: RAIKIN, Spas I.

RI document 12-7-10-575 is an intelligence report on an zirfield

in bulgaria, source of which was Spes Todorov RAIKIN, Zaravko

Kostadinoy DAMIAHOY and Stefan Fetrov FELEIEROV, three Trudorais

who on 6 lay 1951 deserted their unit and nade their war to Flovdiv

and then to Greece.

The reason for their desertion wes to join an alleged illegal

group worlong in the mountains south of Plovdiv. Unable to raice

contact with the group they wandered around the mounteins obieining

provisions froy relatives and frierds. Unable to hold out any

longer they entered Greece on 19 June 1951.

Through interrogation it was learned that Spas fodoroT LIKI

was born 20 October 1922 in Zelenikovo.

he is single and has two

brothars, Petur and Stoya, who ara farmers in Zeleniloto. His father,

Todor Petkov FAIKIN, is living and ip also a farmer.

Subject

finiched the Theological Seninary in Plovdiv and the Pheological

Faculty in Sofia.

He then taughi for one year on the Sofia Faculty.

On 5 April 1950 he wes called up for nilitary service and assigned to

Bezmer airfield until 22 December 1950 when his unit was transferred

to Balchik airfiela.

communisn in

.found it world ba impossible to do so inside Sulgerie, be decided to

escape to Gresce and join such a chruch goup there, if such existed.

If none existed, he desired to form such a nilitant i:legal crurch

group to fighi cormunism inside Bulgaria.

15-16

RI document 33-2-0-56 is a dispatch ica Chief of Station, C

dated 3 August 1951, which

solice.

Ale 9, thieh encloses a roport questioned theres

Bulgerian refugees who were brought fron Salonika on 19 July 1951.

They are: Spas Iodorov fuKIll, Straiko DAMIANOV, and Stefan Febrow

PELTIKOV. They will be housed at lavrion

---

## Page 3

-2-

20 Movember 1957

15-16

document 12-7-5-147 is a dispater Iron Chiei of Stavior,

dated 6 August 1951, enclosing an essay by Subject on the

Trudovak Service in Bulgarid.

The Trudovak Service is a military

oxganization formed to procure manpower for construction contare.

The covering dispatch states that it was reported that Subject

was one of three Bulgarians who were brought down froz Athens fron

Salonika on 19 July on the request of •

FI document #201-129455 (DF2-73956) is an FBI report dated

21 Hoverber 1956 at Cricago entitled "Vadinir Tyexoff MeTChNiS.I;

Internal Security-3U." The report was forvarded to CIa on 3

December 1956.

NETCHKARSKI is identified as a Pulgarian political exile wao

became disgruntled in the U.S, and sought to return to Turkey.

1 It. RAKIN (larginal note spells nace Spas RATKIll) was sent to

Chicago by the World Council of Churches in New Yor's to assist

METCHKARSKI.

Ri document 12-7-6-27 (SODB-1225L dated 12 September 1951,

is an intelligence report concerning ine Zulgarian Orthodox

Church prepared fron information furnished by Subject who considers

himself an ordained priest in the Bulgarian Church. In preparing the

infornation Subject used the non de plune Frezviter KOSHA.

The

field station comments that Subject was brought to Athens froz

Salonika on 19 July 1951 to work for

R1 document 201-91430 (DFB51628) is an FBI report dated 10

April 1957 at New Jork entitled "Ilia Vangelof Georgief OURDOE;

ISternal Security-BU."

The report was sent to the CIA on 19

april 1957.

Reference to Subject in the roport sims from his position

as secretary of the Bulgarian Escapee Frogram of the Church Forld

Service, 215 Fourth Avenue, lew York City. His only connection viti

OURDOF was in an official capacity.

Special Agent

headmarters Field Office

---

