# 104-10186-10250

## Page 1

104-10186-10250

INFORMATION EPORT INFORMATON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thla material contains intermin alertine tho Martoon Dottare el the l'altra stare estas the meanini al tir

18, UBC SAR TRI DAN TOL INA IFAMINION DI IUTPINLION O MATA SE ANY DINANT 1O DI UNADONNI

SECRET

NO FORSIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Agustin YASELLS Gonzalez

"REPORT NO

CSCI-916/01207-64

DATE DiSTR

17 Septenber 1960

'NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

3/p0

DATE Of 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNFVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRATINES ARE DEFBUTTVE AMLAISAL OF CONTENI IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban. IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first chocking with this Agency.

Source identified Agustin YASELLS Gonzalez as a diplomatic

courtech 196551,2,5,2,5led on a. Flight froa Habana to Mexico

Headquarters Comments

1.

An unteste source advised & representative of this Agency

that Agustin YASSELS Gonzalez hnd arrired in Kingston,

Jamaica, on 28 May 1962.

YASSELS spent the night at the

home of

Alfonso HERRERA Perdomo, the Cuban Consul in Kingston,

and traveled to Torondo, Canada,

on 29 May 1962. YASSELS

held Cuban Diplomatic passport D/62/200, issuce in Habana,

Cuba, on G April 1962. Mis birth date was listed as

16 May 1939.

2. In a report dated 20 July 1962, an untested source identified

Agustin YASSELES Gonzelez as &

Cuban courier who accompanied

Angel TATO Ramirez, & Cuban inspector, to Kingston, Jamaica,

In April 1902.

3.

This Agency's representative in Kingston, Jamaica, réported

on 11 September 1962,

that Agustin YASSELLS Gonzalez, & Cuban

courder, received a United States visa on 10 September 1962,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

T DIA

- TARAY

I NAVY

REP CINCLANT CINCSO #

¡Note: field dismbution indicored by "='.)

TAIR

INSA

NECK

1 oce

I FBL 2

_INS

3

SINFORMATION REPORT

WH/SA/EOB, IL NEL5/R

W/SA/MOB: I HE/LADR

mU/SAAR

2

CI/RIA

HILLSA/CI

MILAKE

Tal

RIDLAK

TOPALA

13.08

In thatSit

FORMATION REPORT

1a8--167811-126

NO PROJECT(A MUG 1)

• CSCI-316/01207-64

¡COOMOINATING

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

LIGERSTE S

sik

+18.181850069

---

## Page 2

5.

6 .

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CSCI-316/01207-64

• 20

which is valid for three months. He will travel to New York on

11 September 1962 via BOAC

and will presumably enter the United

states repeatedly as a courter for the Cuban United Nations delega

ition..

In report dated 14 August 1963,

"former Cuban Intelligence staff

of ricer reported the following information on (Inu) vassEl

(matronymic unknown):

Source Mirst met YASSEL in April 1959 when böth attended

a Litary Attache dourse in Cludad' Mar, Santiago de Cuba:

YASSEL, at that time, was a Second Licutenant in the Cuban

Rebel Army.

During the period source was In Montevideo

(between mid-March and mid-lay 1963), he not YASSEL again

when YASSEL visited the Cuban Embassy on two occasions as a

diplomatic courter.

YASSEL's courter run took him from

Habana to Mexico-Chile-Uruguay-Brazil and back to Habana.

Source, sometime, in 1962, saw YASSEL in MINREX in Habana.

Source also said that he 1u certain that YASSEL 1s a Cuban

Intelligence

Service functionary and a Communist. He

described. YASSEl. as having been born about 1935, being five

feet seven inches- tall; 160 pounds,

with black hair, dark

eyes, & dark complexion, and having a medium build.

The following travel by Agustin YASELLS Gonzalez was taken from

official travel manifests:

26 June 1963

- Left Mexico City for Habana

9 July 1963

- Arrived La Pas from Santlago

11 July 1963

Left La Paz for Ariea (by train)

15. July 1963

Loft Montevideo for Rio de Janciro

24 August 1963

- Arrived Rome from Madrid

24 August 1963

• Left Rone for Tel Aviv

19 September 1963 - Arrived Rome from Prague

20 September 1963 - Arrived Madrid

22 September 1963 - Left Madrid for Lisbon

28 September

1963 - Arrived Israel

14 November 1963

- Arrived Montevideo from Rio de Janeiro

15 November 1963

— Left Montovideo for Santiago

19 November 1963

- Arrived La Paz from Arica

5 February 1964

- Arrived Kingston from Mexico

1 March 1964

- Arrived Atheng from Rome

3 March 1964.

~ Arrived Habana

A report dated 27 July 1964 stated that Augustine YASSEL, formerly

in Indonesia, was in Tokyo enroute to Habana via Mexico City.

ECRE

O FOREIGN DISSE

---

