# 104-10413-10053

## Page 1

104-10413-10053

Mates

" T

HEMORANDOM FOR THE RECORD

SUBURCTS TEBRIEFING OF DAVID M. WILSTED (ps)

- PROTECT LINOR

6 June 1960

10.03 0n 1 Juno 1960 Mr.

and Mr. John Kennedy of WHD,

Mr ®

Jof @I/OPS,

of FI/OPS and Mr.

Dat FI/D not with ravid M. WILSTED (ps) . 05

17.0

*! 20 WILSTED emphasized that the whole tolephone system In Mexico

'alty 1a undergoing a reformation, The company Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.,

has subcontracted this work of cleaning up and reorganizing the phone

systen to the independent firm, Intel.

They are cleaning up unused and

old 11nes, putting In new and spare Ilnos, redefining exchange areas,

laying underground cables, eto.

Eventually we should be better off be-

cause there should be more surplus iines. The renovation work has

hampered much of the LIFTAI work, principally because many of the lines

now are underground and we carnot get access. to them before they enter

tho contral..

This is particularly trun with respect to the Czech Em

basay, to whose telephone lines we cannot obtain access from the vantage

point we now occupy.

30

WILSTRD said that we try to keep track of the activities of

"Intol" but since they seem to attaok "Colonias" at mindom, we have no

prior warning of their presence in a certain area.

Lo In the recent past, lexico has been using houses for listing

posts for security reasons.

ile have more control over the access of

phone company Inspectors or repairman to houses. However, under new

regulations, all now apartment bulldings must havo telephone lines in-

atalled In the building by the phone company during the construction

This moans that the lines and their destination are concealed.

HILSTED proposed that this will nean we can again use apartments since

we can siphon off & line destined for use by another tenant in such a

way that the phone company cannot trace 1te destination without tearing

the building apart and ie can then install a separate line to the build-

Ing and hook up the subseriber to this line which, if checked, will

belong to a legitimate subscribor.

5.. One system which has been used effectively is to take one-half

of two separate pairs which have one faulty line each. These two lulf

pairs then for one good pair which we can use.

WILSTEN explained that It cost about 3000 posos to got a

rogular telephone. This entails the purchase of a telephone company

bond, which later can be sold.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

4/1V

7.

Personnel Involved In the tapping of the lines are:

- Who has access to the /contra1s) He contacte the rol-

loring men:

Two brothers

does exchange connections.

Tha tako from each basehouse is collected sarly in the morning

before office hours by RAFANELLI. He only enters one basehouse which 18

pocupded by an eldarly couple. All other contaots are in automobiles

made at different spots each day of the weok. RAFANELLI then takes the

materia to & meeting between him, WILSTED and SECHEN where RAFANELLI

turns the material over to SECHEN

and they all discuss the probions and

Plans for the day.

Aocording to ILlED there is no live monitoring done by any

pt the basehouse keepars.

10€

There fallows a list of the basehousas and the linos cornred.

nach ascer

b)

16

c)

formerly covered American connies, now

no lines. Being hold for future use.

_ Cuban residence

Russian Cormorcial

F. T. (Nioaraguan)

• 2 Polish

Seboror

Tropete

Bekler

d)

- Cuban military office

Cuban Ambassador's office

Campos (travel agency)

I spare

e)

WAR

known)

Ejercito Nacional 540 (name of person un-

24

{)

24

•B)

- facilities for three linos. Formorly

processed the Czech lines. Now nothing

but being hold open.

- 3 Soviot Embassy (tapped in the Central)

1 Sovlet propaganda offica (tap in bos

SECRET

DO!

JUNE

---

