# 104-10435-10009

## Page 1

1104-10435-10009

3

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

CI staff

AHn!

George Bradley

CT-5

DATE

INITIALS

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Resanitized copy.of

Memo #8 ot the

Gaurison packase, Per

our telecon.

FORMONO. 237

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

PROPIC

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Use previous editions

#GlO: 19740-335-851

DATE

22/2/76

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

12 JAN 1023

MEMORANDUM NO. 8

SUBJECT:

Garrison and the Kennady Assassination

I. SUMMARY

1. This memorandu:n la lengthy secause it reporta on tbirty

persons lavolvad in Garrison's investigation. / Eight of these have or

had DDP ties. (O1 these edght, three bave or had some contact with

the Domestic Contact Service as well.) Eighi more were Dos contacts.

Fourtoen had no alfillation with the Agency but clalmed to have or were

sald by othero to have bad such a relationship. Seven of total of tultty

have not appeared previously in this sezles.

3. The DD? contacts are the following:

a. Erascisco Antonio BARTES Clarens.

Cuban refugee

leader la New Orisans who haz cone to Garrison's attention.

DDP allot 20 July 1965 10 11 February 1966.

DCS contact:

may 196i so present.

TEO.

RuFuS BROWN

2. George BROWN. Garrison le reportodly stying io

BROWN-NGOT, ING)

Implicate him in the "assassination plot". Has seen both a

CLOSE FRIEND+

FINANCIHL BACKIX

DDP and a DCS contact. Dotails are being ascertained and will

be reported.

..B.N.

c. Leslie Nosman BRADLEY. GRIleoN has charged

an Edgar Eugene BRADLEY with boing one of the conspirators

but may have confused bira with Leslie Norman BRADLEY. /The

Tlatter was einployed as a co-pilot by a CIA-controlled air line

frozs 26 May 1965 until 12 Septeraber 1967. He had One DCS

meetlog on 2o June 1963.

d. Alberto Fedorico FERNANDEZ Hechavarria.

Identiiied to Garrison ass Cuban leader asociated with Lawrence

Joseph LABORDE. |DDP contact fron Dacorber 1960 to present.

c. Lawrence Joseph LABORDE. Hie son has reported

on him abd his associates to Garrison's stall. (DDP contact

frOm February at March 196l to 20 April 1762

208

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1. Alfred I. MORAN. Has Sees questioned by

Garrison's stail. / DDP contact from 27 December 1982)

to present. DCS contact fram 21 Decembar 1962 to 5

present. Since 19 Noverber 1964 contacts for the DDP.

have been handled by the DES. S

§. Victor Manuel PANEQUE y BATISTA. Has

been identified to Garrison as having boen in charge of a

CIA traintag cainp ia Loulslana. | DDP from 13 November

1864 to 31 October 19657

L. Emilio SANTANA Galindo. Was Interrogated

by Garrison and staff fos ive days in February 1967. IDDP

contact from Octobes T9E2 to October 1953.:

3. The DCS contacts are the following:

a. Carlos Jose BRINGUIER. Has been interrogated

and polyaraphed by Garrison. DCS contact February and. (

(April 196%.

b. William Hayne DALZELL. Has been questloned

,by Garrison and staff. Alleged he was alilliated with CLA.

DCI contacts in November 1960 and ia January and February 1961.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING JI. Was identified to

Garrison's stall as a pars-milltary instructor of Cubans and

later vialted Garrison's office. DCS contact from October 1950

to March 1961.

d. Jaci N. ROGERS. A Baton Rouge attorney in touch

with Garrison's stall. DCS contact from Septender 1959 to

the prement!

•. Clay SHAW. Arrestod by Garrison on a charge of

conspiring to asssesinate President Kennedy. DCS tice from

December 1946 to May 1956.

•1. Cocil Maxwell SHILSTONE. Member of Truth and

Consequences, Inc., wilch donates money to Garrison's office

Lifelong triend of two members of the DCS oilice In New Orle'

but official contact ended in 1956.

....

---

## Page 4

13-00000

/ UNBAT

enri

§ SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Corporation.

Said by Garrison and othere to havo bean the original owner

of explosives removed from a bunker at CLA's Inatigation

10r ase ai the Bay of Pig*. Current DOS contacts with

varlous SCHILUMBERGER ofúcos.

A. Juln GarIeN UNDERILLL JI. Dond.

from late 1943 to the sid 1950's.

4. The persons falsely claiming Agcacy aliliation. or

abort whor such clairas have been made by otier?. ara tie following"

a. Valentine ASHWORTH. Interviewed by Garrison's

staff. Now la jail, ASHWORTH has clained a link with CLA

and forInes assoclation with Oswala.

1. Guy BANISTER. Dead. Ramparts bas alloged

that ho was associated with CIA and with linutenen involved

in the assassination.

Maurice Brooko GATLIN Sr. Dead.

Raraparts

has alleged that ho was aurociated with BANISIER and ClA.

d. David W. FERNIE. Dead. Garciaon has charged

that FERRIE was a member of the conspiracy for the abdassination

of President Kennedy and that he worked for CLA.

LorED Fugene MALL. Subpoensed by Carrison as

a material witness. Garriven chargas that le wo:ked lor CLA.

1. Lawrence Jobs HOWARDIi. As above.

# Jules Ricco KIMBLE. Offered information to

Carrion's stall. Chained sinliation with ClA.

FIa LOGAN. Sald by Gordo NOVEL suad

Ramparts to hare been a CIA advisor to the Eriondo ol

Democratic Cuba in New Orleans. No pertinent Identifiable

Iniormation esdata.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

STATET

Richard Case NAGELl. Claims falacly to have

warnod the FBI beloro the assassination. Claims lalselý

to bo Agenty-nitillated. Derving a ten. yoar terr la El Paso.

Mentally and emotiorally unstable.

j. Donald P. NORTON. Flown to New Orleang at.

Garrison's expense and debrieled in a taped intervlew.

Claimed extensive Mes with CIA, Shaw, Ferrle, and Oswald.

Discharged frora the U.S. Al. Force lu% psychlatric reasons.

k. Gordon DuRse NOVEL. Garrioon sought to extradite

him from Ohio as a witness. Both NOVEL and Garrieon bave

faloely agserted that NOVEL worked for CLA.

1. Lee Harvey OSWALD, Garrison allogos thst he

was CLA.

1. Jack RUBY. As above.

1. Edward Stewart SUGGS. Claima to be an investigator

for Garsison.. Catas former ClA ties.

I. DETAILS

1.

This nemorandon provides lalarmation about two typea

of persons who are prosently or potentially lavolvad in District Attorney

Jaines C. Garrison's Investigation ol the assaspination of President

Kennedy and who are os were associatod with CIA. Information la aleo

Included about a third category . those who have never been aesociated

with CIA but about whom a ClA tie has been asparted, by therselves of

others.

2./ Groip 1 la the irat category consists ol present or former

DDP contacts. Group 2 consists of present or falmer Dos contacta.

Crono 3, as mas noted above, conslate el impostors and of others who

have had no associatios with the Agency bul who have baen alleged by

third partles to be ClA-affiliated.

3. aroup 1 (total or 8))

a. Francisco Antordo SARTES Clarea+ (201-289385).

600527

---

## Page 6

13-00000

1N257

(1)) Prlos references: Memorandus, subject:

Garrison Ivestigation of Kennedy Asaaatisalion:

Francisco Antonio BARTES Clarers (201-289885)4

20 November 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garsion'» Inrestigation!

None known to date. His former position as head of

the Cuban Revaludonary Counchl (CRC) in New Orleans

and his earlier te to Lawrence LABORDE and othere

In respect to guerrilla tralning lor anti-Castro Cubana

has already, bowever, been drama to Garrison's altantian.

(3) |DDP and DES relationships:

(a), DDP.

Altbough & POA for use 1

IMATE was reguested on 29 December 1960 and

granted 30 January 1961, the request was cancelled

on 30 August 1951, and BARTES was not used

durlag this interval. (Par JIAWAVE 0493,

4 December 1958.J Da 27 May 1965 SOD/AB/OPS/3

requested a POA to permit the use of BABIES 38 a

pilot in the Congo. The POA was granted os

20 July 1965, and an OA on 9 Suptember 1965.

Tenting of Sabjoct's akill as a pilot revaaled, however

that he was not qualilled for the intended assignment.

He was soturned to the U.S. es 1l February 1966

without having baen used operatonally.

(b) DCS.)

The first contact of DCS New

Orleans with BARTES occurred on 1 May 1961.

Between tuat date and 9 January 1967 a total of

13 meetinga took place. BARTES la the source ol

Bix DCS reports. Contact has not been terminated.

b. Gorge BROWN.

(1) Pitor references: None.

(2) Involvement la Garrison Investigation: A

DCS Houston topart of 21 December 1967 states that

Gearge BROWN recalved a disturbiny telepbone call on

22. December 1967 from Hugh AYNESWORTH of Nowsweek,

who said thas BIll "Gerrage" (Comment:

Presamably

Idesticel with Willlar F. GURVICH) had Indicated that

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Garrison may try to Implicate BROWN in the

"asdasainat10n plot". "The allegation lo that in some

unspecilled manser Brown was lavolved with the ClA

In its objective of 'covering ap' the 'consplracy' los

President Johnson. Aynesworth sald Gervage bau

documents, Inclading at leant one la Garrison'a ewa

handwriling, which presamably have boen extractod

frOm

Casrison's illes.

(3) DDP relationsbip: The above report saya

that BROWN has cooperated closely with ClA la funding

operations. Checks are under way.

c. Leslio Normas BRADLEY (201-727878).

(l) Prlor references: Memorandas No. l.

26 April 1967, Enclosure 5i Memorandura No. 2,

8 May 1967, Enclosure 4.

(2) lavolvernent la Garrison's investigation:

None knowa to date. During the week 21-23 December

1907 several U,S. newapapers renorted that on 20

December Garrison's oillce had accused one Edgar

Eugene BRADLEY of Nortà Hollywood, California, of

conipirlag to assassinate President Kennedy. On 27

December he was arraigned on a fugilive complaint and

released on his oun recognisance. Extradition la currently

moot. There ls Do ClA record of Edgar Eugens BRADLEY.

On or about 20 Deceinber 1967, however, the Wanhlagton

buranu of the Los Angeles Times made an inquiry of the

A/DCI regarding Leslle Norman BRADLEY. Tie Newsweck

Issue of 8 January 1968 speculated that Garrison might

havo confused Edgar Eugene with either of two otor mion,

one of whom in "... a semetime New Orlezas pilot

saed Bradley who was once jalled in Cuba for anti-Castro

activitien." Thia description fits Leslle Norman BRADLEY.

(3) DDP and DCS relatlonships:

(a) LAt ble roquest, Leslio Norman BRADLEY

was mot by the DCS offico la Missespolia for one

and a hall bours on 26 June 1963. There vas no

other DCS contact.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

(6) /BRADLEY and tus companions

were arrested by Cubas Cut on 23 May 1960

os a chasge of counterrevolutionary activity.

BRADLET collaborsted with the Cuban

authorides while I-aprioned on the Isla of Pines.

He was sepatriated, with other Americaza,

105 22 April 1963.

(c) | DIS-HB sequested a Provisional

Covert Security Approval on 26 May 1966 La

order to use LeIlle Norman BRADLEY Laide

the continental U.S. as a co-pilot erplojed by

Soutbers Als Iranspori no, dilami. On 31

OcRoDer 1966 DDS-HB requested cancellation,

and employsent was considered terrainated.

It was later entablisbed, however, that Subject

remained employed antil Iz September 1967,

when be was dropped for unsatialactory performance.

Furtber laguiry is undet way.

d. Alberto Federico FERNANDEZ Hechavarsla (201-251353).!

(1) Prior references: Memorandum No. 5,

7 Asgust 1967, Enclosure 3; Memorandura No. 6.

7 September 1967, pago 5.

(2) Involvamont in Garrison's Investigation:

FERNANDEZ was Idontilled to one di Garrison'a stall

as the head of & Cuban organization wbich aployed

Lawrence Jonaph LABORDE (ase below) and otbers.

LABORDE'" son Michael also said that his father worked

• LOT CIA.

(3) / DDP relationship; FERNANDEZ has been a

contact of the Minral Elation from Decerabor 1950 to the

present, although payment ceased on l Deceraber 1965.

e. Lawrence JOSepà LABORDE (201 -294683),

(1) Prior referencos: Memorandam No. 3,

1 June 1967, p. 7 anel Enclosure 2; Memorandum No. 4,

20 June 1967, pp. 1 and 3; Memorandum No. 5.

7 Augeat 1967, p. 8; Memorandam No. 6. Y September

19673 pp. & and 5.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

-,

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation:

On 11 May 196% LABORDE telephoned the DCS office

la New Orlenna, sald that he was an ex ClA employee,

added that he feared Carrison would subpoena biza,

and roguested assistance or advice. Michael W.

LABORDE, the son of Lawrence, has told members of

Garolson's stall that his fathor was associatod with

Alberto FERNANDEZ (sed precediag sub-paragraph),

with Gerald Patrick HIMMING, and one "Roy" L percaps

LExOy COLLINS] in training Cubans as guerrilla

Agaters. Michael LABORDE has also traplicated CLA

in tila training. On 27 Septeraber 1967 Lawrence I.

LABORDE again called the Des office la New Orleans.

In accordance with Headguarters' Instructions be was

told that there was hothing to clacuss.

(3) DDP relationship: LABORDE was a DDP

contact from February or March 1961 to 20 April 1962.

He served as acting captaln ol a vessel orned by

FERNANDEZ and usod by the Mlaml Station lo Cuban

operationa.

1. AlTEd I. MORAN (201-776772)e

(1) Pilor references: None.

(2) Lavolvement la Garsison's investigation A

memorandan from DCS New Orleans, 15 November 1967,

reported that Hunter C. Leake of that office and Allied

J. MORAN are vErY good Irlend», that Leake attended a

party at MORAN's horse on 14 November 1967, and that al

that fine MORAN told Leake that he (MORAN) had been .

Is touch with a member of Garrison's staff, Assistzat D. A.

James ALCOCK, Who questioned MORAN abuul 21

occasion when Cler BERTRAND and MORAN were in the

VIP room of Eastern Alrlinen at the New Orleans

International Alpost. MORAN told Leake that in hia

opinion Garrison has an "Ironclad" case against Clay SHAW.

A DCS New Orleans report of 13 December 1967 adds that

MORAN told Leave on 11 Decembes 1967 that ALCOCK

and shother reprosentative of Garrison's offlee bad showa

him, sometire in 1967, what was alleged to be a ghotocopy

of the dally log from the VIP room at the airport MORAN

---

## Page 10

13-00000

recognlzed bis own signature and that of Arthur Q.

DAVIS (a prominent New Orleans archltact). He said

that the name Clem BERTRAND was pointed out to him

on the list and that Clay SHAWis DAme was not on the

11st. ALCOCK and his colleague said that a handwriting

expert had confirmed that the signature "Clem BERTRAND"

had bees written by SHAW. It le noted that the DCS

report of 15 November 1967 quotes MORAN as saylag that

SHAW wae in the VIP room on the occasion about wbich

ALCOCK questioned MORAN, whereas the 13 December

1957 report quotes MORAN an saying that he did not see

SHAW in tha room at that time.

(3)

DDP and DCS relatlonships:

(aLbDD. A check of MORAN's file showed

that he was cleared cn 15 Decembar 1962 lor use

by Miaral Station. He was approached on 27

on behalf of the Station and through the good offices

of DES New Orleans. Agreeing to boly the Station

is cover matters, he became president of

MORAN "also permits use of his own

1) (Corament Miarsi Station Cable 0425,

29 November 1967, does sot Identlly MORAN' on

company, but DCS New Orleans has reported that

he was the first prealdent of Kalvar Corporation,

which manufactazes microliira.) MORAN has acted

as à spottor for the Miami Station and bas

Incommended neveral othes businessmen who are

being used by tha Station. "Ho has also made

avallable several oil companies in which he erna

Interests for

Pol certais

operational vessela of the Station.

He do or has

been used by Headquarters lox several activittes

drected by the Office di Logiatica.

Of Mlaml Station

personnel MORAN has mot MI. Ray E. Millard and

Mr. Charles C. C. Tresp (jormotly DDS/Oifice

of Logistics) as well as Mra. Dollar. In addidos to

• 20 320w

Ine, and the Miami Station oparational vessel Barb.

He also knows that Miami altorney Mr.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TRAT

SEE TET

participates in Station actvitles. The latest

direct Miami Station contact of record da dated

19 November 1964; alnce that date, it appears.

DDP interests have been brokered by DOS New

Orleans. Miami Station records reflect that

MORAN In a friend of MessIa. Lawrence K. White,

Alan Hasilold, and James A. Carsinon, the former

Director of Logistles, now retired.

(0) DOS. MORAN was first in official

contact with the DCS New Orleans office on

21 Deceraber 1962. Thers have been fifteea

official contacts since then. Ho la not the sourco

of any DCS reports, bat he has been mentionad la

one operational report frora the New Orleans

office. As of 29 November 1967 the latest offielal

contact had oecurred on 20 November 1967, when

MORAN signed some corporate papers for Ace

Marine Survey Iac.

@. Vietor Manuel PANIQUE y BATISTA (201-286332).

(1) Prius reference:/ Memorandum No. 6.

7 September 1967, pp. 5-5.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation: In

# taped Interview of 21 January 1967 Carlos QUIROGA told

Garrison that PANIQUE was in charge of a Ch tralning

cainp conducted for Cubana from Miami 11 Lacombo, La.,

In August 1963.

(3)) DDP relationships A POA lOI PANEQUE'S USe

was granted the Miaml Station on 13 November 196%.

The Miami requent had stated that he was to be used "as an

inliltree and radio oporator", A report of 10 Asgust 1964

stated that he had bees lafiltrated into Cuba In Jane 1964

on bebalf of the Christian Democrate Movement. Whether

he was used operationally la not stated in PANEQUE' 201.

He was terminated effective 31 October 1965 for lack of

an Immediate operatlonal use.

L. Eralllo SANTANA Gallado (201-335356).

(1) Pitor relerencea: Memorandara No. 2,

8 May 1967, Enclosure 23; Memorandun No. 3, 1 June

1967, Restaure NoT graders No. 1, 20 Xua 1967,

---

## Page 12

13-00000

RVO

pp.l and 3; Memorandura No. 6, 7 September 1967,

p. b.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's Inventigation:

SANTANA was questioned by Carriaon and staff from.

12 to 17 February 1967.

(3) DDP relationahip: SANTANA was recruited

by the Miaral Station la October 1962. Alter participating

In lay 1953 in a single Infliration • exiltration operalios,

he was terrainated in October 1963.

4. Group II (2042) o1 8)

#. Carlos Jose BRINGUIER (201-239243).

(1) Polos references: Hersorandur No. 1, 26

April 1967, Enclosase No. 6, Memorandum No. 3,

1 Jane 1967, p. 5; Memorandure No. 4, Z0 June 1967,

pp. l'and 3.

(3) Involvement ta Garrison's investigation:

BRINGUIER has been questloned and polygraphed by

Garrison. Among the questions asked of BRINGUIER

while he was being polygraphed was whether he had been

contacted by CIA. He sald that he had not.

(3) IDCS relationship: DES Now Orleans interviered

BRINGUIER four times, at his aquest, on 1 and 2 February

An of 13 October 1967

ho Willlars Wayne DALZELL.

(1) PIlor references: Memoranduma No. 4,

20 June 1967, DD. 2, 5, and 53 Memorandom No. 6,

7 Septeraber 1967, p. 6.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's inveatigation:

Gordon NOVEL has stated that Garrison in Interested

in DALLELL, Remazarts of January 1958, p. 59, states,

"Another L'of the incorporators ol the Friends al

---

## Page 13

13-00000

AVAT

(..")

Democrate Cuba / was Willian Wayne Dalzell.

who knew [David W.7 Ferrie and /sergio7

•Arcachs / Smith/ and was stil another la tha

[W. Guy/ Baniater coterte of Bleutha.

To = States

Ñem reportar be admitted be was CIA. " Willlar W.

Turner, the wilter of the cited Ramparts article and

of other atlacks by Rampasts on ClA and the F'Bi, stated

therein that be had worked closely with Garrison and

his atall for nine months. The San Franclaco Chronicie

of 27 December 1957 quoted Garrison as saying.

"Every word in Raraparts I accurately statad."

(3) DCS relatlonship: DALZELL had three

contacts with DCS New Orleane. They occurred oa

15 Hoverber 1960,, 20 Jamary 1961, and I February

1961. They concorned bis proposala for a Radlo Free Cuba.

c. Gerald Patrick HEMMING Jr. (301-3091251.

(1) Prior reierences: Memorandam No. 5.

7 August 1967; Memorandum, subject: Chart of Garrison

Case, 2 November 1967.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's Lavestigation:

Michaal W. LABORDE told members ol Carriaon'a atall

that blm father Lawrenco had workad for CIA with antio

Castro Cabana. He nared 'Jerry Patrick", mbo lo

HESING, and one "Roy", probably Leroy COLLINS,

an assoclated with Lawrence LABORDE. He added that

Jerry Pairiei, and Ray "duped Cubuns out of money" and

wore disminned by CIA. On 8 July 1967 HEMMING and

an associate, possibly COLLINS, went to Garrison'e

office. They sald that they were working for an unldentilled

magazine and masted to do a story on the Carrinou

Investigation. HEMNING has boen reported by the FBI

and in the press as a soldier of fortuse who ham alven

put niltary trainny to anti-Castro Cuban rougees.

A teletype of B September 1967 froin the DCS olfce in

Los Angeles states that HEMMING had claimed tbat &

45 matomalie confiscated by a sherill's office la Los Angales

had been issued to him by ClA.

12

---

## Page 14

13-00000

KYDMTT

PEASET

(3) DCS seletionchip. HEMMING Wat in

contnet with the DCS olfice is hos Angeles between

October 1960 and March 1961. Hla la the source of

14 DES raports os Cuba.

d Jack N. BOGERS.

(1) PIños selerence: Memorandum No. 4,

20 June 1967, PP. 1 and 3.

(2) Involverent in Garrison's investigation:

ROCERS han besn ia touch with Carrison'e atall about

tue assasstaation because of ROCERS' position a=

committes counsel for the Jolat Logislatire Coramittee

on Us-American Activitiez of the State of Louialaza.

Hie has said that he lu conildent "that Carrison can prove

a close ansoclation between Oswrald and Jack Ruby and a

consplracy isvolring Clay Shaw. "

DCS relatlonship: ROGERS bas Dean & BOuICe

0f DCS New Orlonnà since Septerabes 1959 and la lthe

sonrce or contact" for twelve reporis irom tbat offica.

e. Clay SHAW.

(1) Prlor references: Hemorandum No. 1,

26 April 1967, Enclosure 21: Memorandura No. 4, 20 June

1967, pp. Pr d, and 5.

(2) Involvemant in Garrimon's inveatigations

SHAW was charged by Garrison in March 1967 of consplring

to aarassinate Fresident Kamedy. Hla cans has zet yet

come to trlal. Ramparts of Janaary 1968 lintE SHAW to CIA.

(3) DCS relaslonship: SHAW was a contaes of the

DCS ofíice is New Orleaan fron Deceriber 1949 to May 1955.

Dusiag that porlod/Mr. Hunter Leskelcontacted him officially

thirty tlros. These contacta produced a total of elght reports.

"1. Cectl Maxwell SHlLSTONE.

(1) Polor reference: Memorandum, subject:

Chait of GeIrison Case, 2 Noveraber 1967, p.15.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

(2) lavolvement in Garrison's lavestigation:

SHILSTONE Is a mambor of Truth and Connequences

Inco, s group af alfluent New Orleans businesamen

who have donated undiaclosed amounta of money to

Carrison's office for bis use la paying lavestigative costs.

(3) DCS relatlonahip: SHILSTONE has beer a

Hielung Irlend of Measrl. Lloyd A. Ray and Hunter

Leake of the DCS oilice In New Orleans. He la the source

of two very old 00-3 reporte. The alficial (but not the

personal) zelationahlo ceased in March 1855.

&. SCHLUMBERGER Hell Suxveying Cosporation.

(1) Prlos Inferences: Memorandun No. 2,

$ May 1967, Enclosure 24; Memorardun No. 4,

20 June 1967, pp. J and 1.

(2) Involvement la Carriaon's investigation:

Tho prous bos repeated statements by Gordon NOVEL.

Mading this fisr to ClA. NOVEL has claimed that

explosires walch he and othera removed from a bunser

at Houma, Lodisiana, at the inatigation of ClA, bore

the SCHLUMBIRGER stamp.

(3) DOS relationships Ia June 1955 was a contact

between Charlend. DOf, district manager of the

SCHLUMBERGER office in New Orleans, and the New

Orleana DCS offica. Moreover, DOS has current

contacts with the main SCHLUMBERCER office In

Houston and with thres or four mubaldlaries elsewhere.

DCS dealings with the firm have baes circumapect.

h. John Garrett UNDERHILL IT.

(1) Prior relerancos Memorandum, subject:

Ramparte: John Garret UNDERFILL JI., Samuel George

CUMMINGS, And INTERARMCO, 19 July 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's Lovestigation:

Ramparte of June 1967 clalned that UNDERHILL, D05

dead, was "on intinate terme with a number of bigh-

ranking CIA officiale - he was one of the Agency'»

nEAn

---

## Page 16

13-00000

/ MVRA5

'unopeople' who performa spectal ssalzaments."

Rampaits of January 1968 adis, "Immediately after

the assassinstion, a distraught Underblll cold triende

that a senlosutonemona CIA clique wbich had been

profiteering in narcoties and gua-rundiag was iraplicated

'Is the annsualnasion." The close Carrison-Turnas

assoclation and Garrinai's voueblag for the accuracy

al the Ramparts secount suggest that Garriaon say

make alcilar assertions when his case comes to trial.

(3)) DES reladonasp: UNDERILL was an

Iniruquent contact of the DOS New York offica Irow

late 1949 to the mid 1950'1. He was not eraaloyed by

Ebal office. The purpose of contact was so outain poaltive

forolga latelligence,

3. [Croa, Ill (total of 14)

a. Valentino ASHWORTH (201-337555).

(1) PIlor Felorencon: Ner

(2) Javolvesent la Garrison's tavestigation:

On 9 October 1962 ASHWORTH seat a lotter from

Loenville, Ladsiana, to the Cabar Ainbassador la

Mexico. He allernd Inlormation about the "Cuban Lalder

Compiand" and the "People's Rerolutiozary Movement"

in erebange for help in defecting to Cuba. He said that

ClA did not bave the same Iaformatios Arrested on

16 BAsy 1966 10r lovestigation of auto theit, ASHWORTH

told an as special agent that he had participated is

soveral raida on cuba, that so we a pilot and an empert

In explosives, and that ClA was aware of hie activitien

and on Apid in or on out or Are ted

natomobile, ASHWORTH was sent 10 the jall in Late

Charlos, Loullana, A fellow lamato, one ilchard

PHILLIPS, Wrote to FBI to say RAL ASHWORTH clalmed

to have barod an spartment in Oho with Lee Harvey

"Oswald, that Dowald and he belongod to a grosp of

New Orleans Guians who tilled President Reanedy and

"were supposed to 111l Castro at the same timo", that

---

## Page 17

13-00000

/ IND T

"Oswald was a patsay (sic) and didn't fire a shot;

Rhat "Konsedy's assins (sic) were, as was Oswald,

trained by tho CIA", ete. On 13 October 1967 a deputy

sherlf adreed the FBI that an unidentified assistant

¿intrict attornoy on Garrison's staff had come to laro

Charles one month earlier and had interviewed

ASHWORTH for an hour. According to PHILLIPS,

Garrison's ropresentatives have queationed ASHWORTH

about four times and have anked him ll he was & neraber

of CIA. The U.S. Marine Corpu advised on 1 January

1968 that ASHWORTH enlisted on 24 December 1952,

was honorably discharged on 18 March 1953, reenlisted

the next day, and then served until 3 December 1954,

when given a bad conduct discharge followlag a general

court-martial at which hn was found guilty of unlawíul

absence znd lailure' to obey lawful orders.

(3) CIA relationahlp: None.

b. W. Guy BANISTER

(1) Pilos references: Memoranduas No. 1,

25 April 1967, Enclosure 3; Memorandum No. 2,

8 May 1967, Enclosure 3.

(2) Involvement in Garzisos'e investigation:

Ramparts of January 1968, p. 17, statea that a former

Minuteman named Jerry Milton BROOKS had said that

BANISTER was the "head of the And Communim League

of the Caribbean. " Ramparte asserts that this "league"

was "assertedly an Intermediary between the CLA and

Caribbean Insurgency movementa. *

(3) CIA relatonsbip: None. According lo our

rocordo, Maurice Brodis GATLIN SI. (see below) was

legal counsel sot, as Ramparta raya, to the "Artl

Communist League of the Caribbean" but to the "Antl-

Communion Coramittee of the Americad", FBI reporting

clearly indicates that GATLIN was the sole member of

•this national group. As FBI report of l4 February 1761 -

quoted BANISTER as saying that he had never been an

officer or member of the "group", GATLIN's clalzas to

the contrary notwithetandiaz.

V6):

---

## Page 18

13-00000

C. SAusICa BrOOKS GATLIN SI. (201 - 33454).

(1) PIlos referencess Neu-

{2) Involvement in Garrison's Investigation:

Rumpaste of Jamary 1968 quoten one Jerry Milton

BROOKS (sen preceding sub-paragrap)) as claiming

to have boes a "aort of protege" of GAILIN. BROOKS

claimed that about 1952 GATLIN, "In s scil-important

manner", sumarked that he had $100, 000 as ClA money

earmarked los a french right-wing cligue that was

Bolag to attempt to asassinate General De Gaulle.

GATLIN ded in Panars in 1961, at tho age of sixty-ona.

FAl reports on him cite sources who knew his well

as saying that he was insane and should hare been committed

Flo duped Eduardo A. Moralos, Consul General os the

Doriaican Republic In New Orleans, out of relatively

large suma la the late 1950'%. Morales scems to have

considered him an agent representing tho intereste of

Irajillo, although CATIIN was not so registered with

the Departnont of Justice, GATLIN used the allaser

Edward FAIRCHILD, James COCHRANE, RObert WATSON,

and Gharles EVERETT. A typical epiaodo occurred in

November -December 1957, whos GATLIN went to Eugene,

Gregos, because he had & theory that Jeses De Gallades

(commonly belloved to tave been kidnapped la New York

by Trajilo henchmen) wad biding out among Basgue

sheep-herders there. On 2 Decamber 1958 GATLIN

presented alsodell to an FBl special agent in Eagero and

Bald that "If he was found dead in Lugono it was marder,

not maicido".

13) •CIA relationahlo: Nono. An 0O report of

10 Docerbor 1953 states that on 13 October 1953 GAILIN

called on sa 00 allico, maid that riota mero acheduled to

occur in Guatemala, and added that he thought sons ClA

representatives there might be in danger.

"He nuggested

that be be furnlahed the names of agonts who were poning

no membore of the Communint organization so that he

could prevent their being ansa sinated in error."

He also suggasted that CLA glve lira $75, 000 to fuad tbe

assassination of 15 top Communist leaders la Latle America.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

d. David E. FERRIE.

(1) Polor rolerencen: Memorandar No. 5,

7 August 1967, p. 3; Memorandura No. 7, 13 September

1967, p. Za

(2) Involvoment in Garrison's investigation:

Ramparts of January 1968, pp. 50 and 52, suramarizes

and araplities Garrison's earlier charges that FERRIE.

was employed by CIA in anti-Castro activity, Ramparis

cites an unidentilled source as claiming that FERRIE

had confided that he "was working for the CIA rescuing

Cubans out af Castro prisons".

(3) CIA relationship: None.

e. LoJan (or Lawrence) Eugens HALL (201-258411)

(1) Prioz reforances: Memorandras No. 5.

7 August 1967, Enelonures 13, l4, and 23.

(2) Involvement in Garrison'a lavestigation:

Press and radio accounts of 29 December 1967 through

I January 1968 stated that Garrison, on 30 Decamber 1967,

subpoenaed three men as aterial witsesses. They are

Thomas Edward BECKHAM of Omaba, Nebraska, Loras

Eugene HALL of Kernville, Callfornia; and Lawrence Joha

HOWARD JI. of Los Angeles. The subpoenas alleged that

HALL and HOWARD caecked into the Dallas Y. M.C.A.

in October 1953 and remaned in Dallas until tbe assaseination.

HALL, is said to have brought a weapon to Dallas. The

subpoenas lurther alleged thet HALL and HOWARD were

associated in Dallas with Jack Raby and with others, locluding

Oswald, believed to have been involved La the assassination.

The Carsison charges added that in New Orleans HALI

and HOWARD were ansociated with FERRIE and that In

Florida they bad taken part la ClA- ponsored guerrilla

training for raida or Cuba. HALL donled over mecting

---

## Page 20

13-00000

Onwald, Ruby, Ferrlo, "or anyone else involved

la the assassisation of anyone ever mentioned by

Garsinon or anybody else".

(3) CLA reladorablp: None. tHALL served

In the U.S. Army, 1947-1952, West Germany, and

was given an honorable discharge for medical reasons

According to his lates, ho has suffered a mental

breakdows and la still subject lo severe deprenalon.

He ham been arrested sevoral times. He claims to ba

= soldior of fortune who once served Castro's causo,

but soine who know him think that ho 1e lying.

1. Lawrence John HOWARD JI.

(1) Prios references: None.

(2) Involvement la Garrivon's investigation:

See preceding sub-paragraps, According to the Houston

Chronicle of 31 December 1967 the subpoens allegea

that HOWARD was engaged in ClA-sponsored guerrilla

trainiag in Florida, Louislana, and Texas. Ramparts of

January 1968 repeats the old story that Mrs. Sylvia ODIO

was visited in Dallas in Late September 1963 by three male

strangers: Leopoldo, Angelo, and "Leon Oswald".

Ramparts adda that "just before the Warren Report went

to press, the FBI located three men possibly Identical with

¡ra. Odo's provocative visltorn." They were HALL,

HOWARD, and one Willlam SEYMOUR, who had an allot.

Ramparte alleges that HALL lirat admitted but later dented

that the three had called on lars. ODIO. HOWARD denied it.

(3) CIA relationship: None.

§. Jules Riceo XIMBLE.

(1) Prios reference:

Memorandum No. 6,

7 September 1967. p. 3.

(2) Involvement is Garrison's lavestigation:

Ramparts of January 1968 states that KIMBLE approached

members ol Garrison's stall and said that on the day

19-

---

## Page 21

13-00000

after David FERRIE died, he drove a top Ku Klux

Klan offleial, Jack HELM, to FERRIE's apartment.

"HELM came out with a satchel crammed with papere.

which he placed la a bari safe depost bor." KIMBLE

clalmed that in 1962 he flew to Montreal with FERRIE

on Milnutemen business.. "Shortly afterward, he phonce

his wlín from Atlanta, saying be bad mot a CLA contact.

"They'll never set me back to New Orleans, 'he vowed."

Ho was arrested, howaver, la Tampa, Were Garrison's

men questloned him. He "said that he had once worked

special assignmonts for the CIA, and in verification

named his Agency contacts and the bos number at tbe

Lafayette Street station they assigned bii. He averred

Be had recontacted the ClA alter Walter Sheridar bad

counseled bim to say nothing to the DA and go to Canada."

As FBI report of 12 Januasy 1956 stated that men la the

oífice of the aberlis of Avoyelles Parish, Loulsiana, had

said that KIMBLE is a pathological liar who has lad

treguent problems with the police and who la prone to

violence. Deputy Sheriff Cbarlas KIMBLE, balf srother

of Jules, advised that kis brother lad mado certain false

statementa to draw attention to himnelf, la the hope of

getting 03z of jail.

(3) CIA relationablp: Nona. |On August 1957

KIMBLE telephoned DCS New Orleans to day that Garrios

was trylag to connect hir with CLA, although he did not

know why, nod that Garrison had accused his of taidng

some papers from ferrie's apartruest.

A. FRu LOGAN.

(L) Prior references: None.

(2) Involrement in Garrison's lavestigation:

Ramparts of January 1968, p. 53, says,

"Tho Friende of

Dessocratic Cust was founded Jazuary 9, 1961

•Goverment advisor to the Friends, says an Inforsiant

who was closely involved with the group, vers & CLA man

named Lojan and the FBI's Regis Kennedy . ... "

On 10 May 1967 she New Orleane office of the FBI, reporting

---

## Page 22

13-00000

information, obtained from Gordon Duane NOVEL.

quoted his as saylag tha! Williana Wayns DALZELI

(nee above) had been ia souch with Rennedy and with

Ch employer inu LOGAN.

NOVEL attributed this

Information to DALELL: landlady.

(3) ClA relationship: Nono.

The Dos Nev

Orleans office reported on 20 Inse 1967 that there has

never been a LOGAN is the office and that the recordo

do sot rellect dealingn with anyone of that name.

Headguarters traces have not revealed a LOGAN lu

New Orlears.

1. Richard Case NACELL (201-746537)

(1) Pstor seferences: Nons.

(2) lavolvement la Garrison's lavestigallos:

Ramparta of January 1953 stated that NAGELL "was a

highly decorated Infantry captaln in the Korean war who,

he claims, subsequently becamo a CIA agent. * he

had sent a registered letter to J. Edgar Hoover warning

his of the impending assastication, which to says was

then scheduled for the latter part of September... and

the letter had gont sranswerod.* According to Ramparts.

NAGEIL, clalmed that two groups called "Bravo Club" and

"Delta Club" joined forces to Mill President Kennody.

"Meanwhile ClA got wind of the plans and sent several agenta

into the lield to ascertain whether they were 'for real'.

NAGEL I says that he was one of the agents dlapatched

Nagell says that be was lastructed to arrow" the patsy,

Rhat le kill itra, after the agnassination. "

(3) CLA relationablo: None. NAGELI Was one of

six crew members 1s: 3-25 which cranbed at full power

DI 28 Noverber 1959 near Friendahly Airport. Ho was.

tbe solo mrvlvor. The plase was not loand for 11 1/2

Hour!. He was unconscious and had sufferod severe bead

Injuries. On 16 November 1962 NAGELL wrote the FBI-

in New York to say that he wanted to expose the Departzen?

of Alcoballe Beverage Control of Callorris, On

15 Dacember 1962 he adviaed the FBI in Jacksonville,

21

---

## Page 23

13-00000

ANSAT

SECOND

Floside, that he had been recrulted by the Soviets la

Wasbington. D. C. and had contacted CIA in Virginla

on Soviet orders. In January 1963 he was diagnosed

at the VA bospital In Day Plnel, Florida, as having

"chrone brain vyndrome associated with brala trauma

with behavioral reaction characterised by passive,

aggrassive, and paranold lesturen." On 20 September 1963

he was arrested for firing two rounds lato the celling of

= bank la El Paso, Texal.. He then attempted suicide.

On 16 April 1964 NAGELI sant to the FEl a lotzer in

which he faisoly claimed that ho had sent them an earlier

lotter, dated September 1963 and signed "Jack Kramer",

to warn them mbout the assassinatlor.

1. Dozzld P. NORTON.

(1) Prior references: Memoraniam No. 6,

7 Septarabor 1967, pp. 1 and 2, Memorandura No, 7,

13 September 196%, p. 31 Memorandum, sabject: Donald

P. (0T I.) NORTON, 11 August 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation: In

Vancouves, Canada, In an Intervlow pislinhed on 8 August

1967, NORTON claimed to be an ex-ClA employee tho

delivered $150,000 to FERRIE for transfor to Cuba and

who picked up from SHAT $50, 000 to be delivered to

Oawald in Monterrey, Mexico, On 15 July 1967 Charles

WARD of Garrison's stall accompanied NORTON to

Now Orleans for a Ipodinterview, Ramparts of January 1968

clalraed that NORTON was impressed into ClA's service is

1957 under threat of exposare as a homosetual, According

to thie article, NORTON uns told by CIA to take a long;

quiet vacation becaume of something that was happezing

Is New Orleán.

(3) GIA reladonablo: Nose. NORTON served an unit

a private and PFC in the U.5. Als Force from 11 October

1949 to 24 Jasuary 1951, when he was dischargad for

psychiatric reasons.

¿ Gordon Duzze NOVEL.

(1)

Prior relerences: Merorandar No. 1,

26 April 1967, Esclosure 19; Memorandum No. 2.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

L..

8 May 1967, Enclonure 201 Meraurandura No. 4.

20 June 1967, pp. '6-10; Memorandum No. 6,

7 Saptember 1967, pp. 2-91 Memorandum No. I

13 Septembes 1967, p. 3. Also memorandum,

subject Gordon Duane Novel, 31 Blay 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's Investigation:

Both NOVEL. and one of his lawyere have clalmed that

he worked for CIA. Carrison has sought, untll falrly

recently, to extradite NOVEL from Colambus, Oblo,

but without muccess. Carrinon has claimed, and

NOVEL, has agreed, that NOVEL, at the instigaton of

CLA, took past with others lo stealing explosives fior

a bunker la Houna, Louisiana.

NOVEL ban written &

lotter walck Implies that ho was lavolved in CIA'a

operation Double- Chat.

Ramparts of January 1968

ropeata the principal lies about NOVEL's CIA des.

(3) ClA relatlonship: Nona:

1. Lice Harvey OSWALD.

(1) Prior references: Mamorandians No. 3,

1 June 1967, p. 1; Memorandum No. 7, 13 September

1967, p. 2.

(2) Involvament In Garstaon's lavestigatloni

Garrison has repeatedly charged that OSWALD was a

"patay" who did sot kill anyone and that OSWALD worked

105 CIA. Rasparts of Isnuary 1963 says that CLA

trained OSWALD at the Atsug, Naval Station in Japan,

whore he was taught covost operationa asd Russien,

Il also alleges that ClA arrangod OSWALD'a deloction

to the Sovlet Union.

(3) CIA relatlonshipi None.

I. Jach RUBY.

(1) PIlot reicredca»: Momorandum No. 3,

1 June 1967, p. 3; Memorandus No. 1, 19 September

1967, p. z.

23

---

## Page 25

13-00000

(2) Involvames! is Carrion's lavestigation:

Garsison has repeatedly stated that RUBY, lite OSWALD,

was employed by CIA. He clalms that ClA used RUBY

as a "bag mas" to smugale asros for Cuban asle groups.

(3) CIA relationbip: Nona.

th. Edward Stewart SUGGS, # JackS. MARTIN

(1) Prior references; Memorandam No. 4,

20. Juse 1967, pp. 2, 10, and 1l.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation:

MARTIN, formerly employed by Guy Banister, now

terms Himself an livestigator for Garrison. (A DOS

No» Orleans roport of 28 September 1957 stated that

MARTIN telephoned a friend of Mi. Iloyd Ray at 0200

hours, on of shortly before that date, sald that he was

ons of Garrioon's lavestigators," and triod to pump the

fIlend abour Mr. Bay. (Other Inports have stated that

MARTIN tando to made such calls in the amall hours

when druak.) Accordlag to Ramparts, of January 1958,

MARTIN alleges that Ferrie once commanded a Clull

Air Patrol sguadron of which Cawald was a ineraber.

Further, Ferrie allegedly laught Oswald to aboot a tille

with a telescopie aight.

Ferle becamd Involved with

Oswald in the assasisation plot.

(3) CIA rolationship: NoRe. MARTIN, howevor,

has clalmed that ba worked los ClA. (An IBI report stated

that Edward Stewart SUGGS "was fingerprinted in 1952 1a

Houstor, Textu. He was wanted at that time en a charge

of murder... • The Identilication Diviston recorde do

not ahow the diaposition of the charge." On 23 Dacember

1956 he was admitted to the paychlatric ward, Charity

Hospital, New Orlezza, Louisiana, as a mental patieat.

---

## Page 26

13-00000

STORET

Originatedby: DC/CI/R&A:D. E. PRATTidoL 31 January 1967

Dintribution:

Orig: DCA

1 • DDP

1 - Exceutive Comptroller

1 - General Coursel

1 - A/DCI

Office al Security

Directos, Domestle Contact Service

C/WH/COG

0/CL

•REA chrono

• De illes

---

