# 104-10013-10190

## Page 1

104-10013-10190

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FACTION

DATER

24: SEPT 1964

INFO:

ACTION COPY

FLE:

CLASSIFICATION

TO

i DEFERRED

PRiORITY

ALE

DTG

OPERATIONAL.

ROUTINE

XXXX

IMMEDIATE

TIALE

MNS

2328352 0

MEXI

Dup fro

2363

CITE I

DIR 519541

NUMBER

RYBAT GPFLOOR

876-897

21• COS WILL RECALL THAT SEVERAL PHOTOS OF UNIDENTIFIED PERSON WERE

HANDCARRIED BY LEGAL ATTACHE 'ÓFFICERITO DALLAS ON AROUD 23 NOVEMBERS

TO ASSISTEIN INVESTIGATION SOON AFTER OSWALDS ARREST AND PRIOR TO

HIS MURDER BY RUBY CROPPED PHOTO OF THIS MAN WAS

SHOWN BYTHE-FBI

TOROSWALD'S MOTHER, WHOEDISCLAIMED ANY KNOWLEDGE 2

2. AFTER OSWALD'S DEATH HIS MOTHER PUBLICLY CLAIMED THE FBI HAD

SHOWN HER A PHOTO OF RUBY PRIOR REPEAT: PRIOR TO THE KILLING OF HER SONE

WHEN'AGAIN SHOWN COPY CROPPED DIFFERENTLY:

SHE STAED IT NOT IDEN

WIIN THE ONE SHOWN: HER THE FIRST TIME

MODEBECAUSE ORCHS UBLICLE THE WARREN COMMISSION AULLESPUBLISH TAE

COPIES OF BOTH PHOTOS: AMONG, DOCUMENTS KEYED TO ITS SURVEY OF FBI, POST

CRIME HANDLING IN DALLAS. EXHIBITS WILL CARRY NO CAPTION AS TO ORIGIN

DATETAND PLACE TAKEN ECT NOR TEXT.:

A 40 REPORT: TO BE RELEASED 28 OCTOBER WILL CITE THE EPISODE. VOLUME

16 TO BE PUBLISHED EARLY NOVEMBER WILL REPRODUCE ONE PHOTO WHICH WEV

UNDERSTAND IS CLOSELY CROPPED AROUND BODY OF INDIVIDUAL®

SHORTLY

THEREAFTER IN EITHER VOLUME 18, 19 OR 20 THE SECOND PHOTO WILL APPEAR

WITH TRIANGULAR PORTIONS CROPPED ON SIDES SHOWING BACKGROUND WHICH

COULD BE CONTRUED AS A TREE OR PORTIONS THEREOF AND SOMETHING WHICH

1555:

OUSLER BEING CALLED TO WASH TO GIVE INFORMED OPINION

POSSIBLE DAMAGE TO LILYRIC OR LIMITED. WILL ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

to.

the can ti

LILyRIC/

CHRONO DUMMY

24/1419%

sover conser

CYS. TO

SECRET

TION

INCOMING

FILE NO

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DISTR:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION:

DATE:

24 SEPT: 1264

INFO:

LNHO

SECRET

CLABSIFICATION

FILE:

INITIALS

DTG

INCOMING NUMBER

DEFERRED

XXX

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

MNS

2321357

TO.

SMEXI

INFO

2363

CITE

DIR 51937

RYBATS GPFLOOR

COS ALL L RECALL THAT SEVERAL PHOTOS OF UNIDENTIFIED PERSON VERE

HANDCARRIED BY LEGAL ATTÄCHE OFFICER TO DALLAS ON ABOUT 23 NOVEMBERS

TO ASSIST IN INVESTIGATION. SOON AFTER OSWALD'S ARREST AND PRIOR TO

HIS! MURDER BY RUBY,

• CROPPED PHOTO OF THIS MAN WAS SHOWN BY THE FBI

TO OSWALDES MOTHER WHO DISCLAIMED ANY KNOWLEDGE®

0 201 AFTER OSWALD'S DEATH HIS MOTHER PUBLICLY CLAIMED THE FBI HAD

* SHOWN HER A PHOTO OF RUBY PRIOR REPEAT PRIOR TO THE KILLING OF HER-SONS

WHEN AGAIN SHOWN COPY, CROPPED DIFFERENTLY, SHE STAED IT NOT IDEN

TICAL WITHETHE ONE SHOWN HER THE FIRST TIME sages re corad

4, 30

BECAUSE OF THIS PUBLICLY THE WARREN COMMISSION WILL PUBLISH

COPIES OF BOTH PHOTOS AMONG DOCUMENTS: KEYED TO ITS SURVEY OF FBI POSTE

CRIME HANDLING IN DALLAS• EXHIBITS WILL CARRY NO CAPTION AS TO ORIGIN

DATE AND PLACE TAKEN ECT NOR TEXT•

SEA. REPORT TO BE RELEASED 28 OCTOBER WILL CITE THE EPISODE.

16 TO BE PUBLISHED EARLY NOVEMBER WILL REPRODUCE ONE PHOTO WHICH WE

UNDERSTAND IS CLOSELY CROPPED AROUND BODY OF INDIVIDUAL•

SHORTLY

- THEREAFTER IN EITHER VOLUME 18, 19 OR 20 THE SECOND PHOTO WILL APPEAR

WITH TRIANGULAR PORTIONS CROPPED ON SIDES SHOWING BACKGROUND WHICH

COULD BE CONTRUED AS A TREE OR PORTIONS THEREOF AND SOMETHING WHICH

APPEARS TO BE SOME KIND OF A BILL BOARD•

5•. OUSLER BEING CALLED TO WASH TO GIVE INFORMED OPINION OF

POSSIBLE DAMAGE TO LILYRIC OR LIMITED•

WILL ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

CHRONO DUMMY

24/14192

SCo

14-9593

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

LIMITED

---

