# 104-10064-10003

## Page 1

104-10064-10003

DISPATCH

UESFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, WOMUSE

INFO.

Chief, European Division

FROM

SUBJECT

Ray

RYBAT MHCHAOS

Venceremos Brigade (VB>*

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERERCESS

NO RUDERING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESI

CAN AIDGE MIDDOMO

MICROFILM!

01,24

Attached are two coples of a (SMABOVE report along

with a letter of explanation on the VB.

2. INERGO has been passed this material and as you

will notice in paragraph 2 of the SMABOVE letter they have

exchanged information on William Michael ROONEY.

01,84

modes. Rohithen

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use only

Do Not Reproduce :

RETURN TO CIA,

Background Use Only

Do Not Beproduce

Attachment::

as stated

Distribution:

2: . C/WOMUSE att h/w

- 2:- C/EUR w/o att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

GROUP I

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22

(OCOA)15362

CLASAFICATION

SECRET

DATE -

10 July 1970

HOS FILE MUMBER

7392

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2°

Your attention is directed to the Canarian

addresses listed in paragraph 2 of the attached blind

memorandum.

Although we have no criminal or subversive

record concerning those persons listed as residing at

hor person 1ad

these Canadian addresses, Dennis TAHNER, is believed to

be identical with Dennis David TANNDR a U.S. citizen

(born March 6; 1930,

Quebec) who as recent as

Edmonton,

immigrated to

Canada from the U.S. in 1963.

Um. ROONEY also mentioned

in paragraph 2 of the blind memorandum is believed identical

with william Michael POONEY,

Beverly,

Massachusetts)..

Ontario from the U.S.A. on September 3, 1968.

Neither TANER

nor ROONEY have come to our criminal or subversive notice

while residing in Canada, however you may wish to contact

Mir. Moss lee Innes for further information on these me..

The Canadian addresses,

listed in the attachment

where the residents are not identified, are presently being

checked with a view to identifying the occupants and you will

be further advised.

Your attention is further directed to paragraph

i to are one then a car clot an eat veron,

Patricia TODD GLOWA (born June 2ly, 1950 Middlebury, Vermont)

• 2

---

## Page 3

4-000

SEGRET

of 356 Terrace St. Denis, Montreal GIONA was listed

passenger number 188 on page 9 of the attachment dated

March k, 1970 with our correspondence of March 23, 1970

concerning members of the Venceramos Brigade which diss

embarked fron the Cuban vessel "Luis Arcos Bergnes" Feb-

ruary 12, 1970 at St. John, New Brunswick.

to contact Mr. Hoss Lee Innes for further

concerning GLOWA.

William HARTZOG was previously

mentioned

in our letter of Nay 8, 1970.

5.

with the exception of the following names, we

hold no criminal or subversive trace on those persons listed

as residing in Canada on Appendix "A" of the attachment

(the following persons whose names are preceded by an ast-

erisk were previously listed as returning members of the Brigade

aboard the Cuban vessel Luis Arcos Bergnes, in the attachment

The pages of the attachment

Appendix "A" Page 1

Jeunes Socialistes is identical with Young Socialists/

Ligue des Jeunes Socialistes (YS/[JS) (Trotskyist) listed

on page 13 of Appendix "A".

Ontario are assumed to se ident eat with Bernard Jasono

Willowdale,

WEXLER (born April 8, 1929, Chicago, Illinois) and Sheila

Pauline VAIIIANCOURI - Political Science Professor at

McGill University, Montreal, Quebec. A

Appendix "A" Page 3

, Helen ROSENTHAL is identical with Helen Stephanie

arcooter chael) ROSDNTHAL, nee BLACK

born April 4,

19427 New York City, New York. Helen ROSENTHAL has not

come to our attention adversely, however her husband,

Peter ROSENTHAL (born June 1, 1941, New York City),

• *3

Finer:

---

## Page 4

14:60060

entered Cana

on Senten us 6, 4167. ana

Professor of lathematics 'at: the University

of Toronto

He is ail outspoken critic of the United States involvement

In Vietnam and according to a reliable source

he was an

executive member of the Canadians

for the rational Liberatior

Front, (pro-Chinese Communist front) in 1968.

Appendix "A" Page 5

Charles KNOX is believed identical to Charles Lee KNOX

(born Septenber 10, 19hk Chicage,

Illinois)•

Annendix "A" Page 6.

David HANUSE - identical with David Edgar HANUSE (native

Alert Bay, British Columbia).

Native Ailiance for Red Power (Native Indian Social Action

group which has in the past been infiltrated by Trotskyists

and Pro-Chinese communist elements) HANUSE has also come

to our attention as a militant advocate of Red Power.

Mrs. Edma GIBB - identical with Edna (Mrs. Andrew) GIBB

(born approximately 1899, place of birth unknown)

According

to a reliable source in 1959 Edna GIBB was a member of the

British Columbia Peace Council (Comnunist front).

Bill CRUSE is identical with Wirliam CRUSE (Jr.) (born

Jul" 17, 1914, Tucson, Arizona), CRUSE, a lecturer in the

entered anatesome tetes states ta Jan vy ta, 1965,

and obtained landed immigrant status in Canada on April 24,:

1958.

Ruth GAMBERT - identical with Ruth (Krs. Herbert) GAMBERT,

born June 20, 1935, Waterville, Maine, U.S.A. According to

a source believed

reliable Ruth GAMBERT attended meetings

of the Learue for Socialist Action (Trotskyist) during 1966

and 1967 and participated in a protest march on the United

States Consulate in Halifax, Nova Scotia in April 1967.

Aspendix "A" Page 7

#DIlen KARISON is believed identical to Ellen Claire

KARISON (page 2).

*Huab KUROSE - believed identical to Hugo Tetsuo KUROSE

(page 1) •

---

## Page 5

14-00000

T CHIẾT

JER c/o hurriss, 160 Norr

Ste,

Ontario

apes

believed identica: tith frederick

Th ALEXA: DER

(page 30). We are unable to identify MorrIssoN at this time.

Annendix "1" Pare 8

ROCKIELL believed identical to Susan Elaine BUCKNEIL

(page 3).

Please note that BUCKNELL's given address in

Canada is that of David HANUSE identified above.

Annendix "A" Pare 10

Barry CRACO - believed identical with Bartholomew James

CHAGO, born March 18, 1948, Niskayuna, New York

cormerly of 640 Elm Sto

New Haven, Connecticut and

U.S.A-s.

presently attending EcGill University, Kontreal& According

Har in Vietnam (a campus organization formed at McGill

University in 1966 to draw public attention to the Vietnam

war).

Appendix "A" Page 13

Nancy SANDERS - believed identical to Nancy SANDERS

(page 9).

Appendix "A" Pare 14

Bobbie SUISSKELN - believed identical to Bobbie Ann

SWISSHELY (page 3).

Please note that SUISSKELN's Canadian

address is that of David HANUSE identified above.

Further to Bernard Joseph WEXTER and his wife

Sheila, previously mentioned in paragraph 5,

a reliable

source advised that during Karch 1970 Sheila VEXLER, having

described her family as "progressive", expressed an interest

in having herself and her husband join the United Jewish

People's Order (U.J.P.O.) (Communist) in Toronto and their

children beconing active in the U.J.P.O. youth activities.

7°

Pauline VAILLANCOURT mentioned in paragraph 5

above, according to a reliable source was a member of the

•Committee of the Rassemblement Pour L'Independance Nationale -

National Independence Rally (R.I.N.) for Ahuntsic County,

•• 5

4:

MET.

---

## Page 6

14.00000

Quabec in 1968. The R.I.N. was a Quebee political party

whose main objective was the separation of Quebec from

Canada through';democratic means. The R.I.N. has been

defunct since October 196S.

Charles Lee KNOX previously mentioned in para-

Eraph 5 above

according to a reliable source arrived in

Vancouver, B.C. from Des loines, Iowa, U.S.A. on December

26, 1969.

The source advised that KNOX was to represent

the Iowa Chapter of the Black Panther Party at the Nortb.

American Anti-Imperialist conference held in Vancouver on

December 26 to 31, 1969.

Attiched lu a golf explanatory clipping of in

article which appeared in the May 27 - June 3, 1970 issue

in Vancouver AB.C.

this clipping

has been previously identified in this letter:

With the exception of paragraphs 6, 7 and 8

the information supplied above may be disseminated for

official purposes providingl

However paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 are not to be

further disseminated: and no action is to be taken which might

jeopardize our source.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

June 19, 1970.

Re: Venceremos Brigade

docked at Pier l4 at the Port of St. John, N.B.

was learned that the following persons arrived at Pier

the same day from the United States by private car for the

purpose of meeting the returning members of the Brigade:

Louis & Dorothy BECKWITH

29 Ashland St., Medford, Mass.

I..I. CORBETT

11 Pleasant St., Westwood, Mass.

Thomas ROBERTS & Phyllis HILL

690 Mass. Ave.,

Boston, Mass.

Deborah LASKY

Wobbly Farm, R.F.D.

Kingston Road, Exeter, N.H.

Joan GERSTENZANG

2303 Young Ave., Bronx, N.Y.

Jonathan & Susanna COBB

174 Putnam Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

Karen WALD

746 58th St., Oakland, Calif.

Louis JONES

60 East 34th St., New York City

Lisa JORGENSON

328 Nest 10lst St., New York City

Mrs. Gilbert COHY

5245 South Natona Ave., New York City

Harold KAPLAN

1784 Carrol Ave., Merrick, New York

Susan ANDERSON

Montague, Mass.

Linda GLEICH

Alice

BERGER

266 West 1lth St., New York City

... 2

SECRET

---

