# 104-10175-10423

## Page 1

104-0175-10423]

OHS-ICET

corsidors

insurance

open season

---

## Page 2

10

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

SECRET

HUMA- 17726

ECRNCUNANIERE FIE NO

•ROM

*415

Chief of Station, Mexico City

06141

Expelston of two (2) Anti-Communis Studente by

U.N.A.M. Authoricles

ACHICHS REQUIED

hé Octobrella

PARTOS FER EDEUNG

110 INDOLEG REQUIRED

CIDDINNG CAN BE JUDGED

ar CiLAUFES HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCUISO

1. By notles datad 4 Aaguet 1961, Guillerino VEi EZ Pelayo aud Luis

Felipo COELLO Macias were expelled fraun the Univeridad Nacional :

Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM).

2 These iso (2) «esdente iu thy Communto, -deminat1 (Laculy and

tudent body) School ol Economica both had viry excellent achoianue recorda

Thay had both been employed for sore months by (WHUFF)to lijke Cois

munism at the University. Thay both frequently debates in classes azalnet

points mede lor Marsion by Marsis prolensora (ass part of loeu vor.

fos(NHUFF) °| Bola, incidonially, had 10(0) (tho hi, best ¿rado possible) 1a

a Coarse os Marxian. Une ai lhe pointa (lhere are miu in the letters

notifyin them of their aromleon mas thar 1ts198111172

cassos disturbancos tere, ., sarticular, in classes consucted by daestro

Lle. Ramos «RAMIREL Comes, reporteily a barust. Ibe lettero (ol

1 Augus: 1961) notifyin, tem of their expulsionn were signed by Lic.

EILO «MUJICA (who accorain, lo Stalos recorde is a Marxint), Director

of the Schorl of Economica at UNAM.

lhis •rouleion of anti-Commusist sidenta (whereas so Communiso, even

bose sho sina so bura afigias ii Fronicent jennedy, and triel to burn

the V.S. flag) wera expolled. A principal reason for their expulaoss was

tha (daspired) anti-CASTRO rally as UNAM on Z6 July 1761 ia which these

two (2) sudenta were amon, the londers.

4 As 0f September 1961 a lawyer has bees retained by the to (2) atudents.

His legal petition for re admitianos to tha UNAti has been presented (a copy

de attached).

5. For the monthe of August nad September many articles aed (paid)

Advortinanenin on behall of these two (2) #tudente have appeared Coples

of many of there are altached for Headquartora Inforsasion.

6. The swo (2) erudente were Livea private heariaja by Emilio MUJICA

und (LalEr) by lEnacio CHAVEL, ReCOS of Le UNAM. CHAViL allered

the two studento re-instasament al a laler demoster il they woal1 airait!

guilt, promise la writing to ceaso all anti-Communis: activities and otor.

the publicity campalga agatast the University. Both refused to adrade guile,

ho, thas. lald thar thas he would see that nelther ever mas accepted by

any Univerally la the world.

• Ц.

7. The campalon for theen tuo (2) studaata la contaring-.

4IN

CLASSINCATION

PAGE NQ

1OAM

10.57

tant

REPLACES F-94095

$1 :9. 10:14

2N0 91 29

KRICH ANE CRITETE

---

## Page 3

CONTIUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

SHA-LTIZI

8. A copy of the lolor (ol & August 1901) lo VELEI Palayo la attached.

The OnE lO COELLO LaCiAS la identical la concent.

9. Further seports on this case will ho done so lovelopments marran

Willard C. Curtis

11 October 1961

Attachments: (Om 1)

l oy of letter

1 cs od lawyer'a petition

Distribation:

3 - Hgo 8/a8te

5- Files

1

14 5 530

TIMACES ICHA

91 N8 SI M2 A0 98 89

MACH ALL SELETE

CLASUNICABON

SECRET

face no

Sconraners

---

