# 104-10300-10223

## Page 1

104-10300-10223

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

2

ROUTING

4|

51

161

I TO

: DIRECTOR

BERN

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

C/EE 3 (EE NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1555-26 NOV)

DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5,

D/Os 2,

VR

SE CHET 2619072

26 KON 63 IN 6 8 3 4 4

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATE GNVA CITE BERN 2493

RYBAT KUDESK INK

REF BERN 2492 (IN 68312)

10 FOLL STATION COMMENTS RE SUBSTANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAMINATION OF REF MEMO AND ANANITION 6 TELEPHONE ANSWERS

TO ELMARD QUERIES.

2• DELICATE SOURCE REFERRED TO IS

IN LAUSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY

INANITION

REQUEST •

NOT PREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION. APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TO STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIBSON IN CONNECT ION "REVOLUTION" MAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

ser

CONNECTIONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO. ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

INANITION CON 27 NOVEMBER.

3. IN ANSVER TO ELMARD QUERIES INANITION O STATED

INFO

INANIT ION

THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

PROBARLY A FOREIGNER. INANITION & PROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION)

AND HAVE

CHECKED FOR POSSIBLE FURTHER CLUES TO

IDENTITY SPEAKER.

115

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

584

GROUP T

tacluded fever entomotio

downgrading and

destenifeatien

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CHET

IN 683+4 PAGE 2

4. APPEARS CLEAR CISSON REFERENCE THROUGHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WRITH WHICH HE

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

" 5. CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON IN NEM YORK REFERRED TO AS "LY"

(MORE PROBABLY LEES PHONETIC. POSSIBLE THIS COULD SE

REFERENCE TO LEE OSWALD BUT FROM CONIXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

6.. CAN NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC) •

?. FROM CONVERSATION CONTENT CAN NOT IDENTIFY OTHER CALLER.

SPECULATIVE COMMENTS BELOW. MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAKE BETTER

HYPOIHESIS AFTER TALK WITH INANIT IONS RE DETAILS OF PHONE

COVERAGE INCLUDING WHERE UNKNOWN SPEAKER APPARENILY LOCATED.

8. COSE ASSOCIATE GIBSON IS FREDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSONER-

BORN 14. FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

ED IT OR-PUSLISHER. SEE ATT TO ESBA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

INCL CONTACTS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPING. POSSIBLE THESE TWO

MEN WOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH SUT ENCL ISH WOULD BE MORE LIKELY LANGUAGE.

9. POSSIBILITY OTHER CONVERSATIÓN PARTNER IS JACQUES VERGES,

COMMUNIST, FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA REVOLUTION AFRICAINE, NOW BASED

PARISO, NOTE VERGES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH CHICOM LINE IN FRANCE AND

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST"

SPLINTER PARTY CENTERED VEVEY. VERGES, ANDERSON AND GIBSON

ASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUBLICATION NOW BEARS TITLE "REVOLUTION"

SUBT ITLE "AFRICA,

LAT IN AMERIGA, ASIA". EDITIONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENGLISH.

1T. IN ANSWER ELMARD QUERY INANITION 6 STATED

OF: GIBSON CONTINUES AND PROMISED ARRANGE

PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEHE

IN 6834 4PAGE 3

AND ODENVY REP ON PRIORITY BASIS. WILL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 27

NOVEMBER MEET.

110 (INANITION 6 INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

GIBSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 REFERS TO

SWISS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

THAT LATE. WILL CLARIFY AT 27 NOVEMBER MEET.

12. KUBARK ONLY: ODENVY REP BERN CAELING HIS HQS MOST IF NOT ALL

OF ANANITION NEMOS REF. IN INTERESTS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

ANY TRAFFIC HE WISHED CRIGINATE BUT HE PREFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

PRIVACY CHANNEL• NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENTS HE MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF MANIT ION REPORT. ESSENCE BUT NOI ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO HIM ORALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPATCH REF AND THIS CABLE•

HE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6 WILL

CONTINUE FULL COBDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13. KUBARK ONLY: AS HINIED IN INANITION MEMO AND ORALLY

BY (INANITION 6 TO ELMARD, INANIT ION WORRIED RE POSSIBILITY

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH FRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

THAT SOMEHOW IT WOULD LEAK INFO RE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

MANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE

BEL IEVE

WE CAN OBTAIN ALL INFO FROM

OR ANY OT HER COVERAGE

OF GIBSON OR ASSOCIATES AND PROBABLY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE" ARE

SOFT PEDALLED.

14. ANOTHER CABLE FOLLOWS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: "RE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" AND ALSO

WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

SECKET

---

