# 104-10186-10253

## Page 1

104-10186-10253

COUNTRY Chibi

SUNJECT Raul PEREIRA Vazquez

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI 316/01204-64

15 September 1964

1

WOL NAMES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

i964

Washington, D. C.

September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED, INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1961.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the

Source Identifled a photograph of Raul PEREIRA Vazqua ackground Use Only

sald that he is a servant in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

3a Not Reproduce

Source saw PEREIRA in Mexico in March 1964•

Headquarters Comment

1.

A report dated 8 November 1963, stated that Raul PEREIRA

Vazquez left Habana for Mexico on 6 July 1963.

This same

report also identified one Paul PEREIRA, possibly identical

with Raul PEREIRA Vazquez,

as an auxillary at the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City and

is assigned as a waiter..

5

3

Ant $3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3

2

1

STATE

I DI

REP

CINCLANT

(Mole: Field distribution indicated by "="-)

I NAVY

CINCSO #

I AIR

I NSA

I OCR

1 FBI 2

I&NS

INFORMATTON RERORI

INFORMATION FRERORT

LI: CILIA

HIL SA MOBI HE MIDB

WU SAiR il

ALL, SA/CI I

-RIOLAN

WH-WAVE

TOTALS MISA Y (1), ME 1 (2), CIA,

3LE

RID 1

trasson a

FORM NO

OBSOLE'T PRETOUS EDITIONS.

6X1675.9...

NO PROJECT (ASMUG/1)

0501-21/8220-44

Larg

201-739341

120)

3/BR

---

