# 104-10185-10132

## Page 1

104-10185-10132

CENTRAL INTEL SINCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNUSCT JOSe LAIN' Martin Gonzalez

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSENI

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00242-64

27 July 1964

2

Dire OF

INFO.

PLACE &

SOURCE:

1964

Washington; D. C.

• AN EVALUATES INSANON, SOUE GUS AS LE PELO REPORT NO OF CONTIN IS LINAIVE.

A former Cuban IS officer who serred with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964

Headquarters Comments

1. The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source ard includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency,

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of th

ndividuals mentioned in the personality reports without firs

checking with this Agency.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

. Do Not Reproduce

Headquarters Comments

1.

In a report dated 16 April 1964 it was stated that Violeta

PEREZ Aceval, a Cuban wife of a Niexican businessman,

Armia GONZALEZ Beytia, is a good friend of Mireya COUSO,

the wife of Jose iin Martin Conzalez, the Cuban Vice Consul

in Merida, Mexico.

Mireya told Violeta that she and LAIN

were Socialists,

When Violeta remarked

that this was the first step to Communism, Mireya replied that

there is good money in it, but we are not Communists.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STA"3

I ARMY

AlR

NSA

REP. CINCILTY CACSO= iS'S

sor. " sid distriaution indicated Sy "=".)

1E3X

I ося

3

2

1

1 FBI 2

BARB VEER 2 SHE 398

3/pM

==--12/S.1 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

LIAISON *

577-750950

11. 1à

1V-2263

I530

- (11101UG-1)

CSCI-316 '00232-64

COORINATIMG RESEASING

Singeti

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DESEM

- 2-

hi unconfirmed report dated

15 May 1964 stated that Jose LAIN Martin

Gonzulez, Cuban Vice Consul in Merida, Mexico, has been transieried

join derida.

Accurding to the lucal p. ess LAd deir Merida

dus desico Cly On 17 May 1964.

¿ 30 diay 196- report stated that Jose LAN Martir Gonzalez

d nis family arrived in ioxico City on 17 May Isos and left

tus riabna on to May 1964. According to a suurce uf this Agency z4

who is al

the Cuban Embassy instructed ore Mariaro

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DIS: EM

---

