# 104-10116-10267

## Page 1

104-10116-10267

Moll

ind tt : ulykraphed by hloyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.

joori::s inns YIVEl, already a fugitive witness In the

singrian innuiry, Is reportod in the Washlagton prons of 27

.nreli ! "'" as having been polygraphed the provious day on the

6a=s 1rr Invertigatlon by Garrison, According to the prusa

i Vh:l nubmitled lo a polygraph oxaininallon

cosnudipoi et Meloan, Vlrginia by Lloyd FURR. In statenente

lo lhe press. ¡ üRR indicated there vao no indication of

decretion to NOVEL'a charges that Gartison'a caso 1o s

'fr3"::'

D. Mloysl : 137'e Belationahip to Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

1101: 11118. a foriner District of Columbia policemas and row

a : rivair dlefeclive, is a sell-proclalned polygraph "oxpert"

ani eirud! devlce speclaliat. le bas received pablicity in the

pait ior wlanting nound devices for the late F'ulton Lewln, Jr.

inthe.c.

Jary's Couaty vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when be

ntoc s:tud llatening lovices being used againat bornard Goldiine.

In 1011, inforiation vas receired that a Vashington, D. C..

firs. CI.PEX, operated by FURR and Richard L.' BA'ST, was

arre.i iting to sell clectronic oquipment to Communist China via

an agort in Hong iong. (ISD had unclassifled contact with

iRis in 1?62 to noo enalpment offored for sale by FUln. )

C. Viclard t RAST and ReDEY.

Kictard 1.. CAST, a Washinglon, D. C. private detective, galoed

notertily la 1905 ky surning up a milomlog sitnens, poovloualy

uniocateil hy the lepartment, of Justlce, In connection with the

Lobby baler case. Fie la known to operate at least four

enterrrises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

prlrate delecilve agency; 2) REDEX VIETNAM, INC., 2 flrzn

sehdehs. porta a varluty of cornmodieies rnnging froin liquor to

autrarul ilee Intn South Vletram, Including, of lato, 11. S. -racrullnd

goono drle lor a Salgon aigbtclub he li planning: l) KliTs

sil:.. e Henr which celle alrnont anything to anybudy alroar.

•dlier 1i n iasdh Vletnan; and 4) CONSOLIDATEI AMMA TNI::

.. Hr i, wlilch oolle uiall armia to loredga sovernnenle.: mn

paduolo dolloddualo ibroad. BAST aluo producos and dlatrll ut.a

lctla, rallive cuddo and countergudlo devicea in the 11.5. ans!

,n719'

RETURN TO CIR

Backgreund Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CHET

"In, tat-ditas,

Brascalin

---

## Page 2

mill

¡AiT, descrlbed as "unscrupulous

and untrust-

rah, in n050t011v0 attemptod lu contract withanother

priories

•no. Elve for planting a romote-controlled lomb in the

le' i wits ef the lalll Socret Follee, and has been reported

10:00: rierinken similar oxtreme assignments for exile

'n:!? "n: Halll and the Dominican Ropublic. (Based on

irrari "y infotination on file, DCS, In March 1967, decided

igured reviously contemplated contact with BAST us a

molli.. ¡iniormation on Asta.)

titoir?, ind Willlam W. TURNERORANtRTS

1.. "ing: rovided Information that during January 1967.

TURER, Who Identified himself as a frce-lante

write, "initail the offices of the Asla Foundation, reguostiny

in? Sis i singazine article. le stated that he had

w!o in! Corn of New York to gatter Information for

?:i" Inancing of the foundation, rather than,

its actual

....

allustles.

When TURNER concluded the Interview

it ""ling, card with the flem name "REDEX-PACILIC".

..!!

!o he! to have new cards printed. TURork,

it!.", in liaiissod from the FBI ln 1961, la noted to havo

..:rticle In lo November 1966 lanue si LAMPALTS

go in: lich he describos alleged wirotapping, rur-

•ll acry, re, perfored by hin while with the I'l'l.

:?

ni, he clilined to roprosent, la anaintant

::.

¡or ni RAMPARTS vagarine.

Milan DAUT in CIA liceting of Fixllo

"i'.: 9151 k25 attempted to detail the contact of NO."'1.

-q?!"

" ini's connection with BAST, and a pogolt?

since tirteon BAST's organization and LANTelli.

"tallowing inderten the only Cla involvenient In the chair

ne in exploited in subsequent atterple to lin: '!?

мi.".

nfiair In queation. )

0→-

all 1999;

Debon called, kill are

tallo, afrocted a memorandar du in 6lilai,

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NE 1

¡ tie dochmented a conversation be had on

with Raginend CASSAGNOl, an anti-luvalier

=ill. In the memorandur be relatos that the

..tsr.e 1i 1100k place in the hore of Iilchard l.. PAST

met through a noightor, bloyd ittifi.

i 8.

:.nelum selaten CASSAGNOl's background, tunily.

Reported as significant by : wen la is

;?sT that the following week BAST woull be

..a: mblrica of arma to a CASSAGNOL-affiliated tInup

itican Popullic. Oven noted: "Raymond

gives appearance of thinking well of Richard

:.?:.

dECOding to CASSAGNOL, hie brother, jacques.

il.n

nowa 1i457 and respocte him. Thue DAST. in Maie of

..'oonal shortcomtage from the Intelligence etraripoint.

a mi pion as entabllehod channel to al leant car segirir?:

ill: a eponalelon to Duvaller. Since according to hia

no!, BAST la cupplying arms to CAssArN n

.. lurther transnctions of this type via MAil precunitly

'e'e illitrull to arrango." ¿le nlas proviura a detalled

ming ridon or had he learned of RAST, noting that BAST lad

i. ne, In inican distrust of State and AIl and the fact that

:t.. i colo-e roused them" (the Dominicans).

in l'!l report on PAST dated 19 June 1963 reporto that

¡arring Service Reserve Officer, USDS" (hin eivor) lad

ron.-k4661197 1963, his attendance at dinner it MAGT'a hoin

o. 17 spell 1963-

told of his meeting with cáriCiii?..

::a: To ¡ tention to nell arno to the Dominiean lini!'e 1!!

.:°

a cla colated to NAGT Elving a power li attruer 8o. "

or. "i: ion for legal cotablishment of BADE A a 1111.

i. :

... " ' branch of BAST's Arm. Accordiug to Dier,

i!: ritock iia to lio held by the head al tho 1i dativaal

"pi!

gency, the hoad of the DR socret pollce, ant an

in's swell-manccted with Dominican Republle p: llor arri

= 9.0d7e. BAST ls also noted to have toll Duen

ster::" 'iT had mado to "bug" the offire di line' situa

Stat

---

