# 104-10215-10181

## Page 1

104-10215-10181

*RANSMITTAL

OF

TOCS INFORMATION REPORY

CEASSIFICATION

ORIG.

UNIT

112

ROUTING

SECRET

EXT.

anaLintetlkeports

5547

SEP 1 22

0 1 :63

DATE

Septeuber 1963

CONFIRMATIÓN COPTES

SAS 11

INFORMATION COPIES

TDCS -3/558,848

SEEF.

CI/OPS 2, CI/IG, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW,

CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS,

WE 4, WH 6,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

11 September 1963

DISSEMINATION

SAS/R

3, SAS/SI| 1]

SAS/INE 21 SAS/WAYE

SAS/EOB 1 SAS/SO/EH

SAS/CI

SAS MOB

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

STATE

OF

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

SR

PRECEDENCE

XI ROUTINE

BASED ON (FLD. RPT., PROJ.)

HH/PACYI 1

CI/SPG

SR/RP

/WR/S/B

WE/MADR 2

LGRE-0708

(IN-17547)

2

NP (AMLASH)

Llaison

st

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

NO POREIEN DISSEM

RECOMMEND FOR EXO

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

1000 14 -8

SECRET

(AREN PILLEO DE

OINOLILE FERVAOUS EDITIONS

CCORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEAST

COPY

Aitme K kin

SAS/Intel

, a.zr....

(15-89-90-45)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thie

поРогіві

contains information

T98 &A0 384,

transmission or corelation

CLASSIRICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E_T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA/USSR

SUBJECT

1. INFORMATION ON SOVIET MILITARY

2.

PERSONNEL IN CUBA

TRAINING OF CUBAY MILITARY PER-

SONNEL

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/558,848

DATE DISTR. 11 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

EARLI SEPTEMBER 1963

PLACE &

DATE ACO. (11 SEPTEMBER 1963)

APPRAISAL

REFERENCES

D-AC6-03298

IN-17547

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A HIGH-RANKING CUBAN MILITARY OFFICER WEO HAS BEEN ON ACTIVE DUTY

FOR. TRE PAST TEN MONTHS AND WHO HAS GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG PROVI-

NENT CURAN OFFICIALS. TO DATE, SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN

ESTABLISSED.

1. AS OF EARLY SEPTEMBER 1963 THE SOVIET PERSONNEL IN CUBA

COULD BE DIVIDED INTO TWO GENERAL CATEGORIES:

(A) SOVIET MILITARY UNITS WHICH MAN SURFACE-TO-AIR (SAM)

SITES, CRUISE MISSILE SITES, AND RADAR AND COMMUNICATIONS SITES.

TRESE UNITS ARE COMPOSED ENTIRELY OF SOVIET PERSONNEL, INCLUDING

MECHANICS AND SECURITY GUARDS. THEY DO NOT FRATERNIZE WITH

CUBANS AND LIVE IN THEIR OWN CAMPS AND AREAS.

•(B) HIGHER-CALIBER TECHNICIANS AND OFFICERS WHO TRAIN

CUBANS AND ACT AS ADVISERS DOWN TO AND INCLUDING DIVISION LEVEL

IN THE REBEL ARMY. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SOURCE HAS NO

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OCI ONE OCR ORR TAXI

REPCINCLANT

00

FBI

TREASURY

EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM IKD OBSOLETE PRAVIOUE EDITIONS.

(28-259)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFICATIONI - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN -17547

TDCS -3/558,848

PAGE 2

CONFIRMED INFORMATION CONCERNING THE NUMBER OF SOVIETS IN CUBA.

SOME ARE LEAVING BUT SOME ARE ALSO ARRIVING. SOURCE IS NOT AWARE

OF ANY SOVIET INFANTRY OR ARMORED COMBAT UNITS PRESENTLY IN CUBA.

HE STATED THAT ANY UNITS WHICH MAY HAVE FITTED THIS CATEGORY LEFT

WITH THE IR3W'S IN NOVEMBER AND DECEMBER 1962. HE IS CERTAIN THAT

ALL IRBM'S AND BOMBERS HAVE BEEN TAKEN OUT.)

2. CASTRO CONTINUES TO BE UNHAPPY WITH THE SOVIETS AND WILL

NEVER FORGET THE TREATMENT HE RECEIVED FROM THEM IN THE FALL OF 1962.

CASTRO IS MUCH CLOSER TO THE CHINESE LINE BUT REALIZES HE CANNOT

EXIST WITHOUT SOVIET AID. HE INSISTS THAT THE CUBANS BE TRAINED

AND ASSUME CONTROL OF ALL SOVIET EQUIPMENT IN CUBA. BECAUSE CASTRO

BECOMES ENRAGED OVER BEING CALLED ANYONE'S STOOGE AND FEELS SO

STRONGLY AND PROUD OF THE INDEPEVDENT POSITION HE HAS TAKEN, SUCH

AS NOT AUTHORIZING GROUND INSPECTION AND NOT SIGNING THE PARTIAL

TEST BAN TREATY, IT IS BELIEVED THAT HE WILL INSIST THAT THE SOVIETS

LEAVE WHEN THE CUBANS ARE TRAINED AND CAN HANDLE THE EQUIPAST.

3. MIG-19 PILOTS HAVE BEEN TRAINED.

calueuro

QuintanCIN BOTH THE SOVIET UNION

AND CHINA, SOME, SUCH AS PRENDES AND ' VERONITA" (SIC), RECSIVED.

MIG-21 TRAINING EARLY IN CUBA AND MORE PILOTS ARE PRESENTLS TRAINING

IN CUBA. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PRENDES IS PROBABLY CAPTAIN ALVARO

PREDES QUINTANA; VERONITA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH CAPTAIN ENRIQUE

VARONA.) THE MIG-21'S ARE CONTROLLED BY THE CUBANS, BUT THE SOVIETS

REMAIN AS ADVISERS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(15-20-44-87)

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CONTINUATION OF TOES INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 4

PORA 88-1

8-83

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLE

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEW

IN - 17547

TDCS 3/558,848

PAGE 3

4. THE KOMAR VESSELS ARE CONTROLLED AND MANNED BY THE CUBANS

WITH SOVIET ADVISERS.

5. THE CUBANS ARE BEING TRAINED TO HANDLE THE CRUISE MISSILES.

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: SOURCE IS NOT CERTAIN BUT BELIEVES THAT THE

CRUISE MISSILES ARE ALREADY UNDER CUBAN CONTROL. )

6. THE CUBANS ARE NOK RECEIVING CLASSROOM INSTRUCTION IN THE

OPERATION OF SAM'S IN PINAR DEL RIO. THE SAM'S ARE STILL UNDER

SOVIET CONTROL.

7. THE CUBANS ARE ALSO RECEIVING COMMUNICATIONS AND RADAR

TRAINING. CASTRO HAS TAKEN ENGINEERING STUDENTS OUT OF THE UNIVER

SITY OF HABANA FOR TRAINING, WHICH IS INDICATIVE OF THE TI-ORTANCE

HE ATTACHES TO THE TRAINING OF CUBANS AND THEIR ASSUMING CONTROL.

8. THE CUBAN ARMY IS ORGANIZING AN ARMORED DIVISION WHICH

WILL BE UNDER THE COUMAND OF MAJOR ASEVEDO. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH ROGELIO ACEVEDO GONZALEZ WHO WAS PROMOTED

TO MAJOR IN EARLY JANUARY 1963.) NEW TANKS WITH INFRARED FIRING

DEVICES HAVE ARRIVED IN CUBA WITHIN THE PAST THREE TO FOUR MONTHS.

IT IS ASSUMED THAT THESE TANKS AÑE FOR THIS DIVISION.

9. NO SOVIET TROOPS HAVE PARTICIPATED OR ARE PARTICIPATING IN

THE CUBAN ARMY ANTI-INSURGENT OPERATIONS IN THE MOUNTAINS. REGULAR

ARHY DIVISIONS ARE PERMANENTLY STATIONED AT CAMPS THROUGHOUT THE

ISLAND, AND MILITIA DIVISIONS ARE ORGANIZED OR ACTIVATED AS THE NEED

ARISES.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL

3= DoC-RET

170 FOREIGN DISSEM

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

AFGA, 7-63

(75-20-10-871

CONTINUATION OF TDES INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 5

CLASSEICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

10. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO.

TDCS -3/558,848

IN- 17547

PAGE 4

END OF MESSAGE

3-6a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

.. CONTINUATION OF TDES INFORMATION REPORT

ACE 2-41

(13-20-46-177

---

