# 104-10172-10141

## Page 1

104-10172-10141

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

10

DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force W

CASSUNICATION

SECRET

POSED

3P

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARND TUA PEALING

NO KNOLIUTE MIQUIRED

HAT CAMAS

MADQUATIIN DISA

CAN SON MOLTHIS

ACCORE.

Chief of Station, UMHAVE AN

SUBHE CYROSE

AMDENIM

Opropress Report -

30 September 1962

ACTION RI QUAID. ALILALACES

REFERENCE: UFGA 5212, 13 August 1962

SUMMARY - This period has been a very active one for

AMNE!IM l as for all PBPUMF.ll exile patriots in that the build up

of soviet strenath in PBRUMEll has shown the need for more intensive

work if the job is to be done. Subject has continued to exploit

his inowledge and contacts uho have operational potential and has

produced a number of ideas and candidates who are in varinus stages

of development.. He continues to be helpful in any way he can and

steadily becomes more capable as a principal agent type.

question of whether or not to put hin into the AMBUD l organization

remains pendine in view of the larger issue of what specific use

is to be made of that orzanization.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

Following word fron AMDENIM 1 that he was at

one time

a close friend of Jose Llanusa, the head of the PRUMEN deleration

to the Jamaican fames, an attempt to make contact with Llanusa at

the Games was authorized. The results were that Llanusa was

completely inaccessible by the time AMDENIM I arrived in Kineston

as a result of defection inroads already nade in his delevation

Following his return AUDENIM. I provided a lepal traveler fron the

Santiago de Cuba area (Subj. of WAVE 7409) ho was turned over to

the fI franch who obtained considerable intel and operational

information fror him before dispatching him with s! pencils to bass

On tO tho Of AMDENIM l's contacts in Oriente.

AMDENIM I has been on the look out for contacts for the ADDER team:

in the target area. Two separate efforts in this direction were

to either overly involved conmo pians or crossing.

• He has now cone up with a legal traveler from the

area who appears to be able to provide the assistance necessary.

361-251873

1 B355

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPASCHLO

Distribution

- Addressee

"OÃOSS ALTERENCE TO

--"€

11 ACT.

62

OISPATCH MABOL ANO MUSKBER

OCT 1 7 2962

ISSETICATION

Er: z4 421 &

$0: 11:39

ITC.A - 6179

HLADQUARTCRS TALE ARALBER

0201-251853

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use. Only

Do Not Preproduce

---

## Page 2

104-10172-10141

CONTINUATION. OF

DrYDATO

DISPATCH

UFCA-6179

subtect's search for radio orerators resulted in four

candidates by the end of the period. To are herinning training,

one kas unsuitable and the other fcurrently closin out his Job

-Desore entering trainine. Guillermo MASCARD, an AuDENIy l radop

reviously trained and held. for use with theiret u

esfiltree

who would reinfiltrator wastcalled into servico to

join A"STASH. 16

This resulted in MASCAPD'S finally bickin out,

in his words. for.

want of papRIMe policy and plans re paRulEN, cut in the c/o's

opinion for want oi courare, which belier ins nui withheld fron

the search for radops continued and ANENIM 1 indicated at

the end of the period that he had some eist further prospects

including several women.

They are currently being processed.

4.In support of other Station interests AMDENI!! I has spent

considerable time preparing a study of strateric places in eastern

PBRUMEN where the blowing of approximately five hridges would

serve to divide the country into two parts and prevent the troops

in one part fron rapidly coming to the aid of troops in the other

part... These efforts have been forwärded to Intel Support for i

development.

He has also been on the lookout for fisherman leads

which could be developed into ratlines for infiltrating agents

and materiel.

Two such leads appear very worthwhile, one is being

utilized by the SHATTEP. Team and the other will probably be used

by one of the Las Villas teams in preparation.

to good advantage in developing these leads and continues to look

for others while AMLION 1 is assisting in the training of the

SHATTER Team fisherman as interpretor.

•..-

The internal asset AMEPOCH

6 whom ANDENIM 1 developed

thru a lcral traveler who carried in an si

has now been

"contacted thru a YELLO!TAIL III

sea rendezvous and is being

prepared to receive an initial Increment of the LYRE teas for

into the Matanzas area.. It is hopedito nake. AMEPOCH 6 a ratline.

for the remainder of this team and the materiel they will require

to carry out their operational tasks.

See UFGA-6159 for the

YELLOWTAIL III After Action Report on the sea rendezvous....

Just before the end of, the period AMDENIM I reported that

AMDENIM 11 supposedly had word of an immenient uprising on behalf.

-of Rebel Army officers in three provinces.

Considerable effort was.

devoted by the Station to running this lead down only to find

that. AMDENIM 11 was involved with at least one other groud which.

was trying to obtain ODYOKe support and that AMDENIM ll had actuall

had contact with GPFOCUS several davs beforehand. The case brokes

basis of ADENIM li's withholding info on

this contact and

having lied about his activities at YOACRE where he claimed to have

rone out of the fence with the help of NOATH personnel to contact

the movement's leaders.

Although ANDENIM 11 was terminated as a

result of not coming clean, there

now appears to have been at least

a half-hearted attenpt throughout the country to mount an uprising

at approximately the same time. Its dinensions do not appear to

nave been significant.

Unfortunately. whatever potential AMDEVIM 11

hac was destroyed by his unwillingness to level with. us. It shoild

be noted that AMDENIM l merelv passed the lead to us for what it

worth and at no time expressed any real credence in the storv

nor endeavoured to obtain action on the hasis of it.

IYTEbLIGENCE PRODUCTION

APpENT i report which bie a Cuban ared.

Subject Cuban Arms for Columbia is the only

Throunhout the period AMDENI'I provided spot reports on

sirrificant develocments

withir. the exile communisv and

the A BUD l organization.

These included such items as the DRE raid

on lavana, the lanolo Pey meeting in Puerto rico, the URIS diffi-

culties in getting into the AMalD 1 orcanization, Alpha 66, Jerry

Patrick Henning, and his recommendations re reorganizing the AMBUD 1

organization and the maritine situation.. For the most part he

1. 751823

100" 530

3.60

USE PREVIOUS EATION

SECRET

-*N

2

г/gR

---

## Page 3

104-10172-10141

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLAI

'ICATION

SCARET

OISPAICH SYMUD ANO MONSU

UГCЛ-6179

maintains an impartial attitude towards the various exile leaders

and aroups and is always renuinely constructive in his comments.

'le follous the direction of the case Office.' and docs not allow

his disippointrent at the slow pace

of developments towards

liberating PBRUIN to interfere with his work for us.

COSTs - The following expenditures were channeled thru

AMDENIM 1 during

the reporting perjod:

Note that he did not

and has not previously received any remuneration for his own services.

1) ANGLAD I'S WidOWS 01

$ 300.00

2) AULION 1

200.00

3) Lintonico PEREZ Quesada

325.00 fishing boat expenses

Total

$ 825.00

Service was performed for AMDENIl 1 in response to his request

for assistance in obtaininp a re-entry permit for hig Spanish maid

who desired to visit her dying mother in Spain and had not been

able to get thru DUPGE red taDe: on her own.

The matter was taken

care of in less than 36 hours and went a lore way towards convincing

ARDENIM l's family that his absences from home at all hours vas not

its advantages.

10. PLANS - The intention at present is to proceed with

AMDENIM

I in the same terms indicated above.

. The possibilitv continues

for expanding his role of supolving the Statior. with information on des

community activities, operational leads and as front man for activities

not

sufficiently jelled to expose

Station personnel by making him

action coordinator within the AMBUD I organization.

This hinges on

¿decisions yet to be made as to just how the orpanization is going

to fit into future plans.

In the meantime MIDENIM 1 will continue

be used as before with emphasis heing placed on the development

of leads for ratlines to be incorporated in the Fisherman operations

and teams with radio operators to take advantage of the ratlines.

END OF DISPATCH

тоом 53а

8.80

120-

USE PREVIOUS COTION

OLASSIFICATION

701-251823

] CONTRiURO

PACE MO

---

