# 104-10170-10129

## Page 1

104-10170-10129

SIFITO MESSAGE

SECRET

(0015s

PreChoewer

REPRODUCT + CO

PAOHIBITEO

25

C/WHS

RID COPY

1215g Д

SEUR ET 012120Z CITE JUAVE 6911

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR DESENSINLE

REFERENCES DEGECTOR 9ES7S G7219:

R.O.

;:.

c1te

1. THIS IS CABLE NO. 2 OF A SERIES OF THREE CASLES)..

cinate

FOLLOWING IS A SUMMARY FROM UNWAVE. FILES OF WOFACT RELA-

TIONS WIIN THE INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (INCA)

CAS FAR AS OUR FILES INDICATE, THERE WAS NO EARLIER RELA-

TION SHIP WITH THIS GROUP. STATION FILES DO NOT INDICATE

WHEN INCA WAS ESTABLISHED. ORGANIZATIONAL IMPETUS AND

FUNDS APPARENTLY COME FROM WEALTHY NEW ORLEANS FIGURES,

INCLUDING DR. ALTON OCHSNER (OF THE OCHSNER CLINIC)

AND WILLARD E. ROBERT SON. IN RECENT YEARS FUNDS HAVE SEEN

SUPPLIED BY THE SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR. CO. AN INCA LETTERLEAD

WITH ALL OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS LISTED IS AVAILABLE IN

PISAVE FILES.)

2. IN JANUARY 1965 INCA SPONSORED AN APPEARUNCE IN

NEW ORLEANS OF JUANITA CASTRO.

SALVADOR LEW WHO IS

JUANITA CASIRO'S BUSINESS MANAGER WAS ALSO INVOLVED WITH

THE INCA OFFICIALS IN THE PLANNING AND ARRENGENENIS FOR

SECRET

IS COPY

14ly 6?

194-303-17

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PAGE 2 UNWAVE 6911 SECRET.

THE APPEARANCE. JUANITA CASTRO MADF & SPEECH AND WAS

GIVEN ANNAWARD SY INCA AT A DINNER SPONSCRED BY THE

GHOUP AND ATTENDED. BY CIVIC LEADERS AND FEPS OF ALL

NEWS MEDIA. THIS APPEARANCE OCCURED SON LITER THE

ARRIVAL OF MISS CASTRO IN THE U.S. AND NOT LONG AFTER

HER DEFECT ION.

THERE YAS A FLURRY OF ACTIVITY AND A

LOT OF INTEREST IN HER AT THAT TIME AND INCA MAD A PAR-

TICULAR INTEREST SINCE THEY DISTRIBUTED HUNDREDS OF TAPES

IN BOTH ENGLISH AND SPANISH CONTAINING JUANITA CASTRO'S

DECLARATIONS MADE AT THE TIME OF HER SURFACING IN MEXICO.

(THIS IS A PARI OF THEMINCA "TRUTH TAPES" SERIES). TKE

AÑARD WAS IN RECOGNITION. OF THE VALUS OF T'ESE

TAPES:

3. THE ONLY SUBSEQUENT CONTACT BETWEEN UNWAVE ASSEIS

AND INCA ‹BEYOND SOME CASUAL CORRESPONDEN, IS HAS BEEN

BETWEEN

JAND EDWARD BUTLER, EXECUTIVE VICE-

PRESIDENT CAND PRIME MOVERS OF INCA, WHEN THE LATTER WAS

IN THE UNWAVE AREA RECENTLY FROMOT INS THE INCA FILM ON

ÉCASTRO - HITLER IN HAVANA: THE STATION MAS WANTED TO

AVOLE ANY MORE JUANITA CASTRO INVOLVEMENE VITM INCA DECAUSE

ON ITS EXTREMIST POLITICAL ORNERE N 24

SERVED

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PAGE 3 JIWAVE G911 SECRES

AS OUR "BUFFER" TO ACCOMPLISH IHIS.

4=

THE INCA OFFICIALS HAVE NEVER MADE ANY

ALLEGATIONS CONCERMING WOFACT CONTROL OR GUIDANCE OF

MISS CA STR O

DIO OUR KNOHLEDGE, ARE NOT

AWARE OF WOFACT INVOLVEMENT WITH THEM. IMWAVE

BELIEVES THAT NO INCA OFFICIALS HAVE HAD ANY OFFICIAL

CONTACI WITH WOFACT OFFICERS. IT IS BELIEVED THAT

HEADQUARIEGS CAN BEST SUPPLY INFORMATION CONCERNING

ANY/T IES BETWEEN CFC AND INCA.

SECRET

BT

NNNN

SECRE

100:300-17

---

