# 104-10059-10212

## Page 1

104-10059-10212

SECRET

9 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Possible Additional Agency Support Furnished Howard Hunt

10.

We have reported earlier an out-of-channel request by

Howard Hunt for a name trace in December 1971 on a Costa Rican.

This was put back in channels by forwarding the name trace report

to Peter Jessup, who then held the position of senior Agency officer

with the NSC Staff in EOB:

2. Jessup has submitted a memorandum dated 31 May 1973

(received in O/IG on 6 June) stating that Howard Hunt,

"submitted various names for Headquarters traces

of certain Latin Americans, not in a sealed envelope.

This was hatled orally and by telephone I advised the

chief of the appropriate division that they were being

forwarded and to consult with the DDP about the

propriety of responding. I also telephoned the DDP.

I then wrote my own memo to General HAIG calling

his attention to the fact that an individual--I named

HUNT --was tracing foreign nationals without reference

to the NSC Staff."

Haig is reported by Jessup as returning the memorandum with the

word "thanks" noted on its face.

3. We have spoken with Rob Roy Ratliffe, Jessup's successor

with the NSC Staff, who states (in conversations on 6 and 7 June)

that it was not customary for Jessup to keep records of this sort

of transaction, and that a search of the files does not disclose a

copy of the memorandum to General Haig. Mrs. Evelyn De Pue

(Jessup's secretary at the time and now Ratliffe's) spoke with Mrs.

Tat Headguarters, who reported a memorandum from

Chief, WH Division, in December 1971 forwarding to Jessup a

name trace on a Costa Rican (the one noted above) for Hunt. No

other such records were found.

STORET

5849

Catt. to Doc.#

• 4048)

JIMPOST CL 3421319C

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEBRET

4. Jessup is now on IDY at Headquarters and was interviewed

(7 June by telephone and 8 June in person). He first recalled that

"shortly after" Hunt was appointed to the White House--he thinks

before the plumber unit was formed, although this is ex post facto

reconstruction:-Hunt made a request for name traces on Latin

Ame ricans.

He thinks this involved Guatemalans and Costa Ricans.

I pointed out that Hunt's White House appointment was 6 July 1971.

As Jessup discussed it he placed the time the last couple of months

of 1971 or the first month of 1972. He cannot recall how many name

traces were involved, but is certain that the total was more than

one--'just a few; five, three, two or four."

He enclosed Hunt's

request in an envelope and forwarded it with a note that someone

had best check with Tom Karamessines as Hunt was no longer an

Agency employee. Jessup says he didn't know what Hunt was doing

or what he had in mind, and was concerned that Hunt might make

Agency. Secret name trace material available to outsiders.: Jessup's

office routinely handled a low volume of name trace requests from the

NSC Staff, but always in such instances he knew who it was for and how

it was to be used.

5. Jessup said that his office had little other contact with Hunt.

He saw him in the elevator in EOB once or twice, but never had

occasion to discuss business matters. Once someone phoned asking

for Hunt's telephone extension (which was difficult to get, as the

White House switchboard did not give out numbers freely). Out of

curiosity he also got Hunt's room number and wandered down (he

recalls it as Room 106 EOB) where he found a sign on the door

saying "Plumber, " very much as it might have said "Janitor." He

attached no significarce to it at the time,' the term "Plumber" meaning

nothing to him.

6. On one occasion Jessup took his daughter to Blues Alley, and

saw Hunt there with some well-to-do Californians. He thought Hunt

had some association with the place as a public relations man, although

he thinks it would have to be a very small account. I told him of Hunt's

reported interest in jazz, which was news to Jessup. To forestall

Hunt's thinking that he (Jessup) might be playing around with teenagers

he took his daughter over to introduce her. His daughter felt that

Hunt was a man very pleased with himself. Jessup had no other

recollections.

- 2=

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

7. Mr. Broe (then Chief, WH Division) has no recollection of any

name traces handled for Hunt other than the one forwarded over his

(Broe's) name on 13 December 1971. He recalls discussing that with

his deputy, Jim Flannery.

He has discussed this with Flannery, who

has checked the records of WH and has found no other such records.

At this time it seems unlikely that we will answer the questions this

presents.

Was Hunt's out-of-channel request (which WH put back in

channel) the one Jessup recalls, with embellishments? Or did Hunt

make additional requests, through channels, that were not serviced?

We have the one recorded name trace, on a Costa Rican, and no others.

12 Beibel

S. D. Breckinridge

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SUBNET

4 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Secretary, CIA Management Committee

SUBJECT

: Addendum to Chronologies on "Watergate"

1. On 8 December 1971 MI. Howard Hunt requested a CIA employee

known to him personally, Miss Elizabeth Mcintosh, to assist in a name

trace on a Costa Rican citizen, Jorge GONZALEZ Marten, who claimed

to be head of the Costa Rican National Independent Party. On 13 December

1971 the report was forwarded to Peter Jessup, Senior Staff Officer,

National Security Council, from the Chief, WH Division. Gonzalez was

reported to be a millionaire, with various holdings in Costa Rica, and an

unidentified connection with IBM. He had lived in the U.S. for a number

of years and seems to have formed his party in December 1971.

2. The genesis of the requested name trace is not known, and

subsequent use of the information is not knowa

(Signed). William V. Broe

William V. Broe

Inspector General

5850

(Att. to DOC # 4048)

056735.

CL22217

Sc.

4537:

§ 5-11%.

21222

nant dete

(valess impossible, insert dale or ereat)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

The Chief, Western Hemisphere Division released the cable

which informed the Santiago Station Chief that the three sub-machine

guns and ammunition were being sent as requested by the Station.

There was no specific external approval for the shipment of

the arms other than the initial authorization from the President

for the conduct of the Track Two operation.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SECRET /22A311

---

## Page 6

14-00000

NO NOT FACEED 69

TTE

TACTERS PER LIME, INCLUDIME SPACES. (

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TE 18 October 1970

Copy

RUESNA-2FF.4

of

(CLASSIFICATION)

(DATE AND TIME FILED)

431

IMMEDIATE SANTIAGO (EYES ONLY"

MiliTARy

18 23 11 z 0cT70 CITE HEADQUARTERS - 856

REF: SANTIAGO 562

SUB-MACHINE GUNS AND AMMO BEING SENT BY REGULAR T

COURIER LEAVING WASHINGTON 0700 HOURS 19 OCTOBER DUE ARRIVE

SANTIAGO LATE EVENING 20 OCTOBER OR EARLY MORNING 21 OCTOBER.

PREFERRED USE REGULAR

COURIER-TO AVOID BRINGING UNDUE

ATTENTION TO OP.

END OF MESSAGE

5851

CAtt. to DOC.#$ 4048)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

91788 be

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

UTHEMTICASINN OFFICIE

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHIORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

"205

1408-184

t0-:i

---

## Page 7

14-00000

DO NOT ENCIED 69 TYPETRITTEN

PRA LINÉ, INCLUDING SPACES.!

T:

RESTRICTED HANDLING

E:

18 October 1970

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

of

SECRET

FLiESNA

MiLITARY

ZFEN

-(EL

FICATION)

SECRET

IDATE

ANO TIME

ILED)

18 16 31 2 0c770 CITE HEADQUARTERS 854

2f30

: IBEDIATE SANTIAGO (EXES ONLY

REF: SANTIAGO 562

I. DEPENDING HOWA

18 OCTOBER YOU MAY WISH SUBMIT INTEL REPORT F

CONVERSATION GOES EVENING

§SO HE CAN DECIDE WHETHER SHOULD BE DISSEED.

CICH-CE

• 2. NEY SUBJECT: IF I

HE PLANS LEAD COUP, OR BE ACTIVELY

AND PUBLICLY INVOLVED, WE PUZZLED WHY IT SHOULD BOTHER HIN IF

MACHINE GUNS CAN BE TRACED TO HIM. CAN WE DEVELOP RATIONALE

_ ON WHY-GUNS MUST BE STERILE? WILL CONTINUE MAKE EFFORT-PROVIDE

CFFICER

THEM BUT FIND OUR CREDULITY STRETCHED BY, NAVY

SINGLEADING:

HIS TROOPS WITH STERILE GUNS? WHAT IS SPECIAL PURPOSE FOR

THESE GUNS? WE WILL TRY SEND THEM WHETHER YOU CAN PROVIDE

EXPLANATION OR NOT.

END OF MESSAGE

58.52

(Att.

to DOC#

4048

RELEASING OFFICEN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

ICATING OFFICER

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

7205

180.101

---

## Page 8

14-00000

(

18 14 3 2 UcT 70

SEGRET 181408Z OCT 78 CITE SANTIAGO 562

IMMEDIATE HEADQUARTERS

i ...

REFS?

A• SANTIAGO 551

B. SANTIAGO 558

two Chikan

SAME MET CLANDESTINELY EVENING 17 OCT WITH JUS

Frimes

LEG

listices

WHO TOLD HIM THEIR PLANS

WERE MOVING ALONG BETTER THAN HAD THOUGHT POSSIBLE. THEY

ASKED THAT. BY EVENING 18 OCT CRARRANGE FURHISH THEM WITH

EIGHI TO TEN TEAR GAS GRENADES•. WITHIN 48 HOURS THEY NEED THREE

45 CALIBRE MACHINE GUNS ("GREASE GUNS"? WITH SB0 ROUNDS AMMO

ONE OffICeR

EACH. ENCE COMMENTED HAS

_THREE MACHINE GUNS HIMSELF BUT CAN

BE IDENTIFIED-BY SERIAL NUMBERS AS HAVING BEEN ISSUED TO HIM

THEREFORE UNABLE, USE THEM.

atticers

ESSAY SAID THEY HAVE TO MOVE BECAUSE THEY BELIEVE

THEY HOW UNDER SUSPICION AND BEING WAICHED BY ALLENDE SUPPORTERS.

everticas

WAS LATE TO MEETING HAVING TAKEN EVASIVE ACTION TO SHAKE

POSSIBLE SURVEILLANCE BY ONE OR TVO TAXI CABS WITH DUAL

ANTENRAS WHICH HE BELIEVED BEING USED BY OPPOSITION AGAINST

HI Mo

5853

CAtt to Doc#

4048)

---

## Page 9

14-00000

PAGE 2 SANTIAGO 56 SECRET

CHARE

SA ASKED IF RISE

SARI HAD AIR FORCE CONTACIS.

Cariet

THEY ANSWERED THEY DID NOT BUT WOULD VELCOME ONE•

SEPARATELY

HAS SINCE IRIED CONTACT GeT

TRYING UNTIL ESTABLISHED. WILL URGE

CESARE

MEET WITH LONERALI

пік:5.

SEGONELH

ASAP* S

I COMMENTED TO STATION IHAT

HAS NOT TRIED CONTACT HIM SINCE REF A TALKO

LIFTEE

• COMMENT: CANNOT TELL WHO IS LEADER OF THIS MOVERENT

BUT STRONGLY SUSPECTS IT IS ADMIRAL

IT WOULD APPEAR

his

FROM LongE

PREAD ACTIONS AND ALLEGED ALLENDE: SUSPICIONS

ABOUT THEM THAT UNLESS THEY ACT NOW THEY ARE LOST. IRYING

GET MORE INFO FROM THEM EVENING 18 OCT ABOUT SUPPORI THEY BELIEVE

THEY HAVE.

S• STATION PLANS GIVE SIX TEAR GAS GRENADES CARRIVING NOON

CreATE

Perit Fees Giffiests

18 OCT BY SPECIAL COURIERS TO KURNS FOR DELIVERY TO ME

False Firs officer

INSTEAD OF HAVING

SEEME DELIVER THEN TO VIAUX GROUP. OUR

REASONTNG IS THAT ER DEALING EXIYACTIVE DUTY OFFICERSO

ALSO

FEELS LEAVING EVENING 18 OCT AND WILL NOT BE REPLACED

Cief 72

Cripiz

WILL SIAY HERE. MENCE IMPORTANT THAT KUMA CREDIBILITY

WITH MEN

BE STRENGTHENED BY PROMPT DELIVERY WHAT

---

## Page 10

14-00000

PAGE 3 SANTIAGO 562 SEC REI

THEY REQUESTING. REQUEST HEADQUARIERS AGREEMENT BY 1508 HOURS

COOP IE

LOCAL TIME 18 OCT ON DECISION DELIVERY OF TEAR GAS TO BEBS!

VICE

6• REQUEST PROMPT SHIPMENT THREE STERILE 45 CALIBRE MACHINE

QUAS AND AMMO PER PARA 8 ABOVE, BY SPECIAL COURIER IF NECESSARY.

PLEASE CONFIRM BY 2B00 HOURS LOCAL TIME 18 OCT THAT THIS CAN.

COPIE

HiS UNPETS

BE DONE SO ARE MAY INFORM AN

NO ACCORDINGLY. GP j

SECRE.I

---

