# 104-10103-10292

## Page 1

104-10103-10292

LLADDIFIEU MESSAGE

34. SECRET

ROUTING

18!

• DIRECTOR

2

3

FROM

ACTION:

C/WE 2 (WE/BC AND WH/3 NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1759-27 NOV 63)

NFO

DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

C/CI,

/C/SAS 2, VR; S/is 5

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

Ho£0110-1

SECRET 2721257

authorised: DE SENSITIZe

Z7 No 63 IN69233

PRIORITY DIR CITE

RYDAT KEYWAY JASMINE

1277 Signad:

Dartin

R.0. *1 - irit _

Ci/R-A

Note: It cssirus ion, cite

reasons and coordinate

10 REVIEW CURRENT JASIME INDICATES NEHEAL REACTION OF CUBAN

MBASSADOR CRUZ AND HIS STAFF TO REPORT OF ASSASSINATION PRESIDENT

WAS ONE OF HAPPY DELIGHT• AFTER FURTHER INFO WAS RECEIVED

NDICATING THAT OSWALD HAD CONNECTIONS WITH FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA.

COMMITTEE THERE WAS SOME APPREHENSION CONCERNING POSSIBLE U•S.

REACTION®

Jocument Number

1976

APR

Hor FOlA Review on

20

SPEECH OF CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO UN INDICATED TO AMBASSADOR CRUZ

THAT HE AND HIS STAFF MIGHT BE EXPECTED ADOPT MORE SOMBER ATTITUDE

IN PUBLIC. SOME TIME LATER AMBASSADOR CRUZ RECEIVED CABLE, APPARENTLY

SIGHED"ROA", WHICH ORDERED AMBASSADOR AND HIS STAFF TO GOVERN THEIR

ACTIONS BY OFFICIAL ATTITUDE OF GOVT TO WHICH THEY ACCREDITED.

CRUZ THEREUPON ISSUED INSTRUCTIONS TO HIS STAFF AND TO CUBAN

CONSULATES AND TRADE OFFICE TORONTO AND MONTREAL TO "CEASE LOOKING

HAPPY IN PUBLIC"®

201-289248

30 WHEN IT WAS ANNOUNCED IN CANADA THAT AN OFFICIAL REQUIEM HIGH

MASS WOULD BE RELD, CRUZ, DECIDED THAT ON BASIS HIS INSTRUCTIONS

FROM HAVANA HE WOULD HAVE TO ATTEND ALTHOUGH HE MADE, IT CLEAR THAT HE

D: 200-5-41

0-=.

SECRET

27N8063

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUP &

shorted for sol

Hereprody are

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

Number

Fia storilo copy, of tris docuant

CLASSIFIED: MESSAGE

IN 6: 9283 PAGE 2

WOULD NOTDO SO IF HE HAD ANY PERSONAL CHOICE IN THE MATTER. CRUZ

ORDERED OTHER MEMBERS HIS STAFF NOT TO TAKE PART IN OFFICIAL MASS

OR ANY PRIVATE CEREMONIES OF MOURNING•

4. THIS INTO RCUD ORALLY FROM SMACQUIRESON BASIS QUICK REVIEW

JASMINE AND BELIEVED ESSINTIALLY ACCURATE®

SMABOVES

WILL PROVIDE

WRITTEN REPORT IN DUE COURSE.

5o STATION HAS CONFIRMED THAT AMBASSADOR CRUZ DID ATTEND REQUIEM

MASS AS OFFICIAL REP OF HIS GOVT®

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *Because of obvious significance any scrap of information

which bears on President's assassination, desire stations screen carefully all

audio tapes)since 22 November 1963 for comments

and cable any significant

information so obtained.

SECKET

---

