# 104-10180-10104

## Page 1

10410180-10104)

iane

RSTURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

5 Novenber 1984

MSHORANDUM FOR:

do. Jonn l. Crlanlne

coordinator of Cuban Affadra

SUBJECT:

Ares Collary to Manual HAY Moverone

The follootas aroundo han been socalved zy

"trou Costa lica:

"l.

Ambazsador Telles asks that the following

be discursed vith appropriate Department officors

including Assiatant Secrotary Mann.

In a discussion +1th President Orlich ro

aras ahloneat toted in Stato Add on 3 Novunber.

the Aubabrador learned that arud are being surchased

by Nanuol rAY.

Arthuugis aleutenant Colonol Fernando

FIGULY Pulses aa7 Indicated to an Aray alecion EQuice

that the snipest 1111 antor Costa kies, the Presidont

15 of tho opinion toot aras vill not core here.

Noither fis Fresident nor iguls has Indicated ultinate

desigantion ol

The President furthor reponted to tho

Ambaenador that both lay and Manuel ARTIlE had told

"confidouttally" that the V.3. Governont 15

boulnd thom, but they had promised their U.s.

contacte not to revoal this.

this disclosuro,

tho Prosident Indicated s11llagoess

tu cooperato sita Ray to holp the U.d. and thus, in

this inatanco (as 1n Preylous

case wits Artia),

assignod Flasis to bandle arranginento.

President.

donires assurance that the

Government cants hay to have this shipmont

and that thla salynent and Couta Rica's continuo

participation o111

coniributo to achievowont of t1s

important U.j. sojectivo.

In other words, Presideut

Orilen bas

Indicated a sillingnosa to atles his nac:

WBR

---

## Page 2

out and that of his country 1f the U.8. Coveraneat

enlako tila 1o roally vorthrallo.

"*. Unlona ebore are overriding rossons, the

Sabary reconnenda againet the ablpaent of arms vith

U.3. markings to Costa Rica.

shipment cannot be kept socret and could create a

real probles for tie present Government (roverse of

Venezucla Castro cache).

Tho babaany la also

that State A14 arrived with no controls.

"3. Unless ve are preparod to run the riak of

disclosure that the U.s.

Governdst in Lavolved 1a

"8. The Ambanuador destros Inatruction in order

to answer President Orlich's query and also 18 ane

now Stato A-44 l8 to bo anavered.*

03

[Eruca Be Choover

I/8R

---

