# 104-10400-10296

## Page 1

110410400-10296)

(

(

8770F

XAAZ

35907

SUMMARY of Relevant Information on Lee Harvey OSWALD at 0700%

24 November 1963.

TASTELET

That.

-OT 81 11.2.0

6716 89r. Eat

05g (5)

Fe PARE

850/843

1. Our first Information on OSWALD came from a technical

operation 1n) Mexico Cityand was cabled ia 01l9 October 1963. It

revealed that on 1 October 1963 Lee OSWALD had been in touch there

with Soviet Consul. Valery KOSTKOV about a telegram which the

Soviet Embassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Embassy In

Washington. The data showed that OSWALD had also been at the Soviet

Embassy on 28 September. Traces showed OSWALD was a former U. S..

defector to the USSR and on 10 October CIA Headguarters notified the

FBI, State and the Navy (OSWALD had been a Marine). Our Mexico Station!

was told to pass its Information on OSWALD to the Mexico City offices

of the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Embassy.

Since our Agency is not supposed to Investigate U. S. citizens abroad

for FOIA Review on

without special request, we did nothing further on the case.

2. After the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November,

! Mexico Station] which immediately recalled its estlier report on OSWALD

[and cabled us about 1t, began researching all its files and records for

reports which might relate to him. It turned up pictures of a man

• believed to be OSWALD entering the Soviet and Cuban Embassies on

[various days]in October, Including I October, but wen

some of these

pictures were sent to the FBI In Dallas they proved to be someone other

2.

CLASSIFICATIGUL MAY

197

CONDUCTED ON.

•IMPET CL BYO 1220%

RECORD COPY

26 nor 63

201-289245

This document [0130-0592] the same as document

[0429-0149]. Doc. 0130 was DENIED; the other

document 0429 was released with deletions!

---

## Page 2

13-00000

than OSKAID. Moxico Station bao, to date, found no pictures of

OSWALD entering the Sovlet or Cuban Embassy.

3. The search did reveal more data from technical operations;

however. This Information, [which cons in 1n great masses, bad not

been previously associated with OSWALD because his name is not

actually mentioned In 1t, but the subject matter shows 1t 1s about

him, land our expert monitor says the voice is Identical with the

voice of I october known to be OSWAID's.)

4. This further [technical Information coverse round-robin of]

(telephone calls and visits which OSWAID made to the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies In Mexieo CIty between 27 September and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemented by reports on his travel in and out of Mexico

obtained by the U. S. Consulate In the border town of Nuevo Laredo from

Mexican Inmigration Service records.

5. In briel, all this information shows that Lee Harvey. OSWALD

entered Mexico (apparently by car) at Nuevo Laredo on 26 September

1963, claiming he was a photograpber, living in New Orleans and bound

for Mexico City. On 27 September he was 1n Mexico City|phoning the]

Soviet Embassy]to ask for a visa so be could go to Odessa, ussr.

28 September, he was at the Cuban Embassy, [and SIlvia DURAN, & Mexican

Employee of the Cuban Embassy, telephoned the Soviet Embassy about his

problem. It seems that OSWALD (whoBe same 18 not mentione)] wanted a

Cuban transit visa so he could go to Cuba and wait there for a Soviet

---

## Page 3

13-00000

ECHET®

-3-

visa which would permit him and his wife to go on to the Sovlet

Ua10n. [SIlvle DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant

him the visa. A while later a Soviet official calle Silvia DURAN

back and explains that the visa applicant had been dealing with

the Soviet Consulate in Washington about the same matter and that

they could not be sure that he would ever get the Soviet visa.

The Soviet official added that the applicant had a letter showing

he belonged to an organization in favor of. Cuba. SIlvia DURAN and

the soviet official agree to table the matter.]

6. On 28 September 1963, OSWALD again visits the Cuban Embassy

[and talks to S11via DURAN) about the same matter, [and she phones the

Soviet Embassy. OSWALD also talke to a Soviet official on her phone

and says he will come to the Soviet Embassy and give him what 1s

apparently a forwarding address where he can be reached. There 1s

some hint this address may be in Cuba.

7. Da 1 October, OSWALD bas his phone conversation with Soviet | ugju...

Consul KOSTIKOV about his visa, and on the same day, OSWALD phones

sin, dares

the Soviet Military Attache about the same matter. The Military Attache

gives him the number of the Consul. Finally, on 3 October, OSWALD

phoned the Military Attache again and tried to talk about a visa, but

differcat"

the Mllitary Attache again referred him to the Consul and give bin'

the right phone number.

8. That same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD drove back into the

United States at the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo, Texas crossing polat. He

---

## Page 4

13-00000

had travelled on a Mexican Tourist Card In lieu of paEspOrt.

9. [on 23 November 1963, Mexican authorities, who get the same)

technical Intonation which we doj and who had noticed the name of

Lee OSWALD In 1t, arrested Silvia DURAN and her husband and Interrogated

them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee

OSWALD bed professed, to be a. Commnist and an admirer of Castro. She

and her husband are being held incommmicado and their arrest will

not be made know, for the time being.

10. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico

and of their principal intelligence officers, including KOSTIKOV,

since the assassination of President Kennedy, [by both technical and

physical surveillance, shows nothing unusual.

12. [Mexican President Iopez Mateos 18 aware of this case and

He will doubtless support any

further police action which is necessary

---

## Page 5

13-00000

%..

at 0700 c

24 Hovember: 1963.

"Too"

Document Number

429-149

for FOlA Review ori

AUG 1976

revealed that in 1 October 1963 Lao OND sed best In touch then

With Sorlet Consul Valery KOSlISOY chort & telegras thich the

we. Sortet Inberry vas. tupposed to send on him to the Borlet seberor 1a

• lashington. The dets shored that OSKAlD had alro been at the Sordet

defector to the USE and on 10 Cotoder CI1 Headquarters sottfiel the

TBI, Sesto and the Maty (OSTAID bad DeEa a Marlaa), Ocs Modes Statio,

tas tala to pess 1ts InTUSIatIOn On OTAID to the Heado CIty Offleal

of tbe fBI, the Ilgiatos and Istaslisation Serric and the Esbessy.

Since OVI AgeRoy la not supposed to Investigate U. B. eltisins abrand.

vithout spectal sequent, ve did nothing furiber on tas erse.:

2. After the assasslestion or Prestient Kemedy es 22 foresbes,

¡sedeo Station, which Imodistely recalled fts eller report on CHAr

began genesching all its slles ad

cards for

reporto which mlott solto to him, It turned El plotures of a sen

belleved to be OSHALD enterters the Sortet and Cabar Babessles.

pictures were sent to the FI, 11 Dallas they juared to be sassane elbo

---

## Page 6

13-00000

know-li's

ted. tap

tam OSMAID, Medeo Station sas, to date, Icual Do plotures ot

SAID esterdog the Bordet or laden Essesty.

"i'" 3. The secreh did suroal soro data,

) had not

Deen puerlovely astoclated vith OSHAlD because ida sae 1a pot

acterly sentlened 10 it, Sit the subject Istter shout it 11 about

21591

This farther!_

"alta which OSAlD sado to the sorlot and Cabos

basales In Merleo City between 27 Septezber 8ul 3 October 1963-

Ta1s bes been rapplemented by seports el his datal ls ani cast of llerdes

obtained by the U.S. Coarulete In the barder tora d Duero Ieredo indi

endan Digratiis Servica secords.

5.. In bodes, ell thia larceates shors that lee EasTer OSKAlI

entered Merleo (esperently by car) at thero laredo ca 25 sesteer

1563, claltag be vas a photograbes, 1171ng 1e J67 Delia and Desa

tor trico City. O1 27 Septaber he Nas 1n HerdeO City!

ill for a visa go ho could go to Clessa, ussRo. lo

28 Septenber, to was at the Caber DemaesT!

It seers that OSHALD!

carted a

Cuban transit ties so be could go to labs soù valt tiero for & soriet

---

## Page 7

13-00000

vian which weald peradt his end his wife to go on to the soviet

On 23 Sey

1963, OSMALD agrita riaits tbe Caber EnDeRsT

about the same satter,

8. That sena day, 3 Octodes 1963, OSKAID drova bacis tuto the

United States at the lunto Laredo-latedo, Teras erosIlng polit...

---

## Page 8

13-00000

-had trarelled on a leders Tourlas Card II Ileu Of passport.

9.

10e Obserration ef the Sortet and Guben Soberale

el 13 Herdço:

and at ther policel Intelligence areera, 15

neloding KOSTI

saco the assurancisca a President somedy.

share nothing wure?:

---

