# 104-10133-10341

## Page 1

104-10133-10341) :

CECHET

CONFIDENTIAL

24 June 1956

MEMORANDUM FOR:--Isputy Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

• MARRU, Robert A.

1. This memorandum is for information only.

2. In August 1950, Mr. Richard M. Bissell approached

Colonel Shefiield Edwards tó determine if the Office of Security

had assets that may assist in a sensitive mission requiring

• gangator-type action. The mission target was(the liguidation ci)

Fidel Castro.

3. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group

was made privy to the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his

approval. Colonel J. C. King. Chief, WH Division, was briefed,

but all details were deliberataly concealed from any of the

JMWAVE oificials. Certain ISD and Commo personnel partici-

pated in the initlal planning atages, but were not witting of the

purpose of the mission.

Robert A. Maheu was contacted, briefed generally on

the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an en

tree into the gangster elements as the first step toward accom-

plishing the desired goal.

5. Mr. Maheu advised that he had met one Johnny Roselli

on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew

him casually through clients, but was given to understand that

he was a high-ranking member of the "syndicate" and controlled

all of the ice-making machines on the Strip. Maheu reasoned

that, if Roselli was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly

had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.

CLASSIFIED BY 06334E IDAYT

EXENPT FROV GENEGAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF !.! I:d: INENPRiON CATEGORY:

§ 58(1.0::

• {o! (airole one or mere)

AUTOBIANCALLY DECLASSIFILD ON

downquaded. to confidential

(muless impossible, insert date of arent)

CONFIDENTIAL

FES CALY

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

6. Maheu was asked to approach Roselll, who knaw Maheu

as a porsonal relations executive handling domestic and foreign

accounts, and tall him that he had recently been retained by a

client who represented several international business firms

which were suffaring heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result

of Castro's action. Thay were convinced that Castro's removal

as the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price

of $150, 000 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be made

clear to Roselli that the U. S. Government was not, and should not,

becoma iware of this operation.

7. The pitch was made to Roselli on 14 September 1960 at

the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His initlal reaction was

to void getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he

agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew the

"Cuban crowd. " Roselli made it clear he did not want any monay

8. During the week of 25 September, Maheu was introduced

to Sam who was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.

His tritial imor ssion o? San was that of a hard, uncouth indi-

vidushwho looked ind actod lik: 1 common.run-of-the-mill hood

lun.. However, his living accommodations at the hotel bellad

thise is did the fact that

waheu learned Sam was under periodic

surveillance by the FBI., It was several weeks after his meeting

with Sam and Joe, who was Identified to him as a courier operating

between Havana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of

these individuals in the Sunday supplemental "Parade." They

vere identified as Momo Salvatore Glancina and Santos Irafficant,

respectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's

ten most-wanted men. The former was described as the Chicago

chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the

latter, the Cosa Nostra boss of Cuban operations. Maheu called

this office immediately upon ascertaining this information.

9. In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing

this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but,

if he could ba furnished with some type of potent pill, that could

CLASSIFIC BY 0635486 1299Y76

EXEMPT FRO:: GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE Cr

.cc.% ISRiCTiON CATEGORY:

§ 58(1).6

•=?! (sirale one os moro)

• AUTURALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

Howingraded to confdentral

(salesa impossible, insert date or eveat)

CONFIDENTIAL

95,200

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Lunch

CONFIDENTLAL

ba placed in Castro's food or drink, it would be a much more

effective operation.

Sam indicated that he had a prospective

nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had

been receiving kickback payments irom the gambling interests,

who still had access to Castro and was' in a financial bind.

10.

Cornelius Roosevelt. Chist, ISD.

was consulted and

assigned

I develop a pill that had the

elements of rapid solubility, high lethal content, and little or

no traceability. Six of these items were produced and, after

being checked out for their elfectiveress by Dr. Edward M.

Gunn, three pills were ultimately turned over to Sam for the

mission. Neither TSD nor Di. Guan wis briafed on the ultimata

use of the pills.

11. Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After several weeks

of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out

of the assignment.

He suggested another candidate who made

several attempts without success.

12. Joe then indicated that DI. Antony Verona, one of tice

principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, had become dis-

affected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and

was willing to handle the mission through his on resources.

13. DI. Varond was approached and jumped at the oppor-

tunity of getting involved in an independent operation. He was

told that the private interests backing the project did not want

the U. S. Government and, particularly the CLA, to know of thei

Involvement. (So far as thia Clice knows, he has never divulgec

his participation in the project to the Agency.)

14. He asked, as a prereguisite to the deal, that he be given

$10, 000 for organizational expenses and requested $1, 000 worth

of communications eguipment.

15. Dr. Verona's potential was never fully exploited, as

the project was canceled shortly after the Say of Pigs episode.

Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn, and the pille

wers retrieved.

CLASSIFIED BY 083344 0940222

EXEMPT FROY CLATTEL DECLASSIFICATION

3

SCHEDULE C.

"IIPTION CATECORY:

§ 5811, 0

: (a) (circls one or more)

CCONFIDENTIAL

sainqueded to confidental

(unless impossibie, insert dale or event)

L TO CH

SERRET

---

## Page 4

GEORET

CONFIDENTIAL

16. Of sigulficant interest was an incident which involved

a request levied by Sam upon Maheuland now shapes up as a

potential Пlaр.Y

At the height of the project negotiations, Sam

expressed concern about his girlfriend, Phyllis

MoGuire-who-he-learnad.was-getting much atter-

tion Trom Dan Rowan-while both were booked at a

Las veyas nightclub. (Rowan oat that time a rela-

tivelyunknown.comediang1s.now arpartier in Rowan

and Martin, the summer replacement for tha Dean

Martin coast-t@-coagt TV.show.) Sam asked Maheu

to put a bug in Rowaa's room to determina toe ex-

tent of his intimacy with MIty McGuire. Maheu

tott Sars ho didn't have the facilities, whereupon

Sam threatened to leare Miamito go to Vegas and

tako care of the matter himself: In order to pre-

vent this, Maheu contacted Edward Dubois, a

Florida investigator, and asked him to handle the

job.]

Iristead of installtag a bug in the room, the

techniciaz placad a tap on the phone, "bick ob-

viously did not sarve Sam's purpose.

:! The techni-

cian Involved in the assigament was discovered in

the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriff's

office for questioning.

After ho failed to reach

Duboia by telepbone, the called Maheu at-the -or-

Kenilworth Hotel, Miami, and informed him that

he had been detained by the police.

This call was

made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-

nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along

with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the

Director of Security briefed the Attorcey General,

Robert Kennedy, on the circumstances leading up

to Maheu's involvement in the wiretay. At our ra-

quest, prosecution was dropped.

AS BY 0S3384 17YAYX

EXCAPT FIG CECIL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEGUI.E OF

§ 56114.0

da: " & TION CATEGORY:

: i.l (circle one or more)

AUTUM DO-GLY DECLASSIFIED ON

can probed te contential

(amlesa impossibie, insert date or event)

1

EYES ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

econ

LiLD ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

16. Of significant interest was an incident which involved

a request levied by Sam upon Maheul and now shapes up as a

potential flap.]

At the height of the project negotiations, Sam

expressed concern

Sam asked Mahau

to put a bug in

•room to determino the es.-

tent offi

→ Vahei

Tote Barho dart have the facilities ybageapon-

Sam threatened to loaze Miami to go to Vegas and

take-care of the matter himself. order to pre-

vent this. Mahau contacted-Edwärd Dubois, a

Florida inveatigator, and asked him-to handle tha

10b. J

Iistaad of inatatting a bug in the poom. tha

techniciar placad a tap on the phona, waich ob-

viously did not gerse Sam's purpose.

:! T'he tochni-

cian involved in the assigamant was discovered in

tha process, arrested, and taken to the Sherlif'&

office for questioning.

Aften ho saitecto reuch

Drebola bytelephone, the called Maheulat-the

Kenilworth Hotel, Miami, and informed him that

• he had been detained by the police. This call was

made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-

nounced its intention to prosacute Maheu along

"with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the

Director of Security briefed the Attornay General,

Robert Kennedy, on the circumstantes leadiag up

to Maheu's Involvement in the wiretap. At our re-

quest, prosecution was dropped.

4

EXFAPT FEN DIFIL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE 0:

-B'IS TION CATECORY:

§ 5860.1

O

= (.) (circle one or more)

ACT.

MiY GECLASSIFIED ON

(unlesa impossibie, insert dato or event)

CONFIDENTIAL

SENSE

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

Two articles appeared in the Chicago press,

one on 16 August 1963, and ons on 20 August 1963,

that suggested Sam was working with the Agency.

The first article appeared in the Chicazo Sun-Times

written by stalf writer, Sandy Smith, 'and had as lis

headline: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.

It relates that tha Agency reportedly was in touch

with Samn in 1959 and requested that he assist them

in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. It also men-

tioned the Las Vegas wiretap, which the article

claimed was handled by a "Florida invastigative

organisation. " It further went on to state that,

upon inquiry of this organization, they stated the

tap was placed at the request of the Central Intelli-

genca Agency. The other article appeared in the

Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony

Weitrel, and commented that during March 1962,

Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadowing

him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me

alone? I'm ona of youl" Sam allegedly stated that,

after Castro's riss in Cuba, 3 CIA operative con-

tacted him and wanted to know if Sam could do any-

thing for the Government on the turbulent little island.

Sim said he had friends on both sides, but no clout.

That was it.

17. Roselli was

introduced to James P. O'Connell, of this

Office, who wis identified to him as an employea of Robert A.

Mahau, Agsociates.

Over the several months of close contact be

tween these two individuals, Roselli began to speculate as to

O'Connell's trus employer and, at one point, stated that he was

convinced he was employed by the ClA, and that the project was

sponsored by the Agency. He hastened to state that he was not

forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of this and.

further, he would sot mention this to anyone else, including Sam.

Sam was never introduced to any Agency personnel and, while CLA

was never mentioned to him, it is Maheu's belief he eventually sus-

pacted the Agency was the power behind the operation.

CLASSIFLED BY 063344 1701A126

EXEMPT FRO% C'O-CAL CECLASSIFICATION

SCHFOULE OF E. 1

EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

5

§ 5501).

• •¿ (circle one or mera)

AUTUMNiiY EECLASSIFIED ON

CONFIDENTIAL

desungrated to conf dental?

23 Dit

(samless irgersials, insert dale or erent)

SECRET

---

## Page 7

ITS IT CONFIDENTIAL

18. In ivay 1962, because of Mi. O'Connell's assignment

to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli orer to

Mr. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force W.

Harvey was introduced as William Walker. It is not known whether

Roselli ever became aware of Harvey's true name.

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

CLASSIFIED BY 0633441

EXEMPT FROM C: TiL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. 0 !! ::, EXEMPTION CATEGORY

§ 5a(1). 0

(a) (circle one os more)

AUTOMATICILLY DECLASSIFIED ON

dounqnaled to con Erdental

(aalers impossible, insert dale or ereat)

6

EXES 2227

CONFIDENTIAL

---

