# 104-10052-10279

## Page 1

1104-10052-10279)

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

U

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

John H, shitten

c/sa/3

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

EXTENSION

5613

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

299

C/CI

2.

NO.

DATE

18 Dee. 1963. Far pul

COMMENTS (Numbor

roch comment lo show fram whor

to whom.

Draw a line ocross column after each comment.)

attacised for your in?aation,

cement, and corruction is the

oyal, mourasted version of

the ropeet on CHILOOR corsing

OSRAID'S Stay In Beadeo med 12-

claring uumarias of the telegions

Intarceytale

thls my be usel to

the zest of the material and to tig

people more ins the final repert

In viting this us, I have saio.

certain commento and 1adnlgad 1n a

contain enount e andysis, because

tha naisd facta ascued to call Ion

Ito These thougata are zy osa.

Feel Fred to snie Jou ons analysis.

¡ you bare any corrections to insa.

planse vito then on this drait and

20ta 14 t010. INIll 20129 1294

diast to yea 1} y0u vaat 12.

une caly and una bot mant te to

used stated the Agency

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

ID USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SZORET

We Discover Loe OSWALD In Mexico City

CIA did produce one very significant piece of information on Lee

OSWALD before he shot Iresident Kennedy. On 1 Detoder 1963, our Mexico

City Station Intercepted a telephone call Lee OSHALO made ITOS sOmeplace

1n Mexico City to tbe soviet Imbasay there, using his ta zanes Speaking

broken Russian and using bis true base, CawilD was talking to the Babassy

Guard, OBYEDKOY, WaD often aneers the phone. DElAID said be had visited

the Enbassy the urevious Saturday (28 Septenber 1963) sad spoles to a

consul waose rame he had forgotten, and who had promised to send a tele-

gran for him to hashinston. Ee vasted to knos it there were "anythin

The suard said 11 the consul was dark it was (Telerly Vladstrovich)

KOSTIKOY The guard checked with soreone else and said that the bessage

had some out but no anever had been received.

He then hung up.

This plece of Information zaa produced tron a talephone top

It

---

## Page 3

14-00000

It highly secrot and not icown to

which are transcribed and revieved by our

mall staff in Hexico City. By 9 October, the OSHAuD telephone comerya-

¿ion of 1 October had been transcribed and a suntary of it cabled to

Washingion. The pane Lee OSHALD weant nothing special to our bedeo

City Station, but in their report they did judge bir to be an Anerican

male.

Tos cabled report was recolved in Hashington on 9 October and checked

In our 11zoo, there it was imediately coted tant the lee OSWALD pboning

the Sovlet Inoassy in Mexico Clty was probably the Lee OHAID wao bad

defected to the Soviet Union In 1959 ani retured to the USA In 1962.

10 October 1953, the day after the report from derico CIty, CIA Headquarters

sent out a cabled report about lee OSlAID's phone call to the sovlot

Imbassys the report went to the PAI, the Departzent of State (because

OSKALD VAS A US citizen), and to tha lavy Desartsent (because be wes &

forer Varine.) The cabled report to these agencies highlighted the

SEGRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

11:11h00d that the Lee OSWALD mentioces vas probably too former defectos.

A copy of this same cable was delivered by hard to the Imitation an

Naturalizatdon serrice, with which te have no cable lini. The sane dey

& long cable vent out to Hartoo City Infornias our Station oi the baci

grOUnd cE defector Lee OSHALD aNd aDLInS IOT MOre InformatiOn Cur SEation

ves Instructed to pass 1tu Infamation on the phone call to the Mexico

City offizes at the FBI, the Inbassy, the Maval Abtache, and the Imagna-

tIon are Fatzalizatlos Servica. Thia was done.

In 1t3 021z1oal Jezart Of 9 October, larico CIty heù said it bad a

photograsà of an apparent Anericen sale leaving the Soviet Embassy on

2. Cetobes 1963, the day OSHALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

In sextes City provides us with secretly talen photograpas of many but sot

all vialtors to the sovlot subassy there, taven with telephoto lenses.

Accoxinsty, so called the lary Dezartent on 2 October 1563 Rutay foi

= protosraph of lea OVALD Iron his lariDo Corpa days so we could coupert

photos. He had not received this photograph by 2 Rovester 1953, but In

any evert, It turned out that the ran photostaphed outside the sorlet

3

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGIE I

Tabasay Has not CENALD aNyray. As chance would have it, FODe Of Our

several photo obsezation joints in Mexico City had ever taken en Idenil-

Slable picture of les OSHALD.

Our Mexico City Station very often produces intormatios 11ke this

on US citizens contacting Soviet bloc embasales in lexico City Frequently

the intoration ve set is extremely incrininating, and on ase or tuo

occasions ve have even been ablo to approben and raturn to toe Ush

American military personnel who are attempting to defect, In 1l] such

cases, our Feudguartars desk requeste and obtains the special peruission of

the Deputy Director for Plans to pass the deraitory Inionation on a US

citizen to other Loverment agercles. Dereratory Intoration on Avericens

18 not treated routinolys in each case tha Da° of his Assietant persorally

scrutirlse the Inforation, nace sure it 1s credlble, and zecide whether and

to when 1t will bo passed. Only 1n absolute emergencies is the lexico City

Station authorized to pass such irlomation atrectly to the FBI offlee In

the U.J. Embassy-

At this writing (13 Decamber 1963) ve do not inow whet action the fal

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

and other agencies my have taken based on our report. le sumise that the

IDI may have mue local checks throush Mexican authoritias to see It

Ice OSALD was actually in Hardoo City on 1 October. Indeed, Later In

vestication has confird all the detallo of his trif, where he stayed,

and wat he did. To avold crossing lines with the lD D1r Berica Station

undertook no local investliation of 1ti dua. As ve Lou know, OSHAID 308t

rexico on 3 October and was no longer there when our report has put out..

• Since this

took

place.

22 Hoverber 1963

When ward of the shooting

of Fresident Kennady resched the offices

o1 our operating alviaions and stafts on the afternoon of Irlany 22 Mover.

tar 1963, translotor radioa vere turned on everyibere to follow the

trazedy. Ween the name of lee OShAID tas beard, the effect was electric.

A ghone nessage fron the fal case at about the sane tige, saring OSWALI

STONET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

2724000

as the possible assassin and assing for traces.

The Dossays Yaa passed

on at once by the Chief CI, la. Angletos, to 1r. Blich O'leal of his

Special Investi ations Unit. Mrs. letty Ezeter of this Unit Imerlataly

rocognised the naze of Lee (SWALD and vent for his file. At the sane

time, kas. Bustos of the Madeo Dest, ino han written our flast feport on

OSWALD on 10 October recognized the nano fron jullo reports and went

alter the same 11le. Ir. Feichharit, Herded Desl Chiel, who waa houn on

leare, heard the sews and phoned in a reninder that is had sonething on

OSWALD. While ve tore preparing a cable to lerico City asking then for

mory Inforation on OSTALD, Lesleo City itsel? heard OSWAlD's come on the

foice of America bronicuat and cabled to us a rentries of the inforcation

the Station bad sert in on hin.

Por the next week, a dozen people la the Agency vera continuously

DAqjed in handlina Isconiny pesenses on the case, writing reports to ba

cabled out, tracins the naves sentiored, and researching illes. Within a

weels, 27 cabled reports had sune out to tha Walte louse, the State Depart-

nant, and the fEI. lazy cables of suidance and isquiry had boen sent to

SESHET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

our overseas stations, and many piecos of inforation on OSKALD and bis

wife had been received back. The Mexico City Station researched Its

telephone taps very thoroughly and cane up with saveral nore conversations

probably involving O34ALD, but not actually bentloning this sane; these

connocted bin also to the Cusan Consulate In Mexico Clty Several Medicans

were arrested and questioned about his activities, giving a good picture

of what ha was really uy to. lany conferences were held with the FBI

Iaison Dificer tho asted ua for certain actions and passed us Inforzation

fIve the Fil InvestIzation, la ibe ninta sido, a host of fabricators,

sOns anOnnous, borberded overseas crbassies vith spuzous tips on the case,

nost of which ve investluated. All of these are soon discredited, but they

are still coring In.

Turins this phase a our wors, te served prisarily in support of the

I'st, which was entrusted by the President with the enfor responsibility for

the Investlestion. The fat was too busy to supply as with such of its

own Inioration, but answers were elven to specific questions ve posed to

essist our investication. The Departuent of Stata ald photograph Its entir

SAURS

---

## Page 9

14-00000

file on OSYAID and pass they to us, and the Ill gave us a copy of tie

Soviet Consular IIla on OSkALD which lal been publicly siren by the Soviet

Axbassador to the Secrotary of State. On Ildsy 6 Docenber 1963, Depaty

Attorney Ganeral Katzerbach Inviied us to zerley the ElI's conprebensive

report on the case to mato sure ou' sources vere not jeopardized and that

o1 Information was comectly quoted. le found the report higbly

Interesting aul no threat to our secarity, as lOng as 1t vas read 041J

by tha authorizei Investigatire bodles.

After the firsi fey daJs, the CIA Investization of the case vas

haniled at Ecadquarters by a mall stair usually charges with investication

and analyals of the vost inportant security cases, and by a lea officera

and analysts of our festers Fendsphere D171a100.

Deporta Exon Hexico.

As soon as our faxico CIty Station realizet that tee OSHALD was the

prime suspect, 1t loyan re-sorening all the uritten telephone transcripta

In its Illes corering the Sorlet Imbassy for the pertineit perlod. The

actual tapes were also variered, but sany of then had been erased after the

---

## Page 10

14-00000

noral two weeks wait. Several calls bellered

to InvOlTe OSWALD were

discorered and toeir contents cabled to Haubinston, whare they were

dissentinated to the White House, the State Depertent, the Feisral

Bureal of Inveatigation.

OSAID's rane was not actually sentioned 1n thesa additional callas

but sidlarity of speech anù various plats pointa of contont link them

to him. These calls ara sumarized below in chronolasical arter.

They cover the perlod fron 27 Septenber 1953 to 3 October 1963, the whole

STAY Of OSHALD's TIeld to Mexico Clty as later learned fron travel records.

31 september - A man phones the soviet Military Attache and

says he neede a visa to so to odessa. Man answerina says he sheila coll

15-60-55 and sai for the Consul. Caller asts for the address, and 1t i0

siven to als. (there 15 no special reason for linking this call to OSHALD.)

37 optember, 4:05 24 - The Criban Conulate proved the sortet

Consulate. Silvla Duran, Mexican national clert of the Cubes Consulato

called to a soviet official, rayiny that a sale Averican citizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asking for a transit visa to pass through cuba on hia may

---

## Page 11

14-00000

to the Sorlet Union. She wants to know to ubon he tallood in the soviet

Consulate and who told hin he would lave no problen about 1t. II & soviet

visa 1s essured, the Cuban Conaulate can sant him a iranalt visa and

simply notify Cuben Immigration autborities. The Soylet First asts ber

to wait, and then she has to explain the uhole thing over ajala to anoiber

soviet offictal, who takes ber telepione number and proalues to call her

back. Silvis DURAN concludes this call by telling the soviet she bezsele

bas bored ard gives her sew adresa for the soviet Inbassy bulletis.. Be

asks her to phone (Sergey Eenenorich) KUKBARRIO (Second Secretary who puts

out the Ballotia) to give bia the new sidresa asd ha aska tho the Caban

'Cultural Attache is. Silvla DUAN gives the Attache's rare as Teresa

PRosiza and adds ber telephore number.

37 Sentember, 4:25 PM - A Soriot official calls SIlra DUBAI

bacis end tells her that the "Aserica" hal been to see the sortet'a ena.

chom then a letter fon the Soviet Consulate In Fasbinston Indlcating tiat

he bad been salting fox vinas for binsell and its wire to so to the sortat

Union for a l00j time, but that so ansver had cone iron lashington, addina

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

that the walt was senetimes four or five months.

The "American" haR

shown the Soviets a letter showing ho vas a member of an organization in

favor

of Cuba and had claised tont the Cabans could not save bis a vlaa

vithout a Fugalan Via. SilVia DURA rejoing that they have the same

problen; the "American" 1a still at the Comulate; they cannot alre him a

transli visa unleas he is asoured of & soviet visa, even thousa he just

wants to so to Caba to lait there for b1s sorios visa to he brarted. le

does nor knit anyone in Cabe, They end the convertien on this note.

SIIVIS DURAN says that b'se vill note this on his "cars," and the Soviet

conclades by saying, "Besides be 1u not known." le arcuses binsel?' for the

Inconvendence be has caused aad silvia DURAY says 1t 1s all slishto

28 September - Silvia DURAH calls the Sordet Iabasay fron ice

Caban Conaulato, She says thet she kas the American with her seatn. The

Soviet answering aste her to walt. then inother Sorled takes un the phones

Silvia puts the American on. The Averican tries to talle Fussiar to the

Sortet who ensters in Engliob. The Aerican as him to spea's fussian. The

Anerican says that he hai been in the forlet Babassy and spoken with the

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEGRET.

Consul, and that they had taxen his cudress.

The Soviet roblles tbat be

knows that. The American then says, sorrhat enigratically: "I did sot

know It then, I went to the Cuban Insesay to ask them for sy adirosa

because they have it." The Sovlet lovites hila to ston by agala and give

then the addresa, bol the American agrees to do so, (In this conversation,

the Anerican was speakins haraly recognizable fusaian.)

As far as our recoris spoil, OSWALD ald not phone the Soviet or Caban

Sabasales ajata until Juenday 1 October 1553. The Intervening days vero a

Sunday and a Monday. Toe contento of his later calls seen to sbon. he

11a not contect the Sovlets on those days.

1 October, 10:31 AM - A nan calls the Soriet lalitury Attache 1a

broken Russian ani says he hal been at tboir place the previous saturday

(23 septenter) asd talked to their Consul, They had said they woula send

a telegras to lazadnaton, and ho vanted to kuon ti there vere aaythin zien.

The Sovieta ask bin to call another phone number and Elves bis 15-60-55, say-

Ing to ask for a Consule

1 Cetober 10:45 An - (This is the phons call in vich OStAl

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SNORET

used bio true nana and which ma therefore cabled to lashinston on 9

Octocer 1963) Les OSWALD called the fovlet Imbassy and amounced bis

ons reco, saying he had visited then the previous saturday and spoken

With a Consal, They had said they would serd a telegra to laabingtos,

and he wanted to know if there vere anything new. Be did not remember

the naze of the Consul,. The Soviet, Who was inbasay thars OBTIaOY

replied: "XO3IK0T; he 1a dark." OSAID replied: "Yes, uy name 15

OSKALD." The soviet escused hiasel? for a ndauta and then sala they

hadn't received anything got. OSHAID asked 1i they hadn't done anythina

and the card replied they had sent a roguest but that nothing ban beer

recoived 2s yet." ONWAID started to say: "Ace what...", but too sortot

hung up.

3 Cotober 1963 - A pra speditas broken Spanisi at flrst and thea

Engllah pioned the loviet Mllltagy Attross and asted about a visa. The

Attache'a office referred his to the consulate, siving the her 15-50-55.

The caller wrote it dovi. The attache official suraiged off anotkes

SECTER:

13

---

## Page 15

14-00000

question about whether the caller could set a visa, ard the conversation

ended. (There 15 no special reason

to tie this in with SWALD, The 15 now

krom to have ro-entered the ll at laredo the sure day.)

Since the

the information on le OSHALl also case to the attention of

Prosident LOPEZ, Mateos after 22 Hovenber. Tue rext day, 23 November, be.

called 1t to tbe attention oi our Chier of station, tho vas already

vorting feveriohly on the case. Sinilarly, the liexicans noticed the

involverent ol Cuben Consular employee Silvia DURAl, a dexican national.

0uz Station suggested that sha be arrested aod Interrogatod about OSHALD.

The Mextenn authoritles had the same idea and she and ber bustana vers

arrested on 23 Hovesber 1963, In the miest of a party at their bone.

the suests vero soon released but silvia and her hussara vere quantioned

and released on 25 liovember 1963.

311v1a'3 husband, Horacio DURAY Havarro, an industrial desiger,

said under police Interzonton that when OSWALD was raved as the

83528310

141

---

## Page 16

14-00000

of President Kennedy, his vife bai recognized the rame sai recalled she

bad valied on OSHAID then he case to apply for a Cuban tranait visa;

be semembened sue had sals she dealt with the Soviet Consulata us well.

to Iind out wootber he had a soviet viss. Foracio DUAN recalled his wife

had eula OShALD becana angry sad aco had to call out the Cabra Conaui,

EaSEDiO AZCUs, to quiet bin.

silvIa DUrAl told the sare story. She vas a lastiut sympathizer witt

Baba and had varked fos the Meatcan-Cuban Institute of Cultural Elations.

she rocalled OShAiD well, described his accurataly, ralated how ha had

wanted a bican visa but could not get one without tha assurance of à sorlot

visa, end zenencered his tiff with the Consul. She almitted she had phoned

the SoTtet Babusay about hit

'Te so total al the statements of Silvia DURAil and bor hustand was.

to confirm that OSAID mas in kaleo to set a Cubes visa so he could walt

In Cuba for bis Soviet vlo, Ino Soviet Consular 111a passed to the State

Depararent in Washington by the Soriet Babesay confires a long exchanze

tetween first, ltrs. Harina OSHAID, and later ber bustard, and the sordet

---

## Page 17

14-00000

Consulate in Washington sbout thair raqueats for pernission to return to .

the Loviet Union. OSWALD wes still tritlns to the Soviets in Vashiaston

about this as late as 9 Lovencer 1963.

SIlVis DURAN vas arrestad Again On 27 Hoveaber and beld 2at11 29

Hovenber. She told ensenttally the see story over agniz.

Well placed sources within the Cuban Inbassy In bedco City stated

that ten Silva DUPAY vas releused iron pollos arrest the Ilrot time on

25 Moresber; abo was quite pleased with hersell.

She told ber colleagues

the saze story set out above, sainy only that the Maxion polico had

¿breatened to extradite har to the Indted States to confront Lee Farray

OSHALD-

The reaction withls the Cuban Inbasay to the neus o? Prestlant

Kennedy's deata was restre. To date, there is soj erodible Inporation in

CIA files thich would appear to lint lee OSwALD with the Cuban zoverend

or the Cuban Intelligence serriga.

The ubole quencion of whether Les OSWALD had any secret comection

with the Spriets or Cubans in lexico canzot jot be ansiered, but cortale

parts aí the evidence indicate to the contrary. Silvia DURI anà the

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Soviet Consular africials spota ol bia as a mus vite "no Irlonia in Cuba"

on the one land, and as a man not "nova" in the Soviet Dabausy, on tha

othere The very openness of his visits and the phoue calls speal against any

secret role. fis trip to lerico vas not Itsele a secrat notz be travaled

under his real nane or a close variant of 1t, lived openly la serlean

hotels, and correaponied with the Borlets through the open nails abort

It when he got back to the US. lia trip to jesdoo sas apparently made

recessary berause 1t vas the searest Cuban diplonatic Installation wber

he conld apply for a visa.

A perplexing aspect of OSHALD's trafficiang wità the cubans and

Sovlots In lexico City 1s his assertion In his call of 23 Sapienber that he

ald not in his address then he vas at the Spriet Consulata and camo to

the cuban Consulato becsuse they bad it. It 1a hard to esplata just vat

he neart, but it should be renenbered that de vas talking in passian, =

languaço he could not nanajo, as that vhen ine cave to Mesico he ras in the

process ai moving from New Orleans to Texas. He may not have madorized

his new address in Tessa, whatever it was, and may not have been ablo to

SESHET.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

2890027

Jay hanüs on 1t when ha was in the Soviet Consulate they dry Ferraga

ho has carlar aiven the address to S1lr13 DURAN and wanted to lock 1t

up on ber card.

A particularly sinster aspect of OSYALD's dealings with the Boriatu

1n Mexico (1iy arises fron the lilthood that be set vith sortet Consul

Valerly Nadinirorich KOSTIKO%. In his 1 October phone call to the

Soriat Babesny, the guard Onenoy suggasts that the Consul CouLD had

talLod tO LUS KOSTISOY 11 he tas dart. OSWALD seens to agree vita tats,

but tha identification la very casual. In him 9 November lotter to the

Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD gives the name ai the nan he deult

with as "K09TIn," but there ls no person of that exact nase in the soviet

Embassy in Mexico CIty, I03T1XOT Is accredital as e Consula- Attacho and

does actually do a lot al consular vors, but ha 1s ballaves to ba a

Borlet KGB afficer, and it 18 ballaved that he works for Departient 13 of

the KC3, the Department charsed with sabotage and assassinations. Tea

suspicion thet KOSTKOY 10 a KGB offices aroBe fron his work kabits, aud

his association with other KCB officers. It was bardened when It vas

1=.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

Lound toat ha handled a soviet agent uno vas trained to do sabotage

work and that he turred this agent over to another K03 officer who 13

definitely knows to waris for the 13th Departent. It 1s senerally true

12 KGS vor's that sabotajo asents are haniled only by I Department

officers.

Fabassy gurd Ivna Iranovich OBEDKOT 1B hinself bellered to ke s

KOB Ian fron previous assigments as a bodyguard and sunillant. But

unless sose direct evidence of Soviet complicity is Alscorered, It 11

most Iikely that OSWALD's dealing with KuB men OBYSDDY and KCSTIKOY 2a

nothing more than a sria coincidence, a colncidence due in part to the

Soret habit of placing intelligence wen 1a the Enbassies in p0s1t1cng

where they receive a large partion of the visitors and phone calls. All

of the fira consular officers in the soviet Babassy are known or suspected.

Intelligence officers. Certainly it OSWALD bad been a soviet agent 1a

trainteg for an assasstration asslument or even for sabotage vork, the

soriots would have etopped him fron milng open visits and phone calls to

the fowlet Embassy ln Vexico after he trlad it a couple of times. Our

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SEEN 7

expertance in Mexico, studying the Soviet Intelligence service at close

range, indicates that they

do make sone mistares and are soreiines insecure

In their nethoda, but toat they do not persist in such glaring errons.

sose insight on the Cuban attitudo torard the arrest of Silvia DURAN

and the Involvement of the Cuban Consulate In the OSHALD case can be

salned Iron two intercapted phone calls nado between Cubaa Fresident

DavAldo DORIICOS and Caban AMbasaBdo to Mexico Joaquin HERMAnUEL Arras 0a

26 cHorember 1963, the day after S1lvlz DURAi was released from her first

arrest. At 09:40 AN that nornirg, Fresident DORTICOS phoned the Ambassador

Iren Havana and asked hin several questions about a report which tha

Rabassador had sent in on the arrest of Silvia DURAN and the Lee OOHALD

case. To whole conversation is coalstent with the theory that OsHALD

nerely wanted a visa. The Ambassador did nention the altercation nica

OSWALD bad with Consull AZCUS, and he ways that l'exican golice bruiser

SIlVIa DURAX's ama a LIttle shaldna ber to improse her vità tho importance

of their questions. They had asked ber 1l she had been intimato ulth

OSWALD end she had dented 1t. President DORTICOS twice asked Ambassedor

---

## Page 22

14-00000

IRRANEZ wether the Yodcan police had asked Silvia DURAN questiona

about "money," and the president apparently wanted to know whether the

Mexicans thought the Cubans had paid OSHAID noney. IRFAIDE? insisted

the Mexicana had not Offered SIlVia DURAN DOnAY, and DORRICOS BaYe

up trying to put acrosa his polat.. President DORTICOS Instructed

HERAlDEa to kees on questioning Silvia DaRli and to phose him baci.

At 7:39 PM that evening Anbassador ISRANDEZ did call Presidont

DORIICES bae's, saying ha bad questioned "that person" agala and abe has

nothing Dey to add. Fresidant DORTICOS returng to the issaa

of sheteer

"they has threatened her so that she bould male a statement that the

Consulate hon given soney to the manti"that Anerican." But Ambassalor

FEROADEZ pUrEIStS In EloUserstandins DORMICOS, ansHes 12 the nogative,

and sava: "Absolutaly rothlas vas given to hor." DORIICOS seema to give

us and the conversation dies out after a lew nore gereral remariss.

We do not know for sure what nue President DORTICOS press for Intera-

tou about Cuban vocey passed to OSWALD, but Muors vere current in Metico

and even, to understand, in the Usa, that OSWALD had returned iron texico

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SEGRET

Clty with about $5,000. Perhapa DORMICOS as trying to learn wether

the Mexican police believed that the Cubans had Iinanced CHAL). In any

event, the Cuban Coverent seat the haxicans a stilt note of protest

over the arrest and detention of Silvla Durai, but the lexicans

rejectad the note.

SEGRET

---

