# 104-10219-10072

## Page 1

104-10219-10072

SECRET

# *

EX - 786

5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

'SUBJECT: "'American Defectors to the USSR"

1 The attached material was part of a soft file entitled

"American Defectors to the USSR", which was act up by SR/6

(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR coinpozente

until ca, 1963. The compilations vere derived from a variety

of sourcel, and contain both clasolfied and overt data,

2. In the fall of 1966, the flles were turned over to Cl

In nost instances, basic information was then abstracted

for the US Defector Machine Program

In all instances in which

the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation céfore,

It has been incorporated into the approprinte 201 file, along with

a copy of this memorandum.

3. It is suggested diai any dissemination of this data chould

be coordinated with 5B Division and with CI. Staff (CI/MRO), in

view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that

disseminations have already beca made through the US Defector

Machine Program.

Orig - CI/MRO

1 - RID/FI

1 - SB/RMO

1 - CUR&A/

1 - CI/R&A/chrono

16/7/62

SECRET

---

## Page 2

Input to Us nicoctor

Machino 1-5+22

Ace Kay Grades 19S4

SECRET

A

#

27 Hay 1931, Colunbus,

27718. 1a

Kathenatician; cryptolo ist at ish. Resided Ellensburg, lash..

before noving fer heade

Infornation 1s from Unaverican Activities C'ttee report, 13.8.62, except as noted

1951-55• Enlisted eryptolorist in US liavy.

1955-56. Iray clvilian cryptologist in Jagan, upon discharge fros Navy tour.

1956-57.

Returned to finish school at University of Wash, Seattig.

8 March 155?. Interviewed by WA recruiter:

8 July 1957. Beported for duty at liSh, "ort leade, Nd., as GS-? mathe

maticIan.

recomerintion of an lish super-

visor who had known him ard Mitchell in the

Nrec on basis of academie recoro,.t, and recruiter's recommendation.

Soon after.

National agency check; polyeraph at lêde

liSA security eval-

vator found nothin: dororatory, although backerrund investiration had revealed

such comments as the follovine: Insufferable ejotist... efféninato ... not

wholly nomal .. rather irresoonsible ... nit be swajed by flattery .

formor supervisors in iry and "lary were almost unanimous in not wantim hin

to work for then arnin, but with only ond excestion they sai no reason my

Is couldn't hare access to clansified information

say nothing risky in this personality, and the results of the investigation

wer: not ulven to the liSA personnel office or to any other office concerned

with his hirin.

2h August 195% Interia clearance cranted.

28 fugust 1857. liSA requested liary run full flold investigation.

I Septemter 1957. He took the Security Inoctrination Cath and was Diven

badge frantire him access up through Top Secret.

22 Spril 1955. ISA received Mary!s Investigation report.

12 ligy 195%. Full clearance granted.

in rath.

2959. 1e tre de is associate it colo a to ete hero,

but because last had taht not told than their in dartin was loim to be in

Illinois for a mile, rsi did not realize it vas

same man and did not resort

into to NSA. He flew back to Wesh in the Spring of 59

per viw. were 18.1.60, so that he

OVER O

Prior Sestesber 1959. This would have been shen they decided to defect,

accordinf to treir statement at the loscow press conference at which they were

surfaced. Hovever, this statement nay conflict with an ASTiclE report that

they were under sob development for sone time before defection and defected

because cone endir comer that would hare led to their detection. lay

have

jitien inta conts.;

December 1959.

Went to Cuba with. Mitchell, without ISA permission and

against its cirectives.

Undated information in

EXC report, doubtless pertain

Ing to this perioi if not before, said he was a masochist and an agnostic; out

spoken against l's and for Su, which latter knom to several dozen ISA emplovees

but not to iSt security office.

SECRET

201-282338

---

## Page 3

@aud Wilchell cood go sall on Pep, legie Hanges (ein, Dies) is del ser

"'e agrest danger:"

" Heyesitererican; richt sut asi callers, arres; tirie:

They.intified seloes is CIA. They were of cow se committing a souria

Greein; but rich never breed, iss Feel or ate.

-ht.!: 1140911

."""

to a with eit

ric.

Mader so nor at once

N 19-4

As 108032.2071

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Juna 1960. Received li tron LIlinois.

2b Голь 1960.

left suppesedly on to weake leave, thay

actually took oft fos Mexico, Dube, and the UssRe Sli wait »

everdne sten she and hor tour companions were at dinner they notleed two

obviously Anarion son at the next table, one of then carryire on an

animated corersation In jussian with a troup of Soriets accompanying

then. The tour leador understood Russian and was shooked to hour tha Anerlem

tolling the Sovieta that Conditions are better in the su than in US, Soriets

have more troodom than foericans, oto, inon the tour group later loft tho

B1oo via Caschoslovakla (In a few wooks) and sar their firat lastori nova

paper, they road of the Maid l defoction and were anared to recocrize thes

as the two men in lalta. They had not seened to be under

moriot escort

thore

whoever could the rapt group of "oriat listeners have been???

and

when seen lator in the evening in the hotel, they seemed to be by thor

selves.

Thay irnored the US tourlato, who also aroldod them because of

the optaode in the dinine roon. Inoldentally, Khrushoher was at the time

at his desha nearby.

5 Aupust 2960. T7. Defense Departunt announsed that they were saBane,

had been traced to lexieo and Cuba, and were probably behind the artain

• curface then.

6 september e luil detatls and text of atatemente in Key Orady"

The soviets hold a full-dress press conferenda to

NEA 1120. Highlighter broke with US bocause of disillusloment over US

spying on allies, deliberately violating borders with U-2, RB-27, C-130,

olin, stes on. datallo on liSA and cedes ... decided over a year ago to

dafeet •• datooted boomso 1) US Cort untes lalse and docoptiva stato-

monto, penetratos fibes friendly embasains, ete., 2) "In the su our main

values and Intrusta appear to be sharod by a greates mumber of peopla"

and ve will henae be better accepted soesally, and better able carry out

profesalon, and 3) Seviet vomen's talenta are nore encouraged and thay are

more attractive as antes. N nowspapar assount said they trinned at ench

ther when this part was road... tir of 7 Sept 60 said "It was only whe

they: spoke ef thair problens of personal adjustment that thay seened 100

care of themelroo", and

they sailed at each other when Mitchell read

personal roaris fros their partire statemnt. "Besides the disilluslonent

and consern which we have voiced over certain US policies other factora

have atrongly notivated un to go to the SU."... Sor Govt has offered thes

choice of living area, opportunity of contimuire education, and assistanse

In finding unthomaties Jobs at sintlar salary to what they got In US ...

they recently soured SU.

As to how nuch dange they did by defecting, and how much they

benefited the Soriets, estinatos range fron ons extrene to the other via

all in botra pointe. Rop.Mocormask and others said that they could give

my no much about ISA nathods and machines and eto. that the entire aysten

at codes and elint nordtaring and code breakers and eto. would have to be

revampedo The official Defense Department accourt,

of course, indiested

that they were tust fander code-breakers and couldn't give away anythin

alfesting the security of tha country.

AEDAZZLE 's remarks are alrost

warthless beemse not planed down, he had boird they brought som usend

SECRET

---

## Page 5

¡SEC.

=3-

Interial with

" them "but not so important and not in very mush".

==e.1100d.

more for politioal e dvantage

jade propaganda?

•= they didn't have vide

possibilities ..

"But of cource they did a lot of danaze ... but not sa

much •.o not an onornous saounto?. Derjabin sald that thoy apparently didn't

have mush important Information, aince they were surfaced so soon, but thie

was In a novapaper report and night not have been his real opiniong his

observatiorsiin du sano newspaper artiole(seo Fey Grady's ISA filo), Sove

1111 explolt. then for about tue years and then rolerate to mental jobs like

translating

.. If they koop homosexuality many batrem themelves they

probably won't be bothered by authorities, but 1P they approach any Husslans

they could get l youra in jall i. vero probably pronised extra salary,

tax free, whloh they will cot as lone as prosont intell chied to in pover

but no longor ... Iltelo alenificance to immodiato tranting of citizenahip,

since 1t 1s Just ons vey of naldre, sure they don't leave. Deryabin Inter»

Flow published in Wash Dally Bors, & Sopt 60.

29 rear-old

Ostober 1960. Martin narried a/Soviet eirl fron southern Russia In

Dagra, ascordine, to the lashinpion Post and INT lus 25 and 2ls Juna 1960.

4. Novembar 1900. State talegran i1ll9 of this date, from Hoocou

repartod that beth had been soen at a publie conourt, at shieh timo the

Nowawock correspondent Ind learnad that Martin had nurrlod a Soviet girl

and was livirg in a hotel.

She mas not along. at tha concert. M and w

Joft. In a chauffeured date Ascording to AEDAZZLS, KUB vas-taking dare

of their: resottlonente

Noverber 1960. Martin at bride moved to haringrad. hitchell may bave

moved there too at the ame tine, sinoo he vas later reported so be diving

thoro , 960-11. Mail... sei, 122 in e dirt gee i indie directity oren

32 Docenbor 1960, FBIS reparted a broadcast of a TASS Intervlew ulth

rehashing the statonents fron firet interview and rebutting tho

US robuttale of their previous statemento.

In roply to question about

their Impressiom of Soriet 11f0, they lato stereotyped reples abent

Sovlet culture, friendliness, ote. Martin euld he and Mitchell wanted

to do peacetul work in anthematies.

"Ly viro la also coing to do solentifia

work. She la a wonderful Soviet cirl, an excellent houseleper, and a am

very happy with her."

A TASS broadeast reportod the next day (20 Dee)

In FBIS presented lotters of comendation fran Migh NSA offiolala to

Martin, In attempt to refute charges that M and M not 1n full possessien

of their mental fecultias.

Decencer 1960 aus January dce delorer*

chance encounter between

Theodore Shabad of the NT in a ieningrad

cafe.

Martin approached Shabad, maor he

said he recognized as. an Anericang.

and talked to him for three hours, Said he had been living in

reningrad since

November 1S60 - under the assumed nine oi Vladislav Interovich jokolovskiy

(picked from phone book) since he

airaid US agents Hould get him. biting

comfortably with 29-year-old wife

in two-roon apartment overlooking leva in

& southeast district of the city, an working at Steklor cathenaties institute

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Decinter 1960.

INCOMING TELEGRAM Department of State

CONFIDENTIAL

Classiflealion

38

Action

EUR

Info

SS

G

P

SCA

INR

CIA

NSA

OSD

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

RMR

Control: 5166

Rec'd:

January 11, 1961

9:08 a..

FROM: Moscow

TO: Seoretary of State

NO: 1608, January 11, 4 p.m.

American exchange student returning from Liningrad reports

Tania Cezevaka, American student at Leningrad University,

was shopping In Leningrad department store juse before

Christmas, when she was approached by American defector

William H. Martin, likewise shopping. They had apparently

once shared Russian language course.

Martin accompanied

by "mousy" Russian whom he introduced as his wife.

Exchanged few words, then wished merry Christmas. and

left.

He is reportedly in Mathematics Institute Leningrad:•

and Leningrad rumor places his companion Mitchell "sone

where in South!'

C264.6) Men, er the end in,

Anita Patick, d F0/D,

validate foreign THOMPSON

Tomer ded repried that she san do ede on senange sortercher.

see freetes she in gird

@ it leningra R-49, Mytinsteya Natirizhnaya San Wife presumadle, liver

i he wah a About bo Judent lies there intones sche streng pe)

neusly i to a room: & Sop + 2 foreigners.

33/2022

22s20

erases airs edenta

Katant

T38030

---

## Page 7

locitre and tod aires his

having

"aicen

it

surfecin cress inoriew trut in? has noting to do with dictoion, ahlor race

more before) but rigat have cimon arother sethod of protest .

Intimirated by biseriover,

Ir gan, Loire, etc, statements that de ind :itchell

should se shot ... his impressions of sa: lt would in like in tacp mad eome

fron"sa? and otier sorlet creparamia ra-azines whier. vere overly rosy

complEted Lous had promised se could live armhere but susion't let hia leave

deniserad, linden he manteo to do becaise is soutern ire cot atra an Lie

dano climate tere ...

jous did keep saizy uremiro: e.500 rubies a mont.

(3555), shich about equal to ais lO salary but considerably nore than

covitts

pot 10r doing sare work o rot a cominist and no intention ol becomine eno

occasional nail fror parents.

25 June 192. Reuters reports on this date recounted an episode told to

their Leningrac correspondent by benny Coodman, io on tour in tsar with ais

band. irevious evening whilet out stroking vich Terrence Carerman, he had

been a proached by Martin - in arother so-called chance encounter.

Vartin

l00:ed

in the pink and

asteC Iftagnes narrledly lt the. "ere lawers, seing

he needed one badli when Gooiman tol hia wio he was, dartin said he das

sorry but dián't, like his music.

ile asced if they would contact visiting

Harvard professor (of Soviet law) Harold Ferran and mals an appointment for

his, wich they deelined to do but, save ile terman's hotel and

soon miaber.

T'he two deuters reports are contradictory as to viethor jartin contacted -erman;

In ore case, jerman reportediy sald iartin did not contact hin, while in she

other be repor'edly refised to sajo

L2:101als at Steklov institute concirmed

that cartin was enployed there but resad to rive his home accress.

26, June 1962.

Intergie:.

The lanco's Post carried the gist of the torea hour cale

hest rad

Spione mit dum hechenschieber

Psychelogen und Psychiater testen amerikonisshe Geheindionstloute

те гент.

in denen

eis.

Maryland, «twa 30 Kllometer von Washing-

Abantz am Schuh und die Kaliblutigkelt

son chilemt. In den Maucrn cass riealgen

eines Vertreters

senuaten,

Spion

Gebäudes sind dort die besire Ingeniture,

werden, echoren allmahlic der Versanger-

Physiker und slathematiker der jungeren,

helt on. Der kalle Krleg sebar eine gand

Generation vercinial, die die arerikanische

neue Art Splone: Manner, die im geholates

Reglerung aultreben kann.

= Zimmer em Schreiblinch mit Rechenschieber

Troth aller

Geheimhaltune got es ge

-anter letronenha

arbeiles und fur ihre

use Vermulungen a Bie gehen dahin. dad

alten Tago auf cine Stantsprasion

rechnen

de MiRA ale Hauptoutgabe die Enticuage

curfere

" Tung

freumer Gehrimcodes,

Hine hahe schule fur diesen neuen Tro

arcklung you radar-

die

und funkiestnlsdica

des Spiers

ist die

amerikanische Natlotal

Moglichkeiten zum Ablanges rou lachris

Becurity AgeNCy (N5À),

die dem Verteidi-

ten zuruwiesen bekam

- kari, elektrant-

gungemanisterium

unterstebe

Ihr

Haupt-

sche Spionage rum Zlel hal

quarter liegt aul elnem 400 Hektar proßen.

Die NSA,

die unter den alteren Seme

• streng bewachten Grund tid in fort Mend

stern

an. amerikanlschen

Univeruitaten

#tändig

Nachwuchs

Tilt

sucht,

strrichtet

bes

auf die

Werbung

mit dem in

viellasug

schilleraden

der

Wort

Im Wetlaud mit der Privat-

industrie um Leute, die in der Lage sind,

Banze Ballcrien

von Elektrozengehirnen

nutzbringend einzusetzen und

kaum be

cannte Sprachen zu sprechen und zu schrei

ben, werden nur die Altersversargung, län-

rung und andere Vortelle des moderuen

Hauptquelle für das Wisen Ober

die

sind zwel. Jeberlauler. William H

Blartin und Vernon F. Mitchell zingen ta

nethelten bekanne, die ibnen asseblich alm

Code Brecher der NSA bekanat goworden

Faren Martin and Mitchell berichicten, die

Vereinigten Staaten Leßen absichdich Flug-

Deuge an den Grenken der Songesanion ent

Ianghliegen, die mit Hilte feine: eleistroni-

scher Geräte sämtliche in Code sefunkten

sowjetischer Onung stationen

und Flugzeuge aufnähmen. It-reamt seien

rund um den Erdball „mehr als sxj° ameri

kanische Abhörstationen in Berred, mit de

sen Hilfe ständig die in Gehe nodes uber

mittelten internen Nachrichten von mehr

als 40 Netionen Oberwacht würden = darr

unter nuch die befreundeter Linder. Die

baltung als nivor. Jeder Bewarer um eine

Stelle in dem elektronischen Spionagezen-

trum mub seither Verhöre ta Psycho

logen

und Pirchiater und emen grürdli

when kerous mun Thema -Cobinhaltur

---

## Page 8

14-00000

Martin

4*27718

mitchell

WRTIS, "Illian Hilton

Defeated June 1900

#121len: Manilton PANTIN and Bernon Perguson KITCHELI.

al the tarlon semurley iguroy, the loado, Varyland.

latt soured, karyland, there thoy sere toth rentine

an 24 June 1930, estonsibly to drive to dia ioot coast

Bee l:le lanilion iin they lallod to retaro to

thats jobs at the and of thais vacation soriod (li

July 1900), 18 tas leamal shit choy had cone to

Mentoo and thenon to Dista where they had obtainad.

trensportation to the 85:0.

0a 6 Fostenber 1960

MARTIN and litonkad appeared before a colovited prese

conferenos in tha laze of douraliate In Mosco, del

In s seathing denonomant of the lalted statos, give

thole reasons for leaving thalr country and fer soaking

serior altisonship. the tus mon sure hired by $be

lational sourity gany in 195% both had provoual

served in tha United Motos levy more they had beans

friendo.

shortly before hio flight fron the Unided

states, Mitchel had had three ost hour boastero with

e payellatriato

probody discussed his "dealering father, bla

en and vomen,

KiTTIs sas borg in coluntus, Doorete

as 27 Fay 1931, 110 parenta nor reside 68 iLlenstan

Washington, KITCHad sa bem in San Franalese,

Callporta on ll Karan 1929 and Mo permla noo

meado at inrals, Callterala,

'!!?

20/281338

---

## Page 9

DREECTOR ADJUSTS

TO LIFE IN RUSSIA

But Ex-U. S. Aide Concede:

Partial Disillusionment

By THEODORE SHABAD

LENINCRAD,

June

22-A

United Stales difertor from the

Exi: highly secret Natonal Becurity

Agency ty Washirging has be-

deone

diallusioned

with

some

Experts of Soviet life since his

arrival two years ago.

speaking

0f h1

accidental

Impressions

in

ringrad cald. Willarn H. Mar.

said, bowever,

that

living comfortably and was will.

Ing to make the best of his new

altuation.

Bald ho had marled

Rurian girl and was continuingl

DEFFETION A PROTEST:

Bindies toward a lugher degree

in mathematics.

He hak assumed.

scle 1sh0

the ninto sadoloredy

tre-

Thod 80

Calor

Cane •

Soviet citizen.

The

5l-yerf-o'd

statistician)

apose enlungly aiter he had ap

¡States cipher systeme and sit,

Iroached

this

corte.undent bretag and analting loraiga

whom he had promitzog-as an serge, coles.

American. His abereairaits hadi;

is the mitting in trieste

been unknown outside the Soviet!

Martin

said his disilusionmenti

Union

since

he and d

w12

1t7

Sorter

Vala

Bernon F. Mitchell appeare

sterned largely from

the fac

MoscOw

news conference

In that he had some anthout know.

Beptember,

1960,

more than twoling such about what he

months

after

their

dis ppear

"Soises reality."

cailse

mace from the Uniled Suites,

He

sadit he

WaS- D0! 1

Com

Al a newe conference, which)

mulla? and had no

intention

of;

was organized by

the presa de-joing die party. llis detection

act

protest

had lets

the

he United Eaten

that they

Stateg

mteiit®

gence Fractices,

he said.

cause they

had opposed certain

He

added that his imprassion

intelligence methods, particular-of the

Serviet

Union

ly: the

use

of

reconnaissance derred mainly

had

best

flights

over

Alibough

the

Sortet

Unton.

from the Soriel

shortly

the

reracent's

Englisa langunge

defection

came magazee, USSR.

Like all

after

she

U.2

lotlamade scurals, he said, 1

f: Francis Gary Powers had

to paint the sttuation

doined by the Russians during in the Soviet Union in some

such

flight.

Martin

and what rosy terms.

Stitchell declared their decision

so dete dad be amir easier dies des

his studies for cas

in philosophy,

and had nothing to do with thel the egairalent of a PHD..

Powers mission.

thire grare in the Mationo!

marity

Agenes. e

Deteste

Department concerned est

al the rentmin sut approred itingt

er politically by the 8o

wilh

be securfiy. of Unitediviet maine, Such roce

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

MAY, JUNE

24,7

it he esth

Temila Ses'a from the southigrante."

Martin sald be took the name, and rites

tear that he

becalise

from 'asthma

for!

irts supervinee, what hò de.

of Lenir frats

humid

climate. jellned to ideauty,

1s' a av'er

would be

traced Alartin

said his request badimathematician

'by United Slates

He been retured.

iponding membey of the Acad

trecalled that after the loscow

Forse, authorities had keptiemy, Starun bad

inevis conference former Prest- their promuse of providing ap-!

Martin refused to say touch

dent Truman

(baring

sald

that

at seria

quored as proximaieiy the

Bame

aalary. about Mitchell, tia fellow

and that be

received in

the United fector,

but he disclosed that his

blitchell should he

"enor" thei States, Martun added

He sald friend also was living in Lenti

defector.

who

blord and he

sus getting about 500 rubies'krad and was in

8o0d hesita

Wears

horn-rimmed

glasses: (8535% s moal,. considerably und spirita.

Martin raid Mre

looked well-groomed. He seemedimore tran most Borlet malhe- chell, who also has lecome a

generally salisfied wit his ma mauria*s doing similar work.

(Soviet citizen, had not changed

tertal lue In the Soviet Union.

appeared

He sald he and his wite.

whomigained weight

to

have his name

in the last two

the met and married in Yorem-, years

sle

WAg

Soviet authorities are supply

relaxed and ing

'Startin with Unlied 8:ules

ber, 1980, at the Ilack sea re-iapoke wich a wry sense of nongyapers and magazines

sort

of

Gagra,

had treir ewnihumor.

"had requensed and

withs

listiet

two-room

apartment overlook

ling

the

He

commented

that in

'Sis'conventences such as as Amet-!

Neva

River in a south- study et

easters

district

Communist

dotirine can brand of mustard, to which

seemed to allach intich i-

12321

complained that the

Rus-iin

Marxism

had portance.

Gians

had refused

let

him difficury understanding.

change

his place of

Iccalled

residence.

Alaria

said

he

MartIn

seid he was receiving

nowioccastonal mall from

that at the

news|working on his dissertation,

g'ents,

his pier-

Mr.

und Mis,

John

conference ho had salt autbort

problera

la the field of

statia. Martin

of Ellensburg.

had assured him he coulditica,

al the Institute of Mache-ithrough Post Office Box 184 st

TriesTeT

wo thonss."

malics of the

SoMet Acedemy! Moscow's central pose office. He

teenty, he asli, ha had ay-o? Ecteames.

Ke

¡pied for a change no residencal passed dis

oral

cald

ho sadienclined lo give lus addroas to

akamination! Leningrad

201-282338

Pars ain

$;

---

## Page 10

14-00000

2ZLL

R137

27718

NIGHILEAD MARTIN

LENINGRAD,

RUSSIA, JUNE 25- (REUTERS>-A VISITING HARVARD

ROFESSOR TODAY. DENIED. HE HAD BEEN. I" CONTACT WITH BALLIAN

S1• AW AMERICAN CODE EXPERT WHO DEFECTED TO RUSSIA IN

T5C0 WITH BERNON MITCHELL, ANOTHER EMPLOYE OF THE SUPER-

SECRET NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY®

THE DENIAL CAME FRON DR. NAROLD BERMAN, HARVARD PROFESSOR

of

SOVIET LAW, WHO SAID KE MAD NOT BEEN CONTACTED MY THE BLOND,

BESPECTACLED KARTIN.

VISITING JAZZRAN BENNI GOODHAW TOLD A REUTERS CORRESPONDERT

LAST MIGHT THAT ME AND U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F•

CATKERRAN RET FARTIN' BY CHANCE ON A LENINGRAD STREET LAST

WEDNESDAY•

GOODAAH, HERE ON A SOVIET CONCERT TOUR, SAID MARTIN CAME

UP TO HIN AND CATHERMAN AND ASKED HOW ME COULD GET IN TOUCH

SITH PROF • BERRAN

MARTIN "TOLD ME HE WEEDED A LAVYER BADLY," GOODHAN REPORTED.

MARTIN DID NOT SAY WNY•

CATHERMAN SAID HF. AND GODFAN WHO CAVE

HIS FINAL CONCERT

KERE LAST NIGHT• ADVISED MARTIN- -KNOWN AS

"THE MOTTEST

DEFECTOR AROUND

HERE"«TO CONTACT BERMAN AT MIS MOTEL.

SODHAN ADLED®

"I TOLD THE HAN (MARTIN) WHO I WAS

AND

ME REPLIEDS "GEEE I AM SORRY, BUT I JUST

LIKE YOUR NUSIC.

DOH"T HAPPEN TO

HARTIN, HO

WORKS AT THE MATHERATICS INSTITUTE HERE UNDER

THE

"SOXOLOVSKY®" TOLD A CORRESPONDENT LAST WEEK HE

WAS

"DISILLISIONED" WITH SOME ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIES TODAY THAT

OFFICIALS AT THE MATHERATICS INSTITUTE CONFIRMED

MARTIN VORRED TRERE. BUT THEY REFUSED TO GIVE HIS NOME

ADDRESS.

EUP. 3:00P

201-282338

---

## Page 11

14-00000

MARTIN (CHEDULED)

1.FWISGRAD, RUSSI

29-(RFUTERS) THE CA..

AMERICAN DEFECTOR TODA, HAD

TAKEN AN ODD TURN-- INVULVING A

FAMOUS ¿AZZ CLARINETTISS, A MARVARD PROFESSOP AND THE

DEFECTOR'S REPORTED REMANY THAT HE SEDID A LAWYER BADLY."

THE DEFECTOR IS VILLIAN MARTIN,

THE BLOND, RESPECTACLED,

31-YFAP-OLD

CIPXER EXFERT THO TENY TO RUSSIA

I" 19S0 WITH BERNON

MiTCKELL, A FELLOW EMPLOYE OF THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL SECUPITY

MARTIN NOW LIVES IN

LENINGRAD ARD IS SAID TO HAVE DECLARED KE

BEER "DISILLUSIONED" ABOUT SOME ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

THE BAZZMAN IS BENNY GOODMAN, WHO WITH MIS BAND WOUND UP A

HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL AFPEARANCE IN LENINGRAD LAST NIGHT.

AND TAF. HARVARD UNIVERSITY EDUCATOR IS DP.. HAROLD BERMAN.

A PROFESSOR OF SOVIET STUDIES CURRENTLY STAYING AT A LENINGRAD

GOODRAN TOLD A REUTERS CORRESPONDENT LAST RIGHT THAT HE AND

U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F. CATHERMAN MET MARTIN BY CHANCE

ON A LEWINGRAD STREET WEDNESDAY.

THE JAZZMAH SAID ME WAS WALKING WITH CATHERMAN WHEN MARTIN

CARE UP TO HIM AND ASKED HOW HE COULD GET IN TOUCH WITH PROF.

BERFADODHAN ADDED THAT MARTIN "TOLD FE HE NEEDED A LAVYER BADLY.-

THERE VAS NO IMPEDIATE EXPLANATION OF THIS REPORTED

REMARK.

CATHERMAN SAID NE AND THE BANDLEADER HAD ADVISED MARTIN

DESCRIBED BY THE U.S. OFFICIAL AS "THF HOTTEST DEFECTOR GOING

AROUND NERE"--TO VRITE A NOTE TO PROF. BEXMAN AT HIS HOTEL.

LAST NIGHT BERMAN DECLINED TO SAY WHETHER HE HAD BEEN IN TOUCH

VITH KASTIN®

CHORET

27718

FIRST ADD LENINGRAD MARTIN XX MARTINE

GOODRAN AND CATHERMAN ALSO SAID THAT WHEN THEY MET MARTIN IN

SIREET THEY MAD NOT REALIZED IT WAS MARTIN AT THE TINE®

TKE EANDLEADER ADDED "I TOLD THE MAN WHO I WAS AND HE REPLIED,

I AM SORRY, BUT 1 JUST DON'T XAPPEN TO LIKE YOUX MUSIC.

TESTERDAY IT

#AS REPORTED THAT RARTIN WAS LIVING AN

LENINGRAD UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME, "SOXOLOVSKY."

MARTIN NAD TALKED OF HIS LIFE SINCE HIS DEFECTION TO AN

AMERICAN CORRESPONDENT (EDS: THEODORE SHABAD, NEWSTORK TIMES)

THIS WEEX DURING AN ACCIDENTAL MEETING IN A LENINGRAD CAFE.

BARTIN SAID HE WAS LIVING "COMFORTABLY" AND HAD BECOME A

SOVIET CITIZEN AND THE HUSBAND OF A SOVIET GIRL®

MARTIN REPORTED ME WAS WORKING AT A LEADING MATHERATICS

INSTITUTE•

HE SAID FRANKLY THAT HE HAD BEEN DISILLUSIONED" ABOUT

SOME ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

KE COMPLAINED THAT SOVIET OFFICIALS HAD REFUSED TO LET HIM

HOVE TO MOSCOW ALTHOUGH HE HAD BEEN ASSURED HE COULD LIVE

WHERE HE VANTED.

BUT, MARTIN ADDED, THE RUSSIANS HAD KEPT THEIR PROMISE TO 30

TA A SALART APPROXIMATELY EQUAL TO HIS OLD AKERICAN ONE AND NE

MAS EARNING SORE 300 RUBLES (ABOUT S560 AT THE OFFICIAL.

EXCHANGE RATE> PER FONTH®

MARTIN ADDED THAT MITCHELI, VAS "IN GOOD NEALTH AND SPIRITS" AND

¡ ALSO HAD BECOME A SOVIET CITIZEN.

MARTIN SAID HE (MARTIN) HAD CHANGED HIS NAHE PARTLY BECAUSE

SEE FEARED BEING "TRACED BY UNITED STATES AGENTS.""

104: 201-282 338

---

## Page 12

F16

MATTIN

BY JOHN MILLER

FOSCOW, JUNE 24- (REUTERS) - WILLIAM MARTIN, THE AMERICAN CIPHER

EXPERT WHO

DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET UNION IN 1950, 15 LIVING

"CONFORTABLY" I4 LENINGRAD UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME.

MARTIN TALKED OF XIS LIFF. SINCE HIS DEFECTION TO AN

AMERICAN

CORRESPONDENT CEDS: "THEORDORE SHABAD OF THE NEY YORK TIMES> THIS

VEEK DURING AN ACCIDENT IL MEETING IN A LENINGRAD CAFE.

MARTIN, WHO DEFECTED WITH BERMON MITCHELL, A FELLOW

EXPLOYE OF

THE U"S.

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, SAID HE VAS

LIVING "COMFORTABLY» AND VORKING AT A LEADING MATHEMATICS

INSTITUTE•

THE BLOND, BESPECTACLED, SI-YEAR-OLD STATISTICIAY FROM

ELLENSBURG, WASH•®

SAID NE HAD BECOME A SOVIET CITIZEN AND

MARRIED A SOVIET GIRL

HE HAD CHANGED XIS. NAME TO "SOXOLOVSKY" PARTLY BECAUSE

ME FEARED HE VOULD BE "TRACED BY UNITED STATES AGENTS.

HE TOLD THE AMERYCAN CORRESPONDENT THAT

FORMER PRESIDENT

HARRY TRUMAN KAD BEEN QUOTED AS SAYING THAT NE AND MITCHELL

SHOULD BE SHOT•

(MORE> EUP

Babus than do

R18

FIRST ADD MOSCOW MARTIN XXX SHOT•

MARTIN FRANKLY SAID HE HAD BEEN "DISILLUSIONED" ABOUT

SOME

ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

HE SAID KIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE SOVIET UNICH NAD' BEEN BASED ON

READIRO SOVIET ENGLISK LANGUAGE RAGAZINES WHICH, WE SAID.

WERE LIKE ALL PROPAGANDA JOURNALS AND WERE APT TO PAINT A

SITUATION IN SOMEWHAT ROSY TERAS.

RE SPECIFICALLY COMPLAINED THAT SOVIET AUTHORITIES MAD REFUSED

TO LET NIM MOVE TO MOSCOW ALTHOUGH HE HAD BEEN ASSURED HE COULD LIVE WHERE

HE CHOSE TO.

RUSSIANS WAD KEPT THEIR PROFISE TO PAY NIM A SALARY

ABOUT EQUAL TO THAT HE RECEIVED IN THE UNITED STATES, HE SAID -

AND KE WAS EARNING ABOUT 500 RUBLES CABOUT $560 AT THE

OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATES A MONTH.

XE SAID MICHELL WAS "IN GOOD KEALTH AND SPIRIYS" AND HAD

ALSO BECOME A SOVIET CITIZEN

THE TWO MEN APPEARED AT A SENSATIONAL PRESS CONFERENCE MERE IN

SEPTERBER, 1560. AMONG THEIR ALLEGATIONS OF U.S.

INTELLIGENCE METHODS WAS THAT THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

SPIED ON ITS ALLIES AS WELL AS COMMUNIST. COUNTRIES.

EVP 1:00P

it airy

---

## Page 13

14-00000

RTB

URGERT

LFAD PARTIE (CHANGING

1L152)

BENNY GOODMAN

LEMONGRAD TOMIGHT

RUSSIA

FINE 24- (REUTERS - BANDLEADEN

REPORTED THAT AMERICAN DEFECTOR WILLIAN

FARTIN "OLD PS HE HESCED A LAYYED DADLY."

THE AMERICAN RUSICIAN, WHO WOUND UP AN APPEARANCE WITH HIS

BAND HERE THIS EVENING, TOLD A CORRESPONDENT THAT MARTING MOW

LIVING IN LENINGRAD. ALSO ASKED HOW HE COULD GST IN

TOUCH WITH DR. MAROLD BERMAN, HARVARD UWIVERSITY PROFESSOR OF

SOVIET STUDIES CURRENTLY STAYING AT A LENINGRAD HOTEL.

(MORE)

6850P

•••*

R80

FIRST ADD LENINGRAD LEAD MARTIN XXX HOTEL®

RERMAN TONIGHT DECLINED TO SAY WHETHIR HE HAD REEN IN

TOUCH WITH MARTIN, THE AMERICAN CIPKER CLERK WHO STIRRED UP

HEADLIMES AROUND THE WORLD IN 1960 UNEN HE DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET

UNION ALONE WITH BERNON (CORRECT) MITCHELL, A FELLOW

EMPLOYEE OF THE U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY•

U.S. CULTURAL ATTACHE TERRENCE F. CATHERMAN, WITH

GOODMAN WIER ME KET FARTIN BY CHANCE ON A LENINGRAD STREET

VEDNESDAY, SAID

HF. AND THE BANDLEADER NAD ADVISED THE DEFECTOR

TO VRITE A NOTE TO PROF. DERRAN AT HIS HOTEL•

(NORE) 6:51P

4: 908499 +n2.19.

SECOND ADD LERINGRAD LEAD MARTIN % XX MOTEL.

CATHERMAN DESCRIBED MARTIN AS "THE HOTTEST DEFECTOR

DOING AROUND KERE."

COODRAN AND CATHERMAN SAID THAT UNEN THEY NET MARTIN

IN THE STHET THEY HAD NOT RFALIZED IT WAS MARTIN AT THE TINE.

GOODRAN TOLD A CORRESPONDERT HE WAS VALKING VITH CATHERKAR

ON VEDNESDAY MORNING WHEN A MAN CAME UP TO HIM AND ASKED

MOU HE COULD GET IN TOUCH WITH THE HARVARD PROFESSOR. "HE

TOLD NE ME WEEDED A LAWYER BADLY, " GOODMAN ADDED.

GOODRAN SAID THAT "' TOLD THE NAN WHO I WAS AND HE REPLIED,

•GEE, I AM SORRY, BUT I JUST DON'T HAPPEN

YOUR MUSIC.**

(HORE)

9901P

R82

THIRD ADD LENINGRAD LEAD MARTIN XXX MUSIC.**

GOODRAN AND THE AMERICAN OFFICIAL TALKED TO A REUTERS CORRESPONDENT

TONIGHT AFTER IT AS REPORTED DURING THE DAY THAT MARTIN VAS

LIVING IN LERINGRAD UNDER AN ASSUMED NAME.

FARTIR TALKED OF HIS LIFE SINCE HIS DEFECTION TO AN AMERICAN

CORRESFONDERT CEOSE THEODORE SHABAD OF THE NEW YORK

TIMES> TRIS VEEX DURING AN ACCIDENTAL PEETING IN A LENINGRAD

CAFE.

MARTIN SAID KE VAS LIVING "CONFORTABLY" AND VORKING AT

A LEADING MATHERATICS INSTITUTE®

•BUT NE ALSO VAS SAID TO HAVE EXPRESSED DISILLUSIONNENT

ABOUT, SORE ASPECTS OF SOVIET LIFE.

THE BLOND, BESPECTAGLED XX. X PICKING UP FOURTH PARA

ORIGINAL (R16).

BENC

:: 18098

---

## Page 14

A *

27718

d **3

U.S. Defector

Weds Ideal'

In Russia

MOSCOW, Dee. 10- William

Martin, the runaway American

code expert who said he pre

ferred

Soviet

women,

closed today he has married

o*She Is a wonderful Soviet

girl, amexcellent huusekeeper.

and

1 sm

very happy with

her." he said.

Martio, 29, and fellow defee

"or Bernon Mitchell, 31, gave

'an interview with Tass

news

agency which was splashed In

the

government

newspaper

The two former employes of!

the National Security Agency:

repeated

the

eccusations

United Sestes they

made

at a sloscow piesa conference

is September.

Martin and Mitchell disap.

peared from the United States

in June shortly after an Amer-

Icen D2 seconnaissance plane

wut shot down over Russia.

Martin said he and Mitchell

plassed in do "pesceful" work

in tus:hematles and "my witel

in aiso going to do scientidei

work

wThe two men left a state trade not.

ment in the Uuited States sty.

Ing one

of

the reasons

their defection was that "the

salents of women

are encour

aged and utilized to a much

Quester

extent kn

the soviet

Union" and this made

Soviet

wonten

"more

desirable

28

maLes."

Defector Martin

Wed to Russian

MOSCOW, Dec.

19 (AP) m

A Uniced States National St-

curity Agency code export

i ha

fied to the

Soviet

Union 1axg

FUMPT TO THE RISIN

woman.

The oficial news agency Tass

carrled an interview with Wil-

ham H.

Martin, who came

10s00W

with another

agency

code clers,

Bernon P. Mitchell

This said blartin disclosed he

bad narrled "e wonderful Bo.

vies girl and excellent. house-

keeper."

The

Tase

interview.

squoled Martin as

ales

tre:

United States "will conunue lo

carry out cubrersive acuvities.

in olher natons under. Presi

dent-elect Kennedy because

«Alien Dulles was retained as :

director of the Central Intcll.

dence Agency.

by

adr.

Ken-

nedy, Tess said kitchell abreed

with Martin.

ijdic.886.r.

0524= 11n0

201-282338

---

