# 104-10521-10025

## Page 1

104-10521-10025

Д"'-

1J

ABA SECRET

Prisoner serica

TOTATE CHIT

Done: Decores

Did move cITE

8986

"PIC AMASH AMTRUNX AYUORLE

+159 616191684)

2F08 651871958

TIaS8 r

EAGLE WAS APIEFED ON AMTAUNNO

CUPC RETURN

5::: Iê FERGUARY, AMLASHI MILL CHECK WITH ANTHUNAID NIO

.R:Y XPOMEGGEABLE AS ME MDES MAJORITY GROUP INVOLVED WITH

11:114.

iF AMTRUNXIS ARRESTED, 'AMLASW ILL WAITE LETTER 1O

': it INHIS ADCUT LONG AND TINING THIP. IF AMTRUNAR "

..."

SAFE, ATLASIA MILL MIITE ABOUT PLEASAiI R:TUM: SHIP.

AT MUS AROSESTED SED SU REFORE.

ANNA FAFLS ADIA CAN BESI ASSISS DEGREE OF CUSPRUMISI AN

!:IFET MAVE STRIP ALL INCONIMO SU LETIERS BRON MINA..

!:= ME LEFT hIS CARSONS WIIN APIE APPOIN CUT €

•': &A WHEN AMLASI ULPARTED PONUMEN NIITHER L BE

5

---

## Page 2

20F.

rel 710975569

i Dif PEDICO ANY PART OF CACHE.

A/IS TOLD HIM FISHERIEN REES

ANNel AND PARIS OF COMMUNICATIONS GEAN, BUT THAT MONEY WAS UNE

, son one

::TET HAS IN A SERIES WICH OUT OF CIRCULATION. FISHERMEN

M!. •MISER SAID THEY TRYING RECOVER REMAINDER OF CACHE.

APLASHA

..: NOU! TEE TO CHECK AND ALPORT DETAILS BY S& MESSAGE,

'SPECIFICALLA

' HONGED AND CONDITION CONCUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. I AMLASMAS

*RE TO URGE ALLO TO ESTAGLISH RADIO CONTACT IF ALL

•"RICATICNS EQUIPMENT RECOVERED AND IN MORKING ORDER CAPLASN".

MiE ALWAYS BEEN ATRAID OF OPERAZIBA RADIO INSIDE PBRUMEN, IN ORDER

ATINT PRESSURE ANLASHVI AND THEREFORE @18 TO ESTABLISH THE CONTACTE

WET: DUND INIS TYCE RAPID CORMUNICATIONS ESSENTIAL IF IT EVER

"''¡*y CORDINATE EXFILTRATION FOR A/ID ON ANY OTHER ASSET

#/I: DORYS IN PASTURE/FOODER SECTION INNA HEADQUARTERS

i MANANA, AN IMPORTANT POSTE ACCORDINA TO AMLATI, ANTHUGI!

ISLAGO WITH HIM ON SEVERAL COCASIONS. ME AS GIVEN AN OSFICIAL

.?:

5. 62 OPEL> A:D TRAVELS FREGUENTLY TO ALL PROVIS:ES.

STALITIED AAROUGHIST, MIS SERNECES ARE IN GREAT DETA

MAS, PET ASTE RETORS ONY AVIA dAS MORE BACK SECO

¡NE REGIME PRO'AILY FELT ANDO MAS GASOLIO TO RI

---

## Page 3

SECREE

JERS

11-718589

HiFLUENCE AND BECOMINO TOO PORCHFUL IN HIS AREA, THIS LASA

FACT SINCE A/ 1O CONTROLLED EVERYTHING AND DID NOT PERMIT PARTY

OÃ LABOR ORGAMIZERS UNILATERAL CONTROL. APIE'S PRESENT JOS CASIOT

•BE CONSIDEREE A DEMOTION BUT THE TRANSFER WAS A REAL LOSS FRUG THE

OPERATION POINT OF VIEY.

5.

IN CONSPIRACY, LAD'S OULY CONTACT IS AYLASH/S, BUT A/18

DOES HAVE MANY CONTACTS ESPECIALLY MATANZAS AND CARDENAS SUCH

AS ANICE LA'S FAMILY AND FRIEDS MITH WHOM AVIE MAINTAINS CLOSE

RELATIONS.

*ZA GUWADYCH

PLACE AS NE WILL 3E OF LITTLE OR NO USE OUISIDE PBRUMEN. A/IO'S

PROBLEM IS CONTROLLING OUTBUSSTS OF NIS STRONG ANTI-REGIME .

FEELINGS SUT HAS MAD NO DIFFICULTIES WIIN SECURITY SERVICES.

7 AMLASHL SUAGESTED ANSHORT SU NESSAGE DE SENT TO ALIS

ADVISING "ESTE TRANQUILO, CHAALLS REGRESA PHONTO. ".

AMLASID FESLS

MESSAGE WILL HELP HIS MORALE,

#SITIES PORTION EBLO-BERNESTED

CEN PANT TO YOR A MIM

I a PLAN!

FEESECRET

*...

---

