# 104-10186-10084

## Page 1

104-10186-10084

2

MINFORMATION RERORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY .

The molora donEDe informatio itatina she Mallona Delen ol the Dallas But villa de meanin el to MandO LAMA TIe

I8 UBC Bod

T13 nod.100, 12e eparminine se rorslalton of whics lo any manner lo do undullind papan la problbised by law

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEX

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/0051565

SUBJECT Armando TORRES Mesones

(altag "El Frances").

DATE DISTR.

8 February 1965

NO. PAGES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

REFERENCES

• Do Nol Reproduce

CSCI-316/00718-64

9 September 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFIMNITIVE APPRAISA Of CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCEA former Cuban IS officer who servei with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquartors Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the source and Includes supplementa

Information from the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested, that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the

personality reports without

firet checking with this Agency.

Upon further questioning of source, he revealed that the full

name

of Armando, subjoct of the above referenced report, is Armando

TORRES Mesones,

"El Frances."

He 1s the curriculum administra

tive officer in the Departamento Escuelas Especiales (Department of

Special Schools - EE), responsible for guerrilla varfare training,

In the Dirercion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence • DGI).

Operations officers from the Departamento

de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation Department -IN) of the

DGI send TORRES & statement as to what an individual agent, or

groups of agents,

is expected to do upon returning to his native

country and TORRES arranges a training schedule which will prepare

each individual for. his assignment; he decides how many hours of

instruction each trainee will have

In addition,

he arranges the schedules of the instructors in the various schools

and handles the overall administration for them.

teach courses himself although he ranks as the chief instructor.

works particularly close with the Venezuelan desk officers and has

relatively less to do with other LN Department operations officers.1

Headquarters Comment

1.

Aside from the information forwarded with the above referenced

report,

this Agency has no adcitional identifiable information

on TORRES.

5

STATE

DIA

I ARMY

REP

CINCLAYT

(Nola: Field dietribution indicoted by "=)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I NAVY

I AIR

INSA

CINCSO # •

I&NS

Raghunt ad Bud

1

TOCR

FBI 2

INFORMATION REPORT

NH/SA/EOB|1 SELF/R

MH/SAMOR: 1.

HE

ICI/LLA

2 CI/REA

2

LAH/SA/R

JEA

JEL

I HASIN

KH/SA/CI

IBID/AN

NIL/HAVE

(2), NE 1 (2), CI 1, RID 1

1055

INPORMATIONARERORI

LI- 2313

YO PROJECT (ASDUG/1

{CSCI-316/00515-55

COOROINTING TELEA

BLS: LD: swk

CI/RSA

---

