# 104-10164-10047

## Page 1

104-10164-10047 Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

AFPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

NW 53295 6/15/17 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

MATERIAL NETIEFED AT CIA HESUZUANTERS E:

HOUSE SELECT CONUITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF NEÄBERS

FILE TITLE/VIERVOLUE: RESCH AViLA, CRLANDO

201: 222292

VOL.I

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THURD AGENCY MATERIAL

DATE

DATE

RECEIVED

1p:l0

RETURNED

1A6.

1:50

8/1/28

11.40

145085028 9/11/28

REVIEYED BY (PRINT NAME)

BETSY PALMET...

BETSY PALMER

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

Beting

Golmen

Retry Talmer

NO DOCUMENTS MAY DE COPIED OR REMOVED TRON THIS TILE

---

## Page 2

104-10164-10047

=:: Eavess, cute

to earne

Leger No: 5TJ-957 Local PUSe tO: 10-19

_te er lesieesces: Sone

Barellasses:

бау сору 1о:

Orally la:

Chip

soaresd Opapassonal Dals, and Conse

to she spous lu

NETTI HONEY SUREL

Tx1-911

COLLFUTE

Ints offloo has not renorted speolfically on the feu during the

past several woeks becauso littlo has transpired.

It 18 l1kely

shat within the next few weeks the alection problen will be cleared

INDEX

81. 89

REGISTRY CUPY 201-299292

CONFIDEMTIM

19-4 2-415

---

## Page 3

104-10164-10047

80.102101

baddone.

Igeldents Such as Ajillag separe to: 907-95

.

Dato of SaPoransion: Baptesber 1919

Dolo segalTeR:

at torton.

Sapcoabor, 23,

1949

Deto of laparos

(AUDITALINS

Molas unich should by fro

CIENT LONE IN

24 Saprember

1949

nave completed .,ta

1a li i stara of comploca

alaction

1 La

a gorganisation

lou prosidant to triccood infloue OVis vas to har

a sutiles of Inesdents hava postponod ales-

These. two schools now have

counest..

Tha rocent pollco

at the Apronomy School has cosplleated

a me if the cho de enon aá a candidate to end cnd .

ртобілесу.

/is Anal are one do i the sehool of rosesno, and Bauerlie

were also detained after

ta KIllIng of GuStavO MEJIA, no was president of the Aluani desos

alation or tha soclal Sclerats school.

studonts of the schoals affected will have to call sootings to

ratity the position of the provisional presidents and to take

sama dution concerling thase schnols where the president has.

been placed undor palice detention.

fallerophy and Ilterature Schoul.

iresidont of the

cael floadsen

INDEX

REGISTRY COPY 201-299292

FONFIDENTIAL

17F34

---

## Page 4

104-10164-10047

Rabars, Gube.

кляссни

B2R251 11t2 Bri

By cops tos

CC;

TENTIAL

Вереть Ко: TXII- 078. 19011 PIS 93; 20030

see ii tastenscari le

seato/ sub I as

Do ochos asatributian.

NIBIVAYENS

Al Dosa, and o

Crally to,

Регодівся

Hone

COMMALIS

Bayond any doubt the ful la badly organisod

at the prosent

This offico has not roportod

tho

student

arrosta roo

forrod to in tho body of this roport as

tha

aotion taken by

the Govarnment wan puroly arort.

It 1a

cartnin that offoo.

81vo ald or sounnal elvon tho Fit lond

•a during tho naxt

Sow wooks by anticommuntate would be of

soal signifieanos

In the futuro courao of mou

activit

201.41

ur!*

CANI

MAL

0701-299282

19itr

рир

---

## Page 5

104-10164-10047

sagree: D3U Badly DISTUItO! on Eno

or Electrons Verse for for so: 310-979.

DaRo of Information:

ост 1949.

Proco depaired: Habana, Oube.

Evaluassa::

9-2.

Воаток:

ALBIVALENE

Dato degadrel: 1017-21 Oct 1968.

Dare as dagore:

87 00т 1919.

d.r1

do Tia rocont arrusta of siny of lta loadore has

anton has mom sthnuulad eloations for lta Contral

for Novombor 10401

To int! -cumminist group rataina con-

trol of soven of tho Univorsity's thirteon a0r00la.

The

tamaunista havo adaquato

contro. in four or five of the

othor six and claim that thay controly all six of them.

8

LAOROL|SOTO, ALTOdO/SUMARA and BAUbIIZO CASTELLA:OSES

cormorly anti-coumun'sts.

now aro considored leaderg

the loft sido.

sofinttely with the anti-coumunists aftor a long period

or indecision)

are among the prinolpal loadors of the

ants-formunist faction.

There has been a more or less oloarly dofined oak be-

swoon these two groups as a result of the recent etudent

rests MOVARES feels that the feu has the moral obliga-

tion

to defend MIRAZU, BOSCH and other studont leaders.

mo communist leotion, shich is in the happy position of

having denounced gangsterism in the FEU for

somo timo,

la agrinst coming to

the defense. of the arrested leaders 134%

Thty oloarajo has rosaltod-In A portos of-press-releasos

oy soverel flu leaders on both aides. which-have been In-

the news-datiyo

Meantime, the FEU 18 complatoly diaruptad on tho ovo of

Ita November olentions, and the FEU Univeralty Counall

bas not been ablo to exercisa control over the atudent

body.

Almost half of the thirteen sohoold are now without

prosidents and aloations will havo to be hold in thesa

senorit sobools bofore tha Consojo liractivo can be neard

sa Navenior.

p90 157101.80

200 - 26925

СОЇ

THAL

REGISTRY COPY +q-y-zo

---

## Page 6

104-10164-10047

rel.

R0p058 50. 112-770,

21 Des 1949.

Bo

The comunlat your loadore haro a prozonE adventaro as

chay can point to their

past attachs on canesterisa in the

FEU.

Troy orleinally opposed thia tyro of actlulty because

It mas orton directod against t'ersolves, and des under

he contral of actinpulodgod anti-drasalaco.

of atudone loadori.

The death

and to, guisoquent arrasta nou

parast cho daunlato ta point to trols rast opposition

so such sotivitios do tinto sat advasiano.

inla comos

sImultaneously "ith a sonoral studont body sooling that

the feu Blould not concorn 1ts0ll wIth such problome as

tho rocent baustine

The dominia

loadors

lien in opposition to the

proposod, loan

thay

been Joinad

anny non-cortunist

opposition

ArAMIS TAiONIA,

a rolativoly

organizine popular

montfoatations açainat tho loan.

Although the Communlat atroneth in arch school 1a numors-

cally moak, lt 1a roll organiand no thn anti-conmuninta,

Inced witi an onrly

olnation,

Ions thint the prosont dire

orgulzntion may ronult In adiltional control for tho dow

muniat faction.

This has

onuned the anti fionminiats some

concorn,

but

1t la too oarly to toll mhnt the rooults will

De In November as they will dopond almost entiraly upon

who is slected

to the preaidency

of the soveral schools

botroan now and then and upon student activity during

the next few we sies.

It la during

these wooks that. the

anti-communists could by hard vork eliminato nearly all

not sork onorgotidally..

sabools now la the hands

INDEX

So 26733

1:7

---

## Page 7

104-10164-10047

CONFESNTiAL

172011192

Here: -Am:126ns

• Qually 80s

Pido l ey.

• ouier distriburtan

I5-с1 BIRDISIL

27100972-120379.

Most rancos discurrod enta of cha dovniornonto at the lniver

el dy

achoud raid.

soutarbor and Databor and

refarred to the

dida nna the rasuleant pales

tho

rolico on tha soliool of

Matin

curfisented and 15 pursons Moro pro

Intor

Finely fallotico by tin

=entoncod to clort prison torms)

AErogi of somo

Elia "faise do innito. 'leno

75 Individunls

118

ané nocured of boloniin.. to

"rignupations and of "annesterlin".

napid one pulasta

Airon

thoRs aro

raul montonosd

to unn goar in noison.

This croctod a cmat

deal or crus muone tho third or revolutionary gosup mostland

du flala perret, nel alao lod to tln cruntion lo

tho pro-

onunint nuaund proun of the CiLITE 30 Di: CLITIDNBRE AO A

brals for protest uf the arrast of inulll and tro atior studonto.

sase lirmuentino toro in part roaponnible for tha changos mado

uy the Ununinity Council In tha clootlon rocuintions,

and

sira cumullin aotion brought about the quarrola that rosult od

an entitlue un the studont body.

mho raldo, the arrosts, trinla and later dovelopments at tho

university have bren partially covored by the proas but the

to dato, hag int roported on this situation.

ellevad that Hondquarters should be cosnizant

It 13

of

tho innar

Ast the vardous Valversity factions as outlined by

INDEX

100 t0: 01.00

CONTIDENTIAL

REGISTRY COPY

201-299292

---

## Page 8

104-10164-10047

en-intell

25

Be-;

BWRJ0E8: 5.1799-11-

22012=

***5*

....

t0:a31

....

1 malmastens

lass of laforasictis:

M 0920, 02

300 1883.

:1808-9088769

Jarsa Jo6 di 196 Friz, Doro of Bagarti..

85 Jот 1289.

PHESS

DurI ne Cho 1068 PE dario "Lirtual cheda hos ipilenos de

tho l'nfunrally of latare.

eludents tale

cio aerona pacalol, Padando di 101=6 105200

as ravulurdutary.

8.

c.):

oranou

parular

uced

In ro!o

Undieralty Counsil Ia

DIA

m.1s

officera, mitli tha unn

uD, rongad by

should be unended to 1r

Lion

nutronaldt

for

Aluna

tho

for the studont Eracutivo

•188 A

uft thair unn canilantos

•holl

volen"

lope ho

stud

P:D

duied fer 25 Husanior 1013 4yTSh

sifleo

: DAD

7911

tho ipretions,

unsvorasty, 'couno

seh

aotine. Presidont de vi

Scin

iStinxez

and

2130 P3

Dagecordonda

fos orlando actimho.

LACLAUSTESUI,

Laudatio

turing

Pro-comair

o1 5001a1 Solencos

sub

undor arrenti Baudillolt

ctini

tho

School

Prosident

of

the Sohool

PASSOIL RISO

ro-coumunists aro not in co

Lixo tha

non proz corrunist

regulations of the Universi

ämpleto

Group

gard to tho manner of votit

Council,

accord with the noi

the

also participate in the 25

ospecialls

Novortheloss

• In ro

their own list of andidatos.

November electtatis,

they aill

subaltting

Tho third group,

Fay counting amon, them colon

Direoiing Caufftl of

of

tho

the sohook prrealdents.

COA:

IDENTIAL

B):

00 0884 00.80

---

## Page 9

104-10164-10047

.7.

-SENTIAL

гадать оно:

DALe

E8 TJ0 1569.

has gonizat do ergno

anissuscod that

SEE:

vorally taune

•€t..181:8490

11.a

Licrollro

Connell

142008

condon deareer

Trialient

влі ви: & ti

Leich of tin

gerapal.

8:1100!

11800F

84. 8 8

= 1.

-8: 208

Set:

8.:8

ig

s1e0.1

cL

81100

role

o?

8 808

7&608a

and

5154m

Ins calalad in

chio 1.08v0r0168

no hirernity coundle lion recent us the

of nasapnatieliation

ankaunenran

catalod

but the aut!.ur!

20d

dons woula bo

cline any

void.

nares nine

Mia cEntuton

VId: that alcotlung

0.

Univar

auronaty pro.

clost calo

Do hold in the proconco of

t:a pro?

tual achoola.

of the driftlo

and that alections

sl'ent of tho

80100d rust bo hold In

the

sahool.

Fresenco of tho Doan of that

On Is sorembor the third group callod a ronoral reetine

of tho student body to protest tha aloctions.

a cosplato Inlluro rth only a handful. of the studonta

turning out for 1t.

colod and urjod the students to anothor general mating

on 20 Novembor.

The University Council on 23 November announcod that the

aleation rules and the

The general scotine

olection date yould not ba changed.

of FeU was held the same day in tho

Plaza dol Rector Cadonas at the Univorsity,

announcoment of the university Council.

addressed the students,

sations, especially Article 10, vore illngal.

GASTEALAIOS And AGuEtICIANIJO also spoln and Enriqui

otion ol Bonito, 3as4o1 for aotlor

rather than words,

80h001s.

directod the students to tako over the

auplod

Thia ma done Inmodlately and the studants ao-

oicht of the sohauls within a chort time.

Mids astlon mas publialy opronod dy FRO DIQuIDAD booguso

chos alaimud (n) tho monting una callad for n11 rtudonto

tho roproannentiven of nil croupn moro not milonod to

aGato tha1s atone preet to the outpatus or eludensos (l)

---

## Page 10

104-10164-10047

CINÜ SENTIAL

+ 448 8185.

101148

3950 1.0г

.!

31 nosals

lay 8.5

i8:*a

-eélstu.

202241

1:8! 14 of 690

6195%

1.80F:

on.

Mo0.IIr

8: м

оліятому солр О!

!r.!

storansa

Jad boat 101: 861

RitA 62.10.

1.98

80.

aloo toars uns

duded

11.0

ЦО

805 aren

1s mark

tiso dio:.su1

r.Jun

Unirerally

M.11

•поріж

tha

• Counall

shat.

al though clooy

In cocari witt. che

filtrady

tigy

would

dudia in ang

atrico dou by thor: sor to nudiriencion or lho reculacione.

aho she fal dion cubratind in maltini thair dements contadning

offscinde, rostpono-

munt of cloctions in l0 Deconber, and a nuliber

of othor

alnuaos that concom the oporation us tilo livorales.

19. The noxt dry, 31 Hourmhor nion and

thn fil atill had control of

B1x or the orcht sohool.

tho Urduoraity counall

anriounced that cloctions schoculod for tin 25th rould not

do hold and that all classas moro suspended to prevent

violanco.

The Couacil docidud to ronnin in perme ont

Bession but. no cate

was set for the el-etions.

23.

The stuienis ure araro that the loadori of both mit Ise-

tions,

the rovolutionaries

and

the aro-comunists,

are

orinalpally ressonsible for the school

soardals; tlist no.

only studont organization: but the

ctudonts themsolves

have been damngod by the foolish and lamloss tactics of

those loaders; and thint scholastic progross cannot bo

as the rmaont situntion oxiats.

ho a lot nara, men to hunter the communista

niti,ough

nore suocossful in thair natompt lo poetpono the oleolians,

CONi

ITAL

---

## Page 11

104-10164-10047

co..-

MENTAL

I80A1b=

4° 2---=6:

-91:=

ARTEN

móns tz i& t0}

6÷61E

sens doong

20:200

128.+30121

BOERALIN

Lia studek

I:4€

:124

Сарать во.

triss.

.a. -*

Kiro

.8??÷a

-.4f

-з.L0:

Feal!re

:E PGBE

•eE.

cali

88 ro;r0o

ts tert.

ceN

TIt

201-299292/

89-44-2-44)

Twr

---

## Page 12

104-10164-10047

apes do EI5-995 Locos PiLe eo: 20-39

IEKAS:PRHIL:

Some

ly cons 8a:

81L08

КСЕННІ КУКИ ХИЛИ

------

pen, 0002 = =81070l D800..

1- Paraços: S111-560

(M) 08

th18

OFPANIRARION

solt

day

the

hich

18

bras

aprision

obvious

niquation in

coad

turitinh (rSP)

cha t

cha

PARTID

much Junk en tha

mally found aut

made

wisch has

nos had

o montha

has

ablo

organizasson which l6 hoper

Che

Porter

by infiltration and

Cod.olloy.

Latos dovel-

HaBa1f101

ECNNIDENTIAL

0001189:09.00

201-2492927

10 5

---

## Page 13

104-10164-10047

bone ones.

Riktail. isnipilla d: 1986 883-973

0888:64888(922)

Placo acpeisae: listaDA, Cide

8=3

Zabo 0684908:

Calabar 85, dina

Se 20000 86, 1558

готовториа і

PARALALAE • AUBSVALIA

ENCIEN

EATIQUA OVARiS BAS ANCO DOTO

YeU fresidency frea

3a1n00

pa.

EU Jood

pa ana rip offlorado tavo

10l000m

austed sa doalnation of wook

pru loadora

PiTALLA

Unavorsilaria (Trill) Prom Ynesqua

the vera care ade an an archase up tad rotan course.

post.

Onn of

сольтов ни палАділе об

the min reasona was that'na salone to sone nia

boon urabla

the bua rare probing which had cone

POPULAR (YES) dino,

VENTES was removed from the presidenay

roferrod to his

Of the feLl.

"Puablo"

OVARES, who had boon enjoying a vacation, had onco nora taker

over the presidency.

Not only did Enrique oyARas taro over the

o! the spil, to nich post he is not property envitieu.

a grOUp SI FLU leaders had a con

bug fare situation

Gustavora is, Pedruong

109, 80: 01.00

, Glanalfloatdon

REGISTRY CURY MY C"

201-299242

L

---

## Page 14

104-10164-10047

CONFIDENTUL

817-599

Databas is, afal

david, ase

1510120A18

Proso Arias sero also colocates, 81l

BER RIA80

CACOCO 011680408 LY 1:10

did

alfrelada

CURASON

sha

•ALA

preludo

Ruct

shase

150 8

such a

Bh8s

OCTASSIV

0O11ALL6008

the 8o

REU

nold

• CAIn

Clie

the per.

BOmO

and

arudance

of

cho

PdaP

Cha

coulr

turn

problems

SoOn as

the

Oanibus

AJ

nod.

Thay

haw

alrondy

• announced a

ph

In conoral,

cho

ont

Lha

cont

of

jivine

nna pormicind the pip

60 cakri

OVer

olylo

вола

wurst and which

WOr

inabituted

wiirls have

by artsocoamundals.

eating la presently planned for 26 00t00e

2940 In Parque Contral

and

1e montin

as well aa

other

Imflar activitios,

will only bring. closer cogathor rau and

PSP

officials.

The

antf-Communists. connected

with the FLU

8111 nopo to regain

control,

but they suffer at the present

o from weax Leadei

who

bara played into the hands or una

amunists

CONFIDENTIAL

INDEX

---

## Page 15

104-10164-10047

l #-05-01

T.r.

(iteoio

tni lolin, tolesta d

т9o.

191

D0S CAST.

•$

ЧOCHLEВ ANATIO

CAsirR.

Nera troad lgos ise 5

P1 68

mesated to

ma coerdlnatar

forzed,

8020

mO Bu

eanr 3enr Trr;

1417,378

Guat + 24070337

Sallaun

cart on

1542001947

N1onal

DO TUL GAIOR

rоgLяnо of j tAD

mus.

SelA PATAIitA

maoting in taant

DAFING SIYISEA

---

