# 104-10049-10369

## Page 1

104-10049-10369

SECRET

7 October 1959

NEURANIN FOR Direotor of Security

ATTENTION

Fr. Joneph Langdon

Support Branch

260k I Bullding

SUBJ BCT

Confirmation of Verbal Request for Installation ol

Recording Device In Office of Fr. Willian D. Pawley,

Mand, Florida

1o Thia will contra the terbel request nade to it. Langdon of

your office byl

Jor WH/III on 5 Ootober 1959 for the Installa

tion of a recording device in the offlee of Mr. Willlan I. Parley 18

kland, Forida, for the purpose of maling available to the WiD Repre

sentative in Hanl detailed reports of conversations hald by Mr. Pawley

with bia numerous contacte among Caribbean revolutionary groupe,

especially anti-CASTAO Cuban exile lenderl. Mr. Pawley has agreed to

thia plan, which was proposed to him verbally by the WHID representative

in Ham.

2.:

Hr• Pawley 1s a U. S. Citisen, born 7 September 1893.

His Long

career in Latin Amrican affaira Included a tour as !. $, Ambassador to

Peru and later to Braatle. In recent years be has engaged in petroleun

and mining activities In the Doninican Republic and has served as a

consultant to the Doninican Government. He has cooperated with thin

Agancy on a number of occautons and 15 a personal itlend of the DCI

end of CrA.

A requent for operational approval or security cloarance

for Mr. Pawley a use 1a a spretfie project was made in 1952 but

cancelled aubsequently because of a change in plans. Hr. Kohler of

CI/OA advised that the Security Office File No, In connection with

this request vas 170135. It is requestod that your office obtain the

necessary security clearance for Mr.. Pavley's use by this Agency, ea

outlined in paragraph lo

Зe. Since Mr. Pawleyle office is vacated on weekends, It 10

requested that a representative from your office traval to Mlamioon

Iriday, l October, or Saturday, 9 October, for the purpose of survey.

Ing the premises during this verk-end, and that he return to Mland the

following week end to install the recording device, which 1e to be

used only for callers in person, and not by telephone,

On arrival in

Hand, your representative should call kr. Bernard E. Reichhardt, WuD

ropresentative in llant, who shares an office with the 0O Contacts

representative, Room 302, 299 Alhambra Circle,

Coral lables.

File home

telephone is MO 54230, and his office number is Highland 5-3658.

J: Co King

Chief, WH Diviolon

SECRET

DOO T03

---

