# 104-10193-10007

## Page 1

104-10193-100073

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

22 January 1961

FINQUILA FC THE PILOTI

SUDLiTi Debrioring of tr, Vandel Ho Iraddock, Charge tron U. So imbasey

In Harana

the unierniened attended nodebriafint scheduled for 1500 bours,

11 Jamai In Kon 5518, New Stato Attenion.

In addition to it. Eraddock,

M5. 41lltea C, Lowllro, political officer, and Nr. Pabert sayer, econorle:

officor tros she labassy moro on the panel.

2.

pr, traddock opened the decriefing by atating tint U, d. Isbassy

rolaticne wich tho CAThO Covorment vere poor at the tart or 1454 and

cot processively worse.

No stated it was evident fron the firat that the

coTic coverrect win determined to treak down the United sinteal. good

reputation in (ube and Erou;hout latin Aeries and do evcrythine posalalo

to abarge she srionly attltuios tout tho cuban peoula lud for smericano.

3o bsore the other Itana ulacuased veires

A. Front inhointlunes though Hidel ChiTiO savo his iirat

nobico at the cut in Aueriion lalmony representation to ll people during

a broadceas en the ovenin ai a Januiry, the intansy did not receivo a

note to this effect in vitlos intli c100 houre, 3 January. Alter querying

the cuban coverment as to whother this il toral meant only Ascricand and

findire cus tar it ild luva to Include my support dotalla (chauffeurs,

clerator operatore), the labansy fricanerded to the State lepartment that

relationa be broken off bocuuno lt us triceciale to sun bow our Letassy

could operate unior these conditions, vuring the departure parlod, 1t

was eviaent that the latan lovernont could hardly walt to set their bande.

on property cecujiled by Americans.

In soire cines, cubans were present in

the harre ibllo Anericans. vere jackiro lo losva.

In of nou, i State Lopert

pent Offictals are still In Havana axi one in santlago to drav up Inventorico.

of leericon proporty left in the offielal Inatallationa for the sulas Lakasay

which la basiling our relations with cube.

Do SATE rEpUlerIty Although fiel hea lost a ereal deal of

support la metera,

1t la evident that hie cer-clication in coverpirait

orgenisatica asi influr of forolen arma bus increaned bii etrerath al

potentlal for corbattleg roblorence, It souller astianted that pertspo

orly 2is of the people actlvely encude Un:Thl's pollules. ifthand, thay

thought abst soi of the cuban poople so butalusive and don't krea what to

do 1n she situation, and perhaps aj.- would tako active or passive reasures

salast the vorement if thoy bad a eleco.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

co countos control of coveranents They ostinate that tha

commuist's have activo control of the lovermont machire pruly

through second echolon Insures who lay out of the Icelicht.

Sentenano lars lone of the contlonen presect could foresee

CiTiC attempting to use force to seize our Raval Bose at Juantanano.

i consule cuntient IT. yer ostliated this ommiscturing

1s down en averese of ser In tuss and that 15 the los did sot provide

helpe the Industriol section of the econory would ho on the verse of

collapae.

in the acticultural flold, the situation lo not as sertou.

Iroduction arope range fron down za on nujar production to down 50s on

locatoos. Mr. sayer did not thick that the soviet bloe sna branklug ste

neck to haly the econory, that althouth they sight provide enough to

prevent a total collapse, 1t secca evident that the luben voverment will

not be able to nalutaln a pro-ver stendard of living loved or a grosa

national product fleuro as pro-1959,

konioritz at the carpeino laxeli On this raiter it wan

pointed out thet the vieract jain Broned to le a psychological cne in

uhat the corosino has tern riven o fiellig of uportsuce. Hidal keop

eitine; that the covernont neede the cupport of these people, in adultlen,

their une in the rilitle ard tho leownce of arms to then increans thelr

Importence.

O1l situations Ivo of the three refineries axproprinted by

the Government are not oporatirs at thia tie.

No accurate figures en

production vere cited although it was to si that soviet endle oll seems

to be civing refinery opcretora a touch problem.:

It was podited out that

gasoline 1a not ration's anyono with a car can fot his lark filled up at

the roereat canolire station.

ho Anti-lionic itsecal on the question as to who bes the beat

chence to lead the anti-chicht forcia, is, bowler elted the fact that

Tony verona decra to havo little folloring vittin lube. lovilor made the

point. that all cubens sees tó be in favor af the revolution aad social end

econonte salomas that within this frarowerl the principal argent 1s how

to gus the Revolution back on 1ts orlainal track, tovoler jelt tbat manolo

Rey arent to offer the prestost pro ise a sallyino popular support in

culie.

1. LoperandAs hr. ireddock statou that It was definitely neces

gary jon the U. a, loverruent so fter up its propujania esalnat idol. I

partinilar, ho cited nord lor sere radio sul deallet alr iron opiraticio.

LUbar ATTY And 'ELILSEi CAUTIO BenE tO bste Rede clour that

the militla le the favored timant so the arcod forces. the fray say be

disinuntlal alout this but to daco docs not neer to have aprossed acuto

---

## Page 3

SECTET

desatiofection vith the altuation.

It was polited out that the Cuban Rebel

Arry Walte lend the danuary 2 parade throuch Havann and still see to be

bettor urned and trained than ary militla unit.

ELSTRE and she Church, tr. Boudles ms of the opinion thet

recent attacks en the Catholle Church were mdo becausa CASTIC feel that

the churen influence la Cule to venk.

Tho Catholle Church doos not acon

to have the bold on poople in Cuba that It doca In woe Other green In:

Latin horica.

It was pointed out that lf CASTiC's mensures againat the

Church becone too surerr, hia offarta miubt boonerang.

Governest Silentationi On the quention no to uben the CASTRO

Govertment sung into the tomundat orbit, l's, bondier expresaed the opinion

that the perlod April through soptenber 1959 was the critlead souent.... He

thought that after fidel raturnou fron hin trip to the United States an

internal struisle betwuen the moderated and the Coamnlets during thie

period rosulted in the Corsilets gaining the upper hand with tidal leadiag

the covernment into the forlet Bloe.

03

Diatribution

1 - WE/L/FI

- WILTA

- WA/Prop

2 = I11es

---

