# 104-10185-10122

## Page 1

104-10185-10122

CENTRAL INTELLIOSNCE AGENCY

3

2

• 1

SECRET

NO FORSIGN DISSEN

COUNTay Cuba

SUBJECT JOSE POSADA TOrTES

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

CS CI 316/0C6S<-64

14 August 1964

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PLACE & Vashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ AUgUSt 1961

FIELD REPORT NO.

"THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE LEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTAUVE

• RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Hesdquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality

infornation provided by the source

ard includes supplemental

infor-ation from the records of this Agency,

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the indiriduals mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this ageacy.

JOSE POSADA TUITeS, pseudonyn "Calixto," is the Cuban

Consul it Taapico,

He is an officer of the Dircecion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence

was reassigzed to Tampico.

posal to camera tested to vera cruz, but

Headguarters Comments

1.

Tinen the source of the above information was queried

concerning proof of POSADA's association

the DGY

and the Cuban Intelligence Service, source said he had

docu-entary proof.

However, be

said he knew of

POSADA's affiliation from his our trip to lexico, from

observations. at the DGI leadquariers, and fron general

shoptalk.

2 .

A fairly -liable source in a report dated 20 June 1962

provided -isitive identification of Cuban G-2 agents

Included

on the list for agents in lexico was

(int) POSADA, the Cuban Consul

in Vera Cruz.

was described as having been born about 1936, five feet

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DiA

NAVY

AIR

I NSA

1 OcR

RED CINCLIYT

CINCSO * ' ISIS

(Note: field distriburian insicerod by ''')

TEBY 2

3/PV

17/5:/705: 1'15153

-1/SAL:091:31105

TOTALE

o inan 1965

ous so. ,

CI/III

RIDLAX

1S 1 (2), CI%,

- 1530,2.4

JO PROJECT? ARUG/J

_ CSCI-316/02553-01

SOO ROMATIME AGES TU

125:0:sa

RID 1

LIAISON *

201-33÷245

---

## Page 2

3.

5.

SECRET

NO 1052102- DISSES

wight inches tall, having brown hals, a thir brown nustache,

and being

Doeso.

This same source in a repore dated

•I July 1902, added the folloring information:

POSADA a1so

has jurisciction over Isla luheres where (fau) NONES, an:

is stationed.

POSADA weighs about

1S0 pounds, has a white complexion, and is very careless

In lily dress.

A seport Ion a usually rollable cource cotor 27 July 1962;

stated thee the Cuban Consul In Vera Ciuz, Mexico 1a

JOSe LUIS POSADA.

Information dated July 1962 revealed the following information

on Jose I. POSADA Torres:

Assigned to Vera Cruz in Dece-ber 1960, POSADA

1s reportedly also ongaged in' the distribution

propaganda and the supcivision of the Cuban espionage

service in Mexico.

has been identifled by a source

- Of undeternined reliability as cither a member of

the Connunist Party or a party adhereat.

He is known

to have been in contact with General deriberto Jara

Corona, formei president of the Mexican Peace dovemerit,.

a Communist-front organization.

POSADA reportodly

spent two years training in Moscow.

It was reported on 14 June 1963 that Jose Luis POSADA,

the Cuban

Consul at Vera Cruz, Mexico, was departing

for Cura on 28 June 1963.

SECR

E

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

