# 104-10220-10104

## Page 1

104-10220-10104

..:"

INFORMAVION ERORT MINORM LION REI

PORT.

CIA STENCE

GENERAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

PRi0 201

ml matarial ruminine latromaltra sEtitna to Martinal DAfones ol lhe linli

TA-L

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatior

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

COUNTRY cub. /Nicaragua/Venezuel./Colombl ALPORE NO.

CSDB-3/657,607

NW 53217 6/20/17

SUBJECT

support of Luis Somoza for

DATE DISTR.

ill October 1903

Military Plan

of Carlos Prie

socarras to Liberate Guba.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

TDCSDB-3/657, 108

DATE OF 16 O§tober 1963.

INFO.

PLACE &

United States, Miami

DATE ACQ. (19 OctOber 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO.

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DIPINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A Cuban exile who was prominent in politica at the Provincial

level In Cuba, source is well known by the Cuban exiles and

on their political maneuvers. This

information was obtalned

from Orlando Puente Pérez.

1.

2.

Orlando Puente Perez, secretary to former Cuban President Carlos

Prio Socarras:

said that while on a trip to the West Coast in

mid-October lyó3 he had talked with

somoza, tormer

Nicaraguan President, who was planning to make

Somozi asked Puente to tell Prio that

Somoza's full support, and as soon as. he returned from Japan, a

mobilization of men in Nicaragua would begin for attacks against

According to the present schedule,

such attacks would start

aking place in carly Decenber 1963

Puente strongly asserted

equipnent nocessary to vage a campaign against Fidel

Gastro Is available, Including alrcraft and trained pilots.

Prin has delegared to Puente the cespondlbility of completing the

plan vich

laime Varcla Canosa,

President of the

iscoolation oi Veterank of che

Bay of Pig: (A/eC); Aldo Veri

Seraftn,

leider of Anorican Parrlotic Actton Movement (MIPA).

Ely Guttered Menoyo, Leader of the second Nntional Front of

the Escuity (SFVE), and Mino Diaz, all of whon have agreed ro

participate in Prlo's plan by contributing men.

Puente, Soroza has docided to let Prio himself carry out the plan

for the light against Castro.

Purne feels that, despite Prio's

indeclsive character,

declded to spend the monuy needed

Lou the job, since he feels that this Ishin last opportunity to

vindicale hirself in the eyes of Cuban and Underd States

C-0-7

CONtROL.

T-A-

D

DL55EM

5

3

DIA

ARAY

REPCH

NOLANT

I HAV

CINCSO #

TREASURY

NSA

I&NS

TFBT

ATTORNEY GET PRAL

USTA

WIR

WIt/CAB:

L'FGA- 11994

WE/M424

NP (ANCONCERT

CL/QPS/212

CSD$- 1/657,607

COnSOIMATIN

SAs Com T

*, F1 3, CA

C08E 8610344

L,DoDs 1,

MAN NO Y

---

## Page 2

104-10220-10104

••.

C-0-N-F- 1-DA-N-T-1-A-1

CONTROLKED DISSEM

-2-

CSDB-3/657,607

4.

him to utter negative statements.

Puente said that Prio had Instructed him to depart for

Colombla and Venezuela on 20 October to make final

arrangements for the plan.

---

