# 104-10165-10061

## Page 1

104-10165-10061

THIS PILED IN

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTEICTIONS

FERGO

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Pill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach basi

Ilap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy frout cover sheet, unless 1t

recordg significant actica taken or

concents requiring preservation.

FROM:

RID/

TO

ROOM

NO

+10J9.41144

1.

IEL SEGISTRY

CATE

RECRITTO

21Mas 22

WHy/ Prop

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file so. and title shown are not

proper, lesert proper file no. below

and forward documen: to RID/AJ.

PROPER FILE 50.

_TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN-SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROSRIATE

COMMEETs

peters

cops sent to surt montines

COPY DETACHED

Japi bali.

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

12.

14.

18.

16.

VE/A HEGISTES

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST .

DATE MICROF LAED

ABSTRACT

IMORE

TORA

*1-30

6100 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

FILE IMA

FILE SUMBER (PRIMART CODET

26/- 275130

SCINENT DATI

23 Marl

SECRET

DOCUMENT NUNBIR

HUMA 07445

\

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

INFO

FROM

DISPATCH

Chief, Wi Division

Chief of Base, WATE

GLASSACATON

SECHLT

Debate betveen Lula CONTE Aguero and Opponente

ACTION HOUTIS

Hone.

REFERENCKH

DISPAICH STMADI ANO NO

EUSA 7445

HEADQUARTER, FUE MO

33.

[0372-10

DATE

23 March 1961

RE: "435 - CHECK "T Ord

MARKE 2R NOONG

NO ELEANG REQUIRED

NDEXPE CAN BE JUDGE

Y QUIRED HQ. DESE @ºLº

D'attached for Headquarters only as of possible ioterest, 1s a tape made

Dy AVOIDANCE Of the Speeches of COME AGUErO, ArtUrO DUERA, AFIC: COLLAZO

and other speakers during a jubile debate on 16 March 1961. Ibe tape was made

from a Radio lacional broadcast which vas preceded by the playiag of the

"International" and & studio speech by Barique RODRIUEZ Aviere, Coumnist

deputy. This speech vas not taped. The speeches are engraved as both aides.

of the tape.

Vite to den

Attachment:

tape

22 March. 1961

Idstibution:

3 - Elgtra watt

1 • HAVR so att

2 - Ples w/o att

NED/rich

3 i vitri

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

ESPLACES

$1.91

FORMS

AAED. 91.29

WHICH ARE CASOLATE

SECART

AC1-228136

PAGE NEA

JCONTINEs

2/5R

---

