# 104-10071-10268

## Page 1

104-10071-10268

RETURN TO CI

Background use Omly

Do Not Prepsoduce

SECRET 252152Z22

NOV 26

80222Z, 64

IN

30666

DIR INFO LANT

BARR

CUTE WAVE 5253.

3P

R INTEL DYVOUR

16-10

MONKED DID CONTES CARPES

IMPALM PBRUMEN

•'Ot

MATCHED

•O SUPDATA: LUOAMBER-6 FROM CONVERSATIONS WITH PAUL TOUSSAINT, TOO DRE

FERMIN JOSEPH AND FATHER DIEGO MADRIGÃE ALVAREX

IN NEW YORK

C

15 - 18 NOVEMBER. RIDE UNDERA FILED 252.1527

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM. COUNTRYS

HAITI/CUBA

SUBJ? ATTEMPTS OF ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS TO CONTINUE HIS

ASSOCIATION WITH HAITIAN EXILES IN THEIR OPERATIONS

AGAINST HAITI

DO 18, 15 - 18 NOVEMBER 1964

PADAS UNITED STATES, MIAMI (23 NOVEMBER 1954)

UFG-6267

SOURCE: FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT ONE TIME

RISIDED IN HAITI AND THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. HE STILL MAINTAINS

FAIRLY CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH OFFICIALS OF THUSE COUNTRIES.

SOURCE LE A IRAINED REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE

UNLINE PASTA

9043

P

Y

RE

CARD REPRODUETIONE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MATTENDIS OF ROLAND MASPERRER ROJAS IO CONTINE HIS

ASSOCIATION MITH HALTIAN EXELES IN THEIR OPERATIONS

AGAINST HAITI

SATIACA, UNITED STATES, MIAMI (23 NOVEMBER 1964)

# 388666

PID REPORT NO. UFG=6267

COUSCH

AND

APPRAISALA FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT ONE TIME RESIDED IN MAITI AND THE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. HE STILL MAINTAINS FAIRLY CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH OFFICIALS

OF THESE COUNTRIES.

SOURCE IS A TRAINER REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN

RELIABLE IN THE PAST.

1a PAUL TOUSSAINT AND FERMIN JOSEPH HAVE CONCLUDED THAT

THEY HAVE LOST CONTROL OF THE ARMS THAT WERE TRANSPORTED TO MIAMI

301-42669 & 1I. Cuba A Haiti

BY ROLANDE

"MASFERRER ROJAS, CUBAN EXILE INVOLVED IN THE HAITIAN

EXILE OPERATION PREVIOUSLY SCHEDULED FOR OCTOBER 1964. THE ARMS

ARE IN THE CARE OF ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER IN MIAMI AND

MASFERRER WILL NOT AUTHORIZE THEIR RETURN TO THE HAITIAN EXILES BECAUSE

HE IS AFRAID THAT THEY WILL USE THEM TO LAUNCH AN OPERATION

WITHOUT HIS PARTICIPATION.

2: MASFERRER IS DISGUSTED WITH TOUSSAINT AND JOSEPH TOR

HAVING CUT HIM OUT OF THE OPERATION. AT ABOUT 11:DD P.M.

WITHAL B

CONFIDENTIAL

see sacea

ESA NIC

CUSTOMS BORDER PATROL COAST GUARD

BULA

AD/1 2 9

TREASURY

FBI

09

ISN'S

---

## Page 3

4-00000

TDO: 08-515/01477-1040-

DNAICENTIAL

ON IT NOVEMBER 1964, AN UNIDENTIFIED MASFERRER MAN ARRIVED

'AT THE MOME OF TOUSSAINT AND DEMANDED MONEY, HE THREATENED

TOUSSAINT WITH A PISTOL.

3. ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS MASFERRER TELEPHONED FATHER

DIECO MADRIGAL ALVAREZ, ASKING FOR AN APPOINTMENT TO SEE HIM.

EACH TIME FATHER MADRIGAL TOLD MASFERRER THAT HE WANTED NOTHING

TO DO WITH HIM AND THEREFORE THERE WAS NO REASON TO MEET.

4. FATHER MADRIGAL SAID THAT MASFERRER IS ATTEMPTINO TO

CULTIVATE A FRIENDSHIP WITH ENRIQUE ABASCAL, NEW YORK REPRESENTATIVE

OF THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANA (MDC, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC

MOVEMENT), IN ORDER TO RENEW HIS INFLUENCE WITH FATHER MADRICAL

THROUGH ABASCAL, MADRICAL SAIO THAT ON 18 NOVEMBER ABASCAL,

ACCOMPANIED BY ALUREANO BATISTA FALLA, MAC MILITARY LEADER, ARRIVED

AT FATHER MADRIGAL'S CHURCH, WHEN THEY ASKED TO SEE HIM, FATHER

• MADRICAL SENT A NOTE SAYING HF WAS BUSY AND UNABLE TO MEET WITH

ANYONE.

5. MASFERRER HAS SAID THAT THE INVASION PLANS OF GENERAL

CANTAVE FAILED BECAUSE ONLY HE (MASFERRER) KNEW HOW TO TRANSPORT

ARMS TO MIAMI AND OUT OF THE UNITED STATES WITHOUT HAVING THEM

CONFISCATED BY AMERICAN AUTHORITIES. MASFERRER ALSO BRAGGED THAT

IT IS FOR THIS REASON THAT THE HAITIAN EXILES WILL HAVE TO LET

HIM TAKE PART IN ANY OPERATION AGAINST HAITI.

6. FIELD DISSEMS CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI

REPS OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, IONS, AND USCO.

KIRBENTIANTO DOMING AND PORT-AU-D NESS,

(END OF MESSAGE)

M Mass b6

---

