# 104-10228-10002

## Page 1

104-10228-10002

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE I

11:14

WH/4/PA-PROP •

4935

8 FEBRUARY 1962

PA":

1606

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-A-E-T

19-129-2512

POUTING

TO

1624

arouns totali

No co AnnAl Valua.

Destroy.

NI dle lala copy de indlested

ranch dory dira fe indient

• Indering oh

started to

95EG 52 21 • 48 2

FROM,. DIRECTOR

CONE BELL' IO

INCO, COP, WH S, S/C 2

DEFEND CEN

14184320

1O •

HAVE

INFO

4u905

JLIP

RETS 070A-3177%

1. 190 HIOHIS SEPTICAL NOTTVES SHHIND "OREAT TRUST CONPANY" OFTEN

AID DOES NOS DISCOUNT POSBIBILSTY ON PROVOCATION. AMBUD-I SHOUTS AN

CAUTICKED AGAINSE REYEALING DETAILS ADUD FIRANCIROA

&i REQUIET PASBAVOT EEKK FURTHER INTOPMATION

CERNING "NARITY"

THROUGE AMBUD -1 NIO SHOULD BE ABLE CHECK THROUG

JOSE ARRIOLA AND RENATO DIA%.

MARTIN ADDRESS OR TRIPIOUS NUMER WOUL

ESTICAIIVE ISADS,

IF AMBUD - 1

MELTS AGAIN, WITH MARTIE SUOGEST WAVE, I

FEASIBLE SURVEILA, POSSIBIN LOCAI

ODENVY OR POLICE NICH HAVE INTO

REPORT ANY INTO DEVELOPED.

3. TYI INVESTICATION INCLUDED CHRCK WITE BAHAMAS DEVSLOPAINT BOARD AND

BRITISS CONSULATE NETTI

R.OF WEON HAD HEARD OF COMPANY OR NARIIY.

END

CE MES&AOR

WH Corments

*Reference provided further detalla of an ofter by the "Creat

Trust Compary, Babanao,

Ltd." to offer credft to the CRC for

purebase of boate and other military and naval equipcent.

To after by be at a May tie oracy or Men Karean.

J. 10032)

C/1:5/4

•ДОМО ОРДІД

N3/4/5311

120%

13890

BEC-ENT

A 4

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

STARNARD N. SHORI

C/HIL/4/PA PROP.

Copy Mo

---

