# 104-10176-10013

## Page 1

104-10176-10013

SECRET

(Man Palled 8n)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SURICT OF ICCUMENT

ELLIESCE

2 (Yuri RASTVOROV) Report

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE AD.

44

9 :

MISPATCH CE SOURCE BEE. SYMBOL NO.

DATE

2д.

FIA 2613605- BATEOR MATO TO. EVALUATION

18 Feb.

5,4

SOU •E CHUPTONYM ".

*. DATE PROCESSEO

ID- DISZEMINATED 8Y

DGUMENT DISPOSITIOY

ARFEROED T. THIS FILE

9 #-

SHINO, So MATiND

PERTINEST INFCORATION.

Train fed here team 2013) pies of mend interrogation Report

It is recommended that these

nts be distributed as follows:

FE

REDSOX

REDCAP

Registry

2

2

One copy of this report is being transmitted to local ODOPAL. It is not

ilated ltat this report will be disseminated in its entirety to any otber non-

unit although it will probably be shown to interested officials of ODACID

dvise you of any further fuii or partial dissemination of this material

Is/ Robert C. DAMIEN

intelligence Officer

08

ield Interrogation Report Number I

i February 1954-

sure

Il: Intelligence Operations -- Specific

ILE THIS FORA. IN FILE NO.

18 589

SECRET

RETURN TI

SCIA

Background Use

• Not Reproduce®

---

## Page 2

schi

CONTROL

U.S:.

OFFICIAS ONLY

1: 30 tie.

DI-2072

FZi

Copy

Page

76, Jouros sarilmod that a jostor Guil, a Japaroso orrunist Farty necies, 1ao

iling

MY Stire 'assud 9is sussested to source as a larmaro teacterla, 51a

iP": (see bolon",, and sruce later recruited his sa azunt. Mon sourse vers beck

@ 330: 18. jearrier 1946, ho turned X'S UNO over to 11199131, 1o in cars pasood his

Pid. ähen itiri in turn went back, in Soptember 1952, YOSHriO has reta mer to cource

B: 111ng.

7. 1:017 1ar with the japanese Kission in Harbin and is ros emloyed y he

I MILITO J..

it iovlots biliora i.l De has an arent to: the infaress Police,

¿ was pair; a sepuric shielly animosilas, shite and forjet, in Icio!?, So was

salary of 733,000 per canta.

(a) Yer:, a patrior at Jotason air Force j9s0, no recolved 85, LOC 0$

Yor'i @'s dilary, Ho has suanitcon full pians of connson Air Sase and

once subnitted mineograph stencils of secret travel orders.

(b)

85,001 of YASHINOIs Bilary. Io his subritted piara of Tachilo Air 3000

and are brought in tra!nise alds dasigned to be used with staden: train"

ine sircraft, His information was considerod Inferior. (TOrIA; has a

rifo, age sbour 40, uno 1a believed to do althor a dressane: or s callos

runile a shop near Tachilana dir Eage.

(6) Multinia), employod in the justom Office as tha Part of s0to?22

(PaRTla) has providod charis ant soundilig dale on Jade harbor. He staye

witl. :üsf710 rben he comes to j08j0.

No he bres sured until last among tha japanese panto, alnce ho 1o half Pinalas

iIrculatos song the russians treated balon (ditor).

mably of lie Japanese language (54160r).

lanet ore occasion Y091:1'O also reported on a Misalon rember - 311% 'I3V, an

alacdon Mich Musa: 500g.

setor polat, source atatad that-Do Dellored (MANIN) vorted to 6 COUNTalA

• In Kote.

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

0068

POR SECRET

CONTROL

D3-2072

PIP./2

Page 36

F.S. OFFICIALS OH

O• TeStInO aluo rocrited his nile's brot'er, & Jaman Cormoist Sary camber?

meritreat, Künin Is a bookkeeper and works er ste itsen i arti, strich unad do run be

"ass dapan and India bit possibly nou plies tures, dapar, ind the Unlead States, (TRA.)

is egorvod for esurrency use as a courier and has not been dead to ra's 26

JAPAN OOHAULIE: "NOT (12 = 70 303)

•-Lies am Xoshida. Darco, lisa tas raceit i anvelopes from the farty which dipliario,

•i transla ed ths ordhary JoP inusligence recoug, doeg not sce.

2?, Source trirsiata: sono decuments rec ives from he Partr from inoltan intr

151197; SeVeral o'ble", which coroned cor., seitaro preparationa toy che Americans,

wess bellered fairicered and so 1-f=med

dal. Source roserseTs another document

a 'm alligones activitieg a. the Anarian inà sey in capan; 18 suated that alnost all

"nast: sificials were sodes and orderid lla dianese idit-eitt about.

Source and

Ri, Ki? l NIRIN cautioned senders of ene laston now to toll ic pospers that the:

•Issia: lus cihea irtelllzence chame's and a -uts.

OTTOM UNTAU DTAU 2.L9lJ8S

Pi. Source knew

of no liorth insan agenis irasss uninow). Sis sine to the Minston

scut une 1953 and nuked for money;"

amrati Arcorviered hia and garo him 615, 000.227

"o other care at aloud the sare tir with the sare recuest, but vas unsuccessful because

L'e ariangerate "went astrpy".

120 Elsewhero Sourio Bis:es (INill) 19 only a ¿uP smpathiser.

For ta el el contra ever ably hea dropped to the leodor boceet er!

= E:

"ir. "590: 19316840295608

1.e Paarce

Mirecte: that this muth inmit is in the enpios of derican intolfare

-te also states tha: this ,' me dig "prestra on" sita the denior

¡A d0-1º

" sad deloe the !.

tha "'ission 91"

acher dratructing iron tie centur ver rochested ailar he maco hie

visit:

CD SECRET

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

920827

CONTEINU.S.OFFIENILS CHILL

05-2272

CONTROT

FRA

D.3. OFFICIALS SSLY

Copy.

B. SOTESTS AND WHITE BISSIANS

Page 38

87. Ella VOEVODIN has boon useful to the Sovieta du a spotter, altiough

"L'ey auspect hin of being as American azent; ho the many Aserican friendo. Ha

Is tres not usod so an ages. YOEVODE suggested toth Milo vatsuo (above) ard

LISDR (balon) as Sortot agents.

127 X

38. Another soviot Involved In TESTINiC'S CasE WAS RUSANOV

(RADIST), who

reported YOSHITO to bo & Police Informant but also supplied tro Information v.at be

was extremely antinnerican, which led the Center to direct his continued use.

RISANOV WAS OTIERAlLY & IN1 Ary officer but Med She USSY In 1939 and came to lapar.

At the begining of the accipation RUSArCY voluntarily confessed his escapo to the

Misaion and aaked for repe:riation, bit the Mission considered his more relunale as

however, rewarded by being accorded (secretly) Sorist citizenship in 1946. FUSANOV g

current case officer 1e SiTSL'Y3V

• SUSANOV receives about 720,000 per soath fros

the Sorlets, the of his surces, the ane fron tian be received the information on

XIOSITIO, MAN VIEAUSHAKSIT

99. Another Soviet citizon agent mimitiire infomation on the lagiar. colone

In Japan 10 Boris AFANSI%T, who ts recruited and has been handled by SitTi. In

öne instance he spotted arother Soviet agent, & sepanese living near his fomer rosi.

dence on both Street, in Ickyo, who was an engineer for din-inurican contracting firm.

To Japanese had been a prisoner of var in American hands and was strongly anti-

Arerican, alloging that the Anoricans hid nistreated hin His firm was engaged in

military construction vort for the security forces on lkinses, and the Japanese subuitted

22 De dean on ich a 10 To 12280 taken art an are to st

Ho bas overtly been anti- cormuniot and ra-

•ported that the Soviets refused in citizenstip (Files).

228 SAVEL 'NY on handles all Russian Iniormants for the Soviots (Source).

229

officer in the inaris dry.

• (antl-Sortet) In Japan (Mles).

He is an active mmber of the fusalan ational Unier

TUB TICKET

CONTIL NS OFPICIALS CHLE

ESE SECRET

CONTROL

U:B. OFFICINES ONLY

---

