# 104-10163-10129

## Page 1

104-10163-10129

minise

18-18-71

24 Apr1l 1974

HEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT

: DCD Response to the Agency-Watergate File Review

1. A thorough revlew of DCD files disclosed the following

attached items which nay be pertinent to the review. Where no

Information was developed, the fact is so noted.

H. R. Haldeman - No record

John Ehrlichman - No record

John Dean - No record

Eg11 Krogh - No record

David Young - No record

John J. Caulfield - No record

Juan Rigoberto Ruiz Villegas - No record

Hank Greenspun - No record

A181872

A181871

A18187,0

E. Howard Hunt: Attachment A concerns

actions taken to locate suitable employment for Funt -

at the request of the Retirement Affairs Division.

G. Gordon Liddy

17181869

James W. McCord A 181873

Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga

Bernard L. Barker

Only record 18

a warning to DCD

fleld offices to

report any calls

from these men.

Virgillo Conzales- A181874

Frank Anthony Sturgis: Attachment B explains

& call by Sturgis to the DCD Miami Field Office.

•A/61530 e. Daniel Ellsberg: Attachment C 18 the only

record in DED on kilsberg.

RETURN TO CIA

lackaround Use Onl

Do let fleproduce

aan 88018088 58-4-010650.

SESTET

a ng...

i

!

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MUST

SUBJECT: DCD Response to the Agency-Watergate File Review

A120

f. Hunt's 1971 Request on Security Flaps: Not

applicable.

& Other Requests by Hunt: None.

National Election 1972: Not applicable.

1. Mexican Laundering: Attachment D reflects

an action taken by DCD on behalf of OER; we do not

deem it pertinent but forward it for consideration.

J. ITT:

Attachment E contains what we consider

to be all the data on DCD/ITT relationships relevant

to the inguiry.

L Robert R. Mullen and Company: Attachment F

1s two rcquests (1961 and 1969) for D&B reports on

the company.

Both probably were levied by Corporate

Cover Branch.

1.

Howard Hughes: DCD has had close and

continuing relationships with the

=729

21 and the l

since 1948. Both

companies have been completely cooperative and have

• provided a wealth of information over the years.

A careful review of the files on these companies

disclosed no infornation which the reviewer

considered to fall within the scope of this inquiry.

It should be noted, however, that in the case of

24

_ DC has contacted over 250 Individuals

in the company since the start of our association and

29 about 100 in

lover the same period.

The

substance of the conta.i" ranged from FPI collecticn

to sensitive operational proposals. In addition,

there is some evidence in DCD files that both

Companies may have had contractuai reiationships

with the Agency.

In the context of such a broad

29 range inTi

VCIA relationships, it 1o diffisult

to state with certainty that the surfacing of the

substance of a given action would not cause Corgrersional

and/or media interest.

-2-

5/BR

---

## Page 3

SUBJECT: DCD Response to the Agency-Watergate File Review

A172209 1. Robert Vesco: Attachment & contains all the

Information in

DCD files on Vesco.

A 179968

no

Robert Mahcu: No pertinent data.

Charles Colson:

Attachment Il 18 all of

the information on Colso. in DCD files.

Canoel Delanif

CARROLL D. DELANEY

Executive Officer

Domestic Collection Division

Attachments: A/s

SEC.ET

---

