# 104-10234-10013

## Page 1

104-10234-10013

•* 9788

Lo #

2°+0911810.-

CL

•IFiED MESSAGE E

TOTAL :09114

SECRET

OVARGE COPY

• WE 3

& RID COPY

REPRODUCTIO PROLIB TED

T CA

I ST

wE

Tast

SECRET 8916482

PRIORITY DIR CITE

7424

10 KAR 66 16 7 1 777

1119

DESENSITIZED

REF DIR 85729

1o DEN WALKER WAS CALLED TO FORNOTE BY SR. ANGEL SAGAZ,

DIRECTOR GEN OF NORIM AMERICAN AFFAIRS. ALSO PRESENT WAS

SR. PEDRO SALVADOR DE VICERTI, DIRECIOR OF CENTRAL AND SOUTH

AMERICAN AFFAIRS.

2. SAGAZ SAID FORNOFF HAD READ CUBAN ALLEGATIONS OF OLIEN

INVOS VEMENT IN CONSPIRACY AGAINST CASTRO. COMMENTED GOS

AWARE FACT ARTIME WAS IN MADRID ABOUT A YEAR AGO.

• WALKER PEPLIED ACCUSATIONS AGAINST OL TEN WERE FALSE.

A• SAGAZ CLAIMED HE ACTING ON OUN INITIATIVE IN BRINGING

UP CASE WITH WALKER AND NOT AS RESULT ANY COMPLAINT FROM CUBAN

AUTHORITIES®

SAGAZ THEN SAID IT KNOWN OLIEN HAS MADE TRIPS TO BILBAO

WHERE MANY ACTS OF SABOTAGE HAVE TAKEN PLACE AGAINST CUBAN SHIPS

BEING BUILT THERE. WALKER REPLIED NEITHER OLIEN NOR HIS

ORGANIZATION: INVOLVED IN ANY SABOTAGE ACI IVITIES IN SPAIN.

Go

SAGAZ THEN COMMENTED INAT FORNOFF COGNIZANT OF FACT OLLEN

SECRET

AMLASH-I

5

---

## Page 2

14-00000

• .

WISTS IN CLOSE COOPERA ION SECRE

1, ALTHOUGH SAGAT. DENIEN IT WALKER. IS OF OPINION CUBAN GOVI

"SAY HAVE REGISTERED COMPLAINT AND THAT SAGAZ GOING THROUGH

"NECESSARY MOTIONS.*

S. OLIEN NOT AWARE OF SAGAZ-WALKER CONVERSATION UNTIL AFTER

IT HAD TAKEN PLACE. OLIEN TOLD WALKER SAGAZ' LINKING OLIEN WITH

BILBAO SABOTAGE INCIDEVIS ENTIRELY GRATUITOUS. FACI OF MATTER IS

O. IEN HAS NOT ÉEEN IN BILBAO SINCE & MARCH 1954. OLIEN

ALSO REMINDED WALKER THAT QUOTA HAD DETERMINED THAT FIRE ON QUISA

WAS ACCIDENIAL AND NOT SABOTAGE AND THAT QUANTUM/30 MAD EXPRESSED

BELIEF THAT MOST RECENT FIRE ON FISHING VESSEL PARGO MAY HAVE BEEN

WORK OF THE CUBANS THEMSELVES.

9. WALKER SUGGESTED OLIEN MENTION TO QUANTUM/BO FACI THAT

FORNOFF HAD CALLED HIM IN TO DISCUSS CUBAN CHARGES. OLIEN WILL

DO SO WHEN HE LUNCHES WITH QUANTUM/® ON 1B MAR.

18. OLIEN BRIEFED CHIEF PBSWING ORALLY ON 9 MAR.

NEITHER

HE NOR DOM LEAST BIT PERTURBED BY IKE INCIDENT.

SECRE

CFNE 7424 85729 DCM WALKER FORNOFF SR. ANGEL SAGAZ NORTH AMERICAN

RO PEDRO SALVADOR DE VICENTI CUBAY ALIEN CASTRO GOS ARTIME

so: 1-438 780-60510

---

