# 104-10121-10379

## Page 1

104-10121-10379

(

10 MAY 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Cecil TIGHE

OS/SRS

4EI3

SUBJECT

Request for Information

1.

Request information on the following individuals who

are involved in the Garrison Investigation of the Assassination of

President Kennedy:

a. Jim BISHOP

b.. Wayne COOK

c. James Herbert MARTIN

d. Beniamin SONNENBERG

Edgar B. STERN and wif

i. William WOOD

.2.. Jim BISHOP

a.. A Jim BISHOP was the author of a three-pary.

article on Jim Garrison which appeared in the Seattle, Washington

Post-Intelligencer:

b. RID/INDEX references to OS files: Jamca Francia

BISHOP, DOOB: 14 March 1937,, Chicago, Illinole (05| - 192169):

James loward BISHOP, DPOB: 3 January 1937, Gallowya, Ohio:

James Clarence BISHOP (OS# - 57262).

Are any of these three identifiable, with the newspaperman?

3. Wayne COOK

a. Leslic Norman BRADLEY claimed that he flew

from Wichita, Kansas to New Orleans on 23 November 1963

with a pilot named Wayne COOK. i In March 1968 COOK was

attending pilot-training classes for Pan American Airways at

Sin Mateo, California (FBI rcport) •

b. RID/INDEX references to OS filee:

Wayne Birner COOK, DPOB: 22 August 1237,

Ircano, California (OSf - 235134)

on Excluted Irom autiaik

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Wayne Augustus COOK, DPOB: 22 April 1932,

Kingman, Arizonia (OS# - 389652)

Is either of these men identifiable with the pilot.

1.

James Herbert MARTIN

a. James Herbert MARTIN, a motel manager in Dalla:,

Texas became the "business manager" of Marina OSWALD after

the assassination. MARTIN had lived in Dallas since 1956

(Warren Commission Report)

b. RID/INDEX reference to OS files.

James MARTIN, cit USA?, location: Los Angelea

James H. MARTIN, GSC list 1-30-43, p-128

5. Benjamin SONNENBERG

•. On the acknowledgment page of his book Rush to

Judgement Mark LANE states: "I am deeply indebted to

Benjamin SONNENBERG, Ji. whose numerous and invaluable

suggestions have found there way into this volume."

b. RID traces indicate that a Benjamin SONNENBERG

was President of the Public Relations Council in New York City

in 1952 and later President of Publicity Consultants Incorporated.

One FBI report indicates that in 1938 Alfred K. STERN guazanteed

a bank loan made to SONNENBERG.

24

.. CI/OA recorda indicate al

was granted I July 1959 to permit contact with SONNENBER

in connection with Project QKENCHANT. (OS# - 201112)

46. Edgar B. STERN and wife

a. According to Jack N. ROGERS, the committee

counsel for the Joint Legislative Committee on Un-American

Activities of the Statc of Louisiana, Jim Garrison haa been.

receiving "contributions and monctary support" from Mia.

Edgar B. STERN.

b. RID tracos indicate that Mrs. Edgar B. STERN Sr.

of New Orleans is a danghtor of Julius ROSENWALD. Thie

would inake her a sister-in-law of Allred K. STERN. Edgar

Bloom STERN Jr. is apparently a New Orleans TV station owner.

SECHET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

24

c. CI/OA records indicate that Edgar Bloom STERN

Sr. was granted a

on 19 January

1953 to permit his use as a donor for project LPCOIN..

7. William WOOD (aka William BOXLEY)

a. A Bill WOOD is alleged to have been conducting

investigations in Dallas for Jim Garrison. He has used the

alias Bill BOXLEY. Hc 1s possibly identical with William

Clarence WOOD JI. who allegedly had resigned from the

Agency becauso of a "drinking problem" (DOS report, HTOU-80-68,

26 April 1968, oui copy Indicated you receivod i copy)

b. According to other information we have, a William

WOOD of Waco, Texas was the Office of Personnel recruiter

who covered the New Orleans area in 1963. Is there any connection?

Same

Mr. Deala

James W. Kesler

CI/R&A

SEGIET

---

