# 104-10173-10190

## Page 1

104-10173-10190

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

1:10r00,

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

2

PRIOR TO FLING

Fill in

Saut 2 un back Delach back Blap

and formird lo RID

Dastroy leant cover nheal, unless il recorde

agnilicant actero lakes or commento requis.

decument lo RID. AN.

FROM: "

потелонино

-

TO: ACIION BRANCH

RIDIAN

TO AlL ADDRESSErS

PUE IN SECTION I ON BACH IN APPRORMIATE

COMMENTS

TQ.

WISAESE

DATE

Repaireso

1 17 100

18 1a3

COPY BETACHED

3.

CIrL

Врукл

s.

на..

2 2

10.

# 1.

13.

RID N

---

## Page 2

104-10173-10190

DISPATCH

DEPUTY CHIEF. WH/SA

кта

CLULMINCATION

-X.

P'OCISSIMO ACTION

BARKID FOR INDUINNO

NO INDEXIMO MOUSETO

OMY QUALIFITO DESE

CAN NOCE INDRAINIO

CHIEF OF STALLON. INHAVE

SUNRY.P IC/OPERATIONAL

" TRANSMITTAL OF EVALUALION OF ELELD AGENI AMDENIM- 1

ACTION IRONINTO - RIPEREMCES

FYI

FORWARDED HEREWITH AS ATTACHMENT IS AN EVALUATION OF

FIELO AGENT AMDENIM-P.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

ATTACHMENT - H/

EVALUATION

BỤT LON

'BY

AP8

3 DCAHUSA WYATT.

ES COPL

2,1

BRAD 1

Eschren t70

AdoraTion

1031

DISPATON TIMAROR NO NUMBRI

UFGA - 20252

CLALSIPCATION

SECRES

251453

DATE

16 MARCH 1965

201-251853

---

## Page 3

104-10173-10190

-

CONTINUATION Of

DISPATCH

This.4, 10 Mam

ATT TO UFGA- 20252

SEERE!

EVALUATION OF AMDENIM-I

INTRODUCTION - AMDENIM-I IS A 47-YEAR OLD MARRIED CUBAN MALE.

HE WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO

DE CUBA ON 7 AUGUST 1918.

HE IS A GRADUATE

OF PRINCETON UNIVERSITY WITH A BS IN MECHANICAL ENSINEERING.

WORKSO WITH MES FATHER iS A CANE GROWER, RANCHER, MILL OWNER,

CATTLEMAN AND VEGETABLE GROWER THROUGH NOVEMBER 1958.

SERVED AS DIRECTOR OF THE SUGAR INSTITUTE FOR SIX MONTHS TO PROTECT

ITS FUNDS FROM AMTHUG- I•

HE HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH KUBARK AS A

PRINCIPAL AGENT SINCE OCTOSER 1900-

SUBJECT HAS CONSIDERABLE SKILL

IN THE SOCIAL GRACES AND IN THE MANACEMENT OF SUGAR CANE AND CATTLE

RANCHES.

NEW YORK CITY PRETTY HELL ANO FAS INFLUENTIAL CONTACTS

HE IS ABLE TO MAXE HAS AN ANONTO L CONNECTS N SOTH AREAS.

'RECRUITMENT - AMDENIM-]

CONTACTED KUBARK IN CUBA IN THE EARLY

LUMINE MADE CONTACT THROUGH THIS SAME MAN

I KUBARK IN

IGTON WHERE HE MADE A SUFFICIENTLY STRONG

IMPRESSION THAT HE WAS

REFERRED TO UNWAVE AND A REPORT OF HIS

MEETING WITH HEADQUARTERS PERSONNEL WAS PROVIDED.. ON THE BASIS OF

THIS LEAD SUBJECT WAS CONTACTED BY THEODORE R. WINDECKER WHO

UTILIZED HIM AND HIS BOAT FOR A NUMBER OF RESUPPLY AND INFILTRATION

OPERATIONS.

IN NOVEMBER OF 1961 SUBJECT WAS TAKEN OVER BY NORMAN

0. KIGGINS

FROM DOMINIC S. PANTLEONE AND IN SEPTEMBER_ OF 1964

TURNED SUBJECT OVER TO HUGH R. DENDY.

SUBJECT SERVED

UNTIL JANUARY OF 1965.

AT THIS TIME HE REQUESTED

BE GIVEN

HE STATER: THAT HIS PRIVATE

HAO "BEEN DEPLETED AND THAT HE FOUND IT NECESSARY TO ASK

FOR FINANCIAL AID.

HAS BEEN PUT ON THE IMWAVE PAYROLL AT

$750.00 PER MONTH PLUS $ 100.00-FOR OPERATIONAL EXPENSES.

SECURITY STATUS - A POA WAS GRANTED SUBJECT ON 6 FEBRUARY 1961.

AN DA WAS

GRANTED ON 4 APRIL 1963 PER UFGW- 1807•

SUBJECT WAS

THE RESULTS OF THIS FLUTTER INDICATED

LCFLUTTEREOS NOT AND HAS NOT BECH LEVOLVED WITH ANY NON-OOYOKE

AMDENIM-1 IS NOT AND HAS: NOT

INTELLIGENCE SERVICE,

HE HAS NOT BEEN INVOLVED. IN ANY COMMUNIST

HE DOES NOF HAVE ANY: CONHECTIONS WITH ANY PERSONS OR

GROUPS WHICH HE T'S

DELIBERATELY CONCEALING FROM KUBARK:

OF THIS LCFLUTIER WERE GENERALLY FAVORABLE. • SUBJECT'S SECURITY.

RECORO IS GOOD AND HE HAS HÃO NO MAJOR VIOLATIONS:

PHYSICAL CONDITION - SUBJECT APPEARS TO BE IN FAIRLY GOOD

PHYSICAL CONDITION.

HE HAS LET HIMSELF GET A BIT HEAVY BUT IS

THIS FACT ANO HAS MADE STATEMENTS THAT HE NEEDS MORE

PHYSICAL ACTIVITY

TA GET RID OF THIS EXCESS FAT.

OUTSIDE OF THE

WEIGHT PROBLEM WHICH CAM BE EASILY TAKEN CARE OF, SUBJECT APPEARS

CHRONOLOGICAL LISTING OF ASSIGNMENTS -

FROM THE DATE OF HIS

RECRUITMENT IN AUGUST 1960 SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED FOR THE SPOTTING

OF AGENT CANDIDATES, AND FOR THE COLLECTING OF OPERATIONAL INFOR-

MATION FOR PM ACTIVITIES AGAINST CUA:

HIS FI AND CI DUTIES HAVE

BEEN RESTRICTED TO ELICITING INFORMATION FROM HIS MANY CONTACTS

THE CUBAn COMMUNITY.

PRIOR TO APRIL 17, 1961 SUBJECT ANC

HIS BOAT WERE ONE OF THE MOST EFFECTIVE ASSETS

IN THE IMWAVE FLEET.

SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED AS A RiPORTINO AGENT ON THE SUGAR INDUSTRY

IN CUBA AND IS PRESENTLY BEINO USEO II: ATTEMPIS TO RESTRICT TRADE

WITH CUBAN SUGAR AGENTS.

SUBJECT IS ALSO REPORTINT ON THE ACTIV-

ITIES OF OTHER ANTI-CUBAN GROUPS Ill THE INNAVE AREA.

EVALUATION ALLO FUTURE POTENTIAL • SUBJECT IS A VALUAOLE PIA

FOR THE OVER-LLL ACTIVITY A MINST CUBA.

HE IS DISCOURA:EO AT THE

PRESENT U.S.

POLICY MINST CURE ANU TOGLS THAT A MUCH MORE ACTIVE

ACTION TYPE

ACTIVITY IS THE DULY MAY TINI POSITIVE MISULIS CAN GE

OUTAREN IN THE FONT A MINST AMTIN:ON.

1615 COMPLAICLY CICICATEO

1O THE OVERTHROW OF THE FRESENT KO.IME

ARE HIS ENTRIUAL RETURN 1O

ME IS A VERY INTELLI CUT AND HELE COUGRICO MÃN DIO,

tood on

PS

---

---

## Page 4

104-10173-10190

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ISECRE

ATT TO UFSA - 20252 P$ 2

IF CONTROLLED AND KEPT HAPPY IN HIS RELATIONS WITH XUBARX, WILL

CONTINUE TO PROVIDE US WITH AN EXCELLENT ASSIST BOTK NOW

1 AND IN THE

FUTURE.

CASE OFFICER FEELS THAT SUSTECT HAS THE EDUCATION, EX-

PERIENCE AND THE DESIRE TO PLAY A MAJOR ROLE IN THE FUTURE

GOVERNMENT THAT WILL BE INSTALLED IN

CUBA AFTER THE OVERTHROW OF

HE HAS ACCEPTED THE FACT THAT KUBARK AND

ODYOKE REPRESENT THE SOLE MEANS BY WHICH CUBA CAN DE LIBERATED.

BECAUSE OF THIS FACT AND BECAUSE OF SUBJECT'S BACKGROUND,

FELT THAT HE HAS EXCELLENT FUTURE POTENTIAL AS A IMWAVE/KUBARK ASSET.

RECOMMENDED TRAINING - SUBJECT HAS HAD TRAINING AT IMWAVE AND

ISOLATION PLUS CH-THE-JOB TRAINING FROM HIS CASE OFFICER:

A GOOD GRASP OF THE TECHNIQUES OF CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES.

NOT RECOMMENDED THAT HE RECEIVE ANY ADDITIONAL TRAINING AT THIS

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

END

0051-1610

L..

---

