# 104-10188-10469

## Page 1

104-10188-10469

-SECRET

8 November 1962

LIEMPTY Project Ronewal Request

It is requested that the LIEMPTY Project be

2.

It is not anticipated that any training will be

required during the next project year.

This project is primarily a support asset and

is not designed to provide positive intelligenco.

5.

The first LIEMPTY field project outline was

approved for

1959 and

information throuch physical and photo surveillance,

and support of other Mexico City operations, particularls

thoso targotted against Soviet intelligence porsonnel

and Installations.

The LIEMPTY project has continued

personnel

and objectives.

the personnel in this project

nan three basehouses and one photo truck designed to

Moxico City.

his project has been rated in the past a

covering some of the most valuable investigative asset:

available to the Mexico City

Station.

projoct request for renewal indicates the

continued

officiency

of this project.

---

## Page 2

-SECRET

The Station considers that the project is now

operating at to considers does not plan to earn

during the coming year.

8.

H Division requests renewal of this project

ccordance with the project renewal request attache

hereto.

SAET

---

## Page 3

CIA HISTORICA

PELEASA AS SASAITIZED

1903

LIENPTY

1ca

jirge.

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMENT

CWH/3/Mox1do

CWH/ 3

WH/B&F

CHE/Support

WH/ PO/A

CWHD

PROJECT ACTION

TURI DE ACTION

APPROVAL

А61 456648

но.

• 106.3

ARTPASSON

TYHED NAME

DIVISINN

WH Division

TIFED STATION

Moxico City

WH/3

[ 03

]

3°3 "0003

BUILDING

HQ

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISION

?d В

SE

26

03

03

Paul E. Arneson

I. C. King

deR lasso

- apusitz..

p.w.leche.nt

Woxico

++98851098

5940

DATE

8 Pir. 62

8;0%

T6 NOY 1982

11/26/62.

1/ 30/62

DATE

CONCURRENCES. OF OTHER COMPONEMTS

Staff

CI Staff

-3 [03J

_ 21 Dec 6a

5 Dec 62"

21 Dec 62

CONCUR:

APPROVAL

TOTAL AMDUNT

1 Dec 62

APPARUINE AUTHORITY

Aggistant Deputy Director

(Plang)

1980 848 1

30 liov 63

$ 42,900

Titarama

+ Ja... 63

196 3$30,400

193 1

$19.500

DARC

Y tau 63

---

