# 104-10185-10120

## Page 1

104-10185-10120

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCS AGENCY

SULT Santeco Carton CASTBLLAR Sanchez

SO DOREECS DISSEX

LEORY NOW

С: -335/00687-61

DATE DISTR 318 Ages: 1964

NO PACESSA

RETCKENCES

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduco

•DA.

FIED REPORTINO

pters Comments

me following reportias osa of a ceros contamas pessonate

information provided by tha soured and facludos supplemeatal

icformation fron. the records. of this Agency

Its roguosted that the addressees tiko no ac-loon asy

of the jadividals mentioned i she parsonality reports

without first checking with this Agoncy.

1.:.

Benigno Carlos CASTELLAR Sarcbez tas scon in Cuba by source

prior to April 1201.

PrOVICUSY CASTELTAR waS in JeriCo

on behall of she Direccion Genoral de Intoligencia (General

Directorate of Inteligence - Dol 11s rotenouros

sure if he was chief of the

Herco, bus he ms at

least a Dol officor there. It is bolzoved that be is still

connicted with the Dod:

2 Cose to do back tarama she begs. 0,3.1,5,0,700

pounds, has a swrong build, black

and back eyes.

Headquatiers commetts

The records of this Agency reveal that on the sig o

7 Septembor 1958, one Benigro CASTELLAR Sarchez, pessab y

Identical with the above Subject, was ore nf

twenty-seven

Cubans attending a nesting at the home of. Emilio Alfredo

de Jesus ARAGONES y Navarro, a. Cubaa exile, at 130530

• 25, dexico, D. F.

This information is documentary.

2.

•A source,

untested,

in a report dated 29 October 1962,

stated that one Beriguo CASTELLAR, the Cuban Carercial

SAST

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEU

STATE

I ARMY

I NAVY

I AIR

FET 21

REY CINCLANT CINOSO E FRIS

(Nopo: Fa"s curribution indicated by "=*)

вад

2

40.9N

3/54505: 1H815/R

I DELUIDR

17I,4

3/рV

HE 1 (2,, CI%,

RID 1

114160N#

201-720559

099781T89F:0: F717.799

13-537; 21-2533

O PROJECT 64.

2SCI-316, 00057-5%

ing 1951

---

## Page 2

14-00000

WooipRinsy:

yn00.591"

CrubungeFi"e,

---

## Page 3

SECRYT

-NO

FOREIGS: DISSEN

7 .

Attache in Mexico and possibly identical with Biniano Carlos

CASTAR Sanchez, was responsible for buying products in

acxico for Coban'use

10 Cobruasy 1903, roport stated that Braigno CASTEl haChe

as the Cuban Contercial Attacho an mexico and a suspecto

0-2 Agent.

Bondsno Carlos CASTELLAR Sanchez, Cuban Connerical Attache

doparted soxico for Habana via Cuban Airlines on 22 March 1963

with his wito and child Ho stated that ho expectud to roture

to Lexico. This intormation was recetved on 25 Xarch 1963,

Iron a fairly reliaule source.A roport dated 13 June

1963, stated that CASTELLAR roturned to Mexico on 4 June 1963

A usually rollable source, In a report dated 17 June 1963;

stated that Bonigno CASTELLAR Sanchoz, tho Connorcial Attache

of the Cuban Eubassy in Moxico and in charge of buying, ws

beins roplaced.by oscar. CoNCEPCioN Mendors

expected to arrive in Mexico City on 17 June 1963, and

CASTELLAR planned to loave fiftoon days later

•Tho foslowing biographic Information on Benigno Carlos CASTELLA

Sanches was reccived by a representative: of this Agency in

•dexico in a report dated 2? June 1963:

Benigno. Carlos CASTELLAR Sanchez; the Comercial Attache

át the Cụban Embassy 1u lexiço,

was born about 1910g.

Me carito passport number. D/62/479.

His wife, Ada

MoRTIke" Fernandez de Castellat,

carried passport number

D/62/528 •

His son,

Rafaol CASTELLAR MARTISEZ,

carried

passport number-D/63/4.

CASTELLAR arrived in Mexico

on 27 August 1962, and resided

at Alvaro Obrezon 123-605,

A usually rollable source with good accuss. to travel informatión

reportod that on:27 August 1963,

Benigno CASTELLAR, diplonatica

diplomatic passport number

8..

In a report dated August 1963, from & group. of Cuban emigre's

rained in the techniques of information collection and who have

provided useful reports for two years, provided the following

Information on Benigno CASTELLAR Sanchez:

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DiSSEM

---

## Page 4

SE CRED

SO FOREIGN DISSEN

A Commurical

born about 2957h

1s fivo feet ten arches tatu

pounds, whiter with black natt andiblack eyes:

has a strong assetic build and more a largo

Noứt

well isranadd austache.

aulet, discreet;

oyteruuer4 30s 0180 ayes

and IntolMent eat and was trequently

In the company of Carlos ROpRECitz augetin He wa

an actave member of the Depate-egato de Securidad

del [stado (Departmen.

of State Securisy DSE) unt11

ho was appointed Commercial Artache. He was always

arned with a pissol.

LEASA

SECRE

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

"ase

---

