# 104-10185-10092

## Page 1

104-10185-10092

M69 2981

min

Side Cosar ALicON Fonseca

DiTE D. STR.

NO. PAGES

RSFERENCES

CS CI-:0/ 01206-64

15 September 1964.

2

RETURN TO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Pinea da

washing:on,

D. C.

196÷

"TA iS UNEVALUATES

18524ATIO.

FIELO REPORT NO.

APPRAISAA OF CON

ENT IS TENTATIVE.

i formor Cuban IS officer woo served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 196z.

Ferdquartors Comments

nie following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by ite source and includes supplemental

infortiation iron the recoris of this agescy.

I: is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the indivicuals neationed in the personality reports without

first checking with this agency.

Source ideaiified Cesar ALAACON Fonsees as the

plane on til cabana/Canada flight on 21 dortl 1962 9,2,3,4, 86La

Zaadquarters Comments

1. i report dated 28 Octoba: 1959, from

a falrly reliable source

stated that the Cuban soverent was planning to purchase

many as 100 1IG-1S's and included in the purchasins mission

were Cesar ALARCON Fonseca, ¿ Cuban aviation company pilos

and protege of lajor Raul CASTRO Buz, and Captain VIctor DilA

an officer of the Fucrzas dereas Revolucionarias

(Cuban

Revolutionary gir Force - FAR).

2.

Ärother oftice of this agency,

in a report dated doril 1960.

reported that Cesar ALliCON

Sonseca received pilor trainirg

anust 1955 in Cuba lor Cuband Airlines, but was considered

only an average pilot.

24

3.

On § August 1960, an f

Tinformed anf: her

office of this Agency

Tthat Cesar

ALARCON, newly appointed

Chiet of Operationszet The Cubana

SECRET

NO FORZIGN DISSE!

STATE

312

1 A299Y

A: i

A3.4

AFBI 2

53P

CINCLANI CINCSO =

„Nier: " eá cilia-lian indicated by "==*-)

13/3:422115252

2261

"s:

NO PROJECT(.OTG11)

_C5C1-316/0-205-018

COOINEN FESTY

TOTA=S

i SA 7 (1); HE 1 (2), CIA, AID 1

16 4 1965

+n 890951

5;.0v

---

## Page 2

5.

6.

Asilies Ofico, international Alrport, Now York, 15 an fact the.

int desident aunt for the Cuban Intolligence Scrvico

in the Ne

*01: 2103.

iLicoy is an old enployee of the Cusal Airlines and

¡LOT aS: CO-TilOt. AARCON is & sonor of the Cuban Partio

Popular

His -duress in for Yor: City was the Cenzury

Hore, Ill fest soth Street.

Aroáber of a croup of Cuban onigros trained in the techniques of

collection reporter, In Octobor 1961, that Ceszr

mineos was a Connunist who holds a high position at the airport

11 labana.

The following blographic Infoimation on Cesar ALARCON Fonseca

was receiyed fio:

several sources during 1962:

ALA?CO: wes born on 10 October 1925 In Ortente, Cuba.

ard a castain in the Cuban Rovolutionary Air Force.

scout six feet tall, 185 pounds. is a nulatto with blond hali

and blue cyes. He was doscrised as. & dedicated Marxist and

Communist in Cubana Alrlines and vory anti-United States.

has also been describod as boing a Marxist and a Connunist

Iós convenience rather than by conviction. In October 1962

he reportedly left for Pussia to attend i course in handling

Soviet civilian pianes.

in untesied source, in a report dated 13 February 1964, stated

that Cosar FARCON

Conseca, Chief of Operaiions

Ior Cuban Airlines.

at the Rancho Boyeros Airport, 1s a Communist and very close to

Raul CASTRO.

SECREI

NO FOREIGÍ DISSES

---

