# 104-10119-10015

## Page 1

104-10119-10015

CONFIENTIAL AN

FROM:

INCIDENT REPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE 21 December 1968

TIME 1700

NAME Ferbert WYCTN

Hew York City

INCIDENT Telephone Message

. GRADE.

NA

_ OFFICE.

I/A

TIME

1625

PLACE New York

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: At approximately 1625 hours, this date, SUBJECT called

requesting that a message be passed to Nr. Lawrence Houston, OGC.

SUBJBeL

stated he has Mr. Houston's home phone number but believes the message

should be passed through chanels.

Mr. Itkin ruquested that Mr. Houston

contact him on 269-2512 In New York.

indicated quite strongly that he did not wish to speak to ITKIN, and gave

the undersigned the following reason for this. Mr. Houston stated that

UKIN is the star witness in the Sapio case, and at this time is attempting

to claim CIA affiliation. Mr. Houston stated that ITKIN was an informant

to the Agency at the time his testimony covers, but that he is trying to

blow this arriliation way out of proportion. Mr. Houston requested that

IKIN be advised that the ODO was unable to locate Mr. Houston either in

the building or at home, but to advise him that Mr. Houston's office was

contacted and advised that a check will be made with the U. S. Attorney

on Monday concerning his case. A return call was made to ITKIN who accepted

ACTION TAKEN: As stated above.

03

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD SEC PrOS

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

COPY:

SOM 1798 MINTERR

GEHTEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3/g

*CONFIDENTIAL

1381

---

