# 104-10171-10012

## Page 1

104-10171-10012

DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force n

QLASSITICATIOPA

S-E-C-R-E-T*

3

PROCESSING

mates pol calling

| ng

WAS ARTES DESA

CAN AT TENN

+4, 161 0

Chief uf Station, JNTAVE

sari Operational/GYROSE KUCAGE/ANHINT/RUTUBO

Debriefing uf ANHIST Safehouse Ouner

AT AT RIGUIRLD REVERINES

RETURN TO CIA

Action:

Ref

FTI

and files

WAVE 3911

Bäckground Use Ohly

Do Not Reproduce

0t.1. FOn 24 May 1962, At about 1230 hours local, JHAVE debriefed

for gengral PW aspectsland corfirmation

of the

independent infiltration operat/on_ef AMIIINT-53 and ANHINT-40 by the

Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) on 20 May 1962.

06:06

Subject was

Don 23 December 1905 In Jovellanes, Province of

"Cuba was

Watanzas: Province. In Slant, he 1e

temporarily residing a

Subject does not

plan to retyrn to Cuba during the present Pegime.

(LEONis representative of the middlc-class, saall town Cuban

official with noderate poltica ginterest and ultimately conservative

and Pro-PBPRIME.

He was mayor

Jatanzas_Province from

1954 to 1958, a period during white the BATISTA regime both

flourished

declined, although subject does not profess to be "Batistiano".

He probably contributed very little to the opposition of BATISTA and

by the same token contributed very little to the opposition of CASTRO.

is currently owner of the small dwelling at the

above address and

loaned the shelter and facilities to AUllINT personnel but without

RESTRICTED TO.SAS/miRE-PRiP

JUN 1 1 1552

Dilertribution:

3 - C/TFM AT

RAin/Mers.

Eith or prosest and t

Crasao94-132-16/3

908163-425/58

CS C

S-E-C-R-E-T

19-194-2613

1223

DATE MELO

30 May 1962

DISPATEN SYPIRA, AND ALRIDER

LFG1-4216

MEADOLURTERS FILE NUMBER

19-120-19/3

JaM : 1552

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

_DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA -4210

partielpating in their operatiors.. This was done more for reasons

of family ties and sympathetic attitude toward student activities that

la traditional in Cuba.

Needless to ony, however, this ié a modest.

declaration on his part since she typo.of aid he had been lending with

out rescrvation is punishable by death or imprisonment for all or

any members of his immediate fanily.

Subject related the exents of 20 May In his small beach

resort village as follows:

"At about 10:00 P.M. on Sunday, 20 May, he and his family had

returned to their house, which is located about three blocks from the

Parque Infantil ISIT where the townfolk were dancing and celebrating

this traditional date..

Shortly after arriving, they heard gunfire

in the general direction of the beach.

This was described as mixed

nutomatic fire and single shots.

There was much shouting and confusion

in the streets of the town near the park, and_

enture out and learn the source of the disturbancolhen ANHINT 55O

appeared in the doorway, dripping wet. and panting. Behind him,

AMHINT-40."

"After recognition and eschange of explanations,

unpacked onc

for dry clothing and sent the

heir bathrook to change and remain concealed until the commotion die

revolutionary decree.

After the two ANHINTswere settled,

his house and went out to send the pre-arranged coded cable to miami

confirming their safe arrival.

They slept in his house that night and

departed early Monday morning for Havana."

"Al though the Obt

_fanfly has a reputation for political indifference:

precautions were made for trarel in which the two-man team traveled

no read de on the trip and instatintion hang avana renone. ror

"Prior to departure Varadero, however,

Militia Post to turn over the keys to his house and process his de

During a forty-minute walt there, he overheard conversationg

From these conversations, it was apparent that

the Militia patrol encountering the beach operation reported the clash

as "escapees": that two or mor, were killed and the bodies taken with

the other escapees: that there vere no militia casaulties: that there

was no inkling that an infiltration operation had taken place prior

to the patrol encounter."

"When queried as to militia casualtles since the DRE had reported

that at lenst two had been

"dripped" on the beach, subject comnented

one does not shoot a militiaman down that easy.

On were just dropping to the ground at the slightest sign of action'.

Twas certin that if as much as one man had been scratched the

whole town would have known about it by norning."

was very vague and lacked details concerning his knowledge

of propaganda in Cuba. He recalled that the radio program with Juan

AMADOR Rodriguez on longwave at midday was popular and heard by many

of the townfolk.

He remarked that they listen to a 5:00 AM and 12:00

noon shortwave program coming from Key lest, and finally, that the

Voice of America shortwave broadcasts were

very effective in his

region. He never tuned in to Radio Las Americas and instantly associated

it with the former "Radio Swan" repeating the usual hearsay that "it

was discredited"

19-124-861

i0/TV

423+49

1;49J6

.2::4.68:0N

S=E-C-R-E-T

-sr010

PAGE AS

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA-4216

Although subjert mas obitously not a cond

sourse for militory

OB or other intelligence peservations, he did provide

sore fragmentory

information on his area.

Ho described a place known as' Lomas Finne,"

located between Cardonas and Calisco (10 miles South) pointed out on

about 22569-51186.

There is a Militin Post there with

about 500 land 600 statloned there for short periods.. He observed some

tank movement, about six to eight tanks

trascling in and out of this

area at a time, but could not deseribe them as to type or size. He'

described the militia personnel in this region as a

"Very low type"

of Cuban which nas disgusting to the local country people and there

was continuous frictlon..

He compented that it was just such camps or

post. as this that turned the general population into oppositionists.

About 17 or 18 May, subject observed a large freighter unload-

ing cargo in Matanzas harbor.

The local people described it as Russian

subject could not confirm or deny this.

The shipment was large,

and in various size crates that were trucked out of the dock

area in large convoys.

Nenr a village known as Palmillas (2238N-8045W) about 10 miles

Southeast of Colon,, Province of Matanzas, subject reports that there.

are two guerrilla bands

of trelle to twenty men each.

During 15 to 17

May, these bands attauted farms orcupied

by militia, killing one

militlaman and

running the others off the farm. They burned the house,

barng and destrojed the farm equiprent.

Again on the l8th of May, one of these bands attacked another

militia post and killed one militia.

This particular incident came from

no doctor ten peared geliciasan prior his death and who li a

personal friend of

Subject concluded the interview with some of his opinions

and observations

concerning the state of

public morale in Cuba

He pointed out that much of

the population,

mortler people" today.

the country, understood the United States position on Cuba.

Implication being

the reason for United States fallure to take direct

action or intervention

in Cuba.d

He said the people understand that

CASTRO is their own doing and that the United Stutes cannot be held

responsible for his presence.

He described the frenter part of the

populace as sick and tired,

undernourlshed, disgusted with blatant

propaganda lies, terrorized by repression but ultimately disposed to

resist at all costs.

That 1f arms were generally available among the

populace,

especially rifles and ammunition for them,

CASTRO would have

been overthrown by now, aithout a bit of outside help.

That the farmers

and some city folk,

in desperation, leave their homes to join the

gucirilla bands with no hope for supply and many times turned down by

guerrilla leaders who cannot supply

their own band as it is.

departed with the reminder that the "Cubans traditionally prefer to

live good or not live at all."

END OF DISPATCH

190154-56/3

pacit

NO

10818

1s 590

-ASSICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

Liftiants

3

---

