# 104-10181-10049

## Page 1

104-10181-10049

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

EX - 786

5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: "American Defectors to the USSR"

1o The attached matcrial was part of a soft file entitled

"American Defectors to the USSR", which was set up by SR/6

(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR componenta

The compilations were derived from a variety

of sources, and contain both classified and overt data.

2. In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to CI

Staff. In most instances, basic information was then abstracted

for the US Defector Machine Program, In all instances in which

has bern was unique in represented a valuable collation effort

• along wit

3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should

03

Orig - CI/MRO

1 - RD/FI

1 - SB/RMO

1 - C1/R&A/

1 - CI/R&A/chrono

J03

SECRET

261-187527

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKtI

0÷15

CLOSESA Fladinir, 22-237927

my 2:21,

C7s ast ned to faint at Camp there went bernary

All itenr through 19 irch 1if3 cone iron Cirito files.

not a sen imortare on

or to rection Wrote rected are roast at cont, trous

wife retorted thnt iot before defection i had been very depressed as had.

lost a lot of none: carolie.

'ві, a.d...

....

easers were pres sably

enotionel state and lact of irmy counter ensures galised by arrest of 15u

i arents recently.

he also hac marents intS...

te reccived soviet cit-

izenship sone inc that sale month, accordine to a july 1961 press article.

27 Aurust 1060.

Reuters reported interview iith him on 'oscon TV: usual

expose of lo so activities in rest Germany, Us-is-a-armonger line, etc.

Lone type thin was also jut out in press relersec at this saie period.

his past history an deiritlin on Intell mois duties in test vermany.

19 ovenber 1960. His britis! wife silliin and their three children, sio

had returned to England after his celection, sailed fron lonuon for menin-

Erad on the LAtili to Join iim.

Late lovenber ICé0, Their arrival t'er hin into cossternation, because

he was aireacy havin second thor to about his cecision io defect.

Circa Lecenher 120. ife cororted by letter to tie iritish libassy

"occo:, inicating nor presence in L'vov, where he hod been resettled.

3: 1v 1961.

The el issue of Histi i lirainy had an article in the sane

propanana a vein: his past, "S intell activities, etc.

Indicated he had seen

• oviet citizen since angust 1960 ani was livin in ivor. life later reported

reened quite content

His pareros lived with thet in sue mirtent: seven people !

exit

Early 1962. Still no action on her exit request, but she afraid appeal

to brit bit in fear di reprisals. she called at trub re hor exit and filled

them in on events to drie.

Inte is quite chare from her der are at de ashame Stree

Into Her. s2. Er::

21 varca 1962. Le eccouparded ire and you eut child to arit sab asa,

afraid to to to IS zibass:, was interiesed in Erit i by is end Lect dos.

he sold he mine in to e sit aror mud an eat rendi arwi

•ife had been issued vorit internal pasagart iur forei nara, on basis her

i allis

SELMET •

. *:

261-257527

---

## Page 3

SECRET

irit sessuer: and no celers l? regrest.

tie oldeck and your-est

chiliren wore on nor for cocunent because on ter trition rescort, but the

midle one had been bor. in the i

vas a lo, citien, an hac an exvired

!'.S. passport.

ine hai receied sorict exit-reentm visa valid for 90 days

and did not tell then that she planned not to returne

1 duest 196ê. i British noassy recrecentative enlled on nir in i'vor

where ie was siving iit oldest child.

there was nicole child? ind jourgest

If aidn't accomary nother to üngland?)le "had reen sojected to fairly fre-

quent questionings to the icE in i'vor since he risiter. the babassi in roscow

An Anerican acquaintance no ms in a similar position

ant had visited the saerican -toass, , had been taken

off for questioning by the 1GB Imediately on leavin; the building."

9 narch 1963. lie was interviewed by factallet malliax, bueland, when

living with notier. somewhat an asonistic

to interviewer and told him she

had nox deciced ratrickers it her duty to return to the USSR and felt that

they would lst her.

it'sband had wired saying be sendire oldest chilo out te

her, but she had vired back sajing not to.

It ras at this intervier that she

said he had seened content with his lot, sopcared like job as transter

translator/librarian at L'vou Polytechnic Institzte, and seemed like living:

with his parents.

SEGRET

УДД

---

