# 104-10006-10295

## Page 1

1104-10006-102951

FROM:

BRANd

SR/cI/k

TO

TUBE

5 c

ROOM

RID/INDEX

DT - 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

GT • 7

RID /201

DW- 6

GT • 6

RID/ INDEX /

LEN

/YAKALIEL ,

SPELLING VARIATIONE

• BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

SECRET

[BADGE NO.

BHI TOS

EXTENSION

7735

AVE

INITIALS

1/3)

T64

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

TRID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Inessa

2. 5. IDENTEYING O

DATA Occupation, sex, CP membership

ssad, engies.

SEX DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

ANO PERTHVENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

USES RE

USSR

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENT:

No

tra in pite

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a)

cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for

destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 or

the subject exists.

(a)[ Consolidate into

201-

(b) = Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

ASSIGNEEM

TYES

I NO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

RID

DESK

Note 2.

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

NATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

