# 104-10227-10048

## Page 1

104-10227-10048

DISPATCH

chier or station, ittis

5-üai-t--1

d. "1r6

4: 8.108.89.,0895

20043

chief, bestorn Merlandoro

117131o0

PARSAVOR Reporta

Ails As lodicatod

Hoadquartera apportates Cha very comploto and detailed reporta

recolved fran PASSAVOY concorning his solingo with ANDUll and leaders es

renter organizations.

FALLATUT la to be cormended lor sia hundling of

Ar:WI-1, hia quick grasp of lia inportance of socurity, and hio excollout

reporting.

20.

leadquartors 1a susro of the Station's ahortage of personnal,

particularly in the stenographic staff, but suggeste that, Jasofar as

posalblo, PAISAVOY's roparto la sapurated ly subject. If notes dealing

with propaganda, for example, could be submitted soparately fron those

daaling with parantlilary mattora, 1t would expodite and amplisy

distribution at loadquartera to appropriate action alamento. When

fossible, osparate dispatches for monoranda dealing with each subject

would be appreciated.

It 1o roquested also that an original and tho

coples of each senoranda be forvarded.

3. It 1a notod that severei of PASSAVOY a reparta contala racommendationa

or requeste for inforation on shich to bara & coply to AloUDl. In 809

Instances 1t 18 not clear whother the station has taken action, or whother

1ê la expocted iron Headquartera. It 10 requestod that the Station's

covering dispatch stato clearly when action by leadquartera 1a desired.

END OF KESSAGE

Distr1baatlons

2 • COS, JAWAVE

CS ELLE CUPY.

1 - WH1/4/PA-PROP

1 - 41/4/Rogistrg

Crass disince To

as as e

CLASMIRCALTON

S-ik-2-i-T

W: T.

180R: S1R91ak

+ 0/th/4/FA-F30P

FC0H/4

1 Quebr

DATE TIMD-

1 Docambor 1961

INSPATEN SUMNON AMD NUMBER

UFCH 682

HIAIQUANTERS FUL NUMHR

19 -124 -25

ORIGINALING

167951

CONDINATI:

3e I. Harrison

4936

C(AHD

LATE

I Sacke

RETFAUNG

---

