# 104-10146-10216

## Page 1

104-10146-10216*

Office of Legislative Counsel

06678-1717

2-2078

20 March 1978

Tony:

I have gone back and forth with Bob Blakey

on the fully and truthfully language on our general

warrant letter to Stokes. I now believe I have

taken out the worst aspect of the reference of the

word truthfully by placing the sentence in the

last paragraph. In my mind then I can tie the

language to those individuals covered by the

letter who might think that they are under a

secrecy agreement but actually are not and never

had a relationship with us. I also then see it

as the quid for the third paragraph as making

clear that individuals covered by secrecy

agreements who seek our guidance in responding

on sensitive areas will do just that and not

use this discretion to mislead. I am willing to

recommend approval on that basis if it is okay

with you.

Lyle

21347

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECTs. (Optional)

FROM:

Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/CER:

TO: (Officei

building)

nation, room number,

and

EXTENSION

1133

DATE

RECEIVED

INITIALS

FORWARDED

OLG REGGND COPY

NO

DATE

116 - 78 - 1204

16 March 1978

COMMENTS (Number noch comment to show from whor

in whom. Draw a line

ocross column after each comment.)

Doris Haudesheldt

OP 4

Tube::: FXZ

Attached is a list of

names from Dan Hardway,

HSCA researcher:

ta" He seeks any address

Intormation so he can

contact them. He will

forward formal request

- but

let's work on

basis of

this

oral request.

Thanks.

Rodger

Rodger ms

15 MAR 1978

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

Registry:

RE: HSCA

Pls note on the attached that the

Committee will send

written request

in

-- SO

at that time it you wan

you can give the attached an OLC number..

610 USE RENOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

Judy

-CUENIIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY -

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

• SECRET •

Contact:

Addressee:

1.

Anne Egerter

2.

3.

05

4.

Prentice Marheine

5. Thomas Keenan

6. David Wilsted

7. Luis D. Puckett

8. Robert Feldman) *3

9. (Glen Widden Jos

10. Frank Estancona

11.

SECRET

21348

---

