# 104-10185-10085

## Page 1

104-10185-10085

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodyce

TO

IRRO

FROM

SUBNECT

DISPATCH

Chief, KUDOVE/D

ATTENTION: James N. RABNEY

IS - 4

ACTION REQUIED

Chief of Station,

LAURICLE

Special Project Of Interest To RABNEY

FYI

REPERENCES)

CLASSINATINA

SECRET /RYBATLE

RYBAT - 1169

[DIRAJ- 25208

SEAT. SIRES FOE AS

DATE

! XX

18 October 1960

- ICHECK' N'ONE

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO IDERING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED.

AT QUALFILD HQ DESE ONLY

1o

The attached report concerns the latest developments in regards to an

investigation which you assisted in ita Initiation sometime ago with the Paris

DALOE representative. During your stay here, you requested to be apprised

f the latest developments in connection with this case

Chestak mentioned in the attachment, for your information, his relation

• Moses (@ Benny) Maschkivitzan, an International underworld figure whom a

recently discussed during your short stuy in Rome,

3. If you desire any additional Information regarding the developments

cited in Attachement or background data on Cheslak, it may be advisable to con-

suit with the Paris ODALOE representative. Cheslak has been tentatively identifled

as Molse Czesjlak (® Maurice Cheslak, @ Maurice The Jew, ® Moise Le Julf, ®

Morris) - white male, born 8 December 1902, of Jewish origin, fair complexion,

wears horn-rimmod glasses, small blue eyes, about 5'10', 175 Ibs, medium-heavy

bulld, brown hair, speaks English with & British accent, former resistance fighter.

Cheslak has excellent inderground contacts in the Low Countries, Germany, and

England. His wIe is an ex-prostitute and madam.

Hend F Clarion

HOW ARD F. CLARKSON

Approved by: HUGH R. SHERIDAN.

Attachment: 1 (for RABNEY)

. Distribution: 3 - Chief, KUDOVE/D, w/attachment

400

---

