# 104-10072-10080

## Page 1

104-10072-10030

REPORT COVER SREET

PROCEOSING ACTION

ФаС#

angela 110r

•вата берІє

REGRET

VED - 0589

DATE OF REPORT

12. 00t0b9r 2968

ROJeCT

COVER ENCOT

MARACO POO INDONINO

NO INDERINA ROQUIRLO

OP# DATA REPCAPEO BOPARATELY

CO DI BARMINATION

SOURCE CRYPT

UQAMBER-6

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

TOCO DIBERMIMATION

PATHA-AGENCY

EXTRA- AGENCY

H9o

DC8

2

2

четь

EDE ATP

Tó out Pouch

State

Custons

USCG

4P

BUNPLENANTAL DATA

DYVOUR JMPALM PBRUMEN

SOURCE

Parao. 1 - 5%

MBER-6, who obtained the information in

He got paras.

204 Pros Maoferror, and para. 5 from Eugene L. MAXIMILIEN.

Paras.

8-8: AMOT Source

from OLEA.

BID: Pleaod

index for field:

P'ALLIEGRO, Anselmito

Sent

DOB

FOD

0aa

?

Cuban

BOR PS ANGelMO ALLIEGRO, fOrner Cuban senator.

Involvement In plans for action against Govt of Haiti

Re Subj's

Croad

roforance

to:

201-042660 (Rolando HASFERRER Rojas)

201-230296 (Manuel RAY Rivero)

201-270456 (Joan Baptisto GEORGES)

201-820665 (Antonio IMBERT Barreras)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

9778

GARD. REPRODUCTIONE

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatio Downgrading

and Doclassification

23

22)

9-34

y-da

1467

100-9-16

1808

COPY

---

## Page 2

00.00

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADINO OF COURCE A Complataly rallabla

#, Usually reliabla

Or Fabrty isilablo.

to eurora el dcubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of thale competenoo).

Banted scuroeat.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENTI

1: Confirmed by other independent and rollable courses lo probably lua d l'esluly trua d Doubiful. l Probably

tataa

# Cannot ba luctged,

COUTIBAATIAL

COLTHOLLED DISSEN

NO FORETON

DISISH

REPORT NO.

DATI: OF REPORTI8 COPeDED 1066

for Astson

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

* Basti

DATE OF

29 Soprember • ? letober 1966

INFO.

PLACE & lead statoo, Hiaal

DATE ACQ (8-10 EURODOR

1000)

UFO- 00060

THIO 1J UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

BOUNCE GRADIMGS ARE DEPINITIVE, APPRAIBAL OF CONTEMY IO TENYATINS.

SOURCE:

setty of Paragraphe & 18

Fonor latin Acarloon diplenat vo

cal enino rolationo mith offiolala of letia farioan contries.

tonna do a trained raporter. Hid inforation has beca railable

da sha pass.

= 20 50 2201-042 1 11021, Flossd

eland that any coate enccoling finda that Patiar Goonges coaid

1221-270459

ca 20 copenhar in lum, beatostir sald that ho had not vich

hel born da Minal to main cantanato Ser ta partice of a

mual for transportion on expoliciency forca to Laiti.

monterest adad that the masad had orcaty beon asgulsed.

Reassier cald that Fastes Cool- 2322) Eralsad 60 este of

un en camisia, Iolello harm li-1 rifles sal cutenatio

for sia tallion rusolutie.

mont san tot da his Fastoror ales nace the following claima:

9-14 rifles,

and bansalad for 600 sea.

53. 20-320655

D. (Canaral) Astealo

most terreras,

o8 to Doziniac Beyablio,

ned pronload to balp.

Conseguently, Mosferror bad soat nan

to the Dosinloan Rapablo.

ATTIAL

GELALOLEED

DISGEAT

10 FOLLION

DI888H

Entested tron esterati

dear tentary Esta

DISTRIBUTION

BEPAOSUETIOAS

---

## Page 3

14-00

COBTROLAED DISSEN

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

U70-0809

Oza 08 Maaferror o nea uno cont to the Denladcan ropabile

carrying a mall quantity of orma and armition bad bees

apprehended by Deninion authorition doopite tha feat that:

tha man had doolarad that the amma vora for colo to the

Influanao with the governent of President Jooquin Balagear.

Father Georges will be the leader of the Haitian "incurreo-

tioa."

Kasferrar cald that in slew of the arrat of hio cuintary in

the Daainloan Republio ho was retuming to les York for a Len

daya until all sas cala agals.

ka added that tha halp of Inbart

and certain othor friendo la

on 1 votobar 1900 Lugone L. Eminition, Haltinn Conoul General

in Miami, odid that Pather Coorgod' violt to Mioni was to nate

a passant for ver natorialo and vosselo purchaood by hasterar.

Maninidion sald that Patha: Goonges had received 41, 000 fros

Paul Magloiro, fornar Presidant of Haiti, about two weeke

earlier and 11,000 sroa Carada. Maziallion said he did not

know who sant the soney fron Canada.

Lorras of the inforation la paragraphs l - 1: A samber 08 a

(mom of cuban calgres trained in the iconiquas of inforcation

colloation. The groap has providad usaful soporie dince 1961.

In late Soptembar Manual Olea, Cubon migre, cald that Madierra

nad broncht hin froa low York to taro part in an oparatio

againg? tha laition rogina.

Olea said that in How York Hooferror

had told him that ho (Oloal could bo chlor of oporationo. Accord-

Ins to Olea, Anarioo respaparton sere with then from the ties

thay loft lon York until they arrivad in Minni, soling notion

pioturas oil tha tina.

" Is roashod that oinco erriving in Mla.

ho had found Manferror' cotivition vary arrango.

Ho added that

ho thought nothing definita was going to take placo, and that

ho had deoldad that ha would not take part in tha proceedings.

I. Oloa cald that than ha had coxod hasteriar for coma sing ret

ratics coating Kaolorrar ind offerad hin sona riflos but ha

told hin tuit ho could hava to buy his ow bulloto..

that noot of tho suno Hooferrar had sore uselese.

Oled caid, ha hed cotiesd that a nan he knew only as Papito"

tas clocaly onscolated with Hasforrar and also trked for tha

Ealison Conoul in Hion:

was thinklos of iransferping his proup so the Dosinion Republle

so had Impalatoly obralnod a Dominican visa.

0. Olen cosplained that Kasferror had given hin only 9100 in Mani,

and that ho had spont about

$550 for roon and board for himsel!

and three others.

Be added that he had had an arguant with

Manferer because the plan was not a serious natter.

Oson'o party had raturned to ley York and did not plan to come

back to Miami.

cor!

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONFIDENTLAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

NO FOREION DISSEM

UF?- 8509

In Jaguary 1966 Manfarmer told & group of

Hold commont'in Miand thet Father Georges was one of

cuban cragras

those contributing financial support to a plan for invading

Hait1. Sea TDCSDB-316/00225-66.

Bourge Comment.

Masferror was probably exaggerating. He

may have equipaont for 250 man.

Fiold Commenta

3. Hasporner has proviouoly claimed that he had the support

of the Dominican Government.

1. Another source has reported on plans for making a film

purporting to ahow efforts of Haitians to overthrow President

Duvalier.

See UFG- 8588.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

