# 104-10218-10108

## Page 1

104-10218-10108

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

DBAG479

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File A'a

2-312

Miam, Florida

APR 1 0 1962

RE:

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES

(INTERFEN)

NEUTRALITY MATIER

Reference 15 made to che report of Special Agent

ROBERT JAMES DWYER, at Miami, Florida, dated and captioned

as above.

MM T-1 has furnished rellable information in the

past.

PROPERTY OF FBI • Thie memorindun la loaned to

you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be

distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

400.9014

201-309125

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MM 2-312.

DETAILS

By letier dared January 22, 1962, MICHAEL L.

TOBIN, Cadet, St. John'3 Mistary Acadesy, Delafield,

Wiaconein, adv.sed chat a friend of his hal received a...

letter fIco GERRY FATRICK, representing intercontinental

Penetration Force and the letter was as followa:

"INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRAZION FORCE

(INTERPEN)

"Dear SiT,

"Thank you for your letter requesting

Information concerning our organization. ve

hive recelved mang lectera such a9 yours and are

pleased to find that there ars thousands of young

Americens that are anxiou: to actively participate

In the fight against Incernational Communism.

"Firet, let me stare that we are an

independent and self supporting organization.

Our primary mission is to provide qualified

Instructora for all legitirate organizations

actively fighting the communiste.

Wo feel crat

Ameriçans would be in a better posizion to defend

their country if they were trained in the ares of

Guerrilla Warfare and Survival. As a self

supportisg unit our presert facilities are

extremely limited and we are accepting only those

veterans that were Special Forces trained as

Guerrilla Wartare Instructors, survival,

parachute qualified etc.

Also we suggese that

prior to an injividuels

leaving his home he should

have already purchased hia own uniforme, combat

---

## Page 3

MM 2-312

"equipment, have a car,

and enough noney to

pay room and board un:il he can be placed with one

of the units under our command. We are NOT

operating

as s conventional force and cherefore

do not have

standard barrack facilities, rank or

pay.

"Coneidering the aforementioned, should you

still be interested in Joining, we suggest that

prlos to your departure for Miani you contact a

you departure ot

local SKY DIVER CLUB (Psrachutista) or ex-

paratroopers, and have then train you as a

parachutist. After your five asujent juapa

you should buy your own equipment (back-pack,

reserve, bocts, helmet, etc.).

The parachute

training and five student jumps should cost not

more than $40.

All of our active members are

parachute qualified and have contributed to che

costs of equippent and aircraft.

"Thank you again for your interest and '1f

you wish to write address all nail to INTERPEN,

C/O GERRY PATRICK, GENERAL DELIVERY, MIAMI, FLA.

"Respectfully Yours,

IS/"Gerry Patrick

"GERRY FAIRICK

"INIERPEN"'

On March 30, 1962, CERALD PATRICK HEMMING, 128

Southwest 8th Street,

Miami, Florida, advised that he

unemployed, temporarily residing in a rooming house at that

address, and continues his Interest in Cuban revolutionary

S220R

---

## Page 4

14-00000

MM 2-312

activities.

HEMMING identified the above mentioned letter

as one of about 60 forn lesters that he wrote and signed

As GERRY PATRICK, the head of INTERPEN.

HEMMING explained that in July, 1961, he and some

of his associates conducted a parachute demonstration wherein

the press was invited and strended, and HEMMING and his

organization

received conciderable nacional publicity.

As a result of thie publicity, letters were recedved

from all over the United States by HEYMING from young

adventurers and soldiers of fortune who were desirous of

joining HEMMING'& organization and participating in some

military action in Latin America.

HEMMING explained that as

a result of a flood of lettere he received, he devised the

above form letter to answer questions about his organization.

HEMMING said this form letter was to give general information

about the organization, to dissuade persons iron coming to

Miami, Florida, to join the organization, ans to eliminate

persons who did not have specialized training or background

for this type of activity.

HEMMING said

that this form

letter sets up a number of conditions that most people

making inquiry would not be able to meet and, therefore,

tended to stop prople from coming to Florida to join his

organization.

HEMMING said that 1£ a peroon net all thee

requirements, he would then write to REMING aggin and in

reply HEMMING would invite the individusl to cose to Florida

on vacation and is he had the talent and ability, he would

be invited to stsy in Miani snd participate in survival

training in the Florida Evergiades.

HEMMING clained he did not consider the above

letter in any way an instrument of recruiting or any

attempt to defraud or use the mails for defraud.

sh no cou to tho

HEMMING said that as a result of press inquiry and hia

---

## Page 5

14-00009

MM 2-312

replies with these form letters, some individuals did

come to Miani, Florida, participate in survival training

In the Florida Everglades, but INTERPEN, as such, no longer

exists.

HEMMING explained that he presectly conducts no

training and 13 asecciased with ROBERI BROWN, a young man

fron Colorado, who 19 In Miant wilting a bock about the

Cuban revolution.

HEMMING 1s taking BROWN around to the

different Cuban revolutionary organizations, helping BROWN

gather Information

for his book.

HEMMING 2a1d he at1ll

maintaina an interest in being available to train Cuban

exiles for sone future military action in Cuba,

HEMMING said that in about the middle of january,

1962, he left Misnt and went to Los Angeles, California,

where he contacted a number of American businessmen no were

Interested in she fiesent Cuban situation:

He tried

unsuccessfully to convince these businesemen to make money

contributions to be used by the Cuban exiles for sone future

action against the present government of Cuba.

HEMMING said that about the middle of Februsry,

1962, he traveled to Mobile, Alabana, where he visited

friend of his named DAMON NAPIER, and was arrested and

Incarcerated by the police in Mobile, Alabass, on tre

charge of investigation and was held one week.. HEMMIN

said that he had previously met NAPIER in Mismi and when

he visited him in Mobile, 1e appeared that NAPIER hed been

Involved with stolen automobiles and checks. HEMMING

said he was interviewed by the Federal Bureau of

Investigation, and after a week of incarcerstion by the

Mobile Police Department, was released. He esid he did

not know the disposition of the charges against or

Involvement of NAPIER

On April 3, 1962, MM T-1,

Of HEMMING, and who has been isvolved in

201-309195

---

## Page 6

MM 2-312

Cuban revolu:fonary activiries

for the past four years,

advised irst INIERPEN nO LOngET ExiS:S, has no Iubers

and tha: HEMMINC 19 not a sender of any Cuban revclutionary

organization.

MM T-l Advised Cist HEMMIN Conting to viale

different Cuban revolutionary organizarions, is tolerates

by these orginizations and

continues to work

for the

establishment of come sort ci a military trining cano there

he would train Cuban nationals for guer illa va-fare 1a

Cuba; however, HEMMING has no noney or backing and no

chance of establishing such a training camp.

On April 2, 1962, ELOY CUTIERREZ MINOYO, 1126

Southwest 12ch Avenue, formerly a commander in che

Cuban

revolutionary arny and presently the head of a exall

Independent an:1-FDEL CASTRO oIganization,

sduised thar

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING had recently visited him, but that

his organization hus nothing to do with hEMMING.

On AprIl 2, 1962, RENE DECHARD, 1176 SouthWeSt

12th Street, Misal, fonzerly che Cuban Consul General in

Tamps, Florids, and prezently active in Cuben revolurdenery

activities against the present government of Cubs, advised

i he pens

that HEMMING had recently vi:lied kin inj tha: HEMMINC

has. no group or ciganization and 19 not acceptable to

leaders of the different Cubin revoluticnary crganizacions,

During isnuary, 1962, the follcwing Ird1visua1s

advised that they had met HEMINe or had heard.of his,

considered him a percenary, and a soldier of fortune and

following the United States Government's policy of not

accepting Americars into their crescizarions, shey

maintained no contact with FEMMING:

ANTONIO DE VARONA of the

Cuban Revolutionary Council

6

Gorgeto

---

## Page 7

14-00000

MM 2-312

ERNESTO DESFAIGNE

Miliary Section, Revolutionary Coure1l

JUSTO CARRILLO of che

Montecrists Organization

RAFAEL RENCURRELL of the

Movinienco Denparatica Cristlans

CESAR BARO OF ErE

Moviniento Recucerscion RevolucicnaIlo

RAUL MENDEZ FIRIZ Of

RESz9tE:

7*

---

