# 104-10216-10316

## Page 1

104-10216-10316

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

: 7147

19 0Cт 54

IATO:

TRUE DIRECTOR

2 10c1 50 2:

€ 3 2

IO. FiLE, VR DAP, AlLER, C/WE4, CEI, C/A12, CISRE

CASTENE

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

DESERBIED YPIC AWHIP MAPRON AMLASH/1

RET:

A.

6786 (IN 89336)

53309

AMLASH-!

B.

6789 (IN 89419)

1. VIEW PARA 2C REY & WISH CAUTION AMWHIP NOT QUERY UNSNAFU/19

ANYTHING RPT ANYTHING IN OFFICE. SUGGEST TELL WHIP IF SNAFU/19

WISHES TALK IN OFFICE WELL ARD GOOD BUT PREFER HAVE WHIP LURE HI.

OUTSIDE FOR ELICITATION QUESTIONS ON PARA POUR BOLEN.

2. PATTERN INDICATES SNAFU/19 APPARENTLY RESPONDING FREELY TO

WHIP•S QUERIES. HAS STA ASKED WHIP WHETHER SHAPU/19 SHOWING ANY

SURPRISE WHIP'S "NEW" INTEREST CUBAN POLITICAL, FORN, GENERAL

AFFAIRS? WISH IMPOSE NEW REQUIREMENTS BUT ONLY ON BASIS OF FERMITII: G

WHIP TO JUDGE WHETHER HE HAS ENOUGH BACKGROUND IN THE SUBJECT TO

- PUT FORTH THE QUERIES AND WHETHER SNAFU/19 WOULD CONSIDER WHIP'S

INTEREST UNUSUAL.

3. INSOPAR AS INTEL ELICITED TO DATE, HOS FOUND IT VALUABLE TO

DISCUSS ALL SUBJECTS COVERED DIR 44416 AND IN TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST

RET A WHILE WHIP HERE. THIS PLUS LATER REVIEN WITH C/O

ASSISTE

WHIP GREATLY SINCE LATTER'S MAJOR INTERESTS COMMERCIAL. RESULTS

EVIDENT VIEW INTEL. DISSEY AFTER LAST VISIT.

COORDIMATINE OFFICE&S

Asser 618s420-3

&0TA

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION BY CIMER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

so-

Copy No

201-252238 ti

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEETET

8 eat:

XX 2c: • ve

-58384

4. VIEN WHIP'S WILLTNGNESS AND CONSCIENTIOUSNESS, WISH CONTINUESAR:

FEASIBLE WITH WRIP ON FOLLOWING:

A. RE PARA TWO RED AL SUGGEST HAVE WHIP ASK TO WHOM FIDEL

MADE THE STATEHENTS ABOUT HIS ERRORS IN RELATIONSHIP WITH ODYOKE,

4.5.6ouT.

WHAT HERE THE ERRORS, WHAI DOES FIDEL INTEND DOING ABOUT THE ERRORS,

41.5. 6en

AND THRU WHOM? WHAT MAKES FIDEL THINK ODYOKE WILL ACCEPT ATTEMPTED

CORRECTION OF THESE ERRORS? (THERE ARE NO INDICATIONS HE INTENDS TO

MAKE CONCESSIONS, ARE THERE?)

B. WHAT INSTRUCTIONS HAS FIDEL SENT RE THE NEW GOVT USSR?

C. WHAT ARE UNSNAFU-19IS OPINIONS ON POSS EFPECTS NEW GOVT

USSR ON PIDEL REGIME?

D. ANY INPO ON DORTICOS RECERT TRIP USSR.

E- MGR OF CUBAMETALES, MAURO (CARRECEDO) DANZA, NOT CURRENTLY

IN CUSA, CAN WHIP FIND SOME WAY TO ASK UNSNAFU/19 WHERE HEIS TRAVELING

AND WHY?

F. NITASH/1 SURPRISED RECENT TRIP CUBA AT NUMBER PERSONS OPENLY

COMPLAI:INE AGAINSI FIDEL. DOES ANTHIP HEAR ANY ON THIS FROM SNAFU/ 19%

G. DOES WHIP RAVE ATY LATER INFO ON ROÀ; KOURIX AND THE NEW.

TRADE OFFICE IN PARIS?

#ELIASINE

€+8886#

COONDINSTINE OFfICERS

SECRET

11 - 8 30

593 9-6-u

FERODUSTION BY OMIER TA:AN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITES.

AUT

MaTine

i Copy No.

---

## Page 3

-і11

"p":, :

1108:9

XX 2 0°mi

10.50

CITE DIR

•H. ANY COGENT BY SNAFU/19 ON NIELOPE'S TRIP HICE?

I. HAS. S¡AFU/19 MENTIONED DORTICOS TRIP TO ALGERIA AFTER THE

MONALIGKED NATIONS• CONFERENCE IN CAIRO? ANY INDICATION CLOSER

RELATIONS BETWEEN CUBA AND ALGERIA? OR USE ALGERIA TO FURTHER

FIDEL'S OBJECTIVES IN LATIN AMERICA?

J. VIEW RECENT REPORTS FROM NIFASH THAT SOVIETS DELIBERATEL!

HAMPERING CUBAN ECONONY BY DRAGGING FEET IN SUPPLYING CUBA WITH

PETROLEM, MISSING SHIFMENTS, TAKING OVER THE CUBAN NATIONAL BANK

AND THERZZY RANDLING FUNDS TO DETRIMENT CURRENT ECONOMY, AS LELL IS

• RECENTLY REPLACINE INEPT FIDELISTAS WITH UNTRAINED AND UNQUALIFIES

CP PERSONNEL WHOSE ONLY VIRTUE WOULD APPEAR BE LOYALTY TO SON U. =

AS FUTURE PEPPETS UNDER COMPLETE SOV CONTROS OF CUBA, WISH: LAV :B" I

REINTRODUCE THIS SUBJECT WITH SNAFU/19 IF POSSIBLE. MIGHT TELL I•

... ABOVE AND TRAT ANTRAL ESCALANTE REPORTEDLY SUPERVISING FOREIGN EX .

TRANSFERS IN BANCO NACIONAL, POSSIBLY HE COULD USE THIS AS RESO

FEARD WHILE AWAY FROM PARIS AS OPENER TO SEE SAT SIAFU/L9 & 'S A...

THE BANK AND THE SOVIETS.

ДИТНЕНТВЕДТОНІ

REPRODUCTICIN SY OTHER THA'S THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 4

....

.....

1%508

::

INES

58388

C:"" Dia.

00202

R. SYLINGO/L SAYS SNAFU/19 CLOSE TO FIDEL AND UNDERSTANDS

AND INTERPRETS LATTER'S THINKING VERY ACCURATELY IN MATTERS RELATING

TO WEST. SAYS SNAFU/19 GOOD PRIVATE LINE TO FIDEL AND SHOULD BE

TAKEN SERIOUSLY. SYLINGO SAYS SHAFU/19 HAS MADE UNFLAITERING

REMARKS ABOUT THE USSR. PLS QUERY WHIP.

L. SINCE THE OAS MEETING AND THE BREAR IN DIPL RELATIONS WITH

LATIN AMERICA, HAS SNAFU/19 LEARNED FIDEL'S REACTION OR FUTURE PLANS

ON LA?

S. NOT FOR UNSNAFU, 19 BUT, WHIP WAS IN SPAIN RECENTLY DID HE IZAR

ANYTHING ABOUT CUBA'S PURCHASE OF SPANISH BUILT. FISHING BOATS?

ABOUT SPANISH FIRMS GRANTING CREDIT OR SPANISH COVT UNDERHRITING IT?

HOW MANY SHIPS AXD FINAL DELIVERY DATE? DOES WHIP KNOW ANYTHING

ABOUT CURAN CRITURIA IN APPROVING DEPARTURE CUBAN REFUGEES TO SPAIN

OR PORTUGAL! DO THE REFUGLES HAVE ANY CLAIM TO SPANISH CITIZENSHIP?

6. PLS ASK WHIP WHETHER AMLASH ONE KNOWS CHUTE CALIXTO (GARCIA) MARTINEZ,

NON CO OF THE CENTRAL ARMY. IF ANISHER YES PLS GET ALL POSS DETAILS

• OF RELATIONSHIP, AND ANY IDBAS WHIP MAY HAVE ON LASH'S TRUST IN ERCIA,

DITTO FOR FALSTINO (PEREZ) HERNANDEZ, DIR MATI INSTITUTE HYDRAULIC

RESOURCES.

REGEABINE CUFICER

COOEDIDATIRE CIENCERS

SECHET

REPRODUCTION BY

OPTER :HAN ISLE ISSUING DIFICE IS PROH.BITED.

i ...

Teasies care

AU!

Copy Na

0702299

---

## Page 5

-CLASSIE MERAGE

10.0.028

1'6-2-05641 N9

Birs :

I6BEND:D

11250 8

INFO

5F369,

%. ASK SIlIP EXTENT LASH'S TRUST IN CADIZ PEDRO (KIRET) PRIETO

ALSO.

8. ASK WHIP FOR NAMES AND DITAILS ON ANY HIGH BANKING AVAI

TRIDIDS LASH/1.

9. PLS ASK WHIP WHETHER LASH RECD THE MEXI INVITATION.

END Of MESSAGE

WH/SA/ LUTEL

/H/ SA/ SO / KI

7/3. It.

C/. F./INT

DELEASING OTFICI

RUCE S. CHEEVES

DC/AN:/SA

GOPWENTIE

RE-ROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Ma

---

