# 104-10012-10034

## Page 1

104-10012-10034

ADD"'

Marion and Mr may Assascinktion

?; Tomorrow Duied 26 Apiil 1957

In responso to rcicience memorandum, wil/Cuban operations

croup ins endeavored

to provice all milable, informtion on

individuals and organizations requested in parngraphs 5,6 and

7oï toference.

Acenchlient i contains background information

data on individunis olitained Iron WHCOS and str

Matarmont

marines the bacterond informa

tion and Agency association vith the organizations listed in

paragraph 5 of reference.

Wk/C0G will continue to review all

material

• that.

may

contair infornation pertinent to this subject and will forward

such information to CI/R& A on a priority basis:

AC/ wh/CoC

Attachment 1

Dio data on individuals

attachment 2

"around Summary of FRD: DRE, INCA

---

## Page 2

000

ATTACHMENT I TO WH/COG 67-194

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Sant to Generalde Member:

1525, s:

1..

Traces On AnCACi in in letoco ta: leto de ill'st

arrived in the u.s

MONARIO

::.-

wiid Bag

mind childind

intil the ino coaco to iude:

o1 the CURAN IEVOLUTIONARI COUL aEd haS Unbanised and

supported by the Agency.

is cranization

wis isad. as

one oh recruitment of. 3rifac. 2505 fortre iuvasion.,"

During Chis period ARCACHA 1C*0..e0y0 Ere FED Leadqualtor's

in Miant through a post offloe bes fa Cort Cables, aid

reportedly minared caturate relue

Twe of his regulai

FBI contacts were a f. De Bruce am the deceased Guy

Banister.

ANCACHA waS also une Ji me monoters oi the

FRIENDS OF DEMOCRATIC CUB.,

in New Orleans on 6 January 1961. This organization vas

potts bly sweated by even case besin agent,

political

Guy banister

to collect money ic rid cubans in their

Figlt against Connunisn.

According to the articies of

incorporation, these donations corle also ba used to support

the raD

and the lunds were

to be crameled througi ARCACid,

less

a percentage to be retailed by de rec.

An investi-

gation conducted by a reliable lisa Station asset conciuded

that the FDC was organized

strictly for the personal gain

of the promoters with the uppioval and collaboration of

ARCACHA? The investigation produced no elidence that auy

individual donations. were evot soficited on receired ind

recommended that the funds or he Stereroses Grion and the

books of the New Orleans Exporiers Coming Es investigated

joy evidence of personal ga

lederal tax evasion, since toth the resident of the New

Ordeans Exporters Company, Gerard F. Imague, and the Chief

of New Orleans Stevedores

i ten severany, ba

Unlon, Afted Chitrender, were

officials of the FDC.

FDC was created, sizong critica ton sone promilent Cubans.

put the

organizacion out c. britiss.

ARRICAd Cravorted to Carter

tea is adding mus risin.

MisspOrt No, Duit.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

•i!"".

11.

ciliriilà

tandaiaitd

i'c

1002; GS0.

-;.

hcaera

...s.

Miuad

6; ..

ASAie

12-60035

JOn: 10HD056

13

0.6d-045 ta Pebcinty

---

## Page 5

13-00000

i..

I personia distort abette dit

LINGUERE 60i Tile

ano blunder carlos; t tawye!

in Cura, was 15 yeais old ci mo time of Jun's recruitnest.

in 1960.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

• .

• arrivi?

Kniction caterest it

_ 131 Most...

Mexicc.

who is tis

handled the pianning and arrangeroi

sor the dew Orleans

irit with INCA Ofliciais,

between the IMMAVE asset and Edwaid BUTlER occurred wren

11:21 Organzation.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

the britis!

5202605

11!10

a nail.:

..ii

mics during the invasion

Deundel 1962 prisoner

2. LOMLL apparent.:

iiaid to Cuba with his parents

i the US coattoni

i:d:

9 140: 57h001

pistade shite Calversity

15 godeotan tron LSU no injuriod to Cubi

and marciou doigarica radlem: yan der SCHUEKEN,: born 13

August 1932; siussels,

ICHLER was Fresideut of

tha

Forth Ancrican Sugar Coxa.ay,

Havanay

from 195l until

he returned

to the us in

co. ador 1960 and enlisted in

Brigade 2506. At-the Give o. dis enlistment he gave Mark

i judge represcutative,

and jormer US Anorasador

FAULty, as references.

Following his release fron p'ison TOWLLR worked foir the

BRAIMS CONSTRUCTION CONFATE

in Beach, Florida, where his

father resides, and do: diS RiVEL SERVICES, W. Palm

Beach, florida, until at least lace 1904. He appayently

lost: his US citizenshi, during his years of residence in

Cuba and immigration records indicate he applied for advance

parole status in November 150: while he was stillemployed

in W. Palm Beach. He appeconly returned to Louisiana:

sometime after that date.

FiLEr's nother livest in Coving-

ton,

Louisiana, and le ius i sister wio is married to Fort

PIPES, sio,.

member of a prominent Now Orleaus family.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

i sode 195%

midget as didn"

rite Was

milable with Ellio SANTANA

78 in December 19G0 as i

Miland!

:..

3.

mid Daid a monthly

:::

¿ until ho vas terninated

OH 1Ö DOTION 10J3

madd the katie developed by.

the team

3C677

inortoode due tick.:

the target area l

1113.

r.....

intitanti

certain

-on mis caiuchlos reporting conceming

in an decent to es olish positive identification,

Jia & obtained a report iron the Dade County Ofant)

Sheriff's office

that an Emilio SINTANA (no matronymic

DO 5 JUly 1936 in Cuba, Was doctored a tugitive from

-agine ch a deadma

13223.d, based on two counts of ourglery iu Louisana.

He- was

arrested and booked by the Dade County. Sheriff's

office on 2 February 1965 and as presumably sent back to

Louisinna.

Ac che

time O. dis AriSST SANTANA gave his

adduoss as 351 Sir 4th Stroei, Miami, which is the.

address shown on an old imitation

sm when he was

living in Miani®

licadquarters files indicate SANTANAS IS

separated fron his

wife who apparently still besides at

the old Miani address.

Since SAfiaNA's date of birth varies

on various documents in his 20, file, the variation in birth

Gate on his arrost sheet is not conclusive thestact le

did sive his former address to the arresting offigers

indicates he is Emilio SINTANA Galindo.

A 1962 Imnigration

form includes a photograph which could be obtained fron

JNNAVE for identification purposes if this becomes necessary.

Although JiVAVE has had no contact with, SANTANA

since his termination, there

Is & note in Station lites

dated 23 June 195d that SANDAld used the Ageucy as his.

employer on an auto credit application.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

11:11h8 :

Mis Delinchint Who Was &

..:..: i0i

silents

iti

piade,

darAve cnces feticci

is an cloctrical

• .?

ten mirlonnst th Decamber 190d

ind unüll the mudle o?

1651 ms un ardent Cro120 supporter

and made anci-US statements.

There is no findication that a

Carlos QUIROGA waS

employed by the Arency ausany

capacity.

---

## Page 10

13-00000

'!:'

allands:

Listed

we croived in tie is an

cutle der deck tries B0a220

Manneda

-360 aid

Shared was

wet toddl

- dOlosed in the Disoner exchange.

There is no

indication he was over employed by the Agency, Other than

100610

won in the Anodsd0

---

## Page 11

13-00000

.: "

Paired Openhile:

...

-

iind the article

01: id: 8t which appoared

MiLiE GERALD On 2i Apiil

1967

wen io analable mu cortch. and io in the process

ci Conducting an exhauste sunil lur treeos on the cover

oiganizations NOVEL Clained to scrate for the Agency in

New Orloans.

i::"

---

## Page 12

13-00000

ittinn.

....!:

ittii i;

'i'!::" :.:

wo nocoid of daagucn dacd' citbed woae in Wil/C00

0l obieatCllos.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Ai...

ATTACHMENT 2

TO WH/COG 67-194

2 ..

---

## Page 14

13-00000

1A Daeombor 1966.

simondi stalent Broug 1n Cuba

all code CAstin,

ding in

wie....

....i..

And Neio Guiserently crained

meantlicroted into Cuba

by the thener

1:15

4000

•thor oporated by obtain

1:3 1100.1

in depts;

up througn

the

u9 as a psyc.

tie orgunication wis given

amount i-

mahalary dad in tunds and waccrialed

after cle Bay c. Pigs:

the

engages in independent

military actio.s. mich

declined at Agency direction ande

becauss of a touction in funds

from late 1962 untilater

mination of the groug. donbers were used through 1966vas

political action

gets, dow pitalshing propaganda whien

was sent trousiou the remispire, accending international

student netings at gene, direction, and producing radion

programs and special propaganda campaigns.

2.

After the cutback in miitary operations, nany:

best Dre

presenteen me contain american cour

nenvers relocated in other areas.

tries which have naintained some contact with various de

Agency stations over the

wears although the DRE is no

longer very aciiie.

During the organization's & ycai

period of active existence DRE Personnel weie in contact:

with several envE stafiers and vutside contract agents.

However, from Jauiry 1965

through December 1900, contact

with DRE personnel ins linited io two agents, Jual Manuel

SALVAT, the curront DRE Secretary Coneral who is now

operating a bookstore in Miami,

Florida, and Fernando

GARCIA Chacon who was relocated in El Salvadol.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

1120242

mand vaganization

.::3

inst cassominates English

pes ind calls on a worid-

...,

suf an sacroniot

!:c.

asional sapetus andfunds

is" Jrioans figures ircluding

Dr. A200: OCONCE

02 tha OU:

titani?

IC CLINIC, aud Willuid E.

mi? took wupplied by the

that mine won.

miloors tas detacials nos boon requested trom 3MVAV

mitch tas and Soie

casual cordescondence with the organiza-

tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

2

There is no Indication of any Agency relatie stip

with EnCa prior do January 1055 when INCA sponsored Miss

And late on inconcy

As that cane an Agency

assat MiD

fundituned as

ITas

involved with met officials in planning the New Orleans

visit wherd Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dimensi

sponsored

by inca. The dinner, wich was cutended byselvic

leaders

and representaiives of all news media, took place.

shortiy after Miss CASTRO's deiection and there was

considerchle

interest in ner appearance.

INCA:was part cularly

interested since it had distributed hundreds of Englas

and Spanish language apes containing her statements whens

She was suriaced in Mexico. In October 1966 INCA agath

requested that Miss CASTRO appear as a guest speaker in

major American cities in comection with the relenso of

the INCA Motion pieture production "HITLER IN HAVANA"C

inadvisable to permit Miss CASTRO to accept the invitation

Because of INCA's extrenist political orientation,

IMMAVER

has wanted to avoid any nore involvement between Miss CASTRO

and INca and the Station asse::

in his capacity. as

has nanaged to prevent this. There has been only

one casual contact between our asset

and Edward SUTLERy

Enecurene Vice-Fresident Of tich, Since Miss CASTRO's 1965

New Orleans trip.

This took Place recently

witen BUTLER WaS

in the area promoting

the "HITLER IN HAVANA"' 1ilm.

According to aMAD, iCA utaicials have never

indiosied in any

and direccion of Miss CASTRO & herE

ay hat to ye aware of egency he here

dication that Nuck officials have had any official

contact mth agency oficeis.

---

## Page 16

13-00000

1a50 and worststod

CD was cormodl

kis

Initiai

Melbhartier

juice:

9001!

152413

- i.

mid Broad througto

che

Gersphere to sain

The PRo aiso funcrioned

1ny the donbers of

Orian di souici

15015t2:20 10 -ilgade 4000 NOnbels 14.

tillig Chings

med their

archough the ind head

quartors were based in Mand,

delegates were assigued to

other rieas

mallard new Orieans, Louisiaha, lampa

Floridu, and Mexico Cloy, iu gather intelligence and

coordinate Cuban refugee

activities.

•: In late 1900 or 01112 103.

the CUbAN REVOLUTIONARY

COUNCIU (CRC) maJ Tormed to coordinate and direct ERD

activities and

this group

was treaded by Agency and White

House sponsored Di. Jose MIRO Cardoud, assisted by Manuel

ANTIne and

Dr. ARconio vARONA:

joü the FRU aud

the CRC

continued to funotion until October 1961 when the FRD was

completely absoried by the CRC in order to avoid the confusion

resulting from dupiication of persuinel, activities and

funding:

The CRC also had direct access to President

Kennedy and top mhite House aides. Bacause of the magnitude

of the FRD and CRo operations and the Agency participation

in the activities and tunding

of the groups, a large number

of JMVAVE and Headquarters were direcily involved with both

FRO and CRC personnel.

---

