# 104-10018-10062

## Page 1

104-10018-10062

(WHEN FILLED IN)

• ROUTING AND - RECORD SHEET

INSTRU TIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

¡i in Sec!.

2. on back. Detach back flap

1 forwaid to RID.

siroy front cover sheet, unless it records

- nificant action taken or comments requir-

i, preservation.

„FROM:

RIDIAN

TO: ACTION BRANCH

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

. А4.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

TO

DATE

ROOM

NO.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

SAS/ESC 31

De)

63

SAS/ Reto

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

1.

SOlAR

13 Jpu 44. N

SAS/Or DISTILA JAN 1954 -

Hutchise

Si Sunt

17.I. 64

md

alicos

TiT.

Capy deteched

Document Number.

420.751

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

74т

MICROFILMED

DEC 3 U 1963:

DOC. MICRO. SER.

C5D3 3/6581830

till

ten Tire

63

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE: A: Compleiely reliable.

B: Usually reliable.

C: Fairly reliable.

D: Not usually reliable.

E: Not reliat!s.

lo sources of doubiful honesty or loyally, regardless of their competence).

tested sources).

Fi Reliability cannot be judged (Applied lo untested or insuficienly

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: I: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true. 3: Possibly true.

falso.

6: Cannol be judged,

4: Doubtful. 5: Probably

SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT 1. Disagreements Between Fidel

Castro and Raul Roa y Garcia

2.

Frobablo Future Plan of

Action for Carlos Rafael

Rodriguez

REPORTNO. @SPB- 5/556870

DATE OF REPORT

19 Decenver 1963

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

HMM

DATE OF & 30 November 1963

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

United States, Miami

UFG- 4286

My bedender ooo

THIS IS

JNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIV

SOURCE:

An educated Cuban whose reliability has not yet been

established, source is a veteran Communist, well versed in

economics, and employed by the Cuban Governnent.

Within both

Conmunist and Government circles source has numerous acquaint-

ances, a few of whom are intluential. The information in para-

graph

I was obtained from the brother of [

curing the course oi a conversation between the brothers,

that

in paragraph 2 from Carlos Rafael Rodriguez Rodriguez.

261-097456

(Fidel castro ruz was highly critical of the note which Raul

El Roa y Garcia sent on 26 November 1963 to the Mexican Embassy

-Mottle

in Habana protesting the arrest by Mexican police of a Cuban

201

Consulate employee in Mexico. Despite the lact that the

employee,

Silvia Duran, was a Mexican citizen,

Fidel Castro

felt that the note was worded too strongly and would not con-

tribute to harmonious Cuban-Mexican relations.

2.

As of 30 November, Carlos Raza fod dariguez esprossed

the opinion that he would not remain for too much longer in the

Instituto Nacional de la Reforma Agraria (INRA, National institute

of Agrarian Reform), but would leave his present assignmont and

devote hinsoli entirely to working with the Conmission foi the

Ecoiiie Diroctorate of the Partido Unido de la Revolucion

Socialista PURS, United Party of the Socialist Revolution).

Rodi. noz has been having difticulties with various ort.cials

01 :

i, and has net little cooperation.

Rodriguez is :.50 of

inion that present Cuban politics seen to indicai.. an

is sy Tidel Castro to remove Communists fron ciccusive

cadadas

in the Cuban Governnent.

OS COPY.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSOLI

CONTROLLED DESSE

---

## Page 3

13-00000

HGS

REPORT COVER SHEET

FROM

JMVA VE

REPORTING OFFICER AST

Victor

SUCHARA

REPORTE OFFICER

APPROVING OFFICER

BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:

TYPIC

Source: AMISLE-2 SW 34 of 30 November.

See a1so UFG-4222, 4235, 4242.

RID: Please Index.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DATE OF REPORT

REPOR

-tO.

UFG-4286

19 December 1963

RD. NO.

PROJ.

MICROFILNED

DEC 3 0 1963

S°CE CR.

DOc. M:0P5. SER.

Received 12 December.

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED OV 25 MAY 1976

_IMPDET CL 31013208

Document Number

422-759

for FOIA Review on

MAY 1976

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

EXTRA-AGENCY

1 - State (Miami)

+ - H0S.

1

- 00/C

2 - ежі - То

cUT pouch

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

NO. OF ENCLOSURES

REFERENCES!

NO. PAGES

APPR

PADA

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM DOI

---

