# 104-10239-10024

## Page 1

1104-10239-10024

1 March 1066 •

#H/C 185-48

LX-2499

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

C/#H/2/Salvador

General: AMMUG/1 Debrlefing Report $284

Specific: Agent Files

No agent file is ever closed or retired to Archives.

If an agent dies, his personal file may be closed ll he was a

singleton, nd running any iind of notwork, and without close

In that instance, M Sullding headquarters is notified

that the agent has died and his personal file is considered closed,

but the file is retrained at the operations' desk from which the

agent was controlled.

2. If an agent dies who has been concerned with or in

charge of a network, his flle is kept open and every effort 1a

made by the case aficer to find soreone to replace him in the

netword, whether he is replaced or not, the tle remains open.

3. Il an agent is imprisoned, his ille remains open and

efforta are made by the headquarters' case officer to reactivate the

agent and his speration.

* Il an agent defects, his ille remains open and efforts are

made by the headmuarters' case olficer, through whatever means,

to reclaim the agent, using intimidation or blackmall but not

phyalcal violence. No instances are known between Auguat 1963

and April 1894 in which physical violance was used against a

defected agent. Whether the agent responds or not, the case

remaine open.

5. At the Salvador Desk, for llle purposes, agente recelved

& letter and number designation

Recording of such a number on

the document Indicates that i copy goes to the agent's file. The dest

uses S for Salvador; two Agent numbers on documents are 11 (11-4)

for Roque DALTON and 5 (5-5) for Alejandro GOMEZ Montano.

1)!:

---

## Page 2

03p,

;.'

The form tuled cat by the ajent in the Valladures Operation and

the sent la the homoo paration'is a slandurd personn history

form, sod only for agents of forelin nationally. The address

In cuba ricarded on the lorin ls not the reni aldress ihere the

Bent is livin, but i cover address, since two agents (In the

romeo and Valladares Uperntons) save the imme sodress bul

would not hare been lyin, to other and were not trained lo, other

bocmise they batoned to diteron leftist organisation.

03

WE/C/RR/Us/Miutchlson:ema

Dietribution:

1-EI

z w/2/Salvador.

I- WH/C/ESEC

2- AMMUG/1 Production

I-Alary/Eernice

1- Chrono

---

