# 104-10186-10179

## Page 1

104-10186-10179

FINFORMALION

EPORTM

KAINEORMEATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTY Cuba

SUNECT "Gary" (an alias)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

REPORT NO. CSCI-816/00730-65

DATE DISTA

16 February 1965

1

RETURNTO CIA NO. PAGES

Background Use Only REFERENCES

Do Not Reproduce

CS-311/0011564

(page 9)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

1964

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. December 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

ROLLATION SOUNCI ORADINOS ARE DITINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS PENTARME

. SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service utail Apri1 19646

Headquarters Connents

The following teport la one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Garg" is an assistant to Alfred ALMENDA Garcia, head ol

the Venezuela desk in the Seccion Sur (South American Section)

of the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional (National Liberation

Department - Li) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(Genegal Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

"Gary," a Cuban citizen, la a Caucasian, was born between

110 pounds, bas a thin

salary is about $210.00.1

Headquarters Comment

1.

The records of this Agency reveal no additional Identifiable

information on "Cary."

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SPAYE

I DIA

NAVT

_ INSA

REP CINCLINT CINCSO # I&NS

(Note: Giald stribution Indirata so "#")

INFORMANON

REPORT

WL/Sd'EOBI

1FBI ?

INFORMATION REPORTE

2 CURSA

31F

MISHIR

#ISA/CL

TO/MAVE

MI/SA 8 (1). ME A (1), C8*, RID

4$ 2355

-UFGA 19083(160€

SO PROJECTCANNLA

+029550989148

1

FORMINO 1

CAVITY TRIMON EDITIONS

19-5-1

4/8R

---

