# 104-10139-10021

## Page 1

104-10139-10021

LES ON

POPERINA

TRON:

75 Maras 2957

¿ Clos, Inspoordos and torter Start

Gludad I51220,

Dondnion Boysblio.

Introductiog.

L. This In a report of la laguiry 1060 alloped 1018070d ons

Cinded Trujille

2e This Inquiry was

solod in cindod fragilla botsons tha

detes. or 1l and 15 Farch 1957, ly ropreneulativas of ta Ins Staft

and wa Division.

IIa

Wantong of 15, 11

an PAlaT, Sorer US. Lahareader

bassador to Uras1l, In souvursaste sia tos Director had sulad:

"La pert, soat

was "end basybody end an extraraly

talks i evarybody in the world. 18 airays tire % 11lk 1a

Ios infanation bosasss he sees I an iron ls: praramn and bo 11

stig to sor laforation cut ol it.. I bare soon foa poople tha

am Laas disarrot.•I ballot Shat do 1a not a sa tbo co esaluato

death of, blu but all tha Anarions ess soured of lans I an parod

achin, md I as sirald to talk so the pay and tbat tears the tore

For me you wairs I CIA"S

DI.

Ebe Doinican Revublie.

4e. ¡In a0d1s10n to lt. PAlET's statcasi, sha la Ditiales has

coples of labasay dispatbag. No. lols sod 105 a 9 end 11 Fabrary

1957 mitlad, "The MURpH and da la kill cassa" shias ropert A

bassador kI. PHELTER's conTersatia ulta tra Docirloan BejablIog

Foreign Ministar, BERRERo. Ila Forgiza Ministar, In emvarsation

sto the Asbassador, bad Infonally comulatied of the "durasjesi sod

Impudence" al U.3. Charge d' Affairs, Mabard E. STAINS and tha

al3a8ad "lamendoes" as 1to

mesticing the Teracty of official

Dolodean statesanta paratning do the deatd o1 s Dosdalcan Bat107el,

So La Mali,. Fran his ocateraadlon tita be Forate Sanlater, Iso

Arbassador roported that the Joria Milntor sent co to say bLa:

tho atstados of STEPESy and

Indicated they harbarad bestlit

---

## Page 2

2ar3arpa pes fala bat 1f sber parsisted la tenir ntitades al he

=131147

De rould be cospallad to mia sushar ramosations 1i th

prosdses....

tanted that ha did not alaro the tiosa ai tla Jordan ristor.

Ise Asparches, barovor, rateal the asteri so uda la Dardalver

Sapublte would sparirtly pare a volta di cata accast Dosa

Dondrdens redes

6.1: 3snoe tho unocosatul asterpe to brabo

CadeS of Doudnioan Fopublio'a Intalliges Sestare sist a yous

apo, and alsos the disappearzace of Jasua MarIl de Cala, 2a

aLlend Bange Intollignes seau, s arand coolanes has dersluped

330|

_Lato r0lat1oan tita 8hs Donindenne, dempaper and ,

Illa saporta, 17 tha Unisad States o le palitica, strospbero In

ibe Dominican Rapaolio (sush as those sho la sbe astenimente) asá

save impedrod the lieteo malatlonship, Thaes dataloganta bare Dess

pranly sportad le she Val Diriasa by

3ges 200 Sosta

V. " Romulte of Tuteri 1

assetiant

1Sh Babaney Parsoanelo

nictor) In order to daterales whather or not

Ins boas ladde

crort le allowd, the fallarng elfours of Sha li, Dabacuy te

W111a91. PESITTER, Anbassader o

Entry. M. LOTTI, Beeoad Secretary and foosul

Mahard Y. STIPINS, Beand Becrotary lur Fornedo Affala

Coesider Ralph C. Eccal, Loso Maval trae

Ibose offesra ulthess emeption meta ligaly os

of his Integrity, loyalit, cooperation and dirabllity. They blazed

ubat ba nas merptle, bo bad estensire contadio and soues, and be

mintrinad a rido coveray di the locei soane." Rosa or tss paracas

inievloroi roalled my inotdent unich mond Indianto 2has

san 1nd1ser9ot. Beveral Sillaang matlanod 1ras

Ma de 18

nasant tultor end thas la hos dunayed coopie vist cocadagis ina

bustanlo ascoute or Mistory and voral soleconos (2b0 stra ot

---

## Page 3

Tha

In 00r1an0 1t

al Bon fine palate to mich

has bad so pland learns a son

ebraid fre

qantly a lenad so so reluablo ant tinal. the minstense et

W62.4063

-20.

tors be noted aban

ms hald 1n high esteen ay lis

Dadadonna bo ma decreete

112÷

Is Annsento us pilalary ble ta his prals al

ke stated thas

ama en sonat to aba Anbasay and Shet

Is (Abe Arbansador) rally send I

18 A Spoil A8a1s89 191

bot soal and affleded lantan

Es stator Shas 818 Ale

120. In aditos to Stasy persual, Ir. Born RICh, dange

of Bho Person Company in Cadad Pralllo, no is farmly Been

clared oy CIl, and bla ida, stepheny, al

no biphiy ropardod 1a da daro sadors sesanity and thas so

o bad any soar al badas in blo compano: 800s stated thas Da

playad poll uta the mber of the denstosa beatnage permity

sod and savor board i

Stophany RICE tensions it the hurden arboal and spenda smalder

She add 12ut apan dron 1 dialle undod some people hare so

Inocense of the anut at inling that la does abort hote

and related mbiacts, so ma mll lund in the enday and ana baa

DaTor koard 13 sold the ho us indisarves er a paramn to ba avolded.

3. Pollade the abor intosions la Andardar sea inford

Is stated tart to me mr pliased to hers this and sans so

had hoped sant suas an inpatsy well diete bite

The kasseter was

---

## Page 4

14-00000

1zT0rn 40n8 221 at bla artion had stated thra

lappested $0

NO IN

1 108107570

i sh to did to son i to ha.

saron to mid that postaly 1s. Mahard STiPuS, al saa Sdas the

for suri of swan arden in the 111 00s S ond that

spens hod stated mommany the

Ians blahly rore

1. Punthers

¡sachary d" seculia, are la un sala ent al the benta et dia.

Come hererina to

ton 1n10ran1 notion tim by the Bonson Torshao Matster uddel

From Gladad TrajllO to Man after abalns paradistor to do no

Do Fondgarters. It 19

Test in 200

36. ' According 8e

and other Babaory strlelal, thor are

any ta3. chisman the have muted Interone in the Darliena

urag the course of thus inquiry sars a l. Bebors GENT.

1,3. Ambasendor.

come to General INTI

C40e 1294

---

## Page 5

730. 19

mar of PAller e closa tes iita 1s1l0.

did state that e en tins ha datad PALA Se in

farsatle en tha CALINEL 0R0S. La sand parios conversa

that 1 to Dedalo dagullo le ma la teteran.

unt 1n ven ef tha mner ho spoodred ha watod be dad sat aer

the question

mot guantes insther e not tast quantion poend to patat ma 1

mita

It ma a mortim sied prinhly sould har bean assa

Io Sostate

29 - Ca sha banda es sha terendago 18 la scasintel lati

Io Thore ma no sostene evidenes that ta

110

staldo she Imbasty uto la sonalo dociacions of satana.

condi sono 1a 111%66

---

## Page 6

abslat the Doddea loves

20. Is 10 s000

maded these:

Il orlanto she nuen ty for ministring sopr

water to gured of endar, i rato sa great he sala

Oт-111 p9-(06

D. DEMARL

Distraulan

Catal - Adamsese

¿ Odor, Ma stile

It Sueject 1930

Attentio

w The Diractors:

or not a new man should be identified to the Dadnicen authorition

---

