# 104-10218-10106

## Page 1

104-10218-10106

SECRET

PRO #0.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATEN AD.

INSYRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

ThI»

Be filled

offaero of appropriato authority or tha bases

the bost arailAble in.

iy.

por!

Lacable

provasiona!

approval "ay

' abraines by comply toe

128

and 18d.

Thereafter sho

usced

mothol to

document

Thres

FR

Dals

Fill

for item, use

1. CRYPTONYM

Rame? made

en subject's handeritina, af postablod and too (3) con-

TOREADIE.

able

too !?, ropies

number.

"VA.

8f additional space required

PSEUDONYM

SECTION

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

INDICATE HON. WHER, EMERE, ANY, AND BY ANCH SUBJECT NAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

• ::

.!".

"le:

admies priestse

!

INDICATE

WHETHER

SUBJECT CAVIO DE TURNEO OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANGED TO ANE REISDSSIRLE CASE DEFIGER ROP

HANDLING.

so.

JADICATE TO WHOU.

....

1: 19

ia1:

111090.uü

w!?.

weater:

-"'"

LIST OTHER CASE GREICERS

WHO NAVE HANDLED SUOJECT OR SHOW NE ANONS OR HAS I VOWN, GIVE NAMES BY ANICH THEY HAVE

BEEN

н"r.

' ..

lt More IT

tt18"

12"0

this.,

•tin Gate: Med Cour 1e? 6244 23010 15,3

: 4760: 1000N09 49 42016700 0°

3131.

.!?.

15.8

FoRe 1050a

8-38

Te-208 :

SECRET

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

SECRET

SECTION IT

MOTIVATION AND COMTPOL

ESTIMATE SUBJECT-S MOTIVATION, (DO dePaIlod, al possible rito eridence, Do eut und s8ock cosment auch ao

-ant 2+

Goneunada.

WHAT CONTAOL. IF

AMY.

EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (Al nO

reol control

SECTION

COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IM THEIR MEETINGS.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OSTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING MIS INFORMAMIS.

INDICATE SERVICE

FOR AMICH

SUBJECT THINKS NE (Hill worky (ls aurand).

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIA SUBJECT'S ANDAN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION DITA

ANY OTHEA INTELLIGERCE SERVICE, INUILAIE IME ERTENT

SUCH CONNECTION IS ANONN OVERTES.

'. .

...:.

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

!!!"

SECTION V

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

INDICATE OTHER

FOREIGE POMER SUBJECT ADULO BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE MITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGE

OR FAST

ASSOCIATIONS.

EXPLAIN.

A. "".

203.0d

il contr2d.le0dt 10.

Grind.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

ContInued

Section II. 1.

2o She undoubtedly 18 patriotic but disaprees stronaly with certain PBERRE policies.

3. she 1s, at the time being it least, almost completoly dependent on the KUEAR.

---

## Page 4

• .

SECRET

SECTION

OPERATIONAL

USE - CONTACT

1F SUBJECT MAS DIES USED DE CONTACIED GEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN MUICH HE DAS ENGAGED ASD TAI HYPE DE IPUSSH-

NATION

•..*

INDICATE HOE

AND FRON ANDS SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

S. INDICATE ANAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO INE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION ME FURNISHES.

;.:":?

DETAIL SUBJICTOS PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

3. DITATE SUBJECT•S FOSPOST

:2.:.:..1

UST OR BUTTES

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PASPOSED LIAISO TIRE SDITAÇI DR SREPATIOSAL USE .

•. OHERE SUBJECS IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

"3'à

• 10÷903.1"

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODOKE AGENCY:

iting. in:

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

RELATIONSHIO WITH SUBJECTS DOE, TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, RENUVERATION. OF ANT: AGENCY

PERSOUNEL ANOGA TO SUBJECT.

3i00 Cerebio

"rar

curle Ma ceraline Borgotly

Is paid 40a 250.00 Perchiv;

-90 1395970071011119991

Pt salory tis

3

SECRET

catcher

For her

For

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SECTIGN 1X

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER DREPATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL BRIGISIES, -PALENIS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED DO SUBJECT AMICH COULO CONCENUAL. BE OF VALTI

OTHER OPERATIJAS.

to art

madur,

..?...

SECTION X

CONOMI THEATS

IF

IS PROPOSED

COUMODITILS.

SUAJECT A REGULAR SALARY.

INDICATE

IME BEERLY AMOUNT, IF PAYMENT 1O DE MADE IO ENCHANDE

SUASIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIEY DOS GIVE DETAILS.

Cablect

15 paid 608 250.3% rentali, Pror wile: licone des doduction: are orio.

2124.10

corridies, solelies or

194.1214

tent

inte

is

ox tableed and tases

OTHERWISE NOT

COVERED HEREIO, MADE TO SUBJECT. (ESARDlE. COMmeRMOnIS

fasety.)

are try;

4^05

-1'

•Di:

nitre,

SECTION XI

CE

AND SECURITY

LODIGATE THE FIELD

AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES MITH ENICH SUBJECT-S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND TAE

lee margine 101

137081

LICENTO -I

ADIATE OTHER TSESTTSATIVE MEASURES TAREY TO VEDIFY BIOGRAPMIERE IUPORMATION FURDISHED BY SURITE!

young is a

0327323001475

cialiano lias so:

-criting

ray toros

•:11e5

tor.

ADICATE WHETHER

19 45T PROVISIONAL

APPROVAL OR OFEHGTIONAL AP.

PROVAL FOR SUBJECI'S USE HAS

BEEN

PREDIOUSLY

•in-

EVALUATE •SUBJECTIS CURRACIEN.

RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CIPING EVIDENCE MERE POSSIBLE.

;.2?121:

inet

ileo"

clact terr

or cationi/inesto deal point o.

vie:,

to

2 deen

Inferiorite carlor,

rit

G.

2.

hairing

malaria:

1:78c::

-1.G

bos

125790

—. GAde APIRDJAL

Carat,

----191

1-

nocuri

ANY

MEYERATIDY

OR

INDISCRETIDA IN MAICH SUBJECY MAY HAVE BEES INVOLVED AMICH MUST BE EVALUATED ERJOR A

CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

is ludlocarica not imom croade do cardiueror can ba cited irria 1a ts

Lebtrato vien it siot vale the latter 76 in lodeo,

date sary.

un then he felland iconide to art

-= Entireta

it nir,

About the

- not teccorde to bar ar

mine, creast social ind citeam

SECTION KII

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MADITS

1. USE OF AIQUOR. DRUGS:

GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.

unreco irinko socially, but is not holieved to sink excesaivelie Brodies De 1s

no tellored to dse drure o!' ony dina, exceet for rectoinel sur cos and citrin.

orally, the

Juli not ip arcinat

it: Eiina, but sarg so: joas

not trile, Maranour have roun cover: disartare in 0is for

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Section XI, 5.

30

Security: the has provan to be reasonally security conselous, however, her

Intirate relationshlo with LT'iliCi,

and rossible with others

constitute potential security izards.

The 1s descreet in her more conversations

with the case officor, md in the rechanies of miin- reetlame she

sonctires turas

down necting places surcasted by the case officer, savinr that some of her

aoquaintances visit the place or the area surrested, or that coulet and/or Satellite

personnel are believed to visit the place or area.

The (reatest potential securits

hazard, the writer belleves, is the tyre of situation, sexual and/or erotional

Involverent, ihich she light allow herself to becore Involved in.

Section XI, Go

20

In an effort to nave the say for Ll'luors retum to lexico, she 111a

Incereedad :1th various lexican Coverarent of cials, and caused certain

presa articles in his defenge to be rublished. This nctivity, hoteve', :23

carried on with the knowledis and approval of KUBAK personnel, She prvided

copies of letters written, and recelved fyom LILUCk, clip:dom from the press,

and sumarlos of her conversationa with ledcan Covement personnel.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

SECTION XIID

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

S. INDICATE SUBJECT-S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

at true to terty nodi

SECTICE XIV

GENERAL

INDICATE #NETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTMER CHANACHERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULD PASS AS A NATIVE

OF A COUNTRY ON REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN.

EXPLAIN,

:: 30 ci1012.2 me Crybal conraice, do could patril not part do tartle

INDICATE

WHETHER INFORMATION IS PRO

PARTS I AND

OBTAINED BY RESEARCH.

CLANDESTENE

CORDESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

,..i

it taint'!

tigest.

224251

on trade for elon cottad.iar 4:

1992 6000

Turt

7D, 4. 21:

9r9642814570

anted the

-..:

ASSESSMENT.

FILES.

OBER THAN. POUTINS

DIMER THAN ROUTINE SCION IS REQUIRED. IS AND ENEM TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, OLEASE CXPLAIR. (AIMO

an.o. ....

-v-+a

ded on and tell delion mall

SECTION XY

DIERGENCY COMDITIONS

RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E, RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S'M: AMERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE:

MARINE CONTACT USES

Finald meet TiCH Cartage

tessert?,

2011 "Ire Chia coe hes teen tira 5o ter

• Con tits curagis

t trid nas of tho argent cace

caricar could de wed.

cattooed trous, lord tood detailicked, mus

SECTION XY!

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL BATA AND REMARKS

•j'.

bit

lie de 2531:t

n: in ircicine cooncdal cittalioa

anoid serialtasy not be fiven on,

mey inforatien win

do cacosutals auccurary

for cor to averalia: the tasten east ood ter.

atised ales bore, due pericero selectie to candie sould do rature, 20 ecarteners

ind s16a18 nor be yourer than aire

It is cellored that a asterience

torale crue

en well, to not letter, then a rale case

cisicer.

DATE

10 OrAl 1363

5

SECRET

---

