# 104-10186-10189

## Page 1

104-10186-10189

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ses munin the moaning of the taptonage ta

SECRET

NO FORSIGN DISSEM

COUNTEY CUba

• suNter Oreste VARELA (allas "Odon").

REPORT NO.

CS CI-316/00030-65

DATE DISTR.

10 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00252-64

21 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE &

Vasbington,

D.

DATE ACO DECember 1963

FIELD REPORT NO.

MES IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVA

SOURCE,

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of thie Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports wihhout

first checking with this Agency.

1. Oreste VARELA, alias "Odon," is the Argentine desk officer

in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Dircctorate of

Intelligence • DGl). He was a former radio announcer.

VARELA

as a captain in the

Cuban army and was

stationed in Habana and

she Sierra Maestra.

was born about 1930, 1s live feet

eight inches

VARELA, a Caucagras 150 pounds, and has short, brown hair.

tall, weighs

Headquarters Comments

Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced

report, this Agency has no additional identifiable information

on VARELA.

5

19 LA B

SE

CRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

ARMY

I NAVY

REP CINCLINT CINCSOT

TENS

sand by "d")

NFORMA TON

REPORT

WH.

SAECE INF

5.0

WL SA:199!

CI/B&A

delh

JIE

PH SACLE

WH-WIVE

1

RID/AN

TOTALIN SA & (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

NiSA

/XAX

1OCI

I FBI. 2

1ORM 997

ORMARON REPORT

110180N €

UFGA 19020(9Dec64)

NO PROJECT (AMMUO/1)

CSCI-316/00630-65

Соко BL5: 10.

. 0.61

4BR

---

