# 104-10012-10137

## Page 1

104-10012-10137

is$ 0841

, TOP SEME

LATER

NON-CIA TELETYPED MESSAGE 10F3

?

TO PITCRET TOLLONSI

CWQ015

NNNNVV

PP ESC

DE ESN

T. CIA ZFH

P. 2404158 ZDG

FM ALUSNA CANBERRA.

TO RUECW/DNI*

BT •

TY SEPRET

10A06L

24 Na: 63 IN 673271

PASS 'ALSO-TO CIA-:

POSSIBLE SOVIET INFORMER

1: ASST ALUSNA RECÉIVED TELEPHONE CALL 23 NCV FREI PERSON

CLAIMING TO BE POLISH" DRIVER OF RUSSIAN VEILE. HOST OF

CONVERSATION RECORDED BY ALUSNA: INFO TOUCHED ON SEVERAL

AREAS INCLUDING: POSSIBLE CONNECTION SOVIZE SIVT SUPPLYING

MONEY TO INDIVIDUAL IN U•S: TO ASSASSINATE PRISIDENT;

POSSIBLE SOVIET IMPLICATION IN U.S.S. THRESHER INCIDENT;

SYSTEM OF USSR EMBASSY PERSONNEL MEETING KiSTANTS IO

PAGE 2' RUECCR OOZA'"

TOP ECRET.

AUSTRALIA, PROVIDING TA SE PASSPORTS AND SESSING THEN TO

OTHER' COUNTRIES, RUSSIAN MILITARY ASSISTANOE TO CUBA AND

ENDONESIA & RUSSIAN CONTACT VITH COOPERATIVE IN ESSO IMBASSY,

CANBERRAS EMPLOYEE IN ANEMS CARDER DICTAR WIG IS BIVING

261289248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

iN EZ52 Z PIGE 20F3

INFO TO SOVIET EMB; SENDING OF AGENTS FROM AUST TO U.S8

PERSON' GAVE CONSIDERABLE DETAIL. ON MODUS OPERANDI OF TWO

SOVIET AGENTS IN SYDNEY•

8o. PERSON HAS AGREED TO HOEIINE WITH ASST ALUSNA IN SYDNEY •

IN NEAR FUTURE: HAS ASTES FOR. ASSURANCE HE WILL BE PROTECTED

•IF KE COOPERATES. TOLD THAT THIS COULD BE DISCUSSED AT FIRST

MEETING:

•3. AMBASSADOR,

INFORMED.

_CONDUCTING

SURVELLLANCE FOR WELL DESCRIBED CAR AND DRIVER WHO CLAIMS

TO SE IN LANDERRA NOW; MEETING SOVIET ElSiSSY UNDER SURVEILLANCE:

HAS WATCH AT PHONE EXTRANGE TO TRACE ADDITIONAL CALLS:

IF CALL TRACED

HAS ARRANGED TO MAKE IMMEDIATE SURVEILLANCE

• OF ORIGINATOR AND/OR PLACE FRON WHICH CALL MADE.

PLAN TON

¡ COVER MEETING OF ÄSST ALUSIE IN SYDNEY IF IT-EVENTUATES:

• 4.

'5: ON 15 OCTOBER 1962 A SINILAR CALL WAS RECEIVED AT EMB

PAGE J RUECCA TOP SECRET

POSSIBLY FROX SAME PERSON. IN THAT CALL REFERENCE MADE TO

¡PLOT WITH REVARD 100,000 IGILARS TO XILL PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

¡CALLER ALSO STATED USSR SURS ON WAY TO CUBA WITH TROOPS'

¿WHOSE SECOND OBJECTIVE TO GUARANTEE SUPPORT TO GOVERNOR

OF MISSISSIPPI • SUBSTANCE ES CALL PASSED TO

AT THAT,

TIME BUT NO FURTHER INTO DEVELOPED.

G. WHILE SOME ASPECTS INDIGETE INDIVIDUAL A CRANK OTHERS

SEEN MORE AUTHENTIC ALL PRATIES, INCLUDING AMBASSADOR,

FEEL MATTER SHOULD BE IAVESTIGATED UNTIL ADDITIONAL FACTS

"TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOP SECRET

ARE DEVELOPED OR EXISTING LEADS HAVE BEEN EXHAUSTED.

T. ALUSNA MAKING VERBATUM TRANSCRIPT OF RECORDING WITH

COMMENTS TO BE SENT NEXT POUCH•

GP-3®

BT

"TOP SECRET

---

