# 104-10521-10024

## Page 1

104-10521-10024

128/9/65

SECRET

PR2 MC.

PERSONAL

RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

TSSTRLETIOSS TO CASE OFFICEA

DISPAYCE 4O.

Pelled do de the e

8.

P**:

22522525050

"ast só'po trador rono, el posseblas and 100 681 como

8808898 1888

CHrPYOnva

SECTtOa

CONTACT AND DEVELOPHENT

INDICATE NOS, DURA, INIBA, DOT, ANO DO INDA SUBJECT DAS DIAST CONTASTES dN DEUCLOPED.

'O DE TERNRO DUER QUIGRIO DUD TO E SEGURE GROODO DO DEN OSSOJASTBLE CASE ONFICER POR

ta de todo wordes sud meid

48 E

o soro or antia fare mare

110.0e

$0:51!

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

ICTICE !!.

MOTIVATION AN: CINTROL

carmal saeer-s soroor da, so serenied, if postale dare endlence Du nor wre

RIDICATE DAAY CONTROL

ISTS OVER THE

SUBJECT. 18800.

lact of peal control

SECTION 191

COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUMIECT AND CASE EFFICER IN

THE IN MEETIES.

8. COVER USEO DY SUBIECE IN UPiDIAIDE MIS INPORMATION AND IN ESPACTING MIS INFORMANTS.

PEDICATE SEROICE DIA GUICO LE DUE THINES NE

r,1l

nard, (le oorbeng).

SECTION IV

INTELLIGEACE CONNECTICAS ANC TRAINING

77906S6754666

DARE TNTECLIRESLE SONICE. TROTEN R GATEST

3191.98

wittin din

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Personal Record Guestionnaire • Continuation Sheet - AWHIP

Part II

Section 1! - 1

the good life ho had nade there for himself and big family.

(lle is not dolas at all badly in bustess now, but it neans

building it up anor - he is a gen buyer and manufacturer of

fine Jevelry).

Finally, It is felt that his cooperation is to a considerable

degree a reflection of a guilt feeling stemming. from the fact that

De.

as many of the wealthy of Cuba had done, had ignored the

political and social conditions in the country as long as he was

doing well biaself, and did not, when he had the opportunity, take

enough interest in establishing a decent ind responsible govern-

ment for the country." And although he activoly supported certain

anti-Batista guerilias and underground novements with money and

the current Cuban regine.

Section I! - 2

Cuba's freedor, wbich can be achleved only through the resources

and concern of the United States.

Soction ill - 3

icquaintances la the citles he visits for businese reasous.

typo of assessnent Information he obtaina rould be through ellcita-

lon in most cases, and to discuss political feelings and attitudes

amon Cubane today ig normal.

-.:

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

OPERATICAAL

USé

-CONTACT

SUBILER MAS BIRO USCO DA COMTACTIO BIFORI, INDICATE ACTIGITY 19 MICH ME MAS ENGAGIO BAD SOR MUE ON

+ M.

i."'

i. L

INDICATE NOS 'ARO IRON INDU SUBJECI OSTAINS ANORATIO

-1d1350i16.

T;

INDICATE IMAT MAS BELA POLD SUBJECT AS TO POR DISPOSITION DE INIORMATIOR ME SUMISHES.

A. DETAIL SUBJÉCT'S PROPOSED TO OR CI

TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

SUBJECT•S PROPOSED

PROPA IYPE USE DA OUTILY.

SECTION YIA

PROPOSE

DATAIA SUBJECT'A PROPOS

SUBIECE IS AN GOTICIAL MEMBER ON

3 OPEHATIONAL ACTIVITY

AGINIT BICATION

#@.8.8

* / 170

Weller

SICALI

---

## Page 5

14-00000

.: ::.:.

SECTION IN

FOR DOMIA GOLAATIONS.

SECRET

JUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

ABILIPIAS, PALRATO, DE GIALIBIGATIDOS ASSESSIO DO SUBJACE ANICH COLO CONCEIDABLO DE DE VALLE

SECTICH *

1588

S. NJEGO A HIGILAR

S:0SI0T OR DINER METANO.

CONNI THENTS

LARY, INUICA

TOR REFREY AMUNAT. I6 PAYMIOS 1O DE MASE D ENCHANSE

DETAILS.

SECTION X1

CE AND SECURITY

ISDICATI THE FICLO AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES DITA MMICH SUBJECT-S MANS MAS DELA CHECAÇO ANO THE RESULTS.

1i1.

INDICATE DINCO POVISPIGATINE MIASUHIS

TAGEN TO VERIFY

BIOGRAPHICAL INEORUATION

BY SUBJECT.

:!...

IMPROVAL DR OPIHATIONAL AP.

4. DETE APPROVAL

#HOVAL

"antimid

BLEN

POSSIBLE.

ENALUATE SUBIECI'S CHARRETEN.

ALTAS

SECACI

---

## Page 6

14-00000

...

SECRET

AVCCATIONAL

SECTICH AITO

INTERESTS

INDICATE SUBIECE'S

METRIES OR TAPERIST TO SO:DIS.

susiC.

#PE.

SECTICH KIV

GUE THER

OF A COUNTRY ON

AS GUAGE ABILITIES AL

EGION DINER THAN MIS DE

OTHER CHARACTERISTICS. ONE SUGM AS ME COULO MASS AS A NATIVE

.?.:

IADICATE

WHETHER INFDRMATION

CORRESPOSDENCE ON OTHER

MOMS'" PRO PARTS I AND 11 MAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTIME ASSESSANT, PILES.

!?.:

.:::

.!i.

*OUPLAS ACTION IS REQUIREO, IN AND ANTA TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PIRASE EXPLAIN.

(Also

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY COMDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE BULL DETAILS

MAKING

CONTACT USE, E. RICOGHITION SIGERS.

$. 8:

SHERE COULD COSTACT BE MADE, AMAT BONA BIDES COULO INDIVIDUAL

.. ..! •

•::::

..te

SECTION AVI

MISCELLAAECUS OPERATICRAL DATA AND REMARKS

+018

TWEW......

SECRET

---

