# 104-10186-10118

## Page 1

104-10186-10118

A ATON.

• REPORT

N FORMATION

REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENÇE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTAY Cuba

SUBJECT Gines GORRIZ

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSC1-316/01231-64

6 October 1961

CSCI-316/00369-64

24 July 1964

DATE. OF 1964

INFO.

D. C.

FIELD REPORT NO

INS IS UNEVALUATEO INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE OPINITIVE APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS VENTAINE.

SOURCE. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nal Reproduce

4

2

it is requested that the addressees take no action on any ol

he individuale mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

1..

GInes*GORRIz, pseudunym!"G11," is in charge of the

British Guiana

desk in the Seccion Sur (South American Section)

ol the Departamento de Liberacion Jacional (National Liberation

Deroctorate need thener - Dollen March 1964, en visiteneral

British Guiana.

Source boltoves that GORRIZ was a member of the

GORRIZ was described as having been born about 1934 and

being five feet eight inches tall.1,2, 3,4,5,6

Headquarters Comments •

1. According to information acquired in September 1961 from an

untested source who was formerly a G-2 member in the Cuban

consular service,

the co-ordinator farthe 26th of July Movement

in Cuba was Gines GORRIN,

who traveled frequently to New

York.

GORRIS was the emissary between Cuba and SANCHEZ,

President of the Movement in New York who had offices at the

Hotel Belvedere and the newspaper Libertad.

STATE

I DIA

ARAY

REP

CINCLANT

(Noro: fiald distribution indiraied by "#".)

FORMATION

KILLSALR

BULAILVE

4/5V

I NAVY

CINCSO #

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Ald

INSA

I&NS

REPO

RIT

I IN IP (O

2 iCI/RES

ILE

JULE

L/H2S1

WE 1 (2),. CI 1,

RID 1

TFBI 2

INI

REPORT

1LX-1696

61A1800 #

Le 1125.

WWK:

00: swl

BÔ:A

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2 .

3.

3.

SECRE

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEN CSCI-316/01231-64

-2=

24

in a report dated ? August 1962, statod

that Gines FORRIZ Castroman,

^ Cuban, had bren granted a visa for

GORRIZ way so attend the Caribbean Games and stay on to

act for Cuban Consul HERRERA who was on vacation.

In a report dated 3 July 1963, 'It was stated that Guines GORRIZ

wits in ex-united States citizon who vas now a "Castro man."

time of this report ho was boing transforred by the Castro government

from INDER tO MINREX which ho was to roprosent in Jamaica.

was born about 1933 and was single.

In a report dated 19 July 19G3, an untested source said that Gines

SAlViO GORRIZ Castroman

was one of the group of eightcen Cuban

pilots, ground-crew personnel, and air traffic control personnel

nich arrived in British Gulana on the tanker

1i Georgetown on 16 July 1963.

In this same report

repora" which disembarked

said that GORRIZ was an employee of the Cuban Ministry

An untested source in a report dated 25 September 1963, stated that

on 19 September 1963, a Bristol Brittania belonging to Empresa

Consolada

Cubana de Aviacion landed in British Guiana and on board

In a report dated 9 April 1964, stated

that Gines GORRIZ Castroman, & Cuban who arrived in British Gulana

for two days on 17 and 18 March 1964, ostensibly as cargomaster on

tho "Cuba"

to superviso the unloading of Fuel oil, had visited

British Gulana on

two previous occasions, July and Soptember 1963.

GORRIZ was Identified as a Cuban Intelligence Servico agent.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSE

^....

---

