# 104-10012-10056

## Page 1

104-1012-10056-

CONFIDENTIAL

CT 315-75

NEL PRESSY

JEV

Tent Ha, 18.3.10

(R123t K9). CAN

CAPLE RED LLY)

18158

PIENES

£X-10931

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Assistant to the DDO

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chief, CI Staff

÷O Lee Harvey Oswald

1. Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file was first opened

under the name of Lee Henry Oswald on 9 December 1960

as a result of his "defection" to the USSR on 31 October

and renewed interest in Oswald brought about by his

queries concerning possible reentry into the United States.

The file contains two Federal Bureau of

Investigation reports, dated 25 May 1960 and 3 July 1961,

respectively, which contain interviews of Oswald's mother

and brother concerning the possible return to the United

States of Oswald and of his loyalty. The American Embassy

in Moscow also sent two telegrams in May and October 1961

conveying Oswald's wish to return to the United States

and five of Oswald's letters asking for compliance with

his request.

The file also contains an Oswald letter sent

to the Marine Corps disputing the Marine Corps discharge

classification of him as undesirable.

It is believed that

the above documents were also circulated among the FBI,

State Department, Immigration and Naturalization Service

as well as Naval Intelligence.

There is also a memorandum dated 16 October 1963

Win Scott, COS Mexiço City to the United States

Ambassador there concerning Oswald's visit to Mexico

City and to the Soviet Embassy there in late September-

early October 1963.

Subsequently there were several Mexico

City cables in October 1963 also concerned with Oswald's

visit to Mexico City, as well as his visits to the Soviet

and Cuban Embassies.

These cables were passed on t

State Department and Naval Intelligence whil

Mexico city Station was told to pass the information on to

Document Number .

1187-436

for FOIA Review on NOV 1976

CONFIDENTIAL

RECORD COPY

18.Sep1975

201 - 289248

con.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENFIAL

the FBI, Immigration and Naturalization Serrice and

Embassy in Mexico City.

4.

There are several other FBI reports dated

October 1963 concerning Oswald's activities in the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee and his erentual arrest

for disturbing the peace in New Orleans in tagust 1963.

These were passed on to the Immigration and Jaturalization

Service..

There are no other substantire documents in

our files prior to the assassination date.

George I. Kalarie

George 1: Kalaris

Chief

Counterintelligence Staff

DDO/CI/R&A/0/

Distribution:

Orig &1-

Addee

po (]8 Sept 75)

CONFIDENTIAL

5: 1-289748

---

