# 104-10247-10014

## Page 1

104-10247-10014

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MESSIGE FOR'I

E CRE TESSINSITIZEDE

D NO INDIX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO

ORIG

LiST

IXT

DATE •

101600/51880

, 6153

G/NPRIL/1903

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR

CONF

DCIWHES.

15-4

TO

PRITYL

Amnerky/'

GOUTING

75T

CA-FA

7

₴ 1

MORELEASE ASPS WES

,C/I, clitz

INFa

CITE DU

99337

REF

70254 (IN 37427)*

20-24

1. PÜLSED SEE PER REF TIAT AMIIP/1 UNLU/19 TALIS MOZARENTLY

BEARING FRUIT. DO NOT WISH INSERT ANYTHING FURTIER INTO TALKS AT THIS

TIME.

2. ONLY FLY IN OINTMENT AS SEEN FROM HERE IS ANIHIP'S REFERENCE

TO "PROMINENT LEADERS WHO SPOTTED WITH BLOOD" WHICH UNFORTUNATE SINCE

ONE DE OBJECIS THIS OP IS TO CONVINCE AS MANY HIGIL LEVEL GOC OFFICIALS

AS POSSIBLE THEY NEED NOT GO DOWN WITH FIDEL. SINCE MOST HIGH LEVEL

OFFICIALS DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARE TAINTED, REFERENCE TO CRIMES

MIGHT CAUSE MAVY WHO GET THE MESSAGE TO CLOSE RANKS WITH FIDEL RATHER

TIAN SUPPORT AND/OR INITIATE ACTION AGAINST HIM.

3. FYI, TO COUNTERACI ANY WRONG IMPRESSIONS WHICH ABOVE MAX

ILAVE GREATED, PLAN LAVE AMHIP IN FUTURE TALKS WITH CNSVAFU/19 INDICATE

TILAT HIS SOURCE OF INFO MENTIONED ODYOKE POSITION ON COLLECTIVE GUILT

EXTREMELY ARROW AND SEEMS INCLUDE ONLY SUCI PERSONS AS RAUL, CHE,

FIDEL PERSONALLY, AND OLD LINE COMMIES. APPARENTLY DOES NOT INCLUDE

MOST OF PRESEVT CABINET OR OTHER SENIOR OFFICIALS INCLUDING MILITARY.

4.

RE REFERENCE TO SOVIET AID, ANNIP BRIEFED TO SAY SOVIETS

COORDIMATIME ORFICERS

CONT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CFFICETS PADACITIS.

Copy Nia

6/01

---

## Page 2

14-00000

#1G.

NT .

ATE ,

MESSAGE FORM

D INDEX

SECRET/RYBAT

O NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO

ROUTING

8

rOM DIRECTOR

INFO

PAGE TWO

INFO

CITE OUR

993.3>

ARE READY TO BACK OUT OF CUBA EFFORT BECAUSE OF BILLION DOLLAR

ANUAL BURDEN. ALSO TOLD SAY PBPRIME WILL CONTINUE ECONOMIC BOYCOTT

FURTHER

UNTIL FIDEL REMOVED. IF E

& CONVERSATIONS ON SOVIET AID DECIDED

UPON BY HOS FOR FUTURE MEETINGS, AMMIIP WILL BE PROVIDED WITH

AMPLIFYING DETAILS TO STRENGTHEN CASE.

5. WHILE DETAILS STILL FRESH IN AMMUIP'S MIND, BELIEVE IT MOST

USEFUL HAVE STOCKWOOD DEBRIEF AMPHIP FULLY ON REF CONVERSATIONS AND

FORWARD SOONEST FOR HQS.

END OF MESSAGE

*171/C/Comment:

Reported on AMVHIP/1 aotivity in Paris with(UNSNAFU/19

on MISPAWN op.

C/NE/3_

WE/5/C

Finest chicle

THOMAS F

C/NE/INT

MELBASITE OPPICEN

REPRODUCTIUND.

003

03

c/v11

SECRE TRYI

Copy No.

510%

---

