# 104-10172-10313

## Page 1

104-10172-10313

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduca

SECRET

IAMON BILLED I99:

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

145T9577999 180 de ingerida 1s no -tu

FROM

DOL: MENT NUMBER

AII

RIAN

OCCUMENT DATE

0FMA-036866

22

ROOM

NO

1613

I

DATE

IBIRIALS

1 JAM 1959 €

COMMENTS

MOTE. Il a copy os arachandle aro remorad lism lie es

so sos durunnar, nos t90 localion al the copy nedior arret

Gatece is sou tanged.

L'E 1/ 01:

1*07

10442

SRICED

13.

18.

RI:FI

G10a

1600K

SECRET

Consto de

barto. 1821

Sidose?

Trato Santtoyad

+974056054ut-Fu

TEe

FILE TITLE

"ECLUB, GRIGORY YE

1..8

r.d

FILE NUMBER

201-150156

ALGOURE

ABSTRACT

71821

CHRONO - DETACHEO

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

221

CF-A = 3694

TO

UNPO

Gr.1o, 15

Chlor, SR

FROM Chief of Statior

SANCT

14-1

ISDCAP • Meeting bestvea G.E. Golub and Willian L.

Costille

TION PrOUD

-- done, for infornation oaly

dEFERENCES

DEFE

30 Iriesber 1958

2 WJ

MAMTO NOR MENDIN

NASTING AQUIBRO

METNO CON ME MCGIO

1 DUALE:10 MO DESE ONLY

lo The picture sier separate cover vas taken at a Cousular Corpa

luncheon at the Searebrune Hotel in Helsinil on liedresday, 10 Deceber 1958.

The indiriduals in tbo picture from left to right are:

an tridertified Consul;

Gob. Golub, Consul fus the USSR; Costillo; unidentified Fin; Virgil Elliot,

departing US Vice-Corsal; Ilvart Alljoki, a Finnand Dean of ste lelsink!

Consular Corps represerting Peru; M. Joris Bellena, Vice-Censil from Belgiu;

and Dennis Lindell, a Inn representing tienduras.

2.

During the jracheon Costille was introduced as the nes Yice-Congul

from the uS.

After too lunon Golus came directly up to Costilia, Introduced him

self and asked Costile to join him at nis tablo for coffee ani cognac. Golub

was extremaly friendir and proceedad to est the usual PRO-I irre questions,

such as Costille's fone in. the States, how long he'd been in finland, did he have

a diplomatio title tidi, ole.

Golub mentioned that his wife was in the Soriet

Union and that ho was Living alone in his apartient. Golud spesks so Englieh,

so Finnish was used.

лi."

2IBR

---

