# 104-10006-10247

## Page 1

1104-7006-10247|

FROM: (Requesters nome) O

BRANCH

TO

RID/INDEX

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REQUESTER

RID /ANALYSIS

RID/208

RID/MIS

RID/INDEX

SURNAME

ROOM

TUBE

ROOM

DT - 5

DT - 6

GT. 7

OW- 6

GT - 6

DT- 5

DEDKOV

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

DATE

SECRET

BADGE NO. =

EXTENSION

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST.

RID CONTROL NO.

[INITIALS

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

Roman Fedorovich @ Vilasa NiKolaerna

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Ocupation, sex, CP membership.

SEX DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

USSR

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

RESIDENCI

Wensle US SK

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

201 CONSOLIDATION

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt

of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across

the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

1.

Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards

and

the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the

consolidation (i.e.,

copy or cross reference

to be placed in the

corresponding card and check (arer (i the

201 file),

below:

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

] YES

I NO

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional In-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

RID

DESK

Note 2.

Information concerning foreig

public personalities

except mili

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

*7997 .

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

One Roman Fedorovich DEDKOV, born 28 March 1927 in Artansk, USSR,

and his wile Vilasa Nikolayevna DEDKOV, born 31 December 1930 in Minsk,

USSR g

appliedafer were listed as applicants for entry visas to Ind1ads

sometime prior to April 1962. DEDKOV, who was issued Soviet passport

number 207451 on 17 September 1960, was scheduled to arrive In New Delhi

for two years as an English language teacher at the Soviet Embassy.

It 15 not known whether or wot DEDKOY actually arrived In New Delhs.

Get sent herruce it shows l

"ome Diet" not classified

a ovicy

sco

10 Aur.964

---

## Page 3

13-00000

00

DECOY, Roran Fedorovich

subj ochoduled to arrive. lew Delhi for two year ne hi

inglish teacher at the Soviet Embasay; Pot 207461 16

17 Sopt 60 (Fios Conment:

Subj 13 presuad to have.arr

soretine after sept 60). NBDS-8509,124 Apr 62

Wife:: VIlasa Nikolayevna (DPOS: 31 Dec 1930; Minak)

D7CB: 28 Mar 19273 Artansk

# + 451-07200-630

201-756978

---

