# 104-10171-10088

## Page 1

104-10171-10088

RETURN: "C

Background Use Onionin

Do Not Reproduce

SENDER WILL CH

FICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

1AA.,0141.

SPRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENGY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

MAME AND 45

DATE

INITIALS

CiRt

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMEMT

CONCUARENCE

there

FLE

ERFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

PECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

recent

have, is the into a in presento

the thinking of this junta

FOLO MERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME. ADDRESS ENO PHONE NO

розм на 237

I-al

ENCASSIFID

Use previeus editors

CONFIDeNTIT

DATE

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

06

S. r. SALONE

MAMORANDUM

To:

Date: •

Mr. Charles Mechen

Seph. 21e 1902

Attached is item from the New York Times

of today concerning the Minolo Ray group.

NEW YORK TIMES -

Sept. 21. 1962

NEW JUNTA FORMED

BY FOES OF CASTRO

Formation of s Cuhan Nevo-

lusionary Junes to seck the

oberthrom ol the Castro regime

by Cubaa ezues am rebela in

Cine who announced here yea.

more lies blemier proes

Carria regime-Peal Chibts,

sno hender lie Mintional Hail-

sats in Jasa, and Manuck lay,

foring

Mirister

Publie

Потня:

Tro othere have been under-

ErDund

coote unators

C'asires forces

in

of

anti-

Cuba Jose

GomrI Rodriguez and Rogello

member

13

: Jasé fa

Ciere Fo san Martin, archllect

and contractor.

The sew coalition, Mr. Chibas

Trported here.

nas agreed apon

last Sunday in Rio Catas, P. R.

One of ils resolutions

opposed

= plan to recruit Cutans Into

Lie Untted

Siates Army.

The

junia said this wou'd

"present

a negative image in the struggle

if lhe Cuban

Communism"

prople againse

silkalich

and

"create

summediation, dependence

and

the Junts

derlarnd. world be

The best strate yhe internal

rpsistante ut lhe people which

will erentually produce a gen-

eral upriung.

---

