# 104-10167-10251

## Page 1

104-10167-10251

DD/077-10014

10080-7:

11 MOV 1377

HEHORASDO FOR: Office of the Legislative Crimsel

FIA:

SA/ ADDO

FROM:

Raymond A. Karsen

Chief. Latin America Division

SUBJECT:

Allegation by a Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning the

Role of Cuban Exiles

the Assassination of President Kennedy

REFERENCE:

LA/C0/258-77 Dated 3 November 1977

Reference is zade to the referent memorandum which

reported a staterent made by a senior Cuban diplomat abroad

alleging that "Cuban exiles such as DIA= Lan (Enu) (sic)

and others had been intolied in the assassination of

President John F. Kennedr."

lie have received

further to date to supplement this infornation.

2.

DDO records indicate that Pedr: DIAZ Lanz, and

his brother larces DIA? Lan,

forerly Chief and Deputy

Chief, respectively, of the Cuban Resolutionary Air Force,

entered the U.S. froa Cura as exiles in nid-1959.

Since

that tine both DIAz Lan: brothers reportedly have been:

closely associated with, and involred in numerous activities

with, Frani: SICRGIS. (aka FIORINI). of Natergate, fame.

Al-

though the indiridual allegedly involved in

the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy could be either of the DIAZ Lanz

brothers, it is noted that the name Pedro DINE Lanz had

been cited in

recent nesspaper items in this connection.

Be refer specifically to the New jori Daily News article

of 20 Septerber 1977 entitled "Ex-Spy Says

She Drove to

Dallas With Oswald & Kennedy 'Assassin Squad' " a copy

of which is attached.

The Agency assisted in the evacua

tion of Narcos from Cuha to Miani, and l'edro entered the

U.S. on his own.

Although both sere debriefed ly the

sidered

there is no indication that they were ever con-

Agency assets.

signed

Haywond A. Tarren

Raymond A. Karren

Attachnent:

Nesspaper Articlo

cc:

16 Staff

201-259716

1189901999568.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onig

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

SUBJECT: Allegation by à Senior Cuban Diplomat

Concerning

the Role of Cuban Exiles in

the Assassination of President Kennedy

DDO/LA/CO/C.Hlopkins:gm 10 Horember 1977 x1491

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - SA/ADDO

1 - 1G Staff

- C/LAD

1 - LA/CO

(Originator)

(LA/CO/Memo Chrono)

(201-259120)

(201-259716V

21-5

BASED ON:

122950 (1 415072), 28 September 1973

OTRECTOR

- 103951,

29 September 1977

122974 (1N 421984), 1 October 1477

21-5

S t

CRE T

ZUOR

---

## Page 3

:.

• de:::

Cr-Spy Says Shu Onire

To Dallas With Oswad C.

Kennedy Assasan Squas

" LI PAUL SIESKIL

sarg that she arcorpanied Lee Marcy Canall r"

"assass suuad to balas a des dags beiore Presitent Kennedy

MarCeed 3.

Fe N0r. 22, 1958. The libase Asassinations f

nee stors.

the Cli aed FEi.

2-212

rani Stragis.

ariado Beera ano

and ta Cubass toadb.

1025 ar: l977.

iSte sa

Caration e:

merrille

minalls fored by lie CiA in 155r in

preparation in lie Ba' o! Fios pa.

55911

_Sitemenis 9h.

reade in Tee larg

n1 to a jadel agent Tere geraai

Fabert

cict coursel

Area gination:

Caramition.

seemed

one illis top in:tiligaiors

isser:

Escribal Ceratisa ≥ as

22•

soilt 3D 20

consistie. oi

Casto Cabang gal imir

Sr.g

claized

2025÷1

Cubau Pres::

•trO

de blured dor

Eresiden: ker=as

ibe. Bay

E3500.

Murited Tatiay Part

• Sturgis adaaed in an alert

ago that te look-paid

Loa in.

in

"There are repacts lost

Ban 40 had in aija gitalion snaa

50:1

"I'm not aria? that cersoral:

Bull they no: d ki i: they hee

1HS93

"Lacert lo. Osmaid.

89h0 111

Keene-iy..

none

Lorer:

Eas.

M.to Ge

mile at's death.

ine farit

Cs.

keen onl

it an fogeraion

meter carers la cone

.8.7

371

+ras0

eas

the sumeer de faelr fall of 1351

said she asiel Saris who the curece

u3s and he pendied:

•"і зʼз ОК

Les thi

sit Crand liter

risited

Cariation 1' Iraisial eamp in the

ela

The

next tiere

w39 al

scaline le

LA:

bam?,

of

Ori:

i.d.

1..

2..

ther tire posal:

gr:21

sie?

1 hors

N07

taut

trig

racan

S59 1 8365 9:8 dip Bilas

7 BACRES #0E26

---

## Page 4

fary soon "fer the

sures colinz sie said

Tee:

a-rile

lin logk ahn:"

aided sai they

.int

?т.c

Ste

809-5:13

"rifles Is seppe:" -

- in tae

When ter reacher Mailse. ste

They ail coocked into

The

Cubara didn': sant a rosen

11:. Lozent continued

B=-h

1o Slio, mi the next da

"And too dais

later-1

9528

08-a

clare to fier Yor's

the ragilit

announced that President Kerzedy

been shet in Dalias:"

she zzido.

t=1

Intoned ci tes

l-id

The eas. yesterday:

Le

hagi

ay knewledge. I Itse: met Geagly io

He said be has

keon

Diz LarI fer Jons

CITE

teen

2.nay house one live

there." streis aisy gaid be

Dallas scieral times kefore

nation,

but te irsi:ted

diere aione and sa; not thera

22, le said, "I tas tre!

ETT

13J:x:5

is

diazi

97.2

thing ost.

Sturgis ud he bade teen gensticuid

aireads

cout de assassiscli:. t

Sense

lizierzale Committer.

•2 Sen.

ale Inteilizere Committe

Hou:

Assa sinatic: Comrailice sed te

fice

President

Precioller's

coremisaior. that levestigator ce

C...

"I told them all that I ta

rectirz

to da mits = r..:

irissin..

lane

tere

Lore.

Later

satre:

papers loos €:

=3 Huten; lootes:

irs

serrail d

15CO

Hata,

8-g

21

---

