# 104-10185-10045

## Page 1

104-10185-10045

i soldie

SECRET

(When Fillod In)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:

cOMMENTS

FI/ D/Ops

TO

ROOM

NO.

G/ FI/D

1502 L

LEA Co

RI D&F

1310 L

3.

FI/D/R

1509 L

DATE

RECEIVED FOMANDID

CFFICER'S

#NITIALS

23/

TOP SEGRET

LAURICLE

FI/ D/Ops

2509 1

5.

6.

7.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

s.

10.

11.

18.

RECORD COPY

15.

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Rome•

OP .. SECRE

AC/ SLOSE

LAURIALE

PROCESSING

Chief, KUTUBE/D

SUBJECT

NO INDEXING MY QUINED

•CAN, MOGE INDETING

ABSTRACT

WICHOFILM

REQUIRED 'REFERENCES

" CROSS REFERENCE O

CATE TYPEN

& June 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRW 18582

MEADQUARTERS FILE NUARDER

DATE DISPATCHE

2 ÷ JUN 19€

CUSSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

03, N 0E UBING

FI/ D/Ops

OFFICE STUDEN

Ibo

14652

DAlE

OFFICER S ALME

Internal:

I - FI/D/ Ops

---

## Page 3

70'

DISPATCH

TOP

Chiel of Statiod, home

Attention: DESMOND OF SHERIDAN

CLASSIFICLTON

SECRET

HELL

PROCESSING

ACTION

MANNEr FN8 19068.X6

DO INCEDAR RESTINEC

.4.51

MEADO, LA: LES DESA

CÃO F.DCE INDEXING

• GESTRACT

Chiel, KUTUSE/D

VECT. LAURICLE

REQUIRED REFÈRENCES

During Rabney's TDY la Rome la April 1961, Clarkson gave him the

name of Tommaso COPDISIERO, owner of the Ent Marisa in Florence, me a

potential spottor for the KUTUBE/D purpose explaised to Desmond and Sterican.

We have now completed the tracing on CORSISIERO in all possible KUBARK tles.

Greenlist. ODENVY and ODURGE iles; results were negative.

We ihould appreciate your making Clarkson available to brief

CORBISIERO and send him on his search mission. The criteria sheet left wich

Sheridat by Rabney in the basic refereace document for Clarkson," but we should

Like to add two items: (a) Da lhe basis of our recent experiences, it may well

turn out to be the case that candicates contacted by Corbisiero through his friende

in the underworld will be unwilling during the firat contact to give their true names

and other data. In fact, thia would be normal, and we anticipate the necosmity of

Corbisiero's revisiting promining candidates to obtain data for tracing parposes

and to make accurate assesments. fo) We streas quality; il Corbintero returne

from Ali firsl search mission with only a couple of candidates, we shall sot be

disappointed. Plenty of patience and a high degree of selectivity will net us more

In the long run than aiming at quick accomplishments.

3.

As we understood it from Clarkson, Corbisiero will start his search in

Antwerp.

Please innure that he does api search in Frauce since we have activities

anderway there with which he may unwittingly cross wirea. We also consider it

inadvisable that he search in Italy.

We have obligated $1000 for Corbisiero'a missioa, to include travel

and ops expenses and pay for hio time. More in available if needed. Regarding

the amount of pay, we leave this up to you and Clarkson on the basis of the time

• spent on the mission and the extent to which you are satisfied that he made a

conscientious and secure elfort. Coats ahould be charged to KUTUBE!D, citing

Cost Center 1123-1030-1000.

'"CROSS REFERENCE TO

SATE TYPED

DISPATCH SI MEDI AND NUMBER

DATE DISPATCION

HEADQUARTERS FILE RUMSER

Thi blutt

CARCE

FI/DLODE

INFICE SYMES.

PREGNATAS?

4652

unie

OFFICIES MALE

Internal:

1 - F1/D/Opa

---

## Page 4

ON

INDOL ANO NO.

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

TOP SECIET

FAILS

OLF: # 16582

5.

To provie maximus security for this effort the following hindling

of trallic has bees coordicates and encablished:

Cables to and from Headquarters to be sent through din

special channel only, TOP SEChET and slugged RYDAI IRRIFLI

b.

Disparches, which we consider lar preferatle lo cables, mll

bo, sent fron Headguarters lo Rome in che origioal ouly in so enralope marko

"To be speed by DESMOND or SHERIDAN osly."

-Dispatches from Rome lo Headquarters to be Mim TOP SECRET

LAUNCLE, iddressed to Chiel, KUTUBL/D, In a realed eavelope marked as fol-

lows:

TOP SECILT • LAURICLE

ZELIFLE

Aen: Chied, KUTUBED

To be opened by Daniel 11. PRESLAND only.

He require tas origal and one copy anly. Necessary lieadquarters coordication

on trallle will be undertaken by Chief, HUTUBE/D wich Chiel, *E.

Il is roquestod that all copies el all trailic ou ZEPLiLE mallers, $a-

cladica Station copies of ClFÀ-27542, be kept iu an eyes only tile in the office

of CuS anú that COS arrange to have INJIE LE cables delivored by his siggel

center to him, only. This is the request we are putting to auy station with which

END CE DISPATCH

Diseribratiso:

1 - Cia. Rore

---

