# 104-10120-10276

## Page 1

104-10120-10276

Backgroune

DO Not Reprod

8 Kay 1963

MEMDRAKDUM FOR. Chief, Technical Services Division

ATTENTION

8 Mr.(

TEFU

Attn: Mr. Gikas

Central Cover Staff

• Attar Mr. James Franklin

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

'8 Request for Official Documentation

WAVE 8138 (IN 32980)

31

It is requested that a

Jand

Civilian Identification Card be Issued In sliza to the SAS enployee

Identified bersunder®

2. The credential should identify the employe

section

32

3.. The credential will be utilized generally in the Southeastern

part of the Inited States and possibly in Latin Anerican in pursuit

of the mission of SAs. Further the utilization of the credentiel will

be on a controlled basis as directed by the Chief of Station, navE.

4o The allas set forth in the attached identity sheet hes been

IDDS/IOS rogistered with RI. Pertinent biographic data has been set forth on

ADDS/IOS

the Identity sheet.

ASST/IOS

5. Photographs for the individual were forwarded to ISD on 6 May

C/ID

1963.

Subject's social security number is

according to the

C/OSD

above roference.

C/SRD

C/AB

C/PB

After the credential has been signed 1t should be forwarded to

• P. Lawrenco, SAS/Security Officer, Room GH-56.

7. Any questions regarding the foregoing matter should be directed

cXI. Lawrence, ext. 5909.

C/SAB

C/SB

• VISA, REHAN COUL

Chief, ShS/Support

A&TS

FILES

cos OS/OSD, COS

0-7:65077

4888

---

## Page 2

IDENTITY SHEEL

" Been de.

gy carine.

THUE

BaInes N. HIDALCO, IT.

ALIAS

Bernard Forma

HILLARY

07

DOB: 27 Key 1919

HEIGHT: 519*

WEIGKT: 165 1bs..

BIES

• Brown

BAIF

* Black

SOCIAL SEE 80-$

055-18-4237

Б.

---

