# 104-10110-10583

## Page 1

104-10110-10583

FORM 30200

74:1 MFC 7076.

C-GLE SEE DISSEN BY

1.. So.)

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIER

ADVANCE COPY ISABESIDENED DOO DO

CTION UNIT

CLA8

FILE.

ACTION#

F

JULI CORE

827187

EL A8 75

1OL TOTAL COPIES

27-2 au

SECRET

or Ril ar 2250 2

TOR: 052245Z MAY 77

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

IsSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITEO

STAEPIEREDENGE

(59.H71 83515

IN 273437

2417

SEC

R_E.T

1L17

852222 Z MAY 77 STAFF

CITE

33023

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

NI ACT DIRECTOR

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF: • DIRECTOR 83012?#

1, BY TIME REF RECEIVED (1820 HOURS AMBASSADOR HAD

GONE HOME FOR THE DAY,

EARLIER HAD DISCUSSED LOCAL

SUMMARY OF FLEETWOOD ARTECLE IN "ULTIMAS NOTICIAS".

OBVIOUSLY UNTIL FULL TEXT IN VENEZUELAN HANDS AND IF AND

WHEN PRESIDENT PEREZ FOCUSES ON THIS MATTER, VENEZUELAN

REACTION WILL BE UNKNOWN, MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND

TOURISM ASKED AMBASSADOR ABOUT CIRCULATION AND IMPORTANCE OF

"NEW TIMES" MAGAZINE- THERE BEING SOME CONFUSION IN

VENEZUEL AN MIND THAT THIS PART OF NEW YORK "TIMES" NEWS PA PER-

AND SEEMED REASSURED BY AMBASSADOR'S REPLY DOWNPLAYING

SIGNIFICANCE OF "NEW TIMES", AMBASSADOR AT THIS POINT SEES

THREAT ONLY IN CAP'S TENDENCY TO ATTRIBUTE ALL UNFAVORABLE

PUBLICITY IN U.S, PRESS TO ALLEGED BKHERALD EFFORTS TO

DESTABILIZE GOV. IN THIS CASE CAP ALREADY KNOWS EMBASSYP

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ABLE REC DISSEM BY.

EASONIUNI NOTIFIED:"

DVANCE COPY IBSURDISLOTTED

CTION UNIT

RF.

_FER.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE!

STAFF

AT

fILE.

VR.

CTION #

N

F

T 827187

E1 A875

PAGE 02 - 02

TOR: 052245Z MAY 77

IN 273437

40221-17

33023 .

HAD DIRECT CONTACT WITH FLEETWOOD AND THUS HAS CIRCUMSTANTIAL

EVIDENCE TO LEAD HIM TO ASSUME THE WORST, NONETHELESS.

AMBASSADOR IS HOPEFUL THAT CAP WILL HAVE MANY OTHER THINGS

TO WORRY ABOUT RIGHT NOW AND THAT THPS ONE WILL PROVE A

NON STARTER.

2, WILL SHOW TEXT OF REF TO AMBASSADOR FIRST THING

6 MAY AND ÄDVISE OF ANY FURTHER COMMENTS, AS STATED, READING ON

VENEZUELAN REACTION WILL HAVE TO AWAIT FURTHER

7

DEVELOPMENTS, IF CAP BLOWS, OTHER THAN

AND

AND

OFFICER'S TENURE HERE,

POPS SHOULD NOT

BE EXPECIALLY AFFECTED. CREST OF OUR EFFORT IS

WE PREPARED FOR THIS EVENTUALITY ONCE BEFORE, WE HAVE NOT

RELAXED SINCE, AND WE DO NOT BELIEVE WE HOULD BE BADLY HURT,

3. NO FILE.

ES IMP DET,

*Ref. attached.

SECR

• E T

---

