# 104-10088-10249

## Page 1

104-10088-10249

Inside Washington

21001.64

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

CIA Withhela Vital Intelligence From Were

cials who actively oppose

And PAUL SCOTT

*Soviet policies

dismissal of such persons

liguid

Titled

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

-The Central Intelli

Soviet so

West-

dreds of

from public office, at oth

form.

times

The

even

having

•within se

suppressed

tly op-

gence

withheld

them "eliminated'

physi-

Agency

ment went int

vital

Russia

cally.

• autopsy 550

intelligence

infor.

ing details of how age

ulopted

with

"Such

ils

use.

mation from the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet

aket-size,

activities' are

• poisons bai

gun,

known

to be

undertaken

• Commission during its in-

police, are trained

ting

only

orders

ed which d

against

until

vestigation of the

other

rom Moscow to

assas

away

with Western

use it.

sination of President

lead

types of

fect

The

Murder

Weapons

persons in the West, not--after being

ers, including officials in

ably

HIGHLIGHTS

defectors from the

"thus allowi

Kennedy.

the

Despite the commis

and to

sion's written request for

their deaths a pear

of

the

make

U.S.S.R.

and from

suppressed intelligence

countries of

due

the

to natural causes.

estimate, which is locked

bloc

when his

in a security area within

"One recently reported

Sover a tr

all documents that might

Kno

shed light

One of the KGB's new.

on the

assas

ly

devised

the tightly-guarded CIA,

source

has

assassination

are

as follows

assassination technique is

sination,

CIA authorities

pneumatica

failed to turn over a na-

wapons 'is "a: pnumati-

"It has

been

electrocute an individ-

poison

ice

tional

intelligence

esti-

cally. operated poison ice. that the KGB

reported

ual

by

thick

lear

"atomizer,. which

Juring

him

to

endeavors

leaves

to remove the threat to

use a telephone, connect-

mate

warning that it is

• no

wound

other evi

Soviet interests posed by

ed to a high-voltage wire,

pr other

Cv

Kremlin policy to remove

_cause oi de

dence

from

public office by as

death.»

of the cause af

certain members of West-

during a thunderstorm.

"Another involves

Congressi

the

sassination Western offi-

gators

who

While this deadly weap

ern governments,

some.

uSe

of

timeg.

pistol

which

arranging for;the projects a poison gas in

that

the

11:

committec

Otter

apprayed

Documents

CRAS

Show briradre

sination

DIPOR

us. intelh

• officials to Speaker

mistration

gence experts

McCormack

(Massi)

Dious ci

Istence

Rassia's. CO-eXa

very du. in line to Succeed Pr

lime, - stress that

cent ohnson

the •Tarter Commit

hare

this

ot the State be

But o and vent

sad been avail.

They

point

t: that

the State Department

officials

warned

Speaker

McCor.

mack, a

it Comminist,

dedicated

anti.

the

that he is on

list of Western

offi-

ciais feared by the Krem-

no

CIA

authority

has shown the No. 2 man

in

goverame

the

report

•cret

nese

CTA

ise

suppressed evidence link-

ing

Oswald with

its

one of

eruplayes,

thro

cording to

securit

report

presented

Soviet views

guestion

Level

that

progressional

con-

Who

in

the beda pie

up

determine

ug document • bas

U.S.S.P.

coratry com

oppressed

tee"

wale he

7723

nember

investigators also

This State Departmeal

wey the cit detes

why the

determina

Dificial's

peared

name also ap

assassination

pre.

in

report

the

address

the State Department on

viet

oi a suspacted So

Oswald's trip

TiMo

City

to Mexico

agent

gave details

only

in

of

the

W.S.

arrived

in

cording

1943, ac

the defector's visit to the

to - government

Fussian embassy

files.

the

Cuban embassy.

and not

The

gators

Congressional investi

CIA did

2150

have been

latter

visit

not report the

shocked to discorer that

Kennedy's

until

after

in Dallas.

assassication

file

p. 8593

The caller foon the

Embass

Catan

was unidentia

vices

851. Compared

1 Fireless

0003095

311 08

PAGE

COPY NO.

319

---

