# 104-10400-10012

## Page 1

104-10400-10012

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

BS.7

SECRET

SUBIZC1: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

C/DDO/ISS/ IPG. 1D4124

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

NO.

DATE

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

iNITIALS.

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

HAr

2.

SATDO/0 2D0109

TUBE: DX 6 GREEN

Zon Walter

Eary

1-2: Sin, the contenan

ntest on t

Bishop and ton, for ling.

a file and Called the Signal,

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

• SECRET

1345₴

03

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

:

Mr.

0/ SA/DO/O

Ms.I

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Mr. Robert A. Barteaux

Chief, Information Processing Group

: Name Trace Request - Morris (or Maurice) BISHOP

SA/DO/0-26 dated 30 March 1977 o

intensive

search of the files and indices of this

Directorate,

including those of IP/Top Secret and Cryptic

Reference, has revealed no indication of any information

pertinent to the referenced request in addition to the

attached memorandum from Domestic Collection Division.

It has been further determined that Morris BISHOP

has not been the

subject of an OGC or FOIA name trace request.

of your office was informed of the

above information by telephone on 5 April 1977 at 1000 hours.

Robert A. Barteaux

z/рV

2 IMPOET Ci Ey 011981

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

H184262

CD/CO Case 42962

377-460

179262

A(3)3, 902, 504

A 35067

14 kay 1964

Bnckzround

and Assassment Informition on Profemor

Cornell Unlvernity

FILE: Morals Bishop Lur 4, 05.00

S4R-038

0817-725

odDavia I Grossvogel (Jolt); Cornell University

1. One of our cleared soureas at Comell Univeralty bum recently confirned

our understanding or Professag,

family and professional back-

cond and his evident antity of Interests in the US and France. Ve

premme that most or all of the important banie biographic date on

05

)In available to DODS. Fur that renson, to will not attempt to

supply any get anount of this excapt an 1t will provide a better setting

Iar thin assessment.

2. Our normal source description for l

source spen to be relevant.

10..

was born in

France. His father 10 a US

citieen.

His mother was French at the time of his birth,

but my since have been anturalized in this country.

spent bie youth starnately la trance or the Us

and grew up to be completely bilingual In these two long-

uages..

He speaks french with no forelga necent.

After attending Ou1o State Univeralty, be took graduate wark

a french a tripeeton, buring this latter period, In 194

he joined the

Free Freuch Forces, was countasioned & Lieutenant

therein and served in Africa under General Leclatr 12 the can-

patgn fren Inke Chad to Tunlals. Inter he was younded in

Italy, neurly toaing his right am an a remultiou se spent

about two fears in a hospital recovering and was enrded

the french Leglon of Honor.

c)

Arter the

war, he completed his aracate work and took e

ponition it buse Univeruity end distinguished bieself In

e)

at this pertieular period.

Sonewhere along tbe Iine, I

was converted to Cathollelm

and ar source decribes hin an a devout Catholic. Bor

Fled (@ French r2) Ison whou he has been separatod in recent

05

Is a great adntrer of President DeGaulle and sows

ata perscoally. So bas a strang and contiming Interent in

Franch politics and while our nource does not knor much of

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELEASE

WIN

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CD/CO Case 42961

on personal, pollticäl foellas; be guesses that

1t l1es In the Center-Fight.

Because he kne an interest in Decaulle and the Gaulliste, has

many friends in french covernment and army cireles and beep

Informed vie the french prest and his on correspondence on

current, conditions in France,l

„In frequently called

upon al Carzell events and beforg (Cornell) aluins groups to

lecture on conditions 1n France 10 le 10 extremely well 10-

forand and does this particular job in a luperior mer.

In addition, he feels aa obllention to explain Docaulle's

end caulist vlevs in this country when be 1s assed to do so.

05

Our source deseribedi

as being an Idealist and an

entrustast, sno 18 Inclined to jut these feelings Into actios,

as for example wben be Jojoed the Free French et & time wben

each at a time vee

the Us was not actively fighting the Germans.

At present,

118 In Franoe on & frant which allous

pie to work on the mnscripte of the late French author,

Bernanos! According to our source, his selection for this

grant represents an honor aning scholars.

In addition to the above pointe, our source confirmed our edsting over

all Impressions about l

which have been included in Ales and menon

about him forurded over the past six years. In the cimmmetances of bia

family and cultural heritage, it 1e quite natural thatl

develop an notive Interest in Prance and mattera French.5Fls publle

explanations of present conditions 1a france reflect his continuing

close ansociation with his friende and associates there, muny of whon

are in polities, government or the ilitary. Our source agrees with us,

however, that this 19 not, ouse of divided loyalty betreen the Us and

France. He feels that (

Ms & loyal Anerlean who bas & long

standing and legitimate interest in France. Fran our own contacts with

050

we can not dingrue with this.

socess to people in Trench goverament and army circles lo

best expressed In the series of reports submitted fram him under Cases

40413, 37605 and 35133. A revier of th1s matartal vill provide clear

evidence of the range of his personni annociations In france Iron Presi

dent DeGmalle on dovis.

During the years of our contiming contact with

-05

ve have never

had reason to question his discretion or personal canduct.

He appre

clation of Agency reguirenents that ve have discussed sith him has been

clear and camplete. Il maything, he bas becone more aara of our needs

as his experience with un has increased.

18 & bright, alert,

14/TV

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CD/00 Case 42961

personable Individual tho has s tide range of Interests. Our source agrees

with us, Iseidentally, that his impact on Cornell)alum! Eroups must be

both considerable and favorablo.

6. While our experience with

has been bota positive and productive,

we would empbasize one polat..

The dewads made on his in our callection

of fit and the slatance he has provided an entirely different from

-thone that would prevall under a relationahis with the Do/P. Our rela

tonship has been able to complementi

ability to explain the

Gaullat vier in a vay that will serve his om government and which will

not dange his personal and professional contacte and associations in

Franed. In other worde, the collection of Fit - which In thia Instance

has been substantial - 1s a farn of cooperation under vich

protected. The neede and operations of the DD/P, on the other hand, '5

introduce & strong and contiming element of risk for him. we have been

8840d to 888208

_possible performance in an actual "approsch"

The potential 1n 'approach" 'and "recruit.

ment' situations 1s to us quite formidable bIt tases no stretch of the

ImElnatloo to foresee the ruin of

professional career 1n

France. (and possibly here as well) or lons of hla Long standing Iriend-

shipe there if ao operation involving hin were to go sour.

there 1a no

reason to belleve that be will not recognize this potential Inmediataly

11 operational mutters are discussed with him. Frankly, we can not.

predict his renction to this sort of thing, but ve doubt that be 10 naive,

let alone naive enough to put hinsell voluntarily under the guillotine.

To As we have indicated earlier,

travel plans in test brop

are for the moet part, littlo knon by his associates at Cornell, " Thia

1a by desiga to eve

the widest freedon of movement while be

v111 not be

to france and mill spend the mmer traveling, probably in other countle

of West Barope, Before be left Ithaca 1e dun 63, be tole us that be

would lise to drive through the Scandlattan countries during this coma.

sumer, but we bave no vay of coaftruing this now. Imo, It would appear

wild spend very little time In France from here on out

very little time at any one place in Went Europe for that matter..

- 8.

A second cleared source at (Corn) outalnel the above brief travel plan

who visited thaca last veekende Belleving

Dor this office to have

Jon 3 Jun 64 at 5:30 PH In Hew Yank City.

In the event that s DD/P representative would wish to meeti

Tat

that time, L

could keep this appointment 10 hia company.

0.5

03

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CD/Co Case 4296

Thls sppears to be the only opportunity to met vital

darling

his briel perfod 1n the US Dext manth.: Our CorDall source can breat

the appalntaent 1l there is no deatre in DODS to leep it. Our caincelo

lation 1111 have to be don by 1111, 1n the lo of = letter Iron our

source. Far this reason mullelent time v1ll have to be allound for

the malls. Please advine in whather or not this appolatment should

Do kept at the earllest pornible monent, certataly by a0 iny.

end.

FARCELL

---

## Page 7

13-00000

CUNHIUENTIAL

DCD-194/77

5 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

FROM

: Ruth Elliff

DCD/ FIO/PAO

SUBJECT

: Morris G. Bishop

Attached per your request are full text copies of all

the material in

DCD's. files on Morris G. Bishop.

it Ellift

RUTH ELLIFF

Attachment:

As Stated

E2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

13-00000

129262

4400

Haces Bichy.

903 Huckef Read, Ithaes, New York

42461

Budilier

3/1116x

Se 111-3,900,509

FUL TE COPY - CO POR PELIAS!

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SYR-460

129262

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE : 9 June 1964

TO

: Chief, Contact Division, 00

SUBJECT: BISHOP, Morris Gilbert

FILE NO: 264780

A124262

Jup:

160

1. Reference is made to your request for a security clearance on the subject

person as a source of intelligence information.

2.

This

is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with

the following results:

Bro

No additional information has been obtained, except for such

biographic Information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b.

Information has been received that Subject was investigated with

favorable results in

c.

Certain information has been received and appears in the attach-

ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining

the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying

information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be dis-

closed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by

a different

name, this Division should be notified immediately.

Malibun

Chief, Personnel Security Division

Attachment:

State Passport Report

1 0 JUL{964

APPROVED (CAUTION)

- THIS CATEGORY IS ASSIGNED BY INDEX

•FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY. THE

FIELD CHIEF DETERMINES LEVEL OF

CLASSIFIO DISCLOSURE.

88 JUN 1964

10 JUL 105

I0 Retarde

---

## Page 10

13-00000

CONFICENTIAL

BISHOP, Morris Gilbert

#25t 780

18 May 19644

On 15 May 1964, the current passport file of Morris Gilbert BISHOP

was reviewed at the Passport Office, Depertment of State. The follow-

Ing Is a sumary of the Intoration contalned therein:

Date of Brth: 15 Apr11 1893 at Willard, Ney Yort.

PASSPORT ISSUED:

At Washington, D. C., on 14 March 1962, Number

C195699, for two months to violt France and Italy

for the purposes of study and recreation.

SUBJECT's current file contains no Information of a derogatory

nature.

JHT /me

10 Jul

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT. RELEASE

GONFICEUTIAL

GROUP 1

Excluded i y meal.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

16 Apr11 196%

129262.

CHLOT, SYRACUSE F1

ROSS

CASS-42961

OFF ICE

MORRIS G.

A29262

SIR- 460

BISHOP

SECRE

BU

D 1.

Security

#3039

FÜLL TEXT COPY - ES MOT RELENCE

---

## Page 12

13-00000

226 MAR 1964

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1.

SUBJECT'S LAST RAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME

BISHOP, Morris Gilbert.

2. ALIASES

si

A129262

480

6.

PULL NAME OF GROWER, BATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, GTIZEMGHIE

3.

NO.

Budeliu

сак 429k

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

15 Apr 93; Willard, New York

SEX | 5.

•CITIZENSHIP

M

US

FROM

RCBIDENCES (Includino No, and Strect, Zone, E.Y.D., etc.)

COMPLETE ADDRESS

Present

903 Wyckoff Road, Itbaca, New York

I CONTINUED

FROM

1921

1942

1943

1944

Fresent

1943

1944

1944

1945

ENPLOYMENT

NAME OF

Cornell University

Office of War Information

Outposts Service

Member of Staff, Psychological

Warfare Division, US Army,

Beadguarters Third Army

Headquarters 12th Army Group

Ithaca, New York

Washington, D C

London, UK

• CONTINUED

FROM

TO

1913

1914

1926

EDUCATION (High school, college, praduate wori, etc.)

NAME OF

ECHOOL.

Cornell University

Cornell University

Cornell University

AB

AM

PhD

DEGREE OR MAJOR

17 CONTINUED

ADPITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME. CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

Subject Is now Professor Eneritus at Cornell University.

31 Tuor/964

GROUP-4

Emined tron atomatte

deweyrading so.

declassiliestat

CONTINUED

---

