# 104-10057-10216

## Page 1

104-10057-10216

EX- 01655

Capuri tom adociment

in the dor

5 Now. 67

Levison. ques states.

1o Martin iuther itiu 35o,

born 15 January 1929 In Atlanta, Georgia,

has been describod as the most prominent leader of the civil rights moverazi

in the üs. fe is the President of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

(SuiC), and 1s a recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize.

2. In Subject's many activities in the civil rights movemäst, he has

sought and relied upon the advice of various individuals, including the

following:

Bayard RUSTli-kenber of the Young Conunist Leazue fron 1935 to

1941, socretary to Subject fran 1956 to 1960, Secretary of the

SCLe in 1962, diy and organizer of the March on lagitagions 1965.

RUSTIN attended the Sixteenth National Convention of the CrusA

in 1957 as a non-Communist observer, and has especially ective

In advising Subject on formulating a position on Viet Nazi la 1965-66.

Be Clarence JONES-General Counsel to the Ghandi Society for Fura!

Rights, and former menber of the Labor Youth Leagued a Comunist

front.

# 465701

Go: "Stanley "LEVISON-Ideological donaunist and suspected secret mender

of the CPÜSAs

D.

Harry NACHTDL-Isecutive Vice President of the Chandi Society for

Human Rignts;nember of the National iaryers Guild, a Corsurist

front.

SECRET

D 000 9451

---

## Page 2

13-00000

harry BalrONTs-yenber of too joung Connurist ieague before

coming into prominence as an entertainer.

3o According to a sourco uno is consicered unrellable, Subject net nith

various leaders of the Italian Communist Party and of the Itallan Socialia, Fang 01

18 Septembar 1964 in Rome. (Subjeet was in zone on that dato as part of a

tour of Western Eurbpe.) He allegedly distessed with these Italian

politicians the demonstrations against

segregation in the US which fare to

be organized in Italy during the following caths.

4. TheVoctober 1964 issus of Vie luove, an Italian weekly magazine

owned by the Italian Connunist Party, (PCI), carried an article entitled

mihat le legroes Ask of the President" which lie luoin claimed Subject wove

for its exclusive publication. The article concerned the civil rights

question in the US and did not appear to be cirected specifically to a

Connunist audience. Despite, the data of jis publication the article appeared to

nave been written some months before.

5. An article appearing in the lashiazton Post on l lovenber 1964 stated

that Subject was planning a visit to the Soviet linion. he reportedly had been

-SEORET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

invitod to the ussa, but Rev. Ralph AbERNATiS, spokesman for Subject,

rerused to comment on the source of tho invitation.

Based On:

201-760966 (KING) L

201-275804

083 17372

(RUSTIN)

DD369161

CSCI- 316/02051-64

-6783

The following documents, held in RID/SD, were not reviered;

TS-188603

TS-188606A

TS188613

DSB-17872 and DBB-17192, which contain information essentiel to Subject?s flle,

both. appear to have pages missing.

The above memorandum was basod exclusively on that information contained in

Subject's very incomplote 201 file.

No attent ras made to inton

pexnxk06% locate or consolidate other information concernin

Subject.

Steve Murchison

5 November 1967

SECRET

---

