# 104-10186-10228

## Page 1

104-10186-10228

LINFORMATION REPORI INFORMATION RE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ORT

1A. C' BC

ananot so an unauthoried porara in sechisaled ay lew

SECRET

NO FOREIGS

DISSEN

COUNTRy Cuba

SUNECT Arturo BERNAYDEZ Tolleria

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

3

2

CSCI-316. 01237-64

8 October 1964

.. 192.

2

RETURN TO CIA Y

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACQ. October 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

¡NIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE ORADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A formor Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

leadquarters Comments

The following report is ono of a series containing personality

information provided by tho source

and includes supplemental

Information from

the records of this agency.

It 1s requested that tho addressees take no action on nuv of

the

individuals montioned in the personality reports without

Iirst checking with this Agoncy.

Arturo HERSASDEZ Telleria sas a sorgeant in BATISTA's

police force; he necompanded BATISTA when he was ovcrthrown and

escaped to Santo Domingo.

After a few days HERNANDEZ returned to

HERNANDEZ is now tho Chief of Archives of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

HERNANDEZ was born sometime prior to 1919.

He is five

fect. Py, anches tall, 180 pounds, has a heavy build, and gray

Headqunrters Comments:

1.

In a report dated 5 August 1959, a fairly reliable source

stated that Arcuro TELLERIA Hernandez, a sergeant, 1s an

agent in Bureau "A" Archives of che Technical Department

of Investigation of the National Rerolutionary Police (DTIPNR).

2. In an official directive issued by the Technical Department of

Investigation of the Cuban Revolutionary Police on 20 April

1960, Arturo TELLERid Hernandez was listed as a sergeant

in the s

Archives Section.

This report mas dated 19 October 1960.

STATE

¡ DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

¡Noto Field destrbution lodicoral by "=".

AIR

1875

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

INSa

I OCR

PBI 2

INFORMATION-REPORI

RATION RERORI

BH/SA EOB 1

INELS/R

LX - 1819

NO, PROJECT (AVMUO/1)

CSCI-316/01237-61

4/BR

WH/SA

(1), NE 1 (2), CII,

RID 1

41018009

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FONEIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/0123/-04

-2=

A usually reliable source, in a report dated 12 August 1963,

Hald that one Arturo

TELLERIA waS

a sergeant in the Technical

Department of investigation (DI).

NO

S

ECR

E T

FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

