# 104-10071-10100

## Page 1

1104-1071-10100

DISPATCH

10

Chief, VH Division

INFO.

Chief, WOMUSE

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Margaret RANDALL de MONDRAGON

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

RYBAT MHALPHA

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Action Required:

See paragraph 3.

Reference

: HMMW-16296, 5 April 1968

The following items

from LIBIGHT/LIMUD coverage

concern contacts of Subject who are believed to

be of interest:

A.

Attachment A:

A letter from CAW,

magazine of Students for a Democratic

the

society.

signed

by

Jerry *BODANES, thanks Margaret for her poems

which

they are using.

The magazine is scheduled

be oit the press arouná may iû.

ine letter cieariy

indicates that the SDS was behind the student seizure

of Columbia University.

It says,

"Right now our

glorious brothers have

seized Columbia University-

now named Malcolm X University--and over which an

N.L.F. flag now flies.

The others, faculty, deans,

managers,

axe all scurrying and speaking pious--

saying SDS this, SDS that,

while we hold

five

buildings in joyousness

and the most serious

preparations to resist,

our movement has

over reached."

Enclosed is a check made out against the

account of

the SDS in the Chemical Bank New

York Trust Company,

2681 Broadway, New York, for

the amount of $50, and

signed by Robert M. *SHAPIRO.

Continued.

Attachments:

As listed (9), h/w

Distribu n

Orig & 2 - C/WHD (w/atts - 1 copy each)

2 - C/WOMUSE (W/o

• atts)

7538

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 34588

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

Exclude:

DATE

20 May 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTAUATION OF

* DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-34688

Attachment B: Letter from Heiner *BASTIAN,

1415 Kearny

San Francisco, California 94135,

signed Heiner &

Celine.

BASTIAN has made arrangements

with the editor-in-chief of AKZENTE to publish works

of revolutionary poets, and he asks Margaret's

help in collecting them. BASTIAN says that he is

going to Berlin about 1 July, to Prague in early

autumn for a "group 47 meeting," and to Cuba in

early November.

Attachment C:

Letter from Jaime *CARRERO,

Art Department of the Interamerican University in

San German,

Puerto Rico.

CARRERO has apparently sent

Margaret a series

of drawings based on Dr. Martin

Luther KING's assassination.

He describes them as

"poetic...but full with guts and disgust."

He says

a possibility CBS will do a program on

paintings and the work in his Art Department.

CARRERO is going to Columbia University in the

summer of 1968 to study and plans to distribute

El Corno there.

Attachment

6th St.,

to. 3, New York, to go

Letter from Susan *SHERMAN,

She tells

her plans

on 23 April to speak about the conference for their

week of protest activities.

tells Margaret

that there are

three people in Cuba she thinks

would be interested in

"The Hippie Book."

They are

JoSe *BELL Lara, of Calle J#556, Vedado, Habana,

who is connected with Pensimento

Critico;

psychologist Gustavo *TORROELLA,

Marianao, Habana;

and Lonania *ARUCA,

99-4722,

MINREX-Direccion

de Organismos Internacionales,

Depto. ONU 516, La Habana.

Attachment

Margaret got a letter from

someone associated with CATERPILLAR.

thinking

of getting married to Marie *BENOIT in England this

summer when he

there to work in

applied

philosophy.

Therefore, he tells Margaret he cannot

go. to Cuba

An interesting development was the

fact that Margaret RANDALL received a letter from Moscow from

Luis *SUARDIAZ, whose return address was given as the Cuban

imbassy, Moscow,

SUARDIAZ asks for Suzan SHERMAN

(see paragraph ID above).

SUARDIAZ says he will be working

as Cultural Counselor in the Cuban Embassy and hopes Margaret

in touch with him and send him things of interest

(in a literary line).

In attachment G,

Sergio MONDRAGON, Subject's husband,

indicates, that Margaret RANDALL is planning to travel to

quarters may wish to send

some background information

on Margaret

F=N

53 g

Ma patrols 50.1.044

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PAGE NO.

_CONTINUED

2 of 3

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• CONNUATIÓN OF

DISPATCH

ELASGIFICATION

SECRET /RYBAT

HMMA - 34688

4.

Attachments H and I concern a book which

Margaret

is hoping

to write on Fidel CASTRO.

According to Sergio's

letter of April 18, she is planning to go to Cuba in October

with a tape recorder,

and then,

based on these tapes, will

write her book.

Sergio

suggests Doubleday as a publisher;

however, on 25

April 1968 Paula McGuire of Pantheon Books

(attachment I) wrote Margaret saying that publisher might be

interested.

It is

suggested that WOLIME may have contacts

in these two publishing houses.

for

5-54

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PAGE NO.

3 of 3

---

