# 104-10209-10256

## Page 1

104-10209-10256

Files

M. Do terena

TIT LIE HARVEY OTHE CAS

(address Look:)

1.

"Reference is inde to nores in DILD's address book which

are

furliced in an IBI cerorandu of el ecenber 1y63, vaica lists jortlons of

the address book found anong O'VAL''s gersonal effects at the tine of his

arrest in Dallas.

2. The followlug notation azerrs on nage 29 of OS-ALD's addreas

book (raze 12 of the FBI renorantue):

Kozlova (woman's surnare)

1-03400

(telephone nurber)

(752)

(possile -clepare ex.entioa)

Security Indices contain Inforration on a mmber of woven witt

the tare KOJOVA, rone of when con be identified es being the individual

In question; but any of bos night be.

KOZLOV,

Oly-glada KO.IOVA, US-16332, 13 the aunt of Nikolal Vasillevich

SION 3-D,

CI/:15 tas inforration on FOMOV w.ich rakes reference to verious fergle

relatives of his by the name NOLOVA. Olyaplara NOTIOVA, a pro:essor, 13

• tbe Director of the lioscon Inctitute of Engineering end Econonies. The

1a setive follticolly, often travels abroad, and in Hovember 1901 14a

scheduled to travel to isshington, D.=. vith a scientifle group. It

shouli be posaible to obtsin this coran's telephone nucber for cougarison

with that listed in OSKIND's address book under the name KOcIOVA.

5.. One 'Valentina KORIOTA, ISC," ves observes to arrive at the soviet

Micsion 1n Talyo on 1l June 1956 at 10:45 hours and to depart at 12:07 bars.

She sas not hurtber identified in our information.

3, and in the un in new Jord city

195k.

il:

12410

2040

SECRET

M. D. Stevent

---

