# 104-10290-10156

## Page 1

104-10290-10156

* 201

90 31 4908

÷ *

19 9

89436

POUT I NE

rohi

BORN

SEX I

PESAND

TKÀE EAST - APRICA BRIBF

(NOTORN IN SLANTS, REMAINING INFO

1. ADEN: BRITIS& AUTEORITIRS IN SOEN ARE INVESTIGATING THE

POSSISILITY TEAT TAS BOKBING INCIDERT WHICH TOOK PLACS AT ADEN

AISPORT ON 1D DEC WAS PART OF AN ORGANIZED CONSPIRACY.

THE BRITIS!!

JAVE ROUNDED UP A NUMBER OF LEADERS ON THE POPIB'S SOCIALIST PARTY,

AN ARAB. NATIONALI8T ORGANIZATION, AFD HAVE CAZORTED OVER 200

TEURNIS FROM ADEN IN THE DARE DE MUE INCIDENT:

ARB FRARFUL THAT TRE YEMENI REPUELICANS, ASSISTED BY SEE GYPILAS,

ARE PLASHING DO MOUNT A SADIAGE CAMPAIGN IN ADEN.

2. CTERUS:. //TOP GREES OFFICIALS HAVE TOLD TRE: CYPRIOT FORGIGY

MINISTER THAT GREBR ARNED FORCES HOULD BE COMMITTED QUICKLY AGAINST

AMY TUPKIBE MILITAPY IRTERYSRTION ARISIN. OUT OF TIN CONSTITUTTONAL

CRISTA :1E CYPRU:

SIT! AN ARSURAVER COULD TUITIER ENFOLDEY CIPRIS

PiPSIDENT MARARTOS AND UNDERCUT CURPENT CRITISU ERFONTS 20 FOSTEN

#1td11!is

GEHEN IEATING

SAC IRT

a tea dicta, is end

2РHH0 1010017 21 111

Lose N19,

---

## Page 2

111

14,3.15

073 9103

83436

SCOTLATION. A FIRKISA PORRIGA NIMISTRY OFFICIAL SAID THAT. AI

THOUGE ANITA RECOGHIZISS MARAIDS DE TRAVILY CONTIRE TO OOFTITUTIOR

EVISGA, TURNY, TOO, IS DEARLY COMMITED AD PREPARES TO "CO ISS

LIMIT" IN SUPPOST OF TRE TURKIES CYPRIOR COMESTY AL

3. MALE: LONDEATENED DEPTITIONS PRON TES SOCIALISE (PSI)

ARD CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTIES ARS UKLIKELY. TO DEFEAT FISHIER NIBO

IN THE PARLIAVENTARY VOTE OF DONFISHES NEXT WEEK, BUT THEY MAY

RAISE SITIOUS DOUETS ABOUT TIE VIABILITY OF TE COALITION.

RECENT

LETTING SOCIALIST AGITATION FOR SORE INPLUENIA POSTS WITHIN THR

MAT- RISK EXPULSION PY VOTING AGAINST THE GOVERVIENT.

OVER THE TIG

RUN, TIB: KSY FACTOR LAY DE TE ATTITUDE OF CHRISTIAN DANOCENTIC

(CONF)

MID OF LESSAGE

ten, ranie tong

---

