# 104-10071-10205

## Page 1

104-10071-10205

REPORT COVER SHIRT

PROCEOSIND ACTION

GAP00T0

i Mont to

REMAINS GAIN CHIAT

TEPORT HORGREE

VrO- 0600

DATE OF RUPORT

22 October 2000

PRoJaCT

BOURCE CRYPY

VOAMBER - 6

FIELD DIOTRIDUTION

OPO DATA ACPOOTOO ORPARAPALY

CO OIDOGGIMATION

POCE OI808MIHAYION

HID AP

To ouT Pouch

Stato

Cuacome

USCG

@LAALCIINTAL DATA

DYVOUR SMPALM PBRUMEN

Parad. 1 - 5:

SOURCE a an a can a la ma send the an arta don an

anigre identified by

got parad.

2-44

Prem Manferrar, and para. 5 from Eugone L. MAXIMILIEN.

6-0: AMOT Source

FrOm OLSA.

HIDE

11oa0e

Inder fur field:

Name:

PAARLIEGRO, ANGOLAITO

DOD

POD

•L20 DUN

Croot

SOn OL AnBeiNO ALLIEERO.

former Cuban senator.

Re Subj'o

Involvoment In plana

for aetion against Cove of Haita

reforenco

to:

202-042669 (Rolando MASFERRER ROjaG)

201-239208 (Manual RAY RIverO)

201-270456

(Jean Baptiate GEORGESD

201-820655 (Antonio IMBERT Barreras)

Group 2: Excluded from

Autonatio Doungrading

and Declanoiiication

22-9-36

100-9-16

•.88 1487 *

COPY

8655

---

## Page 2

Page Denied

---

## Page 3

Page Denied

---

## Page 4

14-00000

COMTIDEFTLAL

CONTROLIED DISSIA

NO FORKIEN DISSIA

- 2-

UFO - 8600

approhanded by Deninion anchorition despito the feet that

the man had doslared that tha arzo vora for sale to tha

O1IL1a8y.

Contiago loy Ferna

Influents with the governent of President Jeequin Balaguas.

Pathar Coorgas will be the loador of the Haitian "inourneo-

tiea."

Antorrer oald that in view of the arrast of hio culocary

tha Denialoan Rapablie ho van returning to boy York for a feu

daya antid all us calm again.

Ns added that the halp of Imbary

end cortaln other frionde In the Doninlean Rapablle wag baing

given without the approval of the balaguar governent.

On 1 Cotabas 1986 Eagane k. Marinillen,

Haitian Consul Conoral

In Fions, onid that Pathor Ceorgoo violt to Mlent wao to make

a payment for vas nate siale and

vassals purchased by

Mastoryer.

Moriallion onld that Pathar Coorgea had raceived 41, 000 fa

Paul Magloira, forner Prooldent of Malti, about tro

carlier and 07,000 fre Canada.

Mariallion oaid he did not

know the sent the noney from Canada.

Soarso of tha infomation la paragrapha 0 - 0: A nanter of a

mop of cuban enigres trained in

the techniques of Inforation

cliention. The grop has provided usaful raporte aines 1981.

againor the haltion ragina.

Oled cald that in Now York Maoforror

hod sold hin that ha (Oload would be anior of operations. heart.

ing to plea, norion nauspagaman vere with then fras tha tina

they loft los fort until they arrived in Mlord, sarisg notion

ploturos all the sino. No remarted that oinos arriving la road

ha had found inferrare activities very errange.

Ra sided that

ho thought nothing sofinite man going to take plaes, and that

ho had doolded that ho would not take part in the procedingo.

Olen cald that unan ho had asked Mnsferrss for toss guns for

prentic cooting Masterror had offered hin song rifleo but had

told his that he sould haw to buy his own bullets.

He added

that most of tha gua Monterror had vara useleno.

Further,

olen cald, ho hed norlead that a ma he knsu enly aa Papito"

ms clocals nonestated with kinsferror and alco worked for the

When "papito" had loured that Hasferrar

m chinking os ernalerring hio roup to the Doninion hopablio

bo had Imitatoly obtalnod a Dominioan viea.

0.. Osen complainod chas Maolorrar had given bis caly $100 la Minal,

and thas ha hod spont about 0350 fer roon and board for himsel!

and three ottoms.

No added that ho had had an argument with

Manfersus becauss the plan vas not a serious matter.

a matraad to los York and dil not plan to cose

APERTURE CARD SUBM

ASP20D

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Cas o8 Masterror®, non uho vent so tha Denialena Boraalla

earryingio mall quantisy o8 on and maltion

bod boan

approhamed by baninion authorition despito thn feet char

the man had declared that the are vern for cade to the

silitary.

Influnos vith sha government of Presidant Joaquin Balagan.

Pother Georgon vill Do the leader of the Haltian "Incurred-

Blen."

Nonferror onid that in vien of the arront of hio enionary la

the Dennieon Repailly he une returning

to Mow York for a

days entil all mo sain agala.

No added that the holy os Inbor

$.

6.

On 2 Cotobar 1900 Eugene 1. Mminilien, Hastian Consul Caneral

In Mont, Bald that

Fathor Coorgoo' vioit to Minni vas to nara

a payaant for var nateriale and vossals purchased by Manferrer.

Mariallien oold that Pather Georges had recolved 18, 000 Pm

Paul hagloir, formar Froaldant of Haitl, about two wease

carlier and 1% 000 fraa Canada. Marlaillen sald ho did not

know who sant the noney from Canada.

Sosses of the information la paragraphs 8 - 0:

A somber of a

coup of Cuban engros trained in the Cochniquo of Inforuation

collertion. The gramp has provided unalul reporte cince 1962.

In Late Soptozber Hanuel Oles, Cuban angra

cald that

Masferrer

had bronght his from New York

to take part in an operation

against the Haltion rogies.

Oled sald that in Now fort Knsferrar

had told hin that he lOleal soald bo anior of oparationa.

ACan

Ing to Olaa, Marican nawpaperan vera with then froz the tias

they loft bon York unill they arrivod in Mland, saling socim

pletaras oll the tins." lo roarted that vinco

arriving in Alant

ho had found Masterror a activitios vry etrange.

Ho added that

he thought nothing dafinite us going to

take placs, and that

ho had desided that he would not take part in the procodings.

Olen cald that when ho had asked lnoferrer for beza

practios shooting Mastormr had offored his son riflos but bad

told ain that ho vould hava to bay his own bulloto.

vie addos

that soat of the duno Masterror had vera toaloss.

mas closaly nonculated with Maoforror and alco sarked for the

Baltion Conoul In Kiant.

Whon "Papito" had learned that Masterrer

•.. Oles complainod that Mautorror had given hia enly 0100 la Miani,

and that ha hed

spont about 0850 for room and board for hinael!

and three ochors.

Ho added that ho had had an argument with

Restarror because the plan was not a corious natter.

Olen o party had returned to lea

York and did not plan to come

back to klani.

PEPRODUGTION IS

CROM ARE

TUNE CARO SUBMITTED

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

## Page 6

14-00000

• 1

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREION DISSEM

- 8-

UF -8509

Cosmant®

In January 1906 Masterror told a group of

Gaigras

In Miand that Father Goorgen une one of

these contributing finanelal support to a plan for invading

See TDCSD:- 916/00225-66.

Soundo Comment.

Manferror was probably exaggorating. Ho

may have equipment for 250 men.

Field Commente

3. Masferrer has praviouoly claimed that he had the auppor

of the Dominican Government.

Another source hao reported

on plana

for making a fila

efforts

300 UFG- 0580.

of Haitiano

to ovorthrow President

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN

---

