# 104-10130-10081

## Page 1

104-10130-10081

SECRET

OTHER FA

PROMIETEL

STATE PRECESZNCE

A

IF. FILE.

va. IPlin, cia; clops,

P6/562, 0SG, OPS/ITG4,

{ 981395

5÷767

PAGE 81

IN 944357

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

19536

SECRET IZZZOZ JUN TO STAFF

CITE

19536

TO: PRIORITY JIRECTOR INFO

LSDEW GSMIC

-

REFS: A.

B.

19518 (IN 937052)

19375 INOT SENTE

/(IN 890367)

WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

1. SEMICA-EE BE-GED PASSED

VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND @-68, NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT MLNO WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

ZIMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINCE AUGUST 75,

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD. PLOT WAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT AND E-68 CLAIM THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GECALD PATRICK HEMMINGINO

TRACESS, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACOUTRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 9O GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS HITH FIVE 158 REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

Dan- Guatrmals Posk.

X 1041

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SCC DISSEN BI

PER

TOTAL COPIES

RUA BY

RESRODUCTION

BY OTHER TAT

ISSUING OFFICE

•HOMIEUTES

INUNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

STAFF

ICE CODY ISSUEDSIOTTED

IN UNIT

RF . FILE .

VR

N

F

3

6!

981395

EI A767

PAGE 02

IN 844357

TOR: 8822427 JUN 76

19536

A.

15 ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PJEFERENTIAL TRESTMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

C. IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR-POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA, E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESALLY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HIS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

2

PLANS DISSEM INFO ON ZIMERI CASE BUT WITHE-T

MENTIONING HEMMINGS BY NAME. PLAN PREPARE MEMO FOR CHAFE

AND RSO AND WILL SUGGEST THAT LATTER ATTEMPT ANSWER QUESTIONS

FOR LAUGERUD.

3.

ESDEW-4 AND E-68 ALSO REPORTED 7 JUNE IN SOME DETA:L ON

SOLUTION OF NOVELLA: KIDNAPPING CASE PREF BI. THERE POLITICAL

IMPLICATIONS THIS CASE ALSO SO WE DISSEMING. E-68 CLAIMS

SECRET:

---

## Page 3

BER DISSEM BRIN

MUNIT MÓTIFIED_

CE CODY ISSUEDISLOTTED

A UNIT

RF. FILE

BER

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUM

ISSUING

SPRODUCTICE IS ORDER THA

PHOMIBITEI

• STAFF

AT

VR

13!

io!

IN 944357

19536

T

981395

E::":7

PAGE B3

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

THERE AMERICA =ISSIBLY INVOLVED THIS CASE, ONE FRANK BUCK

(PROAABLY IDENT:CAL TO SUSJECT OF 201-B819515, A REGISTERED

DEA SÓURCES, iMO CLAIMS BE DOSTOR BUT DOES NOT PRACTICE HERE. •

HE ALLEGEDLY LOVEE OF SISTER OF INTELLECTUAL AUTHOR OF NOVELLA

KIDNAPPING PLAT. JORGE ALFONSO LOBO DUBON, IN WHICH ANOTHER

LOBO BROTHER, DESE FERNANDO LO BO DUBON, ALSO INVOLVED.

E-68 HAS REQUESTED WHATEVER INFO WE MIGHT HAVE ON BUCK.

PLANS INCLUDE TRI" NAME ALSO IN MEMO TO CHARGE AND RSO BUT WILL

OMIT IT FROM DISSEM.

• 4. FOR

ONE SOURCE OF INFO ON ZIMERI CASE MAY WELL

HAVE BEEN EEDEH-1, COS SAW LATTER BY ACCIDENT 8 JUNE. ESDEW-1

SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN PROVIDING INFO TO GOG ON ZIMERI FOR PAST

SIX MONTHS OR SO AND ADDED THAT TWO AMERICANS INVOLVED WITH -

ZIMERI. ONE OF WHOM RUNS A GUARD SERVICE IN MIAMI. HE DID

NOT MENTION NAMES BUT DESCRIBED ONE AS ABOUT SIX FEET FOUR INCHES

AliN WEIGHING ABOUT 238 POUNDS. ESDEW-I PLANS RETURN MIAMI WITHIN

TWO WEEKS SINCE IN OVER TWO YEARS HERE HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO

FIND JOB WITH SUFFICIENT SALARY PERMIT HIM LIVE COMFORTABLY.

5. PLS ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR WITH THIS METHOD OF HANDLING

REQUESTS FOR INFO ON AMERICANS AND OTHER LAUGERUD REQUESTS.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEC DISSEM

BT_

PER

"WHIT MOTHIED

193991911D-

A I98:rT

RF . FILE .

1914: COPIES

SECREI

TE FRODUCTOI

ISSUMNG CTFICE IS PROMIBTRS

STAFF

•..- l:.

--A?

VR

ON a

N

=

981395

E1A767

PAGE 84-04

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

1N 944357

19536

6. FILE: 201-88195:5, ZIMERI 2D1-,

75-4-22. E2. IMPDET.

Fent

qne toar

.".

S

ECR

'ET:

---

