# 104-10219-10003

## Page 1

104-10219-10003

SECBET

2268

ROUTTHE

3 BaPT 69

84055

0930

1

FROM 038

CLOBED CASE 32,872 - HUCE C. MC DONALD/WORLD ASSOCIATES, INC.

HEY:

LAIG 0223

& EY

TSD/OID, RAS BERM IN TOUCH WITH MR. MC DONALD

ON MATTRES OF INTEREST TO ORD. HOWBYER, THIS INTEREST DOES HOT PRESENTLY

HAVE ABTTHING TO DO WITH MC IN DONALD'& TRIP ABROAD. THERE IS BO

OBJECTION INATEVER TO YOUR BRIEFING OR DEBRIXYING OF MC DONALD CE

POSSIBLE FRE POTENTIAL.

PLARS TO HE IN YOUR AFEA AGALA IN ABOUT

TERRE ERERS TO DISCUSS ORO MATTERS HITH MC DONALD AID MILL CORTISUS TO

MEET HITE HIM AND TO DISCUSS BLATED ACTIVITIES. WE HAVE HERE ASSUARD

THAT MC DONALD'S RRLATIONSHIP VITH OED AND POSSIBLY OTHER CS COMPONRIES

VILL IN HO HAY CONFLICT WITH YOUR INTENDED USE OF MCDONALD, AB A SOURCE

CY VEI. AC DONALD IS NBITHER A CONTRACTOR NOR A CONSUIIANT FOR DESAI.

12 ss PH 59

SECRBT

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

Rue 29

3 02 PM '59

SECRET 2913402 AUG 65 CITEE

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

• To oss

0223

SUBJECT: CASE 52872 (CLOSED)

I HAVÊ AN APPOINTSENT WIIN HUGH ACDONALD FOR SEPTEMPER A TO

DISCUSS HIS TRAVEL AFROAD. HE INDICATED HE KAS BEEN DISCUSSING

HIS TRIP WIIN "PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON". I OOT THE LOSE THAT ISOVORC

ARE THE "PEOPLE" AND THAT INEY TAY HAVE THOUGHIS ABOUT BRIEFING

HIM, IF SO I DO NOT WANI TO ATPEAR NOT WITTING TO THE DESPEE OF

STUPIDITY, PLEASE DETERMINE 15 DOISBE ELEMENTS ARE PLANNING TO

TASK MCDONALD IN AHY MAY CONCENVING HIS TRIP FOR I WANT TO

DETERMINE IF HIS TRIP OFFERS ANY POTENTIAL FOR FOR. ALSO, PLEASE

DETERMINE IF MCDONALD IS A DRASST CONSULTANT OR CONTRACIOR.

SECREI

x=. 2901.

---

## Page 3

Bogacitad

ASEPARTIL TOR

MYSTIOS

Chit 20 Auguat 1962

ELD CITICE

Mas astrart

Cais 52873 - clore.

PE HUCH C. LC DONALD

Ferlly Divleton bas

HAX 1969_

Ca bus na sujectis La y0rr use of subjact la asemenca alta ten

Mi bos - 10 - 30, sust lo repletad dentratal by tae efuese,

Insaquartaro Divistos.

Recurity 112s 90n O1risa

CC

FILE

DOSTT

CONNECTION

301242)

TERRITT RESEAUL 1868

EXCLUIANS FRON AUROMATEO

DOMINHIRO AND LECLASSOPICAIION

---

## Page 4

(Hero I'lllea In)

MIO ELAY 1962

KAURAIO! TO

FIELD CITICE

EXT BARACE

AD HOC CLEARAEO3

CASE 52372

security Dirlason has smnted ed hoc clearasce tara

BECKER EUR FAC MET FE QUEIRINO ESTONE DAR AVERSAL CULAR CBANDER

on the folloring:

Becurity checze will de completed.

CC:

Orficer

SCURITY HESSAOS $ TEGO

GROUP. I

KYCLANSD FROI AUTOUNIC

DOETKIRADIDRO AND DOCLASSIVICAFICE

C-OFFIDIH-T-IA-I

---

## Page 5

World Associates Incorporated

DCS/Operational Support Btal!

900 Key Bidg-

2268

tar

Closed Case 52,812

15 May 1969

For your retention.

Attached per your request 1a

copy of current data concerning

World Associates, Inc, their

producta and serices.

REP: Q0-A(8)-322/12039-69

---

## Page 6

12-000.

0114:52-84-2d-

ANCE

6 May 1969

A2R70

SIDE MOINT

CASE 52872

2029 :..

Dianey Division has grand ed lee closen thres

COS WIPIAL TO BE RADED TO BORIS ANTER 23 FRT CUBCS IS COMPTATED

KH C. HE DORALD

6. 52872

searer chicks veil in agend.

IncE vIll de completed ot a later deto.

securiti trison Ceraser

SEQUENCE HENAN $ 7065

LICION THE ANUATIC

MAIN AT EASICATIO

---

## Page 7

World ABsociates, Inc., Hugh C. Hedonald, President

Dcs/Operational Support Staff

900 key Building

2268

DOS Case SaUT?

5 May 1969

230 South Buflding

Attached 1a copy of 00-A(s)

322/12039-69 for your information.

Castral

---

## Page 8

SECTET

COUNTRY: - -

SUBJECT:

World Associates, Inc.

Hugh C. McDonald, President

406 Wilshire Boulevard

Suite 203

Santa Monica, Calif. 90401

KLA 00-4 (S) 322/12039-69

30 April 1969

DCS Case S2872

1. Intervieved 23 Apr 69, Huph G. McDonald, a cleared DCS source,

Informed that there appeared to be a misunderstanding in connection with

hie visiting Hashlagton.

First, he does not plan on going to Washington

himself; a representative from the Chicago Office is going for the purpose

of meeting with the Financial Group Company. Next, McDonald said he has

not offered to demonstrate his Voice Ident System.

Finally, he does not

plan & "world tour".

Rather, sometime this Fall he plans on visiring

bankers and government security people la various Latin American countries.

He will seturn to the US; then, later on, vialt various European countries.

Agalo he will return to the US and then visit various Par Eastera countries.

His purpose in making these trips i8 to sell Hughes helicopters to foreign

police departmente coubined with posalble sale of his check cashing security

system to banking institueions.

2. McDonald will inform DCS/LAPO of hia travel plans when they are

firmed up.

*3. McDonald is willing to go to Washington, D.C. bimself on 8-9

May and meet with ISD/ORD people there to "discuss" his Voice Ident

System, but he is not prepared to do so unless TSD/ORD have sone

specific problems which his system will help solve. He feels othervise

it would be a waste of time

l. The above discused with DCS/OSS

29 Apr 69. It vas

decided that since-ORD

previously that

has been in contact with McDonald

rIscuss the possible meeting on the Voice

Ident System directly wich McDonald.

NcDonald was informed 29 April to expect a call frow

that DES/LAFO would follow up later concerning his travels abtom.

- end -

63479 1

Enchised tres snort

dwarasiar

SECRET

---

## Page 9

38 april -

the agesey has chive real and

krit problems i divines.

The does wat have the time to

Crise te Washing tos for a gessed.

has cansced ane.

part of IS D and antial plaple

are estereted in sitting is bust

the interest i sist sufficient to

approache

Ki, D*E perpliand wn tild

thin

had acked.

them some tore ags and he had

abriary arranged a nesting,

4/3a/697= (Gica 113 - 393-3564. Toened t

him she nock this one out?

nice make his

an anarginet to brin

To many cation's

---

## Page 10

SPCREE

7268

ISIDE

85 APR 69

1030

CASE 52,8T2 - BUT C. HE DOMAID, WORLD ASSOCTAIIS INC.

EINS 8 KME 83002 AND KANG-30

EN PUT EAS RASZO ON IEFORIATICH CREATIED

HAT HAVE OVENUOU YA KC DONALD'S ENTHUSIAN TO PR 07

MERVICE TO EXS POLICE

HE LIS PIERR SD/OND CONOMETE TO DETENTER SENSE SO ELE

QUIKE TO CHI I WAILIAON ON & HAY AS INDICATED IN BACOND PIEY.

MISE IL SIRED LAVE MELON OF HUDS OF BITE

# AM

• SCOPE TO WHICH I BOMALD. BOULD

HỊD A CALVIN SO TISSUES SUCH MATTERS THE A SECURES BEANSPONE. 518 848

CUEKMEZICE EXE TOILD IKXP IS ITORIATE SUP NOT A PRE

STRO MATIER AS FHTS SYNE.

IP DURE IS SUWICKET OPIAPIOTAL INTERT, IN CAN SAME IQUIRBNIES LAFRA

ERY ROPE DIANATIC IS AVATZARLE RIGADLES DIS SO CALLED MORLD SOUR IN TIR FALL.

SULD I DIND A DIOSE TO CON TO NASTON, D.C. ME LOLL LAKE SEE

SERAFT AX2

WENT OR LIE AFR

IRONER AND INTRODUCY

ION 20 T3D/OJD HAPS.

JTB FOTE OF CONTACT WOULD AR DCS/088

ROSE OF

PICE TELEPHONE CAN BE

CHUKHED SO IS DONALD. MIN ME INARI HAURS OF LEDBE VEO VIET TO ATTEND MIRETTRO

HIS NE DOID, A VILL BE CRAD SO PUNISE HARS SUS THE COMACTINE ARPANCAES

BROVE MENTOND MILE HIMATE INTACT, SHOTD IS DONALD INDICATE BIGS OP ANY

KIE EL T

IS OR SHOE IELUCTAICE TO LISCUSS HIS TOICI

---

## Page 11

2

HINO 3O/GI NEEDS T

TORE DIE

KEE.

TOP RECTER CRANICE (H SUNNET SINCE 1960.

83050

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET.

Ara 2:

N 38 hM 89

SECRET Z 033Z AER 69 CIE

CONTACTS/WASHESCTOM

TO 353,

1177

CASE 52972

NUCH CO MOSOMALDO WORLD ASSOCIATES LACE LIFETS IS THS, SONSONE

PROVIDED ISDORD WITH INCORROCT INFORCATIRO WETTE NOT OFFER TO

DECONSTRATE DIS VOICE IDENTIFICATIC SYSTER, WACK NE SAGARDS 5А HEY

„SENSITIVE SYSTEM FACH A SECURITY ETANDONIST.

NA S.50. DIS NOT PLAY

BS IS WASHISGTON WITHIN TRE DEXT THREE WECHSO HIS. 50 CALLED AORLD TOUP

VILL BEGIN SOMETIME TELE FALL GITN A VISIT FIRST TO IATIN SERICA, A

RETURS TO US. & TRIP TO FUROPE, RETURS US AYD A FIYAL TRIP TO FAP EASTE

THE CHICAGO REPRESENTITINE OF IME FIRS FLONS DO ETFRISENTINE THE TIRS AT

AN? MAY MORTISE WITH FINANCIAL BENERAL GROUS CO. IN WASHINGTONE

TOCRE AGGRE MAN CHILDRE OI CAU MESATA CHISE CENSOREE GARGLEN

IF YOU WILL FROVIDE US NITH NAMES, TELEFHONE RENEGAS. FIS. ADVISER

SECRET

1p3ln

Hauty a Lagistra

Cantiming trees sive fits.

---

## Page 13

ORD/ >901

tuer C. Mi DeNALD.

WORLD ASSOCINTES

IsCr

SANTA MONICA,

Хт.

5633

MONITOR)

(Rageer.

INETr KiT.

VISIT WASN IN ZWEIS.

12041

---

## Page 14

14-00000

ATTA

Chief, TSD/APS

Diroctor, Dosestic Contact Service

22 April 1969

DES Case 528?1 = lugh C. IcDonald •Horld Associatos, Into, Santa Monica,

California, Uffers to Assist Agency

1o Subject is well known to TSD and CiD components as

developer of Identi-kit.

Nore recently he has been involved in

developing a positive voice identification systes (nor to be

confused with voice prints). Melonald is milling to cemonstrate

this systoe to interested ISD corsupers and other components

of the Agency.

More laportantly, subject is planning a sorld cour

or forolga riniseries, banning and business instituzions, police

organizaticas an friendly intelligence servicos, to desonstrate his

various projucts.

Subject's itinerary has bot been firmed up bus will

bo available then plans are copleted for the world tour. lie plans to be

in bashligion on other business natters in the next three weeks and would

bo gird to desonstrate his voice iventification systen so TSD and ORD

ropresentatives and accopt any operstional requireseat: which may be

generated by sppropriate TSU consuners, in connection wich his vorid tour.

de rould appreciate ISD's reactiot to Nr. IcDonald's offer

and sone indication of the number of Agancy representatives who tould be

Interosted in beering with XT. McDonald in bashington, D. C.

Further inquiries sbould be direcred to

DES, Operazional Support Staff, Extension 2268.

JAMES Ro: MIRPIN

€C:

Services Div. - (Control)

aru.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

3268

ROUTINE

21 APR 69

1600

1

83002

FROM OSS

NEN CASE 52872 - HUGH RA C. MCDONALD

Y MORLD ASSOCIATES INC., SANTA MONICA, CALIFORNIA

OFFERS TO ASSIST AGENCY (Closed Case 34441)

THIS IS NEY CASE OPENED TO YOUR OFFICE.

SUBJECT IS NELL KHONN TO TSD/ORD COMPONENTS AS THE DEVELOPER OF IDENTI-KIT.

MORE RECENTLY INVOLVED IN DEVELOPMENT OF POSITIVE VOICE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEN (NOT TO

BE CONFUSED MITH VOICE PRINTS). SUBJECT PLANNING WORLD TOUR TO DEKONSTRATE HIS

PRODUCTS TO FOREIGN BUSINESS AND BANKING INSTITUTIONS, FOREIGN MINISTRY'S POLICE

ORGANIZATION AND FRIENDLY INTELLIGENCE SERVICES. IN APPRECIATION FOR PAST ASSISTANCE

PROVIDED HIK BY TSD/CUD FOR DEVELOPMENT OF IDENTI-KIT, HE IS OFFERING TO DEMONSTRATE

HIS VOICE IDENTIPICATION SYSTEM TO INTERESTED CS COMPONENTS AND TO SERVICE OPERATIONAL

REQUIREMENTS BICH MAY BE OF INTEREST TO TSD AND OTHER AGENCY COMPONENTS, IN CONNECTION

WITH HIS MORLE TOUR. SURJECT PLANS TO VISIT MASHINGTON, D. C., WITHIN NEXT THREE WEEKS.

PLPASE CONTACT SUBJECT, OSTAIN ITINERARY AND ADVISE HIM ME SOLICITING TSD CONSUMERS

TO DETERMINE THOSE INTERESTED IN HIS VOICE IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM AND OTHERS MIO MAY

WISH TO TASK HIN NITH POSSIBLE OPS REQUIREMENTS,

SUBJECT HICLDS DCS. SECURITY APPROVED (CAUTION) CLEARANCE (DEC 1954)

SH SHOULD BE

UPDATED, FIrE EXPIIS.

SECRE

---

## Page 16

RUS TITLE BIE POLONE MERONALD, MUGAG

DCS 04-6158

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: —

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

NOT REVIEWED EY HECA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 17

KHEEH 10

5e 6 Hay 1969

5.4-61-88

CARE 53012

09. t03 90120113

ENO H EXAS

Sicurity

barcki will be erieud.

IC's vall to corpleted et a later deto.

SECURITY

CC:

Secit; ilsison DefIcar

ME BY NE 2 7063

---

## Page 18

C0•E--1-D-E-X-1-1-4-

Chen illed is

5: 4-61-88

FATE ANY IDEA

ARMORARE TO

ATTENTICI

SORTECT

BYEROIT

FIED OTICE

AD ROC CLEARASSE

CASS 52072

Security Divlason has ersmited al toe clearence thru

WAR DO ARRAN CAL ALL GRATIO

on tha falloina:

SECURITY

CC:

curity balson Officer

SCURITY HASSACE A TETO

GROUP S

DUMORADISO ATO DECLASSIFICATICH

---

## Page 19

14-90000

SECRET

54.61-88

Chiol, Personal Security Division, 03

I sine 1970

(Cater,

BC DEAL, Mish Co m Alleged Satant of lieu Henslen to Caba/Possible

1L89 460

Esperazion

DCS

time to

OB dated 30 January LyTO

Fro taíarention roported la the enclosed copies of MONRANDA

repsatatim's ruct intarieu end telephone conversatina with

busyaos, soy be as seterest. ma infariatio reported in partrage

4 end 5 os the 25 karel surends my be of particular interest.

Any questions pertaininy, to this venordan should be

Lirectol to las.

5xto E133.

SECURITY

DO WS41

molesaral li statod above

Nero-ditd. 25 March 1970

Ness-ete, 15 April 1910

SECRET

Exciate: tea satas

mangadies

aed

dociariTicallas

---

## Page 20

CONFOENTAL

5-4-61-86

calef, Persomal Security Mrision, 0S

30 Jarary I9TО

Directer, Dosastle Conteet serviee

(CisteR, Servioes DIvision)

IC DORATS, INgS Co - Merting With Proprieter of World Associated, Ime.

lo The Istorration reparted in the enclosed solfexplanstory

iration and hla ballef that 16 5111 have a real

alligence poten-

tal for providing econode, political and othe

modal an of ponsible interest and futuro ranci

ratlas, to for

no stated in paragrap 3 of the mclosure

our reprocentative

told babject that the Agency ins no imarest la his glens sino hie

to

30

Res.

Sia abould be directod

Biolosure: Au Stated Abova

CONFIDENTIAL

itostess

---

## Page 21

23

saran: 1570

Forld associntes

E=o:

Palator)

==:

1.

cras

=isy

г.0w:

On 13 canudry 1970,

the

coot

--11,

•cs.

•12a.

into

ind abass

0.=3

the boald

Crorée?

in va-ious couetrias d ca

5o20222

÷5.

this cost.

:0738

+013

the

==

111:213

1212

7:09

-enl

2331

_il,

S1.:

cole

:.]

ha

vIcusi?

1511 Cha

cristance ni his organiuntica ducert

intersets.

Ca cais

gl=a

to mots a'rsecré ce laa conversatiea.

0.ad

:2=C

cha ci

2aa2d

xis

nis

I

23 1.:

and

6222212

T...

chose

carca

ascaosieg

ise

inforition conscani

scinca

w8 11r.

2a9

====

the contorradio

Tastie

---

## Page 22

14-.000d

P10. 27901949381

=2.

conclusion that sa

=3 uith Lasanuld of tuo cooc=loza new I heve eoza to tie

sone 2a:r0se plans but lies rashing to been caca

3224/b2=

i ce: 5a3, Sarvices Elvision

File: Chiould Assocdates

---

## Page 23

S-5+9-19-73

KANALDIES 7041

MITTIN

: Ciot,

F.4.61-88

5E133 20. August 2969.

FIND OTICK

RETIKELES

1E BRO CUSTODI

8) 108•1-10 - 30

3) 008 S90

_Saurity DiSIBicu iza

coated lit too ciance through "sast" for Dialed Aras Eriellad.

APRILLIE.

HAX

chesses cath this

vet's kenarassum duted 25 Borissar 195

with D0E 8 - 10 - 30

Findpartara Di

Jy by tie apuveriate

SRECRITE NESSAGE 986

GROUP I

EXTERED FRIE ADISHITE

B-E-C-R-R-8

---

## Page 24

CONFIDENTIAL

05-4-61-88

Lei Angesca 7.0

INTEROFFICE MEMORAMDIM

DATE : 19 August 1$69

TO

: Director, Docestle Contact Service

SUBJBCT: MC DONALD, Hugh C

FILE NO: 189460

DENIED ME:

BRIEFING

÷ 1.

Feference is sade to your request for security checks on the subject

person as a source of intelligence information.

This is to infor you that the necessary checks have been completed with

the follosing results:

No additional Information has been obtaired, except for such

biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

Inforsation has been received that Subject was investigated with

favorable regulte in

1953

c.

Certain Information has been received and appears in the attach-

ment which your Division will wish to consider in determining

the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3.

It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying

information you furnished or in an attachment to this recorandum.

Should It be dis-

name, this Division should be notified imbediately.

4:: P3I name check vas completed May 1909. Other fational Agency checks were

mpleted on ll August 1559.

This office tas no objection to Subject being used in accordance with the

I's memorandum dated 25 November 1961.

Chief, Personnel Security Division

for

Os has coeral-end with aroger! barles pries

Interest. Thare da do Guisuica ia DiS ase

APPROVED/SEGRET.

DENIED AREA

BRIEFING

€- 85 1124a

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 25

14-0000g:

B 8 APR 1969

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BOGRAPHIC DATA

DUVECT O LAFT NAME - FIRBT NAME - MIDOLE NAMI

MCDONALD

Hugh

• ALIAOKE

- 46188

B. FULL

NAME OF BROUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH. EITIZENSKIP

Present

RIBIDENCES (inciding Ha, and Street, Zond, HID, Fte.)

COMPLETE ADORESE

920 Buclid Street, Santa Monica, California

1954

2601 Colonial Avenue, Mar Vista, California

82-91.

NO.

PP-10772

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

Hopkins, Minc.

CITITENSHIP

US

Present

:2936

-46/88

IMPLOYHENT

HANG DO HAFLOTEN

Horld Associates Inc.

406

Wilshire Blvd., Santa

Monica, California

Los Angeles County Sheriff's

Office

211 Temple Street, Los Angeles

I CONTINUED

1945

1944

1943

1935

EDUCATION (High school, cellega,

gradnate work, che. d

MAME OF ACHOOL

Stanford University

University of Virginia

University of Michigan

Univ. of Southern California

DEGREE OR MAOS

Military Affairs

Military Government

Japanese Language

Political Science

10. ADOrTIONAL PERTINIAT

INFORMATION INCLUDING FULL NAMI, CITZENANIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

•Major in Army Reserve (File 0504248)

01 MAY 1969

80 ДРі.

20 DERRI

A4 F5 8 8188

---

## Page 26

He licen

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGHAPHIC DATA

UNKCTE LAST MARE - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME

MC DONALD, Hugh C.

Zeneratin-

DATE AND PLACE OF BIATE

Hopkirs, Mian.

SEX IS. CITIIENSHIP

US

I, PULL NAME OF BOUBL DATE AND MI

ACH OF BIRTH. CITILENSHIP

REBIDEMCES (lactating Ha, and Strent, lom, RYD., etC,

COMPLITE ADDRESS

Present

920 # Buclid Street, Santa Monica, California.

1954

2601 Colonial Avenue, Mar Vista, California

1936--

Present

1967:

/=

LOVNIENT

World Associates Inco

Los Angeles County Sheriff'a

office

COMPARTE AI

706 Wilshire Blvd., Sante

Nonica, California

211 Temple Street, Los Angeles,

California

O CONTINUED

EDUCATION

hool, collets, trathia work, ete)

1945

-2944

1943

*1935

Stanford University

University of Virginia

University of Michigan

Unty. of Southern California

DEGAKE ON HAT

military Affairs

Military Governmart

Japanese Language

Political Science

DJ CONTINUED

1O: ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL RAME. CIY

-Major in Army Reserve (F1le 0504248)

WHUP DATA ON PARENTE AND CHI

• 1 wAY 1961

BENSO NEA

BIEFING

i 5:

C-92979

5 MAY 1958

O CONTINUE

---

## Page 27

1Os

FROM!

SUBJECTE

Chief, Contact Divisios, 00

DATE! 8 Novembe: 1954

Chief, Security Division, SO

WODOUALD, High Co

3310772

4-46188 MeTE

TACTIVE

Reference la made to your request for a security check on the Subjeot

person as a potential source of foreign intelligence information.

Based on information available as a result of our checks, Subjeet has

been placed in the designated category:

Approved - Subjeet may to given infornation olassified up to and

Including SBCRET.

Approved (Caution) - Subject may be given Information olassified

up to and including SECRET provided discrotion is exercised in

development as a source.

Linited - Subject may be given information clasaified up to and

including CONFIDENTIAL®

Disapproved - Subjoot may not be furnished any olassified infor

natione

•Any. pertinent information developed on Subjeot and not set forth in the

data sheet furnished by your Division,

is set forth below, or in an attaoh»

ment.. This additional information is for your confidential use only and io

not to be disseminated outside of CLA•

It is to be noted that our ebooks were nade on the basis of the identis

fying information you furnished, as outlined below, or in an attachsont to

this: menorendune

Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous

or that Subjeot is known by a different nano, this Division should be noti-

fed irmediately.

944

CONFIDENTIAL?

DEE

---

## Page 28

14-00000

howg

29 Julis 1954

1-46188

LICTORALD

C

Sopius, Him

Present

3601 Colorial Ave., Har Vista, Callforala

1930

Present

Los Angeles County Cheriff's

Office

(daIn 0381c0)

211 Teuple Street

Leg Angeles, Calli.

1935, Univ, of Southern Call!, Political Sejence;19}3, University of lichigan, Japnese

Language ,1944, Univeraity of Virginia, Military Government:1945, Stanford Valversity,

Miltary Artajas

Major in Aray Reserve (FIle 050:248)

---

## Page 29

A-04-61-38

HUCH G. MeDUlAiD

NOTZ:

Prior sterial os this source vas retired to records

Cester under Box

and Job 60-018

_ BE 383

Babioguently bees destrojel in accordasie with the

disposition Instructione authorized in the DCS Records

Contra Schedule.

BUSINESS $

Subject i8 withi

A11-98-59 - World Associates, Inc., Santa Monica, California.

ACTIVATED

DATS - 4-22.04

ITAS Hat

---

## Page 30

14-00000

TO

ATTN

FROM

Cred

UNITED STATES GOVERMENTUE

SEC

Memorandum

Direc

088

Chief,

Case 52722

In 416-70

DATE: 15 May 70

rYT I sould liko to comment as follows.

passed the attached to me on Saturday, 9 May.

2, (Item l) It was

not to reported

on the nen radical group at Pitzer, source

ta doubt

that we can obtain much more in response to CI/SO questions.

fide

will try, but with caution aince ve are dealing with a young, abrious

Liberal fenale. As forl

we think he la back at Cornall.

Our report to you covered all. wa lnow to date.

So (sten 2)

will try and determine what he can

If everything appears favoritle

and ve can clear ve may contact. However, they are unknown to us.

hat CI/SO that they car tell us about them. It will help.

(Iteng 3, l, 5, 6) These people unbrom to us. lho are

they?

them?

there did

gat their names?

Khat does he know about

that doos he vast us to do about then?

So.. (iken 7) As I have reported, I will not personally contame

The FBI regards him as unsuitable to help then and,

based upon their assessment, I will not serve any requirements on

him.

(Sarry sy memo ca thia had an incomplete sentence.)

6. (Iten 8) Anger in "no".

To (Itan9) I have cantacted

B. (Ite= 10)

and reparted.

PHS

sant in 14 May.

9. (Iten 11) I have told

that fugh MeDonald 18 an

opinionatod, egotietieal ass who refuses to provide any data to mupport

his statements, therety saking it i possible to assess the inforsation

he supplies.

10. (Item 12)

says the chance of

providing anything

le questionable.

SEANCISE COLE

---

## Page 31

вОвУЕСТА Сава 52722

00 2

LA 416-70

. mm

11.

(Iten 13; I have finally figured out

Meet Pointer.

During one of our initial conversations I facetiously remarked, in

response to types he was looking for, that what he wanted was a rod.

unite and blue segro, a graduate os last point, uho is non in the

export-laport business dealing with Africa.

12. (Item 14) I told

on Saturday that the local os

people are and have been in contact wich the LAPD and the sheriff'g

Office on militant matters, that the OS people are known as Agency!

nat of is reparting unatoner they learn and for un to involve our

wantg to know

what OS 1s getting, tell hin to contect

alves sould be confusing and duplicative. IEl Jin Headguartera/05.

might want to consider having his requirements levied on 09.

1.

(Iten 15)

anything soon on the

joba and 1a too busy to do much.

reports nothing new, and not likely to be

affair.

hag changed

14.

(Iten 16)

but he doubts it.

He

w111

reports

check.

aay have something on V.B.

15..

(Iten 17)

I told

that I do not want to get in-

volved in any activity that would put us in the position of being

rocused of Investigating militante, ta are on thin 1co as it 18.

Therafore,

will not ba asked to follow up on

contects

and sa will depend on Os polles contects.

Attachment:

tered copy

RPBLe/Vla

Pile: C52722

notes

SECAN SENSITIVE

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SUBJICT:

World Associates, Inc.

MLA O0-A(5) 322/26389-69

10 September 1969

DCS Case 53199

1.

n & September 1969, Chief, LAFO, met with Hugh C. MeDonald

President

•t World Associates Inc.. A former law enforcement offleer Chief of Detectives,

Los Angeles County Sheriffs' Office, retired) he has an excellent reputation

among lm enforçesent agenciea.. He

has cooperated with the Agency fully in

the past. He le a cleared source of LAFO/DCS.

Since hia retirement McDonald has started Horld Associates Ine..

company with two divisions, the Security Division and the Aircraft Divislon.

3. The Security Division provides, de its primary service, a bank

security system, desigred to provide banklag institutions wich a means to

control and curtail losses from fraud and robbery.

• The Aireraft Division vas set up because of the exclusive contract

World Associates has wich the Hughes Tool Company (Hugnes Alreraft) for the

¡sale of helicopters to lau enforcement agearles, to operate a helicopter pilor

Veraining echool for eunicipal and other lew enforcement agencies and to handle

-the installation of helicopter patrol syatens. Thia contract apples to all

countries escept the US. McDonald said he expecte to sell the Hughee Model

300 hellcopter to foreign low enforcement agencies. None of these has been

sold abroad, with the exception of the Philippines.

He will have to open up

offices la order to demonstrate, sell and arrange

for servicing of the

helicopters. A helicopter pilot-salesman and a techoical representative would

be noeded at a beginning cost of about $19,000 per year. McDonald said he

would have a good, plausible reason for setring up such an office in Hong Kong,

not only, to sell and service police helicopters in the Crown Colony, but alec

to use an a base for cther Asian country activities. McDonald expects to

start exploring the foreign police potential for helicopters in the near

future, beginning with a trip to South America.

So:

The possibillty of using foreiga offices to promote che activities of

the Security Division of the company also exists.

6.. Currently, McDonald i8 in Hawail and is exploring the possibility of

setting up a police intelligence school in Healt to train police officers

from Asian countries.

Attached are copies of data pertaining to prospectus, products.

services, ete.

end -

S-F-C-R-I-T

---

## Page 33

+5-4-61-88

=

BEV CASE SOST-LETTE

DESCE, CALMEANTA DESTRO TE

A TIT MUS CHE 14400)

THIS 1S M

A CATE OPENED TO PACE SERICHA

GUSOROT AS WELL KROTE TO YSOODAD COMERWESTS SE THE DEVELOPER

OF IDENTICKIT. MORE RECENILY LEVOLVED IN CSUCLOFHENT OF POSITIVE

VOICE IDENTIFICATIO SYSTER CUO TO 3Е FORENS KITH MARCE PRINTES.

SUSJECT PLANNING FORLO 1OUP TO PHN0HS7UCT? 210 78090033 79

FOREIGE PUSINESS AND BASKING INSTITUTING. COZ16G MINISTRY. SO.

POLICE OSCAHIZATLDN AND FRIENDLY LSTOLLIGENCE SCANDESO IS

APPRECIATIOA FOR PAST ASSTSTAYCT GOGULOGO LIE SY TENSEE FOR

DEVELOPRENT OF ICEUTI-KIT, NE IS CHEERING TE CICONSTRATE WIS

VOICE ITENTIFICATION SYST: 10 ISTEROSIOO СЕ CORONERS US TO

SERVICE OPERATIDSAL REGLIFERADIS WMICH MAY DE 35 INTEREST TO

TSO AND DINER AGENCY COMPERRITO.

18 20207717 47 415 YORLS

"t?"

TOLR. SUAJECT PLASS TO VISIT MAININGTOR, DOCCO GITHIS SEXT

THREE WEEKSO PLEASE CONTACT JUESSCT. DETAIY ITISERARY ARD AGUISE

NIM dE SOLICITING TOO COUGGER THAT TEN TOrTER 1у

---

## Page 34

PASE 2 CONTACTSAVASHIMOTOY ISONG? CAR.

HIS. VOICE IDESTIFICATION SYSTERAND

STEERE WID CAR BISE TO TAC:

HIM WITH POSSIELS OPS REQUIREYEITE, SUFUSET HOLES DOE SECURITY

APPROVED (CAUTION) CLEARANCE IDEO 1O9CS

PLEASE EXPEDITE.

SECR

Fore:

---

## Page 35

2901

on Tolel

baits, Prous perpe

last month. Oneseas in lucies

sD/P Han toedes.

niformation.

He deve

lome

clantike

for 780-8yeas a go

Who Aluuld le tolk to-

of cie lait dieet teen he tral

our mittens

10/27/70 Called

JORD I know

Eras previous encounters. He has bees

trying to peddle

ugh Me Donald to various elements of the Agency without secess. ISI bas

¿wants, Sabject's file contains infornation of littie or no valne

---

## Page 36

2701- ORD-

- 3166

AH1-"

a sadcincariner.

---

## Page 37

14-00000

4-61-68,

OLC 70-0857

9 December 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Mortal MillAir. Hugh C. MicDonald Presidant of

World Associates Inc.

7149Ü59

lo In rosponse lo a request from Air. Killgore, on the stall of

SERsBOr Barry Colduater (Ho, Arizo), 1 met with Dir. Hugh C. MeDonald

at the Madison Hotol Ule afternoon. MeDonald explalned that he le in

the banking and security business, baving previouely worked in the

Los Angelos Cosaty Shortl'a Office. He also said he had a contracteal

relationchip eilà the Agency some years ago and served as chief of

pocurity for Senator Goldwater during his campsige for the presidency

ln 1953.

2. Mr. McDonald tasked this morning with Senator Goldwater

about bie daterest in mooting vith comeone from the Agency to discusa

a report which he has prepared on the subject of highly sonaltive Sovlet

bactoriologleal mirfare activities on the island of Vosroabdenlya in the

Aral Sea.: McDonald sald he originally became aware of the estatence

of the secret Soviet activity in this locality while in Europe on a businese

trip. He docided to follow lt up and was referred from one contact to

another until he was virtually at the Russian border and decidod he had

Invaligated the matter an far as he fait he could without ts possibility

of personal sisa, McDonald pointed out that the information in his report

was obtained from courcos who spoke freely to him without any remunera-

Mon whatsoever.

He added that he understood from some of bie sources

that thay had been in louch with the Agency or with U.S. Intelligence

reprosentatives and had become reluctant to deal further with theee

representatives because thoy were nos treated properly by them and

the sources feared the Agency had been penetrated by Soviet agenta.

SPARET

12P20

---

## Page 38

14-00000

The reasons for McDonald'a contact with us are threefolds

a. After preparing the 65-page report. (a copy of stich

be gavo me) he became concerned that publication of thie

document night not be in the rational interest. He is ansious

for our advice on this.

b. He la interested in knowing whother the information

Se roasonably accurate. He quito naturally does not want to

publish a story that contains errors.

C. He la interested in knowing whather the Agency wante

bo dolve fusther into this mattor.

4o With sogard to the possible publication el the report, McDonald

asid he planned to talk in very general torms this afternoon with repres

sentatives of Timo/Life. He will make no commitments to them and

will treat he meeting an strictly exploratory, It is McDonald'e opinion

that the story would appeal to publishers and would bring approsimately

$200, 000 & $300,000.

Mr. McDonald claims he has no resl interest in pursuing the

subjoet further unlass the Agency feola thore la real merit in it. He

cald hio cources are "vide open" and he la confident that furthes informa-

#on could be developed although he bas no direct contact with thom ao

ladividuale and woald probably have to go through the same labo roue

procese of contacting one person through another as he did bofore.

6. McDonald plane to leave Wanhington tomorrow, but cald be

could stay in town through Friday if thie was necesoary. He said ho

camo hors for the express parpose of discuening the report with ua.

He said ho did not considor Senator Goldwater a personal irlend, but

Indicated he had traveled thousando of dies with the Senator during

No presidential campaign and although ho argued with him on many

subjects had a very ligh regard for kim. It was agreed that I would

get the report in the handa of the appropriate Agency people as soon as

possible and attemptto give him a preliminary reaction some time

2

SECRET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SECRET.

% The report hua beca forwarded lo De. Karl Reber, of 081.

for rovior. A chock with the Domestle Contset Serviee Meclosed tbat

McDonald had been & contact of the California Fleid Office and, altbouga

considored by DC; to be somewhat ef a phony and a nulsance.

hi a

elearances vore verified by them. MeDonald doee not appear le me

to bo a crackpot although! have not road lie raport. He gave no indication

at thia meetlag of making a "pltch." He apposper concerzod about tha

Laformatles ho has uncovered and seome to vast to do what la right under

the circumstances. Me. Killgore, la Senstor Collwater's office, has

aaked that me give him a followup report on our contact with McDerald.

10/ CESP00 I. CARY, 12.

GEORGE L. CARY. JR.

Dopaty Legislative Counsel

Dietributions

Orig. - Sabl.

8 - De. Weber (031)

• 1 = Chrone

= - DCS

OLC/GLEIFE (II Dee 70)

---

## Page 40

5. 4-61-88

15 April 1970

HOLSARDIM FOR

THE RECORD

Bubject: / Hugh MeDoaald/Telephone Conversation 13 April 1970

Bugh McDonald telephoned and Informed that,

"a rellable source"

told hia chat a sus of "several ailliod" dollars had been transferred te

the Cathay Bank (Los Angeles) fron the Yar East for the Comerelal Bank

of Suaden. He consented that it may be the firet cuberential payment

to militant groups. throughout the world fron the Bed Chinese. The

Laforantion was about 10-12 dayo old as of 13 April 1970, he inforwad

me. Pocause of bla rafusal to provide any data concerming his sources

In the past, I merely chanted him for the lafosmation.

BFEL/089

Flles

Селе 92722

Horld Assoelaces, Inc

Excise ran

SECRET

---

## Page 41

49859

4-61-88

serves

25 March 1970

BED FOR

TIP PEC

Subject:

B-#4. 46188

World Assoclates, Ince (Hugh MeDonald)

1.

lcDosald asked me to moet with him on 24 Mar 70. I did.

started the conversation by stating, "He are getting bigger all the

eins and are on the way of beconing the largest, privata Intelligence

organizatloa la the world. And ve are picking up intelligence that

I saat to pass to soncone, anyono in government. I feel you should

set it."

2. At thia point I commented that I appreciated his feeling but

wondered 1f he could provide sose basis for laformation passed to ua

that would penit sons evaluation, such as type of person tho provided

his the Information, whea, where and his evalustion of his source.

l'econald "blew his cool".

He said 1f he did so, ve would figure out

uo his source was and contact the source dircctly and push the source

-arosal to pet that ve wanted. I told McDonald we did not push people

around; that I had perconally hoard the Director comment years ago

that he would nor permit any pressure on anyone, anytine, anywhere.

Neronald replied,

"Thon he has changed. I know that people have been

pusied around by CIA".

I asked who, when and where. le replied it

happesed after will In "1947, 48 or 50 in connection wich che Katyn

Passcero Investigation". I sold his that to the best of my knowledge

ve had nothing to do with the Katya Inquirion, that 16 vas a Congresetosal

Coulsion that looked Into the matter.

3.. I anked McDonald 1f he felt he could nor truat us then why

bother to pass along Inforsation to us... He said that he wants the

governess to have the infornation that he feele is important; that

ano trusto me to pass it along; that he keeps a record of what ho passos

to us in tho event it is ever said he had information and failed to

pass it along.

NcDonald then proceeded to tell ma that "new, short, fat missiles"

have beon shipped loto Cuba; that they are so-called defensive missiles

but are a toe that can take a "multi-head offonsive warhead".. The

shipsent to Cuba fron the USSR cook place three-four monthe ago. These

So. Next, IcDonald said that there are tuo sets of people involved

Is the current bossings of banks, offices, etc. One 1e a racial group

made up of black militants and the other a group of shite US and Canadian

trained "sappers" who ain at dlerupting everything. He stased that he

Dred Fa mi

diliping zaf

francsine

---

## Page 42

14-00000

SCHET

has a 113t of large cospanles to be targetod in thie aroa (probably

the Al1 Poista Bullotin I received 10 days ago which listed four

6. Azals, Echosald cald he would not reveal his sourcee or any

thing about then that would enable us to identify then..

7. Mesonald vest on to say, "e are spending a lot of posey on a

lot of campuses to obtain intelliyence." then asked for some detailo

he backed off and sald they vere just atarting and had to be careful

how much thoy speat.

8. A little later on he spoke of talking to a 20 year old sealor

¿no had been in his office and the attitude expressed by thia atudenz.."

about yung people and the establishment (thie could bo one of bia:,

LEacCable sourceS of information).

9. McDonald chen said his organization had gathered together some

"very Interesting statisties on student protests." He caid there are

25 million college stulents; cae-quarter of chene are freshnen sao do

- Bot Involve chenselves; one halt of the 25 million are sophonorca

End juniora. Thece aro the seal source of trouble. The seniors are

concerned about graduation and a Job and inclined. to forget protesta

and lcan torerda the establishsont as of now.

Hovever, as tire passas

and stuccats see pronored by the tine they vill becoas studente they

will reoc-ber befrig part of a protest, their pictures being on file

end will feel they will never get a job and will, therefore, becoas

part of the permanent call-catablishsent group.

(These "statiotles"

vere not supported by any written reporte or other daca.)

10, During the coversation McDonald said thee, "iron personally

o beat 20 hashington people out to ma to consult with us on a program."

"Further remarks revealed chat the laahington, DC police departiont was

contacted by one of Felonald's people in an attempt co sall a helicopter®

police patrol training program.

11. Obriously, Yasonald le overly ispressed with himself; is prone

to a hich degree of exasseration and truth-atretching; 1s not loclined

to cooperate fully and one should be careful not to be talen in by him.

8231/ 8g

CC°

PRET

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SEGRET

54-61-88

LA- 254-70

18 March 1970

DireCtOr. DCS

for sortet Bloe Diviaton

Chief.

Office

USSR/Chloa Tension

6

1. Hugh C. McDonald, World Assoclates, Ince, Santa Monica, a fomer

Deputy SherifE of Los Angeles County and son in a private detective

security businass, telephoned me on 17 March 1970. He said he has learned

from "an impoccable source" that, "by August 1970 the USSR will hit China."

Also, that the soviete have solved the problems they heve been having with

chole MIlY system.

2.

McDonald refued to provide any information concerning the

qualificationa of hia source to provide rellable data. In fact, he became

a bit vered when the matter was brought up.

I regard IDorald as a prina donns, an opportunlot and one

inclined to exaggerate. Homever, I poes the above alons for the record.

→ RPHL/ bas

Files.

Norld Assoctates, Inc.

(augh C. McDocald)

SECRET

cinded tis

33:9925:44

---

## Page 44

1425

Co, 5.0es

4-61-88

23

2:-cy 1539

Suplses:

5144859

46188

Marld doscernges

On 13 January: 1970,

412 112"2

1.:9

the tor.e

In verloce

1a cannecalEa dien bene

intan:

n= tha ta

==11;

casi

citro ta

asi vin

=2: 21i08-:2

New York,

in arecing te

scorsity naraches ther

12ild 12arast

in fornida coontel2s.

cie, ho cacé

1722.22 122

Dienning to Dur don Cañosechina officero es the pegaolt in

Todote Citatrios

Laze ace

In sutig

2ob in lleisen fos

Beate sane eight De Monoulas

Susi

Credio corda, d6 carchenta,

In randono chelco in tho courasy.

stolen on franducentir Esatad

aná vasá, and caso his enganzaation is ratificó cazosga ris ico cocoraciara

emplogaas, la rould nochey et tho banka, bossie, esca,

ca tis

1n the caoy is ca

210ra and not cheace saything to casa está.

*.

Tas saend of tho cosversation indicated tase

=5na12 tus soria

t1o creenlacears.

natod nin ether of not

as ind costen te o4t tho Sound as yo: and fe

3036 20621 205,

buc. thet he ras

2127743÷ 6097 10 E22073

Dabauna 1070 duchao tish de hopod to sina ca lea coronaomone edetera

1a difiumont cicies to vork for hia.

?ia

propic en a monshly setainas.

Fa feals ka cill

1100.e

Aut thide

camacinacion going in dictaront countrico that 1ild paeried

cacronic,

"-Donata cas to: 235

nadd ung dira arrangomento ulth the Dear cã Lasrica Or InscI-$=:

Se:"I cold Nadoraidaisa, I had provicusly iommedod informanten conestaiag

h1o plans to ay haségunators and toue ths zapay I od cuecárdá ass trata

an his oscanicasion sed lay

cascarrone casiti-siona

seanose to the areas%.

200eaai3

tico suitchos

-ale

the conterartas

cc.

ales

mo 1ss moraly antonesica in aricaaiag es 05

calciones dó lilo organinazica cuzcad.

C=

ais basis, I caid

CE malte

Capy F: 149854

1

---

## Page 45

14-00000

-2.

Astro goating sits tarmala ca suo ecessiona cos I deca

ana 56 13

2951/333

LOS, Services Elvision

---

## Page 46

"'...o..

ingis isenge tlate

14.00000 7

is dsnsscio-sie ..oum.,

ti paae

nai an ap tigen

die 4r.

---

## Page 47

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 48

14-00000

12 55 PM '59

SECRET T SEP SEP CITE CONTACTS RAGINGICH

84251

FROM 055

CLOSED

CASE 32.375

HUGH CO VEDONALERNSLE ASSEGIATES, DOC.

REFS LANG 2225

RE REF

TORIORDO HAS FEES IN TOUCH MITM SH. MEDONALD

ON MATTERS OF INTEREST TO ORD, HOWEVER. THI: INTEREST DOES NOT

PRESENTLY HAVE ANTTHING TO DO VITY 900CGALD'S TORE APROAT. THERE 15

NO OSJECTION WHATEVER TO YOLE SRIEFING MA DESRIEFIXG OF SCCOYALD AN

POSSIBLE FOI POTENTIAL.

PLANS TO SE IN MOLE ASEA ASAIY EN

ABOUT THRES SEEKS TO DISCUSS CAR MATTERS WIRE MODUALO AND GILL

CONTINUS IO MEET WITH HIM AND TO DISCUSG CHLOTEE ACTIVITIES. WREN

BEEN ASSURED THAT TORONALD'S RELATIONSHIF WITH DER ANO COSSISIY

OTHER CS COMPONENTS WILL IN NO WAY CONFLIOT WITH YOUS EUGENDEN USE

OF MCDONALDA AS A SOURCE OF FOI. MODORALE IN MEITHER A COUTRACTOR

HOR A CONSILTANT FOR

DOSET.

SECRET

---

## Page 49

5:4-61-88

Auc 29

SECRET 2919402 AUG GO CITE

CONTACTS/YASHINGTON

TO OSS

SUBJECT.

CASE 52572 (CLOSES)

I KAVE AN APPOINTRENT GITH

SEPTE9D78 4

DISCUSS HIS TRAVEL ABROAD• ME INDICATED NE HAS BEEN DISCUSSING

MIS TRIP WITH "PEOPLE IN MASHINGTON". I GOT IVE IDEA THAT ISO/ERO

ARF THE "FEOPLE" AAC THAT THEY MAY KOVE TURDOFTE ABOUT BRIEFING

MIME IF SO I DO HOT WANT TO APPEAR NOT WITTING TO THE DEGREE OF

STUPIDITY. PLEASE DETERMINE IF. DO/SSE ELEMESTS ARE PLANNING. TO

TASK SCRONALD IN BOY WAY COKCERNING HIS TRIO FOO I LAVT TO

DETERMISE IF MIS TAIP OFFERS ANY POTENTIAL FOR FES. ALSO. PLEASE

DETERNISE IF MODONALD IS A DOISET COSSULTANE OR CONTRACIOR.

SECRET

2146

42 ini

---

## Page 50

14-00000

Ara 23

63. ha 50

SECA

882915392 APR 69

ait: cours

4/r1

CasH 19.9 21219

15 A-149859

FEOM OSS

CASE 32,892

P.EF SE

EASHO@3.792 AND 1AY?=3:77

HA-TUX WAS BASES O! LUFOREATICE DETAINE: EURO REPRED PRATIVE

FROM DADA MUO MAY HAVE OVERCOTIRATEN G020909G9G CATRGOIECE TO BE

OF SERVICE TO HIS FORNER BENSFAGIORSO DE ARE FOLLIES FERDING

COMPONENTS TO DETERGINE RESPONSE TO MiS PERSE TO COME TO JASMINTAS

OM.R MAY AS IGOICATGO IN COO0N0 RE CH1 017H 9E 34001G 1945

REETING OF MINDS DE EXTENT GID SCOPE TO BUICE BOEOGALA COULD

ARCE TO SISCUSS OR DEMOSSTRATE HIS VOICE INCHT SUSADE CITE AGESOT

REPRESENTATIVES, UNO ARE GUALISILO TO DISCUSS SUCH MATTING AROS A

SECURITY STANDPOINT. THE ITINERARY DE HIS VOID TRIP IN IMPORTANT

UT NOT A PRESSINO MATTER AT THIS TIME. IF TURNT IS SURPIGIEIT

OPERATIONAL INTEREST, WE CAN SERVE RECUEREXENES LATER NATE PORE

ISFORGATICY IS AVAILASLE REGARDINO MIS IS CALLED GORLD TOLE IN THE

FALLO SHOULO MCDONALD SE DISFOSER TO CORE TO LAGHINGTOR CARE WENTLY

MAKE THE NECESSARY ARPANGEMEYIS FOR THE AROGIUTRENT SUP ISpOONUeTIC:

TO ISD/ORD REPS--HIS POINT OF CONTAST ROULE DE DOS/OSSI

---

## Page 51

PASE 2 ECITACTS/WASHINGTON 23000 SPO

SHOSE OFFICE TELEPHONE CAN DE FURSIONER TO AROUNDO WHER WE LEARN

1718 19 3679H0OE MIR GNIITAR C62110 OL NSIX CHR 3EONX 30 SSWUN

BE GLAD TO FURSISH HARES BUT THE CONTACTING ARCAGOPENIS ABOVE

MENTIONED WILL RENALS INTACHO SHOULE ICOCEALE LADICATE SIGHS SE ANY

HIS VOICE ISENT

SYSTEM AND/O" OTHER GADGETS WRICH MAY BE ME INTERESI

TO CIAO HOULD SUGGEST DISCHGARETCUT. DOSOLOSIOTIE SAGUERRY BRRSCHE

INFORMED IMEY HOLD TOP SECRET CLEAHANCE ON SUPNECE SIYCE 1961.

SECRET

•.t.

---

## Page 52

17-01-81.

69. lid LE 11

147 540

SECRET PALEINZ AFA NO CITE

CONTACEEALASHINGTON

IO O5S,

CASC 52572

MUGA C. SCOONALE, WORLE AGGOCLATRO 1УCO, 4EE9L"3."E THAT 9099095

DEMONSTRATE MIS VOICE HOENTIFICATICH CYSTOR WAITH NO REGARDS AS & MISHLY

SENSITIVE SYSTEM FROM A SECURITY SISNORALIT. ME ALSE DIO GOT FANTO

EE IN UASHINOTCH MINTY TUE MEND THERE WEEKGA MIE SO TELLEO GOALE TOUR

VILL EGGIR SORETICE THIS FALL WITH GUESS FIRST TO LATE CORICELE

RETURN TO DOO A TRIF TO CUROPE, MATURN US 190 A FIND CHIP TA F99 E43TO

INS CHICAGO BSPHESENTATINE OF TIE FISH CLANG SO CAPFECCATENG THE FIREAT

AR'S FAY MGETING WITH FINANCIA CERERAL GROUP GO. TA VEGMIRSTOS.

MCDONALD AGREEABLE TO GOISO MINSCUE SUO TO MACTING METU AGENCY PEOPLE TE

IF YOU VILL PROVIDE US VITA MAMES, ¡BLESHONE NUADERGAIG. 19713E0H

SECRET

ExCA

---

## Page 53

ATIN:

15-4-61-88

Chief. TSD/MES

22 April 1969

{- 5-45788

4-14-98-51

DCS Case 52872 liugh C. Nclonald - Morld Associates,

Inco, Santa Monica,

California, vilers to Assist Agency

Subject is weld known to TSD and ORD corponents 3$

developer of lentl-kit.

More recently he has bech involved in

developine a positive vuice lientification syster (not to be

confused with voice prints). McDonald is willing to demonstrate

this systes to intercated TSD consucers and uther corponents

of the Agency.

More importantly,

subject is planing a world eour

of fureige ainistries, dunking and business institutions, polico

organizations and iriendly intelligence services, to desonstrate his

various provuces. sueject's itinerary has nor been firned up but will

be available when plans are completed for the nordo tour. lle plans to be

In Washington on olier business natiers in the nest

three lecks and would

be glad to denonstrate his voico identification systeu to TSD and ORD

ropresestatives and accopt any operazional requiracents which way be

genorated by appropriate TSU consurers, in connection vira his world cour.

Ke would appreciato TSD's ranction to fir. Nelonald's offer

and some indication o?

the nunber of Agcacy representatives who rould be

Interested in reeting with Mr. McDonald in Fashingzon, Do fo

3.

Further inquiries should be directed to

DCS, Operacional Support Staff, Estension 2268.

JAMES R. HURPITY

ce: Services Div, (Control)

SECILT

---

## Page 54

147

CONFIDENTIAL

146/88

tasong

GALE

A 37722

erasa to e es

C80 trEs 05

PH NG SCA mM TS &

saçs sn cotids SanAna

Sorlt, ty mdltusa ly sgee

ĐHa ch & Đuá: G3

A46188 I0

mist Eratey S2K

Esaaes, Cuono Buc Kin

tis cimndy engana

fasSa tan muracd be ensentns dus

MAg C S0 331748

cans end ches saansl, ce uate

sho ba gon dn Emanse

Se En tems santa tacte

Mace enig thes cay

SÀD BI0 B1 CAoe C t0 e 6063

Cn tho mir có my cự:u hoo trg tẹ đnntr ta hút mirm đa

Cas fna Latin Baisog Mnosat

EN LAIM EENED GANE Buy Ca

L omn i9 mn D2 ên gua toatn t00 1s Bộy cham Ga 8

gununs to ms tho soo dơng hup ea 2-'6 empacn pina

SHì LANG Ga rny tO Ba

sn cun en eripr e

TO Fu CE

0522:0039

CONFIDÉNTIAL

37722

---

## Page 55

14-00000

tl1-t122.

21 ApEr$ 1560

Chlos, Benalty Stars, 01

Ideath 118

@ 5 fril 1N0 the doralened Internered Osas HurtA

do Tha allechad "jaso Bullalas® antiole taken tre the jebray

1S60 1a0 el ta Tolenos and lochastor Hajanine, vas period and dlo

eared, clos reinald slatad thit ta vos aura of the artele en

had talked ill Me. Guarter Quone, sales kanoyer of fazasons Ladnese

Let so rida, bo battalán arounder stis by da are or tao d. 8.

Too artiela vas mrittan by a tone lance roperter ly the name al

Jonenh trante trite Jesenh freal vas present at a press boullai, in

K18 von sodo pabile, harves, Chiot Masonild made 18 very clara that Che

poser of the progras vas not sentioned and that a guanral floura of

$60,000.80 763,000 vas Elves no tbo coot of the projent chies Medenala

Ahouphe bast end lson arabad that la sad announcod the spanior en solse

wester Joseph Frai

9: Cial Redesald van very meli aloturbed by tila artlalo us oratol

Eat 1l he cond moves my inferrestos regarding sues he voold prompel

motisy the appropriato Argy pereous:

Hit 4/02.20-

---

## Page 56

74.00000

TP eSu

jensore ennts- 1t®

8.

9.

EFPROTEDR

cala, s1/0

Astarirasas

Bletrlbatlens

201o. 6 1 - Mlarocaos

• To. IIle

1n Carono

2317 (21 A78S2 66)

• 2.

emity oilees, s0/01

idaeens

HH-6122

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

4-61-88

FIELD

DEFICE

11248

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMÉSTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

B. §SPORT

BLABER

FOR FIELD USE DALT

C-RE O. CODE

311121911619

FOR HEARSIARTERSULA ONLY

RECEIVED

*UMBEI

18107 88/10.20

мо.

Da.

123|23|26|29|29

28|2:195187/52|33

AA D8:D6

L

A

53299

9

6 31 2 91.6

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

BILLAD

Horld Associates, Inc.

RELEASED

38. 1ra

80/01 220061

G. CONTACT (hoco, Tirlo, Organimon, Address)

Hugh C. McDonald, President

World Associates, Ine.

406 Wilshire Blud.

Santa Monica, California 90401

M. SOURCE (Nano, Tria, Organision, Address)

I DIY IDUAL NO.

49

TYPE OO-E

RATED

ORGANIZATION NO

INDIVIOUAL NO.

REPCATS, OTHER

SUBJECT

BISB EX.

190967

4768169

clo

1o20006

AREA

91 82/98/98

$13

Some

OFGANIZATION NO.

1. SUB-SOURCE (Nano, Titlo, Organizerion, Address)

INDIVIUAL NO.

8.COMBINED EIT

ORGANIZATION NO.

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

merries

EVALLATIDN

REQUESTED FROM

Trip Repar

JOchor (spority below)

USSR ONLY

EX CHANGÉS

(CHECK ONE)

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

RE: PONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

CeS

Orher Documen

FIELD COMMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

ATTH: OSS

508M 25

Obserte previous

editions

Case Ofou

SECRET

Divis

id

co

20id 1]

=

---

## Page 58

4461-88

B-E-C-X-Y-T

SUBJECT!

SIA 00-1(58-322/26339-69

10 Septenber 1969

DCS Case $3199

Horld Associates,

Ince

On 4 Septenber 1969, Chief, LAFO, net with Hugh C. Medonald, Prestdent

of World Ascociates Inc.

* former law enforcement officer (Chief or

Detectives,

808 Anzalos County Sheriffs' Office, retired) he has an excellent reputation

among law enforcenent ngcoeles. He has cooperated with the Agency fully in

the poet. He 18 a cleared source of LAFO/DCS.

ilo.

Since his rotirecent MeDonald has started World Associated Ince, a

cospany vith tro divisions, the Security Divlelon and the Aircraft Divlalon.

3.

The Security Diviaion provides, as lia primary service, a bank

security systes, designed to provide benking. Institutiona with a neans to

control and curtall lossos fros fraud and robbery.

4.: Tho Alreraft Divlsion vas set up because of the excluaive contract

World Associates has with the Hughes Tool Coopany (Hughes Afrcraft) for the

sole of holicoptero to low enforcenent agencios, to operate a helicopter pilot

tratning achos! for municipal and other In enforcerent agencios sud to bandle

the Inotallation of helicopter patsul Dystens. Ibio contract eppliea to all

countries except the US.

M-Donald Bald he expocts to nell the llughes. jodel

300 hellcopter to foreign law enforcecent'agencles.. None of these has been

cold abroad, with the exception of the Philippines. Ho will have to opca: up

offleco in order so demonstrate, coll and arrange for nervicing of the

helleopters. A helicopter pilot-salessan and a techaical representative would

be recded at a beginning cost of about $19,000 per year. McDonald said he

would have a good, plausible resson for setting up such

on office in Long Kong,

not only to sell and service police helicopters in the Crovn Colony, but also

to uge ga: o bage for other Asian country activities. McDonald expecte. co

stert exploring the foreico police potential for holicoptere in the near

future, beginning with a trip to south Auerica.

So. The possibility of using foreiga offices to pronote the activicles of

the Security Division of the company also exiets.

6. Currently, lcDonald Is in Havall and le exploring the possibility of

setting up a police intelligence school in Havail to train police officers

from Asian countries.

Attached are copies of data pertaining to prospectus, products,

services, etc.

Excite: Dug 5782.

dandy, da

---

## Page 59

SECRET

(When Filled In)

4-61-82

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONET

FOR HEADQUARTEDIUSE ONLY

FIELD

3. REPORT

C-REO. CODE

OFFICE

CASE

E.

NUMBER

NUMBER

1003

• 16)

18188 18.18126

HE L

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

C0E0E

2 1

52822

RECEIVED

830.

Da. Fa

22 29|24 29 28

04309

B02a 20/26/30/23|39

36189/39

1203/96

9

RELEASED

Request for Information on Horld Associates, Ine.

NO.

Ba.

97/28 39

408102/0368

(==)

G. CONTACT (Masa, Villo, Organiselles, Address)

15148

INDIVIDUAL MO.

Hugh C. McDonald, Prenident

World Ausociatee, Inc. - Suite 203

406 Wilshire Boulevard

ORGANIZATION NO

Santa Moniea, Californie 90401

H. SCURCE (Name, Tirle, Organisation, Address)

€s

TYPE OO-E

MATES

MAPS

S

PERSE MA

SUBJECT

AREA

07/00|00/30 500031 38/53|36

INDIVIDUAL NO.

Same

TORGANIZATION NO.

1. SUB-SOURCE (Nace, firlo, Orgonization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

09882.

O.S0681880WITH

ORGANIZATION NO.

3. WETHOD OF COLLECTION

Interilow

Trip Resort

Orter Documans

FIELD COMMENTS

) Other (spocity below)

ATTH: OSS (usulio)

Tor background (Services Division)

attached are data concerning Horld

Associatesiand their products/services.

May we close case?

USSR ONLY

VALUATIO

EQUESTED FRO

EXCHANGES

(CHECK ONE)

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

1 HO

TOUSSR

TSD

FROM USSR

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

Capy to TSDI

Aried ince gardict.

Pleace Close Case

CAS

RPBLohmann/sg

FORMA 23

SECRET

8-000

Division/ Staff/Desk

OSS

00-011

---

## Page 60

SS0

4-61-88

COUNTRY: -

SUBJECT:

world Associates, Inc.

Hugh C. McDonald, President

406 Wilshire Boulevard

Suite 203

Sanca Monica, Calif. 90401

MLA OO-4(5) 322112039-69

30 April 1969

DCS Case 52872

1.

Interviewed 23 Apr 69, Hugh C. McDonald, a cleared DCS source,

Informed chat there appeared to be a sisunderstanding in connection wich

his visiting kashington.

First, he does not plan on going to lashingion

bimself; a representative from

che Chicago Office 1s going for the purpose

of necting with the Financial Group Company. Next, McDonald said he has

not offered to demonstrate his Voice Ident Systen.

Finally, he does not

plan a "world tour".

Rather, sonetime this Fall he plans on visitiag

bankers and government security people in various Latin Averican cousceles.

He will return so the US; then, lacer on, visit various European countries.

Again he will return to the US and then visit various Far Eastein countries.

His purpose in making these trips is to sell Hughes helicopters to foreign

• police departments combined with possible sale of his check cashing security

Mysten to banking institutions.

452.

McDonald will Inform DCS/LAFO of his travel plans when they are

firmed up.

.3.. McDonald 1s willing to go to Washington, D.C. hiaself. on 8-9

May and reet with

TSD/OND people there to "discuss" his Voice Ideas

System, but he is not prepared to do so unless ISD/ORD, have some

specific problens which his systen will help solve.

He feels otherwise

It would be a waste of time.

Lor. The above discussed with DCS/oSS

29 Apr 69. It was

decided chat since ORD

nas been Ia contact with MeDonald

previously. char

Ideat Systea directly with McDonald.

Peiscuss the possible meeting on the Voice

¡NeDonald was informed 29 April to expect a call from

*that DCS/LAFO Would follow up later concerning his cravels abroad.

- end -

---

## Page 61

SECRET

(When Filled In)

4-61-72

FIELD

OFFICE

128e:

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

KEPORT

NUMBER

C. RED. CODE

rona 13! 1819

Bonde

CASE

NUWEER

16/1771018|201

RECEIVED

DA.

22/ 33129 29 281

FOR ME WARTERS USE ONLY

LOAT 4D.

PEARE

496/33/36

M L

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Саве 52722

5

2721

2

0,4

2

9

9

1 1 8

8

9

6

RELEASED

4о.

DA

P7 30 29

00101 03/43/48

G. CONTACT Diase, Tile, Dipenisetten, Addess)

93419

Hugh C. MeDonald

TYPE OO-E

World Associates, Inc.

ENETIONS

MAP$

01s9E641-

406 Mllshtre Bld.

ORPORTS, OTHER

Santa Monica, California

SUBJECT

BUTY EN

H. SOURCE Diana, Tirlo, Orpaniserion, Address)

83/48 48|50

AREA

30 52 53 56

LE DRAG

Same

9. 5299

I. SUB-SOURCE (Nano, Tille, Organization, Address)

METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview

Other Doceem

FIELD COMMENTS

THIS IS A SENSITIVE REFORE.

Trip Ropon

Osher (spocity balow)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORDANIZATION NO

INDIVIDUAL NO.

OROANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

EVALUATION

REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY

EXCHANGES

(CHECK ONE)

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

MEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC

REQUIREMENTS

To: 01/50

Deselele previous

editions

Cese Officer

SECRET

9-000

Division Staff/De sh

2

(20 1)

---

