# 104-10308-10184

## Page 1

7104-10308-10184

DISPATCH

Chivf, Special Affai's Staff

CLASSIFICALIUN

S. E CRE

t'HU

POSED

X

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARRED FOR INUERING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

AL. LIIM

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station,

_JMWAVE

SUECT Operational/TYPIC/AMLl:0

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Operational ProGress Heport AULLO-3 AmTREAK

ACTION REQUIRED:

None; FYI

REFERENCES:

1.

B.

UFGA-10196, 6 August 1000

C.

UFGN 2379,

6 August 1963

D.

UFGA-7858, 25 February 1963

OPERATICAL DEVELOPMENTS

This report will cover the period su July 1963 throuh

15 Septenber 1963 and is a follow-up report to ruference 1.

EFFORTS TO LEGALLY EXFILTRATE AMLEC-3 FAMILY FIOS CUBA

2. Since transmission of reference 1 to Headquarters

developments occurred which effectively eliminated several alternato

solutions to the problem of the AlLEO-3 family in Cuba.

alternate solutions that were eliminated, as found in paragraph

¿ of reference A, voro (a) "Maintain Status Quo as a Family

attempting Leave

Cuba via Offices of Swiss Embassy

as Part of the

American Repatriation Program': (b). "Have MMLL0-3 Family

Withdraw Papers From the Swiss Enbassy and American Repatrintion

Program and Attempt Leavo Cubans Normal Refugees via Mexico:

Or Spain"; and

(e) "Ilaye the AMLEO3 Family Case Taken up Kith the

GOC Through the 'Donovan' Channol for Possible Legal Extiltratiou".

Elimination of the above alternates left only two solutions

that were at all feasible; (c) "Have tho All.LO-3 Family

Asylum 1n either the Uruguayan or Mexican Embassics in Havana",

or (d) "Ilave tho AHLEO-3 Fanily Exfiltrated black in a Maritine

Operation by either a RUBARK. or Independent Maritine Team."

Because of the inherent risk Involved in a black exfiltration,

1t. was decided that tho 11150-3 fanily should be put into

asylum in either the Uruguayan or lexicon embassies with all

possible speed.

(CONTINUE))

Distribution:

3-lleadquarters w/att USC

Attachment:

USC

Idontities

CROSE REFERENCE TO

Escludes ten aromatic

technisthesing

- CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPED

1? Sept 6:

UFGA-11376

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-6-73/3

DATE DISPATCHED

19.6:84/3

---

## Page 2

13-00p00

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMDER

UFG^-11375

To this end steps wore initiated in on 24 July 1963

to put the AMLEO 3 fanily and AMLEO-2 into asylum in the Mexican

Embassy in Havana. The AMLSO-3 fanily and AMLE0-2 were advised

via the (AHWEE-L'OWVL channel on 4 August 1963 to proparo

themselves for asylum and to awalt furthor orders via thu same

channel.

KUBARK. Station In Moxico City, meanwhile, tool: urgent

action through

channels to have the Mexican

Foreign Ministry obtain visas for the MMLLO-3 family and

AMLEO2; and then send word to the Mexican Embassy

In lavana,

Cuba that the AMLEO-3 Inmily and AMLEO-2 should be granted

when they appeared at the Mexican Consulate under cover of

obtaining their visas

The visa portion of the operation was

interactorily completed and notitication of sane was sent into

the Mexican Embassy in Havana; but word re asylum for the

ANLEO-3 family and MuLiO-2 was not sent to the lexican embassy

due to insecure conno channels and lack of trusted couriers,

to.date. no secure. method has yet been found to notify the Mexican

Embassy in Havana that asylum should be granted to tho AlLEos.

As a result of the above, word was sent to (AuVIS-1)

via OWVL on 11 September requesting he detemine whether or

Identity A'would be willing to act as internediary to receive

the AMLTO-3 fanily and AMLED? Into asylum at a specific tine

and date at the Mexican consulate.

AMTRE-I asked for

clarification on the manner of approaching Identity A on the case .

on 13. September via pouch,

and more detailed guidance on the

mattor was sent to him via OWL on I1 Septenber.

re possibilities for action via this channel 1s oxpected fiou

(AMWES-1) momentarily. If the AMVEN-I reply is favorable, then

he will be told to arrange the meeting at the Mexican consulate

between the AULEOs and Identity A so that they can be taken into

asylum by the Mexicans.

As noted in reference B, if the MuiTe I roport 15 a

negative one, then consideration

will be given to having the

AMLEOs take asylun in the Uruguayan Embassy in Havana.

test case utilizing AUCANCE-3, nentioned in paragraph 5 i of

reference B, 1s to be atteupted on or about 21 August 1903, aud

If this attempt at asylus 1s successiui tuen arringenents vill

be made to have the MiCs enter the Uruguayan Imbassy in the

As noted in paragraph 1 of reference B, the wife

of AMLEO-3 finally made a direct contact with ANTHUG 1 on 7

September 1963, whilo he was at his Santa Marla beach house,

509512

and appealed to.: hin for permission to leave Cuba with hor

children and rejoin her husband MLEO-3 10

the Untted States.

EOn 14 Soptember 1963 AMLtiO-3 received a letter from his wife

giving more details on the above mecting.

The wife of ALLTO-3

been visiting the beach home of a

friend, situated

next. to that of ANTllUG-l on Santa Maria beach, on i

hoping to see AMTHUG-1.

Finally, on 7 Septenber 1965, she saw

him swinming alone in the ocean

and prouptly

Introduced herself

, and requested pamission to talk to bin.

AHTHUG-1 granted this permission, and during their conversation

AMTHUG-1 made it clear he would

not grant Mis.

AMLLC-3 permission

to depart Cuba at this time, stating

that the

the vas not

propitious due to the attacks and raids being chriled out

agalnst Cube, and that Mrs. MilEO-3 would just have to wait.

HIS. AMLEO-3

then told him she did not see why he was holding her

and her children responsible for what her husband id;

feared her husband might forget ber and their children completely

1f the separation continued, and that 1f ARLEO-3 was left nuch

longer alone he would find a womau to replace her.

replied by asking her "Do you consider yourself a burden to your

husband?"

The wife replied "It is

asked "But he callo you overy day „Possible", and allUG then

#mc0:105.4038

FORM

5.60

53a

VI4E PREVIOUS EDITION

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATIUN

SECRET

SPATCH STADOL ANU NUMDLI

UIGA-11375

Later during the conversation ATHUG-l asked

ALLEO-3 11 her husband still had the presentation Soviet

platol that he.had given him 1o 1961, and Mrs.

AMLEO. 3

Informed him that her husband had taken it with him when ho

defected and asked ANTIlUG-1 1f ho wantod it roturned to him.

AMTHUG-1 did not reply to the question.

Later on, while

discussing her conversation with AMTHUG. with Identity B,

Identity B suggested to Mrs. AMLEO-3 that she request ANLEO-3

to send the pistol back to AMTHUG-1 via Ambassador LECHUGA

at the United Nations, NYc.

Identity B added that the return

of the pistol might help matters since tho loss of the pistol bai

been one of the things that bothered AMTHUG-1 most when

AMLEQ-3 defected.

(1.c. AMLEO-3. has noted that these special

presentation Soviet pistols were given by ANTHUG-1 to probably

less than ten peoplo in Cuba, and their presentation had a very

special meaning for ANTHUG-1

since the recipients were supposed

to be his very personal and close frionus.

AMLEO-3 claims

that not even ANLOUT-1 had received one of these special

presentation pistols from AHTHUG-1:) Consideration is being

given to ANTHUG-l's request, 1f it would assist hrs. ANLEO-3

1n her efforts to leave Cuba, but for the time being the pistol

w1l1 be beld by kUBArk.

ANTIUG-1 also told Hrs. AlLSO-3 that her husband had

stolen a light plane when he fled and Implied (although sho

does not so state directly) that he would like to see it

returned.

The balance of Nrs. AMLIO-3's letter concerned her

desire to leave Cuba, mentioned the necessiy for sinness by both

she and her husband with no rash actions, and without giving

any additional facts stated that her conversation nith ANHUG-l

had boen a long one but that she could not get him to uake

any promises re hor departuro.

DEVELOPKENT OF OPERATIONAL LEADS TO DISEFFLCTED CUBANS

During tho operational period

one of AHLEO-3's

operational leads,

whom he had written a report on for

AMTRUNK PM operation', was recruitra via the recently successful

AMTRUNK infiltration operation and given the crypt of ATRuk-10.

AMLEO3 also screened additional ANTRUNK leads and KUlUBE

military leads during the period and was able to submit

reports on some four individuals for there operations.

All such

leads were fed to him mixed in with many other Cuban names.

AMLEO-3 i5 presently preparing reports on PHS target studies

Major Felipe GUERRA Matos and Major Jorge SEGUERA, Cuban

Ambassador to Algeria.

AHLEO-3 also assisted in tho handling of AMEO-5's

wife during the perlod when she established direct telephonic

conmunication with her husband in Cuba, and tried to convince

him that she wanted to return to Cuba with hor children,

but stipulated to A-5 that he would bave to mect her in a third

country first and resolve their personal family problens.

ALLIO 3 baby sat for the wife during these calls, since ve

only knew what day the calls would be coming in

and never the

He also nssisted Mrs. AMLEO-5 in recording the last telophr

conversation sue had with her husband.

In this same operation

AMLEO-3 also nssisted the Case Officer in the conversations

hold with the mother of AMLEO5 while she was in the United

States, although he sas never allowod to cstablish direct

We had hoped that the mother of

Abhe0-5 would attempt to establish contact on her own with

AMLIO-3, but to WAVE Station inowleuge she

never attempted to do

If she had, we would have allowed MMLCO3 to respond to her

contact efforts (maintaining his cover as boing disassociated

with ODYOKE).

11.

During the period fraguentary

Information has been

received fron the wife of AMIC" (uttlizing nicknancs or other

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

53a

USE PATVIOUS EDITION

SECRiT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

•DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

" DISPATCH SYMDOL AND NUMBER

UrGA- 11375

code phrases for individuals) indicating that Identity B

has continued to be very helpful to hor by supplying

her with blackmarket food, loaning hor her automobile, and other-

wise assisting her with hor probleus.

Identity B nay

carrying out such actiong on & genuine friendship basis,

(she has even been denounced by

the neighborhood defense

committee "ás assisting gusanos") or she may be bujing insurance

fox the future.

The possibility also exists that she is reaaining

a confidant of Mrs. AMLEO-3 on orders of AMTIUG-1 and is

reporting on all developments to AbTHUG-1•

In early September

1963 Raul PRIMELLES (201-127902) arrived at Identity B's

home for a visit while Mrs. AMLEO-3 was present.

Mr. and Hrs.

PRIELLES Ignored the presence of Mrs. A-3 and did not speak

to her-while greeting Identity B. Because of this Identity B

promptly turned her back on her visitors and did not answer

them, continuing her conversation with Mrs. AMLCO- 3.. Mr. and

MIS. PRIMELLES were thrown into some confusion by this reception

and departed from the area.

MrS. AMLEO-3 has also mentioned that UNSNAFU-12

was sost hind to her during her recent hone leave in Cuba,

and made it quite clear she was anxious to get in touch vith

AM.EO-3.

During the latter part of August Mrs. 1-3 again

mentioned to her husband that UNSNAFU-12 had writton Identity

B from Faris stating she was surprised at not having heard

frOM AMLEQ3.

ATTITUDE, MORALE, AND PERFORMANCE OF ANIEO-3:

During the reporting period AVLEO-3 lins consistently

cooperative with his C/O and has maintained & good

attitude

towards his work.

During the latter part of ligust 1963 AMEO-3

began to lose his patlence with the slow progross in gotting

his wife into asylum, and began requesting permission to icturn

to Cuba binscli

In order to exfiltrate his nife black.

became quite demanding in this regard nud clainod that kUBARK B

time had run out,

and since he had waited patiently for vinc

nonths he now felt it was his turn to try his luck.

Is extremely confident of his own ability in action situations

and oporations and extensive argumentation was neoced to

persuade him that such a course of action would be suicidal

for his wife and children and that his wisest course of action

would be to give us additional time to bring the asylum operation

to a successful conclusion.

Because of AXLE0-3'g faith in

nigner authority, COS JAMAVE, Andrew k. REUTLUAN visited AXLEO-3

on 8 September 1963 for the purpose of convincing him that any

unilateral action on his part would only be counterproductive

and playing right into AsTRUG-l's hands.

RUBARK's limited

cormitments to AMLFO-3 vere also reviered along with the history

of our actions to help his wife and children leave Cuba legally.

After some frank exchanges of facts AHLIO-3 was finally convinced

that the only productive course of action left to him was to

continue to sweat out the asylum proposition and hope for the

Absolutoly no further commitments were made to AJILEO3

during these discussions and alternate courses of action 1f

the asylum attempts fall were not discussed but instead left in

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT AND PLANNING

14. As previously mentioned in paragraph 13 of refurence A,

AALRO 3 went to URMITAl during the period 26-30 July 1963 for

the purpose of obtaining a French visa for his allas

documentation.

ANLEO-3 successfully obtained the French visa

during this trip, and his alias passport now contains valid visas

for travel to Spain and France.

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

FORM

5.50

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

---

## Page 5

13-0,0000

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMPOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-11375

WAVE Station regrots that reference C has not been

answered to date.

In reply we can only state that ML:O-3

was thoroughly briefed on the limitations of his alias documentation

when said documentation was issued to him.

He was told that tha

credit card documents could never be used for identification or

credit purposes.

He. had also been warned to avoid situations

where he would be asked for positive identifiention, such as

renting a car, and by attempting to procure a rental car 1n

cRAftAL he was acting contrary to lostructions given to hin

by his WAYS CLo.

On MHILEO-3's return to WAVE he was castigated for

his actions, and again briefed on the limitations of his allus

documentation.

In order to strengthon his alias documentation

an. I.D. card document identifying him as an employeeeof 4

has been Issued to hin,

as suggested by

(Chester D. DAINOLD In conversations with AMFO-? 1n ERMETAL.

drivers licenso for actual use by the subject and the address

a legitimate safchouse with backstopped rental cover.

Subject's

cover story was that he recently moved to the Miami area from

New Orleans, Loulslana (which city the Subject lived to for

several years and has relatives residing thore). The Subjet's

documentation is therefore correct for his cover story.

spelling of "instaluent" on the National Credtt Card was correctly

copied from the original document reproduced by KURIOT and we must

point out that "instaluent" is not only

correct necording to the

dictionariés but 1s the

spelling-of. the word nilch is now fregucutly:

preferred.': (The Wall Street: Journal invariably prints the nord

as "Instalment" with one

"I"T Tt would be appreciated TI

Headquarters would In the future coordinate with KURICT in

Headquarters on questions which deal with AQUATIC matters prior

AMLBO-3 continues to receive a flat salary of five

hundred dollars ($50J.00) per month, and also is paid approximately

one hundred dollars ($100.00) per mouth for purchase of fooistuffs

sinco he is encouraged to cat his meals in the KUbARk

safehouse and stay out of public places.

We have also continued

to pay the wife of AlLiO-S the amount of one hundred and twenty five

dollars ($125.00) per month for subsistance for herself and her

two children to supplement the $120.00 per month she recelves

from the Cuban Refugce Center.

. The C/O has continued his efforts

to find part-time employment

for MrS. AHLHO-5 so that KUBARK

could be rolleved of the necessity to support ber, but to date

we have been unsuccessful in our efforts primarily because Mrs.

AMLEO-5 has never worked in her life and has no work skills

whatsoever.

contemplated for any other AlLEOs.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

During the reporting period no positive intelligence

reports were disseminatod by the AMLEO group since none of the

active agents are locater! in the target area, nor do they

circulate in Cuban exile circles.

He are continuing to utilize M1DEO-3 as a consultant

on the MIAPRON program, and to this end are planning to have

him oxpand his reporting of personality intornation on selected

individuals and to utilize him to explain

interconncetions

between various individuals and groups as

they take shapo in

MHAPRON research®

CLASSIFICATION -

FE"M

85.60

53₫

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

1171

"PAGE NO."

---

## Page 6

13-00000

¿ CONTINUATION OF

DISRATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRKT

DISPAICH SYMUUL AND NUMBER

UFGA-11375

FUTURE PLANS

•19. Future plans for operational exploitation of AlLEO-3

continue to remain the same as outlined in detail in reference D.

The operational use of AMLIO3 in defection/recruitment

operations will not be permitted until his wife and children are

successfully put into asylun in one of the Latin Anerican Embassies

in Havana.

20. WAVE Station will continue to worl on AuLloj jevelopmental

cases concentratlug on MLAPRON leads, and attempt to build two-

way communications channels into such leads. AMLE0-6 1s st1ll

considered to be the best qualified lead by

AMLIC-S to act as.

principal agent and recruiter of other disaffected nilitnry

personnel in Cuba.

Details on these

developmental oprrations

#111 be reported via separate dispatch.

END OF DISPATCHI

-CLASSIFiCATION.

¡PAGE NO.

3. 60

53a

!''E PREVIOUS FDITION.

---

