# 104-10529-10251

## Page 1

104-10529-10251

1 did teres

20 81

ROOK

LENSACK AS FELOR

$2.57

1995,9910

1.,

1.05

1d/555, 36:

i satis

BOUT INT

CHE OR

80859

PERARD

RAR BAST - AFRICA BRILY

CROPORE LE SLANTS. IRMAINLEG INPO EELRARASIS TO MALSON.?

1. ALOURIA 1080CCO: THE CRASE-PIRE WHICH AS TO HAVE BEEK

IMPARTED L NOY SICANS SPECTIVE A DOV SITA ANIVAL ON A BALIAN

OPSSAVER AS 2A3 PRONT. A SECOND MALIAN OUVICS AND TVO ITRIOPIAN

DESTEVENS NARRATEY ARE STILL TO COA.

& IMON TEN TE ANCAN FOLSIGH MINISIZES" CONPERENCS

COFVENED XE ADDIA ABABA IN TVO TASTE,

THE DELAY

BRING DIE TO BLUES OP CONJURICATIONS AND ACCHITARCES. I/ THE

FORETON MINITERS AER TO ESTABLISH A COMICSION TO FIT REFONSIBILIT.

FOR TIR BOSTILITIES AND TO BUSHIT PROPOSALS FOR A SETTLERT.

.2.

JORDAR: POLLOVIND CADINET CHARORA 31' OCT KINC MRNAYN

STILL ROPES TO PRESUADY OPPOSITION BLAMENTS TO PARFICIPATE IN TiP

SAPREEN

BECRET

sand parle dacionari

Is raponte

---

## Page 2

CLASEIFED MESAGE

1; Not 1961394.

15 A,

ater

119,

ESCA. 1A66.1i

#*?964F

INFO :

CITE DIR

f-F5G

i BAGE TOO

HI OL CEO

BARS IS IGIR'S PORLARITY AND EEDUCS. THE

EE APARTLY ALSO

SUCH NATIONALIE MINTITS TO FIS CABINET

DEE

0B273 AF

COND: I

MAX IS A 03

TIVE: AN DILE

TADIN? ITS CArED BECAUSE

WEAT EL

REGAR AB A NOSE INIAT SAT TO

MOON THIS MATHET

Are FA.

TATIONS VITE YES OPPOSITIÓN BACSITIY BAVE POCUND

Of SULATE MAGUST A

PRO HASID FOCRE FRILE MUNISURE AND LEADER

On DOU

AND SATIONAL SOCIALIST PARTY. SO WAR TARS ESCOTIATIONS

ALY SCANY MARUSY AN IXS TANNY

CUSTOMS HAM COME IEUIUSENDATION THAN ISYU PARED TO

GRANT TIRE.

O 31 ICTTES KINO APPOINTED NABULEX TO THX SENATE. CANINET CHAIRS AN

SOURCED THE SANS DAY DO NOT SSUBNTIALLY CHANCE THS CHARACTER OP

THE JORDANIAN COVERNANT AND PROBATLY TILL SS FECHIVRY UITE SWIFTEENCE

BY THY JORDARIAN PUNLIC. THE EBSIONATION OF TURN

OANUNNINOOOY LININIONY ON PO THE OUT LINT MOISE

---

## Page 3

• 0.

-FACE THERE-

SOME RRBHUPYLING OF HESPONSIBILITIES; MAY CONSTITUTE AN IMPROVBHENT

IN TERS OF CONPITERCE AND INTRGRITY. THE POlIGN HIRIsTRY, WHICH

PAINS MINSTER SHABIT HUGAYR PORTALY BRADED, PROBABLY WILL H

HAVE PINNA LEADSHIP UNER AFTON ATALLAH, A SHOWINENT AND RESPECTED

LAWYER AND BARLE FROM JERAL. 1O OF FE OTHEAPOIS

VILL REPLACE HINTSTENS WHO HAVE BEEN SUSPICTID OF CORRUPTION. " (CONP)

3. SYRIA: THE BAATHIST IRGINES SOCIALIST ERASURE AND ITS

FUICES: OP FORBAATHIST MILITARY AND CIVIL ASIANTS AlS RAPIDLY

BIAS LINIA UP AID MINIS CLASS EVE MIN ALIENTED

DECLARE IMBITION TO ELIMINATE PRITATE ENDICAN PRACTICE TO

"COLLECTIVIIS" PARSINC AND TO DAYSLOP VORKER ADMINISTHATION OF

INDUSTRY. TRY BAD ALFRADY BERN OPINED BY BARLIER UNSTRECTIONS

ON PRIVATE SITZAPRISKIAIO BY A TECHM REDUCTION IN COV

PANDIT

SALARIES

ALTROUGH THE BEGINS IS MARIAG A STRONG DID FOR SUPPORT OF SYRIES

PEASANTA AND GORERS. FEBE ELEMENTS NAVI PRADITIONALLY PLAYED ONLY:

ABCRET

1Al 1 1900136

dear Nia,

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

12000)

ROUTING

.4

ROOM: DRICTOR

DEFEARED

ROUtiNG

INFO

TC

INFO

CiTE DIR

50859

A MINOR DOSE IN SYRIAN MILFPICS.

A SURVENTIAL NAMER ON VI LUCATED AND FACINTCALLY TARIFE

SYRIAN ARE 1235IN HAYS SO TAVE TAS COUNSY. THEIS DE

ANTONE

COOLD CHIPME ME LAMEROY EX

• TO INE

ET BECIAL AND ECONOMIC

TAGE TO 10 INDICAPION ME DINTED MINIS CO TER UPFE?

OB BIDES CLASSES ANA POSITING AN

THE TOY. CAPABIVE PINGIES CY FOR DRAPIST ANT OFFiCES

HAS ALINITED ANDIESS IMPOSTAY GAOUP VHICH COULD FOSS A 888IO0S

POTENTIAL TERRAT TO CONTINUED BAATHIEY SOLE:

(com

BRD OP, BEBBAGE

---

