# 104-10122-10279

## Page 1

104-10122-10279

EYES ONLY

SECRET

* OCT 1973

SUBJECT: Robert A. Mahou

1.

Robert A. Maheu was born on 50 October 1917 in

Waterville, Maine. He graduated from Holy Cross College,

Norcester,

Massachusetts In 1940. He is married and has

four children.

2. He was employed as a Special Agent with the

Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1940 to 1947.

resigning from the Bureau a venture into private enter-

prise culminated in bankruptcy in 1952.

his bankruptcy, he was employed as Special Assistant to

the Administrator,

Small Business Administration with the

specific duty of Director of Security.

In February 1954,

he was forced to resign for political reasons fron this

position.

He then established his own investigative

organization known as Robert A. Maheu Associates, and

rented desk space in a suite occupied by Carmine

S. Bellino,

& former Bureau Agent, Certified Public Accountant, and

currently employed on Capitol Hill with one of the Congres-

sional Committees.

3.

MT. Maheu's organization successfully handled a

Including Niarchos, Schenley

Union, and ultimately Howard Hughes.

Although he has main-

tained offices in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, most

recently he resided in Las Vegas, Nevada.

4. He was initially recruited by the Office of Secu-

rity in 1954 and granted a Covert Security Approval on 30

August 1954.

He performed many sensitive assignments for

the Office of Security, and also accepted assignments from

elements of

the predecessor of the Deputy Director for

Operations.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY: 061142

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 2

S.

Some of those assignments included the

following:

A.

The procurement of feminine coupanionship

during an official State visit

to this country durine the neriod

through

(See

attached

raw 1--takea Iron "Faully" Jevels" sonoran-

dum dated 16 May 1973)

5. Johany Roselli

The use of a momber of the Hafia in an

attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro,

initiated in August 1900. (See attached

Tab 2--taken from "Family Jewels" menoran-

dum dated 16 May 1973)

c. Cover

Various officers of the Clandestine Service

met with Mr. Maheu over the years from 1954

to 1970 to determine the feasibility of using

his fira for non-official cover purposes.

Actual cover uses were provided for one officer

in NT. Haheu's Nashington Office from September

1964 to June 1966, and another officer used the

COvAr Of Mahay Associatos representatives in

10

) from 1 August 1968 through

•I DECEmber 1970. (See attached Tab j--Director

of Security Memorandun to the Diroctor of Contral

Intelligence, dated 20 January 1971)

6. No contact has been made with Mt. Maheu since the

termination of the above cover arrangesent.

3 Atts

EYES ONLY

---

