# 104-10165-10030

## Page 1

104-10165-10030°

MORANON TORe parent dares of Invertsortson

SUBJECTE

Herald CORDILL

marrived in Copmhazen with bla laully June 29 Man toscou elalalag

tuvaluntary dotontion in tha touR fron Octobur 70, 1958, sebjeot

mtured the lisa via Csochoaloralla on Zebruery 27, 1958 as a tour

let but with the latention of establishing rostience and adopting

Soviet citiuship. subject olalned to ma given employnent as a

Dealgn hagines in a Kharkow fastory which moriactured nies fety

aquapmunt, but by the fall of 1958 he had bocone dialilusioned vi:»

Rhe Sortet vystem and bogen offerta to retura to the linitod states.

2.. Is an Interview with an offlour of the 1.5. sabasy la

Copenhagat, jubjoct intimatod that tl, bur has attamotod and sky

contine to attapo do re ble family or their activities to the

detriment of the United ¿tates.

Als sile clalnal to be istroagly

anti-joriat end statod that sha acoampantos ber hasband only to

preserve the fally mity, since subject van llehly parvous and

conoerned only vitt. lin laoodisto retura to the Saltod States, 1t

uns impostlui to steera a couplete on cobrent story. sabjoct

privataly arrangod for lla pasango to the laltod states.

Me faully vero con to aTive la iow lart the is Might sa 911,

Jel 3, 6855 A.M. His probablo dostloation la the inltod slatos

Brots, Now Jerk, es Abrabel MICIS. (odfa' a father), 306 Bo 11000,

ARENA

Jo The address of 2741 Valnes Avuman beara a Palophone 11st

Ing under the same of Ja00d CITRIAl, KInguild, 7-1517.

addresa 306 & Place 16 probably. Ne liebo Place unies bears a tolo

sha rocorde of thie offlos refloot that one Abraham MARSUE,

Bara 22 Fobrary 1889 la serojas, Illamala, aprilod for a U...

Via at the anerton ambuoy la hadoo Gity durtue the ronth of

241.225418

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do NOt Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Jamaary 1952.

hother laformatioa ma not arellablo tó poultively

Adentity this Individual sits Abrahan KARCIS, subjoot's father father las

The rooorde of this offlee revenl no Identifiable Informtten on any

•E the other Individunla nemed berels.

5.

Tuxs Aginey roguests that the remite of any twentigatler

ly your burea be made eullablo to ua.

"e would be pleased to gir

assistance nocessary, incinding joint pertiodpation la the de

artafing of subjoot in recino detaila an ila erperiences 1a the lice

and his contacte unilo abrond.

6. Purther inferation fortbocaine Pral Copenhagen vill do sado

vullable to your burean.

The Inforsation contadned heroin 16 kne to the Department

el state.

FOR THR DEPUTI DIPICTOR (FLASS) 8.

Saund i

JES AFCLETON

CSCI 3/755,608

sR/2/Rodsidn

Distributions

350b/15 July 1959

- RI

- CI/ISI

- CI/ReA

- CI/OFS/SOYSAT

1 - SR/CB/D/d1

- Chief, CI

SR/2 chrono

1415/1/2 dida

Anned or

721, (17-37306) 17 Jely 1959

---

