# 104-10112-10172

## Page 1

104-10112-101724

CONRICZNTEL

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

CROZIER, Ross I.

#112 569

23 October 1967

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. On 18 October 1967, Jerry Gabriel, DDS&I/OSP/SO, telephoned the writer

Insurgent. •

to state that he was employed by the Agency at the time he was travelling with

Guevera and had taken a number of pictures of the Cuban. Gabriel stated that

Crozier was still working for the Post Office Department as a Postal Inspector.

2. The file reflects that the Subject was a former contract employee of

the WH Division, whose association was covert, from beginning to end.

3. The writer telephoned Crozier (177-7556) and learned that the Subject

wished to write an article for the Samuel French Inc., an article which would

in all probability appear in numerous magazines in this country. According to

Crozier, James Reach, head of the Literary Department at Samuel French Inc.,

is aware of Crozier's association with the Agency and is of the opinion that

for the Subject to indicate in the article that he was with Guevera at the

behest of the Agency would make it very saleable.

Crozier was under cover of

in March 1958 when his knowledge of Guevera was obtained. The writer

informed the Subject that under no circumstances should he write any article

insogating himself with the Agency while under that cover. It was agreed

was plausible and accepted, and Crozier

admitted that a number of newspaper men and other persons with whom he came

into contact in the 1958 period had accepted the cover.

5. Crozier stated he would not connect the Agency with his activities

in the critical period in any article he might present. He was not requested

to submit the article to the Agency prior to publication as this is apparently

a character sketch and recitation of the

activities of Guevera during the

March 1958 period, not something of intelligence concerr. at this date so long

as no connection of this Agency is to be mentioned.

declassilleation:

---

## Page 2

OO87BZATAL

6. Crozier agreed to contact this Office in the future should any

further questions concerning writings or association with this Agency

come to mind.

minuter

"Laurence G. Parr

4. Paris

Chief, Employee Activity Branch

IGP:pac

---

