# 104-10163-10131

## Page 1

104-10163-10131

DISPATCH

•CASSANCÁDON

SECRET

PROCESSINO ACHION

MARCO FOR M000 :

Chief, KUSODA

NO COCAINE REQOURES

ONLY QUALINED DESA

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

CAN NOGE INDOUS

FROM

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

MELECT

EJDUST/LCFLUTTER/PBRUMEN

UFGA =

15 349/01

Transmittal of LCFLUTTER Results

Action: None Required

1.

forwarded herewith (RYBAT) for the following LIFLUTTER

reports with below list of IRD numbers and, if available, 201

numbers with cryptonyme:

IRD NUMBERS

66809

V66810

66811

66812

66824

66816

66817

66818

201 NUMBERS

CRYPT

( 251689}

(AMCLATTER/2)

(AMISLE/ 3)

(931777)

(AMBIG/ 3)

(308739)

{AMOT / 132)

(289939)

(AMSNAP / 4)

(291237}

(ANWOO/2)

Identities of the above reports are forwarded «u:*

soprate cever attachment.

END

OF DISPATCH

Attachmente:

Reports (RYBAT)

Identities (RYBAT)

Distribution:

2 - KUSCDA w/ati A/1-9 h/M; 8/1-9. u/8/e

10 - SAS N/O atta.

GOES REFINIS

RETURN TO CIA

Bediyour Use Only

Do el Reproduce

20125168}

Conu

DIPATCH AY! AND WAN

URGA-15548 1.

CLAMANICATION

APR 2 8 1564

0945

24 April 1964

Spareas,

Run, St g

NOS FILE ALAINER

576357 10

818

17317774

20123067391

401-

2899391

202-291237

...

---

## Page 2

14-00000

/

-OGA & 15349401

fictition!

' 66810

10 AprIl 1904

Subjeet: Iden A

Subjoot uns Interviewed and tanted on 16 April 1981 at a

malo site ln tho Miaml aros at the requent of Honry l.

REnTOLT. The Interview vas conduoted in knellet.

Subjeot has beon lavolved with kUlAt •inee 1959.

fer a

perled previous to that tire Sabjoct vas cooperatine with ODENVY

da Cabe.

le le ourrently boins med by ju as a source of intor

Van On the Cuban exilo commity.

The exone for testlay Subleet

was that ho van belns couldered ter araleles.

The notel parpose

of the intervier van to resolvo innuen raloed by JIVAVE KUDESK

which are dotalled In WAVE 3673, date 20 i abruary 1084.

RESULTS

Sebfoot has vorked only for NUNNU and ODENVY. He bas never

coopermted in any way with any intolligence servioe of any otber

He his autor boon arhad to cooperate vich any conomie

-controlled latolllence-sertoe.

He doen no: make satelligence

type reporta to any one other than ODYoNe.

Subjoot bme no

He Is not

am contaos with anyone whon ho suapoeto of bein a Cobo agent

He his nover then part in any consules setivity.

DETATIS

Subjeot insed that 1t 1n widoly snom anons She Cabos exile

The snot Cant this 15

amous in purely what emblos him so outain Incorsion valen 10 ol

subjeet stated that no soro than lour or five

Ameronmo Inor of bin LuVOlVonOuS WILI ALBARK. AnonE tarm 10

Ides B.

Suljeet man anted whether bo scemmated le my my with

To stated tant the enly

Individenl In tont ontorory uno a fermer Cuban CT wenter by the

mone of Iden C who presently worke for the Allianoe for Frogress.

1de C 1 so tillaved to to is loture, Subject sinter that hig

wife connionion with hor lanily In Cahs but subjoat statod that

be f0 poultive he does not diseure any of hia setiriedes 1a thess

Bangeet stated that hia vito 1n 191l% Mouledgenblo of blo

онееь va ased weter не ший any aereenen? ве вееретье

with any of the enslo organ sas.on..

He stuted thr% in the tornal

sene ?? the word he had no such arreccent but that he mn Ideolestelly

Bebfeet essted

BHAG POCUMENT ILE IN 201-985-09

13

COSM

l6 aposit

UFGH. 15349/01

daen' rading and

declandall alien

SELALI

201-251689.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

10349/01

66810

16 April 1964

Радо 3

that be has not had aay son?set with A'DIDDY/! since be van fold

to sover his conneotion in l'ebruary 1063.

He does, however,

oocasionally see HF.SA and BArMO.

Fros bla remarke it is quite

ourious thas subjoet ms a great deal o! ailootion and respoot tor

AMBIDDY/l. Subjeet atated that ho has done nothing recently to

CLIVOly sUpPOrT the AWUILD croup but that he would not benitate

to tell anyone,

18 thoy anod, that he felt AVOILD MIn northy of

all the nupport that tho Inquirer could give.

subjeet tated that ho also has a great doml of respiot sor

the 30ta of Hainaber Nerouent.

Ilm contaot with that group is

Idea Do

Subjoot hmn only incom Iden D for about tre nouthe and that

Ineldentally van the reason why Iden l''s muse does not appear on

tho 11nt ot suljoot's contacto siven to the station la 1064.

In a dlccusalon of wether or not Sabjeot AlsomIes ADDARK

businens with annuthorized persons, subject stated that he did

not bellove ho was priry to what night be conaldered alessariod

ANTOrINTION LOArINE ON LUTAIN BOtIVItIeS.

Be polated out tha:

his Incorntion ratherlas notiritsen nocenuitate a certain mount

• elve and taso voloh lavolva bringing Incormation to the

etsention of corenlo indivlands In order so obeok thalr reaction

lo that Intormilos. Smujoot han not made may deliberate erfore

to obtain Informatten corridor MAk astivition 18on his contreto

mons the Calan groupe we work for NUAlK.

Im the dineunion of Dinosaull potemilalition Subjoet «tatod

thnt Do and ence boen Sitianto with the wife of Ident.

Ile stated

that on far no he knon loon 5 18 nos aware of this, but that Idan E

nen fold him that he had corplled dereratory Infer tien recardime

Subjeet and sorried 18 10 lArK orrtetnlo.

Intjoot taled that he bon at lont the folloing intArter

Ident. Iden 0, Idenh, and Iden 1.

#aljoes orated that he micht recall othere 18 he haare tha

Subjeet deen not know the mune or 10006100

• 0! the KUBARK

Subjeot asated that so has always felt that suDARk ban e

He wlahed to rake it

vorg oloor that be vess not connider himell a Cuban but en the

contrary ensidera timelt as Anortoon.

Sanjeet aisiec tiat ho selt Chat KWARK une not utiliaira blm

to tho fallent ortont o! ala mbilitles. " le stated that he desiree

to becone a parmonont sinais asses end tant he would lli very auch

lo be atilisod, sitor the sprropriato erumind, lu the s sielo.

CS COPY

Jibiit!

---

## Page 4

I den A

Iden D

Idea C

Iden D

Iden 3

Idem T

Icen

SEUMET

# 66810

18 April 1964

IDETS

POB:

00 LAH TIT

7 March 1917, Havana, Cab

Angelo DUIE

Jenns ARTICAS

15349 / 01

Pedal nore?, 04

03

Lourd Band

Idea I

ART

IS COPY

dHown d.

Lacinded iron sutamarse

SOnAcradian sas

#oclassillcattan

TiF GA 15348/01

SECRE

568=251689

3/BR

---

