# 104-10169-10049

## Page 1

104-10169-10049

SECRET

FROM:

CASE OFTICER!

REPORTS OFFICER:

RELEASING OFFICER!

INTORMATION REPORT CVER SHEET

15-1 RePe

ARTOn C. LAGINESTRA ACR

NOTBA. CO BULSTRODENCA

Adrien B. MASLOTS M

DISTRIBUTION:

WOLIKE w/master

15-12

LCIPIT

DIDORIC RENT

SUP DATA!

Bubject:

Source!

Activities of David Grahan MeGanna (Duboia)

02

CORPHONE/1

Mote to Headguarters!

23

8 Fabruary 1968

FEB 13 1953

It 1a suggested chat thie report.

• be disseminaced in the unmorandur

format because of cho limited.

custoner luterest.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4/др.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

APPRURAL OF CONTO, l Contami by em inderaint to el casabia mona de Barbite Me De Armito eno

En Count bo adena

# Ca

S Aru

COUNCILE

Activitien of David Grahar McCanas

(Dubols)

RORY NO.

DATE CIF REPOII

MO. PAGES

ASHIENCES

23

OER-288

DATE OF

Early November 1967

PLACE &

DATE ACO, 22 December 1967

THE M UHENELIATEO M

3 0.

30006

A former Marxior lotellectual who contiauas to maintain close association

within radical and loftise circles.

Source's reporting has been generally

reliable in che parc. le obtained this infornation Eroi Ahmad Cora..

Ebrahle, an official of the Pan Afireeniut Congress (PAC), who talked

wich Subject in Calro 1a early November 1967.

1o David Graham McCanna (Duboia), son of Mrs. Shirley Graham Dubois,

in vorking 1a Calro frou the Norti American service of Radio Cairo

and for the Egyptian Carette,

These two jobe keep hin extremely

buny; however, he expressed som doube about the longevlty of his

Radia Calro Job.

He felt chat hin services there would end 1f the

station's broadcanting vare ruduced as part of President Nasir's

general scheme of relaxing canelone with the West.

Ahmed Cora Ebrahin sald that.MeCana.could not be desertbad: as

staunchly pro-Chinese in his policical sympathles, Anagnuch as both

be and his nother - who aiso resides in Calto • are strongly

metached to che lant Ceran goverancat.

Meno

---

## Page 3

I. USC Sech 19) and it the trum

COUNTRY

SUNJECT

•Activitles of David Graham McCanne

(Dubols)

emelation

SECRET/SO FOREIGN DISSEY

REPORINO CS

DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

Early November 1967

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. 22. December 1967

THIS I8 UNEVALUATED 1E

FIELD REPORT NO.

M. SOURCE GRADINES ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS PENTAYINE.

SOURCE

1.

David Grahan NeCanna (Dubols), son of Mrs: Shirley Graham Dubola,

in working in Cafro from the Norch American service of Radio Cairo

and for the Egyptian Gazette.

These to joba keep him extremely

bungs however, he expressed son doubt about the longevity of his

Radio Cairo job.

He felt that hin services there would end 1f the

•cation'e broadcasting were reduced an part of President Nasir'e

general scheme of relaxing tensions with the west.

2o Ahmed Gora Ebrahia said that McCann could not be deseriled as

ataunchly pro Chinese in his policical sympachies, inasmuch as both

he and his mother - who also reaides in Cairo - are scrongly

attached to the East German government.

THAT SEE T/NO PARTEY DISREA

7º%.

---

