# 104-10167-10084

## Page 1

104-10167-10084

2 2 SEP 1959

TO

Chief, Wy Division

03

ATTEN

Poon 1014, Earton 3a11

FROM

3 Deputy Director of Secrity (Investigations and Support).

SUBJECT & LETTER ADDRESS

# 206044

1. Reference is made to your nenorandum dated 31 Jely 1959

requesting the establisment of a post offica bos

in dashington,

D.G.

in the nane of Sier an 3. DESACi.

2. This will confirm advice frnished your office en

1 suzust

1959

that the requested address has been establisned

es follows:

Sherzan 2. BESICA

Post Office 50x 6621

T Street Station

Washia ton, D.C.

3. This address will be maintained for ayrotinately one year

and vill be servicea daily. Upon sceist of mail,

"Iss Faerpe, Extension

3229 vill de notifiedo:

18-2056

05

Lo lon-registered, first class and air nail, bearing the above

address as a return address, my be mailed by jou at any convenient

letter box in the area were this facility is established.

Begisterod

all and parcel post should be forwarded to this office cor secure i

l7y mail having special security simificance should be co

ordinated with this office prior to nailing.

rail bearing the above!

address as a return address should not be handled by the Central Mali

Roow.

5. It is requested that you acrise this office when the above !

address is no longer of use to you

ATy inquiries concerning thie

facility sbould be directed to the S3/3 Desk of this office, Hoom 1502

I Bullding, Extension 3933.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

7-3933. shu, Savere

x-327

L SEGMET E

RETURN TO CLA

Backgrourid Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2/5K

---

