# 104-10162-10193

## Page 1

104-10162-10193

laws

001 ER/DLD .

DATE •

11 DEC 59

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM &

HAVAMA

ACTION

"c/ 2 FAR.

INFO &

Cop, c/er)s/c a

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-P-E-T

FOLMNO

2

DEC 12 O410z 59

WH DIV. NOTIFIED 2350, 11 DEC 59)

PRIORITY

TO

DIR

INFO

IN 18502

CITE

6415

201-260485

HAVA 3023

A. DIR 05909 (OUT 72568)*

B. HAVA 3013 (IN 17994)

• 1, NEXT ATTEMPT EXFILTRATE ARTIME AND VARONA WILL BE MADE OVER WEEKEND

12-14 DECEMBER BY PAORE (PORTION GARGLED SEING SERVICED! VIA (PORTION CAROLED)

VIA HIS SPAN EMS CONTACTS, CHANNEL IS UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN USING BOAT OR

PLANE FROM MATANZAS AREA TO FLORIDA. WILL ADVISE ETA AND PORT OF CALL WICH

AVAILABLE.

2. NO OFFICIAL PUBLIC REACTION DISAPPEARANCE ARTIME BUT SEVERAL REPORTS

INDICATE CUBAN GOVT SEARCHING FOR HIM AND MAY BELIEVE HIM ALREADY OUTSIDE

COUNTRY.

3. STATION ATTENTING DEVELOP (PORTION GARBLED) EXFILTRATINS CAPABILITY

THROUGH AMPAN-! USING SUBU REF B.

WOULD APPRECIATE IMMEDIATE ACTION ON POA L

LATTER.

1. MIKHA-5448 LAST INFO STATION ON PROS PART 8 ANCOO, HUSBANO AND EMPLOYEE.

SUGGEST KARNLEY PHONE AMCOO FOR LATEST INFO, WILL POUCH PART 2'5 18 DECEMBER.

FILED: 1121502

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

*YOS ASKED WHAT WAS THE LATEST EXFILTRATION PLANS FOR ARTIME.

ALSO IF ANY REACTION HAD BEEN NOTED ON THE PART OF INRA OR OTHER CUBAN OFFICIALS

TO HIS MONTH OLD DISAPPEARANCE.

S•E-C-R-E-T

: + 71-867437

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capp Me

RETURN TO CIA

Beckaround Ues Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

