# 104-10273-10314

## Page 1

104-10273-10314}

TYKE

YEAR

NUMBER

DOC. NO.

Bi2 89 89.

0351

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle il appropriate) (30 CHARACTERS)

NEN DOCUMENT RECORD

1800870|

Instructions for Divisions and Scolls:

1. Fill in ond Sign on line 11.

2. Use bock of form for ony additional commenta.

DAY

3

MONTH YEAR

в 8, 0 в в

•FORM

LETTER

WOlATT

AIRGRAM

Scanties versin

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS)

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERSI

De/SecuRity ANalYSis GRoup Chier,

INHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERSI

"/ Jui76

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

HemMiNG, GeRMe PATRiCE

229

REVIEW

Determinations:

A.

Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARACTERSI| COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

SF#429

DAY

MONTH

YEAA

DATE

OF

86

REVIEW

2 MAR SA

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

_G. Release additional information

alastolme

SIGNATURE OF DO INS/FPLE REVIEWING OFFICEF

E.0. 12356

10

11

12

13

14

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

FOIA

8, 82 8O BA 8S B6 BIC

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Name

of CIA employee

2 10. File numbers

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

. 13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

Seroto

00643

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 11)

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVEI (40 CHARACTERS)

-P 3

SIGNd

REMARKS 1160 CHARACTERS:

H5CA Box 2 -# 7

(WILLIAM PAWLEY)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(j) (1)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(5) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (0) (5) (2)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

S

(LA)

OF DO COMPONENT REVIETING OFFICER

This Form ia Unelossiled Unless The Classification is Cherdo

ond the Inlomalian below es completed.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLONET

11 June 1976

MEMORANDEM FOR:

Chief,

Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT®

SF#429 229

SF#429

Gerald Patrick

Oa 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMING.

was referred to the writer,

who is holding the HENMING

contacted the writer,

11' advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from thel

(Station)

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

/was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HENING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

i was requested

to the belov-nentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report. .coming in from the

Station.

"provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

.;, dated & June 1976),

which is attached. In substance, the cable reflects that

circa & June 1976 a Guatemalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided thel

Station

a written report, and a detailed briefcording to the informa-

concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

tion the plot was to have been carried out on

15 September

1975; however,

of the major conspirators,

"Cokie" ZINERI

Safie left Guatemala

in August

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since Augüst 1975.

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two Americans,

brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HE MING. - The

assisted LINERI in acquiring arms, among other things, which.

vere flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with

police officials

in Niami and New Orleans.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063994

LAE SIFICATION REVIEW EO 1235

: ONDUCTED ON PAPRE

CL REVIEW BY -

0109294

O DECL D DOWNGR TO

REVW ON -

CADR

CITATION

1•3(0x14

# 00870

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NOT RELEASE

14970

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Lab::11

NOTE:

The

Station also included

Information the

Chief of Station had received

fron

i on 8 June.

said that he

had

seen providing information on ZINERI to the

Guatemalan government for the past six months or

50.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard service

in Mani.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans

as about six feet

four inches and weighing about

230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b.

In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

IS ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

Does ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

t121 treatment by U. S. authorities which

shipment to Guatemala?

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald

HENMING?

• On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

alleged employment, it

employment, am i physicent that perald BetTyet HEMING

is identical with the subject of. Office of Security

429 229, who has been described

as six-foot five,

pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

SEBNET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HENMING is well knoin to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JiwaVE.

numerous occasions since

at least the early 1960's

clained Agency affiliation when in fact there

has be??

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his

services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459) ,

• the late 1950's HEMNING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cäuse.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

• Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Connunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMING.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of •

a Guatemalen

government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENNING, you are referred to attachnents to instant

memorandun, to wie:

a memorandum by the writer

dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, JI.;

and an extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

MIchael CurfELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

In Anerica--The CIA and the Assassination of John r

is a diatribe against the Agency

and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY.

links attempted by the authors

is through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HENNING to Loan Eugene

HALL. Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HENNING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim'

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and

the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALl, but it i:

interesting that he did

so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING anc

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISCN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis

GrOup

Atts

SENNET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

(

DECRET.

11 June 1976

MEMORANDITI FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

:

SF4429 229

Gerald Patrick

SF#429

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section

for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HENING

i contacted the writer,

is the action officer for a cable from the

""advised that he

Station

reporting

an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatemala.

'was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick HENING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

i was requested to alert

and JMWAVE

to the element comes le to eprovide the writer with a

copy of the report. coming in from thel

"provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

which is attached.

.;, dated 8 June 1976),

Circa 8 June 1976

In substance, the cable reflects that

Guatenalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

Station

a written report,

and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

of an attack upon his,

ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI in the assassination plot

and ZINERI in turn was involved with two. Americans, brothers,

The report also

claims that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans..

E2

IMPDET

CL BY 063994

---

## Page 6

13-00000

NOTE: The

Station also included

information the Chief of Station had received

fIon

i on 8 June.

had

been providing information on ZINERI

Guatemalan

government for the past six months or

50.

claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI, one of them who runs a guard

in Miami.

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZIMERI still in the United States?

b.

In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

IS ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

DoeS ZINERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U.S. authorities which

permis him to carry tirearms,

as well

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e.

any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

• On 19 June 1976

that DDO is Ieferring

Department.

advised

the entire matter to the FBI and State

Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

alleged

employment,

ment, an is apparent that perald PathycEy AMENG

activity, and

is identical with the subject of Office of Security

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five,

pounds,

who is a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

companY florida.

TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

......

2

siт....

SEGRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

numerous occasions

the office of Security Miam least the early 1960'5 as boom

had clained Agency affiliation when in fact there

The nost recent incident wherein HEMMING clained such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF$355 459),

long-tine record of

FIan: FIORINg salsely claiming Agency affiliation.

of Watergate notoriety who also has a

In

• the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Marines,

joined Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American

accivities which he named the International

Anti-Concunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this

"Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HENMING.

For an appreciation of the

possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HEMMING, you are referred to attachnents to instant

memorandum, to wie:

a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT,

and an'extract fron a book

published in early 1976 written by

Michael CANFIELD and Alan J. WEBERMAN.

in Anerica--The CIA and the Assassination of John F

no do kennedy

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to. link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the najor

links attempted by the authors is through Everett Howard HUNT,

Jr. tó Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMMING to Loran Eugene

Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationvide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force was involved in the assassination of President MANEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with ClA.

GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in Hall Heard is

interesting that he did

so after Gerald Patrick

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISN's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis

Group

Atts

---

