# 104-10109-10162

## Page 1

104-10109-10162/

."

(

533022

SENDI

18 June 1969

MEMORANDUM F Qi: Special Agent in Charge

Miami Field Office

SUBJECT

: Field Office Memorandum of KI June 1969

Re: Charles GOVEA and Francisco

Wilfredo "Pancho"- VARONA (Alonso)-

" 1. I have nav read with care the referenced memorandum

which deals specificilly with charges by a former agent Wiliredo

"Pancho" VARONA gainst his handler known as "Frank" or.

Enrique. As you wil have perceived from reading VARONA's

file by the time you read this memorandum, Mr. VARONA is not

well regarded by ou: Station and/or the people who have handled

him to date.

This constitutes the reason for his termination.

would also like you: examine the field traces ou Mr. Charles

GOVEA, an attachrant to this memorandum. These traces

indicate that Mi. GIVEA has had in the past, and possibly still

may have, some coitact with Castro intelligence organizations.

We are presently witing for a more complete read-out on Mr.

GOVEA from the Ney York Office of the FBI. Understandably,

therefore, you can ice we look somewhat askance at the GOVEA/

VERONA information. Although we recognize the integrity of

the unwitting internediary Mr. Winston Guest of Palm Beach,

Florida, we also ruognize the implications for "Frank" in Mr.

GOVIA's knowledgs of our affairs given his possible Castro

intelligence connecion.

Axiomatically, we will be interested in

knowing, at some lont in the near future, whether "Frank's"

true identity is knovn by either VARONA or GOVEA.

2. I have ducussed this memorandum in detail with

"IF rank".

Our view on VARONA's allegations are presented

below, keyed to you: basic memorandum.

SEE ET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SERRET

-2-

a.

11 June 196::

i paragraph 4 of your memorandum of

03

Nr. VARONA was recruited sometime

during 1957 sy Mr.L

then assigned to

the Agency'! Station in Havana. He was subsequently

handled by ic.l

another Agency Officer

presently stioned in Kingston, Jamaica. Later, still

in Cuba, he vas handled by Mr. Frank Belsito now serving

in Panama zid Emilio Rodriguez (deceased.) Mr. Rodriguez

turned Mi. TARONA over to "Frank" in November 1960.

In August 19i1, Mr. VARONA took asylum in the Brazilian

Embassy in Javana. He was later granted "salvo conducto"

to Rio de Janeiro.

In the interim "Frank" was exfiltrated

from Cuba te the U.S. When Mr. VARONA arrived in the

Florida area during March 1962, he was met by his Havana

Case Officer "'Frank" who continued to handle him until

August 1962, at which time he was turned over to the Greek

Case Office:he refers to. The Greek Case Officer handled

him for appoximately three years. Along about 1965, the

Greek Case Officer turned Mr. VARONA over to MI. Al

McQuade ali Fred who handled Mr. VARONA until May

1968, at whith time he was turned over to "Pepe" intro-

duced by "Frank" who served as an intermediary because

of his previms connection with Mr. VARONA. Pepe's

specific job vas to give Mr. VARONA one last chance to

prove that h: could be productive before being terminated.

Pepe, an exurienced agent handler's problems with Mr.

VARONA wera precisely like those of his predecessors.

He found i: VARONA to be untruthful, bellicose and

generally unatisfactory for any form of continued employ-

ment by WE fiami. Therefore, after due consideration

of Mr. VAL"NA's potential to cause trouble because of

his long exprience with the Agency, the decision was

taken to termate him recognizing full well there might

be security percussions.

---

## Page 3

matr

- 3 -

In tis light of the foregoing, it is worrisome

to find out tlut Mr. VARONA is aware that "Frank"

recently recived transfer orders from the Organization.

We need more information on this. We suspect that the

origin of thie statement is the fact that Mr. VARONA

recently met "Frank"' on the street in Mexico City by

complete harpenstance. During that meeting "Frank"

alluded to th. fact that he was no longer working in

Miami (alth:ugh in fact he was) to confuse MI. VARONA

as to his tru whereabouts. It should be noted that Mr.

VARONA rears to "Frank" as "Frank" because at one

point during the time that he was being handled by

"Frank", otterwise known as Enrique, he instructed

Mr. VARON; to introduce him to the Vasco de CUNHA

family as 'Frank" Stevens, otherwise he had known

"Frank" unütr the name, Enrique.

The basis for Mr.

VARONA saying that he believed "Frank" mishandled

the WOFIRMprogram in many ways appears to be

vituperation plus frustration.

The vituperation being

a basic ingrrient in his opportunistic character.

b. Ie paragraph 5 of your memorandum of

11 June 196%:

That "Frank" had certain responsibilities

re Juanita Gistro is very true. "Frank" was funda-

mentally resonsible for the defection of Juanita Castro

although Mr. VARONA furnished the lead. The "Frank"/

Juanita Castes relationship is now quasi-legendary. He

did not fumic the very difficult handling of this contro-

versial pers:. Mr. VARONA would have been in no

position to laow the load placed upon "Frank" by the

Agency in tring to gain operational mileage from Miss

Castro. R: he information that 'Frank" was in posses-

sion of info:nation which could have resulted in the

assassinatin of Fidel Castro, the following comment

must be mall:: This refers to the Plan RAPHAEL which

ESKET

---

## Page 4

- 4 .

involved Mi. VARONA's brother. "Frank" was not

the Case Offier on this operation, although he had

originally re:ruited Mr. VARONA's brother in Cuba

prior to his filtration. The Case Officer for the

RAPHAEL aeration, if one considers that there was

a case office, would have been Stephen P. Mangello.

•Re Mr. VARONA's charge that five of his family went to

jail in Cuba ind four of his friends "went to the wall" in

Cuba becaus of the shortcomings of "Frank, " "Frank" has

the following specifically to say in rebuttal:

"VAIONA was continuously admonished from

the time of fis arrival in the U.S. in March 1962 to

be discreet soncerning his connection as well as his

relatives' cinnection with the Agency. It was common

knowledge ir the exile community that VARONA and

his family vere dedicating their lives to the overthrow

of Castro. No member of VARONA's family was

molested by Castro until the exfiltration of VARONA's

brother in 1764.

VARONA's brother left a wife and

two childrer behind and later within a period of three

months initüted divorce proceedings. VARONA's

brother anc probably his wife, and possibly other

members o: the family knew of Plan RAPHAEL. It

would be disicult, if well nigh impossible, to ascertain

who could lüve been the cause of the arrest of members

of VARON's family, since besides the family members,

other agens who were also involved in this Plan were

arrested at approximately the same time. Re the four

friends "wi went to the wall, " this appears to be sheer

embellishrunt on the part of Mr. VARONA. "

Ze paragraph 6 of your memorandum of

11 June 1811?:

Re, Mr. VARONA's statement that the Cuban

who holds ae highest position for the Agency in Miami

and who wicks directly for "Frank" is one Joaquin

-SANGENE this again is embellishment. MI.

has obviouly known for some years that Mr. SANGENIS

heads the MOT Organization.

---

## Page 5

- 5 -

Mr. VARON: is not informed on other Station

operations, : it is understandable that in his

attempt to bring attention to himself that he

would focus in those things he is aware of.

Mr. VARONt's opinion of Mi. SANGENIS and

his handling of money is his own opinion. The

Station's viev is that it is lamentable that Mi.

VARONA, oer the years, did not show the same

amount of pesonal dedication to getting the job

done that M=: SANGENIS has shown. Again, it

appears to i one more vituperative allegation

which has litle basis, based on information so far

provided by Mr. VARONA.

d. Te paragraph 7 of your memorandum of

11 June 1967

TARONA was in fact the messenger sent

by "Frank" o the person who was going to conduct

the exfiltration of "Frank" and several co-workers

in June 196! He did not, as he

suggests, have a

prime or omanizing role in this exfiltration which

was, in fac. handled by thel

family,

long time awets of the Havana Station.

. Whether he

was actuall involved in the exfiltration of Pedro.

DIAZ (Lanz and Manuel ARMIME is not known. It

is probable hat he was somewhere on the periphery

as was, true in "Frank's" case.

e. lu paragraph 8 of your memorandum of

11 June 19r":

"is true that M

VARONA is a good

friend of thy Vasco de CUNHA family. He got to

know this fantly when Vasco LAITAO vas Ambassador

to Cuba.

Tie Ambassador gave him asylum during the

BATISTA puriod, and this formed the basis of their

friendship. From time to time over the years, the

---

## Page 6

14-00000

- 6 -

Agency fouri it useful to use this friendship as a

means of coitrolling MI. VARONA when he became

unmanageaii:.

f. Le paragraphs 9 and 10 of your memorandum

of 11 June 1169:

V. know that Vir. VARONA has written

at least one irticle for VIDA LATINA.

We have no

informatior. however, to the effect that he is being

at all succesful in re-establishing and/or revitalizing

the old "Auntico" Party. Given his unfavorable

reputation ir. the Cuban community, it is unlikely that

he would enpy any success in this endeavor.

g-

'Fe paragraph ll of your memorandum of

11 June 196!

I should be noted that Mr. Osorto PAVILA,

presently ling in Miami, is the brothe & of a prominent

Communist i Cuba today and should be viewed in that

light.

"Fraik's" recollection of the situation involving

servants ani the ASPRU home, which he took over with

the servants does not jive with Mr. VARONA's report.

There were vo white and to black servants in the

house. The night of the Bay of Pigs invasion, the Cuban

Internal Serrice sent agents to the ASPRU home to pick

up "Frank.' One colored and one white servant were at

home at that time and they told the DSE agents that

"Frank" was "a gay blade" and would not be home until

early the ne:- morning. The DSE left the residence

leaving behinl a note for "Frank" to report to their

headquarter: the following morning. In this context,

it should be luted that "Frank's" cover in Cuba during

the period in question was that of a professional gambler;

a cover whic served him well during most of his service

there.

SESHIT

---

## Page 7

14-00000

cross

- 7-

h.

Ee paragraph 12 of your memorandum of

11 June 1963:

(2) "Frank" has no knowledge of the material

referred to. A further check will be made to determine

if this infornation was passed to "Pepe" who so uld have

made it available to the Station.

(a) This material apparently was passed to

"Pepe" and subsequently analyzed by the Station. DSE

personalities were carded. MI. VARONA's statement

that "Frank' did not properly utilize the information

again appears to be another vituperative attempt to

strike at "Frank" who he apparently blames for his

downfall wit: the Agency.

(s), (d), (e), (f). No Comment.

(E), (h), (i), (j). This is probably completely

fabricated material. Nevertheless because of its rather

sensational iature, the Station would be interested in

receiving true copies of this material so that it can be

analyzed in de light of specific, positive collection,

evidentiary zaterial at hand.

It would also be appreci-

ated if your eifice could glean the source or sources of

this allegedir sensational mate rial.

Rs: (k), (1), (m).

(x) No comment.

a Henri VIXAMAR is a Haitian exile living

most of his ane in Carada. There is no information

that Mr. VILLAR is a Communist.

(=) As in (g), (h), (i), (j) above, the Station

would like to know the source of the alleged photograph

which MI. VIRONA refers to. This again appears to

be sheer fahrication.

-=":

---

## Page 8

- 8-

(=) No comment. Nicolas GUILLEN is

a well-know= Mexican Commünist poet.

2. If you read the foregoing analysis in the light of Mr.

VARONA's file, I believe you will clearly ascertain that we

put little, if any, cinfidence in any statements made by Mr.

VARONA. We are deeply troubled, however, by the fact that

Mr. VARONA has wed one Mr. Charles GOVEA as his means

of getting to the eminent American citizen Mr. Winston Guest,

who in turn used his good offices to establish contact with you.

We consider it highly important to determine whether Mr. GOVEA

has any current corection with Cuban intelligence and to that

end, we have urgenty requested from the Bureau any and all

current information bearing on the matter. Although Mr.

VARONA cannot previde Cuban intelligence through Mr. GOVEA

anything really current, he could albeit unwittingly provide a

tremendous amount of information dealing with Agency modus

operandi which we vould not like them to have. This becomes

quite important in view of the fact that we have several indications

of aggressive DGI/LN operations to gain information on the AMOT

as well as our AMCRAFT operations.

3. Your paragraph 15 clearly reveals the fact that

VARONA has an ax: to grind and he has chosen this way of

reingratiating hims If with the Agency by passing information

on "Frank" the mar who handled him for the longest period of

time. For tactical folitical reasons you may deem it wise to

"receive his report under no circumstances, however, would

we want this to be wed as a bridge to become involved in again

with a man in whose integrity or objectivity we have no confidence

whatsoever. To reirate re the previous paragraph, we are most

concerned about GOTEA and if we can develop any current infor-

mation on Mi. GOVIA's contacts with Cuban intelligence, we

believe it will be neissary to get some word to Mr. Guest to

disengage himself f. m contact with this person.

. 1.4

CATE

---

## Page 9

-0.9-

4. This menorandum has not been completely researched.

It is suggested, howver, that you forward it with your memorandum

of 11 June 1969 to nir office so that this matter may be placed in

perspective:

I would preciate notification when you forward your

memorandum to you Headquarters as I would like to furnish a

copy simultaneousigalong with my analysis of the situation. I

appreciate your pronptness in bringing the VARONA/GOVEA

contact to my attention.

Anthony R. PONCHAY

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

Attachment: a/s

SESHET

---

