# 104-10186-10060

## Page 1

104-10186-10060

SINEORMATON EPORT INFORM ON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT "JORGE" (an alias)

DATE DISTR.

CS CI-316/00729-65

16 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

1

CS-311/00115-64

page 9

3 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE & WaShington,

D. C.

DATÉ ACQ. December.

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

INIS 1S UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the recoids of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees taice no action on any of

individuals mentioned in the personality reports sithout

first checking with this Agency.

in the Seccion

Intelligence - DG!).

has a thin butld.

Headquarters Comment

1.

records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

"JORGE."

5

4

3

2

2

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NAVY

lAIR

CINCSO # T&NS

INSA

Toce .

T FBI 2

(Note: "lald destribution Indisated by "#*)

INFORMATIO NAREPORT

INFORMATION RERORT

UFGA 19083(16Dec64)

Mi, SA. EQB

1WF/5/R

SH. S1.10B

WE

LELLLA

CI/REA

3

IE

LEX

I/WASH

LX 2356 ;[FGA19445

(14 Jan. 1965)

NO PROJECT (ABMUO/1)

Wil Stel

WEL WAYE

TOTALSWH/SA 8

CSCI -226 00222-65

OOOMDINATING HELLAG

(1),

WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

LIAISON #

ELS: LD:541

CI/R&A

PORS NO

---

