# 104-10179-10013

## Page 1

104-10179-10013

21 l'ov. Contact Repost,

para 6: 1040 Constitutio

Si to be the basis 1e

Ay's lucure root.

RAY

CONTACT REPOET

ST TILT:

Monting u1th Manual hay and Raul Chibes 10 the Latterlo

apartmait (30 west diü sese!, Yer York Mty! en 22

NoTeber, 1960.

FART COS OF TIRI

1. Notes thie nootlag had been called by no da ador to tplo

ment the decialons reached at Feastiartero concomins da. Maturo

raletionahipa adts the MAP. (See Memorandan For Tho Record dated 21

November 1950, DIR 12532, OUT S45E3,

and CHE/L/PAo secrandun to

C/MI, 9 Novenber, 19501 Also 100 MASH LiTi, IN 15816 mich otton that

Funt obtatred Varonala concurrence on 21 Novater to finanse the MAP Va

the FRI's omtraller.)

The meeting was started by ne toillre Ray til I had recoired a

acmehat gertiod mesange concentag a certain oparation in the lalo al

Pinos. Hon sarlous an indertablas tas this and mai, preciools, mo

Involved? (Comest, tile question mi posed parenant to inntruotion b

a follows

(a) there bre tuo carrison orationed at the I0lo of Piner

ulth man bie organisation has aroracl, lao parrison 10 commandod

decides to broat any fra castro.

Dot lon) which mre rasdy to asaint 1s artl-CAstro activitles- the

soond garrica ma lordled de the Punta Dal Bure and mo primarily

a const artillery Installacion. Ray did Dos revail the name of 180

ammanding offleer..

RETUAN TO CIA

23 Noteber 1960Backgroand Use Only

Do Nogreproduce

-ube de the comesder of the prison /wher

Liberato Katoo from pries.

(0) In candidering the astritson estlinal 1o (a) und lo! abore,

Manco! Rayla military plusiero fall chal ano angle operation abould

s9a:e co Ml; am ao colluro chat, 1l Hater Matoo oun

Do fiend 1111411468

k7.5" ty the a0s

cada:, 1o andoabradly loyal to

ana rs poolo chat ho lolo al Plaos ares mier

+91-259295

8/BR

---

## Page 2

consideration con snobably not do hold oy then for ey lecgee ro

ano unless curtala cogento el castro's als toros can be see

11a01 asther prior or daring the coo.

The NaPers are not so ma

concured aboat Castrolo greand fuse, according to say thee are

marah inad.

These roede, the MAPara Inal, can De enally en ongo

ou contralled by them, do mattero sou slard,

the general dosoort of

the operation would bo for

apprasimately 40 men und drive

bon perfered in the pant a number of linos 1o arder to get

01 mpp1100 Parl

oEarr1e0n,

Matos moald bo tread idth the

Tat that tino and aless mimilanacualy sta bi

scupy totloal end, perhase, aleo serategio locationa.

04,p44 vas that 59a paard that 21 terencer ma not da the iorgos daco

Tand la Taro due for scraties la the mary

Furthermore, use Mil planere thirt, a sander 1o the

boat day to mount such in operation.

3. After tro abore expoelison lay anted for to Solladog asalo

Lences

(a) Our support to and or advioo on hor to nostralino Castrolo

air force,

(0) Intelligence data cocering courtal mining nd als 11e2do,

(0) Dolley of mts-el craft artillery and cottoning so

Baguy lor anti-Gotle rebel alter the operatim ina begs, and

(a) Mapa preparod by the derial Sernoe Company as Milade poo,

Persoylvaria. (1)

Hi walleut neting any coolinto en the abore requent I anted

shether ai not say had propur ocuniontion facilities at lin diaponal and

another or not la people louldo mere able to rocalve, handle, nod sue any

eupplie unles sighe cono their my. I eino nated all sportiso typos of

marone the INP Flannere were bling of and what kint of amnition.

restrpio mild be sended for armi nou alrenty in tra bindo as ans-Cantro

Cubane 1n that area. 'Il bocano clear thal lay did not have the samura to

he "tochnleal lovel,

5o At thia polat of the conmention I logan vich 2o lepimentalio

of tho beatrunregro declalara roochod 1o repardo te the Enter grcapo:

mpport el cho liPo I onld that I mentod lo repeat comrado I bad unde

pant the Bender

I"ll the machinay, 1.00.

•Le bronto incidolicarlo Lensralloo,

818R

---

## Page 3

14-00000

endosbredit ln eul

Jane aleo the illitary asties to the YRDs

Uho Mo-prepara, entire lieute would accompay ouch arip

nestos plare ad pairo utilizad is mob in undertatios mare IRD 20s0%e

and identified as mal.

thanks 18 contrai those poloto 1, Bander, atonid at lenst realino thet

the polora to mero marang formerly for Cebana lis Lloss MaRily

belonger to the NEP. In any case ho, Ray, and the MU Muld moore tha

proposed urgant teemo 1t muld not impiy toat the nu la pallt

cally beholder to the Moj 1t muld staply todicate to the people 1na1ie

Dida ebat the MIP ma telling all resources to obtato the egulament

socessary to overcro castro. Muturully be me not eternatio abort

Chio fornia Dul to could liTe Ad Cope 1dth 1t.

•.? I faid say that I would have to get la tench will our 1111 tary

peoplo ln arder to find out unotber or not no nou had ranticient date on

haad or mich to baso a doclalan. (Comote Chill me bilaled tale

phoscally ty no on the torarone and on additional arpecto al thia

mottoe mich ae reported do part tuo of thie Contect Esport. Chan

1sd I falt tont me did not baro as jut mtricient data to mto any

(n) E1the 100 10p should cabalt a detalied pies shich o

mald oonalder and on the basta of uniah no muld then decide

mothar to be of anioranco er not ers

(D) The 10p coald go lt alco, and ant no fo rono ssalatonio

after cho operation has boan lanchel and me would make our

docialon tben on the beaso ol adoring alremtancos.

tact

04

8.

It thia polat el the sooting I falt that the tino ma ripo lo

make the $2500 payment (by Bender ebock) and to adulne Rey that norber

$°500 muld Do mado availablo to bin Mi. Jun. Pala, the VED ocaptroller, I

Repentod most I had nuld previoury about depilcation and forloved tha

approvnd Unes contalaad in uy 19 Horaber 1960 menored to Cd.

Ray?

and Chiban motions me not mespectads they ragucted tale partleular

anding proposal. (Coments for additional desatle and other lies covered

dertos the sorting see parta too and three, "Contact Roport, 22 November,

Honttng nith Bay and Cllboa."

OKLAD PHOLLER

02 1 83b

Diatr1bt1a1

Cт1 - c

1 = MA

114279

1-Chit A ChoWer (1e8t080)

2 - ND0P/A

218R.

---

