# 104-10226-10073

## Page 1

104-10226-10073

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 532176/20/17

129/1141317

DISPATCH

I ASSIRICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING

UNLI

ACTICA

TO

MARACO PEA INCARING

INPO

Deputy Chiof, WIL/SA

NO INTERINA BIQUINO

CALY QUALIPIRO

HLADOUAATIM PAS

CAR JUDGE INTAXINO

FROM

ARSTRACT

Chief of Station, JAMAVE

SUBJECT

МІСРОГИМ

TYPIC/Operational

ACTION ACQUIREO - REFERENCIS

ANSCROLL; Progress Report - July 64

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE

UFGA - 15852, 11 July 64

I. OPERATIONAL

As roflected in the nttached (separate cover) roport submitted

by the AMSCROLL Sccretary Genernl, there were two porsonnel changes

made during the month.

was to replace the commontator on

the early morning farm workers

radio program who died in May.

second was to bring

into full-time status a former part-timo employee

of the propaganda department.

Tho AMSCROLL report also details the contacts mide during

the month with other groups and individuals of significance,

contains an onclosure by AWBLEAK/], on correspondenco maintained with

officials of governments

and organizations of political eignificance

throughout the hemisphere.

Although these activitios are not of direct

operational valuo,

they are important to the ANSCROLL image, which

must bo improved .constantly if tho organization hopes to have a good

standing in exile and,

more Importantly, a future in Cuba. Other

enclosures in tho AuSCROLL Secretary Genoral's report, such as the

summarios of the activities of the Women's and Labor Department, etc.,

are in the same vein.

One item which should be noted is the Cuban

stamp connenorating the third anniversary of the "Victory of Giron,"

which shows tho U.S. eagle in a gun sight as it falls to its death.

Perhaps KUVOLF might conjure up an

appropriate reply to be used at

the correct psychological moment somotime in the future.

DOC FORWARDED H/O S/C

(Continued)

Attachment:

ANSCROLL Report and Enclosures,

USC

• Distribution:

3 - DC/WILSA w/atts., USC

11.19:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

19-120-26

OUTE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

18 Aug 64

AUG 2 0 1364

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA - 17335

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-120-26/3

---

## Page 2

104-10226-10073

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLAUSITICATION

SECT

T

UNSrATCH SYMAIN. AND NUNDER

UFGA - 17335

II. PRODUCTION:

1. Printed Propaganda

New matcrial published in July included Issues.

#36 and #37

o1 the ANSCROLL house organ (full summaries

of their content are

in the attachment), another miniature issue of the ANSCROlL monthly

news bulletin for Cuban distribution,

a small adition of last month'g

brochure on AMSCROLL publications (this one did not give prices, but

only doscried the material available for Cubans who might request

any they had not reccived), and the revision of a previous ANSCROLL

booklut on Castro-Communist. subversion in Latin America.

Thig last

was brought up-to-date and supplemented with a large number of

photos, mostly

clipped from Latin Amcrican newspapers,

Illustrating tho violence which has resulted from Cuba'g attempts

to export the rovolution.

Along with provous publications,

were distributed as follows (see AMSCROLL report for details and

exemplars) :

a.

To Cuba - 87,000 items in 29,000 envelopes.

b.

To Latin America - 26, 187 items.

Co.

To U.S. addressees - 22, 557

Items.

do

To Europe - 593

items.

• Total - 78,337 1tens.

4. Press Releases

During the past month AMSCROLl issued Y press releases among

which were the toxt of a letter sent to Chiefs ODACID and ODMARK on

"underground reports" (actually furnished by SYMPATIlIZERS) of a trade

deal by which a free world country was to supply technical equipment

of military value to Cuba.

Other matters noted in press releases

were free-world sea trade with Cuba,

the refueal of the British

ircraft Corporation to sell Jets to Cuba,

announcements of new

propaganda initintives,

etc.

A total of 2,150 copieg of these press

releases wore distributed.

S. Radio Propaganda

Brief summaries of the content of each broadcast of both

AMSCROLL programs are in the attached report.

Among the more

Important themes covered were

the OAS meeting in Washington and the

26 July celebrations in Havana.

III,, FINANCIAL

Salaries

Operational expenditures

Total

$ 3,825.00

9,695. 36

$13, 520.36

IV.

FUTURE PLANS

No basic changes are contemplated in the handling of this

activity.

Some of

specific propaganda undertakings being planned

for August are in the attached AMSCROLL

report.

53a

USE PREVIOUA EDITION.

ES Cray

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

19-120-26

PAGE NO.

CONTINURO

---

