# 104-10186-10303

## Page 1

104-10186-10303

."

INFORMATION REPORT

MINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

&PaC ONe TO And 794 the transminoR or perelation de matt I

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY,

Cuba.

SUBJECT

(Inu) CHAIN, psoudonym "Agusto"

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CI-3/781,989

36 June 1964 .

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACQ. May 1964

MAX TENAAO INORMANON, SOURE CALONO ARE GRAINE PORTAL O CONTENT IS TENANVE

SOURCE:

A former

Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service

until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following

report is one of a series

containing personalIty information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

4

3

2

{nu) CHAIN,

pseudonym "Agusto", resides in Cuba and is the

Deputy Chief of the Direccion General de Inteligencia

¡eneral Directorate of Intelligence) under Manuel PINEIRO.

HAIN works out of "N" Hendouarters and handles lars

expenditures for the DGI, approval of false passports for

travelers and matters concerning South America.

"inspector" is often used as a cover for travel of DGI and

Departmento de Seguridad del Estado (DSE - Department of

State Security) officers abroad

Suba CHech handles act matters i, 2,3,9,5,6 80 1s not in

Headquarters Comments.

Source was questioned concerning the possibility of (fnu,

CHAIN being identical with Carlos Sixto CHAIN Soler, but

source did not know the name or if "Agusto" was ever

assigned to the Cuban delegation to the Organization of

'American

States (OAS) in Washington, D.C.

The subjects

of the following name traces,

therefore,

be identical with (fnu) CHAIN, pseudonym

"Agusto", of

the above report,

2.

In a document dated 15 September 1958 & fairly reliable

source reported

the following information on a Carlos

CHAIN (Gustavo) :

STATE

DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nora, Piold distriburn Infiscad by "#",)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NAVY

1 AIR

CINCSO & INS

INSA

INADIY 1008

FBI 2

FINFORM

REPORI

WH/SA/EO5: 1! WE/5/R

KH/SA/MOS: 1: F&/MADR

WHI/SA/R

WH/SA/CI

WH/WAVE

il!

CILIA

CIR&A

RID/AN

ATIONTREPORI

LX - 1522

INO PROJECT

(AMMUG- 1)

SCI- 32781,989

DORINING ASCEANE!

Z1BR

---

## Page 2

NO FOREIEN DISSEX

113181949

On 30 August 1958 CHAIN, national coordinator of the

26th of July Revolutionary Movement and whose responsib

it was to effect unity among Cuban political

opposition groups, was arrested at the Santiago central

a soldier identified him 15 2 former

rebel; he was réturning. from a meeting with Raul CASTRO.

The Cuban army was unaware of cHAIN's connection with the

26th of July Movement.

b:

On il September. 1958, after prolonged interrogation by

military authorities,

CHAIN confessed he had been a

commander in the forces of Raul CASTRO, but did not

confess his connection with the rebel moverent.

of the 26th of July Moverent fetred CHAIN would be mut.

to death by the authoritles.

3.

4.

A usually reltable source in a report dated & January 1963 stated

that Carlos CHAIN Soler departed Cuba by alt for Mexico City on

22 February 1962.

During a debriefing of a Cuban source on 19 December 1962 the

Pollowing Information was provided on Carlos CHAIN Soler, First

secretary of the Cuban deleration to the Organization of

American

States (OAS) in Washington, D.C., until February 1962 when Cuba

was expelled from the OAS:

SAN, wom

who held the rank of captaln, was a security otticer

the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

He acted as

to Carlos LECHUGA Hevla, the head of the Cuban

delegation to the OAS.

One of his duties involved the

sending of nessages fro

the Delegation to Cuba.

Secretary to the Delegation,

was the code

clerk who received his orders for sending messeges from CHAIN.

b.

CHAIN sent coded messages by

teletype or by a machine at

the Delegation which transmitted messages directly to the

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

(MINREX) in Habana.

Both open

and coded messages were sent in this manner.

Messages were

also delayed through the Mackay radio system.

A rachine

at the Delegation relayed the message to the lackay radio

systen.

CHAIN often sent messages via the Nackay radio which

were not known

to LECHUGA.

ESCARRA told Source that the

code systems used for MINREX messages and for the Presidential

Palace wessages were quite different.

He said the Mackay

гad1о

system was a more secure system which the Soviets

assisted in

providing and had also given the

its uSe. CHAIN. used the name "Augusto" in signing messages.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 3

c.

€ .

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3-

C73741411

CHAIN was in con act with an Australian

(name unknown)

in lashington, D.C., whose friend was allegedly the head

of an anti-Castro organization.

On one occasion in

CHAIN gave Source $100.00 to give to the Australian to.

trarel to Coral Gables, Florida,

reporting on anti-Castro activities.

When the Australlan

returned to Washington, D.C., he gave Source a large

envelope which Source turned over to CHAIN.

turned over similar material to a contact in

the Cuban Enbassy..

HAl. worked Closely with Jose hOLtoN Carreras,

the Cuban

•delecte to the Inter American Defense Staff of the oAs

In Washington; D.C,

MOLEON was actively engaged in

sathering information and in buying publications concern

ing southern U.S. ports, U.S. Defense Department books,

Source was not sure if MOLEON worked under the

direction of CHAIN.

Source recalled that CHAIN often appeared as though he

were afraid of ESCARRA who was a

"Vieja Guardia" (Old

suard Corcunist

nember of the Party.

Source felt that CHAIN was not a

CHAIN graduated from high school in Santiago de Cuba,

and, although he entered the University there as an

engineering student, he did not complete his studies.

He worked in his father's grocery store in Palma

Soriano, Oriente Province and was a school teacher at

the Escuela de Cuadres Femeninos in Habana.

In 1957

he was in the Sierra Maestra mountains as a captain in

the Rebel Army.

In 1958 he was in the Isle of Pines

prison.

In early 1959 he was appointed "Coordinator

Provircial de Oriente."

In this position he maltreated

the people of Santiago de Cuba, and an appeal was made

direcily to Fidel CASTRO who made a trip to Santiago de

Cuba to personally investigate the trouble.

As a result

of CASTRO's visit, CHAIN

was transferred from Santiagp

de Cuba to a remote location in the eastern part of

Oriente Province.

The transfer was made only to appease

the populace of Santiago de Cuba and did not mean that

CHAIN

claims to be close friends with Fidel CASTRO and

Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ Rodriguez.

SECRET

'. NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

NO FOLLIGN DISSEM

CH8Ü1989

Source identified CHAIN as being

born about 1933 in

Palma Soriano,

Oriente Province. Cuba, being fire feet

five inches fall,

weighing about 144 - 130 pounds

saving dark ejes and black halr and a slin build. CHAIN

is married and has one child, a boy.

5. A usually reliable source in a report dated 5 June 1961 stated

that (fnu) CHAIN worked for the Department of Regional Politics

1ri the Foreign Office In 1962 and

also worked with Cuban

intelligence.

Prior to 1962 he atrended the Departarento de

Seguridad del Estado iDSE - Departnent of State

training course.

Source said that CHAIN was born about 1940.

6. A source with good access to travel information reported that one

Carlos CHAIN Soler.

carrying diploratic passport number D/64/355,

arrived in Mexico City on l June 1964 and was traveling as an

inspector of Embassies. On 13 June 1964 he left Mexico City for

SECRET

NO

FOREICN

DISSEM

---

