# 104-10268-10013

## Page 1

1104-70268-10013

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

2. Menora dubject inse Harvey OswALD.

dated 15 October

2. Note, undated, regarding contacts of ALFEREV.

3.

4.

5.

OSWALD with

Department.

Subject:

June COBB

25 November 1904:

FOIA No. 928-927

lemorandum for Deputy Assistant Secretary for Securit

1969; Subject

CSC1 3/779,814, dated 3U January 1964; Subject: Jack

.. RUBY - Lee Harvey OSWALD.

7.

PARI-1731 (IN 73050), 4 December 1963 [FOIA No.

298-6971

briefing at Allen DULLES" home on 4 March 1964.

dated 23 March 1964, regarding

[FOIA 618-793]

Memorandum of Conversation, dated 16 January 1964;

Subject:

sion.

CIA Work in Support of the Warren Commis-

[SX-11057 - FOIA No. 482-193]

CSCI-3/779,135 to FBI, dated 16 December 1963; Subject:

Peter DERYABIN's Comments on the Kennedy Assassination.

[FOIA No. 413-76A]

11.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 5 June 1964;

Subject:

Allegations Regarding Intelligence Training

School in Minsk, USSR. [FOIA No. 726-314

XAAZ-17620]

12.

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN

dated 31 March 1964;

Subject:

Reports on Activities and Travel of Lee Harvey

OSWALD and Marina Nikolevna OSWALD. [FOIA No. 627-821]

13. DIR-92725, 6 January 1964 [FOIA No. 456-771]

14.

Memorandum_ for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 6 March 1964;

Subejct:

Lee Harvey

15.

16.

Note from

Memorandum

HELL RUn buED& & March 1964

dated 20 February

Subject:

Documents Ávailablé in OSWALD's 201 File.

1964;

[FOIA No. 563-810]

Memorandum

Subject:

for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 23 July 1964;

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

[DDP 4-3769]

18.

19.

20.

CSCI -3/778,881 to FBI,

dated 27 November 1963;

Subject:

Lee H.

OSWALD/Soviet Activities

in

Mexico

City, 13 - 24 November 1963.

[FOIA No. 187-622]

DIR 85246, 26 November 1963 [FOIA No. 113-48]

MEXI-7045 (IN

67281), 24 November 1963 [FOIA No.

78-559]

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SEGRET

• 2.

REPRODUCTION

21.

Memorandum_ for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January

PROMIBITED

Subject:

Information Developed by CIA on the Activity

of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, L8 September

3 October 1963. [FOIA No. 509-803.

22.

Memorandum for DC/OPS, dated 23 May 1975; Subject:

eview of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWAL

Assassination.

23.

dated 15 May 1964;

Subject:

in

action of that Service

to the Assassination

of President Kennedy.

[XAAZ-36307 - FOIA No. 697-294]

Note dated 10 April 1964 listing material from P-8593

shown to Warren Commission.

[FOIA No. 653-828]

Brief for Presentation to President's Commission on

the Assassination of President Kennedy, 14 May 1964.

[XAAZ-27212 - FOIA No. 695- 302A]

26.

Memorandum for ROCCA, dated 12 May 1964. [XAAZ-22809

FOIA No. 689-298]

27.

Letter to E. Henry KNOCHE, dated 15 April 1975.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD

739-319]

Memorandum for Deputy Director for Plans,

dated 11

May 1964; Subject:

AMMUG/1 Information

on Lee Harvey

OSWALD.

[XAAZ-27213 - FOIA Np. 687-295]

Blind Memorandum, dated 5 May 1964; Subject: Debriefing

of AMMUG/1 - OSWALD Case.

Chronology of RGR Meetings with Members

Commission

of the Warren

[XAAZ- 27161]

Memorandum for the Record, dated 1 April 1975; Subject:

David W.

CONVErSE RODUCTION

BELIN, 1 April 1975.

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

Rocça Deposition PROMBIED

1 april25, men

Reend, R. Rosch

Chons a Rides pergetings i, Warren Comm

6 Jan64

1D1R.92125

24 Nolas

3051967281

5May 6yy debriefing AMMUSI

6

7

8

11 May 44., FOlA 687-225

19 Jun044, F01A 739 - 319

15 April 15, letter from Belin to Knocke

23 May 75, Rocca name enLito file

10

12 May 64, FOlA 689-298

14 May 64, FOrA 645 - 3034

12

13

10 Apriloy

014, 053-828

15 May at 5019697-294

z1 Feb

D1 A 559-243

15

27 Nav.63

PIR 85573

1 aprir64 , Coleman-Slawson nem

1:949

17.

15 Apri164, Coleman-Stusan nam

1 Juract, Helmsmen teRenkin

171

2=

3/5918 64, FOlA 509 - 803

24NOU 64, FolA 78 - 55%

26 NoV 63, FolA 113-48

3F:?

2740

2227 NOr 63, FOrA

187-627

23 1.

20 Feb 64, Fort

1563-810

4 March 6?

FOLA

590-252

2223

-4=27

25

6 Jan64

356-171

26

31 Marche

5xA 627-871

27

5 Jan

726-314

28

10 Dec63

- 3/334, 535

735 FoiA 413-764

79

16 Janot, ForA 482-193

30

23 Mark64, FolA 618 - 783

0001874

31

4DE163

F01$ 298-697

3u Sadley'

16541-3779377

REPRODUCI

1133-992

PROHIBITED

PAGE

1 0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

=156

36

737.

REPRODUCTION

2= Now 4 254-229

34-538

PROHIBITED

130ct 66

→memofore

11, Fereis to Lü, Sertt

Offiee sf Secrify S miy Rettiatoto

c1A pulggraph

Ugarte.

noe mwi. o .ne

-•*•

amm.. .......

iwirde cerie n

PROM0i

through.os

COC1875

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

2

_•= 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

5L03/A

PROHIBITE!

SECRET EYES ONLY

1 April 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversation with David W. BELIN, 1 April 1975

Q:

A:

as torting level of et-cong in Foune harren Come sion State?

It was a multiple levelec thing

(a) from the Commission and AWD

personally via McCone to Dick Helmsy (b) from Helms to the two or

three components primarily concerned ASE, then SB, Dave Murphy;

LA, then WH; anch ably In practice the substantive SB input worked

research components headed by Lee Wigren-Minsk

photo for example, et alo-passed via CI. CI had own defector input.

Q:

Q:

A:

Did you hear:

?? [two crypts, one sounded by "Jackenet" ?].

I had not.

Belin recalled that Castro had made a speech in which

he had charged assassination intent by emigres and had promised

retribution in kind if there was official support.

Had any thought been given to the assumption that an anti-Castro

assassination plot might have been underway, and fact it was known

to Helms and to Castro? [Mr. Belin said he now knew that Helms

was, in fact, aware of something underway regarding Castro.

had no evidence to show that I RGRA had been informed about 1t.J

Would that change any of the thinking re Oswald's Mexican trip and

contacts?

Yes, I said, though I intended to give move potential importance

to Oswald's KGB contacts, angere aten that

and others--though

recognizing the wisdom of the Warren Commission's handling--had

felt there had been port the vowet aspect that should have

been pursued:

a.

Fact that his two Sovtet consular contacts in Mexico City

had been identified as KGB and at least one (both ?) had been

traced organizat tonally to the 13th lenartnent (assassinations).

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 055431

SECRET EYES ONLY

COE18T6

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY NO.

, 08 212

---

## Page 6

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SUBJECT: Conversation with David W. BELIN, 1 April 1975

Q:

b. Our defector information strongly insists that all

Western military defectors--Like Oswald--were screened by the

13th Department.

c. Thinness of

file

turned over by Soviets in view of b.

I acknowledged in retrospect that Cuban hypothesis was worth recon-

sidering,

though it would appear that neriod of solid inter-service

(KGB-UG1) relations began later, (i.e. after 1967-68, Venceremos, etc.).

Why did Oswald's Ties include a denial to Dallas police that he har

made the Mexican trip unless there was something important to hide

about it?

All his other lies concerned key factual

elements of his

cover story.

Why also did Marina deny she knew

anything about the

Mexican trip in her first story to the FBI which

she later rectified

before the Warren Commission? Nr. Belin noted

that he had left the

hypothesis of Castro/Cuban involvement oper in his book.

He added

that it would have been important to have known the facts about the

anti-Castro plot at the time of the Warren Commission investigation.

He felt the least he would have done would have been to have insisted

on the polygraphing o Marina Oswald regarding her knowledge of

Oswald's Mexican trip.

Raymon! &

Rocca

Counter Intelligence Operations

2

SECRET EYES ONLY

• C061877

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

NO.

_ 0212

---

## Page 7

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

X*4Z-: 7168

Chronology of RGR Meetings wit

ACTION

vitrubers of the

Warten Commission

14 January 1964

12 March 1964

27 March 1964

26 May 1964

28 August 1964*

12 October 1964

RANKIN, WILLINS

RANKIN

WILLINS ETAL

(LIESLER)

"LIEBLAND"

re DeMohrenschild

"Commission"' (Stairson)

"Commission"' (Sea

?

Greeberg.

*Believe Mr. Rocca was at the Commission at least one other day

REPROS

This

i set fir

with eviceNs on

hanging tz.

241-289245

COL187S

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

5

_ 0s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

5 M: ISOL

Subject Ceneral:

Specific: OSMALD CASE

TSE SCURCE DES NOI RAVE DIMCIMDUNESSAOS ISE HARVEY OSMLIS O HI3 ACEIJITIES

SUT HAS DIE ZO FROVIDE IIIMS OF INTERESI BASON CH COMENTS CO CURAN TITOLITRONCO

OFFICELS ASIGNED TO THE DIRECCION SINGLE DE INCELEGENCIA, UP WHISY TIE SOURCE

HIGALT WAS A STAFF OFTICER- THE ITUNLION APPLARIS SEICH AS FURNISSED BY

THE SOUFCE AND IS KOYED TO QUESTIONS SUBHITTAD BY UNEST-

1, Prior to letales 1963, ISWALD visited ths Cuban

Enbassy in Kazioo

Citz of tin es tired occasions

Befors, during

"and after viese visita, OSMALI

vas in contact with the ILiCION GaCHiI DE ENTELICZNCIA (DOI), specilleally

w1ah luisa CaLDiRCi, Hanuel VIA Perez and Rogeldo 20DRICUSZ I0p9%-

VECA shone Cuban Intelligence pseudorym 1s MIRCOS 1s the current

Cuban IS chiel In iledeo. He racenily bas had a tour af duty in Habara, prior

to unich ho hold the sara poat ga for as Gucan IS chiai in ilarica.

RODPIGUEZ 1s a Cuben svitare aniter 1a sesico.

Intelligenca pseudanyu9,

Echi

ardo,

He has thrce lusar

settaro and jose datondo,

The prociso rolationshis

O liga CALDERON to the DAI 1s not clau

Sha spent about six months in Mexico fron which she retumed to buba early in

12640

COPERT: WI/SA/CI has the following raferences concerning Juisa

CALIBRON Carraleros She was assigred to the cormorcial office ci the Cuban

Entassy in Marico City, and she had arrived in lesdeo on 16 Jamary 1963 and

on 1], December 1963 made a reservation to raturn to Cuba on Cucana Airlisos

13 Lecember 1963 IN-d035, Hit 1153." She luft Hesdco City for

ayana on i5 Sacember 1963 using passport B/63/7 rusti 7123, 17 December 2963,

I-32692, Another referencs "MMA-2097), 25 March 1963, said thai kar date.of

arrival in jexico was 19 Jannary 1963 and that sha had replaced Fesario VazÇTEl,

a Modear secrstary In the connercial cifice. Other raferences apparanty con-

corning tua subjoct arg int! 0913 and 161. 3205 Il 56591 dated 25 january 1963

whien do not appear to add anything of interest to that siren above.

2.

'the sourca does not know whether or not. the Cuban Services used OSWAL

In a avens capacity or other nannero

3a A.

when news of the assiagination of President Kerrudy reached tre

baI, 1t causad nuch coment concerning tha fact OSWiND had buen in the Cuban

SEGNE

Esclated io d0is=at.

declassichie

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

6

COPY NO.

. of 212

---

## Page 9

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

In addition, ontara vara losued jos all haadquarterg and

Cials afficorg of

tha Dui to sort and packaga all documents according to unathar

Say vero liny socrato" (vory saurot),

"secratbi ecrot), and "irportante

Cro-ante

Ino material once packaged, was ig to hald panding furtior instrue-

In addition, all tatal by DUI, giricers and all di posches were sus-

pandod camporarilyo

3. then the news that

So was the assasola roached the lEI,

sas no imodiate corment but, then Fidel CAsIRO spoka on tolavision to dany

Cuban imoirenont, thera was considerable coment concering Willa's visit to

mid tice Cuban incassy la Modeo, At titis Sino VAlA, who has been tentioned provously,

was in Cuca ard cormented to a group of ICI stall of icers that (SAiD had come

to tha Cuban Embassy in Merico to raquest a visa but had been refused. VAGA sid

not jive any details and the subject vas not pursued.

to It is not knows inether information on OSwAlD's visit to the Cuban

Consulate in Mexico in Saptember 1903 sas ralayed to any Caban serrice,

5. It is not kaown 11 the Cuban Intelligence servicos had contact visi

the New Orlaans? Faiz Play for Cuba Corniütes.

The only Molina Who 1s rocallad 1s "The Hook", the Cuban wco was co-

victed In Now Iork City for the murder of a young girl cring a clash betreon

two Cuban groups.

The DoI stars officer sho lad been in thy United Nationa 1a

SANT INSTAZAN rarelad to Cuba with "Ihe Hoo's" and with another Cuban

individuals, The nares Pedro Charles and Peter bite no bean significanco.

The reaction of Soviet officials in contact with the tuban latelli

gence services is not knowa.

Nothing is know about Soviet proposals following me naws of Prasidem

Kemady's assassination.

3a The only fabrication koom 13 the special natter by Mdal CASIRO pre

Tiously rentioned,

10.

Nothing is know about jack RUNSItIN aka Jaci RUst.

Ice name Gilberso IOpsz 13 not lantliar out, 1i he viaited Dui head-

quartars, a photograph of hin possibly could be identified.

12.

DiNald's photo was seen in the narapayers tut nothing is krom acout

hin ottor than inat appeared in the press.

2

SEGRET

COC1FEO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

7

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 10

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

proposed Questicas of pirald Case

I.

Was Ise Harvey OSWAID kaon to the Cuban Intelligence services

before 23 November 1955% Ifso which service?

2..

Vere the Cuban services using leswArD in any agent capecity, or In

any other meaner, before 23 molenber 1903?

3.

What was the reaction of the Cuben intelligence services to news

of President Kennedy's assassination? To the news that OSWALD

was the assassin?

4.

Was Information on OStArD's visit to the Cuben Consulete In Vexico

City In September 1963, relayed to any Cuban service? If 50, what

action was taken?

5.

Was there any contact between the Cuban Intelligence services and

the New Orleans' Fair Play For Cuba Committee?

6. Has subject ever heard of Mario del ROSARIO MOling, 0r Pedro Charles

known also as "Peter"?

T. How did the Soviet offlcials in contact with the Cuben Intelligence

services react to news of the assassination?

8. Did the Soviets propose any type of actlos or investigation to the

Cuban Intelligence services following the news of President Kennedy's

assassination?

9. Was any provocative material deliberately fabricated by the Cuban

services or others and sent to the United States to confuse the

lavestigation of the OSWALD case?

Was Jeck HUaSUSWIN aka Jack RUBY known to the Cuban Inteiligence

services? If so, in what way?

11.

Does subject know a Gilberto LOPEZ who entered Mesico on November

23, 1903 at leuvo Laredo, Texes and four days later proceded to

Havana by special plane. He was 23 years old and carried a

U.S. passport. He also had a Mesican tourist permit. Develop

all information Jou can on this individual.

12. Attached is a photogrape ot OsiAl, and a letter from Herna

which is self explanatory for guidance of the case officer.

no circumstarces should the contests of the letter be made known

the suoject. Tais information came from the Secret Service and

SECRET

Cô1§81'

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

8

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 11

13-00000

ASSIFLED

:%.

al: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room mumber, and

building)

DDP

VERNAL

.E ONLY

COM

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DITENSION

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

¡TIAL

SECRET

7468

P-NO.

BXAAZ-27213

DATE

11 May 1964

RECEIVED

ĐANN

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number nach commens lo show from whom

to whom.

Drew o line across column after noch commeni.)

!!

Document Number 687-295

for FOlA Review on

. JUN 1976

12.

15.

FORM

3-82

610 USE PRONOUS

SECRET

[CONFIDENTIAL

201-289248

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

60C1822

UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PIGE

9

COPY

NO.

_ of 212

---

## Page 12

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

REPRODUCTION

PROMINE

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

• AMMUG/1 Information on

Lee Harvey OSWALD

DXAAZ-27213

11 May 1964

4 itti.

1. This memorandum ta for information and for action.

The proposed lines of action are Indicated in paragraph 4.

2. AMMUG/L, the Cuban Intelligence Service defector,

has produced information of literest to the Presidentis

Commission on the Assassinatioh of President Kennedy. CI

Staff learned of AMMUGN oa 30 April. A questionnaire was

submitted by the Staff on I May (Attachment A). Mi. Swenson,

who is handling the AMMUG/1 debriefing, provided a reply on

5 May (Attachment B). It was clear from Mr. Swenson's

summary that AMMUG/1 had information bearing on the

OSWALD relationship with the Cuban Embassy and Cuban

intelligence personnel in Mexico City, albiet his knowledge

was not that of a direct participant in matters affecting

OSWALD. A follow up questionnaire was submitted to

AMMUG/1 on 6 May (Attachment C). Mi. Swenson's reply

was dated 8 May (Attachment D). Attention is directed

particularly to the content of paragraph two of Attachment D.

3. We have the problem of reconciling the operational

exploitation of AMMUG/1 and satisfying the responsibilities

we have undertaken with Mr. Rankin. AMMUG/1 is such an

operational gold mine that Mi. Swenson wants; at a maximum,

two months to work fully. It is palpable, however, that we

must furnish to the Commission the substance of AMMUG/1'3

SEBRET

EYES OILY

Document Number

687-275

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

10

COFY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 13

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SIB0Z3

EYES 0NU7E

information on OSWALD before that. On the previous record of

our association with the Commisston, particularly with Mr. Rankin,

it seems possible for the Agency to workout an arrangement with

Mr. Rankin personally that would take care of their needs and our s

after a frank discussion of the equities.

4. It is recommended that the DDP in person or via a

designee, preferably the former, discuss the AMMUG/1

situation on a very restricted basis with Mr. Rankin at his

earliest convenience either at the Agency or at the Commission

headquarters. Until this takes place, it is not desirable to put

anything in writing.

Raymond G. Rocca

Chief, CI Research and Analysis

Attachments

cc: C/CI

C/WH/6 (without att)

C/WH/SA/CI (without att)

•12119

DIES CHLY

281-289245

CCC1884

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 11

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 14

13-00000

Pagamen

31 Das

30:23

A)

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLVE

ana by contoe

al ebono contecia?

SECRET

EVES OHIV

CCC1F85

PAGE

: 12

СОРУ

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 15

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

EYES ONKE

no betratania

ma did sot boon

Leagiad Ba

9 PH SiDe

1 ФР

Jafa ele

atten done

в zamanit

SECRET 12

EYES ONLY

CCC1886

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 13

COPY NO.

_ 0= 212

---

## Page 16

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGNET

EYES ONCK

07 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiet, Counter Intelligence Staff

Attention: Mr. Roca

SUBJECT General

Specific

REFERENCE

Debrieting of AMMUG-1

: The Oswald Case

: Blind Memorandum dated 05 May 1964 V

1. Reference is made to a telephone conversation yesterday

with Chief, CI Staff concerning this matter.

2 Because I am not aware of the information already

available to the Commission investigating the Oswald Case or

furnished by the Agency, my debriefing of the Source has been

based on the questions prepared by the CI Staff and on what the

Source answers have suggested. I shall be glad to pursue any

other topics suggested by Cl Staff.

3. The Following Information in addition to that in the

reference might beof interest:

a Luisa CALDERON, since she returned to Cuba,

has been paid a regular salary by the DCI even though she has

not performed any services. Her home is in the Vedado section

where the rents are high.

b. Source has known CALDERON for several years.

: Before going to Mexico, she worked in the Ministry of Exterior

Commerce in the department which was known as the #Empresa

Transimport". Her title was Secretary General of the Communist

Youth in the department named in the previous sentence.

Luisa CALDERON was transferred directly from hei

position in the Ministry of Exterlo» Commerce to a post in México,

a matter of surprize to the Source.

• Rogelio RODRIGUEZ LOJeZ (DGI pseudo MORCOS),

shortly before he left Cuba for Mexico on or about 16 April 1964,

saw CALDERON.

E:o 25U79150i

LETS

SEGRET EVES ONLY

201-288248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 14

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 17

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

4. As explained to CI Stalf any publicity which would

reveal the identity of the Source, his defection to KUBARk,

or the extent of his knowleage of DG ac Wides might

prejudice the operational use of the Source himself and of

information which he has provided. Accordingly, it might

be appropriate to point out to the Commission (as agreed

by DC/WH/SA) thaf KUBARis hopes, by using the Source,

to obtain access to D&I persognel including those mentioned

in paragraph 3 above.

Harold F. Swenson

Chief, WH/SA/CI

EYES ONLY

SECRET

201-289248

COCIRES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

15

COPY

NO.

_ 0 212

---

## Page 18

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Edications il

6. May 1964

Proposed Question

3 on Onwald Case

REFERENCE: Debriefing of MitG-1, dated & May 1964

1. The source says that palor to Oétober 1963, Oswald vialted the

Cuban Embassy in Maxled Cly on tro or three occasions Il

Is publie knowledge he was ta lecico during the perlod 926-6:

to 10-3-63.

A) When did source learn of these visits - before or after

the assassination? Please descrlbe la detall the circurastances

under which soures leated this information and identities of

the persons involved.

B) Dia those visita tase placo during the aforementioned

period or is the source referring to previous visits. If the

latter, try to get more spectile detalla regarding these trips

and the origis of the sources laformation

20

The source states?

at befare, during, and after these visits

Oswald was in contict with thy DGl, specifically Lulss

CALDERON, Manuel VEGA Peres and Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez.

This would appear to mean that one or more contacts were

made alter Oswald returned to the Unitad States le, between

10-3-63 and 11-22-63.

A) What does source mean by contact?

E) Can he break down these contacts by the speelfic ln-

alvidual named, place and type of contact, and date of

occurence?

C) Did Oswald know or have reason to suspect the Intelli

gence connections of these persons?

D) What was tha purposa of these contacis?

#it 3: 161912-27213

296 P30TE7I30 LITE

SECTST

201-281248

C001889

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

16

COPY

NO.

0: 212

---

## Page 19

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

E) It Oswald did not know

the intelligence affillations of

those ladividuals, what pretest,

"fanys were employed I

contacting him?

I) Did source ever see any documentary material on any

of these contacts, or any correspondence initiated by or

addressed to Oswald?

G) Did the DGI ever employ physical survelllances.

technical devices or camera equipment to cover these contacte.

I1) The source saya he does not kaow whether the Cuban

services uned Oawald in any agent capacity or otherwise.

This obvlously makes it more Important to check out what the

source maant in question one.

3. Did the DGI ever initlate an lavestigation of Oswald?

* What was the reason for packaging files at DGI headquartera

and fleld offices after news of the assasolnation was received?

5.

Sonice was asked whether any provocative matarial was

deliberately fabricated by the Cubana (Question 9) to confuse

the Investigation of Oswald. The raply attributed to him was,

"the only fabrication known is the special matter by Fidel

CASTRO previoualy mentioned. " Please clarify.

CCC18S0

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

17_02212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Oilines

EYES ONLY

08 May 1964

MEMORANDUS FOR: Cler Coerer Intelugence Statt

Attention Mr. Rocka

SUBJECT General

Specific

REFERENCE

:

Deurteting of ALAMuC-1

<The Oswald Case

A.

B.

Blind Memorandum dated 05 May 1964 v

Blind Memorandum dated 07 May 1964

C. Conversations between CI Staff and

C/WH/SA/CI

1. When the Oswald Case first was discussed with the Source the

specific questions prepared by CI. Staff were posed. The answers

given by the Source were reported in Reference A. That memorandum

which I dictated to a Cl Staff stenographer appears accurate except for

sentence #9 which should have said that the only possible "fabrication"

known by Source was the specific denial by Fidel CASTRO, on a

television program; of any Cuban knowledge of Oswald.

2. On 07 and 08 May 1964 I further discussed the Oswald Case •

with the Source in order to clarity exactly what he knew and what

he had heard. In the light of the explanation given by him, I believe

that a clearer understanding of what he knows can be reached if I

record his knowledge without using the question and answer format.

Accordingly, in the following paragraphs I shall report all the

Information given by the Source paraphrasing his explanations and

comments.

" I have no personal knowledge of Lee Harvey OSWALD of his

activities and I do not know that OSWALD was an agent of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI) or any other directorate

or department of the Cuban, Government.

I first heard of OSWALD after the assassination of President

Kennedy when news media carried the name of OSWALD.

Personnel in the Del first commented about the case, so far as

I can recall, one day after lunch when a group of officers, of

whom I was one, were chatting.. The officers present were about

ten including Roberto SANTIESTEBAN, Norberto HERNANDEZ

de Curbelo, Andres ARMONA, Pedro FARINAS Diaz and

EVES TV P4

itag::

205 2064097 II6

at 46X442-27213

201-289248

(C018S1

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PACE

18

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 21

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

L Dam ta B89

EYES OMIY

2

Manuel VEGA Perez.

Manuel VEGA Perez previously had

been assigned to Mexico in thé Cuban Consulate where he

was the principal intelligence atticer of the DGI. VEGA

mentioned that OSWALD had gone to the Cuban Coneulate

two or three times in cornection with a visa application

during the time that VEGA, w as in Mexico. I gathered,

although I do not know thát VEGA made any specific

statement to this effect, that VEGA personally had seen

OSWALD. I well could have reached this conclusion

because normally VEGA and his assistant in Mexico for

the DGI, Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez, would see persons

applying for a visa to go to Cuba.

This is because DGI

officers are charged with expediting the granting of visas

of agents of the DCI. Such agents on appearing at the

Consulate use a special phrase to indicate their relationship

with the DGl.

(I do not know the particular phrase used

in every case. I do know that agenta from El Salvador in

requesting visas always made mention of the name "Mauricio" )

The DGI officers ata Consulate interview visa applicants to

find out if they are agents. It the visa applicant does not use

one of the indicated phrases, the DGi officers instead of

granting the visa immediately, tell the applicant to return in

a few days.

The officer then notifies Habana and requests

authority for the visa. I cannot recall if VEGA even made the

statement that he had requested permission to issue a visa to

OSWALD, but I feel sure that he would have done so because

VEGA had said that OSWALD had returned several times and

this would be the usual procedure.

I believe that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez also would have

seen OSWALD because he worked

with VEGA and also would

have screened visa applicanta.

I thought that Luisa CALDERON bight have had contact with

OSWALD because I learned about I% March 1964, shortly before

I made a trip to Mexico. that shec had been involved with an

American in Mexico. The information to which I refer was told

to me by a DGi ca

officer naried Norberto HERNANDEZ de

Curbelo.

(I remer

or the conversation with HERNANDEZ

EYES OMLY

SECRET

G0C1802

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

19

COPY NO.

• 212.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES OY

3

because he gave me $40. Uu to, buy some shoes and

other items during my trip to Mexico.) I had

commented to HERNANDEZ that it seemed strange

that Luisa CALDERON, was receiving a salary from

the DGI although she apparently did not do any work

for the Service, CHERNANDEZ told me that hers was

a peculiar case and that he himself believed that she

bad been recruited in: Mexico by the Central Intelligence

Agency although Manuel PINEIRO, the Head of the DGI,

did not agree. As Krecall, HERNANDEZ had investigated

Luisa CALDERON. This was because, during the time

she was in Mexico, the DGI had intercepted a letter to

her by an American who signed his name as OWER (phonetic)

or something similar.

As you know, the pronunciation

of Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in Spanish so I am not

sure of how the name mentioned by HERNANDEZ should be

spelled.

It could have been "Howard" or something different.

As I understood the matter, the letter from the American

was a love letter but ifidicated that there was a clandestine-

professional relationship between the writer and Luisa

CALDERON. asgunderstood from HERNANDEZ that

alter the interception of thevetter she had been followed

and seen in the companior an American. I do not know if

this could have been OSWALD. I, myself, considered the

case of Luisa CALDERON unusual because I had known her

before she went to Mexico when she worked in the Ministry

of Exterior Commerce in the Empresa Transimport Department

where she was Secretary General of Communist Youth.

She

was transferred directly from that position to a post in Mexico

which seemed strange.

The only other person about whom you asked me in connection

with this, whom I recall, Is SylVia SRAN and I know very

little about her.

What happened was that I was in the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico on 23 March 964 about 130 in the alternoon

preparing to return to Habana the sameday. I was talking to

some other Cubans including Rogello RODRIGUEZ Lopez and

Ínu BUENAVENTURA of the Cuban Embassy; a courier named

"Enio", a courier named. "Tato",, and one other Cuban whom I

cannot recall.

wesaw a pretty girl standing at the end al

the reception rooms and someone asked who she was, and one

of the group said it was Sylvia DURAN

EVES 027

CEONET

CCC18S3

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

20

COPY

NO.

o 212

---

## Page 23

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

..3.

SHONET

EEZ ONLY

4

I recall that, after the news of the assassination of

President Kennedy reached the DG! orders were issued

for all offigs of the DC!, at Headquarters and in the field,

to sort and paciage all documents according to whether

they were "muy secreto" (very secret),

"secreto" (secret),

or "Importante" (impontant). The material, once packaged,

was to be held pending further instructiong. All travel by

DGI officers and all DGi pouches were suspended temporarily.

In addition,

I recall that DGI Headquarters personnel were

instructed either to remain in the DGI Headquarters offices

or to keep the DGI aware of their whereabouts so that they

could be reached immediately. I do not know the reason for

these measures but I believe it logical that they were issued

because of the possibility that the United State might take

some type of action against Cuba and the DGI offices. As

nearly as I can recall, we were able to unpackage DGI files

and use them normally about the 3rdóf December 1963.**

3. In brief, the Source does not claim to have any significant

information concerning the assassination of President Kennedy or

about the activities of OSWALDA If the paraphrased comments of

the Source are considered to nee further clarification, I suggest that

Mr. Rocca, who is most familiar with the details of the OSWALD

Case, talk to the Source. This can bearranged at any time. Mean-

while, I shall have a question asked in a forthcoming ICFLUTTER to

determine whether or not the Source seems to have concealed any

information on this matter.

Harold F. Swenson

Chier, WE/SA/CI

L?!!

201-285201

C0C1894

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

21

COPY NO.

0: 212

---

## Page 24

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, CI/R&A

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

DDP

2.

3.

Chief, CI/R&A

TERNAL

USE ONLY

U

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONTDENTIAL

EXTENSIGE

XAAZ- 2/166

DATE

80 June 1964

DATE

OFFICERS

RECEIVED /CORNARDED

INITIALS

19

COMMENTS

whom.

(Number each comment to show from whom

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

I think you will be

particularly interested in para-

graph 3 of Mi. Dooley's memo

of record,

attached.

Art went

over to wind upfloose end we

had with regard to the AMMUG

information we had previously

furnished.

Rock

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

i eid.

670 USE

EDITK.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

BY HAND

Document Number.

739-319

fos FOlA Review on.

JUN 1976

SAME AS

1193-953

201-289248

trimmission

anarch

...

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C1855

PAGE

22

- o 212

COFY

NO.

---

## Page 25

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

SOURCE EVALUATION:

The Source is believed to be very

• reliable. We have

established through independent evidence and cross-

checking that the major part at the) intelligence

information furnished by him is anquestionably

true. For example, we knew independent of this

Source tha Manuel VEGA;Perez and Rogelio

RODRIGUE D

in Mexico.

"g" Cuban intelligence officers

SECHET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOIVED

60 10 8 100. 00. 0. 2000000 -**

C001856

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

23

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 26

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-2.7166

19 June 1904;

'TO

Chiot, CI/18A

PICTION

•CURA MeNO de AMMUG

FHO1

SUBJ

The larvey cop BusIn

aNd WarrEN COHHISSION

with related documents.

(201-282,248)

1. On 15 lay 1964, ve provided the President's Commissiu.

with a summary of our debriefing of Cuban defector ALIG I who had

no personal knowledge of Oswald and no information linking him to

the Cuban intelligence services in any munner. AS a follOw-UPE

Mr. Howard P. Willins of the Commission asked if he could see

questions used in the interrogation.

2.

on 18 June, I took the questions and sourse's rusponsas

to the Commission and shoved them to.Mr. Willens.

He

studied them

and returned the questions to me with thy-observation thut they vere

very thorough and fully satisried his réquirements.

He said that he

sair no need to pursue this angle any turther.

The

questions and

ansvers exhibited

to Mr. Willenstare attached. At no tim: during

our contacts with

th: Conmission did ve disclose the sourse's Identity

al cryptonyn.

ili. Hilluns indicated that the Commission vos vinding

investigation.

He was highly complinentary

of CIA, jeferrind

profussion personnul hu encountarud hera and in Meteo

Mr. Willens asked that I convey his test regards to

you.

Ablachment:. a/s

Document Number 739-319

for FOlA Reviow ab' JUN 1976

SAME AS

Arthur 2. Dooley

193.953

•Drig

& 1. - C/CI/R3:A

CI/R&A/ALDooley

• CI/K&A/Chrono

CS:CORN

901289718

sall,.

SECHET

CHoUr 1

Excluced fram intural!:

Maz radiny and

declassilladols.

COCIAST

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

24

COPY

NO.

01212

---

## Page 27

13-00.000

SECHET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WARNI_ NOTICE

SENSITIVE SQUACES AND

METHOUS INVOLVEO

6 May 1964

Froposud questionaron Oswalu Case

1.

2.

public knovledge he vas in Mexico during the period 9-26-63 to

10-3-63.

then did source learn of these visits - before or arter

assassination? Please describegin detail the circumstanses

under which source loarned this information and identities of

the persons involved.

Did thise visits

coke place duxing the aforementioned

period or is the souree referring to previous visits.

If the

latter,

try to fit mone specific detatis regarding these trips

origin oftle gourcels information.

ile: sonica statug that before, during, end after these visits

was in sontact @ithüthe DGI, specifically Luisa

• CALDERON, Manuel VEGi Perez ana Rogello RODRIGUEL Lopez.

would appear to mean that one or more contacts vire made after

Oswali returned to the United

States 1.c., between 10-3-03 and

11-22-63.

A)

That does source mean by contact?

Can his birak duin

thuse

contacts

by the spocific

individual unned, place and type of contuct, and date of

occurrence?

=.

id Oswald Inow or have reaso

to suspect the

ntillizance connections or these persons'

D). That was the puipose of these contacts?

E) It Oswald did not know the intolligence

arfiliations

of these individuals, what pretexts, If any, were employed in

contacting him?

Did source ever see

any documentary material on any oi

these contaits, or any correspondence initiated by or addressed

to Oswald?

14784118

ES COPK

SECRET

WARNING MONICE

SENSITIVE SOUL:

AND

Man ill)

C0C1858

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

25

PAGE

COPY NO.

• 01 212

---

## Page 28

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECREI

WANING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOUNTES AND

METHODS INVOIVED

3.

4.

5.

G) Did the DGI ever employ physical survaillances,

technical divicus or camera equipment to covar these contacts?

says ha does not know whether the Cuban

survices used Dewald in anyagent capacity or otherwise.

obviously malis it more aportant to check out what the source

meant in question on.

Did the DGI our initiate an

Investigation ot

Osvald?

What was the reason

foi packaging files at DGI headquarters

and tiald offices after news of the assassination vas received?

Source was asked whother any provocative material tas

fabricated by the Cubans (Question 9) to confuse the investigation

of oswald. The reply attributed to him was,

"the only fabrication

known is the special matter by Fidel CASTRO previcusly mentioned."

Addendun 18 June with relegence to 15;

the only possible fabrication know by sourca vas the sp:cific

denial by Fidel CASTRO on a IV program of any Cuban knowledge

-2-

201

WARMING MINICE

SEN: :

1:1

284148

G6C18S3

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

26

NO.

0 212

---

## Page 29

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SENSITIVE SOUR: 2E AN

METHOLE INVOLVE

5 May 1964

Subject - General: Debriefing of Cuban Source

Specific:

Che source does not have dect knowledge of Lee Harvey OSWALI

or his activities but was able to provide items of interest based or

Cuban intelligence officers assigned to the Direccion General De

Inteligencia.

The information appearing below was furnished by

the source and is keyed to questions submitted.

Prior to October 1963, OSWALd visited the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City on two or three occasions. Before, during and alter

these visits, OSWALD was in contact with the Direccion General De

Inteligencia (DGI), specifically with kuisa CALDERON, Manuel

VEGA Perez and Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez.

VEGA whore Cuban Intelugence pseudonym is MARCOS

• is the current CubanIS chael Mexico. He recently has had a

tour of duty in Habana, prigr to which he held the same post as

now as Cuban IS chief in Mexico.

RODRIGUEZ is a Cuban IS staff officer in Mexico. He has

three Cuban intelligence pseudonyms, Eduardo, Casimiro and Jose

Antonio.

The precise relationship of Luisa CALDERON to the DGI is

not clear. She spent about six months in Mexico from which she

returned to Cuba early in 1964.

2. The source does not know whether or not the Cuban Services

used OSWALD in any agent capacity of other manner.

3. A. When news of the assassination of President Kennedy

reached the DGI, it caused much comment concerning the fact

OSWALD had been in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico. In addition,

orders were issued for all headquarters and field officers of the

DGI to sort and package all documents according to whether they

701 168

ES MORE:

WARNIG NOTICE

126 YAAT 21!!

SEGNE T

SENSE 12nC

litt

Gotr

0001SC0

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 27

COPY NO.

_ 01 212

---

## Page 30

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

indice

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

MEIHOLS IVOLVED

were "Muy secreto" (very secret), "secreto" (secret), and

"importante" (important). The material once packaged was to be

held pending further instructions. In addition, all travel by DGI

officers and all DGI poucheswere suspended temporarily.

B. When the news that

OSWALD was the assassin reached

the DGI, there was no immediate comment but, when Fidel CASTRO

spoke on television to deny Cuban involvement, there was considerable

comment concerning OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

At this time VEGA, who has been mentioned previously, was in Cuba

and commented to a group of DGI staff officers that OSWALD had come

to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico to request a visa but had been refused.

VEGA did not give any details and the subject was not pursued.

4. It is not known whether information on OSWALD's visit to

the Cuban Consulate in Mexico in September 1963 was relayed to any

Cuban service.

It is not known if the Cuban intelligence services had contact

with the New Orleans' Fair Play for Cuba Committee.

6. The only Molina who is recalled ig "The Hook", the Cuban who

was convicted in New York City for the murder of a young girl during

a clash between two Cuban groups. The DGI staff officer who had been

• in the United Nations in New York, SANTIESTABAN traveled to Cuba

with "The Hook" and with another Cuban named ORIHUELA and upon

arrival in Cuba tried to obtain employment for both individuals. The

names Pedro Charles and Peter have no known significance.

7. The reaction of Soviet officials in contact with the Cuban intelli-

gence services is not known.

8. Nothing is known about Soviet proposals following the news of

President Kennedy's assassination.

9. The only fabrication known is the special matter by Fidel

CASTRO previously mentioned.

10. Nothing is known about Jack RUBENSTEIN aka Jack RUBY•

11. The name Gilberto LOPEZ is not familiar but, if he visited

DGI headquarters, a photograph of him possibly could be identified.

OSWALD's photo was seen in the newspapers but nothing is

known about him other than what appeared in the press.

it sile

WARNIN

SWISHIV:

MEl.

184248

SEGRET

C0C19C1

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

28

COPY

NO.

. 02 212

---

## Page 31

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

V

KilliA, MOTICE

SENTINE iN DIE AND

1 MAY 1964

Proposed Questions on Oswald Case

1.

Was Lee Harvey OSWALD known to the Cuban intelligence services

before 23 November 19632 If so which service?

2. Were the Cubag ser

any other manner,

be

Busing OSWALD in any agent capacity, or in

è 23 November 1963?

3. What was the reaction of the Cuban intelligence services to news

of President Kennedy's assassination? To the news that OSWALD

was the assassin?

4. Was information on OSWALD's visit to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico

City in September 1963, relayed to any Cuban service? If so, what

action was taken?

5. Was there any contact between the Cuban intelligence services and

the New Orleans' Fair Play for Cuba Committee?

6. Has subject ever heard of Mario del ROSARIO Molina, or Pedro

Charles known also as "Peter"?

7. How did the Soviet,

ofticals in contact with the Cuban intelligence

services react to news of the assassination?

8. Did the Soviets propose

my type of action or investigation to the

Cuban intelligence services

following the news of President Kennedy's

assassination?

9. Was any

servi

provocative material deliberately fabricated by the Cuban

othe reland sent to the United States to confuse the

investi

Fi on

the OSWALD casc?

10. Was Jack RUBENSTEIN aka Jack RUBY known to the Cuban intelligence

services? If so, in what way?

Does subject know a Gilberto LOPEZ who entered Mexico on November

23, 1963 at Neuvo Laredo, Texas and four days later proceded to

Havana by special plane. He was 23 years old and carried a U.S.

passport. He also had a Mexican tourist permit. Develop all

information you can on this individual.

20l-184048

Is 0a

WARMING MOTICE

cadill! i

11lil1

C0019C2

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

29

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 32

13-00000

SEBEL I

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WAR

SO NOTICI

SENGITIVE SOURLES ANI

METHCOS MANUTS

12. Attached is a photograph of OSWALD, and a letter from Havana

which is self-explanatory for guidance of the case officer. Under

no circumstances should the contents of the letter be made known

201204295

WARNING NOTICE

SENATIVE SORELS AND

C0C1.903

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

30

08 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 33

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Enoculive Eaglsir:

75-1846

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Connor

C. Douglas Dillon

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkland

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

April 15, 1975

Mr.

E. Henky Knoche

the Director

Dear Mr. Knoche:

As you know, there have been allegations that the CIA was

involved in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro.

For the

purposes of this letter, we will assume that these allegations

are correct, and based upon this assumption I would like to

know the answers to the following questions:

1.

Did anyone with the CIA tell any member of the Warren

Commission or any lawyer serving on the Warren Commission

staff that such plans had been underway? If the answer is

yes, we would like to know what person or persons with the

Agency delivered said information,

when

it was delivered, what specifically was told or' said,

what documents there

are to support the answers to the fore-

joing questions, and what response,

-if

any,-was received from

the Warren Commissior.! If the Commission was not told about

this, why was it not told and who made the decision not to

deliver such information to the Warren Commission?

2.

There is evidence that Castro, prior to November 22, 1963,.

knew about the existenceof such plans and the possible

volvement of the U.S. Government.

Did the CIA at any time pizor

to the completion of the Warren Commission investigation have

any documents or other information indicating that Castro may

have knayn about, such plans?

It the answer is yes, would you

please furhish)us with copies of all such documents and details

of any such information.

3.

Several months prior to the assassination of President

0001.964

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

31 •212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 34

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

- 2-

to possible assassination attempts on his life and

retaliation.

possible

Would you please advise us if there is any

evidence that this Associated Press report may have appeared

in any newspapers in the Wiited States, including specifically

any newspapens in Dallas or New Orleans.

Would you also

advise us &flyou have any other information of public state-

ments of any Cuban. leader prior to November 22, 1963 indicating

any awareness of possible assassination plots on the lives of

4. Would you please advise us if there is any information in

CIA records to indicate that at any time prior to November 22,

1963 any foreign government or any foreign group was consider-

ing a possible assassination.of any American leader.

would you please advise us of all details and also advise us

who: in the United States Government outside the CIA was ad-.

vised of these plans or possibilities.

Prior to his death Lyndon Johnson supposedly stated that

he believed that although there was no doubt: that Oswald

killed Kennedy and Tippitt, nevertheless Oswald might have

been a part of a conspiracy in retaliation to possible United

States assassination attempts in Cuba.

Would you please advise

us of any information in

Agency files

showing

whether or not

there was any communication

to President Johnson of any possible

plans involving the

attempted

assassinations of any Cuban

leader and if the answer is yes, also give us all details

involving this matter.

Sincerely yours,

David W. Belin

Executive Director

C001965

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

32

PAGE

COPY NO.

0 212

---

## Page 35

13-00000,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22809

12 May 1964

1745

MEMORANDUMSFOR: Man Rocca

"Interval Mame Regarding Agancy's Position in Dealing

with

The DDP called me this afternoon, 12 May, to state

that the Directo» has received a telephone call from RANKIN

regarding the Commission's desire to interview him at 1030 AM,

Thursday. MI. HOOVER is scheduled to appear at 9:00 on that

morning.

2.

The DDP wishes to have from you a short but

comprehensive memorandum which highlights the basic issues or

positions entered into by the Agency in its dealings with the

Commission.

For example, RANKIN indicated that the Commission

would wish to hear the Dire ctor's views as to how improvements

might be made in protecting the President's life. Further, they

will probably ask questions regarding the possibilities: that a con-

spiracy existed.

Such general questioning certainly necessitates

that the DCI be made aware of the positions taken during previous

interviews.

I raised with Mr. HELMS the nature of the recent

information which you are processing which originated with the

• sensitive WH source.

I informed him that in your view this would

raise a number of new factors with the Commission, that it should

not go to the Commission prior to the Director's appearance unless

we have first had some preliminary reaction or made sure that the

Director is fully aware of its implications since it could well serve

as the basis for detailed questioning.

The DDP stated that he would

review this carefully and made a decision as to the question of timing.

3. Given the schedule, you will appreciate that the DDP

will need a paper covering the above points as soon as possible.

CS COPY

J.A.

Document Number.

684-298

for FO:A Review on

JUN 1976

251-229248

200-5-44

C001906

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

33

NO.

o1 212

---

## Page 36

13-00000

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

14 May 1964

Briet for Presentation to

President's Commisdon on the Assassination

esident Kennedy

plus

14 May 1964

Doeument Number 695-302 A

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

CS COPY

SECRET

201-254248

6001907

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

34

COPY NO.

0212

---

## Page 37

13-00000,

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE 21

Summary. Outline

This brief is concerned with five topica which, it 1s

anticipated, will arise if the course of the Director's appear -

ance before the P-lendent's Complicion. These are:

a. Formal and unqualified negation by the DCI

of any contact or association, direct or indirect,

between the Central Intelligence Agency and Lee

Harvey Oswald. This should be accompanied by

the tabling of an affidavit signed by the Director

and notarized. (TAB A)

b. A formal assurance by the Direster that all

information in the possession of the Agency regarding

Oswald's activitier and associations outside of the

United States has been made available to the

Commission through its staff, with which there has

been close and frequent contacts since the inception

of the Commission's activities. (TAB B)

c. An interim pronouncement by the DCI on the

problem

onsibility for Oswald's

0001968

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

35

PAGE

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 38

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEC 2T

activity. It is suggested that the DCI take the position

that at this timethere is no conclusive evidence of

conspiratanal sponsorship af Oswald; that all Agency

information bearing ou this problem has been furnished

to the Commission for evaluation and consideration in the

framework of its total knowledge of the facts. The Agency,

at the present time, is lacking any knowledge of recent

information or documentation furnished by the Soviet

Government to the Commission with respect to Oswald's

activity in the Soviet Union. (TAB C)

d. The DCI's suggestions for improving policy and

organization with respect to the personal security of

the President. Certain steps relating strictly to the

Agency's jurisdiction have already been suggested by

memorandum. It is proposed that the Director now

make specific suggestions involving legislation which

would treat information bearing on the personal security

of the President and, advisedly, other Federal officials

directly related to national security affairs in a manner

similar to what currently exists by statute for special

2

C0G1963

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

•PAGE

36

COPY

NO.

212

---

## Page 39

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEITAT

nuclear material or weapona introduced to the United

States or manufactured therein The Atomic Weapons

Oswald's activity.in Mexico and his possible

relationship to the Cuban Intelligence Service.

Substantive information of grave concern, to the

security of sources and methods have been developed

on both of these topics. The information and, in certain

instances, knowledge with respect to acquisition has

been made available on a highly restricted basis to

Mr. Rankin and to certain elements of his staff. It is

recommended that the DCl not respond on the record

to queries on these topics. He should suggest that all

such "technical questions" be worked out in detail through the

channels and procedures that have functioned very well

-- we believe - between the Commission and particular

CIA components. (TAB E)

3

C001910 •

• REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

•37 01212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 40

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPROTUSTION

C001^11

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

38

COPY

NO.

0 212

---

## Page 41

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

TAB A

Formal Disclaimer of any Relationship with Dee Harvey Oswald

There have been gumore and allegations which began

immediately after the assassiration which branded Oswald as a

U.S. Government agent., In many instances, CIA has been

named as his sponsor. The authorship, geographical dispersion

throughout the world, the identitycof themes and the timing lend

strong support to the conêuagon that these charges are elemgira

of a world-wide, So

fet-sponsored propaganda and misinformation

program.

As DCI, MI. McCore welcomes this appearance before

the Commission to make a categorical and unqualified denial of

these unprincipled distortions of the historical and personal

responsibilities for what was a dastardly and heinous act. In

witness of this, the DCI submits to the Commission an affidavit

which formalizes this statement. The affidavit is attached.

It is recommended that the DCI state concurrently with this

action that he desires to draw the Commission's attention to the

fact that the irresponsible charges that have been made, sponsored

6001^12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

39

COPY

NO.

•212

---

## Page 42

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEO

and replayed by Soviet bloc and Communi

ist individuals and

organs since the assascination of the President, recall the

methods and the pusposes of the broader campaign against

American intelligence and sécurity components which has built

up momentum over the past six years. We have traced the

sponsorship of that campaign directly to individuals and com-

ponents within the Soviet police state apparatus.

Their un-

scrupulous treatment of the Oswald case was neither new as a

method nor a surprise as an occurrence.

If the DCI is challenged by anyone on the Commission

about the substance or implication of his affidavit, it is recom-

mended that response be along the following lines:

CIA is a democratic institution. The DCI bas

incorporated in his affidavit the results of detailed

and painstaking examination.

Ifany qualification is

raised with respect to the affidavit, he willingly

undertakes the extraordinary step of releasing any

individual in CIA to appear before the Commission

and to testify with

pect to any knowledge bearing

on the Commission's task

2

333

COÇ1.913

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

40

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 43

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

ATENAVIT OF JOHN A. MCCONE

STATE OE" VIRCINIA-):

COUNTY OF FAIR AX

JOHN A. LiCCONE, being duly swort, deposes and saya that he is

tbe Director of Central intelligence, and that based on his personal.

knowledge of the affairs of the Ceatral Intelligeuce Agency and on detailed

Inquiries he caused to be made by the officers within the Central

Intelligence Agency who would have knowledge about any relatioaship Lee

Harvey Oswald may have had with that Agency, he cortllies that:

Lee Harvey Oswald was not an agent, employee, or

iaformant of the Ceatral Intelligence Agency:

the Agency never contacted him,. Intervlewed him,

talked with him, or received or solicited any reports or

information from sir, orcommunicatedwith him, directly

or indirectly, in any other manner;

the Agency never furflabed bim any funds or monay,

or compensated him, dreanor indirectly, in any fabion;

Lee Harvey Oswald was never associated or connected.

directly or indirectly, in any vay whatsoever with the Agency.

(I.S.)

JOHN A. MeCONE

Subscribed and sworn to this

day of

1964, before me, a Notary Public in and for the State of Virgisia, by the

said JOHN A. McCONE, who is pessonally known to me and he duly

acknowledged to me the execution of the foregoing instrument.

Notary Public

My commission espires

(Scal)

CCC1914

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-PAGE

COPY

O.

of

212

---

## Page 44

13÷00000

REEDE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COC1.15.

PAGE

42

COPY NO.

08 212

---

## Page 45

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE

TAB B

Dissemination of Information to the Go

ission

The DCI should

make the

general statement that CIA

has supplied all the information in its possession regarding

the activities, affiliations and associations of Oswald. Copies

of the reports and access to original data, in specific in-

stances, has been given to Commission representatives in

accordance with the DCI's expressed instruction from the

inception that the Agency place itself completely at the

Commission's disposition

8S0037

COC1516

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 43

COPY NO.

"o 212

---

## Page 46

13-00000:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPROSUCTION

PROMIBITED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

COCIC17

PAGE

: 44_ 09 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 47

13-00000-

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C. MET

TAB C

The Problem of Conspiracy

The DCI should note that fron

"start he had given

specific indications to Agency personnel working on the

Commieston a jer oka hate in or nation bearing on

Oswald's possible relationships with foreign sponsors be

made available to the Commission, The DCI may state that

he is gratified that his instructions have been carried out

diligently and promptly.

Among the items of information

provided the Commissioa haye been studies on the organi-

zation and functions 6f components of the Soviet police

state which are known to include individuals and wits

charged with the performance of what is euphemistically

referred to as "executive action" - but is, in fact, charged

with assassination and sabotage.

The DCI should state that no firm evidence has thus

far developed abroad linking known Soviet, Soviet bloc of

Cuban intelligence and assassination persongel or organi.

zations with the act committed by

Ossald in

Dallas on 22 November

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C1(18

PAGE 45 • 212

'COPY. ND.

---

## Page 48

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEOKES

on-the-record

It is recommended that the DCNhandle any

questions

from the Commission with respectito the apparently favorable

treatment afforded Osw

Ja the USSR, the withdrawal of his

rife, his gossible contact there with Soviet State Security (the

KGB), and related questions which would tend to establish

Oswald's associational link with Soviet intelligence as

"technical questions" and, therefore, beyond the scope of

present testimony. It is suggested that he rest on the fact that

the Commission has taken up these points item-by-item with

the technical levels of the Agency and that the ultimate findings

and evaluation can only be determined by the Commission.

2

0001913

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 46. 01212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 49

13-00000•

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCE

TON

PROMEIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001^ 23

PAGE

47 _ 08. 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 50

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

TAB D

Suggestions for Improving Policy and Organization Regarding

Presidential Security

Mr. Rankin raise

this question dire ctly by letter. In

its response, the Agency confined itself to elements relating

to its statutory mission. Specifically, it was suggested that:

a. The Secret Service, or Treasufy, record

with the Office of Central Referênce a formal requize-

ment for information relating to Presidential security.

It was suggested that, if the Secret Service

intended to expand its

Aptatigence coverage of possible

threats to the President's security, our experience

showed that it would need a specialized organizational

component to handle that task within the Secret Service

itself.

c. The CIA reply also noted that the Agency was

in direct touch with the Secret Service regarding the

possible utilization by that agency of our experience in

machine data processing. On the public record, it is

suggested that the DCI not repeat this detail.

00CI/21

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

48

COPY

NO.

212

of

---

## Page 51

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

In his presentation to the Commission after referring

to these earlier suggestions, the DCI should state that he desires

to take the opportunity

offere

Suggestion which he has not

tabled heretofore.

The Commission's major problem has been the assessment

of personal motive and the relationship of an individual act to

possible conspiratorial guidance. Because conspiracy is the

core of the problem, the DCI should point out the possibility of

legislative action which might be an assistance in preventing

recurrence of the national calamity it is investigating. There

is an analogy at close hand between the problem of developing in

advance information relating to Presidential security and the

problem faced by the country à few years ago regarding the

clandestine introduction or manufacture in the U.S. of special

nuclear material or atomic weapons. The remedy devised at that

time was embodied in the Atomic Weapons Reward Act of 15 July 1955

(29 Stat 365, PL. 165, 84th Congress). In essence, the Act estab-

lished a substantial reward ($500, 000) for information bearing on

the Act provided by any person, and in certain instances privileged

treatment for such persons - for example, asylum if they were

.2

0001922

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

49

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 52

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

foreigners, was assured Finally, a Reward Board was

created to administer the purposes of the Act.

The DCI should sugeft that the Commission consider a

recommendation for original legislative action designed to

induce individuals to furnish information bearing on Presidential

security by offering a substantial reward and preferential treatment.

The DCI should assure the Commission that he is convinced that

the substantial award, the special treatment, and the publicity

which would attend the implementing legislation in this matter

could represent a significant inducement even to staff officers

and personnel of secret associations and state security organs

abroad whose functions include assassination and sabotage. It

is these individuals who would be privy to plans of executive action.

The reward would constitute additional inducement for such

individuals to take the risk of making important disclosures.

The sussestion does not rest on the waterial elemente of

reward and special treatment. The DCI can assure the Com-

mission that we are aware that personnel in police state apparatuses

charged with the assassination and sabotage functions have repeatedly

expressed and, in many cases, acted upon their repugnance for

3

SENTET

C001. 23

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

50

NO.

212

---

## Page 53

13-00000-

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

such work and for the system which calls upon them to do it.

There are specific cases in the past ten years which document

this assertion. Trustedge

ysonnel charged with assassination

• missions have abandoned the mission even without the assurance

or the inducement which the DCI is here proposing.

In making this suggestion, the DCI may go one step further

in advising the Commission to suggest that the Commission

examine the advisability of legislation making it a Federal offense

to conspire and to kill the Chief Executive. 3) The DCI could also

indicate that the Commission might desire to suggest that any

legislation along these lines should be enlaiged to include con-

spiracy to kill any Federal official in the President's personal

circle of official associates directly concerned with national

security affairs. (The Agency's Legal Counsel states that

draft bills have been considered on the Hill.).

CCCIF24

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

51 0 212

COPY

ITO.

---

## Page 54

13-00000:.

INTET-AL SECURITY MANUAL

SENATE

levise

86th Congress

Doct

2nd Session

No. REPRODUCTION

pp 275-277

ATONIC TESTOSS RATATOS ACT

¡ Act of July 15, 1955 (CO Sint 305, PI. 105, Sith Cong.) -Itomic

PROHIBITED

Weapons lcwards Act of 1055:

«De it enacted by the Serais and House of Lepresentrures of

the United Sinteroi aneric in Congress osiembler, That this

•ionie Weapors Rewards Act of 1933.

"Sec. 2. Any person ka fauches original information no tha

Uniser Scates-

leading to theWinding

or other acquisition hy the

Cnited Siates

of any special

nuclear material

or atomic

weapon which has been introduced into tho

United

• Staies,

or which has been manufactured or acquired therein contrary

to the lass of the United States, or

"(D) with respect to an airempted introduction into the

United States or an attempied manufacture or nequisition

therein of any special nuclear material or atonic seapon,

contrary to the lass of the United States,

shall bo rewarded by the payment of an amount not to escced

$500,000.

"Src. 3. An Awards Board consisting of tho Secretary of tho

Crensury (tho shall be the Chairman), the Secretary of Defens

ho Attorney General, the Director of Central Intelligence, anc

of one member of the Atomic Energy Commission designated

by that Commission, shall determine

whether any

person "fur"

nishing information

to the United States is entitled to any

arrard and tho nmount thereof to be paid pursuant to section

In determining

whether any person furnishing informa-

tion to

tho

United

States

entitled to an aird

and

the

amount of such award, the Board shall tako into consid-

cration-

"(a) whether or not tho infornation is of the typo specified

in section 2, and

"(b) whether tho person furnishing tho information tras

an officer or employee of the United States and, if so, whether

the furnishing of such information was in the line of duty of

that person.

"Any resard of $50,000 or moro shall bo approved by the

President.

"Sec. 4. If tho information leading to an nward under section 3

is furnished by analien the secretary

of State, the Attorney

General, and the Dircctor of Central Intelligence, acting jointly,

may determine that the entry of such alien into the United Sentes

is in the public interest and, in that crent, such alien and the mem-

bers of his immediate familtimay reccire immigrant visas and

may bo admitted to the United States for permanent residence,

notritistanding the requirements of the Immigration and Na-

tionality Act.

"Sec. 5. Tho Board established under section 3 is authorized to

hold

such hearings and make, promulgate, issue, rescind, and

amend such rules and regulntions as may be necessary to carry out

the purposes of this Act.

"SEc. G. Any arards granted under section 3 of this Act shall

bo certified by thie Amards Board and, torcther with the approvnl

of tho P'resident in those cases where such approvni is required

transmitted to the Director of Central Intelligence for payment

out of funds approprinted or arminble for the administration ot

the Yationn] Security Act of 10÷7, as amended.

"Ssc.T. As used in this Act

The term "ntomic cherry" means all forms of energy re

Jenseel in the course of nuelear fission or nuclear transformation.

"(b) The term

intomie weapon' means any device utilizing

stomic energy, esclusire of the menns for transporting

or pro-

pelling the derice (where such means is a separable and divisible

part of tho derice), the principal purpose of

which is for uso as,

or for deselopmentof, a weapos, a weapon prototypo, or 1 reapon

test device.

"(e) T'ho term special nuclear material' means plutonium, or

uranium erriched in tho isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, or any

other marerial which is found to be special nuclear material pur-

suit to the provisions of the bronic Guergy det of 194r

"(d) The terin "Unired Stares,' when used' in a geogmphical

sense, inclides Puerio Rico, all Territories and possessions of the

United Sires and tie Canal Zone; escept that in section * chio

term "United States' when so lised shall have the meaning given

to it in tho Immigration and Nationality Act."

0C61: 25

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

52 0

NO.

---

## Page 55

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

(

REPRORUSTION

PROMIDITED

6C(1926

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

53

COPY ND.

os 212

---

## Page 56

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

TAB E

Mexican and Cuban Phases of Oswald's

Extensive lorraation haa been made available to the

Commission by CIA on the

Working level regarding Oswald's

activity in Mexico City in September and October 1963. The

Commission Staff has been in detailed communication and

conversation with the Agency working levels both in head

quarters and in Mexico City. Within the past week,

significant information has been developed by CIA regarding

the relationship with Oswald of certain Cuban intelligence

personnel in Mexico City and the reaction in Havana within

the Cuban Intelligence Service to the news of the assassination

of President Kennedy. The Commission Staff is in the course

of being briefed on the Cuban aspect.

It is suggested that the DCI handle any question on the

Mexican and Cuban phases of Oswald's activi

ty as "technical

questions" which members of the Commission can develop

from or throug their own staff with the appropriate component

of the Agency. This

ad be entirely consistent with the DCI's

overall assurance that he has Bar

ructed his personnel to place

their information completely at the Commission's disposition.

COCIS 27

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

54

COPY

NO.

05 212

---

## Page 57

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

10 April 1964

O MATERIAL FROM P 8593 DO WARREN COMMISSION:

1.

English translations of calls made by OSWALD to Russian Embassy:

27 Sep 63 (1037); 27 SepT63((626); 27 Sepj6ia (1605); 28 Sep 63 (1151);

1 Oct 63 (1031) 1 Oct 63 8 3 06(34

2. Englieh translation of conversation between President Dorticos in

Havana and Cuban Amb Joaquin Hernandez Armas in Mexico on 26 Nov 63.

3. English translation of conversation between Cuban Am to Mexico and

President Dorticos in Havana on 26 Nov 63.

Document Numb 653-828

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

34

file: 1-8593

MATEL FESSRAN

RECT C

125:: 602 Fл48:

• 158 P: 17.000)

PaST 2807. Cel

A da BiR (10)

Rog (2)

RECORD COPY

7x-1892

201-289248

10 APR. 64

08C1: 28

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

55

NO.

0s 212

---

## Page 58

13-0,0000

REPRODUCTION

PROHUBITED

• ?

...

(

XHHZ-36307

15 MAY 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI. I. IDe Bantis

Genral-Counsel

Prealdent'a Commission on tha

Wannation al Prosident Jonady

SUBJICT:

Role Githa, Cuban Intelligence Sorries

la Procestisg Visa Applicants; Raaclion

of that Servica to tha Assassination ai

Presidiat Kanaway

Within the vory recest period, this Ageacy has ascablimed

coataes with a veil placad individual wao bay been in clous and

prolonged contact with ranking oilicars a the Caban Direccion

General de lstelligencia (Directorate Geeral of intelligesee - DGl).

His kaowledge ol Dal activities, techniques and personallties la

direct and preíound. Thla Agency has querled him in durail se

possible contadts between Les Harvey CSH ALD and the DGI prior.:

to the aaminaination of Prosident Kennady.: Areport on the Irior-

mation thus obtained ls attached so thia memorandom.

2o This source lo highly sensitiv, and of great, Iramedlate

operational signifcanca to thia Agency. The sational counteriatelli

genes interost abroad roguires, tarsiory, thas secesa to the atiached

seport, as knowledge di the aristenes oi this source do rsaricted,

¿or the present as leaat, to yoursell and 3 minimum zumbor de your

staff.

Document humber 14697-294

Star FOlA Roviet on

JUN 1975

SECRET

Dy ungraded t 365-248

date

P'TOSER 1925

190998

200 207777979.

201-789248

6061:23

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

56

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 59

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

!

927937

(

3. in appropriate sonisivisy indicator

one allited 20

this memorandu and ihe stached report.

A copy of this memorandu with lts ssacinest his been

forwarded to the Federal Bureau of investigatioo.

(Signer) Retard leis

Blchar Hem

Deputy Dirscior for Plans

Distribation:

Orig. & 2 - Addres

2 - DDE

2

• C/CI/ R&A

• C/WH/3

I. - CI/R&A/ 20N

. = C/CI.

Originated By:

GI/ngON/Hail: 3h

13 May 1964

-3-

Dow graded to

SECRET

by suirity 2iT OCTOBER 15>5

date.

5:365910

WANG NOTICE

SOURCES ANS

- 1009993979

COC1:00

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

57

COPY

NO.

• 0f 212

---

## Page 60

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

REPRODNET

MON

PROMENED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CCC1?31

PAGE

58

COPY NO.

. o: 212

---

## Page 61

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

BUAIEST: LAN HArVEY OSTAID

To sourco bas no personal lino

s= bis activities and doss act ison.

Di a Direccien Crasral do inteligengh (051) as aoy otber direc

ñs fast in lareS Data, the attentination al President

Anst commentad about the taso in bie yousance one day ador braco,

when a grap d difcury wa citing. Among thems vas lamal

VEGA, Ferna win provionaly bed been aadigned to tha cubas

Consulato la blarico City, warra ia vas ina protipal DOS bitleer.

VErA mentisand that OSTALS bad Joso ta sla Cubes Condidato

two or kires tizaon in conducäon with a visa applicates during

Whether OSWALD bad any conise with VEGÀ on there occasiona

13 201 brows to the soures. Livery DOl ofteurs sailcon In

consolatos cartonarily afarion tira applicata to determine is

they ere DOI agesto, Il appliests and ientiflad aa agests, their

travel in apedited. Otherwina, tasy are anually told to come bact

1a a 10% daya, During tha intario supicasts sames ars rubnitiod

so Farna for further ehvelry and inctions. Accoming 3o tre

FOrCE, OSHALD may bary hera barulented bY VOGA oN 34e

ansistant, Rogole 30DRIGUSz Lopes, but thin ta strictly con-

jortars pa lia past. The source does sit iron Sivia DURANt o

wrything perduent about baz excess that abo ass predent la the

Cuban Erabassy la lexico ta jiasch 1951.

Her the sus al th alasstion a Prorident lened

escand ibe ICt, aners toro issned for all Dus cosspoperts i

tho country to sort zul pactaga all documenta secoring to whochor

they wars "nay secreted frazy secaut), "30675001 (50470t), 07

SECRET

Downgraded i * 365:9+2

daig

2632917395 1

C0C1.32

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

59

- 01. 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 62

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SDOMET

"importanta" (irapo

To nutatial, aco consolated, as

mastuctions. All travel sy sal oftears

wily, Daddies, ICI Headguarters' personal

The source done not 1

฿ logies thns they man bused bernano si tha possilality that sta

Cadter State mightin

→ tara sume typa all settes againat Guba

sastont to regular dure abort 3 Describer 1963.

Downgraded 1 SECRET

+ 355.249

933737

$21..

IS NOTICE

: SOURCES AND

125 NO.2

COC1-35

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

60

NO.

of

212

-===

---

## Page 63

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

23 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: • DC/OPS

SUBJECT

Review of Selected Items in the

Lee Harvey OSWALD File

Regarding

Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban

Involvement in the

John F. KENNEDY Assassination

The attached

eview and summary was written at

the express reguest of Mr. David W. Balin as a follow

up to Question 3 of his letter to the Agency of

15 April 1975.

The resultg - as I have already told him - add

nuance, not evidence, to what the Warren Commission and

its staff had laid before them in 1964 on this subject.

The results of the review are stipulated in paragraph 8

of the Attachment.

attach copies of the case reports from the file to this.

Summary•

These can be made available promptly, however.

on request.

This sunmary does not deal with press,

magazine and books that dealt with the subject during

the period after the assassination..

My recommendation is to do with this paper as

we did with the earlier one reguested by Mr.. Balin on

the unidentified man: let him read the entire summary

and then decide how much of it

if any, is pertinent

SECRET

Y IMPDET EL BY 055431

CCC1:34

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 61 _ 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 64

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

• :

SECRET

to his and the commission's needs and

then decide hos

much will go into the classified racord.

(ci:

PROMBIN

Raymond Go

attachment

SECRET".

C0C1^35

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 62

COPY NO.

---

## Page 65

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S E

CRET

SUBJECT : Review of Selected Items in the

ee Harvey OSWALD File-Regarding Allega-

tions of CASTRO. Cuban Inyolvement in the

John F. KENNEDY Assassipation

REFERENCE: Letter by David W. Belin to

Mr. E. Henry Knoche, 15 April 1975,

paragraph 3

Begarding Public Statement

by CASTRO,

etcey, attached

BACKGROUND

1. On Saturday evening, 7 September 1963,

Fidel CASTRO appeared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in

Havana; even more unusual, CASTRO submitted to an informal

interview by the Associated Press correspondent,

Daniel HARKER.

2. HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday,

8 September, and was in print throughout the country on

Monday, 9 September. There can be no question from the

facts surrounding the CASTRO appearance, which had not been

expected, and his agreement

to the interview, that this

event represented a more-than-ordinary attempt to get a

message on the record in the United States.

SE C.RE T

C0C1936

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 63

COPY

NO.

08212

---

## Page 66

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRE.

3. CASTRO's statements to HARKER

covered a range of

topics but dealt principally with American political

leadership, in particular President KENNEDY, whom he ex-

coriated in extraordinazl

provocative fastion

(" ... KENNEDY is a cretih-

→"... the BATISTA of his

times ... the most opportunistic American President of

all time ...").

4. The interview also contained an uncomplimentary

reference to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing

the limited nuclear test ban. There were differences in

the replay by United States newspapers like the

New York Times and Washington papers, with

a result that

CASTRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

5. In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided

until the middle of September 1963, the HARKER story

appeared in the principal morning papers the Times-Picayune,

on Monday, 9 September page 7, under a three-column head-

line: "CASTRO Blasts Raids on Cuba. Says U.S. Leaders

Imperiled by Aid to Rebels." The story followed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) - Prime Minister

Fidel Castro said Saturday night: 'U.S.

leaders would be in danger if they helped

in any attempt to do away with leaders of

Cuba.'

2

SECRET

0001^37

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

64

PAGE

COPY NO.

.. of

212

---

## Page 67

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"Bitterly denoancing what he called

recent U.S. prompted raids on Cuban terri-

tory, Castro said;

We are prepared to

fight them and ranswer in kind. U.s. leaders

should think

Wlat it they are aiding terror

ist plans

to eliminate Cuban leaders, they

themselves will not be safe.'

... World affairs ... seemed to be

entering

a more peaceful climate a few days

ago, but now this trend has changed with

attacks.

"'The U.S. is always ready to negotiate

and make promises which later it will not honor.

This has happened to promises made during the

October crisis. They have been broken as can

be seen with new attacks.

" "But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could lead to a worse

crisis than October's ...'"

6. The New York Times, in its coverage on 9 September,

used a UPI wire service report which omitted any reference

to the warning and threat which gave the interview its real

significance. The Washington Post did an abbreviated re-

write (9 September, page A-7) which, similarly, omitted

any reference to the main thrust of CASTRO's remarks.

. 3

SECRET

COCICG8

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

65 0 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 68

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

The Evening Star of Washington, D. C., printed_the HARKER

story nearly in its entirety in the second section of the

paper (9 September 1963, page B-4) and reworded the content

of the HARKER.

ewiew, placing the emphasis on the po-

litical asR

- in particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER

elements and burying CASTRO's warning to the United States

leadership in the middle of the piece.

7. There is no evidence in the files on the KENNEDy'

assassination.that this CASTRO interview was considered in

following up leads or in dealings with the Warren Commission

and its staff although Mexico Station specifically directed

Headguarters attention to the Ap story yery shortly after

the Dallas killing. More important, the interview appears

to have been forgotten in the contemporary political consid-

eration of relations with CASTRO's Cuba. There is no evidence

in the Agency records, either, that the Warren Commission

staff itself pursued the implication of the CASTRO interview

in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There is no

evidence in the files that anything along these lines was

stated by any other Cuban leader before the assassination.

8. The purpose of this review, undertaken at Mr. Belin's

request, is to reconsider Lee Harvey OSWALD's activity on the

assumption that as an avid newspaper reader - which we know

from testimony of Marina OSWALD and others - he read the

CASTRO warning and threat as reported above.: The results

4

S

'E CRET

C001939

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

66

_ 0s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 69

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

of the review, admittedly heavily using the 20-- 20 quality

of hindsight, may be stigulated in summary:

There is no increment of credible

evidence, apptying this phrase strictly, of

soviet andYor Cuban political, intelligence

or security service involvement in the as-

sassination to what was developed and con-

sidered by the Warren Commission and its

staff. The Commission's finding that

Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of

President KENNEDY and Officer

TIPPIT and did

them in alone and of his own determination

stands.

b. "Credible evidence" that would

upset or significantly modify this judgement

did (and does) not exist in Washington. But

such evidence could exist in Moscow and/or

Havana, whose voluntary inputs to the Warren

Commission were minimal in quantity and

quality, designed to cover up any admissions

of knowledge of, or connection with, OSWALD

which might be related directly or indirectly

with the assassination. Therefore, the belief

that there was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and/Or

DGI) connection with OSWALD will persist and

5

SECRET

C0C1940

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

67

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 70

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

-grow until there has been a full disclosure -

by these governments of all elements of

OSWALD's handling andistay in the Soviet Union

and his contacts in Mexico City. The

warren Compdation report should have left a

wider "window" for this contingency. That,

indeed, was the opinion at the working level,

particularly in the counterintelligence com-

ponent in the CIA in 1964. As was indicated

by Mr. Helms in his testimony before the

Warren Commission, CIA would continue to

regard this aspect of the OSWALD case as

still open. 1

C. In the absence of additional or new

elements of "credible" evidence,

are

"nuances" in the record that emerge

as

note-

worthy, in the light of other conclusions.

These are reviewed and summarized below, item

by item.

a. CASTRO's warning and threat of

y September 1963 - If OSWALD did indeed read

Investigation of the Assassination of President John F.

KENNEDY.

Hearings Before the President's Commission on the

Assassination of President KENNEDY (Washington,

1964),

I would assume

especially p.

the case could never be closed.'"

6

SECRET

CÔ01:41

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

: 68

_ 0 212

СОРУ NO.

---

## Page 71

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

it in New Orleans fm

ust be considered of

great significance, in

the light of the

pathological evolution of OSWALD's passivel

aggressive makeup after his attempt to kill

General wALKER early in April 1963 and his

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

Cuban revolution which is directly trace

able as far back as his Marine Corps.

service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP corres-.

pondent HARKER, irrespective of whether

there was any formal mandate, or even

security service contact with OSWALD:

by the Cubans or the Russians - was an act

of singular irresponsibility and under no

circunstances was excusable as retorsion

for what the Cuban emigres were doing during

the summer of 1963.

CUBAN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA,

EARLY 1959 (3)

9. The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion

of germinal significance to any review of the background of

Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with

CASTRO's Cuba.

DELGADO was probably the closest peer group

7

SECRET

COC1942

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

69

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 72

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

member to OSWALD during his specialist training period

at El Toro Maxine Corpôi Base December 1958 - September 1959.

The Warren Commission Report takes note of this:

TOSWALD told DELGADO that he was in

with Cuban diplomatic officials in

this country, which DELGADO at first took

to be 'one of his lies, but later

believed. ' " 2

10. Actually DELGADO's testimony says a lot more of

possible operational significance than is reflected by the

language of the report, and its implications do not appear

to have been run down or developed by investigation. Thus,

the record of the beginning of OSWALD's relationship.with

the Cubans starts with a question mark.

11. The period was one of transition in U.S.

-. Cuban

relations after CASTRO's takeoveI. OSWALD, and DELGADO at

the outset, were CASTRO supporters, OSWALD being particu-

larly keen about how to get to the island. DELGADO testi-

fied:

"... I didn't know what to tell him, so

I told him the best thing that I know was to

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination

of President John

F'.

KENNEDY (Washington,

1964), hereafter

cited

as Report,

687.

8

SECRET

Ci(1943

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

70

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 73

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

get in touch with a Cuban Embassy, you know.

But at that

time, that told him this - we

were on friendly, terms with Cuba, you know,

so this wasn't no subversion or malintent,

you know.

didn't know what to answer him.

I told him to see them.

"After a while he told me he was in

contact with them .•.

• ... I seen this envelope in his foot-

locker, wall-locker, and it was addressed to

him, and they had an official seal on it,

and

as far as I could recollect

was mail

from

Los Angeles, and he was telling

there was

a Cuban Consul. And just after he

started

receiving these letters - you see, he would

never go out, but stay near the post all the

time ..

.. he had one visitor after he started

receiving letters he had one visitor. It was

a man, because I got the call from the MP

guard shack, and they gave me a call that

OSWALD had a visitor at. the front gate. This

man had to be a civilian, otherwise they would

have Iet him in. So I had to find somebody to

relieve OSWALD, who was on guard, to go down

. 9

SECRET

C8C1:44

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

11

COPY NO.

c. 212

---

## Page 74

13-000,00

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

*

SECRET

there to visit with this fellow, and they spent

about an hour and a half, two hours, talking,

I guess, and he came back. I don't know who the

or what they talked about, but he looked

nonchalan®about the whole thing when he came

back.

He never mentioned who he was, nothing.

"MI. LIEBELER: How long did he

talk to

him, do you remember?

"MI. DELGADO : About an

and balf,

two hours ...

"MI. LIEBELER:

You

who this fellow was thet

asked OSWALD

to?

"Mr. DELGADO: NO. NO

"Mr. LIEBELER: Did you connect this visit

that OSWALD had at that time with the Cuban

Consulate?

"Mr. DELGADO: I did; because I thought it

funny for him to be receiving a caller at such a

late date - time. Also, up to this, time he

hardly ever received mail; in fact he seldom

received mail from home because I made it a

policy, I used to pick up the mail for our unit

and distribute it to the guys in there, and very

seldom did I ever see one for him. But every so

often, after he started to get in contact with

10

SECRET

CCC1S45

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

72

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 75

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

started getting letter

these Cuban people,

pamphlets and news

• ...

arted receiving letters,

you know

knOW!

and

, maybe pamphlets, you

Net]

church, things we get from

church, you know, but it wasn't a church.

"HE LIBERER, were they writion to

Spanish, any of them, do you know?

"Mr. DECADO : Not that can xent,

no.

"MI. LIEBELER:

Did

to believe that these things

any reason

to OSWALD

from the Cuban Consulate?

"MI. DELGADO: Well, I took it for granted

that they did after I seen the envelope, you

know ... something like a Mexican eagle, with a

big, impressive seal, you know. They had dif-

ferent colors on it,

looked like our colors, yo

Urnow.

But I can't

recall the

knew it was in Latin!

United, son

that. I couldn't under-

stand.

It was Latin.

"MI. LIEBELER: You don't know for sure

whether it was from the Cuban Consulate?

11

SECRET

COC1946

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

: 73

COPY NO.

0212

---

## Page 76

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

"Mr. DELGADO

No.

But he had told me

prior, just, before

Infound that envelope in his

wall locker. that heywas receiving mail from

them and one time he offered to show it to me,

but I washly mich interested because at the

time we had work to do, and I never did ask

to see that paper again, you know.

"Mr. LTEBELER: Did he tell you what his.

correspondence with the Cuban Consulate was

about?

"MI. DELGADO: No, he didn't!

"Mr. LIEBELER: Dia he ever indicate

Sto you

that it had to do with the conversati

that:

you had about going over to Cuba?

"Mr. DELGADO: No. . The only thing he

told me was that right after he had this con

versation with the Cuban people was that he was

going to - once he got out of the service - he

was going to Switzerkand... "3

12. OSWALD's application to Albert Schweitzer College,

Churwalden, Switzerland, was dated 19 March 1959, and he

was presumably to report there on 20 April 1960. Destined

for discharge

Exom the Marines on 7. December 1959, OSWALD

3

Hearings, Volume VIII, pP. 241 - 243.

12

SE C

RET

6001947

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

14

COPY NO.

• 212

---

## Page 77

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

accelerated his exit on grounds of family hardship in early

September 1959.

"September 1969 he was issued a

u.s. passport valia

for

travel - among other places to

Cuba and

the ussr.

He entered the Soviet Union from

Finland

on

ber 1959.

13.

DELGADO's testimony has the cast of credibility.

Granting that, it is of basic importance to focus attention

on the male visitor who contacted OSWALD at El Toro Camp

and talked with him for between one and a half to two hours.

The event was unique in DELGADO's recollections, and actually

there is nothing like it - on the record - in everything else

we know about OSWALD's activity in the United States before

or after his return to the United States. The record reflects

no identification of the El Toro contact. DELGADO's presump-

tion is that he was from the Cuban Consulate in Los Angeles.

Assuming that, the questions are: Who was it, and was

there reporting from Losi

AngeLes to Washington and Havana

that could, in effect.

represent the opening of a Cuban

file on OSWARi?

"PREDICTION" OF

ESIDENT KENNEDY'S DEMISE BY COMMUNIST

PARTY CELI. LEADER MORSE BENITEZ ZABOLA, 1962

14. Guatemala Station forwarded to Headquarters on

9 January 1964 a duplicate copy of à raw report by a

4

U.S./Cuban diplomatic and consular relations were severed

on 3 January 1961.

13

SECRET

C001948

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 75

COET NO.

os 212

---

## Page 78

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

penetration dated 5 danuary 1962 describing events at the

yearly Communist Party cell

meeting.

The cell leader,

MOrSe BENITEZ Zabola,

said that the Communist Party in

Guatamata should fara single new party:

"We need not

preoccupy ourselves over the politics of President KENNEDY

because we know, according to prognostications, that he

will die within the present year, 1962."

15. This report apparently had been discounted when

it was received and was not forwarded until the Station

re-reviewed all of its material after the assassination.

The file reflects no follow-up or formal dissemination

of the report.

ENIGMATIC THREATS BY CUBAN THIRD SECRETARY IN THE HAUCE,

7 NOVEMBER 1963

16. A sensitive liaison source, reporting after the

KENNEDY assassination, indicated that at the Soviet reception

on 7 November 1963, the Cuban Third Secretary.

Ricardo L. SANTOS Pesa, discussed the recent refugee raids

on Cuba and their implications with a host-country diplomat,

concluding with the admonition:

... Just wait and you

will see what we can do. It will happen soon."

Asked to

be more specific, what would happen soon, SANTOS replied:

"Just wait, just wait."

17. These data were passed to the Warren Commission

by memorandum, 31 March 1964. SANTOS was reported to have

14

SECRET

CCC1:43

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

: 76

COPY

NO.

- 09 212

---

## Page 79

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

a history of medical instability and was summarily recalled

from The Hague reportedly for reasons related to that fact

in April 1966.

INTERCEPTED: CONVERSATION OF CUBAN EMBASSY EMPLOYEE,

LUISA CALDERON, AFTERNOON OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963

18.

1730

Mexico City time, about five hours after, the

KENNEDY assassination, a Cuban Embassy employee named

"Luisa" received a telephone call in Spanish from an uniden-

tified male outside.

19. The caller asked her if she had heard the latest

news. "Luisa" jokingly replied: "Yes, of

dourseyI knew

it almost before KENNEDY ... Imagine, one, two, three and

now; that makes three [she laughs], what barbarians!

20. Both speakers agreed on the seriousness of the

assassination. "Luisa"

also stated that the party

at

Silvia DURAN's had been called off so it would not appear

that they were celebrating the death of KENNEDY, nor would

they have the party, coincide with the burial. Finally

she

said she planned to

intove that night into the house of a

doctor (a womani, Friend.

21. Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto suggestion

of foreknowledge? This is the only item in the intercept

coverage of the Cubans and Soviets after the assassination

that contains the suggestion of foreknowledge or expectation.

15

SE

CRE T

0001950

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

77

COPY

NO.

08 212

---

## Page 80

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S

E

CRET

22. The tenuous, enigmatic character of the conversation

is sharply highlighted by the following facts:

"Guisa" was probably identical with

Juisa CAlDERON; a cadre worker of the Cuban

Directorate Genéral of Intelligence (DGI).

She returned to Cuba in 1964 and was reported

to be working in DGI Headquarters.

b. The DGI element in Mexico City in the

fall of 1963 was headed by Alfredo MIRABEL Diaz

who had arrived on 2 September 1963, formally

•as the replacement of the Consul Eusebio AZCUE

(departed 19 November 1963). The deputy DGI

chief (and as of June 1964, MIRABEL's successor)

was Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez.

c. The "Silvia DURAN" named in Luisa's

conversation was the receptionist, a Mexican

national, who dealt with OSWALD during his known

visits on 27 and 28 September to the Cuban

installations in connection with a Cuban visa

application for stay and/or transit.

Silvia DURAN is the sole live witness on the

record regarding OSWALD's activity in

Mexico City.

Her testimony, however, in its

entirety was taken and presented, solely, by the

Mexican Governmental authorities.

A direct

16

SECRET

C001951

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

78

COPY NO.

0° 212

---

## Page 81

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

confrontation with

super was requested by the

Warren Commission staff but rejected by the

Mexican authorities. It is from Silvia DURAN's

statements that it was learned that OSWALD

became engaged in a personal altercation on

27 September with Eusebio AZCUE.

d. Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez,

alias Marcos, and his DGI assistant,

Rogelis RODRIGUEZ Lopez, were positively

identified in February 1964 by two independent

sources as engaged in the active development

and facilitation of the training of Nicaraguan

agents for the purpose of assassinating

General Annstasio SOMOZA. VEGA, it is estab-

lished, was on post in

Mexico City during

OSWALD's stay there 27 September - 2 October

1963. He left Mexico City on 3 November 1963

for Havana. It was reliably reported about

VEGA that all individuals going to Cuba, legally

or illegally, had to pass through him first. He

took the biographical data and sent it to Cuba

for name checking, a procedure which normally

took fifteen days. 5

For example, VEGA would have handled the details of the

visa action and facilitation of the

trip to Cuba via

Mexico City from 28 December 1962 - 21 January 1963 that

17

SECRET

00C1/52

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 79

COPY NO.

_ 0f 212

---

## Page 82

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

23. There-is no'evidence in the OSWALD case file that

Silvia DURAN was sabjected to a systematic elicitative

intentogation that would have related her dealings with

or confirmed by intercept, with the data held

on the Cubàn

DGI, its personalities and methods, in

Mexico City. Was it normal for a case like OSWALD's,

considering the fuss he allegedly made with AZCUE, for the

applications to be handled solely by a local employee and

a lame duck like AZUE whose slot had been taken by the

DGI chief?

Whatever the answer to these questions, they

were not asked at the time. And there remains the more

fundamental question: accepting the DURAN story on its

face, could it have happened without the knowledge and

participation of the DGI personnel above cited? This

seems unlikely especially because VEGA is later

ited by

a Cuban DGI defector as having stated he was aware OSWALD

made several visits to the Cuban Consulate. It is clear

CASTRO's overseas intelligence and security service could

have more in its files than was surfaced in the DURAN

was taken by Vincent Theodore LEE, the organizer of the

Fair Play

Committee for Cuba, with which OSWALD established

relations from Dallas during the period 19 April -

2 November 1963.

There is an overlap between LEE's and

VEGA's travels to Havana during that period:

departed Mexico City on 6 January for Havana and returned

on 13 February 1963.

18

SECRET

C0(1^53

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

80

COPY

NO.

0 212

---

## Page 83

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

statements. Coming back to the beginning: "Luisa" -

Luisa CALDERON - as a member of the DGI unit in Mexico City

sould very wefl have known something that would make what

she said to her unidentitied caller less a matter of

boastful self-indulgence than was assumed at the time.

SILVIA DURAN®

SUBSTANTIAI AMPLIFICATION OF ADMISSION OF

ALLEGED PERSONAL, RELATIONS WITH LEE HARVEY-OSWALD, - 1967

24. The defects viewed in hindsight of the Silvia, DURAN

testimony already have been suggested above.

(In that

context of criticism it would also be relevant to reconsider

the implications of the two intercepted telephone conversations

on 26 November 1963 between the Cuban President, DORTICOS,

and his Ambassador to Mexico, Joaquim Hernandez ARMAS,

because the thrust of the conversation dealt with the ques

tion whether Silvia DURAN had been asked about [or been

offered?] money payments by her Mexican interrogators.)

25. As of September 1964 Silvia DURAN gave up her

Cuban Embassy job. In the spring of 1967 Silvia DURAN

was reported by a reliable and sensitive

source to have

cut all relations with Cubans. Her account, in 1967, 0f

how she had been taken into custody and had been interrogated

after the assassination repeated what was already known.

She added, under circumstances that did not permit the

source to challenge or elicit corroborative detail, that

19

SECRET.

6001954

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

• PAGE

COPY

NO.

1 o 211

---

## Page 84

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

she had gone out with OSWALD during his stay in Mexico City

and claimed she had dexual relations with him.

ALLEGATIONS OFF CONSPIRATORIAL CONTACT BETWEEN OSWALD AND

CUBAN GOVERNMENT AGENTS WITH PARTICULAR REFERENCE TO

ALLEGATIONS OF (A) ELENA GARRO DE PRAZ AND

(B) OSCAR CONTRERAS

26.

th

Warren Comnission reported, "Literally

dozens of allegations of a conspiratorial contact between

OSWALD and agents of the Cuban Government have been

investigated

...."6 Among these cases, which consumed

hundreds of CIA man-hours in Headquarters and abroad

and similarly the FBI in the United States was the

Nicaraguan walkin in Mexico City, 26 November 1963,

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.

27.

The ALVARADO case is taken up in detail by the

Warren Conmission under the cryptograph "D."" ALVARADO

claimed that he had seen an American, whom he identified

as OSWALD, receive money some time in mid-September 1963

in a meeting in a patio of the Cuban Consulate in

6

See Report, p. 305 ff. -Some of the others were the cases

of Ylario

ROJAS Villenueve in Cozumel and Guadaloupe,

the allegations of Enrique Ruedolo GONGORA in New York City,

the claims of Robert Edward GALLANT, Santa Clara Prison

Farm, California, and the allegations of Ray DOBKIN's.

7

See Report,

307 - 308.

20

SECRET

C0C1955

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

82

NO.

_ of 212

---

## Page 85

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

Mexico city. ALVARADO's story was ultimately broken by the

use of the polygraphalon which ALVARADO showed evidences of

deception, and by bringing ALVARADO's former Nicaraguan

security service contral into the case.

28. The ALVARADa story is a particularly acute repre-

sentation of the difficulties that beset the evaluation of

observed evidence: certain elements of the story persist

despite the impeachment of its major premises. ALVARADO,

whose account did not become public until the release of

the Warren Report in October 1964, talked consistently of)

the presence in the Cuban Consulate transaction of a Negro

with red-dyed hair.

29. Elena GARRO de Paz is a mecurial,

articulate and

socially prominent Mexican writer, married, but separated

from a high-ranking Mexican foreign service official. She

is also the cousin of Horacio DURAN, the husband of

Silvia DURAN, cited above. There is a strong personal

antipathy between the two women descending from

Elena GARRO's trenchant anti-Communism.

30. From October 1964 until his retirement in the fall

of 1969, a U.S. Embassy officer, Charles THOMAS, persistently

kept up a stream of reports and memoranda reflecting GARRO's

account of what had actually gone on between OSWALD, the

Cubans and in particular Silvia DURAN in September 1963,

including a repeated reference to a Negro with red-dyed hair.

21

SECRET

0001956

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

83

COPY

NO.

• 212

---

## Page 86

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

31. The, first reference to the GARRO story was noted in

a Mexico Station Memorandum of Record dated 12 October 1964:

"Elena GARRo [saidl that she and her

daughter were invited to a party at the Cuban

Imbassy during the period she now finds out

that oswasp was here in Mexico prior to the

assassination. She was invited by a Mexican

secretary in the Cuban Embassy whose husband

is a cousin of the GARRO family (Horacio DURAN].

At the party she saw three Gringos, not

drinking, not mixing and more or less just

standing around together like three bumps on a

log. They were so obviously out of place that

she asked someone in the Cuban Embassy about

them and was told that 'they were just passing

through.' She claims that ón the way these

three Gringos stood out she took a good 100k

at them as did her daughter. When the

assassination occurred and OSWALD's picture was

spread into the newspapers, both Elena and

her daughter immediately said that he was one

of the three Gringos 'without a doubt' at the

party."

32.

GARRO repeated her story to Mr. Charles William

THOMAS, an Embassy political officer on 10 December 1965:

22

SECRET

CCC1:57

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE 84

COPY NO.

of

212

---

## Page 87

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

In September 1963 after her return from abroad, she went

to a party, accompanied by her daughter, at the home of

Ruben DURAN Temphasis added]. Ruben is one of the two

brothers of Horacio DURAN, who married her cousin. She

osward and two other young Americans. At the party

she was

discouraged from talking with him. Other guests

were the Cuban Consul AZCUE, General Clark FLORES,

Silvia DURAN, who she later learned was OSWALD's mistress

while he was here, Emilio CARBALLIDO and a Latin American

Negro man with red hair [emphasis added]. In November 1963

when the identity of the assassin became known, she and

her daughter went to the Cuban Embassy and shouted

"assassins" and other insults at the staff there.? shortly

afterward, she and her

Naughter were visited by a friend,

Manuel CARVILLO [Or CALVILLO], then an official in the

Secretariat of tie Gobernacion and were told he had orders

to escort them to a smalland obscure hotel in the center

of town..

were kept there for eight days under pretext

that they wer

langer. When she told CARVILLO she wanted

to go to the American Embassy and explain what she knew of

OSWALD, she was told that the American Embassy was full of

Communist spies.

33. On 25 December 1965 and 9 January 1966 in further

interviews with THOMAS, GARRO and her daughter elaborated and

These particulars were not confirmed by independent observers

at the time.

23

SECRET

C0C1958

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY

85

NO.

or 212

---

## Page 88

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

in certain particularg significantly modified her earlier

She also acknowledged that she and her daughter

had been interviewed by ambassy officers to whom she claimed

they đia nốt gủ vẹ

a very complete story because the

Embagsy artiegrs did not appear to give much credence to

anything they said.

34. It developed that GARRO and daughter had béen

interviewed by the Legal Attache on 17 and 24, November 1964.

Her information had been similar to what she claimed in her

account to THOMAS but had not been substatiated by inquiries.

The FBI representative therefore considered the matter closed

and reaffirmed his disengagement from the matter to the CIA

Chief of Station on 27 December 1964 and to the Ambassador

on 25 February 1965.

35. The Embassy Political Officer, however, persisted in

his interviews and reporting. In a memorandum of conversation,

13 July 1966, GARRO identified the place to which she had been

taken by CALVILO as the Hotel Vermont.

(This detail checked

out

affirmatively. -GARRO was at the Hotel 23 - 24, 25 - 27

and 28 - 30 Novenber 1963. In another, on 7 February 1967,

GARRO ' s

ữing

weissitudes with the Cubans are set out.

And finali

THOMAS's retirement from U.S. Government

service, the Department of State, at his request,

28 August 1969, disseminated to CIA and FBI a compilation of

his reporting of the Elena GARRO interviews.

24

SECRET

C0C1/53

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

86

COPY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 89

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEO

SECRET

36. There the matter rests. GARRO's chronology of the

events she described as having occurred in the Mexican capital

in September 1963 never coincided with the confirmed data

of OSWALD's presence there.

Her story, however, had two

points. con

guant with allegations by others regarding

OSWALD:

a.

ALVARADO's allegations regarding the

Negro with the red-dyed hair [this detail could,

however, have been gleaned from the

Warren Commission's published account of the

"D" casel and

b. Silvia DURAN's later claim of

intimate personal contacts with OSWALD

37. Beginning in March and amplified in

1967, the

American Consul, Benjamin J. RUYLE, in Tampico developed a

contact with a local Mexican journalist,

Oscar CONTRERAS Lartigue, who claired to have encountered

OSWALD with other pro-CASTRO students at the

University of Mexico campus in September 1963.

38. In June 1969 CONTRERAS was interviewed by a CIA

officer:

He studied a

* at the University or Mexico

for three y

approximately 1960 - 1964. He

belonged to a clandestine pro-CASTRO revolutionary

group at the University. Regarding the OSWALD

25

SECRET

C0C1.80

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

87

PAGE

COPY NO.

-of

212

---

## Page 90

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

case he was extremely cautious and although he

was not able

or willing to give dates and

names, he said OSWALD visited the University

of Mexi

a campus shortly after the Cuban

@him a visa to visit Cuba.

Emba

OST

nquiries regarding pro-Cuban

revolutionary groups at the University and

was directed to CONTRERAS and his friend.

OSWALD met CONTRERAS and four other persons

as they came out of a round-table discussion

held in the faculty of Philosophys OSWALD

told the group it was urgent that he visit,

cuba and the cuban inbassy has dented him a

visa. He requested aid from CONTRERAS' group.

CONTRERAS and others mistrusted OSWALD because

they felt he was a CIA provocation. The group

allowed OSWALD to accompany them the rest of the

day, that night and part of the next day.

OSWALD

was very introverted and appeared to be slightly

crazy. OSWALD made no mention of an assassination

plot but kept a

ringing ni

se point he had to

travel to

immedia

tely.

39. At this

th FBI knowledge, the matter was

turned over to the Mexican authorities who determined that

CONTRERAS was indeed at the University of Mexico but only

26

SECRET

CCC1961

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

21?

PAGE

88

COPY

NO.

of

---

## Page 91

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

for the years 1959 - 1960 and that he had been publicly

associated in protest artivity for the Student Revolutionary

Bloc (BER) in January 1961. However, the group ceased

Functioning as such in the middle of 1962, and

Oscar CONTRERAS was never one of its leaders. No further

work is

retkested in the files an the CoNTRERAs allegations.

Apart from the unsustained claims made by CONTRERAS about

his own presence at the University, there is an additional

element that undermines the credibility of his account:

OSWALD's Spanish, which was barely adequate to get him meals

near the hotel, seens hardly likely to have permitted him to

carry on for an extended period with D:

Diversity student

group.

27

SECRET

6001.62

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

89 0 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 92

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-22594

31 January 1964

BEN:CRANDUM FOR: Nis. J. Loatiani

SUBJECT:

"Endormation Developed by CIA un tDe

Activity ci Lee farvey OSWALD is

Mexico City, 28 Septamber - 3 Coteber 1963

as Transmitted to Warren

Commission

do 1 an enclosing a resentation a the information

developed by CIA on or about Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico

City. We have incladed in this paper only hard, stastative

Information, Asy judgments that are made represent pro

fessiocal evaluations by inlividuals who have worked over

the years as spacialista in their fielda. Speculazion, rumos,

and vags detail not directly relsted to OSWAlDis activity

have not been incladed.

2. Pursuant to OUs discIsalon On 14 Jansary 1764, I

bare given the encloure an appocriate classification. The

compremind ol this monterial in its present fort would lead

directly to the destruction a current sources and methode of

this Agency 1a Mexico and elsewbere.

Document Number.

509-803

(signed)

Richard Hatre

for FOlA Revion 0f; MN 197S Deputy Director for Plana

Enclose

Orig & 1 - Addressee w/att

1 - DDP w/att

1 - WH/3 (ME. Whitter) w/att

1 - SR/CI w/att v

- Chies, CI/R&A w/att /

CI/RGRocca de/ 31 January 1964

CS COPY

memo

Ser

GIA dated 10 76 1964

ATT.

201-289245

31 dau ki.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002r07

PAGE

134 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 93

13-00000

SECHE!

W.

SEi:"

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

13

4:10

• ...

31 January 1954

Information Developed by CIA on the Activity o!

Iod Farvey COWARD iraliaico City

23 Senterber - 3, Octesies 1963

9

I. OSWALD's Activity in Messico City

1. Oz 9 Octobest the CIA Suition in Mesico Cisy rescived

the following information fibon a -eliable aad proven sourco:

As American named lue OSWALD had contacted

the Soviet Embassy in Mezico City on Tuesday, 1 Octobes

1953. He had apoken in haling Russian to the Soviet

Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovici OBYEDKOV, to whors

he said he had visited the Irbassy two days eazlier,

Saturday, 29 September. No asked whether there had

been a reply to a telegraz, that the Consal with whom he

had spoles, but whose name he could not eccal, had

promised to send to Washiagion. OBYEDKOV had

attempted to establish the muntity of the Consu: with

whom CSWALD had tajredy l ii had beez a dari curcos.

then it had probably been KOSTIKOV. OBYEDKOV,

WARNING NOTCE

SECRET SENSIVES ACO ANO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

COPY NO.

135

of

212

1

---

## Page 94

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE RET

after a chock with Sovic: Consular personel, assured

OSWALD tho telegram had been sent to Washingion but

no answer had been received.

tho samo day it was receivedo

2a A slo chock In Washington Wida is routino in tase

matters rovealed the possibility of an ideatity between the Lee

OSWALD Woo had spokes with OSYEDKOV, and presumably

with KOSIIKOV, and the defecter returnoe, Lee Harvey OSWAID.*

3. On 10 October 1963 CIA Hicadquartera disseminated by

cable the report in substantially the form and in the detail

indicated above, in paragraph 1, to the Federalagoncies whose

jurisdictional interesta bad been established by a review of

OSWAID's filo: the Federal Burcau of Irvectigation, the Degast-

* The CIA file on Lee Harvey. OSWALD was opezod on 9 Decomber

1960 to accommodate biographic information developed by CLA ia

response to an inquiry from the Department o State oz a list oi

Amcrican defectors in Soviet Eloc countrios, OSWAIDia Was

among the names in the list. The Department of State inquizy

was dated 25: October 1950. An interim reply was given by CIt

0z 3 November 1960; a final reply, oz 21 November 1950. Usti

ezly Octobes 1953 tsa coatests eá tha OSWALD file held by CIA

consisted entircly of press materiala and disseminations

received from the Departmozt of State, the Federal Bureau of

Isvestigation, and the Navy Department.

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CECZECS

PAGE

136 0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 95

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

AND

27:1005 116:9

ment a State, the Navy Depa-ticat, and the Immigration 2ed

Naturalization Service.

A) commoni was included in the report

notirg the likelihood that the subject, Ine OSWALD, was

probably identical with the former viarize who had deiccied to

tho Sovies Union in 195% (I'he repori diaseminated by CIA is

Washiagtoa on 10 Cctober also iscluled a physical doscription

aí an individual wão was believed to have been tie OSWALD whol

bad costacted the Soviets in Mexico City, It was subsequery

established by investigatios that the description did not portals

tO OSWAID. I

#i On the same day, 10 October 1953, CIA Headguasiors

seat a leagthy cable sunmary to the Mcrico City Station of the

backgrousd inforration hold in the Headquarters: file o3

OSWALD. An instruction was incluled for the Mesico City

Station to pasa the substarce of its 9 Cctober report to the local

representatives of the same Federal departments and ageacies

that had been given the information in Washington, This

instruction was immediately carried out.

Is this manner the

Information On OSWALD'a coutact with the Soviets on l Cetober

wes passed is Mexico City to the Embassy, the FBi representative,

tis Naval Attacho, and to the office of the Immigration 2rd

Nstualication Service. There were no requests from recitanto of

the report for fisches isformation or for follow up investigation.

WAni

-3-

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

MITOS INVOLVES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

08C2810

PAGE

137 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 96

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITEO

5. Aitor the assassization of President keazady and the

a-suit of Lee Parvey OSWALD in Lacoazive savier o5 all

availablo sourcos was edentation la Mexico City to deterraine

Bao puspong STRaWALDr vict It was Icarasd taat OSWALD

had also

Winiscd tho Cuban Conquiato la Mexico City and ind

cal'cod theza ma,a doris a Monican national, zamed Sivis

DURAN. After the assassination and tho publicity about Lea

OSWALD, Sulvia DURAiN bad told a surabes of relativos and

Íriende that she had talkei to OSW4LD about a Cubas visa.

Silvia DURAN and her husband, Forcio DURAN Navarzo, were

detained and questlored by the Mexican police iroza 23 to 25

Novembes 1963.

6. Altor giving some of sae details of her own personal

background - she is as adraitted Loitist sympatiizer and had

fonzosly worked for the Mexicar-Cubas Instituto of Cultuzal

Relztions • Silvia DURAN said that woon sho fira: heard os the

dast of President Kennedy she

been deprossed and tought

the assassin muct havarbeen a maniac. When she learsed shat

ho was associa

a With the "Falt Play jor Cuba Cornelitea"

she did not ba

7. She talied about the case io her husbazd and whoa cie

heard the zame of Ice OSWALD mentioned, she recognized it as

WARRING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SCIRCES AND

LVE

1.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C2/11

PAGE

138 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 97

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

tic man who had corne to te Consulato about two months before

to sot a visa to transit Ca ga bis way to the Use?. Sho

•scalisad that hechad saia no was marrica to a fusalas and ia:

he had balonged to the "Fair Play for Cuba"

group.

She chacieed.

her file on hina In tho Concular archives and from the dascisivo

dats, sha was suro it was the same man. Ho was short, blend,

poorly dressed and his face got zed whes he talled, lie was

denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have a Soviet

visa, nad he was told to get tho Soviet visa flist. but it was noted

bat this sould take about four montas. She had askod to Cubar

Consul himsel, Euseblo AZCUS, to talk to OSWALD ard dey

had an argument when AZCUE uigod OSWALD to leave Mosico

instead of waiting there. The Consul had phoned the Sovie: Co-

sulate and talked to the person handling OSWALD's case, whu

had said it would take about four months to hear from Moscow

about the Sovict visa. The samaliterzoon, OSWALD bad como

the same thing. Shajgava

ba cit agala and she has faro

it is case he

Does got bala sausat visa. He did not call baci she said.

8. Silvia DURAgEs husband, Moracio DURAN Navarro, gavo

oscentlally the same story, as he had previously heard it from

his wilo aitor the assassiaation. He had never had any persoaal

contact with OSWALD.

• poor a fratio, no moto*

SENSITIVE SOURCES-A

J-s-232

0002/12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

139

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of 212

---

## Page 98

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

tho

9. Siivia DURAN was reiatezrogated by tho Mexican police

from 27 to 28 Novembcz Dui she did noi chaage or add matezially

to har story about OSWALD.

10 l ta own that do Can Ambassador in Voics.

JoaqUia JERNANDEZ Armac, Ioosted o3

santand

1905.

The

Cuban Goverment seat the Marices Government a still note a

protest, which tise Mexicans = ejected.

Hovember

11. We are reliably informed that on 25.

nite

day after DURAN's release, Cuba Ecided DONTICOS querica

FERNANDEZ about his obot, HICRNANDEZ confirmed that

there had been an aicacation botween CSWALD and Consul

AZCUE, DORTICOS made a parsictent but unsuccessiul cfior:

to determine from HERNANDEZ whether the Mexican auchorities

bad questioned Mes. DURAN abcut money, of thought that the

Cubans bad paid OSWALD margy.

12a, The GIA follow-up investigation preduced the following

confirmed resula

ta which have a bearing on ves. DURANs account:

no 27 September. In mid-afteracos, Silvia DURAN

informed tho Soviet Embassy that a male American citizen

had requested a visa to transit Cuba, on his way to the

Wats

NG MONGE

ET.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/13

PAGE

COPY

NO.

140 •s 212

---

## Page 99

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

r;::

D

0001:

Soviot Union, Sho desired to know wio the American had

tal'cod with at the Coviet Consulate. Alao, aho tadicaiod

that the Guan Consulate coul grast him the visa ard

arrange immigration actaila l tao concension of a Soviet

Crisa were assured.

27 Septance. Fusunt to her lequist, silvia

DURAN received a confirmation from the Sovict Embassy

that the American had bean to the USSR tetallation.

Fe

had showa thera a lestor from the Saviet Conaulata le

Washington indicating that he had been long awatting a

visa, for himself and his wile to go to the

USSE.

No

ansver had come from Washingion; however, the waiting

period was somctimes four oi five months, The American

also had a leiter attesting that be was a member of a pro-

Cuban orgarination but he had Claimed that the Cubaaa

would no: give his a visa unlesh ho had alrezay received

a Lussian visa.

Consulate,

Althouga ta America brat artll at tao Cuba

RAN repeated that see dovid not give

him a transi visa unicos & Soviet viga was Sorthcoming.

notwithstanding the American'o wish to go to Cuba to wait

- 7-

iSREE

SENSITIES SOURCES ANS

METHODS INVOL ES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002014

PAGE

141 • 212

COFY NO.

---

## Page 100

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SE

there for his Soviet visa, According to DURAl, tho

American know no dee da Cusa and são interica to

appropriately annotato the Americaa's card. The Soviet

ailinint echoed her sisterent that the Amorican was not

28 Septembcr, Silvia DUR1N was again visited

at tina Cuban Embassy la Vcrico City by the American

secking a Cuban transit visa. MIs. DURAN contictcó at

least two members of the Soviet Imbassy aid facilitated

= dixoct convessatior betiveen che of the Savieté and tie

American. Conversing in 200 Russias

the-Ancrican

stated that he alrcady had beca to the Soviet Consulate

and had ict an address. The Soviet official-eplied that

ho was aware d that, The American suggested foot he

had not known his address then, and le had gose to the

Cubas Embassy to a8% for the address, because they fad

It. The American thez acceded to the Soviet official's

invitation to come by and give them the addresa.

d. 1 October. In mid-morning as uniderilfied

individual, speakin

§ broken Russian, contacted the Soviet

Vilitary Attacho in Mexico City. He said he had been to

- 3-

SSESSES AND

128

KIDS INTONES

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

GO02r 15

PAGE

COPY

142 •212

NO.

---

## Page 101

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

mad.

SE''"'T!"

MSTROUS 11:

- ED

tic Libansy tho previoua Saiday (Cl Senterer) an

had talked with a Cousul who had said they would sera a

telegram to Washington had there beon a roply? He

wardeferred to the Condulate for the informatias.

These additional materials were norantly discomi

Washington by the CIA to the Wait House, to Departmost gE

State, and the Federal Bureau of Investinction.

c. l Octobes: See paragzaph I above lo Lee

OSWALD's contac: wit the Soviet Consultc.

I. Yelsriy Vl-dissirovich: KOSCISOV

13. I la believed that the Soviet oficial wish whom

OSVALD dealt in Mesico City was Consular Attache Valeriy

Vidimirovich jOSTIKOY, barE in Moscow, 17 March 1933.

A photograph a KOSIIKOV is attached. In his letter ci

" November to toe Soviet Consulse in Washington, OSTALD

wrote about hia linetings my Comrado KOSTIN (sic) esthe

Soviet Union in Mesico Cita Mesiço." There is so official

as the Soviet Embasgy la Mesico City with a name resembling

"KOSTIN", other

than Consul KCSTINOV.

KOSTKOV is the serior dificer of five Sovict

Consula- representatives who ical with visas and related

SANE SOURCES AND

METHOOS INVOKE

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/16

PAGE

143

COFY

NO.

of

212

---

## Page 102

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED ALESSAGE

1 SECRET

(

RECORDS-OFFICER-STAMP

ROUTAC

Chefollowing action

authqrited:

DE SENSITIZE

g DIRECTOR

ROM & MEXICO CITY

Signed:

ICTION: C/SR 5

(MR. BAGLEY, SR, MP. REICHHARD 63 vE)

COPIES

_ISSUED AT 0030,

UFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/Cr/OPS, C/FI, C/WH2, D/OS 2, VR

Hote:

3)

•Il destruction,

cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriate

SECRET 240406Z

INMEDIATE DIR SITE MEXI 7045

DIA? REDWOOD LCIMPROVE

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON_

1 6 APR 1976

REF

DIR 84885

ELRRIMPDET CL BY 01220S

PROVIDED BELOW SUFFICIENTLY DEFINITIVE SUMMARY OF LOCAL

L Now 631957281

Seepay

of

Tubp

1977I6K

CONTACTS IVAN GAVRILOVICH ALFERIEV (UNLESS OT HERW I SE

STATED,

INFO FROM LIENVOYD • 18, 19, 23 NOV 60 CONTACIS WITH ENRIQUETA CONEZ

OF GOM RE EXTENSION OF COURTESY PERMIT FOR SELF REMAIN IN MEXI,

10, 11 NOV 60 WITH FNU VARELA RE DELIVERY OF SUBJ'S FURNITURE.

3" NOV 6E AND 7 MAR 61 WITH JUAN SEDILLO RE INSURANCE SUBJ CAR.

• 3 NOV 6$ SERGIO DURAN OF NATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK RE PICKUP

OF MONEY. 14, 15 NOV HUMBERTO GONZALEZ RE PICKING UP NEW CAR.

25 -28 NOV SUBJ TREATED AT SANATORIO REFORMA

• SUSUALLY USED gY

SOUS BY WELL KNOWN LEFT IST DR. CARLOS NOBLE HOYO WHO USED

for FOlA Review on

Document Number.

FREQUENTLY BY SOUS.

23' DEC JITH THIRD SEC CUBAN CULTURAL ATTACHE

TERESA PROENZA RE ARRANGING FRESS CONFERENCE FOR ROLANDO CUSELA

PRESIDENT OF CUSAN FELL 18 FEB AND 28 MAR 61 WITH DENTIST DR.

LESLIE VALERY FOR AFPOINTMENS FIX SON'S TEETH. VALER+ 201-289248

FREQUENTLY USED

BY SOVS. 1 MAR ARRANGES MEETING WITH IG'ACIO ACOSTA

LAGUNES, PROMINENT PRO COMMIE AIDE OF GEN LAZARO CARDENAS.

28

MAR ENU FEMALE MANJARREZ (PHONES FOON MONITOR BELIEVES BE AUDITIN

D: 200-5-41

200541

SECRET

551

REPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE SUNG OFE IS POTH AT 5

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/17

PAGE

COFY

144 09

NO.

212

---

## Page 103

13-00000*

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 6729:

-PAGE_2

TALKS FAMILIARLY WITH SUBJ AND INVITES HIM TO FRESS CONFERENOS..BO.

TURE AT HOTEL REFORMA WASRE A CURAN TO SPEAK. 3 MAY WITH GUADALU:

PEREZ MACIA OF GOBERNACION RE OBTAINING CUNDETERMINED) VISA. E

JUNE AND & JULY WITH OSCAR

SANTAELLA, FORD SALESMAN. 7 JUNE WITH

JUAN FARCIA AND FNU PEREZ OROZCO, DODGE SALESMEN.

2 AUG CALLS

ROCER OR ROBERT KAIZ OF "FRANCE FRESSE" TO INVITE TO SOVEMS PRESS

CONFERENCE. NE MAY AND 16 JUNE 1962 CALLS EDMUNDO JARDON OF PRENSA

LATINA TO GET TOGETHER. 14 JUNE ASKS SPEAK WITH DR. GUILLERSO

MONTANO ISLAS, PROMINENT MEXICAN PRO CONNIE LEADER WELL KNOWN

HOS. 22 JUNE HE AND TASS REP ANATOLIY PAVLENKO INVITED TO LUNCHEON

BY MEXICAN PRESIDENT'S PRESS SEC HUNSERTO ROMERO. 25 SEP IS INVITED

TO LUNCHEON WITH DR. IGNACIO CHAVEZ, RECTOR AT UNAM. 3 DEC ACCEPIS

INVITE ATTEND BUFFET FOR PRESS ON BEHALF CARL J. MIDAIL, U-S.

NEWS AND WORLD REPORT. 23 JAN 63 HORACIO CHANCACLINI OF UNITED

NATIONS POSTPONES HIS APROGNTIENT WITH SUBJ. 19 FEB FNU SABINO

CASRERA OF INSURANCE FIRM RE PAYMENTS.

8 MAR INVITES CANADIAN

NEN SPAPERMAN JOHN ALIUS TO SPAG DINNER...

30 APR REQUESTS APOSINTMENT

mains a bar

WITH RICARDO POERY CERVANTES, PROMINENT LEFEIST

JOURNALIST IN

- CLOSE FREQUENT

CONTAÇE SOUS.

15 AND 17 MAY TALKS WIST NEW YORK

THES PEP PAUL KENEDY WHO INVITES SUEJ DINNER 26 SAY. 13 KAY

DIRECTOR OF VOZ DE MEXICO AND POM CENTRAL CONMITTEEMAN MANUEL

TERRAZAS GUERRERO, ASKS SUSJ FOR SOV FINANCIAL SUBSIDY: 2,3 BAY'

SUBJ CALLS JOHN RETTIE (SEE MEXI 4743). 14 JUNE: CALL'S WELL KNCWH

-"6

LEFTIST CLEMENTINA BASSOLS TO INTERVIEW HER.

1A COT INVITES

EXP IQUE LOUBET OF EXCELSIOR TO SOVENE RECEPTION BEHALF COSTONASTS:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/18

PAGE

COPY

145 •$ 212

NO.

---

## Page 104

13-00000

(

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3 28:

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

PAS

14 OCT INVITES JAVIER SANTOS LORENT OF NOVEDADES TO SARE AR

30 CCT UNSUCCESSFULLY TRIES CONTACT CLENENTINA PASSOLS.

1÷:

TRIES CONTACT RICARDO POERY CERVANTES,: 14

AND

15 NOV ARRANSES

VIRGINIA COMEZ DIETO, LEFTIST AND PARAMOUR OF POERY.

SEC

R

C/S CONMENT: # REQUESTED INFO RE TRAVEL VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH KOSTIKO:,

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G0C2513

PAGE

146 0 212

COPY

NO

---

## Page 105

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

*12-52

POUT:3

:247 3:13

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

EXT

DATE :

TO

:

520%l:

INDÉX

5613

O NO INDEX

25 Nov 63

C FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TRIS HIECUME ECUSE

NOCEORGE BUFIDY

DEPIRINIRT OF SIUES

MR. U.. ALEXTS JOENSON

JELZRAT. FURRAT OF. INYESTIGATION

E CEYIRAT INLITTTGEICE AGAICI

S0:iS: C/WH 4

INFO: DEL, DDP, (C/C1.2

DEFERPED

ROUTINE

VR*

33 807:1

IMEDILE

TO

.INFO

SSTSET /10 FCRRICY DISSEK

CITE DIR

85246.

SUEJSCI:

LÃT B. OSRATD

CaI 26 ICYSMEI

AR JCSB GUILLERMO AGUIRRE OF MAXICO TOLD JHE JOLLOWING

SIARYIIOS

IIVCEMAETOX TO PRISA MORAGÁ, UALUOS SILATES IIFORMATIONS/OFSICER INI MIXTEO CITT: •

MRTA RCDRICUR DE LOPEZ

, SAID A SAN IN LAW OF HSRS

PARNESTO RCDRIGUEZ,

SEG DIVES III JEI CHLATS WIS TILL ACAIAIVISD WIEIS OSFALD.

SON

II IUT IS À CURAN NEO LUVES AS 212 JAMPERSON PAPRISE, IS ORIZANS,

TE: TESrOS 5-9658.

AFIIESTO RODFIGUEZ, RUES A SPARISE LANGUACE SCRCOI

AIID IS ANII CASTRO. ACCOFDING TO MARIA RODRIGUEZ DE LOPSI ECR SON

II IAZ IAS A TAFSD COUVERSATIOR WTYOCUHOH Number 13-48

for FOIA Raview ón APR 1975

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

ENID OF MESSAGE

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1979

_IMPCET CL BY D122 03

C/S COMMENT: * DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT APFLOOR CABLES.

0:200-5-41

201-289248

63.0077

26 Novb3

JARC RCVET

: c/t=/3_C

CWET

RELEASING

OFFICER

LATING OFFICERS

CROUP &

Encluded tram sulomatic

SECRET

daclassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN, THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFIGER

Capy No.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CCC 2r 20

PAGE

147 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 106

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

TO

3304

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.

MAY 1 5 1975

MICROFILMED

Director

Federal Bureau-ó1 Investigatio

Attention:

Hi. Jit. Papich

Deputy Dirsctor (Plana)

13 - 25 Morenoes 1963

27/10063

DOD

87602

E19. 111 F

WE MEET. SEE!

HERE EEI (10)

201-3:5053

corvarded as Attachant A 131 regune of the ouser ed

1012361610td lon of valerly Madintrovict ZosTINY and 1722 Call

TeeInsIst as reported by a reiable sourco 11 Maxico City.

no. Mille:

1953 (500 CUCI-3/173, 825,

25 November 1563).

nare bein

ellad with XOsTIsy to Northern lexico during the early part

cf September 1963.

Scarce reportad that duriag the period

in Crateri

under review the observed activitien a lostY and AlzIY

appeared to be soranl, as did the activities o the entire

Soviet Dabasey conplent.

Forsarded as Attachment 3 19 a jesue of telepbuza

calls placed to and iron the soviat Mbasay on the altarnoon

os 22 Novender.

Analyntalaf calls nade the corning of

32 November and the mening and aitersóon of 23 Novencer re

realed no pertinent in

Technical survatIN

man of the hones of several know

and suspected Soviet intalligence officars produced no perti-

nent intonation.

Forwarded as Attaciment C is a liat identlizing the

Sovieta whose nanes appear 1a Attachments A and B.

Because of the extreme sensitivity of the encloaed

Intoration, ve urge that the source data and the inforaation

be given the most secure handling ponsiblo.

This Information

13 for background une only and may not be dissenlasted witbout

permission from this Agency.

RECORD COPY

Document Numbor 18.7-622

for FOlA: Reyiew on APR 1975

C3CJ-3/773,881

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED CN 24 MAY 1975

_IMPOET CL BY 61320

SECRET

NO FOREIGH DISSEM

27 fev 63

201-289245

C002/21

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

148 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 107

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

NO FOREION DISSEN

2-

i/3/liexico/Terry Hard:ard

Distribution:

ОГіб.

1 - Addressee

1 - 1I (201-299248)

CIALIA

= С*/L2A

CI/SIG

F- SR/CI

2= /exico

7B/R

27 Noveaber 1963

BASICS:

MET-7050 (IN 57292)

H8X7-7038

S8X-7036

(IN 67253)

MEXI-7034

(IN-67237)

317X7-7032

(1167231)

(IN- 67198)

NO PROJECT

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6002/22

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

149 3212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 108

1,3-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EncloBure A

18 November

0857 - Alferiev entory Embassy alone (Departure not noted)

1558 - 50st1k08 enters 1one

2828 - sortion departs alone

1556

Tostizoy enters alone

1711

Tost loy departs alone

1759 - scatizon entera alone

19 November

1210 - Alforier enters Embassy alone

1312 - Alferley departs with Garmaschey

1352 - Alerten and Carnancher retura

1415 - Kostitor departs alone

1333 - Alrestor enters alone

(potor departure not noted)

1633 - Jostson one s2000

20 November

No coverage

21 Novembes

0857 - Alferley enters Sabage Alth nito

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/23

PAGE

150

СОРУ

NO.

.212

---

## Page 109

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

89203T

NO FOREIGN DISSEL

-2

0915 - Kostikov enters alone

0317 - Alleriey departs alone

0949 - Alteriey enters alone

1133 - Rostikoy departs with Shubin

1206 - Alferley departa alone

1240 - Iostizon enters with Shubla

1310 - Sostikov departs

¡idar driven by IGB chautleur Salinia

1341 - Lostikov enters with Kalinin

2353 - Altertor enters alone

1427 - Sostikor departs alone

1630 - Rostikov enters alone

22 Navenbes

0853 - Alferier enters Lubissy alone

0904 - Hostikoy enters alone

1005 - Bostikov bas discussion with shubii

1016 • Hostikov departs with Sbubin

1028 - Kostitor enters with Shubin

1030 - Rostitor departs with

Wild and Shubis

1250 - Bostior, vile and Stabia return

1302-1312 - Kostison speaks in garden with Kazantser

2336 - Tostikoy departs with Shubin, Shpakerich, Turygds,

driven by Kalinin

1402 - Al1 above return

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C0C2: 24

PAGE

151

_ 0$212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 110

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREIAN MIRCHI

1102 - Ibstilor talkiny in garden with Alicriev, esdreyev,

nad FuryEln

1502 = Kostitor departs

1532 - 1230r107 Meter a de vata santly

1503

1517 -Älferter enterg alone

1539 - jostlion enters alone

23 November

1130 - Lostlkov speake with Kazantsey and Shubis

1133 - Tostikoy departs with Kazantsey and Stubln

1200 - Altezier enters alone

1240 - J0St130Y, Azantsey and Shubly enter

1410 - Fostlov plays VolleybalT With Yatsion, Sbubin,

Kazantsov, Porshinos, and seanor

1425 - Tostitor speaks)

*gwaubin and Slavnov

1120 - Kostikov departs with Shubin and Romarchenko

1440 - Alteriev departs alone

24 November

1100 • Alleriev enters Embassy alone

1307 - Kosticoy enters wiShit and Saubda

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6002. 25

PAGE

152 •г212

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 111

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FORESEN DISSEM

1326 - Allerley departs with-Shengaler

1110 - Allerley entery with Sirengaler

1410 - Alerton Sostlov, Kaznataey and i undentlfied

sorset realtors depart (a'a cas)

SECRET

NO FOREION DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/ 26

PAGE

153

. of 212

COPY.

NO.

---

## Page 112

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEURET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2nclssure 3

Au 32 Hovenber coveraga of Soviet imbassy zo.cal.

111 22 Movember coverage follows:

1230 - Caban Consul AlIrado Mirabal Diaz asks to speak

ults latskor.

Latter apparently unavailable and

Kostikom comes on 1lie with following conversstion

MIR: Did you recover the suitcase?

KOS: Jes

11B: Then 1t was arriving on the other trip.

KOS: Tes

wIR: I called to tell you the following, that regardin

that matter that we had talked about, to see 1f

we would spend sunday In Chacultepee

Fart because

ay wiie is preparing sone lood to eat there.

koS:

I's sorry but live just mde plans for another

trip and I's leaving this very day..

So please

forgive me for not belog able to go vith you.

BIR;

I'd like to talk to Pavel Tatsiay.

SOS:

wait a nine,

he'll come soy.

HIT:

If ha's busy l'1h Callin later; but Iº11 be

anatiable for they

next half bour at telophone

770. 11-3247°

KOS: 0.

1334 - Reporter requests statement. Unidentified Soviet

malo rofuses.

1323 - Lenale Inpiles to Kukbarenko thas the soviet Abbassador

ms sald to nare no statement.

1145 - Yugoslay Aubassador Viadov calls and speaks with Soviet

Ambassador Bazaror ly cassias.

Talk brioly about

assistinition tellin each other what they know, which

7409.

ChaE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002627

PAGE

154 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 113

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

NO FORCION DISSEN

appears to bo chly that thay dot iron the radio.

1550 -üntdentifled W98D advIsEs SVIetS 01 259238192+102.

1011 - Unidentified reporter ists fir Yasantser, advisod

that sarantser nutjin, will be back dorizy, 09301100.

1615

1652 - Unidentified lessle reporter fold soviet Imbassy not

vorilay today, saturday 25 funday.

1715 - Laporter calls for statonant. Hose siren.

- Izzastser calls his residence, personal call.

1711 - Raporter lold to call back bondsy.

1750 - Unidantsiled sale asis for leonor. Not 1n.

1735 • 260ve calls 2331n

• seportar told call baci sonday..

NO FORTION DISSEM

6002/28

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

155 0212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 114

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

NO FOREIGh DISSEM

ATTACILEIT C TO CSCI-3/173,881

1. Ivan GavIllOViCh ALFERIEV

- Fravia Correspondent

2. Talerty Vladialrovien KOSTICY - Attacho Consular Office

3. Aleksay Ivanovich CARTASCHEY - Consul

1. VItally Barisovica studi

~ Attache

• Chaufier.

6. Boris Afeie

JArOViCh RAZANISEY - CourselOr

7. Vladiair

Trasorich SPAEVICI - Jaird Secretary

8. Madinir Ivanovich AADRUlY - fIrst secretary

9. Madisir Vastiyovich TURYGIN - Thiid secratary

10. Pavel Antorovich YATSKOY

• Attache

11. Vladimir PORZAUNOY

.- Code Clerk

12. Gennadiy STROGANOV

• Radio Operator

13. Nikolay Fetrovich SuAVOY

-- - Code Cler

14 Vladimir SOMANCHENRO. -

- Secoad Secretary

15. Ley FedorOvica SElEICALEY

_Employee, Consercial

081103

16. Oleg HaisinovIch NICHPORNO - Tice Consul

17. Sorgey Semyonovich LUXHARSNIO - socond Secretary; sa

viet Inforation

B3L1628

18. Nikolay sergayovica IsONOY - Third Secretary

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

6002/ 25

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

156 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 115

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEBAST

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Inclusio 3

22 lorenior coverage of Joviet inbussy norsal.

Fal

22 dovesces coverage followan

1250 - Cuban Corsul Allrado Mrabal Diaz saks to speak

with Tataron.

Fourite no for arriving lato.

Did you reemer the suitcase?

113:

KOS: Yes

WIn: Thea 1t sas arclving on the otàer taig.

ROS: Tes

MIR:

I called to tell you the lollowing, that regarding

that inter tiat ve had talked abouò,

we would spend sunday la chapultedee

Par? because

My alle is sreparing some jord to eat tsers.

I'= sorry bat livo just sade plaza: 30r anotbe:

rin and I'n Janving this very dry

So please

jorgive se los not belez able to go 11ta you.

HIB;

ROS:

MIn:

Iºà like to tall to Pavel Tatason.

Wait a naute, be'1l sose son.

If ho's busy I'll call bin later, but 1'11 ke

avallaole for the nest half hour at telephone

00 11-2347.

ioS: 0. fo

1054 - suporter requests state

neaty talcentified Soviet

x01s 1217280.

That the soviet labastador

jas sald

1145 - Jugoslay Agosaados Taroy cally and speris with soviet

dabasaador lazar la fusalaa.

Tali sterly about

seriaainatlas tel

Mng each ottar what they kaon, which

SG23T

NO FOREION DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002r 30

PAGE

157

• 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 116

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SLUNET

NO FOREIGN DISSEMI

appears to be only what they got fron the radio.

1550 - Unidentified woman advises Soviets of assassination.

164 - Unidentifled reporter asks for kazantsev, advise

that Kazantsey not 1a, will be back Honday, 0930-1400.

1615 = Unidentified male asles for kusharenso, told he Isn't

1652 - Unidentified lenale reporter told Soviet Embassy not

working-today, Saturday or Sunday.

1716 - Reporter calls for statenent. Mone given.

- Kazantsey calls his residence, personal call.

1744 - Reporter told to call back Monday.

1750 • Unidentified mle asks for Leonov.

Not in.

1755 - above calls again

- Reporter told call back Honday.

aSeReT .

NO FOREIGN BISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/31

PAGE

158 • 212

COPY. NO.

---

## Page 117

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STTACEIZIT C TO CSCI3/773, 361

1. Ivan CavrtlONich ALSZ313Y

-Prayds Correspondent

2. Faleriy Tladintrovich KOSTIROY - Attacbo Cossular Osfice

3. Aldzses IvaDOViCh GARZASCaSY

•.Cor841

1. Tstazfy Sorizonteh SuiBta

- Attache

S. Suoty Dal lypodda ENITIa

• Chan?lour

S. Boria Mlalsandrorich SiZAITSSY - Courselos

7. Madialr Irazovich SEPAiTICA - Thlri Secretary

8. MladialI ITanOviCh ATRETLY - F1rat Sacretasy

9. Madia1 Vasilyouich TUYGIA - Third Sacratary

20. Pavel satonovich YATSROY

• Attaea

11. Vadtats PORSHUTOY

- Cods Clerk

13. Genzadly STROGAYCY

- Badto Operator

.r.l

13. 11k01AY PEtTOVICA SISV30Y

- códe clesis

IS. MadLaiI BCHASCHSEISO

- Second Secratasy

15. Las Pedoronica Sat

CAMEY

_ Iaployes, Cosmercial

Orftce

16. O1eg Hazstaovich NECIIEOREMSO

15. sergey seyoaarich susorou s 1ico Conaul

second Secretary; So

net Infooeatzor

18. ElkOlay SorgeyouiCh LRONOV

20210230

- Taird Secretary

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/ 32

PAGE

COPY

NO.

159 • 212

---

## Page 118

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

WARNIE MONKE

Sa:

10o:0W-3161

23 JU...

MEMORANDUN FOR: MI. J. i00 Ranki

General Counsel

President'e Commission on tia

Assasalnation of Preolden: Kennedy

SUBJECT!

Wallet

do Mi. James J1. Ilobelar of your staff phoned me last

Erley and requested tar: CIA furnish tie Commiasion with an

aflaavis repecting the orginand clicumstancos of a photograph

of an ua nowa Individuat which was furniuhed by this Agency to

the Federal 'Bureau offavestigation on Novosaber 22, 1963.

I am forwarding an affidavit with tale memorandum

which I trust will satisly your neces. Decause of to externo

jonnizivity of the sourca lavolved, I hava roiralaad froma acding

jurthar detalla.

Che Contral Intelligance Agoney recommenas tit

tola motograph not be reproduced in the Commission's roport,

because it would jeopardise a moat confidential and productiva

oporation. In addition, it could be embarrassing to to ci

vidual Involved who as far as tula Agoncy la aware, hau no

connection with, ine Harvey Onwald or the assassination of.

President Kennedy.

4. Ta vlaw of the above, a penaltivity indicator had been

affixed to this commsnication.

Richard Helme

Daputy Diractor for Plana

Altachment = 2/s

SECRET

SENSIT. :

M.:

PLACES AND

118:7.170

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/33

PAGE

160

COPY NO.

of 212

---

## Page 119

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEENET

Distrlbution:

Org & 1 « Addressoe

2 - DDP

1 - CI/R&A/Oswald 20b

1 = GI/R&A/Dooley

1 - WH/Walttos

PROCASiUL

- W22 July 1964.

SERACT

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

00L 21 34

PASE 161 0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 120

13-00000

REPKODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

EYES ONLY

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/R&A

SUBJECT:

Documents Available in OSWALD's 201 File

1. A machine Irsting of documents officially recorded as being

in OSWALD's 201 file was requested and is attached. The actual

machine work of this type yas begun in 1963, but a few items of previous

dates were also recorded.

2. A comparison of the documents physically available in the

201 file and those recorded as being in the 201 file has shown that 37

documents which should be in the 201 file are not available in it. This

total is made up of:

2 dispatches

7 memoranda from the FBI

1 CSCI

2 State Department documents

25 cables.

3. Machine inquiries for the location uf these documents have

not been made.

keep

sourn in 5 63-810

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

ant tit

the

Oswa

1201

SECRET

• EYES ONLY

C062/35

PAGE

162

COPY

NO.

212

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

of

---

## Page 121

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Rentinis.

williens

Ko do Lee Ranicir

ils?

111:00

12/3/64

Rockin's 86-

Hould you please be good enough to telem

phone me on wondry, 9 larch, Ex which time I

assume your will have had an opportunity to

cancer an

thia teria?®

(Signci) stairlas

Richard ReIns

achment

6 March I96l

1. 7:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1002036

PAGE

163 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 122

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

4.1224

XAAZ-22595

aMar 6.4

ATT.

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI. J. Lee Ranki:

SUBJECT:

"Infontation in ClA's Possession

learning Lee Harvey OSwAL

Prior to Noveraber 22, 1363 a:

to Darren Cimmies

This refers to your letter a February 12,

196$

addressed to the Director of Central Intelligence which cas

bees passed to me for reply.

2. Paragrapa three of your letter requested the Agency

to supply the Commission with a report on information in the

Agency's possession regarding Lee Harvey COWAID prior to

¿'overbe, 22, 1963. The request was predicated upon the

footsote on page tro of CIA's report to the Commission dated

31 January 196%, entitled: "Information Developed by CIs on

the Activity ai Lee Harvey OSVALD is Mexico City, 28 Sea

terzber - 3 Octobes 1963%

These is attached an exact reproduction of the

Agencys efficial dossier on Lee Hasvey OSTALD begiani=

with the opening sheet dated 9 December 1960. The estice

dossier carries the security classification of Secret az

consists of thirty documents arranged in chronological order.

On the basis of clearances froz the Federal Bureau of

Irvestigation, the Department of State, the Department of

Navy, and the Immigration and Naturalization Servicen to

were queried by us after the receift of your letter, weare

able to ma'se available exact copies of all materials la the

file up to early Cetober 1963.. These include:

Document Number

590-2521

for EDIA Revi

ew on

JUN 1376

33, 00PT

Transmitteel

20-299245

6 Mailt

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002637

PAGE

164 01212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 123

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

a. Seven docents received from the Fedaral

Bureau of Investigation

bo-Pen documenta received from the Department

of state.

Ina documents received from the Department

One document (a name checi request) for the

Immigration add Naturalization Service.

e. Four newspaper clippings.

fo Five internal CIA notes.

&. CIA repost datod 3r randasy 1964 to the Commission

which covers all suotantive develorments alacting GIA

in the seatter a lee farvey OSiALD iron l Cetober to

22 November 1963. The report indicated the disseminations

af information developed by ClA that were zade to other

Federal agencies during that period. This items, as was

pristed out at the time, is particularly sensitive asd bears

appropriate senditivity isdicators.

You will note that almoat all of the docuseuts carry

markinga required for CIA's intornal records processing. A

few of the papers contaired the rases di our employees or

identifications of specific organizational components. Vie have

taken the liberty of blocking out those items as they do not bear

on the substance of the Commission's request.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment

Original & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP Subject

1 - C/CI/R&

1 - DDP Chroner COFY 1 - C/WH/3

1 • C/CI

1 • 201-289248

CI:RGRocca:de /7468/4 March 1964 Inventory of documents contained

in file attached for all but addressee)

201-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

165 • 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 124

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

inventory of Documents Contained in OSWALD Dossier Forwarde

to the Commissior

• State State Telegram Vor Octoder October 31, (Confidential) (Confidential)

•~/2. Newspaper Article from the Washington Post, November 1, 1959

* Yv3. CI/I5ÑV Iaternal Note dated 2 November 1959 (oral F'BI name

Ortod réquest) and Na seply dated 1 Novamber 1959 (Coalidential)

Foreige Service Despateh 234, November Z, 1959 (Coafidentialy

• I J5, State Telegram 1358, November 9, 1959 (Contidestial)

•n 1b. State Telegram 1448, November 9, 1959 (Confidential)

" A. Newspaper Clipping for Washington Post, November 16, 1959

+ 18, Newspaper Clipping from Evening Star, November 26, 1959

+ 0% DBS 49478, 25 vay 1960 (Confidential)

* 230. Internal CIA Biographic Profile dated circa May 1960 (Confidential)

* 11, Letter from the Department a State (Cumming) to DDP (Biasell)

dated October 25, 1960 (DD/P 0-5679 - Secret)

Induded interion

*12.

DDE Redntesaranted 21 November 1960 (DD/P 0-6003 -

Secret)

Internal CIA Request for Opening of 201 flle, 9 December 1960

(Secret)

à.14, State Memorandum of Conversation dated January 26, 1961 SOUO) /

$ 115.

State lastruction A-273, April 13, 1961 (OUO)

~ 16.

Foreign Service Deapatch 806, May 26, 1961 (OUO)

Foreign Service Despatch 29, July 11, 1961 (OUO) V

18. DFB 82181, July 13, 1961 (Confidential) -

ATT. I t6: XAAZ- 22595

GS COPY

201-259248

•CURE 39

PAGE

166

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0: 212

---

## Page 125

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

X442-22575

6 Man 64

119. Internal CIA Memojior the Record, 28 September 1061 (Secret)

* 120. Fareign Service Deapatch 317, October 12, 1961 (OUO)

MUNS Name Check Reguest, December 5, 1961

122.

Nary Message 20197/RB/3, 3 March 1962 (Confidential)

¿ 123. DNA 1524, 26 April 1962

~ 124. Newspaper Clipping froes Washiagton Post, June 9, 1962.

1: +25. DBA 20883, September 7, 1962 (Confidential)

÷26. DBA 51407, 10 September 1963

in 27. DBA 52355, 24 Septezabes 1963-tole ein i.

de? Nosember: 1969* done inodei.

28. DBA 55715 (i ad dear) November 7, 1963*

• 129 DBA 55777, November: 8g 1963

• 130. CIA Summary Report on Activities af OSWALD 1a Mexico City,

dated 31 January 1964

&S GOPY

-2-

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

J002040

PAGE

167 03212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 126

13:00000

REPRODUCTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PROBLED

('RIG:

Erich W. Isenstead:br

zit

ROUTING

UNIT L

C/EE/G

EATE

7858

E NO INDEX

RYBAT SECRET

2

É tar 1964

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

6

& JaN 64

19 452

BERLIN

FROM:

DiRECTOR

FRANKFURT

CONF:

DEFERE CENT

R ROUTINE

INFO :

OGI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI,C/CI/SI,. VR

TO

BRLN

INFO

FRAN

CITE DIR

92725

FELDIT GIFLOOR

RC: BRIN 5267 (IN 90848)

IN VIEW REGGAB CONNECTION MARINA OSWALD HEADQUARTERS

DOES NOT DESIRE LONG-RANGE OPS INVOLVEMENT SUGGESTED PARAGRAPH

3 REF.

Jocument Number

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *Reggab has number complex financial, documents and

persoral problems which leading him consider return to Moscow for further

study in cinematographic institute. Believe he would definitely return if

encouraged by us and that he susceptible to recruitment as KUBARK agent

duting Moscow sojourn and possibly as long range asset in Morgeco,

RECORDS OFFICEE STAUP

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON.

25 MAY 197

456-771

CS COPyauthorised:

IMPDET CL BY 0/32.08

'cs FOlA Reylay on

MAY 2976

D-200-5-41

Sigred:

Max

R.0. #1 - last

Note:

C/1+707-289248

It destruction, cite

Feasons and cograinate

DC/CI

le apropriate.

ADDE

RELEASING OFFICER

TING OFFICERS

CROUP!

Escluded tram automatic

Gownerating and

declassification

BYBAT SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

0002/41

168 0212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 127

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

XAAZ-226C1

MENORANDUM E OR: MI. J. Leo Rancin

SUBIECI:

•Resorts on Activities anà Iravei

Masiba filalavza CSHALD as TransiTedd

to biairan Cimmissica

1. Refereace in maè to the second paragrapa of your

mendigadum dated 12 February 1964, and the second para-

graph of your memoraadur of 16 Marca 1964, relative ia

dissemisationa bi laformation made by JIA to the Secret

Servica,

20

Immediately aiter the assassination of Presideat

Kennedy Cid undertook to assemble through its statioes in

Brose all available dats, including information in the illes

of other governments and intelligence services, on the

taveis and activities a L03 Harvey OSwALD and Marisa

Nikolevas OSWALD, This information, as it vas collected,

was made available to the Fhite House, the Departzent.of

State and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Copiea o

these messages were also sent to the Secret Service.

3. Attached to this nemorandum are exact copiea of

two teletyped messages relative to the travels asd activities

of the CSWALD. (Attachmerts A and B). Paragrapas g asd b

di Attachment C are paraphrased. In Attachmen 6, OUT

Teletype No. 85715, are found references to two other tele-

typed messages (OUT No. 85182 and OUI No. 85665) which

describe one Richard Tharas GISON, a negro jourtalist

for FOlA Roview on

JUN 1976

Dooumont Number

627-82

IS GOT RESTRICTED TO CI/RIA

B 201743808

31-MAR 196Y

= ATTS. Hh

201-251245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/42

PAGE

169

0212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 128

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

now residing in Switzerlard who has been active in tha Fair

Flay for Cuba Committee. Paraphrasas of No. 35132 azd

No. 85665 are included aa ittagaaata D asd i. access to

origiral texts a paraphrased iams will be provided whas

nerbers of your stall visit sangley. The information on

which paragraphs g and h of Attachmeat & are based was

received at CLA Headguarter's on/27 November and dissarai-

sated on 28 Noverber.

his memorandun ard the attachments contai

ery sensitive ingration which has a direct bearing o

sources and methods. An appropriate gensitivity indicator

has therefore been affixed.

Richard Helms

Deguty Director for laag

Attachments

as stated

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee w/atts^

1 - DDP Chrono w/atts)

- DDP subject w/atts

X-Ms. Rocca w latts

1 - C/CI/SiG W/attsi

1 - C/WH/5 w/atts

1 = 201-

GI/R&A/TRHall/6664/26 March 1964

0S 0077

201-29÷245

6002/43

PAGE

170

. of 212

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 129

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment A

Ieletype message, OUT No. 36702, dated 4 Dacezaber 1$53,

filed at 1411 hours, to the White Fiouge, the Departzent of

State and tie federal Bureau of Investigatios, with copy to the

Secret Service

ATT. :

SUBJECT: Ice Harvey OSWALD

Recorda of the foreigners recorda office of the Geripas

Federal Reprolic la Gologpe, Germany, show that Marine

Nisolayevna Fusakoya CSWALD crossed West Germany Sor

East Germany to Holland on 3 Juza 1962.. She traveled by Fall,

crueisg into West Germasy al Fielmstedt on 3 June aul cater

ing follad by rail at the Bentheiss crossing point. Sha had

Viest German visa 694/62 issued at the West Gerruny Embassy

in Moscow. She listed her lizal destination as U.S.A. Corsment:

This confirms information from the U.S. Embassy la Moscow

to tke efiect that the COWALD family traveled from Aloucow to

• Rotterdam by rail aroux 3 June 1963. Helmatedt and Benteiz

are sa the main rall routà frora jussla to Rotterdar, While

Lee OSWALD himself and theis infant daughter ast not recorded

in German records this is probably because little attection is

pail to U.S. citizens and to infants in keeping travel records

11944

63 0077

XAAZ-226O

291-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002r44

PAGE

171 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 130

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment B

Icletype message, OUT No. 87520, dated ó December 1963,

filed at 1529 bours, to the lihite House, the Depaztraent ai

Stao and the federal Bureau of Investigation, vit' copy to the

Secret Service.

SUBJECI: LES FAROY OSALO

Reference le madelto oir OUT telegram No. 36732 of

«December 1563 Which gave inforisation on the travel af

MarinajOSHALD (and presusably alas 10e Fiarvey OSWALI

and boir daugiter) acroes " ss: Gerrpauy on their return

froz the Soviet Unios, Information zom available fo or Butes

authoritica seems to corfixin this. On 3 Juna 1952 ore

M. OSKAID, listed as a male Russian cities, erderse The

Netherlands by train at the Oldenzaal border poist.

Commest: I is believed that the listing of this person

as a mele instead of ferrale was just an ersos of lie border

afilciala. Note that Odetusal is opposite Sentsoin, ine

German border paist where Marina OSlAID loft Gert

CS G377

31-162tR-1964

201-289245

ATT. 2t XAAZ-22401)

0002/45

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

172 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 131

13-00.000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment C

5P

Teletype sessage No. 85715, dated 29 November 1963, filed

at 13:0 hours, to the l hite House, the Departroast of State asi

che Foderal Bueau of Investigation, wits copy to the Secret

Service.

ATT. 3

te.

SUBJECT: Iraval of Les jUvey OSTALD

Io The following information has beez gathered from

reliabla sources regarding toe travel of Ice Harvey CSWALD

and die, wita:

do 2 October 1959: Accordisg ta offtcial

British travel records 05XA iD arried a

Soutkarpton this date claiming on his lascing card

tiat be bad no fixed address but planed to revair

in the United Kingdar on week for vacation before

going on to "gome school"' in Switzurland. (acad-

quarters comment: Frobasly referring to the

Albert Schwitzer College in Switzerland with which

he is knows to bave bees in correspondence.)

Do 10 October 1959: According to the same

official British travel records CSWALD left Lordon

this date by air for Helsinki

201.257248

63 GОP/

XAAZ. 72661

31-11AR-1964

GOL2/46

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

173 • 212

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 132

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

c. October 1959: Stockaains sewspaper, Dagers

Ñräcter, of 25 November 1753 states Lee STALi)

passed through Sweden during Cetober 1957. Article

¿aloo adda tRationVALI was unarccessful in outalaing

Madds Use in bolsisti which resulted in bie

returzing to Stockboln. Two days after be arrived in?

Stockholm OSWALD traveled directly to Moscow,

Conciuding sertence di article states 'This fodicates

that the Rasalan Embassy (Stockhoizo)EVe Lass a visa, "

According to a reliablo source there

no reaged

that there was any seguest for a USSB visa processed

through norsal charnela for CSWALD at any iite

during 1959, and sorce indicated it was dificult to

explain how OSWALD migit have receival his visa in

two days without going through normal chasels. The

onig conciasion waich can be drawn is that OSWALD

must have received his visa direcily from tibe Soviet

Embaasy in Stociholza which occasionally is done in

special caaes.

but the source had so evidence to corfiry

this assurption

0002147

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

174 0212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 133

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

7w:w.3

¿. 10 to 15 Cetober 1957: According to a very :

reliable but extremely sonsitive source CS:/ALD stayed

at the Torni Hotel is clainsi from 10 to 1l Octsber and

219)

sa moved to the klaus Kurti Hotal whero 'de stayed

until 15 betcess, apparently waiting for a visa to bo

issued him by the Soviet Consulato in Helsinic. Fia

traveled to the USSR by traiz, crossing at Vairittala on

15 October.

e. 13 May 1962: According to a Dutch afficial

source, the Ditch Chargo i1 Moscow issued a transit.

ViJa tO OSWALD's Wile on 13 Nay 1962, Their gecorda

Leveal bie wife was burn an 17 July 15f

lestead of

19 Jaly 1941 and in Severodvise' instead of Miosk.

There is no record of ber having actually transited

The Nether laads.

1. 1962: Citicial British secada do not reflect

that CSWALD returned to the United States from the

ussa through the latted Kingdom, However, i1 30

were merely tranniting, it would not tave been

necessary for hirs to fill out a landing card, and

thereiore there would be no record of his travel in

the official traffic indes.

- 3-

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002648

PACE

COFY

NO •

175 • 212

---

## Page 134

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

go 1963: According to an extremely sensitive and

reliable source, on 23 November Maria SNETHLAGE,

head of the l' erigsoup laformatio Cuba" (Verigeous.

Infanation Cuba), tall sa enaployes al the cuban

"that It. LET is Favasa, who did the murder", Sho

described him as a maz ol violence asd entirely full si

hate and indicated that it was possible that this man bad

been mirused by a group. She said sha bad writen to

'GISSON" about the bad impresaion sha had had of ebia

LES, (Headguasters corament: Please refer to our

teletype Nos. 85132 add 35665 for aciditional information

on GESON.) Lates, SNETALAGI toid Cast=o Gubara

la The Hague that "MI. LiE of the Fair Play for Cuza

Committee: had been slandered and that it was anothe

person named Loe OSWALD who had done it.

SNSTHLAGE

seemed to be glad to have heard this 'cortect" versica.

(Headguarter a comment: Dir. LEts may be idantieal with

Viscert Theodere L82 who replaced Richard CISCN as

Head of the Fai: Play for Cuba Committee.)

0002143

PAGE 176 0 212

COPY

NO.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 135

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Do According to reliable the

was ia Cuba la Jamary 1963, and according to an aficial

Dutch source, she again traveled to Cuba for the May Day

colobrationa Vin 1983.

63 0G./

261-259245

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

G002/50

PAGE 177 0212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 136

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attachment D

Teletype No. 85132, dated 22 November 1963, illed at 1732 hours,

to the White House, the Department of State and the Lederal

Bureau of Investigation, with copy to the Sacret Service, (paraporase)

SUSJICTE Leo Harvey OSTALD

122910203.

1o Is conversation wish a close friend la Barn,

Switzerlaad, on 23 Noverber 1963, Richard Thomas CISSON.

remarised that OSWALD iS 'One DE U8', OSHALD aId GISSCN

had corresponded two years previously, abd OSWALD lad

Joined the Committee. (Comment: Refesence is presumably

to the Fair Play for Cuba Camitso,! GISON added that ho

bad destroyed all his letters from OSWAID. OSHAID is

crazy, GIBSON then remarsed that he la kappy that he was

not in Neutant. He felt sorry for "IFS" in New York ard

2. The isormation given above was supplied by an

extremely sensitive source who is urally reliable.

3. According to other information that was availzole,

Richard Thomas GIBSON, born 13 May 1931 in Los Angeles,

California, is a segro jourralist who has begn active in tha

83 CON

31-117R-1564

ATT. 4 To. XAAZ: 226C!

20:.2592+8

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002/51

PAGE

178 01 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 137

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Tair Flay dor Eusa Comister siapa 1260.

Fe has resided

since April 1263 at Lausano, Eniserlas. la tia laños

coustry 81330M partieraro ta tãe pusticativa di 12

Revolution Afries

201-259245

-2=

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002652

PAGE

179 •s 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 138

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Attacisent E

Teletype message, OUT No. 35665, 23 November 1953, filed

at 1826 hours, to the White Housa, the Departmert of Stata asd

the Federal Sureau of Investigarios, with copy to the Secret

Service, (paraphrased)

1o

Our gestion ta The fague has reported that 0a

23 November 1963, a local Gastroite named Maria SNETHLAGE

tald Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS a tie Gubaa I=bassy in

The Fague that sha knew the "PiT. LDI" (sic) who murdered

"resident Kennedy, Sha described ''LIE" as a man fuil di hate

and violence, and speculated that he lad been "misused by a

Foug". She said she had tales to CISSON (undoubtedly

Stickard GIBSON,

DS, citizen ai Lausanne, Switzerland, born

13 May 1935, a CastO S0,

Puttier, who had visited Ibe

Netherlaads recently and had been in contact beth witk the

Soviet Ambassador and the Cuban Saabassy)

2. Later that sare day Maria INITHLAGE told Secretary

SANTOS that "HI. LUE of the fair Play for Cuba Committee"

jad been slandered. Tho a9939 in had been another per 30h,

LEO OSWALD. SNITFLAGE le reported to have been in Cuba

in Jamary and again in May 1963.

63. 6027

31-1141-1961

201-259245

AT.T: 5 t: XAAZ. - 22601

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002. 53

PAGE

180

COPY

NO.

02 212

---

## Page 139

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3. According to Dutch authorities oz 7 Noverzzer 1963,

in ralking about attacks by Cuban I ciugees against t'as Jubas

maiziand, SANTOS bad replied 'just wait aod you will see what

we can do I will happea sooz,'" Asised to be more preciss.

to sura a pro-coalso brother ia the U.5es,

4o a very sensitive source reports that altoz his cozyer.

sations with SNETHLAGE, SANICS waavery angry because she

had coutacted him•

- 2-

201-25÷248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/54

PiGs 181 • 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 140

13-00000

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

WARNING NOTICF

SOURCES A.

s2/8.4-2847.

XAAZ- 17620

MENORANDUM FOR: ME.J. Lea Rosin

Gameral Counsel

Preslian Carnalasios s the

Assesanition of Fresidamt Kaamady

ABogationa Rogerding Intalligence Essini:

school la mina, USE

as Transmitteel

Warren

Commission

Magations ai the cristence of a Soviet 11=lliguazo and/or

sapongà training school in Milani, Gs53, bave come to tha

estantion of sau Agaucy isera pra3s reviers, Also, Sara hos

MAI MIN HINT ION 1 MINDer SI 4502532

MI. Dulles, very racenly on this dutail. lenty Dals coportanity

to lamisis to the Commission tse iniormation jica she garay

bas on abis topie.

== ¡ careini rivlam of Sui flea tas prodecad no haza

Information regarding Sorlat intalliganca or sabotage training in

Minas sinca 1947. Cha lom of isformatica aspplias by a cortes

Jaleesos in 1119 repordos the srictuace, as 011947, of an intelligence

tratzing school is Minas. No addittonal dotalla, boeror, were

arailable rogariday ls curriculam or location in Missk, lafonastiar

or corroborited the continued aristares of the installatios.

3o "nether reference in CI: fles to trataing la Minsk rolazes

to th exirtence of a sabotago sciano shica inctioned la Mini antil

the Corman attack on the sovict tinion in 1941, Sior vica the achool

was morai to Lentegrad.

IS FIGHTIO GOA CE

200: 3

xmlpe.

5/ Jun 64

SECRET!

fa. FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

Document Numbor

126-314

-201-289748

2005

4/

WARNING NOTICE

CRule 1

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AVOIED

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002r55

PAGE

182 01 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 141

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SEBRET

passcasion of this Agaucy ruleteng to nelligenca sai eatoraga

ester to complete ls recoris. Besquag si tha sansitina soare

Lavolved, li Sus beda necessary 2o ago a sensitivity Mileator

Richard Hete

Eepssy Dircetos {0r Plaza

Distzibative:

Original dI-Maae

2 • DOP

1 - 38/01/R

1 - 9/01/515

1• 0l/R&/201

Osiginasad S33 C1/R8A/TRRall:a8/06ó4, $ June 1964)

SEGMET

20-273246

2a6- 15

itt

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOIRCES AND

MET::006 :

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CC62456

PAGE

183 01212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 142

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

16 December

1963

M2sato91

325-1: 7902

318357

al dormend 1s

ED ERNESTO DE DCA

en Fantoi 10109 174

an tan the sestien

30172235

Laser Ma M

512/3/32 bletane

protrationi

1e Destite

Tlel+1+9-17

1 12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6062/57

184 of: 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 143

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

CSC7-3/779,135

1axi$63

TO

:

Director

Federal Burenz of Investigation

Attention: HI. B. I. Papich

FICH

Deputy Directoo (Alas)

SUBJECT: POLES DISABI Cometaion the kennedy Assoastsation

Atreched for yow peril are the written coneuts of KEa

detecto (Pete, DiXIABI on sone aspects of the assassination ol

Previdentjeleim In Karmedy. As jou Inor, DEPYABI defected fro

the 103 bout (ter jars ago, und bla peracal kamledge is not

2y to date, but hd has stayed in touch vith Sorlet Intelligence

devalaments to tha best of his ability. Ma comerts on hor

Lee CEVAID end his wife must have been haniled by Soriet tatall-

Igence authorities shile they vere inside the Soriet Unlen are

particularly Interesting and his suggestions for the questioning

of lios. Jains CaNALD are equally provocaLive.

2-

He have decided to pase on his views without editing.

od this Agency doen not speeffleally endorse his conclusiod

we recommendaticas.

CSCI-3/779,135

Enclosures: For paragragh 1

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON_9,5 MAY 19,76

- IMPOET CL BrO/adOL

C/wH/3/J-M.Thltten: cmy

Distribution:

Orlg. & 1 - Addressee

- RI

CT/LIA

CI/R&A

CI/SIG

2

C/WH/3

- WE/R

12 December 1963

BASIC:

Hone

NO PROJECT

Document Number.

413-76A

MAY 1976

for FOlA Review on.

16 DEi 63

dog"

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/58

185 •г 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 144

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SUE 1202:

PEter DORYABI's Comerts des I

l. Le shoula understand that ay cements indes follow are

ast bared solary on the theats that CoNid sas necifically

diapatebed to under cur President. Whe yary saal possibility

also eats that SuAL una sent bese en mot

That did the use hare to gain by ktlling the

recallsh the e

Icy range credits to the list. Entersion el lons range cretita

1s vital to the ussa at this junetare.

2. Inta leods in into tbe sout pressia problem vitat

the bei

The best pensatently underates the extert of tire

Soviet Internal, situation. It ves my predietion that at 3 revzli

of the alsongement ol the 1963 barvest and the CLICOi argumenta

of the commist party of the ussa. bur lanitenis dest tha

elIoctively diverts the Sorlets' ettentica tros thes Internal

FOblem I 4021NS I

In the Cuben altunion ary USA cr Cuna epatilate

erttons againet Chan 7111 net he talated by the fact that these

£05 & LOng t1

to tiest of the CHICORE".

25072T

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/59

PACE

COFT NO.

186 • 212

---

## Page 145

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

e. ConciTably say oi President IBuy's placnad

anticos to get even un tia iith the soviets duing the nie

¿loctica yeso ara tins sabotaged by the Preaident's surder.

I. Ta sovieta dorioualy understoal that the death

cl Prestiant Muttial noula rault 1n the eneryance of DeCAULES

as a strong leutera InDãRo. DeGAulIa ol course saya "what's

soad for france is net Locessarlly bed for the les. "

8- Te destà of President LESISlY remoros a populis

disert and the luming of the arta under the lomants. Noe

probien of the fatallectants in the l133 ahoald not le interasted

ta Lest of bants icio intera mobless. la must recall

tras beguing ba tito, Itellaciala boye providen the leperiaa

for revalutton in the losa and tbay currise one di tha sbrea

ho It the Ussa ben any emiltious ains in senlplating

U. E subito ondadon tanto mor e Fresident Mailispy sauli gerve

to espostate the present differenoes between tha radioal loît

and right in Aranica in faci tua lsal propaganãa meniso beyo

to ray the muniar vas comitied by the radical tight as soca es

tho dend sas done and berare eSilio vas caytured.

5h15 splendic di stee terror coula ba incorpratel 8s a varis

to ansia's oss altleens, a the Soriet Intelligene services

have suffezed sene tory real terraea recently vith Paikoyaki,

corIsti's defection, their lecintou eupulaios fiun the Congo,

etc. I hare long spedtetel thet tra loca rould taze soma igastie

action tu tett the reped erosion of 2is:5 security:

Con we briany vien the (SNALD cperatica as a marted

1n0s

ongration to 1113 tbe Presidenti Abat dre the ausect1a1

enta?

9977021221503907492

he value that tha kis attacbe

the 1s5n Lagen i111, dega

to such ou the spot ascensment.

itatorie 11, 50

Hovever?,

ho les

properly bnord that

VErasted

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1662650

PAGE

187 01212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 146

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

- 3=

mated by a soriet Illagal al the HMß 15th Iopartunt. Sticiali

a osestials - It ras 3 foal plim that dld suecoe

CANALD ald escape Inca tha boat butting.

do Ba 2id got to a tonatas unica could baa been bas

palat of contact tita his Illegal case articer.

Certainly ve

Inar the das'a Demenust for using thorters for mating alacas.

819 Fartte

Beo the folloing

a. MEt had accesa to the palles stacion. Leperta

say he persually beer post palloses.

B. Ee successially allenced OSWAlD.

C. EUsY remains silent sed his eover is holding up.

do La lan a good logana of temporary insandty.

o. Ea has a seaschablo chasce to escape the lentà sentena

The moderaigned alght be better qualified to coment en

to CEMAlD arpotts of this ecoe 11 m kney the fallowing about

did be go to lesson?"

aho decided to gor al his on; tast 15, ba udo this declatos

o, better I1te withort houring that the Soviet Taios really 13.

12323

Fe possibly yas 1000ing Ior

Secan, at OStAL's discharge as s rasesirable

Iron the larines, he fami binsel? in a diffical al sayioeut

situation: 1ò 1t pastole that in this situation he vas noticed

Dy a spotter darneriter for the plegals or seas other depart

mut end uns considered an a poasible condidate fos use 0s

Incorrect

SEGRET

dischapel

letecte

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002/61

PAGE

COPY

NO.

188 •s 212

---

## Page 147

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

enti =

IECTIES41ET

The 1oll Inlaretion aboxt CarNlD wey sent to llosooi,

anl on icsconls order pa lnmostigatica ol CSLAD ves nado and

ibero tollorel'a deciaion to "tevite' hin to 50rzon, U3j0g t

ar? "INVISO, te UonLaad 290 in minA GuEt Uas agento e

recrultors thaaug conmatiom -lta-Ga77, but-dthot

mara, learatng nore about the Sortet lalon aoû roceirtag is

structioos ior fture epertiml rtbritler ote.

mannt lor poro thet the sorieta zeyer fry a visa

vithart zatiat an

tarestientton oe the persoa raidios tha

anTaa

bare to mis oe nu ivestiasio oe tea fallurtry

Tarm did CSHAl) IIrst begta to egcens his wish

to so t0 tihe Sortet Doêcais

certy tia, nã oi ma dla ta talo i tie a soaraet, nt taas

contanta md his cyplleetion?

C.

I, then mi tiroh vn dIA CETATO sst 219

Saiet Tisel

à. Eor long dia 1t taiso Iur biz 10 gat tia visai

E. TÃO DErSESAITY yIVO tLe VlIs tO CSTAIDI lE 30at

Inow 1I the pêrou un tEa

az uno taraT Ber psyal) 33a a

H3 24T

Io thein cnl bow did CSUAlD trayel to tas Ussa (alr,

seas ibrough stich comtrles; in staich comtries, lí sny, aia

be ma'e stops; hor long were sucis stopa)?

In anvance that be las going anil ino lneu that he bad gcne:

intier, brocher, reletivea, Mlends, peigabors, gial frienis,

boy fulenda, old buldion, etei Fo nhim alà CSNALD say gOOLF

beroro ha lott tor the usai peracrally ar by talepiers, Dy

22011?

Did no ever sol aromne sny questions on trveiina to toe

LS52?

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002/62

PAGE

COPY

NO.

189 •г 212

---

## Page 148

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

has tran

moder observation tmiration and comlete comral.by shaka.

heavy terestigathen alacted at aering the mention of way this

stupid tarteen had com to thr tir (1i docm't masa my dirterce

nether toey dew 1a advance sjOE USTAlD or not;

anysey, they

voulà condont such an investigation). Eyery causdala bit of Int

BItSCH WAS tAIn IrOn CSTATO zant the VaA, expectally about 213

service in ten Hesire Cops, ete. it the sona tina, COlALO J

mes contant @bonyation and study for posaible fours usa bo

to Sordot Iatelligence sad I services.

Bo It whoald be botel bare that any som

7 ANNIENT HO NEVER 21 ISSE FREDE

scable

contanta for future me trectal trainine i

Be 114050

the USA or diner corataser (but epalmet the USAl, aster e scol

stury a mestigatica shieh contire coons ply monten In Noseou

the sea mies lts coations: that CATa 1a clear ma 1a tho

Suet Intelligence or Cl Series.

mattonal inguizy me invertlantion an eraLD van going en

througà the soviet abnasy in vashingion al throug foriet syes

9.

After being a fen weaky er sarche in Hence, OSHAID

enrestad e wish to stay forever ja the Soviet Daloo uni to be

a Sariet citinen. then the kal sold to ain:

"IS you real?

Terefors, somber la this period, CAlD went tautbe U.S.

Sabassy end roomcol his U,S. citizeabi». Aiter tata pete

Stete Security daedaad to gIve OSIND sone lina of jes to w

accordance wits hts incleige ud constitties, it the sen than

contratag to stay his su a potential amt.

20.

me not bes beca

sa secitied to

1se

34 3 208) a 30 gen May

220

laben CENE abcaed acme disatisfaction about the

Soviet an et 11f9 (It la usual for marleme) 0d by this tia

CATa had already not his girl silend (the KM3 probadly belped

SELLET

C0L2163

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

190

.712

COPY NO.

---

## Page 149

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

bon in ca

bin to jica barto ente his bappy asi to saba sure that ha orla

not loave tha Sorlet Doion) - the KCB st the suno tiza coucind

to tral his, probebly in the lay di an ali-isenionod insadat,

talling hin that he vould be s good fightar againt tgerialtata

a salest enem illanies, such as Bocar, leaky

tell sosorbers bere, vintle 13 th15 51al of triting,

a better laren in the U.S. you bare to figit vusy bard to bur

capitalisa cy 0 11i1t Sergeyeries says,

sogether sis

empitalian yo bare to buy all the sillionires, inelling your

at a mize

CARBA 500 18

15a107$0

gonna 115001 Flattes or tha Candat cause traldo the USA

thon, we sive you peralastes beemna ve baltove you are s strag i

Venot to return to the lsa and to do sanething tor co ecrasce

conse, such as to bela say imeriesa pro-soviet cronisations or;

Ior Instance, Deems & nesber of 3 Proe Cala Comities 0s In

case al crisis to do sometitog cutstanairy that 5112 be noticendle

everysberg that will prove that you are a real Commist. Bon,

someshare bers, 11 ba ms already a Sortet agent os net, the Elai

bowed up, c the was thers bertra, but by this tina abe 1ae

pregnat and OSAID dactied to go to the lat. Then be sas told.

After tads taRi, (SNALD shouted ibere 1s your treedoul

Els part, but wita acm diestelates, perminalos vas granted for

beg to go with. hi

13. Investigation ol (SiALD's vite shoula be undertabon

as sOch es poliO, wiia braco etention boing paid the greatIona

to follow!

0002/64

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

СОРУ

NO.

191 ≤ 212

---

## Page 150

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

=7=

Also, sbe tast bo epelled fros tse Kaadenal, sal tbes abe auto

ectto, The sane setter void relate to sy of har relatives.

fatber, nother; brothort....Il' they were sambers of the EPSU

b. Io stdeb offloes in she lovited barare and alter

e. Tho belped her and how my times to suite pagers

for the Soriet Mulatry al Fariga Altairs to say that sho

hail zanried on Americen alties and verla 1izs to 3o vita his to

the USA? Il 1t uan done a few tinen and edta great difficulties,.

then prooshly it ma to oly with a little bela froa the rude, Il,

MESSEE

a, shere did her busband, OUAID, Fork In whet Fartosy)

we his bons de work? Bor long dia be spend in Moscer be

he went to linail tho cacua Atrel did ha co dia somans ale

Harkers!

I.

120 wore bor Insbond's tienda? From what alteles?

Ixtollectuals?

G. Hoi any times were she and her husbad. while they

Inhes no difference if they were egents of act.)

SHONET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002/ 65

PAGE

192 • 212

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 151

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

better thm it shouli be liter balag bore only two years: is

1. Puri does aba say cout llie in she Dorist Union:

Did hex basband have a gun vhile be was in the

Striot Inion:: Il so, tou does she lan socut 1$1

-set 1t: Dia ba bevo spectal peralsaion to carry a sm: Di be

bring thàs an vith hin acresa the border fur your lidormatioo,

nobody carmies a gun la thu lash without the hes eventrally

dental de li lest de ali an irrita

To gave finnolal hely to them bedore they 105

For a regular torber in the Soviet

ho sure instructican to Oil to 283 Por

the USA?

Les theis Fart Chill bm 11 Pissie, Destined Iy

tho bush:

Ir so, in tat church?

Foony iden ves I1

Bid they

beguise thaliasecond child, bon in the t. S."

The Cia

It, The torestigation et tha vira sacula be sado stes

con live within the Soviet Union.

avalable taro da CONAlD's story in tha taci sa tbe spee

al his; visit to the Soviet Inbasay in Berleo Clty- A-friendly

atten can be aspected to hams suis a repent.

senent deal fic the soviet tody.

amn 491977992113

SOONET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

C002/06

PAGE

COPY

NO.

193 • 212

---

## Page 152

13-00000.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

5X-11057

16 January 1964

10:/CN

÷

4222851. 395

15 53" (Anners

So, Gang? is

17-773;

FORCEMEN OF CONVERSATIER MORE

TO:

SUBJECT:

Chief, SR

CIA Work in Support of the Harren Commission

Document Number

For FOLA Revisit on

EPI.

Satow led sumary of the matters discussed in our

meting with Messrs. Angleton and Rocca on the evening of

15 Januazy I964.

In ture, i5. Angleton was reporting to us

ins suistance of his nesting with tI. Allen bulles, hur.

I: Loe Rankin, Chief Counsel, Ar. Yellins of the sustice

Departuent, Mr. Selms and fir.

Rocca, which took place on the

afternoon of Id January 1984.

Mr. Angleton said that ir. Dulles, apparently pro-

vosed by press accusations that the vargen Cornission has

been dilatory, asked CIA for suggestions of questións or

Tea set to be the die contes

to the voice toreronent.

Comission and to be transmitted

throngh the Departrent of State, would seek additional evi-

sence which is presunaoly avallabla ir

Soviet files wnich

could assist the Commission's deliberations.

dr. Dulles did

not have a datalled idea of what he wanted to ask the Soviets

for but did say that the questions should be

Although Mr. Angleton thought that the letter should

be written only alter the CIA report and comments have been

complated, in order to make the letter as effective as possi

". Dulles felt it should go now,

be phrased In general1-

tles and allow the Soviets nore flexibility in their handling

of the matter than would a more pointed letter based on

concrete findings.

Hr. Dulles asted CIA only for the questions

and not for a draft letter.

Mr. Murphy suggested that we ask

only for certain records rather than put specific questions

to the Soviets:

hir. Murphy suggested that thesa night include

Soviet hospital records connected with Lee Oswald's attemptod

suicide, city visa and registration records for Moscoy and

Mins', lactory personnel records Iron Oswald's place of employ-

nont, etc. Also Oswald's diary noted that his case had passed

through two commissions in the USSR; ve might ask for the

records of these commissions as well.

Ar. Angleton said that

in transmitting our suggestions to Mr. Dulles we can laclude

any introductory paragraphs or explanatory comments that ve

192-100 209Z776 COn

111905%

HEY ISTS

201-299248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

194 of 212

COPY NO.

---

## Page 153

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

- 2-

felt necessary to explain to lix. Dulles the direction of our

thinking about thesa proposals.

(Note: I Instructed ir. Wigren to prepare a

drait of suggested queries, using the

assistance of DERYABIN and

to have this

ready, 11 possible, by the closa of

business today.)

: 3.

Rankin stated that the Commission wants to account

in detail, minute by minute and hour by bour, for Oswald's

time outside the United States.

kir. Bagley suggested that .

the narrative chronology of Oswald's stay in the Soviat Union

be convarted to a chronology tabulation which would pernit us

more simply to insert added details and dates as we learned

of them in other documentation which we can expect to receive

Shortly.

This vas agreed.

(Note: I Instructed li. Wigren to begin re

casting the narrative immediately into

this form.)

4.

Dr. Rankin said that the Comission has a walst-high

stack of documents and reports received from the FBI and Secret

Service which CIA has not yet received.

These include Secret

Service Interviews with Marina Oswald, letters Iron Lee Oswald

13 the USSE and other naterial. Le promised to send this

material to Mr. Helms shortly..

(Noto: We will pass appropriate parts of this

materlal to DERYABIN for further analy

sis along the lines of his earlier work

on documents already in our possession.)

5. - Messys. Angleton. Murphy and Bocca considered REFYA-

BIN's, initial analysts of Marina Oswald's documents, and the

questians to which it gave rise,

to be a worthwhile and

important contrebution.

CIA would be unable to nake any seri-

ous analysistor even hypothesis until some of DERYABIN'S

questions lad been answered.

Mr. Rocca suggested that DERKA

FIN's paper be recast into nore of a questionnaire form and!

Ar. Bagley agreed, pointing out that DERYABIN's comment and

speculation could be put off to the side as explanatory co

ment on each question,

as appropriate.

Hi. Angleton and Mr.

Jurphy thought that it would be desirable to send this paper

to the Warren Commission in advance of other CIA reports with

a menorandum informing the Connission that we would need

answers to this interim questionnaire in order to reconstruct

a detailed chronology of Oswald's time in the USSR and to

corment on his activity there.

The Connission would be asked

to procure the information from Marina through any Agency it

might choose.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002/68°

PAGE

195 •€ 212

СОРУ NO.

---

## Page 154

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

• 3-

(Note:

I Instructed ir. Wigren to prepare

• the

DERYABIN paper in this format urgently.)

6. Hr. Angleton reported that he had asked the Commis

sion representatives certain questions pertairing to our use

of defectors

In analysing the Oswald papers:

Fas the Comission formally requesting us to

have defectors analyse the material?

w. Wellins thought that the answer

nuto this question is yes.

However,

Mr. Angleton asked for a formal

request from the Comission to this

effect.

The FBI. has stated that its

reports are not to be passed to

ASLADLE, which may cause some compli

cations.

Would the Commission be prepared to assume the

burden of responsibility if such a defector should dis

gree with the Commission's opinions of comejup with a

radically different hypothesis or latergotation?

The persons present said that the

Commisaion would.

If a defector who had contributed to tho analy

sis of the documents should be unwilling to appear person-

ally and formally before the Commission, would the

Commission exercise its subpoena powers agalnst him?

Ar. Rankln thought that 1f there was

a risk involved for the defector, the

Commission would not do so. However,

Rankin pronised to get a formal answer

Iron the Comission on this point.

do

Hill the classification we put on our corres

pondence to the Commission be honored?

the asswer was that in principle our

classitication would be honored.

How

fication of lts material.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

PAGE

196 • 212

COrY

NO.

---

## Page 155

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

52-11057

NT. Angleton reported that Mr. Richard Davis 18 repre

senting the interests

of the Department of State In this

inquiry.

Mr. Thompson had ruled himself out because he was

Ambassador to the Soviet Union at the tine of the events in

question.

One matter which had been brought to light by the

Oswald case was the need for a nechanism in the United States

Government to record and assimilate our knowledge of the Soviet

handling of American defectors to the USSr.

The Bureau 1s

apparently in some danger of criticisn for its fatlare to keep

an eyelenostald alter his return

Similarly, CIA has not

systematically collected nor compiled information on Sovtel

defector handling•

Berlin Base had kept a list of American

defectors at one time, but these individuals have not been

debriefed on their return to the West.

8.

The Commission representatives at the 14 January 1964

meeting estimated that the Warren Commission would need from

three to sis nonths to complete its task.

Mr. Bagley raised the question of the desirability

of having DIRYABIN participate personally, representing the

FBI as an Interpreter perhaps, in a debriefing of Marina.

Hesar?. Angleton and surphy were convinced that CrA must avoid

direct Involvement with this investigation. Although it is

loss elicient as a method, we will content, ourselves with

outtine vritten questions to Marina to be steah by whatever

Agency the Commission may choose to use.

Jennent B. Bagley

Chief, SR/CI

201-289248

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6002670-

197 ≤ 212

PAGE

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 156

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

BROCCA NOTe tO HELMS ON

Talk with DULLES on 2I MErel.

XAA7-27169

23 March 1964

Dick:

4/3/64

Had a briafing at Allen Dulles' house on Saturday after -

noos. (We were assembled to discuss his taping session with

Udwin in New

Yopb tonight. None al the others were present.)

AWD ahowed soe a letter ha had received from Rankin

recently exproaning the desire to reach a modus vivendi in

order to allay the story of CIA's possible sponsorship af Oswald's

activity. The point of the communicatios to AWD was to suggest

that he serve as aville sexiewer fox the Coramiasion, The letter

outlined alternative possibilitias in this matter (affidavit from

the Dos, ete.).

In my presence, AWD wrote the answer:

No. Doclining the invitation to serve as file

reviewer for good and sufficient reasons.

bo: Stating his willingness to provide a state-

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1978

sent a gatiny to the Convalasion with raspatt to

his knowledge of Oswald during his tenure as DCI. He

Document Number

618-793

noted In the tail off of the letter that as far as he could

of Oswald

remember-he had never had any knowledge at any time

prior to the date of the assassination.

201289248

CS: CAPK

Rock

- 23. Mại 6K

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0002 71

PAGE

CCPY

1980212

270.

---

