# 104-10216-10020

## Page 1

104-10216-10020

CACLE SECRETARIA: DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE CO

ESSURD

CLASSIFIED MUSSAGE TOTAL LOPIES 'UT

1poeckel

GROUP!

VI

NO.26: 80368098058

(When Filled In

REPRODUETION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

POJTING ANDICE I iALS-SEEN BY

5.

52620:

20

DISSEN

ACTIO

SUNIT

PER

WH8

RETION •

FILE, VR

RYAN, CAS. CO/PEG CAPeROR COPS apies. Fl.

644

SECRET 032107Z SEP 7I CITE

17586

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI

1-201-Cuskees

TYPIC MHSPAWN AMSTRUT

1o NDGLACIERS MAVE ADVISED THAI -ARTURO

3SEP IN 4 / 6568

CHAUMONI HAS BEEN GRANTED SIX MONTH NON-

IMMIGRANT VISA TO WORK AS CHIEF BUYER FOR

PERFORACIONES SOA., OWNED BY AMSTRUT-S. OUR UNDER-

STANDING FROM SLOMAN IS THAT CHAUMONT WAS MEMBER OF

CRIGINAL GRANVA EXPEDITION WHO ATTEMPTED COMMIT

SUICIDE WHEN CAUGHT BY BITISTA FORCES.. THIS

APPARENTLY CAUSED PERMANENT DAMAGE IO HIS MIND, BUT

SUBJECI WAS KEPI ON BECAUSE OF SENSE OF LOYALTY IO HIM

ON PART OF FIDEL AND RAUL. IF THIS CORRECI SUGGEST WE

HAVE UNIQUE OPPORIUNITY FOR PROP PLAY THAT WOULD BE

ESPECIALLY DAMAGING TO CASTRO BROTHERS: CAMSTRUI-16

REPORIS THAT RAUL CASIR O PERSONALLY INTERVENED

TO GET CHAUMONT HIS VISA TO VISIT MEXICO.)

2: REQUEST WH/MAIMI SURFACE ABOVE STORY THROUGH

ONE CF THEIR ASSEIS. WE SURE THAT IT WILL BE PICKED

201-252239

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAL DISSEMINATICN

FIRSON UNIT ANGILO

BOURNET ES

CLASSIFIED MESSAJE

TOTAL COPILS

SECRET

GROUP!

When Filled In "

PEPRONUCTA OF THIS COFY PROHIBITLO

.....

ROUTING ANDION INITIALS-SELS AY

6

N3

3

DISSEN. ET.

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

FILE, VR

PAGE

2

17586 SECRET

UP BY INTERNATIONAL WIRE SERVICES AND THAT WE CAN THEN

ARRANGE FOR FOLLOW UP IN MEXICO WITH, HOPEFULLY, SOME

CHANCE OF INTERVIEW BY LOCAL PRESS. SUGGEST STORY

FOLLOW LINE THAT THINGS MUST BE PRETTY BAD IN CUBA

WHEN MEMBER OF GRANMA EXPEDITION WHO HAS DEMONSTRATED

SUCH LOYALTY TO FIDEL THAT HE ATTEMPTED IJ SACRIFICE

HIS LIFE FEELS HE CAN NO LONGER TOLERATE CASTRO CUBA.

ALSO SUGGEST WH/MIAMI CONSIDER BRINGING IN ROLE OF.

CHAUMONT IN ARREST AND TRIAL OF CURBELO TO INDICATE

THAT CHAUMONT NOW APPARENTLY THINKS CURBELO HAD THE

RIGHI IDEA.

3. FILE: 201-839856. GP-1.

SECRET

- 1.

SECRET

..

---

