# 104-10256-10319

## Page 1

104-10256-10319

MEMORANDUM FOR

C/CB

SECRET

TE:

• 9 Nov 1956

SUBJECT:

WI,COTT, James Bernard, Jr.

This memorandum is to summarize security action

Fiscal Accounting

_Grade.

NUMBER:

APPRAISER:

109301

BACKGROUND: Subject is 25 years of age and was born in the United States U55

Subject's father was born in

Subject's mother was born in

Only the following relatives are known to reside outside the United States or to be

citizens

of another country:

None

Jr. High School

Subject attended

Since then Subject's activities have been as follows:

1948-52 - U.S. Army

Feb 1953-Feb 1954 - College student

Since Aug 1952 - Private employment (part time and summers)

Since Feb 1955 - College student

1948

unti]

INVESTIGATIVE ACTION: Investigative action by CIA consists of coverage as scheduled,

including contact with 1

developed references.

and o need references and

Subject's spouse, Elsie Louise Paull ALCOTT, $109300, is also an applicent for Agency employ.

ment - investigation pending as of 9 Nov 1956.

or trustworthiness; no informant questioned or commented adversely on Subject's

character, personality, associates or relatives: Subject maintained a poor scholasti

adjustment to military life and was of little use to his outfit.

STATUS:

subject has entered on duty.

/X/ NO

Subject has been polygraphed.

CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION:

Security approval subject to polygraph

Concu, DR. Phersand

YES

NO

3/4/57

CIDU

beca

---

