# 104-10221-10185

## Page 1

104-10221-10185

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

: Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 532176/20/17

4545

(0))

UNIT

'ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL NUREAU OF INVESTICATION

la Reply, Maçro Refer no.

Fue No.

MICROFILMED

UC1 3 1 1967

Doc Mine. SCh

Mamt, Florida

October 13, 1967

Ro:

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

Also Known As

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Investigation rolating to subject is predicated

upon.

information that membors of the Rovolutionary

Movement for Insurrectional Recovery (MIRR) and the Cuban

Nationaltst Movement (CNM), both of which nre organtzations

with members at Miami, Florida, who are engaged in anti-

FIDEL CASTRO ctivites: were in the process of da June,

• 1967, of planning military type action againat Cuban

targets in Canada, in purticular the Cuban Pavilion at

Expo 67 in Montreal, Canada.

Pertinont information rogarding the subjoct who

has been affiliated with the MIRR te as follows:

PAST INVOLVEMENT OF SUBJECT IN

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

Previously conducted investigation has rovealed

that FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, who utillzed tho name of

FRANK' ANGELO FIORINI, hiS

name by birth, upon his

entrance into Cuban devolutionary activity, had son ded by

Cuba in 1958 to assist the Cuben rebols,

FIDEL CASTRO against the Cuban Government of President

FULGENCIO BATISTA.

CONFIDENS/AL

Group

Excluded From

Automatyc

Downgrading and

Declassification

eS CONV

---

## Page 2

104-10221-10185

CONFIDE

Re: PRANK ANGELO PIORINI

Following the advent of CASTRO to power in

January, 1959, subject bocame an officor in

the Cuban

Air Force and

also an inspector of gambling in the

Tropicana. Night Club in Havana, Cuba.

He was closely associated in 1959 with MaJor

PEDRO DIAZ LANZ,

then head of the Cuban Air Force, and

as of June, 1959,

FIORINI departed Cuba whon Major, DIAZ LAN"

became the

sirat high officlal of the CASTRO regme

to defect.

In October,

1959, FIORINI sained home notorioty

when he flew as co-pilot for Major DIAZ LANZ fron the

United States and dropped soveral thousand anti-cAsTRo:

leaflets on Havana, Cuba.

this action the Federal

Aviation Agency

in Hay, 1960, rovoked the subject's

pilot's certificate.

On January 29, 1960, tho United Statea Department

of State

decreed that the subject had expatriated himself

from his United States citizenship by his acceptance

in March, 1959, of an appointment asllalson officer in the

Cuban Air Force.

This deerce was appealed and FIORINI's

United States Citizenship was subsequently restored.

In 1961, the suhject formod an organization

called the International Antl-Conmunist Brigado (IACB),

described as an organization @posed to Communiom and

the CASTRO regime in Cuba.

On May 14, 1961, the "Miami Herald", a newspapor

published at Miami,

Florida,

daily, contained

the Sunday

Supplement of "parade" magazine,

which

carried a

CONFIDENTIAL

-

2

---

## Page 3

104-10221-10185

CONFID

ENTLAS

RO: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI

front-pago photograph and

an article on FIORINI's anti-

CASTRO activitles written by syndicated columnist

JACK ANDERSON.

As of Septomber, 1961,

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH, who

is identified.as

the leader of the MIRR, advised

during Interview that he had pernitted FIORINI to

go on a

MIRR raid

against Cuba in Yehruary; 1961.

BOSCH stated

this raiding

party travoled by boat and had failed to

land in Cuba;

and he was dissatisfied

with FIORINI'&

performance

fortuno

and

and described. the latter as a soldior of

publicly seoker.

In the ensuing years, FIORINI has been reported

through numerous sourcos and by his own announcements

as a participant in plans for several Cuban.

revolutionary adventures, none of which resulted in any

military type action against the CASTRO forces.

A confidential source, who has furntshed

reliable information in the past and who has been

closely assoctated with FloRlhi through the years,

as of May, 196, that the IACB was a paper

that is consisting of flORiNI, bur

otherwise having no menbership or source of

funds, and

that FIORINI himself is a soldier of fortune.

AS

of. June, 1961, FlORINE

was reported in contact

with Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH of the MIRR in connection with

• plans for an

alr-raid against Cuba.

Such an attempted

raid did occur on June 19, 1964,

when Cuban

forces shot

CONE DENTIAL

- 3

---

## Page 4

104-10221-10185

CONFDENTIAL

Re: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI

down a single engino aircraft which had departed from

West Palm Beach, Florida,

and which contained threo

Cubans who wero affiliated with Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH:

On

Septembor 25, 1967, the

"Miami News'',

daily-evening nowspaper

published at Miami. Florida,

contained an article captioned "Exile Ransom

Try

Secks Swiss A1d."

This article indicated that attorney

BENJAMIN R. ALTER of Miami, represonting the

International Anti-Communist Brigade (IACB wau

endenvoring to arrange

the

ransom

of 500 Cuban political

prisoners in exchango for $5,000, 000.00 worth of medicino.

and

foodstuffs.:

Tho Swiss

Embassy in Havana, Cuba, had

reportedly boen

asked to help in the arrangements.

Also on Septembor 25, 1967, a Spanish language

radio station WAB at Miami announced

that GERALDINE

SHAMMA, an American citizen,

who had been imprisoned

in Cuba prior to 1963 for working in behalf of anti-

CASTRO organizationa, had Joined with FRANK FIORINI

in a plan to collect

$5,000.000.00 for tho

exchange of prisoners in Cuba:

On Septenbor 27, 1967, HM T-l, a Cuban

exile knowledscable

regarding the efforts of

Cuban

exiles at Miami to socuro the relerse of

political prisoners

In Cubn,

stated that the

recent publicity given

the

JACB in a plan to exchange

medicine and food for Cuban prisoners

was,

in his opinion,

a personal endeavor on the

part of GERALDINE SHAMMA 2nd

FRANK FIORINI to gain publicity.

MM T-I stated

that the topic of ransoming Cuban political prisoners

is widely

discussed among anti-CASTRO organizations

leading

exiles to believe the Cuban Government may be

willing to

engage in ransom negotiations.

MN T-l stated

thát there

had not been any direct contact with the CASTRO

Government by the tACB.

CONFIDENT IAL

---

## Page 5

104-10221-10185

CONFIDENTIAL

Re: PRANK ANGELO. FIORINI

RECENT PARTICIPATION OF SUBJECT IN MIRR

ACTIVITIES

On April 12,

1967, MM T-2, a personal

acquaintance of FRANK

FIORINI, advised that the latter

was

Involved with other individuals in a plan to

blow up a Cuban ship in a Mexican scaport, possibly

Veracruz.

On April 21, 1967, RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON, who

born on July

1, 1914, at Norfolk,

Virginia,

who stated he was the son of FRANK FIORINI,

ạt Miami, Florida.

THOMPSON stated that his mothor

while FIORINI wag overseas

during World War 1i

and FlORINI never assured rosponsibility for him.

THOMPSON stated that he was raised by his

mother's parents.

He stated he located FIORINI

as the result of seeing

article concerning

FIORINI and his Cuban

revolutionary activities which

appeared in the "Parado" magazine section of newspapers

throughout the country:

• THOMPSON related that he and

FIORINI and ono DONALD FRANCIS ROCHE, who reelded

at the Alda Motel in Miami, Florida,

had in fact traveled

to Mexico in the bugluning of April, 1967, in FIORINI'

1058 Cadillac car.

Prior to this travel PIORINI was

in close contact

with Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH and other

members of the

THOMPSON claimed to be

present when explosives and detonators were

in the body of FlORINI's car at a Miami garage while

Dr. BOSCH and other Cuban associates of Dr. BOSCH

were present.

THOMPSON stated that these explosives were

to be placod

On a ship al Tampico, or Veracruz, Mexico.

THOMPSON

stated thie sabotage was

intended to be 'an

anti-CASTRO

action supported by the Mirr..

He said that

CONFIDENILAL

-

5-

---

## Page 6

104-10221-10185

CONFIDENT LAL

Re: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI

circumstances

prevented execution of this sabotage and he,

dscribed the location on the highway between Cludad

Mante and Cludad Victoria where

the explosives and

the magnets

_to be used

for attaching the explosives to

the hull of a ship.

were burted:

He also advised

that FIORINI had received

$200 money order from

ORLANDO •BOSCH

sent by BOSCH from Miami

Ciudad Manto:

As of July 5, 196%, a confidential source

abroad advised that Mexican

authorities had

located the cache of explosives,

detonators, and magnets

on the highway between Mante and Victoria as had

previously been described by RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON.

This

same source advised that a money order for $200 had been

received by FRANK FOURGIS, Hotel Mante, Cludad Mante,

on April

13, 1967, sent

by one ALDO FERNANDEZ.

When Interviewed on May 1, 1967, FRANK FIORINI

clained

his trip

to Mexico in April, 1967, together

with DONALD ROCHE

and his step-son RONNIE THOMPSON, waS

in the nature of a vacation trip.

He stated he is

acquainted with Dr. ORLANDO BOSCIl of the MIRR but denied

he had

seen BOSCH

In several months.

He danded that

he carried

any explosives to Mexico in his 1958

Cadillac, which he used on the trip.

He denied that

ORLANDO BOSCH had sont him money to Hoxico but said a

Cuban friend had sent him $100.00 from lilami. :

Northwest 35ch

to the sister of Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH. He denied

acquaintance with FRANK FIORINI, also known as

to FIORINI in Mexico.

CONFIDENTIAL

-6 -

---

## Page 7

104-10221-10185

CONSIDENTIAL

Re:

FRANK ANGELO PIORINI

DESCRIPTIVE INFORMATION PERTAINING TO PRANK

FIORINI AS FOLLOWS:

Age

Date of Birth

Place of Birth

Race

Sex.

Height

Weight

Build

Hair

Eyes

Complexton

Characteristics

Employment

Marital Status

Wifie

Children

Residence

Telephone No.

FBI No.

42

December 9, 1924

Norfolk,

Virginia

• Whtte

Ma 1e

5 feot 9 inches

190 pounds

Stocky - heavy

Black and wavy

Brown

•Dark :

Smokes cigarettes

heavily.

Used Car Salesman

(Most Recent Location)

GM Used Caris,

Northwest 36%h Street,

Miami,

Florida

Marrted

JANET MANN

One step-daughter,

daughter of BANET MANN

by a

previous marriage

2515 Northwest 122 Street

Miami, Florida

688

3388

948

362 C

CONFIDENTIAL

_7-

---

## Page 8

104-10221-10185

CONFIDENTIAL

Re:. FRANK ANGELO FIORINI

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

it is the property of the

FBI

and ig

loaned to your agency;

it and its contents

are

not to be distributed

outside your agency.

COs

-

---

## Page 9

104-10221-10185

FD.J78 (1198. 11-28-81)

DBB

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

Fita Na

H1am1,

Florida

October 13, 1967

Title

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI; AlBO

Known As FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS

Character

Referenco

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

•Lettarhead monorandum

dated and captloned as

above nt Miand, Florida

All sources (except any linted below) whome identitleo

are concealed in refereced comunication have furiohed rellable

Inforation in tue

past.

Tola decusont cortaina dallher recamaendaliane dar concluaload ol tão FBi. li la tha proport;

ol tha fBi and le ioenod lo you agoniyile and la contanto Bra not lo do diaribulas outeid

Juar woney.

121-242254

---

