# 104-10186-10116

## Page 1

104-10186-10116

iNFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CoUNTer Cuba

SUBECT Cuban Intelligence File System

REPORT NO.

CSI-316/01233-64

DATE DISTR

19 October 1964

NO. PAGES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

• 20

• CS-311/00115-64

8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

PLACE & Washington,. D. C.

DATE ACQ. October 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOUACE ORAOINOS APE DEFINITIVE:

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

souRce dervice Cuba Aps i lice. who served with the Cuban Intolllgonce

Headquarters Comment

during employment.

GUIDE TO RECORD KEEPING

5

3

2

4/TV

SECRET P.

COPY: NO.

PAGE:

NO.

OPERATIONAL FILE

SUBJECT:. Directions to Operations Officers for the Establishment

and Maintenance of Records (2 files) of:

Cases in

Planning, Cases in Training and in Effect.

1.

2.

PART I

Origin, Material received for assessment of the candidate.

Corroboratory plans for deciding on the recruitment and use

of the candidate.

SEATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

T NAVY

CISCO TE

Noto. habi distibution modested by "$".)

INFORMATIO NAREPORT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

AIR

INSA

I&NS

RAAK

1 FBI 2

3

1

INFORMATION REPORT

i SAW 1*5922

Hil57-61

IE

ЗUIE

RIDIAN

ALX - 1816

SO PROJECT (ANNOGY.

- CSCI-316/01233-64

---

## Page 2

NO FOREIGN

DISSES CSCI-316/01233-64

a, File card. Development Fora No. 1 (tho 36 poirts).

b.' sutobiography.

c. Investigations roquested.

di Investigations completed.

• Cover (see form No. 2) and confirmation of it, or plans in lieu of.

1. Conclusions (so far he is a candidato and therefore a case 1n

planning).

NOTE: If the agent is foreign, Information

must be included on

the opcrational situation in his countrs and also in the

countries he khows personally.

3.

rockuplans ith designation of objectivos; beginning with that of

a Plan.

b. Report on development of partial plans of aspects which must be

covered in the case.

c. Monthly reports (sce Form No. 9) •

#. Interviews (numbered).

5. 'Connections of the Agent.

a. Page for control of persons who appear in the case (Form No. 10).

b. . Persons with

access to information and with whon he will star

is penetration work (full individual biographies should be

is derree of iriendship with the arent

agent exercises on these persons.

c. Candidates to be recruited. (Same)

d. Family members (who are not included under b'or c).

e. Connections without immediate interest.

Comments: In general, the greatest possible amount of information

should be

obtained on each person, using our own means

and the source of the case during the course of our

attention to 1t.

This will aid in developing the case

operationally and will permit us to make ubjective plans

for the persons who interest us; and at the same time,

with it we

will have a greater control of the agent

(Forn No. I should be applied wherever possible).

SECR

E T

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01233-64

= 3-

6. Coapromising Elements.

i. Reports from "A" manuscripts and typewriting (which do not

correspond to

sections 5 and 8).

b. Photographs.

c. Recordings.

d. Every type of compromising documents (receipts signed by the

candidate for sums given him, oaths, ete.).

7. Operational Technique.

&. Telephone check.

b. Hall check.

c. Personal and other checks.

Us: These

the microphone

the General Dircetorate. •

8. Operational Preparation.

•. Plans.

b. Practico of "A".1

c. Reports of the result.

9. Icchnical preparation.

a. Development Form No. 3.

b. Plans of classes and development.

• Reports and results of the apprenticeship.

as to whether the agent can communicate or not.

a document assuming responsibility.)

Both must sign

NO

FOREIGN DISSE

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

PART 11

File 80..8

1. Work Plan.

Dovelopment Form No. 4.

11. Sketch Diagram with Indication of the Mcans Used.

A. Communications Plan.

III. Messages Received

ive Form No. 5 and No. 6.

IV. Messages Sent.

See Form No. 7 and No. 8.

V.

Operational Technique.

VI.

Monthly Summary of the Caso.

See Fore No. 9.

B. Semiannual Review of the Case.

VII.

Internal Communications.

A. Operational.

B. Administrative.

LONG LIVE OUR SOCIALIST REVOLUTION

"WE WILL WIN"

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

OPERATIONAL FILE

FORM NO. I

Information to to f1lled. out on the candidate.

1 .

Personal data of the candidate.

Surname and first names:

Nicknames:

Photographs:

Citizenship:

Surnames and first names of parents (two first names), age, domicile,

and place of birth.

Domielle of the candidato (complete details and telephones).

Place of employment of the candidate, name of the work center,

complete address.

Wage he earns.

Civil status of the candidato, name' of spouse, number of children,

their

names and

dates. of birth.

2. Personal description of tho candidate.

Height, weight, color of skin, eyes, visible or special marks, type

of scar,

habits or physical defects

or physical traits which are

outstanding. Intelligence Quotient.

3. Cultural level.

4. Technical level.

5. Economic level.

Economic entree of the closest family members who live with the

candidate.

6. Politival level (political position, Ideology, and social class).

Ming CuT.

* in

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 6

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEN CSCI-316/01233-64

- 6 00

7. State of health (present and past). And of lis father and mother.

If he has ever been operated on, for what and where; other illnesses

(syphilis, epilepsy, hereditary diseases).

Short histors of his political "nctivities.

With whom has he been

connected in the revolutionary structle

and who oriented

him. Name

• the contades who participated in his irs, political activities

(before and after the triumph of the revolution if they are Cuban)

9.

Short history of his studies. (Place and dates

where they were made)

Who were his teachers and his comrades in the classroom and of studies

in his class. (See whether they are of any interest to us.)

10. Short history of his cconomic situation. And that of his parents

and closest family membors.

11.

Short history of the places where he has worked.

Who were his chiefs and comrades who are interesting to us, why he

gave up individual Jobs.

12. Short history of the places where he has lived.

And names of persons who knew him in the places where he dived.

Mention any revolutionaries who know of his activities and can

Inform us of them.

(As part of the requirement of the agent it 1g

regulation if he is a foreigner that he should describe the

operational situation in his country and in those he knows, ta full

letail and carefully explained; if he is Cuban, he should describe

the countries where he has lived.

In addition, the sub officer

should continue questioning the agent on the operational situation

and develop it all the time the agent remains in training.

13. Intimate aspects of tho candidate's life.

a. Defects and

weaknesses.

b. Temperament and character.

c. Habits and customs.

d. Hobbies.

•• Marital relations.

1.

Sexual problems: lovers, fiancees, normal or other relations

atisfactory oi

not'..

Relationship with spouse, children, and parents.

political, or manly lufluence on the spouse, or vire verse.

• '

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 7

1d-0000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

-7-

14. Matrimonial problems.

a .

Whether the spouse is Jealous.

Matrimonial faithfulness of the spouse.

c. Whether there are sexual disturbances in the spouse.

d. Other.

15. Family problems.

16. Economic problems in general.

17. Psychological make-up of the candidate.

(Psychological analysis and corroboration by neans of psschiatry.)

18. Current preoccupation of the candidate.

(Economic, moral, family, and others.).

19. Aspirations and plans of the candidate.

20. Tastes and personal preferences.

a: Degree of sexuality.

b. Others.

21. Whether he is objective or subjective. (Give examples.)

22. Whether he is vacillating or decisive. (Give examples.)

23. His personal courage. (Give examples)

as revolutionary.

a. In Cuba.

b. Abroad.

25. Family of the candidate's spouse.

•a.

In Cuba.

b.

Abroad

i Sor fin

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

1d-0d0

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY CSCI-316/01233-64

- Ba

2. "Frionds and relatives in Cuba and abroad.

a. Intimate friends.

Give details óf cach, including surname

and first names, places of work and

b. Less intimate friends.

address, the opiuton

they have of the

candidate from the political and moral

c. Social relations:

viewpoint.

28. Countries he has visited. (See Item 12 of this form.)

28. Languages he knows in addition to his own (much, normal).

29. Relations with revolutionary elements. (Give names.) *

30. Eation with the counterrevolution in Cuba.

the canadates terre anandase, onton thy have or

the candidate?)

31. Relations with counterrevolutionaries abroad. (See preceding

paragraph for details.)

* Relations abroad with non-revolutionary

(See the preceding paragraph for detant elements of the bourgeudste.

33. Persons who know of his revolutiomry activities.

(Details or to what extent they go.) The political opinion they

have of the candidate.

Persons who know of his connection with the DSE? or with us.

Positive

and negative aspects of the candidate.

(FITT out Form I2 and keep

1€ up to date.)

35. Motivation for being an agent.

36. Weakness of the candidate.

This is a section which is always to be kept open for items that are

picked up or interpreted in the development of the case.

S E

C R

E T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

## Page 9

& CRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

-9-

FORM IT

OFFICER:

SECTION:

CASE:

COVER ELEMENTS

l. That persons know of his revolutionary activitles?

2. What attitude must the agent take with each of them?

3. Nhat must we do to back up the agent's attitude?

1.

hat family members or persons who know him does the agent have d

he counterrevolution or the reaction

Mention names and degree of relationship or friendship only.

: Additional' general information appears in Form NO. J.

What fantly members or counterrevolutionary or reactiorary persons

who know him does the source have in the Republic of Cuba or abroad

who would build up and support his cover? (the same)

' What family members of revolutionary persons who know him does th

cent have in Cuba or abroad who would not build up his counter.

revolutionary cover? (the same).

7. What concrete facts bear witness to the agent's cover?

8.

In what way does the agent explain to the enemy the revolutionary

ittitude of his closest family members (1f he has any)?

9. How will the agent explain the form in which he obtains his living

to his closest family members in the country? (if they were to be

paid for by us?)

10. How does he explain and how will the agent develop his activities

during the period that he is in our care in the country?

11. What attitude must the agent take when the moment arrives when he

is exposed by the enemy? What explanation has he prepared?

12. How would he inform us (in case of being caught in flagranti)?.

13.

CONCLUSIONS OF THE OFFICER:

NOTE:

The officer's conclusions should have constituted the

preliminary cover plan of the case.

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

---

## Page 10

SECRET

SO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-31G/01233-64

- 10-

OPERATIOSAL, FILE

FORM ILL

Lasis of Elemerts Necessary for the Technical Instruction of Ayents

aid collaborators.

Chapter I. Pursonal Data.

1. Age.

b. Technical training. Details of it.

•

c. Cultural training. Details of 1t.

d. Profession or office he knows, Details of 1t.

e. Persónal tastes or preferred hobby: artistic, cultural, sport,

scientific.

f. Physical conditions or defects they have. Detalls of them.

Illnesses they have.

g. Visible scars and tatoos that he has.

h. Personal traits.

1. Height.

2. Color of hair, skin, eyes.

3. Weight.

Chapter II. Information on the Region or City of the Country Where He

WilT Per forn His Work.

a. In what country will his work be done?

b. In what city,

town, or region of the country will he work

principally?

c.

Explain whether he knows the place where he will perform his

work?

1. How many years has he lived in that place?

2.

Maputer the place as plain, mountamous, coastal, lake,

3. Tradition of the place.

1. To what is the

social aclivityplace primarily devoted: Labor, artistic,

SECRET

50 FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 11

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI 316/01233-64

5.

«в:

7:

-11-

Whether he is known in the place by reactionars, people of

the police?

What is the repressive and security situation of the place?

What are the means oil: Communication and transportation of

the place:? Trains, wharfs, ports, buses, airplanes?

And the checks in the place?

..

What type of documents are needed to live in the country,

resident or transient?

Chapter III. Activities He Will Perform in the Place or Country of

Destination.

a. Legal? Wat type of work: chief of center, officer, or assistant?

b. Illegal? What type of work: chief of illegal center, officer,

gent, or assistant:

In the latter case, what will be his cover or activity in terms

of the normal work

of the country?

d. His economic possibilities, where will he got the means for his

maintenance and movement in the area?

€ .

What will be the place of work he is to perform: Penetration or

action inside the enemy?

1. In the Cuban counterrevolutionary emigration?

2. Within a mercenary encampment?

3. In an action or sabotage group of the enemy?

4. In the regular army of that country?

5. Other?

His work will be to build up a network of informants-collaborators

hich will operate within the points noted above, and rou will

e concerned only with receiving the information he obtains an

transmitting it to the center?

Chapter IV: Concerning His Departure from or Entry into the Country.

or clandestine?

him, or not?

b. Detail by what carrier or means of novement he will make his

departure or entry?

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES CSCI-316/01233-6

-12-

c. Detail the documents he has:

1. Passport (details of 1t).

2. Identification carnet, personal (of any type).

3. Labor carnet.

4. Electoral document (codula).

5. Driver's license.

It is necessary

to give the file number, so as to indicat

hether they can be used for concealment or other purposes

d. Has he been a prisoner, where and for what perlod?

Has he belonged to the armed forces of any country? Durin

what period, in

what country, in what corps

Chapter V. Proposals from the Section as to the Technical Training He

Should Receive:

Chapter VI. Comments.

Chapter VII. These are the data the instruction or the ll Section needs

to start classes

after working out the plan Jointly with

the operations officer from the section that is handling

the case.

. The operations officer will consult the instructor who will

landle the designated section, and between them they will prepare

a proposed plan of training for submission to the person in

charge of the opcration; he in turn will study it and sign off,

and then will submit it to the head of the Illegal Section for

his final approval.

Both are responsible for the technical

training of the agent.

NOTE:

in at on the enoug means of are on ta hel

country where the radio operator 1$

to work, radio amateurs

In the country, and legislation about communications.

SECRET

NO

FOREIG!

DISSEM

---

## Page 13

1d-0d0d

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-64

-13-

FORM Y

The filling out of this guido must not be treated in a mechanical way

as a work plan is done, since we must take into account that all cases

do nut show the same conditions and are not going to accomplish the

sane objectives.

But if they serve

us as a model to develop all the

'elements which we must know in connection with the case.

NOTE:

The data that appear in this work plan are in the sane order in

which they appear in the Decalogue for the sI.

SECRET P.

• APPROVED:

Head of GEN. DIR. X

DEFINITIVE PLAN OF THE CASE:

1. Concerning the personal data of the agent.

*. Personal data:

Pseudonym

Complexton

• Age

weight

_ Height_

_ Build

Race_

Eyes

Hair

Visible or special marks_

Civil Status

If hots married, include data on the wife and children and their

situation

b.

Personal character of the agent.

Indicate the most imporant characteristics, positive or negative.

of his disposition, noting especially:

a) Whether he is introvert or extrovert.

b) Capacity of reaction to problems, especially complex ones,

or unexpected situations.

c) Tendency to exaggerate actions in which he takes part, lack

of modesty.

d) Weaknesses

and virtures:

Placidity, nervousness.

Boldness.

Organized or anarchic?

How does he live?

How does he look?

His habits?

Vices.

Woman chaser or sober.

Addicted to drink or drugs.

To games of chance.

Whether he likes festivals.

nether he makes friends easily.

The opinion those who know him have of him.

His

degree of intelligence, adaptability, natural aptitude

for sports, manual of sechanical work.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 14

1d-0n0d

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01233-64

- 14-

c) Watch the traumas, psychoses, neuroses, or problems he has

had in the past which still

exercise an influence over hin

in the present.

On the personality of the agent us must

Insist particularly on the most minute details, because

the enemy always chocks into adolescence, student state,

undversity or political, of men in responsible positions

with accoss to or close

to sceret information.

c°.

Source of origin (how the case came into our hands).

d.

Dato, form, and circumstances in which the recruftment was made

and

who made 1t.

€.

Basis of the recruitmont.

t.

Degree of compromise (Ideological, moral, compronging documents,

oconomie, or other forms).

8. His category (according to the category table). 4

k. Short history of his social background (bourgeols, petil

bourgeols, proletariat, peasant, or lowest class).

1. Short account of his political life.

J. Short history of his economic situation.

k. Scholnrship and cultural and technical level. Languages he

speaks.

1. Current profession. Profession he will follow in the country

of destination.

•. Case officor analysis of the agent, including:

1) Officer's opinion of the agent with regard to his disposition,

capacity,

and abnegation

in accomplishment of the work

entrusted to him.

2) Degroo of compromise of the agent because of activities in

which he previously participated or because of being com•

romised to us in the course of his training.

4) Motivation for becoming an agent.

5) Weaknesses of the agent (this is a heading which will always

be kept open).

6) Quality and degree

of trust

we should place in the agent.

7) How many officers, operational houses, vehicles, and telephone

numbers the agent knows.

SECRE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 15

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEM CSCI-316/01233-6

= 15=

2. Training for intelligence rork. (Detall 1t.)

a., Operational.

b. Technical.

c. Special courses.

3. Cover

With the enemy ( counterrevolutionary or reactionary bourgeolal

f the countr of destination) and their authorities

b. Base he will develop legally in the country of destination.

c. With his family embers.

In case anyone knows of his revolutionary activities, whether

with the Department or with the DSE, mention these and explain

in addition the measures taken in this respect (make the

references needed in File 1). (See Form No. 12.)

4. Travel Plan.

Show in brief form how he will make his departure from the country.

By what means:

legal,

or the Guantanamo Naval Base), when he will do it, and in what way

and in what capacity he will arrive at the country of destination?

F2159

5.

Work plan to be developed.

2.

In accordance with the elements with which the agent

Is currently concerned.

Explain the work he is to accomplish

and the concrete tasks, if he has been charged with immediate

Detail in addition all the facts which we can

compile on the connections the agent knows abroad. Classify

1) Persons with access to information and with whom he will

start his penetration work. (Penetration plans.)

2) Candidates to be recruited by the agent.

3) Family memebers..

4) Relatives without immediate interest.

To obtain these data we must fundamentally make use of the

and they

will be obtained in the course of his

agenting. We must also use our own means. This point has

great importance, since these will be the persons of whom they

will take advantage in obtaining information, moving up,

and placing tbemselves in the desired position.

Moreover,

in case any information is acquired about them, if it only

gives us a reference to the person's name, we will know who

is meant, and thus we can avoid a great deal of work for our

comrades abroad, since they will not have to send us these

data and can restrict themselves to current information

about the persons.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01233-64

-16-

b. Eventual.

Once

settled

in the country of destination.

objectives he will work and

to chat retivities ne soni devote

himself.

1) On whom he counts initially.

Means of supplying him funds for operational use once he 1:

in the country of destination.

Cover

of the agent for thei

management.

3) 11 an accumulative salary is set up for him as a functionary

of the Department,

to what amount is it to grow, and is it

to be pald him there?

4) Economic comproniso

with members of the agent's family in

cuba (at he seeks some work, directly or indirectly; In the

latter case, what cover family members will use with their

neighbors and the rest of the family).

Activitles the Agent Will Undertake in Case of Emergency. •

a) On being exposed by the enemy and recruited as a double agent.

b) In case of being subjected to pressure without proof being

shown him.

c) In case of suspicion of the agent.

decent on see cease cause of technica

eficiency,

Head of Dept:

Head of Section:

Officer in

Charge of

Nucleus

OPERATIONAL FILE

OPINION OF THE OFFICER IN CHARGE

In examination of the case

OFFICER:

CASE:

DESTINATION:

1.

Results of analysis of the personality of the agent (coordinated

with the report of the officer.

2.

Results of the exanination in operational training received by the

agent (coordinated with the report

of the officer, verified in

practice).

3.

Result of the examination od technical training received by the

agent (coordinated with the report of Ml, verified in practice

with the agent).

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•--

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01233-64

-19-

OPERATIONAL FILE

FORM NO. 9

TO:

Chief of Departmont M

FROM:

Section

Monthly Surnary of Case

• For the Month of

and its purpose

This case is operating in

1s

Points which should be included:

• Numberand date of reports received from the agent (contents

sunTary).

Number

and date of

reports sent to the agent (content

in summary).

3. Conclusions and means of arriving at them.

In Cases in Training We Must Report:

a. Classification and future location of the agent.

b. Current situation of the case in relation to its work plan (cover,

travel, etc.):

0 .

Conclusions and opinion of the officer concerning the agent.

low his revolutionary spirit and enthusiasm toward his patriotic

mission are noted.

a vocation there.

Whether he is creative and

Approved:

Officer:

First Name

FORM VO. 10

COXTROL OF NAMES APPEARING IN THE CASE:

Second Nane

Surname

NIcknames

Place Where

It Appears

....

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

---

## Page 18

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CSCI-316/01233-64

-17-

OPINION OF THE OFFICER IN CHARGE

4. Opinion of the officer in charge as to the accomplishment of the

In the work plan, in accordance with points l to 3 above,

indicating his opinion

with regard to:

In what tasks-within the general work plan the agent showed

the best conditions.

b. What type of treatment should be given the agent in operational

communications (reasons of

the effective type, patriotic,

Ideological, or other type which should be included in operational

communications).

€ .

What other defect or quality has the officer in charge noticed

in the agent which can play a part for or against in the work

plan in future before any unusual situation or element that

may occur.

d. For what period does he think he will work with us?

e. Note the possibilities of what he accomplishes.

Signature of the officer

Date of

Message

Message

Number

FORM 5

CONTROL, OF OPERATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS

MESSAGES RECEIVED FROM THE AGENT:-

Means of communication used:

Date of

Comments

Receipt

FORM 6

MESSAGE RECEIVED FROM THE AGENT

1. Appears as sender:

And addressee:

2. Date of the postmark of

Date of the postmark of Cuba

Date of receipt at the box_

Date of receipt in the section

Date of sending for processing

Date of return

Date of writing the message by the agent

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Total days

---

## Page 19

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/91233-64

-18-

3. Nessage No..

Text of the message (Att. #l)

The message came on -

and was

1n

Case of letter (Add copy of the legal text, #2)

Interpretation of the message, measures to take (Att. #3)

Comments:

Date

Sent

Message

Number

Case Officer

FORM NO. 7

CONTROL OF OPERATIONAL CONUNICATIONS

MESSAGES SENT TO THE AGENT:

Method of communication used:

ConTIrmation

Date

Contents

Means

FORM NO. 8

MESSAGE SENT TO THE AGENT:

1. Used as return address:

And as addressee:

2. Bat was sonari in ne.

and was

3.

Case of letter: The legal text was written b

Attached copy of the legal text

4. The message was sent. through:

a. Regular mail from Cuba.

. b.

From the center in

c. Other route (attach plan).

S. Comments:

(add directions to the center).

Case Officer:

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 20

1d-0n0d

Dato Issued

SECRET

SO FOREIGN DISSEN (S01-316/01233-64

-20-

FORM NO. 11

OPERATIONAL FILE

STATUS OF THE CASE:

Concept

Amount in Pesos

Tavunt in Dollars

NOTE:

Surname and

First Names

The signature of the agent must be recorded on the receip

in those cases where it 1s possible.

FORM NO. 12

COYTROL OF PERSON'S WHO KNOW THE ACTUAL IDENTITY OF THE AGENT

Place of Work and

Reasons for Knowing

Date Trom

Position, Address

the Agent

Which Known

OTES: In the case of functionaries of the DSE or the Directorate

Indicate only pseudonym, position,

and reasons for knowin

the person.

1. This control should appear in the back cover of File No. 2.

2. In the case of persons who are not functionaries of the DSE oI

the Department a report must be made containing general informatio

and the reasons why he had to know the activities of the agent,

and on this control sheet must be noted the place where the name

appears, specifying the part and page of the file.

Headquarters Comments:

1. According to the source, the "y" stands for arente (agent).

2. The DSE is the Department of State Security (Departamento de

Seguridad del Estado), the Cuban internal and counterintelligence

service.

3.

5.

According to the source, The Decalogue is a questionnaire rith

blographical and political dats concerning the agent which is filled

out and sent to the Si Department (Departnent of Information Services -

Departamento Servicios de Informacion) for its use.

Is the division of the DoT which collects and saintains files of

operational information

For a discussion of

organization, see CSCI-311/00115-07, s July 196%.

According to the source, V. R. stands for Vigilante Revolucionario

(Revolutionary Vigilance):

He suggests that cot. may stand

for Counterintelligence

but does not know for certain.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

