# 104-10173-10128

## Page 1

104-10173-10128

MOUSE SELICE CAMITIRE OU ASSASSINNTIONS STARD MIN"S

FILE TITLI/NUNGER/VOLVIL:

(LECSE DiCUMENTS)

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIA. UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELITIONS, TE AVY:

DAT

RECE IVED

3/10/38

MATT

RETURNED

3/10/28

Leslie

(PRINT NNIE)

Wizelman

STANTUN: OF

•REVIENING OEFICIAI

deste Wigelmon

•EI: SA0L LON: CENOCE DO 11100S E AE SUAENDO 08

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

---

## Page 2

• DEL:

MANNEN 10NP

ES RECORD MATERIAL

1: THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2 RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES &

DISPOSITION SECTION, RiT GEJ8, ON OR BEFORE

DATE INDICATED.

3. IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER

INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION _

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORN

CORN 1790 USE PREVIOUS COITIONS

3. С/ГР/КВ .184/24

Rist Barteaux A 10

12. BES

4 Feb 28

QUE DATE

29 Gisa

DO KOT KEMOVE ASY PAPERS- OR

MUTILATE FOLDER.

RECEI

3/10/28

8:

10.

DOCUMEN

19.

13:

10.

15.

Porte io. Wash-lir - of

-266

DOCIENT: 16,58%

FOLDER: -

307

PAGE:

30X:

RETURN TO

.IP/ARD

RA CE-$8

610 monous

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

112

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

To: Me. Cheston

tuch n way

cho wed

M.J.D.

Jalu

30 April 1945

hir.

Director's office

(9908)

OS$ Forma 8001

OSS SECRETARIAT - ROUTE SLIP

Date

wane.

0. C. Doer1ng,

Rane

J.

Donovan

D.. C.

Lee

G. s..

Platt

P.. E. PuglIeso

_F- J.. Putzelle Jr.

A. W. Sulloway

R. Thrus

ELles

(23 695)

The is to bie filed: f Thank

And was filter by Hunts

rand conservioners

onsigue. tha

mach to in

his

at in. Vl.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

12206105

OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

Schnals and Training Beanch

2324 F Ster, N.W.

Washingtria, D.C.

23 Apr1l 1945

SUBJECT:

Peport of It. Hunt on Hest Coast Tratning

TO:

The Directör; OsS

le

the report of it. l..jo Hunt, Jr:, ACe of the Secretartat; on

the west const training has been analyzed and the: atatements made. therein

thoroughly investigated.

2. The report will be diecussed by paragraphs:

A• (L) The complaint of lack of coordination in arrivals at

the west.coagt cannot be laid at the door of Schools & Training®

are notified when and there personnel must report and arrangements for

transportation are made by them.

(2) e (3) Nt the tlme of It. funtes corival at the west coast.

there was a certain amount. of confusion.

This has now been corrected and

clothing 19 Issued to students on Friday night 1s they arrive in time for

into to be done..

(4) % (5)

The situation referred to in these to paragraphs

is a difficult one.

with the boat crews presently available, it 1s not

• possible to run a boat on Sundays. It may be prssible to send departing

students to the mainland on Saturday afternoons after they coplete their

course. This mould necessitate getting rooms for them for Saturday night

in Log Angeles, which is complicated by the fact that the los Angeles office

closes at three o'clock on Saturday efternoons. It is destrable that new

students arrive at the island on Saturdiya in order to get orented over the

weekend and be ready to atart training on tonday norning. The croided con

ditlons over the week-end referred to by It. Hunt were not due to the fäct

that departing atudents do not leave unil londay, as the turnover 1s not

creat enough; the crowding is caused by the fact that the school is rumung

at full capacity

and because shortage.of statlon complement personnel makes

the allocation of quarters to neu arrivals difficult. & hotel locator

system has now been instituted which has to son extent remedied the situatlo

= (1) It. Huntes suzgestion that the baste course could be cut by

several days jives no specifie recommendations.

an examiratton of the

scherule of the course shows that the trainine is as concentrated as possible.

Le prefer to accept the jurent of the trining officars of the various.

branches on inds point rather than a general' statement by

one junior officer

of a non operational branch.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(2) Il le not fall that the school mas unprepared to re-

•37 In a sallefacton mannor and no complaints vere received on this score

from ary other mender of his ciaso.

(3). It is trug that on tro occasions instructors failed to

reut their clauses becanse of a mix-up caused hy splitting the class ineo

, two sectlong. Steps huve been taken to prevent a repetition of this

arcirrence.

on checking rith another member of the same class; it. was

ascertäined thet no classes were dionissed after ten mintes.

The shortest

perlod given tas abent 45 mimater.

•(5) It is not clear just what it. Hunt means by this para

ie complains that traintng films broke up

leisure tine in the

evenir and then says that. becaige of this many students wanted evening

clasges. In any evont, because. of the concentrated schedule, the evening

hours after the showin; of the films must be used for study, not leisure.

(6) Physical training is now given regularly every day.

(7). The cipher course has been much improved by the advent of

two ner instructors.

organization takes only foir hours out of one hundred

and four, and is at best a dry though necessary subject.

(8) 8: (9)

It is necesgary to have both officers and enlisted

sen in the sane class' and it is curlously impossible to design a course to

meet all intellectnal levels.

Every effort has been made to strike a happy

sodiun that will do the greatest good to the creates! nunber..

He feel It

only fair to the school to say that it. Hunt has demonstrated hinself to be

very rank conscloug in these and other conments in his report.

rt. ghould

also be noted that' in this class there mere a number of dedburghs (both

officers and nen) who had lived together at achool and in the field for

cary months. Naturally there was s cameraderle anong officers and men,

which apparently It. Hunt could not understard. It has also heen reported

that he was subjected to a good deal of ridding" by the s.n. and s.l.

meghers of the class because he was non operational.

His complaints about

the conduct of officers ind men and his objection to associating sith

onlisted men doubtless spring from these sources.

c. (1) It 18 adaitted trat tre recreational recilsties are limited

but there is not much time for recreation and what facilities there are are

used to the best advantege. Schools Traininy feels that we were ver for

tunate in being sble to establish (after. long resotiations) a brench of the

gry lotion Picture Service at Mr.

This serine is norially available only

in large carpa where, attendance can he

seesured In thousands. The faet that

this service is only availahle three rights for reck is due to lips molicy

and not do any arrangement on cur parto

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

The PX can hardly be called such. Every effort has been made

•lo obtaln a regular brarch post Exchane on the islan! but so far without

The result is that a small store is maintained of whatever

necessities can be purchased

There are ample readirg facilities for all personnel with s

sufficient supply of newspapers and magazines.

(2) The situation with reference to the condition of the harracks

has been remedied by daily inspections.

Offenders are required to climb the

Fountain in off hours.

:....?

(3): This paracraph again reflects It. Junt's rank conscicusness,

his lack of understanding of the relationship

of officers and men who have

been on operations together, and his discomfort at the "kicding" he received.

(li) It is the poliey of the school that there be no saluting withe

The arei is small and too crowded for any benefit to accrue

fron the continuous arm waving which rould to necessary if saluting were

required.

(5)

This complaint is definitely Just. Steps have been taken to

insure the privacy of mail in the future.

In conclusion I wish to state that the Schools & Treining Branch

any constructive criticism and regularly receives reports from other

branches prepared by their students. He then sit sown with the branch repre

sentatives and endeavor to iron out difficulties and improve courses and

conditions at the school in line with constructive suggestions.

I would like to suggest that in the case of ary future reports,

Er• Sulloway take them un first with tlie Schools and Training Bränch 3s i

the custom'of. the other branchese

H. L. ROBINSON

Colonel, FA

Chief, Schools and Training

1 Incle (ut Hunt'g Ript)

Cc: Lte Col, Pe Ko Allen

SEGRET

- 3-

---

## Page 7

hive your tet me kner

Whet you prupine tring

To remedy

the attrined

TO: COLONEL ROBINSON.

Will you let me know

what you propose doing to

remedy the attached.

W. J. Do

Director"s Office

OSS Form 305€

(3308)

---

## Page 8

SECRET

Office Memorandum •

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

General Donovan

Secretariat:

DAI3: 3 April 1945

SUBJECT:

Report on lest Coast Training Center

Pecisia denoticiano

Tartin

I think you may be Interested in the attached report

on the lest Coast training center which was prepared by

nortoy re hunt a mo of no secreteria pot ord love

This report was written on his oun initiative and

contains his observations based upon the

two-week course

which he recently took at Santa Catalina®

It is' suisested, if you approve, that the report

should be forwarded to Colonel Robinson after

you have

had an opportinity.to read

.1tó

/ CorresenoN

Writtein at reginst

get. Bama.

Y/25/45

Qu Allan

Attachment

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To : Chief, Secretariat

DATE:

30 March 1945

FROM : It. E. H, Hunt, JI., A.C.

16, 2'89

SUBJECT: West Coast Training Center

..The memorandum-covors transportation to and from the

WCTC, the curriculum at

Santa Catalina (Detachment WA), and

general comments concerning the Detachment.

A. Iransportation

1) There seems to be a lack of coordination con-

cerning the arrival and departure of officers and EM at. Los

Navy enlisted men (5 in number) +

were flown to Los Anzeles from Washington while the malority of

Army and Navy officers made the trip by slow train (Monday

2) Upon

arrival in Los Angeles on Friday, it 1s

SOP. to travel in the early afternoon by Army truck to Newport

Beach, where arriving students are barracked in standard EM

quarters without regard to rank®

3) Clothes and equipment are issued Saturday

morning from 0700 until departure of the boat at approximately

causing crowding and

confusion at a difficult time. Friday

evening vould perhaps be a better period for such issue.

Although classes are not scheduled to begin

student groups spend the weekend on Catalina. under

crowded conditions, because previous student groups do not leave

until Monday

This situation is brought about by abserce of

transportation to and from the island on Sunday

5)

Upon return to the mainland londay afternoons,

(although academies end on Saturdays) it is necessary to spend

an additional 24 hours in Los Angeles waiting for scheduled train

departures Tuesdays®

By scheduling a boat on Sundays; an

a rot on tina du a train

estimated 6 days of student time might be saved the government

Curriculur

1) Based on my experiance with the "14 day" basic

It appears that a re-examination of the student schedule,

aimed at a more concentrated schooling and a decrease in the over

lapping nature of subjects taught, could cut the basic period by

several days.

SENN

---

## Page 10

The Detachment (HA) was totally unprepared to

handle may

particular

class (#26) which numbered 42.

Cho maximum

number

or students handled and anticipated had in the fust been 18.

This resulted in a splitting of the class into

sections, and confusion of schedules among the instructors, caus

ing their non-appearance at scheduled hours - not an Infrequent

occurrence:

On several occasions; instructors spoke for as

Little as 10 minutes

of a scheduled hour, dismissing the class

for the reminder of the hour. (Ihis lecture material might be

coordinated with other lectures, thus cutting down on the number

of training hours scheduled on paper.)

5) Training filns, show each evening,

broke up

student leisure time to such an

extent that many students er

pressed a desire to attend classes in the evenings as well,

perhaps fron 1900-2100 or even later.

The physical hardening program came abruptly

and then was abandoned for as much as two days, only to be under No.

taken again with greater vigor.

lany students sugrested that

the hardening phase be administered every day In the form of a

scheduled hike or climb.

7) Specifically,

the courses in Demolitions,

leapons, Foreign Background, and Fieldcraft were the nost com-

petently handled and the most consistently well presented

Cipher, Organization and Security vere givon apathetically and

with little attempt to evoke student interest and/or participa-

of sland officers prevented

lecturers from aiming at a definite level of comprehension.

In many cases by elementary methods of

presentation; while En became restless from lack of under

9) This restlessness caused a disciplinary problen

in the classroons where El cursed,

shouted,

copied each other's

work at will, without Interference by the civilian instructors

Co. General Conments

I) Recreational facilitles were at a minimum with

WD Hovies only three nights

a week, a thorcughly Inadequate PX,-

and a lack of reading facilities for both Eil and officers.

2) Barracks were maintained by students and

instructors at an absolute minimun of sanitation; physical-

Vr

appearance and comfort.

---

## Page 11

SEALET

--3-

31.°

3) Upon arrival, many officers were quartered

indiscriminately with El,

had a deleterious effect upon

the already low standard of military discipline.

Saluting and/or regard for rank was absolutely

19, Jing

unknown.

This is either a result of Detachment policy, or lack•

of concern on the

part of the respongible officers.

5) Censoring of officers' mail had an adverse

effect upon most officer students,

which became heightened

considerably when the censor (as OD) punished a group of officers

who had written their wives that they were avoiding PT in the

?

mornings.

This information was used by the officer as Od from

his position as Detachment Censor, and was considered as "not

quite cricket" by the officers who knew of the incident.

2d Lt., A.

SOMET

:?on

---

