# 104-10178-10154

## Page 1

104-10178-10154]

MATERIAL REVIERED AT CIA NEADQUARTIRS BY

HOUSE SILICE COUNTIEY ON ASSASISATIONS STIFF MISERS

FILE TITLE/NUIDER/VOLUME:

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

i

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

15 NE

DATE

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

FAT

-OCK

SIGNATURS OF, REVIEWING OFFICIAL

1425

NO. DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS FILE

201-1300

---

## Page 2

DIS ATCH

CLASS RATION

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

PROCISSINE ACTION

Man io fot critte

Chief of Station

ALTON HOURS: HITTIES

NO2O1

mother

110Q G1

ANCLEVE-15 recently received a letter from hia

1n which she

gave him news

_spends most of his time

Idirecting the Instellation, of a thermoelectric plant

In the area.

A snapshot

was enclosed, and we are

enclosing a blow-up

for your Information.

J1s apparently in

and

"the only comment about him was that he

Is suffering from back trouble.

ATTACHMENT:

As stated pars? (2 coples)

DISTRIBUTION:

* - CH/WD (w/att, h/#)

AMELENS-IS

(CROSS BASE PEACE TO

3 C.8

DSPSON STAMO, AND HUMBIR

HVCA-15572

SECRET

JUN 28 1968

I DATE

28 June 1968

Deis nas mummer

1900-300985

---

## Page 3

14-00000

---

## Page 4

DISPATCH

(65S7819

SECRET

2

chief of Station, JAMAVE

_AFG

Chlof, Western Hemtechere Division

Chief of Station

PBRUMEN/ASCLEVE-15 - Report

ACTION C CUINTO BEEMS

•See below.

1P

PROCISSING ACTION

MARIO 100 ADI 100

ORAT QUALIND DISE

CATA ALOGE INDIEIRO

the Infornstion fron

who recently arrivedl

AMCLEVE-15 racelved

who got 1t from

INWAVE may wish to contactl

_1? it has not

MISHAFI-MED

JUL 1 1 1968

DOC. MICRO. BER.

ATTACHKENT:

As stated pare 1

DISTRIELTION:

CS Co. i

Iat

CROSS BORKERCE NO

OSPATCH SYMBOL NO MADER

EVCA-15571

QLASSIFNANON

SECRET

DANg

JUN 28 1968

28 June 1968

e7e1390981

---

## Page 5

14-00000

---

## Page 6

14-00000

FROM, IVC:19519, 7 June 1968

75-6131

SUAJECT: IUUSTY OpAratIONal Reyorking for May 1968

ANCLEVE-15

Subject contines to provido valuable

Infarmation on CIRASH

and CIVISTA-5.

He took an SGSWIRL examination which

successfully cleared up some points

that had been of concern to Hendquarters.

440.00

---

## Page 7

SECRET

1x-3=21

TO

• : WH/COG

FROM : Interrogalion Ressarch Divialon

SUBJECT?

AMCLEVE/1S -- IDENA

201-300985

7 June 1968

IRD 672501

BACKGROUND:

Sabjecß in a 40-year-old PBRUMEN male who has been of continuing

NOFIRA Interest since Initlal contact with JMWAVE and more recently

with the

Station as a penetralion of the IDEN B organization

PURPOSE/ PROCEDURE:

Subject was SCSWIRLed at the requent of the

Station because

of several lanes which tended to question Subject's bona fides. possible

airlindon with PBRUMEN Intelligence through relatives, unreporied assocl-

ation with gangeter elements, thefts from WOFIRM, plus other items spectfled

In questions lited below.. The intervlew was conducted in the home of

•Oscar C. KALBING in both Engllah and Spanial (Subject's English le quite

good, however, during actual testing Spanish was used to avoid ambigully or

misunderstanding of the question content.) KALBING did the translating.

RESULTS:

Sabject remaine sensitive to one question which in related to his past

dealings with IDEN C but in fairness to Subject lais sensitivity la believed

generated by genuine uncertainity over the amount of items which he had

boen Instrumental in getting for IDEN C. Senaltivil Initially recorded in

other aress was resolved through post-teat discusaion and responses to all

other questione are regarded as substantially truthlul. Subject was most

cooperative and candid throughout the entire Interview.

DETAILS:

Because of the numerous leaven which were belleved in need of clarifl

calios, a three phase tent was atructured prior to the intervlew and rehearsed

wilh Subject completely before any testing look place. Diacussions, ae noted.

wero in both English and Spanish. Spacific questions asked of Subject and

answera given by him are as follows:

SECRET

CS-COPY

1-30086.5

---

## Page 8

SECAL!

Page 2

IRD 172501

Have you uned any name besides IDEN Al Asswer: No, arcept

for sicknames and allases used with WOFIRM.

Have you ever travelled to Wailingtos, D. C." Anewer: tes.

• Once several yeare ago.

Havo jou ever boon to the sorles Ualon? Anawers No.

Are any of your relatives membera of the Communior Party?

After some diacunolon subject felt it probable toat they were.

Those specifically mentioned were hle two brothers IDEN D

and IDEN E and also poselbly a sister named IDEN F who la

also in PBRUMEN and married so a Captaln in the Multill.

When the question was prefacod with the worde: "Is it your

• belief that any of your relatives are members, " Subject'e

answer was always yes. He based this belief on the fact that

both brothers hold highly responsible positions in key Industries

In PBRUMEN and hence must be member.. He also noted that

prior to bie leaving PBRUMEN, he (Subject) and bia two brothera

had many diecussions about politica and their view» dillered

from Subject'". As for hia brother IDEN E. Subject regarded

him ad the "brain" in the family and originally a very religious

person who abended Catholle services dally. He later evinced

distruat for lbe clergy la PBRUMEN and blamed them for the

downfall of the charch. When Castro made his move, IDEN E

was in complete sympathy with him and remained with him

despite his apparent conversion to Communiam, although

IDEN E never acknowledged that he had been a Communiot and

would usually retort with a comment that he (IDEN E) wae &

"Bumania8."

Are any of your relatlves working for PBRUMEN Intelligence?

His anewer was that he felt that at least one of them was accord

ing to what KALBING Inferred during hia discussion with Subjoct

the day before the SCSWIRL tent. This was bie brother IDEN D,

but he also wondered about his brotter IDEN E who might also be

WiCh PBRUMEN Intelligence because accurding to what bis mother

mentioned In a letter some time ago, IDEN E had been in the

USSR rsceiving training of some sort. Thla tralaing lasted for

a full year and occurred in 1962 to the bost of Subject'a memory.

Subjoct was reasembly aure of thio date because of the rileslle

crials" and Preoldent Kennedy's deats which occurred lalr.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-10000

Stuktl

Page 3

IRD 972501

After thile discussion the question read: "Is ll probablo that

your relativos (brothera) are working fer PBRUMEN Intelli

gence? Anawer: Yes."

Did you mow your brother (IDEN D) was working with IDEN G

before we sold you? Answer: No.

But again had some

suspicions.

Besides the lettere we asked you to send to your brothere bave

you communicated with anyone in PBRUMEN? Answer: Yes..

His mother about two or three fimes a year and with an aunt

named IDEN I which was the person to whom be actually

addressed the lettes to his brother which WOFIRM auked him

to write.

Thia letter lacidentally was posted lo 1967 (a few

montha before

and not 1966 an noted in

Station filed. Since arrival

Subject has written

hia mother only once and had the letter posted l

prevent anyone knowing bie exact whereabouts. (In addition

to thone contacts, Subject has sent one telegram to his mother

soon after the IDEN I Just to let her know he was alright.) it

was abut thim time that IDEN E wrote to him and criticized

his participation in IDEN I.

Have you seen either of your brothere since 1961? Subject answered

no. Last saw IDEN E at the alrport ln the distance but there

were employees from IDEN E's place of employment present

and IDEN E was apparently reluctant to go near the plana. Since

1961 Subject has not seen any member of bia family and as time

goes on dues not mies them an much. The persons he clalma to

have been closest to were his aunt and grandmother and addresses

commente to them personally when be does write to his mother.

When further discussing hla brothere on this question, Subject

was somewhas complimentary desple their differing political.

views and generally cunsidered them as hard working energetic

types with good school records.

Do you havo a secret means of contacting anyone in PBRUMEN?

Claims he known of frienda who have uned telegrarsa to transmit

coded messages but he has never engaged in such activity. These

menonges were directed againa: the PBRUMEN.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

Page d

IRD 072501

• Have you ever been In Communiet Chias? Aster: No.

Have you ever workod for the Intolligence service of any country

besides IDEN J and LNILARP? Answer: No.

Have you ever seceived intelligence training la PERUMEN?

ABswer: No.

Have you over beea a member of any Commealst guerrilla group?

Answer: No. Lales explained sensitivity do the question as

emanating from errrent work wild two former Communist

guerrillas named IDEN K and IDEN I both ef whom are now

WiRE IDEN B.

Have you told anyone la PBRUMEN that you are working with

. WOFIRM? - Anawer: No. Tala question led to a discussion

of brondeant from PBRUMEN which identifled Subject se a

member of WOFIRM.. These broadcasts occurred in October

1907 according to Subject and the man flagering him was

IDEN M. The latter was not officially la Sabject's WOFIRM

greup before his capture la PBRUMEN hence Subject does not

Anow why lf was that he was specifically somed. When lt waa

later ggested that thie announcement would probably have

ocme alfect on ble family, Subject said be just dida't know

what effect it wculd have and has heard of sone. He agreed

that it was quite ironic that one aide of the family was working

with as intelligonce service which was diametrically opposed

Bo the side to which another member of the same family was

athlated and in fact because of his presest IDEN B employment

ho was actually in the businean of hunting them down. Subject

agreed that it was Indeed tronic but felt his convletion dilfered

fror his brothoro' and that was that.

Have you told anyone In IDEN N that you are working for WOFIRM?

Noted that some know of bla past affillatica bence the questioa

we coalified to menn his present aifillatio. Later nitor

resciona were recorded, Subject noser that hie wile de fully

Wilting of his WOFIRM employment as la IDEN O. He aleo

mesdosed that a PBRUMEN type, IDEN P, whos BE knows

from childhood has been kidding him constasily

SECRET

---

## Page 11

Page 3

IRD 072501

khat he le still with WOFIRM until Sabject Hinally sold him la

an offhand way.: "Sare I'm with WIFIRM. " but he does not

know what effect thia had on IDEN P or whether he has told ..

anyone of his numpiciona of Subject's WOfIRM inrulvemest.

'He specifically denied that anyone other than these lares

persons were knowledgeable.

Doen anyone In IDEN B know you have this meeling with us loday?

Answer: No.

Have you ever been saked to perform any taik or misalon agalnat

she LNHARPP Anewer: No.

Have you per performed any lak or mienion on behalf of IDEN O!

Answer: No.

Han anyone told or Instructed yos on what to report to unt Answers

No.

Have you had contact with IDEN C alace 1967? Answer: No. Com

sinned reactions to this question which necessliated a breake

down tent to Inolate the resoon for his sensitivity lo the tople.

Ho repeatedly denled that he had had any contact with IDEN C

since the IDEN Q told him not to but acknowledged a physical

revulalon to the mention of the man's saine, and a long dis

cusalon ennued regarding the extent of Subject's involvement

with ftbe man.

Subject contended that the contact began quite

Innocently In 1965 and was what Subject Initially thought was a

deliberato provocation to see what Subject'a roaction would be.

Subject Immediately reported the contact to IMWAVE handlera

who gulded him through continued contacts and lastruelions from

IDEN Q. Subject was Instructed to sell IDEN C "ollencera" (gune

with silencers attachod--about sla or seven to the best of ble

rocollection) In order to find out his true Identity, Subjeet far

nished physical descriptions and license numbers to JMWA VE

and continued to report on contact with IDEN C. He offored

Subject $500 US WhiCH IMWAVE told Subjoct to keep since di was

merely a bonus given him for his work as an intermediary.

IDEN C continued to force contact with Subject and once came

l bla home ln horts and made velled threats which were

anawered with counter threats of violence from Subject, and an

outright taront that Subject would KIll IDEN C Il he tarostened

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Pago 6

IRD 17850)

Mer again.

In 1967 while with the IDEN R. Subject gavo

IDEN C some "pencile' to keep him away which subject did

Bos ilien report lo WOFIRM Lus lator did. He gave bins about

120 altogether. Subject had promised IDEN C some 500 pounda

al:C! onplusives, M-?'s, sub-machine guas. ele. but all wan

intended to balt IDEN C for arrest and none was ever aupplled

to him. Later Subject aried alter reacting to a break-down

question that he had supplied him with penclle, silencere, and

also some grenades and pentolite. But theue he claima should

be a master of record will JMIVAVE. The grensdes were

typical millinny type and numbered about 24 to 48 altogether.

Agal, however, 'Sübject noted that he acted only an intermediary

beweon IDEN C'and another Individual uho la now decensod la

PHRUMEN and did not physically handle any murilions shipmento.

As isoled abore, continued sonallinity to the queedon us the amounta

or types of equipment furmladed IDEN C 1n believed attributable

Bo mnceralnty.of Subject's part an to exacily what be did arrango

for bipment to IDEN C. As to the baule quention mbout comtact

with him alnce 1967 (or wen he was told by IDEN Q to no longer

Dare contact with IDEN Cl Sabject Instated that he never re»

entabllebed contact uf any kind but alwaya checke &t IDEN 3 to

determine L! IDEN C le around.

Do you now have in your possession any arms, munitiona or articles

of demolition which was once the property of the LNHARP? Only

khose items which were alecuosod durioga pre-lest debriefing.

Vitoo Itome brought de Caracas by him in a sulfcase and consist

Ing of the following: Jes & smoke grenden; 6 or 7 booby trapa

(army typo): l plece of delay fuse about 100 feet long; ore primer

cord abou: 100 feet, 2 or J Mk? grenades; about 10 pencile (some

regular opom market supply lame and some of the "company"

varlety): demolition pliere, Anife, compasa; metascope (infra»

viewer worth about $50 uned)

These Items he said were taken

while with the IDEN & and with the knowledge of IDEN T although

IDEN T did not know oraclly what be had taken. Subject was uoing

these lioms frequently in training courses and they were not to

the beat of Subjoct'e knowledge the property of LNHARP as that

further that those Items are plentlful in the Miami area and can

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Page Y

IRD $72501

osally be obtained through gan denlere.

During a later conver

sation Sublect noted that be has heard of many places where

munitions could do obtained very dantly especially la New 30180%

In Callornla and in Miami, but he denied being persomally

Involved in any euch dealingo.

Have you ever stolen equipment of any type from WOFIRM? Anawer:

Yes.

About 5 gallons of gas once from a launch boal. Other than

hid: molling.

Do you know the Identilles of persons who stole arms and equipment

frOm LNHARP? Anewer: No.

Brenk-down quentions dealing with IDEN C?

Did you kare contact with IDEN C 18um 1965 through 19682 Answers

108.

During thie lime did he give you $500 for equipment which he wanted?

Answer: Yon.

Did you receire more than $500 from him? Answer: No.

Io l8 correct that you recelved threate from him? Answer: Yes.

Besides the pencils, allencers, greandes and pentolite did you glve

him any olker lems?. Answer: No. (as noted continued senni-

Elvity which la unexplalned except la the examiner'a conclusion)

DId IDEN O toll you to atop conlncling him in October or November

1967? Anewer: Yed.

Did you contact IDEN C after November 1967? Answer: No. (Slight

senallivity but explained as relatlag to constant checking on ble

whereabouts to arold contact.)

Has your employer contacted him since November 1969? Answer:

No, not to hia knowledge. On thie question Subject noted that ble

employer can easily obtals guss and supplies from Europeas

SECRET

an Petter a insiderte

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Pege 8

JED 012501

sources cheaper than LNHARP. Also Subject nosed that the

few guns (mall callare anub nose weapons) which he las

broughl tu Caracas with him from Mlamt are merely for the

porecal une of some of ais fellow employees In IDeN B, and

he breaks no laws ln bringing them with him on the len telpe

Do has mado between 1967 and the present. He feels be has

perhapa brought a total of 6 such small eldearme to Curacaa

and aloo one spurt file (AR-15) wbich ho was asked to bring

back Dy IDEN U. The rifle was a gift to IDEN U. The weapon

mimi not automatic per subject.

The only other itume which subject eculd think of which could

Lini VOFIRM vil his orgalation aro the silencers which he

reported om

some months back which hia organisation

look from captured guerrillas and which ware probably issued

to a gromp which went to PARUMEN and were lont Subject ie

positive they were WOFIRM inse but purportedly the serial

mainbers which be ribmitted could not be checked

One additional item which was cleared up dealt with the pestolite

which had been reported seen

Subjoct volunsally

mentlonid that he had seen such a supply under the bed ci a friend.

The supply was attached to magnets which were to be uned to

attach the charge to the underaldo of a abip in Caribbens watere

O IDEN V OF IDEN W nationality.

The charge was to discourage

further shipments between these latter IDENe and PAZUMEN.

Subjecs sald he detached the magnote from the pentolite and

Intendod using di in tralning ciacoes for students with his present

employer. The persoa who brosght st

WAS IDEN &.

Sanject does not koow how be got it here, but knows that hin

employer could fecilitate such deliveries.

Distribution:

Orig

• CIOA

1 - WH/COG

1 - Flold

OS/IRD

SECRET

---

## Page 15

4-100

-

---

## Page 16

я.11!

SECRE:

261-300885

---

## Page 17

CANLI SICHETANI DINIMINATION

PAPONUNT NOTTINO

ADVANNA COP

30479428

#v..

ACTION

DAISSANE

TOTAL COMES 2 S

SECRET

(When Filed M)

REPROONC HON OF THIS COM FACHIBITED

MORE

CLASHHT TO MIS N

TIE DO CRET. TO

FOL

'ANOON INTALS - SEEN BY

10

mRANCHO

WH8

mo com

SECRET M05220TZ JUN 68 CITE

19888'

iJ MWAVE

DIRECTOR

REFS.

Arrelue 15201

A

797581N01250)

6 JuN 68 IN 25390

B. JAWAVE 2600 1423513

Do AMCLEVE-15 MET

JAI GIRASH-A'S

DIRECTION AND HIS REPORIS LEO TO INEIR ARREST. UNFORTUNATELY

CIRASH-A DID NOT COVER AMCLEVE- IS AND

_IS CONVINCED

HE FINGERED THEM AND

HAS SWORN KILL AMCLEVE-IS AT FIRST

OPPORTUNITY®

2o WHILEL

UNDERSTANDS LNERGO WOULD NOT HAVE

GREAT INTEREST THIS CASE, IS IT EQUALLY TRUE THAT NEITHER LNERGO

NOR L NYUMA COULD ARREST

FOR LEAVING COUNIRY ILLEGALLY

AND TRAVELLING ON FALSE DOCUMENIS? WE ANXIOUS PROTECI AMCLEVE-15

AND WONDER IF UNWAVE CAN PREVAIL ON LNERGO OR LNYUMA TO ACCEPT

RETURN

FOLLOWED BY IMMEDIATE ARREST AND

INTERROGATION®

30 CIRASH-A PLANS DEPORT THEM

ON 8 JUNE ON VIASA

WILL ATTEMPT

( ASCERTAIN FLIGHT.

SECRET

aT

SECRET

---

## Page 18

6 June 1988

HEIORANDUM FOR: CI/QA

SUBJECT

: ANCTEVB-18 (201-300985)

Jorwarded herewith are two copies of a current pRQ I

on Subgeet•

---

## Page 19

C/WHDIP

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chlot of Station

Chlol, Vl Div1s1on

THUM

SUBJECT

Chior of station, JATS

AULE PBALYLEN

ANOT Cerational

ACTION #AQUIRED • HERINCES

NEFEREICH: UIGA 30129, 23 May 1963

XX

/087 O:e, 191E0 BiSK

#2, P3F7,8

MICROTTE

JUN 7

1963

DOC. MICRO. SER.

22 kay

lottor sent

1:1958 108

Attached hereto 18 MOT Here=t DD-2279, dated

and its' attachroat, wilch is & copy of &

axile orcanientior,

Attachest: I/l

ANOT Ipt. DD 2279 u/stt.

Distr.lbutton:

AMCLEUE-IT

• SH/COS M/stE.

LutC.

CROSS REPULLAiT 10

D 19-300 - 18

ES COPY

07GA 30142

•GASPLATUA

SECRET

JUId • 3 1968

121-200293

29 kay 1968

201-900995

---

## Page 20

S EC

left 77 to 6624-30,42

5/1

DD-2279°

22 May 68

FROM:

SE. (I-27)

AGENT: I-111

VIA:

SUBJECT: Letter sont to RSCE

1. On 22 May 1968 I-1l1 obtained the following information

3. On 19 May 19681

was visited at home

who had returned from a trip

3.

tatie copy of a lotter

During their conversation,

showed

a photos-

At a moment when

was not looking,

photostatic copy of this Ictter, which is attached to

took the

MICROFILMED

JUN 7 1968

DOC. MICRO. BER.

VIL. I A Kris 3214.2

CS CCPY

501-58098°3

---

## Page 21

14-00000

."..:

esaie0 6 uh esaa nord wt, nn

Tiai i

a ae "i toe is

aie.s

Pirtt

?p:."s.:

...".

---

## Page 22

:

...

---

## Page 23

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14.0000

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 27

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSICATI

SECRLT

chief Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station

PRQ Part I

060. - REFINICES

See below.

PROCESSING ACHION

WAREED FOR DEINE

SO EDITING EQUIRID

ON R' QUALHAD DISA

CAN RADGE WEEN KIRG

Мінізь

JUN S

SHED

DOC. MICHO. DER.

1968

Forwarded herewith is an up-to-date PRQ Part I which

was filled in by Subject on 23 May 1968.

FVC.A. 14475

0266.67

LArT

CROSS REFERENCE DO

ATTACHMENTS:

As stated (4 copies)

DISTRISUMION:

3 - CH/WHD (w/4 atts, h/s)

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO MUMBUR

HVCA-15488

CLASSAFICADO

SECRET

DAJE

MAY 2 9 1968

201-300985

28 May 1968

HES FIL PUNER

0t + +.лн 14492997 490H

---

## Page 28

14-00000

.. sir

---

## Page 29

.1. .

---

## Page 30

not not

---

## Page 31

;....

trianes

14-000!

---

## Page 32

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 33

i .

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSENTALA FA

so the s

novaNts comy

BLOTTIO

HE SiNIED MINSAGE

SECRET

(When Filled top

FEPODUCTON OF THIS COME PIONEERE

CHARAN TO PIL

#-DO TO PILL' NO.

TOTAL COPLE

5 MITRES ANOION METALS - SEEN BY

180

01888M 84-

ACTICA

ut t

no com

FeLR

SECRET 27IGI3Z MAY 68 CITE

9725

DIRECTOR, UNWAVE

REF: JMWAVE-2475 (IN 15683}

1a AMCLEVE- 19 PASSED SGSWIRL EXAM 23 MAY WITH •

SATISFACTORY CLARIFICATION ALL POINTS OF CONCERN TO

HQS. POUCH FOLLOWS.

2. WISH THANK IMWAVE FOR REF WHICH MOST USEFUL IN PRE-TEST

DISCUSSIONS WITH SG SWIRL OPERATOR.

SECRET

BT

ACTINGS

19277

27 Mar 68 m 19272 1

Ameleve -15

gulfile

SECRET

"....

---

## Page 34

DISP

MECH

CLASSARRIAL:

SECRET

Chief of Statiou

ara

Chief, It Division

Clicf

of Station,

J'WAVE

SUS ECT

ARULE PENDIET Operatioual

Forsarding of A CLIVE/15 201 File

ACTISE REQUIRIO - RiNGERIES

AR : None, FTI

REY: JAYE 2475, 21 May 1968

Attachca hereto, as Attachments 201

is a copy

of the cryptonya portion

'of ANCLEVE/15's

file.

-C/WHD

1110.6

EIRD POS DOLING

PET CURISNO DISE

Also included in the attachments are pertinent

ANCLEVE/15 contact reports and a IVANT Personality file

pertaining to his brotherl

Attachments

1.

Cryptonym portion of file

2.

True name portion of 201 file

Distribution:

3

- COS,

- 111/COS /0 atts.

CS COPY

Cross airland 1a

ING SISC NO NEER

UFGA-30135

SECHET

TERr

MAY 2 O LУБА

201-300985

2.1 Say 1968

201-300955

---

## Page 35

14-00000

CABLE SECRITARIAY DISSIMINATION

PRESON UNIT ROTICO

ASTANCaCOM

*B8U8Đ

BLOFFED

ACTION

WH-8

X o com

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

POTAL COMtS

SECRET

AE, MAS PERE 6198

(When Flied te)

DECI E1B00NAT7E

REPRODUE DON OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

MOCE O TES D 1O

JUTIN AED DI INITIALS. SE EN DY

10

CLASBITE TO FILE DOM

#-NET' DO PALE NO -

PLE NO CRET. TO

tAFO

FTE. R

BRAMEN O

FIENT-

WA/Co CIT CIT, C=/0p9,

9686

ACTING)

S E CR E T 2222222 MAY 68 CITE

DIRECIOR, AMWAVE

P BRUMEN

1o AMCLEVE - 15 REPORIS FOLLOWINGI

BY CIVISTA-5 TO HAVE ENTERED

22Ha 68 & 1 6569

_SUSPECTED

RECENTLY

1':

20 NO SIATION TRACES. REQUESI HOS, UMWAVE AND

AMOT TRACES.

SECRET

BT

ce-

stais o celoy

SECRET

---

## Page 36

CASE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

STANCH COPY

SLOTTED

SAISEPPO MASSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL CORES LEGACO, INDER POTAS. SETOS

89n reca rom

ME PRICONE FION DE THIS COP PNOMIBITED

CLABBITY TO FILE PO...

10

BRANCH O

Ho COPY

$86.81

SE CRET 212253Z MAY 68 CITE JMWAVE 2475

CARACAS INFO DIRECTOR

AKULE PRUMEN

HEN ANCLEVE

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 81313

B.

9646 (IN 13549)

1. FOLLOWING ARE COMMENTS ON AMCLEVE- 158

A• AMCLEVE-15 INSTRUCTED BY JWAVE TO ATTEMPT ESTABLISH

CORRESPONDENCE WITH

THIS DONE

LATE 1966 AFTER IT LEARNED

MAD TRAVELLED

ON

_PURCHASING MISSION (UMWAVE 3182, SEPT 66).

APRIL 1967, STATION ADVISED AMCLEVE- 15 THAT

IN

WAS

SUPERVISOR TELEPHONE COMPANY WHICH INFO OBTAINED

FROM

RECENTLY ARRIVED REFUGEE CUFGA-27444,

APRIL 670)

TOLD FORMER CO HE LAST SAW BROTHER

AMCLEVE - 15

AT

AIRPORT PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE

FEB 61.

B. AMCLEVE/ 15 WAS PRIMARILY USED BY STATION TO REPORT

ON EXILE ACTIVITIES

HAD CONTACTS WITH MANY

DIFFERENT TYPES OF INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING EX STATION ASSETS,

SELF STYLED EXILE LEADERS AND GANGSTERS. DURING

22 My 680 15683

201

SECRET

---

## Page 37

14-00000

CACHE SOCRITAR AT DISIN

ALATION

I RISONUST NOTIFIE

CLASSIFIFD BEERICA

TOTAL COR

SECRÉT

(When Full did br)

REPROGUE TON DE THIS COP

PROBITED

→ 1109 TAS. 5070 P:

82 ;

B3Y.

сьлы то ты НО-

PILE MO DREY PO

BRANCH O

DEST E

mO COPY

aro.

F78.

PAGE 2 UMWAVE 2475 SECRET

CASE MID- 1967, AMCLEVE-IS FOLLOWED INSTRUCTIONS OF LNERGO AND

STATION AT GREAT PERSONAL RISN AND INCONVENIENCE TO SELF

AND FAMILY.

2. STATION WILL FORWARD COMPLETE FILES ON AMCLEVE- 15

SECRET

BT

• .

SECRET

---

## Page 38

BEC RE.T

4521

DArE 30 MAY 68

CAME NNCISTAMAT SAURATE

DESTROY

D

RETURN TO

FIA 128

I CON

SIGRET

Mr 20

PAM

Trote, end time filed)

19 23 2

CTI DIRECTOR®

0131?

7

INTO:

JIMAVI

RETS:

B.

C.

9646 (IN 13549) * (BEING RELAYED JMWAVE)

DIRECTOR 99409** (BEING RELAYED JUVAVE)

9588 (IN 08516)*** (BEING RELAYED JMWAVE)

fat...

AMELESS

1. WISH ASSURE STATION THAT HQS DOES NOT HAVE DEROGATORY INTO

ON ANCLEVE- 15 WHICH HAS NOT BEEN MADE AVAILABLE TO STATION. HOWEVER,

WE BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE QUESTIONS WHICH MUST BE SATISFACTORILY

RESOLVED IN ORDER FOR STATION OBTAIN PERMISSION LIFT RESTRICTIONS

ON ANCLEVE 15 OPERATIONAL USE.

2. RE SPECIFIC POINTS RAISED IN REF A:

A. IN PRQ'S I DATED 1961, 1965 AND 1966 AMCLEVE 15

MENTIONED BOTH BROTHERS IN "BROTHERS AND SISTERS" SECTION

HQS HAS NO

FILLARDO OPACIA

COORDINATIO, ORIENA

BACRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITIO.

ЛЕТИВАТЬСАТНИ

800T 40.

---

## Page 39

POPAL COPIES.

SECRET

САША ВПОВОДВАТ ВІВВАШНАТИ

Same!

Fa0 10

PILA NO CO FILE 107.

BID COPY

Tone else it

SECRET

OTI DUECTOR

r

(else)

Treng

7

01313

7

PAGE THO

DETAILS ON JMWAVE REQUEST THAT AMCLEVE- 15 INITIATE CORRESPONDENCE

IN ANY CASE BELIEVE POINT OF SCSWIRL I8 RESOLVE ME

ANY DOUBT THAT CONFUSION OVER BIOGRAPHIC DETAILS ANY MORE THAN

NORMAL OVERSIGHT AND THAT ANCLEVE 15 HAS NOT COMMUNICATED

WITH BROTHERS (OTHER THAN 1966 SPISODE) SINCE DEPARTURE FROM

"B. HOS CONCERN THAT AMCLSVE- 15 MIGHT BS INVOLVED IN THEFT

OR DISPOSAL OF WOFIRM DEVOLITIQY OR SABOTAGE GEAR WAS CAUSED BY

ATTACHHENT TO HVCA-14975, 5 DECIUBER 1967, WHICH STATED ANCLEVE 15

SHOWED CIRASH-15 SOME STUFF HE HAD TAKEN

INCLUDING

FUSES, BOOBY-TRAP SWITCHES, DETOVATING CORD, INTRARED SIGNAL

DEVICES AND TIME PENCILS. HQS HAS NO PROOF THIS GEAR STOLEN

FROM WOFIRM BUT BELIEVE NATURE OF EQUIPHENT (PARTICULARLY

INFRARED SIGNAL DEVICES) IS SUCH THAT ANCLEVE 15 SHOULD AT

LEAST BE QUESTIONED AS TO WHETHER HE HAS EVER STOLEN OR

REPRODUCTI

SECRET

TO #No: 1982986

BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE A OMIBITED.

509 10

---

## Page 40

oma

KIte

CARLA BECHITARIAD DNSSEAALAFIOM

_BEGRIT

O string

• 10 по

NO COPY

(cope wat

EGRET

CITE DRICTOR

PAGE THREE

913131

KNOWINGLY RECEIVED EQUIPMENT STOLEN FROM VOFIRY.

HAS HAS NO DETAiLS ON ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES AND GANGSTER

ASSOCIATIONS OF ANCLEVE- 15 NOT ALREADY IOWS TO STATIONWAE.

PURPOSE OF SGSWIRL QUESTION WOULD BE DETERMINE CONCLUSIVELY

THAT HE HAS BROKEN OFF COMPLETELY WITH

GROUP

AND THAT HE NOT CURRENTLY INVOLVED IN ANY ILLEGAL ACTIVITY

WITH

GROUP WHICH COULD CAUSE

EMBARRASSKENT TO U.S. GOVT, SUCH AS SMUGGLING

3. REQUEST JUWAVE ADD ANY ADDITIONAL COMMENTS WHICH COULD

USEFULLY CONTRIBUTE TO AMCLEVE 15 SGSWIRL.

END OF MESSAGE

i Comont Blokos for further decalla on topica on onch Hu decred

AMCLEVS- 15 be tested.

AN RASMIO COPICHN

SECRET

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THI ISSUITO OFFICI IS PROMIBITED.

---

## Page 41

SOUTING ANDY OU MUTALS • BACH EY

BICRET

DATE

CAME

ОСАВЧАВАТ ОСВАННЯАТОЙ

PUR.

#TEEN TE

BRANCH

то COPY

BICRET

PAGE FOUR

-_fpice)

01313,

WH Comment:

OFIR equipment and whether past Involvement 1

llegal activities make him vulnerable to blackmail

**Asked permission SGSWIRL, AMCLEVE 15. Stated testin

ould be restricted to whether he had in past or wa

currently involved in activity hostile to wOFIRM.

WILLIAN Y. BROE

C/WHD

butler

C/NH/3

REPRODU

SOOROMRATIMO OOPICHRI

SECRET

N HY OTHER THAN THE ISSLING OFFIC.

PROMIBITED.

AUTORA

coPy no

-

---

## Page 42

CABLE STEEPERU DINOS MUNDATION

NOHAUCECO

HOTTED

CHAGUEOMESAGE

¿ECRET

BADLE!

; Whan Filled In)

DUSMODUCTION OF THIS COTT PRONIBITEO

vas D to

CLABBERY TO PILE NO.

ACTION

PLE RIO DRET TO

BRAVEN D

MO COM

816. 8.

SECURE

19646

SEGRET 1726562 MAY 68 CLiE

DIRECTOR

ACTING)

REF: DIRECTOR - 99409

L ALLEGAIIONS AND SUSPICIONS AGAINSI ANCLEVE-!5

DISCUSSED WITH HIM BY CASE OFFICER AND HE DENIES INEM ALL

AUL IS CONPLETELY WILLING, EVEN EAGER, TO TAKE SGSWIRL IN

ORDER CLEAR HIS RECORD.

2O THE 201 FILE UN AVCLEVE-15 FURWARDED BY SWAVE IM

SEPT 1967 WAS APPARENILY STRIPPED DOWN VERSION AND NO PARI

1 PRQ'S EVER RECEIVED: THEREFORE, WE DO NOT HAVE THE FACIS

U: HIS FAILURE LISI BROTHER

_THIS

POINI DISCUSSED WIIN HIM, HOWEVER, AND HE SIATES THAT HE

"DID SCE TRY CONCEAL HIS BROTHER'S SIAIUS BUA MERELY THOUGHT

OF HIS EMPLOYMENT AS LOW-LEVEL AND NON-GUVERNMENT, ALTHOUGH

EMPLOYEES ARE TECHNICALLY GOVERNMENT

EMPLOYEES. IN AMY CASE, MIS ONLY COMMUNICATION WISH

SINCE HIS DEPARTURE

IN FEB 1961 WERE TWO LESTERS

SENT IN 1966, AT JAWAVE 'S REQUESI, WHICH WERE NEVER ANSWERED.

REFERENCE TO SELING BROTHER IN APRIL 1961 WAS DEVIOUSLY

CONFUSION OF EXACI DALES AFTER FIVE AND HALF YEARS. AMCLEVE -15

17 Mar 68 N 1 3549

SECRET

---

## Page 43

CARL! SCHEPAY 0.53

BLOTTED

ap.

CLASSED MIGRACE

TOTE COME

SECRET

; when filled inf

REPRODUCTION OF THIS CITA PATTEE:TED

CRABBIPY TO PILE NO -

I-RE TO FILE 10.

IN BY

10

LABSEN 81

ACTION

BRANCH D

DESTROY D) Bre.

H0 0Om

PACE

2

WAS

S64S SEGRET

TRAINING CAMP

APRIL 1961.

3.: WE WERE NOT AWARE IHAI AMCLEVE- 15 WAS SUS-

FECIED OF MAVING SIOLEN WOFIRM DEMOLITION AND SABOTAGE

ITENS. WE DID NOI ASSUME FRUM MUCA -14975, ON ALLEGED

POSSESSION OF SOME SUCH ITEMS BY AMCLEVE -15, IMAL ME

HAD STOLEN THEM FROM WOFIRM. DID HAS SU ASSUME, OR IS

TREKE OTHER INFO IN IHIS REGARD WMICH

MAS NOT

RECEIVEDO WHAI WAS DATE OF ALLEGED HEFT? SUSSEQUENT

TO LAST SGSWIRL IN APRIL 1966? AMCLEVE-I5 IOLD CASE

(FICER THAT HE BROUGHT

SMALL SUITCASE OF

SUCH IIEMS WHICH HE HAD BEEN GIVEN

BY RECE ORGANIZATION

AND WNICH TO HIS KNOWLEDGE WERE CONMERCIAL ITEMS, NOT

AU AMCLEVE-15 STAÏES HAS NOS ENGAGED IN PASI ILLEGAL

ACTIVITIES AND ONLY ASSOCIATIONS WITH GANGSIER ELEMENIS

VERE AT SPECIFIC REQUEST WAVE CAS CONFIRMED BY MMWAVE-

S6Ó6) AND WERE ALL FULLY REPORTED TO JWAVE. AGAIN WE

ASK, DOES MOS HAVE SOME INFO IN THIS

REGARD WHICH WE DO

NCT ?

• SECRET

---

## Page 44

CABLE SACRETARIA DASINTTTION

MASON VA TRUTHS

BLOTTIO

AETION

CLASSPID MESSAGE

TOTAL COAT

* SECRET

BsRs 8B

(Whan Pilled tif

RIPRODUE ON ON THIS COP" PROMIDITEO

19 DEA.

CLASSIFY TO FILE MON

H-RIP TO MILA 1O.au

PILE dO CRET. TO

INFO

#MUTINE AND/OR MATIALS. HEEN BE

PAGE

3

S646 SECRET

I APPEARS FROM REF AND REVIEW OF TRAFFIC SINCE

START

• OF CONSIDERATION OF USE AMCLEVE-15

THAT

•MAS. IN POSSESSION DEROGALORY INFO NOI KWOWN

WE SUGGESTED THIS IN MVCA -14978 AND REQUESTED THAI WE

EE PROVIDED WITH

1 ANY SUCH INFO. DIRECIOR -56598 OF 2 DEC

1967 HINTED AT SUCH INFO HELD BY HQS AND PROMISED DISPAÏCH

WITH HES COMMENIS OTHER ASPECIS THIS CASE, " BUS DISPAICH

NEVER RECEIVED. SGSWIRL OPERAIOR SIAIES IL DIFFICULT IO

RUN MEANINCFUL EXAM ON SPECIFIC POINIS OF CONCERN TO HQS

WIIHOUT ALL FACIS. IMEREFORE, REQUESTS

A• DETAILS OF WHAT ANCLEVE- 15 DID LIST RE

HIS BROTHERS ONAPRQ, AND REQUEST BY SUWAVE 1O

INITIATE CORRESPONDENCE WITH

RESULIS.

B. DAIE AND DEJAILS OF THEFT ON WOFIRM IIEMS.

C. DETAILS OF ALLEGED ILLEGAL ACIIVILIES AND

CANGSTER ASSOCIATIONS OHER IMAN THOSE UNDERIAKEN

AT SPECIFIC WOFIRM REQUEST

DO ANY OTHER DEROGATURY INFU OR ALLEGALIUNS

KNOWN TO NGS OF WHICH WE HAVE NOT BEEN APPRISED.

S. PLEASE REPLY IN TIME FÓR SGSWIRL, SCHEDULED FOR 22 MAY.

ST. CRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 45

era.

4У028:

aat

POIAL COPES

SECRET

4521

13 MAY 1968

D

13

mOR D 8088908

NO ENDEA

BUT tO..

- EBARCA

DIO IN CO FILE MO

CONA

RID COPY

- 1-14

19-21-2

LOPS, SEWeL

That and

LUM/COGS, GIlOA,

Tra 9. 9409

AmmisIATE

CITE DIRECTOR

REF:

9588 (IN 08516)

copy pamela'" 801 a

1.

CONCUR SESWIRL, AMCLIVE- 15. IN ADDITION AREAS OUTLINED

REF BELIEVE ANCIEVE SHOULD SHOULD BE TESTED ON FOLLOWING SUBJECTS:

A. STATUS OF HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH HIS BROTHERS, IDEN

A AND IDEN B. IDEN B IS BELIEVED

TO TRAVEL ABROAD®

NOTE AMCLEVE 15 CONSISTENTLY

FAILED TO LIST IDEN B AS EMPLOYED

IN 1961. 1965, AND 1966 ALTHOUGH IDEN B WAS ENPLOYED

DURING THIS PERIOD. AFTER PHONE CALL FROM FAMILY

IN SEPTEMBER 1966, AMCIEVE 15 TOLD STATION JMWAVE OF

IDEN B AND SAID HE HAD LAST SEEN HIM IN APRIL 1961. THIS AT

VARIANCE WITH 1961 PRQ I WHICH SAYS AMCLEVE15 ARRIVED IN U.S.

IN FEBRUARY 1961-

B. REALIZE STATION WISHES AVOID QUESTIONS CONCERNING

AMCLEVE 15 'S EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES WHICH DO NOT DIRECTLY

RELATE TO HOSTILE ACTIVITY AGAINST WOFIRM. HOWEVER, BELIEVE IT

ESSENTIALEN TO CLARIFY DEGREE TO WHICH AMCLEVE 15 INVOLVED IN

CONT..•

MULAIMO COPIER

COORDIMATRES ONVICHAS

SECRET

]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED.

AUTHERETICATIIN

COPY NO

•7.

---

## Page 46

14-00001

40

POIAL COPIE

"RAINSA

11807400918

NO ANDRY

RID COPY

Toloss Frater

• VI

Flore and none tedd

Tarant member

CITE DURECTOR

PAGE 2

THEFT AND DISPOSAL OF DEMOLITION AND OTHER SABOTAGE DEVICES

UNIQUE TO WOFIRM BECAUSE OF POTENTIAL HARM OF THESE ACTIVITIES

TO WORRY. ALSO BELIEVE STATION SHOULD ATTEMPT ASCERTAIN WHETHER

HE FEELS PAST ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES OR ASSOCIATIONS NITH GANGSTER

ELEMENTS MAKE HIM VULNERABLE TO BLACKMAIT.

2. HOS PREPARED CONSIDER LESS RESTRICTED USE OF AMCIEVE-15.

IF SOSWIRL REVEALS NO DECEPTION.

7994097

END OF MESSAGE

COORD:

CI/OPS/

OS/IRD/

WH Comment:

WILLIAM V.

C/WH/3

T

ISLANDED OFFICER

COONDIMATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRO ....TION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING FICE IS PROMIBITED.

WTHUWTICATIN

COPY N

---

## Page 47

•POIAR COPIN

GArDINER

14! 3/!

1 MAY 1468

CARLA AACRITAMAI DISSINIBATION

##.

15

O mA

FAM #4

NO COPY

caliction)

199410 1

CIE DIECTOR

TIMMIDiATE

REF: 'DIRECTOR

IDEN A:

IDEN B:

99409

END OF MESSAGE

20'

WILLIAM V. BROF

C/WHD

C/wH/3Г

PLAINS ORACES

COOROUATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OINER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED,

AUTHENTICATIIN

com no

---

## Page 48

SECRET

AMCIWVE-15

Subject continues to provide excellent infor

mation on the sctivities of CRASH and

CIVISTA-5.

220.00

FROM:

SUBJECT:

HVCA-15438, 13 May 1968

CIGUSTY Operational Reporting for April 1968

SECHLI

---

## Page 49

CAPE SECHETAN! DASSILNATION

AGANCAFOM

IBRUED

BLOTTED

DIBBET BY

ACTIONY

SECRET

(Who Patiend hool

RIPPCOUCTION OF THIS CUP PRAISITO

10 DeD

CLABRITY TO MILI NO.

li

M-4G0 90 91# N0.

DILE RIO 0959.90

119480

7 li

BRANCHO

VIN

Limo.com

FL

SECRET

1020372 MAY 68 CITE

9588

10 MaY 68 # 08516

DIRECTOR

REFS: A• DIRECTOR 71540

201

B. HVCA-15159

1. AMCLEVE-IS HAS PROVED EXTREMELY PRODUCTIVE AND VERY

VALUABLE SOURCE SINCE PICKED UP BY

_STATION FEBRUARY

1983. WE BELIEVE HE COLLABORATING FULLY WITH WOFIRM AND WOULD

NOT EXPOSE, INFORM ON OR WORK AGAINST WOFIRM. THIS DOES NOT

MEAN HE MIGHT NOT ENGAGE IN SIDE ACTIVITIES OF HIS OWN UNRELATED

TO WOFIRM ACTIVITIES WITHOUT INFORMING WOFIRM.

2. BELIEVE GOOD TRADECRAFT REQUIRES HE UNDERGO SGSWIRL

AT THIS TIME. ALSO WE WOULD LIKE REGULARIZE HIS STATUS, REIN-

STATE HIS CLEARANCE AND REMOVE HIM FROM "HOSTILE" LIST SO WE

CAN WORK WITH HIM MORE CLOSELY, LEVY REQUIREMENTS, AND THEREBY

REAP FULL BENEFIT HIS POTENTIAL®

3, WE WOULD PROPOSE LIMIT EXAMINATION TO POINTS DESIGNED

DETERMINE THAT ME HAS NOT, IS NOT, AND DOES NOT PLAN ENGAGE IN

ACIIVITIES HOSTILE TO WOFIRM. OUR ONLY REAL CONCERN IS TO BE :

ASSURED HE NOT WORKING AGAINST US. SINE MUCH OF HIS VALUE

TO CIRASH-4 IS

BASED ON HIS OTHER ACTIVITIES AND HIS CONTACTS

SECRET

• .

---

## Page 50

CARLE SOCRITARIAY DIXSTANRATICA

CLASSIED MERCATA

SECRET

(Whori Filled in)

REPAIDDLE TICH DO THIS COU

TOYAL CONES

OMIBITIO

ANANCACON

I##UEO

#LOTTED

AT.

018610T0

ACTION

MO COMM

Я-MEP TO PILE NO

1948 C.

FEE no Cast to

VR

BRANCH D

PAGE 2

9588 SECRET

AS POINTED OUT REF B, AND SINCE WE ARE OBLIGED

TO MAINTAIN

CIRASH-A, WE WOULD PROPOSE NOT

CONDUCT DIRECT QUESTIONING. ON THIS ASPECT HIS ACTIVITIES•

40 REQUEST AUTHORIZATION TO SGSWIRL AMCLEVE-IS, BUT

WISH MAKE CLEAR THAT WE DO NOT PROPOSE USE EXAMINATION TO

PROBE POINTS RAISED REF A: RATHER ONLY TO ESTABLISH THAT

HE WORKING FOR AND NOT AGAINSTUS.

SECRET

BT.

SECRET

---

## Page 51

14-0000

---

## Page 52

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 53

SECRET

---

## Page 54

15r279t.0A47antk%

TRANSMITTAL

OF

TOCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFRCATION

#|11 SECRET

CHIG

ROUTING

UNIT NH/ 3/V

EXT. 4521

DATE

25. April 1968

CONFEMAYICN COPIES

WH 8

TDCS D8: 315/01471-68

INFORMLATION • SPIES

CI/OPS,

CI/IC. 2,

FI/D. FI/INT 6, IN, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 30

DO 5, CSDO, HH/COG 9

DEL, D/DeL, DDP, A/DDP, CS/RF

DATE OISFAILUTED

PRECEDENCE

-25 April 1968

DISSEMINATION

NH/Reg:

WH/3V

M/CA

WH/00G

9

WH/R

IMWAVE

WIVEI

EVALUATION

X ROUTINE

BASED ON IRD, EP8., MOL)

9453 (IN 97611)

HVC- 4762

N. P. (AMCLEVE-15)

_FC, Para 1 (AMIFF-1)

LIAISON 3

REQUESTED

STATE

-NAVY

All

OF

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

NO' FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLSO DISSEMNO DISSEM ABROAD

RECOMMEND FOR EXO

BASIC DOCUMENT HAS NOT BEEN MADE AVAILABLE TO DCI•

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTMENTICATING

AC/WH

CLASSIFICATION

COORDINATING OFFICERS)

WH/00G/RR (b4 akone)

SECRET

1 кд

COPY NO.

---

## Page 55

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 56

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 57

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 58

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 59

14-00000

• SECRET

(EiaAr18-0814!

cam comente)

---

## Page 60

14-00000

00901

471/3/8

ENT.

4521

MATE 25 APRIL 1968

CAME ARCHETARIÃO DISIHAITIATION

48

WH8

TOTAL COMPE

SECRET

(JDE8P7OS

DJ to m08

11 PHE AERPRIMO.

TVEN 10-

BRANCH

P7E TO

to COPY

(aste ená time filed

25 23

10 Z

CITE DIRECTOR

945.78

JMWAVE

REF:

9453 (IN 97611)

4762 (ZRWAHOO)

REFERENCE DISSBMINATED IDCSDE 315/C1471-68 WITH ADDITION OF

PARARPH 7 AS TOLLONS, "¡HEADQUARTERS COMMENT, IN JUNE 1967, A

USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT

GOVERNMENT LEADERS,

INCLUDING THE MINISTER OF INTERIOR, FAVORED FORCEFUL ACTION AGAINST

CUBA. THIS ACTION WOULD INVOLVE COMMANDO RAIDS AND AERIAL

BOMBARDMENTS. SEE TDCSDB-315/02094-6%.)"

END OF MESSAGE

_(pica)

7

COORD: C/WH/R

10ш 0/6

fan

WILLIAM V. BROS

C/WHD

MIRABING COCIE

C/WH/3'

COORDIMATSO OFFSCIOS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

copy no.

---

## Page 61

NO FOREIGY DISSEN

PACER

GES

B7at 9i3 E7:: :k8:

•TION REPORT, DAI PINALLE EVAI

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS-311/03646-68

18 Apxil 1969

COUNTRY Cuba

DOR

SUBJECT

17 February 1908 and December 1967

Identification and. Location®

of Political Prisonera

As of 17 February 1968, the following were among the

prisoners held in galera 34 of la Cabana prison:

Jose Luis Gallareta

Alberto Blanco

Fernando sanchez Amiya

Orlando Castro

Rafael deI Pino Siero

Alberto Cruz

Enrique Arrate

David Salvador

Ernesto de la Fe

Rafael Nenendez Aponte

Sosa Chabau (Inu) •

uis de Pasada

Juan Valdes Morejon

ario Salavarr

GonzaTo Miranda Garcia

srvy Long (U.s. cltizen

serving 30 years

Santiago Verdeja

2.: Except for Mario Salavarria, who has a nearly useless

•leg, all of the above were in

good health. The prisoners. In

C-AN-F-I-DE-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

DCS

O

MAGON CAPORI

MA TORNARON

---

## Page 62

CIGUSTY Operational Reporting

for March 1968

EVCA - 15368, 17

Apxil 1968

75 - 6 - 43/3

ANCIEVE

Subject has proven to be an extremely

valuable penetration of CIRASH, passing to the

Station all the documents which he can,

providing tinaly information on the activitlea

OL CIRASH ARE CIVISTA 5.

220.00

: ÷

---

## Page 63

CABLE SECRETARLY DISSENIRATION

3834414019EO

ADVANCE COP"!

ASSIPIRO MESSACE

SECRET.

820 000 +

(When Filled I

REFROQUE TON OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

CLASSES TO MLE DO-

M-REE TO FLE NO

MILE BO DIET TO

TOTAL CORISES OUTING ADVOR INTALS. SEEN DY

10

DISSE* BY.

ACTION

WH-8

BRANCH O

DEsTROY O) we.

WA/COG-8, CT, cr/ops, Ca/P,

FI, FSTENT-=

9387

SECRET 162056Z APR 68 CITE|

DIRECTOR INFO JAWAVE

16 APR 68 N 92 1 9G

do AMCLEVE -15 WORKING ON CIRASH CASE INVOLVING

POSSIELE SMUGGLING

INVOLVED

IS

ONE OF THOSE

IN

MEMO TO CHIEF CIRASH TO GIVE HIS BACKGROUND KNOWLEDGE OF

PEBBLE INVOLVED

2. HQS MAY WISH BRING TO ATTENTION LNERGO THAT POSSIBLY

ONE OF THEIR AGENTS KNOWN TO AMCLEVE- 15 AND THEREBY PROBABLY

OTHER

SECRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 64

14-00000

H

CABLE SECRITARIAT DESISANATIO

PERBONUNT AUNTES

CSDO

ADVANCE CORY

SLOTPEO

42800

DISB&A A

ACTION

Kimo com

SECRET CRE APR APR CITE

POTAL COMES

SECRET

GROUP:

19530003 as peo

(When Filled in)

H58393 893

DBC1 B0068 2897

REPOCHUC TON OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

тов: 0

Yes U no

CLASSIFY DO FILE NO...

M-HEF TO FILE NO..

IRACEDENCE

PILE RIO CRET 10

INFO.

BRANCHO

DESTROY 90

PILE.

0500, /ances, 0/61

93TH& CLYNER ACTINGS

PRIORITY

RYBAT

DIRECTOR • INFO

REFS A.

9356(11 88953)

9369 (in 84759)

521

201

AMCLEVE-15.

IN VIEW REF C WE ANXIOUS PIN DOWN

BELIEVE POSSIBLE GO TO CIVISTA-S WITHOUT BLOWING

AMCLEVE-15 INFO REF B, CAN WE GO TO CIVISTA-S WITH STORY MÉTHAT

STATION HAS ADVISED THAT|

MAY BE

TRAVELLING

AND

THEY BELIEVE HE PLANS STOP

IN ADDITION OTHER COUNTRIES? WE WOULD TELL

INTERESTED BEING ADVISED SHCULD

APPEAR ON SCENE. WOULD ALSO BE USEFUL GIVE

SOME BACKGROUND

IF AGREEABLE,

WOULD APPRECIATE

BACKGROUND

BY 1508 HOURS LOCALTIME 16 APRIL TO PERMITL

RAISE AT SCHEDULED MEETING WITH CIVISTA -5.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 65

05 %.

.

inte

FUNER

4521

one. 12 APRIL 1968

15 098

Timo.

ToLE MeN 68185067

SECRET

Pai 14°

1710 mOR ! PROTESTER

→ то cory

cilars

1'ORAFM8POM

Toote and time Alea!

13

16 09 7

INFO:

Treferent murater.

CITE DIRECTOR 9 1 3.48

7

AMCLEVE -

REF:

9368 (IN 89759)*

HOS HAS NO RECORD OF ANY TRAVEL

OF THOSE TRAVERLING TO BLOC FROM SEPTEMBER 1967 TO FEBRUARY 1963

AND NAMES OF THOSE TRIVELLING

SINCE 1962 ALSO CHECKED.

NANES

RESULTS NEGATIVE IN BOTH CASES.

END OF MESSAGE

AH COMMENT:

*Reported arrivall

information whether

months.

was

requested

in recent

COORD CAN/

D C/NH/2

12, 053)

ten slein

MILLIAM V. BROS

C/AHD

#n:: +5156 1290598

LSECRET

L 891310.9 1'190 ..

FERPUDUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIMITED.

do it.

---

## Page 66

DISPATCH

(BAS LYRAI

BECRET

Carol, Monters Bentartara si talon

Cular at stasten

TO IS A TOn

PLEN ASEN KENNE

€ BORE

1220d5!

TPOA-29401.

F04-29462: & Faberuay

Doestar

19

ocerprise the notes talen

course be attendod

copíes af these notes sure roded

ngont

ARCLIT- 15.

The courte un partleuift heavy

on emploives, "t

no Mrot three volumas being devoted to 1t rolairaly

Volumes A and 6 aro aloo nostly on emploales, o1th the firt

unt of onch boing a photogriply and Juries, repectaly

olumes 5 and 7 donl with man subjoots as tradaarun, infa

tration 1111ta210n oporatlen, sourity, sarabases, ro

orul manta, sabotage operations, elo.

No coplos of the attratmento aro balas sent to

JaVi; mo dorer to Madgartar as to mother it muld bo

vortello to roprint ana of the neurose for distributle

CHUS AFRICA

ATTACELETS!

Ona copy each of sersa foldara desarided la paragonis eno

DIS TUBUTI CS.

75-4-124

2 89917 1968

HVCA-15345

LAILA TES

BBCBBE

---

## Page 67

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 68

i.=..

→wn..

---

## Page 69

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 70

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 71

CRASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I BIBE BO.

PILE RIO SET. TO BRANCE O

D5700r Dure.

CASIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

MININ MOTIFIED

POTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION FRONIBITED.

ACTION

HAFO

ADVANCE COPY

Unit

TIME

UN T

L RID COPY

SECRET 2820152 FEB 68 CITE

INFO DIRECTOR

9019

20FE: 60225

AKULE

1.

AMCLEVE-15 REPORISI

GRANTED TOURIST CARD

ON 14 FEB 1968 TO

DIRECIOR OF TRAVEL AGENCY

20

REGUEST STATON IRACES

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 72

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 73

.i..-

---

## Page 74

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 75

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 76

14-00000

acnmihaettosnoral ihet. Rsao

nitsa . .*

---

## Page 77

FROt

FXT. 4521

BeA®

•EQUESTED

#DIONLES

ALOURATER

PID/ANALTDID

N18/808

TuBE

D?-#

98.#

64•8

G#-B

07.B

SPILLINO VARUAPICNS TO DE CALCILO

AHA, ALTASCI

SECRET SIN

387631

TUME

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

DAtA

* I0

1? 76, 6°

DATE

INIP8A83)

CHEÉRING

INSTHUCTIONS

..

207. 665 ELE

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

BITEN МАМЕВ

iloberto

FEB 19

1. оз PH °68

RECEIVED

TUAR

VERIFIED

#O1 N0. IF KNOW

779687

RESULTS OF RIOTINGES CHECK

NO FERTIDIAT ODENTIFIAOLE INFGHMATAOU

CARd w918008 B9114.818

INSTRUCTICNS FOR RSQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gured label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

drav a green diagonel line across the

Iteme you do not want.

Balt (use treen) the reproduced index

carda to tedicate:

(a) carde-to be destroyed (mark vita

Brien D and note reador for destruction)

Bramples: document destroyed; duplicate

or leas Informative than retained 1n-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu

ding Intintry "yobol do when card 1a-

cluded all facta contained in the

documene.

Nore 1o Recondo el COI, S5U, CES and CIG

are Ir. RID/ARD, and Chose that exet

inderine eritorie in CSiA T0-11 Are

carlAl la Rao Cl Main IrIes.

rollove there couis to addlelona: in.

compation if value in loose narrlo,

201 CONSOLTDATION

1.

Return tbis form with the card

repro.

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture

cards and the dossier 18 a 201 on

=be subject exiata.

2. For each document to be included In the

consolidation (1.e., copy or cross reference

to be placed in the 201 file

below:

(a) I Consolidato into

201-

(8) → Open 201 file on subject.

959187

fore den

Informalion concerni forcert alll.

Fabile tereoradles

Rary) say to avallatle in BR/OCH

Nore 2.

ATHN

Nim!

---

## Page 78

14-00000

mir de 04

CLASSIFIRO MESSAGE E

SECRET

EBRON/UTIT ROTIPITO

TOTAL COPI

REPROSRFIC PROMIOIIFO

ACTION

7573

B RID COPY

6... O....

SECRET 16233IZ FED 68 CITE UMWAVE 1302

INFO DIRECTOR

ARULE PSALMEN AMCLEVE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE.GIGDCONY

NO STATION TRACES

REF AMCLEVE-15

18F2: 56:530 17

2.

WITH

CONTACT IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL

CURRENTLY RESIDING

AS PAROLEE.

USED

IN EXFIL-INFIL OPS AS REPORTED BY AMCLEVE-15 BUT HE ALSO

OCCASIONALLY REPORTED GRATUITOUS AND MOSTLY UNSUBSTANTIATED

INFO

SECRET

SECREI

I MORE THAN YEAR CLO

4 « COG requerted.

¿...

---

## Page 79

6188 10.

POLE

010 0

•Er.

Disraor O sie.

ACTION

104.8

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

POTAL COPIES

-53

REPRBDUETION PROMIDITEO

BI RID COPY

AOVANCE COPY

Die Duore c

SECRET

153958 FEB 68 CITE

INFO DIRECTOR

CIWRIT

.. REF

":

8893 (~ 41506)

ICC 188 FROM HANK. DODGE NOT KNOWN HERE AS OWNER

TAXI LINE OR OTHERWISE, INTRIGUED BY STORY, ESPECIALLY

LINK L

_ APPRECIATE LEARNING FURTHER DETAILS.

SECRET

SECRET

15F6634. 51 467

A.

AMCLIVE-Is

---

## Page 80

H0008AD€ FOR

2IA 600998.

SECRET

A5à!

TARAVART 1900

ABCSTASY ASSEMARS

Da 0179

com.

2) €07

SECAST

Those ted to ta

Frals 1025 Z

OTI BANCTOR

75107

REF$

INFO: JAWAVE

8095 (IN 49509)*

RE PARA 1 & RIP.

NO HO TRACES.

END OF MESSAGI

"Requested HO traces on

land on his wife

COORDI WH/COG

WILLIAN V. BROE

C/wH/3

SECRET

FEVBOSUCHDN BY CIA THAN TE INFO OPIC I PRONINTED.

soon mo

---

## Page 81

A SECRETARIAT DISSENTIATI

ISSFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

GA*!

куріднь

(When Filled in)

ALPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PAUIUENTEO

ACTANCE COPY

168888

BLOTTED

110

ACTIC

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

• H-ALP TO FILE NO

FILE RIO CRET. TO

1948 C

i cano asi

I no com

SE CRE I 142247Z FEB

INFO DIRECTOR

PBRUMEN AMCLEVE

REFL

8895 (N 49509)

La NO STATION OR AMOT IRACES

68 CITE JMWAVE 1269

15FEB60:.5/208

...

20 NO IDENTIFIABLE STATION TRACES

SECRET

BT

...

SECRET

n.......ise

=

---

## Page 82

SUeJECT

OF

COCUMENT

SECRET

(thon Filled PR)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

AN ALY 97

•. DATE PROCESSED

12. CROSS REFERREO TO THIS TOLE

DISPATCA OR

sOURCE DOt.

SYMBOL NO.

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYATO. DATE OF INFO.

TO. DISSEMINATIO IN

PA. DATE

DOCUMEPIT DISPOSITION

TRANSFERREO TO

81 FILE NO.

PERTIMENT INFORMATION

DAte

EGALUATION

Ted 14, 1968

SIDES ON THE SURRES

TIERE IS A RESTA:

NUE PHAS 201

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

Pog9 867 use enerrado correass.

SECRET

S.5-

18-808

---

## Page 83

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 84

14-00000

---

## Page 85

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 86

14-00009

BT

---

## Page 87

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 88

I-oocoo

---

## Page 89

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

DATE

grebruary 1968 eas

=0.

Chief, #/3/V

202-300985

FROM: CHIEF, CL/QA

SUBJECE.

ANCLEVE/ 15

VOU TUAT SU THES CONCENT ON CAY TEN CHE NEU REQUE

FLOWE SOR REVER DAME TONS AS SE

AS SO ICATO REQUESTES

CONCURRINCE MIND AT El/OA

IT SONAL: ANO BOYSION TRACE:

CAL INTERROGATION

-ATTÁCHED INFEHENCE

OTHEAS (Sor Henarka)

Receipt 1s acknowledged of your request for cascellation. Pleas

réfer to the requirements of CSI F 50-17 (9).

It would seen most

pertinent in this case.

HORN 889 DeSeRTE carriers

SECRET

adda

---

## Page 90

DISPATCH

Cler, Montain Mailaphere Divlalon

CASANO!

SECRET

PROMISING ACTICS

MARITO FOR MEE

Chlor of Statión

Operational/INCLIVE-IS

BEGHARED - BAHIENCES

BREN CE3 :

DIRECTOR 72580

6748

INCS.14975

ANCLEVL-15 was contaited

agath en 2 February

1968. INCLIVE IS La Willing to provide the Sution vith may linfortio

Chat comin his vay la CIlAsi, anil the stablon has aproed 80 pay Ala'l 100

par month for nch Infor ten.

1n Reference Ag

in stated in Hoference 6, n had Intended to advine him to stay elen o

lt in order not to jeopardise lie position with CIRASt. No will nol

disons this with him non, boverer, and riak esposing the soures, GIriS 15,

to a "hoitlle".

lihile ve would hope, 1f we did tilk to AMCLEYE 15 about

thes activities and anted tin to dailst, tbat he would emiply, ve would

not: be overly murprised 1f he did not.

le are only {00ling ourselves 11

we think that agento, whos se Ilke to conalder wa "control", are telling

na everthing they do.

At the rlak of belaboring the point, 11 18 procisely because he 11

the kind of person that he lo that AMCLSVi»15 l8 able to becone the trustod

confidant of people like CIRatid, CIRdstio,

all of mbon may be connidared sonohat unsavory charsetera out who.

bothar or not ve like it, ran an important part of the security syste

And it la procioely because of ANCLSTi-15Ia position as such a

trusted confidant that we are Intoreated in him.

he 1111 attempt to neertain MCLIVE 15'a notives, as requested in

Reference A, but this tank will be conniderably hampered by our noed to

madle his as a "hostile", anial vill preclude the uce of some of ta basi

ools of investigation; set as the sChilli and the levying of requirements.

ATTACHUNITS:

As statod la para, 5 (ll pages)

DISTRIBUTIOE

3 - CH H0 (4/0840, 5/10)

CROSS PE CROICI TO

HTC4-25159

SECRET

ONFEEL N33

7 Jebruary 1963

75-2-13/3

---

## Page 91

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

188978a010,7

SECREE_

115159

3. No are attaching coples of soço of the roporta that casts 15

paseed at bin firat mooting with a stition ease offlear on 22 January 1968.

Al tbe socond metlag be said be vould try to obtain for ua copies of the

INCLEVS 15 la only nou really sotting douply lato dia vari

having jus: sottled his Innlly lato an aparteent on 1 Febriary

3968, and ho especta to be ablo to furnina a groat doal soro ln the sear

nituru, In apito of the problems laborent in sono of alCLEVE-15°a friand

apa and peripheral activate

roductive and valuable operation pore spoiled list lion 1a going to be a

00, 6+20F4

+08 008808 1071001

---

## Page 92

1900T.

dEfe

BATBI

WHY JEW

R-9494

1: FEBRUARY 1968

SECRET

#*

WHP

RED COPY

D. name no

in CilseS, clari G. ElisTz

PRIORITY

FEB 2

03Z

7 1 51.00

-7.

RET:

A. HVCA 14978*

• Bo HVCA-14975*#

C.

18748-an (IN 36499)

die

IN VIEW REF & WE NOTE NITH ALARM ANCLEVE 15 CONTINUM.

TENDENCY BECOME INVOLVED CLANDESTINS

_ACTIVITIES, AND HIS

FAILURE REPORT COMPLETE STORY TO NOFIRM OR CIRASH OF HIS ACTIVITIES

WHICH HE FEELS HE WANTS WITHHOLD FOR HATEVER REASON. THEREFORE®

REQUEST FOR POA FOR AMCLEVE-15 HAS BEEN CANCELLED AND ÁE IS TO BE

HANDLED AS A HOSTILE PER CSI-E 10-S UNTIL, HIS MOTIVES COMPLSTSY

ASCERTAINED. WE DOUBLY CONCERNED OVER SAME REPORT WHICH LISTS

ITEMS SMUGGLED

FROM JMWAVE AREA BY AMC.SVE 15

INCLUDING DEVICES PECULIAR TO NOFIRA AND NHOSE USE COULD TIE NOFIRM

THIS TYPE ACTIVITY

2. WE HAVE NO OBJECTION TO CONTINUED CONTACT AS A SOURCE OF

INFORMATION ON ACTIVITIES OF CIRASH AVD UZCATEGUI ORGANIZATIONS

AVAILABLE TO HIM THRU THE NORMAL COURSE OF HIS OFFICIAL DUTIES, AND

3I0 OBJECTION TO PAYMENTS FOR INTO RECSIVED. HOWEVER, THERE TO BE

CROCODILA VERS CAPICERS

SARASIE CONCIE

SECRET

FIRENCANI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THEN THI NSVINO OFFICE IS PROMINTID.

---

## Page 93

14-00000

SECRET

DUM BICHITABAI DONNATON

O me Demer

NO COPY

BULA

fine and fire tied

Srael

SECRET

71.548

7

NO JOINT OPERATIONS, NOR REQUIREMENTS LEVIED ON HIM.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENTSE

"Explanation of

station reasons for wantane

AMCLEVE 15 as a

agent

#*Transmittal of CIRASH-15 report on meeting with

UZCATEGUI after which CIRASH-15 was introduced to

AMCL EVE-15

that he (AMCLEVE I5) had brought

infra-red signal devices

(seen by

CIRASH-15) • and was engaged in conspiracyl

_unknown to

CIRASH-A®

***Outlined proposed naments to AMC.EVE 15 and recuested

HO expedite POA

DOORD: CI/OPS

_(in draft)

WH/FI

WILIAM V. BROS

C/WHD

AC/WH/ 3

COOPATI CONSE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHIN THAN THA ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMINTED,

---

## Page 94

14-00009

SECRET

UPDATED BIOGRUPHIC DATA

NAME

DPOB

MỌC

TERNINATION

CURRENT

OCOUPATION

PRESENT ADDRESS

{foctive 26 March 1965 as Training Branc

ostructor. JAV

Sefoctive 11 July 1967 as CI Informant, JiVE

"SECRET

---

## Page 95

intered l'SAry larch 1963:

Ralessed from Active Duty 6 Far So

Information desirod:

I. Confirmation above Information.

?. Dites and status when enterine Army, dates entering ind eidnting Any schools,

troop duty assignment changes, promotions.

status shen laving irry gorvice,

- reserve asslenments.

to Corments on officioncy reforts.

5. inything unusual in file.

- eyes arena.

---

## Page 96

intornd (Sary fareh 1963.

inio snd from Active Dury 6 Per 60.

intomation destred:

contimallon above Infomallon.

".

¿jurrent reservo status and extent obileatiar.

la Correnta on effielendy reportso.

5 Arything inusual in filo.

CIA

---

## Page 97

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 98

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 99

• . s4a"a

A vaver ana me daaae ama a aaa a

a rman tena cane. .

....--——--

MaTIII.............................

•• •

eet..

---

## Page 100

SECRET

25 January 1968

MIMOR UNDUM FORE Chief, CI/ON

SUBJ ACT

201-300985

It is requested that a Provisional Operation

sporoval be cranced for the use of subtect

Station has requested that

prosessing be expedited.

2. The

Station has reviewed Subject's file

nd the documents sent by Headquarters and seas nothin

hat would preclude the use of subject

Significant Information in subject's file concerns

his two brothers who are currently in

he lett

subject has not seen either brother since

in 1961.

C/Ws/ 3/

SECRET

---

## Page 101

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

- PLEASE

TO:

CA/OPERATIONAL ABPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

CHIEF.

INVESTIGATICN AND SUPPORT RIDISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF.

PERSESTER SECURITY DIVISTRY, OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:

(True, non

CRYPTONT.

PSRUDONTH, ARA CA ABIABES

AMCLEVE- 15

X IPROVISIONAL OPERATICHAL APPROVAL

- OPERATIONAL APPROVÁL:

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

CONTRACT TYPE A

DATE

25 January 1968

FROA:

c/ wH/ 3/V

382631

PROJECT

CO/OR PILE NO.

"3009'55 *o.

-8. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVIBIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPRIETANY APPROVAL

COVENT NAME CHECH

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO (leld investilation)

CONTRACT TYPE

&. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

A. U.I. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOME DIMINE INVESTIGATIONI

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHORN DURING INVESTIGAPIONI

C. 19 SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERHMENT INTEREST IN NIM!

D. I$ SUBJECT AWARE DE CIA INTEREST IN M1M9

L. INDICATE AAY LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

P, SUGGEST "COVER PRETENT" TO DE USED IN COMDUCTING PEASONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

DO YOU PLAN TO MAXE SUBJECT WITTINE OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTERESTI

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

SOXPRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN 121 COPIES ATTACHEO

PRO DI, OR COUIVALERT, IN 111 COPY ATTACHIO

NO RECORD

WILL FORBARD

NO RECORD

#ILL FORNARD

NO RECORD

X NO DEROGATORY INFO.

LIST SOURCES CHECHER

NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICED

8. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO I! ILL

#E FORWARDED

GREEN LIST ATTACHEO.

40;

RI

TRACES

X MOM-DEROGATORY

8. DIVISION TRACES

X NOM-DEROGATORY

•. FIELD TRACES

WILL FORRARD

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

x

SIGNIFICANT ERFORMATION AYTACHED

R-529%

SIGHATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

3-83 772 181 1818!

SECRET

TES

NO

781384

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

---

## Page 102

25 Ja×68

MEOWEDUM FORS

subject

Chics, CJ/OA

201 - 300955

1a It 1s requested that a Movisional Operational Agproral be

Eranted for the use of subject

The

_station has majestod

that processire be expeditod.

2. The

Station has reviewed Subjoot's file and the documenta

Son; by eadquartors and 8908 not in that would practice the uad or

3. Significant Information In Subjeotis file concerns his tho brothers

who are currently

subject has not seen aither brother since he left

in

1961.

CWH/3/V

---

## Page 103

108, Do De.

CLABRIDE DO PILE BO.

8 20. -..

Desper. Dero.

CLASSIICO MASSACe E cou coom. 3-1

SECRET

REPRODUCTiON PRONIOITED

us 8

GRID COPY

AOYANCE COPT

CAN IT

18670

SECRET .241443Z JAN

68 CITE

B748 (LYNER ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO JAWAVE

REFS!

A.

HVCA-14978

B. . HVCN-7776

C DERECTOR-56598

1. AMCLEVE-IS CONTACTED 3Y: STATION OFFICER

22 JANUARY. HE STILL WONKING DIRECTLY WITH CIRASH-A

AND WILL ALSO WORX WITH UZCATEGUL, PRESENTLY INVOLVED

IN ATTEMPTS ARREST XEY SUBVERSIVES AND HANDLED CASE

LEADING TO RECENT ARREST

2. IT EVIDENT HE COMPLETELY WILLING WORX WITH

STATION

AT MEETING AMCLEVE- 15

TURNED OVER FOR STATION COPYING SEVERAL VALUABLE

DOCUMENTS

24N61538499

3. SALARY NOT DISCUSSED, BUT STATION WOULD PLAN

PAY AMCLEVE-15 FROM 1, 003 TO 1,500 95. ATCLIVE-15 LiFT

MORNING 23 JANUARY.

FURTHER DISCUSSIONS

WILL BE HELD WHEN HE RETURNS

FOLLOWING WEEK.

4. WE HAVE REVIEWED DOCUMENTS FORWARDED REF & AND

"ECRET

18•4+77.

---

## Page 104

1d-it:i0n

BICRET

PAGE 2

8748 SECRET

SEE NOTHING PRECLUDING AMCLEVE - 15°S USE

REQUEST POA SE EXPEDITED.

SECRET

a 66658

---

## Page 105

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 106

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 107

!

---

## Page 108

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 109

1d-0n0d

---

## Page 110

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 111

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 112

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 113

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 114

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 115

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 116

:0000

---

## Page 117

Y.....

^**—*** ************»*

---

## Page 118

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 119

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 120

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 121

DISPATCH

KRIT

thres, lestern denischere pirision

PROCISSTG ACCOM

NO MEDI HAC MOUTHIO

ONLY QUALIND DISE

CAM AIDEA MADELINO

Chlof of Station

RAFT

Doperational/ALEtE -15

DiNA REWARD ANIMINCIS

REFS. A.

DIRECTOR

Sosus

$$13

$354

MIGROFILMCG

DEC: 1 1 1967

The Station

desires to explain its vicipoint on

clearly because of what could. conceivably be construed

to be a tone

of inpatience in the first line of Reference A.

First of.all, why do

Die DaRt to hire ANCLEr-is? cur obiccrivo is to use him

What we are nos trine to do is to make a CIGOALl oT

1N0T-200 out of ANCLEVi-ls: that is, put him on the payroll as an

advisor to CIRASIA.

hant to be

very clear on this point, since

this may be the cause of readquarters' concern.

ilis role will not be

ANCLEVE -15 is to he used to obtair counterintelligence

information to protect the station and its operations

which is not

made available to the Station

From the interation mailable to us. ANCLEVE-IS seems to

present an alnost golder exportunity tol

station: 1.C..

a cleared

oFiRy agent (who although terminated still renorts to lurily when in

the JUNIl: arca), who is a vellorlaced

"seons to present" because, although he have

confirmation

from CIRAS:-15 that AICH:Vl-15 does in fact hold the

rosition descrihed above, de are of an open mind regarding the

nracticability of his us and no are completely willing to accept any

anternation that nould militate against his socure and trustlul employment

Are entitynder separate cored. 3 PEC 82. CONTINU" 201-300185

DISTRIBUTION:

RAT: -C/NID watt u/s/c

CS COPY

DEC 2 2613/3

[OSPRICH SYMBOL ANO RUMBER

D-75-2-13

HEA - 16078

6 December 1967

CLASSUICATION

MOS FUE NUMBER

8-201-740849

SECRET

---

## Page 122

Badas +0654614684496

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

INCA - 11078

He have chosen do send chas communtention lo dispatch, racher

than by cable demo with referenee li, because do de not vant to give

wide

dissemination to chat night he interproded as a difterence of

opinion begreen the seation and its Headquareers best.

tie do

however, Headquarcers apposition to the nse of AiCllNt-15 has been

consistant since his case was first broughe to our artention.

F'c

assume

that Headquarders and JiAl lase

sonic data

concerniny "CLEVf-IS

which he have not yee received and which

results in leadquarters vies

of

his use. If this

is the case, de hope chae it will le formarded soon

50

that

we can drop the matter.

If on the other hand, Headquarters

objaces. do the concepe of the operation,

we would like to develum a

cordial exchange of views to see if these divergent vious can be

reconciled.

h.

201-500455

TRAGEO

+95400077,70

330 :

+88 80880848 8539946093

*: at 14-t do no

---

## Page 123

SECRET

MICHUTILMED

FEB% 1960

DE=. MICRO. LER.

SPARATE COVIR ATTACIMENT CO

IVCA 14975

SECRET

MICROFILMED

DEC 7-4 1961

DOC MICEO PER

CS COPY

S/C ATT. 1 TO HVCA- 14978

201-300985

---

## Page 124

14-00000

---

## Page 125

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 126

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 127

1A-N0

::wwww/nhowataaitlhaaaroa@-tassra7nsetn2e3atior

-_.=----

---

## Page 128

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 129

14-00000

C8A99IE9 TO PIGt WE

TO FILE

DEFHOP!

859, to area D

Date.

32

ASPION

L. ASSIFICO MESSAGE E

SECRET

RESCE NANT POPIAISO

+188

#EPRODUCTICA

WH8

& RID COPY

D.

50a8T665634-

SE CRE T 052352Z CITE UMWAVE @497

DIRECTOR

REFS:

Ao

DIRECTOR 56598

B.

8417(4005944)

Do ALL PERTINENT INFO RE AMCLEVE/IS CONTACIS AVAILABLE

IN HIS 201 FILE WHICH FORWARDED TO HAS UXST OCTOBER

SUBSEQUENI CONTACIS REPORTED BY CABLE.

CONTACT OTHERE A DRESS IN ANE YES EAT OR

ACCORDING TO ANCLEVE/1S IS RESIDENCE AND SUSINESS ADDRESS

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 130

14-00000

VITAL

Chief ef station

MIC 84 02130

LỌ DUNES MOUSTIO

ONE QUAINTO WIR

j11O WAGE MEANIES

Oriole

ATON TACKET TW

Reference:

0398

Action Reguired: 116

• Per reference the attached documents provide information on the

brother of subject and two other cronies of CIRAsH t

Attachment sherewith & Identities u/s/c

68. CST

Distribution:

1

RI

1 = Chrono

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HVCH 7776

CLASSE KATION

SECRET

OffICE

WH/3/V

ONKC1 87m906

c/ww/3/V

DATE

* Doc.

201-300985

DATE

A DES. 1937

NOS PILE NUMBER

201-300985

ORIGINATING

4521

COORDINATING

LABSTRACT X SEEKI

C0V/3

DAN

11 DoC.

DISPATCH

---

## Page 131

SECRET

& Decarbur 1967

MEMURWDUN FURA CI/BIA

SUPJECT

It 1a soquestod that tho military 201 f1l0 of

muljoct de borrowed from the Department of Army for

our reviow. From recorda avallable to ua ve belleve he

entered the United States Army in March 1963.

SECRET

Fa t

---

## Page 132

14-00000

CLAGOODY TO PILE NO..

• iạe no.

BET. PO SHANEN D

ĐE#

Doe.

rand

3

CLASSIFIRD NESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT MOTIPICO

TOPAL COPIE

REPRODLCTION PROMIGITEO

Іня

D RID COPY

BE COPY

Do Drione Don

SECRET 012228Z CITE

8417

DIRECTOR INFO UNWAVE

REF& A• DIKECTOR 55598

BO MINAVE B4L2(DWO2622)

lo FOR REASONS OF COMPARIMENTATION CIGOAL-I HAS

NOT BEEN DIRECTLY QUERIED, BUT NE HAS NEVER MENTIONED

AYCLEVE-15 AND STATION SELISVES THEY DO NOT KNOW EACH OTHER.

STATION CAN ADD NO 310 DATA ON A'ICLEVE-15 NOT

ALREADY AVAILABLE MAS. STATION RECEIVED REPORT FROM CINASH-IS,

HOWEVER, WHICH CONFIRYS THAT AMCLEVE-IS IS WORKING FOR CIRASH-A

AND UZCATEGUI AS STATED IN REF Bo

3O FOR JIWAVE: DID AMCLEVE-15 EVER GIVE WAY TO CONTACT HIM

PTHER THAN ADDRESS PROVIDEU JIWAVE 9SSG8 WOULD PREFER

•TELEPHONE HIM IF POSSIBLE TO ARRANGE FIRST MEETING.

SECRET

4DEC 67 1 0 5744

SECRET

---

## Page 133

14-00000

dISARADE MORAS

10IA4 60948&

•SECRET

сею

1h78389

#h0,

DArR

$521

I DECEMBER

1967

CADLA-NEREIARIAS DISSEMIRATION

32 me

B7.

"Come

BAAAAGA

D 1680'0

NO INDEE

ro

RID COPY

12190

• Plate one hume fled)

{0.8008

Tratererco Tonior;

CITE DIRECTO 6 5 9 8

7

REF:

3398 (IN 03338) *

15 YOU REMLY FEEL THiS IS NECESSARY

UNDER GIRGUMSTANGES APPROVE STATION CONTACT AMCLEVE-15

14OTE UNOW ANGLENE -LE AND VALE NEILA? MI

FOR ELICITATION INFO ONLY.

PLS FORWARD PERIODIC STATUS REPORTS.

PROCESSING POA. ADDRESSEES PLS FORWARD UP TO DATE TRACES;) AND

BIO DATA. FOR INHAVE: FORWARD CONTACT REPORIS SINCE TERMINATION

AMCLEVE-15.

2. DOCUMENTS ARE BEING FORWARDED 4 DEC PRIMARILY TO ILLUSTRATE

CAUTION TO USE IN DEALING WITH HIM. DISPATEN FOd IT AQ

COMMENTS OMMAX ASATITS THiS LANE. END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment: *Station reiterates desire have AMCLEVE 15 as agent.

Station believes need pay only supplement

to

salary. Requested expedite documents and POA.

COORD: C/WH/COG

WILLIAN V. BROS

C/WHD

AC/WH/3

COOBDIMATINO OFFICIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

C27 10

---

## Page 134

CRABBIDE TO PILE NO.

7

CLASSIFIED WESSAGE

SECRET

PEPEEOIGNIT NOTITLE

23)

REPRODUCTION PAOHIBITEI

$

ACTION

83 RID COLY

ACE COPY

1198000

FILE, URi COME,

SECRET 3@1738Z CITE

8398

DIRECTOR INFO JAWAVE

REF& A• IMWAVE 0422

buen

02672>

3• DIRECTOR 47965

1o REF. A REINFORCES SIATION OPINION AMCLEVE-15

WOULD PROVE VALUABLE AGENI.. MIS SALARY OF 703 DOLLARS

FROM CIRASH SUGGESTS STATION WOULD NEED PAY ONLY

!

SUPPLEMENIARY AMOUNT.

2. HAVE NOT YET RECEIVED DOCUMENTS ON AMCLEVE- 15

MENTIONED REF DO PLEASE EXPEONTE THESE DOCUMENTS AND FOR. I

SECRET

SECRET

ACTINGS 30 HON 67 IN 03338

---

## Page 135

14-00000

---

## Page 136

1.°

:'?::.

:..:.

:. . a

..

Foi.:

---

## Page 137

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 138

S-REE TO PILE MO.

DESTROY

CLASSIFITO MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSOR UAIT ROTIPILO

2

REPROOLETION PRONAI

wH.S

A RID COPY

FILE VR WHICOE8

SAGTE CORE

Dans Dror

UNIT

SECRET 311525Z CITE

8213

DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE

REF& DIRECTOR 47965

lo WILL NOT CONTACT AMCLEVE-15 UNTIL HAVE HAD

CHANCE REVIEW DOCUMENTS BEING POUCHED.

2. IMPOSSISLE KNOW WHAT AMCLEVE-IS SALARY WILL

BE, IF ANY; BEFORE DISCUSSIONS WITH HIM. PREVIOUS

HAS RESERVATIONS THIS CASE WERE BUDGETARY, BUT WE ASSUMED

BASIC PROBLEM HAS SOLVED WHEN UMWAVE ADVISED THAT

AMCLEVE-15 WOULD BE PAID BY CIRASH THE SALARY HE FELI

HE HAD TO HAVE. IT MAY BE THAT STATION WOULD NEED PAY

ONL Y TOKEN AMOUNT, WHICH COULD BE TANEN FROM CIRASH

BUDGET, BUT ONLY DIRECT TALKS WITH AMCLEVE-IS WILL GIVE

US THE ANSWERS.

SECRET

SEGREI

310cт67883569

Td.....

---

## Page 139

I-DED TO PILE

0x0r0r Dare.

aristo

CLASSIFICD MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL CON101

(24)

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITIO

50288

S RID COPY

Does DanO

300C 670 82922

SECRET 302301Z CITE JMWAVE 9996

INFO DIRECTOR

AKULE PBRUMEN

REF:

1o

8198(04 81988)

UNWAVE RECO LETTER FROM AMCLEVE/IS ON 30 OCT 6%

AMCLEVE SAYS HE WILL SEGIN WORK ON I NOV.

20 ACCORDING AMCLEVE/IS NOMINATION OF CIRASH/A AS

DIRECT OR

DELAYED BECAUSE CIRASH/A'S POLITICAL

PART Y

IS IN TROUBLE.

3.

IS ALIAS OF AMCLEVE/ 15°S

JMWAVE CO.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 140

UNIT, Day 3YV

EAn Ý521

'ar? SEPT 1967

¿ABLE SICTEPARLAT DISSIAUMATION

TONPI

TO

ASISAGE FORMA

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

• 5Y05X

• NO NOI

RETURN TO

FILE IN CA FILE NO.

PILa

(aaro end Time liled)

5: 8 20:412

claihi -

BRANCh

FEE ALO

Peters:

Treferenco Rusted

34096

7

INFO JANAVE

REE A. JMWAVE 9138 (IN 46714)*

B. JNWAVE 90SO (IN 44174) +

+75617447458

I. . HOS BELISVES THAT, IN VIEW UNSETTLED

SITUATION AND

VAGUE AND UNSUBSTANTIATEO NATURE AMCLEVE-15 JOB POSSIBILITIES, NOT

ADVISABLE MAKE FINANCINE CONMITMENT, TO A-15 TO ENASLE HIM RETURN

SHO ID A-15 RETURN ON HIS OWN AND

DETERMINES HE

HAS OPERATIONAL POTENTIAL, POSSIBILITY OF WOFACT EMPLOYMENT CAN BE

RECONSIDERED.

2. ADDITIONAL. PERTINENT INFO PROBABLY NOT AVAILABLE JMWAVE

3. WILL POUCH DETAILS.

AILRASINO OFFICER

END OF MESSAGE

_COORDIMATINO OPPIERES

SECRET

estaulering

REPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTEATOA

---

## Page 141

ROUTING AND'OR NBANG - BEEN BY

177.

BATE:

CALLS BOGASIALLAT DISSLAUMATION

TOTAL COMEB

SECRET

186082

→ NO AT

RETURN TO.

FIA RID

PILE IN CA PIANO.

HID COPY

Spice

date ond tie lied

CITE DIRECTOR

3406

WH COMMENT:

*REF gave AMCLEVE-15: PRQ data.

Stated JNiWAVE had no

further info indicating possible security problems

**A-15 stated

job paid about 250 dollars per

onth which ne clains too little to live

ould be willing work for

Station in

per month.

I had total income approx 600 dollars

COORD: WH/COG/MO

WH/3/V

(in draft)

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/ WHD

C/WH/3

COORDiMATING OrPIERS

SECRET

REPSODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

coerna

---

## Page 142

ta-inden

1n. Ouis DI

CLADBODY TO DILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE!

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

12

ACTION

WHS

ADVANCE COPY

& RID COPY

INFO

IE VR, WH/<068, CI/OPS, CI/0A

SECRET 11I655Z CITE

7775

J'WAVE INFO DIRECTOR

ACT

REFSE AN SINAVE 9177 (44458495)

Bo DIRECTOR 34096

lo IN VIEW REF B, STATION WILL HOLD CONTRACT OFFER IN

ABEYANCE UNTIL HE IN PLACE.

2. SUGGEST AMCLEVE-15 PHONE OR CABLE

AND OBTAIN DEFINITE COMMITTMENT WHERE HE TO WORK AND EOD.

SECRET

BT

67049565•

mas at

---

## Page 143

O no.

66A$9108 TO SIL8 D0.

Per ado

Distor Osie.

25/21

Action

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT POTICIEO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITED

ADVAPCE COPY

Wk s

1 RID COPY

Onere Oron

SECRET 082146Z CITE IMWAVE 9177

INFO DIRECTOR

REF$

1756 (IN 43455)

NOT CLEAR IF INWAVE SHOULD MAKE AMCLEVE/ 15 REF

OFFER OR WAIT UNTIL

STATION OFFICER ARRIVES MIAMI

MID SEPTEMBER. ALSO WHETHER CONTRACT HINGES ON PRIOR

OBTAINING @ JOB

PLEASE ADVISE.

SECRET

8 SeP 67 N 48495

SECRET

---

## Page 144

TO

DISPATCH

Chief,

WH

chiof of Station

CLASSAFICATET

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCESSING

MARNID FOR LINING

HO CHOCO REQUIRES

DELY QUALIFID

MIAIQULNTLAS DUSA

CAM ROGE ENDEXINO

ABSTRACT

ACCOM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, MHAVE i

TYPIC/ AMCLEVE/Operational

Forwarding of AMCLEVE/15's 201 File

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference:

JMWAVE 9138, 6 Sept 1967

Attached herewith as Attachment 1 is AMCLEVE/15°g

field 201 file.

Forwarded under separate cover as Attachment 2 19

the true name portion of AMCLEVE/15'g 201 file•

Attachments

1.

As

Stated (H/W)

2.

As Stated (U/S/C)

Distribution

- C/WH/COG watts #1 hw, 12 u/s/c

2 = COS

watts #l hw, 42 u/s/e

c04/370

CROSS REFERENCE TO

• e6ы

i: 1

Erase.

*=3 ar578!:

4:95-0. 19 159

GLASIFILANICN

SE CRE T/RYBAT

DATE TYPED

DATE DESPATCHED

y Sept 67

SEP - $ 1957

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-28432

HLADQUARTERS PLE MANSER

• 201-300985

---

## Page 145

He Due DI

CLASSIFY TO FILE DO.

#: HER TO

FILE

no.

PLEAD

AfT.

DESTROY

Osie.

CLASSIFIED MESSLEE

SECRE

03078/1788 BATTENED

A PRECTION PROMIDITED

PaRO

FILE, URI WAtEr

UNIT

& RID COPY

alops. ales,

MELBAZ, CU F. GlINT2

SECRET ATISIOZ CITE

175 6

UMIAVO INFO DIRECTOR

REFS IMHAVE 9138(440704)

1. STATION WILLING ACCEPT ANGLEVA-IS NOR ONA-RIAR CONTRACT

AT SALARY §35A PER MONTH

AND RETURN AIR FARE FOR

ONE. CONTRACT REVIEWABLE AT ANY TIME.

ALSO 3e-DAY TERMINATION

CLAUSE AT STAIION OPTION.

20 WOULD HOPE THAT AMCLEVE -15 CAN REESTABLISH RELATIONSHIP

AS LATIER MAY SOON BE NATED NEW DIRECTOR

AND IF NOT, HE WILL PROSABLY CONTINUE PLAY IMPORTANT

APPARAT US.

ROLE IN

SECR

ET

BT

556221

---

## Page 146

*I DO FILA NO.

to pier no.

Die:

PRANCH O

15..

CLAS

SITIEN MEISAGE

SECRET

PTOSONIUEIT HOPEFITO

NOVARCE CONT

S2111

19

BAT 8A8%

• BEEN Q

COPY PAOMIRITIO

02x

**..

to me

A RID COPY

FILE, VR,

WHICOG 8

ACTION CHANGE

IMWANE: 913%

ISTATION ! NUDEN

ACTION

C/S CONMENT: THE ACTION RESSPONSIBLITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS

BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM

:

UNICES

DOVIBBON:

TO

DIVISIONI

BY

IN COORDINATION WITH :

1657

1521

(NAME, DIVISION. AND EXTENSIONS

SECRET

---

## Page 147

5688180 99 912ë t6.

Put iro B

destror D.sie.

SLASSIFICO MESSAGE P

SECRET

TERROR SHIT POTENTIO

L Coper

K/s

АСт:

COPT

WH

CORID COPY

e 1, н/со6 8; сов, с1, 9

SE-CRET

0515A0Z CITE

JAWAVE INFO DIRECTOR

REF&

AO JAWAVE 90SO (IN 44174)

B. DIRECTOR 32719

STATION

INTERESTED. PROPOSITION CONTAINED REF

67 N45532

Ao

2. REQUEST UMWAVE FORWARD SCONEST PRO DATA: EXACT DIVISION

FOR WHICH HE WORKING:

NAME OF CHIEF AND NATURE

CF J 0B.

3. STATION OFFICER PLANNING BE IN

INTERVIEW AMCLEVE- 13.

SECRET

BT

MONTH AND WILL

---

## Page 148

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 149

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 150

-ady

CLABBERY

or D

30

ACTION

IRTO

mer, io asaten Ol

CLASSIFIED MES

SECRET

ET RID COPY

ADVANCE COOT

Dianeo.

Die

SE-O

T 012138Z CITE JMWAVE 9080

INFO DIRECTOR

REF$

1600(141504)

AMCLEVE-15 HAS NOT DEFINITELY MADE UP MIND TO RETURN

TO

HIS 103

WHICH HE SAYS STILL AVAIL-

ABLE TO HIM PAID ONLY ABOUT 250 DOLLARS PER MONTH WHICH NE

CLAIMS TOO LITTLE TO LIVE

WHILE

MIGHT BE ABLE PROVIDE JOB LATER, HAS NOTHING

NOW. THUS

AMCLEVE-15 ACTIVELY SEEKING JOB

2• AMCLEVE-IS SIATES WOULD BE WILLING GO BACK TO

OR OTHER JOB

TO WORK FOR WOFACT, BUT WOULD REQUIRE

TOTAL INCOME APPROX 600

DOLLARS PER MONTH DUE

COST OF.

LIVING•

3 WHILE AWARE EXTRA WOFACI INCOME COULD CREATE COVER

PROBLEM, PERTINENT TO POINT OUT THAT IN YEARS WOFACT EMPLOY-

MENT AMCLEVE-IS MAS NOT BEEN UNDULY CONCERNED ABOUT MONEY PER

SE, THUS DO NOT BELIEVE HE PLAYING MARD TO GEI. FURTHER,

MWAVE AGREES THAT WHILE WORKING

HE WOULD BE A

GOOD ASSET FOR WOFACI.

4.

PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER

WISHES PICK UP AMCLEVE-13

le time

et thes, boun

16.

SECRET:

' .

---

## Page 151

sECRaT

PAGE & UMWAVE 9080 SECRET

ABOVE BASIS•

SECRET

BT

500220

io, torine,

---

## Page 152

#IE# #D.

sie:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

2522

3R0O

шр'а

ET RID COPY

INFO DIRECTOR

REFE

7156(0W47445)1

NOT CLEAR IF UMWAVE SHOULD MAKE AMCLEVE/iS REF

OFFER OR WAIT UNTIL

STATION OFFICER ARRIVES

MID SEPTEMBER.

ALSO WHETKER CONTRACT HINGES ON PRIOR

OSTAINING @ J0B

PLEASE ADVISE.

SECRET

BT "

SECRET

0 SeP 67w 48 495

---

## Page 153

TK/3W

RAT:

BATtE

₫ 521

31 AUG 1967

CANS SACRETARAT DISSEMALANICUN

MEC!

I ES PHRA

RID COPY

WHR

SECRET

NAVE

MASSAGE PORN

TOTAL COPiEl:

SECRET

D

then it

• No NeE

FILL

Coate

SiP. 1 22 20-Z

marance number)

32719

7

FIFF

B.

7694 (IN 41304)14

1. BASED: ON INTO CURRENTLY AVAILABLE HQ NO OBJECTION TO STATION

CONTACT WITH ANCLIVE- 15 PENDING CONFIRNATION FROM OTHER STATION SOURCES

HE ACTUALLY WORKING

JAND IN WHAI CAPACITY, IF CONTACT.

DESIRED' ANCLEVE- 15 STANDARD CLEARANCE PROCEDURES MUST BE INITIATED.

2. CAN

DISCREETLY CONFIR

JOB?

3. REQUEST WAVE DUPLICATE FIELD 201 SOONEST AND SEND TO

AND HQ FOR REVIEY, RE REF, B. DOES WAVE HAVE ADDITIONAL INFO FOR

SUGGESTING CAUTION IN CONTACT WITH AMCLEVE 15?

END OF MESSAGE

Better-file A-15

ПОНАБНО OPPICE®

SORRAYNG OFFICIES

SECRET

HOU

dews grating

REPZODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATIO

OFFICER

. corne

---

## Page 154

BOUTINE AND/OR BATIALS - SEEN 8Y

TOTAI COPESI

SECRET

UNit

DATE:

CADLE SICHETANIA! DIESZANMATION

PILA #X7

[ to mate"

CONF

no copy

(date and Phone fole!

(alise)

Goference member.

32719

-belleves to

station advantage to bave. contact

with A-15.

Rejects Wave objectionsl

Requested WAVE tell A-15

wants

contact hin. " Requested into re retura A-15 to

and infó for contact.

COORD: C/WH/3/V

7

BREASTLA QUAGRE

COOFDIMATINO ORACTES

SECRET

RESSODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTMINTICATING

cort No

---

## Page 155

14-00000

FLASBIDY TO FILE NO.

DET. TO BRANCH D

-CLASSIFICO MESSAGE E

SECRET

PERSON/UNST NOTIFICO

REFRODUCTION PRONIBITED

ACTION

INFO

HILE, VR.

EI RID COPY

Here OrosE

SECRET 11ISSIZ CITE JMWAVE 9203

DIRECTOR®

REF A JAVE 9880

(le took 83-4)

Keed, cas.

pils

11 SE 67 # 49694

B DIRECTOR 34896

lo

ANCLEVE-IS HAS DEFINITELY DECIDED NOT RETURN

FOR

JOB WITHOUT ASSURANCE SIMULTANEOUS WOFACT

EMPLOYMENT

DUE LOW SALARY MENI IONED REF A.

2. WE READ REF B. AS INSTRUCTION TO UNWAVE TO TELL AMCLEVE- 13

THIS ASSURANCE WILL NOT BE FORIHCOMING AND THAT HE CAN

INTENSIFY SEARCH FOR

_EMPLOYMENT. PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

BT

SECRET.

→ stan

---

## Page 156

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 157

MISBAOS PORTA

• POTAL COPIESS

SECRET

20

"HOUTING AND/ON IH.TIALS • BEEN OT

81ir. 171/3/V

BaTe

4521

SAPE 24 SEPT 1967'

CABLE DICRATARIAT-DIBSIDUNATION

1r122

COMP.

FILE 81D

(alise)

(reteranco

35982

CITE DIRECTOR

TO

•Sip 15 20

12'2

INFO& IMWAVE

REF A.

7805 (IN 51649)*

DIRECTOR 34096**

1.

BELIEVE ANY FURTHER JMWAVE ENCOURAGE ENT AMCLEVE-15 SEEK

JOB MAY BE INTERPRETED

AS IMPI: CIT COMMITMENT OF WOFACT

EMPLOYMENT

WISH AVOID ANY SUCH MIS-

UNDERSTANDING WITH ANCLEVE-15 SINCE NO ASSURZCE HE WILL BE OF

SUFFICIENT OPS POTENTIAL TO MERIT EXPENDITURZ STATION TIME AND

MONEY.

BALEASING OFFICIA

COCEE: YAYING O1FIC89)

SECRET

REPSOSUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMICITED.

AUTHNTCATMO

copy на

---

## Page 158

FOURAG ANDOR MITALS - SEEM BY

0e

MASBAGE POEMS

TOTAL COPERI

SECRET

LA AECALTASIAT DISACAUNATIONN

80:06.2

I NINE .

DESTROY

#ETURN TO

BRANCH

FALl Me

no com

PAGE 2

• (aliso)

(reteranco fumber)

VITAL TO

SEEK

CALL PER

UNESSS NS HAVE MISSED SOME POINT WHICH MAKES AMCLEVE- 15.

OPS PROGRAM PREFER JANAVE NOT ENCOURAGE ANCLEVE-15

JOB. HOWEVER WE DO LiT OBJECT TO TELEPHONE

REF A.

END OF MESSAGE

Merelen

•C/WHD

RELEASINO OFFICIA

c/wn/coir

COORDINATiNO OFFICERS

SECRIT

sentena ding

REPROJUCT, LY OTHER THAN "HE ISSUING OFFICE! MOHIBITED.

AUTICANO

COPY NO

---

## Page 159

# 0$

CLABBIDY

TO BILE TO.

*188 n0.

DE SPRQY

D 810.

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE E

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIPILO

90T81

Co0 18

REPRODUCTIOH

ACTIO

ORD COPY

ADVANCE COFY

O....ee O

S.E CR E.T. 181608Z CITEL

7841

18506m54359

DIRECTOR INTO UMUAVE

REFS DIRECTOR 35982

IN VIEW HEADQUARTERS STRONG RESERVATIGNS

ACTION

AMCLEVE-15, STATION DEFERS TO HAS VIEWS.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

file 201

---

## Page 160

int.

# 188

DESTRON

an atito 1

Dare.

- 15 p00

ACTION

FIFO MESSAGE

SECRET

RESROCUCTION

О ТИВ СОРУ РЕСЛІВАТЕВ

•ERBORIUMIT MOTIFIED

027

Соду

- Drono Duani rodo

19

POUTING A60/08

BEEN #T

INTO

FiLE. V8,

D RID COPY

WH/COG 8.

WHAT

ACTION CHANGE

IN

ISTATION

59289-4

fin meage!

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE: HAS

BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM

chacke

:

TO

BY

IN COORDINATION WI.T:

30913+0

WHt

Corvistori

4521

CHAME, DIVISION, ANO RATENSIONI

SECRET

Ві ії!

---

## Page 161

ger o seras Les no."

=, .

LOCALES PAREDOR INGUADRIDOLLE DEDO VIO MECANO ARRANA NES NEGRIN

-?.

---

## Page 162

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 163

14-00000

---

## Page 164

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 165

14-00000

SENa

10819.

sat.

WH/3V

4521

said:

- 300010BIR 296%

BADLE SACHRIATLAI DESLUMUSAIIOD

MATINEA PORT

Ness furt

SECRET

DUTIES AND DA IPTRALA.

D ma

RID COPY

CITE DIRECTOR

938292

INFO:

147765

REF $

10 1 81988)

Do HQ INITIATING PROCESSING OF POA FOR ASSESSMENT ONLY.

2. WE RECOGNIZE YOUR INTEREST IN AMCISVE-15, BUT. SUGGEST. YOU

REVIEW CAREFULLY DOCUMENTS WHICH NE ARE FORWARDING BY POUCH.

3. PLEASE FORWARD SALARY INFO. HOW MUCH DOES STATION PROPOSE TO

PAY HIM AND WHERE IN OPS BUDGET NILL IT COME FROM?

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: Station interested possibility pick up

Requested authorization to

"contactl

fof assessment as soon as JMWAVE advises

permanent address

WILL ANY BROS

C/wH/3

COGESOLAFILO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

АМТИТІСАТНО

COPY NO

---

## Page 166

14-0001

d•8

O 10

r..

io to prer no.

#-*=* 99 P118 so.

0815:

ISSINICO WISSACK B

SECRET

PERDON UDIE DOTITTO

ACMON

UNT!

X RID COPY

...O..

TarS

SECRET 281910Z CITE

18190

DIRECTOR. INFO. UMWAVE

280er67m81S88agan

REFS: A. UMWAVE . 9802

(ra 74936)

*• DIRECTOR 327,9

lo STATION DEFINITELY INTERESTED IN POSSIBILITY PICKING UP

ANCLEVE - 15

IF AND WHEN CIRASH-A

IS NAMED

THIS WOULD BE PARTICULARLY USEFUL IF HE WOULD

EE AS CLOSE AS PAST TRAFFIC SUGGESTS IO CIRASH-A, WHOM NEEDLESS

TO SAY WE DO NOT COMPLETELY TRUST •

2Ö REQUEST HOS AUTHORIZAI IO DINTACI AMCLEVE- AMCLEVE-15 FOR ASSESSMENT

AS SOON AS UNWAVE ADVISES OF MORE PERMANENT ADDRESS

VESPERA ONE RES A, LE ANCLEVE-15'S DA CANCELLED, PLEASE REINSTATE

NESSO 0 1512505 FED-AT PRESENT.

3. FOR JAWAVE: MILL APPRICATE CABLE AS SOUN AS AMCLEVE -15

ADVISES PLACE CONTACT CAN BE MADEO

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 167

15

9 757В.

810 1

888.8 8840.

#0:

• 8 9

Dero.

то.

ACPION

BI RID COPY

CLASSIEIEO MESSAGE.

SECRET

BEEMOCUCTION OF

PERSON/UNIT HOPIRDEN

ROVANCE COPY

Done. DuereDer.

1480

FILE, Ver

8198

29 ocr di

8:988

STA & NR

DATE

IN NR

PLEASE CORRECT THE GARBLED PORTION(S) OF THIS MESSAGE TO

READ AS FOLLOWS:

"PLEASE REINSTATE IT BASED ON INFO IN HAS"

SECRET

---

## Page 168

14-00000

10888D01

:ABBIT 99

no.

08T, T0 s00t.o O

sestor: 0818.

CLASSIFUED MESSAGE

ras Conte

SECRET

(NH. 8)

8U RID COPY

0.....

0..

me, VR, IHfaG-8, GI, CJ/ops, &IOA,F≤

SECRET 182122Z CITE UNWAVE 9802

INFO DIRECTOR

AKULE PBRUMEN

REF

Isos (-51649)

1.

AMCLEVE/15 REPORTS TELEPHONE CALL

ON 18 OCT 67.

16'%

1GTNON

2• AMCLEVE/15 PLANS FLY

23 OCT 67. WILL

STAY TEMPORARILY AT HOME

STATION HAS ASKED

AMCLEVE/ 15 TO NOTIFY IMWAVE WHEN HE HAS MORE PERMANENT

ADDRESS AND WE WILL ADVISE

_IF STATION DESIRES

CONTACT, PERSON SHOULD IDENTIFY SELF TO AMCLEVE/ 15 AS

FRIEND

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 169

CLASSINO TO PILE DO.

18* 40.

One.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIF TRO

T0081 COPer 250

PA PROOUETION PRONIDITES

32

1S107

Wits

& RID COPY

ONFO

INE:R, WH/6048, 21/085, 50/162,

ABIGATE COPY

unIt

i B

SECRET 271923Z CITE

7937

DIRECTOR, JAWAVE

1. REGUEST HGS, UNWAVE AND ANOT TRACES

27 SEP 67w G0 95C

SECRET

bT

S! CRET

AMCLEVE -15 friend:

---

## Page 170

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 171

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 172

aaacetai mi -teania ee aaten snuome ie grgen "

ie :i

wwwms.wawdwfatzenteciatisksDe.97f8rst a-t9

en ttear tezarr

---

## Page 173

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 174

ta-intotdos

914 ' **

---

## Page 175

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 176

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 177

14-00000

---

## Page 178

.....i.

---

## Page 179

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 180

14-00000

a.ya ae don gou oa e anpragee arad), nersaro, do alalade do-pepo, oos ierpaat, dee botmor Caooaobloeldo dtee dar dereddaa

Jeuibl.

o ain .n.

.....-.somon

---

## Page 181

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 182

Stuliet.

seit

---

## Page 183

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 184

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 185

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 186

aginan

---

## Page 187

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 188

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 189

, mi sono incarico dese motore mad taxhe dato o cartata, dino co in ...

---

## Page 190

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 191

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 192

..............................

.... .

---

## Page 193

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 194

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 195

- sorine nom

tisi ugu noo

atitia l..

neme in eente n thie es a te ie er ?

---

## Page 196

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 197

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 198

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 199

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 200

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 201

14-00000

-..

SECHET

..

---

## Page 202

lies Dr D

CRASHIFT TO PALE WO.

Chira.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PAOI

467100

INFe

BJ RED COPY

BOTANCE COPY

Ore Desére rose

OR IF

SECRET 2922102 CITE

7694

ONWAVE INFO DIRECTOR

REFS: A. JUWAVE

8866 (en 84036)

3.

798960412468)

chall lay 4 1 504

C. JIVAVE 8997(080 46592)

Onal Quet

1o IT CLEAR FRON REF C THAT IT TO STATION'S ADVANTAGE

desais

HAVE CONTACT WITH AMCLEVE - 15

AS HE COULD HAVE

or mauser

INFORMED US

BEFORE WE HEARD

person/

OF IT

teet

with

::

STATION DOES NOT FEEL REF A OBJECTIONS TO CONTACT

ARE VALID, ESPECIALLY WITH AMCLEVE- 15 WORKING

INLESS JANAVE NAS FURTHER OBJECTION NOT PRESENTED REF A,

REQUEST AMCLEVE- 15 BE TOLD STATION

DESIRES CONTACT

HIM. PLEASE ADVISE WHEN AMCLEVE - 15 WILL RETURN

AND

HOW ME CAN BE CONTACTED.

SECRET

BECRET

ĐT

fare

ffs.

---

## Page 203

14-00000

CRABBIPE TO PILE WO..

PILE. GiO Q. nEP. TO AMATCO D

CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIEO

TOPAL COPICA

,3

REPRODUCTION

PROMIDITED

28

ACTION

AU RID COPY

AOVANCE COPT

Divre D.

URIT

Oruero

SE CR ET 282207Z CITE JAWAVE 8997

PRIORITY

NO NIACT

REF

7668614 39826

1• NO IDENTIFIABLE STATION TRACES

PENDING.

AMOT TRACES

ECRET

---

## Page 204

" .)

• тат

---

## Page 205

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 206

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 207

ALLACIENT dO TO UFGA -28437

• Terr

SECRET

i. :

do bo

Chief of Station, JNiAVE

і кід

NASS

745S

Actim Chicf, MiD

Operational/ PBRUNEN

Interrosation of "CIA Agents" at LASO. Conference-

AT NOT MOUNTO BEFIERROTS

FYI

55z0

The attached is an excorpt from the FBIS Daily

Report dated 10 August 1967 (FB 155/67) concerning the

interrogation of "CIA Agents" at a special session of the

LASO Conference.

86-500

wars

Attachment: h/w

1-Excerpt from FBIS Daily

Report, 10 August 1967

• Distribution:

3-COS, JNWAVE w/att h/w

CROSS REFERENCE PO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ARE RUSSER

UFGN'-6657

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

A HANG TE

PROS FRE BUM 362

201-300985

..

To 11545

---

## Page 208

.:..

meanwhile it dildo Gidd did allergenin

13:

-..9-1dn 1hi:111.

C110: 19116 1011101221011016 Gradide!

L:-05:94:

11120014:.

Matoon treat 1li41d Petuted Pet?

Incoralea: disge delirio done caspered cros diana do 11rde

.1.... lt lee 1e 11hl the leG11016 Deside Did C0i11 119 Co direso

cation: Uns plans vote tide in the triund states to crong ta countercovelatic

1aue.1:1: inil, lie ahpalead elinth taca de dle inicer el lla cuba% cerelutton,

Fiddi Castog.

maveridea.

Goes in:::

I:s. ==r.

Icteris::

C999?dPtihiis des 219:9

c112891 to c.i1 10112e0 teen tre 1s 1110001191 1.

want ritatence.

Citrairs!

it wine.

So 309 96 trant. CH i22 33 3

.6:18te1, 2011009 Eil: CRitiCo Chips 15i.

^. 1: анаї.101:

prora, did details!

2482743356691 222:

1: Car: 11"1091

*"..r. ::.*

ice indi

':'*

1i2t1t1:

canada in some hottie. i c

двік306500. 0194009079214

---

## Page 209

CLASSIFT TO CILE NO. .

I-AdO tO PILA nO.

DESTROr O s16.

CLASSIFICD MESSAGE

SECRET

PRESON-SHIT DETITIRO

ADVANCE CORT

a asd

VILE 8

LY RID COPY

FILE VR

WH/CaGs, Coes

Doortro Droet

21 Auc 67 IN 3600₴

SE CRE I 212103Z CITE JAWAVE 8896

INFO DIRECTOR

DYVOUR PBRUMEN

REF UNAVE 8866 (-34036)

AMOT TRACES NEGATIVE

SECRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 210

A.88 AWA

1 Dre Dr.

#I1& 40.

DESTROY

THON

ACTION

CLASSIFICO NESSEGE - L POTAL COPISI

SECRET

PERSON, UNIY NOTIFIED

ACTION®

UNIT

& RID COPY

Daris Ors

file

SECRET 172217Z, CITE JAVE 8866

INFO DIRECT OR

D YVOUR PERUMEN

REF$

1589(1 32469)

JMWAVE ADVISES NO CONTACT BE MADE WITH AMCLEVE/1S.

HIS NAME MENTIONED AS WOFACT AGENT

HE HAS ALSO BEEN INVOLVED SEVERAL

SHADY DEALS

WHICH, ALTHOUGH UNDERTAKEN AT UMWAVE/FBI

•BF YEST, MIGHT PREJUDICE HIS EFFECTIVE USE.

2. STATION TRACES NEGATIVE

AMOT TRACES

PENDING.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

17 Aus S7 # 34036 \

"..

---

## Page 211

1o8nIi8 0+0-

CLASSIFT TO DILE DAL

Po fiLt no.

-CLASSIFIES MISSAGE F TOTAL COPIER

(<+)

SECRET

"3

ALT(00

TATO

E-RE COPY

One Duer Oil

•E:.

SECRET 1521332 CITE

7559

JMWAVE INFO DIRECTOR

REFS!

28079

B.

JANAVS-3758 (IN 29699)

FROM REF A. INFO AMCLEVE-IS DID NOT APPEAR OF INTEREST

IN HIMSELF TO

STATION. MOWEVER, CHECK OF MIS FRIEND

KEVEALED FOLLOWING: •AMOT-S REPORTED I HAT

AGTINE? & 15 AUG 67 IN 32 469

WAS IDENTIEIED

IN

REPORT OF JANUARY 1967

.?.

IN VIEW

ABOVE INFO ANCLEVE- IS MAY BE ABLE PROVIDE

INFO ON

OPERATIVE

SEQUEST IMMAVE, AMUL

AND MQS TRACES

ALSO, 1E JAVAVE CAN PROVIDE,

WOULD APPRECIATE ADDRESS WHERE AMELEIS-1S CAN BE CONTACTED

SHOULD

DEVELOP ACTIVE INTEREST.

SECR

ET

BT

- coo has sitting

wally has nothin

RI too e

---

## Page 212

ATTACHMENT 01 2o UFG4-25832

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

MEHONANDIN FOR ANCLEVE/15'5 FI1O

SUBJECT: Salary Misunderstanding

ORIGINATOR:

• 11 August 1967

ANCLEYE/15 submitted the attached note, written

by him, to the

•In tho note AXCLEVE/15

he is not asking for onything but wants the records checked

regardine his past salary of $325.00 per month.

ANCLEYE/15

his former CO) told

him that offoctivo Octobor 1906 he would be paid $100.00

per month by bOFACT, llle the balance would be pleced in

a bank for him.

and noy for the rocord ANCLEVr/15 was told by the writer

that eficctive August 1966 (not October)

he would bo cut back in his salary, to approximatoly

$100.00 por month.

He was cut back from $350.00, not

for reasons of oconomy and cover and he was

arrecable to the cutback.

Tho writer did not toll him

that the balance of approximatoly $212.00 was boing

saved for him; only that his gross salary would be

raised to $350.00 in the event RECK ever stoppod paying

him his salary.

(It was assumed that his RECE enploynent

aight be short day nat offective,

For administrativo reasons

Septonber 1966 and

latter date until Docembor 1966 he was paid $111.13.

1967 until June 1967 he was paid $110.90

During the entire poriod, September

196G to June 1967, ANCLEVE/15 was budgeted by JArAVE in

the amount of $350.00 gross with the notation of his

as so promised, bocause he was unemployed during

most of June.

3.

The writer osplained the above to ANCLEVE/15

and he

sconed satisfied.

He told the writer

that ho had

to borrow

some money to

cover expenses in connection

with

his trip to Venezuela,

SECRET

• COPY

---

## Page 213

#SEESAGA PARA

SECRET 1:

WH/Э/v

4521

22 AUG 196%

DILA SCHSTANAT DISEAMATION

RID COPY

08. 7

-: Wh/caes cleos

10'

CITE DIRECTOR 891

7

10: 10 00'7

REF:

7589 (IN 32469)*

NO HOS TRACES IDENTIFIABLE WITH

WH COMMENT:.*

END OF MESSAGE

1S ANCLEVE-15's point of contact

Requested Hias, UNWAVE and AMOT traces.

COORD:;

WH/COG/CT.CS/OS

WH/COG

(telecoora)

AC/WHD

JIC/NH/3

¿ REL'ASING OFFICEA

...

COORDINATINO OFICIES

CROUP T

Ensiuded deso aslemate

conneratias and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

,BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINITED.

ALITHENTICATINNG

OFFICIE

COPY NO.

ilo

472227

---

## Page 214

14-00000

•s auchat 1951

CUBA

dead 21

LASO CSRFIIFNCE

Favana. Donestle Icierialon Service In Smalah 0107 GE 7 lug 67

crficial tee

Chly

Question: that dini of mipors a 1d'you boing fio assasalnationat

sards10a, ye arouche tuo Doretza prazois mart. aalenders, a 22-oal. PlatoR sialia

a silencer, and an My vich a silencer.

Guestion: Uhat lind of amunition did you bring for sho ,22-001, platal with salencert

biscerica; Part of the antunition vas conventional bulleta and part of st was

eganido tipped bullets.

6408t10ns Who prepared the bullets with eganidel

Saucertes: I prepared.them.

Giestion; that vero those bullets prepared farp

Incerloa: Those bullets vere prepared oung there in liant, (Polo--phonecio)

ganda, mentor of in organiration called (181 Reco) asced no to prepare thes, Iri

'ipito of the faot that I know rothing about cheniatry, for attenpts on lives. to

pase gure of the death of the Individuala againat shose lives attempte vere to be

sals, but they were for specifis attempte.

Preston:

What plans were made in the Unlted States or anong the scunterreralutionary

elteles, what is the main objective soughte

Lucerica: joll, the physsent elladnatión of ta ledda of the cuban revolution.

Fidri Castro.

scoreson: Tha physical eliminatico of May. Pidel Castrot

Lasserton. Yes, B1x.

Quest16n:

Thoss counterrevoutlorary eroips which operate from Florida, froy Xiama,

do the, 3990 the 229500a1 of the Morth Auerican Governaent sor their actions? a

Javersica:

Almost entirely.

Por example the most opportunist elemente over there

crete arill groupa to obtain dollars from the US Goverrent for their subsistonce.

but trace ire close linica among all the organisations in aulle with the Central

Intercinance Agency.

We have, for example, the dase of (PEl Rece) which--through

In1r Pesócide who 1s inoun by all as a ClA agent--belonga, that 1s all 1t8 accivitses

of icicano on Cuban coasts, actions agalroi sarchant ships and so forth, are linicod

+9t60 321.-

suestion:"

You cay' that you"had a :22-cai," pisjol with polsóned bullots dor specsrie.:

atIerpEs on lIvest

Lucerica: Yes, sir.

Prestion: I would like you to clarify socething more, Mat specifio attacks,

agalnot which figures, vere those atteapts to de wade with that type of weapon!

''alicoglea: "ell, against the most prosinent figures of the revolution according to

ex' ring circunstances and according to the Irdividuals who were zoing to executo

- ben,

Spocifically, 1t 1s to do supposed that 11 the idea or counterrevolution vere

te taxe rect in Havana, well then ise effort to k1ll lia leader of the revolution

could de intensified.

50: F 315 DIS 155, IC AUG 67, QUO

---

## Page 215

14-00000

TE are Oro

CLABBIFT DO FILÀ 1O..

A-PEP tO FILI NO..

FRE HIS

D

BRANCH 3

ACTION

FIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(What folled In)

PEPNODUCTION

PMIS

FOR PRO

NOTIFICATION 1O

ADV. COPY

INFO:

FUR. Lie,

3758

ROUTING AND/OR

INITiALS SEEN BY

R

:102265Z CITE

INFO DIRECTOR

DYVOUR PBRUMEN

REFS UFGA:29979

FYIS

SUB. PARA 3 REF

(291- 303985) PLANS TRAVEL

EMPLOYMENT THROUGN FRIEND

CONNECTED TV INDUSTRY

SECRET

BT

JEWAVE

1.0 Auc 67 N 29698

6

J12 AUG 6% HOPES FIND

WHO

SECRET

---

## Page 216

VIOLATENL

chief of station, dAYS

SECRET

HAFN(3 130 128133

DO BORENS BIRED

Acting Chief HaD

S intercontion of ClA Arents" at LASO Conferonee

1. The attached is an excerpt from the fBIS Daily

Report dated 10 August I967

'(FB 155/67) concerning the

interrogation of "CIA Agentg" at a special session of the

LASO Conference.

Attachment:

l»Excorpt frow FBIS Dally

Report, 10 August 1967

Distribution:

3-008, JAWAYS M/att. D/T

1 ATT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

: N

CS COPY

APATON SYNT NO INSER

UPGW-6657

CLASSIFICATION

SBCRBT

OFFICE #

8 4 AUG 1007

201-300985

FI

DEST

"ACT

INCE

Distribution:

1-WH/COG/CICS

I -WH/Reg/Q

1-Origtnator

DA YE

201-300985

ORIGINATi25

TYPET

bar 16 1u5

COORD SAI: 40

O5 FICERS MAME

5106

1N

DISPATCH

---

## Page 217

S0 Angio 3088 10 526051

ws.10.271

No amicas tre

nad na 2-3

4 19,

A SOCOl 813 810080-0 22-008: 00803010 00 194

san sia po dei con le canes, ploras nica aist

. 5.,2.17

no stirato vies amore ti do asi so lo sul seco

non timon so in en

tan3..

- 19. 0.00

2232:

3:281- 15:

Quoton

«troles, net do the unia onfontivo songoti

Landrtons 1e11, the Minina alimention ol tho Jente il The Distri nuolation, 3931 1

Fidal Castro..

+330948-097631959 ritag

Eucst10ns The signtenl alta

1191951291

nonsen: Ios. bir.

7,839 in-

marlos: Almost enteraly.

Entall lganon Aponty, No lave, fer

ly Posado, uho 10 lenen sy all 1a

6$ Le ing on Outoa ecanta, detiena o

RECE

1n «tilo ad la t20 Contral

af (911 Beco) whiat-turoug

nt abios and no forto, are 1lno

attenata en 11900!

ancorson, Te, »l».

1.:-74-091

# LA TA

ES COPY

ATT 1 +0 U8610 4657

201-3ca98s

= R 155/6

10 AU6 61

---

## Page 218

SECRET

MEMORAlDU:

TO

: Chief, IO

THRU : Chief-

10/3

FROM : -I0/31

SUBJECT:

AMCLEVE/15's Plans for

Employrent - Bona Fides

Given for Possible KOFACT

Coritact in the Tuture

10 August 1967

HI0-1592

Distribution

•- C7I0

1 - 201-300905

1 - 10/3 Chrono

1 - Registry

ANCLEVE/15 informed the writer on 9 August 1967 tha

he plans to fly tol

on 12 Pufust

1967 accorpanied by

la friend who is employed

_AMCLEVE/15 will seek

employment through

or with an old friend

connected in some way with the TV industry

is also a friend of

2. If AMCLEVE/15 finds employrent

he does

not intend to return|

and his wife and son will then

join hin

3.

If AMCLEVE/15 does not find enployment

he intends to go

to look for

employnent through some of his friends

ANCLEVE/15 was given a recognition

signal for estab

lishing bona fides in the event that SOFACT should want to

contact hin

Jor elsewhere.

AXCLEVE/15 was. instructed

Mend o person would establish bena fides by saying.

He was also siven JiWAVl address

5.

JNWAVE has no identifiable traces

SECRET

GROUP I - EXCLUDED FRO: AUTOMATIC DOIRIGRADINC AND DECLASSIFICARIOI

1064123

---

## Page 219

-TO:

CHIEF, CI/CA

€1/0A nO.

True moy do used)

801'580.

201-300965

PLACE OF GIETN

SECRET

REQUEST SOR CANCELLATION

FROM:

16.

BB/CO0/CICS/08_

X Trees

PROJECT

Мля і кагалерой)

3136.

DEART'S BERVICE RECONO

BLASON:В) DON CANCALLATION

Subject in no longer of Operational Intoreit

to the Station.

RIF:

UFGA 28079, 31 July 1987

101 - 300

985

DATE

Foaн 937

8 Auguet 1987

29 SUBLECT 1S USBO IN ANY CAPACOTT. A NEO

SECRET

1801

---

## Page 220

SECRET

Carlo

5 Angus: 1967

Please Priel me on the Sloal resalt of the ANCLEVS/ 15 C80 PP Wis

Sm eventually antiailed and 10 all nou enla 19

Thank gov,

He The sew me preten witt den

du This casia CT Dis instrustionna

FBI Coul (a sidle He Dustice Legit)

grunt to dis 1.155 titlet lastine

Jess shoes che denung P-150

joe brey.

ditting the file stil ill thi bust

rittie..

Cal

Thanks. Peas stair far

his fife ..

Flauh, Jou

titu

---

## Page 221

CLABHINY

Dus On.

#0.

010 D

#aT.

CLASSIFICD NESSAGE

SECRET

PISSOR VOIT BOTTFITO

PeRCUTION?

DVANCE COPY

BRID COPY

WHlecys

icles a/62. elsop3

RS

2 AuG 67 N 24285

SECRET

022306Z CITE JAWAVE 8577

DIRECIOR INFO

KAPOK

REF &

DIRECTOR 24039

STATION WISHES TO CORRECT THE RECORD AS FAR AS LAST

SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH ONE OF REF IS CONCERNED. WHILE

AMCLEVE/19 IS NOT A PARAGON OF VIRTUE HE CANNOT BE CLASSIFIED

AS UNSAVORY CHARACTER• MIS INVOLVEMENT IN SHADY DEALS IN

THE PAST TWO YEARS RESULTED ALMOST ENTIRELY FROM STATION'S

(AND EVENTUALLY FBIS ENCOURAGEMENT. ME FOLLOWED DIRECIIONS

AND REPORTED FAIRLY WELL•

SECRET

DECRET

BT

---

## Page 222

1d€ =0.

#-8**.0

BIR BO

Basreer D die.

-CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

889801-0791

NOTIFIED

AEPION

RS

" " ESEC

Dinerso

SECRET 022200Z CITE JAVAVE 8569

DIRECTOR INFO

Z Auc 67 N 2 4 28g

KAPOK DYVOUR

REFS:

DIRECTOR 24039

DIRECTOR 24439

1• FOLLOWING IS SUMMARY OF KICOBALT I REPORT

RECEIVED 28 JULY BY INWAVE CONTACTS

AO 28 JULY KICOBALT I MET AMCLEVE 1S

(ERRONEOUSLY REPORTED AMCHEER 15 PER DIRECTOR 24040) VHO

SAID HE WAS GOING

TO HELP TRAIN A SPECIAL UNIT

AMCLEVE 15 CLAIMED TO BE OFFERED

EIGHT MUNDRED DOLLARS PER MONTH AND TO BE LEAVING FIRST

WEEK IN AUG AND TO HAVE RECEIVED FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR

ADVANCE•

BA NICOBALT I CONFIRMED ABOVE WITH ANDESK I WHO

IS A FRIEND OF AMCLEVE 15 AND WHO ADDED THAT AMCLEVE 15 WAS

• IN -TOUCH WITH

TO WHOM AMCLEVE IS MAD MADE THE OFFER TO ORGAMIZE

A GROUP OF

TRAINING OFFICERS. ARCLEVE 15

MAD OFFERED TO TAKE ON ANDESE I SHOULD KICHEER & APPROVE THE

WHOLE FLAN. ANCLEVE 1S CLAIMED CONCEPT OF PLAM AND HIRING SECRET

---

## Page 223

PAGE 2 JAWAVE 8969 SECRET SECRET

OF AÑCLEVE 15 HAD BEEN APPROVED BY XICHEER I THRU ATTACHE.

2• NICORALI I COMMENTED TO CO THAT SUCH A UNILATERAL

GROUP UNCONTROLLED BY WOFACT WOULD DO MORE DAMAGE THAN GOODI

THAT XICOBALT SPONSOR AND COVER WOULD BE BLOWN IF IN FACT

OT HER

ON SAME MISSION

3.

RE PAPA A DIRECTOR 24039 JMWAVE FEELS THAT EITHER

AMCLEVE IS SOMEHOW CAME UP WITH IDEA ON HIS OWN OR SOME LEAX

OCCURRED DURING INITIAL CONTACIS ON THIS PROGRAM AND HE NOW

FISHING FOR INFO AUD HANDLE TO CLIMB ON THE BAND WAGON.

STATION HAS BEEN ADVISED BY AMCLEVE IS THAT HE SEEKING

EMPLOYMENT

HE LEGAL U.S. RESIDENT AND IS IN

POSSESSION OF MULTIPLE EXII AND REENTRY PERMIT VALID ONE

YEAR. AMOT IN DOES NOT KNOW AMCLEVE 15 NOR IS HE

KNOWLEDGEABLE OF KICOBALI OPERATION. AMFAST & CANOTHER

MEMBER AMOI GROUP WHO XNOWS AMCLEVE 15) REPORTED AMCLEVE 15

HAD TOLD HIM THAT AMCLEVE 1S AND WIFE HAD BEEN ENTERTAINED

BY U.S, OFFICIAL (HINTED WOFACT) AND HAD DISCUSSED POSITION

A. INCIDENT OF COURSE REQUIRES INVESTIGATION AND IS BEING

PURSUED: WILL ADVISE ANY DEVELOPMENTS.

•SECRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 224

884981.

and 190064

#: +18-655-689-881028

WHY

RId COPT

1??

hothermend

art 10-0-90

S-E-G-B-E-I..

CITE DIOrCTO 2 4 4 38

PRIORITY IMHAVE

INFO!

REF:

DIRECTOR 24039

#. +084989018091

PARADA CAULE CONTENT OF MIMO RICOHALT-L VIRULESHL-IS

•SUBMITTED TO UNWAVE CASE OFFICER AND ALL DUTiER PREFRIA

RELATED TO RE SUNECT UNDERNOT,ini laida

FAU OF MESSiaF

WH Comment:

who informed hir

Micron: 1as sorticed

C/ W71, 3

I WILLIN E. BROE

w.T0080I009.s03@0B.cos

S-E-C-R-B- I

J195h

...RAPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN INE ISSUING DIRICA IS RECITED

---

## Page 225

"9."

• 3337

SL NRY 1007

RIO COPY!

3101 + 9822399681

S9us8

1/50 0 3,

Pre$ B-8

cut/coG 5 c/02/5.2

LEERRI

CITE DIRECTOR 2 4 0 3 9

7

PRIORITY

i HYBAT

(JEN)

EAD APPROACHED

INFO: PRIORITY JAVE

1. KICOBALT-1. REPORTS HE MET

LAST WESK.

INFORMED HIM HE

OFFERiNG HIS SErVICES

SAID THAT REPLY

HAD COME BACK PROM KICHEER-I SAYING HE APPROVED SALARY UF $800

PIA MONTH AND

AUTORIZED PROVIDE $500 ADViCE

LEFT IMPRESSION HE DEPARTING

sooN.

18

UNSAVORY CHARACTER NHU MIXED UP IN SHADY DEALS

2. AS CAN BE EXPECTED XICOBALI-1 AND KICOBALI-2 DEPRESSED

AT THOUGHT OF

BEING IN

AND USDOUETEDLY SUSPECT

FOTACT INVOLVEMENT.

J. NOFACT HAS NO INVOLVEMENT THIS MATTER. REQUEST INNEDIATE

•CONTACI NITH KICHEER-1 TO DETÉRMINE VERACITY OF

STORY.

IT TRUE MAKE IT CLEAR TO KICHER-I THAT NS IN NO WAY ARE INVOLVED

IN THIS AND IN VIEW

BACKGROUND IS WISH HIM TO CANCEL

CORTRACTING

POINTING OUT IT WILL JEOPARDIZE OUR AND HIS

OPIZATIONS

ME SEACE I PROMiGiTIO.

---

## Page 226

14-00001

416°

9921008

Dnm1 81541190

~0 7000-00-=

-ere 10..

. va

-- alare

E P696

SECRET

CITE CIRECTOR 240.39

FOR JANAVE: IF

STORY NOT TRUE STRONGLY SUSPECT

LEAX

RE NOFiCT

COLLD ANOT-1) OR OTHERS HIVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT. *

ASSIGNENTS. PLS PROVIDE YOUR VIENS SOONEST.

END OF MESSAGE

AC/WHA/COr

itis

WILLTALT. BROE

C/WHD

C/#H/3

DEPROQUCIION DE OTREZ THAN THE iSCUiNÓ OFFiCE IS PROMISITED.

---

## Page 227

•

ROUTING AND RECORD SE21

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FUNG

1.

Fill in Sert. 2 on hack. Dotach back lap

and torward lo RID,

Destroy front cover sheet unless il recorda

migniticant action taken or commonte requir

Ing preservation

FROM: 22*

TO: ACTION BRẠNCH

RID/ AN

MORE/AN

TO. ALL ADDRESSEES

FIAN I SECTION I ON BACK IN APPROPRIATE

COMMENTE

TO

A00H

DATE

NO.

RECEIVED

TORBANGED

2- AUG 1962

1.7 AUG 1967

gAUC 1567

OFFICER'»

INITIALS

8tug|

RD

Bo

MICROFILMED

AUGi 7 1967

DOC. MICRO. SER.

7.

WH/c/cIes

Wit CONTIZAETS

10.

WH/BtF

</WH/SS

12.

CPD

19.

WH/ C06/mo

14.

54-69

3038

WH/3/v

16.

!7.

RID/FI

TRACK

REQUEST

DATE MICHOPILNLO

010g

"Hot Tions

two wow.

11 ANG

(AUG 1952

'lik

32 Ay a7.

copy. Bethesed

Fes sages ture

31/9

file 701

FILE TITI

FILE NUMBER I PRIMARY GOSED

ABSTRACT

INDEN

SAGA 2807»

ECRET!

1801

---

## Page 228

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 229

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 230

14-00000

MiREMnA

UNE PASHONS NDITOT

D AS3IS ECAPION

SECRET

AACE NE

sEatNto

MEE*

---

## Page 231

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 232

6910009 90 801e 800.

"er.

P649809

CLASSISITO MESSAGE

SECRET

CA

CICS SC

E RID COPY

ORTF

A ESEC.

1870.

SECRET 191832Z CITE UNWAVE 8307

19. JUL'ET IN 15/02

DIRECTOR

NAPOX TYPIC AMCLEVE- 13

REFS IMHAVE 8038 (ON 06062)

ON 19 JULY LOCAL FBI INFORMED INWAVE THAT THEIR HQS HAD

CANCELLED ALL PLANS FOR AMCLEVE -15 PARTICIPATION REF OPERATION. .

SAID OPERATION NOT BEING PURSUED DUE LEGAL PROBLEMS WHICH

THEY ENVISIONED MAY ARRISE.

SECRET

BT

---

## Page 233

14-00000

---

## Page 234

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 235

4-00000

---

## Page 236

* 3010

CASEY TOPIC 501-30098 SESSiSTED MESSAGE

A-DID TO FILE NO.

168.01060155.

SECRET

PERSERIUAIT BOTIFIEO

ACTIUR

35/2YA05

с/шпроє 5

URE COPY

ADVANCE COPY

COPIES

• REFASSUCTIOS PROMIDITED

WAVE

SECRET 112281Z CITE UNWAVE 8156

DIRECTOR

TYPIC ANCLEVE/ 15

ARS* FI

DEST

ASSTRiCT

REF DIRECIOR 18094

dO AÑCLEVE/IS AMICABLY TERMINATED EFFECIIVE IL JULY

1967•

WILL BE PAID BONUS EGUIVALENT TWO MONTHS SALARY.

2. DISPATCH FOLLOWS.

SECRET

112a3u09470

BL

SEET

231.

230385

jungles?.

---

## Page 237

22A0ET:02 AR

102.0112.9023

1. 2 0A0576 FI

D20020 A6:00:92203

TING & UNUE DOSS DELEING SIGNS DO CA INASRUOSNICS SORGICE O

TEN UNTIED SCARES COVARE

MARC, HEREATER D322PESO 90 A6 CO CONENT.

TIRE I SAVS NO GUADIS OF ANY SLID AGAMES DIS COVAANITE AND DO

NOT INTSAO SO KINDER ANY CARS SODS AGAINER TOS CONCASIE AZUSTIO

OUT OF MY PAST ENLARSONBLOD MISH DUG IDCLLXCSICE SONICS OR 2IS

DAis

11 JuRy -1962

• ..

.... sno...

---

## Page 238

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 239

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 240

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 241

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 242

14-00000

. +le

...a..-..

i, an bie

---

## Page 243

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 244

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 245

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 246

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

