# 104-10145-10119

## Page 1

104-10145-10119:

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday - 31 January 1978

Page Il

3

heca

48. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Mike Epstein,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who indicated that the House

Select Committee on Assassinations had requested Church Committee

transcripts for the following former CIA employees: Bill Harver.

Richard Bissell, Bronson Tweedy, (

103

James O'Connell, and Richard Helms. Epstein indicated that he proposed

to respond to this request within the guidelines of S. Res. 400 regarding

"ultimate release"'. He said the request came from James Smith and

Robert Blakey, of the House Select Committee On Assassinations staff.

I suggested that Blakey, Smith, Epstein and ourselves discuss further the

scope and nature of the request as soon as possible. Epstein agreed to this

meeting and I will schedule it.

49. (Unclassified - GMC) THIRD AGENCY Called Elizabeth Verville,

Department of State, Legal Adviser's Office, who is handling matters

relating to the Subcommittee on International Organizations, House

Committee on International Relations request for declassification of

Department of State documents. We agreed to stay in close touch regarding

problems connected with Agency material in the documents that the Subcommittee

wants from State.

50. (Unclassified - GMC) THIRD AGENCY Called Mr. Porter, Korean

Desk, Department of State, to confirm his attendence at a meeting with

DDO/Korea Desk officers on Thursday, 2 February. The meeting was

arranged by SA/DO/O to coordinate Departmert of State and Agency

positions on the Subcommittee on International Organizations, House

Committee on International Relations request for Department of State

documents containing Agency material.

51.. (Unolassified - THW) LIAISON In response to a phone call

from Mark Bisnow, in the office of Senator John Heinz (R., Pa.), to

Anthony Lapham, General Counsel, regarding a request from Senator

Heinz for a briefing on CIA information with respect to the G. William

Miller nomination to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve

System, I called Bisnow to tell him that his call had been passed to OLC

and we would be back in touch shortly to discuss the matter with him.

Mi. Bisnow again said he was calling to request a briefing for the Senator,

who is on the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.

21313

INTERNAL USE ONLY

ZIPU

---

