# 104-10113-10270

## Page 1

104-10113-10270

STAYDAND FORM NO. BA

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

:

File

DATE: 26 October 1959

FROM.:

Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT: LANZ, Pedro Diaz - #202792

I. On this date in response to my request to Mr. L

of WH Division, Mr. Bernard Reichardt, the Wi representative in Miami,

Florida, temporarily in Washington, telephonically contacted the

writer.

In response to the queries of the undersigned, Ir. Reichardt

provided the following information:

The Inmigration status of the subject at the present

time is that of a lawlully admitted permanent resident

alien. He is not under contract to CIA and he is not of

operational use. He presently resides with his wife and

other members of his family.

Iurther advised that with regerd to the subject's activities which were

publicized over the past weekend, CIA had no foreknowledge of these

activities.

He stated further that he was not contacted by the FBI

concerning the recent activities of the subject.

3. From the above, although this Agency evidenced an interest

in the subject in the past to the Imigration and Naturalization

service, it is apparent that CIA has no responsibilities with regard

to him.

ded the 1012 in in one one ate lethat to pro-

Marcos Diaz LANZ (#202923) :

Although this Agency interceded with the Immigration

and Naturalization Service with regard to Marcos Diaz

ANZ's coming into the United States in the recent past,

this individual has been paroled on his on recognizance

and this Agency consequently has no responsibilities for his

custody or other activities.

Marcos resides in Florida with

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• .

his wife, who recently arrived from Mexico. Mr. Reichardt

declared that he is not being operationally used by the

WH Division other than as a contact. He is not under con-

From the above, it is apparent as in the case oi

Pedro Diaz IANZ, CIA has no responsibility for the good

conduct of Marcos Diaz LANZ in the United States.

cc: #202923

OS/AAS/WJC:es

26 Oct 59

SECRET

---

