# 104-10106-10223

## Page 1

104-10106-10223

Administralive - Internal Use sily

C6671-1434

LOGC SUBJ:

3-4-77

TRAVEL

28 February 1977

NENORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION

: Division Security Officer

0z

FROM

:

SUBJECT

SE/X/LA

Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the

United States Government

REFERENCES: A. From andum For Chiet dated Il January

SE Division,

1977, Same Subject 63

B. USA V. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al.

- (76-371-CR-CA)

1. As reported in Paragraph 4 of Reference A, the trial

of: Gerald P. Hemming (Reference B) was severed on 10 January

1977.

• I was informed of the severance during my pre-trial

conference with AUSA Karen Atkinson in Miami, Florida on that

same day. AUSA Atkinson told me I could return to Washington,

D.C. and she would have the Drug Enforcement Administration

Miami Regional Office inform me if and when the trial was

rescheduled.

I orally reported the above to Mr. Billy Hix,

SE Division

security Officer, Ms'L

SE/X/LA, and Mr. Robert Blandford, CCS,OCS, upon my return

to Headquarters on 1l January 1977. I also forwarded Reference

A copies to Office of Security, External Activities Branch

and the Office of General Counsel, Mr. Edmund Cohen.

On 28 February 1977 I was contacted by SA Robert

Fredericks of the DEA Miami Regional Office and informed that

the

lonning trial was

Fredericks asked

scheduled to begin 2 March 1977.

me to be on standby to travel to Miami to

appear as a witness on behalf of the United States Government.

SA Fredericks said it was not certain the trial would begin

3/R1

Administrateo - Ntern tre Caly

---

## Page 2

Administratire - Inionts! Wes

on ? March and he did not know whether I would be needed

as

a witness.

3.

I requested that SA Fredericks initiate action to

authorize me to travel to Miami via GTR issued by DEA.

SA Fredericks said he would initiate that action. I am

awaiting further notice from SA Fredericks.

CC- SED, Security Officer

CCS/OCS

OS/EAB

OGC

Administralie - Welcial Leo Only -

---

