# 104-10167-10194

## Page 1

104-10167-10194

CLASSIHIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

#CUTING

DATE

$ 15

tO

• DIRECTOR

PROM , HAVANA

ACTICA: CAN 5

NFO • DO/P, COP; ADDP/A, S,. 2

APR 18 18572 60

PRIORITY

21-17 21-15

IN 27908

PRITY MIAM CITE HAVA 4221

PRITY DIR INFO PRITY

RYBAT JMARC

PREF: DIR25182 (OUT 65786)*

1O INFO PARA TUO REF PASSED TO AMHAWK EVENING 16 APR. AMHAWK

SAID HE IS PREPARED AND HAS EVERY INTENTION SET ASIDE PERSONAL

AND PARTISAN CONSIDERATIONS AND WORK IN HARMONY WITH THE OTHERS

FOR THE GOOD OF CUBA. HE ALSO AGREED: :

A, MEET WITH AMWAIL IN CARACAS TO CONSIDER BEST APPROACH

TO FIGURES.

Bo TO PROCEED TO SAN JOSE WITH ANWAIL IN CASE FIGURES NOT

IN, CARA•

C. IF AMWAIL AGREES CONVERSATIONS WILL BE HELD AT CARA WITH

SANCHEZ ARANGE.

Do NOT NECESSARY LIGARI GO EITHER CARA

OF. SANE.

E. WILL ENTER AT NEU YORK THENCE TO WASH AND EVENTUALLY

TO MIAMI•

2. AMMANSE MADE FOLLOUSE

• ODSERVATIONS!

A HE. NO? ON DEST OF TERMS WITH SANCHEZ ARANGO AND DOES NOT

FEEL SANCHEZ HAS MUCH TO UTTER OTHER THAN HIS CLOSE FRIENDSHIP

SECRET

REPRODUGTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2/3R

Tau

Copy No

---

## Page 2

LASSIFIEL MCNA

SECRET

HOUTiNG

DATE B

TO

FROM

ACTION

INTO

PAGE 2

HAVẠ 4221 IN 27908

WITH FIGUERES AND BETANCOURT. COMMENTED HE ALSO CLOSE TO BOTH

THESE MEN•

* B. HE HOPES THAT CONSIDERATION. WILL ALSO BE GIVEN POSSIBILITY

ESTABLISHING JUNTA SITE: IN MEXICO AS ALTERNATIVE TO SANJ

: END Of MESSAGE

CS COMMENT:

*REQUESTED AMHAWK BE ADVISED THAT AFTER HIS ARRIVAL PSPRIME HE WILL

BE GIVEN AMPLE OPPORTUNITY EXPOUND HIS VIEWS TO VERY RESPONSIBLE BOPRIMERS AND OBTAIN

THEIRS.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO DEFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

•a sister o i o dati

---

