# 104-10414-10152

## Page 1

1104-70414-10152)

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO:

Mr. Bush

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

DArE (_2 SEP 197A

Exsautoro Bargistry

REMARKS:

The attached suggested draft to

Mr.

De Mohrenischildt was written without

knowledge.of the flavor of your personal

relationshe with him.

The tone may not

be appropriate, but the message boils

down to the fact that neither CIA nor

the FBI appear to have been interested

in Me

years.

De Mahrenschildt for a number of

This draft was

coordinated with OGC

on 22 Sep.

John Waller

FROM:

45 citzeios - "dem"

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

TOEs 59-241

EPLACES FORM 36-

/HICH MAY BE USEL

(47)

from

---

## Page 2

13-00000:

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

: ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

FROM:

John H. Waller

Inspector General

2 E 24 Hqs. Bldg.

EXTENSION

6565

R-1252

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1.

COME "ENTIAL

SHEE

FINSPECTOR GENERAL

76-3000

SECRET

DCI

ROOM:

7 E 12

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number

each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column ofter eoch comment.)

This is the response to the

letter from de Mohrenschildt

that you gave me a,

few days ago.

Matte

4.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-52

010 USE PRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

L

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

13-00000:

Espairo Jagua

76 - 5151/1

SECRET

22 SEP 1976

MEMORANDUM. FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Director of Central Intelligence

John H. Waller

inspector General

Mr. George de Mohrenschildt

Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter to you,

dated 5 September 1976

Action Required:

None:

This memorandum is for your information.

We have also

attached at A a suggested draft reply to Mr. de Mohrenschildt's letter.

Action Taken:

We have reviewed DDO and IG files on Mr. de Mohrenschildt:

In

addition, at our request,

the CI Staff has run Agency traces on him and

has been in touch with the FBI as well.

Findings:

There.is voluminous material.on Mr..de. Mohrenschildt in CIA

files, most of it dating from the post-Kennedy assassination period

when he testified before the Warren. Commission on his acquaintance

with Mr. and Mrs. Lee Harvey Oswald.

(A copy of the de Mohrenschildis'

testimony is attached at B.)

The bulk of the material in our files consists of FBi reports,

the most recent of which is dated 1967. The FBI has informed CIA that

it has no traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt beyond that date; our files

contain all of its previous material on him.

SECRET

E2,

IMPDET

CL BY 055636

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

5.

Mr. Helms! 3 June 1964 memorandum for the liarren Commission on

the de Mohrenschildts is attached at C.

It describes the Agency's

interest in obtaining reports from Mr. de Mohrenschildt in 1957 as a

result of his sojourn in

Contact Division (now

Domestic Coliection Division - DCD) had its resident agent in Dallas,

Mir. J. Walton Moore, contact Mr. de Mohrenschildt at that time.

history of Mr. Moore's relationship with Mr. de Mohrenschildt from 1957

to 1961 is also attached at C.

As a routine matter, Mr.: Moore requested

traces on Mr. de Mohrenschildt.

The trace results (attached at D) con-

tained sufficient derogatory information to preclude further extensive

contact with the de Mohrenschildts.

(An OS summary on Mr.

de Mohrenschildt

prepared in response to the current request is also attached at D.)

Our files show that a mail cover was placed on letters addressed

to Mr. de Mohrenschildt c/o the U.S. Embassy in Haiti from about 1964 to

(This was probably not uncovered at the time of the external in-

vestigations. This included opening and photographing the contents of

some letters

The results of this operation

were shared with the rBi.

Mr. de Mohrenschildt came to the attention of this office during

the Rockefeller Commission investigations. We were asked to respond to a

memorandum submitted to the Commission by Mr. Paul Hoch entitled "CIA

Activities

an identification of Mr. J. Walton Moore's employment affiliation and

asked what Mr. Moore knew about. Oswald and what he may have told Mr. de

Mohrenschildt about him. Our reply to the Rockefeller Commission

attached at E.

The most recent information we have.on Mr. de Mohrenschildt comes

from Mr. J. Walton Moore who was contacted in May and July 1976 by writers

connected with the Reader's Digest, and with the Dial Press and the Dell

Publishing Company.

Both writers questioned Mr. Moore about Oswald and

Mr. de Mohrenschildt. Mr. Moore's reports on these contacts are attached

Conclusions:

de Mohrenschildt appears to have lead an adventurous and

colorful life as a petroleum engineer and businessman. He is both well

-2-

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000,

SECRET

and poorly connected, and some of his associations in the past have

raised serious questions.

Certainly his relationship with the

Oswalds has caused him considerable trouble and may have caused this

Agency and the FBI to spend more time and energy on him in the past

than was necessary.

10.

Both the FBI and this Agency, however, had dropped their

interests in Mr. de Mohrenschildt's activities by the mid-to-late

1960's.

We speculate that any attention he is now receiving could

either be from local authorities in Dallas or from media representa-

tives on the trail of a warmed over story concerning the assassination

of President Kennedy.

We offer no proof of this conjecture beyond

Mr. Moore's reports attached at F.

What we can say is that we have

found no indication that either CIA or the FBI has taken any active

interest in Mr. de Mohrenschildt in recent years.

Attachments:

A thru Fa/s

5 as Elise

28: 3

1 390X208

3 -

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000.

(

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Esert de Ragistry

176-5/571

28 September 1976

Mr. G. de Mohrenschildt

2737 Kings Road

Apartment 142

Dallas,. Texas 75219

Dear George:

Please forgive the delay in my reply to your September 5th Tetter.

It took time to explore thoroughly the matters you raised.

Let me say first that I know it must have been difficult for you

to seek my help in the situation outlined in your letter.

I believe I

can appreciate your state of mind in view of your daughter's tragic

death a few years ago and the current poor state of your wife's

health.

I was extremely sorry to hear of these circumstances.

In your situation, I can well imagine how the attentions you

described in your letter affect both you and your wife. However, my

staff has been unable to find any indication of interest in your

activities on the part of Federal authorities in recent years. * The

flurry of interest that attended your testimony before the Warren

Commission has long since subsided. I can only speculate that you

may have becone "newsworthy" again in view of the renewed interest

in the Kennedy assassination and, thus, may be attracting the atten-

tion of people in the media.

I hope this letter has been of some comfort to you, George,

although I realize I am unable to answer your question completely.

Thank you for your good wishes on my new job.

As you can imagine,

I'm finding it interesting and challenging.

Very truly yours,

George Bush

Director

2 Ju

73954:12

---

## Page 7

13-00000•

DDP42220

MICROFILNSO

•APR ?

1969

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SEGRET

3P

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE

SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOIVED

XAAZ: 17376

•CIA info on DaMahreüschildts

and sent to Warren Courmission

MEDORANIDUS FOR :

Aãr. a Lea Rarela

summerized

Irasiêmb's Concaisales an 258

SU3501

GOOSEN ARE 30NS2S DE LICHAENSCETILDE

L. Helene is made to your tacoraadis di 3l Marca

1965 Toasting any inform:ion do CaDIES tea I5a95+ Do

MOHEENSCHLDT A lA AVaL-SO lA CIA 1193. Ous TOVIO

JOver 5E216ls, Printsily 10101, +1101 80 6022 I

formation developad by this Ayaasy 131957 and 1955- Tha

Servican According to fia Ferords d' those agarsias, Georga

DE MOHRENSCHILDT had been cansidaros los esployeess la

1967. Da 5a? 50s bisod bacauss in mas allogod to bra Nas

seplonaga agaas, No information davalsican by CIA (or sis

bad catablahid suy las balroDa to Do LOrENSCELDIS

2. CIA'S inic: 12EI9A1 1O GEDIES DO NOHREDSCHLLDY

Detali oí tàs Interallonal Copporation Agancy (ICA). In tiat

cOnnection CiA HA11:0T9 TEN 1 OLD Advisor to 19

iz the early part a Desauber 1957, la cha coursa ol'sonaral,

•tacetiags tho ClA repressaiali, obtaiand foraiga iatolliganco

which was a ple deçcan 10 Diet Todal Syracies a

1201÷725.439

SECRET

CROW &

Exclusad trona ssionalis

desigrading aid

ceclassilicalias

3 Jun 64

---

## Page 8

13-00000 •

SESHET

WA

HING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS IMMORTED

informal, 0se0c10231 631420 with the Da SCrRaNSCHILDIe

until has antone Of 196%. Is lise no 959h aham slata las limo,

althougà ha recaives o miriamnas card from tec curing dos

3. Da da 235452241 01 Moynd 1963, scar to

amber 412920 has 2 had a docial as discalen

555442 1035211291 OSKAT33ad

Do 15 On 21104174047310 1

P3I coat: 500099a1a 16400l238sss2sssiloatsom

the 511, Dil In end 5i or 01n a04-, that Gresge De

s. 1i dia sangarn th 39160167ts3

DE NOCENSUALLOIS ENS thE OSHAL DA WAS FANA 102 150

SID EXAIN D44401 1993274211949 10004 10 1A4

And DINatus Isferration a3est 1446 rolationtais with ina

05WALDO A 25014 009 1n1 10 6th 390

Claran 39g+n10 +9p9951503955144b9955 0033

meal opera bagalabalast assass as on

Inta 1a 1557 and easiy 1953, his backgroand was Lavestigazza.

Inquis Do +4S6035S370DNA0SSSS11N0NN20041

hirs and bio setirities, malading a agallons bai during Worle

Macio, 22al ba 5ras 1 Liezaboy di in Comparaist Pastri and tant

Also the war ha pas syspathallo tonard Coractuaiss and tha

I.S.5.R, The insantigation was arenios to Balgimi raesa

ail1936. His sincaional bachgroend isd bis tost as 2

Jes: Were E5n05h61010. D0370c0 01aç1e91904

Cancoctional at Astroto io elgat dago is paises as carsgas of

4 7, a

SEGRE

---

## Page 9

13-00.000.

IR

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE:

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLYED

Isniaiag i polies dulrot aad to cight dars tbrleosnnantor e

HEO 0S 1I: 123XS 39 2307803 0Ĩ ErIZÀONDess 143 230 0f a 12230

name. Sontendo maz surpanded sendlag conoledos ofe t0zoe

yaa prabaionart sasloé.

6. TRADAgODu; Lia aidi liIA, GRorgO Da MOHAENSCSILDT

Dao asod rariattna di lis baolo nana 12zading oach cariazza za

JOT S+ NOHRENSCHILDI, JAJLY YEO JAOSARNSCHI.DI, Georgo

VIA MOSA20SC9140; 2ad, Cuorja furgis do MOuRsnaCa.

In Min Caana ha -1o0 359n9 10 hara varlad bio lorsar ssbsic

0ies tox Buszlas, do Palisa, SparioD, Daaiah D26 Gosaa

Thart appsi 29 00145795507) 0121 2201b71 10711 2931

ANENS LAIOSRIT EN 10S4TA 2430193

? FBISWUAGE JUDSE, MORAISSET, CAMAIO

OlA Da l9 Mazeh 1963 aul Fanlamad tals Agenya Clax Da teo

DO MOHPSNSCTLDTO.

S. Oaiz Zastai9is to 23 l ibad t0 100 ageasya

+02010514428Eebmay1961 The rapor Iyries Gabal

ON IOKI(E DENORESELINEAEHE0 34967

FEdOT ALEIAONIES BAZANEY, SDO MA a SOUAL disiomas i

Babblazlua, D.K, i0 32%. In tha: t0port Furl (Gaoig+) Da

MOHRENSCIMLO a: d0scEbat 29 $ 35t80lo4a oaglaras wio

Hoi Gorrmà 1n l2 Tozad 0ú flales aoàin Vonenala Conepsla

CARANINi Rus Socorda sbowr tãa: 19 bas Dona & s0srobar sá 252.

Sozial Staa Sacutisy Barle probably siata the pis-385072 - 350

205Vod In CSa 15 1913: AÍT WORO WIE LLhO diO HeJMA IiO

J-5o: Hisagarz and Elalasd.) Accozding to Di° FoEOria, Ma Ii

10mAEN 154 GALANIN LAL HiS aD0TOA Tin tA S0Vi

Stalo Saescliy Saxaiso has ziso booo Snera to te TRI

* Yos may alse wish i0 mane 1gaiias ai tho 0dieo o

leaueltamI fesen

Eapaztaans oi tha Asmy, ton Ieparioast of Staio; aoá tes Civit

Baivico Cormiahida bacause taoas dopartnaot9 alao batr 5ai0s-

10Z0 2405* GODYES DO MOHRENSCILLDT..

Distribation:

Orig.

sr 1 - Addzassee

2 - DDF

1- C/CI/RãA

2 - C/CI/SIG

1 - C/WA/3

3 ~ CI/R&A/Bartinan

DPP/E1R+A Htartins

X-CX/R&A/202 pS B0RV SEGREI

Eoy Ver Sa

+093117444013

DapHty DirOcsor 10y I128

3 Jum 64

201-725439

---

## Page 10

13-00.000.•

SEGRZI

DSET7GI6

I 133 E1

Acting Chief, Contact Division (Direct)

ATT

& Support

Dallas Resident Agency

Мен Саза 43259

MICROFILMED

•APR 7 1969

DOC MICRO. SER:

REF

= Headquarters Meso 20 1p5 64

• Details of J. Walter MOORE's contact with Geurge

DeMohrenschildt from 1957 to 1961, MOORE from

00/Cortretsr Dallas, office

I. I lnva kaona-Caorgo do Norrenschilar and his wife since 1957.

My Incoat actual contact with the was In to fall of 1981, altbough I

receivsd a Christas card fre then during Christas of 1953- The card

A Dencanville,

CiT- USA acc-businessman

After cur lato Fresident'a assassization, either on the 23d

or 24th 01 lover 1903 1 raceived & telephone cal IIe Do Paul

"reichertz, Dirsctor of tha Socony Mobil Research Laboratory at Discanville,

Texase

Ix. Reicherts advised that seabers of his staff had

attended song

kird of social or discassion group in January 1953 at which Lia Harror

Osraja was prenaut.

No mention was side at this tire of George de Motres

schildt.

I told Dr. Raichertz he shoula report this inforsation to tho

local offica of tha FBI and be replied that he knes no cha in Loa: Dallas

offico of tha Fil and asked if I would pasa the inforation glong for him

I called the fIl and they said thay would send somebody our to talk to .

DIo Reichest:. I nado no effori to lollon up on the nattor with. Paul

good certact of nine for nany years, sha advised that she had henrd that

de Hohronschildr had befriendad casalad after his arrival in Dallas and

haci introiced his to a study areup on the USSRe SIT-USA esc-librariani

= Danconvilla TaxaLSA

dy InItEd contact with de Hohenschlit was the result ó

-

a source load from headquaptors, dated 22 Noy 57, advising that Geergo .

do liobenschilat had recastly raturned to Dallas after sparding approxi-

sately a year in lugoslavia on a job for ¿be ICA.. I caliod on de Hohras

schildt in early December 1957 and subnitted i name check, dated 6 Dec 57-

do Hobrenachilst save no a copy of standarde parsonal history

1073%, win eten considorabla biographic data, which i an enclosinga

Thee Head?

OSHALD (201-259245)

Doc. contains

and Maryann DUEGAN, both of Saceny Mabil

"on.

Satj7701-725439

4 atiscteristo

HIw

Cs COPY

g::28

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SERNET

At. this tina I sar and sor tirs Jar de Hohrenschildt, a rhite Fussion

eniaras iron Saanghai.

i saw the do lohrenschildt's several tinas in 1953

and 1959- In late 1959 or early 1900, Mr. and Mrs. da Hobrenschildt went

on an 28 month biking trip through dexico and Central America, An acount

al this trip, as taken from the 19 Cot 61 issua of the Dallas Tines Herald,

is enclosed.

Its tha ray of a personal assessaant, I would say that tha

do Monrenachi11t'e are an interasting and unusual couplo. This is, I

balisva, the second barriage for both of thes. tra de "ohronschildt,

who has Lean a successiul dras dasignar, has a broin,aarried daughtai,

who is quite a fina artiat George da Horrerachildt has sevaral children

by his firgt wiis (reportaily a vory wealthy sonan noy living in tha

Middlo East).. Ca of his chiliran died of cystic fibrosis and Georga

do Rohranschillt has aluays bein very active in tha yearly cystic librosio

fund raising emptiga

5. Gecoga do Mohrerschildt tales a goos appearance

Н$ Ia

about sir foot tall end waigha arcusd 190 pounds, For a nan his aga,

approxinataly 53, he leaps biasale in gooi condition and lo a bit di a

physical titans nut. la ls a noderate drinker and wen I last sas:

his, sooked a pipe. I would dascribe his porsonality as filendly and out

going although I have heard bin radarned to za concaired. lo reputaily

has an eys for tha ladies zoù I understani his intarast doas not go

unreciprocatad. He leads a schawhat unconvantional Life, plays temmis

at 5 o'clock lo the norning, ha is rather outspoken, has a lean interest

in intarsational affain and in sosial justico.

By local conservative

stardardo, he sula be considared a liberal lils outlook oo lifo in

continental.

Б..

Do liohrenschilat is fairly wall knom in petrolata circles

His Dallas.

I only know of one good friend of his. This is(Col, Intrence

oñlos (Ratiral who 11 in the oil leasina businass- Ine colere, and I

both play handball, Ho mentioned tba last tian I saw him that do Notin

schildt santos him to cons to faiti to balp his run a plantation and

organics a cenpany thero.

I believa that the da Hohrenschilde's Iet

For Maizl lu ubour Februam of 1953 but I aa very vague oa this point.

I tbere Is'any alditional intomatica I can furnish, pleasa let to kos,

CIT- USA.

occ-berinessman

A Dallas,

Texar

joed friend and bariness: asseciite of Georgs

DEMOHRENSCHILDT (201-725439)

SA.HALTCI MCORE

Enclosures

as stated abova.

ponay 64

201. 725439

SEGNET

dop9ag0992 9:1

---

## Page 12

13-00000

(we ritied in)

DATE

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

FRON:

13. Augost 1958

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 'OS

IBJECT:

de MOHPENSCH ILT, George

-68d.ail

AKA:

von ECHRENSCH ILIT,

George Sergius

Ton MORENSCHILDE, Jerzy

#775

1. Reference is made to your request for a security clearance on the subject

erson as a potential source of intelligence information.

The necessary checks have

een completed with the following results:

No additional information has been obtained, except for such

biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment

b. Information has been received that Subject was investigated with

lavorable results in

C. Ge

Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment

which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent

and level of your use of Subject.

2. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying

nformation you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be dis

losed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name,

his Division should be notified Immediately.

Im

Piratt

W. Mo Knott

Chief;

Personnel Security Division

ittachment:

Summary

Balon

•ORM NO. 1124

1 POV 50

EVES ONLY

#1622

DISAPPROVED-U

THIS CATEGORY 15 ASSIGNED BY INDEX

FOR HEADQUARTENS USE ONLY, THE

FIELD CHIEF DETERMiliNES

CLASSIRED

DISCLOSUSE

24 433

setsi

SHAE BESS

on in

CONFIDENTIAL

8 SEP 3959

EYES OMIY

---

## Page 13

13-00000

#775

Subject was investigated by Federal Agencies in 1941, 1942,

1915, 1947, and 1957.

The investigation reports as well as the

files of other Federal Agencies reflect the following:

Between 1940 and 1942 Subject was considered to be

pro-German and suspected of being a terman propagandist and

an espionage agente

Several informants staied that Subject was in sympatby

with the Commnist form of government in Russia but knew of no

un-Amsrican activities on the part of Subject. One informant

advised in 1947 that Subject had definite Commnistic tenden-

cies.

Investigations failed to produce any legal competent

evidence or witnesses to substantiate the reports that Subject

had been pro-Cormunist or pro-Nazi..

Majority of informants consider Subject to be eccentric,

irresponsible; conceited, an adventurer fond of exaggeration, and

overly aggressive.

Subject has been known to associate with persons of

questionable loyalty, reputation; and moral character.

Jubject, when intervieved, admitted that he tends to exag

gerate and advised that he thought the Communist form of govern-

ment of fioviet Russia was the better form of governmart on the

European continent, and that he had a great admiration for the

Conmnistic form of government,

but that that did not prevent

him fron having a stronger feeling of loyalty to the government

of the United States.

#1622

CONFIDENTIAL

LIES CRY

---

## Page 14

13-00000:

Gorge DE MOHRENSCHILDT

From the Office of Security

CIA CONNECTION:

DE MOHRENSCHILDT was security disapproved for OSS employ-

ment on 18 July 1942 because he was suspected of being a Nazi

On 13 August 1958 derogatory information was furnished

the Contact Office who was interested in interrogating him as

an alien contact.

His second wife, Phyllis whom he married on

11 July 1948.and divorced 29 December 1949, was employed as a

• receptionist by a covert project (NCFE) from 1950 to 12 January

1951 when her employment was terminated.

(Reason not given.)

Subject's brother, Dimitri S. VON MOHRENSCHILDT, was

approved on 11 April 1950 for exploitation

as a contact. for

foreign intelligence purposes on a limited basis; not

to receive

classified information above confidential.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

OS Files on Subject, his second wife, and his brother

reflect use by the Agency as set out above.

Subject was

investigated by the FBI in 1941, 1942, 1945, 1947 and 1957.

Between 1940 and 1942 Subject was considered to be pro-German

and

suspected of being a German propagandist and an espionage

agent.

Several informants stated that Subject was in sympathy

with the Communist form of government in Russia but knew of

no un-American activities on the part of Subject.: One infor-

mant advised in 1947 that Subject had definite Communistic

tendencies. However, investigations failed to produce any

legal competent evidence or witnesses to substantiate the

reports that Subject had been pro-Communist or pro-Nazi..

. The

majority of informants consider Subject to be eccentric,

irresponsible, conceited, an adventurer fond of exaggeration

and overly aggressive:

He has been known to associate with

persons of questionable loyalty, reputation and moral character.

Subject has admitted that he tends to exaggerate and stated

that he thought the Communist form of government of Soviet

Russia was the better form of government on the European

SISAC7

---

## Page 15

13-000.00

continent; that he had a great admiration for the Communist

form of government but that this admiration did not prevent him

from having a stronger feeling of loyalty to the government of

the United States.

A New York Times item

for 12 December 1966 mentioned that

Hugh AUCHIN-

were quoted as saying they were perhaps the only persons in

the world to have known the families of both President KENNEDY

and OSWALD.

SECIET

---

## Page 16

13-00000

JUNGLASSIFICU

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Inspector General

Room 2E24 Hgs.

TO: (Officer designation, room numbor, and

building)

1.

OGC

2.

L

.LY

So beli

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Hoch/Warren Commission Paper

EXTENSION

6565

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INTALS

FORWARDED

AUC

NO.

DATE

28 April 1975

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drem a line across column alter each commani.)

The attached documents are

submitted for review and clear-

ance to the Presidential

Commission investigating the

CIA. Please return, unmarked,

to the Inspector General as soon

as possible. Space for concur:

rence is provided below.

This paper MUST be ready for

release to the Commission by

noon 28 April.

I-10

I concur in the release of the

attached documents to the

Presidential Commission.

Phowse

12.

13.

14.

15.

12M

82

HANDCARRY

670 SERIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL . D

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

_ UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 17

13-00000

.. 1.0

Was J. Walton Moore connected with CIA?. Was he connected

with the Oswald case?

Answer:

Mr. J. Walton Moore was employed by CIA in the Contact Division

office in Dallas during the early 1960's. His only contact:

with the Oswald case prior to the assassination is recorded in

his 1 May 1964 memorandun to the Acting Chief, Contact

Division, attached at Tab 8 (a typed version of the document

is also attäched because of the poor legibility of che

original). He may have been involved in the Agency's effort to

support the Warren Commission during the Commission's investi-

gations.

Mr. Moore has stated that he was never asked by Mr.

de Mohrenschildt for advice concerning Oswald.

we find no

indication that there was

ever any contact between Oswald and

• Mr: Moore.

13

SECRET SEISINE

---

## Page 18

13-00000•

(

6-42-01

CORTZENITAL

N

DAL-83-76

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Chief of Operations

14 July 1976

398073

198026 ;

Inquiry from.Richarc

Pussell of Dial Press, Concerning Dallas Fiel

ffice Associacion with Lee Harvey Oswald and George demohrenschild

16-08-93

6-82-71

1. On the evening of 13 July 1976, at about 21C0, Mr. Richard

Russell of the Dial Press and the Dell Publishing Company, came by

my house.

He advised that he was working on a book on the Kennedy

assassination and that he understood I was a friend of George

defionrenschilde. He wanted to know if I had ever met Lee Harvey Oswald

or if devohrenschildt. had ever suggested that I should see Oswald.

I told him no on both counts and advised that. I have not seen or

talked with George dellohrenschilde since the fall of 1961.

2.

Mr. Russell attempted to draw me into discussion of the

Kennedy assassination which I avoided and wanted to know if I could

give hin the name of the chief of the CIA office in Mexico City in

•1963. I told him I could. not, and he said he could probably get the

name from bir. David Phillips.

I do not foresee any adverse publicity

as a result of Mr. Russell's visit but felt that it should be made a

matter of record.

J. WALTON NOORE

JRM/jb

ESPECIAL

E2 IMPDET CL BY 003820

---

## Page 19

13-00000,

TN

RONI

UBJECT:

1..88 1:53 CONTIEN

CIA FAMA (6) 647) 198-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

GOAFNOZNOIAL

Memorandum

6-82-21

DAT-69-76

: Chief, Domestic Collection Division

: Chief of Oparations

DATE: 21 Hay 1976

: Chief, Dallas Field Office

468221

Inquiry from Reader's Digest Concerning Dallas Field Office Association

with Lee Harvey Osvald and George deMohrenschildt

A160893

IT 197588

50-97

I.

On 19 May 1976, Pem Butler,,

a research writer for leader's Digest

called on the listed line.

She identified herself as being with the

Reader's Digest and said she was doing research for a book being written

by Harry 'Epstein on the Kennedy assassination.

She asked If I had ever

talked to or met Lee Harvey Oswald..I told her I had not.. She then asked

if I had talked to George deliohrenschildt about Lee Harvey Oswald.

After

I told her that I would not discuss the matter, she said that she wider-

stood from deMolixenschildt that I had talked to him after he had retumed

Exon a trip to lugoslavia®

I neither confirned nor denied this, and I told

her again I would not discuss the subject.

2. I do not know if lis. Butler actually talked to delohrenschilat

or not since the information she had could have been acquixed from the

Warren Commission Report.

Malhol

• Моги

JUM/jb

E2 IMPDET CL BY 003820

---

## Page 20

13-00000

MUM MEON

PLEASE RETURN TO

OFFICE

NAME

TUBE. STATION

ROOM NO. AND BUILDING

DEARSY

PLEASE DESTROY

FORM

329

.329T

MAMALLOL

---

## Page 21

13-00000

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

I do know this man DeMohrenschildt.:

I first men

him in the early 40'3. He was

an uncle

to my Andover

roommate.

Later he surfaced in Dallas- (50's maybe)

Ile got involved in some controversial

dealings

in Haiti.

he surfaced when Oswald shot

to

prominence. He knew

Oswald before

assassination of Pres. Kennedy.

I don't recall his

role in all this.

At one

time he had /or spent plenty of

money.

I have not heard from him for many years until

the attached letter came.

in.

CB 9-17

Russian speacer

---

## Page 22

13-00000

(

TO

SUNDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOY AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

EA/DIS

DATE

INITIALS

3

6

10. Bush --

Do yeu Have this ridin due!

yeaX

Tal

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMEN

CONCUHRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

LINFORMATION

PREPARO REPLY

TRECUMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

I was suing to fornians this'ta

from tenant through don

shinid run

on the off chance that it is an

acquaintance of the Direction's.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADORESS ANO PYONE NO.

→ ES/ Bambara

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Feas ta. 237

Use provious editions

1-07

DATE

916/76

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 23

13-00000

(

ER has no record of previous correspondence

from subject.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

hand-written litter Magle

you will be alle to trin

sion into the hope kee t

tuation I find myselfin. -

ny wip and I find

Vigilantes: our phone bugged

vernher. Eifter TB1 is in.

inted in this on they dons,

vant to accept ту сотріаци

neare drinn 4d insdnity ke

this situation

I have been Rehavin

ike a damu fool excitine

my daughter Nadya died fa,

Fara 3 year ago, I

---

## Page 25

13-00000

tried fa write, stupidlya

inald and must have aut

dirty man life met t

ту відно палід

could you do somethin.

smore thi netarounte

is? This will be my ast

west for help and Lo win

wanney you any marie.

grod luck on your

important et

mar yen to much

17 Xin9309 C41e244) Dates 759%

---

## Page 26

13-00000

P.M

X-RA

92 sEP 197

RECEIVED

Ton lẹд

Bush

Direefor Cntral Iy-

Telligence agenc

Vashingfonidt

sio"a s.

---

## Page 27

13-00000

1- detotirenuchilay

2127 ings Roadlem142

Oallas. FexTsz1a

---

