# 104-10086-10316

## Page 1

1104-10086-10316

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

3.

4.

SCOTT

White

pricelyn

5.

6.

Shaw

7..

Got pastuse

Keenan

8.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

SECRET

cd IDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

12Cv20

FORWARDED

В

NO.

DATE

HMMW-12193

17 Dec63

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

SAGNET /R

mal,

31 Bew

39%

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

Scor

Dotter

610 USE.

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

STATION

16/ 03

_ CONFIDENTIAL L

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

perito

Срібр

E CO UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

6000553

PACE

106

RISi

267

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE

T

PROCESSING

TO

INFO.

Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM

Chief, WHID

SUBJECT

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM

PLISHED

RYBAT/

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

We would like to take

time out in our investigation of the President's

assassination to appraise the role of the Mexico City Station in the whole affair.

the early afternoon of 22 November 1963, Mexico City has been the only

overseas reporter in the case.

While this 1s partly dictated by the

of Lee OSWALD's life, we have not overlooked the really outstanding per-

formance of Mexico City's major assets and the speed, precision, and perception

with which the data was forwarded.

Here it was relayed within minutes to the

White House, ODACID, and ODENVY.

Your LIENVOY data, the statements of Silvia DURAN, and your analyses

were major factors in the quick clarification of the case, blanking out the really

ominous spectre of foreign backing.:

We regret

that we have been able to send you so little information in

return, but we have not been given nuch yet.

We do know that Lee OSWALD denied

ne had ever been to Mexico except for a jump to lla Juana. We have quickly

screened the FBI report on the whole case but we do not yet have a copy for

retention. It does not

promise your sources. Basically, what the New Yor

limes has printed about the report is all true.

3.

We have meanwhile been flooded with fabrications, of which the ALVARADO

story was the most troublesome.

They are still coming in.

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

0&1 - COS, Mexico City

396-716

§'CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETA

DATE TYPED

13

Dec 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW-12193

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-287248

DATE DISPATCHED

0000554

PACE

107 • 262

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRETIVI

HMMW-12193

You have had good support from your llaison, but as usual the really

outstanding features were Mexico Station's Lamous generalship

and the skill and

devotion of its personnel.

Please convey our admiration to all who participated,

down to the last technician, translator,

and monitor.

We know that the work

your Station did during the President's 1962 visit made you feel this tragedy

with particular keenness, as did we.

Been 9, Galbined

OLIVER G.

GALSON

REPRODUUTION POOMBINED

FORM

5-60

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

0000555

PAGE NO,

2

PAGE

CCFE NO.

:108 $ 369

---

