# 104-10051-10152

## Page 1

104-10051-10152

SECRE I

Ruchier, SRS

( DC/SAS and C/ FIOB/ SRS

M. D. Stovens

PEREZ, Ralph

8:444 260

18 October 1967

Document Number

1343-1055

for FOlA Review on

MAR 1977

With reference to Ralph PEREZ who le mentioned in

paragraph 2 of the attached memorandum on Rich rd S. CAIN

dated 9. Ostober 1967, he would appear in all prob bility to be

Jubject who in the spring of 1963 became of interest to DCS (00/C)

for routine exploitation as a source of foreign positive intelligence.

2. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-

substantiated report that Subject aubscribed to the Communist

publication 'VOZ de MEXICO" and was a Communist leader in

1941. He reportodly was & leader of the Communist nucleus in

the Chicago Mesican colony. According to a notation dated 6/26/63,

this information was' considered resolved in Subject's favor through

1959 BoI, conducted on Subject's siater.' DOS was also iaformed

that Subject's sister (Maria Guadalupe GALLARDO, with various

akas) was reported by reliable informante to have been a member

of the Mexican Commisalon of the Communist Party in 1946 and 2

caid carrying Communiet Party member in 195l, During an inter

View in 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communist

Party and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930's in Chicago

but denied having attended Communist Party aflairs subseguent to 1945,

or to ever having been a member of the Communist Party.

3. T'ith ecterence to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject

(PEREZ) is said to have given

#199 499, a0 2

lead, he may or may not be Guillermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:

Gulllermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, # 111260, a S'ixican citizen who

in October 1956 was lasued an onerational aporoval

This

approval was cancelled by " H/Ill in i memorandum dated 9 November

1957. There is no derogatory information in ESCOBAR's file and no

information on him since 1957.

*XCRET

GROUP T

Excluded from aromatic.

dowograding and

declassics is.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

* The only other Gulllero ESCOBAR on whom there is

information in Security Indices le an individual by that name listed

1a a 5 Decomber 1949 report on The Fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter»

national. This Culllermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the

Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta de Chile, war listed as one of

the personalitles. in the Partido Obreto Revoluctanarla, an aifiliated'

Chileas organization.

M. D. Steveng

Attachmont: memo did 9 Oct 67

MDS/cer

SECRET

---

