# 104-10177-10029

## Page 1

104-10177-10029

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ID

SECRET

DATÉ

10

DIRECTOR 0

FROM :

Dos d'o tueste baker lhairer

ACTION: WH 6 (TENDO COLY ISSUED TO MA. CONO, WT, ATI7O, 13 AG.)

hia 1? 28 7,7:55

REC'O CHOLE SECT,

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

51/RQM 3,

D0/1, AD/CI, S/C 2

: IN 13435

7O

INFO

OPIM DIR

PRITY HAVA PRITY

INTEL IMPLOW

03, 27

SUPDATA: SOURCE

Efteo 13538653 (ouT 852a7')

CITE

3623

CUSA/DOM REP

SUBJ REVOLUTION IN CUBA

DOI 13 AUG 59,

1al8

PADA

APPR:

3 AUGUST 59

PARA 1 15: C2, PARAS 2 3 AND 5 ARE 63, PARA 4 IS CE, PARA

6 IS A1.

1. SOURCE FORCEFULLY POSITIVE FOLL: GOOR HAS NOT SENT AND

WILL NOT SEND ANY EXPEDITION AGAINST CUBA, UNLESS EXTREME CON

DITIONS DEVELOP DEMANDING DONS ATTEMPT CRUSH CUBAN EXPEDITION

AGAINST DOM REP AT CUBAN SHORES.

iriste

2. SIX CLEAN COMMANDERS WITH ELOY

FOUTIERRÉZ MENOYO, AS CHIEF

AND WILLIAM MORGAN SECONO III CONSAND DEMANDEO OF FIDEL CASTRO

THAT NO COMMIES BE-ACCEPTED-IA CUBAIN ARMY. THIS DEVELOPED

EXPLOSIVE SITUATION AND CASTRO AT INSISTENCE OF RAUL CASTRO

ACCUSED THESE SIX OF COUNTER REY ACTION. FIDEL PLANNED TO ARREST

r04l 1380 co Francia

SECRET

ZEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TRE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO.

soir

Copy No.

1 981-351145

(2)

---

## Page 2

14-00009

DR.E.?.

80

13 ALGUST 1959

CLASS'FED MESSAGE ID

SECRET

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

• No: Reproduce

ACTIONA

INO

10

NO PAGE Equire Li

OPERATIONAL INDIATE

IN 83÷35

INFO

CITE

21-18

AND CHARGE ALL SIX. THEY LEARNEO OF PLAN AÑO ESCAPED TO CUAST,

LANDING IN CASILDA SAY THEN MADE WAY TO ESCAMBRAY, CUT ROLAS EAST

AND WEST RUNNING TO SOUTH COAST. GUTIERREZ HAS OVER 2, 081 MEN IN

THAT AREA IN OPEN CONFLICT WITH CASTRO TROOPS.

3. SOURCE RADIOS LOCATED ON NORTH COAST OF DOMREP LISTEY TO

GUTIERREZ MEN NIGHTLY BROADCASTING FROM TRINIDAD CUBA, AHICH THEY

CAPTURED.

4. CASTRO HAS UNDER ARREST APPROX 1, DEL AS RESULT PRESENT

REVOLUTION AND NEARLY 2, DES KILLED BUT LINPUBLICIZEO.

5. RECENT REPORT RE ATTEMPT KILL FIDEL IS OSFINITELY TRUS

AS WELL AS ATTENPI KILL RALZ.

MET AND TALKED WITHIGER PEDRAZA: IN LATTERS HOME FOR

NEARL: ONE HOUR 13 AUGUST 59. HE HAS NOT BEEN ABSENT, IS NO

_PLAS LEAD FORCE TO CUBA.

SIO MIS DUTY TO ATTACK CASTRO FOICES

BUT HE HAS NEITHER MEN NOR EQUIPMENT. OTHER PEDRAZA STATENENTS

POUCHED.

7. FIELD DISSEM:" STATE NAVY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * Requested information regarding anti-Gantro groups.

L SECRET

"'" 1389 ""*" REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TMAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

i.'?

---

