# 104-10217-10223

## Page 1

104-10217-10223

SECRET

(WHEN MATERLAL INSERTED)

BLACK TAPE 201 FILE

TO: IP/Files, GC-52

FROM:

EUR

ARMO

484402 6771

(Tom. #)

• TO BE OPENED BY Personnel of.

I certify that the enclosed 201 volume

has been checked before sealing to

ensure that the material is arranged

in chronological order, duplicates

have been removed, each Record

Copy has been properly input to the

DO Records System, and that all

Record Copy material in this volume

is classified to this file. Form 2021 to

restrict this file is attached herato.

EUR ROG

(DON B-50 Designation)

ONLY!

VOL. -

- 6f Vu.

enclosed.

Inclusive Dates of Enclosed Material

(Multi-Vols. Only):

From

1 July6510

Doc 68

(Date)

201-_

306052:

(signantro of RHOS

SECRET

00-30;

---

## Page 2

14-00000

emeee i indesd limdatoe gendde tlug, tethe doge pepgde eettei dlii

ii.i

retern torns

THIS VOLUKE CLOSED AS OF

31 DECEMBER 1968

".ii:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TOSES

On 24 October 1960, I saw De. Daly Of the 310-che-155a

Laboratory ol

Hospital forL

Dr. Rodes, sent me to Daly as

a private patient, asl

practice 1s not to taxe these

tests unless the patient's condition seens to be horseria.

ly doctor thought I shored to signs of a recurrerce o

Jand he corral practice rould save beezee

a5 cost,

for me to nave been exarined by tre specialist at

hospital, who might then decide to ask for the tests.

Daly said that all required tests, except the

would be done.

He said he thought thel

unnecessary

unless the others indieated meritive factors.

In vinica?

case,

test.

he would ask ze to come in again for saat.

Daly will send me the results of the tests and his bill

c/o Americar Express,]

within a week.

Thit 012369, 290468

•P PO SCT TO LE COUTIO CUICEE CISIENTO CIVISION

•I ST:TF, PIECE- TE, ROL'TIS TO TRE MELS, CE FOS

THE BIS'S TIR OICEITIONIL FOLLOW-J?, WITAGOT PAINE

«GECIATICH WITH €,€A/*F.

201-306052

---

## Page 4

NAME

CD

C9

EARNINGS

NORMAL

*= 0.0

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED 1N)

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDULTiONS

EMPLOYLE NO.

822799-

PAY PERIOD DATE

12:21.12/311

20

1768

DESCRIPTION

COST CENTER

1262930

REG SAL

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

STA

00k

DEDUCTIONS

NORMAL

OTHER

8000-

89000

8000

DESCRIPTION

LIQ PAYMY

CPA EX CR

FED TAX F

Chunfias tax code for the quarter and reducing tax to $80,00 per memo, dated JULI 1968.

•**.

MAPLOTHE RUNDER!

002799 CAPHORE

Ka 1314 Previous editiona obsolele

SECRET

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA

RATE

O/T.157 ANT

N.7 AMOUAT

REFUND DUE FROM EMPLOYEE

CD.

NORMAL

OTHER

coi

NET

FA'Y

NORMAL

OTHER

REMARKS:

PAIN AT MO

1O 1315A

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, WOLIME

DEO.

Chief of Station,

Chief. EUR Division

FROM

Chief. LCPIPITA

SUBJECT

DIDORIC/Operational

ACTOW REQUICED - REREAENCES

GLASSACATIAN

SECRET/RY BAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR MOEXINE

NO INDEXING REQUIRES

ONLY QUALIFIO DESE

CAN JUDGE DADETSI

AUCROFIA

After considering several alternatives and given

_ 11°5

lack of financial forward planning. ICPIPIT believes that it would

be beneficial and advantageous for WOFIRM to offer to subsidize a

portion of an overt life insurance program designed to give him both

life insurance and a cash value toward retirement. We have dis-

cussed this with

1 and he has agreed to the desirability of

such a program.

He is willing to participate in such an arrangement

and has undertaken to explore the possibilities available to him

We are forwarding under separate cover a copy of several proposals

which he has received from the local representative of a reputable

WOLADY insurance firm.

2. ICPIPIT requests authority to subsidize up to 1/2 of the

cost of a life insurance program for L

(This WOFIRM portion

not to exceed $50 per month.) From an administration standpoint

this would merely take the form of an increased monthly payment and

we would take the necessary steps to verify that the funds were

indeed being devoted to their designated purpose.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c

COC ISEMED I/9 S/0

As stated above

EX BED: 502 8 OCT 3938

istributio:

8 - C/WOLIME W/al

1 - CosL

Iw/o att

1 - C/EUR w/o att

TOSS REFERRICE BO

RIDAT ES COPY

ПОСЛОВЕН

OEPA 1397

GANIFCARON

SECRE TRYBAT

OCT 2: E.3

22 October 1968

NOS RIE WINDEN

2201-3060052

---

## Page 6

? cat, choen.

to OEPA-1397

d. SPENCER LANGFORD, C.L.U:

*ROPE :0105.

MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK

(MONT)

• OUTCH ANVE'S GAT

ONDON. 5.M.

0143 80

13 September 1965

Dear

The following will give you an idca of the protection, cash at 6i, and

retirement incoine you will get under three different plans on me basis we

discussed on th' phone,, Let me know if you need any more incoratios.

Premium -

$50/nonth

$ 75/month

$10)/mosth

Plan Type

Whole Life

Death Benefit

Cash at 65

Life Incorie € 55

23000

21200

133

Endowment at 65

Deati: Ber.cfit

17000

Cash at 65

Life Income @ 65

25620

160

Retirement Endorment @ 65

Death Bencfit

11000

: Cash at 65

25300

Life locome @ 65

158

35000

33100

207

47000

4.400

278

25000

38100

239

33000

50300

315

17000

39100

245

23000

52900

331

I look forward to nearing from you in the near fiture.

1 - The retirement income figures are mentily income at 65 using the

10 year certain option

ES COPY

Note:

I wowid be willing to put up, or have

deducted, part of such a scheme, say

$25 a month.

801-306052

---

## Page 7

1d-0d0d

Z - Arry figures concerning dividends are not guarantees nor estimates

since dividerds depend upon future experience and the annual actior.

of the companies trustees

3 - All figures are in the US dollars and based on standard male issue

at age 37.

Sincerely,

trainee

] Spencer Langford, C. L.. U.

2

---

## Page 8

end:

MISSAGE FORA

TOTAL COMES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/ OR INTIALS - MEN IT

11!

KIT:

7767

BATH: 9 Oct 68

CARLA SSCRITABLAY DISMEIMSATION

DESTROY

RETURN TO

130

BRANCH

FRE BD

ckAs

пто.

HID COm

mm, dals, cares, cal

(alit»)

charte

SECRET

1021

12200768

CITE DIRECTOR

• ICPIPIT INFO

40570

RYBAT DIDORIC

MHPROBE

REFS: A.. ICPIPIT 7508 (IN 08511)

. B. OEPW - 405, 8 Oct 68

1. DEFER PARA 2 REF A TO

(PER OIRW-27586, TELEPOUCHED

90ст).

2: REF B, POUCHED 8 OCT, REPORTS GENERALLY SANGUINE

MEDICAL PROGNOSISL

I1 HEALTH FOLLOWING

PERMITS

SHORT TRIPS TO CONTINENT PROVIDED HE WATCHES DIET CAREFULLY AND

DOES NOT OVERTIRE, UNTIL CLINICAL AND CHEMICAL TESTS RECOMMENDED

IN REF B PRONOUNCE HIM FÜLLY RECOVERED.

3. FILE 200-124-15613.

END OF MESSAGE

EURA

EUR/BC/UK

0/201

C/CA

COCUMMATES FFICHR

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Chief, CA/CF

(THENNATI

E#ACIE

---

## Page 9

14-00000

ro

DISPATCH

Chle!, LCPIPIT

SAI

SE CRE SECRET

MARKED GOR MCEXTE

XX

NO MOEING REDOMES

ONLY CONFES JEE

CAN RIDGE INDERNE

Chief of Station,

FROM

Chief, HOLIME

SUI! Y BAT /DTDORIC!

I/8 Physical Concilion

REFERENCE: OEPA-1312, 10 September 1968

1. On the basis of the documentation abmitted ander reference dispatch, the

Medieal Staff feels that L

I/l made a arprisiogly fast recovery and seems

well on the way to complete health. However, the hospital report (a qaick transla-

tlon of which lato English is attached for your ready reference), dated as it is, still

reflects some Inconclusive levels in the reralte of the various chemical tests shown

Undoubtedly these have by now been lowered to completely safe levels, since

J/1 apparently felt well enough to travel to France, but the Medical Staff

bolieves it would be advisable for I

_Il to andergo another l

to include the following:

We assumel

_Il has consulted his own physician on his return to the

but the Medical Staff has pointed out that clinical examination alone is not always

muffleient to determine complete recovery from

tachment

lospital repor

(continued)

Distribution:

2 - Chief, LCPIPIT,

I a COS,

w/o/att

w/att

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

OCT 1968

DUPATCH SYMBOL AND MISER

ETEEP LATE

Eschick tris sibelie

OEPW - 405

Crept 9/320

7 October 1968

CASSFICATICU

HOS FILE WISER

RYBAT

SECRE SECRET ~201-306052

OFFICE

CA/CE

ErT.

7767

1 - EUR/BC/UK

1 - RID - files Y

2 - CA/CF

COORJIGATINS

OFFICE STMSOL

DATE

DESPERATE

OMS/OD

EUR/BC/UK

• сот 196:

PS

PIST

¡ABSTRACT

INDE

RELEASING

OFFICE STADOL

DC /CA

Tropes

FOR 53

uSE PREVIOUS EDITOR.

DISPATCH

141

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFSCATION

TYBAT SECRET SECRET

EISPATCH SYNICE ANC NUMBLR

OEPW = 405

2. In terme of our operational utilization of

_/l at this time,

while they reserve finite comment until all the returna (per above) are in, the

Medical Staff did stress the paramount importance roper rest and el not over-

taring the strength of the agent, coupled with his strict adherence to regular.

warm, balanced meals In accordance with the dietary restrictions usually imposed,

anil complete absence of alcohol, in order to prevent a relapso. So long as these

caveats are adhered to, however, there is no reason why he could not make some

more short trips during the next few months. if necessary. However, since he

also has an office to set ap and we would like him to concentrate on thel

offer, perhaps it would be a good idea to keep those trips to a minimum for the

time being.

The Medical Staff will be glad to review any further chemieal tests per

parl. I above susgestions, or any others which his doctor may have already run.

JULIAR. CONGREVE

H92H90

1TTA1540

530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

8A08

RYBAT SECRETSECRET. CONTINUO

---

## Page 11

14-00000

sy.r.n.

DISPATCH

CASSEKATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCLSSING ACTION

MARKED FOR BIDERING

10

NO.

FROM

SUBECT

Chief, WOLIME

Chief of Station,

Chief. EUR Division

Acting Chief. ICPIPIT/

DTDORIC/Operational

Illness

NO ENDERRIS REQUIRED

OUR Y QUALIFIED DESI

CAR JUDGE BODING

KERFORTH Acting)

MICROFILI

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. At their meeting on 4 September

V1 submitted a

report to RODIGAST on his hospitalization for

to his report is a copy of this medical record with results of

written in Serbo-Croatian.

forwarding a copy of the report under separate cover for evaluation

by the Medical Staff. We are interested in having as thorough as

possible an evaluation made of

Vl's illness in order that

we may assure ourselves of his condition and the degree to which

he ought to be active in the forthcoming months. We will appre-

ciate it if Headquarters will pursue this matter with the Medical

Staff and advise us of its findings and recommendations.

Also forwarded under separate cover is a memorandum

prepared from RODIGAST's notes which elaborates upon I

VI's

symptoms•

110.2

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c

1 -1

V1 Report & Medical Record

2 - Memorandum for the Record

Distribution:

L3 - C/WOLIME w/atts

1 - COS

w/o atts

1 - C/EUR w/o atts

BY RIP .-,

-12tg.5

BOSS BEFERENCE 10

CS COPY

DISPARCH SYMBOL AND HUALBER

OEPA-1312

GASIFCANOI

SECRET/RYBAT

901-30605-2

DARE

10 September 1968

HOS FILE WLANDER

---

## Page 12

1

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO: OEPA-1312

BOUT

What I had thought was a touch of

Jand the extreme

fatigue I felt when I returned tol

Tin July proved 1n

time to have been acute infectious

_ The disease

- which takes tho to three weeks to develop - was probably

contracted in _

At least, I Imagine so because my

principal contact inl

insisted on taking me to a ramber

of local restaurants of dubious cleanliness to sample

delicacies.

was diagnosed by a doctor in Komiza, Vis, where

my family had been holidajing since the beginning of July.

nd i was hospitalized in the isolation section of spil

ospital (there 1s no hospital on Vis) on the 7th of August

indicated

by one finger and

fairly

consisted of

Treatment

with massive

doses of vitamins.

I was put on

a fat-free diet, which I have been told to

follow for at least six months. Naturally, no alcohol:

On 20 August, I was released from the hospital, mainly be-

cause I was pestering the doctors to let me go. a was

told to have t

"absolute rest" for four to six weeks and to

have another blood test within several weeks.

(Attached Is the Yugoslav doctor's description of my case

nd treatment, with results of alll

It 1s written exaxttan in Serbo-Croatian.)

THIS ENTERINE TO UTE DO? EEP TESTINE SEESCE.

IT 18 HOT 00 13 10 99: ÷

Go COPY

#Is an he

OPA / 3/2

331 - 90655

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SEPARATE COV: ATTACHMENT 2 TO:

OEPA 1312

7 September 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

1 Illness

The following information was obtained by t

from is /1 at their meeting on 4 Septenber 1968.

supplements the report which was submitted by tase/1 which

deals with his recent hospitalization for

2 Toward the end of his

trip Gheg/1 had been

feeling rather weak and nauseous, with no appetite.

He was

constipated, feverish and had gas pains.

These symptoms

persisted and after his return from|

land on 6 August,

while in Yugoslavia on vacation, l

raays suttered from acute

gas pains and vomiting.

vacationing,

He was taken from Vis, where he was

to Split where he was hospitalized. The address

of this hospital is:

Opca Bolnica

Zarazni Odjel (Firule)

Split, Yugoslavia

His doctor was DI. Juraj FILIPOVIC-

3. M/l's treatment was free inasmuch as he was able

to show his British National Health Card and a reciprocity

agreement exists between Britain and Yugoslavia.

aa/1 states that at no time did he receive

narcotics nor was he ever unconscious.

During his stay in the

hospital a young British youth (Derek WHITTAKER, age 19, from

Shorehan-by-Sea, Surrey) was in his ward suffering from food

poisioning.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

THIS MATERIAL HES BEEN ACQUIRED ET SERGITIVE SOURCE.

IT IS NOT TO BE HOUTED OUTSIDE HESIPIENTS DIVISION

BA STIFF, CISCENIRATES, RELATED TO THE FIELD, OK FORM

THE BESIS FEB COESITIOFCL FOLLERIA, WITHOUT PROS

COBECIBATION VIITH S:GA/CF.

ES CSPI

5680306952

---

## Page 14

Aámittedís the sectes.

lar

7. Augeat, 1968

Obsessation:

medical heoty; the patect had felt for

ahout a wrck

Clenceal observation unda hair

fallike, showel:

---

## Page 15

pest showed damage z tha

f an average mature,

resenting

was made / see finalugs.

A a it was nececury to continee

---

## Page 16

trealment the dress, the fathead asted

to be dischangel unde no duct supericion.

Dragnavo:

Treatment: Only Seito-Graten uvedo

tramlatle The estion, Name of trego

me English

Discharged - 20 Aug

2. 1968 ca

... necovaded

He patent neute to stare atrolate

frust stay it home, follows dest as metructS,

ender arpean door and contral

for cheet 14 days

He will continue with the

recommendel medicines Imedicines

---

## Page 17

not Inanslated. Onla teeto-Croation sids

Tranalated

and fire the depe lingen the condition

The patient

while he

take

Translation penceleden on attaclanent,

where mean po could he forml.

---

## Page 18

first

TRICA!

ubservatio Malarias

PrIBLIER DE E3T2ZIY adjEL TOVITI. 68. pod IC&

Breinjo Jasos

D'AGIZZAS

Into jo brio petIcaco sotavite

Essecenje a bolnicl, boleen'k

50l1 atp ust tu do un ituce espusco

tabletsion

Ernies depo me flast chola angerin gets era

Dean A3p

OIFUSTEH8

Zatrebao jo castarsit appolutna merovanjo a luénag jeal,

Mit! 13h1 D0 1011 13 3271274 1171470 -

a 8 f745966053 21 25010-24 Mano

denie:-for

Odgel51-1998839168

/dT.7•7111590e81

ATERIAL HAS BEEN A: QJIELD ET SESSITIYE SQUEGE.

IT IS HOT TO BE EGLTED BUIJOLE CECILETS® CIVISION

99 STIFF, GISTERI ITE". MILOTES TO " TILE, CAF3M

SECRET

---

## Page 19

THIS MATERIAL HAS SEEN ASQUEED BY SETSITIVE SCURCE

IT IS NOT 8O BE ISITEC OUTSSCE DESIRENTS CIVISION

7I STIF, CISSIMINATES, RELATED TO THE BELS. GA POSI

ỌL BISS SCE GILINER'L FELLEH-UP. WITHCOT PROS

SEGRET

---

## Page 20

34.00000

1 0 1 2

CABLE SECHITARAT D

ĐN(3709190

Села

I мото

BRO MERIAGE

TOTAL COMES

SECRET

GROAD I

(When Fated don

MODUCTION OF THIS CONY PROMENTED

- 10G

in 00655910

ROUTINE ANDVD INITIA

8j*

9

1801

75413

DRANCH LICE DESTROYDR

ACTION

dA 3

TRO COPy

•PS

DES?

ABSTRACT

IDat

DALP

SECRET 661556 SEP 68 CITE LCIPIT

'5726

(PARFORIH ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO

RYBAT DIDORIC

6S 68 i 868054

/I MET A SEPTEMBER IN

HE NOW UP

AND ABOUT FOLLOWING HOSPITALIZATION FOR

BUT MUST

SEVERELY RESTRICT ACTIVITIES FOR AT LEAST NEXT MONTH. SOME

ITEMS OF INTEREST OBTAINED WHICH BEING FORWARDED BY IM.

2. NEXT MEETING SET UP FOR

18 SEPTEMBER •

SECRET

BT

NAN!

A$0:

HUNT

B884

CS COPY

201-306052

SECRET

---

## Page 21

14-00000

NAME

CD

09

EARNINGS

NORMAL

OTHER

89000

2000

SECRET

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

"EMPLOVEE NO

PAY PERIOD DATE TROLL

802799

08/08 08/38

20

1968

DESCRIPTION

REG SAL

COST CENTER

1242930

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

STA

000

CD

80

DEDUCTIONS

NORMAL

OTHER

9000- 2000-

89000|

2000

9000

2000

DESCRIPTION

LIO PAYHY

CPA EX CR

FED TAX F

REMARICHa

Amendment for additional compensation and tax liability ircreased from $870.00 to

$890.00 per month for free compensation at $300.00 per month, effective l July 1968.

detual anount of tax liability ibereased from $70.00 to $90.00 per monta, for the

July 1968 pay period.

802799

FOR 1314 Previous editions obsolere

SECRET

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA

RATE

OfT-#т дит

#/D AMOUNT

REFUND DUE FROM EMPLOYEE

Co

NORMAL

OTHER

70:

NET

NORMAL

PAY

OTHER

CD

100

REMARKS:

PAID AT HOS

#-63

1315A

SECRET

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

TAYCZ A L'ORONEO

I: ON OL BANDING 30S0E3

=

• C/ 14.68. 608

5225

2- 7039

3 :

Ce97a

•.^-

anaa.."»

•o."..

iag.t 1i1)!

• 8.2.0.

'**:

nss-2991- 3i0isi- ,i9 rimasio

---

## Page 24

14-00000

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 27

nepatini inc rt Neale

-cuwalei

1.

sn hunt ie mizun tien

14-00000

---

## Page 28

14-00000

Chant of station,

Increased Federal Insas tea ISab111ty 11, Apiayes 50, 802799

Gayle file

In cospltunos with the rucent Ducteent of the Revenue onl

Expenditure Contral Act of 1563, Subjeet'e tax 11ab121ty hea Increas

From $70.00 to 180.00 per porta, This supremento the edditional

Curtan elina al begins ulth the July 1960 pay periodo firective

2 Decesher 1563 (1469 RAs Juar) the tor 11ab111ty w111 ba reduced to

130.00 pes month.

Pan Station abould effect the ebange end contle

to y/1 ens ulthholtan to Heelquesters.

BASIS C. VICOLSE

3 - G/8,

15 AUG 1966

8 Ammont 1963

CEMs-226

BEGRIT

(8 Augast 2968)

€213

1 - SIR/DIV.

3

, - APB/СЛАВ

2 - 0/Registry

2-201

1g AUS 1999

167 249395,-m J. Pa-fai

---

## Page 29

ta-stator

Reports

International news & features

Opéa Balmica

Fiale

Spirt

Yugoslavia

B Augest 1968.

Does 4r.

Unrespaste le

_ c202, 2

The tectuant is good and

Quad

martt. There

Anal the the

- d0/-

restrat

---

## Page 30

test, a do not tide en slingtte will be dry, iently seatored for

that sont, Snyway, we shall iee...

back in a heat rooms,;

Se able to meet all my apore mistrents in I

asks at the beginnin

sout wanted to taw th

fix's alteution, as soon co

cheet t lane with i ain i on te in

Very orceral, yours,

(ЭM1A24)

.N52s

BY AIR MAIL

PAR AVION

---

## Page 31

FBI doc

a On

= 68 (NG

Re

Formerly Known

Debile: 100-357044

obile: 100-93572

---

## Page 32

14-00000

NAME

09

EARNINGS

NORMAL

OTHER

74600

SECRET

n...

(WHEE FILLED IN)

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

EMPLOYEE NO

PAY PERIOD DATE

102799

BA 0300038 | 120

DESCRIPTION

REG SAL

COST CENTER

1240162

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

STA

000

ICD

DEDUCTIONS

NORMAL

74600

4600

OTHER

7200

DESCRIPTION

CPA EX CR

FED TAX F

REMARICIA

J/1 270 fros

transferred taxes for the month of Dee.,

Jan., and Fed. In. the

anount of $210.0.

$70.00 for encb.

payrolled was 146.00 each nonth, adjustaont

sade berewith.

Sub-object core changes for lecounting Only.

INPLOTRE NUMbER

ORPHONE /1

10 7312 Previous editions obsolete

Ca/Staff 000

(30-581

SECRET

pp

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA

RATE

Or?-HT ANT

#/D AMOUNT

REFUND DUE FROM EMPLOYEE

Co!

NORMAL

OTHER

NET

PAY

NORMAL

OTHER

REMARKS:

86

- 4600=

1200-00|

PAID AT MOS

•FORM 1315A

SECRET

(30. 988

at's

---

## Page 33

14-00009

omar

wan CA/CF

aar: 7767

-23 Apr 68

CAME EICHITATILAY DOONHANNLATON

CAS

MESSAGA FORM

TOTAL COPISI

SECRET

(22)

D

BOUTINO AND/ON 11A25 SERIE 868

DJ no not

I COPY

• TO

SECRET

ICPIPIT INFO

DTDORIC ORPREY

REF: DEPA 1003, 19 MARCH 68

MOC APPROVED.

I 16087

RETU IN TO

→ IRANCH

200-124-156/2

..ERS, GA/prope cheze

(reference menber

CYE DAICTOR

95170

(ples)

END OF MESSAGE

CA/PERS

CA/B&F

DC/CA

EUR/BC/UK

CICA

...:.

"..

COOTOPMATRE OFFICER

WOMASTE OFFICEH

Bachand fred Automats

SECRET

'REPRODUION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Chief, CA/CF

COM NO

---

## Page 34

SECRET RICAT

REVISED MEMORALDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

/1 collaborates with WOFIRM as a Field Agent who

provides certain services of a confidential nature. He has

received a Provisional Operational Approval, dateà Z3 MAY 66.

Financial aspects of his activity are charged to approved Project

/1's employment by WOFIRM, which began 1 June 1965.

was originally formalized by a Letter of Agreement for a period

of three months, replaced by a Memorandum of Oral Cormitment dated

1 September 1965.

amended) since that date._

Under this MOC, which remains in effect (as

_/1°g employment continues on a

month-to-month basis. It can be terninated by either party on a

30-day notice.

3.

V1 receives the following financial entitlements:

a. Compensation so computed as to give l

V1 a

"tax-free" income of $800 per month (this figure

effective l July 1967).

NOTE:

The actual breakdown ofl

Vi°s finances

as carried on *OFIRM's books is $800 monthly salary

and $70 per month tax supplement withheld at Head-™

quarters to dischargeL

VI'S WOLADY tax

obligation. These taxes are remitted through

Covert Tax Committee.

This procedure was devised

to honor the original "tax free" commitment made

at the time of his recruitment and at the same

time to fulfill the requirement that all WOLADY

citizens pay taxes on funds received fron LNFORT.

?.

Reimbursement for operational expenses and travel

unless these are paid by other sources in which

case WOFIRM will offset such outside reimbursement

against WOFIRM financial obligations tol

Vl..

Since security considerations preclude processing

of detailed accountings for miscellaneous opera-

tional expenses, and as an added inducement to

V1 in connection with his obtaining certain

confidential information of interest to WOFIRM, a

small operational payment, as authorized by Chief,

ICPIPIT will be made tol

11 for each day

during which he is required to be absent from his

home on confidential business.

NOTE Write-off of the funds passed to 1

is to be effected on the basis of the procedure

approved by chief, ICPIPIT and COS/

_a copy

of which is attached. This procedure is authorized

in view of the security considerations applicable

to

V1 and the need to limit the knowledge

of this operation within WOHlACE.

V1 is authorized to receive a non-accountable

office allowance of $100 per month.

SECRETICAI

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRETRVZAT

- 2-

4.

1 will be compensated by NOFIRM in an amount

upon for the relocation of himself and his

family to a new residence if such relocation is considered

desirable by him and WOFIRM. NOTE:

This provision was included

this MOC since it may be operationally desirable for L

We pricini come do aframent and was retained in

to accept employment with a target organization based elsewhere.

WOFIRM has arranged for a portion of

we has been don

for operational reasons to enablel

→ to qualify for

foreign residence.

Should QRPURE be obliged to honor this commit-

ment. WOFIRM will guarantee this ORPURE commitment and will

reimburse QRPURE for any costs incurred.

6. ICPIPIT is authorized to approve purchase by

of certain items of operational equipment which are to be non-

accountable and which shall be charged against the operational

expense category of approved Project

Vi signed a separate Secrecy Agreement (in true.

namel at the time of his original recruitment.

He is aware that

its provisions are still in effect.

8.

to time,

V1 is aware that he may be reguired, from time

undertake an SCSWIRL.

Il is aware of all provisions of the Memorandum

of Oral Cormitment with the exceptions of paragraph 6, which

describes an internal NOFIRM procedure; certain aspects of para-

graph 3a--specifically that WOFIRM is paying INFORT taxes in

his behalf; and certain aspects of paragraph 3b-specifically

the procedure for write-off of funds since this is an internal

WOFIRM procedure.

SIGNED:

farm C Laginestra

Aaron C. LAGINESJTRA

Case Officer

REVIEWED AND APPROVED:

Masloft

Adrian B.

MASLOTT

Chief, ICPIPIT

Date

===.

Tel C 11-2604-68.

(1 for FO

'for

LeS SECRET ORAT

agili 25, 1968

---

## Page 36

MESSAGE FORU

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

(22)

BITCH:

CA/CF

x*?.

T76T

DATe 23 Apr. 6B

CASTE SICHITARLAY ONSETIMLATION

Cone,

3*

CAS

HE COPY

(don hamen)

SECRET

TO

LCPIPIT INFO|

DTDORIC QRPREY

REF: OEPA 1003, 19 MARCH 68

MOC APPROVED.

C

mONK

NO MIDEN

D

DESTROY

to caled,

27 16012

METURN TO

PILA At CE PRA NO.

200-128-1612

ERS, CA/pRope alieza

(oTito)

ChE DIECTOR

95170

END OF MESSAGE

CA/PERS

CA/B&F

DC/CA

EUR/BC/UK

201)

C7CA

Chief, CA/CI

EDORDIATIVO OFICERS

SECRET

coded from stanat

arending

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED..

AMERICATI

COPY #Q

---

## Page 37

14-00000

7

ISECRET

23 April 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/CA/SO

DC /CA

VIA:

SUBJECT:

11 Memorandun of Oral Commitment

1. Forwarded herewith le the original revised MOC for

enomitted by epip headie le he road red ed Morea 1968. The

flold requeste sotification of approval.

2. The MOC appeare to cover adequately all pointe prevlously at

lanne: it Is therefore requested that, subject to DC/CA approvai and

CA/PERS and CA/B&I concurrence, the attached outgoing cable to

LOPIPIT algalfying thie approval be coordinated and released.

1. It lo also reqrested that the MOC be further transmitted to the

Office of Finance, via appropriate admialstrative procedures.

18.

Chief, CA/CT

Attachments: 2

Cable to field

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

2 - CA/CEN

SECRET

201

---

## Page 38

Who said th is CIA agent:

1 Anderrson said

Frauz Fauor Fustilute in 1964

tald

been amundle pand the had recently

ClA agent (

had notyeen

since 1952

(20/2/66-1

rept.) €

paid

Re had been accused of the

face thing, by whom unsgecified)

3. "Britesh"

told Franz

Lease -

201

---

## Page 39

1069

BRITISH VISA GRANTED

On 10 April 68, I vas finally granted a British vloa,

1 thout restrictions, valid until 15 Feb. 1969. Mo

questions were asked when I vent to the Home Office

to get the visa.

Hy Home Office file number 1ms G 110880.

Fros the Metropolitan Police, I received Aliens Regietration

Certificate & 662567, which lists ne as correspondent for

I was told by the police that I could apply within a year

to have the registration requirement valverod because I

i married to a British subject. Moreover, I an feee t

ake any sort of employment or open a business wit bout

restr10t1oDy or having to reguest permianion fron the

Miniatry of labour®

TM 007385 23/4/68

*3P.1

•gai

---

## Page 40

BoT. 1

1070

HOME OFFICE

Princeton House, 878 High Holbors, LONDON W.C.&

Telegrams: Abdep. London

#CI

Telephone 01-405 4321

Teler 261867

Please addres emy reply do

THE UNDER SICKITANT

CУ STATE

and goate:

6116880

10.4.68

Date of Birth

17•5".31

Passport farticular

OV. Pomport no.

issued on 1.12.68.

This is to cortlfy that the bearer of this jetter, named

above, does not reguire to obtain persission of the

Miniatry of Labour or of the Rome Office before tadne

onployment, either paid or unpaid, In Groat Britals.

(Por work in Northern Ireland the Ministry of Labour and

lational Insurance for Northern Ireland sbould be

consulted. The bearer is free, so far as the Home Offloe

In concerned, to set up 1z business, subjeot to any

statutory laws and regulations governing the business.or

professional aotivitles in wich bo/fe may be Interested.

This Jetter ahould be retained for produation to the

Unistsy of labour os other authority 1I required.

for Under Seoretary of State

Tot 07238512-574168

---

## Page 41

1071

INLAND REVENUR MONOLOGUE (required)

Until April of this year (1968), I lived mainly on asaistance

from my wilo's fanily and occasional freelance journalian

outside Britain. Also, I had some savings and Investmenta

In America and Suitzerland to drav upon.

My brother in

larg

purchased a house at 32 Hartswood Road,

Stanford Brook, London, Wol2 for us - the price of the

house being considered & loan to be repaid over the year

as 1s possible. My children's school fees vore paid by

convenant by my brother-in-law, as vell as a grant 1n

convenant to my youngest daughter.

I vas not a legal resident of the UK. until B April

1968, and on that date I began officially my duties

an Overseas Representative and Correspondent for

with a salary of 8300

per month.

TM+ 072385, 23/4/48

---

## Page 42

ere-ng: + 2-96,009-145

1072!

My brother-in-lav askod me to send him from abroad the following

Idtter, which I mailed on 16 April 68 from Rotterdam.

Jeffreys, Henry Ran Rudolph & Marks

Lee Huuse

Londonx Wall, E.C.2

Dear Sirs,

Yours faithfully,

Trt 285 231418

L

---

## Page 43

1.

DISPATCH

CLASSIE NATION

SECRRIRIBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKID FOR INDEXAG

070

Chief, POLINE

Chlet of Station,

Chief. KuR Divialon

NO IDFXING REQUIRID

¡ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN SIDGE INDEXING

F230

SANC

Chief, IPIPIE/

DIDORIC/HAPROBa/Operational

Memorandun of Oral Comnitment

MICROFILM

ACTION NEOUNCED • REFEREACES

References:

OPH-160, dated 18 October 1967

OEPA-240, dated 21 September 1967

l. Forwarded under separate cover to a revised Memorandar of

Oral Commitment covering the HOFIPM relationship with

V1.

This revision reflects most of the suggestions made in Reference A.

2. As said in Reference B. l

1 does not fall into the

category of HOTIRl asset usually handled by ICPIPIT. This fact

plas the vesy stringent security considerations which mst apply

to thie operation dictata that certain procedire be followed in"

Vi's case. Handling of this case has been facilitated by

Headquarters" understanding and approval of the need for such care.

We roquest that this revised Memorandun of Oral Comitment

bo approved, and that we be so notified.

AarOn C. LAGIHESTRA

Attachment: a/s/c

Memorandan.

Distribution:

3 - C/HOLINE w/att

1. COSL

1w/o att

1 - C/EUR W/0 att

CROSS REFERENCE 10

DISPATCY STICROL AND RUMSER

OBPA- 1003

BICRETRYBAT

TOATE

8001

19 March 1968

MOS FILL MUMBER

---

## Page 44

REVISED MCMORANDUM OF ORAL COUMITMENT

1.

fl collaborates with wort?! as i Field Agent sho

provides

cortain scrvices of a confidential nature.

lIc has

received a Provisional Operational Approval, datca 28 MAy 66.

Financial aspects of his activity are charged to approved Project

QRPHONE •

VI's employment by WOFIRM, which began 1 June 1965,

was originally formalized by a lotter of Agrecent for a period

of three months, replacca by a Memorandum of Oral Commitment dated

amended) since that date.

month-to-month basis. It can be terminated by either party on a

30-day notice.

3.

I receives the following financial entitlements:

a Compensation so computed as to give

"tax-free" income of $800 per nonth (this figure

to give lenis Figure

effective 1 July 1967).

NOTE:

The actual breakdown of

as carried on NOFIRM's books is $800 monthly salary

and $70 per month tax supplement withheld at Headd

quarters to discharge l

V1's WOLADY tax

ohligation. These taxes are remitted through the

Covert Tax Cormittee.

This procedure was devised

to honor the original "tay froc" commitmont made

at the time of his recruitment and at the same

time to fulfill the requirement that all WOLADY

citizens pay taxes on funds received from INFORT.

b. Reimbursement for operational expenses and travel

unless these are paid by other sources in which

case WOFIRM will offset such outside reimbursement

against WOFIRY financial obligations tol

11.

Since security considerations preclude processing

of detailed accountings for miscellaneous opera

tional expenses, and as an added inducement to

Vi in connection with his obtaining certain

confidential information of interest to WOFIRM, a

small operational payment, as authorized by Chief.

LCPIPIT will be made to

V1 for each day

during which he is required to be absent from his

home on confidential business.

NOTE:

Write-off of the funds passed to

is to be effected on the basis of the procedure

approved by Chief, ICPIPIT and COS/L

• a copy

of which is attached. This procedure is authorized

in view of the security considerations applicable

toL

Il and the need to limit the knowledge

of this operation within WOMACE.

C.

V1 is authorized to receive a non-accountable

office allowance of $100 per month.

SEORET

1301

---

## Page 45

14-00000

29091

50-1:0217

- 2 -

/1 will be compensated by WOFIRM in an amount

agrced upon for the relocation of himself and his

family to a new residence if such rclocation is considered

desirable by him and WOFIRM. NOTE: This provision was included

VI's original letter of Mgreement and was retained in

Liis MCC since il may be operationally desirable forl

to accept employnent with a target organization based elsewhere.

5. WOFIRM has arranged for a portion of L

Vis finan

cial entitlements to be funded to him by ORPURE, which has also

agreed to repatriate

for operational reasons to cableL

P1 to WOLADY.

This has been done

11 to qualify for

foreign residence. Should QRPURE be obliged to honor this comnit

ment, WOFIRM will guarantee this QRPURE commitment and will

reimburse QRPURE for any costs incurred.

6- LCPIPIT is authorized to approve purchase byl

of certain items of operational couipment which are to be non-

contact me pee against the operational

expense category of approved Project L

/1 signed a separate Secrecy Agreement (in true

name) at the time of his original recruitment. He is aware that

its provisions are still in effect.

to time.

Y1 is aware that he may be required, from time

to undertake an SGSWIRL®

V1 is aware of all provisions of the Memorandum

of Oral Commitment with the exceptions of paragraph 6, which

describes an internal WOFIRM procedure: certain aspocts of para-

graph 3a--specifically that WOFIRM is paying LNFORT taxes in

his behalf: and certain aspects of paragraph 3b--specifically

the procedure for write-off of funds since this is an internal

WOFIRM procedure.

SIGNED:

Aarm C Laginestra.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Case Officer

REVIEWED AND APPROVED:

Maviott

Adrian B. MASLOTT

Chief, ICPIPIT

Date

?:-::

SECRET OZAT

---

## Page 46

.=. ^ SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR TILE RECORD

SUBJECT:

_/1 FINANCES

lo

Tris memorandum outlines a new procedure which is to se

come n the handling of the operational costa of field agene

This new procedure is being instituted in order to

cance the security and compartmentation of the handling

-jainistrative aspect of this project and parallels revisions in

händling of operational traffic.

The new procedure which is

i-s wised below is in accordance with accepted field procedures.

Currentlyl

V1 receives advances and accounts for

ise" ith detailed statemente of expenses accompanied by erue

.. me receipts, etc.

These accountings and the accompanying

..* "pts have been maintained in the ICPIPIT files.

This syster

= iu be changed. Henceforth monies for operational expenses

... be given

_1 by his handler (Career Agent Rufus P....

RiDEGAST) and will be carried on RODIGAST's accountings as oper

scional expenses supported by receipts from

1/1 ackn: w1-

edging reccipt of the funds. This RODIGAST accounting and the

V1 receipt will be used for write-off of the funds againes

approved projectl

No detailed accountings and no

receipts carrying

/1'g true name are to be maintained in

the ICPIPIT/Admin files.

3. It will be the responsibility of Chief, ICPIPIT and the

. soject case officer to ensure that L

Vl is supplied with

i? runds necessary for the furtherance of the operation and to

-Bure that these amounts are carefully controlled to avoid over-

silent. In discharging this responsibility the Chief, ICPIPI

soupied by the paymente.

AP2:04ED:

Chief: LCPIPIT

1/20/68

Date

Chief of Station, I

Date

SECRET

---

## Page 47

*PKF

FBI dec

30

Dan. 68 (wash.)

Re:

no Bufil geven

-rE""

--i?:

i'"tii

iiai-si

2A0ER-CUGA

i. iiiin

"iies a?"..

---

## Page 48

14-00000

4. -11

DISPATCH

SECREIRYBAT

Chief, WOLINE

chief of Scation,

#0.

Chiet of Station,

]Chief of Base;

(Chief. EUR Division

FROM

Chief. LCPIPIT/

kôm

DIDORIC/MHPROBE/Operational

ACTION REOLARED - RSFEREHCES

References:

PROKESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR BOXING

308 1180 RULEXING REQUIREO

DREY QUALIFIED DESA

CAIN JUDGE INDEXING

J2464

ICPIPIT- 1711

Ion's report on hist

We are forwarding under separate cover a copy of

In it

V1 concludes that the l

I must have

learned of his planned arrival through a phone tap on a call

he made to

from Italy on the l8th of January

2. Regarding [

/l's statement in paragraph two of

his report concerning his having visited

many times "

sirce 1963, please see PALP-4738 of 1 October 1965.

V1 has been instructed not to pursue any further

protests with the authorities (either L

_Jor American) over

this matter.

Aaron C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: u/s/c

Report

istribution

3 - C/WOLIME w/at

COs/

w/att

COS/

w/o att

C/EUR w/o att

1 - COB

w/att

-EUR BOUK,

afo

CORES NEERBICI TO

200-124-15013

DISPANCH SYMBOL AND IMAGI

eS COPY

OEPA-892

CLASSIFICATON

SECRET/RYBAT

DATE

6 February 1968

201-306052

---

## Page 49

14-00000

1000238

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:

OEPA-892

ES COPL

Pre traer identido década de o a 4, esa esa cié acad oraciste po de te

---

## Page 50

14-00000

—etat Emoh-A. Onea

-Jatiry

• 1 tm.

say an inaia anta a an angaen, écaea- -

ledi t aanasaiee + 1 58-1003

---

## Page 51

14-00000

ara de diera esa

""

en tartam

---

## Page 52

14-00000

:J.8868

"TAX HAN

.67200

"'

802799

SECRET.

24.

000

198% EARNINGS

FICA WAN

Sti: TAX WAH

TAX GROSS

945200

SECRET

Paid Gross by Cover

Tax Corn Reten Rea

Flat Rate Tax W/H

---

## Page 53

SECRET

20 December 1967

(C-2929)

MENORANDUM FOR: CA/CT

SUBJECT:

Accountings from

Enclosed in the attached sealed envelope are copies

of accountings from

/1.

Chief,

Central Cover Staff

Nonofficial Cover Branch

Attachments: One

201 - 306057

Dec

€7

201306052

SECRET

---

## Page 54

4-00001

---

## Page 55

DISPATCO ISS

Cline of iitis..

for LCPIPIT

• MT-999. 1l "96.?95

...

771.

let centener, teared to the percerople as

2. 1202-:

Dinaro con Beforeen 3, DIDAT dispatch.

i. Fare. 2:

1- indicated in the 192 & corering dispatch. l

J'1's initial

→-:0d999n the 1 Fopierbe= 1965 date

wiren in the door

Tinen the dilnelira date of hin relationain sith

mOTIPa: ill one day be tio hario lor an equitable icrminal settloment, 05

angs in amerior"s collect thir:

"OFIR vhiei bogan 1 Jene 1965, was origirally formaliced ls; a Letter

Oral Conritient dared I Feptombor 1955. Winder this MOG, rich remalas

11's engle non: Contineas

en a month-90-50n9 banis. I: con to termleated hy either party on 30-doy

netice."

(continoed)

Dintribation:

?. - COs,

1 - CCs,

COFFE

CITE

.:= CA/BEF

- CA/Personnel d

1. 0/01/50

1 - EUR/BC/UK

2. CAICI

1 - RID-Files

OCDY-160

DIENCITER

ST E Cra

T 2232%

NCXA71

CFFICE

CA/CF

CCOR "ATEG

CITE 5995

raTE

CA/B%F

CA/PERS

C/CA/SO

EUP 50/1

21*:

C/CA

8138

86 VeT gạe7

200-124-756/2

EXT.

7767

DISPATCH

---

## Page 56

* sectua

0.7111

a trend oppose gas to "he lior 6i

-i(9n319-01-409-10i

"iy rer-crisa:.

I17-0n? C6-e9i03

sticino timore barra:

cara terrie

me never: the 1 0009 10 09957, ind cho-des: 1001 meet this

?.

13

•-m 0013996999273

Funeral auda masoner atta presensis-

Tochт"1.00-9090103.

•0=9 2002-91 C93201109

=09990 919

-r0a3-0"

3m940: 6027721

35

Ul'a por cirmle eclinition

hare to deaned 16r fee each moori

stallce a scenting li.c..

porcis cossesponderce pian tis."

3CSXL: 63 0^ 110 - 65121. 23 60

ce in this regara.

The amour: that

and roceive froster finnacint ercistance

moll an craratienal recto mci's is travoi

caragrand be amoried an arait

to

crin

Vileras dion:o:"

amount to be cat in sitenco:

ana 202 Cant 8:1ll, of ecsore, filli reed

recounting ice crosy moal he cosrecily

renciation"

that Sãr ba doducied farm. tin sez dier,

mater:

the fir, 00 repreranse.

""elesic it

ey to yes as to wrich anorism roy wich incised in the gral 1105, bot in

any eyond me congest dont i: lo incorporated in the bedt citie geragrape,

2 tin hame no Initia= commenta concert, the remain"- cate iCO.

3. E9:os eonerr sig to abora enegections, flease recahmit an amended

M0c wiich woald alan Icheet Asece arcticaal elongos.

Tic ara testy n0: to

hasinoss innies to

a mohaD i missica interesti

11212

JULIAR. CO-C-EVE

9-59

CHEESHICATIC!I

SIC22T

FAGENO.

COOTINUE

---

## Page 57

14-00009

:

Viet

SECRET

RYBAT

26 September 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: CCS /NE

SUBJECT:

ORPUREN

I Relationship

1. Tble sill confirm our converuation of 18 September 1967, in

which we discussed

/1'a plan to visit ORPURE some time

during the week of 25 september 1967, and you agreed to give CRPURE 12

prlor warning of this visit. In accordance with the name conversation

I/1 was briefed that hie violt should be mainly a question of

touching base with ORPURE, maybe a friendly luacheor eith &RPURE 12

• but that no subotantive discussions affecting thuir ostennible rela

tionchip (1.0., amount of money, amount of

Ill production for!

ORPURE, etc.) were to take place. You were to brief CRPURE/2

orialnal thinking, we would now like to have

whenever ORPURE /2 feele he can do so.

1/1 gives a

2. In addition to the above, we would appreclate it 1 you would

inke up with ORPURE/? (and/o: ORPURE/1, as appropolate) the pos=

•ibility of Increauing the amount of money funded to l

ORPURE. As indiented to you, we would like to Increase the current

$100.00 monthly to $300. 00 monthly, but would like your careful

examination with ORPURE principal(s) that this amoun. Is not excen-

•ive elther in terme of their willingness to handle or In terms of

ORPURE's ostensible ability to cover.

3. Please also mention to ORPURE /Z our desIre to have

and our thought of perhaps ineluding

ORPURE (along with other

as a name on the door or on

his letterhead. Viould ORPUREIZ (Or ORPURE/I) have ›ry objections?

Would he have any objections If any of the other names are of more

_It would not be operationally feasible or destr

able to let him inow in advance which there would be, but since both

RICAT

SECRET

".

201- 306052

---

## Page 58

14-00000

SACHET

ANDAT

ORPURE's have been brialed carefully as la

aura, presumably they would have a good idea as to the kind of

]these might be.

4. For operational reasons, we would prefer that the arrange.

mento indicated in paras 2 and 1 above not be broached until after

/l'a departure from the United States, some time ls mid-

We will advise you of hla departure so that you cas make the

necessary arrangements therealter at your convenience.

Chief, CA/CF

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addiessee - Attn:

Z - CA/CF Y

Routed thru DC /CA

SEGRET

WBAT

---

## Page 59

1d-0d0d

OUTINS AED/OR POTIALS - SEE SY

Gran

BRE SSAОВ PORN

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

488578

CA/Cr

aa8.

7767

DATE 18:0ct, 67

CABLA SACHETANIAE DOSSLARIUATICH

D

Conn

a/Ca/e 2

ERID COPY

I DESTRON

008 .v8

D

RETURN TO

BRANCI

O MR

201-306052

• PH ME ME NOTON

200 HA 53/

201-197133°

CHELS SEC TRUE T

SECRET

Ост 19 15 11'Z

CITE DIRECTOR 4 7 5 0

"ICPIPIT INFO

RYBAT DTDORIC

7

1. FOR SECURITY REASONS RELATING TO ITS ACTUAL DESCRIPTIVENESS;

IT HAS BEEN DECIDED TO CHANGE THE

CRYPT TO IDEN A. THIS.

NEW CRYPT WILL BE USED HENCEFORTH.

2. TO ASSIST IN EASIER COMMUNICATION IN AN AREA OF HIGH SENSI

TIVITY, THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL CRYPTS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED:

ORPEONY (IDEN B); AND QRPETTY (IDEN C).

3. IN FUTURE, PLS SEPARATE ALL L

' PERSONAL CORRES-

PONDENCE, EXCISE

ONE COPY TO

A NAME, AND FORWARD BY RYBAT CHANNELS

A DIDORIC STAND

ONE COrY TO KEYWAY.

END OF MESSAGE

(eirdraft

CI/OPS/DO

EUR/BC/UK

EUR/CA

T

C/CA

Chief, CA/CF

BILLATIO

SECRET

AFICATE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CS.le/:

- 201-306052

---

## Page 60

14-00000

AND /00 INITIALS

55%

ERNSTE -

CA/CF

Ex 7767

0rs 180c867

CARLE SACHITARIAS DESSEMINATIONS

TOTAL COPIES.

SECRET

DOES DESTROY

no anex

1 961- 366652

BRANCI

c/Coloz

SURID COPY

CARLE

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

• :Г

ICPIPIT INFO

RYBAT DIDORIC

REF: 44750

4147 5 1

7

IDEN A

IDEN B -

IDEN C-

- 201-108746

- 201-248083

END OF MESSAGE

DC/CA

EUR/BC/UK

EUR/CA

C/CA

Chief, CA/CF

I

COORACLATIIS CUFICIES

SECRET

MEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

---

## Page 61

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLACINCA: ON

SECRET

PFOCESSINGACIION

MARTED FOR IDOING

Chief, WOVIEW

COSA

/suppost)

GO MUEUNG REQUIED

ONLY QUALIFED DESI

CAN NICE ICELAG

Chief, LCPIPIT/L

DACROF IN

WIG DIDORIC/Administrative

11 Employeent Agreement

ACTION REQUIRED - REFEMENCES

_I vas recruited by HOPACT On 3 June 1965.

recruitpent was perfored by an officer fron VOMUSE/ICG since

Vl (then known asl

V1) was vieved as a

Y1 has per-

forned well in a difficult and dangerous environnent.

He is a

clandestine agent operatingl

anti-vOLADY

and of pilority interest.

The adminiscration of

11 rEquires

special care since, by the very nature of his role, he is not

typical of the average ICPIPIT asset.

Vi's Initial employnent was by Letter of Agreement

for a period of three tontis. This Letter of Agreement expired

1 September 1965 and was replased by a Memorandun of Oral Comtrent

dated the save day. This oral enployment agrecent rchaing in .

effect at this date-sove two years later-, but has been amended

to adjust compensation. Certain inaccuracies in the original

NOC have also been corrected subsequent to its preparation.

Given

the sensitive nature of

Il's relationship with vorAcT it

1s sometines difficult to adapt the operational reaiities of hie

situation to the administrative regulrements of WOFACT. HOwever.

with great understanding at home and in the field, we have reached

3. In order to coisfy the entitlements and procedures applicable

tovision of not rent die andersed he prayere the a rocheted

that HiS approve this revised HOC and notify ICPIPIT Of approval by

15 october.

Attachment: H

MOC

Distribation:

3 - C/HOVIEN W/atE HiT

1 - COSA

(Support)

CROSS, REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYNCE AND THESER

OEDY - 240

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

AARON C. LAGINESIRA

SEP Er 1347

BATE

21 september 1967

MOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 62

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

cade to. .

PILE MIDL ACE. TO BRANCH D

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

E TOTA: COPIES

SECRET

PARSON-SMIR MUTINIED

REPRODUCTIC& PROHIBATEL

ACTI

ADVAACE COPY

UMIT

TImE

& RID COPY

my ve, gonz, deues, for

!,in

SECRET 3016322 CITE LOPIPIC 1286

DIRECT OR INFO:

RYBAT DIDERIE

0411PR0B5"

1o BELIEVE

'I SHOULD MEET WITH QRFURE

IN ORMER DÄSCI,5S MIS

AND ITS EVORIN ION AND

IMPA CHEME 91, IN =4ST FEW NEEKS"

NOTICED

STILL BEING ISED BY ORPIRE BITT

WITHOUT HiS

THIS MAY INDICATE SOME POLITICAL

SENSITIVITY ON PART OF GAFURE, WHICH WOLD BE iNDER-

STANDFLE, HENEVER THIS MAY NOT BE INE CASE AT ALL.

THIS FIES ORDER OF BUSINESS SHOILD SE FOR HOS TO

DETERGINE STATE OE PRIDE MIND RE

!. IF THIS

POSITiVE, MELTINÜ, WITH HOFACTER PRESENT, WOILD BE

HELPFUL IN SGLDIFTINS RECHIIONSHIP.

& SHOULD SITUATION BE PROFITIOUS WE WILD

APFRECIGIE HQS DISCUSS TWE ITEMS WITH QRPURE ON AN

IN PRINTIOLE BASIS. FIRST, IT WOULD BE DESIRABLE TO

INCREASE THE SIZE OF THE PAYRENTS FROM GRURE ID

THERE IS SUFFICIENTLY

30 AuG 67 # 42 1 38

ni.

SE:"

Gilt fe in

Taler

---

## Page 63

PARE 2 LOPIPIT 1286 SE CP ET

WELL ESTABLISHED TO SUPPORT, AND

INDEED TO REQUIRE,

AY ANNUAL SALAÑY FROM ARPIRE DE AT LEAST S3-A, 908.

WHILE WE UNSURE OF COPIRE'S FEELINGS THIS SUBJECT IT

DIR IMPRESSION HE MOST ACCOYMODATING AND WOULD UNDER-

STAND THAT INCREASE WOULD ENHANCE

H'SI

SECONDLY, WE ARE DISCISSING THE IDEA OF

VI'S

THIS WOULD FACILITATE HIS

OPERATIONS BY GETTING HIM DUT OF HIS HOUSE. IT WOULD

ALSO BE A CONVENIENT

AND

IF COST FACTOR

CAN

BE KEPT MIVIMAL, ENTIRELY

YE DESIRE OSTAIN CRPURE

-REACTION TO IDEA

OF

I HAVING

GA FIRE

EITHER ALONE OR IN TANDEM WITH

V1

4LS0 COILD ARPURE ACTUALLY

PASS THE FUROS FOR IMS

IN THE FORM OF A MONTHLY

CHECK OR SOME OTHER ARRANGEMENT? REALIZE THAT

PLUS SALARY RAISE TOGETHER REPRESENT CONSIDERABLE

INCREASE IN ORPURE INPIT TOL

*I AND WE NOT NOW

IN POSITION TO ASSESS RAPIRE WILLINGNESS DO SO.

in y

SEX 125

---

## Page 64

PAGE 3 LOPIPIT 1286 SECRET

NEVERTHELESS WE WOULU APPRECIATE HAS EXPLORING THIS

WIIH ORPURE IF POSSIBLE.

3. HQS SHOILD DISCUSS ABOVE QITH RODIGAST WHO

IN POSITION EXPAND ON THIS SUBJECT.

SECRET

BT

052413

---

## Page 65

portant

SECRET

14 September 1968

IA September 1967)

tractor to certain a colored y nonstone a happendant con

received an Operational Approval, dated

aspects of his ectivity are charged to Project

Pinancial

can be terminated by either party on 30-day notice.

3.

11 receives the following financial entitlementas

Compensation so computed as to givel

"tax-free" Ilgure of $800 per nonth (this figure affective

1 July 1967). NOTE: The actual breakdown of

finances as carried on NOPACT books Is $700 monthly salary

$100 non-accountable operational allowance, $70 tax supple-

ment withheld at EQs to discharge

V1'& MOLADY tAX

obligation.

These taxes are tenitted through the Covert

Tar Committee.

b- Reimbursenent for operational expenses and travel.

unless these are reimbursed by other sources in which case

NOrACT will offset such outside reimbursement againet WOrMCT -

financial obligations to

/1. Since security considera

tions generally preclude the detailed accounting for mis

collaneous travel expenses, per dien will be pald at the

rate of $20 per day during periods of authorized travel.

This per diem authorization was qualified by a personal

ruling of Chief of station,

(ICPIPIT dated 12 July 1965:

"If subject is absent from his home atation on

authorized travel for part of one day and returns to

his home station the night of the dane day lie. Le

no hotel expense to involved in the sense of overnight

acconnodations), then he shall be entitled to draw

117 of his authorized per dien of $20 por day (1-0- $10)-"

HOTE:

f1 has a revolving fund (advance) to assist

in meeting operational and travel expenses.

SCRET

---

## Page 66

14-00000

SECRET

11 will be compensated by WOFACT in an anount

mtually agreed upon for the relocation of hinself and hia.

fanily to a new residence if such relocation le considered

this Noc since it may be oparationally desirable for|

Vi's original bettor of agramant and was recalned to

to accept employment with a target organization based elsewhere.

3. ICPIPIT le authorized to approve purchase by /1

of certain itens of operational equipment which are to be non

accountable and which shall be charged against the operational

expenses category of the budget attached to the FY 1968 project

Its provisions are still in effect.

1 1s mare of all provisions of this Menorandun

of Oral Commitment with the exception of paragraph 5, which

describes an Internal HOPACT procedure, and certain aspecte of

paragraph 10, apocifically that WOPACT 18 paying INPORT taxes

in his behalf. lores He was promised tar-free compansation

in his original recruitment and we have devised the current

procedure to honor thia commitment while fulfilling the require

mnt that all WOrDY citizens pay taxes on funde received fron

IMPORT®

SIS EDE

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

Case Offloer

REVIEVED AND APPROVIDE

ADRIAN D. MASLOTT

Chies, ICPIPIT

---

## Page 67

CLASSIFY SO FILE 1O..

I-PET TO FILE NO--

FILE MIDLE RET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROT LI SIE.

CUSSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COP!!

REPRODUCT ION PROMIBITED

ACTION

0/1410 2

ADVANCE COPT

ORID COPY

SE CRE T 251459Z CITE LOPIPIT 1269

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

RYBAT DIDORIC MHPROBE

PIQUERIT

REF DIRECTOR 29537

1o WILL CABLE ITINERARY REQUESTED REF AFTER RODIGAST

"EETING WITH

25 AUGUST®

20 APPRECIATE THAT WASHINGTON PROBABLY MOST CONVENIENT

LOCATION FOR HQS MEETINGS WITH

VRODIGAST BUT BECAUSE

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS MUST BE PARAMOUNT REQUEST THAT

SESSIONS TAKE PLACE ELSEWHERE, PREFERABLY NEW YORK CITY.

HAVE SO INFORMED RODIGAST

3. SEXURITY RISKS ATTENDANT

MEETINGS WITH

HOFACT IN i.S. ARE OF PARTICULAR CONCERN. THUS RESUEST

THAT

CONTACIS WITH WOFACT OFFICERS BE HELD ONLY

WHEN ABSOLUTELY REQUIRED AND LIMITED TO ESSENTIAL PARTICI-

PANIS. ALSO BELIEVE IT WILL BE DIFFICULT AND PROBABLY

INSECURE HAVE

/I SET ASIDE BLOCK OF DAYS FOR

MEETINGS ONCE HE APRIVES IN U.S. ÁND THAI CONTACTS WITH

/I WILL HAVE TO BE AD HOC INSTEAD OF AD SERIATIM.

/I WILL DO HIS PEST ADMERE TO -ITINERARY, HOWEVER

965-5422 stanle

phane fa

25 a 67 8 39155 Ch

eperase

jECRET

1272

---

## Page 68

14-00000

tinies;

SECRET

PAGE 2 LCPIPIT 1269 SECRET

WE FEEL IT ONLY REALISTIC TO ASSUME THAT HIS MOVEMENIS AND

SCHEDULE WILL BE CONDITIONED BY DEVELOPMENTS FROM MOMENT

HE STEPS OFF PLANE.

4. FOR SECURITY AND HANDLING REASONS IT MOST IMPORTANT

FOR RODIGAST TO MEET AND ERIEF EACH WOFACTER IN ADVANCE

WOFACTERS MEETING WITH

VI. NO TRUE NAMES OF

WOFACTERS SHOULD BE USED AND SPECIAL CARE SHOULD BE

TAKEN PROTECT RODIGAST, WHOSE TRUE NAME AND ADDRESS NOT

KNOWN SY

So RODIGAST ETA NEW YORK 10 SEPTEMBER. HE WILL PHOVE

_WHOM HE HAS MET MORNING 11 SEPTEMBERRAT

EITHER IDEN A OR IDEN B IN ARRANGE FOR MEETINGS WITH

HQS OFFICERS.

_I WILL BE TOLD ARRIVE NEW YORK

15 SEPTEMBER THUS GIVING FEW DAYS LEAD TIME FOR ROCIGAST/

HOS PREPARATIONS. RELEST

UHO

• WILL WISH DISCUSS

RODIGAST PERSONAL AND DIOVERIAX

OPERATIOnAL MATTERS, ARRANGE

FOR INTRODUCTION TO CONGREVE.

6o NO FURTHER REGULAR MEETING WITH EITHER

VI OR

RODIGAST BEING SCHEDULED ALTHOUGH PPOVISIONS FOR EMERGENCY

"EETING BEING LAND: ON.

ANY INFO FOR EMERGENCY PASSAGE TO

in an

SECRET

14-0.3891

---

## Page 69

ties

PAGE 3 LOPIPIT 1269 SECRET

jECRET

EITHER MUST REACH LCPIPIT BY COB 31 AUGUST.

SECRET

siCkET

BT

We all ayroe. Fil

Tối

---

## Page 70

14-00000

DISPATCH I

- SECRET

PROCESSIMIGACTION

BARED FOR ENDELENA

chief, WOVIEN

ara.

NO BEDCHNIC REQUIRED

OIL Y QUALIFIED DESE

CAI SIDGE MIDENING

00SA

FROM

Chief, ICPIPIT/

КВт

WANG DIDORIC/Operational

Basic Project Documents

ACTION HEQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. ICPIPIT is revising the

Project files--which

have been rather haphazardly naintained over the past year or

so (much of this time the project was without a case officer).

In our attempts to locate basic project documents we have been

unable to find any copy of the provisions of the Operational

Approval applicable to L

V1. We do have a copy of the •

Provisional Approval granted 23 May 1966 forwarded with OFLW -

1591, 7 July 1966. Possibly the relevant document was destroyed

during the reduction of files attendant upon the ICPIPIT move,

or possibly it was inadvertantly not forwarded to ICPIPIT®

any rate we will appreciate being sent a copy•

2. We would also like to have a sterile version of the

FY 68

Project Renewal as well as all other basic documents

which

ought to be available to ICPIPIT.

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

.. ..

Distribution:

3 - C/HOVIEW-

1 - Cos,

CROSE REFERENCE TO

SPATCH SYMBOL AND MINEN

OEPT - 210

RASSFICATIN

CECRET

DATE

Aur 3n 9057

24 August 1967

---

## Page 71

14-00000

DISPATCH

Rief. WOVIE

GLASSAFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

INFO

FROM

Chief, ICPIPIIL

SUBJECT

O DIDORIC/Operational

ACTICH RETIKED - HEFENENCES

аВт

HO BIODING REQUIRED

DULY QUALIFIDO DESAL

ICAN JOGE MDENEO

LACRONIL

We are forwarding USC a copy of a letter sent

/1

by l

lawyer in which he makes a settlement offer

on behalf of his client.

V1 will probably accept this,

after a suitable waiting period, as it offers very telling and

effective ammunition for use in his continuing battle to counter

that he was a WOFACT agent. It is our reading

at this point that l

/1 has been quite successful in this

effort and that this settlement fron

will be the final

triumph in his campaign.

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

Attachment: USC

Letter

Distribution:

3 - C/WOVIEW W/att USO

2 - C/Eur Div w/o att -hur

1 - COSA

w/o att

Latt als

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPK

DUPATCH SYMBOL

AND

OEPA - 499

CLAMUFICATI

SECRET

Ci 406+ 441-979999119 transo to impurita datinito, le tratturazur lo duetto an

4 FI: 5SEP 1969. ]

201-346452

UG 30 70

DATE

24 August. 1967

WOS FILE MABER

---

## Page 72

ea-itotnor

Sa rea prs

.idp

tcondditae +544-505790 tsasitastettssr49gr9E@rt-nasoms dond.na cevaas

C3 COFY

.. .

S/CAAHI tO OEOA-449

201-306052

201-180164

---

## Page 73

Yous prie de eroire, Chars ladase et densieur, à

l'expression de ces deatincats

défoués.

'".

L

---

## Page 74

14-00000

- mimicia

+-----72

CS CuPY

261-386052

---

## Page 75

14-00000

DISPAIGN

1. SECRET SCRET

MARNED FOR ASSEMIES

Chief of Station,

- for ICPIPIT

DO MOERRE PERAPER

nia Chief of Station.

DARY QUALIFIED DESI

CAR POSE NOEINO

"Acting Chief TOVIEY"

INCROELE

SUBISCT

DIDORICA

INERGO Report

ACTION REQUIRED. DEFERERCES

Transmitted, under reparate cover. for your information only, Is a copy

of a IPTERGO Report dated August 10, 1967. Please note paragraph 4 and

bring to the attention of RODIGAST.

ISABELLE R, PRIAMI

Attachment: 1

INERGO Report u/s/c

Distribution:

Orig. Be 1 = COS: ICPIPIT w/att u/ele

1 - COS.L

Jo/att a/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO

201-306052

2 - RID files w/att

1.E'BCIUK #'o'att

1 - CINCG w/o/att

2 - CA/CF w/att

DISPATCH SYMBOL NO SIBER

OEPW - 117

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET E CRET

OFFICE

CFFIGER

CA 'CF

OFFICE SYMBOL

CATE

C/CA/CF

18 Acg 67

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/CA

LATE

8808

file in 201-306052

35 RUG 1957

DATE

18 Augurt 1967

800: 571.18

HOSTHATING

200-124-156/3

TYPET

1g767

COCTOINTING

OFFICERS MINE

RELEASING

EFFICERS SIGNATURE

FOR 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

15O. 8-88

DISPATCH

---

## Page 76

FBI dor

•6>

sufete -illegible.

---

## Page 77

170000

SECRET

a8 Audist

Dirarter

retral Seen of Inestlention

Attentions, Ire to do ranten

to periodie cultation ulti insuarter elste, the pagon of tile

Jin rat be nor instrue met to I

_an tay

Tublio ta tao Maited statele

No maila sino saloon uny innonn roguirents salah tho Agary wouls dera

020 Auget 19011

Distr thatleas

1-CI43

• CA, SEC

2: 45(202-305052)

IS COPY

SECRET

Date he

208-306052

---

## Page 78

14-00000

CUTILTILE SITISE IPSIUZAZION PROBLEM

Retaria: to iordon froa

on 10 July, I var again queried

by artis I--litation asout sy failure to register as a perranent

resident.

sig excuse bag allays been that I did in' iact co to

the lose difice, but to action was ever *ken because I rarely

rosained in sue courtry sore than a conta. forever, tais tale 18

caring trin and I fear taat I Lay have suca more serious trouble

In the sear auture.

It would sees to me that the best solution night be to becose

the official

or any other outfit

that sigat have se.

I would need a letter to thay effect and

rould require a notional salary of about $5,000 per year, I believe,

but even this aight raise questions fros the British Inland

Revenue®

Sone advice on this probles rould be appreciatedo

* Must be at least t 1000 yearly.

al ai fle

27072269

15/8167

---

## Page 79

14-00000

FBI (x-nef)

10 Oug6?

FBI dIR

8 a

.'67( wash)

Re:I

Bufile: (15) 105-93072

"! tas.

.

EFa"Ri iu

-fi.

Hne's:

---

## Page 80

14-00000

•

12 NYT. 16 JILY 67

iHe leit Cuba lase year.

home, the nosierter said:

Arathta Asserican liegro na-:

'ACCUSES CUBANS ra's rhard Gibson, in a cool. Efirate e roice

"Revolutionaries must play it

and

the

Mr. Wiliams as

C.LA. Tie must learn to subeerti

Vicious Smear' of China in Maris

'Forged' Letter Chaiged ist

laborar

the ail-

him ai his our cryense utile

Achen using his facilities

(PAN) in the ffled our case of place iteratience

sixteen

persoes,

who.

On Sturday, Workers Worid!

raid to be serabers of the

a reekly here with a Troistrist!

Robert F. Williams, an Arer-.

mose-ech

indency, announced that it had

sean Negro who is now a black on cred is Poses last morto delines a sadener or al:

on changes ei having piosed to

mutter

molorale dezo civil leges murder pio:

here as at

king, has charged that the Cu-

rinhes laadets

ban

regime of Premier

Fidel

The Crusader that Bir. W7-

"Ітате-га.

i$

not my policy

Castro

has counterfeited a liams

т.от

contenced

#525

mailed RAt's to

nessictter he gutsout and need

for? Havara last month, has a Lade

kill

condescendingi

Toms," the

statement!

the bogus periodical for a si-.

headline,

"China

Berat's

The, said

Ciban Perpistion," and has hir. ton- advocaling pomtess as

cious smear attack on Com-:

Wil nog spring that le was"de

munist China.

In

by

2he

sassinations. We are codicated

soft bies

the May issue of the subtle

fistory"

and freedoen-fighters

stressing

Chinese arred self-defense. Our objec

newsletter.

The Crusader, which Communist leaders. It goes on

has arrived here, Mr.

Mies to Tay it race stages as and decent place to lice a just

asserted that the

sion

"forged" fyr-.

"o'd and sick and can no'

*carries a meicted post-

marie that is availahle moly fn?

mic. mad underlang who. al.

Cuban Gusernment hulk mail though acting in his eazac, have:

ing." He charged that the ners- abandored the peopie's revolu

feller was put out by "the Ci-dion."

ban G-2"

which he

said 5535'

X'r. Williants' current Peking

heavily innitrated by the Urit-nerslee: asserted that "Afro-

ed States Central intelligence. Americons

Ter. Williams left his home at inose

sorld

refuse

to

' in Vittram. But it added

"Tho

are

trapped,

n Monroe, N. C. in 1951 aod into i:" cod'd "work among the

ment to Cuha, mihere he adio, troses to educale ebeta to

the

ated a "frecdom struggle" for,true farts of life."

201

---

## Page 81

14-00000

DISPATCH

tall+3340151168

SECRET

aFa

ZILECT

Chief, BOvIra

Chief, Eul: Chief, LPIPIT

Chict of Stitiou,

DILORIC GOSLE 1

GAELO GOR SOLYON

DO SOrTISE REQUIRED

CRAY CHALLED L

CAI JUSGE IDERIG

I JACUAR LEPALL

ACTICH REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Refs:

ОБРА 150,

S May 1907

OBLA 4737, 10 Any 1907

1.

"e now have J'CUB's corneuts on the proposca

to allow.

to capard his access ur "represti

Ing" sorothing - even if only i

Ibe

lotter fron JiGUeR 15 atti ched.

He would ouserve that diCt's cortunts ile duviously

in & constructive voin.

Sinilialy, doGlili sceus to tile

a protective, l

in consideritions

affecting the

projecto be noturully bolcere this icel-

Ing on their jurt, sincc

contiaues to

ind we thin: that aGLiP's

in substance.

Their tinel cor.cat ilso

corments arc sound,

rolls, to scy the leest

to see yet

probrbly be

iuplications if i IOL.DYL

In IChul, for tiat nitter, iut :

here *s a result.)

Te live nos hid in opportunity to talk this ovor tith

CILIBERTI, LIGINGSTIE And RODIGIST,

alloon will not ve re-floatcò. "u iniu to

baru is done. If JGuck should conc Into L

and ass us ibout it, we sill icinoritdge

that he wrote it to try vut on : licited nunes of frienis ind

aimed at his

prclininary to (he hopco) 1.00

GILLIANS' arrival in

ve sic non serely Icplying tù

JAGUAR that vc are griteful for their cogent coments,

thore is a siguificant

change in the l

Topcrational sitution such if to icculic

in which case te sill gula suts

their concurience.

Attachnent: k/w

Distribution:

COOSS REFERENCE 10X-C/FOVI-.,

/STEERAGE SINGOL AXO MUNER

-C/LLk, v/att

2-C/LCFIPIT, Att.

OFT: -17, 550

ic.

CLASSFICRTICE

SECBET

Artiur T. JU:VICK

BITE

1 June 1967

MES FRE CUISER

* 00-1: 4-180

2531

---

## Page 82

1A-000

==

S20k27

:

---

## Page 83

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATHET

SECET

PROCESSING ACHION

MARKED FOR INDEXIO:

DO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALITIED DES

ICAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Fart.

FRENg

Chief

WEET LIDOPIU/ pertlonal

11 and ANSQUAs/L'& Relationship

MENON MODRED , REFERENCES

The relatlonship hetween

V1 and ANSQUAW/l Is a particularly

important one fron both tra ; roduction and security points of vlaw. ANSCUAll

has been a prolific and rollable reporter, erpocially ou ltens dealing with the

and 18 vill be highly destraule for her to

continue to serve in this capacity in the forseeable future. It is recognized

that AkSCAll is not al

Jand that her personal williness to

J1 is kanod ipon a comple and inter

related serles of masons, hoth personal and ideolorical. L

11 holjed her

out of a ticht situation in

and has bordended her since her arrival in

For the last several sontha she has teon liviny at lis house. I

has a very agroule personality and is a renuinely lineable person. At the save

tina, although she is not an ideolorical rer50is

lesolovical cosition and she has never questioned his explanation - that her

morting la for the

_ Lastly, no cannot and have not, ovarlooked tie

Iikellhood of a physical attraction between the tro, In the last analyaia it is

Impossible for us to state exactly what notivates her to act as a

2o It in quito possible for tha relationship betveen

V1 and AMSQUAI/1

to change at any tie.

Should their relationship take a tur

night possibly save adverse security implications forl

has been discussed at length with

V1 and be azrees that great care must

be taken, ie is careful to

where it would he

I Thus far this has beerrelatively

nasy, indeed at tim l

sassions of the

tho absence of any

Jeered to confire in A'SCUAw/l"s cind that l

on the scare.

At this point no actual probler exists, but both

ICPIPIT andL

are alert to the possibility that one could arise,

AARON Co LAGINESTRA

Distributions

3 - C/VOVI

2 = C/WONUSE

2 - COSA

2 - C/Ear Div

COHE REFERENCE TO

DESPATCH STAR, AND WE

OFPA « 181

LAISIFICATIO

201-906052

CATE

1967

:F Hax 1867

CSTay fled a01-29y 316

---

## Page 84

1d-0n0d

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRAT

TU

C/HOVIEN

C/SOHUSE, COSA

C/Eur Div

Chief, CPIPIT

SUBJEC

DTDORIC/Operational

71's Heeting with RNSLIVER

ACTION REQUIRED • REFEREBCES

18577

FROCESSING ACTION

JOLARKED FOR INDEXINE

NO MDEXING REGUIRED

ONLY PUALIFIED DESA

CAS NOGE NDEXA

#SCHOE R.00

Transnitted herewith is a brief nen for the record summariaing a conver

sation between the underaigned and INSLIVER in which the latter recounted his

impressions of a natiog with

Vlo Transitted USC la a brief note from

V1 to PODIGAST Covering the eveats of the same evenior.

Pof. CILTSERTI

Attachmentes H/U & USC

As stated memo H/W

Brief aote USC

Dietribution:

3 - C/OVIEN w/atts H/W & USC

2 - C/HOHUSE w/atta H/M & USC

2 = COS/L

Jw/atta H/W & USC

2 - C/Eur Dio No atts

CROSS REFERENCE TO

is car mo 1l200-134456/3

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUNNER

DEPA = 266

ZASSIFICATIO

SECRET

Elle in 301-306052

MAY 1 1 1957

10 May 196

HOS FILE BLABE

* =#

---

## Page 85

SECRET

PICHORANDUM FOR THE. RECORD

SUBJECT! CILIBERTI Conversation with INSLIVER 26 April Concerning Nie

Neeting wich

do on 25 April BAStAR told me that Kiriver was inL

and was

planning to meet withi

BASTEAR accordingly suggested that

RISHIVER ba debriefed by the underaimed the following norible Accordiagly

I met with MiShlVER for about one bour, fron which neeting the fallowin

highlights seen worth recording:

I told INStIVER that we (VOFACT) had been Interestod la

J1 at the time that he was

concerning

his dispute with the l

Ibut that ve

• had lost tract of his of late.

How that we are In

ton, RISLIVER was told that me and Headquarters vould be Interested

In any Infornation on

Is which could be reported as a result

... Of such meetlage as RiShIVIR had had with bit.

B. RISLIVER sold that he had told

that he would Ilke

to meet Ibrabín to zain some understanding o* what was poing on la

the

particularly as it related to the Sino

Soviet split.

said that he thought that INSLIVER would do euch

better by talking to

sald was one of the

fas paople around from thosl

could learn anything

C. MUSLIVER met

11's houne. RNSLIVER did

not have a complete roster of those who vere there to participate

In what INSLIVER described as a "political bull sessioo".

He

pemembered only (la addition to himsolf and

V1J of Mattben

Mkoana and a girl fron Mexico City naned Sucesos; who he said new.

a great deal about guerrilla pointion in Venezuela and whose

address he said vas Calsada, Jacuboya 103, Mexico 18.

RISLIVER

said that Noana said practically nothing throughout the evering,

apparently because be found INSLIVER's presence odd and umerwing.

Do

INSLIVER was as Impressed with

11 as

had

pradiated he would be. He described

1l as remarkably no

edgeable concerningl

Nesters Europe and Africa. He said that!

his reoent trio to

vialted

and

V1 had described

had centloned that he had

Intended to visit

That he knew Jacques Crippa, and that ha

in connection with the

and a possible

vialt by robert williams.

SECRET

---

## Page 86

CUNTINTILG SZITISH IPMISZATION TROBLE

Returniri to jordon fros

on 10 July, I was again queried

by aritish I--saration about sy fallure to register as a percanent

residento ig excuse nas alrays been toat I did in fact co to

the lose difice, but no action was ever taken because I rarely

country sore than a nonto.

Forever, tois tale 18

scarinE tuin and I fear toat I bay have nuch more serioua trouble

In the near Iuture.

It would sees to ne that the best solution night be to becose

the official

Jor any other outfit

that nigot have s0.

I tould need & letter to thag ellect and

would reguire a notional salary of about $5,000 per year, I believe,

but even this night raise questions froa the British Inland

sone advice on this probles would be appreciatedo

* Must be at least t 1000 yearly.

f/ file

pit 072269

15/8/67

---

## Page 87

SECRET

• INSLIVER MES particularly Impressed by /1°s lIbra

booke and pamphlets. KISLIVER turned over to the unde

and a copy of l

These vere received with

foigned laterast, although of course we had earller received the sam

Items fros RODIGAST (already forwarded to Headguarters)

JASLIVER did not recall meting Mrs.

Inow hor many children_

Yadi described 12, ard 11s hoe

as attractively middle class.

He was aure of the faet that l

ad gone to kenyon College and prised

J1'e writine skille

V1 showed him a sumber of artleles he rad uritten le

PNSLIVER said completely followed the l

was surprised that sone of these articles had been printed in the Unite

states in spite of théir political orientation.

PoTo CILIBERTI

---

## Page 88

;..ett to DEPA-00248

VISIT

Conversation with

25/4/67

Tadeusz lorio phoned my home to tell de that akKXXl

is sperding a sabbatical jear in lurich fros ilt, warted to see se.

Later that evering, L

arrive Stella Joyce

of Annesty Interrational and Kattrew irona also arrived unexpectedlye

It turned out snat

and Jusce had often talked over kkarkaran the

phose, but hed never set.

told ne that he had recently vicited Last frica.

es dalaa, lie had met divid sibero and imes G. Lurubin ci the PAC

(Pan Africanist Congress).

he sid his distinct is ression was

Int was on a strons sro-turnese course.

said he had written

to bana dano-o's old accress in bonion in an effort to contact him

but had learned later that ano=o has now it karta Kirkland douse,

University

he sald he dooked lorard to talking witz valoo

when he wint brielly to the ust in ley.

COPY

150-1954-15415e

---

## Page 89

"-marua...

DISPATCH

CLASSE CATES

SECPEE

ROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR ICEUNG

TO

C/OVICH

C/HOUSE, COSI

FROM

Chie:, ICPIPIT ROl

SAVE LIDORIC/Sperational

CROREY/L

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCE

C/Eur Div

BO MOSITIG REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DES

CAR JOGE INDEXHO

As iQS is aware, /1 has been pursuing a legal action against

FRact 190404

]He has now received a letter fron his lawjer which seens to indicate

thatl

Jis willing to nake some sort of settlement altrough he can only pay

in [

I1, of course, is villing to accept a settlerent

provided it includes sone sort of apology from

hised with this apology

1/1 could then dispose of any lingering doubts regarding his political

reliability caused by

accusations and woulú also have the ego gratification

of forcingl

to eat his own words.

ACL

AARGE CO LAGINESTRA

Attachnent: USC

As stated above USC

Distribution:

3 - C/HOVIEN W/atts USC

2 - C/HONUSE 1/0 atts

- COS

_w/o atts

2 - C/Eur Div w/o atts

15

CROSS REFERENCE TO

buted 12NX1367 -

MICROFILMED

MAY 15 1501

DOE, MICRO, SER.

Seri

DESPATON SYMBOL AND JUDEN

O5PA - 245

QLASSIFICATON

SECRET

MAY &

1967

281-306652

DETE

2 Bay 1967

NEST FILE MIEN

---

## Page 90

301-2616e

1-00001

1185. S1

-adens se era, e da case ibos e pes a por minay, ia

....

---

## Page 91

HANE

09

EARNINGS

NORMAL

OTHER

74600

18&00

.. SECRET

(OMEN FILLED IN

SATIAENI GI LARIVINGS GNE DEDUCTINiS

EMPLOYEE NO.

PAY PERIOS DATE

802799

04/01 00/30

ROLL

20

DESCRIPTION

- COST CENTEN

1260062

REG SAL

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

STA

000

the cared no

CD

30

96

DEDUCTIONS

NORMAL

OTHER

74600

18400

4600

DESCRIPTION

CPA EX CR

FED TAX F

REMARKA:

Increase Hornal Salary Iron $700 to $746 effective 1 December 1966.

EMPLOYEE NUMDER.

802799

FoR 131& Previous editions obsolete

RATE

OFT-HT ANT IT AHOLNT

CA/0O0

SECRET

NORMAL

4600.

OTHER

610-51

NET PAY

NORMAL

OTHER

REMARKS:

PAID AT MOS

DO 1915A

SECRET

---

## Page 92

td-innus

•=: luà iintiirà daloo si.1i.à

Ciameie ?

•R branai dccdis is cod c?

sináotin'.

-...

oiobli itia dit tmncanns bicia.

20 2002 к

•O SUiDAY ::770?

0423051

Earring Post. in

euiis:

irrara dbáidies

is à Éeaiatos

Sa5,2.:0:

tain she

SHoNE iis ioinad

icporicts

...:

Fiinistiird

LiciA:

•:=0J7* 208 355-0:20

C=siito nnd tre lodlonion Gssidió

HELL EDIT QUARTERLY

RAYS.EY ias

5i0n isooriin

Oiscer

iitrei

.sar 3:s

Graiz

O=2a:

3-.0n

iis Guinteriy d'usoniar Duairadi

PROA MOIN NTO TY

S'ACi.

rcá drim

a'ureanino

.. 93c f

.* .

o 2ue:

AzeRaio sa

iIess ana

2/20246

à mandizne

siora

4490-229

iri from "Quesa'

is colour meeky

CAuoediS ioioa) ai

8d ta---.a

2675350

hees.

7723.

Sechziend

=isa?s°

."e*iv.

Ap..

-n..

pantea

37/212C1

=00-005055

ird

0.55.53

baie° 28057.08

8 =.n

AGEESY

ire di

Es Assanior

G=.:

jdi @..e

..:"==-

......

suns torod

SAD 1 6000 1118

A-STER

Scôrs, ramo tom tas is

=siua

=rcáuinsi

•=. 27 in tr8

-Cvis ".

330m3. 107.

"Al. Cúorà sãue an

resd's

saiarai bíéi

Crira.

35-1ra-

i"o.•

G.

Soc.ci

Ces

3uaacAa:

Crapzane, Conouiani :s

D.auctass

com-

mincez.

M:CTURZ0 6.

»"!.

soord.

A.es

CaaAE.

Paran 52 ee0an t5 Basxs

A NarS

misroa"

Express ©3amell

ge3s ÷20r3.5002

07227

iin i

Easn

3-2.

CAND3R

intiinosiroai

dat'gaiDoão ciiaa

cabiásáiiailà io ioia ca

Chofsis Posi's roportias

vinesr

tont"om hons

rrstiiiar: Cria

SPiO'S GROUP PRESS 055:023

XUDT: 00A838 23 001x 1

l'scg-

Bitin?

cir'i

Lonca.

otdures.

Saisié Coozar ino

PITER MUNUERY, ira Tin dis

"iptaraniadild

Suvic

diria.ae

moiin;

Airiae

-=ioti-ds

-dios

Srr:.e

dadtermasin

iadeing tie

+aathe.

….*"t"

a.naa

• noaa.

1og=l

11 14651,

115108

Feadon edison

zow grocp t

CRANE MELARO Ep'EiciCa0: a-

Scnerio mimnáãã, rnó Jicnappccnião

wiongs

woiwcia?

ii tns fiilidorey

,anaco de diara d

tist:os

Bigdn bii? iia

ccmar.

•..à.is.

-4-2-27

iro Ein's

--urision

io Furdor sita

iiiraim bliináso

sa.its

NECO PRISE MOVE

20CHARO 0i3501

dawr.

Eapias.

sp.b.ü.a

ino Picas

deidrraidooo

•aia do- Aira.

"ix.s

deis tori Miraramor

*** :n*ч.0.

i.r-a

amurher L'S moninip, icorerdon.

ILIFTE TO incinREde

1OG% HENNER-mo-ocrà

•ctatotnar:

riuaadei

*ios

saras

'udara:

Reicirahundi ariad dio Curzcläradren

isix.

it'a. t

"rer-anyà)

M2N0N.S05641

aa2e d0 lhocs din iroritrg.

REPOATEP. FOR P3

SECHAãE GLaST Eraiy cnd copazo

dario!'

Tias ?

tna5äel9, tnms

iiunáos ano Anciiica to.

jimiaaia=oaosia

=arap-io

7---

---92009306+:

X3.3

-s--,"-

521..-0.

S:229702?

Naw encias include:

ist 3xe)

ENMReRON% IEA

%. sei

ZHALY

1190722

s"öei

FaFp.JaT.

MlOy 8222

woaan

3Р58 C08:2413

BOVER COUPATT

MIS" 90T97 CiS DEIUFAOTRERS

at CiCtd

::E9

Mtont SuS NESS 3PE.23: "y

IOME BR3WXG AIS N:SE

"diiN'o

ISd? FUNE EEaiE

CO SIENER COLN SASALSATIONS

UACe! COASUREL

Jee Puzeu SJa

7

201-306052

- D ANCIS

---

## Page 93

14-00000

DISPATCH

ода

CLASSIFICATICR

SECRET

C/Eur Div

FRENE

Chief, LCPIPIT

EDTDORIC/Operational

V1's Taxes

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCE!

FROCESSINGACTION

MARIES FOR MOLINE

NO MDERING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAR JOGE INDEXIS

IN CROFILM

V1 told RODIGAST at their most recent neeting that he did not

file an overt tax form for 1966 because his gross overt incose for 1966

This will not be true for the 1967 tax year and he will

Spring of 1968.

The operative sentence in the 1966 Tax

Guide For US Citizens Abroad, US Treasury Dept IP3 Pub No 54 states--"Every

citizea of the United States, regardless of where he resides who is under 6!

For the record the undersiened who is as yet unfamiliar with al

ministrative details, Hould appreciate HQS confirmation of the above

ACK

AARON C. LAGINESTRA

Distribution:

3 - C/HOVIEW

2 • COS.

2 - C/Eur Div

CROSS HEFERENCE TO

CS COPY

DESPATCH SMOL AND BURGER

OEPA - 228

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-306052

APR 25 1967

BATE

22 April 1967

PES PLE RUMBER

---

## Page 94

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

B-OCE TO FILE HO--

PILE BIOD NET. TO BRACE DO

DEstRor D sie.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE E

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

20

REPROC

PROHIDITED

ADYANCE COPY

BRID COPY

SECRET 1918342 CITE LOPIPIT BOÍ

DIRECTOR INFO

DIDORICL

REF: DIRECTOP. 90256

1a AGREED PARA 3 REF THAI RAISE NOT EE PASSED

THRU ERPURE. ALSO AGREE JULY EFFECTIVE DATE.

REQUEST HQS TAKE STEPS MAVE RAISE ADDED TO

SALARY DEPOSITS MADE BY HGS TOL

JACCOUNT.

2. WILL COMMENT ON PARA 4 REF WHER PROMISED

DISPAICH RECEIVED.

SE CRET

BT

SECRET

13kat 40:26

Harrison =

---

## Page 95

......

DISPATCH

TA

C/MOVIEN

DuFa

COsA

C/Eur Div, C/NOVUSE

CLASSIFICUTIORE

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

BARNED FOR ERDEXINS

NO ADORNIG REQUIRED

ONLY QUALITIED DESH

CAIL SUDGE INDEXING

TECHOFTL

LEG IIDORIC/SOE:ationa

Britisa Immigration Status

CHOA REQUIREO - REFERENCE!

The L'SC netoranda sets forth a probles nich

V1 recently

encountered at London Airport and row it was solved with the assistance of

and JAGUAR.

As batters row stand, British Immigration will take no action against

Z1 Without checking with JACUP.

ACL

AARON CO LAGDESTRA

Attachient: USC

is stated above para 1 USC

Distritution:

3 - CROVIEY H/atE USC

2 - C/ONUSE w/att USC

2 - COS/

J4/0 att

2 - C/Eur Dir w/o att

15/61t-

CROSS REVERENCE T3

S/C ATT'D BY RI/AN

Dated 1 MAY 1967

CS COPY

DISPITCH STANCE AND NUMBER

OEPA - 211

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

000000 r90 11 tea 1°

APR. 18 1957

0301-5-005-2

17 April 1967

1098 FRE PRE

---

## Page 96

".?:

molestini canno

it seas

a::g0r.

so du Reds property area cecio

aro all

unit, aty isn't

taey caich in 18

Lamase selicie.

20:5

the rice vitice ches so dis; shen inãs saguin min do farpeto,

ara that is inlikely,

tre my the britis an ides a de hill

loos 1az0 tings further.

"ell his shat sarizz a Srira.

wife maises his tamune to rest out kicking actirities is cong

as his nose is cleas.

In faet, It 1s all fixed with the dese "price.

They wil?

not take ary action against his ithout checing with dacual,

and they, of course, will caech hith us. l sionid zor be

encouraged to be lippazi or sassy sith me Imization people,.

but he doesn't need to paro, either. Fe shouli jehave in

a reasonably straigatiorari ars satural way - so he should not

be encouraged to think se have "fixed" tings for his.

I also discussed acain niza Jiù te cuestion of having him

taken off te vaicalist.

Taey are milling to so so, it se

want,

but treis in mi sill is at it is barter for him

to be vatehl'.-aù

PIErE coRia prEsidiy se ta secter

credential or tä,

07 |

retro ai stir soro, tria in get mie visiness

he silas:

¿o iT Bail (iccho-iy, ad aid an= be disisragec

ais citration dilaz.

aard, the sires. ramasser

=3ten:

¿ca, ratired, i veir lan learia, b1= :cichlisted.

Se i sabiná jon ins any Ineblers, or i& there are aly

(Cto, yes:

conse-sasis that he should not appy for

permare: residesce it. ::.

Easy sin

point i-i -37i- 6100.

¿Pare to give sa

he dres. '" jara so volurer that itor among so be d-cudn':.

.-.FROY: JIEVICE

....:a

---

## Page 97

08rf - 211

15 855 67

TARGET

FRIZISE DIANION PREI

Returning to the Do, 6s 35/3/67, 1 Is TaTed dy British Isnigration a: Joados d1sp0rt that

§ was socilay 5030 tie da taltain thas outsido lie countsy. The Ingration 0s8scor lasjested

E7 gassport Closely, erating the muter of trips 1 lad nado slaco galbias lant 2e5sy0z6, 191eb

And been issued by tso JoS. Mbassy 19 Londos, o1 1 Decesser 1965, Bonever, no 0x3?0209102 tas

asiod los concernisg the travelo I expiainod that 1 had intended to sosettle 1a Seltzerland os

France, and ms spendlag so meh tire 11 Brital only becauso my wife, who was British, had bees

holplay to take care of bor olderly parents in locdos. I was told severtheless that I should

go to the Here Office and apply for temporary rouldesce in Britaia.

Before dolng so, I vould toed to sasost

1) whether I should in fact do sos

2) hor shoald I deseribe my work, le my, and sourco of inco=o.

do prosest, upos isresilgation, the Eritist mould lease the I have so tisible seans of incone,

except for pertags for ry leports sad

but neverthe: +5s

I Inagine they would icad sone sort

of benk os other finnial statenents, mich dould probably be encined by Brit- s2r autborities

for possiblo tantion, ten 1ª I sey 1 bre no espirgent of any concyrance and -intain tyse

on Incone fron Irvestoss mie In Sritzerlard and elsecare, I nigat have to verify tunt statesent

ô puy nose sort ol Brisist tatia fansidering the positions a ay brothers inian, I doube 1e

osther could get my with ciminine to taily or partially support sy ily, sin my brother la

¡#to 15 a Chartered docotstant, has beea deducting Ey collara "i suel Pees

ITo: Ils FIos Sy LeArs of aa eincational trust sund, although he so longer pays aruthine torrd.

REil prove s0Te eubersone asd dangerous than necestaty, ls the prosent circustanle

In any casa, l snod ndvice on this ratter tzantly, as l rumpoct I say soon ha:. -":sle 190n to

Hose Difice 11 I do not so so thes volcatarily. bo COPY

Se04t100CPA-I1

801-3060507:

---

## Page 98

...

...

---

## Page 99

---=

to cand

MARNED FOR MOCKING

Chief of Station

FOr LCPIPIT

DeFO

Chief of Station,

FACILE

Chief, WOVIEW

SURE POTDORIC

Operational

L Mentioned in Senate Bearinga

ACTION RÉQUIRED - REFERENCES

See paragraph i.

ONLY QUALFIED OLSE

EAN ADLE BIDDING

1, Transmitted under separate cover is an excerpt from a recent

Senate debriefing of a PBRUMEN defector, in whichl

name was mentioned.

2. We do not believe that the testimony is particularly awbrard for

In, and while we had an opportunity to have this portion of the

testimony stricken from the record, we elected not to do anything a bout

it since it would have involved revealing VOFACT interest in

3. FYI, In order to avoid any concern on the part of QRPURE should

this portion of the testimony ever hit the press, KAMMERMAYER

mentioned the reference to l

/1 in low key to ORPURE at a recent

meeting. ORPURE exhibited no concern.

* Please have RODIGAST brief|

I concerning the testimony

at an early opportunity.

JULIA R. CONGREVE

Attachment:

As stated above (u/s /e)

Distribution:

riginal & 2 - LOPIPIT w/at

w/o atto

15/1t€

CROSS REFERENCE

ES° COPY

DISPATCH SYROL ANO NUMER

OEPW -16

CASSIFICATIOF

85. 77:15 1=1

* +3

SECRET

Distributien:

1. RI/ Att.

1 ~ E/BC/UK #/o att

1 - CI/IC w/att.

1 * WH/COG/CA/EW

1 - CCS/NC

OFFICE

CA/CF

C1/IC

AN E

DS

270.

ASSTRAC!

OFFICE SYMES

C/CA

Rom 53

1-03

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

PATE

1/4/67

10 30 MH 009

Dar

(40)

901-506052

13 APR 2981

MOS FILE NUMBER

201-306052

1"7767

COORDINATING

OFFICERS NAME

RELEASING

•Orc

DISPATCH

---

## Page 100

14-00009

its sue

ip

....

-.

att to C'EPH-46

09

ino sourine. Lo sun tonor is choy die do faci diganica

this conducerce an bondon, i volving -.

La, Saurine. Involving the llosth Viccanese. You

land nocking Lurches?

ia. carine. Joa, did tou have any dito aizo anoud the

PiSsCiCe in Joudo: of any Osier Unitee Esacco citizens sho nad

eccengued do citain a visa to craval éo Cusa.

Ec. Volta. 1o, sin. loi that & soleker.

2a:, Sauziane, Didn't you have sonoching to do wich au

individnal to varica to go io Cubo, to incitica Castro?

te. volta. yes.

1s. Sourine. Icl? us aione this.

Ar. Volça. There vas a

a colored nan.

fix, Sottire. A Negro?

1s:. Volta. Yes, a legro. And he used to be, I think,

here in the states. I think in

Rew "ori. I don't now if this was in lev York.. And he visited

the tabassy, trying to get a visa.

Hi. Sourvine. The Cuban Sauassy in London?

Mr. Volta. Yes, the Cukan Enbassy in Londor.

Ar. Soltine. To get a visa to go to Cul:a?

Ar. Volta, Yes. And then we sent this request to Cuba,

SECRET

206- 366052

....

- Aren

---

## Page 101

1s-i:d.

tws.

SO

lui se never hid a 10alde he vasied to navo in incocvich tith

• Plazos terarine.

Ma: 116 chia

20, dis you Laud! la you

¿c. Voltio de for es ilaco, la vas editaro a Jollciin,

acuarent braictis, in

- ioi in Latis!

de valeno linecly candoll oa macily. Dic I kOw

ho rac oficing a neus inllecin

Is. Suruinc. Mai kind o: 2 nes bellosin?

it'. Folla. Mell, a sheck of pape: wich neus aloui

diftores i aspecto.

hi, Souvinco well, do you know tnether this vas really a

novs enteipzico, di thechcr it was a propagunda catesprise?

Il:. Volta. I thin: it tas a

because

his seas ras in the head.

. Ic. Souvine. that was chat nave?

Pi. Valia. I tricd to rarenber his name.

Didn't you tell our wan in Miami that it

Fe. Volta. Right, that one, yes, sir-

Ne. Sourvine. Now, do you lave any deiails about the

alleged contract with Playboy ligazine for an incerview with

Fidel Castro?

---

## Page 102

14-00000

1-2r0589

..""

13H080

Auttr

:

SETC.T

:rone ":.

ocaee totü lhaGryed t0aaa

"ae tride

iw.i0.

WO2ONIÜ"Ti "TITI'IGid

To tiiiie

-po Piiedo E3TiCioidaü

100in.-0I1n :

---

## Page 103

INDERE

D no

CLASSIEr tO FIL NO..

#-HEF TO

FILE HIDI

BET. TO ONANCH D

DESTROY 0-1

¿SIFIED KESSAGE S

PotAL COPIts

3

SECRET

most stali cool. 01808

FEARLET I0H PROMITED

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

LAN FT

(8 8 an

DE RID COPY

FILE VR, CAN, WES, CAS, CL

D.

SECRET 0213182

PAL P INFO DIR CITEL

DID OR IC OR FREY

J 2425

1.

_RAW REPORIS RECEIVED | MARCH• APPRECIATE

PROMPT FORWARDING.

2• SINCE WILL BE CONTINUING REVIEW OF CASE WITH

JAGUAR IN NEXT FEW DAYS THEY

OUR CONTINUED

JOF HIM 14

Jo WOULD APPRECIATE CABLE

SUMMARY LATEST MEETING WITHI

AND PLANS FOR IMMEDIATE

FUTURE®

SECRET.

CFN 2425

BT

RAW 1 JAGUAR

2kat: :65923

---

## Page 104

SEGRET

1 : FE3 1966

508

Pause

Director

Pedernl Dureen Of Investigntion

Attantians Mo Be do Pepich

Deputy Director for Meas

Lo Into morada requente your Agency°s comato, on a petarity basta,

relatir to taproving the operational cupabilitica of tulAi, a nource of tato

Agency kana to you, shone reporting enl

we aro fording en a continuins basts.

8o Dampite our hopso and hse escorte, subAl son unble to obtate an

invitation to the l

recently hald Inl

It to our belied that SUGAR®s

reyutation of being

me reponniblo for bla enalusion. in

drecoins tide prosten with important

Karopo rocentig, the lattor puzzented fibe hia abilly to socure Bocoes ts

tura metings unla do coneldorebly enhenced 15 he ovuld obtain a "Ernut route"

In seporting

into mapsts dich strikes un as valli EXAl speculatod on the pooathsiste

that he elent sotant to beodna tha

Ittle but unles saras, aron ihat ba dous knot, to be cosiotent is 1te outloats

11 ta his ortentale politient artantation.

3s ta the exertion, ve vould vy nach asroatate roosiving any

antomantion you possass on

No sould saloons partienterty,

c& this

Junteh alett be penned on to sUDAR vithout copranteeto encurity

consterutions.

SECRET

---

## Page 105

..=.

SECRET

•3"

He wuld be not interosted la roadving

both jour oments a this canal mont of orinion la the thitod Statas,

](26 rebrary 1966)

Distributions

Orff. # 1 - Addrease

1

• CI/IC

KID (200-124-156/3)

• CA/ SEC

SECRET

---

## Page 106

SECRET

dy 105 1366

SETECT

Fald Irvestigntion ot

_Clearance. (301-306052)

I, Amount to our curanation of 1l Pebruary In jour offico, this

moranda requeste that the unal field backeromi invastiention not be

undertatan in the elenrenos process instituted for I

Chat ouch te he thie on ot for to beal on trong one

SECRET

---

## Page 107

14-00000

=..

other IURARI operations, vitting participation in the L

other|

Jor the pegeing of such regairemente as lould L

status of KUBARK I

c/ca/cr

CI/IC

SECRET

---

## Page 108

14-00000

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

Seiding suppurt divisionicefice of jecurity

SUBJECT:

(True

PSEUDONYM, ANA OR ALIASES

Irederick F. Donate (P)

PHOVISIONAL DPERATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON MITM U.S. OFFICIALS

8. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

International

3- FULL DETAILS OF USE

DATE

10 February 1966

FROM:

4 D 30

PROJEÇT

11T67

CI/DA FILE NO.

*: 201 COLE NO.

30 fILE A0.

2010306052

8. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY

APPROVAL

COVERT

#AME

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO fiold investigation)

d- INVESTIGATION AND COVER

YES "

#0

A. U.S. GOVERAMERT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

See & below

#. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION!

C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S, GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN M1MI

• IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CI

&. INDICATE ANY LIUITATIONS ON COVERAGE IM THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT, NO FBI - ALI LATO FROES EbeM...

has bem received sal neede

P. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTINE PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

IF NO INYESTIGATIDN OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLATE FULLY

Possible loss ren asstenant to

15k000400

#PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT, IN 12Y COPIES ATTACHED

-PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (18 COPY ATTACHED

TRO RECORD

I DILL FORBARD

NO RECORD

LX MILL FORBARO

STATUS

PRO II WILL DE FORWARDED

GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO: 169669

B. RI TRACES

HON- DEROCATORY

7. DIVISION TRACES

NON-DEROGATORY

B. FIELD

TRACES

•ILL FORWARD

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

DEROGATORY ATTACHED

I DEROGATORY ATTACHED

HO RECORD

nO DEROGATORY INFO.

LIST SOURCES CHECKE

HOT INITIATED (EsplanalEOR)

BIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER

EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

SECRET

€ 9)

---

## Page 109

a,ezii... .

-. с. лі. Мо діно собод ае. го."

C00OC-b1

---

## Page 110

14-00009

-..

X 0468

B5CI8%

calet er sembles

(LEPIPIE)

an/o

ackground Superte on Sthjests of Bedernoo

ALP STa 30 Decenter 150

TT, 12 Jeany 190t

Attnetal heretta are coples et the reports pupared by NeOs, & enrazz

A stated cous,

E = 003,

(LOPIPE TO

CHOP I

cAfF

OSMA-20639.

pipers

1490N66

---

## Page 111

L

i CATE".

---

## Page 112

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 113

...=

He7 13014.78

A R0D da

---

## Page 114

•..-

td-innod

N9SMOE Ве

wwa.pparaaacan@emee @oa@wednnSaSMcICeal.dan 9550923ien9eNTTEReSeSAESUSEiM9S yEDrrChi

is' aawusoonseseee

T .

...=sera

nyo?

---

## Page 115

OOCO

i.t..

www.ccom

ne "

oisus daaco domdo catataot do laocida mreetade oso coate i

cstt

---

## Page 116

td-itton

W29S3NGN6'A.596464444584339

iedtiht

....k

iii."

I1d%

t,dt*..

---

## Page 117

Chies of Station

ACPIPIT

Chios, KUTOLE

DIDORIC /ARPRE!

ACTION BEQUIRED: IT

REE:

A. PALP 5033 (I4 96553)

B. OILA 3128 (13 Movember 1965)

1.

We have discusod the substance of the question raised

In Bet & through tho rogular leadquartore channel with tha

ODENVY Rop bore who has acted as a point of llalson forl

motorial 1n tbe past.

to passed on, also, the satorials which

you propared for the OIlVY representative with tbon you are

In contact 1a L

le raised spocifically the quostion of

Passing l

identity to thel

OLIVY representative,

which you montionod in Bof B, stating that, so las as KULARK

Is concerned, ve had no objections. The ODIIVY ropresentative

hore, however, thought that this night serve to confuse somo

what the lines of cooriluation forl

inforation, for

which ODINVY headquartors has sole rosponsibility.

la thoro

Soro felt that ve should continue the prosent arrangament by

Whick, in effect,

Idontity is hold here at the point

whore his material within ODIVY originates. He approciated,

boreror, your initiative In filling 1s thol

ODENTY

roprocontative on the targots which

can sorvice, thus

alerting him to posgiblo leads he aljit look into.

Bo EuLgestE

alao that ve bo kept awaro of your llaison ulth ODINVY to the

fold to mard arainet false confirmation or other possible

dupiication which could lead to confusion here in those

quartors of ODIVY reponsible for proceasing the

natorial.

2. With reapact tol

discussed in Rei A,

and q's possiblo relationship with It, ve uill report soparatoly.

Hovoll D. KANIKRIATER

Distrlbntlon:

OrIg. & 1 - 008,

_ACPIPIT

F7 JAN 196:

OFLH-1414

• 200-124 156/2

CA/CF Chronc

- CI/ICG

CA/CT

300124136/3

(30-12-65) 7767

CIACG

C/CA

---

## Page 118

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

43

cory

REPRODUCTION PAGINATED

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ALPION

ADVANCE

coPy

TIME

AFT

BLOTTED

VR. FILE.

WEG, CARGONOG, FEb, FI, CL, celoes, alsza,

FIlINT 2, -000

CRISAS

SECRET 221745Z

PARI DIR INFO PALP CITE

5337. CAYOOD

ZIBET LCHARVEST

ACTING

(EO:

REF

8052 1 39470) 1

RPTS

SI

CA

8o UNBOUND HAS MADE AVAILABLE TO ODENVY SAME INFO

100

BF

SEC

AS CONTAINED

17S

REF. ODEENVY

INSIST THEY HAVE NO OPS INTERST

SER

IOUSLY DOUBT EITHER

OR JAGUAR AVE ANY RELATIONSKIP

SINCE WOULD BE GROSS CAND

SOONER OR LATER

APPARENT CONTRAVENTION OUR

RE

3• ODENVY FILES HERE REFLECT FURTHER INFO ON CHARCES

A KUBARKER, ALTHOUGH NOTHING TO INDICATE JASIS FOR SUCH CLIGES.

(SEE ODENVY/WASH LETTER TO XUBARK INFO ODENVYA

¡ DEOSA, CAPTIONED

CAN HOS SHED ANY LIGHT?

4 •

SECRET

---

## Page 119

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRÉT

IN 47512 PAGE 2_

HOS SEE OEL 39690

AND DEL 394900)

HAVE PREVIOUSLY ACKNOWLEDGED THEY VOULD LIKE

SCUTTLE REVOLUTION REPEAT REVOLUTION. REQUEST

_BE ADVISED

OF SCHEME OF DIR 63751• THEN, IF APPROPRIATE, SUGGEST VE

DISCUSS WITH

/JAGUAR/LCBEFORE AS NECESSARY TO ENLIST THEIR

COOPERATION® JAGUAR IN PARTICULAR MAY BE USEFUL IN PROVIDING

CURRENT DATA ON

AND MAY BE ABLE GET SOMEONE CLOSE TO HIM

IN ORDER OBTAIN OPS DATA IN SUPPORT ANY PLAN FOR OP AGAINST

REVOLUTION REPEAT REVOLUTION• PLS ADVISE®

SECRET

UNBOUNd

INFo

SECRET

Co

---

## Page 120

14-00000

201- 306052

---

## Page 121

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIEN!

ORIG :

UNIT:.

EIT :

DATE :

TO %"

7767

9 DEC 2965

_ICPIPIT

FROM: DIRECTOR

cons CA/0 4

31

D RETURN TO BRANCH 1 FLE RID

C0XXXXXXXXXXXXx200000

ROUTING

15

D INDEX

SECRET

E NO INDEX

EE FILE IN CALENO 201-306052

2

3

8

1 0 DEC 55

14 325

STO CE

INFO: VR • FILE

INFO

CITE DIR

PALP •

DIDORIC APREY

164369

RETS: Ae

0723 (IN 00407)

ABSTRACI K

B. DIR 63637

PEt

Lo CONSULRATION WITH

YIELDS FOLLOWING:

A TRAVEL VILE U.S. PASSIORT FROM AREA OUISIDE U.S. CONSIDERS!

TECHNICAL VIOLATION, NOT BASIS FOR CRIMITIAL PROSECURION.

B. EVIDENCE OF SUCH TRAVEL, B.G. CUBAN VISA STAND, IS BASIS

FOR ATMITISIRATIVE ACTION BY STATE DEPT AGATYST EDIDER OF PASSPORT.

I.F. NECK HE FRESANTS FIS PASSEORI FOR POXEWAI, EMBASSY WILT REPER TO

DEPARINT FOR GUIDANCE, EQUILI FEELININE-TI-ISSUANCE OF JEN PAREPORT.

C002 016X-707 DIE-WAT TAVE TORTO

C. DESPITE REF A REPORT PRON ODELIVY THAT PASSPORI FILE IS

CLEAN,

CANNOT ASSURE THAT PASSPORT OFFICE

PROCEDURES HOULD AVIOMATICALIS RENEW

PASSPORT ON REQUEST,

- one

TO DEPT IF SUCH MADE,

WITHOUT REPERRAI A THERE NAY ENTST DEROG III

_PASSPORT FILE

HERE RESUITING IN INSIRUCIIES TO

EMBASSY ISSUS LILUED PASSFORT

FOR TRAVEL. HOMBA: CAN IOT CLARIFY FURIER STATUS L

FITE HERE WITHOUT

DIVULGING TRUS HAMS.

Contimed..

COORDINATINS OFFICERS

201-306052

ARABINE OFFICEA

SECRET

OFFICAN

REPRODUCTIN NY OTHER THAN THE ISSURE OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

---

## Page 122

NEG!

UNIT 3.

EXT !

DATE :

To !

FROM: DIRECTOR

CO08 8

TO

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

DINDEX

O NO NDEX

DJ FILE IN CS FILENO

DEC 14 8 56 AM 63

PACE THO

SECRET

BEFO: VI. FILE DO RID COPY

INFO •

2. IN ANY CASE ME ABLE PROTECT

REQUEST FOR RENEWAI. IS REFERRED TO

TRAVEI, OR SOME OTEER CAUSE, WE CAN HAVE

D ENOR I RETURN TO BRANCH O FILE RID

T0000XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXDOXDX

ROUTING

•1

5

thiC

113 4 53Htt UJ

6

A 00

CIẸ DIR

64369

BECAUSE OF CUBAN

3º PLEASE ADVISS WARN

_PASSFORT EXPIRES. I IT HAS BEY

REYENED RECENTY, CUBAN VISA WILL FRESSIT NO PROBLEY FOR LIFE OF

RONEW

DOCOMENT.

SHOULD NOT ANYAMPI

WHY WHOOT PRIOR COORDINATION •

WHY! EQS.

.4. FLEASE ADVISE ATSO WHETHER L

EAS RECEIVED CUBAN VISA FOR

TRAVEL, HOW ACQUIRED, AND WEAT ARRANGEMENTS HE PLANS FOR TRAVEL.

APPRECIATSY ESTIMATED TRAVEL COSIS.

BREAKDOSA

END OF NESSAGS

CCs

- CI/IC

NE/BC/U

C/CA

OPPICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

thaten treats captains

CA/CE

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy ma.

---

## Page 123

14-00009

So Chiofs of station

Chlos of stAtIon, /ICPIPIT.

DIDORIC/operational

Poemity of

No OPIA SONA (Hot Dont Caler, CSB, L

COs

98t0

No Persurded boroith la a Nonrandus for the sooord concerniag

REPIrTY" lovestlantion of the sourity of L

-yoten follies an esteoto Invalving an 11 Detaber 1955 crosage received from lin

by ICKPIT.

# I regant medquartero® guldnes conserning this altutio,

vita spontal reformos to Prograph y of the attached Monorandas, in order that t

1, especialay in viou of tire plans to coad L

on as entented ilalt to

commoing soutine in eid-Doesnter 1965.

Farvey C. FADCACH

Astratments

Dietribatlear

- Color sat l

c, COa.

C03.

waste he

COd,

mattie ha

3 - C, KUWOLF

NOV 26 1965

ORA 3152

at Howaber 1935

800-221256/2

---

## Page 124

-

MXMORANDUM FORS The Record

FRON

SUBJECT

REPIRENCES

& Harvey Go FAHNRICH

o security of

* Ao OFZA 3044

PALP 4385

Co

5087

NETOPAZ prepare for

In the latter part of June.

Concurrently,

on LCPIPIT's behalf. requested in OFPT 10348 that

Ji's use an

which would alleriate the

for the agent.

was received subsequently

18 July 1965, at which time his original

and passed to

was withdraw.

11 81r86 1

dated 22

July 1963,

couments on which were

transmitted to interested KUBARK Headquarters

und Field componenta in Referance B. L

71 undervent a corrective briefing

On the basis of LCPIPIT's Instruction to refrain fromI

except for

11 did not employ it agala

until 11 October 1965.

Indeed met the criteria for

Tbut as in the 22 July letter the

To quotel

Station

On the basis of this report.

and the fact that the

be

mecessity of

wlehdrew the

on 20 October 1965. ICIPIT retains possession of

---

## Page 125

14-00000

which contains the L

Inserted in tbel

No. 3 st1ll bound

and

The Id Cetober

No Of Brenter concera to LEPIPIT, however, vere the folloring

addicional comments of l

_Station I

Tregarding the 11 Octoberi

5. In the 20 October meeting at which bla

was withdrmn

Vl stated that he had L

]che ll October|

He conceded that there was some

but nothing which could be l

at 1100 hours whan he was alone at his home an

the remalader of the l

Lemed ataly. de said he then out th

immadiately and l

He added that he then placed the

1t do his pocket, and

Jit two hours later

Vi asserted that he did not

and was certaln that his wife had not seen 1t.

Pursuant to ICPIPIT's exploration of this question vich

we sent an informal note to NKTOPAZ Via a I

1965 requesting assistance in efforts to determine whether I

_Station Officer on 20 October

V2°a

He

%. The

vere pleked up at the LEPIPIT

Jand were handcarried by al

Station Officer

Jon 18 November for processing by MATOPAL.

VLCPIPIT anked the

opiaion of MKTOPAZ on the following pointer

Bo MICTOPAZ advisad LCPIPIT on 19 November Vía 9240 that there

---

## Page 126

14-00000

Repent

Vi: Security Aspects

Is reply to the asticacó (lesso

on Hare Situazion) icilgest sola

1o de can't do anguing accut ris

housing procle in tic. ci non-pe ent

nature of our present arrarg=€75.

2o Avoid formalizing periodical at this

point; it should require no authorizations

for publication as in 1s sorely a news

correspondent is report, tireographed for

convenience not a razzzize.

alone should have rescorsibility

2. In order to control content to

mite and eat to cle

delegate

contacts.

OFLA- 3146/1

26Nor.1965

I Car

201-306052

---

## Page 127

idt:

DELA 3146/1

Her shivialas

iy wife was rather sostile to ay rong abous my corncts tit tre

•I coulends work sosciting

Tuzje

be treated jy the

sce asked, jyway, see auced,

toe

Ijiain't really cive a darr about

nicoturt

she pointed out the citation das dirticuit for us.

Ice limora

Jwas tryiró to evia: is did :e ica

G0116•

I bad iu sunstabiai dundo arou

Livin on the detrosity of to cans

, sit raid.

Moreover, she was tired of

sirE & crase ridor.

I las keeping secrets

fron ner,

she dad bees certa::.

fun conctice, she scid.

Sce rad rad

enouch trouale witi my "secrius" i. the pasi, she said.

However, she liked tre idea of

conte, but was sorry arous toe

"objectivity" ard ine 50 copies coy

Trere vas no reasor, it

I could get sose neig fron val

Ithat I couldn't take a success

Jara really de inceporient, she said.

I emphasized to fer it 1 nai mi consoted with sc

nitrout

nils' arouleige ard im: she shouid di so account ever mention the

matter with his.

sce said tint mowed dow the l

treater neco-e.

nobody was more noreat tan lils, she added, what as happening to

him now would supper io Ic ore duj, she suda.

veT, R5 to clearely posed with te

and spênt sose

I was preperina.

wrote. x herself a pioce or aû...tod.

i saver the feelin- that z 10

1 per resentment bouca de bissinaced li she could allored to barat

most of the business involved viti

---

## Page 128

OFLA 3146/1

conocer i

---

## Page 129

14-00000

18 NOT 65

copy in Katzeatach

OFLA 3146/1

Subjects

1. - Security at hoce

1. At his 1? Hoverber meeting with Podigast

asked some questions cancemung loeg oi tales and corespondence. He keeps

copies of all correspondence (ezcept routine letters transmittinz articles

he hash ritten, for exanple) in a file to vica his rife bas access.

He maintains a unimum or questionable rotes,

and deeps das personal

notebook (with addresses, expenses, etc.) in lis coa: socket day and night.

2. His wife has two brothers. The one to who l cres soney is

Gordon, a

chartered accountant, was during sorld Wa: lI was 17 aritish

Military Intellizense. He visits the l haze to bring gifts iros the wireis

politics are apparently saladly conservative. This witels other brother,

Less involved with then, works for Rant.)

l. A ranted to get a laryer's opinion on toat regalations govern

publishing a peridicai in his countsy of residence (be is not of course

officially a resident at all). Sensing additional costs and unnecessary

formality, Rodigast sugzested thau he seep it on the basis or being

a 1

_sos a separate

requiring eventual licenses of payper: of business taxes, at least for

the time being. Mailed first class, the naterial should require no permit

from the mail authorities. A contact had suggested de night have

diffiailty with the locals (see rejor. or l's 15 love-ber contact with hp).

---

## Page 130

14-00000

on t 340341478023

COASTIFY TO PILE'NO.

ПОДЕР TO

#ALE

BILL GIO

BET. TO DRANCE O

0&1700Y

D

CL

•IFIED NESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCT IOR PROMIBITED

(LCPIPIT)

ACTION

3 RID COPY

AOVANCE COPY

Dicense Deserred rose

CW 0 7

TO ME

SE CRET 171642Z

DIR, CITE PALP 5933

DI D OR IC

KUDESK

PEF DIR 577A7, PARA 3

17 ku 65: 95553

1. PALP POUCHING DETAILS FIELD LIAISOY WITH @ENVYA

RE

EXCHANGE INFO PERTAINING

PROR IME CITIZEN CONTACIS.

(Q) IDENTITY NOT DIVULGED LOCALLY.

2o AMONG INFO RECEIVED FROY ODENVY IS REPCRT DATED 17 DEC 54

NEW YOPK (FILE NO: BUFILE 100-434919) RE

REQUEST HORS STUDY THIS DOCUMENT WITH PURPOSE ASSESSING

FEASIPILITY HAVING

IN ATTEYPT SECURE

INCLUDING POSSIELE

!¿3O APPRECIATE IF LINK MAY EE INADVISAFLE IN VIES: AY

SEEMING INCOMPATISILITY ETWEEN INDIPECT ASSOCIATIONI

EFFORTS

AND

AND OR CANIZATIONS

•SECRET

---

## Page 131

1/865

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

iN 9L52:1051

ALSO APPRECIATE IF ASSUCIAIIUA

SHOLLD DE DISCUSSED WITH ODENVY

40 FOS COING HOT YET DISCUSSED WITH @ OR RODIGAST AND WILL NOT

FE PAISED WITH FOYER PENDING IOS PEPLY.

5. NO IIDEX

SECRET

CFN 5833 57747 PARA 3 PALP CENVYA REL

POPR IME

_Ti COS NOT DIVULGED INFO ODENY 17 DEC 6A NEW YORX SUFILE

• 198434919 PE

C)

F

ENVY NOT

YET A RODIGAST NOI

BE HDS NO INDEX

- .

'ee.

144T1222

4:3- 9508

i SECRET

---

## Page 132

SECEST

Chief. WHOL!

Chiefs, A. WE, WORSK, JURIOTs Chiefe of Statton,

Chet al Statien,

IDORIC/ Operation:

O Octaber 1965 Cantact with ICPIP

Ferwarded heroulth as Attachent A 18 Carer Agent Rufus

Po RODIGAST's ContRet lupert of his 20 October 1965 meeting w1tt

Porvardod 18 Astaoinent B (USC) 1a the identity llot for

ROSICAST's Cantaos Report.

3o

rarded herowith as Attachat C 18 the Trogress. Repor

moatttod byl

V to RODIOST at the 20 Dotober meeting

A carenal

rovlen of the repert's cantont did not Justify kUrvas discontention of

any of the enterial tharain.

4o Conlos of reerut essrespondence addressed to and sunt by

1w111 be terrardod by noiscuntablo unitest as appropriato.

1 had prepared

CPIPTY received the fallowing ropert

onoring this Letters

Attententes As statod.

Distrlbitian:

- CAN TO 1C. 143 0

- CRAP M/Atte. Aoc, has B use

Call s/Atta. AoC, has B une

GoKuWar wAtta A,C kus B use

fuel

1

CORURIOT W/AtRo A har

COS.

Cos|

w/Attee A,C lin B unc

- COS,

200-124-156/3

OFIA J01A

BBCHET

OCT 28 1963

Fill In 201-306052

25 Outaber 1963

396020405613

Enta

---

## Page 133

CIA JORA

D'a repented enrolennes

A ful repart on this

untter, Inaluting 183 seontetsen, vi)) be famardod appropriato antressens

no corn an the investiention can be completed.

Favey G. PASIRICH

....

Fill in 201-3060520

---

## Page 134

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

Chief, Komar

AF

Chief,

Chief, ICRIPIT

NE; ChieR, tr; Chies, KUYOu;

Chief of Station,

QUPREY JAGUAR

JAGUAR Report on

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERDICES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR MEXPE

IN MOCKINS REGURED

ONLY QUALITIO DESA

can so maxia

ПОСНОГИ!

Ref:

A OKLA

43, 522,

B OELA

43,802g

2 July 1965

11 August 1965

The following is the text of a JAGUAR report onl

and I

JAGUAR states that the information was

received from a

11

2o Ref a contains previous JAGUAR comments about L

11 and

V1 was in touch with

with what L

Ref B reflects a different

contact between the two, from a different sourge®

George

KATLENBACH

Distribation:

Chief, KUDISK

3 Chief,

WE

2-Chief,

AF

2-Chief,

KUWOLF

2-Chief, ICPIPIT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

BEPY

OSPATCH SYMBOL AND SUMTER

0x1A-44, 033

GLASHFICANON

SECRET

CR.u

H0w29ra54g ded

declass he lies

201-30605

0 cEp 1965

Septenber 1965

HOS FILE SIBER

---

## Page 135

14-00000

i lates bernd streets Fiergis

RID

133 1.

NO: 00 8. 201-175,837 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

#-BED TO 'ILE NO.

DESTROY O s16.

then Cure Do SECRET

ERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

OTAL COPIES

REPACOUET IN PROMID ITED

ACTIOn

ADVANCE COPY

UMAT

CALOt

MRID COPY

INFO

ELE VE, CAL ABDO, O, WEB, AEZ, EES, SilLes, CafeRo,

ROS- Ken

SECRET 271812Z.

INFO DIR CITE(PALP 4723)

UNCRISP

313433

27 Sữ 6p 606 11

DIDORIC CRPREY|

KUDESK

REF

6528(95885661

1. RELUCTANT GIVE UP I

.. Ao S TO, BE.

V1 (S) FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:

TO CONFERENCE, WITH RENEWED

AND NEW VISA. AS GUEST NEW REGIME WITH NO

CONNECTION TO OLD, LESS LIKELY TO BE DISTUFED. S TO REMAIN

IN NORMAL CONFERENCE MILIEU THROUGHOUT.

B. EVIDENCE AVAILABLE HERE IS ONLY ORTHODOX COMMUNISTS OR

TROISKYISIS ASSOCIATED WITH OLD REGIME HAVE BEEN TROUBLED, BUT

NOT

S IS PART OF MINORITY WHICH FOLLOWED

IN SUPPORTING NEW REGIME, FROM FIRST DAY.

Co MOST OF S° OLD

ARE GONE SO HE NOT LIKELY BE INVOLVED WITH THEM. EXCEPTION IS

WHO SEEMS TO HAVE MADE PEACE WITH REGIME. S° OTHER CONTACIS

WILL BE LIKE HIMSELF BE GUESTS OF NEW REGIME AND OF CONFERENCE.

THEY WILL USUALLY BE

_ SUCH AS

D. WE CONTINUE HOLD TO

ORIGINAL VIEW THAT S ATTENDANCE AT 201-306052

8085775537

---

## Page 136

14-00009

:. o

1N60611

PA6E2

CONFERENCE WOULD BE USEFUL TO

I FOR

FURTHER OPERATIONS. $ WILL CONTINUALLY BE MOVING IN POIENIIALLY

THIS COULD BE TRUE OF TRIPS

AT SOME TIME OR ANOTHER. IN VIEW OF NATURE OF OPERATION, THE RISK

WOULD SEEM TO BE WORTH TAKING.

- 2 PALP UNABLE EVALUATE POSSIBLE COMPLICATIONS

REAPPEARANCE MIGHT PRESENT. AS OF 15 SEPT S NOT OVERLY APPREHENSIVE.

3. PALP REMAINS MOST INTEESTSO DISCUSSING ABOVE WITH

OFFICER PER PALP 4689

AND PALP 4712, PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

NINClUDED

It unwist

CFN 4723 6529

S'S' NO CONNECTION S MILIEU TROTSKYISIS

OPERATE.

NOT

S° l

15 S NOT OVERLY PALP

PER PALP 4689 PALP 4712 PLS

BI

322229611e

TE: 01619M

HS

SETTE

datesar

-=*.

59. HY BE 1!

TESS

9242398

---

## Page 137

14-00000

DESTHOY

40.161 30105.2

• aniTains

• To BRAMEN Y

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT

' NOTIFIED

TOTAL PARIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ACTION

COPY

WH/c8

(MAID COPY

inFo

FILE UR, WES

DAD, CA/OU, A SP, C1, 221, 00/H3, CA/220,

alies

LCRET

2216432

DIR INFORGI

CITE

PALP 4575

ASSARLES X NONS 65155673

UNCRISP TYPIC PERUMEN

APREY KUDES

Z PROCESSEI

1055673

REF: DIR 41939€

27 5ep1.45

:. 1* IN 15 SEPT MEETING

/I (S) TOLD RODIGAST

PER

SEPT REMARKS TO S AND 5 SEPT

STORY

EDITS

OF U.S.

"EMERGENCY COMMITTES ON VIETNAM" AND HAS BEEN AN

2. < FIVE SEPT

CABLED

JASKING

CONTINJED SUPPORT

EFFORTS RE FREE RIDE

AND

30 § HAS KNOVN F AND WIFE SINCE 1960. F WIFE'S FAMILY HAS FURNITURE

BUSINESS NEW YORK CITY AND F WORKED

BOOKSTORE AND

PUBLISHING HOUSE.

40. 5 HAS MET WITH F IN I

OVER PAST FIVE YEARS.

THOUGH CLOSE FRIENDS, S CLAIMS F

ORIENTATION (PUT NOT BECAUSE OF OLD CHARGES S IS KUBARK AGENT. ›

S.. § CLAIMS E NOVAMARXIST, NO ENOTIONALLY ANTI-AMERICAN, NOT

IDEOLOGICALLY MOTIVATED, NEITHER COMUNIST NOR ANTI-COMMUNIST. & "FRANK"

2o SeptEr

WITH S THAT HE HAS SEEN ACCUSED I:!

B201-726122

790795-579

HOROSCAUALITY SUT S SAYS 1

mant

801-306052

1779-244

---

## Page 138

14-00009

+++++++ 5-60363

9464460-9098099

SECRET

18 55683

ol6??

AÍSO SHOSS INTEREST IN WOMEN. SIS WIFE NOT PHYSICALLY ATTRACTIVE AND

OTHER ACQUAINTANCES CLAIM HE MARRIED FOR NONEY.

S SAYS F DOES NOT APPEAR HAVE MUCH MONEY AND HAS MAINTAINED

MODESTL

APARTMENTE

%. Fº5 WIFE WORKSL

_EMPASSY. WIFE'S SISTER CAMEL

AT BIRTH

F'S THIRD CHILD THREE MONTHS AGO. ON RETURNING I

_WITHE 3I AUG

UNDERSTANDINS WAS SHE TO CARE FOR INFANT SIX MONTHS SINCE F'S WIFE

ECEKED MORNINGS EMBASSY AND COULDNOT CARE FOR INFANT UNDER SUCH CONDI-

TIONS.

why didn't S/ report this at Muterie

8. § SAYS § TOLD HIM MONTH ASO HE WANTED TRANSFER MADR OR HOPED

OZTAIN FELLOWSHIP OR LEAVE ABSENCE PERMITTING STAY WESTERN EUROPE.

SCRIBES POT O BE IT SON

AND

5 CLAIMS F LOST NOTHING IN COMMUNIST TAXE-OVER

HAS PREVIOUSLY TOLD S

THAT F SPOKE AT COMMUNIST RALLIES

_ AND TOOK PRO-MOSCOW LINE ON

SINO-SOVIET ISSUES. S KNOWS NOTHING OF THIS AND QUESTIONS

ACCURACY•

10.. APPARENTLY S NOT FOREVARNED & HASTY DEPARTURE.

-11. S. VOLUNTEERED & WOULD "QUIT ONLY UNDER TERRIFIC ATTACK AND

SECRET

"Ra?

---

## Page 139

14-00000

• "=

+ 40259 200.100

ECRET

55673

PiAGE 3

1 MESSURE FROM HOME OR IF SOVIE AMBASSADOR

TWISTED ARM (RODIGASI

DID NOT SPECIFY REASON FOR DEBRIEFING. I LOPIPIS VIL TRY CLARIFY.

12. POUCHING FULL REPORT.

13. NO INDEX.

AQS

SECRET

CFN':

4675 41989 15 SEPTE

V1 S RODIGAST

MIGHLYINTERTITED

COUTACTS

F

PER

I SEPT S 5 SEPT

EDITS

SEPT S F C/O FORNMIN_

FS RE

S F 1960 F WIFE'S NEW YORK CITY F

S F NYC

S F

S

NOT BECAUSE S KUBARK AGENT S F NON-MARXIST NOT EMOTIONALLY

ANTI-AMERICAN NOT IDEOLOGICALLY NEITHER COMMUNIST NOR ANTI-COMMUNIST

§ FRAIK S

F' 5

HOMOSEXUALITY S E F'S NOT PHYSICALLY SE NOT APPEAR

F 31 AUG F'S NOT CARE S F WESTERN EUROPE

F's|

S F NOTHING IN

S F PRO-MOSCOW

SINO-SOVIET S NOTHING OF

S NOT FOREWARNED F S F SOVIET RODIGAST NOT SPECIFY LOPIPIT NO INDEX

---

## Page 140

SECRET

1 September 1963

TO:

Direstor, DIRAN

VIA:

Contumet Approving 01f1oer

Jalf

•cades of station,

ICPIPIT

/7, as Independent Contmator

lo Term end Profoot Charge. The mibfoot individual has boes empered

under oral contract an a developmental agunt for an as yot witten Project

involring holy and Kunast and coordinated through eRPrEY.

sub foot's

anlary and expanssa are to be chargad against the BOLINABLE Feld Allotment

DOr DIA 36066. The effootive data of the oral contraot 1a 1 Septenber 1965,

und 1t shall continue thereafter on & math-ro ponth baste subjeot to

terenation by, and at the ovenience of, ODYCKE ulthout prior nottee.

Project (of1 DIR 36066). IAPIPIT adylsed 2 June 1965L

prented elearnoe for ICFLUTTER (OPs DIE 15660).

3. Sierrephia. The subject to not a forolen national.

4. Compensetion. The subjeet till be pade 5600.00 per montis.

mbfoot will be advised that he must file a covert 1nocne san roturn through

JUBARK•

5. Operatican! Expenper.

(A) The subfoot will be reimbursed for operationnl travel, emept

as noted ta pars. 8 belor.

(B) The subfoot will be reludursed for operational expinees,

except as noted in para. & below.

The folloring additional couitments have been

made to the subject:

detailed nocounting of misoellaneous travel expenses, per dien will be pald

at the rato of $20.00 during persode ol arthoriood travel.* Per Personal

ling of chiar of station. _

VcrIPTY dated 12 July 1965:

"It mabjoot

la abeet from his home atation an authorised travel for part of one dal

SECRET

---

## Page 141

and rutama to his hoo station the nigit of that same day (1.0, 11 no

hotel eps is trold ta the ome of overight nocoodattons), tha

ho shall do entitled to dem 1/2 of hia nutborised pus die of $30.00

(1.0 510.00)," Par dian under the above terns will be paid emert ne

noted in part. & below.

To Continent Oblseatsons. No additional octate baus bean made

Honovor, in the original Letter

"ODYUKE w11l componnato you in an anount

unliy astond upon for the relocation of you ad your family to a neu

menideneo 18 such a reloation 18 eonidered dentrable by you and ODYOKE."

Under the efreutanoes oDYs uny have to supplenat much rundo o

mbject my mostro for relocatton Bron a tures orgmisation, Institutios.

or gert in order to trirag much relocation ermers a get o

parally tea.

8. No comtaente othur than thone statod above bure been medo ta

the subjeet. Moreover, la enson where trivel mid/er operational espennes

and/or per dies ere provided or fumiched la nomy or la lind fros othes

agalnot the obligations asmust in the above oral coitamte.

So To metance of pure. 1, 4. 5. 6, and 8 (ersapt do noted in

the scond surtance of part. 4) have been commented to, and sonopted te.

the enfert.

SOMETED

Richard D. S0KSe

Chit of Station.

ACTIFTY

WE CamEro: Approvins OfFices

SECRET

---

## Page 142

DISPATCH

* Chief of Station,

VICPIPIT

CLASSAFICATION

S-I-C-I-I

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR MEDIAN

ONLY QUALITED DESE

CAN NONE COCKE

rochief, KUWOlf

SURECT

IYYDORIC/OPERATIONAL

I1 Reporting

ANCHOr IM

•OFIA OFIA-2650

OrL-12 and 0T113 were passed to the approprate Headguarters desk for the

evaluation regested in reference.

The resulte of the evaluations vere that the reporte based on

alicitation contained "nothing more than chit-chat and opinion" with no new

Informatlon that could be disseminated. As Indicated In the lost sentence .

of reference this result was not unanticipated by ICPIPIT.

S.

In ver of

/l'a reportorial cepabilities however, ve hope that his

continued efforto to elicit and report tinely Information will be vigorously

maintained.

1 N Sude

У 1. 17022)

JURY T. RAMCILE

Distrlbutions

3 = COS,

1 - COS,

ICFIFIT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

- RI

WE/3

CA/B3

1 . CA/ INT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MUMER

OFIN-1240

CLASSIFICATION

OFFICE

CA/INT

OFFICE STMBO

DATE

201-306052

DATE

20 August 1965

NOS FILE NUMBER

2006-31;

COCKUINAlING

OFFICER'S NAME

EXT.

7486

in

FORAR

1-6.7

53

CA/EF

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

TOFICE SYMBOL

DC/CA

DATE

(20%

DISPATCH

---

## Page 143

11-00000

SECRET

Chief al batten

POPITT

chiss, it

DNSORDC/42P94557/3010853/

HE 0PA2139 Ay 1963

A. - Translital of Backgrand Interiale

.:.

+H018197 11

Boot playabel Do 6761, 23 Jesury 1965, und sto attaciesatalon

So It 1e Maaly that ve call be sile to sart uy & nore comit

Attactmentas Bs

All, as listed above

Distrtbations

8 = COBL

650 1

Endiotal trass artic

NOVELS D. KARMARYSA

800-J06058

OFL44-1231

19 AUG 1965

SECRET

200-12579

1 - 61/100

• CA/Cr

1 = HD/Filas (for

300126-79 5110)

•8 = 201-706052

CA/CT

TIET

CI/ICG

I7 Ang 65

(an draft)

---

## Page 144

94103.

DISPATCH

PROCESSING ACTION

SICRET

ABANUTE FOR ANCHIE

Chief, LCPIPIT

INFO

Chief, 4B: Chief, RUDESK; Chief, KUIOLE

Chief of Station,

WICKLDESK CAPREY

Into Requested from

JAGUAR

V1

NO NIGERIAS REQUIRES

ONLY QUALETED DESE

CAN RESE INDESE

1.

JAGUAR, 1n acknowledging receipt of the processed

matertal that we forwarded to them, bave also asked for "further

Intornation about

We

should be most grateful for any further identifying particulars

for both

and with regard to the latter, ve should

particularly like to kaor his present position la connection with

and whether he still holds

JAGUAR's note was shown to RODIGAST in

on 12 August,

just before RODIGAST not with

LCPIPIT please provide

anything that can be had for passage to JAGUAR.

As should be fairly apparent, I think, from reading the .

material ve passed to JAGUAR, plus the fact that there has been

these many nonths, the status of anyone

connected with the

Jis about as uncertain as the status

Jitself.

Nonetheless, we will be happy to let

JAGUAR know as much as we can.

GeOrge H. KATZENBACR

Distribution:

2-Chief, ICPIPIT

3-Chiel,

WE

2-Chiel,

KUDESK

*Chief, KUWOL!

8295: = 50

820018-33133

CROSS ISTENDIDE TO

OX1A-43, 827

MOROSESE

16 August 1965

---

## Page 145

14-00000

-

DISPATCH

Chial, ICPIDIT

Chief, MR; KUOLE; KUDISE; HI

FROM

chlol or station

SURES KUDESK ORPREY

CLASTIICATIOO a

SBCRET

PROCESSING ACTION

10 MOCK: BEGIN

ONLY QUALIFICO DEJA

CAN AGGE EDERIN

BOCHOF GLAB

1.

BAIRN,

report relating to l

operation, provides the following

71 (date of 1n10, 26 July 1965):

2.

This is for background information only.

WeT de: De Dissem outsese 4.5:

George H. KATZENBACH

Distribution:

2 Chief,

LCPIPIT

Chief, WI

2-Chlef, KUIOLE

2-Chief,

KUDESK

2-Chiel, WH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AMD RILMIEN

0F6d-13,802

CLASSIFICATION

S RCRET

Enchted trea arsent

Letting tal

DATE

201-206052

11 August 1965

NOS FILE MUNGER

201-306052

---

## Page 146

DISPATCH

90

Chief of Station

ENO

Chief of Station,

Cier, KIWOLE

SUBACT

DIDORIC/CRPREYA

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERDNCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR MODEONE

NO MOCING REQUIRED

QUET QUALIFTED DEST

CAM ROGE ICEXTED

ERPEREICES: As OFIA-2538

B. DIR 2TTT9

OnaiVY traces an Subject have turned up gmeral background date

containing no derogatory infomation.

Dietributien:

2 - 00S,

2 • 003;

л.0д

CROSS REFERENCE RO

201-306052

8 AUG 1955

1

1

CA/ CP

→1 - RID/FIles

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO PUMBER

07D4-1222

CLASSIFICATIONE

SECRET

OFFICE

-CA/CE

CÍTICE STADUR

w/3/4

DEFICER

DATE

DATE

1QS FILE PILIBER

201-306052

ORIGINATING

TYPEST

COCRDINATING

EXT.

THET

DC/CA

DATE

(40)

точи 53.

1-d]

USE FREVIOUS ESTION

DISPATCH

---

## Page 147

CRASSIFY TO PILE NOL

M-RIE TO FILE GO.

DESTROY O sIG.

CROOSIFIED NESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

DEREDDLCTISO POOMIBIIED

ACTION

10/0 4

EIRD COPY

ADVANCE COPY

TIGE

DY

Lose Doore CreeD

BP= 7

WE CRET 291003Z

29 32 65N2135

DIR INFO PALP CITE

8835

FI

VUDESK OR FREY

hEF:

PALP 4385/N20682)

ABSTRACk

HAS LONG SUSPECTED

A JAGUAR SOURCE.

WHILE WISH PASS REF INFO, WOULD LIVE WAIT WEEK OR

SO TO SEE IF VE

GET SAME FROM THEM.

2• REQUEST PERMISSION PASS CAREFULLY SANITIZED VERSION

REF INFO TO JAGUAR ABOUT AUG 10, 'UNLESS THEY PROVIDE SAME INFO IN

ACANT IME.

3. FIRST SUBJ PARA 2 D

REF

IS

SECRET

CN 8835 4385

A JAGUAR REF REF AUG 10 2 D

SEGRET

29 July 5

201-306052

---

## Page 148

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDD REY. TO BRANCH D

DESTRY D 916.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO

TOTAL COPIES, 31

GROUP I

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

WEX

TRID COPT

UNIT

Fl Experts

2337 65 8 1 7638

SECRET 2314222

PALP INFO DIR CITE

8762

KUDESK ORPREY L

REF:

8120(2114 738)

LATER JAGUAR NOTE STATES

/1, WHO NOW HAS U.K. VISITOR"S

PERMIT FOR THREE MONTHS, STATED HIS INTENTION TO GO TO

TO GATHER

SECRET

CFN E762 8728 JAGUAR

BT

TERE

Eister

.??:

¿ 3 JUL 1965

101-3060512

23 July 65

---

## Page 149

14t170

rorg... ai

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTOM, D.C. 20505

DBB /5

1 6 JUL 1965

50$

Mirector

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. So J. Papich

Deputy Director for Flans

SUBJECLE

In respones 19 juá icquisi

there 2'e

55:3

repora prich augeni io re'ate

to the subject di jeur inquing.

dutyi 083-19788

10833-15591

088-15587

58 July 1865

This reply is result of check of FBI

investimtive filus.

In cher's arrest

e ui mit'ed to

65 Qui l

CONFIRENTIAl

201-306052

t00-218

---

## Page 150

14-00000

15788

FD 206

(57-54)

JOTTED CRIES SEATSEY OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Title:

...

i Report of:

Special Agent JOSEPH HOLIDAY

Date and Place: Albany, New Tori, July 16, 1957.

PROPERTY OF FBI

This report Is loand to you by

the FBI, and neither 1t nor 1te

conterts are to be distributed

outside the ageney to which

loaned®

This 18 an FBI Investigative

report and makes no recommende

tion for clearance or disapproval.

This Bowment contalas nolthie

recommendations sor coclusion

et the FBL

It is the cryerty

al the FBI. and is loaned to

TOur anency: It nod its cratente

are not to be distribated out

wide your npencs. This kin

answer to sour request for a

check of Fil files.

---

## Page 151

14-00000

DBB / 5788

11 be Y6, 2957)

New York

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION

PrOTeSSOr JOHN dO GALBRALIA,

Economies Department,

mare one at it, or that onese dad,

assachusetts, presently

advised on duly 12g 1957

secretary and general assistant at Harvard University for

the past four years.

Professor GALBRAITH said he highly

recommends the applicant as to character

reputation and

loyalty.

He further

stated the applicant is a first-rate

the position she seeks.

ware of the position the applicant seeks in view of the

fact that he recommended her for this position.

Professor GALBRAITH was investigated In 1950 as

"YOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH, also known as J. KENNETH GALBRAITH,

KENNETA CALBRATE, COnsultant-Appointee Commodities

Division, Office of the Director, Office of Industry ana

United Stated Department of Connerce, Washington,

the provisions

of Executive Order 9835.

Commission advised that JOHN KUNNETH

OR 25 SETE GALBRAITH resigned ov

the Civil Serviee

otherwise separated from federal service, prior to decision

on loyalty

..'

---

## Page 152

DISPATCH

"I chies of station,

chief of Station,

Shes al

FELA 21020--100

i mANNED FOR INDOOSE

ILOPIEIT

NO BACCHING REQUIRED

CORT QUALIFIED DESAL

CAN I DGE BADUDE

FROM

Chief, KIDLY

SUBICT

DEDORIC/QKPREY/

ACTION REQUIRED, REFERÈNCES

#SCROFILE

Station vicws, Headquarters believes that

I proposal in Reference 18 a good one sad very consistent with

our intereste that he devclop his access and acceptability within the

eircles of nich Ref Iden A 1a a significant figure.

We realize that

the picture le a complicated one, and that Iden A of Ref say or nay not

yet prove to have the staying pover of the successful. L

figure.

At the ame time, it does seem that he is the most l

]today, and as such merits our attention.

2. With regard to Reference para 4's concern about possible damage

to our national interest by publication of the book in Inglish, we tend

to Bide vith l

Jin fecling that the support which such & publica

tion night render to our enemies could not really be detected by the

naked eye. Sintlarly, vile agreving with the sentiment that would

critically scrutinize all proposals by new assets, ve note that_

10, Indeed, supposed to bel

Jamong his former

nasociates, and that Ref proposal does not, to our view, contain any

hint which would suggest that in following out this line of action at

our direction, be 1s notivated by say ulterior or concealed aim different

Iron that which led us to impose the cormission in the first place.

Ve are attempting to get a rougi translation done on a priority

of course, should understand that such a translation

vill be unfinished, and should be carefully revieved for the proper

"feel," to rule out usage or Interpretation which

background, wonld never have inferred fron the French text. Honethe

Less, as the document has come to band only on 2 July, and given the

holiday weekend, the linitation on the nuner of translators avallable,

the existence of other translation assicments, and, finally, the pouch

transit time back tol

Ive regret that 1t will not be possible to

get this product to RODICheT for his 15 July meting.

Dietelbution:

2 - C0s,

2 - COS,

/ICPIPIT

CLAYTH P. HIRHAD

201-306052

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE

15 JUL 1985

HOS FILE MINDER

2010306052

1 - CI/IC

. - 1E/2/BL

CA/CH---

→ 1 - 201-306052

RESTRACT

(CA/CF

SC JINDEX

101" 53 USE PREMOUS EDITION

Enciated tress safarai

dectanatien tina

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND METABER

Orth-1152

CLASSIFICATIONI

SERRAI

***CA/CT

ENT

TYOT

OFFICE SYMBOL

CI/IC

нB/2/8L

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

(1n draft)

127

;:.'

T:"

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/CA

RELEASING

DATE

1 3 JUL 196€ dart Herer,

(80)

DISPATCH

---

## Page 153

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSiFICATION

BICEIT

DISPATCH STAND AND NO

0ELA- 43,589

HEADQUAITEAS FRE NO

TO

INFO

FROM

Chief, KUDESK

Chief, WE; Chief,

APs Chios, SUWOLF, Chies, LOPIPITI

Chief of Station,

Chief of Station,

TN°

i81.:1065

DATE

201-306052

13 July 1965

KUDESK ORPREY

Old Letter fron

ACTION REQUIRED

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO BIDDING REQUIRED

IDEXING CAN BE JUDG

/ QUALIRED HQL DESI ON

REFERENCES

1. Cleaning out some old papere, I ran norose a letter from I

(ooptes attaohed).

the busy weak they all spent in

and in sent along now to bring the

rooord more or loss up to date.

2. A batch of other materiale, which arrived through our poutal arrangement,

were turned over to TIPPAIT, and they are presumably now a pait of Headquarters"

records.

George lie

Attachments

Herewith

Diatributione

Ch101, KUDESK "/ att b/"

3 Chief,

wa w/att b

2 Chief,

AF w/att h/w

Z-Chiel, KUWOLF w/att b/w

*Chef, LOPIPIT tt h/w

7w/st* hu

•......

639:21

Excluded tres astentle

dowagraing and

Seclassificatias

5-3

• 21.

CS COPY

latt.

FORA

105 53

1802

CLASSIAICATON

SECRET

201-306052

PAGE NO

USE PREVIOUS EDITICAL

REPLACES FORMS

51-28, 51-284

AND $1-29

WHICH ARE DESOLETE

CONTINUEL

ASCI

---

## Page 154

TO:

Chief, RUDITA

FRO!& Chief of Station,

Dear Feteenback,

Attaohment to 0E.A 43, 589

13 July 1965

I'I pleased you have received at least one of my letters,

but I still wonder 1f you got a large envelope contairing three

letters which had been bed and returyall at once

As one of

the letters was rather detalled and dealt with matters of sose

Isportasce, I'n rather disconcerted - to say the least - tire

to think that it ray not have found its way to you. lbe envelope

measured & by 5 laches and was light tan 1r color.

tion of its receipt would be appreciated.

of course, I understood about the service,

the

not being a definite thing In any case,

I an not looking for

and that seemed to be one.

It also save me sonething to offer contacts o and would cave

strengtaened my position considerably.

as light as the

At present, I

J15

Emperor's new clothes.

Still no positive reply fron any

and the general silence fron my American "friend,In the States,

1s not very

encouraginge Here, the situation is much-better,-and 11 I ca2

1n good tire, after visiting

and seeinz soze contacts in

Imy position will be better,

but I still see mysel representing the

even sugsested that I do a short paper

back book for then, gathering together the conference docurents

With an aralysis.

All of this is better thas nothing, but it,

definitely 1sn't much.

On the other band. for the future,

who has been

here, Is returning to

to take over the

He has surgested that Il

for hing aster the

try to fei to

discuss future projects with

I am in

You well know what many

and

that

_Walle

at preseat, so there may not be much

that we can do with this arrangement.

This afternoon, I saw

He clains that_

has at the U.N.

about re and other ratters, but that

_was not convinced.

He says he did not know that I was inl

Juntil recently

our first reeting since the spring of 1964. Now, he

proposes that he try to set the

for ne. We will discuss the

matter again at lunch next konday.

It would be a fixed post

Jand I can't yet ray fathon why he is willing to suggest

me for the job.

He clairs he has not been in touch with l

cott 1 to 0ELA-43589

IS COPI .

201-306052

---

## Page 155

14-00000

DISPATCH

QLASSITICATION

SECRIST

PROCESSING ACTION

RAPES 2 FOR MORTIME

ChLor, KULISK

DO PADERS EQUIRED

INFO

COLY QUALIED DESE

Chief, KWOLF; Chier, M

CAN JOGE CHOCKING

Chief of Station,

ANCHORILE

SUBUECT

C DIDORIC/Operational

ACTION REQUIRE TERS

Kaoqunst for Inckground Antessele

Aotsen requestodi Paragraph 3.

click.

lo Carver Agent Fufus Fe RODIGAST has been briefed bul

ICPIPIT on an ad hoe basis to date rigarding information on the

Jos operational Interest to his handling and

guldanoe of

operation progresses, however, it 1a

ICPIPTY'& Intention that thoro handlingl

V1 booome more knowlodgeable

on the mbject of the

1, hincall,

as a mans to ensure the best possible operational guidance to the agent and

to provide anothar element of agent control-uperior knowledg.

2. ICPIPIT'& limitod Elles Inolude to basio documartas

Attachment to OPIN 630, and Book Dispatch No. 4463.

ke also have solacted

disseminations and reporte onl

would be most useful, however, rould be a collection of reports and aralyses,

whether overt or covert, discussing the following topies: 8)

Itha Enadguarters TPRANSACK o/o has had a file on this

I: o) the Individual

Jand their leaders;

d) operationa of tha

individually and

collectivoly, out of much centerg as

(at least up to 19 June 1965),

with, and operations out of. the l

oriented;

1 by

{) support and guidanoe of the

both

land

and selected fronts.

3.

We recognise that wuch of the Information on the above

mentioned topicu may not yot be collated, 11 indeed 1t 18 avallable; horever,

we should appreciate reoeiving from Headquarters such materlals as you feel

would best net ICPIPIT's operational needs in workingarithI

71. 01

special value would be a bibliography of overt writing on the subject, greatly

alleviating the security problen and mre logistica of bringing RODIGAST and

a large voluma of olassifiod roading together, In a paoure environmnt, over

aa extended period.

Hey Pachnich

Scur

matribution:

CROSS REVERENCE TO C/ISUMOLE

201-306652

1 BEEN SMAROL NO MONE

CZA 2613

GLASSIFICATICH

SACRIST

DATE VUL 9 1965

9 July 1965

MOS FILE NUMBER

200-126-79/3

---

## Page 156

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SBORET

PROCESSING ACTION

80

MARITO FOR MDENIS

NO MOONING REQUIRED

INFO.

Chief, HIs Chief, Lip Chief, LCPIPIT, Chief of

094,7 QUALIFIED DESE

Station,

Chint, KNow

FROM

Chiat of station

BNCROFILA

SUBJECT

JJAGUAR

Report on

11

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCE

Transmitted under separate cover 1e & JAGUAR report on L

15 June 1965 did not stato mhai the DOl vas, JAGUARe lottor 08 dated /1.

15 June 1965.

?. |

, 1E JAGUAR'O pATA 2 11, Bhould be L

The oorments contained in the report are either conaistent

with what

Ji has told us or consistent with whet l

110

supposed to have been tolling other people - sometimes both.

George H. KATENBACH

Attaohnente

(usc)

KUDESK #/att US

3- Chief,

WE w/att usc

e Chief, AP w/att USO..

2 Chief, ICPIPIT "/att usc

2005,

7w/att uSO

2-Chier, KUWOLF w/att USC

Eactaree moz synate

saragrading rid

cs Cori

15

7OSS REFERENCE TO

Dated

DISPATCH SYMDOL AND PALMET

0ET.A-43, 522

CLASSIFICATION

BICRET

DATE

20(- 306052

???.

2 Jaly 1965

MOS FILE NUMBER

L

---

## Page 157

. чу

SEGRZT•

• TC:

FRON&

Chief of Station,

Separate Cover Attaohnent to

014A-43,522,

2 July 1965

wohereCHt: K0a2e2421C29 223 2030

'""

901-306052

• :

---

## Page 158

"."p'"..

BINESAOS SCRA

PORAL CONTESS

SECRET

37

CA/CE

7767

6 APRIL 1967

I SACHITANSAS BALINGIATION

46 т

- ВЛАМСН

Дот зни 20012 3000

20- 306052

to copy

SECRET

[ICPIPIT INFo

.6 23 852

CITE DIRECTOR

90256

DTDORIC

REFS: A. OEPA 90

B. OELA 43237

C. ICPIPIT 0619 (IN 38606)

• d. CONCUR $ 100 PER MONTH PAY RAISE FOR

/ RECOMMENDED

TAX SUPPLEMENT WILL BE $70.

REF A. WOULD PREFER EFFECTIVE DATE 1 JULY 67. P

•2. TO SATISFY ADMIN REQUIREMENTS, PLS PROVIDE AMENDMENT TO

LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING REF B, REFLECTING THIS AND OTHER INTER-

MEDIATE RAISES GRANTED/ SINCE DATE REF B.

3. WOULD ALSO PREFER ABOVE RAISE BE GIVEN QREBONY /1 IN THE

PLS ADVISE.

4.. BELIEVE THIS WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TIME SATISFY

CLEARANCE REQUIREMENT FOR PERIODIC SGSWIRL, IN ADDITION;

OEVIOUS QUESTIONS, REQUEST HE BE SPECIFICALLY QUERIED $X

File

ESOAUMATAD OFFICERS

IS Got maMC-94a5 SECRET

401-516092

AURICA TENS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

COPY MOA

---

## Page 159

is 6

APOR IMITIALS - SEEN BE

8

SECRET

80

• ВаллоН

RID COPY

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 90256

7

RE (AL KNOWLEDGEABILITY HIS WIFE AND AMSQUAW^ REGARDING HIS WOFACT

AND OR INFORT CONNECTIONS AND (B) HIS ESTIMATE THEIR RESPECTIVE

ACCEFTANCES HIS

5. DISPATCH, ORIGINALLY PREPARED TO INCORPORATE ABOVE

CONCURRENCE, FOLLOWS WITH ADDITIONAL COMMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

.. =

Perei to

....

=

"CA/B & F

'E/BC/UK

CI/ICG

CHIEF, CAS

CHIEF, CACE

AUTHIIETICAYIUG

"BEGRE

• - REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PA...

ED

---

## Page 160

14-00009

SECRET

4 APR 1967

MESORANDUM FORs Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

EPT KRENCE!

V1 - NOC Amendment

OPLE - 1699, •1 November 1968

1. Effective I September 1966, the NOC ofl

vas amended to provide compensation

of $746.00 per month.

2. Please see attached reference for the salary breaks

down.

We regrut that due to an administrative oversight, thie

date.

sigred

Chief, CA Support GrOup

APPROVED:

CPD

Attachment:

OFLI - 1699

DDP/CA/Pers/l

Distribution:

Orig & 1

Addressee

1

- OF/APB/CARS)

1 - CA/Pers

(30 March 1967)

SECRET

..

---

## Page 161

1d-0n0d

MINIACE FOUN

fOrAs COPIE

70

SEC&BT

BOUTING ANZI/ON SAATLALS - SEA BY

2$ BARCE 2967

LILA NACARIANIA! ONSEMINATIIN

RID COPY

INDEE

NO ENDAR

fIBE

PISs 88 es 91a Me. 207-306052-

25

15 32'Z

CITE DIRECTOR 8 6 8 3 8

A 271)

DODORIC OPERA

15. 57.

RE ICPIPIT 0519 (IN 24277)

ABSTRACT X

RE PARA ISO REL, PIS ADVISE DETATIS OF CIRCUNSIANCES UNDER WAICH WINERROWD

ART SABA WERE MADE MINIDIG HOFACT'S CONTISUISO INTEREST IN

END OF HASSAGS

CA/LE

C/CA/33 - L

Lecord)

ecord

• CA/COPs

COOEDIALATTIRO OFFICER

and end

BE CR37

REPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CA/cE 55 Parch 1467

AUTIIINCATIAO

OFFICH

COPY NO.

201- 3oGe5

---

## Page 162

td-ioiden

FBIdi.

23

Mar : 67 (wesh)

Re:

no Bufile geven

Scrcrda

3H66

15-71

t Mora

---

## Page 163

14-00000

DISPATCH

SECRET

TO

DUFO

208

ISCISSING ACTION

RAINED FOR SEXIE,

NO M900NG REQUIRED

ONLY QUALITILD DESS

CAN NOG ROOTING

FROM

Chiate EuR; COS.

Chief, HOMIsE

Chief, ICPIPIT

SUCT DIDORIC/Operational

ERPREY.

/Institution Base

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

References:

A. LCPIPIT-8161

B. DIRECTOR-66211, paragrash 3

At their 15 March neeting, _ 1 and RODIGAST discussed

at least as a

aaper oxganization to allow him to aêt cloat to l

rather than

Vi feels that if not done right this could cause trouble,

because of usual organizational rivalries. Ho is thinking of

beginning by l

the statement on

which arpeared

the E December

He would use a pacudonym to sign hig statement, but would let

all his friends know that the pseucony was really hinself, and

he night usel

address. Perhassl

would agree to

circulate of print it. If this statement goes over.

could escalate into a small organization. He will show RODIGAST

a craft of his statement, but also will discuse it with

for "idoological purity".

P. P. CILIBERTI

Distribution

- COVIEW

2-CMOMUSE

I-C/BUR

2-00S/

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO MUNTIER

OEPA-164

SECRET

M92. 2.2 1967

DATE

20 March 1967

000% FILE LIMBSH

200-124-15613

---

## Page 164

ix57

DISPATCH

- CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

80

Chief, MOVIE

_ Chief, EUR

Chief, LCPIPIT

SURICT DIDORIC/Operational

/Salasy Raise for |

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

NO DROOLING BEGUINED

CAM NOCE LADENIS

PANCROFIL

At the time of his recruitnent in June 1965, L

V1 was told that ble

$600 monthly Car-free salary would be raised to $800 once he got a

71n a|

which of course was the goal of his planned summer activity in

2. Through no fault of his own, thel

assignnent (and other possibil-

suca as

I evaporated shortly thereafter.

Meanwhile, WOFACT changed

1to signalo and eventually decided to basel

Y1 in Europe targeted against

Individuala and groups in various countries.

3.

From the begiming.

/l has proved nore than satiafactory as an

agent.

lie has carried out assignnents given to his with knowledge and tact and

che proper spirit, has used his own Initlative as nuch as our guidance, aud has

not violated our instructions.

ño one will arque that ne hasn't proved to be

better thas ve collectively thought he would be, and in terns of fis oun

abilities apart from targeta which nay or may not be accessible to bin he 1e

getting better all the tine.

4a last year, about a year later than

V1 night have expected his

salary to go up from $600 to $800, ve raised 1e to $700.

He was pleased, and he

as not cosplained as nuch as he used to about a shortage of finds. (Presumably

- is responsive to the generally sood treatment he has had, to che

respect for bin as an lodividual and the appreciation of hie services; probably

he do carried along as such by his on personal satisfaceion in knowing he 1s

meeting requiresents and continually breaking neu ground.)

3• Fevertheless, LCPIPIT believes the tine bas coue to raise L

We can all agree that ve are still setting his

services cheap; L

to the prosined le receives no quarters, living allovance, or educational

allowance for his children. His increased gratitude, the rellef be will undoubt»

edly feel at belog able to reduce his present financial vorries, are nore than

north the extra $100.

(continued)

Distribution:

2-005 L

1-C/EU

CHOSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL APED POURABER

OEPA 090

CLASSIFICATIONE

SECRET

201

DATE

FEB 2-4 1967

21 February 1967

HES FILE NUMBER

200-23. 15672

---

## Page 165

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASSIIIATOS

SECRET

SPATCH S006 105-019889

OEPA-090

On If Headamartera apreet, thel

JORPURE (oboBe

1a this event).

V expressing ble pleasure at she a shit vened CREW could voice

terrai could vice to at eye d teeth onto nto go ape and oxes

P. T. CILIBERTI

40.

530

,USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

ICONTANEO

PAGE NO.

2 of 2

---

## Page 166

14-00000

017.798462

301

---

## Page 167

gov

fuded in

DEPA - 0006, 26/1/67, filed

lops.

---

## Page 168

...

DBB 71942, 25 January 1967 100-300-004

Abstracted from pages 38 and 37

9. At a meeting held on August 14, 1966, STANFORD mentioned that

Robert Williams allegedly has $1, 000, 000 available for the use of RAM.

NY T-10 advised on September 26, 1966, that STANFORD prior to moving

to Philadelphia on September 18, 1966, discussed RAM and ROBERT F. WILLIAMS

with him. According to tho source, STANFORD has alleged WILLIAMS has money

available for RAM.

During the course of the conversation, STANFORD stated that the contact man

between RAM in the US and R. Willlams' is one

STANFORD stated that

passes on messages from WILLIAMS and will be the

man contacted by whoever is designated as a courier to go to

Source also stated that he was told

(phonetéc),

was living in the

and was working out of the

to get the money.

(phonetic).

SEC C1

---

## Page 169

1d-0d0

0B$- 61450

a Reply, Please Refer a

File Dia

(IS) 105-93072

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTEST OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAL OF INVESTIGATION

MASHINGTON. D.C- 20535

BY LIAISON

-

Date:

To:

October 24, 1966

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject:

INFORMATION CONCERHING

A source of this Bureau who has furnished rellable

Information in the past recently advised that during the

Fall of 1966, a member of an Italian pro-Chinese Marxist

Leninist organization stated that one

was

suspected of being a spy for the Central Intelligence Agency.

According to this individual,

recently had been in

JIn the company of a female secretary fro Paris,

whose home is in New Rochelle, New York. At that time

remarked his travel and activities were possible

were said are me sue e italians things

According to our source, the Italian pro-Chinese

• a memoer of the central comnitte

of the Communist Party of Belgium (Marxist-Leninist).

The had indicated the Belgian pro-Chinese

communists would look into the charges of the Italian Marilst

Leninist.

CS COPY

SECRET

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

20/ - 306052

---

## Page 170

14-00000

Chess

& 74

€#14:

Cr./C=

47: T767

1A3E: 32 ELCUST 2956

BissEN Dr 30/3PER-

BREW: DIRECTOR

CA/OY 20 RID COPY

CIOA, CilOPS,

(CLASSIFICATION»

I SECRET

O MLE BIO

I FILE MES FILENO.

LESSACE FOR:!

TOTAL COPIED 34

S20R51

300-92:-150/3

HOUTING

5

2

3

O DESTROY D RITURN TO BRANCI

me: I Me EURB, AF>, CAZ, CCS3,

evIcz

, (HEFERENCE NUMDER)

i 17i5'Z citE DIREcTOR

32195

TO | ICPIPTY IZO

REF: ICPINIE 7338 (INI 83410)

DIDORIC

1o NE REF PARA 7:

DESK RIP L5T

BIS FOSSILE LATER USE AGATIST

_TARGDE.

FOR ASSESSMENT WITH VIEW TOWARD

DISCUSSION

WAS GENERAL

PROBING OP

ROLATIONSHIP AND ESTINE IXX HER PERSONALITY, MILLE

MAY

CAL

HAVE INFEROD POSSIBILIY RELATED OPERACIO:

FORCEANS COZISSION, KOFACT REP AVOIDED

SUGGESTING SUCH WAS PLANED MUCH LESS INTENT. I FACT, DESK HAS NOT DEVELOPED.

SUCiT DOTAILOU EQS PIAiS FOR|

OPERARION

GIVEN UNCERTAINTIES IN

DEVELOPLIG SITUATION ON GROUND. WHET AID IF CLER FOCUS SUCH OPERATION WORKED OUT

AND AFREED VITA

STATION, L

2.' ULTLE SUCH TRIP HENRIONED TO

TRIP WOULD PROSUVABLY BE FIRSI SIER.

AS PROBABLY USEFUL, EVPIASIZED TO

TERI VIGRAM IS TOP PRIORITY AT THIS TIE.

STRONGLY FAIL, HE SEOUID SIX

TIGET AND PLAY OUT THIS SIRING WIWEOUT PLATTIIG FOR EXIDYSIVE

ISNTiUS, PARTICI

BARLY AFIER HAVING JUST RETURNED FUS FELL MOLADY IDY, WITE VIDI TRIP AND

BOZE DATOTATE LIGER PATORITY TARSIS CLOSE DO ONE AT WIS TI, S

ITILS VALUE AD UNNECESSARY RISES IN OVEREXIZIDING HIM IN WIDE

SWINGS OF

1783 INDIRTS LITEREST.

THIS EVEN MORE THE FOR

GIVEN STATION VIEWS

COOTOINATIRE OFFICERS

SING OFFICER

SECRET

LEPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

488

ICE I5

PRONIBITED.

€00У »0

---

## Page 171

O FILE RID

D co twozz

O FILE TO CS FILE S9.

WESSAGE FORM

TOTAL

COPIES:

026A2

ROUTINE

6

ENI :

DATI:

DISSEM BY -

FRON

- PER.

O DESTINY I RETURN TO BRANCH

DIRECTOR

O RID COPY

SECRET

PAGE 190

TO

HERITES

NEPERENCE NUMBER

• CITE DIRECTOr 32/93

PER AJDA 1909 O1 NERD FOR LONGER SPAY, FTTA ACDONPAJYTIG COVER AND CONTACT PROBLEMS,

AND INDICATIONS OF I

EOSTILITY, NATURE AID EXTEN OF WITCH WE CANNOT ISEDIATZEX

ISSESS. IRS VERY SATISTIED WIE

PERPORLANCE AID DEVELOFIICNT SO FAR, WHITI

UIDERSTAID HIS TE DICENTAL IICLIAZION TO PRESS FOR ACTION I ASSIGINATES INVOLVING

TRAVI, LE SOULD DE ASSURED, II GESSIY, INT SUCH LUNS GROTE SD

AND & NOT ALHAYS IN BEST INTERESTS PROJECE DEVELOPMENT.

1'30 RE PARA 8: MILI, BE POUCETIG LONGER REPORIS 03 L

VISIT HERE WHICH

DELAYED BOCHISE OF PRESSURE OILER H03K. KEESTONLEZ RETURNED TO ORIGIIALS

FINCHL AND OIHER CORZESPONDEICE HE LIT, EUL SONDIIG COPIES WE END MADE 07 THESE

¡AND REPORIS EZ SUBTITISD ON HOLADY CONTACTS EY TRAISITITAI, MANIFEST 722028.

4O RE PAPA 9 REF:' YES. HE HOULD SIRO:GLY PREFER LIAI RAISE BE MADE AVAILATE

→ 10

HALCH VE WILL EXPECT ARRANGE SOON (AITEd

CLEARANCE Q ONS & INDIVIDUAI, "ED WOULD HAVE 1O BE CUT II). CAN YOU MAKE DIRECT

TRATSPER UNTIL THIS IS IB SET UP.

... - ED OF MESSAGE

CA/C023

A3//3:

(13 drast)

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OPPICE IS PROMIS

IT#D

CHIPE, CA/C

$90 m

---

## Page 172

10 8.00

SAFY TO FIRE NO.

PILE DIOD RET. TO BRANCH O

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE G

SECRET

PERSON/SHIT NOTIFICO

REPRODUCT ION PROMISITED

ACTIASSEM B43

ADVANCE COPY

LANS A T

I BARE

BT

mo Calot

L RID COPY

FILE VA, CAL, KURR, WHILS, BE8, SAVAZ, AET, C, ClORs, GICa,

alas, F, PilesTa

25 kas 6 0 83430

SECRET 251622Z CITE LCPIPIT 7388 (CILIBERTI ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO

DTD OR IC

1o RODIGAST

CR

VItOs AS SCHEDULED

23 AUGUST. BALANCE VOLADY REPORTING BEING POUCHED

AS WELL AS NEW RPORTS. O PLANNING TRAVEL PARI

BRUS-ROITERDAM POSSIBLY FRANKFURI, VIENNA 2-12

SEFT • ROD VILL MEET O ANTWERP & SEPT.

• 2.

IN LEITER TO Q

25 JULY FROM

SAID HOPES PE EUROPE LATER IN

YEAR PROBAELY GOING SWEDEN TO MAXE SPEECH. ALSO

ADVISED HE MAY TRY PUELISH

AND

. ASKS Q'S

HELP WITH DISTRIEUTION. ATIACKED

HYPOCRITICAL RACIST CUBANS. (THIS INFO BEING

DISSEY INATED) •

SECRET

C11R1C0 10r2e Cir 1as4 E 15315%

tie the the nested nobod

Sino Chall 1268

2EC123

---

## Page 173

14-00000

с дна ора

.. san

........

PAGE 2 LCPIPIT 7388

SECRET

3. Q THINKS ENTRY NORIH VIETNAM YAY BE

DIFFICULT AT PRESENT BECAUSE OF MILITARY

SITUATION AND PROBABLE NORIH VIETNAMESE DESIRE

NOT TO ENTERTAIN ELEMENTS OPENLY HOSTILE SOVIET

UNION®

SAYS

CAN'T GO

HANOI AT PRESENT.

TOLD

ENTRY WOULD EE DIFFICULI. GRAY IN SAN FRANCISCO

SAID HIS TOUR POSTPONED INDEFINITELY BECAUSE

OF MILITARY SITUATION®

4o AT KATZENBACH SUGGESTION O MADE PRECISE

AND

26: AUGUST WHICH KATZENBACH IN-

FORMING JAGUAR TO ALLOW SURVEILLANCE.

:. 5. RE DIR 26789, O HOPES DETAIN FURTHER

INFO

BUT

WHO OPPOSED TO TROTSKYISTS. Q°S STRATEGY IS

JAS RIFE WITH CONFLICIS AND

INFLIRATED BY TROTSKYISTS. SECRET

Tittie

sabee crue

PACKE:

---

## Page 174

14-00000

--=

SECRET

PASE 3 LOPIPII 7388 SE CREI

6. POUCHING FULLER REPORI @ CONVERSATIONS

WHICH @ TOLD KAMMERMAYER BY

INSISIED

HAS NOT

PHONE®

ACCEPTED

INVITAT ION®

7. IF NOI SENT, PLEASE CABLE DETAILS

HOS PLANS FOR @ OPERATION

_INVOLVING

DISCUSSED WITH @ AI HOS. WOULD THIS BE

IN FRAMEWORK @ VISITI

AND APPROXIMATELY

WHEN? WHERE DOES THIS PLACE

JIRIP,

NOT MENTIONED TO Q BY HOS?

8e ASSUME HOS POUCHING ALL @ HOLADY REPORTING AS WELL

CORRESPONDENCE.

FOR

: EXAMPLE @ MAS NO COPY LETTERS

FROM

ON

SITUATION WHICH SUBMITTED

KAYMER.MA YER.

9. CAN RAISE OF $120 IN Q TAKE-HOYE AFTER

TAXES EE MADE EFFECTIVE I SEPTEMBER? PLS CABLE

WHEN BEGINNING DEPOSIIS SO CAN NOTIFY @•

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 175

1d-0000

8 July 1966

j6 301-306052

Ense lo to infor you that there vere no additional traces des

I sun the Frold Stationa

trace sroo

]station.

Megative

Is file

201-306052

---

## Page 176

PROCESSING ACTION

80

ото.

From

Chief, KIWOLf

Chiel of Station, PIPIT

HO BUNCHING MOUKED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN NOCE INNOCE

ARCADFILI

ACTION REQUINED - REFERDNCTO

None, Intoration only

Attached herewith is the text of the Provisional Operational Approval

onL

1. An Operational Approval 18 aunited pending receipt of final

Agency traces which, ve understand have not yet come in.

Your attention 18

directed to paregraph 3 and to paragraph 5. ' The latter vill be the subject

et further correspondence 1a the future.

HOWELL. D. KANNERNAYER

Attachment:

FOA k/v

Dietribution:

018 # 1 - 008,

ICPIPIT v/atto

CROSS REFERENCE TO

60991

Extrim ten antone

Distribution:

I - RI so att.

.. 2 - Caco v/o att

DISPATON STARBOL AND NUMBER

0FX 1591

DATE

L 7 JUL 1966

NOS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECREFRYBAT

OFFICER

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

201-306052

OfFICE

CA/Cr

COORDINATING

OFFICE STABOL

DATE

OFFICER'S MAME

ĐIT.

7767

RELEBSIR

C/CA

DATE

6 JUL 1966

(do,

-03

* 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

DISPATCH

---

## Page 177

SEGRET.

• Hot applianble. The Agat 19 not in the status of a tom of sanigame

at v11l so exploited in his eurrent eparational sale as long as 1$ 1

ramble.

Do Site request l0 sot ser

ID. to relative 1a ustting far much energemey centert, nor 18 Benneste

end Ormonling Brunch Invalvenat appilonblo da this eaos.

2 1.

12. Apart has perved la to Ul, Are, 18 sot IS Elisale Dor Lodustles.

23 spora la not sitting not not clarable.

Do Operations Satanation

Tge of operation.

Duation is Indarinita.

final be conaldered

establemant, rether tha

Eo e8, Other than thana

Saltestst

ase to be made vitting.

& Locations

D3 Agot 1a to reaide ta

vith a poselore alterativo

The heat should be Bree to vialt

| as well es

and

aposalale to anticipate the tims or duation of mcs vialts,

Moles vill, borover, be at sto (ent our) castrel.

Ho spredal engo doms abala be able to contants lot appilensl.

So Approdentaly $, 500 $ 13,000.

Go at Espiseable.

SECRET

---

## Page 178

14-00000

iruaes

SECRET

..

Chdnt, CA/CT

SECRET

i"i?e

"ca !

---

## Page 179

14-00000

w.19e

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Plans

VIA:

SUBJECT:

Chief, CCS/NC

Request for Approval for Operational Use of

This nnorandum submits a reconnendation for your spproval pursuant

to CSI 240-6, 10 January 1963, paragraph 6, governing operational Involvement

SECRET

201-306052

---

## Page 180

14-00000

1.85078

the e 7093698394255 suspect

SECRET

2

SECRET

a to move day torn do toe

---

## Page 181

14-00000

--..

SECRET

arrangements or this purpose.

for CORD MIER, J8.

Chief

Covert Action Staff

RECOMMEND APPROVAL:

Chief, CoS/XC

APPROVED:

AA DOP

SECRET

---

## Page 182

1d-0000

-++

7

SECRET

27 JuN DES

MRISORANDUA YOR: Director of finance

VIA:

SUBJECT!

Contract Personnel Division

/1 - Amendment of Memorandu of

Oral CommItment

It le anticipated that a trip planned for late

numer or early fall will takel

Jinto

Inden-

nifiention in intended to apply to death or disability

resulting from alr accident, act of var, or for disappearance.

3.

Without being able to apecify the poasible circur-

stances, it in Intended that such indemnification as outlined

above be doned to apply to loss of llle or functions suffered

by L

Jas a diroct rosult of his fusilt relationship dur-

ing the trip.

Such ladennification, If made, must be presented

to his eidow by al

KUBARK 12-

volvement.

Bigned

CA Staff Contract Approving 0ff1cer

CA/PERS/

Distribution:

3 - Addressee

- CPD

-

• CA/Pera

I

. - CA/ Chrono

(24 Jun 66)

CF.*

Easterted trate arface!

terred ='w

SECRET

---

## Page 183

'?:

DISPATCH

CLACE FICATION

SECRET •

Chief, KUHOLY

iNFO

chief, KUDisK; Chief, Eu:

Chief of Station,

/LCPIPIT

SUBJECTY: DTDORIC/Operational

ORPREYIL

Photo ofl

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Ras/ =

_ 1 and Contact

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JIDGE INDEXING

ALICROFILAL

Forwarded under separate cover le a photograph of

_/1 with one

of his contacts.

Tallerari

Karen He LAPPARES

(ams)

Attachment usc

Photo usc

Distribution

-C/KUWOLF w/att usc

2-C/KUDESK w/o att

1-C/EUR w/o att

S/C ATID EX IT/AN

Dated 13 JUN 1966

I S/CATT

CROSS RER

15-37: 22 108

DISPATCH SYMBCA AND ALIBER

OFLA-3903

CLAIMFICATION

SECRET

201-

306052

JUN 2

1956>

DATE

1 June 1966

NOS FILE NUMBER

200-124156/3

---

## Page 184

1-651A-3703

19470

DIDORIC/ORPPLY L

To: Chief, *WOLF

USC Act to OFLA-3903

10366652

Photo: Do noT kend..

---

## Page 185

14-00000

my 14,00,44

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief

CA/ CF

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

AUMBER

SUBJECT

201 - 5:52

REFERENCE:

Your Yeroranda, Dated

10 PebruArY 1700

A Provisional Operatimal Approval is granted fry the use of this Subject

as set forth belo.:.

A Provisional Operational Approval Issued by CI Staff grants the sane

authority, on a teaporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in an Operational Approval unless otherise specified by CI/OA.

based, however, only on preliminar; file checks and investigation and is sub-

ject to a further final revies when all investigation is copleted.

(2)

Requirements passed to Subjeci will be confined, insofar as 1t is opera-

tiozally feasible, to instrictions ior the refinement and

comp'eveness of the reporting

he is capable of proriding fron his noral intercourse with source personalities.

participate directly and/or viitingly in she spottin; and/0r recruitar on otber agenta.

(3) In addition to this backfround, certain oi subject"s pasi siatesents ani

bebavior are inconsisten: with, and zire rise to an ancertainty about, ibe nature and

degree of his presen:ly professed notivations and lojalties. It is Impossible to

resolve this uncertainty with the snowiedge nou arailabie.

At the present time,

therefore, it is beliared that his bona fides have not been established to an extent

which would warrant handling hin in any say than "at arns lengea".

To process the Operational Approval, full Information (erapleted PRA

Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six |

(6) months from this date. An Operational Approral will follow shen all

Investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I

Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di

/8

(COINC IT PIO)

APPROVAL

8Y

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 125

83 #98

SECRET

DATE

23 May 19úó

MOTT 9

---

## Page 186

ContInuation 6E PCA - 201 - 360052 23 2197 1-900

(4) This case has been discussed in decail on severai occasions between

represeaiativus of CI/Ch, CI/ICG, end Ci/CE and there is aareezens that it is prirarily.

because of soject's lingound and conneus tizi i la si interesi and, thereiore, 1i

1a deltered setty nadia ve in dagese co sube solen ene lea to be deraved

(5) Folgeraph is recomended a least vace a year.

13/

HORUSE

---

## Page 187

Tat 1et.

...

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

Б. A4A173T

D8. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

SECRET

(Then Pilled In)

vour than.

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC.

SIDOL NO.

P. SOURCE CRYPYOUTH O. DATE OF INFO.

TE. DATE PROCESSED

TO. DISSEMINATED IN

"I- BATE

DOCUMENT LISPOSITION

89. TRANS

ERRED TO

#! FILE 80.

PERTINENT IYFORMATION

4- DATE

EVALUATION

9 Hay 1905

pod oa

002-336059

T75%

$/0A FOLDER

THE SUBJECT

THERE IS A PE

OF THIS 201

. i. .

ESTRACT FILE SUP. (18)

TEERS IS 1 IS MERCA

C1

C: E 22003 ON THE SUBJECT

OF TEIS 201

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201

30

867

SECRET

60

52

18-401

---

## Page 188

DISPATCH I

CLASSENICATIONS

PROCESSING ACTION

BLANKED FOR INDENING

TO

Cales of Station,

(ATTA, KATTEE)

INFO.

Chief, KNOW

NO MOCKING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFID DESI

CAM MIDGE INDEUNG

Chief of Station,

(LETIPT?)

SUNS IDORIC/Operational

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENICES

Muts OKLA 4525)

Io At his 6 April meting with RatICAst,

brother-In-In (the accountant) still thinka that

Iron an

undeclared for tar reasons

and the

I pointed out thet his

receives regular Inco

]eases).

norIvaT thought that 11 the brocer in lau finds thle story bard to

belleve he my guess that l

Jin really vorking for RUBARK and any have passed

Ants Intornition on to tbe l

Ine he would be the source of the story

relayed in reference.

So it the sume meting, on another subject, RODIGAST Bebed

he had ever told anyone poinchlan that he L

whether

He onld

tant ho never had. RODIGATT broke in:

"or the agent of ary otber country,

Including CDYCKE!"

said he had not.

Tren H JAPPARESI

Distribution:

2 • 005g L

1 - c/2

CS carr

CROSS NEFERENCE TO

plana 60a01

EISPITCH EVIDOL AND ILABER

CTA-3731

GASSInCAnON

SSCRET

201306054

Do 15t1

APR 1 8 1961

15 Apr1l 1966

MOS FILE MAIDEN

L

---

## Page 189

sortan

DISPATCH

CLAISUICATION

SECRET

Chief, sWOLF

cos,

FEL

Chief of Station,

SUBECT DIDORIC/Operational

CAPREY/

ACTION ALQUIRED - MEFERLNCES

NEC

AJD

COS,

COS,

Chief, We; Chaes, Nuursa; Cos,

Chief gif

CIe

VLSPIPIT

71'g New Contacte

PROCISSING ACTION

MARKED FOR SHOCKING

CRET GUBLITED CESH

1 CAR NOGE BROOKING

We are manifesting reports and correspondence concerninal

V1's per

contact,

Jage 31, born in

whose father's last name was

lier husband's name is

(Mexican), but she is separated fron him and he la sceking a divorce.

hurt her chances of getting a renewal of her passport.

2• Subject had been having a series of political and aporous affairs during

her stay In

and was in serious trouble when Q set her. After rejecting

Immigrant; Q befriended her, and he and L

Ta vanceeded lea, and he loud danger of being declared a mbassy ca

Embassy (who

had been having an affair with her) saw that she got out of

to weet her in.

(but in fact had no Intention of doing so) and later caught

up with her fol

She indicated a desire to work with Q (without quite knowing

for whom she would be working he hinted rather broadly to her chat he was in

cahoots with "our friends in the East," but it will be noted that in one of her

letters there is this disarming phrase: she warns his about how to deal wich

certain persons and adds: "je cool with then do not show your true colors (what

«ver they are)"),

3. Q seized on the opportunity of using subject as

and eventually agent on

an Interview on cape

hotel room which lasts about 2-1/4 hours, in which Q debriefs her on

her knowledge of every

whom she had contact, and in view of her attractiveness and willingness she kne

quite a few.

(She had some arusing run-ins with OOYOKE personnel 1o

we shall edit out of the tape only for a fee.)

Distribution

3-C/KUVOLF

2-C/KUDESK

2-COS/L

2-COSI

2COS,

2-COS/

1-C/NE

I-C/WE

1-C/AF

CROSS REFERENCE TO

MAR 3 1 1966

DATE

Gade 8

Encintes iron 277

8064°5. 57: 111

DISPRICH SYNDOL AND ALIBER

OFLA 3638

CLASSINCATII

SECRET

30 March 1966

200124-156/3

---

## Page 190

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

• CLASSIFICATION

•SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMERA

OFLA-3638

Q feels that she is enotionally unstable-his firuness in dealing with

her, his making if clear he was not out for ver body, have made him a guardian

and true friend.

She seems to be & good political reporter, understanding her

osm (confused) political yearnings and there her various contacts stand; ste

also seems to have a good memory for details.

Q says that her "anti-revisionin"®

Is Incipient anti-Communisn®

He could eventually recruit her as an ODYONE witting

agent, but that would take a lot of time and trouble; with such less effort he

could effect al

Jand indeed, he has alicady done this on an

informal basis by making it clear that he was L

friends.

She would undertake further assignnents for aim.

ie actually asked her,

"Suppose I asked you to go sonewhere, would you so?" to waich she replied. "If

1t's not cold." It is unlikely, however, that she would be able to return to l

because ofl

hostility. Wherever she goes, her main asset will be her

physical attraction.

She could be debriefed further on any point raised in the tape interview.

The ideal would be to have the questions by the time Q goes to in the second

half of April, but this does not seem to be a likely possibility.

Karen in ZAFFARESI

tar.

SEBRET

20,2

---

## Page 191

INTO

FROM

SUBJECT

DISPATCH

CASSIFCATION

SZCEET

Chief, KUTOLP

Chief, I; Chief, KUDESK; Chief, ICPIPIT

Chiet of Station,

DTDORIC ORPREY

Relations with JAGUAR

ACTION REOLKIED

REFERENCIETI

DESA SEA SINAT AND NO

07LA-15, 254

HEADGLANNTERS FILE MICA

200-121-156/3 AR 31 1986

DATE 30 Harch 1966

RE *0J - 1040 " CAS

ALAIKED FOR NDDUNG

NO POING REOURS

NETING CAN BE JUDGE

BY QUALFIED HQ DESK ONLI

kel:

2425, 2 Harch 1966

A number of lengthly and fruitful discussions have

been held with JAGUiR officers regarding our continued

" Their comments on the

quality of

reporting hal been reported from time

Similarly, we will not dwell here on the sechanical

arrangements we have evolved (with

agreement) to

expedite the passage of intornation to JAGus, on the one

hand, and avoid duplicate reporting (prinicpally by passing

sane materials as

on the other

Suffice it here to say that achleving both of these

both JAGUAR andl

Ique largely to the wide range of

is a compler problem.

Te think ve

have reached a nutually satisfactory arrangement for

achieving both alms.

What we are concerned with here, thes, Is JAGLAR'S

to our request

The set pirate ename the cattened

Jon a temporary basis white

Ive have no objection to this

provided we are kept fully Informed of as much detall as.

possible."

Сt5л!

#swaying ara

I219

JAGINA

'i intole 01-00614531

---

## Page 192

CONTINUA TON OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

COSTA:CA SIMACI ARS NO

OFLA-45, 254

1.

with

This, theo, reflects the state of our relations

JAGUA? as it relates to

He trust that this

will be of value to Headquarters and ICPIPIT in planning

Iuture.

George

Ковался

Distribution:

2-Chief, KUSOLI

3 Chief, 53

2-Chief,

2-Chier, LCPIPIT

.:?"

"- te trin

---

## Page 193

SECRET

29 Ja 1966

SHORAHUR JOB: Chlor, Ontral Cover Staft

BRIBES

Ao Caoral Faterntion

estictally been forsarded for

To previous request hoo

e Get so cares to comet to alted i to rets or

-1,

30 Astate at or it ba reso to to 10a 00 a stateso

remin there.

the

To Agut mes a coples of relatedl

amarated impllcations of facts

carter espect or ballere

So Agent 1e outablo mr for

Go Agent 10 evereens.

Profeet.

SECRET

2os fille

A45.24

-4=.

---

## Page 194

14-00000

SECRET,

I sen.

SECRET

---

## Page 195

Kronten.":

+ --

18l08 10

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND

CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

Do ANALYST

BATE POLITIE

88 FILE NO.

# DISPATCH OP SOURCE DOC. $TWO% aD.

6- DATE

T. SOURCE GIPPINVID. GATE de 19F0. P. EvAlgaTIon

Tr. GATE

DOCUMEAT DISPOSITION

I*~ CHOSE MERCED TO THIS PILE

PERTINENT INFOOMATION

200-124-156/02

201-306057

SEX M BOR Y

30 MAR 66

CIT?

nCC

SUBA POTS HIS FAMILY

SITUATION CIFFICUIT

ACAUSE

MOIST LEAVE

APT

JUN AND MAKES

LOT

UF DIFFEPFNCE WHETHER MUVF IS PERMANENT

FALLOWING LONG THE ACVANIACEOUS LEASE CR

PURCHASE/OR TEMPURARY. :

# 6605110149

FILE IN 201-30L052

FILE THIS FORM I* FILE NO.

#- 88

B6T 50e

SECRET

d9•00*

---

## Page 196

10

DISPATCH

Chlef, MUriolf

CLARTENICATION

SECRET

XIaK

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO MADELING FRIED

ORGE GUN IT HE BESI

CAN BUDGE DUDEXIS

LBUCROFILA

Chief of Station,l

QUICE DIDORIC/Operational

Assessment of /1

MOPPI PUS.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Ref: OFLH1494

1. Forwarded herewich is a 6-1/2 page answer by RODIGAST to the questions

in reference.

If any further clarification is required by leadquarters,

please advise.

Il cannot justify a $600 incone fron overt sources, and we think

ne cannot, he simply has no declaration to file and will be advised to so state

to the Embassy.

Attachnent h/w

As stated above

Distribution

3-C/KUWOLF w/act h/w o

• 1S Lond

CROSS T

DISPATCH SYNHOL APID MURABER

OFLA-3627

CLASSISICANOA

SECRET

BurE

MAR 29 100

5201-306652

29 Narch 1966

201-306052

---

## Page 197

14-00000

85510FL83677

CS GOri

-.-

201.3066'52

• ..

---

## Page 198

A wrasete

14-00000

---

## Page 199

14-00000

5010

---

## Page 200

14-00000

Are miste

7502006547

---

## Page 201

14-00000

Esis tras nemes

5

---

## Page 202

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 203

14-00000

= sono

7

intesi pur se

÷....

---

## Page 204

we sedan Patre arena: 1.

DISPATCH

Chiet of Station.

ACPIFTY

QLASSINICATI

88CH &T

PROCESS NG ACTION

MARCO FOE NOCENE

NO MOOONG REQUED

OUR Y GOALISTED CESA

CAM ANDCE ENDENG

ron Chief, KWOLF

SUBICAssesment of

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENICES

See below

It would prove very useful to ul: both as a contribution to the

preparation of the Project Outine now in progress and as a backgrounder for

possible discussions of

operational utt Azatlon--11 RODIGASE

could provide un with an Interpretive assesanent of him based on the

Impressions and judgements be has been able to develop over the past months.

We have sme such initial assessments, of course, and can inter more from

cument reporting. Horever, ve vould like to get the benefit of RODIGAST"S

unique and direct contact, nor that L

I has passed through a breaking-1n

Phase and settled down in a regular relationship which, at 1ta Inception, 18

certainly a difficult one for nost people to adjust to. le would suggest

the following outline of topica for RODICAST to follow:

Distibution:

2 = 005, l

CROSS REFERENCE TO

VICPIPTY

Distributton:

I= RI (201-306052

2 - CA/CE

cantimed

DISPATCH STUBOL AND MUMBER

OFIN-1494

Modestatoes nas

SECRET

OFFICE

CA/Cr

OFFICER

OFFICE SYMEN

DATE

CI/ICO

15 March 1966

201-306052

17 MAP. 1966

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-306052

OPIGINATING

TYPIST

1767

COORDINATING

OFFICER'S NAME

(in draft)

ABSTRACT Y

OFFICE STASOL

c/CA

DATE

7 MAR 1966

140)

rom 53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

DISPATCH

---

## Page 205

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

Erich ste

BECILI

DISPATCH GYNTION AND NUNSE

QF1S-14g4

NOWELL D. LANNEDER

302

1724

FOR 530 NEE PREVIOUS EDITION.

AAHINNICATIO

SE CAST

Elis

Estose 1:

201-306052

PAaR NO

2

CONTINUES

---

