# 104-10173-10075

## Page 1

104-10173-10075

.."•

DISPAIEN

RAGE

miny 3'k

MLo.т+(0818-86159

JUN 15012

"o

Into

troy

Subject

DOC.

chiot, 'n.

chlor. s8

14-6

cus,

i: chies of StutionaL

inlovin eo bo

julied by qualifius

i:13. dosk

5276-76/4

Action rogulrod

lay contact and benictine of kokien

for infornation

Referenco

A.

B.

31949

SIR 38507

Background Use

VANTO

Not Reproduce

NNO

1. Attoched herewith in Arthur J. Haroyis report of his controts

with MAurEliA copenhngen 3 and & any 1961.

Any 1201s comenta on thda odio will come sort ah

Ittachment:

report, as noted above

3 Lay 1961

Distributiong

A for fat

114-3

8/pJ

---

## Page 2

I piano

1E681

49

MICH-GANES

JUN 1 1962

chorational

1. On i and 1 iny kure was denin contactumicRo. SER.

and debricied by lthur Joiner In Coschhagen. Loth

minetircs took

aleer la tio "trand "otel" tiere caoy

rcristerci arain under -fe futS anne.

2o the arnitionn schriofinr, sho.ed thit

KiNter cannot hone, for the tino beinr, to obtain a third

Visitor's visa for convol to his rolatives in jingk.

vant visitca the jovict inbrusy on 17 prii and vas

cleanli told by a soviet consulat oricial that his

chances ros such a visa rcio practicolly non-existont.

se inquiser ulso about study opportunitics in tho

ussil but dia not recoive any encourn nant in this

respoct, oither. he has hid no further contacts vith

the nIS rc roseniativos in icnenhagen and has had

no indic-tion, even after his visit at tho soviet

Imbassy, that the sovicts wisi to revive contact with

hik..

Kine will conplote his last torn at

coponharon University intho tirot vect of June.

ninances nimitting, he would like to arend the

in Yuroslivia to ixcrovo his theoreticni kno:laigo

of serbo-Croatian. le has mio a tentativo reserva

tion on an erican-somerinn liner for his return

to la U.S,: on 9. soptenber. jorewhere botroon now and

this anto his plans to hairy his girl-iriend, iis

Freuniore 25, res. conenharon, Usterop edo 109/1,

but in view of their financinl situation she vill

probably not accompany hin cithor on his projected

trio to lujoslavia or his hore travel but will join

hin later. the will continun hor vort: et an architeot's

olice in copenharon and will sclo kink linancially

1I his trio to l'ugoslavia siould micriuliza.

1. In rier of the above developments and

kiter"s ocrsonal plan, there de very lliclo Illelliood

that any proiuctive situazion mi'it aovelon in tie

short tine toninint inco Airs ips

has evasomend and since th: mis has asde no sore to

the joviet abusay on 14 nil bubil

21.7:1

"ner deck that the case ors not

accent did

peter oction

10: 1:

14-6

...: lil'

tionanin :int

the or the lost three pars.

→1:

Encl.l.

22

ESSF1: 0:82

ES COPY

SPERAT

201-219786

3/09

---

## Page 3

"1"

• 1940%

jo linder thron circuretard the ninvionaly ro

munatel pretend do tinition ioc: not innoni necortr

an' lonor, unicos icaduurioro thinks that kordis rene

ea1 cruthfulneas should be cotablichod, do snectric

aguirnnents have been riven or iro contonlated for

Krer at this store ind no further prearrangenents havo

been modo to 300 kureR arain belore ho lcaves conon.

heren. Ho was nerely instructed to contact us noaln,

usin; the orcviously crience: co: unication lino /lotter

(PHTS NIPNIE)

11f a/ he should be

commere in irone during this surer,

b/ if ho should cone serous intercating contacts het

won the sovicts and the vorcien or annish stuients in

Bonenharen, ii the RIs should seck to cotablish con

tact with hin after hts return to he U.S

'instruction is to get in touch vith tho cbI imodiatcly.

6. Kanton himsolf unreared very willin. to re-

doem his "provious mistakes" by any action ve s00 rit.

A thorough rovic: of nis contacts with tho IS aid not

brin' out any contradictions with his confossion nt tho

firat meetinas and shoved no indication of continuod

is control over hin. -overthelos his bon fides havo

clearly desecraned.

this Bloul be kent on

recora lor the cront that at a Inter stare kamei minht

becone again of chasicai interest or Ii he should

apply for a position withthrus covurmont.

Additional Inionation on KiNths visit at jor imbassy

visited the soviet bassy "irot on

11 noril, but wes told that it was a holldav end that he

shoule return on 17 pril. On 17 april he vas receivod

by a soviet oriicial, tron: he had

seen in the bassy

onco bofore but cose nanc is not knon to hir. this

officinl is a heavi-set nan, are 35-10, aporor. heirht

5°16", athlotao build, dar: blond or liht broin hair,

round, neity fece, lull set of teeth, loud voico, e

specks Gorman but does not know danish. Kiter talked

with hin in tussian, inon kates inovired abo:t hig

vica, tie oificial askid ain then he actually could

liie to visit his uncl?.

sen kirtie, old hi: chat ho

thour? about june or Juli, to oricial inscriù that

such a tion acter could not beg i rided in

chort tire ar: this 1:

rheal ic ii sot serr :orth

me..811ê.

iasiulo unde. chin existin

tient he had quce icon reinera dchi ranin at a las

---

## Page 4

14-00000

88 180:10:

in dot croouras min

i.:.."

50607-

ince tha coaverrorion. ent.

late dade do one wee co banDa cans to

Ichur!" ircicenually,

corede wadiCaCY liu not 650g:: 1011 of jo:" / 30

¡horosho o rur ocarilyn/.:hen krira geod " Iron

sorict did not reset in any

ray and disissed form nitiout any explanation

of

his crustien renart. In Antas prinion, the coriot

Ces obvious Trailiar with Kissi's dossicr and ner-

haos ranted to let hi! knot tro accurl reason lor

turinin. corn his vis application.

MiGneR on CANNes contacts with oviets in to LES?

tried stated that at the mecting on 11

and 18 soril he had lorrotten to nention an opisode

thnt had occurred at his first cri! to the is? in

19:8.

wefore ho left,in dcikoy suve hin tro marlish-

dunquare bocks, one about mericir anecdotes ind the

oter unroeiioreà by kmeras cll an two bottles of

whiskoy. -e asked khm to tresmit the books and 1

botile of whiskey to one /inu/sizzler,a nenber oi the

stafi of "oscow lews"

to call up i"

mumbans 808-10 to -ct in touch .ith Siler. Te

second bottle of whisker uns to be iven to same s

uncle -s a present. On his return fron. inck to

couchlogen sher spent threc days in lioscow and stayed

at the "etropol". so renonbered ."NACiOVs -cquest,

called lp -1xI22 and

was visited by the latter at

the hotel. kine transmitted the boois and 1 botzle

of chisey to sario.

the latter asked his ii Kite

mas incerested in rritin® a short arcicle for the

'l'oscor reis" about his inversions in insk. kar

arrecd and roote about tro hanitten pares, statin:

that he had been

rather faverably inoressed by that

appered to be a very rust prosta ani :cconstriction

or the city of i insk. julIa? accepted the erticle,

cave Kite SCO subles as " fos,ond prozised to send

in the articlo more to be

puvliched. kade sigoes a reccint loi the zoncy. io

did nit receire iny cooy and docs not 210: wither the

article sis ever isod. -ill amcared to be aù 6.at

sion 3 coustache, nin or suild.

vas dishor a icorian or enem belieres that he

•m 570:03 nlish

flucntly and innie:te

Chat ne lair: also several

'a'sea 0do.eat a98

-ted mati.

- coriood til until alls very day

he doon not tool chnt doe

61n 10.00n8.

---

## Page 5

rnicp.nri.

father in the Inucer's business.

intormn hi:: that sio 1s iting stoos to brir oud her irother

Iraès unclo in sinst ofcicintr tone: Us., bus KANeR

1e not sure shutor she is thintin of t tomorry visitor's

vian ur a perment tri ration viou. at uny rato, she ing

maic out afridavits or support ior hor brother.

11. KiNse reailimed that he mas nevor a mombor of

any orcanization, excent is e boy, then he joined the dec

Caucts. In the cistrict in which

hc rew up,most of tho

proplo vero of "nocressive vious", but his varonts took

arcat care to kcoy his out of this environment, send hin

to a lebrew school,and in senoral took grout pains to

educate him in traditional values. joth his varents and

ho hi: solf were considered and consider thenselvos anti-

comunists. uman's decision to study russion was entirely

his oin and

nrimril: dictatoo by his desire to

leain nore about the country of oririn of his paronts

and to onter a field which had nothin'to do viti businoss.

He has never felt attracted to business or coney-nekin

occupations, an attitude which has caused some conflicts

In the past betteen hin and his father..

revier of notivatich

12. KenToR reitcratca that in 1957 and 1958 he

did not consider his contacts with iiyaciov as illicit

or conflictin; with his loyalty toraris the us. though

Kit rACIziOV told nin to bi discreet abou their contaoto,

he alleredly told his friands in Conenhazon that he was

neeting, him. id las varucly avare or the direction in wiich

he las boing pusiod, but since he har'a stron? desire to

did not provide to kisY.CiuoY any "sub-

versive intornacion", ha did not focl that no had over-

stenged the bountarios of the nerrissible. aurthernore,

iRYC.NOV prubentea all nis renuests lor vritten stric

cones and incoration about kailas inaily, bacizround,

ani trierdo as prereduisies for the issuence oi a vinitor's

visa, and kanibcliered that this ma ruite consistont

sith what he had heard about

thin sucoiciousnegg or tho

13. In lettin: both ii rhood mud Intor sake

helirve tiat

"to cos nue onuorge to be ariendo ilon cho

oricus" in ri Glouchi to bo vory closer anu silliill.

S1611

---

## Page 6

dal, 00061111

ni: win desire one co been the ivor pon tos turther

nis seni-shirica sion cho vssihe maint-ined the coa-

tict riii win rev and later Mor iy/.co.lov/ oniy

reluctantly mai only brecuso he dis not mie to cause

any trouble is sis relatives in tie Lssa,b.oich ,os

KAntaR narlos,one ol' his IS conticts ever -ide any

clear or inlice thrects that lis relativer sould surer

if ho did no: collaborato, In fact, the only soviot sho

attenyued nicor presaure an Grorcly localov. He told

routes once bit if he did not collaborato, no visa for

14. twin adnitted condidly that his desire

to study dro Russian lunquage wes so strong, in 195c

1950 that ii at that tine tho joviors had

ortered hin

an onportant to atichd a soviet university, le would

huve accented, even it he has boch discourered by tho

citrorities: corever,nruci his experience in 1959

ho allereal! chnnged his vicw ruaically and just waniod

to be lore alone. .ich all that, kuti could not provido

a logical are Tousille explanution why ho did not cone

to the u.5.

authoritieg and resort ercrything. then

questioned -by-niney rether sharply on this point,

becane caotion. and stated that "if he really wanted

to concoal anything ard if le thou ht that he was still

doing that the soriets told him to do, ho certainly rould

have mabbed tie oscortunity of costroving, his passport

and simply deny tat he had been in the Ussi in 1959".

15. in retrospect, kime bolieves that ho chile

he had been vors naive in the borinnint or his contacts

with the soriits and the NIS, he did not really engore in

any subversire activitr",did not cunaly any valuablo

nforration to them and did not coult anytains con-

'lictin" with his loyalty as 2 la

citizen. do

expressod the serret that he was now unable to prove

his vorth.

16. as stated abovo, turn's behuvior and

ractions durin: those list mectins insearcd to do ite

consistont with his choractor and did not indicato an

existin? Is control. do volunteered hingeli the some: ant

dang-ine cadition itom on his contico with sidlai and

the prynent io=

on article wich mes obviously a brot t

Sidini

0 1C3

SECRET

---

## Page 7

+37464

testa dinsato dracio

separi

CERTE

con ol 113 UneLO

1 19. 1/ 2222 2 0232, 3r.0 300;

KoieRi s cosin, odilest

11inius. cech OulY Onco Ly KaiA. •: 1y & vI livcly

Inatricual, not overly cuneated, but chresd end anparently

cinable in his businosa. noliticn) in his vlovs.

and 13 crobabiy coranod ilso in ninor block-niket attrirs.

nio vife is a torcher in a socondry school ind ruins

1000 ruüies per nonth: sher rosido in a not housin" aroiect

in: inste, precise anirear unknon. Monan #rossice connleürt

"soniletka", ne vas in military sorvice a lor.e.

time and reached tie ranl: of sergeant. sogpletely spoli-

tical in his vione, se l: an e:cellent chess playci.

c/ Yovenix daTiCk, are 58-40, husband of

"s aunt's daurliter iron her forevious meriaro, ind ;e

in a crininal court,alle cily tho only jeviai juage in the

entire byclorussian sor, but his salary is noiost, only

1500 Imbles in 19:9.

se is probably a Comunict and a

party menber, but In 1958 or 1959 he vas critleized in

byolorussian nowspaners for hnvins passed too lenient

senterces in soue crininal cases. lergenty alkoV vas

extrencly carciul in his low contacts with knuè during

the latter's vicits in jinsk and nover ongared in any

political conversations.

d/ Cricoriy ReZI:INOV, brother of tho above,

age 20-28, 1n 1950 vas

in his last year of paysics studios

at the iniversity of :insk. Kakel had only a fow casual

contacts with hin, out ne introdncou koure to sone other

youns sous in jnskone oi the above or ans other relative

dxocets to travel ibroad. Kin docs not inintain any

corresuonience with thome

Casual acaualdiancos and cortacts in tre U342 1n 1933/58

•- 116. a/ vladinir "Jolour:"/ 2068: 4,900 35

on incerine stuent dü wr universit: in .inal, 30 corkou

un non roctery in inc: ut nint snirts. ala

iation ins the rive uinuitetion oi trin- o.c

Jejon chairen of Polinos la tu : velorusaian 35?. Volodva

ros not a co:dist anu vid not c0o: an: interest in soli

•... 1f.:..in.

ine timet

musondo In liro ho live. .6a rumidory di ild. Ino' univer-

---

## Page 8

1d-0d0d

7

male the inve conti neer to

nia ocü tl:0.

aile he sas not e "atllyara"

ar obvicuser vorà his lutheado me inlily cloco to it

nucliad 80v2a6410s.

¿ sover'l other your people, belon:in to thin

sene aroup, lilose banes tinto dees 10s licolloct and those

nuin interosts were jnz% musie, dancin,,'irls.

cranslator at the niorobile lunt

in sinskyn pretty asburn

oi riodiun noicht,mor kanice sot throud tho other: youn

poonle in surmor lord.

incy had a short-lived lovu niinir

which

ended even before wink as ericllod fron the use:,

BINCO

he discoverod that she sloot with several boys.

irina's rather nuct have had a cood besition, sirce the

lanily ormoi a personal car. irina never rave amir hor

Inct nans but did not show ruch curiosity for his per-

sonal broiround either and did not tir to olicit iny

incornation irom him, though she cirplayed the u51a1 curie

sity los the life in the US. and wostorn..uronc. In her

work she trinslated inalish terinical

jorrnals. the spoko

inclish fairly well but preferred jussich. she

COld KANTR

that she had been in czochoslovaria mi onco mentioned

that perms she rould be sonetines ablo to cone to Don-

mark as a tourist, kanice mot her rather l'renuently in unc

and July 1059,nt loast once a reek, but us invited to hei

of his with his relatives, kid hardly ever

talked policies with the above and did not moke any arrante

mentr to kicep in touch by mil afer hir dovarture fron

the üss?.

Coreral intornation on : insk 1: 1959

19, is commed with 1953, the luildin activiting

in 1959 Tere very Intonsive, prinarily bir blocks of housin

projocts, the hotel " inste" vas coroloud in life vevoirl

housin, areas and sono new buildins were auded to the

university.

c0. In 1959 sone city discrick: seill hit no

1019/419

al, In 19r9 there tere

меренон

---

## Page 9

1,.ts.1

10519

no accirdle mile he never me a irtion lin crinal

•Inarersion 1is

und that life must be extrerely. hard.

c3. In alcition to the universit, there nro soveral

tcchnical institutes, out siren ind no onvortunity of vi31-

tin then. in rencers that ho once narred by i buildin?

witch nouses a nilitary

research institute / "rovenno-

nauchny institut"i, but without a may ho vas noù ablo to

describe lts location.

21. the linck CVIl is located obnonito the school

no 25 or 42. It is housod in tho suno buildins, -s "militsiya"

and occuntes several ofricos and rooms on the first floor,

roon numbers 109-111. Iù hes a very snall staff, 2-3 male

anployncs and 2 fonales in the "rogistraisiya".

25. Rather large military barricies are located on

tho grushevskays alitsa. They can ho:so ut loast a division.

28, the Jewish cormunity of illnsk is considered the

larsest in tho bunlorussien us.?, but

nust have sarunk

consiáerably since in II. thero

1s still 1 vory srall

synagogue, which is open and attended by older poople.

intl-senitisn is not felt by a visitor, but local dows

told kinor that in the lest yours of stalin's lire there

serious excesses and that cunor. circulatod about

a nasa deportation or the Jewish nonulation to sideria.

/In 1958 kaiñe encountored a jewish student in leningrad

who told him that evon now cortain carcors are closad to

Jer's(such as dinlonatic servico, filitary schools leading

to higher ranks/•

27. smon? non-Jewish people took heard in 1959

sone rather arising rusors: ho vas esked repeatedly

whether it was true that sisenhowor, cockereller, f.f.

organ, lord were jewish, 'hen ho deniod this, ho mot

vith considerablo scoptlois.

28. Kiwoe ins asked ii he hnd any soviet litter.

still in his possossion, but the only thin? that he could

find vas a tolley bus tickot jattached/. lo his best re-

collection he has not seen any telophone dircctories in

any public alace in iinsk.

Current

i loads in covenaaron

20. Kansa's curvent contacts mith coralen and

annish students. are alle edly ruitr linited, beonuse ho

his fiance occur his ensire troo tino, die ondy con-

crote locus or possible intrrest arc:

SACHET

---

## Page 10

have li

Upd.

no ca centurnt de lesson and

excase solent mod pot her viet

oxtendod nilo

stayin: there until mecomber 1960. She linu been

mutilan rot it loust a & yours and hno now a vojo: jino

coland of the lancuajo, cho Iivos in ilillerod,? joven

hu:in suburb preoiso addross unknown. jor future nlans

are. unlcror.n.

1136 StURE

are 3i-00, nossibly st1ll in , oncom

but que baci soon, probably at the end of tho curreat

roll, as lenloo an eichanco aterent and hud his tis?

alno extendni while soill in the lison, lic 1s a techer.

do has boen in the isor repeatculy as a suide for a travo?

oranization /inter.aclonal lours?/. ic his been airdring

usni: los a long tine, vanish national and citi:

c/ 155 sure longo 22-13, 1n senoral considored

a youn and nocivo co:unist or at lonst & bronouncod

fellor-savolor nears to be in craniaor and ls vory

the sussiarlenguago elub, "Snutnik", lio has

boen in ionintrod and has sone trionas thoro, but ho

has not studied thero, ddross unknown.

a60 40 plus,

coaches dussian lanenáre courses ior borinnerg. Used

1n :0500w.joro incornation

1s urocaoly conbained in the Copenhagon University ca-

0/055. SEURCE

1.:

dents.

I/ awaR has no social contacts with the above

and knows thon only casually from the sinvie Institute.

so, divin; deteruined that the late case vic

• schts no current

nove bech cade alrendy in 1989, thrn It was first broucht

so-tho attention of t.ie

sash 141-6

---

