# 104-10105-10223

## Page 1

104-10105-10223

PANCECCOY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

Bishan

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FRCH AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

Tinarpastor Ant

DICLASSIFICATION

ZEPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

2

AT:

Use Only

Soilot Reproduce

Fil. Werbell

S54 2K

FIAN

C/FEY

TION NO

24

÷ z

PER.

_#_

ARRED.

oza, ve 5-3

FILE, VR

C/IP/AN, DDP, ADDP, C/FE/UNO 4, C/FE/LOC 2

c/CI, C/SAVA,

D/SECUR 4

_c/SOD 3

(13

ET 121148Z NOY 71 CITE

18-5

24725 (SEGERQUIST ACTING)

ERECTOR

VIENT IANE SAIGON

13-25

¿USAT SECUR

OF: DIRECTOR 88114 KNOTAL)

12Nov IN 487962

MR. MITCHELL A. WERBELL, MILITARY ARMAMENT

CORPORATION (FORMERLY AN ELEMENT OF WERBELL'S GEORGIA

ASED FIRM OF SIONICS WHICH REPORTEDLY WENT

ANKRUPTS, IS BACK IN BANGKOX AITEMPTING TO SELL HIS WARES

MACHING PISTOLS AND SNIPER RIFLES). THE REF MESSAGE CITES

HE FACT THAT HQS HAS 'A LENGIHY 201 ON SUBJECT (201-259910)

NO THAT HE IS CHARACIERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, A WHEELER-DEALER

ND A PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES.

HE HAS ON OCCASION

LLUDED EITHER TO BEING AN LLUTE REP OR HAVING LNLUTE BACKING.

8.

SUBJECT MET WITH SEVERAL LNCUFF OFFICERS ON 5 NOV

1 AND RELATED THAT HE WAS AITEMTING AGAIN TO INTEREST THE

HAI GOVERNMENT IN PURCHASING HIS PRODUCIS.. SUBJECI CLAIMS

C BE PERSONAL FRIEND CF. AIR CHIEF MARSHAL DAWEE AND THAT

IS SAMPLE WEAPONS WERE CONSIGNED

TO DAWEE IN ORDER IO BRING

NEM INTO THAILAND. V

30

SUBJECT ADVISED LNCUFF THAT GEN. KRIANGSAKE

ORDERED

SECRETT:

20E0 di diBich

89938522-

---

## Page 2

AICE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

(When Filled in)

DEGLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

3

8

& RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

•EM. BY

FION UNIT

PER

FILE, VR

TON NO.

18-5

NGE TWO

24725 SECRET

NE HUNDRED

MACHINE PISTOLS AND IWENTY SNIPER RIFLES. HE

_SO INDICATED THAT HE HAD MET WITH H. S.H. ADMIRAL DISKUL,

HISF AIDE DE CAMP TO HOM. THE KING AND CLAIMS HE WILL SELL

ES MACHINE PISTOL IO THE ROYAL FALACE GUARDS. FURTHER

LAIMS KE WILL HAVE AUDIENCE IHIS WEEK WITH H.M. THE KING.

40 FOLLOWING MIS CURRENT THAILAND VISIT, ON 16 NOV 71

UBJECT AND MA.. JASON MO STONE (201-095998) PLAN IRAVEL

NOM PENH. PLAN TO CONTACI MR. LADD AT PHNOM PENH. . ACCORD-

2 LNCUFF SUBUECI PLANS CONTACI CAMBODIAN MIL. AUTHORITIES

D3 POSSIBLE WEAPONS SALES. SUBLECT. HAS ALREADY DEMONSTRATED

TEMS FOR GEN. POXSAMAN IN BANGKOK.

5. MR. JASON

M. SIONE IS HEAD OF BANGKOK BASED FIRM

= ASSCCIATED CONSULTANIS CORDANY LID. HE IS CHINESE, WHO

ORKED WITH WERBELL IN SEA DURINS WWII. SUBJECT NOW REPRE-

ENIS BELCIAN ARMS FIRMS AND

IS REP FOR PILATUS PORTER

INCRAFT •

G. FOLLOWING PHNOM PENH VISIT WERBELL PLANS TRAVEL TO LAOS IN

PILATUS PORTER, PROBABLY WITH STONE•

TO DUS RESTRICTION ON PASSING DEROG ON U.S. CITIZEN, 24

ELIEVE BEST APPROACH TO FOLLOW IS CAREFUL ADVICE TO LOCAL

SECRETOra

---

## Page 3

NCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

RACHUCED FROM AURORANG

(When Filled In)

Manhanathan her

DICLASSIFICATION

2

RIPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

6

4

M. BY

ON UNIT

PER.

N

F

FILE, VR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do No steproduct

ON NO.

18-5

GE THREE

→ It

R4725 SECRET

THAT SUBJECT HAS NO OFFICIAL LNLUTE RELATION.

O CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED IN ANY BUSINESS DEAL.

ECRET

GP- 1

* E/S APPARENTLY WRONG REF:

-...+ 4...

-.-........

SECRET:

:.."

Fide dien

----i-

.---.....

---

