# 104-10113-10254

## Page 1

104-10113-10254

SECRET

: 5 APR 1968

VIA

8031 C9808, 862/15

CRI1CO Of BECUTItY/AlLeS ARSadI Utass

Resuiat 1gs illes Desuaaratlon 80s

1.

secerdanse vith frollainary ocaverbatieng 03

botweea

E/W/A,. and M1ca(

aod 13°3

TOD/AD, It do roquested that an

erdinary

pasaport ba lanuod dn tho neo of

JURA IIONIGO ILISOIDO ROBARO IOT ALCTII11Y'O uSO tO

travol fron the Unitod Itates to Argentina and roturu.

In calltlon, 18 10 requented that an Arrival-Departure

Looerd (IlrS Forl Ill) la prepared por sabjeot:

3%

The requeatod passport mieald coatela s

Wnited btatca nultiple ontry tourlat vion ard aarohor

shouisg enery into the Unitod Otates vin Ulenl, Vlorida.

da carly Apzal 1008.

Inolusdes of the

Otatco vion ta Cubjcot'o passpest uilflnot offead hia any

cs I60o.

Tha folloniçj Infematicn obeuld ba inaluded ca

the Fern I-dd to la Iropared fer Bubjeat:

10

=.

aruenoas Eddrcra 1a

SECRET

CRONE 1

Enciaded Irea asfomalle

domagradins and

dacjassliicaller

Sita

---

## Page 2

SECRET

• 0.

Antoipated nedvers in the united States,.

Arpart Interracleant Fotol, Man! Inter

nablesal Alipert, Mead, Plerlds.

the Chief, Allen Asinirs Daff, 01110e ef Beourfty, "he

vill Do hope infermod ovory tine the passport 1o badng unod

Ice travol fre en to the United Utates pilor to entt and

poentry to the Unfred tates. The infermaties vall Inoludo

Flight mber, date and plese ol departure and reontry.

The Alien Aff0189 Btail has been requeated to provide

For BI do Allas.

Theres ins

m111e V. De

Chiol

Teatern Elephare Divislea

SECRET C

---

