# 104-10413-10299

## Page 1

104-10413-10299]

*,

Revered

SEPRET / KAPOK

Pure t

ExTRA COPY

AH to HIMMI 21434

28 May

63

PROJECT REVIEW AND PROJECT OUTLINE (PARTS I AND II)

CRYFTONYN

INDEAT

CASE OFFICER.

NIARCOB

STATION

MEXICO CIYY

HIRE OF STATIO

ILLARD C.

Writter

Spray

163

SECREN / KAPOK

---

## Page 2

13-00000

PROJECT LUPEAT

manor nova - for July 62 - May 63

I. Produet of the Project

A. Soviet Coverage,

Erniect IMPRAT has not provided coverage of the entire Soviet offleial

Installation In Mendeo City since 22 June 1960 when Frojeot ITKNOY

assed this responslbility. This freed LlfAT to provide, with 1ts

untlateral coverage, home phones of selected Soviet offloials which

could better support not only the Station's CH effort but also other

Station operationa against the Sovlet target. In this effort, LIFEAT

covered the homes of fou of the more notive Soviet Intelligence

Officers statloned in Marco during the reporting perlod. Samples

of the operational Inferation provided by ITPEAT follem:

HPY-6479, 15 June 1962 Merloan Wirners of Sovlet Scholarships

to Patrioe Lammba Univeralty)

FMMA-19836, 21 Septenber 1962 (Tranenittal of LIVAT Report -

Vladttan I. SAUCKETA)

INMA-19839, 21 September 1962 (Transmittal Of INFRAT Report !

Aleksandr G. SIDEROV)

EMNA-19879, 28 September 1962 (Aleksand G. SIDOROV Tatiaya

SOKOLOVSKAYA)

INA -19996, 12 October 1962 (Soviet Persomal Assigned to Mexleo

city)

B. LIVAT has remained a primy nurse on this target throughout the

past project year. Further, LIPAT Information 1s considered a

frultful source of operational leads by the responsible Case Officer.

Selected examples of the valuable Intelligince product derived fro

the Polish coverage are:

EРA-19500,

3 August 1962 (BOCHICK Telecon)

НИНА-20896,

15 Narch 1963 (EXNAVE Status Report,

HMMA-19552, 10 August 1962 (BEHAVE-EBCHICK)

ENM-7270, 14 May 1963, (Polian Ambassador to Mexico to Present

credentials to Haltian Coverment.

SCUREX / КАРОК

---

## Page 3

13-00000

OLGA

/ KAPOX

16 02e

C. Yugostay Coverage

LIFEAT coverage of the Yugoslav offfeial Installation In Mexico City

has proviced a wealth of information on the contacts.

activities, and

travel of members of that mission. Since the Station's effort against

this target was greatly increased within the last year, ITFEAT Infor

mation has been used extensively to provide the basie operational and

personality date necessary for this atapped-up progran.

Examples of

LIFEAT produced positive Intelligence and general operational informa-

tion on this target are as follows.

HMM-19311, 10 July 1962 (otivity of the CP of lugoslavia In

Mexico City)

HIMMA-19344, 13 July 1962 (Yugoslay Embassy Mexioo CIty)

HMMA-19653, 24 August 1962

HNMA-19609,

24 August 1962

EMDIA-19973, 9 Cetober 1962

•oter 1902 (assay rares)

ENNA - 20016,

11 October 1962

HDM-6993, 8 February 1963 UProjeoted T

Yugoslavia of

Em1110 Portes 011)

• HMA-7005, 8 February 1963 (Plan of

to Visit

Yugoslavia)

HN-7011, 12 February 1963 (Posalbillty of New Nextoan-Yugoslav

Comeroial Aid Treaty)

HVA-7106, 19 Narah 1963 (Yugoslav Project to Promote Boonanie

Relations with Akrico)

EDA-21005, 29 March 1963

nut 632o, 21 vay 1963, Plan for TIto to wign Men Madem-Yugoslav

Cultural, Agreement During his vialt to Maxieo)

Do Caban Corerate

During the reporting perlod IllAT coveruge of the Cuban target was

direeted toward the support of KIBIRK operations in thie field and was

not designed to provide positive intelligence, LIZAT covered a total

e 10 lines in direet support of operation in thia flold.

Most of

the product of this area of operation was forwarded by cable to JAVE

and Headqurters. Lamples of pouch com neations in this field are;

HNNA-20032, 16 Ortober 1962 (ANTRUT/LTIRAT Coverage)

E04-20308,

4 December 1962 (ANSTRUT).

HHNA-20125 (28 Deeember 1962, (Jose ORDOQUI)

SCENET / KAPOK

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

430:

UN. A2

E. Amerioan Conmnist Group In Mexico (ACAM)

As noted in past project reviers, most of the targets in this group

have been eovered at the request of ODENVY, and the raw take has been

processed by tham. During thepperlod July 1962 through May 1963

approximately 390 reels of take were passed to the local ODENVY for

their processing.

On 23 Auguat 1962 the local ODENVY advised,

office feels the coverage mentioned 1s quite valuable and many useful

leads are obtained fron this coverage, partioularly with regard to

• Typioal examples

of reporting based on ITIAT coverage of the ACt are:

HDMA-1953%, 10 August 1962 (Albert MALIZ, Noal SEBORER, Charles

SNALT.)

HMMA-19678, 24 August 1962, (Albert MALTZ-Margaret MALIZ)

HMA-I9TT), 7 Beptember 1962 (Albert MAIZ and Charles SHALL)

EDMA-20937, 22 Maroh 1963 (Albert MAIZ, Noah SEBORER, Charles

In-21299, 7 May 1963 (Charles SMALL, and Noah SEBORER)

V. Exile and RevolutIonary Aotivities

During the past your this area of activity, in addition to the already

noted Cuban coverage, neonted for the greatest perentage of the

IDEAT effort. Mout of the Information provided by IDEAT In 1te

coverage of targets in this a me not avallable fron other sources.

While Coverage has been provided on spaniah Republien, caterer,

Costa Rion, and Mlergn mies, the bulk of this prodnot be

resulted tron the coverag of

and varles of

h1s asquaintenses, the "Emke" being forwarded to Hendquarters and Station

Quatemala by olther velly onblo sumeries or Immediate action cables

when arranted

It 1s noted that the sovrage has bem most remarding

In the one of

and the recent coverage of Judith FiRITO Segure.

Baiples of produotivity in this area:

EM9-6452, 3 June 1962 (Contaste of|

in Mexico))

EM 6499, 22 June 1962 (netivities of

EMHA-19499, 11 Jaly 1962

HI- 6565, 13 helv 1962 Qleeting Between Fernando

ENNA-19805, LA September 1962 (Coverage of l

IDIY-6780,

9 Detober 1962 (ArriVal 13 Mexico of Inadine.

IU-6914, 25 Jamunry 1963- (Appointment Between

and

SCURET / KAPOK

te warr

---

## Page 5

13-00000

62027

ЕСЛЕТ / КАРОМ

EMM 6935, 5 January 1963 (Planned Travel of

to Venezuela and Santo Domingo

HNM-6936, 15 January 1963 (Travel of Ilo.

EMM-6937, 15 Jamary 1963 (Planned Meeting Between

and

HYN-20835, 5 March 1963 (Confersation - I

and

HИMA-21059, 8 Apr1] 1963 (Judith FERRETO Segure)

HM4-7160, 9 April 1963 (whereabouts of

EVA-21007, 16 April 1963 (Judith Frano Segara)

EIMMA-23338, 10 May 1963 (Judith TERRETO SenIa)

ENH-7330, 24 May 65 (Contacts of

1n Mexico City)

C. Counter Intelligence Information

Mexioo City Station's Related Mission Directive places greatest

emphasis on operations 1n the CI)CE area. LIFEAT was able to provide

a contiming nothile contribution in the attainent of the Station's

obleotlves in this field. Coverage Included that on ARGINaRATS,

(who acts in the capaoity as covert liaison link

between the CP and the Soviet Embassy), and & PCH sale house.

addition to the contiming operational support in the CI/CB fleld, the

following Informational reporting was provided.

ENM-6626, 10 August 1962 (Soviet Scholarship for the Daughter of

David Alfaro Siqueiros, Impristoned Commmist)

HN1-667, 24 August 1962, (Mextoan Dalegntes to Teahnienl Movie Congress

In Mosoon)

1420140; 6 November 1962 (431352l and 2

M-20722, 1 Me 19 CAREERATE

EMNA-21109, 19 Apr11 1963 (Dr.

I. Operational Support and Leads Provided other Station Operations

During the past project year liAr contimed actively supporting the

operations of Mexico City Station through the production of leads and

the providing of Information en selected targets in the manner avallable

only through the use of a unilateral telephone tap operation. Indeed,

1t 1 1n this area, secure support totthe Station's operations,. that.

LEAT 1s of greatest and unfque valve to the station. The following

18 a lot of selected contributions by LeAt of operational support

and leads provided to the various Station Case Offleers and Station

operations as a whole:

SEBRET / КАРОК

---

## Page 6

13-00000

5

ITFEAT/Soviet: The valuable assistance which LIFEAT rendered Station

Efforts In this area mas amply displayed in Its support of Station

assets nounting a tocinical suveillance operation targeted against

the home of a knon Sovlet Intelligence officer stationed In Mexloo

City under offlelal cover. LIPEAT Information provided vital Infor

mation which enabled the Station to establish a pattem of setton

of both the fantly of the Soviet offleer and his maid. This Infor

mation made possible the setting of a time for the actual entry Into

the target, and contiming coverage (Ineluding Ilve monttoring of the

target line Imediately preceding the operation) by LIKAT made

possible a degree of security for this operation which would not have

been possible without the support of s unilateral tap operation.

Further LIlAT coverage has, in addition to glving Information on

the dally activitten and contaets of soviet officials, provided an exe

cellent cheal en the contacte of three KIBARK controlled double agents

with their Sovlet Case Offloers. This coveragahhas enabled the respon-

sible Case Offleer to guide his operations with Increased assurance

that his agents centime to be fully cooperative and under his control.

LTEAT/Cuban: LtRAT setivities In this area were concerned primarily

with suyport to the Asthur operation.

Coverage of reletivas of

ANSIRUT-2 provided an excellent "window" Into the operation which

enabled the responable case Offloers to move with more certainty

and security in developing his operation. The Case Offloere Involved

considered the LTIAT coverage an essential cheat on the activitles of

the principale in the case which was espeelally valuable during the

intial stages of the operation. Travel plans of ANSINUT-2 provided

by lut more also cunte to the timing of the operation Also

In the Cuben aes LIZAT coverage of 0-2 agent enabled the station

to gain an insight into his contacts and aoltvltles.. Further, recent

Initiation of coverage of a Cuban ComerolAl Offlelal gives evidence

of producing solld Information of commercial transactions and Mexican

Comereial contaets of the Cuban Government.

ITPAT/POlIsh: IIPRAT contimed Its coverage In the FKHAVE/TCHICK

operation.

(See previous project reneral for background of this case

and the IDEAT participation In 1t) of great Interest to this operation

NAS LIPBAT Information Indicuting that the wife of ERIVE had become

ware of his interest in another voman, and Inter revelation of reasalen

ment and travel plans of EskInü?.

SECRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SEGRET / KAPOK

6

ILEAT/Tigoslars In addition to the usual information concerning

the Yugoslav officials and their dally contaote and activitles,

IrAt provided leads which oould pay off in future operations.

One example was & lead which revealed that a diplonatlo courier

would be travelling alone and taking a new travel route while

carrying an official pouch. With this early warning, the Station

was able to plan an operation to provide nocess to this correspon-

dence. Although Headqarters finally vetoed this partioular oper-

ation, mufficient early varning was given by LIFEAT so that the

operation could have been carried out. Another example of this

type of lend mas the date avatiable fron IliAT coverage that a

new looation was being sought for the Yugonlay Embassy, and which

speoifle locatiens vere under consideration. Arned with this Informa-

tlon the Station has been able to make a teamieal casing of one of

the prospeotive altes and obtain Information necessary for entry into

the other sites.

LTPAT/Ixile: As noted prevlously, IIEAT coverage of the extle

netivities was the single mfor effort by IT'IT during the project

year. In partioular, LIMAT Coverage of

which inoluderd lungthy periods of "Ilva-monitoring", on occasion

onlled for coverage of five lines, Cabled mumartes of LIPRAT

Informatien mre provided Headquarters and Station Guatenala.

18 belleved that the Importance of this LIFTAT soverage can not be

#treated too much, LIFEAT Coverage of 1 Conte Rican Coummint extle

resident In Maice City has lead to s malth of operatlonl leads

Initing the discovery of this person's envolvement in a Cornist

funding mechania. AlSO, IPIAT was setive In covering the Spanish

Republion antle commity In Mextoo City dring the CHIDEAL vialt

to Nextoo, MusAT covers: in this case ms considered nevesary

to ruveal tunedimtoly any renewal of an earlier planned attempt on

the 11fe of an ODIE offlelal by one group of the Republiean Bdles.

Ultinately, LILAT revealed the departure fron Mextoo of two of the

ringleaders in the plot.

air/c/cis At headquarters request ll resTage was established

on a former stora agent those past sotions give for son suspiolon of

his present notivities. Produet from this line has revealed an effort

by a group of this individual's friends to discredit the sinior DACID

official In Merleo. Early warning by LUlAT has made possible the

preparatien of counter notion (see IMM-21364), LIVIAT has also

provided coverage of a suspected RIS support agent. This coverage

had provided the background material necessary for cheoking on the

activities of this sumpict agent. Contiming ITMAT reporting on the

American Commnist Group In Mexico (ACCh) has provided ODENVY with:

great quantities of Information on activities of leftist friende of

CODET

EGRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SEGRET / KAPOK

7

of the ACCM Including their travel plans to Mexico and in sone cases

Chaba.

As noted in paragraph 1. B. above, the looal office of ODENY

conniders this coverage "quite valuable", As añso noted in previous

renerals, INVEAT ability to give the interested case offleers & chech

on active and former agents inoreases the surity of present operg

tions and provides greater security for long term assets who my have

been In contact with now terminated agents.

H. Conclusten

It is the opinion of the Anloo City Station that the support previded

other Station operations, the CI/CK Information and leads, and the

• ability of the unilateral ITtAt operation to cover senaitive targete

without revealing Station interest to the llalson foroes, vell Justify

the expenditure of finds, time, personnel and soorty rist. As it has

been noted in the past, that evemwith the Station's envolvement in the

parallol, but llafson-type LINOY oparation, a change 1n attitude by

the present

or & change in

Jonld end WHAt prelation In that Male project.

For that reason, ILIAT, in addition to mintaining its present heavy

overago, must be available to one again undertake coverage of the

offloial Soviet and Carch effleial targets in Marico City. Therefore,

IXFEAT's present orientation, thoughhtoward supporting Station operations

and CI/CE wlanton rather than terard targets which would provide posttive

Intelligenes, Joves 1t renily avallable for recall Into the soviet

Caenh coverag

It is the Statien's fire opinion that the LEAT

project provides a substantini and vital contribution in Iulflinet the

several priority objectives of the Station's Related Miasion Direetive.

I, There In attached & let of the Ills produced fron LIVAT provided

material during the perlod July 1962 through May 1963, as a by produet

of the project's peine reponslbility of providing support to Statia

operations.

It. Progreas of the Operation

The objectives of the LDTAT Project are of a contiming nature and

are therefore not considered for fulfillment during any elven period of

tine. For this reusen peroentage figures as to completion of project

objectives carnot be dram. Hover, an Indieation of the coverage

provided in working torrd fulfillmant of the objeotivas can be noted

In that approdmately 12,500 pages of ran text were produced in the

period July 1961 through April 1963. LIKAT has been in dally opera-

thon during the revier period with the average number of lines covered

per month being 18, and a high in Oetober 1962 of 25 lines covered.

SICRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 9

13-00000

8

III. Planning for the Future

As was indiented at the time of the last project renewal, LITEAT hopes

to remain uncommitted to coverages that require the expenditures of

a great portion of LIFTAT resources but provide coverage of but one

target.. such as Soviet Embassy coverage.

It 13 added emphatIcally,

however, that should the need arise for LIFTAT to again assume such

responslbilltles, 1t 1s fully able to do so. Untll such time ITPEAT

will centtme to enjoy greater flexibility in the employment of 1ts

assets, especially in the areas in unich the Station does not wilm

to reveal

In the Ilkwvor operation.

V. Expenditures

Approval for renewal of Project LIFEAT was granted 8 August 1962 for

FY 1963 in the amount of $99,000.00. The proposed budget for FY 1964

18 broken down in the attached Meld Projeet Outllve Reneral Request,

Part II, and totala$83, 408.

i rope.

Va. Status of Comitments

There are no comitments other than those doted in the project outline

sumitted herwith and in the Individual contracts and oral agreements

(mmoranda of oral agreements were fomarded as necessary) of the

SEGRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SEGRET

Lond

1 KAPOK

Even with the operational emphasis of the LIFEAT Project being

on Station operational support, it 18 thought significant to

Include a list of HMl's produced through lay 1963 (approximately

10 months of the project year) as a by-product in the LIFEAT

operation.

ENM 6421

6452

6479

6499

6565

6605

66

66

6780

6914

6919

6935

6936

693%

6993

TO

05

7018

7106

45

7160

7310

7330

SECRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET / KAPOK

FROJECT LIFEAT

PROJECT OUTLINE, PART I

1. Area of Operations

This operation is run from Medoo City Station and is concerned with targets

located within Mexico City.

2. Purpose

The purpose of this project 1s to provide, unilaterally, dally Information

on the notivities of offlelal forelga Installations In Mextoo and the personnel

thereof, as well as coverage of the activities of selested individuals and

groups in response to both Station needs and Headquarters requests. Presently..

LIAT stresses flextbility of coverage with support of Station operations and

CI/CE coverage receiving the greatest emphasis.

3.

Background

Profeet ITERAT was origtnated

I on 3 October 1950 as a intlateral telephone tap

operation.

Aetun Initiation of operations inder this authority occurred

on 18 Jamnary 1951, and the operation has run contimonly from that date.

The project was opened with the installation of a single tap and has grown

In the past eleven years to coverage of as many as thirty lines in a elvan

month.

The ILKAT Project 1s a untlateral operation completely Independent from any

Liaison arrangement.

It is staffed by KIBARK contraet employees with the

majority of personnel being indigenous controlled agenta.

During the past trelve years, Project LIKAT has produced more than 97,000

(estimate) pages of operational and intolligence Information in direst support

of Vexleo City Station's specifle objentives, and contrtbuted materially to

the intelligence gathering astivities conneeted with the soviet Satellite

Bloe and more recently with the Cuban representatives in Meleo. In addition,

IJIAT has been of considerable value in monitoring the aotivities of the

Amerton Commist Group In Marioo (ACIN), as wall as the antivities of the

exlle groups and local Communists.

With the LIENOY's assumption of coverage of the Soviet and Czechoslovaktan

offiotal Installations In July 1960, LVEAT assets were released fron contamous

coverage of these two targets. Those assets vere then employod la direct

support of Station operatiens i role ideally vulted for & intiatiral operation.

such as LIRAT, and extraly important to the seourity and suecess of Station

operations.

SECRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 12

13-00000

10127

Д/ КАРОК

*. References

ENMA-19129, 1 June 1962 (ITFEAT Renewal Request for FY 1963)

HMMN-10803, 31 July 1962 (LIFEAT Projeot Renemal)

ENIA-19641, 21 August 1982 (LITHAT Progress Report, July 1962)

ENNA -19843.

€.

EN9A-20156, 8 November 1962 (LIVIAT Progress Report, September 1962)

HMMA-20251, 28 November 1952. (LIPEAT Progress Report, October 1962)

HNNA-21080, 12 April 1963 (ITEAT Progress Report, February and

March 1963)

5. Objectives

To Identify Soviet and satellite Intelligence persomel in Mexieo

and to provide Information on the nature and extent of thelr clandestine intell-

gence and propaganda

ottles in Mextoo....

To collect Intormation of the Satellite offiolals both as to their

activities as vell as information of biographio nature.

To support specifie station operations, especially in the recrultment,

defection, Commnist Party penetration and counter-intelligence fields.

d. To colleat information on prominent Merlean Commundata and pro-

Commists and thetr activities.

® to collect Internation on prompt commises, other than rem

actve in hered, and to scentury then and their associates and sottites

Iº To colleet Information on extle groups and Individuals astive In

Mexico.

To provide coverage of targets of opportunity in Madeo City 1n

support of Station objectives and Hendquarters'a requests.

6. Targete

For objectives a and be

• Solest sovlet Intelligenee officers bose phones.

bo Boleeted Satellite offlelals office and home phones.

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET / MAPOR

12

9. Selected private phones being used by known and suspected Satellite

Intelligence persomel,

For objective e:

Selected telephones as requested by Station Case Officers In

support of their going and/or projected operations.

For objective de

* Telephone conversations fron residences of senior

For objective es

Telephone conversations from residences of knon American Commists

residing in Mexiee City.

Far objective Is

&. Tolephone conversations from the residences or offices of prominent

sale leaders or their contaets in Medeo City.

For objective ge

Telephone conversations which can be monitored from targets of

opportunity.

Case officar - Jeremy I. NIARCOS

Supervise the operational and administrative aotivities of all

LIFEAT personnel.

Maintain avarmess of and provide direction in all matters pertaining

to the operational menagement of the INFlAT Project.

0. Provide guidance and day-to-day supervision of special operational

phases of LIFEAT coverages.

do Coondinate Information received fron the IIFEAT coverage with other

Station operations, and coordinate as necessary with the Stationppersonnel

responsible for the parallel IlENVOY operation.

SECRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 14

13-00000

*I went

SHERET / KAPOK

13

→.*, Matntain IDEAT capabilitles for mounting operations against

targets of opportunity.

I. Maintain supervision over basehouses, equipment, and training of

personnel assigned to the LIFEAT operations.

8. Coordination

• Information produced by ITPEAT, primarily & Station operational

support asset, 1a Closely coordinated with other operations of the Mexico

City Station. No operatlonal coordination 1s required with any other

geographleal ares, but they are advised of any Informtion produced by LIFEAT

which may be of interest to tham

Projeet IINOß which supports the prinoipal "outside" Case Officer,

David 1. Wilbist, ts effected in coordination with Frojeet Ilia.

O: coordination with the parallel, but 11alson project - 11v01, 18.

closely coordinated between the responsible Case Offloers of both projects,

particularly relating to the divialon of coverage beteen the two operations,

thereby armine that the milateral LITAT operation w1ll not be andangered

of the LlENvoY operation

d. Although there 1s no direct comection with the recently activated

IT operation of the Merida Base, LIFEAT experienoe in untlateral telephone

tap procedures and espectally security and provering of Information, alded

Cos Morida In settingmp the LlUlK operation.

9 Personnel

a Carer and Contrast Agete

(1) David I. WILBTSD (201-009195), prinaipal "outside" Case Offloer.

(2) Wayno C. DRABAND (201-255095), outside assistant to Davia l1.

WITTED, IRAEAND was Introdueed Into the IIFEAT operation in November

1961. Hlo DA was amended 14 November 1961 to provide for his use

In this operation. Hls tour 1n Mexleo has recently been extended to

November 1964.

(3) IIBERACE-8 (201-111616) uns Introduced Into the ITFEAT operation

a backup tecinioian to WILSID. He was notively employed in the

tearnteal phase of the operation during the home leave period of

WILSTED In December 1962 and January 1963. Since ITKHBRACE-& contimes

with his normal funotions under MICHARITY, he will not be funded under

ITHAT aroept In the event of WIlSID's prolonged absence or Incapaalty.

LTEMERACE-8's OA was amended 7 Apr1l 1962 to allow his use In LIFEAT.

SECRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SIORET / КАРОК

14

(4) Carol K. ZINSMEISTER (201-117963). LIFRAT processor/

translator and former basehousekeeper who can be recalled

for temporary reassignment to basebousekeeping dutles.

(5) 01ga A. PARKNINK (201-117973), LIFEAT processor/translator.

O1 fOr LIFEAT employment dated 28 september 1954.

b. Field Agents

granted 14 December 1953 (201-117971)

granted I Dotober 1953 (201-117743)

granted 16 December 1953 (201-117744)

See Olga PARFINIK - Contract Agent seetion above

OA

granted 21 Ostober 1954 (201-117980)

OA

granted 31 March 1955 (201-11952))

granted Z1 Apr11 1956 (201-117984)

ITFRID 10,

0A

granted 13 September 1956 (201-114085)

OA

franted 2l Augut 1956. (201-113595)

LIMsED-12+

OA

granted 6 August 1956 (201-113569)

LT SUD-13,

CA

granted 13 September 1956 (201-115833)

LEEDD-15.

0A

granted 19 Jamuary 1957 (201-126315)

OA

granted 2 July 1958 (201-222786)

LXFEUD-18,

granted 2 Cetober 1957 (201-185370)

(17)

IJVBUD-19, OA granted 18 May 1960 (201-262488)

(18)

LIPID 2, (Pormerly LILTILY-1), amendment of dA requestod

24 Apr11 1962 (201-288344)

(29)

LIVRUD-23, (Pornerly LILITIN-2), anendment of OA requested

24 A9-11 1962, (201-305604)

(20)

(21)

IXPRID-24,

• granted 21 September 1962 (207-179525)

LINEUD-25, OA granted 3 Jamunry 1963 (201-532535)

(22) IJPEUD-26, POA granted; Ol requested 31 Outober 1962 (201-532335)

During the past project yoar the following personnel were dropped

from Project ITFEAT, for reasons noted belon.

(1) IJPEUD-14 (201-117972) and IlPEUD-17 (201-185370). This couplo,

having «perienced & namber of apparently Insoluble mrital problems, mutually

deeded upon separation and eventual diverse. Since their use in INFRAT (as

basehousekeepers) would not be pesaible with the breakup of their home, they

were terminated an of 30 Septenber 1962, Termination vs effected on a

mutually agrable baste and no snority problem has arian to date, nor is

any expected in the fature.

СЛЕТ / КАРОК

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SECRET / KAPOK

15

(2) LIFEUD-22 (201-288248) and ITYEUD-23 (201-305604), son and

mother, presently occupy the INKRODE photo basehouse and were never

directly envolved In LIFTAT type work. It had been orignallly planned

to use LIKRODE basehouse as the terminus for the LTFEAT/ MKTRAP

technioal operation targeted against the official ITRODE mission in

Mexioo City. IJTEUD-22 and 23 were to have been the basehousekeepers

for this operation. When it was found that the MIRAP operation could

not be routed to this basehouse because of teahnloal considerattons,

the base was employed as a photosurvelllance base targeted agalnet

the LITRODE miasion. Since this operation 18 not comested with

LIFEAT operationa or personnel, these the agents will no longer

be carried under the IlitAr project.

(3) IXPEUD'27 (201-332331) was granted a POl on 20 September 1962

for use as an alternate IliAT basehousekeeper.

However, due toa

ohange of plans envolving agents's avallablllty for ITBAT WOrk,

she was never recrulted and this clearance was cancelled on 25

Jannary 1903.

10. Operational Clearanoes

See Seekion 9 above.

11. Cover

There ars no changes in the cover of personnel who have been previously

employed In the LItAT opration. With the new agents employed since the

last project renal, cover 1s as follow:

=; ITIEUD-24 has natural cover of manager of a mil profitable

medieine distributorshlp in Mexico City. Subjeot's office

hours and antivities are therefore not scrutinized by a superlor

and subjeet can devote the necessary time to his ITFRAT duties and cover

his KIRAT salary without diffioulty.

D. ITEUD-25 has natural dover of houserife (Wife of LTFEUD-24) and

mother.

She performs her LIFEAT duties only in her home (ITFEAT

ANNEX VI).

IPKID-5 has natural cover of the wife of a retired businessmn

(TED) A NVION Of LIT persornel Illes during the past

year revenled she had been inoluded on her husband's olearance

request in 1953 but had never been granted clearance in "ber

on right". This was corrected when on 3 January 1963 ITMBUD-25

was granted a full al.

SEBRET / KAPOK

---

## Page 17

13-00000

/KAPOK

16

12. Contact and Communications

Dally contact is maintained between the Case Officer and the agents employed

In the projeet.

These contects are made in & clandestine manner with varying

patterns established for car plokups, foot contacts, and emergency meetings.

fre arranged slgnals are employed in setting and accomplishing the meetings,

When heavy or bulky material is to be passed, meetings are hold at night.

Entrance to the basehouses by other than the basehousekeepers is made only

on the basis of strict necessity, such as need for equipment runaly installation

for new line coverages, or line coverage out off..

As to agent recontact arrangements, there 1s little posalbility that project

LIFEAT could contime to operate in its present form in the event Merleo would

becone a "denied area" polioe state. It Is posaible, however, that certain

of the presently employed agents could be converted to straight II funbtions

or support agent roles. Recontact can be effeated by mentioning that the

person recontaoting the sgent is a friend of "Ingeniero Stanley" (title used

by David N. WILSTED with LIFEAT indiganous agents) and mentioning the IRAT

work the agent previously engaged In with "Ingeniero Stanley". (This recentaet

method has been laid en vith-the LUTAP Indigunous ngurte.)* Emergeney.

commication prooedures have been developed which apply to the prement

operational enviornment, and are reviered periodioally by both WISTED and

the responalbile Case Offleer and are updated as necessary.

Telephone contact concerning the projeet and with the agents 1a kept to a

minimum. Pre arranged open code is used for phone conversations between

Case Officers and agents.

Those syutens of contaet and commmloation apperr suitable for the project

and function adegnately fron the security and utility standpoints. Locations

and times of meetings are ruviered perlodienly and are changed frequently to

decrease the posalbility of arousing the suspieions of the residents of arena

In which metings are held.

97307322

13. Control and Motivation

Control and motivation are primarily based on two factoral ideology and

finanolal gain. A secondary factor 18 the fear of reprisal from the looal

polloe should discovery obeur.

14.

Seamity

During the past profest year there were no ineidents which were beyond the

capability of the pursonnel Innediately Involved to Isolate and remedy

Irmediately. In contrast to previous years, there mas no instanoe of

telephone works erews approaching a basehouse to check or remove the tap

Iines ruming to that basehouse. Some of the

made in the telephone

CALL.

KAPOK

---

## Page 18

13-00000

--.

KAPOK

17

have been removed by the

workmen, but these are of no

danger to the operation unless a full Investigation 1s made of one of

these unusual comaetions. During the past project year no such Investigation

has been undertaken, and no suspicion of the ITFEAT

has been revenled

to dato.

The greatest dangers faced by LIFEAT in the past year centered on two

developments: 1)

the continued efforts of the telephone company toward moderni

nation of the Mexteo City telephone system and 2) the lovestigation lunched by

the Secretarla de Communioaciones y Obras Publioas (SCOP) to determine 1f the

telephone company has not been providing maximm ponsible servloe to Hexieo

CIty residents by bolding fron use cortain "spare pairs" of every cable and,

dIstribution box.

In the first development (which has been in process for the past few years

and was so noted in past project renewals) the most noteable inaidente which

effeot ITIAT seourity are the Installation of new underground cables re-

placing the old overhead telephone wires (thereby reduoing access to target

I1nes and tap routing lines) and the Institution of a more effloient system

to keep traak of datly assigamnts of the

(thereby

reducing the nobility of the two ITFEAT

has managed to somewhat negate the first of these by

However, there is no way that the tap routing

line can be completely concealed when It 1s run from the terminal of the

telephone sable to the basehouse Itself, With fever legitimate overhead

wires to musir the presence of the tap lead-in lines, there lead-In Iines

beeone more readily noted In oasual Inspection by telephone company crews.

The limiting of the mobllity of thaLkI AT

bas not yet Interfered

serlously with LlPAr security or efficiency.

A number of ideas have been tried to bypass this problem but

as jet no satisfactory solution has been found. LIKAT personel are contiming

their attempts to negate this problem, too.

As to the ScoP Investigation, which 18 presently being pursued with more

Vigor than 1s usualls found In Mexiean bureaucracy, the problem here 1a almo

two-fold. First is the problen that the SCOP crens have authority to enter

any (and eventually all) telephone distribution bar and cbeck back on each

connection in these boxes to see if they are aotually in use. On one obcath

they have rung back on a "spare palr" which was in une by LIVIAT to route a

tap to a basebouse.

Although no security problen ensued 1t 1s an example

of the dally danger faced by ITPRAT in this case.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

APPK

18

Another problem, and in the long run a greater danger to lAt, is

the distinot possibility that sCOP will force the telephone company to

use the "spare pairy" for providing service to new subsoribers.

This

would eliminate LIFEAT use of these pairs to route tap lines to 1ts

basehouses, In effest leaving LIFEAT with no way to get the tap from

the

to the basehouse.

Even the possibility

of SCOP insistance on only a reduction in the number of "spare pairs" held

from use by the telephone company could affect LIKAT adversely, since this

would reduce the options IllAT has in routing Its tap lines. However, until t

the investigation is completed, and no firm estimate of a target date 18

prusently know, the real danger of IlYEAT can only be speculated upon.

ITFLID-1 1s alerted to obtain the reccmendations of SC0P when elven to

the telephone company and all efforts will be made by LIVEAT personnel to

e1ther negate or take advantage of any recommendations which are placed

It should be noted at this point that the LIFEAt operation could "blow"

at a8 1n 1t day peratien aara lateral seport. CARAT personnel aro

faces In 1ts dally operation as a unilateral effort.

trained and experienced in taking whatever action is necessary to negate

o lesser the danage annecessary, but 1t 1s true that there can ocour a

situation which will "blow" the operation despite the best efforts.

15. Traintag

Inltial training of no personel and contiming refresher training for

the experienced personnel are handled primarily by the "outside" case officer,

David M. MC314). Minor repair and mintenance of equipment as vet as

emerg-noy security procedures are streaned and contimally reviend with

the agents.

16. Equipment and Support

With the funds requested for this purpose in last approved project reneral,

LTEAT audio and dial tape recorders were replaced during the past year.

Except for the usual problens discovered In equipment which has been

shipped for any distance, this now equipment has vorked well since initial

use in the operation, It 16 belleved that there will be no need to purchase

additlonal large anounts of special equipment for some years in the future,

provided that there is no radical shift necessary in the tap tramniques

presently employed in the operation.

17• Timetable

lalLat has been in contimous operation sinoe its Inception in January 1951,

and as a vital Station operational support asset, it is planned to continue

It inderinitely.

E does Not dis

---

## Page 20

13-00000

-..

PROJECT UTMEAT

PROJECT OUTLINE, PARI II

18, Estinated Costs

The following are the estimated costs for Fiscal Year 1964. All figures

are U.S, dollars per year (US $1.00 equala 12.50 Mexican pesos). Changes

In estimated costs for particular items will be noted. These refleet not

only the continued inflationary trend in the Mexican economy, but also

the LIBAT operational emphasis of support to Station operations. In this

latter case partioular line coverage 13 of shorter duration, causing

greater expense 1n Installation and removal of tap lines and crosses and

frequent shifting of basehouse sites.

In the agent salary category total expense in contraot agent salaries vas

Inoreaned somewhat (due to raises granted DRABAND and ZINSMEISTER during

the past yenr) and reduced eonsiderably in the field agent entegory (due

primarily to termination of three well paid agents.) Overall funde

requested for FY 1961 total $83,808 compared to $99,000 granted for use

in FY 1963 - a reduction of $15,192.

A great part of this reduction was

possible by prograning novnew equipment purchases for the coming year

(see paragraph l6 above).

a, Solaries

(1) Career and contract agents

LEAT as be is supported entirely

by Project LINOd.

Wayne C. DRABAND

IJEMERACE-8 (since this agent is used

In ITFEAT only In emurgenoy situa-

tIon in the event of WILSTED's absence

and 1B actively employed by MICHARITY,

he will continue to be funded under

that project

Carol H. ZINSMEISTER

Olga A. PARFINIK

Additional translator/processor to

be recruited.

6,000

..:

6,400

4,500

3,600

$20,500

SECRET

/

/ KAPOK

---

## Page 21

13-00000

20

(2) Field Agents

IIaD-1.

IIFBUD-2

6,500

2,800

2,000

LIFEUD- 44

2,200

I.TFBUD-5

3,650

LTFEUD-6 (see 01ga A. PARFINIK In

contract agent section above)

INTFEUD-7

2,700

LIFEUD- 8

2,800

IN SUD-9

2,200

ITPEUD-10 (No salary)

LIPBUD-11 (No salary)

ITFEUD-12 No salary

ITFEUD-13 (No salary)

LIFEUD- 13

845

ITFEUD- 16

1,585

ITFEUD-18 (No salary)

LL 3D- 19

1,500

ITIEUD- 24

1,500

IIMUD-23 (No salary)

LIFEID-26

1,000

Two basshouse keepers to be recruited

2,500

Christmas bonus (In nocordance with

local ouston, which amounts to one month's

pay) and gifts where necessary.

4,100

37,880

b. Barehouse rentals

Annex IT

ANX III

Anna IV

Armer VI

Anner VII

Anner VITI

Annex IX

0. Basehouse utilities and expenses

d. Allowance for usual rental increases

when lease renewed

Pi..

2,000

2,688

2,760

3, 000

1,728

3,072

2,880

2,000

1,200

KOMP

21,328

---

## Page 22

13-00000

CECRET

KAPOK

21

e. Local purchase replacement parts,

wire, expendable supplies (as paper

produote, typewriter ribbons, and

emergency-special equipment),

800

800

I Transportation

MV 2455 used by DRABAND

IJFEUD-2,

car rent

LIPLUD-T, car rent

LIFEUD-8, car rent

LIFEUD-5, car rent

ZINSNEISTER mileage

500

400

400

400

300

300

2.300

& Miscellaneous ops expenses

(ineludes loss of rental deposits,

bribes, expenses in moving and

setting up basehouses, and expenses

Involved In special coverage of

targets of opportunity)

1,000

GRAND TOTAL.

83,808

(NOTR.

For the coming projest year Station has not Inoluded, is was done

In past, a fund for extraordinary expenses Involved In agent terninations.

The ordinary costs will be absorbed by the project. If unusual expenses

oceur, Headquarters will be requested to amend Froject ITFRAT for tbe

necessary anount.)

All terminations of Indigenous personnel will be in accordance with Medtean

lar and will Include lump mn separation settlement, transportation and

moving expense payments, and any salary due at the time of the termination.

---

