# 104-10100-10026

## Page 1

104-10100-10026

02.561

ios!

- ..

1001

CA : :

BOUT I 'X

85277

PEBAND

NEAR EAST APRICA BRIEF

CALL INPO IS NOPORN. NONE POR

1. CONSO: //CONGOLESE KILLS IN BRAZZAVILLE REPORTKCLY

CONTINUE TO PLOT THE VIOLENT OVERTHHON OP ADOUIA'S GOVERNSIT. ONE

REFORT STATES THAT THE EXILES HAVE MANUD ASSASSINATION ATTRITS

AGAINST CONCOLNSY LEADERS ANTER & IBC.I/

¡ITH EXILES NON NUNHHR BON NO LONG-TI HITRIKE LETTTET OP

POSITION POLITICIANS AID SOLDIERS WHO PLED TO BRASZAVILLE IN LARLY

OCT. THEY BATE TORNED A CONNITTIS OF NATIONAL LIEERATION AND

ATE MINING TO PORTRAY TARNEXLVES AS A GOVERINRAT IN EXILI. THEY

HAVE BIRN ABLE TO OPERATE RATHER FRIZLY IN THE GENERAL POLITICAL

CONFUSION PIEVALENT IN BRAZTAFILLE VIDIR THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNIENT. / /

I/DOCUMENTS TAKEN FRON TUO ARABITED SOVIET DIFLOATS INDICATE

Twan the cutle let meet guer! erraner pope there, el.

AND SOME OF THE RADILAL AFRILAR STATES. TAST HAVE diE 155.

2/gp

at nig

not "97 8410174t.

BECAST

doing. on of 101

No: 488:80, 45-400

•:AP: IME ISSUINi CHAICE IS PROSPITED.

Casey N.

1631°

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Tiod!

aire ",ne

UNT .

BAN

18.22.

O INOR

D) NO INDEX

F: BILE IN CS SMF NO

FROM: DIRFCTOR

CONEE

INFO !

27 Albn 63

17 082

DEFERRASC CEN

TOUTINE

INFO

MOR TIO

CIFE OIR

85277

ATTIAPTINO TO NET UP A COUITARRART COMNTY78S ON LIBXRATTON IN TIX

CONDO (LIOTOLDVIILS), VITH IVECIAL LUNSABTO ON BUETEATINO FRERSPOT

MOHUTY'E DOLDIES. 1l

//THRTR ACTIVITTEN NNY BOON WECORE &'MIKIÓUS VOUICE dE MRICFION

BNTUNEI LBOPOLDYTLIA AN BRASUIVILLA. ADOSZA BAB ALRRADY THRRATIHED

TO TAEE TUI TRRVE TO THE OTRANIZATION ON APAICÃN SNTTT IN NS FYNDES

TEAT TUE BRIZZATTLLE REGTE IS RETIVELY ASO CAICIALLY SUAPONTIRO

TI KILE.11

2. TUNKEY: (/COLLATIS ON THN TRTFANTIES COALITION OF PRIME

MINTETER XNONO APFRANS ZNIMRIT.1/

//RNPURLICAN PRABANT NATION PANTY (RINP) IEFORTIDLT VOTED ON

26 NOY TO WITUDRAN TRON THE COVIRINEIT. NO CATION SROMABLT UILL. BX

TANEN UNTIZ IHONO RITURNS TROM VABHINGION, MITROUT SUPPORT OF THE

RPXP, THX POB:TUNNT OY THL PRRBENT COVIRANENT TOULD BE UNTIRASLA. 11

!/AB LONG AS INONU'S REPOBLTCAN FLOPLE'& PLITY AND THI NIN

TESE'" M14TY (NTP) PTAY TOGITHER, A NEU CONLITION MXGIT TET BI

FOMMID BY INCLOCIS ÄNDEPSACSNTS. TUS STY REAASTETLI Mi ini. ""-

SIRUM MILITAAT PREBOURE TU REMÁIF./!

¡'IDO MiLITONT HiUN COTARO FÓN 150 MUDS TEAT iT FRXTEES TUI.

so 30..=:8

r-trinele

lea: aépre 8igmt soteadn à

A:TAENTIÇATIMI

CEFICEI

,tO LFFiCE : PRReTED.

L'opy Nel.

(6310

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•..

7

+5297

-MOS THE-

DIVILOTEKIT OF A NATIONAL COALSTION ON ALL PARTIES, MILITANT

LBADHRA PROBATLY CALCULATI THAT, XN THEE WAY, THSY COULD LIED A

CLOBE STE ON THI OPPOBITION JUTICE PANTY, WHICH IB BACKD MAINLY

ET SUPPORTENS OF THE OLD MINICE HIGHNE AID TO WHICH THEY HAVE LOND

BIEN HOSTILE. /1

I PTHE JUNTICE PANTY, WHICH WON A MAJOR VICTORY IN LOCAL

FLECTIONS LAST WIET, DORE NOT APPRAR TO PAVOR SUCH A COALITION AT

TITI. IT APPAIT FLIV TIT I COND FUSTIE IT PON

SUPPORT IVEN FURTHNN BY REILINING IN OPPOSITION. I/

END OF MESSAGE

salian l

;:."

18091

i :"

Tuan X Dallane

DARINEI

Cary Nie

11210

---

