# 104-10165-10075

## Page 1

104-10165-10075

fin.

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA ECADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENDERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/ VOLUNE:

CHARIES

CLEMAID TOSAPH

20/-M 352022

VOL. HI

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: TMIRI ABENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

10340

DATE

RETURNED

29TV678

L8 DEC

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SETS LICHTENEEL

BETA UCHTENFELS

SUREIC BRIDY

S. BRADY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFTICIA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

Clemard Joseph CHARLES

Vol: III

.7

---

## Page 2

Arent

saniti

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

CHARIES, CLEMAND TOSEPH

20/- 1:352022

VOL. H

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

Clemard Joseph CHARLES

Vol.

• III

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

MIRI ABENCY ASCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIVED

10180

DATE

RETURNED

1/e 1487316 Quix TH

291678

L8 DEC

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

BETTe LICHTEUFELS

SUREL BRADY

S. BRADY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3ch picatifels...

NO DOCUMENTS MAX

BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Political Prisoner

in Hospital

Clémart Joseph Charles w25 taken

from the Sitional Peritentiary in Port

au-Prince to Haiti's General Hospital.

The former Dualier banker has been

jailed since Is il "for political reasons!'

No proper trial was held.

Mr. Coarles is suffering from an

acute liver infection and the physi

cians attending him have warned that

he will die unless he's allowed to tra

vel abroad for special treatment.

This isn't the first time Mr. Char

les was taken from his cell to a bos

pital. Last year he was rushed to

Haiti's militury hospital for treament

of the sage disease.

Mrs. Charles has been allowed to

visit her busband.

This is the first time the Duralier

regime has acted half humancly with a

political prisoner. It's been pointed

out that Marie-Denise Duvalier Domi-

nique, a friend of 3lr. Charles, has

often interceded for him.

@ Arny chief-of-stail Jean-Baptis-

te Hilzir wil soon be

replaced, say

military sources in Port-au-Prince.

His likely replacemem? Co. Roger

St, Alvais.

On a lighter note, the General ran

for cover on September 22 while there

was a reties on the Palace grounds

to commemorate Duralier's "election""

in 1957. Accidentally the loaded auto

matic serica of a militiaman sent of

Many offcials, General Hilaire among

them, scrambled for protection, Jean-

Clande, his mother and their body

guard Geseral Gracia Jacques were

trembling, but they kept standing, says

i@- source that was standing close t

]them.

201 357024

4- 1 Ост, 77

Chiraid CHAC LES

501

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Intelligence Infore, zion Report

SENSITE INTELUCEN SOURCED METHODS ITOLVED

(ant to Becodes Pena Steer let for Sonoral Doctoration Scinedulo at 40. 11453 rain Cocain I'M t

DIMECTCHATE CI

OPERATIONS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATON REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

PAGE 1 O€ 1 PAGES

18 October 1974

COUNTrY Haiti

DOI

Early October 1974

SUBJECT

Transfer of Political Prisoner Clemard Joseph Charles to

Port-au-Prince General Hospital.

l. Clemard Josegh Cha I Me béen held political

former president of:

the Commercial Bank of Haiti who

prisoner since ADril 1970 on charees of diotting arainst the

government, was recently transferred fron jail to the general

hospital in Port-au-Prince.

Charles

is said to be dying of

cirrhosis of the liver and

was transferred to the hospital on

orders of Madame Sirone Ovide

Duvalier, mother of

Haitian President Jean Claude Duvalier.

2.

Doctors recormended that Charles be sent abroad for

proper

medical treatnent but ine. Duvalier authori-ed his

transfer Ofthis occurred only after

to close

relatives,

is che led o hospitet Minister of caterior and

Defense Paul Blanchet told the President and his

mother

that he would refuse to become involved in this case

and would

not sign

any papers required of hin as Minister

of Interior certifyiag that Charles had died in prison.

Relatives of Charles still intend to press for his removal from

the country.

30

5

3

SECRET

OCT FBI

Cas Far Field Dieg

ign me final parogreat

CLASSIFIED SX 010116

AWER

LA CARCHAS

LA/PAR

OBJ:KID

(BIAISON

OPS/INT 1, PS/EG 1, LA 4 (4) CI 2

TX-1853

NP (EMEND- 1)

FIRLT-313/01268

M::38:66BA:4%*

9878

RH: ER

1VG: 1h

5) Charlea

201-357029

---

## Page 5

DEPT OF STATE TELEGPAM

PORT AU PRICE 1630

DATE: 28 SOIMEER 1972

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT:

PRESIDENT GRANTS CIVAICE TO 89

ELISONERS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

• DF

IDOS ENTORMATIA REPORT :

StCKET

19hors Falled ing

Oeita

wnrt

TH/7 /HAITI/REPORTS

ExT.

4178/1528

DATE

21 MARCH 1972

CONh

WH-20

li c:

ROJTING

| 3

H/78

. CA. 5,. , CA/ PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC-2, CS/DO,

FR-4, FI 5. IW, ELB-6, DCI, DDP. ADDP, CS/RP

DATE DISTRIBUTED

24 SIARCH 1972

DESSEMINATION

UR/REGNI

LE/INTEL 2 IE/BC/R,2

WE/ RR

1IFF/R /21 C/INT1

KHEL

11

HiT'OR 21

WL'CL

3E')

12: ca/341

PRECEDENCE

XI ROUTINE H

BASED ON (ILD. NT-, P8O8)

TX-1534

EVNEND

LFATSON:"*

LIAISON:

REOUESTED

STATE

OF

HANDUNG INSTRUCTIONS

C

RECOMMEND EXO

ANEY

MAVY

AJ#

• Line eburtritel oodee

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

a.

ont $68

BASIC DOCUVENT NOT

MADE AVAILAELE DCI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED

FOR

SHOW IW

DiSSEM LICTIICALLY

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

25 m 72

LISIB PERSONAL ATTN

ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LAISON

S

ALNT

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CCORDINATINE OFFICER(S)

CUASIFICATION

SECRET

Wham Kline anl

5O 1K-2 us Permous taniin

COPY NO

Tele: 201-357829

---

## Page 7

DIRECTORATE OF

PLANS

•This anecterial

SECRET

• ROUTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

IN

• PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

STATE/DER DIA DIMCCIME SECONN SES ARMY MAVY ANY CLA/MACE NIC DESA SOO ONE CAS-

FBI, EXO, DDI

a al the Basiongn lows, Tilhe 18, USC. Secs.

75y chal STA

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

THIS IS AN INFORMATION FEFORT. NOT FINALIY EVA:CATED INTELLIGENCE

DAST 24 MARCH 1972

COUNTRY HAITI

SUNECT FURTHER EFFORTS BY THE GOVERAMENT OF HAITI TO BRING ABOUT

RAPPROCHEMENT KITH HAITIAN EXILES

I.. ON APPROXIMATELY 20 MARCH 1972 LUCKNER CAMB RONNE,

HAITIAN MINISTER OF INTERIOR AND NATIONAL DEFENSE, TELEPHONED

FERMIN JOSEPH, AN OFFICIAL OF THE NEN YORK-BASED, HAITIAY

EXILE NEWSPAPER "HAITI OBSERVATEUR," AND TOLD JOSEPH THAT HE NAS

DISAPPOINTED AT THE

ANTI-GOVERIMENT OF HAITI (GOH). STANCE

TAKEN BY THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUP" IN GENERAL AND JOSEPH IN PARTI-

CULAR IN THE 18 MARCH EDITION OF THE PAPER. CAMBRONNE STATED

THAT HE HAD HOPED THAT HIS RECENT INVITATION TO ALL HAITIAN EXILES

TO RETURN TO HAITI, COUPLED WITH HIS PRIVATE DISCUSSION

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

* SECRET NO FREIGH DISSEM

WITH JOSEPH, WOULD HAVE GIVEN THE FAPER CAUSE TO RE-EXAMINE ITS

POSITICN VIS-A-VIS THE GOH.

2. (HEADQUARTERS CONVENT:

REPORTED IN

THAT DURING A ZESTING ON 16 MARCH 1972

BETVEEY THE 11O,

CAMBRONNE TOLD JCSEPH THE GOH CONSIDERED

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR AND ITS SUPPORTERS TO BE THE ONLY OBSTACLE

TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO REUNITE ALL FAITIANS IS AN EFFORI TO BUILD

A NER, PROGRESSIVE NATION. AS A FIRSI STEP TO RAPPROCHEMENT,

CAMBROSE ASKED JOSEPH TO REALIGN EIYSELF KITH THE GOH AND RETURN

TO HAITI. IF JOSEPH ACCEPTED, CAMERONNE SAID, THE GOH WOULD BE

MILLING TO NAME HIM TO PHATEVER OFFICIAL POSITION HE DESIRED EITHER

INSIDE HAITI OR ABROAD.)

3.. JOSEPH REPLIED THAT BEFORE HE OR THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"

COULD GIVE ANY

THOUGHT TO SOFTENING THEIR POSITIONS ON THE GOH,

THE GOH NOULD HAYE TO SHOW ITS GOCD INTENTIONS THROUGH DEEDS PATHER

THAN MERE PROMISES. CAMBRONNE THEN INVITED THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"

TO SEND A TEAN OF REPORTERS TO HAITI TO SEE FOR THENSELVES THE

CHANGES WHICH WERE BEING BROUGHT ASOUT BY THE REGINE OF PRESIDENT

JEAN-CLAUDE DUVALIER. BEFORE SUCH A TRIP COULD BE HADE,

JOSEPH SAID, POLITICAL PRISONERS MOULD HAVE TO BE RELEASED. ALSO,

SECRET -

1c dots leg9511

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(83190m 57717

5

3

---

## Page 9

14-00000

PAGE 3 OF A PAGES

SECRET

(elassifestios)

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" MOULD INSIST THAT ANY SUCH TEAM OF REPORTERS

NOULD HAVE TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY NERSHEN FROM OTHER NATIONS WHO

WOULD

ACT AS GUARDS AGAINST ANY PRESSURE THE GOH NIGHT APPLY AGAINST THE

HAITIAN REPORTERS.

4. JOSEPH ASKED CAMBRONNE WHETHER THE GOH INDEED INTENDED TO

RELEASE SUCH POLITICAL PRISONERS AS HUBERT LEGRO S, CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES,

AND COL. KESNER BL A IN AS CAMBRONNE

HAD INTIMATED DURING HIS 15 MARCH PRESS CONFERENCE. TO THIS

CAMBROME MPLIED TRÄT NE COSSIDERED LEGROS TO BE A VERY DANGEROUS

MAN AND THAT HE HAD NO INTENTION OF EVER RELEASING HIM. (HEAD-

QUARTERS COMMENT: LEGROS, A LANTER AND SELF-PROCLAINED COMMUNIST:

WAS ARRESTED IN MAY 1970 AFTER HAVING BEEN SOUGHT BY HAITIAN

AUTHORITIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS. CHARLES, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE

CONMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND BLAIN, FORMER COSMANDANT OF THE

QUARTERVASTER CORPS, WERE ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR PLOTTING

AGAINST THE GOH.)

5. CAMBRONNE REITERATED THAT KE BELIEVED THE "HAITI

OBSERVATEUR" POSED THE NUEER ONE THREAT TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO

REUNITE ALL RAITIANS. CABRONNE ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT THE GOH

ALSO BELIEVED GEORGES R I G A UD, A LEADER OF THE HAITIAN

• SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEY

---

## Page 10

14-00000

PAGE 4 OF

APAGES

.. SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM.

(c)=308 fenid

(diggers controls)

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT IN MONTREAL, AND A PROFESSOR RENE SAINT-

LOUIS,

WHO IS ALSO LOCATED IN CANADA, TO BE IMPORTANT ENEMIES

OF THE GOH.

11.3

MAR 2 9

Do 60 # 6n

SECRET •

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Pensonia entorie

SLOTTED

SECRET

DEPRODUCT I OP

PEES COPY PROMIBITED

MAR 17 23 1 4271

AT:

HTP 1469

DISSEN BY -

ACTION UNIT

W113

RETION

FILE. vI. AOpP.

69/00. 88.

5,

DOP, CA 3, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, DO 4, EUR 5, SOD 3.

SECRET 1717197 MAR 71

DIRECIOR INFO

INTEL

SUPDATA: EVLEMOB/2 FROM EVLEMONA 18 FROM SUBJ

7355

FILED:

1717197

174e8:289539

NO INDEX. FILE:

35-9-11.

100.19

261357,029

SECRET

elemand friph Charte.

insident silicon is cisi

---

## Page 12

14-00000

Irtelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

Đe 289539

PAGE 1.OF 4 PAGES

STATERNA BLA BINOLINE SENR AS ANNY MATY AI CHAMPIDI ARE MESA SDO COR CES

RECTOLATE FOR

PRANS

SECRET

COULIRY

NO FORE!SN DISSO

THIS IS AN INFORMATON ESPORT, NOI FIMALLY EVALJATED INTELIGENCE

DEST 17 M520H 1971

•HAITI

SUBJECT

: RESULTS OF THE INTEERIGATION OF ELIMARD JOSEFH

CHARLES AND RESSER ELAIS

1o ACCORDING IO SRIG. GEN. CLAUDE RAYACED, CHIEF

... OF HAITIAN ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, PRESIDESI FRANCOIS

DUV AL IER CONLETED HIS PERSCHAL ISTERROGETIGE OF

CLEMARD JOSEPH CE ARLES , FORKER FRESIDEAT CF THE

CORMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AID COL. NESSER BLAIN, FORRE?

QUARTERRASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARRED FORCES, OS 15 MARCH 1971.

NO FOREIGNI DISSEM

SECRET

:.

---

## Page 13

IN 289339

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(estant faustom )

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

mala)

• REPORTED THAT

DUVALIER HAD SEEN BLAIN PRIVATELY ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND BLAIB

AND CHARLES TOGETHER OR 12 MARCH 1971•

REPORTED

THAT DUVALIER HAD AGAIN SEES BLAIN AND CHARLES GN 15 MAECH 19710)

2- RAMOND SAID THAT, IS HIS INTERROGATICN OF CHARLES,

DUVALIER APPEARED PRIPARILY CONCERNED WITH DETERMINIBG IF

CHARLES HAD SERVED AS A FUEDINS CHANNEL FROM AMERICAS BUSINESSHEN

TO THE HAITIAN CONSPIRATORS. IN THE COURSE OF THE ISTERACGATION,

DUVALIER SHOVED CHARLES A PHOTOCOPY OF A CASHIER"S CHECK FOR

$178,8E0 DRAVN II CHARLES® MAKE• CHARLES ALLEGEDLY REPLIED THAI

HE HAD DEALINGS WITH KASY FOREIGERS AND HAITIANS. HE DEFIED

DUVALIER'S CHARGES SAYING THAI, IF HE HAD BEE INVOLVED, IT

WOULD HAVE BEES A PURELY HAITIAN AFFAIR AND THAT HE WOULD BOT

SULLY HAITI'S HOLOR BY SEEKING HELP FROM FOREIGERS•

3.

ACCORDINE TO RAYSCED, BLAIS ALSO DEFIED ANY FOREIGN

INVOLVEMEIT. HOWEVER, HE SAID THAI ALL THE CABINET MEMBERS

HAD COSSPIRED WITH KIM AI ORE TIME CR ANOTHER, EXCEPT FOR

AURELE JOSEPH, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTERIOR AND BATIONAL

DEFEESE; MAX ANTOISE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SOCIAL AFFAIRS;.

AND ALRE DUBE, SECRETARY OF SIATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 14

IN. 289559

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

Clean Marion)

ND FOSFIGN DISSEM

(alans e01

AFFAIRS. BLAIN ALSO IMPLICATED ABOUT ONE QUARTER OF THE

-P A9-19AN NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, INCLUDING SUCH PERSONS AS ULRICH

SI. - LOUIS, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSEMBLY AND DEPUTIES

LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, VICTOR LEVERS CONSTANT,

AND MME. MARCELLE AUGUSIIN. BLAIN ADDED THAT HE MAD

.: ALSO CONSPIRED WITH COL. BRETON

CLAUDE, COMMANDER OF

THE DESSALINES BATTALION, AND COL. FRED MO ARIY, INSPECIOR

GENERAL OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES. BLAIN SAID THAT, LONG

BEFORE APRIL 1970, CLAUDE HAD ALSO BEEN INVOLVED IN VARICUS

CONSPIRACIES VITH CLOVIS DES INOR, FORMER SECRETARY OF

STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, LUCKER CAMBRONE,

AND THE LATE LEON BORDES, AND THAT THESE MEN HAD FORMED

A CLANDESTINE POLITICAL PARTY WITH DE INOR AS PRESIDENI.

A RAYMOND SAID IHAT DUVALIER WAS CONTINUING A SECRET

INVESTICATION OF THESE ADMISSIONS, PARTICULARLY IN RESPECT

TO POSSIBLE FOREIGN FINANCING OF THE PLOT. IN RAYMOND'S

OPINION, DUVALIER VILL TAKE NO ACTION UNTIL THE INVESTIGATION

IS COMPLETE.

5 CONCERNING THE MILITARY TRIBUKAL WHICH WAS CONVERED

IN EARLY MARCH 1971, RAYMOND SAID. THAT THE TRIAL WAS SINFLY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

---

## Page 15

289539

PAGE 4 OF in PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(elme controla)

FOR THE SAKE OF FORM. THE SENTENCES HAVE ALREADY BEEN

..DECIDED UPON, BUT THE ANNOUSCEMENT OF THEM AWAITS WORD

FROM DUVALIER. TKE TRIAL OF THE THREE DEFENDANIS CURRENTLY

.. IN EXILE, ALPHONSE LAMES, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER,

:.AND GERARD LOIS EWU, IS SCHEDULED TO BE HELD ON

3 APRIL 1971•

6a FIELD DISSEM: STATE, DEFAIT, CINCSO, CILCLANT.

REPORI CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

11a1 80n

SECRET

---

## Page 16

Intelligence Information Report

DISTURATE OF

S-E-C-B-E-T:

COUNTRY HAITI

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFOENATON REPORT, TOOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELUGENCE

DATE DISTR.

28 AUGUST 1970

SUWECT PROSPECTIVE RELEASE OF REMAINING POLITICAL

PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR

ALLEGEDIY PLOTTING AGAINST GOVERNMENT

1. ACCORDING TO A HIGH-RANKING OFFICER IN THE PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD, THE THREE REVAINING POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN

APRIL 1970 ON CHARGES OF ANTI-GOVERNENT PLOTTING, WILL BE

AMNESTIED ON 22 SEPTEMBER 1970, THE ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT

FRANCOIS DUVALIER'S ELECTION AS PRESIDENT FOR LIFE.

(HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

REPORTED THE RELEASE :

OF THE OTHER POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL AND MAY 1970.)

THE PRISONERS TO BE RELEASED IN SEPTEMBER ARE COL. KESNER

BHAIN, FORMER QUARTERMASTER OF THE ARMED FORCES: CLEMARD

JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF

3

•B-E-C-R-E-T/NO FORZIGN DISSEN

ПТАТ

DIA

TARAT MAYT

1! ASSA

CRS

(For Flold Distributi

CHICG

2 WIL PRIN

SALINI

LINH/T/ DR

CALPROP

1WH/SDON

#

CH/R

(1) 4W/PACY (SINCSO) #

UNTHE

"REP/ ANT LE

TOTAL IE 2, C1 4, FI 3, CA 3, WH6 (2), DO 1.

PORT

PRESCE 7103

HTP-1435

IN 151319)

EVLEMON

ILEVLEYON-2

from EVLEXON-17)

CS-311/07138-70

RR •

BEB CLE

chailies 201-357029

---

## Page 17

PAGE ? OF 2 PAGES:

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

HAITI; AND EDIOND PIERRE -PAUL, FORMER CHILE

PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPRENE COURT. ALL THREE MEN,

CURRENTLY CONFINED IN THE NATIONAL PENITENTIARY, ARB IN

POOR STATE OF HEALTI®

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, DEFATI, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

.÷:."

ott.

"""

4. 1..1

---

## Page 18

Intelligence Information Report

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

DIRATORS OF

SECRET

COUNTIY BAITI

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TRIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOR FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NG

DATE DISTR 13 AUGUST 1970

SUBJECT RELEASE OF HAITIAN POLITICAL PRISONERS

1. AS OF 3 AUGUST 1970, FORTY OF THE POLITICAL PRISONERS

ARRESTED BETWEEN EARLY APRIL AND LATE MAY 1970 FOR ALLEGED

INVOLVENENT IN THE ANTI-GOVERSMENT PLOTTING OF COL. KESNER

BLAIN, FORKER QUARTERNASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES,

AND COL. OCTAVE CA YA.R D, FORMER COLANDER OF THE HAITIAN

COAST GUARD, HAD BEEN RELEASED. BY 7 AUGUST 1970, AN ADDITIONAL

NINETEEN PRISONERS WERE RELEASED, MAKING A TOTAL OF 59.

AMONG

THE PRISONERS RELEASED WERE FRITZ THE B A UD, FORSER

SECRETARY OF PINANCE; VOLVICK CA YARD, FORMER DEPUTY AND

BROTHER OF COL. CAYARD; NAX PIERRE - PAUL, FORMER

• SECRE I/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

MAVY

1 ASA

(Par Flald Di

no Bool paragranta.

CI/IC

25H

CALINT

ICA/PROP

1738

UH/B (1)

13H

(CINCSO A

WH/Z01E

GREP ALINT

lat

TOTALB

BY CABLE

LE 2, CI 9, FT 3, CA 2, WH 6(2), DO 1.

- DEFERRED 610000

7087(1 (X141314) HTP-14321

EVLEMON

PRO

Charles: 201.357029

---

## Page 19

-=945

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

SECRE T/NO FOREIGY DISSEN

DEPUTY; RAVEAU IS TIME, FORMER SECRETARY OF JUSTICE;

JOE. CLEARD JOSEPH CHARLES; ME. CLEENCEAU

PROSPER AND HER DAUGETER KARYSE; AND ALI OF THE

DETECTIVES OF THE PORT AU PRINCE POLICE DEPARTIENT WHO HAD

BEEN ARREST2D.

2. AS OF II AUGUST 1970, THE OVLY PERSONS STILL BELIEVED

TO BE UNDER ARREST ARE CLINARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT

OF THE CUTERIN. BANK OF HAITI; COL. BLAIN; EDLOND PIERRE-

PAUL, FORNER CHIEF PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPRENE COURT;

AND A COUSIN OF CLEYENCEAU PROSPER. OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED

IN THIS CONNECTION, ONLY TO, CITE DO UGE AND LEON

BORDES ARE DEAD. BOTH DIED AS A RESULT OF HISTREATIENT

WHILE IN PRISON.

3

SEVERAL OF THE FORMER PRISONERS,

INCLUDING THEZITO, ME. PROSPER, AND PIERRE-PAUL, HAVE BEEN

SEER ON THE STEEETS OF PORT AU PRINCE SINCE THEIR RELEASE.

ALL OF THE FORMER PRISONEES ENCOUNTERED THUS FAR HAVE EXPRESSED

ASTONISEVENT AT THEIR HAVING BEEN RELEASED AND ARE UNAELE TO

ACCOUNT FOR THE UNEXPECTEDLY LENIENT TREATMENT THEY RECEIVED.

ONE UNSUBSTANTIATED RUNOR CIRCULATING AROUND PORT AU PRINCE

HAS IT THAT THEIR RELEISE WAS THE RESULT OF PRESSURE EXERTED

ON THE BAITIAN GOVERNKENT BY THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN

STATES.)

A. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLINT.

SECRETE CES DISS

---

## Page 20

DEPT OF STATE TEERAM

PORT AU PRINCE 9-?

DATE: 6 AUGUSE =9-0

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECI: RELELSE OF POLITICAL, PRISONERS

DEPT OF STATE IDLEGRAM

PORI AU PREICE E-:

DATE: 8 MAY 19.0

CLASSIFICATION:

[LITED OFFICIAL USE

SUBJECT:

MEASLIDE TAKEN BY SO: AGAINST ALLEGED

CONSPIEATORS

DEPI OF STATE ISLEGRAM

PORT AU PFIS 3 546

DATE: 8 MA:Z370

CLASSIFICATION: UNCIASSIFLED

SUETECT:

SOME ESCATION ASSETS CHENARD JOSEFA

CHARLES

---

## Page 21

14-00000

FºaW 1923

5213

USE PREHOUS

EDITIOES

CISLE SECRETARIAT DISSENIRATION

ASSIFIED NESSAGE

TOTAL CORES 2E

SECRET

- 2:

•r:.

-вт:

NATE TO ESTEEMA ETCH COPY

I RETURY 89

- BRANCH

6605.

SECRET 2SIGIEZ MAY 79 CITE

DIRECTOR

SHer INO 732S?

le ACCORDING MORNING PRESS & MAY, LEGISLATIVE CHAYZER

PASSED DEGEE 1 PAY SHICH STRIPPED FOLLOUIS LESSONS OF

K&IT IAN CITIZENSHIP AM CONFISCATSO THEIR GGODS ATO CHATTELS;

QLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER, ALPHOTSE LAKERS,

AID SHER BLAIN. STATED REASOS. FOR DECRES WAS THAT THESE

PER SORS WERE ACCOMPLICES OF REBEL COASTGUARDSMEN. THIS

DECREE ESSEITIALLY SAME AS OKE PASSED 27 APRIL ACCORDING

DEST ICAL TREATMENT TE COASTSUARDSMEN

20 PALACE ALSO AROUNCED THAT IT KOULD KOT PROCEED.

WITH EXIRADITION PROCEWINGS AGAINST COASTQUARDSTE! BUT WOULD

JUDGE THOM IN ABSENTIA. THIS ACTION FOLLYED ECTE RECEIVED

BY EMBASSY ON 7 MAY WITHDRAVING EARLIEP. REQUEST FOR

EXTRAD IT 10H.

•3a KET EFFECT THESE ACTIONS LENDS CREDENCE IO IMPRESSION

THAT HAITIAY GOVT PREPARED ACT IN OUIWARDLY LEGAL YAY IF

DEALING WITH REBELLICH. OVONE HAND, REXCVAL OF CITIZENSHIP

AND CORFISCATIO% OF PROPERTY LEAVES FAMILISS DESTITUTE WHICH

PROBABLY APPLE OSJECT LESSON TO OTHERS CONSIDERING REBELLION

SECRET

¡arles 201.

---

## Page 22

14-00000

FORN 1129

USE NEVIDAS

EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETAD AT DISSERINATION

I PERSON LOT TOTA LO

Lisoris

- 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

(dimen F.l ed In)

SECRET, "

SENSITED

MADE E:

Does

CONSENT TO CIFER NO.

HREE TO ES FLEBD.-

O TERS DACTURS TO

El FIS, VR

1..

PAGE THO

SECRET

WHILE AVOIDING ADVERSE PUBLICITY EIGENDERED BY WHOLESALE

ARRESTS ALD KILLINES IN PAST. ON OTHEE, WITHORAZAL OF

EXTRADITION REQUEST PROBABLY DONE I! RECOGNITION OF FACT

THAT U.S. WCULD NOT HONOR REQUEST AND THUS NEEDLESS

COMFROMTATION KITH U.S. AVOIDED.

4o IS BOTH RESPECTS, THESE MOVES REPRESENT MUCH MORE

POORATE RESPONSE THA! HAD BEEN TRUE IN PAST. WHILS THEY

SUGGEST DUVALIER MAY BE MELLOWING WITH PASSING YEARS,

INCLINE ELIEVE THAT THEY PROMPTED MORE SY HIS BELIEF THAT

HIS POSITION SUFFICIENILY SOLID IO MAKE MORE DRASTIC

MEASURES UNS CESSARY TEMPERED BY NOTION THAT SUCH MEASURES

RIGHT PROVORE ADDITIONAL RESELLIONS. THUS DUVALIER WOULD

APPEAR OICE AGAIN TO HAVE STRUCK YORKASLE POLITICAL BALANCE

BETVEEN VARIOUS CORTEDING FORCES AND FACTIONS IF HIS

ENTOURAGE:

•50 08 PERSONAL SIDE, FRAYNE'S LIFE SOMEWHAT

COMPLICATED BY FACT THAT CHARLES VAS HIS LANDLORD AND EFFECT

OF CONFISCATION ORDER REMAINS TO BE SEEN.

6.

1O FILE. GP-1o

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 23

cd-idloor

-TRAYSMITIAL

LASSIAICATION

BOUTING

SECRET

(Whae fillad ia)

DRIG

UNIT

EXT.

DATE

CONF:

WH/7/KAITI/REPORIS

4222

#OTK

T HAY 1970

WH 15 0

CA 5, CA. PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D, I

DATE DISTRIBUTED

7 JAY 197C

DISSEMINATION

PRECEDENCE

X/ROUTINE.

BASED ON IPD. MY- PIOIN

NH/REG

WH

7/Hti 7

WH/R

2 MH:7 DR

WH/FI

KH

WH/CA

WH

((CINCSO)

6H/7/R

REZ LAMI

EVALUATICH

REQUESTED

STATE

ARATT

05

HANDUNG INSTRUCT.ONS

RECOMMEND EIO

6870, 6871

(IN 075915,

1405

075925)

LEVWISER

JLIAISON:

NAVY

Ail

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT

MADE AVAILASLE DCI

RELAY CARE ATTACHED

SHOW IW

:DISSEM ELECTESCALLY

TO:

EICLUSIVE FOR USIB

USIB PERSONAL ATTN

IRWANOO CASLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICEI

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

C/wH7/l

CLASSIFCATON

SECRET

(Whhee Fiitndl tn1

Joe 11-2 une Aurweus eorones

RELBASING

C/WH/R

COPY NO.

Clarles 201-357629

---

## Page 24

• ROUTINE.

Intelligence Information Cable

IN

075915

075925

PAGE I OF 2' PAGE.

STATE/INI DLA MACC/MC (SECDEF SCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CLA/NACE MIC NSA S0O ONE CES MEN SENT!

DILECTORATE OP

FBI

SS/ID

PLAYS

I& 55

This medal or in a one to ta Mo Period olen en the Laid So per itin thy mening of the Fringe lone, Tira TA US. Bace 973 one T doe

NO FOREIGS DISSEN

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REFORT, NOT FMALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

DIST 7 MAY 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

13 14 326H573

2. DESUNCIATION OF COL. OCTAVE CATARD, COMMANDER OF COAST GUARD,

BY LICKNER CANBRONSE, DEPUTY FROM ARCAHALE

1.. ONE OF THE SOLDIERS AT THE DESSALINES BARRACKS WHO IS

GUARDING COL. KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF THE

ARMED FORCES, AND CLENARD JOSEPH CRARLES, PRESIDENT OF.

THE COMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, WEO WERE ARRESTED IN EARLY APRIL

1970 FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERVENT PLOTTING, SAIL THAT BOTH MEN

STILL VERE ALIVE AS OF 30 APRIL. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:

TDCS 314/03869-70 REPORTED THE ARRESTS OF BLAIN AND CHARLES. )

2. ACCORDING TO A SOLDIER AT THE NATIONAL PALACE, COL

OCTAVE CAYARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, WAS SUMMONED

• SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 25

075915

N

075925

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

•SE-C-R-E-TISO FOREIGN DISSEM

(duRem controlos

TO THE PALACE ON 22 APRIL 1970 BY PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER

AS A RESULT OF A DENUNCIATION BY LUCKNER C AM BRONNE,

À DEPUTY FROM ARCAHAIE. (HEADQUARTERS CONMENT:

REPORTED THAT CAMBRONNE WAS A MEXBER OF A COSMISSION ASSIGNED

BY UVALIER TO INTERROGATE THE PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK

OF 1 APRIL 19702) WHILE CAYARD BAS WITH DUVALIER, CANBRONNE

TELEPEONED DUVALIER 70 SAY THAT CAYARD SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED

BECALSE HE (CAMERONNE) HAD IRREFUTABLE PROOF OF CAYARD'S

COMPLICITY IN ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING. DUVALIER ASKED CABERONNE

TO REPEAT HIS ACCUSATION VHILE HE GAVE CAYARD THE TELEPHONE

RECEIVER TO LISTEN. FOLLOWING THE CONVERSATION WITH CAMBRONNE,

DUVALIER REASSURED CAYARD OF HIS TRUST IN HIM AND REQUESTED

CAYARD TO ARREST TWO COAST GUARD OFFICERS DURING THE COURSE OF

THAT WEEK, CAYARD AGREED TO FOLLOW THE ORDER, BUT TOLD DUVALIER

THAT HE KNEW THE ADDRESS OF ONLY ONE OF THE TWO OFFICERS.

•(FIELD COMMENT: ON 24 APRIL 1970, CAYARD LED AN ABORTIVE REVOLT

BY THE COAST GUARD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. SEE

AND SUBSEQUENT REPORTING ON THIS SUBJECT.)

3.. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.

*S-E-C-R-E-I/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

fe'asvileatton)

---

## Page 26

DEPT OF STATE IDLEGRAM

POET AU PRIXCE 472

DAZZ:

28 APRIL, 1970

CLASSIFICATION:

SUEJECT:

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORTS OF EXECUTIONS OF PEPSONS ALLEGEDLY

INVOL DD IN COAST COARD ATTACE

---

## Page 27

SUBJECT

SECRET

(Men Filled in;

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

CF

DOCUMENT

DOC MENT

IDENTIFICATAU

S- ANALYST

&. DATE PROCESSED

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR

SOUNCE DOC. SYMBOL

I. SOURCE CHYPTONYM

•- DATE OF InFO.

10. JISSEMIBATED 8H

T1. DATE

A- DATE

EVANATION

88.

TO THIS FILE

DOCIMENT

DISPOSITION

PERTINENT INFORMATIOM

TRAASFERRED TO

&I FILE mO.

CHARLES

201-357029

SEX M DOB 7

CIT ?

OCC ?

ACCUSED CF COUP PLOTTING

036-0C9-006

PRIN 06803

15 APR 70

HTP

R 7005080679

FILE IN 201-357029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

D- 87 867 v08.

SECRET

---

## Page 28

14-00000

CLASELFICATION

TRANSMITIA.

OF

IDCS INFORMATION REPORT

SECRET

ORIG.

ROUTING

LNIT

WH/7/RAITI/REPO?TS

ĐXT.

DATE

4222

13 APRIL 1970

3 ;

31

$104

CONFIRMATION COPTES®

WH

15

TDCS -314/04019-70

INFORMATION COPIES

5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/PS, CI/OPS, CJ/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5,

FI'6, FI/D, IN, SOD

DATE DISTRIBUTED

13 APRIL 1970

PRECEDENCE

DISSEMINATION

ROUTINE

BASED ON (1LO. HP.. $0L)

WH/REG

WH/R

WH/FI

WH/CA

WH/7/R

EVALUATION

REQUESTED

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

WH/7/Ht 7

2

NH/7/DR 1 3E/

33/

REP/LANT

ds0sO)

HTP-1379

EVLEHION

LIAISON:

6798

(IN 060590)

(EVLENON-29)

ARMY

NAVT

ABE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

IDINATING OFFICEIS)

BELLASE

SECRET

QANEN FEL0D IAG

AaMAl M-ll cioscae8a eAl DUn ADAtICas

C/VH

COPY N

charles 201-357029

---

## Page 29

ROLTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

IN 060590

PAGE 1 OF. 2 PAGES

FRATE/INR DLA NACC/AC CECDEF ICS ARMY NAVE ASO CRA/NNOE NOC NSA SDO ONE (OS INTZEIDI

IZTXITEXE

DIRECTORITE OP

PLANS

is mstetial obutains injartuarían elfact

mansnission ar reveic

So n e

D, ta sohonod Dolano d de Draital Seae Miti, y eeing ol ta Eopicmeago dor, Tota 18 U.SE Seca 7l eid 794, tbe

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

SECRET

THIS IS AN INFORMATICN ISPORT, NOT AINALLY EVALUATED INTELLGENCE

132 022k27

DIST 13 APRIL 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

SUNJECT DENUNCIATION BY CLENARD JOSEPE CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COSMIERCIAL

BAIK OF HAITI, OF AXTI-GOVERNKENT PICT

1. ACCORDING TO IR. JACQUES FOUBCAND, ONE OF THE

PERSONAL PRYSICIANS TO PRESIDEIT FRANCOIS DUVALIER,

DUVALIER WAS INPORKED OF THE RECENT ASTI-COVERNUENT PLOT, WHICH

SUBSEQUENTLY LED TO SEVERAI ARRESTS OF SESPECTED PLOTTERS, BY

CLEIARD JOSEPE CHABLES, PRESIDENT OF THE CONMERCIAL BINK

OF HAITI. CHARLES DENOCNCED THE PLOT TO DUVALIER WHEY HE REALIZED

HE HAD BEEN "DOUBLE-CROSSED" BY COL. KESTER BLAIN,

QUARTERXASTOR GENERAL OF THE ARVED PORCES, NIO HAD PRONISED TO

MAKE CHARLES PRESIDEST OF HAITI IN RETURT FOR $100,000 TO FINANCE

• SECRET/NO FOREIGS DISSEN

(elanaifeuten)

l8' aaoros pessrenle

---

## Page 30

IN 060590

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

• SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN

A REVOLT AGAINST DUVALIER. GEISIES JISO EAS PERISED FO

GIVE THE VOSEY TO BLAIN. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ALTHOUGE SOURCE

DID NOT INDICATE EON BLAIN HAD "DOGBLE-CROSSED" CHARLES, CHARLES

HAS REPORTED IN OCTOBER 1969 TO BE FINANCING A PLOT FITS

HEADED BY COL. OCTAVE CAYARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GEARD.

REPORTED AYOTHER PLOT AGAINST THE DUVALIER GOVERNEST BEING

HEADED BY BLAIN. CHARLES, HOWEVER, WAS NOT MRITIONED IN THIS

REPORT AS BZING ISVOLVED IN BLAIN'S PLOT.)

?. FOURCAND SAID TAE INQUIRY IS CONTINUING. HE SAID THAT

HE WOULD DEPEND THE PRISONERS AND ADDED THAT SO OJE WOULD BE SHOT

AS HAD HAPPENED BEFORE. (HEADQUARTERS CONIEST: FOURCAND PROBABLY

IS REFERRIG TO A SIMILAR PURGE OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS AGLIST THE

COVERNIENT CARRIED OUT BY DUVALIER IN HID IS67, WHICH RESULTED

IN THE EXECUTION OF 19 ARIY OITICERS.)

REPORTED TELT FOLRCLID IS!

A MEMBER OF THE COMIISSIOY INTERROGATING BLAIN AND THE OTHER

PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK OF 1 APRIL 1970.)

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, ARMY, CINCSO, CINCIAST. (ALSO

SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(COINSE

---

## Page 31

0830L27:3498"=96÷8

- ATA.

THE TO CB FAEN -

OPENS CAST-S TO

RESEN MY.

LETON THET

Wịt 8

AtTen me

1 # RA DH

"SECRET ISITOR APR 7O

IRECTOR

3A 3059504

*. COSSIDERISS FACT THAI BLAIN AFFAIR IS FIRST JUICY

ECASEL LOCAL RUMOR MILL HAS HAD TO CHEN ON IN SOME MOSTHS,

RUNO? CIRQUIT REMARKASLY QUIET AS OF MORNING 9 APRIL.

STATION ASSETS HAVE HAD NOTHING HEN TO REPORT SINCE

EVNESER/8'S ACCOUNT OF USCERTAINTY IlI COAST

GUARD. EVEN

LIPURE INFOPHASTS WSO SOMETIMES WORK OVERTIME COJCOCTING

RATIONALES OF PAST EVEIES AID GUESSTINAIES OF FUTURE IN THIS

/ STYPE OF SITUATION HAVE SEEN SILENT.

2. CURRENT BOX SCORE OF DETAINEES COMPRISES BLAIN,

DOUGE, BORDES, CLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES AND HIS ASSISTANT,

APOLLO EARSIER. ALPHONSE LAHENS STILL AT LARGE ASD

REPERTOLY UISUCCESSFUL IN SEEKIES ASYLUM AT VARICUS LATIN

ERASSIES. ME. LAFESS HO LONGER IN CUSTODY. ALSO

CORSTAKTIN DUPLESSIS HAS BEEN RELEASED.

3O H0 HARD INFO AND LIITLE INFORMED SPECULATION

CURRENTLY ANATLASLE ON MATURE OR EXTENT OF PLOT IF ONE

'ÄE UALLY EXISTED. MOST PERSISTENT RUMOR

IS THAT SLAIN

SOREHOW FLAMIDD SEIZE GC-IN AND LAY SIEGE TO PALACE WITH

SECRET

cluele, ao1 file.?

---

## Page 32

thiss

I sorres

AT:

₴

PRCOUGTION SE TOS COPY

U581.

CL NOT TO ES PREMO

UNET TO CE FLE Ma

BEA

FILE, Va

ACTAN NO

PAGE TYO

SECRET

PORT AU PRINCE POLICE SOMEHOW PLAYING ROLE OF GROULD

TRODPS IN ATTACK ON PALACE. IF THERE ANY SUBSTANCE AT

ALL TO THIS RUMOR, SEEMS ODD THAT EOVI HAS HOT MOVED AGAINSI

COAST GUARD. SEEYS EQUALLY ODD THAT BLAIN WOULD HAVE BEEN

BADMOUTHING COYEAT EFFECIIVENESS OF POLICE IN TALKINE TO

EVENS LAST DECEMBE? IF HE ESVISIONED SORE ROLE FOR THENTO

4O OUR TENTATIVE JUDGEMEST AT THIS POINT IS THAT PLOI,

IF ONE EXISTED, STILL VERY MUCH IN TALKING STAGE AID THAT

ARRESTS PROMPTED. MORE BY INDISCREET TALK BY BLAIN,. CHARLES,

ET AL WHO NOTORICUSLY VOLUBLE TRAY REAL CAPABILITY FOR

ACTION. ALSO BY FACT THAT GOVI HAD NOT TAKEN DECISIVE

ACTIOU DE THIS SORT FOE SOME TIME AND DUVALIE?. MAY HAVE

CONCLUDED THAT TIE RIPE TO REMISO DISSIDEETS THAT HE STILL

IN SADDLE.

S 50 FILES.

GP-1.

SECREI

SECRET

---

## Page 33

14-00000

DEPT O: STATE TELEGRAM

PORT AU PRINCE 295

DATE: 7 APRIL 1970

CLASSIFICATION: CCIE IDENTIAL

SUEJECT: ARRESTS OF COMMERCIAL. BANK OFFICERS

---

## Page 34

14-00000

: UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Immigration and Naturalization Service

MIAKI ПА.

letructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphen

wish the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Foderal Burosu of Imestigatia

Department of Justica

Washington, D. C. 20535

DATE

1-27-70

5.L16

FAMILY NAME Capiial Lerers)

CHARLES

JOSEPH

COUNTRY OF CITIZENSAIP

HAIT!

LINTED STATES ADDEESS Number, Streco, C°s. State, Iiy Coche

UNIVERSITY PLACE 2 B. ORANGE, NY

ASILINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF LIVAL

AF 212

Hamber, Strel, Cry, Province (Stuta) and Copiry of PERMANENT RESIDENCE

RHE LAMARRE #2 PORT AU PRINCE, HAITI

GA TEL DATE

SIET PLACE

20-07-39:

CAPOTTLIB, HAITI •

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION

MIAMI, FIA. 1-1770

PLEPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADANSSION

officinl dur of statas

DESTINATION

USA abeve

$ 10

RET

Debor a

are roquested to turninh any dere

gatory subvorsto information regarding this allen to the F.A.I.

e: CIA

2/2/70

BEF

puty Amociate Commian

raval Contr

file in 208-35702.9

---

## Page 35

14-00000

3165%

CLASSIPIED METINGS

SECRET

" ran fires in

TOTALLOP®

Wh

0: 201720

G

WHiS

CONNY TO CAMIL

FRECHDENCE

SETIN

SE C

R

E T 291630L OCT C9

PRIORITY

DIRECIOR INFO DO BASE NEW YORX

AXULE DONOFS EVMEND

REFS: A.

2800 174887

B.

I• INTERESIED TO MOTE THAT RES A CITES IDEMS F ANDN

DEF A AS ONLY POSSIBLY MIITING OF RES A PLOI, WHEREAS IDEN H

IS SOURCE OF INFO ON REF B PLOT IN WMICH IDER F IS ALLEGEDLY

PRIME ACTIVIST. POSSIBILIIY THUS EXISTS, IF THERE AMY

VALIDITY TO EITNER REF, THAT REF B IS SIMPLY DEFORI BY IDES H

AND/OR IDEN E TO SMOKE QUE INFO CU REF A PLOT FROM EVNEND/I=

EVMEND/I'S ACTION IN INFORMING IDEN N AND URGING BC TO CCORDIUATE

#IIM IDEN F SEEMS FUOLHARDY SINCE IT BROADENS SPECIRUN OF LOOST

LIPPED MAIIIANS PRIVY TO ONE OR BOTY ALLEGED PLOTS.

20 ALSO INTERESTING THAT BC ENERGES FROM BOTH REFS WITN

ACTION CAFABILITY OF WHICH WE MITHERTO UMAWARE. WHILE THIS

PUSSIBLY MORE CASE OF EVREND/I ATTEMPIING CREATE IMPRESSION OF

IN COUNTRY ÇA ABILITY THAT ACTUAL FACT, WOULD APPRECIATE ANY

ADOITIINAL LISIT 2Y OCTO3ER MEETING ABLE SHED ON BC PERSOWALITIES

AND ACTIV!TIES.

SACRIT

---

## Page 36

14-00000

= 19m9A:109

a072

ATe.

CASTIFiED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECREY -2

Whos Friled In)

19800UC9.0N 09 200001

O ves

- m9-

BR:00013A 20000 088 1BR B 8088

fILS, VR

100

PAGE INCL

S

EGRET

3O WOULD ALSO APPRICIATE HOS COMMENIS CA IMPLICATIONS FOR

BC OF APPARENT RIFT BETWEEN EVMEND/1 AND EVMEND/A.

A CONCERNING PARA S REF A REQUEST FOR FAST COMMO BETVEES

EVREND HOS AND EC, HOS MAY WISH COUSIDER FLOATING

AS PERSONAL FRIEND OF

"NO RECENTLY ARRIVED

LNGOLD OFFICER BUT PROBABLY WILLING PASS ON PRIVATELY ANY WORD

FROM BC. THIS PLOY USEFUL IN SMOKING OUT EVMEND/I WILLINGHESS

IDESTIFY BC OPERAIIVES, WHILE LEAVING

FREE TO DISAVOW IN

EVENT CIRCUMSTANCES OG GROUND SO DICTATE. THIS ALSO PRESUPPOSES

EUREND!! CONTINUING VIABILITY AS CHANNEL TO EVAEND ORG DESPITE

RIFT WITH EVMEND/A SINCE WE SEE LITTLE VIRIUE IN OFFER OF CONTO

CHANDEL BECOYING SOURCE OF FURIKER FRICTION BETWEEN VARIOUS EVHENDS.

3. FILE: 36-121-2313.

SECRET

SICRIT

ant, over.

---

## Page 37

27 October 1969

MENORASDUM FOR : Deputy Chief, WHY

REFERESCE

• Your request this subject

Following our receipt of information that Clemard-

Joseph Charles bad taken a list of requirements into

the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince and asked help in

filling them,

WH Division

sent a senorandum on

19 August 1969 to the Chief, DCS, asking that DCS's

contact with Louis A. Brun (from whom Charles bad

received the requirements) be terninated.

The DCS New York office on 29 August 1969 sent a

memorardum to Chief, DCS,

which reviewed the case,

noted

Brun had been guilty of sloppy security, and concluded

that no further requirerents would be given him.

This

nenorardur did not, hoverer, say that contact would be

terminated; in fact, it said they would continue to de

brief Brun

whenever

he returned from a trip to Haiti.

This nenorandun was sent to Port-au-Prince (ETPW-1347,

17 Sept 1969) •

The Station replied

_11 Oct 69)

that this was not enough,

that the contact shoald be

completely severed. MH/Branch T officers then net with

to discuss the matter further,

WH/7 officers maintaining that there was more political

action hazard to this contact than the FI product

justified.

agreed to raise the matter with

C/DCS.

The result was a nenorandum on 16 October 1969

Iron C/ICS to C/WHD which referred to the original WHD

memorandun of 19 August and advised that contact with

Brun has been terminated.

was so inforned

(DIR 48277, 21 Oct 69).

SECRET

ENBIERESOON

---

## Page 38

14-00000

CABLE SECRE "ANI AT DISSENTATISDI

ADVANCI CER DISSUES ORATEDI

0. 19*1F1[D #199M0

SECRET

MIBSOLCTICOE

now?

+IE0 80.

+ 18+107 1 .

Doe Dr

01886# 00.

ACTIOn s

ECT CLes, ELZ, CAS, CAlPeE, CAllere, MestesEz,

SECRET ORDIZ OCT 69

PRICRITY DIRECICS INFO

NO MIACT

ANULE SOPOPS EVFEND

REF

270 8&74095

1. ¿OURCE PALA E PELOW IS IDEN M OF REF E VIA EVMERD/I. DOI

CA 25 CCTOBEF.

=.

SEPAPATE PLOT FROM THAT DESCEIPED REF À IS UNDEP WAY HEADED

Restininin

3Y IDE: F REF E WITH ALLEGED SUPPORT OF UXIDENTIFIED OFFICERS WHO

PLAMEISE TO TAKE POWER USING TWO CORPANIES FROM DESSALIFES SARRACKS.

IDER F PRQUESTS THAT EVERDS LAUNCH FATE INVASION PLOT DIVERSION

SIVILA? TO ONES IN PAST, LETTIMG IDEN E KNOU DATE AND PLACE INVASION

SUPPOSED TO OCCUR. COUP MOULD THEN EE TIMED ACCOPDINELY. IDEW W

IMPLIED IMAT COAST GUARD ONCE ALERTED COULD BE COUNTED CI TO GO ALONG

WITH JNSURGENTS BUT DID MOT MENTION IDEN A REF D IN INIS CONTEXT.

SECRET

---

## Page 39

14-00000

SEC

- 24085 16 2

3. ENTEND/S INFORMED IDEN M IN GENEPAL TEPMS THAT PER A PLOT

IS JELLISC AIT AEY ECTION SY IDEN F CROUP AGAIIST PPESIDENTIAL

CLAPD OCULD EE PISTGRE. EVEND/S INFORMING UPEAU CENTRAL DE. IDEN

F PLATS AND U-GISE INEP COORDINATE, SAYS EVENDS WILL NOT ATTEMPI

TO. FLOAT INVASION STORY OR APPROVE ANY SUCH ATTEMPT ON PARI OF EMIGES.

4O EUMELLIA FAS MOT DEEN INFORMED BY EVENDAI OF INFO PAPA

3 ASOVE, ALTFOUCH EV"END/A AVARE THAI EVFEND/I HAS BEEN SEEING

IDE? HO EVENGI HAS APPPAISED EUMEND/S OF GENEPAL FEATUPES OF RET

A PLAN EUT NOT OF PAPA & ABOVE. RELATIONS BETWEEN EVERD/I AND EVERDIA

APPEAR TO EE AT RADIP, HENCE SUGGEST GILSPIDE PLAN DETAILED

• DISCUSSION PRESENT SITUATION IN MC WITH SASE PRIOR TO AFTERNOON

WESTING VITH EVISDIN ON 29 OCTOPER.

3. FILE: 15-124-2913. INDEX DEFER.

SECRET

---

## Page 40

T0O.(58-01908-0° 59995940° 09

SECRET

Des 051

DIDACC: C'5408

AOVANCHCONY

1 BOTRO

A-188 4O FILE 10 -

0-3880 80-

ot,T 6229

лине

1332

SECRE T 231325Z OCT 65

DIRECIOR INFO

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

RET

23086871559

(1870936)

LO. ONLY POSSIBLE INDICATION OF RET PLOTTINO IN RICIAT

REPORTING WAS DELPHIC CORMENT BY EVLEMON/18 7O E 2

ON 21 OCTOBER INAT WHILE MEN LIKE DESIDOR, RANEAU ESTINI,

FREDERIC DESVAPIEUX MANEUVER TO REPLACE DUVALILE, IT IS SAMED

FORCES WHICH HAS THE LAST WORD IN SUCH MATTERS. ALSO THAT

THERE ARE TIMES, IN POLITICS, WHE: E/LE MUST BE RETICENT •

DESPITE MIS CONSIDENCE IN E/Z'S INTENTIONS, ALSO WHEN ENZ

LEAST EXPECTED 1T, ELIA VOULD TELL HIN EVERTTHING THAS VAS

SOISE CH. REMARKS MERE MADE IN MESPOSE TO MA MUSIN TOUT

IMPACT OF RECENT NOUVEAU MONDE ARTICLE BY ANTOINE KERARD WHICH

BEING INTERPRETED BY E/IB AS DUVALIER PLANT FORESHADOVISO PURGE

OF MORE CORRUPT ELSMENTS IN GOVTO (REACTION OF E-S, 18 AND

16 TO ARTICLE BÉINA DISSEMED).. THUS L/ID'S REMARIS MAY SIMPLY

HAVE RIFERRED TO THIS SORT OF PURGE INSTEAD BROADER PLOT.

NOTED RIF •

MAS APPOINTMENT WITN IDEN B NE DOSO &7 OCT 1O

SECRET

---

## Page 41

15 wesses

SECRET

= I=

norant com

11009e

PAGE THO

SECREI

DISCUSS MEN LEASE ON MOUSE HE OCCUPYING. PLAN USE RESTILA

TO OPEN LOM KEY CHAUNEL TO IDEA SO REALIZE IMIS DUPLICATES

EXISTING CHANNELS OTHER LAPURE OFFICERS AND IDEN B BOTORIOUSLYE

INDISCREET, BUT SLY BE OF VALUE IF RET PUDE JELLS.

SO ALSO PLAN PAY COURTESY CALL ON IDEA A UHO LIVES TWO

HOUSES AVAY IN CONTEXT GETTING ACQUAIMID WITH MEIGBORS..

4. RE IDEN I WHO ENCRYPTED EVLEAT/I, BELIEVE UPCOALIS

VISIT RAY AFFORD CHAICE GET FIRST MAED READING

HIS VIEWS®

OR

MAY APPROACH DIRECTLY AS PERSON IREBAST

SUGGESTED VAS WELL. INFORMED ON HAITIAS AFFAIRS. PLS ADVISE

IF MOS HAS OBJECIONS TO LATIER TACE. ..

SO ACCORDINE MILATI, IDEN DAL IS PROSABIT FAME HEAD

THOMAS, PDOB, SI. RAZO, HAITI, S JUN 3S; GRADUATED MAITIA

MILITARY ACADEMY '36.

Go UPON CLEARANCE FRON MES, VILL PASS SUBSTANCE

PARAS 2 AID 3 RES TO CRARGE.. ALSO PLEASE ADVISE WHEN LABOLD

INFORNED.

SECRIT

СЬЁ!

SECRET

30 i

---

## Page 42

14-00000

TRANSAITAL

TDCS INFORMATION REPCHT

OASSIFICATION

#179

RCUtIG

SECRET 23

ono.

UNIT

EXT.

NH/7/REPOPTS/ HAITI

1222

DATE

23 OCTOBEZ 1909

í17-66

CONFRMATION ESPS

18

INFOUMATION CCPIES DCI, D/DCI, DIP, AADP, CS/RF

CA 5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, PI 6, PI/D, IW

DATE DSTRIUUTED

23 OCTOBER 1969

PRECEDENCE

SISTEMINATION

XI RCUTINE

BAJED CN (FLD. 0T., PEC).)

WH/REG

WH/R

WH/FI

1

WE/T'At 7

2

1

WE/7/ DR 2

NE/CA

WE/T/R

EVAUATTOR

REQUESTED

CE

STATE

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

(IN 70936)

ETHEND (EVTEND- 1)

LIAISON:

AEAT

MAVY

AI$

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

1000m

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PONEP EALRE ANS

COPY

Chales 201-357029

16

---

## Page 43

DIBECTORATE OP

PLAS

This weariet

NO FOREIGN DISSEY:

SECRET

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTIVE

IN 70936

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

DER PUS/ DCS

MS AD JUSIA

maring of it Business lour, Tate I U.SC. S008. 953 and 996 stere

THIS 15 AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

2321 01206783

DIST 23 OCTOBER 1969

COUNTRY HAITI

SUNECT PLANS BY HAITIAN MILITARY OFFICER TO OVERTHROW THE DUVALIER

GOVERNENT AVD TO ESTABLISH A JUNTA

ALTHOUGH NO SPECIFIC DATE HAS BEEN GIVEN POR THE ACTION,

COL. OCTAVE CA YARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, GEN.

GERARD CONSTANT, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND ?

COL. GRACIA JACQUES, CONLANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD,

ARE LAYING PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNHENT OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

elena fres prol

---

## Page 44

IN 70936

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

•SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DUVALIER AND TO ESTABLISH THENSELVES AS A JUNTA. THE

PLOT IS BEING HEADED BY CAYARD AND IS BEING FINANCED BY CLENARD

JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF

THE CONVERCIAL BANK OF HAITI,

IN THE AMOUNT OF $600,000.

2. IN THE ORIGINAL PLAN, THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD WAS REGARDED

AS A MAJOR OBSTACLE TO THE SUCCESS OF THE PLAN AND, THEREFORE,

CAYARD AND CONSTANT AGREED TO INCLEDE JACQUES IN THE JUNTA ON THE

GROUNDS THAT IT WAS A NECESSARY EVIL. CAYARD'S ONLY CONTACT WITH

JACQUES, HOWEVER, HAS BEEN INDIRECTLY THROUGH CAPTAIN THOMAS

(FNU) • (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: THOMAS PROBABLY IS IDENTICAL WITH

MAJOR JEAN THOMAS, EXECUTITE OFFICER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD.)

3. BESIDES THE ASSISTANCE THE PLOTTERS HAVE OBTAINED FROM

INSIDE HAITI, THEY ALSO ARE SEEKING SUPPORT FROM HAITIAN EXILES

WHO ACTIVELY OPPOSE THE DUVALIER REGINE®

4. (HEADQUARTERS COUMENT: IN MID-ILY 1969, A MILITARY JUNTA,

WHICH INCLUDED CAYARD AND CONSTANT, WAS BEING FORMED TO OVERTHRON

THE HAITIAN GOVERNIENT. AT THAT TINE, IT WAS NOT CLEAR IF THE

GROUP HAD ACTUALLY APPROACHED JACQUES, BUT IT WAS THOUGHT THAT

AS COMMANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD, HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 45

14-00000

• 70936

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

•SECRET /NO FOREIGN DISSES:

101227s consOla

OSTER NECESSARY SUPPORT FOR THEIR PLAN, SEE

THE PLANNING IN MID MAY 1969 WAS FOR ACTION IN THE EVENT OF

DUVALIER'S DEATH. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE PRESENT PLOT IS IN

FACT ONLY A CONTINUATIOS OF THAT CONTINGENCY PLANVING.)

5.

FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT. (ALSO SENT

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

(classifestton)

(desere controle)

---

## Page 46

14-00000

---

## Page 47

14-00000

7

1A-0096

• 098 в

J.. 214C

•th 601?

2-880 90 19 p060 08.

CO/REC ELZ

S9 CITE.

• CTING)

RIOFITY DIRECTO? 15F0

. MILE SOOPS EVEN

• EF

+20088-705565

T07693>)

EPOPTS

ATED TE SEPT TYRU I1 OCTOBEP. PEPORTS ENCORDED IN PRIVATE ALMEPICAL

CE USED PEIKEEN ENTENDS AND EC, MAILED TO EVERD/S OVEPT LETTER

ROP UNICH SAME AS THAT USED EY EUMOUSIA!.

¿. IDENS A, CANO E PLASMINO QUESTHRON DUVALIER AND SET UP

"LUES AS JUNTA. TIFING NOT GIVEH. IDES E FIFANCING THE PLOT TO

INE OF É6P8, GRU. INSIDE KISTINE PAPTIES APE IDENS D AND POSSIPLY F.

ISIDE SISTINE PARTIES ARE EUMENTAS, EUMERORA EDENO, AND PASSIOLY

-HEM HUNO ESOTHER OF IDEN F.

SO CHOSELOGY OF SC INVOLVIMENI IS AS FOLLOWSI EI AUG, BE

ITING FITH IDEN S, WHO INDICATED ME PLAINING SUPPORT COUP NICH

¡CIPISTE FUT FEEDS HELP IN REQUIRE COSTACLE OF PPESIDENTIAL GUARD.

:. GAVE FIP NAMES OF RELIABLE IPDIVIDUALS AT SPECIFIC POSTS AND

IGGESTED APPROACH TO IDEN E VIA IDER DO 1I SEPTEMBER, BC MEETING

•IN IDES & UHO REVEALED THAT FE DEALINE WITN IDEN C. EC PLACED

SECRET.

---

## Page 48

14-00000

1 GE

TO LEONDECT CONTACT MITE 105E CUIALOGO 1. DE DO 19 COPTERCEO,

OCCITACT FITM IDEA 1, LEAPSED THAT IDEN A 1S ITAGIME PLOT. 5C

SUED FER CONTACT WITM DDEN DO GS SEPTEMEEF AND O ACTOSER 36

EETING VITO IDEMA. 23 SEPTEMSER, LAST EC MEETING EITH ADENO.

ROY INET DATE TO LI COTOPEF OILY EC CONTACE NAS IDEN A. AS OF 1I

COZES EC FELT HAD COMPLETED EROVER POLE IN PLAN AND UNDEPSTANDS

MAT IPSES A A C AGFEED TO I CLUSION OF IDEN E IN JUSTA ON GROUNDS

HIS NECISSARY EVIL, IDEN A MAINTAINS INDIPECT CONTACT WITH IDEY E

IA IDEA DO ICER C IS IN DIFECT CONTACT WITH IDEN DO NAMES OF

ITTING GUARDS OTHER THAM IDER-P MCT DISCLOSED BY EC TO EVEROS.

4. PC FREER WHO CAFPYINE BALL THIS OP IS IDEN J.

SO PC FEGUESTS FCLLOWING ACTION FROM EVENOSE ESTABLISIERT OF

AST TWO-WAY COMNUNICATICHS ESTWEEN SC AND EUTENDS HO; AND

AUNCHING OF DIVEPSIONARY ACTION TO DISTPACT DUVALIER ATTENTION.

SENDS I AM A PECUEST RUROCY ASSISTANCE ON FIRST ITEM AND ADVICE

Y SECORD.

6a EVYOUST/I PLARMING TRIP TO NYC 2 MOVEMEER. EVERDS WOULD

•CEPT MIY AS COMMO LINK TO BC BUT UNSURE MON BE WOULD FEACT TO

¡XING HIM WITTING. EUMEND/! PROPOSES TEO OTHER ALTEPHATIVES FOR

MERTEDIARY, IDENS K AND L, COULD ASCEPTAIN FPOM BC SY TELEPHONE

"METHER EITHER OR BOTH ABLE TRAVEL TO US ON SHORT MOTICE, EVPEAD/A

• ITITUDE THESE CAACIDATES NOT YET KNOWN.

%O. MEETING SCHEDULED TOP EUMEND/I AND GILBRIDE FOR 89

CTORER. MILL ADVISE RE EUPENDIA AVAILARILITY SE OCTORER.

LELAND FEETING EVNEED/& 2S OCTOBER.

ECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 49

14-00000

ESSANE FU

БОТА-СОРУД:

SE(PET

Count:

WR/7/HT

ĐIT:

1349-5595

21 OCTOBER

CABLE SECHITNNLAT DUSSTNIATICO

1969

_FEB -

COmE

1043

Bone. ve. Plin.

O RETUS tO -

• PRANON

• FILE MID

Note and tian lolat]

47 70NL

4827.7

SECRET

21 23

CITE DIRECTOR

REF:

(15 63672)*

1. ON 16 OCIUBER, MODISE ADVISED ATLE THAT IT

HAD TERMINATED CONTACI KITH SUBJECT OF BET.

2.

FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

WE COMMENT:

saty, contact

ITIAT T

C/THD

LEASHIS OFFICEN

CS COPY

ANNA OFFICERS

SECRET

21 0ct68

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

simon Estates

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMITED.

' can ma

0201 - 357028

---

## Page 50

14-00000

To de, COPES:

SECET

rawt:

NH/7/AT

1319-6595

21 OCTOBER 1969

INLE SECRET DESERADON

O to not

• RETURN 50 -

MARCH

1. 18. 8 is

50 920.3 it betat

SECRET

21 23

an ame some Fifet

#12&63

CITE DIRECTOR

PORCEL

48277

7

REF:

(IJ 63672) *

1. OF 16 CCTOBER, NODISA ADVISED ALTLE TEAT IT

EAD TERMINATED CONTACE WITH SUBJECT OF RIP.

2. FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

#H CONVEST:

*Subject of Bef is Louis A. BRUN, contact

of Clenard Joseph CHAPLES.

TOLTAV. BROS

CATED

MEASINO OPPICEN

COCE

SECBET

CTION BE OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

-=4.2x5

---

## Page 51

14-00000

A UNCLASSIFIED

SERNAL

OWLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUIJECT: (Opsional)

DCS Contact With Louis A. Brun

FROM

DeS/SperatieN Support Stats

900 KEy B14

mhas, ans

DATE

RECEVED

EXTENSION

2268

EMAL

DATE

COMF aNTIAL

LO SECRET

Case 47540

16 October 1969

DO/ DOSI

Acting Chief, iT Divlsion

3 D 3107 Headquarters

C/WAIFI

Water 2000 254 114

2009T

See Attached Memorandum.

7.

C/10w17

DC/WH/7

C/WH/7|dauti

Ruth ih!

Ock.

21985

218C7

4/.

V

Ils. advise

Done. - by

DIRECTER

48277

did

21 0ст 1969

9.

1&.

11.

12.

87

15.

SECRE

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 52

14-00000

SECRET

16 October 1969

HEMORANDUM POR: Acting' Chief, Hestera Hesisphere Division

SUBJECT

: DCS Contact Wich Louis A. Brun

REPENTIC: 19 August 1969 Memoranduz To DCS Fron VE

te have terminated contact with Louis A. Brun.

SECRET

IuC-18$9

---

## Page 53

CABLE SECRITARLT DISSRMITENTION

FIRSON UAT HOTTIES

ADVANCI COPY

SLOTTED

MISSED MESSAGE.

таты COP

SECRET

(When Filled ts)

REPROOUCT ON OF THIS COPY ETCH A TES

DOES DIED

CUTENT TO FILL 90-

ANES TO FRE DO

DISSEN BY

BRANCHD

1kIe8

218 CEIL

•SECRET 102219Z OCT 1969 CIIE

1100769 # 63672

DIRECTOR.

RYBAI

REFS HIPW-1347, 17 SEP 69

do APPRECIATE REF RESPORSE BUT CANNOI SEE HOW

DaS

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN WODISH AND LOUIS A. BRUB IS

ALIERED TO ANY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH NEW HANDLING

PROCEDURES NOR IS THE POTENTIAL FOR COMPROVISE LESSENED.

-THE FINE NUANCES RE WODISH HANDLING OF BRUN EBRIEFING

BUT NO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE

UTIEPLY MEANINGLESS SHOULD BRUB WIND UP IN FRONT OF A

FIRING SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE

HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIM RESPONSIBILITY

FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

• 2 HARDLY A WEEX GOES BY BUT THAT LIPURE IS NOT

MADE AWARE OF ANOTHER PLOITING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH

CHARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORIS

HAVE AGAIN REACHED A PIICH STRANGELY REMINISCENT OF THE

ONE SHICH IMMEDIABELY PRECEDED MIS THEST IN 196%

CHARLES HOW CLAINS SUBSTAMIIAL SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET

---

## Page 54

14-00000

CABLE SECHETAMIAY DISSESMNATION

PIESOHUNT BOTAND

ADVY +p-299

CLASSITIAD MESSAGE

TOIL CHES

SECRET

(when Filed In)

REPROQUETON OF THIS CODI PES.. "ED

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO

_RID COPY

FaE. VR

POUTING ANOVOR NIMALS - SEEN EN

2

PAGE 2

SECRET

GUARD, AND DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TINE IS

TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY

AHD CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE THE GC-IO INTO THE

HARBOR TO START LOBBING SHELLS AT THE NATIONAL PALACE.

PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION,

FUEL FOR GC-10, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHT PEOPLE.

3 THE FACT THAT WODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS

JEVOLVED IN ANY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHOME IN HAITI IS

HOT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1969,

BRUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FRON

PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LNHARP OFFICIAL.

DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES

TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY

DIRECTOR 02376. BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED 9. OTT ING

GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE IMAN

ENOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY

DISPAICH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND

BRUM HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY.

Ao. THE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUM CITED

SECRET

---

## Page 55

td-nn0n

AT NOTHIN

ADVANCE COPY

SLOTTED

CUSSI.ED MESSAGE

TOTA CORIS

SECRET A TOT

(wren filled in)

arpained a

t: 0990 66r.88

REFROOSE" DA OF THIS COPI ESCRIB: TED

YES 10

ENDER

СельР та ті НО-

Н-НЕЛ ЧО ТАЛ ПО. -

ME ANDOR ATTIS - SEEN EY

"21

0E5T3-86

DSB80

RID COPY

PAGE 3

SECRET

PARA 2, G. REF ACTUALLY. TEND TO IMPLICATE HIM MORE IN

INTERHAL PLOTTING. ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY B&JN

IN DIRECIOR 02376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTTING GROUP WHO

WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69. LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDESTIFIED

AS PLOTTINS WITH CHARLES AND BRUN PER DIRECTOR 97813,

20 APR 66.

3. 5.

HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONCHIC

INFORMATIOO PRODUCED BY BRUS AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES

AMYTHING HOT KNOWN CRUMOR OR FACT) IO LUPURE, WHICH HAS

STRONG ECONOMICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAT BRUN

HAS NO WORTHWHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORTED BY INCIDENT REPORTED

WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LNPURE

REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE THE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED

ON BRUN BY VODISH®

Go BRUB IS ADMITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND

APPARENILY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT

BRUN FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSES IN HAITI,

THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISKS FOR RVROCK.

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERIÇAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT UNILE

HE IS IN HAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A HAÍTIAN. INPURE CAN GIVE

SECRET

---

## Page 56

CABLE SECPITAMAT DESENMATION

PRISON LAT HOTHTED

ADVANCH COPY

ЛЬСТТЕР

CLASSFIED MES

TOTAL COMES

D6848 14 218

(W'm Filed in)

#:199088188

REPRODUETET OF INIS CODY AROM BITED

AN DEN:

D

$85

O 40

CLASSIFY TO ME O

FILE NO DAY. TO

BRANCH D

DEBEEN HY.

ACTION

FIBE. VIL.

PAGE

4

HIM NO PROTECTION.

7 FILE : 201-3570290

"SECRET

SECRET

SECRET

sis Ponie

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SAID MESSACE

TOTAL COD

SECRET

RECLARIS

(m'wen Filled in)

REPROOSE DA CE THIS COPY PRICE-TES

GUANCH CON

Janes

ДТ:.

ACTION

TLE NO YOUr. TO

TINFO

218 CERA CLINS

BRANCHD

Tales chrestsa

SE CR E T 102219Z OCT 1969

110c 69m63672

DIRECIOR

10H/Z/MT

RYBAT

REFS HTPJ-1347, 17 SEP 69

I APPRECIATE REF RESPONSE BUT CANNOT SEE HOW

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN NODISH AND LOUIS!

A. ERUN IS

ALTERED TO AMY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH NEW HANDLING

PROCEDURES HOR IS INS POTENTIAL FOR COMFROSISE LESSENED.

IIE FINE NUANCES RE WODISH HANDLING OF BRUIDEBRIEFING

BUT NO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE

UTTERLY NEAHIIGLESS SHOULD BRUN WIND UP IN FRONT OF A

FIRIME SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUNSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE

HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIN RESPONSIBILITY

FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

Ro HARDLY A WEEK GOES BY BUT THAT LIPURE IS NOT

HADE AWARE OF ANOTHER PLOTTING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH

CRARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORIS

NAVE AGAIN REACHED A PITCH STRANGELY REMIWISCENT OF THE

QUE MAZEN INREDJATELY PRECEDED MISPAREST NO 1967.

CHARLES MOV CLAINS SUBSTAUTIAL

• SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET

cleates

IS COPY

201-357029

---

## Page 58

IT BOTH,ED

• NEVANCE GRE

556E0

• BoTi

TOTAL COSE

(Whan filed in)

REPRODUETON DE THIS COPY FEST ATED

INDER: D VES D 1O

CLABSIDE TO FILL NO -

S-REE TO FILMER

FLE NO DIY. TO

1950:

BOUT

SEEN B-

BRANCH D

DESH TIE

PAGE 2

SECRET

GUARD, AID DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TIME IS

TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY

AID CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE INE GC-10 INTO THE

HARBOR TO START LOBBING SHELLS AT THE NATIONAL PALACE.

PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SHALL ARMS AMMUNITION,

FUEL FOR GC-18, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHT PEOPLE.

3o THE FACT THAT WODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS

INVOLVED IN AMY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHEME IN HAITI IS

HOT V2R? RZASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1959,

ERUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FROM.

PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LIHARP OFFICIAL.

DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES

TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY

DIRECTOR 02376. BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED PLOTTING

GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE THAN

DOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY

DISPAICH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND

BRUN HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY®

4 INE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUN CITED

SECRET

---

## Page 59

CARE SECRETAMET

KANCH COPY

SOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL CCRES

CHOUE!

(When Filed In:

84-+ 1790 211-99

REPRODUCTION OE THIS COPY PRCMIBITEO

D

res a ro

CLASSITY TO FILE NO

F-HIS TO FILE MOM

MILE NO CRET. TO

_RID COPY

FaR, VAL

ROUTING ANCOS MARS - SICA I

! &

DESTROY 1 646

"PAGE

3

SECRET

PARA 2, C. REF ACTUALLY TEND IO INPLICATE HIM MORE IN

INTERNAL PLOTTING ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY BRUM

IN DIRECTOR 82376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTTING GROUP WHO

WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69 LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDENTIFIED

AS: PLOTTING WITH CHARLES AND BRUB PER DIRECTOR 97813,

20 APR 66.

5.

5

HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC

INFORMATION PRODUCED BY BRUN AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES

ANYTHING HOT KHOWN CRUMOR OR FACT) TO LAPURE, WHICH HAS

STRONG ECONCHICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAI BRUB

HO WORTHYHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORIED BY INCIDENT REPORIED

WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LNPURE

REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE INE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED

O BRUN BY VODISH.

6o BRUM IS ADHITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND

APPARENTLY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT

BRUM FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSES IN HAITI,

THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISKS FOR RVROCK•

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERICAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT WHILE

HE IS IN MAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A MAITIAN. LIPURE CAN @IVE

SECRET

---

## Page 60

1* CAN SECTION DREAMA ROS

FILESO

Cu

PESSAGE

TETE COMES

COCURE

(When Filled Ini

SECRET -E

REPROCLET ON DE THIS LOSE SOCH BITED

#-RIS TO PILE NO..

PASSEN!

BRANCH?

no come

" PAGE

KIM NO PROTECT 10M.

% FILE & 281-357029.

-SECRET

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 61

TAL COM

089 *

R. BERG Et

WH/7/HT

1340-5595

15 MAY 69

D apres to

м4 8

lalar o. daal, 9p 75854-935622

BICBIT

ста оватов

ATTE

0237 г

(IN 57930)®

I. GIVEN BELL IN TXT OF DE'S REPORT CONCRENINO

RIQUBET I: IAITIAN OPPOSITION CROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW

WITH U.N. OUVICIAL. DES REACHT CAME FROM LOUIS A. ERUI

ON BARALY OF CLENARD JOBSPE CHARLES, BRUE I8 CHARLES® MEN •

TORE LAVYIR AND BUBIKESA REPARABITATIVE. DES TAB ADVIBRA

THAT WE HAVE NO INTEREST IN CONTACTINO ANY REFREAKTTITIVE

CR HEBES OF PLOTTING GROUP.

8, DIPTICULT AT THIS UTACE TO DATININE PEE !%!

ANY) CHARLES INVOLVED IN PLOT. THKES COOD POSSIBILITY FLAT

CHARLES HAS ONLY HEARD OY PLOT AND ATIRNPTINO TO ACT AB

BROKER EBTUKEN PLOTTERS AND U.B, COVINMENT FOR ON INTARIETS.

IN HID 07, CHARLBA OSKD THR INUH-D CS CHANNEL IN ATTRNPY

OBTAIN U.B. COVERNERT SUPPORT FOR OGS OF HIS PLOTS.

S. LANKID, PIU, MOTIONED IN DES REPORT FROMADLY

IDENTICAL WITH ALPHONSE LANDIE, FORMER DEFUTY FROM ARCANAIS,

YBO IN JUK CO MAS REPORTED BY DES

TO BE OBCAMISINO FLOT

Continued.

mme even

BICIET

NO ON OVER TAN THE MOLDO OPAICI I PROMINED.

---

## Page 62

TAL PENN

BECRIT

4943

#Hy

*TH%

WOnt PaCHa

BECRET

PACE THO

erit see was

WITH GENTRAL CONSTAFT, COLONEL BLAIN, AND OTHERS. CS

023761

J(1 40289)

NO TRACES

EDGARD BONI FLA PARS PEPOLT TO ANBASBADOR BOBB. BOS EBADIME COPY

TO ARA/CAR.

REPORT POLLORS:

A. ONE OF THE UNDERCRONID OPPOBITON CICUPE IN MATTE

IS CUNTENED IN THE FOLLONITO INDIVIDUALS: LAMENE, THU (PORTER

DRPUTY, NOR IN BHI-HIDINO: COLONEL LEANER BLAI (RRAD OF

ARIY QUARTIRLASTIR VAREROCESS); COLONEL CATARD (EAD OF FIN

COAST GUARD): CONDITT, MAU (CHISY OF STATT). FILY WISH TO

CECITIZE A JUNTS, FOLLONITO DIS DRATH A LNTIRMRNY OF HASTIAN

PRESIDENT DUVALIER, AND BOICION POWER DURINO TRANBITIC

MATOD. HULCHING TRALBITION PERIOD, THIS CROUP MISHA:TO.

HATE FREE FLECTIONS AND TIKI RUTTRE FRON POLITICAL ACTIVIST.

LAHRIS WOULD LIKE TO MECOME A INNISTER. MAIN POULD LITE

DIPLORITIC APPOINTENT, CAPARO MOULD LITE TO BETTRE TO MIA

CATTES RANCH,. TIL CIOUR LAE DO PARTICULLR CANDIDATE TOB

PRIDIT.

B.

THIS COUP ALICHS TINY IT COIDE WIDE SUFFORT

-ANCHO ARIY PEESONUZ DO PORT AU PRINCE AND IN THE HAITIAN

BINTMAN. THE COP IB AIPONTIDLY MILLINO TO POLE MITI ANY

continued.

ONU IT OTHER THAN THE MILTOO OPPICH I PROMOTHE

---

## Page 63

#dar

diPg

BBCRIT

SOLE AUGHLTAPLAT DIRNESSIISAATOOE

O manra

Dren

Theod

BECRIT

PACE TERKE

OTHER NOR HAITIAN POWER.

1827741

6. UNTIL RECENTLY, THE PLAN OF HIB GROUP TAS TO 8IT

BACK, WAIT FOR INTERNAL UPHRAVALA AND TRIN NOVE IN TO ASSUKE

POWER. THY DID NOT VANT TO ACT ON INKIN CHY, BUT PREFERED

TO TAD ADVANDIG OF AN INTERTAL UPIRATAL CHLATED BY BONKBODY

1185.

%. THN NORT NECKIT RUORA CONCEKNINO PRESIDITY DUVALIER'S

MALTY MY, HONIVES, CUED THE BOUP 1D CHANGE ITS MIND.

THE MSHBIRS NO DECLARE THAT TIMI IS OF THE ISBRICE AND THAT

AB BOOT AS PIKBIDENT DUVALIXE "OORS OU THE OPFRATINO JAILE"

THY WILL MON.

B THE COUP RICOGNIZES, HOWVE, TIAT COMSIDIRASEE

DIFTICULTITS LIT IN ITS PATE AND IN MOST ANXIOUS TO DISCUSS TI

ENTIRE MATTER IN BECRET WITE A U.Q. JIVOT. WHAT TINY HAVE TO

ВАТ ТО ТНІВ ДРОТ Уз ПОВ КЛОНИ.

D. THE CROUP HAS ORGANTEND THE POLLOWING FROCKIORS FOR

HE INVOY TO FOLLOW, VIENT, HE 10IT MOD A CABLE 50 TH

POZZONING CABLE ADDRIANI BIELATAB, PORT AU PRINCE, BAITI.

COTIHUED. •••

BCEIT

---

## Page 64

Man, Cana

BE CRET

O a man

O west Ti-

SICILY:

PAC SOO

сто стаете

THE CAFLE HUST KRAD AB FOLLOWS:.

CARBIED ON C10T DO E

DISCUBS THE BIBAL DRAB, PERATE BREARVE BOOK YOB BE AT THE BAHA

BOUCI, BOTEL." THE HAS DICKED TO TAY CABLE DOSS NOT MATTE.

CO.. PORT AD FRINCE, BAITI, ESCOND, IS HUST REGISTER AT SI

BANI SOUCI AND AWAIT CALL QU VIBIT FUCH MAN HAHED EDGARD BONI.

BONT IN KRSIK BLANTS BROTHER. MAN DATOIAL PAMILY HANS 1E

"BOS"; BRAIN CHANGED HIB SAID, BOHE VILL BITERS BAKE TE

RITOY TO TALI TO CONSTANT ON WILL INPORA HIM OF ARRANGERT

MADE FOR THE INTARYLE, HIS OLY PRISON FILERIT AT TUE

JIVOY NESTH CONSTANT KE NOST INTALIKE HIS NORA MIDRA BY

BAYINO "I HATE INN SINT DY IT. BIESTIGE TO DIRCUSS SIBAL."

293 KEY WORD I8 TIER

10. IT YOULD EL FURTERANE, SUT HOT MANDATORY, IN T

"SCART U.U, KIVOY VAS ABLE TO BURAI TRINE," (8ID OU REFORT)

12. PILE : 30:00:

..- at a

SPODUCTIM IN OTHE MAN DEI ROUTE CAPACI L PRONETIO

---

## Page 65

14-0000Đ

A0E 10

Tal CraP

What 9

O to me

Comer

PACE FIVE

*WE CORINT:

eru busTer

On 10 my.

Clemard Joneya Charles told

Babassy Officer

of plot aplent

Daraller.

Date of plot may

be advanced nou

thet Dareller

812.

1023741

с/от

C/HI

D COUNCI

UCTION IN OVIE DMA DE MILE

---

## Page 66

14-00000

DISPATCH

QUELIER

SEC3BT

FINESE ALTON

EUTS TO MENS

ARAB

Chief, IN Division

• Subject of 301357029

References:

B.

C.

D.

a 3401,

19 Asgast 1969

DIRECTOR 26288. 1 AugEst 1968

IP 1443, 29 July 1969

1. Hendquarters agrees L

that the con

tinued contact between Subject of 201-357029 and IDEA.

on bebalf of VODISH, poses a potential security threat

fOr the LIFARP cOnposents 1a EsitI.

Upon receipt of

Bel C, the Desk sent a nemorandon to Chiel, WODISH, on

Da 79 Auget 1969, the FODISH offleer to 1s 1

contact wits iDEa, replied

to the Desk's senorandan at

follers.

*. Ve (WODISH) have carefully comaldered the

Desk's comments re IDEN A and his relatlonship vita

Entject.

Ve have concleded that in the mtter of t

mine questions concerning the activity of forelga

comanies in Enl81, IDEa A is been culity at

Jenst of sloppy security procedures and (we) have

decided to modity our rel tionship vie hir.

subject his never dondied sat fis

represented a chamel to LAP astharity which be

could use to applement his contacts with enters

of the LAPURE ItB11 ta Port au Prince. IDI A

Attehment: UNDER SKPIRATE COVER Continued.

Dlstelbutton.

CROSS NEFERENCE ID

#/att W3/C

COPIN SERENE

FTPI-1347

GRIFICA

SECEET

IS COPY

DRI

23 SEP 1960

17 Septerber 1901

SES ME BLUEN

301-357020

IN CHAINS

5595

GEESE I WAN

JANE PING

-÷ 38;

118-7-69 H

4: 0106

DISPATCH

---

## Page 67

DISPATCH

DO. AND RUNATE

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECREI

ETP 1347

was originally latroduced to TODISH in Hew York CIty

by Bakject on 15 April 1966.

Until the early fadd of

1967, much of VODISH activity with IDEN A was devoted

to arranzing contacts vita various elements of LYHARP,

Which IDEN d requested on tehalf of Subject, and

reporting operational inforsation.

To the beat of

TODISE knowledge and beliel,

howeyer, none of these

contacts produced any tangible assistance to Sabject's

varions schenes.

with two exceptions,

relationship with IDEN A since Octoter 1967 bas been

exclusively that of foreign intelligence collection.

The exceptions vere Subject's request for a secret

meeting with a VOLADY eroy in lay 1969, and a=

Independent sinilar request from another grop in

As has been fully reported, IDEH A

made it perfectly clear to HODISH and to Subject

and to the other group that be vas acting only as

a chanel and that he was not actively involved or

interested.

We (NODISH) simply transeitted the

He wish to point out that what the Desk

calls IDOl's

"Lottying" fer Subject ended before

Octater 1967.

During the nearly to years in

Which the contact in the WODISH Rew York Office

dealt with IDEN A, the latter has never sponsored

or "lobbied" for Subject's various schenes.

has occasionally relayed Information concerning them,

but has told IODISH repeatedly that he no longer

wishes to be imolved politically with subject.

He wish also to point out that IDIN A, as &

regular supplier of foreiga Intelligence on B:iti,

data which originate with Baltians

other than Sabject, and,

therefore,

IDEN A de not

merely subjeit's southpiece.

Specifically, IDEN B

I IN: CArE NO dI IDIN A'5 Bitina sources.

IDK B 1s a vell-known Baitian businesams; IDKN C

1s a lorer deputy.

We (TODISE) are not concerned with Sabject,

we do not believe

that IIN A is Levolved in any current revolutionary

schese 1a Halti.

disturbed at tbe

unprofessioral ray in which IDil A handled the question

concerntaz foreign companies in Haiti.

We did not

request IDTH A to consult Subject about the requirenent

on foreign companies and, in view of the maner in

which ITIN A bandled our requirements, we shall

contine culy to accept inforsation which he proffers

on his return from his frequent trips to Haiti, and

sin11 refrain fron briefing him. Ve have requested

Our TOMOIP customers to give us an evaluation of

IDEK A° Intelligence reporting..

Unless this evaluntion

1s unfavorable, ve shall contine to exploit IDEN A

in the maner just descrited.

Insolar as contet

returen IDIN A und Subject in concerned, (l) re cannot

mereat IDEX A fron talking to Subject (or auybody

else), but (2) ve have never in the past and shall

not in the future request that IDIN A contact Subject

On Behalf of TODISH. *

3..

To date, the VOROMP evalUAtIOn Of IDEN A'a

reporting has not been received.

Hoever, since lODISt

me ageed to refrala from briefing ID A prior to any

future tripo be my ake to lalit, there should be

rewrence of the type of ultuntion described in let C.

LLAMAPICATION

BECRET

VAN 9001

PAGE WE

12

201-3581

---

## Page 68

Attachnent:

0/S/C

HTPI-1347,

17 Sept 1062

non a wie vonseil ligen ....

ES COPY.

INCATI TONT 01347

0201-35305

---

## Page 69

14-00000

DISPATCH

CISFINA

8I CBST

110.

id.?

PENISEN: 40T:00

HATE FI SOOTHE

CHI SUALFES 054

LAN LIVE WERNE

• IX AFL

Calet, VI Division

Subject of 201-357029

ACTION ASCENE? - MEFERENCES

References:

B.

C.

D.

aTPh 3451. 29 auget 1308

DIRECTOR 26488. 1 Angast 196H

29 July 1909

ATPA 3413, 39 July 1969

1. Hendquarters agzees w1th Station that the con

tinned contact between Subject of 201-357029 and IDKI A,

on bebal! of IODISH, poses " potential secority threat

for the LAHARP components in Ja1t1.

Upon receipt of

Rel C, the Desk sent a penrandus to Cher, lODISE, on

L9 Augast 1969, which forwarded a resune of the Bel C

Information, and requested that the contact beseen

IDKN A and Sabject on behalf of VODISH be terainated.

On 29 Anguat 1960, the VODISH officer who 1a 1n

entact uith In, replied to the Denk's nerorandon as

tollors.

Ve (VODISE) have carefally comidered tbe

Dest's coments re IDEA and his relationhip vis

Babject. Ve have concluded that In the matter of the

nine questions concerning the actluity of forelg

companies la Haltl, IDEN A has been guilty at

least of sloppy security procedures and (we) have.

decided to odily our reltionship with bla.

SabJect has aver doubted that IDEN A

represented a channel to LIBARP authority which he

coald use to supplement his contacte with membere

of the LEPURE stall 1n Port au Prince. IN A

Attnehment: KIDER SKPARAZZ COVER Contined. ••

2 - Port a Prince /att 0/8/C

ВИБРАТСИ БУЙНОВ АЛЕЗ ВЕЛИШНЕН

ПTРY-1347

DeEPERTON

BICEET

JAFICI

WH/7/HT/Buth Lehman: gt

K1

1- TH/T/HT

ONIKI STAA

ЭАґЕ

E3 S:: L60

IT September 1909

WES RE WLADER

301357028

DRICIBATAS

COOR DULATEG

jen

559$

PALASTES

OPIA STAROL

AFA 06-08

DISPATCH

---

## Page 70

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CUSEFICATION

BEC8ET

DEFATCH OTHEDS SAD NEMEER

HXPI-1347

•n origimlly introduced to WODISH in lew York CIty

by Subject on 15 April 1966.

Until the early fall of

1957, much of YODISH-activity with IDEN A was devoted

to arranging contacts vith various elements of LIZARD,

Which IDEl A requested on behalf of Subject, and

repor t1ng operationel information.

To the best of

TODISH knowledge and bellel, however, nose of these

contacts produced any tangible assistan-e to sukjext"

varlous schenes.

Tita tuo exceptions, ODISE

relatlonship with IDET A since Octoker 1967 3ag ten

exclustrely that of lorelyn intelligence collection.

The exceptions were Sukject's request for a serret

meting with a VOLADY envoy in lay 1969, and an

Independent sinilar request fron another group in

the saze scath.

ade it perfectly clear to MODISH and to Subject

and to the other soup that he vas acting only as

a chamel and that he vas not actively involved or

interested.

"e (WODISH) simply transmitted the

requent.

He wish to point out that wont the Dek

Calla IDE's "Lottying" for Sutject ended telore

October 1967.

During the nearly two years in

Which the contait in the NODISH New York Office

has dealt with IDEY A, the latter has never sponsored

"lobbled" for Sotject's various scheses.

he occasionally relayed information concerning them,

but has told VODISH repeatedly that he to longer

wishes to be tmolred polithally with sabjec:.

Te wish also to point out that IDEX A, ag a

regular supplier of foreign intelligence on Balt,

hmm supplied date waich ort inate with anitans

other tban Sabject, anc, therefore, IDEN A is not

Specificaiiy, Iotd B

and IDEN C are two of IDH A's Initlan sources.

ICKI B is a vell known initian business; IDEN C

forner deputy.

Do (ODISE are not concerned vità Suiject,

tat are very mach so with IDKE A.

We do not tellere

that IDEN A la lavolred in any current revolutionary

Ve are, however, distarted at the

emprolessioal way in which IDEN A handled the question

concerning foreign companies in Halts.

We did not

request IDK A to consult Subject about the reguirement

on foreign companles and, in view of the mer 1a:

which IDEN A handled our requirements,. ve shall

contiane only to accept unfortion which be proffere

on his return from his frequent trips to Baiti, and

Dimll refrain tron briefing his.

OT VOROMP cantoners to give un an evalention of

m A's intelligence reporting.

Unless this eva lution

Is lavorable, ve aball continue to exploit IDa! !

In the manner junt descrited

Pertueen IDE A

and Subject la concerned, (l) ve canmot

Preent IDEN A fron talking to Subject (or anybody

•else), but (2) ve here never ts the past and sell

not in the future requent that IDKIl A comtact Sabject

To date, the VORON talention of IDKI A's

reporting his not teen received.

However, since WODISH

ann airerd to refrata fron triefiny IDEN A prior to any

Iuture trips be any mie to Balll, there should be no

TeCTINCe Of the typI of situntion descrlbed in Bel C.

1001

53a

BBCBIT

I CONTIONED

---

## Page 71

14-00000

Attachment: 0/S/C

HTPU- 1347.

17 Sept 1909

---

## Page 72

14-00000

TO

ATTH:

: MALOU

→ WHY STAFFA

UNTED STATES GO.CIMENT

Memorandum

Director, Domestle Contact Servie

SECRET

1X8632-69

DATH:29 August 1969

DeS Relationship with Louds A. Brar

Ref: IH/Y Memorand», 28 Mey 69, and 19 Aug 69, sume subject

Lo We have carefully considered ii/7'a comments ebout

Louis A. Brun and his relationship ith Cleard Joseph Charles.

have concluded that in the matter of the nine questions concerzinz

the activity of foreiga companies In Fali1 Brun has been guilty a

Least of sloppy security procedures and have decided to modify our

relatlonship vith bir

2o. Cherles has never doubted that Brun represented a

channel to US goverment anthority which be could use to suppierent

his contacts with pembers of the iS Babassy staff in Part-au-Prince.

Brun mis originally fa-roduced to DCS in liew Yors City by Charles ou

15 Apr 1950 (see negorandon IX-251-66). Until the early fall o! 1907,

much of our activity with Brin was devoted to arranging cortacts vitt

verious elements of the US foverent, which Brus requested on be-all

of Chazles, and reporting operational inoration.

To the bes: co

our inowledge and bellet, korever, none of trese contacts prodiced ery

tangible assistance to Charles's various sebeses.

With two excep. 008

our relationship with grun since October 1907 kas been exclusivey that

of foreiga Intelligence coliectica, The excepticus vere Carles's

request for & secret seetlas with a US croy 1a l1y 1969 and 27 1,

dependent sinilar request fron arother group in the same noats. As

has been fully reported, Brun sade It perfectly clear to us and to

Charies and to the otber grcup toat he was actirz orly as a cransel

and that he was not activeiy Irraived of isterested.

He sir:J +1375-

nittee the requests. He wish to point out that seat WE/? calis Ba's

"Lobbying" for Charles ended bezore October 1907, During the LeaiJ

two years in wich Michell bas seals with bris, the latter bes bever

sponsored or "Lobbied" for Charies! a vurious scienes. se has

occasionally relayed intoration conceraing them, but bas told u

repeatedly that he so longer labes to be tavalved politically with

Charles.

SECRET

Bay U.S. Savings Bonds Regular on the Pappall Savings Plann

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SECRET

• 2.

1574632-69

29 August 1969

3.

Ne wish olso to point out that Brun, as a regular

supplier of foreign intelligence on Haiti, has supplied date which

orielnate with faitians other than Charles, and, therefore, that

Frun is not berely Charles's nostpiece.

Specifically, Louis

Leveque and Alfonse Lahens are two of Brun's Faltien sources. Leveque

1s a vell-known liaitian businessman; Labens i8 a former deputy.

We are not concerned with Charles, but are very mich

so with Brun. We do not believe that Brus is involved in ary currest

revolutionary scheme in Haiti.

We are, however, disturbed at the r

professional way in which Erun handled the gestions concerning foreign

companies in Faiti.

Ne did not request sun to consult Charles about

the requirements on foreign compantes and in view of the nanner 1n wich

Bran handled our reguirements ve shall comtime only to eccept 12i0ra

tion sick he proffers on his return from his frequeat trips to Fait1

and shall refrain from briefto bin.

We have requested our Do/I

consters to give us an evaluation of Brun'a intelligence reportia,-

Unless this evaluation is unlavorable, ve shall continue to exploit

Brun in the manner just described. Insofar as contact between Brun

and farles 18 concerned, (a) we cannot prevent Brun fron talking te

barles (or anybody elge) but (b) ve have never in the past and sali

not in the future request that trun contact Coarles on behalf of DC3.

6. Memo puss tie forgoing infocition to i/Y.

Alle:

Icils A. Brin, President

363 Internationml Corporation

230 Flath Averte

Jew York City

•;

SECRET

---

## Page 74

14-00000

Intelligence Information neport

18 28

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

New Opposition Group Allied With

Cleard Joseph Charles/Ou-line of

Charles's Future Political Plans

COIPIDEETIAL

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Supplement to:

NO DISSEM ABROAD

& T AUG 1969

2

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Orponents of Haitian President Francois Duvaller have formed & Del

political opposition grows the follotirz are members; Colore

Cayard (Commandant of be Esitian Coes: Guard); Captein

Daniel (essistant to Cajard); Gerard Constant (Faitian Any Chiel of

2.

3*

and 00-5-321/14515-59 (saragraph 3) ic= selier asta concerning

some of the nembers of this group.

This group is now working with Cleard Joseph Charles and has

formulated, largely under the directico of the later, a testative

political pian for the organization as s Seller Haiti, De

group is anxious to act, because some o? the sebers, notably Daniel

and Cayard, fear that they will be arrested in the not-too-discant

future. The entire verbership displets, bowever, the trait common

to a11 faitian opposition groups: they vill not set until President

Duvaller dies, becomes tosally incapacizated or is overcarou by

somebody else. Jacques is an iaportas: addition to the group.

1s completely loyal to President Duvaller, but has no use for he

other merbers of the Duvalier family. Consequently, he will play no

active part unless the President in some manner disappears tron the

sCene.

This group still wishes to exercise pover during a transitiona

period following Presidea: Duvalier's departure A

Charles does not == to hold any political

appointrent during this trasition period, but plans to recover his

position as the head of the isitian Camber of Comerce and travel

abroad, to raise noney for foreiga ecoconie assistance to Fait.

Be plens to establian a political pary, to be mova as TOP (Iravail,

COEPIDELTIAI

$

NO

in accordance mis parograph & al DEID 117, il may be

in cong i a produce i Do TEn i SMALL NOT DISSENATED TO CONTRACTORS i diS

remed to those comporars af tha deber man's

CHARLES

---

## Page 75

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUPIDIITIAI

-2-

Ordre, Progres). Charles kopes that TOP will become one of to or

three political parties in the post-Duvalier period and is convinced

that TOP will win a constisational vicory at the polla and propel

him to power.

In the meantime, Colosel Keener Blain will be the head

of the provisional goverment.

Blain bas no long-range political

ambitions.

Charles and his colleagues plan a new constitution for

Ha1t1, which will provide for & President and for a prime Minister.

The Prime Minister will exercise the effective pover.

Charles expecta

that TOP's electoral victory vill make his, as TOP's leader, Prime

Minister in the nev constitutional goverment.

This money is to be used to

accuracy of this reported gift

COMF

ID

IAI

---

## Page 76

ands

SAGE FO

ITAL COPES:

SECRET

BOUTIQ ANDIOP INITIALS - SEEM

WITHT

1349-5595

21 AUGUST 1969

CHOLE SICRETARLAT DIASTARMATION

О то моек

• PILE IN CO PULL HO..

- MANCH

W18

fe in sett heatien)

SECRET

Barte and flame 115001)

53 2 Rue 69

101608)

protonasts guessers.

CITE DIRICTOR

919

-70

37845

AKULE DONOPS EVMEND

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR

31844•

131/7131

Ist

BND OF MESSAGE

8130-

*Cable Secretariat: Fis insert bir number.

DEMARIA OFFICIA

SECRET

desirailet en

МИТНЕНТІСАТИ

F#ACE

HEPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ChARlES

come ma

---

## Page 77

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIE:

SECRET

ROUTUNG

BEEN BI

Olds

arts

LET:

DATES

RH/7/HT

1349-5595

21 AUGUST

1969

CARE RECHETARIAT DISSEMINATIONI

Eт..

COmF

• IMDEX

• NO INDEX

• FILE IN CO FOLE 10. -

BAANCH

10118

(einstficationg

SECRET

folitel

(ріса)

--то

idote and the fitou)

11 21 532 70d69

6a /7/Ht

Chief

LITE DIRECTOR

Exs Dif

ARULE DONOPS EVEND

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 26288

To her Myu CONTACT

WIT

1. ON 21 AUGUST, IDEN, WODISH NEW YORK REP WHO HANDIES

LOUIS A. BRUN, SUBJECT OF REF, PHONED WODISE FASHINGION

OFFICE TO INQUIRE IF SYKEND-I OR THE BHEND ORGANIZATION

WAS OF INTEREST TO RVROCK, BASIS FOR INQUIRY IS THAT BRU

HAS REPEATEDLY MENTIONED TO IDEN THAT EVENDI AND HIS

RR

ORGINIZATION ARE DEEPLY INVOLVED IN EXILE WORK IN NEW YORK

AND THAT BRUN SUSPECTS THEY HAVE SOME CONNECTION WITH

RVROCK. WODISH REPS SPECULATE THAT BRUN SEEKING CON-

FIRMATION OF RVROCK CONNECTION AND THAT BRUN MAY TRY

PENETRATE EVMEND ORGANIZATION.

2. WODISH WASHINGTON REP WAS INFORMED THAT EVSEND-I

AND HIS ORGANIZATION ARE OF INTEREST TO WOMACE AND THAT

IDEN SHOULD REFRAIN FROM MAKING ANY CONTACT WHATSOEVER

WITH THEM. WODISH AGREED PASS ABOVE TO IDEN AND SUGGEST

WODISH RELATIONS WITH BRUN BE DISCONTINUED.

3. IN VIEN ABOVE, REQUEST CLEAND TELL SYMENDI

CONTINUED. ... •

COORDINATINO OFFICERI

SECRET

AUTHCANN®

REPIOOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 78

14-00000

MESSAGE FOUN

TOTAL COPES:

SECRET

HOUTIRE AND/DS IS TIALS - TEEN EV

EXT:

CAHLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

#V

PER

COW:

D INDEX

О по трех

'HUE D CO FILE NO. -

_ BACH Cam

FILE. VH.

(ar immedication)

SECRET

polite:

_(pical

adate and time foled)

PAGE THO

CITE DIRECTOR

7.31844.7

DROP ANY CONTACT HE NAY HAVE WITH BRUN, SINCE BRUN SUSPECTS

FEE CONNECIED WITH RUROCK AND MAY BE TRYING CONTIRM.-

4. FILE: 36-124-25/3.

END OF MESSAGE

WE CONKENT:

BRUN,

who collaborator of Clenard Joseph

CHARLES on political natters

contact of ODISH, N.Y. office.

in Haiti, 1s

DOL/E

18006-11

COOIOERATIIO OFFICE

8 IC BE T

IN MY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

TENTICATIN

SPACE

can de

ine Stan

---

## Page 79

SECRET

15 AL3 S89

MORIDAl FOR! Director, Domestle Contact servies

SUBJECT

8 DCS Case 47540 - Contact with

Louts A. Brun/Clenard Joseph Charles

1. On 29 July 1969,

advised

that Cleard Joseph Charles had passed & liat of nine

questions concerning the Faitian econouy to an offlelal

of the United States Ambassy in Port au Prince.

The liat

of questions vas written in English in staadard U.B.

Governt forzat and, although sterfle, appeared to be

intelligence requirements.

Charles told the Embassy

offscial that he had just I1rlabed a "big Job" for the

Pentagon and laplied that the list also case fron the

Pentagon•

The Labassy offietal suspected that Charles

had passed a copy of the list to the National Palace.

On 2 August, & representative of the Vialt

Denk contactedl

Stati of Dos, and learned that the

had briefed Mr. Loul. A. Brun and had orally passed a

sist of CIlL requirements to Brun concerning Haiti prior

to hle tolo to Baiti during the week of 21 July.

DOB requiresents on paper and then had presed a copy

to Charles upon his arrival in Haltl.

S. For a number of years, the United States Govern

ment has been avare of the political anbitions of Charles

and his alleged plotting to overthrow the Duvaller regime.

In 1067, the rather open plotting led to his imprison

ment for over one year.. Also, since lay 1963, Charles

has been trying to obtain support fron the United States

Government for his plots but he has been consistently

rebuffed.

Charles is not held in high esteem by u.a.

0111c1als and ble notivos are highly quentionable.

owen his position in Haits to his relationhip "1th

Duvaller and his ability to successfully manage some of

SECRET

Chaelies Yele

---

## Page 80

---T

the more notorious financial rackete of the repla' plou"

Charles enjoys no political folioring and even tre

with nich he is associated are viewed with considerable

DeBOrPe.

for example,

ve haTe never been able to confir

that Charles me Involved vith

the

"military junta" formed

Im May 1963, as be clained. In February 1959, the U.8.

Inbassy In Port au Prince comented that, tith regard to

the most recent plotting of charles, "the possibility

ennnot be exclured that Charles.... Could be 1 morocation

to detoratne the real notives of the United States Govern

mont towards the Duvalier regtae."

We concur in the

Ibars's view.

4. During the past three jeers, the Il Divlsion Eas

been Lept adviaed of the contact botween DCS and Brun and

his relationship vith Charles.

We are also avare fron

DCB and cther sources of the efforts by Brun to obtain

support fron the United States Government for Charles.

Brun 18, of Course, a close collaborator of Charles and

a businees representative of his in New York City.

Bran

has contacted officials of the Depertment of Defense,

the Department of State, and even a person with access to

Preslient Johnson on Charles" behalf.

The Chief of

Caribbean Affairs of the Department of State c-tegorically

told Brun 1n June 1967 that the United Btates Goverment

was not Interested in supporting the plots of Charles or

anyone ele gainst Duvalter, but this advico seems to

have fallen on deaf ear.

The most recent example of

Brun's lobbylag une ia lay 1969 when Brun passed on to

DC3 & request from Charles for a secret neeting between

• U.I, evoy and a representative of the "nilitary jurta."

Brun"s Involvement with Charles requires that he be con

midered a biased source of Infortlon.

While song of the

Information Brun has obtalned fron Charles has been of

Interest, there is tardly anything that vas not avallable

through other channels and indeed, mch of it vas slanted.

5. As was set forth 1u MY mencrande to the

Operational Support Stall, DOS, on 16 July 1968 amd

28 May 1989, ve Intorpone no objection to DCS utatletn

contact with are for its on purposes. Horever, the

---

## Page 81

14,00000

CRORET

Polatlonship bo:rron Brus anc Charles ans now takes o

operational characterletica (gent/rab igent) sita ran

levylog requiresente on Charles in Faitt to service ou

behalf of bcs.

The relatlership between Brun and Charles

nise As snifested political and security aspecte tell

coald adversely affeet the interests of the United Statem

Government regarding Ral!1. decordingly, ve requent

that the coutact betwees Brue and Carles on behalf el

DCs be ternlaated.

st

Distillatio.:

Addresse

1

C/ED

WE/T/Et Chrone

1

, - WI/7/HT (CRARIES)

- 3.

SECRET

---

## Page 82

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSICA DE

SECRET

Chiet, Western Henisphere Division

FONSENS ACTION

MARKEN FOR MDELIG

HE NDONING RESUS

OILY DAUSER DESE

BIRDULE

1174P

• Subject ot 201-357029

ACTICE REQUIRES - HEPERSNCES

REFERENCES: A DIRECTOR 26288 dated 1 August 1969

B. HTPA-2443 dated 29 July 1969

ACTION REQUIRED: See Paragraph 5.

views on

the WODISi contact, through Identity of Paragrash 1

Reference A (hereinatter IDEN), with 201-357029, as well

as cn the question of the requirezents which 201-157029

gave LIFLE and which were forwarded to Headquarters in

Reference B.

Since IDEN has been told that his contact is with

LESHOE and since he has told 201-357029 that fact, and since

201-357029 has apparently,

in his sind at least, converted that

fact into contact with RVROCK, and has probably spread both

stories with his associates and thereby throughout the local

milieu, ve have, in eifect, a dangerous security situation.

When we consider that the LNPURE receives all the information

The 200-35700 dies To 2e 357020, then the tvee receives

operation that is ditticult to justity.

3.

in the case of the requirements forwarded wich

Reference B, we have a situation in which WODISH levied

requiresents on 2U1-357029, through IDE.

201-357029

then turned those requirements over to INPURE which returned

then via 201-357029 and IDEN to WCDISH.

Why not cut out the

middleman and the security complications, and save the headaches?

The Station teels that the ECDISH handling of 201-357U29

results in a case that has the potential of causing severe

problens for AKULE, and that it could well be that ruF will

be made to bear the blame since elements within RVROCK might

feel that the ultimate responsibility tor supervision of the

Distribution:

AS COPY

КTPA-2457

SECREI

TALE

19 August 1969

DOS PE NUI

201-357029

---

## Page 83

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

LaSticATes

SECRET

АКРАТСА ПОДІВ АРУ ВІРОВЗІ

HTPA-2457

be would appreciate obtaining Headquarters vleus

on our thoughis as expressed above as well as on what seems

to be a contradiction between Reference A, paragraph 2 and

the evidence presented in Reference B Attachment.

It appears

unlikely to us that IDaN could have typed the Attachment.

in: ;

207530

53€

SECRET

201-357027

STINED

---

## Page 84

FEI DOCUVENT

LATE: 17 AUGUST 1952

CLASSIFICATION: RONE JIVEN

SUBJECT:

CLEVARD JOSEPH CHARLES

FEI FILE TO: 105-6311 (MIANI)

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-134

DATE: 13 AUGUST 1969

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDEXTIAL

FROM AMEVEASSY PORT AU PEINCE

SUBJECT:

FINANCIAL ACTIVTTIES OF CLEVAED

JOSEPH CHAFIES

---

## Page 85

Crig 4,69

HRNOAIDUN FOR : Chiel, Domestle Contact Bervice

SUBJECT

• DCS Case 47540 • Contact with Louls A.

Brun/Clenard Joseph Charles

1.

On 29 July 1968

advined

that Cleard Josept Charles had passed a llot of nine

quentlona concerning the Haltian econory to as official

of the Unlted Staten Embassy in Port au Prince.

The list

of questions ons written in Inglish in standard 5.8.

Covernment forbat und, although aterile, appeared to be

intelligence requirements.

Charles toid the Ratassy

officlal that he had just finished a "11g Job" for the

Pentagon and implied that the list also came fron the

Pentagon

The Embausy official suepected that Charles

had paneed a covy of the list to the National Palace.

i. On & Aucrat. & representative of the WHHaiti

Deck contacted

Staff of DC?, and learned that thel

bad brlefed Mr. Louin A. Frun and had orally passed a list

of CIEl roquiresenta to Erun concerning Initi prior to bia

trip to Halts during the neck of 21 July.

•peculated that Brun had probably noted the Dos requirementa.

on peper and then had pansed a copy to Charles upon him

oreloal in Haltd.

for a arter of years,

the Caited Stater Government

no been aware of the political ambitions of Charles and

his alleged plotting to o' erthron the Duvalier regine

1987, this sather open plotting led to his imprisonmone for

over

ose year

Also, since May 196J.

Charles has been trying

to obtain mupport from the

United States Coverment for bin

plota but he has been consistently rebuffed

Charles is not

hold in hish enteen by U.S. o!Ilciale and his notives are

highly questionablo

He owes his position in Halt to his

rolntion hip with Dvalier and his ability to successfully

manage none of the more notor 1ous

finnnelal rackets of the

regime

Charles enjoys no political following and even the

"plote" with which he la unsociated are viewed with ron

olderable reserve

Por exasple, "e

ante never been able to

confirm that Charles van involved with the "military junta"

formed 18 May 1960,

be. clalaed.

in February 1968, the

52020T

761357029

---

## Page 86

14-00000

U.S. Rabanny in fort au Prime conented that. with

regard

to the sout re ent plotting of Charles, *the

possibility cannot

be excladed that Charles

could be a pro: oration to determine

the real nott e8

of the United States Co-erment toward the

Duvalier regime "

We comur in the labassy's & Jews.

During the past three years, the VH Dirimion bas

been kept ad leed of the conta:& tetween DCS and Brun and

hie relationsalp vith Charles

We are also avare from

DC3 and other sour es of the efforts ly prun to oltain support

from the United Staten Coverment for Charles

Brua 18, of

course, a close ‹ollaborator o! Charles and a businees

representatire of his in lew York City

Brun ban contacted

offlila!s of the Department o! Drlerse.

the Departuent of

State, and

even a person

with a.ceas to Preeident Johnson

on Charles' behalf

The Calel of Cariblean Affal-a of the

Department of State catesort ally told Brun

in June

1967 that

the United States Goerment was not interested in supporting

the plote of Charles

or alyose else aginat Duvalier. tut

this rosire seen to have "allen on deat ears

The nost

recent emaple o! Brun's lotbying was 1n lay 1969 when Eras

passed on to DCS a request from

Charles fo. a se-ret nceting

betcen a U.b

• and a represcntative of the "ollitary

Junta "

Brun's lavolve

vith Charlen requires that be te

conuidered a blaned asurce

ot inforeation

While some of the

inforontid Brun

i citalor from Charles ino Deen of

Interest, thre 18 hardly saything tost van not asailable

through other channels and indeed, sach of 1t was slanted

5

As too ner porth ln tHiy memorandums to the

Operational Support State, Dou, on 16 July 1989 am 38 My

1960.

ve Interpone no objection to DCS saintaining contact

w1th Brus for 1ts on purposes.

However. the relationship

between Brun

and Chorles bas nou taken on operatiom!

characteristics (agent/sub-arent) with Brun levying require-

mentm on Charleu

Haltl to service on behit of DCS.

The

relationship be

Bron and Charles alao bs maifented

pol1t1ral

and security amperte which could

adversely affe.t

the Interent of the United States Government regarding Falt!.

Mccordingly, ve requent that the contact between Brun and

Clenord Jocept Charles on behalf of ca be terminated.

Cases FO

Western Benlapbere Divialon

SECRET

---

## Page 87

14-00000

BOU ANG ATTICA INITIALS • SEEN BY

OH@:

EISH LEDIAN; AVg

13/7/HT

EAT'S

DATE:

5595/1349

1 SEGUST 1969

CABLE MECRITAALAT OLISEMINATICN

DieR

COm:

LiNg

S-3-C-R-E-I

DIS DEX RETURN TO -:

- BRANCH. FILERO

TO T

1912a1

(ede andication)

S - E-C-R-E-T

loat and fine filed)

na jole

CITE DIRECTOR 52881

REF:

(IN 22581)*

1. PER REP REQUEST, ONE LUIS BRUS, WELI, ENON COLLABORA=

TOR OF SUBJECT REY ON POLITICAL MATTERS IN HAITI, IS CONTACT

OF VODISE OFFICE, NEW YORK. PRIOR TO BRUN'S TRIP TO FAITI,

WEET OF 21 JULY, FODISH BRIEFED BRUN AND ORALLY PASSED LIST

OF CIRI REQUIRELENTS ON ESITI. FYI, BRUN BELIEVES WODISH

CONTICT IS FROY DEPENSE AD THAT REQUIRPIENTS LEVIED DE DOD.

2. IT NODISE BELIET THAT BRUN PROBABLY NOTED REQUIRE=

MENTS ON PAPER FOLLOWING BRIEFING, AND PASSED COPY TO SUBJECT

REF UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN EAITI.

AF

AB

3. FYI, SUBJECT REI WAS REGISTERED IN INTERAGENCE

SOURCE REGISTER UNTIL 17 MARCH 69, WHEN ACSI TERMINATED HIM,

P$

WITHOUT PREJUDICE. SUBJECT WELL KNONN FOR HIS REPEATED

-B#

ATTEMPTS OBTAIN USG BACKING FOR HIS C

A PLANS TO

2-120

OVERTHRON DUVALIER.

ALBARIO OFFICIA

Continued

CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS

S-E € 2-E: T

ION BY OTHER THAN THE IS JUINS OF. ICE IS PROHIBITED.

201-357029

01 ALIG 69

LATHENTICATH

OFFIGER

Com

---

## Page 88

38168

SIT:

JATE:

80 ..

CONF:

BOUTING AAD/ON INITIALE - BEEN BY

Q PURINCE FILINO

ERRACE SHH

TOT Ad

SOPIE:

S-E-C-R-E-T

-SEr

Dennis PH 59 cruncH

•PED

Оны no

FILE. WH

sals asilicazion)

S-E-C-R-E-T

Reical

(eno doul Rice files)

ACTIONS.

CITE DRACTOR 26Z88

PAGE 2

FODISH BRIEFED ON CONTENTS RET AND PROXISED TAKE CORRECTIVE 1

FILE:

201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH Comment:

Cleard Joseph CHARLES passed list of questions.

to EXBOFF re Eaitian econony.

Advised Emb.

he had finished "big job" for Pentagon. Advise

11 Jat of VORIB! orIgIn.

--?.

• $1 03

WILLIAY V. BROF

C/WED

COORDINA GO OSPIERRA

S-E-C-P-E-T "

REPRODUL DON BY OTHER IMON THE INTUIR'C OFFICE IS PROMIAITED.

AUTHENTICANAU

OFFICER

.. Cort to

---

## Page 89

BLE SECPETAHAT Dest

FROW UNT HOTHED

FETA CORES 22 POT MANORIN

SECRET -ET

ATHA BY

JHANCECO

SLOTTES

30

PACE

*fam to piss no.

FRE tO T MT. TO

OESTICYLLG

DAD COPY

Jaura RIAN DOt ADP ADOP CDO 5Z CI

шH8

F402

SECRET 29205 E JUL

DIRECTOR INF

(RACICOT ACT ING)

29 J. 69m 12581

ARULE DOMOPS EVME ND

L I GLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES PASSED TO EMBOFF COPY OF LIST

OF 9 QUESTIONS WRITTEN IN EXCISH DEALING WITH HAITIAN ECOTOMY •

PERTIONED HE HAD JUST FINISHED "BIG JOB" FOR PENTAGON AND

IMPLIED LIST ALSO CARE FROM PENTAGON. ALTHOUGH STERILE, QUES-

TIONS WRITTEN IN STAVARD GOVERMPENT FORMAT AND APPEAR TO BE

INTEL REQUIREMENT SO

1. 2

LIST TO HQS OSLY PER HI PA 2443 DID

29 JULY SINCE CAUNOT DUPLICATE LOCALLY VOULD APPRECIATE

LEARNING IF LIST IS OF VOFIRM ORIGIN. FYI ERBOFF SUSPECTS

CHARLES HAS PASSED LIST AT PALACE AND STATION THEREFORE FEELS

SECURITY ASPECTS RE HANDLING CHARLES BY ANY USG AGENCY SHOU.D

BE REVIEWED • SINCE CHARLES HAD PASSED LIST TO EMBASSY FOR

ANSVERING OF QUESTIONS, IT WOULD APPEAR "INTELLIGENCE" COULD

HAVE BEEN OVERTLY OBTAINED.

?.. FILE: 201-357029.

SECEET

SECRET

---

## Page 90

14-00000

astic diso

DISPATCH

OASSAFICANOM

SECRET

Chief, Western Henisphere Division

1/10

PROCESSONG ACTION

MARKED FOR MEEKHE

NO BIOCKENG ACCLARES

OIRT QUALFIED DESH

CAN JUDGE NICOENG

BRACROFEM

Subject of 201-357029

ACTADO RETIRED - REFERENCES

REFERENCE:

lated 29 July 1969.

Per Reference attached is the list of questions

given Subject.

Attachent:

as stated above (h/w)

Distribution:

3 - C/AHD w/att h/w

CS COPY

HTPA-2443

CASSERCANO

29 July 1969

WAGE FRA MANNE

201-357020

---

## Page 91

14-00000

US terminers are settire up substay coupanies 10 10191 or e=297205

patrerstire Wich Fal:'an enterpolies to froduce such ltese as underress, base-

calls, [coticar and other export lies. Iney use jaition Ia:1l1tles ans aster-

lals laparted fros the US.

2. Are tange inopets that otser curandas ere enterias to piole

eterials)?

3o 1111 thece entarzales expand? lou loortant void it be 30

I 1'1 1l case entorises expandell discontionad potuction!

to that aralcles are prodarad?

To Lou do se dobertle scalers and to li importaTe Poel abort

cecile aT Prosidest Daller to there any dIffinition

Isve Incitan: conditlons 1n Balt: changad aince then et

Fiona begs opersting?

B. Does the Instian vortire Inai of education a tact their

012100.

mperera cantalbura to tan social sturity fund

ES COFY

201-357029

---

## Page 92

14-00000

SECRET

28 "lay 1000

NEA IDON FOR :

Disector, Domentle Costact Bertice

Operational Sapport Staff

ATTLETION

ВСВ ЛСТ

Deg Case 47540 - Request by Haltlan

Opposition Croup for Secret Interter

T1th 0.8. 01f1cla1

Desk on 15 and 27 lay 1989 concerniag the requeat sade

112-50

throach Me. Louis A. Brus on the above subject.

Dur 198 these

conversations, your silice ma adulued that the VI Division

Daa nO LItereSt lE COaLICIlS any reprosentative or sente:

of the plottle sOND.

3. The VA Division considers Cleard Josept Charles

to be a perennial anti- araliar plotter in Port au jalace

with little sars or folloing to carry out bis anti-govern

meet designs.

Du tag sho veer of 11 lay 1969, cansles

aypranched lue Eatassy la POrt au PaLACe MIeS LaSicalLy Ch

sast Intornation as relayed to the

ty Me. Bean.

Tan only difference was that be did sor request

that a U.8. Governent oillcinl mie coatact uith the lateral

1 270

Isol the U.S. Coverent would loot benerolently on tie tresp

launcaed.

The intossy replied that the

U.8.

Government bad a firm polley not to Intervene 1n sach

untters and that no sach asmurance could be maprctee.

Since 1967, Charles has made alailar ouT tErPS tO

the D.S. Goversa% ¿or sappor? of bia anti-goverament plans.

Uben rertenlas these approoches, tsere has slays bees som

doubt as to the accuracy of the Information that Charlen

(or Bean) ma lursisbre. Thile

it dan accepted that Calries

uns actumlly plotting amiat Duvaller, It could sever be

determined 1i so vas actually a seaber of the plottles erous.

nich unnily included umbers of the Halthan Arty, or 11

Charles had •Imply Cecome avre of an anti-Dwaller plot aad

ms trying to act an a troker betueen the plotters and the

2025

SECRET

---

## Page 93

SECRET

- 1-

VoU. Oovernarat for lie en laterenta.

d. At the present fine, fairly rellable repartu have

bren rocodred tont cortala officiale of the Badilna Army

dieu.

overthIc Duvaller, Should la recover, but no far bave dol

entabilated a sinor:le on deelded how they latred to carry

out the coup.

Also, ian 1llsess of Duvalder has undoubtedly

InSpIrod aDil-DIVuller D1O881E8 Do Other Croupe da 291t1

but no rOllable 1a'0.110 to arelLble on tol plaas. 18

la Interestlag to sose tat Cleard Joseph Charles La not

Idestitled so s plotter la an o1 lan reporte fran lateral

полжев.

An ms metlosed in the MuT amorandun dated

16 July 1868, De do sos inserpode asy objoedlea to 503

motalsing contact oils Brun for 110 on arposes. Borerer,

rival tant la the intoronto of cocurity and also li con

BEEE

formance wIlD U.8, poiley, that Bona should clearly ander-

stand Shad ve sive no laterest in establlshing contaet eith

ang soster of the toreranl croup through ble chaaned and

further bat the V.a, covernmat bas no Interest la beconias

Livolved la a anti-Daraller activitles.

Distributlon:

. 1

•Addressi

-WET

8 - 81/7/1T (0111588110)

SECRET

---

## Page 94

SUNCLASSIFIED

SUMECT: (Optenef

MITE

USE ONLY

I CONFIDEA. AL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Bequest by. Faitian Opposition Group Por Secret Interview

vich US Orticlal

EXD ШОК

NO.

2268

SECRET

10:

withing!

DO/DC3L

"ad

RECER ED

½z

26467

NILAL

POWARDED

CaBe 47540

23 May 1969

to where

For your information.

3 B 00Q1 Eg.

shindey starsa.

%

30.

12.

POIN

Д-ла

610 " eve

SECRET

COMFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE QULI

UNCLASSIFIEN

---

## Page 95

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 96

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

•SECRET

USE OWLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SURECT: Optional

Clemard Joseza Charles

2268

TOs (Oles designation, mon

various, and

DATE

INTALS

NO.

Case 47540

DATE

21 May 1969

COMMENTS a line to as chan do too to many

do whor

RECENED

PORWARDED

DO/DOST.

WH/7/HT

3 B 0001 Ene

DC/WH/7

For your information and file.

WHIT/HT

SECRET /SENSITIVE

10.

610 " 1 SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

ISE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 97

td-itnod

DO CLEMADO JASEP" CHADIES, U4O MAS STATED D! MATONIS MOCACIỘНЄ qHA

LHUO0 USOIMIG SOI OhA LNT jLITh S0 AHBUlSOd dide Snd d6 771A 3

MIRSELE A PEOSONAL FALLOMIRR OE TDINISLS СОЕРТу ОРеСеТО ТаТЧЕ

ROVERNNIUT OF POESYDENT DINALIEO ACDLIECTOR'S NOTES SEE

SI SäGlOJEd SOlLLIr ISHIVOY MiLOO LUNL CZaUTOSE AOi SeN

GIMSITÉAGOLE 3O NOD DRO dOUR AUCHiSSAO SOGGITUNIG LENA GAN SNILUTOdiL

DH•INE TWE MONTH SE JINE 195SO ME MAS SET A I JUIY 1959 DEALINE

FOO qUE ACCOMPLISUMENT OF MIS BOAL, CUARLES MAE ALSO STATES THAT

S.dU10377000 SaiDue ACIliSEdãO aJHlO ISAvOsa SONaSSa 3HL 16 SI iNiL

NITES POESUMARLY, HE PEFEDS TO DUE D0 TOTE DF TUOSE GOMUPS LISTED IM

MAY TRY TO ACT REFODE ME CAM. CHAPLES LISTS NO

PEASON FOR TUE SPECIFIC TIE LIMIT OF ! I"LY 1999.

20 CHAPLES YAS DEQUESTED TMAT "JHE PENTAROS" CSPECIFICALLY, MIS

130335 U IiDeDiO STCEid JOVACN T3N070S "AGtlaSro3lAl aJnclis

GA NACO SAUT 3N "HIN OL XTOL GL AUANI

MCIS MỰ TH CINEN MNE

Na23 SEM 1S30036 Sini •30Nlad-lc-lcod al iili O1 AIri 7714 Alavmilssod

"adMiaUalie E373617

- EYD

SE C "E TISENSITIVE

geshee

---

## Page 98

SECRET

Fo37e8 I000

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

L'OCLARENT IDENTIFICATIOHE

AN A V฿T

18. CHOIS BITCHOTO FO THIS EULE

mI FILE NO.

DISPARIN ON

somer bos.

55906

FHOCES5&D

ritaris veronica, pose as invo: 1a

O OISSEMIRNTIOI

IF. DATE

DOCUMENT DISRESITION

113.

TRANSEAREID TO

PERTINENT

IAFCHMATION

CHIÄLES,

CLEMAND JOSEPH

201-357027

SEX " NUl ?

CIT HAITI

OCC ?

& HAITI

MER OF OPPOSITION CP.

W36009-106

Priff- 00024

13 MAY

69

NDCUNDHTP

6907311254

RI

FILE IN 201-

357029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

067 ese seemed

SECRET

89•081

---

## Page 99

69h0/00

•C99177%83° KATTI

WITH US CREICIAL

1:. O9E O5 THE INDEEACOINS APPOCITIOI CROUPS TO MATT! IC

CENTERES IN THE FOLLCHING COIVIDALGE BU LATES OPE LAYERS

STATO LAG QUENGE 12A0706 1d52Sa6r266. 021SYno21a5Ao dast so 66316.

THEY VISH-TO DERATIZE A JUITS, FOLLOWINS THE DEATH D9 FETIRRTENT

OF MAITIA"' PRESIDENT DIVALIER, AND SYRACIRE POVER BUNTIE A TORISITION

PERIODO FOLLOYIUS THE TRUSITION PERIOD, THIS COP MICHES TO YALE

MES ELIMTIONS MID THEY PETIRE FROM FOLIFICEL ROTINTY. LAVENEELE

LIST. TO RECOME A IVISTER® ELAIN MOULD LIVE A SIFIDATIC APFCINTHETT.

PAYARD PSILE LIXE TO RETIRE TO HIS CATALE SANCE THE SPOUP Y4G 30

"PARTICLE? CANDIEUTE FOR FOESIDENT.

2O THIS ENDUP ALLEGES TYA? IT COM"ATOS WIDE SUFPOPT AROUS APHY

FEPSONNEL IN POST-AL-PRINCE AND IY TIE MITIA" HINTEFLAND.

TYE SPOUR IS PEPOGTEOLY VILLING TO MORE GITH ANY OTHER CPPOSITIOY

SOOUP, EXCEET THE COMMNTISTS SIT IT DOE; SCT URIT TO APPEAS

PPLICLY SHOLDEY TO THE US DO TO ANY CHE? "SPIRITINY POVER.

1. .

3 TRITIL RECUTLY, THE PLAS DE THIS POND WAS TO SIT RACE, VAIT

DED INTERIAL UPHEAVALS AUD THEN MOVE IN TO dESITE POUR?O THEY DID

UNT MATT TO RET MY TUEI? CYS, BUT PREFETRES TO TAVE ADUAITAGE OF "

---

## Page 100

• мр

1iIS X33 JiS 1a SEGIA'S da SIUld WHOS Loc S3611 4506 SIl

ni Salon Quinta Chi Sensio de such asua Si Sid hava Sii li 317:

*ZAJia

TA DEAL ETAL ENIECES DAL NO S3000 20175AE0

1430IaZ6g SO 4106 6h Lord Cho 20n0aS3 ZAL S0 SI RAd LEAd 5007230

ATTA DOLITO LAGGISE: MuI:caon0d BuCha 11B0E0 1506 3r8 9g

00000-b1

---

## Page 101

14-00000

ENYOY VAS APLE T. SPE: F2I101

SECR

E TASLRSITICO

---

## Page 102

Intelligence Information Repurt

52799977

'CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUNECT

Falta

Repeated Finel Ters for dread of

Gestling Corcession/ Mend

Joseph-Charlen Inal nest

COIIIDIAL

REPORT NO.

- DATE DESTR

NO. PAGES

LEFEIENCES

NO DISSEM ABROAD

₴ 1 APP. 1969

* +5.

Jo As jat of his errant to oozin ore's exchange, Falti's President

Duvalien has decided to ani a frolina emcession. A lS sydicate,

EUOS1StIng Of a JeN Yor'S CitY IT, Jayaote Associates, and or Count

Keel Leritci, Biston of tre Inerjees Eisedor Carca, has bees

tryiag to 055a1a tse concession. (Collector's liote: see reference

for additional details,/.

2.. De Bishop has severed his consections with leynote, Wilch bandardei

besert Dralter Viss telegrans end made an unennounced trip te

Ente to obtain the concess.lo

has they would not receite tire concessica. President Duvalle

relies very bearily upon hacé for adriee sad guidance in econonde

natters •

Noost at the see time scat leyaste receired hadé's telegres,

Cénard Josers-Baries netlied the Estop test be lould re-

eette the ecssessian Ga sce fallowing teras:

i Be

A new group of associates of the 3ishop will recein

O percent of the puss recetras arom the concession

Do

she Coverment el Jaiti Will receive 10 percent of the

gross recelpts.

Co The Alshop and His chief parter will receive five pr

cent of the gross receipts.

COIPIDEITIAL

1E

(al 0))

---

## Page 103

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COTTILITIAL-

NO DISSEM ABROAD

the remaining fire percent of the cross receipts sill be

used by tie lisbo?, reportediy tre isltina supervision,

#to begia constructica of secools and calli care centers

In E2it1, Tiese secoois and cecters will be under the

muspices of the lue-scaa Ostrodos Curch.

Joser' Charles's aborship of the telegres which ritually pranised.

*ze concession to the ner gros? Indicates tist his fortunes may be

on the mend. He cestainly cocid never have sest rich & nessage wit

cot the approval of Presider, Derlier, "s, be vas perudtted to

send It indicetes that the Presideat my be begtaning to 100k spas

his more favorably then he has done 10 the recent part.

---

## Page 104

Incelligence Information Report

DITIONC

CONTROLLED DiSSEM

COUPATRY

SUNECI

Ea"t1

Possible I froreeit in Partures of

Cleard Josepi-Ja-les/ fossiole Peason

for President Jraller's Jarsh Treat-

ment of Charles/Zeligse of Iue-ilbert

Poucara

COSPIDEETIAL

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTI

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

2

Seemlemant to.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

8 APR 1969

1o

During recest seess, the fortunes o" Clerand Josgeh-urates seem

# have impress

Se has bees jiaying a sot unagaract sole 1a

the mard of te initian fabitto conceision Collector"s toe:

see reference,, an cotitity suica is desized to bring to ia111

sone tedig-sealed forele: exchange. Altacaga I do at bellere

sat ta sats Busident Paralian ee gregently as be used to filer

to his incareration, he does see to have recovered sose of abe

confidence valen the Resicent used to repose la bize

2.

One reason for President Devalier's dislise of Caries (and ce

castle nonsen site testient everally tarry nia in 11a

i trat Charles sas irstzental in ringing about the terri

of the president's daughter, yanie-jenise Duralier, to Colosel

Sarles and lenie-denise have vees close riends

for tiny years farle-Denise bense regrant iy Doninique and

reat to Charles for kelf.

Farles ties Intervered with resi

dest Duvalle, so was anious, end persuaded his to egree to

the marriage.

The Presidest las bitterly engry zù Dostrigse and

somersat unsay blavel curles so tse terriago. fe sentes to

the recessity. for the redding, but resented its ser s0a-12-lm

13, by association, so to speat, resented Charles.

the Presitent

and Denique kare formally reconclied. me President not Cajorel

on nique do the airport, len the latter returned to Enlia, asi

made a point of invitin his son-in-inv to ride in the pestential

Liarsine fors the alpart to the palace. Ie perpose vas &

lencastrate the burial ol did endges. It recstis to be sees,

however, Wether or to: the reconciliation was genuine and wether

er not the President has really forgiven his son-In-LaV.

XIO

than

COTTIDBUTIAL

" CASE CANATO TO CONTRACTORS"

---

## Page 105

14-00000

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COIIDENTIAI

-2.

NO DISSEM ABROAD

3°

Iuc-Albert Boreard, Faitian lUnister o° Touris=, 's now in politi-

cal, 11 not personal, eclice.

He no longer goes to his office.

The flew York City manager of the Faltian Tourist Jureau, Jean

Sorel, 1a 13 Jaiti and 15 acting in Foucard's stead.

Razah

Teodore, Deputy Director of Touries, 18 aniable ad 15 8 friend

of President Duraller:

Fe 13, however, of little stature and

1s not capabie of doing anytning more than the rossine daily

chores of the office.

Foucard cannot afford to call attention

to hinself, becase he is earful for the physical sally of

his sister, ladaze Sairt-iictor.

President Duvalier recently

dismissed he- as his persous. secretary and replaced hei with

his daughter, irtle of Colonal lax Dominique. Since then, runera

have abounded teat ladene Saint-Victor say be sariced for phys1-

cal liquidation [Collector's Tote: see reference.]. Whether

or not these -Jora have asy foundation in fact, tere 13 no

doubt that the sembers of the Foucard fantly (1 e, Iuc-Albert,

Kadase Sa1at-I1clor and tbeir sister, "adare Bella Foucard

Poltrien bate all sade trescives as Inconspicious as possible.

The Fresident's change In secretaries has led to a diminution

of the power and influence o. the Foucard clan.

COJFIDEITIAL

---

## Page 106

17trauck69

SECRET

(Khen Filled In)

REGISTRATION REQUEST

28,910

DATE

*0 г по.

357029

NRWE

CHARLES, Clemard Joseph

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATICAS

DATE CF BIRTH

PRESENT RODRESS

PRESENT EMPLOYMEMT

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITERENSNIP

OCCUPATION

ADDITIONEL PERTINENT IDENTIFYSSE DATA

SD

11612 is terminated without prejudice by the Depariment of the iray.

For additional information, you are referred to the Army Source Registry.

DATE: 17 Mar 69

SECRET

(rhen Filled In)

GROL? - 1

EXCLEDED FROM ALTONATIC

DORNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

FORM 1797

---

## Page 107

DEPT OF STATE AIRCRAN

A-I4

FROM AMEMBASS: PORT AU PROICE

DATE: 1 FE=RUARY 1959

CLASSIFICATIO:: SECRET

SUSJECT: ALLEGED PLOT OF CISVARD JOSEPH CHAFIES

---

## Page 108

UNCLASSIFIED.

MITCAN AL

ONLY

CO CONFES TIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUUECT: (Opionel)

FIRE

Letters fros Cleard Charles, Haiti, to US Officials and Businessmen

EXTENSION

DCS Case 47540

BAJE

2268

10 January 1969

TO: 10he

rendictan

DATE

OffCER'S

INTALS

По грот.

SECRET

HECEVED

18.1000

FORWARDED

DO/DCSL

X/NH/7/Haiti

3 B 0001, Hqs.

3.

Attached, for your inforcation,

is copy of PllI-457-68, with

attachment.

21468

VL

3.

r. Retarn t

ATTN: VINCE

7-E-03

10

11.

12

To 8: Plo file

in charles dor

610 " NONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE CALY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 109

UNITED STATES GOVERIMET

Nemorandum

Ionestic Contact serrce

25I-157-50

DATE: 2÷ DESERCEE ISCE

FROM

SURJECT: Letters fro Clemard Charles, E21ti, to US Officials and businesssen

1.

Asteched for your intomation are letters from Clerard Jesega Charles

addresses 1o Vice President Eubert E. Fumicrey and President-elest Richara

11x09.

Tese letters were reseived in person Iron Charles, in Baits, by

Dorali 3. joie, source oi referauce, and brougat to the liS by ice laster.

The letters cave not been delivereá as oi this date. Bore giars to esk.

the Lew Jersey Thira Ilstrict Kazcer O2 tee IS House of Represesta-ives

to deliver ties.

2.

In aédition to the corresiondence refemed to ebove, fore also se

ceived letters of Inuroductios Iro= Cherles to:

Horard 1. Burris (celieved to te a Lavyer)

Suite 101, RCA 31172173

1725 K. Street, I.i.

Wasbington, DiC.

20006

Mr. A. E. Incledos, Vice President

3. Go anite Engineering Corp.

80 Broad Street

Tev York, I. Y. 10004

Konsieur Albert J. Krieger (believed to be en

accountant and business acquaintance of Charles)

401 3roadway

New Yor's, N. Y. 10013

Mr. Eerren Albert Miller (an accountant)

230 Wa

4lst Street

New Yoris, l. Y. 10036

Mr. Il. V. Rosello (an old triesd and very

reliable acquaintance of Cherles)

Export Credit western Femispiere Corp.

4T7 Madison Aveaue

New York, I. Y. 10022

The addressees are Individuals Iron shon Charles is seeking financial

assistasce•

•17000

Attaccents

Buy US. Savings Bonds Regularly on tbe Payroll Savings Plar

04357020

---

## Page 110

14-00000

1194-19.2

2.0b.d: 30-124858

Ii Bresident

• PostiMaca, lo 8 icvcabIa 15Ee

SolIerca,

qual j'al SuÊvi lES Ética 23 la CisJaEro 610=50

rajo jui dorsit toour= au Fuicngic la votro cam

Fotitour Tirastician aux Sicoticot micidentiol

Ic ac,

Jo la cruzis Imnicis+1520.

TOUI LYCS fri! dO TORIC FICUI, LALE

tant su'1l y 1 curigia cosa qu'os ro pout ócre

Das dos Iota dù das sasos - una calaturo qui custa

10 l0 20rd0.

• Bai co qui. a 815 décidó sarivoza.

Ts.T0IEIn, 106-13 0: 5136-1042 i0

Corteag Ter- =icoirdso 1'00j0% do 70s ag

credies, Vous icta atos crize-i do l'esgoir de

courculor 103 {211a 01 205 ti=g5o

Anzis cainas escóciocos Yous correres

guo doguis lo dingos la victoiro constituit zosti

quecentine Lacura, co qu'il fallala cueree, 3na

côta cost dira que io =ondo cot suct Iar dos 1013-

Taladoran: yão lo Ideau ost tiró, sa

elerno intoco lo corregi Lamifi.uo dort lous etas

20.

¿a sado, ion súpidos lo ¿tisident atascE,

me "icas contarosos i servis l'icórdiuo aunal fari

Bongo ito l'ous varras"®

000/02

---

## Page 111

Le Fiésides t

373620 1.

Jo lous ¿rão, ¿scollenco, de socorola

L'osprescios do ras terr-jas serbecsieur, e: e=

Scetiblos d'atsachescas c: claá-l=ation.

CJC/pa1

SCE 3I6:3C3

I'SXU0010K:2 1 10723

einselei

---

## Page 112

14-00000

epouser des au c a?

Lo Frésilent

Po=t-cuisinca, le 8 Lovesaro 1563

Consieur lo Zúsicunt su,

J'as cabri, coccio toug

les initicas d'allers, l03 élertica ¡résider-

tOlles iGNicuircs qui conitituent toujcurt si

in ofico, la iordo via

tier a caracatré 10s alfférentes Ilicos 2o lu

carpagne ciceto=-lo qui dirais abostir à vosro li

mincurt à 12 Présidcaco des Za*-üris d'irásiquo.

Un vena do recouvecu

couffle et 1'15=1 le conscierio do sa fcrso ot

do Son rayonzanont jaro 10 jorão.

vote touf-coz, Lonsieu

lo Irúsident Mu, d'un prostiza Incontecté.

Jo cuis dure contin

que, sous Fairo darinictrassen, 103 atat-iris

d'inórique, rec la prussiga qua lui Conres: Een

fanzó jacoparculo ds los iranics reasourccs tuat

Mon do ic-dorsiún du coria lisza et la placo co

preLúuI Jian Josd los autres l'acions du ilose jui

Casa l0 soucale que jo

forio : l'occasior. da Vo1=a Eai0ep-0 est électiore

ão fols mic do Iccevair,

Tensio:= 10 ¡súcident Ji, 038 TuCEI Slaciaco I0U=

Votro bonhors pusconnel et le presgárita du soupio

Ans deris.

CJC/pal ..

Histrionis Dolo

sortent istati-leschni

---

