# 104-10110-10037

## Page 1

104-10110-10037

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BIGMALCRNTIRYIROMY

OMF D

HABE

SEACATIC

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

LA6

BATH-TIMS SNOUT

1215597

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

DDo, TeNoP, DISEWR

0

0

620706

DISSEM BY:

PER LA

130(<0.)

16 - 28

EYES ONLY Dem

TO: PRIORITY

RYBAT PLYWBLANKET. Y-

56840

1. ACCORDING TO OUR INFO, CHARLOTTE BUSTOS! NAME WILL APPEAR IN

TEXT OF AGEE BOOK, ALTHOUGH WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT OPERATIONAL CONTEXT

WILL BE OR WHAT DETAILS AGEE WILL DISCUSS. WE EXPECT ADVANCE. COPIES

OF HIS BOOK TO BE IN HANDS OF BOOK CRITICS, ETC. BY 15 NOV•

OBVIOUSLY, PRESS COMMENTARY OR OTHER FORMS OF PUBLICITY POSSIBLE ANY.

TIME THEREAFTER • Y :

Z• FOREGOING IS MERELY IN NATURE OF ALERT SINCE WE DO NOT

FORESEE AT THIS POINT PROBLEM OF SUFFICIENT PROPORTION TO MERIT

SERIOUS CONSIDERATIONS OF EARLY REASSIGNMENT OR OTHER SUCH ACTION.

HOWEVER SHOULD YOUR JUDGMENT BE, NOW OR AT ANY POINT IN FUTURE AS

REVERBERATIONS FROM AGEE BOGK OCCUR: THAT DANGER OF PHYSICAL OR:

• TERRORIST ATTACK, EXTREME POLITICAL SENSITIVITIES. OF HOST COUNTRY, OR.

OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS DICTATE ANOTHER LOOK AT THIS JUDGMENT, YOU

SHOULD ADVISE US AT ONCE:: PLEASE DO NOT DISCUSS PEARA I INFO WITH

ANYONE OUTSIDE STATION. Y .

23

3. FILE:

L7376-46/3- E-2 IMPDET-ri

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

• 12 NOVEMBER 1974

JAMES E. FLANNERY

LA/SAF

9011

MILHABIND OFICER

CLASBIFICATION

RETURN TO CIA

11201

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

COOPOMATINO OFFICENE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Spera

C/LA/CAR

EATICATINO CETIE

E 2: IMPDET

---

