# 104-10102-10197

## Page 1

104-10102-10197

DISPATCH

Chief, European Division

R FASSEICATIONT

SECRE

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station,

SUBJECT

RIBAT SIMPATHIZER/ MHCOLOR

Transmittal of Press

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Clippings

Willem OLTMANS

references: i

DIRECIOR 224537

720798

720797.

1.

Attached for European Division are English language

translations

of the press clippings concerning Willem

O LTM

mentioned in the references together with

copies of the orginal

Dutch language press articles.

attached is compilation of OLTMANS'

with the Soviets

which was prepared by SYMPATHIZER.

The latter

almost exclusively uponl

naterial be treated as very sensitive as it is

Kenneth D. PIKELNY

Attachments

As

stated

above herewith

Distribution:

Orig.

2 - Chief, EUR

w/atts

h/w

Backgroued tis Only

Dc Not Fiepicorca

Excluded from

LATT

CROSS REFERENCE TO

automatic downgrading and declassification.

C3 3321

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

20274738577

DATE

SECRET

1 February 1972

HOS FILE NUMBER

1201-155221

15305

---

## Page 2

APPROVEs

142 1905

Subject:

T.L. OLIANOIS (10 June 1925)

On 29 December 1971 OLTIANS invited the Cultural Attache of the

Russian Embassy KUZNETSOV for an

evening in his

house. The invit

ation was also for some other members of

the Russian Representatio

At the

same time OLTMANS was to invite some six inportant journali

KUZNETSOV should ask OPALEV and IZWIKOV to come along with him.

The date agreed on originally was 11 January 1972. It then was

changed trice. When

14 January also wasn't suitable, it was agreed

to make the date for 18 January 1972 at 20.00 hrs.

the invitation

it could only be infered that OLMANS wanted

to offer his guests an opportunity for an informal discussion.

About the background of the present good relations of OLINs with

Soviet Representation in The Netherlands, section I is able to

report the following:

(This information comes from vulnerable source - OPPERBAlS

1. In September 1970 OLININS says with some surprise that he sudde:

ly received

an invitation to a party at the Russian Embassy.

Ile thinks it crazy; he doesn't belong to that club at all.

his thinking is along the lines of those people.

2. In October 1970 OLTMANS appears to be interested in an intervie!

with KOSYGIN's son-in-law GVISIANI who allegedly was connected

with American-Russian discussions about forming a mutual "think.

ing factory".

Presumably this had some connection with the so called Club of

Rome in which GVISHIANI plays a role.

Remark: GVISHIINI is chairman of the

state committee for scienci

and technology and is

suspected to be a highly placed

Intelligence Officer.

3. Begining March 1370 OLTMANS contacted the Press Attache OPALIV

from the Russian Embassy; OLTMANS would still like to have an

interview with GISHIANI.

It would be a filmed interview in which OLTMANS would cooperate

with the NOS. (IV).

In this period OPALEV's cooperation does not yet seem very

4. Thanks to the cooperation of Aurelio PECCEI,

chairman of the

Club of Rome, OLIMANS at the end of April 1971 succeeded in get-

ting in contact with GVISHIANI in Paris.

Also present at this discussion vas the fommer nenior of the Rus

Embassy FEDDROVSKY, now chief of protocol of the state committee

for science and technology.

---

## Page 3

ape constante

2.

it this opportunity GVISIIAVI immediately

invited OLTMINS for

visit to Moscow.

FEDEROVSKY was instructed

to inform the Russian

Embassy in The

Tague about it.

GISHIANI who at the same time is

chairman of the commission for

environment administration in the Soviet Union, asked OLTINS

make a film at the same time about the

to

environment administration

in the Soviet Union to support the international environment

conference to be held this year.

5. Begining May it becomes clear that since OLTMANS' discussion with

GVISHIANI, OPALEV'S

attitude towards OLTMANS

changed.

now all willingness.

OLTMINS makes his film

with GVISHIANI and receives an inv-

itation' to come to the Soviet Union for the second half of dugust

and the whole of September, where he could filn ten scientific

institutes.

GISIIIINI told OLTMINS that he had complete trust in hin.

6. In June 1971 OLTMANS again contacted GVISHINI, this time in

Vienna, where there was a meeting of the Club of Rome.

7. Begining October 1971 OLIMANS again saw GVISHIANI in Paris,

other things he spoke

to him about his visit to The Nether!

week of October.

OLMNs did his best to oblige GVISHIINI while visiting The Neth-

erlands by trying to establish business relations

for him (for

instance with Philips).

receruee

8. In November 1971 OLINANS,

the Russian state television an

offer for a five year contract to make exclusive films in the

Soviet Union.

offer was made to OLTMINS during his visit to the Soviet

Union. It is concretization of the earlier offer by GISHIANI tO

a number of scientific institutes in the Soviet Union.

17 November OLTMANS allegedly discussed this business further

with GVISHIINI in Geneva.

9. On 23 January 1972 OLIMINS will nake another visit to Moscow to

discuss making the above mentioned films without the participatic

of the NoS.

it this opportunity OLTMINS will leave behind a memo

about LUNS in connection with OLTMLYS' present agitation against

the Secretary-General of NATO.

OLTINS wants to prevent LUNS getting any future opportunity to

visit Moscow.

10. Referring to the meeting in OLTIINS' house on 18 January 1972 it

can be reported that on 17 January 1972 OLIMANS stated that he

is again seeking reaction from the Russians who will visit hin or

18 January; their reaction in connection with OLTMANS' request

to the general prosecutor of the High Council to bring action

---

## Page 4

4=00001)

3.

In the morning on 18 January OLPLiS also statod that suzmerso

said that OLTIANS' action against Lu's will not succeed bocaus

the "bosses"

stand behind LUNS.

It is not clear when KUZNOTSOV

said this to OLPiNS,

known that OLTMINS recently attended a mecting where

of Russians were present.

(Possibly

the meeting

the Association

"Nederland-USSR" with

the delegation from "USSR-Nederland"

on

14 January 1072.)

11.

On 19 January 1972 it was reported that HOFLIND (one of the

invited to the evening in OLIMINS' house) called before his

arrival and asked

whether he could bring a friend.

Ifterwards this friend appeared to be Peter ZONNIVELD from De

Telegraaf.

OLTMINS said that at the press conference which he (OLTMINS)

will give on 20

KOPUIT

January 1972 several guests, Nilo INSTADT, Rob

and Jaap JANSEN will defend OLT'LINS against the attack c

him in

'De Telegraaf" of this morning.

19 January 1972.

---

