# 104-10119-10232

## Page 1

104-10119-10232

SECRET

Chiles, cI/01

10 SEP 1959

Acting Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

C 77229

1/203377

24

Reference is nade to your menorandun dated 16. April 1959

requesting as appropriate Investigation of. Subjoct

SCLACTEALT

FaT

N

iad

neff

Br:)

• 3

During recent investigation of Subjoot, cortain infortion

uns developed which appears to reflect adversely upon his character,

proiossional activities and associates.

This infomation, In addition

to checks of the Office of Socurity Indices, is sumarized as followst

three developed informants commented favorably regarding

Subjoot's character, reputation and loyalty but o

e Informant

ended in divorce recently.

Subject was fined 445 for a 1954 traffic violation and

his subsequent follure to appoar at the hearing.

One informant advised

Subject, had rocently been the object of inquiries by local police officers.

The Inforiant bolleved this action rosulted fron unpald parling tickets.

c. Subject's name appears nunerous tines in subversivo riles

on the West Coast. These Items contain Information about Subject! s

activities in the Denocratio Ilinority Conference and liste his pres

fessional associates.

In 1949 he was listed as a menber of the Bar

conrittee against loyalty oaths for lawyers. He was shown as a close

associate Of VONSO SPENCER, deseribed by the files as a leftist, and

his activities vere primarily concerned with local ninor. ty groups."

Thosa activities vere extensively reported in the Communist Daily Poontal

Hoxla.

Vanio SPENCER represented Tassia FREED, a non-cooperative

witnoss before the ACUA.

Tassia FREED is the wife of E:11 FREED, an

adnitted Cornist nember.

Security Office Indicos also reflect that

this doc in do pray ad i day deed see he durned wher it

has served do paris le can do ari do wug dee ls die dosed except

SEDREN

---

## Page 2

•En1l FEED 10 on adnitted Connist farty Damber and took part in various

front activlties In California over the yearo.

•.Tra subject roportadly asaistad Ralph fi, NUTTER during the

trizl of Anthory P. NIUS and Alfred VIIOn, nanbora of the Coammity Sar-

vico Organisatione

MUTTER, according to Security Office Indices, Las a

close personal friond of larrison Scott BROwd, asourity disapproved in 1955,

and favorably reco monded him. NUTTER 13 also shown as a. momber of thei

I02 Angelos County Conferonce on Cormittee Relations (LICCR) as of October

20: on to the car, at not respio at do angales

Police Dipartant brutality, teacher firing, loyalty oaths, book-burning

by tho farty, atithe present time.

In January 1959, the Subjoct was Intervieved by, a representa-

tive ofsthe OSteconcerain his nanociation with Reinhold Josuha wur, con-

24

In vlow of tho cartification set forth in your request, no CIA

Piles othor than those of the lifico of Security have been searchod 1n

onaraction with this case. It is assuned that all pertinont Infotuation

concerning Subject has bean furnishid pursuant to the provisions of Clandos-

tIna Sorviced Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction ÷

Flold 10, 10500124

24

6.1

The enclosed atorinl should be roturned in a soaled envelope narked for

the attention of the undersigned when it has served its purpose.

FOR THE DIRECTOR CE SECURITY:

fipto.ie.i

2/DU

---

