# 104-10179-10043a

## Page 1

104-10179-10043

^ 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53295 6/15/17

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oniy

• Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Calaf, NE D1v181on

PROCE JUNG

n:to

-TES REI

CoSe Sis Reners

For Intonation end F1l988

lo AVET a reported tle rodlerine liferrarton conceralre Sailoct

12 Jenuary 19618

On 5 Manuary 1961 e =90t1ri Mey told Larween MORGal PAl and

7.1110

ex-freelerit of the rolan Siprono

court,

Ce SaN. 27eh Aranus, Afte

5, Min=to Pla. Trio dotalio oi 11.18

mootina wara not known

te Source.

dieruansor with d1:X1122,

PAY met with Coptain

Forgo soris end a bergmant

The Sar; ount

vas one of the corple sio

RADIaTOÚ SOT " esCApe STOn the lilo of'

Pires primono Durine Arles conternalion, PAY atterried to convinca

SOTis that he ahould not Join the

ITCap and Bald Curlier tre

ho had Juat told NEVENTEZ that ATROl shouli.

be abolished.

Ray then toid Bies that Coitain RaToR TAPILiA Poresuno.

collabcratine with hir 1n Farans

and that Fan:LiA hrd

went orin of

Ra! eterad tiat he hadlass:stod 21.10

sergoant to endapo fron cuba.

Pa Accordine to AMIT 2, SOris told his that the carcaant

• RAY vas rofariing to was tha one

who tai nicompaniod hia to 8o0 pily.

SATIS 81d not toll paY thia.

'oraorer, PArILLAJeont a mossago to

ari's and not to Ray eo the lettor Iatimeted@uãotus almo contentee

to A'T 2 that ho una amaras

9e cho numbor of 1108 RAl told his in

ardar to away hin (SOT:'S) to PAl'a Mes of thinkin

Another AMDT dource has roportad that KAl bea olalmas that 18 coot

hla €15,000 to gor SeTiS our of Cure.

SAY l0 dino alicaded to havo

aald that t'ore aro

coine to to many surprisen (chezzea?) in the

Entado YayO of the d'IRON ErOUD.

Infomation of Hondlerarters,

the AFAil: Ah1p 12000r

cho sarcoant and RAYo

END OF DISPATCE

DATI TIPED

17 Jan 51.

DATE DEFATCHED

Matributlone

3 WD

- -

UPGA- 662

• ASIATIN

202 .

Здро

---

