# 104-10247-10006

## Page 1

104-10247-10006

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DO NOt Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

27

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIEO

TOTAL COOLES

RIPROCUCTIDR REIMIBITEO

ACTION

C/WE3

INFO

VR. FILE DUP, ALiP, DC/WN 5, e/SES, C/CAR, C/CI, S/F12

TIME

S

ECRET

0818847

DIR CITE 0355

LESENSIRET PARUMEN AMHIP

& APR 65 IN 4 1 1 1

REF DIR 99337

ADDITLONAL DEBRIEF AMHIP ONE APR & PRODUCED NOTHING BASIC TO

TO|

0254. HOWEVER

SEQUENCE EVENTS AS FOLL. 31 MAR PRIOR TO

DINNER WHICH HAD AS GUEST OF HONOR MEXICAN PAINTER SIQUEIROS AND

WIFE WITH CULTURAL ATTAGHE DAVID AND WIFE ALSO PRESENI, AMWHIP

HAD BEGUN CONVERSATION WITHCURSHAFU 19 AT LATTER HOME BY SAYING

SOMETHING PRIVATE WHICH WISHED MENTION TO CUNSNAFU 19 BECAUSE OF : SIR

PREMO SKIP ARO ANUIP SELLES LATER SHOULD HOVE INPOSE ARMIE

DESCRIBED SOURCE SAYING HE WALTHY OFFICER OF

CERNED WITH GOVERNMENT RELATIONS. AMWHIP MAD SOLD HIM PRECIOUS JEWEL

FOR 27, 000 DOLLARS AND LEARNING MAN WAS OF CUBAN DESCENT ASKED HIP. WHAT

SECRET.

---

## Page 2

ME THOUGHT UF CURRENI CUBAN SITUNTIUN. MAN SHEN REMARKES I HAT

HE KNEW AN INDIVIDUAL HIGH IN GOVERNMENT CIRCLES WHO CONFIDENT SITUATION

GOING TO BE RESOLVED. THAT PERSON SAID BLOEXADE WOULD CONTINUE

AS WOULD ALL POSSIBLE OBSTACLES CUBAN ECONOMY. SAME MAN CONFIDENT

SECRET

SECRET

OVIETS NOT GOING CONTINUE AID WHICH NOW ABOUT MILLION DOLLARS DAY

(WHICHLUSTS DISMISSED AS RUMOR SAYING AMOUNT NOT THAI HIGH). AT

ABOUT THIS POINT TALK INTERRUPTED BY ARRIVAL GUESTS. RESUMED 1

APR AICUDIO INITIATIVE AT LOCAL GASLIGHT CLUB WITH AMUHIP SAYING

ODYOKE PREPARED TALK WITH RESPONSIBLE ELEMENTS IN GOVERNMENT TO

RESOLVE PROBLEMS BUT NEVER WOULD TALK AS LONG AS SOVIETS IN CUBA

NORZUOULD DISCUSS WITH COMMIES OR CUBAN LEADERS SPOTTED WITH BLOO

(U) IS REACTION AS REPORTED E25A WITH ADDITIONAL ELEMEN: THAT

HE SAID THAT ROCA AND RODRIQUEZ LIKE ALL BATISTA SUPPORTERS CAN BE

BOUGHT WHICH IS WHY ODYOKE WILLING TALK WITH THEM.)

SECRET

SECRET

---

