# 104-10192-10182

## Page 1

104-10192-10182

5 Açrll 1960

SUP'ET: Keeting of 2e derch with Kenbere of AMI: IN Group

lo Thie monorandus enbodlos a few of «iscellaneous pointa that vera covered

durine our steting of 29 Kirch with three re; resentatives of the ANILM roup.

2 One essenti:lly for our propagando poorle, le lila, the Frensa Latim

has establlahed on extensive netiort now only in the honionhero tut outalde of le

In other cruntrire.

The A: ill'a asked the s' irie ruestion, tore la the money.

coming from.

since : ronsa Latina 1s apparontaly a non-profit orpniaition wiloh

unlike our 1ssoel ted Presa and U!1 doll lla producta to newsia ers: mund the

world, just uho lo footine the dill 46 chia Elno for this ertensive operation.

Ja Too, concerna tre present Cuson dielon tio corps.

The AVALAS" comment'

that s key nan in the

diplomtle.corpg is recla001, na: resull of defection or any

other onuso the replucement is invarially e. Coraunist. Thie could protauly e

moll checkod out.

i nother roine they make concorne the er-ining of cortain Communista.

The present inhaasador to Carons 1a Lula Orlando MUDiUGU:2.

Accoming to tha

FIALES,

the mn RulMIcUi", ms lolned orar a jorlod of mny yerra by a son narer! Loon 1:3,

he's Ukraining

spanks fluo or six linguopes, lo in econorilet, deserlled by then au

extremoly Intellipent.

He llves in a private lome which hos doors on de 11ke a

bank woult and since wil ascetles, he's lived In Cuba.

Hele a finure shrouded in

secrecy but one to hag trained not only CHIOUs, but. Morea fRATs. ind othere.

l'olnt number thres contarred irpontine complielty in the neent plot

against iresident Frondial of irportira.

Tining was lage fall ind according to

the AM ALMs the Cubin •b'asy in Argentina was the centor of the enarioy.

ken we sond Ambasascor Fongil tick own to havana this mis a triglo

It took nuch of tho he rt out o

ba reo-le

Who tore sepnal

of oned to liitir, ral vero lookine to tie l'nited il:leg for

morale sur ort.

In an amiyals of Crstro's propresa to d te ind his santritions for the

future cher mine tria pieture.

They ay. Ual the assult on tho kinend Birmcke

of 1951. "9 Castro'9 a:rineboard or er nonline to the florris inostro.

Prostra ma hia errasolina to Cube and Cuba 1a hia Er - roline to LEIn imories.

There may to sone explaitable inples to this analyalo.

2122

concerning a raster rin for action, trese pontlemen en tanised thu nued

: cor initially s atrone lustifle. ion in the aínde of tha curen :eoilo for everturily

crossing tre bridre.

They so e this crossing of te bridge no a very aristic retion.

To ruote e gorine, bey put 1l this ly, "istrin bon't cure ariendicille?. This mana

thist an or supery

1s re uired and the pilione must therefore first to trepired for

the : racendoua op melon thes his to follus.

"RET

9-6-1:13

---

