# 104-10213-10352

## Page 1

104-10213-10352

UNCLASSIFIED

I POERNA

SE ONL

COMEDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SURJECT: 1Ophon' louse Select Committee on

Assassinations Request for

FROM:

Ii fornation on 201 Criteria SF48.29 4-56 PH'78

C/ISS

1D4124

• SECRET

DATE

Dois ates derigation, roas nurber, and

DATE

ACENTO LOEWARDID

OPRICER'S

INITRAIS

1.

0/SA/DO/0

2.

28 February 1978

1o whom

COMMENTS (Mumbos doct commens la show frem ohan

Drem a line acroas caduma efter eoch coemont.)

Ito 3:

atlached is the

3. OLC

Atar: Fet. Campenter

18 - 0010110

737e61978

The atladad

reque atitos anders

Prete gentin

nite the classifet.

SECRET.

te amacond

10.

12.

13.

110 "SERENOUS • SECRET O CONFIDENTIAL

1 INTERNA

SE ON

O UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

570 + 70-5-4581

+. + 0. 4000810091

€ 62=9

SECRET

rein bonte

DO/ISS 18:028

28 February 1978

MENORANDUM FOR: 0/SA/DO/0

Attention: Mr. Shepanek

FROM:

William F. Donnelly

Chief, Information Services Staff

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on Assassinations

Request for Information on 201 Criteria (S)

REFERENCE:

OLC 78-0070/19, 23 February 1978

1.

(S)

With reference to the conversation of

27 February between Mr.

Shepanck and Mr. Cleffi of ISS,

a che rude on the is be quate de son 21 2060.

15 November 1974,

HSCA Staff has led us to conclude that the most complete

and effective way to respond would be by inviting the

Staff to review our regulation governing the criteria for

opening, maintaining, controlling and closing 201 files

by the Operations Directorate.

regulation provides an answer to every question posed by

the Staff.

(S) The earlier version of the regulation is

included to reflect the situation as it existed in the

period of their primary concern (1958-1964).

The later

version provides an expansion, clarification and refinement

of the earlier versions.

Willain 7. Domulle

Killiam F. Donnelly

SECRET

222 PET CLINe15866

005793 19

---

## Page 3

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III

15 November 1974

ANNEX B

THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSHIB 70-1-1; 27 October 1968

1. ETRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific in-

terest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent

information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying

subjects uf 201 files from various categories of information about them and for

producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a rela-

tively small number of personalities indered are of sutficient interest to justify

opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and

Cl investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organi-

rations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of corre-

spondence has accumulated.

% THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a The 201 Number: a unique number, i.e., 201-1231567, assigned to each

individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that

individual

b. The 201 Dossier: the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form

$31) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., per-

sonal history, current status, and prospects.

c. The Master 201 Record: a machine record generated by the opening of

a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Inder and

stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved' for special listings.

d. Main Index Master 201 Reference: this reference, printed in reply to an

Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent

within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be mored up and the ref.

erence consolidated.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

201-00326210-4

TYPE NAYE I

OI CODES AA

BCD JATE 5J

AND PRARLACISTS NIND SN MUNICH, GEPHANT FRON 22 THACUSA

29 остовеа.

O" now 20

Information About Subject

1. Sequeuce l'amber and Name

%. Sex and Date of Birth

2. Citirenship

14. Place of Birth

5. Occupation

B. Occupation Code

%. Test

Document Reference Date Group

8. 201 Number

8. Name Type Indicator

10. 01 Codes

11. Renord Date (year only)

12. Reference

ISC Coninal Information

13. Date of latest update of the moand

14. STAR Index Record Number

24

SECRET

boa

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAFTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

e. Ol Code: a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per-

sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual

with organizations or activities of operational interest. Di coules cover intelli-

gence and security service affiliation, whether stalf or agent, e: known or

suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of OI

codes for use by components:

(1) general Ol codes (Attachment 4)

(2) 01 codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services

or other specific organizations.

A component may request an Ol code be established by submitting a mem-

orandum to the DDO/R.MO through the component Records Management

Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two Ol codes. An Ol code may be assigned

shen the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form S31) is initiated (see

paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added

at a later date by a Form 831 amendment

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201

personalities by Ol codes. For example, if an Ol code has been opened for the

security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members

of that service.

f. 201 Machine Lists: produced from the mechanized 201 Inder, based on

names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers

exist

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

•. Ceneral

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com.

ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates

& master 201 record. Changes to the master record and the occasional closing

of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by the desks and ISG. 201 dossiers may be

persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals

are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff.

1

emplojees, stalf agents and most categories of coniract employees. Files on

25

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER Ill, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk !

and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DO I

records systém and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require

nents on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain calegories of persons whose

names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listes! in Artachment z 201

dossiers should be opened in the foilowing categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational ap-

proval requests. However, a file need not he opened when a POA is requested

for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera-

tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other tha

enied area countries, in close association with staff personne

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Jain Inder search reveals information in five

or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/

ISR (opened only by IP/RVS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headgirters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting

a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main-

tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to crete or amend the

master 201 record and 201 machine listings and to

register the assign-

ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample

201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field

station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201- in the Head-

quarters file or cross-reference bos on the dispalch form and/or after the

subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening

is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by

placing 201- alter the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN

will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi-

bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of

28

SECRET

12109.8

---

## Page 7

14-00000

l.aanyt. e

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNES B

15 November 1974

# CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

nformation about a 201 personality should he filed or cross-referenced inf

is dossier. Ihen additional information is discovered on a 2ul subject throus

a nime trace or other process, i.e., revies of predecessos documents, it must

be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation

procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited.to:

a 201 Personality File Action Reques: (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints,

and

handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

I Secrecy agreement.

J. Agent Duty Status Report.

I Training and evaluation.

?: 1. SCSIVIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which helps provide a better understanding of the

subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.

I MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document dale order, papers which

hare been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which

have not. Record documents may range frum newspaper or magazine articles

on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

281

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB T0-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANYEX B

15 November 1974

a Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires

periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention shoul

be puiged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following

(1) Duplicate material, i.e, exact copy (3) of a document.

(2) Name trace form (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for

the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information it

a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the cissemination number

then must be transferred to the first page of the ras report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheels (Form 610) and dispatch

cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information

contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is

by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier

forarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention

in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized

officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction

over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification

authority. If the document cannot be doungraded the file should be retained

at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained

in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a

cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location

of the TS document

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

B. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order

in the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

28.2

SECRET

.. a cas

925 sea dessed.

+* .

---

## Page 9

14-00000

7

Br6,79

SECRET

DOIllS 70-1.1

CHAPTER III, ASSES B

15 Josember 1974

auster, the attacted nt with be tie doey hed by the ati aire of ales!

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they ar

o be retained in the dossier they should be sent to IP/R.NIS for classification

into that 201.

(3) Field index cards (held by some desks) and area desk cards may

be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards

should be mounted on a full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201.

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff

employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to

the ISC/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be

closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true

name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest

should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material

has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified

to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an

OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and

Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing

(8) Desk memoranda (with or without a document source number)

containing substantive or derogatory information on the subject of the 201

should be sent to IP/AN to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document

for inclusion in a 201 personality dossier will be funarded with the basic

document to IP/A. for processing into the 201.

от KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-tuped envelope will

automatically be handled as desensitized A black-taped envelope may con-

tain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the

file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black-

tape the entire dossier rather than individual docunents (see DOI T0-10).

28.3

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be

handled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 20

ossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under

Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below.

DO UNCLASSInER

I SPEND NO ACORD LET

TED SECRET

L8/Fsleg

0c-98

Chapter 112, A-ses 8.)

et 2010

498F16Red DOBate!

(ABrac» fore 2021 2a

12.

Por Split Oberge Dosslara:

forsanted to I/P1laa, All

retataed as .

oдн BIOE

CEO SECRET D CONTIDEITIAL

28.4

SECRET

et to depen

OO UACLASSIFIES

*:.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANYEX B

15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge it the desk during any

period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk

officer sho is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer.

Central Files will then send the Notice uf Transfer of Document or File Account-

ability (Form 29r7) to the new action desk officer.

CONFIDENTIAL

10:

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY

260T

10т.

This La to 80:155 you sbat socountability for use docusent(s) and/or file(s) cicad

belou bas bers isusierred to you by:

aot.

lecordlagly,

At 362, 1 70s recorder desertet see a e coat.

PLeASe COLEACE 5P/81240,

DON 21ET DO BALAT

BotH so.

90101881

Des. 0s.

1-79 2978 000.

CONFIDENTIAL

(EL. 8V: 987657

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action

Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the

201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings

for his compoent.

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

lesk or placet to it sensitive 0 in Cer may be restricted by holdi

ne the file at th

Perli ate may be remedy chain to or do 20i l

28.5

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

DOHIB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 Nosember 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge

irom Central Files. (.Jote: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being

2071) m so Company the scentiva, a File Restriction Notice (Form

(3) The dossier may be restricted änd held in Central Files by sub

sitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021)

CONFIDEWTIAL

(Phas did lod 80)

PiTI

06-92 1236 03-6

T2? FYA

ACTICH BEST: 1.

₴.

FILE RESTRICTICN NOTICE

a restriction, complara Section B (9.0. alganture

THE FORBID

SENSILA

IS5.3T0T TD: (Ute COUnT58 es BOO-tOuriTy cole fatbar. See (SI TJ-28)

919-220220 5Y:

CONGOSETTE:.

Date:

SZUCTS RESTRICTICN (AUTORIZED EY)

- R.O. Ho..

1-7: 2021 880:

CONFIDENTSAL

8+ 90

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the

personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request

for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricied dossier

held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-

outed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This dest may then forward the fil

o ibe requesier or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. Th

desk will notify the requester of a denial.

= Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricte

essier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to tha

desk by Central Files.

28.8

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, AVNEX B

15 November 1974

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION 0S•201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the

subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the

requester will be referred to the restricting desk

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201

file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should

supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fesser names or numbers may be made by

telephone by calling the IP/AIS sed line extension; 1P/AIS vill provide the .

information by retur call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge

Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must bu listed and sent

by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after

appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will

destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and

number from machine lists. Any Record Copy documen: contained in the folder

will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit

(IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names

and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of

interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its

alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonyra listings, this may be done shen opening

the 301 or later by a 201 amendment On the 201 Personality File Action Request

• (Form 831) lease the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16)

blank, use the non-country code 900 in the action bos (Box 14), and indicate

permanent charge to the responsible desk The only listing which will include the

301 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are

legorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or specia

& Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's

in'eres! as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

•Pie LiEs

---

## Page 14

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, AS'VEX B

15 November 1974

Desk" blocks or. the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The

standard listings available are:

•(1) Alphabetical by surname, leading to a 201 number,

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number,

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

.

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.

BRCRET/S86A912411O% INTERAL USE ObEI

B IT-9

673918

0I*T

BUSB

@BsCiaj*188

TAPAINS PAS

7 8 27

50656600658.

SPIRE BEC

88 MY

ISEA

BOBNGPUTE

5 gas 18 %

: "es fra

Enro

*50.

"1LA

CE DE

€12N41T

155:0821

BARNSTUG

Ete mont

FREE 109

100006 1e 10

01919>8

0199198

0108378

1291-T

00-9724

1+961484

€5.79

e9t8a8#

0166013

0146738

3650083000636006006s5

ties

PRiS

26.8

SECRET

i-ve

systemaid die, trite est

---

## Page 15

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard listings are cumulative; previous editions must be destroyed

upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely

sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.

b. Non-Standard Listings

Based on one or more of the foilowing selection criteria:

(1) Country of location

(2) O1 codes (organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years) .

(5) Occupation.

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,

a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the

Ol code of XX' or codes of XX, 15", or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be

produced of all persons sho sere born in Germany between the years 1915

and 1920, with the occupation computer specialist, who are now citizens of the

United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the Ol code AA.

Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities sith an

Ol code AA. Those personalities with an Ol rode other than AA and those

with no Ol code sould be excluded. The requester could however ask that

persons sho have not been assigned an Ol code also be included. Note also

that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific

as the occupation code (Attachment I). The occupation code for a courier

covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one

occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those sho practice

some trade or manual occupation, ie, campenters, bricklayers, painters, mechanics

ind clectricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category

will be included in the printout. These non-standard listings

may be sorted

(arranged) according to any, but not more than three, of the following keywords:

(a) Surname

(b) Given name

(c) Date of birth

(d) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship

(i) Ol code

(g) Location

....:

289

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

*Sorts can be made within sorts. For example, 201 personalities may be sorted

alphabetically by surname svithin O1 codes for given countries of loestion.

Because two O1 codes may be listed for each personalty, those names with tw

I codes would be listed twice

c. Scheduled Listings

Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.

d. Special Listings

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time basis

in response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings

All requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 20

listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and fo

information on the 201 machine list system should be made to the component

ic.a-

28.10

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

DOHIB 70-1-1

CILAPTER IN, AVNEX B

Altachment 2

15 November 1974

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINCS

Note: 201 files will be opened automatically by IP/AY on the following cate

gories of people.

& Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above.

b. Sfilitary attaches and assistant military altaches.

c. Intelligence officers of the

(Prior to opening of an

201 file, check with

of name and additional biographic data)

for correct spelling

2 All positively identified members of

Services.

b. All positively identified members of the

and

Intelligence

Intelligence Service

Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and

ofricials of the

Communist Party front organizations. Do not open

unless there is at least a date of birth given.

d. All members of the Security Service

3 Cula

Inciligence service employees (DSE, DGI).

should be indicated as the originating

office with CI/SP always indicated as the secondury office of interest

t. Military attaches.

c. Assistant military attaches.

d. Identified intelligence officers.

26,15

SECRET

: 1:::

"ad: 4976409X0029924

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB TO 1.1

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

Attachment 2

15 November 15.4

5. North Vielnain

A' liplomats and NFLSV (PRG) olficials stationed abroad.

6. USSR

a All Soviets assigned PCS to an rifficial representational installation, ie.

embassy, consulate, commercial representation, national airline (Aeroflot)

office, news media oftice.

b. All rices assigned POS to the Linited ations in Nier Jork, Paris, Geneva,

c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned.

d Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions

of higher learning

.. ...

"""

28.16

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 131-1

70-1-

CSHB 49-1-1

CHAPTER I

15 February 1960

.?.

:

..:i

ANNEX B

PERSONALITIES - 201 AND IDN NUMBERS

L

1. A relatively small proportion of the total number of personall

ties indexed by the CS are of active operational interest at any given

point in time. These are normally subjecte of extensive reporting and

i1 investigation, prospective agents and sources, and members o

roups and organizations of continuing target interest. Each of thes

personalitles is assigned either a 201 number pr an IDN number.

2. The 201 number serves a dual purpose. It brings the files on

these personalities into the Cs records system. A single number,

e.g•, 201-123456, is assigned to each person, and a dossier controlled

by this number is established which contains, or has cross reterenced

to it, all of the reporting on the inchvidual's personal history, current

status and prospects. Once the 201 number is assigned, it is used in

future reporting on the individkal both as a file number and in place of

other identifying data. Up-to-date machine listings are published

periodically to help field stations and headquarters desks keep book

on those 201 personalities ialling in their particular geographic or

•functional area of interest.

3. It has become apparent that the 201 machine listings should in-

clude the identities of persons of operational interest because of their

connection with a target group or organization even though there may

...a file. For grample: A considerable number of stations are concerned

• with the activities of Cuban exiles. Coverage of their moverents,

... factions and objectives can be assisted by furnishing all participating

stations up-to-date listings containing information under the control

43

Reas ky

SECRET

- 80113=...

TE

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET

70-1-8

CSH3421

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

. i .

15 February 1960

- matant a steers.

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 43-1-t

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per -

sonalities, such lists should contain the names and identifying data

of persons who should be kept track of, although they may only be of

tangential interest or on whom there may be little or no data other

than that given in the listing itself:

4. To accommodate this type of reguirement in the 201 system,

Identifiable personalities concerning whom enough information is not

yet available to require the opening of a file may be assigned numbers

of the following type but in the same series:

IDN-123457

These are relabeled "201" if a fife is opened. IDN numbers are car-

ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,

where they are identified by the leiter "I" in the "Type of Name" col-

umn. IN numbers are not CS file numbers.

5. All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headqua dies a,

elther upon receipt of Form 831, or of a field dispatch. If a dispatch

is written about a personality not yet in the system, a 201 number for

It may be requested simply by writing under headquarters file number

In the dispatch form as follows:

-

Dispatch Symbol and No.

XYZA-12345

Headquarters File No.

201 -

.....

6. IN numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the

request of stations or desks which are developing special identification

programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-

tion of new 201 openings and IN numbers through the Field Index Card

Service.

44

SECRET

---

## Page 21

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

HANDBOOK NO. 43-1-1

704-1

CSHB 43-1*

CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 February 1960

% Stations or branches often are concerned with personalities

not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired

order. Should such personalities become of general CS interest,

they must be brought into the 201 system.

45

SECRET

---

