# 104-10221-10190

## Page 1

104-10221-10190

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

UNITED STATES DEPAKTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Moose Refer lo

Filo No.

WABHINCTON 25, D. C

November 5, 1968

CONF

LA L

INTERMATIONAL ANTI-COMMUNIST

BRIGADE (IACB)

This document contolns neither

rocemmendelicrs.nor conclucions of

tha Fri. Hi the procery of

profited ilonen do your agency,

is and in: centents aru nol to bo

distribured oulsido your agency.

On Hovember 5, 1960, T-l, a coniidential source abroad;

advised that the Kerican Federal Attorney General'e Office has.

not prepared. lormal. charges against the 13 American citizens who

vere taken into cuetody

at Eultze, British Konduras on October 23,

1968, after lorcing.

Iron

Progreso, Yued a dexican sits captaln to ta:& then there

Neither did the Mexican Governnent

request their

extradition 25mm British Honduraz.

Tre Mexican

Government expects the 13 men to jo released to

the United States

Government and le still studying the matter of possible prosecution.

it is. doubtrul that any action will be talen against

Ar. EDUARDO LOCALIT, vio nocryed the group before they

Yucatan, as the nember of the groug who called himsel? "MAX

and wore a beret.

The Consul further advised that Mr. MAYNARD CLAYTON,

Direcior of the Zenjamin Pranlin Inatitute In kerida, reporied

on October 23"iCORWAT"

that a tour guide naned GARCIA had been

approached by

who requested him to lead a group to

the Guatemalan Irontier overland,

ostensibly to go hunting.

GARcts refused, pointing out that the hunting season was not

yet open and

the zuthorities would certainly detain anyone in

the area bearing arne.

CONFIDENTIAL

Group 1

Excluded iron automat

downgrading anc

declassification

BBC 34511

201-242356

CS COPY

35. 4-8

---

## Page 2

104-10221-10190

CONFI

INTERNATIONAL ANTI-COMMUNIST

BRIGADE (IACB)

The October 21, 1950, edition of the "Diario de

Yucatan"

dateline. a Merida, Yucatan daily newspaper,

carried a dispatch

on: October. 20; 1938,

to the disappearance

of the Americans aboard the ship

'El Amigo".

the article stated that one of the passengers, MAX GORMAN, Jr.,

had bought supplies for the trip in a grocery

"Villa del' Mar" for which he paid with a $50 travelers check

drawn on the American Express Company, S5 Broadway, New York,

New Yori..

The checks was reportedly Invalld and bore the number

N-A-63-070-069.

-2รท-

CONCIDENTIAL

DBC 34517

242256

201-

---

