# 104-10216-10398

## Page 1

104-10216-10398]

FET 15ET

and sel

15 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting w1th AULASH-l In Paris,

31 January to 3 February 1965

1. AHLASH-1 roturned from Rome to Parte on 31 Jan 198:

and was set for a very brief noeting the same night by ONTRICI

In order to arrange a meeting for the following day.

The

following subjects were discussed at the two meetings on 1 and

2 February 1965:

The primary roason for again meeting AVLASH]

before his planned return to Cuba was to brief his on the

security implications Involved in the infiltration and

possible capture of Modesto Orlando Orozco Basulto AKA

Bebo Orozco, who Infiltrated Into Cuba on 21 Dec 1964.

Oxozco, according to his sle, went to Cuba to rescue

and three others who vere hiding in the

none of a woman named r

who lived at

7 Havana.

roco's capture, 11 he has been captured, presents an

Indiroct threat to the security of AMLASH-1 and & more

direct threat to the security of ANTRUNK-10 since Orozco

In Jan 1964 exfiltrated through the rat line established

by AMICB-14 (Miguelito). Upon his return to Cuba,

AMZASH-1 "1l1 check the above with AWTRUNK-10; and, 1f

Orozco is under the control of the security service, will

decide and communicate with Miant whether AHLASH] and

ANTRUNK-10 believe it necessary to exfiltrate AMTRUNK-10.

AMLASI I was briefed to send a letter to UNSNAFUg to

Indicate whether Orozco has been arrested or whether he is

still in hiding.

If the letter to UNSNAFU9 mentions a

good and pleasant return trip, this will mean that Orozco

Is not under the control of the security service.

If the

letter talks abouth long, tiring trip..

this vill indiente

that Orozco has been arrested.

AMLASH-I was also requested

to mend a report on the above and any complications which

have developed or may develop fron Orozco's infiltration.

D. AMLASE-1 suggested that his nom do guerre "Charles,"

which we have been using for the past three years, be

changed to "Gerardo."

SECRET

09:2 =2331

---

## Page 2

c. AMLASH-1 was given a resupply of S/" developer

pilla and carbon. He planned to take the S/" material

back with him to Havana.

AMLASH-I again reviered with

UNSNAYU and reminded UNSNAFU9 to turn over to his Paria

case officer all lettors regardless of how received fron

AHLASHL to either UNSVATU-9 or lotters that aay be addressody

to his parenta-in-law.

AMLASH-1 also agreed to send s/w

out in letters addressed to

in Geneva or Rome.

ANWHIRl was briefed

to Inform Ventura that any letters he received from

AMLASI-1 should be immediately air mafled to AWHIP!

in New York.

Since AMLASH-1 will probably find 1t

necessary some time not to sign the letters to

1n his true name, AHWHIP) was also briefed to Inforn

to forward to New York any letter received from

Cuba addressed to him and signed by a person unknown to

him.

S/" letters to AlLASH-I should continue to be

addressed to l

In an energency a letter can also

Do sent to AHLASH-1'& mother.

d.

&VLASt I was again debriefed on the cache that had

been put down for him in Matanzas.

He repeated what be

had previously reportod and attempted to answer most of

the questions in the WAVE cable.

A cable on this subject

vas sent from

_to Headquarters, Info WAVB, on 2 Feb.

AMLAS-I was requested to send a message either through

his channel or through AHTRUNK-10°s S/W channel reporting

how much of the radio equipment and other material had

been recovered from the cache.

AMLASH 1 was asked if he knew of any individual in

Cuba whom he could recruit and who could be inserted into

the Cuban Intelligence Service with the idea

o1 attempting

to get the DGI to assign this man to Caracas, Venezuela.

AlLAsH-I could think of oply one possibility, an individual

known as

AMLASH-1 has full confidence

in |

and |

has previously been approached on

several occasions by Pinero to work for him.

Upon his

return to Cuba AMlASH-1 will check to find out 11 L

can still get himself recruited by Pinero and then be

sent on a mission abroad, hopefully to Caracas.

(ANHIP-),

who also knows

will provide the background infor

mation upon his return to New York.)

on 10 Tobruary 1968.

ANTASH-I reported on the upcoming FEU elections

AMLASH-1 stated that Crombet, the

president of the Connunist Youth, "ill become the new

SECRET

Aura

---

## Page 3

14-00000

= 3

prosident and that bis man, Layaro sora, would be one of

the vice-presidents.

to Headquarters fron I

(A cable on this subject was Bent

AMLASH-I was requested to check with Flazolo

regarding the precautions being taken to prevent sabotage

of the lochotives being shipped from France to Cuba;

specifically, how carefully do they check the placement

of the seals, are they spectal seals or regular lond

seals, are there going to be any additional checks once

che locomotives reach Cuba, will they drain the oil and

lubricants from the factory to the port, and do they run

the locomotives under their own power or are they towed.

AMLASHl agreed to attempt to develop answers to the above

requirements and pass the information to his contact in

AllLASH-1 also agreed to attempt to find

out and pass to the

through UNSNAFUg the

names of the Cuban techs training at La Rochelle.

h.

In a general discussion regarding the persons with

whom AMLASH] had been in contact either personally or

through letters, AMLASH-l mentioned Alfredo Portela.

ANLASH] stated he had received a letter from Portela and

had in turn witten to Portela.

He considers Portela a

Iriend which was the only reason for writing to bin.

1. AMLAST-I was debriefed on Cuban Intelligence

Bervice personnel.

A cable on this subject was sent from

to Headquarters.

1. A cable was sent from

to Readquartera

suggesting WAVE send a S/" letter to AMTRUNK-10 stating:

"Isto tranquilo. Carlos regresa pronto,"

ANLASH I was asked for infornation on the fol

lowing persons:

(1) Samuel Gonzales Rodriguez-Planes. ASASE 1

(2) Antonio Lusson y Batile, Chief of Operation

of the General Staff of the Oceidental Army.

AMLASE-1 has

heard nothing bad about Lusson.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

(3) Cadte. Raul Diaz Arguelles, Chlef of

Artillery of the Oceidental irmy.

(1) Elpidio Baes Bigo. According to AlASH-1,

Baer ds a trusted Fidelman.

(6) Enrique Oltuski Osacki. Oltuski le a close

friend of Faustino Perez and his stock with the regime

risos or falls as does that of Faustino..

(7) Sergio Tollon. Code clerk in the Embassy In

Paris.

Tolion 1a staying in Paris at the request of

Ambassador Carrillo.

Gastro entoritis, water pollution and unsanitary

conditions.

AMLASH I stated there are no real problems,

although the scarcity and lack of a balanced diet do

cause some problems.

The purification of water has been

• probler which probably has been the cause of sone of the

sickness in the country.

AMLASE-1 did not bellove that Aragones had Invited

him to fly back

to Havana with him in order to got him

back because of any serious security matter.

ANLASH-1

did state that Aragones vas concerned that AMLASHl may not

return to Cuba.

Since Aragones cleared AMLASH-1 for his

trip abroad, he 1a in a way responsible that AMLASH-I does

not defect

AMLASH-1 feels Aragones

does not want any problems with Fidel In case AHLASHI

decides to stay out.

AMLASE-1 was unable to provide any information on

December since he had been out of the country since early

November.

ANLASH I was asked to check on the probleme

between the opposing factions in the Cuban leadership and

explained the issues, the background and personalities

lavolved.

•. Soviet advila or influence in politienl and economie

matters creates reschtment among the middle and hicher level

Cuban officials. Basically, the Soviots are not respected.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

p.

Rank of Cuban officials under Fidel In terms of

thoir influence in making national polley.

Reul is still

the heir apparent to Ildel.

Next to Raul

1s Che Guevara.

After that, no other official, according to AHLASH-1, has

any great influence in the making of Cuban national policy.

President Dorticos'

relationchip with Fidel 18 good since

he is a hard and serious worker, has good administrative

mbility and la able to work within the general outline laid

down by Fidel.

Raul Castro has some political influence

and control in Oriente where he has placed his men in

positions of influence, but only Fidel personally bag aby

polltical influence in the rest of Cuba. Even within the

nilltary Fidel selects and appoints high army officer.

Che Guevara 1e still strong in the economic field and

has not sulfered a decline in his influence and authority

because of his ourlier policy of industrialization.

Guevara restricts binself to the econoute field and plays

a very saall role in the political field.

He 1s serious

and very hard worker, one of the few. according to AMLASH-l,

who has worked seven days a week without leave since the

revolution.

Emilio Aragones holds an important positlon

an the organizational secretary of the PURS.

He is the

official who was always at the office of the Natonal

Directorate of the Party and has contact with all the

offloials in the regime.

He plays an important coordinating

role.

Faure Chomon has been accused of organizing former

19th of March Rovolutionary Directorate people, but.

according to AMASHl, this probably based on the fact that

chomon always gives jobs in the ministry he beade to Da

people.

Because of this Chomon today controls to a larre

dogree the Ministry of Transportation. Of all the nintetries,

the DR's stronghold is in the Ministry of Transportatlor.

Other DR people who continue to hold important positlons

in the regine are Alberto Hora, Ambassador Carrillo aad

JoBe Naranjo.

-..!

AMASH] and ANWHIPI vere unable to develop any

specifies, but fron their conversationg with Ambassador

Carrillo got the impression that Carrillo would prefer and

volcome a transfer fron the Embassy in Parte to tbe

Embassy. In Hadrid.

According to Enilio Aragones, Anibal Escalante

is being considered for a Job outside Cuba.

The job will

probably be in the commerelal/econonie field, but a

decision had not been made as of November 1964 as to

location.

SECRE!

man trim- hit in

---

## Page 6

80.0000

8.

AMASH-1 again reported that he feels Orlando

Blanco, Consul of the Cuban Embassy in Bern, is

approachable since he is unhappy with the Cuban regime.

AMLASI I also feels that Enrique Rodriguez Loeches,

Cuben Ambassador In Pabat, is approachable if approached

and developed by the right person.

Marina Garcia Gonzalez

assigned to the connercial section of the Cuban Embassy

In Rabat, ALASH 1 foola 18 also approachable and feels

money can be uned as an inducement.

Ambassador Carrillo,

AHLASH-I feels, if the proper person developed him, could

probably be compromised with Fidel.

He is a character

and could easily be entangled according to AMLASH 1 1r

& compronising situation.

friend of Lucy Echevarria.

Ambassador Carrillo Is a close

Nestor D. Sanche:

VH/ SA/ AMWORLE

ee:

TH/EA/ KOE

DN/SAl mEs

7110:

AMLASH-1 201

Internal Op

SECRET

---

