# 104-10126-10044

## Page 1

104-10126-10044

0LG # 73-2538

03/37/03

ADV C/LA 214OZ

SECRET

PRECEDENCE

FRP: ,2...

STAFF

ACTIUN: C/LA-8 (R82) INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, IGA DDOEH, C/CCS, C/CI-4

C/CI/OCFLA C/EPS/COMP, C/EPS/EG=Z, C/EUR-O, C/OG/DMS, CAPOS, CAPOSAPGL.

CAPM, D/OLC, ICS,

(36/W)

78 1047459

PAGE 001

TOR: 272139Z JUL 78

IN 1047459

MEXI. 46000

SECRE T 2720357 JUL 78 STAFF

CITE MEXICU CITY 46000

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

KNINTEL RYBAT

,LC/

"3!":":

REFS:

A. DIRECTOP 261715

B. DIRECTOR

261709

C. MEXICO CITY 45940 1022224

D. DIPECTOR 263821

nigsonra

STATION HAS HAD MIXED RESULTS IN ITS EFFORTS TO LOCATE

AND

SET UP INTERVIENS HETWEEN THE THREE PERSONS SUAJECT REF B

WITH THE MSCA INVESTIGATORS. RAYMOND HO GERENDE HAS BEEN

CONTACTED AND AGREES TO MEET HIIH THE INVESTIGATORS.

FINAL

ARRANGEMENTS WILL BE MADE WITH HIM ON T AUG. STATION CANNOI

LOCATE LIONION/1 AND EDWARD GO TICHBORN IN MEXICO. IHEIR

NAMES DO

NOT APPEAR IN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION RECORDS AS BEING

PRESENT IN THE COUNTRY.

2.

STATION CHECKED LAST KNOWN ADDRESS OF TICHBORN GIVEN

DIRECTOR 261710.

PRESENT

OCCUPANT IS SRA. EMILIA LOPEZ AGUILAR

(NO RELATION) WHO DOES NOT KNOW TICHBORN.

.BUT DURING THE YEAR

SHE HAS LIVED AT THIS ADDRESS, SHE HAS RECEIVED MANY TELEPHONE

CALLS FROM PERSONS INQUIRING AS TO HIS WHEREABOUIS. ONE CALL

WAS FROM A BANK IN

GUADALAJARA TO ADVISE THAT TICHBORN WAS TO

RECEIVE AN INHERITANCE.

SHE HAS ALSO. RECEIVED CALLS FROM DEBT

COLLECTORS REPRESENTING MEXICO CITY DEPARTMENT STORES.

ALSO RECALLED THAT NOT TOO LONG AGO, AN UNIDENTIFIED MEXICAN

NATIONAL CAME TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD INQUIRING ABOUT TICHBORN AND

ALSQ ATTEMPIER TO ELICIT INFORMATION FROM HER CHILDREN ABOUT

TICHBORN®

EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY PREVIOUS TENANYS AT THIS ADDRESS

IN HOPES

THEY MAY HAVE SOME INFO HAVE BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL.

REQUEST HOS TRACE TICHBORN THROUGH HIS MOST RECENT ADDRESS IN

NEW YORK

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 1047459

PAGE 002

TOR: 2721397 JUL 78

IN 1047459

MEXI 46000

STATION OFFICER RECALLS THAT AT THE TIME OF LIONION I'S

TERMINATION THAT PAYMENT OF HIS TERMINATION BONUS WAS TO BE

MADE IN SPAIN THE PAYMENT WAS TO BE MADE BY AT

LEFT MEXICO.

OFFICER OR OTHER

IS DANT US A NATE SENSURE THAT HE

DESIGNEE. AGAIN, SUGGEST

ATTEMPT

LOCATE SUBJECT.

EFFORTS TO LOCATE LICOOKY/I ALSO UNSUCCESSFUL. THERE

IS ONLY ONE PERSON WITH SAME SURNAME LISTED IN MEXICO CITY

TELEPHONE DIRECTORY, SHE ADVISED STATION THAT SHE HAS NEVER

HEARD OF LICOOKY/1.

5. THE RECORDS OF CONSULATE IN MEXICO CITY WERE SEARCHED

BUT THERE IS NO RECORD OF LICOOKY/1, LIONION/1, DR EDWARD G.

TICHBORN®

RESULTS FROM CHECKS IN OUTLYING CONSULAR DISTRICTS

NOT YET AVAILABLE.

6. ATTEMPTING CONFIRM AVAILABILITY OF ACCOMMODATIONS REQUESTED

4 REF & FOR T AND A AUGUST. WILL ADVISE.

7. RESERVATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE FOR CAPTAIN GOODING AT THE

HOTEL BRISTOL FOR & THROUGH 10 AUGUST.

STATION PLANS MEET

CAPT, GOODING AT. THE MEXICO CITY AIRPORT AFTER HE DEPARTS CUSTOMS

AREA.

SUGGEST HE HOLD HIS OFFICIAL

PASSPORT IN RIGHT MAND TO

FACILITATE IDENTIFICATION.

BO NO FILE. EZ IMPDET.

END

OF MESSAGE

SE

. CRET

---

