# 104-10182-10074

## Page 1

10410182-10074)

./ldle0 Galled Demons'' Cold o.

SECRET

99 August 1962

i

Eleanor Reed

FROM

SUSJECT:

IR/CR

Appraisal of Interrogation

The eagerness of the subject to neip and lus repente

xpressions of regret for having neglected opportunities for mor

detailed observations left me with mixed reactions.

, this attitude detracted from ins cheruse seemingly genuere

manner and at least for me it "untered down" his attempt to generate

a repentart impression.

The subject readily arswered questions and was extremely

friendly during both periods of interrogation.

Plottings and data,

however, by the subject on a blank town plan left him for homework

later proved disoriented.

The subject discovered his error during

our second meeting and volunteered corrections.

3. As far as substantive intelligence gouned is concernea

tie inerrogation provided dace on a plant previously described

as possibly in the electronics business as a probable radar storage

ard repair area.

A hitherto unkron naval installation was also

identified and located.

The pilot plant of the subject's emoloying

institute was identified and located in an area other than the one

previously assumed.

It can be said that is the subject's bond fides are

definitely established, positive intelligerice gathered from him is

of real value.

103

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

loungrading ano

leclassification

SECRET

2/128

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

