# 104-10124-10147

## Page 1

104-10124-10147

REFERENCE:

Cuief, TSD/Security

Chief, Security Staff, Ol

Identi-Kit

Memo fron Chief, TSD/Security, to Chief, SS/O1, dated

21 Merch 1960, Subject as above.

21 kpril 1960

1. On 5 April 1960 the undersigned interviewed Chief Hugh 6.

MeDonald, Los Angeles County Sheriffs Departuent, in his office,

Roon 123, New Court House Building, Located et lll North Hilt Streat,

Los Anzeles, Callforale, (Telephones NAdison 5-3414, Extensiaa 61401.):

The attached "Face Building" article taken fron the Februery

1960 issue of the "Science and Eechanics"Magazine, vas revlewed and dis

cussed.

Chief McDonald stated that he was aware of the article and

had talked with Mr. Courtney Owens, Sales Manager of Tonsend Engineered

Products, regarding the indication of"undervritten by an arn of the U. S.

Intelligence®

3. The article was written by a free lance reporter. by the name of

Joseph Frank.

Writer Joseph Frank was present at a press mesting in

Chief McDonald's office at the time the information regarding the Identl-

K1t was made public, however, Chief McDonald made it very clear that the

sponsor of the program was not mentioned and that a general figure of

$60,000 to $65,000 was given as the cost of the project. Chief McDonald

thought back and then stated that he had announced the sponsor, as being

"an Eastern custoner".

wrlter Joseph Frank.

Chief McDonald was very much disturbed by this article and stated

that if he could uncover any Infornation regarding same he would promptly

notify the appropriate geney persons.

On & April 1960, the underaigned intervioved Mr. Courtney Elvell

California...

26 January 1960. Mr. Ovens was'l

was. taken from him.

24

OL U 2440

---

## Page 2

SUBJECT! "Ident1-K1t"

how but ho Qua statod hat he do not a of ed. a can hat

worked In the governnent in washington, D. C., and he steted that thin

project sounded like it would be of Ajency loterest.

RUST

when Mr. Ovens cane to los ingeles, he worked an e free lance,

used. He did not know of & Joseph Frank,

9. Mr. Quene stated that he has alvery clone contact with it, bivonon;

Los Angoles 00/G Office,

but aid not indicate if the mibfoot of the Identl

KIt had ever ben discussed, Me, Ovens gave the under Igned tho attached

press notices that he usea in connection with his pablloity program. it

is noted that none of the releases reveal Agency Interests horever,

neuspaper "Independent" quotes Chief MaDonald as stating "the pilot model

cost sore than $87,000".

16lu 0

#. Edward Jones

Security Offloer,

SS/oL

Si

APPROVED!

JOHN M CURRAH, CHIFF, SS/CL

Attach

Distributions

Addressee

w/a

PSD, O$ (Attas Me.

Zava, 00/90

Coo

tito (Counsend) w/a

Chrone

vendiman) vo/e

---

