# 104-10103-10112

## Page 1

104-10103-10112,; -

PROCESSING

DISPATCHTA

TO,

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

AKR

SUBJECT Operational/TYPIC/AMTRUNK

Project AMTRUNK Operational Review

ACTION REQUIRED. - RE

PRO.

POSED

AIT ANTE

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

PRIORITY

ACTION: Request Headquarters decision on continuation or

termination of Project AMTRUNK.

ACCOM

PLISHED

Attached herewith is an operational review of and progress

report on

the AMTRUNK team for the period of 4 through 31 March.

Station views on the operation are summarized below.

2.

The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages or weak-

nesses:

MAREND

A.

The AlTrunkers admit to being anti-KUBARK and to be working

words, these 28

these agents

It

is believed that if the operation were to develop, control would

diminish rather than increase in the advanced stages of the operation,

Since

the need for KUBARK assistance will decrease as operational

successes increase.

It is believed that AMICE 21 would have no

hesitation

"selling out" the operation to any one of the major re-

at any time that he felt it advantageous to

do so.

It is believed

that,

most likely

If he is not already doing so, he is

to collaborate with either the Segundo Frente del Es-

cambray,

headed by Eloy,

Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed

by Manuel Ray.

In the meantime AMICE/27 will attempt to have his

own way with

the operation.

He helieves that he is receiving special

attention because of his ZRMETAL connections, and he

Want not hesit

tate to go behind KUBARK's back to AMTRUNK/i.

AMCAPE/I4 And ODACID

to AMCAPE/1, "masterminded" this operation in the first place, it may

be assumed that

the AMTRUNKS will withhold nothing from AMTRUNK/1.

SZULC

Distribution:

3 - C/SAS w/attchs

9E11619-0-943

146-84 STATE

CROSS REFERENCE TO TA STa...

WASTE T

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

15. April 196RAPR

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

coungrading. ang

DESENSITIZED

UFGA-8381

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

IS 8SN 49-43

AL ASSIBICATO

NOR EIT

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

\ Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

. OF OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCH SYMBOL, AND NUMBER

UFGA - 8381

AMTRUNK/1 in turn may be expected to keep AMCAPE/1 fully informed.

ThErE iS hO KUBARK control over AMTRUNK/1 Or AMCAPPYI

B.

This operation has a very high "flar potential" if any AMTRUNK

agents are picked up by.

the opposition in Cuba.

Not only will

KUBARK stand to suffer, but ODACID will be tied directly in to the

operation,

as may also

QKFLOWAGE, by whom AMTRUNK/1 is employed,

and weet and his newspaper.

The latter could prove to be most

embarrassing and should be fully recognized as a possibility, if

not a probability, in the event any of the AMTRUNK team fall

Castro's hands.

NEW YORK TIMES

C. ' The security of this operation has certain questionable aspects.

At least six people were told about the operation in varying degrees

prior to the

time the team was safehoused.

-helt security auring

LCFLUTTER tests

is withholding information.of an unknown nature from his KUBARK con-

An undercurrent of friction has recently developed between

AMICE/14 and ANTRUNK/3 which manifested itself in a fistfight on

29 March.

This was precipitated by AMTRUNK/3 who called AMICE/14

the Cuban term for a homosexual, the ultimate insult to a Cuban.

This in turn gives rise to the question whether AMICE/14,

with a

possible history of homosexual activity (see UFGA-8411), has made

such an approach. to AMTRUNK/3.

The commitments made to AMICE/27 or which AMICE/27 claims were

made to him are a matter of concern to the Station.

This is an

over which future misunderstanding or aggravation might easily

develop.

E: The Phase I landing point appears highly risky.

It is within

five miles of a cruise missile site radar, and in an area frequently

patrolled by sea.

RABEZ Nunez

F. This aperation appears possibly competitive with AMLEO 3 opera-

tions aimed also

at penetrating high military

levels for the same

Given the Tack of control in the AMTRUNK operation,

Possibility of the two operations crossing or targetting on the same

individual will be present.

In examining the strengths of the AMTRUNK operation,

group as a whole represents superior agent materiel. Three of the

four have been

They appear to have a

number of fairly well placed contacts on the inside whom they ex-

pect to be able to call on for assistance.

Although they have

been out of direct touch with a number of

these contacts for periods

ranging up to two years, this is frequently. the case in this type

of operation. The objective of the operation is worthwhile.

* aisadvantages out lined above a ternat

Based on the attached operational review and the advantages and

recommendation of JMWAVE

Station that this operation be terminated.

at the eartest possule

moment, Since this operation originated

at the Headquarters level

In the mine, mas and pramane

meantime,

, training and

planning will continue.

INWAVE as to its decision.

11 Head-

quarters'

decision is

to continue with the operation

operational plans for

at

Phase I and Phase II

will be submitted as

ittes lame, l,

formulated.

END OF MESSAGE

3,245

FORM

5.60

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2.

---

## Page 3

31 March 1963

RImOTed fON FrOJOSt AMTRUVK

Co. 070617147804769-6-8413

Pola:

PROJECT AMTRUNK OPERATIONAL REVIEW

I. STATUS REPORT ON TRAINING AND PROCESSING, 4-31 MARCH.

The AMTRUNK Team, consisting of AMICE/27,

AMICE/14,

•and AMTRUNK/3 were safehoused on 4 March

AMTRUNK/2,

1963 at Safesite #164

on Plantation Key..

Andrew S. PARMERS, KUROAR instructor from

headquarters,

was already at the training site when the team

was brought there by the two case officers, Irving N. PEGGINS

and Hobart J. VANDEBORN. PARMERS remained

at the safesite

until 16 March during which time he conducted training in

clandestine. methods and techniques.

This training included

security, cover and compartmentation, clandestine communica-

tions,

agent spotting, selection, recruitment and management,

and operational planning and reporting.

The training included

group discussion and participation in

a series of appropriate

operational situations, several problems,

and daily physical

training.

During this

two week period,

either PEGGINS or

VANDEBORN visited the safesite every

day, spending an average

of two or three hours with the group in operational dis-

cussions and processing.

During the week of 18 thru 23 March,

both case officers spent a majority of the time with the group,

debriefing them in detail on

their operational contacts, workin

out operational details of their infiltration, and continuing

their training on an informal basis.

The week of

25 through

30 March was spent in PM-type training with emphasis on compass

and map reading, including two night problems,

and on weapons

familiarization

and firing.

During the period under dis-

cussion the AMTRUNK group were all LCFLUTTERED,

were assessed

by the KUROAR assessment team, were given an initial series

of immunizations, were issued

clothing, were processed for

allas documentation, were processed for disguises,

and were

further processed on cover and finance problems.

The re-

sults of the LCFLUTTER examinations were sent to headquarters

under cover of UFGA-8111,

on 13 March 1963.

Based on DIR

26430,

no

further LCFLUTTER is planned at the present time.

Transmitted as attachment "A" to this dispatch is PARMERS

report on his

training of the AMTRUNK group, transmitted as

attachment "B" are the results of the assessments of the

ANTRUNK group,

and transmitted

as attachment "C" is the

training report for the week of 25 March.

I1. AMTRUNK MISSION OBJECTIVE

the proiect ANTRUnK Mission objective is to overthrow the

existing

Cuban government by means

high lever military and civilian

"ot a conspiracy among

Teaders ol the government

culminatine in a

coup d'etat which will oust both castro and

DESENSIRZED

STE CHRIENTA

per CSH-43-49

---

## Page 4

SARACHR FAMI

= 2=

the Communists from power A secondary and subordinate

mission is to determine the climate prevailing among the

populace in Havana for organizing resistance elements capable

of either passive or active sabotage.

This secondary mission

is exploratory

in nature only, through the first phases of

the project.

In order to accomplish the foregoing missions,

the operation has been split into two initial phases, which

1111. be compartmented from each other. - Phase One involves

he black infiltration of AMTRUNK/2 and 3 on the north coast

of Havana province.

These two individuals plan to go into

Havana for a period of approximately two weeks, and then

exfiltrate black from the same point at which

they infiltrated.

involving AMICE/27 and AMICE/14, will consist of

of. Matanzas.

These two individuals will likewise go into

Havana for a period of several weeks and then exfiltrate black.

These two phases are discussed in detail in following para-

graphs. Phase. One and Phase Two are preliminary infiltrations

designed to set up infiltration/ exfiltration routes and to

make Initial contacts among certain select high level military

figures in Havana.

The following paragraphs discussing these

phases are not designed to be operational plans.

Detailed

operational plans for each phase will be forwarded as de-

veloped.

III. PHASE I.

A. AMTRUNK Personnel of

1. AMTRUNK/2 is a (21)year old Cuban who is mature for his

years, and in some degree experienced in clandestine opera-

tions.

He attended Catholic Socialiniversity in Havana for

two years,

majoring in Social Studies

Prior to Fidel's

takeover A/2 was allied to student elements of the Partido

Autentico which upheld the constitution of 1940.

He supported

the revolution against Batista till it became apparent that

Castro had cast his lot for a Communist regime.

During his

university years from 1959 to 1961 he was actively engaged

in supporting anti-Castro groups with weapons and materials.

Following the Playa Giron invasiona great many in the Havana

underground were rolled up but A/2 avoided compromise.

He

continued

in this work through 1961 and finally left Cuba

via air in January 1962

Although A/2 does not consider

himself an ally of kUBArk he has been

cooperative throughout

histraining.

He.is a pensive individual who displays good

judgement.

be one

of

His present attitude "towards KUBARK appears to

"wait and see"

In

the meanwhile, he is con-

scientiously applying himself in preparation for his mission.

S; ENOR ET

3/pV

---

## Page 5

08.-3

2 d AMTRUNK/3. a 22] year old Cuban, in contrast to A/2,

is

volate immature ancampu saye

On the other hand he is

uite loyal to A/z and his quick wit is appealing to hi

fellow team members.

He worked under A/2 in

the underground

as an action type,

principally engaging in sabotage.

His

underground work began while he was

in secondary school

when in 1958 he supported the revolution against Batista..

In late 1960 he sided with the

counter-revolutionaries and

began full time anti-Castro activities.

After

the crack

down following the Bay of Pigs invasion he avoided detection

and continued to engage in underground activities. Finally

liami 191 Situation

became hopeless he left Cuba by air for

August 1962.

While A/3 has performed satisfactorily

in his training up to date, his performance falls far short

of the other three members. A/3 feels KUBARK should only

Fortunately his

role in this operation is comparatively minor and he appears

willing to comply with whatever A/2 decides.

Nevertheless,

direct control of A/3 offers problems in the future.

B.

TASKS

Conduct black infiltration landing at Punta La Jijira

farm manager at

Coords 993614508

2.

Through contacts of A/3 obtain transportation for A/2

to Guanaba or Havana.

3. Although not definite, A/3 may remain at his father's

tarm and train assets in maritime reception and clandestine

Having completed this he would then be ex-

filtrated at Punta Jijira.

4.

A/2 will go to Havana and obtain safehouse and operational

support through his contacts.

5. A/2 will contact and develop two potential assets with

high level connections within the Rebel Army.

6. A/2 will train support and operational assets in clandes-

tine communications as well as arrange for transportation for

his exfiltration.

Exfiltration of A/2 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido

(AMS 3885 II).

---

## Page 6

C.

D.

ol

19/p8

INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

1.

Punta La Jijira is 18 May

The tentative date lOuthe Infiltration of A/2 and 3 at

The infiltrees will make

their way to A/3's father's farm one kilometer from the coast

and from

there A/2 will be provided with transportation

to go

to Guanabo or Havana.

The exfiltration of A/3 will occur three days after his

infiltration.

This arrangment, as yet, is not definite.

3. The exfiltration of A/2 is tentatively planned for 31

May 1963 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido.

A/3 feels

that Puerto Escondido would afford a more secure point for

exfiltration but that a reconnaisance of the area would be

necessary before final decision is reached.

Prearranged

telegram signal

would indicate his preference.

The above dates fall within a favorable moon phase for

maritime operations.

In addition the infil-exfil schedule

for an extra margin beyond the 10 days which A/2

considers the minimum acceptable period of time to make his

contacts..

OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

Following the successful infiltration of A/2 and 3 the 24

the farm named

is married and nas an elementary school education.

no record of underground activity.

A/3 will depend upon

to make the following contacts in order to obtain

transportation to Guanabo or Havana:

Or gie we nonspoke lives allow kilometers away in

of butcher shop in the area and also owns a truck.

owns a small farm and a

ot 137 to 4Q years of age, married with six or seven children.

He was jailed for a brief period in the past for counter-

revolutionary

%activities.

lis unsucceseful!

in getting

truck

he will contact

no children, wife's name is

Santa Cruz del Nortel in 195x. ne owns a jeep.

SECRET

19-6.

---

## Page 7

S

Another contact of A/3 is

grade education.

06

age .21,

ne providea support in

of Havana.

to be safehoused in Havana.

2.

The following assets would be contacted by A/2 after

arriving in Havana.

They will be contacted in the order

listed.

Their function will be to provide safehouses and

vehicles for A/2.

25) years of age,

born in Havana.

A/2 first met her when she was a student at the University

of Havana majoring in Social Sciences.

with her aunt in Havana and A/2 has maintained cor-

respondence with her.

She has helped previously in

providing safehousing for the underground. She also has

06.0б

age 55) born in Havana.

He is 'Physician who lives and practices medicine in

Havana.0l

has helped A/2 in underground activi-

ties previously.

'He has a brother, two daughters and

a son now residing in the U.S.

His daughters live in'

New Jersey and were last seen by A/2 about six months

Subject was a member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano

an anti-Batista group,

and was a professor of (medicine od

08 former (genator (1954) sabout (50) born in Cienfuegos,

as well as the former head of

Railroad system in Cuba. Subject was originally a member

of the Autentico Party and claimed. to be a KUBARK con-

ment and two cars and has previousy neiped A/2 in under-

ground activities. He has a daughter who works for + 08

overnment but is not sympathetic to the regime

usband of this daughter, however, works for Che Guevara.

A/2 has maiptained correspondence

age about (35) born in Havana, single.

She was A/2's

to the underground.

lives by herself, has an automobile and is a

close friend of A/2 and his wife.

B.C REnT

26/ pV

---

## Page 8

i- 6 -

08

age(23-24, born in Havana, single,

motner ana rather deceased. She attended_ the University

of Havana and Villanova from 1959 to 1960]

She became

a close friend of A/2 during their student days in

Havana, he has no record of underground work.

lives in Guanabo Beach) during the summer:

might attempt to contact her if she was living at

Guanabo Beach in order to safehouse A/3 there if necessary

The following two operational assets will be contacted

A/2 after he is safehoused

in Havana.

Their function will be

to spot Army officers disaffected with the Castro Regime.

age late 30s early 405) married.

Subject

holas the rank of Captainin the Rebel Army but

presently on active duty .Ohe was a friend of Castro'.

suring the revolution and A/2 claims he still maintain

some contact with Fidel.. He also claim

has been

working in a limited fashion against Fider ana was

originally associated with the MRR and Monte Cristo

primary interest has been trying to or-

ganize his Iriends within the Rebel Army against Fidel.

Is a very discreet individual who has

not been identified as an anti-Castro organizer axe

A/2 claims to be a close friend of

-rusts him completely. ' A/2 saw and talked to

090962) prior to his flying out of PBRUMEN as a terugeat

age early 40s served in the

•S. Army)during World War II.

ccordine to A2

06

0b

was removed from the post and pre

SENtIY LIVES on an

rmy pension as well as rovaltie

-pperty confiscated by the government.

He said

started working against Castro within the _MRP

under Manuel RAY.

secretary of the

plotting against Fidel.06A/2 also stated that it was

rumored at the time that

was working for the

MRP that he was also a KUBARK agent.

Eventually

to A/2 was nlafed on a G-2 suspect list, but according

Was able

to evade detection. Subject

has good connections

within the Rebel Army and re-

volutionary

government.

A/2 trusts this individual

and has confidence in him as a potential operational

lead in spite of conflicting reports which mention

as an opportunist.

S XE

GER

---

## Page 9

C.

A/2 may also attempt to contact the following

operational

asset if he has an opportunity

to make

contact.

06

age late 30s early 40s, married,

former member of the Partido Pueblo Cubano.

• fought with Raul Castro in the Sierra Cristobal

Following the Castro takeover he served as nead of Jo&

one of the military zones within Havana province.

Eventually

assisted his underground group

during. 196T by supplying trucks for transporting

weapons and materials.

E. COVER AND. COMMUNICATIONS

1. Cover

A/2 will be issued documentation claiming he is an employee

of à local brewery in Havana.

A/3 on the other hand will be

issued documentation as a bus driver within the city of Havana.

also be issued drivers licenses and additional

items such as immunization certificates, Cuban receipts, etc.

The two men will also be outfitted with disguises.

2. Communications

Primary

communications will be established through an SW

system.

Both men will be given SW instruction and will be

accommodation addresses in Miami.

This instruction

and these addresses in turn will be passed on to the recruited

in PBRUMEN for use as the operation develops. Pre-

arranged signals will also be devised for use by the team via

telegram to indicate their progress and confirm their place

and time of exfiltration. Both members will also be given an

OWVL system to provide them with quick instructions in case

of an emergency.

F. OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION

1.

The operational aspects of Phase I portrays a mission which

has considerable potential but also considerable risk.

The

area of infiltration is within five miles of a cruise missile

site and its accompanying radar. „In addition boat patrols are

known to work this portion of the coast at frequent intervals.

Once infiltrated the team will not have to travel far before

24

ather's farm fox any length of time and he does not want his

first contact.

A/3 is leary of staying at his

24 (father)to know of his presence in Cuba.

For this reason the

'farm will not be able to serve as a safehouse. A/2 plans on

leaving the

arm the same day

lands.

This

presents the

problem

I what to do with.iA/s

On approach is to take A/3

SECRET.

---

## Page 10

S

to Guanabo or Havana and safehouse him.

This, however,

may

jeopardize the operation because A/3 lacks the maturity and

patience necessary to stay put while A/2 goes about his busi-

ness.

He may take advantage of his visit to Havana to under-

take a clandestine assignment on his own.

When A/2 and 3

step ashore in Cuba, control will vanish.

Fortunately A/2

has a sufficient resource of judgement to go about his busi

ness competently.

Unfortunately A/3 gives no such indication.

For this reason an attempt will be made to steer A/3 towards

developing assets around his (lather's farm]vath maritime

reception capabilities.

2. .

A/2,

on the other hand, appears to have a sufficient numbe:

o supporting assets to provide for his safety while in Havana

However, he has not seel

and

for over a year.

addition both men are presently outside of the Cuban Army

organization and this position may dampen their effectiveness

in recruiting within the Army. / Station reports of

con-

flict with A/2's evaluation ofothis man.

While there is no

evidence to verify that

is pro-regime, there has beer

a recent report on him from AMLEO/3 which claims

mark next to the worth off

which unfortunately can only

be resolved by direct contact between him and A/2.

There are

other security implications which should be discussed in this

evaluation.

Both A/2 and A/3 cannot be considered truly se-

curity conscious.

While safehoused A/2 wrote a letter to a

contact in Miami

which was to be transmitted by his case

officer.

The letter gave an indication that A/2 was seeking

contacts in Havana and conveyed the impression that a trip

was in

the dfing.

A/2 has written several other letters

not seen by his C Os which might have given the same impres-

sion.- AB on the other hand talked quite freely about his

first to Miami and then to Cuba.

to his (father's farm and begin to make contacts.

Once there they would go

A/3 also

stated

that a man named l

would be one of their con-

tacts.

This loose talk coupied with A/3's attitude that

KUBARK exists only to serve him makes him a marginal candi-

date for this operation. However, if A/3 is exfiltrated

three days

after his entry into Cuba,

the operation will

gain, his usefulness and eliminate some of the risk he

presents.

S

---

## Page 11

-/-

3. The above evaluation stresses the operational and security

weeknesses in this operation.

In contrast to these weaknesses

are the positive considerations of this mission.

intelligence, competence,

A/2 has the

and confidence to approach and

T'e-

cruit two assets with the potential for developing anti-regime

operations. at a high level within the Cuban Army.

The results

which these anti-regime activities can accomplish is a matter

for conjecture but it appears that they carry potential.

Nevertheless, if the operation continues, it will bear

close

watching. in

terms of security and control for these factors

will jeopardize the operation as well as KUBARK's position

if not properly contained:

IV. PHASE II

A. AMTRUNK PERSONNEL

1.

1S a 41

year old PBRUMEN citizen from

i citizen from a wearthy Naouls Fam 1y.

His father, now deceased, was a prominent individual in law

politics and was at one time a senator. A/27 himself

graduated from law school in Habana and was a practising

lawyer.

In 1959 he became legal adviser to Camilio Cienfuegos.

Following the disappearance of Cienfuegos in October 1959,

A/27 began to engage in counter-revolutionary activities.

In May 1961,

at which time he held the position of Under-

Secretary of Public Works, he felt that his underground

• activities. had come to the attention of the government and

he took refuge along with his wife in the Venezuelan Embassy.

given safe conduct from the Embassy to PBPRIME in late

Subject is intelligent, articulate, and highly moti-

He has some experience in counter-revolutionary

activities and has demonstrated an excellent capacity for

learning clandestine techniques.

He has a very

and aristocratic pride, is very

large ego,

sensitive, and is quick to

OF KUBARK, that he is not to tAt

sents any implication that he

he did ye

that he is

working

r the overthrow of the present

regime in his own country and that he will accept KUBARK aid

and advice but will not accept KUBARK control.

His attitude

although not hostile, is frequently critical, and he pre-

sents a difficult handling problem.

AMICE/14 is a 26 year old Cuban citizen who is also a

law graduate. of the University of Havana.

He has been in-

volved much of his adult life in clandestine activities.

Subject arrived by small boat in June

1961 in PBPRIME. He

is highly motivated, is intelligent and objective, and has

a very highly developed security

from his counter-revolutionary

consciousness, developed

experiences.

From January

to July 1961 he made foua block

•filtration/exfiltration

trips to and

and has an excellent

knowledge of the

northe

area.

He is easy to work

19-6-81

---

## Page 12

SECRET

- 10 ÷

with and has evidenced little of the hostilities or anti-

KUBARK feelings shown by AMICB/278

o Cardens areas took

• AWTRUNK/4. Subject is a 49 year old fisherman from the

*In PRIME in February 1963.

He had previously assisted A/14 in infils and exfils and will

B. TASKS

Make preliminary black maritime infiltration by small

boat onto Cinco Leguas Key (AMS Map 4085 III) to contact

individuals who formerly assisted AMICE/14 in infil-exfil

operations.

2.: Through contacts on Cinco Leguas Key, organize a ratline

into the mainland,

including making arrangements for trans-

portation into Havana.

Through the mechanism established above, move to Havana

and obtain safehousing and operational support.

Make all necessary arrangements for subsequent exfil-.

tration and future infiltrations.

5.

Approach and recruit two key individuals with contacts

among important military figures.

6. Establish internal and external communications.

7.. Exfiltrate from Phase II.

C.

INFIL-EXFIL PLANS

Subjects will take a small boat with silent motor

anto the keyubaeet and remain in the area for approximately

three days, during which time they will remain black, keep

the boat hidden in the mangroves, and contact individuals

known to them on Cinco Leguas.

They will make arrangements

with contacts at that point to re-activate contacts of AMICE/14

on the mainland at Casualidad (Map 4085 III, Grid Square 1747)

and contacts in the town of Marti and Cardenas. Plans will be

worses out at this time with these contacts for a second ine

at which time AMICE/ZY

and AMICE/14 will

and Ants/14 it aate otto neo Lewas and expect to be

passed on through these contacts to Havana.

Subjects will

exfiltrate by small boat on or about 26 April and will be met

by the parent craft in

open water to the north of Cayo Cruz

del Padre (Map sheet 4085 IV).

SHENCERIC T

---

## Page 13

SE

NEAT

D. OPERATIONAL ASSETS WITHIN CUBA

Cayo Cinco Leguas.

This key is used for productión of

charcoal and salt.

Residents are reported solidly anti-

cor unfits and exhale no tacan that he used refously

Tango is a brother of

7(201-307338 06,08

whom A/14 wanted to use as a guide in this operation, but who

was already being utilized elsewhered

The other contact is

the owner of the Salina (salt drying beds)

been able to recall this individual's name or A/14 has not yet

2. Finça Casualidad. This area is directly south of Cinco

beguas. on the mainland.

not related to Tango,

of' whom have small farms in the area.

Koy contad te here are

above) and

and has a jeep which

was used previously by A/14 for operational purposes.

City of Cardenas:

o Bate Marino restaurant? Subtect Is a close triend oAth

owner of the

who assisted him previously with transportation for maritime

receptions.

Havana. Owns a car.

would be used to take A/14 and A/27 to

5. "City of Matanzas.

A-14 has a friend here named

Subject has a son Carlos) now.

will be contacted for transpor-

tation to Havana. Owns a car.

owns a car and was formerly a

close friend of A/14.

Subject was formerly active in the

undergroundland might be used by A/14 in the event he coulc

f8r obtaining transportation. 16.8

Is use brother of the communist

but is reported to be anti-communist himself.

7. Havana

06

Subject is single and lives

with her mother.

of AMICE/27 (possibly mis-

i sister of

a Commandante inthe Navy

yho, according to A/27, was at one time chief of naval

operations. His present assignment or

unknown.

23/pv

---

## Page 14

b.

Is a close friend of A14

and is uncle of A/14's wifef can be used for operational

support,

in out, te und and salehousekeepiut no Is for ery a lt.

but no longer in army.

A/1.4 believes he is now an adminstrator of some type of

industry in Havana.

C.

Subject is aunt of A/14

and can ve usea as satenouse keeper.

She is single, lives

alone except for ten cats.

Does not have a car.

Was

formerly a teacher but now has a pension and does not work.

d.

Subject is a relative of

A/27 and can be called on for ops support

or safehousing.

Subject has a car, is married, no children, is in his

sixties.

To be recruited by "A/14 as his prin-

cipar agent in Havana.

together in the underground.0

rosuatect and a 14 previously

was in the Sierra

with Castro and also fought in vamagrey:

He resigned from

the army in February. 1959, although he has maintained many

contacts within the army.

Was one time active in the o

Moviniento Democratico Martiano and was a friend of

who was shot by Castro in Pinar del Rio.

Subject came to PBPRIME in April 1961 with A/14 to obtain

arms and remained there 10 days, infiltrating back into

Cuba without his absence having

been known to the authori-

ties.

Was responsible for safehousekeeping

for nearly one month when authorities were searching for

him.

Will be used for intel collection and spotting on

defectable army officers.

He is also known to A/27,

not well.

A/14 was last in touch with

ly letter

about two months ago.

f.

Subject to be recruited by A/27

as principal agent.

Ramon (Cula) playould be used for operational in-

telligence and spotting among disaffected arms officers..

Would be kept entirely compartmented from

06 Guin

is an army Comandante, now managing a large INKA farm

complex outside of Havana.

He is known to A/27 and A/14,

both of whom believe he can be contacted safely.

He is

anti-Communist and is one of the group of Camilo Cienfuegos

officers contacted by A/27 in early 1961 to join in an

overthrow of. the government.

SECRET

---

## Page 15

- 13'

8.

Target personalities who are suspected of being dis-

affected

and

on whom A/27 and A/14 will attempt to gather

•information in Havana are as follows:

1.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11

12.

13.

Comandante "Macho" Parra

Cdte. Oscar Guerra

Jose Pinares

Capt. FNU Lawton

Manuel Avila

Cmdte. Rene de los Santos

Pedro Miret

Capt.

Juan Nuiry

Cmate: Rafael Suarez More

Capt.

Fernando Fernandez Superville

Capt. FNU Guerra Matos

Capt. Sandy Olivares

Jose Fernandez Alvarez

These

names have ald been checked through JMWAVE RI and

in nost cases also with AVindo/3.

In a majority of cases

there appears to

"be some evidence to indicate the subjects

may be disaffected.

In the case of Jose Pinares however,

it would appear that he is completely loyal to the regine

This information was passed on to A/27 and A/14. RI files

were negative: on Avila and Lawton.

E .

COVER AND COMMUNICATIONS

AMICE/27 and AMICE/14 will live black during their entire stay

in Cuba.

They will be equipped with alias

documentation and

with disguises.

Both of them have previously lived in the

Havana area

and know the city well.

They will be trained in

Secret Writing (SW) and will plan to train at least two and

possible three agents in Havana in SW, prior to their own

exfiltration.

In addition, it is planned to train A/27 and

A/14 in OWVL. At the time of infiltration, exfiltration plans

will have been laid on with the agents.

In the event that a

change in time or location of exfiltration becomes necessary,

an OWVL message could be sent to the agents.

Any urgent

and

immediate message which might have to be sent by the

agents

during their short stay in Havana would be on a prearranged

open code system by commercial telegram.

Such a system will

be worked out to cover several possible

contingencies.

In-

ternal communications of whatever net is organized by A/27

and A/14 will be arranged by courier, cut-out, live and dead

drops.

F. OPERATIONAL AND SECURITY EVALUATION

1. The LCFLUTTER examinations on both AMICE 27 and AMICE 14

eke inconclusive.

Although it is the opinion of both the

case officers and the training personnel who have been i

close contact with

these individuals that both agents are

---

## Page 16

E

highly

motivated and strongly anti-communist,

this point will

remain basically unresolved since it is almost certain that

A/27 would refuse a second LCFLUTTER examination if asked.

It is helieved that A/27 was withholding information curing

the LCELUTTER and subsequently.

The nature, seriousness, and

possible consequences of this are as yet not clear.

2. 1/27 has told at least two people something ahout this

operation

Although he says

that he did not give any details

of the operation, he does admit to having discussed it in

very general terms with two individuals whom he named at

the time of the LCFLUTTER test.

One of these is a friend

AMICE/27 has not seen his contacts in the army for the

past two years.

Although it is difficult to assess how well

he knows various persons in the military about whom he speaks,

officer's opinion that few of these contacts

might be considered really close.

AMICE/14 has been out of

direct touch with his operational contacts since July 1961.

4. The infiltration into Cayo Cinco Leguas is dependent

upon having a good guide in the boat.

At this time,

Phase

II is awaiting the recruitment of AMTRUNK/4 as guide.

Control over AMICE/27 and AMICE/14 is basically lacking.

Some control can be exerted through the implied threat of

withholding support to the operation.

Control however will

remain tenuous at best and A/27 will continue to be a dif-

ficult handling problem.

On the positive side of the ledger is the calibre of the

agents, both of whom are well educated, astute, and highly

BoTh agents have experience in clandestine opera.

tions, particularly A/14 who has made a number of previous

clandestine entries and exits and has many operational con-

To date both have performed in a superior manner in

training.

V. FUTURE PLANS

Duringthe week of l through 6 April,

the team will receive

maritime instruction.

During the week 8 through 13 April,

they will receive SW training, possibly OWVL

training, dis-

guise training, and further operational planning sessions.

VI.

COMMITMENTS

1. According to AMICH/27. the following principle, which he

reces 1s a commitment

from ODYOKE

enunciated during his

"ZRMETAL:

"ODYOKE will recognize a new Cubar

SECRET

---

## Page 17

S

government which

is anti-Communist and which operates on

democratic principles;

ODYOKE does not desire to impose a

government of its own choice upon Cuba"..

A/27 has made

big point of discussing this "commitment".

It is apparent

that he intensely dislikes (or fears?) Batista and his

followers.

It is also apparent that

in his mind he links

Batista and. KUBARK, and fears that KUBARK would back Batis-

tianos in a post-Castro government.

2.

All AMTRUNK group members think that they received a

comm ment hiTe in ZRMPYAL that ODYOke would support their

operational plan, with funds,

training

, Logstcar support

and technical

assistance, but would leave control of the

operation entirely in

their hands

In other words i they

are not working for ODYOKE Or KUBARK in any sense.

On this

point they are

very sensitive.

Another commitment which AMICE/27 claims to have discussed

HiN"/"O in ZRMETAL is that ODYOKE should give "official recognition"

to members of a conspiracy which culminates in a successful

coup d'etat, following the coup, in order that these individual:

will

not be treated as political criminals by a future regime.

This means recognition of an individual's participation in

the conspiracy, not a promise of recognition of a specific

government formed by the conspirators themselves.

Discussion of the above "commitments" has been pressed

several times by A/27.

PEGGINS has not agreed to any of these

commitments with A/27. However, A/27 feels that the com-

mitments have already been made by ODYOKE in ZRMETAL.

PEGGINS

has told A/27 that he will report these

"commitments" back

to ODYOKE to determine 1f, in fact, ODYOKE considers them as

The.endy_commi.tmentmade_by IMWAVE through PEGGINS has

been that if any of the AMTRUNK group were killed or captured

PEGGINS declined to state what that time would be or how much

financial assistance would be involved.

6.

One further negative commitment has been discussed between

PEGGINS and A/27.

mitment will be made at this time to support any internal

group organized by the AMTRUNKS with weapons or explosives

and that this extends specifically to no promise to support

active sabotage with demolitions.

N.

19-6-5111

---

