# 104-10100-10225

## Page 1

104-10100-10225

25.9

DAlE :

TO : BOOK MINANCH AS BELO

: FROM: PRECTOR

171. 1? 14.

DER ME CETE

INER. CAE, CAlORDO, FO! A, FIlINT E.

BOUT! ME:

•, d

99

GIlE LAR

76218

24

DEAR BANT - APRICA ONE

1. CONGO: //CUMRIT POLIXICAL MAMBUVINTIRE WITH THE CONCO

LUSE COVIT MAY BU AXID AT THY RUNACHINE ON VEINTER ADOTIA.

SORE ON ADOLA A MINUATRA NO FORRES CHENIOT HIAPORTERS HATE

TO RELACE TAX PARMIT CONSISTITE, ACCORDIRA TO CLAMORATINE SOURCES:

THE COMITTE IS TO BE HAD UY ME U D

AJAY, AND INCLUDES JUTICE MINISTER BOMBORO, BUARTE CHINE METARA;

DOCUTET TO PUBIDIAT CARAVURE FOR A BIGNITURE TODAY.

THIS SEROUS, VHICH IS GENERALLY VESTIRE ORIENTIO, 1B PORRIED

SY THN STIPPED-UP ACTIVITILE OF INE LITINIE LIPTIST NATIONALISTS,

RÉPRODUCTION SY OTHER

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

16056

---

## Page 2

CHE TED MESSAGE

Dit+

TUATER

EXT

DA::

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

TO

ROUTING

+T

Lilie

DEFERRID

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

75219

SAVE ALSO LOS BRIN CONCERNSO VITA DU IACULUSIAR LLADERZIIS AID

SIDICIRIVEURED OF ADOULA,

AT CHILE GENIRAL MODUTU NAX DA, CORRUCTER VITA TIE GROUR OR

AT LAABI NAT DACITIA RIPPORT ITS AIRS. MOPTY JAS RACKIIN RE

COME SRANTLE CRITICAL OR ADOCEA./

8... MONASCONTORORA,. ALEXALA DAS ANNOUNCED INE. MORILIZA-

TOU C ALL FONER FIGHTING ME AS SKIENNES ALONG THE UNDEFINIO

DORAR ANIA CONTINUE.

PROBA STORIES THAT TIR ARIA ON MIGATING IAS IELANAID BEYOND

MOROCHAN TROOPS ARE INCRETO ARE STILL SNCORTIRRIS, ALGERIAN AIR

STRIKI SOIR 160 MILES TO MARTIRANT REPORTID IN PARES ON 18 DET.

IN IN AN I OTIOL SPIT HAVE ESTABLIND THE

HFADQUANTERS AT MARRANECH. TACOVNITE, 35 MILS MONTH OF TINJOUB,

O APARTY IS SITIG USED AB THE FOLIARD MOROOCAT BASE.

IN ADDITION, AT ALENT IS BEING NALNTALND ALONG THE HASTKAN

ПОВОССА! BORDER.

MOON ON TA ALONEAN

IT WAS IN REINFORCIN IS MORE US MMER MATA THICKE

COONDINATINGLOIF

BIC.

REPODUCTION: BY OTHER HAN THEMSSUING OFFICES PROHIBITED! AN

---

## Page 3

CRIG &

CASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12-2:

ROUTING

-J-

76219

AREA.

L

BEN BEALA'S ENVOYS ARRIVED IN MARRAKECH 15 OCT FOR TALES WITH

MOROCCAN OFFICIALS, WHICH REPORTEDLY DID NOT 1O WELL.

3. TURKEY: THE INONU GOVERNIKIT HAS INDICATED TAT IT WILI

KXTEND MARTIAL LAW FOR TWO ADDITIONAL MONTHS, PRISUABLT BECAUSE

O CONTINJING UNSETTLED POLITICAL CONDITIONS, THIS WILL BE THE

THIRD ITINSION SINCE THE ABORTIVE MILITARY COUP OF LAST MAY.

REGIORAL AND LOCAL BLECTIONS SCHEDULED POR 17 MOVEBER MAY NOW BE

POSTPONED. (CONF)

4. FRANCE-IRAN: PRIME MINISTER ALAN EXPECTE DE OUTLE TO

OFVIR IRAN ICOHONIC ASSISTANCE, PRIMARILY CREDITE VOR THE PITRO

CHINICAL INDUSTRY AND ELECTRIFICATION, DURING A YOUR-DAY VIBIT T O

IRAN WHICH BEGINS TODAY. ALAM DID NOT SPECIFY THE AMOUNT OF TIE

CREDIT. FRENCH SOURCES DESCRIEE THE VISIST AS BLANGELY CEREMONIAL,

ALTHOUGH DE GAULLE VILL

MA

WE A MA:OR ADDRESS TO A JOINT SESSION

OF THE IRATIAN PARLIAMENT TOMORROE. (CONT)

ENDOR MESSAGE

147:8

differ get

F.T

Hate NiA

Kitbart

CAPING

Copy No.

---

