# 104-10071-10311

## Page 1

104-10071-10311

0E0030

¿ RETURN TO CLA

Background Une Only

¿ Do Not Repeodupe

Anne: 2972

MEJORANDUE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Rolando MASTERRER, JX.

Please be informod of a possible future contact --Rolnado

MASFERRER,

Jr., recently procoted

to vice-President: of Sales, M4X1

-Caty, Armament Corporation, Washington D.C. office,

Pla2a,

74020.

3905 t' Enfant.:

le is also assoclated with Paraleklum Corporation:

anothor military weapons firt.

Subject, born approximately 1945,:

tn. Babana, Cubs,

is believed

to be a naturalized citizen.

Subject makes froquent sales trips to, latin Anarica.

Because

ofithe

nature of his male

product (nachine pistols with stiercers) he

has good access to

top Latin Anerican governmental Octicials and :

military

and security officers.

de has persoally net mary Latin

Auerican presidents.

Bo should be a so.1

soards pe inforration on

the current status of aims sales in tin Arcicad laternal security,

military ar ament lovels, order-of-battle,

as hinternal oclitics in

host countries; and,

needed,

status of

Cuban exile movement.

Fle

is spesently

on a sales nission to Coloabia and Is?

in mid- Tune:

scheduled to return

3. 1

MASF EREER,

Ir. haw bees a liant resident lace,

1959 and 20r92

Lived in Atlanta'

tor, ecares when ha returns from bis colombian trip.

He will percanently locate in the Washing:

Subject.

is not to ho confused with bie case

*byn the

Same

Damed

the infamous Rolando Arcadio MASFERNER TRoJas (201-42669) •

was a former CubanySenator and leader of a dreaded

privato. amy of Bstista enforcers called 'Los Gigres (The rigers)

He storesently

to organtzs 4/1907 invasion of Haiti'in order, to set rup a base.

Masferrer Sr,y

in livolved an numerous Cuban exile operations against Cuba during

15.

i was Subject's Communding Officer in chewtorida National.

Gard, and sometimes saw bim socially while in Miani;

Although Cuban

Sand honow feels that he is an American.

Politically anti-

Comminist, he. Joined the National Guard (while, not under duress from

3104:

"Green Beret. He is polite and correct *n

kara voctal relationshipo

"I received a letter from bin, 7loune 1974p

9uhs got ais tapendios, aove to the Hashington, DC. area.

08124

---

## Page 2

14-00009

Soltated maid in finding an loon resty reberyeran te

rect tree to contact me at ai

andy method

Nor contactionintroduotton

Agency erployment.

Asubjeotr

NOWA

T

coautione

wasN

2388€

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

During the firstithree months. of 2972, Subject

trips. to Mexico.

we wh late anuary and February, Masfe

During his first tri

three

eda

Allegro and Mitchell Werbell Mitche

201-259910 former OSS/membe

Livin

ar Tic former Fresident of militi

Grations and presently assoclated

withade

ense Systems

porated, Powder Springs Georgia. i2n

Mexico City,

cisco Bravo Introdused the deputation, to bexico City

lice, Chiet'

- (Daniel GUTIERREZ SantosT and Miguel.

A Haro, "Chief of Political Police! (Actually Deput)

Director of the: Federal Security Service, DES, a political

and intelligence organization working' within the Secretariat

of Government.] During conversations Nazar admitted

Mexico's insurgency problemstand specifically named "Force

Seven" usferrer meationed that both Nazar and Gutierrez

Santos were angry with President Echeverria because of the

Mexican Government'= Inlicy of light criminal punishment

and short prison terms for bandits and/or guerrillas pains-

takingly captured by the police.

Bravo took the three to Cuernavaca, where he showed

them

arhouse

on the outskirts of the

city that the police

fused for unofficial detentions and heavy-handed interrogations:

Bravo complained that the local Catholic. Archbishop was

Kimplicated with the insurgents as well. as certain U.S. film

personalities who vacation in the Anerican community in

Cacrnavaca.

"Bravo also implicated a professor that as

kidnapped in Guerrero in late 1971. Bravo belfeved that

the professor (Jaime CASTREJON Diez, Rector of the University

of Guerrero] actually conspired with the insurgents for his

own kidnapping in urder to raise the ransom money for the

insurgent movement.

[The ranson was finally paid by President

Echeverria.]

Subject travelled again to Mexico in March 19,72

with

Berrardo

DE TORRES.

(Moxico 20384 December 1969

mentione chat LITEMPO-12, WH/MIAMI, received a phone call

friarione Bernardo De Torres regarding. a supposed missi

contraband arms dealer in Mexico City.). Nazar had invited

Masferrer to return to Mexico to go on a hunting party",

that is to participate in an actual counter Insurgency:

ope ration.

Masferrer and De Torres arrivod in Acapulco. and

They travelled by, police vehicle for

abouttan hour east' of Acapulco to an area near La, Treintas (NFI).

3

SECRET

0. 5880

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

lust before they arrived, they, heard on the police radio

that the Ary had just shot down" a Chip-engine Beachetast

When they arrived a search of the nreckage yielded a few

weapons A short firefight (about 1S ntnutes) ensued with

surgents chasteft two soldiers dead Masferrer said

he did pre noy the number of insurgent, casualties:

• One.

insurgert was captured along with his 45 caliber pistol:

9..:

The captured insurgent turned out to be a U.S.

citizen, white, male, approximately 27 years old.

(Masferrer

claimed he forgot the prisoner's nane, but that la had it in

-Miani.) •Bravo did not trust the Acapulco.or the Guerrero

state police and had his men take the prisoner to the

detention house outside of Cuernavaca.

witnessed the interrogation in which

Masferrer said he ve

the prisoner's head v

was repeatedly dunked in a rain barrel to make him talk.

The prisoner eventually revealed the following information

about "Force Seven": participating Americans were ex-rangeros

airborne, Marine or, Special Forces

types, many with Vietnam;

combat experience. They were armed with CAR-15 (M-16.) rifles

and: some had M-79 grenade launchers.

elsewhere in Latin America.

"Force

Other Americans operated

Seven"' provided training

toithe

insurgents and, whenever possible, supplied weapons.

in return, the

Americans

were paid in money and drugs, mostly

norijuana, but some cocaine.

Masferrer Said no heroin was

mentioted.

The prisoner said the insurgents used the money

from the drug snuggling to finance operations.

Bank robberies

had become increasingly difficult since the Army began posting

armed guards at area banks.

The prisoner said he had worked

urider Genaro VASQUEZ [Mexico's infamous bandi: turned guorrilla;

killed in a car accident last Februaryl: -The prisoner put

guerrilia strength at about; 1,000 men.

Masferrer, however,

said Bravo felt that figure to be high. The prisons also

mentioned that some of the insurgents had previously received

guerrilla tratning in North Korea:

Masferrer said that: later

upon. Nazat's orders

the American prisoner was shot and killed, The whole affair

wwas never reported in the: local press bocause, according to:

Kasforrer, such information, if revealed would damage the

area's tourist trade.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

E ONLY

BOUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SENTIAL

SECRET

Weetercon

382627. Mas

ĐAT

9494

WEREN'S

INTELS

FORWARDED,

C/WU/ 5/M

DOI

12.1X: 1977

1499

15 fune!

2 FRO

Dc56 =

DCS/OSS: 900 Ko

-So key

жH/3/V: 382622-11ds

Hold foota

SUELAST NU OPS

Basemen Tri.

THR OLD MAN WILD

CAVERACE TO GAT

OUTOR PAIDAN.

HAS ALWAYS BRAN

A surveins in Tit

CRIMINAL RAMANTS

1S

FICINTA

03 491

45r 201

29594

---

