# 104-10308-10248

## Page 1

104-10308-10248

99 €

jeled AMAPOLA.Vol.II

tot 75-752

ZAKNICK

23

E47-04470-84

11 March 1064

ENGRANDUM FOR: Chief of Station, IMT AVE

Chief, SAt/C.1

BUBJECT:

ARKNICK - AMAPOLA Intercepts)

Attached herolo are copies of mecioranda dated 18 February 1964,

26 February 1004, and 3 March 1664, which were provided this office by

the ODENVY Hendquartera liaison ofticer. The memoranda contain

AMAPCILA Intercept and are self-explanatory.

JOSEPH H. LANGUSCH

Attachnients: Herewith

As stated above

DDP/SAS/CI/PMiller:new

(9 March 1964)

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - JMWAVE, W/att

1 - FI/D/Reglatry

1 - C/F1/D/CSB

1 - C/F/D

1 - SAS/CI, w/att

w/att

99

T00 322000037

6/ml

---

## Page 2

13-00000

February 12, 1964

Attached plain tert spanish letters

were gent to Irma suree in cuba and

have been translated foo spartar to

subject sent above mentinues letters

although it appeare December 30, 1953,

letter emanated with idin.

"AMAPOLA"

290=72.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Miami, Dec. 25, 1963

Dear IRLA,

I hope that you and your family are voll when

this lottor reachos you.

A few days. ago, rocoived your letters in ke

Jersey, but since I loft for Miami with my friends on

Saturday, in order to stay there two weoks and to take orre

oi some business, d

not write until I got here.

I want to toll you that there was some difficulty

with the vitamines, because the company which was supposod

send them could not do so and I had to find another agency

to. do it because nobody wants that merchandise, due to tir

contiscation ol the packages but I was able to lind on

na d sent them to you and I hopo that you will notify m

as soon as you get then, because this 1s a new agency

for me.

I am glad that I am ablo to do that favor becauce

I think as much of that boy as I do myself.

Toll my uncle ELANCISCO that his nephew from i0=ie.

going to write to him and is going to send the IlliA lettor t:

your address.

I will tell you about KENNeDy's death in the otho

lotter when I am 1n low Jersey. All that is a

Stops are being taken foi your uncle to bo able ti

get out of Moxico and I think that it vill be possiblo to get

the visa soon, and to have him here.

I am not saying anything to you about Miami

because I do not want to draw any conclusions yot:'

Well, IllA, write to me at my addross in Rev Jerse

as usual. Regards to the phole fantly.

Your brother in Christ,

(sign" with initlals that look likr J.(

130F

---

## Page 4

13-000Q

DOMP IRA!

Times el all, let m inh you, muer dran deuchtar

and the othr man of your fait the brut el tonith a

Lood. May ded tole mom and melte you mo that you any mr

Jew hages rentined.

AS IN MY N14917

see you are n ser.

I WE TANY 190 BANG ChAT I-A

te gas and

that you veull be nie to so to Caramay t° om

The l

nothies mit thes, tui you an out rured that they ur

mut thre on than a A prun hire me in rong in

yu the rover al plation up the a ladnes for ma sed yo

I wa coing to tale

for to meleine sten.

That milder.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Ramy 160908.10

141 In Line Mit Hunt the

Write m mos, an I hope that yuer pat toward

has daled ult a bit with thie cold conthir.

DEAR

to your creedsheD

---

