# 104-10221-10000

## Page 1

104-10221-10000

MATERIAL LVISED AI CIA HCADQUARTINS 158

MOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE OR ASSASSINATIONS STAFF SESHERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE:

Mi/-

210134

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROON:

THIRS AGENCY DUCUMENT

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME.)

SIGNATURE OF REVISWING OFFICIAI

HOT TOURNED DY MSCA.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY DE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

201

---

## Page 2

4,1P2

adaechani do hesifdoleu da, dsud0lt.

eine dtt r dote lone ahesdedsa

LlkuiMand

a.eLM.iNd.

39-2--1

DAlk 27/07176

denidas

widta

CS Cipy

auvlaoe chalt

LUTIO

20l-u0xsice

i dldne

diti di' +-9006109

iidl1e zuè-nseee

1nbad1c

.Abdilitiai

M.ANhialL

abainàui NEb

AEAL-VANAERS TRACCE

LLrAkv

¡ygàl

isciitlo

dA iNMANIC

towwi o.lt

•..r..

'"•"

xcabentedeörd 2

widt :

rii.

ALubnG GSFEriLLA

0 WUNGEEN1E

idéaiodi rdredi

tor tuo B80S

2 14

matiinnafoinidi

LOSUMENT

AESTNALI

Trri.:

•AsSlAALILs

iNdY

• distRAilio

ali iali,d

Nitenenitli

MiStinidin

INUEAUDA

JiNS

FLOSAOLY GRGNO NLTLSZitO

i ins inde inti - L-- 1

reeo ana alunco véumorad areacp-da ar-éiociaaede ono dee o.u ari,aaaeo

Wailts:

-31 5

Irtü

Eelafendt s

FALü

MAY AU.

NaS

OPCA PRICE TO:1YE2IACOITLORAL AUSTRACIS

tALb

AVALLNNLE AAUM PIE MARUAL AGSTRALS GALLCTLUNO

-iNDO AALMAN

_ATNeTA dtS NuGmEd FuR Nud

icälad cury

MEAEMARDO GAuLE DUdeEE ANi KdCURLED

silici duir iviio

z2.

. AMPLEA CL .EY 011951

---

## Page 3

C-WIN-+1-1-5-1-7-1-1-1

When

F1lled

1n

SECRES

24

i've

(dice)

Revlew of 201 File on U.S: Cleizen

In

accordance

slave

with the DDo'a notice.

reviewed

of 9 December 1974,

6201

number

the 201 file on LUiSSe CAL AL

Indicated below),

and have. deteroined that

moat

accurately

be

categorized do Indicated belowen

should be closed.

/its

witting collaboracor.

01 Code Al.

potentlal wieting collaborator: date opened

OI Code N2:

former vicing collaborator (relattonship cerminated).

Code

potental.wleting collaborator never contacted (securley

reasons, derogatory laformation).

O1 code A4.

counterintelligence

case

intelligence

of gecurity

11.0..

lavolving a foreign

vi code 15.

all othera:

or code

A6.

Signed

2 mor t

(trio)

This assigamene of category has been entered luto stal.

8462,

Signed

(iniclala)

191.

This document

18

permanent

PHEr

(iate)

of

this file.

When Filled In

C-O-V-F=I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

:201-246534

E2

IMPDET

CL BY 054929

---

## Page 4

SECRET.

inrori

dent la)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DDENTIFICATIOM

DATE

DOC:

BUBJECT

SOURCE INFORMATION

SOURCE CATATONY

EPALUATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (A/PO

Dideon.

Ti apolleadio)

WASSERMAN: JACK

201-240834

SEX

M. 0087

CIT ?

OCC 7

ASSOCIATE OF TAMANIC.

201-055006

NKAA-04856

23 AUG 71

R 7109210658:

IndIcate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. ' In Which Tile

Form Id To Be Filed.

BUDILET OF ADI (LAN.

201-=

247$34.

90aM 867

SECRET

---

## Page 5

FDI DOCUMENT

DATE:

20. May 1970

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

SUBJECT: MIKHAIL IVANOVICH MERZLYAKOV

BORIS ALEKSANDROVICH FEDOROV

FBI FILE : None Given

---

## Page 6

DISPATCH

Cases os station

SECRET

Chlos, NE

Addissound icadquarters-Traces

TODIE ROOM

1041607218

A contibutes rover of Subjectin licadquartors 201 fla

has Given us to races of ono or tro old contacts who may bo

of possiblo Intoroat.

Additionally, the unmes of coveral

dew costrets havo roccotly cogs up. loadquartore and INIRGO

traces aro forbarded under acparate cover for your information

and filea only:

Edward &. COCUtL

Attachment: 0/S/C

Distibution:

3 - COs,

Holen B. BRODGENE

MOSCATOS SIGBOS AND bUNKTR

N5A0-495

CUASSORLAREN

SECRET

201240834

10 August ladleigsa

HOS ME NUMBER

201-55008

ORIGINATING

("6808

COORDWATING

1

1

1

201-55006/

NEGTI/G

NEGTI/G/CI

Ceoss file

201-232863

201-836761

201-836826

201-833439

201 - 210831 /

tu:

CAR: 19.5001

SB/O/NE

C1/OPS/NE

C1/516

DAil

do draft)

(in denit)

(In deals)

vals

CHASING

chines monitunt

AC/NEUTA/li

53

---

## Page 7

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

HECKET

W/C Attach Po: NEAU-005

Acrording to EGAA-33421 029 AUn..

50) no one ju

MaLuariul had ever board of mattinopoLes before 1918.

reportedly man introduced to kostan LAtElOPOULOS for

According to LEAH: 7030

1066), TIUMlr/20 slated tons dochor way back

do tha 1050'8 DIUITMEOPOULUS wau conaldered an Amorienn

asint and that ho had cood accent to Grock military infor

via Leon MAkKAs went thut tine woe "Chiöf 'of Stnif

Greck Navy" and through whose offices ho bad managcu

necess to the Grock Pentagon.

The follewing

are pertinent Headquarters tracco on MAKKAS and ZA BIROPOULOS:

A. MAKKAS, LoUD (201-232863)

Burn 1892, in Athens, Greeco, tho son of Dimitrius;

studied law at the Univorgitlos of Athens and Paris;

1914-22 - Journalisti in Parls; 1922-28 - Diredtor of

tho Press Burcau of the Greok Embassy in Paris; entered

politics in the August 1928 clections under the Liberal

Party banner and electod Doputy for Athens;

"Uuder"

Sccretary of the Navy (Pinstiras cabinet) 15 Aprii-18 Mug 1950,

and in 1952 a mentor of the Grock delcration to the UN

Gencral Assembly,.

111th scuston,. New York.

He rendinod

1n Grook politice upuuntll at least 1965.

A report from the 8th Service Command, ASE, Dallas,

dated 17 Apr 45, contained the Inforuation that

when the Germans left Cophalonia,

the ELAS forces took

over police, customs,

and oll noministrativo dutied of

tho Island.

The Gicck Governont of Athens sent a

cornission headed by inu Makas to cophalonia and Corfu

to sot up an adanistration, which ho did but "did not

scen tu. Interfere or havo any difficulty with the ELIS

mentioned any or my not be identicad

with Leon MAKKAS.

BAKKAs throughout his career has espoused

ot inproving Greck-Soviet and Greck-Bloc (particularly

and Yugoslav) reintions.

Eleftherla carried

an arttede on 22 Jung 1956,

In which MAkins strongly

urged, among otter

thames, the betterment of reintions

with the Soviet Union and roderred ironically to the.

Governnent's

"servile attitude" towards the Restorn

allies in tbia connection.

In mid-day 1050 (2GA-5371, 25 May 57), a Provistoonl

Committee Against Thornd nuclear Tests and Atonic Warfare

was turned tin Athing under Leon MAkkAs as president.

formor LA officials, Iraklis PAPACURISTOU and his wife

Eurydie SPXROMILIOU (the Inter witha record of pro

Cosmunist activities up to the end of 1955), played pro-

minent roles in this orunnizatiou; at least five of the

stxty personalitles who slined the initial appeal of the

WAKKAS organizution wore Conmunists of pro-Conmunists:

at leaut 10 other personu who signed the appeal bud a

record of actlvity. in onc or moro of the Greek Communist

front organizations: Unky has been a acmber of humerous

orinuizations ouch ad tho bPC Cougress, Stückhola,

10-23 July 1958; tle Sponsoring Committeo, Congrong for

Disarmment aud International Cooperation, Stockbolu,

July 1058 in which orcaniention he ang closely diso

clatod with Stamatios LERKOURIS); the Governing Council

of the Greek Peace Coraliteo,, January 1959, and othere.

MAKKAS vent to Buchnrcot in Sentenber 1050 at the

invention up "arR Untional Comnittee for ebe Defouso uf

---

## Page 8

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

se Altach to:

NEAN: 090

He intended thie third Basi test Round Tible

Contorence. at boadon

In February 1060, Bhich vas dell

alie; and communise du tone.

In Janunry 1008, MAThiS Proposed &4 Rumandan

Ambaran dur Ion

DRINCEANU Chal a balken caterence, of

persontitle's

represent it uranisations along diro

Andan Couference proutype be forked. Liais

sussestod

Belerade as a conferenes site but DISCENU dianerced

on the bite location and

sustrated Bucharest.

MAKKAS

vlulted Belgrade to discuss

the above situation with

NiCha PAVITCUSVITCH.

ATUE 0100, 21 Jan 58, roported that & usually

scllablo source close to God cireles stated. that "it

wun coldcut that boon MANAlS had Gone corplotely over

lu tlic Commie side ond uns now participating in the

publication of the Connie tront magaztue Fublie Celndon"

sine that Thcodore VOKAS,

the tormer director, wus a

long-tiảo Communist:

the

Public Opinion had run a poll on

misulle site question,

coming

up with tho

absurd

conclusion

that 70 per cont of the Grecis more opposed

to tho wissiles."

frin

CS 3/314,263, 14 Fob is,

subicot, "redtist Plans

Future Action

In Grocce, " reported that EDA Depuly

1110m ILIOU bet with forner Alnister of coinerce Leon

MAKAS on 30 Deeculer (1997) and discussed the leftist

plane for future acttou in Grocco;

KAka's agreed tully

that EDA should fullce in the tuture a polley

of co

clotence with

othor partico, independence in foroign

policy; rcalatance to NATO atonic

and missile bases

for

Grcece; acmocratte and social justice, eic.

MAKKAS

also pronised full cooperation in any nes pular front.

In December 1903, MAkKAS coportedly was ippoluted

Wreck Anbabrador to Deigrade.

After his appolndsent was

mentioned in the press, TODIUd reported that Bakkis

had called

the sovlets about his appalascent.

TIlPLANk

told Chief

of Station,

tuat he thought

tho cally fore very suspicious md had ssiod Mindster

of Forolen Affairs Soloklit

VENIZALOS Dot to appoint

MAKKAS to Bolgrade.

VENILILOS reportedly told TIPLAYS

that althobil

"SAKKAS was d stupid and ridiculous mn,

ho was hardly a soviet upy." VENizards reportedly

wished to improve rolations botwech Greece and Yugoslavia

with the appointment. or MARRAS.

(Headquarters files do

not reflect that unwins! appolatrent crer becano effective.)

In June 1965, it uns reported (PANT 8814, 25 Junc, 65)

that

"loft lennior" NAkkas had revlaced soiro PeCCASCOSHETATUS

(conisclor of the Greck Bibassy, Parts, for Prese Affairs

foi nord than tenty ycars). Mix's roportedly protented.

his predececoor's foflure to establish contact with

tbo

Comsiniot papor L'luchnite.

Tu March 1965,

it was

reported that MAKKAS, Grock

Porcanent Reprecontative

to

tha

Councis of turope,

had

been cont

ou a niocion

in Parlo accordios Po Goorge

PAPAtoRIOUs tootructione obicosibly to reprosont Greaco

in tho Council o1 Europo but to netually cbtato loforma-

Pon regardlor RARIUNILIS' coveceots, piros, vleos, ofc.

micad reporto reportedly had beca receited regularly by

PAPANDNIOU through accrot nud nou-diplonale chanuols

$30

---

## Page 9

COPTINUATONOF

DISTANCH

& P. CHIFT

S/E Metach 80: NK10-405

ESSCO KNINDANLIS" doparture frun crocco in late 1963.

10 should bo: Doled that BAkkAd hns heen a close

personal feichd of Course

PAPAIDI:OU ince befurel tho

vccupation lears of Urcece.

B. LAFEIROPOOLOS, Konstantine (201-836762)

vorn 1908₽

Kolnvryta,

Achula, Orceco

Son of Gorge and Karla

Journalist

PGA-4728, (1 Mar 50) which discusseu tbe "Acorganl

antlon of Sovlet Iotelligence Network In Greece" states

tint Information on Greece hao from the soviet point uf

view in rencral bech accurate becauso many journalists

have actively collaburated with the soylet service.

Bctoro tho outinwing of the ko, a list of trusted your

mallute scro sclceted for information purposes by the

Sovietu-onco more on the dirders of Loonid VLICANSKY

(former TASS representative in Athena), Tho nme of

constantine RAFINOPOULds and Included in the list of

jouruallots in whoa the inylot were particularly 1o-

torcuted.

CGA-2390, (2 Aug 51) which contuined Informallon

Mats of journalicta allegedly prepared for

the soviet Intolligence cervico liuts zAcIROPOULOS"

mnno in a scccion designared "Communist and FAl Jourin

liata in Atheno" and deccribed him as follows: "He

1ụ cur man but lo not organized. Ho is a Journalist

sor kathinorini and lu unctul to un In that post. Ho

1a a croation (oic - protogo?) ot Contas VIDALIS. Years

and he sympathized with Trotskyiom.

He ia a valuable

but in opporiunint.

Nevortheless, he is

credatonally nscul to u3."

LAFEIROPOULOS has bren i journalist and Director

of Political Atatre for Yatilneini

10u0'e, in well no a writer for daalo dous for deveral

years In the 1950'g.

According to LKA-2414, (21 Aug 62).

carcinopoucos was cultor ot Rathimerial.

I a monor report concernsus DIMITRAKOPOULeS! COn-

In luc United Stntrs during Win Junc-July 1953 visit,

1E 1ü noted DILITRAKOPOULOS T33

in telephonie contact oith

(tlien .Counsclor of

the Greck Subassy) at

his Hashinston, D.C. (Chevy Chase, 10.) home address.

LAIBROS, Dinitrios (201-835826)

Born 7 Lnrch 1903, Alcrandria, Egypt

of Nicholas

lorner privute sccretary to Prime Minister Fleftborlos

VENIZELOS; peober of Greek Foreign Ministry since 1926/

1949-1052 Diputy delegate, Ul Gencrol Asserbly, fifth

New Yorks

ACCOrdiON tO an INGOLD blugrapDiC

sunnary duted is soptester 1019, LAUDROs le reported by

nucó Grocki du be on actual of putoutial sollus travaler.

Tho writor

of tha report, boscyor, statos that it de

diffIcult to accceo the

of this charge although

It und boon mado by porsons sho sero not norcally gluen

tu. making ostrontos partload Judgmenta.

Iln states. furtber

that the baola for toio charge pay bo bAllros personal

---

## Page 10

CONTINNAMIONOF

DISPAICH

/ Meach: NKAl-805

triendlity with several persong of known leftlut aconume

Accordior do EkAb4006 (Attnchment C). Rade SPAST,.

furoslay Commerclal Attacho In 1950-60, wan lo Aroguent

colice with Dialedog brantos, desersbod as "Connercial

leprenchtnttvr."

This cocucent also utated that TRost

wuss cultivating several Creek A Lse.

saccorutng

NEHA-788, 23 CUE 30, BOd EKAA-1096 LAtE. 27 DILTELA-

KOLOULOS and TROST bad Irequent contacts).

3.

Accordins to ERAA-1480L (1 Oct CG), Senator Vance

HARTKY,

accoopanied by his clouc friends, Mr. and Mra. Pllot

JANLANY, volted Grocco In Sepicaber 1966, and wore elocu

and dince by DIMITrikoPoULos and introduced to many high-level

Greok and other

forciga governcant officials as hiu "old and

dear Artende.

The Congressional Record, dated 22 Mrch 1968, coutalos

two fteas concoroing interviews by DIMITIAKOYOULOS ViCh HASTKE

NOU JANENAY,

forsation. respectlvely: (coopy le attached for your

JANGHAY, EllOt (201-833153)

The dollooing backeround summy, datod August 1052,

EllOt DANTAY Bag horn in Newylork State on

January lo 1913. Ild duther, Meyci JACOLSTEIM was boru

1n Russin but tho natiorality of hts nother is unkocan.

Ca Kovembor 9, 1931, Wbilo attending Cornell University,

Jenny married Corol MinDorOOs, an Anerican citizen.

Miter graduatior frou Coroell in 1932, JANAWAY 4oe his

wife travoied to ingland for the purpose of pursuing

their sendles at the London school of Econozica:

Accordins to a reliable fureign sourco, JAETiT

and big vile

left the volted kingdon on Auguut 30, 1933,

travelcd to the sovict Ubion." This trip at reportedly

ofluenced by sergel DINAUOY or the kussian Unlon of

Borolutionary loiters.

Polor to enling thia triy,

JArRAY Indicated that he was not n nember of the Connu

adal Party bue intenued to become one upon liu return

1u. the Untled State:s..

Durink the period of tire SANLYAY

siss in che sortet Unied, little is known of his' actil

tico, according to the collable coreden source,

thas the fact that he san employod as a typist and re-

preter for tho moscow

"Dally News,

While 1D tho Buriat

JANEWAY and his alac acparated.

Sho votalcod a

vosition as Moscow corressondent

for the learut neou

Tapers aud lie returnco

to the United bingdon for the

ayced purpose of continuing hiu studies at the London

Bhool of Econubica, Noyceber 24, 103U. JAIlAY did

not resune bla studies in London, however, but icit

fur matata in january l03a stiere lio acanined for iro

vecris.

He allegedly icturned to tho United Klogdon

accorpaniod by berta HouLERING, nu Austrian Consulot.

According to tho reliable forodgu courco, JArlY

juined the Communiut Parly. of Great Eritaln In Noyebber 1932

ind mail a nember of the Southunstern bul Diatrict.

1: alleged lo have earned a bad reputation vies Britiab

ConcunioLi

and on lebruary 21, 1931, the London

"Ladly

worker announced thn expulaion from tho Communias Party

uP J. JANEMAY on thio recubdo of political unroliabllisy.

This ludlvidual lu boltered by the rollablo forotga dourco

lion en.

HECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

CONTINUATIONOF

DISPAICH

SECRET

i8/C Attach 80:

NKAN-A05

les lie

elical with Eliot JANElAY.

JA'EWAY leit the

Uis Unlied Satre on tobruary Ea, 1931,

boom penching this country repretedly informed te

Inoricon Conniet Tarly that

he Ind been diuciplined.

the Cunmunlet Forty of Great Uritoln.

Ellot JANEYAY bas at uno time ausoclaied sith the

Interintioual Stallotical Eurozu,

York City,

and with Sonalcton,

Dudley and yocates.

270 Prondway, licy Fork Clly. He has at vardous tiaos

contribuled

articles to the following publicutions:

• Wasla" ragazine, tho "New

York Times.

Surday Angazine Section,

"forlund! magazine,

"Doutrches Volkaccho," and the

nanacinin luni he vat Appuclate Editor

Federated

Ai of April 1902.

JAilYAY was Idontiflod as

a consulting economict and busluess trends consultant

fur "Newsweek" magazine.

A news item appearing du the June 10,

1938,

Issue

eif the

"New

York Tines" indicated that Eliot JANEWAY

sis a corpoator with Ur. lairy i. Laldler,

State

Chatreon of the Doctallst Party of the Stato of New

Yorks

in

the openiny, session of the annual conforence

of the League for Industrial leuceracy.

This con-

10r6:nCe 478

hold at the Villy House,

the Buintr camp

Internat lonal Ladley Garnent

Workers Undon

at

Foreut Park,

Pennsylvania, on June 9, 1938.

(HOTT:

Leadquartory atles contain the following

indornation concerntos an individual tho iu possible

suritical vith berto lolatlid, mentioned in abovo

LiticO surnary:

A reliablo source knowledgeable of Coninteru acti

¿rope during the 1030's advised that one

TARNAY, bolieved lu be an allas ustid by one

cartha BURGESS, Bus knoun to Conintera officiale In

England and Austria as Barbara ARCHER; Bertha TAMiAY

certha HOLLERING.

TARGAY was recosseuded by Comin-

In Londoo In 1934-1935 for courter duties:

she had previously worked fur the Couintero in Austito,

names. Bertha TAIVAY and Bertha HOLLERING.

source in not knogledgeable uf TARNAY's present connec

tions or activities:

An LAGOLD viGa

mock chited 3l Cecember 1064, con-

salred the dolluiny blorrapule inforcation oo Berta

T. BURGESS:

Dorn 28 July 1801, Viennn, Austria; sarital gaus

sevarated, citizennhig Dritich; address-4l Fellows Buad,

London: MY 3; emplogneut-rctlrcd.)

AM LNERGO Fopurt (dated Il. Oct 54) coatains

the

inforcation that. the Yuccalnv Dolegatico In New York

wão the recipiont of correspóndcuco. dated

20 July 1051 from Eliot JALAY, 270 Park Avenue, New

York city.

Another LANCO report containg a referonco

1o ono LArgarot SAUDIAY thu

nade out a cocci, dated

11 Deceabor 1053, go Exotorol Koutu MINDURIC Ola

LOSCarO HANDUKIC (201-3060), sho Eng kooD to bo in

frequcrit contoct uitli Yugoslay Coverocont officiale

in Hep York Clay. (sco cunary un Jack VASSaRlAY

for further mention of MAiDUkIC.)

traLOU On BaTHOrOS JAILUAY DOSO LEgGEITO POU LIERGO

---

## Page 12

CONTINUATION OP

DISPAILA.

SECRET

S/C ALtabh to: NKAT-403

ind no antonal Tofurent don anded might tle in durgarct

MANLWAY

with

aliot and Carol JAdEWAY.

anotHer LNERGO depose (antad 21 Nov. 66) coceroing

(201-2200), who, according to

librio, han beca consideird by rary to have boen a Boviet

uncut for many gears, Carol ONlEin mine appeari

secliun cuttled "Actlultien and Acrclaten (o? YISCHER)

attor the German-Soylot, Pact, August 1939," as dollous:

An LNERGO sourco of unknown roliability turdished

infornition in 1942 which indicated that MISCHER das in

contnct with Curol JANEYAY, 124 Last 19th Stroet, New

York City, do Deceaber 1941,

Anotlier LNERGO source of Loknown rollabllity ad

vised ou y October 1952 that Carol SALVAY hold scuber

chip in tho Comunist Political Association 16 1054,

and was a noober of the Sacco-Venzetti Club.

The above Informant statod that Carol JANEWAY

ittended

schools in Soviet Ruusin during the 1930°g

when the gluited that country (althout sourco did not

holdeve the schools were directly connected with the

Communist Party), and that she had Conunlut Ilterature.

in her apartment.

According to tho above inenco report, riscin re

called having met Carol JANFVAY and ber nothor In Russia

during the 1030's. Uc said the was au anatour painter

1. WASSERLAN, Jaci (201-210331) :

903 Harner Bulldina, Machington, D. C.

Inwyer fOr Mobert GRINDENG CoapaDy (DIMITRAKOPOULOS'

altered current employer),

who represented DIMITiAkUPOUlAS

in tiling bis oth Proiercuce Petrico to I&NS.

LNERGO reports

dcocribe WASSERiA an a controvoralal type,

awn no a fuccesstuly cappule attorney, who bas beon legal

counsel for many laus cascs and Internal security cases (which

perrala nalaly to persuns connected with bubveralve groups,

Soviet cover organizattong and persons with Soviet altallationa.)

An iNERCO seport doted 20 August 1954, Indienton that

WASSIAn hod made out a check in the

anount of $125.00 to

mie ivetovni MANDUKIC (201-30600•

MANDUKIC, Of YURUSLAY

extraction, has negotint lie sith

thc Yugoslav Covernsont re

garding the coodtructiod of & rayon mill in Yugoslavia,

wap 1u frequcht contact with lude trost,

Concircinl. Attacbe

at the Yugoulny Consulate lu Now Yuck Clay in 1951.

Svetovar MANDUKIC and hia ulfe Kossara MANDUKIC (neo

MILOKOVIC) Lave

beeu

vartouily

regoried prirarily by sources

1a Mirises

as collaborators of tho coreana duriog forld BA3 JI,

agonte of Ozin (the Yunoniay Intclligence and Jocurity Servica)

and the queccator intollionco arcanization bob,

and possible

Bovlotguernts or dufonmantu.

MATURICe 1810,

scrover, ladd

catco that to doforcation may lova ortoluated dron too

Jugoney wourcon which vere conatocred unreltable. ond pre

judiced.

AN ENERGO report,

nonevor, datod 29 July 1050,

roporecaly du contact oilh

an alleged Yugoolar

sobolilacoco agcne du Ner Yurb Clay,

anu dcacribod der du a peroca of looke

corAlu: Arolbor

IMERco unscoe utatra that che anili ho she dipo of indtoldial

ma sould carry. out nu laceblicence ancieneous der. a vacalag

330

---

## Page 13

14-00000

CONTPIIATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

S/C Attach to: NIAN-495

Govornment visiclal if reyucated to undortake such an ascico-

Linchment:

congrenitonol Record, 22 March 1968 h

---

## Page 14

DISPATCH

Chief of Sention,

Perso acce

DECRET

so rare use dies

Chlor, liE

LIlAn DINITRAROPOULUS - Additional Background Inforention

nErS:

B: NRAN-290

NRAA-997

ACTION: FYi & Stution Tracce

In attenpting to clarily the tany discrepancles,

constatent reports,and nilegations, In Subject's background

" thorough revtew of his file has caused us to look more closely

at some of his pant close associates. Additionally, sone new

panes have come up.

The following, la a resume of recently run

traccs on-o fe of his old contacts as vell as tho new once:

It 10 Intoresting to note that some of those contacts tend to

the Bubject in oven more closely with the Yugoslav and/or

Soviet liS. Ho would appreciate current Station traces on

all contacto mentioned below.

2. Forly Minitory and Old Contacte

PGAA-3593, 6 Februnry 1951 (a copy of which 19

in strtion files).

might br considered the basic documcot

witch the stories ore bused of Subjecte

"heroic esco

paden" daring the occupation of Grecce by tho Cermia.

Jog (1.0, Goren bullets, Corminiet bullete, Russian

One story lo particular concerned his alleged

Attachrents:

CongressionnI Record, 22 Var 68

1: Homo for Rocord, dated 21 June 58

Distribution:

2 - COs,

CUSSINGDE DRO ARETE

SEE PAGE 18

207-055006-

NFCTI/G. Chruno

NIGTI/G/CI Chrono.

201-83-1519

201-117328

208-226408

201-068028

201-232463

201-8308138

201-300212

201-185637

201-00121

208-7035991

201-N:3H:4

C0d-hJ315045

SECRET

NIGTI/G/C1

10910: ":

841-340831

16911

11 Julz 1968

202-055008

DONATING

/ka

1"680%

103801941190

SB/O/NE:

CJ/OPS/RE

C1/S1G

Mariain

ENGELS

18802245

---

## Page 15

GOSOAICIA

anotarlin

disne de Creden

8106:

probati

13 89

10o-g106018

nor ree or

10N 610:11:0

dormin

with

lirckru

r.Ouldd

"De da sg

FCpu21b14

malete

•121

TelarA.

pureletrall

$ 88

Greece.

16 Mas

lirch

ne"

I n

nutec

subnect

pround- 11 yearg or

1me. 11

tho

mave

Iscen

(1028) whlch lie now

dote of birth

01n1m

1918, 1910, anich be

currcet, rether thou 1916,

has

vartourly

vera un official. travel

docunents nud his mariluno liccuse application (1942): 1ruu

CICH 1950- 19600)

The tilloing ere tores crucerolog several

inclutunals aentlured 1n 101A-3690 (6 leb St) sho ucre

Involuco in due iny or anotler in the ceremony held nt

the Coett Hotel,

sn hay 1050, at which dubject

reportedly sas marded the "Hlghest Decointion ot the

BlItory Cro66 al the ipcitle Lvangeliot Aork," ser hio

acelulty in the Greek relatance novement during and

the German uccupatlen.

1), CHiSCOnes 11, (201-031590) Grees Grihudes

Patriarch of Alexandria

(fron at least the carly

1910's untl! late 1050's).

There ne auncrous old romrts (osinly orisim-

ting with State Decarteent) which descrtbe CHRISTOrONes

as haying been noted for ble pro-Connunint and pro-

Sopiet tendencles

The thebe throughout ming of these

reporis is lis cioneness to the Mescon-dontrated

Russion church in Mexandria (Phtrlarch Mezts),

Me numerous talpu to Loscon,

hit frequent contact

with suveto lu Mexandria, his altered ald to

Greek Comounlats in heypt, and the luct that he

surrounded ligsolf sith (Grock) Cormunists; such as.

Emmanuel (Ninoly) GxSTCS aho Is described as

CIUUSTOPORO

"considential okent."

After cooplaints

nado to antororois by the British Consul Generul

In Alexandria (1048/40) about the employneut 6f

GNITOS, CHRISTO-OROS proolsed that UNErtos reuld

be dismisscu; It was lates: arcued that GNEFTOS

maled in the roploy cf the Patriorch.

CulISTorcRoS

raportouly vas un actlve sumporter of erosis.

custos ones resurtedly arrived in atiens on

24 Februnty 1960 from Alesandria to confer pith the

irchblahop.uf athersion ceclosinsticat ratters:

nitle thoro, be sus niso aiven bonors by mililury

unlte."

0. aay have been on this plait that plans

nade jos hin to osidclate at the corcoong for

DIMITRAXUTOULOS .)

CUMISTOFOROS roturned to Alexandria

on. 11.

March 1050.

2) ortos, Enmanuel (Manoly)

Reportadly (DOS Maich 1950),

an alleged Consuolst

shü lo confidentint mont fur CHHISTOjUrOs, Greck 0r

chodos Fuertorch os aberndela, and hend f ebe loseri

Labor Laptogeone Ordice, uno sont lo Acheon (Jabuary 1950%

{P)

els sinh General Caiyus. esprese rightlat

The Moltled Crial General In Alrranorte

"a bounder

330

---

## Page 16

14-00000

CONTINDALI ON

MISCATIO

I ECk ET

riddlein:.

F.1e:1988

1.1d1e°

1:0100010

111161-1"

" 19006916::

...dia!"

Do balile

I ps

110 tam6

Pee Our 00)e chere do mention

creilal

"LiversLy

di t

none three

Nobode:

LIKISTONCHOS SISO

amried tor herule deos

He unto c.

concle, director us Toycazro:

lee-fingers

cented the coicare

mantico

A114L

8. 4.

31.16a

• 611

.. e08019116:

coplesace

J. 8°1.171

the

conner..ed

0.deg.1:.

1g1091

(ve

: 1010.91088

221..i000l.

11%

1118:

SMART

15)

iternnen

•i to Have A2116012!

101:6 " sita

He stated

that bia 1

those of a 50c111

Dinocrat :

hume and i

PAPAGCONGI

Communiet

BIRDINAS,

polftical

apyrlaug

mendent in

ccurd with

his claposition.

Yes LeVeI

H18:.71

•ou

the

Athina

prui

Illas

ditor; Joho

De tori.

HU

CAlente

reporter

TAVIOK

In Atheis;

ind

THERLOROU.

n1 inno

Athinalil coricer

108

beler)

tr

EK/-1175

11-199907),

ser

(22 June co),

Est'lts lan.

0d Secratery

41

the

h485

1006) had

11rc.11:

1: €

Jucd contret

1 id

the

normal

course al. his diplomatle social lite.

those

LOT ANCISIVE CULTIVATION

PRAD-U9UT1 Caon GT) reported that the THiCkIsH!

UnLatOra! Lp of taC phonG Oi LIAR BREDIRAS hou

been obscentioucu and, in place of 1t, i top wig

made on

ten phoneus Athmust publicber loomis

PAPAGECRCICT.

(The scaron dor the phone

Rap covernre

on either individual is

not given.

one inu PAVAGEORGloU, publinher of 10s lagazine:

Alexondrao heroue 200, Alliens (ger KKAA-D638, 20 Apr 04)

reportedly cas in frequent contact sith TRANAL/2

(201-727976))

Cle crunot be detersined di this indi-

vidnot

Iu Identicad sith loanals PAPAGEORGIOU, publisher

uf Athloatkl.)

ERNA-12511 (17 Ang 65) reported the Involvereut

In the

ferred decucent) corpopotamos Incident 11

PAPACTORGIOU,

DIMITRAROPOULOS, ANUTCRO PALADHEDO! *e A

ATHENS 1518(1 FOR ET TOPOTICO ThrE PARAGLORGIOU:

"'sion tea

---

## Page 17

CONGRANNON OT

HISPANCI

SUCHAT

118:1800:0

tir

MORE HIMARCU

mind stale da

"Alie"

iner

4: 4

the. 1188:

remorablin di referees

"il

treans pull-faerlet.

adulary du Fresident dennedy:

Mr Colone appanene to

In luchee od Auerton sented goroled In

S.) UNEVINS, ELINS (201-226595)

Son

od Antliony and Vastliki, bore 1903, 1n

Thourin, Kalumn!

Journallet mid Longer

Accuruling du 5GA-2341, 12 July 1954 (Subject:

Communtail

no loftist Jourentiats, Subyect woe

Under M! later is the

tress under the detrais reiine;

during the

occupation

WIS 1111

End audicer and suj

the

Varklea

Nercencnt, sas political

reportre for Metter blinda

for soce tine and

srote vardous

urticles

the Sucialist newspaper

Eloither.

0:.2 4111110

1947, he aas scut to Trague

there other nattonalist gournallats to repre-

sent Grcece it

the

CONgreSS Of

journalists.

In

1900

couldade tor Fartlacent ot

the

Aboral larty nuc

1951-1052 O1 LENS (Nattonal

Vie 10011

the Center). The ucwspiper

Aücust 1952 published a

occorandin blined

by

Subject regardlar the colcaso

of Eroanuel G16708 fron

prison, chich was acut to

the Price Minister,

the Minister os dustice, ind

the Frentdent is the lovies Court.

The vcwspaper

1L30m1

on 25 Sopteaber: 1952 published a

lotter

tron

Subject to the reoner (Fauhallenic Volon

Familled of

Pullatent Axiles) about scading precis

to prisoners.

isnt on 18 Necrober 1932 published

i letter tros the

FEUDED 10 Subject ln ansper to

tl:0

setter he rene about parceis ter prisonira

thongton hin let 10:

Ayal on 7 Deceaber 1952

The Provistoral Connlitoe

Ior.

Proce rollonera in Giceco to the Icaco Congress

Vienna, olgned. by Subject.

•In June 1966, BREDINAS spoke at the leace

conross In Heleink!,

Flulnnd; 195%

-visited ra

tol11te countrles and vote lenntas serleg of pro-

Communtat noticles which appeared lu Athluatkl;

moscared many tines as defcuse witaess for Conimu-

nists on trinl; frequent entler at the sovlet F

olected to Tarliament la May 1050 ricetlona

en the Lul blate; reportedly loyal

ATIE 6565 (23 Jan 57) reported chot actlon was

belar talon. uy the Greek Geveronens to

deprive

DreDIAs. of rartiancutory domundly and 8o try blm

tUF COntACtE WItH TRIANTAYLLOU OI BRO SES.

BREDIAAS

contesied in the contacts but cloteed he una not

aware of the idcutity of TRIANTArILLOU.

FKA-137 (20 Any 50) and EKA-515 (13 MuG 59) 8'e:

Cremiadce

of the tollus-travelling lemocratic Inloi (os) larty:

Subjeet repurtculy hoose second secregary us the

" %.

Suvlot Entany, Athens, Ivan SaTGaCY (ired 1959),

and soviet Ambasiador Mikhall Grigorgooded SErGEYEV;

te a prominone cellua-draveler alo-bao bad direct

SECRET

---

## Page 18

CONMINUAIONOF

DISPARC

conneed lome with

16 teneraly conducred to be a lord cure

0).

French clelach, born 1921 In Harseillen, France;

1043 - Bordico a Grock Monu (name unknowo.

Accordue to SGAA-10519 (13 July 55) Securee:

GNATEAD. DE LA BUTT leo leftlat French Journnilet

and foraer represcntulive (1954) in Atliens ot

Krausegor and a contributor to Stingkou Kygyx,

lifestro,

Aditokt; reportedly an ngcnt

o1

tlie

Irchen.

lutell

at the Frenco

service while Preme Secretsy

Eubourg

In atheng (eirca 1042-50)

but wun diami cod to 1000 folloytur the discuvery

that he was Into Icating Informacion und carrying

unt pr Comunlat mentone and because of bla

Commonlot convictlong.

It was ullcood that LE LA

MOTTE begin workini for the Sovlots about 1930,

nad

# ds f1

atlll on active spent of the sovlots in

1955.

He wor reperladly hued an an agent of the

Juviet Intelllenes drivice and was In cloue contact

WIEl TACO reperentatIves in Athens, Leunid

VILICHANSKY (201-63027) Can Athens In late 1940'g

1a1 Carly

1050'e) and Mikolal GUSEV (201-20808)

(1a Athcud cloco 1930-1902) and with notortois

Grock Concunote abroad.

Additional reports

allego that he varian arent of the Yugoslav I.g,

nnd in coutact with Spyridon THEODORCU (201-78315)

Kithfeerini

me arhnalkl correnpondent in Parly

a nu di

with & lonk Commundot record who wag

a Llalnon contact of the KKE from 1047 to 1010.

Till ononou

rat coodemicd to death in absentin by'a

Greck court so 1902 for participation in a kke.

caplounge nelrörk.

THODOROy was in'oldoe contact

with

the Mugoslow Embassy in Parte.

Un LA MOrrE reportedly is a close friend uf

Basil

MATIENCULO: (201-001901), Greok journalist

restatul 10 Boan, Germany, and sas responsible

for bringine unTutoronlos in contact with iss

representatioc: VECtANSKY and GUSEV Ia Vienia.

Tie repurt athter that it appears that hAthroPcules

had contact with the Ko upon his departure from

Greecy bocause in Germny lie castly cono in contrct.

with porty yrice-ho 1e active. da lest Germany with

the bulltbura of prague."

DE IN MONTE uny a close assoctate of Roger

MILIEX (201-221149) (currently French Cultural

Attnche in Miconta) shen both vere musigned to the

drench Inhausy 1u Athong in the late 1940's, where

both were repurtedly contacte of VELICHANSKY.

Roger nud hio cite Tatiana GRiTSI hiLlilk reportedly

nie both Concunisto with many high-level contacto

In the RKE. Titlina reportedly one & Soviet agcut

before her

arriore to loger and acrved as a re

crulter of Curmunint Mebters during the Grook

CIvil

War. Che has been noted in previous corres

pondence,

•Tatinin

hng

becu seported tu have an an

yet undeternined family relattuaship oith ViLICliSkY.)

Dustnis the fall 08 1051 (SGAA-16510, 13 Jul 55),

il ono nutca inat a vollele belonging. to Nikolay

zUbor ceportedly a dentor soviet lis. otitoer lin

---

## Page 19

CONTRADIN DI

1: 1:

ATr

nutrits.

R'1:

joi.

6 MEN:: CA

Leant baldeddle of callin

1.8 1d

: I.

Informatlon talcer, ball (dIS), Allcle,

1001-902

article

ment summo aleja.

(Hie

81P:.

Plendor of the suciad

1:6:

sormelon scarlee.

There

soverl

retonenten

1 ad

2r1 a110 tir Bols

1r.a 81

C1:400+0110

•lessonia sith the Caller inade.

lass

Agileada

contact.

incoleon

24 bept 19el, reported that Tisan:

hind

10016 1811

lnil

the disce"

1:1 schoolit

emilmany scored neivlee

114

will sir

1 :.

1 1!

6a9:1:131:1011,

reprcientative

mu imprankorouled Couns little

the

Dirrctur

120209.

10 cet 6l),

DIMITRAKUPUULOS AUtO,

tht BARTON man his decal CAthens) contact for

comountent lois.

The Nobisil report

described bhiron

nu Incoranton Oriicer with USIE.

It should be noted that BARTON was asslened to

Athens aning the mme ported tint both komtantine

MOUSSEN (201-267620) and Colla LAS 0201-22531) (whire

the inter vere bellevey lu

have

been

050d by DIMITMKCIOULUS as courech ot

1d.r0011099.

in mont lble

his relatenchlp with ballico du a similar

fastiles.

mis propluci by balk:

Comming

duriad borld bar 11, de sorred tith 66s

md ECA fire AIDi late 1010's,

unteer Cris-a), Tehras and Astantal; 1050-32,

UE15.

Athens;position termionted 28 cobruary 1053

aid matter rout on. Llet: June 1962-spoolance tilter

renuing me andychide Avenue, furt Hashlagton, Net

York.

i reference of BaRTOil's

1u 1962 kis une

Henry VOLKINING no Headquarters traced),'a literary

agent of questionable loyalty.

A Civil Service 1n

ventratlen on Subject 1u 19-18.

nod updated to 191,

revented

that it ing runored tune Bakrol win drinking

icavily.

C..

Arcurdlug du SGAA-33428 129 Au: 58) no one in

Killineral

had ever hearo no DIMITRAKOrCULOS belore 101u.

1148

repirledly

Introdueco do Bustns LAPEllOrOlLUS

fus

rothecrint!

hy 1E00 BAKKAS.

Accordlos. to EKAh-7039

THm1F091/20 stated that datiny wuy back

to the

1950'8

UINITHMOPOULOS ong-cunaidered an Auerdan

and that

he had bood accose to tirco tfltary

---

## Page 20

COMMANDMO

SBC 18 FiT

a f.

rainbod

#01818-0191161

Wide won de tend time due all

48,

Greed benlison.

Are defelnent dendquartere tracre in

KAKKANG LAD: (201-232463)

Burn 1202e du Athense:

Greece,

Bludled

1 5w

the sum,

6: 1.

1311.10

the Universities

and Parla; 1214-22-Jeurnallot 1u

• the Frein torcho

Pr.rlts

1on6-d0-1890

ed the Creex

kimbissy

the

the Libral:

Athens;

Und:

Dity

August 1026 clocitin

and elited

keputy

.. 180d.

t hip

a vy

(8:1

sie 1n.

поігий

i1 the oron: celeration du Lic li Concrol

do remadaco In tides

colitics un bots of deart 100s:

A seport fries

171!194,

110;

ith scrolce Comnno, dol

10%1:0

18 ipr 45,

the infe

m61811

Chine when

tile!

Direch 100%

The firror fi

of athens: get a commandon bcader 1o sn

tratlon, chich bie. ata

18:2:80 1.15

burt

have ang

"and mut seen to intor

The WAZAS

littenlty with the lins forcer.

montloned way. or may not be identlin!

EIth LOCO MAKKAS.

idea

MAKKAS throughont ble carcer has. expoured the

at improvine Greek-coulet and Grech-ilos Cras

11cularly bulgarian and Tugoslav reloalone.

Motherin carried an article on 28 done 1900, 1u

Enikas strongly worea, among other chlogs,

the batterent d. 161:81608

the suvlet Unlin

d1:0

roiurred irmcally to the fiverument'

"scrolle

24411LUe'

banares

ine ixitson allied li this con-

14el101.

platonal Committee

30 islandey 1'0 6806-056l, 28 May 57), aFro-

maliot Thermo-nuclent

rents. and

nuair Veclare vas doreed lu athens under Leon Maxili

an richident. mo screet FOX diletals,

Iraklis

PAPACIMISIOU and his wale Eurydie SPYRoslICk (the

latter wlih a recora of pro-Communlst activicles

up to the cur of 1953), Mlayed progtuent xole 1o

this cryan at100 alicast live of the misty per-

sualities she sirped the Initial appeal of the

MErAS organdation tore Corsudista

ur pro-Concunlsts;

at lcant 15 othor persons shu sigged the aprent had

a scord uf activity in ene

or sure of the Grock

Coonupint front organizationo.

MAKKAS has been n

nobber of nuncrous urginizationg such ag the V/C

Conpress, Stuckhola, 16-23 July 1058;the Spon

soring Connittee, Congress for Dinarmament and

Internatioual Cooperation,

Stockhole, July 1958

in which organization be was closoly associated

u1th. Stamatios MENKOURIS);

the Governing. Council

ut the Greek Peuce Coralttee, Jawuary 1059, aud

MAKKAS DeNt to Bucharent In Septenber. 1959 at

the Invitation vi

warn Nationnl Connittee fur thi

$Jo

1490:881+1964;

---

## Page 21

CONIPUATIONOS

•DSPAIEM

106-10-28881 11 11181u08

P'ebie cordio dr.ar.o.

Gl MHo MoRan!E:l

itlenadded

the thie tel-desl lier

rebraady

101,!1..

sirdeno poai

ds.: 1.

idila

Mntig.it por.pi0.10e.

dp,lo::aii d'e.à

LiilChalinsi thiat

1::

11.000:.00!:

1 16:080

8:0.11ET L06:65

14:1:.4001d1

1 .: B

Icgiesenll

+d6id1112.191

Iuue

Ailu-dstna

i J::02

MIGCHiCe 1I

utyf'e

feiymeci

A1 A

"Mirsi

minp.cuddd

narieo

a

ntojence

4,1 te

iddid

"io ditéli

dienirecd

tne

ifli.

d loni

MAKIAS

vieltei

sUbechred Bocherest

•180: 11.

w1t1

TaUC

lo Stocuss tho

abuve nlication

Nicha

PAVIYCHCY

TCI:

ATHE: 0109

2 1

5d, rcpurtod that a urually

rellalirrgi

0111*€°4:

tu

Geo circies

stnter

beIs"

evlde.nt

M?Bida bad Burio

that

colpletidy

Cyet

tu the ceoulo olde ind vea now parelelratlus

in the pillledllon dt the comne trcnd movar

Tnblic CLULaD° 0880

thit Thoodir! VCKAs,

t.he

forros.

Ulfecter,

V.ar.

a lonr-tino Coosuntut..

liad ruid a bull en tie alsotle atte quentfon,

Publla aotrlon

"euclur

up ulth the abeure conclucion that 70 fer cent ui

the Groeks vore

maosed to the mianiles.

CS :3/100, 201',

14 teb wü, iubucdt,

"Laitiae dlan!.

1oi buturo

adtlon in Greere,

reportedd that min vei

buty H11au

1I0U BEL Elth IUoT &Inuter o Coacesee

LOOi MAKRAG On 30 becanber (1001) and Clerusscu 1hs

lettlst uuns dor future actlou in Gicrco;

LIAKkhe

nereid iully that fus slioulu sollew in the luture

a pollcy of co-oxistence with other parties:

isde-

scnilence in foroigs policy; reststance to setu:

ntcule

und miaylle basen for Greoce; denucratie and

puclnt

nustice, cte.

RAKKAS 4l60 promtsed full cr

opeiution Junany soy sogular front.

In becenber lat,

MAEKAs rerurtedly. guu

Greck

ambarnoaron les Bsilarade.

24h0.n606

Alter hfa

ayalatnent

moetromrer in the preca,

TheDrun reported thins

MNrLANk

"idc Lled es senice aboue nla arritutnnat.

tatel et staldon

he.

thetirlt

thu ualle-bere veld cusprcrono ano hau

meticd Minirten

furoten.

M12:6 5010k)15 FLLELES

nut lo appeini.

HAKKAD TG

lelrrnde:

VENIZELUS

f,6;rain

Icrludly

ald WrLAle that aithough cankad. oro 2

slugid and:

lotculrur.ban. ha mis hnrdly à suvtet

aigiy'."

vENuleo roportroly winhed to imiruve de.

latlom betueen Greece ond iugoslavtn üith theüf-

Mradnunttero dlles de sut

1e:1 ldit

Pha MAKKàó' appoldtnent over becabé èi-

icclive.)

In Juno 1065,. 11 Tos reported (DAMl :8814,

15 dune. 65) thati"loft leantny'

unkkAs had replaced

SpIro MIOCASCOSUETATOS (Counselor of the Greck Ea-

Baosy, Furlo, or prers Affaire for nore thap toenty

Anhkas reporerdly protested bis predecersor'o.

k'Humanlte.

yortare to establish contact oith the Cuaaundol farer

Iu March 1065.

se vas roported that uakkas, úrees

l'eyranont lepresentotive to tue Couacll of Eurupe,

hou

beon oent on a eindion in Parin accordlur do Coorge

PAPANIREOU'& Inntrucelons' ustenaibly to ropresent

Greceo in the Counell df turope but du actually obtalo

IUROrEAtSOn-FeDrOlng KARANANAIS' novemento, plaua,

v1cws.,

etc..

Three vegurto reportedly bod becu

3J0

NE.BEY

---

## Page 22

14-00000

DISPARIN

recclord reclarly by aladeny through secret sue none fle

sco Mammala departure drus dier.

1003:

had been

i close peronal troud ci

ul brocco.

Interestlad to nute that wakkas nas.tover

Serctory of the Navy

(Flastfras Governdent)

vuring

the tle

that bikerricroules received

it

least:

ut

hts

no deal deferrat

Aron the

Nays

1 t

is

nen Influenl

3a l

I al

in ele

frisk.

it:

1 n

vas

li.wn

1902

to the

d.c. and

it ls intureadlus glue

ti

1ile Than do June 1002 DIA CACUL

Petit

by ine Gacid Governone to leave sorri

ul henltu: mis usfledal recess

In croere then showin ate unir of birthes tied

am 14.61

the same conth he apreared ta Nes Tort.

City, anil filed a mrrtge Monso applicatiin

nute:

ni warth an 1018.

It proars thal

in: 1952 Coal he tirel

started

unlue at cabling alterre.

it should

i13.0 le 1911i

that

at amprare that

fore suany on tenanus bolon/ vere nosigned to tie

Grusral

micably an New. Yore during the admi

Feriod.

LAMCHOS ENO ALSO & CONTACE DE DIMITRAOPEULES.)

2) CAFBINOPOULOS, Konstaatine (201-956761)

Born 1002,

kalevrita, Achaja, Greece

son ut doorge and Maria

Jebrallel

F-d620,

11. Mur 10) anton discusses the de

sentrate!

soviet Intelligence

Merwork

in Grerce"

thot intermion en rocco hag fren the se

viet tolvi

i,i

in arneral bect

mentate because

miny jovinalists have activoly collaboraded hith the

sorict barylee.

Letore

the

outlandog at the nit. i.

Itat

ui trusted lunamliote here solected for tic-

mation surpreen by the doviets--once more

on the ta-

dier:

O LOrRA VELICHANSKY Corner ToSs representa-

tive

in Atliens), The name cl Cunstanilno CAIRCRUle:

var included

In the list of journalists id nhom the

sovices vere particularly Interested.

sc:-2390, 72 dug 54) which contatred inferantion

concerning liots of journalists allegedly prepared

furthe

soviet Intelligonce servicellsts

LArSIROPCULOS"

mano in a section desigunted "Comunist and BAU

Journalists in Athens" and described hiu as follous:

"He in our san but is not organised.

He don journa-

If6t for Kathinerint and is useful to us in that post.

He du a creation.

Tole i protoze?) of Costas VIDALIS.

Yenrs ago ho synpathized with Trotskyism.

He 1s

a valuable pronpect but on opportuaist. Nevertheless,

exceptlonally useful to us."

LAFETROFOULUS hay been a journallet and Director

al boltelcal Aftairs for Kathimerint

silice the curly

1:0's, as sell nun arleer for RaJlo Athena lur several

In the 1050's.- decordins do EK1-2111, (21 Aur 62).

---

## Page 23

CONMINUATNNOF

SECIET

3) VLACHOD, LICal. (201-260212)

Cauca indi

Publisher da LeChteernt frou 1950

Cobra she Inticaltri

1i fron her

dather,

VLACHOU until Apill 1101, when the closed down the

newspuper niter tie aladlary coug.

Arone Ura. VLACIOU', Inthirerin stolg

merC

Konstantino MEDIRCHOULd:

LanSCIOs ANDROULIDAKI&

(ace

cummarics): Kongtontire ROUSSEN (201-251580)

with whos nhe reportculy lind a very close association

(eC NKAT-33. 20 Oct 67 for sumcary of ROUSSET/DIUI-

TRAKOEOUIOS relationuhip-it han bech noted that

Roussri ting allered to have passco USIS Information

tO DIMITHAKOFOLLOS OUTING ROUSSEN'S USIS coployacut.);

According tu. ZAFEIROPOULOS (SGAA-33528,

29. Auf, 58)

nu one in katluperin had ever heard of DIsTRARCICULOS

before 1946 when he was introduced to ZuElhoruLles by

LOUN MAKKAS. DIMITRAKOPOULOS apparchtly refused a

sulary and

goried for sevcral ycare for Kathimerini

under tole

norangement until he finally agreed to

uccept the sum of 2000 Urs por nonth.

Ills salary

W115

never increased.

He remined at Kathirerind

until his dialssal after the publication of an

article in late Novenber 1957 which, in the opiolon

of many suforce obervers, couchou oft the anti

oisolle carpotri which tin' throughout the Nioter aod

Spring o1 1957/50•

The folloulus Itony from LIcal VIACHOU's file

are worthy of note:

In lovenbor 1953, Bro. VinCiou ras one of 11

prominent Grecks, from concervatives to Comnunists,

who visitrd

the: Soviet Union on invitation of the.

Soviet Enlaggy. In Atiens.

1h1le there she race a

trondcast over Madio Moscor chich vas apparcotly

distorted tO cuund very Dad-Russian.

The doterviey

was harshly criticised by several Athens dally ners-

pipers.

Tra dnys lefore the departure of the group irco

Rugsia, Urs. VACuoy sent a coble to Kathtaerint

denying cotcrorically the pubiisied vorsion of the

ridlo Interviey.

A sortes of orticles in kathluerint

by VLACHOU, giving her observnticog of the trip,

characterised in SGAA-7940 (19 JaD 54) as "a bacter-

picce of obscrintion and critical insight toto the

Sovlet systom nho nothedr.

Dy far, the serica werc

the nort penetratingly critical of all those written

by the rcturning delegation."

EX1A-10662 (15. Soptenher 1964), roported that

Elool VLACHOU, Christos LMBRAKIS; and the Atscas

Ners Agency: (nccording to Sovlet Embassy First

ecretary Vitally Grigoryevich NOVISOV (201-1002407)

allegedly vere interested in collaboratlng 1o settlog

up an uiticial ThiS office lu Athens.

State Departrebt Tolcgron A 579 (22 Jan G5)

coucernd a convernation betcon no Eclassy officer

and VInCHoU during entch Urg

VLACHCU fronkly adaleted

tint opposition to Else Including her con pager, had

5J0

---

## Page 24

CONTINUAIONOF

DISPAICH

SECRET

canKirinted buth th

danker di tourunisa in Greece

and the

Conter Untou governernt's

probler.

alleged weakness in mecting

Mrs. VIACilouIs currently reuldins in Londos

from where shr attacks

thc

Crock junth

and the

nttitic

of the u.s.

tonard the Greek military

Gove roncot,

with corecuto

such as "J04o Lapus.

stole to bellove the they had not der inite to-

fornation that the rericans would at least

tolerate them.

and "the coup succceded tecause

of NATO traloing and NATO tanke.

What he bave

1n

Greece now le a NATO dictatorsbip."

1.

According to THOrITE/l (Attuch. to EKAA-8978,

24 Oct 6U), DIVITRAKOPOULOS first choc to Source's alten-

ton rent niter the nccuratich shen he met DIMITHANCPOULES

In Constitution sunre with Underminiater of Press (inu)

* ALEXANDRAKIS.*

Suirce sald that DIMITrOpoUluS would

work for anyone ind that the british vere then usios dim

to plant propaganda articles:

leodquarters files contain no record of an ALEXANDRAKIS

pusition, and torchu states that thoy have no re

cord of anyone by that nine recupylog the position. uf

Underminister of Press during tint period. Horever.

EKAA-1006 (Attach. C, poge 3) (Sco sumnary on Ande TROST

below centions

ono thy ALENSANdRARIS, Molotry of Trade

#CITeR. 19G0) who Is probably tocotionl with Niktins

MI.EKSANDRARIS, Grock Minister of Connerce 1957-38, and

reportedly a contret of TROST, thu was Yugoslav Counselor

for Icononic Afairs ( and known Fugoslav I.S.) In Athens

Pe nre unble to determing, however if the

latter ALEKJANDRAKIS is ideutical with the former Under

minister of Press.

In June 1964 (RN14-10012, 12 June 64), THSMT

reaffirmed thnt DIMITRAKQPCULOS cannot write and bag

littio apparent incore ires his journalistic sources.

Source said that he thought DINITRAKOTOULOS has a

kecret partnerchip with Erenclos ANDROULIDAKIS and

that DINITRAKOPOULOS and ANPROULIDAKIS had teamed up to

scl). cconomic information of value to businessmen as vell

as to help businessren get nccess to key positions.

following are vertincat Headquarters traces on ANDROULIDAKIS:

1). ANDROULIDARIS, Evnogelos (201-185637)

Born 1907, Crete

Journalist. (associntrd in past with Rizospatis.

Frola, Flertherig, Kathieerlel, Vira, Mastemborlkl.

P6n-3929, 21 July 1949, reported that AYDROU-

LIMKIS, a Cornunlet Jcurnollat, nos one ef the

prinilpal inforeants of the Sovlet ayeut, VELICHANSAY

(TASS correspundent, Athone) and worked closely ulth

Nikulnes GIANNAMS, trenslator of rodlo neas for

A CASe rey red dangerous con-

spirator.

ANDROUTIDANIS. reportedly ang

an uuques

toning and tootrd agent of the press KOB of the

KKF

who norted iu the

flold of antl-Anerlenn tutel

ligence.

The Journoliat roovers of this KOB vere

reportra to be protected for no good reason by

powerlul personages such an LANUIARIS and the en

courage of Sriocles ValikLos, and the Soulet In-

telligruce urteor in large depends upon tea.

Trait

---

## Page 25

CONtRIATION OF

DISPAICIO

BICKET

They have never been Willirred ly the police althuuch there arc

Impurtune docuiers of culurnce arainst then.

TGA-1724, 1 AnIch 1050. CarrIce ANDCULINKIS!

na re

ona Mot of douronlicto alleged to have actlvely

comebarated with the bovint service. Prior to

outlawme of the kir, a llot ot trusted journalists

were selectee for interneston by the Soviete, onco

ore on orders of LicitY.

SGA-3601, Dec: 1055 (Nomes and telephone numbera

of pessons contloned by Kke ofticial Konstantinos:

TRIANTASYRIDIO) Included the none of Evangelon AN-

DROILIDAKIS In a 1iet of subeeribero in 1951 to

1a, molication of the ikE front

or canization Pray,

with the statenent that the pro-

Cummunset record of mont of the versons licted le

wcll kuorn.

SAAA 21O8, 19 Nov 1001, mentions ANDROULIDAKIS

1n

connection with the Greck periodical Public Opinion

which wis the rontbly bulletin of the Grock Institute

of Public Opiniou) and deseribed bie along with Thou

dore VoKes a to forder Consunists who are llated

in the perlodeal as coourining its directorship.

It ntated that Evangelon ANDIOULIDAKIS in the cousin

of Gorse AUROLLIDNIs, editor-in-chler of Fleftherin

and olso a former Comuoint.

(It, should be noted

thint lion MARkAs, according to ATI 0469, 21 Jan 58,

eno anapciated with Puilie Quiniou which was described

n8 a Concuolst-fruat publicatfon.)

Por SCA-7341, 12 July 105g (Llot of Communist

and Inftlet tournalintel, deccribes George ANDROULINAKIS

or ANDROUIIDAKIS a hoving bech a Communist for many

years and very sctive before the war,

for which rea

he was

ropcatrdly arrented by Gueral-Security.

murking as a repurter lor Riz00paritis 10 November 1928,

ho

sent hy the KES to varicuo provinces of Grecco

in order to urganize arca committoes for the clection

ut representatives to the Fourth KKE Congrcas.

wan declassifled In 1941 nfter signing a statement

of repentence. After the liberation and a short time

after the December 1944 Revolution he worked for

Mauspostin sad then for Michl.

THODIUM reported numcrous contacts between George

ANDROULIDAKIS (1059-61) and the Yugoslav Embassy

Greece (both pith Veselin MARTIMOVIC (201-2354307,

Counselor at the Yugoslay Embansy and known Yugoslav

I.D., Qud DUSAD VUKICEVIC (201-3347827):

TIUNIO1/10 provided on 26 October 1964.

(TKA- 14020, 6 Apr 66) a 1100 01 Communist Journalista

employcd hy nationalies decorapore, "bich included

she nace of George ANDROULIDARIS.

P. Yugodlav Contacte of DIMITRAROPOULOS

1) TROST, Rade (201-60121)

Counselor for Econoule Affairs and know Yugo

oine Intelligence Officer (UDDA), Yugoulav Sabaasy,

Albens, Iron 1957 8o circa 1960.

---

## Page 26

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

SECRYT

80708.8025к) под кла-4006

cindaicen

•thc

1=e:

Set Tri:

Greek

"ra (Corterl:l

shovit bo noted that

negro entative) and ThaTe

DA TRANCICULOS In

(See suncary on Lisbias, belor)

aditmoton, D.C.,1o Juse 1562.

ERA-75S cortatin

the

KOPonKs ts oldels couridered ty the Greca security

offactale to ho car mito leak channel for the Tugo,

oinvo (via Trost) lu plantlog unuttributible

and proparamon to toe Greck press.

2-4096 Curce:

converrat

THUDICH) deserves erievo

10/1.

DINGERO

1o wordo noting: co 6/7 Jastars, 10600

la ricoT he win taisee a

Farit

"OD

10g°.

about r0 lays and mill

see.

General Nultufit abu the other conple.

"I 1l.2y?

try.

Ep:

sulco,

11r: beat gcupte."

PINITRIAL

lOUL salso

Cola

Thost that he gould like

ti have

a lone conversadlia pith

the Yugoslav

Antassacor

And THiST bodere

he'

dearerd on his trig

₫ ?)

artlele in

Makedste

about Greck-Tuscslav ella

Irs und wished to gir

tho details

ISOST rind

the Aubassador.

lIt

chould be

notro

1n the upring of 1960,

DIMITRANOPOULES

Fuble hed, several articles con-

connior Grock into perotlationn In Kara 19606

classion Porta

NATO 014

ala 20 his

source, be

jublished au article concerolor the estatlishrent

of a mirefle

he pubtished

tT.ri

i lase In Crete.

articles

1a Bay 1960,

gn Ethnos, one coocéasias

NATO deichae plans for Grocco In Chich he asca the

concl

still a

languase

Top secret Greck Defense dcuarnt,

second ose concernlmy on Italian deuceat fren

NATO Illes which depleted Grock Epirus as dibsolans

and

which resulted la straluod Itallan ores rolatious.)

2) RiBiRIC, Dorio, Colonci (201-749501)

Yugoslay Waiter) Attache, Athens Circa ices:

ERNA-13469, 5 January 1005, mentions pRiTRi-

KOPOULOS ne bolne au

"interloper" at a reception

and currents,

"It is quite intcresting

thot DINITRAKOFOLLAS vas precent fat the merption)

slice Henduarters will recall previous reportiog

linked

nin lotimately. to NIBARIC.": (NOTE:

n thornugh seres of doth DIMiTrAkoroilcs red

KInnIcs 20i files dilled to uncover aar furtser

MCDElON US a DUITRAKOTOULOS/RIDALIC relaticasDig.)

G. .

Mincollancous Contacts: 01 DIHITRAKONT:

Scable?

1) LAMBROS, Dimitrion (201-835828)

Nora 7 larch 1903, Alexandita, Esype

Son

of Nicholas

Forner pripate cecretury to Prime Misister

Fleftherlos VEITPLOS; renter

of Greck Purelga

Minlutry Since 1926; 1949-1052- Deputy delegate, US

General Asseably, flith renslon, New York. Accordlug

---

## Page 27

COMIIRUATION OF

DISrAICH.

SBCH.ET

sthrulin.ji

330

traveler:

mume trerrn eu

Mn-eotunl

Hig po,teitlnl

live aritoir oes

PrL.1D0.Uer,

1 1

1 ::

UIllIenlt lo uescr"

tlie.

tie:

vallilily

Muunh

Ind

lircts

mincc by perpoue

tliln

chet

N 11°

LLENe OOL DACMN

1y

Miven

Ln k inK

extrcmlat partiran dudsrents.

the b0nla. Cog thle chario

ntatrt

dur

ncT

Baky

be LAbiICS"

that

Kergona

frlenusbap

• 1th meveral pereuoe ot kuuwn Jctttet econonle

w 1

Cws.

In a KODONE report coocernlix DIMITRARCPOULUN

coitacte

16

the Untici Statea durtuc hio Junc-July 1052

vinlty

DOLCS DANIIRAROPLULOS oS In tolerhunte

contnct

Lohas6))

JAMBYOS then Couneclor of

the Greck

he wauhinaton,

D.C. (Chevy Chuse,

Nd.)

hone addrcbel

Iccurrin: to E6n4-4006 (Atdachmeot C)o Pade

TRUỚC Tn 109.60 wor 1n trcnueot coutoet vith

Llmitrios AaunoS, described da "Commerciul Kepr

bcntallve."

Tito dicumont cleo ctates tbnt TROST

was culllvating sevocnl Grech UA Lypes.

2) ercrdluk 8o.EKAA-14431 (1 Oct GG),

Seuatur Vrice WiNTil,

acconianicd by hii close

fricntn, mao and Mri. bliot JNSiPdY, vinlted Grecco

In srplenber 1066, and vere sined and clood by

DIvftAroPoLtos and Introduced to many hligh-level

Gucck and other forelyn sovernnent otficlals an his

"uld aud dear irlends."

The Conyrcantonnl locord, dated 22 March 1908,

contalas tun ltcns concerolng Interviews by DIMI-

TrAKOFOULOS wILD LARTKE und JANEHAX, reejectlvely.

(A copy le attocheu lor your informition.)

rue follouini mre lloadouarters and LNERGO trNCCH

ON the JANERAYS:

The iulley ing backround summary, dated August 1054,

was durnlched by LNEXiGO:

!?0l..

EllOt JAVEIAY Wns born in New York Stule on

Jamnary 1. 1913.

llis Inther, Meyer AACOLSTRIN, NDS

bori ln kissla bue the nationality of hig mocher ls

unknowu.

Un Movenber D, 1001, whfle attcuding

Curnell Unlveralty, JANLIAY varrled Carol RINDSPOCS,

an Encricon eltlaen.

diter eraduntlug frou Corncll

HI 1032, JANEVAY and his nife traveled to England

for the purpose of jurnuing their studles at the

Lundon Schuol of Ecenomiee..

iccording to a reliable forelgn source, JANEWAY

aindl bin wife left the United Kingdom on Auguot 30, 1933,

and

travoled to the Sovlet Union.

Tbia trip vna rc

-porteuly Intluenced by Sergel DINALOV of tho kusalan

Unfon ot Revolutlonary hrlters.

Prfor to maklug

thia trip, JANEYAY indicated that he was

nota

uoriber of the Comnunist Party but Iotended to become

one upon hin retura to tbe United Statca.

• Durlog

the porind of tire JANIPAY Nas la the Sovlet Unloo,

1ittle le knowo of hia

nctlvitles, accordlog to

the relioble forcien nouree, other thay the fact

that ho van caployed no a typlot and rerorter for

the Honeow "Botly Newn." Wnile In the Sovlet Valon,

JANEMAY And his olle roparated.

She obtained a

porltlon an lpscor correupondeut for the learat

nenujogere ond be roturned to the Unlted Kingdou

"n asto sor niro

A 1A=

---

## Page 28

CONTNUATION OF

DRCH

ET

the aviore

Purpope of continulng

ble sliden

"rha

In anuiry

Minnies,

Here thro 21.

.19:3:

harler.

but

-10:0

he demiura dur ear sickl.

te the bilird

• Austrina Connunlal:

the lastals

niel grie

Die:

accordine to the rel

ble foreign surce,

JANET AY JoIned

the

-Cormu

10 Novenuer

100707•

-aud

Farty

nember

of. the

Southeantere

Sul

•ict

shed

to lavo

carped

a bad

Jopu

Tr

Communists

abu:

Yebrup 01 1034.

the bondon

"announced tho

exgutsion

iron the

Commun

•ty

JANETAY

of

colitlent

1tyo

This

on the grounc

by the rollable toretso source to be locativel

with

discons felt the United Kloscra

for the.

Unpro Stated on Februnry 22,

1034, and

vpin. r

cachine

this coutry reporteuly loturned the

Anerican Connunist

farty that he had boed disciplised

bj

the Communtst Purgy of Orcat Britaio.

FLIUL JANEYAY AnS at

one time associated sith

Interontional statistleal Dureau,

10 111th Avenue.

and with Tendleton;

Dudley and Asso

cinter,

270 Brauciay, Ner Tork City.

He hat at

Vir lous

elmen coutilbuted arelcles to the fellesins

publications:

"The Natlou,

"Asin" magnelne, the

"New York Times" Sunday Magasine Scction, "Fortune:

mi can i

and the Federatco Press:

•Life" minnIne in 1041 he woo ARseciate

•Deutschee Volksecho.

Incorporated. Au of April 1932,

JANSAY ons loentilled as a consulting econogist

nnd bustness

trends consultant for "Ncweveek

marazine.

A lens llem appenring tu the June 10, 1938,

Isnue of the

"New

Turk Times: Indicated that Ellot

JANETAY Bin cospenker

nitb D!: Harry N. Laidler,

state Cindran of the Solaliat Party uf the state

of Mew

York, lu the openlos vesstou of the annual

centerence

ul the League for Industrlal Deaocracy.

This conference was uold at the Unity llouse, the

Summer casp uf tbe Interbational Lutes Garbent

Workers Colou at Porest Tork, Jennsylvanla, on

June D, 1938.

CuTF: leadenrters files coutain the fol

1on 1ng

Increation concerningaiu Indivldual

cho is

possible luentlenl pith Berto HOLLERING, ment loved

tu above LNIAGO Gurnary:

A rellable source knoledgeable of Coninters

actlvities in Eurore durtos the 1930'g advised

that one linrbarn

TARNAY,

bellevod to be an allas:

uned by une bertha BUNGESS, ros known to Conlotero

nificiale in England And Austria as Barbara ARCHER.

Berthe TARNAY and Bertha

SeLLAKING.

TARNAY sis

recuerended by Coolntero. off/clala

In London 10

1934-1935 for courter dueles.

She bad previoualy

wurkod for the Colnters lo Austria, using ebe

DADE Bertha TARVAY and Berthe HOLLERING.

Source

lu nor kuledgcable of TAkÁY's pregent counectiona

or activlelca.

An LAGOLD vira check datod 31 December 1064.

cootalood the dollostog blorraphle Jotormation on

---

## Page 29

CONTINUATION OI

DISATCH

DECRET

110

PerLa T. DURGESS:

Bern 26. July 1871, VIennn, Amitra; natllal

statust eepurned: eleanohlp artiloh; addrorr

41 Fellou Road, Lundon lin 3, coployment-retired.

Ao LiniGo report (dated 11 Out 54)

contaIng

the Intorontion that the Yuzosiov Delocation 16

Hop York Clly wAB

the recipient

of correspondence

do tod 20 July 1930 Kron

Avenue.

Now

XIIOU JANETAY, 279 Park

York City.

Another

LNTIGO report

contains reterence

to

one

ret

•Dec

JANETAY ho

out

a-check"

datcu

11.

er 10330 to

Svetotnt Kosta

NANDUKIC aka

WANDUKIC

(201-3060),

who

frequent contact

•ttb Yugoln Goycresent

otficials

CItv.3

to New York

(Seo summary un Jack DASSEMIAN below for

further ocotion of WANDUKIC.) Ncaduartere traces

On LEFTATO JANENAY were necativo and LNERGO had:

Do additional Informition which might the in

Margarct JNIEWAY with Bifot and Carol JANEWAY.

In nnother INFIGO report. (dated 21 Nov 54)

concerning louls FISCHER, aka FISHER (201-3280),

shu, accordiny to LNFIGO, has been cunniderod by

cady to have boon a boviet aycot for many yeure,

Carul JAEHAY'n onme appcory 10 n acction entitled

•Activitten and Associates (01 VISCIEK) after tue

Cernan-Sovlet, Pact, August 1939," As followu:

An ININGO source of unknown reliability fur-

ninhed Information in 1942 which Indicated that

RochAr wann contact with Carol JANEWAY 124 Ennt

10tb Stroet, New York Clty, lo December 1011.

Another LNERGO snurce of unknown rellabtilty

advised on y october 1952 that Carol JANLWAY held*

renbership in the Communist Political Ausociation

1n 1951, ond was a echuer of the Sacco-Venzettl

Club.

The sloys informone sinted that Carol JANEWAY

attended schools to sovlet Russia during the

1930'" when she visited that country (although

source old but belteve the uchools vere dicectly

connected eith

had Coreunist literature in her apartment.

According to the dbove LNERGO report, PISCUCR

recalled having act Carol JANEWAY and bor mother in

Fursin durios the 1030'g. He said she gas an anteur

palater

or ortiat.

3) WASSERMAN, JUCk (201-240834)

902 Tarner Building, Mohlogton, D.C.

Lowyer for NUbert BRINTERG COnjaDy (DIMITRAKOPOULOS"

alleged current reployer), cho represented Di

TRAKOPOULOS 10 111In5 bia GiA Preference Patition

to 1aN8.

INERGO reporin deucribe MASSERMAN an a conto

•so bad boro seen connel corning cable a sareer.

veroial tipo.

Internal accurily canen (ohich percada aninly lo

perscan chanected olin cubcradro groupe, Sortet

Aroun

- 8: - 0 70

406582-900-918

---

## Page 30

CUPTINUAMONO

GECNET

cover orinnlentlons and persour sith soviet allillatlonn.)

An

INFACE.

ICBMINE

inted. 21:

1:404.

Tidicata

át

•Dare: 1.

In the

1210.06

di.

are terrig

SANDRIC

(201-36,011).

PaStUKIC,

nonetsation

with the

Yia-

4:83

clay Government

cun

truction of

ụ 11 l

in hugosla:

80 1 cl

trequent coutet

Rade THOST. Conne

Atta¿

Cun

he al the Yunucla,

wulate

Nes York

City

1954.

NUTE:

TRUST

I 39 17

Mthens.

1957-39, and bad frequent coutacts

WILb DIMITNANCrOLLUS.

Lee bunny ou TROST.

(nce allo ole have hero vorouely reported priear ly

b coulers a Trkey da ccllab ratoroof the Gerans

duringtone ril, agente od Cath (the Yugoslov

In 16011

но зло сиву Service) and the висессья

Intellinonce uranizatlod Ult, aud sunsible Soviets

a800te or Informanti.

MANDUKICe 11le borever, indi-

Caten that the luformation nay bave originatod. from

two Yngusine sources ihich vere connidored unreliable

and prejudlied.

An ININGO repert, however, dated

29 July 1950, staled thot KOHEerA MAIDUKIC wAS TE-

portrely in contact oith no alleyed Yugoslav intel

ligence nuent in Nos York City, god dencribed her

as a person ri louse morale.

Anüther LNERGO bource

stated that she would be the type of individual ybo

gould corry out ab intelligence auslenment for n

Yurony Corconcent official 11 requested to under

tako such an asalenanot.)

3.

Given

volved,

the background of song of the personalities fo

it la posalble that the minter plan vas laid in 1950-52

to ratobllah the sange of DIVIRKUPQULOs as a Dro Acerican:

(pro-matern) potrlotle pournalist of great deptb.

ve can only surmise the true rednonn behiod the plad.

Unfortunately,

He do

hrever, that it one around this proled that DIhITRA

RopouLos suddenly became on chilly and a thorn in the side of

Grecce/U.B./ATO In mnitera ef mutual interest.

It van also

at this tine that DIMITMKOFOULOS apparently falsified his

are to deliberately create the lunge of a tature educated

Indlvidunl well verned lo the polltichl etrategen of inter

nottoral alfaire.

low succesaful he ins at attaining thie

goal we have living proos.

How

he accosplisbed thie with

little or no fornal cducatton la ntill a systery.

Fe do

not hellove he could have manged thia eithout belp. But

aho bin pentorn vero (are) ir

still woknras. to us.

Con"

sidering the type of individunla nho scre closest to hie

during the fornative geore ut dio "irige mking," any ono

of scerol could bave

couspired with ble for this purpose

iLCoD HARRAS, for canople, could have played a very larco

role.

tentiould

not discove blend VLACHoU'a sole, citbor,

on ono of ble early capicyrra.

PAPAGEURGICU 13 cortably

ruspect nince it way his neuspager which sirat publisbed

the story of the herote Eltas, and it does not appear

that he checked ble Incts very carefully, and so on

dosa

tbe 11no..

DIUITRAROPOUT.0G 1e 88111 In the D.9,, and continues

dosheel nud deal with prostient pereonagra.

for example:

In June, he noneared at the Indianagella 600 Buto Rice and

mas locroduced

on the radle by Nonstor MAsTEs of Indiona,

se chat Inuntant Greek cormagendent

DIMITMAMOTOULOS. "

le alno cructerd thround mamt to 00o

LUKe NATTIX At SCATO LAPOrATER.

Allached for your Inpor

mation la a copy of a lenoranta for the record coccorning

3e:

#70+446-3-8861435

---

## Page 31

CONTINHALION OP

DISPATCH

SE CRS T

tone viole to Beote.

Hie:

not for

nece you inforred of future develouments. l

turnard

any auditional

Bulo. d0 develop on his bockground.

Information

Helen B. BROGDENE

247-704:01

2001-63077

+601-02688019

201058215

401224113

201-194054

201-261080

203-022534

Tory

SE/ 242530

-Trati and

***

---

## Page 32

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 10 January 1968

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

SUBJECT:

ILIAS P. DINITROKOPULOS,

aka Elias Panayotis Demetracopoulos

FILE 0:

Nonê Given

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE:

S February

1968

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT:

ILIAS P. DIMITROKOPULOS

FILE #: NOVE GIVEN

FBI DOCUMENT (Excerpt)

DATE:

27. March 1968:

SUBJECT:

Jack NASSERMAN

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

FILL

Nöne Given

---

## Page 33

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 31 December 1953

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: VALENTIN IVANOVICH SCHORIN,

was. Valentin Storyn; Valentin

Schoryn, Shorin

FILE #:

S05-3116 (New York)

100-382432 (Bureau)

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE:

•4

August 1954

CLASSIFICATION:

SUBJECT:

CONFIDENTIAL

SVETOZAR KONTA MINDUNIC,

aka; KOS ANA MANTUKIC, aka

FILE M:

100-93695 (New York)

105-58304

- (Bureau)

---

## Page 34

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: May 1957

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: MARGARET JEANNE NENCOVA, aka

CILE N: 105-2931 (Philadelphia

105-21511 (Now York'

100-380524 (Burcau)

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE:

3 January 1954

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: VALENTIN IVANOVICH SCHOKEN,

vials.

FILL 9: 105-3418 (New York

100-382432 Витсаи

---

## Page 35

TRA

OFFICIAL DISPATC

il

CONT"OL

657a

(101 3703)

DATE

8 Cotober 2081

Pales of Ballen

CaDe 1ellO 12103, 100 0524038

REPEREICISI

17P1-7210,

1D Bostonder 1001

WY TWo 5398, IS Hay 1981

come so to attentios of Borrara co

Pared.

that alopaten

we statod that

to belseved

Do corking

4000rdint

too, discolrod

or Le 160

• по pro

MA morosy brother.

1238.200

ROPRIO

conesotion

Babangy that do

uned as a over

Wrough rollable

Headq

Too: bo pointed sue es

pontele so rooora of aryono liontariablo

CONTOL

0 31.29 -7

INDEX

201-67022

---

## Page 36

FRI DOCUMENT

DATI:

5 December 1951

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

CLARA ALBINSKY

Clara Zimmerman, Jackie Albinsky

FILE #:

105-1181 (San Francisco)

100-382500 (Витеци)

---

## Page 37

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

но прА: 9206

FEN

DATE:-

19 Septoaser, 1951

1H0m

chlore

Referenses

WXATO Cogpan

Sabriolle NEISS, no STRADS

HXP-4509,

3 Judo: 1949

A 169%

29 July

1049)

36253:

-19.50

PONS- 0579627

July 1950

AHAR

tha:

one.., ho

FUKARO COON

Д.TV

ago aCSirIties

motion with

410д Co. Cho

by

Cover

Bour

nor bore

"gos the

FULLRO Coupany

Sult do qualitiot no suspoot by rageoa of hor

copload

000-

Subjoo*

rofusod a ties at Montreal

of the adore dacoransion

Bub 154180:

The

Turnlohed by chie

office

FOCUSA)

•Dai

•oction 18

so the pubit

1n Mostrenl

A 3010-

om rooldenta lathe

a Photograpa of sub

282%

(-14) a8883)

ARO. Con

Do commerded: for yo

IA COPY

eRST

CLASSiFICATO

matten a miles.

---

## Page 38

a gun 84

: 882-26732

was represented at leant in teneration muttore bi ruck inera

m attorey

Ene Radices in the wamer butlanes kashineton, D.C

(Marperfrid cane to the

arlentin of the tol mich mis efforte to obtain a visa in 79426):

Investipation of reaidents of lechaluts farm,

as marxiato md tro-soldet."

Carparertly a Zionist orginization) burine th

month of September, 1952,

following nall was directed to

9/10 TO: Ruth Benoway.

1239 Findlay -Ave.

Yew tork so, vot

te Inferition Act of May 26,

Inveatipation of Clara (or "Jackte") Albinoly for violation of

the l' 3, ind had been denia.

Siby had ap, lled for extenston of stay In

ber 1283 111e Indiecres that the Hebrew Innirrant

clety, son Fricisco, aa, mom as tAs,

forerly hindled trio matter,

out alresent lack rindertia, a lastington, boc. artise; had recently taken

her case.

WAs 572 0t51

sibi: Gaurialle valsa, see Straign.

lara ls Hos filen contain no

attomer, Jack nassermon, of cabinrten, D.C.

record of ingone identiftable with sundect!?

Subj: Cabrielle relia, nee Strange.

Visa st Pontreat, md waa record an

Subs wag arniyinn for tus.

"entry prejudictat to tre public Interest."

Jub'a case hao been rene tated collowns recelpe in intreal from the Dopte of

state encloninn testimontale from restients in the laB. Inordine one lack

D72-32117 alst

intrir investigution)

uh: vaimes inoison descrin (ro indiestion of why Jub) 19

"Relative to luce dancera of 19 bust Vinta Street, Yew ork Clis, who

was previously reported sis a fried whon the surger ineded to join upon his

arrival in the United Stater,

york an checked on Februa 81/sloy

reflect the

Pollinine report of Jime 23,

ac wasserman and site,

July, crome, presently rende at 1y fist Yinth

Street;

ten tort city.

C1 tv.

Jee Wassernan

They Porterl resurd at 126 Last ostr. Street, Now York

isin no 3oe and prerates alone with hia ike ab a partner,

the ungramman Greene Copiny, 110 West Loth Street, YewYork Cuts, Manuthctirers

Repunsen titives.

"Tir records of the Voror Senicle Burean, Youtork City, were checked on

Febriury 9, 1954 by

relaulie to Wasserman with negative

resülta..

36 Bec 5:3

D72-32031

subj: Schorfn.

Schorin apparently was in DP Carp, Fischbeck,

Percura,

Germany, Upon arrival in jai.

stended to Join dach learero, 19 Sast

lasserman on mailine llst of varkera Farer inn officer co inerican

Committed for burorea

Korkers Relie?, casssinal sconsered schorin in entering

the W.s.

on 29 July 1919> Tre Inderencent

the

sclalist Learue, comerly inow As

vorkers barty, his been cited at sibiersive

sid "represents but a change in name

and 1a devoted to tie some aina and purposes of los predecessor."

orzanfration wich geeks to "alr tee

tutional roars."

coin ol overment of the US by iconsti

littomey ben. do Fooard Nobrach, leter to tre Lojalt, Review

soard, relended sep 29, 1949).

201-240834

---

## Page 39

14-00000

• 1250, that Ellen reelor

, unich letter Misted anone officera

Jae haosemnon, 19 Sast Y inthe Sto, 7o oC

wasseren

N 3660 1) gam 9)

en antogla satir solden (no enclooure listed, hence no mention or subj)

Hin Lee Mao (jubj asperently here as otudents menber Chicon

Gevt. ordered not to leave U.So then circulated letter clatming was unable to

retum to Chino, mu very bitter) Jack kassermm listed-ag Subj'e attorey•

labg cune to the tos, in 1947 for cradiate school at USLA and scrippa Instituto

ol icemorrarty, im Diero; at time he luft China was atill undor Nottinalist

atromy for Malara.

701-240834

---

## Page 40

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

When Poison

PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUES:

RI/AALYSIS SPETION

ACTION

FROM,

201

INSTRUCTIONS:

Nra:

SECTION 1;

prarided.

All kno

•SECTION

Deal

and Jachlon

SECTION 1IA: To Be

Bead

BENSITIVE

101 40,

HON• BENSITiVE

WASSERMAN,

(P6rm8)

SECTION I

240834

(0018880)

TACE VIRIN

SOUNCE DOCUMENT

Faem 1220

LAMI

1010410).

(TIO):

OPY

ad per dando

1°1 arous to serien

DECOR

OCCUPATION/POJITI

eccipos.

LAw.

SECTION TI

SECTION 11B:

ISR

FACTION DESE

USA

JIANGOT ME 3RO COUNTRY INTEREST

240534

roiricas

1 38)

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

PARTIAL 201 CONSOLIDATION REPORT

DATE OF PAID RATIO

201-241834

CASIC PAYS DA SURLICT

and, dagledo poster

JacE HASSERMaN

ALIASES ANO ARAS

DATE 0₽ BIRTH

PLACE. OR-BIAT

OCCUPATION'"

atty

OTHEN IDENTIPYING DATA

The 1959 Washington Metropolita telephone directory liats Jack WASSERMAN

If attorney, dth offices in the warner bldge phone 58rling 3 9905

reaidence hit Sedgewick N Wash. D.C. home phone. WOdly 6-5292

INTORMATION'ON STATUS OF CASE

INTEREST DO CASE

Subject has appeared an an attorney for several persons

connecter? ndth subversive groups, Soviet cover organizations and has

sponsored Ingration x of persons with Sovlot astana affiliations.

OTHER DEINS AND ANY STATIONS NAVING AN INTEREST IN CASE

Sa/2

DETAILS OF HANDLING GIVEN THIS CASE BY PRESENING OFFICER

(Chool sopropriato Don)

A NIM 201 NUMBER DAS ISSUED AY THE REQUEST UF TNE DUEPARING OFFICER

SPELLING VARIATIONS LISTED ABOVE WERE CHECKED THROUGH PO/RAIN INDEX

ARAS AND ALDASES LISTRO ADONE MERE CHÉCKEO THRUVR ADMAIN INOR :

POU REFEPENCES MERE OSATO POR AND PERE RECEIVEO

INTORNATION FOR 201 ROOM.

(Check eppropriaro Dorys ind suople additlonel dernilo!...

THIS SUQJECT HAS A CRIPTONYU ASSIGNED TO MIM

THIS PILE SHOULD DE CHARGEO PERMANENTLY, TO REQUESTING-OSFICER

THIS VILE SHOULO DE IMPASTO PERMANLATER, TO OTMES HELDER ÀS INDICATED

THIS PILE SHOULO DE PITAISED BY SHE 1O1 BOOK AS AN

OPER. FILE

ÍNIS PILE ANOULO BI RITAINIS OY APARO ACCESS RISTOICIEC AS IMDICATED

MAat

(runo of orders

FREPARIN

CFFICER

OFFICE

NБ/5

Hog 09.

1512

ĐUILDING

---

## Page 42

FBI DOCUNENT

DATE: 3 January 1954

CLASSIFICTIONE CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: VALENTIN IVANOVICH SCHORIN,

wiS.

FILE #: 105-3116 (New York)

100-382432 (Burcau)

FBI DOCUMENT

DATI::

31 Döcember 195.3

CLASSIFICATION:

COXPIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

VALENTIN IVANOVICH SCHORIN,

was: Valentin Scoryn, Valentin

Schnryn

Shorin

sorin

FBI FILE #:

105-3416

(Nesi York)

100-382432 (Bureau)

---

## Page 43

FBI DOCUNENT

DATL:

30 December 1952

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

llan lee,

FILE M:

105-264 (San Dicgo

105-19164 (bureau)

"llenry"

---

## Page 44

FBI DOCUNENT

DATE: 14 JANUARY 1952

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

CLAKA ALBINSKY WAS?

Clara Zinnerman, Jackie Albinsty

FILE #:

105-1181 (8a0 francisco)

100-382500 (Bureau)

---

## Page 45

for sir

. MA

CEFICIAL DISPATCrI

DISPATCH NO.

CONTROL

weN. 15:12

(301-6106)

TO

FROM

DA TR

# Ootobng 1961

Chador of Station

Ohior, too

I ODIERAL

1 8F2CIFC

•ПЕРПЕСТО:

AriA-osio, 15 Bereantor 2061

1.

Foldentl" our dianetor

one 10 the atomilne of

In-law, 1o

ballernd to bo mirkine for

2.

Al'ra 3.18 tries

mmA dinandrei murly in dily 10dr.

anpopig la 18 tle company 10

or 1e le toe artunily alooni

pulate arsen, lown:

#or. Vigo

strauin prilari

Firong

5) 494.n50

proa

trainerd

Die the then tomony

has trir, you

H507H110

cerlin

sound noe to retositerad

no, no randeroin semoria:1o

of mandanton, voc.

7/01r31/45to/2t

CONTROL

i. s Chainian.

4024 go.

51-29

---

## Page 46

1÷722228

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DIORATEN NO NIPA- 9216.

SSC8BT

CLASSIPICATION

Chief, r

DAT

10 Septomber 1081

PHON

Chlef

BUNINCT, OPPONAL.

•FURARO Company

DANCIFIC.

Gabrielle, 7F155,

TRAUSS

Referenens

HpP-1500.

J June 1949

HYP-1682, 18 July

199

FiA-0679, 2) July 1960

The above aubteet, hora January ath 1910 se Melyfalgo, Huncary.

lo presenely apilyine for a 0:s. tenderation vira ot Montreal,

the ranorle of cha

profanti

олА.

collca.ohe lo

Recording to:

of the do unere of thi

ninter-In-lan of Preor AiTH.

to Canara da 1049:

MaRi Canary la Parlo who roportatly,

mint aritadi

lan penirted to so tha manar or 200 of che orlainal

one chaurant sherra of cha

FURARO

F915458 C:710810

Criminary

Accoriline to the armo aneroe the

"ir.

hail noon reported ty UNreas an boine a cover for Goolet arplon-

Pranne.

neoclon

sunimal da quallfial as quenost by condon of her ada

2a

Bunjoet was renant a elas at Monernal on July 3eA 1950 m tha barlo.

of the above information Moralited ly isle ofiles to the Visa snotion la Parto on

19 A,rIl 1050.

The baria for raniel

"antry

prejudiciel to

tha

Sun trollo. 09go has

Milllo interest".

now boon reactirains pollarine, racaine in Montrent of a meno

Unitas Staton,

eho dopertmone or sonia enoloning tracinontala from centrance in eno

porting cubjectle vien appliertio.

inotudling ono dans Adoran, on nttorney in dishington, DoCo, napo

hur lubpaler 05

althourh are was

Subjere han now romeatal chat har care do rovers,

atatine that

amare of har

firi

of chia ant

parrolnd with his

carin-las'o bolnage darlince,

ahe disapprovod

thot ahe ous nover a shareholdes. In sav-or Nia

Shn

Narther

•I*

recorde howeror.

l'a a "matenp of

that her arpitcation for an oxit

for

Canade In April 1940

no supported by a letter troa

Ane to Connie on busineno for ei cle

seating that

she is pronerd.

Dolled reullins, ahe

While In

nittross

bullding oined by HOtHe

ore mino chen for lante and portan

4.

• photograph of

Tro abovo 1a foreandas for yuir soforestos and flieo.

mubjoot.

Attenhad de

SECRET

CLASRRHAPICN

5301041834

---

