# 104-10169-10258

## Page 1

104-10169-10258

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

668

1& APR 68

-BATE

10°

• BELL

FROM & MINAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION A BELL 15

INFO

DOM 2, 008, ADD9/A, DRO 2, TI/D I, HA, BELL SIC,

inspe- damines.

*OUTING

APR 14

20497 61

ROUT I NE

IN 3437

BELL SITE VAVE 5647

aMZIP ZRPERUSAL

21*3437

REF A. BELL 1184

KB• WAVE 3593

Corasio)

1o RICARDO RODRIGUEZ RAMIREZ, "MEREJO" OF ESCAMBRAY. FAME AND

FORMER LIEUTENANT OF OSVALDO RAMIREZ, ARRIVED IN VAVE ARE 6 APR

ACCOMPANIED BY WIFE, JUAN CONSUEGRA VALDES, AND THREE FISHERMEN •

2. FRELIMINARY DEBRIEFING OF "MEREJO" INDICATES THAT HE WAS

ABLE TO DO VERY LITTLE DURING THE ESCAMBRAY FIGHTING, MOST OF

HIS TIME BEING SPENT IN AVOIDING THE MILITIA WHILE TRYING TO

RECEIVE AIR DROPS WHICH NEVER MATERIALIZED. MEREJOS TOTAL TIME

AS AN INSURGENT IN THE ESCAMBRAY FRONT TOTALED ABOUT THREE MONTHS.

HIS AREA OF OPS WAS CONFINED MAINLY TO THE SIERRA DE SANCTI SPIRING

AND AROUND THE TOWNS OF SANCTI SPIRITUS AND JATIBONICO.

3. "MEREJO" WENT TO THE HILLS IN THE LATTER PART OF DECEMBER

GO ON THE INSTRUCTIONS OF AMDIP/3 WHO AT THIS TIME WAS TRYING

TO ORGANIZE AND SUPPLY THE INSURGENTS IN THE ESCAMBRAY AREA.

BY : JANUARY 61 MEREJO WITH

LT

AND

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING CARCE IS PROHIBITIO.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

LESSIFIED NESSAR

HAVE 50%7

3*37

OSVALDO RAMIREZ WERE ABLE TO GATHER A FORCE OF ABOUT FIVE TO

SIX HUNDRED MEN IN THE SAN AMBOSIO AREA OF WHICH ONLY ABOUT

ONE HUNDRED WERE ARMED. THIS FORCE WAS MOBILIZED ON THE BASIS

: OF INFORMATION FROM AMDIP/S WHO SAID THAT THEY WOULD RECEIVE AN

AIR DROP ON 6 JAN® THE DROP NEVER CAME AND DUE TO THE ACTIVITY

OF THE INSURGENIS IN THE AREA OF THE DZ THE GOC BROUGHT IN : FORCE

OF ABOUT 30,000 MILITIA IN A PERIOD OF ABOUT FOUR DAYS WHICH

FORCED THE REBELS TO DISPERSE. IN MEREJO'S OPINION THIS WAS

ONE OF THE GREATEST SETBACKS OF THE ENTIRE ESCAMBRAY FIGHTING

AND WAS A MAJOR CAUSE-OF THE FINAL. COLLAPSE OF THE ESCAMBRAY

FRONT•

4• ON 8 JAN MEREJO AND.

OSVALDO RAMIREZ WERE FORCED TO DIVIDE

THEIR DWINDLING FORCES IN ORDER TO BREAX OUT OF A THREATENED

ENGIRCLENENT BY THE MILITIAL» AFTER SEPARAIING FROM OSVALDO,

MEREJO AND HIS MEN WERE CONTINUALLY ON THE RUN FROM 9 JAN UNTIL

8 FEB AT WHICH TIME HE HAD A SHORT RESPITE TO TAKE THE AIR DROP

OF PARA 1 A, REF A. IN ADDITION TO INEORMATION ABOUT THE DROP

IN REF B MEREJO SAID THEY HEARD THE PLANE AT THE APPOINTED TINE

BUT WERE NOT ABLE TO SEE IT BECAUSE OF THE CLOUDS WHICH COVERED

SHE DZ AREA. THE PLANE PASSED OVER AND NOTHING WAS DROPPED

ALTHOUGH THE DZ WAS LIGHTED WITH THE PROPER SIGNAL, A CROSS

OF SEVEN LIGHTS. MEREJO"ASSUMED THAT THE PLANE HAD NOT DROPPED

AND WOULD COME BACK THE FOLLOWING NIGHT. HOWEVER, NEXT DAY

HE HEARD THAT A LARGE DROP HAD BEEN MADE ON THE TWON OF SANTA

LUCIA SOME 12 KMS AWAY FROM THE DE AND THAT THE MILITIA

RECOVERED EVERYTHING•

EEPRODUCTIOH BY OTHER THER PEATINE ONT

L IO PROHIEITED.

PhaE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CHESTIO MESSINE

HAVE SAY

3637

SO DUE TO IME LARGE AMOURT OF BATERIAL DROPPED THE GOE

APPARENTLY ASSUMED INAT IT WAS INTENDED FOR A ALRGE FORCE OF

INSURGENTS AND INMEDIATELY POURED MILITIA INTO THE AREA TO .

FERRET THEM OUT. MEREJO MAD TO DISPERESE NIS REMAINING FORCES

... ABOUT 200 MEN OF WHICH ONLY 26 VERE ARNED, IN ORDER TO BREAX

' OUT OF THE ENCIRCLEMENT. MEREJO WITH ELEVEN MEN TRIED TO MAXI

HIS VAY TO CAMAGUAY: ON THE WAY ME STOPPED TO GET TOOD AND

CLOTHING IN THE HOUSE OF A FRIEND

• NEAR

SANCTI SPIRITUS. WHILE THERY WERE THERE THE HOUSE WAS RAIDED

BY THE LOCAL CHIEF OF THE G-2, BERNARDO ARIAS, AND SEVEN MILITIA MEN.

IN THE ENSUING FIGHT MEREJO AND HIS MEN KILLED ARIAS, HIS BODY.

GUARD AND TVO MILITIA MEN. THE REST OF THE MILITIA MEN RAN

AWAY AND MEREJO AND HIS GROUP ESCAPED WITH ONLY ONE MAN WOUNDED.

6 AFTER KILLING. ARIAS MEREJO MADE HIS WAY TO LAS TOSAS

HOPING THAT THE AREA WOULD HAVE COOLED OFF AND THAT HE COULD'

ESTABLISH HIMSELF THERE AND BEGIN, OPERATIONS AGAIN. A FRIENDLY

FARMER TOLD KIN THAT A SPECIALUILITIA FORCE ALMBERING ABOUT

3O0G MEN WAS ROAMING LAS TOSAS LOOKING FOR MEREJO PERSONALLYO

NEREJO DECIDED HE WOULD HAVE TO GIVE UP THE FIGHT IN ESCAMBRAY

AND LEAVE INE AREA ENTIRELY. HE CONTACTED

AN AMDIP/S ORGANIZER IN CHIBAGUAN WITH WHOM MEREJO'S WIFE WAS

HIDING, AND ASKED HIM TO HELP MIM ESCAPE.

PROVIDED TWO

AUTOMOBILES WHICH ENABLED MEREJO, HIS WIFE AND EIGHT OF HIS-WEN

TO GET TO HAVA WHERE THEY WERE HIDDEN BY THE AMDIP/S HAVA 1A

CRGANIZATION WHICK WAS UNDER THE DIPECTION OF A

MEREJO STAYED IN HAVA UNTIL ASCUT 22 MAR UNTIL HE

REPROQUETION DE OPTER THAT TESO TO GITICE I8 PROHIBITED,

---

## Page 4

14-00000

WAVE 5647

2597

PhIL

HAS MOVED TO LA ISBELA ON THE NORTH COAST OF LAS VILLAS WHERE

HE WAS PUT IN THE HANDS OF FISHERMAN WHO VERE TO EFFECT HIS

RECEPTION WITH A BOAT FROM PEPRINE®

To MEREJO AND HIS WIFE STAYED VITH THE FISHERMEN FOR ABOUT

14 DAYS, BEING SHIFTED FROM BOAT TO BOAT, WHILE TRYING TO MAKE

RECEPTIONS WITH BOATS FROM PBPRIME. CONTACT VITH THE BOAT

FROM PBPRIME WAS PREVENTED EACH TIME BY THE PRESENCE OF A GOC

PATROL CRAFT WHICH HUNG AROUND THE RECEPTION AREA AT CAYO

DUTTON. (WAVE COMMENT: MEREJO WAS TO BE EXFILTRATED VIA OPS

CARROT, TUPNIP, RUTABAGA ANDBOVLINE ALL OF WHICH FAILED BECAUSE OF

NO RECEPTION. MEREJO AND THE FISHERMEN BELIEVED THAT THE GOC

PATROL CRAFT WAS AWARE THAT A RECEPTION IN THE DUTTON AREA WAS

TO TAKE PLACE.

8. WHEN THE DUTTON AREA BECAME TOO HOT THEY MOVED TO THE

AREA OF CAYO JUTIA AND TRIED TO SET UP A RECEPTION AT THIS POINT

WAVE COMMENT: DISCUSSION OF THE DIFFICULTIES WITH RECEPTION

AT CAYO DUTTON AND ATTEMPTS TO ARRANGE RECEPTION AT JUTIA ARE

REFLECTED IN THE ANDIP/S WIT TRAFFIC PASSED TO WAVE.?

De ON 25 MARCH WORD WAS RECEIVED BY COURIER FROM HAVA THAT

ANDIP/S'S RADIO IN HAVA HAD BEEN CAPTURED BY THE GOG ALONG

WITH THE FILES AND THAT THREE OF THE FISHERMEN'S NAMES HAD BEEN

COMPROMISED, IT WAS DECIDED THAT THE FISHERMEN WOULD HAVE TO

LEAVE CUBA TO AVOID ARREST. ON 4 APR MEREJO, HIS WIFE AND

• CONSUEGRA LEFT CUBA WITH THE FISHERMEN IN ONE OF THEIR BOATS

ARRIVING IN THE WAVE AREA ON 6 APR.

SERIET

REPROSUCTION

BY OTHER

THAN

IS PROHIBITEO.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CLASSIFIED LESSASE

WAVE 5047

iN 3437

18. FAILURE OF THE RECEPTION AT CAYO DUTTON

APPRARS TO

BE A DEFINITE INDICATION THAT INE GOC HAS BEEN READING THE

ANDIPIS WAS TRAFFIC TO HAVA ALL ALONG AND IS A PRIME EXAMPLE

OF HOW AN INSECURE INDIGENOUS COMMO NET CAN JEOPARDIZE AND BLOY

GENTER OPS WHICH ARE OTHERVISE SECURELY MOUNTED..

END OF MESSAGE.

AEPROSUCTION BY OFTEN TA FEUNT

i PROMISITEO.

---

