# 104-10175-10146

## Page 1

104-10175-10146]

• ме

SECRET

29 March 1962

INES NUNCIER IRON EoFMr•CeDeEErneyreaacaprenLei ERMoCOeSTrenesacarenLe docer madranoce dede la mpoda de dedo deside.

RETUSTITO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HESORANDUM FOR RECORD:

SUBJECT:

: June Sbarp COBB (201-278,841)

1. Mr

C/ww/ras, called to inform the undersigned

that June Sharp COBB was arriving in Washington to appear before the Senaie

Subconittee on Internal Security, at their requent. She la being

asked to sestify; so far as is known, on ber connectiona with che Cuban

Government and her knowledge of Juan AREVALO, former President of Guatenala

and auchor of the book, THE SHARK & THE SARDINES, which Subject translated

Inco Engllab.

2. Mx

jantende: to contact It. Col. Alberi DAVIES, C/IPW/INTZL,

to request permission for the undersigned to contact subjeet if this is

deened necessary and in the beat interests of the Agency.. -The undersigned

discussed tbe matter with Mr.

chis date, and rescrivated a sterile

phone number (ME 8-0469) formerly used by Subject, in the event she should

attempt to contact the undersigned. The undersigned was aiso introduced

to MI. George CAREY, Legal Counsel, who is Interested in the case. MT. CAREY

stated that had we been notified earlier of Subject's invitation by the sub-

comittee, it would have been possible to have had the appearence before the

Subconnittee cancelled.

3. It. Col. DAVIKS has been informed of the above, and of ibe back.

ground of the case by the undersigned, and will la turn advise ME. HARTEY,

C/T7W, of the situation.

Jean I. Plerson

TFW/INIEL/Research

x8903

SECRET

Miracasi sin derrochats dã. dom dio tengo etn aliada dee dodedo men e

201-278841

3/BR

---

