# 104-10167-10001

## Page 1

"-100881209171 mo

104-10167-10001

23 June 1960

Cusdance 8o BerarIao ROULDI fOr DiA Meeting vICh Buseblo MuN

On 26 JUDO 8O DIBEHOO MIAL'O LLOY O8 CIC LaBeTa (copy astached)

ANd ANONT MUAL'O REQUIRS SOS COMMINA RE SO DALES OI TOOD MIEDE

On 22 June Menero.

or IC enlied on ir. Delehbare,

vith NIAl on 26 June of the assached lius of CIC lenders, which was preparad by

MUJAL fOr the purDe of determining fOR HOMILDI bich of these leaders might be

seceptable for ineluaton in a labor front to funetion as part of the MID. Mr.

Molehhardi sald sa vould tle to revier she background on thie before alving 8bea

an enavor.

mot with Mr. Halehhardt and Mies Tbarpe. Wit

reference to MiJAL's tile or l'labor front in connection with the IRD, i.. Relehbardt

unid ve had no kaouledge of any plan for a labor front an such. Mr. Retchhardt

roferred to the agreement botwon I0D and wie that there would be no official cou

tant vith MAt and ROMULDIe conteet vould be continued anly for tbe purpose of

monitoring, and that to the ertent poseible CIA assete vould be used to regato

NUAL a Botivities.

He almo mentioned that Tony YAROIA had sadd be vould sall to

MUJAI fron time to time in order to be informed of what MiJAL vis doing, but he

bad no idea of ineluding MillAh, or any if bia group, in the FID couple%.

Nre"

Belebbardt wald he felt 18 muot be assued that MiJAl le enre of ROMAUIDI's COn-

neetion with the U,B. Government and vould, therefore, interpret RONAUlDI's reply

an orficial approved or dasapproved.

In vier of the above, it. Reichhardt reccuended

*hat ROMAUIDIO respoUse tO MIJAL should be that the cholce of labor leadera to be

affiliated with the IRD 10 an FRD matter and would have to be decided by IRD leadero,

but it was ROULDIe personn. opinion that none of the CIC leadere listed by load

would be acceptable to the IRD because of tbeir affiliation vith the hAIlErA regime.

Ee sugeested that 1f JUJAl pressed ROMANIDI fOr an anaver, be might tell lAl be

should take the matter up with vArdia.

agreed vith the above in principie and thought facts: reply

tO MUTAl shouLd de alonE those linen. Honever, he brought up the matter of vAriale

selection of Rareel OTINO, to le elovely ellied with MIJAl, to make A speaking

dour of latin Anerioa, and mentioned tha: VANQlA had previouly indicated an intereot

In ManOLO FERNANDEZ Of the Artiate Undon. Asth OTERO and YElHANDZ are sneluied on

IJJAWo liot. Mr. Relohhardt sald he did not know VARCNAs reason for seleeting

mano for thie tour, but aince 1t was not to begin in 1l a July, Ar. Droller vould

baro tiwo to alseume the attor again with VARCA and take some notion 1t It waa

deolded that OIRO do too elonely nilled with MiJAl to be effeotive with latin

Amarioan labor movemento, Mr.

Tremked that OTERO de voll know to Labor

movonenta in other Inbin Amarten countrien, but ho 1o not an esfeative sponker and

1s = Known MIYARTETA:

Deartha Tharpe

ma/volitical notion

SN"

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

lot of or Mistere

4/BR

---

