# 104-10162-10135

## Page 1

104-10162-10135

copy

-...

TRANSMITTAL

OF

OSEINPORMATION REPORT

CRIG.

Darge cotazgioles

UNIT

EXI.

%71755/1n:61/Rбports

-5547

DATE

19 Jure

196

CONEIRMATION COPiES

WH/SA 11

INTCAMATION COPIES

CLASSAFICATION

091

SECRET

ROUTING

Ja13 i 32:54

TDCS DB-3/661,897

CI:OPS, CI/IC, FI, FJ/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA 2, CA/PEG, DODS, IE 4, NH 24

DATE BISTAISUTED

19 June 1964

DISSEMINATION

SH.R

4JSA/ST

SH• Ir..

JIH PACY L TTHTE DR 4ISJOS

1SA'SC/HE DET 2/N2 T KH NEXT 1

SN/LOB

2 WAVE

SAYCT

ZNH. 2/CR 2 TRHTTEGU ITNE/S.RLI

FaTTIFE

pli/ l,i

212/5

AN/StOR THE/IAODR

EVALUATICN

RECLESTEN

STATE

ARMAY

NAVY

HANGING INSTRUCTIONS

AIl

PRECECENCE

XI BOUTINE

BASES CN (RD. UT. , PC")

BARR-1685

(IN-09925)

SP (AUSKIRL-1)

Liaison *

CSDO: BASIC CABLE WAS NOT SENT TO DCI

REQUEST FOR REZAY TO MAVE, SJOS, AND MINA ATTACHED

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/COXTROLLED DISSEN

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

Alvarez-201

AUTHENTICATING OF FICEL

COOIDINATING OFFICERDO

CLAISFICATION

SECRET

PNEPEE PALL BO MN1

WH./SA/SO/lenry Hecksher (ta draft)

GNLAST

J03

foreiH/SA/Intel

ICOFYNO.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

2/gк

---

## Page 2

14-00000

!

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CULTROLED DISSEY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• ROLTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTEY CUBA/NICARAGLA

DATE OF 17 JUNE 1964

INFO.

TDCSDB-3/661,897

DESTR 19 JUNE 1964

- SUBJECT.

TRIP OF THE "SILVIA" FROM MIAMI TO NICARAGUA

UNDER COXHAYD OF CUBAN EXILE SANTIAGO ALVAREZ,

PLACE &

DATEACO, UNITED STATES, XIANI (19 JEVE 1964)

SCreCE

REF

IN - 09925

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL A LOCAL LAW-ENFORCEMENT OFFICER WHO IS WELL ACQUAINTED WITH MARITILE

MATTERS IN FLORIDA.

HE HAS BEEN A CONSISTEYTLY RELIABLE REPORTER O.$

THE PLANS AND ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN BOAT

OPERATIONS.

I. THE "SILTIA", A MOTOR LAUNCH FORMERLY KNONN AS THE "EL 1

POLO", LEFT MI-VI, FLORIDA, 17 JUNE 1964 AT 11:00 P.X. WITH A CREY

OF 10 KEN UNDER THE CONAND OF SANTIAGO ALVAREZ, JR. (HEADQUARTERS

COUVENT: ALVAREZ, WHO WAS A LEADER OF THE COMANDOS I ANTI-CASTRO

GROUP, HAS JOINED MANUEL ARTINE'S ANTI-CASTRO GROUP.) THE BOAT IS

SCHEDULED TO GO TO NICARAGUA.

2. THE "SILVIA" IS EXPECTED TO ARRIVE AT KEY NEST, FLORIDA,

OM 18 JUNE AT APPEOXILATELE 6:00 P.H. FOR REFUELING.

3. PIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, STATE, ARKY, MATT, AIR.

END OF MESSAGE

STATL/100

SECRET

DEA

ARAT/ACTI MAVY

All JC?

REFCISCLANT

cistso

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEN

SECDES DeSA MIC MICEXIN OO ONE OR ONE 00

DDI

FBI

---

