# 104-10185-10022

## Page 1

104-10185-10022

SECRET

TO:

FROM:

51/0/0p0J03

F1/0 Run

24, Feb El

DATE

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B.

A NEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

*IIN THE LIMITED ADENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REGUEST, FU/D IS UNABLE TO

SETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS IAFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D.

F1/C HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A COMTINUING SEARCH WAS

PEQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL PE REPORTED TO

YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

€.

xx

SUBJOCT: BESTA, Lamberto

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

1. 80e the following items:

a-Stato,

Fome, Dsp-No, 134, 15 Jul 53 CONFIDENTIAL.

aState, Milan, Dsp. No. 39, 22 Jul. 53 CONFID JIT IAL.

Co State, Milan, Dsp. No. 205, 14, Jan 54 CONFIDiNTIAL.

2.

The Itens cited above pertain to SUbJ:CI's Illegal export activities

With the Soviet bloe and to SUN CI's pro-lomunist espionage

activities.

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE

SUSJECT IS DO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOMING CANCELLATION

VOTICE ECAPLETED, SHOULE SE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIED YOUR FILE ÇE PUELE SMEETS FRECUENTLY, AND SEND TO FILE THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING MIME CHECK, PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FIÉD'S

FACILITIES NITO COSTRUING SEARCHES FOR INCRSMATIDS THAT IS MOS REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

H1ME

OFISE DESIÇUITOR

EXTENSICH

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

FESTA, Lamberto

3. ALIASES. MARIANT SPELLINGS, GTC HUMBERS. ETC.

3. BIRTA DATE

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Owns ET ort-InDort fir LASE (OF INEEX)

In Milen

8. MILITARY SERVICE

SERVICE DEM, ECUNTRY

PAST OCCUPATIONS

SPECIALTY

ACTIVITY

RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST NO 103666

20 Feb 61

FATE OF RECUEST.

REQUEST FRON

03

ORIGINAT ING OFFICER

F1/0/0p8

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

DOOM, BUILDING

3661

EXTENSION

14, HAS CONTINUINE SEERCH REQUESTED?

¡SOLTYPE OF RECUEST

•FIRST TIME SUMMITTEO

_ADDITIONAL DATA

COvEp

io.

INTEREST IN SUBJECT

_ESPIGGAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

XOG OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

IT. "REPTION REQUIRED

• LOCATION

DATES

LOCATION

PATES

10. DESCRIFTING

iMEIGHT)

• (WEIGHT)

11. SPOUSE (IF MIFE, GUIE RUNDEN LAME)

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF INNEZIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

(EYES)

(ma19)

(FacE)

(OPHER)

13. OTHER SIGNIFICANT CS'S (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

ATTSCH ENTES SMEETS DMEM SEEDED

INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

1025. 501 vos Pocio 1

SECRET

SEE CS1-10-7

---

