# 104-10192-10366

## Page 1

104-10192-10366

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

CLASSIFIED MESSAGI

SECRET

-

ROUTING

Classe.

34

•° 3610000

DIRECTOR

FROM: IMWAVE

DOP, ADOP,

SOo 6, CA Z, CA/PEG, CA/PRUA

01/000.61/10 2,

c1/ps, r1,

11/0, ro/INT 2,

PI/AN,

on 7, 00/1 co, 10/61 2 10, 10/NE. CO, VR.

MICROFILMED

APR 2-0 1964:

DOC MICRO. BAR

TOCS

G..

MAR

27 21212,

64

IN

498=70

P

Y

DIR INFO LANT

RACK-BARR CIT WAVE 4243

BEC H8nG

INTEL TYPIC

SUPRATA, AMRAZZ-T TELCON TO AMBLINK-1 LATE EVENING 25 MARCH 1964,

UNNUMPERED, REPORT DATED 26 MARCH, AMRAZZ-I WAS NOTIFIED OF THE

MEETING ENANTONIO VEGIANA BLANCHE, HEAD OF ALPHA-66.

..SEE ALSO YEG-1836 REPORTING LAST MEETING OF JURE DIRECTORATE.

RIPT. PEEASE INDEX FILEQ 27/19352

REPORT ELASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRYS . CUBA

SUBJ: ALLIANCE DIRECTORATE MEETING SCHEDULED FOR 27-29 MARCH 64

DỌI :

25, MARCH 1964

ROUTING

FACA •

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 MARCH 1964)

INITIA

сомнени

NO DIASTUIN AMAN• PE THE ATTACHRO

TO PORTIO. "

..MIE HAS BEEN

RID/AN

RID/MTS

.:CY PENDING

MADE OUT:

R

40

Ared

8-110÷10

SiSSa

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

Y

RO: TINE

PRIORITY

ANT:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

RELEASING 1NO

-X

LIAISON:

S

iJS:

40j 1389

COUGTION

---

## Page 2

104-10192-10366

CLASSIPIED MESSAGE

SEGRIF'T

1r70 g

FROM

АСТОРЬ

PAGE

2

IN 49727

TOCS

UFG-4848

REF& UFQ-4836

SOURCE: UNITED STATES CITIZEN WHO WAS A FORMER RESIDENT OF

HABANA WHO MAINTAINS CONTACTS WITH THE LOCAL CUBAN COMMUNITY.

HE IS AN EXPERIENCED OSSERVER AND REPORTER, HE OSTAINED THIS

INFORMATION FROM A CUBAN EXILE WHO IS AN OFFICIAL OF THE

MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF

THE PEOPLE). AND WHO, FOR THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS, MAS REPORTEO

ACCURATELY ON THE ACTIVITIES OF HIS ORGANIZATION AND ITS AFFILIATES,

AND ON EXILE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN GENERAL.

H1 COLANENTI

Toes

PRECEOtICE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASMO MO

DATE DISTRISUTEDI

BASEO OME

LIAISOR

SECREI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Ha

---

## Page 3

104-10192-10366

NỌI !

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTEL ENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

TOCS

DISTR

SUBJECT -

PLACE &

•DATE ACO.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALI

REF

TIELO REPORT NO.

Cat det a tin ensions

+ 902990 скіВ

211. 2112:44

ON 25 MARCH 1964, ELOT GUTIERREZ MENOrO, HEAD OF THE

SEGUNDO FRENTE MACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SFNE, SECOND NATIONAL

FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY) CALLED A MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVES OF

THE SFNE-MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP,

REVOLUT ICNARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE) -ALPHIA 66 "ALLIANCE"

THE

MEETING WAS. TO BE HELD IN MIAMI CN 27, 28 AND 29 MARCH.

WAS ASSUMED THAT AFTER THESE MEÉTINGS, WHICH WILL BE HELD IN THE HOME

OF GUTIERREZ, HE, GUTIERREZ WILL BEGIN TO MOUNT OPERATION "OMEGA, "

A PLAN TO INFILTRATE MEN AND ARMS INTO CURA, NO EXACT TIME

1 meeral opens alone eRection Do Malianal Dolores al De Voltas Blaze picnia she trantar ol sho replorero Late

ACA TAJ aDd 791, IDA traDamlion or retelalled al thIeD lA: ROy maDar la da ManuiDors persoo la probiblind by I

thou

CONFIDENTIAL

сон в.

38A18/INR DiA ARMY/ACSA

MAVY AlL SCS SECDeS NSA MIC AID, USLA OCI ONE OCA ORR OO

R

P

1071389

• RI COPY-

RI. COPY

---

## Page 4

104-10192-10366

sO 1-10 1201

IN Dioner

PAGE Z

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCE

WAS SET, JUST "ANYTIME AFTER MONDAY THE 38TN OF MARCH."

THE MAIN TORIC! OF THE MELTING PROBABLY WILL BE INSTRUCTIONS

FROM GUTIERREZ TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS WHO REMAIN.

IN MIAMI CONCERNING THEIR CONDUCT ONCE GUTIERREZ DISAPPEARS EROM

MIAMI, GUTIERREZ PROBABLY WILL INSTRUCT THEM TO REMAIN SILENT

UNTIL HE COMMUNICATES WITH THEM FROM INSIDE CUBA:

1. SON 25 MARCH 1964 DR. RAUETCHIBAS Y DE RIBAS ROCAFALL NAS

IN NEW YORK CITY EN ROUTE TO PUERTO RICO TO ATTEND THE

"LAST JURE MÉETING. * (FIELO COMMENT; THE SAME SOURCE

PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA: CUBANA (JURE,

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY UNITY) PLANNED TO HOLD ITS LAST EXECUTIVE.

MEETING IN PUERTO RICO ON 29 AND 38 MARCH JUST BEFORE ITS CUBAN

INFILTRATION OPERATION, THE INFORMATION WAS DISSEMINATED IN

UFG -4836. 8

4. FIELD DISSEM: COMAWESTFOR, CINCSO, CINCLANT, MIAMI

REPS FBI, STATE, COAST GUARD, I & NS, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS.

(END OF MESSAGE)"

•

CONFIDENTIAL

---

