# 104-10178-10065

## Page 1

104-10178-10065

# as

BETURN TACIA

Baokground Use Only

Pa. Not Reproduca

ROUTING

CLASSIBIO MESSAGE

'43.

_SECRET

FROM.

ACTION

INO

MERVE

OUSA D.

ADiCI FE AD/ME.

SECRET 2781257

2T JAN S353Z 65 TN 67574

DIR INFO LANT

BARR

_CITE WAVE 755%

• INTEL TYPIC

217

21-10

~ SUPOATA: ANTOD-I FROM OPEN LETTER AMÓOG-I DATED 21 JAN MAILEO

•(SDOM 22 LAN RECEIVED MIAMI 25 JAN. POUCHING INVENTORY LIST.

RIDE INDEX FILED 2701247

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA DOMINICAN REPUBLIG

SUBUS PLOT OF JOSE RICARDO RABEL NUNEZ AND OTHER CREW MEMBERS TO •

TAKE COMMANO OF JURE'S MIN VENUS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIS

99

DO18 21 LANUARY 65

PADAS UNITEO STATES, MIAMI (26 JANUARY 1965)

UFG 6582

SOURCES A YOUNG CUBAN EXILE. THIS INFORMATIION WAS OBTAINED FROM

W COMMENT.

DO FISTELENATICN OF THE AT AIMED

MEL RASE BY THE ACTION UMIT.

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRINUTED

SECRET

TDCS

TROUTNE

BASED ON

LAISON

SANT U898

• AтE

ZIER

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRAI

FOm

ACrON

NO

IN SISTE PAGE 2

A PERSON WAC IS WITH MANUEL RAY RIVERE, EUT WAUSE RELIASILITY IS

UNDERTER-SINED.

COMMENT

TDC$

THOUTINE

RASCO ON

_PRIORITY

RELLASNG I WO

DATE DESTRABUTIO

SECRET

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY CUBA

DATEOR 21 JANUARY 1965

INFa

CENTRAL INPELLIGENCE AGINCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE:

TDCS DB-913/00299-63

DISTR. 27 JANUARY •1963

- SUBECT

PLOT OF JURE MEMBERS TO TAKE COMMAND OF JURE'S

MV VENUS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

PLACE &

DATE ACO. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 JANUARY 1965)

SOURCE.

REP

16. 67584°

FIELO REPORT NO. UFG-8582

APPRAISAL A YOUNG CUBAN FXILE WHO OBTAINED THE INFORNATION FROM A PERSON THO

IS WITH MANUEL RAY, BUT WHOSE RELIABILITY IS UNDETERUINED.

1. AS OF 21 JANUARY 1965, JOSE RICARDO RABEL NUÑEZ'AND MANUE

VARELA CASTRO WERE PLOTTING TO TAKE COMMAND OF THE MIN VENUS. A

118-FO0T PANAMANIAN-REGISTERED VESSEL BELONGING TO MANUEL RAY RIVER®,

LEADER OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

JUNTA): IT IS BELIEVED THAT LUIS POSARA AND PEPIN CARBONEL ARE

AMONG THE PLOTTERS BECAUSE BOTH MEN WERE DISPATCHED TO MIAMI BY

RABEL. VARELA ALSO WENT TO MIAMI.

2. RABEL, THE SKIPPER OF THE VESSEL, AND VARELA HAVE COME: T9

THE CONCLUSION JHAT RAY DOES NOT INTEND TO INFILTRATE INTO CURA

RABEL CLAIMS THAT 'RAY HAS DONE NOTHING GUT GIVE THE MEN PROMISES

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSI

STATEIINA

ABBAT/ACSI

AIR ICE

ADCI. 2

CIA/NACC

JA MIC XIL UNLA OCE ONE OCH OLA:A

BORDER PATROL

CUSTOMS

COAST GUARI

---

## Page 4

COSTROLLED DISSEA

CONFIDENTIAL

ПРО 1-48 600)

IN - 67574

TDCS DR-315/

00283-65

ABOUT INFILTRATING. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: TDCSDB-315/00209-65

DATED 20 JANUARY REPORTED ON THE POSTPONEMENT OF PROPOSED INFILTRA-

TION INTO CULA, AND THE ATTITUDE OF JURE NEN TOMARD RAY.)

53697 - 19: 300-

3RADRE AND VARSLA HAVE TAKEN A COMPLETE iNVENTORY OF TIS

BEAPONS, AMMUNITION, AND SUPPLIES AT TIS BASE AVAILABLE TO JURE.

AGUIRRE (ENU) IS IN CHARGE OF SUPPLIES.

4.. RADEL SAID TO OPERATIONS ARE PLANNED FOR THE NORTI COAST

OF CUBA. (SOURCE COMMENT: THEY MAY POSSIBLY BE GOING TO INFILTRATE

PABLO FERNANDEZ OR RODRIGUEZ AND MAXINO DELGADO, TWO GUAJIROS WHO

ARE WITIL THE GROUP IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THEY ALSO WANT TO

MAKE THO OR THREE COMMANDO RAIDS.)

5. PIELD DISSEM: CINCIANT, CINCSO, MIAMI REPS OF STATE, FBI,

IANS, BONDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, AND USCG. (ALSO SENT,

16-10

END OF MESSAGE

• .

• CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CABY

---

