# 104-10103-10125

## Page 1

104-10103-10125

SECRET:

26 November 1960

Whos

1

wire

assigne

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Preliminary Debriefing Report on AMPANIC-7

Activities in Cuba .

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

I: The substance of this preliminary report covers debriefing sessions

held with AMPÁNIC-T from T through 15 Novenber 1960. Both Mir. Pekich and the

undersigned participated in these debriefing periods. the pertinent aspects

of these debriefing sessions are sumarized into four specific categories:

AMPANIC-7's operational activities in Cuba from his initial

arrival in Cuba 5 August until his departure 5 Hovember 1960.

b. Internal assets developed in Cuba for future operational

use.

c. Problems encountered by A-? while operating in Cuba.

d. Projected

future assignment in Cuba.

2. Mir. James Pekich, who was AYPANIC-7's case officer during bis initial

training in Washington, was contacted by phone from Miami by subject on

7 lovember.

Subject reported that he had arrived in the U.S. by boat 5. Nov.

and was planning to leave that afternoon by plane for Washington.

A room was

booked at the Washington Hotel in anticipation of A-7's arrival thet evening.

At approximately 1800 hours, A-T called Mr. Pekich on the agent phone from the

lashington airport to announce his arrival and tas directed to go to the hotel,

where subject was subsequently contacted by lir. Pekich and the undersigned.

In a highly emotional state which vartly stems from his recent escape from

Cuca. In his initial emotional outburst, A-T stated that we had not lived up

to our cormitments to support his activities in Cuoa; that he didn't like the

idea of considering himself as being expendable; that he was not sure why we

sent him to Cuba in the first place if we had no intentions to support his

petten it be o dotate a cocaing without do g to down con-

Alter Mr. Pelich succeeded in quieting don A-T following this initial

outburst, A-7 was first asked to describe how he managed to get out of Cuba

without utilizing our channels to effect this exfiltration.

---

## Page 2

de

= 2

Escape Story

A-7 stated thai on 18 October he had sent an urgent nessage

to his Hava contact (AIRE-1) informing him that his situation was

precarious and that he must get out of Cuba es soon as possible.

cording to A-7 his Agency contact vas unable to provide any definite

assurance that his departure from Cuba could be expedited. He then

his operational contact

attempted to lay on unflateral encensents to this cad with first

and later his mother-in-

lar introduced A-7 to al

on to eat in in getting out of bleate on a on tho

nexy ten days. A-T's plans to get out of Cuba began to take shape;

Introduced him to

surgeon who operates his own clinic in Havana.

l a plastic: 06,00

On I November a negro

by the hame of

drove go A-7's safehouse

and took him to us own wuse Located on d4th Street 23-25)in Marianao.

On the morning of 2 November at 1100 hours,

arrived at the

Negro's house and told A-? that he pianned to Leavelfor Key West

Florida 5 Novenber and would arrange to smuggle A-T out of Cuba by

hiding him in the motor room of his yacht. Arrangements were made

between the principals for A-7 to visit the yacht 4 November to in-

spect his proposed hiding place on the yacht. In the interim period,

A-7 stated that he began to suspect that he may have fallen into a

trap and told the Negro that he was returning to the U.. S. to bring

Tony VARONA back with him to Cuba. AT felt this was a good girmick

to use in the event

PLanned to turn him over to the G-2, 06

After inspecting his hiding place on the yacht, A-T told

he

didn't like the idea of hiding in the motor room and sungested that

night (4 Novenber) A-T stayed at the home of

house close to the beach at Santa Maria del far Located aboit

25 Kilometers. from Havana. On 5 lovember at 0530 hours, A-7 began

his lono strin in rough, choppy vaters and was finally sighted by

yacht, there he was taken on board the vessel.: (4-7

states that he was completely exhausted when he was picked up by the

vessel).

racht ("SORTIA"

_ piloted by

reached

Key west, Florida 5 lovember at 1445 hours.

4-y managed to slip avay

during the refueling of the yacht before the custon officials arrived

and immediately took off for liani. Upon reaching Miami, A-7 vent

directly to his wife'g home for a reunion with his family.

In query-

ing A-7 further on ho

managed to leave Cuba without any

sorins instacles placea In mus path by the 608, 1-7. stated that

cold him that he received official approval for this trip-

to return a stolen vessel from his yacht club, (Casino Espanol

Havana, waich was being held for hir by American authorities ind

Key West. Moreover,

cold A-T that he planned to leave the

36

020141/

---

## Page 3

3

об

'"SONIA") (worth about $25, 000) in Key WEst, Florida, which he hoped to put

0p: for sale at some future date. (It vould appear that

ras afraid

that all such vessels as his would subsequently be nationalized by the Castro

regime. Prior to his return to Cubar

planned to stay at the West

Drive Harbor Island,) Miami - Tel: (PL

I-5310.)

об.

Efforts to debrief A-7 on his operational activities in Cuba were

sonewhat futile in this initial meeting in view of his uisettled emotional

state. His primary concern appeared to be his wife and his rather strained

relationship with his in-laws, who were now residing in Miami.

In this con-

nection, it should be pointed out that this emotional state appeared to sten,

In part, from his inherent suspicions that his wife (21 years of age and rel-

atively attractive) was being unfaithful to him. All Indications are, however,

that A-T has no real basis for these suspicions; other than those conjured up

in his owe mind.

In any case, he requested i1 it might not be possible to wire-

tap his wife's house in Miami, so that he could have daily reports on her activi-

ties. While no promises were made, A-T was assured we would attempt to l00k

Into this possibility, once we had more definite information that there were

some grounds for his suspicions.

(Note: Subsequent discussions with Security

Office revealed that a wire-tap of A-T's house was a major project in itself

and impossible to accomplish at this time without tieing up considerable

personnel.) A-T was later told this after we assured him that his suspicions

were groundless where his wife was concerned.

5. Following this initial meeting with A-7, it was apparent to both

ir. Pekich and the undersigned that: time would be needed to restore agent's

confidence in our capability to support his efforts in any future projected

assigment in the field. Moreover, A-7's emotional state, which aypears to

stem from his problems with his in-laws and his concern about leaving his wife

alone, wust be fully resolved before attempting to dispatch him again.

6.. In later debriefing session held from 8 to 15 November with A-7,

considerable more light was thrown on the nature and scope of his operational

activities in Cuba.

As previously indicated in paragraph 1 of this report,

A-7's activities are sumarized as follows:

AMPANIC-7 Operational Activities In Cuba:

In line with his projected mission to organize resistance groups

in Havana and Pinar del Rio for mounting sabotage operations against

key target installations and assasination of prominent Cuban Communist

members in the Castro entouraze, A-T appears to have made some progress

with a view to establishing some degree of rapport in the furtherance

of his own personal objectives.. It is significant to note that. ir

a period of approximately 5 weeks, A-7 made contact with over 42 indi-

viduals, who represented various anti-Castro groups operating in the

Havana and Pinar del Rio areas.

A-7. frankly admitted that he had spread

himself out too thin in this respect and that in many cases he should

SEGRET

SIRN

---

## Page 4

118

Eiti

FiC.

SECHET

- 4-

have employed cut-outs instead of attempting to contact certain

individuals himself. Individual meetings vere also held by A-? with

AMPANIC - 5,

and NRUNG-1 with a view to establishing

some degree of rapport and coordination of activities in the area.

In this connection, A-? claims he turned over a number of his assets

over to ANPANIC-5, prior to his movement to the ESCAMBRAY, where he

was subsequently picked up by G-2.

b. Internal Assets Developed in Cuba for Future Operational Use:

In attempting to sift out specific assets developed by A-T during

his activities in Havana, three of the more prominent individuals with

whom A- wes in direct contect should be listed.

(1) 0

P owner of the (Auto-Mert) and Auto-Centro)

(Garages ai lavan.

or planning the

selection of suitable IZ's and Dz's in both Pinar del Rio

and Oriente provinces, location of safehouses in Havana and

use of his garages for storage of arms and military equipment,

which A-7 anticipated would be dispatched to him.

a lawyer by profession, who has unlimite

contacts in Pinar ded Rio and who was working closely with A

io form a guerrilla group in the Sierra de los Organos!6 (TARDO ra

also selected to handle the propaganda for the "Cuba Libre" group

being organized by A-T inside Cuba.

(3)

a Cuban national who had served

in the U.S. Army, and sno also rought in the Escambrays against Batis

claimed he had a force of 150 men at his disposal

and was planning to use them in a guerrilla action against Castro

forces in the Pinar del Rio area. Moreover, once proper materiel

support in the form of arms and other military equipment vas made

available to him by A-7, be felt he could marshal over a thousand

men in this area.

(4) In addition to the above assets, A-" indicated, that intri

(knorm to him as

rendered him considerable assistance in moving sécurely about Havan:

In the course of his operational contacts. In the case of AMIRE+10)

1-7 highly praised his abilities as a highly capable Case Officer,

and he feared for his personal safety. He suggested that AMtRi-Lo

should be brought back to the U.S. for a rest period, before C-2

picked him up.

(5) Finelly, ANPUG-1 who was trained in sabotage techniques in the

U.S. and was later assigned to 1-7, was listed by A-7 as an asset, .

who could be chenneled into möre specific operations, once available

materiel was forthcoming. He felt, however, that he and AMPUG-1

were at considerable odds on certain aspects of conducting operatioi

5p/

---

## Page 5

SECRET

= 5-

in Havana, but felt he could resolve these differences upon

his on return.

Problems Encountered by A-7 while Operating In Cuba:

Some of the more significant problens encountered by A-7

during the course of his operations in Havana are as follows:

Security: In this connection, A-T stated that despite

the disguise given him, he had to be constantly on the alert

from the danger of being picked up by G-2 or Castro police

during the course of his numerous operational contacts.

He

sited several examples where he believed he was under sur

veillance by the opposition and subseguently succeeded In allud-

ing this surveillance.

He complained that his disguise, (hair-

piece and mustache) rapidly deteriorated in the Havana Climate

and as a consequence he was forced to abandon this disguise towe.

the latter part of his stay in Havana. Similarly, he was forced

to change his quarters continually, by moving from one safehouse

to another as a security precaution, since he felt that it was

generally known in Cuban circles that he was operating in the

vellance of castro security Iorces.

(2) Materiel Support: In the course of these debriefing

sessions, one of A-7's chief complaints was thet

despite his

urgent messages sent through his cut-out (AMIRE 1) to the Statio

that arms and otber military equipment were Sorely needed by'

his groups in Havana and Pinar del Rio, no action was taken to

Implement his requests. As a result, A-? felt he was losing fac

with his followers and this was one of the primary factors for

returning to the States to discuss this aspect with Headquarters

(3) Need for Direct Commmication: A-7 stated that without the

services of a W/T operator who could be in direct communication

with us, he is fully convinced that any subsequent return to Cuc

in an operational capacity would be ineffectual. Hence, this

would be one of the conditions laid on us-that when he returned,

a W/I operator would be assigned to him personally.

Projected Future Assignment of A-7 in Cuba: Predicated on the assur

tion that A-T will be sent back to Cuba in the relatively near future, botin

Mssrs. Pekich and Petore feel that his most significant contribution can be

made in the Pinar del Rio area, where he appears to have known assets in the

hills. This, however, does not preclude A-T from also operating in Havana in

developing sabatoge operations with AMPUG-1, whom we assume will cooperate:

with A-T despite their differences in how these operations should be conducte

Moreover, should the AMYUM complex decide to move into other provinces of

Cuba vere military action is to take place, A-T would appear to be the logic

SENDET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

- 6 =

choice in taking over the operations in this area against Castro targets.

In any case, a decision has been reached that AT should not be dispatched

without a trained W/T operator who can be relied on to work closely on

operations with A-7 inside the country.

Case Officer Comments: Despite A-f's tendencies to operate on

a grandiose scale, his disappointment in the lack of support received on his

initial mission to Cuba; and his display of emotional instability at times,

it is believed that his efforts can be properly channeled to work effectively

for us In Cuba..

His motivation appears to stem from his personal ambitions.

to make his mark on this counter-revolution against Castro, where he can

assure himself of a priminent position in the luture government to be formed

in Cuba after the overthrow of the Castro regime. A-7 has imagination and

the will to succeed. His weakness is his inability to hide his personal

embitions fron others who may work with him and who may have altogether alf-

ferent motivations and sense of values.

Hence, it is believed that AT

will encounter problems in handling peole recruited or assigned to him in

the course of his activities inside the country.

AMPUG-1 can be sited as

a good example, where a clash of personalities has apparently already taken

place.

In view of this; A-T will have to be dealt with firmly and must be

convinced that the success or failure of his projected mission will depend

on his ability to develop confidence and loyalty among his followers once hè

is inside the country again.

Similarly, A-T must resolve his personal proble

dealing with his wife and In-laws, which has had an adverse effect on him

personally since his return, and may affect his operations inside Cuba.

next several weeks will, therefore, need be devoted to re-establish A-7's

confidence in our ability to support his efforts in Cuba, once he is sent

back, and working out his family problems to obviate any adverse psycholo-

gical effect which may be detrimental to his operations in Cuba.

JOFIN.

PETER

WH/4/PM/oRS

SEGRET

---

