# 104-10112-10242

## Page 1

104-10112-10242

•кам

+- 7o

STANDARO FORM NO. 64

We Are For

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

CRIDF/ID/3

..DATE: 2 February 1962

HO OLNUAITE

FROM

TOBIASSEN

SUBJECT:

CROZIER, ROss

#172569

7

Re the correspondence commencing with the memo dated 15 September

1961 to Career Agent Panel concerning assignment of Subject to JMWAVE.

For the past 2-3 months I have made numerous inquiries to WH/4 Security

regarding this matter in an attempt to get the appropriate WH officials

to clarify the sitiation as to whether or not the use of the Subject at

JMWAVE had been approved by some appropriate"Panel" without getting OS

approval, and also to have a request initiated in this regard to oS.

On this date, (

CPD, called me and wanted to know

the status of any security approval action. I advised her that we never

received a request for approval of Subject as indicated and I asked her

If she knew whether or not the use had been approved elsewhere. She said

her records indicated the use had been approved bakk in September by the

Agent's Panel and she would send me a memo concerning this right away. I

restated to her the fact that the use of Subject as indicated appears to

be in violation of former OS restrictions as set out on 2 March 1960. She

- ..

STANDARD FORM NO. EA

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENI

TO

DATE:

:

FROM

:

SUBJECT:

advised that apperently. the use of Subject was approved by the Agent's

Panel we to bette dated one i o a vasion requesting

"concurrence" by OS in Subject's use has not been acted upon to now in as

much as it was desired, first, to determine how and when the use of Subject

---

## Page 2

advised that apparently the/use of Subject was approted

the Agent's

uch es it was desired, first, to/determine how and when the lase of Subject

it JIMWAVE was approved

NETURN TO CIA

Marground Use Only

• De boi Reproduce

---

