# 104-10147-10432

## Page 1

104-10147-10432

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT Opl

FROM

DD/OT

1025 Cotc

(SECRET SENSITIVE

INTERNAL

USEW ONLY

E CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

interview

With Staff of

the House Select

Committee on

on Assassinations

(HSCA)

(S)

'EXTENSIO!

3185

DATE

OLC 4: 78-53 %0

16 October 19

OFFICER'

INITIALS

COMMENTS

whom

Dr

SECRET

Offe

Mrs Scott Breckinridge

NOLC

RM 6D5317 Hqs

RECEIVED

HSCA

10

11.

12.

13

14.

15.

21791

FORM

3-62.

I USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET/SENSITIVE

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

16 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

Edward Ryan

Deputy Director for Operations Training

SUBJECT:

Interview With Staff of the House Select

Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

(S)

1. (S) On 16 October 1978, at the request of

Mr. Scott Breckinridge, I met with Messrs. Robert Blakey

and

Gary Cornwell of the staff of the HSCA. Mr. Blakey

said that he had some questions for me that his staff

Seckir the set for m

had wanted him to ask.

2.

(S) Mr. Blakey wanted me to explain the functions

of Division D, which I did in general terms, identifying

liaison with foreign SIGINT services,

procurement, and covert intercept as

cryptographic

missions.

its three principle

respect to a possible duplication in

gen i take no nin in their uncy

their functions.

specifically asked me what CI/SIG was. I said I had not

heard

that designation, but presumably the "SIG" stood

for SIGINT, and I went on to explain the complementary

of the CI Staff and Division D in the investigation of

illegal agents using radios.

3.

(S) Mr. Blakey said that Division D had opened a

file on Lee Harvey Oswald, and observed that he couldn't

see how the functions of Division D, as I'd described them,

would explain this:

I said I was not aware that Division D

had done such

a thing, and that the only reason I could

imagine for such an action would be if Oswald had been

seeking employment as an intercept operator, but even in.

that case, the Office of Communications, rather thar

• Division D, would have held the file, since all intercept

personnel at that time were in that Office. Mr. Blakey

asked whether the CI Staff would have had a file on Oswald,

and I said only if he were suspected of working for a hostile

intelligence service.

SECRET/SENSITIVE

E2 IMPDAT

CL BY 050473

---

## Page 3

SECRET/SENSITIVE

SUBJECT: Interview With Staff of the House Select

Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) (S)

4.

(S) Mr. Blakey observed that every organization

has its tornal, on-paper structure, but it also has a

determines how the ructure, which is the one that really

organization works.

He can understand

CIA's formal organization, but the second one is more

difficult for him to comprehend. Speaking of Bill Harvey,

he asked whether I knew him. I

said I did.

This led

to a discussion

about how it could have happened that Harvey,

as Chief, Division D, could have been engaged in operationa.

activity which seemed to have nothing to do with Division D'

responsibilities, as a service element of CIA. I said that

when I came into the Agency in 1948, Harvey was already a

very senior and respected officer:

he had a very close relationship with Mr. Helms, and if the

• sen that hon:

that in subsequent years

latter had given Harvey some special assignment, Harvey could

easily have carried

a compartmented

way alongside

his regular duties.

I pointed out that since Division D

itself was a compartmented activity, it would not surprise.

anyone if the Chief of the Division were handling personally

an

especially compartmented activity. Mr. Blakey wanted

to know how Harvey could have gotten personnel and funds

to carry out his assignment. I said he would probably

borrow the personnel in the name of the Director, and he

would get his funds in the regulation manner, probably from

an account under the Director's control.

But he might not

need either: he might use people who would simply handle

his needs in addition to their regular assignments.

5.

(S) Mr. Blakey asked me if I knew who QJWIN was.

I said I of course knew the crypt from its appearance in

the Rockefeller Commission Report, and that "QJ" was a

digraph for a

Station source, agent or operation

and I knew QJWIN was aL

_ Mr. Blakey did not

pursue the question.

(S) Mr. Blakey asked what kind of files Division D

kept, and

I said they were all devoted to the operational

activities of the Division:

that, except for our own

personnel, there were no files on

individuals. Mr. Cornwell

asked if Harvey had had any personal files and I said that

if he had, he had not left them behind in Division D, and I

doubted very much if he had left any behind when he left the

Agency. The HSCA staffers had no further questions.

Edward Rya

SECRET/SENSITIVE

---

