# 104-10186-10191

## Page 1

7104-10186-10191

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Aldo RIVERE (Allas "Bromo Seltzer") DATE DISTR

CS CI-316/00628-65

10 Februarg 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF

RETURNTO CIA

INFO.

PLACE &

wa shineton

D. Co

Background Use Only

DATE ACO.

1965

Do Not Reproduce

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

he following report is one of a series containing personalit

nformation prouided by the source and includes supplementa

information from the records of this Agency.

t 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any o

he individuals mentioned In the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

the Departamento de

— DSE) 1n 1959.

since 1956 änd has not seen him since 1959, he does recall that

RIVERE was sent to the Soviet Union to study aviation and that

he might now possibly be in the Cuban Air Force.

good

friend of Norberto HERNANDEZ Cubelo (see CSCI-316/01239-64,

12 October 1964) •

RIVERE, & Caucasian, was born between 1935 and 1940.

Is about six feet tall, weighs 150 pounds, and has a slim build.

Headquarters Comment&

The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on RIVERE.

п сП

1

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

ARAAY

KEP

CLYCLANT

(Nato: Fiold disrebution indrated by "#"')

I NAVY

I AIR

CINCSO

NSA

XXX

INFORMATION RERORT

I CILLIA

2 Cl Bid

ILLIE

WIST OR LE

ALLSAIR

HOL/SA'CL

15

iL.

(1), WE 1 (2), CI d. RID 1

3

2

I OCR

LEBL 2

INFORMATION REPORT

USEA 19020(9 Dec

64)

INO PROJECT (AMMUG.

(1)

yCSCI-316/00628-65

COORDINATING IS A N

VIBR

---

