# 104-10161-10510

## Page 1

104-10161-10510

02/041

ADV FR 18457

SECRET

PRECEDENCE

FRP :

STAFF

ACTION: FR-4 (944)

INFO: DDPD=D, VR.

FILE, DDO-4, C/PCS, CIA,

EPS/EG-2, LUC/IDA

DG/DMS, PCS/PGL,

SECUR-3,

(23/k)

78 1318615

PAGE 001

TOR: 251835Z SEP 78

28

IN 1318615

23408

SE C

251800Z SEPT 78 STAFF

CITE

SAN FRANCISCO 23408 (MADENSKY ACTING)

TD:

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL ISOLOG SECUR

• REF: DIRECTOR 296906

1.

WALTER C. BADENDICK (CO) ARRIVED MONTEREY CIRCA

:= 1900 HRS ON 23 SEPTEMBER 78 FOR OPS MEETING WITH WUCLASSIC/88

(C/88).

CO TO TWO OR THREE

"OR THREAGENDA WAS TO INCLUDE SOCIAL INTRODARGETS, OF .

, OSTENSIBLY AS C/88'S NEPREW IN CUMMERLIAL ALIAS. TWHEN C/88

DID NOT ANSWER DORSELLO CO OBSERVED THROUGH WINDOW THAT CHAIR WAS

OVERTURNED AND BODY ON FLOOR. CO CONTACTED ASSISTANT APARTMENT

DOOR.

AMBULANCE TO BE SURE THAT ALL PRECAUTIONS WERE TAKEN TO SAVE

HIM.

THEY ARRIVED PROMPTLY AND, AFTER CONFIRMING THAT C/B8

WAS

DEAD, CALLED POLICE AND DEPUTY CORONER.

CO TOLD LATTER HE

WAS PERSONAL FRIEND OF C/88 AND DID NOT KNOW ANY RELATIVES BUT

¿THAT FORT NILEY VETERAN'S HOSPITAL IN SAN FRANCISCO SHOULD HAVE.

THAT INFORMATION.

GAVE DEPUTY CORONER CO'S COMMERCIAL ALIAS AND

EMERYVILLE SAFEHOUSE PHONE NUMBER. CO NOTIFIED COB BY PHONE.

>9

2. NVCANOPY AND NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE LIAISON AT

WERE ADVISED MORNING 24 SEPTEMBER THROUGH BASE LIAISON

CRANNEL.

3. BELIEVE C/BB'S BROTHER MAY BE REFERRING TO TIME WHEN,

AS ARMY OFFICER IN PHILIPPINES, C/88 SERVED IN SOME LIAISON

CAPACITY WITH RTACTION REGARDING ANTI-HUK OPERATIONS.

4.

SECURITY: C/88 WAS CAUTIONED MOST RECENTLY IN JUNE 78

VOT TO RETAIN ANY WRITTEN MATERIALS CONCERNING RTACTION OPS.

OTHER THAN LIST OF CULTIVATION TARGETS

AND SUCH MATERIALS

AND CONTACT REPORTS AS HE WOULD BE TURNING OVER TO CO AT NEXT

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 1318615

PAGE 002

TOR:

251835Z SEP 78

1318605

23408

MEETING.

HE SUBSEQUENTLY REPORTED THAT HE HAD DESTROYED ALL COPIES

OF CONTACT REPORTS AND ACCOUNTINGS AND WOULD NOT KEEP ANY IN

FUTURE.

HE SHOULD, THEREFORE, HAVE HAD ON PREMISES ONLY (A)

_TARGETS, (B) CURRENT ACCOUNTING

SUER FOR SUSMISSION 25 SEPTEMBER AND, (C) POSSIBLY ONE OR TWO

CONTACT REPORTS OF SOCIAL CULTIVATION OF O

RUTHESE

MATERIALS SHOULD BE INNOCUOUS IN APPEARANCE AND LIKELY TO BE

MISTAKEN FOR MATERIALS DEALING WITH HOSPITALITY OR BUSINESS

ACTIVITIES.

OF COURSE, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT HE RETAINED MORE THAN

HE SAID, BUT OTHER MATERIALS HE WOULD HAVE WOULD BE MORE OF

THE SAME.

FROM C/88'S REMARKS ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, HIS FAMILY

nOULD BE

FAVORABLY DISPOSED TOWARD RTACTION OR NUCANOPY BELIEVE

THEY WOULD BE AGREEABLE TO REQUEST TO EXAMINE HIS PAPERS AND

RETRIEVE ANY DEALING WITH OFFICIAL BUSINESS.

CONSULTING LOCAL.

RTACTION SECURITY OFFICER REGARDING BEST COURSE OF ACTION.

riILL ADVISE.

5. FILE: 201-948067. E2 IMPDET.

END

OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

• .

31070

---

