# 104-10071-10191

## Page 1

104-10071-10191

REPORT COVER SHEET

TEPORTING OBFICER

Josse R.. GARDALPHE

Christine T. RATHWICK

APPOOVINO OFPICIO

Cllas E CORRIGAN

SECRET

REPORT

NO.

DATE or 108

REPORT

7. March 1968

PROJECT

FOURCE CRYPT

FIELD OISTRIBUTION

PROCESSINO ACTION 3 P.

COVER SNEET

MARIED POd

JADEXING

NO INDESINO REQUIREO

OP$ DATA MCFOOTRO SEPARATELY

C#

DISSEMINATION

TOCE DISSEMINATION

EXTAA- AGENCY

1 - State, Army

1 - CINCSO through

3 - Headquarters, w/mat

1

1

2

mand

- FIles

SUPPLIMEATAL DAPA

1. A thermofar copy of MELO's letter is enclosed (with advance copies

of report) for Headquarters onlyl

_An electrostatic copy 18 for-

warded to JuWAVE.

who searched MELO and made copies

of the letter. Source also reported that MELO had given his New

He gave

telephone numbers as MO 9-4841 and NO 5-8621.

According to

MELO said he is now living In New York.

also reported that on the morning of 3 March°Daniel ODUBER's

chauffeur and Gustavo LORA, a Cuban exile, viaited [

airport and politely asked why MELO had been searched;

replied that MELO's movements were of interest to the cock.

2.

One possibly significant, unanswered question in this affair 1 why

NELO was carrying the original of a letter which he presumably had

mailed to Madrigal on or about o February.

3.

The information re Pinto in the

3837 (source

Comment" is

which was disseminated as a CSDB.

D18-4-5

4.BX 1467

petries!

TORTIONS

FFN:

18-9-8

X-File 201-823979

241-323474

1201

8651:

RE CARD

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

PAGE 1OF

2

RO POSAIGE DISSA

9-B-S---T

COUNTA"

CCI

SUBJECT

Costa RIca

February - 1 Marchios

Matten by fernando Melo,

Indicating That Negotiations

Between Ludwig Starke and Rolando

Masterrer Were Not Progressing

welle Tyra

Mer

i, fit.

Costa Rica,

San

Joge

(4 March 1968)

...:

REPORT NO

DAIF DISTR

PAGES

7 March 1968

i:::

+-.

F1.O NO

AÇO

SOURCE

4108

Mis

r.

viold Consent: The following report could be rea

o conjunotion with TDC8-314/01096-88 (ER8-4005) an

22(2331-8099),

which roported that fernando

dolo Dontanills, & Cuban @silo in Coota Bica, Eas sarving eE

an Intermodiary in nogotiations bottoon ladulg Starte Jiaones,

a Conta Bican right-ving extreaiet, and Bolando Taderror,

Cuban ostlo in the United Staton tbo me involved in plotting

against the govorment of President Bong Davellor of Faiti.

Tho nogotiations dealt with a plan toroby starte sould to-

vide a otaging drea for an invasion of Fairl by Baltian and

Cuban outlos undor Masterser'a loadership. In returo tar

SOTTOr, 18 suCCoGlUl, Tould Ebroquontly support a Bove by

againot the Costa Bican Goverment.

Balo vas reported

to bo plonning a trip to Her Yort on 81 Pobruary 1988 to call

with Mackorror and tha latter'a roprosentativo in the negotia-

t10na, Vather Diego Madrigal Alvaros.)

When Melo roturned to San 2oe0 on 2 Enrch after

violting how York City and Mical, Vlorida, bo maa detainod

and coarchod by socurity officialo at the airpare..

solo a porcogaiona the cecurity officiala icand a letter,

signed by bolo, addresnod to fathor Diogo badigal, bon York.

The lettor was

dated 9 Fobruary 1968.*. I% ED EDOUTILLED OD

lottorhoad otationory of Bogolio B. Pinto Inprobos.

RiCan CorviCe Comment:

Molo sollo printing oquimont and

been involvod in plotting againa: the Costa Bican Governaent.)

ARENTURE

GARD

---

