# 104-10220-10017

## Page 1

104-10220-10017

S8 CRIT

Chiol, Suropean Division

Chlel ol Station,

Chiol. of hame,

CALIl

NHORDIR

Oporational

Bacens Hewspagar Artiele Concerning Richard Cago HACELl.

Deference:

Action rei

1071, 10 October 1008

by Thongs C. LUCET about Richard Care RAGEl

Enbject

ol Referenco.

2.

According to the article NAGILL asserte that

1a

Auguat 1063 hẹ

ana enployed. by the CIA.

Hourtber clitm

that the U.S. Covernent is forcibly kooping tin deparatod

Iron his faully, a ulfe and teo children:

The story sakon

reference te ais recont relesse fros an lant Gorman prIooe,

ao reported 1a Refei

and states that the folloring persons

vore the cane of charactora 1 molvod

at the tino of ho roloage:

Andor FRAY::

Chier of the restern Arraire section of the w.3

Manlos Berlie,

bolisar vous mon moon tant ter cetortent

Blooy &.

wealthy buabingtoo D.C. attorney Bruce o 1171

Chier, 01 tho

U:8. Be

11D Koston Publie Batoty Section,

MAGEUL ai

10"

-tInO CIA nomber DEd PLATIN 10 Et

no realie

Peychlatut

MaJor Coorge Raymond

BABINCU 0

Mat the 0.0. Arny Boopital in portins: and an

(Conteneed)

PPROVID:.

Fondlaand. 8. Vonm

Attachents

Dintribution::

= 0084

SCRA SS312

SECRET

& saly 1008

801-798801

---

## Page 2

GHA - 89312

3.

The article does not eate clear whether or not

NAGALI

• 1s back In Gormany at the soment, vor do ve have amy

Information regarding his, present bereaboute,

other than

the staterent la the artiele that bo le probably now 1á be

United States.

To Puble Safety Offices/USBIR advises wa,

however;

that subsequent to hio rolease fron prison 1n East.

Germany

1o October 1908 be again vialted lost Berlin and con

tacted the. Pubile Saloty Office were be complained about

not being able to locate his childrea.

There are nol

traces on the author of

sho articlo, Thomas C. LUCkY.

effort to discrodit the u.g.

any traces which Headquarters or the

Waffold A. CALVIN

---

