# 104-10185-10147

## Page 1

104-10185-10147

SO NRE PORTINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NEIT

'of wbtel

» any enhour de sa mauthorti

SPE-C--E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

DATE OP

Chun

tePoRt No.

sorter outdence of Outlines and

objectlvs for Cuban Forelga

DATE DISTR

Intell keynce

Nopresentee ves

Issued. by.

the la Deportment (intelto, PAGES

Hgence) of the

of Intelligence

de Inteligenci

- ICT)

1994

ACO. NAme 1961

CS -311/00716-68

87 July 1964

$ 10

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

FIELD REPORT NO

Do Not Reproduce.

APPRANA CE COI

'TеNtAтв.

" Torer Cuban iS officer

deace

who served with the Cuban Intelli

Service until April 1964.

The following ia a translation of

document which source provided this Agency concerning the

General Directoraté of Intelligence's (Direccion General de

Intellroncle - DGI) MA Department poliey guidance of

outlines

and objoctivos for Cuban foreign Intelligence representatives.

The MA Department no longer exists as such, having been

"Illegal Department (Ilegal)

and the National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional -

LN) .

OUTLINES AND OBJECTIVES FOR SECTION MA

I. COLLECTIVE ACTION:

a) ODSCA (Organization of Central American States) and CDC

(Christian Democratic Conference) accords,

aimed at pro

ducing military attacks against Cuba. ODECA penetration

in El Salvador.

b)

Agreements adopted in the OAS and JID aimed at producing

armed aggression against Cuba. Penetration.

aimed at the political isolation or at communications

with Cuba based on "intor American system" agreements.

c)

Nobilizations and military concentrations in Central

America, on

the part of Latin armies.

d) Latin American military meetings held in Central America.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Hostanton Anger amaten

STATE

I DIA

"ARMY

BEPCINCLANT

_ CINOSO A

THAVE

IANS

1 AN

INSA

LAR

1 OcE

LEBI ?

(Mora: Plald duribution indicaped by " $f")

INFORMATION REPORTS INFORMATION REPORT

L'-1505

NO PROJECT

(AMNIG-])

For Distr

button See

Attached Pare

CILS

1DZ (10r AF/OSI, ACSI.

ONI.

TOTAL TE 3

WH 11 (37). AF 8'

RID/AN J,

WH/SA 35

CAr 3' (8), EE 8' (10), BE 12 (8), NEILL (19

---

## Page 2

Hagr's Diagen

WH/COPS

int /PO/B

WH/RO

WH/2

WH/3

WH/5

WH/6

TH/B

• WH/SA/EOB

WIl/SA/NOB

WHI/SA/B

-WH/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

CI Staff.

CI Llaison

CI./R&A

RID/AN

• AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CE

•FE/K

EE/SA

BE/BH

EE/YA

EE/H

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/1

FE/ JKO/JO

FE/JKO/K

FE/VNC/VN

FE/R•

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/1

NE/5/P

NE/6/C8I

NE/Intel

NE/CI

WE/1

NE/2

WE/3

WE/4

5

.1

20

5

3

1

1

Ban

1

4

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

-10.

WE/S

MS/BC

WEAR

Field Diggen

WH/NEXT

WH /MNTY

WH/WRID

WH/SDOM

WH / SNDR

WH/SJAN

IlL/PIBO

: WH/POSN

WH/RNGS

IN/PRIN

WH/GORG

WH/PACT

WH/MANA

WH/S.JOS

WH/SALV

WH/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

WH/CARA

WIL/BUEN

WH/COBA

FIL/SONT

R11/ASUN

WIL/SAGO

WH/RIOD

WIl/CURI

WH/BRIL

WH/SAOP

WH/BRIA

WH/BEHO

WH/LGRE

WH/RECI

WH/BLEM

WII/SA/WAVE

5

AF/ALGI

AF/ORNA

AF/RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF/CNRY

AF/BAKO

•AF/DARE

EE/VIEN

EE/SEUR

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE

FE/KAVA

gunt font

1

1

-1-1-5

10 FOREIGN DISSE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CS-311/00719-64

EE/SLON

EE/BERN

EE/GNVA

EE/ZURI

EE/HAMB

FE/DJAK

FÉ/WEDN

FE/SURA

7133

FE /OKIE

FE/SEOU

FE/SAIG

FE/KOBE

NE/COLO

1

25

NE./MDRS

NE/KUWA

NE/RAH!

NE/DACC

NE ALAHO

NE/RAWL

NE/PAGH

NE/BEIR

NE/DAMA

NE/ALEP

NE/JIDD

NE/DAHA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

5-6

WE/OTTA

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

WE/HAGU

75-4

WE/LISB

WE/MADR

NE/PARC,5-3

WE/LOND

WE/PARI

24

(Liaison] Dissen

IE,

IE.

L/WASH,

1

posed pond pass

:

. =

12/pl

---

## Page 3

14-00000

S-F-C-RE-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

→/=

CS-311/00716-64

e)

Information concerning possitle rupture of diblonaile

or commercial relations with Cuba on the part of

countries atill maintaining these relattons.

2.

NATIONAL LIDERATION MOVEMENT:

a)

Organizations fighting for national literation.

Details about their make-up and influence.

of struggle.

Causes that influenco the natlonal

liberation movement.

Elements and leaders favoring

the violent solution.

Guerrilla warfare situation. Its perspectives.

Position of leftist forces toward guerrilla war

fare and insurrection. Relationa tetween eity

and country forces.

Position of the progresslve forces tovard polittral,

econonte,

and social changes taking place lo Cure,.

both internally and in their internattonal contert..

.?. TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATIONS FASES:

• Location of training cauns.

Baltar aured: Dean ol cransport 1101,01 10

milltar, supples.

c)

Plans

for using mercenaries.

Date and places of

the attacks.

Tenotration of same.

Operation lases

located in the Soction area.":

Materiel in same.

e) Attack plans, locations, and date. Penetration.

•1.

THE CESTRAL AMERICAN COSMUNIST FARTIES:

a) Position toward the II Havana Declaration.

1) Position toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Position toward the Cuban line in the national

or international political field.

d)

Position regarding disagreements in the inter-

national Communist movement:

In the Sino-Soviet case.

In the Albania-Soviet case.

In regard to the "ugoslavia-Sino-Soviet-Altania case.

In regard to PEACE.

In regard to pacific coexistence.

e) Internal disagreements.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 4

S-E-C-I-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

= 3-

CS-311/00716-64

() About disagreements with other leftist forces.

• About relations with bourgeois parties.

b) About the manner of fighting officially adopted

by overy Communiet Party.

1)

Position of the Communiat Parties toward guerrilla

nrfare la Central America.

ARVED FORCES:

Armed forces organization and materiel (unite) of

"Army, Mir Force, and Navy.

Bases and arnaments.

b) budgetary allomances. Official docúmente foriginale

or coples).

e) Bilateral secret agreements with the United States.

Yankee military misstons in countries of the area con

corned, l'ankee stratesy develuped with these armies.

d) Guerrilla and anti-guerrilla training of the armies;

units

and materiel utilized in this training.

Duration of same.

same, Characteristics.

2) Untts 'particloatine in the d.c.c.a

Combat readiness.

Tra sportation and armamental same.

Forces of the i ne

In the ared of the

Publications from different branches of the Armed

6. MEXICO'S RELATIONS WITII CUBA:

a) Diplomatic relations.

b) Pressures

for rupture with Cuba.

c) Possitilities of closing the

gateway of Mexico as

incoming and outgoing route for Latin America from

Cuba.

7.

REPRESSIVE ORGANIZATIONS AND CIA:

a) Repressive organizations operating in the countries

of the area.

Existing coordination among them. Its headquarters.

Meetings.

c) Accords adopted Jointly against Cuba and the

solidarity movement.

d)

Measures adopted to fight the natlonal liberation

movements, date and application of same.

S-E-C-R-E-T

8O FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 5

S-E-C-9-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Cs-311/00716-64

Plans and objectives of the national repressive

organizatlong.

1)

CIl addicer- sad lesters of its settuities in the

countries concerned.

"Plans and objectives of CiA in the sone.

. Weans

Geveloped for obtaining same.

h)

National elements operating for CIA.

Counter

revolutionaries in sinilar operations.

1)

Penetration of the repressive organizations and

o1 the CIA net in the zone.

j' Contacte with Interpol.

Existing coordination

with same.

Restrictive measures concerning travel

to Cuba.' Ageats.

8..

SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA MOVEMENT:

1) Its force in the Central American countries

Possibilitles of the novement for solidarity with

Cuba with regard to the growth of Central American

countries.

Repression against the solidarity-with Cuba move

ment.

(Adjust them to Congress plans.)

9.

INTERNAL POLITICAL LIFE OF EACH COUNTRY ND THE INTIMATE

CAUSES OF THE DIFFERENT POLITICAL EVENTS:

a) Relations between the different political forces.

b)

Relations of the leftist forces with the mass

organizations in particular.

c)

Relations between bourgeois parties. Contradictions,

agreements, disagreements.

d)

Elections: degree of mass participation in the

electoral processes.

e)

Political efforts from the group of Figures,

Betancourt, Munoz Marin, etc.,

in Central American

countries.

" Tact about a one in enter do to oat doo

Concret

10. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:

) Diplomatic and economic relations. Their reflectio

n the policy toward Cuba

b) Reflection of exterior commerce of the United

States in the relations between Central American

countries.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T

• NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Cs-311/00718-64

c)

Cultural relations. Agreements.

Utillantion

of cultural relations for ideolorical penetration:

d) Peace Corps,

activities. How they are vorking

programs and plans.

11.

COUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS:

a)

Delegations in countries handled by the Section.

Their leaders.

b) Propaganda and military-type activitles.

.B.

c) Contacts with government and political groupe.

d) Particlpation in the repression of these countrfe

Police activities of the counter-revolutionaries.

Training caips and recruiting centers in thees

say"

countiles.

1) Operations bases Supporting organirations:

IMPORTANT POINTS

12.

THE CATHOLIC CHURCh:

a) Central American Episcopal Conference:

organization, purposes, meetings.

b)

Church influence within

each government.

Concrete

details abot elements of great influence in the

Church.

Disagreements with

the government. Accords

or activities coordination.

c)

Relations with the American Embassy and United

States' plans.

(Peace Corps, Alliance fOr

Progress. d

d).

e)

Secular and clerical organizations' activitles.

Relations with the Central American Armed Forces.

Utilization of the Church

as the coordinator.

between the different armed forces.

13. REPERCUSSIONS OF THE ECUMENICAL COUNCIL IN CHURCH

POLICY IN LATIN AUERICA:

a) Position of the Ecclesiastical Hierarchy in every

of the countries with regard to discussions

taking place in the Ecumenical Council.

b) Ecumenical Council repercussions in the Church

public activity among the different countries.

c) Contradictions between the position of the

Ecclesiastical hierarchy of eich country toward

discussions taking place in the Council and the

role performed in relation to the plans of the

Alliance for Progress for each nation.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 7

14-00000

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C6-311/00716-64

d) Contradictiong between the polley resulting fron the

Ecumentoal Council: for Latin Ameries and the

oligarche' Mnterests, especially landowners.

8,

Relations between Slements of the nationallet

bourgeosle of each country and the Church with

regard to the development of the Ecumenical Councll

and its policy for Latin Anertea.

between the Tankee Government and the

eccleslastical hierarchy of each country with regard

to development of North American plans in Latin

CLARIFICATION:

This line, in vier of its

should te included as an important point

in the task for esch country.

14.

ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS:

•i Application

anth Program.

Loans, works being

develoned and T

ogrammed; missions and Anerien

officials' activities

with regard to the Alliande. Br

"Civic Action".

groups' activitles.

El Salvador as the pilot country for the Alliance

for Progress.

c) Alliance functionaries, data, ways of life.

d) Position of

of

the different political or social

sectors

each country toward the Alliance for Progress.

15. FOREIGN POLICY:

a) Official relations with the rest of the Central

American countries, especially with Brazil, Mexico,

Argentina, and Venezuela.

b) Participation in the UNO and OAS.

c)

Position

toward the econonie, political, and military

integration. of Central America.

15.. OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

1. OPERATIVE SITUATION

a) Way of life: Sectors with mutual affinity.

National psychology.

National minorities, location.

Idioms and dialects.

opulation districution

tandard and cost of living

Fudging creedes characteristics.

b)

Immigration and emigration:

Legislation

and current treaties.

Apreements concerning visas.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES

---

## Page 8

1d-0n0d

S-E-C-R-L-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS-311/0071G-64

c)

Consts and borders:

Special corps of custody.

Const and border. corp

Commerce and smuggling at bordere

and coaste.

Fishing villages, characteristics

of fishing fleets, their regulations.

Customa, its regulations®

d) Transport:

•)

g)

Communications:

..

Internal and external neans of

communication; transportation

enterorised.

Characteristica of urban and rural

transportation; natlonal and restonn!

networks.

Itinerary Roade, trattle

on same.

Rattroads.

Alr and

maritime transportation (maritime and

fluvial).

Ports and ilfports.

Fares.

Schedules.

National and International telephone

communications.

Characterlaties.

Enterprises.

Natlonal or inter"

national cablegram communications.

Characteristles, enterprises.

Mall

communications.

Regularity.

Cuban

mail characteristics as well as other

countries'.

Radio amateurs.

Pertinent legislation, possitilitlem

of using them.

Government control over all types of

communications,

especially postal and

telephonie.

Technical means used,

"Ether check."

State structure:

Functioning of Ministrtes and State

organizations.

Repression and intelligence:

Operating organizations: forces,

materiel,

Chiefs, officers, and enlisted men.

Organization of net of informants.

Penetration of movements and

political organizations.

Public or secret offices.

Ways and methods of operation.

Budgetary allocations.

with CIA; national elements operating.

2. OPERATIVE WAYS:

a) Operational work:

Personal identity documents, icfl

official

and private.

Originals.

documents used as identification.

Originals of official letterhead

papers.

National currency.

Denomination.

Foreign currency in circulation.

Exchange houses.

Black market

(quotations). Clothing and footwear

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 9

S--C-R-ET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2=

CS-311/00716-64

17.

of normal use buch fron national and.

Poratine serfaces na

and stenpe.

b) Active montures and mainformation wris

Location and priccurement of offictel

end quast-state letterheid:*

Particularly of MINREX, Interior

Ministry,

Principal Puscrionaries: signatures.

Same with American enterprises

operating in the country.

Official documents containing pleas

studies, negotistions.

Private

documents fron offielal

funetlonaries in brivate (Intinate)

or 11legal matters.

OPSRATION OF MINREX IN SACHI COUNTRY. DATA AFOrT ITS MENDERS

AND DIPLOMATIC. CORPS:

») Data about functionaries. Signatures.

Foreign service characteristies. Official and non-

official tasks of functionaries and Diplonatie Corps.

Send all information obtained in diplomatic cireles

'tout the political life in the countr..

Official and non-official tasks of functionaries and

Diplomatic Corps of international organises (UNO, OAS).

d) Performance and data of Diplomati. Corps functionaries

accredited in the country.

18.

PRESS:

a) Jewspapers and radio stations developing anti-Cuban

campaigns.

b) Newspapers and radio stations favoring Cuba.

c) Possibility of using newspapers, magazines, radio

stations, and newspapermen.

d) Official publications in the countries (official

sazette or equivalent).

19. PREYSA LATINA (Latin Press):

a) Utilization of Pl in the national press.

b) Political and

performance a peelistic deficiencies in the

c) latters which are not taken care of or which

are not properly disseminated about importact

and interesting events in Cuba, on the par: of

the PL branch.

d) Suggestions and wajs

job

of utilizing or improving the

of the

PL, as a whole or

in a concrete

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

## Page 10

NO FOREIGH DISSE

CS 311/0071°-64

20.

21.

Posslbilities in the Centrol inertene aed Cartetenn

labor novement of the mised Sew Center of Intin

Aperican Workers-

b)

Available force of frienty thor canization.

Executives, politieal learlops of fts neukers,

•fillates-

c)

Avollable forces of OUTI netrated Inbor

organizations, executives, at out mas,

nfrillates. ORIT efforts In te different

countries.

ECONONY:

A) PIns for Central Anerless ecolonde valty.

b)

Influence

of the price siantion a sericultural

products and cattle in the world arket.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN SISSE

---

