# 104-10130-10411

## Page 1

104-10130-10411

ACSE file Runo

DacambEr 1947

!?:

---

## Page 2

SOAAROVED PORRILEA

CAASTORON AYREO

---

## Page 3

WATERED

TO

STROMA

SUBJECTE

Core Toker

Stataon Section

Sanse

C-UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

x16 December 1947

case No:

35002

One November 194To name check was instituted on Subject which

evealeds the toilorin nformation:

& December 1947 - Nothing Identifiable.

I. 2

Noyember 1947 - No record.

December 1947 - Report attached.

I-I- 15 December 1947 - Nothing derogatory-

NECRET

---

## Page 4

130113

1122037301390103337379770200862417103303000013281

1270

SECRET,

23 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Bruce L. Solie

Chief, Security Analysis Group

735 002

. **

This memorandum identifies those Office of Security

files which were reviewed by House Select Committee on

staff members in conjunction with the

HSCA's investigation into the deaths of President John F.

Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, JI.

2.

HSCA review. Office of Security personnel reviewing these

files should maintain the integrity of each envelope below

so. that interested parties may

know what was and was not

reviewed by HSCA staff members.

3.

In some instances, the above files contain material

marked in the lower right-hand corner with a green circular

dot.

the

staffer(s). This material should not be removed from the

file.

4.

Attached to this memorandum is a review sheet which

identifies the name of the HSCA reviewer(s) and the date of

his review.

5. Questions regarding the above procedure and/or the

HSCA's review should be directed to the Security Analysis

Group.

Bruce L. Solie

Attachment

SECRET,

---

## Page 5

PINTERG PEVEENED AT CIA HEADQUARES BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF NAMERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBEP./VOLUI :

35002

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

1947-1970

O5 Sag

ROOM: 4E-13

DELETIONS, TE ArTwo Sealed Envelopes

DATE

DATE

PECEITED RETURNIN

A 15,172

REVIEWED BY

(PRINT NNIE)

Livia Jan Lor

SIGNATURE OF

REVIEWING OFFICIAI

Elvin Juan fans

dares at ta cord outland raes ture rebi.

---

