# 104-10216-10025

## Page 1

104-10216-10025

DISPATCH

QASSIFICATION

SECLET

DJO.

Carote surope Division

Festern Hemlaphere Division

chier,

Chief of Station, vi/Mam1

FROth

Chiel of Statton,

SUBACT

ОРЕ/ТУРІС

Infornatlen

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENGIS

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR MDEXING

NO WEDENING REQUIRED

CARY QUALIFIED DESI

CAN JUDGE DIDEXHOG

on 19th of Marzo Members from Guillero CONKALKS Snavedra

References:

9165

WE/KALE 4792

C.

DIRECTOR 26329

D.

18528.

I. Attached is a report fron the Ary lepresentative

assigned to this office on an interview hold with:

GUIllOrIO GONZALIZ Enavedra

DPOB:

8 June 1935, Placetan, Len Villas, Cube

who in the Subject of Beference..

3. Although there la good reason to question the

valldity of his utatemente, this roport may nonetheless

be of nome interest to several VI Components.

Attachment: 8 H/..

Перст

Distribution:

2 - C/ED w/att

3 - C/EUR w/att

8 - COS/Vil, Hand:"/att

COONS REFERENCE TO

es enfeyfuled in

201-764450

DESPASCH SYNSOL AND MILANKER

OBNA 25432

CLASSIFICATIOU

8E C RET

DATE

15 Septenber 1909

case tie in

65-730-80=01-55÷254

---

## Page 2

14-00000

r..*

r..?.....

• *

CONFIDENTIAL/SO FOREIGN DENSEN

11 August 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

TO: CAS

FROW: Army Representative

SUBJECT: 1. Savedrey with Cuban Emigre Guillermo GONZALEZ

2. Partial Biographical Data Major Victor DREKE Cruz

1. On 31 July 1931, and 4 August 1969, Guillermo GONZALEZ

Saavedra (CC 4113) a 31-year old Cuban emigre who arrived in

Madrid, Spain, on 19 June 1969, was interviewed in Madrid,

Spain, and stated substantially the following:

He was born

in Central Fidencia, Placetas, Las Villas, Cuba, on 8 June 1935.

He has a sixth grade education.

In 1957, he joined the 13 of

March Movement, and became the aide of Major Rolando CUBELA

Secades at the

Escambray mountains.

Upon the overthrow of

Batista in 1959, he continued as aide to Cubela with the rank

of Captain of the Revolutionary Army.

In May 1960, he was

assigned Chief of the Transportation Repair Shop. Zone H-7;

Institute of Agrarian Reform (INRA), located in San Jose de

Las Lajas, Havana.

In January 1961, he was apprehanded by the

Cuban authorities, and charged of cooperating with a counter-

revolutionary movement headed by ex-Cuban Major Cesar PAEZ.

Though Source indeed sent weapons to Paez, he denied it, and

the Cuban

authorities could not prove Gonzalez connection with

the Paez movement.

He was released from jall in May 1961 and

he was reassigned to INRA,

San Jose de Las Lajas, but was not

appointed to a specific job. In August 1961, he

was approached

by Major Enrique OROPEZA who offered him a job with the State

Security Department (DSE).

His first assignment was to infil.

trate a suspected counterrevolutionary organization being

formed by personnel of the Transportation Repair Shop, INRA

Zone H-7.

Oropeza said that he was ideal for the assignnent

because

he has just been released from prison, and the counter-

revolutionaries would have confidence in him.

Source did not

accept Oropeza's proposition,

and in turn warned the members

of the Transportation Repair Shop.

From August 1961 to April

1962, he was Chief of discipline of Hermano Gomez Technical

School (former Belen College), Havana.

In December 1961, he

was discharged from the Revolutionary Army, bom Aprilnued to

work, as a civilian, in the

same position.

December 1962, he was Chief of discipline of Havann

University

students dormitories which

was located between 12 and Malecon

Streets, Havana.

From February 1963 to June 1964, he was the

Administrator (Administrador) of a pre-medicine course which

CS COPY

52 61-i60p 95es

---

## Page 3

14-00000

did. *

CONFIDENTIAL/NO. FOREIGN DISSEM

was being conducted at building "Somellan", 17 and O Streets,

Vedado, Havana.

From August 1964 to September 1966, he was

Paymaster of the construction projects at Ciudad Universitaria

"Jose

Antonio Echevarria, Marianao, Havana.

In 1965, he divorced

his wife Zenaida ARCE Fernandez who is livink at 35-25 164th

st.,

Flushing, New York, and whom he re married by proxy on 6 April

1969.

Upon divorcing ARCE, Source moved to Cubeln's home,

38 Strcet, Havana (exact address unknown), where he lived until

Cubela's arrest by theCuban authorities for plotting to kill

Fidel CASTRO.

On the day

in which Cubela was arrested Source

was managing a kiosk (a temporary hut in which people are sold

drinks during carnivals) at a Carnaval in Havana. and did not

sleep at Cubela's house.

When he returned to Cubela's house

he learned from Cubela's mother, Virginia SECADES, that Cubela

had been arrested and that the house had been searched by the

Cuban police.

Other persons which were apprehended for plotting;

with Cubela, against the regime, were Ramon GUIN, Alberto Blanco,

(FNU) GALLARRETA,

and two unidentified Cubans.

(Source denied

having any knowledge of the plot, though he suspected that some-

thing was going on).

Source was never interrogated by the

police on Cubela's plot, but noted that he was being followed

by DSE agents.

Prior to Cubela's arrest Major Faure CHOXON

and Efigenio ALEJEIRA, two or three times a week, visited

Cubela and engaged in private talks.

Source never participated

in the private

talks between Chomon, Almejeira and Cubela.

The last time he talked to Chomon was on 24 December 1965, when

Source made a social visit to Chomon at his house in El Vedado

(address unknown), accompanying Cubela and Guin.

Politics was

not discussed during

the occasion.

Gonzalez attended Cubela!s

trial accompanying Cubela's mother.

Source could not provide

details of the proceedings other than saying that "the Cuban

authorities knew everything about the plot!

Cubela made

about a one hour long speech on his behalf; in his speech he

admitted he had had a meeting in a hotel in Madrid with ARTIMES

(Inu) a Cuban exile.

Alberto Blanco, and ROBENO (Inu), alias

"El Mago," a Cuban exile residing in Barcelona, Spain, who

"everyone in Cuba knows he is working for the CIA; but that

the meeting was very vague and that the attempt to kill Castro

was not going to be pursued. Cubela also admitted having a

weakness for drugs.

In the same trial Roman Guin admitted

plotting against Castro and divulged the name and address of

@ CIA agent who had contacted him in Havana (name of agent

unknown).

About four months after Cubela's trial, Gonzalez

visited Major Victor DREKE at

his home, near Havana Zoo.

(Source has met Dreke in 1957, when both were Cubela's aide

1a El Escambray). He told Dreke that he was being followed

by DSE agents.

Dreke told Conzalez that he was going to take

the matter with Jose ABRAHANTES, Chief of the DSE.

Since

Gonzalez visit to Dreke, Source did not notice being surveilled.

During the first quarter of 1966, Source met at a party, Mirtha

PEYROT Alfonsos, a female 39-year old Uruguayan doctor heart

specialist, who

was under contract with the Cuban Government.

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL/NO FOREIGN D. 3EN

Gonzalez thought of an opportunity of leaving Cuba with the

help of Peyrot.

He married Peyrot two or three munths after

they first met. Peyrot made an attempt to get an Uruguayan

visa for Gonzalez, and in her attempt she made a long distance

telephone call, to Uruguay,

to an Uruguayan doctor named Carmen

(Inu), who Peyrot claimed was the personal doctor of the Uruguayan

Minister of Interior.

Peyrot also told Source that Carmen

was

the one who got her into accepting the Cuban contract.

Failing

to get an Uruguayan visa for Gonzalez, Peyrot opted for paying

Gonzalez airplane fare to Madrid.

Source had limited knowledge

of Peyrot's background.

She had been in Cuba from 1963 to 1964.

Gonzalez became suspicious that Peyrot was cither working for

the Cuban intelligence or the CIA, when she began asking him

captious questions about himself.

In public, openly and unafraid,

she expressed disaffection toward the Cuban regime.

At an

occasion,

she suggested to Gonzalez, that once he arrived in

Spain, to contact Robeno

"El Mago"

in Barcelona, and to join

Six months prior to

her departure

him in working for the Cl two or three times a week, an office

from Cuba Peyrot visited,

of an alleged Brazilian dentist, that was located in a building

in front of El Hotel Capri, 21st Strect, Havana. Source never

met the Brazilian dentist.

In November 1968, Peyrot supposed

to have left Cuba for Uruguay via Mexico.

Source, and other

unidentified friends, who went to the airport to say good-by

to Peyrot the day she left Cuba, did not see her, taking the

Mexico airplane flight, though the passengers were easily

distinguished when they were entering the airplane.

Shortly

after Peyrot left Cuba (date unknown), Gonzalez divorced her

on the grounds of default.

(Field Comment:

Source had 2

difficult time

remembering the dates in reference to his

personal history.

He seemed to be anxious to cooperate, and

said that he was going to write to his present wife now in

the U.S.), and ask her to send him a copy of his divorce papers,

in order

to confirm some of the dates which he was not sure of.

It is interesting to note that a Myrta TEIJEIRO, an Uruguayan

doctor was mentioned by Julio RIVAS Delgado (see Memorandum for

the Record to CAS,

dated 20 November 1968, paragraph 22),

where Rivas stated that she has visited the Cuban

Embassy in

Madrid at approximately the same period Mirtha PEYROT left Cuba.

Though it may be coincidental, it is probable that Mirtha Peyrot

and Myrta Teijeiro are the same person.

Source did not divulge

any information on his past associations with Mirtha Peyrot in

his initial interrogation at the Cuban Reception Office

(OKC),

because he was afraid of discussing sensitive matters with the

ORC interrogator.

He stated that he has a seven-year old son

in Cuba,

and is afraid that the Cuban authorities may take

repraisals by not letting his son exit Cuba if they, the Cuban

authorities, would find out that he has brought the

subject of

Peyrot to the attention of the Cuban interrogator at the ORC.

Source stated that he is willing to cooperate in any way possible

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL/NO FOREIGN riSEN

with the U.S. intelligence services should his services be

required.)

2.

Gonenloz provided the following partial biographical

data of Major Victor DREKE Cruz:

Major Victor DREKE Cruz was born into a poor negro

family in Sagua La Grande,

Las

Villas, Cuba, in 1938 or

1939.

In 1957, he joined

the 13th of March Movement, and

became one of the personal aides of former Major Rolando

CUBELA Secades:

Upon the oerthrow of Batista in January

19s9, he returned to re with his family in Sasua la

In 1960, Cubela convinced Dreke to join the

Cuban Revolutionary Army (FAR). Dreke joined the FAR

with the rank of Captain, and was assigned commander of

a unit located near the city of Cienfuegos.

Dreke led

an Army unit against counterrevolutionaries. in the

Escambray in 1961.

In 1963, he was appointed Chief of

Guerrilla Warefare of the FAR general Staff: As of May

1969,

he was Chief of the Political Committee of the

FAR General Staff (Source Comment: He obtained the

information from Captain Julio MARTI, an acquaintance,

In a conversation that took place when Source and Marti

casually met on a bus in Havana in May 1969:

Marti also

told Gonzalez that Major Julio GARCIA Oliveras (who was

the Cuban Ambassador to North Viet-Nam) was the second

In command of the Political Committee.

Marti also. stated

that he, himself, was a member of the committee.) Dreke

is considered a Fidelista rather than a Communist. He

is intelligent and very brave.

He was described as

Negro, 5'5"

tall, 125 pounds, slender build, black kinky

hair, abnormal large head.

He is living with his wife

(name unknown), and two daughters at Alturas del Nuevo

Vedado, near the: Havana Zoologic. Park, Havana.

---

