# 104-10052-10101

## Page 1

110410052-10701

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WH Division

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

- LIEMPTY Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIRED

- Renewal of Project.

REFERENCE(S)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET PANTON

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HMMA -17999

-1930

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

50-6-74/1

DATE

31 October 1961

RE: "43-3" - (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Attached are the requisite number of copies of the Request for Renewal

of Project LIEMPTY.

Atelara curtis

RECORDS OFFICER

STAND

The following agtion

authorised:

30 October 1961

Attachment:

As stated above.

Even pages herewith.

Odd pages under separate cover.

Signed:

8.0. #030 - Uali Li:X/1/K

Distribution:

(35 WHD (with five copies of attachment) :

Il destruction,

2 - Files (with one copy of attachment)

roasons anâ

coordinate

11 appropriate.

2828

FORM

10.57

(40)

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-29.

51-28A

AND 51-29

TEn AX 6451E1

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/NEUR

5006-74%

PAGE NO.

• CONTINUEO

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

PROJECT ACTION

TYPE OF

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

APPROVAL

AMENDMENT

NO.

RENEWAL

Fr 1962

TERMINATION

XFI/CI

DIVISION

WH

FIELD

STATION

Mexico City

DESK

3

CASE

OFFICER

ROOM NO.

1013

BUILDING

Barton Hall

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISION

TYPED NAME

(And signature)

PROJECT CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

ICA

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMENT

C/ww/3/Mexico

C/NH/3

WH/B&E

WH/PO/A

C/TH

Robert De Carter

Je Co King

Mexico

EXTENSION

2555/3162

DATE

COPY

NO.

-21 NOV 1961

2 2 NOV 1961

Stiert)

82-5-661

MEMORANDUM. ATTACHED

YES!

NO

DATE

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

APPROVAL

PER 100

TO

TOTAL AMOUNT

1 December 1961

APPROVING AUTHORITY

DDP/FG/FI/Proj

30 November 196# 49,500

SIGNATURE

FOFH

8-id

848

SECRET

FY

196 2

196 3

$

$

AMOUNT

29,500

20,000

50-6-7411

(5)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• 1'

DD/P2-0234

SECHET

NIEMORAIDUX FOR: Chief of Operations; DD/2

LICUPTY (Renewal)

WH = Mexico City

is presented for renewal for

originating in WH Division,

The attached projectine period 1 December 1961

through 30 November 1902 This project provides for physieal

and photocraphic aurveillance operations in support of

Mexico City Station operations, particularly those directed

against soviet personnel and installations.

2.

Authority is requested to obligate

• $49,500 trom the

DD/P=WH Division

budget:

329,500 in fiscal yeär 1902, and

$20,000 in fiscal year 1963 subject to the availapility of

funds.

This

estimate ancludes. $39,500 for salaries Of three

contract agents

and eleven indigenous agents; $3.500 for op

erational expenses,

including QF

chicle operation and main-

tenance.

chase sa Informations end rensas oi

aost ostice boxes,

purs

vehioles; $1,000 for

repair, maintanence, and replacement of photocrephic equip-

ment; and $5,500 for mintenance on three sarehouses.

estivitas in the past par ad.

The attached bequest for renewal discussed project

Contract Agent Oliver G.

serving as an investigator, has continaed to

She primary source of information on récidences of

personnel; has provided investigative information on

annets in Honterney.

He alao bandled the LIRIC] surveillance

bean during

was abaent trog lexico.

the time contract Agent stmon Do ClAure aires:

The project sechent uader the

tion of contract Agent

Ragnond M. GORERDE (p) continueo to

colléct

openational

intormation on the Soviet Embassi

photogrephic

surveillance: and to grovide operatiota

through

support

SOME T

50-6-744/1

---

## Page 4

14-00000

to the station in the form of rental of sate-quarters, counter-

surveillance, sud procuring and servicing letter drops.

Ths

Division faels that both aspecte of the project are worthwhile

to the station's activities. It considers that the project is

now operating at optimum size.and does not plan to expand.. In

the coming period efforts will be made to refine and better

use the existing organizational arrangements.

4.

Appropriate

Special Staff elements recommend renewal

of this project.

5. I recommend

renewal of Project LIEMPTY as presented.

mies

Chief, DDP/PG

Approved:

Michae

COP-DI

шлим

10 JAN 1962

Date

Attachments:

Project Outline LIEUPTY

FI Memorandum

Staff Coordination:

For

FI Start

For CI Staff

—S/

For

CCG

-s/J.

Southard

50-6-94/1

---

## Page 5

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P

THROUGH,

DDP/PG

SUBJECT:

Project IIEMPTY

Foreign Intelligerce Staff reconnends approval of the

renewal of Project IIEMPTY.

W. LLOYD GEORGE

Chief

Foreign Intelligence

Attachment

Project

50-6-9411

028

30

---

## Page 6

14-00000

21 November 1961

ITEMPTY Project Renewal Request

1o It is requested that the LIMPTY Project be renewed for the

period 1 December 1962 through 30 November 1963 for a total of $49,500;

$29,500 for Fiscal Tear 1962 and $20,000 for Fiscal Year 1963.

amounts can be broken down as follows:

FY 1962

FX 1963

Salaries

Transportation

Operational Expenses

Operational Equipment

Totals

24,000

1,100

3,900

500

15,500

900

3,100

500

29,500

20,000

It is not anticipated that any training will be required during

the next project year.

Emergency recontact instructions for Raymond H. GERENDE and

Oliver G. SCANTLING are on file at Headquarters®

This project is primarily a support asset and does not provide

positive intelligence.

5. WH Division strongly recommends renewal of this project which

covers

some of the most valuable investigative and support assets available

to Mexico City Station.

50-6-4411

02831

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET/KAROK

REVIEW OF PROJECT LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

COVER SHEET

CRYPTONYM

LIEMPTY

STATION

Mexico City

FIELD CASE OFFICER 3 A.

Quinton

OUSLER

CHIEF OF STATION

Pilard cera

Willard C. CURTIS

The attached project action is presented for approval for the period

1 December 1961 through 30 November 1962.

SECRET/S

: 9071

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRETL

Review of Project LIEMPTY

(For the Purpose of Project Renewal)

I. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (discussed in relation to project

objectives):

"To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities.

" SCANTLING has continued (See the

last two Project Reviews forwarded as attachments to HMMA-14093,

13 November 1959, and HMMA-15979, 18 November 1960) to provide

worthwhile information pertaining to this objective.

a.

During the past year SCANTLING has continued to be

used to follow up leads produced by LIENVOY. For example,

operational information recently indicated that the LIMERICK

target was using the services of a Mexico City firm to repair

safes. 'Through discreet investigation SCANTLING was able to

identify the firm, its location and the name of the owner in the

event that we later wished to make an approach to him or to

exploit this information in another manner.

b. SCANTLING is still the Station's primary source for

keeping current records on the residences of the many LIMERICK

personnel in Mexico City. This is accomplished in several ways;

the most important being SCANTLING's follow up of all LIENVOY

leads which indicate the LIMERICK people are interested in

renting a given piece of property. (See previous project renewal

request for additional details).

2. "To collect operational information pertaining to other targets

of opportunity, foreign official installations and personnel of intelligence

interest operating in Mexico." SCANTLING is very useful for collecting

information on other Station targets:

SECRET

/7?

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET/RACK

-2-

a. On the basis of a request to the Station from the

ODACID Chief, SCANTLING was sent to Puebla to be an

eyewitness to the 4 June 1961 Catholic inspired anti-CASTRO

demonstrations. Not only did SCANTLING obtain the desired

information, and samples of many of the leaflets used, but be

prepared his report for the Station in time for the COS to give

the ODACID Chief a briefing at 1000 hrs., 5 June 1961.

SCANTLING does an excellent job on this type of assignment

due principally to his ability to observe and report objectively.

b. SCANTLING was instrumental in establishing that

Fernando LLANES Cavero and his wife were living at a local

Mexico City address. This case has been of considerable

counterespionage interest to Headquarters.

c.

SCANTLING has continued his contributions to the

Paul Frederick KIRSCHHOFF case by periodic interviews with

the subject's neighbors and associates.

"To exploit operational leads through recruitments, debriefings,

and surveillances." SCANTLING has contributed to this objective both

directly and indirectly as will be noted by the examples listed below:

a. SCANTLING devoted a lot of time to the

surveillance and attempted recruitment of

Mexican national employed at the Cuban Embassy. SCANTLING

several times and undoubtedly was

primarily responsible for the later success of the recruitment

made by another Station agent.

b. Some additional time was devoted to the Cesar

GONZALEZ Sanchez case in February 1961 when SCANTLING

determined that GONZALEZ was still in Mexico City. See

the last renewal for additional details on this case.

In connection with the above objective SCANTLING

has performed numerous pretext and neighborhood investigations

for the Station. SCANTLING also does most of the local

investigations requested by ODACID and other ODYOKE

components.

SECRET/KA

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET/LOOK

- 3-

d. SCANTLING spent six weeks during July and

August of this year giving tradecraft and surveillance

training to LIPAILS 5 and 7 from Monterrey. Although

this is not a direct contribution to the above objective, it

is considered sufficiently related to mention here.

4. In addition to his contributions to the above objectives,

SCANTLING is used for miscellaneous support requirements from the

Station. For example, SCANTLING is now handling LIEMBROIL-2 and

will continue to do so until the return of LIMOTOR-14 in June 1962. Also,

during the past project year, SCANTLING handled the LIRICE surveillance

team until July 1961 when Simon D. CLACKETT (ps) returned to Mexico

City. SCANTLING is also used to spot and rent safe houses and apartments

for other Station operations.

As stated in the preceeding Requests for Project Renewal,

although SCANTLING's LIEMPTY Project objectives can never be completely

fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING has made important and

valuable contributions to LIEMPTY Project objectives specifically and to

other Station activities in general. SCANTLING's production, measured

against monetary expenditures, case officer time and other intangible factors,

unquestionably justifies his continuation as an integral part of Project

LIEMPTY.

B.

Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (discussed in relation to project

abjectives):

1. "To collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK

personnel and physical facilities through use of photographic base houses:

Three photographic bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute

to this objective.

To avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the usual

description of the functions of these three bases and how they contribute

to the above objective. There has been no change in the coverage as

described in the 1960 Request for Project Renewal.

"To collect operational information and identify operational

leads pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." The LIENTRAP

operation, handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor to this

SECRET/K

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRETLE

-4-

objective. In addition to performing numerous photographic assignments

in support of other Station operations, LIENTRAP devoted nearly four

months, on a fulltime basis, to coverage of the LIERODE operation. For

several weeks the entire "take" from the LIERODE target was recorded

from the LIENTRAP vehicle. Later, the LIENTRAP agents operated the

LIERODE technical gear from the initial LIERODE stationary base.

3. "To provide operational support to Station operations, i.e.,

rent hotel rooms and apartments, and conduct counter-surveillances.

GERENDE is used frequently to rent hotel rooms and apartments for other

Station operations and activities.

GERENDE's comprehensive area

knowledge and personal operational capabilities combine to make him an

extremely valuable Station asset for such support activities. GERENDE

also procures and services post office box letter drops for the many

Station operations requiring them.

The quality and quantity of operational information produced

by the photographic bases and other activities under GERENDE's control

and supervision is considered worthwhile. The Station concludes, therefore,

that this segment of the LIEMPTY Project should be continued.

C. Relationship to Related Mission Directive Objectives:

As stated in the previous project renewal, it can readily be noted

that Project LIEMPTY has provided support to many Station operations and

in this manner has been a contributing factor to the furthereance of the

Related Mission Directive.

The project has not produced any positive

intelligence nor has it been intended that it should do so.

The project's sole

purpose is to provide a mechanism for the development of operational

information in support of other Station operations.

1I.

CHANGES

There have been no changes in the LIEMPTY Project during the past project

year except that SCANTLING relinquished control of the LIRICE (formerly LIJERSEY)

surveillance team in July 1961 in accordance with previous plans.

SECRET/K

---

## Page 12

14-00000

(.

(

SECRET/

-5-

III.

EFFECTIVENESS

There has been no change in Project LIEMPTY which would alter the

validity of the remarks made in Section III of last year's project renewal request.

IV.

PROBLEMS

The security problem in connection with the LICALLA operation, which

was described in last year's renewal request, is still present but has not caused

any known difficulty. At Headquarters suggestion in HMMW-9736, the LICALLA

base was reactivated on 29 May 1961. The base operator has been cautioned to be

ever alert for any unusual incidents which might indicate that the base has been

compromised. This is the only problem experienced by the LIEMPTY Project

during the past project year.

V.. ..

PLANS

The Station considers that the project is now operating at its optimum size

and does not plan to expand it during the coming year. Rather, efforts will be

devoted to refining and better utilizing the existing project organizational

arrangements.

VI. COSTS

A. Past Project Year - Station finance records indicate that Project LIEMPTY

expended $21, 458. 00 during Fiscal Year 1961 (1 December 1960 - 30 June 1961) and

has thus far during Fiscal Year 1962 (through 30 September 1961) expended about

$11, 1,000.00. It is anticipated that about $8, 000.00 will be expended during the last

two months (October and November 1961) of the project year. This will make a

total expenditure during the project year of about $40, 500. 00, or some $12, 500.00

under the budget estimate of $53, 000.00.

B. Ensuing Period - Of the total $49, 500. 00 budget, itemized below,

$29, 500.00 should be expended during the remainder of Fiscal Year 1952 and the

balance, $20,000.00 should be expended during Fiscal Year 1963. Normal accounting

procedures will be used for all expenditures.

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

- 6-

AGENT

Raymond H. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCANTLING

Louise J. MACRINO

(@ $2.02 per hour)

LIEMPTY-4

LIEMPTY-5

(@ $1.75 per hour)

LIEMPTY -6

LIEMPTY-7 (No Salary)

LIEMPTY-8

LIEMPTY -9

LIEMPTY-10

LIEMPTY-11

LIEMPTY-12

LIEMPTY-13

LIEMPTY-14

LIEMPTY-19

LIEMPTY-24 (No Salary)

Christmas Bonuses 1961

U.S. $ PER ANNUM

$

5, 520. 00

5, 000. 00

1, 500.00

2, 200.00

1, 000.00

3, 000.00

-0-

2, 000. 00

3, 000.00

3, 900.00

2, 800. 00

2, 000.00

2, 000.00

2, 000.00

1, 000:00

-0-

2, 580.00

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Maintenance of MV-2279, 2284 and

2286.

Procurement of Safehouses, post

office boxes and renting

autoinobiles.

Purchase of information,

identification documents, and

bribes.

SUB-TOTAL

OPERATIONAL EQUIPMENT

Repair, maintenance and purchase

of replacement photographic

equipment.

$ 2,000.00

1, 000.00

500.00

$ 1,000.00

SUB-TOTAL

SECRETAKE

$

39, 500.00

3, 500.00

1, 000.00

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET/KESK

-7-

REAL ESTATE

Rent, utilities and maintenance

of following safehouses:

*LIMITED

*LICALA

LILYRIC

$

3, 000. 00

1, 500.00

1, 000.00

SUB-TOTAL

GRAND TOTAL

5, 500.00

$ 49,500.00

*LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and

credited to Station miscellaneous receipts.

VIL.

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

25 November 1900

mber 1960, and HMMA-1598L, 23 November 19€0•Wa_â#&#WA—»›„

19 0887

SECRET AROK

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SEGRET

en/p 1-058,

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P

SUBJECT

: Project LIEMPTY (Renewal)

WH - Mexico City

through 30 November 1961.

The project provides for physi-

cal and photographic surveillance operations in support

and exploitation

of other Mexico City Station operations,

particularly those targetted at Soviet personnel and in-

the

Authority is requested to obligate $53,000 from

DD/P-WH Division budget:

$31,900 in fiscal year 1961,

and

$21,100 in fiscal year 1962, subject to the availabil-

Ity of funds.

The amount Includes $38,000 compensation

for two principal agents, one clerical support agent on an

hourly basis,

and eleven

surveillance and support agents;

$7,000 operational expenses (safehouse procurement, post

office boxes, rented automobiles, purchase of information,

vehicle maintenance, and operational travel); $2,500 re-

placement,

repair and maintenance of photographic equip-

ment;

and $5,500 basehouse rental, utilities, and mainte-

nance.

3.

The field's renewal request,

supported by a cover

ing memorandum of

the Division,

sets

forth

of

accomplishments

the project in the past year in terms of objectives and

estimates effectiveness.

It is noted that one principal

agent, Simon D. CLACKETT (p), resigned in October 1960, and

the four-man surveillance team previously handled by him

will be transferred to project LITEMPO, consequently being

omitted from LIEMPTY in this renewal.

Three basehouses con-

tinue to be operated under the project: (a) LIMITED, which

compiles daily logs on arrivals and departures from the

LIMERICK installation,

together with attendance lists of

LIMERICK employees, and handles the radio dispatch of the

LIEMBRACE surveillance team on LIMERICK personnel and targets

SECRET

2832

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

of opportunity.

This basehouse also provides photographic

coverage, concentrated on visitors.

(b)

LILYRIC which pro-

vides

clandestine photographs particularly of visitors

to,

as well as employees of,

the LIMERICK installation, prepares

weekly reports on LIMERICK employees

and their wives,

and

reports on license numbers of all cars visiting the

instal

lation. (c)

LICALLA, which concentrates on photographic

coverage of LIMERICK employees and their families, as well

as providing observation on the apparent positions and jobs

of the target employees, and as well as personnel changes.

Additional photographic coverage is provided by the mobile

LIENTRAP vehicle.

Principal agent Raymond H. GERENDE (p)

continues to coordinate basehouse activities; principal

agent Oliver G.

SCANTLING (p) continues to be an independent

asset used to follow-up and exploit operational information

on target personnel and installations, to case various in-

stallations of interest, to acquire property,

etc.

SCANTLING

has managed the surveillance team being transferred to

LITEMPO in the interim following the resignation of CLACKETT.

The Station notes that activities at the LICALLA basehouse

were suspended in September 1960 as the result of the ar-

rest of a knowledgeable

ISD technician in another area and

It is not known precisely when it will be possible to re-

sume these operations.

The Station believes that the

GERENDE segment is now operating under optimum arrangements

and SCANTLING will soon be relieved from his interim respon-

sibility for the surveillance team being transferred to

LITEMPO and can concentrate more on his investigative and

casing activities.

It is not planned in the coming year to

expand project activities.

Appropriate Special Staff components concur in rec-

ommending renewal.

FI Staff notes the Division's assurance

that the transfer of the unilateral surveillance team to

LITEMPO will not affect its independent status,

and remarks

that the current project review presents a clearer picture

of the usefulness of

the several

segments than the previous

SEGRET

---

## Page 17

14-00000

5.

sented.

I recommend renewal of Project LIEMPTY as pre-

M.

Chief, DDP/PG

Approved:

richardthem

COP-DD/P

3 FEB 1961

Date

Attachment:

Project Outline LIEMPTY

FI Memorandum

Staff Coordination:

For FI Staff

-S/

For CI Staff -s/R.

Brown

For CCG

-s/F. Youngblood

---

