# 104-10181-10147

## Page 1

104-10181-10147

ü .

RON ININICO

ACTION

•= 3.

INPO •

HOR

Rigesto

APR 9 8389Z 63

AREP.

CA?,

Ca/PEo, cA/pRop, CA/o &,

51, 51/0

A: 50=0/0 15/e1 2, A8/WR0 s/ 20

ROUT INE

IN 13964

Stocs

¿DIR INTO GUAT CITE MEXI 4180

TCP 1N94-7841

INTEL

SUPOATA SOUACE LLENVOY TELCON BETWEEN VEGA AÑO PERSON WO AGAIN

IDENTIFIED: SELF AS DR ALVAREZ. LIENVOY TRANSCRIBER AGAIN SAID IT

•VOICE OF GUTIERREZ. FOLLOWING VERBATIM TEXT LIENYOY TRANSCRIPTION

SHICH STATION BELIEVES TO BE CODE: "GUTIERREZ AGRADECE A VEGA DE

LA EMBAJADA CUSANA, EL ENVIO DE LAS OBRAS COMPLETAS, DE MARTI, ESTA

PANUY BONITA, VEGA DICE QUE NO TIENE POR QUE AGRADECER. :EL DR

ALVAREZ AGREGA QUE LA GENTEDE LA UNIVERSIDAD DE QUADALAJARA TAMSIEN

SUIERE UNA CANTIDAD Y POR ESO LO MOLESTA. YEGA DE MOMENTO NO

ETIENE, PERO TRATARA DE QUEDAR BIEN*.

THED 8$822352

80 800

MAD

ON 6 APRIL 1963 VICTOR MANUEL QUTIERNEZ, PROMINENT QUATEMALAN

COMMUNIST LEADER, WENT TO THE CUBAN ENDASSY TO MEET WITH MANUEL

VEGA, CUBAN DIPLOMAT AND CHIET. OF THE CUBAN GE IN MEXICO, THE

PURPOSE OF THE VISIT MAS TO THAS VERI FOR A PACKIGE" HE HÃO SENT

TO GUTIERREZ, (FIELO COMNENTS.: OUTIERREZ MIS ARRESTED AND JAILED.

IN GUATEMALA CITY IN FEBRUARY FOR "SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES." IT WAS

ALSO REPORTED TUT A PERSON BELIEVED TO BE CURULTREZ HAS IN CONTACT

WITH THE CUBAN EMBASSY ON 29 MARCH 1963).

ELELO DISSEMI STATE FBL CLASARIA

-(OND DE MESSAGE)

UNARON -OREANUDON CONTROL

SECRET

201-334.05.37 8April

63

DETURN TO CLA

Background Ure Only

Do Nol Reproducs

---

