# 104-10274-10151

## Page 1

104-10274-10151

10

DISPATCH

Chief, han

to her in 4 a 89

S-I-C-H-I-T

Afour orel

UPGA- 1017

M101A1114S 69I NO

FRC'M

Gala

Operational /JHATS

InterVieN WiSh DI. OreAteS MINIStS bTEL

Hone

RESCAENTEISO

RE. -433° - LONER T° ONE

HARGED IS APTEG

NO INTONE REQUIRID

INDEXING CAN RE JUDGED

AY QUANTID NO DESA ONLY

1. On 30 June 1961 ANCEER-1 Interviered Subject, uho

claims to direct an underground. group la Ouba.

Subject 18

• Cuban, mlarco, stout, and not very learned. AMCHEER-I

doubta that he 1a a lawyer although he might be a solieltor.

le resides at 3855 Brooker Street, near Grand Avenue, Coconut

Grove, Miamt; phone 1I 4-2700. He lives with bis alster

and a cousin.

MENESES claimed that two days ago he had talked to

Manola RAY and that they had discussed uniting his group to

the MAP. He said that RAY had offered him a position in tbe

ExecutIve Committee of the MR', where be would be under the

comand of a men called "Eugenio", chief of tbe undarground

section.

sector, and thes another of their membera vas

who ta a leader of the sugar vorkers. - lie sald that in Habana he

han 8 captatna no are chiefs of groupe in a cellular organisation.

In said that be bad made contoct in: Miand with Cesar LANCIS

Bravo and Lomberto MIAZ Peres, bus that shey had not kept

their word. (Iron this AMCHEER-1 deduced that they did nos siv

A On a cable ANCHIE-l sm that Subject bad just

received some mail addressed to Andrea *CARCLA.

Subject said

that he received many letters from Cuba at that address, buc

untos many different addresses names.

3. Subject chilmo to be anti-Conniss but naya thas be

"does not agree either with cbe Americans who are i bunch off

p.o.b'a." lo belloves that the revolutionaries are the ois

who have to overthrow CASTRO and tben continue with the work

of the sevolucion, as be belleves that most of the lis lasued

by CASTRO bave to be kept, such as agration refor, urban

reform; nationalisation of the leadiag industried». ole.

RAY vanta to projare bin, as do 18 precaring other men, to be

Beut to puerto dico to obtain support fron the unions and set

them against the American Government, which le not acting

according to proletarian needs. Ho said ho was in contace

with a labor leader called L

7 and he has

. Dan named

7 (Inu) worklag in Cubana Airlines.

6. Subject proposed that AMHEER-l act as Intemediary

wich the boya being trained by che lacter, so chat arlier-l

muuld insucerinato thea in lavor uf tat's inturealo.

Subjeca said dá bada gious beang trainel by AMilkiel Ba

---

## Page 2

Y

CORT INLATION UPGA- 1837

'=2-

another source of incone, he suld offer his services to direce

• sabotage department in this group and night even break with

RAY 18 this fruup had mure econosic support than the NiP.

1 ANCHEER-L fole that subject de moscly Interested in

solving his aconomie alcuacion.

In tos arcond place, ne showad

Individual, lle acte Iike otbers tho have been classitied as "bad

Curandata but Comunista in che end, altaough they mists not

even be aware or this themselves.

PauLa F THYFAULT

DistrIbutlun:

I-Headquarters

2-Flles

• July 1961

PET/160

---

