# 104-10413-10262

## Page 1

1104-10413-10262)

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

Chiri, Wl Division

INFO.

FROM

Chief, SR Divisioni

XX

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

C' LCIMPROVE/LIENVOY - Terro de WANSTRAM or WANSTROHM (phonetic)

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRLO

ONLY QUALIFICO DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Forwarded under

separate cover as Attachment A are two LIENVOY

transcripts of 12 November 1903 and two LIINVOY transcripts of 13 Movember

1963 which Headquarters may consider for transmittal to Station

Forwarded under separate cover an Atlachment, B is a photocraph oi

an unidentified male who was acconpanied by an unidentifiel female whose

photograph the Station assot did not obtain) who vinited the soviet Ambassy

at 1400 hours on 12 November 1963.

The Station believes this male is iden-

tical with Subjeci since the male in the photocraph is the only miientifie

male who was also accompanied by a woman an, secondly, this male appears

to be a nordic type.

The Station recognizes,

that Subject may hate

only claimed to be a Swede for cover purposes.

Ö.

The following is the comment made ly Douglas J. FRINGLASS, the

Station's LIEVOY translator, coucerning Aütachment, A:

"The exact spelling of this neme could not be determined.

Ho

slarted by saying that it is -W-1 - Il.. and then stopped, emphasizin

the two dots above A.

It is very strange that ne,

beins a Swore did to'

seck the aid of his Swedish Consulate,

but applied to the Sovict Im-

hassy and askeù for a man, wion he net by chanes (:) in ? restaurant.

Tut stranger still is the response of ne Embasay officials, who woni.

oilt of their way to find a ship for him.

Usually requerls of his

nacure nie wrushed aside and quite oflen in a very rude manner.

from his non-British accent and almost flaloss English, de must, have

Lived in the United States or Canada for quite some time.

(The Station

RETHOUD officcr agrees with FEINGIASS' conncht regarding

the 1i1al re-

Luctance où sortoi limbasey offlelala in help in a maitor de unis lipo.)

4. Station Mexico has no record of any member of the Soviet bassy

travelling to Caxaca during this period.

callon lesico has no traces or Subject

12 - It v/ait 1 & B (u/s/c)

1 - 5R v/ail: 1 & B (11/5! c)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

10T1A-22651

Exctuter ten studie

dowagadilg and

declassificallor

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

50-i-75

1P Deenber 1005

HQS FILE NUMBER

Unknoin

---

