# 104-10177-10231

## Page 1

104-10177-10231

B:5496 68498

OMF

0

SECREI!

noss andiamo i

0

178

0

0

0.9.

15-7

DIRECTOR

1

++++8080888685487888

DISSEM aY: 477

O araro 8 111

• RETUANTO CIA

Background Use Only

"*Do Not Reproduce

16-17

TO:

IMMEDIATE)

NIMACT

1816.17

WNINTEL'RYBAT MHSPIKE KMSTONE Y

REFS:

A.

31227 |INO7S H13 Y

B. DIRECTOR 929165 Y

C. DIRECTOR 930282 4

I. NO HQS TRACES FREDDY LU GO. HERNAN RICARDO LO ZANO.

OLEGG UE TON RODRIGUEZ, ALREREDO GUTI ERRE Z, CELSO

TOLEDO.Y

2. FRANCISCO NU N E Z. IS WEALTHY CUBAN EAXILE AND MEMBER

OF CORU RESIDENT IN CARACAS. NO BKHERALD RELATIONSHIP KNOUN. Y

3. ORLANDO GAR CI A VAZQUENZ: IN 1960, BKHERALD HAD

CONTACT WITH SUBJECT IN MIAMI, FLORIDA. HE WAS ACTIVE IN AND

REPORTED INFREQUENTLY ON CUBAN EXILE GROUPS AND THEIR ACTIVITIES.

IN LATE 1961 HE TRAVELED TO VENEZUELA WHERE HE OBTAINED POSITION

WITH THE VENEZUELAN MINISTERY OF INTERIOR IN INTELLIGHENCE FIELD.

THUS TERMINATING HIS CONTACT WITH BKHERALD IN THE MIAMI AREA.

4. LUIS CLEMENTE POS A D A CARRILES: MEMBER OF BRIGADE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

GIRONO

MELANITOS ETICAN

REPRODUCIION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECRET

16T0949TCA798 ORCE

E 2

IAPDET

CL BY:

3IBR

---

## Page 2

BONAL CHHTERNSROFI

0

800

0

OMF 0

0

0

0

2

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

DATE tune 800%

INFO:

FILE

DIRECTOR

933153

O m04e

0

to moB!

O MATURErO PER

DISSEM BY:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

2506 AND PARTICIPATED IN THE TRAINING IN SPRING 1961, DID NOT TAKE

• Do Not feproduce.

PART IN OPERATION. BEGAN HIS EMPLOYMEBNT WITH BKHERALD IN APRIL

65 AND INITIALLY SERVED AS AN INSTRUCTOR IN THE MARITIME TRAINING

BRANCH OF UNWAVE. HE WAS ALSO ACTIVE IN REPORTING ON EXILE

ACTIVITIES. ON I AUGUST bE WAS TRANSFERRED TO CI BRANCH WHERE

HE WAS USED TO REPORT ON THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN REPRESENTATION

IN EXILE {RECE} UNTIL HIS RESIGNATION IN EARLY JUNE 67. TERMINATED

EFFECTIVE 1I JULY 6Z. HE UENTI-I "CARACAS TO SEEK EMPLOYMENT AND

SUSSEQUENTLY PICKED UP BY

IN CIRCA OCTOBER 67. 4

S. RICARDO MAO RAL ES NAVARRETE: UAS FIRST SPOTTED AND

RECRUITED IN MIAMI IN JANUARY 1964 TO BE USED AS A RADIO OPERATOR

AND MENDER OF PARAMILITARY INFILTRATION TEAM. SUCCESSFULLY

POLYGRAPHED ON 1O FEBRUARY 64. HE WAS, PAID A SALARY OF $200 PER

MONTH EFFECTIVE I MAY 1964. HE WAS TERMINATED ON 26 AUGUST 64 •

AND WAS NEVER USED IN A BKHERALD SPONSORED MISSION•

HE HAD

RECEIVED TRAINING IN MIAMI, AS WELL AST

...e

101,01 ...

VOLUNTEERED AND SIGNED UP FOR PARAMILITARY ACTION IN THE CONGO IN

SEPTEMBER 64. ALTHOUGH HE RECEIVED TRAINING TOWARD THE CONGO

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

HE !!

des 040-00 094039

cassancaroon

SECRET

EPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAL THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEI

AUTOSANCATONO DONTLEM

E 2

IMPDET

CL BY:

z/pV

---

## Page 3

OMF O

0

SECRET

11104088 0007499 10617549

STAFF

CON#:

INFO: FILE

PATH N7OR8 CARDERLA

DIRECTOR

833153

0

0

be 1000917

MISSION, HE ANEVER SERVED. FYI: MORALES WAS APPARENTLY TURNED

OVER TO THE FBI IN I9G8 BY MIAMI STATION. IN OCTOBER 72,C

TREGISTERED MORALES WITH MIAMI STATION AS

DISSEN BY:

PEA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oriy

MORNINEE

THEIR SOURCE..

6. FILE:

9. 200-6-484/3. Ea IMPDET-

RELEASED PER AUTHORITY: MR. RAY WARREN, C/LA

DATE:

ORIG:

Z3 OCTOBER 2976

UNIT:

LA/PNCIV

13

MALANE ONCE DODO

COOdOMATONE ONICARE

REPRODUCTICN BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

SECR

CL 'BY: 008530

---

