# 104-10092-10015

## Page 1

104-10092-10015

TO

Dutcra

PROM &

ACRONI

INtO

MEXICO CITY

C/SAS 5 (SAS NOTIFIED

we, mat, clei, ele! g,

COPY SLOTIED IATO 31 DEC/MA)

SECRET 311642Z

IMMEDIATE WAVE DIR INFO PRIORITY MNTY CITE MEXI 7371

3IDC#890084

RYBAT TYPIC

REF MEX: 1578 ("90076)

1o AT THIS TIME (I0D0 LOCALI STATION MAS LOST CONTACT WITH SUBJECT.

FOLLOWING IS SEQUENCE OF EVENTS.

2. EVENING 30 DEC SUBJECT WAS GIVEN DOVN- PAYMENT OF 51, 500 DOLLARS.

HIS LUGGAGE WAS REMOVED FROM MOTEL AGNES WITHOUT INCIDENT. A

SUBJEETS

CZECH WALTHER AUTOMATIC LOADED WITH NINE CARTRIDEES WAS REMOVED FROM I

LUGGAGE BY LITEMPOS BARKER PURCHASED TICKETS IN ALIAS FOR UNTY

FLIGHT @BD8 MORNING 31 DEC. PLAMNEU LAMEDIATE DEPARTURE WAS AT

SUBJECT'S REQUEST. BARKER AND SUBJECT SPENT NIGHT AT SAFEHOUSE.

EITHER DARKER OR CHOADEN WERF WITH HIM AT ALL TIMES AND HE DID NOT

COMMUNICATE WITH OTHER PERSONS. MIS MAND BAG GIVEN TO MIN BUT

REMAINING THREE PIECES LUGGAGE RETAINED. MORNING 31

DEC SUBJECT AND BARKER DEPARTED FOR AIRPORT. SUBJECT ABRUPILY ANNOUNCED

THAT ME VOULD NOI GO AIRPORT, BUT WISHED REMAIN MEXI. FOR SEVERAL

BLOCKS ATTEMPTED STEP OUT OF MOVING AUTO, REFUSED EYEN GO TO

AIRPORT DESPITE PROMISE ME WOULD NOT BE FORCED TAKE FLANE.

FINALLY LEFT CAR BUT AGREED WOULD MEET BARKER AND CHOADEN AT COFFEF

RETURN TO CIA

SECRET

Background Use Coll

REAZODUCDION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING ONROE IS AROMAMED

• Do Not Repoetr

Copy

No

#15322

---

## Page 2

• 1924101

CARRIED H

SHOP, LOCAL MOTEL A

AND RELEASE SECURITY DETAILS

RETUR

LANTE

NOT SHOW AS OF 09430

LUNGAGE

PRELIMINARY INSPEOTION REUZALE NOTHIS OT

NEW CLOTHES AND ONB MALF HALKIE TALKIE SETS

3.

SUBJECT BELIEVES HIS CONVERSATION MUTH STATION AR SAAT

DEVICERS VAS RECORDED. HE CERTAINLY AARE NO PUZONET PETION A

WITH FORUSEN AFTER A LESTE PLIGHT AND ME A SECON

REMOVED TRON MOTEL BY POLICE TYPES.

STATION MAKING EVERY ATTRUPT RELOCATE MY

$ &

paties atones act

My CoMa 20 protozerace

SECRET

34 2222

15322

---

