# 104-10219-10117

## Page 1

104-10219-10117

S3CCT

$ November 1961

MEMCRANDUM FOR: Me. danesk. Han de

Deputy Chiel, Cl Stall

SUMECT:

ALFEIENCE®

Milanol.C. SUMAN (201-108566)

Dintesal Contact of Willlan Hamiltos MARTIN

and of AEMUSICAL

Your Memorandam dated 13 October 1951

Pe: "TheMlMCano"

I. Thank you very much for your memorandum of 11 October.

relerencid above, and for the enclosed contact report, lacluding

ARMUSICAL'o report on the information be acquired from Subject

concerning the lotter's intorview by ONI and contact with Willlam

Hamiltes MARTIN.

Neithor the biographle dala on SUMAN contalnod

(herein, sor lio close ecsoctation with both MARTIN and Bertes

FOrgOCE MITCHELL mere born to us hitherto. Neither vero we

• awaro of hia apparently extenaive correspondence with MARTIN. le

hno not hoen posablo to dals to vortly through special sources whather

Subjoct'a correspondence with MARTIN continued aftor MARTIN'O.

disapponrance from the United Stated. Vie have not as yor roceived

the latoat NSA roport of invostigation, which would include the ONl

report of interedew of Subjoct since file document apparently bas

been dolayod in publication and transmittal. However, we have been

eduisca the ine ducument ln question choald be available is approni

mately or ween to ten days. at which timo we shall provide you wita

the ONI repore of their intervien of Subjecs.

?. La reply to the guary outlined is paragraph I of your momo-

rander, we see little point in attempting to discourago AEMUSICAL

from passing this information to the Soviots, both on basie of lie past

performance in reporting, and becaus the KGB undoubtedly already le

AWESO O! SUMAN' relAtionaLD tO MARTIN, MITCHELL ANd AIMUGA

An a consequence, I would not appear necessary to request ONI to

clear tale informantion for paesago to the Sovieto by AMUSICAl, per-

deniarly siace it munt be serumed thet the KGB is mentoring all mall

sont and received in the USSA by MARTIN and MITCHi. la order

to simplily the handling of this information both within thie Ageney and

the customer agencios involved, ll la suggeated that a straight CSC!

SECHET

LIES EZV

+46-701-787338

---

## Page 2

disemination of the information obtained by the agest from Subject be

prepared by Will ler ONl with coples lo liSA, the F Bl and this olfice.

such dlisemination to bo coordinated wits Chlel, Fl/D, prior to rolesse

by the Cl Stall, Sech handliag, we balleve, will cnable WE/llo provide

Cho appropriato sourco descriptlos and referencos to carlier corresponde

ence wiia UNI on tale case, in such manner as to pormit roady internal

ONI coordination in lade master. and to protoct lae leenity of the ageat

as well as lo joint sperational equities of both the fil end thie igeney

in this cass. Mr. Ludlam of your stall, the la famillas to some

cartent tira the TIDRAMA/ACMUSICAL caso, has indicatod that leis

method of handling the information will simplily any further coordina...

don with the Navy on matters with which he is concerred.

I. For your convenience we are forwarding for your Information

no Encloouro A, berewith, a reconutructed chronological outline of the

KOB koogledge of the relationahip botween haMusiCal - Subjoel

MARIIN and MITCHiLL Enclosure A le based upon information con

talned in those documente on the case, which were made physically

avallable to this olfice for rever through the elforto of lar. hial

Granquor, HE/ME, who holdo the actual 201 Milo on thie caso, includo

lag all operational reporting beginning with January 1961, Car s8riew,

therefore, mas lindied to the throe-volume IIDiANA Operational Elles,

covering the period 1957 through becembor 1960, which files were

found in the custody of Airs. Certrude Wacker of S8/CI/RSD.

N9.. Grangulat adriaed that ll could not bo possible for us to bare...

siellar lean of the material nince December 1460, los reasons curlined

do his note, uhicà de lacluded la Enclosure B. Howorer, Mir. Grasquiat

volmateered lo rever the entire 201 file da our beball, and to extract

the portineas informailor on 3UMAN frora-said file, and to forward such

information lo lilo afílco. To date, such poview bas produced only one

onch entrach, copy ci which ie allached as taclosure B.

Your particular attondon lo Inuited to the laet that revion of

Rho TIDAAMA Operalienal Files revoaled that the bulk of the reporting

on this case, Including the identities of TIDRAMA-I/ALMUSICAL'A

personal seguantances, contacts, and operational reporting largota

on whom he bas passed informalion to the KGB, have never been

indered inta RID indices, and therefore are not reflected in a name

chack submitted by olser dents or divinione to the Central RID/indes

Section. As a consequence such name check will not la any manner

reflect to the requestor that there is any information on such individual

hold in Will, even shough extensive inforration may be available, and

even Indexed in WE/l card tiles.

This velume of unindered reporting

Includen istersal ClA communicationa between Headquarsers and Fiold

stations, as well as reports lo and from the fBI and other U. Agencies.

some of which inclade extensive backgroand data on certain of the agonto.

---

## Page 3

contacts. The failure of WEll to provide for RYBAT carding of the

Identitos montloned in the AZUSICAl reporte, for which thore la

ample provieton undar CSN-41-39, dated.J1: May 199%, has resulted.

da tho diopasch ta Subjeet's case, of an olficia Agency memorandum

datod 2 November 1960, addresced to the Naiional Securly Agency

and the FBl, sartsing thas ClA Indices contalued no references ideatio

mable eila bichsel C. SUMAN ul Sierra Madre, Calliornis, pho was

a Lintod reference-of Willlam Hamiltos MARTDi. Fos your convenience

a copy of this memorandum la attached as Enclosure C. Undoubtedly

a copy of the memorandum itoell, os of the infarination relayed therela

as made atalable to UN by NiA prior to actual UNil comtact and inter-

Ver Ol SUMAN. dU a resulE dá our recedpe of the informalion forwarded

mile your relerenced memorandum, a physical recheck was conducted

on 19 October 1361 of all AlD/Index carde on file in Central RID/Index

dA taO DUrIMO OSUMAN, Thin exercise revealed that se of thal dato

thore vero absolately no carda filed undor the naine of silchael 6.

SUMAN as of thas date. This check was made prior to our contacting

ol Mr. Granquis later that day or snorily therealtor, with regard to

possible polor reporting un SUMAN, which rosy have boen provided by

the agont in advasce of tho lasest report. Mr. Grangulot readily

admitted that bere had baen some previous roporting, but oratod that

nono ol these roinences had been ladened in or for HiD/Inder, sinco

ho docon't bolieve in Iadering overy same that appears in operational

roporting as a contace of tho agent, that la "unless wo bare some

oporallonal irteross la such porson. and heretolore we have nover had

day ench Interest in SUMAN. ' He aloo Indicated that SU MAN'e name

had been passod to the KGB by AiMUsiGAl some tima ago, probably

areand the turn of the year, '' but was not able to.come up Immediately

with a spochile date. or valerence in which details ui this seport to the

EGB wo recorded, He slao Indicated that despito passage some time

ago (actually about 18 monthe prior to the report formerded alta rates.

enco) by AhMUSICAL.of Wichaal.C. suMAN's ame to the KGB do an

Individual with wbou the agent maintained personal contact, he did por

fool that taio fact por s0, iranaformed SUMAN into the category of

persore "of eperational interoat to us." When queriad for further

details on such reporting. Granguist indlested "that he thought he knew

Junt about share those reports were located in the file," and volunteered

to extract the pertinent information and forward same to this office.

However, he indicaled that he did not believe be would ba able lo let

no borrow sas actual 101 file, which is on permanent charge to WE/l,

and to permit ua furtiaes detailed sludy of the material therein, sloce

the files sore in constant uns al tha deit. However, he wens on to stato

that ho would be perfectly tilling to let us borrow the earlier TIDRAMA

fles held by irs. Neckor, if we preierrod to conduct such review

ouraelves, rathor than relying upon his review and extrading of pertinent

EVES GLY

i-""

---

## Page 4

14-00000

' an at.

mmerlala from these fles. Thie offer vas sccepied, and Mrs. Potockl

oubsequestly borrowed the lilos hold by Mes. Necker; the results ol

uhla choct raveled the detalla of ALMUSICAl's reporting en his con-

lacta vith SUMAN, insofar as such detailo are rofloctod la the TIDRAMA

operational fles, and are sommariaod la inclosuro A..

S. It la obroue from even a rolatively asperficial sevley of thee

materiali, that AlUSICAL lao novor been questoned in detall by hle

CLA case olficero ou his relationahip vith or to SU MAN and a number al

othor individuals, whose names appear throughou this correspondence.

Neither does be appear to have been debriefed in depth on the aubstance

of the internation he passed to tha Sovlote on auch poreone daring the

Induldual meetingo he had with the KoB, mach lead regarding the

renclica el the kQB handler to any of the names, or the follow -up

queries pat to him by the soviet Case Cillcer orally during the course

of any particular moeting when euch information was passed. This

stalament, of coarse, is basod upos the operational reporting prepared

by the

and le obvlouly subject to poesible

correction in sho event ouch detaile are corored in the individaal con•

tact reports prepared after each meeting by the ClA bandler, such

reporto nur having boo scanned or road in the course of thie review.

Unlees such dosailo dn appear in the contact reporia, it would appoar

that sourre has withold much of the detall of his conversations eith

his Sovlet handler, elther ca & vitting basto the motivation for phica

no! be colablished, or unwittingly, poolbly because ho was not asked

for these detallo. Under the circumstances, you may wish to conaldor

andertableg a Storeagh Gi raview of the entire ARMUSICAl case, in

order that a detailed debrisfing of the agent may be undertaken upon

no return to the United Stateo, and prior to hie re-transfor to the con-

trol of the F'Sl. Me poto that despiro indicalions to the field that the

desa was preparing races on AEMUSICAL'e multitudinone contacte,

Bho Moo reviewed seflect the rasulte of such tracing elforta on valy a

small proportion of the agent'o astociates and contacts.

6. It lo requested that the uriter he hept adviood of any farther

oction contemplated in thia case, as well as of any further information

developed stoas source's contact with SUMili or any other persons

figuring is the ZAGRACE casa.

Encloures:

I w/ene.

1 w/enc-

-201-2823384

- 201-308566

WILLIANK. HARVEY

Chief, F1/ Division D

FI/D/APotocki:mem

l'w/enc.: - US/SRS

I w/enc.

• 100-6-124/3

13 205029-09

---

## Page 5

ENCLOSURE A

Reconstructed Chronology of KOB Knowledge of Alchael G. SUMAN'S

Connection with ARMUSICAL and NIB IRGRACE PrIncipale

1o Per CSCI-3/160, 678, dated 12 July 1960, addressed to te

FBl, on pilo 11 there do mantioned a "genaral questioning by SLABOV

*I ACMUSICAL with regard to hlo contacte la the U.S. durin the

meeting between SLABOV and A-MUSICAL on if May 195% le must

bo procumed that SUMAN's name lisely case up at tha me, 1a lighs.

of Information doveloped at a later dare ahowing SUMan to bave been

the person who exerted the most Iníluence over ASMUSICAl la ble

youll, according tO hIMUSICAL's owa adraisadon.

B. At the 16 July 1959 meeting with SLABOV, Sle KGA handlor,

AEMUSICAL GAA Inetructed by SLANCV to prepara and submit lo

BLANOV at las next meeting a "very complote lue bistory of bimself.

(el para. 9._

8816, ded 24 July 1959) According to the dare

reference, the ClA Case Clileer, Timothy E. Noggle met wịth

ARMUSICAL on 17 July, ar which tine he obtained las abore inío, nad

in para 17 tha CLA handler states:

"1?.

We gave T/l the greda light on bis life history telling

him to furniah a complete.and truth/ul reporr.do. TIDRAMA/3.:

The portens of T/3'e "algè-levol' schame for T/l'le hard to escuce

and hardor yot to accept at face value. For the timo being 1!

socia best to maintala our wait-andosee poliey, particularly

because the Sovior trip should produco's tirm decial on 1bo

Sevlet elde se to whother or sot Ill is worth all this bother...."

Stace the nest AEMUSICAL (then still TIDRAMA/I) contact with the

KGH was schedaled for 3 August 195%, to be followed by a meeting mith

Noggle on 6 Auguat, it must be presumed that al least at this time

AEMUSICAL'e clode friendship and continuing contact with Michael C.

SUMAN was brought is the astention al the KOS. However, it la note-

worthy that throughou? the operation, there de very llisle dotailed

reporting from the field on the enact detalle of what ASMUSICAL told

the kGB landler at each meeting regarding each of bis personal con-

Racla. Subject's caso do a perlect example. Actually there le no

detalled record of exactly when or' what AEMUSICAL told te KGB

about hia (riendship with Subjeel, other than the ltero contained in

this chronology. Neither does there appear la be any reporting of the

dopth to which KGB representalíves probed isto this relationahip, the

reaclion shown by the KGB handler hon AIMUSICAL first indicated he

---

## Page 6

SSONET

:..l

was a filend of SUMAN's, ote, Since AEMUSICAL (then TIDRAMA)

actually was in contact with the KGB kesident In Stockholm, Ivan

BORISOV in 1957 prlor to lia contace with MUBARA through tha local

ODACID Installation, there always romains the posalbility that SUMAN

may in sona yet torplained manner have played sense role in BORISOVO...

contact with ALMUSICAL of which source either la vliting but to which

he does nof admit, or of which the agent do entiroly unwitting.

3. C961-31756, 896 addreused to the FBl under date of 9.Cictober

199% pago 3, para 3, indleades that TIDRAMA did in lact provido

SLABOV with tho reguosted detalled personal biographic batory stale-

mant, such Information presumably having been passed, sa planed.

on 3 August 145% 1I SUMAN'e name had nos previonaly come up in the

oral queotioning of AEMUSICAL referrod to in paral, above, 18 aurely

muot have come out on this occarlos.

A. Inzerach as ShADOV requested AEMUSICAL to provide him

wits an addrees at which he could bo reached while in the U.S. In the

fall ol 195% alhough the recore Indlestes merely that he tboreupon

supplied SLABOV with bis mother'a addreso in Calliozald, in view of

the lalormation reportod to his headquartero hanilers la Cetobes 1939

prior to leaving Washington, de must bo presumed that AMUsA

aloo providod SUMAN'o name and addresa lo the 10B, so one of the

persone he planned to contact and vieis with while in thats.

3. WE/l and tho ISI were aware, le advance, of TIDRAMA'S

plans to contact SUMAN while on tho West Coses durlag too perted

27 October through 5 Novomber 195% according to the original plane.

as indicated in attached memorandum dated 49 Ocrover 195%, addressed

by WEll to ME. Milor of Cl/Opo/Sovnal. (Encl. D) The original eltulo.

document vas lound interilled in tha TIDRAMA Uperallonal Filed hold

by SB/CI/REL.

6. Following TIDRAMA's returo from above referenced Hoot

Comet trip in October-lovember 195%, during which time be was

attempting to obtals certain elseattled information from blo Calliornla

contacto in order to comply with the KOD roquirements given him by

SLABOV before ho left Stockholm, TIDRAMA was again debrieled and

briefed by the beadquariere case officers of WIll, with report of bi6

U.S. trip forwarded to the field al

1037% under date of 13 November

1959. Apparently this pouch was not coordinated wish hi. Miler, and

#l la apparent that no copins ol the complete pouch vero provided to him

following disparch to the field, in light ol varlous memorande referring

to OSSW -637% all of which are addreseed to Cl/Upo Soveal and begin

with a memo dated 9 August 1960 concerning SUMAY. Coples of these

..CT

---

## Page 7

memos are attached for your convenience as Enclosures I and E. Con

trary to the impression conveyed in Amidente memoranduor of 9'Auguas

1960, a closer reading of 6379 reveale that lie dais with SUMAN

occupied the entire period of his alay in Calliorta, de. from 27 Cerober

through & November 199%, to the exclusten even of visiling the Inyokera

Naval Station where Source's mother was employed. and concerning

which ho bold certala sl'o from the Soviet case ollicor. Undor lsa

elseumstanceo, Die contact with SUMAN cannot bo diamicoed de lightly

as Amiden'e mero might Indicate, and it la very duubtfal that TIDAAAA

would hare boon able to get olf suth as supariicial a report to hie KGD

handlor as ho appoaro lo bave dono with respect to the WEll caso

•filcoro responsible for ble handliag at the umo.

%, As Enclosuro G. plesse find a copy of the report TIDRAMA

propared on his contacts in Calliornta, which was prepared by the Desk

and paused to Air.

for clearance by approprtate U.S. Agenelos

for pasbago. Ila memorandum vas made avallable to chis vifice by

Tearing the week of J0 October 1961. Xho memorandum

Isoll to dared 17 November 195% and secording to kir.

nota

tos was shown to the t'Bl on that date, and subsequently returned on

3 December 195% Pleado noto SUMAN'o samo lo Included.

Do According lo Me. Grasquiet's memo to Mira. Potockl, lef.

Enel, D) there allegedly lo no further tention of SUMAN in the

TIDRAMA/AIMUSICAL file other than that forwarded by Granquist

with blo note, and the report forwarded to us with relarenced memo.

%

Fellowag disappearanco from tha Unlted States of MARTIN

and MITCHELL in July 1960, and after Iridial request for asnistanco

frora this Agency, NSA mado available in early suguer 1960 photocoplee

el the PHs forms completed by MARTIN and LIT CHiLl for omployment

with N8A, such forma being dated Il July 1957, three days after they

reported for duty at fort ileado. ¿namination of MARTIN's employ-

ment applicadon revealed that he had listod Michael C. SUMAN of

Sierra Madro, Callioris, aa a paraonal reference in one case, and as

a credit reference in another place, indicating that he had known bix

for a period of four years, I.e. since 1953, However, Ibaemuch as

thore wae no Indication (bat SUMAN bad been connectod in any way

WIth MARTIN's milltary sorvice la Japan, it was assumed that SUMAN

»so a casual acquaintance and not aa intimate friend.

10. Sabsequent mention of SUMAN la NSA reports dated ll September

1961 and 1 March 1961 ropeat information reported in para 9 above, and

rollect that SUMAN'e some was cheched through the HCUA indicos'do: =:

SECA

YES AT!

le due pianisa

---

## Page 8

SE022T

...:

• October 1960 by NSA Anveetigatore with segative reonito. Wo have

so yo? sot received the neut consolidatod N9A report ol investigallon.

which may contain the realis of the ONI Interview of SUMAN, which

to mentionod ln enclosure to your msiorandum of 11 Octobor: 1961.

050

COET

N3-2+

---

