# 104-10179-10008

## Page 1

104-10179-10008

APPROV.

A RELEASE 1994

STURICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2) Hereber 1960

OONTACT REPORA

BEJECT, Mouling With Merel Ray and Real Chibes In the latterly

—spartant 110 West Soch terest, Hen Tork CIET) on 22

Townber, 1960.

FART ONE OF THYR

Motes the snoring bad boed called by so in ender to laplon

ment 41e

de:lalens reached al Headquartero conourning cor faturo

ralationah" pe nith the MEP.

C/i:1/4, 9 Moresbar, 19603 also 000 MISH 177h, IN 45826 medal atares that

Hunt obrarnod Tarons's concurtanoe on 21 bovenDer to Manoeithe IRP Me

the rays coatraller.)

westing, was started by no talling lay that I had reo

nonmhat gerblel mounge concerning a entals operation In torIcle ot

Hoe serious an undertaking van this and what, procedly, wai

Involved? (Counts IMA questin me preed perment to intraction lo

na 1011041

(a) There ure tuo garriuma statiaod at the Inle is fles

command (whether those atleme tore wiltery or oinlien liy did

not kou) hich vre roady to mulet 1n intl Sutro notivities the

spoond cartinon men Located at the Pinsa Del Keto and me primri

à coent lloy installasion. Ra did not soonli the nure of 10e

canading offloor:

Tiay Do el halp in arranging the anonpo of Mitos. A

anto vote we arrived in Mint on 21 Forbe ease chit Mesos

Beens to trust

and has even tin

he do mo on mint t

at the Feas

away to w11113e

an assorto dontiçaod to

Liberato Natos fres prison.

(0) In conaldering ebe estuation oillaod 1a (1) «d: (1) abore,

Maral payro udlItary plennere folt that one minglo operation abould

Do forgets. vince the MP plamera balleto Prat, 18 Hates Natos cen

Be trood and 11 the tro gertiaons neaticed 13 paragrapa?(a) above

nd1l delect, then other tipe and a pood part a le populallan in

Cho Into as piroo, to by the ran Chino, 18 Indoubroliy lorRi to

Castro. Farthermore, the MiP feele that l50 Idio Ol Panes ared enter

Удро

---

## Page 2

onalderation on probably not be beid by then for my lecsta el

1o unless certal pemento al Castro's us foro co be neto

•Ined estra prior er darlog the cosp, Tse liPure are not so unal

consumed abort Cantrols grand 1m001 devording to lay there ere

mrah Land: Iane jonda, tho MaPera leni, can Do onally doe

cantralled by the. do intter son stand, the stamal emert co

the operation rould be fee

to capture and seatalio ceu.:

To Lan nevd ere a an o- an oron 10 rataly to much here

Does parton to the past e mamber a time ta ender to got

16ar 1000. Mator would be trend idth the

11 bernblar che

occopy rootsoes and, partajo, aiso atratosio loca°sara.

(a) Ta resion thasl27 Horanher man not as the largot deta

was that both

and Cir. i me die f0 routinin the ve

nor future, vuraore, the Mop plansens thirt, a sunday 10 t

boat day to mont suca as operatio.

3o Arter the above expoeton lay asked la the lollodre ande

tanoes

(a) Our

alr force,

part to end/of advice on hor to sentent o Chatron

(0) Intelliaoo data onourning connel mining ind ur fielde.

is, ishort mating say comedicate an the abovo roquent i

whother er not Riy, had proper cormnlention fac1211100

subether or not lla pegale lauldo vere ablo to roost

mpplies which night cone their my. I alao ant

mapme the HeP planners mre. thinking of ind içat lind of anie

no rapply mula de noded for arms nou alroidy in the hendo at ent

Cubans In that enot. Ji Bocene oden that Ray did not ayo tho

So 1t this polat of the converantion I began inch the

implant

Froup ecald not milord any duploa lun el aral-cario oftor, lhat do

adetristrative and myal melany had been antailiatod for quize me

---

## Page 3

14-00000

=3

A110

undoubtedly lone

as aloo the military adrians to the TEDI

any alpanto snid undestedly carry the YED label and 1o all Lie

11hood MiD prepared, atl-causo literature would accepany auch Bap

mento plani and pliote utilised la euca as underretto: sere MRD estere

sad däwtilled as soch.

6. Baylo TEply lo the me sennher do fallor, matle the 181

thinka 16 oantroia shore paloo 1, Bader, abould at least soelise that

the palore no vre vardog formerly for Cabins Air lion really

Belonged to the MRP. In any onse he, say, and the IRp wuld accept the

propond arrangeret bocsure lE muld not tanly lat the NRP lo pol1t8....

cally teholden to the IRD, 1t muld cmply todicate to tao peope inalde

7. I tald Roy that I would have to got 19 touch with our silltery

prople so arier to find out shother or not. no non bad suffscient dete en

band on malch to baos a cocialo. (Comments Cia me Bristod too

phalenly by me on she faro nina and on aditical anjocto of this

Booting sled dio reported so part duo of this costact report. chil

aod I felt thut we did not have so yet nutricient date to make ey

ominento Chas Inatruotod no to adrise lag tants

(0) Ilther the IRP should onbolt a detalled plen milan u

mould consider and in the butle ef unlah we muld then doetde

whether to be al aslotence or not ory.

8. it into pedert al the nooting i sale thes tse timo no ripe lo

mire tho $2500 payment (by Bender checks) and to adles Ray that snotbe

57500 mould be nado allable to la via dam Peele, the PRD coptraller.

aponted that i had and parmay abut tupilcalico and coulood the

approved lines cantalned In 1y 19 Movember 1960 Baucrad to CAM/le Rin°

nd Chiban renotions nure not maxpectods tay rejected thin partionlea

andiro posal, (comers' for nastional desallo and otter irons covined.

Abolin all called do per." oro and three,

"Contact Seport, ?? Hovent er

OERARD CROLLE

CAN/TA

Metributiaos

Orig - CR

1 - HP

1- HA/FA

---

