# 104-10103-10280

## Page 1

104-10103-10280

RETURN TO CIA

1 Background Use Only

. (15)

Connection?

were there any efforts made to develop an OSWALD/Cuban

(10) What form did they take?

(17) what oxchanges were there with the fit on this subject?

(18) " What action developed from these exchanges?

(19)

they?

What records are there on these exchanges and where

are

Auti

RETURN TO CL

Bas ground use ente

---

## Page 2

From a review of the Agency S file on Lee Harvey OSWALD

it becomes apparent that the Agency and its field Stations, partis

cularly in Mexico City and Miaimt, were not unmindful. of the possi

bility that OSWALD did not

act alone During the first few weeks

after the assassination, Headquarters, upon at least three occar

sions, exhorted the Mexico City Station to continue Vall your

coverage of the Cuban and Soviet installations. a On-28 Novem

ber 1963, the chief W/S, told the Mextico Chry Station that thore

should be no tet down in your efforts to fotton ail leads and

vestigate all facts which bear on this ease. We have by no means

excluded the possibility that other as yet unknown persons may have

been involved or even that ather powers ma

may have played a

role.

(Emphasis added IDIR 35655, 28 November 19631 On 30 November

Headquarters asked the Mexico City Station to follow alt leads and

tips. "The question of whether OSWALD acted Solely on his own

has

still not been tinally, resolved."

(Emphasis added.) DIR 86064

30 November 19631/

And on the 12th of December 1963, Chief, WH/3

again asked the Mexico City Station to continue to watch for

Soviet and Cuban reaction to investigation of assassination, evi

dence of their complicity, signs they putting out propaganda about

case."

Emphasis

added. "FYI only, Soviet intelligence in India

had letters sent to

C(US) leaders demanding full investigation

of casem

DIR 88680, 12 December 1963]

Lame dextco City Station, however, had already Initiated

thorough reviewo us holdings in an attempt ascertain what infor

mation vas available on Lee Harvey OSWALDo his presence and his

activities in Mexico City This review turned up the fact that

had dealt with OSWALD during his known visits to the Consulate on

27 and 28 September.

In response to a suggestion from the Station

the Ministry of Gobernacion arrested silvia DURAN and her husband,

Horacio, on 23 November 1963. [MEXI-7031 IN, 23 November

19631 Later the same day an official of the Ministry informed

---

## Page 3

the Station that Silvla DURAN was completely coopstative end had

given a written statement attesting to two, visits by OSWALD to

Consulate.

00:r

MEXT-7046 CING

:23 November 19631 FAl though her

testimony, was taken and presented, solely, by the Mexican Govern-

ment authorities, Silvia DURAN was the only live witness on record

regarding OSWALDS activities in Mexico CIty- It is from her state

ments that it was learned that OSWALD became engaged im a personal

altercation on 2? September 1963 with Eusebio AZCUE, the Cuban Con

sul and a member of the Cuban intelligenco unit in Mexico City AHe

1eft Mexico on I9 November 1963 after being repiced by Alfredo

MIRABEL Diaz.

There isine evidence in the OSWALD file that Silvia DURAN

was sublected tora systematic elicitative interrogation that would

thave related her dealings with OSWALD, known or confirmed by inter

cept, with the data held on the Cuban DGI (Direccion General de In

telligencia), Its personalities and methods, in Mexico City.

normal forsa case like OSWALD's, considering the fuss he allegedly

made with AZCUE, fos the applications to be handled solely by a

cal employee and a lame duck like AZCUE whose slot had been taken

by the DGI Chief?

Whatever the answer to these questions, they were

not asked at the time.

And there remains the more, fundamental ques

tion: accepting the DURAN story as it stands, could it have hap

pended without the knowledge and participation of DGI personnel in

the Consulate? This seems untikely espectally because Manuel En

gento VEGA Perez later Cited by a Cuban DGI defector as having

stated he was aware OSWALD had made several visits to the Cuban

Consulate.

It is clear CASTRO's overseas intelligence and securit

service could have nore in its files than was surfaced in the

DURAN statements

[CI Staff Review;

dated 23 May 1975, pp. 16-19.1

Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez, alias Marcos, and his DT assistant

RogeLiS RODRIGUEZ Lopez, were positively identified in February 1964

by two independent sources as engaged in the active development and

facilitation of the training. of Nicaraguan agents for the purpose of

assassinating General Annstasio SOMOZA.

---

## Page 4

As of September 1964,

Silvia DURAN gave up her Cuban

Embassy Job Insthe spring of 19675 Stivia DURAN wastreported by

a reliable and sensitive source to have cut all relations

*with

Cubans. Her account, in 1967, of how she had been taken into

custody and had been interrogated after the assassination fer

peated what was already known. She added, under circumstances

326084

that did not permit the source to challenge or elicit corrodorative

detail, that she had gone out with OSWALD during his stay in Mexico

City and claimed she had sexual refarions with him. libid, pro 19

20:3

Almost Immediately after the President's assassination,

Agency field stations began receiving. information from Various

sources of undetermined reliability, relating to the alleged assa

ssin of President Kennedy:

As the Warren. Commission reported on pages 305 and: 307

of tis report, racerally dozens of altegacions of a conspiratorial

contact between OSWALD and agents of the Cuban Government have been

investigated

The authors-of the Report go on to state

that

Among the claims made were allegations thats

OSWALD had made a previous trip to Mexico

City in early September to receive money

and orders for the assassination (567], that

he had flown to a secret airfield some-

where in or near the Yucatan Peninsula&

[568] that he might have made contacts in

Mexico city with a communist from the United

States shortly before the assassination t5691

and that OSWALD assassinated the President ar

the direction of a particular Cuban who met?

with him in the United States and paid him

0001570] -3 A letter received from some-

one in Cuba alleging the writer had attended

a meeting where the assassination had been

discussed as part of a plan which would soon

include the death of other non-communist

Leaders in the Americas (571]

The charge

was made in a Cuban expatriate publication

that in a speech he delivered & days after

the assassination, while he was under the

influence of liquor, Fidel Castro made: a

slip of the tongue and said,

time OSWALD was in Cuba', thereby giving

away the fact that OSWALD had made one or

more surreptitious trips to that country

157213

---

## Page 5

"Some stories linked the assassination

to anti-Castro groups who allegedly were

engaged in obtaining illicit firearms in

the United States, one such claim being

that these groups killed. the President as

part of a bargain with some illicit orga-

nizations who would then supply them with

placed OSWAr ayment (573] Other rumors:

in Miami, Pla., at various

times, allegedly in pro-Cuban activities

there [5741. The assassination was

claimed to have been carried out by Chi-

nese communists operating jointly with the

/Cubans 1575 OSWALD was also alleged to

have met with the Cuban Ambassador in a

Mexico City restaurant and to have driven

off in the Ambassador's car for a private

talk 576]. Castro himself, it was alle-

2 days after the assassination called

for the files relating to Oswald's dealings

with two members of the Cuban diplomatic

mission in the Soviet Union; the inference

drawn was that the 'dealings. had occurred

and had established a secret subversive re-

Lationship which continued through OSWALD's

Life 571 Without exception, the rumors

and allegations of a conspiratorial con-v

tact were shown to be without any factual

basis gin some cases the product of mis

takene centuft cat ton.

The Warren Report makes reference (bracketed numbers in

the above text) to Commission Exhibits (see-Attachment n for list

NOS:

of Commission Exhibits) most of which had been furnished by the

Federal Bureau off Investigation. Only the first reference

the

ALVARADO Interrogation was furnished by the Agency.

C9LS331

The Agency

did, however, provide assistance and information to the FBI, in the

latter's investigation of three of the allegations (see asterisked

Exhibits) The results pf the Agency's investigation of other

rumors and allegations relating to OSWALD and the possible involve:

ment of the Cubans and Soviets in the assassination, were dissemina-

ted to the FBI, primarily, and to the Warren Conmission see attach.

ment T for a lost of disseminations to the FBE, and attachment T

SIS AME

for a list of memoranda to the Warren Commission)

---

## Page 6

Among chese cases, which consumed hundreds of man-hours

in Headquarters and abroad

and similarly the fBr in the united

States and Mexico City

was the Nicaraguan, Giiberto ALVARADO

who contacted the United States Embassy in Mexico City on 25 Noyem

ber: 1963

the ALVARADO case is taken up in detail bysthe Warren

Commission, in lis report, under the cryptograph un

Mas beinga

illustrative of the attention given to the most serious allega:

tons me

On 35 November 1963 a young Nivaragan, Griberto

Nola

ALVARADO Ugarte

---

## Page 7

:5

telephoned the United States Embassy in Mexico City Later that

day he met with the Embassy security officer and a Station officer

at which time he claimed he had been in the Cuban Consulate in

Mexico City on 18 September 1963. While in the Consulate he saw a

man whom he later recognized as Lee Harvey OSWALD receive $6,500

in cash to kill an important person in the United States.

ALVARADO described the circumstances as follows:

standing by a bathroom door about noon he saw a group of three

persons conversing on à patio a few feet away... One was a tall,

?!"

thin Negro with reddish hair, obviously dyed, who spoke rapidly.

1400 4192304200200%

both Spanish and English. He had prominent choek bones anda

noticeable scar on the lower right side of his chin

The second

Has a white person whom ALVARADO had seen previously in a waiting

room carrying a Canadian passport.

The white person had green

eyes, blondish hair, with a pompadour hairdo, and dark eyeglasses.

360233

23tat

1125%

The third person allegedly was Lee Harvey OSWALD. ALVARADO was

convinced of this

this from published photographs of OSWALD following

the assassination. OSWALD was wearing

a black sport coat, but

toned-up white shirt with short collar tabs, no tie, dark gray

pants, and clear eyeglasses: He had a green passport in his pocket

wore a wrist watch with a yellow band, and appeared to have a pis-

tol in a shoulder holster.:. A tall Cuban joined the group momen-

tarily and passed American currency to the Negro.

The Neto then

allegedly said to OSWALD in English,

"I want to kill the man."

OSWALD replied, You're not man enough, I can do it..

The Negro

then said in Spanish, "I cane go wich you.

Thave a tor to do.

SPONSE ASLE

OSWALD replied, "The people are waiting for me back there."

Negro then gave OSWALD-$6,500-in large denomination U.S. bills;

saying, "This isn't much," After hearing this conversation, ALVA-

rado said that he telephoned the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City

several times on 20 September before the assassination in an at

tempt to report his belief that someone important in the United

states was to be killed, but was finally told by someone at the

Embassy to stop wasting his time.

---

## Page 8

6

ALVARADO was known to this Agency as a former informant

of Nicaraguan security service.

His reliability was considered

questionable by American authorities although he had not been

wholly discredited. ALVARADO claimed he was in Mexico City working

against the Cuban communists for his service.

The service

ever, has denied that he was acting on its behalf:

While investiga

con in the untred states showed that OSwALD could not possibly hav

have-been in Mexico City on 18 September (he was knwon to have been

in New Orleans on both 17 and 19 September), intensive interroga

sion failod to shako ALVARADO's story.

La on 28 November 1963, the Mexican police interviewed him

At FirSt ALVARADO persisted in his staxy bur on 30 Navember he ad

629$

mitted in a signed statement that his whole account about SWALD

2260N

was faise. He admitted he had not seen fee OSWALD at all and that

84520%

he had not seen anybody paid money in the Cuban Embassy He also

admitted he had not,

tried repeatedly to phone a warning tol the U.S

Embassy in Mexico City on 20 September as he had previously claimed

3E AST

Instead he.had first contacted the U.'S. Embassy after the assassi

nation ALVARADO Said thac his nocive in celling, chis false story

Was to help get himself admitted into the United States so that he

could participatesin action against Fidel CASTRO. - He said that he

Thated CASTRO and thought that his story about OSWALD, if believed,

would help cause the United States to take action against CASTRO,

astonese".

Following the above interrogation, ALVARADO retracted the

confession he lad made to the Mexican authorities asserting that it

had been extorted from him under pressure He was then questtoned

by U, So authorities using a polygraph machine. ALVARADO volunta

36 82V

23/4016

rily consented to the use of this equipment During the quesioning

it was pointed out to bim that he was not being truthful, according

to the polygraph, in identifying phorographs of OSWALD as the per-

son he saw in the Cuban Consulate. He replied that he had full

faith in the polygraph, that he would not attempt to refute the re

sults, and that he "must have been mistaken".

A PAN

In addition, he

---

## Page 9

7927

asked to prepare a review of allegations of Cuban involvement in

the John F. Kennedy assassination..ron l5 April 1975, David W:

BELIN, Executive Director of the Rockefeller Commission, addressed

a letter to the Agency in which he stated

---

## Page 10

7

he changed his story regarding the day he visited the Cuban Consu-

116942

late, finally deciding it took place on Tuesday, 17 September. It

was concluded from the results of the polygraph test that ALVARADO

had fabricated his story, from whole cloth

[Memorandum to J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel, dated

4 June 1964%

from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans.]

(Comment: Some idea of the time and effort expended by the Agency

in breaking ALVARADO's story may be gained from a review of the

Chronological Summary of the Gilberto ALVARADO interrogation under

-attachment IV.>

Although the Warren Report had used the ALVARADe case to

27:0058020

demonstrate the cype of allegation the Agency had had to contend el

with, the schweiker Report took the Agency to task for not having

become more suspicious of possible Cuban invelvement in the assassi

nation. To some extent, the authors of the Schweiker Report are

right.

There were other rumors and allegations indicating that

OSWALD may not have acted entirely on his own; however, none of

there rumors and allegations stood up under intensive investigation

Moreover, each rumor or allegation was treated as a separate and

unrelated case

the only common denominator being OSWALD. There

appears to have been no suspicion on the part of the

Agency that

these rumors and allegations might have been part of a larger decep

tion plan orchestrated by a foreign counterintelligence service.

Only a thorough investigation of all available information including

overt comments by responsible communist officials could have allayed

these suspictons or generated additional requirements to be levied

on Agency assets worldwide. Obviously such an investigation would

have required an enormous quantity of patience, time, and personnel

AN EARLAST

None of these prerequisites was available, specially in light of

the tremendous political pressures under which the Agency, the EBI

the Warren Commission, and others were working prectuded the nitia

tion of such an investigation.

It was not until eleven years later that the Agency was

---

## Page 11

"As you know, there have been allegations

that the CIA was involved in a plan to

assassinate Fidel Castro.: For the purposes

of this letter, we will assume thät these

allegations are correct,

and based upon

this assumption I would like to know. the

answers to the following questions:

"'I,

Did anyone with the CIA tell any

member of the Warren Commission or any

Lawyer serving on the Warren

Commission

staff that such plans had been underway?

If the answer is yes, we would like to

know what person or persons with the

Agency delivered said information, to

whom it was delivered, when it was de-

livered, what specificatly was- told or-

said; what documents there are to support

the answers to the foregoing questions

and what response, if any, was received

from the Warren Commission.

-If the

Commission was not told about this, why

was itinot told and who made the déci-

sion not to deliver such information

to the Warren Commission?

12. There 1s

There is evidence that Castro, prior

to. November 22, 1963, knew about/the exis-

tence of such plans and the possible in-

volvement of the U. S. Government. Did

the CIA at any time prior to the comple-"

cion of che Warren Commission investigation

have any documents or other information in-

dieating that-Castro may have known about

such plans? If the answer is yes, would

-you please furnish us with copies of ali

such documents and details of any such in-

formation.

1'3.3

Several months prior to the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy there is evidence

of a publicispeech by Castro that

was re-:

ported by the Associated Press whereby

Castro alluded

to possible assassination

attempts on his Tife and possible retalia-

tion. -Would you please advise us if there

is any evidence that this Associated Press

report may have appeared in any newspapers

in the United States, including specifically

any newspapers in Dallas or New Orleans.

Would you also advise us of you have any

other information of public statements of

any Cuban loader prior to November 22, 1963

indicating any awareness of possible assassi

nation plots on the lives of Cuban leaders:

14:

-Would you please advise us if there is

any information in CIA records to indicate

that at any time prior

to November 22, 1963

any foreign government

or-any foreign group

was.

considering a possible assassination of

any American leader.

If so, would you please

advise us of

all details.and also advise. us

who in the United States Government outside

the

CIA was advised of these plans or possi

bilities.

---

## Page 12

Prior to his death Lyndon Johnson sup-

posedly stated that he believed that although

there was no doubt that Oswald killed Kennedy

and Tippitt, nevertheless Oswald might have

been a part

of a conspiracy in retaliation to

possible Unired Stares assassination atrempes

in Cuba, Would you please advise us of any

information in Agency files showing whether

or not. there was any communication to President

Johnson of any possible plans involving the

attempted assassinations of

any Cuban leader

Tand is the answer is yes, also give us all dés

catts involving this matter.

[Letter to Mr. E. Henry KNOCHE, Assistant to the Director, Central

Intolligence Agency, dated 15 April 1975, from David W. BELIN,

Executive DirectOr.

Commission on GIA Activities within the United

Staresi

In its response to the above letter, the Agency noted

that the results of its review "add nuance, not evidence, to what

the Warren Commission, and its staff had laid before them in 1964

in this subject"

As to CASTRO's remarks during an informal interview by

the Associated Press correspondent,

Daniel HARKER, the Agency com-

mented that "There can be no question from the facts surrounding the

CASTRO appearance, which had not been expected, and his

agreement

to the interview,

that this event represented a more-than-ordinary

attempt to get a message on the record in the United States."

...(Em

phasis added.) The Agency commented further that There is no evi

dence in the files on the KENNEDY assassination that this CASTRO

• 23254"

interview was considered in fortowing up teads or in dealings with

the Warren Commission and its staff although Mexico Station spect

fically directed Headquarters attention to the AP story very shortly

after the Dallas killing.

More important, the interview appears to

19544

have been forgotren in the contemporary political consideration of

305X:

relations with CASTRO!'s Cuba.. There is no evidence in Agency te:

cords, either, that the Warren Commission staff itself pursued the

implication of the CASTRo interview in dealing with the conspiracy

hypothesis.

There is no evidence in the files that anything along

these lines was stated by any other Cuban leader before the assassi

nation""

---

## Page 13

:10

the purpose

According to the author of the review was to reconsider

3252556

SEMESTEr

Lee Harvey OSWALD's activity on the assumption that as

an avid news

paper reader - which is known from testimony of Marina OSWALD and

others - he read the CASTRO warning and threat which appeared New

Orleans' principal morning paper, the Times-Picayune, on Monday,

9 September 1963.

The results of the review, admittedly

using 20-20 hindsight, may be set out in summary:

There is no increment of credible

gence or security service involvement in

the assassination to what was developed z

and considered by the Warren Commission and

its staff. The Commission's finding that

Lee Harvey ÖSWALD was the killer of Presi

dent KENNEDY and Officer TIPPITT. and did

them. in alone and-of his own determination

stands a

Credible

evidence' that would

upset or significantly modify this judge-

ment did (and does) not exist in Washing-

ton. But such evidence could exist in

Moscow and/or Havana, whose voluntary in-

puts to the warren Commission were mirimat

in quantity and quality, designed to cover

up any admissions of knowledge of, or con

nection with

• OSWALD which might be related

dIreetlyor IndirectlywIchthe assassina

tion. Therefore, the belief that there

was Soviet and/or Cuban-(KGB and/or DGI)

connection with OSWALD will persist and r

grow until there has been a full disclosure

by these governments of all elements of

OSWALD!'s handling and stay and in the Soviet

Union and his contacts in Mexico City.

Warren Commission report should have

wider "window

for this contingency.

indeed,

was the opinion at the working level

particularly in the counterintelligence

ponent in the CIA in 1964.

As was indicated

by MT. HELMS in his testimony before the

•Warren Commission, CIA would continue to

regard this aspect of the OSWALD case as

still open.

*In the absence of additional or new

elements of 'credible evidence'-there-are

"'nuances! in the record that emerge as note

worthy, in the light of ather conclusions.

These are reviewed and summarized below, item

by items

CASTRO's

warning and threat of ? Septem-

ber 1963. if

OSWALD did indeed read it in

New Orleans • must be considered of great

significance in the light of the pathologi-

cal evolution of OSWALD's passive/aggressive

after his attempt to kill General

---

## Page 14

11

early in April 1963 and his

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

Cuban Revolution which is directly trace

ablo as far back as his Marine Corps

service in El Toro, California.

CASTRO'S

warning and threar, given to AP correspon

dent HARKER, irrespective of whether there

was any formal mandate, or even security

service contact with OSWALD by the Cubans

or the Russians - was an act of singular

irresponsibility and under no circumstances

was excusable as retorsion for what the

emigres were doing during. the summer

of: 1963:90

[Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding

Allegations of CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F. KENNEDY-

Assassination. Cover Memorandum to DC/OPS dated 23 May 1975-1

These items are to be found on pages la 27 of the review

complete copy

of which is attached.l See attachment-val

---

## Page 15

CHRONO LOGICAL SUMMARY:

Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

---

## Page 16

ALVARADO Ugarte, Gilberto Nolasco

In the following are cited those portions (including

footnotes): of the SCHWEIKER Report pertaining to Gilberto ALVARADO.

Comments relating to these portions are in roman charachters.

At noon on November 25,

"D", a Latin American, appeared

at the American Embaasy in Mexico City. 35

(EN:

This incident is

discussed in the Warren Report, pp. 308, 309; Cable from Mexico

Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/25/63. [Comment:

The first cable

in the file announcing ALVARADO's claim is MEXI -7067 (IN 68291)

26 Norbor 1963 AYARADO at no tine appeared as the Anórican

Embassy

some of our own reporting is in error, e gi DIR 85089

26 November 1963, a dissemination to FBI, State, and the White

House, states:

50m 26 November 1963, Gilberto ALVARADO, a prO-

fessed Castroite Nicaraguan

-came to the American Embassy in

Mexico and made a statement about Lee OSWALD." According to ALVA

RADO's interrogation by Mexican authorities, he called the Ameri

can Embassy on 25 November and "sueceeded in speaking to a high

ficial with whom ho mado an appointment for that one day ate

5:30 p.n. near. the Hotel Maria Isabel: Iva individuals appeared

for the appointment." According to a note in the Mexico Station

file, signed by the Embassy Security Officer, A. C. PLAMBECK -

dated 25 November = these two men were SNIGHT and PLAMBECK; botb

were Embassy security officers.] He told Embassy personnel that he

was in the cuban consulate on September 1? and saw Cubans who dis-

cussed assassination pay OSWALD a sum of money. [Comment: During

his first meeting with Embassy officials, ALVARADO claimed he had

been at the Cuban Consulate on the isth of September, not the 17th.

In fact, at no time, did he refer to the date i7 September.

7.304

Later,

5329.22

during his interrogation in connection with the polygraph examina-

tion on 6 December 1963, ALVARADO revealed hi was "unsure of the

day of week allegedly saw OSWALD. Thinks that it was on Tuesday"

which would have been 17 September. (MEXI-7289 (IN 75588), 7 Decem-

ber 1963) .]. He later repeated his story to the CIA Mexico

station

---

## Page 17

2

Chief.

[Comment: At no time, at least there is no mention in the

files, did ALVARADO repeat his story to the "CIA Mexico Station

Chief" ALVARADO first-told his story, as indicated above, to two

n94525027"

officors from the Embassy Security Office.

The next morning, he

net with PLAMBECK-from the Embassy-Security Office, and a Station

officer.

During another meeting that evening (26 November), ALVA-

RADO was interrogated by twa officers from the Station.

(Nore for

the Record, dated 25 November 1963, signed by PLAMBECK; Memorandum

for Clark ANDERSON, Legal Attache, dated 29 November 1963, from

Winston M. SCOTT.) I The CIA and the Warren Commission later con-

cluded that the story was a fabrication, but the agency was clearly

concerned with "D"s story at the time. 36

"D' later admitted

that the story about OSWALD had been fabricated.

Cable from Mexico

X/4673

City

227262

to CIA Headquarters, 11/30/63. It had also been determined

by the FBI that OSWALD was probably in New Orleans on September

Cable from-CIA Headquarters to Mexico Station, 11/28/63. [Comment

There were

actually two cables, DIR 85258,

27 November 1963, and

DIR 85653, 28 November 1963, which indicated OSWALD was in New

Orleans on 17 and 19 September 1963.]

Later in that day 126 November 1963], the Mexico Station

cabled Headquarters on the details of its interrogation of "D'

(EN: Cable from Mexico Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/26/63.

MEXI -7069

(IN 68376), 26 November 19631 It also reported other

information from 'a

sensitive and reliable source which tended to

confirm "D"s story that OswALd may have been paid by the Cubans

to assassinate President Kennedy. [Comment: It would appear from

this statement, the authors of the report were referring to MEXI-

7069

7069 (IN 68376); however, this cable does not contain any remarks

alluding to information which "tended to confirm "D's' story"

10922)

This information appears in MEXI-7072 (IN 68406), 26 November 1963

which contains Ambassador MANN'S message to RUSK, McCONE,:

and

HOOVER. MANN's statement reads as follows:

White we recognize

lack of established reliability of Nicaraguan and danger of reaching

---

## Page 18

3.

hasty conclusions, we suggest that DORTICOS. preoccupation with

money angle of interrogation of Silvia DURAN tends to corroborate

to some extent authenticity of the Nicaraguan's statement. Thus,

there appears-to be a strong-possibility that a down payment was

made to OSWALD-in-the Guban-Embassy there, presumably with-promise

of a subsequent payment after assassination." The Ambassador was

reading somewhat more into the situation than was the case. the

222

reference to DORTICOS_- the Cuban President - relates to two tele-

phone conversation berveen DORTICOS and HERVANDEZ, the Cuban Amba-

ssador to Mexico, on 26 November 1963.

tracewere tracer

The first conversation,

which took place at 0924, was forwarded, in resume, to Headquarters

1002 68 30682

on. 26 November 1963-(MEXI-7068 IN

) the second conversation,

which took place at 1839, was forwarded,

in

"resume »

me, to Headquarters

on 27 November 1963 (MEXI-7097 IN

In the first conversa.

tion DORTICOS asks (if) "the Federals of that country wanted Senora

DURAN to say something, that they had some interest in, and had

offered some money to the American?" To which HERNANDEZ answers

that there was nothing about money.

In the second conversation,

DORTICOS is quoted as saying:

"I was referring as

to whether, they

had threatened her

so that she would make a statement that the Con

sulate had given money to the man - that American.! HERNANDEZ ans

wered that "nothing absolutely was given her" [sic].. It would not

appear from a close reading of these two conversations. that they

contain information "which tended to confirm 'D's' story

This report has never been satisfactorily explained, although it

was made available to the warren Commission staff. In any event,

these reports certainly must have fueled suspicions of Cuban in-

424026184

volvement in the assassinatión. Based on the evidence it reviewed,

2/25, 20 Da

the Warren Commission later determined that "y's story was a fabri

cation. [Comment: This statement appears to be gratitous the

Warren- Commission-did not ask about the ALVARADO case until 21

April-1964. On- that date RANKIN addressed a letter to Richard

HELMS in which he-stated inter alia "We are aware, of course;

from previous reports that the allegations made by ALVARADO were

---

## Page 19

4...

thoroughly investigated by Central Intelligence Agency and Federal

Bureau of Investigation representatives in Mexico City in liaison

with-the responsible Mexican law enforcement authorities. Refer

ence is-made to the discussion of these allegations in your memo

randum dated January 31, 1964, at pages 11: 14.

"Upon-review-of our complete file on this matter,-we

find that we lack full documentation of the investigation conducted

of these allegations. It would be helpful if our records could be.

supplemented by a report from your Agency supplying more details

regarding the investigation undertaken by your Agency and other con

23iF0z4

cerned Agencies into this matter and your evaluation as to the truth

of ALVARADO's assertions.:

In particular, it would be helpful if a

report could be submitted by the expert who conducted the polygraph

examination which emphasizes the specific conclusions which he made:

based on the responses by ALVARADO in answering key questions on

this matter.". (Letter to Richard HELMS, DDP, dated 21 April 1964,

from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.) The Agency responded on

June 1964. (Memorandum to J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964, from

Richard HELMS, DDP; Subject: Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.)]

The American Ambassador in Mexico later sent a cable

[MEXI-7072 (IN 68406) ; 26 November 1963] to State Department through

CIA channels.

In that cable he gave his opinion that the cubans

were involved in the assassination, and recommended certain inves-

tigative steps which should be taken in Mexico.

• 40 TEN:

Cable from

Mexico station to CIA Headquarters, 11/26/63.)

By November 27, the Mexico Station and CIA Headquarters

were also beginning to question the accuracy. of "dis stroy.

The

cables between the Mexico Station and Headquarters indicate the

possibitity that the story was a fabrication. Neverthetess, on

November 28, Headquarters cabled a reminder to the Mexico Station

to "follow all leads"-The-Station was instructed to continue in-

vestigating the possibility of cuban or soviet involvement, because

Headquarters had not excluded the possibility. that other persons

---

## Page 20

5

were involved with OSWALD. 44 (FN: A cable from CIA Headquarters

to Mexico station, 11128/03-1 (DIR 85655, 28 November 1963}

Later that day 127 Novemberl Headquarters learned that

-Mexican authoritico planned to arrest silvia DURAN again and warned

the station that the Mexicano must take responsibility for the ar

rest. After learning that the l.s. Ambassador-was continuing to

press for a vigorous investigation into. Cuban involvement. Head-

quarters also warned the station Chief that the Ambassador was

pushing the case too hard and his proposals could lead to a "flap"

with the cubang. 46 (IN: A cable from CIA Headquarters to Mexico

station, 11/28/63. [DIR 85655, 28 November 1963] Finally, the

Agency concluded that "D"'s story was a fabrication and terminated

its interest in him..

47* (FN: Ibid.)?

On November 30, Director MeCONE met with the President

at 17 a.m.:

While there was a discussion of the allegations

made by "D' the memorandum records no action was required on the

"OSWALD situation". 49 (EN: Memo-andum for the Record by Director

MeCone, 12/2/63) [Conment: Memorandum not available in the file l

On December 1, MeCONE met with the president and BUNDy:

McCONE's memörandum of the meeting indicates they again discussed

"D"'s story... Later that day, Headquarters cabled the Mexico Station

and stated that the White House had been told the story was a fabri.

cation.

Later that day [2 Decemberl, the Mexico Sta-

reported it had reason to doubt its earlier conclusion that "D"

was fabricating. (Comment: The authors of the Report give no

source for this statement.. Moreover, they leave the reader in the

air as to what was the outcome of further investigation to deter

-mine whether-the-earlier-conclusion-that ALAVARDO was fabricating

was an accurate conclusion. The facts are-as follows:

On 2 December, Captain WHEELOCK*saw ALAVARDO during the

* Captain FranklIn Anthony Moc Garcia, chiet of the dael-

Communist Section of the Nicaraguan Office of National Security,

IM/2

---

## Page 21

6

On 2 December, Captain WHEELOCK) saw ALVARADO during che

afternoon for the first time. In a brief interview, which lasted

only seven-minutes, in the company of two Mexican officials,

ALVARADO reverted to his previous story.. He claimed he did see

OSWALD and that he did call the Embassy to report.

-(Latter state-

ment not supported by Embassy investigation.) ALVARADO went on to

say that he told the Mexicans he was fabricating because he was

"mentally mistreated", specifically because he was threatened that

he would be hanged by the testicles. Actually he was not physically

mistreated. (WHEELOCK said he was unable to come to any definite

conclusion as to ALVARADO's veracity; however, he would be able to

do so once he returned to Managua and had a chance to complete the

interrogation. "(MEXI-7023 IN 71702, 2 December, 1963)

On 3 December

1963, Headquarters tells the Mexico Sta-

tion that although Headquarters is confident that ALVARADO is a

fabricator and that his retraction of his confession is false, it

has been decided that he should be placed on the polygraph... Head-

quarters asks that the Station arrange to have ALVARADO released

to CIA custody for several days and ask WHEELOCK] to remain in Mexi-

co to assist.

A polygraph operator from the Office of Security will

arrive on 4. December. He will be incharge of the polygraph inter-

view, but will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON (Legal Attache) , who

has been selected as an interpreter:

The FBI will notify ANDERSON

of this. (DIR 86563, 3 December 1963)

* Captain Franklin Anthony WHBELOCK Garcia, Chief of the Anti-

Communist Section of the Nicaraguan Office of National Security,

arrived in Mexico City on 29 November 1963. /WHEELOCK/went to

Mexico in response to Mexico Station's request for assistance in

interrogating ALVARADO. For further details see accompanying

chronological summary.on Gilberto ALVARADO

---

## Page 22

- 7

ECHEVARRIA, the Acting Minister of obernacion, agreed

to permit CIA to "borrow" ALVARADO.. The plan was to pick up

ALVARADO on 5 December and return him that evening.: (MEXI-7229

IN-72877, 3-December 1963) ALVARADO was picked up as planned and

underwent preliminary questioning-on 5 December.-

The next-day-he-

underwent a polygraph interview. The results of this interview

indicated that ALVARADO was fabricating-hisstory Interrogation

197332

revealed that hewas unsure as to the exact day of the week he alle:

7000%

gedly saw OSWALD: He thought it was on a Tuesday which would have

+ 200326

been the 17th of September.

When ALVARADO was shown a series of

photographs during the testing, deception patterns became evident

When he was confronted with this he answered that he had the utmos

confidence in the polygraph and that it must be correct? The in

terrogation was concluded with ALVARADO admicting he must have made

an "honest mistake"' in relating the original story in his identifi

cation of OSWALD. • (MEXI-7289 IN 75588, 7 December)

Following the receipt of the results of the above inter

view with ALVARADO, Headquarters disseminated the results to the

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

"The re-interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

Nicaraguan-informant who claimed to have seen

Lee OSWALD receive money to assassinate Kennedy,

has been concluded..

Our Mexico City Station ad-

vises us that ALVARADO admitted he must have

been mistaken in saying that he saw OSWALD in

Also, he was uncertain of

the date on which he might have seen someone

like OSWALD and thought it must have been on a

ruesday, which would have made it 17 September

Although the final report of the poly.

graph interview is not yet available, the pre-

liminary, finding is that ALVARADO evidenced

deception reactions when talking about OSWALD.

"It is expected that ALVARADO will be de-

ported to Nicaragua on 9 December 1963.

"A representative of your Bureau partici

pated in the interrogation of ALVARADO."

(DIR 87667, 7 December 1963)

Except for forwarding to the Warren Commission various

reported material'on ALVARADO, the Agency had completed its inves

tigation of the allegation that the Cuban Consulate had given

---

## Page 23

OSWALD six thousand five hundred dollars to assassinate an un-

named-target.-

---

## Page 24

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY: Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

18 September 1963

According to ALVARADO's statements made during an

1At0F

*63625

view conducted in the marning of 26 November 1963 by an Americar

Embassy security officer and a member of the Mexico Station in

Mexico City, ALVARADO went at noon on 18 September to the Cüban

Consulate to turn over passport photographs to the Cuban Consul

54002

Eusebio AZCUE:

While standing by a rest room"off a passage

way leading to a patio, ALVARADO saw a group of three persons con

versing on the patio a few feet away.

One man was a tally thin

Negro with reddish hair, obviously dyed. He had prominent cheek

bones, and a noticeable scar on the lower right side of his chin.

He spoke radpidly with a Cuban accent and did Speak some English

Another member of the group was a white

person whom ALVARADO had

seen previously in the waiting room, carrying a Canadian passport.

The Canadian had green eyes

s, blondish hair combed in' an "existen-

191424079.

tialisty manner, with a pompadour. He was wearing dark eyeglasses

03020074

of a type with a mirror like reflection on the outer surface.

ONE CROSSES

third member of the group was Lee Harvey OSWALDe He yes waer uga

black sport cost buttoned up white shirt with short collar tabs,

no tie, gray pants, and clear eyeglasses

ALVARADO saw a tall Cuban join the group momentarily and

534190069035106

807-2/277

pass American currency to the Negro.

This unidentified Cuban ap-

parently came out of AZUE's office onto the patio.

ALVARADO des

cribed the Cuban as a tail,

396231

solidly built mulatto, with curly hair,

who appeared to be about 37 years old.

22204383

He was wearing a brown suit

and a red-striped tie.

ALVARADO never saw this man again after i8

September:

ALVARADO claimed he overheard the following conversation

between the Negro and OSWALD:

Negro (in English):

OSWALD

"I want to kill the man"

Youlre not man enough.

lcan do

Sit."

---

## Page 25

Vegro (1m Spanish) 3%

" can't go with you

shave.

3a310T

cordo

OSWALD

The people are

waiting for

there.

The Negro gave OSWALD six. thousand five hundred dollars

In large denomination US bills saying

This isn't much tof the

sun, one thousand ve hundred doflars. was for extra expenses

Negro atso gave him abour 200 Mexican pesos.

Later? ALVARADO saw a pretty girl, whom he betreved co be

a Cuban employee of the consulate give OSWALD an abrazo embrace

and tell him she was living at Callo Juares number 407

Where

could find her

The girlappeared. to abour 20-years.al

manners which reminded AlVARADO of a prostitute

LOSWAJAD

and the Canadian then went upstairs

ALVARADO left the butiding momentarily to buy popsicle

on the corner, he saw the above three men leave byache: Embassy, gate

near the corner of Tacubaya, where they entered a parked black car

possibly a Chvrolet

At the end of September,

ALVARADO telephoned the American

Embassy several times to report his belief that-someones important

in the United States was co be killed.

When ALVARADO saw OSWALD's photograph in the newspaper,

he again. contacted the Embassy on 25 November:

IMEXT-7069 (IN 68376) , 26 November 19631

25 November 1963

ALVARADO called the United States Embassy

That same

evening he met with the Embassy security officer.

(MEXL-7168, (IN 70860), 30 November 19631

[Comment: According to the Mexican police report of

the interroga

Zion of ALVARADO, che latter called the American Embassy

and

"succeeded in speaking to a high official with whom

he made an-

ap:

pointment for that same day at 5:30 pom. near the Hotel Maria

:***•-*31

Isabel.

---

## Page 26

Two individuals appeared for the the 5:30 appointment:

They identified themselves and were carrying the credentials-ofe

FBI agents.* ALVARADO told about his seeing OSWALD, etc. Another

appointment was made for 9:15 the next morning at the Jena Restau

rant

[HMMA - 22561, 5 December 1963; CSCT-3/779, 136, 13 December 19631

SS989

["Comment: The two individuals were SNIGHT, the embassy securty

officer, and A. C PLAMBECK (P), Mexican Station officer.:

ALVARADO

134664053005

way have mistaken Embassy identification documents for FBI ereden

25 November 1963

ALVARADO Claimed inter alia that-two persons were

Cuban Embassy the morning of -25 November 1963 at 1100 who.

aT e

volved in the plot to assassinate President Kennedya

He describe

them as one being a white person with a large cleft nose.

other had closed cropped hair with a copote fsich.

ALVARADO claims that on the 18th of September, he was

i Pete

the Cuban Embassy in Moxico Gity and ho saw Loo Harvey OSWALD

ceive: $6, 500.10

OSKALD was speaking with a Begro, about 2a year

age, who had a scar. on his jaw, and had reddish hair which is pro

bably tinted

The Negro spoke English well and might be a North

American OSWALD was speaking of eliminating someone

The Negro

then said he was sorry that he could accompany OSWALD, saying

12732409

"You understand my situation." To which OSWALD replied.

That

all right, I can do this myself."

The "source" (ALVARADO 2) was of the opinion chat OSWALD

had come from Havana, When OSWALD entered (the Consulate n he

was affectionately greeted by a female employee of the Cüban Em

bassy, sa

who has blue eyes and lives at Calle Juarez 407

The "source" also stated that OSWALD was given $1, 500

for extra expenses. Source stated that when he went to the bath-

room he saw OSWALD counting the money, in American dollars, on the

patio which is adjacent.

---

## Page 27

[Blind memorandum dated 25 November 1963]

L Comment:

*There is no indication in

the file that. any

follow-up

was made on the information given in

this

paragraph.

This parti

cular information appears no where else in ALVARADO interroga

tions.]

26 November: 1963.3

ALVARADO meets the same two men from the Embassy whom he

had the evening before, at the Jena Restaurant on the Avenida More

los and the Paseo de la Reforma.

The two men, were accompanied by

a third man named Rodolfo CAVALDON, ALVARADO went with, these three

men to the cafeteria of the Hotel Erancis after which they drove

up and down a fewstreets. ALVARADO told them again what he had

"observed in the Cuban Consulate and they gave him 100 pesos

and

told him they woudl call him at the number: 41-07-31 which is th

telephone, number of the place where ALVARADO was ving

*ALVARAI

was called the same day at 8:45 p.m. and was cold to meet

the three

mer, later in front of the Juarez monument.

(Blind memorandum,

dated 25 November 1963- Memorandun to Cler

ANDERSON, Legal Artache, dated 29 November 1963; Ahd HMMA-22561

5 December 7963, and CSCt =3/719,136, 13 December 1963

26 November: 1963

station officer and local security officer are inter.

viewing a Nicaraguan who claims that on 18 September he saw Lee

OSWALD received six thousand five hundred dollars during a meerin:

Inside the cuban Embassy in Mexico City

MEXI-7067 (7N 68291)

26 November 1963]

[Comment: This- cable was the first report to Headquartors on th

allegations made by ALVARADO.]

26 November 1963

At the appointed place and time the evening of 26 Novem.

ber, Rodolfo CAVALDON meets ALAVARADO T

They take a cab to che

corner of the Hotel Maria Isabel where another Americans s

-waitin

---

## Page 28

for them, together they cross the street and enter an apartment in

building at the corner of Oxford and Reforma.

13/033

After, talking with

these men, ALVARADO received 500 pesos

and was told to move

hotel and to tell them which hotel he moved

he moved into.

[HMMA - 22561, 5 December 1963; CSCI-3/779,136, 13 December 19631

---

## Page 29

26 November 1963 (date of Cable)

Sonaqua Station reporte on donedy os AARADO one

suggests:

that "Should Case develop to point where Mexico and Head

quarters believerit desireable to break ALVARADO, the Station

could probably arrange to have NIC officer who handled him come

8.0

Mexico to quescion him.!

-2092 00748224053

MANA 4609 (IN 68452), 26 November 19631

(Comment NIC a Nicaraguan Security Service.)

26-November 1963'

(date of dissemination)

202222632

issemination py cable to the FBis State and thes

House

36

On 26 November 1963 Gilberto: ALVARADO

professed Castroite Nicaraguan borne31 January

1940 In Cludad Rama, Zelaya, Nicaragua,

o came

anto the American Embassy in Mexicoyand madeta

#statement/about Lee OSWALD. He said chat on

28 September 2963 he saw Lee OSWALD receive

six thousand five hundred dollars in a meeting

inside the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City

18.2

About himself

ALVARADO Sata hE

City awaiting false documentation so he could"

go to Cuba for sabotage training ZHe name 2a

three other members of his organization in Ni

caragua as Jyan LORILLO, Rolan ALVARADO, and

CarIOs FONSECA Amador.

Questioning of ALVARADO

is continuing:

Lv3. (Comment: Gliberto ALVARADO Is a well-known

Nicaraguan communist underground member who is

also a regular informant of the Nicaraguan Security

service and offfeer of which has provided this

Agency with his reports for overa year. ave cons

sider his reliability to be questionable although

the has not been wholly discredited. The-other men

she names: are well-known Nicaraguan communists..

95 A:

check of the files of this Agency does not show

where Lee OSWALD actually was on

18. September: 1963

when ALVARADO says he saw OSWALD in the Cuban Em

but based on the information h

assyane to chis Agency as of this date OSWALD

mvisited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico for the first.

time after 25 September 1963.)%

(DIR 85089, 20 November 1963)

27 November 1963

Headquarters suggests to Mexico Station, that

investigation, suggest you contact ALVARADIS NIC

Case

---

## Page 30

In Mexico City and ask him whether ALVARADO has ever told him this

story ortanything like it."

DIR 85178, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico Station that !After considera

tion by BRENT and KNIGHT, we feel that investigation and analysis

Of ALVARADO's story should be pursued further before more excutive

action is taken

[DIR 85198,

27 November 1963]

27 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters makes dissemination to FBl, States and che

White House Incorporating information forwarded to Headquarters

In -MEXI-7069 CIN 68376 26 November 1963 (q.v.)

[DIR: 85199, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963

ALVARADO's story being checked as thoroughly as Station

assets make possible.

He also being. re-intervieved in much greater

S2334R8965030380

detail. ALVARADO is being moved to safe address.

MEX 1095 C 09550) 27 November 190% 2002022

29 November 1963 (date of cable) /

Two Station officers interviewed ALVARADO in safehouse

again night of 26 November.

ALVARADO's Story remained

substan

tially the same. ALVARADO says he has been to Cuban. Consulate on

2 or 3 September, 15 or 16 September, 18 September, 26 September

and 25 November. The Station comments that "Station photographic

coverage of the Cuban Embassy did not include consulate gate un

October: ALVARADO did not appear in photographs of persons us

Embassy gate: He admits vistzing the Soviet Embassy tor 7 ri

however, he has not been identified in photographic coverage of

Sovior Embassy:

[MEXI-7098 (IN 69127) 27 November 1963]

---

## Page 31

27 November$1963

ambassador send message

via CIA Channels to RUSK

McCONE, and HOOVER in which he suggest inter alia that Washington

"should urgently consider feasibility of requesting Mexican authori

469/44

ties to arrest for interrogation: Eusebio AZCUE, Luisa: CALDERON

and Alfredo MIRABAL

(MEXI-7104 (IN 69225), 27 November 1963}

27 November: 1963 (date of cable)

FBI Says: OSWALD applied for unemployment insurance in

New Orleans on september, one day betore ALVARANO Says her saw

him in Coban Embassy Mexico. BE checking

all

no could have flown

to Moxico by

18 September

-Ho

waS

Orleans on 25 September

and left that day for Texas without paying

his rent.

He is belleved to have been without funds duringchis

period. FBI says his New Orleans landlady believes he

there

152N 20

continuously between

17 and 25 September

[DIR, 85258, 27 November 19631

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

According to Mexico Station, ALVARADO story afteretwo

stallments tends prove only that he has been in Cuban Embassy and

knows some of employees by sight, name or both. To resolve, doub

only effective way is to have cooperation of Major JEREZ directed

by dis headquarters in interrogating ALVARÁDO.

If HQ agrees sug

gest he be cabled ursently to cooperate without quescion.

with

American officer who will contact him morning 28 November.

wishes JEREZ be present during interrogation to throw all Nicaragua

M22D BACCORS

official weight behind it, but not to participate exceptin portion

4220%

9500S23

relative ALVARADO'S alleged mission toF SERELe

217520062

[MEXI-7107 (IN 69310) 27 November 19631

27 November 1963

F Headquarters

states that "in the face of mounting evi

donce that ALVARADO is fabricating his story of seeing

OsvALD take money in the Cuban Embassy, urse you fol.

for up with his local Mic case officer and ayats

---

## Page 32

of che help of

to help

In the interrogation. We find it meredible

that the Cubans would brief and pay an assassin

in front of a NIC interloper. We think it pos-

sible or even likely that he has been in and out

of the Cuban Embassy as a NIC agent trying to

infiltrate Cuba and has picked up the names and

faces there in so doing All he has said about

OSWALD he could have gotten from the newspapers

except for certain incorrect items such as his

statement

that OSWALD wore glasses. see

2. The fact that ALVARADO is a calm, nice, and

intelligent young man does not mean he is not a

fabricator.

FYI we and other agencies are being

flooded by fabrications on the OSWALD case from

several continents, some ariginating with people

on: the fringes of the intelligence business..n

Such fabrication are not usually done for money,

but out of sickly fancy and a desire to getinto

the intelligence game.

13.

We do not think id a remarkable coincidence

that boch, DORTICOS and ALVARADO talk about money

paid to OSWALD. For one thing, pay for an assassin

is a factor which immediately rises in the mind of

expert and layman alike.

Secondly, DORTICOS may,

have heard through some Russian or Cuban source

in the Mexican Government that DURAN was asked

whether the Cubans paid OSWALD for the alleged

assignment.

та 18 ка

ADA D01:

a nt him back thang tha

DIR 85616,

27 November 1963]

Captain Franklin' Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia.

28 November 1965 (date of cable)

Name encrypted

a texto

FBI says their follow-up investigation of OSwALD's acct

vittes has spoduced "reasonable indications" that he, was in New

Orleans on 19 September 1963.-

This, coupled with eart

that he was in New Orleans applying for unemployment

1nSUraRCA

17 September 1963, means OSWALD would have had to

fly

Mexico

95660:

22271

back between 17 and 19 September in order to be at the

*Cuban

getting his pay-off, as ALVARADO claims,

on 18 September

With

133.3

this added information, believe Mexico can confidently regard

db03i0ita:

ALVARADO as fabricator and tailor interrogation accordingly.

[DIR 85653, 28 November 1963]

---

## Page 33

28 November: 1963

Headquarters

informs: Mexico that

"1: We have just heard by phone from KINGMAN,

whats at homes

that MEXI evaluation of ALVARADO

story may have been seriously varped by a pieced

kof misinformation which has crept into this case

From conversation with your officers, KINGMAN

has the impression that they believe there is

other evidence that Lee OSWALD made a bank dey

posit of five thousand dollars-in the United

States after he gor back from Mexico on 3 October

1963. This would tend, if true, to corroborate

ALVARADO's story that he saw OSWALD ger five

thousand for the job and fifteen hundred for ex

penses. KINGMAN thinks he heard that CURTIS

Winston SCOTT) got the information about the

bank, deposit from an FBI man named Clark.

"2. we know of no such bank deposta and have n

never heard of one.

FBI here haspjust affirmed

they never heard this story.

The story of ther

doposit of fivo thousand dollars is thorofore

almost certainly erroneous Please check it

with ERithere Ne have advised FRi that ch

rumor exists in Mexico.

3%

74 01

Filthas just revied on us official request

for full information on source and origin of

rumor about a five thousand dollar bank deposi

[DIR: 85650

28 November 1963}

28 November 1963

Headquarters stresses to Mexico that there should

be no let down in your effort to follow all loads and vase gate

all facts which bear on this case. We have by no means excluded

the possibility chat other as yet unknown persons may save beer

volved or oven that other powors may have played a role

37256,

continue all your caverage of Soviet and

Cuban

your liaison with Mexicans

DIR: 85655,

28 November- 1963]

[Comment:

This remark by Headquarters was in support of its poss

tion in response to Ambassador MANN's earlier message,

in which

Headquarters expressed its distinct feeling that

"the

Ambassador

is pushing this case too

hard, and

To.

might well

Create

flap

with Cubans which could have

sèrious

repercussions:

---

## Page 34

28 November 1963

Mexico Station requests OPIM authoritization turn ALVARADC

over to Mexican authorities with a brief explanation he claims to

5462988:55

be witness to payoff to OSWALD in Cuban consulate 18 September,

admits 15 in Mexico Illegally, admits Communist Party membership,

admits visits to Soviet Embassy, claims that Cuban consutare now

involved in documenting him with false Mexican papers for travel

to Cuba. latter point alone would give Mexican authorities good

26S654603

reason to subject him to detailed interrogation.

MEXI -7113 CIN

S• 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters responded ra the Sration's request (see

above) by saying not to turn ALVARADO over to the Mexicans. "We

have officially asked the FBI for their position on this move, and

pending the FBI'S answer and our final consideration, ALVARADO

should not be

surfaced to the Mexicans or turned overato them:

326

Advise us if the FBI in Mexico attempts to get you

to act one way or the other on the question of turning AEVARADO

26209

over to the Mexicans."

Headquarters concludes its message to Mexico by commentin

that Larry KEENAN, an fBI agent, is now in Mexico.

He was sent

especially to follow up leads on the entire assassination.

quarters asks that the Station cooperate wich him fully

[DIR 85661, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates by cable to the FBI State,

and the White House.

the information obtained from ALVARADO during

we Deat

night of 26 November 1963 informacion obtained from ALVARADO on

the tatter date was forwarded to Headquarters in MEXT 7098 CI

5912?), 2? November 1963 (See appropriato entry above.

[DER 85662, 28 Novembor 19631

za vonember 1903

---

## Page 35

28: November 1963

Mexico Station reports that

" Mr Clark ANDERSON, Legal Attache, told

the COs and Ambassador MANN of rumor thar

MOSWALD had deposited five thousand dollars

in a bank in the united Stares 2a

92072301

902.

On 27 November Ambassador in presence

Mof COS asked ANDERSON about this again and

ANDERSON said rumor was on television and

radio in Mexico.

ANDERSON said he had no

information from his Headquarters to con-

firm or deny this. He said he would checke

whis Headquarters.

4"3. COs has not heard rumor regarding five.

thousand dollar deposit on celerision on

radio but feels sure ANDERSON or some ofte

his office did hear this. This Station had

no additional information concerning thick

but assume ALVARADO may have beard same:

radio or television report andathus have had

basts For five thousand. dellar payment

IMEXI-7114 CIN: 696210

28. November 196312

28 November 1963

The

stated that

1913

arrequested General

cooperation Mexico through Major JERFZ and if

possible by sending Captain

Mexico N

Tsaid ALVARADO in Mexico with

our (Service's) authority and passed off sug

gestionaise TEREZ but agreed immediately to

send

-Ho:

process gerting visa and plane reservations

and will probably be in Mexico raday unless

Headquarters and Mexico wish to cancel.rzo

nad

Even though his story regarding OSWALD

maybe talse it possible he has been workings

other angle to penetrate Cubans and

will be able to assist in getting facts straight

(IN 69629) 28 November 19631

[* General

I Chief of Intelligence service,

Nicaraguan Army•

(Name encrypted in text.)

Major Roger JEREZ Alfaro, Military Attache,

Nicaraguan

Embassy, Mexico City:

Cäptain

Chief

of

Anti

Connunise Soction of the office of National Security or Chane

encrypted in text.)

---

## Page 36

over to Mexican authorities and that the Agency

request Mexican authorities to interrogate

ALVARADO in detail:

"2. The FBI reports that it understands that

Mexican authorities have a capability of poly

graphing and requests

that the Agency request

Mexican authorities that he be polygraphed.

"3. The, FBI expressed a desire to have the

results of the interrogation as soon as possible

and that the Legal Attache be kept advised of

developments.

The FBI takes the position that inasmuch as

•Silvia DURAN may be released some time today- (28

November. according to information which the FB

has-from the Legal Attache,:

ALVARADO should be

turned over to the Mexican as soon as possible,

so that their stories can be checked against each

wother.

D'5.

*Mexico Station is instructed to carry out the

FBI's requests set out above..

•Give full coopora

stion colthe legal Attachest

[DIR 85663, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

reports that

a Captain National, and chief of the Anti-Communist Section

of the Office of National Security, will arrive in Mexico at 0945

on 29 November 1963.

9/2/899

(IN 68671), 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates the following to the FBI

State Department

Pand White House:

'Acting on a request made to this Agency by

Che: Federal

Bureau of Investigation on 28

November: 1963, our Agency is instructing its

office in Mexico city to turn over Gilberto

ALVARADO, Nicaraguan informant who claims that

he saw Lee OSWALD accept six thousand five hurt

hundred dollars in the

City on 18 September 1963 to assassinate Presi:

dent Kennedy, to officials of the Mexican Minis

try of Government for further interrogation

-investigation. On 28 November, ALVARADO had

still not changed his story, despite increasing

doubt that it was true.

gence Service, for which ALVARADO once worked,

is dispatching a senior official to Mexico City

leo assist in the interrogation and investigation

at the discretion of the Federal Bureau of In

vestigation.

Notification of the appropriate

InV

---

## Page 37

Mexican office for, the

Sturnover was effected

acy 630 Washington time on 28 November 1963K

mang

(DIR 85666 28 November 1963}

[Comment

This cable is the first cime that President Kennedy

was mentioned as the target of OSWALD's alleged mission described

by ALVARADO The conversation between the red-haired Negro and

OSWALD, as reported by ALVARADO, makes no mention of a specific

person.]

28 November: 1963

Mexico Station requests that a Spanish-speaking poly

graph operator be made avatiable: for ALVARADO and possibly for

others

[MEXI - 71203 CTN

Loovember 1963]

28- November 1963%

Headquarters responds that therests no Spanishespeaking

polygraph operator:

#2. For reasons of security, and compartmenta-

tion, prefer not to have Agency operator doublo

tracked with Mexican operator. Would only cons

use the case. prefer to wait until all Mexi

an resources exhausted before werdecide if we

swant to resume management of case,

Princluding

polygraph.

notice."

Seasoned operators avallable here on short

[DIR 85667, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that

EPD.7"

COS in contact with acting Minister of

Gobernacion Luis ECHEVARRIA at 1430 hrs Mexi

co City time and ECHEVARRIA grateful that

CALVARADO being turned over to Gobernacion

HERSEL

WZ. ECHEVARRIA waS given ALVARADO's present

address and alias under which he registered.

Mexicans will pick him up and question

on basis of very brief story given ECHEVARRIA

by COS:

[MEXI -7124 (IN.

28 November 19631

---

## Page 38

:29 November: 1963

Mexico Station reports that the COS is handling the

OSWALD case personally and that continuous Tiaison withethe

Ambassador and the Legal Attache is necessary:

The " COS wishes

to control these contacts personally.

THEXT -7126 (TN. 70104) , 29 November 1963J

29 November 1963

An official of the Ministry of Governacion reported to

the Station that ALVARADO claims he present inside the Cuban En

bassy when OSWALD given six thousand five hundred dollars:

Station comments that ALVARADO gave the Mexteans the same story

Sagar

ho gavo Station officers.

One difference is that ALVARADO faile

to identify Silvia DURAN Exon several photographs be

shown

ALVARADO had identified her when he was being questioned

berthe

Station.

•[MEXL-7127 (IN 70145), 29 November 1963]

29: November 1963

Headquarters asks Mexico Station

(ro) continue

to keep us filled in on status of interrogation of Silvia DURAN

ALVARADO, and others implicated as fast as you can get information

We have no other ready source of information on these cases.

quest you utilize capable officer for liaison with Gobernacion to

skim off details and relay them to your office for cabling to us?

at regular intervals. Request status report, even negative by

0900 Mexico time. Be sure to keep us informed of what information

if any is leaked to public information media."

[DIR 85672, 29 November 19631

29 November 1963

In the interest of speed, Headquarters wishes

to be

"sure that you are immediately giving the Legal Attache everything

you

get about ALVARADO and DURAN so the Legal Attache

• Mexico

City can cable the same data direct to FBI Headquarters.

Please

---

## Page 39

satisfy yourself that che Legal

Attache there has adequate commo

facilities and secretarial staff to keep its Headquarters informed.

as fast

as you keep us informed, and advise us on thiss

If you find that the Legal Attache there does not

have adequate commo. or staff and wants

to rely on usa co reray, the

material,:

they may of sourse send messages right chrough ouc

channols, or you can rely on us to relay the information as we

have beer

DIR 85712,8

29 November 1963]

29 November 1963

ELOR

responded to the abovermessage

ng.

-char

TherLegal Attache is locally being advised

by, COS personally of everything Station rearns

concerning OSWALD Case and. now, on ALVARADO:

interrogation

2..

Fell sure chat Legal Attache's office, which

almost same size as the Station, has adequate

staff for reporting needs:

1688A

Usual procedure here is that COS notiftes

Headquarters, reports to the Legal Attache and

to the Ambassador orally then subsequently ad

vises the legal artache by memorandum.

xc. Headquarters is

assured that

a11 information

known to Station on these cases is being given to

them and shortly after information obtained

{MEXI 7128 (EN 70162), 39 November 1963]

29 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates to the FBI eState department

and the White House that "The first very sketchy

report on the pro

gress of the Mexican official interrogation of Griberto ALVARADO

S6 22206640

Mexican official doing the interrogation of ALVARADO says he

09 3 2602366

"doubts" ALVARADO's story and will begin work to break

kim

DIR 85744 29 November 1963}

1270S

29 November 1963

thief of Mexico Station forwards

memor andun

GLar

---

## Page 40

LANDERSON, Legal Attache, containing the results of three inter.

222-C312220

views, conducted by the local security officer and members of the

Mexican Station on 26 November 1963, of Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO

25200440221049

Ugarte. (See memorandum for complete textel

29. November 1963

-Official of Ministry of Gobernacion stated that after

his first session with ALVARADO he believed ALVARADO's story to be

a fantastic lie, after second session and all previous and interim

interrogations, ALVARADO sticks to same story on OSWALD. Official

stared Although this still preliminary, either ALVARADO is celling

the truth essentially or he is the bost liar I have talked ra-in

many years and l have talked to some of the biggest s Heuts in.

Clined to believe ALVARADO is telling the truth in general outline

but believes heis mixed up on dates.

[MEXI - 7156(-IN

29 November 19631

29 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that Captain

35706

in Mexico City and is staying at the Geneve Hotel

[Ibid.]

29 November 1963

Captain

moets with official from Ministry of

Gobernacion: he tells the official that ALVARADO has been 75%

2155-

accurate in his reporting and had had access to and furnished good

information on communism in the past.

said, however,

ALVARADO is inclined to "go off on his own"" at times and impossible

to control.

[MEXI-7168 (IN 70860) , 30 November 1963]

30 November 1963

A3 1030 hours (Mexico City time), official from Ministry

of Gobernacion told the chief of station tha "ALVARADO has signe

a statement saying that story of seeing OSWALD inside the Cuban

22040663-36528 202 35220

Embassy is completely false: He also stated that he had not

---

## Page 41

seen anyono handed money by Cuban consular officers He said coo

he shad notcalled the USe Embassy Cas he had previously claimed)

on 20 September, to warn them. His first call to the Embassy was

on 25 November, the evening he saw, the Ua SeEmbassy security

officer.

MEXI 7168 (IN 70860), 30 Novombor 1963]

30 November 1963

• Mexico Station reports that the Legal Attache is being

informed of the above information (as well as other information

contained in MEXF 7168)

MEXI-1168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963)

30 November 1963(date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates information to instate

Department

and the White House, chat ALVARADO admitted his sto

was a fabrication

(DIR 86063, 30 November 19631

30- November 1963

Headquarters asks the Station obtain all detaits on

ALVARADO's confession.

The Station is askod to "continue to colla

I loads and tips

The question bf whether OSWALD acted solely

on his own has still not been finally resolved.

[DER 86064 30 November 1963}

2 December: 1963

Captain

Saw ALVARADO during afternoon for fi

true. Meeting lasted only seven minutes.

31n brief

company of two Mexican officials, ALVARÄDO reverted

-vious story

He claimed he did see OSwALD

ana cata

che

Embassy to report. (Embassy investigation does not support ta

statement. He went to say that he told the Mexicans he was fabr

Tis:

cating because he was "mentally mistreated"

s. 1.eo, chreatened

with

physical harm, although he was not actually physically mistreated

---

## Page 42

:9

18

said he unable to come to any definite conclusion as to

ALVARADO'S veractor however, he would borable to do so once, he re

turned to Managua and had chance to complete the interrogation.

NB:

ALVARADO was to be deported to Nicaragua on 4 December.

MEXI 7203 (IN 71702) • 2 December 1963)

3 December 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico Station that although we are

confident that ALVARADO

is a fabricator and that his retraction

of his confession is false, it has been decided that he should be

472456

placed on the polygraph. Headquarters asks that Station arrange

to have ALVARADO to be released to us for several days

to remain in Mexica ro assist

Calvin DAVIS of the Office of Security will arrive on

4 December: Polygraph should be administered In safehouse and ali

sessions should be recorded.

Decorded. DAVIS will be in charge of the poly

graph interview, however,

he will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON

who has been selected here as interpreterm

The FBI will notify

ANDERSON of this.

The idea is that ANDERSON would be able to

Tes

tify at any later hearing,

2210

IDIR 86563, 3 December 1963J

3 December 1963

ECHEVARRIA, fcting Minister of Gobernacion, agrees to

permit the COS to "borrow" ALVARADO. Station submits plan for

handling LAVARADO:

a. Clark ANDERSON and Joe GARCIA of Legal Attache

office to pick up ALVARADO from Gobernacion.

D. ALVARADO will be taken to safehouse or hotel

suite.

Cai.

ANDERSON TO GARCIA will aCt as INterpret

-34dE

¿. Plan to bOrROW' ALVARADO garly morning of

5 Decembor and return him that

evening

(MEXI 7228 (IN 72877), 3 December 1963]

---

## Page 43

December 1963

Headquarters approves Station plan and adds chatsche

exact role of che FBI men is up to their local chief

The FBI has specified that Mr. ANDERSON act as their participant

2262K

in the interrogation and any variance should have approvar of Mr

ANDERSON •

(DIR 86621, 4 December 19631

5 December 1963:

More plans by Station for, interrogation of ALVARADO.

(MEXY -7256 (IN 74273)S December 1963)

5. December 1963

Mexican Station forwards Coptes of Mexican interrogation

report on Gilberto ALVARADO: Ugarte.

Station, notes-thatsascopy.of

this report was handed torche Legal Attache.

LEMMA - 2256145 December: 79631

5 December 1963:

Preliminary questioning of ALVARADO took place:

[MEXI 7267 (IN 74696), 6 December 1963]

6 December 1963

ALVARADO" submitted to examination by polygraph.

The

results of this examination indicated that he was fabricating his

story,

Interrogation revealed that ALVARADO was unsure as to the

day of the week he allegedly saw OSWALD: He thinks it was on Tue

day which would have been 17 September When ALVARADO was

shown

a series of photographs during the testing deception palet

6 43860658

became evident When he was, contrinted with this heranswered.

that

he had the utmost confidence in the polygraph and chat

MUS

correct. the interrogation was concluded with

ALVARADG

he must have made uhonest mistakel in relating

his identification of OSWALD.

74, 92

ALVARADO ta be held by the Mexicans

[MEXI - 7289 (IN 75588)

1 December 1963]

---

## Page 44

18

7 December 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters cables a dissemination to the FBi on

the

results of the examination by polygraph of Giberto ALVARADO

"The re interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

Nicaraguan informant who claimed to have

seen. Lee OSWALD receive money to assassinate

Kennedy, has been concluded.

• Our Mexico

City Station advises us that ALVARADO admitted

he must have been mistaken in saying. that he

saw OSWALD in the Guban Embassy.

uncertain of the date on which he might have ass

seen someone like OSWALD and thought it must

have been on a luesday, which would have made

it: 17 September 1963.'*

Although the final*

report of the polygraph interview is not yet

available, the preliminary finding is that

ALVARADO evidenced deception reactions when

talking about OSWALD.

WIt isdexpected that ALVARADO will be deported

ta Nicaragua on 9' December 1963

IDIR: 876675

"A representative of your. Bureau:

in the interrogation of ALVARADO:

participated

December 1963J

Z December 1963

An official of the Ministry of Gobernacion advised the

Chief of Station that ALVARADO will be returned to Managua by:

TACA flight no 113 leaving, Mexico at 0930 hours on 8 December

IMEXT-7290 (IN 75835) 17 December 19031

13 December 1963 (dace of dissemination)

Headquarters forwards a translation

of the Mexican

police interrogation report on Gilberto ALVARADO to the FBI:

Attached is a translation of the Mexican

police interrogation report on Gilberto.

ALVARADO, Nicaraguan. who claimed to have seen

Lee OSWALD accept $6500 in the Cuban Embassy

In Mexico City to assassinate President

Kennedy. & The report states that ALVARADO re-

Tracted these assertions and admitted that he

made them to induce the U.S. to take stronger

action against Cuba.:

The two persons whom ALVARADO met and to

whom he first told his story are undoubtedly

officers of chis Ageney. His claim that they

used FBI credentials is, of course, absolutely

false:: Our officers use no credentials in

Mexico City•

AS you know, ALVARADO retracted the con-

fession of fabrication which he made to the

---

## Page 45

122

Mexican police and had torbe reinterro

gated by representatives of this Agency

and your bureau. This later interroga.

Acion showed that he was probably lying

ICSCT: 3/779,736

i3 December 1963a

Translation was

made of the Mexican police, report forwarded to Headquarters as

annattachment to HMMA-22561, 5 December

1963.)1

31 January 1964

The Agency forwards a memorandum to the Warren Commission

93000

enclosing a presentation of the information-developed by CIA on or

about Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City.

A summary of the informa

cion relatins to the monetary payment to OSWALD and the investiga

tion of this allegation appears on pages lithrough l4 ofather en

(closure.

Memorandum for Mog

o Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January 1964 subject

Information Developed by CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD

in Mexico City: 28-September =3 October 1963.1

21 April 1964

The General Counsel, J. Lee RANKIND

Of the Narten Commis

sion forward's

the fot lowing memorandum tonthe Deputy Director-for

Plans:

On behalf of the Commission I would like

no thank you and your representatives for the

fine cooperation which was extended to represen:

tatives of the commission during the course of

their work in Mexico City from April 8 through

April 13, 1964. I am informed that Mr. SCOTT

the Chief of your Station in Mexico City, was

particularly generous with his time and advice.

and, in tact, contributed greatly to the success

Tof our mission in Mexico.

"During their stay in Mexico City the

Commission representatives discussed with sies

Mr. SCOTT and agents of the Federal Bureau C

of Investigation that portion of the Loo

Harvey OSWALD investigation which concerned

CLAbOrTO ALVARADO Ugarto, Wo sto aware, of y

course, from previous reports that the allega-a

rions made by ALVARADO were thoroughly inves-

Rigated by Central Intelligence Agency and

Federal Bureau of Investigation representatives

in Mexico City in liaison with the responsible

Maurenforcement authorities.

Reference is

made to the discussion of these allegations

your memorandum dated January 31, 1964 at pages

-14

first.

---

## Page 46

supon review of our complete tile on

chis matter, we find that we lack full docu

mentation of the investigation conducted of

chese allegations. It would be helpful if

our records could be supplemented by a report

From your Agency supplying more details re-

garding the investigation undertaken by your

Agency and other concerned Ageneies intosthis

matter and your evaluation as to the truth of

ALVARADO's assertions. In particular, it would

be helpful if a report could be submitted by

the expert who conducted the polygraph exani

nation which emphasizes the specific concrustons

which he made based on the responses by ALVARADO

answering key questions on this matter.

fetter to Mr. Richard Helms, Deputy Director for Plans,

datod 21 April 1964, from Ji Lee RANKIN, General Counsel

1 June 1964

In response to the above letter from the General Counse

HE SCENE

of the Warren Commission, the Agency forwarded by memorandum the

texts of the foltowing disseminations relative to ALVARADO that

were made to other U. S. Government agencies.

relative do Bore ALVA dated 26 November 1903P

b. OUT Teletype No. 85199,

Lee HarVeY OSWALD.

dated 27 November 1963,

OUT Teletype No. 85662,

dated 28 November

1963

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO:

cout Teletype No. 86068,

dated 30 November 1963

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

•Out Teletype No. 85666,

dated 28 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

f.

Memorandum, dated 12 (sic - 13) December 1963,-

Subject: Mexican Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO:

Subjecti

oUT Telet ParVey ONALD dated. 7. December 1963;

[Memorandum for My 3, Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964 from

52h0G

Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject:

Gilberto

ALVARADO Ugarte.]

13 October 1964

The General Counsel forwards the following letter to

the Honorable John A. MCCONE, DCT:

23640

We are enclosing a copy of your SECRET document

---

## Page 47

dated January 31, 2964, concerning informa

tion developed by. CIA on the activity offic

Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 September

3 October 1963

Wo have doloted all references to the Secret

Agent by the marking, "D' Since this docu

ment was cited in our summary report, we axe

requesting your authority to publish it in

this form. If this is not agreeable, may we

have a synopsis of this document which may be

published."

[Letter to John A. McCONE,

, Director, l central Intelligence

Agency, dated 13 October 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General

Counsel. Enclosures:

Commission Documents: 347 and 108481

20- Oetober 1963

The Deputy Diroctor. for plans forwards

-a memara

the General

Counsel of the Warren Connission nuresponse ra

latters terres de is October 1964.14

'The Commission's Report (pages 307-308)

y contains information furnished by this Agency

In memoranda dated 31. January/and 1 June:19644

Since both include information relative town

telligence methods and operations which should

notabe placed in the public domain, I suggest

the use of the revised and consolidated ver

sions dated 4 Jone 1964 which is forwarded

aS

an attachment:

Memorandum for Mr.

U Lee RANKIN, dated 20 October: 1964

From Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans.]

---

