# 104-10071-10094

## Page 1

104-10071-10094

VIA:

DISPATCA

NO. CRUSA 2111

SEEN ARE OR SEA POUC

Secret

CLASSIFICATION

TO

: Chief, hiD

16-12

FROM : Chief of Station,

SUBJECT: GENERAL - TUCAUE

SPECUTE- HSQ/FRQ/68 Part I - Gustav, Phrique SALiADO Torres

DATE: 29 JAnURrE 1959

Attached berewith are copies of HSQ/PRQ/68 Part I for Justavo Enrique

Salgado Torres, who will be the subject of a subsequent dispatch.

Ga bows

28 January 1957

EPD/ENS

Enclosares: Poar copies of (HEA/YRQ/68 Part I

Distribation:

2 - Files

APERTURE CARD

REPRODUGTIONS

HER 51-28 A

Secret

CLASSIFICATION

•I COPY

75/2

O1: 10007

---

## Page 2

0000011

ONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 1 - BIOGRAPHICAL, INFORMATION

Inetruction:

1.

write clearly.

Angver all questione completely.

If question does

not apply, write "not applicable"

3. Attach blank pages If additional space 1e needed.

Full Name

into coplode ou iners curris notira. Lustero furique

Lalgado 7ee1,

i. fresco, nicknamo, loçad changes istate brierzy cloe, rodson ind

pla:o of use.!

9.10. Date of birth thas lie

b. Placo or birth lisane icuildi

6. Fresent citizenship, race 1f appropriate -calarian

?. Natsonality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (1e different

soca 6.l levatoriane as: the thie

P. Prosent residence (Orner, tenant, sub-tenant.) _ vuito, Cillama

I an a copropriator with. my brothers

8. Permanent address (if different from 8.)

The same

10. Present occupation (full title, salary otc.) _ I an a level adriser at tic

Superintendent's office and ear 2,200 sucres

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United States.

(Olye date and name in uhich cortificato granted.) _ lès aulicable

12.

Relatives, friends, correspondente in United States. (Explain ra-

iat1onah1p) I hare ne relatives aud au triende la isd, bur t bare maay

acquaintances

MAY 1

090 88-984

APERTURE

CARD

REPRO

---

## Page 3

0000:

MOON T

13. Father - full name, occupation, present realdence, year and place

of birin, nationality

at birth and subeequent nationalities.

juse Franciscens

Mala, misian in. co dier, situ; he wils

tom it Covarbe in 1a53; he was and he in condorian

14. Mother - same Information as 13.

sethsale todi de salgado, Hossehold, inito; she was born in.

Cagambe in 1990; she wis'and sie in liciadorien

•15. Wifo (or husband) - Pull name, maiden name, date and place of

birth,

date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent

nationalitles, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give date

for all previous marriagee.)

vot a,plicable.

16. Children - fuil names, sex, year and place of birth, nationairty

at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence.

You ar. licable

17.

Brothers

and

sisters - Sane information as 16.

-Luis Humberto, 1905, Cayambe, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

Marla Judith,

1914, Quito, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

Laura,

1918, quito,

Ecuador; Ecuadoran

ilaúl Guillermo, 1920, quito, lcuador; Ecuadoran

Gerardo,

1924, Quito, Forador; Ecuadoran

-Fanny SALGADO Torres, 1929, Quito, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

¿Yolanda SULSADO Aguirre, 1938, quito, Ecuador; Ecuadoran

-2 -

ODUCTIONE

---

## Page 4

400000!

18. Relatives in service of any government, names and poastions held.

19. Let all offlelal identity papere held with dates, numbers, place.

and dust reles) do no on arid loss.

Identity card in. 195f0, issued in uito on the ilth septe ber 1$50

an deliston dégree practicea, memberahip in religious ordere

Catholic; I attend services bely seldom; 1 am not a member of

any religiois onder

21. Present and past political affiliations

in tresent no abbershare frog 19sd to 1os7, wion I was a stadent, te

interid tie communist party :

22. Travel sutello country of present rosidence - country, datoo,

purpose, people and fire viäited

Pro 1925 to 1931: Colombia, Venezuela, trace, armany, Denmark,

dory, sweden, Finland, als:la, spain,

Ataly, as A tourist

In 1936:

France,

Helgim, Neth.raando, todard, Portugal,

1p9u9.dd, Cohol, Jarmica, etc., as il

tourlit.

23. Education - school, location, course, dorreo, doles

Henriery school, secondary sehool an universies an ulto

low; l took my diree of lagger An decriber 1141

24. Languaros and dialecto (Indicato proficiency as good, pair, poor.)

Language blish speak minel Road aled

_ Undererand seed

Language Exerch Spenk iled Road vod

Understand-dood

Language ieman Spook scal Road alad

Underoiand _inad

in the sane level: Iralian; dussian; saelsfactory: Greek, fortuguese;

etc.

APEANU

it 8

AGO

1: - 3-

---

## Page 5

4-00000

25. MIlItary service - datea. country, unit, rest, duty, there

services performed, decorations, when dlacharged, why. Glve

detalla 1f over prisoner of. war

vot di licable

26. Prodent and past membership in organtzation (profeseional, pocial

political, otc.)

I aun

a mumber of tie lamers' suild of quito; of mejla" school

graduates. I din'e belong to any political organizati.n

: 24. Sported 8k111o, abilit100, hobbles (radlo, photography, ate.)

l'am a pianist

28. Financial statue - earningo, bank deposite, securities, proporty

Satistactory lina.cial, osition; l am a co, roprietor of two

houtes in suito

29. Employment history - type of work, salary, dates, employers, ad-

dresson, roasona for loaving. Inciude employment by any government.

During 14 years I was a i rofessor at tie Central University in Cuito;

I left it in 1155 (Septenbor) because I was not-reappointed by the

council. The University is sucialist led and my anti-socialist

positin was well know through the press.

TURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 6

O000A!:

i9: (Contifued)

a translator de to macoal staif and a

protes.or at to tilitary radeny, the dealeg ins crosed following the

For a los amen in dodo, laus on fricial of eu: secretarias of the

congress no al sceritary do to dice president of the lepublic.

I quirted

In

19l118,

to i budgit est.

1941, lari a ligel niviser eo due Ministry of cublic iorks did I left

on

Dece der Slit

swing to a bldget c.e.

In 1950, 1 WAY

Hostitant to tire delores inerai of the so,ublic. I left my

just on

Decriber ilit abilo to is l'alone cit.

Fron 1931 to 1951, l was in l adviser to the Ministry of foreign Airiirs.

I was dismissed becausé l belongid do thi stati di "El Coercion Mi at

thet cime nal coercia" joined eno politicalorpositi.n.

In the a men of septenter lyso, I tas appointed legal advisor

to the

superintent's oflice, a post which I am keeping so far.

30. "Baa subject dond any writingi Give detalia Including titloo of

booke, articlog, publiahere, dated.

I published three books on legal subjects:

"Vida del verecho en el

Antiguo Reino de quito"; "Il Cuso Néstor Borja Descé el l'unto de Vigra

del Berecho Internacional"; and Jurisprudencia de ja Cancillerfa Ecuatorlana".

Since 1i4u, I lave written numerous articles on legal and internati.nal

toyies in "Cl Comercio".

31. Lint persone liting at same address, close saporiatos, (Individuale or

groupe,) correspondente at home and abroad.

My parents, brothers and 3 nephews live with me in Calama, 244.

I correspond occasionally with

some friends in the country und abroad;

•Dr. Bolivar uLES, Ecuadorian Embassy, La faz, Bolivia

Nestor Borja, Hamburo, Germany

Professor, Louistkutner, Chicado, U.S.A., Kutner Co dese of Internatlunal kas,

Tokylet than character

and GeorgesArgyropoulos, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

Carlos MLYTILLA Orteja, "El Comercio", Quito

Bolivar VALLADIES,

EcuaJorian Embassy, La Paz, Bolivia

Alfred KARDER, Compañia Hamilton, quito

Carlos TOBIR Zaldumbide, Ministry of Forei,' Affairs, quito

Or. José intonio HALUERO, Sarofa Moreno 1224,

- 5 .

LARG

---

## Page 7

14-

00

33°

Court

record - court, lato, irresto, shargea, puntormento,

sentences, arquittale, lernitfication, otc.

dut ai, licabie

34. Description !Use Azerican atindarda oi menaurement, if pobaiblo.)

te jears

Apparent age _Lrit.b': less

Reight-

Eyes.

Face - shape -

Complexion_ ralist dick

Sex

Mile

• General appearance

Prominent features

Other Identifying features

Posture

Welght.-

Ha1r - black

Scare - nune

Build

-stander

35. Other mlacellaneous biograptical data and commente. :

r.

*"..

---

