# 104-10273-10326

## Page 1

110410273-10326]

1

3

4

5

YEAR

" NUMBER

NEW DOCUMENT RECORD

ĐP

oa@oz às da

Ф351

DOCUMENT

DESCRIPTION (Cirele il approprote) 130 CHARACTERS)

DOC. NO.

18027

Instruetions for Divisions and Stoffs:

1. Fill in and Sign on line !!.

2. Use bock of form for any additional comments.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

FOAM

DISPATEM

LETTER

MEMO

BETEN PH

AIRGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERSI

IN 944357

8

Jun

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

DIR

CLASS

#HERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERE)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

DD0 %

DO FILE NUMBER 120 CHARACTERSI

S

SUBJECT (8O CHARACTERS)

Written /verbal report ne Pres. Laugerud.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

2P AUG 1987

Determinations:

• A. Release in full text

B. Release

in sanitized form

Deny in toto

Defer

decision to (Specify in line 8)

Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFEI DECISION TO 110 CHARACTERS| COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

* EW

CLASS

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

M. Keck

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FELG REVIEMNE OFFICER

E.O. 12356

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

(вз

FOIA

8A B5 B6 B7C

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government.

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

on vit a Poreign Governon

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonyn

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

15.

of an FBI agent

FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 1l)

REMARKS IIF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE! (40 CHARACTERS)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(15) (3)

PA

(k) (])

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (0) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

SIGNATURE'OFFICE

REMARKS 1160 CHAFLÖTER:

Hall, Davis et al; 300t 00t0 Jul Jul59

BoX # 51, -

2 GERALD PATRICK HEMMING.

This Formes Unclossitied Unles: The Clossilication is Cheeied

end The Iniormatior belon i: completed.

CL BY:

DECL ORDE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

perrord?

ise wormwi…..

or comes 23- Vmm

SECREI.

Fit F

Zuraristor

O-FICE 15 PПOHIВ.TEС

STATE P

21

B.°53.8

ian. ..-.

981÷95

811761

PAGE B1

TOR: 082242₴ JUN 76

SECH ET CHEZZOE JUN 7O STAFF

CITE

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

1: 844557

REFS: A.

B.

(1N 937052)

SNOT SENT

(IN 890367)

1

(1)

PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

¡VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL. ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF & CASE AND RESULTS, ACCORDING REPORT AND IN : NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT OMINO WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE"

EIMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE AUGUST 75.

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD, PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

• REPORT AND MI CLAIN THAT TWO AMERICANS, BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRAGESY, HERE ALSO

INVOLVED HITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISYED HIM IN

ACQUIRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 9O GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT. REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 65) REQUESTS

BY LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

in stal pu as el

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCT TE ON -

25 AUG 1987

CL FFVIEW BY -

0102225

RED ON DOWNG TO Lit

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NOT RELEASE

18027

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TIE SIC DISSI AY

SONUNIT NOTTIU

ANCE COPY EEIEESLOTTEO

TION UNIT

RF. FILE.

- IOTAL CARIS

SECRET

BY

REPFODUCTION

ISSUING OFFICE

15

PACHIDITE:

STAFF

VR •

T

981395

E14767

PAGE 82

TOR: 8822427 JUN 76

IN

944357

A• IS ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

•AS PURCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

F. IS. HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

Do REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

• E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REGUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA. ("

SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA ILLESAILY

BUT ARRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY, BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY.

?.

Diair ariation plan:.

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NUT RELEASE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

•IOSAL SOPIES

SECRET

RUN

ТЕРПОБСТІЗУ ОР ОТНЕН ІНАЇ

ISSUI!C

CHACE IS PROHION EC

STAFF

_CO-Y ISY DELOITEU.

AF. FILE

VR

15:

931395

PAGE @3

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

Danismen ia Stalen ariel?

5.

station quey to hogle.

FULL JEXT COPY - DU NUT RELEASE

---

## Page 5

13-00000

_FER

•MUNIT NOTI'IED

185.

-...

SECRET

------

HENrODUCTION

ISSUING

CFFICE IS

PROMIdit

STAFF

RF . FILE

VR

1 2

T 981595

EIA767

PAGE 54-04

TOR: 0822427 JUN 76

IN 944357

5.

FILE:

are wan

SECRET

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

