# 104-10193-10008

## Page 1

104-10193-10008

SECRET

file

Pierrary 190

MINORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBJECT

8 l'eeting with Dr. Nasal "renolo" ilY

1.

Instructed to assure RAY:

A, That "we" pers nally hold him in tim rzerd an?

that while "wa" are not backing sy individual or

group in the political sense, we do rete syspati?

with his progran and his aims.

That "we" are prepared to render bie vetever material

assistance he neads and can fessity use.

That isle

the mechanism of the Frente would bare to be uot for

the delivery of such materials, since no her marcarism

for this purpose progently exists.

*aig 11d not near

need. be beholden to use Frente.

c.

That we understood ho 1s plannis, to retara to cica.

We feel that this would be a wise more, and

congenuently urge him to do so.

== this connectioo

wo are preparod to offer him a commiestor aal chier

similar assistance so that he cos maintain cants.

with his people.

2.

I hau plannod to see Ray on his return for Faerto Rico ==

the afternocn of 3 January 1961, but the immineney of a bradi of

diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba camelled

me to return to Havana on the morning of 3 azuery 195l.

Consequently, my nosting with RAY was post 70a1 uncll lari erening

when an appointment was made through WISSeR to neat want hir

at the lattor's apartment.

Cur nesting lasted approximataly three hours - roughly ra 7 to 10 p.m.

We covered a wide range

subjects,

the him ights of sic I

shall try to cover in succeeding paragrats.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

HIS TRIP. TO SAN JUAN.

He cade only rassing references to his tris

to tuerto Rico, lle nentioned that he had a vory fine talk wish

Gov. UNow Marin for thou ho extrossod preat admiration. Several

tines during the oveningo sessien he Indicated that he would 1lbe

to see the Cuture Cube, follow She path of Puerto Rico and host

Germany In Ita econonto develorent.

He also said that he had

conferred with ox-president of Costa Rice, Dr. Jose FiGURAS, bec

ho. found very preoccupied uith restect to future develoments in

Latin Arertca; the Influenco wnich CAS.RO atill exerte on the

ninds of groat numbers of peonle. RAY comented that while alness all

of the povernment now see CiSTRe for viat he 1s. a cynteal dictasc.

there are many. rany people no still view him as a popular leader

no is trying to help his people. Huch more in the propapanda 1ise

1a necessary he said to prosont CAsTri to the people in a truer litt.

In thie connection he said that the IRP hores within the next three

wooks or so to acquire broateasting facilities in Costa Rica,

Venezuela, ant perhaps acquiro a ship from which propaganda could

be diaseminated.

ATTITUDS TO ARD THE FRENTE.

RAY fools that the Frento has little

to offer. the people of Cuba for she future.

For oxample, he said,

there is great discortent in the Cuban Rebel Army which could he

exploited 1f these

dissident elepents could have sone assurance tiss

chay were laying

down their lives for's vorthwhile causs.

RAY

does not feel that the action and conposition of the FAD Innies

such confidence.

He did not mention any nates specifically among

the FRD: which would represant a "return to the past" but he lid

say that one of the Executive Nambers. (head of a departent, I

believe is how he put it) had been a big

time contractor during

BATISTA's regime and that when Riy took

over the Ministry of Puble

orks under President URRUTIA, he learned

that this sain contracte

had previously presented a blil and collacted 300,000 pagos for 2

publie works project which was never undertaken.

Instond of harleg the

man Jailed, RAY said that he as Minister of Publie Horks merely

Insisted that the job be done. He cormentod that he (RAY) would

now probably "have to pay for this."

I presung ha neant that this

particular person will eventually seek some type of parsonal revear.

RiY also sa'd that "one of the fire" members of the FRD confided to

him that he 1a not happy but there la little he can do about it bessase

"he is there." RiY repeatod gone of the visual critleima of the ra

"high living." petty polities:

•"everyboy receiving a salary," an' *bo

"obrious fáot" that the lS, Governent is piching up the tab. T-is

he sald was fine vich the !RP tacause it was causing disillusione?

Cubans within and vithout Caba to turn to the "RP as the only hore.

He was zulte frank in strtine that while he 19 willing to "cochersia?

with the Frente, he did not van! the tRP to become identified in

Cuban mind with the Fronte and thus itsolf bee ne discredited tre

"assoclation."

---

## Page 3

PROB:

DRORS

unen 16la RaY that ve wore peonard to

crovide hi.

natertal support ant chat while

ruch of this matertal

supportzwould:

have to be doltrend by the fronto rechanion this ould

necessartif cake: him beholdon or

the

ace him under oblication co

Trento. he sted:

and said that thio 1s what I say, but this 1s not

way it vorks.

1€

past.

and not:

the

nking to vas reforting to some incident to y

Inned late

rresont. I said that I was sure

WO

d

find that this

1s how

It worke. Ho then told ne that

h

be

en

nogotiating

for

an

alr

drop to a group-in the Escanbi

that

Mr. B. hail crue

down

Pretty

much rosalved.

and

1 He thought thelr differincea h

ind

and Mr

B. hat told Mr.

JuVadOs that

had been a meeting of minds. t

there

cotora, and with everything all set

for the drop. ke

at the eleventh hour (he said "three days ago")

told that the arms rust

"no arms:"

He said

bear

the sticker of the Frente, otheruise

that thig was

absolutely unaccoptable to him.

He sald he.

ild not Insist or particulurly ask that the arms be

identifled with arp" stickers, so therefore he could not see any

Justificition for insisting that the arms bear the fRo-label.

He

cald that his troup has done all the operational planine for the drop,

couriers have gone back and forth lotween Havana and the Escambrays,

maps have bean drawn up, Da's have been arranged, arid now ho 1s

cold that the equiront wnich he hail boon told was being suppled

to his sroup must bear the label of the rival "PRD." It 19 obvlous

that while we sar that ve look unon the Frente as a non-political

grouping of various orposition groups, RAY looks uron the Frente as

the political organisation of Tony VRGNA and'I

personally do not

feel sangulna that any anount of explanation will change his

thinking in this rexam.

Here and elsewhere during our conversation,

I noted a cortain grount of Intrenstgence and lack of tolerance on

the part of RaY which does not bale sell for the future, uloss he

car. be made to realise that his troup and following aro not the sole

repository of virtue, honesty, compotence and rood intentione.

RAY

Is an Idealist,

He dreans. oi a lenocratic Cuba, free of corruption,

ruled by en who arg selflessly dedicited to the promotion of the

ganeral velfaro.:

When I said to RAY that Tony YARCNA and other

jenders of the ID would say that they too stand for these things, he

again sulled and sald:. "The curious thing is thit thoy do not come-

out and say une ulvocally that they stand for these things.

Instead they say we are Cutans -ve are not Inplishren. we are not

Americans, io aro not Germans - we are Cubans." What they rean to say,

he wenb.on. ls that salfishness.: sme corruption. et cetera, 19 psre

of the Cuban wake up and that this boing the case lt is unrealistie

and impractical to think that Cusang can aspire to a democracy

based on

Integrity and fiscal honesty such as we have in the United

States, op England, or other more alvinced denoc-roles of Hestern

Europe.

He feols thai the peocle of Cuba yearn for such a denocracy

and they do not seo the chance of futfillment in the composition of

the Frente.

Therotors he wishes to ezdaly in the MRP those men wrose

---

## Page 4

rerucationg a clean - he lert roforring to Follay Pasos.

89 An

exarrie - nd thus bold

out to the Cubaas In Cuba a hos of buttor

days to come - and to previlo them a cause for wich to fight.

sithout a will to fight on

the part of the poorlo of Cuba, he snid,

CASTRO wi?! navor be overctrown.

Tho will to fight ines not exist

on tho scale that is needod to achieve guccoss.

Tro Fronto 13

cooplatoly

incapabla of rolling the Inspiration from wich such

= w1ll can

stem,

Consequentely.

1t 1s ur to the MRP to ingrire the

confidonce of the people by brining torthor those persons and elerents

whom the people trust and who are not identifled with the corrupt

rast. The people of Cuba, ho said, cannot stand another 11 sapiol: tment.

Ther hopes must not be raised again, only to suffor another betrayal.

PROVISIONAL GUVERNNENT. I broucht un tho subjoct of a provisional

governant, a rovernment in exile, but refaced my remarks by saying

that I was only oxpressing my personal vlows.

"Don't you

feel that the problem of whose sticker goos on the air drops. and who

sets crodit. for this or that, would ba reso!red if an Assembly of

Opposition Groups

wero to meet and to democratically elect a proviaional

govarnment, composed

of honost, competent men of unimpeachable record.

waild represent all the divorss opposition groups and which would

raise tho. hopes and provide the illi to righo to the Cubans li Cuba

who are uncortain and confused with respoct to the futuro?"

Ho said he was opposed to a coalition covermont nade un of representatives

of various political

partlos ay a proviatonal government bacause Fo

was sure such a government would not bo ablo to provido the united,

honesy, non-partisan type of leadership which will bo required following

the fall of CASIRU.

He bolud preter a government of "integration"

rather then a government

of "coslition."

By that he said he meant

that the best qualifled men would be asied to serve their country in

an apolitical capacity.

That thege men would be

experience.

conpetence, raputation, etc., and little or no concern

should be given as to their political artillations. A governmont

composed of such men would sulckly win the raspect of the Cuboa population;

thest men could get on with the job of racinstrueting the country.

completely subordinatine partisan political congidorations, since

such man would not be politically ambitious.

l'oreover, a governant

composed of such outstunding ion would win the confidence of foreign

countries which would be nore dis:osed to srant loang. which will be an

urgant necessity from the very start.. The vardous political partlas

So far as the rovernment itsalf

concorned, it would be arolitical.

and their loaders would in free to precare for the coming electlong -

whether they be in 6, 12 or 18 mont'is.

at which tine the Cuban people

in free elections could lecide which po'ition! party it wanted to

I. agked RAY who would salect these men.

And at shas Juncture of tha

struggle against CASTRO would a provisional covernment appear.

a little fuzzy - probably Intentionally - on chis point.

le clearly

Indicated that some work had alrendy been acconplished on the easter

S007

---

## Page 5

of arirose ine liValy condidates. He salt more would be long lo

cho le-dero of the F and ochor Cüber eleronts would be consulted.

he indicatod chat chio was che diana

that peneralacroscont would?

bo sought

and ichat all prospa vould bo free to sugroot candidatos.

Hoover te Colt It was juito fosstolo. for axmple,

that the FRD

could suprost candidatod o

wculd not

cost tra sorted atenderda

thee would bo sot and would have to ba rolnctel:

He vas not clour

no to ho vould oxercise tile power of

vito

- but & suther that to folt

that the tip which sepresents or will

retrosent (in hio nind) the

party which comands the frontess rosnect wiühln the eountry, vould

exerctse thts prerogative.

As I say.

he mao a little ruszy on thia

polnt - ho may nos hord visted to tip his hand. or ho may havo folt that

1e vao a littlo promaturo for him to discusa this mattor at greater

length.

CONSTITUTION OF 1940.

I said to RAY. "I undorgand you do not want

to retain

tho Constitution of 1940.*

He stied at thio." He sald

chis question has been rut to him bofore.

Ofton bolliperently.

lovever,

to sald, ench tire that ta has oxplainad why ho feels that

the Constitution must bo re-ritten te has ended

un convincing the

Torson in gunstion that cortain featuras of tha Constitution of 1940

aro eithor unvorkable, und. ocratle or obsceto.

He sald few of the

people who pat worked up over the Constitution heve ver read the

Constitution and therotoro do not los what they are talling ibout.

He said the Constitution 1s not lIke the Arnrican Constitution

which sots out 1t3 precopts in general terns and covers basic

questions of government.

Tre Cuban constitution la a long. rambling

docurent that ofton poes into minute details of rules and reculations

hIch have no place: in the baste law of tre lant.

first, he said. he

Wanted

to make 1e absolutaly clear that he "loves" those proviaions

of the Constitution which guarantee indivilual libertles, privata

proportj..etc.

However

there are other parts o? the Constitution

wich are taracticabio.

With respect, to Arrarian Refore, he pointed

out, the Constitution requires immodiate paycent in cash. He said

In no country of the world ras an agrarian cropran bean carrled out

with irrediate cash payments.

"Not only does the rovernment not have the

coney to carry out such a proper, but if te ild it would result in

inflation and a serious dislocation of the eccnomy.. The electoral

laus, he sald, ara very complex. and those relatlig to apportiormont

et the Congress can iniy result in corruption. I rotarked:

"Yoy

moan they

are vritton in such a vay that they Invite corruption?

no 3a1d:

More

than that, they fores corruption." Ho said under the

present set-up

one has to elthor be a alilionairo or bo able to borrow

200.000 pesos (and thus accort com linenta) in order to be elscted to

congress

He gald'ho would like to see this fart of the Constitution

wilcer along the American lines, Also, he said the laus relating to

the raising of revenue are archalc. He said chat in order to nejuira

money for e given program. a spocific tax must be applied designed to

---

## Page 6

10.

to provido that.

He said that what So nooded are four laxe,

but moro veneral taxos witch will provide the rovenue needed vithout

tho necomtty

a rodro-rodro of tax 61110.

• Me sald chat felipe

PazOR. Rufo

that chlo part

resint.

the

and other excer enced finance sen-apree

Conscitution rust bo rovised. I said!:: "Why not

anend the Constitution rachor than rounito little replled that chlo

but that 1t

vou a be more Practicable to vite af

workable Const

Iration providing all the runrantees of a denoerney

but omiting a lot of the lifelevant and unvorkable features of the

current one,

HIS PERSONAL PLANS.

"I aaid I understood that he was planine to ratur

to Cuba/and aared 1f this vas correct.

He said he and thor's of his?.

group plan to return at the appropriate time but firat he vanted to b

sure that he hat nailed down certain political and support mattera hero.

He sald he was hopeful that the "politloal" considerations - which he

Indieated (without clerification) - vere poing quite satisfactorily -

would be satisfactorily concluded in

"two wooks or go." WISSINGER

agked g

"Do you nean aftor 20 January?": RiY amlled but made no reply.

He sald that te had hoped that he had settlod the matter of the logistical

support when he talked to Mr. Blast, but it now appears that le 18

not settled and that they may have to return to Cuba without thia

support.

He said he was leaving for New York on 9 January and would

remain there until Saturday, 15 january.

lie sald he could be reached

through Raul CHiPS. I told him that I thought he should return, aa

aoon an he could, and that ve vere crepared to assiat him In every way

possible, Including providing him with a concunicator. He said we had

alrealy

trained a comunicator for his group who had been Infiltrated

into cuba and ne wonderud viore that man as

at the resent time

whother in lilavana or the hills.

Melthor I. nor WIESINGER could enlighten

him on this point, except to say that he

was nafoly in Cuba.

During the entire intorvlow, with no exception, RAY jas his usual

quiet, soft-spoken self.

However, ha did show enotion when he asted me

if I thought anacho-vas irjing to sabotage hia efforts to surply the

resistance groups in Cuba.

For example, he first brought up. and 1t

vas jost obvious that it is a matter of groat concorn to him..

the

mattor of the plans, maps, etc., for the MR! action against che Isle of

Pines, Ho said a carefully coondinated plan hat beenlald on.

That

BARUIN discussed It with "lrey."

That BIRJITN asked "JLry" 1f the

map and

other parers could be ielivered in Cuba within 45 tours.

"Jinny" assured BARQJIN that they could and BIRTl handed them over.

RAY said that BARUIN errei in doine.

thig as thay had there own

facilities for transmitting

the

papers.

The papers nerer: arrived at

their destination. nor have they evar been heard fros again.

As a

consequence, a plan of great leportance had to bo abandoned.

and an

Irreplacaablo opfortunity lost.

He wag

extrenaly azitated uten he

talked of this natter and although MIESINCER

and I attar.ntodl

to

assure hin

that he wag not being saboteged and that there vera no

"comunisty" trying to trustrate his accivities, he nonetheless is

---

## Page 7

11.

12.

workod up on the issue and will not be cintont until ho haga

sottafactory

explanation.

Non, ho

says, he la confr-neod with the

delay in the air drop to the peoplo in the Saca-bruys.

"Do you think

schoone wants thess ren wipod out for sone reason of other and

that thia to uny these acceptablo contitions are places et the last

He was assured nothing could be farther fron the truth, but

atill thlo le a concrete example of his bellef that he tas not received

the support that he hun been lead to believe he will receive.

NRP INTELLIG INCS ORGANIZATION.

group being organized under WiESTNGER's puldance.

pointed out that

little propress had been made due to the fact that Ba? iN - RAY'a

desirnee for tho Job had so many othor responsibilities that he

could not rive this mattar his undivided attention.

pht laughed

and said that BARVIN has begn given no other rasrona1o1l1ti0s..but

that he has sought out other responsibilities on his am shich are

timo taking.

He promised to think about this and was agreeaole to

assigning " "shirt sleeve" typa of operator to work with iNSINGER

on tho nuts and bolts.

The name of liicolas MCIDiZA was sugrestod

by.

the undersigriod (in prior consultation with wInstigaRy as a person.

of considerable intelligence and drive and endosed with a willingness

to carry out ordors.

Nicolas, win is a brother of one of RAY's

closest men. Ignacio lEiDOZA, was acceptible to RAY end he asked

WISSINGER 1f he could ascertain Nicolas', present shereabouts so

that he could be propositioned on the subject.

The neeting broke up after ton o' cluck.: It yes comilal throughout.

and I feel cloared the air a little altough it sottled so matters of

consequerice.

I told RAY I was going to Hashington on Yonday and,

after consultations, might wish to sse h'n agela.

He said be would

wolcome another get-together and that I could reach his through

CHIBAS during the current week.

703

---

