# 104-10177-10035

## Page 1

104-10177-10035

L23

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

JATE

BAS BP

K feline

ground ot

Reproduos

ANG 7 23142 59

ACTION WAS CO

PRIORITY

PP/PROP PP/CADy 100 4

IN 8135037.

29143

CITE.

:: DIR

NFO

; HAVA

244

RE, OOOATH ATTACHE MOXI PRIORITY 7 AUCIGT TO COATH HOS

1 COCATH ATTAGHE INFORMO 6 AUGUST BELT CIDA VANS VARELI CANOSA, CUBA

NAVAL ATTACHE, MO CAPT MANUEL VILLARA MISTINEZ, CUBAN AIR ATTACHE, TISIR

•DECISION GREAK: WITH ELDEL CASTRO BUT VILLING SON IN IN PLACE TO REPORT VITAL INFO

TO COYOKE, NO COYOKE COCHITNENT ASKED BY, SUBUS. DOCATH ATTACHE MILL MANOLE

AGENTS ANd

TWILL PROVIDE GUIDANGE AND BE KEPT FULLY INFORMED.

2. INFO REPORTED FIRST MEETING INCLUDES:

A PILLAR LIVES WITH NO SILITAN ATTACHES, (TINCTOR GARCIA VION

ANO LI) GIL LINO SUAREZ HERNANDEZ, BOTH OF NOM ARE COVIDE SUAREZ TOLO

ILLATANA HE FOMERLY WITH RAUL CASTAN IN COLE YOUTHLMOVZNENI

VILLAFANA: SAM 25,000 NEW SOVIET RIFLES FUR CUDAR ART. OLD RIFLES BENG SINON TO

PEASANTS.

- BOTH ATTACHES AGREE CASTRO AMN CONTAINS 5,000 ANTI CASTRO MEN

SCARE ARE CUTIERCE VENOTO AND WILAL MOGA PTA LNDER COY BARQUIN NO IS IN

CARIS AND YS HEY ANIL CASTRO LEADER.

SOVIETS PREPARING SIZEABLE DOLLAR AND TO YELP CUBR THRUCH CURRENT

ECONOMIC CRISIS.

L. GRASSOR) SALVADOR ASSIP AS MISCIVINES I CUDAN SITUTICN BUT MIS

LITIC ATIENT SINCE MS IS CONS DENS, TOT

HEY 1360 TIP / DUCTION Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUANG OFE IS PROHIBITED - C25

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

15010

$TO

THOM

ACTIONA

IN

Sias

•PAGE 2

PaRIs IN 11350

'3*

VAREL FAMILY WITH HIM BUT VILLAFANA DIVORCED FROM FANiLY NOW IN

FOR HAVA: THIS INTO NOT SENT BY ODOATH ATTACIE TO HAVA AID IS NOT

TO BE RELEASED TO ANY COYORE AGENGY HAVA•

END OF MESSAGE

"US" 1389 PEPRODUCTION BY OTHLA TANTNTISSUNG OFFICE IS PROMISED. CopyiNa

---

