# 104-10121-10341

## Page 1

104-0121-10341

SECRET

EYES ONLY

4 OCT 1973

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu

1.

Robert A. Maheu was born on 30 October 1917 in

Waterville, Maine.

He graduated from Holy Cross College,

Worcester, Massachusetts in 1940. He is married and ha:

four children.

2.

he was employed as a Special Agent with the

Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1940 to 1947. Upon

resigning from the Bureau a venture into private enter

prise culminated in bankruptcy in 1952.

Subsequent to

his bankruptcy, he was employed as Special Assistant to

the Administrator, Small Business Administration with the

specific duty of Director of Security.

vector us

In February 1954,

he was forced to resign for political reasons from this

position.

He then established his own investigative

organization known as Robert A. Maheu Associates, and

rented desk space in a suite occupied by Carmine S. Bellino,

a former Bureau Agent, Certified Public Accountant, and

currently employed on

Capitol Hill with one of the Congres-

sional Committees.

3. Mr. Maheu's organization successfully handled a

number of prestige accounts, including Niarchos, Schenley

Distillers, New York Central Railroad, United Steel Workers

Union, and ultimately Howard Hughes.

Although he has main-

tained offices in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, most

recently he resided in Las Vegas, Nevada.

4.

. He was initially recruited by the Office of Secu-

elements of the predecessor of the Deputy Director for

Operations.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY: 061142

EYES CHLY

SECRET

---

## Page 2

1498000

SFCREI

EYES ONLY

Some of those assignments included the

following:

A.

The procurement of feminine companionship

during an official State visit

to Ins country during the period l6 March

195g through d8 April 1959)

(See attached

Tab 1--taken from "Family Jewels" memoran-

dum dated 16 May 1973)

в.

Johnny Roselli

The use of a member of the Mafia in an

attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro,

initiated in August 1960.

(See attached

Tab ?--taken from "Family Jewels" memoran-

dun dated 16 May 1973)

C. Cover

Various officers of the Clandestine Service

met with Mr. Maheu over the years frow 1954

to 1970 to determine the feasibility of using

his fira for non-official cover purposes.

Actual cover uses were provided for one officer

in MT. Maheu's Washington Office from September

1964 to June 1966, and another officer used the

cover of Maheu Associates representatives in

from 1 August 1968 through

31 December 1970. (See attached Tab 3--Director

of Security Memorandum to the Director of Central

Intelligence, dated 20 Januaty 1971)

tormination contact bes cover are get :

made with Mr. Maheu since the

3 Atts

EYES ONLY

SECRET

2

---

