# 104-10218-10027

## Page 1

104-10218-10027

SEC

NO FORT

RISSEM

Brocter

0111c0 08 Security.

United Etates lataration Agenc)

FECH

a Dopaty Mrectos for Plans

SUBJECT: JUgO TULIO kelonder

798

Parge

lo Roference 18 mido to

23 Leeraber 1su, and

I0 ovejaber

ase, walch prosidos tulontion on ruisect.

Ia an etiom to try lo clarify the cotailo of

there followe

inicreation te

TiCa AnChIOS "LI lateration Aviloble In Che tilan

Mo Sicillonal Infrination on PaLId

An LAD GLion oL tulo Gidice vaico hog 10t

aiready boon nada avallable tO you in the netoranda

citod in parayragh oua.

Hugo TULIO tolonone (spromounly describos

as a Cuba) 579 8225

courth spother on 16 turch 1658

at a rally of Cuban, Nicaraguon, oro unalüicen

politich onden Loid at tho oros kerment e

Ald te cuba,

N166/0025,

"enolatod" countrius.

b.

AO Janusry 11ob at Heniciclo & Juro.

Frontos ol Cantenla no a dictatro ond an & lachoy

of tho United stater.

Encolator,

11 Janunry 1955, reported tie

no sortins la ">" abore sad had a photograpa of

HAgO TULIO bolondes un ono of tho procipal 1g18e

it anid he advocated that herico broat

Aplomtse relations vich Nicolis.

NO

ICON DISSEM

201-35133

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SE

NO 5904

SM DISSEM

La PrESSa, $ June 1959, cited Fugo TULIO

slender de one of the spentors at a rally at the

"suitorio do mumnlindes" to ayoto againit dic

tatara da

A report dated. 1Y July 1058 reportod is

Fiold Conront 3 that nugo TU JO lolondez attonded

ceremonies in comection wita the inauguration of

Luring theue cere.

monies • and alth batted states Anissador nobert

C. EllI ON 140 PlACION N FLO TULIU LOLARCEL EUG

denly dot us on the piatiorn and begin to suse a

swoech attacking the United states and ito pollcy

toard Latin AnarIcE.

LugO TULIC deleRdex tOS

ANTONIO CASTIO ROSA, LITOCKON O1 ELO UNAN SUBZET

Be 001.

I. The

sand rejort above said that & student

rally vE hoLd in the auditOriUn Of the Uit to

BUMPORE LCVOLLTIONILY ACTÍVICICS IA LENIES &N0

ARCTICA®

AUSO TULIU SOLOMON TEN ON O1 820

*caflote by

ELO AX FUC

distributod at this rally.

nora of 30 July 1859,

liable source, sojarted os the

frOs A fAIrlY I+

Mationid Oretory

Content ind

The raDart

stered,

tho very and and the cherents of the radical left.

tho may be considered un tuturo agitators.

T'he

mont dangerous of tile (agitator) typo sero Mical

LOVEL BarroR, tho Morelos represontative, and inco

TubIO Solender, dio cosgite balle an Gut hide

donagogno, knove vell hou to attract the mszes."

& roport inted 14 August 1959 on = "9181€

of cubans at national University of rexico"

forted that Mago TULlO Helendes vas one of 1iye

orinners of i noting bold to the Jaciato

Pallarea auditoriua of too lab school (at UMal)

to honor the tuban conunist visitors.

A report dated i august 1a0e reported

poting beld on 25 July 1950 at Ateno Espano

(Coralet meting ball) to poy tribute to.F1cel

SH

NO

---

## Page 3

INABI DISSEM

CAUTIO FUE.

ingo TULIO Molender as the Lirat

eDenter.

&e pained the Cuma Fevolution is

attached. the for rants 08 bicarama, Faraguay.

and the boninican Resublle, an biased toe

"pserdo blondes" of the Norts (Lantod ¿tateo)

for &11

dietatorshing.

He said the great 1a0

boon bald to

distort the truth about the castro

revolutton

ko saic ho knce his soróa woule be

roposted to the District Attorney, since ti

Mexican carenaens pirate soni Did agents to

1tates.

On 14 Decenber 1950 USIA ashod for clear

LION thE SOCUTALY OIIICO LOT HUGO TULIO

Melender (bora co 31 MY 1036 10 L0RIC0, LED

uho tes being considerod loss studeat travol

orant tater

(300 AXERCOON NEEL tO LIE LOCHIItY DISIAN 1I

& SUnD 1080, CETON INEO TILIO

Selenha

08 t29 Losser

0% €20

*rente

UniverEIario Intlas nacricso end une of the

thano tiatore of & lettur lo leacen toroler

for the medes chien those sturonts say vas dory

by Trajilla sOntO) o1 JoCe ALADINA.

Exolatoe, 20 duns 1800, roported

Lago TULd Welendez (of the trento Univeraleario

Latino auricano) vas snoug a group of "studento,

workers, und Consists" sho volcored Oralio

DORTICES,

Prostdont of luba, to tho sliport in

hordeo city.

roported that Furo TuLIO bolences van anong a

coup of lorices stulonte tavited to vial: cute.

Tho seritstion cane iron the chen Embassy da

MONItO CIEN. FRICh DrONION tO pay O1I expeRTOE.

A report dated 20 July 1060, SAgArE 3,

uGally rollable sorco, rogorted that on

7 July 1860 Ingo TULIO Solendos Invited 11100

MASTIC, socord secrottry.of the Yugoslay Inbassy

---

## Page 4

NO F

ON DISSEM

In testco City, to

attend a student meting te

Do hold on A July 1000 by "progressite politieal

DArtlos" to select delogates to tato part lu the

Latin Anerican Congress of Youth to be bold An

Cuba.

MAL TIC Recepton.

A report dated 10 July 1800, Bron a

annelly celsable source, reported a pro cubas,

anti-United States student denonstration in front

02 the United atates Inbassy and the Mational

PALACE.

One stient, Corlos CETIL Tojsie, trled

to burn a United Stores flag but FOlIO force

fully frevented rais) One of the throe principal

organliors and losters af inin tenonstration vau

lango NiO solendor.

Excelsior, 20 July 10e0, reported that

soven berican foulestore and 36 Mesican studente

lott for abans on 20 July 1000.

One of the

stadonts vas lago TULlO telers.

On S August 10C0 6 anally goliablo sourco

reported that Vicanto IMPARDS TOlediBO, LOId TULIO

Melendon that bis bork loOKed vOrY BOOd. LOUDALIO

Toledans ranted to cos T0l10 Melendez on eno

Wednesssy"

ans soid no gould look tomard to the

mith mach pisusure."

On 10 Angunt 1960 a usually rellatle

Ing by may of Veracrun aboerd a Vugochay sbig on

11 AUgUEt 1050 SOS FUGUSLEVIS. A INSON O FULIO

He Lender®

expenses wire being paid by the Yugosley

Governest, according 10 ibis source.

On 3 October 1960 a unily rollable cource

reportod that ingo TULIO Malondes vas one of a

froup which arrived in Meride fron Fbane.

On 10 October 1960 a falily reliablo soupco

reported tigo TOLIO lolendon as one of the lesterg

of tho "BloQue Istino sericano" or "Frente Univer

sitario Latino Anoricono" shich ma reported to be

constantly sttaching the tonicas Cover mont.

The Unsted States Kaval Attacho, Mexico,

bao additional intoration on subject's travel..

behind the Iron Curtals.

SECRE

NO ISO

"DISSEM

---

## Page 5

NO F

SEC

MeSEl

00 13 Jarary 1061 a sunlly reliable

narco roported that Ingo TUllO salondes. had

born arrected ('slong with otta tommista")

and Jallod for tho cardion of the visit o1

Tals source

said that ingo- JonIo solonder asd Alfredo RIO3

Camrons (20 called then "Commat attents")

and boen la touch wits the Yugoolay Luisay,

the polish Emmany, end the tulay habnosy 18

Maxico.

ke said those too his viested 1igo.

BINVIE, POLIS, the VISE, and CUi, CItE

posses

Bald by thano courantet corcrmmenta."

In 15 Febrary 1901 reliablo pources

reported Blens and Lizarial arrantanonts for

ago TO kolenter to violt the soviet Unita.

of mame collability, aid that hago Tula

"had comuniot tensenston," lad

Jart returned fron a viole to crocholerchie,

A falsiy rolinhle source reparted o

# October Ass that Eago Fillo Kolender 5a3

ono of tho leaders of th comuntos crimierto

Usiversitye

A AUgESE 1032 B

-COLONE 101009020

* who cade

no us don father el Rigo-1UkD clendes (lo,

Rhe Colanal Gire, bas

"blesamee 10c0t1f1ca09

can Fice: 64S740

Rus 0sx2d

f02 as Lateruler

PIER COIN ALIASIAN CATION LICHUCA NOVIE.

herEIng to s roLlable source, ca

31 MuGuE 1002 INCO MiLIO Helender spoke with

my First secretary and Charge d'Alsires In

Manico, thoro ma encaged in Cuban Intolligence

activitieo),

of tho Cuban Embassy, to say be

HeLendor

LAte At SINOBAS" 1030.

Ingo TULIO

Cavo hin bone adiroos Bad sald be had

to participato in a "round table" at the io

pratory school befero coming to see the

SECRE

• NO FONTEAL DISSEM

---

## Page 6

OH DISSEM

On 8 isy 1969 a rellable source reported

that nigo TuLIO Molendos InfOrmed Franko MILI-

JANOVIL (Intelligenco Officer of the Yugoulay

embasay) that bo (1U110) was anuble to meet

Manel, the socretary of the leat (utterg"

Unlos, today bocause kanel had to go to Toluca.

to bring manuel to boonktast on 9 lay 1963 1

honor of "(corado do La01" and let lamel tako

part in thie breakfast.

shIshovle agreed so

haro a breaktast at sa.n, on l lay 1903 at tho

EnriA Ausbol Hotel and to live de LEUN tbere.

HOGO ApOLOgiZed tO WIIIANIVIC in advance be

chure he (ingo) could live arranged also to beve

Bel the Leader of tia MinUTE, IXAlbSESO LOSALAm

(zonelic), rho le alDo a Devuty 1n Congecoo, to

MIninNoVIC boG tho zooting vith licod Villet

onceldans of the condodorieto, do Tabajacoreo

10 GUNS

•(Tu) pout, ase Branso said tost to

and do Lion has a very cordial rooting sith

VElAsooL Cron 10:15 to 11:30 2.7. 0n 7 227

1963.

its sald

that do Lion aponks bastich and bot elong.

may toll tith Flavi.

Luro then raid that ou

SU MAY 1003 DO DIAI LEVA LUNCH FICT FS0S1E02

Adolfo LOrEs Lateos and, in sadition to tand, he

bas sorr vors taxotant

Chince to seport to

Franky.

Ianis Intcrrupted Hugo End 3916 &BA1

these reporin thould be told to le chen ve soot

Lalon (Valen of Gaversone Engieyees)

Mago doe

ocribed this orgastation da bariss 17, 000 somers.

Eung bald list ho knows its lencors woll and indi

catod no con be of service to trunko here alto.

JANOVIC ENd reported thet to had succeeded in

contacting Alfredo INISCO Moreno (uto 10 known by

QuE rapTeCORtALia in MeXiCo to ba & contact of

tha Yugonlar babesay).

lago TULLO kelender sug

costed that thoy moot at 7 jam. on 14 Kay 1963 at

tho "Casn de la Cultura del Intituto."

mudd ho rould conult his antesados and mould

then lot Hugo know 18 such a noting vere all

right.

They later: asrungod. " noting for 1.P.

on 20 1

Any 1063.

11gt

---

## Page 7

PH NISSEM

ed. On 6 Cetohor 1983 a cellable sourco sa10

that,

ACCOPIAT tO NASHO MILIANVIL, LIGO TULIO

Enlondes ses one of the direct r5 01 tbe Isat1-

tato bericaso Togoslavo and tzat,

as such, Freed-

dent

TITO should receiva TOLlO iolonier during

TITO E TISIE tO MOrICO, AlOnS VitA the OtDer

directors of the-Institute.

00 .

On 30 Octoder 1969 & rollable sourco I

marted that lugo TULIO lalendos contectod 11s0la1

S. LEONOR, cultural Officer or the soviet Esanay

in Lexico, tho 10 an Identifico Ed officer.

FuLIO askod to hove tina to visit sad talk at

length with Lanty ovur the portability of the

sorset's helping lo supply bonia and publice

Sloca to dia

"Iratituto do la Juvented bosicuna."

LEONOV prOntOd tO hIvo tho dastica dacussion

TUliO me and suld the sculots sould le

planoed io oupply booke and periodicala to sbe

1as:1$u39.

Em 4 February 1964 6 vollable source re

ported tist iugo TuLiO telender contuctud-ieroaler

of the Coeth Bainsay in lomico City, to

tOlI KUKICHT that be (TuLIO) bad due

"discurgos"

of Lic. Catare NInd Ondas and sould send tacco

TULIo nother sald ihat a diener

fon 4 Februery 1901 had boen concolled, bat ho

5 February

The riCoEE Containg the 140110012 19T8

"n" mao circulated

intassador; the reyorts

за ратістари

"c," 5b, " "1," *a," and

hated to

kha InDacondor, Political ditairo Officer, and

mOToraL Attackes.

The attsesed benurania, preparod by cur tera

sentativo in lonico City, voro givos cistriintion to

tho afficon irálcatod on sach nonoramius.

Tbese nontr

TANdA CONCATE INgO TULIO LOloNies and dis Activities La

MEX40O.

parAgraNa a "j" sbovo.)

Attechnont 3:

Kemorandin for the Asbansador,

deted 80 June 1889, concerning anti-united states

BeB1v1Ry 08

studente at the i

Universitg

os Readeo. SECRET

IN DISSEM

---

## Page 8

1d-0d0d

SECRET

01 8 0

N9

Aftnehreat Cl

Beareranian fon tho fussiancor

ented 10 August 1900, concerulug travel of tain

enn stucoata to luscalayla.

Tass repart way

dintoninted at kosoquarters 1a

Attacheat D:

senorantue to the sabassador,

dated 1i July 1065, Concorning Italion tracos ou

EUDO FUZIO BELITUDE, ALA LUGO TURNO HOlesdeR.

(An exter copy of the nonorarius sas furtinted

the acting logal Attacho on du Leptober 1062.

Paragrapes & amt la lave bon coletes, as thay

Lave Du

tenedos on the bachground of the USIA

roquest fra this pittee for dracos on subjeet,

Ant

01002

tho intoration contined there sta

£27°

Else

of the imparados ou-g 1A

conction with anthor constiire matter.

TARO

that oar yOgadcuEstive an laxiCo City coye

(polions paid) of the Yugoaler Intelligence Fer

VICO, MAN 19 8180 COMOON GIE DOIN &UC

Esingsy 0181c1a16.

heroesneun to the Ashasnador

on Lubject, dated Id Cetober loes.

senorandon for the Chied, Vars

Sootion, dated B Feliary 1801, concerting

132123

Via application.

12:0

ARIOrAtion COntained In this manorandes

CLUSTF 3705G 11049

according to reliable nication

incharod by ecuacos of tara trency, tugo 10410 1c100d01

ans boon working bad agitating for Commise and aralot

the

maltod testos for gears, both agonly and clamor

688015.

TULIO reportedly las visitor ingoslavia dad

othat over bioc countries and ta zoor to bave gore

to Crho; it is foliably reported that he cocolvod ray

ment from the cosmista for travel ho made to those

Comainlot coustried.

no io an latomant fer the lago

at also is known to

be 1e contaet with Nikolat

and w1th

the solish,

Calech, and Ciban Habassies.

SECRET

24 0S88M

---

## Page 9

14-0000

NO FOR

TOM PISSEM

The information contaliod in tale onda

ent tho attacimenta horoto cons fron oxtrunely senio

tive sources and nasaid raceir no hather disseuisa

ion is chole or ln part cutoice your oilice vithout

sador approval of this Agency.

COC. 3/700,700

31220542828%

An above

ce: Eapartasst 68 SBato, 1/A8t8.

E/3/Westco/C. Lastoo:ard

Dietribution:

& 1

1 Agr11 1064

BASIC:

пNXA-22976.

Stato

RI (201-22976), 1/0 8tt8. NO PROJECT

CI/LlA, 5/0 atts.

CI/RSA, E/0 atts.

HIV 3/HOLCO, w/O

atts.

EL/C, W/O atts.

ID/EA/ALDarsOn, 1/0 atts.

88/0/mAludgron,

w/o atta.

ER/YA/Young, /o atte.

coordination:

BR/VA/Young (In drast)

BE/

BR/O/WH/

WH/SA/Anderson

(in draft)

(la cralt)

(by phone)

SERRET

NO TRA

ANNI DISSEM

---

