# 104-10128-10285

## Page 1

104-10128-10285

• DELEI

(When Filled le)

DATE PREPARED

REQUEST FUR PERSONNEL ACTION

27 JULY 1965

1. SERLAL NUMBER

2. NAME (Last Frose-Middle)

024345

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PHILLIPS, DAVID AiTici

REASSIGNNENT

6. FUNDS

V TO V

OF TO V

V TO CF

XX

CE TO C

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

13. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

JUN | 6 | 68

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE.

ABLE

REGULAR

B. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office o

Personnel)

6135 0875

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP /WH

FOREIGN FIELD

BRANCH

16-10

16-10

11. POSITION TITLE

182. POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

ATT POL OFF

OPS OFFICER (CHIEF OF STATION)

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, esc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

FSR •

GS

0186.01

0274

16. GRADE AND STEP

08 5

16 4

17. SALARY OR RATE

16,920

S 18,170

18. REMARKS

FROM: DDP/ME/BRANCH 2/MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION/0340/

MEMORANDUM SENT TO DICI VIA DDP REQUESTED THE APPOINTMENT • OF

MR, PHILLIPS AS COS,

STATION APPROVED

ON 13 APRIL 1965. MR. PHILLIPS REPLACED MR.

WHO HAS BEEN ASSIGNED TO WE/BRANCH 2/HBADQUARTERS, EFFECTIVE

6 JUNE 1965.

FORM 250 HAS BEEN SUBMITTED

Date 28÷6

1-FINANCE

1-SECURITY

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

ROBERT D. CASHMAN

C/WE/PERS

DATE SIGNED

Security Approval has beer granted 2or

the uge

napola by is request

ichiet. Personne

sonner security Division

DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21.

OFFICE CODING

22. STATION

23. INTEGREE

CODE

CODE

NUMERIC

AIPHABETA

CODE

CODE

24. MDQTRS. 25. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE

26. DATE OF GRADE

10.

DA

Ya.

но.

DA.

Ya.

27.

но.

DATE OF LA

DA.

28.

ITE EXPIRES

1о.

DA.

ra.

229. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

T-CS

I FICA

5- AFORE

35. VET. PREFERENC

36. SERY. COMP. DATE

CODE

D HO0E

но.

DA.

11-S r.

12-10 PT.

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS GOVERMMENT SERVICE DATA

O NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

I - 10 BREAK IN SERVICE

2- BREAK ME SERVICE (LESS THAM 3 TEARS)

3- BREAK INI SERVICE (MORE THAN I TEARS

49. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTIOM /CANCELLATION DATA

то.

. DA.

YR.

33. SECURITY

REQ. NO.

ra.

34. SEX

EOD DATA

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

но.

DA.

ra.

100003

42. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

38.

CAREER CATEGORY

CAR/RESY

PROV/TEMP

CODE

39.

FEGLE/HEALTH INSURANCE

CODE

O- WAIVER

HEALTH INS. CODE

I - YES

43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

44.

FORM EXECUTED | CODE

THO. TAX EXEMOTIONS

FORM EXECUTED.

1- YES

2-10

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

STATE TAX DATA

CODE ND.NAX STATE COOR

46. O.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152

003

14;

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

GROUP 1

AUTOMATK

EXCAVE RIO NAMITE BON GRAB IN

4/00

REFSAN TO CLA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Fleproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1 RESIGN EFFECTIVE -

(Date)

(W ben Filled Ins

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESTENATONISTANE

_FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

AUG 3

3 40 PM '65

HAN ROOK

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE-

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS, TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number. Serees, City, State, Zip Code)

Items 1 thru 7

and

Items 9 thru 18a

INSTRUCTIONS

he initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items. Items 3 thru 7 and 9 th

8 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the curres

status of the employee unless specific items remain unchanged.

Item 5 - "Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

Part Time

Detail Out

Temporary

Detail In

WAE

Consultant

Military® ® o:

Temporary-Part Time

E MiCo MorSe Dicior, Deputy Director, er.)

reign Field or U.S. Field (if pertiner.

ivision or Staff (subordinate to first lin

Branch

Section

Unit

Items 11 and 15 - "Position Title" and "Occupational Series" should be she standard abbreviated title and

If difterent from the title an

series of the position occupied as shown on the most current edition of the Position Con-

trol Register or Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization, explain under Item

18-Remarks.

Item 18b - Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which

i souployee belong the one career se ice should concur in eem de, inmarks.

If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Serp

ROUTING- The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Offce of Personnel through the appropriate

Career Service official(s). In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance

approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy onl

will be sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

---

