# 104-10175-10133

## Page 1

104-10175-10133

SUBJEEZE LIHUEP-L (941-

The attached explains the involtement

of Subject in the circuss ances surrounding

the recrultment atlasp and personel barrasament

or Soviet official ANSO09TE (201-733122) 1n

June, 1963.

The parretive la presented by

1ZO MES

deeply Inrolved in the eperation.

Hale no

apparent direct or sericas damage to LIHUFF-1

resulted fron this, it must be borne in wind

that

31d rent his house fra LilurT-l

and that If the Soviets ever hed suspicions of

LIHUT -I's relatiens with

appesrance in these eveats night be viewed

by the Soriets as poositly nore thes coincidence.

---

## Page 2

L1Y:33В

After leidline

(1)

cottony

of¿ ca a duri, Elde 100d, 1 perica ry car

I new that dis old car, life en we osi

and/pallecion sas

there, so'I cropt through the bushes up to the rall, olinited over the biel:

wall of my jard, ar crept along tia

side keeping in the shedors and tryiro

to see 1rto my hisse to sec 18 enjody was in thero.

I fInally rade my toy.

to the buck: door. Looked in and desermined that there was not unjbody 1n stere,

but 1f there was I had every right to come inis my cim bouse, and I found tai

I vas not particularly afraid so I decided to go In. I quietly opsaed the

bach door, case into the house, quicily looked around the corter into the

tedros and into the bathrood, and decided that there was not anjoody in there.

I sullied over and closed the front door, which us wide open, quiebly drea

tue drapes und turned off the lights. I then changed into old clothes and

tennis stoes, got a flasilight cad walked over to the kitchen virdor, shirad

my fleshlight Into the face of one of the men sitting in the car just outcid..

I HEs Only

able to chine 1% or one tons fece so I hold 1t there for a little

while then snapped it off and valked back to a good corner Inside the bouss.

• Inere I vaited with the flashlight in hand kaowing that the people outsize

could not enter through the front door and 18 they entered through the baci

"¿oor l'à benbio lo club ono of thez end kick the other ono beforo cither of

-them vas áble to do enything. I siood there and heard them cose up to the

fron: door and try the front door. Bit, then they vore unsuccesnul they

didn't do any soro or case around is the back. they then got into their earo.

started 1t up, turned 1t arouad and drove ofi. Maile they kere turning arouss

I veni out the back door, elsabad up on a sink, so I could see over the rail,

and watchod then drive off. I didn't roally lon how many people tiere outside.

Nor did I kron hor tony people hid left in the car. thinking thet lois nitro

heve been a decoy and that they right have left romaborly behind. I silently

• elimbod up on to the roof of the hosso and naised acrosa the 2oof and peepea

over die cage shiring that li there was ond person left berlnd'I could Juicy.

Da hia prora the 1005 and sericasty Injuro hia. Inera mas nos anybody shero i

so I left the house, malied un to te lindlend's hourn LINUrite and

• and

told the frally ta: there hed bon core sirine poople haging arduno

when I ease rose, that taey hed lunged for the car did made an obvious atterio

• VRI

---

## Page 3

(2)

do ect at the door badle, mad lal I had no 10ea th0 they dore ete. I das

cufficiently scared end pur the car in reverse, tached up end took se down

and pailed 1t out of algil. I copinined that I had climbed ovar the back

nell and to ca. They vero quiel are dê the probion diree tiey hud observedo

or thought they hed observed, people hanging around tho house all dry. Thoy

painted out to Is too, that when their 1ô jeer old son, Eill, vas riding on

horseback he encountered tro nen sto hed juat arrived in a unite Canaro driven

Dj a middleased or jounger blond ledy. They got out of their car and ralked

up to my house. Ons of them, he caid, has carrying a pipo and the othor one .

vas carrying a screwdriver. The son asked if he could help these ne. but thes

rushed him off saying thai ho couldn't. The tho men peered in the front gate

and stayed around, hanging around for quite a shile until a bluo Chevrolre

appeared and tho poople got out of 1t and nent innido tire houno, While

these people mo analdo the hoses, sho dua ma dutiali iso devundi sisas to

• house,

LIHUFF-1

After spending coetime in the house,

reported to me

to men cans out and there has sont confusion foing on around the car and they

• couldn't seem to ba able to otart 1t.

"Finally, the trio ran who had been inside"

the hous left and the other/sot in the say and left. None of the hamitE-l

farily was erectly sure that sas going on except that there has confusion

arzund the car. Eventually all the people loft one say or anothor.

I said that I kas very cencerned about these people hanging around my

house, Thut I didn't Ilke the idea of people being Inside my house and I

LIHUTT-1

vented to call the police, Hirs.

said that she had called her huoband

and he was coning right hone, and that he hed some very good contacts in' .

INPURE

and he would probably ba ablo to help out in this matter. I

asseed to walt untll he got home and that I hould go and get my car and bring

It back home, unloh I then did. I spent the reat of the night with the

LIllUFF-IS

Ivisiling and as quickly as possible I noved the conversation

shay fron this to other colpletely unimportant things. I decided in the

pretence of.

•Rhas there probably dos not any renson to tet contammod

¿bout this, that it mas probably Just sona siudeats trying to make me 100k

foolish or sonothing on that order.

2

---

## Page 4

(3)

Ons 1inã ina: I forgo to rentica ran that lirgo..

vas extrenait

1.03

upset becice a tull bloud men/s dixicon policeman cure up to her house after

the kids reported the pople deft, They regerted that a cor hne been stolen.

she asked who the blund mu was, aod he suld he sonted to call his embing.

Stra

brightened up and and asked 1f ho tas an heerleen, but he said no, "urs."

One of the sids asked if "uns" meant Uoll,s.s., and he

tade no attengt to hide

the fact that he was ton the sovlot Encatsy. They barked in tell d

11NUTT-1

house, and in fact 1t ras lator reported last he tried to talk to Kirs.

In Russian shich upset her even nord.

The tall blond sin used the tolophone,

LIHUF}-1

and es far as firs. -

_Anora, ho ded call his entissy.

Earlier, when I arrived at the Univeralty behina the Russian car, I

told the It., for the University police force that I wanted the car toned

away at 9330 the next morning if 1t was still there at the time. med he erld

that ho would be glid to sI it uns.

LInUrt-15.

When I scat to set my car after talking to the

around 23:70

hours. I did'so dom the rose past the entrance to sy house out to the rain

highway fi. ¿ to 100% tround. I went dom as fer as The Lady's Bar, When I

passed the corner of the main highway and the roud leading off from it to my

house, I sar & blue Chevrolot which looked very much like the our we had, pushed

dom to tao Jalversity and sors people otarding around 1% Including at leasi

one uniformed policeman. I concluded that this was conneoted with this case.

I went down to the Indy's Bai, turned around and"came back up the main hiehras,

but from a point considerably belo: tron where that oar was parked until con-

siderably past 1t I kept a bue botween those people and mynelf and I don't

thiris, on the bases of later things, that they have snid, that they saw me come

back up the hill, Tho tus effectively chiclded no all the way up. I vent

clenio up to Cuajimulpa thon and turned dom the road that lendo to ny house

so I didn't havo to pass them again and vient on in and parked ny oar insido the

coapound,

Of The next morning I went to tho Univeralty nt about 8 d'olool and noticed

that ACDUiT Sque Chevy was gone from the pursing lot, Then I Morked unt12

my secretary notified no that sure federal plainólothed policenon mere theire

IDiti-E

• I Iredlately went to my office and found three on four

Federal policenen outalio this office and unfortunately the late of our police!

VIRS

---

