# 104-10181-10047

## Page 1

104-10181-10047

A INSPRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

Fill in Sec:. 2. on

back. Dotach back

flap and forward to RID.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless

records significant action

consents requiring, preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

RIDAN

propor.

inseri proper?

below

and forward docuser: to RID/AN.

FRUFIR FILENO

BETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

TO ALL ADDRESSIES

PILL IN SECTION! ON BACK. IP APPROPRIATE

CONMENTS

ROON

NO

5C

35

DATE

FORWARDED

ANITIALE

290500

CCUATTO

wE/Be/U

2P

35

12$5

-APR-26 1989

=

4 MY

#lla 207-257527

The per lack somewhere;

2 NOK

TO

SR/CIl

2.

$.

5K/c1lF

hams entis

5R/IIK.

8.

9.

To sette

18.

•12.

13.

14.

15.

18.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICHOFILMEO

6100

USE PAIVIOUS

25085

# NOY

MICROFILMED

OCT 8 1970

DOC, MICRO, SER.

ABSTRACT

INDER

FILE TITLE

ILE NUMBER i PRIMARY CODE,

201-287527

OCEEMENT DATE

GOENMENT NUMBER

119ApT 1963

SECRET

38388

(40)

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Chiet/ FIOB

J. F. Heredith

XSLOBODA, Bad lair

4550565

30 september 1965

+01-18752716

I. 'At the request of the Deputy Chief, SAS, & murmary has bee

repared concerning Vladimir SLOBODA

Polish-born Unlted States Ar

nlisted man who defected on 2 August 1960 and vas granted politica

asylum by the USsR.

BACKGROUND

The following background information concerning SLOBODA was

obtained from Army Chief of Staff Intelligence (ACSI).

SIOBODA sas born in Podkamlen, Poland, on Y January 1927

where he attended elementary and high school untid 19:3.

employed in the offfee of the myor in Podkamlen from January 19k3

to September 1943.

At this time the German Army occupied Poland

and SIOBODA vas sent to Germany as a forced laborer for the period

September 1913 to May 19:5.

When the war in Europe ended in June

1915 SIOBODA returned to his home in Podkamien and was apprebended

SLOBODA stated he was interrogated and forced to

work for the IKVD in Brandenburg, Germony, as & Russian and German

Interpreter/translator unt1l May 19:6.

He escaped 1n May 1946 and

eut to Western Germny where he vas placed in a DP camp in Kassell,

Gertiny: SLOBODA remained in the DP camp until February 19i,8 ‹ben

he enterited to ingland under the sponsorsbip of the Agricultural

Comnittee, Isle of Wisht, Fagind. He retured to Germany ta July

1952 to obtain information relative to alien enlistment in the U.S.

Regular Army and was accepted for enlistment under this progren in

April 1953.

'SIODODA entered the inited Jtates as an alien enlistee

coldier in Hovember 1953 and was assigned to Fort Dix, He: Jersey,

for baste training.

Upon completion of his bale training be was

assigned to the 525th MI Group at Fort Erags, Horth Carolina. His

duties with the unit as that of a langunge instructor in German

and Russian plus being an Interpreter/translator in tbe same

Languages. SLOBODA beesme & naturalized eitizen on I' August 195

and the same month was assigned to the 513th MI Group with duty

station at Frankfurt, Germany. This was his place of aseignment

when ke defected.

SECRET

600 0 1

Exstedad fun talent:

Archasestiented

4:1-257527

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEGREL

30 ACCUrdINE tO ACSI, SIOBODA ni imestliated in 1752, 1954,

1956, 1957 aid 1151 with i'avorable results. A: part of each invests.

sation s polygraph exmination was given.

The only deception on

JOBODA's part revenled by investigation and polywraph as establiahed

In 1954 by his adulasion that he had meried in England on 12 February

053 rrior to bie enlistment in the U.ô. Army unter the allen program

ster Deeming a U.S. Citizen on l4 Auzuet 195 PLOBODA sad granted

final SYpe EECRIT elearance on 21 August 1958.

4. Invertigation by the Army sorealed that:

a. SLOBODA telephoned hie wife on 2 August 1960, stating be

night not return hone, and on i August he sent his vite 2000 lest

Germen Marke (about $500.00) On 9 August be sent his wife a

post card poetmarked berlin stating "take care of yourself and

children--go home to mother, I'11 try to help you in bagland."

An Interview with bia wire revealed he was depressed over gambling

losses estimated to be about $1000.00.

D. SIODODA had purchased a round trly plane ticket to Berlie

irom Cologne on 2 August, PAA Flight 542/43.

C. Members of SLOBODA's unit revenled that his gumbling and

Indebteriness vere reported to his superlor In March or April 1960

and that SIOBODA vas counselled and directed to fet bla peracnal

alairs in order. He borrowed $300.00 from the Anertean Express

Company and appeared to be complying with the instructions of his

d. LOBODA performed clarieal duties in the Publication

proto sent a do

Procurement Section of the Collection and Dissemination Battalion

ASSESSHENT

07 DAMAGE RESULTING PRON DEFECTION OF SLOBODA

In August 1260 Col. Fran: ROSS, Chief of the 513th MI Group,

made the following summary concerning SLOBODA:

Access to clascliled Information linited to priority ITI

collection of publications.

Duties contined to clasaltying, filing and llating of

publications collected overtly. Did not contact sources for

materint. Did tose translating of documents. Ela dirty was least

senaltive in unit.

-2-

SEGRET,

---

## Page 4

SECRETA

ata re Cano King versonnel,

• Can Elve nottine valua data tee care perpenalt

they get anyway irs people they place in Carp King--trientelde

Stress.

d. Duties did sot bring his in coutect uits Collection and

Cs personnel.

5. Col. HOSS reported a discussion with a Caft. MNITKOrY, O-2,

/ Corpio, interein NETNIrUF? indicated that SIOBODA "2s an offleer ir

Uliah Intelligence prior to defecting from Poland, adding that thi

as common knowledge at Port Bragg where SLOBODA was stationed fra

1954 to 2958.

OTS: Thia allegation appears to lack any factual basis, judgi

• the results of five beerground investigations of SIOBODA and 1'1

polygraph interviews by tbe Army between 1952 and 1953. Otber soureen

Indicated no reoord of SLOBODA's being connected vith Polish Intel-

ligerce.)

7. One Captein Jack KARNING, U.S. Aruy, stated in Frankfart on

2 September 1960 thet be knew SLOBODA well as a meriber o? his (MAXATIC's)

Section 525 MI Group at Part Meade, Maryland, in 1953 and that SLOBODA

then had access to cunsiderable personality injormation concernine

Army Intelligence.

SLOBODA'A KNOWLEDGE OF CIA PERSONNE

D2.08

No 8.XL

Tron 1956 20 19631

_CIA starf employee assigued to the

¡SaY SLOBODA

about three times in the latter's orfice concerning the acyuisition of

plane, ete.

knosledge of FLOBODA. Hone bed any personal contact with him but

felt that they had seen b'm at the Camp King coffee bar•

but 83

thoucht 1t conceivable that SLOBODA could have learred the true panes

POSSIBLE RECRUTIMENT ATTIRT BY SLOBODA

SECRETI

---

## Page 5

SECRET

"The tiro mist recent SIS recruitment speritions wore directed

against e mirent officer no n Depeutrent o: the Army Cirilian

nss: ned to USARBUR Intelligence in West Berlin. Both appeaches

vere ude Ith letter: delivered outside normal postal chopels

an? "ere preceded by telechone calls stating that the letter. had

been delivered.

The letter; Invited the USAREUR personnel to attand

meeting- in East Berlin with Soviet representatives. Both vere

promiser substantial payments li they agrees to cooperate. Ii the

offery vere refused, allege operational errors comitted by both

individuals would be reported to USAREUR Intelligence authorities.

The method of nuthentication employe? in both cases involved songe

broadcast et a certain time over the Group of Soviet Forces,

Germany (G3FO) radio isellities. The phraseology and contents •

indiested that the letter. had been prepered by the same egengg and

possibly written by the sene parson.

The sinilarity to earlier

approach letters, tentstirely identi'led as having been written by

the Cornittee for State Security (KGB), suggests that the XGB was

also Involved in these uperatione.

"The lead on the civilion employee apporently was provided by

USAREUR intelligence e.ector Vladimir SLOBODA, who deserted is

August 1960 and snught asylum in the USSR. The initial telaphove

call advislay, thet the letter hnd been dellvered la also belleved

to have been made by STOBIA. The lead on the warrant officer as

probably obtained by tbe SIS from Poliah Intelligence which sue-

ceeded in neutrallzing several sources handled by the arrant

me internation nas presumably ferraried to the hoB by

oviet intelligence advisory vorking ith the Polish servlces.'

CORCLUSION

10. It is not known wether SLOBODA is nirillated with the soriet

Intelligence Services at this time. Aecording to a Forelga jervice

Dispetch, datel 19 Degerber 1962,

iron the Anerican Embassy, Moscow,

MrS Hary SCHULEZ DUTKANICE, ife of Amerieen defectorWareph DUIKATICE

(reportedly now deceased), stated during an intervies at the Babassy

that she bad frequent contact "ith "Walter" (probably Vladinir) SLARDA

and his british site who resided in lvoy. According to Mrs. DUIKANIC,

SLOBODA was digillusioned and vas ettempting to leave the soviet laior

John F. Meredith

JFM: knd

SECRET

-b-

---

