# 104-10170-10155

## Page 1

104-10170-10155

ESTORES NSE DEL EASE 1934

CLA MISTURICAL MAMEN ENGGRAM

UNCLASSIFIED

INAL

i se

ONLY

U

CONF. NTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUNECT, a

fron

Chief, CUREA

NO

DATE: 4 OCT 196?

BATE

OFFICER S

INITALS

#E CEVES

C/E/BC/C

4 € 20 .

1-4: Per ous

concisition.

Live the go onesen

1Q.

01.

Thim on it.

12.

14.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

MEVORANDUM FOR: CINiCIC

SUBJECT

Poloni procriver, Canadia, in

on Fe the Garrison

REFERENCE

sub cat:

KiTHA: /Carrison Investigation

27,16-8

1. Reference iorwarded a Cl/kid memorandum about NORTON

to

Do Stace rint diate Fil reports have shown thai

NORTON is a con mañ, and U.S, Air Force Medical recorde have re-:

vealed that he was discharged in judy 1350 as a result of psychiatric

problems, having tried oa two or more occasions to commit suicide.

NORTON's lics abou Ch frst appuared in the Vancouver Sun on 5

August 1967.

2. The allached FBI eepori, DSB 77295, 10 April 1967, concernis

another esample of disinformation appearing in Vanccuver, involving the

Suz, and related lo the Garrison casc.

A chock of Agorcy files showed

thal we have no record of Trevor LAÜTENS, Mario GRACIAS, or €

Miss Dorothy WilTlY. The reicroree of the unidentitied caller to

GRACIS may have been a garble for Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez, whom

Garrison has named as one vi lie assaisias of President Kennedy but

who appurrs to have disappeared or to be non-existent.. There are no

Agency traces linchding JAWAVE) or GARCiA.

3. The Comniuaist press generally and Sovict news media specifically.

hare given Garrison's story enthusiastic coverage and support, because

it is nbviously in their interest to maintin that President Kennedy was

Z/BR:

---

## Page 3

SEORET

2

assassinalod nu: bi pro-Communil Lee larry Oswald but rather as

result oi a right wing conspiracy involvira CH.

4..

The suracing

of two such allocalions in or through the Vancouver

Sun scems lo place i sirain on coincidence.

Do you have any information

aboui the use of the Sun in dirt arracirag of MACADER propaganda

againse ClA? Is there any intormatior about contacts between employees of

tho Sin and ropresentatives d. Soviet inteligence? If no such information

is at hand, i

it would be appreciated in those crestions were forwarded lo

the Station:

Alihouza Headquariers has no record di Trevor LaUTENS,

it is conceivable that Sition tiles may also noid information about him.

Donuvan E. Pratt

DC/CI/R&A

Attachments

Distribution

Orig & l - Adressce

1 - A/.DCI (Mr. Goodwin)

l - General Counsel

1 - Office oi Security (Attn: Mr. Paul Gaynor)

1 - CI/Rid Carono

1 - DP fo. file (New Vancouver file)

1 - CI/R&* (Miss Smith)

N.2. Station not redacte)

in prevais revier -

nor was l New Voncouver

Filo)"

SECRET

---

