# 104-10209-10165

## Page 1

104-10209-10165 -

2 MAR 1955

302.92CT

Fettled sures al 141458118101

Xiaruin raiTOr, Pondill Correctlo

1. "eference la anda so your 11l+ +447 (5) 1-37772 B108

It may be of datorast to your riflee to sots the {01l+us

colnelia. das In

CABALD:

weeks durind 8oo Hiccor of 105à and curies the pardoe

eld unt aftire do "lash unell Januarg "1 Marina

OSSALD, RECOrEla: 10 her uns testlaory, artired 1r

Kiask Cubara Rio dad of Augurt 1099.

Is literulers on 3 ase l My 1961, In Coastages,

Pancarl, uito an eapioger e!

aids Miercy lie was turem

KATOR cla1as to bare bena sorethingel edilly 1a

As much, a cialiid to save eltracesa to

Misdell a proup el yondi fouleis ebo displayor an

mansual carloaley abore the atariard ei diries lu the

Unltod States sod Hestors Europo and oscas Isteresta

eraserco arenad sirls, caro, lievlas a trod tire sai

those young sovieto. secordlaN tO SNITCR. UM a 50005

ma aired IPoT (LL), Vipse Incher 1ss a 30010r 19)

soveral' It 1a Interantias Ciat OStAiD aloo reperteály

Dit of

1004-77

SE& JET

---

## Page 2

-2=

considered binnell to be an ediley as sha only Aborteas

residing 1n Flask and

attracted sore or lear the game

typo young sorioto in alé sairor.

It should be notes

that OSWALD Listed icons h1s close frienio in lias

a young Soulet dared Pavel COLOVACY, ulose Esther

ostenalbly vas a Sovlet erey veneral.

Both KAiTOR and OSWALD had served as enlisted men and

cachniciens in the linitad Scates larine Corps.

do According to s ripore from your ietinie office, catca

14 Auguet 1964, iliToR 18 ciployed by the Univoralty

of Michigho, Anu Arbor, Michiran, as a lecturer in

siave languages and ilterature in Lie univerelly's

College cs Alturature, Selenor rid Arto.

Accordiag

tu prese raports, ilarlo: OSWAld la currently enrolled

n a spectal zagllah laguere course t the liniveraly

of tichlgun, Ann Arbor, dichigan

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR POR PLANS:

Signed: Joha C. Mertz

JANES A'GLETOX

CSCT - 316/00925-65

Dietribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/CI

_I- C/CI/SIG

1 - C/CI/R&A

1 - C/SE

1 - C/SK/CI

2 - C/SR/CI/R (hold ey & comeback cy)

1 - SR/O/US/d1

1 = 201-239,740

SR/CI/Research:

26 February 1965

*ET

!

---

