# 104-10183-10428

## Page 1

104-10183-10428

SECRST

17 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR TIE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Neeting with AMIlP/1 in New York 4 June 1965

4 June 1965. othe first was a

Two meetings were held with AMHIP/l in New York on

„brief luncheon meeting from 1340-1445

between A/1 and(R. I. Webster) (known to him as "Harry Wills").

The

second was at the lotel Roosevelt

from 2030-2230 during which A/l

was introduced to Ar, Harold Swenson (as "Mr. Safely") bylebater,

abroad' since

A/l had little news to report. He said he had not been

his return from,

Europe in April, but that he plans to

make another trip to Europe in July "for about 10 days":

made brief trips in day

"Mr. Breitheim"

to Philadelphia biss petit

to Puerto Rico 5 June on business, returning to New York about

During the trip he was going to discuss the possibility of

establishing a shop of his jewelry fiam in San Juan.

He was asked if

he espected to see Manolo RAY there and said that he probably would,

they were friends.

3. A/1 said he had not heard recently from ANLASHl/1 or AMLASH/3,

in Cuba. He had received a letter from AMLASII/2

from Madrid dated 11 May and passed it to the case officer.

He said he expected something (anti-Castro)

October 1965, but he did not appear to have any

firm basis for this date.

Prior to his next trip to Europe A/l would like guidance on

two matters:

02

What he should say to (UNSNAFU/19 when the latter raises

the question of the report given him in Paris in April

that ODYOKE might deal with anti-Castro elements if

they could get rid of fidel.

(0) (1719 to work for him at the Embassy.

Whether We have any candidates for him to suggest to

The possibility of A/l sending a representative to Cuba to

assess remaining loot (mainly

is pending. (His best candidate is his teneva rep.

antiques and pictures) on our behalf

At the evening session Swenson had a general discussion with

stressing the necessity of obtaining more details on the Cubans

Mt whom he is insoled und their activities.

The atmosphere vas

friendly and A/l appeared to roact well to S's approach and suggestions.

The groundwork was laid for follow-up conversations with A,l, at which

it is intended to acquire from him

full biographic data preliminary to

a flutter, as sell as the information referred to above.

SECRET

---

