# 104-10076-10371

## Page 1

104-10076-10371

ROUTING

43

SECRET

TO::

FROM:

DIRECTOR

UNWAVE

ASTION SAS 8

INFO:

66

DOP, SOD 6

3,

CA 2,

"F

MINT

A0/CI 2, AD/NO, AD/RR

CA/PEO,

CA/PROP,

SR 7,

WH: 79

CI/OPS

0D/1,

TOÇS

CRET 120828Z

CUBINFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8923

12 DEC 0420Z 63

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SWMSG 317 DTD I@ NOV RECD FROM TRANSLATION

SO NOV 63. INFORMANTS ARE AUDIL 10

SURGIDERO DE BATABANO

06

REGIDENT AND FORMER WHOLESALE FRUIT. VENDOR, AND EDILIO

RESIDENT OF FINCA ALGOBIN, BATABANO, BOTH WERE RECRUITED BY (FNU)

DE LA TORRE FULL IDEN NOT ESTABLISHED. FIELD COMMENTS ARE FROM

AMSUM-4 MONITORING OF CLT. RID. ND INDEX FILED 12/01287

PEPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY A CUBA

TRAVEL OF SOVIETS FROM BATABANO TO ISLA DE PINOS.

*CONCARGO TRAFFIC BETALEN ISLA DE PIROS AND BATARANCO

LATION CP THE ATIN

OR THIS CARLE MAST

WE THE AOENED

THE ACTION UNDE

IN 78723

PEC

PRECEDENCE

RELE ANNG 10A

DATE DI

5: 4,3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DEGRAM IINFORMATION REPORT TELECRAN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

CUE SIRCATION - DISEMINATION CONTROLS

OUNIRY

REPORT NO, TDOS

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

MATE OF

INFO

MATE ACO.

PRAISAL

OURCE

iN 78723

THIS A UNEVALUATED NPOI

FIELD REPORT NO

GRADINGS

ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

ON 6 NOVEMBER 1963, AT ABOUT 6:00 P.M., TWO TRUCKS, NOT OF

U.S. MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTING A TOTAL OF 24 MEN, WHO APPEARED TO

BE SOVIETS, ARRIVED IN SATABANO, HABANA PROVINCE. THE MEN WERE

WELL-GROOMED, WORE CLEAN CLOTHES AND WERE CARRYING SUITCASES AND

SUNG-ES.

AT MIDNIGHT THESE INDIVIDUALS BOARDED THE FERRY SAILING

FOR ISLA DE PINOS. (FIELD COMMENT: A USALLY RELIABLE SOURCE

REPORTED THAT, THE ISLA DE TESORO, THE REGULAR FERRY TO ISLA DE

PINOS, DEPARTED FROM BATABANO FOR GERONA, ISLA DE PINOS, ON THE

NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMEER.))

2. ON 31 OCTOBER AT ABOUT UD:DU P.M. THO OLIVE GREEN TRAILER

ON CO

SECRET

vern holeen perimi

in centent

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1 787233

SECRET

TECS

TRUCKS HAULING BOXCE ARRIVED AT THE PORT DI SATABANO PROM

ISLA DE MINOS.

3.

ON 28 OCTOBER AT ABOUT SURA P.M., THO OLIVE GREEN TEN-

WHEELED TRUCKS DRIVEN BY MILITIAMEN ARRIVED IN BATABANO AND WERE

SHIPPED ABOARD THE ISLA DE PINOS FERRY WHICH LEFT THE SLIP AT 4:00

P.M. THE TRUCKS HAD AN ENCLOSED METAL BODY WITH SMALL SIDE

WINDOWS AND EACH TRUCK PULLED A FOUR-WHEELED TRAILER. (FIELD

COMMENTATA USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT ON 28 OCTOBER

ZIL TRUCKS WERE ON BOARD THE ISLA DE TESORO FERRY WHICH SAILED

FOR GERONA.)

4. FIELD DISSEMS CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMNAVKEYWEST.

41-0T

END OF MESSAGE WI

2U SCARON- DOORSION SORTICL

SECRET

---

