# 104-10179-10016

## Page 1

104-10179-10016

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Repróduce

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

03J

"i lov so

• DIRECTOR

FROM & NASH.

03

ACTION, AH 9 EUL. MALLARO, HH DIY NOTIFIED 2245, 20 MOV)

INTO a DE1, D/551, DO/P, COP, ACOPIA, 5/62,

NOV 21 03368 60

170.31t

PRITY DIR INFO PRITY HAVA CITE MASH 1763

M.:ET

REF

A MASH ITOS (IN 4U195))

MASH iTES (IN' 44543)46.

MASH 1701 (IN 4403V5

PRIORITY

IN ASSTO ACTION PMONS

INFORMATION

ANY OPS

, P&S OPS

INTELL

• PM CPS

LOG

• SECUR

EXEC •

1.

_MORVINS 1S NOV.

DID NOT RAISE ISLE OF PINES DEFECTION, PROSABLY ASCAUSE PRESENCE

PIETING CORDIAL BUT DULL. ANCHIRPOS

ASKED BEVDER GRJUP TRAIN

21 MRP MEN NOW MASH IN GENERAL GW TECHNIGUES. SPECIFICALLY WANTEO

THE: TRAINSO FOR SHORT PERIOD 82-3 WESTS) IN MASH AREA THEN INFILTRATES.

HOYT

STATED HAD NO CAPABILITY HANDLE LOCAL TRAINING THIS TYPE, DUT

MIGHT ARRANGE SAB TRAINING FOR SELECTED FEW AND REGUESTED FULL BIO

DATA OROSPECTIVE TRAINEES, NO MENTION ESCAMBRAY GROUP REF A.

3.: AT SECOVO CONTACT WITH AUCHIRPA! ONLY MORVING 20 NOV, 1, 890U5?

DO ISLE GE PINES DEFECTION, FOLLONS ADDITIQUAL DSTALLS TO RESS S ASS .

04 A.

IN CHARGE RSINFORCED CAPITINIA INNEDIATELY SSY MODEL

TOTAL STRENGTH 150 MEN, HELIEVES CAN INFLUENCE ADDR: 35°

YEN CE ADJACENT COMMAND OF ONE "CHINO" C TRUE NAME UNANDINI, SHINO

SHE:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TMAN THE ISSUING DiACE iS PROM.S.=IO.

Copy "=

6/PR.

---

## Page 2

CLASS: P

1139

PARTIC"LADLY LOYAL TE GASTE.

PASH 87ÉE

2

04:

SO BASICALLY PLAY IS TO FREE HUBER MATOS FROM MODEL PRISOV.

PILLY ISLAND GARRISON UNDER HIS MESIS. MOLD OUT OU SELINE LONG SNOUTH

DO PIS GET SURSTANTIAL OUTSIDE SIPPORT FROY INY AND ALL SOURCES

199 PROUIDE I'SPIRATICY OTHER REBEL ARMY, GARRISONS DO SATE FOR SNOW

BALL EFFECT.

DO TASTICAL PLANNING INVOLVES SUDDEN OCSUPATICU ALL CONC•

LISTILLATIDUS, AIR'FIELD INSTALLATIONS, CIVIL ADMINISTRATION, MOSSI.

DITA!, MILITARY MOS RESPOUSIBLE DESEUSE MODEL PRISON, MOS OF ALL

CARDION, COMMANDS NORTH OF LAVIER SWAP AND NAVAL STATICE AT NIEVA

DEPENDING OY YORD MIL COMMANDER MODEL PRICON TO GIVE

PiETNT OOPOSE CY SERIOUS ATTEMPT EDES HUBER MATOS. THIS PROMISE

SUPPTUTCLY MIDE BOTH

T TO HUBER AND MUSER WIFE.

THAS CUT IN. 18

C=12935: 1S COMMANDA, EXPECTS. APPROX SO MORE TO SIDE WITH HIM,

FS:IS :ILL BE ATLE CARRY APPROX 3,24% OF ESTITATED 3, 529 ISLAVD

SARDISCH WITH. HIM IN FIRST 24 MRS:

P. ANCHIPPO, STATED COUP 1S PLANSEO BEGIN LATE AFTERNOCU EN NOU.

40 DEGULAPO, ABAIN REQUESTED AID SUTZALIZE REBEL AIR FOSCS AUD

AESIOT4ICE PROUIDE SUOPLIESO4

CONTENTIO THAT TO HIS CERTAIN

KiOW-EaRE THE REQUEST HAD ALPAISY BEEN PUT IN CHAWELS.

THAT HIS "PROFESSIONAL ESTIGATE" AS THAT 1F, GROUP ACTUALLY SERIDYS"

ADO: " SO NOV DATE, THEY HAD BETTER ES PREPARED MOLO OUT INITIALLY

- 16007

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER TILAN THE ISSUINO DEFIDE IS PRCHIBITED

04

6/BR

---

## Page 3

14-0000đ

CLASS: PIRO RESSAGE

MASH i jÓ3

GRANT

45370

ETTI: INON ON TETIA DEI RESOURCES BEGAUSE OF LOGISTIC PROFLEMS

FUSED AY ANY SOLOGE DO PESO NO CONTENTS MADE DOS ANYTHINA SAID

THAT COILÁ ME CONSTRUED AS A COMMITMSIT.

S. ATCHIRP-I SAID COURIERS RETURNINO TO CURA SI NOU WITH

CAS NIO PROMISES DO EVERYTHINO THEY COULD TO HELP. 8BS ANCHIRP-I'S

PADFRSSIOHAL RECONTENDATIONS (ROAD BLÜCKS, TIMING, TARGETS, ETC.S

ON HOW TO EFFECT SEIZURE OF THE ISLAND.

END OF MESSAGE

CIS COMMENT: MASH reported that AMCHIRD -l 11) otated that the group in

Encambray was ready asd malting for arma.

** MASH stated that a contac with Manolo Ray on the evening of

17 November fovealed that the isle of Pines wao iãe targot mediioned in MASH 1701

(IN 44034)980

•do A courior was advided by Ray fhat abo'st 2, 000 woll armed rebel

forces were ready to turn against Castro.

But..

73 T

REPRODUCTIDN EM CY

ALE THAN THE DE. AG OFFIGE IS PRONIBITES

---

