# 104-10120-10375

## Page 1

104-10120-10375

.....

(

7 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Support Branch

FROM

Chief, Cover Support Desk

24

SUBJECT

: COVER -

(Proposal to Cover Field Assessment of

Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates)

#90682

1. Reference is made to the attached SR memorandum dated

3 February 1961.

2.. The original of this memorandun was concurred in by

Robert L. BANNERMAN, Acting Director of Security, on 6 February

1961 and forwarded to Central Cover Group. A memorandum had

been previously concurred in by Mr. Thomas CARROLL, CI/OA.

As indicated therein, a new procedure is proposed for the initial

contact and A & E screening of potential REDSKIN agents.

would considerably reduce the number of persons who are briefed

on Agency interest in the REISKIN Program inasmuch as those persons

who are rejected as a result of the A & E testing would never be

briefed on the CIA interest in same, as is currently the case.

3. This ratter was immediately brought to Mr. BANNERMAN'S

attention in view of his previcus interest in reducing the numbel

if contacts with CIA!

credentials. He concurred in the pro-

posal as is indicated above, with the verbal recommendation

to the SR representative that, after the plan has been found

feasible, possibly two or three junior personnel be assigned to

associated with CIA. These junior psychologists would then be

represented with the cover concern,

and would not become associated with CIA, thereby

obviating the possibility of embarrassment to the Agency and/or

possible compromise of the cover asset involved.

4. This memorandun is being written in order that it may

will be reduced since clearances will not be secured on poten

tial candidates until they have been favorably screened by the

A & E Staff (see paragraphs 3(c) and 4(e))o

---

## Page 2

5. No further action is contemplated in this natter by the

writer.

Ittachment:

•R Meno 3 Feb. 1961

KUHNKE/ewd (2-7-61)

CLOSED

Ervan

Kunnke, Jr.

2

•1311

---

