# 104-10192-10041

## Page 1

I104-10192-10041

CAsSISS HISTORICAL REWIEW PROGRAM

WISECRET RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

MICROFILMIO

MAR &

1965

CA/PROP, CA/O 4;

Kiss, Whis=

12, WHI 8,

• А'.

2 FES ONUSSE IN 80271

4p0

FROM MAVE T

ACTION IWa

INFO

CCI, D/DCI, DOP, ADOP, SUD 4

CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/PS, FI, FI/D,

VR, FILE, CS/RF.

SECRET 2450362421

DIR INFO

LANT BAIR CITE NAVE 8Ó18

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMCLÄTTER-I WHO MET WITH FRANK FIORINI AND BILL JOHNSEN

AT SOURCE'S HOUSE 14:5) ED FEB 65 FIORINI TOLD SOURCE THAT JOHNSON

SAID HE SAW JACK GRIFFIN AFTER HIS RELEASE BY U.S. AUTHORITIES FOLL-

WING PLANE CRASH, BUT JOHNSON WOULD NOT DISCLOSE DETAILS THEIR CONVER-

R:

SATION.

RID: INDEX. FILED Z+/N36Z

6 REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSENS

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: 1. INSISTENCE OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA THAT THE MIRR SOMS THE

CITY OF HASANA.

2.. USE OF AMERICAN PILOTS IN MIRR AIR STRIKES

IN COMMENT.

R

WHLSAS

LIZ MH/REG

RELEASING Males DI

Baunds

CHARLES

BOUNDS

B-201-951689

1Д* 1 389

18-9-0918

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

24 FEBRUARY 1965

05197

SECRET

TOCS. 08-315/00652-65

X ROUTINE

I PRIORITY

BASED

ON UFG 6747

NO PROJECT

(AMCLATTER/ 1)

LIAISON

19-300-20

DOONOOADINO ANO

DEILABSITICATION

1838

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

/82

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

5

?

FROM

ACTION

NO

PAGE TWO

IN 8627i

DO1: 13 - 20 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITEO STATES, MIAMI (22 FEBRUARY 1965)

urG 6747.

SouRcE A MIAMI SUSINESSMAN IO WAS A RESIDENT OF HAGANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO

U.Se INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OUTAINED FROM BILL JOHNSON.

iN COMMENT.

RELEASING I WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

TOCS

I ROUTINE

BASEO ON

LIAISON:

SECRIT

DACLASSIRIÇA

REPRODUCTION BÝ OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

(PRIORITY

Copy Na

---

## Page 3

068 309

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENZINL

L500

MFG. 12044

CONTAPED DISSOM

@ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

• 20 FEGRUARY 1965

- SUBJECT

1. MIRR: INTENTION TO BOMB HABANA

USE OF AMERICAN PILOTS IN MIRR AIR STRIKES

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (22 FEBRUARY 1965)

SOURCE

TDCS DB-315/00652-65

DISTR 24. FEBRUARY 1965

REF

iN 86271

FIELD REPORT NO. URG 6747.

APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM BILL MOLISON.

eir list

l...

ON 2,8 FEBRUARY 1965, BILL VOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOI WHO

ARRANGES THE SUPPORT ASPECTS OF AIR STRIKES AGAINST CUBA SY ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA'S MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCION-

ARIA (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY). SAID

THAT THE MIRE WAS MAKING 182-POUND "ASH CAN"• EOMES FOR SUBSEGUENT

RAIOS, "MORE THAN AMPLE TO BLOW UP THE OIL TANKS IN HAJANA:" JOHNSON

SAID THAT BOSCH STILL

INTENDS TO SOMB HABANA, BUT "IT WILL SE AGAINST

MY ADVICE". JOHNSON LATER ADMITTED THAT HIS OUN MOTIVATION IS PURELY

MERCENARY. (FIELD COMMENT: SEE DCSD8-315/89550-65: DATED 16

FEBRUARY 1965, FOR INFORMATION ON BOSCH'S INSISTENCE THAT THE CITY

prohibited by law.

stucted brones

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED O'SSON

des leashcare

ARMYJACSI MAVY AlR

USIA OCI ONE

OCR ORR

00 EXO

AVCI.2 CIA/NMCC.. FBI. IENS

TREASURY CUSTOMS.

BORDER PATROL COAST. GUARI

---

## Page 4

CPO 1-34 (201

CONTROLE ASSEM IN OT

2

CONFIDENTIAL

TDOS 25-

PAGE

515/00652-65

OF HABANA DE THE MIRR'S NENT TARGET. THIS MISSION WAS GIGINALLY

SCHEDULED FOR 16 FEBRUARY.)

2.

JOHNSON ALLEGED THAT THE FLANES OPERATING FOR THE MIRR ARE

LEAVING FROM THE UNITED STATES.. WHEN TAMPA WAS MENTINEO AS À POSSIBLE

DEPARTURE POINT. JOHNSON SAID: "YOU'RE GETTING CLOSE."'

3°

JOHNSON SAID HIS SMALL GALUP PRACTICES GODD SECURITY.

"WHEN WE GET A PLANE AND A PILOT, WE CENTRAÇT THEM FOR THREE OPERATIONS.

THE PLANES ARE FLOWN BY AMERICAN PILOTS SINCE "THE CUSIN PILOTS DON'T

HAVE THE GUTS."

4. JOHNSON CLAIMED THAT JACH GRIFFIN, THE AMERICAN PILOT WHO

CRASH-LANDED A B-25 EARLIER THAT MENING, HAD. TAKEN PART IN A PREVIOUS

RAID ON CUBA. HOWEVER, HE DID NOT ANOW IF THE DOWNED 5-25 HAD EVER BEEN

USED IN ANY, RAIDS. JOHNSON SAID HE DOES NOT KNOW DAN SHAW,

GRIFFIN'S CO-PILOT ABOARD THE DONNED 3-25.

5. JOHNSON INSISTED THAT THE RAID WHICH THE MIRR ANNOUNCEO AS

HAVING TAKEN PLACE ON SAHIA HONDA ON 13 FEBRUARY HAD TAMEN PLACE

IN SPITE OF. THE FACT THAT CUBA HAS NOT ACKNOWLEDGEO IT.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINESO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF.

STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, IONS, BORDER. PATROL, AND USCG.

8. 38 AN °55

HIV/ Mig

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

GATROLLED DISSEM

---

