# 104-10243-10128

## Page 1

104-10243-10128

ORIG

s/wH/C

EXT

DATE :

DISSES EY

FRONE DIRECTOR

coar: WH.48

= CLAGIFICATONS

O PILE RID

D INDEX

O NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES 21

SECRET

000040008000028000) DOOKEX

ROUTING

i S!

| 61

2

3

O DOTROY D RETURN TO -

15O: VI, FILE I RID COPY

evity

COMPATE AND TIME FILEDI

17 15 44 Z CITE DIRECTOR

«leps ufic-2.

REFERENCE AUN

36048

то[

SECRET CITE DIRECIOR

PRIORITY JAVE INTO DOST/NEW YORK DOSI /WASHINGION

TYPIC iNCORE HIZASTE

RET JiWAVE 5867. 97261

1. DECITION CONCERNING. HOLDING OF SIMMIT NEETING EXPECIES TO

a. DE FIRNED UP EY FOREIGH MINISTERS DURING UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY SESSION.

*GS NOT YET IN RECEIPT OF FORMAL GUIDANCE FROM STATE DEPARTIENT •

FOLIVER, IT APPEARS THAT US POSITION WILL BE THAT THRUST OF SUMMIT

FEETING WILL BE ON DISCUSSING MEANS OF IMPLEMENTING AND STRENGTHENING

THE ALLIANCE FOR PROGRESS. CONTROVERSIAL ITEMS SUCH AS CURA ARE NOT

DESIRED AS PARI OF THE FORSAL AGENDA, BUT WILL UNDOUBTEDLY DE THE

SLEJECT OF DISCUSSION AT INFORMAL MEETINGS. UNDER THESE CIFCUNSTANCES

ACCRE-L'S EFFORIS TO PLACE CLA ON THE AGENDA (WHICH WOLLD SE

INADHISSIDLE AT LEAST TO MEXICO, ARE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE FROM IKE

U:S. POINT OF VIEW.

t.....'.

"20. HE SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED THAT THE SUMMIT MEETING IS IMPORIANI

AS A DEMONSTRATION OF HEMISPHERIC SOLIDARITY : ND TH'T HE CAN CAUSE

#ALIASINS OFFICEN

•#PROQUET

COORDINATIEE OFFICERS

SECRET

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

QI:

GATI

DISSEN BY

O SLE RID

• BJ INDEE

O FILE IN ES FILE NO.

_ =.

MESSAGE FUNGI

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING

15

i 5

171

13

O DESTROY O RETURN TO -

WE CLEFTOP

cond:

O RID COPY

нE Pr20т

PAGE 2

CITE • DIRECTOR

36048

DAMAGE TO THIS EFFORI IF HE INSISTS ON INCLUDINE CUBA ON THE AGENDA.

ME CA: "SEFILLY ENCO"RAGE THE IDEA THAT INFORMIL TALXS COSCERNING

CUEA DURINO THE SUMMIT MEETING WOÜLD BE OF VALUE, BUT UNDEP. NO

PAGE INO DIPECTOR SECRET

CIRCUUSIANCES IS KE TO IMPLY THAT HE IS ACTING ON BEHALF U.S. GOVI•

3. IN VIEW OF ANCORE'S GOOD ACCESS TO THE LAIIN AMERICAN

DELEGATIONS KE NAY BE ABLE TO SERVICE REQUIRERENTS OF DOSIVE

YORK, AND THEREFORE SHOULD BE PROVIDED WITH A SIMPLE CONTAGI PLAN

¿HERESY DOST/NEW YORK CAN TAKE ADVANIAGE OF HIS PRESENCE IT IIS.

INITIATIVE.

SECRET

SECRET

AY OTNER THAN THE BSUIN OFFICE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

06819999488 el foes

HOUTING

BATE:

DISSEN 5Y-

O FIR BID

O no Moti

O TILE IN CS FILE ME.

•=.

MESSAUE FURM

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

2

3

DEBETROT DRIVEN TO -

- SARANCH

now: DIRECTOR

O RID COPY

ANTOS VA •FILE

0456-440TM6N76E01

PAGE 3

CITE DIRECTOR

36048

NOTE:

ORIGINATINE OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER R ORIMAN C/WH/C/MO

RELEASING OFFICER

(SY PHONE) DO/H

FOR WILLIAM V BROE CAND

SECRET

PROLAR 1

• REPRODUCTION IT OTHER THAN THE LIVING OFFICE I PROMIMITED.

---

