# 104-10172-10127

## Page 1

104-10172-10127

130A61

PCHid SNO RECORD SHEET

INSPRUCTINOS

PRIOR TO FILING

FIll

in Sect. 2.

flap and foreard io RID.

on back. Detach back T

2.

Destroy front cover sheet. unlose it

records sigulficant actioa

taken or

conserts requiring prose talion.

FROM:

1O: ACTION BRANCH

It file no. and title shown aro not

proper. Insert proper file no. belon

and

sorrari docusent to RID/AN.

ROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO

ROOM

SAS/REGISTRY

TO: ALL ADDRESSES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IN APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE

MECHINTO ; 009009010

Овек

(44 USC 2107 Note)

2520922104 el

COPY DETACHED

NW 53295 6/15/17

SAs/103/71

-& APR i963

52 APRIEN

Cay

2 AFR 1963

12 251. 1983.

R10/R2

"У.

=

1Q

81.

12

RECARDS OFFICER STAUP

Lowing sotión 18

536T

s Vitate

R.°

261 - UNE SAS/MUB

It destruotion, olto

reasons and coerdinato

If appropriato..

14.

1.17 INSEXED

RETUCY.?:

-JHUT TO ND FUR

IS T: 1) THIS

1a. SCUMENT 15

#DOS - GOSS HUORS

17.

-RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATI MICROFAMID

FILE TITLE

761÷251853

FILE NUMBRA PRIMARY CODES

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMINT NUMBER

UFGA

08129

• RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Jo. Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

104-10172-10127

DISPATCH

ChIeL SPeCIAL ASSaLIS StaCI

PROCESSING

BATED FOR UNCA AIRO

IS MACINING ALQUIALO

MASCLARTIRS DISA

ANSTRACT

і пРоди

ACCON

ML1S4H 01

FROM

Chief of Station,

SIWAVE

SUBJECT

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL/ANDENIM/1

PROGRESS REPORT 28 February 1963

ACTION RIQUIRED - RUICRENCOS

1.

Three female radio operators are now in training,

and a

fishing boat operation requiring only limited financial

support 1s ready to go as the result of the efforts of AMDENIM/1 in

this period.

He has also contributed both operational and intelli-

gence information and has had some difficulty accepting the longer

appearing basis upon which the Cuban problem is being handled.

call for him to continue fulfilling operational requirements in the

WAVE area for agent personnol and to prepare a paper on a large scale

fishing organization which would provide cover for various types of

intolligence activity.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

The recruiting and dolivery of three female agent radio

operator candidates to the Station for training was completed by

Subject during this period.

This involved two side trips from New

York City to Newark, N.J. In the course of personal trips to New York

• City and a complicated

agont holding problem.

After getting the girls

recruited and ready for the trip tr the MAYE area their clearances

wore dolayed as a result of their irving in Newark and thus not

coming under the jurisdiction of the HAVE area ODENVY office.

The

clearances were received eventually and in the latter part of Februar

one. girl arrived in town.

Despite our request for them to all come

together she as the unofficial leader of the group had come ahead to.

check out the plan and be sure that they weren't all giving up their

Jobs needlessly.. This type of logic couldn't be disputed so the game

was played out and the other two girls arrived shortly thereafter

They were handled by AMDENIM/1 thru the assessment and ICFLUTTER::

process at which point they were turned over to a JWAVE Case Officer

who will provide separate and complete reporting on then. Suffice it

to say that ANDENIN/1 did his part quite woll and although the girls

are not as good prospects as might be desired they are thus far will-

ing and able.

Their development is being documented very closely so

Continued

Disiribution:

3 ~ Addressee

C/SAS

fleet

1 CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPED

15 Kar 1963

DESPATON SYMBOL AND ROULEBLA

UFGA-8129

HEADOUAATERS PULE NUMBER

201-251853

OUTE DISPATCHEO

NER 2 1 T9E3

---

## Page 3

104-10172-10127

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

OrSDATOM STARDOL ANO NGONSLA

UFGA-8129

that this first offort with Cuban women as inflitrees will be

available for reference by all concornod.

AMDENIM/1 continued to handle ANTRIGON/2 during this period

senso of holling iit cicula fuiiuning kir surecestul exfiltra-

tion from the target nrea.

He sorved as a leg man and made a number.

of supporting contacts and investigations during the period which

assisted ANDENIM/l and the Station in their overall efforts.

AMTRIGON /2

has now indicated & desire to roturn to the target area:

His plans are

being checked

ANHELNI/1, 201-328512,

was put on the payroll at

AMDAYIW/1's Suggestion aftor

nuch deliberation.

As a long

time target

area gun runnér he is probably

the most experienced "fisherman" in the

business and well worth a nominal retainer each month for tho operation-

al information he provides and for the reconnaissance purposes he

.: Serves.

For: examplo ho was the first fisherman back into the Banks

. following

the MIG and Kidnapping incidents so that it was possible

through him to have a test run in the area

without committing a fully

qualified agent who would be much more damaging to the Station if

caught.

He is by no means a fully controlled or trusted agent.. He

is. a tool who is manipulated through AMDENIM/1 by never explaining

the true purpose behind any particular request.

*..

Regarding interral contacts of AMDENIM/1: on learning of the

well being of AMEPOCH/6 via mail to regular correspondents following

the October crisis an Sl message was sent to hin early in February

requesting that he signal via telegram code when he is ready for a

reception and that he send out SW letters on a regular basis to give

us the benefit of intelligence available to him. No reply has as yet

been received.

: This is in part due to his being in Camaguey and

probably not having received the letter (letter sent to his home in

Matanzas) right away.

Several potential internal contacts have been

spotted through a fisherman ANDENIM/1 picked up in the JAVE area by

He and two fishermen brothers by the

, Manuel MARRERO are being developed by AMDENIM/1

to return to the red In which their contacts are located in the near

Placetas and •-

other large towns in Las Villas.

Over and above these agent hanaling activities ANDENIM/1 has

continued to submit reports on activities such as the 1963 sugar crop,

AMBIDDY/ and potential legal travellers.

S His first paper on AMBIDDY

/1 was more scurrilous than complete so that he was taken to task for

contributing to the fracturing of the exile connunity without either

having or boing willing to put out tre facts to supportihis charges.

He was

pressed over a period of a month to substantiate his charge that

AMBIDDY is a "Ilttle Fldel" and finally realized that he. would never A

hear the end of it if he didn't attempt to substantiate hts claim.

He then submitted a paper which carefully based his Charge on information

obtained directly from Sori MARIN (original U R leader who Infiltrated

and was executed who helped ANGIDDY/l get his start and said that

AMBIDDY. had forged the entry on his government job record to show

that he had had combat experience during the revolution when this was

not the case.

He declined to provide further detail on the basis that

he would have to obtain factual data from other people to substantiate

the stories he had heard and that this would

call attention to his

disapproval of AMBINDY/l which he thought would be poor business at thi

tine.

The Case Officer feels that a constructive purpose was served

by

this matter, but is not deluded to feel that AJDENIM/l has changed

his spots in any way.

РОдМ

9-60

530

PACE NO

THO

---

## Page 4

104-10172-10127

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISTATON SIMOLE NE MUSIBLE

UEGA-8129 •

6. On about 29 January AMDENIM/1 called from New York City

to say

that no wanted to stop by Mashington D.C. to see a few

people that he hadn't seen for a long time.

was advised that

this was contrary to Station desires and that it was not in his

best interests.

Despite this advisement he went to fashington with

his friend AMPATRIN and did seo representatives of both ODACID and

KUBARK (under cover).

His explanation of this was that he had gone

along with AMPATRIN to Washington for business purposes and despite

his objections had been finagled into the two meetings by AMPATRIN.

He was informed that this was not belleved and that the incident

had lowered considerably the degree to which the Case Officer was

willing to accept his word on anything.

Bejond that it is felt

that he managed to let off a little steam and confirmed that his only

real chance for accomplishing anything is through JWAVE.

T. Miscellaneous items re Subject include the following.

Don

Hogan

turned up like a bad penny during

the period and made a

few

inquiries from people like AMDENIM/2 as to what Subject was doing.

No significance other than that of "fishing expedition" which

failed to turn up anything could be attributed to this visit. Sub-

ject's father has threatened to cut off his monthly stipend presum-

ably on the basis that he is complicating life for. AMBUD/l by not

joining him.

He hag heard from the Internal Revenu Service about

his application for tax exempt status for his Cuban relief fund and

is providing the additional infornation they have requested.

He

of course hopes that KUBARK will use its good offices to help get

this matter approved.

The last correspondence on this matter is

WAVE-3816 dated 22 January 1963, which leaves the next move up to

Headquarters.

INTELLIGENCE. PRODUCTION.

8. UFG 2195, Subject "Stopping of Dredging in Banes Bay"

9.

UFG 2225, Subject "Possible Construction of Submarine Base

in Herradura, Oriente."

10. COStS

1) AKTRIGON/2 salary @ $200.00 for two

months

2)

AMGLAD/1's widow benefit @ $300.00

for. two months

3) AMHELM/1's salary @ $200•00 for two

months

4)

AMDENIM/1's Operational expenses

$300.00 for two months

TOTAL

$400.00

:$600.00

28400:00

$600.00

$2000.00

PLANS

11.

In furtherence to para 4/above ANDENIM/1 is planning to 'oS

mount Operation WILE using Rolando MATEU and the MARRERO brothers to

explore a ratline into Las Villas Province.

This will be his opera;

tion with the exception of financial support not to exceed $400.00

in the first instance and bonuses of not over $250.00 apiece for the

three boys depending upon their success.

The important point here

is that they are planning on using a native fishing boat to get them

in again as it has in the past and thus avoid detection through the

sighting of a bigger boat on radar which would obviously not be

109* 530

USE FAMOUS EDITION

•I CONTINUEO

PAGE MO

THREE

---

## Page 5

104-10172-10127

CONTINUATION OF

•.- DISPATCH

DEPATON SINDOR NO NUMELA

UFGA-8129

Cuban fishing boat.

Approval to support this AMDENIAl operation is

being sought or separate correspondence..

12. ANTRIGON/2 1s being quorled on operational possibilities

as a result of his voluntary expression uf desire to return to

action.

re is boing cursiverer for use as a reconnaissance agent

who could make short trips to the vicinity of prime

targets to

obtain requisite photography.

This will involve considerable re-

training and vill bo dependent upon his ability to learn maritime

navigation well enough to get himself out of the target area 1f

necessary.

13.. By say of long range plans AMDENIN/1 has been asked to pro

-vido a paper on the organization of a fairly large scale fishing

fleet for intelligence collecting purposes.

He had previously indica-

ted a desire to try a project like this and have it be self-supporting.

ühen he admitted that it couldn't be self-supporting on a small scale

in this immediate area the matter was allowed to rest long enough to

indicate that re preferred direct requests for financial support

rather than beating around the. bush.

Then he was asked to provide

a plan for a fleet which would not

be restricted to this immediate

area and which would have the cover necessary

to operate freely nost

anywhere in the Western Henisphere.

The need for paying attention

to this field of interest as a result of Soviet interest in it 1s

obvious and hopefully something will emerge from these efforts which

will have value for other than the JHAVE operational program..

14.

Subject will continue to develop agents and information

for

the Station in response to requirements.

His professionalism is in-

creasing and by local standards can be considered good, but the neea

for formal training remains.

It is hoped that he will be able

accompany & tea to ISOLATION one day or possibly even

receive

tutorial training by himself.

END OF DISPATCH

3 00

530

SECRR

SONANUED

PAGE NO

FOUR

---

