# 104-10331-10181

## Page 1

104-0331-10181

c. 8/98?

NOTICE TO ALL CIA EMPLOYEES

FROM:

George J. Tenet

Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT: Final Document Search to Assure Compliance with "President John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992" (JFK Act)

I. (U) As you know, the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (Board) is

completing its task of overseeing the search and declassification of all Federal

government records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy by 30

September 1998. The Board and we want to do everything possible to place before the

American people the full story as reflected in government and other records.

(U) The Agency has been working on this effort since 1992 and has searched all

of the obvious databases. We want to make certain that we have left no stone unturned

and that no employee has "any records that might possibly be considered relevant to the

assassination-including any records created [or received] after 1992." (The reference to

1992 is largely intended to encompass documents which may have come into our hands

since the collapse of the Soviet Union and Warsaw Pact.)

3.

(AIUO). In accordance with the provisions of the JFK Act, I hereby direct all CIA

personnel to consider documents in their possession or with which they are familiar that

might have relevance to the Board's review and that might not have been found in the

course of electronic or inanual searches over the past six years. Representatives of the

Historical Review Program believe that if such documents do exist that they would, most

likely, be found in files that would not be known generally to be related to the

assassination or that would not be "logical" areas for systematic searches, such as

working paper files or smaller databases related to countries not normally associated with

the assassination. Relevant documents can be in the förm of papers, photographs,

recordings, tapes, or other media, and can include documents "related to the

assassination," such as later investigations, key topics/events within the Oswald/JFK

Story, or material related to key figures-such as Nosenko.

4..

(AIUO) CIA personnel who believe they have information regarding documents

relevant to the JFK review that may not have been found in previous searches should

---

## Page 2

13-00000

contact their component or directorate IRO or the JFK Project Coordinator. Directorate

IROs and the Agency's JFK Project Coordinator are as follows:

DO / IRO

DI / IRO

DS&T / IRO

DA / IRO

DCI Area / IRO

JFK Project

Coordinator

Secure Phone

William McNair

Becky Rant

Barry Harrelson

44448

54644

50104

31204

39058

31825

ector

Intelligence

---

