# 104-10326-10081

## Page 1

104-10326-10081

MHENO

95-0906823

/.

E-O.

- SECRET

SENSIND:

BO RYBAT

---=-

SECRET

PAGE

"FRP:

STAFF

CONF: EA/TIB

INFO: LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, DDO (2/P)

95 0906823

ASR

TOT :

PAGE 001

292123Z JUN 95

DIRECTOR 343286

SECREI

STAFF

TO :

_292123Z DIRECTOR 343286

FROM:

LIMIT C/EA/TIB

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: EYES ONLY - COS - WEEKLY HIGHLIGHTS

REF:

NONE.

TEXT.

PERUSAL

ACTION REQUIRED:

PLS HOLD FOR

THE NEXT TIME HE STOPS AT STATION.

DEAR ALL, FOLLOWING ARE THE MAIN HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 28 JUN

DÔ MENTING AS-PRESENTED BY-DEA/SEA (CEA-OCCUPIED-FOR-PART OF THE

TIME_WITH ANOTHER MEETING) AT THE 29 JUN EA STAFF MEETING:

- IT WAS ANNOUNCED THAT IF YOU HAVE CHILDREN AND

WOULD LIKE TO GET THEM REGISTERED IN THE AGENCY'S NURSERY, YOU

SHOULD APPLY AS SOON AS POSSIBLE FOR THE OPENINGS THAT WILL COME

VAVAILABLE THIS SEPT.

- ADDO MET 30 MEMBERS OF THE PRESS FOR A

BACKGROUNDER NEWS CONFERENCE.

CNN, ABC, AND ALL THE OTHER BIG

MEDIA REPS ATTENDED.

PER ADDO,

THE BRIEFINGS WENT QUITE WELL.

AT

SOMEONE MENTIONED THEY WOULD LIKE TO SAY SOMETHING

"OFF

THE RECORD," AND THIS CAUSED SOME COMPLAINTS FROM THE PRESS.

ON THE WHOLE, THIS NEW SYSTEM OF HAVING THE DO INTERFACE

WITH THE PRESS IS SAID TO HAVE GONE QUITE WELL.

THE DCI IS ALSO

PRÉPARING A BACKGROUND FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES" (NFI).

- THE ADDO MET WITH TOM

(THE SECRETARY OF

STATE'S CHIEF OF STAFF) TO DISCUSS ISSUES

OF CONCERN TO THE

SECRETARY.

THIS IS PART OF A NEW SYSTEM INTENDED TO HAVE THE DO

GET BRIEFINGS ON WHAT SPECIFIC MATTERS HIGH LEVEL CABINET MEMBERS

ARE INTERESTED.

- THE EXDIR IS STARTING A HUMAN RESOURCES OVERSIGHT

COUNSEL TO BE CHAIRED BY

THE COUNSEL WILL HOLD ITS

FIRST MEETING NEXT THURSDAY. THE_GROUP'S PURPOSE WILL BE TO

REVIEW -THE-AGENGY-S-PROCEDURES FOR HANDLING PERSONNEL MATTERS-

(TRAINING, PROMOTIONS, ETC.) EROM-CRADLE TO GRAVE,

I.E., EOD TO

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

MHENO

95-0906823

SECRET

SENSIND: BO RYBAT

RETIREMENT,

AND THE DIVERSITY ISSUE WILL BE ANOTHER MAJOR CONCERN

OF THE GROUP.

PAGE :

A NEW STRATEGIC BUDGET PLANNING GROUP IS BEING

CREATED. IT WILL

BE LED BY

PRESIDENT BUSH'S 27 JUN VISIT TO HQS WENT QUITE

WELL, IN THE DCI'S ESTIMATION. • THE DCI ADVISED

THAT THE BRIEFINGS

BY DO PERSONNEL WERE RIGHT ON THE MONEY AND VERY WELL RECEIVED,

ESPECIALLY THE CHINA BRIEFING BY ADCEA/CO.

- THE ADDO WILL ATTEND A COVERT ACTION HEARING AT

THE SSCI ON 14 JULY.

ON THAT SAME DAX, THE

PRESIDENT AND FIRST

LADY WILL VISIT THE AGENCY.

- GEORGE TENET HAS BEEN CONFIRMED AS THE DOCI AND

WILL ARRIVE ON MONDAY, 3 JULY.

ADMIRAL STUDEMAN WILL REMAIN WITH

THE AGENCY FOR A FEW MONTHS OVERLAP.

- A

-TASK-FORCE HAS-BEEN CREATED TO FULFITO

THE SAME FUNCTION AS THE

J.TE.

- AN EFFORT IS BEGINNING TO DECLASSIFY ALL

*DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE<JFK ASSASSINATION - PELEACES SOCIMANTS

WILL NOT INCLUDE ANY INFO DEALING WITH

RELATIONSHIPS OR ABOUT AGENT ASSETS.

HOWEVER, ALL ELSE WILL BE

RELEASED.

THE IG SEMI-ANNUALS ARE ABOUT TO BEGIN (NEI) .

- DDA AND DDO WILL BEGIN HAVING BREAKFAST MEETINGS

TO HOLD DISCUSSIONS ON "CONNECTIVITY" (E-MAIL AND OTHER

COMMUNICATION) BETWEEN HQS AND FIELD STATIONS.

-RE MEALS: EXECUTIVE DINING ROOM #2 WILL SOON

CLOSE, AND IT MAY BE RE-ESTABLISHED SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE HQS

BUILDING. DINING ROOM #1 WILL REMAIN FOR USE WITH

VISITORS.

- FRANK ROCCO (DDA) IS RETIRING. AS PART OF HIS

RETIREMENT PROCESS, HE WILL WORK FOR ABOUT TWO

MONTHS HELPING

ESTABLISH OF THE NATIONAL IMAGERY AGENCY AND THEN SPEND ABOUT ONE

MONTH IN THE TRANSITION PROGRAM.

FORMALLY BID ADIEU TO LA DIVISION OFFICER

RETIRING.

AT THE DO STATE MEET INHO IS ALSO

TOWARDS THE END OF THE EA STAFF MEETING, CEA JOINED THE

GROUP; AND, AT THE CONCLUSION OF DEA/SEA'S BRIEFING PRESENTED AN

EA PLAQUE TO IDEN REPORTS (AND SOMETIMES FRONT OFFICE) SECRETARY

FOR HER SEVERAL YEARS OF OUTSTANDING SERVICE TO THE DIVISION,

FIRST AS EA/J SECRETARY AND THEN IN REPORTS

SHE IS MOVING INTO

AN AGENCY JOB AT AN OUTLYING OFFICE MUCH CLOSER TO HER RESIDENCE.

4. FYI, THIS WAS YOURS TRULY'S LAST EA STAFF MEETING AS I

WILL BE ENTERING THE 90-DAY RETIREMENI TRANSITION PROGRAM,

SECRET

2

→--=

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO

95-0906823

-SENSIND: EO RYBAT

STARTING 3 JULY AND WITH AN ACTUAL RETIREMENT DATE SET FOR 30 SEP.

WINFELD WETL-BE-AC/EA/TIB UNTIL THE DIVISION PMAP SOON DECIDES ON

THE NEXT BRANCH CHIEF.

HE IS A LEADING CANDIDATE FOR THE

POSITION.

FINAL WORD SHOULD BE OUT TO YOU ALL BY EARLY JULY. IN

ANY EVENT, IT HAS BEEN VERY SATISFYING WORKING WITH YOU ALL OUT

THERE VICARIOUSLY (UNFORTUNATELY) FOR THE MOST PART THOUGH I DID

GET TO MEET AND RENEW ACQUAINTANCES WITH THE COS'S AND SOME OF THE

C/O'S DURING YOUR TRIPS BACK HERE.

THE WORK YOU ALL ARE DOING ISL

TERRIFIC AND BEING ACCOMPLISHED UNDER VERY DIFFICULT CONDITIONS.

ITI WAS GREAT BEING INVOLVED WITH YOUR EFFORTS AND I HOPE OUR

SUPPORT HAS BEEN UP TO YOUR EXPECTATIONS.

I AM SURE THAT THE VERY

SOLID OPERATIONS YOU ALREADY HAVE IN TRAIN WILL CONTINUE TO

SUCCEED; AND, BASED ON THE OBVIOUSLY HIGH MOTIVATION BY ALL OF YOU

OUT THERE, I

AM SURE YOU WILL ALL BE ACCOMPLISHING MANY OTHER GOOD

THINGS FOR THE ORGANIZATION AND THE COUNTRY.

I WISH YOU THE BEST

IN YOUR ENDEAVORS AND YOU CAN COUNT ON THE FACT THAT I WILL STILL

BE CHEERING FOR ALL OF YOU AND THE AGENCY FROM THE RETIREMENT SIDE

GOOD LUCK, EMERSON.

NONE. DECL OADR DRV

39874); CORD:

DC/EA/TIB

PAGE :

3

_C/EA/TIB

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

