# 104-10112-10142

## Page 1

104-10112-10142

Office Memorandum

TO

: File

FROM : Alien Affairs Officer

SUBJECT: CONTI Aguero, Luis Ernesto

HIS!

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

22 March 1961

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

-Sp.526

1. Mr. Roy Wade, State Visa Office, celled me this morning

concerning subject.

He stated we have had this fellow before or

another matter. He was a Castroite who defected and came to the

U. So last April under parole. Our Political Desk got I&NS to

unshackle him. His family is currently in Mexico. The subject

left the U.S. and returned sometime in June 1960, at which time

I&NS cancelled his visa, but we did ask finto do this. Ine

subject is currently in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as an applicant

for a nonimmigrant visa!*

2. Mr. Wade requested that we inform him whether or not

we have an interest in subject.

3. Mr. Pennington contacted Mr. Wade and requested that

the subject be elven a NIV to the States.

03

4o

Os/W-k stated that he bad checked 1n

VE and that they were interested In having the subject return

to the States. Requested that Wil send un a meno since subject

will probably have to be paroled upon entry by I&NS.

-

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

SP -526

₴ 3 MAR 1961

No HArriS No luston, Acting Admintetrator

Bureau of Security and Comeular Affairs

Department of State

Tiashington 25, D. C.

Attentions Mr. James NcDonnell

Deir Sir!

SUBJECT': In1á Ernesto CONVEI Aguero

This w1ll conflun oral request made recently by an

employee of this Agency to Mi. lade of your Department

for the lssuance of a nontmigrant visa to the subject..

at Buenos Alres, Argentin, so that he may obtais trane.....

portation to the United States.

Arrangements vill be made vità Imigration and lat-

urallantlon service to parole subject upon arrival

Tour cooperation in this matter 1e appreciated.

sincerely,

pr-

Shelfield Ihards

Director of Security

ce: Imigration and Naturalization Service

OS/AAS/JIM:es 22 Mar 61.

Vin

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED

TO AKYONE WITHOUT FRIDE PEMPISSION OF THE

CENTRAL INTELUGENOS ANENGI.

sales costa

SECHET

---

