# 104-10112-10432

## Page 1

104-10112-10432

TRAVEL ORDER

maj, Lucien Corein

A2RD. A 1

23 A37SI 39:6

OFFICE PHONE

MIX

3325

OFFICIAL STATION

5025.

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO,

to PE-73-50

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBOL

6-5725-55-634

GRADE AND SALARY

Major, 1S1

TITLE

Oa Officer

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Regulations.

ITINERARY

Pts effectire 21 Detober 195%.

To

ment origins order to thes

PURPOSE

Do 6h01

To store

SPECIAL PROVISIONS INCIDE AFPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

Sanjeet unthorieed 100 Ihi, ats freight

113-2

as ECS effective ET Detober 1955.

Fast ol origial crier reains in elfect.

AUTHORIZED PER DIEM

Marie per dier suchartzed la eccordeser

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

J OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

J THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

ADVANCE OF FUNDS IS AUTHORIZED.

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

MODE OF TRAVEL (SPECIFY)

ALLOWANCE FOR PRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

CERTIFICATION MY PROCESSING BRANCHI

Certified & True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as indicated.

(A)

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE GOVERNMENT

SIGNATURE

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECT

TO WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE

IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE

IS AUTHORIZED..

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE YEAR OF EMPLOYEE

TEMPORARY DUTY.

MAME AND ITTLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

GNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

FB/CFT

028-

1 OCT 55

OCT 51 WHICH MAY BE.

USED

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FiLE-B

TRAVEL ORDER

HeirN E CONtiAL

5025

OPTICE TRAVEL ORORE NO.

ALLOTMENT ACCOUNT SYMBOL

OFFICE PHONE LI

1325

OFFICIAL SpITE

GRADE AMOSALAR

Pal+=. 09A

TITL#

Intes a Et

You

450a

Ottises

are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses In accordance with

Agency Regulations.

ITINERART

Trovol sethrsissi

PURPOSE

SPECIAL FROVISIONE (INCLUDE APPROPRIATE JUSTIFICATION)

M28-470

I.elghts

COORDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

J OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

THEATER CLEARANCE (IF OBTAINABLE)

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorized.

TRAVEL, TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATING APPROXIMATELY

ALLOWANCE FOR FRIVATELY OWNED AUTOMOBILE AS FOLLOWS IF APPLICABLE

Certified a True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as Indicated.

(A) BEVEN CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER.

(B)

THE GOVERNMENT.

SEVEN CENTS PER MILE, AS BEING MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO

03

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL SYATION INDICATED I8 EFFECTED IN THE IBEFEST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION,

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO

BONAL EFFECTE, SUBJECT TO WEIGHT LIMITA, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONE LE BET UP IM FRIAGE AWAY JOUT MOUBEHOLD GOODS, PER-

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY. HOUSEHOLD GOODE, PERSONAL

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE, IS AUTHORIZED.

RETURN FROM

POST

OF

EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL

I9 AUTHORIZED.

DEPENDENTE TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE.

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITHIN ONE THAR OF EMPLOYER

TEMPORARY DUTY.

MAME ANO TITLE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL (TYPE)

105

Hated by HiDe 28 721 55

FORM NO.

I MAY 54

(DATE)

SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

33-27

BUPERSEORS PREVIOUE EDITIONS OF PORNS 83-N7, 99-18, SEE BAGA, 14-I DE-S07 AND UTCO WHICH MAY NOT BE USIB:-48)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

...•

.. ;

SS0427

UNVOUCHERED

Major Lucien E. CONEIN

Reassignment

URea

•Ops. Officer,

Major, USA

DDP/FE

Branch 4 - Indochina

Dos. Staff

- BFF-2078

29 Nov. 1919

19 July 1955

Area Ops. Officer BIT-2160

Major, USA

DDP/FE

Branch 4 - Indochina

H. P. GILBERT, FE Personnel Officer,

FFE/4/5 - 3325

I w

55-3725555-039

6-3725-55-039

Military

NO

20 JUL

Die vas

An at by 15:

...?

Chiel, Personed Sacurit Darde

SECRET

---

