# 104-10012-10035

## Page 1

104-10012-10035

EJ. UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

E/BC

4C 20 Hgs

TO: (Officer.designatien, room number, and

building)

C//RTA

Hausman

has Holmes

3057

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

# APR

EXTENSION i NO

1413

7220

DATE

3 APP 1979

UTILETS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

is whom.

Drem a line across column after each comment.)

This

is the ACTIONA NED

copy of a communication

received*

from

Prin

washington.

Another copya

in E/BC

ng anela

Any reply should

directed to E/BCufor

forwarding to

Processing by IP

be determined

by

to

Coordination with E/BC.

is required prior to any

dissemination of this d

information outside the DDO.

8

NB: Richard A. SPRAGUE, Chief

Counsel and Director of HSCA, saw

a copy of attached document.

See

his attached letter to Sergyj

CZORNONOH, 04 December 1976.

RBH

10.

11..

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

$10 USE PREVIOU

DITION

OP-187

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Our ref: GEN 1

Dear Art

30 March 1978

Please find attached correspondence

received from one Sergyj CZORNONOH who

claims that he provided information about

Lee Harvey OSWALD to the American Vice

Consul (presumably Tom Blackshear) in

Sofia, Bulgaria, in August 1963.

I have sent copies of these letters

to the FBI and to my Head Office[

Mr

Enc.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

S'ERGYS. CZORNONON

1106-1TH STREET

SACRAMENTO CALIFORNiA

95814

M. Walle

RETURN RECEIPT

REQUESTED

REGISTERED

ND.251254

10

STATE CHRO

TO BRiTiSH EMBASSY

3100 MASSACHUSET IS AVE, N.W.

WASHiNGTON, D.C;

201-289248

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SERGYS CZORNONOH

1106-11TH STREET,

SACRAMENTO, CALiFORNiA, 95814

TO BRiTiSH AMBASSADOR

MARCH: 15, 1978

BRITISH EMBASSY

3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, N.W.

WASHINGTON, D.GI

DEAR SiR.

¡ WROTE LETTER ON FEBRUARY 15, 1978

TO MR. JAMES CALLAGHAN PRiME MINISTER

¡ ENCLOSED REGISTERED MAIL NO. 251067.

ON JULY 18, 1963 ; WAS IN LONDON ENGLAND

IT THE AIRPORT. iMMiGRATiON OFFiCER NO. 175

AND POLiCE OFFiCER iNTERROGATED ME, HE

ASKED

ME WHAT THE EMBASSY OF UeS,S,R,SAY

WHAT DID yoU HEARD IN ViENNA; AUSTRiA

¡SAiD i HAVE HEARD THAT ONE AMERiCAN

DEFECTOR (MR LEE MARVEN OSWALS TOTESS

IND HE RETURNED TO UNITED

AMERICA THIS MAN HE PREPARiNG TO KILI

TO ASSASSiNATE PRESiDENT JOHN F KENNEDY

MR. SMiTH

POLICE. OFFICER ASKED ME

DO YOU KNOW HIS NAME

HIS NAME

START ON "O

HiS NAME

WAS PUBLiSHED

ONE TiME iN NEWS PApER iN WASHiNGTON

PoST.

MR,

'EASY"

SMITH POLICE OFFICER SAID

FiND.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

i DO SEARCHING

FOR THIS FiLE IN BRITISH

iMMiGRATION,

BRiTISH iNTELLiGENCE AND PRTI

HELMIGRATIONS TASENTATO BAY YUA

21S, JENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON IN LIA

GENCE I ENCLOSE HiS COpy LETTER Toy.

L, BI AGENTS SOME OF THE MAIL IDEA

MY iNCOmiNG MAiL iS CONTROL BY ISS

GET

NOT FORWARD TO ME FiBI, SuPRAG

my INFORMATiON AND TORTURE ME S

RESPECTFULLY

bruc

12%S, PASSPORT N0,D0.27000

sergyj (zornin

---

## Page 6

13-00000 •

1804

copy. 10

BRiTISH AMBASSHOOR

Sergyj Czornonoh

:1106 • 11th Street

Sacramento, California 95814

To Russian Ambassador

Embassy of U.S-S.R

1125 - 16th Street

Washington, Do Go:

Dear Sir:

This is retyped letter from hand written

Mr. Wasilev Consul gave me order to transmit this Information to U. S. Government,

on August 9, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria. "Mro Wasilev, Consul of Embassy of USeS•Re

zave me this infomation about Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald on August 14, 1963- Mrs.

Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald 10 assassin. He will kill President Kennedy.

On August 15, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the airport in embassy car, I told to

Mr. Blackshire, American Vice Consul, that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald 18 assissin.

He has a weapon or has ordered one.

Mr. Blackshire said It seeme like he will

kill someone®

I said that Mr. Lee H. Oswald 1e preparing to kill President

of the United States, John F. Kennedy. Mr. Blackshire said where will it happen.

• I said they (right wing) will invite President, criticize him in the newspaper,....

then kill him.

Mr. Blackshire told me he will give the telegran to Department

of State and he gave me the address where to report.

At 9 some on August 19, 1963 in Washington, D. Co, I went to see (Mr. Kippingan).

Director of Special Counselor Service Department of State at 1901 Pennsylvania

Avenue-1lth floor. I told the Director that I have Information about President

Kennedy• The Director said do not mention name of President Kennedy, only

respond to the questions. The Director said tell us what will happen to Mr.

Lee Harvey Oswald then.

I said Mr. Lee H. Oswald will be killed after kill

Kennedy®

I said I will take the truth drug to tell the truth. Director tell

us who else get killed in this country. I said as I heard, that Di. Martin

Luther King, Ja. will be killed. Who will kill Dr. King, Jr. Negro leader?

I said a man who lo in prison at this time.

(MIo James Earl Ray was in prison

at that time.) Director asked where assassination will happen. I said in Dallas,

Texas. Director said if someone gave thie Information here I would expel the

Director did call on F.B.Io agents after F.B.I, use anesthesia gas to

freeze me to drub me to keep amnesia.

I told Director Departnent of State that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald have a weapon.

Go see himo.

Director told me'you too can havé weapon»-8 what if Oswald got

weapon•

Sincerely,

Sergyj Gornonoh

SergyJ

BOrROnOl

U.S. Passport 40027000

U.S House of Representatives

Select Committee on Assassinations told me to write letter to Embassy in early 1977.

fergyj (зornon'"

3/15/78

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Sergyj Czornonoh

Regis Hotel

1106 11th Street

Sacramento, CA 95814

CITY MANAGERS

ABOUT HUMAN RiGITTS

BRiTiSH EMBASSY

February 6, 1978

Mr. John M. Price

District Attorney

Sacramento, California

Dear Me. Price:

This is a retyped letter.

I visited Mr. Ferry :, Deputy District

Attorney, on August 16, 1977;

I told in the office

that FoB-I. agente and

Secret Service use police department to harasa me. Police department do

supply pencil of anesthesia gas to the manager of the building I live. The

manager do or use certain people, to freeze me by anesthesia gas - then push

drugs, poison in my mouth to torture me - to take my aleep away - or bleed

by rectal and they use many other chemicals to brainwash'me to use me in

political assassination which I refused On January 20, 1976 in Sacramento on

8th and I Streets, man cane to me from police or post office, U.S. Department

of Justice and freeze me by gas and told me to take gun, pistol and we will

tell you where to go to shoot - to kill - Mr. Sargent Shriver. I refused.

Manager, Mro Sisel, of Marshall Hotel, call on the man to tell me thie

on

the street.

In February 1976, police intelligence told me that assassination

will not happen here..

How about to move to Maryland state.

In this letter I ask you to get report from DI. Frederick S. Baker, M.D:

- colon and rectal surgery on January 31, 1978. His phone - 452-4095.

I. do

bleed today very much and I am weak, In this letter I ask you to give re

strain order or respond to me"what could be done.. The right wing in America

made record to use me in assassination. I refuse. I am human and I like to

be treated as human. Police put frame up on me - just to take advantages on

me. Police use lie, police use mental case to take advantages on me and tell

me that right wing do use such people like me. To prove I enclose copy mid-

night June 14, 1976.

Also I enclose copy letter I sent to Med Ted Sheedy,

Supervisor, on January 26, 1978 and copy of his reply to me.

Please respond to me. Thank you.

Very truly you

Lergy; Szornonsh

Sergyj. Czornonoh

Mro Sargent Shriver wee run for President in 1976.

Sergys

догномій

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Legal Center

For The Disabled

1722 J STREET, SUITE 19 • SACRAMENTO, CA 95814

Telephone: 446-4851

March 2, 1978

Sergyi Czornonoh

1106

I1th Street

Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear Mr. Czornonoh:

This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter regarding

difficulties you have encountered with the police and the

In the event that there is legal action taken by the police

or the FBI to institutionalize you this office will provide

you with legal

representation:

If

you have any further legal problems please contact this

office.

Sincerely,

Resue Kay

LESLIE KAY

Paralegal

CATHERINE HUGHES

Staff Attorney

LK: ab

REGISTERED NO: 25(0 67.

Special

Delivery:

Return

Meg. Fee

Handling $

Recaipt

Restricted

Delivery

I AIRMAIL:

STATE

CAPriOL

P5x/4

---

