# 104-10185-10103

## Page 1

104-10185-10103

3

SECRET

NO FOR T DIESEM

SUNICT

Cuba "

APORT NO.

CS CI-310)00711-65

June Francisco LLACOSTERA GarciaDATE DISTi

ta. 8 Septeniber 1964

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

Aro.

PLACE 2

SOURCES

1064

washlagton, DC.

ANT 10E1

FIELD REPORT-NO

1A1S 1S LSEVABUSTED INFOENATIONE

ARE SERINTIVE:

'AFRiCAL-OF CONTENT IS PINTATIVE

Aformiar Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubar Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Fendcüarters Comments.

The following report is one of a series

containing personality information provided by the source and

includes supplemental information from the recurds of this Agency.

i is réquested that the addressees tase no action on any of the

dividuals mentioned in the porsorality reports witheut first chessins

with this gency.

Source was shown a photograph of Jose Francisco LLAGOSTERA

Carcia and identitico him as a Cuban Diplomat stationed in Mexico.

shough source does not know LLaGosteR, persorally, he recalls

Laur Múnuel VEGA made mention of hind , ; ,

-cadquarters Comments

1, Is a roport mated la January 1963, & groug of Cuban emigres trainea

1o the technicues of information collection and who have provided useful

réporis for two years, reported on personnel at the Cuban Embassy i:

•lexico City. Included in this repori was the name of one Jose LLACOSTERA

(maloonyr:ic unsnown) who was described as a contracted employce who

seemed to have a mission (sic), but appeared to be a gardner.

believed that the gardners are G-% types, because so many gardners are

2.

A usunily reliable source in a report dared 1á June 1963, said that

JOSE LLAGOSTERA is leturning to Cuba within a few days on leave. He ...

is dissatisfied with the present situation in Mexico.

STATE

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEM

1 62nt

NAVY

AIR

REP CINCLINT

CINCSO ÷ JANS

1753

i OCR

FBI 2

10955

CI/IIA

1T3

LX-105

Sincel

I, DEA

3

2

RID/ANT

6 2 363, (1). VE 1 (2), CI 4,

RID 1

LIAISON

CSCI-≤10 00712-61

COOL OINATINE FI

Midia: Lolema

---

## Page 2

50:9 0200r dared 22 June 196S:

class a list of Cuber Delore personnel

in Mexico. Francisco Jose LinGestORa Carua, TiCkero

"Pañcho;

opcared on the list with the loden.

biograghta antoneator:

=10.119

He was

mad massgort number E/oe des.

ais laid,

and GONZALEZ

Piloto, Dassport 2/62/410, uranis sor Jose L. LLACOSTERd

Gonzoa, Dassport number E/03/410, arrived in Mexico on

L4 Sectomber 1962.

The LLAGOSTERd's resided inthe Culan Embassy,

and floor, Mexico, D. F.

4. A source do paragraph 1 abore (ancer Headguaaters Comments), ina

report dared 15 August 1963, stated mar he hud talied to base LLACOSTERA

Carcis, wo had recently arrived in Mesics LLtGosTaRdsaidhis wue,

Martarela GONZALEZ Piloto, iras resicing at Jovollar 159, Apärtment 3,

Sabana. "Ze also said that he had sandicipated in the interrogation of the

Playa Giron prisoners. LINGOsTaRd indicated thet his curter. salary was:

only S150. 00a month and said that he resided at the Cuban Embassy. His

name not mentioned, has residesed in the United Sies for the

past cighteen years and in 1054 had obtained a United States residence

permit for LLiCOSTERA, Source describad LLAGOSTSRA as having

been born abeut 1917, being five fee: sis laches in height, 155 pounds

and having a dari complexion, blacs sair, amoustache, and a pointed

rose.

5. A usually reliable source was told by rancisco Jose LLiGOSTERA,

an erloyce of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, that Cubara

sirlines is accouting no other cargo for shigent to Habana but food,

medicine, aid clothing. This was reported on 12 October 1908.

In a roport dated 6 August 195÷, from a Cuban exile with excellent

contairs in the antillean Marine Supping Corporation, it was stated

that jose Francisco LLAGOSTER À Circia is a suspected Cuban

Intelligence staffer attached to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

As 0: Mach 196* source believed tha: LLGOSTER. was still

employed at the Embassy. Source has KroWn LL AGOSTERA do. ten

years.

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

