# 104-10111-10040

## Page 1

104-10111-10040

SUBJECT:

: Mia. David L. Chrlat

i e.

1.

On 15 September 1960, 3 ataff employees (David Christ, Thornton

Anderson and Walter Szuminakl) were arrested by the Cuban G-2 while in-

stalling audio surveillance equipment against the New China Newa Agency

in Havana, About the same time an Agency case officer; Robert Neet, and

a stay-behind agent and his wife, Me. and Mrs.

were picked

up. All six were jailed.

Subsequently. Mrs.

land Neet were released

and deported.

:: 06:

2. The 3 staff employees were operating under allas identities which

have stood up to date (Daniel Carswell, Eustace Danbrunt, Edmund Taransky).

The staff employees and the stay-behind agent were tried on 17 December

1960. On 10 January 1961, the staff employees were sentenced to 10 years

in jail, and the stay-behind agent was ordered deported. The deportation

took place shortly thereafter:

3. Following the arrest, the 3 Agency employees were firat detained

at the G-? headquarters in Havana and shortly thereafter were moved to

the LaCabana prison. It was possible to keep them supplied with food, ne-

cessities, radios, reading material, ete. On 23 January in spite of the

immediate appeal of the sentence filed by their lawyer, the 3 men were

moved to the Isle of Pines where living and sanitary conditiona are in-

tolerable.. Prisoners are required to perform hard manual labor, and

there la an insutficiency of food..

4. With the asslotance of Mr. Hugh Kessler, a U.S. consular 0f-

ficial, close contact was kept with the 3 men until diplomatic relations

with Cuba were severed. Through a Washington attorney, James R.

Murphy, arrangementa were made with a Cuban lawyer, Dr. Fernando

Colomar, to represent the 3 men in court. Colomar was not told of

any Agency interest in the operation. Through the jolnt services of

Mesars. Kessler and Colomar, the 3 men were supplied with pocket

money, food, clothing, toilet articles, etc. After diplomatic relationg

were severed, Colomar continued to visit the men until they were trans

ferred to the Isle of Pines.

2

---

## Page 2

The 3 men have been held ln the Modelo Prison, Nueva Gerona.

Isle of Pines since January 1961. We have been successful in getting money

and supplies to them through the Washlagton Attorney to the Swiss Embassy

in Havana. .1

They have malatalned contact by lettere..

Their last corres

pondence was written on 17/18 October 1962. They are belleved to be in

reasonably good bealth. The Swiss are attempting to verify a report that

3 Americans were transferred to the Boniato Prison in early November 1962.

6. It has been necessary in this case to conceal Government interest

In the 3 prisoners in order to avoid their execution and/or full debriefing on

the sensitive Information they possess.

7. The Washington Attorney has obtained associate counsel in Mexico

The Chicago Attorney, who la unwitting of

Government ate Constante a Kang At rate a vana la May Sane

1962 and as of Noyember 22, 1962 secelved word that an soon as possible

he will be lavited back to Cuba to negotiate with Fidel Castro on this case.

Kangles expects the releage of the 3 men not later than the firat week in

January 1963-

3. Other operational efforte to secure the release of the men are in

progreas. We have avolded keeping Mrs. Christ fully briefed on the spe-

cliles of the efforts being made, as she tends to be critical of the Agency

and of the fact that she le unaware of any significant interest in the case in •

the Executive Branch of the Government. She han prevlously seen Mesara.

Allen Dulles, General Cabell, General Maxwell Taylor, and General Carter.

Mi. James Donoval, who has appeared in connection with negotia-

tions for the Playa Giron prisoners, has been made aware of the 22 Ameri

cans held in Cuba and of the Agency Interest in 3 of those prisoners.

Ho

has not been told their true names.

10. David Christ's wife, Wilms, and their als children live in the

Washington area where they have been frequently visited by members of

the Agency. She has explained to neighbors that her husband in away on a

long TDY for the Government which has become a permanent assignment

and that in line with the new regulations on overseas travel of dependents,

she has not been allowed to follow him.. Wilma Christ has been paid her

husband's accumulated per diem and salary.

11. David Christ is 45 years old (his birthday was 20 January). He

2

---

## Page 3

is a graduate of Pennsylvania State College with a degree of B.S. In Electrical

Engineering. He worked before the war for the Atlas Powder Company and

tructed at Pennsylvania State College wat! 1930 wheng e Wa, geney.

12. Wilma Christ is 42 years old. There are 6 children in the family;

Thomas, age 18

Susan, age 9

Elaine, age 16

Stuart, age 5

Linda, age 12

Roger, ago 3

The 2 older children have been briefed on the situation and are aware of their

father'a predicament.

---

