# 104-10216-10102

## Page 1

104-10216-10102

CONFIDENTIAL

F-16-02-97

20 My 1972

NEHDRASDON FOS

AFLI

Fia!

Chies, Hashington Pold Office

ler. Btunts

note, boaste contact Service

0291

Daforal DCS Roguirements for Irving Davidion

д. 10 р

lo Jeen Claude has been deacribed by sons as shy or as one who

ull not be williag to act the passive role for long. He la sot a man

to be pushed around, and he la urlikely to be anyone's puppets salle

others say he la an idolt, not overly intelligent, a playboy.

aource inous his vell, five lie evalustion, ilease, Acecreing to the

kashleston Post, of 10 My, purs are that Jean-Claude bas sled Halti

Does source have any inforantion!

2a How does the nource feel about Duvaller"s ability to retain

the presidency? To anner the above question, detalle and logle must

be given.

Who 1e of are bie chies advisers?

W12l he accept gulcance

Iron hia adriers? WIll Duvaller be a one son decision mker?

and the fallord gasset on the prenest relat loudly botween the freiant.

Its other

mete Dantoe Dostnique (bla slater)

Man Dontnique (brother-in-law)

Cal Cunde Raymond (Cated of Start)

®e

Tunes Ramin (Chief of Polies of Port m-Prince)

So - Ine Durts (Bead of Ion Ion Ibcoutes)

Wl1 Cambrone be the strongan in be sev governt!

If not, she vill bel

then Jute de of prestion 1. 1

•. the sourco anavers mut be bor

CONFIDENTIAL

$h3d 1

Erstates gen

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL®

SUBJECT &

Duformal DOS Requiremento for Irving Davideon

to that le the attitude of the OCH tovard the posalbility

of an Irrasion from outside the country? 01 trouble fros withis the

Or why not 10 detall.

rous real rotten to at era teen or ta it the ea

c, vas this a hoax or la it the wa

of the no goverment!

• How succenaril will the new Minister of Infersation Dr

g1t8 Cleas be in Belling the new trage of Lastl

JANRE R. MURPHY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

