# 104-10107-10086

## Page 1

104-10107-10086

SEBRET

EYES ONLY

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

30 January 1969

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT

03

1. Mr. Papich communicated by telephone at 10:00 a.m.:

The New York office of the FBI has learned

informally from an Assistant Distilet Attorney

(unidentified) on Hogan's staff that the New York

District Attorney has received a complaint

against Subject for absconding with funda received

from negligence cases. The allegation is that

Subject converted the settlemente to his own see,

did not pay them-less his own fees- to the clients

concerned. The complainant or complainanta and

the lawyer or spokesman for them are not identified.

It is added, however, that whoever made the com-

plaint to the New York District Attorney aleo

specified that there was reason to believe that

Subject was connected with a U,S. Agency. If this

was so, it was further indicated, complainants

would be willing to discuss the situation.

2. These are all of the details that Sam han received over the

telephone from New York. I asked him specifically for the identification.-

if the FBI could make it--of the attorney of attorneys who made the

complaint to the New York Diatrict Attorney's office.

3. There was nothing in this communication to relate Subject's

case with the Itkin matter. However, it is clear that the allegation made

against Subject is identical with a large number that have been of interest

to the New York District Attorney in connection with Itkin.

SHEL

EYES ONLY

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

---

