# 104-10095-10027

## Page 1

104-10095-10027

)

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

ATTENTION:

Mr. Walter Elder

VIA:

SA/DDO (John Waller)

SUBJECT:.

" * AUG 1375

REFERENCE:

Documentation of Castro Assassination Plots

Review Staff 75/1696

1. Per referent request, we have conducted a revicw of our

riles on incidents and individuals mentioned in the report given

by Fidel Castro to Senator McGovern.

This memorandum contains

the results of our traces on the alleged assassination plots and

the Cuban individuals mentioned in the report. It must be borne

in mind that our tiles are keyed primarily to names of individuals

and not by incidents or plots,

thoreby making the retrieval process

difficult.

No project file bearing specifically on the subject of

assassination has

been located. Nonetheless, what follows is keyer

chronological order of the plots as described in Castro's

ties CIA

A. Mid 1960. Nothing has been located in records which

•to this incident.

(1) Armando CUBRIA Ramos. According to CIA traces,

CUBRIA was a long-time sabotage expert and member of Castro's 26th

of July Movement until 1960, when he apparently turned on Castro.

He was arrested in 1960 for

organizing underground activity

against the Castro regine and was

sentenced to 30 years imprison-

ment for conspiracy.

is no record of CIA contact with CUBRIA.

(2) Mario TAULER Sague.

There is no record of CIA contact with him.

That tune wood at

He was arrested on 12 July

1960 in Havana where he was caught unloading arms clandestinely

introduced into Cuba.

E2, IMPDET

CL. BY:

059115

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEgRET

B. March 1961.

A number of the Cubans mentioned in

the incident vero indeed employed by this Agency in tho fields

of intelligence collection and paramilitary activities against

There is nothing in the files reviewed to substantiate

that their mission was

to assassinate Castro.

Some of those

mentioned were in fact involved in clandestine infiltration

into Cuba for the purposes of gathering intelligonce and

carrying out paramilitary activities in a March 1961 mission.

(1) Humberto SORI Marin.

There is a 201 file

on the individual. In November 1960

SORI, a disaffocted Cuban

government employee, contacted a cuban working on our bohalt

and advised him of his desire to work against the Castro

govornmont.

arrest by the Cuban Government but escaped with the assistanco

of unidontified friends on 21 December 1960. lic was exfiltrated

co the Miami ares, without ClA involvement,

on 19 February 1961.

¡e was met by a ClA case officer on 2 March 1951 and debriefed

on his activities in Cuba. A Provisional Operational Approval

(PON) was requested for his use as

an intelligence source and

subsequently granted in March 1961. He was met again by a

CIA case officer on 5 March 1961.

Ho returned to Cuba

clandestinely on or about 11 March 1961 without CIA assistance.

Shortly after his return to Cuba he was arrested and taken to

La Cabana Prison on 11 April 1961. On 20 April 1961 he was

executed by the Cuban militia.

(2) Rogelio GONZALEZ Corcho.

There is a 201

file on the individual.

Our files indicate that he was

Secretary General of the Revolutionary Recuperation Movement

(MRR) in May 1960.

He was granted a POA for contact and

assessnont on 1 July 1960.

In August 1960 he was met by a

CIA case officer in the Nashington area to be debriefed. He

was subsequently trained by CIA in radio communications and

paramilitary operations. He was infiltrated into Cuba on

is premier vice part of an explivery operation

March 1961

he was instructed to stoy up paramilitary operations in Northern

Cuba.

He was captured on or about 19 March 1961 and was executed

20 April 1961 by Cuban militiamen at La Cabana Prison.

(3) Manuel Lorenzo PUIG Miyar.

There is a 201

filo on the individual. le was granted a lOA for use in

paramilitary operations on 29 November 1960.

On or about

20 March 1961 he was captured and executed on 18 April 1901.

SyCHET

---

## Page 3

(4) Nemesio RODRIGUEZ Navarette.

Our only

record of subject indicates that he was involved in para-

military activities for CIA.

(5) Gaspar Dominguez TRUEBA Varona.

There is

a 201 file on the individual.

He was granted a POA 15 March

1961 for use as a legal traveler to Cuba and support agent

in intelligence collection and

techniques.

together with 600 other

1961 at La Cabana Prison.

(6) Eufemio Jose FERNANDEZ Ortega. There is a

201 file on the individual.

There is no known

CIA involvement

with subject. A one-time Chief of the Cuban National Secret

Police, he was arrested on trumped-up charges in April 1901.

He was

executed on 20 April 1961 together with lumberto SORI

Marin and others.

(7) Rafael DIAZ Hanscom.

There is a 201 file

• on the individual. A POA was granted 25 January 1961 for

use in intelligence collection and paramilitary operations.

He received intelligence and paramilitary training.

He was

involved in the March 1961 CIA paramilitary operation and

was captured by the Cubans. He was executed on 20 April 1961.

(8) Gabriel RIANO Zequeiro.

One Gabriel RIANO

appeared on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison as of

May 1971. There is no known Agency connection with RIANO.

(9) We have no identifiable information or

indication of CIA involvement with Dionisio ACOSTA Hernandez;

Oreste FRIAS Roque;s Eduardo LEMUS Perez; Narciso PERALTA Soto;

or Pedro de CESPEDE Company.

C. June 1961. Nothing has been located in records

which ties CIA to this incident.

(1) Juan BASIGALUPE Hornedo.

identifiable

information on this individual.

We have no pertinent

(2) Guillermo COULA (aka CAULA) Ferrer.

We have

no pertinent

idontifiable information on this individual.

(3) lliginio MENENDEZ Beltran.

His name appeared

on a list of prisoners in Guanajay Prison in Pinar del

Rio,

Cuba.

There is no indication he had any relationship with

CIA.

3

---

## Page 4

D.

July 1961. Some of the individuals mentioned

in the report were indeed employed by this Agency in para

military activities directed against Cuba.

There is no

confirmation in the records reviewed that their mission

assassination of Castro.

There is a 201

file on this individual. He was granted a POA 30 January 1961

tor support of paramilitary operations against Cuba.

clandestinely infiltrated into Cuba

in a CIA

3 March 1961.

lle was arrested on or about 9 March 1961. As

of November 1972 he was believed to be held prisoner in Cuba.

(2) Adolfo MENDOZA. He is probably identifiable

with Adolfo CONZALEZ Mendoza.

There is a 201 file on the

individual.

An Operational Approval (OA) was grantod for his

use in paramilitary operations against Cuba.

He worked as a

radio operator for infiltration teams.

He left Cuba via the

Chilean

Embassy and traveled Mexico/Panama/Chile.

He later

left Chile for Honduras. There has been no contact with him

since 1962.

(3)

There is a 201

file on the individual. A POA was granted 30 January 1961

for use in supporting paramilitary operations.

He was

infiltrated into Cuba in a CIA opcration on 3 March 1961.

He was arrestod on or about 9 May 1961,

(4)

There is a

201 file on the individual. He was working for CIA at the

time of his arrest on 9 August 1961.

First recruited in

1960, a POA was granted on 5 January 1961 for use in para-

military operations.

There is no infornation contained in

the files reviewed which indicate he was involved in assassi-

nation attempts.

There is a 201 file on

the individual.

He was rocruited

1960 for use in intelligenco

gathering. In

September 1960 he was

trained by CIA in paramilitary

operations and infiltrated into Cuba on 29 September 1960, when

he began organizing resistance groups at CIA direction.

returned to the U.S. in February 1961 for debriefing and

returned to Cuba in May 1961. In July 1961 he reported that

sabotage operations were being planned for 26 July 1901.

Cuban refugee confirmed his arrest in July 1961.

information in the files reviewed to indicate that he was

directed to attempt to assassinate Castro.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

(6) We have no identifiable information or

record of contact with Jose A. ROSABAL Rosabal, Emilio

QUINTANA Gonzalez, Rafael RIQUENES Maceo,

or Jose A. GARCIA

Diaz.

E. July 1901. Although ClA had operational

relationships with various individuals mentioned

in the

report, over a long period of, time and relating to a variety

ot operations.

there is nothing in

files roviewed to indicate

that CIA was involved in

the described incident.

There is

also nothing in files

reviewed to indicate that

any of the

individuals mentioned

were directed by CIA to assassinate

Castro.

(1) Tony VARONA. There is a 201 file on the

individual.

A POA was requested in August 1957 as a source

of information on anti-government activities in Cuba and

later amended for use in political action activities.

He

and organizations he represented were provided with material

and financial assistance in promoting anti-castro activitios

in Cuba until approximately 1962. There is no indication in

= his file that he attempted to assassinate Castro or sought

CIA assistance for this purpose.

(2) Manuel RAY Rivero. There is a 201 file

A POA was granted for use as a political

action agent on 25 October 1960. CIA provided support to a

variety of autonomous anti-Castro groups, including the one

represented by RAY.

subject reportedly developed

a plan to assassinate Castro.

In July 1 This plot was not at CiA direction

and no assistance was provided for it. CIA's relationship with

subject ended in 1967.

(3) Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango. There is a 201

file on the individual.

Subject was first contacted in

September 1948 and used sporadically as a casual informant

on Cuban internal politics.

A POA was

granted on 12 August

1959 for use in political action activities.

He was debriefed

occasionally by CIA but after

1960 he was not used operationally.

(4) Francisco CHANLS Armas.

One Francisco

CHANES is listed as an official of the Cuban Secret Revolu-

tionary Service (SSR)

in May 1960.

The name of one Francisco

CHANES appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison

as of Nay 1971.

There

is no record of any CIA contact or

operational relationship with subject.

Missingine

5

S20K

---

## Page 6

(5) Alfredo Ruperto FERNANDEZ Gamez.

subject

travoled to Mexico, Brazil, and the U.S. in approximately

1960 as a Cuban agent with the mission of penetrating anti-

Castro organizations.

There is no record of any CIA contact

with or operational relationship with subjoct.

(0) Florentino FERNANDEZ Rodriguez.

His name

appears on a list of prisonors hold in Guanajay Prison as

of May 1971.

(7) Segundo GONZALEZ Gonzalez. He is listed as

an agent of the Cuban Revolutionary Secret Service and special

agont to investigato anti-Gastro activitios in Marianao, Cuba

in 1959-1960.

There is no rocord of any CIA contact with or

operational relationship with subjoct.

(B) We have no identifiable information or any

indication of CIA contact with Roberto COSCUYUFLA Valcarcel,

Orlando ULACIA Valdes,

Jose AcevA Quintana,

Pedro ASCARATE Carbonell, Angel del TORO Porez, Aurello HERNANDEZ

Maraol, Jorge VAZQUEZ Fernandez, or Nario CHANES de Armas.

13 September 1961.

There is nothing in the files

reviewed to link CIA with this incident.

One of those mentioned

in the report was once considered for use in paramilitary

operations but was not actually used in any operation.

(1) Antonio J. FERNANDEZ Rodriguez.

There is a

201 file on the

individual. A POA was requested for subject's

use in paranilitary operations on 21 September 1960. The

request later cancolled and subject was not ultinately usod

in any capacity.

(2) There is no infornation available on Juan

JoSe MARTORE Silva, Manuel BARRERA Lopez, or Acolio LLERENA

Morales.

October 1261. There is nothing in the records

reviewed to indicate that

CIA was

involved in this

incident.

(1) Bernardo PARADELA Ybarroche.

Dur files

indicate that subject's name appeared on a list of Cuban

political prisoners in carly 1967 who were

to be released

through efforts of the Mexican Reú Cross.

(2) Raul FERNANDEZ Trevejo.

Subject's name

appears on a list of prisoners hold in Cuba at Guanajay

Prison in May 1971.

6

---

## Page 7

(3) Bernardo IGLESIA Winter. According to a

report dated 10 July 1962, a Enu IGLESIA, possibly identifiable

with subject, was active in anti-Castro organizations.

(4) Ruberto GONZALEZ Gonzalez. One Rupert

GONZALEZ, possibly identifiable with subject,

was sentenced

to 20 years in prison for anti-Castro activities in Cuba.

Ho was

arrested December 1963.,

H.

Early 1962.

Although CIA had an operational

relationship with one of the principals mentioned in the

report, there is nothing in the files reviewed to indicate

that he was directed by CIA to assassinate Castrc.

(1) Julio HERNANDEZ Rojo. There is a 201 file

on the individual. Subject worked in the Directorio

Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) against the Castro government

inside Cuba.

We had

our first contact with him in September

1961 in the U.S. and provided him with some material assistance

for paramilitary operations. His POA for use in paramilitary

activities was

--: • 1962.

The date of his return to Cuba has not been established.

the late bantes

granted 3 January 1962 and cancelled & November

He was arrested in Cuba in ayproximately October 1962 and

subsequently sentenced to 30 years imprisonment.

(2) Raul CAY Hernandez and Raul CAY Gispert.

Our only trace is on one Raul CAY, indicating that in December

1963 he was suspected of being an

agent of the Cuban internal

security service.

(3) Humberto GOMEZ Pena. As of September 1962

subject was reportedly organizing Cuban resistance groups

among Masons inside Cuba.

(4) Jose Luis CUERVO Calvo. In 1962 subject

who renor it

was reported to be grand master of the Masonic Lodge in Cuba

and leader of anti-Castro Masons. He was arrested by the

Cubans on 21 September 1962.

I. 13 March 1963.

There is no indication in files

reviewed

to indicate

that CIA was involved in this incident.

We had sporadic contact with only one of the subjects mentioned

Although we had several contacts with him,

he was not under our direction and our lnst contact occurred

two years prior to the alleged incident.

7

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SEPTE

(1) Iliginio DIAZ Ane.

There is a 201 file on

the individual.

The CIA was in sporadic contact with subject

from approximately March 1960 until mid 1961.

He participated

in the Bay of Pigs invasion.

The Agency had

no contact with

him after mid 1961.

(2) We found no identifiable information on

Samuel CARABALLO Moreno, Ricardo OLMEDO Moreno, Luis David

RODRIGUEZ Gonzalez,

Jose

• Antonio LOPEZ Rodriguez, or Juan

Lucio MORALES SOSa,

7 April 1963.

There is nothing in records

reviewed to indicate that CIA was involved in this incident.

(1) We have no identifiable information on or

any indication that we ever had contact with Enrique RODRIGUEZ

Valdez, Ricardo LOPEZ Cabrera, Jorge Carlos ESPINOSA Escarles,

or Onorio TORRES Perdomo.

K. 26 July 1963. A review of files indicates no

CIA involvement in this incident or record of any CIA contact

with the principals mentioned in the report.

(1) Rene SIGLER-SANCHEZ Evias.

The name of one

Rene SIGLER appears on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay

Prison, Cuba as of May 1971.

(2) Jesus MONTES de Oca Cruz.

le is listed in

1953 as a Communist Party member in Cuba anu his name appears

on a list of prisoners held in Guanajay Prison as of May 1971.

(3) We have no identifiable information on

Eliecer RODRIGUEZ Suarez, Ibrahim MACHIN Hernandez or Oscar

SIBILIA Soria.

28 September 1963. Nothing has been located in

records which ties CIA directly to this incident.

(1) We have no identifiable information on

record of operational interest in Orlando Martiniano de la

CRUZ Sanchez, Juan Israel CAZANAS Leon, Jesus Placido RODRIGUEZ

Mosquera, Luis Beltran Federico HERNANDEZ Gonzalez.

(2) Pierre Juan DIEL de Ure.

There is a 201

file on the individual.

DIEZ is identified in our files as

a French-born naturalized Cuban citizen.

His file indicates

that he was arrested by the Cuban G-2 on 17 October 1963.

There is no record of any operational interest in him.

8

---

## Page 9

(3) Francisco BLANCO de los Cuetos.

Our only

trace indicates

that Francisco BLANCO was arrested by the

Cuban G-2 after having been denounced by Pierre Juan DIEZ

de Ure afier his arrest, noted above.

M.

March 1964. CIA had an operational relationship

with both of the persons mentioned in the report at the time

of the incident.

In 1963 and 1964 both persons made proposals

to CIA to assassinate Castro but in each instance they were

told that CIA and the USG did not condone such attempts and

no commitments were made.

(1) Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar.

There is a 201

file on the individual. A POA was requested on subject for

use as

an operational support asset in an intelligence

gathering net inside Cuba.

We did not deal with him directly

but communicated through third parties. In early March 1964

subject proposed

an operation to his contact to assassinate

Castro and asked

for pistols, a submachine gun equipped with

a silencer,

several .30 caliber machine guns,

and some dynamite.

On ? March

1964 CIA advised his contact to tell subject that

CIA would not holp him in this effort.

According to CIA

records,

subject and his accomplice were arrested in June or

July 1965 and

sentenced to 30 years confinement.

(2) 4

There is a 201

file on the individual. He was recruited in December 1963

to be a source of intelligence within Cuba. At the time of

his recruitment he told CIA of his plans to assassinate

Castro and other Cuban government officials. lie said that

he was one of the principal conspirators involved

in the

plot, together with Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar.

Subject requested

CIA assistance for the attempt. CIA immediately informed him

that the USG did not condone such attempts and no commitnents

were made to assist him.

Mid 1964.

Some of those mentioned in the report

were indeed working for CIA at the time of their arrest.

Two

of the subjects reportedly tried to poison Castro but there

is no indication in the files reviewed that the assigned

mission of the group was to assassinate Castro or that the

poison was provided by CIA.

(1) Osvaldo Valentin FIGUEROA Galvez. Our only

trace on subject is that his name appeared on a list of

prisoners being held in Cuba at the Guanajay Prison as of

May 1971.

There is no record of any CIA contact or operational

relationship with him.

9

---

## Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

(2) Ramon GRAU Alsina. There is a 201 file on

the individual.

He

was employed by CIA as head of an intelli-

gence gathering net

at the time of his arrest on 21 January

1965 and was convicted of espionage on behalf of CIA. There

is no indication in his file that he was directed to assassinate

Castro.

(3) Leopoldina GRAU Alsina (sister of Ramon GRAU

Alsina). There

is a 201 file on the individual.

A POA was

granted for her use as a source of intelligence

in her

brother's net on 17 March 1961-

However she was terminated

on 18 November 1903 due to insufticient intelligence production

and lack of operational security.

On or about 7 September 1964

it was reported that Leopoldina GRAU Alsina was under suspicion

in connection with an aborted assassination attempt on Castro.

However Leopoldina GRAU MIsina was not arrested until 21 January

1965 along with her brother.

So to orang a d test, 2o

counterrevolutionary activities and attempted assassination

of Castro. A separate report indicates that the Cuban internal

security organs had allegedly found poisonous substances in

her residence.

There is nothing in the files reviewed to

•Indicate that Leopoldina was directed by CIA to assassinate

Castro or any record to indicate that the poisons were provided

by CIA.

(4) Alberto GRAU Sierra. He is a distant cousin

of Leopoldina GRAU Alsina.

He was arrested on 7 September 1964

for an aborted assassination attempt against Castro.

We can

find no record of any operational interest in him by CIA.

(5) Alberto CRUZ Caso. At the time of July 1966

alleged attempt to poison Castro,

subject was working for

another U.S. intelligence organization.

He was suspected of

being a double agent of the Cuban internal security service.

(0) Jesus Manuel CAMPANIONI Sousa. There is a

201 file on the individual.

At the time of his arrest in

January 1965 he was employed by CIA as a member of an intelli

gence net gathering information. There is no indication in

his file that he was directed to assassinate Castro.

(7) We have no identifiable information or any

record of CIA contact with Ramon GRAU Sierra, Reinaldo FIGUEROA

Galvez, Felipe ALONSO Serrera, Jose Manuel RODRIGUEZ Cruz or

Santo

de la C. PEREZ Nunez.

0. September 1964.

Nothing has been located in

our records which indicates

CIA involvement in this incident.

10

ECRE

---

## Page 11

14-00000

....

SEENET

(1) We have no identifiable information on

or record of operational interest in Nemisio CUBILLAS Porez,

Angle Miguel ARENCIBIA Viran, or Rolando GALDOS Ranzola.

i ran

(2) Gregorio Reynaldo DIEGO Solano.

The only

information on subject lists him as a prisoner in Guanajay

Prison as of May 1971.

Early 1965. Nothing has been located in our

records which ties

CIA

to this incident.

(1) Jul10 Omar CRUZ Cecilia; Fermin GONZALEZ

carballo; and Giraldo Reynaldo DIEGO Solano.

We have no

identifiable information on and no record of operational

interest in them.

(2) Rolando GALDOS Rensoli. One reference

Identities subject as Cuban Army Lieutenant in approximately

May 1960.

Q. July 1965. There is nothing in the records

reviewed to link CIA to this incident in any way.

(1) Enrique ABREU Vilahu. Ne have no identi-

fiable information on subject or any indication that we

had any contact with him.

(2) Carlos Vicente SANCHEZ Hernandez. We

One Carlos

ANchEL was declare

because of affiliation with Cuban intelligence.

(3) Jullo RUIZ Pitaluga. We have no record

of any CIA contact with him.

He was reported by a Cuban

retugee to have been a major in the Cuban Revolutionary

Army until 1960 when he became a member of an anti-Castro

then to bosame the

organization.

le was arrested by the Cubans

in July 1965

and as of September 1966 was believed to be held at La

Cabana Prison.

Rolando CUBELA Secades et al. CUBELA'S

201 file (14 volumes) is currently under intensive review

by a staff member of the SSC and therefore treatment of CIA

relationship to CUBELA and the others mentioned in the 1965

Once the

SSC staff member has concluded his review and selected key

documents, we will

screen

and forward them to the Review

Staff separately,

11

---

## Page 12

SERTET

S. Mid 1965 and May 1966.

While some of the

individuals were considered for use by this and other USG

agencies, they were not ultimately employed by CIA and

available records indicate we were not connected with them

at the time the incidents occurred.

(1) Antonio CUESTA del Valle.

There is a 201

file on the individual. Ho was considered for use by clA

in early 1901 as a crewnan for a CIA vessel involved in

maritine operations.

The file does not reveal whether he

was actually used but all interest in him was terminated il

mid 1961. He was

subsequently reported to be

a leader o1

"Comandos L", a Miami-based anti-Castro exile organization.

He was captured in May 1966 after being wounded when his

group attempted to land a team of infiltrators near Havana.

CIA had no connection with the operation and the file does

not confirm that he was involved in an

assassination attempt

against Castro.

(2) Eugenio Enrique ZALDIVAR Cadenas. Thore is

a cut file on the individual, indicating an interest in hin

in April 1966 by another USG

agency. His file was closed

on

7 June 1966.

He is idontified as a member of "Comandos L".

No further information is available.

(3) Sandelio Herminio DIAZ Garcia. There is

a 201 file on the individual.

The file was opened in

September 1957 because of his involvement with Honduran and

Costa Rican revolutionary activities.

He was debriefed by

a CIA case officer in Soptember 1963 as a Cuban refugee.

At that time he claimed to be in contact with anti-Castro

groups in Cuba and stated that he wanted to assassinate

Castro.

He indicated his intention to return to Cuba immediately.

We dropped contact with him at that time and never did have an

operationa. relationship with him.

In January 1966 he was

reported to be involved in a plan

by a Cuban emigre group to

infiltrate Cuba for the purpose of assassinating Castro.

On

30 May 1966 he was identified by Radio Havana as a member of

a commando group killed while trying to land on the island.

However, in August 1973 an individual with the same name and

year of

birth was reportodly involved in narcotics trafficking

in Costa Rica.

subject to be identical with the norcotics trafficker in

Costa

Rica. There is no further information to substantiate

this.

12

---

## Page 13

(4) Armando KOMLAO Martinez.

There is a 201

file on the individual. His file was opened on 4 December

1963 in response to an indication of interest in him by

another USG agency.

The relationship with him was ternin-

ated following his arrest in Miami in January 1964 for illegal

use of narcotics and possossion of explosives and autonatic

weapons.

17 Narch 1967.

A revion of files does not

confirm that CIA was involved in this incilent.

(1) Felix ASENCIO Irejo. There is a 201 file

on the individual which indicates that a POA was granted

on 4 March 1964 since subject was of interest to us as a

possible candidate for paramilitary operations against Cuba.

The POA was cancelled on 20 August 1964 with no indication

that subject was ever actually used operationally.

(2) Wilfredo MARTINEZ Diazs

identifiable infornation on this individual.

We have no positively

(3) Lazaro Gustavo ARICES Alvaro%. There is a

201 file on the individual which indicates that a POA was

granted 7 July 1964 for intended use as a seaman aboard a

CIA vessel involved in maritime operations.

The POA was

cancelled 8 September 1964 with the indication that the

subject was not hired.

1971. There is nothing in files roviowed to

indicate that we

had any contact with the subject mentioned

in the report or were involved in the alleged incidont.

(1) Jesus DOMINGUEZ Benitez. No CIA traces on

subject were found.

Anal lien see noted that the ho are

It is noted that the above totals twenty-one separate

sections whereas there are actually twenty-four

alleged

assassination attempts.

This is due to the fact that

the analyses of the two incidents of 20 July 1961 have been

combined

since they both occurred on the sane day and were

allegedly executed by the same grouy:

The treatment of the

alleged June 1965 poisoning attempt is part of the analysis

of the

mid 1964 incident because the

alleged

pepetrator is

relatés to the group described therein.

The incident described

in Castro's roport as mid 1965 has been convined with the

analysis of the 1966 incident since both were allegedly carried

out by the

sane group.

13

---

## Page 14

1d-0d0

In sunnary, of the twenty-four incidents doscribed

in Castro's report, the files reviewed indicate that cla

had no involvement

In titteen of the cases; 1.e., nover hac

any contact with the individuals mentionel or was not ir

contact with then at the time of the alleyed incidents.

the remaining nine cases, CIA had operational relationships

individuals mentioned but not for the purpose

of assassination.

It is notod that one case is currently

being reviewed by a SSC staff member for selection of documents

to be sanitized.

This case (Rolando CUBELA Secades) was not

reviowed in connection with this nemorandun.

Of the twenty-

three cases reviewed, nothing has been found to substantiate

the charges

that CIA

directed its agents to assassinate Castro.

Raymond A. Yarren

Acting Chiet

Latin

Division

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1=* SA/ DDO

1 - DC/LAD

@ - LA/COG/Chrono

1 -

LA/COG/OPS

kk

(11 August 1975)

14

si:

---

