# 104-10138-10171

## Page 1

104-10138-10171

i.:

A CHECK CLASSIFICATION

UNCL

ren terrors

SIFIED

Cooture !

SECRET

ORACL HOURG GUID

AND CORRESS

05/055

INITIALS

2

:5:512

5

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURPENCE

EINICE REPLY

DISFATCH

FIl.&

IREOOMANION

PREFARE REFLY

RECORMENDATION

SIGNATURE

Heranka:

How your retirtine ar!

Badlege to ashigener

che mugs tani entires.

en attachinent.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

2A/560

I CONFIDENTIAL

SECKET

108-6 70. 237

Use previous editions

1-07

BUSGIO: 1976--202-953

(40)

19804

---

## Page 2

14-00000

...+...

3-t-C-1-B-7

CONTACE REPORT

former staffer

8/09 Day

Fointe Drive

Tampa, Florida

33615

813-851-8510

SUBJECT:

Debriofing on Training and Denolittons Given to Anti-

Castro Cuban Exiles

PLACE : Holiday Inn (Campa: Airport)

Tampa, Florida

TINE

14 January 1977

0900 - 1415 hours

1.

Purpose: To debrief A

on questions posed by tin

Department of Justice reganline anti-Castro Cuban exiles.

Theso

questions, in general, covered training and explosives/detonatio

dorices given to these exiles.

2. Maeting:

cane to my motel room (503) on Friday

morning at 0900 and departed at 1645. During this time, both of us

sat, in easy charis in front of a picture widor on the sth foor -ir.

did 95% of the talking.

Neither of us got up during this veriod,

a strech of almost 8 hours.

A. was most intertaining, but only

marginally informativo as to specific details on the questions prober

to him. Ho spins a good story and remenbors people and places very

My bona fidos for the meeting vas a call fron ls. Sheila

O'Neil to

A a day beforo I arrived in Tampa.

is a littic

goosy, because of a DEA connection (bolow), and checked life out thru

a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used tris

name with

3. Results: A covered the following tonice with me:

Training: On Panama and the facilities used, the best

could remember,

Ft. Shernan was open in about August or

September 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to. 3 month period.

There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIME followers. When it was

decidod a birger group would be noeded, which later became Bripado

2505, these people were sent to Rotalhulou (Gustomala) endanth in

about Novomber 1960. Actually, the group was split, with some going

to Guatemala and others. to. the New. Orleans. area.

As to othor tralning.

in Panama,

A surgested that Mr.

oA, b, retired staffer currently in the New Orleans area,

might be

a good source.

As Iwas C/Ops for the invasion Task Force,

as woel as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for JilAVE at one time.)

S-E-C-R-E-T

i, A., 13

---

## Page 3

As 10 explosives, line delay fuses, reno'.

cobral dovises, dotomtion materials, etc. riven lo thoro exilor,

said, "Look ovor the supply manual for that timo." Apparently,

the exiles wore given everythin that was available and in large

quantities.

A said he just could not bogin to rive me a list

of what had been passed.

Infil loans: After the Bay of Pies invasion,

vorker with infiltration teans. The drency worked with those terma

from toughly 1983 to 1956.

Thay were in two catapories.

The first

wore unilateral teams. traintre, and sponsored by the Agency. The

othor catagory war "political" toans - that is political groups in

southern Florida who were sponsoring infiltrations into Cuba.

The Agency helpod this lator a catapory by riving them supplies.

In the case of both, they usually made a caches

in Cuba.

The

unilateral team, as an example, vould make a cache on-island, and

another group would pick it up and use it (compartmentation).

In some cases, teams. (both unilateral and political) would not

actually make the cache and keep the material. in Florida, to be

used later at their own convenience,

In addition,

I was positive

that some of Castro's troops obtained some of these cachos, due lo

foul-ups and snitches.

These caches containes pistols, rifles and

heavier, money and demolitions. Some of the teams cheated by going

to the Bahamas and buryinh thoir stuff on small islands and reporting

back to Florida that they had cached in Cuba.

stated soveral

timos that there

was no offoctive control over the "colitical"

groups and thereforo no control ofer the material riven them.

Fron

this, me may surmizo that Agency equipment (demolition included) was

in the hands of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as

well as

'Castro's Rebel Army on-island.

d. Brigade Training: Furthor to demolition training to

Anti-Castro Cubans,

A reminded me that shortly after the Brigade

was ransomed from Cuba, Brigade leaders were taken to Palm Beach

and talked with President Kennedy.

At that time, the US Govt offered

Brigade members the chance to join the U.s. amy.

This also included

infil team members, who were completely seperate from the Brigade, and

members of the Brigade airforce.

The Army end of this training was

given at Ft. Benning, Georria and beran in early 1953. There, Brirade

members entered the U.S. Army at roubly equivalent ranks - officers

were made 2nd Lts.

They received Ranger training, plus. jump trainin.

of those men were in the U.s. Army for oither 6 months or one year.

Cubana Bonbing:

was specifically askerl about the

6 October 1976 bombing the of the Cubana airliner in the Caribbean.

A I said the street-word among the Cuban community in south Florida

Is that the bomb should have gone off in the plane on the ground.

Tho

bombers did not mean to kill all of those people.

On BOSCH, the

community does not particularly like him, but admires him bocause he

had been going at Castro tooth and nail for yoars.

They do not like

the idea of terrorism and fault BUSCH and MORALES for this.

S-D-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 4

14-00000

:3=15-C-18-16-1

- 3=

Swing Fevor:

had road the recent articlos in the

papers about

tho introduction of Scino Fover Into Cuba by the Mency

in 1972.

Ho had no knowledie of thin.

did ack if so badl

checked| with DIA??T

Ho said when he had boon with the Amy as a

Specirl. Foreos type, it was unbelievemble what the Army had dowe

in tho ida of dio Mariare inining in ne States.

he mentioned ar

axeaxit a training exorciso in MYC, when a fake substance was inbo-

duced into the water of a hotel where Pres. Disenhover vas stayinz.

In any event, firsh

said if Swine Fever had been introducor

into Cuba, ho wouldn't doubt that the Army/DIA had some hand in it,

espocially if the so-called sourcos claimed it came out of Ft. Galick.

P. Assassinations by the Aroney:

said ho had abcolatol!

no knowledge of assassinations, attempts or plans, by anyone in the

Agency during his tour.

Not only vere they prohibited by the Agency.

they were counter-productive. It was explainer to him during hi:

Azency tour that there was a good chance of an assascination back-

firing; that we (U.S.) are more vulnurable to assassinations than

the Cubans or Soviets. Therefore, as far an he was concorned, ther

vere strickly verboton.

Editorializin,

A said it was too bad

that the upper-ocholonsdid not believe in this restriction. On ton

of that, they approacher mafiosa to help them. (NOTE:

* 'is

rather anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he was in a shoutin;

match during a hearing on the Bay of Pigs invasion.)

h.

Assassination of Peruyero: Juan Jose Feruyero, a Bay

of Pigs veteran and leader of the Brigade 2506, was runned down last

week as he left his home in Minni.

said

tho word on the strea!

among the cuban, community is that this was done by the Del as

to the anti-Cubans in Miami. Foruyero had no enemies - he was not

into drugs, crimo, politics, etc.

By killing him, the Cubans verg

had been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on

the mafia, drug dealors, politicians, etc.

A copy of an oditorial

from the Tampa I'ribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below.

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 5

•4-i000

3-15-C-R-E-I'

5

i.

Assassination of lettalior: Milo on assassinations,

this card ontered

§ convorsation.

He has no porsonal knowlele

of what lapronod. Again, horover, he gavo me the "stroot word. "

In Mami, tho Cuban comunity is saying that the same peoplo to did

Ponte Lickierit:

arranged for the lottalior killing - hired and paid tho killors.

For this reason, the Chicago family of the Mafin is furious with

Traficante, becauso he is/or will bring heat on the Mafia.

The

reason for Traficante doing it???

Fidel Castro hired him and paid

hin well to do it.

The word is that Traficanto has been cooperatir

with tho DoI and Fidel since he departed Cuba.

Fidel wanted Rossoli

killed, because of Rosseli's part in the assassination attenpt againat

Fidel.

emphasized that that this is not his theory, but word

from the street in Miami.

j. CBS Show on Cuba:

A said C'S is planning a show

on the "Lagacy of the Bay of lies," which should bon broateast in

about. May 1977.

CBS has already shot seanx interviers in Miami,

including one with Peruyero (above) before he was killer, plus

covoring the aftemath of his assassination. Currently, the CBS

crew is in Cuba - they hope to filn the beaches at the Pay of Pies -

which had been suggested to them by

has also been

interviowed and has given his opinions for the TV showing. whilo

In Cuba, the CBS crew hopes to also interiow Fidel - also at the

surgestion of

ho has talked ti

The fellow behind the show is named CRILE and

A l extensively.

Accordin, to

A l the shor

would have boen vory anti-agency in its comments, but he

has turned this around almost 180 degrees!l! As planned, the

show will be two hours and shown in May 1977.

Brigado 2505: On the Brigado, A lsaid he had bean

an apolitical organization.

Individunls of any political shade had

been members and politica had not really entored Brigade Association

business.

Last year, howevor, they joined with Orlanlo BOSCH, anonr

others, to help form COllU. Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished

they had never joined CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana

bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the

Brigade Association, which

¡considers a shame.

On the CBS film

(above),

said he was filmed attending an anniversary meeting.

This same meating was where CBS filmerl Peruyero.

1.

& DEA: when

retired from the Agency, ho

moved to Koy Wast. Ho came to the attention of DEA, especially to

lou Conine; an ex-Agency officer now with DEA.

calls Conine

an SOB and worse.

He went. into a long explaination of his activitios

with DEA in Key West. • In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string of

informants.

Because of internal DEA politics, he was blown and left

dangling on a string in Key West. He had to leave town within 24

hours and loft his peoplo (informants) there without calling or

warning then.

As a result, he lost friends, prestigo with his

informants (many of them Cuban exiles) and his business in Key West.

In roneral torns, he was treated very shabbily by DEA and regrots

ever having nixed with them.

He is still in contact with one of

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 6

14-00000

our carafficore

returning to the agency shortly.

operation in kay dost.

operation, ono

Accontin!

B will hir

is tomiliar with the

Another ex-Arency enolovoe at also in-

Ded he quickly rose to GS-lt and was dirocting the key lost oberation.

When it folder, acconting to

.was buste? to G5-13 an!

sent rack to dashington, where he is now working in Din's Inspection

Diviston (similar to our IG Staff).

¡was also aware of anotany

ox-Agoncy employso, (in)

¡ who was to so to flexico under

DEA "deep cover".

Accordine. to

!,

war lo be involun!

in assassination oporations

arainst Moxican dealero and pushers.

Instead,

ended up in El Paso for about a vear and is no:

The undersigned personally know

know of his spocific assignment within DEA. (MOre: " sul did not

while the shore

is a little ramolind, this is the way the debriefine of A, yens

all afternoon l)

"s Manuscript: I had

road A..'e mmuscript,

"Tho Bay of Pirs" bororo doparting Washineton. Lynch explained that,

he had dictaled this paper and had a couple of secrotarins type il.

out.

It is only in very rough form and he wanted to get his thoughts

down on paper.

As he indicates in tho paper, ho wanted to get, the

facts straight.

tie feals that since he was there and part of the

invasion, he has* unique view point. of the Bay of Firs and wants

to see that history roflects his pobition.

As indicated earlier,

A is rather bitter arainst the Nor Frontier, the Kennodys an

Camolot.

This is reflocted in hin manuscript.

claired that

much of his papor had been "stolen" in that ho explained tho invasion,

for instanco, to the CBS crew and they were using sonn of his malarial

in the soon to bee be shown program describer above.

In addition,

mentioned that he harl spoken to the Arency historian - can'!

recall his name - om who is also writing a book (classified) on tho

invasion.

1s to publication, it coens to be in the distant future.

He does not plan to no to a publisher, where he would ter raceiva

royalty payments of around 5%.

Rather, he plans to publish on his

own, probably in Miami, and realizo close to 1008 profit. It micht

cost him kha in the aroa of 15,000, but he could realize a profit of

about $30,000 depending on sales.

n.

lalso spoko about porsonalitios within the

Agency.

He mentioned led Shackley, "Dum'Dum"Dimmer, many people in

LAD who had a part in the invasion or JMWAVE.

is a member of

the retired Agency employees

association that Dave Phillips formed.

As such, he has appearod sevoral times on Tampa radio and TV shows.

To me, he appears to be an articulate defender of the Agency.

4. Conclusion: For me, this was a most intoresting intorviow.

As far as results, the interviow indicated to me that we can rot

broad-brush overviews from retired Agency employaes, and fow details.

To answer specific quostions from Congress and/or the Dopartment of

Justice, we must continue to dig and come up with docurents from

S-F-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 7

Arancy filos.

Unfortunnally these documants appear lo be most

difficult to locate and cotriove, many of them burled in rotired

Cile holdings.

5.

Rocormendations: do should contime to sock information

fron retired wrency employnes, aspecially when it appears that they

tree intimately

inspired in

which we are interoster.

This should be a solective procaos anl

used only when de bolieve the intiree could contribute to our

immediate inquiry.

The documented faces, howovor, are still neede?

to. anower questions posed to us officially by other Goverument.

entities.

S-D-C-R-E-T

---

