# 104-10143-10098

## Page 1

104-10143-10098

03:37%

SECRET

ADV C/LA 1550Z

=

OLC #18-1745/L

FRP:

STAFF

ACTION: C/LA-8

(016)

INFO: FILE, VR, DDO -4, C/CI-4, C/EPS/EG=2.

C/IP/OMS, CALSIVID, CAPES, ODPD-D, SA/DO/O,

(24/19)

78 0715681

PAGE 001

TOR: 181546Z

MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

DDO

SECRET 181450Z MAY 78 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 45116 (CHAIDEZ ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

* SUGGEST DISSEM TO: ICS, OLC

WNINTEL RYBAL.

REF: DIRECTOR 224314

1.

STATION DOES NOT FORESEE ANY

PROBLEMS WITH HSCA

INTERVIEWING SUBJECTS PARA

3 REF IN MEXICO AND ENDORSES

PROPOSAL CONDUCT THE INTERVIEWS WITHIN THE AMERICAN EMBASSY

PARTICULARLY IF SUBJECTS ARE TO BE PUT UNDER OATH.

2.

VISIT OF MSCA MEMBERS TO MEXICO RE THE KENNEDY

REQUEST FOR

• THIS SERVICE THROUGH STATE CHANNELS AND SOME

OFFICIAL WORD ABOUT THE ARRIVAL OF THE HOSA/KENNEDY GROUP

BEFORE HE CAN COMMIT THE USE OF EMBASSY PREMISES, THE

CHARGE HAD ONLY ONE STIPULATION CONCERNING THE INTERVIENS

AND THAT WAS THAT THE PERSONS MUST COME TO THE EMBASSY ON THEIR

C OMN FREE WILL.

¿ LEAD

TIME IN ORDER TO MAKE PROPER ARRANGEMENTS, THE EMBASSY

ALREADY HAS MADE PLANS TO ACCOMMODATE ANOTHER ASCA GROUP

INVESTIGATING THE MURDER OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING. THIS

GROUP IS ALSO SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE MEXICO CITY OJA 30 MAY.

EVERYTHING HAS BEEN LAID ON FOR THAT VISIT BY THE EMBASSY,

INCLUDING CO-ORDINATION WITH THE MEXICAN ATTORNEY GENERAL'S

OFFICE.

AS OF COB 17 MAY, THE EMBASSY HAS NOT RECEIVED

ANY NOTICE OF ARRIVAL OF

THE HSCA/KENNEDY GROUP AS INDICATED

PARA TWO REF.

Ц.

RE PARA 5 REF:

MR, CORNWELL SHOULD CONTACT

MR. LAWRENCE E, STERNFIELD, THE COS.

SECRET

21076

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 0718681

PAGE 002

TOR: 181546Z MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

5.

STATION HAS REVIEWED QUESTIONS LISTED PARA & REF

AND RECOMMENDS THAT HQS RESOLVE THE OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS

CONTAINED PARA 4. REF.

STATION COVERING THAT PERIOD AND THERE ARE NO PERSONNEL

PRESENTLY ASSIGNED WHO HAVE ANY KNOWLEDGE OF STATION EVENTS

DURING THAT PERIOD.

THE FOLLOWING ANSWERS (KEYED TO THE

QUESTIONS) REFLECT

TOTALITY OF STATION KNOWLEDGE AT THIS TIME.

A• INFORMATION NOT AVAILALBLE OR KNOWN AT STATION,

B. NO RECORD AT STATION.

c.

UNLESS TIME/DATE IS INDICATED ON PHOTOGRAPHS

AND TELTAPS, IT WOULD BE ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO LINK THEM

• TOGETHER.

FOR EXAMPLE, EVEN TODAY, WITHOUT IMPROVED

TECHNOLOGY, WE STILL DO NOT HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO INDICATE

THE TIME OF THE INDIVIDUAL CALLS MADE DURING THE DAY.

DO ACCORDING TO PROJECT RECORDS, THERE WERE (TWO›.

TELTAP OPERATIONS ACTIVE AROUND THIS PERIOD: THE LIENVOY

PROJECT RENEWAL

HMMW- 11457, 4 APR 63) SAYS

THAT 30 LINES WERE COVERED.

NO ADDITIONAL INFO OR IDENTITY

OF TARGETS AVAILABLE AT STATION.

LIFEAT

→ WHICH COVERED 23 LINES.

A PROGRESS

REPORT

COVERING PERIOD NOV/DEC 63 (HMMA-22857, 6 FEB 64)

PROVIDES IDENTIFICATION OF THE TARGETS.

THIS DISPATCH

LISTS TWO LINES COVERED IN CONNECTION WITH THE- AMSTRUT

OPERATION.

WEJANNOT IDENTIFY AMSTRUT AND THUS DO NOT KNOW

IF THIS IS COVERAGE OF ANY OFFICIAL CUBAN INSTALLATION. AS

• YET, WE CANNOT LOCATE ANY RECORD AT STATION OFT

COVERAGE PES TOLSTEL TAN THE SOVIET LUSZA ALFRE ARSENE

PLS IDENTIFY THE THREE

_TELTAP TARGETS

MENTIONED PARA 4D REF.

E.

INFORMATION ON THE CAMERA LOCATIONS OR

; PHOTOGRAPHS IS NOT AVAILABLE STATIONS.

F.

WOULD PREFER THAT MEETINGS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE

MEXICAN OFFICIALS BE ARRANGED THROUGH THE EMBASSY.

6...

STATION WILL OFFER EVERY ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

WITH THE HSCA INVESTIGATORS, HOWEVER, THE FACT THAT THE

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECFET

STAFF

78 0718681

PAGE 003

TOP: 181546Z MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

HSCA WILL BE INVESTIGATING TELTAP OPERATIONS

CAUSES US CONSIDERABLE CONCERN.

DURING PAST YEAR

WE HAVE ENCOUNTERED INCREASING SENSITIVITY

AS RESULT OF REVELATIONS AND EXPOSES

CONCERNING CIA AND FBI ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO. ONE OF THE

MOST SENSITIVE OPERATIONS FROM THE

IS TELTAPS, I

A VERY DISTINCT LINE BETWEEN REVELATIONS

ABOUT CIA ACTIVITIES ORIGINATING FROM CRITICS AND ENEMIES

AND THUSE BEARING THE IMPRIMATUR OF THE U.S- GOGERNMENT

THE RELEASE OF THE FBI DOCUMENTS I

JICFO MEXICO

CITY 43110).

7. ANY PUBI IS REVELATION BY THE MSCA OF S

OF THESE OPERATIONS ANO

MAY WELL RESULT IN THE CIRTATIMENT

REPORTING SOURCES.

PLUS THE VERY REAL LOSS OF HIGH-LEVEL

8. NO FILE. EZ, IMPDET.

-

END

CF

MESSAGE

SECRET

---

