# 104-10069-10376

## Page 1

104-10069-10376

SECRET

OTE TONE DB-315/06286-76

DIST 22 JUNE 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES ANE METHODS INVOLVÉD-ONCE RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS --

NOP RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRYS @CUBA/PANAMA/ DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

D011

21 JUNE 1976

• SUBJECT, OPOSSIBLE PLANS OF CUBAN EXILE EXTREMISTS TO BLOW UP A

CUBANA AIRLINER

ACOI

122 JUNE 1976)

SOURCES A BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE TIES TO THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNTIY.

HE IS: A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER.

1. A CUBAN EXILE EXTREMIST GROUP, OF WHICH ORLANDO

SCH

I6 A WEADER, PLANS TO PLACE A BOMB ON A CUBANA AIRLINE FLIGHT

TRAVELLING BETWEEN PANAMA AND HAVANA, ORIGINAL PLANS FOR THIS OPERA-

P:ON CALLED FOR TWO BOMBS BEING PLACED ON THE 21 JUNE 1976 CUBANA.

FLIGHT NUMBER 407, WHICH WAS SCHEDULED TO LEAVE PANAMA AT 11115 A.M.

LOCAL PANAMA TIME.

2. • BOSCH IS CURRENTLY RESIDEING IN THÊ DOMINICAN REPUBLIC...

(SOURCE COMMENTA BOSCH WAS ARRESTED IN

COSTA RICA IN FEBRUARY. 1T

15 NOT KNOWN WHEN HE WAS RELEASED. ' 10-7,10

#3, FIELD DISSEMI

SENT TOL

56-8-11

SECRET

RETURNTO CHA

LEPRODUCTION

---

## Page 2

14

POSA: 3007 OBSOlEONNIOUS

EDITIONS

IN 958679

TDFIR DB-315/0b28b-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE: INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHOD! INVOLVED

PAGE: 2 OF 2 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT. :

(classicaston)

REPORT CLASS S E CRE TO WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS --

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORA CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED

#RECORDED REPORTING OFEICER.; XGDS-2.

ADVANCE

COPY TRANSMITTED

STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JOS SWS NSA TREAS

FAA SS/ID FBI CIA/OPSCENTER.

• AFRATURE CARO. REPRODUGTION

---

