# 104-10215-10149

## Page 1

104-10215-10149

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Deputy Chief, WII/SA

FROM

Chief of Station.

JRIWAVE

TYPIC/Operationa 1/AMLILAC

• Amended NOC for Subject 201-332676

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE

PRO.

-OSED

PROCESSING

MARKED FOR INDEXING

HO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

MEADQUARTEAS DESH

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCUA

FISHLEY

UFGA 18946, 9 December 1964

B. UFGA 17818, 25 September 1964

Transmitted herewith for Headquarters information and files

are three copies of an amended Memorandum of Oral Commitment

for Subject 201-332676. This amendment is submitted due to a

raise in Subject's salary.

Hilda K. Fertilimans

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

Attachments:

A.

3 cys, MOC H/W

B. 3 cys, IDEN U/S/C

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - Addressee w/atts

2 attack

€202

Excluded tran

ESTHETIS

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-832676

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

14 Jan 65

JAN 18 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-19442

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

• 201-332676

---

## Page 2

TO

8 Chief, Special Alfal's Stall

FROU : Chief of Station, JUTAV?

SUBJECT: Engsgcnent of.

IDENTITY A

201 - 332670

Term and project Chiffe.

engaged undor orat contrace for

The Subject Individual has bean

use under TYPIC and in to be charged

against Fi cost contoi.

The effective dato of sho oral contract l9

1 CaLay 1965

party upon liltuen days actual notice.

2. Escurily Approval.

utiline sudicet as requested

to uppropriate seews refuelted to

has beon obiainst.

per u94)7555, 3 Beptember 1964.

Citizershlo.

The Subjoct 1g

G L45 7039

has 805150, 22009)

and+

and

residus at

Compensation.

Cornancing on the elioctive date oz t441.87

agreement, subject will be pala compensation at the rntool S

per month.

Such paymenta to be made following complation of satis-

factory sarvice.

incone

Taxes. Subject n1]?/#E17064 ba obligated to pay U.S.

Fazca will/d 8st bo doducted fron the abovo statod

paid compensstion. Subject astrasixeligible for Social Bocuity.

* IDATITY C

Subject Is

-brrled

and has a total of

dependents other than hinself, Subject'& dependente treet

residing in cha U.S:, U.8. possessions, Canada, Morico, too Coral

Zone, or the Republic of Fanina.

Quarters and/or Subsistonce.

be furnished quartors und/or cubsistence.

The Subjoct NITI/vil] not

w1l1 be reimbursod lor:

Operational Esponses. When properly authorized, Subjoet

Operational travel including nilbage claims for olficial

use of his personal nutcobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calle, ete.

8. Other Cormitaents.

Is case of capture, 50% salary until relessed or fOr

tuo years, whichever is less.

b. In case of death, four conths salney to dependents:

e. 'In case of rounds, medienl caro.

d. With ario: aporconi of COS, a bonus my be authorized :

for outstanding performanco in the

line of duty.

The zhount of

the bonus will be commenswate with the risks taken and resulta

which were achieved but will not ercoed $100 per singie bonus

payment.

Contingent Obligations.

No commitments other than these

stated above

nA V3

been hado

TO.

the Subject.

JAN 1S

SIGNED:

REVIEWED:

Valet

Contract approving Diticer

REVIEWED:

дам

paid Contreating fret

Erelates

---

## Page 3

14-0000

ICEET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHNIT TO:

UFGA-10412, 14 SANTARY 1965

IDENTITY As JUAn 8. ELANCO Fernandez

IDENTITY B:

6831 AW 6 Street, Miami, Florida

IDENTITT C:

S/c attich #2

UFGN-19442

SECRET

1340.02

aI 837

801-332676

---

