# 104-10215-10184

## Page 1

104-10215-10184

ö sift. 19963

Mr. Cheever,

The following is a surmary of information on the persons

mentioned in the attached memorandum from

Ao Jose de Jesue JINJAUMA

A Castro bodyguard who is described as a gangster Interested

in financial gain.

Osvaldo Antonio CASTELL; Valdes

An MHAPRON target and old friend of Roaindo CUBELA (more

commonly known as AMLASH/1).

CAStELL was reportedly

with the Cuban Security Department and 1s a cousin of

Ramiro Valdes, the Interior Minister.

CASTELL, Is anti-

regime and CUBELA believes that he will "fall in line" 1f

there is a successful coup.

Sicaliss

C. Rolando CUBELA

(AMLASH-1)

A medical doctor at Manuel Fajardo Hospital in Havana.

He's deternined to kill Castro.

D. Marcos GIRON Colderer

A negro, about 40, who is described as a comnist

opportunist. He was formerly a National Police Chief

In Havana.

Ludo PERLANDER de la Camera

Reportedly an undercover agent for Castro and member of

at the G-2. As of July 64 he was a Castro bodyguard.

Fo Faure CHOMON

An old filend of Cubels's and Castell's. All fought

together against Batista and all were menbers of the

Directorio Revolucionario (DR), a leftiat student

organization®

CHOMON was the Cuban Ambassador

to the USSR and is presently the Transportation Minister®

2.

cubela, as you know, has frequently expresged his desire to

kill Fidel Castro, Infact, sone officers in WH/SA, belleve that if

anyone would

attempt such a fete it would be tubela. Cubela's concern,

however, seems to be one of assurance and certainly not cowardness.

He

wants U. S, assurance of innediate intervention should he be successful

In disposing of Castro and other leaders. Perhaps this is the "personal

Safety" JINJAUMA rofers to in his letter to Zarraga.

---

## Page 2

3.

The presence of two bodyguards in this group indicates the

accesssbility to their target, a significant factor in a plot of this

type, especially since Castro 1s so cosely guarded.

4o Platlly, It 1a not extraordinary that JINJAUMA should direct his

letter to a JURE member, namely Zarraga.

In his talks with Nestor

Sanchez, Cubela has clearly stated that of all the exile leaders in the

United States, he considers Manuel Ray as the only person who would be

peruitted to return to Cuba, 11 Cubela 1s successful in a coup against

Castro. Cubela realizes, of course, that Ray is not a politician nor

a good organizer, but as an engineer, Ray has the qualities that would

be extremely useful in Cuba's reconstruction.

5. If you desire to have this incoration sent to Mr. Chirins,

we would like to includo a few questions on Zarraga, via his knowledge of

several Individuals mentioned, on whon there is obscure information.

Al

Addendum: Marceline ARTIME Vega

ARTIME has been a cutout between Cubela and Tepedino (AM-HIP).

Like Tepedino, ARTIME 18 & Jewlen in Havana®

learning that

ARTIME 18 closely tied in with Cubela and Tepedino supporte

the bellef that the group is tightly knit.

I have learned too, that the information we have received

regarding a possible assassination of Fidel Castro has,

in nearly every case, originated fron & member of this

group, which again indicates that this group is united

and they each understand that one miscue will destrey

вод вий ходим"не.

---

