# 104-10172-10260

## Page 1

- 104-10172-10260

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CIA INTERIA USE QUAY

C I INFORMATION REPORT

[POSTORAGE

SSSR--

16.35.

THS FOLLOWING REPORT CONTAINS INFORMATTON DERTYSO PACH A SENSITIVE

SOIRCE AND REQUIRES SPECIAL HANDLINO. IT MAY BE SACHS ONLY TO

PERSONS WIT A NESD TO KNON AND MAY NOT RECEIVE GERTRAL DISTRIBUTION

MITHIN RECIPIENT OFTICES. FURTHER DISSEDLATTON OF THIS INPORMATION

MUST BE COORDINATED WITH THE ORIGINATINO OFFICE..

rometro.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1-2 BAPDET CL BY: 206682

1607. 3187:

809-70-401

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SI.CRET/SO FORMIES DISSI

COUNTLRINTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT

SHSK -1635

Country: USSRO

Subject: Anatolly Mikhaylovich COLITSYN

DOl : 1966 - 1972

SourCe: A former Soviet military officer who defected to the West and

was later run as a KGB agent

Any dissemination of this information to Field

Stations or to officers not on the initial

distribution must hodcoordinated with

SE/CT/8_

information is

not releasable to

services or to any office outside

the DUO.

During the period 1966 to 1972 Source had a standing requirement from

his KGB handlers to report

anything he could learn about the defectors Anatolly

Mikhaylovich Golitsyn and Yurly Ivanovich Nosenko, In addition to a general

requirement to report on any Soviet defectors.

At first the KGB gave Source to

understand that the KGB's Intention was to kill Golitsyn and Nosenko, if they

could be located; in fact, the KCB specifically told Source that this was its

Intention toward Nosenko.

2. In 1968 Source's KGB handler said that the KGB had information

Indicating that both Golftsyn and Nosenko were somewhat unhappy and seemed to

regret having defected. The handler added that, now that there were direct

flIghts between the US and the USSR, Golitsyn or Nosenko might be "put in a box"

and flown to the USSR.

of these defectors:

Source was again urged to try to find out the whereabouts

3, In 1972 Source's KGB handler indicated particular interest in the

whereabouts of Golitsyn, saying that he might be more dissatisfied chan losenke

with condicions in the US.

Source was told to continue efforts to establist

contact with Golftsyn and

to assess his recruitment potential.

khen Source

sald that he had previously been given to understand that the KGB wanted co ki1l

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

WARNING MOTICE

SENSITINE INTELIGE. CE SOURCES

AND METHOOS IXVOLVED

SECRET/NO FORCIGY DISSEM

---

## Page 3

14,00000. 11'/n'

SECRET/SU FOREIGS DISSEY

2

Golies, the KGB handler denied thas this lad ever been the X.3's intention,

although he allowed that Source's prerious handler might hare sold that on his

source had the impression shat che NCB was convinced cha:, If GolitasT

sere properly approaches, he sould worà for the XGB main.

COYMENT:

27 June 1975

Distribution:

I-C/SE/CI,/Y

1-SE/CI/S

2C/CIRA

I-C/SE/CI/I

2-SE/CI/R (Young)

03

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

