# 104-10105-10102

## Page 1

104-10105-10102

0. 300/294

Pesteroar tus Cry

LE's repreduce

1 July 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Director of Security

FROM

SUBJECT

External Activities Branch

: Manuscript by David Phillips .

1.

Attached herewith is a proposed letter to

Mr. David A. Phillips outlining deletions which the

Agency would like made from his book.

The general tone

the responses from Agency components was that, if

possible,

this book should not be published. In

the view

it dangerously reveals sources and methods,

It

also

covert Agency activities

and the disruption and reduced morale created by Agee

and others.

2. However, on the assumption that publication

could not or would not be blocked, the operating components

catalogued their most serious concerns.

The attached

letter to Mr. Phillips includes many of these reservations.

The chapter by chapter review, which appears later in

this memorandum, contains those recommendations for deletion

which, for various explained reasons, should not be forwarded

to Mr.

Phillips.

3.

Before proceeding with the manuscript revlew,

we would like to advise that Mr. John Greaney of OGC ha:

volunteered his services to accompany you or Mr. Stembridge

when our proposals are placed before Mr. Phillips.

Due

to time limitations, he has not had a chance to review

this memorandum or the proposed letter to Mr. Phillips

as of this date.

OS 6

2899-A

---

## Page 2

* RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

IDe Not Reproduce

4.

The following is a compilation of items of concern

to Agency components which were not included in the letter

to Mr. Phillips.

This does not include chapters one and

six which have been previously reviewed and returned to

Mr. Phillips.

5. Chapter two: Guatemala

a .

Several offices expressed concern that this

book, for the first time, confirms the CIA's role with

Col. Armas and the coup.

not tele a ena doctor to cat in his none ano

not included in the letter to Mr. Phillips.

was true of the reference to the coup in Iran (p. 43).

b.

Another area of concern was our relationship

with the FBI in connection with his arrest and our use

of false identity papers in the U. S.

Of particular

concern was mention of a capability to alter FBI criminal

records. Again, we don't believe we can prove classification.

C.

The one item which could have been deleted

was a footnote on page 35 which inferred that the CIA

had indemnified Lloyd's of London for a sunken ship..

LA Division was able only to ascertain that no payment

had been made as of August 1960. Since the footnote

begins "press

reports claimed that.. ."without further

specitying the source, we felt it best to make no comment

to Mr. Phillips on this point.

•6. Chapter three: Havana and Beirut

a. Some concern was expressed regarding the

paragraph on page 13 explaining salary off-set for deep

Although this may be truely classified,

it might be best to let it remain as is, to dissuade

readers that the Agency or its officers

are making extra

money on the side.

Other comments related to the details of

Mr the ravan a Co is ma cont Fring that angway

2

---

## Page 3

* RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

NDa Not Reproduce

American executed by the Cubans was a ClA NOC (p. 48).

The latter point, while clearly sensitive, was not raised

to Mr. Phillips as LA Division posed no specific objection.

7. Chapter four: Bay of Pigs

a .

Some objection was raised to Mr. Phillips

citing the Gulf Steamship Company as a cover

broadcasting aspect of the Bay of Pigs operation.

in checking this out

cu of the e

for the

However,

it was learned that the cover was

the Gibralter Steamship Company so no objection is made

to the use of Gulf.

b. SSU also raised questions regarding the

confirmation of assassination planning against Castro

(p. 12) and the use of the Alban Towers Hotel as a temporary

lodging facility for Agency personnel (p. 17).

Since

no one else raised an objection on these

points, they

were not relayed to Mr. Phillips.

8. Chapter five: Mexico City

a.

In addition to all the comments directed

to Mr. Phillips (see attached letter), the SSU objected

to discussion of the purchase of scotch (p. 15), the

specifics associated with the Cuban missile crisis (pp. 25-27),

and the handling of "walk-ins" (pP. 33-35). LA Division

also objected to the Agency's role in name tracing (p. 8).

In view of the considerable deletions requested

of Mr. Phillips, the above were not included as their

sensitivity and

justification for classification appears

to be marginal.

9. Chapter seven: Washington, D. C.

a.

Several offices took exception to some items

in this chapter which were not passed on to Mr. Phillips.

b. The SSU objected to the mention of liquor

in the Director's dining room and the footnote confirming

3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

" RETURN TO CIA

Bacisground Lise Dory

L/Do Not neproduca

a ClA role in the Glomar Explorer (p. 26). In view of the

fact that GSA

is now trying to rent or sell the ship, we

don't feel we can justify a classification on these items.

C.

The DDO objected to the general discussion

of cover starting on page 29, but we could not pin the

objection down to specifics.

SSU commented that Mr. Phillips

reveals the location of many stations around the world

(includingl

names would be/2-32

on page 31), but deletions of the

difficult to justify legally.

d. Both the SSU and LA Division objected to

Mr. Phillips mention of assassination attempts on Castro

(pp. 42-44), but, again, we would have trouble defending

the classification of the information presented.

10. Chapter eight: Rio de Janeiro and Caracas

₴ .

The most sensitive objections to this chapter

involved the information on pages 15 to 20 of our role

in Chile - Track II:

These included the allegation of

back-channel correspondence and the fact that the information

could distort the public's view of the whole affair.

Unfortunately, no one could tie it to the sources and methods

or classification questions and therefore

it was not included

in the Phillips letter.

b. Other items of concern were the discussion

of cover in Brazil (pp. 2-3); the operational use of

women (P: 45); the employment of blacks (p. 26), especially

the revelation that two black officers in Brazil were

LA OffICErS, Jeopardizing their cover, and that Army

commo went through the Agency during the Dominican crisis

(p. 31). While all of these could cast us in a questionable

light or make operational life more difficult, it would

be difficult to justify their deletion on legal grounds.

11. Chapter nine: LA Division

a. Although the requested deletions from this

chapter are rather lengthy, they do no include all

reservations raised by our offices.

4

---

## Page 5

20021993

Bangua la Cit

1.0e Niel Repretues

b.

Several offices objected

to references to

the assassination of President Kennedy and the watergate

affair (pp. 5

16, 30).

These

were rather innocuous

and could probably not

be justified on legal grounds.

c.

The second objection was the author's general

verification of the information in the Agee book

and the

to discuss the

damage potential with Mr. Phillips directly.

12. Chapter ten: Retirement

The DDO raised the question that Mr. Phillips

statement on page 12 that he knew Agee has been to Cuba

five times betrays knowledge he gained either from travel

programs or liaison services.

This would be a difficult

point to argue in any confrontation with Mr. Phillips.

13. Epilogue

a. The SSU questioned whether this manuscript

is the proper vehicle to surface the fact that two cables

sent to Santiago

in May 1973 established our non-involvement

in the overthrow of Allende (p. 6). We could see no

justification to strike this.

b. The SSU further believes that revelation of

friction between Mr. Colby and Dr. Kissinger (p. 13) is

also improper.

Perhaps so, but difficult for us to press

for deletion.

And last, the SSU objected to comments on

pp. 14-18 which are suggestive of Agency judgements ano

valuation regarding the conduct and success of the

investigative efforts as well as other personalities

critical of the Agency.

Att

Distribution:

Orig - Adse

- OS Registry

1

- EAB

1 - Chrono

03

OS/ SSD/EAB,

:sw (1 Jul 76)

5

---

