# 104-10073-10133

## Page 1

104-10073-10133

NO. PAGES.: 1

REFERENCES

5: 78 M

1. 4gul4

DATE OF

INFO.

June 1961 and Barlier

PLACE &

• DATE ACOE

--; June 1961

SOÜRCE:

•THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

"Cuban national, residing in the us.

Source 18

bf former President Carlos Prio

Socarras and held positions of Cabinet rank during Prio's administration.

[Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report

generate additional requirements.J

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office

of preparation.]

I have been informed by contacts within pro-Fidel Castro groups that Castro

agents in the US are attemprime to determine whether there are any militory

tranining

ca"?

Taut

location and

operatio:

of w

Che

Airp

with

furt

no suspect

Merco Nugez,

former aide to che lace

ilo

/ Bano&d former employee of the Jose Marti

irnational

of Rebel Army Captain Angel Banos; who arrived in the US

jutierrez Menoyoy Jesug Dieguez and Eva Gutierrez, not

LUH/4!

Tuba

Il Brancis

SCO-N-F-I"D-E-N-T-I-A-L

AIR

14. 30%

OFORN

MELD:

NFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

# NO DISSEM ABROAD

Dissemination limit

od to full time employees ul CiA, ALC and Ful; and, within State and Delense, to tre intelligenco componanta, const

immediate supporting staffe.

Not to be disseminated to consultante, extornal projece s

nattle dice

Individuala who are normally (ull-time employees of CIA, ABC, FBI, State or D

980) 119/030?4!

boon brained through the Assistani Direcror. for Contral Reference.

CIA.

371a039d2

# 0980

Flackground Ule Ony

Do Not Monrod

---

