# 104-10169-10087

## Page 1

104-10169-10087

mens on

ТОМ МІАНІ

AchON

DVO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGI

iot4s

SECRET

onsmor O

LE RIO COPYE ADVANCE COPY TUBED CSDO, TIME, ISE, BY D):

DCI, DVOCI, EX DIR, DOP, CS/RF, C5/D0,

Б/OCT 1, D/ONE.

SECRET 182118Z

18 MN 2244Z 66 1N 36582

DIR INFO

LANT BARR CITE

WAVE 8511

TATEL TYPIC

• BUPDATAS NO PROJECT. SOURCES ANGLINA I FROM ANRAZZ-1, 16 JANUARY

•1966, PARA, Z WAS RECEIVED MAX EDUARDO LESNICK MENENDEZ, PARAS.

3 TO 5 FROM JOSE PRINCE AND TITO PELAEZ, PARA 6 IS BASED OF UFG

1853. RID NO INDEX FILED 182118Z|

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUBA

201-9745k

SUBÜN PROGRESS OF PLANS TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL. CASTRO RUZ.

0018 7 ANO 13 JANUARY 1966)

PADAS UNITED STATES, MIAMI. (18 JANUARY 1966)

UFG-7898

IN COMMENT.

MICROFILMED

JAN 2 ? 1966

DOC MICRO, BER

$ 201-203040

В 299243.

NO DIATON TON OR THE ATIACHED

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGEMINI

HELEASE BY THE ACTIOPALMI

201-308136

18 jansob

PRIORITY

TOC

ROUTINE

HASED ON

RELASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

-да%

UAISON

freeti do not ite

SECRETA

24 Yg 07224241

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED...

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Qu

Do Not Repro

: Copy. No,

---

## Page 2

14-00000

# de

KLA-D Uns Previms Refinion

CAST TO PLO

• очі -

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FILE RO D

DESTROY D

SECRET

HEY TO GRANCH O

по .

QUEVISCO A-AN

AFG F05

ROLLING.

15

ACTION

NO

8] RID COPY

VA. PILE, ADOP, CAS, CATEG, CAPROP,

a/Ops, C/Ca FL M/D . MINT

IN 36582 PAGE 2

SOURCES: A CUBAN EMIGRE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE)

HE HAS BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION AND ON

GENERAL

"EMIGRE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-I962,: Ir

Vain 3

y? i

97200 02

cr.r

STON

WE COMMENT.

akes surends

RELLASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTEDI""

IDES

ROUTINE

BASED ON

LAISON:

SEGRET..

Me An

REPRODUCY BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFICE IS 1_ HIBITED

AUTOMA!

Ake

PRIORITY

: 132?

Coọy Na

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1a88 2000

SECRET

Ahen Filled Lal

Cn.: 870 126

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

TDCS

COUNTRY

DATE OF

NO

PLACE A

DATE ACO

SOURC

AND

APPRAISALS

RET

FIELD REPORT NO.

iN 36502

1213

1.

(FIELD COMMENT. THERE HAVE BEEN A SERIES OF ALLEGED PLOTS

¿TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, PLANNED BY VARIOUS EMIGRES AND

EMIGRE GROUPS IN MIAMI.).

203040

1220 ON ABOUT 7 JANUARY 1966 HERMINIO DIAZ GARCIA SAID THAT HE

AND HIS GROUP WERE READY TO LEAVE FOR CUBA TO CARRY OUT THEIR PLAN

v TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. (SOURCE COMMENT. AS OF 13 JANUARY

DIAZ HAD NOT BEEN SEEN AGAIN, AND IT IS POSSIBLE THAT HE LEFT MIAMI

• FOR AN EMBARKATION POINT IN SOUTH FLORIDA.)

3.

ON 13 JANUARY JOSE PRINCE AND "TITO" PELAEZ SAID THAT

robiblied by

alt i court late a 9th te Mell of serial a led ey net da behole En

Tilla 10, US.C, Sees. 70) and 794, la tranimlalon or revolation of which

voauthoriaad peror

SECRET

NO FUREIGN OSACYCOMIONU24 DIEREL

tankuded

CATIONE DIA • ANAYACH NAVY AIR IS MCOLA. NIA: NIC ALD. USIA OC ONI OCI

---

## Page 4

3002

SINCH: CS TUFNRSCK TUFORSCK SINS: 801018.8.6018 8610876898 868-N07 ABSB:

- H00&01

SECRET

JAN L:

Jan ¿l

32s i 66 365222

TDC"

PAGE 2

THEIR PLAN TO ASSASSINATE CASTRO WAS COMPLETE.

THE ATTEMPT WILL BE

MADE AT AN UN:DENTIFIED BEACH WHERE CASTRO VISITS FOR SEVERAL DAYS

AT A TIME. WHEN CASTRO ARRIVES AT THE BEACH, UNNAMED PEOPLE IN THE

UNITED STATES WILL BE NOTIFIED.: (SOURCE COMMENT. PRESUMABLY THE

ASSASSINS WILL LEAVE THE UNITED STATES FOR CUBA AT THAT TIMÉ.)

PRINCE AND PELAEZ HOPE THAT NOTIFICATION OF CASTRO• ARRIVAL AT.

THE BEACH WILL BE RECEIVED BEFORE THE END OF FEBRUARY.

.-..

4. ACCORDING TO PRINCE AND PELAEZ, THE FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS

FOR: THE VENTURE WERE COMPLETE, EXCEPT FOR SOME MINOR LAST MINUTE

EXPENSES:

5.. PRINCE AND PELAEZ WERE ATTEMPTING TO OBTAIN SEVERAL MORPHINE

INJECTIONS AS WELL AS. TWO TRANSISTOR RADIOS AND SPARE "BATTERIES, FOR

AN UNSPECIFIED PURPOSE:

6. (FIELD COMMENT. A RECENT REPORT FROM THE SAME SOURCE

REPORTED THAT DIAZ, A MEMBER OF THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO 30 DE

NOVIEMBRE (MRTN, 30 NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT), PLANNED TO LEAVE

THE UNITED STATES ON ABOUT 10 JANUARY FOR CUBA TO ATTEMPT TO

'ASSASSINATE CASTRO... THE SAME REPORT INDICATED THAT PRINCE AND

PELAEZ HAD POSTPONED THEIR PLAN.)

7• FIELD DISSEM. CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS. OF

STATE, FBI, I&NS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG.

424

SECRET

•END OF MESSAGE

in dancind Masternedan 04ymg

---

