# 104-10418-10048

## Page 1

1104-1018-10048

On 18 August 1971 received report form (SYMPATHIZER/61) to

effect

that OLTMANS had

received a letter from Mr. HOLDRIDGE, Chief of

Staff for Asia and assistant to KISSINGER. OLTMANS expects to

meet with HOLDRIDGE in Washington on 6 or 7 Septemher 1971.

HOLDRIDGE probably identical with FSO John M. HOLDRDIGE currently

(1971) servicng Ah$ as Chief, Asia, on White House Staff.

20138 (IN 403970), 18.8.71

20-6

• .

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Ex 02050, 26.5.65

intervieni.

316-0121365, s6-3.65

#++ 30--0614

HiS: Duteli Televisori Fanudation.

Nederlandse Televisie alialking.

Association fer de lavestigateris af

Assassinati re ino drestargli a

e. claud materie belgret

4pV

---

## Page 3

13-00000

OLTMANS well-known to station as pro-Peking left-winger,

sensationalist and totally irresponsible journalist and also

notorious homo. OLTMANS spends considerabele time in US organizaing

sensational anti-American TV programs or shows of the most vicious

type to be shown on Dutch TV, e.g. GARRISON OLTMANS interview.

5423 (IN 87916), 6 February 1969

c0-6

---

## Page 4

13-00000

OLTRANS, who previously produced a commentary on the murder of

KENNEDY

Is still working on this matter in cooperation with

Jim GARRISON.

He claims to know who the KENNEDY murderer was.

In connection with this OLTMANS has been the guest of an "oil

millionaire" in Texas.

According to OLTMANS he was invited there because of "his know-

ledge of the affair" and the fact that he would be able to act

as a medium to bring the facts to the world. At his request Jim

GARRISON has provided him with a body guard while working on

this matter.

In Texas it appeared to him that the group who had financed KENNEDY's

murder had had a deep seated quarrel and had fallen into two

groups.

Some details

regarding

this affair have come to light and

it is

seriously being

considered to bring them to the public via

a television broadcast.

-332 1 5) From undenitifed source

---

## Page 5

13-00000

-A• fiee-lancen ; ounnabst coverenn the ihiled Nalions; Main.

tanied clese cgutacE willi snriet Pilaon depemali, incudung

Cubaus: DiR 63997, 13.4.63.

pecai as idenino ti ae ea e te chion earg

in wasliencon retusech te list orímans as a bone-fite

fianalil".

D01- 1.6.71 0. visited UISR for uitavieed wits Dzberman

milker,lorieti Gvistian

19763 -141-348099

3. lu 7x)

20-6

---

