# 104-10506-10027

## Page 1

104-10506-10027

SECRET

April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Possible Identity of the "Unidentified Man.

Photographed in Mexico City in October 1963

REFERENCES: A. Photos. Taken in Mexico City by Mexico City

Station.

B. Paperback' Bool "Appointment in Dallas"

C. Soit File: Headquarters

Infornation on

Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALIV, Possible

"Unidentified Man"

1. Photographs of the unidentified man were taken ky

our Mexico City Station on 2,3,4, and 15 October 1963, going

into or coming out of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in

Mexico City. Copies

were provided to the FBI in Dallas.

Texas on 22 November 1963. Although cropped copies have

appeared in various works, including Volume XX, page 691, of

the Warren Commission Report, and the book "Appointment in

Dallas"

, to our knowledge the individual has never been

identified.

2. On 17 March 1977, a former member of the Cuban General

Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) recognized photographs of

the unidentifid man as Yuri LNU. a KGR officer, whom he met

in Moscow in 1964 while attending an intelligence course

there.

He said that furi, a fluent English and Spanish

speaker, was acting as a trouble shooter for the Cuban groun.

about 15, attending the course. Juri lived with

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 2 -

the Cuban and Bulgarian groups quartered in the same bulding

in Moscow. Any time the Cubans had a problem, Yuri would solve

it for them. Yuri was a good friend of Juan (pseudo) a KGB

officer who taught the Cubans about the Agency (CIA) and the

West German intelligence apparatus. Juan told the DGI member

that he had served in Mexico for about 20 years and in the U.s.

clandestinely for about 10 years (specific dates unknown). Yuri

was entrusted with their welfare only, and did not attend classes

with the Cuban group:

3. SE/X travel records were reviewed in search of an

individual by the name of Yuri who possibly fit the description

LES:

of the unidentified man. This lead to an individual by the

name of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, a Soviet, reportedly a Doctor

of Medical Sciences, who has participated in international

scientific conferences for

the USSR since 1962 or earlier.

Although there is no official 201 file on MOSKALEV, there is a

sizable dossier on him in the Central Reference Service. Many

of the documents

in his dossier are 00 reports from U.S.

scientists concerning MOSKALEV's attendance and behavior at

scientific meetings. It is obvious that he has a much greater

knowledge of the English language than he admits.

His capability

is said to improve greatly after a

few drinks;

however. it is

noted that

he rarely, if ever, drank at the scientific meetings.

It is also noted that on

occasions he reportedly was not

qualified to represent the Soviets at

a particular conference.

His papers rarely, if ever, were specific, or presented new data.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

.. -

Pollowing are items

ol intorest from solecled documents in

MOSKALEV'S CRS dossier:

a .

In 1961 PENKOVSKY identified a photo (with no

name provided) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich NOSKALEVSKIY,

Air Force Col.and GRU officer in the Information Directorate

of the GRU.

b. In December 1963 the FBI reported that Vladimir

Ivanovich BUBNOV, an attache at the Soviet Mission to the U.N.

and a GRU employee (described as a courier and greeter), met

Prof. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. of the Institute of Biophysics

in Moscow, and Prof. Viktor Ivanaich IVANOV of the Moscow Physical-

Technical Institute, at New York International Airport sometime

in October 1963, in a plane arriving from Europe. MOSKALEV and

IVANOV reportedly were not known to BUBNOV, Because of the

circumstances surrounding the meeting, however, the informant was

convinced that both MOSKALEV and IVANOV were GRU agents. They

were in the U.S. to visit the Brookhaven National Laboratory,

Long Island.

c. In October 1963 MOSKALEV was a delegate to the

TAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island,

New York.

Described by U.S. scientists as very sharp, MOSKALEV

was a frequent commentator on other people's work and made

a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to

radiation lethality.

d. In October 1967 MOSKALEY participated in the Second

International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio

Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early.

He

---

## Page 4

13-00000

his knowledge of the boglish language le get along on his ow.

Although he complained about not Inowing much English. he

admitted writing the English version of the paper he presented.

MOSKALEV at empted to make propaganda of a paper by a West

German scientist. A respected U.S: scientist said he fran'-ly

did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. MOSKALEV took copious

notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was

going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera.

From questions MOSKALEV

asked, it was obvious that he "new

English quite well. Although considerable time was spent

arranging for MOSKALEV to visit a U.S. laboratory en route to

his home, he took a different route, without telling anyone

of his plans, and did not visit the lak. The BUFNOV cited

in para 3b. who met MOSKALEV entered the GRU in September

1960; gradnated from the Chemical War'are Academy (specialized

in chemical warfare); was assigned to the U.N. in New York

From 1962 to 66; and as

Second Secretary of Soviet Embassy,

Wash., D.C. from April 1969 to April 1974. According to FBI

reporting, BUBNOV was the Soviet handler in a double agent

operation during his previous Washington tour. IN May 1972

BUBNOV wanted classified USAF documents.. Also, in May 72 an

FBI source placed a package in Fairfax County containing

undeveloped. classified U.S. military documents: 35 mm.

QUESTION? Could that 35 mm film have been

tal-en by MOSKALEV?/

e. In August 1971 the U.S. Embassy in Moscow reported

a visit to the Embassy on 16 August of Dr. Sutherland, a

geologist, who sought advice concerning the troubling

behavior toward him of certain USSR Academy of Sciences

officials.

Sutherland arrived in Moscow on 15 August 1971

---

## Page 5

13-00000

- 5 -

and contacted uriy MoSKALEV in the Forcien Relations

Department.. MOSKALEV had L previously? visited Sutherland

to clear up some confusion concerning Sutherland's travel

arrangements to Novosibirsk, MOSKALEV said that a colleague

from the Foreign Relations Section would visit Sutherland.

Sutherland was visited by

a man who

identified himself

as a

"linguist", rather than a

scientist,

and

ast-ed if

Sutibrland

had any non-scientific books with him.

There

was

quite an

exchange. The Embassy report commented

that

the incident

appeared toabe a bypical bit of KGB hanky-panky.

f. 12. May 1973 information from the U.S. Embassy

files Moscow, reported that Yuriy Iosifovich (sic) MOSKALEV.

was probably head of the American Section. Foreign Relations.

Department

of Sciences and

possibly KGB. There is some

indication that he tried via inducements to get a dual

national, Soviet wife of a U.S. scientist. to remain in the USSR.

4. On 23 March 1977 several identification experts of

the Disguise and Identification Section of OTS/GAD compared

photos of the unidentified man with photos of

Niax

Yuriy

Ivanovich MOSKALEV from the FBI,

and CRS.

It was their opinion

that MOSKALEV could very likely ke

identifiable with the unidentified man.

5. Page 59 of the book "Appointment in Dallas." shows an

Identi-Kit Model composite of

individual who told the

author in London

in 1972 that he

was involved

in

the

assassination

of

President Kennedy. The composite of that individual (code

name "Saul"), whose real name

is

unknown

to the

author, bears

a striking

resemblance to the photos

of

Yuriv

Ivanovich

MOSKALEV.

According

the author "Saul"identified

the

picture shown

in the Warren Commission Exhilit #237

as

having been taken at the Russian Embassy

in

Mexico City,

either in the foyer or just outside.

Kac

---

## Page 6

13-00000

- 6 -

6. The author of the aforementioned book, Hugh C. McDonald,

is the inventor of the Identi-kit and at one time was under

contract to CIA in regard to the Identi-Kit. McDonald claims

in his book that he met "Saul" at an office in CIA Headquerters

sometime after the Bay of Pigs invasion, and that a colleague

of McDonald told him that "Saul" was an assassin.

7. There are striking

parallels between the backgrounds

of "Saul" as given in McDonald's book, and MOSKALEV. For example:

"Saul"

Pg. 7 - CIA allegedly knew

of Saul. McDonald said he first

met Saul in CIA Has. CIA took

picture of Saul that started

McDonald's investigation.

MOSKAL EV

According to Office of Security,

McDonald has been in touch with

CIA in relation to his Identi-Kit.

His 201-853047 states he was a

cleared source of LAFO/DCS - doi

September 1969. (contract agent)

It is true that

• Mexico City

Station

took photos of "Saul" that McDonald

claimed started his investigation.

PE. 59 -

See Identi-Kit

composite of "Saul".

CDH comment: See photos of

Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. He

bears striking resemblance to

"Saul."

Pg. 60/61 - McDonald states it

was obvious that FBI and CIA

were compromised at the very

top since both Agencies denied

knowledge of "Saul". Noone wanted

te hear

anymore about him

Helms, the DDP testified under oath

that he didn't know "Saul."

---

## Page 7

13-00000

6: 69 - MeDenald deran dis senrela

of "Saul" in 1970. It began, he

said, with a call from an uniden

tified woman. who arranged a meeting

in London and told him she believed

the Russians had a germ warfare

installation in Vozrozdenya, in

the Aral Sea. lcDonald obtained

CIA approval to make contact.

Pg. 70 - In Germany in 1945

McDonald knew of 12 people

(Poles, Czechs, Rumanians,

Germans, Scandinavians, 2 Russians)

who feared and hated Russia.

They

formed org. to observe, analyze,

and report all future activities

within Russia and Russia sphere

of control. Most had legitimate

jobs.

Pg. 71 - 24 Sept 70 McDonald

left for London with "Saul's"

picture. McDonald said both he

and Saul were contract men

for

CIA. Saul did dangerous jobs

for private interests.

Pg. 73 - McDonald learned that on

Island of Vozrozdenya, Aral Sea:

germ warfare was being planned

against U.S. (Russians transmit

germs in ict streams!.

Note

'KALEV's scientific

background and travel.

He was in the U.K. in 68,70,

71 and 72. Background is

biophysics. MOSKALEV's

(GRU)

contact BUBNOV/"specialized

in chemical warfare".

MOSKALEV was allegedly

imprisoned during war because

of his German

descent or for

black market dealings. Could

he be a double agent?

McDonald

met Saul in London

July 72. MOSKALEV travel shows

him in London Nov 72.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

-8-

P5. 75 - McDonald showed photo

of Saul to man. Man asked if

McDonald's interest had to do

with murder of Pres. in 1963.

McDonald said no, he wanted to

talk to him (Saul) on business

Pg. 76 - By now McDonald was

sure that "Saul" was reasonably

well-known in highly specialized

MOSKALEV is known in internationa!

circules on the European continent. circles as scientist.

Pg. 81 - MoDonald says that

co-relation between activity

on Vozrozdenya and new types of

influenza in U.S. is disturbingly

exact.

Pg. 92. - Man told McDonald

in summer of 1970 on outskirts

of Gormisch, that he was dying

from radiation sickness. He was

flown to Vozrozdenya where he was

lead to believe there

was hospital

MOSKALEV was delegate to 2nd

International Congress on

Radiation Protection, Brighton,

U.K. 3-8 May 70.

that specialized in cases of

radiation sickness

and he would

be looked after by famous doctors.

Was interviewed by 3 Russian

specialists: Emile KROPTATE

Peter GORSACH

Marion LENTZEN

---

## Page 9

13-00000

- 9-

Pg. 95 - At hospital ta was

orderly by name of Ivan. There

were other young interns,

orderlies, etc., there.

Pg. 99 - Some momths before

Kennedy was killed, an inquiry

was being circulated, about

this man

(Saul). Someone wanted

to contact him. Word went out that.

someone needed his services.

Pg. 109 - An alleged

former

(McDonald called Kimsey)

Agency employee/said the

scheme which "Saul" described

I to kill the president/

could not possibly have been

activated without help from

very high places in this country.

(U.S.)

Pg. 117 - Saul did not know

he

was being called Saul.

Pg- 119 - Saul told Kimsey

that

he often used limp as part of

his disguises.

Pg- 120 - In Zurick in 1972

McDonald saw four men. Three

Arabic and one who had a blunt,

Slavic fact with a broad-typed

nose, about 40.

MOSKALEV's middle name is

Ivanovich; so is BUBNOV's .

Could this have been MOSKALEV?

---

## Page 10

13-00000

P5• 121 - Kinsey felt that Saul

was a middle-European, so probably

grew up with German as second

language. Saul spoke English

like an American.

Pg. 143 - "Saul'' said he came

back to the U.S. for a short period

one time, lived in Southern

Calif. for about

a month, or

six weeks, then moved to Mexico.

Said business was good in Mexico,

and that made it easy, of easier,

to try to make

contact with whoever

was trying to make contact with

him.

PE: 164 - "Saul"

said a contact he

namedTroit would have OSWALD in

Mexico City 26 Sept to 3 Oct.

and that OSWALD would call on

both the Cuban Consul and Soviet

Consud.

"Saul" said he did nod have a

photo of OSWALD but had a contact

in the Soviet Embassy would do

the job (identify OSWALD) for him.

Saul said

OSWALD did show up in

Mexico City and was fingered to

him. He sat cloe to him

in

restaurans and

cafeterias.

MOSKAi.EV has much greater

knowledge of English than

he pretends or admits.

knew/ According to our records,

OSWALD was in Mexico City

between those dates, and was in

contact with the Cuban and Soviet

Consuls.

---

## Page 11

13-00.000

- 11-

Page 167:

"Saul" said he left

for the U.S. in Nov 1963 but would

not say how of where he crossed

the border:. On evening of the

20th of Nov he was in Dallas.

McDonald said that as a professional

assassin with international clientel,

"Saul" had to master the art of

crossing borders illegally, so that

i no record is kept. False passports

are easiest methods.

Page 177:

"Saul" desccibed how

he shot President Kennedy from

2nd story window of County

Records Bldg.,

Page 178:

"Saul" said that he

used "limp" disguise" out of

bldg.; and in 2 hours was out

i.of

the U.S.

Could "Saul" be mystermy man who

boarded plane for Havana? See

DIRECTOR 36054. Flight from Mexico

City reportedly delayed from 1700 to

2200 hours for passenger who arrived

at 2130.

Page 182: McDonald remembers

"Saul's" statement that long

before the Warren Commission

even

existed he had been told thit

there was

a possibility that

such a bullet would be planted

to tie in OSWALD's rifle positively

to the shooting.

It therefore appears that the mere

existence of CE No. 399 tends

to prove the accuracy of "Saul"s

statement and

the presence of a

conspiracy.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Pare 185: MaDonald a le Motiones

"Saul" was telling true story.

Page 94: McDonald finds buck

passing so pervasive that he

cannot escape suspicion of a continued

and officially backed cover-up.

Page 199:

McDonald said he thinks

Herman KIMSEY (what was true name?)

was the mentor or contact for

• "Saul"

wherever Saul worked with the

Agency.

Page 203:

"Saul" moves from

country to country, avoiding

the

U.S. except in extremis but

keeping in touch with his contacts

in Guatemala and Mexico. He

calls THEM. Spends much time in.

Europe. Has no wife, children,

friends. Is voracious reader.

or

Page 204:

"Saul" went into

Westbury Hotel without a tie.

Page 205:

"Saul"

had recently

given up snoking (1972?) but

still had nicotine stains on fingers.

CDu - I do too.

Can we identify KIMSEY?

Was

he really working for Agency?

Does MOSKALEV smoke?

Chris Hopkins

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

