# 104-10161-10141

## Page 1

104-10161-10141 -

SEGACT

PRi, Part I

The following 1s a brief blographle sketch on Subject who 18 8

naturalized American citizen currently residing in Habans, Cuba:

Faro

• EEm1IIO AMeriCO RODRIGUEZ] O3

Date of Birth

*E27 Jamuary 1928} 09

Placo of Birth

8 Habana, Cube

Bationality

8 Anorican (naturalized Fovenber 1949)

Feraanent Addrosa: (Route 2, Box 500, Edentong Do Ca.

Bus10058 Address 1 Centro Aoturiano 505, 353 Zuluota St., Habana

Temporary Address&

Education

Language

kork Experience

labana, Cube

088 Calegio de la Sallel, Habana, Cuba

Alcoa forther High School, dew Orleans Lo

Receired Bachelor of Science and Master of Arte

Degree from Tulass University, How Orleans.

Undergraduate horks Scientiflo Medieine Progran,

majoring In Psychology and minering in Blalogy

and Chenistry.

creduate works the tumanitles, majoring 1n

Linguistics and Literature. Lacke one year

to complete work on Ph.D.

Subject is equally fluent in English and Spanish

end has a knouledge of French, Portuguese and

Itellan.

8 During the period 1948-54, Subject was amployed

in the USA for the purpose se providing auditione

ncowe unile attending lulane.

Siace April 1954

Subject has been emplojid In Habana as Assistent

District Manager of the Habana Distriot Sales

OffIce (representatives) for Apploton Electric Co.,

Arrow lart & legenan Ilectric, Century Electrie,

Fubbard & Co., Hubbard Murimam Products, end The

Oxonito Company? In this capacity he has been

diroctly responsible for all businese operations

of these compantes throughout the territory of

Cube.

SECRET

19Rs

---

## Page 2

14-09800

Other Data

Fan11g

Due to the economic and political situation pra

vailing in Cuba and present restrictions on Inerted

goods, Subject 18 considering tho adrisability of

making e change whoreby be can Improve his present

standing an future potentlalities in accordance

sith his educational quellfieations and proven er

poriences. He 1s interosted In working direct for

an Averieon Company, either at hone or abroad, with

starting base salary of about $22,000 a yaar.

Subjoct le married to an Averican and has four

childres. Ris brother la a US citizen residing in

Now Orleans, and although his peronts are citizens

or Cuba they maintain a roulence in lew Orleans.

---

