# 104-10104-10243

## Page 1

104-0104-10243

UNCLASSIFIED

L

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

IDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

CA/PEG|

buildingficer designation, room number, and

T.

C/CA/PEG

2.

3.

4.

5.

OGC - 7-D-01

1277

KHC

JKG

DATE

EXTENSION

7132

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

11 May 1967

OMMENTS (Number each comment to show from who

• whom. Draw a line across column after each commen

06C67-0921

6.

7.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

• I USE PREVIOU

DITION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

06-47-0921

11 May 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Alleged CIA Involvement with Oswald

lo Testerday evening Mr. Clarence Martle, an acqunintance of

minu In A.J.D. (where be handles Congresslonnl Llluon) dropped off

the attached letter and elipping from the New Orleans States-Item at

my house while I was out.

2. Martin lo from New Orleans and has on past occasiona voiced

• healthy contempt for Garrison and his shenanigans. This feeling was

undoubtedly shared by hle logal frload who, judging by thie letter, now

appeare to have second thoughta.

/s/

CA/PEG

Attachments:

As stated, para 1

Distributon tht

Orig. • CA/PEG File, w/lotter att. only

1 - A/DCI/J. C. Goodwin, »/two atte.

1- OGC, w/lotter att. only

1 - DC/CA, #/letter att. only

1- CA/PEQ Chrono, »/letter att. only

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

heres

.. HUNTER D. MARKS, JR.

LOUIS

. CLAVERIE

ASHTON

NOHN

M.

PHELPS

# 10B

BAREWELL

4 кd.4

IN BAm.

WINSTON

WEINMANN

1. 001

W.

ADON

PALT. 41l

CHARLES

AI. LANIER

ENT

5-299.

PHE-

S, DUNBAR, MARKS, CLAVER

COUNSELLORSATLAW

HIBERNIA BANK

BUILDING

NEW ORLEANS 70112

• SIMS

May

5, 1967

машит в. неомом. н.

RICHARD С. BROWN.

JAMIE N. ROUSBEL

HOWARD I. GAY

THEODORE Q. DIMITRY

PHILD IOV. CLAVERI

TUGEA R.

ROWIN A. LEONON

NAMES MANEMANN, IN.

AIR MAIL

Mr. Clarence J. Martin

60i4 Fort Hunt Road

Alexandria, Virginia

Dear Clarence:

I am enclosing headline copyright story

which appeared in the afternoon States. I have

absolutely no inside information as I have not

even talked with George W. Healy, Jr., or anybody

else with the paper about the Kennedy Assassination

probe in a number of weeks. However, I know how

superconservative the paper 18 and I think 1t 13

extremely significant that the powers that be. are

willing to go this far. From original skepulsism,

many people around town are beginning to think J1m

miz.it have

something. In any event, I don't believe

the c.i

•A. can play ostrich much longer.

LAMOND PELTS (DI-0EO

CHAPLES E. DUNBAR, JR. 1010-1000

CABLE ADORESE

NOWSPENCER.

Sincerely,

Charles E.

Dunbar, III

6/6

Encl.

---

## Page 4

DATE 3/2/93

LOST/MISSING MATERIAL

THE DOCUMENT OR PAGE(S) LISTED BELOW WAS/WERE MISSING

DURING THE DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW BY THE HISTORICAL

REVIEW GROUP, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE.

DOCUMENT NO.

DATED: -

OR

PAGE(S) Whatever newspaper article was

attached to

persial lette, here,

FROM:

CIA JOB NO., -

BOX No. Box 37

FOLDER NO. 12

---

