# 104-10186-10078

## Page 1

104-10186-10078

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE. AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Ramon INO (alias "Efrain")

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CSCI-316/00606-65

9 February 1965

NO: PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

nAce a lashington

D. C.

RETUAN TO CLA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

DATE ACQ.

January 1964

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION. BOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE. APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquartors Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first chocking with this Agency.

cent on in is6t

Headquartors Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no Identifiable information

on Ramon

5

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

losta to 8 do une sorte

STATE

DIA

REP

ARMY.

CINCLANT

NAVY

CINCSO #

I AIR

I&NS

INSA

TFBI 2

(Noto: Plold dietribution odiceted dy "'#"1

SINTORMATION RERO RT INFORMATION RERORT

UFGA 19083(16Dec6i

MI/SA/EORI

_CILLIA

LX 1510; UFGA19

AILSA MOB LINEA

2 CLIRIA

HELLSAR

NO PROJECT (AWMU

LAH/SAICI

LEASHI

(14 Jan 65)

RID/AX

CSCI-316/00605-

MILAVE

RELEAING

TOTALS WHI/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

BEs

1r.

---

