# 104-10186-10167

## Page 1

104-10186-10167

5

2

ATIONSREPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

arac

A BUIAMINION DE TITANLOS O TAS IS NIT INNIES DO NI UNANTINO PARATE A PRODIDIAO LE LA

SECABT

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY CUbA

SUNECT "JAYRA" (an alias)

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/01256-65

DATE DISTR

18 March 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 1l)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO.

1964

PLACE &

lashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. MATCh 1965

FELD REPORT NO.

TNS B3 UNEVAIL'ATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE CRANINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

RETURN TO CIA

The following report 1s one of a series containing personalityRo Not Reproduce

Information provided

the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

Background Use Only.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checsing with this Agency.

I. "MATRA" 1s the secretary of Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, chief

of the MI Section (The Department of Technical Operational

Support) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General

Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

"MAYRA, " whom source believes to be a Cuban citizen,

was born berween 1940 and 1945, is about five feet eight

has a shite conplexion

approximately 120 poundsblond hair, and

and has a thin build.

small, straight nose; a small chin

mouth;ja thin lace and

thịn lips; & long, thin neck; and even

Headquarters Comment

The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

information on

"MAYRA. "

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP I

netorched to as one

+4+094081

2

1

STATE

REP

CINCLINT

NAVY

CINCSO #

d/₽

IANS

ASA

XXXX

1 OCE

|FBI 2

(Nate: Fueld si

INFORMATIONARE BORT MINFORMATION REPORT

5 R

I CI/LIA

mave

WHIC ER

ILLE

LX 2515

CI/R&A

SILE

NO PROJECT 9009•1

*CSCI 316/01256-65

BID/AY

4/BR

TOTAL AH. C S il). VEl (1), CI 4, RID 1

61418044

3S: LD:sw

---

