# 104-10172-10225

## Page 1

104-10172-10225

- UNCLASSIFIEO

INTERNAL

•*E ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE

CONFIDENTIAL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

SUNECT: 10599001

FROM.

Deputy Chief, VE

for the Rritish Commonwealth

DATE

1 PORWARO!

ERASION

7220

FATALE

Dart

17 July 1963

do tve Sa no to came on at on to son man

1.

C/SR (5$48)

SRCI/K

The attached is, of course,

based on conversations prior

to the recent press publicity

concerning AELADLE's presence

in the U.K.

03

(CH lau seen)

for AELADLE i

201

10.

12.

13.

16.

15.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLI

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

17 July 1963

KHORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI

SUBJECT:

06

06, 08

1. Carts)statod that ADLAdlE bas "settled in" very well

In the U.K. and that his current atiltude 1a good To date

London and bas been somewhat dissatisfied since they have been

travelllag about "the provinces" and living in the country.

During the firet week la July ASLADLE began his first

"pork" sloce his arrival in the u.l.

Ho has been preparing

his analysis of and "conclusiona"

During this portod he has been ardaartly seen hel

on the Penkoyaky case. 14,08

AKkAil, accarding to L

controiled Soviet arent frot

29 paper to support ala views.

According to

Jand 06, 29

Twere letting ALLADLE got illa out of his systen before

pushing hia on other matters.

06,06

According to both Martin and

JAELADLE 1E A

very voracious reader of the Britiah press

and has been

lowlag recent events in the security fleld with a great

or interest fad attention.

4. Matia feels that ASLADLE realizes

that in the U.f.

he 15 *closer to the front lines in a security sense" and is

therefore nore amenable to discipline over hin activities and

movements. In addition, ALLADLE apparcotly already realizes

that london is partially "in the provinces" in the world scene

and that he was mich closer to the center of world events while

near lashington.

3. ABLADLE, according to Martin?

1s already thinking

about & possible roturn visit to the

U. 8.0 sometime in the fall*

and has on several occasions asked Martin)rhat he thought his

roception would be in Washington,dartin belleves that AiLal

realizes he burned quite a few of his bridges through bla

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

altitude and actions prior to his departure from the U.8.

ASLADLE has sald that he hopod the

"past could be forgotten"

and is antlous that there would be no reference to past

articulties 1l and moon de cane to the U.S. for a vialt.

According to MartIn ALADLE 18 not eager for sur-

Incing at the present tlae.

He also commented that ho

hoped in his future "work" that one subiect could be fully

covered before unifting to another.

Apparently he considered

the past system a

"hit and miss" nethod shich was sometimes

confusing and disconcerting.

and are kopt la a sale in (Martin° personal offico.

03

Deputy Chies, ME

for the British Connonwealth

CC:

C/BR

DD/P

-2-

SEGRET

EYES GIRLY

4/PV

---

