# 104-10132-10126

## Page 1

104-10132-10126

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLAS

CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

i MAME AND ADDRESS *

A INITIALS

MR. WINTERS

SR.S

So stan

422-3-681

Rk

S

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Captain Donovan had been contacted at

Andrews A.F.B. by Jerry O'Leary, also a Marine

Reservist, on the afternoon of Sunday, I December

1963. Mr. Sollo, SRS, was verbally informed of

this contact by NSO Moretti at 0900 hours on

2 December 1963.

* O'Lary is a Star Staff winter

пBз.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

chib, shame

& Secdul Branch

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

•Use previous editions

r..'....

DATE

3De063

SECRET

(40)

• U.S. GOVERMMENT PELES OREST : 1981 0- 987282

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS

ATION TOP AND BOTTON

UNCLASSIFIED

CUNFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRES

TE

Hro Winterg'

SECRET

HITIALS

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT. REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Remarks:

Story like in

The ti

spal

PREPARE REPLY 2

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN L

SIGNATURE Y

Chief, Building security. branch

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

"."-I--61

-9-610. 237

Use previous editions

-Dec.

SECRET

• (40)

A PENS ONCE: 19010-907282

---

## Page 3

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

When F(led In)

FROM:

INCIDENT REPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE _ 1 December 1963

TIME-

1030

NAME -

John E. Donovan

2009 Belmont Rd. N. Wo

Washington %, Do Co

INCIDENT Telephone call

- GRADE -

N/A

Tele: 332-7717

TIME 0931

OFFICE _

N/A

PLACE Washington, Do Co

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he new and worked with

Lee Harvey Oswald for a nine nonth period while fulfilling his military

obligation in the Spring, Sunmer and Fall of 1959. Donovan advised he may

possibly be of assistance in providing names and etc. of Oswalds intimate

acquaintances during that period. Subject further advised that he has not

discussed his knowledge of Oswald with the FBI or the Secret Service as of this

Donovan is presently attending Georgetown University while teaching at

Ascension Academy•

He may be contacted any evening after 6:00 P.M. at the

above address. Donovan related that he is a former FBI employee having worked

there Irom June 1953 to 1956. It is also noted that advance knowledge of this

call was received from NSO John Moretti and Major A. F. Boland, Ageney employees,

who are both members of Capt. John E. Donovan's USMCR unite

ACTION TAKEN:

Contacted Charlie Kane, OS, who requested that this report

be prepared and submitted so that the lead may be turned

over to the FBI through official channels.

Docuffent Number

1260-1033

for FOlA Review on FEB. 1977

-1a.

03

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy C/SRS

FoRM 1798

CONFIDENTIAL

(96)

---

