# 104-10406-10176

## Page 1

110410406-1076]

de. cioritie, 06.

DAT-ANTE GURNE, CALP.

=191.9.4.44.193.

MIR-SIT. C349

(252; 2331526.

Salec: Committee on Assassinations

Wo. Mouse ci depresenianoce

333: #CUSE CFFICE BUILDING. A'NIX:

"'ASHiNGTON, D.C. 200:3

April E. 1978

Ms. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the legislative Counsel

Central Incelligence agency

Washington, D. C.

77-1455

Dea li. Carpertiez:

In connection with its investigation into the ciroun

stances surrounding

the death of President Kennedy,

ths Selec=

Committee on Assassinations requests access to

=11

files and

file references pertaining to the following individuals:

1) Edward Jay Eastein

200

Marvin Kanto

3) Charlotte Bustos

4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Committes itr essess to

the following information:

5)

Any anglall investigative reports prepared by E.

howard Hunt pertaining to the John f.

Kennedy

assas-

sination.

These reports were not necessarily pre-

pared during the period

of Me. Hunt's employment

with the CIA).

6)

The file that

was prepared by the Cir in reference to

E. Howard Hunt's alleged Fatergate recured activities.

previously requested access to all CiA files

pertaining to E. Howard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

However, Roger Cabrielson, of your staif, has requested

the particular reguests identified above, be put ir writing.

The Committee wouid also appreciate a resporse from the

CIA regarding the following matters:

086.63

.. " on.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Patrick Carpo-tier

April 5, 1978

Püge 2

7)

Vice CIA's written staterent replying to she Committea's

request of February 21,

1979 {02

ar

anananation of the

¡ criteria that governed the ogening ca

& 202 Zile du=-

the years

1958-54 was not rascorsiva

our inguzry

because

the CIA's Witten statement die rot

focus

on tre

relevant time perios.

in zenering

Out.

request of february

sherz

here no criteria governing the openings such files

curing that period, the Committee mould eppreciate a

written

statement indicating that this was the case

8)

CIa document #563-810 indicates that shara ana 37 docu-

ments that should ba da dee need one 201 211e

out which are missing from the

document also

Furthermore,

indicates that there should be a nachine

listing of these documents attached as nart of document

2563-910, but

liszing appears

Select Committee on Assassinations ag-asts

ther the

CIA provide a listing of such documerts as fall as a

written explaration of where those docurants are 10-

why they do noc appeas in assalá's 201 Eila.

Pursuant to my letter of Decerber 27,

1977, I would lie

to note that the document referred to in this paragraph

is a classified document.

9)

Ater having reviewed both the document foontained in

the Bia's files on Priscilla Johnson va

materials that were Independently made

the Privacy Act, it is apparent that

the files

which were nada

available to the Continee and sot ta-

clude HTLINGUAL materials. As the Committee has

aiready requested

on the individuals wo

requests, please review the files that you have pre-

viously made available

ing that all of the information pertaininero ibe

individuais involved nas, in last, seen aroviden

/ O. Finally, the.Committee would like to intantiam all persons

A vino

served as case officers in the

soviet Russian Division of

156 as well as tauchetist

Station" for the perios

1963 theoron February

of Station

and Deputy Chies(s) of

Station for that period.

The Committee requests chat the cIa.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

2=.

20r1l

Page. 3

Patrick Carpentier

5, 1978

either make these parsons availabie for our

staid to intervien

or provide

their

last kroir

address

so that we car contact

then

directly.

Thank you for your continuing cooperatio..

Sincerely,

1 Nob Bling

G. Robert Blarey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: Sid

---

