# 104-10124-10048

## Page 1

104-10124-10048

:=

FILE

TRAVEL ORDER

ti'e

OFFICE PHONE

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

OMER A CENT SYMBOL

2-1101-10

GRADE AND SALARI

TITIS

216.3

OFFICIAL STATION

25-13

uthorized to

travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with

Agency Regulations.

"I'VERARY

vashingtos, Do to te

15-20

Jard rach otter points in tle Ve - F%

In such order

ărd fros

of aurrosinatoly 29 days and upon completion of assigned miscion, tatura to

FUENOSE

Hackershyat

SPECIAL PROVSIONS INQUDE APPROPR

TE JUSIFICARONS

Lxcess bagrage for official equipmat no to excood 100 1bs. authoriced.

(pore lonel expenses not to exceed $100.99 cuttorised.

Exploree vill travel ander D40 cover.

Request upa arrance for necoscary

docusentation.

ZUTHORIZED PER DIEM

Marima por cion allovence la onchoráred in eccordesce with

Agassy Fogiletless.

Adrance of Fonda de authorized

CODEDINATION, AS REQUIRED (TO BE EFFECTED BY ORIGINATING OFFICE)

1 OTHER OPERATIONAL AREAS

ADVANCE OF FUNDS IS AUTHORIZED.

15463

TRAVEL TO BEGIN ON OR ABOUT

TERMINATINO GET SXIMATELY

MODE OF TRAVE ISPOND 1956

Il taçan, 1955

THEATER CLEARANCE (IF ORTAINABLE)

ESTINATED COST OF TRAVEL

$

CERTIFICATION

BY PRSCESSING F- 5133,02

Certified & True Copy. Signed

copy on file in Central Process-

ing Branch. Reviewed. No change

necessary. Amended as indicated.

¡ (A)

(B)

CENTS PER MILE, NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER

CENTS PER MILE, AS BEINO MORE ADVANT-GEOUS TO THE GOVERNAMENT

THE CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION INDICATED IS EFFECTED IN THE INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

IN CONNECTION WITH CHANGE OF STATION, YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRANSPORT YOUR IMMEDIATE FAMILY, YOUR HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS, SUBJECI

10 WEIGHT LIMITS, RESTRICTIONS AND PROVISIONS AS SET FORTH IN AGENCY REGULATIONS.

TRAVEL TO FIRST POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSCORBATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOID GOODS, PERSONAL EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

IS AUTHORIZED.

.. IS AUTHORIZED.

HETURN FROM POST OF DUTY ABROAD, INCLUDING EXPENSES OF TRANSPORTATION OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, HOUSEHOLD GOODS, PEPSONA! EFFECTS AND AUTOMOBILE,

CATH

DAISY LAG

DEPENDENTS TO TRAVEL WITH EMPLOYEE"":

I DELICENTS TO TAVEL WAHIN ONE YERE CAGE LOVE

"ENROEAKY DUTY.

AND TITLE OF AUTMORIZING OFFICIAL TYPE

TURE OF AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

Tir 51

76:23X

:3

1:53

•9751

1=0.

33-27

---

