# 104-10123-10043

## Page 1

104-10123-10043

VIA:

AIR

(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA TOUCH)

SECRET KAPOR

CLASSIFICATION

TO

: Chief, We

Attn:

Robert A. Winnett

FROM : Chief of Station,

715-6

SUBJECT: GENERAL- SYNCHRONY)

SPECIFIC-

Hede #MASSING

22

REFERENCE:

(ONHA) 13764, 19 September 1958

DISPATCH NO (UNTiA) 13860

Has. rile so. 6128-16/4

Field File No. 20-21

DATE: _ 3 October 1958

INFOS

COS,

15-13

Attn:

Edward

Po lavel

1. Subject arrived with lavell from Frankfurt on schedule and

contacted Fag and leppiel who arranged for a meeting with SYPA- o/

THER/50)on 25 September and a meeting with (SYMPATHIZUR/12) on

26. September.

2.

sINg and levelt outlined their plans for the research

project which is mentioned in reference correspondence and which will

apparently be the subject of discussion in Headquarters when virs.

MASSING is in Vashinzton in the near future. The (SIPATTER dis-

cussed in some detail the possibilities of acquiring inforuation of

interest to them in the (SYNCHRONY project by using this research

project as a vehicle for making contacts with persons in(

whom they have not been able to contact directly with any hope of

success.

Most of these individuals mentioned by the (SYNPATHIZEiRs)O)

are sone of the well-known subjects of (SYNCHRUNY)cases presently

living in

although a few prominent ex-communists were added

to assist irs. MASSING in getting the interviewing started in

Jif her project is approved.

3.

Pass and wappiel made it clear that this project would

would be pleased to capitalize upon it for what success it would

bring within the somewhat limited number of individuals to whom

t would give access.

done in other countries as nell aroject comprising interviewing

as it aypears to be

planned would have to be accepted by Washington as of interest to

Washington in itself® Thus, although the project is of interest

it could not be sold on that basis alone.

had to speak to Mrs. MASSING in person, although it is evident that

Can Fin

201-451

C3 COPY

FORM NO.

MAR. 1949 51-28 A

CLASSIFICATION

51-6-16

---

## Page 2

22

(ONHA) 13860

3 October 1958

Pago Two

very little, if any, new information could ever be expected to

come out of her own recollection of incidents in the paste

project is approved, however, the SYMPATITERs have promised to give

full support to it in the form of suggestions, briefings of her

on persons who should be contacted, background information, and

suggestions for likely subjects to be contacted outside of

where appropriate.

Dock17a94

/Jack I.

Fagg

Distributions

3: = WE

2

_COS/

2

5-13

515-6

1 October 1958 ahnd

5/10

---

