# 104-10120-10663

## Page 1

104-10120-10663 RAN TO LiA

Background Use Only

90

Met Reproduce.

SPECIAL ACCESS AND/OR BILLET APPROVAL

(Submit original and five copies to CIB/SR&CD)

DATE OF REQUEST

13 Julv 1973

SUBJECT'S NAME (Last, Firet, Middle)

wole Luce

20D:

SSN#

New York City

DATE OF BIRTH (DE MO YE)

POSITION

•cal 1993:

DeTNUEL Of FFLAS

ORGANIZATION

CODE

COMPONENT

SUB•D

Fresident'

Moreign Intelligence Advisory Board

TO:

CHIEF,.

CIB THRU THE APPROPRIATE APPROVING

AND

CONCURRING: OFFICERS

064-18-3052

CODES BELOW "ARE FOR CIB

USE ONLY

APPROVED

TCO/CIA

DATE.

PPROVED

APPROVED

DD/SAT

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

APPROVED

6644 Cure At/sos at

CONCUR

APPROVED

CONCUR

IT IS REQUESTED THAT

• SPECIAL ACCESS APPROVAL!

BILLET

APPROVAL

DE PANTED POR ECSUBJECT.

GRANTED FOR

SUBJECT.

PROJECTS! AND PHASE

WHERE APPLICABLE. JUSTIFICATIONS'

FOLLOwING

JENNIECE

I. joul will nose the abore clearances

an a member ol the Presidentle pore ni

intelligence Advisory Buard.

VIK

REQUESTER'S MAIL ADDRESS (Room and Building)

2022 Hqu

CIB INDEX SEARCH

TO:

CHIEF, PSD/ID 2 (For action indicated)

OTHER

(Specify)

01

TO:

C1B

CASE NO.

1110K

SUBJECT MEETS

ESTABLISHED

SECURITY CRITERIA

FOR SPECIAL

ACCESSIS)

REQUESTED

TO:

REQUESTER

5 5 22 61.13

SUBJECT HAS, BEEN APPROVED

ADVISE

CIA DATE: BRIEFED

ARRANGE WITH CIS FOR

BRIERING

SIGNATURE.

Robert E. Leidenheimer

CHIEF. Cle

DATE

al DAre (Julian) 73 112

21 Cla 7/1/3

DATE

CHIEF. CIB SIGNATURE

FORM 2018a

8 - 72

3/pd

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

(9-10-30)

---

## Page 2

TURN TO GIA

Leo Chay

SPECIAL ACCESS AND/OR BRAP APPROVE®

•(Submit original and five copies to CIB/SR&CD)

FILE WHEN INITIALED

DATE OF REQUEST

1: 721:1118

SUBJECT'S MAME (Last, Firmi, Middle)

An Lace

DATE OF BIRTH (Da MO Yr)

WHold 1903 00

ORGANIZATION

ICD:

POSITION

SSN

CODE

COMPONENT.

CODE

see adul

ory Soard

SUB-DIVISION

2624:

TO:

CIB THRU THE APPROPRIATE APPROVING AND CONCURRING OFFICERS

APPROVED

TCO/CIA

DATE

APPROVED.

15-3002

CODES BELOW ARE FOR CIB

USE: ONLY.

CODE

APPROVED

DD/ SaT

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

c/ssY o

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

38350

IT IS REQUESTED THAT LU

PROJECTS) AND PHASE WHERE APPLICABLE,

ACCESS APPROVAL E BILLET APPROVAL BE GRANTED FOR THE SUBJECTAIN THE FOLLOWING

USTIFICATION DE:

BYESFECLAL)

01

Let will teed the above clearagces as a member of the Presidcals Pureigh

Tardligence Adyleory Board!

REQUESTER'S MAIL ADDRESS (ROOM

and Buildind)

SEL.

Zioa

:IB INDEX SEARCH

Г0: CHIEF, PSD/ID 2 (For action indicated)

CORAL

51 ..

— EYEMAN

OTHER

(Specify)

"0:

CIB

CASE NO.

SUBJECT MEETS

ESTABLISHED SECURITY CRITERIA

FOR SPECIAL ACCESS(S) REQUESTED

0: REQUESTER

SIGNATURE.

Robert E. Leivonbainter.

CHIEF. CIa

• 4:

BI DATE (Julian)

PSD

10/2

DATE

DATE

SIGNATURE

DATE

SUBJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED

ADVISE CIB. DATE BRIEFED

ARRANGE WITH CIB FOR BRIEFING

CHIEF. CIB SIGNATURE

3м 2018а

12

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

A d.

(9-10-30)

---

## Page 3

RETURNTO CIA

Background deo Calyi

SPECIAL ACCESS AND/OR BILLEPOAPPROPAZOdUCE

(Submit original and five copies to CIB/sR&CD)

FILE WHEN INITIALED.

DATE OF REQUESTi

23 XV 1073

SUBJECT'S NAME (Last, Firet, Middle)

SSN

DATE OF BIRTH (DA MO YS)

POSITION

;::.

÷1.:13

ORGANIZATION

CODE

COMPONENT

CODE:

SUB- DI

accent's Forelen Intell, ence Advisory Board

TO:

CHIEF, CIB THRU THE APPROPRIATE APPROVING AND CONCURRING OFFICERS

APPROVED

TCO/CIA

DATE

APPROVED

064-18-3012

CODES

BELOW

USE ONLY

ARE

FOR CID

APPROVED

DD/S&T

DATE

CONCUR"

APPROVED

CISS/ DS.

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

CONCUR

APPROVED

CONCUR

APPROVED

DATE

CONCUR .

APPROVED

IT IS REQUESTED THAT

SPECIAL ACCESS APPROVAL

PROJECTS) AND PHASE

WHERE APPLICABLE. JUSTIFICATION:

I BULLET APPROVAL BE GRANTED FOR THE SUBJECT IN THE FOLLO

(EYESPECIAL)

nimard the store

Aditory Sicked.

Axi 6z SE

a member of the President's Foreign

REQUESTER'S MAIL ADDRESS (ROOM

and Building)

31:2

Bas

CIB. INDEX SEARCH

TO: CHIEF, PSD/ID 2 (For action indicated)

(CORAL) -

sI -

(BYEMAN-

OTHER

(Specify.)

01

TO:

CIB

CASE NO.

SUBJECT MEETS ESTABLISHED SECURITY CRITERIA

FOR SPECIAL ACCESS(S) REQUESTED

TO:

REQUESTER

SIGNATURE

Robert 2. Leicenseimer

CHIEF. CIa

BI DATE (Julian)

PSD

ID/2

DATE

DATE

SIGNATURE

DATE

SUBJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED

ADVISE

CIB DATE

BRIEFED

ARRANGE WITH CIB FOR BRIEFING

CHIEF,

CIB

SIGNATURE

FORM 2018a

USE

PREVIOUS

8•72

EDITIONS

3120

19-10-38)

---

