# 104-10179-10004

## Page 1

104-10179-10004

A A CUSSED MESSAGE

₴-E-3-457

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onig

Do Not Reproduce

ROUTING

- PI

FROM A WANT

ACTION: M:

INFO

:EF: C02: A32F/A, 3/C 2.

PAY

NOV 24 09402 60

OPERATiONAL IMMEDIATE →

IN 47233

CHE

TO

D:R

INTO (UPIM) MASH

HAVA 7000

BAST RE HAVA 6959 (IN 46545)*

1º AFTERNOON 23 NOV AMPAN-I TOLO SCORGORY FOLL STORY RE "OPERATION UNITY":

(A) IT TO BE OP. PLANNED BY MAR, MOI, DA, 3E ADY GROUP (DAVID SALVADOR'S)

AND MAR. AMPAN-I LEADER OF MAR WHICH NOT TO BE CENFUSED MAR OF PEPIN RIVERO.

(B)

EMPLOYEE CUBAN ELECTRIC, SENT

AND

TO NEW YORK (LATTER NOT IDENTICAL WITH SOURCE

OF PER WHO NEPHEW

PURPOSE DISCUSS WITH ELECTRIC BONO

AND SHARE COMPANY PLANS SABOTAGE MABANA PLANT. FIRM AGREED PAY HALF MILLION

JAS, DOLLARS TO GROUP WHICH EXECUTES OP SUCCESSFULLY.

(5) AMPAN-I CONFIRMED ROLE

AND SIX OTHER EMPLOYEES.

HOWEVER DENIED THAT HE PROVIDEO PLASTIC FOR OP SAY:NG DEMO EQUIPMENT CAME FROM

RAY GROUPe.

i/

(D) OPS TO BE iNITIATED WHEN AND IF

CONSUL NOTIFIES AMPAN-!

THAT LAUNCH AVAILABLE FOR EXFILTEATION SABOTEURS, AMPIN-2 EXPECTS CONFIRMATION

FACM OGASUL NIGHT Z3 OR Z NOY, AFTER WHICH OPS TO BE TRIGGERED THREE HOURS LATER.

(E) TO SUPPLEMENT ABOVE MAR, MAR ANT DA GROUPS WILL IMMEDIATELY GO

INTO ACTION TO BLOW ELECTRIC CABLES IN REGLA AREA SHICH FEED CURRENT TO OIL.

REFINERIES. AT SAME TIME NO: GROUP WIL: MAKE ASSASS-MATION ATTEMPT ON

CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ AT UNIV OF HABANA.

•S=C-C-R-E-!

REPRODUCTION BY CINER THAN THE ISSUING DIACE IS PROMICITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00001

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

FAlE

TO

FROM

ACTION &

INFO i

PAGE 2

IN 47233 HAVA 7000

TO

INO

(5) ALSO PREPARED BOMB 18 GASOLINE STATIONS AND GLOW CITY HALL

GUANABACOA.

2. CARLIER 23 NOI

WHO ADDED FOLL SIGNIFICANT INFO:

ALL PARTICIPATING GROUPS HAVE AGREED THAT IF ANY SINGLE GROUP ATTEMPTS TAKE

CREDIT THIS OP THOSE MAKING SUCH CLAIM WILL BE KILLED. REASON IT CALLED

"OPERATION UNITY" IS THAT CREDIT FOR ACTION TO GO TO

FRO INSIDE CUBA, OBJECTIVE

OF WHICH PROVE TO FRO MIAMI THAT PEOPLE IN CUBA REALLY CONTROL FRO AND HOPE

SIMILAR UNITY WILL BE ACHIEVED OUTSIDE.

SECOND AIM 19 FORCE MANOLO RAY INTO

FRO COMPLEX IF HE EXPECIS RECEIVE SUBSTANTIAL SUPPORT.

30. PARTICIPANTS IN OP WILL IDENTIFY SELVES AS MEMBERS OF "GRUPO COMANDO

PLINIO PRIETO."

# STATION SHARES AMPAN-I VIEW THAT OP IF SUCCESSFUL WILL 'RESULT IN

DESPERATE STRUGGLE BY CASTRO IN ORDER MAINTAIN REGIME TO INCLUDE SEVERE

REPRESSIVE MEASURES.

C/S CONMENT: "STATED. WHA

END OF MESSAGE

TOLD STATION.

•06

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy Na

300

---

