# 104-10057-10022

## Page 1

1104-10057-10022

DISPATCH

Chief, SB

RYBAT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station,

SUBJECT

AEMAKEUP

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference:

AZPA-2524, 20 May 1968

6 ser

Attached are three reports, as explained in para 2 of

Reference, on the following toplesy

Marina and Lee Harvey OSWALD

Soviet. Defectors

KLIMOY (aka GOLITSyN)

KAZNACHEYEN

wavel lers Checks (Addendum

Treat Tot

& Kenneth H. PHILBROOK

ttachments:

- Herewith

AS

stated above 2 copies each

Distribution:

2-C/SB

w/atts

Document Number

1206=438 B

for FOlA Review on FEB 19Y1

As of Nov 73 file review, these attachments

removed for &xxxx#g filing:

AEMAKEUP DEBRIEFING - Final Reports,

CIA, April-July 68,

CROSS REFERENCE TO

GROUP I - EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

AZPA 2534

5 June 1968

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

HOS FILE NUMBER

74-6-478/2

D 01317

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Marina

and Lee Harvey OSwALd

The subject of the OSWALDs was introduced into the

interrogation during a discussion about the difficulty a

Soviet citizen, who marries a foreigner, encounters in

attempting to leave the USSR if the KGB

chooses. (for some

reason not to permit the Soviet citizen to emigrate.

Subjoot stated that it goes without saying that prior to

receiving KGB's

sanction

not a single Soviet citizen,

whether

he or she is married to a foreigner, would be allowed to

leave the USSR.

Asked if the case of Marina OSWALD's departure from

the Soviet Union was typical, Subject replied that her:

departure from the Soviet Union was neither typical nor usual,

particularly in vlow of the fact that her husband, Lee Harvey

ESSE

OSWALD, was a very strange Individual. He had been in Cuba,

and then came to the Soviet Union not as a tourist, but as :

an American defector who renounced his American citizenship

and attempted to become a Russian citizen.

is unusual for an Auerican • it 1s not typical and very rare

for an American to do so, and Subject belleved that an

American doing what OSWALD did (seeking Soviet citizenship

and renouncing American oitizenship) could only do so because

he was a traitor.

In ansver to a request for his opinion regarding the

OSWALD case, Subject: said that all of his Information was based

only on what was known to everyone who read the neuspapers

after the KENNEDY assasination and on what he read in a con

densed version of the Warren Report while he was in Western'

Europe, "hen pressed for his personal opinion he said it was

a very unusual situation.

Normally a Soviet citizen (11ke

Marina) would not be allowed to leave the Soviet Union, in

fact the Sovlet authorities would try in some way to convince

the citizen not to leave.

However, if a Soviet married a

foreigner, and insisted on leaving he or she could always, as

a last resort, be refused an exit visa.

There have been

cases where a Soviet citizen married a foreigner and received

an exit visa; however, in such cases the Soviet authorities

bave conceded to the orit visa requests only because they felt

that the foreign spouse may have had some influence, and could

have created adverse publloity for the Soviet Government bad

the exit visa not been granted. This was definitely not so

in OSWALD'g case.

OSWALD could not Insist that Marina be

granted an exist

visa since he was not in a position to do so.

and consequently the Soviet authorities were not compolled to

do so unless they specifically wanted to let her go to America

with OSwALD.

When asked-to still further elaborate on his bellefs

regarding the case, Subject stated that in this case (OSWALD's),

Subject couldn't guess,

and in order to come to any kind of a

valid conclusion he would have to know something (factual).

which he doesn't. His opinion, however.

1s strictly an

opinion without any basis or fact.

He thinks that KGB was

definitoly interested in OSWALD while the latter resided in the

USSR.

To presume that OSWALD could have lived in the Soviet

Union as a simple American is excluded. Subject belloves that

ATT. 10 AZPA-2534

RIBAT SECRET

•5 June 68

@00/318

---

## Page 3

1:3:00000

RYBAT SECRUI

the KGB kept OSWALD In "their flold of vision" and

undoubtedly worked with him.

To Subject it is unthinkable

that the KGB would miss such an opportunity, since it

always considers using persons (such as OSWALD) for work

either directly in intelligence,

agent, or in any

other way "to infllot damage to the West".

Asked whether the assasination of President KENNEDY

could be considered as

"being damaging to the West", Subject

answered in the affirmative.

Subject explained that the existence of a government

such as the United States is a threat to the Soviet regime.

The United States is an example to the rest of the world

(Soviets included) that people can live, survive, and have

a higher standard of living in a democracy.

Therefore, the

Soviet Union tried, and tries, to cut the U.S. Government

down at every opportunity.

Since President KENNEDY was looked

upon by many in the Soviet Union as a popular personality.

KENNEDY's porsonal attraction further raised this feeling

that living in a democracy had its benefits, to an even higher

lovel with the general population of the Soviet Union.

When asked if it was possible that KCB could or would

over sanction such an operation (the assasination) Sabject

answered "yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHEY's) 1t could have"

KHRUSHCHSY was considered by Subject to.be an ignorant

individual who was willing to take risks and adventurous under

takings. Subject said, however, that this could never occur

under the present Soviet leadership.

Subject considered that

the decision to carry out such an operation, (the assasination)

could not have been made by the Chairman of

the KGB since be

does not possess such authority, and, therefore, could only

have been made by KHRUSECHEV himself.

Subject was asked 1f such an operation might not have

Involved a terrifie risk which could have possibly resulted

in an armed confliot between the two nations, had Soviet

involvement been proven by the Americans.

Subject felt that

even if the Americans did accuse the Soviet Government of

compllcity in the assasination, the Soviet Government would

certainly deny such an American accusation, claiming that the

Americans were using OSlAL!, a crazy man who had been in the

Soviet Union, would say that the accusation was a provocation,

and in all probability vould repudiate such American claims.

To underline his point, Subject mentioned that ever

though OSWALD was in the Soviet Union,

and was suspected

because he was in

Cuba, nothing happened and the Sovlet Union

wasn't accused by the Americans.

---

