# 104-10186-10225

## Page 1

104-10186-10225

EINFORMATON L

BORI

INFORMA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT ALOJO GARRIGA Rabasa

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

MON REPORT

CS CI-316/01840- 64

1* October

1

Background Use

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATÉ ACQ. October 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS I3 UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE,: APPRAISAL O CONTINT II TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Servico until April 1964.

Headguarters Comments

Tho following report is one of a series containing porsonality

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

nformation from the records of this Agency

It 1g requested that the addressees take no action on ang

of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first checking with this Agency.

1.

AleJO GARRIGA Rabasa is a sergeant in the police force and

is Chiel of Porsonnel of the Department of Investigation.

Sour ce

heard a rumor

that GARRIGA was arrested over a year ago and

condemmed to ten years in prison.

GARRIGA was born about 1924, is five feet nine inches tall,

170 pounds, has a big build, a fair complexion, and wears glasses.l,?

Headquarters Comments

1:

A fairly reliable source in a document dated 5 August 1959,

stated that Alejo S. GARRIGA y Rabasa was a first sergeant

and Chief of Services and Personnel in the Departamento

Tecnico de Investigaciones de la Policia Nacional Revolucionaria

(Technical Department of Investigations of the National

Revolutionary Police).

2.

First Sergeant Alejo GARRICA y Rabasa was identified by a

usually rcliable source on 17 May 1961 as the Departamento

Tecnico de Investigacions

(DTI) Chief of Personnel

whose wife

said

she had been allowed to see him on only two occasions since 5

he had been arrested sixty days earlier by G-2 agents, along with

others. His wife said that only GARRIGA, out

whole group, had been held incomunicado.

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

I NAVY

REP CINCLANT CINCSO E

(Noro: Field deribution ladreciod bu ag.)

1 A83

I&NS

INSA

-HKX

TOCR

1 FBI 2

LINFORM

TIONER ERORI

I CULLA

VEO

CON

REPOR

HI/SA/NOB

_NE

WIL/SALR

MIL/SA/CI

MI/WIKE

"AP A1.4:

WH/SA 7 (1),

JE

31

LE

JLX - 1822

SO PROJECT (AMMUG/L)

BIDÍAN

;CSCI-316/012-40-5•1

COONDIAATING

WE 1 (2), CIA, RID RID1

6191807 1

INK

201- Jone 19-6-102/4

NYLA NO

ONSOLATE PREVIOCE EDITIONS

4iBR

---

