# 104-10185-10015

## Page 1

104-10185-10015

DISPATCH

SOMET

PROCESSIAG

thies of alation,

12-10

chief of station,

Locombour

Chief, Ns

#48013 + 8 18778-95

1o 19:8i i dr do att

ova, tree

186.30: 481165 1634

Cao Nicia

11: $8,46

'ABSTRACT.

Cafef, HUTUBE/D

Deseription and Photograph of Joad Marlo Andra NAMILI

ACTICA

12104

*Ps. 30, 30, 4, 7

CLacURas Paran. 3b, 30, 4g 3.

I AUDA 234, 7 Ootober 1960

Forwarded herewith le a ploture of Manki.

Although the ploture vas

taken 1n 1957,

he looks today aotry as he did then, with the axception of

few lage bairs on the top of bia head.

Desoription:

42 joars old, apparent ago

43, bolght 6 it. 1 1a., thin butld, antr dark brown, large ears, Fighs oar lobe

bes dintinot tverted-y cut, above bin loft ayabrow la a permnent lump (does not

show on the sttacbed ploture), large enouga, do that 1t cunot be overlookeds

walks with head and shouiders bent lightly forvard; speaks darian and Trench

fluently and can pase as a native of France, on a soale of excellent, nory good,

good, falr, poor, his Ingliah 18 ratod good. Il Ingliah 10 ased with bim, 1t

bould be spoten

Blouly and distinatty, aboosing vorda shich lonto so doubt su

to what in mant.

2.

MAniEL, was sat in Luxemborg by BulkY and Elllott 3. JOUVINOX, 003,

Luxemboura, on 19 and 20 Oatober. (LUDA 234 and ent been recaived in Frankfurt

By tho tie of RAMiXY 'a doparturo from thare for Luxenbourg, bat arrangesents

ver made to have it rolayed to Lurenbourg, and JOUVENOY has confirmod his

receipt of 1t.: The followlag sub paragraphe provide the substance of the

sootage with Milkil:

In vlow of the extrane sonaltivity of the objective for ubich vi

want him to perfora hla task, he vas not told procisely what so vant bia to do.

Instead, he was toid that no

proups 1n Airlos, spocifiöally, Coraluans, and that we vould Ilke to bare him

spot, asseas, and seronmend some dopendable, quick-witted persons for our use.

(Comments

It was thought boat to withbold our true, apecifio requirements pending

tbe final decision to use luNtTi.) He agreed to go on the trip for ue.

Regarding cores for the trip, MallIs suggestod that he travel as a

enlosian for a German fira produotag colmoparatod soft drink, coffee, oto. ,

mchinas. En already hed a brochure from tale company and statod that he could

easily obtain an authenticatlag to-hon-it-nay-condera lotter from the orner. The

PITE LE SCHILAR RISTINERS, SUILER IND CO., CASH, SCTVELA, NSSTYALIA: to Osmer

CATETTEED.

DATE DISATCHES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

2 Hovenber 1960

"CROSS REFERENCE TO - -

LASTA: OH SYMANE AND MUNGER

22

AU3N7147

MEADQUANTERS FRE NUNDLO

ACCINA

PRISORED

CLASS PRATICA

•iSECRIT

CARICE

FI/D/OPS

OFFICE SPURNE

WE/2. 1047

DO/VE 1010/J

DC/AF 20021:

AFTER

DATE

ORIGINATING

TAST

703 rbo

COORDINATING

EAT

| 4652

OFF CINg ALME

5/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ABAPRES SEGRET

207/247:22

Is Me TOMAN, iDo 10 asserted by MaTTe to be a frleid. (Comments Bea.

moons bare bona rin on the fira mnd the eras, idta negatito romlta.)

no stated that la denling idta Conitor 18 1a sonotinee ad

risablo to fir a Coreto us a srspor Is la Finde this advisablo or proce

MEETSE

1o One.

Io man told that contes dis an Airion mold to evillable at

Sotos were luft adtà JOrlaaY for ta une in briafing

Uplan 01246 poovide Jouway utth mat of the laformation woesnary for Martia

Steal bedantagi the only ottos inforsation end sotlas soodedery at this ties aros

12-10

a semipt or this dayt

.D.

mambong to inalil in the briefing to Malt the statesent that

Le crea minto to got bala of bin, abs will telephone him betwen 0830 and 0900

hours or betavan 1700 and 1720 hours at hia hotel, La Goula da Bud, vill giro hia

Predita note to ma that you muld in hare and anted

18o to rins thia to do talided la de briarlos in anticipation of tho poolbi

12102828 83351

Station my plot up information aroading hunks during bia stay

unless be rus into obstnaina alicoly roguiring alecualon or noses dangur to

kasell or lla adnalos er ben contaurg to report mich canot ault hia rutu

to lesbourg. Ho will not contant hla malas an alet up sanitaing alfoating...

hia on Ida mlaalon

Ma poal to tall to a mone to tual tacos to col 12-110

no cats orated mchine. ml first stop mid to he corteeding th

Atallon hes my partloular guidanos la thie ro poot.

anTo of 16 Doe bla on sorRl entialt, Munit alould la spocitoally tall to

bo alert to tha fast that the claules la slob he elli ba doalloe are amally

lended nila palles informata and thas me must lin so erratos momm onution.

No aborld alto ho told that to do nos conalder tula a slanton salon on be estended

al tafialtus Il la lu s08 ablo to dial to tpes sa vest ual astango future

ossaot (ronglon algalo, ate.) althis tou rocks, approsts tai, 18 1a sallialy

that odds imal tues all gos hia amoro, although he bare an opae mind on thie

volat, In do not at bla to fead that to met rotura vith moreas: 11 da canot

IBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

(2004/4722

Page 3

Ind the tries to bood la Dakar, we will look alsoubera. (The operation vo bar

n mind ln too sositin to sink bloving 1t la thia phane, and the semran to

assets mist be condusted with Joy minton r1ak.)

5. JOUVEDI le authortied to provide MAIl vith funda for travel, 1400

or 1n9r expensea in Damr (29 days at 820 per dar), und $300 for operation

pondone 1/1 tale total to lqu., ofting Cont Contar 1123-2003-1000 and cito ta

dispatch as anthortly. (On his roturn be nond mubalt only the airline ticket etub,

Intel bille, and accounting for the 1300 operational expengo only.

These sbould

be sent to 107083/0 enlj.) If he neede sore funde 1al

] he can obtain them 12-10

Chore fron circulo. Ate travel meeratione abould bo mado fron Pranklurt, but

under no etrountances from Intenbourg or Paris. J0UV5107 in authorised to Eiro

him money for trevol to iranhurt for this purpose. (le will dooldo on his roturn

how soch to pay his for hts tles on the misaion.)

6.:If there ire any quettons on the part of

lor Lureabourg, plous

cablo to onah otsir, vita trilo to Equ..

or to lige, sith info to the other station.

Callas abould rarer 1o tala dispatat and be alecsod RIBAI LAURICES ZACURr.

In slos of the laot that the cover installation lo not

guarded dartes off daty bours, this diapaton abould be radared to oratio neces-

mary notos and destroyed after the firut rooding, Muni's ploture ant all cable

tralllo, al vall as your coples of LUDa 234, should also bo destraged as soon as 22

will bo lamodietly endeat.

DARTE M. PRESEND

Attachment

Froto, sa stated, 1 oy

DIstribations 12-10

1-c03, l

7w/attachaont alo

1-003

GIBR

---

