# 104-10150-10158

## Page 1

104-10150-10158 7*

COUNTRY

SUBJECT.

ATLAND/USSR

CONENTS BY ALEKSEX, ADZHUBEY

SO TEAL AND SOVIET BLOC

MICIAISI

LIGENCE AGENCY

wick in angsi

unauthorteed

DISSE

TREPORT NOME

CS:

DATE, DISTR

A NO: PAGES

AREFERENCES

V.

15 JANUARY 1054

DATE OF

INFO. W

AOVALBER 1963

UPLACE &

CRAP BANGKOK

DATE. ACQUN

LATE

Decent

4196

EARLY

1964) FIELD REPORT NO. FIB 7675-

E. THIS IS UNEVALUATED

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS MENTA IVI

SOURCE

JA' EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN (3) WHO HAS OCCASIONAL CLOSE CONTACT VTIE

V SOVIET BLOC TRADE AND OFF OFFICIALS.

LISAT OF CONTENT:

"ADZHUBEY, PROBABLY MADE THE COMMENTS AS REPORTED.

PURING A RICOPTION AT TA"SOVIET PUBASSY, ALSEY ADZHUSEY

RIS GOVERNENT'S ERROR INJOVEREMPHASIZING INDUSTRY AT PEN EXPLAS

CUTURE HE URGED THE SOVIET DIPLOMATIC COUMUNITY TO INCREASS LIS

ACT ME HE THAT PEOPLE ON ORDER TO MPROVE REPORTING ON LOCAL

FIONS ADZIVELY FELT THE THAIS SHOULD KNOW THE SOVIETS ROTTER 200.

SAID SEATO, CENTO AND NAJO ARE USELESS,

ASANELL AS LAOS,

THAT THERE IS TROUBLE IN

," AND THAT THAILAND SHOULD LEAVE THE CHITA PROSIM

USSR. WLATER COMMENIS EL ADZHUBEY TO PRIME MINISTER THANOM AND

MINISTER TRANAT OY POOR PRESS COURAGE OF SOVIET EVENTS ARE MENTIONAI

5812770K

RECEPTION GIVE I MIS TONOR AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY, BANGKOE

молок: 1963,

ALEKSDI: "ADZAUBEY,

" IZESITYA EDITOR AND KHRUSHCHEWS)

LILAVE DELIVERED. A SPEECH TO SOVIET BLOC REPRESENTATIVES WHO MAD, EAT:

ED TO STAY ALTAR THE RECEPTION.

'ADZHUBEY EXPRESSED DEEP PERSONAL! AND

MONAL REGRETLAT THE DRAMA OF PRESIDENT KEN IDK AND MULOG LED, ELS DEEDE

CONGERNING THE SOVIET UNION, AUZHUBEN STEL DO

TESSEN HORLD TENSION FARED IN PLACING IOO GREAT AN EMPFASIS ON C7FM

LIKE, GOVERNMENT HAD

PMENT WITH TOO LITTLE CHOCHT OR MFORT FOR THE AGRICULTRA

OF CURE POPULATION.

TIS LED TO THE SHORTAGE OF WHEAT IT PANCI

ADZITUDES EMPRAS IZED THAT MEMBERS UE TER SONGE

COUNTY IN THAILAND FOULD MAKE GREAVER' EFFORDS TO COASTA

STON TO LEARN MORE 'ABOUTHAILAND AND LIL PEOPLE. TES

AND MORE COMPRETVIS IVER

REPORTING ON LOGAL CONDUIONS

HE STALED, THAT SOME CONTACIS MAY NOT'AGREE WIES

ALLOSOPHY THEREVARS MANY OTHER AREAS ON WEICE 2:

ME SOYINIS SEQUID TEARMORE ABOUT THAILAND,- BUI IN 1

FORTUNE THAI TO KNOW USE SOVIETS BETIER.

32045

---

