# 104-10119-10382

## Page 1

(when Filled In)

104-10119-10382

INCIDENT REPORT

FROM:

3-63005-29

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

Sunil 1080

T22971o

Street

•309 Bir

NAME

351-2950

_ GRADE

DATE =*

TIME _

RETURN TO SIA..

Background Use Only

Do Not Repiodice a

OFFICE

INCIDENT.

TIME -375

PLACE

NR

OS INDiCES

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

1

tn° Ban hir. luchsel

Letoade colested that his father, loreace hr

Dreviously Torked tor

his agency soniano suorri the vessel TIl berrhol in the Forida Toys

Thich tea 38cd in operations agpinst chie. Subject seated his fatter

has laft new Cleans six teals ugo aborad the ugloet ALEATROSS enroute

to lana.

me funily bus cos heurd fros the senior Inborde since cid

2011 die concernes zor lis safety.

The susject's lather has vorting

for the Interstate Toning eni Deirug Carpaly, Ion Calores, Ie.

is. lolorde mas copaiul that the aguay cosla offer sore information

as to its father's vicereroony inasuch as he felt that the lgency

was scill exploying lie faster ta cover capacity; The subject was

discebed to contact the emplo galm, Interstabe Toring aid Dredging

Carpairy, to determine ery infomatics to there big fether is locates.

He ves nost apprcalative and stated lie woule cale innaits or tbe

employing "ir.

A aaron of 0700 recoris under the Ebject war, Leborde, failed

to curlect rov previous-coutnet vitt Sibject.

ACTION TAKEN:

1e slaood in tha csovo noncio.ed.

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PTOS)

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

COPY:

589M 1798

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

CONFIDENTIAL

BRingo

(35) h

---

