# 104-10219-10097

## Page 1

104-10219-10097

DOlP 3.6199

P. win. el

23"

19 December 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Deputy Director for Plans

Discussion with Mr. Richard Davis,

Deputy Assistant Secretary of

State for European Affairs

do I visited the Departent today for discussions

of the Cherepanov and Martin cases

with Mr. Richard Davis.

Also present was Nr. John Guthrie, Chief,

preliminart flrst showed Davis and Guthrie a copy of the

traces on the Soviet officers whose names

appeared in the Cherepanov papers.

They were particularly

interested in learning the true name of Counsclor of the

Soviet Embassy Fonin.

Both officers were cautioned that

this was sensitive information and could not ve usod

overtly.

I also inforned Davis that the University of

Illinois Librarian Miller had just returned from his

trip and

that Mr.

had left for Illinois to

intervier him.

With respect to the dinner at the home of the

Soviet Consular Officer Begunkov attended by. Mr. Thomas

Fain in Moscow, I informod Davis that our records indi

cated that Begunkov w35

an intelligence officer.

Davis

said he suspected as nuch and that in his view

the soviet's

principal interest in wining and dining Fain was to dis

cover how we got the Cherepanov documents and why wo re

turned then.

Davis added that if he needed anything to

convince him further of the mistake in returning these

documents, the Fain-Begunkov dinner party offered final

proof.

Both Davis and

Guthrie remarked that Ambassador

Kohler would recognize the error and would insure that

the error was not repeated.

Finally, on the Cherepanov matter, Dick Davis

asked if we had any objection to his showing these papers

to Ambassador Thompson.

I said we had none and I mentioned

that you were

also interested in the Ambassador's seeing

the papers.

I asked that when the Department is finished

with them

they be returned to

uSe

On the Martin case, Davis was told that Drs.

Renninger and White had a second meeting with Martin

who alleged that he had been told by Soviet authorities

S802ST

DIS C3V

---

## Page 2

1d-0000

-2 -

that he must not tell Renninger and white his true nane

if they asked

Davis was concerned that the two

exchange professors might not conduct themselves with

sufficient discretion and caution in this contact.

assured him that both had been instructed not to seek

out Martin nor to invite his to their quarters. However,

if Martin attempted to see then on the premises of the

Institute, they were not to reject the contact.

I added

here that

we would re-emphasize this in a letter to the

Embassy after we had had the initial reaction from NSA,

whon we have just informed of this, and also had a chance

the Martin file.

Davis then said that he had

informed the

Secretary of State of this meeting and that

further correspondence on it would be handled in CIA

channels.

Davis" last remark on this matter was an ex-

pression of mild

that the press might get news

of this chance meeting

and cause all concerned

siderable embarrassment if it became public knowledge.

I said that whereas at some point therr might be a

reason for publicizing our knowledge of Martin's ac-

tivities, we certainly agreed that at present it would

be the worst possible thing to have happen.

David E

2:3027

---

