# 104-10247-10121

## Page 1

104-10247-10121

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

12 January

1965

SENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telecon with AMWHIP/1 Regarding AMLASH/I's Plans

ANWHIP's telephone call to the undersigned was re

AMWHIP advised that he had called

sation with AMLASH '1 in Geneva.

"AMLASH stated that he would

• be in. Geneva until Sunday at which time he would return to .

He plans now to return to PBRUMEN some time during

the fitst week of February.

He also stated that he would

Ilke to have another Conversation with AMBIDDY/l before he

(AMLASH) returns home, and requested AWHIP to make the

necessary arrangements. / AMLASH

also stated that he desired

AUWHIP/1 to be present at this meeting.

ANWHIP stated that he was not sure that it was a

good idea for AMLASH and AMBIDDY to meet again.

ANWHIP did

not elaborate on this point and we did not discuss it further

on the telephone.

The undersigned

on the contrary,

considering a great number of details left un-

touched at their earlier nechip did not contest thnecessary

them to meet again.

apparently his position was merely one of caution and he

sought guidance on the point.

ANWHIP/1 stated that he was prepared to return to

Europe

at any time we desired.

*He asked only that he be given

* or 5 days advanced notice.

We thanked him for this effort

and also informed him that "Nick" would also want to return

to Europe for meetings with AMLASH.

4.

ANWHIP/1 was told that he would be contacted either

telephonically or personally by the undersigned prior to his

return to Europe.

WH SA EOB

---

