# 104-10161-10465

## Page 1

104-10161-10465

SECRA

REPOR

OF LIAISON

DATE SO 42178

26 Saptaaber 1955

TO

: Chief, Security Control Staff

THROUGH: 1.

2.

reported

Jone-time

The following contact is herebyla requested to be effective on a

continuing barts!

CIA EMPLOYEES

NON- CIA EMPLOYEE.

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

NAME. (Last)

(First)

finitiall

c/TSS/WAD

ROBERTS,

CARSON

Brig Get

OFFICE

OROT

ISS/WAD

US MARIN CORPS, Marlbe Carpa Equitent

OFFICE

BUSINESS ADDRESS

ISS/ WAD

PHONE

Board, Guantico, Virginia

BRTEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON

AND COMMENTS

DOB, 4 September 1905

File No. C04463

to discuss the latest marine equipment.

SO RECORD CHECK

Cb.D

ISS was granted a SECRET clearance on 2 Septamber 1954.

clearance for the persons listed above.

SSD

Date

19-30-53

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSEO

_Top Secret

Confidential

Restricted

CONTACT RECOMMENDED FOR CONTINUEO LIAISÓN OR FUTURE LIAISON ON SIMILAR MATTERS

_unclassified

Seourity Operatbona Offices/DD/B/ISS

OFFICE DIVISION/STAFF

idg

Distributions

waddress0e- orig.&z

500 - 2

SECURITY

4 OCT 1955 Sgt. decroke

bis on the lads of a. B.I

50% 148

FORM NO.

FEB 1953

59.25

DORANIGNATURE

Authorization is grarted for liaison coriast between the indi-

viduais named in this recuest. CLA information may be disclosed through

the classification sialed bui such risciocure trait be Emied by your

office to that necesary io lullili jour requirement. Finistod irzelügence

shall not be disseminated excupt through established chornels. The

concurrence of this Office lor this liaison caniact will expire one year

trom date. If reneral of concurrence is desired. a written request should

be submitted to this Office.

For the Director of Security:

OCT 4

Date

Chiei, Personnel Soluty Division

6103

---

