# 104-10105-10133

## Page 1

104-10105-10133

UNCLASSIFiED

INTERNAL

USL

ILY

ROUTING

AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIRE TIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Manuscript Submitted by David A. Phillips

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

GIETURN TO GLA

Basicaun Neo anis

C/SS/SC

DATE

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number

eoch comment to show from whoi

to whom.

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1. Chief, EAB,

Office of Security

2.

3.

4.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Attached are the comments

of Acting Chief, SOG,

regarding subject

manuscript. All three

comments fall within caveats

2) and 3) cited in your

Routing and Record Sheet.

H.R. Keough

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

•ORA

1-6

610 SEDITIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DRAFT

7

„Jan 76

Chapter XI

Page 10: Though

has received much publicity, there

appears no good reason to confirm the use of this facility by. the

Agency. Unless we plan on officially opening

Has a CIA

training facility, it should not be mentioned. (Check OTR)

Page 15: The "Phoenix Program" originated before William Colby

became DEPCORDS, COMUSMACV. Ambassador Komer started the program and

asked that Colby replace him as DEPCORDS so that there would be some

continuity in the effort to deal with criminal elements of the Viet

Cong infrastructure. It is unfair to subjectively state that the

"Operation Phoenix" was Colby's own albatross. Certainly Colby doesn't

believe this though he is receiving considerable flack from those who

would like others to believe that the whole program was one of assassina-.

tion of which Colby, as head of the CIA, was in charge.

Page 39: We're still putting audio devices in coke bottles -- all

these techniques and methods should not be discussed since we may very

well want to use them again in the future.

z/V

---

