# 104-10061-10053

## Page 1

1104-10061-10053

TO

INFO

Chief of Statios, Paris

FROM

Chiefe Ms

SUBJECTL

Roport on Antonio RODRIQUEZ Sabarabal

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

RET, DIR 39176, 1 Febraary 1962

CAM MODE INDEXI

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

IDE F. MIN

Attnalmente

Rapart (2 00 1.8.6.)

Distributten

3 - HM

1: 127::

e180

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE TYPER

I00 82

DISPATCH #YMBOL AMO NUMBER

DATE DI

12

2 - NE/3 w/att

1

RI

w/att

OFFICE

N5/3

OFFICE SYMBOL

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETI

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

OFFICER

Anne 91lbert

COORDINATING

DATE

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBEN

201-114903

OFFICER'S NAME

---

## Page 2

14-00000

§ Feb dary 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR :

SUBJECT

: Report on Antonio RODRIGUEZ Ichasabal

Antonio RODRIGUIZ Echambal was born la Cube es 17 August 1913.

Ho has a manter'o degree la arleulture, professedly has no religion but

lo. Mason.

RODRIGUEZ li married to Edit JONEs, who was bore in

Cuba on 10 March 19178 she lo, howevor, of Hallian origin, being he

daughter of a former Haltina Ambrodor to Belgium, and she la 1 devou:

Episcopallan. The comple in known to have three children: a son who was

last reported to be la Havant.. Cuba, a daughter married to a moo ol

German birth who was employed in the Castro land reform organisallon

until hio departure for Germany In Decer ber 1961; and a son, Antoalo

RODRIQUEZ Jones, born 24 August 1943 at Havana, who was studying at

the Leole Francaine Interationale In Warhlagton, D. C. la 196l., Thin son

han been reported to be anil U.S. and to have requested permindon of hle

fathor to go to Cuba or to another "socimlint" country to continuo lis

education.

Antonto RODIGUIZ Jonen resided in Washington, D.C. with Yroane

JONES, his aunt and later of the wile ol Antonto RODRIQUEZ Ichasabal.

Mi• JONES was bora 10 Aprll 1910 al Antwerp, Belgium, she was unmarrli

and was a socretary at the Pan American Hoallh Organisallon. She became

nU.8. citimen la 1859, Since the Casiro tOlimo bas Como lo power,

M'' JONES I sald to bavo spolan quite openly for Castro and againos the

U.S. Government.

RODRIGUEZ lived la Haiti for about eighteen your prlor to the

commencement of hin diplomalic career, having been barred by the satiots:

government from returminy to Cuba. He beeme a Maitian eitinen and wau

the owner of a Port-au-Prince meat market emiled "Il Ono Blanco". Wher

Castro aspuned power la Cuba, RODRIGUEZ look over the Cuban Imbase,

lo Port-a-Prince la January 1939 alter the Balines Appointod oldielalo had

fled to khe Dominican Republic, Soan thorpaltor he was named Ambarrado:

to Haiti.

Following hin appointment to the diplomatic pest, RODRIQUIZ coming

to maintaio contact with persons la opposition to Pronident Duvaller of Hal:

ultizen of Cuba

---

## Page 3

14-00000

In late July 1959, Halit was lavaded by a small giop of Cabrao, pposedly

no a preludo to an Invasion of the selghboring Dominican Ropoblie. The

Incursion was successfully repelled by the Halties Governmen, which

publicly charged RODRIQUEZ with complicity in the raid. RODRICUEL ther

cloned the Cuban Embany and returned to Caba after selling his private

property la Haiti.

Whlle RODRIGUEZ was Mill la Haiti, two attempte were made on his

life. He accused the Trujillo regime in the Domialenn Republic and.

Indirectly, the Haltin Governent of complicity la those attacko.

la November 1959, MODRIGUEZ won to Guatemala in Cuban Ambassado:

There, he appeare to have snociated freely with pro-Communist groups. I

March 1960, ho was requested by the Custemalan Governent to leave the

country on the ground that he was engaging in activities lalmical to the beat

Interesto of Cantomala.

In November 1960, RODRIGUEZ reported to Karachi, Pakinan, ma Cubi

Ambassador. His wife accompanied him there and served an hia chie!

secretary. Duriag the Inltial months of hio tour there, hio closent relation.

in the diplomatle colony were with official of the Bolgian Embassy,

presumably so a result of the fact that Belglum and represented Cuba when

thore was no Cuban representatlve In Karachl. Durlos 1961, however, hie

social contncts were almost exclusively with Sovlit, satellite and Chineme

Communiot diplomatic personnel;

In late 1961, when RODRIGUEZ Apparently had decided to defect, he

confided to an acqualmtance in the diplomatic colony that he was finished

with polities and wanted to devote the rent of his life to agriculture. He ho:

at the time to go to the Dominican Republic or to another, unpeellied Soul!

American nation. At the llme of his departure from Karachl by air for

Germany in early 1962, RODRIQUEZ reportedly made only a very limited

statement at the airport regarding hin defectios. The vent apparemily

received very little, ll any, press notice in Palletan.

Innuficient information esimo at present to permit a decermination so!

the genulmene!» of RODRIGUEZ'" dinaffocilon with the Cantro rogine. Fo:

ressons which have not as yet been fully reported, the Department al State

dented a visa to RODRIGUEZ, Apparently after he had made the decision te

resigahlo post la Pakistan. We understand, however, that, following hin

Citizen or buba:

# + 405061-91

he plis:

---

## Page 4

14-00000

arrlval ln Franco la January 1962, he rocolved permiesles frem T'remel

suchoriles to travel to and reside la Martinique. It eppesre that he laft

France on 31 Jamary 1962 en roule to Martinique.

Thie cervico would approciate having the ronulto of any debrialing of

RODRIQUEZ by.

with particular relorenco to the reason

for hie reslgnation and him plans for the future.

---

