# 104-10225-10061

## Page 1

104-10225-10061

C E35FD MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

¡FROM

ACTION:

JINFO

• CISCIO:

C*:

!.

iT, C1/o0s

NiTiti

FYI

METERIES NO COPY SLOTICO AT 2020 27 A 02)

61/014.

51, 51.24, 000, W 4, 05 2, VR

PRICE:

12201011

CITE OTTA 1513

277020705

aar D:17055

1. : GAUSE SINGOVES NAVS AENNCALEDGSO THAT RODRIGUEZ INFORMATION

PRIMARILY OF INTEREST ODYOKE, SENSOVE/I PERSGHALLY AGREEASLE RODRIGUEZ

TRANSET: POPRIE WHENEVER MUGARY CESIRES. SUREOVER INSISTS, WOWEVER,

THAT EVERE HE CAN GIVE FORMAL IPPROVAL HE HUST FIRCT DETERMING THAT

STAGET AIS NO OBJECTION.

Z. ICCORDING STABLAN, SAENE/ HAS INSTRUCTED THAT SNACT/D SE

"INFORGO OF IMPENDING TRANSFEE CORNING 23 APRIL AND IF SHACT/I DOES

NOT OBJECT KUBARK CAN PROCESO TITE TRANSFER SHADEAM CONFIDENT THAT

HE "CAN AND WILL ORTAIN REQUIRES SASET APPROVAL".

HE WILL NFOR"

STATION I DSCISION AFTERNOON EE APRIL.

3.

SON SORE

NO BISIS 0:

IF NECE

PAY GISSON WILL ARGU

SIRECTLY WITH SYNCT.

STATION: FRESHT INTENTION LEE ERWE LANGOLZE GUSING ALI E SURELS

ANO 1O0B10.2Z TO SYRACUST VIA TYLEE INTERNATICH BRIDGE 4031*90

29 APRI:. CH ARRIVAL SYRACUSE, LASSOSCH OSAFELY AND RODEIGUOZ TILL

PROCESS THE BY EASTERN AILINGS FISHT 55 DECAITING SYRACHES 13?5

RPT

13CE HURS, ARRIVING LASH TAKE HOURS.

1 PAPA 3 WILL RESUIRE:

$50527

LEPRODUCTION SY OTHER FEED: 35.15 ORICE IS PROHATES

1.e.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSFIED NECTAGE

IN 20:03 PAGE2

• M THAT DOR LARKATIC: C/10K IVY LEE LITRY POINT WE

INSTER HERMIT RODRIGUEZ CATAY UNDER SPECIAL PROCEDURE.

THAT BEGORATION CETORE UNDERSTANO THAT LANGOSCH 1EO WILL

VIC LIGHATIC PASSPORT IN TRUE MINE TO IDEUTIFY SELE TO IMMIGRATION

TO RODRIGUS? SY ALIAS (SAFELY AND TRUE IDENTITY

SHAUL :. KOTECTED IN RUDNIGUSE PRESENCE.

ALOE SOONEST RE TARA E.

C/S COIN:

*AUSODA MAKING SPECIAL EXCEPTION RODRICUEZ CASE AND ARRANGING

HIS ENTRICE U.S.

SECRET

---

