# 104-10167-10256

## Page 1

104-10167-10256:

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Memorandum of Conversation

DATE: 10 July 1959

SUBJECT

: Telephone Conversation with Herbert Nice, Director of Intelligence,

Bureau of Inmigration®

PAMORANTS abert Nice and s

COPIES TO :

1. A: 1600 on 9 July I returned Mr. Nice's calle

He said that they

hed been told by the State Department that Pedro Luis

DIAZ Lanz, forser

chief of the Cuban Perolutionary Air Force, was no longer available to the

people who wanted to see him. He said that-Official stand of INS on the

matter is that DIAZ Lans has been aditsed

as a resident alien and that

INS cannot be expected to keep track of him since this is a free country®

He also seid that officially he wanted to inforn me that DIAZ Lans 1e

under subpoena to the Senate Intercal Security Subcomittee and that we

could get la touch sith him by contacting the Cormittee's offices. I

thanked hin for the infernation and said that I would refer the matter

to my supervisors linedlately.

?. I noticed that the conversational tone used by Nice in telling

me the above was somewhat forral, and believe that this eall was obviously

for the recordo

Re-enfercing me belief is the fact that nice said'he had

called me outside ef custonary liaison channels because be wanted to make

sure that the man who sould have to do the work involved would be aware

of the situation.

I asked his then is his meaning was that he could truste fine.

Lans to be our voluntary guest for the period of tine necessary for the

Intelligence comunity to debrief his, and he agreed that this was the

ease. I told him that se had only learned that DIAZ was being brought.

to Washington jesterday afternoon and that there were many intelligence

reouirements Involted in the matter which we had not had sufficient time

to pouch to our man in Miend.

TEN NO: 1132

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

/go

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Lo To take the chill off the conversation, I thanked Nice for the

cooperation we had received from hin and his bureau on the matter of tbe

exfiltration of the five former ERIC officials fron Cuba. I also asked

him.1f a letter of aprectation on tils matter nigi, be welcone. He

replied that it might be better 1f I consulted the Alien Franch of the:

Office of Security on this since too many letters of this sort might

cause eyebrows to be raised at DiS - and that trere were rumors that be

night be shifted to another position. I said that I was sorry to hear:

this, but hoped that if true it might be to a less difficult and more

rewarding job.

3/111/10

SECRET

---

