# 104-10071-10011

## Page 1

(104-10071-10011

I SUNCLASSIFIED:

SUAJECT: 1Opr.

"ROM:

YTERNAL

-SE ONLY

J COr DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

CI/Ober

suilding)

"J: ¡Officer sesignation, room number, and

2.

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

6537

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

5.

7.

3

NO.

B-89

DATE

22 April 1968

COMMENTS (Number, gea comment to

show from whors

to whom.

Diam a State folumn after ouch comment. i

DES ONLY

Originated by: DDP/CI/OP/Ober

22 April 68

Based on:

Memorandum for

the Record br

Source of spap

para 2 not

identified

Disseminated to: FBI on

22 Apr 68

File:

TROD

PROD

B-Memos (record copy)

CC:

on use

PENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SEGRET

DIES ONLY

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

7518

B=89

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSENT ABROAD

22 APR 1968

SUBJECT: Radio Messages for Stokely Carmichaal

During the April 1968 Riots in Washiagton, D.C.

1. During the civil diaorders of 6 and 7 April 1968

in Washington, D.C. following the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther King.

Jr., an employee of this Agency beard on his

Folloye or

car radio messages directed to Stokely Carmichael. The

employee does not remember the station of which the program

was broadcaat; however, he identified it as a local "rock and

roll" station which was located in the 1400-1600 range on the

AM dial.

z.

An acquaintance of this employee also mentioned

hearing during this period messages such as "Stokely Carmichael,

please call your headquarters'; regular radio programs were inter-

upted to broadcast these messages.

Originated by: DDP/CI/OP/Ober:sg, 22 Apr 68

Based on : Memorandum for the Record

by

Source of paragraph 2 not identified

15 - 23

SEGRET

NO COPSIAN MISSFIA NO DISSEM ABROAD

Ex died:

Me note toa

---

## Page 3

14-00000

• *:

SECRET

22 April 1968

-ONd FOR. 773 RECORD

2.00502:

Radio messages for Stokely Carmichael during

the riots in Washington D.C.

1458

mring the civil disorders of April 6-7,

following the assasination

artin Luther King Jr., this writer heard on his car radio mes

sages intended for Stokely Carmichael.

Another acquaintance of mine

also -entioned hearing such messages which would interrupt the program

in progress to say, "Stokely Carmichael, please call your headquarters

(or sore similar nessage)." The exact station is unknoim to me, except

that it was in the 14001600 range on the AM dial and was a local rock-.

and-roll station.

CIOP/DO

SECRET

2-44

---

