# 104-10183-10191

## Page 1

104-10183-10191

vớ!

SECRET

4 September 1964

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Invitation to ASZASH/1 via Manuel RODRIGUEZ

REFERENCE: AWTHIP/1 Nemo, dated 31 August 1964

1.

At 1130 hours on 4 September 1964, AIWHIP/1 tele-

phoned the undersigned from New York to say that he had just

talked with RODRIGUEZ in lexico.

RODRIGUEZ had stated that

se, as a private citizen and doctor, was unable to arrange

an

invitation for AMLASH/1 to the 16th National Assembly of

surgeons to be held in Mexico City, in November 1964.

He

had, however, been able to arrange

to have AMLASH/1 inviteo

by the Mexican Govt, through the help of a Mexican official

whose name AUAHIP/1 had forgotten (but delivered that it

or something similar.

If there are no hitches,

to come

to Mexico this November.

2. Eduardo PERYAS:

AJMHIP/1 said that he had made

mistake regarding the name of the long-time mistress of PERHAS 106

that her nickname was

"Jica" (Dr. Antonio YANEZ), rather than

"TINA" (Vincentina ASTUÑA) as he

had previously thought. (This

conforms to information provided by a WAVE report).

3.

AIWHIP/l stated that he had

had trouble the last time he applied for a Mexican

visa (some

six months ago, and asked if we could help him in this matter.

He was told that this would be too obvious to too many people,

and that it was best if he try

again himself, giving

business or pleasure

as the reason for wishing

Mexico.

said that he would try again himself today (the

fourth).

A!WHIP/l pians to leave tonight or tomorrow for Miami,

return to New York (probably) and then depart for Europe next

Tuesday (the 8th) or thereabouts.

He will be in his office in

New York

about 1700 this evening.

SECRET

2/02

---

## Page 2

14-00000

or at to

the invitation

SECRET

TH/SA/BOB

---

