# 104-10114-10064

## Page 1

104-1014-0064)

-SEGRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1998

22 March 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Security Support Division

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chief, Investigations Branch

: C-25507

#712569

GIST:

The subject, & contract Agent, is now being considered for

career agent status and a provisional covert security approval

has been requested on an expedite basis to enable the subject to.

sign a contract as a career agent when he comes to the United

States in the latter part of March.

Subject meets staff stan

dards with the exception that his wife is a Costa Rican citizen®

Recommend issuance of provisional covert security approval with

full covert security approval to follow upon completion of ad-

ditional investigation.

DETAILS:

DDS/1&S

550%

I. The Subject 15 a native born United States citizen, who

resided in Illinois from the date of his birth in 1922 to 1940 when

he entered the United States Army. He served overseas with the Army

and later the Air Force until his discharge in 1945. After his dis-

charge he worked for a brief period in Sterling, Illinois until

December 1945, at which time he moved to the Panama Canal Zone. He

has remained outside the United States fron 1945 to the present timo-Aft for

and from 1946 to 1949 served a period of re-inlistment in the Air

Force®

Eas. hered from

2. According to information supplied by. Wi Division, Subject

became a Contract Agent in June 1949 and has served continuously in

that capacity up to the present time.

Subject's security file re-

A. la Dep

flects that he was processed for an

operational clearance in July

AJ & Trap.

1954 for use as an agent under Project AM L Ol JInvestigation

Lat that time consisted of RI-K checks on the Subject which produced

i Cir isr. BLD

nothing derogatory and National Agency Name Checks on the Subject

C7 Sus. Br.

which were likewise non derogatory.

Car. Car Br

Dask 18

Doz's S2

Desk. CRO.

SECRET

U SS0 Files

---

## Page 2

14-00000

sEORET

3. Additional Investigation which can be performed includes

coverage at Dekalb and Sterling, Illinois to cover the subject's

residences in those communities prior to 1940 and for the brief

period during 1945, during which be was employed in Sterling,

Illinois. In addition, name checks and fu-& checks will be brought

up to date on the Subject and additional RIK checks will be scheduled

on the Subject's spouse and her relatives who are apparently residing

In Costa Rica.

4. In a memorandum dated 8 March 1957 from Chief, WH DivisiOn,

It was stated that the Subject is currently assigned to Cuba where

he is utilized as Principal Agent on Project AML Ol ]This Pro-

ject 18 an FI operation designed to provide information on political

activities (Including Communist) In University circles in Havana,

Subject's activities in connection with this Project have been

concerned with Comunist Party penetration and his current work in-

volves the handling of a net of agents providing coverage of Communist,

leftist, revolutionary and otbor political activities of Havana and

the student yout, circles in general in Cuba. Subject's use under

the requested covert security approval will be the same as in the past

according to Mr. Hugh MacCAULSY, Wil/3.

5. WH Division in its memorandum of 8 March 1957 was highly

laudatory in Its eushatksor the Subject and consider him to be an

outstanding employee with strong overall qualifications.

further pointed out that the Subject's spouse, a Costa Rican citizen,

has expressed a desire to acquire United States citizenship and she

plans to accompary her husband to the United States for this purpose

In the near future.

the outstanding service which he has performed in the past.

The Sub-

ject plans to be in Washington, D. C. at the end of March and 1t 18

desired to assign hin to a contract as a career agent at that time.

7. In view of the absence of any derogatory information con-

cerning the Subject, plus the fact that he is a native born United

States citizen and taking into account his past record of outstanding

service as a contract agent, it is felt that a provisional covert

security approval could be issued at this time to enable the Subject's

use as a career agent.

The provisional covert security approval would

be issued with the understanding that additional investigation was

being performed and that a final decision regarding the issuance of

a full covert security approval would depend on the results of said

investigation.

The only area wherein Subject failed to meet staff

standards is in the fact that his wife and her relatives are citizens

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ol Condo Rica curanolo reciding in Chet deuntr

e salger wald no

• 27°C':

Recormend iscuinee of proriciona cou. ercurity approral fer

¿ Carcer Agort ar per the enclosed remorandi: or

;:."

0:121.

24: 1-9r: 1957

PREDING

---

