# 104-10128-10157

## Page 1

104-10128-10157

RET

chier, Personnel Security Division, os

25 October 1963

Chief, Coatact DivIsion, 00

RICCIARIKILI, Libero = 00-A-3,279,170

#348295

:. Our memorands dated 9, 19, and 20 August 2963, same subject

1. The attached copy of 00-A-3, 279,170 containe infar-

nat1on pertaining to subject which may be of Interest to the

FBI. Il so, please do not disclose the name of our source.

2. Mll you kindly refer to paragraph 6 of the report

and advise us concerning the propriety of our sourcels in.

terest in writing and vaiting subject. Hould the Bureau

object to this?

3. This report has receired no further diesentsation.

4. Any questions pertalning to this memorandun should

be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Est. 2202.

I. H. ASHCRAFT

Attachment: As stated above

33?.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

GO SEATIM

i:6:7-3,277,17.

Libero Micciardelli (Sorrect, 22 Detober 1963

SUBJECT: US Repatriate, Llbero Ricklardel (Rikklardel), feedham

Heights 94, Massachusette.

REF

8 Faragraph three, our hemo, dated 31 aul 61, forwarded under

Саве - 35780. (Copy attached)

1. After all this time, ve finally (although inadvertently)

obtained the name of the gentleman referred to in the above reference;

the subject of this memo.

Our source,!

Aerospace Corporation,

recently received a letter fron Protessor Alexis O. Ivakhrenko stating

that subject had returned to the fold. Following In an excerpt of the

letter, bad Inglish and all:

"It seems to me I speak worser English than some times ago -

especially after my neighbor Ilbero Ricklardel (Rikklardel)

Ithe typing was hard to decipher because of strike-overs or

the second and third letters) went home for Needhan Heite

94, Massachusetts. It was good praxis for me to speak with

him. He 18 complicated man having good and bad sides.

Shortly

to tell, he le rather egolstle man who did not think about

Communism or capitalism.

Bod not love a o

Having the strong complications

In his family, he dos not love his wife but wanted the such

divorce when the children remain with his mother but not with

the wife, because he considers her as mentally weak. He hoped

to find the anever in another system. Here he received

rather good apartment and salary - 150 rubles per month, but

became homesick. Even the beautiful nature of Kiev seemed

to him gray and bore (bare?). With great difficulties,

mainly from the USA side, hi got permission to return to

home. There wait for him two big problems: first - to

solve the problen with wife and children. The old fashioned

society of Needham will be against him. Second - the State

Department cannot "forgive' him his cosmopolitienl behavior.

"And poor Norma [undoubtedly Libero's vise) bas no neensto

live and cannot find the job in USA, even as the baby sitting

woman. She Is very tired and almost 111. Her only sister

telle her the price of the meal which she eats. Libero 1a

rather stingy, as many people abroad, exoept you, of course!

Her sitution 1s very tragie.*

05

3. Barlier in the letter, Alexis asked

o write a welconing

letter and maybe later violt with him. In this regard Alexie sald, "I

would like to know his destiny after return home.

And Inter, he said,

"Do not ask a word about Norma from Ilbero, 1t makes him fierce. He really

does not love ber. Nevertheless I would like to know the future of this

family and maybe help them in any way - for instance I can try to send

the medseine which Norma Iikes and cannot find In the USA."

GREEP 1

Excluded from artemati:

deengrating and

3/p1

---

## Page 3

CONFIDS TAL

4. Perhaps the Bureau would like to have a next door neighbor's

contribution re a recent repatriate. If so, please do not divulge our

source's name.

5. Too, lalbero might be an excellent source of bio date on

Ivakhnenko, having lived next door to him for a few years.

With a

BZ1ght amount of pressure, he would probably be a most willing source.

6. With reference to

writing to and visiting this

Individual, we advised him to hold off unt1l such time ae ve were

notified differently. Therefore, would you please check with the

appropriate Bureau staff to determine the extent of their interest and

whether or not our source would be cleared to write to and/or visit

him?

7. Please advise.

- end -

GROUP 1

Excladed fram automs

corneradine are

---

