# 104-10308-10193

## Page 1

104-10308-10193

NUIRISH DEIVING UI LUC

uncleAn te States of America

OUTGOING

- 5390.

Charge:

Classification

Control: ROUTINE

Date:

1 NOV 02

OATSETENE

DISTS * - SIG

1 - BOARD

INDEVOUT/ 3/OPS

INDEVOUT / 3/PROD

REPORT CHRON

1 - AMB

FORM FS 413P

3-1-55

DIR INFO

20-10

CITE

22

20-18

- 4470

INTEL. PBRUMEN

01

SUPDATA: ZRWARDO.

28-18

INDEVOUT 3J SEE J4459

FILED: 1919452

Dissemed 20 Na62

TDS D3-3652,244

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO

, DISSEM ABROAD

(INSERT REPORT SYMBOL AND NUMBER) COUNTRY: USSR, CUBA

SUBJS CONMENTARY CONCERNING THE PROBABLE REACTION OF EEDET

CASTRO AND HIS PRINCIPAL ASSOCIATES TO THE SOVIBI, NITHDRAWAL

DE, OFEENSIVE MISSILES FROM CUBA AND TO U,Se DEMANDS RE 741E

_ WITHDRAWAL OF SOVIET IL-28 AIRCRAFT AND. ON-SPOT INSPECTION.

DOI: 14 NOVEMBER 1962

PADA: MEXICO CITY, 14 NOVEMBER 1962 APPR: 6

BOURCES FORMER CUBAN OFFICIAL (C)

1. (FIELD CONMENT: THE AUTHOR OF THIS COMMENTARY OCCUPIED

A RESPONSIBLE POSITION IN HAVARA DURING THY FIRST YEAR AFTER

THE CASTRO REVOLUTION. HE APPROVED OF TILE APPARENT AIMS OF

THE REVOLUTION AT THAT TIME. ALTHOUGH NOT AN INTIMATE OF

FIDEL CASTRO HE WAS ACQUAINTED WITH THE LATTER. HE KNEW

A WIDE CIRCLE OF CASTRO ASSOCIATES ON AN INTIMATE BASIS AND

WORKED CLOSELY WITH THEM IN THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT. THE

AUTHOR IS A VERY INTELLICENT AND WELL EDUCATED MAN, WHO

POSSESSES AN EXHAUSTIVE KNOWLEDGE OF THE CUBAN SCENE IN

THE PAST THREE DECADES. SINCE ARRIVING IN MEXICO HE HAS

MAINTAINED CLOSE CONTACI, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, WITH A.

VARIETY OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND ON THE BASIS OF

classificamont

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

Peare yet ot elet he dare one eat un, and to the rife on lie or Be *

68-6.17/8

To in Fidel Cast

ERS

---

## Page 2

13-00000.

AUGIE DOINING UNLIG

Up*eu States of America

OUT GOING

Charge:

Classification

Control:

Date:

PAGE TWO

FORMER ASSOCIATION AND FRIINDSHIP HAS DISCUSSEDNITH THEM

MAITY FACETS OF CURRENT CUBAN POLITICAL LIFE. HOWEVER,

THE AUTHOR HAS NOT HAD ANX CONTACTS WITH SUCH PERSONS

SINCE TIE ONSET OF TIP CURRENT CRISIS.)

2. IT IS DOUBIFUL THAT FIEDL CASTRO WILL ACCEDE TO

SOVIET WISHES RE SETTLEMENT OF THE CURRENT CUBAN SITUATION,

DESPITE THS PRESSURE REPORTEDLY BEING EXERCISED ON HIM BY

SOVIET DEPUTY PREMIER ANASTAS MIKOYAN. _ CASTRO'S VANITY

IS IMMENSE AND NO MATTER HOW IT HAS BEEN, EXPLAINED TO

HIN BY MIKOYAN OR OTHER SOVIET OFFICIALS, HE MUST BE

FURIOUS AT THE FACT THAT THE SOVIST UNION HAS "BACKED DOWN"

BEFORE THE U.S. AND IS NOW NEGOTIATING WITH THE U.S. ON

AN INDEPENDENT BASIS. CASTRO MUST CONSIDER HIMSELF AS

BEING IN-A-DESPERATE SITUAXION. HE CAN NOT TURN HIS

ANGER OPENLY ON THE SOVIET UNION BECAUSE. IT NAS HE AND

HIS BROTHER RAUL WHO WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR MOVING CUBA SO

DEEPLY INTO THE "SOCIALIST CAMP" DESPITE AT LEAST THE

INITIAL RESISTANCE BY SEVERAL OF HIS PRINCIPAL FOLLOWERS,

FOR EXAMPLE, PRESIDENT OSVALD DORTICOS AND FOREICN MINISTER

RAUL ROA, THUS TO ATTACK THE USSR PUELICLY WOULD BE TO

ADMIT THAT HE HAD MADE A MAJOR ERROR WITH RESPECT TO THE

CONDUCT OF RELATIONS VITH THE SOVIET UNION. REALIZATION

BY CASTRO THAT SUCH IS THE SITUATION NUST CONSIDERABLY

INCREASE HIS SENSE OF FRUSTRATION AND HIS FEELING OF

DESPERATION.

3. m

FIDEL, CASTRO IS DOMINATED BY VANITY. HE HAS

MEGALOMANIACAI TENDENCIES, AND HE POSSESSES A COMPULSON

FOR REVENGE WHICH IS NOTORIOUS; ON OCCASION THE LATIER

FORM FS 4:3P

3. 1.55

"Single are Tressages Pohe aper the cares, meted serial ager, rial out enveloat marked perso) Fithoul

after the address, omit the serial number, and pouch in envelope marked

---

## Page 3

13-00000,

1 MACHOA tea States of America

OUTGOING

FORM FS 413P

3-1-55

Charge:

radi

Classification

Control:

Date:

PAGE THREE

COMPULSION HAS CAUSED HIM TO REACH BACK AS FAR AS TWENTY

YEARS TO REVENGE ACTIONS TAKEN AGAINST HIM AT THAT TIME.

CASTRO'S CHARACTER IS SUCH THAT RATHER THAN ACCEPTING

A LOSS IN PRESTIGE AND SIATUS HE WOULD BE WILLING TO

DESTROY HIMSELE AND THIS CUBAN PEOPLE. IN THE CURRENT

SITUATION UNLESS HE CAN SEE SOME WAY TO ACHIEVE A SOLUTION

OF THE VARIOUS PROBLEMS, INCLUDING THE U.S. BLOCKADE,

AERIAL SURVEIELANCE AND THE DEMANDS FOR THE WITHDRAWAL

OF THE IL 28 BOMBERS AND FOR ON-SPOT INSPECTION IN CUBA,

CASTRO IS FULLY CAPABLE OF UNDERTAKING AN ACT OE DES-

PERATION. FOR EXAMPLE THE AERIAL BOMBARDMENT OF THE

U.S. OR SOME GROSS ACT AGAINST THIS SOVIET AMBASSADOR

IN CUBA.

4. THE MOOD AMONG LEADING EIDELISTAS MUST BE ONE

OF SORROW, AND BITTERNESS AND RAGE AGAINST THE SOVIET

UNION, WEICH THEY WILL REGARD AS BAVING SOLD OUT DUBA.

THE SOVIET TREATMENT OF CUBA AS A PAWN IN THE INTER-

NATIONAL GAME WILL BE PARTICULAFLY CALLING TO THE CUBAN

NATURE. RAUL CASTRO IS LIKELY TO FEEL PERSONAL INJURY.

IF. AS SEEMS TO BE THE CASE, IT IS AS A RESULT OF HIS

TRIP TO MOSCON THAT SOME OF THE MISSILES WERE SENT TO

CUBA. KHILE HIS REACIION IS LIKELY TO BE LESS ERRATIC

THAN THAT OF FIDEL. RAUL IS POTENTIAILY CAPABLE OF

ADOPTING AN EXTREMELY HARD LINE AGAINST THE SOVIETS.

HIS REACTION WHEN IS FELT THAT THERE HAD BEEN BETRAYAL,

EVEN BY COMVUNISTS TO WHOM FLE WAS FORMERLY CLOSE, WAS

SHOWN IN HIS ATTITUDE TOWARDS ANIBAL ESCALANTE, WHOM HE

WISHED TO EXECUTE AFTER THE LATTER'S ANTI-FIDELISTA

i Glassification

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

*iSingle-address messages Pouch

retyping,

Pouch aster the arres meet serial umber, rial ouch classificati maot the more ithout

---

## Page 4

13-00000

HUG UNTIL WITH

Ur eu States of America

OUTGOING

FORM FS 413P

31-55

Charge:

'Classification

PAGE FOUR

Control:

Date:

ACTIVITY BECAME KNONN.

5. AMONG OTHER INFLUENTIAL FIDELAISTAS, OSVALDO

DORTICOS IS LIKELY TO BE PARTICULARLY INCENSED AT THE

SOVIET ACTION. DESPITE FREQUENT PRESS REPORTS THAT HE

IS A LONG TIME CONMUNIST, IT IS A FACT THAT DORTICOS

OPPOSED THE ESTABLISHHENT OF RELATIONS WITH THE USSR

AT THE TIME OF MIKOYAN'S FIRST TRIP TO CUBA. HE DID

THIS APPARENTLY BECAUSE HE REGARDED IT AS A STEP WHICH

WOULD UNNECESSARILY HARDEN U.S. ATTITUDE TOWARDE CUES.

IN ADDITION, HIS IS KNOWN TO HAVE OPPOSED MIASURES UNDER-

TAKEN BY RAMIRO VALDEZ, AND THE G-2. AND BY ANIBAL

ESCALANTE AND HIS HENCHMEN. THUS EB IS LIKELY TO BE

PARTICULARLY ANGERED AND BETTER THAT THE POLICIES WHICH

HE UNSUCCESSFULLY OPPOSED WERE IMPLTMENTED AND HAVE IDD

TO SUCH DISASTROUS RESULTS.

6. RECARDISSS OF WIKIHER OR NOT LRADING FIDELISTAS

DIFPER FROM CASTRO RE THR ACTION CUBA SHOULD NOW TARE.

IT IS NOT LIRELY THAT THEY WILL ATTENPT BY FORCE TO CAUSE

ELIM TO TAKE A CONTRARY COURSE OF ACTION, OR TO TRY TO

STRIP HIM OF POVER. THEY ARE TOO THOROUGHUE AVARE OF

HIS RUIHILESSNSSS AND VINDICIIVENESS TO RISK SUCH ACTION

EXCEPT IN EXTRIME CIRCUMSTANCES. IF, HOWEVER, HE EMBARKS

ON AN ACT OF UTTER POLLY WHICH IN THEIR VIEW INVITES

THE DESTRUCTION OF CUBA, THEY MIGHT ACT AGAINST HIN.

7. THERE HAVE BEEN PRESS REPORTS OP A PROPOSED

DEMILITARIZATION OF THE CARIBBEAN AREA. THIS SEEMS TO

•BE ONE FORMULA WILICH CONCEIVABLY MIGHT GIVE FIDEL CASTRO

A WAY OUT OF TIE IMPASSE WHICH CONFRONTS HIM, SINCE HE

MIGHT FEEL IHAT HE COULD PERMIT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY 18

Classifichtip

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

"Single aires message Pothe aper the adrie, dete eract ager, iat pou che lassification at the Messe) *ithout

---

## Page 5

13-00000 •

1012615/19

OUTGOING

be"eu States of America

Charge:

Classification"

Control:

Date:

PAGE FIVE

D.S. DEMANDS AND STILI SAVE FACE, FOR EXAMPLE. BY SAYING

THAT HE HAS NOTHING AGAINST CUBA BEING THE FIRST OBJECT

OF IMPLEMENTATION OF A GENERAL'AGRREMENT SINCI TOMORROW

IT WILL BS THE TURN OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE. CASTRO

MIGHT ACCEPT SOME SUCH A GENERAL ARRANGENENT AS A MEANS

OF SAVING FACE EVEN THOUGH HE KNEW THAT THERE WOULD NOX

BE IN FACT AN APPLICATION OF THE SAME MEASURES FE THE

CANAL ZONE AS RE CUBA.

B.

FIELD DISSEM: AMB ONLY.

END OF MSG

ORIG: MIDDAUGH

RELEASEDS DIMARD

FORM FS 413P

3-1-55

1, 1'

."san.?"

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY I

Classification

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

isingle aires gee, to the pete a be dirt st ae in do i erie on the per be without

---

