# 104-10174-10040

## Page 1

104-10174-10040

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

These Days:

Praise From the Devil

By Genie Fo Sokolky

THE LANGUAGE if nis

Matthems losin American es artiele is minatul of Prarda

inter america an on al

Inter American bands"

of

39575

and

lavestla

back

the

What the Castroites are de

carllest dais of the Bolshev

ing obviously is 8o lAritate the

Times,

arcat

American."

Fist

Revolution.

It is mindful of

American people and

Tart

the

the praise for John Rend and

Big

Bill

Congress lo such a ritch that

Has wood.

Since

we shall, in anger. blow them

those days.. Russin Commu

mists have forsatien the wurd

into

the Caribbean.

Bolsherak.

When

and. they

the time comes, uc shall cut

fense.

heap crumbs of praise unon

off the sugar quels and the

not after

these alons who sac in thein

sugar sulsidy. for obvlously

it

perfections which thieg

makes

tell Fidel Cai

sucha

hey do not passes

know

no sense lo assisti

a country.

Scon

It Castro

tre to lichsie

ve shall read a Revolucior

finds his country ensla:a. by:

jake a beasi?

alicle praising Jack Pasr as

our generosity: he has the

Revolucina said:

a great philosopher because

option

of

not

accepling.

"That is impressive about

he

"senses" the foodness of

either the enslavement or the :

Matthews' recedi act in our

the Cuban soul:

¿encrosily.".

defense li che special circum.

The Cuban neuspaper say's

AS FOR TUE extraordi

Stance

ander adicti it' oc.

•To such factlons: tin

nary.

praise.. for

Merhert,

the United States) is due the

Matthews of the New

York

curred. lle ceraini did not

will which bits North

Times.

face the blased opirica ol a

Americans al every poins in

for

this is unfortunale

Matthews

bocause

group of farriers

unable

the world where one rates

raises

question

which

perhaps 1o understand us and

their dollars

without siring

Seunior Fulbright pught in,

who, in the log ma, bare no

one's heart in enchange

mediately

10.

irrestigate.

reason to loit as other than

*Far be it from

us to rise

with

Why was Herbert Matthews

up agriast themi.

It 8s

for the musine of their

called in byithe State Depart

He

such deceived people thas we

con-

shake

Meal to

brick. Fari

E.

T.

fronted-uay tre andeniable

with

Smith on Cubs when Smith

§ truth

hands

peopics.

resardiese

much those who distort

how

was appointed to be pur Am-

naw the light of lbe sun on' ity, try to make enemies'ot us

bassador to thai country!. 1s

these Cuba sames and wen

things have turned out, was

abeond to murn saist us by

ple that we greet ever

so many megas ol space in

le that me sover suery les

alatthews' judgment of the

Castro

revolution.

correct

"the Miand' Hera'd and

In the form of thousands a

from the standpulat 'of

the

Fbresenty disrat us on the

while presbyterian

and, black" Cittolie

United States! Does not this

and

television ared betraying

tourists, official article give the im.

i his country

who... and

shameful

like " Herbert

pression tha: Matthews' atti

Matthew's,

do more for

allance, with rindi ire crim-

the

tude was and' in paritsán?

solidarity of all men than all

coria desting Panteres

3421

---

