# 104-10427-10033

## Page 1

11041042710033)

UNCLASSIFIED

"RNAL

U. ONLY

CONF

INTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:•

CIA RecordS Related to the HSCA Investigation.

Jon Wolfe/RSB

2D0117.Hos•

zlo

TO: (Officer designation, room number,

building)

and

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

• Rodger Gabrielson/OLC

6D15 Hqs. 3500520 2

2. 1G

Susan Kessler/OLC

6D15 Has

3.

Dick Rininger/OGC

7D07 Has.

Les Raty/DDO

1D4127 Hos,

5.

Rass Holmes/DDO

816 Ames

6.

7.

Hal Clark/DDS&T

6E45 Hiqs.

Chuck Peters/NFAC

3F30 Hqs.

8.

Jack Sullivan/DDA/OS

4E13 Has.

Al Prince/DDA/OP

*0 5E13 Hqs.

10.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number. each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drom a line otross column after each commant.)

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 SEDITIONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

21 November 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: George Frates

Chief, Records Systems Branch, RMD

FROM

: Jon E. Wolfe, RSB

SUBJECT : Status of Records Related to the HSCA Investigation

Attached for your perusal is the draft of an item scheduling

the CIA's HSCA-related records.

I suggest that this item be added to

the OLC records control schedule (as a restricted item) and submitted to

NARS for formal disposition approval.

(Col. Tagge of NARS has reviewed

the draft item and its disposition and is in basic agreement.)

2.

You will note that the proposed item addresses both film and

paper records.

The film duplicates those records which must be returned

to their original locations. All other records, such as those which

have already been duplicated on paper and those which were generated as

the result of the investigation will not be filmed.

3. Filming is currently underway in the DDO and is being done by

DO is not only filming and verifying its own files but also those of

the Uttice of Personnel. One estimate I have heard is that it will

require the DDO about one year to complete the job.

Filming is also either underway or being planned in the Office

of Security.

This process will be overseen by Jack Sullivan. The only

other film we have consists of DDS&T footage on the U-2. I have been

told that the latter is probably part of a permanent record series. If

it is, I suggest that it not be duplicated but rather cross-referenced

in our deposit.

Records that will be retired as paper are located in NAC,

I suggest that each of the holding components be respon-

sible for boxing, shelf listing, and sealing their respective records

and that all be retired under one job number. I further suggest that

once we are in our new vaulted area (sometime in December?) that we

serve as the focal point for collecting and depositing these records.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

If you concur with the attached records schedule item and the

substance of the above, I suggest that both be coordinated with the

other interested parties throughout the Agency.•

If no significant

problems are found, I will then see that the new item is submitted to

NARS.

Gant de

---

## Page 4

13-00000

MATERIAL HELD BY CIA RELATING TO THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS INVESTIGATIONS

Consists of all substantive documents and other materials created

or reviewed as the result of inquiries made of the. CIA by the House

Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) during its investigations into

the deaths of President Kennedy and Martin Luther King.

includes all ClA files requested for review, documents generated by the

HSCA as the result of its reviews, correspondence exchanged between the

CIA and the HSCA, and pertinent supporting documentation.

The bulk of

the collection consists of CIA files reviewed by the Committee and is

primarily in the form of 16mm roll film produced, stored, and inspected

in accordance with existing Federal standards for archival microfilm.

The microfilming was done in those instances when it was necessary to

return the paper files to their original locations

icrofilmed will be maintained or disposed of in accordance with NAR.

approved records control schedules covering the record series of which

Silver original 16mm microfilm which will be

stored & inspected in accordance with FPMR 101-11.506.

b. Supporting textual records not contained in (a) above.

DISPOSITION: Permanent.

Records to be retained by the Agency Archives

Not to be opened without the approval of the Legislative and Genera

Counsels.

---

