# 104-10183-10413

## Page 1

104-10183-10413

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Lemo for the Record

Meetineshisth A HIE/2 on 15-26 September 1965

1. AlWNIP/1 une met by the case offleer (usine the name "Vr. Will'")

In New York 15 and 16 September.. The firet meetias took placo at

the Ju Hid1 Restaurant, 487 Street id Be A

• and lasted fron

2115 until 2330 on 15 September. The second took place et the

Taft Hotel and lasted from 1315 until 1430.

2. A/I was told that we had so ipecific asslenments for him on his .

forthcoming business trip to burope and that he was not to édities

Initiate contact with officers at any of our

Ho was In

structed to send a cable to "dohn s. Breithelm, 6192 Apox Station,

washinston, D.C." saying where he could te contected if he should

learn anythine important andfalmely, such as the whereabouts of the

Guevara. It was also arreed that he could send an airmall letter

to the same address

1f he should acaulre thielitinfomation that was

perishable but could

safely be sent by mail. In either case he would

sien correspondence "Frencisco".

3. A/1 plans to depart for Europe about 20 September and to remain there

three to four weoks tefore returnine to New York. He plans to o

first to Italy and spend a week to ten days in some and Sillan. He

will then probably proceed to Geneva. He may of may not so to faris,

where he has no anecifie business. He plans to so to l'adrid for a dey

or two, not

on business, but to see relatives who are there axaltine

visas to the linited States,

4. Althourn a/1 was alven no specifle recuirements and was told not

to initiate contact with FIPK officerg in purore--a decision

freeched,

det his incoaclusire flutter in Audust---he nos tela to férni, eves

androners for any Infomation of Interest, ostecially 1f he should

do to farla and seolinario.

0z

---

## Page 2

14-00000

03

(K91E)

Re

w111 probably

Medrid at

the end

$

ey

of

his

re

he.

trip.

retting

them

the

when

he roes

3100

5. 0n 16

•nean all provided the dollnuine Information from a

letter he had recelved fron Almu1D/2 written 9 September:

a. N2 and his wife had lunch In Farls on 8 Septenter with

(TUSWA F11/18 and "popin" MATIN,TO, the VeTos Of Havaro, Tho

latter was proceedine to Rone and expressed Interest In

seeths il when he ing in Furope, but a/2 did not provide

details on N's trip or timlar.

Do ald had talked by telephone to

IGTESIAS, • Iriend

of A/l'a from Havana, who arein expressed Interest in seeing

A/1. InTReTas vas stayino at the Rotel Ta Corzan, Jose

Antonio 31, Madrid. He did not Indicate how lone he would

De in Europe or why he wished to see A/1.

c. A/2 had seen the Intest batch of Jewelry from Havana to

CUNENAR1/18 for disposal In Europe and 301d It was vert Door

merchandise except for an ungrecifled number of cold coing.

(The Ilteral definition of the Spanish edlectiro was "shitty" .)

6. A/1 suld that he receired no messaces from ABI 497/1-2-" except

for

for continued recuests from A/2 In Mored Main money. A'3' 1s cresumebly

«to 1/1 via k'1 ami!

still In Havena and there has been no confirmation of the dure rumoury

that he might be in trouble. All considers it odd that he's had no

word fron AlLaou/ since his return so Cube carller this year.

7. A/1 returned to New York 13 Sertenber ofter a trip of about a

weak to Sentini Plerio 91c0 (business) and Florida (Eloararel. In

s''ami he heard a rumor to the offect be (1/11 sold cuben lenalry in

Europe that had been brought there sad airen him by allast'l. ar

had shrusted it off---and sald it was untrue. He said the rumor had

started in l'adrid dith a man named eNT) NANAERETTA; and mas olden

hig in sinal by knISSO and effecto iIc"I.

N'1 19 stlll nolated by the colture of hla tro aldeply feedle

relatives in l'airld to acculre disas of ent kind

an.) calleres

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-3

good

8. A/l arpeared to le find rolaxed and in Nettil health. He said that

he was very busy at sort and that business is going nell, this is ene

reason that he deos not interd to remain in Furepo toe leag this ¿rio..

asociatien

Thorind He wanted these nestings to continue his idettiti with us in the

usual patters, 1odo restings telore and after his trips to Eurape. He prob

suspacts

ably toiltsid that our fallura to give bin any specific requirenents lind

combined with instructions not to contact our stations 1a a result, at least

in part, o? his inconciusive LOFLUTTER in Auguat. e did not cosolain, bon-

ever, ser react strengi. He still anticipates a further ICFLUTTER eR his

returg in Soanist..

9. A!1 said he vill call us ('''re ilills" or 'Ir. Freithela")en his return

Iran Surope.

03

@. 7. Febster)

---

