# 104-10419-10003

## Page 1

104-10419-10003

Khea

SUBJECT: " (Optionai)

•CIA letter to the Rockefeller Commission, dated

7 June 1975

FROM:

Requested by John S. Taylor & Dan P. Carroll

EXTENSION

16-3224

F 76-583

IPS/DDA

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

Marian Stoyanac

2E42 DX-2

X7486

R9271

6400

9581

DATE

28 September 1976

SUSPENSE

DATE

12 October 1976

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED.

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Drom o line across column after each commens,)

Mr. Paul Hildebrand

DCI/FIO

F-1, Amber, CX-2. pls. relay

Me. Sau Bolter)

9-28.260

10/7 5e5

"IC Seatt Brechemilgo

5.

In addition to the final

report, the requesters are asking

for any and all attachments.

Please review and determine

its release or denial.

Should this request become

quite costly, we ask that you

send us an estimate of fees for

the requesters.

Thank you

1.7

fre appopiato accon

and response ly

suspense dato

2-4: Trousferred to

You ser own telecon.

ETURN TO.

PRIORITY HANDLING

R5 3749

• SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

FOIA REQUEST

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

vpV

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- SEP Z8

1 00 AW'76 AUSTIN CLIEZENS COMMISSION OF INQUIRY

8709 Crestridge Circle

Austin, Texas

78759

Tele: (512) 258-5938

Working Copy

F-76-583

September 24, 1976

LOG/T01A

Freedom of Information Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act as

amended (5 U.S.C. 552).

I write to request a copy of the CIA letter to the Rocke-

feller Commission dated June 7, 1975.

To avoid any possible misunderstanding of what 1s being

requested, I make reference to the Final Report of the Select

Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to

Intelligence Activities, Book V. The Government Printing Of-

fice date of publication is April 23, 1976. The reference to

the note is made on page 58, footnote

65. My request Includes

any and all attachments of this letter as transmitted to the

Rockefeller Commission by your organization.

As you know, the amended act provides that if some parts

of a file are exempt from release that "reasonably segregable"

portions shall be provided. I therefore request that, if you

determine that some portions of the requested document are

exempt, you provide me Immediately with a copy of the remain-

der of the letter. I, of course, reserve my right to appeal

any such decisions.

If you determine that some or all of the letter is exempt

from release, I would appreciate your advising me as to which

exemptions or exemption you believe covers the material which

you are not releasing.

My organization is prepared to pay reasonable costs for

locating the requested document and reproducing it.

As you know, the amended act permits you to waive or reduce

the fees If that

"Is in the public interest because furnishing

the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the

public." I believe that this request plainly fits that category

and ask that you waive any fees.

If you have any questions regarding this FOIA request, please

telephone me at the above number.

As provided for in the amended act, I will expect to receive

a reply within ten (10) working days.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

We appreciate the cooperation which we hope we will receive

and look forward to future requests.

Our address and telephone number are listed above.

Thank you.

Sincerely,

aylor, Directo

Dan P. Carroll, Ass't. Director

i.

Pit"

F/:

JST/bb

enc:0

i.s...

312d.

---

