# 104-10529-10355

## Page 1

104-10529-10355

poet

DURIT.:

BA!!:

•I. I. MEAUIRI

OCT

1451

BOOK WEBBAGE AS BELON

CLASSISIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Toer FACET

" i,

•ROUTI ER:

-CUL 76219

PAID:

NEAR BAST - APRICA BAISS (TOR LIÁISON) (MONORS La BLURTS)

COCO: /CURRENT POLITICAL RANSUVERISS FILIN TE CONO

LOSE COUSINSAS MAX DE AXINO AT LA BARACHINE O SEALS ADOULL.

SO OF APOLLAYS ANATIS NER TORS CLOTST LISTORIES BAYS

TO BEYLACE TIR PRESLIT COVERSIST. ACCODINO TO CLANDABTINS SOURCES.

THE CHATTE IS TO BE HADED EY LANATER CY DIPIRE FENNE

AND THIOR SINISTER MABOTY. TAS INITIS PLAN TO GUANTT THE

DOCUMORS TO PRESIDENT LABAVUSU VOR A SIGHATURE TODAY.

WAS SOUR VICH IS CANALLY VESTERN ORDITRO, IS TORRIED

BY THE STEPPED UP ACTIVITIES OF THE EXTRIE IPTIST NATIONALISTS;

AS VALL AS IT LABOR GROUP AGITITION FOR A MEN GOVERNET.

TUE!

iS B.C.BR

REAKODUCTONEY,

BSUING QUAGE EACHITED

---

## Page 2

OLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORiG

NEXT

DATE

: TO

FROM:, PRECIOR

CONT

IÑFO

:TO"

13:09:

ROUTINI

INFO

HAVE ALAO LOSS BIN CONCH FITS IN LACKLUSTER LIA

MIT CHIST CRIMEAL MOSUTO MAX AB CO

AT LANET BAX DICTILT SUPPORT 178 ARMB.

COME BRAMPLI CRITICAL OF ADOULA

CiTE GIR"

78219

RSHIP AND

ПОЯНА ОЖ TE COUP OR

ADAR ARRA CONTINUS.

PRESS STORIES THAT SAE

MED BETOU

IM AN HIAD TAT 2, 500

OBOOSAR TROAPS ARS MIRAGED ARE STILL COGBA

ALGERIAH AIR..

TRIES SER 14O MILES TO CRAST BOOR I1 Peas ou 1e cer.

W IN AND IS OPIATIONAL SEAT? HAVS TALIaNE sITE

NADO BARTERS AT HARRAKBCH ACOURITE, 35 HTLAB BARTE CI TIAJOUS.

HE APART IS DISG USED AS THE DORA BOROCCAR BABE.

LE ADITION, AN ALERT 18 BETA BAIPTAINED ALONE TA BASTRE

OROCCAR BOEDER, A

MANE ALGERIAN

APER BAS BEST RSZRPORCIDO ITS BORDER UNITS IN THE BONNA-TLESCEN

8&C BB T

Famed 1Jin and

¡pectested are al

REPIODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CinDy the

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFEO MESSAGE

SKCRET

76217

ARCA

BEN BRALA'S ENVOYS ARRIVED IN MARRAKECH 15 OCT FOR IALES EXTE

MOROCCAN OPPICIALS, HUICH REPORTADLY DEN NUT GO WELL.

3. TURKHY,; THE: INONU GOVERNIENT BAS INDICATED MAT IT WIlL

EXTEND MARTIAL LAWTOR THO ADDITIONAL MONTHS, PRESURABLY BECAUSE

OF CONTINUING UNSETTLED POLITICAL CORDITIONS

TAIS VILL BE THE

TAXED KATENSION SINCE TIE ABORTIVE MILITARY COUP OP LAST MAX:

REGIORAL AND LOCAL ELACTIONS SCHADULED FOR 17 NOVERKR NAT MOG BE

POSTPO/LD. (CONF)

AS PRANCE IRANC PRIME MINISTRI ALAN EIFICES DE COULLA FO

ONT ER IRAN SCONCHIC ASSISTANCE, PRIMARILY CASDITS PORTIE PETRO

CHRIS CAL INDUSTRY AND ELICTRIFICATION, DURINO A POUR DAY VIBIT TO

TRAT THICH BECINS TODAY ALAN DID BOT SPECTRY THE ANOUXT OS TIE

CREDIT FRENCH SOURCES DESCRIBE TUR VIBIST AB BLANCELY CEREMONIAL

OF TUB IRANIAN PARLIANANT TOMORROT

(CONT)

ENDOR MESSAGE

Walle / Kintart

---

