# 104-10167-10400

## Page 1

104-10167-10400

SECP.ET

(HEN FILLED IN

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

1 FE3. 60

PINOR TO FILING

I. "Fill in Sec:--2:

on bacis. Detach back

flap and --ward to RID.

2. Destroy fres: cover sheet, anless it

records similicant action taken or

corsents rectiring preserracion.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Is file no, asd title shown are not

proper.

irsert proper "ile no. below

and forrard document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON ENCE. IF APPROPRLATE

COMMENTE

42,÷ 25019727

TO

HoOM

NO

DATE

OFFICER'S

FOAWadDED:

INITIALS

1.

16 JUN 1961

COPY DETACHED

2.

WH/HEI

11 Tub c

phillips

MANKY.

WH/4/PA

10.

18.

12.

13.

140.

15.

1.

TH/4 REGISTRY

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE ASGROTILALE

INDEE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

PILE TITLE

FILE RUMBER (PRIMART CODE!

261-196035

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

cale?,

71C 17Ch

TO

NFO

FROM

SUALECT

gold

Chiet co pase, Jrris

Operatione s/JMATE AUSADE O

VET1O PARFERS, LATE Ils ChipP or Radio

FrgEaranda

ACTON REQUIRED

Hore, for triortation and files

REPRENCES

DATE

TE: "AI m ICHECI " ONE):

WHALED FOR INDELNG

"O FCDUNG REOLIZED

*COUNG CAN RE LOGED

BY QUALIRED HO, DESK OVLY

1. AMOT -14 reported that Marie BARRERA told a1- that he 13

currertly corring for AVDIP-1 in revspaper propaganda

and is in charze of radio propaçanda for 2-1. BARRERA:

told A-14 that i-? pays him a salary be $150.00 a

month

for his services, but still orea hin his va, salary.

2. Accordire to A-id, 1t 1s leing miored throuchout Miari

that F.VDIP-1 has over $300,000.10 deposited 1n an

unidertifled bark in Mario The source o? these funds,

1° true, 13

not enoin.

Stre Ra

SRZ: 1pw

12 June 1961

Distribution:

3 = WH Division

311-196.435

USE MEVIOLS EDITOP

CLASSECATON

PAGE NO

---

