# 104-10186-10219

## Page 1

104-10186-10219

NEURMATION REPORTH

INFORMATION REPORTA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba /Dominican Republic

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/02516-64

SUSJECT

Baldemiro CASTRO Garcia

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

11 December 1966 CIP

2

RETURN T

1.

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Hashington, D. C.

DATE ACO.

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

I former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubar

ntellirence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a sertes containing personality

Information

provided by the source and includes supplemental

information

from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no netion on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checising with this Agency.

Source identified Baldemiro CASTRO Garcia, a

Dominican, as

of the Marxist-Leninist Moviniento

Popular Dominicano (MPD) who was a student at the guerrilla

warfare training school In Cuba.

Source only saw CASTRO

and this was

at the home

of the delegate of the

pro Castro Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ) in

llabana.

being abou

5

G/PS

STATE

Headquarters Comments:

1.

The representative of the APCJ in Habana was probably

Socrates Isaias "Pupo" PEGUERO Sehourer.

A usually

reliable source reported in TDCS-314/05506-64 that

PEGUERO will be removed from his position as representitive

of the APCJ in Habana, and will be replaced by Daniel

MATIAS Abrau, who Is now in Habana.

According to angther source CASTRO

Is white, 5'10°

, has

• pock-marked face, kinky hair, and is "pop-eyed."

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEN

16-10

T DIA

ARMY

AIR

REP CINCLANT CINCSO # TENS

INSA

I say

•TALSO SENT TO

INEORMATIONN

REPORT

WIL SA/EOB UNE/ 5/R

HH: SNMOBLLLHE

NU/SA/R (1 WHIE/DR

15-2

BLID'AY

INFORMATION RERORT

| WH

1: LX-1828

SO PROJECI (AVMLS1)

{SC1-316/02516-641

MI'HUIE

Mil:$A 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 6, RID 1, WH 1(1)

4141800%

¡COOFOINATING

MH/2 DR 13:10

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO

FOREIG DISSEd

CSCI-316/0>546-64

- 2 as

3.

In May 1960 an untested source, who was then a member of the MPD.

said that CASTRO was probably Secretary of Workers" Aflaire on

the central Committee of the MPD:

• (Sec CS-3/511,325) • An|

reported. in CS-3/561,001 that CASTRO arrived in

Kingston, Jamaica, on 18 September 1963 en route to Habana as m

delegate to attend the Seventh Congrees of the International Union

of Architects, to be held from 29 Septender to 3 October 1963.

His passport.

No. 115933, Assued on 10 September 1963,

started

that he was born

on 5 May 19.8 in Santo Domingo and that he was

an industrial employee.

In December 1963 an untested source, a

member of the upD, reported that the first rebel groups

under

the direction of th

MPD had been formed at Mato Mayor and at

• El selbo, in the eastern part of the Dominican Republic, and that

the Fato Mayor group, composed of about 150 men

parties, was under

the leadership of koman Baldemiro CAstro.

(See TDCS 3/567, 279) •

In October 1964 CASTRO 13 reported to hav

returned to the Dominican Republic from Cuba. (See CS-311/06078-64) •

CASTRO is married to Ana Mercedes ESPINAL, and they have s1x

children.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

---

