# 104-10183-10349

## Page 1

104-10183-10349

IN TO CIA

wund Use Only,

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

CLASUIICATAW

SECRET

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

INFO

FIRORA -

SUBJEGT

Chier of Station, JAMAVE t

Operational TYPIC

Transmittal of PRQ_II fort ANNUG/1

ACTION RIQUIRED - RETERENCES

OA requested

Xxxs

PROCESSING

MANNES 9:8 SOC12/90

Ly Sidifi:

ABSTRACT

0215-1

Transmitted herewith are three copies of Subject's

PRQ II. Please process for Operational Approval for use

as outlined in Section V, Paragraph 4.

Lui ANDREW K. REUTENAN

Attachment:

IDENS u/s/c

PRQ II (3 cc h/#)

Distribution:

3 - DC, WH/SA (w/atts, a/s)

2 it. "

iS COPY

CLASNFEATION

SECRET

DA'E TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

5 Feb 65

FEE 1 € 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

UFGA-19738

HEA QUARTERD FLE NURECR

+ 201-719651

---

## Page 2

SECRET

PRQ NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNA IRE

PART 11 • OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATUFGA- 19738

Para /son.aute 8.

Paraalson

INSTRUCTIOUS TO CASE OFFICER

ad in by the

olfaçor os appropriato eulhoraly on lho Basso of the Beal a006l08lo la

332222

Thro

Dal

1° LeNie de addicional space receired

СПУРТОНТА

AMMUG/1

2. PSCUDONYA

SECTION D

COM TACT AND DEVELOPMENT

INDICATE MOM, OMEM, THERE, ONY, AND DY BHOR SUBURCE MAS FIRSS COMPACTO OR DEVELOPEO.

MMUG/1 is a former Cuban intelligence service officer wh

defected in Canadà 21 April 1964.

t. that time A/1 requeste

and was granted asylum in the United States. With the assistance

•f INS he was allowed to enter

ADICANE "HE SER SUBICAY DOLO DE TURNEO OVER QUICALY ANO IN A SECURE MANMER TO ANY RESPONSIOLE CASE ORFICER NO

LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS AMO HAVE MAMOLED SUBJECT OR MHOM ME KNONS OR MAS KVOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY NAVE

"ll of the case officer who have met Subject are not known to th

writer; however, it is known that Identities A

through E (forwarde

under separate cover attachment) have met Subject under alias.

1-5, 1050a uso cerrous certrons.

11138

SECRET

18.298

161-144451

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECTICA

SECRET

MOTIVATION AN- 6.D1ROL

Subject's declared motivation is complete disenchantment with the

Cuban

revolution

and the Cuban Government as it currently

dence that Subject planned his defection is shown by the fact that when

he defected he had prepared himself br procuring classified material

from the DGI files on the CIS which he brought with him.

LADICARE ONAS CORTHOL, 18 A4Y. ANISES ONER THE SUBURES, (8l ma Conscol, de ol ehere d9, 0 lock of road coneral

Subject is currently on the payroll and his family is still in

Cuba.

We are attempting by all means possible to procure permission

subject's family to depart Cuba and are prepared to pay the cost thereon

COVER USCO BY SUBJECT AND CASÉ OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINES.

Meetings with Subject are always set up in advance in a secure area

or safehouse and therefore no cover is needed for such meetings.

COVER USEO BY SUBJECT IN DATAINING NIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTAGING HIS INFORMANIS.

NA

87856886

SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT ININKS ME (Hell DOrk) (is mortena).

Subject is aware he is working for KUBARK.

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE COMMECTICRS AND TRAINING

CAPRAIS SUBJIET'S ANOMA PAST OR PRESENT CONMECTION MITH ADY DINER INTELLIGENCE SINVICE, INDICATE THE ERTENT

SUCH

CONTECTION IS ANOWA OVERTLY.

Prior

to his defection Subject had been a member of the Cuban In

telligence Service

in the DGI Section for a period ofnine months.

At the time of his defection Subject was Salvadorian desk officer

for the DGI.

LIST OINER INDIVIQUALS (ARENES.

relatives, Serends) MuD ANDa Do SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE aCTIvelIES.

Since his defection Subject has been used in making recruitment

pitches to several targets of interest throughout Latin America and

Western Europe.

For this reason there is no doubt that the CIS has

knowledge that Subject is cooperating with the US Government in intelli-

gence activities.

EXPLAIY

ART BRAINIYE SUBJECT MAS MAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATINOS

Subject was

trained in all phases of clandestine intelligence

activities by theIS.

SECTION Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INSICATE DINER FOLLIN POMER SUBICE MOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO EVILADORATE DITH ARCAUSE DE MIS IDEOLOGY DE NAST

If Subject were to disassociate himself from his current connections

vith the US Government,

he would

collaborate with any

ther government which would be involved in attemoting to bring about

the overthrow of the current regime in Cuba.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SECTION

OPCRATICNAL USE - CONTACT

SUBLICE HAS BIRD VIED DR CORTALTED BIONA, INDICATE ACTIOIRS 1 OMICO ME MAS IAGASTO 89G Ta INDe OF 1082M..

Subject has been

thoroughly debriefed on his knowledge of CIS

activities,

organization,

and personalities.

In addition, as explained

in Section

IV,

Para l above,

Subject has also been used in recruitment

attempts of CIS agents outside

of Cuba:

INDICATE MOR AND EROR INDA SUBJECI OBTAINS

INFORMATIOn.

NA

" Subfeet"Is o

aware that ke 15 employed by kOBAlkand must assume

that any

Information he furnishes will be disseminated to appropriate

US Government agencies.

• DETAIL SUbJeCt Will continue to me set a the acquisition of litormatio

CIS agents outside of Cuba:

5. DETAIL SUBJECT•S PROPOSIO PR-PA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

NA

24

SECTION VI

10A SUBJECT'S PROPS 241

PROPOSEd

A. THERE SUBIECE IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AL

OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

O. MHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL ALMBER OF AN DOVOKE AGENCY:

SECTION VIIE

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

HEREIM TATEME!

AGENCY

RELATIONSHSE ITH SUBJECT: I.L. TRAINER, OPPOSITE NUMBER, RENUMERATICO, IF ANTI AGENCY

ERSONMEL AMORM TO SURIEL!

Agency relationship with subject will continue as described in

above paragraphs.

Subject is receiving a salary of approximately $500.

take-home-pay per month.

No Agency personnel are known to be known to

Subject in their true name.

SECRET

3200

---

## Page 5

SECTION 1A

SECRET

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTNER CPERATIONS

CA QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED iN SUBIECE EMICA

OnE: 19

None other than those described

in above paragraphs.

SECTION *

P8 IS PROPOSIO TO PAI SURJECT A REGULAD SALARY.

INDTEATE THE PUFALY ANQUNT, IF PATWIST iO DE MADE NO ENCHANDE

SUASIDE OR DUNLA MESMOD, SPICIO AND GIVI DETAILS.

Subject will receive approximately $125,00 per week take-home-pay.

CH8N 8H08418

OPMRADISE NOT COULRED MENEIN.

and famedg.

MADE-TO SUBJICT. (EnOlO:

редаросов. он

Subject has been promised

that KUBARK will attempt by all means

within its power to remove Subject's family from Cuba.

Subject can be

provided banuses up to $1,000.00 for outstanding performance as adjudged

INWAVE or Headquarters.

line of duty his widow will

event of Subject*s death In the

recedve a lump cum payment of $3,000.00

ECTION FI

CE-AND• SECURITY

INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCILS AND

Field

MAtIONS WITH WHICH

SUBJECT'S MAGE MAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

no derogatory results.

agences checks were completed on Subject

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MLASURES TANER PO VERITY GOGNITEN INTERGON FURNISHCO ON SUBJECT.

Subject was given

furnished, results of which were favorable.

ICFLUTTER examination to verify information

INDICATE

#HETMEO OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPENATIONAL

PROVAL FOR

APFROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP.

SUBJECT'S USE NAS BEES PREVIQUSLY CATAINEO.

B. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

POA was granted

18 May 1964

EVALUATE

SUBJECT'S CHARACTER.

Subject

Is a personable, Intelligent and foresighted individual and

has proven himself to be quite self-confident and courageous in his

recruitment attempts in the past.

He is quick-thinking and has per-

formed excellently in all tasks assigned to him.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN MICH SUBILCI MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED PNICO MUST BE EVALUATEO AROM A

The possibility exists that in the near future Subject may be

surfaced before the Organization of American States.

For this reason

JMWAVE is providing Subject with a cover company which is in no way

connected with

other JIWAVE assets, personnel, or agents.

SECTION XIL

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

• USE OF LIQUOR. ORUGS.

CAMBLING. PARAMOURS.

Subject has an occasional drink or beer and smokes cigars on

occasion.

He is not known

to use drugs, gamble or have paramours.

• SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

SECTICN XINT

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

INDICATE SUBSECTS MORBIES OR INTERESS IN SPORES.

HusrC. arc

Subject is an avid baseball fan and fisherman.

SECTION XIV

GEI ERAL

INDICATE MALTHER SUBJECT'S 'LANGUACE

.OF A COUNTAY OR' REGION DINER THAN MIS DEN.

ABILITIES ANO DIMER CHARACIERISTIES, AME SUEM AS ME COULO PASS AS ATA

ExPLAtA.

Subject is completely fluent in the Spanish language although

with a slight Cuban accent.

He could probably pass as a native of

another country provided he is not speaking with a native of that

country but of another country.

INDICATE UNETHÉN INTORMATION IN PRO PARTS I NÃO 11 MAS OBTAINED BY RESTANCO, CLANDESTINE ASSESSHINE, EFLES.

PONDENCE OR OTHER

"Information contained herein was obtained by file research and

personal contact with Subject.

1s

OS SUPRAS ACTION 1S ALQUIRED. IE ANO UMÉM TERMATION DE SURUCT IS EIFECTED: FLGASE EXPLAN 11100

No action other than routine is anticipated if and when Subject

terminated.

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRAMGEMENTS

GIVE FUEL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, SINI NHERE COULO CONTACT DE MADEI MAT BORA I IDES COULO INDIVIOUAL

MARING CONTACT USEI

Subject could be contacted by any case officer who uses as a

referent the name of Bermmentry

or Matt Yagian.

Baney

SECTION XVI

None.

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARRS

SIGNATURE OF APFROÖNIATE SEMIOR OFFICER

5

SECRET

---

