# 104-10071-10166

## Page 1

104-10071-10166

31.

SECRET

ROUTING

•53

FROM: INWAVE.

ACTION:

1vdo

NO:

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, DO/M, CA ?, CA/PEG,

Fl, F1/D, FJ/INT B, RI/AN, Whi 11, WH/SA 12

CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CT, CT/OPS, CT/IC

•FILE, CS/RF

SECRET 8723146-7

DIR INFO LANT

16-10

16-8

8 DEC 64

81312

BARRU

CUTE WAVE 5812

INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM PORUMEN

SUPDATA: CUCAMBER STRAWMAN STRAWMAN USED, RODULFO ALSO TOLOCO THAT

HE WAS RECENTLY INTERROGATEO B: DOSOON AGENTS WAG LEO RODOLFO

BELIEVE TOUSSAINT COMMIE, ALSO, AGENTS ASHLO HIM ASCUT COD

RODOLFO TOLDCSE THAT ML TOLD COGDON AGENTS HE ANY C3

C. FROM OLD

DAYS. BID: INDEX, FILED: 07/23114

REPORT CLASS ONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLCO DISSEM

COUNTRY: HANTI/CUBA

SUBUECT: VISIT TO PEDRO VALOIVIA ROMERO BE RODOLFO MAGRESRER

ROJAS ON BAHALF HAS BROTHER ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DO1: 4 DEC 64

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (T OLL 64)

COMMENT

IN: 37891

WH/REG

_13!

WH / 2/DRH/RE 3

/г.

CHARLES J. BAtMAN

| DATE DISTRIBUTED

S DECEMBER 1964

03087

SECRET

TDCS 0B-315/01594-64

X ROUTINE

BASED ON: UFG: 6307.

NO PROJECT

PRIORITY

LIAISON

PALSFERREK

864

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-2.

BUR MOTI

CONFIDENTIAL

STAGLUED DISSER

o ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTELLIGSNCE AGENEY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

HAITI

4 DECEMBER 1964

TDCS DB-315/01594-64

DISTR. 8 DECEMBER 1964

SUBJECT

MESSAGE FOR PEDRO VALDIVIA ROMERO FROM ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROJAS, TRANSMITTED BY RODOLFO MASFERRER. ROJAS

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (7 DECEMBER 1964)

SOUNCE

AND

AFPRAISAL:

REF

IN 378913

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 6307

A FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT ONE TIME RESIDED IN MAITI

AND THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIE.. HE STILL MAINTAINS FAIRLY CLOSE FRIEIOSHIPS

WITH OFFICIALS OF THOSE COUNTRIES, SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER AND HIS

INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED

FROM A PERSON WHO SPOKE WITTI RODOLFO MASFERRER ROJAS:

1.

ON 4 DES 54 RODOLFO MASFERRER ROJAS BRA "KIK!," PAID

AN UNFXPECTED VISIT TO THE HOME OF PEDRO VALDIVIA ROMERO AND

TOLD HIM THAT HE WAS REPRESENTING HIS BROTHER ROLANDO WASFERRER

ROJAS WHO HAD THE FOLLOWING MESSAGE FOR WALDIVIA. PAUL TOUSSAINT

DID NOT HAVE A CHANCE TO SUCCEED IN HIS PLAN TO OVERTHROW HAITIAN

PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

CONSIDEREO TOUSSAINT TO BE PRO-COMMUNIST. THE ONLY HAITIAN EXILE

LEADER WHO HAS A CHANCE TO SUCCEED AGAINST DUVALIEP AND #HO ALSO

HAS THE APPROVAL OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT IS FORMER HAITIAN

PRESIDENT PAUL MAGLOIRE. RODOLFO TOLE VALDIVIA THAT ROLANCO WANTED

CONFIDENTIAL

MANASSI

MANT

42/01 2,

JOINE

CONTHOLLED DISSEM

SECOEF

NSA

USJA

FBI IONS CUSTOME

EXC

BORDER PATROL COAST GUARD

---

## Page 3

14-0006

VALDEVIA TO ACER MAGLOTRE,

2. RODOLEO ALSONTOLD VALDEVIA THAT VALDIVIA WAS BEING

WATCHED SYNTHE AMERICAN AUTMORITIES BECAUSE OF HIS SONNECTION

WITH HAITIAN EXILES, ROLANDO IS TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

SOMETIME IN THE FUTURE VHEN ROLANDO HOPES TO MECT VITIN VALDEVIAG

3. FIELD DISSON CINCLINT, CINCSO, COMESTIOR, MIAMT REPS

OF STATE, FOI, CÚSTOMS, 4AMS,

SNODER PATROL, AND USCO.

(ALSO SENT

PORT-AU-PRINCE, SAlTO COMINGO.)

3976933

(END Gi MiSSACE)

---

