# 104-10234-10053

## Page 1

104-10234-10053

=i=

SOVANCE COPT

INTO

DalurkA 3

MR. FILE, DOP

X. 3

ECR

ET 031539Z

i..

PRIORITY DIR CITE

DEBTSAT SEPSE YOBITE ANVORLD ALASK

; 3FE065172925

REF DIR 81857

1o ASLASH/I WAS ADVISED PER REF 1108 HOURS 3 FES. HE WAS

VISIBLY MOVED AND DISILLUSIONED MITH NEGATIVE REPLY. STATED ME

DECEIVED HIMSELF INTO BELIEVING THAT OUR LONG RELATIONSHIP HAD DEVELOPED

MUTUAL CONFIDENCE, BUT APPARENTLY HE WAS URONG. CLAIMS HE WOULD HAVE

-NEVER MADE REGREST IF HE HAD HAD SLIGHTEST DOUBT REQUEST VOULD BE

REFUSED. HE FEELS SUCH AN INCIDENT 1S BOUND TILEAVE BITTER TASTE

VITH ALL PARTIES CONCERNED AND VOULD HAVE NUCH PREFERRED TO HAVE

AVOIDED RAISING QUESTION. HE INTERPRETS REFUSAL AS LOW ESTEEM IN

WHICH HE IS MELD BE KUBARK. ONTRICH URGED ALASH! TO APPROACH

AMBIDDY FOR FINDS BUT ME VERY COOL TO THIS PROPOSE TEN AND FEELS

•DO AHO AIFT BENDIN 1W.

CONDUIT THROUGH WHICH FUNDS REACH HIM OF LITTLE IHPORTANCE SINCE HE

CONVINCED ANGERE IS STA SUAR FUNDS ANGE STATES NIS

ACQUALNTANCESHIP

SONTH OLD AND TO

10 HI3

HE QUEST MONEY EROC

HIN

I BOUND CREATE PROBLENS.

ANLASH/I STATED HE

IE LASE AND CHA BECOME PILLEM THEM SON MISS

MEANS CUTTINE AVE CONSTILED VE

21403

TWO OR THREE MORE CUBANS WMICH ME RELUCTANT TO DO

ПОД РОТЕ УМЕНТЫ СУ НЕГЬ НІД•

19 1989% bueRs

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SPORET

BUT FEELS AMSHIP/I CAM HELP KIM.

#o 72925 79682

20 ALTHOUGN ARLASH/! DID NOT DISPLAY BITTERNESS AND IN FACT

DEBEFORE MUST PROCEED EGARDLESS O

TATED HE WAS CONNITTED AND 1ASH1960440010014-405600

PROBLENS, ME IS TYPE WID CAN BICONE BITTER AFTER SLOW BURN. SANCE

AHLASH/I RELUCTANT APPROACH AMBIDDY/! FOR FUNDS AND OUR REFUSAL

UNDOUBTEDLY SERIOUS BLOW TO MES PRIDE AND MORALE, SUGGEST HEADQUARTERS

MAY BE CONSIDER HAVING AMMHIP/S GIVE ANLASH! THE MONEY AND LATER

REIMBURSE ANUHIP/DO

5 ABOVE FULLY DISCUSSED WITH STOCKWOOD WHO WILL REMAIN IN CONTACT

ANUNIPAL AND AMLASWI IF CONTACT NECESSARY ONTRICH DEPARTING PARI

1600 HOURS 3 FEB•

SÉCRET

...

so.t

---

