# 104-10185-10179

## Page 1

104-10185-10179

NEORMATION

REPOR

INFORMATIONAREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBECT Angelito (LNU)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oniy

Cs CX-316/0229-Ngt Reproduce

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 10)

8 July 1964

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE #

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (February 1965).

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINTIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence.

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Angelito (LNU) 18, according to Source, & Spaniard. His name

has appeared on documents from the Departamento Escuelas

Especiales (Department of Special Schools - FE) of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence • DGI) concerning reports

have been instructing Guatemalan guerrill students.

He may

1. Headquarters Comment.

The records of this Agency reveal no

Identifiable Information on Angelito (LNU).

5

4/pV

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CAOUR Y

AIR

INSA

1 XM

I OcR

SHA THAN THAN

IFBI

REPC INCLANT

CINCSO #

"Note: Field distribution indicated by "#"-)

I&NS

2

VINFORMATION RERORT #INFORMATION REPORT

WE/S/R

CI/LIA

LX-2423

AHC/NO.

WHC/RE

WE

CI/R&:A

NP . (AMMUG--1)

L/WASH

CSCI-316/02285-

WHC/OS

5

RID/AN

65

WHC/WAVE 11

COORDIMATING RE

TOTALS WHC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CI 4, RID 1

LIAISON 4

9: eb

'R&A

19-5-1

---

