# 104-10107-10008

## Page 1

104-10107-10008

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

наі ?,ї

11 January 1977

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION

Division Security Officer

FROM

SE/X/LA

SUBJECT

: Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the

United States Government

REFERENCE: USA V. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al. (76-371-CR-CA)

1. During the period of my employment as a Special Agent at the

Drug Entorcement unlit treet

Jon 197), l conducted an

interview of Gerald Patrick Hemming (DPOB. 1 March 1937, at Los Angeles,

California) on 23 May 1975 at DEA Headquarters in Washington, D.C.

My report concerning that interview has become part of the case file

in USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al., Case Number 76-371-CR-CA,

Southern District of Florida, Miami, Florida.

2. Upon my entrance on duty in SE Division on 5 January 1977,

I orally informed the Division Security Officer, Billy Hix, about

the information in paragraph 1 above.

Mr. Hix asked me to submit

the information in writing as soon as I was settled in the Division.

On 7 January 1977, however .,Special Agent Robert Fredericks

telephonically contactedl

DC/SE/X/LA, and told her that

the United States Attornery, Southern District of Florida, had

requested that I appear at the U.S. Courthouse, Miami, Florida on

10 January 1977 to confer with the Assistant United States Attorney,

Karen L. Atkinson, regarding my appearance as a witness in behalf of the

U.S. Government in the trial of Gerald P. Hemming.

3.

During the afternoon of 7 January 1977 I conferred with Mr. Hix

who advised me to contact the Office of the General Counsel.

I talked

to Mr. Edmund Cohen who advised me to get in touch with the Office of

Security, External Activities Branch (OS/EAB). I completed an

Outside Activity Approval Request (Form 879), obtained the concurrence

of DC/SE, Mr. John Stein, and submitted the Form 879 to OS/EAB.

OS/EAB sent me to Central Cover Staff (Mr. Blandford) and then to the

Office of the General Counsel. After discussions with Mr. Cohen, I called

---

## Page 2

14-00000

S/A Fredericks in Miami at Mr. Cohen's suggestion. S/A Fredericks was

not available.

Mr. Cohen then advised me to return to my office and

he would contact me with further instructions. Mr. Cohen retained

the Form 879. Subsequently, Mr. Cohen advised me that I should travel

to Miami as requested and that CIA would reimburse me for expenses

connected with my activities in behalf of the U.S. Government.

further advised me that being in an overt cover status I should state,

if asked under oath, that I am currently a CIA employee.

4. On 10 January 1977 I traveled to Miami where I met and

conferred with AUSA Karen Atkinson and DEA S/A Robert Fredericks.

They informed me that Gerald P. Herming's case had been severed and

his trial would not begin on 1l January. AUSA Atkinson told me she

wanted me as a rebuttal witness if Gerald P. Hemming presented the

lefense that he had been working at the direction of DEA. She saic

they would not call me until and unless that defense was presented.

She also said that she felt that any attempt to question me concerning

illy current place of employment was irrelevent and she would object to

any such line of questioning. She said she would only ask me where

I was employed at the time I interviewed Hemming. I returned to

Washington D.C.

he suite dugo:

03

Distribution:

CCS

- OS

1

- OGC

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

16 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Edmund Cohen

Assistant General Counsel

U.S.

v. Hemming

1. On 22 November 1977 the undersigned accompanied by Messrs.

... 03

Gary Mattocks and Robert Barteaux, travelled to Miami to confer with

Judge Hoeveler, and Aesistant U.S. Attorney Thomas M. Sherouse, Un District

Court, Southern District of Florida, about subject case. Messrs.]

Mattocks had dealt with Mr. Hemming while they were employed by the Drug

Enforcement Administration and Mr. Sherouse wanted them available as rebuttal

witnesses. Mr. Barteaux also was sought as a possible rebuttal witness to describe

the Agency's relationship with Mr. Hemming in the event that Hemming raised a

CIA defense.

ola

2. On 23 November Mr.

Mr.. Barteaux and the undersigned met in

chambers with Judge Hoeveler, Mr. Sherouse, Mr. Roger Howard, law clerk to

Judge Hoeveler, and Mr. Ted Sakowitz, Public Defender for the Southern District

of Florida. Mr. Sherouse decided that Mr. Mattocks would not be required to

testify and he did not attend the meeting. The Judge initially expressed some reluc-

tance to have an ex parte conference because Mr. Hemming had assumed primary

responsibility for his own defense with only limited assistance from the Public

Defender. The Judge insisted that a transcript of the meeting be made but he

promised that the transcript would be sealed and, in fact, would not be transcribed.

3. The undersigned indicated that the Agency had no interest in the outcome

of the case and interposed no objection to the introduction of any relevant information.

Our sole concern was to protect Mr E

and his relationship with CIA both before

and after his DEA employment. The Judge was informed that Mr?

Osole con-

nection with Herming was on 23 May 1975 and that he had no contact with Hemming

during any period of Agency employment. The national security consequences of

exposure of Mr.

as well as the career consequences were outlined. In addition,

the Judge was informed that Mr. Barteaux was prepared to testify as an overt Agency

employee about any relationship between Hemming and CIA.

SECRET

ER IMPDET CL BYQ35114

---

## Page 4

03

4. Judge Hoeveler asked Mr. Sakowitz to cross-examine Mr.

determine whether he had any information which might be relevant to Hemming's

defense. Mr. Sakowitz stated that although he was aware that Mr. Hemming wished

to call Mr.

as a witness, he was not fully informed of all aspects of the case

and, therefore, reluctant to question Mr.!

Thereupon, Judge Hoeveler,

swore in Mr

and proceeded to ask him a series of questions to determine

whether Mr.

interaction with Mr. Hemming had been in any way connected

with his CIA employment. At the conclusion of this examination the Judge gave

Mr. Sakowitz a second opportunity to question Mr'3

and when Mr. Sakowitz

again declined, he stated that in light of the national security consequences which

had been brought to his attention he was not inclined to permit questions relating

• CIA employment.

5. At the conclusion of the conference in chambers, but before the jury was

admitted into the courtroom, Mr. Sherouse informed Mr. Hemming that Mr.

was available as a witness.

When the trial proceeded Mr. Hemming concluded

his defense without calling Mr

Mr. Sherouse, however, did call Mr: 03

has a rebuttal witness. On cross-examination Mr. Hemming asked Mr

whether he was with CIA. Mr. Sherouse promptly objected to the question, the

Judge sustained the objection and Mr. Hemming went on to the next question. The

trial concluded soon afterwards without Mr. Barteaux being called as a witness.

It was subsequently learned that Mr. Hemming was found guilty as charged.

Stil She

Edmund Cohen

EC: jz

Distribution:

Original - ETSATION-CRIMINAL, emming Gerald P.

1 - Chrono

SECHES

---

## Page 5

14-00000

TO

THRU:

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITTES BRANCH

DATE

DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

(Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)

NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print or

COMPONENT

ROOM NO. AND BLDG.

PHONE

FROM:

10/3

5929

FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY

APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS

CONCERNED. DATES. LOCALE. ETC. (Refer to

HR 10-7 before completing)

03

1Se are.

tran

*Jordon tre 305-110:910,

in rac

rald Fitrick h

I come doll dance meal did do so entect!

OSa. 15 Molare

Dare can site twit

cried no to cured

110

... cine

z.

REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILI MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS

MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA

FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

I Need E enplouse dro. don don tert teitd 02010 10 transferrito to Die The

(3J +

SIGNATURE OF REOUESTING EMPLOVEE

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF. DIVISION

OR

oFFice HEAD

CONCUR:

DATE

SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL

FOR COMPIETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED)

FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

A/N (FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

---

## Page 6

916:

101.3

Bob Barteaux ti be

reade

If Rocery partie

imFR on Q Doe

Spoke up Tom Sherouse 305 350 5449

Tural 25 Get.

iked if Thorous stell is scheduled to

250c - but calendu call eith

20 Oct The Cal Call All Call It on 2100

I see where sland

10/25 Spohe W/ Sherme

_Demy

18n Then ala is

how on cault!

eached is Cats Next We a eached

Lemmy will be owed lawyer

11115 obe up Sherne

sch for l6 NN s read us

But cal Mater for reilled come that fin to a?

m let do chile

o why returned, who donny,

-arm/120

11/1T - Called M-fo am

---

## Page 7

С . об

-

03

9318

-TAR

Rockville Md 20850

08

gingel o coves

a Jan 69 - May 74

CA = Amy An Anne Army

bi, My 74 - 1 Jam 77 DEA

e8 Jan Jan17 - No amen, State Shen

2. only entrat of lenis -

23 May 15

Smen tell see

Tom -

4 Now So- tayet

resentent

Wit it 2 so K6M mot in too name

I cisco fo - respad - lan enficen

= no smiled, resint

31120

---

## Page 8

(Gerald P.Hemming)

US vs Hemming Cire No 16-11 - Cr- CA

P.Q. Bldy = Ct Home 300 NE. Fust Ave Mini Flonda

Mezzanine Floor 350 - 4136

Thomas M. Sherouse Ast US Atoney (30S)

See Mary Imes

300 Ainsley Bldg

5. D of fla.

Judge hoeveler

350 5449 o 447)

hm: 856 22PS

---

## Page 9

.18:19

Gay Maddox

CIA - 69- 73

Ở (Sgt)

- DA Aug,73 -

521 Florida Are ajd 104

Herndon. Va. 22080

4378958

-2'6fes 77 (comm mer)

2. Pro later the De 76 calad al Maldo

no cabed before

DEA

4 un - - бива qu -

---

## Page 10

"Ken Oct 25 chil

12 See be entered No paste a a les in tea..

2) Reads do it Not he ever explayed in any cool on

He as she than to flat chand esse

3. In Ot 60 3 amy i sing 1161, 1 Em 1967, 3-m 1978

A day aft 231718

Ungs →

3re the Doe

it be able til,

culd - ever o felly why not would emails

peple to.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

7=9.

Derry was fand guild

---

