# 104-10193-10016

## Page 1

104-10193-10016

TO

DISPATCH

Chich, Special Affairs Staff

CLANBIAICATU

" SECRET

asin

XXX

PRECESSINO

MARIO GO HEN

MO INCE DENG REND

LADQUARTER$, DESA

ARETRACT

+#CH

Chact of Station, JANAVS li

SANTO TYPIC/Opeiational

DeLicing Report - Santlago SANCHEZ de A TOrre

ACTION REGUBRUD ANTECENE

ACTION REQUIRED:

None

REFERENCES:

WAVE 2733,

dated 15 August 1963

(B) MEXI 5507, dated 26 July 1963

8.a7. 1U.1.n

Transmitted herewith, FYl,

is a debriefing roport.-

on Santiago SANCHEZ de la Torre.

Subiect arrived inche t

via Mexico in late August,

1963.

The dobrieflug contains

Information re tho MRR loll up in Miy, 1903.

Attachmont

"A" contains a list of subject's friends tint are currently

employed in power plants in Cuba.

Attachment "B" 13 a

debriefing report on Angel BENCONO who Sanchez belleves

was rasponsible for the HeR rold up.

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHNENTS:

Debriofing Reports, 1 cy ea. herewith

RECIAS:

•RI/AlI

RI/MIS

HIP/iS

INDEX-#X

Wistribution:

3-C/SAS, w/atts/h/™

?.....

Kalines

CLASSINICATION

SECRET

DAJE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHLD

4 Oct.

DESPATCH SYMBOL AND

53 0.1

1 1 1963

UFGA-11653

HEADQUART ORS FILE NUMBER

+819-132-5-96/3

---

## Page 2

... luld:

04

3 September 1963

51

DEBRIEFING REPORT : Sintlado [SANCHEZ do la Torre - aka "Jose Antondo"

DATE & PLACE

: Safchouse #182, 29-30 August (0900 - 1300 hi's)

CASE OFFICER

-: Claronce E. SNERYAGE

1.

Subjoct began to work against the CASTRO regimo with the MRP in

1960.

At that time he was employed in the Santa Clara power plant us a

technician.

His job was controlling the amount.of electric current that

was distributed. (Attachment "'A" contains a list of Subject's friends

currently employed in power plants in Cuba).

On 17 April 1961 Subject

ade contact with a_KWAR, infiltration team and began to assist the tenm

"onm consisted of

Jand. *AMARGO/1:

Case

Officer Comment:

ABIARGO/1 has confirmed the fact that Subjoct worked

with his team in Cuba.

Subject permitted the tcam to install their RS-l

Bet in his house locatod at #219 Carretera de Camajuant in the City of

Santa Clara..

No also safohoused the team on occasion and pormitted them

to hold metings at his house.

Aftor the failure of Playa Giron the

team reorganized the MRR in Las Villas Province, selecting Subject to

bo the Civil Coordinator of the movement in that province.

was selected as the Military Coordinator.

On 21 July 1961, while

Jind Subject yere in Havana for discussions with MRR leadera

(*AMIlOOK/1 and]

70 he KUBARK infiltration team and many other

members of the ARR in Las Villas, Including Subject's wife,

(Discussions were about actions to tako place 26 July 1961).

from Santa Clara, age 50/55 yrs, called

In Havana and told him'not to return to Santa Clara as many

people had been arrestod.0

late at night on

He went to his home and on 23 July proceeded

to work at the power plant.

Dintercepted him on

his way home for lunch and told him that the G-2 was at his home and that

they also were going to the power plant to arrest him.

Subject also

learned that there was surveillance

on his home on the night of 22 July

1961, but the person watching the house had gosten drunk and did not see

subject when he returned from lavana.

Fron

that sonent until entering

an Embassy on 6 September 1962, subject lived "black".

Efrain FAREN, resided.

Subject procceded to the outskirts of Santa Clara where a friond,

His friend told him to go to Havana.

While

driving to Havana Subject met another person who informed him that the

G-2 had a roadblock on the highway at Colon, Matanzas, and that all cars

were being searched.

On 24 July 1961, Subject went to a beach called

"GANUZA" located on the north coast of Las Villas near Corralillo.

Subject's sister has a home at "Ganuza" so he left his car there and

proceeded to Havana with some friends of his sister. Later the G-2

confiscated his auto.

(It is interesting to

note

that the G-2, after

confiscating subject's auto at the

beach, believed that Subject had

departed from Cuba.

Subject

thereafter communicated with his wife by

sending her lelters in jail via Miami where they were postmarked).

NO FIELD DISTRISUTION

CHO (FGA-11653

NO FIELD DISTRIP 1?1

CS COPY

10/BR

---

## Page 3

023

Page

When Subject approached

Whouse ho noticed. a

Dlind moro as if

someono was watching" so he did not go in. He walkod

two blocks to a bus

stop.

From the bus stop he could observe the house

and he noticed that a car departed fat

"high rate of speed". later that

Subiect made

fontanar, Havana ontac

Iat11l

Ives To no house told sange ol

Bald that the

the MR plans for

The rollowing day pinue though they were aware

3 "going ahond with their plans"

moyament was rost subject rested car approssane yes to we alete

lin Voradero.

continues to work for the

GOC at this time. He If the Deputy Chief of "ISphalt Consolidated for OS

tho entire country.

(outskirts of lavana).

"wifo and sons reside with him.

OX

Subject spent approximatoly one month in the above house (Aug.-Sopt.

5.

From October 1961 Subject resided with Ester

cer cruzia person ho

had known for 10 years.

Whilo living with [CRUZhe changed his appearance - 04

lost nuch woight, dyed and curled his hair,

obtained contact lenses.

(C/O Comment :DEster CRUZ was arrested approximately 9 May 1962 during

ho "roll up

1962, Subject mehe MRR

She 15_11 Jall a1 this time. In novembel

Prom Camaguey Oil

FUf MIllary coornator for the MIRR and used the name "Angelito".

was at thai

Subroto Subject

15_150= Isguajay, Las Villas.

Yaka "Anibel" whom he had known

encouraged Subject to begin working for the MRI again

He then obtained a briofcase and began selling medical supples.

owned the laborators HyROyBERG_LABORATORYWI.08

Tworked for ABRONC/5.

After AMBRONC73 was captured two actual

and requested that he continue to work.

04

i never not knor we mon anu donto that he porked for the movement.

6.

In late Novembor, 1961. Subject moved into a

"guest house"

several other bRR members resided.

House is called House

of Maria de 1a08

and is located on "J" Street_ between 2lst and _23rd Streets,j0

Subject net "Fernando", the Securits Chief of the MRR at the guest

He also met

house.

Fernando continues to work in, the underer also continues to worke

in the undergroundo. Me mot

Had gone to the hills of Las Villas but

Another MRR man residing there wash

During this period FNU

took asylum.

There was much conflict In the MER

during this period between ANHOOK/1 and AUBRONC/S..

(Subject has many

letters pertaining to this conflict but they were left in Mexico.

AABIDDY/1

is having someone pick up the letters.

Case Officer will attempt to

obtain these letters and review them.

Subject claims he did not hand

carry them to the U.S., as he thought our officials would seize them.

4218R

---

## Page 4

f0 o Dan

Pago 3 -

04

04

7..

In January 1962. Arturo SUGARRand

Twere preparing

to depart from Cuba..

When ANJAVA/A and AUBRONC/S arrived In Havana they

(C/O Comment:. A woman named

Twas 04

704

04

Ilkes money,

and subjoct

bEm)

8. [LUGARRA) informed AMBRONC/S that he had doubts about Juan *BUSTAMENTS,

"as he had asked too many questions re what AMBRONC/5 had

"false meeting" of the

chiefs of the movement to test BUSTAMENTE but "someone objected to thig".

In Fobruary 1962, a mcoting®of the leaders of the MRR took place and

MBRONC/5 reorganized the movement.@ySubjcct met ABRONC/5 only twice .

nce in february 1962 at the house

Tand another timo in

March, 1962 whon the assassination of JuanS MARINELLO failed.

The

Operation falled as the automobile to be used in the assassination attempt

was stolen on the day of tho proposed Operation.

The driver of the car

was to be Orlando [*CRUZ, brother of Ester CRUZ.

The URR suspected

Orlando CRUZ after this:

incident as he is a person who "likes money" and

the theft was"quite i coincidence". (Orlando CRUZ is presently in Miami.

He called Subject on 28 August and wants to see him). AMBRONC/5 informed

AMBRONC/5 placed

Tin charge of the fadio sets.

Celesto to be ties on parent east contact wita the Mado irpidoy

of Juan BUSTAMENTE, AKA

"Roly" OY BUCARRAlgave sublect two radio sets;

one

was placed in the apartment old

sister-in-law|of subject located 0f

at 23rd and I Sts., Vedado, Apt. #Iya-

08 Street between Urd and _5th_Sts., Vedaaoll the home of.

The tour bit was logated at ou

The only persons who knew the locations

of the sets were the Radop,|

14

#the MRR Chief andl

O During AMBRONC/5's trip to the

USA th April,

1962, Juan BUSTANENTE, Akal "Roly" discovered where the

radios were hidden.

Subject had contact wath

of during April.

and the group had departed from the area: Ou

Subject later discovered that the G-? had captured a "large radio"

the apartment of a radio technician namedf TROVADIUS.

TROVADIUS, when

captured,

fired at the G-2 and was himself wounded in the shoulder.

TROVADIUS reported that he had seen Juan FALCON in prison and that FALCON

had said "people in the G-2 had told me that no one would be wounded or

killed".

The Radop + (AMBUS/D informed subject on Wednesday (9 May 1962)

to take the do get mere captured.

Rumors were already circulating

Owners of the house where th

radio was cached had moved to Sanga Clara for Mothers' Day.

As Subject

was in contact withi

during this time he did not attempt to

pick-up the radio until Thursday (10 Slay) at 0700 his. Subject enteree

the apartment building (12 stories high) by the rear.

Upon arrival he

discovered that the glass doors on

the

terrace were opened (apartment

was located on the eleventh floor).. These windows are seldom opened.

51/BR

---

## Page 5

Page f

Subject entered the:

noticed tro men loiter.

ding with his briefcase, contalning a pistol.

9th: fl00rg

departed

and

the lobby

te took the clevator to the

walked to the cleventh, floor

SubJect?was

ing soft shoes

walked quietly

to the apartment;

don't

talk

loud as

and heard a voice

no one

come.s1n.

he

Subject then proceeded

next tapa

ment

occupied by

friend of the movement:

she had heard

noi

es since

the

* The

friend

b

took

the

preceding night in' thesapartment,

He

ect, then

Stairs

to- the

9th floor-and

off on

the

ground

entered the elevator

o0r

and

Tercero

Ave a whererthe

0t

po

n

arriva

at the house

• house

tal

ing

d

was outside

leparted"•

fron

oat:

a

friend

in strapse

"Subjects then

The friend Mas/arrested,

Twh

went

wheld a week and?

released.

Subject

to

the house

then

tried

pass this Information

neater discovereds that MUGARRA knew

To Are cha the tadorend discovered

discovered

subjectite

this peri

28th of May?

Jater

the G-2 had taken

blocks fron heret he

over achouse in. Guanabo;

Subject heard that the G-2

380

house

for four days.

13. Subject then departed from Guanabo for a few days.

When he returned

in June 1962 he met Sylvia LNU:, the person

who resided at

the house where"

the blond thin, mun

named "CARLOS!

was taken. Sylvia and&subject.met-in/the

waterin

Captain

nilo

atos their houses. Sylvia is the wife of a BATISTA Naval

Mies 1n Miami, She has two

"CARLOS" used to live at her housel and

"little girls"

Sylvia sard

there with? the G-2.

The, G-2 'was

after being captured he

that

was returned

envelopes" (pads, and crystals)

ching

sor

"plastic. case,

she

and-

Sylvia told subject that

envelope and that when Enrique, CEPERO

had

mily Informed her

seen the

she hid everything, in the house

that

COU.

her

was

sader the dos house Inthesback yard"

"Car los"""

been drussed chen he returned.

Alf he bad

to.

the entire house bringing Carlos

house

They

searched

days. Sjlvia was forcedpto open the door

aback and forth several times itor four

caller was arrested. Sylvia was Interrogated and the house"

anyone arrived and the

surveillance for approximately a month

was under?

A friend of Sylvia's from outside

Cuba visited her during this pertod and was arrested and held for a week:

Srlvia said the items she buried looked like "pads and maps wrapped in."

plastic

Although she claimed the material was turned over to

subject has doubts that this was done.

the URB

7. 2:

13158

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Page

5

During September 1962 Subject and his wife entered

Uruguayan

Embassy to remain

in asylum until 19 June

1963 when they arrived In

Mexico City via Safe Conduct.

Attachment "g" is a report on Angel BENCOMO who subject belleves

was responsible for the MRR "roll-up".

Irisise

Clarence E.

329

---

## Page 7

•ATTACHMENT "A"

*TALLAPIEDRA - (Power Plant)

Ing.

Manolito

#FERNANDEZ • Superintendente

Ing •

de (#*LEON

Superintendente Auxiliar

(Bomb Thrower)

3.

REGLA - (Power Plant)

DelEIn FRODRIGUEZ

Ing. F*ROSS

Operator Control Room

20 .

Superintendent

* * * #

DESPACHO NARANJITO - (Sub-Station)

1. Jalme#*GUIU

# Ж # #33

OFICINA PRINCIPAL DE DESPACHO

1. Carlos

#INUEL Pens - Auxiliar

of Superintendent

(May be throw a bomb) - He

can give good information.

DESPACHO SANTA CLARA (Santa Clara Dispatching Office)

1.

2.

Pedro *LUCAS Galvez. (Jefo Despacho) - Dispatch Chief

Agustin (GARCIA Cabalet - Despachador - (Dispatcher)

Vladimir S. *KLITTING.

$6

АН. "À # UFCA-1653

---

## Page 8

H1P

ATTACHIENT B

Debricrins of Santlaso SANCHEZ, de la Torre:

SUBJECT:

Angel

XLENCONO (DENCONO reporteaty rais

responsible

for the BRR roll-up per

SANCHEZ + SceNEXI- 5502)

19ayears old.

entered the MRR: via

employed by the Abras Publicas rn Ca

with his

Superior's

quit the mi

ALCO BERCOND OUSE NOMO

to Havana where BENCONO began

Jand-Santiago

SANC

MUGARRA in Havana) P SANCHEZ

tested

(BENCONO did nut meetlarturo Ou

DENCONO and leappearedito be

Ok scordisciplined quiet:

to-pick-upsradios. minox/came

aS,

setc.

Tuls activits. took place

between larch and Jay. 1962

2. CAT CUTO MUGARRA: VaS

Havana where he went to dispo

to D4

meet MUGARRA] at the cafeter

the

cafeterta, turned the car

cadillac over to the prospective buyer

and

sat down.

A mechamko dro

to tho car to testat and returned with

tHo

G-2 corsar Although

was present

and was quest loned he, was

nọt

arrested.

From May to Septenber

1962 g

SANChEZ SAw BENCONO often. "In

September SANCHEZ went into.

Embassy but

"heard that BENCONO waSS

arrested and held until Noven

from

BENCONO via SANchEZ"" slE

BENCOMO

ry 1963 SChEz heard

wrote.

apletter (which

SANCHEZ-s t11 has saving

tha

workings for the irR in the

streets:

BENCONO said he

did

corsidering going to the

& house

]in Orienter

formerly was operating linitho

went

to hide out inoan.feb: 1962

21903

HEZ recei

another letter from his siste

¡BENCONQ was

2G32.

o and no identitied n cooperat

man'

a December: 1962

Lo cooperate

th

TOld SANCHEZ FE

sister of BENCOlOs propositi

Since that time

PhaS disappeared.

AH. "B" lUFCA -1103

SEC 11.

13/38

---

