# 104-10310-10140

## Page 1

104-10310-10140

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, European Division

XX

Chief of Station,

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CÂN JUDGE INDEXING

: ROM

Chief of Base,

SUBJECU

MHORDER

Operational

Recent Newspaper Article Concerning Richard Case NAGELI

ACTION REQUIRED - SEFERENCES

Reference:

4071, 10 October. 1968

Action required: FYI.

Forwarded as an attachment hereto

is an article

which appeared in the "Overseas Family" on 20 June 1969,

written by Thomas C. "LUCEY about Richard Case NAGIll, Subject

August 1962 he was employed by the CIA.

According to the article NAGELL asserts that in

He further claims

that the U:S. Government is forcibly keeping him separated

from his family, a wife and two children.

The story makes

reference to his recent release from an East German prison,

as reported in Reference, and states that the following persons

were the cast of characters involved at the time of his release:

Andor KLAX, Chief of the Eastern Affairs Section of the U.S.

Mission/Berlin; Wolfgang VOGEl, well known East Berlin attorney;

che g the a ter lashington Public Sraely section;

attorney; Bruce hi. who,

FLATIN,

•NAGELL assertS,

is "a long-time CIA member and FLATIN is not

his real name:"

a doctor, Major George Raymond BABINEAU,

psychiatrist at the U.S. Arny Hospital in Berlin; and an

unidentified man.

(Continued)

APPROVED:

Heroenacte

Ferdinand S. Womack

JI. 101:50

Attachment:

•22

Newspaper article - a/s h/w

Distribution:

44 - Chief,

EUR w/att a/s b/w (1 copy)

2 - cos,

w/o/att

ES COPY.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

D 200-120-102

EGBA- 88312

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

decle ssilicallen

DATE

JUL - 3 1969

2 July 1969

MOS FILE NUMBER

2201-778898

:?

STGMISC-I-

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH •

CLASSiFICATION

SECRET.

DISPATCH SYMDOL AND NUMBER

EGBA- &0312

3.

The article does not make clear whether or not

NAGELL is back in Germany at the moment, nor do we have any

information regarding his present whereabouts, other than

the statement in the article that he is probably now in the

United States. 'The Public Safety Officer/USBER advises us,

however, that subsequent to his release from prison: in Fast

Germany in October 1968 he again visited West Berlin and con

tacted the Public Safety Office where he complained about

There are nol

Thomas C. LUCEY.

Base traces on the author of

Since the article appears to

any traces which Headquarters or the

may have.

WinfilLa. Calciu.

Winfield A. CALVIN

---

