# 104-10104-10038

## Page 1

104-10104-10038

ENEEASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Augustin D. ALLES Soberon

FROM:

• Glenn O. Brown '

Acting Chief, WH/COG

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

03

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1. Attn:

WH/CA

21 197

z.

3.

4.

OGC

Attn: Mr. John Greaney

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

TERNAL

SE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

COM DENTIAL

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

EXTENSION

NO.

WH/COG 70-274

4163

DATE 21 July 1970

SECRET

OFFICER':

NITIAL

COMMENTS IN a line och as column eth on trom men.)

to whom.

OGC Subject: ALPHA 66"

919/se

15.

FORM 610 USE PRENOUS

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.""

SECRET

0fc.70.1249

WH/COG 70-274

21 July 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Office of General Counsel

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Mr. John Greaney

: Augustin D. ALLES Soberon

: WH/COG Memo #70-244

dtd 1 July 1970

1. Augustin ALLES was employed under

the AMHIM project at a salary of $500/month, and

also worked part time at $200/month for Juana

Castro's radio programs, until the AMHIM project

was terminated on 30 May 1970. At that time, he

began working full time as editor of Juana Castro's

radio programs over WNYW at a salary of $300

per month. He continues to receive a pay check

from the Agency which is presently being funded

through a notional cover firm out of New Jersey.

Mr. Alles was witting of Agency sponsorship of

AMHIM and is witting of Juana Castro's involve-

ment with the Agency.

Please contact Vivian Barry, WH/COG/PP,

extension 1255 if any further information is required.

Sten o. Brown

Acting Chief, WH/COG

GROUP T

SECRET it is nee

doragrading and

destascification

---

