# 104-10121-10014

## Page 1

104-10121-10014

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

SECPET

CLASSIFICATION

M5=400/

DATE

S0 9-2634

21 March 1961

TO

THROUGH:

Chief

FILE °

Imployee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

The following contact is hereby

CIA EMPLOYEES

reported

requested to

be effective on a

one-time

continuing basis:

NON- CIA EMPLOYEE

NAME

EXT.

HOCSE

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

TSD/CDS

OFFICE

WATTECK, Dorother K.

RANK

іДМЕ

EXT.

OFFICE

VAME

EXT.

OFFICE

TITLE

Issistant Chieg of Staff, Intelligence

ORGANIZATION

Us kray, Fontagon

BUSINESS ADDRESS

Mien Affeirs Division, Collection Div.

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

Operations Branch

VAME

EXT.

OFFICE

PHONE

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON. COMMENTS.

AND

KNOWN BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

Renewal - SBORET - 3 March 1961

23 MAR 1961

_Subject's SO advised

that Subject was cleared for access to

oluding

LASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSI

TOP SECRET

Luce 478602)

T5D/183

OFFICE/DIVISION/STAFF

EXT.

James Po O'SOZNOE( AUTFORIZED SIGNATURE

SECURITY APPROVAL

Distribution:

1 - Iüdressee

1 - TSD/CDS

1 - TSD/ISS

115-4001

C-58.-

0R58: 123 -0SE PREYIOUS LARSIONS..

Authorizatic is granted for liaison contre! batunan the

individuals tard in

this request. CrA infor-alion may be

disclosed fincugh the classification stated. This is not author

Ity for cusserzacon di Drillia mou documents. The concur

rence of this tico for tis timon contact will empire one

year from dei. If ras-.

'te toninerence is Lcsired, a written

request should be david in i: Oice

23. MAR 1961

Date

Chief, Fersonnel Security Division

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFICATION

'Ідо

(111

---

