# 104-10171-10038

## Page 1

104-10171-10038

DISPATCH

Chicf, Task Force W

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce. La

2

QANSIICAIUN

S-E-C-R-E-T

PROCESSING. •

ACTION

MARANTINE DISA

A9110AC?

Chief of Station, JHAVE

Debriefing of DRE Chief of Action & Sabotage

ACTION HIQUIRIO REPERLACES

Action: FYI and files

!

Juir 15 1152

3. In 270 2'2 FARINAS RuIZ,

JAWAVE debriefed:

born 9_ October 1942 in Baez,

Las villas Province,- Cuba.

Subject resided at Calle 30 No. 214, Vedado, La Habana

prior to departure for the U.S.

currently residing at6521 Sw oth Streets Apt. No.1, Miami:

Although subject arrived. 21 Narch on a PiA flight

he passed through Miami and went on to New York, thus delaying WAVE

sebrieling.

FARINAS was National Chief of Action and Sabotage in the

_clandestine apparat of the DirectorIa Revolucionario

Estudlantil (DRE)

until carly March 1962 when he was replaced by Laurcano PEQUENO laka

•"Líno").

Subject had become exposed and sought asylum and departure

conduct to Mexico City.

3.

Subject described his tenure in general as having been fairly

active with good production considering the materiel and GOC repressive

measures.

He

traveled

quite freely; from lavana to Pinar del RiO,

back

to Camaguey on to Santiago in Oriente Province.

This was possible

mainly because of his gencral appearance since although he is 20 years

Distribution:

3 - C/TFW

HESPEEL

T7=759--8ch43

i.".

"OÃOSS RATTRENCE TO

CUASSIIICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

17-1:0-19

19-120-19-

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHEO

JUN

$ 1952

4 June 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL APLO NUMBLA

UFGA - 4253

PLADQUARTERS FILE PEUMBER

19-120-19/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

• S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA : 1253

of aro, he actually seems to be about 16 years old.

He is of slight

stature,

has cleancut features and frank grey eyes.

He could

with

any high school group and pass unnoticed in small or large citles.

1.

He organized Action Sabotare teans in the provinces with the

ald of Hans NEGLER,

National Military Coordinator,

who has since been

arrested and reportedly undergoing torture in the headguarters of G-2

in Miramar.

(Organization and Operations of

these teams are the sub-

ject of,a

following dispatch.

FARINAS described their supplies as

denoted and outdated.

He cited one example in which their

fragmenta"

lon grenades are dates 1952 and during the beach action in Pinar del

Rio when

"Juanin" (PEREIRA) was captured and shot, many of the grenades

did. not explode.

Subject laid the total failure of their defensive

operation to the grenade failures since they

were attacked by numbers

of militia who did not feel cover and precautions were necessary after

thoy observed the first grenade failure.

They were also having trouble with the last of their small

stock of "time pencils" (Firing Device, demolition,

M1).

using a lend pencil, demonstrated how they tested the safety device

before inserting

the pencil

the shape charge

In some pencils the firing pins were faulty and were discarded.

$.

Their most serlous shortages at present are time pencils,

blasting caps and small arms for personal defense.

He described some

teams as working in cities and having old Springfield rifles as their

only weapon.

This was pointed out as a double security hazard since it

could not be concealed by the carrier on an operation and it jeopardized

their safchouses by its difficult concealment.

FARINAS desciibed their stock of explosives upon his departure

as total of about 120 lbs throughout the Island,

and much of this was

the inferior C-3 type:

It is distributed roughly as 'follows:

in Havana, 25 lbs in Matanzas, 25 lbs in Camaguey,

10 Ibs in

in Pinar del Rio and Las Villas.

Subject emphasized the

importance of shipping only the C-d type which

is more powerful and

safer to handle because it is odorless and does not leave the yellow

stain that C-3 does.

When queried as to where subject received his training with

demolitions he replied that his predecessor had passed on the basic

precautions, but since then they trained the provincial teams by taking

the U.S. War Department Demolitions manual and with the aid of HENGLER'

language capabilities, translated sections and reproduced copie.

in Spanish for distribution to the outlying provincial teams.

9. Subject recalled the following operations during his period:

DRE teams destroyed the International Harvester Plant with

"White' Phosphorous" incendiary charges.

b. On 31 December 1961, they exploded a bomb in Santiago de

Cuba and during this action, the brother ('Pedro") of the

Provincial Chief of Action was captured.

•€.

In Havana Province, San Antionio de los Banos, during

April,

undetermined number of beef cattle were poisoned

by a DRE Action team:

d.

In Las Villas Province

Camajuani zone,

DRE teams are.

-burning sugar cane fields using short

candles as the time

delay device.

e.

In a

GOC parking area at Calle Zapata and Paseo in Vadado,

8. to 10 vehicles

were destroyed by fire - date not reported.

f. In the University of Havana campus zone, three bombs were

arninded. destroring

three whirles.

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

OSPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA -4253

• 10. Concerning PR activities, FARINAS explained that he seldom

had an opportunity to participate,

but that he was aware of the dis-

tribution of the DRE organ,

"Trinchern".

These issues

come out spora

dicalls, about 10 to 15,000 per issue for Harana and Havana Province.

Onlr a few copies are carried out to the provinces and they are tre-

quentli reproduced locally.

The two largest and most popular Issues

were

those known

"Alberto MULLER"

(DRE Secretary General currently

imprisoned at Boniato Prison in Oriente) and the

"Juanin" issue

(dedicated to Juanin PEREIRA; shot by firing squad).

11.

While subject cannot return for clandestine operations a

this time, his experience and capabilities are such that. should be

given further training and considered for future operations of guerrill

warfare or civic resistance nature.

Meanwhile, subject is preparing

detailed reports of provincial operations and he sill probably be

consulted on future clandestine operations planned by JaWAVE.

END OF DISPATCH

---

## Page 4

14-00000

DRE ORGANIZATION INSIDE, CUBA, AS OF 5 JUNE 1962

C101l

"41 guel

"Daraso

"Mar cos"

"Cuca".

"MarIO"

→ Civil cordinator and

Pinance Chief

--"'guel"'s deputy?

- Propaçan's

- Civil Resistance

-- Fre-university studenta

- 1121 tary

"Hang"

"Lino"

"Griego"

"Jesug"

"Carlos"

Irrasted

- Security action and sahotago

--Supply

-- Intelligence

-General cooralrator; arrested

Pro-incial chiefs

Havana -

Matanzas

06

las Villas.

Camaguey - (vacant)

Criento

arrasted

06

06

Pinar del Rio - (newly orranized by recent operations; "Pepo" (jus-la cartain)?,

"Patricio"?, "Gorio?)

:14/BR

---

