# 104-10308-10190

## Page 1

& II LA

104-10308-10190

DHYANS AMORAL Und States of America

OUTGOING

54584

- Charge:

SECRET

Classification

0u!1i

Control:

PRIORITY

Date:

28 MARCH 1963

= 300

•DIsts 1 - SIG

CHRON

01

INDEVOUT/ 3/ PRE

REPORTS CHRON

20-11

PRIDE DIR INFO

5006

CITE

Dissemid 29 Knaven 1463

TDCS D.3-3653939

INTEL PERIMEN INSOZ

5005

SUPDATA:

ZRWAHOO•

INDI VOIT 3} SEE (

FIIED: 2817157

REPORT CLASS& SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM. (DEFPR HOS RE DISSEM

ABROAD)

(HQS INSERT FIELD SYMBOL AND SFRIAL NUMBER)

FORM FS 41 3P

3-1-55

COUNTRI& CUBA, TISSR

STBJ. BACKGROUND TO OCTOBER 1962 CUBAN DESTRUCTION. OF A

U.5- 0-2.

DOI: OCTOBER 1962

PADA: MIXICO CITY, 25 MAPCH 1963

APPRS 2 (REPORTORIAL ACCURACY)

COTICE: CUBAN WITH EXCEILENT CONTACTS IN CUBAN GOVEREMENT

CIRCLES (B) FROM AN OFFICIAL OF THE C'BAN GOVERN

MENT (F).

I... (FIELD COMMENT: TIF. CUBAN GOVTFNMNT OFFICIAI, HAS

BEEN AN INTIMATE ACQUAINTANCE OF SOURCE, FOR MANY YEARS. FE

HAS EXCELLENT HIGH LEVEL CONTACTS THROUCHOUT THE CUBAN LEADER -

SHIP STRUCTIME AND IS INTRENTLY IN A POSITION TO TAVE ACONIRED

SECRET

"REPRODUCTION' FROM THIS COPY 15

Classification

•PROHIBITED UNLESS " UNCLASSIFIED".

Single-address mesages de lhe Department can be diverted lo pouch (appropriale lo the classification of the

retroing. Type.

after the address, omit the serial number, and pouch in enveloge

6-16:7/1

Castri

6/5R

---

## Page 2

13-00000

WaVL

Uni ad States of America

OUTGOING

Charge:

_SECRET

Classification

PAGE TWO

Control:

Date:

THF, INFORIVTION REPORTED BEIOW.)

2. FIDFI, CASTRO WAS PERSONALLY RESPONSIBIE FOR

THE SHOOTING DOWN OF AN A TRICAN U-2 PLANE AT THE HFIGHT

OF THE OCTOBFR 62 CIBAN CRISIS. CASTRO APPROACHED THE .

SOVIFT COMMANDER OF A CAM EMPINCENENT OR CAN DETACIMENT

AND PARANGUED HIM ABOUT THE "INTOSSIBITITY! OF PERMITTING

UaS• PLANES TO PHOTOGRAPH CUBA• THE SOVIET SUCCUMBED TO

CASTRO'S PFRSUASIVENESS AND TOOK ACTION WITICH RESULTED IN

THE SHOOTING DOWN OF A UJ-2 PLANE. WHY HIGRER SOVIET

COMMANDERS LEARNED OF THIS ACTION, THEY WERE FURIOS AND

THE SOVIET OFTICER WAS RETURNED TO THE ISSR TINDER ARREST.

3• FIELD DISSEM. NONE •

END OF MESSAGE

OR IG&

MIDDATIGI

SECRET

....Classification

ELMARD

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY

ROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED

FORM FS 413P

31-55

---

