# 104-10065-10047

## Page 1

104-10065-10047

• 13.01

'SECRET.

FRP:..

STAFF

CONF: C/LA»8

INFO: FILE, VR, DDO =4,

C/PCS, C/SIA, C/SIA/FL, DOO/DO, ODPD-DO OC. SO

C/EPS/EG=2, C/OG/DMS,

(27/P)

78 0779819

TOT:

PAGE 001

3123552 MA

78

DIRECTOR 231858

SECRET

STAFF 3M2355Z DIRECTOR 231858

TO: IMMEDIATE(

WNINTEL RYBAT

Tile 7115C15

REF:

336351 0771984

1 .

HOS RECORDS SHOW THAT A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE HOUSE SELECT

• COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) REVIEWED FILE ON WKSCARLET-3 ON

6 FEBRUARY 1978.

HSCA MEMBERS, ARRIVING IN

CARACAS ON 1 JUNE, WILL PROBABLY BE AWARE

r.

OF OUR FORMER RELATIONSHIP WITH W=3.

UNDER AGREEMENT WITH HSCA, THEY ARE NOT TO CONTACT OR

INTERVIEW AGENTS, PAST OR PRESENT®

TO DATE NO REQUEST HAS BEEN RECEIVED AT HOS,

IN EVENT THAT HSCA MEMBERS NOT AWARE OF OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH

(W-3, WE BELIEVE AMBASSADOR SHOULD TELL MSCA MEMBERS THAT W-3 WAS

FORMER RTACTION AGENT AND HELD SENSITIVE POSITION WITHIN GOV. HE

SHOULD URGE MEMBERS TO FOREGO INTERVIEW WITH W-3,

AND EXPLAIN, IF NECESSARY, THAT

UNINTENTIONAL LEAK (BUGGED ROOM, W3 INDISCRETION DURING INTERVIEW

AND IN EARSHOT OF GOV OFFICIALD OF WIZ'S PAST CLANDESTINE RELATIONSHIP

WITH RTACTION, WHILE HE HELD SENSITIVE GOV POSITION, COULD EMBARRASS

EMBASSY AND WOULD LIKELY RESULT IN FURTHER STRAIN IN RTACTION

RELATIONSHIP WITH

IN OPEN VENEZUELAN PRESS, THIS COULD

MAKE SENSATIONAL READING DURING ELECTION YEAR.

IF COMMITTEE PERSISTS ON INTERVIEW WITH W=3, NOTWITH

STANDING HSCA AGREEMENT WITH RTACTION, AMBASSADOR SHOULD STATE

THAT EXCEPTION BEING MADE IN THIS ONE CASE DUE TO 1965 ALLEGATION

RE W3 INVOLVEMENT IN ASSASSINATION PLOT AGAINST CASTRO AND

C IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.

AMBASSADOR SHOULD CAUTION THEM TO USE

DISCRETION IN TALKING WITH Wº3 AND TO REFRAIN FROM ANY DISCUSSION

• RELATING TO W-J'S PAST ASSOCIATION AND ACTIVITIES WITH RTACTION.

AMBASSADOR COULD ALSO COMMENT THAT DEPTS OF JUSTICE AND STATE ARE

FULLY AWARE OF WO3'S PAST CONTACT WITH RTACTION AND THAT SIMILAR

INFO COULD BE MADE AVAILABLE TO COMMITTEE BY MOS, ON REQUEST.

SECRET

# 05943

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78 0779819

PAGE 002

TOT: 312355Z MAY 78

DIRECTOR 231858

FILE 201-300985.

E2 IMPDET "»

C/LA/VCE/V

(x1969); COORD: C/LA/VCE (BEARDSLEY);

SA/DO/O (SHEPANEK); OLE (BRECKINRIDGE); C/LA/STB. (STURBITTS):

C/PCS (PAGE); AUTH:

C/LA (WARREN); REL: DDO (PAGE); CL BY 9499.

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

