# 104-10130-10312

## Page 1

104-10130-10312]

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

00C

(CATEGORY OF REPORT)

DISTRICT

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO.

104 887

TARASOFF, BOris D.

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

24 June 1963

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DISTRICT

REPORT MADE BY

DATE

24 June 1963

03

CHARACTER OF CASE

APPROVED:

sons, house nde

SPECTAN GENT IN CHARGE &

DISTRIBUTION:

HDOSY - ORIG®

HDQS.

1

DFO

-. 1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

F-EN 646 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

1843

---

## Page 2

14-00000

..??

104 887

2 July 1963

GENERAL.

At Washington, D.C.

06 On 24 June 1903, educational records in the name of

Berbara I. IARASOFT daughter of Boris D. TARASOFF, were

made available by Miss Virginia RONSAVILLE, Assistant Prin•6, 08

cipal of Woodrow Wilson High School, These records reflected

since September 1901

Kramer Junior High School. She has completed her tenth

and eleventh grades (at Woodrow Wilson High School. Jod

Scholastic reoords further disclose that her father, Boris

Dmetri TARASOFF is employed as an analyst, U.S. Government,

2430 E Street, N.W. Her mother's employment is reported as

Clerk, U.S. Government, 2430 E Street, N.W.

(MiSS RONSAVILIEstated that an unofficial transcript

was given to Barbara TARASOFF Jin June 1963, which reflects

her father's employment as analyst, U.S. Government (no address

given).

This transcript does not reflect her mother's employ-

ment.

06

Miss RONSAVILLE advised that to date, no official trans-

the same information

the employment of Boris D. TARASOFF, to wit., analyst, U.s.

Government.

DHW/mew

a/pS

---

