# 104-10128-10305

## Page 1

104-10128-10305]

ANDENTIAL

wisf, iruleal couts ibrision.

a lef, wursey iranci

jocurity Violation - iosed classified interial

Feralro, Javid d.

MAY 1960

ENG TEENT:

at 2200 hours on 22 Aura 1900,

cIsssifiod docuints in a setal correspandence dinidar on top of one

of the dents. The Night Lecurity Officer,

rinad that the documents were SEssI copiúa of of Meitl dispatches

vich he larounded al 22:5 hours.

2. F.133

custodien of the doermente, adviuod

that she nast nave naivertently overlooked ten then the secured

her olfice seide dojartin: &L abORt 1120 boUr on 20 Agr11 1960.

3• Pi6a

no wis nortin witi tise

secured her sorting eras in. ioc: 2015 at the sane tine

did ELes

inhen she departsd a few sinutes after &. sa

she did not notioc ti exposed docarems mici: had been left in

secired by kiss

p3 In tile instanse 1t 15 not deered 8,2

propriate to charge ljes

with & volation of security

anilations since carontially her departure was tired with that

of 11s1

ar ber bone dast to Leave the rods 13 con

sidered to be a techricality.

do MI. David Pr11l1ps, will Staff Duty Chocker en 22 AJ1l

1960, double checked Boon 2015 after 'I had been vacated for, the

day and prior to 1.00 hours ie also stated tnal he did not see

CONCLUSION:

» 5a As custodian of the exosed classified material, tiss

has responsible for 1te securi storage. As the Staff

Duty Shecker, Is. Fillips was rosponsible for detecting the fact

that classiled saterial hai not beer properly secured.

fallod to properly disccarje bis respective responsibilit; in

tils natico, eaci: will be charied viti: an Expored Classified

haterial security violation.

CONFIDENTIAL

RETURN SO GIA

Background dos Day

Do Nos Reproduce

11/00

---

## Page 2

GUNhOLMTiAL

"JETs LOCUTIE Viol-tion - imperd Clareifled Faterial

5:3170 NETO 7:

= 03

do 1:158

Jend tir, inuilino bare boen en lana by te

A renoy since Here: 1330.

I reviet of teir rocords reflect so

¡terior security piolatiois.

lotta lecurity isficer designate for kil, anc

5. Willar Biseram, Siles, 1M, lupport itaft, mino adrised that

they woul' establist

: #citioral ssorit coveraje in order to seprove

securit; e nir:1 in i: and pricine any possible recurrences of this

0s sulles incidenta.

CONFIDENTIAL

3/pl

---

