# 104-10186-10296

## Page 1

104-10186-10296

NÃO RI

INFORMAIS ONSRERORIA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

hla masatal contina intorands alecrina le Matamal Delosso ol lhe laltod Bialeo Milha the Densire el SDe Sigonge 20ss 1904

3. UBC. Jach. T93 and 911, tha Imasmimion of porache of maich la sny mannte to na unnulsonard pere to probiend er 1at

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Eulogio PONS.

REPORT NO. CS CI-316 00241-64

DATE DISTR

17 July 1964

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D.C.

• DATE ACQ. July 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTA

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer whö served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

1. The following report is one of a serles containing

provided by the source anc

includes supplemental information from the records

of this Agency.

2.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on

of the

individuals mentioned in the personalits

reports without first.checking with thie Agency.

RETURN TO CIA

padground lise Only.

:si Fleproduce

Direccion General.

Headquarters Comment

. 1.

The records of this Agency reveal no indentifiable

information on PONS.

19 co m

SECR

. E T

NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

onde

aparenting und

STATE

101A

ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nore, Fiold distribution indicarad by "#".)

T NAVY

CINCSO =

NIA

I &NS

IXAX

I oce

TFBI 2

INFORMALION REPORT

NORMATtONWREPORT

WII/SA/EOB|

WH/SA/MOB

HE/5/R

CI/LIA

WELMADR

2 CI/R&A

WW/SA/R.

11/12

3 TE

L/ HASH

H 1089

INO PROJECT

(AMYUG - 1)

WH/SA/CL

RUDLAN

CSC1-316.0021L-

WU/HAVE

TOTALS

LIAISON

WH/SA

7 (1): WE 1 (2), CI A, RID 1

CI. R

OBJOLATE PREVIOGS EDITIONS

201- None

JIBR

---

