# 104-10073-10274

## Page 1

104-10073-10274

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.G.

20505

1 0 JAN 1968

RETURN TO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

The Honorable Walt W. Rostow

Special Assistant to the President

Beheiren and the Four U.S. Navy Deserters

I. The following information on Beheiren was compiled

by a representative of this Agency

and comprises

his personal interpretation and knowleage pased On Diet

and covert information available to our Station

as of 20 December 1967. Copies of this memorandum are

being furnished to Directar, Naval

• Investigative Service;

Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the

Army; Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security, Department

oI state; Director, redera. Bureau of Investigation; Chiel,

Counterintelligence Division, Directorate of special

Investigations, The Inspector General, USAF; Commandant,

Headquarters United States Marine Corps; and Chief,

Counterintelligence & Security Office (DIACI), Defense

Intelligence Agency This report partially answers DIA

letter S-4845/CI-4 of 29 December 1967 and oral requests

of similar nature from the Department of the Navy.

Summary-

On 13 November 1967, when the leaders

of the Japan "Peace for Vietnam" Committee (Beheiren)

dramatically announced

had deserted their ship because of opposition of the Vietnam

war, the name Beheiren suddenly assumed a degree of prominence.

The four sailors? successful flight to Moscow, with Behelren

aid, where the soviet propaganda machinery proceeded to

make capital out of this windfall, has kept Beheiren in the

public spotlight in succeeding weeks.

09883

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

Condidat on 6-10-71

SECRET

G30W 1

Excindal from auladlic)

conagrating 211

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

0 10/8/07

CSC

3 16/00.22

-68

г/pv

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Itself has tried to keep the "desertion mood" alive by

organizing a new group to promote and aid the defection of

future U.S. military servicemen in Japan. End of Summary.

3. Following is information on Beheiren and its involve-

ment in the case of the four, U.S. Navy deserters.

Origin and Development of Beheiren

(1)

Founding:

Beheiren was organized in

April 1965, nominally as a politically inde

pendent group of intellectuals and cultured

persons whose purpose was "to help restore

peace in Vietnam."

Actually, it is a loosely

organized group of ex-Japan Communist Party .:

(JCP) members, progressive intellectuals,

leftist cultured persons, and leftwing students -

banded together in the namé of opposition to the

Vietnam War by two common denominators; dedicated

anti-Americanism and refusal to be

dominated or

controlled by the orthodox JCP.

(2) Hard-Core Secretariat:

The real force

behind the organization of Beheiren has been

a brillant Communist named YOSHIKAWA Yuichi,

whose conspiratorial organizational skills have

been perhaps the most indispensable ingredients

In Beheiren's development.

YOSHIKAWA was expelled

from Tokyo University for his role as an All

Japan Federation of Student Self-Government

Associations (Zengakuren) leader 'in the 1960

U.S. Japan Security Treaty riots. He then went

into full time JCP mass movement

professional

work, becoming the Secretariat official in

charge of international relations for the Japan

Peace Committee.

YOSHIKAWA broke with the JCP

in late 1964, following the rupture in relations

between the JCP and the Communist Party of the

Soviet Union (CPSU) in May that year.

The inspir

ation for Beheiren springs in large measure from

YOSHIKAWA's personal desire to use his organiza-

tional talents 'in countering the JCP and its

Japan Peace Committee.

YOSHIKAWA, in addition

to being a well qualified English

linguist him

self, years ago surrounded himself with a small

following of similarly qualified lieutenants,

whom he brought along into Beheiren to give him

the necessary depth and experience to run this

new organization. YOSHIKAWA

functions as

Beheiren's Secretary General.

2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

C=F=i

SECRET

(3)

Respectable Intellectual Front: Following

fundamental Communist principles for mass move-

ment work, the ex-JCP organizers of Beheiren: mr

kept themselves in the background and lined up

a number of prominent Japanese progressive

intellectuals and leftist cultured persons

front for Beheiren®

The choice of ODA Makoto,

ex-Fulbrighter and popular young novelist, to

be the Chairman was a fortunate move for

Beheiren..

ODA has taken to this front work

like a duck to water.

It has given him a

chance to give unbridled vent to his own latent

anti-American feelings, puffed him up to the

long last an ideological mission to pursue.

YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in feeding

ODA's ego needs and in infusing and indoctrina-

ting ODA so that his words and actions take on

sufficiently virulent anti-American overtones.

ODA has served another vital function for

Beheiren by recruiting a sizable number of

fellow intellectuals to join the ranks of

Beheiren activists.

(See paragraph 4 for a

listing of a number of those Japanese who have

been identified as active Beheiren supporters

or sympathizers.):

(4) : Organizational Development: In its two

and one half year history, Beheiren has not

changed appreciably its organizational formaty

although it has moved its office three times

and modified its name even oftener.

Beheiren

is not a "mass organization," because it has

had no sizable popular backing to the present

time.-

Its hard core, secretariat organization

is run by YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants.

'Its

public image, intellectual front is led by ODA,

and given body by a score of like-minded intel-

lectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKANA, who forn

che loose body of Beheiren's activist leadership.

Under this Beheiren leadership superstructure

Iles a base of only several hundred Beheiren

"rank-and-file" supporters, mostly young Japanese

students.

Organizationally, Beheiren has no

formal membership system, so its base of support

ers is

fluid and not precisely measurable.

However, the base support for Beheiren has

3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

definitely been on the upswing during 1967, and

made such notable strides during the past summer

that JCP Headquarters officials finally felt.

constrained to note with concern that Beheiren

was beginning to drain off a growing number of

progressive youth who otherwise would have been

absorbed into the JCP's own youth movement.

Beheiren leaders have tried to help this growth

along by setting

"Young Beheiren, „up a youth section, calling it.

Beheiren's imaginative actions

and publicity-conscious programs have been

responsible for its recent growth, and this

period of growth

seems to be now on the verge

of really gaining momentum. As a result of its

role in the case of the four deserting sailors,

Beheiren has reaped bountiful publicity, has

succeeded in touching a delicate Japanese public

nerve of sympathy and pacifism, opening a flood-

gate of support for Beheiren from all over Japan®

When this' case fades from the limelight, it is

still most likely that a fair percentage of the

current wave of popular support for Beheiren

will solidify into permanent mass backing,

giving Beheiren, for the first time, a meaning-

ful base to support its future activities.

(5) Activities and Accomplishments: Beheiren

has engaged in

a number of propaganda actions,

and participated

in international anti-Vietnam

War activities.

It has tried to cooperate with

certain front activities in Japan controlled by

the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to

Investigate War Crimes in Vietnam activities:

which culminated in the Tokyo Court of August

1967, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed

by the scr

In spite of this, Beheiren has

churned along at its own pace, with a continu-

ing series of anti-Vietnam War actions, most of

them related in some way to the American pacifist

movement. In this regard, Beheiren has succeeded

in cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese

contacts with U.S. pacifist movements and

effectually capitalized on this to promote its

own action program. The case of the four

deserting sailors, while an apparent lucky

windfall for Beheiren, only points up the fact

that Beheiren, through past organizational work

and promotional activities, was ready and capable

4

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

b.

SECRET

(unique in Japan in this regard) to take the

ball and run with it.

Beheiren ran all the way

and scored its most notable success since it was

organized. (Paragraph 5 contains a listing of

Beheiren's more notable activities since its

founding.

foreigners who have been in contact with or

cooperated with Beheiren.)

The Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and

Beheiren

(1). How It Started: The consensus of all

available press reports, with no recorded dissent,

indicates that the four sallors voluntarily left

their ship, went AWOL, and ended up wallowing

around Tokyo's hippie-land.

Precisely what

personal grievances prompted the four to embark

on this misadventure is not known.

But, up to

this point, the four could fairly be categorized

as misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign

land, and due to get slapped back in line with

traditional Navy justice. when they

decided to stop the tun and so back to the ship.

So far, this made their case far from unique.

(2)

How It Became an Incident:

Instead of

returning to their ship of their own volition

or being apprehended by the Shore Patrol, the

four made contact with Beheiren leaders.

Again,

press reports indicate that this was just a

coincidence, that there was no pre-planning by

the four to contact Beheiren.

There is no

available reporting that indicates otherwise.

But, once the Beheiren people made contact, they

recognized. the potential immediately and moved

fast for the kill.

Beheiren Takes Over:

When the four made

contact with Beheiren,

it suddenly became an

entirely different ball game.

Beheiren had

everything needed to capitalize on this:: veteran

activist leaders who are experienced enough to

recognize the windfall that had come their way;

an apparatus that could provide hiding places

for the four; long standing liaison contacts

with Soviet Embassy officials for use in plan-

ning exit from Japan; solid contacts with

5

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

reliable American pacifists with whom the bona

fides of the four sailors could be checked;

money and organization to capitalize on the

propaganda potential (such as preparing a

movie film for the initial Beheiren press con-

ference announcing the desertion, prepared more

likely: than not by Beheiren stalwart KUBO

Keinosuke, an independent film producer); and

English speaking activists capable of sympathiz-

ing, encouraging, soothing, or agitating the

four young sailors, so that there would be no

turning back.

The Beheiren Apparatus at Work: While

many of the small pieces of this puzzle, which

would put the whole case in proper detailed

chronological order and eliminate speculation

on minor points, are still missing, the follow

Ing elements, all part of the Beheiren apparatus,

make up the bulk of the picture:

•(a) Hide-out:

When Beheiren got hold of

the four on 26 Actober, they had to be

hidden out for the approximate two week

period until their exit from Japan could

be arranged.

This presented Beheiren no

great logistical problem.

A number of

the Beheiren activist leaders have homes

well suited to harboring fugitives.

For

example, Beheiren activist leader FUKASAKU

Mitsusada has a villa hidden away in

itsusada

Chigasaki, which was used on the night of

12 September for a meeting of about 20 top

Beheiren leaders, and which would be highly

suitable for hiding the four deserters.

Other private dwellings, belonging to

Beheiren leaders and loyal supporters, are

scattered throughout both the Kanto (Tokyo)

and Kansai (Osaka, Kobe, Kyoto) areas.

(b)

Beheiren-Soviet Liaison: Beheiren

Secretary General YOSHIKAVA has maintained

periodic contact with Soviet Embassy

officials for years.

Beheiren Chairman

ODA has met. Soviet Peace Committee officials

in Moscow.

In the case of the four sailors,

intormation provided by a reliable sensitive

source has clearly established that both

6

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

YOSHIKAWA and Beheiren American collaborator

Brian Victoria met with Soviet Embassy Chief

I. C

Press Attache Nikolay V. Vasilyevich and

First Secretary Sergey D. Anisimov on

30 October. This meeting was urgently

requested by the Beheiren side, to discuss

"an extremely important, extremely delicate

matter," without doubt the case of the four

sailors.

(c)

Beheiren-U.S. Pacifist Liaison: Beheiren

contacted Dartmouth University professor

ernest P. Young, who flew to Japan on

& November, apparently helped Beheiren

"leaders check out the bona fides of the

deserters; and

returned to the u.s. on

11 November.

:(5)

Escape to Moscow: - The four deserters turned

up. in Moscow on 20 November.

The press has

on the Soviet passenger ship BAIKAL

on 1l November. Again, there is no dissenting

opinion, overt or covert.

The only mystery

concerning this final phase of the Japanese

portion of this case concerns the mechanics

of

how the four boarded the BAIKAL and who assisted

in the maneuver. But with the sailing of the

BAIKAL from Yokohama,

Beheiren completed its

most highly successful and beautifully executed

activity in its two and one-half year history.

Noti: only did Beheiren smear the United States

Government's image in Japan, gain a vast amount

of priceless publicity that will swell the ranks

of its supporters and be invaluable in future

conations are still pouring into Beheiren head-

quarters from all over Japan to "help and protect

U.S. deserters."

(6) New Deserters: The successful flight to

Moscow,

through the good offices of Beheiren,

has already stimulated one new would-be defection

case in early December, involving two sailors

from Yokosuka U.S. Navy Base, and prospects are

that more will follow. Beheiren itself has tried

to keep the "desertion mood" alive by organizing

7

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

=:

future U.S.

a new youP cervicemen in Japan.

to promote and aid defection of

Beheiren

Chairman ODA is now preparing to depart for.

Europe in order to contact and study European

anti-Vietnan War and deserter organizations.

4.

Japanese who have been identified as active Beheiren

supporters or sympathizers:

YOSHIKAWA Yuichi (Beheiren Secretary General) - former

JCP member.

ODA Makoto (Beheiren Chairman) - popular novelist.

KAIKO Ken.- Akutagawa prize winning novelist.

KUBO Keinosuke - film producer and director.

TSURUMI Shunsuke - Doshisha University professor.

TSURUMI Kazuko - sister of Shunsuke (their father is the

late philosopher, Yusuke):

FURUYAMA Yozo_- high school teacher.

MUTO Ichiyo - ex-JCP (tried to travel to U.S. to represent

Beheiren at October 21 demonstrations this year, but

was denied a visa to enter the U.s.).

YAMADA Atsushi - ex- JCP.

FUKUDA Yoshiyuki - playwriter.

TOMINAGA Ichiro - cartoonist:

FUKASAKU Mitsusada - professor:

AWAZI Kiyoshi - graphic designer.

TAKADO Kaname - Christian leader®

JOSHIDA Kiju - film director.

UMIHARA Shün - writer.

HASHIMOTO Mineo - Buddhist priest.

HOTTA Yoshle - novelist.:

GOTO Hiroyuki - scientist.

KUWABARA Takeo - professor at Kyoto University.

SAKANOTO Yoshikazu - assistant professor at Tokyo University.

HIDAKA Rokuro - professor at Tokyo University.

IIDA Moma - writer.

TSURUMI Yoshiyuki - employed at International House in

Tokyo.

Others:

TERAI Minako,

ANAT Fumihiko,

NASU Masanao,

MATSUMOTO Ichiju,

FUKUTOMI Setsuo,

KURIHARA Yukio,

ANDO Jimber,

- KÓBAYASHI Tomi,

KUNO Osamu (Shu),

KURODA Hidetoshi,

MARUYAMA Masao,

MIDORIKAYA. Toru,

MIZUSANA, Yana,

MORITAKI Ichiro,

XAMANISHI Elichi,

YASUDA Takeshi,

YOSHINO Genzaburo,

YOSHIWARA Koichiro,

OKAMOTO Taro,

MATSUMOTO Seicho,

El Rokusuke,

8

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

CHIBA Hido,.

MUCHAKU Seikyo,

EGAWA Taku,

HURAMATSU Hiro,

FUJTI Nittatsu,

HARIYU Ichiro,

NISHTO Noboru,:

NOMURA Koicht,

HOSHINO Yasusaburo,

OGOSHI Teruo,

ICHIT Saburo;

OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko,

IKEYAMA Huro;

SERIZAWA Tae,

ISHIDA Takeshi,

SHIRAI Shimpei,

KANAI Yoshiko,

SHINMURA Takeshi,

KASAI Seiichi,

SHISHIDO Hiroshi,

KATAGIRI Yuzuru,

SUGIURA Mitsuo,

KATO Shuichi,

SUGIYAMA Tatsumaru,

KAZAMA Michitaro,

SUZUKI Masahira,

MATSUURA SOzO,

TAKEUCHI Yoshitomo,

KODOKORO Masao,

WADA Naganisa,

KITAKOJI Satoshi,

YAMADA Munemitsu,

KOBAYASHI ShOiChIrO, YAMAlA Toshio,

IZUMI Taku,

AMAYA Noriko,

KATO Yoshiro,

SHIROYAMA Saburo,

TAKAHASHI Taketono,

ODAGIRI Hideo,

• OKUMA Minoru,

SANO KenjI,

SUZUKI Michihiko,

KUBATA Hanya,

SHINOHARA Seiel,

MARUYAMA Kunio,

TSURUSHIMA Setsurel,

MURO Kenj1,

KONAKA Totaro,

SAKAMOTO Yoshikazu,

SAITO Masahiko•

KOMATSU Sakyo,

. YAMAGUCHI Kosaku,

5. Some Beheiren activities and accomplishments:

Regular once-per-month demonstrations at a public

park in Tokyo, consisting of anti-American speeches

and followed

by street marches.

b.

An all night TV "teach-in" with Beheiren activist

leaders,

along with special guest, U.S. pacifist

Carl Oglesby (Chairman of the Students for a

Democratic Society.)

C .

full page advertisement in the New York Times

(16 November 1965), followed by another full page

ad in the Washington Post (3 April 1967), appeal-

Ing to Americans to stop the war in Vietnam.

d.

A "Meet

in. Conference of Two Nations for Peace in

Vietnam," held in Tokyo in August 1966, and

attended by Beheiren activists and seven U.S.

pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger),

and observers Irom france, england, Canada,

the

Ussi, Pakistan,, and Mongolia.

e.

A mass meeting in Tokyo in October 1966, guest

speakers of which were French pacifists,

Jean-Paul

Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.

1

Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures and peace

rallies for such anti-Vietnam

war pacifists as

9

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-0000@

SECRET

h.

1.

Ko.

I..

Professor Howard Zinn and the late. A.. Muste

of the United States, Claude Bourdet of France,

and Thich Nhat Hanh of South Vietnam.

A mass meeting in Tokyo in January. 1967, sponsored

by Beheiren and featuring U.s. folk singer and

pacifist Joan Baez.

A continuing program of direct distribution of

pamphlets to U.S. troops stationed in Japan,

and those coming to Japan on warships, and for

rest or hospitalization from Vietnam.

Participation by two Beheiren activist leaders

(Kyoto University professor KUWABARA Takeo and

International House staffer TSURUMI Yoshikyukle

taking advantage of a trip to the U.S. to attend

a pon-political Japan-America Congress on

Cultural Problems) in anti-Vietnam War •Speech

rallies and demonstrations at Dartmouth University

in early May 1967, followed by an unsuccessful

attempt to invite Cassius Clay to visit Japan

on behalf of Beheiren,

Continuing efforts to bring to Japan for

nationwide speech tour on behalf of Beheiren,

Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, an effort that

has not yet reached fruition but is st1ll

pending.

Participation in the Stockholm July 1967 "World

Conference on Vietnam," by sending two Beheiren

activist leaders as delegates.

Cooperation with the U.S. Quakers, pacifists,

and barle Reynolds in sending the yacht "Phoenix"

with medical aid, first to Haiphong, then on a

second trip in the Fall of 1967, seeking but

tailing to find landfall to deliver medical aid

to either North or South Vietnam.

Attempted, but'failed due to inability to obtain

U.S. visa, to send a Beheiren activist leader

(MUTO Ichiyo) to the U.S. to participate in the

21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam

War demonstrations

10

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

Currently carrying out a fund raising campaign

to send an aid ship to North Vietnam.

In this,

and other activities, Beheiren leaders ale main-

taining ever closer liaison contact with their

counterparts abroad, such as the French "Comite"

Vietnam National."

In an effort to generate

public support for this aid ship fund raising

campaign, Beheiren succeeded in issuing a public

appeal under the endorsing signatures of Tokyo

Governor MINOBE Ryokichi and Yokohana, Mayor

ASUKATA Ichio, as well as the usuạl intellectuals

Supporting Beheiren®

0 .

In October 1967, Beheiren solicited approval to

hold anti-Vietnam War demonstrations in front

of the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, expecting to be

denied and then intending to make this denial a

court test case.

Instead, Beheiren was given

this permission, and conducted two orderly and

demonstrations in front of the

American Embassy, garnering a larger public turn

out of participants than in any previous Beheiren-

sponsored demonstration.

P.

Assisted and

abetted

the defection to the USSR

of four. American sailors from 'the U.S. Navy

carrier INTREPID.

Following this success,

Beheiren's most effective activity to date,

Beheiren leaders are organizing a permanent

"underground railway" of Japanese intellectuals

who will volunteer their homes as possible "way

stops" for hiding future U.S. military deserters

that Beheiren now hopes to induce.

6.

Partial listing of American and other foreign persons

known to have been in contact with or cooperated with Beheiren:

Americans

(1)

Staughton Lynd: (ex-Yale professor)

(2)

Norman Mailer (novelist)

(3) Dave Dellinger (Editor of Liberation)

(4) Howard Zinn (Boston U. professor)

(5)

Donald Keyes (National Committee for a

Sane Nuclear Policy)

11

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECRET

(6)

(7).

(8):

David McReynolds (Chairman, War Resisters'

League)

A, I. Muste (now decéased)

Karl Meyer

(9)

William Davidson

(10)

(11)

Bradford Lyttle

Charlotte Thurber

(12)

(Miss) Quentin Bassett (Students for a

Democratic Society)

(13) Murray Levin (Boston U. professor)

(14)

Robert Ockene (Veterans and Reservists to

End the War in Vietnam)

(15) Carl Oglesby (Chairman, Students for a

Democratic. Society) (until 1966)

(16)

Barbara Deming (Associate editor of

Liberation)

(17)

(18)

(19)

Joan Baez (folk singer)

Ira Morris (Paris expatriate)

Otto Naisan (phonetic, New York City peace

activist)

(20)

Barbara and Earle Reynolds (divorced but

separately active long-time residents in

Japan)

(21) William R. Christensen (an American pacifist

drifter, who gave Beheiren 1ts first

experience in the summer of 1966 in exploit-

ing for propaganda in Japan, and then in

arranging the onward journey of an American

who wanted to defect to the USSR)

(22)

Brian Victoria (head-shaven pacifist and

"converted" Buddhist priest, known to be in

regular contact with the Soviet Embassy in

Tokyo)

12

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

b.

SECRET

(23)

Mr. Willowby (fnu, phonetic, "chief of the

Quaker Peace Action movement in the U.S.")

(24) / An unidéntified American of Japanese descent,

from Hawali, who is currently a student at

Waseda University

(25)

Kosaku Yamaguchi (reportedly born in U.s.,

present citizenship status unclear-formerly

was a professor at Momoyama University in

Osaka g

but has been teaching at the University

of California in Berkeley for some time)

Other Foreigners

(1) Mikhäi] Kotov, USSR (Soviet Peace Committee)*

(2)

Claude, Bourdet, France (French Committee to

support the Vietnamese People).

(3)

Peggy Duff, Great Britain (Campaign for

Nuclear Disarmament)

(4)

James indicott, Canada (World Peace Council)

15)

Faiz Ahned Faiz, Pakistan

(6) Gabita Muslepov, USSR

(7)

Mrs. Exdenebat Ojon, Mongolia

(8)

Konstantin Shugnov, USSR

(9)

Francis Marcel Kahn, France (Comite' Vietnam

National)

(10)

Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir, France

(11) Thich Nhat Hanh, South Vietnam

"Tost taa

Thomas H.

Karamessines

Deputy Director for Plans

CSCI-316/00079-68

CC:

Naval Investigative Service

Department of the Army

Department of State

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Directorate of Special Investigations of the Air Force

Headquarters United States Marine Corps

Defense Intelligence SECKET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

CSCI-316/00079-68

DDP/FE/JKO/Dianne Schellin:pjm

Distribution:

1. - Each

C/FE

FE/ JKO

FE/JKO/ JO

- C/CI

CIOP/FE

- CI/LSN

1 - CI/R&A

I - # DCI

DD/ I

Addressee

• (* January 1968)

SLURI

14

---

