# 104-10100-10034

## Page 1

104-10100-10034

1or.

4.3g. :

Maste. a.

*D. Doma

018S

38 101. €

I CBST

S10 m

B: CARLE dEB BELON

HAOH: DIRICTOR

27 to 8 28

оне Сві

MULTI-ADDRESSES CABLE

PERUMEN (ERPRIMA

15-21 crie and

00

85387

CIBLE SEC: IPIS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (URINCH POUCHO 09

SEXI

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

BIC 888

REPRODUGTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO ORCE 4

:8/R

09/0

---

## Page 2

ORGs: Do KONIS:Jd:

S9/502

C INSEX:

Ex?:

6453

C, NO INDEN

21 30V.

€9

'FILE IN ES FILE NO.

TO : CErTIIN STATIONS AND BAJES

FROM: DiRECTOR

CONF

SOCIET

200-180-49

22Nov63 417 032

ROUTINE

•70

"ULTI-DIESSEE CABLE INFO

CITE DIR

0z

5087

DERULEN (ERPRILA

FET: DIR 22218*

1, RECENTLY CONCLUDED EQS REVIEW OF

ZEPRINA PROGRAM SHOWS

THAT SUITE PFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGHIPICAXT RaSULTS AND

CONTINCATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON

•• FOR LISARK FAILURE IS THAT CLEAN TICINICIAN RECEUITING PROGRAM

FIDIL'S

LAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE SHEY SKASURED AGAI. ORIGINAL

OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FOOH WESTERN SUBOPE ALONE. TEDUCE OUR

FIGURES NOT COMPLITE, WI ESTINATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY

CANDIDITES HAVE RICHIVED CONTRiCT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIR

ADOLE TEN VID DAVE ACTUALLE MADE IT TO THE ISLAND, SUBARE

SUCCIND IN INSERTING SOUT THIETY RICHUITE TECHS INTO TEE

VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO PAR ONUT ITO SAVI RECEIVED CONTRACT

APPROVAL FROM HAVA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECHUIT IN SIGHIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS

DUE LANCELY TO RELUCIANCE FOREIGN MINISTLY AND FOREIGN SERVICE

OFFICERS PURSUE TICH NECHUITING MISSION AGGASSSIVELY, EUREAUCHATIC

IFCONPETENCE IN HAVANA, PRAR OP. INPILTRATION OF BOSTILE AGENTS

OFFICER

BICBET

REPRODUCTION BY DIMER THAT THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

Cary the

---

## Page 3

C NO INDER

FRANCH AI NO

PROMA DIRECTOR

Pr632:

13491

3074.80

-#NO &

POUTIN

PAGE

T" 0

CIT A 8 5 387

AND PBORANS LOSS 07 FITS IT I NE PRODRAM ON PART OF CANTRO

ASSLE, TREES FACTORS MITCH DEBOR TRON OUR STUDY ON TEE CORAL

PRIFORIANCE ACCOUNT FOR LICT OF RESPONSE MOM MASSIES TO

APPLICATIONS, LOBU DEZAY LA DETAIN IED BACE PROM RAVARI AND

SUSALL SUZUBKE ON TACHO ULATMATELN ELDED. MORO TREE LAG BETWEEN

DITTIAL, APPLICATION AND ULTRATE APPROVAL MOM LAVA, MRICA MAS

INITIALLY LAGER BUT SUB!

BUENTLY LOST LITEREST OR TOOK OTER

JOBS.

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING IS DO NOT RELIEVE IT HORTAURILE

TO CONTINUS INTENSIVE SRARCE TOR ZAPRIMA CUNDIDATES POR INSETION

INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. STATIONS FITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY

WITE TIEN IN THE HOPE THRY MAY STILL, BE HIRED, BUT CHASE EFFORTS

TO GENERATE LRADS FROM SCRATCH. OF OTHER HAND, THERE ARE PAIR

MOUSER NON BLOC TECHS IN CURA AT IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE

TO BIVE NESS ICE ON LTNITED SILECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR

"GAPiINA MOGIAM. STATIONS THEREURS AND ERAND DU WILIN

RUTST FOR SUCH OFPORITNITIES ARD TO SYPLOIT THIS IN SANG HARNER

3 ATTi OTHER OPPORTUMITIES TO PL-CE RESURNT AGENTS IN CURA.

COONDINST 06 OFFICE#S

• COUT

DELTABIME.

I TALI

MARGDUCION ET OMiT

SUING OFACEETATISTEN

331X

---

## Page 4

1+4280-010

Ciste

PAGE

10

MiLO

CITE DIA

85387

LE TIS COINICTION TE SOTE THAT LOST PERUE OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE

FOR, LICTUITING TECES TEND TO RELY EXAVILT ON LOCAI, CP STAMP OF

APPROVAL OL OTZER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY

ACCEPTALLS, LACKING THIS THEY ZAY LITICR IGNORE TES APPLICATION

OÃ LEJECT IT.

022

4. RESPONSI OF SOST STATIONS IN IIPLELENTINO DUPRILA EAS

BEEN LOST GRATIFYING. WE EROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGELY

QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS FEICE THEY FOR RSASONS CITED

= 2

UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBALK HAS MADE A RESPECTABIE

EFFORT TO EXFLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT #Z EAVE NOT

ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS BARALE FAFTECTION CUDIN CONIUSION

ANTO INEPTITUDE FITS RESULTANT, FAILUSE ACTISTS TIRIE OUS COULS.

3. DISCONFIAUS USE (ZEP TA SEE ATTA FINE 200-220-67.

END OF MESSAGE

dares csijlee, Copy may be seen ta ClA

reference file.

COORDIBATIO

BECRET

Mada

BEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PROMIDITED:

---

## Page 5

• DIRECTOR

A

• 0

INFO

SAB/TOB_

SAS/NOB_

1 flama

Best

Em Ciliague

CITE

85387

12 102

163/8

---

