# 104-10437-10059

## Page 1

104-10437-10059

SECRET

18. Cctober 1967

M. D. Stevens

PEREZ, Ralph

7:41 261

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

343-1055

MAR 1977

With reference to Ralph PEREZ, who is rentioned in

paragraph? of the attached memorandum on Richird S. CAIN

dated 9. October 1967, he would appear in all prob bility to be

Subject who in the spring of 1963 become of intorest to ICS (CO/C)

for routine exploitation ay

a source of forcign positive intelligence.

2. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-

substantiated report that Subject subscribed to the Communist

publication 'VOZ do MIXICO" and was a Communist leador in

1911: He icportedly was & leader of the Communist nucicus i

the Chicago Mexican colony.

#=cording to a notation dated 6/26/63,

this information was' considered resolved in Subject's favor through

1959 B.I, conductod on Subjact's sister. DOS was also informed

that Subject's sister (Maria Guadaluge GALLARDO, with various

akas) was reported by reliable informants to have been a member

of the Mexican Commission of the Communist Party in 1946 and a

card carrying Commanist Party member in 1951. During an inter.

Now in 1954, she admitted attending rieetings of the Communist

Parly and a Communist Puriy school Juring the mid-1930'a in Chicago

but denied having ittended Communist Party affairs subseguent to 1915,

or ts ever having been a member of the Communist Party.

"'ith reference to Guillermo ESCOBAR,

whom Subject

(PEREZ) is said to hay. given

#199 199, an d

lead, he may or may not bn Gulllermo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:

Guillermo (MARTINE?) ESCOBAR, l144260, a Musican citizen whe

in October 19561

was cancelled by ? 1/Il in & memorandum dated & November

There is no derogatory information in ESCOBAR's file and no

information on him since 1957.

SECRET

Excluded iron miteralis

dews rading air,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

The only other Guillerino ESCOBAR on whom there is

information in Security Indices is an Individual by that narae listed

in a 5 Decomber 1942 report on The Iourth (TROTSKYITE) Intcr-

national. This Guillermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the

Fedaracion de Obreras de Imprente d: Chilo, war listed as

tan personalities in the Partião Cbreto Revolucienarla, an one red'

Chilcan organiention.

M. D. Stevens

Attachment: memo did 9 Ost 67

MDS/cer

SECRET

---

