# 104-10194-10015

## Page 1

104-10194-10015

HOUSE GICT COMMITH: ON ASSASCIMAMIOYS STOP 100:95

FILI: TTTLE:/NUMIM:P./YOLIMD::

TARASCEE ANNA

EFFICIAL DISTENEZ FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIA, UNIT/LOCATION:

ROON:

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

DATI:

WATE

RECEIVED

RETURNED

KENNED IY

(PRINT NAID

DAN

MARDWAY

- 110 MINUS

REVINING OFFICIAL

in Hairdway

NO MUCUMENTS MAY HE COPIED OR REMOVED FROG THIS MILI:.

---

## Page 2

SEGNET

26 March 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR : Office of Financo/C&ID

SUBJECT

Verticasion of Contract Sorvics for

(P), Terminated Contract Employee'

1. During poriod 8 April 1957 through 8 Soptembor 1953, subject sorved

so an Agency Stalf Employee, During this perlod, eubject was a participating

member of tho Clvil Sorvico Rotirement System.

2. During poriod 1S July 1964 through 19 October 1970, subject served as

a part-time contract employed on a prearrangod regular scheduled tour o!

duty. With rempact to this perlod of service:

(a) Perdod 15 July 196÷ through 7 September 1967 la creditablo

for purposes of CIvil Service Retirement.

Since subject wag

covered by Social Security during this period, Clvil Sorvice Ratirement

doductione were not withheld.

(B) During poriod 8 Soptember 1967 through 19 October 1970, subjact

was a participating membor of the Civil Service Rotiremen: System.

3. Action Required:

(a) Offico of Finance: Pleaso post tho above information to sub

joct'o retirement records.

(b) DDP/VIl/Contracta: For your information.

/c! T."

Chiof

Coutract Personnel Division

Distribution:

Orig. - 0/F/C&:TD

1 • WH/Contracts

1 - CPD aubject file

1 - CPD chronio

MOLT

---

## Page 3

14-00000

11 Man 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECE

: Civil Service Retirement Credit

1, It is requested that information be provided as to the

meditable service for the Civil Servioe Retirerent progran for

the following individuals.

2. Although the named individuals are no longer employed

by the Organization, the creditable service can be of particular

significanoe to each.

3. Your early attention to the request will be appreciated.

liz William V! Bro

Chief

SEGRET.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

23 March 1971

Percud

FRob

15 JU? 64

JAU 65

Jan 67

• Ja.. t?

3570

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Persomel Division

SUBJECT

Following are the total number of hours for each year

under contract. The informa-

worked by

ton was provided this office by Payroll

Dx..

1964

551 hours

"Dows

. DCC .

1965

789

one included a leave verofit.

Ted call data contact to fe

" anded and was imediated replaced by a

Pic66 1966

Der 1.7 1967

Dis

1968

1091

2nd K, Khich included Civil Servico Retiro-

ment.

From the nuber. of hours worked I feel

1092

ve can make a deterination that che during

the full poriod ste voried akas in a

1486

nart-time boais on a prearranged rene ach.

tois of suty.

If you concur, I will rive

• pes

1969

1414

a stdo tipe nemo to o/finance.

Subject is now terninaied, but in I:H

field with her inuband.

Bill enchan has a

14 oil

1970

1217

disiatch in askin; that laurs, verify her

total i service.

Paul.

23 Mar 71

ok-DK

SECRET

---

## Page 5

Date

8 Anr 57

Coitract Snuice

Actions

CIA Staff Imployce service

8 Sep

• 63/

15 Jul. 64

Contract. Emy. loyne with social security.

No LPAs or PSIB.

1 Aug

Pay Increase

10 Oct 65 Pav Increase

• Authorized futuro LPAB.

3 Jul 66

LPI

7 Sep

• 67

Contract terminated

8

Sep

67

Contract Inployoo with Abotal Civil Service Retirenonty and

L'AS. No P318.

8 Oct 67

LPI

Ils Jul

68

LPI

13 Jul 69 LPI

28 Dec 69 LPI

19 Oct 70 Contract terminitod

(P)

Companda Sikail

5.59 pohemi

2.72

SEN

2182

2,96

2.40

2.46°

363

301?

3.37

3,57

GS-05/5

GS-05/5

65-05/5

3.57

NOIE:

n 24 .37 1111

subject's official Staff Inployee file was mviewed.

it me Arcide (ay staff employee service fron 8 Ani 57 to 8 Sep 63:

(b) durin' entire period was a prticipating momber of the civil service

• Retiremmü system; (c) sie vas on lhOP during priod 12 Jund Sop 63;

and her 3F lll rated 8 Aor 57 reflect no prior Federnl Scivice.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

T. LAST NAME

• TARASOFE

* DATE AND MATURE OF SEPARATION

APPOINTMENT DATA

J. TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE

1 as of dare of seputimes

Years

Atarita

Days

Contract tenninated 10/19/70

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

ANNUAL

s Bole to per too yes ended.

T71O

• Co do one pose arol mrogoa...

10/17

8. Parol

8. Posturton no credita, el any (curront year!

Sick

Crosed to be cut, ors to Sex 2011d1

479u0l Inore Bal

SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE

(DAYS)

I sean than 18 years

275

89

364

256

1a. Dote amoral obedad for Mi purposes

19 Current boionis on of ..

56

312

12.m0n8 arenal rate.

17

Dares love used pros 26 montre...

KOTE

0

stantrip decrast dope

19. Balanco

Calendar doro crete foe no il octrol dato.

364

18. Total toura pard as 1

312/20 Dote bure minso pread compisiad..

no dura

12. Sakery rossi

$3.57

360hrs 2 holidays

MILITARY LEAVE

13 kump runn

p/h

21. Dares dueway curene colendar yo

US00. 10/17

22 Durre during preceding colandol ye.

- 8_1700 12/22/70 0

ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

(Mours)

(Poorurs)

Samar

Auch fert. of feer

¡trio:"

Standard For a 140

Moremier 1008

1180-610

(Dote)

(Pelophone]

During leave your un valush seperoted

24 During step-increase maling 8/14/64

perrad whuch begun on -

29 During 12 montA ME, Occudi period (dares).

.0

REMARAS

SCD

7/15/64

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED

US: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

FPA SUPPLEMENTS 296-31 AND D90-3

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

(When Fulled le) .

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I SERIAL NUMBiA

013175:

I NATURE OF AFTERREL ACTION

CONTRACT TEFMINATIUN

(Вінція

v tO y

FUNDS

CB 10 Y

WESTERN HEMISPHERE SIV

TA IFFICUIVE DATE.

0.:013:D:0ia1l

3 CATEGORY OF EMPLOTMENT

GUATRACI-TYP: A

$51

y 10 0

CA TO 18

1165-09:0

12 POSSTION RUMBER

TTS CARTER SERVICE DESIGNATION

11. POSITION TIRE

TRANSLATOR

TH. CLASSIFCATION SCHEDULE (GS, 19, e%6.)

1S OXCUPATIONAL SERIS

T6 SPAUS AND STEP

(PART TIME)

GS

-

STATUS INEGONATICA

DED. NOCTS:

BIRMIS CATE:

2s

CITIZENSHIP USTBIRTR LONGEVITY CEMP: 07155"

StAVICE COMp:

TYPE RETIREMENT: COL

• HOSPITILIZATIEN:

FEGLI: YES

PAY BASIS:H

PREY. GOVT SERV:

AAL INC: 3

CONTRACT INFORMATICN

EFF CATE: 0÷0367

EXPIRATION CATE: 04079- DATE ORIG CONTRACT:

REFERRING

UFFICER: WA NOMIN

-

- • ENTITLE I SPELIGIBILITIE SPALLAWANCES -

TAX STAFF: Y

FLU EXMF:

STATE ¿XI.P:

STATE:

TRAVEL: NNN

OPS EXPASE: N

HOUSING: A

PISTPERUAL: A

HCME LEAVE: 0

DIFFEKENTIAL: N

OFFSET CLAUSE: C

STU GOVT: N

LEGISL PAY: Y • PILMIUM PAY

ALLOWANCE CONN: N

STEP INCRS: N

OTH TAX ENTL: N

CHER ALICHAS : A

SEPARATION: A

NOTE:ITENS PRECEDEO BY AN ASTERIOR E DEFLEUT CHANCEED.

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

(8-51)

11503

ROSS MES. 1168

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

*studed tram sulem

cagation

---

## Page 8

SECRET

DELICAT

DATE

CLEARANCE SHEEl PUI TERMINATION UE CUNIRARI FLASCANEL

THIS FUNN HST RE SIGIED AND SUBMITTED IN DUPLICATE

25 Vanuary 1971

PERSONAL DATA.

MAWE (1.088

true or perudonya):

OFFICE ATO BRANEN OF ASSIGANENT

(P)

DUP CALLI

LOCAL' ADDRESS

Maxico Gity, Mexico

PERMANENT STATION SE BASE

Mexico City, Mexico

PERMANENT ADDRESS

Cleveland, Obia

POSITION OR FUNCTIONAL TITLE

Contract. implayee, Type B

CONTRACT DATA

DATE CONTRACT REFECTIVE

DATE CONTRACT LAST REMEMED

DATE CONTRACT ERPIRES

DATE OF CONTRACT TEAMINATION

15 July 1964

& September 1970

7 Septenber 1921

19 October 1970

REASOA FOR CUSTRALT TERMIGATION

Retirenent of husbando

INTERNAL STAFF OR DIVISION CLEARANCES (Add or

CLEARED BY

*a applicable)

REMARKS

COMPOSENT

FINANCE

LOGISPIES

Security

CONTRACT APPROVING OFFICER

CLEARED BY (Signatues)

HaS, Benehan: CAll/Contoscts

SCHEDULE OF INTERVIEWING OFFICES

(OFFICES NOT REQUIRING INTERVIER DILL SO INDICATE)

DATE

INTERVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICE

DATE

TIME

CLEARLO DY (SIgnaturo)

CENTRAL

COVER

STAFF

DATE

CLEARED aY (Signature)

OFFICE

OF SECURITY

PSD

OS #131 751

13 July 64

DATE

CLEARED BY (SiGnATUrO)

CFFICE

OF FERSCANEL

CPD

DATE

REVIEWED:

RIMARAS (PlESIO iRItiNi)

Duplicate - advance copy to OF/CSD/CEAS 30 Octater 1970.

c... 18%.

Special Contr it Oilicer

STAGE OR DIVISICO ANT BRASCE 25 ASSIGNVENT

C/H/1

108 1689

Biayons

SIGNATURE OF STAFF OR DIVISION RESPONSIBLE OFFICER

DATE

SECRET

101

---

## Page 9

14-00000

4i6.3

isncci did ris

o :. 61-108657

JAN, - IC 68

JhNI - DEC 49

JAN -OCT 10

KNO 1S Ckrlict

Heriios

$547. 544

41935.06

4335.46

# 4428.83 ÷5=74904.65

HIENT 5 SFISTEE

13%X

4803, 65 x5 = $560.20

4807.6-315=

420.9'9

3% + 483965 125=

212.48.

#1 052.03 miltirgy

plANj& BREI

éaddAti

Tlk' 6aö-JuNü3

-JUNG/-JUNGS

JäNGl.-JiNial

SHEE

ANNHITY

JUN'ÉO - DECÍO

3 yencie': 55 5-758

#5545

5160

65 6/4

4/3

2487

4/2

3055

5/2

#15457÷3=55152.33

+570+55152-53+

T#%: +451521331

5

+45155.33+2:53

$ 39:45

45055

05%43

10 9493

tidei:iT

---

## Page 10

(P) TOTRASCHE

1. le io

ah milaneet

act disl.

5Mpy 1985.

8 FEB

STAFF (CSR)

CONTRACT (SS)

kits !a7

(csR) dept 67 - Oct 30

57.63

17:70

fex*/ 2902

Cisigration effectic

I Sest 46'3

331.03

C5 Deductiono intele a Seffr

TOTAL

$1781.93

961.24

$2743.07

Port

14 fie

$3.03

3. 12.

Ferive

Cags 52,

13/23LOH:A9H5

715:2,33

3/158157.00

(-5'

at t0

$ 4549.34

4935.06

4335.417

---

## Page 11

1910.

160м

SUENCH

DISPATCH

Chris, WH P16102

Chief or station, lexico Cly dia

11451:/169110n

SECRET

Trades:

MACHIN THE TENGU

ONLY OURIN.10 GiS*

CAR JUDGE IPAINE

contract was terminnted effective

19 october 1980. Since her husband is retiring, the will no

Lonzer be avatlable for cuployment.

2. Subnitted herewith 1e & signed contract termination

'and

tersination secrecy oath.

Attachinents:

Contract ternination - - - 0rig

Teraination

secrecy oath

- Oris

Distribution:

Or1g & 2 - Chief, WH Divicion w/att.

2. b/w

Cic: 130 007 i370

CROSS RUSSENCE 1O

" DISPATCH SYMCOL AND NUMBIR

HANT 10,578

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

22 October 1970

NOS FILE NUNGER

---

## Page 12

14-00000

with the Cronia tich,

TAte tea one an electe to de ence oce

which concerns the present am Mure security de Cur couty.

I am arare that

the muchorary discloaure of such inferration to prontoles by the espicrage

Jars of ou soverren much specifieally regaires the preloculon of iniclligence

sources ard recrods are. materentics disclosur

WITHOUT PENTAL REGBRYAGIOH OR FERROSE CO EVASICH, AD IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESE,

AS FOLLOIS:

1o I Mill never divulge, cubltah, or revol by uritino, vord, conclcu,

or otherls:

ory Interration rolatina to tro rational dofcare and sacurloy ard particuleri;

Information of this nature relating io Intelligence sources, rethcds, persoiral,

fiscal cara, or security measures to arvoss, Ircluding, but rot linited so, any

rutus sorommental on private orployer, prius citizen, or goverment

emploree or official tithout the eurons imitten coasont of the Chief of the

Oraniration co his authorited represontative.

2.

* have been Invited to subrit in titing any ronetery clairs I rey tave

against the Organization or ou governent trich mey in ary lay necessitate

the disclosure or Infornation described herein. I have been advisor that

any such claims 4:111 recoive full legal consicoratior.

In the event, lio ever,

thet I am not satisfied with the docisions of the Cronization concernirg any

present on future cleirs I ray subrit, I will rot take any cohem action to

obtain satisfaction lithout prio: iriuten notice to too Organization, and

then only in accordence ith such legal and security advico as the Cranization

will prorpely furnish re

3. I do not have any dcouments o: raterials in my possescion, classified

or unclessired, mieh are the propert of,

or in custodial

of the crazation, having coma into ru póssessica as a result of ry ducles

with tre cranization or cterise.

4. During my exit processing and during ry perioi of emlorent with the

organtzation I have been given an cocortunity do recor all information scout

the Organiantion, Its gersornel, ani

Its opertions vilen I cordider stauld

recoite cisteial comicance.

Kence,

I am not care of any informatic: drich

1t 1s my dusy,. In the rationai Interest,

to disclose to tre Cragnization, ros

an I aiare cô any viciacions or brasshes of security itich I tave not ordictail?

reported,

except as set forth en the reverse side of this sheet or on other

attachrents.

SECRET

ring: 0s/ID

---

## Page 13

14-00000

For 2

5. I hare Ruen elvised that, in me cront la: called won by the properld

constituted autorities

boredy 10s to cisclose,

1 ball mith to the Cecroiention Jeolately; Eril? also

advine sold authoritles

comitraits do ou goverarent cal isli

request that no right or nooi to testico bo estatliaica bofore i ei roguing to

do 5o.

6. I aur auro of the provisions and peanules of the conidiage laus of cur

coverineni an ex dully aire that ary violation on ny port of certain ratters

soon to by no lie: this osth rag sulject me to

prosecution under tre tens

of these Jais,

ari tint violation co otiar ortions of this oath are surcet

to appropriate setton,

friclucing such disperination of the violation as tie

circle stances sarrant.

I have rozd end understard the continos of this cach and voluntarily attic ou

signatum horato with the full Ispilnige tiat this opta das executed 20r

the mutual benerat of musele and our gurnment, ent that l9 1011 be maictre

In tho files of dia Organization for lus Mitua use on for reference by mo

at any tire in the future that I tay lo sequester on ordered to testir 0r

disclose en oê the matters Ircluded winnin the scope of this oath.

IN VINESS MENOr, I have set li hari and seal tils -

_ October

19.70

• 16

day of

Witnesseù by ne tints

at Mexico C383.

Nexico

16 :

day of October 19_70

frilent

SECRES

---

## Page 14

M1 1N5

Dear wisH

You are hereby notified that your servlean under a

with the United States

Government, offective

8 Septembar 1967

of the insted States' rovernment pursuant to paragraph.

terminated at the conventonce

of said contract, and

days' nolico

You are reminded of the contents of parngraph

of sald contract which read as follows:

_ Secrecy. You will be reguired to koep forover

secret this

contract and all information which you may

obtaln ly renson hercof (unless rolcased in wilting by

the United States Government from such obligation), with

full knowledge that violation of such sectrey uny subject

you to criminal prosecution under applicablo laws

regulations."

signature in

ment of the contents heret space provided bolow is acknowledge

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Acknowledged:

Witness:

i Fair 1 Permilanit

Reviewed:

Contract Approving Officer

SECR

E T

tee it die ANNE 11578

30 Re70

I routed with

* so ahead (187)

---

## Page 15

SECTET

HOW-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

22.0c: 70

8.

SUSHIT FOR:

CONTRACE CUPLONTES ETITE A. $ A1O

CONTRACIORS UNDER GARITUS CONTRACE OR NUE CU'S CATIORES CE

2.

RESIDENT ALIENS PILLS

THIS PORS IS NGE AFPLICARLE TOR GRENATICAL ON PIELD AGENTS

9.

FORM WILL DE RETAINCE BY THE ORIGINATING CONCOVENT GNOMESH

OF COPIES AT HIS DISCRETION) DAD AN CSPSPAGENT BRINCH (8 COPY ASLES

NAME (LAST. FISSE, MIDOLE)

ATTAL STATUS

(P)

DEBEADINIS

YEAHTST OF FIRTN

Married

DATE OF LATEST SECURITY OPER

ATBONAL APPROVAI

- 1915, 49

SOB TITLE

ONTRACT AIRION

CAFECTIVE DATE

CAPIRATION DATE

Transcriber

SALARY

туро В

15 July 64

2 Sep. 7h

$3.67

GENETS:

BNE

DESADILATY

SICK LEAVE

CIVIL

SLAVICE RETIREMENT

CIA PLIIPENINE OR CONMERCIAL CIA ANMUITY

FEDERAL

EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE AND MEALTH INSURANCE

CONTRACT LIFE

AND HEALTH INSURANCE

MISSING

(FRI'LAIN)

NON. CIA

EDICATION

High School Graduate

CATS Cr BIRTH

Female

NATAONALITY

5. M'sy 23

LAST

_U.S.A

CONSENT

GRADE EOUITALENT

DD?/13/1

PROJECT CE FAN D

GS-5/6

NES

•8

SUPPORT

X:

DATES

FROM •

To

191p8pm145

1955-56

EMPLOYER

Cléveland Trust Conpany

American Trust Corpany

NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT,

LOCATION

Cleveland, Ohip

San Leandio,

California

FUNCTION

Bookkeeper

Cornicial

Bookkeeper

SALARY

CIA

TRAINING

FROM .

or 57-Jun 63

Jul S4-present

FUNCTION

Clerk-Typist

Transcriber

CIA EMPLOTMENT

MISTORY (SEURANING RITIS EOD»

CONTR.

CAr.

LOCATION

Staff

B

Has

taxico City

PROJECT

SALARY

ECD as

Resign, as

•SUPPORT

$3.67

GRa:t

EQUIT.

0-4

165-6

105-5/6

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECKET.

241:

Sui? True Marr

198166151%E8.

O SECURITY

SIEVICIS.

COVER

FRESENT COVER ISI

D

o'pertormed her Sectarial/transcribing duties outside the Static!

OIVSSION EVALLATION OF COVER SECURITY,

6

"..:..

• EVALUATION

OF PEAFORMANCES

Satisfactory

ADAPTADILITY (SUBJECT AND FAMILY) TOMAIOS DUAL LIFE

1..

No problem.

D. PREVIOUS COVER NASI

O NON-OFFICIAL

(GIVE BRIEF. DESCPIPTION IF NOC)

MOBILITY

INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS: DOIN PERSONAL AND OPERATSONAL

-o;

:=:

FUTURE UTILIZATION

INDICATE PLANS OR RECONVENDATIONS FOR USE AFTER CURREE ASSICSIENT

None

---

## Page 17

1./

CCS/CTS

6697

*%:.

12.

October 1970

ILE SECACPARINS DISSCIRMATION

PER

TOIAL COPIES:

SECRET

LO NO INCEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO -

I RETURN TO .

10002,013. 0P3

Testo and emo tileds

stori at i7:

_ URANCH

I TILE MO

665.-

(alito)

(reterance number)

(cLassification)

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

NEXICO CITY

077157

JBCENT/ADMIN

1, PLEASE ADVISE DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS AND

THE FLAT RITE TAX IS INCREASED TO 18.4 PER CENT EFFECTIVE WITH PAY

PERIOD ENGING 20 SEPTILIBER 1970.

2. STATION SHOULD START WITHIOLDING TAX AT HIGHER RATE INNE-

DINTELY. DISPAICH FOLLOWS.

END OF NESSAGE

_(pics)

TINT

COORD:

f.

C/WH/SS

live bege

RELEASINO, CFFICR

COORCINATRE EFFICERS

SECRET

180ur 1

facture a tie or audamalle

REPPRNCTION RY OTHER THAN BE ISCUING OFFICE IS PiOMBITED.

in Slues

c/CCS/CTS

11001....

AUMUIENTICATINO

OFFICEN

COPY NO.

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Miss

Dear Miss

Reference is made to your contract with the United States

Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective

8 Sept. 2907

_, as amended, which expires 8 Cast. 1970

Effectivo _ 8 Sapt. 1970

_, said contract, as amended,

1s extended for -

one (1) year

All other terns and conditions of said cortract, as amended,

romaln in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Fy contracting hintêr

Accepted:

Concur:

Date

Witness:

" Leache

In Cardine

Approved•

Spacia! Contracring. Officer

SECR

E T

---

## Page 19

115962

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty

SECRET

Chief, WUl Division

A DYIN/ CONTRACTS

Contract Provisions

. Roference: HMMT-9892

1.

Reference indicated|

Iig a Contract

Inployee who is required to perform her duties during various

hours of the day as voll as a varying number of hours in order

to meet operational deadlines.

Roference asked that the contract for

to provide reimbursement of six hours

per day

when in a 10aaa

bo amonded

status and for paid holidays retroactively to 8 September 1967.

2. The request is answered by the Station's explanation--

and until there has been established in advance a regular

tour of duty, 0-1 and FR 20-13).

an individual is not eligible for leave or holiday

pay (8eo FIB

In the event the basic criteria is not (FUB 40-1), the

effectivo date could not be retroactive.

Hugh S. WESTBY

Diatribution:

2-COS, Mexico City

SADIE MEDI AND NONSTA

HMMS - 6559

A2G:E 186

HOS IRONi

1-WH/1

I-#H/Contracts

I-WH/Registry

SECRET

WH/Contracts _=

CATICE ST.1501

C/WH/1

Shenehan.

nd (17 Sept 69) _ 1460

fire, State:

C//WH/SS.

GATt

-this tinerapon

George R. Thompson

---

## Page 20

ta-notes

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optionall

FROM:

•**TERNAL

E: ONLY

ROUTING AND RECURD SHEET

Anna A. Tarasoff

RID/DEP/INCOMING

GB-12

TO: Ofter dougnation, room numbos, und

barkling)

• Chief/Wh/Reg•

DATE

ERTENSION

x7737

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

CONF ""NTIAL

SECRET

NO

DATE

Amit

11192

1 0 SEP 1969

COMMENTS (Number onch tommons lo show brom utor

is mirom. Dram a line etross column attee pact comment.

FORWARDIO

11958

7

Lust contrat

C/WHl/1

7.

8.

WH/Contracts

10.

Your comments please.

Subject's contract already

provides for sick and annual

leave

effective 15 July 64,

and she is considered a

part-time contract employee

on a regularly scheduled

tour of duty.

Subject's

contract does not provide

for overtime and holiday

Her contract would

have to be amended to

Include this prOdFs109.

$ 2.

15.

FORMA

I-a2

60 USE ATONIO

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

fun contras

carted afpine Pace

3 repos

cany

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 21

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, Wil Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

BUS PILO FOR MAXING

NO STOLZIAG RIQUARED

ORE Y QUALIFID DESE

CAM JUDGE MDEKINO

HE ECHELA

Chiefer Station,

Mexico City

ADMIN/ CONTRACTS

(C/E) (132830) - Contraut. Eutltlements

ACTION KUVITO KATEREROE

References:

A.

B.

Book Dispatch - 6496

Book Dispatch - 6144

Subject is a contract employce who is required lo perfor

her dutles during various hours of the day (including a varyine racer

ot hours in order to meet operational deadlines.

Even though

contract allows her anual and tier.

leave benerits, she has not been reimbursed for any leave durin: re

period & Septenver 1967 to the present.

In addition, the Station nas

not reimbursed her for any holidays, WOLADY or local, while other

contract emplojees whose contracts call for a regularly scheduled tour

of duty, have received compensation.

3.

Sirce subject has worked an average of 30 hours por west, with

Headquarters concurrence,

it is reconnended that slie le reimoneres six

Hours per day when in a leave

status and for paid holidays retroactively

to & September 1007, tie effective date of her present contrect.

diggersee

tor/coln A. INNERT

• Distribution:

45= C/WID

CROSS REFRENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL NAC NUMBER

1ABT - 3892

CIASSISKATION

SECRET

DATE

3 Septencer 1909

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRET

MEMORANOUM FOR : Office of Finarcé:

FROM

SUBJECT

: Contract Persohhel Division

Contract Fistenaton for.

1. Elleciie85030456921968

for tha

auljac Individual. effectis: -850-6957608 1867-

the contrart ne amended

?. All other ser no and conditione of tie comract iad amendedy

remain in full force and effect.

VITED STATES GOVERNMENI

BY

Contracing Orcer

mural Excluded lenn automate dosneradng and declassifica:

5 sept. 69

---

## Page 23

14-00000

sister,

c-0.27

N'EMORANDUN FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

Contract Extension

It Is requested that the contract for the following

named individual(s) be amended to extend the term as

indicated.

Through 7 September 1970

Willian V. Broe

Chief

western Hemisphere Division

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

DATE:

CIC NO.

• MEMORANDUM FOR: Director di Finasce

ATTENTION:

inter, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA:

Chief, Contrac: Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

Tax. Assessment for

1. A flat rate covert tax assesstent of this individual's gross,

taxable Agency entitlements has been

approved as indicated beloi.

acinowledged Letter of Tai Instruction has been M will C will not

a be forwarded.

The Station/Base will be C has heen C sarised

no this assessment.

Tax Assesstent Rate

Effestive Date

2. This is a new

assessment

a revised assessent

3. Other rayroll factors percinent

to this tax assessient action

are as follows:

CONTACT ADPROVST

181.1

Chief, c.?.D.

APFROYED:

Bresutive Secretary, Corert far Suari

DISTRIBUTION: OriO & 1 = Addressee: 1 Copy CPD: 1 Copy Area Division; 2 Copies OCS

1089 2643 P1091085 8012466

SECRET

18.4.818

3 - CPO

---

## Page 25

SICHET

Chlot of Station, lexico City

Chief, HOGME

ADM/ JECENT

IP) - Reviaton of Tax Absosenent Rate l

REYERENCE: Lotter of Tux Instruction, IlHS-5711, 14 Dee 1968

1.

Pleaso adviso

that his flat rato parcentago

tax assessnont has heon rovised by the Tax Staff Iron thirteen

and

nine-tenths (13.9) per cont, establiched hy reforence, to

twenty and eight-tenths (20.8) por cont, effective 29 June

1969, T/Y 1959.

This rovision is necessary so his incone and

ten position have changed to such a degroe as to make the

provlous tas asiossment rate unrealistic. A computation of the

revised tax rate la attached.

as an anendent to l

From the information subaltted to the Tas Stall, 1t

appears that

daughtor quallties as a dependent.

The new tas cosputations are hased on five exaptious.

should llat five exemptions on his 1069 tax

return.

VICTOR D. UNITSKY

Attachront:

As Hoted

Distribution:

= COs (w/att)

1 - C/CFD (wo/att)

- OP/C&TD/CPB (vo/att)

1• - C/WH/1 (no/att)

1 - WH/Contracts

H:015-6521

SECBET

-Ph August 1969

289N:e:9º 8:1

---

## Page 26

NOTE FOR FILE:

husband's

date extended to Nov. 70.

• retirement

25135

---

## Page 27

SECHIN/ EXTEE

000.

Chef, Wll Division

Chief, SB Division

Chief of Station, Mexico Clly Car:

SUBICH

Annual Fitness Report

ACHION REQUIKED - RECENCES

XX

87.0615%'

is d

w.2:0.105.17

BO PUTTING LIEUNIO

GRIN GUANILO C:SA

6051 JUDGE AND/URE

1. Attached aio copies of an Annual Fitness Report on

2.

and hey husband make a good and efficient

team on the duties assigned to them.

Attachnent: herewith

Distribution:

(2'- C/WIl Division watt.

1 - C/SU Division w/o att.

CURTIS

12eg-2aul6d to:

little, likests

c: 1!11

williantinets

C NO 19F65

1876469

CROSS RULELACE 10

DESPATCH SYMBOL ASO NUMEIR

FAINT- 9523

DAlE

29 Janunig 1959

MIS FILE KUNGER

SECRET/

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL • FITNESS KEPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The following irma of ihe Fimasa Roport will NOT be complored by lield personnel preparing the repore for transmined to Hood

SECTION A, Irome 1, 6, and 7

SECTION D. lemo 1, 2, and J

(Ouly ln respect to "Freed

Maso and Signature")

I CERTIF

THAT

IMPED UR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

& NESS REPORT HAVE

DATA

28 January 1969

DATE

38 January 1969

DATE

28

January 1989

COMPLEME O UNDER MASARANG ON CUR

CURRENT INSTIQUETIONS GENROGENTING ON THE ATTACHED FIT

TYPED OR PRINTED HAVE AND JIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR (AS POOI

Francis J. COIGNE I.

1631612.2

TYPED OR PRINTED LAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Willard C. CURTIS

SPECIAL NOTE

cose of odministrative and support

shoe a complete and realistic atrement of specific dares may be reported in Section B..

Howevar, the natura,

sirion of information or aperations will not be includere

On the

cortain other employees

pardiate try te stone behe ve are position pilas

pillos ond description of apacific duties

of

In those coses, general sportinents o

FORN

8-0.2

450

OBSOLETE PREVIOUSEDITIONS.

SECRET

18>

---

## Page 29

14-00000

SECRET

(Shen Filled In)

EMPLOTEE BERIAL NUMBEN

FITNESS REPORT

(Firal)

SECTION A

1. PODID

GENERAL

Z. DATE OF BIRTH

19. 384

A. GRADE

8. 80.

(Leot)

3 May 1923

8. OFF/DIVIAR OF ASHIONHENT

B. CURRENT STATION

8. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE-

Mexico CIty

contract Em cree

DIP /HELE

10. CHECK (KI TYPE OF REPORT

D. CHECE IN) PURE ON APPOINTMENT

CAMEER

PERHAPERM

TRADONARY

REASSIONMENTBUDERUISON

CARKÉN-PROVISIONAL (S00 Inalructiono - Section C)

XX AMALAL

RE ASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

ADECiAL (Spachly)!

Contract employee

SPECIAL (Spacils):

I2. REPORTING PERIOD (FROn- 6o)

"T. TO TH

REPORT DUE IN O.P.

1 January 1969 thru 31 December 1968

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W. Meds

Performance ranges from molly Inadequate to slighly leas than sotisfoctoey. A roviny In thila category roguires

positive comedial action.

The nature of the action could range from counseling, go further training, to placing on

probarion, to raassignment or to seporation.

Describo action taken de proposed in Section C.

Performance meots all requiromonia. It lo entirely satisfactory and lo cherocierized nelther by defielancy nos

encollenco.

p - Proficiont

Porformonce is more than satiafactory. Dosirad results are being produced in a proliciens mannor.

§ - Strang

Performonce is choracterlied by excoptional proficiency.

O - lyrstandica

Porformance is

exceptional in palation to requirements of the woik and in comparison to tho porformance of

Perdre doing similar cork de to worrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Liss up so six of tha moms Imporians spocifie duples performed during the raring perlod. Insert roling lefter which bose describas pha

manner in mhich employee performs EACH spoellie duty.

Consider ONLY eflectivorosa in performanco of that duty.

All employees

with suporvisory rosponsibilitios MUST bo rated on chair obility lo supervise, (indiento number of employoes suparviaor).

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. I.

and processing transcripta in Spanish and English Into

vorkable format for Station analysis and 11110g.

TITE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Handling adninistratire mattors for her husband.

8

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

CATING

A TIN

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 9

FETTER

CATINA

SPECIFIC CUTY NO. B

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke into account everything about the empleyes which influences hls ellectiveress in his cuerent position such as popo

¡ormance of spacilia dutios, produetivity, conduce on job, cooporativeness,

pertinent personal prairs on habits, and

particular limitations or rolents.

Based on

your knowledge of employee's ovorali performanco during the roting pariod

ploce the letter in the rating box corresponding to the metamone which most occurately rollecto his leval ol performance.

SECRET

RATING

LETTER

*M 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

A-BB

---

## Page 30

14-00000

SECRET

In)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Iridicure signifleons strengthe or neoknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective

orprall.perfopmmcn.

their colorlon ship to

Carment

on foreign longuago comperonce, ll required lor current position

basis for determining futuro personnel action.

Amplily or explain rarings divon in Section B to provido boil

Monner of performance of

othe use oL prisonneli space, sauiement ond funds, must he commented on.

Section C, alloch o soparate sheet of paper.

This employee continues to saalet and compliment her husband,

• Staff Agent,

in an unusually efficient team.

She pro-edita

transcribed materials and puts usable material into a for roady

for filing, thus saving analytical and clerical tino in the Station.

lar knowledge of Russian and Spanish, analytical ability,

overall

efficiency and interest in her work

all contaibute so & fine

performauce.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS PEPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

28 January 1969

MODER MY SOLEVI

UNDER

ISHAS BEEN

(Bigned 1u pseudo on Field Tranamittal)

BY SUPERVISOR

TiF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

OATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

(signed in pseudo on Field

28 Jamary 1969

Paul lee Dillon

-Trannittal)

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The revieuing officer concurs with this report.

Subject

and her huaband continue

to fora an efficient and valuable lean.

DATE

28 January 1969

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

Chief of Station

SECRET

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Sanesh if. Beed on Pield

Transmittall

---

## Page 31

14-00000

DISrATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECEBT

PROCESSING ACTION

10

Ch1a8, HOMOLD

INO.

Chiefe VH D1v1810n

FROM

Chief of Station,

ADHINISTRATIVE/TRAINING

Hexico City

Language training

ACTIOM RIQUIRED GUIRINILS

ACTION REQUIRED: Inforation Only

xx

Concent.

MARIED FOR ENDERING

NO MADIXIRE RIQUIRLD

ONIY QUAIDIO DESE

CAN JUDGE INDiNING

As of 1 March 1968 the bolow liated personnel wore receiving

voluntary Spanish language training paid for by the orgonization

OF LNGOLD:

Prancis J. COIGNE

Humphrey K. HEADSHIP

Douglas J. FEINGLASS

Henry N. LANGDON

KeIth &. LEVENDERIS

Wanda G. PANSPINTO

ClarIce F. PARDECK

Cora B. BAUSKIND

joseph Y. TRECANTI

and the wives of Walter W. CORNBURY and Gerald D. FAlANGER.

1or/W1llard C. CURTIS

CROSS RIFERINCE TO

DISTRIBUTION:

2

- Chief,

HOMOLD

3 - Chief, VH D1Y18108

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO NUMBER

IN T-8919

CLASSFICATION

SECRET

T DATE

9 April 1968

HOS THE NUMBER

---

## Page 32

2

ELECTION, DECLINATION, OR WAIVER

OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE

FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM

•TO COMPLETE THIS FORM

FOLLOW THESE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:

• Read the back of the "Duplicate" carefully before you fill in the form.

• Fill in BOTH COPIES of the form. Type.or use ink.

• Do not detach any part.

FILL IN THE IDENTIFYING INFORMATION BELOW (please print or type):

MAME (last)

(first)

(middle)

DATE OF BIRTH (month, day, year)

14÷3

EMPLOYING DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY

LOCATION (City, State, ZIP Code)

IMPORTANT

AGENCY INSTRUCTIONS

ON BACK OF ORIGINAL

I SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER

3

MARK AN "X"' IN ONE OF THE BOXES BELOW (do NOT mark more than one):

Mark here

if you

WANT BOTH

optional and

regular

insurance

Mark here

if you

DO NOT WANT

OPTIONAL but

do want

regular

insurance

Mark here

if you

WANT NEITHER

regular nor

optional

insurance

(A)

(B)

(C)

ELECTION OF OPTIONAL (IN ADDITION TO REGULAR) INSURANCE

I elect the $10.000 additional optional insurance and suthorize the roquired deductions

from my salary, compensation, or anuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance.

This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

DECLINATION OF OPTIONAL (BUT NOT REGULAR) INSURANCE

I decilne the $10,000 additional optional insurance. I understand that I cannot elect ap

tional insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this declination and unless

at the time l apply for it l am under age 50 and present satisfactory medienl evidence

of insurability. I understand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declina.

gion of additional optional insurance.

WAIVER OF. LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE

desire not to ba insured and l walve coverage under the Federal Employees Group Lif

nsurance Program. I understand that I cannot cancel this waiver and obtain rogular in

surance until at least l year. after the effective date of this waiver and unlose al the time

I apply for insurance I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of in-

surability, I understand also that & cannot now or later have the $10,000 ndditional

optional insurance unless I have the regular insurance.

SIGN AND DATE. IF YOU MARKED BOX "A" OR "C".

COMPLETE THE "STATISTICAL STUB." THEN RETURN

THE ENTIRE FORM TO YOUR EMPLOYING OFFICE.

FOR EMPLOYING OFFICE USE ONLY

(official receiving dato stamp)

SIGNATURE (do not print)

MAR

CONT

14 Глонагу 1968

DUPLICATE COPY-For Agency JUse

Sco Table of Etective Dates on back of Original:

STANDAR A A NO

ELECTION, DECLINATION, OR WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE

Approved BoB SO NO 385

Statistical Stub (SF 176T)

To be complied only by employees who checked either bos "A" or box "C" on the election form.

The purpare of this sub is to furnis statistics on the initial registration under the liberalized life insurance program.

Box A

1. Which box did you check?

Вох С

Yes

2. Did you have regular insurance under the Federal Em.

ployees Group Life Insurance Program on January 1, 19682

No

Male

3. Your sex?

Female

Yes

« Are you now married?

No

Ш......

---

## Page 33

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSFICATNN

SECRET

Chief of Station, Moxico CIty

PROCESSING AiREY

MARNEO FOR N0I176

NO INDERING MOUIRTO

ONLY QUALITIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDIVISG

INTO.

IROM

WBACT

ACTION BIQUIRED. RURENGES

Chlot, Hostern Beatsphore Divialon

Ploaso forvard a completed fora 89 on

for revier by the tedical

Staff.

Hugh 5. WESTEI

Distribution:

2-COS,

lexico City

-

CROSS REFERENCE TO

1 - WH/Pers

1 - WH/ Reg

1 - WH/1

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HIS 5708

CLASSIFICATION

BBCBBT

OFFICE

NiH/Personneld

OFFICER

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

C/NH/Pera

C/WE/1

DATE

THUS HIE NUMBER

ORAiGATING

ITPIST

VIxE 48 Feb.68

COCEEATING

OFFICER'S MAME

1 E82

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/SS

DATE

REFISAG

GeOr R. Thoupson

---

## Page 34

14-00000

SECRET

(Then Filled la)

FITNESS REPORT

EUPLOTEE SERIAL NUMBER

SECTION A

1. AlAME

GENERAL

8, DATE OF BIRTH .SEX

A. GRADE

5 May 1923

F

8. 80.

B. OFFICIAL POSTITON TITLE

Contract Maployee

D. CHECK IX) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

FEBER YE

TEMPORARY

REER PROVISIONAL (Ses inapructions - Suction C)

"уВСТА& ГІРСІ:

Contract employee

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P..

7. OFF/OIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENTS. CURRENT STATION

DDR /HE /1

Mexico City

10, CHECH (X) TYPE OF REPORT

INITIAL

XX ANNUAL

REASHIONHENT BUPENVISON

REASSIGNMENT ENSLOVEE

SPÉCIAL (Spectly):

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- (o»)

I January 1968 thru 31 December 1968

SECTION B

W • Moak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performanco ranges from wholly inodequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A reting In this category require.

rositivo romedlol actlon. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, lo plocing es

probation, to recasignment di to separation.

Describe actlon token os proposed In Section C.

A - Adlesuote

Performance meats oll requirements, Il Is entirely sotisfoepory and is choracterized.neither by deficiency nor

excellence.

P : Proficient

§ - Streng

0 - Quistending

Performance Is more than sotisfoctory. Desired results ore being produced in a proficient mannor.

Porformanco is characterized by axcoptional proficiency.

Partormance is so exceptlonal in relation 1or

others doing simila worklos do warlanion eid viroments of she work and in comparison io tha performance of

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lise up to six of the most important specific dutios periormed during the roting period. Insort rating lorser which basedeseribos-tho

mannos.in.whichomployoo.pertoms EACH spectre dârya:

-Consider ONCY offectiveness in performonce of that duty.

with supervisory responsibilitiös MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicaro numbor of omplorens supervised).

All employees

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

Selecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English into

ATTE

workable format for Station analysis and filing.

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

CATING

Handling administrative matters for her husband.

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RA TINC

"ETTEF

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

CATTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. S

BYTE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. a

LETTRA

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything obout the amployee which influences his effoctiveness In his current position such os par

formance of spacitic durios,

productivily,

condiet on job, cosparativaross,

porticutor limitations or talents.

Based on

pertinent personal traits or habirs, ame

your knomledge of employed's overall performance during the roting perios

loce the lettor in the rating box corresponding to the stotement which moss accwotely reflecis his loval of performance

FORM 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONE

SECRET

ATIN

ETTE

S

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRET

(when filled la)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicato signiticane strengths or weahnesses demonstrared in current position herping in proper perspective pheir relationship to

overoll perleimance. State suggestions made for improvement of work perfarmanco.

on foreiga lenguage competence

Give recommenistions for training.

Comment

basis for determining lupuro personnel action

Monner el portermanes

managerial or

supervisary duties and cost consciousnesi

athenseo personnel spoce equipment and lunds, must be comm

"don "it opplicoble.

action 6 alloch a separala cheer of pappr..

li extra spaco is needed to complero

This employee continues to assist and compliment her husband,

Staff Agent,

In an

unusually efficient team.

She pre-edits

transcribed materials and puts usable material into a forn ready

for

filing, thus saving analytical and clerical time in the Station.

Her knowledge of Russian and Spanish,

analytical ability, overall

efficiency and interest in her work all contribute to a fine

performance.

SECTION D

DATE

20 Jamary 1969

2.

MONTHS EMPLOYEE

MODERNE SURVINAS BEEN

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVESEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF. THIS REPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

(aigned in pseudo on Meld Tananittal)

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT MAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXFLINATION

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

28 Jamary 1969

TYPED OR PRINTES "ANE AND SIGNATURE

(81gnad In pseudo on Held

Paul L. Dillon

Fransnittal)

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWINO OFFICIAL

The reviewing officer concurs with this report.

Subject

and her husband continue

to form

an efficient and

valuable team.

DATE

28 Jamary 1969

AL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chief of Station

SECRET

Y PED OR PRINTED SAVE AND SIGNATURE

(ained in meado on Meld

Winaton M.

Scott

Transal ttal.)

---

## Page 36

SCRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REFURT

INSTRUCTIONS

Tho following ilems of mo Firers Repoes will NOT bocompleted by field personol prepoeng the report for tronamimed to Headquartera:

SECTION A, drema 1, 6, end 8

SECTION D, iremal, do and 1 Conly ln coopoet to

•Taped or Pelnted Nano

АлЯ ДІАПАРИГА")

ANE-SEEN

DATE

ITNESI

28. January 1969

COMPLEMEO MADER PROVISIONS OR CURRENT TO ONE ON

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIONATURE OF SUPERVISOR (M pe

• ON THE

TIACHEUPIT•

DATE

28 January 1969

DATE

28 January 1969

Lagu

Willard C. CURTIS

Mitrand Curtes

SPECIAL NOTE

has a complete and molistic statement ol specilic dulles may be reported In Section B.

Homever, the nature, source, purpose or

sition of information or apprations will not be included.

puition titles and description of spacific duttes of

aprete die will be incit in Section & Indicting the lovel at esponsible on phia form, in shara coros, sonarol ararementa of

4-62

450 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

олос болонтови ститетіди діют на

DISPATC

SECRET

cecio anti-disatist

CLASSINICABION

SECRET

14)

PROCISSING ACRONE C

MANKID SUR INOIXING

Chief af Station,

Mexico City

160 BADIXING RIQUIRID

ONLY QUALILD DISK

CAIA JUDGE INDEXING

MICRCHUM

INFO.

iRON

alet, wam

AIR SCENT -

ASTION REQUIRED • RETRINGES.

REP's W9T-8132, 15 December 1961

Tax Administration

VICTOR D. UNITSI

Dlatribution:

Orig. do 1 = 009 (w/SCA)

Attochient (USC)

---

## Page 37

SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The dollaring items of Do Fioreso Report will NOT bo completed by fiold persomel preparing the ippore for tronamited to Hondouarter

SECTION A, Ireme 1, $.008 7

SECTION O, itemal, 2 endl lonly lo respece

"Typod as frialos Maro

and S+89010008)

PA PRO CO PRINTED NEVE AND

10 FE8. 48

LOUNGEN PHONSIONS OR CURES SHOUTIONS OR ROULATION

BYET AHTNO ON THI

TYrEO ON PANTRCNAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR (De DePARtERPI).

Francis J. COIGNE

TYPEO OR PRINTED NAME AND TOMAT

109106%

RE OF REVIEWINO OF PICTAL (M FA

iL Zel: 1908

Willard C. CURTIS

phot o complore and realistic srirment of specilie duries may be

sition de informalton or aperor

sit does a malice to a sello a dice he la ve been got on shia forma

No he are lord are positive fore in des cops, so pral dia malar

F01h

Д-88

450 OBSOLETE PREMOUS EDITIONS,

SECRET

148

SECRET

(When Filled fr)

EMPLOYEE JERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Michlle)

OFFICIAL

GENERAL

E. DATE OF BIRTH

5. Maz 23

3. $EX

F

A. ORADE

5. 30

7. 07E, DIV/BA OP ASSIGNMENT 6. CURRENT STATION

MeXIco CLEY

Contact Eulayco

CHECK (X) TYPE OF AHPOINTMENT

CARHER

TEMPORARY

CAREER-PROVIDIANAL (Soo inarrucelona - Section C)

XX SPECIAL (Specity!

Contrast Employee

11. DATE REPORT QUE 19 42P.

10, CHECK (X) TIPE OF REPORT

lINITIAL

XX I ANNUAL

JASASSIGNMENT SUPERVISON

HEASBIONMENT EMPLOYEE

I SPECIAL (Specify):

18. REPORTINO PERIOO (FRORI- PO)

1 January 1967 - 31 December 1967

SECTION B

w - Woode

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance rangos leom wholly inodequate lo slightly loss than satistacory.

A rating in this category roguiros

positive remodial action. The nature of the action could range from counsoling, te further training, lo piocing on

probation, to reassignment or to separation.

Describe action taken or proposod in Section C.

A - Adequere

Partormance meat a all requirements. If is entiraly satisfactory and la characterized nalthor by dollciancy noe

p. Proficiont

Portarsanco is moro than sarislactory. Dosired results oro being produced in a proficient manner.

So Strong

Performance is choracterized by excoptional proliciency.

O - Qutstanding Perfirmance is so exceptional in rolation to roquirements of the work and in comporison to she performance of

othare doing similar work as lo worrone spocial recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

int up to six of the moss imparions specifle durios performod during the rating poriod. Insers roting latter which best describos the

monnor in which employe perfoems EACH spocifie duty.

Conside ONLY offoctivonoss in parlormance of that duty.

All omployoos

wieh suporolsory responsibilities MUST bo rosod on their ability lo superviso (indicato nunsor ol amployoro aupereiaodi.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. "

Selecting

and processing

transcripts

In Spanigh and English into

ITTE

workable forrat for Station analysis and filing.

9

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Handling adninistrative natters for her husband.

EATING

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, $

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

GETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY MO$

A TIN

+ 176

SPECIFIE DUTYHO A

PETTER

---

## Page 38

SECRET

(When Filled In)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

ridleate significant strongphs or weahnesses lomonstroted In current posirion keeping in propor perspective phole rolationship de

overall performance

Store suggestións mode lor Improvement of mora porformance. Gino recommendationà for training

Comment

an forelign language comperanco.

Il.roquirod for surront position. Amplify on exploin corings given In Section B to provide bene

basis for determining tuture personnel action.

to the keel airen e ser sole lion Me es mango o mongo to do and o con clea

Section G. attach a separate sheer of paper.

Subject continues to complement her husband as a part of an efficient

team.

Her expeditious processing of transcript materials (so that

they

come to the Station ready for filing) saves the Station a

great deal of work and time.

Her language and analytical abilities

are utilized to pre-edit materfal and cut out the superflous.

She

continues to show interest in her work at which she is very

efficient.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAY I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS NEPORT

SIGN

DATE

lo Fob 63

MONTH:

MODERMY SHORT NOS BEET

29

BY SUPERVISOR

IF TMIS DEPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEE, DIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

16 Feb 63

TYPED OR FAINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Francie J. DOIGNE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The Reviewing Officer concurs in this Report. This employee and

her husband form an efficlent and valuable team.

DATE

16 Feb 1968

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIERING OF PICIAL

Chief of Station

SECRET

TYPED OR PRINPED MAME ANE SIONATURE

1/ W122ard C. CURTIS

---

## Page 39

14-00000

Seague form 29 da

PART A

A11 WNO DEG

ISTENMUST FILL

IN THIS PART.

118""

PART

BILL IN TAS

PARt

IF

WISH

BOIL

O2 CHANCE

YOUR

MENT

FIS PLAN.

il encallmers of la

1 8M9. 899W8

" it parals.

m91e in ter w94+7

Semily, diso cite

«tem 2.

YOU

CHANGING TO:R

ENROLLMERT

ALSO

PART D.

PART C

#111

PART

Ins

WISH

POU

NOT

YOU

OR 1E

WISN

CANCEL

TO

YOUR

EHROLLMENT.

PART D

FILL IN THIS

AS PART 8. TO

CHANGE

YOUR

ANAOLLMENT.

PART E

ALL WHO DIE'S

TER MUST FILL DA

THIS PART.

PART F

TO BE

COMPLETED

BY AGENCY.

REMARKS

FOR USE OX:?

BY AGENCY.

If sypeweiter is nol available, bear down with ballpoint pen to make lefble copies.

HEALIN BENEFITS REGISTRATION

FORM

Nom

• Corrigo's

) sad estate a bons do ta pogo the end, 'pant to a daises i a

11252435

¡ Old Corler's Control No

MENT DA TO CHARiA CINDS CA TUTE CO INSCINENT IN THE SALA PIAN

ALASTI

pursia

(MIDDLE DA TIAL;

trade

DAY

YEAR

Tarasort,

A. LOVA MARING ADORESS

Anna

(NUMBER ANO SPELET)

Ae

NO

002

(CITY)

(SCAPE)

Pa 012

IMPORTANt

¡@'ANNUITANT PI

DE COVERIO IMPOLOM MIS IOR HERI CHENGOIMINI.

peti

CANCIS MIS 108 HERI IMBUININI

•red belgu frora bada pose of braito

PLAN

are on, Lue your to do priora dig, flies doue vamood chider pled, Foundatio

and liege, note .

Goon. 1810909861

•Bled before Gua

PARTNES

WHO ARE NOI

• decor

aut.lк she 10.

101GI968 SAMILT MIMBIAS

FAMES O1 FAMILY ANTIDERS

CATE OF BIRSH

(Mons, Day, Year)

MiAMES DI FAMIY MEMBERS

CAll CA BIBIN

(Moria, Dor, Y001)

1S.

Mustand

[2:

[S

"¿ALE AN

2. HOMOCHENIE APPLIES

R1C:A0i

UNDER IME PEDERAL

PALMOTEES MEALIM BENEFITS PENCHALL

2. I RECT POCENCE MY PRESINI ANECALMINO NADIE TAT CORE

PEUMBER SATAN BE:ONI

Proner Emul: nant Carla Number

Covered on husb's policy

1591018 178MS 1.2.ANO ANO) TO SOOT

INECILAGAI COCE NUMBER

OR PRESENT PLAN

REILMENT CODE MING CMANGO AND MINIONIO NE CHAN'S

NUMBLE OF EVINI WHICH MaNiS CHENGS.

TO. CATE OF EVENT WHEN PEENIS CHANGE.

(see tobie on back of dupleiate toe pegan zurmbar.)

MONTH

DAY

YEAR

7{0r

Anna A. Tarasoft

12-28-67

(DATE)

WARNING, - any infantional Aulio staramrono

la this ooplication or millul migrap orantation

raiseroo therero is o: lolotion al tha low puerist-

asta by a fino of not more thon $10.000 er li

prisonmons of nor maro than 3 pooro.

or bark.

118 0.5.6. 1001.1

MANI ANO ADDISS UNCIUELT DIP CODE) CE EUPIOTINE OFFICE

CAME RECEIVED IN

FUMCYING DIFICE

J. EFMETIVE DATE CE

PIELBATE

is OFFICEE

~=)

13-28-67

A PATROLL ONCE NO.

22-31-67

S. SE 2818 READR: NO

ISIGNATE Di AUTACLES AGENCY OFFICIAL).

Contract Eapo

83-67

#T!

5132830

Triplicate- For Official Personnel Folder

---

## Page 40

4-00000

SECRET

DATE22 November 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Insurance Branch/BSD/OP

Benefits and Services Division

Health Insurance.

DDP/WH

Subject's contract is the administrative responsibility

Chief

Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and

declassification

---

## Page 41

SECRET.

cades u1 Station, Musico Cl8y

Chiel, Bustern Menisphere Division

Contract

Action Hequired: As

Noted

Belorences : A.

BI- 61 44

MEXICO CITY 2718

1.

In view of Referance B and Anasauch

was in

tho Hoadquarters area,

a nos coutract vas prepared granting

or tho bonelits of Holerenee A.

The contract nos signod by

Jand hao been lorearded for relatud procusning.

1967 {0r

Attachod 1s a copy of the contract eifective & suptonber

She clocted FBGLE but declined the hoalth

as she la incluued under her husband's policy.

nas thoroughly briefed on the provisions of the contract as roll

as the provisions of her previous contract.

STATION ACTION:

→a payrolled by the sention, rolated diduc-

for the nos

boniits (Cluil Sorvic: Rutirennt and FEGLI

aro to be mado by the Statior.

Social Socurity deductions vill,

o1 coures, conso as there is no cover requirement for sandatory

Social Security coverage.

Durine the briefing.

Inquired about the use of

sict leave.

She was iníormod sick loave can be usod in the samo

monor and por the same regulations as then she sas sormurly a

(continuod)

Attachbent:

Ag stated

Diatribution:

3-COS, Mesico 618y, E/att, b/=.

H80L5 - 5679

BECAST

Wl/Contractst

gns

(17 Nov 67)

4460

1-Ml/Contracts u/att

1- WH/1

I -TH/Reg

wo/att

C/Fн/1

---

## Page 42

SECART

HANS - 3679

staffer.

The point involvod vas -bether

she had bied granted olch

lenvo during bor "natornity leave in 1905.

She vas advised that

posalbly sho diu receivo payaunt covering

the period which her

acerved sic leavo represcated; and, posalbly at that tibe she

had only a mininal balance accrued.

STATION ACTION:

It da sugsosted the Station review her leave/pay account

for the abovo cited porlod and aduley hur of the detaila involved.

Should the records reflect she had a balance but vas not

provided the loavo, a pay ajustaont may be made up to the balance

at that tim olth an appropriate reduction of her currunt sick

lonve balance.

NOTE:

She was advised sho could not have sict

leave occruod since that time applied retrosctivoly.

It In furthor sugrosted the Station Adain or Finance

Ofilcer conduct the briefing

oue to tho necesalty for the brieler

to havo a rathor tochnical knowledge of leave.

Hugh t. WESTBY

---

## Page 43

Dear

The United States Governent, as representud by the Contract-

ing Oificer

of this

organisation,

hereby contracts tith you, as a

contract amployee under the terma and conditions set forth below:

Now Benefits.

By virtue of your erployment relationship

under this arrcesent you are:

(a)

Covered under the Civil Servico Retirerent

Act in conformance with rules and regulations

applicable to appolated enployees of this organ

Ization.

From the basic compensation paid. you

hereunder there ghall be deducted tho appropriate

rate percentage (presently 6-1/2%) for deposit

and eventual crediting to the Civil Service

Retirement Fund.

Social Security deductions

reguired by virtue of your cover activitios will

not bo relabursed you by chis organtiation.

(b) Covered under the Fedoral Employees Group

LIfe Insurance Act la conformance with rulus and

regulations epplicable to appointed employees of

this organization unless you executo u written wal

ver of

such coverage.

The Government is presently

nuthorized to bear a portion of the premium cost,

you will bear the resainder.

(c) Elisible for coverage under the Fedoral

Anployees Health Benefits Act in conformanco

with ruleg and regulations applicable to appointed

enployees of this organization.

The Government 1s

presently authorized to bear a portion of the

precium cost, you will bear the remainder.

Because

of your eligibility under this Act. (whether or

not you choose to enroll), your coverage lnder the

contract employees bealth program shall cease

thirty-one (31) days aiter thu effective date of

this agreement.

Your previous contract with the United States Government,

effective 15 July 1964, 1s

herein ternduated by mutual consent of

the parties thereto.

3. All provisions of sadi previous contract not in coniliet

with this agreesent are incorporated by reierence toto and made a

part of this agreement.

---

## Page 44

SECREI

This agrooment is effective as

of

and shall continue thereniter for tro (2) years

Unless sooner

terminated as set forth in your previous contract.

If thig

agreenont becomes offective during

an oversons assignment nothing

contained herein shall be construed as extendiny that assignzent

beyond its orikinally contesplated duration or invalidating jour

ontitlement to roturn travel expenses (11 applicable) upon cos

pletion of that asaigent.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Contracting Officor

ACCEPTED:

WITNESS:

APFROVED:

---

## Page 45

DISPATCH

Dilal of Flablue, Rocou C157

5N.C & B9

'ed times riderig

j1 180 JUT. 61, 18901 AIMO

:8.220

To seri

TO HIPLE us Cess16500 has approve a flat note antones

008°

year 1961, Atlantad do the dostor of tsa terraction salsa l

papara

KISSOR A CITIO

Matriaddra

0218. $ 1 - 009 (17/026)

ETESS RURRENT NO

147960

CAISE TANa

6 Peesales 190!

---

## Page 46

14-00000

letter of Tax Instruction for

2. Based on dlecusalona held with tax representatives of the Organi.

intion, an assesument of your Organizational Income has been approved to

satlaly your federal tax obligation.

2. Tao assessent corputation le based an an eatinate of your taxable "

coxpensation from the Organisation and your catinate of other lacone fron

The assessment couputation results in a percentage of

you salary beiny withheld each pay period to corpletely satiary your tax

For tax year 190T thirteen and ninc-tenths (13.9) per cent

will be withhold, effective 28 August 1957. The computation 1a attached.

3. In computing your assesament rate, you have been granted a basie

tax credit of $250.00.

This credit is not

quarantoed, but is granted to

advo reasonable asurance that you wall not pay a higher tax than you

would under ordinary reporting procedures.

H. Future changes in your income or tax status nay justify a revision

of the assessment rate. In this event this agrichent would be apended

5. It 1o Imortant that vou allo a ter return directly vich Internal

Care and accuracy in

preparing this return are necesaary. Any tax liability resulting mon

the tax computation on this return will be satlefied by your own funds.

A certified true copy of this tex return must be forwarded to un upon

your submisaion of the original to Internal Revenue.

Provided belov are

specifie criteria to assist you in the preparation of the tax return:

C. Other inose sot also be reported on this tax retura,

Including laterest fron the Credit Union, which will be indieated

without Identirylag the Gredle Vaion by nane.

---

## Page 47

14-00000

6. You may request an advance of funda for payment of forelgn

income or related (incon) taxes ansesued against incone received from

or guaranteed by tho Organization. Accounting for these funde will be

mnde in the fom of copies of the roceipted tax bills (or other accept-

able tax docuienta) which will be farvarded to the home office for upprro...

val and vrite-oft of expense.

T. Please acknowledged the original of this letter and return to

Readquartero, attention:

8. He appreciate your cooperation in arrangins these detallo.

VICTOR D. UNITSIY

Secretary

Acknowledged:

Date

---

## Page 48

TO

SENDER WILL CHE

UNCLASSIFID

CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTON

COSFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

seiches

DATE

INITIAL

149822

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

nes. Nantman Neviet

rele that this wid me?

FOLD HERE TO GETURN TO S

FROM: NAME. ADORESS AND PHONE MI

then

IF CONFIDENTIAL

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

101-8 Ma 237

Use previous editions

SEENET

1802)

---

## Page 49

14-00000

FORMA

3-68-

12

USE FEIVIOUS

MA COMBIDRADO ROUTINE UALISS A NICH PORCIDMARIE INDICATIO IN THE ADDRESS LENE.

2. 5019:j0

MAL ANO VELLOV COPY TO CABIA BICHSTANIAR. BIL

SUPPORTINE DOCUMENIS.

8. 00.N01

aRABIAOUT AND CONTINUA TIPIRO. DO NOT RICEED

SPERAVIEN CHARACTERS POO LINE

INCIUDING SE

.. INO TAXI LINES MISMIA THE NEMS MANGIN GUIDE

POPRIATA FOR YOUR TYPIWEITIR

BOUTING AND; ON IMITALS • BEEN OV

MESSAGE 708S

1"* C9T-83

omar

UNITs

RATI

DATE:

WH/Contracts

4460

12 Septembor 1967

SECRET

do so i ne

CABLE BICHSTANIAT DISSRAUMATION

meDA

L

DISTROY

RETURN TO.

BRANCH

BY.

FILE IN CA SHA NO.

CONFI

RID COPY

INFO!

(dasilication)

(tate and time filers)

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

"MeXICO cITY

7

REF: DIRECTOR 34619

DEATH OF

IN DISCUSSING REF WITH

MOTHEr.

PLEASE EXPRESS OUR SYMPATHY

WH Comment: Ref advised

Jean take physical on return Mexico:

FILM R30

(pico)

7

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/1

WILLTAN V. BROE

C/WHD

BILLASINO OFFICER

C/WH/CONTRACTS

COOROMATIAC OFFICERS

Excluded roo

les# automorti

SECRET

downgroding and

• dastonilisatien

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHENTATiNG

OFFICE#

COPY NO.

---

## Page 50

CLASSIFY-TO SILE

M»."

Pier Rio O

AEr... TO BRANCH D

DESTROY

0910.

Trom

ACTION

LASSIFLE) HESSAGE E TOTAL CÓTIS

SECRET

ERSON UNET BUTIFTRO

REPROCUCTION PROMIRITEO

TIME

FILE, UR,

5681

AOVANCE COPY

E RID COPY.

Dissuro !

D

5633.C9Ps. 0P2, D/ms2

SE CRE T 072355Z CITE MEXICO CITY 2718

DIRECTOR

REDCOAT

DEPARTING SEP WITH MINOR

SON FOR

MOTHER'S FUNERAL IN CLEVELAND, OMIO. SHE UNABLE

COMPLETE PHYSICAL HERE, PLANS DO SO AT MQS.

2a ALSO INCOMPLETE IS CONTRACT REVIEW FOR NEW

BENEFITS PER BOOK DISPATCH 6144. STATION SUGGESTS THIS

BE ACCOMPLISHED AI MQS DURING

CONSULTATION

31 OCT.

GEGRET

SECRET

BT

1. Frater,

niti

1-2375

civil in

she?

Sagen abi 91p4

histand

---

## Page 51

"I!!

/Ivr

WH/Poisonnel

6815

18 August 1967

ILA BACOSYALLAT DISGENINATION

SO:AL COPSIS

SECRET

02 ARCH

HID COPY

IN,O.

(audibit cor.com)

SECRAT

MEXICO CITY

RYBAT

REF:

Tains ared line and,

CITE DIRECTOR

10 2? 00'2

221!4

A.

B.

MEXICO CITY 2499 (IN 34008)

HHMS-5433

1. TDY HQS INCLUDED IN

TRAVEL ORDER,

SHOULD PLAY

ARRIVE HQS 31 OCTOBER 1967.

8. FAMILY SHOULD TAKE PHYSICALE IN FIELD AND FORWARD RESULTS.

FILL TAKE PHYSICAL MILE EQS.

9.

REE B POUCHED 16 AUOUST ANNOUACES ARRIVAL TDY REPLACENENT 1$

SEPTEMBER 1967.

Til Comment:

END OF MESSAGE

Ref A requested home leave boginning la Sapt. with

TDY Has, to discuss 1968 retirerent.

Ref B gave 1nio on TDY raplacement for

JACOB D.

ESTERLINE

AC/WXD

BIAA180O OFFICER

AC/WH/PERS

CO009411003 3490428

SECRET

dontondies

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAM THE LISUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 52

14-00000

8. 53

TOTAL COPIES

pristin

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I-MES TO FILE NO.-

BILE RIO AST. TO BRANCH O

DEsTRor Dale.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSOR UNIT NOTIFICE

ACTION

I D/ars 2

me an hite

SECRET 261615Z CITE MEXICO •

1893

DIRECTOR

HBDRAW

REF: MEXICO CITY 1989 (NU

97294)

ILLNESS DIAGNOSED AS FLOATING KIDNEY•

RELEASED FROM MOSPITAL 24 JUNE 1967. NO OPERATION

PLANNED.

SECRET

SondEr

BT

REPRODUCTION PROMIDITED

UNAT

2Б ин57:0 98388

---

## Page 53

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO.

X-RE# TO PILE NO.:

PILE HIDD

MET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY sie.

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIEO

38

ACTION

ADVANCE

P/mS ORD COPY

• ELLE, VR, WHS, CCS3, OPL

REPRODUCTION PRCNIBITED

UNIT

7 8 HE

Dhoo runs

SECRET 240020Z CITE MEXICO CITY 1888

DIRECTOR

HBDRAW

24 lus 67 W 97294

TADMITTED. TO AMERICAN BRITISH

COWDRAY HGSPITAL 22 JUNE 196T WITH SEVERE ABDOMINAL

PAIN. PRELIMINARY DIAGNOSED AS KIDNEY DISORDER. WILL

ADVISE FURTHER.

SECRET

SECRET.

BT

---

## Page 54

SECRET

(sher 8, 1600 1n)

EMPLOVEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS KEFURI

132830

ISECTIGNA

(2000)

(pirol).

(Middle)

R OFFICIAL POSITION PITLE

GENERAL

E- DATE DT BIATA

19. 96*

A. ONADE

F

8. OFF/DIVIDA DE ASSIONMENTA, CUFRENT

Mexico City

B. CHECK IXI TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

ICARCER

¡RESCAYE

TEMPORARY

CAREER-OROVISIGRAi (500 InetrucPiene -Section C)

SPECIAL (Specifr):

I1. DATE REPORT QUE IN O.F.

TIS CHECK IN TYPE OF REPORT

XX.1N18892

ATASHIONMENT SUR

MEÁNDIGRiMBNT ENTLOVEE

Contract Employce

IA. RE PORTINA PERIOD (POOM- (0-)

1. January 1966-31 December 1966

•SECTION B

8 - Wen cả

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

voto to alighaly loss than sarislochoy

A rating lo thi a category roquiras

orlermonco ranges from wholly inader che action could range from counseling, to further troining, lo plocing o

posielvo ramedial acrion. The naturo

"prebation, lo reassignment or lo soporation

Describo action loken or proposed In Section C.

A - Adeguate

Poiformanco meats all requiremone. le ls entiraly solisloctory ond ls charactorised nolther by dalicioncy noe

oncollenco.

P - Prolicion!

Performance la moro phon siriafactory, Dastrod tosules are boing producod in a prolielent monnar.

§ - Strona

Performance la charociorised by excoptional preficiensy.

Zutstanding

Performanco la 8

exceptional in relation to roguiromonte of she work and in compariaon lo lho perlormonco ol

thors doing similor mart os to morrone spocial pocognition

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lise.wp.ra.sta.al.phe;most.importons.spocifle dutlesperformed duringshorotinaporlod. Inserirotingletterwhichbessdescrlbostho

zanner in which amployos portorms E ACH ipacific dity.

Consider ONCY allecrtionesn-iriportormonce.atiphoadury.sAllemplo.yoe

mith superulsory responsibilities MUST bo rorod on thair ability lo superviso lindieato numbor of sapiorano susorrised.

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. "

jelecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English

into a workable format for Station analysis and filing

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.&

ilandling

norself.

SPEZIFTE DUTY NO, 3

administrative matters for her husband and

S

ETTE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

LETTER

TINO

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO."

SPECIFIC DUTT RiO. 8

LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

SATINA

Tane into accouns everyrhing abour the employes which Iniluencos his allectivoness in his current position such os por-

Paresanco

of apocilie dutios, productiviry, conduce on job, cooperativonass, portinont porional traita di hoblea, ar

presticular limitazions de palents.

Based on your knowledge of omoloyon's overall performance during

the roslag perlod.!

pisco sho lortos in the rating box corresponding to lhe atoremoria shica

mosl decurataly rolloers his laval of pertormance.

S

PORE 45 USE PERTIQUE EDITIONA

SECRET

---

## Page 55

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTI

Indicato sinnilicant arrengths or weakne

everall portormons.o.

'are more demerod in overent pose her in to proome

pholarolatlanship to

one fao temining.

Comment

on loroign languago competence.

Il requisod for current position.

Amality

boss for dereimining future personnel artlon.

in be use of personnel coco, eque

orach a saporate

eaten end meet me me Vod medroom

This 1s the first timo

& fitness report has been

prepared on I

Therself, although previous fitness

on her husband,

have mentloned

her valuable contribution.

She and

an excollent team.

works conscientiously

and quickly and

saves the Station a great doal

of time in the

routine processin

of paper and tapes.

Her interest in the

subject matter and her analytical ability enable

her to weed

out superfluous matcrial and assisti

translations and analyses.

SECTION D

DATE

OATHSEN

I HON ĐEỆN

DATE

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTiFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A. D, AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIONATURE OF EMPLOTEE

BY SUPERVISOR

IT INIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SMOON TO ENDLOTEE, DIVE EXPLANATION

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

ITIPED ON PRINTRO NANE AND SICHATURE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur.

with the rating officer's evaluation of

She compliments her husband perfectly

MOMFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWINO OFFICIAL

TYPED OR FAINTEO MAME AND SIQMATURE

DATE

SECRET

---

## Page 56

SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL. FITNESS REPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The folioming irmi el she Flriors Report will NOT becompleted by fleid personnel propering the report for transmitted lo Headquertera:

SECTION A, Itema 1, d, ond 7

SECTION D, ¡timo 1, 2, ond 3 1orlo do cospore lo "Juped a Feintod Mono and 9lAn0luro°)

HIS FITNES

THAT PDAY& SEEN

DATE

COMPLEMIOUNGER

PASSIONS OF CURRENT" NSTRUCTIONS OR REGULATIONS

POZARINO ON THE ATTACHED EY

DATE

67

Jonathan L.

TYPED DE PRINTEO NAME AND SIONATURE OR REVIEWINO DEFICIA

(8n peputerm)

+8 Pet 67

Francis J. COIGNE

france

Cryini

Ta Rege are to regated out de eat a sit out a no one on a ta he lose do one pro por

Poor a complete ond realistie storement of speculie cuties may be reported in Section E.

silian of information on operations mill not to inclustedi

and mopies no tear tee a hour the do get repare onelon folle in deep on of politic duties o

percific duties will bo includad in Section 8 indicating the level of responsibility.

450 o0s01

15 PREMOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

---

## Page 57

Mies Anna A, Jarabell

Dear. Mies Tarasol

deference is made to your curront contract luch lie

Unit :d States Government, a6 sopresenied by lie Contracing

Olicer.

Electiin 38 Augual 1966

sild contract is

amended by delettu; al!

rtioner to inconte taxes therefron:

and by adding terrio the dolloring paragraph:

-8.-

it's

yirl

must mately your federal dox ironly on tarabin income card la

you unde: paradi one ...

such recome

ay he paid you leer di

ni i cover inctliis

incinge di

cover, aporobond!

ind security condilerationy the Tax Commailles

oi this organication le authorized to mio

corton decribinatione

and chiablsh proccoures which mili rocut in de Ail cangfaction

of you: rederal incowe fax labilty on dard income.

1l15

speciacally understood and agreed the such deiere catoas and

procedures. rather dead ot written.

this coniract and are iegally incorporated liescio be retereree

All otto: terme and condiicone of sold contreat cerear in

full force and curet.

UNITED SH126.0110086T

---

## Page 58

14-00000

SECRET

DATE:

CIC No.

MEMORaNDUM FOR:

Director of Finance

ATTENTION:

VIA:

Chief, Coupensation and Tax Division

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUEJECT:

Tax Assessment for.

1. A flat rate covert tax assessment of this individual's

gross, taxable Agency entitlements has been spproved by the Covert

Tax Committee as Indiented below.

An acknowledged letter of tax

Instruction D] is D will be forwarded.

Tax Assessment Rate

Effective Date

their doe

2. Other payroll factors pertinent to this Covert Tax Committee

tax assessment action are

as follows:

Allays

Ap tud and tired lilli

cor

joint cooledt in

i Can ta

die. dis..

Appro

Chief,

CPD

Secretary, Covert Tax Committee

FORM

2643

SECRET

18-4-81)

3 •- CPD

---

## Page 59

14-00000

SECRET

A Juare 1066

Deur dies

licromonce la nado to your cuntraet with tir United senter

rovernsant, ir perresented by tie Centractin, Celloer, effective

15 uls 106f, as anentel, alica copires 11 July 1966.

Ficative 15 July 1066, mail contract, so amendel, 18

extorted for à veriod of ten (2) jerrg.

1ll other ters and conditione of sold enstreet renoln In

null torer and efiect.

TE WAITIN GIANT NOVEINTEN

ACCENT:

AŸPLC,20:

SECRET

---

## Page 60

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSINICALION

SECKET

PROCESSIRIG ACTION

MAPHED SON INORKING

10

Office of France

INIO

NO INDEXINO RIGUIRLO

ONLY QUALITTO DESA

CAN KUDGE INDEXINO

Chiọf, wi civialon

FROM

Chlof of Station, Moxico C1t7

МІСТОРГЛ

SUBJECT

Adain/FInance Salary Increasa-

Employee Nunter 132830

ACTION REQUIREO. RUERENCES

ACTION REJUINED: Information only.

REFERENCE: HPNS-4512; dated 6 January 1966 ..

Furnished herewith la Acoyy

of acontract amendment for

covering the legislativa salary Incroade au of 10 October 1265.

The mendment was not prepared in time for

to sign it tafore doing

on home leave and consequently had to avait hor retura.

MILLAND G. CURTIS

Attachments

As Stated Above

Distritution:

2 = Office

of. Finance, #/att

1 - Chief, WID

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AGO NUMBER

-HAT-SILASSIFICATION

DATE

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SECRET

Arnall

Reference 1s made to your present contract with the

lited States Coverament as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Erfective 10 October 1965, said contract is amended by incid

therein provision for compensation increase of the Federal Eradi.

ist of 1965, In conformance with policies and arcedures of tr

Cranization. Said contract 1s amended also to Inolude the 10m.

sentence in pararraph one, entitled "Compensation":

"Compensation will be Increased bused on lestslativa

pay Increases!

All other terms and conditions of the contract remin in fu

saace and effect.

THE UNITED STATES GOVERNIE.

COS 0)

Jain a Gready

-tem

5 chan

SECRET

Gro 8: 398

translist

---

## Page 62

ratel of =tables, laslee (sly

frIca of tinesea

¿alary Ireroan

Jochen

•49000

To Prico of Manses Ers not gneolved a ecotract

moone for the 20, esoter 1969 arlary Increnes ubich

8be : tallon bao pald insfeel do ropleétad en :Ballon 11.48766.

Morstoro, la tho absones of a contrect asalront, 18 sold

appear Chat

la hoing overpeld. ¡looso atulse.

SHIRLEY B. T'OPI

3 - G5/188100 :18y

796 - 4912

SECANT

6 sansary 1966

GROOP 1

Eastated tram piramatis

2296.

2 - lid Mvlalon

3.

C& TM/APH/CEAS

1 - PI/DP

•I - MP/Rogletry

X - CPD

8H/B7

sa/ss

---

## Page 63

14-00000

6h0оt • x0

CLASSIE-TO 0118. 10-0

M-NX? TO BILE NO..

PAT. TO ARAKEN D

OBSTROY DaIG...

THON

MEXICO "ITL

w.118

FILE VIE OF 2

CLASSIFIED MESSHOE

D/

SECRET

IT NOTIFIEO

L BE

CELESICTICO PROHIOITED.

SRID COPY

5053

ADVANCE COPY

Dio Drone Or.

SECRET 0S1945Z

DIR CITE NEXI 5559

RSF: DIR SCALEY

1. 1954

80C6. 10658

FOR BENADUN, LINOTOR 1D COASSARA

C. HUFIC),

PINE INCH, SAMAANTE BEING SENT BY HANT GOIR I

DEC POUCH. "OT POUCHED CAPLIEP AS OVERLOOKED IN STATION AS IN

FILES.

C.

FOP

SENT AMNT 5599 APP 23 (JOINT WITH

FOR LIFUED 3, NOW RITAN.

BLAZIK, SENT HMGT 590S, =° OCT 65.

3. LIHUFF i CURMITTED

SIGNED COPY BEINE POUCHED ROS.

_THOUGH OVERT CHANNELS;

". WILL REPOFT ON TI'HEOR" SEPARATELY.

SECRETALI:

lad i' i.

sor,

•CEN 5550 62414 1964 BENNDUM LIMOTOR 19 BARBARA C HUT iC

SANDAXANIE HMMT CRIS

10 NOT FOUCHED

HiiNT 5599

Fiftine

LIFUED 30 RITAN BLAZIK HANT 5909 23 05

• LIHUFF I HAS

: BTi

SECRET

Daz3

---

## Page 64

14-00000

SECRET

Dear Mar

Roference ia made to your present contract with the United

States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Effective 14 August 1964, sald contract 15 amended by

including therein proviaion for confensation increase of the

Government Employees Salary Reform ict of 1964, In conformance

with the policies and procedures of this organtration.

All other terms

and conditions of the contract remain in

full force and

effect.

2.72

UNTIED STATES GOVERVMENT

EX_

Hillards. (wols

Contracting Officer

SECRET

Group 2 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

Lit:0123s:

REVIEWED:

IS!

Special Contracting Officer

---

## Page 65

DISPATCH

CPD

4659 Per Dife

CeS-CHAN19-123Y

198.37

---

## Page 66

cd-idonor

DASHATCH

dir"t

de a teato i':1

....с"

-1r-11,

co de do doodd

Anewin wleieeiedldedie

"iti t dts

со варані

" wetelüt eHlte ert

cire ue2ou:

. . в м.ґ...

1491.

2'8,

Cay ict lie, ahig it

CPD-5E69

CFD/CEAS-222Gpat

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SECRET

(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

N° SD 48769 A

DATE

29 July 1964

I DO HEREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

RIGHT THUMO PRINT

WITNESS:

there

Herbert Manell

SECRET

28 *

SECRET

(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

N°SD 48769 B

DATE 29 July 1964

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG-

NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

(AIGNATUI

FIGHT THUME PAINT

TENT

WITNESS:

Gerald F. GESTEINER

SECRET

---

## Page 68

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

(Thon Filled in)

CONTRACT TYPE 8 SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE

: 15 July 1904

YOUR REFERENCE: Menorundun dated 13 July 126%

CASE. N0.

* 131751

TO

SUBJECT

: TARASOrT, Anra 1.

1. This is to Inform you of Security Approval of the Sibject person for

Contract. Type B employment as specifled in your request under the provisions of

Headquarters Régulation 20-53.

Unless arrangements are made within 60 days to contract with Subject within

120 days, this Approval becomes invalid.

3.

Ihis office is to be advised when s Contract is sigred by Subject and when

the Contract Is terminated.

4. As a part of this contracting process:

A polygraph interview must be arranged by your office.

A polygraph Interview 15 not necessary•

W. C. Encome

W.

Osborne

FORM

10.68 1 992a

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 69

SECRET

REQUEST, FOR APPROYAL PR INVESTICAILYE ACTION

1 sorro!

CI/@or,9108a1 Agproval and Support Division

то:

SUBJECT:

Tarasoll, Anna

CROPTONVIS, PILUDONI,

ANA CR ALIASES

CATE

13 July 1964

FROM:

WH/PERS

CH - 408

PROJECT

Station Support

CAICA TILE NO.

де дос тіке по.

90 8 16R

NO.

131751

1. TYPI ACTION REQUESTED

PHOUTTEUHAL

POCPEIETANY ATTROVAL

COVERT

NaME

SPECIAl IQUID iSO lold invastiention)

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

CPIRATIONAL

APPATIAL

PROKISIONAL

RASGHAL.

Туро В

PUR LIAISON WITH U.S.

OFFICIALI

SPECIFIC ADLA DO USI

- MaxIco CLEX, Mexico

PULL DETAILS OR PSE

Hor principal rusponalbillty will be to asalst hur husband, a

In the transcribing and

processing of the stationg

LIENVOY LIPMAICK produsE.

Subjece rosigned from stall employas atatus on 8 Suptember 1963.

She the been with ten hitsaid is, Mpso during interionperick

INVESTIGATION AND COVER

YES

A. l.$.60050429847

INTEREST MAY DE SHOON DURING ENVESTICARIONI

B. CIA INTEREST MAY DE SHORE DURINE INVESTIGATION!

C. 15 SUAJECE ARADE OF U.J, GOVERAMENY INTEREST IN MIMI

D. IS SUDJECT AMARE DO COA INTEREST IN MIMI

L. ANDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS DU COVERAGE IN PUE IMUFSTICATION OE

SUBJECY.

F.

SUGGEST "COVED

PARTERY" TO ÓI USED iN CONDUCTINO PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OR SUBIRET.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EUPLAIN FULLY

Ф00

g.

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

OR COUIVALINT. IN 121 COPIES

ATTACHED

O#

11 11) COPY ATTACHEO

NO RECORD

BILL FORBARD

NO

¡BILA FORWARS

PRO

SILL

BE SCHORAGEO

SPIEG LISE ATTACHIN.

TRACES

MOS-DEROGAPOGY

2. DIVISION

TRACES

ASH-DERGAN: 34»

B. FIELD TRACES

BILL SCABARO

DERGCATORI ATTACHES

I DEROGATORY ATTACHED

UEPOGATORY ATTACHED

NỌ

X;

#ECORO

DEROGATGAY

1a5n).

CHECRED

BMIPAATEM

LENATURE OI CASE CIFICIE

1 7721044049

1.E.

Brooka

SECRET

(81

---

## Page 70

DISPATCH

Glot, 1 0196137

CASSII CATION

kero

FROM

NOiDo oNissiCii

MATAID i 12511140--

DO INOCUISE REQUIRIO

ORLE QUALITHS DESE

CLE MOGE ISCOUT

WICROFILAB

Gilet of starin?, isrios (103

we contret

manorather turer camarate corer atrochrent am time contes o

a simed field contract completer on tie sublect of reference.

to dento constrail: mere enort md concentmblon on the

preparation of ascesarnt etudies eu the racisi, conlerent.

hand Gutter

Asteciment:

As stated riove • (UPC) "i

Aright it pay

c/wH/55

CPD EAS

5Ü64

EFD!

Distribusion:

"Gir,

w/att

1 - 3P, 1/att

Г,.

01 1041383138 55040

Ladies

ERC:a351 nialiaz

DISPATCH SURIBAR AND ARABER

17.46

CLASSITICATION

31v0

12 1218 1054

HES FILÉ NUMBER

---

## Page 71

1: J'u?

Per, Ana%e

Me intsed centes rovermont, di roserento! bu fle Contractlan

oraleor, bonoli contracte aitimou, ai a contract eriore,

mrulcos indi tra seriamarce of ditica t s 6971ront12l 799019

under dle follatar taro aiat comistiona:

erico a errore e cecta commer adio ou w1l1 1d

comperated la mamus colorated at. te mos no 12.53 for tour.

ramanta Mill le mio an ctrocto! le su th ellean in a ratier

accontable to the Cour arit.

Turo: 1!1l ha nthole themtoom and

subriated by tho "nitod itatee coverait.

Benefite. (a)

you c11l le entibled to death ari cima: 1l1ty lenofita

erini to Eloro nutrortiene under the faremal tmlerent companation det,

Cals hy 10u, your hire do loml corsentetima under

thls errartan till la

procoore ly ene loverinent la secominoe vist.

1ts procecurea La ach zaino? ai3 not to tirali socurltr

(1) 108:111 in entitler to ntri and arourl leave.

aqual to and subdnet to tie core rulan con molatima amlicatle to

and alnces perrover in somos he amoreurinte pirresentativos of ti

novammant®

allounces 1n a miner setlana guat nos corti: in the decine Ferros

Aet (50 1e roCoda, dm. 1001-1015).

(1) Tie covermant 11ll metrold foca the coronsatlon

due you under thlo amament costal cecurtty deductions la conferanco

alta the bagle social security lodelatlon, as areodoi,

121 tie procedures!

Tor consens of neurls, all liutries concorint spur

rolationalip to the social decurit? surton stall le mio directly to this

oranisatio, and 1n no event my i sudi prorler in pruomo in pou

or on tour sotale to any reresentativo of t'o cremeratal unle.

nennathle for lolorentlas ble soclal securtt; nir.a%.

• Excution ci torment:

Ir in ti reMoranes of siricas uner

his contract you asaire the certo or rovamment fando or tare 1191

of record to pronerty of eny nature senteuer und merover altuat?, mileh.

smarty "as, in frei, been curohared with anton of the loro Coverarent,

vou tereby moomiza ari relmouledio tio eristonce of a trist rolationaria,

cister extosi on conctrictive, en pru appe to execute dateor

doamante ru le ¿ruired ti the anverine tocronos t'lo rolatlor.1:

You a1ll te monuired to keen forgver secret this

entmos and all' intormatton silei sou ra sitain ly maaco tarco?

(unlesa peloased in unitino bi the favorent cron cuci cullation),

xit?. 1il kno-lean t'at violation of sael rochie tay sullect ou

to criminal resecutlon undar tre Esilian LaNs,

1te? 25 "11? 114?,

as amendod, in otier arlicalle leis ari veruletion.

---

## Page 72

14-00000

instructlor. Instructlons rocolved.rg vo for tie Covemment

In brefine, eminine or othoruise are a vant on tals ememes cal

ars Incorporated herala, providal that such Iritrictims are not

Inconsistant with the torn beroof.

ó. Ihatharison Corlemente, "o promises or comitants pertalnine

to Mrita, privilenes or berries ether than those erressl: stimulsted

In writino in this acropment or au arencent thereto stall be bindin

mn the Coverent.

I Terr. This contmet le effective as o?

shall continue thereafter for & perfort of tro (2) yesrs unlasa

teminated elther:

and

(8) ity thirty (30) days' petual notice by either porty

hereto, or

(b)

iithout prlor notice by the fevermoit in the event

of a breich o? this coitrect by your violation a cle

securit: provision harol or by your otherilse renderlas

yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Sublect to the avallejility of apramations, this arcorent my he

extortied uro: notice Mo the fovement.

Termiration of this arreament

will not releane you from the obliottons of my securily cat! you

may be required to tree.

UNITED STATES COVERT ENT

3Y

Him CRet

Concractin," Officer

ACCEPTED:

vIness: 14.6u1 Muscl

AFPROVED:

.. ....

---

## Page 73

14-00000

1ASOIFI'D ALESSAGE

. . sste a

• ra aune

SECKET

.....

RONTING

: CR.CiOF

FROM

-iti=o

ICHON: Wi S

INFO : c1, ciois, cipar, 5R '%, VR

8r0r? 7.919919?

C1 951

AF.OCOAT

• 2J161:95704

1= 9.035

•SSd SOArdd0DSD MdE THA HOms

2. REDUFIT ING IUITIATE CLEAPNICE, FORWARDING FIELD COLTPACT

SOV CONPLETEIT.

10 SNCIIUZIGJLOVSUHO-SINBASSSSSE HOILVAGORYd N0 GS0. GiFULIGONOS

01 wlh 33Hd G7n09 SallnG iClldlabo.dol üol CilvTSiRel dOANasT

ASAD TO ASSUME PAFT OF LATTER'S

EYPLOY WIT? OF

SÜASIA lCIVIS LURC.O U SUUTTON MiN SOISERGTo did oy

OFF. MONS-BOER, 11 JUNS 1953

Rutfly?,

SECRET

BIRIODUCTION EY DIRER TRAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PAORIRITED

Eipy Pio.

---

## Page 74

14-00000

$

R

Chier ol seaticu, tarlee

XX

chlaf, tHu

Alfo of

Please Inform Subject that har restgaailon fros staff

employee status has been procassed and made effectivo as of

8 September 1963.

END OS DISPATCH

Distribution:

2 Mexico City

#89:5-3145

SACK

23 Septandar 1963

WH/PERS

ET

k.S. Renchan

7555,

Distalbution:

- WH/Reg

1 - WH/ PERS

C/WH/3

---

## Page 75

PO

1N:P 60:

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico

SECRET RYBAT

NO INOCKING RICHNED

ONLY QUALIFIRE DESTA

CAM. PURGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

Chief®

WHD

Wife of

ACTION RIQUIRLO RESCRENCES

The wife of

has asked that she

be considered for employment in a contractual capacity.

as advised chat biographic information would be forwarded an

hat whether or not her services were used would be un to ch

Station.

2.

Subject has previously subnicted her resignation from

ataff

status and was processed out effective 7 June and placed

on 90 days LWOP.

In the event there is a requirement for her

services within the 90 day period, she may be hired in a contract

capacity. without further clearances.

da parade,

Her contract should con-

cain proviaion for Clvil Service coverage; other benefits would

be in accord with her contractual status as outlined in FHB 20...

1000-1.

At the time the contract is forwarded Headquatters, a

functional description of her duties should

also be forwarded.

3, Subject is scheduled to leave with her two childrer

by train in 16 June.

She and the children will enter on tourlat

cards. They have also applied for regular passports.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:

Biographic Profile, USC

Distribution:

3 Mexico City, w/att. USC

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

: it/aurs

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

HMM-S- 2980

CLRSSEICATION

SE CRE I RYBAT

OKIGINATING

Forg

DIFICER

pit.

COORDINATING

11 June 1963

MAS SIT HEARINEE

Dire wi?

pAlE

1415M

31c

TAJUN

REiLASING

---

## Page 76

SECRET/RYBA

SEPARATE COVER ATTACIMENT

IMM-S-2980

DOB:

5 May 1923

POB: Cleveland, Ohio

HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE: 1942

CHILDREN: Daughter - Barbara, 21 Dec 1945

cc:. cricod, 20 Mar 1949

EXPERIENCE:

1944 - 1945 Clevelaid Trust CO., Clevaland, Chio

Commercial Bookeeper

1955 - 1956 Amerlean Trust CO., San Leandro, Callf.

Commercial Bookeeper

8 ApT 1957 EOD KUBARK, Clerk, GS-4

14 Jul 1957 PBJointly, Clerk

9 Mar 1958 KUDESK, Intell Clerk

2 Nov 1958 Promotion, GS-5

8 Jan 1961 Promotion, GS-6

7 Jun 1963 'IWOP for 90 days at end of which elme

resignation wili be effected.

FITNESS REPORT: 30 June 1961 - 30 June 1962, Overall Rating "A"

(Transilterates Russlan Material ps)

TRAINING: Basie Supervisors, 2-13 May. 1960

TEST: Russlan, Reading "E"

SECRET/RYBAT

---

## Page 77

KENORANDUA RECEIPT

17. "June 1963

TO!

WH/Pers

FROM: Mrs. Anna Tarasofi

SOBJECT!

Recolpt of Advance of Funds for Transportation fron

washington, I. C. to Maxico ClEy

I heredy acknowledgo rocolpe of the followiogi

$525.00 1n conjunctlon ulch Subject, It Is

understood that this advance la for kuma loves:

fIrst class rall travel Washington to Mexico Cley.

Mexico and related

and anticipated per dien

for three days for mysell and two dependent children..

Accounting for the advance will be submlered to the

Mexico City Statione

Pleasa rotar

_ alged copy lleal of lio recalon

Anna TerasoL:

• 002 10.

• BMO B8 752 98PLAC88 OCH

₩ 1 cro

---

## Page 78

14-00000

SECRET

y June 1989

MEVORANDUM FOR:

Pornounel seourity Division,

perice of Security

SUBJECT:

Mrs. Anna Taraaoff, Contrant

Esployee Cloarance

It la requestod that olearance to granton for the

employment of Urg. Anna Tarasoff as a Contract hayloyee,

Type A or R at the Mexico City, Norico station to provide

olerloal services.

Nra, Tarosort lo promontly a 05-8, staff on loyee.

She is being roassigned to the CS Dovelopment Complement

placed on a 90 day LHOP statua effeotive COn T June

In order to join her husband.

3.

In the event the Noxioo Station can use her services

she would be enployad lu a contrectual cannelty ant hor

resignation froa staff esployee status would

be offooted the

doy prior to tho offoctive date of contrnot.

In tho event additional information is desired,

please contact Jr. Willian Renohan, oxtension 7575.

". E. BROOKS

Chief,

#ll support

---

## Page 79

14-00000

SECRET

F08101 181

Al jenne

"PARTARED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

5 June 10U3

SERIAL NUMDIE

MAME (5:09%..

maddles

0: 3935

NATURE OF PINSONNEL

AC: 10W

GATE BEQUESTED S.

CATEGORY OF EMPLOVMURT

LOP AID REJICUINMI

6

1 7 1 63

RUCTAR

.

ALTAIRSTY

(Completod By

OrGice of Personnel

*. FUNDS

ABLE

3:7-3710-1000

10.

LOCATION ON OFFICIAL STATION

ORGANIZATIONAL

DESIGMATSO&S

DDP CI ETAFE

CI DEVEZOPMNTE COMPLETITE

POSIT10N TITLE

SU LEXHORUN, DOC.

$ 2.

$6019804 MUMBLO

CAREER SEAVICE DESIGHATION

WILL CAK

14, CLASSIPICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LD, OBC.) 19, CCCUPATIONAL SERIES

18.

GOADE

ANO STEP

0323.01

6

• 1a

2. 47.

500050

10. REMARKS

SEAS: NUP CI LINIT/SPICIAL DITIEPIRITSON METR/ROTICIS IF/INTELL CLI/EN., DO C/0151

Employco's deel working day 7 Juan 1903.

IWOP (UD) ¿O»l PArDo 10 8o) LOSTe Of abaence to secagony husboad to sou station -

not to exceed 90 dayto

co to ancurlty and flainos

SIGNATURE,

RCCUESTINE OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNEO

198.

SIGRATURE OF CAREER

SEEM IC:

APPROVING DATE SIGNED

OFFICER

18, 78108 75. tacee, get,

ceot

CODS

§ Jua

63

SPACE BELGA FOX

EXCLUSIVE

USE

OFFICE 50019:

22.9109.59

27.

H:134

1161

MaNDOSTIE

OF

THR. OFFICE OF

PERSONNEL

26. 9218 06 5AM

00.

and.

Da.

CA? 05:11

•А.

135 502u9'":

710.

*c.

7B. ATE TAPIRES

190.

24. S9LCIA,

DEFERENCE

+*.

3. vl. raste

PREPSOINCE DO STOO. CON, CAPE

coor

DA.

647 afBr4T UAT8

4:00

EON DATA

19. CARLO CATEGOTT

CAO!BESN

ectr

POGY/TEMP

a. 50510: 51: 9110 43.

0=001068

1. or

57813

PREVIOUS GONFANBERI SERVICE OBIA

COrE

• 6$ 19:001,061

1 36 000

cost

+O BERVICA

?.09

AFPROVAL

DATE APPROVED

Д3.

POSITION CONTROL

CERTIFICAPION

8 41

FORM

4.08

.1152

BEYOUR 1815104

SECRET

---

## Page 80

PASE 1900

WOODROW WILSON

HIGH SCHOOL

PUPAS PENMANINT RECORD

TH Nà 980.

Rat. tel

1p941gatn 1000

Ons. 19t

Cands tery

UNOFFICIALL

Ha Hertarz

PORT IN

BARBARA

FARASON?

Barla Dessel Thasark

5209 - 15th Streat, N.V..

положе

Oblo

112.%

ALAI

Anke

slal

55"

A/l

109,

gita

. 1m

Bec Tron

9.5.62

dans 1

UD. M307

R

протоней

2211

UNOFFICIAL

29.00

PRoTo 3000009

DAT 0» war

9,6060

Dasar J8e

DATE D" WP IWPHY

EM 26990

12.22.45

ва I

Rungsitts

Trach

parasel Fa

Bal 10r seinen

Deyn Promen!

Day

BALLEA

can.

Par, wiene

---

