# 104-10097-10340

## Page 1

104-10097-10340

jer S5003T

21

POS a MEXICO CITY

' GDP, 100P, G/SCO 4, G/CI, G/FI Z, RI/AN GUAN, G/WH

SECRET 201813Z

PRIORITY WAVE INFO DIR CITZ MEX: 6336

RYBAT TYPIC AADANTY PORUMEN

REFE WAVE 7520 (10:01165) it

L0 LAUULIA PASSINOERS APPARENTLY FOLLOWING RECENT. REFUEGS

PARIOR AND HEADINO FON LAD. BORDER DITHOUT WAITING

"OF" VISAS

BENI, A:SUPER- CONTADTEO SEVERAL AND DEVELOPED FRACJENTARY

1170.

89. 70110:INd 770

LOSSTER FISHUG BOAT FROM ISLE OF PINIS: BOAT EELONGS 23

"HARTIRES DS DAIRE" FISHERS COPERATIVE, REGISTRY KUMBER C-IG-CID,

FORMERLY BELONGED DO EROCOLONEL CARLOS PONCE DUVER OF COMPANIA

DE PRODUCTOS DE CELA DO FINCS,

SAID THAT IT WAS DICIDED

THAT "CONRADO" UHOSS MAZNONVE IS

WOULD ADVISE

THAT GLANDESTIRE DEUIPICUT AND MATERIAL

. RECEPTION OPERATION

AND BECAUSE

COLLD NOT BE: -7÷

AUTUPZIZED TO MANS RIGS UP IN VISU OF FAGI: HE UNDER SUSPICION:

AND RECENTLY PRISOUE3, "CONTAD" NAS ADVISED OF THIS ON 20 COT:

17a1 01600 3P0s

THAT BOAT COULD NOT BE SENT OUT FOR

3422513

13404

---

## Page 2

502-03

iN 55077

ARE COTN WILLING TO UNDERTAKE FURTIER

LESSIONS IN THIS AREA WHICH THEY KNOW WELL. THEY THINK THAT

OUNER OF BOAR

REGISTRY

WILL: HOLP, ALSO POSSIELY

SHRIMPER, OWNER OF BOAT

REGISTRY

ALTHOUGH

SOMEWHAT LACKING. IN

TRAGE.

SAYS CAYOS AGUARDIENTES IS COOD SPOT SINCE NO RESTS

FAN. TEN MILE STREICH AND UNINTERRUPTED LINE OF NAVIGATION FROM

HE TO OPEN SEAS

JILL ES AVAILAZLE SOON AT ADDRESS OF

WEST FALL BEACH,. PHONE

-6. FCLLOVING FRON

WHO UNCLE OF

NAS LEADER OF

HONA RESISTANCE MOVERENT (MOVIMIENTO ORCANIZADD

METAL ANTICOULISTAY,

RECSIVED INSTRUCTIONS FRON

AFIATION COMANDANTE WITH INDENTED SCAR ON FOREHEAD, AND FrON

MONA OPERATED ON SIGNAL "TAMAKUN." CODE

PUBER CNE ISANT "LISEAS LAS ARMAS PARA RECIBIR" AND CODE

CUMBER TWO MEALT "PREPARADOS PARA SALIR." IN AIL 1962 MONA

RECEIVED MSG "TAMAKUN ONE TWO" BUT NO CONFIRMATION OF DATE AND

HOUR OF MISSION •TUO VAY CONTACT LOST AFTER TRAT. AT ONE TIME

GROUP RECEIVED MSG "LLAMANDO A TAMAKUN, ENTREVISTA A BENJAMIN

MAS*

THEY HAD NO CONTACTS OR CODES MENTIONING BENJAMIN AND COULD

Nor:

ACT ON THIS.

13404

---

## Page 3

CLASSINED ENACI

IN 65053 PACE?

7 c

MAS VITH HIN A LISG IN A NEW CODE UNICH IS IS TO DELIVER

TO CHIEFS OF HIS MOVEMENT.

8. MONA REMEER BENITO ORTECA VAS ARRESTED IN GETOLSA ALO

EXECUTED IN LA CALANA FORIRESS. MENBERS IN PRISON AND SENTENCSS

ARE "LIMPIO" RIVES, 30 YEARS: "MACHO"ORTIZ, SO YEARS: RIGAEDO

ELANCO, 20 YEARS AND RIGOBERTO "GJAO" PALENZUELA LOPEZ, 20 YEARS.

"GUAO" WAS IN CHARGE OF MONA IN HAVAÑA, CONTACT WITH HAVANA

BROKEN SINCE HIS ARRESI JUNE 1963. NONE OF PERSONS EXECUTED

CR IN PRISON KNEW OF TAMAKUN OPS.

9.

1962 MISSION WAS SOUTH OF CAYO CAMPOS. HE SAYS

VIGILANCE IN THIS ZONE MERELY ROUTINE WITH PERIODIC SEARCHES 0F

SHORE LINE TO CAJON PIRSONS TRYING ESCAPE. FEELS THAT FESIERHEN

CF PRO-REGIÑE PEOFLE AÑONS 400 FLUS FISHORIEN ISLE OF PINSS.

10.

ACTIVITY OVER THAN THAT IN WHICH IN INVOLVED IN INTERICT CY

ISLAND UHERE ME MORICO IN ASPAIR SHO?•

JAS INFRISCISS

SEVERAL TIRES, WORNED CLANDISTINELY WITH

AND

DOTH RON IN JO So

11. NO ONE GOTTACTED INCUS

12• STATICN HOPES ACOUS ILADLE OF INTO VILL PROVE USCELL VAVE.

SUGESST BEST KETHCO PICK UP GROUP AS FILTERS ACROSS EORDER IS

TIRCUGH ADDRESS PARA 5.

13. INDEX®

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: RUBRIED IF MEL CAN ARANCE CONTACT WITH SUES (LICENTIFIED)

FOSSIBLY COMNECTICN THEIR FORTIE VISA RACIESTS

13404

---

