# 104-10111-10008

## Page 1

104-10111-10008

scting Chlofa Counter Inthlliferce Staff

Deputy Direotor of Scooty (Imestigations and Support)

FrOjact IONAIVEST

14 detotra IX60.

DDS/35 -

ADD ISS

Des Clist

A la Chief

Ch. COR

Ch. SRD

Cir. Mav. Dr.

Ch. Sup. Br.

Dosk 13-

/ Dist 583

1.15 Ting

Control Dest

153/1

1o. Rotarsics la mia la your nemeanta dated 6 Cotober 1960

which rorinated this offico to esto appropriate sotion lo altorpt to.

Intoncept ary lettera sent fron Cuba to the ostonalito paranto of tbo

tues porcons presently inisoned by busan authoritloe-

20. In tbo cros si klarad and Ranial CMONally tha 205100a1

gerants of farlol I CAllish, thais addrass an listod on his birth

certificate lal

fonnaylvanta, ransomnto hard ben made

to provito that any snil addracind to CANNElL at

varia vill to re directed to a poot offies sor ostallished und

In sualtiong

tho tanas of his careda have tora added as coalirasaces of tha

backatozed live alracs origially established by this offion for

chintle at Easteserter, lew lorke Mia address appenrs so his

currone rovidence address on his srima licnnos an othar dosinte

€105.

3o Pastace and Clodya DAMaLU, 2955 Eudora Averas, Cloroland,,

Chio, aro listod an minents on the birth cartlfierto carried fry

Bustoco 1, DARRUIT.

It haa boen dotrained that thero Is no Endora

Avarus In Clevoland,

thaugh there is an Endora Rond. Fouavor, bours

numbers on Bodora Road run only Bros 16500 to 17820.

trangesente

hare bean complated to puvide that ny inil adsceod to MANAViT st

Isitora Avarus or Fadora Road will be Intercepted and dalivorod to a

represectative of this offloa.

4o DANtROVT's drivers licenso int ethor doctntation Ilot 3915

Tolftald arnon, faltiar, laryland ay his eirent a ress.

has eupty

apartreat has boon lated In the name of solaet at this saless

which era sa ratrinad only until such tira so the mangesert obtain

a pornont tramut indor a long tm least.

It may be

expected that:

the anartront will to ranted suring the next north, at which ties

arrragesenta will to made to fored my nail for Farmur or his.

mento to a pore offica lox establinhad and sorrlead by thia offico

at Baltiana, irylande.

#387.2

Filê

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Concaring talior end Aun INtor, the roilonal parenta of

fern so Trell, ata sues erustata in terry they arated at sto

Clerrilla Avorary.

Thera la no nuairs 54 on

Glonvilla AT-rea

In Eastone

To alto la occupied by apartment houses

none of which is matered 54o

'mangasanta have beau rare to provide

that any mall addrusad to altait or bie menta at Glorille ivema

will to redireotod to a rout office box catablishod and servicod by

thia offico at lostong

Tha naireno 509 "ast 17 Chront, dea Jork OitTa agposes on

TAN doorantation ss 110 curent alereat.

A treat apartent

hao toor rented in IUS 'S may at this addross throurh 31 Cotober

2060, and mall addroaded to him do his rational parento vill la

socoated.

te 1t la coctdod that the agnessant slauld to antalad

adler 31 cototes 1001y tila diflea mould be provided wiv 10.900

mant nuscos to cover additional rontal payron, undon will do

apprazientoly one hundred and forty dollara (31400) per santi,

retentlon of tha apart ant la Tilloki!s nose 15 conelcarod unnacos

say, this offica vill mango a forariire proconua to recitreet

nry ball to a yost offica los aù lou fork chiy, lich ravice face your

oftico.

in resporaa to your Inquiry as to what dioposition would

norally bo unda of foralin mil which la undelivrablo becaure of an

Ircorract aMonds, you are sortead that loond post offico stutiona

vill sals so attempt. to sotoraino id there la a local correct address

Lus the edisaanno by chockare local directories, so thay vill do with

Foralen mall whieh te luarrotly addreasod

Is considerod "acolivorable", and le raturned to tha country of

origin, with no nurue so coternine tro corneos arcease

In accordanco with the requat contalad in paradach tio of

your roferenced monozumus, the folleuine post office ad rose has bern

establishod for jour taos

3/PV

Most Carico Rost

Bryland

This adkoes will ba corviued on a moo woolly tasis, uatll

In susaived Dos your oilies Inaleting that servicing shoula

to Increason.

Your clico will to sottfied upon the a dolpt of fury

nall trough this coot ordtos tor, or trough any of the armngements

sado

st Boston, los Muck, Clovoland,

10

FOR DES DINORER CE SECURITIS

co!

43816

19985062067

43872-

LAVFRY : rIa

14 Oct 60

Victor R. ihita

---

