# 104-10172-10306

## Page 1

104-10172-10306

HOUTINO AND RECORD SHEET

RIDI (in-

CONDENS

pste

TO

12%

1BF

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

5.

1201

COPY

10.

18.

12.

SR/CE/P

8ad.

15.

16.

18..

18.

19753

pronosti-motiol

1N=79930, 23 thory59

dere

Repe

89ASSUAE

1400L

ABATHACP

PILE NUMERA

561-19015%

UOCUHESTDUNOEA

** *

ond

21BR

Re AIda

588 1888198

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

calaf, is

Chief, SR

Chior of station

27 007413000

2962

Diplemedi

12 May 1958

Marce

ARAMEID ASE INTO RIATE

NO RAVING MUUIBLO

INOLIDUG CAN BE AUrID

AT QUAINHO INS DISH ONLY

urigorly to dialuor

liose = for information

A .

B.

Q54A 381922

05H4 385922

On d May Or180r1y I0. Golub phoned Costille for lunch for that day.

Moot of the tine was spont on polite conversation and no political sopies

more discussed.. Golub asked Costille about his hone and fanily in the

States and his vacation plane.

Golub mentioned that' he was not going to

Da able to take a vacation this aunter as he had hoped.

Nia ity, he garo the reason that the Ambassador, whom Golub described na

still being new and not quite sure of himself got, had told him he vanted

him to remain 1n. Helsinkl as he was the only person of officer rank in the

Consular Section.

(Station comment: This might de bacause of thrumacher's

reported visit to finland shortly - see

Not once during

the lunch did the subject mentioned in references

concerning Costille's treatment in the Sovlet Unlon come upo

3. Golub mentioned that he had been in Finland not for about four

goars and that he had been anjoring himself very much and liked Minland and

the Finns.. He sald that he was glad that he did not speak english an he

would then probably be sent to England or the United States, which in him

opinion vero too far from his home in the Soviet Undon. According to Golub,

this made travel home,

as vall as phone calls, too expensive. When Costillo

asced him where he mould like to be sent next, he answered Moscow.

He stated

that over three youre vas too long to be avay from one's country.

4o

No arrangemento were made for. the neat lunch, but 1f Golub runn

tree to fora, he will be phoning Costille next week.

Golub usually averages

about one phone call a wonk.

Weller jokit

Willien L. Costille

Nay 12, 1959

Distribution

2 - NB

2

2

6/8R

I Lassarat

---

