# 104-10217-10057

## Page 1

104-10217-10057

Encoins.

SECRET

81 UN 1961

Directer

Fedaral Bureas of 1

Jo street 100

& Departy Directer (Plans)

BUSECT, BLOY GUTTERN HoRoya 201 - 2693 49

If representatives of your Bureau are atill in contact with floy

OUTIERRET Manoyo, Me would appreciate your re-interviening him with

rospect to certaln matter. Along thia lins, se are enclosing here-

with a liat of quention to which we rould 1lka to obtain replies.

Any assfutance you are able to render in thie natter would be most

helpful.

CSCI -3/765, 868

Enclosures 1

J:ut

12 June 1961

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

•I - RI

1

• GI/REA

1

• CI/LIA

571/4/R

1 - MI/4/CI

Based on MEMO ErOR C/ME/5

27 March 1961

SECRET

GS COPY

301-269349

.253

---

## Page 2

AMERICAS

, Solidaridad Hemistérica Z&

•ULIO DE 1953)

• 13 DE JESTO DE 1961

-Natteras De

-Miami y Florida

151349

LEGARON A MIAMI LOS COMANDASTES MENOVO T FLEITAS--Procedentes de la prisinn de McAllen, en Texas El

aron al Aeropuerto Inte macional de Miami, los comandantes del Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray, señores Ele

Gutiérrez Menojo y José Fleitas, quienes estuvieron internados en la misma durante varías semanas tras las imestiga-

ciones que se efectuaban para dejar aclarada su situación.

Tanto Gutiérrez Menoyo como Fleitas, declararon que se u-

sán a los grupos que tectas contra Castro. - (Foto Gorr).

11-769341

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-2 e inini

....

41a 200

Ep-Castro Aide I

Released by U.S.

Ey JAMES ET CHAVAN

Former Castro rebel leader

Floy Gutierrer Menoyo arrived

in Miami Sunday with 11 fel-

Jow Cuban exiles after almost

five months detention in

ar

Immigration Sersice camp at

McAllen. Tex.

Greeted by his wile and a

Iwildly cheering tarang of fel-

lom anti-Castro refugres,

Me.

boys said he and ethers had

freed "on parole" by the

goverament and probably

permitied lo live

{Menoyo, lesder of the Sec-

ood Frant of the Escambray

in Las

Villas Province, wa#

credited with making the big

pesa at Santa Clara ia Decem-

her 1958 which permitted Cas-

tro's forces to overparos Pres-

dent Fulgencio Batista on the

following New Year's Day.

A major with Cantro's post.

Fecolation

artay.

Menoyo

Ped the country last Jan. 24,

with

companions.

Joyful Reunion

•*Alenoyos at air port

activities against seneral other

countries, the State Depart

ment requested tost normal

parole procedures be denied

zhenta

Artiving with Menoyo from

Texas Sunday were Armando

FleitaR, Lazaro Asencio

and

Two days later the entire

Andres Nazario, all former

group was whisked ole to the

deténtion

camp al

Meallen

Castro maiors: Erela Ofedo,

Angel

Banes. Fiorendio

immigration offcials whe

elused to expiain the move.

Pernas, Domingo Oriega

Rozer Redondo,

mere reports

hou- Jesus de la Rosa and Antel

that because of Menovo'a Ruz

Leutenante,

Miami Herald -12 Jone 11

1

....

,. I

---

