# 104-10182-10120

## Page 1

104-10182-10120

sorry des

32533 338228

ASSI

SECRET

23 Sentester 1959

MENORANDIM FOT THE RECORD

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. Sablect phored me on 9 September 1959 to say that be was.

had been done cossarning our us

"waiting the resalts of the investigation'and that I sould be 1a

touch with his when the infornation is complete.

Fe said 1t ass

rather urger: chst he go to the Dochican Repubile because of the

many smore shut something is about to start there agulast cube.

I told hin that I appreciated his sense of urgency but that the

matter 19 no? one that I can control.

Subject sali that he has

some busiress reasons for going there but thst they are not

sufficiently gent to warrant his spendine his nua funds for a

trip to the soninican republic at this sime.

MEROLA and a number of others have been discussing she counter

felting of finited States dollars and Cuban pesos for use in

connectior vic Cuban revolutionary netivitios.

It= Subject that la vien di inis alier, which uns &

possible serious violation of United States lau, I sould urce him

to visit the li office in Atianta and lo Elve them the full

story on this satter.

He said he sould do

so on the following

On ij september Subject paoned me at sy hose to say that

he had been is see the FBI pesple in itlanta and that sheg had

referred his to the Secret dervice office there becsuse of the

counterfeltin, aspect.

He said no one seemed particlarly

interested ir. the fun running aspect of the situation.

1.4.3

na, 711/20

«все соле і одіїв..

---

