# 104-10054-10287

## Page 1

1104-10054-102871

SEGRET

NET.

10 Feb 77

Source:

Notes made by A. Goodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1.

coverage. From the time the Mexico Station was opened in

(April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1955, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to Fre

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites

e surveillance

team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Phone taps were placed

handled

ILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines

tapped

by availability of a listening post nearby

(since

th

taps were not made in the main central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, ete) transcribers. Generally

these

agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

which the station at that time felt was good security in that

if they telked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Anderson with the help

of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and TDY ISD

people checking

the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA) • LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Embassy which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Northlest corner. of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally

across a double barrelled

street on the Southeast cor

see jungra, page 1a.

[SEBIET

17085 666 900041045

JFK-056

Copy 30f7

00001.64

SEGRET

(1-3

13

---

## Page 2

14-00000

2-

that block. LIMITED was

the first base

and it

operaied

strictly on an

an erimental basis in the early stages.

I trink the llexi

Station bought

one

storey

this property. (a/Spanish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSLIE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden man" was being released to the

public by the Warren Commission. The photo operators were moved to another apt

nearby. The property was sold (under an operational agreement with LINOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment biding to be built

on this site).: LILYRIC was planned as an alternate phote

tO LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the

de of the street

as LLITED but in the middle of the block Saut

had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Enbass

agents in LIMITED and LILYRIC (both

Mexican fanilies, as far

as

were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apa

LICALIA, the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of four

houses

on the South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the Mexico Station purchased in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Enbassy compound. The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (no at thet time were largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). The three photo sites vere handled by

(rexican citizen of U.S. mother

collected the film

from LIMITED

and LILYRIC three times a week.

his sister's husband,

developed and printed the film into 8xl0 contact print strips. The master plan

WAS FOr LIGALIA SiT, to i processed alde, 75D an Fron 1957 to 19591

resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside CO (Mahoney) became disgusted and took the film out

for

brother-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus

became

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive staff D nonitoring operation

0000165

14

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-3 -

was run out of another one

of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LIUST, 1, ote).

This was ha:dled by Glen WIDDEN (outside ISD officer) ana

Mahoney using HQ TDY

teams for monitoring. This opsration vas

also separate

fron LICALLA.

The two houses in betveen ere rented

to unsuspecting tenants.

co Mobile surveillance was developed by Anderson and later placed

• under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This tean consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars and a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (sTon LIMITED JASE)

when someone of interest left the/Embassy gate

until they made their meetings.

Thes

with them

Cout the LINED

BASE cecause they had LI

This worked f

about the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of

th

surveillance agents got too close to his target and

was arrested by the Mexican transit police and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out

the agent: had identified Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at Nogales

by Bob Shaw) and the inside

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIFTAT project was broken

up into several others.

Frank

The agents were not changed but were given

new crypts. /Estancona ard

replaced Anderson in handling

the

phone taps.

Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAP) and the photo bases through

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a

intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III,

mail

TELCHE

0000166

15

---

## Page 4

14-00000

-4 toner

His case officers

Alfonso Spera,

were later/Fuckett, Rosert Foldmann, and Alan White.

2.

of

Tot that so.

was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

"with which we dealt was a hip pocket sroug

established contact with one of them

rige

(later LIFIRE group) in aboat 1950 or 51. He gave them some

training (a group of about five surveillance types)

the files

were poorly organized and often inaccurate.

allen, however, some useful

information was developed but it annie la depended upon.

was

replaced by

Mahoney, Thomas

hazlitt, and Robert Feldman

äthe splic The Ether)

During 1958, Win Scott met socially some of the

of the

During this period, the U.S.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight communism". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal

made to Win Scott

This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

(LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, ard greedy. His

son (LIENIVOY-2))was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption.

HELEGANT also

manipulated control over the principal agert of LIBIGHT

The

first case

officer was Alfonso Spera inside with

(retired) outside

and John

(TSD treining officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telerhone lines would connect as vell as a transcription room

0000167

16

---

## Page 5

14-00000

staîfed

Initially the station tried to m.et every

demand / made by

Both

and John had language difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the station/so that

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecting their part uf the bargain' in tine

Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady wno found himself in the same pincer movement of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady (L

LIENVOX-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it;

the project was revarped.

and John returned to the U.s

ind were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who was put inside

saig post to maintain

Brady was reassigned to other duti

the equioment./ Scott took over the project as

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet

cer meeting with LIELEGANT.

with

Flick for routine supervision

of the listening post, pickin

ripts and tapes. Goodpasture had no

when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961..

3. My menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, It was a rakeshift arrangerent of volunteers

through most of 1960 and El witt. Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their activities and recruitirg agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4 Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in Mexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Connission. To deternine who vas there and what they were doing I

have gro:ped persons together chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covcring from 1950 to 1969 so that sloather nanes pop up, one cen tell what

period they were in Mexico and

their assignments at the time.

SECRET,

0000168

.17

---

## Page 6

14-00000

8/56-6/69

COS

DCOS

Winston X. Scott (deceased)

7/56-7/58

Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/621

1 (retired)

6/63-9/65

Alan white (retired)

10/65 - 1,969

Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico)

COVERT ACTION

Prior to 19541

Howard Hunt (retired)

(12/545 - 7/55

(Williard Hill (resigned)

12/56 - 9/61

Stannard Short (retired)

Chief

9/61

—3/64

David Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62 -9/64

2/64 - 6/65

James Flannery C/(retired) -

9/64 - 11/66 Herold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967 - Stanley Watson C/(retired)

66

68

68 - 71

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62

Thomas Hazlit

2/60 - 4/62

4163-4/65

Bob Shaw Chier

9/63 - 7/65

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Hackay

(retired) -

8/66 - 6/65 David Phillips Chief (metere

9/65

- 10/68 Joseph Piecolo

10/65 - 12/67

PROHIBITED

SOVIET TARGET

5/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon (retried!

7/59- 8/65

Chief.

3/59 - 8/65

;/64 - 7/66

Willian Bright

/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Fausmann

0/65 - 7/67 Alice Pittinger

165-4/69

Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIBERS

6/56 - 8/58.

Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63

George Misko

6/63 ÷ 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Outside CO

CC00169

18

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SUPPORT ASSETS

phono teps

{1949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

(3/55) - 4/60

Asst

4/56 - 1/62

Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan m

9/64 - 12/67 lichael Farmer

[49-71: Outside CO

David WILSTED (ps)

retired in Mexico

6/59

- 4/64

7/59-6/62

photo

Cubans

Robert Zambernardi

(resigned Mexico)

TSD.

(retired)

photo Soviets

13/547-4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8644

A. Goodpasture

and internal

6/58-6/63

Louis D. Pu

6/63 - 10/61 Thomas Keena

William Bright

DUCTION PROHIBITED

56 = 68

Outside Agent

etired)

Robert.

813)63.

#wald mann

Cabana. Opt repenting

Trial .

phone taps

1959 = 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1950 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960

(outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961

John Grady (retired)

1962 - 1968 A. Godpasture

1961 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) -

- surveillance

Prior 1954

(retired)

3/54 - 4/59 Harry Mahoney

(retired)

4/59 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmann

TSD Outside unit

4/53 - 12/63

6/59-4/54

Glen Widden (retired)

Joseph::. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

0000+70

19

---

## Page 8

14-00000

About nid 1962 (check date) Ittivoy

for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Enbassies.

With this forewarning) LIFEAT

coverage) "as

However,

as I recall

connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and 1 Yugoslav line. The basekouse listening post had

a live

monitor who made short sunnaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a.n. (passed by Flick to Goodcasture

to get to Scott before 9 a.m. Later (when the reel was

conpletely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in the

there was usually a time lag of a day or so.

Thos

me lay, however,

pts which had

Russien or another language besides Spanisheor

post the day after the transcript

typed. These reels were

vent out of the listening

conversations on the reel)was

ther location where they were translated

and typed. In the case

e Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the embers of the Soviet Eubassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried

to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to

to take to Boris.

handled all of the processi:g

of Soviet

transcripts. My job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned that the man calling himself Oswald

was

probably an American. However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were picked up

three times a week but the ones ricked up

were usually

for dates a few days prefiously because

processed the film on a

night time basis.. Photographs were made usually until one roll vas used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators cleared the camera each day whether there was anyankaxaca a full

roll of filn exposed. Instructions were

to cover office hours, photograph each

0200471

20

---

## Page 9

14-00000

- 1-

GEORET

new Soviet and family, all foreigners and foreign licenee plates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious. The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipment (a pulse caera) but it

frequently developed rechanical difficulties. Bob Zambarnerdi and

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna l'ackay screened

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Boris lo

the caller was trying to speak Russian.

compare the photographs with

There were no copies of

es other than Spanish or English because Win

Scott could read only those two languages ard he rersonally screened the

an eat or as REPHIOPUCTN

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

0000172

21

---

## Page 10

14-00000

1C:

3

REPR

DUCTION PROMIBITED

(4) Jor Erb gate

1- LIMITED

2- LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

Phato Baces.

0000173

2.2

---

