# 104-10216-10084

## Page 1

104-10216-10084

VIA: A COTION NEPTI

DISPATCH NO. 11171-A-36Bl

CONFIDENTIAI

LASSIFICATIO!

TO

Chief, WAD

FROM :

Chios or Slotion, Hahana S2?

SUBJECT: COMRA- Liaison

Trol- lemoranda Furaished to the Babaasy

DATE: 13 3236 1057

Reference: HXI-A-3662, 6 June 1957

Attached in suplicate are the following menoranda which were furnished

to the Embassy?

Mano No. 119, 6 June 1957 - Cubans in Costa Rice

Neno No. 150, 7 June 1957 - Conversation with Guillerno ICIT

Meno No. 251, 12 June 1957 - Cuban Goverment Purchase of Vehicles

Paline 2.79: 0106

MeliasaY. lorency

Attach-enta la duplicato

Distributions

3= nashington w/atte

2 - Files w/o atti

"201>

abes

13 June 7957

AR 188, 51-28A

RI COPY

CONfERRETU

19-2-41

trze

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Paro Chapla

6 June 1957

Attache

Curans In Coata Aloa

The Collouine Informallon has lean race. red fra @ Controlled Anorioan

Sourse in San J-se, Coota Ricat

Within the past tuo noels approxinat-ly 45 Culona have clondoulinely

ontered osta tilea dia La"a, travaliar frog elia Donintern lieu 1la

lo Asant to costa lilee.

his se 130 resule of on arteemne lalrea

realIanA LATISTA and Trijillo to rare du'an ex'les fran th

mene inlirichials are nannin to movo soon lo

Noxioo in order to be randy to mra da

Cute 15 and when cATISTA

bo, Ina to losple.

Evaluatlont fol

ceo loçal, Aruy, Naval, Ais attacháa

Distribations

2 = Chapin, Dabasay

1 - Laral and Servie Attachés 12 - Washington 2 - Flies

6 бото 1957

nihy

red'at into a dint denise scions a into "

...notar.

there

SECRET

19-2-81316158

---

## Page 3

11

Yeno H0. 150

7 June 1957

115. Chapla

Attache

in Daredovs

Conversation with Millero B'IT

yo1?

do On 5 Jure 1457 Outllemo FizT, Irger and forarg Anhaonaier to lhe

United States, called at lie Inbasag in cameotion with another natter ard

fumished the follerine Information

do His Agrociation NES Lie NIHITS lo 120s

NATI TA.

It uns coating him aurodinately igh a day and Y'rs.

Th:: "A, tho bed

almays been frendly uiti hia alco, ataloe erat sin prold lice to lie care of

the houplal exerco of the 1oy, but the triti mefusod to nocep: her driero

Contino later, Ira. GATLiTA called lis Hit frog!:: Ter stalin

¡that ale ord the feepleent sould Ilka lo hase hag net an Atarendry-at-I.a.*,

lio foll oo pelled to accent tila sse al thmich the

salary a renta to gery ilttlo

more llan his poralen, wilch ha

princial a iranta e of

di lontlo raanport ich allma him

to travel frecly in conneation

but airlier at this tire, planetn

not ha convincine.

lie has Actualls

MATISTA, barine prord lintater of slate

follmen: Uie tarch dith attrak on

health or prosmim of luchness,

i"a magical te onll er Che legalent

arl has int:es 91594999479 to the

I Dire dinner and the auth of lay dir

ocnaidare •ATISTA hie friend alnse

very kind to hl.g, hut he disagrea

adth his prlitloally and mata to diancelate hi self fon leTITi.

bo Soneral Soliltaals

RIIT has not been mared in pollelca for arantin, hit in 8:111 nintalm

hin elcae seccineton with trau.

in foole tiat labe w1ll have ohnos if PITISTA

dalla co if ho slara in until :

me elrotions. In his orinier, l age ano Inilentlers

• "that a dects!on 15 lanent within the millary as te mariber they sill alles steh

DATIJIA of 1cslat that he atep dorn.

The rontrent in the Cuhan allltary aral nat

the entire TItTi: IllA Lagily la trondous end this attitude li lay rillcary mon

undeltally realena parisia's ellltury surprti.

iT&TA hingelf hen so hach sarard

1or Ceneral TA?!!:Illa and ofton touses him and soars li? to drath about thinra ba

hes or has not dene; but TAIF!illial haa been, and 1111 continie to he, completoly

Joyal.

BIlT clairs that 18 mea he mho introdood Andrin 4I.TO del Peralos to

BATISTA and recomended hin Initially for a port ln the Preatiency.

alone friendo, althcurh he has not sem DelIa since the latter naber him

Inoredibly 1f he really ballered that Herbort be iNTli's harl boon In the Stere

Maontre nountains.

Past a ca..

19-2-4-1360

---

## Page 4

CLNHDENTIAL

50 0 50. 170, Paro?

7 dune 1057

Ponteg and has regresard to la his eenerm about the pencent camerois trond

Of thA PRILTA Co-orrrrito le has arcund eith hirels wheer ho sials do to

the Frestiii: hi self to ergress hia concern, although he le inclined to belleve

that 1t rould do no coote

piLl serla Erai michin a shore tino ba dill de compellad, sa bie

patriotio duty, to rentar the political acene.

do M1101207:29

alla vas a despinie do the "corlen innistory Conference In Porota 9n

A711 1'41 and ma resperall la for barin' rotten a sale ecoluct for Micel ClID

and soreral olor cums to leare colcrita.

hara been restr. lole for tir

Feel seen bored be ta here alied

fidely

went kneen to

iRO was la Perote

la connection mith a sistento

C6n,5033.

An Hia cynten, there la no polames to Intlesto ChiTTO 10 a Coruntat,

and he kneou the carma du not ectimly partlelanie in the death or cui.:.

Fellcoing Bie La:toss saine-inition, dirl CASIN d°d dcin in the terolitionary

deed not knes sheliar he tillad tre or ats priesta, but ho. noild not bave cotten

a sare conduct ser his hal he men shat he dubsenuntly found out.

Fidel Carito remagento the idenle of the aruth of Cuba ly yeera end

unior), and li saili so a entratronho lor hia to energe as a leadero

I. ire:ld ba

better sor all erniered lf he la Milal, eveu fioura in mioh event he sould do

don in history as mosher curtis 11):e "rilldo

do Lespalt on ero Prestential Palaces, 12 "ors 32578

ros his olIce, "It sltnraced the miire asa

The rainelpel

etlon v: a cres ln 15 sirates, tus polloo and 111 tary outalde the "alace for

Longed the actles fer sore than e loss by shoosin. at 3ollas lates and other

buildinga fos she clery co barter participated in the deferee of the Palace.

Diatribution:

1 = Embassy

apa bashington

2 - 71100

0f local Interost. No objection to

dissendnation.

CONFIDLNTIAL

+9-5-448316152

---

## Page 5

':.

SECRET

Homo To, 151

22 June 2258

Kro Chapla

Attache

Cuban Covern ent lurchuse of ishielea

tre follovinr Infor-tion hee bean roceived face a Cortrolled

Anurlena gource ln ¿aDaria, "learE: ual

In tachington a 10 Tro Triunit Arlenenior to tilenrorus

that the l'eirasuo t serient has ado a pure'see frie tle

legrall loverntent der allo, ry curle tho seas of di Juno

to itcarara on lin, raunic sino.

Inclived in tho j-Tchose

i-chine fung and one s:ll carash sia holdins fivo ene

Cu. an Coveriont hus in turn loucht from the l'ormian

Tho

torerora 2ô of tieso schloles and la to send a toat to

Corinto to late delivarto

des 2er81, Army, intal, dis illiciãs

+0147659797

Distribution:

1? - Washington

1 - Addressee

1 = Legal and Serrica Attachóa

2 = Files

SOURCE:

2hl

22 June 2957

SECRET

+8-2-4-1316158

---

