# 104-10400-10199

## Page 1

1104-10400-10199

DB BEDSO 46585

3 January 196%

MAKRADEN FOR: ChiOR, 18/2

Der. Charles P. BItele:

SOB TECT :

Irahntenl Analysis of Letter sad invelope

8 CARE $ 35

REFERENCE::

4a/2 Mano dated 13 December 1963

nationality of the tester.

2. Du fOlLONINE COnClUsIONs VeTE dram conserainE the Lotter

and envelope:

as base by two

on the German.

"Strandvagan" (whore the dots snould have been placed over the

moond "a"). Ila might be either a aimple overuight or an attempt

to conceal the molter's lentllarty wit the correct spelling.

wich in alent universally usee is Eraden.

Ines textired stationery sems to be rather connon 1a Sueden.

Tre tus mallor places of blank paper matca tie letter paper vitt

respect to midts, thlonens, calar, testurs and lovictizust, una

were probably out frun another enset of tae sine type.

the envelope

matchas specians of Bodian anvaionue takes Iron 28/5-Postel.

Intalligence files.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DE Meno 10505 • Peg= 2

• The lotter vas posted frus the Stockholm Bas port office

hies 18 located In the castral rallyay terainal la Stockbole

All mall deposited 1a street intl boss 1a thie a ma on 1a the post

office wald be provesand through thie station.

posta sta do a dear rot or Suedes 2000201 seat and tire

A partile ITTepsierIty lo the tine lus baturen the loternel

date of the letter, the date of the posteri uni the date of racelet

1n the Azertema Laubosey-

The total tin Dos the Internal date of

the letter to the tine of receipt 1a elgit days, toe tine betuna

the date of rostlag ant the date of recedit 18 more than three days.

mis transit the of sore then tare dayo for latra elty mil appesas

Irregular then campered vith the average transit shes al only tro

three daya far errival betten Bbockhole and the Inited Btrtes.

I. The test of the letter mats sone commente because & mabes

which men to indiente a dedish stiber.

either Balith spalling of modification: "reserv",

"VI, USA" (elthout darlalte

"Ryo" LE a Japanasa spelling. In

the mr arn 1e 10 not on wether the Chinese or lesters fem

la either cass,

e me ly which s read Caloese vould Identify hintele.

ming & brodieseyboad tyraniter and bodian stationary.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

EB Mens 66505 - Ime 3

6 For Auber Intentio concernine the typewriter al e

alys, unt the bodich tyle of longing me,

contact ir. Ja

Beck on 12009, For further Infomatios on the spelling of the

tente siter", yo my contact ir. Gerald torth on 1a60s.

los tartar interate reming the postl mpete of thie enme

preme coitart ir. Robert l. Banks on 12903-

To Tse orlEll letter and envelope are bane ratured berenlta.

Attackarat: (1)

An statel

But Extion:

. • FED/GARB/ABR

- ISD/DB/3

1 - F3 Files

1 - FI chrono

1 - Case 4361

TSD/DB/5-PI/RKBanke/x2303/ery

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1998 13 DEC 1963

MENORANDUM FOR: TSD/DB/5

ATTENTION: MI. Tom Campbell

SUBJECT: Techrdcal Analysis of Letter and Envelope

I. Attached 15 & letter mailed to the American Froassy ir

stockholm purportedly from an officer in the Chinese Court si

Emoassy In Stockholm.

Also included is the envelope ano a la

olded sheet of paper which presumaoly was used to entoic t

etter vithin the envelope. Please periora a technical ara-ysi

l these attachmente to determine whatever can be deterrive

ink used.

normally used by that Embassy-

- Because of the sensational nature of the contents o

he letter and the necessity for our checking out such allega

tions as quickly and thoroughly as possible, it is requested

that this technical analysis be undertaken on a priority basis

and that the undersigned by notified by phone as soon as exy

conclusions are reached.

3. Please acknowledge the receipt of the attached iette

nd ensure that its whereabouts, whea in your custody, ís :

matter of record.

kept as Intact as posalble while undergoing technical anelysis.

22222

Charles. P. Kiteley

HE /2

x7659

436

SEGRET

Esclass: llcatice

---

## Page 5

13-00000

RIES IS VERY INFORIANI AÃD EDI A DAD UORE!

251:1-63.

The President of the United States of imerica, Jonn I ernedy was

assassinated by lee H Oswald by direct order of the government of

the Peoples Republic of China. Lee HI Oswald executed the act alone

but there was helpers and reseiv. "How all is over" was password

to his customers. Oswald was a lully convinced Communist but he

must assassinate Kennedy. We etablised contact with Oswald already

when be was in Sowiet but then to try to get him as a spy for China-

Later he was spy for us. When lee I Oswald had returned to USA we

contacteú ala aner and Iresheued up als minù you have bees a spy

for us" and told him what could happen to him il FBI got informed.

Now we had him. He got his last information in sexico. /It was not

good to assassinate Kennedy in Lexico/ "Fair Play for Cuba" was

started only

to confuse and throw the blame on Castro for the as

ssassinated. Our government thought that JSA should attaci Cuba

when kennedy was murded as the orginaztion was behind the assassin

ation. Then Cuba was attacked by USA Sowiet must help Castro defend

himself. It that was so it would burden Sowiet that Oswald had visi-

ted. We should be allieted with Sowiet then we would ask them for a

bombs and they should not be able to refuse us. We and Sowiet should

win this war and whole the world should be Commistic. Then we should

assassinate Krustjev and other Sowiet leaders and we would be leader

of the NEY. YORD. When this letter will reach you they have maked

away withlue and all that knowed the planes. This letter is outsaugeled

from our Embassy in Stockholm where the limbassy 18 apkinese spy-shool.

My name is Ryo Liang Yüan. Officer in the department. for State-secret.

Is you do not bellto this letter espicia our hate to usa.

Sir,

---

## Page 6

13-00000

tif ine

ОПООООООТА

MATIA

4Н01 11)

2711.53

11-12

1411i:

10 2911.63

ir-ld

E00 077.6

CHITCD SEMES DE AacAiCA

Amerioan Embassy

Strandvagen 101

STOCKHOLN NO

MSHl. COOM

S1UCKIOLM

---

## Page 7

13-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAMI

RELEASE IN FULL 1998

REQUEST FOR TSD/DB SUPPORT

DE CASE NO

NAME OF REQUESTOR MiTERNATE

Ster=zt

REQUEST RECEIVED BY Mame

Dari Zorani:

TYPE OF SUPPORT:

AITH E

ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION

REFERRED FOR ACTION TO

SECTION:S:

PROJECT OFFICER S

2J=

CA OTHER E

socianoasi

TEXTENSION

DATE CH REDUES

DUE DIA TE

i Icci:

DATE RECEIVED

PROJECT NAME

Ci. CRYPTO

1=E.02

ete

:: Incenber tate and acired

resistiaton settion; registration pleced in a iore-maris maron latorco sezi

that be muso jesie the country cy midnigni on de procsedino sete en on the ceo

indicatea:

2.

•Ret i= OVIR:

Eot zany OVIn's are there in Moscor:

"tere are they located:

Are eitiner of the coloring Oili addosses:

Caleva Ulitsa: " Kolpechmy peretici is

=. Ines she following have any sigrificance:

"Tatf-D.A. TIDEDA"

Ine CaIE involies an Anericar tourist vo visitti 1050oi an OCasoce 10910

passport in not mesently avaslesie.

Ine asore gunationi

Eti cased on a note roo

RECORD OF ACTION

kept by the tourist. He was issued a soviet visa in a foreigu country (anspecified)

valid for six (6) days after crossing the Soviet border.

The Noscou OVIR registration

indicated that be could stay in the country until the 22nd (do 22-0g0), presumabla

or october tg. He bad his visa extended, but possibly erroneously, the 2and vas

once again entered as the "do" date.

He was subsequently informed that be would have

to leare the coratry by midnight al the 2lst. (Soneho: he managed to stay on. Ic

details were protided).

nn arrival in Moscow (de was alone) be was net iy an intourist guide tho too

aim to z botel.. Information concerning e hotel registration ves not ava:lable.

Requestor did not know il the visa was a tourist visa (i.e, marzed tourist).

CONCUA WITE ILE ABOVE

RECORDEO VERSÁL REQUEST:

signature

dete:

1516 4

D-108 Jan '65:

SECKT

incidos tou meri

tompiacen; and decressitarien

---

