# 104-10125-10169

## Page 1

104-10125-10169

UNITED SATIS DERAINLOT OF JUSTICE

In Jirpico l'lease dejer so

lie dir.

indis

Vie

167846

vacuingier,

January 21,

1008

NEB

8125

P02.F9:212. 173

According to the sccuits ox iho Vise Cirace, V:

she lass love igonog is the official Sorei curch

news caccing organiction tich headquasicis in lorear

of covici Socialisi Hopublies (USSR), and branches thougl

the vorld.

REVIEWED

The lonen sirike tos leace (rod is a publicly

Idcnt1fi0d Incisisi sagantariion.

On Janars 22, 190ù, a contidenifal sonec: Wi

sunnished colinie infoincion

in the face. Icarued thai

Diolilgri,

co that daid, vas in contact with lose Lagant lil

Wap rogiding hei porsonal ancosanche of the Uneted

Doparimont of justice docision to prosecuio tr. Conjanán

and foul napociales iôs conspircy lu violaio solcoiiro i.

1a1S.

Soco locinod chei Wilson iold holikyan diet apoc!

Giving his unqualified support do the draft acuisions am

purpose is to comonstrio his bolioi in the comago and 1o

conviccion of those young nen who cluse to kill their bru

in Vietnan.

RELEASE

RELEASE

DENIAL

LEASE I PART NARR

8

IN FULL

FBI/JFK

Win rogard do the Govormont: aricapied besto

Spock and his associades,

rouice learned lilson is or i!

TASK

opinion

chne won & man lilo

Spock takes a stand such is i.

inling,

the iciontion of the public in dcflocico to ilo lc!

aspect: of

he aciion, id this i not the purpose ia dis

cocacion

suppor, dos dott rosiotos.

Source Journad

Alson

boltores it is impriani do tai Uniced Biaida Jai:

cho seal obiccrive is to mmilest ond noral and honeni

convictions.

lilcon, according to sudice, told liclilgan li

NO MOREIGN DISSEMINATION

20898

0301 230000

---

## Page 2

1s j

a contacton and inconstriartion of cho argaocato teac

Cho:207.

codion fu the booty Coon end scher countrios, and cit

this more inio.ned pablic upinion is Lood.

Abu ba alco decinod that holigan, do january to

1203, coniacion anoinor official of lur regarding the piere

prosecution of spoci, into person icined the vas in Vicim

botil

"illogal and inmoral."

0.1:

Jenuazy 20, 1068, Cho Gans cowoe advised tle:

had learnss chat.

201

cho forcining criad of vi. buck, tes in concoci vici

30951-14

Inned, latioond Dicetor of "186.02," concoring Bodi

intoresi

in courig titornacion cogarcang that orcateres

activities and on Lauter's porsonal feollugs abouc the

¿nia

compriza to origin Scepted or a petition the orGanisat:

is oathoring to prolast apocio i'onocution, Lautch Baid ii

he could not sive him cho omei liques at this point as ii

thee in the sun tennoises area appromiely mine lined

minos voie decreed in ino caji.

Source donined chat taut

told Molikyan chat'betto, estimatos of the nuboi ci sagti

cocarod

to dato would bo trailable at the latzonal Oriice

"REGIST"' in Canbridgo, Hescadhusotts,

colophons bunber

017-401-0515.

Molikyer indichiod that ho vould bot in evic

vith this attico lot later infonation.

Wich rogand to activition of "ostor," lauick:

ing to soco, adviced holikyan that chey had alacedy riots

sovoral rallios around the countay in such citico du low lu

Donoir, Chicago, Dad Monoideo, Los Angeles did lashingio

there witt be a rally in Docion oil

January 20, e demonstracion at the boston Commons on ile 45

the day

as told nan rally on the cane evaning in lov York.

pock and his corderoadies appons for their Feerd

to cocco, li. Spock is boing iu be at a rallg in Chicoso e

Saturday, cne 27th.

Source Joarnou chai "Lorit" in an che maurass ei

sotting up a resistance defense lund. This will to uscd in

SECRUI

- 2.

---

## Page 3

""RAGIST"

Bailord dar

date boats.

vadous Con

to occur on excuse abbas od the day that yoch tid cuc

ochors no bougie to trial.

Walt todd

from place to place, with Jung loing

source loarned latter dotined a

ricacin out

nocivity as cindents dad professous, on die day of ino rien

iral, appearing, aù local colociive

Service induetion. contars

or de a chemical plane liko the Dow Chenical Company to dcroi

straie apacist the var.

in lace lay or carly june, "olatt" plaus is castler

vhai cho orgnalancion ¿cano "yicined Councon Colacionis

at the timo

of the regulas conchcenonts aud taguccino iri

collogos in tho Untied Sisted. Muscad of baring the cadiy

commonsenzai encacisos, yarous notons to stage in anitaig

rich will coy in

having sedanted iron salien,

stuconts vill now do moro dircetly involvod in the sinoble

against che ta.

Cornco leninod tawlantch bartonatly ascebocd in:

totnooning proes trial as a loliciend action to silence ial

incinidate encine poopic.

Le thinks, aceciding to audrea

chat resisinnco

to the vas to becomings politically cooice

that opposicion to the ver has beca aprcoding co toie tid noic

poople,

and thei the opposicion is boconing here eud forc

militoat. lie chinko chae too Johnson contriotaton to tring

co buca: the opinit of the quii voy movenche ir the Uniied

Stetes, but thot the papocercion of fock and the ethods las

the offoet of colidiaying the ancick norcheni.

Bounce advisee

Lautch has indieated thai "anorsy" has rceoivod tronoldous

sapport win people calling long distance, vanting to luow how

they can holy oi if thoy can sond money.

Joined lommod that Melilyan leit his colophose

numbo. ni. Lancon's oftice and cold luntor that ho vote ba

inimentod to eng ocher accivities wiich me tracheoning otise

ho civos wido goverage to all suon moreuched.

and siacs hid

cinde those thaugs.

Hotilyan intontee chai, in cano ko is cui

and autor calle and hoo smothlar co daccato, he cai just

dietrie to any of the taco correspondents.

SECRET

" 3m

---

## Page 4

SEURE I'

"10S (61"

dfai12t2 44e 2206a

taoto "e tbe "racnihgit tost

zoposes ende loceu botarertrich bonjent Brsch,

eiles: Unireniias

Caepiain ipilana Stocas Coraios dir

tnevand Gacdutis

findcat

licenao1 lerbe., becenolt Gosdnen, na aathor dsci diev toal caict

and mucus hasaih, Vasmzngion, D. C, WilJ. ilt dace exiangincui

in Unicod Siaces Distriet Court,

roston, lacsachuogzts;

January 29, 1953, on chaiges of Consparacy co Vrolace Victe

Laws.

Ii is lofed thai diving a domonstration in iscnt oi

the Uittod Jintos Doparimoni of justice builcing, Dil and

Pcnnoylvaaza Avemo, il. We, On Jauuaxy 12,

ioalicts woie

rend o gp en ae lo ca oêa nhuts"

The icaêloi inticated concalbuctons to "aesaot" should ba

dircocod co 3 thomas Circlo, Vacnington.

lho lodflct aloa

coniainod

follomtag, pugporeipo

io ba a statchont aigucd

by those purzons liptod ay dis conclduion:

uwo dtoau tontde the nen wio huive Loen

LnORUCON 10X SUppORC Of CATC POSISCcICEE

if they

?G гJU01COU

mapriconod ba too hist ta sonieneod.

ii tlicy

vo vill tire thotr places aid vill

contluus do uso viai noano vo can lo bring ihio

io an ond. ho will nor sieud saloncly by as

one covoriaont conduers a crindual vo.

contaio do offer supporr: do ve heve boey auiig,

to choos

who refusa io serve in Vaetaa,

io tlcte

indiotod non, nnd to all othors tho reauoe to bc

passive nccomplicas in ww crines.

Tho tat is

illesltimate and our notions are logttinaie.

"Signodl,

"Dey.cth.

Lẩmus m

Hartiy Incner King, dig i

snoche mesunaa

AêCe Brown)

c ou t xu

lic.

( HOWArC

C1e:1l Coodnan

(Hoan Choidy>

t.ontj:

SNCKKI

4%

sane

10a: 024

---

