# 104-10097-10330

## Page 1

104-10097-10330

s93,/00 nu fale!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

GOUTING

-14;

• "DIRECTOR

OM • MEXICO CITY

STION, C/SAS 3 (SAS COPY SLOTTED AT 2030, i9 NOY 63 BP)

70 1 D08, VR

ADDED: ¿NAH, VR

¡FORE T 192347Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 6976

RYBAT TYPIC YOGIT AMWORLD

is 164143

REE A DIR 82107

B MEXI 6913 (1N 61943)

• DIR 83381

10

1. FOLLOWING IS REQUESTED LEGEND:

SUBJECT BORN

1914

FATHER WAS

ATTENDED

CHIGH SONCOLI• NO OTHER CCCUPATICN SSFORE MILITARY.

I' JANUARY 1832. AT AGE 18, ENTERED ARMY AS CADET MILITARY COLLEGE.

GRADUATED SECOND LI, INFANTRY, I JAN

ENTERED MILITARY SCHOOL

OF AVIATION AS STUDENT OFFICER I JAN

GRADUATED FIRST LT PILOT

THAT YEAR BEGAN COMPLETE FLYINS COURSE RANDOLPH AND KELLY,

FOLLOWED BY BRIEF COURSES AT BARNSDALE AND PARCH VIELOS,

SPECIALIZING IN PURSUIT AVIATION, ESPECIALLY PORTO

¿AS PROMOTED "SECOND" CAPTAIN 1 JAN 1943 AND ASSIGNED PELOT ATTACHED

HOS MEXICAN AIR FORCE MEXI CITY. MENCER ESTICAN EXPEDITICIARY FORCE

62815I SQUADROND IN PHILIPPINES DURING 1943. FLEN ACUTINE

PATHOLS. FIRST INTEREST IN

GREW CUT OF FRIEDSNIS HITH

AYERICAN INTEL OFFICER, RETURNED MEXI LATE IDAS. SEAGED AS PILOT

137-33

un.

SECRET

EEROCUSTION DY CIA THAN THE SIDS CRiCA IS PEE

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

$/20

---

## Page 2

CIAISIFIED MESSAGE.

20. iT SQUADRON MEXI CITY LATIL MAY 1846.

JUms

Pao lid

__' 1846 REQUELT' ON PEMEX TO BOT CUSUZET GIVEN "LEGUE

@ ABSENCE* TO WORX AS PILOT. DURING THIS FINION LIONI PRICELY

WITH MELCHOR CARDINAS, STALE NAMES CHIEF CY LISTIATITS MUST FRI

AS RESULT SECAME INTERESTED AND PART -TIFE ATITZ IN INSTICINE

WORY. PENEX JOB ENDED LATE CCTOBER 1991. DUE TO POLITICAL GATE

OF HIS LEAVE OF ABSENCE AND GOOD RECORD AT FEMIN, VAS CHEON DO

IT RED SQUADRON CAFICERS CCUROS AT AJA UNIVERSITY, RETALI GETA

LAV THRU APR 1952. SHES ATTENTIONS THIS IS COUNTE WHICH B G

CHESX OUT AND CHOOSE HASE FOR SUBVECT SEATLE CHE CE FIL GEARCATOS.

FROJ JAY CUE 19SS THRU LAM 1 1005 WILD CULL GIT UNU ETI CONT

N9S AIR FORCE.

29

3 QUIT AIR FORCE RAY 1835 TO ACCEPT IS EITH

EXCELLENT INVESTIGATIVE RECORD. (PETAINDER CE THIS PERIOD TO CE

FILLED IN

By Has).

". LEFT

1SS2 TO RETURY TO MEXICO BECAUSE OF NIFE'S

IV:ISTENCE AND HIGH COST OF LIVINE VENEZUELA FOR AFFSOATRANELY

NE YEAR WAS PERSONAL PILOT FOR WEALTHY INDUSTRIALIST. LATE SO

. comaning

SOUGHT OUT OLD FRIENDS AND INSTRUCIORS USAF LOAXING FOR HON.

JIS OF ¡MEN ITHAT SUUTi PACITIE INTEL OFFICERTS TOLD WEN OF SERITI

OPPORTUNITY, SINCE SALARY LAS $699. PER ROHTN WITH PROMISE OU

:

EXCITEMENT NE ACCEPTED. WIFE AND :HILDREN SEMAIN MEXI CITY.

" FOLLOWING COMENTS CARED TO CERTAIN LECIXOFT USINSS

SO: WOUND NOT BE INTERESTED

Di: SURGECT EXCEPT THAT ALL SEXI FILETS

ARE iN RESERVE WHICH IS NOT TAXEN SERIOUSLY AS THEY ARS OCEAN

13233

=

---

## Page 3

CLASIFIED MESSAGE

NO VIXS PACE 3

CALLED BACK TO ACTIVE

• DUTY.

12

GOM DOES NOT INVESTIGATE OUT OF

MEXICO ACTIVITIES.

ON TDY MEXI WILL BE PROVIDEO Bi..

STATION WITH DUMMY

PHOTO SHOWING HIM IN MEXI AIR FORCE LIFORN.

SUBJECT MARRIED AT AGE 260.

3. CORCERNED REE A. ASCONMODATION ADDRESS WHICH

AMBIDDY-! IS:

D.F.

SEGRET

--

03-

E/S CORENTI *REGLESTE

c0: 4050.

'OM

ITiC.

CAN GIVE

2 Count 5.

198

---

