# 104-10408-10168

## Page 1

104-10408-10168

LTENFO 1561389

31510357 ISP)

301

IUHCAL

^C1101%

SECHET

ANU CHEUR 16352

CILA8

STAFF

INFO: FILE, VE. C/EUFED, DOPD-D. C/OG/D'S.

78

1561389

PAGE

001

TOR:

1416332

NDV 78

I: 1581321

21941

SECRET 141608Z LOV

78 STAFF

CITE

41941

@ TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

CHEA

RYBAT AKULE KDAFGHAN

REFS: A• DIRECTOR 323590

B- DIRECTOR 324426

1- STATION OFFICER SAI KDAFGHAN/1 (K/1) 14 NOVEMBER

TO ADVISE HIM OF HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HOSA) DESIRE INTERVIES HIN. KAI DOES NOT CAIT TO TALK TO

MOSA. HE BECAME VISIÖLY UPSFT AT PROSPECT. HE ASKED

-- REPERTEDLY THAT HE PLEASE

TRY TO UIOEPSTANO HIS POSITION.

HE HAS CONTINUED TO RECEIVE HARASSING AND SOMETINES TUREATEN

ING TELEPHONE CALLS SINCE LAST SUNDER'S EXFOSUPES (LAST CALL

HAS TiD PEEKS

AGOD AND FERNS FOR HIS PERSOLAL SIFETY IF THEKE

IS MOKE PUBLICITY. HE SAID HE HAD TRIED TO START A NEN LIFE

IT SPAIM (NE IS NOR A SPANISH CITIZER - SIECE MARCH 1977),

AND THAT HE CARE CLOSE TO BEING FIRED FROS HIS JOR LAST

SUMMER BECAUSE UF THE EXPOSURES; HE FEARS THAT MORE PUBLICITY

COULD NOT BE AVOIDED IF ME MERE TO TALK TO HESA, AND THAT

THIS COULD RESULT IR HIS LOSING HIS LIVELIMOOD AND FORCING

HI TO LEAVE SPAIN, SMICH HE DUES NOT MANT TU DO. HE ALSO

STRESSED THAT HE WAS NEVER ADMITTED BEING INVOLVED EITH

HE AND THAT IT IS THE CUBANS' BOPD AGAINST HIS AMOUT

THAT ACTIVITY. HE SAID IF ME KERE TO ACCEPT AL HESA INTER-

VIET HE MOULD

OOPERATE KITH ARSENS

IN EFFECT BE ACKP:O:LEDGING THAT ME DID INDEE

AND. HE FEARS

THIS WOULD HAVE AN

ADVEHSE EFFECT ON HIS

PRIVATE AND PROFESSIURAL LIFE. HE

DESERVEO THAT HE DOUBTEN THERE IS

ANYTHING HE CUULD ADD TO

RiHAT MCSA MUST ALREADY

KNOH, AS HE ASSUHED

HESA MUST HAVE

ACCESS TO

RECORDS.

SECRET

G

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

STAFF

78

1561389

TOR:

PAGE

002

1416337 NOV

78

IN 1561989

741941

2. K/1 IS EQUALLY AS FELUCTANT TO TALK TO MESA OUTSIDE

THE U.S.

AS IN THE U.S. ME OVIOUSLY FEARS FOR MIS PERSONAL

SECURITY AND HIS CAKEER WITH BERLITZ. HE SAID HE HAD PLANNED

TU VISIT THE U'.S• OVER CHRISTMAS TO SEE HIS BROTHER. BUT

HE HAD EVEN

DECIDED AGLIAST THAT FOR FELL

WOULD BE

CONSTRUED AS HIS HAVING SOME OFFICIAL US. CONNECTION.

3. FILE: 201-0288248. E2 INPDET

---

