# 104-10128-10008

## Page 1

104-10128-10008

31 Octoines 1960

HEMORANDUM FOR: Chiof, Security Research Stall

FROM

SUBJECT

: D4. Do Stevens

: American Delacrors

Reforence i9 made lo a veral rogueal to you from te DC/OS for iD-

formation rejarding any American citisens ho have delecied to the USSR,

Red China, or Olher Saiollite countries duriny the past sighteen months

other than Bernon F. MITCHELL. and Williar H. MARTiN, and five otbor

defectors rezarding whom MI. OTEIKA of the Stato Deputiman: Security

Vifice already has information lie. Robert koward WEBSTER, LE-1B854;

Le: HarVOY GINALD, MS-11109; LiberO HICCIAKDELLI, MS-8295; Yad-

intr SLOBODA, M5-10565; and Joseph DUTKANICZ, BiS-10724).

• ocurley filos roflect thai the subjocto of the attached mamoranda are

aúditional American, citizens who hars defected to the soviets or chair

satetlicos during the past eighteen montha.

saveral of the above roferred to deloctora have been of interes: to ClA:

¡¡OTerI LEO NORTHRUP, 48923, w9s a giail employed of this agancy

from say 1951 1o May 1955.

A more detailed oummary than that includad

in the nitached group has boon prepared on him.

Robert ¿dward WEBSTER, EE-18852, and Nicholas PETRULLI, YE-

19439, mere subjector 00/C roqueats on 29 May 1959 and 15 June 193%,

rospecilvaly, with a view to leir being debrieled upon their retarns from

vialto to Rusala. Nelther was Interviewed by ClA, eithar baíors or sitar

thoir viette.

With selerence to Nicholas PETRULll, it la noied that his sossia.

Michael Tomas SCHIRALLI, SSD 84258, la a former CLA COVarI 350=.

ployos, who was abnigned toL

HOPETUL, and also took pari in PBSUCCESS. Ao of Jaly 1934 ha mes ta

de dabrielod as ho chose lo return lo privato employment, SCHIRALLI

adrieed during an LAD interrior in Bisy 1953

SCHIALLI Ta born and raiged on Long laland; and sabaegueatly vas

employed in various places on Long lalaod. From Fobraary so April 1950,

ho sao employed by a TY firm in Valley Strears, Long loland;

la: she dime oi his intor-

rioT. PETRULLI was employed ao a sheel motal vorier in tallay Siresro,

---

## Page 2

--.

Es tão lso he loft le 1. S. lor Asanta 1a 1999 Bud lia fine broctora liva as bone

1a land.

men: (pelos so llo defection lo lo sovior Union, Ma inot Germany, en 1 Asgust

1960) Po the 9181h Allitary Ininäligence Droup in Franklurt, Gormany, (EGIS Comter).

Mera ho hod cenact viti at lossi one representadre of ClA and una in & posietes lo

taro lemmod the soonlicios ol CLA pornonnal al lhe ECLE Cansar.

WILDE A. MORGAN IRS JOCO Ol INeTORI lO Security 1a that on 27 March 1989,

C1/ Où regueriod a chech on hit., In connecilos olth/bio contemplatod noo by the

§Cohan Door/WH Tor parposen el centecs and dobrialinzo Moveror.

AH, cancelled

res requent so of s May 1959.

Edserd NIXON on i Sapiember 1960, apposched a ClA agent la Freddy's Bar in

Damazens nod engaged him in comernatior, lollowing which our agon leand limoeli

under pervasilmaco. Tho surreillance continued lor ino daya, dier thiEh per dadas

mo apprenched in froddy'o Dar by an unins- C-? elfleer whe soled kim aben:

NIXON; and thereafter the curveillance censed. (The owner of Froday'e Dor had

TOPOLIDE MIXUN Is O-?, no he salE he mee raining hía bosineea.)

wallo dolaerora lo Case and tho VAS may nol technically so dolectors to soviol

Satellis countries. ll moors a close tiny, and the names of such known defosters

to the poor elpatess munthe bavo boon is el adod lu thie mamorandum.

M. D. Stevent

• 2.

---

