# 104-10164-10088

## Page 1

104-10164-10088

3 lay 19693

CONTACT REPORI

HUARITY - Jeneral

02

WUBRINY/1 called on the sterile line from Washlngton

at 1-30 hours to diucusa the

anbject covered below.

Ilya SecaRs, LyarINY/l Bald that ho had juat heard

from the rohawk people who will be In i. York the week of

20 May and has stated that they are now prepared to go ahead

Invasting some $30,000 of their own money in a tire

aldo come in with sone money

and that WUSALINi can also, lf this la dealred or needed.

3O FURRINVES WRINE/l sald that

Him La detal on the articult ad eh apparently have surfe

OLup regarding WUasINY/s susplelsong and said that he plana

tO haVe RICKREY devote hinself to chis gonest. WUBRINY! aldO

Cha: L& chia le as serlous as MI.

It may be necessasy to leolate hla elsewhere in the visRIvY

Interesto, such as the partnership, and taper him off for

germination at the end of his 6ix manths. WUBRINY/l suggested 02

that le might bu useful to send him to creece in conjunation

with the Mowhark tire rucap plant.

• Martin an - ances

HUBRITY/l sald chat all arrango

ente are now unde

and this le

ready to go forward and chae

KUBARK

whould decide Ilght say the contribution se wishad l

be nado by RECARiTo

I told WUpRINY/: we would be back on this 0?

*im and travel

expensele

pro this priority accention than ba

loses I truer Mto Allen will

returns,

ani oncountered

Сала

MARIZE!

SwAR INY/s suld that he

ne. fin Meson. Alrport in Washlagto

» 1922 houre juss at the timo ho was reporting in to me at my

-OChom. WorINs?1 sald chit 1o CHARLis uno nacelly dresoed in a

and unle that he was an hla way to chlongo but

ned not and why

Mo CHARLES was accompanded by GeoIse duPOneN

thas they would "brang down Papa Doo."

No farther decalls vero

piran and chia nao apparently a personal optaton sacher Shan

something Dised on laes or knoledge.

Last

Distributdon,

0877 = BUARINY Ope

" IQ subjeer, lochreno

SIONAL, CO TRASK BIONEL ALL

chief

DO/CONO

02

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

19/BR

---

