# 104-10226-10117

## Page 1

104-10226-10117

MATERIAL NEVEEEED AT CIA DO ONANT 19

MOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSHOGGGATIONG STAFE HEADERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBEK/VOLUNE:-

100-5-1

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

26.

42 -

DEE. 63

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRS AGELICY FiNTERLAL

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

Pre-dites

HISSA requert

---

## Page 3

UNCLASSIFIED.

SUBJECT: (Optonal)

FROM:

00/03/C

TO: (Offer designation, room Aumber, and

burkaling)

1.

2. Dö/3A7

SR/ CD/L

$.

INTERMAL

USE SULT

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INTANSION

3441

DATE

30 July 2963

DATE

SPICER

VIAL

RECRITO

30

PORWARDED

OMMANTS (Numbe

5 mom,

SECRET

?- This Information was sent to

CI Stall recently ind has

probably teen fernarded to pol

Por penli.

Thourh vou miret

be able to us. thin extra coug.

CHANGED FRO: RID/FL

%.

REE/G/CE =

10.

10.

12.

sR/cI/A

- 198

in 6.5 note in memo...

263 2

(RJ

Sty: Looks like RIS was

on thim frist, but the

RiT/lileo

4610 ENOU J: SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Lein s00ii

INTERNAL'

ra

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SUMIT SENSITIVE

:*/6057

§ July dET

Chief,

6x 18058/1

& ° 48 lan

Cales, Contact Divleton, 00

Astraited All Fanatration as ball sleptios Laboratortos - lll-10í22

Car I

Fald Ones emering apparnt His Interat

Bell Telephone

then sould to geared to the FIl Immediately.

te would a

poolate bains nariend the date this tarantion lo lunanted

For your intention, pentaten to bosetl

nor to lie trip to the wai rey romated i ou

mar, end merles Ch/00 contacte ulth him,. FI roamended he

tabuse des

ten into ene

malas As otsted above

CCs

1 of we

• .

100-5-1

30 JULY 63:

Chines F

100-5-1

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

UNITED STATES COVERNMINT

• Memorandum

TO

Atta

FROM

Chief, Contact Division

Lincoln Staff

Chief,

offico

SUBJECT: Attempted R.I.B. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labe

Ref:

] Reports 2988-3 and 2989-3

DATE: & July 1963

1.

We thought the attached reports would be of Interest to Ilncoln

Stair from a Soviet roallties standpoint. We also felt that they should

be brought to the attention of Divialon management because the M.O. out.

Iined thereln le boconing a for factor 10 doallng with sources who have

contact with Sovblos nationals. It has been our experience that the type

of activity outlinod has been on a mrked Increase, particularly since

the establliment of the KAß 10th Directorale. Although such activity

by Bor logile la takine place throughout the continental U.3.i undoubtedly

1te crontest Impact le being felt ln the l

arcan because of the laxen soriot Government establlehmate la both of

these cittes. For this reason it rould seem imperative that both l

and

_be extremely vigllant for such activity in companies and 1aat1-

tutions with which they are doling ln ordor that lt may be recognlied

1n 1tn enrltent stagea and appropriate CI/CE counterurasures Instituted.

In order to aslut other offices ln this reapect, ve plan to vrite in the

near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our

experiences along these lines.

2. No vere sonevhat disappointed In CI Start's reaction to our

rocent request for annistance in defensive briefing of the mubject of

one of the attached reporte. It seeme to be quite clear nor that our

orlelnal nuption concerning hin being R.I.8. targeted vas quite correct

and that there In a strong Ilkellhood that hia current trip behind the

Curtaln v1l1 be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or se

actul recrultment atterpt. We wonder In future cases of this nature

Although we

feel that we have a fair capability for handling such mtters here in

we do adult that, at least on this one, ve would have felt

sligitly more comfortable had a CI speclallat been along, 11 for no other

reason than to proclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the

"Old pros."

106/2

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00009

SECRET

-2-

Subject: Attempted R.I.3. Penetration of Bell Telephone Laba

3.

Judging by the attached matertal, It would appear that, despite

established Ball policy (nee our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the

opposition has seen ilt to deflower at least tro of Bell's scientifle

virgias. We serfounly vonder at this point juat hon many other Bell

people ught be in the inne boat. Perbaps, an a result of all thie,

mome representation by Bell mnagament to the KAB will be fortheoning,

apolling out to that organisation, as vas spelled out to our ow, estab

lined company palley pertaining to such mtters. In any eveut, It would

appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably

more, have been giving the R.1.8. more cooperation and reporting than the

rency. Let's hope that in the near Iuture Bell magerent takes som

flective steps to rectify tale rather ludierous, and patently dangeroia

situation.

Attachments:

_Reporta 2983-3

and 2989-3

10612

SECRET

---

## Page 7

1000018".%18

•Memorandum

Attra

1 No 181

Support l

Chief,

11. 58.

Gilice

Apparent kId Interest In

Be11 Telephone Lau:

(201-734194)

201 15ed 154

0930-12j0 bolars 114 Juise,

Ci Bell 10o0

recelved a strons defensive bricfine in corretion with his Jure

ruly urlp to the usan ind buiguria lace me 7 'ry Coolinatlou Out.

line for cubieet.

I'rom him thât prior to a trip to tor U638 in 1259 he hail been can-

tacted by an Individual who reprecentes liarl. se u west Gorman

Intelligence Officer. More Importunt,

about the sane tie, RIs cultivation si

Concerning the West German aproach,

that his mother, who reuides in imur, in velophoned in 1950üy

an Individual who cleted to be an ol sequitneance dt her son's

and who war Interested in contactint, hin concertine employmt 1n

The caller left a phone nune sid melt that he would ap-

rreciate 1b 11[

could call hin nodo tan: he was 11 Henan.

I nother relayed the mercage de bur con, and, ou requested,

he telephoned the caller just prior to his iss, USUR junct.

Individual be called identiried himseli no i doss Germ intelligence

Officer and said that he would 11k: 10 us:.

ao coon as

possible.

When slug met, tor individal in question

] does not recali his name precontes suitable crodentiale

and expressed Interest Ir. [

Jurly to to: ISSR. Accurdire to

Jaccount, the Weat German Inveiligence Officer gave him the

"keep your yes and sais open' pitel, and ::li him that he would

contact him In the iIrst West Cerman city in wich he touched down

I was corveted in Stuttgart promptly

after returning to Germay from the USi on his ray buck to the us.

Because of his US employucat and the laci tha:, Bell pald 1or hle trip,

very apprehensive scout any lurther contact with the

West Gestun cerve and treen trees tell alected cact on mad

nothing to cay and wanter i0 lurther coract.

noting to us and metal o east The die i ey

establich the iona i'lies of the Germin to made she aprroch.

We pointed out to L

the milkely poolullity that the apprach

night not have been vone fide and might,

1r luch, lave bern a provo.

* cophe, atticalled.

SECRET

SEWSHIVF

106/8

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SEASITE

1 that. :.. ...

gin.

ArcordIni, to Pali made sait

it this at

•"'it"

cunnectia witi. the invil-ti. r,

411

that during bls visit hu i uid bair

Sor acoustics engineer hu ad very

and hnd dune seve:in Russian tri

wrote.

ut his home a cuttle or days too!

117491:.

i..

siT.

10c1te

its i lie

di.d

S1%"

caller,

alke to delita.

• it it

up the indira n.

laria: ile tit to wonder

latter deudins, a wever, iliaid

an area closed :.::9t:

the sor aronged su at joini, do'e

Hew dessey!

nal at that

I'or her husonnd.

that to do til bitin

seidel that dis -Due Milit to chi 193a 19o jolte

routine and that ai coin! recuil nothinu dut

duine thi crib. Drine

in sit.

recrived a fris

Purduer had just cumpleted a visit

city bad asied hin to deliver a perent to

the phone call.

"oisin insisted on deliverin th pissent to

in person, and

th. tro. 2ie irrargenents

to here lan toothe

followine week in Manhattan. This booth

SECRET

SENSITIVE

10612

---

## Page 9

1d-0d0d

SUNSITIVE

Subject:

Apparent ide antrice" in

neil Delephone lebui

ur more anüects with labii. water

recrived d iute dron volgis diatis:

he who do her.

that me chid in,

there.

incidentaliy,

to hua were to his lue ind usually spinsure to hav.

Beld then ate neat! cs with wrinkl, initide!

lunches and dinnure in larhittr, uctrid.hr

ata ww! ": l.l.d.

scoting, thetce, li: entertalment di ouch otlar in thats irozoo:1y.

his contuct with vulgin. Other tin in dis wn fanly, Vulgli never

to uny sher linoiduals.

Linina at one conde i recachi"

can't ricall wurther olein spoiltially coquitod

At une point durine their rciationably,

8.

In retrospect

admitted that ho lid beon guile unlve

about his relationany r1th Volgin und expressed sum concern that a

security lad't beer:

nore actlve

ment of relationch! e with jou dov rcunt cpren...lics.

Ills view

of his experienced iris competely colucides with soro us a result va

our discusalon.

Do Another fuctor valeà strinualy enters neol

picture la la nice bulgartar citraction.

Tain Cas Sha

neither he nos, to the best of hT2 Knerg,

hi: wit have ever been

appruached by surbo. representatirca

wife's failly li. Rugaria.

wife until jovember 1'62 when she rocuried to allo, apprently because

the was homesick ani couldn't niurt to thr new lunguage and lIfe in

raid that ile wolma-li-ld's origland exit v-it

request was rejected to 1958 by tor Dizaric: ivormmut, but after hu

and his wife wrote severu: lettere

she was flually granted poniailin to icuve in 1860.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

10612

---

## Page 10

SECRET

SENSITIVE

Bubject:

Apparent RIS Intorest in

• Bell Telephone Laba

10. Afterl

visits the USSR on bla current trip, he

plans to fly to Sofla to spend approximately a veek with hia vife's

fically there. I

outlining his original Itinerary to

fore, It vus not mentloned in |

_of thie office, there-

Coordination Outline.

11. All of the above vould seem to indicate quite strongly chat

, as ve orignally surmined, has been targeted by R.l.S. In.

brieting I

altuations fabricated by the oppositlas, e do, women, bonorexuale,

purdhase of druge for Sor eitizens, black market activity,

acceptance

of letters to mail outalde the USSR, commitmente to disaffected Sova,

etc.

In addition, ve atringently admoniahed

any

notetaking or photography which could in any ray be construed as com

promising.

We also alorted

to the fact that some attempt

ght be made to use his dies family do levorage la a recruleme

tempt. In thia connection.. we pointed out to

_that there

was a strong likellhood that the R.I.S. and/or Bulgarian sorvice would

mke an approach to hia during his fortbeoming visit to Sorla. An

approsch in Bulgarta vould give the sore an opportunity for disavoral

and also vould provide the proper setting for maximun utilization of

relatives. When l

I mentioned that his sister-in-law, FNU

I had indicated several times in the past that she sould 11ke

to loave Bulgaria, ve strongly admonished him against making any com-

nitmente to ber, potnting out that she may poosibly be co-opted by

the opposition.

We toldl

_that any representations to gain

an exft vie for his sister-In-law ahould be channeled through the

US Legation in Softa: L

→ me told that, 1f any pressure were

which night be in store for him.

12.

Prior to our briefing of

alerted Bell

management to ill of the ramificationa of

the Curtain. The unagement vas Inforned by

travel behind

Ithat ve felt i

our obligation to point out to them the strong possibility that

had been targated in order that they vould have all of the facts avail.

able before tening ofs on hio trip.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

10612

---

## Page 11

14-00000

--.....

SECRET

SENSITIVE

Bubject:

13.

Apparent RIS Interest 1n

Bell Telephone Labe

further approaches by for or Bloc mationals in this country.

10612

---

## Page 12

14-00000

abai180.

.?.

•Dare it 11004194968

3o Doperas surfer vul dentatio! Anyart US 20 Me, 1p: 14e

Madon 19 MAy.

Deputy chaimal,

scata tradisor fur Coordination st

Jas or dalyo

During terester 1060, valle la Daria, miJet

Insole I art tart of the ya do mained the

Whose slalde.

Doing nood on aloeiral majoet it doll lataraurios.

Allen mn eroet en matars pending.

10612

---

## Page 13

14-00000

althonia.

Da nine soportady baldo va

I & SHITE MET 10 0I M

In addithin to his wither 10-l, probably there an

Landagind

28. BINGLE

Dartes me carts ladted m.

ba1 me

ending wis

13. That 8g end Part so arts a to cant to

17. PRAIR RADIal 1S day 1969.

---

## Page 14

14-00000

li's

A 19 179€ AND 99

UNITAID STATIS CONENSATI

Memorandum

TeD

Atto

: Chler, Contact Divielon

* Bupport

FROM

: Chief,

Office

SECRET.

SENSITIVE

DATR:

26 June 1963

00-7-3266192

17. 29883)

Bell Laboratories

orr

58105t639

During routine debrlefing of

tories in connection with his recent USBR viait to attend the Pogor

Socloty Moeting, 5-14 May, Moscow (see 8878 for Coordination Out.

I1ne)# subject mentioned having had recent contact with a Solet doern

The Sovlet In question Identirled

rocerding to

hio Inttial contact with Pavloy took

-Place In Inte March follaring the International Convention and Show

of the I...E.F., 25-29 March,

New York Clty (see Case 39843). At the

convention

7 became friendly with two Soviet counterarts 1n

attendance, A. V. Hol and Anatole Trutka, both of whom

to his home for a social vialt during their US stay.

When the Boys

departed for home following the convention, L

Jaw them off at Hew

York International Airport.

It was at the alrport that ho first met

Pavlov, to apparently was seeing off all of the Sov I.E.E.E. delegates.

After the sov delegation had departed,

land Pavlov returned to.

Manhattan togother and, on parting, exchanged addresses.

3. A couple of vocks after their Initial meeting, Pavlov tele-

Jat his home and told him that Tlel and Trutka had asked

aim to send their varnest regarde to l

and thank him for the

hompitality which he shoved then during their trip to this country.

During the corveration, Pavlov expressed an Interest in renewing his

acqualntance vita

and suggested that he vould enjoy vialting

him at his hone in Madison, Hew Jersey.

Janid that he vould

enjoy seeing Pavlov, but that he was currently preparing to leave on

a trip to the USSR and Europe and vas not scheduled to return to the

UB until lato May. |

suggested that, In view of this, perhaps

early June vould be a good time for them to plan on sotting together.

vlor replied that he, himoelf would be in the USSR then, but woul

whon ho returned in early July. Incidentally, Pavlor?

*copy attacked

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

SENSITIVE

SubJect:

Apparent RIS Interest 1n

Bell Laboratorie

phone call to

tor cut in for

was made on a pay phone.

In fact, when the opere-

called Pavlor back at the pay phone.

down. somewhere.

• Boon after the phone call from Pavlov

IcVicker of the State Department and inquired 11 any clearance o

Pavlov'a proposed trip to his home in Madison rould be necessary.

McVicker told L

that any such clearances vere Pavlov's vorry

and that he need not be concerned about. same.

3. During hia recent trip to the USSR, It vould appear that

I was airosed to two incidents which possibly could have been

anked hin 1f ha could do him a personal favor by gotting him a sub-

cription to rationed Geographic Hagazine for which be, Petrov, would

_ 1a rubles.

I politely rerused.

s MOscoess

The other incident involved L

when ons of the soviets in their party vas about to take

a picture of hin standing next to Iudallle, another individual stand-

1ng nearby vas pushed out of the vay apparently so that be rould not

be Included In the photograpi. In addition, ludullla attempted to

strico an affectionate pose with

for the photograph by sllpping

claims to have pushed her arm avay Just

an the photo wus being snapped.

7.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

10612

---

## Page 16

----------------

Subject:

SECRET

SENSITIVE

-3-

Apparent RIS Interest 1n

Bell Laboratories

approaches by Pavlor or other sor legala in US.

_Ing

SECRET

SENSITIVE

10612

---

## Page 17

SECRET

1. 10ay 1909

Bal Las

ParA 01110e

•Pallowins la coordination outl120 fe

Bubor rigressed that |

I Do given dermalvo brteting bye no befure

ping betital durintmo An you ara alronty muro, inbor 1a Vlee Preadin

Banes

Bato aal: Flose ef. Hirthe

Ban and Altranni

he plovion Austs, sallow, Est Jernay.

Mao el eployant and giltions sell Inde, terry null, low

Aran Dentratoe Duden.

So Talen

Ingent departa 8a smy for yoou to attend

Foyoy Ensloty marting, 310 May. Falloudes Hosten senting

he illl viole labo la sortin Drope for somaltaly ene

6o Masson ma romen fer trim bljest me invital to sire

Sooßol. (Iteratton! Mlestants and Ilestrleal Meatsoura).

Te dosity Gatass

Do hald fameahle FAl cepletion en solent

• dated 10 din 9.

Bo Arontons Intelligene Aotarissess

10.

12.

Itant of portons trise to dated arena.

Bans.

Amiyala el bnjert's Asperones Ar. Bate Palles, Bole,

Bade, 1001 Calata universty, Mall, 19388 U8 Ary Signal

24o

mattle dating & my LoSS.

SECRET

106/2

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGLNCE AGENCY

n: 89 @ l,p18s Sa6908 att - 110

C-0-H-F-1-D-ä-A-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY UBER

'??.

'i''

Allogod House Arust of Soviet

Balentist, L Chlatorich

NO PAGES

PEFERENCES,

DATE OF

PEO.

rely 63

PLACE &

DATE ACOR -- UIT 63

IMIS IS LINE VALUATED INGORMALIOA

DOUnG: US e1t18en, prosesdur 1a à Us univerasty.

' Ile le an authority on acoutice.

third:/

1. I attondod the 1aird International Congrons on Acoustico, 1-8 sope is,

etuttgart, West Germary.

₴.

Mallo at thle Congress I met a sorles femalo aclentiut, l (hiatorica,

who la connacted with the

Parlor Institute of Physiolos,

lentneral.

One day during the Congress I took a walk in the black forest wiet

I Calstorich and another Soviet sclentiot. Altor a short tine, the

other Borlet aclectiat excusel himsal? anying that he had to rejein

hia colleagues.

3. In Juano 1963

an acoustlulan with bell Telephone

laboratories, vas in the USSR.

On his roturn to the Us he told me

that

he had beard while in the USSH that. L Chintovich,

on her roturn from

tha 1959 Stuttgart Congreas, hal leer placod under huise arest.

also auld that he had seen I Chlat wich while he wan In the ssoR, ani

he had anked her 'whether it was true that she hal loen ulaced uner

house arrest on retuming fron the Stutifart agresa. He rall

chlatorich'a only reply was to blurt.

4.

I suspect that the individua he reprie: 1 Cheerun to die giariler

was furly Pavlovich Lysanoy:

in comested idl'h

In Moscow.

He publishes ver 11t:le 9ix: Mi: comiu. ban ceone! d0099 da

me.

He was In

the United States le 1ji-19,7.

I carpet that liao ier!

that L Chistovich tok a walt. with ne aine may il. have been thr reason

Bhe

was placed under house ariere.

file

il."

NORMATION REPORT

snow!

Enciedne tron autamalle

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

declassibcalas

JARe

INFORMATION REPORT

NO DIE

DER ARROAD

GEt CINE

#arg

D/BEL

el the

Aren

д0

---

## Page 19

FBI Ripot dated a5s 43/Ciish.D.efikd +(5) 65-63478

F8) Report Lated 27 the 63 (7.4.).4)

TOP SECRET CROSS

REFERENCE

---

