# 104-10186-10120

## Page 1

104-10186-10120

Д d8с.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES!

REPORT NO.:

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES.

REFERENCES

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT ROgElLO TANAYO

CSCI-316/01229-64

5 October 1964

2

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO OCTObEr 1904

_FIELD REPORT NO.

TRIS IS UREVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENZATIVE.

SOURCE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comnents

The following report is one of a series containing personality

informacion provided by the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is reovested that the addresses take no action on any o

the

incaviduals mentioned in the personality reports withou

first crecking with this Agency.

Rogelio TANAYO, he said that TAMAYO

Dareccion General de Intelagencia (General Directorate of

Inceiligerce - DOI) or the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado

(Departuent of State Security - DSE).

TANAYO was described as having been born about 1937, being

3

Headquarters Comments

1.

An untested

source, in a report dated 3 October 1962, reported

that Rogelio TAJAYO,

an assistant manager of Cubazucar, left

Haoana on 5 Septenber 1962 for Prague,

Bucharest,

the purpose of discussing sugar shipments

with those countries.

2.

STATE

: DiA

REP

CIRCLAIT

nola feld distributien indico'od by "=")

On 16 January 1964, it

was reported that Rogelio TakAYO

saachez,

Comtercial attache

and Cubazucar representative at the

SECRET

Priso and to pos a.

FOREIGN DISSEY

I AIR

INSA

FST 2

CINCSO #

I&N'S

4/рó

13/SA/3021.5515/R

LISA DEL ARMILAR.

15-2

LUTE

RID/AN

il

ist?!!).

W7T12)

CT 4

RTD I

61818081

NO PROJECT (AL 0G,1

CSCI-310/01229-Gi

---

## Page 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CSCI-316/01229-64

-2-

Cuban Sauroy in London siie S Narch 1963, arrived in London

Lio. Palls On 13 Jauuary 190.

TAXAYO WaS

born on 28 October

19-8: in liabana, Cuba,

and carried Cuban passport D-126/63 Issued

in Habana on 20 January 1963.

3. I scisitive and iuliable source, in a report dated 13 March 1964,

that Rogchio TAMTO Sanchez was one of the Cuban delegates

to. the United Nations Econonic Dovelopment Conference scheduled for

23 Laich to 15 June 196%, in Geneva.

4.

5.

6.

1 fairly reliable source in a report dated I way 196%, Stated that

lonelio ThatO Sanchez was a moaber of the Cuban Sugar Commission

in Europe who represented Cuba at a Sugar Conference in Budapest

fror 20 to 28 April 1964.

In a 23 Maj 1961 report it was stated that Rogello TANAYO Sanchez,

Cuban Connercial Attache in London, would attend & meeting in Paris

on 30 May 1904 which was reported to be in aid of opening an inter

national market of white sugar.

In July 196% a Cuban refugee wio was a high-level Cuban government

commercial representative in the Western Hemisphere and whose

bonafides were established on the basis of proliminary interviews

said that he met Rogelio TAMAYO in MINCEX in early,

was the Assistant llanager of Economics in Cubazucar®

In late 1932 or early 1963 TAM.IYO was assigned to London where he

worked with Juan PERIS as a representative for Cubazucar.

believed that TAVAlO represented other MINCEX enterprises, but was

which ones.

he made frequent trips to Communist countries.

TANAYO as having been born about 1937, being five feet nine inches

tall, 140 pounds,

white, having 'black, curly hair, light brown cyes,

and acne marks on his face. He liked'to call himself "El Caballo."

s..o.O.--0:0-=-=

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

....--.-

---

