# 104-10211-10140

## Page 1

104-10211-10140

dISPATCH

QRASINICATION

BECRET

TO

INO

man ra mom

Catel, Wil Ditision

Chief of station, haadeo City

SUBULCT

Operational Manthly Faport, 1 - 31 Octobar 1963

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Actions lione; for your tafonation,

Provented below 1e a reporting of the optrutionl ant mport activities

Crogany D. PARATH for the abore mntionad period.

Tuo photogragate operationnl assigmants vere regested el PIPE

during the month of October.

requentod by the Military Attache Office and the Chief of Station to trufra Ar

personnel in pootograpay

enbassies produced norml coverage with the aruption of the LODE henle

uhich has the 113-2 ErIEser dorice to corer the additional extranen et the Cab

2. TY

lone. Tuo trips are panding for loveber or Daceber, ens to Monter

and the other to Veracrus-

3. TRANCES

Cant tand

Henchments! As stated 1a ger 3 4 4 3 1

Eletsibutions

0058 REJ

PEREICE TO

DEEPATCH SYMBOL, ARE PRAIDER

B0-22682

GLASSINCATION

18 Screate 1983

50-6-38

---

## Page 2

14-00000

137416-81

DISPATCH

ma cha

A1s Attacio piano

19. lestro for a

supert to ha rest la blo latustario Da roperer, coa d'as hio crologuat

procesure smuros the eust salla de tala parat la the fiata leta tre 1a 11la

deraloper vala dentrool the cruire beral of fila e esimal pocod s

ponibility e tras lia sua dovelond and pisel sy the stalles Ro Calos

al ptation stated spos tho station coulil not venter pietagnatle rasport to thi

parta bogm this truistag en

tininge

do SARIOE

Ao On Il DotoDer 2263, the Dapaly Casel ol lletson Intratos PArAN

to mot vita the losal Doll, Ciaton agent tão ma sumertisa sbologranale supporto

Parari, sith the egent prosent, shutuerphod doumats et a beral in Mudes Clig.

To demasto suro to De used an evidente alest mareotles ecumiera no vene

ambended at lardo, Tema by suston aceret. 1o eourler bal Lo: ladr

poemasalen ton cor bulo dusu of ment irola

don torn ars ol MErlo City, De ber enry comealemi derleo se unoá en

chie operation. Althoun the surenta dil not spons, one rall el 35 11: 0

ampended en tale epertion so a pacorson cnc100.

C. MUSORD in monitoring a recriver st e il loonted ut a hocal la Marieo City

The JUMPORA OI LAIO OSUALION SUA LO MISTA CCNAGATIONS E ILLO en liA afTIeLel

party ce n'oht be eterog al lin targe mito. Dis muro ins not coorel l

Sito Or Alo oasI duplay thair say ln Menteo.

a monting vith Wranza an an Iclaris epuntor. the natims tont 11000 m

Che LIONE antebouse en the evning ol 8 Ostober, Da opertor reportal Casi

thare sure so indentions of dentpeles on tho port al Into.

99-8 530

Cit. De sapone al this cpertion mes to monitor emmerlon bete &

VOIBIS ICTATYSE eNo offica ani la aguat ent posalair to recard eneration

Ho hotel real, the nean un unitting of tale milo opentio

l On 17 Ortober 1903, PANARE ponented a es ler oralial phot

pugile arleflag lo the statlon eres orticon.

follans mblecta: denarl photogruhle ladernory mpsort da al the dettoni

elandostla shot seraby unlss body emmeniuon sersces: Iutasualio traera:

banshone photocrale comring Dorlel mi Untallite ettssien: sport erre

malaz betà tis punport cons una the sino tenl; costino dorioeu vales conia

unich la done bols at tra station und ut MIs fo stition mport urition.

In antitson, si acinita ma discineed triesty nelalls in esalanaRLos el e

ino of castono and demoçers ste belering ro cocclutad ulta a desco sulle

on the develogame of o 57 usage nelos the uray slhad ol malioton se

matout alocanod durine the trafini, ina mpportal lo a druper el sutocratle

opulgunt end juints talen undar eparaticoul condition.

USA MEYOUSIDIION

PICH ND

50 71, 31-10A AMO SI 70

---

## Page 3

BEHET P4 l bE!

w d e n d @

KEA 2048

&n Ou ãl CErober 19S5, PASANl pbstoprubel S5l Mrasno, uslas the

Dovordt to fULfLLl & antaly UtalI D renuiresent for to Chler el Ele2lon,

taneo Citfe

6. NNCHNERE NENA

do Ichor ol epenatianl tarot muvos esspiorad daing the smtae Do

D. Jundor of Yul tripo cerpierad durlag the aastas 0.

Co motogrupalo aquijunnt sorned fos oparalional neet 0.

Il Porsenyaso ouipami regalredi l.

Bo fsbor of porplo tralaad in piotogmanlo toabnlguoo/ egulgantes 8o

TO TOOXA IOUE AD BEM

do Mock and lafte: 112 Johs.

do Total pritas S002.

8O S5ES MLEFOPIIAS tOO P00E.

3o Jyas esouottoss 60.

do 180 clea mll fllaI 8o

So Meet MISo (all typ0n)e 0.

6o Meoellonsma: 0.

= Calore o jahe.

Co Muarus statton Bopport

do CO0rt IPIBLOgI 3 INAGT LINOUIRE UNiAS 58 erVelepAr

Eo Majs nnl mualos e lettera omand nnl sonnniall.

3. Oraloal BrSREdI

mrlend Co COniD

SORN

8w 50.

POUS EDITIOAL

CEFLACH

90-J0. 39 208

A59 81 29

STT

8 80TY:

JCONTAAN

---

