# 104-10219-10095

## Page 1

104-10219-10095

UNCLISSIFLED

*INTERMA

USE ONTT

CC IDENTIAL

I SECRET

ROUTING AND- RECORD SHEET

SURECE

Soviet Young People's Surprising Awareness of Soviet Security

Activities Against Foreigners

FROM:

DOWESTIC COLLECT

EXTENSOON

NO.

Support Branch/paradical S-p2959

0.1on

HH-25634

DATE

Room 900, Key Bul cing ext. 2208.

TO: (Officer dengration, room mumber, end

/ DATE

trussiangl

RE CEMED

OFFICERS

INITIALS

FORWARDED

I November 1973

COMMINTS prevaber encta commend to alone tom anto

to who. Dry a leno ecrous cataras efter dodo comment l

SB/X/FR

5 B 01 Hqs.

3.

SB/SI/I

4 D

30

Hqs.

05 NOY 1573

ch

SE/i/FR

12 lu:

The attached is for your

information and possible

Interest.

SEA-00-A (S) -322/31747-73

VVor

i have is nices

Pete old i terread

A get foell money.

7.

B.

20 H3V 1973

west

3-4. Please diassifi, ther

document: :+t6 541-282338

und index sion indistined

CL BY 007622,

03,97

i MA

#CORAt

610 USE MONOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DIRECTORATE OF

INTELLIGENCE

DOC. HERO. SER.

DEC 18 1973

MICROFILMED

COUNTRY

USSR

SUBJECT

Suvior Young Peoples Surprising

Avarenons of Soviet Security Letivitjes liaisot

l'orelmers/Williezess of the Young Peorle To

Relata Such Inforsation to a Visiting US Student

REPORT NO. 0O-415)-322: 31767-73

26 October 1973

2

5

3

l. A l'S educator who spent several months in the OSSR during the sumer

of 1973 reported that his collegc age child, tho accompanied his, had

bocone well aquainted with sone soulet young people la Moscow and

had learnad that they (tha young people) had an amazirg awarenesa of

Soviet security type activities againet foreigners. They were willing

to discuss these activitien quite openly with the young us visitor.

Thoy soned to know cho Identitles of forelenars who were under rug

picion, the reasons they were under suspieion and the nature of sur

veillance activesee that ware being carried out agalnst them.

1.01.0351

The young l'S visizor, who spoals gassian fluently, mentioned two casea

one had to do with leo cruller, & correspondent for the

Christian Science Monitor. le ls apparently under suspieton because,

first of all, his parents were (or are) Pussiar.

Secoadly, he was

with quaker War Rellaf In the USS? durine Horld Kar II.

These cireu

atances, and perlaps others, have reportedly caused the soviete to

regard hin as some kind of

spy, and he is watched unassally closely.

There was convincing evidence of this then Grallow vas entertained by

the visiting US educator for dinner one evening in the restaurant of

the hotel where the is visitor vas staying.

As soon as the party eas

over and the US grous loft, the drunken husband of the vaitress whe

had served the group in the restaurant vas reportedly sumoved outside

by two Soviets who were waiting in a car, and he vas questioned in

Breat detail as to viat the foreigners had said. The young US visitor

heard this fron a yourg Soviet acquaintance vio either had a friend

ee interna sortet authorities dE via so worrie 25 inton stin

Another Instance wifeh secuad to demonstrate the youns peoples'

avareness of therfoviet officials' close serutiay of foreigners had

to do victo a US defector named "artin who ta helleved to bo living

In Koscen®

Durins the IS educator's viase to che USSR be (the edu

cator) recoived a letter fros friends in the US asking If he could

find out about Martin's present situation - Hia bealth, ete.

ibe

educator mentioned the lotter to his child (the IS student) and said

he ald not want to have amthing to do with the request that vas made.

By colneidence the l'S student had alrealy been fillod In on informazion

about "artin, hovever, by one of the yount Soviets. -The report sus

3

2

that lartin was living

In an apertment at the end of leningradekly

RECORD COPY

CLASSIFICATION

3793: 20155087682

201-283538

sier sooni

REFERENCES

OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepored by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational informarion contained

herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, ClA, without the prios permission

of the Domestie Contact Service.

US citizen. Educator.

---

## Page 3

Prospake, that he mn living on a pennion and ho sno sufferian fron

extreme boredon beesuse be apparestly uns not doing anything.. but

that he ss fa good health.

Adittonally. it was mentioned" ther

Martin appeared to be in hin liftles (while he 18 actually such

younger).

There ma, of courto, no way to vertig any of tale inter

mation, but 1e had been volunteered frealy to she US stadent by

soningly Intelligent young souters, and there conned no reason to

doubt its anthenticity.

• end

"".?

CHIIIIIII

---

