# 104-10186-10325

## Page 1

104-10186-10325

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

sunsun: jocucais brougie out by d'awal and ilis Quenes Concerning

Then.

"Compañero

3. a lottor dated 20 dril 1964 addrcasco to anero VaLay ana:

SigN "NGUSIC". This loster requests VizA to assist scaret. Tao

incriuce ida to the 2GI ofticor assigned to Prague.

astusto" is pseudo

used wishin the Del for the Dejuty Chief who is snow in the Ministry of

Briga selations as "QuIN".

2. MariGi explaired dias the dead of the scivico, danuel PINIO

BezE so joscow on a trip leaving Cuba 11 April 10ú4, The Source (a-1)

ridently and coturned fron dexico on 23 Narch 1964.. After the departura

• 21:5130 the Source told the Daputy Chiel that it as necc:cary for

di=, the source, to go to prague so that ke could auct on 22 April wiii

NET G2II41S DiZGIO, the Sicrotary Ceneral,

pal in al Salvador.

These are the true nure saù position oi GiRilllis but the Source invented

the season for making an operitional moting in Prague knowing that te

Jopety Grief of the Service would not know any better, fine Source

Jone io ioxico on 14 Sarch 198t for the purp,se of holding a nocting

with wIllis and other nesbors of the Camunist party Eron El Salvador,

but the renting really did not taic place because the Salvadorians failed.

27201r. In talking to the Dosuty mief of the Servica, tuc Source said

made it necessan for him

to have a

Jectisg in Frague with GLUILLIS, who had to be in Prague for still another

MAXICO

---

## Page 2

beating colating to revolutionary activities to bi carrioù ous in

*i Salvador.) The Source did chis bachuse it scencd to his tha best

way of setting out of Cuba vica docuzcats saich ho lind grenered.

Tie,

Source was successful in convincing cha Desuty Chiút of die Servico that

the operational accting in prague was a necessary follow up to tie

Sourçe*s recent-trip to jexico. hen Source prepared his briefcase for

tho trip out of diba he found thas only a part of the docúsones which

hä had been collocting would fit. ¡a sclocted those which appaared

most interesting and left the othors locked in his offica in tie DoI.

It was the Source's intention to seck asylut once lie arrived in tio

frce world

at the first stop in Canada and to request in that ic be

penaitted to go to the U.S. with the documents to surrender thos to

KUBARiE®

3. Source collected the documents over a period of tire at

considerable risk because a number of the documents were in the possession

"of otlier CUIS officers in their desks or safes.

Source nade it a custon

to visit these offices and to take auvantage of the temporary absence of.

the officers assigned to them to steal the documents which he then put in

his orm safe.

•4, The Source was quite worried because he fearco that wien he arrived

at the nirsort to leave Cuba ho might bo requiral to open his bricfcase.

This fear proved groundless. and he was able to leave Cuba on 21 April 64.

on a flight for Prague which had tostop at lalifax, Canada.

5, Prior to leaving Cibal the Source withdrew iron his savings

account in a Cular bank all that he had which amouated to 1272 diban

pesos. He gavo this anount to his wite whose nare is luisa RaRIGueZ

Rodriguez (maiden nane sane as married dase). In giving tid susey to ber

MEXICO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ho did not say that he intended to dolect and, in fact, never gasmates

nad given her any indication of his plans to do so, le lest nor letórant

of his Intentions dasnito the. Inct that she and her father- are oppocod

to the Castro Regina decause he felt it better for her nos so do burdened

with guilty knowledge. In giving her thu money he caid that possibly he

would be delayed in pragud because the mattor ho had to discuss was.

coablicated. lie told hor therefore that lic would fool better inowing

that she had sufficient funds at hand to thic care of any crergencies in:

connection iti herself or hot children loy,

# previous marriage); a boy,

Vincente, 13 years old, and a girl, Francisca, 12 years o1d.

The CUIS (DEI) sent a cable to pragua to advise tirit the Source

would be arriving. decordingly, when the Source left the glane at lalifax

it was a foregone conclusion tiat his failure to arrive as scheduied would

so roporica to his oin Servico.

7a In addition, wion the Source diu ariive it illifac the pilot and

erer of the airpland and tic other passengers becane avarc of the fact

that he had requested asylum in the frce world. Tey callcü hin a traitor

which led his to state that he was no bore a traitor for loquing the present

segine than Fidel Castro was for opposin, the Batista Regise. The inter-

change of comments /ectresa the Source anú thosa via vere continuing on the

Elight to Prague alnost resulted in a fist fightat lalifax, Tia Source

cook fron Giba $2615 in U.S. billa, ¿cactically all of this arount was

what reained from the dunce iven to him by DoI when ie vonê to

¡sexico, 5 uhich he haù not accountei plus the avner given hia for

the trip to prigue, men iù declared iis intortion to unadian authorities

PRAGUE

'іна'.

---

## Page 4

to rcaain la panada do pas jirais a Eucairo cor e540 in dacrican

cirrency (chile socalpt is also attachod): Me diEforunca of $75.00

that he had in in aurict tis uraigoi expenáca walla in Canisiao ilo

In in ils briorcasa 250 salvadorión Colonor i la rici Gio Cnnacilana

jid not given him a reccint. faid confiraan tint dile count

van in tire possunsion dE tao cinadian covarmcrito).

(The natter on is uney shiel the soured lad chion fro siba lator

accane a probles with the canadians, laricly because on talking with

tho Canadian Irnigration Sorvice the sourca indicated that the money

belonged to the arban Corernment rathor than to linsalf. This was

reportod to cho amadin cornal AlCairo Office and lad to a docision

by the Canadian Govornnent to hold the money -U.S, and Salvadoriar

so that de could do returned to the Cuban Governion is requests mis

docision of mich the Sourco vas mado avaro by

per request of

lancolli made his angry and at his request tic

las' told that,

In Spuree"s opinion, if the money sus returned to it lould ba used for

promoting rovolutions in tha frèe world which incluted Canada, Tie

said tint in all probability the money sould not du returned to

the Cuban Covermiant and within a untier of montis would be turned

over to kuniri for return so the Soubce iut that che

could not

sive de to the Source or to Micosal.

In this connection it should be noted that sich inüdidi arrived

in Canada no decision had icon nade as to the disposition wich could

be mado not only of the noncy but also of the Source hissele and tho

documents which he had in his possession.

6/5R

---

## Page 5

chase dosiro :2as

to tumovor the sourca and avoryching that no had

brought to LbiGisal but this culawas a policy matzer mileh had to

bo resolved by.

Elia Ginadian Covanint and noi only by the a 29

This nattor nado it sorcuai alllicult so conquet inccruicua with the

Source oçcause 'all of than tara tapod ly the

and Laiüscil had

to be caroful to avoid questiona or anovcra which put obstaclos in

the pach of sceuring the turnovor of Source and whas ho had brougit

with him. mo final decision of the Candian Coverment; altor the

intervention of the Oteava station, uns tist tha Souree and the docusents

could bo turned

over but not the roney.

The Source said that tho necouncs for an Intelligence Officer in

tho DCI are not subjocted to close insaccison and that, in fact, he

had the authority as a desk officor in charge of the Salvadorian

arca to raqueat substantial arounta for opcrations ichout any necd for

accountings. A typical cramplo la that he could drau for every traince

----a+4+-9765- 9-11

[ron his on assigned arca $1200 without question, le did have to give

detailed accountings for largor ospenditures.)

EL SALVADOR

21BR

---

## Page 6

s 2540.00

the sur of TacE Firmena Fim

Alier ST. 06.

Compañoro

U, 14:

Il pretadir pourage an el propote

Remene Kopes Non dame semente.

su estmois. Sautigasenes.ede

el segainte avia cle Subans

alespine de no legacho.

diges

c6!964

abis do

PRAGE 4IBR

---

## Page 7

Cuguante a dilat" le 241:222

"Thine pirnes nif dlint bied lic id

callel 'Chaire (enick wnlc

Betiue meime) in Pire isheine it.

Hrafin VILA KeNdéSnieii

in Cabon Trit in Praque + chsit

PRAGUS

---

## Page 8

Argente

---

