# 104-10183-10276

## Page 1

1104-10183-10276)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

•OPE

19 June 1964

•.

ACEMORANDUN FOR:

VIA

SUBJECT

Chief, WH/SA/&I

Chief, WH/PO/A

ANUG/1. Operation

Target Analyais and Non-surfacible Leada

Reference is made to your memorandum date 16 June 1964

reyuesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be

exploited and lists of those leads which the Branch destres

not to be surfaced to the Intelligence community.

2. Attached are separate lists for each appropriate

Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals

of sach country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise

cropped up during the debriefing of Ablü/l.

1l/2 considers,

at this time,

that it 1s not feasible nor desirable to surface

any of these leads to the intelligence community, pending &

final determination as to the feasibility of pursuriny sone

of these leads for operational exploitation.

Thosa Leade

which are determined to be

of no operational potential will be

released to your office on a continuiny basle for surfacing

to appropilate agenclos.

Attached also are seven completed Targot analys18

Summary Reports on:

a) Francisco Jarior MBLLA Peona

•-D) Jaine DURAN liernando

1.c) Socrates Isaias PEGUSRO Sehuroer

Jean Norbert MONTERO

• d)

149.. 0)

Mauricio de la SELVA Venegas

Roque DALTUN Garcia

---

## Page 2

-2-

8) Noel GUERRERO Santiago

These individuals reprosent inmodiate targets on whon we

have already undertaien action.

He anticipate that certain

selected other Individuals from the dists cited 1n

paragraph one above will becone targots, and accordingly,

are in' the process of exanining and investigating these.

As these individuals

are culled through, Targot Analysi

Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to your

office.

26

(John M. Whitten)

c/N11/2

Attachments:

Target Analyais Sunmary Reports

ANMUG/1 Leads Not to be Disseminated

DIstribu t10"C/H/SA/C1 (w/atts)

0% 1 .

WH/P/A (w/atts)

3 - M1/2 (w/atts)

---

## Page 3

Loatntean Republe Loads hot do be Masoninatod

119150/1 Operation

Francisco Javier REliA Pena

JalNe DURAN Hercando

Socrates Isnisa PEGUE) Schuroer

'Ipidio RUIL (¿is 19 an allas Of "TIBNO!" - trno name st111 not 'knowa)

David ODOlLO ESPAlLAT CaRpOs

Francisco Sleuterio RAiDS Poguero

Francisco Elizardo RAkoS Peguero

Teresa Inoconcia ¿PAILIAT Hernandes

Jose Sienvenido GUzifa Kouel

Hector SurEstO CARUl. Orteja

Leopoldo Ariosto ChOLiON AUlR

Silvano L31 Viconte

Ilandor Canoni SalIa Colmonto

Ana Mercedas 3UPIRAL de Castro

Baldeniro 415700 Garcia

Marcolino GRilOs Jinenez

Denito AL¿JO deran

Morgo Boralo Perrandos

Rafael Francisco TAVaUS insario

Haco TOTIS vargas

Carratano Arzando iNDUCTE: Del irado

---

## Page 4

14-00000

- 2-

intorio Fallio Joso Iil Condo

Sinon BOLIVAR

ATtarO RAFAel ¿SPAILIAI iOdrIgues

Carnon Bo HEINANDEZ, do Paxas

Ernesto LOPb2, solina

Marino LOPEZ Molina

---

## Page 5

-X

2 Salvador Loads Not to bo Dissolaatod

117:00/2 Operation

V Eaul Pornando ESC034R MelOndez GuiRANd uNArAKE ANAliNE iMey

" CArIOS ALbANTO PIORES HOTRANdOZ GUERRILLA WARFAE ARAUNG COUD X

Juan RaDOR LOZAO ROBALOS ALIAS IF REBENTO BENINI MANIN

CArlOS XARTINEZ OTtIS DEAD-GUERALUN MARIANE TRALINE ONLY

BiCardO AUgUStO MPTIEZ VANOAS GUERRILLA UNAFARE PRAINE MUNY

VIvan DeRIlO PODRIGUS ICON GUFARILA UARFARE ARALING, GALY X

O lisandro RAMIRI SOliS GUERRIA WARFE PRAINING COLY X

POdrO ¡ODRIGUST GUERRILLA LARFAKE PRAININE OULY

~ Victor Manual SANCHEZ BOnIlLA GUÉMILA MAREANE AMONNE MOLY

1 ATEUFO ALPARO FEBRTES GUERRILA LUAREARE PENINING UN-Y

faul Actonio VARIAS GUERRILLA LANFARE PENININO IRLY

ROqUO DALTON Garcia

TÁ

JOSO SaLVADOI ROBALOS GUINNILLA UNPFHE PRAINING INLY

~ Freddy Guerra

• Arando LOPE MantIal CLINAMA ILANTARE HEAIUL6

-viy

---

## Page 6

14-00000

- 2 =

PEdrO SALICHUL CASTrO GUERRILLA CANTANE PRALEG CELY

RubEn MARTS. Quardado CLEMRILLA MARTARE PRAINE CALY

? Raul Concopcion Morales No REGIAN iN AUMNG.!

+ + 49684629159180

ALFVANO CENTERTETT

- JESUS AntORiO PAZ GUERAILLA MARFARE IRAiNiNE

duty

-RILA SAMIRI GUERRILLA UNREARE TRAINE ONLY

TA

ARA LOTICIA BiLAZA (BARLAÑAI) SUITO GUERRILA iSMEARE ARANUUR ENLY X

Haul cartollanos

Mati surprisin to sto

TÀ

ACCO MONRISE IN EUNITE INSE

+241626-2507798

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SEGUET

Gustomala Leads Hot to de Dissoainstod

Antonio JONH Karcos

/Jullo CAURELA SerTa G/W

i Prancisco Cil Fliuoros G/ l

1 Victor Masol CUILAR Carrenta G/v

- Bernardo DLA2 Mondas 6 ' e.)

Rolando MAREZA Horrendar CJu

Marco 1220010 L808T A5912ar G/U AMMuC-I UNiAS

Vidgar Saberto LOBO Dedos Gu.

JOSO AqUIles la MORALES G/LU ANUUG-, HNINS

Maruel Jouuo ORTEDA Paz

Angol PAlLiCIA Sancher G/W auLy

Ricardo Arturo dUliAll (pooudos Alberto sMUS ioliari

Jacobo ARBEl, Ousean

tario BARREFATOS

Manuel CALICH

Caron 30482030 Soa

Formando SOSA Pol

Marco Antonio YON Sosa

Lula Auguato TUCIOS lira

Franciaco ALADO Granados

Alleia HOXA do Asado

A4-00/1 Oporation

Victor Yanuel GUTIBUS: Garbia

Isabel lOHL ronoro do soga

JOSO BUGAL S

Nolide TuaCIOs

SECRET

---

## Page 8

Ealt1 Leada for lo de DissonInarod

Sorge Herbert IDITENO

Rane DEPESTRS

19105/2 Operation

SEGNAT

---

## Page 9

honduray Leads Not to be Diaseninatod

Mazllo RaID Espinal

Mario 905A Javarro

Laila Randolfo BANBOAS

N7iU:/1 030286100

---

## Page 10

:

Hicarera Leads lot lo ba J13501rated

• Moal 00ERP330 Santiago

professor JOllis (probably ¿delberto TORRLS ispinoza)

SIIVIO MATURDA (OS MALLORCA)

Ernes to MARTINEZ

Dernan PALACHI Baca

Carlos A. TIADOO Montiol

Marvin CASTRO

Falls HONTENSEY DObLI

¿DiGio Dinariato 00:7ALEl. torono

ALOJARATO ALERTIA BArTudes

JUAn JOSe CANCIA LOrIO

=71 ALIMERUO

Barerdo ALTAMILAD L0203

Ivan BACA

Alejandro BeNDE

Anibal LORIO Carcia

Enriquo MARENCO

Orlando SuAFT Juintena

Malando QUANT

Montorrey SItS

1070/ 030ra 1109

Train SANtia sarcho

---

## Page 11

'anana Loada lot to be Jason inated

Thelsa KIND

Jorge TURNER

(Unknom) "Luis Sonrisa Caso" - 2 male sultariate

15100/ Operation

---

## Page 12

SEOSET

Domlalcan Sopablle

NEUO/ Operation

SUBBETa Pra clica Jarler Milla PaRa ata Franclaco Larier MELLA Dona

Significanco of fargot

a) Cuban Intellirance Service Connection

Atten has boen idontiflod as a Singleton Ouban Intelligence

Servico Agent In the Dominican Republle, trained an a frognan,

and also in S/d and cippers. ilia eret alsadon on benale af

the CIS la not ino.

b) Comunist Party Lsflllation

sna ArGi la not a Comunist Party per se; hoverar, 1i5 present,

doninant losdors are sarist Comunist in thair poiitical

diroction, Tho AiCI la premmod ponetratod by actial Camunisto,

and is inown to recalve toral and anterial support fica Cubo.

c) Infornation inich Could be Obtaload

lo Fas oract mission on behalf of the Cuban Intelligence serrico.

what Infornation 1s he required to furnish to the jerticol

The reason for this informition.

"hat persons u111 ho uso to acquire this Inforation? vill

they all be unitting?

3. hat 1o h1s usact rolo aa a frogani (for arma caches,

demolition etc..)

lo Inforzation da bia accomodation addrasa la Prasce, Additional

Inforzation on his accosodation addroes in jaseles.

So Infersation on tho relationship beturea Cuba and the 1:CJ

and plans for tho Dominican Ropublie.

6. Interantion on other Cuben 1i agento inoon to nla.

7o Doubling (508 IiI for sora datalls).

---

## Page 13

• 2.

II.

Current Location

Hermanos Miralles So. 5, Hadrid, Spain (aince February 196d, uben

in the Dominicas Republie 19 Avenida Independencia lo. 59, sento Donogo.

III.

Tulnerabilities (for recruitaeat or defection)

ne only inforation on Milial vas acquired in April 176

le thai ¿lao Natial boca

IV.

Paully and islatizes

a) mires (lonara JilAaLi desillo, ioninicaa eltizon (20 Information)

Pathers Inis Mala, juinacan citizon (no inforsation)

HoLore joenl (nes uairos) do dubu, joalaican clilian (so Iriorsatlon)

(Ina tanto inilno italion is prosently conductia; au Larestliallon

os hia ralatlros)

o) Mono enom to to in the United States.

B1o: raphic

Dato of Birtre 23 Februa"? 1237

Place of Birth,

Citisonsalos

janto cominio, ioninican lepublio

ienintrar rapublic

lannares Karive spanian (only lancoare capsollity knom to ua at

this tine

mysical Descriptions : 13° tall

1 9 5009d3

blai: talr (eut short - tut not cros-cur)

dar brom oyss

guar try comploxlos

Moto: ramh!

Othor

serlinent

Is avallablo al ino jus

Minch sould de doserined as "praliy".

30 1142

Do mustanna and dona not 320%0.

---

## Page 14

= 3=

VI. Operational Leads and lines to Biblect for ilecrultrent or Defection

• EMy11/19 - Lives 1n sare aparesent building area as Subject

as furnished sose inforation on Subject and bis alrl-friend

which he obtained througs norsal contacts.

taret shoet.

unvitting coarlor for the dollery of microcila to cuba.

to the ArCI's extrenlat "circle.

3ood resulla for Inforsation on othar cuban targots of interest.

VIl. Salsations

communist acilrizlos. In the event he is arrasted be undoubtedly

would be decorted.

---

## Page 15

Joa inican Rapublic

Jarnet inalysis tomasy Report

1XE4/2 Operation

SUBJECTS JALDO DURAN Vernando ara Jalne JUAN Hornandes sia "lay"

I. Sienificance of Tarsot

•) Connection v1th Cuban Intalligence Servico

Subject 19 not a Cuban Intellience Service agant, but did

raceivo guerrilla training in Cuba.

b) Communiat Party Affillation

sovercont.

•) Subject is a close friend of Francisco Javier Milial rena,

dontified Cuban Intolligenco jervice l'ant in Le Dorinicar

Ropublic.

ubject was also used as an "undittir" coarior!

still unidontiflad Cuban li aient ributos in we abrinica

l'apublis.

subject unultbinly carried to Cuba for trisias"

in optember 1713, a mater-boox containino microfile.

utllity -

renotration of tho li June & plano le intoasions

of tho lubans ve D...

II. Current 1002110n

Balloved to bo In Cuba, las buen tiore sinco Septesber 1 7.3.

Last ‹nom Boninican Republir addreas: ispallla: 129, ianto soniaio,

Doainican Republic.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recrultsunt or defection)

Mone inoim. (1130 9c8 VII - ¿valualion)

IV. Fasily and relativoo

b)

Ho knoin relatires in the U.S.d.

---

## Page 16

- 2.

350258phic Data

Date of 81rths 17 June 1233

Place of 81rth8 Jarabacoa, Dominiean Republic

citizona los Jaminican foxolle

hanuage ability! datire Jpanish (only atility enora so us at tila flue)

Frysical descriptions (roquesting fros the tation)

Photosraphs Is avallable at the dosx

TI.

Operational loads and Ilnas to jubject for recrultuent or Defection

CROTH/1? - Ilyas la the sace residential seculon sa will. Eas

furiabed some Inforsation on Subject, which be obtaina throud.

normal contacte.

63412055/1 - Has providod numerous repores on DU:Ails actiritles

ritnin the Art.

Clin/ - Has prorlded trios inforsalon on Subjest's actsrilies

within tho ArCo and his travol to Cuba.

vIL.

Evaluation

In that se presuso tinal. Willi 19 a sard-core Courundat and at present

hare scant intomation for a tarzut asge33s0ne, lazadiste prosgecia

ror rocrultant are virtually nill requirements can be loricó on

02630103:/1 since

above, no vill bo starting at the botron of the laddor on trad as an

oporational tarzot.

SE0.23

---

## Page 17

Cuta - Dominican Republic

Iarcot Analysis Sumary Report

11003/L Operalton

SUBJECTI Socrates Isaias PIlUE 3ohuorer allas Neleon BARcT Disla dia "¡'upo"

I.

StElticence of Target

In Chat Subject lives In Cuba he could ha extremoly valuablo to

wi/sa and ail/2/vorainican leriblic.

8) Connection with Cuban Intolligence Service

EQUEr is tho APCJ (Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio •

Lith as Juno Political Uroup) representative In Cuba actin,

as focal point betreen the Arty and the Cubaa Intelligenco

jorrice (DUI).

conmntst Party a filiation

AFiJ representative In Cube. Subject nas been reported as a

Berber of tne pro-castro factlon of the drid since 19ul men

ho sas exiled tu Curacao.

c) Intornation rhich Subfect Could Purish

1. sabject could faraiah infomation on the ralailonshio

botimon tho Cuban Intellicence someico and toe N'ül.

2. Infornation on the dica da a party, plano, merbara orc.

3. Intornation da Cuban Intoll1-ence Service porsonnol i nou

to nia.

••¡ossibio operations of the Cutan Intollizence jervico ajalast

Dominica Republis.

rossible infortatlos on sallore oi intorast lo 14/58 dithin cuba.

i Roublin; as a sonotrailor of the Cusar Intolligence Serrier

ard the arüs

7. Inforation os Portalcans sola: trairod in subs, noi onló in

sorrillo trainini, but 93 a. 07r3.

---

## Page 18

II. Cerrent Locstion

alves 1n Habana, Cuba (address unnown). In Cuba ta soes by the

name of Nolson BARET.

III. Tunerabilitlos (for recruitsunt or dofosll0a)

Hose inown. No infomation on his activitlos since 17i1 15 knoun.

Lesly and rolativos

a) WIfe - Giacla SiCION do jeruoro, daughtor of forsor doulrican

Coneul in Curacao.

b) Children - one daughter (nano and are uninown), and one son

(nare uninown) born in liabana, Cuba in Jecsaber 191,3.

e) Father - Isaias PalJaW Ferez (doccaned)

Mother - Julia (100 unrom) de PUGIERO (no additiaral informatioa)

e) Brothor - Holeon Ramon PelVin) Senuorer (dacessad)

sisters - soboya be Pralin subourer and Maila de Pablow Sonuoror

(no additional inforsatios)

¿) No relatives known to do la tie Unllod: tatus.

Blossanale Data

Date of Births 1!, January 1223

Place or Birth

(HOTS:

hominican repaolle? posaibly chanied to cubar.

Language abllity:

lative sanish; olors not know.

cynical Descriptions jon' tal

150 perado

brownies: Inned

blacs eyes

nears Eye: 1a330s

rears noustache

Photo raph 19 avallable of ala end also tro real deloon BARET DiaLa

Jeror pertinent date:

Laborator Techsician

---

## Page 19

!? |

= 3=

VI. Uporational Loada and ¿tres to subjoc: for recruitment or Defochion

no havo soveral sourcos resortin, on activitiez of tho Apo, 1l

moors etc. within the ibninican Rapublie! Giros: /1 and/or

12 (Crori/1) could be usoc

report on other Cuban targeto.

VII. evaluation

shtle thero fa no Inforation on hand to indicate Jubject 1s

approachable, the fact that de la la Cuba, nom to 14-U0/1 - son

micht approach him - and tas been identitiod to us he bocomes of

operational Interest, Obriously our objactive is to contine

Intorest and collect what Inforastion ve night, analting ta day for

At that timo soro dorinitire action meht be

considered.

Xia Importance as a source of infornation on inside

Cuba and that countryle Intantion and casabllitics on lie Dominican

Republic cannot is discounted and monit our continued alartross to

his activities and sharcabouts,

3/0J

---

## Page 20

Targot Analysto Sumnary Report

SUBJECT: Roque DALTON Garcla

1. 81gulficance of Target

AMHUG/1 Operation

ind radio reception.

ember of the Central Comnittee of the PCES.

characterized Subject as having oxcellent contacta within

the DGI in Cuba.

Subject i8 in contact with Mauricio

do la Selva Venegas, the Salvadoran Intermediary,

Mexico city.

In view of the above, Subject could be

expected to furnish considerable information on both the

PCES 1n El Salvador and his activitles for the DGI.

11. Current Location

Subject was deported Iron El Salvador to Mexico in late

January 1064.

On 16 June 1904 Subject nas spotted by the

Salvadoran National Police In San Salvador, and 18 DOw

under surveillance.

address will be obtained by

the San Salvadoran

station.

III. Vulnerabilitles

AMMUG/1 1iats Subject an his lending candidate for recruit

sent by us.

Its reasoning on this 1e that subject is not

highly motivated, has a weakness for women and the easy

11fe, and a generally

weak nature.

AIGU0/1 says that

subject is very intelligeat, but nover shorod a real desire

to lenrn during his Cuban trainink®

Subject was given

600 dollars to purchase a radio recelver upon his return

fron Cubi, but he apparently spent the soney on himsell.

IV. Pamily and Rolatives

Pather (deceased) was U.s.

brothers fough

Margarita, la Hexican citizen

for the Ü.S. in Okinate:

One of Subject's three

A sister.

who now

Cubaas

student.

---

## Page 21

14-0000

-2=

v. Blographic Data

San Salvador, El Salvado:

atlonality

Salvadorar

anguage ability

bair parted on left side.

Photo Available: Tes

VI. Operational Leads und Lines to Subject for Recruitment

subjact do know forsongir or Arena brin

recently L

re presently under survolllance by the rational police u

in san salyador s

Joho might be used as a lead into Subject).

VII, Syal un tion

ITOR AMMUG-l's assessment of Subject, basod on personal

knowledge and obcervation, it sould appear that Subject

sould not be a too difficult target to hit.

Horover,

some of his personal characteristics which bave made him

& handling problen for the DCI sould presumably rate bin

a handling problem for us.

Vis fallure to perfore for

the DOI since October 1903 might mitigato against our

use of hin which vould include, presumably, resumption of

his s/y channel.

Nonetheless, ANUG-l's clala that Subject

is a mabor of the Central Coumittee of the POiS (nevs to

us) makes his an operational target for that reason alone.

4/PN

---

## Page 22

14-00000

Ha1t1

Jar-ot analysis jusary Report

ASTIC Operattoo

SUBJBET& Jean Horbert MONTERO

I.

Simificance of Fargot

a) Cornection edta Cuban Intelligence Sesvice

At tnis tina subject is noi an agent of the Caten Intelligence

b)

Francols JUVALIsil.

Cornist Party 109121azion

that chls party 1s Moscou influenced."

o) Inforsation »hich Subject Could Furnish

lo Subjoct could provido valuable Inforsation on the Haltlan

Libration Front, 1.0o, its rambers, plans, status with the

055k/Cuba ote.

2. Inforsation on the US=/Cuba position with respoc: to ilaltal.

3. Inforation da lisa/Cuba influenco and penotrations of

Hallian exile circles.

Lo Infarsation on Cuban'a rulationahis wilh inesident

5. Inforsation on laillans now 15 Cuba and/or the U3ER.

II. Curreat Losation

Moshlie miery no has boon ln extie.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

- 2.

III. Vulnerabilices ifor recrultrant or cofoczion)

is is stroa;ly anti-invallsi. In trat many saltl8a

exile circles ang sonedral doin on tro Unicod States as a rosult

of the unsuccesetal ieptorber 1?: 3 Inracion of 13121, 1l 19 possible

that subtect serely turned to tra "left" for assistance in overthrowing

Il is novever quite faasible tras no vould cooperate wita

te Urlcod Stries ti ho telt ve vere ta:in; an anti-trAlisa stand.

Iv.

sone nom.

Blo raphie DeLe

Date of Birth: Jarnown

Place of Biret: zält1 (3)

Citironarius taillan

Lanquaze abll'":

latire Fronca or Creolog zory Ilttle Spanish

Paysical description:

2:0 pourde

"cars saistacho

7I.

Utber pertine=

Sporallonal :ends and idres to juntect for Rechultsont dE dofoction

• En551

discroe!

1) Can !

VII. Jalustio:?

ina 1s only in a position lo naio

miro la andy in a position to na:o

16 19 b1 hl% probabls Lat

---

## Page 24

b) Subjoct 19 not subjoct to arrest then he returns to the

Darinican Republic, unlesa of course, his activities illa

the cubans becose mown. In auy event he definitaly would

not retura to Haltl, as he vould innodiately ba imprisonod

and most probably torturod and killod.

---

## Page 25

14-00000

IBrgOt AnalysIS Sursary report

SUBTICT: JOOl GUFREIDO Santiago

(201-81510)

1.

Sisn/ficance of Target

BLXU6/1 Operation

His Cubad

Intol pseudo l6 Andres sacarlata.

Mesioo in March Ists regarding tunds which the Do! had

provided the

FIN.

ACCOTSIDE TO ANNUCI GUERHERO LE

involvod In

"Nijos do la Tempestad" which also lavolves

three or four other IC! agents.

AlMit-l also reported

that OCERRERO la in trouble with the FLy bica clalma

be spent money laproperly.

Tas FLY bas no confidence

In bla and considere hia

covarily and lacking, In

Itchties spirit.

ty other sources he hus been descalbed

as one of the maln comuulsts la contral Aserica.

ise

was in Cuba la 1930 lo set Cuboi siú frenthe revolutivary

sovenent açalnet Nicaragua.

in was tormorly A seNuar

of the Communist Parts In Loxico.

was a cell lader

in coriato and aúvisor to the ¿tevaior's Coloa.

II. Curtent location

Ro la presently in lexico.

sas a political exlle

in Hunduria 1a 1951.

travellad extensively

throughout Central Inerlea ini miy lave beon clancoatinely

In Nicaragua In July 19%.

III, Vulnerabilitlen (for recruitarnt or defoctioo)

AKHUGI: GURRENO 10 In trouble with the FLy bich clalma

ha spant soney laproperly, The flit has no confidence

In his, and considers him corardly and lachlag la

eighting spirit.

of the abortivo incursion lu Nicarasua In July 1987 br

culula Macores and urlando luant lulntan shich diases

GIPAT for 1to failure.

GUERs Fiu'e ona secount adalla

certala mistakes

and irles to Justlly others.

It must bo borro

In SInO CDER GUERRERO LE a lODE C1IA

---

## Page 26

14-00000

-2-

communist, anti-somoza revolutionary.

TV. Paally and relatives

Nile: Ofella Chacon

ET. ElOY GUERRIRO SAntLAG ElOY LA BA+1-

sta pected

Communiet, says joel ta comunist.

Somoza, hus spent tine to fall.

JOse t. GUiRERO Custillo, resident of Lear

(DOI: 1955)

Personal 1a

DOB: 12 Agril 1914

POB:

Leon, Nicaragus

Nationality: NICArAGUAN

Languages:

Spanish and Engilah

Religion:

Ртоїчєвся попе

cuucation: 2 coursas firat yenr las

Photo:

Avallablo In Eloiraphic Register

Physical deacription:

vI.

onerational Leads and Lines to subject for socrulteent

or beicction

Anikal knows him personally, was la contact olth m

in bexIco Lo March 1554.

VIl. Evaluation

.. In 1942 or 1917 (reported both ways) CUEPSINO Was expellod

Iron the soxican Communist prty (NO:) accordins to

candidate (but stropped), and sho sald that Guerue aigat

then to ancnatle to recruitmaat.

Appareatly no attempt

na nado to rocrult hin. He las bee: recorded throughout

the years since as an active Comuniot revolutionary sui

as exiled fron ilcaragua for revolutlonary actlvitles

Also In •1959 he vent to Cito and sas actr

Lare In pronarias sor the revolutionars poverent in all

Latin AMerICa.

no apparently eas vorides for Cuba 12

at the time of th alrilvo revolutionary alteupe sirinst

---

## Page 27

14-00000

d.s.

written

by Madarlaça (GINBURO"s paledo) attempto to

polat out reasona for its falluro.

Anotber dossent

written by Silvio layorka and orlando cunt bi, dorever.

"Andres" (GLERPEDO) for tta failuro.

pust still be in the good fraces ol the Cuban 1S, 11

ho is an arent in the

"Hijos de la Teapestad" and

sorres 55

"Interedlary" to tbe YLN, or renants which

may be reorganlaire.

It seens highly unlikely toas

GIARREDO would to receptive to elther secruitsent or

de loction.

Anucl knows hin personally and not with

his in Lexico In Narch 1964.

It would appear that

ANUCl could furniah more information about his

which would be helpial la as

There

is a report that CurRENo vas in licararia

clandeatinely In 1362.

se rould undoubtecly is

arrested chould be roturn there and als presence

discovered by the Nicaraguans.

HOTT:

Mola 1s pot a couplate target analyals and sbould not

no used as eucil.

---

