# 104-10178-10025

## Page 1

104-10178-10025]

mond,

• :

SECRET

Studio. Bi-ins"108

TO

Pp/adada

30 J275 154

03

FRON

SUBJECT:

: FI/STC/SPS

David Atlea Phillipe

¿, The results of this action are attached.

Attachrent:

Hemo did 30 Jul 5l.

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

SECURITE :AFORMATION

D$a M

18108998-4

8839

I/BR

then our setting

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"er.

1. 1U! 1954

10

AITENTION:

FRO::

Chief, Special Security

Division

40t16

He will work closely with PP/CTV office.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in the director's

Herorandan of lli February 1949, entitled

"Security and Operational

Clearances," a covert security clearance is granted for the covert

use of the Subject as described in your request set forth in

paragraph 1 above.

3. The Subject is not to represent hingell as, nor is he

to be represented as, an employee of CiA.

I Your attention is called to the fact tat a covert seczity

clearance does not constitute conplete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-9.

Therefore, if you shoald desire at a late.

date to change the status or use of this individual, a request

for clearance to cover any proposed charge should be submitted to

this office.

This clearance becomes

invalid in the event the Subject's

services are not utilized within 60 days of the date of this

memorandur.

FOR THE SCURITY OFFICER, CIA:

Podut M. Curringhand

robert il. Cunningne

en Sita:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

W.91?1

1o6:io8.58

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

Date 30 July 1951

jes

C

TO

ATTENTION:

: Chief

• kH

FROM

: FI/ STC/SPB

SUBJECT:

David ALIAS FITtIrS

The action checked below conceraine subject of tase memorandia;

hereby cancelled:

a. Operational Clearance No. - ZEROES DATED Ill Jan 52 and 12 Ap 511

8. Provisional Operational

Clearance No.

c. Covert Security Clearance dated

¿. Covert None Check dated

e. Other

2.

This cancellation action is taken because of:

a. Memorandum dated

23 til 512

b.

Termination of Project

--

c. Removal of Subject from Project_

d. Other

Before Subject can be used operationally in the future, it will be

necessary to furnish an up-to-date clearance request to STC/SPB.

TWITTALS

F0E 195; 32-62

SECRET

1a9

-

---

## Page 4

CLEARANCE REQUEST

FROM

Chief, Speclal Security Dirision, 1590

Stal? C/SFR

SUBJECT: N0.-1

1-8142

8 40698

0A16_23 JulY 325%

and attemons an effoctod

abre 12 / ril JS, Ms21 on cancolled wiren Ce

Chrracter of Case:

_ PROJ.

2. CiA indices check requirod in advanco-

3. Project name:

Not cited

4: Proposed country of assignment:.

5.

-Y03--N0-7

An stated la attachad Mamo.

Contemplated type of contract or

employment agreement (see C.F.R. 14.1)

6. Scope and nature of use or activity:

See attached.

See attached.

% Subject's cover:

8. Present whereabouts and occupation of Subject:

9.

Surested guide. of 185 investigation: U.S. Cort.:

_Commercial

10. Special coverage degired in investigation:

1l. Almitazion, 1f any, on investigation:

12. Subjact aware of Agency interest--

13. Subject awars of pending investigation-

14. subject briefed on "eover" story to be used in investigation----Yes-No---

15. Probablo nestigative, contact noned of "cover story subject mill nao;

If not, state reason.

. 16.

Return attached FRQ Part I--

-B1og. Data----with resulta

P your action

17.

18. Remaris: SIC/SPB (had) (bas BOs) been adrised if Green List Initiated

Investi ratite Raporta attached.

AMITIALS

705895 58-80

SECRET

1*1

ac

---

