# 104-10193-10076

## Page 1

104-10193-10076

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HLADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTER ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUBER/VOLUME:

HARVEY WILLIAM K

: 0P. FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

PERSONAL * UNRELATED TIME PERIOD

MATERIAL

• DATE

RECEIVED

/ г.

15 AUGi2

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

DAN HARDLAY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAT

Hardwang

NO. DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED

FRON THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA ILADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSISSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUTE:

DP FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

"ROOM:

PORSONAL Y UNRELATES TRE PORIE

ATTERIAL

DATE

RECEIVED

15.PG?1

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NANE)

DAN NARDUAL

SIGNATURE OF. REVIEWING OFFICIAL.

Handway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 3

So Y018 71:13

i sue joe.

W. Harvey, C.I.A. Aide, Dead;

Linked to Anti-Castro Plotting

had a preen natio

A the me of his death, forl

?л'.

•riditor

tral Intelligence Agency group-Babbs-ifernll Fublishing Com-

set up ln the 19s0's to plan the pany.

removal. of fhrign loader'hy!

No was buried Saturday nt

means including assasination. South

• Cemetery in Danville,

died of a deart

aitäck last'use. nest'ed Indianapolis

He

Wruneiday in an Indianapols is survived by his mie, Clara

hospital.

(Grace, a daughter, Sally, and à

Mr.

Harvey, who was 60 son, James D. Harvey

years did.

was said in have

been in charge of the agency's

efforts against Prime Minister

Fidel Casem of Cuba. He was

among. 10 aRents whose iden

Ilities

were

disclosed

by

the

|Scmate Select Committee on In-

Melligence after an investigation

in 1075 of alleged assassination

¡plois by the United States:

William E. Colby, then Duec.

¡tor of Cuntral Intelligence, had

argued that disclosure

of the

would

put

then in peopurdy of retalialion

•by

"irrational groups."

Mr. Harvey testified. before

the Senate

committed

that he

had heen told by superiors that

the Castor assasination plot had

been aproved at the

highest

levels of the government,

Bard

that he had discussed the el.

forts with his immedinte super-

ior, Richard Helms,

who later

became director of the agency.

Mr. Harvey moved to Indian-

apolis

in

1969 after

retiring

from the agency, where he had.

worked for 22 years. He worked

for the Federal Bureau of Inves-

tigation from 1940 to 1947.

---

## Page 4

EXZi4

13 FEB 1968

Mi.

Willam King Harvey

23 West Irving Street

Chovy Chase, Maryland 200i5

Dear Bill.

I am sorry that due to a busy schedule and my

absence for several days during the Christmas holi-

days I didn't have an opportunily to see you prior to

your retirement at the end of the year.

Red White has told me of his visit with you,

and I am particularly appreciative of your expres-

aion of continued loyalty to the Agency and your

offer to be óf analotance should an appropriate

occasion ariae.

I extend to you, personally and afficially, my

sincere approciation for the important work you

have done and my warment hopes that you will find

full enjoymont in the yoare ahead.

Sincerely.

Richard Helms

Director

OP/BSD/RB/ MJRoper:jac

Rewritten:ExDir:abo

Distribution:

0 - Adse

1 • ER

1 - C/EAB/OS

1 - D/ Pers

I - RB

(Concurred in by C/EAB/OS on 8 Jan 68)

NOTE: Covert correspondence

---

## Page 5

Mise Million also liarray:

Chevy Chase, dary lead 20015

Joar Lill:

•As you redes lie cod of your achis cross

and colleagura la antine jou cortlaued theches.

end antalaction in your balitorari.

You have duen uriolleged do luca lle chilleage

courco allasting pile and anticlicion to you.

May i usiend to you, perconcily and cificially.

have done ans dug burritat bogus that you sil fiod

Enll enjoynient la tus years chanc.

¿laceroly.

3lreclos

Distribution:

O- Lcuressco

1 - EDCI

1 - 11

1 - C/LAB/CS

•D/Pers

Originator:.

Director of Forsoni

1::

Coscar:

C/2Au/35

1 - 1B Rescer

OF/BSD/AD/: Tovertise (25 Dererber 1923)

#NOT: Covert correspondence.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBIR

051164

NATURE OF MASORTEL ACTION

366.771

Retirerent. -Ch fetirement, ter

(voluntar?

N 10, 99

4.0U708

@ ORGANILATIONAL'DESIGNATIONS

DDP/EUR

Development Complement

II POSITION PIE

Ops Officer

I A SCHEDURE SCHEDURE S SEE. ARE)

EFFECTIVE DATE RIQUESTED

MONTA

12 4 31 1 57

YE ad

NO CHARDRABLE

3136-1186

10 IUCATION ON OPFICIAL STATIONA

Wash', D. C.

!?, POSITION NUMBER,

IS COSTPATERIAL SERIES

9997

•tO GRADE AND STEP

GS

16 REMARKS

012.01

18 1

sir. Harvey is not reconnended fur the Agency Reserve List.

DA 7 PREFARIO

25 Recester 1957.

3 CATGONY DI EMPOTAINT

Segular

•233

BJ. CASER SERVICE DESIGMATIOA

18 SALATY DE RATE

$ 27055

IDA SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICLAL

DARE SIGNED

18B

SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE AFFROZING OFFICER

ACTION 120 EMPLOT

21

CODE

45

(O0t

16.

11e 811885

0A,

v8.

OFFICE CODING

ARMABIT

SPACE BLOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

122

1E3 INTEGRE

24 NDOTES. / 25

DATE OF BIRTH

4048

(00E

600€

LiA SATE OF GRADE

DA

va.

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

20

7 on 836

imP8la

3-8307

RETIEEMENT DATE

CobE

731

SEPARATION

DATA COCE

32 CONFECTION, CANCELLATION DATA

TIPE

DA.

EOD DATA

35. NET PIPERIE

coot

N3A SIRY

C34»

date:.

I COS tEST

PAZe 1149

Tuate lanGoar

600e

39.

CODE

0-- marte

FIGLA, MEBLIN INSURANCE

MANTA SAS CODE

co0d

2-- 10P1

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERHENT SERVICE

B- RO FEINOUS SETTKA

2- BALAS A SENTICE (LESS TARA D TEARS)

fabe

***'GERAL LAA DATA

ACRIA EXECUTIO COOL

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

8.10

POSITION CONTADY CERTIFIÇATIN

• ОВ

APPROVAL

4-7-68

1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

ABC8SE0 IS ASSIS POR

DAJE SIGNES

27

то.

QGTE OF LEI

33 SECURHT

460 #0.

3A SEX

8O SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

NO LAX STATE 6O0E

DATE

APPROVEL

2840

1967

w9:90n.00/564909

---

## Page 7

SECRET

13 DEL

Робл.

NEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Renuedi for Voluntary Retirement :

Willar K. Harvey

1. This memorandum submito a recommendation for your approval;

thla recommendation la containad in paragraph 1.

"2. Mr. Willlam Ko Harvey, GS-18, Operationa Olficer, European

Divelon, Clandestine Services, has applied for voluntary retirement under

the provisions of Headquerters Regulation 20-501, lo Do olfoclive 30 Decom-

be: 1967.

3...MI.. Harvey has been deolgnated a participant in tho (JA Retirement

and Dianbility Syatein and meeta the technical roguirements for voluntary re-

tirement under the System. He Is 52 years old with over 26 years of Federal

Service. Ibla servire includes ovar 20 years with the Agency of which more

than 9 years were la quallying servico overseas. The CLA Retirement Board

bas rocommended that bis application for voluntary retirement be approved.

I endorse this recommendation.

4. It lo recommended that you approve the voluntary rettrement of

dix. Hilllas K. Harvey under the provleions of Headquartera Regulation

20-501.

rated will this ilie

Princinf

...:

+* 1

a turnt d declares.

Emmett D. Echola

Directo: of Personnel

...і.

?....ii

The recemmendation contained ln paragrapis 4 le approved:

Tradits

167 Riohard Folea

Director of Central Intelligence

15 DEC 196?

Date

SECRET

---

## Page 8

ta-noided

n.:?

Distributlon:

D - Feturn io D/Poro C 13 3 25 PH'67

- DDCI

"S ER SN6RUNT:00 Cou-e

l • D/ Pers

= OPF

jiindlirs

1 - RB Soft file (w/hold)

1 = RE Reader

OP/FSD/RE./MJRoper:flh (7 December 1967)

Retyped: OP/TSD/RDeFelice:jaa (11 December 1967)

F0-2d

Pe tlhll dito tlinrdliniil.

"-etoes:

idttte wie "fer;sisc

r1?.n:

itcei lorteltde dlldndteddl intfudgirse dt

/.61.111::1

pcaoad ?i"?

eelceueeud re eerdG Ge0 196 Getterel togê doee ge tilde da. 1

1e tlowdee d uee Gel wdlet Gilhtlin.

.üt÷e61

?!!: ?"

•tapo, reiio teod rai'!.

Lrthndi9eGEilE!"i

itri: .e

•Ve."

-eoe Goeie? Gel de GGGo GL GEdD ÄöoG0ET5à

dàr:it

Mio.-0;

uarmhm ii eid udo deetdon dclede daitácondc Tesos

ate tt ri .

•odanr l1ae jahes geet'

lan bni crido: ti tos

_1105

p:: 1171°

riten melG9 eea We0 de MddeldtD Wdt

sixa.

em Cer ?..1.0

an sobilaa ior

toneisi da

Ih:15

alo drdd Galjt leligiolle Lnsyoii

..1191609'-1DE

licale y pcea tei tà..

•jittlV"

Meeue, 1lurdddliedeline iol Diir.

DEC 16

29: H4: 8T U1

".ICC:

-a?."!

flauiti t"puiid

:eae ii trushal peilsinsia

l tetle D enoltii diie Heutr

PECKEL

".sa?

L--

DE-9200 jon' iikt

---

## Page 9

: 4-0000

Quined since

---

## Page 10

14-00000

#05- 79050501

=22oal aai?

i8

25,

890.

Cpe if/reis

Ceniv: 225-1"

{0D. 365t43

sas ocklkeg

10

.nutei

1. u5 rotin"

ne.in

:=0

oi ce notin i

---

## Page 11

NAME

HARVEY WILLIAM N

co:.

01

*EARNINGS

NORMAL

• OTHER

199200

SECRET

(WHEN MILLED TAY

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

EMPLOYEE NO

PAY PERIOD DATE

.061-164 ÷

04/09: 05/00

ROLL

01

DESCRIPTION

COST CENTEE

1361188

ВтА

000

REG SAL

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

CD

41

53

54

57

6 1

75

DEDUCTIONS

NORMAL

35014

1102

1000

750

1374

12948.

OTHER

DESCRIPTION

FITAX 1

INS WEAPA

INS. FEGLI

INS UALIC

nAZA HOSP

2

AGY HET

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA

pp

OT/HRS.HT/HRSIND/HeRS.

RATE

O/T-HT AMT

N/D AMOUNT

REFUNO DUE FROM EMPLOYEE

CD

NORMAL

OTHER

REMARKS:

CD

NET PAY

NORMAL

99 147012

PAID AT MOS

147012

OTHER

FORM 8385

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

188 Are l allied lag

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SARIAL ALIMAGEN

PURE D PERSONMEL ACTION

HARVEY, WILLIAM N

CONIEKSION EROM

o. Pione

STATUS.

v1o ce

ci To'v

XX:

• OAJANHATAINAL DILONATIONS

DDP/EUR

DETER TITLE Dis Conf

HOUTHERN REGION

STATION

DEEICE UF TUL-CHIEF- (UNASSIGNEDI

11 POSITION MTAE

POSITION NUMERI

HE DE STATION

16 SAASSNRATION SCHEDULE (69. LB, 815.)

00H0

10 GRADE AND'STEP

13 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

$136.091

1156-05

18=1.

18. REMANNE

DATE PRIPANIO

27 labruary: 1007

• CATEGORY OF LAMOFAINT

* A:

THAN

.02.

1:25

07

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

„NO

MAAGEABI

7130-1267

1O, SO CATION OF OMFACIAL SYATION...

REGULAR

Personainly

1J CARTER SERVICE DISIONATION

17 SALART OR RATE

3 252890

ce payroll

IRA JONATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

TUB: SIGNATURE OF CARELA SERVICE APPROVING OPPICER

ACTION SO IMPION

100E

OSAKE COOIMS

MUMERIC

sec.

BYE EXPIRES

ca

29

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

BELOW FOR EXCRUSIVE USE

28 S14110M

C008

23

INTEGRIE

C00&

114

11221

RETIREMINI DATA

cOpe

SIPARATION

DATA CODE

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

24

M0Q145/25

DATE OF DIATN

DATE Of GRAD

4474 1:29:424.9

J0 SURY COMP DATE

DA

30

1- 188

S.- MONE

v*

ГУРЕ

61/31/6-

CORRICTION / CANCELLARICH DATA

NO.

DA

EOD DATA

37

LONG COMP DATE

Ya.

CAR, RESY

PROS, T4HP

CAREER CATEGORY

Tcope

• FAGLE/MEALTH INSURANCE

MEALIM INS. CODE

To 984,

8- 10 PT

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERAMENT SERVICE

CODe

ON NO PRITIOUS SARVICE

8- BRIAN NO SURVICE (115S PHAN S TEARS)

I BRIAN IN SEBVICE (MORE PMAN 3 TEARSI

1S POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

88 LEAVE CAT

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

PORA EXECUTED | COOK

NO PAINIMATIONS

-TIS

2. 10

"OMA ERECUTED

3-15-67

SO OP APPROVAL

Pas Balt

1152

USE PREVIQUS EDITION

SECRET

DATE SIGNED

DATE OF 1E1

тя.

SECURITY

14 SEE

1O SOCIAL SECURITY NO

COvE

NO TAX STATE COOR

DATE APPROVED

Spent)

GROUP

AND ON LASTICANON

(8)

---

## Page 13

SECRET

DATE PRIPARED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

I SERIAL NUABER

27 Fchruary 1007

001104

I MATURE 0P ME

#SONAH ACTION

LARVEY MILLIANS

REASSIGNMENI

@ FUNDS

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

8r 124162

P-'FINAN'TALIANALYSIS

NO. CARROEABLE

çt 10 v.

vióai

xxxL°r00

REGULAR

Triested!

D. OIGANIZALIONAL DISIONAIIONS

7130-1186.

10 LOCATION DE OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/EUR

eS/CE DEVELORMENT COMPLEMENT

11. POSITION TILE

12 POSITION NUMBER

NASON UGTON A DA CARE SEANCE DESAMATION

UPS OFFICER

A. CIASSIPICATION SCHEDULE (63, 1.A, 886.)

TiS OCCUPATIONAI SERES

÷512

GS

0130.0L

18. REMARKS FrOm:

DEFYEUK/FF/

9997

O. GRADE AND 512P

of.

18-1

Subject departed the Station

21 March 1900.

T7 SALARY OR RATE

+ 74-7849

24i74

s 25,520

Other.

security

: 3035. 3/15-%>

X4:3116167

REQLESTINO DEFICIA

DATE SIGNED

I8B SENATURE OF CARIER SERV

i APPROVING OAFICER

CATE SIGNED

18 ACTOR 20 EMPLOY /31

800f

MIE (4P1811

ersonnel

SPACE

BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OH18 (00186

22 884110%

ALAMABIIIC

COOL

100€

T26. HDO18S

1008

DATE OF BIRIN

44-!

1./.

SPECIAL

RETIREMIMT DATA

RIFERINCE

Ti-1K

CODE

MPARATION

32 CORRITION • CAMCELLALION DATA

BATA CODE

Tres

DA.

13-8091

27

CAME Of LEI

18.

ra

34 SER

410 #2.

€OD DATA

38 YET. PRIFEBINCE

C008

0- nost

J6 SERY COMB

so...

DA.

8- 10 P1

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERMIRENT SERVICE

O- NO PRIDIOUS SEAVILE

J~ BA/RE IN SITTICA (LESS THAN I PILES)

J- HOLAR IN SEVKE MORE INAN 3 TEARS)

AS, FOSITION CONTROL CERTNICAIION

35 1:

(OMP DATE

40 SOLIAL SHEETITE HO

it BESt

FiRe tear

CODE 10-WAIYLE

MEALTH INS. CODE

48 LEAVE CAT

CODE

FEDERAL TAN DATA

TORA FRECUTTO] CODE

NO. TAE FREMPIIONS

$- 111

2-10

SAl Taa Bald

PORA PRECUIIO

cove

OP APPROVAL

BATE APPROVED

5-15-61

Ra Brat

PCRM 1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP

ANE PLAIM LATE

(4)

---

## Page 14

4-00001

Galor of Station,

Director of Pos

I LOGAGE -

- Mutirsiation ol Dooleration as a Participant in

Action: No Indicated

Rati: Book Mispatch 5096 & 01ãü - 7596

lo. You have boon found to be qualifiod as a parilciuant in the liganiza-

don Rotiramon and Elsability jystem and have been do designated alioctivo

al Nureaber 1jbj.

2. Alihough such denignallen undor present statutes lo viewad tavurably

by most porsona, the rogulation governin, thie retirement ayatem gives the

Individual the right to appeal ouch a datermination id he doema the design

tion adverse to hia best interesto. In order that this technical requirement

may bo sadaliod, you aro heresy nollied of your right lo appoal, An appoal

with reasons therelute must be recelvod in Headquartero withis 60 daya of

the date of this dispatch or acceptance of designation will be assumod. Any

questiona that you may have in conneciion with your designation lat cannot

be anavarod by pelorsing to 1ooi Disparch 5096 should be forwarded :o dead.

3.

i o belleve ibat tha boneiite of the rganization kotirement oyster

aro superior to the benarito of the Civil service kettremen: "ystem. tow

bisher annuity andor the Civil jervice syston, bocause of this, the pulicy

decision has beon mado that a carticipant in the t santaation system who

would roceive a bigher annuity under the civil service ayatem may, not later

than ono year prior to bie rotiromant, apply to be romoved from cur system

and (randferred to the Civil service system.

Thus, you abould sot anticivate

this continiency an a facior in deciding wether you rejard your dostgaation

as a participant adverse to your seat iatoresto,

21 DEC 1955

15 DEC 1965

OIRS

7774

---

## Page 15

SECRET

DATE PEPARTO

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERLAL ANARBE

061104

HARVEY, WILLIANK.

•I NATURE OE PERSONNEL ACTION

DESIGENTION IS FIGTICIPAT IN THE CI

RETIRE ENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Prov

viad

CE TO v

iCo.

DANANDA

TONAL DISHGRLATHES

16 forazie: 1965

* EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

3 CAPPONEY OF ENRONMEN

11. 21 05.

/ COST•CENTER, NO CHARGE.

ABLE

6156-20T

1O LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Firmonitendy'

Pu SS -035 303=- 203•

DDP/LT

STITION

OFFICE OF THE CHIAF

11: POSITION. TITLE

12 POSITION NUMMER

1Y CAREER SE

FIRST SECRETIRY

CHIEF OF SCITION

IA. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDUIE (GIS. R.B. eA:J

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SUMES

FSR

• G'S

0136.35

0212

1S. GRADE AND STEP

01

18

?

D

17 SALART OR RATE

24,254

$ 25.382

REMARKS

EL-PLOYE WIL. IS NOTIFIED EY

DISPATCE FICH IS DIROCIOR OF PERSOCRE 0E ITS

DESIGIATION AID OF HIS RIGHT OF LEPER DO TIE DIRECIOS OF CEMEIL INFLINEZE.

I co to 0P/BSD/RB

L, CC

to CCo

1 co. to Finarco throych CCs

I8A

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

1188 SIGNATURE DE CAREER SERVICE APPROVIVE OFFICER

18 N01 1965

SPACE

BELOW

FOR

EXCUISITE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. 'ACTION |20 EMPLOY

CODE

(00t

28

BIE EXPIRES

Wish,

OLFICE C00186

STATION

32 NTIRE:

HOGTES 125

DATE OF BIRTH

APHABETIC

BA TATE ON GRADE

(OD$

COME

CODE

NO

но.

78.

+0E1

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30

36533

RETIREMENT DATA

131

1-686

Da Ta (20€

13/26

32 CORBECTIOR CARCERLATION DATA

ve

ra.

05 / 17/50

Has brat

1-107

100.)

TYPE

FOD DATA

15. DET PREFEMENCE

COOF

34 SERV

то

COMP. DETE

37. LONG

COM?. DATE

/ 38

va.

1.4449

"ARELA CATEGORY

¡ CODE

COCE

19. MAINLA

REGU MENTO INSURANTE

MEALTH INES, 6008

1 - 3 71.

Te 19 91

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS GOVIRHMENT SENTICE DAYA

A- HO PREVIOUS SERVICE

1-HO BALAN IN SIRVICE

DO BREAN IN SETTICE (BORS THIN S TEARS)

25. POSITION CONTROL CERTIPCATION

9209 THAR

42 LEAVE CA!

CODE

43

FEDERAL TRI CATA

POEM FARCITED COOP

INO. TAI ELEAPTIONS

StaTE "er fA"a

¡PORA PRECUPED

dO OF APPROVAL

1:2565.

6-69 1152

USE PREVIONS FORTIORA

SECRET

¡ DATE SANNED

ma?.

: 32

EAT OF LI

=a.

=I

SCOTTY

#0.

59

36 SEX

I SAT AMPROVED

18,

40N8 8ECLA5SI 2:8*0P

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

Filled in

FEET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

28 MARCH 1963

061164

HARVEY, WILLIAM *.

NATURE OF PERSONNEL

ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

A-ÉFFECTIVE DATE REQUESYLO D, 'CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

FLINDS

у то ч;

CE TO Y

OAGANSIATIONAL

DESIGNATIONS

CC / Co 10 CE

6 1 30|63

Y. COST CCATER'NO: CHANCE-

ABLE

3136-6300-1014

10.

LOCATION. OF OFFICIAL STATION

LEGAL 'AUTHORITY (COMPlOTOdD,

8.P8924

of personnel)

DDP. WE

STATION

THE CHIEF

POSITION NUMBER

CAREER

SEAVICE

DESIGNATION

CHIEF OF STATION

CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, RB, '*IC.)

OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0262

18.

GRADE AND STEP

D

87.

SALARY OR RATE

GS

REMARKS

FROM:

DDP

0136.01

18

20,000

REN#/OFFICE OF THE CHIEF/0662.

trang 1

APPOINTMENT MEMO TO DCI SENT ON 27 MARCH 1963.

259 SENT TO MEDICS ON

15 MARCH 1963.

19 412.1

REQUEST ALL NECESSARY CLEARANCES BE GRANTED PRIOR TO 1 JUNE 1963.

COPIES SENT TO FINANCE AND SECURITY.

Qi i

06/27/63

SIGNATURE OF CARETA SERVICE APPROVING, DATE SIGNED

SPACE HELON JOH

EXCLUSIVE USE

TE, ACTION TEE ENGIE E, JET

F2.37A7%

C035

cros

31

739912

FIHE UFFICE OF PERSONNE

28. ATE AN ATS

done wed

421301

LUE

• 2§8.259547 DATA

'DEFEREG'E

?

NO.

Cata +.c

Da.

y в.

35.

3f Stay, Cores.

HONE

36. CAFECH CATEGORY

CAF/RESA

coor

PEGASTEND

32. BOOGECT 06/:863:109:08

3 091315

THEr

=..

ча.

FOD DATA

PEnne l+0194149191636

:95f

Melte cut tues

136, SER

150. 80.

37. лікс.

IMP, GATE

: 0o.

1, 110tt CAr

CODE

• SEE'AL SEERITYNO.

1++r5

PREDICUS SESFRBMLNT SERVICE DATA

I corr

- Us ParMOUS SERVICE

firss Tres 3 YRS)

- BRINE IN SEROICE LCRE

34A8 3 725)

AS, POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

ASCEOMI

TAS DATA

CODE

no, pan, tararipos

A3. TARTSTATE CON

15 BE NOD.

2. 40

2=

FORM 1152

8. 63

OBSOLETE

OBSOLUTE PESSOUS 400T90

46. 0.P. APFROVAL

3. at Band first lew

SECRET

GROUP 1

DATE APPROVED

441

ExCL

---

## Page 17

SECRET

112 JUN 20S

CO/P. 3.2:

¿rerutire Registry

HEHORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

SUS ECT

Deputy Director (Plans)

- Appointment of Mr.

Bian 8. 1

Harvey

Chief of Station,

1.

This 1s to make a matter of written record the

appointment of Mr.

Harvey as Chief of Station,I

effective on or about 30 June 1963. Mr. Harvey will replace

Mr. Francis I. G. Coleman, who is scheduled to attend

the

nert session

of the National War College. Verbal approval

was given by you and by the Director.

A biographic data sheet, including information

régarding his Agency experience and training, is attached.

Chief

Western Europe Division

Attachment

Biographic Profile (Part I)

CONCUR:

?: JUF: 1963

(Date)

APPISONED:

20 =

(Date)

SECRET

659

Ersides lie

that. 7.

---

## Page 18

ta-ender

CONFICENTAL g

22 May 1963

Mr. Willam K. Harvey Litt

Dear Bill,

I wish to express my real appreciation for the time you

have devoted to Agent Panel affairs. Your operational

experiénce and personal knowledge of many of the individual

staff agents and career agents have provided a sound basis

for your contributions to Panel decision's concerning their

promotions and reassignments. I look forward to the time.

after your overseas assignment, when we may have the

pleasure of your service in a similar capacity.

Sincerely,

w.

Chairman, CS Agent Panel

Bill, may I ach ine

myour hesad and cords

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET.

(Then Filled in')

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

RARYST, WILLIAM K.

86116d

Reassignent

•. FUNDS

to cr

C5. 70 v

CE TO CE

#GHAT 109$

Task Force W

Office of the Chief

10s0p8

bs arficer - CH

Kaof coon

IÇATICA SCHEDULE (OS, LA, otc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

REMARKS

PRA fouche duratton of Task Foroo W

DATE PRAPAArD

21 August 1962

ECTIVE DATE DiSESTED

CATEGORY 'OP EAPLOTHENT

Regular

(Completed dy

personnel)

3132 - 1000 - 1000

10.

LOCATION

OF-JEFICIAL STATION.

Washingtes, D.G.

112! POSITION MUMBIA

ID. CAREER DERVICE DESIGNATION

B4-662

GRADE

ЛАЮ ЗТЕФ

D

9.7.

SALARY OR RATE

18

18500

Louis Armstrong

SPICE BELOW

EFFECT 5005:

CODE

31

28.QIE ERRINES

CODE

83: A6MENT

REFERLACE

DATE SIGNED

8/2%62

488 .

SIGNATURE DE CAREER SERVICE APPANYING DATE SIGNED

$%s/62

FOR

EXCLUSIVE

USE

OF THE ÖFFICE UE PERSONNEL

22. STAT'ON

23,

GOOSE CASTE DES DATE CE SADE

15013

27.38°E CE 16

crot

Cr36

109 376

тя.

3t

SER GIC 22.230E0709/226:0:4: 39:A

33. 5962119

810.80.

Tor. str

coor

EOD DATA

Встал

35. vêt

C004

PREFiniaci

à Siñn, 5700

Fe":

13: 100%

sop. Dalt

DA.

38. CARIER CAPECI9Y

CaDE

No. 50318, St:, 8199 80.

• 30?

. 16 p.

PREVIOUS CESSIVEN FERRICE DATA

11219054

SEAM FOES

cast

= sua seiz

LE AL'M 195 COOF

£O0E

A:. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

87.

FEDERA: TAS DA'A

Stall len cata

1со0e

starret

• 6685106

SENATE /20099

ON 168 STATE 6008

68g tad

*995}

2-99

49, POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATIO

16. 0.F. APPROVAL

as 25/62

Did Gone pot len

DATE APPROVED

19 angs-

1152

13X.

SECRET

---

## Page 20

Pre - 1959 Jerome

actims

lerone front

---

## Page 21

1d-0d0

SECRET

Pa Press

118809 8:02.:

BIOGRAPHIC PRCTILE (PANT ISOD: 15 JAN 1941

TWORTITE COUP TATE

Jis son 12150

- 2.5

UATIASA

AAR 1 1 AL

Remarried.

PIRINSINS)

03 68?

2

his start

ALIENSE

914745

.

•ASSEISAE"

TO PROTESSIONAL TEST DAI

• LARACUALL

• 3.

PATROPIER

1931-33

Danville Gozotta, Indiano - Repurior & Printor

1936-35. Trutana UnTv, TToonington - Publielty Hrlter (athlotles) fplY

1957 - 40

self-enployod. daysvilla

Kontucky - Attornoy-at-Law

1940-47

Dopt of Justice, for, ochure/rittsburgh, Pa - Spactal

Agent: &

Supurvisor/

ID. NON-CiA TOUCATiON

1933-37

Indiana Unir, Bloomington - LLB Guits Distinctions Law, Psych.

Philos, Journallom

17.

FOREIGN

LANGUAGE

(Larges,

Gurman - R,111gh; li,P, 5, U, Intor; Intorpret - Oct 1961

ROCHET

SPORSORED IRAINING

1903 Italian

POSITION

_9 OCCUCALIORAL COUL

Зор

T947

May:

1948

Duc

1948

Mar

1949

Uct

1949

Fob

1951

Dec

3951

Dcc

1052

Nov

1953

Dec

195.9

Jan

1956

May

1959

Oct

Jun

Jun

"un

Feb

Ucc

1959

1962-

1903

1965

1907

1967

Chict Stf-E

0p5

0f

Агой

ops

Chief

0f

Sep

1959

Ops

0f

0136.01

0136

. 0 1

[3

as0

0130

. 01

return

to

Hq

0830.01

chier

Sta

0136.01

0136

. 01

0130.05

Ops

0130.01

Rotirament (voluntary

20, DATE REVIESCO

ET. PROFTLE REVITOSO aY

22 SOn 19711

obs

8 • 57

1200 (PART 1) MAS PARANOUS

719

S15

16

1G

16

16

4 6

17

18

DI

Di

G00/F3S/Ch

TAT TUSEROTY

050/COPS/ris/UCh

foreigner

150/COPS/0oPC/DCh,forci

0G0/COPS/DCh

Ops

for

dinar

050/Ch Stf-C&ACh, Stf-D

Stall E

050/Ch

Plans

Staff

DUP/EE/Ger 11s/803/COB

C0E/620G00415/601/C00

DOP/Eg/GerSta/403/Cog

18

DOP/Ct, FI/D

18

18

D

DOF/Ch

18

D

Task gros

/COS

181

()

DOP/EUR/Dev Comp

CLAPDS)

F8.

WIRETIED

SECRET

DI

PROFILE

Bonn

Berlin

Hq

---

## Page 22

SECRET

SECTION A

to 141008

"(Lanes

Jarvey

B: OMFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chicf of Station

B. CHECK IMI TYPE OF APPÓINTMENT

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE SERIAL NUMDEN

001161

THAT, GENERAL

(8 trors

- W1lLtum

a DATE ON MINTH

5. 30 *

D.OBЛОE

9. 30,

: K.

13 Sept 1916

M

CS -18

T OFFIDIVOR OF ASSIONMENT O. CURTENT STATION

DDI/WH/L.

CHECK IX) TYPE OF REPOR:

TEMBONANY

ICiAL (SpeclY):

DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

¡B. REPORTINO PERIOG (FANS TO)

April Lgot. - 31 March 1965

SECTION. B

W' - Inok

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performanco ranges from wholly Inndoquore do allahtly less then solisfoctory. A eating in this caregary rogulros

posielvo romedial actor. The nature of tho action could rongo from counsoling, lo further taining. to placing or

probovor, to reasilenment or lo sopuration..

Describo action rakon or proposed in Soction C.

A - Adeans

Porformonce mooss all requiremants. le lo ontirely satisfactöry ond ls choractorined nolther ly dellélency nee

excellenco.

p - Proficient

$: Strong

O - Quispandina

Porformanco la moro than notisfoctory. Dostrod resules oro balng produced in a proficions mannori.

Performance ls choracterizod by excoptional: proficloncy:

Performance la so encopilonal In solotion so raguiromonte of the wort and lo comparison so the periormanco o

othors dolna similor work as to warrant speclal recognition

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to sis of the mose importon spocille durlos perlorned during the rating perlodi Insara caring lester which boss descrlbos sho

manner, In which employae performs EACH specile duty.

Considor ONLY affectivanoss In performanco ol shas dury.

All employaes

with supérelsory rasponsibiliios MUST bo colod on phalr obility so suporalso (indicalo number of amployano aupervinsi.

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. T

F A TINA

LETTER

Chief of Station,

0;

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

A TINO

LETTER

landles Station reintionnhip with Ambassador and Embassy and

...tae Base In

SPICIPIC DUTY NO. & :

„"1"

$

HATINO

LETTER

Supervises

CA. Progcom.

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. A

Engaged in reorioctation or Station FI Progran.

ETTE!

0

#PECIFIC DUTY NO, "

ETTE

it y

SPECIFIC DUTYND.&

A TIN

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Come to of speede duhing, bod chey loyed chich nfluence li feet polen a song pallor auch apar

ormance of spocille

job, cooperativeness, portinent personal trails or habies, on

sartlcular.ilmbrortons.or relents.

your knowledgo ol employee's overall performance during

the rating period,

aloco the lentor to l

the rating' bos corrosponding do tha natomont which mon accurately rollaces hia lovel ol porformance.

15 JUN 1965.

FORM 45 COSOLETE PREVIOUS FOITIONS.

SECRET

RATING

LETTER

---

## Page 23

1d-0n0d

SECRET

SECTION C.

NAKRATIVE COMMENTS

overal alamen songhog machine derped in outer poster being de prope mendateris shere let nitri te

armance.: Stato suggestion i made los Improismen ol wort parlorrione»..

on loreion longuage compotenco, il ronueditos surrent position,

Amplify @roxplaincoring@given.in Sacilan@ to-providibos

beglo foi determintng future personnel petion.

Manner ol partemance of monogèrol or duceynogy dieis mus be do sebad, 19

Mr. Harvey has conutnund to miner

the Arency"s activities idlingh the same

enthusiasm.and drive which clinictriad the description of his appronch to the

Station Chief role in his mist Nitricas Kenort.

In his efforts

to reorient the

Station's FI progran tovard vict-Onteliite

targets Mr. Hnrvey hna-devoted considemble cnerry to acjuiring the basic

intomation

needed for this tiok, This ha becn will reported nod the responsibilities for cirry

Ins out this shift In operatlonal apprich hnve bech precisely delegated..

It. 1o stil1

the results operablomilly but

"the roricntation his been will

Ized. As an carly indication of the triad tals 1u tiking, several succesaful wichnical

operations have been established which.nre well on target

To accomplish the objectiven of ti" CA responsibliities of the

Mr. Harvey has ncquired the most competent officors with this bighly apocollid 3k1ll

• and has staunchly supported their efforts to prosecute this program which remains cx-

tensive.. He has considerably improved the Station relotionship with Enbasay officers,

Including the Ambausador, by devoting fronter offort to this necessary phase of the

-Station Chief's role and

the Ambnoondor,

during a recent trip to Washington, made

special mention of the degree of.contldenée he hnd in the Station's reporting, and in

the extent to which it 'ho kopt him properly informed.

During the period under rivlow. Mi. Harvey neguired'a Deputy Station Chiel - for.

whose arrival be had waited more than 6 months.

I: has delegated general manngement

of the Station's activities to this orfloor, who has applied himself dilluently to

this task and the results have been promising.

•Mr. Harvey has been receptive to hcad-

quartera guidance, 1a extremont amue and taorough in replyide to ala correspondence.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF TMIS REPORT

DAT&

BIONATURE OF EMPLOVEE

Linploxie at Eicla Station

2.

MONTHS EMPLOYE

HAS BEEN

UNDER MY BUREAV

24

AY SUPERVISOR

TIP THIS REPORT HAS NOT DEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EX

DATE

2 June 1965

COMMENTS OF REVIETINO OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE ON SUPERWISOR

C/WE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE.

3 tune 6r

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ADDP

Thomas H. Koramessines

. SECRET

---

## Page 24

SECRET

William K. Harvey

Fitness, Report for Period 1 Apriü 1964 - 31 March 1965

Section C (cont'd)

Some administrative details, such as the reports on the performance of.

officers whose eynluation he was reluctant. to make, Mr. Harvey hn's bad

a tendency to postpone despite repeated efforts to provoke him lato

timely response.

I hnve rated Mr. Harvey's overall performance outstanding in

recognition of his superior supervisory ability, his unusual skill in

expressing his

views and his detemination to accomplish bis basic

objectives regaritless of the obstacles which he encounters.

The

Station. is complex, is engaged in sone highly senaitive operations which

must be guided with a otrong hand and by an officer.with a degree.of

professionalism which Mr. Horvey to vell able to supply as a résult of

his extensive operational experience.

SECRET

---

## Page 25

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE JENIAL MUNDEN

06216%

SECTIONA

(Lant).

HARVEY:

B: OF FICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chicf® or Station

CHECH (NI TYPE ÖF APPOÏNTMENT

(Firat)

Willion.

K.

GENERAL

8. DATE OF BIRTH

13 Sept 1916

M

T. OFF/DIUTAN OF ASSIONMENT

UDP/WE/

10. CHECK'INS

TIPE OF REPÓRT

BORADE.

8.30

GS-18

D

CURRENT STATION

I TEMPOrARY

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (Spo Inefructione - Section C)

A CASSIONMENT AUDENHISOR

REASHGNNENT EMPLOYRE

SPECIAL (Spacll):

19. DATE REFORT DUE IN O.D.

12. REFORTINO PERIOD (F'FOM (U)

1. Aprll 1965 - 27 September 1965

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porformance ronges from mholly triadequato lo slighely leas thon satisfacroe.

A rating in this corogery réquiros

positivo comedial actlon.

The nature of the action could conge from counsellig,

to further traintrig, lo placing on

probatión, lo rondigamont or to soporation. Doscribo dctlon rolion or proposod in Sociton C.

A • Adoquata

p . Prolleiont

$ • Strong

Performanco meota all roquiremonta, li la enliraly satislaciory and lo choractoriaed noithor by dellelency nos

oxcollance.

Porformonco la moro thor, sor slocpory. Desleod posules dre bolng producad'in o prollelaro monor.

Porlormance la choracterized by exceptional profletency..

O - Quistandina Performonco la so arcoptional in rolation to reguiremonts of the work and in comporison to the performanco of

othors doing similar work as to mariant apocial recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Liar up. to sia ol the most'important specifie durlos porformod during the roling porlod, Insert soling lemor which bens do scrlbos the

monner in which employeo pertorms EACH specifie duty.

Consider ONLY olloctlronoss in porformanco of that duty.

All employe0s

mth supervisor sesponsibilinda MUST bo ratod on phelr ability lo suporulso (indicato numbor of employada duporolado.

BRECHTIC DUTY NO. 1

RATING

Chief of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. '#

Base 1n

Hondles Station relationsbip with Ambassador and Embasay and the

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

A TINC

ETTE

Supervises CA Program.

#PECIPIC OUTY NO. A

FATINH

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI Program.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

SPECIFIC DUTT NO, O

A TIM

ETTE

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

LATIN

0

28.00T 19650

OBSOLETE pAsVIOuS EDITIONS.

SECRET

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

Pille. 1e9

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

pheie relationship lo

Stato suggestions modo ti improvamont ol mort portormanico:

Comment.

on lorolgo donguage ammetereo, d'roquirad for curreno po sirion.

Amplily or ouploin potings gire sá SocibAli smorido lo se

Donia lo desaminang la noo personal petion, Minnas ol pertormonco ol manogerlol or aupervindy durlos muse ba do scribed, 1

spellcoble.

My ratino al the performace uf this officer remains the sose as the

descripti ui his performance which 10' contained in hia fitness report

for perio eccias 31 March 1965.

SECTION D

DATE

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAYE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND E OF THIS REPORT

SIONATURE OF EMPLOVEE

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORY NAS NOY BE EN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

UNDEA MY SUPERY&

30

27 Septerie: 1965

Mr. Harvey is currently at his overscas post.

OPPICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Chict, WE Division

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMWANTS OF REVIENNE OFFICIAL

I concar in the evaluations given Mr. Harvey on duties No. 2, 3 and #.

I belleve dery io. '? could have been rated "outstanding" rather than "strong, "

with justification. I also think, however, that duty No. I, insolving the overall

administration and management of the Station and its personel, should more

appropriately be rated "proficient," or perhaps "strong."

ОДТН

21 October 1965

OFFICIAL PITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ADDP

Thomas S. Karamessines

SECRET

---

## Page 27

14-00000

hot dets?

Colored photograph removed this

date and forwarded with Blographic

Frofile to Mr. McCone via ?.

I wH/Fore.

Mr •

clorred; with Mr. Gene

stevens,

Chlof, Ts Branch, POD/CP, the remoral

of picture.

0P/Fon/CAB

•5E-250% FQS

Ext. 7771

.....

Dads as friendie 55030 20t

---

## Page 28

1d-0n0d

SECRET

When folking kos!

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

A0.ODIE

N0110H

"THEY WILLIAN"

RETIRURENT VOLUNTARY UNDER TRE EDA

ALTRINI

AND ORABILITY SYSTEM

FUNDS

VrOY

CE 10 V

CE TO CR

* ORGANIIATRINAL DES LATE'INS

• FORESTLE DATI

& CAPINTO DE EUROYMENT

121.5052

5138011600000/

1D INCATAMECE DAPHIAL STATION

REUULAR.

# CSC DE OINIE LEGAL AUTHORITE

Fib. £3-043

SET. 233

DOP/EUN

•DEVELCEMENT COMPLEMENT

11. POSITION TITLE

CFS OFFICER

IS DECUPATCONE SERIES

CS

2138.01

I2 POSITION NUTRIE

9997

DO GRADE AND STED

IS

ITS METICE SIGNATION

D

I SALARY OR RATE

27055

IB НЕМАЛКЬ

CHE,CE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

28 19-1-9909

25 MATE OF BIRTH

•I DATE OF GRADE

4030€

A me 199

45

Z8 NTE EXPIRES

18

MICHENCE

TETIPEMENT DATA

coce

SIGARATIOA

Cait COUt

DUS LIE

32 Cueraba

4009

IS VET PREFERENCE

5355

TE WAS FOMP DAlE

IN IONG COME DATE; DE CARDER CATEGORY

EDO DAT.

cong

600l

39

cove

PEGG': HEALTH ASURANCE

3 +4-29

1.494

CODE

PREVIOUS CINNA DO SEA WENT SERVICE

O NET P9182S 199MY

No so Ad d 1441.

& 0028 3 Site t 70449 186,

1 8042 ANANT 5048 489,

rewo

I BECKIED

FEDERAL TAN DATA

ritt

CAN HIRE O

SIGNATURE OR OIDER AUREN CATION

. *=

POSTED

O7 DATE OF TEN

100

CURITY

RES NO

10 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE TAN DATA

FORA

S-da

1150

lisa Previous

::::

•SECRET

PlW

Enraded trom outomera

Whon Filed on;

---

## Page 29

ta-inden

HITA SALART SCHENULES

OF PL: 90-2'6

TÖ AUtCaTTY nE CeT aS aevlnEn

1y THE

CIA

AS AGENDEDO AVE A-DCI DIRECTIVE CATEO B OCTOUER 1962;

ACT OF

1949.

EFFECTIVE UATE ÖF PAY ADJUSTHETTE S CGTOBER

1967

NAME

HARVEY WILLIAM

SERIAL ORGN. FUNOS GR-STEP

061154

007

..C5

GS 18 1

OLD

SALARY

$25 , 890

SALARY

$27 • 055

---

## Page 30

•SECRET

(When Faird ta

pda MAR 62

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2 NamE (1A57.71857M10018)

061164

HARVEY WILLIAM K

BATHRE DE PERSONHEL ACTION

CONVERSION FRON

PONDS

STATUS

• 10 88

‹$ 10 #

€$ 10

P. CRCAMIZATIONAL DISIGRATIONE

EFFECTIBE BATE

3 CA1I6O8T 01. EMPLOYMENT

,.0. 10%

Tal,

102 | 25.167

REGULAR

inangal Aaclyis Ho.

Chargestio IN 156 OR OTHER LEGAL ANYMORITY

7136 1186 0000

10 COCAITIN DE OFFICEAR STATION

50 USE 403 J

DOF/EUR

DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

II. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

TE CERSSIFICATION SCMEDULE (6S, 1B, ol.)

1S. OSCUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

10136.01

18. REMARXS

OTHER

WASH. , D.C.

WASHI.,

D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER.

9997

16 GRADE AND STEP

118 1

1D SERVICE DESIGHATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

25890

19 ACTION: 29

Empler.| 81.

Corte

OFFICE COB:S,

56.

18

ID. 417 EMPIRE

44997

28 SPECIA8

REFERENCE

SPACE RELOW FOR

EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNUL

87. 11Af10#

INTEGREE

28, H441r2: 3 DAlE OF BIRTH

¡ 76. DATE OF GRADE

600E

CODE

EV8

175013

• RETIREMEMS DATA

i 11

SEPARALION

09.

13116

38 CCRRECTINN LASCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

28. DATE OF 1E1

48.

SECURITY

138 SEX

REO RO

EOD DATA

1S PES. PREFEREMCE

5234

JO. SEND COMP. DATE

4о

37 1086

COMP

DATE

та.

38 CAREER CATEGORY

16.0

H850

11v9+

SCRE

PEGLE / MEALTH INSURANCE

WAIVER

HEALTH INS CODE

10 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

COCE

PREVICUS COPULIAN COY-ARMEN? SEIVRE

• NO PARVIOUS SEATIN

NO BAEAN IN SERTICA

3. DREAR IM BRANCE DISS PADA A ANY!

3 - B0EA= 19 SEANICE I0R'n1 1uS

TER TEAVE CAT; 41

CODE

FEDERAL TRI DATA

DUMURTECUTIO

STATE TAX DATA

1008

SIGNATURE OR THEM AUTHETICATION

POSTED! i

FCAU

5-éd

1130

Use Previous

Exticion

SECRET EL

GHOUPT

declassilisation

When Fate bel

---

## Page 31

-16 MAR 62

B. SEMIAL HUMMIN

06 1 164

HARILY WILLIÄM K

8. MATURE OF PEASONMES ACTICA

REASSIGNMEMT

• 10

FUNDg

%. ORGAMIIATIONAL DESIGNATION%

SECRET

(Whon' Fulod In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

to' c

LE 10 CP

A ESPECRIVE DATE

но.

k12 1 24167

REGULAR

8: Errancial doeirus la (Bergeable

I 8. (SE CE OINER LEGAL AUTMORITY

7136 1186 0000| 50 USE 403 J

10. LOCATION OR OFFICIAL STATION.

DDP/EUR

DEVELOPNENT COMMPLEMENT

18. POSITION. TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14. CLASSOFICATION SEMEDULE (65, 18, 88e)

15. OLEUPATIONAL SERIES

G3

0136.01

18. REMARKS

OTHER

WASH.,

12 POSITION NUMBER

o.c.

19997

16. GRADE AND SIEP

118

18. SENTICE DISICHATION

D

17 SALARI OR RATE

25390

1.:

19: ACTION 10. Employ

CODE

37

18

28. MTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USI: OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEI

11.

OFFICE CODING

72 STATICH ; 23. INTEGREE

24 Hdgies

15 DATE OF BIRTH

ALANADETIC

CODE

CODE

Code

DA

44237 | EUR

75013

108

: 13116

;20.1921112

119.

RETIREMERI DATA

31 SEPARATION

52. CORDECTION; CANGELLATION DATA

DESERENCE

COUR

DATA CODE

Irre

DA

26 DATE OF GRADE

27 DATE OF LES

YR.

33 SECURITY

#EO MO

34. SEX

ROD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

SENd LEMP

DATE | 17. LOME COMP. DATE, JO CARFER CATIGORY

100

TODE

RESt

CODE!

FEGLO / HEALTH INSUBANCE

. wAIvER

NIALINIAS CGOE

10• SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GRLERESENT SEBYKE

0. NO PARSIOUS INTREE

41 LEAVE CAT: 43

CODE

BALAX 19 SADOVA CASS 14A0 S VAS,

209v

FEDERAL TAE DATA

SCAMELICUTED,

"OSs

NO TAS ETEMPTIONS

• 188

2. No

STAlE TAX DATA

PONS-ELECUTED

CODE

д.185

8.405

NO TAX BIATECODE

EXE MI

SIGNAIURE CA OTIER AUT-ENTICATION

POSTaD

3.11-67

L

5.68

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

EBCUP T

feebled tram satoaabt

tear shita: es

---

## Page 32

HPAY ANJUSTMENT IN

ACCORDANCE WITH

PUNQUAIT

TO AUTHORITY

OF

P'CI

SALAKY

SCHEDULES rEfL

89-504

AS

PROVICED IN THE

CIA ACT OF

1949,

AS AMENDEDO AND A-DOI DIRECTIVE VATFO & OÇTOGEE 1902."

• EFFECTIVE DATE OF DAY ADJUSTMEVT: 3 JULY 1506

NAVE

HARVEY WILLIAMK

SENIAL ONGN, FUNUS GA-STEN

CLD

SALARY

061164

50 630 CF

GS 18 1

$25. 382

SALARY

$25,890

---

## Page 33

"PAY ARJUSTMEAT IN ACCORDANCE MITA SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL -9-301

PURSUAAT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI

AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1948;

AS ANEADED, AND A-DCI POLICE DIDICTIVE DATES 8 ICTOBER 1912."

FFFECTIVE DATE OF DAY ADJUSTHENTI 10 OCTCOER 1905

NAME

WADVEY HILLIANK

SERIAL ORGA, FUNDS GROSTER

ULO

SALARY

041164 50 €J0

•GS 18 1 524,507

NEW

SALARY

$25•382

---

## Page 34

JGD :

19 NOV. 65

SECRET

(When Filled In)

0D/pirs

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION,

1. SERIAL HUMBIR

2. HAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

061164

- HARVEY WILLIAM K

I MATURE OF PEASONNEL ACTION:

DESIGNATION AS FARTICIPANT IN CIA

RETIREMENT AND

DISABILITY SYSTEM

• 10.68

FUNDS

IF io co:

• ORGAMIZATIONAL DESIGMATIONS

DOP/WE :

OFFICE OF THE

CHIEF

18. POSITION TITLE

CHIEF OF STATION

18. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (65, 18, 01s.)

7S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.05

REMARKE

• EFFECTIVE DATE

11

211.65

8. COSA• CENTER NO. CHARGEANLE

.J.S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOTMENT

6136 1267•0000

PO, LOCATION GE OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

#: ESC OE OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

PL 88-643

SECT.

203

12- POSITION KUMBER

1J. SERVICE DESIGNATION

0262

16. GRADE AND STEP

D

12. SALARY OR RATE

181

25382

EMPLOYEE WILL BE NOTIFIED BY DISPATCH, FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF

THIS DESIGNATION AND

INTELLIGENCE.

OF HIS RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

.1D. ACTION 20. Employ.

CODE•

Cods"

28

10

I& MIE EXPIBES

OFFICE CODING

NUMERIC

50630

79. SPECIAL

30

REFERENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFTICE OF PERSONNEL

12. STATION | 23. INTEGREE.

24. Hegire | 25. DATE OF BIRTM

26 DATE OF GRADE

ALPHADETIC

CODE

CODE

Code

Da

36533

3

09 13116 05117159

BETIREMENT DATA

CODE

31.

SEPARAIION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

TYPE

HO

.ca.

EOD DATA

8Y BALE OF BEI

TA.

05. 17|59

33 SECURITY

. 34 SEX

REQ. MO

CSE

FICA

HONE

JS. VET. PREFERENCE

COOK

3A SERY COMP DATE

2

LONG COMP, DATE

38 CAREER

CATEGORY

cope

CAR

PROV

RESE

!EMP

FEGLI / HEALTN INSURANCE

NEALTN INS CODE

SO SOCIAL SECURITY NO

renE

1:10%

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

42. LEAVE CAT

FEDERAL TAX DATA

CODE

8. NO PRETIQUE SERNICE

CODE

FORM ELECUTEDI

cont

NO SAGAR IN BRAMICE

8 , BARAK IS BERVICE (LESS THAN I NAS!

9- BARAN EN SERVICE IMORE THAN S YRS,

1.185

NO ThE fREUPTIONS

FORM ERECUTED

.-0a9

p. Ht

STATE TAY DATA

CODE NO TAX STATECODE

EXEMP.

SIGNA: URE OX CIFER AUT' ENTICALION

FORM

11-62

1150•

Use Previous.

Edition

SECRET

FOSTED

11-2665-17

GROUP T

Enslußed len annuar

sowingradiag and

deciesalication

When Filled Sin

L

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filied In!

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

pes

09016865

SERIAL NUMBER

& MAA (LAST VI8S8, MTAI)

HARUFY WILLIAM A

•J MATURE OF-PERSONNIL ACTION-

SERIES CODF ADJUSTHENT

FUNDS.

• t0 y

y 10 08

e io di

I CAMENT I FOLUTENT

00107/63

& COST CENTEE NO CHARGEABIE

3190 1267 0000

TOCATOR OF OFFICIAL-STATION

I CED ONE UGA AUTHORTY

IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

6136.05

2. POSITION MUNSEE

0201

16 GRADY ARD STIP

18

IS CURBER SERVICE DESIGRATION

TRY SALARY OR RATE

TA. REMARKS

POSTED

1, 62165°

SIGNATURE DR OTPER /'HENTICITI DA

920

Form

1-43

11 50B

MFG 1 63

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

(€ $81

(When Filled in)

---

## Page 36

1d-0d0

RZR: 28 JUNE 63

DOF

D: SERIAL NUMBER

I NAME (LAST-VIRST-MIDDLE)

061164

HARVEŸ WILLIAM. K

3. RATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

• 10' y

FONDS

• 10 60

e 10.08

&. ORCANIZATIONAL DESIGHATIONS

DOP WE

OFFTCE OF THE CHIEF

II. POSITION TITLE

CHIEF. OF STATION

88. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE 1GS, 18, 414.1

15 OCCUP.

AL SERIES

GS

0136.01

WASH., D.C:

SECRET

(When Fillod lo)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I UNWE DATELES. CATEGORY OF IMPROVEME

06 / 30|53

RECULAR

TE COST GENTLE NO GHARGEARLE

E ISE CE OTHER LEGAL AUTNERITY

0136.6300 1014

5A USC 403 J.

TO. TOLATION OF OFFICIAL SPATION

12. POSITION MUMBEI

0262

18, GRADE AND SIEP

181

AJ SENTICE DESICHA ION

D

17, SALARY OR RATE

20000

I9 ACTION: 20. Employ

CODE

Code

37

10

89 NTE EXPIRES

26.

OFFICE CODING

62630 WE

29 SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEI

32 STATICN

23. INTEGREE

14. Heets | 8S DATE, OF BIRTH

CODE

Code

ол

36533

JETIRENEMI DAYA

CODE

JI SCPARATION

DATA CODE

3

Prae

09 13

11.6

17. CORRTCTION CANTELLATION DETA

26. DATE DE GRADE

zad.

27 DATE OF LED

ол.

93. SECURITY

REO NO

38 SEX

EOD DATA

3S. VET. PREFEREME

COOK

16 SERV. COMP DATE

37. LONG COMP. DAVE

J8 CAREEN CATEGORY

CODE

19

FECLO / WEALTH INSURASCE

wAIvER

MALIMIAS CODE

#O SOCIAL JECURITY NO.

PREVIOUS GOVERNMEHT SERVICE DATA

12. LEAVE CAT

PROV

| 43

CODE

COOK

VEDINAL TAX DATA

Cou*

NO TAX CLEMPTIONS

Г44.

FORM EOE:+180

• 4N BEAN 3Y SERBILE

*- BREAK IN BRAVIER NOTE TRANS IESS

•04EQM 19 GAMAICH 00168 7770 + 431

STATE TAX DATA

CORE TO TAX STATE CODE

41906799N

• YES

8. N0

2. 40

SIGNATURE OR OTHEN AUTHENTICATION

FOSTED

107/02/6370K

FORM 1ISO

Ise Previou

Edition

SECRET

281363

18.00 1

Đ9990710 97 818

(When Filed In)!

ts.,

L

---

## Page 37

ta-tandon

IN ACCEPACE ANTH THE PRO ISIONS DE PUELIC LA

SCI MEUORAVOUK DATEC

TAUJUST 125A - SALARY

" is ADjUsTEd is Foltons.

SERIAL ORON FUNDS GREST SAGARY AEST SALERY

HARVEY KILLIANK

SAIIAL AIIOO

CF 13 1

$9A500

1A1

:20000

---

## Page 38

PSC

12 SEPT 62

SECRET

(Whon Filled la)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OXF

8. SIMLAL HUMBLA

8. MAME (LA31.8195Y MIDDLE)'

068164

HARVEY WILLIAM K

3 HATREE D8 PERSONALL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT (CORRECTION)

FUNDS

CB. TO Y

8 10'68

I TO

8, EFFECTIVE DATE

I 1 CATEGORY OF EMPLOTMENT

но.

00 1. 081.62

7. COST CENTER NO CWARGEANIA

31:32 1000:1000

80. LOCATION DE CIFIRIAL STATION

REGULAR

8: CIC ON OTKER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50 USC 403 J

DOP

TASK FORCE W

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

1В. РОЗТЮМ 11918

WASH., D.C.

18 POSITION NUMBER,

18. CAREER SERVICE DESIGHATION

OPS OFFICER

.CH.

9A. FLASSIPICATION SENEDULE (65, RB. 81e)

13. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0662

3A GRADE AND STEP

D

SALARY O& RATE

GS

0136.01

118

18500

THIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE DATE 06/08/62 TO SHOW THE

CLASSIFICATION, GRADE, STEP, & SALARY WHICH WERE

PREVIOUSLY OMITTED.

18 ACTION; 20

Employ

1008

Lode

57

10

CH. HIE ZIPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

21.

OFFICE CODING

77. STATION 23 INTEGREE

24 Mogirs.

¡ 83 DATE OF BIRTH

ALPHANEIIG

SODE

CODE

Code

6,1100

TO SPECIAL

REFERENCE

TFW

75013

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

DATA CODE

Jo. DATE OF GRADE

, *о:

pe.

22 GATE OF 1E0

ROME

rit.

PREFERENCE

COSE

36 SERV. COMP DALE

37. LONG. COMP, DATE

BA.

TIPE

37

38. CAREER

CATEGORY

COOE

SAR

09 | 13 16

CORRECTION; CAN

ICELLATION DATA

DA

EOD DATA

106

30

NaDe

08, 62

FEGIS / HEALIN INSURANCE

MRALPH 1N8 CODE

33. SECURITY

REQ NO.

SE SEX

10 SUCIAL SECURITY NO.

10 $T.

PREVIOUS GOVERNMEMT SERVICE DATA

¡O, NO PRADIOUS SERVICE

• - NO BREAN IN SERVICE

BRIAN 3R SORYICH LESS THAY TTHST

BALAN IN BRAVICE IMOHE IMAN I YAS!

18s8m

47.

cose

48. LEAVE CAY. | 47.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORMFIRCUTED, CODE

44.

BRGMPTIONS

STATE LAY DATA

CODE MU TAX STATECODE

HA1.4

2. 10

1.988

8 - 50

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

64744

hub 1112103

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

6B0UP 1

faciatre ison actewabt

(When Filled In)

642-888

DeR$

HITO

---

## Page 39

1. SET. RE HENDED

SECRET

(Wars Find ta)

i NOTIFICATION O. PERSONNEL ACTION

8 NAME (LAST 41839-0010066)

HARVEY KILLIC K

• to

REASSIGNENT

A. FIDE

JUSATLIATICRAL DESIGHATIONS

у I0 68

& TO

LE SOTECTIVE DARE .

_I'S CATEGORT OF EMPLOYMENT

=→:

ya.

0109003

P. 8019 CRATER NO. CNANGEABLE

BCOLLAR

AL ESC OR OTHER LEGAL ANTHORITY

1000.1009

PR LOCATION OF OSFICIAL STATION

TASK FORCE W

I8. POSITICH TILE

SA CLRSSIFICATION SCHEDULE (6S, ID, A6.)

IB REMARKS

2.6.

IX POSITION NUMBER

9G52

16. GRADE AND STEP

1S. OCCUPATIOMAL SERIES

1136.01

ID CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATIOH-

19 SALARY ON BATE

19500

ACTA20: 10 Eragtoy

CoDE

Corde

27 .

PAL ATE ERPIdES

21.

OFFICE (O019G

29 SPECIAL

REFERENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE ISE OF THE OFFICE OF TERSONNEL

A2. STATION / 23. INTEGREE

ALPUABETIG

CODE

CODE,

?86. DATE OF GRADE

fade

DA

1о.

75313

10.

RETIBEBEMY DATA

J8. SEPARATADA

DATA CODE

; 32

CORDICTION/CANCELLATION DATA

30=8

Da.

EOD

DATA

yn.

T17 DATE OF 1ED

DA

33 SECURITY

чка мо.

34. 58X

IS VEI PREFERINCE

1578

J8 SERY. COMP DATE

17.1045

COMP

DATE

JA. CARTER CATTIGAY.

+ 39

CODE

FEGLI/ NEARIN INSURANCE

MAALTH INS COOL

8O SOCIAL SECURITY NO

11.

PREVIOUS SOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

87. LEAVE CAT

CODE

SAR

Pany

43

dis =

+0-790

SEDERAL YAI BATA

SOSE

• . NO BRRAN IN BRAVICE

IS SOONERS SERVICE (ESS +468 31931

19. BR8AN I9 MENUICE MORE THAT STASI

STATE TAX DATA

core

YORE PRICUTED

STAFA NM44

1. YES

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATIÓN

FOT»

- 4-62

1130

Uno Provtous

Edition

SOCRET

8/31/62 280

POSTED

4ks/62 Kaud

1x566888 Iras antanalit

(When Filled In)

18-98)

::

Dungs

---

## Page 40

14-00000

IN ACCOPRANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PO Le 86-568 AND DCS MEMO DATED

1 AUGUST 19580 SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

50

NAME

SERIAL

ORGN

OLD SALARY

NEW SALARY

DI HARVEY WILLIAM K

561164

41 09 65-18 1

$17,500

. $18 * 500

IS/

'EMMETT D.. ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

---

## Page 41

461523

SECRET

Cilana lived tal

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PAS:

1O AUGUST 1960

1. Sorial Na

2. Noma' (Lost. Fira.Middlo)

•Mo

Da..

561164

1d Vor. Prel

15. Sox

¡Codo

J6 CS- FOD

Mo.!

HARVEY WILLIAM K

07 1 13 115

5 P4-1

10 P. 8

M

1

09

29

•|10

A0ms

11.

ILGLI

|12.

LCD

Y!.

47

SCO

ESC Remit 19. CSC Or Other Logol Auchorty.

Mo. I Do.

Yr.

Yes. 1

Code

Mo

Dos-1; Codo

• Da..

Mr.

1'2

No. 8

Mo.

1-50 USCA 403:2

No-2

102

29)

Yo% - 1

Code

No. 8

12

14. Orizuninstichal Designations.

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Codo

15. Löco:

D: Utteral Station

Station Codo

DOP FI STAFF

DIVISION D•

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

16. Dept. - ToJ

J17. Position Title

Dept

..1

Code

USild - 3

Fron

• 5

OPS OFFICER CHIEF

21. Grade & Step, 82. Salary Or Rato

83. SD

18

T* 18500

2109

WASHO, D. C.

18. Position No:

175013

N9 Sorv. 80. Occup. Sorios

27. Nature Of Action

Codo

a72

181. Duo 01 Grado /25.

Mo.

Du.

psi

Ÿr.

NAs.

05/17/59

xx | XX 1.XX

ACTION

Elt. Date

Type Ot Eagloyee

Co.

"Yr.

0836.01

83. Appropriation Numbor

0127 1003 1000

Codo. 30.

Separaton Dawa

CONVERSION TO PERMANENT

SUPERGRADE RANK

31. Organisational Designalons

07 1 27 160

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

132. Location Of Olficial Station

Station Codo

DOP

FI STAFF

DIVISION D

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

33. Dopt. - Frela

134. Position Titlo

Dopt

¡Code

UStid . 3

Fran

11

OPS OFFICER CHIEF

38. Grade A Stao 39. Solary Cir Rato

40. SD

4109

WASH. ,

35.

sition No.

.75013

36. Sorv. 37. Occup. Surios

0872

GS

143/ Appreprialion Numbor

0136,01

41. Neu Ol Grada / 42

Mo.

Ye.

181

18500

05/12/59

XX/ XXXX 1123.1003.1000

• THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE ON 27 JULY 1960 APPROVED. YOUR PERMANENT

• GRADE AS GS 18.

2.24.00 wit

FORM By 1150g

a: 8-94.11

SECRET

(4)

---

## Page 42

Pre. 1960

Percomelations

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SCRET

(Then Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SCRIAL NUMBER.

061164

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Lain)

(Fire)

HARVEY

Bi OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chief of station

P CHECK IN! TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

X.

CAREER.

MEDIAVE

TEMPORARY

CATHER-DROVISIONAL (SAr tiTUcilma • Sectlon C)

DORCIAL (SPICIY):

1. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP.

GENERAL

(MIddles

2. OATE OF-BIATH

8. GRADE

9. 30

K.

13 Sept 1916

M

GS-18

7. OFRIDIVIOR OF ASSIONMENT

B. CURRENTSTATION

DDP/WE/

10. CHECK IN) TYPE OF REPORT

ANNUAL

RHASHIONMENT UMOLOVIE

•BREÇIAL (Specify):

18. REPORTINO FERIOD (PrOM- 10)

1. April 1965 - 27 September 1965

SECTION B'

W'- Meals

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porformonce ranges from wholly Inodequato to illohtly less than satisfoctory,. A rating in this catagory requires

positive ramádial actiori. The nâsuro of the action quld ronge fom counseling, to luncher training, to placing on

probation, to sessignment or to sáporation.

Describo action takon; or proposed in Saction C.

A - Adeniais

Forlormance meris all requirementa. lo is entirely notisloctáry and la characterixed neither by dolicioncy moe

p - Proficiont

S - Seroinsi

Performance is more thems solofactory. Destrod rosulte ara being produçed in a proficions mannor.

Peiformonco is charcrorized by excoptional proflciency.

O - Quratariding

Performance 18 8u

• excoptional in rolarion to roquirements, of 'the work and in comperison to the porformance of

othere doing similar work os lo warront apocial recoonitión.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lís up to six of the most imporont spacitic dullos performed during the rating porlod. Insore coting lottor which boss describos sho

manner in which employao performs EACH specific duty.

Considor ONLY elfactiveness in performance of that duty.

All employoos

with

supervisory responsibilitiós MUST be rared on thoir obility lo superrisa (indicaro numbor ol employeds suparvinodo.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.!

RATING

Chief of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Fubasay and the

•ETTE

SPECIFIC OUTY NO.$

RATINO

LETTER

Supervises CA Prograz.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

CATTER

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI Program.

SPECIFIC DUTY MO. $

SATINA

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

A TIN

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

ake into account everything about to employee which Influencos hla effectiveness in his current positlon suel os pe

RATING

LETTER

ormance of specific dulles, productivity, conduce on job, cooperariveness: perrinant personal troits oe habies. an

articular, limitantons or rglenta. Based on your knowledgo ol employee's overall performance during the parina perio

oco the lestor in the roting bos corresponding lo the statoment which most occurately reflects his lovel el performones

25 OCT 1965 p

FORM 45

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EGITIONA

SECRET

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

NAKRATIVE COMMENTS

OFFiCE OF PERSCANEI

Stata suggestions: made for impriseient of work parlormanco.

on foreign languágo comperence; il required for current position. Amplify or explain rating's given in Soci

basia lor deformining futuro porsonnel action.. Manner el performance of managerial or supervisory dutios miss do desceibei, a

applicable:

WAIL FOUN

My rating of the performance of this officer remains the sane as the

description of his portormanse which is contained in his fitness report

for period ending 31 March 1965.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Witevien

2.

BY SUPERVISOR

ODER ME SURVISION

EE HAS BEE

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

30

Mr. Harvey is currently at his overseas post.

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIONGTURE

27 September 1965

Chief, is Division

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur in the evaluations gisen Mr. Harvey on duties No. 2, 3 and 4.

I believe duty No. 2 could have been rated "outstanding" rather than "strong, "

with justification. I also think, however, that dity No. I, involving the overall

administration and management of the Station and its personnel, should more

appropriately be rated "proficient, " or perhaps "strong. "

DATE

21 October 1965

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ADDP

TYPED OR FENCES NAVE NO SIGNATURE

Biomas H. Karanossines

SECRET

---

## Page 45

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE SEI

-06L64

NUMDER

SECTIONA

P. NAME

(Plest)

-William :

(Middle)

K.

Harvey

A. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chief of Station

D. CHECH (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CARIEN

REBERVE

TEMPORARY

(see inasructione - Section C)

GENERAL.**

2. DATE OF BIẠTH

TO. SEX

13. Sent 1916 M:

?. OFF/DIV/SR OF ASSiONMENT

DDP/WE/

107 CHECK (AT TYPE OF'RE PORT

A. GRADE.

18. 50

GS-18

CURRENT STATION

REASSIONMENT BUPEAVISOA

IMHASSIONMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specifp)s

I DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

sercial (spacity)s

13. REPORTINO PERIOD (Pro- 1o0)

1. April 1964 - 31 March 1965

SECTION B

# - Heak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance rangos from wholly Inadéquate to slightly lees than sorisfectory.

positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range fiom counsoling, to fürther traintag, to pleeing on

¡probotion, to reassignment' or to soporation. Describo actlontaken or proposed in Soction C.

A - Adesveto:

Performonce meets all réquirements. It is entirely notialoerory and is characterised nollior by deliciency no.

excollence.

P. - Proficlon!

§ • Stong

O • Questonding

Porformanco is mere than satisfactory. Desired resulra are being produced in a proficient manner.

Porformanco la chorocterisod by exceptiorial profleleney..

Performance Is so exceptlonal in reletion lo requirements of the work and in comparison to sha paiformanco of

others doing similer work as to warrent special lecognlilon.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Minnie to alect employee performs encipatios due on dir one Yet alvend. in performane or rags" dit employ des

manner in which employos performs EACH specific duty.

Consider ONLY aflacilvoness in performanco of that duty.

mith supervisory responsibililos MUST bo potod on their ability lo superviso (indicato number-ol imployees supersisodo.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATINC

LETTER

onsef of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTT NO. $

RATINO

LETTER

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Embassy and

Base in

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. a

Supervises CA Program-

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, A

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI Program.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 9

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

RATINA

LETTER

MA PING

LETTER

A JIA

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account evorything about the employee which influences hls olfactiveness in his current position such as por.

formance el specifie.

ditlos, productivity,, conduct on

ob, cooparativeness, partinent personal traits or habits, am

particular limitations or talenta.

Based on

jour knowledge, of employed's overall performance during the ratina perio

place the letter in the raring box corresponding to the salement which most accurotely reflects'tis lovel of performonco.

15 JUN 1965

FORM 45

OBsolETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

• SECRET

RATINI

LETTE

---

## Page 46

SECTION C

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Forning.: Comment

on tirergo language competence, il required for curions position. Amplity or enplain ratings gi

action d to provide bani

bosit for

determining lurure personnel action. Mannor of performonce of menc

applicable:

Harvey has continued to manage the Agency's activities in

i Pay ep the same

ertbusioom and drive which characterizod, the description.or his arprach t the

Stition Chiüf role In-his past Fitness Report.

114.311

In big efforts to reorient thel

Station's Fi progran tovard Sriet Satellite.

toreto Mr. Harvey bas devotiu considerable eners to hequiring the biste iaromation

uceded for this task.

Tais has been well reported nail the responsibilities for carry-

Is out this shift in öperntional approuch have been precisely delegated. It is still

early to assesa the résults operationally but the mortentation has been well orgän-

As an carly indiention of the trend this 1a tiklug, several successiul technica

opertions have been established which are woll' on turget.

To accomplish the abjectives of the CA responsibilities of thel

_Stition

Vr. Harvey has acguired the most competent officers with this highly srecialized skill

and has staunchly supported teir efforts to prosecute this prugin which renains ex

tenslve.

le has considerably Inproved the Station relationship with Embassy officers,

Including the Ambassador, by, devoting grenter effort to this necessary pause of the

Station Chief's role and the Abassador, during a recent triy to kishingting made

sprcial mention of the degree of confidence he and in the Station's reporting and 1a.

the extent to which it has kipt him properly. Informed.

During the period under review Mr. Harvey, acquired a puty Station Chlet - for

those arrival he had waited more than. 6 months.

He has delegated geueral management

or the Station's activitles to this officer, who has applied himself diligently to

this task and the results have been promising. Mi. Karvuy hau been receptive to head-

quitters guidance, do extre one and thoris da replying to dia correspondence.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

BIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Enoloves at hold Station

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

¿ June 1965

COUMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TIYLE OF SUPERVISOR

C/WE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

3. Just i

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

SECRET

---

## Page 47

1d-0n0d

SECRET

William Ko Harvey

Fitness Report for Perfod I Apr11 1964 - 31 March 1965

Section C (cont'a)

Sume administrative detalis, such as the réports ou the performance of

officers whose evaluation he was reluctant to make, Mr. Harvey has had

a tendency to postpone despito repeäted efforta to provoke him lato

timely reaponse:

I have rated Mr.

Harvej's overall performance outstonding 1a

recognition of his superior supervisory ability, his unusual skill in

expressing his views and his determintion to accomplish hia basic

objectives regardless.or: the obstacles which he encounters.

The L

Station 1J

complex, is engaged in some highly sensitive operations which

must be guided with a strong hand and by'nn officor with a degree of

professionaliam which Mr. Harvey to well able to supply as a result of

his extensive operational experience.

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SECRET

Men Felted Pa)i

BERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

T. N'AME

- Harvey

Willlam

A. OFFICIÁL POSITIÓN TITLI

Chief of Station,

K.

GENERAL.*

BATE OF BIRTH LESS

1916

061.164

ронов. 10

18%11

CURMENT SLATION

DDP/WE,

1O."CHÈCK IND TYPE OF'REFiNE!

TERPORARY

ÉM-PROVISIONAL (Sio Infilluna • Séctina C)

ALASSIGNMENT. BUg LeVISOR

IRASSiGNMENT ENTIONEE

11, DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

13. REPORTIE PERIOD, (FR

'1. March 1903 - 31 March 1964

SECTION 8

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performanco conjos trom wholly inadequote to sloghtly

A coting in pris category requiros

pastliva comedial action.

probotion, to reussignment ior la soporation.

The nature of the action could range lece counseled in sethio praining, to placing or

Describo action fader de peo

A - Adequate

P • Profleion!

$ - Strong

O - Qutstandina

Porlormance meats all requiremonis. it is enticoly sotislacrony andits clos

encollanco.

octeired neither by delicioney nee

Porformanco is more thun satinfactory. Desired posults one being penduçed is a proficiont mornor.

Porformanco is chorocroriaod by exceptional perficiency.

Performnanco is 30

others dice eople do tonion elviragenon he woe and in comperison sa sha porformanica it

- SPECIFIC DUTIES:

Lise up to six of the most imporeone spocilic düties performed during the roting period. Insert raring letter which boss describés the

in which amployed portorms EACH specific duty.

Cansider ONLY ellecriveness in partarance of chor duty.

mith supervisory rosponsibilities MUST bo rated on their obility lo supervise (ardscore sumser de employeos aupereiaost).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. I

SETYES

• Chief of Station;

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. 8.

Station

Base's.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, #

Station program.

RATING

LETTER

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Entassy and

S

LETTER

Supervises correspondence with headquarters ou entire complex

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

Supervises CA Program.

BRECIFIC DUTY NO. B

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. #

RATING

LETTER

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI progres.

RATING

LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

ake into arcount evorything about the employoe which influencos his effectinenaas in his cartons position such as po

formanco of spocille

durios, productiviry, conduct or

ad, cooperativoross, pertizont personal pairs or habits, en

verti: ular limitations or lalents, Based on

your knowledge el employed's orall perforors during the roting period

›loce she letter in the ratleg bos rorresponding to she srarecent which most accurately reflecte his lovel of parlormance

12 AUG 1964 :

45

OBSOLATE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

---

## Page 49

SECRET

BANNISTER-IN

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

dea alien sort gent mode improvis sint

PORtION ANTICE OF TENSCH

on fôreign language competories.

¡resurred for curont position. Amplify o

•phale relerionship to

for boling. Comment,,

as given inc

basis, for determining future sersinnol action. Mornor of performance of manageriál or

applicoble.

Mo Harvey's careerent of; the Acency's program in

Thns to date been charac-

erized by the forcefulnesa and drive which have guined for he 1

ments a reputation

for dynamiam

He has undertaken to ¿cort i invious assign

Station's

FI progin

toward soviet satellite targets and any delay in this reorientation has

been due fully to our inabilty for ad infotrative reasons to supply the personnel

he desires

on the tise schedule nich he would prefer.

although not toclination oriented touard the objectives of CA, he has pre-

served add guided ine cost complex CA progran In Western urope with understanding

and sktil. To accoplish this it has been necessary for Mr. Harvey to learn the intri-

casies of an extremely complex local politiesl situation.: Tais he has set about to do

with confidence.

His sccumulated experience in earlier assignmento has equipped

Mr. Herey with a delf assurance and confidence which I have rarely seen equalled in

any otter officer.

The continuance of ideal rclationships with the key Embassy of-

ficials in

ha's been sonewhat handicapped by the sudden death of the principal

officer in the Inbassy who was knowledgeable of our progranand the impossibility of

bringing into knowledge of our activity, the next lower level echelon of Embassy of

ficials for reasons bayond Mr. Harvey"s control.

This handicap has been overcome

over the past year sid Mr. Harvey 13 currently supervising extremoly sensitive poli

tical oferations and contacts to the satisfaction of the Ambassador und his headquarter:

He delegates resporisibilities skillfully to those offiders under hia command who

are best guallfled and by his own outstanding, performance,

which is always at its

best under heavy stress, he earns an intence loyalty from

these personnel. He denon-

strates cost-consclous.sss and outstanding supervisory ability.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY ENPLOYES

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A. D, AND C OF TMIS REPORT

DATE

27/2/65

MONTHS NILOYEE HAS BEE

UNDER ME SUDENTISION

12

DATE

THIS REPONT WA NOSE BOR TO EMPLOYEE, OVE EXPLANATION

Report 111 be shoun to employee upon return from overgeas.

OFPICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

C/WE

28 July 1964

COMMENTS OY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

17 AUE.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

Deputy Director for Plane

SECRET

---

## Page 50

SB

Thil

18 Apr1l 1963

2 9 APR

MENORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT&

Fitnoas Report - Mr. Willian Ke Harvey

1o This Fitness Report covers the period fron 1 April 1962 to

IS January 1963 during which Mr. Harvey was Chief, Task Force Wo

2. As a sendor officer in the Clandestine Services,

Mr. Harvey

has behind him a long record of professional accomplishment achieved

during toure in washington as well as seven years in Berlin. He g

thoroughly grounded in the tradecraft of clandestine activitles, and

bes brought to each and every assigment an intelligent, thorough,

and uncommonly conscientious approach

His qualities of leadership

are attested to by the loyalty and devotion of those colleagues who

have worked under his direction. If anything, there has tended to

•grow up salthin the Clandestine Sérvioes a coterie of officers who

have come to regard themselves as "Harvey men", a developnent which

ir. Harvey hirself has not encouraged but which demönstratee the

strong emphasis on first-class tradecraft which he has insisted upon

in each assigment.

3.

As Chief, Task Force W, Mr. Harvey had the task

of organizing

and developing a

large operational team devoted to the acquisition o1

intelligence and the handling of special operations directed at Cuba.

He was obliged to work within a corplicated bureaucratic franework, a

fact which made the clearing of actions & laborious' and time-consuming

Under his direction, the Task force grew substantially in

sive and in professional competence with the result that when the

Cuban crisis arrived in October intelligence assets nere in place to

male a significant contribution to the overall intelligence picture.

tr. Harvey devoted considerable ingenuity, long hours of personal

tire, and great eneray to this entorprise,

and, although certain

aspects of the intra-goverrmental coordination of the operations had

rough sledding, his net achievement was the establisment of an ef

sectire, going concern with momentum which curries on to the present.

L. MI. Harvey, after a strong performance as Chief, TFW,. has

been assigned as Chief of StationI

Jand is now preparing himself

to take over at that post in the coming months.

¡eriewing official

ischard Helms

Deruty Director (Plans)

notarameni

Thomas H. Karamessines

Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)

Read 23/4/31ukhd8

---

## Page 51

1d-0n0d

00tem

13 0C1: 1907

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT:

Willlam K. Harvey - Memorandum in lleu of

fitness report for period 30 March 1960 -

10 May 1962

It 1s difficult to prepare a fitness report on this

outstanding officer,

"largely because for's do not

lend them

selves to measuring

his many unique characteristics.

strengths are in professional knowledge and competence in

the operational field, in a toughness of mind and firmness

of attitude, while the latter in past years have moved him

into positions that were sometimes stronger than superior

officers, with a responsibility for adjustments necessary

in matters of policy in relation to Agency position in the

commnity; were able to handle easily, his own closeness to

policy positions. of the Agency within the U.S. community in

the last two years has found him with a real ability to

handle polley matters

and to adjust to necessities,

without

losing his firmness and his independence of thought.

He is sometimes accounted to be less than outgiving

of information about operational matters in which he is engaged,

yet it should be remembered that this characteristic has been

part and parcel of a sound operational attitude in his career.

He has a wide knowledge of personalities within the officer

coros of the DD/pand is for the most part a good selector of

officers

well.

to accomplish necessary tasks..

He handles people

He has a tremendous energy and

is a loyal officer both

to his superiors and to the purposes of the Clandestine Services

of CIA.

3.

He is

one

in the DD/P.

of the few distinctly outstanding officers

9?3 4 1660

W. Man of roque

W. LLOYD GORGE

Chief:

Foreign Intelligence..

---

## Page 52

14-00009

8 September 1960

MSMORANDUM IN LISU OF FITNESS REPORT

The following statement rolates to the performance of

Milliam K. Harvey, GS 18, Chief of FI, Division D.

This officer has held a series of responsible positions

in DD/P and its predecessor clandestine intelligence organiza

tion for well over ten years.

He excels in the field of

clandestine operatiois in general and especially so in that

phase of clandestine staff. and operational activities concerned

with the procurement, bandling and exploitation of highly

sensitive and critical intelligence

and operational materials.

His performance generally over the recent years has

proved him to be one of the outstanding officers of the DD/P

organization.

He has demonstrated clearly superior performance

both in staff responsibility at leadquarters and as Chief of

Ease in a very important field station where he was directly

engaged in supervising and carrying

on operations successfully

against targets of the highest priority.

In the period under review, June 1959 to. March 1960, he

took over and

directed functioning.of one of DD/Ps most

sensitive components charged with achievement by special

means against targets of the highest importance.

This included

carrying on negotiations and liaison with other components

of CIA and other Agecies and Departments of the U. S. Government

concerned with his scecial field.

His performance of this

responsibility in many respects has been outstanding.

continued to demonstrate his fitness to handle a wide range of

pcsitions of major responsibility within the clandestine service.

Among his outstanding characteristics.are: thorough

understanding of his profession and

ability to make this clear

to persons of high level

whose knowledge of the Clandestine

Services is general.

He

is

t11m,

tenacious, and on occasions

strongly aggressive

in pursuit of his point

of view.

While this

may sometimes make for difficulty

on the part of those in

higher echelons who wish to dispose of a

complicated problem

easily and quickly, this officer's persistence in carefully

---

## Page 53

14-00009

presenting his arguments and in holding to them until their

fact and logic prevail

or until policy

factors override,

makes

him a highly valuable asset to CIA.

Rater _

My lang

Revowor tichardbilis

Richard HeIms

• COPS •

2114.06.00

---

## Page 54

1d-0n0d

51.0

14 January 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION:

Chief, Records and Services Division

FROM.

Chief of Station, Gemany

SUBJECT:

Fitness Report • Willian K. Harvey

November 1957 - January 1959

lo Subject's ábilitles and performance are too generally known

to require detafled comment.

One of the

very senior officers In

KUDOVE he has been chief of what is probably

the largest and most.

productive overseas Base of KUBARK for approximately seven jears..

During this period Subject has been perconally responsible for a

number of operational successes, some of which have been of national

Importance.

Possessed of driving eners, determination and initla-

tive, he has fen equala in professional experlence and competence.

Throughout his administratlon.of the Baze he has established and.

maintained exceedingly high standards of accomplishment, discipline

and endeavor.

Subject's judgement, on occasion, is Impulsive and

proposals of

the Base have been, from time to time,

advanced "and

defended with greater vehemence and more exhaustively than the

occasion, .objectively.speaking, required. Subject's basic self-

discipline, good

sense and loyalty, hovever, have prevented any such

Incidents; which are in large measure manifestations of the highly

charged

atmosphere

and Insistent operational pressures of Berlin,

f'rora

developing into

serious triction vith the German Station or

dashington headquarters.

2.

It has been a pleasure to sere with this officer and,

during nis assignment he has consistently

rendered dedicated and

effective service of the very highest order.

Toled: 0.020

John A. Bross

CONCUR:

/ CHIEF, EE DIVISION

RIBAT.

SEGRET

до

---

## Page 55

Chel if Becosione

Relin

18 Juno 1959

NENORANDUM. FOR: Director of jersonncl

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Chiet, lecords and Services Division

Chief of Station, Germany

Fitness leport - willlan K. Harvey

January 1959 - Jure 1959

I have nothing to add

to the menorantum dated 14 January 1959.

Subject continues to render an

outstanding performance.

John A: Lioss

I certify that I have seen

this Fitness Report

uhh

Willtan k. Harvey

CONCUR:

Lance Thitchfuld

Chief, Eastern European Division

SECRE.

---

## Page 56

Pre

1959 Fitnes

ejorlo:

---

## Page 57

SECRET

'AND HFLATIONSHIP OF

CLAIM NUNDER

Son-James

168-0535

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Officlal Disabllity Clalm

File on the above named employee (or his dependen!*) for an illness;

injury, or death incurred on Z March 19ú7

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

PATE iN NOTICE

& January 1968

SIGRATURE SE BSO REPRESENTATIVE

1ạ- 3, 1076 usa

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

EDIPION.

SECRET

18-28-551

---

## Page 58

SECRET.

When Pilled In):

Haney

NAME ANO.!

41& 1A0 chatea

Willian

Self

68:0533

There is on file in the Benefite and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent") for an illness,

Injury, or death incurred on 30 July 1'464

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE OF NOTICE

3 January 1968

SIGNATURE OF SO REPRESENTATDVI

10-58 1076

USE

¡italica

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET

14028-291

---

## Page 59

1d-0d0d

SECRET

Hackey's Hilliam Ke

Fauchher-Sally

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Sertices Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death Incurred on 42 1967.

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

68-0531

DATE 'DE AOTICE

3 January 1823

10-5* 1076

DeFilice

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET

TAтA 49:

---

## Page 60

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 61

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 62

4-0000:

---

## Page 63

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 64

14-00000

---

## Page 65

SECRET

Can FinIN

QUALIFICATIONS SYSTEM RECORD CHANGE

ÄRELICANT CODING DATA

•10'

6-010: 19

3. NAME

MUST CONTAIN 20-DIGITS

2

DAVE

MO

CE BIRTH

DATE

CODED

MO

DA

THE DATA ABOVE BITEMS @'THAU SO WILL DE FILLEO IN

WHEN COOING AN APPLICANT FON THE FIRST TIME..

THIB

годн .13

IMEN ATTÄCHED TO FORM 1962, MASTEN QUALIFICA

"ONG CODING RECCRO.

LANGLAGE CODING CATA - FORM IslALE

1т. 10

2. EMPLOYEE: 110. 3. NAME:

3-LETTERS

IN LANGUAGE CATA COOR

DASE CODE

15.

9661164

HAR

413: 3.3

DATE SUBMITTED

DATE OF BIRTM

WHEN FORM IANE DENOTÉS NO LANGUAGE

He 182161929113115 a

THE FOLLOWING IN

ITEM I: "NOT LANGUAGE" (12-DIGITA)

LANGUAGE PREFICICNCY TEST DATA

.10

12. EMPLOYEE NO. 3. NAME

- SUDE

3-LETTERS

E. LANGUAGE DATA ULFORE

, «А Ді Н:

BASE CODE

IЕ3T

3

2

O. LANGUAG"

BASE

CODE

TEST

YR

7. DATE. OF TESI

NO

DATA FOR

ITEM 2 THAU 7 iS -

EXTRACTED

FROM

FoR 1273,

LANQUAGE PROFICIENCY AND

AWARDS DATA.

10

6.4

2. EMP/APPL

11O. 3

RAME

3-LETTERS

CODE #

TYPE

BASE

QUALIFICATIONS RECORD CHANGE

EATäR UNDER

"TYPE"

15.

ADDITION TO RECORD

CHANGE TO EXISTING RECORD

D

DELETION OF DATA FRON

EXISTING RECORD

CODE # 2

YR

BASE

2

YR

61

YR

*C.6, 1962a

SECRET

GROUP 1

O PICRASSURAN

(4.51)

---

## Page 66

14-00000

001164

SECRET

PART I-GENERAL

LANGUAGE DATA RECORD

P4 84:31

DATE DE

%.

13?

isi"

perinani

I HAVE NO PROFICHENCY

ANY

FOREIGA

DAGUAGI

PART 11-LANQUAGE ELENENTS

SECTION A.

Renting (40)

CAN

REAU

TEXTS OF ANY DIFFICULTY: OF A GENERAL NAPURE OR IN FIRLOS I AM FAMILIAR MITH, USING THE DICTIONARY

1. ONLY, RARELY.

READ TEXTS OF MOST GRADES OF DIFFICULIT, OF A GENERAL SAPUSE IN IN FIELOS I AM FAMILIAR WITH, USING IME

(2 OICTIONARY OCCASIONALLY.

3.

PACON RIO TENTS DR AVERAGE DIFFICULTY GRenApipargo réforenio, paterials, dec.), USING THE DiCTIONARY

S: I CAN ATAO SIMPLE TEXTS, BUCH AS STAFET SIGHS, NEASPAPER MEADLIDES. EICO, USING.THE DICTIONARY FREQUENTLY.

3.

I HAVE NO READING ADILITY IN THE LANGUAGE.

SECTION B.

Writing (41)

8.

I CAN WAITE PEASONAL LETTERS AND SIMILAR MATERIAL

WRITE FACTUAL

NARRATIVE

AND EXPOSITORY MATERIAL WITH

TA COMPLETE EATS NO RENE THE ONCTIONERN

• CAN

ERRORS. AN

MATIVE STYLE,

USIAG THE DICTIOMARY ONLY RARELY.

z.

CAY

WRITE PERSONAL

LETTERS

AND SIMILAR

SIMPLE MATEMIAL

WITH CAFIFTE

SUCCESS.

USING THE DICTIONART ONLY

RARELY.

ERRORS.

I CAN WRITE FACTUAL

NARRATIVE AND

EXPOSI:ORY MATERIAL

FEÉSONABLE CLARITY, MITH FED GRAMNATICAL

BUT IN A STYLE MAICH MAY NOP BF NATIVE.

USING

THE

COCASIONALLY.

1. CAN

BUT

WRITE

PERSONAL

DECRERSDAL SMOR ERNESTICAL AR

LA SILE MAT INOSY SOMEN LE BACONS

"SEE ONCE NG YEARNEY

OCCASIONALLY.

• CAN

BUT WITH HER

PERSONAL

LL822M4

AAD

"IMALAR

MANY GRANMATICAL

SIMPLE

ERRORS AND

IN A VERY FOREIGN

INCE LE SO CHEST TONEY NG OU DEANING

I CANNOT WRITE IN' TNE LANGUAGE.

SECTION C.

Pronuciation (42)

1. MY PRONUNCIATION IS NATIVE.

2.

BHILE NATIVES CAN DETECT AN ACCENT IN MY PRONUNCIATION THEY RADE. DE SISFICULTY UNDERSRANDING ME.

MY PRONINCIATIDN IS OBVIOUSLY FOREIGA, BUT ONLY RARELY CAUSES DIFSIGULTE FOR NATIVES TO UNDERSIANO.

A. MY PRONUNCIATION IS OCCASIONALLY DIFFICULT FOR NATIVES TO UNRERSTES".

•5.

I NAVE NO SMILE. IN PRONUNCIATION-

CONTINLE ON REVERSE SIDE

444C

SECRET

(H-89)

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SECTiON D.

NOT AND ACCURA

WHICH. !

CONTINUATION OF PART LANGUAGE ELEMENTS"

Spriaking (43)'

ALL PRACTICAL AND SOCIAL SITUATIUNSI I CONVÉRSE GRILLY-ARO IUÉGMATiCALLY..

IN MOST FILLOS

ovorarices.

¡ GETALONG QUITE ALLL PSITUATICAS DO DAILY LIFE AND PRAVEL AÑO CAN CONDUCT ROUTINE BUSINESS IN PARTiCULARPiELAS

A. I MANAGE iO GÉT ALONE IN THE MOST COMMON SITUATIONS Or DARLY LIN, ANO FRANCE,:

- 30..

1, MAVE NO ABILIPY TO USE ¡HE LANGUAGE IN ANY OF IME AROVE RESPIGTS."

SECTION E.

Unlerstmeling (79)

1.. NCADL!

.2.

INDUSTAND

MOST CHANCE,

CCAVIRGARIDN

THE RONO AARA "I

- PUNS.

3) THUNDERS ANDENSTAND MUCH CONVERSA

SO ION AN ON THE CANNON MENE ME MONTES, BOAT CRE CECTURNO ON THE TRUE.

4.

UMOLASTAAD

ON THE HAOTO CLOSE DEN MONTIER PORTS.'

'ACE COCTORE ANO ON THE PÉLEPHONES A LOCRMSTAMD SOME OR AMAS

• AS NOT BALE TO UNDEASIANO THE SPONGN LANGUAGE.

BEFORE CONTINUING - CHECK PART I1 TO ENSURE THAT YOU HAVE CIRCLED ONE NUMBER PER SECTION.

PART 11I-EXPERIENCE AS TRANSLATOR OR INTERPRETER (85)

I MAVE HAO EXPERIENCE AS A TRANSLATOR.

I HAVE HAD EXPERIENCE AS AN INTEPPHETER.

- Jensen lial

3.

BOTH OF THE ABOVE STATEMENTS APPLE.

%. NONE OF THE ABOVE STATEMENTS APPLY.

PART IV-CERTIFICATION

THAY

THE INFORMATIDA

THIS CERTIFICATION CONSTIPUTES MY

HELEN ABO

ABOVE

15 TAUE AND ACCUMATE

FOR A MAIMTENANCI

THE

BEST

ADARD PROVIDED

MANDLEDGI

I AM RECTORE UNDER

BELIEF.

THE, TERMS OF

REGULA: 10Y

NO.

25-115.

PAR.

16148.

des

BECOME

BEFORE!

ELIGIBLE FOR

AM

AWARD,

AND

1 UNDERSTAND THAT I MUST PASS AN

THAT

PEST

IHRESPECTIVE OF

THE DATE OF TESTING.

ANNUAL

MAIYTENANCE AMAROS WILL

CUMUL'ATIVE AS

OF IME ANNIVEASARY DATE OF

COMPLETING

THIS FORM.

SIGNED

ic /2/61

1468

Tilli dre it tires

647)

---

## Page 68

SECRET

(9700 F.1859 10)

VERIFIED RECOND OF OVERSEAS: SERVICE.

TO:

Office of Personnel, Statistical Regcritri Branch, ROOM 5.E 2506 Feauquarters

CF ENFLOYEE

EMPLOYEE SÉRIAL NO

iMIDDLE

OFFICE/COMPONENT

(Peine)

0 611644.

HASVEY

NILLIAN

50

INSTALCTIONS.

USE

APPROFRIATE

SPACE BELON DO REPORT

DATA FOR"

38A. 108 50

DASIC DATA.

RACER CANCERATION (PREATCOURTEN

"COOK"

C'ARECTION.

REPORT DATAS BY

NUMONA TON THE MONTH.

PCS PATES OF SERVICE.

ARRIVAL

COUNTRY

OMIT

CODE.

, 40-42

PCS (Basic).

CORRECTION

¡CANCELLATION

30- D8

92-81

36-37

30•90

3

03

21

66

565

TIPE OF, DATA

• DEPARTURE

TOY (Basil)

coor

CORdICTION

£7

CANCELLATION

19 0 14 P A

88-20

30-91

TOY PATES OF SERVICE

ACTURN

4828

•DAY

34-33

196-32

AREA(#)

TEA"

39.30

40. 48

SOURCE

SÉ RECORD DOCUMENT

TRAVEL VOUCHER

CABLE

DUTY STATUS ON TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORT

OTNER (Spocaly)

DOCUMENT RDESTIFICATION MO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

IN: 80062

22 March 1966

ПЕНАЯКЕ

PREPARED BY

CAL DIVISION

•T CIVISION

FORM

10-6e 145la sn

I.

REPORY

ANHOTATEZCM

SOURCE DOCUMENT

DATE 3/29/66

ABOVE DATA VERIFIED CORRECT.

BASED UPON SOURCE

DOCUMENT CATEO

SIGNATURE

SECRET

---

## Page 69

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 70

SECRET

(hen Pilled la)

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

TO:

Officé of Personne:, Sististical Reporting Branch, ROOM'5 E 256 Eeadquarters

COPLOrEE SERIAL NO:

LAST

MARE OF. EMPLOYEE.

FIRST.

8-84

OFFICE/COMPOMEAT:

• MINOR E.

29-88

061164

ELSISI, WILLIAN K.

50

INSTRUCTIONS

L'SE

AFPROPRIATE SPACE

what rard

SUAMISS19

BELOR TO DRUST DATA FOR EITHER PCS, ON. OW

SIC DATA.

швє* v0в

THR MONTH:

AND

COMPACTION.

CANARIA DOM OPTION SO MORE BATE CO US CO U

LAST IN

'S ONLO. FOR YEAR.

PCS DÁTES OF SERVICE,

ARRIVAL

COỌK

PCS (Dusic)

CODAXETION

CANCELLATION

=*- I*.

30-38

PRAR

$2-39

AND NT H

$4.33

01

DEFANYUHE

0 24

98-37

08

COUNTRY

OMIY

30-9#

66

365

TYPE OF DATA

DEPARTURE

TOY DATES OF SERVICE

RETURN

RHEARSA

TDY (Bseic)

CORAECTION

CANCELLATION

40.47

30-38

34 - 35

38-37

SOURCE OF RECORD DOCUMENT

THAVEL VOUCHEN

DISPATCH•

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND ATTENILACE REPORT

OINED (SpACiFy)

DOCUMERT ADENTIFICATION NO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

IN 26160

Is Jaño 1966

BIHAAES

PRIPAREO BY

10.8145l2 201710м

I REPORT ANNOTATED 01

PISTURCE DOCUMENT

ABOVE-DATA VERIFIED EDENT?.

BASED UPOR SOURCE

DOCUMLA: CIRSO

125 Jan. 1966

SEVICT

Erstuded Pot

14. 10)

---

## Page 71

14-00000

SECRET

abon Filled inj

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

TO:

Orfice of Peradtrel, Statistical Peporting Bränch, RooM 192 Curte Eati

NAVE OF EMPLOYEE

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NÖ.

LAST

(Prime)

61164

Willutes

USE APPROPRIATE SPACE

TEENTMATE

TARHRMT.WIALIGM

NUMBER FOR THE MONTH.

INSTRUCTIONS

COPAÈR POS' OR TOY.

0*

BASIC DATA.

CORRECTION:

INSERT

АРРДОВПЛАТЕ СОСІ

OR-CARCELLATION:(One OnIn).

wit way

DIGITS ONLY FOR YEAR.

PCS DATES, OF SERVICE

TYPe

0* DATe

REPAM TUNE

CARTET

PCS (Boadc)

CORRECTION.

CANCELLATION

92-33

/

06

30

63

TDY DATES

OF

SEPVICE

TYPE OF

DATA

DEPARTURE

RETURN

TDY (Basic)

29-29.

30-3:

32 - 83

34-95

36-37

CANCFALAYENNE

SOUPCE OF

RECORD

DOCUMENT

TRAVEL VOUCHER

DISPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND AYTENDANCE DEPON?

OTHER (Specily)

DOCUMENT ADENTIFACATIC TO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

95:0 iN 20232

REMARKS

CEFICE/COMPONENT

19÷20

50

COLLEA

USING THE

CHU:

40-118

365

tHEY

#9-

PREPARED AY

FISCAL

DIVISION

FINANCE DIVISION

FORM

145la iDITIOnS.

REPORT ANNOTATED ON

SOUACE DOCUMENT

DATE, deli

SIGNATURE

SECRET

ABOYE DATA VERY DO CORRET: SO UPSO SOUAGE

14. 90)

---

## Page 72

SECRET

‹When Filled do)

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE ISUAZUTED 6!

Office of Personnè., Statistical Seporting Brarch, 25 192 Curle Eall

_NINE OF EMPLOYEE

EMPLOVE SERIAL- NO.

1. 8

ÖFFICE/COiSONENT

MIDDLE

8d-28

3i/

INSTRUCTIONS

ust

REPORT DATA FOR HITHER

APPROPRIATE

TO DESIGNATE

BAETMEN SUBMISSIS

"ASIC DATA: COMMECTION, DO CANCELLNTICO (One ONI CODE NUMBER IN "CODE" COLLIN

MUNDER FOR. PHI MONTA.

AND LAST THO

DIGITS

REPORT DATES BY USING THE

ONLY FER VEIN.

PCS DATES OF SERVICE

TYPE OF DATA

COUNTRY

PCS (Besie)

COARECTION

CANCELLATION

29-90

PEER

99, 97

99-81

39-8*

TOY DATES

OF. SERVICE

TURE OF DATA

DEPARTURE

РяслеТІ,

OMIT

CODE

TOr (Draic)

"СОРРЕСТО»

28

CANCELLATION

Мw.80

38-32

33:34

83-38

38.08

801

SOURCE OF RECORO DOCUMENT

BRAVAL VOUCHER

DISPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORT

OTNER (Spocely)

COCUMENT IDENTIFICATION NO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIDE

HEMANNS

PREPARED BY

DIVISID%

NANCE CIVISION

1451a

i REPORT AMMOTATED OU

TORAGED

DOCUMENT

SIGNATURE

SECRET

ABODE DATA VESSFIED CORRECT.

BASED UPON SOURCE

DOCUMENT CITIO

14-103

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SECRET

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

130471 +0 461

TO:

ofrice of Personnel, Statistical Reportine Franch, RooM 202 Curte Hall

•: NAME :OF ENFLOTEE

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NO.

LAST

OFFiCE/COMPONENT

34-29

Plantili

34

INSTRUCTIONS

USt

NUMBER FOR THE MONTA. AND LAST

POR rEAR.

POS DATES OF SERVICE

TUPE OF DATA

ARRIVAL

40÷8.

87.28

39.30

TRAR

18.92

LAMANTONE

o di

92-90}

35:30

COUNTRY

OMIT

38.48

"CS (Beele)

СОЯЛЕСТВО

CANCERLATION

39.98

TOr DATES, OF

SERVICE

TYPE OF DATA

DEPARTURE

RETUAN

AREA (8)

ObIT

99-48

TOY (Deadc)

CORRECTION

CRACELLATION

19.30

39.36

10

801

SOURCE OF RECORD DOCUMENT

TRAVEL VOUCHER

DISPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME, AND ATTENDANCE REPORT

OTHER (Spaclly)

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION NO.

DOCUMETT

DATE/PERIDO

PE ARRAAX,

PREPARED BY

FISCAL DIVISION

FINANCE DIVISION

FUAN

8-30

1451a

REPORT ANNOTATED ON

SQUACE DOCUMENY

DATE

SECRET

AJOVE DATA VERIFIED CORRECT.

: DOCUMENT

BASED LADE SOURCE

14.101

---

## Page 74

CONFIDENTIAL

("nen' Follel 1n)

0691681918

1+8+9S85

1 UPL 0,71

HARVE

(Last)

(daddle)

WilliAm

HESIDENCA DATA

KINC

"LACE DE RESICCACE MULS APPOIMIED

DESIGNATED. Ag

L8W, IRVINO 57. CheMy ChAse, ind

CHECA (AD POI:

OsiNGr

XI MARRIrO

JIP.ARATED

os voncto

DE MARNICO, INDICATE PLÁCE' DI MARRIAGE

I DISORGEO.

PLACE OF DIVORCE DECREE

Berlin

DANNULLIO.

DATe OF MARRIA

12/52

DATE OF DECREE

DE MIOCATO, INDICATE PLACE SPOUSE DICO

DATE SEOUSE DIFO

IN PRIDICNSLO MARGIED, INDICATE MAN.1SI OF SPOUSE, REASONISI FOR PERMINATION, ANO DAPERSI.

3.

MAUP OF SACUSE

CIARA GRACE, NEE FOllICK

MANES DE TAILOGEN

MENRERE UF FAMILY

ADDRESS-(Vo.

Caly, duno, S8n0e)

'PELLPHONE NUNDER

AODRESS

56x

SAMe

AGE

12

sally

MAME 05

Verense

NAMI OF

Tesale awards on)

SARA

15 A10

ADORESS

TELEPHOSE NUMOIR

ANDRESS

'ELEPHOM

11415 NeRthwood Drive

sanche

NUMBER

257/6

BEEN TOLD OF YOUR AFFILIATION MIIN PNE AGENCY POR IMEHGFAGY

PURPOSES?

PERSON TO BE NOTIFIEU IN CASE OF EMLIGENCY

last-Forse-Middle)

Above

Inne,

Stare)

RELATIONSHIP

MUNI ASPRESS 100.

Novir

TELERHONI

064-5/78

@SINESS BIORESS PÁO., SESDOI, CIPY, RONO, SPATO) ANO NAME DI CUPLOYER, 1S APPLICABLE; BUSINESS PELEPMONE @ESTENSION

H8..

MAMED ABOVE MITTING OF TOUR AGENCY AFEILIATIINI

18 1991213

AUTNORIZED TO MARE DECISIONS ON YOUR BEMALE!

DEES THIS IAPIVIQUAL ANON CHAT ME MAS BEEN DESIGNATEO AS YOUR EMERGENCY

ADDRESSEEI

INE PERSINS MAMEN

ITEN S ABOVE MAY ALSO

BECRiSE DI MESLIM DR OTHER REASONS. PLEASE SO STATE

IN ITEM

ON TRMEREGNESE SIÓRSOE NOS FUGATICA IS NOT DESIRABLE

VOLUNTARY ENTRIES

BoNK

DANAING INSTAT

TIOUS WITH #NICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

HAMiTION NATIONAI

BANi/ OF

SilveRSpAING

CONTINUED ON REVERSE SIDE

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT

=3.

1 SAN 5?

61

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 75

CONFiDENTIAL

5:

(CONTINUED)

IN THOSE NAMEISI,

ACCOUNTS LISTED"

TOU COMPLETCO A LAST MILE ANO RESTARENT CO SO "

IS DOCUMINT LOCATEOD

MAYA TOU PIECUTIO A POLLA OF A TORMED

7.0..: 16

POSSESSES THE POMER OR ATTORNEY.

-ADDATIONAL

DATA ANDIOR CONTINUATION OF PRECEDINO IVEN!

SIGHED AT

DATE

11/4p

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 76

02/Sm0

SOB-C-ROET

(When fliled in)

TUTORIAL TRADITO. REPORT

03/21/63 - 06/17/63

WE

Btudent

: William K. Harvey

Year of Birth: 1915

Grade

' 18

EOD Date

: 09/47

0rf1ce

Service Designation: D

No. of Students

Inatructor: Mrs.

received

This 18 to certify tibit i

_H1l11am K. Harvey

bours of tutorial training in

_ language.

Beginner

Non-beginner

POR THE DIREOTOR OF SPARERO: Bruste. Herden

BENGT C. HARDER

Calai Instructor

rosacion

10/21/63

Date

GROUP 1

Excluded tam auicnatic

dowagradiaz and.

declassllicatise

SCE-C-R-ST

(when filled ini

---

## Page 77

td-innod

Pri 1961 Pesaoniel

materiil

---

## Page 78

14-00009

SECRET

(When Filled bri)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

Harvey, William K.

S. ORFICE: DIVIBION, BRANCH

&. POSITION TITLE

EVALUATION

• VATE OF REQUEST

28 Noverber 1966

A. GRADE

OS-18

B'-EMPLOVEE'S ENT;

5765

-Rocia JE 30

H0OS/10Ỳ

OVERSIAS'ASDIGNMENT

PRE-IMPLOYMENT

INTRANCE ON DUTÝ

,SPECIAL TRAININO

ANNUAL • ExeCUtiVO

RETUAN TO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

STATION

705 0A PC®

TIPE OF COVER

NO, OF DEPENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

NO TON PESANDENTRA CREI

EPORTO OF MEDICAR

ASTUHN TRON OVERIEAS

ETA

STATION

NO. OF DE P.'S

O. OVEMSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION (Uno Dioce mues bo chechod)

SIGNATURE

.YES

•. REQUESTINO OFFICEN

NO

ROON NO. # DUILDING

10. COMMENTS

GUALIFIED FON CURRENT DUTIES AT HEADQUANTES

11. REPORT OF EVALUATION

DATE

SIGNATURE FOR CHIER OP MEDICAL STARE

24 MAY 1967

10-59 259

P.TYS ICAL KEX UIKEMENTS OFFICER

SECRET

EXT.

(28)

--.

---

## Page 79

SECRET

casion Filled Be?

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

#. POSITION TITLE

S OFFICE. DIVISION, BRANCH

1, NATE DFIRIQUEST

31 January 1966

TA. GRADE

A. EMPLOVEE SETT.

PRE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON DUTY.

TOY STANDÓY

SPECIAL-TRAININO

ANNUAL.

RETURN TO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY.

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

"'PURPOST-OF EVALLATION

MOG$/TOY

OVERSEAS ASSENGENT

ETO

STATION

TOT ORFCE

TYPE OF COPEN

NO. OF DE PESCENTS TO ACCOMPANY

NO.

DEFE

HISTORY (SF 341

'ENTS" REPORTS UP MEDICAL

ATTACHEd

RETURN FRUN@YERSEAS

TETA

STATION

NO. OF DEP. '5

S. OVERSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION (IO DOCk MiSs DO ChOChed)

&. RESUESTING OFFICER

SIGNATURE

ROON NO. A BUILDING

NO

80. COMMENTS

Qualified for Current Duties

11, REPORT OF EVALUATION

31 Jamary 1966

DATE

31 January 1966

FORD 259 MENIONS

EXT.

SIGNATE ON USESTEr MEDICAL STAFF

SECRET

180)

---

## Page 80

1d-0d0

SECRET

(Wren Filleil ls)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

B. MAME (LaOs, FOrDE, Micklle)

HARVEY, *12212m R:

1. OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH

WE DIVISION

PRE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

TOT STANDOY

#PECIAL TRAINING

nie.

17 March 1965

* GRADE

GS 13

• EMPLOYEE'SENT.

7257

RETURN TO DUTY

PITNESS FOR DUTT

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

I. POSITION TITLE

COS

8. PUMPOSE OF EVALUATION

NDOWTOY

OVERSEAS ANNIONMENT

ETD

-10 March: 1965

ATATION

TOY OR PCS

PIS:

TYPE OF COVER

2

OF DEPENDENTS® REPORTS OR MEDICAL

HISTORT(SF 89)

ATTACHED

RETURN FROM OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

NO, OF DEP. '5

ANNINO EVALUATION (UNEDOCT

check od)

D. REQUESTING OFFICER

YE$

NO

10. COMMENTS OT

259 forverded at request of l

11. REPORT OF EVALUATION

DATE

8 3 22 63

Fo90 259 STENIO

SIGNATURE

TROOM NO. & DUTCOING

- 1b0d

QUALIFIED FOR PROPOSED O S

PCs

EXT.

7757

SIGNATURE FOR

SECRET

MEDICAL STAFF

420)

---

## Page 81

SECRET

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

•Copendento of HArtsin billiaa 1i

SOUFICE, DIViSION, BRANCH

WS DIVISION

DiPÚRPOS

PRE-EMPLOTMENT

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

TOY STANDRY Doperdents!

• SPECIAL TRADEN?

Clara

sally

0.

Jos

20 hia: 58

RETURN TO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

"MEDICAL"RETIREMENT

DATE ON RESUCST

8. POSITION

TATE:

•COS

17 March 1965

A. ONADE

GS=16

7157

EMR10A110

MOOS/TOY

OVERSEAS ASSIONHENT

29 arch 1965

TIPT OF COVER

NTS TO ACCOMPANY

NO OF PESENDENT$AMPOTS OF MEDICAL

Q.

RETURN FROM OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

NO. OF DEP. "5

& OVERSEAS PLANNING EVALUATIN IN CUCR ТВР G0 СПОСЛРВ

TES

NO

19, COMMENTS

259 forwarded at neguest of l

11. REPORT OF EVALUATION

DATE

1050 259 WE PREY

ISE PREVIOUS

.13 22 €3

#. REQUESTING OFFICER

SION

ROOM NO. & DUILDING

EXT.

3157

QUALIPIED FOR PROPOSED O 3

PCS

SIGNATURE FOR CIS POT MEDICAL STA

SECRET

128)

---

## Page 82

SECRET

(When Fallerl ln)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

NAME (Lans, fleas, Midlla)

Villlan K. Harvey

S. OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH

TE Diviaion

DATE OF REQUEST

16 Hay 1983

wOnT8Cr TIThY

Chiof of Station

CRÀDE.

09 18

A ENPLOTIES EXT.

PRE-INFLOYMENT.

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

TDY STANOGY.

SPECIAL TRAINING

ANNUAL

PETURN TO DUTY

pelmieae poe, hitt

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

MOOS/TOY

OVENSEAS ASSIONNENT

JETO

o/a 1 July 1963

STAELON

TDY OR UCS

PCS

TYFEOFCOVER

NO. OP DEPENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

3

NO.

OF DEPEMDENT$' REPORTS ON MEDICAL

HIST 88Y 15839)

aT*htkh

RETUAN FROM OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

NO. OF DEP.'S

CASAS

YES

NO

10. COMWENTS

Hoquest evaluatión for above PCS.

P. PEQUESTINO OPFICER

SIGNATURE

IROOMNO, & BUILDING

B

4404

€7157

11, REPORT OF EVALUATION

DATE

FOSN 259 WOEPONYOUS

Ii d!

SECRET

(20

---

## Page 83

SECRET

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EYALUATION

DATE OF REQUEST

18 May 1963

TA. GRADE

HANE (Lane, Ferre, Merele)

Dopendents of allian &. Harvey

• OFFICE, DIVISION ORATOR

VS. Division

POSITION TITEL

Chief öf Station

B. EMPLONIE'S EXT.

525%

PRE-EMPLOYMENT

TRANCE ON 'DUTI

TOr STANOSY

SPECIAL TRAININE

ANNUAL

RETUAN PO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

A PURPOSE DE ENALKATION

OVERSEAS ASSIGNMENT

0/a 1 July 1963

STATION

PDY OR PEE

PCS

TYPE Or COVER

NO. OF DE PENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

3

MiSTO PESTED APACHERTS OR MEDIÇAL

RETUAN FROM OVERSEAS

STATION

MEDICAL RETIREMETT

NO. OF DEP.'S

OVERSEAS PLANNING E TALLATION (DITO DIOCA TUN DO

chocked)

YES

NO

90.

COMMENTS

#, REQUESTINO OFFICER

sid

RANINO. A BUILDINO.

• B 4404

EAT.

7157

89's on file in sodieal office - per telephone conversation 16 May 63

II'' REPORT OR EYALUATION

194 259

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

SIGNATURE FOREMIEE OF MEDICAL STATE

so tarass

SECRET

§Lance, i.

tantate

88i2

126)

---

## Page 84

SECRET

(When filled in)

REQUEST FO: MEDICAL EVALUATION

NAME: (2eot, PJ008, Alcia)

HARYEY, WILLIAN:

B. OFFICE. DIVISION, BRANCH

PRE-EMPLOYMENT.

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

25 January 1962

IN SITION TITL

08-18

G'EMOLOTEE'SUIT.

8472

ALUATiSN

boor

CrETSEAS ASSIONMENT

ETO

28 January 2062

ISTATION

2Y.OR PCS

TiPE oF COVER

S OF DEPENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

NOME

STO PESEND NACHES

REPORTS OF MEDICAL

RETION FROM OVERSEAS

TRATION

¡ NO Of CEPS

TOT STANDET

SPECIAL TRAINING

ANNUAL

RETURN TO OUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

4. 414

"LANNING EVALUATION (Ons block muat be cheched)

YES

NO

10. REMORSCOT. EXAAMTATIEI

COMMENTS

*. AEQUESTING OFFICER

SIGNATURE

OOM NO. & BUILDIN

2505 - 1 3:1122

EXT.

I1. REPONT OF EVALLATION

DATE

FA 259 YERPOEWIOUS

.:962

DONATURE FOR CHAT ME A gIR

SECRET

1241

---

## Page 85

1d-0n0d

SECRET

(Whoo' Filled lo)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

ME (RABe, Firer, Micklio)

OPTICE, DIVISI

FI Stall, Diviatos D

FRiE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON OUTY

OVERSEAS RETURN

TESTANDBY

SPECIAL TRAINING

ANNUAL

RETURN TO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTT

-MEDICAL RETIREMENT

OUTRAGRA PLANNINO EVALUATION (One block muse bo chockoll

TE%

NO

10, REPONP OF EVALUATION

I 'DATE OF REQUEST

20. October 1960

D. POSITIONTITLE

4. GRADE

Division Chief

GS-18

D. EMPLOTE SENT.

8471

%: PURPONE OR

EVAGUATION

OVERSEAS ASSIONMENT

ETO

28 October 1960-

STATION

Cormany and Switserland

Tor on res

TDY

TYSE OF COVER

NO. OF DEPÉNDENTS TO ACCOMPANY.

ROI0

NO. 0F

DEFENDENTS"

REPORTS OFMEDICAL

HISTORY (SERS) ATTACHED

D. REQUESTINO OFFICER

SIGNATI

ROOM NO. & DUTCCING

1505 L

EXT.

1164

Sabjees deperted on another 8DI prior to evaluation. However 1a Qualified for.

proposed TD%

100.

DATE

NOV 1200

SECRET

(26)

ft.4'

---

## Page 86

SECRET

When fillod li

MEDICAL ACTION REQUEST: AND REPORT

I no mon

1p1es8!

middles

REQUEST FOR PHYSICAL EXAMINATION EY

"Hashta, buen so

TO POSITION

TYPE OF POSITION

Departmental

7u.s. 9101d

r80a8

3. 0915, APrIl 2960

EVALVATE fOR

Ovarseas

Pro-Employmant

Annual

Special ISpeellys

BY MEPORT OF MEDICAL EVALUATION

=ouallied dor Full Outy (Gonerall

evadillod lor Deparroansal Dusy Only

Remarke:

muellfled for Full Outy ISpociola

Hoisquallfled

QUALIFIED FOR DEPARTZSIM! DUTIES

AND PRECOST TEX 0,510

21T

14, JUN 1960

SECRET

MEDICAL OFFICI

---

## Page 87

SECRET

(When Falled fo)

MEDICAL ACTION REQUEST AND REPORT

1mid1le1

1. REQUEST FOR PHYSICAL• EXAMINATION OT

MANE KLEINT

HARVET

TO POSITION

-Deimang

TYPE OF POSITION

7 Depar

XJ0r0r10e8

PCS

11 REPORT OF MEDICAL. EVALUATION

indeedified for full Duty

(Generall

alitied for Deporemental Duty Ondy

Remarke: Pleasenotifyl

OFFICE.

'EVALUATE FOR

2J00

PRANCH

PCS

LADE

05676.:

Jre-Employment

7 Annual

spectat (Sp0cl9y1

sacolnd tour

aJwallfled for Full Duty ISpeclali

-disqualilled

xü041, of resulte.

PILIND FOR FROTOSED PES 0,5 ISSENMENT 005 O

Prese

4957

MEDICAL

---

## Page 88

..EPORT. OF PHYSICAL.QUALIFIÇATIUAD

FOR VOUCHERED EXPLOYEE OUL

NATURE OF. ACTION

GRADE

TITLE OF POSITION

DEFT.

UNFIT FÓR DUTY IN THE SOUVE GRADE AND POSITION.

I FIELD

SUBJECT FOUND

FOR UNVOUCHERED

EMPLOYEE OILY

SUBJECT QUALIFIED FOR:

FULL DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (MILITARY ONLY)

DEFECTS MOTED AND/OR RECOMMENDATIONS:

LIMITED CUTE OVERSEAS

DUTY IN USA CHLY

Nox-ardueuit. for ToY

o/s where medical

facilities

PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS OFFICER

FORY, NO.

NOV 1951 97-92 REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 37-98

ARO

37-37. WHICH MAY BE USED.

188)

---

## Page 89

REPOR. PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS I DUTY

.:030

i30 dan 57.

.194

_ WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

Fervete WIllIar Re

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE AND FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

Oversons

FULL DUTY OVERSEAS

_ LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARMY EM ONLY)

DEFECTS NOTED:

DUTY IN USA ONLY

Approved for MI. To roport to Holleal aftor IDY

JOHN RO TIKIJEN, M.D.

FORM

DEC

---

## Page 90

14-00000

PHYSICAL QLALIFICATION RECORD

BORROW

NATURE OF ACTION

TITLE OF POSITION

GRADE

Intallizonce Officor

DEPARTMENT OR FIELD

Subject was found

physically

in the above grade and position.

To first for duty with this organization.

RECONNENDATIONS:

2 Jordan 1919

DATE

Jishn. B Piet

OF PHTSICAL GELIRENENTS

PORT AH.

NOV 1949 98-38

---

## Page 91

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINQTON 25, D.

REPOR

LE PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS CUR DUTY:

-194-31

_ WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE ANO FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

TFULL DUTY OVERSEAS

LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARMY EM. ONLY)

DUTY IN USA ONLY

DEFECTS NOTED:

lone

809#

N08 180; 87-98

480991

---

## Page 92

14.00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE, ANGE

• WASHINGTON 28, 0.

REPORT U.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS FUR DUTY

-Jas 30:7

_ HAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE ANO FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

IS FULL DUTY OVERSEAS

LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARVY EM ONLY)

DEFECTS NOTED:

Nors

DUTY IN. USA ONLY

John Is aigen

FORM

JAN 188;

---

## Page 93

HM ! GAMMAR 044 18 124997

0.1.0.

5361111na

King

2627 39th Stres

Cyre can die piano paral avio:

•Hashington, D. O.

We rule resider fi

Kentucky

• Danville,

Indiana

9/13/15

188D Marriant

73. Heals atri a vas

.5=-11d

dinite on lin

APPLICAT IN FOR FEDERAL EMPLOAF-T

from word sui sissies

роії.

DO NOT WHITE IN THIS BLOCK

Fue line Dal Sorr Caminers Only

14290221

tales: 001 5995-1004

• fires.

-

IT .30

Harvey.

means Sen

"I GENDE

2RA050

no bantse

"Dio point

C) Female

Bedro

301: 21100 0] $0

19.

J80 E DATRIN....

Is Washinaton: D. 62......

outrite the Unitar Ststeei.....--.

- 3-9 38 90530 08 tr

locatons

(di) What is lto deet enva o salary pou mll citest

tos feus.

You will not so roasidered los portilane payisg loas

CAP 13

whirt pres are rigiating

sanitatical sebrite which you

Start with poxs

DRATITO PATT

PRESENT POSITION

Enout ala de juvi preport suadori

Starts. $

gree

D'aariptlun it your wrrd..

Ross stagyment (danth yours

Fr. r.

Fss.7 or endoyciont (eity and Sioto).

and outdress a arployar thim.

organizian e

2517750d lota, mastur la gatedneso ail serva

Nant ana kind of atlutone superred by your

Mace so 9ão dE leadicia supervisor

(CONTINUED ON NEIT PAGE

88457997

---

## Page 94

48423911}

12/9140

• 18. 19.:1

18/22/47

""sihinpton,

D:

N.I., R.Y.,

Pittsburgs,Pa.,

G.

FBI • Dept. of Justloe

en aforament-counter Intellice

varione

N550-1607075

D. No Ladd

vo lun tary

10 12/40

Hayvilla, K

Tuso

"'Correi

So11

Prestios De Ta

20N) LA D. PERMITIO ME VALUAN

152U UNa distas pujara

Hono

FINIFICAI

Voluntary

1.50 0 06/32

por delito pos!

Tor

-9/33

Fao de agre laty an deato

Dansvillo, Indian

Tais art:

Darrillo, Indiame

or Heropaper

Siste al tra minera pasoreto pea

Fons

Basand'eso

8 carodias o garrene

Arta Ell, Bastor

Taina tras

Voluntar

sed

sote dano emperatr

nara rapeis tesin tienenses e

OREOS VOS LL 25.

special Agent & Surervisor

21456 3200

ser arrip

P, n

17000

Supervielon of lounter latalligance operation

Attorney-st-)m

Dossis thin sel your work: ...

General Practico of las

Poket : 8

Exusi bilo de yuur fetitior

Beporter a Printer

Spacripton of pour wort

Final

Omneral lewspaper Publiahing businasa

por

74213 8

pes

Ion eston el your merk.

TI66 1538 2 12241016 8.50718:

Inen Error

=58 os do atral el juspos la matro aldo o eba f a

+8-0274513

---

## Page 95

l rara mampo cara us

HONE

Pasta armat remia paira

Te dir aunarene aler el Paro.

Fras.

To

Lia un o sousale alnal al saces ano ginpunal arreranco trolnidos pporean de nepual dud asalarade durino collara coladod os hasente lentino

19-auca rele la gente paisane lo

12

Mart la) sho appropolato leis to luisas antial-netory conclatien ol

2 Hommutare Schen El later Huah Serent Siental Schei

N.'28

Indiana Univarsity

Bloomington, Indiana

LAN

V1lay High School

Torre knuto, Indiana

Driy

Norght

1933.

1937

Der;rons Carlretas

17.1 t

TaLB

9/37

Lout Your Chind Cin It 18r ollensa les irrete

Star seter

180

mash. mota

95

Los pueden moipa co

20

_20

13 0230%

Mears ('empiatod

TN.us8

8. Indicen Fi, lam

was lares

Rea ino Plata,

Study

tesorelent ap reverriee irs

Mo.no" de

en nd0n1u 1103 chier.

ra oraci in prolesionad or aciontito esciutice olo.

As prominato surine el murde sur sunota in trino. 52 abaran .....

---

## Page 96

NULL NAMS

Bo F. Small

Ao Mo Truiraton

USINESG OE NOME ANSR

Sycamore Dide Terro Haute, Indrane

Cochran dg, Mayeville, V:

c.J.Q.- Washington, D. C.

1Q No

Attiz

Attz

TE3

temodia In lirro 38.

87. Way tendi rache sono you baskets y yand intois.

ideanno

wared e Ala

banale mafriae. Mi

lors.

po do cagare lul theo cheter lãa 99 de postere ed dho olfonea

(D sta suese rà dentro de lassare, lay tho connaley

.X..

Tiesa Bestrie t tonl. 79710798 4100

mit dei dio io air e eleonore.----1---

(0)

Dislo ul onisy se entrioa inta sopp.

Bert.

Br sese b

lArn.g.

C. G. aie.)

НАРТУТ

30. D.

"NY TR"

#5719 0787

th tornalis

moresnore.

PST

113498"

98. Are pou an ofidal ue amplopo il 94y stala. Tartare, county

T 4346121 ZA67 8.

i Che a LA

Se Dare dirono Warin 113 prol l rodarar.

"rame la ottenere hoc

li regolenatig

WITH THIS APPLICATION

Indicrita

ТО%Е IN MrMMDDBННН: 144 +61011748EITT

participala In di crima.

del t tan M...

(c)

(08)

40 0 0 0 0 iN D IS Da DI → DA NA Ne D I DO OP UP DE DA DI DA DO SA 1O SE 2A

H79ERC MERRQUSESNN6" 0989.743

THIB SPACE. TOR USE OF APPOINTINO OITICE OLT

Tha Indormaton centrical 14 de annunca lo Quardos 19 alaro bas kero pors

Il Mano you orer hul is noreoual rastvdcmrit....

Il meur or'arono on "Yes" gire se mus leno datualle in Mom 38.

33. Euro ler detaiad aprare to edico sperone luticato e puntone an

ITEN SIA!

dugan ...

marone trare se pri

Era ilers sonis tie

---

## Page 97

14-00000

PERSONAL MISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS:

AuSaid

aLL QUESTIONS

COMPLETELY.

IF

guisTI,

DOES

NOT APPLY

WHITE

* MCT

AFPLICABLE®

WAITE

10U

00

NOT

RHOW THE

ANSWER 'AND

CARA.

CATAIN THE

ISON PERSONAL

RECORDS.

USE A

SEPARATE SMIES

PAPER

JETAILS

QUESTINA

QUESTICAS

FOR WMICM YOU

00

NOT

NAvE

SUFFICIENT ROCK.

'RECEAT-PASSPORT

TO THIS

OF EACH.

ТУРЕ.

PRIMT

BRITE CAREFULLY;

SIRE-PICTUGES

DULEGIOLE

FOGM.

DATE

TANCh

OR

JACCHFLETE

FORMS WILL

NOT

WRITTEN

RECEIVE

THE

BACK

COASIDERATOR

HAVE YOU READ ANO UNDERSTOOO. THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS?

SECTION 1.

'PERSONAL' DACIEROUID

MAST

NAME

MISSI

INTDOLE

TIST

MR. EX

MRS.

Kins

Frivey

PRESENT ADDRESS

STREET AND MUMBER

• CITY

STATE

2527.

39tb Street

LEGAL RESIDENCE

...Not:

STREET AND MUMBER

shinton. De GITE

CITY

Meyeville

•Keritucky

•WICKHAMES

TOTHER NAMES THAT

• YOU HAVE USED

None

UNDER MHOT-IRCUMSTANCES, MAVE YOU EVER USED THESE ANEST

IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (WHERE WHEN AND BY WHAT AUTHORITY)

YES EX

TELEPRONE®

OR 2914

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

U.S.A:

HOW TONGE

-None

DATE OF: BIRTH

9/13/15

PRESENT CTYTZEWSHTF

US

MATURAL ZATION

CERTIFICATE

LOCATION OF COURT

MUMBER

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITY

STATE

Denville,

Indiara

ACHUTRED TY:

BURTLE MARRIA SSUEO MATURALLATiON E OF COURT

COUNYRY

CITY

STATE

"COUNTHY

PREVIOUS CITIZENSNIP

Tro:

None

OTHER CITIZENSHIPS (GIVE PARTICULARS)

sone

STEPS

TAKEN TO CHANGE PRESENT WATTONALITY (GIVE PARTICULARS)

LAST

0.s

NUMBER

DATE

LACE OF ISSU

PASSPORT

ALL

OTHER

v.s.

PASSPORTS YOU HAVE MAD (GIVE APPROXIMATE DATEST

None

PASSPORTS OF OTHER MATIONS

None

DATE OF ARRIVAL IN THIS COUNTRY TPORT OF ENTRY

PASSPORT OF COUNTRY

IF

8ORM

OUTSIDE

u.s

NUMBER

LAST U.S.

TYPE

Y 18A

SECTIOM,

hex

PHYSICAL

DESCRIPTION

HETENT

31

COMPLEXION

Fair

OTMER DISTINGUISMING FEATURES

DATE

PLACE OF ISSUE

WETGHT

185

TYES

Green

SCARS

"Flangular scar rt. cheek

HAIR

Blonde

BUILD

l'edium stocky

mustache

#Ont

08-8

1048

---

## Page 98

SECTION 3•

MARITAL

STATUS

DIMRIEN

SINGLE

NELSON FOR SEPAGATICS :? DIVORCE

SEPARATED CO

CATE SE SEPARATIDN OR DIVCRCE PLACE

MOTE:

IF YOU MAVE MER DIGGIED MORE THAN

INCE USE A SEPAGATE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAÑO AND GiVE DATA.

REQUIRLO BELCO

FiE aLL PREVIOUS- MARRIAGES.

HAME OF WIFE

FIRST

MIDOLE(FOR WIFE, MAIDENY:

LAST

DATE OF, NARRIAGE

OR MUSEASO

E21 sabota

Howe

Molatire:

2020/34

PLAGE OF MARRIAGE

(HIS OR

MERIADORESS

SIREE? AND NUMBER

Hocainston®

Indiane

'CITY

STATE

BEFCRE MARRIA emingaburg, Kentudy

COUNTRY

U. Solo

LIVING

DATE OF ALCEASE

ICAUSE

DECEASED

PRESENT OR

STELES AND NUMBER

LAST ADDRESS!

2627 39t4 Street NoW.

Hashingion, D. Go:

Kentudly

STATE

STATE

cOUmTRY

U.S.Ao

COUNTRY

CITINSHIP

USe

DATE ACQUIRED

•Birth

OCCUPATION

Housenile

EMPIOYEN'S CA OWN

BUSINESS

ADDRESS

WHERE

ACQUIRED

LAST EMPLOYER

May Departeent - 1001 - 1942-122

SIREET-AND NUMBER

Pentagon 3148

STATE

COUNTRY

STATE

Washington D. Ce

BATE CF

MILITARY

FROM:

TO:

COUNTAT

USA

BRANCH OF SERVICE

COUNTRY

GERANCE

OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, W.S. CA FOREIGN (GIVE DETAILS)

Washington, De le

- 2042-29134

SECTION A.

CHILDREM OR CEPENDENTS (INCLUDE PARTIAL DEPENDENTS)

# 1ME

RELATIONSHIP

CITIZEASHOP

ESPRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

NAME

C01ZENSMIP

RELATIONSHIP

ANDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

• HONB

STATE

RELATIONSWIP

2.20:55

STREET iNS NUMBER

CITY

STAlE

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

AGE

AGE

AGE

SECTLEM 5.

PARENTS

MOTE: COR SAMATULER STEPAINSE 2B0,28 GUAROLAN, GIRL THE SAME INECEMATION AS REQUIRED BELOW ON SEPARATE SHEET

NABE UF FATNES

ARE DE CECROT

Dranas

R. "(only)

Harry

DECEASEDLE

7/25/16

PRESIDi LE

DATE OF

BIRitt

158

STREET AND NUMPER

Tennessea

86.

PLACE OF BIRIN

Danville

LITTERiNIP

USA

DATE SITUIRED

Birth

STATE

indiana

CiTY

Indiana

STATE

WHERE

CITY

ACQUIRED

STATE

ECUNTRY

U.3.4o

COUNTRY

U.Sede

COUNTRY

JCCUPETICN

Betoray

LAST EMPLOYER

Self

CaN

BUSINESO ADDRESS

SECTICN 3.

PARENTS

"SEE" SAD NUMBER

Danville

CITY

Indiana

STATE

COUNTRY

---

## Page 99

2EGT/0N SI PARENIS

(CONTINE: P

DATE OF

FROM.

MILITARY SERVICE

OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE.

D. U.S. ER FOREIGN(GIVE DETATES)

done

HAME OF NOTHER

FiRSi

FEAREN dE SERAICE

COURTAr

MAIDEN

Kirs

LaST

Erver

PRESENT OR

STREET, aND NUMBER

S07À

Monter

Street

CITY

Terre suses

DATE OF ETRIN

PLACE OF BIRTH

.STATE

Indiara

STATE

1520

Drimille

ETTIZENSNTE

DATE

ASSUIRED

USA

Sirth

whEKE

CITY

ACQUIRED

STATE-

OCCUPATION

LAST ERLOYER

Brofessor

EMPLOYER'S OR

OWN

- STREE!

Inian State Ferchers Wh

. AND HUMBER

STATE.

BUSINESS

ADDRESS

Franz inute,

GOVERIMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN(GIVE DETAILS)

Jose

FESILON de BROTMERS APP SISTERALLAGURLAG HOSEF STERS (AR 1229E2 SEPIJERS AND SISTERS)

None

PRESENT ADDRESS

STELET AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

NAME

FIRST

MIDOLE

LAST

COUMIRY

U. Sadi

COUATOY

U. Side

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

C. Saddo

COUNTEr

FRESENT ADDRESS

HAME

PRESENT ADDRESS

Nono

STREET AND NUMBER

FIRST

STREET AND HUMBER

CITY

STATE

COUATRY

MIDDLE

LAST

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

HANE

PARENTR-L™-LAM

MIDOLE

James

DATE OF

DECEASE

LAST

¿einiire, Sie

PRESENT OR

LAST

ADDRESS

DATE OF BIRTH

1550

CITIZENSHIP

OCCUPESAN

Attorney

NAME OF MOTHER-TA-LAW

Latvin

CAUSE

STSES? AND NUMBER

450 kt.

ETTr

32mel Avenue

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITY

DATE ALGUIRED

Bening Countie Kentur

Birth

WHERE

ACQUIRED

LAST EMPLOYER

Self

MAIDEN

LIVING

DECEASEN E

STATE

Lentudiy

STATE

STATE

COUNTRY

LiSA

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

FIEST

CAUSE ROSS

Arteris scleroscis

STREE: AND NUMBER

LAST

Heint ire

1: 1

ECEASET

1942

PRESENT OR

LAST ADDRESS

480

CATE OF BIRTH

1536

CITIZENSHIP

OCCUPWFO

Eousewife

dit.

PLAUE OF BIRTH

ZemizE County,

DATE ASTUIRED

Birts

CITY

Fenicashers

CIT

Kertusy

WHERE

GITT

ACQUIRED

LAST EMPLOYER

STATE

Kentucky

STATE

STATE

COUPiNT

USA

COUSTEY

PAGE

---

## Page 100

SECTION 8.

RELATIVES

MOTE:

INDICATI

INFIDENCE

or 1001154

MAME .

MAKK IACI

PI/LAS OF THI

into start

STATES,

APOCAD.

MAGGIED

ARE

UNDER THE

WON-CITIZENS.

TRLLATIONSHIP

TAGE

•ITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

"STHATT AND NUMBIH

CITY

SPATE

COUNTRY

REASON FOR LISTING UNDLE THIS QUESTION

NAME

HONE

RELATIONSNIF

STATE

I GE

CITIZENSMIP

ADORESS. STRELT AND NUMPER

REASON FOR LISTING UNDER THIS QUESTION

COUNTRY

NAME

TRELATIONSHIP

CITIZENSHIP

ADORESS

STRECT AND HUMBER

CITY

"STATE

COUNTRY

REASON FOR LISTING UNDER THIS QUESTION

MORSIC DUGALEO STONES A DALIES RY BLOOD OR MAMMIAGE, IN MILITARY, NAVAL OR OTNER GOVERNMENT

NAME

TRETATIONSHIP

Balent

Barres

CHITZENGHTE

ADURESS STREET AND NUMBER

MOCITY.

Cousta

AGE

145 appras.

COUNTRY

USA-Birth

"ot know to mo as pressat

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SENTICE (TF KNOWN)

- Colonel - U.S. Ars

HAME

CITIZENSHIP

TAUCHESS STREET AND NUMBER

RELATIONSHIP

STATE

AGE

COUNTRY

TYPE AND ZOCATION. OF

SERVICE TIF KNOWNT

MAME

RELATIONSNIP

AGE

CITIZENSHIP"

ADDRESS STRIFT AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE TTA KNOW#)

SEGTION 9. LOUCALIOS

SCHOOL

Publie Schools_

TI HUM

DATES

TIE NOED

1921

PCHOOL

H1ley H4ch School

DATES

ATTENDED

1928

COLLEGE

Indinor

Unlveralty

¡hUM

DATIS

ATLANDID

1937

COLLEG

TADORi Innville, Inlinna

TITT

Tape tauto. Iadlana

~ TOrTRET

1.05W 53- 1928.

Terro haute. Indians

- 7931

TAUDRESS

"loominiton Inilona

1937

-STATE

COUNTRY

VEA

USA

TOrCREE

H. 5. Diplom

tir:

SIATE

COUNTRY

USA

i Gift LiB with Distinction

TANTFESS

TNOM

DATE!

ATTE

SECTION

10. SELECTIVE SERYNCE

10

TITUED TO PAGE D)

---

## Page 101

SECTION 10:

SELECTIVE SERVICE

CLASSIFICATION

Hate

ORDER' NUMBER

1194

ADDRESS OF BOARD

STREET AND NUMBER

APPROLIMATE

None

CITY

UCTION DATE

insen Founts.

Kentucky.

STATE

LISA

IF DEFERRED.: STATE REASON

Yes, 1Cl5-20117. Soncial Arent- S0X- US Dont of itus*lee

SECT 104. 18. MILITARY,

SERVICE OR OTHER COVERANENT SERVICA - UMITED STATES. OR FOREIGE

USA

GRADE

Special Agent

LAST STATION

lashinston, D.. C.

REMARAS:

SERVICE FROM:

1l9CiO DISCHARGE S/2aM7

Voluntary Haination

COMMANDING OFFICER

BOARD. NUMBER

$ 113:

SECTION 12: CHROBOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT(USE SODITIONAL SHEET IF NECESSARY)

MOTE: INCLUDE BELOW PERIOOS

OF

UNEMPLOYMEMT AND CASUAL

EMPLOYMENT.

GIVE

ADDRESS AND STATE WHAT YOU-

DIO DURING PERIODS OF UNEMPLOTMENT.

INCLUDE LASTS POSITIONS AND COVER ST LEAST 15 YEARS.

EMPLOYER

JOB TITLE

R. F. King Constriction

"o..

ADDRESS

STREET AND MUMBER

CITY

Laborer

STATE

KIND OF BUSINESS

Dhaville,

Indinca

Fridge

Construction

YOUR DUTIES AND SPECIALITY

NAME OF

SUPERVISOR

Construction "orker

3e lie Äirs

FROM:

TO:

SALARY'

PER

DATES

COVERED

5/36

REASONS FOR LEAVING

9/25

IMPLOYER

Seturn to school

ADDRESS

TREET AND NUMBE

Inville

YOUR DUFTES AND SPEGTALITY

Editoral and Nechnical Work

CITY

Indiana

TO:

COVERED

1951

REASONS FOR LEAVING

1233

Ia Enter University

EMPLOYER

ADDRESS

I-319-3

Inisersity

STREET AND AUMBER

Bloominston

Indiens

YOUR DUTIES AND SPECIALITY

CITY

DATES

FROM:

COVERED

Fartino 1034

REASONS FOR LEAVING

Tolintary jesionation

EMPLOTER

19,35

STATE

STATE

Self

ADDRESS

STREET AND MUMBER

210 Covert Strat

$10

week

JOB TITLE

Senorter & Trinter

RINO OF BUSINESS

- Newspaper

NAHL

LIVISOR

LAiTin Enll, Baltar

SALARY

PER

$10-915

week

JOB TITLE

Billiatty lriter

KIND OF BUSINESS

See abora

MAME OF SUPERVISOR

Various

SALARY

PER

$10 (AcerOs)

week

JOB TITLE

CITY

STATE

May CONTRUED TO AGE 61.

IAD OF BUSINES

Arctica of tat

PAGE

---

## Page 102

SECTION 12: CHRONQLOGICAL

HISTORY OF CAPLOTAENT ICOUTIMUTO FROM PAGE'SI

To:

11931

PEd ON, FOR LEAVIN

To enter

TBI

2910

INFLOPER

Veeral suman of montreallen

STALET AND MUMBLE

STAYE.

Department of Jestise Base: Nishinaton, D. C.

TOUM DUTIAS' AND SPECIALITY

Counter- Intelliganoi

COVERED

REASONS FOR LEAVING

Voluntary "oil nation

TO 8/20147

EMPLOrER

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

YOUR DUTIES AND SPECIALITY

DATE"

•FROM:

CONFPEO

REASON, FOR LEAVING

10:

CAME OF SUFERVISCR

SALARY

131500-12000

PER

106 111 Spootal Agent A

Kio of dus perfec

Lan lafarooneil

So Nagar. Boover

ALAD

$3200 $700

*Anna

JOB TITLE

KIND OF BUST#ESS

NAME OF SUPERVISOR

TSALARY

PER

IN SPACE BELOW GIVE

DF TAILS CONCERNING

POSITION FROM WHICH YOU MAY HAVE BEEN DISCHARGED OR ANICH YOU

HAY WAVE LEFT UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES

'MICH WERE MOT ENTIRELY FAVORABLE.

DETAILS:

Abaolutely Sone

SECT 109 13. CHARACTER.

REFER

THE

UNITED

NAME

STASER ATIVE WORDESS ADORESS

WHERE POSSIBLE STATE

D. T. Foroll

NAME

ADORESS

SEATE

J. Fe Scalla Alty

GAME

SEES NO EL A NUMBER Fra Date

{alfasa

Jo Ho Finch, He

FADDRESS

AND NUMBER

Nessficia

SEATE

Hargy Eternat

inter of Police FD

БІДМі

AQURESS

STRELT AND NONBET

Hester 229e

I boZelgior, Atty

ochran Blde.

Hyavillag

SECTION DAL EXCIAL ASQUALATENCES-FIVE IN THE RODEO SASTRALE VE NIGINESS ASORESS DISRE POSSIBLE STATE

No li In 1411

§ C.I.Q.

NAME

ADDRESS

Matthes Mondra

U.S.

STATET AND MEMBER

Merington, Do Go STATE

Matrios

ourt

NAME

ADDRESS TRECT AND NUMBER -

Baahlaston, D. Si

STATE

Jo to Beanot, It. Col.

Andrea Folde

NAME

laryland

ADDRESS STREET AND WUMPER.

ЗАТЕ

To 1018860

Hoan 1754

ADONESS

STREET 2O MISER

Doot: of Justion

treninston, Do c.

SECTION 1B.

HEIGHBONS THREE

STATES (AT YOUR LAST MORMAL

LEQMILANEN IN PAGE IL

---

## Page 103

KONG NST CLAN

• STATE

Bich r1 Froar

2527: 396B St. N.2:

kasbincton, Do C.

#: Jobin Holeberg

2029 39th St. 1.16

НАЖЕ

deshington,

STATE

ADORESS

STREET AND MUMEER

CITY

STATE

Bichard Tallaher

2529 392 580 NoX:

Machinston D. O

SECTICH 18. MISCELLANEOUS

DID: YOU EVER HAVE

OR. DO YOU 1470

THE OFFATAROW

MEMBERSHIP

OR SUPPET ANY. POLITICAL PARTY

OUR CONSTILT TAL FOAM-OF

ARSHER IS "YES"

EXPLAIN #IS

GOVERNMENT

IN THE UNITEO STATES?

VES ORCAMIZATION ONCE GOVOTES

DO YOU USE, UR NAVE YOU USES SEENICARIST

LAN OTHER-THAN A MINOR TASFFIC VIOLATIONE

NATURE OF OFFÉNCE.

AND DISPOSITION OF CASE.

RO

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN COURT ARTED WHILE A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCEST

IF ANSOLE IS "YES", GIVE DETATE SELOW:

SECTION 17. FRANCIAL BACKGROUN

ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARIE YESIS MOL IF ANSWER IS NO, STATE SOURCES OF OTMER INCOME.

RAMES CE SANKS MITH WHICH YOU ARIE AGSOURTE

reepiss dunk of ining aunty, Femingeburg, Kentuc

State intional kank, levouille, Bentucky (Aeotrecently cloard)

MAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN BANARATE?

NO LE IF ANSHER IS "YES", GIVS PARTICULARS:

Peoples Bank of "lendar "ounty

CITY

Kentucky

en tuch

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

NAME

do Garfinchal & Co.

SECTION 18.

RESIDENCES FOR PAST 3

3/2942

Late

R05/2/1902

TO:

3/19÷2

702/1342

ADDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

bashingson, D. G,

STREET AND WUMETS

EThY

STATE

2021

COUNTRY

39th St. 1.7.

N2255

Hahlagton, D. C.

Gracea

Spur eer Aven

CiTT

STATE

court,

TREET AND NUNSI

berteon Street

Shat, X.8. 4.7.6m.%.

(CONTINUED TO PAGE 8)

---

## Page 104

SECTION 19. PESIDENCES

FOR PAST 15

E,80M:

0/1037

FROM:

1933

FROM:

1931

FROM:

:1923

FROM:

1/15:2

TO:

1.2237

1933

To:

1931

TO:

12.110E20

STREET AND HUMBER

STATE

11z?2e

STREET AND. NUMBER

CITY.

ESTREET ANO RUMBER

STATE

SOUSTEY

LiSA

CCUNTAT

ESA

Distille

SINCET AND NiMBER

CITY

• Center St.:

Terre Faute,

ASCRESS ": STREET AND HUMBER

STATE

Ind.

STATE

brid.

USA

COUNTRY

USA

COLaTaY

Purfest

210.

2150

FROM: (NO. AND YR. TO: (NV. AND YN.)

TRON: (40- ARD VR.) TO: (NO: AND VR.T

COUaTRY

PURPOSE

CITY OR SECTION

COUNTRY

PURPOSE

c.".

FROM: (MO. ANO VR.) |TO: (N0. AND TRJ

CITT OR SECT:ON

COLATRY

PURPOSE

FROM: (MO: ANO YA.) TO: (NO. ANO TR.)

CITY OR SECTIGN :

COUNTRY

PURPOSE

FROM: (NO. AND YR.) TO: (NO. AMO YR.)

CITY OR SECTICH

COUNTRY

PURPUSE

SECTION De GIUSI, SOCIELLES ANO OTNER DAMANLATIONS

OYE: IN SPACE

NAMES AND ADRIESS:S OF

AUL DORESITE ANS FERETOT CLURS, SOETEYTES AND CICIAIZATTONS

OF ALL

KINOS TO MHIEN YOU HAVE

BELONGED,

THAN

INCLUDE

ANY ORGANIZATION MAVING

HEACSLARTENS

RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES.

BOLITICAL PARTIES AND LABOR UNIONS.

EH A BRANCH 1#

A FOPEIGN COUMTRY OF WHICH YOU MAVE GEEN A MEH

BER OR TO WNICH YOU MAVE GIVEN SUPPORT.

NAME

SINCET AND RUMBER

C17Y

Stema Chi

MAME

STREET AND HUMBER

510011507

STATE

ilian

• COUNTRY

FICA

COUNTRY

Phi Delta Phi

AME rder of Co1f

HAME

Rotary nternational

Natl, Alfie Assoclation

NAME

Bor Scouts of America

MAME

ISI Recreation Association

STREET AND # LABEG

C777

STATE

COUNTRY

STREET AND NUMBER

STPEET AND NUMGER

STREET AND OLMBER

SINEET AND HLMBER

NAME

STREET AND NUMBER

CITT

STATE

Essaille

CITY

STATE

Varions

CITY

STATE

Various

CITY

STATE

lashingtor,

D.

CITY

C.

STATE

COUATRY

L'EA

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

SECTION Z2. LANGUAGES FOREIGA (STATE DEGRÉE CE FNCEICIENCY AS "SLISMI".

LANGUAGE

REAO

OR "FLUENT")

WRITE

German

LANGUAGE

SPEAK

SZjght

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

ISPEAR

REAS

WRITE

LANGUAGE

TSPELS

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

READ

WRITE

""":

---

## Page 105

SECTION 23.

GENERAL QUALIFICAI

ANE SPECIAL RONGLIOGE CR

OR' CAPERIENCE, BAILS NIGA:

SIT PORTM ARE SUALIPTO

80581124.

ATICHS AS A RESULT OF TRAININO

Specialist in counter Intolluence i operatiara, pralistie and

_-ovalüstion

SECTION 24. SPORTS AND MOBBIES

Fishite, huntine,, firearms

SECTION 25.

EMERGENCY ADDRESSEE

NAME

RELATIOHSHIP

Urs. ElIzabeth i, Harres

SIMIES AND NUMBFH

2027 39th Straet Ali: inshinaton, D. C

SECTION 26. INFORMATION AND_FINAL COMMENTS

NOTE: YOU ARE INFORMEO TNAS CORRECTAESS OF ALL SPATEMEHIS MADE NEREIS WILL BE INVESTIGATEO, AND YOU ARE INVITED

TO MARE ANY CHANGES iCE ADDITIUASI IN YOUR STATEMENTS THAT YOU MAY THIM AUVISABLE.

ARE THERE ANY UNFAIORABLE

109

SECTION 27. CERTIFICATION

CERTIFY THAT THE

FOREGOING

AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY

MAOLEDGE AND BELIEF

AND I AGREE

THAT ANY INTENTIONAL MESSTATEMEN OR OURSSARN AS TO AMA TORPAL FACT WINE CONSTITUTE CROWNER BEEN DISMISSAL.

SIGHED "AT

City

State

DATE

witness

Signature of Applicant

PAGE

---

## Page 106

DECHES

87 Arguet 2947

PERSOÑAL HOSPORY. STATENRIT ON MILLIAM EXNO RANVES

PARSONAL 8

PAREIPAOBA

Birthi Soplenber 13, 1935

Log Rons Mayoville,: Kentualo

Birthe

FLaGOs Daavillo, Intlesa

RELATIVES

ABROAD A

DDUCATIONS

EXPIRIEICE A

Bona

Fley High Schoal, Ferre Hauto, Indtana

Daton:

1928 to 293%

Indiana Univaraity, Dloonagton, Indiana

Datass 1933 to 2937

Damilso Cosetto - serpsper, Danvillo, Irallana

Datess 1931 Be 1923

Indlans Univeralty, Bloonngton, Indlina

•Dates: 1933 to 1937

Practice of Les, Maravilla, Kentualy

Bates t

1937 t

1940-

VaDodon Spacde Agons

Dates:

1940 t0 August 22, 1947

Muna

MUAL TART O

TRAVEL A

MARITAL

STATUS &

Vialted Canada for one month in Saptember 1940 on vocation.

Fobruary 3, 1916

rependenses Bone besides wife

Father dalma Jones Harvin Hointlo, 18.

Birtha. 1380

Places Flening Courty, Ma

Hother Arlam Mannte Rose Mointire - now deceased

Mirths 1806

Placed Plening County, Do

Washingion addrese and salephone manbers

Lashing 396, 36 Coo He Tale ORday 2924,

Washington, De Co

Energensy Addra880e

Marge Kisabeth No Bary

2627 - J960 Stop No No

Washington, Do Co

Tale Ondey 3914

---

## Page 107

SECRET

27 August 1947

PERSONAL, HISTURY STATINKIT ON MILLIAN EINO MARVEL

"PERSOLL

PARENTADE&

Birthi Soptember 13, 1925

Place, Dawvsll8, Indlana

Los Ross Mayuvilla, Kentualy

Father:

Dranan He Harvey

Birtbe

1888

Placo, Danvillo, Indiana

Mothers.

B1r6hs

Sara deal Kang Harve 2ad08 Denniza, Indtana

RELATIVES

ABROAD &

Home

EDUCATION:

aley ligh School, Terre Haute, Indiana

Datea:

1923 to 1931

Indtani Untviralty, Bloodngton, Indiana

Datea:

193J to 1937

Is degree

Danville dasatto - Norapaper, Danville, Inlans

Datos:

1931 to 1933

Indiam Urivoralty, Bloondagton, Indlana

Datess 1933 to 1937

Prictloe of Lan, Mayavillo, Kentualy

1937 to 1940

P-BoJo, Spocilal Agent

Dates:

1940 tO Augur 22, 1947

MILITARY O

Nora

TRAVEL!

Vlalted Corala for one sonth In September 1910 on vacation.

MARITAL

STATUS &

Baried tos Ilisabeth Howe Mointire Harvey

Birthg

February 3, 1916

Place&

Heningaburg, Kentuoky

Dependantas

None bonides site

Father de leis Janes Marvin Hointing 88.

• Births 1880

Places Flering County. D

othernlo1mro Nannto Rosa Holmire - nor decsage

Births 1886

Places Mening County, to

Washington addrass and telephone numbers

637 - 3942 S00, N- 0

ashington, do C

Tale ORchay 2921

Enorgendy Addresseo:

*So Misabeta le Harve

627 - 39th Sto No Y

Fashington, Do Go

5011 ORday 2911

---

## Page 108

"a7 Angun iSit

PERSONAL HISTORT STATELSNT ON MILITAN CUNO HARVEY

PERSONALI

PARTITAOB!

Placer Damlie, Indian

RETATIVES

ABROAD &

EDUCATION:

MILI TARY !

TRAVEL Y

MARITAI.

STATUS &

Father?

Mother!

Births

Ken tooly

"Dranan R. Harvey

91888-

Place& Danville, Indians

S95a deal Kig Har 120001 Denvello, Indiana

Home

i loy Flet School, Terro Hauto, Indiana

Datess 1928 to 1931

Indiana University, Blocalagton, Indiana

Datoes 1933 to 1937

IlB degree

Damille desotto - Newapapor, Danvillo, Indlana

Dates: 1931 10 1933

Indiara if varsity, aloonington, Indlane

Dates: 1933 30 1937

Precios of Lat, Mayaville, Kentuaky.

Datess 1937 8o 1940

Y-Bolo, Special Agont

Datoss 2940 to luzuat 22, 1947

Sona

Vialted Canada for ona month in September 1940 on vacation.

Birthe Fäbruary 3, 1916

Dependanta: Mone besidaa wife

Father 17-la8 James Marvin Hointire, St.

Births 1380

Places. Plening County, 1o

Isther laler Mario Rose Haintire - nor deceased

Births 1686

Place! Pening County, 1yo

Washington addrosa and talephone musbers

2677 - 396k S8e, No No

wanhington, le Co

Tale ORdrug: 293k,

Energensy Addroaces:

Mrs. Elinabeth Ho Harvey

2627 - 39ch Steg Ho Ho

Hashingtos, Do Co

fel.

Orchay 291k

SECRET

---

## Page 109

SIONAI

at August I947

PERSONAL HISTORY STATIST OT VALIAN KIRO FURVEY

Ta40al

PARZArPACE i

PATRICE

11

SUNITA?

Pith Me to terriy

Birthe

Places Denvello, Indiana

Mothes o-

Birthi

Sara Jonal KIng: HarTo acos Denvello, Indiana

Homi

wilay High School, Terro Haute, Inclane

Datess

1930 to 1931

Indtens Unt rarelty, Moonington, Indlane

Datess: 1933 to 193%

Anville Danette - Mamapoper, Darivilio,. Intana

Datons: 1931 10 1933.

Indians Inversity, Bloodagton, Indlana

Dataa1 1913-$0 2937

praction a I, laynville, Kentualy.

Datess 1937 to 1910

Polelon Spardel Agail

Dates:

I91O to August 22, 1947

Nons

Voltod Canada for one months in septomber 1940 on vasation.

Bliths Fabruary 3, 1916

Dopendenta: Nona besidea 51fo

Father do laus James Harrin Nointlo, 580

Birth: 1880

Plening Countr, to

Motherin lans Hannde Rong Maintirg now decenned

Bliths 1006

Place? Mowing County, lo

Washington adires and telephone minbars

2627 - 3984 S8o1 Fo He

wanhington, Do Ca

Tole ORdany 291k

Drosgensy Addasusee :

8g. isabeth Ho Harvey

2627 - 39ch Stog He Wo

waahtagton, De Co

Tels ondury 2001

SECRET

is to at

---

## Page 110

CONFIDENTIAL

SSCUSITY OFFICE

Intestigation Report

"CONFIDENTIAL

Date: Cotober ®, 1947.

Number:

se8lt

Subject: BARBY, Willian King

To:

CPo

(3).

1. Investigation directed-by: "

"HEC

Sources-of Information: 080 :

2.

3. Remarks

Recommendation:

§FOURITY APPROVAL

RECOMMENDED, THOUGH SURJECT

INFORCAL". ON AT SOME

•dE DATE.

INTERVIE? WAIVED.

SAS THE APPLICANT E •ES UPON DUTY AITHIN

WAY THUM ANUVE DATE, THIS APPROVAL BECOMEB

INVALID.

By.

rHe

security officer

ROBERT KA CUNNINCHAN

• CO*

ducson H. Lightsey

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTiNI

117849

##- 101

DEC SBA*

---

## Page 111

LICHORANDULI -

Res

#1211am King Harvey

wa:.

A complete and thoroigh Investigation has been conducted

on this

employes and he was found suitable for employment in this

.....a

---

## Page 112

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

. =•

TO

FROM

SUBJECT!

Chief, Communications

Aeting

Chief, Security Division

BASSY, willen tins

395h

DATS, 8 Anguet 1952

In reply to your memorandun this lo to advise that subject meets

the current requirements for cryptographic clearance and le approved, for

such duties as of this date.

C.P. Sira

E. P. Geisa

Rong

SECRET

---

## Page 113

Percoral i and Ageny Talia

,...

---

