# 104-10186-10082

## Page 1

104-10186-10082

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTÉLLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT "Julio" (an alias)

CSC1-316/00555-65

8 February 1965

1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DATE O1964

INFO.

• Do Not Reproduce

CS-311/00115-64

(page 9)

8 July 1964

PLACE a Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION, JOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 196€•

Headquarterg Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Julio" is the Ecuadorian desk officer in the Seccion Sur

(South American Section) of the Departamento de Liberacion

Nacional National Liberation Department • LN in the Direccion

General de I teligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

and green eyes.

Hotel) "I Vedado, Habana, Cuba (in front

of the llabana Hilton

Headquarters Comment

1 .

The

records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

"Julio."

5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

DIA

I NAVY

REP

CINCLANT CINCSO E

AIR

I&NS

INSA

TAX

T oce

TFBT 2

(Nadas Field distribution Indicaled by "#".)

INFORMATION REPORT KINEORMATION REPORT.

UFGA 19053(14Jan65)

HI/SA/EOBLIL

WEL5/8

CULA

LUE.

LI- 2254; UFGA 10445

MI/SA/NIOR

CI/REA

(14Dec6-4)

WH/SA/R

WII/SALCI

5

RID/AN

L/MASHA

YO PROJECT (ASMUG/ 1)

ICSCI-316/00555-65

¡COORDINATING

RESTABING

TOTALE WH/SA & (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

SIAISON #

BLS: LD: SAk

4/90

---

