# 104-10186-10065

## Page 1

104-10186-10065

INFORMATION

Thia massertal d'atame tafora

14 USE EAR 19S and 304

COUNTRY Cuba

SURECT "Rafael" (an allas)

REPORT

INFORM

TION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Maranor Dater of the United Blass Mubin the menning at the lisonMo lana Tile

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oily

-Do Not Reproduc

REPORT NO. CS CI316/0069465

DATE DISTR

11 February 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INFA.

1965

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACO January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS LNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOUNCE GRADINOS AME DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1960.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personallty

information provided by the source

and includes supplemental

• Information from the records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

"Rafael" works in the HI Department (Department of Technical

Operational Support) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) and is one of the

secret writing technicians who deciphers correspondence from

"Rafael" is the nephew of Guillermo ARASTAGUIA

(Bubject of CSCI-316/00643-61 of 11 August 1964).1

Headquarters Comment

1. The above Subject. is not identlcal with the Subject of

CSCI-316/00-130-65

February 1965.

The records of

this Agency reveal no identiflable information on "Rafael."

4

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

oLA

I ARUT

I NAVY

INSA

REP CINCLINT

CINCSO = TENS

1X46X

1 Oca

mehaded there outer

don locateren

FBI 2

INFORMALLON RERORT INFORMATION REPORT

Leila

fix 1838

WILISA-FOR, I: NE.

HHL/SA.R

2 CU/REA

13; IE

$0 PROJECT (AWJUG/1)

CSCI-316/00694-65

RID/IS

TOTALS WHISA 8 (1). MS 1 (2), BI S,

RID 1

* * A 9

41A180n*

19-5-1

ORM NO.

03S0LITE FRITIOTS BOITIONS

1301

480

---

