# 104-10133-10355

## Page 1

104-10133-10355]

r..

#cadgaorters

77: 1952

527338

excusal agent in Gaudge

12EUDIG, Coraid P.

42320233

= - 9015

1, Tes cli contie verbal assipment ni this maitar en

Jou Orase on 2 robrtary 1952. Readquartera Mas designated

c"eles or crigin.

2, C1 the above date, you vere arised that the los

Moles Jeurby Serizes office had iscovered a 045 saliber

To so sistol, sertal 1594991 - 5t, iron a car in to i0s

Angeles nora on 30 january 1962.

shortly thereatter, captioned

5:0,20e, "var rosides aù 1209 3. Atlantis Boulevard, Alhambes,

Caromit, appeared at the shoricals offlee to slain bre pistal.

"cubed boat he tes d Counth agent mho vas oh a traing

musin in connection with an assigmrant zined at ba.

resecaentig, this natter mus brougat to the attention

and trab the Jeodor coquestad the Corints derise to Tesp

123

scient cob co the veroneross talle. they auberated to

•09

The Lantasy or the Subjeoi

You were ai30 Enigmad

cue be tocal to DD difice led egresual an interest in

¿no 2000 19 the presumülon tbai said teapon na? to 1xy

14C905

a Sendenziars 11ias leflect that the siojece das coin

1n nan 1:37 aù t03 Angelos, Gelicomia. Be sorortedly

quared in the 8. 5. Marine Cors Izm 1054 • 1253; Bre Cuban

i und dir force 1959-1000, ad was mu instrctor ritai

Tatia

anarcos outfie.

moject has displayed a keen intarest

in throans and para-military type socivities. Tou tora

nsed chot loaderartors Mies combained no recori of major

car ning been amloyed ith Gerra in any capacity.

141/5

APPASED FOR RELEASE 1993

1 ten 1. 59-

CIA NISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAN

---

## Page 2

13 To

-3922?

5. Pha tes NOBLEs 2ao OPPICa, as an suriliary Creion,

wrested to ronder the lolaring suppor:

1i lus inzelas, Colleanin

3.

Sontact the orest Goillun fiabd office to ascercain

it the aroranentioned lacta are entirely accurate.

Cotatte

a possibli, a cry of tha Serialis repor

concoming this saitor.

6. Iou vers questei to talmhonically apprise readquartarg

aê tina results ci your irrestigation.

7. This 31li also confar your verbal rebig oi 5 february

1952, iktei reclocted in substance trai the Subter, did not claim

employment tich ochack, but that he had outained said reason

tea Guita is Aleul, Florida, approcalay nine months ago.

B. En 5 Fabriary. 1962, jou were furthar isquested to har

stori, to datamine too Sirinstatues Jumpurian, 330 2rC0333-

Hcak or 12382570n.

?. ¿aur iiiven ispor is tais aactar jaria da foraried

co Beadquarters as acon as possible.

PA0.

Abbachnent:

ComboL Lards

6 ° Seb, 1952

2

---

## Page 3

T:4090 -6-11 13 53

Offer Memorandur • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Sin, chlo?

F27228

DATE: 0716.52

0.3

"distane

25652121

3.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

miGraDi tos Chiai, 20/Cocvacta

wara?

ian taroi: Calano!, 2001 403, 7717 1 J009r

5 3/302

432 29 229

imolto mogie Ghis 1D0N33 d721302068 1602 Cristig

epig nautiched coleot.

incine Controre deiddl sortar 06a coring 2021h

alian co 026 121222618 17cad

Ha 1200r? 13 toraried 6a 194.00 CO 600 779066 297

i Magar

W0.699 10b 416022008 3

", io jaminer crion ti bo baron in tais doccer anlast

Goin

il S9

4.

2014126;

and O Coarany 1902

r..

---

## Page 5

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

(CATEGORY DI REPORT)

(FIELD OFFICE)

CASE NO.

29 229

HAAID, Gorald P.

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION

2: 7 February 1902

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

15 February 1952

119.030A2T335

BEPORT MADE. BY

Daln B. Criteside

CHAPACTER OF CASE

I SD/5

APPROVED:

SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE

DISTRIBUTION:

1045 - 1

JAM: - i

F. 60 616 per

PREVIOUS

5.

---

## Page 6

SYNOPSIS

it Los ingeles, California:

Benst LarZACHER, Chief, DEalisi

el operabions, advised that sabott, Cerald P. MaNio,

has been

Rivin

to his office since approxirately Catober 1900 and icon tal

to tina has furnishad roports anl information concoming Cubar

activities.

Ch 30 January 1962, SUBJECI appeared at to Los Angeli

County Sheriff's Office and claired a lio-calibar autoratic pistol

which had hasn found in a parked automobile.

avion the Seriff's birice thab the sun had boon isouad i :

by in beneal Intelligence Agensy in Miani, ilorida.

Upon interriew by tr. Idiao lan's office, SuBJECT fur

intomatico ceasemaing his possession and acquisition of thi.

230r.

Details are set forta.

Atenoled as Ebisito 1 and 2 ana reporto cocain rat

ration on CoRdoT from hr. LelANCHE?' ortico and do Echibi

a rusort fron the Los angelos County Suerict's Office on tha

noova-mantioned pisiol incident.

6.

REPORT NO.-

F0Rg 1125

1?1

---

## Page 7

14-0000

#29 229

15 February 1962

Cairon

¿ ios Annales, California:

On 2 rebruary 1952, Mr. irnst LaIBACHER, Chiaf, Citie

of Coerations,

11S

intervieved in his office, 403 West &th

street, concerning

the SubInet, cerald P. lentilid, and

furnished the rolloring information:

SUBJLCT has been known to tir. LEIBACHER'S offico since

approxinately October 1960 when he voluntarily contacted the

office and furnished cortain information concerning activitio

in. üuba.

From time to time since then SUBJECT has furnished

alditional information which has been forwarded to Hashirgt?,

•D. C. in tho for of reports of interest to the agency.

no. islACteR furnisned copies oi an initial undated

report and biographical data containing background information

on SuBJECt and a report dated 31 Karen 1961, wich are attecied

as ischibios 1 and 2.

LEIDACHE: advised Paul &. IGiDRICKSON of his office

had had many conticts with the Substor in the Los angales a.

prico to nis (h6:D:U0x500's) transfer to tuoir Seattle offse:.

Sino: thai timo ago. W. D. enr2ou01 of isincred's office ::

osch designated for contact mito the suaJair.

Within the past to wooke, SuB-ECT furnisnad caus

viti a large envalove markei, "Cubann Revolucion", or sone

such legend on it, and it contained all sorts of plans fur

training Cuban guerillas. SUBJEST clained to have been rcking

with the Office of Naval Intelligence and said that he nac

also been in contact with the Federal Burueu of Investigation

in Miani, Floridi.

According to LEIBICHER, SUBUCCI has never claimed to

nave

worked for tha Contral intelligence igency.

hr. Lullen wont on to relate tuat dia 30 Jonuary 1062,

nis

oftion corsivod a telophone

call fron the Los angeles

-1--

7.

---

## Page 8

і I5aй

Counti Shoricto Ornice to the etreet that a h5-caliber

niteratic partol hod boch final in i

balerginy to one Heslia DODD and that shortly thereafter

Joint ind contacted the Sheriff's Uffice and cleined this

mood was his own. SUbBCh reportedly irforned the

spire's Office that the gun had been issuad to him by

tro dantral Intelligence Agency in Mini, Morida.

Attached as ichioit 3 is a copy of the los angeles

County Scariff's report on this incidant, which was obtained

FicH

o. Lutherer.

On Mabruary 1952, Mr. LETBACHER was again contacted

nd advised that Sgt. PirBulei of his office had interviewed

dis SURICT on 5 Fnuruary 1052 and obtained the following

incomptien concering his possession and acquisition of thr

core-nantioned pistol.

manoe claimed that he was issued the 45-caliber

becable discol about le months ago by a Cuban named V/

who had cutained permiusion from one artilro,

Ob. Sos: was reported to have been with the

TITt: ot Ng der groug and to have spent considerable tina

It was suavest's understanding that Sos.

??: Anoin to the Central. Intelligence agency.

lun for possibly ünree) guns were issued to Sußubei

ind his colorto, one of them

a former Os5-typa, laned Dives,

i was also maid io be connected ith ins "30th of Norarb.

cough, BUBubOt stated taat those weapons nad been issued

to then because other underground uban groups in Miami had

coor "giving them trouble" by putting sugar in gas tanks

and tossing small grenades in their quarters.

SUBJECT claired that he lof nis 45-autonatic pistol

in Miuni shon he cons to the los ingeles area several weeks

ago, but that one ot his colleagues, who arrived in los Angolos

shcrly before the police incident,

had brought the gur with

SUB.TSCT had then left the gun in DODD'S barbor shop

co volley Bimlevird.

-2=

jur

:..

8.

---

## Page 9

had lifted the gun fron the barber shop and had "glanter"

it in ir. DODD'S autonobile. Ha tren told Mr. DODD (tice

barner? not to expect any sleep that night and called üha

Chorift's

sifice to suggest that they search this automobile:

SUBCD stated that since he had requested Mr. DudD

nou to acrit any knowledge of the gun, he (subsur) nad to

presunt hirself at the Shariff's Office and tell them that

the gi was his in order to get la. Dobi "off the hook with

the

police".

SUBJECT added that as far as he knew he was no longer

in trouble with the Sheriff's Offica over this incident

but scated that nu does not expect to get the gun back.

Attachnerto:

lixhibits 1, 2 and 3

EHR: CVC

-3-

---

## Page 10

TERRY P. RACING, M

SE-US MARIE HO SERVED IN CUBIN ARMY AND TE FCROR,

FODZUARY 1959 - JUNE 1960

1. i telopione call recently was received by E. Leibacher, Chit of

thr Los Angelos Finld Office, from a men who identified hinself is Jury

Mornings Jr.,

ul 2433 Wist Valley Blrd., Alhanbra, Coliforni::

Wring reported that he was an ix-us karine who had recentlyr

i the US iron Suba whore he had served sons 18 months in the Cia

lnraire0y Regiont) and the Cihon die More, (sue coclone 7:"i.

Aric

2.

on I1. ceo, 1960 (and subsequently on 12 Oct, and 21 Dei. 121)

i.: wicken of thr tos Angeles Ofrico contacted Morning, whip retu

#Toningo

W: 2u9e high schocl in tho wildle of his junior were i dra

attaine Corre Centiated 29 122. 1954, O,406,267), Here::

1033

in the curle of surgeont

and Juring the litter portior or his to:

Macraged on 17 Ger. 1933, he cutended Bainbridge Naval deadeny Tragertory

Mada Clairod to hive soon accopied into the Naval Ray viticer

Perming Corpo oub-enurn to his sotoriance aù Buinbridge end b. moscodly

nad bleed to aticad the Univereity of liosouri.

3. He charged hin wind and decided not to rubor the PROTe pest.

woman: in matri do engage in Spacial Forens type activity. Me wid

the ho tried sore al tinoo to obbein broining ot this too it Fo, Bea53

nad Fi. Berning bor ar wes not micoccorol. Ho the docided to luare ths

acidi did sorred the balance of hio tour do the Mwal deadongs asp tie,

Heated.

lia limring asturned to caliionia in Cotover 1958 and vort de varions

id jobs inclosing heavy labor, as he put it i

Le bony air a laced on or dhat le pot i059, errato

Do Pooo 1959. Has consoss ror auirg to cuba don not compietely time i lie

ee iber for dous the reiter notiere they are coug

inde nint), but cong the coaste tadords die are dietrie?

Al mare.

do gain experiones in this field.

me opportunity to comoine the above nuntloned desire it!!

identifiont ion with a "just" cause.

C.

i insivo to see for hiaseli that vas going ca in duck; 1oà

coibly to carvo a nicho for hinuir inca tich he night i bi:

to inture laid dogelopotts.

i di my races Muting racero dr blutiod his my into in: Cuban tos

to do cose cinchioo having in en more án the US. (Ho cline tote

controled ordicials in the Caoon Counuell: cifice in Los Angelm Dris io

lin departure col duo to have tal. ed to a fun 2ich of July borint tabirs

including a (Go:) Tapenos, lit received no help thero.)

10.

---

## Page 11

im and iriard a pass for him.

He salled to a numbar of Cuba.:

clicando (Pos) Castille and kaj. Cuido Cienciegos.

The land rod hin

riço Burbust Gonaa, e F5. Euning Erained officer (2/c: 1947)

Pirabross Pagiant.

%.

tajor Borionet reportcoly did ao lile Hoairg or at hin in his

Patas te on officer.

"Capitos detotling hiu ir

11je Borbonet rohiood torscept hir ac"itler so

non; mal, de & Sergeent cone tae end co Prbruary 1:

-ing

atam Cch tho utt ontal Deceber 1958, H heleed troin pero::";

arat

:Santolio de 2oc Banos dir Forou Diss nod later net GenEa

35 malos douthesse or Havana on the contral tat.

C0-B 1000063

(Sce

For FPI

rivanee copice of @21id YPI

crimind reou lid: mill be formarded, if cusiend.)

Enamoop Higient mas Obriously bosor? down in training and

In de cher 2059 Min rosto do the Cutan der ter on

P: mus stations at Sun Julian nir Force Ba: (Innctivo)

shers be toy pitrols ad helped train talilia turing the dag ad lid sous

rocomnalasance pairolo against the encicovolucionarios ai night. le obtainad

• 1.c fron the Cubar Adr Force An mia-una 1960 (bebucen D0 mt 19 une)

onl Cauley lo2b Mirano abou 21 Aug. 1900. He fion do Lexico Cily alIa

coted thore nabil 30 ug. 1060 thon ho enterod the US vin San 205Di20, Taxas.

9. nile in the Cuost: Arry, Honning bocane iwoled in acaber os

interestor in counting an irrasis cf Nicacagua

1.c: 011n

"ot the baske cutiliue is rostildes follors.

has t5 de Maring's Groogues

inica.

somisition où m: for ati-Castro continuardes and elso to abarasa Castro

be tiring hia poliocalle to a more one designed to overtion Paradunt paroce

in Ricarag la.

J0. Tho expedition naver leit Clon and Forfan's min tere caturod in

Cragiy soubled during dipbriber 1959.

Maning alleged thot thi, -hortive

expittion dos ti interested in Nicaraguan activities in Cusa

"nar out more abock hem both for his pun backgraul qui tocar to

Protone tiü son in to Pratroop Regine. Mo thon inimiated como mina

101t09 Giro 111- 1

T1. laming mencioned contaci with Curator Iabo2, Do nascindir 619

^: h

-acü

onio to botin Terragano in Caba mior 10 3madinn Ticragua:

•ELD a DoaCon Natione 6034000

or a cuim :

hann ms flon to the Dounioon Reabire; era.

Fridia 12,

1.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

occurrid bites Frisbonind Frion in. Doccuber 1659.

1i. Muring was crosted by the Cuban Gu? on or about 15 Mir 160

1d with perioars and l mold baroned whoa trering descilar

Mused To won in the Micragual horeoint located in Honkasy. I 1.r0s

cahit for dooud lind digs and tion rolersed.

frixie,

¿e: codor to proron, tes robarn to Hoodaros and/o" Nicaragus.

th: lurior of i covlution cy column (ironto Rurolnsioannin Sa ti

i?!

montly ma caped in elecents of the Houduren Amy.

Alaire: 111.12

crod in Pricipalps when they turned over sore counded Mic.":.

M88 0o8:3.5

in the Mondarin Ant"

I!. Thoro to du cioune were canovad front & loakuren DittE: 140r001

undar that my 10-26

CIA or FBT dificials wore instrunental in boring these too con treated oo

k1.• US.

Hire dates the in sis opinion ther both merely

.cw1:30

ni recriting for

Treign goverma.

15. Bonairo elijas to bo sterlino be in aabicination poo 10e: 20

itsi

1203

cockte who have bold him that the Counter-on Coness Corps Core'

ty Communiots and no cnorius of the Ore.

Haming concrood thet both the

Inaliand brothers tol Friniones were wra nuch aöraid that any wen

cipituld in Nicaragua would merely coon the door for the Nionraga: Coumn-

ists in Cube to move in and exploit the chaotic riturion to thes co lomfito.

1ó. Morning my have decidol to contact Cli because of rancle 212:

uy a agi. ¡io Busto eud By Di. Francisco Frisiones.

Busco, an co-Brid':e

solin no mos a fugitive fron the Castro ragine chori Haiing Tre 40a;

reportodiy mid

that. Cil helped out in Guatchali and tiat it rowil

Tood thing teths ccall trap oub in Cobe. Dr. Pricions statery t:

Licago hat inen con to rigab in contacting US Secretar or S51

Marts in an itosage to clici support for Jacagors Nicouguan crow

107en.n6.

12.

---

## Page 13

₴:

'''!

actiribles

17. miede is ditricult to asauss Haning's true notiv: torr past

mud poseisly de ll more difricult to ascortain horta

logabiso die, de ioes aponer the: ho might be nserol aither aura tie

Posi conversations to dite (three short sossiono?

ii'3

tut Heoning de nor so closely allied with his Nicaraguon friti

20

nord fante

insable lo concentrais his attention clicohor.

!:; in-

carank in Caraidd. Foreas tupe nativity conears to transend ol

bares.6, en de gob bly lould pot borttubo to pedma to Cubeta

Mi sitionalo in diaguoing nis competion dih tho te di noven

Sert diccin od nuciliganes operacions connected sath revolk

inver

t: ing tochoins that the bo choold atilier a mance co pred

3l mi cunly soage,

ittain positiong ot real inflosace albia

"medienda.008.

mi no unently cotangt to channel the dorenrat ls cativities tim

are tost favorite

or al norst leack dobrinntel to US interes'

the invitatoe call of Fracident Sono. ia Nicaragua and, ferda":, 'i

thi; ina mll ig borghe mont bi the Portinez broblero.

escoynnee bhe canguro or Coramnist teterovee inherent in the orto. si

Provident, Senoso, and he hopeo that the Us vil t rier to prati

pronably through the te of poplo like lingolf.

19. Herming mintaine that he is "first and forenost" antes,

tunt hi trus logaltd conins with tiis contry.

This ky

comond h6 hrs 47y3d 110 iu bio post. Me arpecie to ba 2161: 20216 2060

siop badinis in Jonocratio princialog,

19

---

## Page 14

NAME:

HENNING, Jarry Patrick Jr.

ÜiRT: 1 March 1937 Los Angeles, Calif.

SEx : Mule

CICIKT SHIP: US

wid-pob 59 to 21 Alg 60

Cuba.

Served with Cuban Army, Eux • Dec 1959

Servei with Cuban Air Force, Dec 1959 -

June 1050

Remained in Havana until 21 M, 1950

Mexico City, Exact address not inown.

2433 West Vailey Blvd,. Alhanbra, California

21 11G 69 tO 30 AUB 60

30 Aug 60

Lresent

Bx2LO2 D22:

19 Abe 54 to 17 Oct 58

1l Oct 53 to miJ-job 59

mid-Eeb 59

to mid-Jun 60

mil• jun 60 to 21 Aug 60

3! Aug 60 to present

FDUCA1I3:

E! Monte Union Pigi school

8l Monta, Califvenia

US Marina Corps - No. 1438247

Odd jobs at Los Angeles, Californi,

Served with Cuban Army and Air Force

Unemployed, residing in Havana

Unemployed.

Left in middle of junior year tr

join US Marine Creps.

Enclosure to I4-23939 (00-A-(S))

14

---

## Page 15

+ 55=1

31. March 1961

SUBJECT: Gerald P. Herming, Jr. Moves to liani to Engage in Anti-Castro

ipaiarius

1. Gerald Patrick Henning, Jr. (erroneously referre: to in C0-4(5) -3, 170, 536

as Jercy P. Henning, Jr.) Informed Hendrickson of the Los Angeles Fieli office

that he was moving to Miani, Florida and would arrive there on Mondsy, 20:1r

61.

Hizing stated that he was going to contact Jimmy Gentry, 953 S.W. Lann St.,

Api. 8, Miami, Florida (Telephone: FRanklin 4-3255) and

that these two nen were

tà..: going to proceed with a plan of action aired at orgainizing a and group

of professionals' (experienced revolutionaries) who would attempt to conduel:

certain reconnaissance operations on the mainland of Cuba via paracine: drops

and eicher lighü plane or water pick-ups. Hemming also stated he wanted to

do what he could in Miami to attempt to unite the anti-Castro forces these and

also to lessen the influence of a number of "mercenaries" who had joined various

of those movements and were doing it more harin

much of the available money.

2.

The available background information on Herming. was furalahed in

L4-2.3939 (00-4(5) -3,170,536).

Some additional Information is included

the attached Application for Conmission or Warrant Rank, US Navy or New!!

Reserve, filled out by Henning during his tour with the US Marine forps and

dac=l 23 Jun 58. Heuming also clains to hovo been officially chested ou

on nunerous aircraft while serving with tho Cuban Air Foice during ric irst

half of 1950 including the L-20, EF-47, Ar-ú, Cessna 170 and Piper Printar.

E: does not have a la commercini or privaco pilos license. In aidici.:, ":

reporscaly maintained an interest in parachuting during his rocent

Los Angeles (September 1960-liarch 1961), and claimed to have jumped ar leas:

once a monch with one of the local parachute and skydiving elubs.

3. The above information is passed on because it appears likoly chat the

Agency may wish efther (1) to make certain that no amateur reconnaissance

operations directed at Cuba are undertaken, or (2) in one way or anocher to

guide such activities to maximize their usefulness.

4. On the basis of several debriefing sessions with Henning, Hendrickson

is inclined to believe that Henming is both sincere and scrious in his dosi..

to assist the US Government, provided that this can be accomplished throug!

his continuing to act as a "soldier of fortune". It is alvays possible, o: tla

ochor land, that he is still loyal to the Cuban Govaruent and at some future

date will atterpt to embarrass the US.

The information which Herming furnished during his stay in Los lageles

was disseminated in the following reports:

00-B-3, 169,985

3,169

, 982

3,170, 124

(Evaluated 5, 1 & 6, 3)

3

1 &

2, 2, 2

26, 3)

15.

---

## Page 16

00-B-3,170,1%1

3,170,616

3.172,187

"3. 119,740

3,179,355

00-1(8) -3,170, 536

3177199

3, 170,528

3, 170,614

3, 170, 615

00-1-3, 178,533

a review of these reporcs should give

night prove useful.

better idea

of whether or not lanning

= end

Enel:

Form,

•"Application for Commission

or Warrant

lank, U.S. Navy or Naval Reserve"

-Ger all

Patrick lieuning, Jr.

..- 2.

16.

---

## Page 17

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT

F002: It. R. L. Wilber

Terple DE

Date: 1-30-62

File No. 3-781,031

TO:

Sheriff Peter J. Pitches;

(through channels)

NUBJRCE: FOUND GUN

A= 1:00 til, 1-30-52, acting on information iron the San Gabriel Police Deyartient,

who had

in turn received a phone call from a man identifying himself only as

Tony, Deputies Ronald Warren and Robert Stewart, Car 54, proceeded to 7443

knee italiman Avenue, Souch San Gabriel, and contacted a Heslie Dodd. Shay

from Mr. Dodd to search his automobile, a 1951 Packar!

and discovered a Remington Rand 45

caliber automacic

pisirl, serial # 1504331, under a nattress in the back seat of the car. lit.

Dadd at the time stated he knew nothing about the automatic and that he had no

idea how the pistol came to be in his car.

*c. Dodd said he knew a loony, with

non he hiad had trouble over money matters, but he could not recall Tony's

last nans or address.

Ar. 2:30 Mi, 1-30-52, & Gerald l'. Hemming Ji. of 3843 East Blanche St., Pasadana,

a32019a Pacale Scacion and

informed us that the 45 aucomatic was his.

lic.

Pausing oratel the automatic was issued to him the the U. S. Coveranens Coarcal

incallierce doracy in Moni, Florida approximately nine nontes ago aul tha ha,

In Demiar, bas baen in truiniog for a froe-lance organization regraling a Cuban

investor.

Mr. ilerning stated he was a friend of Dodd's and that he had lude the

pistol at Mold's Barber Shop and that it har disappeared from there.

This datali contactec Central Intelligence Agency, a lie. DiVanon, tho said ho

could neither confirm nor deny the issuance of this pistol to Mr. lemming; that

ne would appreciate no publicity be givon the incident and that he would coatact

It. Uilber of this detail tomorrow morning with further information.

17.

---

