# 104-10217-10116

## Page 1

104-10217-10116

SECRET,

Rermal

Forgalez

y darmary 1562

MAZCRAIDOR TORS Kl/WSTSRAnO

SUaET

Oventua Accoanta

Io HOUIPl - In duly 1960, Hoedgnartors adviend Seatson

Dagota that subjoct n1ea tre aldan ronld de travaling lo FEPaDu

to aorno the poot of bavy chies la lo IRL Ulrvctorato and vins

asd mtance vas reguestedo soutino difMcallias folleed

Inelnding no sanding be the F9s anill Finally In A8at 2560 180

Statson bad lo advanco fanda for Susject ind one compardon

Incladias 1150 cach roguirod by the Lonenlato as eridenco ol

polvancyo there lo no indieation in te tilos an to aulbor

thio. 1300 uno to be abcarbed ao a AUBARI exponse or ubolher 18

VaD tO Do rupeyod. HONVIT, MnCO laS WE, MLUIFI sas Docona

• socurity rimt.

Ko 10 conmidared an orrartuntot and asoociates

VLA pOOpLO NLRA NtCA KUBAII idedos no contact. Coo of theee

Individoalo la describod an nonding only tio 1l1 satoot encno to

unke pablle statanerta anbarrasainz eud barnfol to LUBAiT Intiro0tE.

Ascendinely, 18 10 i ecomendod Uoat laia attanco bo mitton oft

nitheul attempting lo socuro ropaynante

/3. MsAllal - Punda Mero pasDad to AxCAlInl ty tDe prlnciTal

ACent IOr USO In the NcAlE pojoch, lonVar, an COLVantiOnel

palitical actien on lho lubor front Docai sone and soro dirfieult,

Bbase fanda sade Phals vay IncrosciAzly IEtO lhe Rii NàT Chesi Rinco

JscALImI mao sational co ondinator for luis erganiBalIon. PinelJy.

Uho Rating oner os tta laber nevesent by the ioncuniosa Loñt so road

opan lo oppondilen alomento ascept that of sabotago end eledontsa

netlvityo In ApPll 1S61, Cordon BIRAZlis, peincipel afent adta ubon

NCALI, uae 1n centect mon arrested sod ullimatoly deportad. Trare

was no farthar cantect sith Alillll fallong the arTost of MLLARIdS.

The fando that had been paosed to hin vare prosurably uood by lhe MNP

morgrvnd ant mnt hate bono gone long berara 13o lim of Mlil l'a

arrest the ond ol Saplesbes 1961. Accondinely, iti/l/PA-PICP 18

reguerting thes the sun of 1840.82 eharzod esalaot tha asant be

tharefore sot de serured.

29 des d bpa y to oS 00 Do pasoe to diea ees

SECRET,

L

---

## Page 2

I SEC

no co rs Agnore end ether Onbant. Tho plan ealled fer the no

al DIn'lona's plans pilored by billo Thia ma changed hon 18 uni

F1203523

born to dabble stamimly is unlo polities sa lini, apparat

beforo a congreenional committoo ent anceded in uncing himpole

and moot. Mli me not in contact ant Eas

smally conniered

16 preserablo nol to regiose cortect sala him to

116000/001 650 DADA VERON Some cia Lapa,

the advanoe be mitten aLe

Stammerd be Start

(5 Jan 63)

Matributions

0r1g & 1 - Addresse

1 a Mal/ Registry

1 - 201 11200

SECRET

tass

---

## Page 3

14-00000

15 November 1968 m 2895

the time at the interview of AlCALL/l, the names

ant had dy his were checked out in WHa/RE carde

and is In Supp cards. In nearly all inatances

here as no identification of the Individuals; in a

elatively lew instances, there was a possible

identification, but nothing conclusive. It was

Falt that Subject had talked a lot but said little.

---

