# 104-10073-10155

## Page 1

1104-0073-10155

St. Petersburg, Pla.

October 5, 1961

Dear Buah:

Three weeks

ago I finally left Cube,

fortunate

Iy with no trouble to speak of.

I have been visiting

family

in St. Pete, after having spent some time in

Hiam

ni getting my bearings among the "active oxiles", and

expect to head Northe in about & week. I plan to spend

a few days in fashington and then go on to New Iork.

I would

like very much to kees in touch with the Cuband

situation

and to remain as active as possible, within.

the linitations of whatever job I cen get.

Although a lot of water has gone over the das

about which the less said

the bet=

I remember your comments about the feasibility of

en arrangement along these lines. I would therefore like

to encourage fron you any suggestions you may be able

this respect. I am naturally very interes

ded in receiving

of discussing the si

tuationand my possible contribution with qualified per

song

in Weshington. What

do you think?. So fer my only

contacts

are Senator Smathers, whom I hope to

see here

in Sto

Pete on the

9th,

and a man naned Reskin who a

swered & letter I rrote Bunady Bundy

asking for an aD-

pointment.

Raskin is

on Bundy's stail.

Bush, you may be out of touch dith the Cuban

sroblen,

but in

CaSE you

are not and have any ideas

I

will

appreciate hearing fron you. I expect to be here

another

week

and then drive up in a little W . bought

in

Mieni.

In washington I will be

staring at my cousin's

пері%

Terest

de Zaldo Meyer,

9710 Persimmon Ireer Road, 06, 06

Sethesca,

Maryland.

In eDy event I will look forward

to seeing you soon. Bost

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3

4084

096

91

---

