# 104-10422-10024

## Page 1

104-10422-10024

From a review of the Agency's file on Lee Harvey OSWALD,

it becomes apparent that the Agency and its field stations, parti-

cularly in Mexico. City and Miaimi, were not unmindful of the possi -

bility that OSWALD did not act alone. During the first few weeks

after the assassination, Headquarters, upon at least three occa-

sions, exhorted the Mexico City. Station to continue "all your

coverage of the Cuban and Soviet installations . . .". On 28 Novem

ber 1963, the Chief, WH/3, told the Mexico City Station that "there

should be no let down in your efforts to follow all leads and in

vostigate all facts which bear on this case. We have by no means

excluded the possibility that other as yet unknown persons may have

been involved or even that other powers may have played a role."

(Emphasis added.) [DIR 85655, 28 November 1963] On 30 November,

Headquarters asked the Mexico City Station to follow all leads and

tips. "The question of whether OSWALD acted solely on his own has

still not been finally resolved." (Emphasis added.) [DIR 86064,

30 November 1963]

And on the 12th of December 1963, Chief, WH/3,

again asked the Mexico City Station to "continue to watch for

Soviet and Cuban reaction to investigation of assassination, evi-

dence of their complicity, signs they putting out propaganda about

case.! (Emphasis added.)

"FYI only, Soviet intelligence in India

had letters sent to . . . (US) leaders demanding full investigation

of case." [DIR 88680, 12 December 1963]

The Mexico City Station, however, had already initiated a

thorough review of its holdings in an attempt ascertain what infor-

mation was available on Lee Harvey OSWALD, his presence and his

activities in Mexico City. This review Euralgaup the feet that

Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national employed by the Cuban Consulate,

had dealt with OSWALD during his known visits to the Consulate on

27 and 28 September. In response to a suggestion from the Station,

the Ministry of Gobernacion arrested Silvia DURAN and her husband,

Horacio, on 23 November 1963. [MEXI -7037 (IN

- 2. 23 November

1963] Later the same day, an official of the Ministry informed

---

## Page 2

13-00000

mazo;

- 2:-

dess

Cabaro

the Station that Silvia DURAN was completely cooperative and had

given a written statement attesting to two visits by OSWALD to the

Consulate. [MEXI= 7046 (IN

", 23 November 1963]. Although her

testimony was taken and presented, solely, by the Mexican Govern-

ment authorities, Silvia DURAN was the only live witness on record

regarding

5 OSWALD's activities in Mexico City! It is from her state-

ments that it was learned that OSWALD became engaged in a personal

altercation on 27 September 1963 with Eusebio AZCUE,. the Cuban Con-

sul and a member of the Cuban intelligence unit in Moxico Gity._ He.

the arrival of his

Left Mexico 01-18 November 1265 after bose replect i Alfreda

MIRABEL-Diaz.

There is no evidence in the OSWALD file that Silvia DURAN

was subjected to a systematic elicitative interrogation that would

have related her dealings with OSWALD, known of confirmed by inter-

cept, with the data held on the Cuban DGI (Direccion General de In-

telligencia), its personalities and methods, in Mexico City. Was it

normal for a case like OSWALD's, considering the fuss he allegedly

made with AZCUE, for the applications to be handled solely by a 1o-

cal employee and a lame duck like AZCUE whose slot had been taken

by the DGI chief?

Whatever the answer to these questions, they were

not asked at the time. And there remains the more fundamental ques-

tion: accepting the DURAN story as it stands, could it have hap-

pended without the knowledge and participation of DGI personnel in

the Consulate? This seems unlikely especially because Manuel En=

genio VEGA Perez* later cited by a Cuban DGI defector as having

stated he was aware OSWALD had made several visits to the Cuban

provided

Consulato. It is cloar CASTRO's overseas intelligence and security

service could have more in its files than was surfaced in the

DURAN statements.

*[CI Staff Review, dated 23 May 1975, pp. 16-19.]

gic to

Marcos, and his DGI

assistant,

Rogells RODRiGUEZ Lopez, were positively identified in February 1964

by two independent sources as engaged in the active development and

facilitation of the training of Nicaraguan agents. for the purpose of

assassinating General Annstasio SOMOZA.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

3. -

As: of September 1964, Silvia DURAN gave up her Cuban

Embassy job. In the spring of 1967, Silvia DURAN was reported by

a reliable and sensitive source to have cut all relations with

Cubans. Her account, in 1967, of how she had been taken into

custody and had been interrogated after the assassination re-

peated what was already known.. She added, under circumstances

that did not permit the source to challenge or elicit corrodorative

detail, that she had gone out with OSWALD during his stay in Mexico

City and claimed she had sexual relations with him.. lIbid, pp. 19

20.7

Almost immediately after the President's assassination,

Agency field stations began receiving information from various

sources of undetermined reliability relating to the alleged assa-

ssin of President Kennedy.

As the Warren Commission reported on pages 305 and 307.

of its report, "Literally dozens of allegations of a conspiratorial

contact between OSWALD and agents of the Cuban Government have been

investigated. ": The authors of the report go on to stato

that

'Among the claims made were allegations that

and orders for the assassination [567], that

he had flown to a secret airfield some-

where in or near the Yucatan Peninsula

[568], that he might have made contacts in

Mexico City with a communist from the United

and that OSWALD assassinated the President at

the direction of a particular Cuban who met

with him in the United States and paid him

$7,000. [570].

A letter received from some -

one in Cuba alleging the writer had attended

a meeting where the assassination had been

discussed as part-of-a plan which-would soon

include the death of other non-communist

leaders in the Americas (571].

The charge

was made in

a Cuban expatriate publication

that in a speech he delivered 5 days after

the assassination; while he was under the

influence

slip

of

of liquor, Fidel

Castro made a

the tongue and said,

"The first

time OSWALD

in Cuba"

thereby giving

away

the fact that OSWALD had made one or

more

surreptitious trips to that country

(572].

---

## Page 4

13-00000

4 -

"Some stories linked the assassination

to anti-Castro, groups who allegedly were

engaged in obtaining illicit firearms in

the United States, one such claim being

that these groups killed the President as

part of a bargain with some illicit orga-

nizations who would then

supply them with

placed OSWALD yment 1513.

Other rumors

in Miami, Fla., at various

times, allegedly in pro-Cuban

there [574].

The assassination was

claimed to have been carried out by Chi-

nese Communists operating jointly with the

OSWALD was also alleged to

have met with the Cuban Ambassador in a

Mexico City restaurant and to have driven

off in the Ambassador's car for a private

talk [576]. Castro himself, it was alle-

ged, 2 days after the assassination called

for the files relating to Oswald's dealings

with two members of the Cuban diplomatic

mission in the Soviet Union; the inference

drawn was that the 'dealings' had occurred

and had established a secret subversive re-

lationship which continued through OSWALD's

life 1577]. Without exception, the rumors

and allegations of a conspiratorial con-

tact were shown to be without any factual

basis, in some cases the product of mis-

taken identificaton.

The Warren Report makes reference (bracketed numbers in

the above text) to Commission Exhibits (see Attachment I for list

of Commission Exhibits) most of which had been furnished by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation. Only the first reference - the

ALVARADO interrogation - was furnished by the Agency. The Agency

did, however, provide assistance and information to the FBI in the

latter's investigation of three of the allegations (see asterisked

Exhibits). The results if the Agency's investigation of other.

rumors and allegations relating to OSWALD and the possible involve-

ment of the Cubans and Soviets in the assassination, were dissemina-

tod to the FBI, primarily, and to the Warren Commission (see attach-

ment IT for a Idst of disseminations to the FBI, and attachment ITT

for a list of memoranda to the Warren Commission).

---

## Page 5

13-00000

• 4a -

Among these cases, which consumed hundreds of man-hours

in Headquarters and abroad - and similarly the FBI in the United

States and Mexico City - was the Nicaraguan, Gilberto ALVARADO,

who contacted the United States Embassy in Mexico City on 25 Novem-

ber 1963.

The ALVARADO case is taken up in detail by the Warren

Commission, in its report, under. the cryptograph "D" as being

illustrative of the attention given to the most serious allega-

tions...

On 25 November 1963, a young Nicaraguan, Gilberto Nolasco

ALVARADO Ugarte

---

## Page 6

13-00000

telephoned the United States Embassy in Mexico City.

Later that

day he met with the Embassy security officer and a Station officer

at which time he claimed he had been in the Cuban Consulate in

Mexico City on 18 September 1963. While in the Consulate he saw a

man whom he later recognized as Lee Harvey OSWALD receive $6,500

In cash to kill an important person in the United States.

ALVARADO described the circumstances as follows: While

standing by a bathroom door about noon he saw a group of three

persons conversing on a patio a few feet away.. One was a tall,

thin Negro with reddish hair, obviously dyed, who spoke rapidly in

both Spanish and English. Ho had prominent cheek bones and a

noticeable scar on the lower right side of his chin. The second

was a white person whom ALVARADO had seen previously in a waiting.

room carrying: a Canadian passport.

The white person had green

eyes, blondish hair, with a pompadour hairdo, and dark eyeglasses.

The third person allegedly was Lee Harvey OSWALD.: ALVARADO was

convinced of this from published photographs. of OSWALD following

the assassination. OSWALD was wearing a black sport coat, but-

toned-up white shirt with short collar tabs, no tie, dark gray

pants, and clear eyeglasses.

He had a green passport in his pocket

wore a wrist watch with a yellow band, and appeared to have a pis-

tol in a shoulder holster. A tall Cuban, joined the group momen-

tarily and passed American currency to the Negro. The Ngro then

allegedly said to OSWALD in English, "I want to kill the man."

OSWALD replied, "You're not man enough, I can do it.".. The Negro

then said in Spanish, "I can't go with you. I have a lot. to do."

OSWALD replied, "The people are waiting for me back there." The

Negro then gave OSWALD $6,500 in large denomination-U. S. bills,

saying, "This isn't much." After hearing this conversation, ALVA-

rado said that he telephoned the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City

several times on 20 September before the assassination in an at-

tempt to report his belief that someone important in the United

States was to be killed, but was finally told by someone at the

Embassy to stop wasting his time.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

- 6

ALVARADO was known to this Agency as a former informant

of Nicaraguan security service. His reliability was considered

questionable by American authorities although he had not been

wholly discredited. ALVARADO claimed he was in Mexico City working

against the Cuban communists for his service. The service, how-

ever, has denied that he was acting on its behalf. While investiga

tIon in the United States showed that OSWALD could not possibly hav

have been in Mexico City on 18 September (he was knwon to have been

in New Orleans on both 17 and 19 September), intensive interroga:

tion failed to shake ALVARADO's story,

On 28 November 1963, the Mexican police intorviowed him.

At first ALVARADO persisted in his story but on 30 November he ad

mitted in a signed statement that his whole account about OSWALD

was false. He admitted he had not seen Lee OSWALD at all and that

he had not seen anybody paid money in the Cuban Embassy. ' He also

admitted he had not tried repeatedly to phone a warning to the U.S.

Embassy in Mexiço City on 20 September as he had previously claimed

Instead he had fiist contacted the U.:S. Embassy after the assassi-

nation.

ALVARADO said that his motive in telling this false story

was to help get himself admitted into the United States so that he

could participate in action against Fidel CASTRO. - He said that he

hated CASTRO and thought that his story about OSWALD, if believed,

would help cause the United States to take action against CASTRO.

Following the above interrogation; ALVARADO retracted the

confession he had made to the Mexican authorities asserting that it

had been extorted from him under pressure. He was then questioned

by U.S. authorities using a polygraph machine. ALVARADO volunta-

rily consented to the use of this equipment. During the quesioning

it was pointed out to him that he was not being truthful, according

to the polygraph, in identifying photographs of OSWALD as the per-

son he saw in the Cuban Consulate. He replied that he had full

faith in the polygraph, that he would not attempt to refute the re-

sults, and that he "must have been mistaken". In addition, he

---

## Page 8

13-00000

7-

he changed his story regarding the day he visited the Cuban Consu-

late, finally deciding it took place on Tuesday, 17 September. It

was concluded from the results of the polygraph test that ALVARADO

had fabricated his

story from whole cloth.

[Memorandum to J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel, dated 4 June 1964,

from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans.]

(Comment: Some idea of the time and effort expended by the Agency

In breaking ALVARADO's story may be gained from a review of the

Chronological Summary of the Gilberto ALVARADO interrogation under

attachment IV.)

Although the Warren Report had-used the ALVARADO case-to-

demonstrate the type of allegation the Agency had had to contend

with, the Schweiker Report took the Agency to task for not having

become more suspicious of possible Cuban involvement in the assassi-

nation. To some extent, the authors of the Schweiker Report are

right. There were other rumors and allegations indicating that

OSWALD may not have acted entirely on his own; however, none of

there rumors and allegations stood up under intensive investigation.

Moreover, each rumor or allegation was treated as a separate and

unrelated case - the only common denominator being OSWALD. There

appears to have been no suspicion on the part of the Agency that

these rumors and allegations might have been part of a larger decep-

tion plan orchestrated by a foreign counterintelligence service.

Only a thorough investigation of all available information including

overt comments by responsible. communist officials could have allayed

these suspicions or generated additional requirements to be: levied

on Agency assets world wide. Obviously such an investigation would

have required an enormous quantity of patience, time, and personnel.

None of these prerequisites was available, especially in light of

the tremendous political pressures under which the Agency, the FBI,

the Warren Commission, and others were

working precluded the initia-

tion of such an investigation.

It was not until eleven years later that the Agency was

---

## Page 9

13-00000

- 7a.-

asked to prepare a review of allegations of Cuban involvement in

the John F. Kennedy assassination. On 15 April 1975, David W.

BELIN, Executive Director of the Rockefeller Commission, addressed

a letter to the Agency in which he stated

---

## Page 10

13-00000

18..

"As you know, there have been allegations

that the CIA was involved in a plan to

assassinate Fidel Castro.

For the purposes

of this letter, we will assume that these

allegations are correct,

and based upon

this assumption I would like to know the

answers to the following questions:

"I. Did anyone with the CIA tell any

member of the Warren Commission or any

Tawyer serving on the Warren Commission

staff that

such plans had been underway?

If the answer is yes, we would like to

know what person or persons with the

Agency delivered said information, to

whom it was delivered, when it was dè-

livered, what specifically was told or w

said, what documents there are to support

the answers to the forogoing questions

and what response, if any, was received

from the Warren Commission. If the

Commission was not told about this, why

was it not told and who made the deci-

sion not to deliver such information

to the Warren Commission?

There is evidence that Castro, prior

to November ZZ, 1963, knew about the exis-

tence of such plans and the possible in-

volvement of the U. S. Government.

the CIA at any time prior to the comple-

tion of the Warren Commission investigation

have any documents or other information in-

dicating that Castro may have known about

such plans?

If the answer is yes, would

you please furnish us with copios of.al1

such documents and details of any

such in-

formation.

Several months prior to the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy there is evidence

of a public speech by Castro that was re-

ported by

Associated Press whereby

Castro alluded to possible assassination

attempts on his life and possible retalia-

tion. Would you please advise us if there

Is any evidence, that this Associated Press

report may have appeared in any newspapers

In the United States, including specifically

any newspapers in Dallas or New Orleans.

Would you also advise us of you have any

other information of public statements of

any Cuban-loader prior to November 22, 1963

indicating any awareness of possible assassi-

nation plots on the lives of Cuban-leaders.

Would you please advise us if there is

any information in CIA records to indicate

that at any time prior to November 22, 1963

any foreign government or any foreign

was considering a possible

assassination of

any. American leader.

If so, would you please

advise us of all details and also advise u:

who in the United States Government outside

the CIA was advised of these plans or possi-

bilities.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

- 9 =

"5.

Prior to his death Lyndon Johnson sup-

posedly stated that he. believed that although

there was no doubt that Oswald killed Kennedy

and Tippitt, nevertheless Oswald might have

been a part of a conspiracy in retaliation to

possible United States assassination attempts

in Cuba.

Would you please advise us of any

information in Agency files showing whether

or not there was any communication to President

Johnson of any possible plans involving the

attempted assassinations of any Cuban leader

and is the answer is yes, also give us all de-

tatts Involving this matter."

fLetter to Mr. E. Henry KNOCHE, Assistant to the Director, Central

Intelligence Ageney, dated 15 April 1975, from David W. BELIN,

Executive Director, Commission on GIA Activities within the United

States.l

In its response to the above letter, the Agency noted

that the results of its review "add nuance, not evidence, to what

the Warren Commission and its staff had laid before them in 1964

in this subject".

As to CASTRO's remarks during an informal interview by

the Associated Press correspondent, Daniel HARKER, the Agency com-

mented that "There can be no question from the facts surrounding the

CASTRO appearance, which had not been expected, and his agreement

to the interview, that this event represented a more-than-ordinary

attempt to get a message on the record in the United States."" (Em-

phasis added. The Agency commented further that There is no evi-

dence in the files on the KENNEDY assassination that this CASTRO

interview was considered in following up leads. or in dealings with

I the Warren Commission and its staff although Mexico Station speei

fically directod Headquarters attention to the AP story very shortly

after the Dallas killing.. More important, the interview appears to

have been forgotten in the contemporary political consideration of

relations with CASTRO's Cuba. There is no evidence in Agency re-

cords, either, that the Warren Commission staff itself pursued the

implication of the CASTRO interview in dealing with the conspiracy

hypothesis.

There is no evidence in the files that anything along

these lines was stated by any other Cuban leader before the assassi-

nation:"

---

## Page 12

13-00000

- 10.-

the purpose

According to the author of the review,was to reconsider

Lee Harvey OSWALD's activity on the assumption that as an avid news-

paper reader - which is known from testimony' of Marina OSWALD and

others - he read the CASTRO warning and threat which appeared New

Orleans' principal morning paper, the Times-Picayune, on Monday.,

9 September 1963. The results of the review, admittedly daavili

using 20-20 hindsight, may be set out in summary:

"a. There is no increment of credible

evidence, applying this phrase strictly,

of Soviet and/or Cuban political, intelli

gence or security service involvement in

the assassination to what was developed a

and considered by the Warren Commission and

its staff.

The Connission's finding that

Lee Harvey OSWALD was the killer of Presi-

dent KENNEDY and Officer TIPPITT and did

them in alone and of his own determination

'Credible evidence' that would

upset or significantly modify this judge-

ment did (and does) not exist in Washing-

But such evidence could exist in

Moscow and/or Havana, whose voluntary in-

puts to the warren Commission were minimal

in quantity and quality, designed to cover

up any admissions of knowledge of

nection with, OSWALD which might be related

directly or indirectly with the assassina

Therefore, the belief that there

was Soviet and/or Cuban (KGB and/or DGI)

connection with OSWALD will persist and

grow until there has been a full disclosure

by these governments of all elements of

OSWALD's handling and stay and in the Soviet

Union and his contacts in Mexico City.

The

Warren Commission report should have left a

wider

"window' for this contingency.

That,

indeed

, Was the opinion at the working level,

particularly in the counterintelligence com-

ponent in the CIA in 1964.

As- was indicated

by Mr. HELMS in his testimony. before the

Varren Commission, CIA would continue t

egard this aspect of the OSWALD case a

still open.

•In the absence of additional or new

elements of credible evidence', there are

'nuances' in the record that emerge as note-

worthy, in the light of other conclusions.

These are reviewed and summarized below, item

by item*

CASTRO' s

read it in

New Orleans

- must be considered of great

significance in the light of the pathologi-

cal evolution of OSWALD's passive/aggressive

makeup after his attempt to kill General

---

## Page 13

13-00000

- 11 -

WALKER early in April 1963 and his

identification with Fidel CASTRO and the

Cuban Revolution which is directly trace-

ablo as far back as his Marine Corps

service in El Toro, California.

CASTRO's

warning and threat, given to AP correspon-

dent HARKER,

irrespective of whether there

was any formal mandate.

or even security

service contact with OSWALD by the Cubans

or the Russians - was an act of singular

irresponsibility and under no circumstances

was excusable as retorsion

for what the

Cuban

emigres were doing during the summer

of 1963. "

[Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD File Regarding

Allegations of CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F. KENNEDY

Assassination. Cover Memorandum to DC/OPS dated 23 May 1975.]

[* These items are to be found on pages ? - 27 of the review,

complete copy of which is attached. See

attachment V.]

---

## Page 14

13-00000

FOOTNOTES TO EXCERPT FROM

WARREN COMMISSION REPORT,

PAGES 305 and 307.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

ATTACHMENT

Footnote no: 567

Footinate na. 568

*This is the case of Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte (qv)

* Commission Exhibit no. 2949

FBI Report, dated 13 January 1964; Subject: Lee

Harvey OSWALD.

Synopsis: An undated letter contained in an envelope

postmarked. 31 December 1963, at Guadalajara, Jalisço,

Mexico, received by Attorney General Robert F. KENNEDY.

Letter was signed by Ylario ROJAS Villaneuva.

Footnote no. 569

Commission Exhibit no. 2948

FBI Report, dated 23 January 1964; Subject: Lee

Harvey OSWALD.

Synopsis: Remarks by Homobono ALCARZ Aragon regarding

OSWALD.

Footnote no. 570

Commission Exhibit no. 2676

Inaccurate reference

Footnote no. 571

Commission Exhibit no. 2950

FBI Agent Report from Miami, Florida, dated 7 March

1964; Title: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Synopsis: Letter dated 1/31/64 from a writer in Havana,

Cuba, stated the assassination of President KENNEDY was

committed by a Mexican named "DUGLAS", and indicated

- that OSWALD and Jack RUBY knew nothing about it. This

letter was directed to Dr. Luis CONTE: Aguero, Miami, Fla.

who has a nightly radio program beamed to Cuba. Dr.

CONTE stated the author of the letter

performs mainte-

nance for Cuban ships and has previously furnished

---

## Page 16

13-00000

information regarded as valuable by Dr. CONTE.

Footnote na. 572

Commission Exhibit no. 2952

Letter to J. Lee RANKIN, dated 26 May 1964, from J.

Edgar HOOVER, in which the latter makes reference. to

RANKIN's letter of 23 April 1964, "wherein you requested

that certain investigation be conducted based upon

testimony furnished to your Commission by Mr. Carlos

BRINGUIER.

"Item three of your referenced letter concerns an

alleged ' lapsus linguae' committed by Castro in a speech

given at the University of Havana on November 27, 1963,

at which time Castro allegedly indicated OSWALD had been

in Cuba.

Commission Exhibit no. 2953

¡Enclosure to above letter:

a memorandum dated 15 May

1964, setting

forth the results of an interview with

Herminio PORTELL-VILTA, writer of the above-mentioned

allegation.

Commission Exhibit no. 2954

Copy of a translation of Castro's speech of 27 November

1963.

"A review. of this speech fails to indicate any

slip of the tongue as alleged. It is noted, however,

that page 33, last paragraph, of the enclosed Miami re-

port relating to CASTRO's speech contains a statement

wherein CASTRO refers to OSWALD's visit to the 'Cuban

Embassy' in Mexico City following which he corrected

himself, indicating he means the 'Cuban Consulate':

This

could possibly be the basis for the siip of the tongue.

referred to by Herminio PORTELL-VILA." [See Commission"

Exhibit no. 2952.]

---

## Page 17

13-00000

-3.-

Commission Exhibit. no. 2955, p. 5

FBI Report, dated 15 May 1964; Subject: Lee Harvey

OSWALD.

"This is the part of the article to

which PORTELL-VILA was referring above,

the source of which is the message from

his unknown source in Cuba.

"It is also indicated in the same

transtation of his article, that he fur-

ther states that:

Besides, the information from the

anti-communist underground move-

ment which operates right under

the noso of Raul ROA Garcia, in

the Ministry of State in Havana,

shows that OSWALD's relations

with the 'Fair Play for Communist

Union, and that they had been spon-

sored by CASTRO's diplomatic agents

in Moscow, at the time OSWALD was

"As previously pointed out, PORTELL-

VILA in his interview of May 13, 1964, in-

dicated that his only information in this

regard was the message from his source in

Cuba, and on May 14, 1964, he stated that

the article expressed his

interpretative,

analysis of this information.

"It is noted that the translation also

states that:

During his speech of November 27,

1963, at the University of Havana,

when CASTRO said 'the first time

that OSWALD was in Cuba'

his tongue

was under the influence

of Poralta'

and he revealed

something

which is very important.

"It will be recalled in this respect that

PORTELL-VILA advised during his February 17,

1964, interview that he read in a November 29,

1963, publication that in a speech on November

27, 1963, Fidel CASTRO, whether through a stip

of the tongue or as the result of influence of

liquor, made a coment which suggested that—

OSWALD may have previously made at least one

He conjectured that this trip

of OSWALD could have taken place while he was

in Mexico last year perhaps while he was in

He said at the time he had no additional

information in this regard."

Footnote no. 573

Commission Exhibit no. 2959

---

## Page 18

13-00000

4-

Secret Service Field Report, dated 3 December 1963,

from. Chicago.

Summary: A white male, American, of unknown reliability,

in December 1963, had been attempting to negotiate a

sale of machine guns to a Cuban revolutionary whose

name is known. The Cuban is alleged to have made a

comment the day before the assassination of President

Kennedy that "We now have plenty of money - our new

backers are Jews as soon as we (or they) take care of

Kennedy

Footnote no.

574

Commission Exhibit no. 2951

FBI Field Report, dated 30 March 1964, from Mobile,

• Alabama.

Synopsis: JERRYTEUCHANAN Interviewed 3/26/64, Fairhope,

Ala., where he was. temporarily residing. Stated that he

was one of agroup which fought members of Fair Play for

Cuba Committoo who were distributing pro-Castro litera-

ture, Bay Front Park, Miami, Fla., October 1962. Stated

that after the assassination of President KENNEDY and

attending publicity given to subject OSWALD, he recogni-

zed OSWALD as having been one of the members

of Fair

Play for Cuba group with which group he had fought. Also

recalled that OSWALD had been in Miami in March 1963

distributing pro-Castro literature. Stated his brother

'Jim BUCHANAN has specific information concerning OSWALD's

being in Miami during these periods.

Footnote: no. 575

* Commission Exhibit no. 2946

Portion of

an_FBI Field Report, dated 12 December 1963,

from Miami, contianing information (probably from the

CIA)" that a "diplomat had reported that the assassination

of President KENNEDY was allegedly the result of a plot

---

## Page 19

13-00000

5;

prepared and executed jointly by the Chinese communists

and FIDEL CASTRO through intermediaries."

Footnote na. 576

* Commission Exhibit no. 3047

Portion (three pages) of an FBI Report. This portion

entitled Miscellaneous Inquiries and Allegations relating

to OSWALD refers to an Allegation by Salvador DIAZ Verson

concerning OSWALD and Silvia DURAN.

"The White House at Washington, D. C.,

received a paper entitled 'possible Psycholo

gical Motivations in the Assassination of

President KENNEDY! written by JOSE I, LASAGA,

2340 N. E. 7th Aveue, Apartment 4, Miami,

Florida.

"This speculative paper attemtped to

establish that the motivation. of OSWALD in

the assassination of President KENNEDY was

FIDEL CASTRO or a CASTRO agent and that OSWALD

was so motivated during his trip to Mexico

between September. 27 and October

paper included the allegation that OSWALD had

an extended interview with the. Cuban Ambassa-

dor to Mexico, whom he met at a restaurant on

the outskirts of Mexico, D. Fi, from were

they departed together in the

Cuban Ambassador's

automobile for a private conversation."

Footnote no. 577

Commission Exhibit no. 2952; p.2

Letter to J. Lee RANKIN, dated 26 May 1964, from J:

Edgar HOOVER, in which, on page 2; appears the

following paragraph:

he gave the originalot a message recerved

from an unknown source in Cuba pertaining to

Lee Harvey OSWALD'S alleged relations in Mos

cow, Russia, with two Cuban Ambassadors to

Mrs. Mariada Arensberg, Secretary of the-

Cuban Freedom Committee in Washington, D. C.

PORTELL-VILA believed she passed the message

on to an unknown Government agency."

Commission Exhibit no. 2955, pp. 1-4

FBI Report dated 15 May 1964 pertaining to Dr. Herminio

PORTELL-VILA: Contains information' on OSWALD's alleged

---

## Page 20

13-00000

- 6 =

relations with two Cuban Ambassadors during his

sojourn in the Soviet Union.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

AGENCY DISSEMINATIONS TO. THE

FBI et al REGARDING RUMORS

AND ALLEGATIONS RELATIVE TO

THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

10 October 1963

DIR 74673

Lee Harvey OSWALD, Contact with Soviet Embassy,

Mexico City, 1 October 1963.

Recipient: FBI, INS, State, White House.

23. November 1963

DIR 84915

Information relating to telephone call on 28

September 1963 to Soviet Embassy in Mexico

City:

Recipient:

FBI

25 November 1963

-DIR 84950

Subject: Silvia T. DURAN, Mexican Employee

of the Cuban Embassy Isic - Consulatel in

Mexico City; Contact with Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Recipient: FBI.

25 November 1963

DIR 84951

CIA requests information relating to

OSWALD's activities in Mexico-Gity (from

FBI intorrogation of OSWALD).

Recipient: FBI.

26 November 1963

Subject: Reported Anonymous Telephone

Message.

Recipent: FBI.

26 November 1963

CSCI - 3/778,826

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD, Suspected

Assassin of President Kennedy.

Encloses

transcripts of telephone calls made on

27 and 28 September and 1 and 3 October 1963.

Recipient:

FBI.

26 November 1963

CSCT =3/778,829

Subject:. Same as above.

---

## Page 23

13-00000

- 2 -

(Comment:

This dissemination may be identical

with CSCI-3./778,826.. The above CSCI number

appears to be the correct one, according to

a copy of the document in CI/SIG file no.

568.

Recipient:

FBI.

26 November 1963

DIR 85069

Subject: Travel of Pro-Communist Costa

Rican Congressman to Texas on 26 November

1963:

Representatives of this Agency in Costa Rica

suspect that Julio SUNOL Leal, pro-Communist,

pro-CASTRO deputy to the Costa Rican National

Assembly, will try to gather data in Texas to

use in pro-communist pro-CASTRO propaganda

in connection with the assassination of Presi

-dent KENNEDY.

Rocipient: FBI,

26 November 1963

DIR 85089

Gilberto ALVARADO, a professed Catsroite

Nicaraguan, stated to U. S. Embassy in

Mexico City on 26 November 1963 [sic

25 November 1963] that "on I8 September

1963 he saw Lee Harvey OSWALD receive six:

thousand five hundred dollars in a meeting

inside the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City."

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received a copy. (Warren Commission]

26 November 1963

DIR 85176

Subject: Marina Nikolaevna OSWALD (infor-

mation volunteered on Marina OSWALD by

Moroccan student Mohamed REGGAB studying.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

3-

in West Germany).

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service recievd copy.

26 November 1963

DIR 85177

Subject: Telephone Communication between

Cuban President DORTICOS and Joaquin HERNANDEZ

Armas, Cuban Ambassador to Mexico.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy.

26 November 1963

Unnumbered

Subject: HUNTER Report no. 10815.

Recipient: FBI.

26 November 1963

Unnumbered

Subject: HUNTER Report no. 10816.

Recipient: FBI.

26 November 1963

Unnumbered

Subject: Passage of IN 68291 from Mexico

City to the White House.

(OSWALD's repor-

ted presence in Mexico City on 18 September

1963.)

Recipient: FBI.

27 November 1963

• CSCI-3/778,881

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD, Soviet Activi-

ties in Mexico City, 18 - 24 November 1963.

Recipient: FBI.

27 November 1963

DIR 85182

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. On 23 November,

Richard Thomas GIBSON, an American living in

Switzerland, who was acquainted with OSWALD,

made statements regarding latter. to a close

---

## Page 25

13-00000

friend in Bern.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy. [Warren Commission]

27 November 1963

DIR 85196

According to information from Nicaraguan

Security Service, Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte

was a Nicaraguan intelligence source from

1962 to August 1963.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy.

27 November 1963

DIR 85199

Information solicited from Gilberto

ALVARADO Ugarte.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy. [Warren Commission]

27 November 1963

DIR 85222

-Subjeet: Silvia T. DURAN, Mexican Employee

of the Cuban Embassy fsic - Consulatelin

Mexico City, contact with Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Recipient: FBI.

26 November 1963

DIR 85246

Dr. Jose GUILDERMO Aguirre of Mexico re-

ports Information regarding Lee Harvey

OSWALD.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House, Secret

Service received copy. (Also relayed to S

PAPICH of the FBI by CI Staff on 27 November

1263.

27 November 1963

DIR 85471

Subject: Rearrest of Silvia DURAN.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

---

## Page 26

13-00000

5-

27 November 1963

DIR 855.73

Information from U. S. Ambassador MANN

for Secretary of State RUSK regarding

Ambassador HERNANDEZ, Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico, and Gilberto ALVARADO.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

27 November 1963

Unnumbered

Information on Arnesto RODRIGUEZ re-

layed by telephone to S. PAPICH.

Recipient: FBI.

27. November 1963

Unnumbered

Information regarding photographic

coverage of Cuban and Soviet Embassies

in Mexico City passed to S. PAPICH of

the FBI.

Recipient: FBI.

28 November 1963

DIR 85657.

On 26 November a British journalist

named John WILSON-HUDSON gave information

to the American Embassy in Mondon indica-

ting that an "American gangster

type named

RUBY" visited Cuba around 1959.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

28 November 1963

ĐIR-85662

Furthor interrogation of Gilberto

ALVARADO Ugarte.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

Warren Commission].

28 November 1963

DIR 85665

The Hague Station reports that on 23

November 1963, a local Castroite named

---

## Page 27

13-00000

- 6. -

'Maria SNETHLAGE talked to Third Secretary

-Ricardo SANTOS of the Cuban Embassy.

SNETHLAGE claimed she knew the Mr. Lee [sic]

who murdered President Kennedy.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy. (Warren Commission]

29 November 1963

CSCI -3/778,893

Subject: Interrogation of Silvia Tirado

de DURAN and Horacio DURAN Navarro.

Recipient: FBI.

29 November 1963

DIR 85666

Acting upon an FBI request, the Agency requests

ALVARADO be turned over to Mexican authorities

for additional interrogation.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

Warren Commission

29 November 1963

DIR 85668-

Highlights from the interrogation of Horacio

DURAN Navarro and his wife, Silvia Tirado

de DURAN.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

29 November 1963

DIR 85670

Sensitive sources . . . have reported

that when the. 23 November arrest of

Silvia DURAN became known-to the personnel

of the Cuban Embassy there was a great-

deal of discussion.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

[Warren Commission]

29 November 1963

DIR - 85691

Series of anonymous telephone calls

to

---

## Page 28

13-00000

the office of the Naval Attache in Can-

berra, Australia, by a man claiming to

have knowledge about a Soviet plot to

assassinate President Kennedy.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House;

Secret Service received copy.

29 November 1963

DIR 85714

Release of Silvia DURAN for second time

on 28 November.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy.

29 November 1963

DIR 85744

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy.

29 November 1953

DIR 85758

Translation of interrogation of Silvia

DURAN and Horacio DURAN Navarro.

Recipients:

FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy.

_(Warren Conmission]

29 November 1963

DIR 85770

Series of incidents which have produced

a report alleging advance information on

assassination.

Recipients: FBI, State, White-House; Secret

Service received copy.-[Warren Commission]

29 Növember 1963: Unnumbered memorandum

Telephone contact with S. PAPICH con-

cerning rumor that OSWALD had made a

bank deposit.

Recipient: FBI.

---

## Page 29

13-00000

30 November 1963

CSCI -3/778,894

Subject: Article in 29 November 1963

issue of Washington Post suggesting two

men involved in assassination.

Recipient: FBI.

30 November 1963

DIR 86063

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte admets his

story a fabrication.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

[Warren Commission]

3. December 1963

DIR 86496

Information relating to OSWALD's presence

in Mexico.

Recipient:

FBI.

7 December 1963

DIR 87667

Re-interrogation of Gilberto-ALVARADO

concluded

Recipient: FBI. [Warren Commission]

9 December 1963

DIR 87731

Richard BEYMER, American movie actor, in

touch with Cuban Embassy, Mexico City.

Recipient: FBI.

9

December 1963

DIR 87796

Lettér mailed in Stockholm on 25 November

1963 alleging assassination arranged by

Communist Chinese.:

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy.

Warren Commission]

9 December 1963

Unnumbered Memorandum

Telephone contact with S. PAPICH regarding

---

## Page 30

13-00000

9 -

identity of a source who claims plot to

assassinate Kennedy prepared and

executed

jointly by the Communist Chinese and Cubans

through intermediaries. (See JMWAVE 8658

IN , 75902)

Recipient:

FBI.

12 December 1963

CSCI -3/779,048

Subject: WILSON, Carlos John (also:

WILSON-HUDSON, John; WILSON, John Hudson.)

Recipient: FBI.

12 December 1963

DIR: 88643

Subject: Letter Relative to Assassination

of President Kennedy Sent to United States

Embassy in Costa Rica.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House.

[Warren Commission]

12 December 1963

DIR 88682

Cuban Ambassador to France received in-

structions not to comment upon the assassi-

nation.

Recipients:

FBI, State; White House.

12 December 1963

DURAN.

DIR 88747

Subject: Second Interrogation of Silvia

Recipient: FBI, State, White House.

13 December 1963

CSCI-3/779,136

Mexican Interrogation of Gilberto

Subject:

ALVARADO.

Recipient:

FBI.

"Warren Commission]

16 December 1963

CSCI-3/779,135

Subject: Peter DERYABIN's Comments on

---

## Page 31

13-00000

• 10 -

Kennedy. Assassination.

Recipient: FBI.

18 December 1963

DIR 89970

Further Information on Richard Thomas GIBSON.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy. [Warren Commission]

18 December 1963

DIR 89980

Subjeet: Aetions of Silvia DURAN after

hor first intorrogation.

Recipients: FBI, State, White House; Secret

Service received copy. [Warren Commission]

27 December 1963

CSCI-3/779,297

Subject:

Assassination of President Kennedy

Tarranged by the Cuban Government and the

Communist Chinese):

Recipient: FBI.

3. January 1964

Unnumbered Memorandum

Telephone contact with S. PAPICH on

3 January 1964 regarding newspaper

article appearing in El Caribe on 27.

November 1963 and possible connection

with ALVARADO's interview in the U.s.

Embassy on 26 November.

Reeipient: FBI.

10 January 1964

CSCI-3/779,482

Subject: Second Mexican Interrogation

of Silvia DURAN.

Recipient: FBI. [Warren Commission]

27 January 1964-

Subject!

Meni

CSCI -3/779,729

Possible Relatives of

---

## Page 32

13-00000

- 11 -

Marina Nikolayevna OSWALD.

Recipient: FBI.

30 January 1964

CSCI - 3/779,814

•Subject: Jack t. RUBY, Lee HarVey OSWALDe

Recipient: FBI.

4 February 1964

CSCT-3/779,817

SubJect: Lee Harvey OSWALD. (Informa-

tion on names, addresses, and telephone

numbers relating to the Soviet Union.)

Recipient: FBI

18 February 1964

DDP 4-0860

Memorandum for the Director, Federal

Bureau of Investigation.

Subject: Assassination of John F. Kennedy.

f*In connection with our efforts to assist

the President's Commission on the Assassina-

tion of President Kennedy by providing infor-

mation which might be helpful in interpreting

available materials pelating to OSWALDis.ac

tivities abroad, we have considered the entry

with regard to attempted suicide. We-consi

der this entry as being of considerable. im-

portance and one which might be subject to

verification.")

Recipient:

FBI. [Copy to Warren Commission]

18 February 1964

DDP 4-0861

Memorandum for the Director, Federal

Bureau of Investigation.

Subject: Assassination of President John F.

Kennedy•

("'.

47 photographs which were among the

•effects of Lee Harvey OSWALD, It

appears that most of the photographs were

taken in the USSR and depict Soviet contacts-

of OSWALD or scenes in the Soviet Union.")

Recipient:

FBI. [Copy to Warren Commission]

18 February 1964

DDP 4-0862

Memorandum for the Chief, United States

---

## Page 33

13-00000

- 12 .

Secret Service.

Subject: Assassination of President John F.

Kennedy. (Verification of entry in "Historic

Diary" relating to OSWALD's attempted suicide.)

Recipient: Secret Service. [Copy to Warren

Commission]

18 February 1964

DDP 4-0864

Memorandum for Mr. Thomas L. Hughes,

The Director of Intelligence and Research,

Department of State.

Subject: Assassination of President John F.

Kennedy - Verification of Entry in-"Historic

Diary".

Recipient: State. Copy to Warren Commission]

20 February 1964

CSCI - 3/779,988

Subject:.. Lee Harvey OSWALD. (Information

regarding Annette SETYAEVNA and Lillie May RAHM.)

Recipient:

FBI.

22 February 1964

DIR 03101

Subject: Further Information Provided

by Moroccan Student Mohamed REGGAB:

Recipient: White House (attention Secret

Service.)

11 March 1964

CSCI - 3/780,344

Subject: Summary of Findings in Regard to

Allegations by Mohamed REGGAB Relative to

Marina OSWALD.

Recipient: FBI.

20

March

- 1964:

CSCI-3/780,612

Subject:

Assassination of President

John F. Kennedy: (Photograph of an

---

## Page 34

13-00000

- 13-

individual closely resembling OSWALD.)

Recipient: FBI.

16 April 1964

CSCI -3/780,296

Subject: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO.

Recipient: FBI.

22 ApriT 1964

CSCI-3/780,881

Subject: Assassination of President

John F. Kennedy. (Information regarding

Lydia DYMITRUK)

Recipient:

8 May. 1964

11 Mạy 1964

13 May 1964

DDP 4-2351

Memorandum from Richard HELMS, DDP, to J. Lee

RANKIN

• Subject: Marina OSWALD'S Notebook..

Recipient: Copy of attachment forwarded to

FBI. (Warren Commission]

CSCI-3/781,172

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. (Traces on Soviet

names, addresses, and telephone numbers from an

address book belonging to Marina OSWALD.)

Recipient: FBI.

CSCI -3/781,282

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. (Identification

of photographs: sent to CIA by FBI.) .

Recipient:

FBI.

15 May 1964

Memorandum from Richard HELMS, DDP, to J. Lee

RANKIN•

Subject:

Role of Cuban Intelligence Service

'in Processing Visa Applicants; Reaction of

---

## Page 35

13-00000

5 June 1964

10 June: 1964

= 14-

the Service to the Assassination of

President Kennedy.

Recipient: FBI.. [Warren Commission]

CSCI - 3/781, 543

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD. (Use of

Machine Collation Program to. Check Out

Cubans Mentioned in Letter of 27 November

1963 from Mario del ROSARIA Milina.)

Recipient: FBI:

.CSCI-3/781,841

Subject: Information Concerning

Jack RUBY.

Recipient: FBI.

29 June 1964

CSCI -3/782,058

Memorandum from Richard HELMS, DDP, to

J. Lee RANKIN.

Subjeet: Investigation of Allogation that

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco.

Recipient: FBI. [Warren Commission]

2 July. 1964

- DDP 4-3401

Memorandum from Richard HELMS, DDP, to

J. Lee RANKIN. (Remarks made by Soviet

Consul Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV.)

Recipient: FBI. (Warren Commission)

27 August 1964

CSCI-316/00856-64

Subject: No Indication of Subject's Defec-

tion Having Been Used for Propaganda by the

Cuban Government.

Recipient:

FBI.

[Warren Commission]

3 September 1964

DDP 4-4600

---

## Page 36

13-00000

- 15

Memorandum from Richard HELMS, DDP, to

J. Lee RANKIN.

Subject: OSWALD Documents Supplied. by the

Cuban Government:

Recipient:

FBI. [Warren Commission]

October 1964-

CSCI-316/01446-64

Subject: VIADUCT Interview on 9 September

1964; His Comments on Seven Photographs For-

warded by the FBI.

Recipient: FBI.

23 December 1964

CSCI- 316/02545-64

Subject:

Allegation of Unidentified Scientist

of Cuban Involvement in Assassination.

Recipient: FBI.

2 March 1965

CSCI-316/00925-65

Subjeet: Marvin KANTOR, Possible Connection

with Investigation of Loe Harvey and Marina

OSWALD.

Recipient: FBI.

130 June 1965

CSCI-316/02654-65

Subject: Silvia DURAN.

Recipient: FBI.

2 September 1966

- CSCI-316/04482-66

Subject:

Rima ZMITROOK, Lee Harvey OSWALD's

Inturist Guide in Moscow.

Recipient:

FBI:

14 June 1967

CSCI -316/03243-67

Subject: Allegation of Oscar COUNTRERAS,

Mexican newsman, that OSWALD visited UNAM :

Campus Shortly after the Cuban Embassy Re-

---

## Page 37

13-00000

- 16 -

fused Him a Visa to Visit Cuba. CONTRERAS'

Statement of Dubious credibility; information

passed to Mexican authorities.

Recipient: FBI.

---

## Page 38

13-00000

AGENCY MEMORANDA CONCERNING

RUMORS AND ALLEGATIONS RELATIVE

TO THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION;

AND ADDRESSED TO THE WARREN

COMMISSION.

---

## Page 39

13-00000

MEMORANDA SUBMITTED: BY CIA TO THE WARREN COMMISSION ON RUMORS AND

ALLEGATIONS RELATING TO THE PRESIDENT'S ASSASSINATION.

31 January 1964

Subject: Information Developed by CIA

on the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in

Mexico City, 28 September - 3 October

1963.

5 March 1964

Subject; Summary of Findings in Regard

to Allegations by Mohammed REGGAB Relative.

to Marina OSNALD.

18 March 1964

Subject:, Article Alleging that OSWALD

was Interviewed by CIA in Moscow.

31 March 1964

DDP 4-1655

Subject: Reports on Activities and Travel

of Lee Harvey OSWALD and Marina Nikolevna

OSWALD.

Enclosures include the following:

Teletype Message no. 87515, 29 November

1963. - paragraph g - Maria SNETHLAGE.

Teletype. Message no, 85182, 22 November

-1963, Remarks made by Richard Thomas

GIBSON.

Teletype Message no, 85665, 28 November

1963; Remarks Made by Maria SNETHLAGE and

Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS of the Cu-

ban Émbassy in The Hague.

3 April 1964

DDP 4-1699

Subject: Richard Thomas GIBSON.

7 Apnit 1061

---

## Page 40

13-00000

7 April 1964

4 May 1964

8 May 1964

2-

DDP 4-1784

Subject: Mohammed REGGAB:

DDP 4 - 2256

Subject: Additiónal Information on Lee

Harvey. OSWALD.

"A survey of Agency files indicates that all

• . : information known to the Agency on

OSWALD's association (with communists or

criminals, either in United States or abroad)

has been made available to the Commission."

DDP 4-2351

Subject: Marina OSWALD's Notebook.

(Compilation of traces on what appear to be

Soviet names, addresses, and telephone num-:

bers from an address book identified by

Marina OSWALD as belonging to her.)

15 May 1964

Subject: Role of the Cuban Intelligence Service

in Processing Visa Applicants; Reaction of that

Service to the Assassination of President

Kennedy.

19 May 1964

22 May 1964

-DDP 4-2534

Subject;

- Allegations of PFC Eugene B. DINKIN, -

U.S. Army, Relativo to Assassination Plot

against President Kennedy:

DDP 4-2624;

Subject: Anonymous Telephone Calls to United

States Embassy in Canberra, Australia; Rela-

tive to Planned Assassination of President

Kennedy.

---

## Page 41

13-00000

27 May 1964

1, June 1964

3 June 1964

4 June 1964

-:3

DDP 4-2688

Subject:

Letter Accusing the Chinese

Communists of Plotting the Assassination

of President Kennedy.

(Comment: Letter received at U.S. Em-

bassy; Stockholm.)

DDP 4-2741

Subject: "Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte

Enclosures: - Out Teletype no, 85089,

26 November 1963.

Out Teletype no. 85199,

27 November 1963.

Out Teletype no. 85662,

28 November 1963.

Out Teletype no. 85666,

28 November 1963.

Out Teletype no. 86063,

30. November 1963.

Out Teletype N0: 87667,

7 December 1963.

Memorandum, 12 December 1963,

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO.

DDP 4-2769

Subject: Documents on Lee Harvey

OSWALD Furnished by

the Soviet Government.

DDP

Subject: Information Developed on the

Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico

City:

10 June 1964

Subject: Information Concerning Jack RUBY_

---

## Page 42

13-00000

-4 -

(aka Jack TUBENSTEIN) 'and His Associates.

12 Juno 1964

Subject: Letter Relative to Assassination

of President Kennedy Sent to United States

Embassy in Costa Rica.

29 June 1964

DDP 4-3347

Subject: Investigation of Allegation that

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco.

2 July 1964

ĐDP 4-3401

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

28: August 1964

DDP 4-4479

Subject: Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY.

15 September 1964 DDP 4-4808

Subject: Information Concerning Jack RUBY

(aka Jack RUBENSTEIN) and His Associates.

17 September 1964 DDP 4-4839

Subject: Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV.

17 September: 1964 DDP 4-4922

Subjèct: Eusebio AZQUE - Former Cuban Consul,

Mexico City•

18 September 1964 'DDP 4-4953

Subject: Identification of Persons Appea-

ring in FBI Photograph no: D 33-46 (Commission

-Exhibit no. 2625):

---

## Page 43

13-00000

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY :

Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

---

## Page 44

13-00000

ALVARADO Ugarte, Gilberto Nolasco

In the following are cited those portions (including

footnotes) of the SCHWEIKER Report pertaining to Gilberto ALVARADO

Comments relating to these portions are in roman charachters.

.....-• =•

At noon on November 25, "D", a Latin American, appeared

at the American Embassy in Mexico City, 35

(PN: This incident is

discussed in the Warren Report, pp. 308; 309; Cable from Mexico

Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/25/63.) [Comment:

The first cable

in the file announcing ALVARADO's claim is MEXI-7067 (IN 68291),

26 November 1963. ALVARADO at no time appeared at the American

Embassy - some of our own reporting is in error, e.g., DiR 85089,

26 November 1963, a dissemination to FBI, State, and the White

House, states! "On 26 November 1963, Gilberto ALVARADO, a prö-

fessed Castroite-Nicaraguan : ... came to the American Embassy in

Mexico and made a statement about Lee OSWALD."-According to "ALVA=*

RADO's-interrogation by Mexican authorities, he called the Ameri

can--Embassy on 25 November and-"succeeded in speaking to-a-high-

official.with-whom he-made-an appointment for that-same-day.at

5:30_p.M. near the Hotel Maria Isabel. Two individuals appeared

for the appointment." According to a note in the Mexico Station

file, signed by the Embassy Security Officer, A. C. PLAMBECK:-

dated 25 November - these two men were SNIGHT and PLAMBECK; both.

were Embassy security officers.] He told Embassy personnel that he

was in the Cuban consulate

on september 1? and saw cubans who dis -

cussed assassination pay OSWALD a sum of money. [Comment: During

his first meeting with Embassy officials, ALVARADO claimed he had

been at the Cuban Consulate on the 18th of September, not the 17th.

In fact, at no time, did he refer to the date 17 September. Later,

during his interrogation incconnection with the polygraph examina-

tion on 6 December 1963, ALVARADO revealed he was "unsure of the

day of week allegedly saw OSWALD: Thinks that it was on Tuesday"

which would have been 17 September. (MEXI-7289 (IN 75588), 7 Decem-

ber 1963).] He later repeated his story to the CIA Mexico Station

---

## Page 45

13-00000

= 2=

Chief.

[Comment: At no time, at least there is no mention in the

files, did ALVARADO repeat his story to the "CIA Mexico Station

Chief'. ALVARADO first-told-his story, as indicated above, to two:

officors from the Embassy Security Office. The next morning, he -

met with PLAMBECK from the-Embassy Security Office, and a Station

officer. During another meeting that evening (26 November), ALVA-

RADO was interrogated by two officers from the Station. (Note for

the Record, dated 25 November 1963, signed by PLAMBECK; Memorandum.

for Clark ANDERSON. Legal Attache, dated 29 November 1963, from

Winston M. SCOTT.)] The CIA and the Warren Commission Later con-

cluded that the

e story was a fabrication, but the Agency was clearly.

concerned with "D"'s story at the time. 36

_(FN:

"D" later admitted

that the story about

OSWALD had been fabricated.

Cable from

_ Mexico

City to CIA Headquarters, 11/30/63. It had also been determined

by the FBI that OSWALD was probably in New Orleans on September 12.

Cable from CIA Headquarters to Mexico Station, 11/28/63.1 (Comment:

There were actually two cables, DIR 85258, 27 November 1963, and

DIR 85653, 28 November 1963, which indicated OSWALD was in New

Orleans on 17 and 19 September 1963.]

Later in that day (26 November 1963], the Mexico Station

cabled Headquarters on the details of its interrogation of "D'. 39

(EN: Cable from Mexico Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/26/63.)

[MEXI-7069 (IN 68376), 26 November 1963.] It also reported other

information from a sensitive and reliable source which tended to

confirm "D"'s story that OSWALD may have been paid by the Cubans

to assassinate President Kennedy. [Comment:

It would appear from

this statement, the authors of the report were referring to MEXI-

7069 (IN 68376); however, this cable does not contain any remarks

alluding to information which "tended to confirm 'D's' story".

This information appears in MEXI-7072 (IN 68406), 26 November 1963,

which contains Ambassador MANN's message to RUSK, MÇCONE, andl

HOOVER: MANN's statement reads as follows:

"While we recognize

lack of established reliability of Nicaraguan and danger of reaching

---

## Page 46

13-00000

= 3-

hasty conclusions, we suggest that DORTICOS' preoccupation with

money angle of interrogation of Silvia DURAN tends to corroborate.

to some-extent authenticity of the Nicaraguan's statement. Thus,

there appears to be-a-strong possibility that a down payment was

made to OSWALD in the Cuban Embassy there, presumably with-promise

of a subsequent payment after assassination.! The Ambassador was....

reading somewhat more into the situation than was the case. The -

reference to DORTICOS - the Cuban President - relates to two tele.

phone conversation between DORTICOS and HERNANDEZ, the Cuban Amba-

ssador to Mexico, on 26 November 1963. The first conversation,.

which took place at 0924, was forwarded, in resume, to Headquarters

on 26 November 1963. (MEXI-7068 IN ); the second conversation,

which took place

e at 1839, was forwarded, in resume,

to Headquarters

on 27 November 1963 _(MEXI-7097 IN

In the first conversa-

tion DORTICOS asks (if) "the Federals of that country wanted Senora

DURAN to say

something, that they had some interest in, and had

offered some money to the American?" To which HERNANDEZ answers

•=-.

that there was nothing about money. In the second conversation,

DORTICOS is quoted as saying:

"I was referring as to whether they

had threatened her so that she would make a statement that the Con-

sulate had given money to the man - that American." HERNANDEZ ans-

wered that "nothing absolutely was given her" (sic]. It would not

appear from a close reading of these two conversations that they

contain information "which tended to confirm 'D's' story...".]

This report has never been satisfactorily explained, although it

was made available to the warren Commission Staff. In any event,

these reports certainly must have fueled suspicions of Cuban in-

volvement in the assassination. Based on the evidence it reviewed,

the warren Commission later determined that "p"'s story was a fabri

cation. [Comment: This statement appears to be gratitous- the

Warren Commission did not ask. about the ALVARADO case until-21

April 1964. On that date RANKIN- addressed a letter to Richard

HELMS in which he stated inter alia "We are aware, of course,

from previous reports that the allegations made by ALVARADO were

---

## Page 47

13-00000

- 4.=

thoroughly investigated by Central Intelligence Agency and Federal

Bureau of Investigation representatives in Mexico City in liaison

with the responsible Mexican law-enforcement authorities. Refer-

ence is made to the discussion of these allegations in your memo-

randum dated January 31, 1964, at pages 11--14.

"Upon review of our complete file on this matter we-

find. that we lack full. documentation.of the investigation-conducted.

of these allegations. It would be helpful if our records could be..

supplemented by a report from your Agency supplying more details

regarding the investigation undertaken by your Agency and other con-

cerned Agencies into this matter and your evaluation as to the truth

of ALVARADO's assertions. In particular,

it would be helpful if a

report could be submitted by the expert

who conducted the polygraph

examination which emphasizes the specific conclusions which he made

based on the responses by ALVARADO in answering key questions on

this matter." (Letter to Richard HELMS, DDP, dated 21 April 1964,

from J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.) The Agency responded on 1

June 1964.

(Memorandum to J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964, from

Richard HELMS, DDP; Subject:

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.)]

The American Ambassador in Mexico later sent a cable

(MEXI-7072 (IN 68406), 26 November 1963] to State

Department through

CIA channels.

In that cable he gave his opinion that the cubans

were involved in the assassination, and recommended certain inves-

tigative steps which should be taken in Mexico.

• 40 TEN:

Cable from

Mexico Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/26/63.)

By November 27, the Mexico Station and CIA Headquarters

were also beginning to question the accuracy of "p"'s stroy.

The

cabtes between the Mexico Station and Headquärters indicate the

possibitity that the story was a fabrication. Nevertheless, on

November 28, Headquarters cabled a reminder to the Mexico Station

to "follow all leads". The station was instructed to continue in-

vestigating the possibility of Cuban or soviet involvement, because

Headquarters had not excluded the possibility that other persons. ..:

---

## Page 48

13-00000

- 5 -

were

involved with. OSWALD.

44 (FN: A cable from CIA Headquarters

to Mexico Station, 11/28/83.) IDIR 85655, 28-November 1963)

Later that day (27. November] Headquarters learned that

Mexican authorities planned to arrest Silvia DURAN again and warned

the-station that the Mericans-must.take'responsibility.for the.ar

rest.. After learning.that the u.s..Ambassador was.continuing t0.

press for a vigorous investigation into: Cuban involvement, Head-

quarters also warned the station Chief that the Ambassador was

pushing the case too hard and his proposals could lead to a "flap"

with

the Cubans. 46 (EN: A cable from CIA Headquarters to Mexico

Station, 11/28/63. (DIR 85655, 28 November 19631 Finally, the

Agency concluded that "D"'s

story was a fabrication and terminated

its interest in him.

47 (EN: Ibid.'.

On November 30, Director MCCONE met with the President

at 11 d.M.

While there was a discussion of the allegations

made by "D" the memorandum records no action was required on the

"OSWALD situation". 49 (FN: Memo-andum for the Record by Director

McCone, 12/2/63) [Comment: Memorandum not available in the file.]

On December 1, MCCONE met with the President and BUNDy.

MeCONE's memorandum of the meeting indicates they again discussed

"D''s story. Later that day, Headquarters cabled the Mexico Statio

and stated that the white House had been told the story

was a fabri.

cation.

Later that day [2 Decemberl, the Mexico Sta-

reported it had reason to doubt its earlier conclusion that "j"

was fabricating. [Comment: The authors of the Report give no

source for this statement. Moreover, they-leave the reader in the

..-air as to what was the outcome of further investigation to deter-.

• mine whether the earlier conclusion- that ALAVARDO was fabricating

was an accurate conclusion. The facts are as follows:

...On.2. December, Captain (HEELOCK* sav. ALAVARDO durine the

+ Captain Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia, chief of the Anti-

Communist Section of the

3/PV

---

## Page 49

13-00000

GITN

6-

On 2 December, Captain (WHEELOCK) saw ALVARADO during the

afternoon for the first time. In a brief interview, which lasted

only seven minutes, in the company of two Mexican officials,

ALVARADO reverted to his previous story.. He claimed he did see...

OSWALD and that he did call the Embassy to report.. (Latter state-

ment not supported.by Embassy.investigation.. ALVARADO went.on to

say that he told the Mexicans he was fabricating because he was.

"mentally mistreated", specifically because he was threatened that

would be hanged by the testicles. Actually he was not physically

mistreated. (WHEElOCh said he

was unable to come to any definite

conclusion as to ALVARADO's veracity; however,...

he would be able to

do so once he returned to Managua and had a chance to complete the

interrogation. (MEXI-7023 IN 71702, 2 December 1963)

On 3 December 1963, Headquarters tells the Mexico Sta-

tion that although Headquarters is confident that ALVARADO is a

fabricator and that his retraction of his confession is false, it

has been decided that he should be placed on the polygraph. Head-

quarters asks that

the Station arrange to have ALVARADO released

to CIA custody

for

several days and ask (WHEELOCK) to remain in Mexi-

co to assist.

A polygraph operator from the Office of Security will

arrive on 4. December.

He will be incharge of the polygraph inter-

view, but will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON (Legal Attache), who

has been selected as an interpreter. The FBI will nötify ANDERSON

of this. (DIR 96563, 3 December 1963)

* Captain Eranklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia, Chief of the Anti-

Communist Section of the

arrived in Mexico City on 29 November 1963. @HEELOCK) went to.

Mexico in response to Mexico Station's request for assistance in

interrogating ALVARADO, For further details see accompanying

chronological summary on Gilberto ALVARADO.

---

## Page 50

13-00000

- 7-

ECHEVARRIA, the acting minister of gobernacion, agreed

to permit CiA to "borrow ALVARADO. The plan was to pick up

ALVARADO on 5 December and return him that evening. (MEXI-7229

IN-72877, 3 December 1963) ALVARADO was picked up as planned and •

underwent preliminary questioning on 5 December. The next-day-he…

underwent a polygraph interview. The results of this interview

indicated that ALVARADO was fabricating-his-story. Interrogation.

revealed that he was unsure as to the exact day of the week he alle-

gedly saw OSWALD. He thought it was on a Tuesday which would have.

been the 17th of September. When ALVARADO was shown a series of

photographs during the testing, deception patterns became evident:

When he was confronted with this he answered that he had the utmost

confidence in the polygraph and that it must be correct.

The in-

terrogation was concluded with ALVARADO

admitting he must have made

an "honest mistake" in relating the original story in his identifi-

cation of OSWALD. (MEXI-7289. IN 75588, 7 December)

Following the receipt of the results of the anove inter-

view with ALVARADO, Headquarters disseminated the results to the

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

"The re-interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

Nicaraguan informant who claimed to have seen

Lee OSWALD receive money to assassinate Kennedy,

has been concluded...

Our Mexico City Statión ad-

vises us that ALVARADO admitted he must have

been mistaken in saying that he saw SWALD in

the Cuban Embassy.

Also, he was uncertain of

the date on which he might have seen someone.

like OSWALD and thought it must have

been on a

which would have made it 17 September

Tuesdal Although the final report of the poly-

1963.

graph interview is not yet available, the pre-

liminary finding is that ALVARADO evidenced

deception reactions when talking about OSWALD.

"It is expected that ALVARADO will be de-

ported to Nicaragua on 9 December 1963.

"A representative of your Bureau partici-

pated in the interrogation of ALVARADO."

(DIR 87667, 7 December 1963)

Except for forwarding to the Warren Commission various

reported material'on ALVARADO, the Agency had completed its inves

tigation of the allegation. that the Cuban Consulate had given

---

## Page 51

13-00000

8

OSWALD six thousand five hundred dollars to assassinate an un-

named target.

----

-......----.--

---

## Page 52

13-00000

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY: Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

18 September 1963

According to ALVARADO's statements made during an intor

view conducted in the morning of 26 November 1963 by an American

Embassy security officer and a member of the Mexico Station in

Mexico City, ALVARADO went at noon on 18 September to the Cuban

Consulate to turn over passport photographs to the Cuban Consul

Eusebio AZCUE.• • • While standing by a rest room off a passage.

way leading to a patio; ALVARADO: saw a group of three persons con-

versing on the patio a few feet away. One man was a tall, thin

Negro with reddish hair, obviously dyed. He had prominent cheek

bones; and a noticeable scar on the lower right side of his chin.

He spoke radpidly with a Cuban accent and did speak

some English.

Another member öf the group was a white

person whom ALVARADO had

seen previously, in the waiting room, carrying a Canadian passport.

The Canadian had green eyes, blondish hair combed in an "existen-

tialist manner with a pompadour. He was wearing dark eyeglasses

of a type with a mirror-like reflection on the outer surface. The

third member of the group was Lee Harvey. OSWALD. He was waering a

black sport coat, a buttoned up white shirt with short collar tabs,

no tie, gray pants, and clear eyeglasses.

ALVARADO saw a tall Cuban join the group momentarily and

pass American currency to the Negro. This unidentified Cuban ap-

parently came out of AZUE's office onto the patio. ALVARADO des-

cribed the Cuban as a tall, solidly built mulatto, with curly hair,

who appeared to be about 37 years old. He was wearing a brown suit

and a red-striped tie. ALVARADO never saw this man again after 18

September.

ALVARADO claimed he overheard the following conversation

between the Negro and OSWALD:

Negro (in English): "I want to kill the man".

OSWALD

"Youre not man enough. I can do

it."

---

## Page 53

13-00000

2-

Negro (in Spanish): "I can't go with you: I have a lot

to do."

OSWALD

: 'The people are waiting for me back

there."

The Negro gave OSWALD six thousand five hundred dollars

in large denomination US

bills saying:

"This isn't much." Of the

sum, one thousand five hundred dollars was for extra expenses.

The

Negro also gave him about 200 Mexican pesos.

Later, ALVARADO saw a pretty girl,whom he believed to be.

a Cuban employee of the Consulate, give OSWALD an abrazo embrace

and tell him she was living at Galle Juarez number 407 where he

could find her. The girl appeared to about 20 years ald and had

manners which reminded ALVARADO if a prostitute OSWALD, the Negra

and the Canadian then went upstairs.

ALVARADO left the building momentarily to buy popsicle

on the corner; he saw the above three men leave by the Embassy gate

near the corner of Tacubaya where they entered a parked black car,.

possibly a Chvrolet.

At the end of September, ALVARADO telephoned the American

Embassy several times to report his belief that someone important

in the United States was to be killed.

When ALVARADO saw OSWALD's photograph in the newspaper,

he again contacted the Embassy on 25 November.

MEXI- 7069 (IN 68376), 26 November 1963]

25 November 1963

ALVARADO called the United States Embassy.

That same

evening he met with the Embassy security officer.

[MEXI-7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963]

[Comment: According to the Mexican police report of the interroga-

tion of ALVARADO, the latter called the American Embassy and

"succeeded in speaking to a high official with whom he made an ap-

pointment for that same day at 5:30 p.m. near the Hotel Maria

Isabel.]

---

## Page 54

13-00000

3 -

Two individuals appeared for the 5:30 p.m. appointment.

They identified themselves and were carrying the credentials of.

FBI agents.*. ALVARADO told about his seeing OSWALD, etc. Another

appointment was made for 9:15 the next morning at the Jena Restau-

rant.

[HMMA -22561, 5 December 1963; CSCI-3/779,136, 13 December 1963]

"Comment: The two individuals were SNIGHT, the Embassy security

officer,- and A. C. PLAMBECK (P), Mexican Station officer. ALVARADO

may have mistaken Embassy identification documents for FBI creden-

tials;

25 November 1963

ALVARADO claimed inter alia that two persons were in the

Cuban Embassy the morning of 25 November 1963 at 1100 who are in-

volved in the plot to assassinate President Kennedy. He described

them as one being a white person with a large cleft nose. The

other had closed cropped hair with a copote (sicl.*

ALVARADO claims that on the 18th of September, he. was in

the Cuban Embassy in Moxico Gity and he saw Lee Harvey OSWALD re

ceivé $0, 500. OSWALD was speaking with a Begro, about 29 years of

age, who had a scar on his jaw, and had reddish hair which is pro-

bably tinted. The Negro spoke English well and might be a North

American. OSWALD was speaking of eliminating someone.

The Negro

then said he was sorry that he could accompany OSWALD, saying:

"You understand my situation." To which OSWALD replied: "That's

all right, I can do this myself."

The "source" (ALVARADO ?) was of the opinion that OSWALD

had come from Havana: When OSWALD entered (the Consulate ?) he

was affectionately greeted by a female employee of the Cuban Em-

bassy, who has blue eyes and lives at Calle Juarez 407.

The "source" also stated that OSWALD was given $1,500

for extra expenses.

Source stated that when he went to the bath-

room he saw OSWALD counting the money, in American dollars, on the

patio which is adjacent.

---

## Page 55

13-00000

•4-

[Blind memorandum dated 25 November 1963]

[*Comment There is no indication in the file that any follow-up

was made on the information given in this paragraph. This parti-

cular information appears no where else in ALVARADO's interroga-

tions.]

26 November 1963

ALVARADO meets the same two men from the Embassy whom he

had the evening before, at the Jena Restaurant on the Avenida More-

los and the Paseo de la Reforma. The two men were accompanied by

a third man named Rodolfo GAVALDON. . ALVARADO went with these three

men to the cafeteria of the Hotel Francis after which they drove

up and down a few streets. ALVARADO told them again what he had

observed in the Cuban Consulate and they gave him 100 pesos. and

told him they woudl call him at the number 41-07-31, which is the

telephone number of the place where ALVARADO was living. ALVARADO

was called the same day at 8:45 p.m. and was toid to meet the three

men later in front of the Juarez monument.

(Blind memorandum, dated 25 November 1963; Memorandum to Clark

ANDERSON, Legal Attache, dated 28 November 1963; did HMMA-22561,

5 December 1963, and CSCI -3/779,136, 13 December 1963.1

26 November: 1963

Station officer and local security officer are inter-

viewing a Nicaraguan who claims that on 18 September he saw Lee

OSWALD received six thousand five hundred dollars during a meeting

Instde the Cuban Embassy in Mexico eity.

(MEXI-7067 (EN 68291), 26 November 1963]

[Comment: This cable was the first report to Headquarters on the

allegations made by ALVARADO.]

26 November 1963

At the appointed place and time the evening of 26 Novem-

ber, Rodolfo GAVALDON meets ALAVARADO. They take a cab to the

corner of the Hotel Maria Isabel where another American is waiting

---

## Page 56

13-00000

- 5

for them; together they cross the street and enter an apartment in

a building at the corner of Oxford, and Reforma. After talking with

these men, ALVARADO received 500 pesos and was told to move to a

hotel and to tell them which hotel he moved into.

[HMMA - 22561, 5. December 1963; CSCI-3/779,136, 13 December 1963]

---

## Page 57

13-00000

6

=75.

26 November 1963 (date of cable)

Managua Station reports on identity of ALVARADO and

suggests that "Should case develop to point where Mexico and Head-

quarters

believe it desireable to break ALVARADO, the Station

could probably arrange to have

officer who handled him come to

Mexico to question him."

-[MANA-4609-(IN 68452), 26- November 1963]

(Comment:

26 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Dissemination by cable to the FBI, State, and the White

House reporting preliminary results of ALVARADO interrogation and

results of Headquarters name trace.

"1.

On 26 November 1963 Gilberto ALVARADO, a

professed Castroite Nicaraguan born 31 January

1940 in Ciudad Rama, Zelaya,

Nicaragua, came

to the American Embassy

in Mexico and made:

statement about Lee OSWALD.

He said that on

18 September 1963 he saw Lee OSWALD receive

six thousand five hundred dollars in a meeting

inside the Cuban-Embassy in Mexico City.

"2. About himself, ALVARADO said he in Mexico

City awaiting false documentation so he could

go to Cuba for sabotage training:

three other members of his organization in Ni-

caragua as

Juan LURILLO, Rolan ALVARADO, anc

Carlos FONSECA Amador.

Questioning of ALVARADC

is continuing.

"3. (Comment: Gilberto ALVARADO is a well-known

Nicaraguan communist underground member who is

also a regular informant of the Nicaraguan Security

Service and officer of which has provided this-

Agency with his reports for over

a year.

We con-

sider his reliability to be questionable although

he has not been wholly discredited.

The

other men

he names are_well-known Nicaraguan communists..

check

of the

where

files of this Agency does

not show

Lee OSWALD actually was on 18 September 1963,

when ALVARADO says he saw OSWALD in the Cuban Em-

bassy in Mexico

but based on the information

available to this Agency as of this date OSWALD

visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico for the

first

time after 25 September

1963.)"-

[DIR 85089, 26 November 1963]

27 November 1963

Headquarters suggests to Mexico Station that "In your

investigation, suggest you contact ÀLVARADO's

case officer

3/N

---

## Page 58

13-00000

in Mexiço City and ask him whether ALVARADO has ever told him this

story or anything like it."

[DIR 85178, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico Station that "After considera-

tion by BRENT and KNIGHT, we feel that investigation and analysis

of ALVARADO's story should be pursued further before more excutive

action

is taken."

[DIR 85198, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters makes dissemination to FBI, State, and the

White House incorporating information

forwarded to Headquarters

in MEXI -7069 (IN 68376, 26 November 1963 (q.v.)

[DIR 85199, 27 November 19631

27 November 1963

ALVARADO's story being checked as thoroughly as Station

assets make' possible. He also being re-interviewed in much

greater

detail. ALVARADO is being moved to safe address.

[MEXI-7093, (IN 68530), 27. November 1963]

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

Two Station officers interviewed ALVARADO in safehouse

again night of 26 November: ALVARADO!'s story remained substan-

tially the same. ALVARADO says he has been to Cuban Consulate on

2 or 3 September, 15 or 16 September, 18 September, 26 September

and 25 November.

The Station comments that "Station photographic

coverage of the Cuban Embassy did not include consulate gate until

October." ALVARADO did not appear in photographs of persons using

Embassy gate. He admits visiting the Soviet Embassy 6 or 7 times;

however, he has not been identified in photographie coverago of

Soviet Embassy.

[MEXI-7098 (IN 69127), 27 November 19631

---

## Page 59

13-00000

27 November 1963

Ambassador MANN send message via CIA channels to RUSK,

McCONE, and HOOVER in which he suggest inter alia that Washington

"should urgently consider feasibility of requesting Mexican authori

ties to arrest for interrogation:

Eusebio AZCUE, Luisa CALDERON,

and Alfredo MIRABAL.*

(MEXI-7104 (IN 69225), 27-November 1963]

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

FBI says OSWALD applied for unemployment insurance in

New Orleans on I7 September, one day before ALVARADO says he saw

him in Cuban Embassy, Mexico. FBI checking all airlines to see if

he could have flown to Mexico by 18 September. He was in New.

Orleans on 25 September and left that day for Texas without paying

his rent...

He is believed to have been without funds during this

period. FBI says his New Orleans landlady believes he was there

rear.

continuously between 17 and 25 September.

[DIR 85258, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

According to Mexico Station, ALVARADO story after

two in-

stallments tends prove only that he has been in Cuban Embassy and

knows some

of employees by sight, name or both. To resolve doubt

only effective way is to have cooperation of Major JEREZ directed

by his headquarters in interrogating ALVARADO.

If HQ agrees sug-

gest he be cabled urgently to cooperate without question with

American officer who will contact him morning 28 November.

Station

wishes JEREZ be present during interrogation to throw all Nicaragua

official weight behind it, but not to participate except in portion

relative ALVARADO's alleged mission for JEREZ.

[MEXI-7107 (IN: 69310), 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963

Headquarters states that "in the face of mounting evi-

dence that ALVARADO is fabricating his story of seeing

OSWALD take money in the Cuban Embassy, urge you fol-

low up with his local

case officer and avail yourself

24

---

## Page 60

13-00000

≥4.

of the help of the

service, which can

se the interrosation sode finas se incredible

interrogation.

that the Cubans would brief and pay an assassin

in front of a NIC interloper.

We think

it pos-

sible or even likely that he has been in and out

of the Cuban Embassy

as a NIC agent trying to

infiltrate Cuba and has picked up

the names

and

faces there in

so doing.

All he has said about

OSWALD he could have gotten from the

newspapers,

except for certain incorrect items such as his

statement that OSWALD wore

glasses.

2. The fact that ALVARADO is a calm,

nice, and

intelligent young man does not mean he is not

fabricator..

FYI we and other agencies are being-

flooded by fabrications on

the OSWALD case from

several continents, some originating with people

on the fringes of the intelligence business.

Such fabrication are not usually done for money,

but out of sickly fancy and a desire to get into

the intelligence game.

3.

We do not think it a

remarkable coincidence

that both DORTICOS--and ALVARADO talk about-money

paid to OSWALD.

For one thing, pay for an assassin

isa factorwhich immediately_rises-in the mind of

expert and layman alike..

Secondly, DORTICOS may

have heard through some Russian or

Cuban source

in the Mexican Government that DURAN was asked

whether the Cubans paid OSWALD for the alleged

assignment."

4 Whi-lo-we-do not insist

at RADO 99+01

is beyond all belief, we do urge that MEXI place

it one have enter the most

ching scrutiny..

His intorrogators must probo doe

make-up and tear him back

[PIR 85616,

November 1963]

06

Captain

Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia.

(Name encrypted in

text.)

28 November 1963 (date of Cable)

-FBI says their follow-up Investigation of OSWALD's acti-

vities- has rpoduced "reasonable indications" that he was in New

Orleans on-19 September 1963. This, coupled with earlier evidence-

that he was in New Orleans applying for-unemployment insurance on

17 September 1963, means_OSWALD would have had to fly to Mexico and

back between 17 and 19 September in order to be at the Cuban Embassy

getting his pay-off, as ALVARADO claims, on 18 September. With

this added information, believe Mexico can confidently regard

ALVARADO as fabricator and tailor interrogation accordingly.

[DIR 85653, 28 November 1963]

3IIN

---

## Page 61

13-00000

- 9

28 November 1963

Headquarters informs Mexico that

We have just heard by phone from KINGMAN,

that MEXI evaluation of ALVARADO

story may have

who is at home been seriously warped by a piece

of misinformation which has crept into this

conversation with your officers, KINGMAN,

has the impression that they believe

there is

other evidence that Lee OSWALD made a bank de=

posit of five thousand dollars in the United

States after he got back from Mexico on 3 October

This would tend,

to corroborate

ALVARADO's story that he saw OSWALD get five

thousand for the job and fifteen hundred for ex-

penses.

KINGMAN thinks he heard that CURTIS

Winston SCOTT) got the information.

bank deposit from an FBI man named Clark.

We. know of no such bank deposit and have n

never heard of, one. FBI here has just affirmed

they never heard this story:

The story of the

loposit of five thousand dollars is thorofore

almost certainly erroneous.

Please check it

with FBI there. We have advised FBI that this

rumor exists in Mexico.

"3.

*84..

FBI has just levied on us, official request

for full information on source and origin of

rumor about a five thousand dollar bank deposit!.

(DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters stresses to Mexico that "There should

be no let down in your effort to follow all leads' and investigate

all facts which bear on this case. We have by no means excluded

the possibility that other as yet unknown persons may have been in

volved or oven that other powers may have played a role. Please

continue all your coverage of Soviet and Cuban installations and

your liaison with Mexicans."

[DIR 85655, 28 November 1963]

Comment: This remark by Headquarters was in support of its posi-

tion in response to Ambassador MANN's earlier message, in which

Headquarters expressed its distinct feeling that "the Ambassador

is pushing this case too hard, and . . . might well create flap

with Cubans which could have serious repercussions."]

---

## Page 62

13-00000

28. November 1963

Mexico Station requests OPIM authoritization turn ALVARAD

over to Mexican authorities with a brief explanation he claims to

be. witness. to payoff to OSWALD in Cuban consulate 18 September,

admits is in Mexico Illegally, admits Communist Party membership,

admits visits to soviet Embassy, claims that Cuban consulate now

involved in documenting him with false Mexican papers for travel

to Cuba.: Latter point alone would give Mexican authorities good

reason to subject him to detailed interrogation.

[MEXI-7113 (IN

), 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters responded to the Station's request (see

above) by saying not to turn ALVARADO over to the Mexicans. "We

have officially asked the FBI for their position on this move, and

pending the FBI's answer and our final consideration, ALVARADO

should not be surfaced to the Mexicans:

or turned over to them.

"2..

Advise us if the FBI in Mexico attempts to get you

to act one way of the other on the question of turning ALVARADO

over to the Mexicans."

Headquarters concludes Its message to Mexico by commentine

that Larry KEENAN, an fBI agent, is now in Mexico. He was sent

especially to follow up leads on the entire assassination.

Hoad-

quarters asks that the Station cooperate with him fully.

[DIR 85661; 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates by cable to the FBI, State,

and the White House, the information obtained from ALVARADO during

night of 26 November, 1963. Information obtained from ALVARADO on

the latter date was forwarded to Headquarters in MEXI-7098 (IN

69127), 27 November 1963. (See appropriate entry above.)

(DIR 85662, 28 November 1963]

20 Novemb

---

## Page 63

13-00000

-'s.

9/TV

28 November 1963

Mexico

Station reports that

Mr. Clark ANDERSON, Legal Attache, told

-the COS and Ambassador MANN of rumor that

'OSWALD had deposited five thousand dollars

in a bank in the United States!

"7' coS

On 27 November Ambassador in presence

asked ANDERSON about this

again and

ANDERSON

said rumor was on television and

radio in Mexico.

ANDERSON

said he had no

information from his Headquarters to con-

deny this. He said he would check

his Headquarters.

COS has not heard rumor regarding five

-thousand dollar deposit on television or

but feels sure ANDERSON or some of

his office did hear this. This Station had

no additional information concerning this;

but-assume ALVARADO_mayhave.heard-same_

radio or television report and thus have had

'basis' for five thousand dollar payment."

[MEXI-7114 (IN 69621) , 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

The Managua Station in Nicaragua stated that it had

• requested (General Gustavo MONTIEL) *

cooperation Mexico through, Major JEREZ and if

possible by sending Captain WHEELOCK) *6to

Mexico.06MONTIEL) said ALVARADO in Mexico with-

out (Service's) authority and passed-off.sug--

estion use Jikes but agreed immediately t

..send WHEELOCKLO

-- He. (WHEELOCKonow.in

process getting visa and plane reservations

andwils_ probably be in Mexico today unles:

Headquarters and Mexico wish to cancel.

Even though his story regarding ÖSWALD

may be false it possible he has been

other angle to penetrate Cubans and

(WHIBELOCK

will be able to assist in getting facts straight."

IMANA-4613 (IN 69629), 28 November 19631

06

I* (General Gustavo MONTIED,

Nicaraguan Army. (Name encrypted in text.)

Major Roger JEREZ Alfaro, Military Attache, Nicaraguan

Embassy, Mexico City.

Captain franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia, Chief Of Anti-

Communist Section of the

(name

encrypted in text.)

---

## Page 64

13-00000

- 10

over to Mexican authorities and that the Agency

request Mexican authorities to interrogate

ALVARADO in detail.

The FBI reports that it understands that

Mexican authoritieshaveacapability of poly-

graphing and requests that the Agency request

Mexican authorities that he be polygraphed.

"3. The FBI expressed a desire to have the

results of the interrogation

as soon

as possible

and that the Legal Attache be kept advised of

developments.

"4. The FBI takes the position that inasmuch as

may be released

some time today (28

November, according to intormation which the rBl

the Legal Attache, ALVARADO should be

turned over to

as possible,

so that their

stories can be checked against each

Mexico Station is instructed to carry out the

FBI's requests- set out-above.-Give full coopera-

tion to the Legal Attache.

[DIR 85663, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

of

Manuagua Station reports that Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK

Garcia) a Captain National, and chief of the Anti-Communist Section

of the

will arrive in Mexico at 0945

on 29 November 1963.

[MANA-4614 (IN 68671) , 28 November 1963J

28 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates the following to the FBI,

State Department, and White House:

"Acting on a request made to this Agency

by

the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 28

November 1963,

our Agency is instructing its

office in Mexico City to turn over Gilberto

ALVARADO, Nicaraguan informant who claims that

he saw Lee OSWALD accept six thousand five

hundred dollars in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

on 18 September 1963 to assassinate Presi-

dent Kennedy, to officials of the Mexican Minis

try of Government for further interrogation and

investigation.

On 28 November, ALVARADO had

still not changed his story, despite increasing

doubt that it was true. The Nicaraguan Intelli-

gence Service, for which ALVARADO once worked,

is dispatching a senior official to Mexico-City

to assist in the interrogation and investigation

at the discretion of the Federal Bureau-of In

vestigation. Notification of the appropriate

---

## Page 65

13-00000

- 14 -

Mexican office for the turnover was effected

at 1630 Washington time on 28 Novembèr 1963."

(DIR 85666, 28 Nevember 1963)

[Comment: This cable is the first time that President Kennedy

was mentioned as the target of OSWALD's alleged mission described

by ALVARADO. The conversation between the red-haired Negro and

OSWALD, as reported by ALVARADO, makes no mention of a specific

person. ]

28 November 1963

Mexico Station requests that a Spanish-speaking poly-

graph operator be made available for ALVARADO and possibly for

others.

[MEXI-7120 (IN

), 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters responds that there is no Spanish-speaking

polygraph operator.

"2." For reasons of security and compartmenta-

tion, prefer not to have. Agency operator doublo

tracked with Mexican operator.: Would only con-

fuse the case..

Prefer to wait until all Mexi-

can resources

exhausted before we decide if we

want to resume management of case, including

polygraph.

13.

• Seasoned operators available here on short

notice."

[DIR 85667, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that

"1. COS in contact with acting Minister of

Gobernacion Luis ECHEVARRIA at 1430 hrs Mexi -

co City time and ECHEVARRIA grateful that

ALVARADO being turned over to Gobernacion.

ECHEVARRIA was given ALVARADO's present

address and alias under which he registered.

Mexicans will pick him up and question him

on basis. of very brief story given ECHEVARRIA

by COs."

EMEXI-7124 (IN

), 28 November 1963]

---

## Page 66

13-00000

- 12-

29 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that the COS is handling the

OSWALD case personally and that continuous liaison with the

Ambassador and the Legal Attache is necessary. The COS wishes

to control these contacts personally.

IMEXI-7I26 (IN 70104), 29 November I963]

29 November 1963

An official of the Ministry of Governacion reported to

the Station that ALVARADO claims he present inside the Cuban Em-

bassy when OSWALD given six thousand five hundred dollars.. The

Station comments that ALVARADO gave the Mexicans the same story

he gave Station officers. One difference is that ALVARADO failed

to identify Silvia DURAN from several photographs he was shown.

ALVARADO had identified her when he was being questioned by the

Station.

[MEXI -7127 (IN 70145), 29. November 1963]

29 November 1963

Headquarters asks Mexico Station"... (to) continue

to keep us filled in on status of interrogation of Silvia DURAN,

ALVARADO, and others implicated as fast as you can get information.

We have no other ready source of information on these cases. Re-

quest you utilize capable officer for liaison with Gobernacion to

skim off details and relay them to your office for cabling to us

at regular intervals. Request status report, even negative, by

0900 Mexico time. Be sure to keep us informed of what information

if any is leaked to public information media."

[DIR 85672, 29 November 1963]

29 November 1963

In the interest of speed, Headquarters wishes to be

"sure that you are immediately giving the Legal Attache everything

you get about ALVARADQ and DURAN so. the Legal Attache in Mexico

City can cable the same data direct to FBI Headquarters.

Please

---

## Page 67

13-00000

- 18

satisfy yourself that the Legal Attache there has adequate commo

facilities and secretarial staff to keep its Headquarters informed

as fast as you keep us informed, and advise us on this.

If you find that the Legal Attache there does not

have adequate commo or staff and wants to rely on us to relay the

material, they may of sourse send messages right through our

channels, or you can rely on us to relay the information as we

have been."

[DIR 8.5712, 29 November 1963]

29 November 1963

The Moxico Station responded to the above message by

stating that

The Legal Attache is locally being advised

by Cos personally of everything Station learns

concerning OSWALD case and, now, on ALVARADO

interrogation.

12.

Felt sure that Legal Attache's office, which

almost same size as the

Station, has adequate

staff for reporting needs.

"3.

Usual procedure here is that COS notifies

Headquarters, reports to the Legal Attache and

to the Ambassador orally then subsequently ad-

vises the Legal Attache by memorandum.

"4., Headquarters is assured that all information

known to Station on these cases

is being given

to

them and shortly after information obtained.

(MEXI 7128 (IN 70162), 29 November 19631

29 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates to the FBI,, State department

and the White House that "The first very sketchy report on the pro-

gress of the. Mexican official interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

... shows he is; telling essentially the same story.'"?

The

Mexican official doing the interrogation of ALVARAD says he.

"doubts' ALVARADO's story and will begin work to 'break' him."

[DIR 85744, 29 November 19631

29 November 1963

Thief nif Merion Station forwards memorandum to Mr. Clark

---

## Page 68

13-00000

3/N

-14 -

D. ANDERSON, Legal Attache, containing the results of three inter-

views, conducted by the local security officer and members of the

Mexican Station on 26 November 1963, of Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO

Ugarte.

[See memorandum for complete text.]

29 November 1963

Official of Ministry of Gobernacion stated that after

his first session with ALVARADO he believed ALVARADO's story to be

a fantastic lie; after

second session and all previous and interim

interrogations, ALVARADO sticks to same story on OSWALD. Official"

stated "Although this still preliminary, either ALVARADO is telling

the truth essentially or he is the best liar I have talked to in my

many years and I have talked to some of the biggest." He is in-

clined to believe ALVARADO is telling the truth in general outline,

but believes he is mixed up on dates.

[MEXI-7156 (IN

), 29 November 1963]

29. November 1963

Mexico Station reports that Captain (WHEELOCK)has arrived

in Mexico City and is staying at the Geneve Hotel.

(Ibid.]

-29 November 1963

Captain (HEBLOG)meets with-official.from.Ministry.of

Gobernacion; he tells the official that ALVARADO has been 75%

accurate in his reporting and had had access to and furnished good

information on communism in the past. (WHEELOCK)said, however,

ALVARADO

is inclined

to'

"go off on his own" at times and impossible

to control.

[MEXI-7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963]

30 November-1963

At 1030 hours (Mexico City time), official from Ministry

of Gobernacion told the Chief of Station: that'ALVARADO has signed

a statement saying that story of seeing OSWALD inside the Cuban

Embassy is completely false: He also stated that he had not

---

## Page 69

13-00000

-18 -

seen anyone handed money by Cuban consular officers." He said too

he had not called the U.S. Embassy (as he had previously claimed)

on 20 September to warn them. His first call to the Embassy was

on

25 November, the evening he saw the U. S. Embassy security

officer.

[MEXI-7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963}

30 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that the Legal Attache is being

informed of the above information (as well as other information

contained in MEXI -7168) .

[MEXI-7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963)

30 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

"Headquarters disseminates information to FBI, State

Department, and the White House, that ALVARADO admitted his story

was a fabrication.-

[DIR 86063, 30 November 19631

30 November 1963

Headquarters asks the Station obtain all details on

ALVARADO's-confession.The-Stationis asked-to"continue-to_follow

all-leads-and tips. The question bf whether OSWALD acted solely.

on his own has still not been finally resolved.

[DIR 86064, 30 November 19631

2 December 1963

0606

Captain

WHEELOCK) saw ALVARADO during afternoon for first

time. Meeting lasted only seven minutes. In brief interview in

company of two Mexican officials, ALVARADO reverted to his pre-

vious story. He claimed he did see OSWALD, did call the U.S.

Embassy to report. (Embassy investigation does not support latter

statement.) He went to say that he told the Mexicans he was fabri-

cating because

he was "mentally mistreated", i.e., threatened with

physical harm, although he was not actually physically mistreated.

---

## Page 70

13-00000

- 18.

06

WHEELOCK) said he unable to come to any definite conclusion as to

ALVARADO's veracity; however, he would be able to do so once he re-

turned to Managua and had chance to complete the interrogation.

(NB: ALVARADO was to be deported to Nicaragua on 4 December.)

[MEXI 7203 (IN 71702), 2 December 1963]

3 December 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico Station that although we are

confident that ALVARADO is a fabricator and that his retraction

of his confession is false, it has been decided that he should be

placed on the polygraph. Headquarters asks that Station arrange

to have ALVARADO to be released to us for several days and ask

(WHEELOCK) to remain in Mexico to assist.

Calvin DAVIS of the Office of

Security will arrive on

4 December. Polygraph should be administered in safehouse and all

sessions should be recorded. DAVIS will be in charge of the poly-

graph interview; however, he will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON,

who has been selected here as interpreter.

The FBI will notify

ANDERSON of this. The idea is that ANDERSON would be able to tes

tify at any later hearing.

[DIR 86563, 3 December 19631

3 December 1963

ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of Gobernacion, agrees to

permit the COS to "borrow" ALVARADO. Station submits plan for

handling LAVARADO:

06

a.

Clark ANDERSON and

of Legal Attache

office to pick up ALVARADO from Gobernacion.

b. ALVARADO will be taken to safehouse or hotel

suite.

c. ANDERSON TO

will-act-as interpreters=

d. Plan to "borrow' ALVARADO early morning-of.

5 Decembor and return him that evening.

(MEXI 7229. (IN 72877), 3 December 19631

---

## Page 71

13-00000

20

4' December 1963

Headquarters approves Station's plan and adds that the

"exact role of the FBI men is up to their local chief . :.."

The FBI has specified that Mr. ANDERSON act as their participant

in the interrogation and any variance should have approval of Mr.

ANDERSON.

(DIR 86621, 4 December 19631

5 December 1963

More plans by Station for interrogation of ALVARADO.

[MEXI-7256 (IN 74273), 5 December 1963]

5. December 1963

Mexican Station forwards copies of Mexican interrogation

report on Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte. Station notes that a copy of

this report was handed to the Legal Attache.

[HMMA-Z2561, 5 December 1963)

5 December 1963

Preliminary questioning of ALVARADO took place.

MEXI 7267 (IN 74696), 6 December 1963J

6. December 1963

ALVARADO submitted to examination by polygraph. The

results of this examination indicated that he was fabricating his

story. Interrogation revealed that ALVARADO was unsure as to the

day of the week he allegedly saw OSWALD. He thinks it was on Tues-

day which would have been 1? September. When ALVARADO was shown

a series of photographs during the testing, deception patterns

became evident. When he was, confrinted with this he answered that

he had the utmost confidence in the polygraph and that it must be

correct. The interrogation was concluded with ALVARADO admitting

he must have made, "honest mistake" in relating original story in

his identification of OSWALD.

ALVARADO to be held by the Mexicans until 9 December.

---

## Page 72

13-00000

21

18-

I December 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters cables a dissemination to the FBI on the

results of the examination by polygraph of Giberto ALVARADO.

The re-interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

Nicaraguan informant, who claimed to have

seen Lee OSWALD receive money to assassinate

Kennedy, has been concluded.

Our Mexico

City Station advises us that ALVARADO admitted

he must have been mistaken

in saying..that he

saw OSWALD in the Cuban Embassy.

Also, he was

uncertain of the date on which he might have

seen someone like OSWALD and thought it must

been on a Tuesday, which would have made

it 17 September 1963.

report of the polygraph interview is not yet

available, the preliminary finding is that

ALVARADO evidenced deception reactions when

talking about OSWALD.

"It is expected that ALVARADO will be deported

to Nicaragua on 9 December 1963.

"A representative of your Bureau participated

in the interrogation of ALVARADO.

[DIR 87667, T December 1963]

7 December 1963

An official of the Ministry qf Gobernacion advised the

Chief of Station that ALVARADO will be returned to Managua by

TACA flight no. 773 leaving Mexico at 0930 hours on & December.

(MEXI-7290 (IN 75835), T December 1963]

13 December 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters forwards a translation of the Mexican

police interrogation report on Gilberto ALVARADO. to the FBI:

Attached is a translation.of the Mexican

police interrogation report on Gilberto

ALVARADO, Nicaraguan who claimed to have seen

Lee OSWALD accept $6500 in the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City to assassinate President

The report states that ALVARADO re-

made them to induce the U. S. to take stronger

action against Cuba.

-n2. The two persons whom ALVARADO met and to

whom he first told his story are undoubtedly

officers of this Agency, His claim that they

used FBI credentials is, of course, absolutely

false, Our officors use no credentials in

Mexico City.

ATTrADATO

---

## Page 73

13-00000

22

19

Mexican police and had to be reinterro-

gated by representatives of this Agency

and your

Bureau.

This later interroga-

tion showed that he was probably lying."

[CSCI 3/779,136 13-December 1963. (Comment: Translation was

made of the Mexican police report forwarded to Headquarters as

an attachment to HMMA-22561, 5 December 1963.)]

31. January 1964

The Agency forwards a memorandum to the Warren Commission

enclosing a presentation of the information developed by CIA on or

about Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City.. A summary of the informa-

tion relating to the monetary payment to OSWALD and the investiga-

tion of this allegation appears on pages llthrough 14 of the en-

closure.

[Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January 1964; subject:

Information Developed by CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD

in Mexico City, 28 September - 3 October 1963.]

21 April 1964

The General Counsel, J. Lee RANKIN, of the Warren Commis-

sion forwards the following memorandum to the Deputy Directer for

Plans:

"On behalf of the Commission I would like

to thank you and your representatives for the

fine cooperation which was extended to represen-.

tatives of the Commission during the course of

their work in Mexico City from April 8 through

I am informed that Mr. SCOTT,

Ape 2 134 Of your Station In Mexico City, was

particularly generous with his time and

advice

and, in fact, contributed greatly to the success

of our mission in Mexico..

"During their stay in Mexico City the

-Commission representatives discussed with

SCOTT and agents of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation that portion of the bee

Harvey OSWALD investigation which concerned

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarto.

-Wo are awaré, of

course, from previous reports that the allega-

tions made by ALVARADO were thoroughly inves-

tigated by Central Intelligence Agency and

Federal Bureau of Investigation representatives

in Mexico City in liaison with the responsible

lawrenforcement authorities. Reference is

made to the discussion of these

allegations in

vario mamnrandim

---

## Page 74

13-00000

"Upon review of our complete: file on

this matter, we find that we lack

mentation of the investigation conducted of

these allegations. It would be helpful if

our records could be supplemented by a report

from your Agency supplying more details re-

garding the investigation undertaken by your

Agency and other concerned Agencies into this

matter and your evaluation as to the truth of

ALVARADO's assertions.

In particular,

it would

be helpful if a report could be submitted by

the expert who conducted the polygraph exami-

nation which emphásizes the specific conclusions

which he made based on the responses by ALVARADO

in answering key questions on this matter."

Letter to Mr. Richard Helms, Deputy Director for Plans,

datod: 21 April 1964, from J, Lee RANKIN, General Counsel 1

1 June 1964

In response to the above letter from the General Counsel

of the Warren Commission, the Agency forwarded by memorandum the

texts of the following disseminations relative to ALVARADO that

were made to other U.. S. Government agencies:

a. OUT Teletype No. 85089,

dated 26 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

OUT Teletype No. 85199, dated 27. November 1963,

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.-

OUT Teletype No. 85662, dated 28 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

d.

OUT Teletype No. 86068,

dated 30 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

OUT Teletype No. 85666,

dated 28 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

f.

Memorandum, dated 12 Isic - 13] December 1963

Subject:

Mexican Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO.

OUT Teletype No. 87667, dated 7 December 1963;

Subjeer: Lee Harvey-OSWALD.

[Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964, from

Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject: Gilberto

ALVARADO Ugarte. 1

13 October 1964

The General Counsel forwards the following letter

to

the Honorable John A. MCCONE, DCI:

Waara anitain monit

• 1494 99

---

## Page 75

13-00000

24

dated January 31, 1964, concerning informa-

tion developed by CIA on the activity of

Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28

September

3 October 1963.

IWe have deleted all references to the Secret

Agent by the marking',

Since this docu-

ment was cited in our summary repart, we are

requesting your authority to publish

this form.

If this is not agreeable, may we

have a synopsis of this document which may be

published."

[Lettér to John A. McCONE, Director, Central Intelligence

Agency, dated 13 October 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General

Counsel. Enclosures: Commission Documents 347 and 1084.]

20 Oerober 1963

The Deputy Director for Plans forwards a memorandum

to the General Counsel of the Warren Commission in response te

the latter's letter of 13 October 1964.

"The Commission's Report (pages 307-308)

contains information furnished by

in memoranda dated 31 January and 1 June 1964.

Since both include information relative to in-

telligence methods and operations which should

not be placed in the public domain, I suggest

the use of the revised and consolidated ver-

sions dated 4 June 1964 which is forwarded as

an attachment. "

[Memorandum for Mr..J. Lee RANKIN, dated 20 October 1964,

from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans.]

---

## Page 76

13-00000

(15) Were there any efforts made to develop an OSWALD/Cuban

Connection?

(16) What form did they take?

(17) What oxchanges were there with the FBI on this subject?

(18) What action developed from these exchanges?

(19)

What records are there on these exchanges and where are

they?

---

