# 104-10071-10354

## Page 1

104-10071-10354

VIA:

Air Pouch

Y AIR OR SEA P'UCH)

SECURITY INFORMATION

SASSREITION

DISPATCH NO. FOA-A- 5418

DATE

26 November 1951 €

•TO

Chief, FDP

FROM.

Chief of Station,

SUBJECT GENERAL- Operational

SPECIFIC- Escape of Seven Bulgarian Refugees

Reference - PGA-A-4934, 5310, 5317, 5309, 6065, 6066,

7629

1 Attached herewith is the combined explanation of subjects activities

prior to their escape to Greece. The men were individually interrogated

by GASP. and GASP/3 in order to get an organized report on their activitles

and to check their individual statements against each other In an effort

to find out if any of the individuals may be a Bulgarian

agent.

They

were also interrogatod to ascertain their future possible operational

The report was prepared by REISER. Their individual reports mai

be pouched shortly:

20.

3:

While several arrests have resalted from subjects'

escape, it has not

he reta nor as the or of or me to persong have on in aboro

men are also Bulgarian I.S.' agents:

4..

The three Peltekov bodies and the tro Nikolov bodies have expressed a

willingness to undertake missions into Bulgaria. Their PRQ's have been

In order to properly evaluate

their operational potentials and to formulate operational plans, plus.

preventing them from getting contaminated in the Lavrion Camp, it is

requested that they be put in safehouses where they can be properly

handled; bearing in mind the views presented in the preceding paragraphs.

In the meantime the bodies will be individually evaluated and every

effort will be made to pick up ary additional information bearing on

the security factor.

26 Nor. 51

Неділи то

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

5. It is presently visualized to place the Peltekoys and the Nikolors in

separate safehouses..

If & sound operational plan is formulated for

each group, a project outline will be forwarded

order to be reasonably sure that the men who

go on

double cross us

r..

a mission will not

6.

Il permission to move the men to safehouses Is granted, It is requested

that the necessary expenditures be charged to THOlE until a project

outline, budget and PRQ's Part Il are forwarded.

7-

Reguest operation's cryptonym.

Li Dea

Desmon

RIB:Jt

Attchmt

Escape of Seven

Bulgarian Refugees

V..

to trinide can!

Wash-2

File-1

EX A-1

---

## Page 3

14-00000

АРок.,

ROSLATE INFORMATON

SUBJECT: Escape of Seven Bulgarian Refugees

REFERENCE: PGA-A-5310; 5311; 5309; 4934

1.

The following seven Bulgarian refugees arrived in Greece 21 June 1951:"

*Petur NIKOLOV EL

*Stevan PELTEKOVEZ

Ivan NIKOLOV GL

*drayko DAMJANOV GL

*Peter PELTEKOV EL

* BOriS PELTEKOVE

*Spas RATKINGA

Alter studying the Greek report and the report of our Kavalla sub station

: (PGK-A-478), it was decided to interrogate all seven of the refugees

again individually with the help of GASP and GASP/8 to check their stories,

analyze their accusations, and to determine their operational possibilities.

kato make the Story easier to understand, the seven persons may be divided

Into three groups:

a. Three Trudovaks who wanted to escape to Greece: Stefan PELTEKOV,

Zoravko DANJANO, and. Spas RAIKIN:

Ivan NIKOLOV and Petur NIKOLOV, members of an alleged anti-Commi

ist

group in the Plovdiv area which helped the Trudovaks to escape

C:

Petur PELTEKOV and Boris PELICKOV, the father and uncle respectively

of Stevan PELTEKOV, who served as intermediaries between the Trudovaks

and the anti-Communist organization in order to arrange the escape of

the Trudovaks. They became so involved arranging the flight that they

had to flee themselves in order to avoid arrest.

RAIKIN and DAMJANOV, two close friends from the Plovdiv area serving in

the sane Trudovak unit in Bezmer, decided to desert and escape to Turkey,

the nearest non-Comminist country.

In March 1951 the two Trudovaks were

transferred to a Trudovak unit in Balcil, where they became friendly with

another Trudovak,

Stevan PELTEKOV. PELTEKOV wanted to escape to Greece.

PELTEKOV was sure that he could get the assistance of his father, Petur

PELTEKOV, a farmer in Branipole, andrasil LAZAROV this brother-in-law,

who was a non-commissioned officer in the 9 Infantry Regiment in Plovdiv.

Since RAIKIN and DAMJANOV were unable to organize a safe escape to Turkey,

they decided to join PELTEKOV in his flight to Greece.

Since the inter of 1950 Stevan PELTEKOV had been urging his father to

help him to escape

Stevan:

Lior agreed to hela and made contact math stern in order ta

Tiri

KEEM

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Goryan i

organize his escase to greece. Fron that time all correspondence with

Stevan concerning the escage was caried by vasil LAZaROY and his rife,

heria.

"aria sent her brother a cirilian suit, and the father sent him

5,000 leva. Su the end of horil 1251 IZARON infored Stevan that he

had found a guide who would tare him to greece if Stevan could come to

Plovdiy before 7 lay 1951.

The three Tradkoraks decided to leate, end on ollar they deserted their

unit. They traveled on foot to

Jama, ald fron Vara to Plovdiv by train.

they arrived in Plorair on? lay mithout incident.

They were met by

-InZAROV and his nife, and they were then taken to a hiding place outside:

the city where they could be contacted at nignt by one of lAzARovis men

who would provide food and reasons. Zecause of confusion in recognition

signals, no contact was made during the night of 7=o lay 1951.

fore, on 8 Way the Tradovaks went to ?lordly to see LAZAPOV. On this

trip the Trudovaks net Foris FELTEROY, Stevan PELTEKOVis uncle. The :

Trudovaks, accomanied by, LhAPov, his rife, iaria, and Soris FELTaKOV,

left Plovdiv imediately and went tomerd a safer hiding place near the

village of larkovo This sane day they cane in contact mith the alleged

anti Coummist organization, and fros the contect many ntounderstandings

arose which led to hunerous arrests, and to many changes in the escase

8.

According to statenents of retur and ivan NIECIOV, there is at least a

rudimentary anti-Corminist organization in existence in the Plovdiv area

The NIKOLOV brothers were initiated into the organization in March 1951

by one/ingel HIstozcish larser, tho is allegedy the head of the

organization in the rallaze ofularrovo, Florair district.

There were

simlar groups in other yullages The pillage groups received their

orders fron the district headquarters in Plordiv.

apparently plays an important role in the florair organization because

his authority extended over the farcovo village group. Contact betireen

the Plovday headguarters and larkovo mas raintained by Angel PARoW and (cHAKAso)

Angel HRISTOZO?.

Vastl LADiRON mas aiso a member of the Ploydiv group in

spite of his ure-Cominist nast. LAZACY was probably the leader of the

anti-Cormnist organization in the 9 Infantry leginent, if that unit had

an organization. The organization is allegedly in contact with some

Turkish service.

In the mountains in the Plowdly area tuare mere several grops of rebels

called corjani.

There are supposed to de 50 to 300 sorjani in the

Lestensko bountains:

hey allegear had a diast irito regime forces

during the night of 19-20 2 2 2951.

Another group of four rebels had

acclash with police in the Fero nandove village ares.

In both cases

there here casualties on both sides.

These "jorjani" groups allegedly

are under the anti-commist orgenication (mich mer be called lova

repaolina. fontact with

ter anather. 3030rLng

treeroup in the renateine is maintained

whoacher tron the village officior.

ordi: distric

---

## Page 5

14-00000

- 3-

9.

Although LAZAROV stated that he had a guide available, he actually did

not have a guide at his disposal, nor did he have any personal. contact

with the "Gorjani". lie may have reported to the underground group that

the Trudovak deserters were to arrive- in Plovdiv. The underground organ-

ization may have decided that the three young men would be a valuable

adaition to their strength, especially since they had been compelled to

would fight for their lives.

The underground organi-

zation may not have been sure that the trudovaks would be willing to Join

the Gorjant instead of going to Greece, and they may have decided not to

say anything to the Trudovaks or to Petur and Boris PELTEKOV., the father

and old a eat there to no to the vile, bao snide

could be found to take them to the Gorjani.

-Golyard

10%

During the night of 8 May Petur NIKOLOV hid the deserters ine hiding

place near the village of Markovo. He gave them rifles, ammunition

(allegedly obtained from sympathetic soldiers in Plovair, and some food.

The following day, May, another member of underground in the village of

TOVe Ma Todoroy Storator. visited them and showed them how to overate

the weapons they had received. The same day the Trudovaks were taken by

Petar NIKOLOV to a place called Gol hogila which is in the mountains about

twenty kilometers south of warkovo. Waiting for them there were Vasil

LAZARov and his tentaria. Cola dogila was supposed to be the finals

hiding place until their departure to Greece.

Until his arrest, Ivan

NIKOLOV was providing the group with food.

Äfter NIKOLOV's arrest, the

group was given food; very irregularly, by Boris PELTEKOV

VasIl LAZAROV and his wife tried all day 10 May to persuade the trudovais

to Join the dorjani becäuse there was no guide available to take them to

Greece.

The Irudovaks refused the suggestion emphatically and insisted

that they wanted to flee to greece only LAZAROV left them with the

promise that he would find a way to organize the escape and that he and

his wife would join then.

12. For several days the Trudovaks were left at Gola logila without any

contact and without food.

They lost confidence in LAZAROV and decided

to go to larkovo and Plovdiv to find Stevan PELTlOVis father and uncle.

On Li May they met Boris PRuT 07 in flovaiv.

FILTEKOV told them to

return immediately to cola agila and he would bring them some food the

next day. The following day Boris brought them food:

13°

on 16 Way Ivan NIKCLOV brought a guide Allier juiror,ito cola Mosiza

who was supposed to take the Trudovairs the zollowing night to the

corjani.

The Trudovaks, not having a guide to take then to Greece and

being unable to remain alone in coln ogila, agreed to join the corjani.

The

next night no quide cond, mud lie midoraks later learned that he

had been arrested.

Ine, traderats rector desperate, and they wandered

---

## Page 6

14-00000

14.

16.

17.

18:

Sart

- 4

between Gola Horilay Floudiv, and arkovo looking for help. On

19 Day they were persuaded by Vasil LAZAROV to return to Gola Mogila to

wait for a guide.

The same day. LAZAROV was arrested, and on 22 Way his

wife was arrested.

The Trudovaks were told about the arrests by Peter

PELTEKOV who visited

them at Gola Mogila on 22 end 26 May. Peter POLISKOV

then assumed the task of finding a guide to take the Trudovaks either to

Greece or to the forjani.

The Trudovaks remained at Cola Mogila until 7 June.

On 7 June Boris

PELTEKOV came and told them that they could hide in NIKOlOV's home for

whiles They then rent to Ivan NIKOLOV's home In Markovo and learned

there that Petu clOY had been area prisone, and that asl

LAZAROV had betrayed all of them.

returned immediately to cola logila, while Zdravko DAlJANOV went to

Branipole to alert Petur and Boris PELTEKOV.

As a result of their aimless wandering about, carelessly explosing them-

selves to the sight. of many persons, even mithout a betrayal the police

In Plovdiv would have become suspicious:

The Plovdiv Police had aiso.

probably. received a request from the Trudovak unit to locate the deserters.

Therefore the arrest of Vasil LAZAROV was very natural, and the arrest of

Tiev GIURoV and Petur NIKOLoV was a natural consequence of the interroga-

CON Of LAZAROV CT22AWY Ivan NIKOLOV was arrested because öf the

Trudovaks but he was able to free himself the same day. After tro days

in Jail, Petup KOLOV admitted his connection with the Trudovaks and he

agreed to turithe trudovaks over to the police. It is surprising that

the police gave him the time and expertunity to viar the other members

of the plot

-On 8 June Ivan and Petur NIKOLOV joined the Trudovaks at Cola logila and

decided to flee to Greece themselves, since there ras no guide to tale

them to corjant They told the Trudovaks that they had warned Angel

SHRISTOZOV and other members of the organization, but that they had

refused to flee, hoping that they could out the blame for everything

on the NIKCLOV brothers. The NIkCLOv brothers felt that it was now time

to persuade Fetur and Doris PaLTukCi, who were also under suspicion, to

join the escape.

On 9 June Foris

BuTtici brought food to jola dogila and stated that Petur

PSITANOV did not consider the

natock too serious.

PELTONOV decided

see for his cather the same car,

Therefore, Stevan

but he was unable

The next day,

10 June, Boria vent

Has brother back to gria logila.

on 11 June the whole cross, condisting ai une three Tradovacs, the tio

TROLOY brothers.

They passed thrs:

tue clancy brothers: suarter. Coward Greece.

02449.

and Saozon.

after they fut

they Lost maches

secured re this.

Get noise toe cerean took ye?? and

bit"

tortes

Creace, and

---

## Page 7

14-00000

--31500

-÷-

19. 2unsi in Which Vasi? sciot hardled the escape glan and arieá to lead

tir trodovas do the Jorjans instead on to breece caused mior bad iseling

the prudoveirs and the rebegner brothers agairst lAzAr.

i and also

againt the INcLoY brothers mo has the same pier.

The Eradoralis manted

onl: to come to Greece. Because

o. = Insiderstanding or deiberate

decrit, LAZARCY was arrested and the NIKOLOV brothers were forced to flee

to ürrace.

In addition; during his interrogation, laziper betrayed not

1only the Tradovaks, but nembers of the undereround organization as tell.

Hey versens have been of will be imprisoned for this.

20. Duri: the first days o their flight all of them mere unarámous in

blaaing Vasi? LAZAROV for everything. Later Steven and the FaIrEKC!

brothers changed their mind because they could not believe that zov,

their relative by narriage, would betray them intentionally.

This caused

near hatred betireen the PEIdelors and the tarolous, minile the tridovaks

reminied neutral.

21 •

22.

Inov's record is not very favorable.

In I9uu be ras a legionnaire

against the Comminists.

later he joined a communist youtr cromization,

and finally becene secretary for culture and propaganda. de is now

serving in the army as a sergeant: he allegedly mas pronised a promotion

to ollicer grade if he would accomplish sonething usefui der the Communist

Parti.

IS ¡MAROV mas supposed to deliver the iridovaks to the police, he certainla

le opportunity to do so because ce the war in wich the pradovaks

wandred abcut..

The manner in rich the Plordir police handied the NIXCLOT

brotists is questionable, since the police nad not only suspicions but

eviluice against them.

Honever,

they aid not nelp the police catch the

desorters even though they could hare done so easily.

The Im-dovaks and

WENc: brothers couid haral, be suspected ci aly cou play.

coulusion!!

certainly does't look wer

promising-

---

