# 104-10063-10430

## Page 1

104-10063-104304

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Donaverys

OGG

Via

000/PICG

Sub•

Classification of EX 3600

313

se your request for "a couple sentences of factual

with: Operation Micros duringrits existence, I can only:

ofter-the. following.reasonable.surmise. As we now know,

duringats tenure MHCHAOs was one of the most sensitive

operations conducted under DDP aegis, repeatedly sanctioned

(in waiting) by the dcI.

tive chat it was

The activity was deemed so sensi-

handlinop

controlled by/through extremely restricted

Channels

I think

in

thatpany.

#follows logically, at least.

docume

formal or informal: one;

Produced by MHCHAOS, whether :

least SECRET:

would have been classified at.

information in this document warrant

classification todaya I think ft does, and I believe the g

curgent classification of CONFIDENTIAL:

is proper

Date

Mateor

W Reading

+7e 101

USE

EDI

darlineser

8885

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Pgs- 2 through 12 carefully, its readilyapparent. that

some of the information

on some lot,these pages was seemingl

acquired from/through sensitive sources/methods. /Also

these pages contain frequent mention of FBI information con-

cerning many lof. the Peace Movement groups/organizations it

cited; FBI reports received by MHCHAOS were invariably

glessified, for the most part CONFIDENTIAL. He

What should be the proper FOTA exemption For Ex

3600; s in my view,: (b. (3)•

Heer nerd

C/SCB/.IP.

7 APS 77

973 101

---

