# 104-10180-10064

## Page 1

104-10180-10064

DISPATCH

Crileí of station,

SUSTAIN

OSCRET

115T

16-2

Chief, Western lemisphere Division

WANT SPELAtIONAlITTYICI leno prepared at Headquartors

• REQUIRED REFERDICTI

Action Required: TYI

BANG PO MEE

DO POOLAS RANI

CART PALIMO DESI

CAN BOG NICOLAI

RETURN TO Cia

Backgroting Was 9Aly

Do No: Reprosues

Attached for your information is meno prepared at

Headquarters consolidating recent informtion on IDENTITY A.

(u.s.

Quigle

Matthew S. Dingley

Leonard N. REWALT

115

istribution

- cos.

Attachment:

CROSS REFERENCE 10

€5 102k

Distribution:

E/ IB/S

1

#H/C/FI

• NH/C/ESEC

it aire

14=2

Memo

USCa IDENTITIES A - G

OSIN-10305

SECRET

WH/C/FI/SOP

C./WH/C/ FI

E/1B/S

LaTE

761-239298

DATE

-20 JI. 1966

14 July 1966

MOS FILE NUMBER

201-239298

OH ARNATING

ahoney B

ENDINATIN

CHIRAL DONE

2625

19114

-dis

0r4 53

+80 +o83498839187

03

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SCRET

& July 1966

NSMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: IDEN A

IDEY A telephoned IDEN B on 15 June 1986

moo anted him to come to ladrid as soon aa poseible.

no that he could be back in San Juan before the 25th

of June.

The. Inplication vas that IDEN A should be

back in San Juan

in time to tall to a PERUMEN who

was with the PBRUMEN delegation to

the Tenth Central

American and Caribbean Gases. (ICEN C, was #

delegate to the Games).

IDEN A and IDEY P developed a plan that

Involved two action agents already inside PBRUMEN.

Ono was to assassinate ANTIUG either by rifle fire

or renote controlled radio activated exploalves

witle the other agent was to establish a military base

In the 'central part of PBRUMEN.

160-2

spoke with IDEN A who reported that he believed ANTHuG

would topple within the next few months and that

ke already had a group inside FeRUMEN.

3. IDEN A waa Interviewed upon bis return

to San Juan where he

reported that he did not have

any firm evidence that ANTICG would topple within

the next few monthe but only that he Intuitively belleved

that ANTHCG's downfall was inainent.

Re based this

on roports that things were gettlog vorse in PERUMEN

and that the people vere ready to revolt.

He also

based it on the fact that he roy bas too action agenta

'of the sane caliber as AHLASA Inside PBRUMEN who are

ready to do ais bidding.

A. TDEN A's 'agents' Inside PERIMEN are probably

IDEN C, who might cooperate ulth ID? E but not necessarily

(15-2)

---

## Page 3

14-00000

WIth IDIN A. Furtbor theré is no fira evidence that

IDEN & 10 agalost the present regine in PBROMEN.

IDEN D

is another possible contact.

Amin, other than some

unsupported allegations there is no

independent

fIre evidence that IDEN D 1e anti-regime.

IDEN A aleo clained in Mndrid that

IDEN I had dent bin & nessage and that be ras considered

• potential ally.

Ke explaioed inte

by sayans that during a prese conference his sane

had been mentioned and that IDE. E replied that he .

considéred IDIN A to be his friend®

IDEN A rationalized

•that 11 IDEN E had not vanted to indicate 1o some way

that he vas

with' IDIN A he would bave taken thie

opportunity to blast hia.

I debrieted IDEN A on bis Madrid trip and

intentions generally before l lotroduced his to

AMCADGER/1.

I had first asked sis if he would aind

to us via & trusted PERUMEN exile now living

in san duan and, after I bai dentified AMBADGE/L, he

replled that he

koor hin and respected and liked bu

the three of un had a voting and it was agreed that

IDEN A wOUld keep AMBADGER/1 completely Informed of

his plans and that AkFAIGER/i sould couver them to

= 1n PEPRIME.

IDEN A refused to reveal the

Identities of

his agents inside PERUHEN deapite atron!

He also stated that IDENT and IDEN G would

bave to knoy about his arrangeneat with AUBADGER/1

and with KUBARK.

IDEN F ANU ILLY G, together vie

IDEN A, are the triumvirate of too JURs.

Let so Dingle

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Under Separtate Cover Attachnent 80

IDEN A - MAnUeL RAY

IDEN B-

IDKN C -L

• IDEN D

IDEN E

706.

→ 706,08;

—706,08

7 04.08

IDEN Y - Daillo GUEDE

IDEN O - ArturO VILLAR

5/00

---

## Page 5

11-00000 .

13

13 Juby-1968

AMORANDUM TOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMBADGER 1

1s is a botter frame of mind tran previously ard te neede

some added push to reveal the paces.

2.

AHRADGER suggested that Gronesy come to

Puerto Rico to give AMBANG, that added pusil.

ASADGER 1

sald that AlBANGI apeaks fondly of cronery and se

belleres that Growery might convince AMPANC! to reveal

the naues.

Alternatively.

come to washington, D.C. for discussiona sith arouery.

3.

I agroed to write ABADGER-l the details

of processing his ulte's citizenship.

ANPADGER -1

mants to process his wifo's citlership in Montreal.

I also agreed to look into the matter of transmitting

money to bis mothe: In Cuba at a rate of oxchange

more tavorable than one to one.

Natther S. Dingler

:

hindinis

---

