# 104-10304-10000

## Page 1

1104-10304-10000

7-1-12-79

PERS 241222

AlIx 790112

al!

8 January 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT

: Annual Fitness Report - George Joannides

Operations Officer

08 GS-16

ESN 064818] 23

DOB 5 July 1922

067180743

1. This Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report is prepared

in accordance with HR 20-20, for the period mid-June 1978 through

12 January 1979.

The occasion of the Fitness Report is the

retirement of the rating official.

2. The undersigned was detailed in mid-May to serve

as the Agency's Principal Coordinator for work with the House

Select Committee on Assassinations.

As it became apparent that the volume

of the work required assignment of additional full-time personnel, the

decision was made that one experienced officer was needed to handle

the DDo account.

A senior officer experienced in DDO work and available

expire experienced

to serve for several months was requested.

Mr. Joannides was known to

the undersigned by reputation, although not personally, and arrangements

were made for his detail to the work.

While there is no way to outline

the qualifications that one should have for this sort of work, it

became quickly clear that Mr. Joannides was the perfect man for it.

3. Mr. Joannides was responsible for a new procedure in

recording of exchanges with the HSCA. As it developed, the Agency's

logs and records on the status of requests by the HSCA and the Agency's

responses became the only reliable record; it was clear that the HSCA

often did not know the status of business in this respect and time

and time again had to come to this office for clarification. Beyond

that early contribution to the ordering of the affairs of the office,

Mr. Joannides handled day-to-day follow-ups of requirements by

telephone with the DDO focal point as well as throughout the DDO.

Further, the firm position that he took with the young investigators

in response to aggressive harassment on some occasions was exactly

what the situation called for. A person of his maturity and experience

handled the job exactly as required by the situation.

nature of the work did not call on Mr. Joannides. for all the talents of

required

If the peculiar

his wide experience, it nonetheless was his experience and quick

perceptions that ensured a superior performance. His advice and

⅔c 179

...

---

## Page 2

13-00000

counselling on courses of action to cope with unique situations

was always sound and responsible.

4. The work in this assignment provided little occasion

for Mr. Joannides to demonstrate attitudes on either EEO matters or

economy, considerations that are required by regulation for comment

in Fitness Reports. As a result, no comment is made.

5. Not because of the demands on his superior talents,

but because of the cool efficacy with which he handled an unusual

special assignment, Mr. Joannides' work is evaluated as Outstanding.

i Brechily

S. D. Breckinridge

I certify that I have seen the comments in the Narrative section

of this memorandum.

Loge

Joann ides

8 fin 71

Date

11146

---

## Page 3

13-00000

om

SECRET

(When Filled In)

б.

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION

1. NAME

(Last)

Forge GENERAT

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEX

4. GRADE:

5. $D

7-5-22

M

GS-14

D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops. Officer

8. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

RESERVE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Instructions - Seetion C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

% OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT O, CURRENT STATION

DDP/S.A.S.

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

X

TEMPORARY

INITIA

ANNUA

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specify);

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From to)

1 April 1963 - 31 March 1964

SECTION B

W - Weak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satistactory. A rating in this category requires

positive remedial action.. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing or

probation, to reassignment or to separation. Deserlbe action taken or proposed In Section C.

A - Adequate

Performance meets all requirements. It is entiraly satisfactory and is characterlied neither by deficiency nor

excellence.

P • Proficient

§ - Strong

0 - Outstanding

Performance Is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

Performance Is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

_ist up to six of the most important specifle duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the

manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty.

Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty.

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of employees supervlaed).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Supervises and manages the Station's covert action branch which

R'ATING

LETTER

employst

- start oricers and

_contract employees.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

RATING

LETTER

Serves as senior case officer for a student project which involves

distribution of printed propaganda, production of radio programs;

99

and the development of political action programs:

[s]

SPECIFIC DUTY. NO: 3

Maintains liaison with the FI; CI and PM branch chiefs, in order

GETTER

to insure that the Station's covert action effort is appropriately

supporting the missions of the other branches.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Conducts production and security reviews on the Station's covert

RATING

BETTER

action operations.:

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. $

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING

LET TER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITIONS D' SIT

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per

formance of specifie duties, productivity,

conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits of habits, and

particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period,

place the latter in the rating box ceresponding to the statement which most ascurately peflasts his level of surformance.

8 JUN 19642)

acteded fros

FORM 45

4-62

OSSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

RATING

LETTER

9

9mc

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

ndeas significa senates a euke ad dunsee in our eat position keep gi Per gee rei i agrahim en

State suggestions made for improvement of work performance.

on foreign language competence, it required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section

basis for determining future personnel ection. Manner of performance of managerial or Suporvisory duties must be described, i

gpplicable.

Subject is a hard working, dedicated and effectios afficer who has

proven by performance that he can accomplish assigned operabional tasks

in allowable time limits.

lhe period covereo o

represents Subject's initial Agency exposure to

management responsibilities which are implicit in a branch chief's

assignment in a station that has!

Jemployees. Subject responded

to the challenge of the first echelon supervisory responsibilities

in an exemplary manner.

Subject managed a branch that had a yearly

budget of two million four hundred thousand dollars.

These funds

were judiciously spent on printed propaganda, white and black radio

programs, and on political action operations

which were implemented

via labor, student and professional groups. Subject has the knack of

judiciously blending quality with quantity and in this melding effort,

Subject reflected cost consciousness and effectiveness in the use of

personnel, space equipment, and lunds. subject has a distinct ilaiI

for political action operations and can translate policy directives

into meaningful action programs by all of his assets. Subject has the

ability to delegate authority and to appropriately fix responsibility

with those officers whom he supervises.

Subject's only discernible weakness is a tendency to be abrupt with

subordinates.

It is believed that this minor shortcoming will be

overcome with the acquisition of added experience in the field of

personnel management. On balance therefore, Subject's overall perfor-

mance as a supervisor and as an intelligence officer warrants an 99

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS evaluation of'Strong?"

(CONTINUED)

DATE

15 May 1964

2.

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

UNDER MY SUPERVISION

22 months

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B; AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIONATURE DE EMPLOYEE

/s/t

ur (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal)

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

15 May 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN

Chief of Station, JMWAVE|

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

(signed in pseudo on Fld. Irans.)

3.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Although I have had few chances to personally observe

•work, I concur in the supervisor's comments and

rating due to my general impression of

• capabilities

and performance of duty received in occasional meetings

extending over a number of years.

DATE

.1 June 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Deputy Chief, WH (SA)

SECRET

RED OR PRINTED

BAND SIGNATUR

Cheever

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

CONTINUATION SHEET

*Section C - Narrative Comments

Subject has additional growth potential as an intelligence

officer and as a first echelon supervisor of individuals doing

a basic intelligence task.

Ethnic origins, foreign language

fluency and experience acquired to date generally dictates a

career for Subject in the general arena of Greek operations.

While the major thrust of Subject's career orientation should

be geared toward Greece and its related problems, it is believed

challenge of new horizons will stimulate Subject to develop to

his full capacity. In practical terms, this means that out of

any eight-year time cycle, at least two years should be spent

by Subject on non-Greek or even non-European affairs.

officer has the potential to be a broad-gauged officer but he

must be stimulated and led in that direction which will fully

harness the totality of his potential.

The rating officer would be pleased to have Subject work

Field Station that might be entrusted to

the rating officer®

SECRET

Excladed frca automati:

darnerading and

fi:

2:H0030

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL'NUMBER:

86(06448187

SECTION A

латти

вени

2. DATE OF BIRTH

5 Jul 1922

@S-14

VID

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT & CURRENT STATION

OPS OFF IGER -

DDP/Sodo So

JMWAVE :

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

CAREER

RESERVE

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

XX REASSIENMENT SUPERVISOR

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Inetructiong - Section C)

ANNUAL

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specify): -

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

12. REPORTING PERIOD (Froin- to-)

1 January 1963 - 31 July 1963

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak

A • Adequate

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor

excellence.

P - Proficient

§ - Strong

0 - Outstanding

Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

*SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the

manner in which employee performs EACH specifie duty.

Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty.

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees superviaed).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.!

RATING

LETTER

Deputy Chief of Branch handling (in absence of Chief) all aspects

of politicalzaction and psychological warfare activity and

[case officers and clerical personnel.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

.60

RATING

LETTER

Case officer for student project involving political action,

propaganda, intelligence collection and a hemisphere-wide apparatus.

(S]

SPECIFIC DUTY.NO. 3

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

BATIN

F9F

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

POSTED ON

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING

LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

lake into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per

particular limitations of talents.

lace the letter in the ratin

7061 1J0

during

the rating perlod

ox corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

FORM 45

$ 82

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

downloadies cond

RATING

LETTER

[7

6/mc

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

dial performance State suggestion mode dor improven in ou wor perimene ng Ve proom mendattons for tiring imen

State suggestions made for improvement of work performance.

on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best

basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if

applicable.

Reference is made to paragraph C of subject's previous fitness report

dated 10 January 1963 which is still applicable. During the period

covered by this report subject has done an excellent job in the handling

of a significant student exile group which hitherto had successfully

resisted any important degree of control. Under subject's direction

an exile teachers' group reached a high level of effectiveness in the

propaganda field and was turned over to another case officer.

Subject has effectively terminated unproductive operations in the prop

field (one magazine and a news letter) and is building up Station radio

capability directed at the maintarget

His high professional standards, complete comprehension of the problems

faced by the Station and strong urge to win in our struggle with the

opposition make it a distinct pleasure to see him

take over as Chief

of the PW branch.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

/ CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C.OF THIS REPORT

DATE

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

JUL 3 1 1963

/s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed in pseudo on Flil. Iranamittal)

2.

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS

EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

UNDER

MY

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

SUPERVISION.

15 months

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

31 July 1963

Chief, PW

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD

(eigned in pseudo on Fid. Trang.

3.

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFicIAL - The Reviewing Officer is familiar with Subject's

work based primarily on discussions with Subject and Subject's supervisor,

general observation of Subject during the past year and frequently review

Subject is an extremely hard working, dedicated

individual with an ability to develop rapport quickly with his contacts.

Subject works long hours including weekends without complaining and is

always available when there is a job to be done.

Subject has demonstra-

ted those qualities of management, initiative, drive and devotion to

duty that are necessary to perform the many and varied tasks of a fast

and continually changing situation.

The Reviewing Officer concurs with

Rating Officer's overall evaluation of Strong 99

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

YPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

SEP 2 4 1963

/s/ Frederick J. INGHURST

Deputy Chief of Station

(signod in pseudo on Fldo Trans.)

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

(When Filled In).

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work pertormance. '

on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or exploin ratings given in Section B to provide best

basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if

applicable.

No change from previous

report submitted 19 January 1963.

SECTION D

1.

DATE

27 March 63

2na

MONTHS

EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

UNDER MY SUPERVISION

12

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYÉE

/s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed on Field Transmittal)

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION.

DATE

27 March 63

3.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Chief, PW Branch

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD

(signed on Fiold Iransmittal)

.. 1:

DATE

2 April 1963

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SECRET

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN

(aigned on Field Transmittal

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

• (When Filled In)

P988345.

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL 'NUMBER

00

09717(064818

SECTION A

1. NAME

Joannides, Lease

(Laa

(First)

E.

(Middle)

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH

8. SEX

4.

GRADE

5 July 1922

Male 94

ES-14]

5. SD

'D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

RESERVE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See inetructione - Sectlon C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

%. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT & CURRENT STATION

DDP/S.A.S.

JMNAVE

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

ANNUAL

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REAssIGnMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specity):

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From ton)

_ January

1963 - 31 March 1963

SECTION B

W - Weak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satistactory. A rating in this category requires

positive remedial action. The hature of the action could range from counseling, to further training. to placing on

probation, to reassignment or to separation.

Describe action taken or proposed in Section C..

A - Adequate

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor

excellence.

P - Proficient

S - Strong

0 - Outstanding

Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is charocterized by exceptional proficiency.

Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating perlod. Insert rating letter which best describes the

manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty.

Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty.

All employees

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees aupervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

BATTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Annual

OnS

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

tness

current.

January

report

Levening

10

BATING

IT H

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. €

BATINR

RATIN

ETTE

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take Into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per

formance of specifie

Juties productivity conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal tolts or habits, an

your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period

place the letter in the rating box coresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

-16 ДР 1963

FORM 45 OBSO YE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

Excteded fros

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A Joannideo,

EMPLOdEE SERIM. NUMBER

004848

091747

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEX

5 July 1922:

Male

99

4. GRADE

5. SD

(GS-14]

D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

0: CHECK (x) TYPÉ OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

PRESERVE

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Instructions • Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

7. OFF/DIV/ER OF ASSIGNMENT

B. CURRENT STATION

DDP/SeAS.

I'NAVE

T0. CHECK () TYPE OF REPORT

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

ANNUAL

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specify):

12: RÉPORTING PERIOO (From. to-)

1 January 1962 - 31 December 1962

SECTION B

W - Wook

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance ranges from wholly inodequate to slightly less than satistactory. A rating in this category requires

positive remedial action. The bature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to plecing on

probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed In Section C.

A - Adequate

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and Is. characterized neither by deficiency nor

excellence.

P - Proficient:

Performance is more than sotisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

0 - Outstanding

Performance Is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of

others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating paried, Insert rating letter which best dis emplayths

Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty.

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATINC

LET TEE

Deputy Chief of Branch handling (in absence of Chief) all aspects

political action and psychological warfare and

supervising

case officers and clerical personnel.

24

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

RATIN

Case Officer for student project involving political action,

propaganda, intelligence collection and hemisphere-wide

apparatus.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Case Officer for teacher's organization engaged in hemisphere-

wide press and radio propaganda.

RATING

LET TER

(s)

SPECIFIC DUTY. NO. A

Case Officer on project producing news letter aimed at press

outlets in Latin America..

LETTER

(S]

SPECIFIC DUTY.NO.5

Maintains contacts with key elements of a veteran's type

organization as a developmental project.

RATING

LETTER

($7

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

POOTER GN

ATIN

ETTE

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

lake into account everything about the employee which intluences his etfectiveness in his current position such as per

formance of specifie.

dutles, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, anc

particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during

the rating perlod,

place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

FORM 45

4-62

Endudlad frown

ObSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

RATING

LETTER

(5) 99

9/mc

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to

overall performance.

State suggestions made for improvement of work performance.

Give recommendations for training.

Comment

on foreign language competence, if required for current position.

Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best

basis for determining future personnel action.. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if

appliceblesubject's strengths lie in his ability to analyze a problem quickly

and skillfully, to strip it of unnecessary detail and to render a

He has contributed greatly to the

efficiency of the Branch by eliminating unproductive ventures, counseling

the members and promoting the principles of correct tradecraft. He has

been successful in resolving complicated problems involving control of

an unruly group. He has a strong personality and firm convictions about

the proper manner of carrying on covert operations and voices his

convictions without

He is an excellent supérvisor and is respected

by the members of the branch for his forthrightness and his sober

judgment and sound advice.

His handling of agents and contacts on the

outside both directly and indirectly mixes to a proper extent firmness

and friendliness.

In short he is a distinct asset to the clandestine

services both administratively and operationally.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

19 JAN 63

/s/ Walter D, NENBY (signed on Field Transmittal)

• BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

UNDER MY SUPERVISION

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

10 months

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TY Robert R. WROUCHAND NATURE

19 JAN 63

Chief/PW - JMWAVE

(signed on Field Transmittal)

3.

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Subject is an unusually competent officer in the

field of covert action operations in that'he blends a flair for this:

activity with sound tradecraft principles and a firm adherence to valid

reporting techniques.

Subject is dedicated and hard working and he has

proven by performance that he is willing to work long hours in order to

accomplish his operational objectives.

Subject's overall performance

warrants an evaluation of "strong"M Subject has growth potential both as

an intelligence officer and as a first echelon supervisor of individuals

doing a basic intelligence task. Subject's activities come to the

attention of the reviewing officer on a weekly basis:

DATE

FEB 1 5 1963

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN

(signed on Field Transmittal)

SECRET

Home

---

