# 104-10220-10014

## Page 1

104-10220-10014

2

PROMISING ACTION

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chaos, Europenn Division

INºO.

Chief of Stntlord

Chlot of Ba8o,l

-MITÖRDER

Operationnl

ACTION RIQUIRED -REVERINCIS

Rocont Newspper Artiole Concerning Richard CaBo NAGELi

NAPRID BUR MARIS

40 INDIRIBE MOMEIO

ONIY QUASIEND DELE

CAN WUGE SACH WAC

no cage panga, a 200 weathe

Refrence!

Action required: FYI,

1071, 10 October 1968

1084806 1008 cr

Forwardod as an attachnont horeto is an article

which appenrod in the

"Ovorsong Family" on 20 June 1969,

wriceon by thomas e, bucer mbout Richard Case NAGEll Subject

of Retoronce.

2.

Accordin to the niticle NAGELL asserts that in

August 1962 he was

omployod by the CIA.

llo further claims

that the U.S, Governmont ta forcibly keoping him separated

from his fantly, a wife and two childron.

The story makes

roferonce to his rocent rulouse from an Enst German prison,

as reportod In Roforence, and states that the following gersone

were the ongo of characters Involved at the timo of his release!

Andor KLAX, Chief of the Enstorn Affairg. Soction of the U.S.

#salon Berling Wolfgang VOGeL, well known East Beriln attorney;

Chief of the

RIODY S. NEW US. BOrIAn HASIOn PubLiC SAlotY Section to,

D,C, attorney; Bruce A. FLATINg

NAGELL asserte

1s "n' long-tine CIA member and FLATIN 1e

his real names?

a doctor, Major George Raymond BABINEAU, &

psychiatrist at the U.S. Army Hospital In Berlin; and an

unidentifled man®

(Continued)

APPROVED: Pleonarte

Fordinand 3. Womack

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Attachment!

Newspaper artiele - a/s h/w

Distributlong

L - Chlot, EUR w/att a/s b/w (1 copy)

2 - COS.

w/o/att CS COPY.

DISPAICH SYABOL AND NUMBER

D 200-120-102

EGBA-

S3312

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

BoRde 5N 8681109

201-776537

DATE JUL: 3:969

2 July 1969

(MOS MIE MUNGIR

007778808

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

_SECRET

I Do Honorto Att 491509988

SOM- F112

3.

The articlo does

not unke clear whother or not

NAGELL

da back In Germany at the momont,

nor do we have nny

Information rogardin: hia present whereabouts, other tian

the sintomont in the article that he 18 probnbly now in the

Unitod States.

Bubsequent to hls retense from

tactod the Public Saloty Office where he complained about

not boing able to locate his childien.

Bago traces on the author of

Since tho article appenre to

Thomas C.. LUCEY,

officials of the govornment we

would appreciate rocolving

any traces which lioadquarters or thel

may have.

Winfeld a. Calmi

Wintiold A. CALVIN

C8 C.Pa.

CLASSASCATIN

SBCRET

100"330

100

6428

UNI FIRVIOUBROITION

:201.746537

701-777778

CONTINUAC

---

