# 104-10052-10107

## Page 1

104-10052-10707

SECRET

wwr 2=113.

8

JAN 250

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief of Operations, DD/P

SUBJECT

: Project LIEMPTY (Renewal)

•WH - Mexico

The attached project, originating in WH Division, is

presented for renewal for the period 1 December 1959 through

31 November 1960.

The project provides for physical and photo-

graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of

other Mexico City operations, particularly those targetted at

Soviet personnel and installations.

Authority

1s requested to obligate $94,910 from the

DD/P-WH Division operating budget:

$49,495 for

1950 and. $36,425 for fiscal 1961, subject to the availability

of funds.

sums include $61,910 compensation for five

contract agents (three

of whom serve as principal agents for

segments

of the project,

and sixteen support agents;

for vehicle maintenance

and commercial carrier travel; $7,500

for operational equipment; $5,000 for maintenance of

safehouses;

$2,000 for

additional sarehouse,

vehicle rental; $1,000 exchange commodities;

contracts, etc.;

and $2,000 for the purchase of

information, documents, payment of bribes, etc.

and

3.

The attached renewal request, prepared

in the Division

supported by

a project review prepared in the field, reviewe

the activitias of the projoct during the past year and present

a detailed

breaidown of the funds requested. The project

operates

in three

segments:

(a) Contract agent Oliver G.

SCANILING is an

independent assat who is used to follow-up

and

explalt operational Information on target personnel and installa-

tions, to case various installations of interest, acquire pro-

perty,

etc.; (b) a photographic surveillance team, under prin-

cipal

agent

ments

and

Raymond H. GERENDE, utilizing three houses or apart-

one

photo

truck; and

e a phusical surveillance tear

under

principal

agent Simon D.

CLACKETT, consisting of three

trained members

at the present time.

The attached renewal

request reviews

the activities and accomplishments of the pro-

ject

in

terms

of these

three

segments

and in relation. to pro-

ject objectives.

SCANTLING'S contribution to the collection

of operational information pertaining to Soviet personnel and

installations ia regarded by the Station as unique.

He also

02835

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKET

trained CLACKETT in radio controlled

mobile surveillance.

SCANTLING also has rendered valuable

support to the LITACIT

operation having gained entry to the target under a fabri-

cated cover.

He has

also cased and prepared reports on the

ITIABBY target in preparation for future operations and per-

formed investigations of numerous other Station targets

of

opportunity.

He investigated many

leads from other audio

surveillance operations enabling the Station to maintain

current

data

on various Soviet contacts and resulting in a

recruitment attempt which,

while unsuccessful, is believed

to indicate future potential along this line.

He has fur-

ther been used to develop radio procedures for the mobile

teams and to rent various properties in support of other

Station operations.

The. GERENDE segment, using three base

houses for photography, produced upwards

of 12,000 photo-

graphs during the

year.

One base has recently begun taking

motion pictures of Soviet personnel in the course

of conver

sation which have been

forwarded to FI/D for possible exploita-

tion by lip reading analysis.

This segment also operates the

mobile radio surveillance vehicles.

A mobile photography. sur

veillance truck has been used during the project year for

coverage of various Station targets which do not warrant the

establishment of permanent photographic bases. GERENDE has

also served to rent post oilice boxes, hotel rooms, ete., in

support of other Station operations.

During the past oroject

jear CLACKETT, Who returned to Mexico in early April 1959

after Headquarters training, spent the following two months.

being trained by SCANTLING in mobile surveillance techniques.

He then undertook training of a four member team which was

judged ready

for operational use toward the end of the project

year.

Two additional contract agents,

Wilma J. FIORDALISI

and

Louise J. MACRINO, performed translation and

support functions.

4.

Appropriate staff conponents concur in recommending

renewal.

(a) of state notes that the CI value of the project

1s difrioult to judge since it appears that much of the

project should

lance

team enters into

the CLACKaTE survell-

active. operation.

GI Staff sug-

gests that

the Station

be queried as to

the pretext or

circumstances under which SCANTLING frequently visits

Inez Parada de Moreno, the occupant

adjacent to the soviet

that allatan the property

SEORET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

(b)

PI/OPS notes that while

the project review

pre-

sents a

clear

picture of the

aims

and objectives

of the

various

segments, it does not provide, except in the

case

of SCANTLING, detailed indication

of

the value or

usefulness of the other segments, particularly the photo-

sraphic activity.

FI/OPS requests that the Station pro-

vide such an appraisal during the first quarter or 1960.

FI/OPS recommends strongly that the photo coverage be

reviewed from the standpoint of value and usefulness with

a view to determining whether the LILYRIC activity could

covere come enemore selective date thou e

coverage conducted on a more selective baste/ops notes

materially affecting overall usefulness."

that, in the absence of further proof of usefulness, the

color photography and noving pictures appear to be

an

unnecessary

Luxury.

FI/OPS commends the careful handling

of the CLACKETT segment and requests that the next project

action include examples

of the team's progress.

I recommend renewal of Project LIEMPTY as

with

attention to the stafl comments In paragrapa 4 absented

Approved:

COP-DD /2

Chief

Foreign Intelligence

JAM & 30

Dave

Attachment:

Project Outline LINDTY

Stair Cooraination:

For C/ FI/OPS

For

CI

Staff -s/R.1

BrOwn

FOr C/CCD

-s/F. Youngblood

SECRET

---

