# 104-10125-10187

## Page 1

104-10125-10187

SECRET

fm.:

Extracted from "The New jeft: Road x.

'Anarchy", FRi

December 1967

the morg than 200, 000 who took part in the massive civil

"monstration In Washington In/Aurust, 1963--1t 19

* that support was sal! iitod and Kecolund from

ciety of organizations ranging from old ostablished

paciilst groups /to organizations which have publicly vowed

cheir allegiance to

the international communist movement.

This gemonstration marked the firm establishit o1

another plank in the'lnew left platform--the "antiwar

movement."

Black Power Concept

As the university reform and antiwar movements

gained momentum, new left influence in the civil rights

movement began to wane.

The passage of the Civil Rights

Act of 1964 had encouraged responsible civil rights leaders

to look increasingly to the law for redress of their gricvances,

and by the end of 1965, there mus a diminution of the

tactics

which had characterized the early days of the civil rights

struggle.

This new stance assumed by the "civil rights leaders

was totally incompatible with the militant

new lett..

at philosophy of the

Theperiod of relative tranquility in the civil

rights movement came to an abrupt end in May, 1966, when

The SNCC was considered by now leftists to be the counterpart

of the SDS in the civil rights struggle.

Following Carmichael's election,

a strong resolution

was passed it the' SDS Naiional Council meeting in June, 1966,

which

made

reference to the long-standing fraternal rclations

between

the SDS and the SNCC and fully endorsed the philosophy

of black power.

The resolution stated, in part:

"Let it be

clear that we are not merely supporting SNCC's right to its

views, we are welcoming and supporting the thrust of SNCC'S

program, and expect to continue our joint work."

Thus, it

was cleai that the introduction of the principle of black power

had served to overcome a temporary setback experienced by the

new left

in the civil rights campaign..

In May, 1967, when H. Rap Brown* became SNCC National

Chairman, Carmichael went abroad to solicit support for the SNCC

*Sco Appendix.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 5/8/9Y

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL (NAR)

SECRET

---

## Page 2

¡ SECRET

and black nationalism, especially from so-called third world

countrles such as syria, Egypt, Algeria, Guinea and Tanzania.

Carmichael also visited Cuba, North Vietnam, Sweden, Norway,

Denmark, and France before returning to the United

States on

Decomber 11, 1967. in :

While In Cuba in late July, Carmichael was honored st

a dinner given by Fidel Castro who described him as the "repre

sentative of the

Negro people of the United States."

In an

hour-long harangue in Havana on August 1, Carmichael compared

the Negro revolt in America to the Cuban revolution and exhorted

American Negroes to take up arms and fight for their freedom.

In Paris, France, on Dacember 7, 1967, Carmichael told

3,000 persons that

ho would like to see America

lose the Viotnnm

Standing before i huge poitrait of the dead Latin American

revolutionary Ernesto "Che" Guevara, he declared that "black

paople have always been cannon fodder for"the wars of impertaltsm."

He ürged young American Negroes to "devélop a resistance movement

that will disrupt the entire Urted States."

The SDS has expressed its support of other oxtremist

organizations such as the Revolutionary Action Movement (RAM).

RAM is a militant all-Negro organization which advocatas urban

guerrilla warfare as a means of overthrowing the United States

Government and replacing it with & Chinese communist-oriented

society. At the SDS National Convention in June, 1967, a

resolution was adopted to the effect that the SDS would defend

and give aid to members of the SNCC and RAM win wero arrested.

Merger of Antivar and Civil Rights Movements

One of the most ambitious endeavors of the new left

to date-which has been given high priority by leaders of both

the new left and the communist left--has been an all-out effort

to unite the antiwar movement with the civil rights struggle.

The claim is made that the war in Vietnam is diverting attention

from civil rights and is consuming funds that might othermise be

expended

for the war on poverty in the Negro ghettos of

The Vietnam var is denounced as a "racist war" in a

constant barrage of proraganda emanating from such organizations

as the SNCC and the SDS as well as from communist sources.

Negroes

are urged to unite with their "Vietranese brothers" in the struggle

8

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

against the "U.S. imporialists" and to refuse to serve in the

Armed Forces.

."......

The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, * recognized

creator of the so-called "non-violent resistance" tactics utilized

so effectively in the early days of the civil rights struggle, has

for the past

two years injected himself into the Vietnam war lasue

and has given much

stimulus to the efforts of the ner left to

bring about a

morger of the civil rights novement with the antiwar

movemont.

It 1s significant that King's position on Vietnam has

boen carefully plotted by several of his close advisors who are

dedicated' communists with concoalod affiliationg. As a matter of

fact, one af these communist advisors wrote the speech which King

delivered op April 15, 1967, at the rally of the Spring Mobiliza-

tion Committee to End

the War in Vietnam held In New York City In

which ha viclously renounced Unitod States policy in Vietnam.

continue to prove the pets or to no role t end deco

constant change in the emphasie placed on the varlous aspects of

these issues.

Just as the main thrust of the new left In civil

rights

Is now focused on the philosophy of blick porcr, tha

current

emphasis of now left activities in the antirar movement has 1n

recent months contered around rosistance to the draft.

Her Left

adherents who are active in the university reform movehent have ..

selected college administrators as their curront targets and are

demanding that the administration of the univorsitios be turned

ovor completely to the students.

Conmunity Action and "Furtictpatory Democracy"

- The new loft has no real, positiveldeology for bringing

about fundamental changes in the political, econonto, and social

system in this country.

Instead, it has assumed a righteous and

intransigent moral posture which rejects the American system but

offers no program or alternatives.

Since the new left has not

developed specific goals ind a detailed program, it has been

challenged to produca an alternative ideolory and theory of

action.

The main response to this challenge has been the develoy

ment of the concept of cormunity action and "participatory'

denocracy."

This theory of action, in practico, is to organizo

*See Appendix.

= 9-

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

REVEREND

JAMES LUTHER BEVEL

The be the 1a Hose too 0, 270 13 20 1362.

He is currently employed as a staff member of the Urban

Training Center for Christian Missions in Chicago.

In the Spring of 1967; Bevel was released by the

Reverend Martin Luther King's Southern Christian Leadership

Conference to become National Director of the Spring Hobilization

Committee to End-the War in Vietnam.

Bevel has vigorously

protested United States policy in Vietnam and has called

President Johnson a murderer.

He has also stated, "Te here

will decide what the Government mall be when we take over."

44

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

H.

RAP BROWN

Brown, a Negro, was boin October A, 1943, in

Baton Rouge, Loulsiana, Re Hubert Geroid Brown.

He 18

reported to have attended Southern University in Baton

Rouge but left before graduation and becama involved in

civil rights activitles in Mississippi and Alabama.

A member of thé SNCC since 1963, Brown succeeded

Stokely Carmichael as National Chairman in May, 1967.

Since becoming National Chairnan, Brown has followed

Carmichael's example by traveling throughout the United

States making speeches condemning American policy toward

Vietnam, assailing the white nan,

and calling for

"rebellion by any means" and for

"nassive civil disobedience."

Ile has encouraged Negroes to buy firearms and ammunition.

The State of Maryland Losued a warrant for Brown's

arrest on a charge of inciting a rot and inciting to

commit argon as a result of an inflammatory speech he made

i Cambridge, Maryland, on, July 24, 1967.

He was subsequently

arrested in Aloxandria, Virginia, and s

currently.on bond

appealing extradition to liaryland. Under the conditiong f

his bond, Brown is prohibited.from traveling to nake speoches

and is restricted to southern New York In the custody of his

attorney.

Cn August 19, 1407, Brown was arrested in New

York City on a Federal

charge of transporting a weapon in

Interstate commerce (New York City to New Orlenns and return

by commercial airliner) while undor indictment for a

folony.

He was released on $15,000 bond.

45 -

SECrET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

STOKELY CARMICHAEL

Carmichael, a Negro, was born June 29, 1941, in

Triniird,

West Indles, and gained derivative United States

citide iship through his father's naturalization. He

Kraduated

from Howard University in Washington, D.C., In

June, 1961, with a degree in philosophy.

Shortly after, being elected National Chairman

of the SNCE in 1966, he transformed this organization from

a clvil rights group to a revolutionary black nationalist

He popularized the slogan of "black power"

clan, do Catmichaol, signifies "bringing this country to

its knees" and using

"any force recessary" to obtain Negro

goals.

He maintains that

"violence. is Inevitable in this

struggle for Negro liberation," and he urges Negroes in the

United States to prepare

for a l'bloody fevolution."

In his public appeärances, Carmichael has

vociferously and bitterly condemned

the war in Vietnam as

an "Illegal, immoral" war béing "fought for racist reasons."

He claims the only way to stop the war is for young Americang

to say

"to hell with the draft."

Since being replaced by H. Rap Brown as SNCC

National Chairman In May, 1967, Carmichael has traveled

extensively throughout the world trying to solicit support for

the SNCC and the black ictionalist novement in the United States.

Carmichael was an observer at the conference of the

Latin American Solidarity Organization (LASO) in lavana, Cuba,

In July-August, 1967.

The LASO promotes revolution in Latin

America through guerrilla warfare.

in October, 1967, Carnichael Bald he dideot kaor septas

a communist

my political

philosophy is influenced by the

Chinese and Cuban rovolutiong."

Just prior to his return to the United States in

December, 1967, Carmichael spoke before an audience of 3,000

in Paris, France, where he reportedly shouted "ic do not

want

peace, we want the Vietnamese to defeat the United States."

- 17-

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

REVEREND DR.

MARTIN LUTHER KING

King, a Negro, was born January 15, 1929, in

Atlanta, Georgia. Hei recelved an A.B. degree fron Horehouse

College In Atlanta, Goorgia, in 1918; a B.D. degroe iron

Crozer Theological Seminary In Chester, Pennsylvanta, in

1951; and a Ph.D. degree from Boston Univeratty In 1955.

In 1957, King: founded the Southern Christlan

Leadership Conference with himself ss President, a position

be still holds.

In his rise to national prominence since he

headed the Montgomery, Alabama, bus boycott in 1956, King

has been closely allied with cornunists.

He has shown not

only a willingness but even an eagerness to accopt communist

aid, to support communist causess to confer with high

ranking communist functionaries

and to'rely heavily upon

the advice and

direction of dedicated communists with

concealed affiliations.

King is regarded in communjst circles

as a genuine Marxist-Leninist who is following the harrixt

Leninist line.

Over a pertod of time, he has been guided

into advocating a procommunist position on the war in

Viotnam. Specifically,.

King seeks to create opposition to .

that war and thereby

Influence the United States Government

to withdiaw.its troops fron Vietnam.

In the past year, King has becone an open crttic

of the Vietnam war and was

the keynote speaker at the rally

held in New York City on April 15, 1967, under the sponsorship

of the Spring Mobilization Committee to End the War in

Vietnam.

King was awarded the Nobel Prize for peace in

1964 and has traveled abroad on several occasions.

Ic has

to Europo and perhaps

Publicly announced that he will trave future in pursult of

tho soviet Union sometime in the near

"peace" in Vietnam.

-. 54

SECRET

---

