# 104-10186-10142

## Page 1

104-10186-10142

4/00

i MATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Be matertai containe irformallon an los tse Kalhani Refrom of the vulted flates within the leaning de the keptreate laTE Tile

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FORFIGN DISSE

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Funds for Resolutionary Activities DATE DiSTR.

from the Direccion General de

Inteligencia

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/02305-65

7 June 1965

2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Repreduce

DATE OF

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D.

C.

DATE ACQ. (February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

•ÍMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMÁTION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVZ APPRAISAl OF CONTENT IS TENTATTYE.

SOURCE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cubar Irtelligence

Service until April 1964.

The Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI)

does not make any regular payments to revo-

lutionary groups but pays them only when they have subaitzed a

plan for revolutionary action (armid struggle) ard have had it

approved in Havana.

Trerefore,

chore is no standard arount paid

to any one group or dishursed in any one country pur month or

year, and if no armed struggle is in progress or beirg planned,

no money is given out.

Funds expended in Latin Ameriea on the

above basis

include

the following:

Guatemala

: During 1963, the DGI paid out about l.S.

$250,000.

The Yon Sosa group got

about

$200,000

in onever for its activities

(included in the $250,000) .

k1 Salvador

:

In August-Septenber 1963, when the Salradoran

revolutionaries

for arred struggle,

they received ul.S. $50,000.

They used the funds

however, and were

nore because they had, in DGI terms, nisused

Nicaragua

:

Durine 1963 the DGI disbursed some U.S. $15,000.

In addition, the professor, who was one of

liaison officers in Mexico,

won a suit for some

damage from a company (perhaps Pan American

Airlines) ard was awarded U.S. $30.000.

which he turned over to the guerrillas he

represented.

3

2

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN

DISSEX

2

1

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLINT

CINCSO =

(Moie: Field distribusion indicated by "#")

I NAVY

IaN'S

NSA

OCR

FBI

2

IN CORMATION REPO RIA

ПIС7CА

1 1E/25/9

HICT LIA

ANC/NO

TWE

THC/RE

NIC/OS

INC WAVE

11

RID IN

TOTAL WHC WF. WF. 1 CI CIA,

RID.1

INFORMATION REPORT

3. IE

L HASH

11-2345

SP (AUVLG-1)

CSCI-316 02305

jeo0-801947176

BRAISON

30: 1D:0

CI

---

## Page 2

5-F-4-R-1-1

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

= 2 =

CSCI-316/02305-65

Costa Rica

Honduras

Panama

Venezuela

The DO! gave almost nothing to Costa Rica

becausr there was no revoluttonary activity.

The DGI gave Honduran revolutionaries a little

more than to the Costa Ricans because after

the disturbance in late 1963 there was almost

no revolutionary action, mos: of the

guerrillas were in exile, and there

considerable probion caused by the tendency

of guerrilla agents trained in Cuba to split

off from the Party and make their own way.

Before August 1963, the DGI had given the

Vangardia

de Accion Nacional (VAN)

some

u.s. s.$30,000.

When the Departamento de

Liberacion Naclonal (National Llberation

Department - LN) and the Illegal Department

of the DCI separated 1a D-cember 1963

shey had previously been combined in one

vA /Irtelligence) Section), the VAN opera

tions were trarsferred exclusively to the

Illegal Department.

wers returned to the l Department.

sums of money were expended during the

period of exclusive Illegal Department

control are not known.

Between 1960 and 1964, the DEl put out more

than U.s. $1,000,000 for revolutionary

activitieg in Venezucla, in addition to an

unknown amount of arms supplied from Cuba.

Moreover, one of the best Cuban guerrilla

Major Abelardo COLose Ibarra,

went to Venezuela in 1962 and was still the

director of operations in 1964.

If COLOME

returned to Cuba after April 1964, when he

was known to be there, he was probably only

back temporarily to collect more money.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREiGN

DISSEY

so I

---

