# 104-10234-10153

## Page 1

104-10234-10153

Áves E1.o

TO PILE NO. 221-25% 234 CLASSIFIE HESSAGE E TOTAL COPIES

TO FILE nD.

MOLE BIOLE DET. TO,BRANGE C

23/M SECRET

Tested Osie.

ACTION

DO WHICZ

E3 RID COPY

.. FLE, UR. Z, C/CI

ADVANCE COPY

Cossure

potents

24-1

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

UNIT

TiME

X-:

SECRET 142305Z

DIR WAVE CIT

5627

(DITZION ACTING)

TYPIC AMROD

REF .

2401 (174489)

15466574776

DISSEMPER WHK.2

ON 6 MARCH ERYTHROID-12 TOLD STAFF AGENT ANGUS J•

LAVERDURE THAT CLOSE FRIEND OF HIS WAS INTIMATE OF ROLANDO

CUBELAS AND WAS GIVING HIM INFORMATION ABOUT THE CUBELA S

AFFAIR BEING A KUBARK OPERATION WHICH HE WAS POSITIVE HAD

BEEN PENETRATED BY CASTRO. FRIEND TURNED OUT TO BE MIGUEL

DE LEON, CUBAN EXILE RESIDING MANA. LAVERDURE DID NOT

PRESS E-12 FOR INFO SINCE UNFAMILIAR WITH KUBARK INTEREST.

2 ON. 8 MARCH MANA NEWSPAPER LA PRENSA PUBLISHED

INTERVIEW WITH LEON AND QUOTED HIM AS SAYING FIDEL CASTRO

MAKING SAME ERROR VITH CUBE LAS AS KE DID WITH CAMILO

CIENFUEGOS AND CHE GUEVARA. E-12 PLANNED INTERVIEW WITH

LEON 9 MARCH AND INVITED LAVERDURE TO LISTEN WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE RICARY

* not incexed

field dief not raust incexing

doses not meet Has entence

(w? 1 000111111

AIM 20270160144

201-252234

15 Man 66

to this. e

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

OF LEON. LAVERDURE MONITORED INTERVIEW FROM ADJOINING OFFICE

WITH SOE DIFFICULTY. LEON SPOXE GENERALITIES CONCERNING

CUBAN OPERATIONS. CONCERNING CUBELAS HE TULD E-12 THAT IT

WAS A KUBARK OPERATION AND THAT CUBELAS HAD BEEN TRAINED IN

PARIS® LEON MENTIONED KENNEDY FAMILY INTEREST IN THE AFFAIR.

HE MAINTAINED THAT HE POSITIVE THAT XUBARK OPERATION WAS

PENETRATED, MENTIONED AMBIDDY-1 AS ONE OF THE PRINCIPALS

AND REFERRED TO HIM AS BOY SCOUT. NAMES MENTIONED DURING

ONE HOUR CONVERSATION VERE (ALL PHONETIC) JUAN PALAYES TERAN,

FNU GALLARETA, CARLOS PEDRAZA, JUSTO RODRIGUEZ, LUIS PEREZ

AND ANTONIO CARILLO. ALSO NAMED IDENTITY A AS COS

AND

iDENTITY B AS DUBARK STAFFER.

3. WHEN LEON LEFT E-12 OFFICE E-12 SAID LEON VERY

DEDICATED TO CUBAN CAUSE BUT HAS COMPULSION TO TALK TO SOMEONE.

CLAIMS LEON HAS BEEN INVOLVED MANY EXILE ACTIVITIES AND HAS

WORKED INDIRECTLY FOR KUBARX. E-12 ALSO SAID LEON HAS SPENT

30,000 DOLLARS OF PERSONAL FUNDS FIGHTING CASTRO•

4o DURING INTERVIEW LAVERDURE GOT IMPRESSION THAT LEON

MIGHT HAVE KNOWN SOMEONE FCAM KUBARK WAS LISTENING SINCE HIS

VOICE VERY LOUD AND SPOKE AS IF MAKING SPEECH RATHER THAN

REVEALING SECRETS TO CLOSE FRIEND. IT POSSIBLE E-12, WHO

ANXIOUS TO IDENTIFY VITH KUBARK, MAY HAVE SET UP INTERVIEW

.*..TO GIVE LEON OPPORTUNITY TO VOICE HIS FEELINGS. THIS POSSIBILITY

-REINFORCED BY FACT THAT THIS WAS SECOND SUCH TALY BETWEEN E- 12

AND LEON IN THREE DAYS. IF LEON INVOLVED XUBARX OPERATIONS

AND IS SECURITY RISK OR IF HIS DETAILED DEBRIEFING OF INTEREST

SECRET

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSÁGE

SECRET

iN 71

= PAGEZ!

HOS, PLEASE NOTIFY. LEON REMAINS ACCESSIBLE THROUGH E- 12 AND

POSSIELY DIRECTLY IF DESIRED•

SECRET

CFN 5627 DITZION 6 ERYTHROID-12 ANGUS S• LAVERDURE ROLANDO CUBILAS

CASTRO MIGUEL DE LEON E-12 8 LA PRENSA FIDEL CASTRO CANILO CIENFUEGOS

CHE GUEVARA 9 CUBAN PARIS. KENNEDY AYBIDDY-! JUAN PALAYES TERAN FNU

GALLARETA CARLOS PEDRAZA JUSTO RODRIGUEZ LUIS PEREZ ANTONIO CARRILLO

A COS

8 30 ,020 HAS

BT

PV0.22

SECRET

333 -a

---

## Page 4

CLASBIDY TO FILE NO. 201-252231 CELSSIFIED NESSABE

#-HEE TO POLE NO.

PIRE RIDD

HIT. TO BRANCH D

231

SECRET

BASTROY Dare.

PERSON/IT MOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

BET 108

Tro DC WHIC 3

FILE JUR, C/WHZ

I RID COPY

C.

COPY

8A898X

UN IT

7 1 ang

<BL88Y88

15113)

1.

SECRET 142305Z

DIR WAVE CILE

REF:

75627(1974776)

IDENTITY A IS FNU MILLIAMSE S

IDENTITY B IS JOAQUIN FOWLER•

SECRET

CFN 5628 5627 A FNU WILLIAMS B JOAQUIN FOWLER •

ET

SECRET

DISTEN PER WHIC +Z

15 Ma 66371772

DEST

ABSTRACT

MD 19!8.

MD159T

?

1:2:501

201-252234

15 Man 66

---

