# 104-10192-10248

## Page 1

104-10192-10248

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107. Note)

NW 53217 6/20/17

57

ANOC

TO

rose no.

ASSIFY

DATE 13 APR 63

31451

TO

DIRECTOR

'CASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Prior

FROM

UMWAVE

ACTION IN (TEMPO ISSUED IW AT 1938 13 APR OM)

DCI, O/DCI, DOP,

SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP,

r/INT 6,

SAS 12, UN 5, 00/1, AD/CI 22.

19: 190-22

16 5002

APR 14 @$26A 63

: C:

PRIORITY

IN 17636

ToCs DB-3/654,186

& PRITY DIR INFO BARR LANT PACY CITE WAVE 7128

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMRAZZ-1 ON 13 APRIL (PARAS i-6). AMOT-119 DD-12 OF 5

APR RECD RPTS 12 APR. FROM VECIANA (PARAS 7-9).

FIELD 1322477

REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

R SUBJ: !. UNIFICATION OF THE MRP WITH THE ALPHA 66 AND SECUNDO

FRENTE NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY

2. POSSIBLE ACTION IN CUBA BY ALPHA 6E AND SECUNDO FRENTE

D01: 4-13 APR. 63

PADA: U.S. 5 AND 13 APRIL 63

UFG-2673

APPR: 3

SOURCES PARAS: 1-6; MEMBER (F) OF THE CUBAN LEGAL PROFESSION WITH

• EXCELLENT CONTACTS AMONG ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND IN EXILE;

ARASTACIS ARE

PATON O-SEC MAMBER (F) OF A PROMINENT ANTI-CASTRO FAMILY FROM

TW COMMEN:

ROUTING

INITIAL

NO SEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION

19-120-27

IS BEING MADE OF THIS TACE

RID/AN

14-300-2

PID/NTS

• Y.

JOB $ 65 - 541

C3

Class restion: 19-130

Ronny ra ulter tate

Y

SAS,

MH/ RES

RELEASING IWO

?

7022

5

MICROFILMED

Hit 1 1964

DOC. MISIO

CNPRICEPENCE

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

E:

BASED ON,

ROUTINE

XXI

PRIORITY

dra-2673

14 APRIL 0420 263

1ol, 24

EXCIUORO FIGM

AUTOMATIC

SEGRE

OECLASSILICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

104-10192-10248

TELEGRAM INFIRMATION REPRT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CONFIDENTIAL -

CLASSIFICATION - DISSE

NATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA:

SUBJECT:

UNIRICATION OF THE MRP WITH THE ALPHA 66

C.

2. POSSIBLE ACTION IN CUBA BY ALPHA 66 AND

REPORT.NO. TOCS DB- 3/654, 186

DATE DISTR

14 APRIL 1963

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

REFERENCES

BATE OF 7-13 APRIL 1963

iN 17636

INFO

DATE ACO HATED STATES (5 AMD 13 APRIL 1963)

APPRAiSAL : 3

FiELD REPORT, NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFIMITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVI

SOURCE

PARAS "1-6: A MEMBER (F) OF THE CUBAN LEGAL PROTESSION WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS

AHONG ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS

IN CUBA AND IN EXILE; PARAS 7-9: A MEMBER (r) OF A

PROMINENT ANTI-CASTRO FAMILY ANTONIO VECIANA.

P

"1. ALTHOUGH. RADIO AND TV NEWS IN THE MIAMI AREA HAD BEEN

R

BROADCASTING SINCE NOON ON 11 APRIL THAT THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP, PEOPLES' REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT),

SECUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SFNE, SECOND NATINAL

}

FRON ESCAMBRAY) AND ALPHA 66 WERE JOING FORCES, THE MRP EXECUTIVE.

COMMITTEE WAS INFORMED ONLY. ON THE EVENING OF !! APRIL RY CARLOS

DE LOS SANTOS PENIN COMINICIS THAT HE HAD BEEN NEGOTIATING FOR

THE AMALGAMATION OF THE THREE GROUPS, AND THAT HIS EFFORTS

WERE SUCCESSFUL TO THE POINT THAT THE ONLY THING REMAINING

WAS FOR THE MRP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TO APPROVE. (FIELD COMMENT:

SHI: AN MRP• LEADER IN CUBA WHO RECENTLY ESCIDED CUSA THROUGH THE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

-CONFIDENTIAL CONTRONLED DISSERA

PARISIA ARMY/ACSIL MAVE

•OCI

048 009

TELEGRAM

CUSTOMS COAST. GUARD

TREASURY

I&NS

FBI

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM.

(19-201

PORN

IKO. OBSOLITE PREVIOUS SOrTIATE

---

## Page 3

104-10192-10248

HON

EN TAL

ION

-DISSEMINATION CONTROL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCSD8-3/654, 156

BRAZILIAN EMENSSY, HOLOS NO OFFICIAL POSITION IN THE MAP EXILE

COMMITTEE, HE HOWEVER WAS A CANDIDATE FOR NATIONAL COORDINATOR

IN EXILE FOR THE MRP.)

2. THERE WAS SO MUCH ENTHUSIASM BY THE MRP MEMBERSHIP IN SAVOR

OF THE OFFER TO JOIN FORCES WITH SUCH WELL-KNOWN ORGANIZATIONS THAT

QUESTIONS: AND NOTES OF CAUTION RAISED BY SOME SEEMED HOLLO.

3. ONE OF THE REASONS FOR THE ENTHUSIASM WAS THAT THE MSP

HAD PLANNED TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF JOINING THE CRE DURING ITS MID-

APRIL CONGRESS, BUT JUST PRIOR TO THE OPENING OF THE CONGRESS,

JOSE MIRO CARDONA'S CONTROVERSIAL RESIGNATION HIT THE PRESS.

MOST OF THE MRP MEMBERS SOON CAME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT

THE CRC WAS FINISHED, AND BEFORE THEY COULD EXAMINE THE POSITION

IN WHICH THIS DEVELOPMENT WOULD LEAVE THEM, THE OFFER TO LINITE WITH

SENE AND ALPHA 6Ó CAME LIKE A BOLT FROM THE BLUE.

4. THIS PROPOSAL TO UNITE WITH SENE AND ALPHA 66 WAS PUT TO AN

OFFICIAL VOTE ON THE MORNING: OF 13 APRIL, IT WAS APPROVED SY

APTROXIMATELY 7D PERCENT OF: THE MRP DELEGATES. THOSE WHO FAVORED

A MORE CAUTIOUS APPROACH TO THIS MOVE ABSTAINED RATHER THAN TAXE

A STAND AGAINST THE MOTION.

i. THE AFTERNION SESSION OF 13 APRIL WAS SCHEDULED TO ELSCT

A NATIONAL COORDINATOR IN EXILE, THIS IS THE HIGHEST OFFICE IN

THE MRP. THE NOMINEES WERE PENIN, JOSE SALVADOR PRINCE ANO

1O10UIA

0195377

PREY Y SOLIS. THERE WAS RATHER SOON BACKING

BOBNBENTIAL

LASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTRO

CONTROLLED DISSEM

17636

PACI

---

## Page 4

104-10192-10248

File

VEE

STES REST

GLASSIFICATON - DI

INATION CONTROLS

With

LOBAI

CONTROLLED DISSENT

TOCSOB- 3/654,186

17636

AÖR.

FOR GODOY FROM A SMALL GROUP OF EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AMONG

WHOM WERE LINO PEREZ, FERNANDEZ NUEVO, ORLANDO MARTINEZ, JULIO

GARCIA MOURE, SAIZ DE LA MORA, AND MARIA CRISTINA HERRARA;

SUT PENIN SEEMED TO HAVE CAPTURED THE IMAGINATION OF

ALL OF THE UNCONMITED EXECUTIVES. PRINCE WAS NOMINATED MORE AS

P.

Y

- A GESTURE TO HIS FORMER UNDERGROUND STATURE, SUT HE WAS NOT

EXPECTED TO FIGURE STRONGLY IN THE VOTING.

6. GODOY'S FOLLOWERS COMPRISE THE CONSERVATIVE BLOC ON THE

QUESTION OF UNITY WITH THE OTHER TWO GROUPS: AND,: REGARDLESS OF

THE OUTCOME OF THE VOTING HE WAS URGED TO RAISE A POINT OF ORDER FOR

R. AN EVENTUAL PUBLIC STATEMENT TO BE ISSUED AT THE END OF THIS CONGRESSE

' DOES THE JOINING OF FORCES WITH ALPHA 66 AND SFNE MEAN THAT THE

R

MR» INTENDS TO ASSIST THE FORMER TWO GROUPS IN CIRCUMVENTING THE

LANS OF: THE HOST GOVERNMENT OR DOES IT MEAN THAT THE FORMER TWO

!

Y

GROUPS ARE SUSSCRIBING TO THE MRP PRINCIPLES AND ESCHEWING THEIR

PAST TACTICS. WHICH WERE AT LEAST PARTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE

RECENT CRACKDOWN ON EXILES BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT? GODOY MAY

GO SO FAR AS TO. SUGGEST THAT IF THE INTENTION IS TO CONTINUE THE

WILDEAT RAIDS, THE MRO SHOULD FIND SOME OTHER BASE FOR OPERATIONS

OUTSIDE THE U.S.

•7. ON 4 APRIL ANTONIO VENCIANA OF ALPHA 66 SAID THAT WITHIN

THE NEXT THIRTY OR FORTY DAYS THE ALPHA GÓ ORGANIZATION WOULD

MAKE DISLIC A PACE BACH LAD SEN MANITANTHE CODOX FACTION

GONFOENTAL

CONTROLED INSKEM

---

## Page 5

104-10192-10248

INATION. CONTAI

CONFIDENTIA

CONTROLLED DISSEM

TOOSES- 3/654,186

OF THE MRÉ, VECIANA ALSO SAID THAT HE HAO A MEETING WITH

FAUSTINO LESL, WHO BACKS THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONATIO ESTUDIANTIL

(DRE, REVOLUTIONARY STUDENTS' DIRECTORATE) AND WITH FERSONNEL

OF THE COMMANDO L ORGANIZATION FOR THE: FURPOSE OF RESCHING. AN

AGREEMENT WHERESY THE DRE AND COMANDOS L. WOULD RECEIVE FINANCIAL

BACKING FROM ALFHA 66.

8. VECIANA ALSO SAID THAT SUAREZ NUNEZ (FNU) A FORMER BATISTIANO

FROM NEW YORA, HAD BEEN ACCEPTED FOR MEMSERSHIP IN ALFHA 66.

9. WITHIN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS THERE WOULD BE A LARSE SCALE

ACTION WITHIN CUBA. (FIELD COMMENT: THERE HAVE BEEN SOME ALLUSIONS

TO THE FACT THAT BOTH ALPHA 66 AND SECUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL

ESCAMBRAY ARE PLOTTING FOR SOME SORT OF A PROVOCATION ACTION.

THERE IS AY LINCONFIMRED RUMOR. WHICH SUGGESTS THAT THE RECENT ATTACK

BY CUBAN AIR FORCE AIRCRAFT ON THE SS FLORIDAN WAS ENGINEERED

BY EXILE ACTIVIST GROUPS. AS OF IGOD, HOURS ON 13 APRIL THERE

WERE NO FURTHER DETAILS ON THIS PLANNED "ACTION".

ID. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT CINCARIS COMNAVKEYWEST MIAMI REP-

RESENTATIVES OF BORDER PATROL FBI STATE IANS CUSTOMS AND USCG

IN

17636

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEVIMATRON CONTROLS

CONTROLLED EISSEM

---

