# 119-10021-10413

## Page 1

119-10021-10413|

Date: 09/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER : 119-10021-10413

RECORDS SERIES :

INR FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : FBI

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOS

FROM

: CHAIRMAN, SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUB

TO : MEMBERS OF SUBCOMMITTEE ON CASTRO

TITLE :

REPORT FOR JULY - AUGUST ON ACTIONS TAKEN TO COMBAT CASTRO-COMMUNIST S

DATE: 09/30/63

PAGES : 23

SUBJECTS :

SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

DOD AND CIA REVIEW

COMMENTS :

Draft subcommittee report attached.

* st sti

## s

* *

*W*

* I*

*T'*

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

*I*

* #

*C*.

*A*

"*D*

***

se sie ste

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NY 50953

DocId: 32112623

Page 1

---

## Page 2

+ petis

011233

Sopicsoco 39, 1009

2008

9077307₴

¡aabens ei Cubecantilde do Grocro-Cornuist

Subversidae

Chartmozu, Subcocaiclod on Cubaa Subverslos

tinose Ise July a ducurs en detinne Talien to

Co:bat Castro- Cornucioe, Estrecolage

Artschel do a droft of the Sabeocaiticos repert for

Jaly exd Auguos co nortone cohen do conteraci Cactzo-

Tho deeis hos

50612

azeparid on the bocio ci the noterint chich you furadored

o dia ecade vale note that

horo catoroted foca ble mincleo do 14ac0 O1 oction 10107

ond picoed tacoe in che bolg di the perart.

sadomicedos conseined da Coo distoclod 1 tovc cade ioto sa

se terra the intellinsues

1a.2

11111

mand 1006 2a Che 1n2o2e

the Clà barbes puopare 240 141.60040d 6i6 609 72245.

Jing have your concre on the conde by clooe es

Docinaes Carobor 1, 1703.

Conte: t

VOTE 4T.

212 e Mi. Meer 611

Salice a dr.

tactan 01)

62-108553-5

ENCI OSURE

GROUP 1

Excluded from autosailo

downgrading and

declassification

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DRAFT

SUCHEL:

of _2 copies

GROUP I'

Excluded from autonatial

downgrading and

doolassification

1. Control. Of Troval to and Fear Cuba

Central Intellicence Agency

a. Developed highly useful information on frequency

of Cuban "charterce" flights to Eruzil, names and nationalities

of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control followed

by Brazilian authorities.

Transmiited this information to

of the non-

Brazilions travelling on these flights.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from

Cabar

See Anncs & for table of known travel of Latin Americans

during July and August.

d. At the urging of

the Embassy

the Bolivian Minister of Interior Issued in mid-July an order

prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba on other

Doc countries to Bolivian nationalo.

SECRET

462-108553-57

ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SISCRET

the Covermont of Chile prohibited the

entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban sponsored Second

Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to take

placa in Santiago in August, This was one of the factors which

led to postponeneat of theCongress.

I.

the Minister of Public Security of Costa Rica

Za presented legislativa proposais to the Costa Rican Assembly

which will require all persons intending to travel to Conmunist

countrics to have their travel approved by a newly created

Costa Rican security agency.

developed information

concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Cruz

on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are boing nade to obtain mose

information and to encourage stricter controls by the lickican

authorities.

Departront of State

a. Instructed Embaasy Conakry to try to persuade

Guincan authorities to deny use of alrport facilities by flights

on labana Moscod route. These efforts achieved a temporary

vithholding of permission for future xegular flighuo, at least

ITT 50953

Doc1d:32112623

Page 4

---

## Page 5

storan

until such time as the Soviets devalop thair own Icfueling facilities

at Conalry:

b. Instructed Embassy Dio to approach Brazilian

authoritics to copress our doap concom at the growing lacquency

of Culon ron-scheculod flighte in Tracil and request their

cooperation in curbing then. Alou Inetzucted cuz Imbassies

in several latin Anoricon countrics to work

in furnishing sho narcs of nationals of those countries

tinvalling on these flights to locnl authorities and urging

chen: (1) to institute tightor controla on their own citizens.

travelling to Cuba, and (2) to expross thoir concern to the

"ca of Brazil as a way station

for cransporting subversivec.

c. As a result o. aprosentations made to the British

governmont about Cuban fligics

to the Cayman Islands carrying

Lacin American subversives, the luitish developed en administrative

schen which will affcotivaly promibit the use of british

Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit points for passengers.

the Baitish intoad to Icquire tranoit visas of passengers passing

through their areas, and to rejack applications for such visas

except in certain special cases. Persons not possessing visas

would be prevented from leaving their aircraft, or would be

7 50953 DOCTO: 32112623

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECREE

returned to their point of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to

inform the Moxican airiine. Cal that the United States 1s

opposed to a propocal that his overate charter flights to carry

refugeds from Havana to Central Anerica, CiA, as a result,

slated that they had no intention of proceeding further with

this project.

e. Instructed U.S. MIsalons In Curaceo and the Ha gue

to investigate a seport thac KIt was plaining to renew el:

scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and

to reiterate US opposition

tO

resuoption of air service to Cuba, Kill assured our Embassy

that chere is no plan to iniciate scivice, scheduled os non-

scheduled, to Habana.

f. Instructed Embassy Ottava to express our strong

objections to a proposal that a Cubana cartes flight pick up

a second group of U.S. students in Montical to fly them to Cuba.

The flight was not authorized.

&. Instructed Consulate Georgeton to investigate

Cubanz approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission reported

on August 1 that the Governor hnd no Inowledge of any talks

betveen the B.G. Ministry of Coumunications and the Cuban Govern-

ment regarding landing rights for Cubana planes. The Covernor

te 4498-099 95 be fort

HH 50953 DOOTd: 32112623

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Indicated his Intention co inquira furthor and to keep us

advined. London reported Libe noither the Cuban nor the British

Guland Governments had raicod the issue of landing rights with

11.M.G.

h. Urged the sovciuánte of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica

and the Nathorlando to refuse to assisi the Cuban governuent

In ¡is eCiOrEs ta flad a else coule dor retunithe 5o Anerican

students who illegally travolled to Cuba. Also Informed Fan

Americen finays shei we were opposed to a Cuban request for

a PiA charces fligho to fly she students from Mabana to New York.

1. Instructed our mincions at lost of Spain end

Barbados on several occasions to approach these goverments to

exproso the concein of the los. as indications of Cuben interest

in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreiga Secretary

. of Trinicad various legal noves available that would enabla

GOTI to control movements of aircraft within their touritory,

citing examples of suci controls instituted by Mexico, Canada

and Ircland. Ee indicated receptiveness to the proposal that

the liot of suggestions be made available to the aviation officials

•concerned.

1. During a prcvious reporting period Inbassy Santiago

HH

50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRAT

or 6.0e

urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to Cuban delegatâs

to a preparatory neeting planning for the II Latin American

Xouth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean capital.

Inability of Cuban delegatos to obtain Chillon visas for this

mecting is one of the contribucing factors to the Cuban sponcors

announcing during August that the meeting had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in countrics

which participate in the International Union of Architects asting

them to urge the cooperation ot sovernmental authorities in

preventing or discouraging the attendance of their citizens to

the VII VIA Contress in labona, September 29-October 4, 1963.

Followed this up with inscructions to individual posts to try

There

feasible to dissuade anchatoots from free world countries

fron serving on the jury for the selection of a lay of Flgs

monument.

Io Urged Canadina Covarment to block a plan to.

commence food parcal shiprento to Suba, on a Commercial basis,

that would have required tha cocablishnent of scheduled weekly

chartes flights by Canadian pianes.

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

2. Control of Movement Of Cuban Provagenda

Contral Satelllecase Agency

police

of the State of Guanabara seized lurge quantities of propa-

gande brought into brazil by paosengers on the special Cubana

lights.

. For example, some 50 pounds af printed propaganda

was taken fron the various paocongass wo arrived on the 16

August Cubana flight.

3. Control of Clandestina Novonent of Guerrillas end dams

Depastrent of Dafense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba

curing the nonth of July at the sere rate and with the same

emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from

vithin the Atlantic Conmand, available to assist other Caribbean

govezuments in the Intercoption of suspicious craft in

8.

territorial waters, as might be requested.

No such requests reic

received fron any other government during the period covesed by

thie report. However, U.S. forces did keep track of the

location of the Soviet morchant froighter HITCHURINSK, vhich

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECREX

*S-

was suspected of carrying subversives and aims from Cuba to

British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINOK was under U.S.

survezllence from its departure from Havana until United

Kingdon forces assured the task of keeping this ship under

surveillance upon its approach to Coorgetown, British Guiana.

Subsequeatly, British police search of MITCHURINSk in british

Guiana waters revealed nothing of a suspicious nature.

Contral Intellinence Aseasy

the Pezuvian Govenment lab in August published a new anti-

terrorists law providing a penaliy of no less than five years

ImpIlsorment for persons vho particiate in guerrilla activities

or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or explosives.

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service is working

on a lcad

concerning a

200 con vessel reportedly Involved in

alas traitic.

Depariment of Stace

Instructed'our Consulate Ceneral in Ceoigetorn to

investigate reports that cornercial cargoes (rhich could conceal

illicit arns traffic out of Cuba) had developed beiveen Drltich

Cuiana and Cuba. Investigations to

date have been negative.

SECHEX

7TH 50953 D0010: 32112623

Page 10

---

## Page 11

sado fort

Lenartment of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Asscts Control Office of

thie Ixpacury Departront in developing blocking controls with

rospect to Cuba which went into eilicct on July 9, 1963,

5o Strenathoning of Countor-20

mancy Capabilities

Denartment of Refence

a. Continued the inotallacion of military communica

cions facilities in Latin Amorica. Operational dates for the

multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua,

Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have boen delayed to 15

October 1963 and 15 Decenber 1063, reapectively because of new

engineasing and contractual requirements.

Negotiations are

continuing with Colouble and Ecuador for installation of U.S.

'nilitary radio facilities. Completion of a now commercial trans

istinion cable in the Panana Canal Zord vithin the coming roath

is expected to improve military concunications within the

United States and the Conmandez-In-Chief, U.S. Southem Conmand.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S. Forces,

reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organizations and agencies.

SPORT T

HH 50953 DOOTd: 32112623

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Reports of curvaillanco have been disseminated to all who have

& requirement to know.

c. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 days per week duty

watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean countries in

conjunction with implementation of the military alerting systen.

Continued cfforts to staff the U.S. Southem Conmand Intelligence

Center with properly cleared, trained personnel (this center is

the military focal point for sclaying

information concerning

the movement uf subversives), rilled, partially, the authorized

billets in the U.S. Southern Cormand Intelligence Center and

took under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet

structure in the Center. The Cormander-In-Chief, U.S. Southern

Command together with his intelligence officer visited Hondures

and Nicaragua and detornined chat no significant problems existed

which would interfere with effcctive operations in those

countrics.

d. Action previously initiated by the Cormander, U.s.

Naval Forces, Southern Command (CONUSNAVSO) to establish a Small

Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATI) as a contribution to

the Caribbean Surveillance Systen is progressing satisfactorily.

SECREC

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SOCHIEZ

-11-

Fermanent assignment of U.S. Const Cuard personnel to SCIATT

In the Canal Zone has bech approved and the U.S. Coast Guard

has taken appropriate implerenting actions.

c.: During the period of this report,, the SCIATT COr-

ducted an on-the-job training course aù Puntarenas, Costa

Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guadia Civil

of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot

Coast Guard utility boats (CCUbs) or were to be assigned as

replacement crow nembers.

I. A quarterly inspection and valuation of the CGuEs

provided othor Central Ámerican countries wes conducted during

the poriod 17 to 31 August by a mobile training team (MTT)

made up of SCIAIT personnel.

§. Continued efforis to inprove the internal security

of Latia Aperican amies through tia provision of Intelligence

Advisors. Prcoently there are such advisors assigned to 14

Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-

subvcrsion.

h. During the reporting period liTts conducied training

In counterinsurgency for the amod forcos of Colombia, Bolivia,

Venazuela, Peru and El Salvados.

SECRE

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 13

---

## Page 14

-1?=

1. Civic Action MiT's vere sent to Guatenala, Bolivia,

Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

6.

Unchaaze of Intellinana 2.

2i2an Subversion

Department of Stete

Reiterated to the Forcign Minister of Peru our

interest. in having the fects of the Puerto Maldonado Incident

SECRET

7 50953 DOCTO: 32112623

Page 14

---

## Page 15

SEGRET

brought to the attention of the lis, and urged that this action

be taken as

soon as possible.

b. Uxged the Government of Guatenala tu submit evidence

of cotmunist activity to the OAs.

7. Surveillance of Cuban Dintendie, Cormerigal and Cultural

MissiOnE.

Conceal Intellirancy Arence

oy po its filled in it

IT 50953

DoCT: 32112623

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRAT

a8 140, 00

Danartment of State

Instructed Babassy La Fas to follow up closely on

charges of involvement of Cubor tinsion In intornal politics

DE Bolivia, and, at

the Inbaney"

• discretion, so point out to

Bolivian officials the opporcunicy sor a possible breal in

zelations with Cuba. Embassy In Per was not able to press

for & break when the evidence of Mban intcivention did not

prove to be as conclusive as oricianily reported.

S. Other Saccial rations

Depentment of State

a. Obtained action by i a C2As on July 3 on the Lavalle

Conmitice Report transmitting de coeumont to the govemments.

and urging them to implement she specific and general eccom

Rencations contained therein as soon as possible.

b. Through Embassy Menagua indoned tha Nicaraguan

Covernment of the matters which ve waited to have considered

during the informal neeting of the Vinisters of Security and

Intorior of the Isthnion countries hald in Monague, August

26-23 in prepacation for the second formal moeting of the

Managua Security Conforence countries later this year.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

c. Reassured President chick of Nicaragua in the

most exphatic terms that the Kuclear Test Dan Treaty did not

mean

chat our attitude toward Costro has altered in the

slightest, and streesed our laternst in seeing steady progress

by all the Istimion countrics in implementing the recormenda-

cions of the Monagua Security Conference to block Cuban

subversive efforts.

d: Explained in dotail. the nnture of the Cubên threat

and the related policy objectivor of the U.S, during conversa-

tion in London and in Washington with Me. Adam Watson, newly

appointed British Anbassador do Cube.

United States Infomation

220%

The Agency's prent corvice during the reporting

period transmitted 12 articles, comtentaries, and backgrounders

on its wirelces file corvice to Cell poots throughout Latin

America for placement in the local newspapers and the Voice of

Anerica Spanish broadcasts to Latin Amorica carried a total of

23 conmentaries and fcatures on the subject of Cuban-based

subversion in addition to the rogular reporting of developnents

in the houcly newscasts.

SEC:

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

→ 16 ano

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to sive

special attention to dovclopnonts related to Cuba-based

subversion, USIS posts in latin inerica vore prompt in reporting

incidente and in providing editcrial comments fzon the Latin

American press, all of which was used in the Agency's radio and

press oucput.

The main dovelopnento treated in the Agency's radio and

press coverage included Castro's July 20 speech urging revolu-

tions in Latin America, the diecovery of terrorist weapons

Factories in Guayaquil, the Bridorean Vice Presidont's accurion

of Cuban responsibility for Ecrrorisn, the statement by State

Departnent Press Officer Richard Whillips that "potential

subversive agents" from Cuba to the Caribbean azea were passing

through Cran Cayman, the expulsion of a Bolivian youth leades

for receiving funds from Cuba, Castro-trained terrorists in

Moaduras,/Bolivian protesto against meduling by the Cuban Enbassy

in tho miner's strike. A Voice of Anarica roving repoitci in

Latin Anerica proviced several reports Déutzarica on the

subversion picture in countrics he visited.

c. In support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based

subversion, the publications conter in Mexico began work on

SECRETE

ITT 50953

DooTd: 32112623

Page 18

---

## Page 19

REENES

three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report of

his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted

hinsqle in some of his oxtravagant claims of Soviet progress),

the losses sufferod by Cuban Labor under Castro, and the fate

of political prisoners. in Cuba. When completed, these pamphlets

will be reproduced and distributed in quantity throughout the

SECRET.

ATT 50953

DoCTA: 32112623

Page 19

---

## Page 20

SCH

22302:

Sepccubar 33, 1053

reabors si Schocaliteo ca Crazzo-Corninioe

Eubversaon.

Chnárace, Subcomástre on Cubaa Subversion

dazoe or detions Talion to

dale sac

conionici

Auguso da dotidae taxon ts countorzet Coodza

The draft bne bood

prepard on cho bacio of the motortel daich you forcachod

Mc C3X0z2 1411 note

tasti

Mro CrEaChed 1204: 2022001

CH X00 X4243 04 C0XL01 40727

anr alccod thoac ie the brig of Le 2otort.

Tao Intelifronce

Incomoslos coopeirre le cho cutadroice & hove made doto sa

12-1200e

&thlok ie le vasy condul to bave

tho Ancellagenae

coin Tor part of tha 2000244.

nad roguces tone in tos intere

ebo; Ca perbor propure his sobettaios da teo perso.

Thy I nove yone concaso en che caada by cloce oc

baciacca Catobea 1, 1902.

Copics 20:

_(2)

20D • Gol, Wie (3)

Well +iar

vasley (3}

MAR a Ma, Ince (13

Juz206 - 120 Cohedit (1)

121:.000rdl0r:13

9/30/03

62-108553-51

GROUP 1

Excluded fron autosatie

downgrading and

doclassification

TINCLOSURD

HH 50953 DOrTO: 32112623

Page 20

---

## Page 21

GROUP I

- Excluded from autonatio

downgrading and

declassification

SS0H2

MiTS

CIA X0201

122.00

12202l Loan So

•I Banail

Chercored Colina Airlinco Flighta botricon Cuba ena

Irania hars becone a major mcans of connapcacing nor Cuban

Latia snoricono so and from Culee

The five suca digita Since

Iate duty have carriod acarly 400 zor-Cubnee

Tha first of the reccat sories a 02 25 July a becaubt

Pa Lacla Acarican pocconcero to Barons Eco Cho 26 3027 colca-c-

tions, • The culce four 111000g an 00 L6, 22, 23 30d 20 Auguei c

tronaporeed ovor 200 Jorin Anarirono Co Procil Sroo Havens.

Sovc od to aisorate involord resorned to Our vich crallas

manbors of pesocigorse Wang ou tho 100 Tocin Arosicon passengers

hed Doco delonaros do the 20 duty conciceles,

but ochoro bad

apparcasly boca an Cobo for Jonper pocioto and some And pectacly

rocoduod trainiog there, Ol the paccongoco ou cucao dous 21220ia

co Eoa21l, 75 moro nocives of Caraboden once colatrics.

Thicks

circuitouo cravel chrough Bracil as cricoacly designod to scip

conceal the foot that thog had baco sa Crie

CoOl 1193

Two Costa Mcana woro Aroni Che pacceppare Ca s

charcored Colora plane wich ves

cured bacie to liovond as Cassd

Coyoto do 11 July 1903. Cucuo Kor Honkoz Coconcoc: Ela:22,

the coly Coota Ricos toron Anom Cobrava boos sont to Cuba Sor

training as a guer-slin warfan inscruciss.

She had been 1n

Cabit sinas Seatchbor 1962.

7e other bosca Rican gassangos nas

Corted Callies, Soneer head of the Cooon Mcca Sectory od

Friusdo of cha Cuban Rovolusion who hud boon la Coba aines

Roveabor 1902.

SoundsE

The CIs seathes in Onito roporty Choc the rilitary

june, Which assused govar in acuacos on 11 July, cou ba encecisa

62108553-5.

ENCLOSURE

— the to 2

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 21

---

## Page 22

STONET

3.7948499

so foiiow cho suidance of the linboay and the Station 1n

controlling travel to and fron Cuba and cho Soviet blee

220

scriviilad on Cobad savorosror In Teredors

an accor for tha

have doen aroIg Inised by thE INIS arrests es

Compalsos and DIc-Cubens and by die outioning od the Concuriut

lenty by t20 But

• It: 15 Noported shar the Fonduren Corconiot Larsy haz

¿scund ordors to its sobers nos to aticane to travel to cuis

of tho prossas tree

Tais action ao apperently the t0oalt ca

the Anozcasins vigilence of to Menduran Sovercons

and tre

2. Morancos 25 Cubas Prenaranda

Cuzzerola

According to an uncontimed soport rescived in July,

& Irreau 01 Infozadtion of tha Concuaist Farcy Od Guatcucia 20

bales fored in collaboration dich Aniana Larina and 15 to 19

It expecto to saceive nous by chorcrava

IUdio Exon Cuba and polas bullosina for discricution by sodlo

pacesza by taich 31a792 222/03

TII REcOpE tO diotribaLo on a Lore clardostias Decid La Obaor

Tondusas

It ens rollobly sopoctod that ia ricatuly 1903, a

Ema12 constal facialices inded 14 Inaca bones of Consumine

propaganda ca dbe nortiara codue of hondurao, the bence havicz

basa sranconed at sca froo & Jacgur vessel,

Annantied

Exceer icE mansass of the Porsclot Dacty, Canazcatly

under the Icocezahim of nich flourco do toctos Villaion and

John Million Coaro, use epparacly recciving casparageacad and

22c.1a23 of lasco also of nonay fron Gula la suppore Of taria

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 22

---

## Page 23

ton dt

villaloa bos ecaccd that lie plos corlo fos coronding dod

Icoslloraclos cubvaraive ectlvieios fa Azgantico colatortaro

Inº # e0plte

kee oros salcase too Jtock.

ICro 20 20 ioiicie

Ludo Iaron Linsold i1o agauad to thid pioce It hos Docs

mopontsd trat Icadoro od the Cosauntos dosey of Acsastina Cove

buda preatly emnoged by dle cendonoy of tro Coduro cogine to

errpoc the zovolutioary Perontoso aiabout havlog concultes

Cho Cousuadse Dariy oo Argentèlsa

It ão mapozoed 1int tho soccalled Amny of Motioza1

Ilbesctlon (ai.) o° Argontina, Vilch 15 c rejacavelg, Cial1

Gactroiot osganiaacioa diroctod fico

Ousa by Johy Riiaton Cocteg

1ão de raceos docià boro pogocinting for tho purchaca of amo

asd hac boon ofzaaed tutaecháae puaas

boroskas end obbox woogone

Dy tuo oe dnoco pivaca cupol.ne9

Ii ves roported,

barewcts

chac soo Ald woo bsviag dacclonity setting couugh coidaze Erca

Cubo to raho sigacilonas pucchaser pacaiole

Ealzula

Tho Ballvloa Mantasry s6 Torudy RoIaczons co 22

Mugmoe proroosod Comolay te cho cuban Chorae C'NCfasro in

1a Fas

agajost cho Cobon Troudy aopport to tho uinoce durisg

Dhe rooons coidiõe Subdeou.

hartrvor, Focad0n Mankdess

Pida Bino DaCae 2 Ce dar Bused noc feac Erat

cic Covcvanoo: of Do1i7ie n1: 1002 Aipfoonalo roisions vich

Cudie.

zaece bas, in det, mca

ro nncd Lodemaddos Zinliing the

Cubos Fobasey With the procc, minlng crioo In aptto of scae

Ispcoaelmed ropeete se Cobod sopport.

Iuaall

Coben Arioorscat do Tiast1

Roal. Aoa Roari, 15 repczcca

Ls tuve etccopeed do oncoi

e.gant

1:9010 Icedee Fonciico

Judln0 to roxaeciise cie 2000

In aociasia Boiuilo

Accord:23

co sooo rocesto dicoube ari biing andu lo mifg sia

Icadcroulg

sn bordng diocadont clencato cadot cho Geoorni Caroceion os

J02250%

OLscr roponte Inoloae chat, rtchoosh too Cobea Sobasty

13 poorielns guldenes ary

ocily tnancisd support do cine

Bovanont, it

Puto ta0t Jitin.diidi

tn sabozast disgoncios in

cho lesgucc.

!' .?: ".!::

Fawd1

NH 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 23

---

## Page 24

220.3015

Sa122)52

Faso Colcidia ruperte Lavo boco received of incressino

Cuboo costocence, primerily in cac dom Oû troluing courece L7

increatoro who bove boso trainad in Cube, to tho Worker students

Korease Kovanene quose).

A canid currrilio baoe cocounseted

Dy la Colo-2a3a day in Joly 1063 voo becher up when Sve

mashes of the bond vero killed and tuo ochono coptured.

Crablo Chonduegos and hoo Tacong, And Mottoking of the Mosc

wars found do too cose olto.

Recent reporte have indlecasd ea

Ancssase lu cho sororat Citorio of the NOSC and Incrcasod

pictusce

of ascistonos tres Cud Cuevers with sogord to Es

roponsodly using coolood in Caron Alco by Adolfo Carcia 2122212031

vailomons Miscubora rouTasionosy Ioodas cod renbor of she

Za. carly

Aupras, Alourco Corsosay Leador of bie 2in In Conca diedy Left

with a goosp of Macaramana

Ise cha Coola Décar Mccrazoan

The pozchase of di

espous and she recrisent

of MorzoS082iS

for e novorces dachdon diceregus ere 2i0o sopcreedly

underusy in CocCo Fia

"note Mere apirator, Sere Sea does

1ocn Ador inco Mensagto.

Dannies, sho apartiy 2a3:0id wed Precing the toy too

cH.0222016 12 C068g M90 4421004

Cile roscondlority by 630

Costa Facan Corauhlet Tout,.

d..

200 Moscard asco? Coredo botoü to sove sonirot c acoup

was and nacing don did wir

Dance dily.

howeverg

that:

wait copade ite

20x-11400.

NH 50953 DocId: 32112623 Page 24

---

## Page 25

ciais a'".

3774970

Intershod on da cocotil fores do conoty dud

craclictino.

Me de 8E.0::1

Intereston Facos (Mia)

Nicaragos manca tha Lula of 1002, 2h0. Serensth oi Cho Sorco

so Fot 2701024

* 335022053

A captured surrilia od the la Cacional Libaracten

• tubercuppossad, acio coreana

stocp) condonoud that ho vao n

deber of a srony of 45 tio

encoced Ticaragua inos Monderno on 12 wal5.

No codd that thei

noston voo to cocubliaa a bado corp In $az Icabolão Docuonino,

Deportadas os dinotors, in ontor to Indocerainato the pescacto

Ke acadtted chet 2o

chat ochos fai casdare hod rocaived sicilar eradadago

Gold that the SEi Srainiag Fing Iu Homirao Cao acto 71 150253.

on tho Datuca favor.

4 20000/21ne Dista

Isitania

Ita Erikich Colact, Cutaar IportuTrore Corporasten

(Canas) receivei

e one ballion dollar cévoaco paycone copecused

by tho Cubos Alpes Coroarelon For poode to be dorivorod to

Cusa in to Sacura,

Campos lobo An Brama

lonace thao novay to

Das Governais os D21:40d Cuidade

Exogrcocuro darcy de Te rajor Clockholdar 1o Câ:242.

Rapaie, Wrcoger od Caper, Ms intented choc Clogor Vii DO

ablo to accore súdition Jeano Eros Cusa Is asounds sudoezeat

co Lido dio Sacer covarece over ary Corcosaablo culeis.

ano blog toporcod that Cloger piens Lo bry dizenade, Spare pouco

and cuce raculassy in cho United Scacos for zooblozone to Cas

2a0211

Mopores continua to bo accorod froa may placoa indicais

that tho sultonos abil o6 cocccooy L1 60111 coc oi the roct

comos cultodo no0d by da Cubasy for cancalecios Erado 102

uno in augporting cobrarcávo corvibles throughost the hostectare.

Inscancos vacro such funde have boen conticonced by tha polico

ROLO OCCUIICÓ COCCIlY In El SAlvador, Incana ara Lecidos.

NH 50953 DocId:32112623 Page 25

---

