# 119-10017-10244

## Page 1

119-10017-10244

Date: 09/13/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER : 1191001710244

RECORDS SERIES :

LOT 90D48:SOV FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : OSWALD, LEE, SOVIET DOCUMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HELMS, RICHARD

TO : RANKIN, J. LEE

TITLE :

DISCUSSION BETWEEN CHAIRMAN KHRUSHCHEV AND MR. DREW PEARSON RE LEE

DATE: 05/27/64

PAGES : 3

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

SUBJECTS

OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

'CURRENT STATUS : *C

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/93

kp2110097

Excisal

OPENING CRITERIA :

CIA REVIEW

COMMENTS : CiA deleterio.

Secret.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50953 DocId: 32112195 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

→ SJAL

Sor

27 Nay 196k

RES

AND GRATES

FORe

Iro d. tee Menday

Canarat. Counso:

restient is camdeston on tho

Assassination of Maident Kernedy

GUAG

This w1l1 amplify my telephonte romats to you on 25 lay,

during whích I infornod you that in. and fud, fou Tearion had

ple

hạo a

• 45-námite conversation in Colzo on 9l May with Chalmin

Khrustschevs

has roported & con-

veraatton which he end hia wite held isth

Ana Did Are, Dron

Fonzaon Am Calzo on 2h and 25 J/zo.

Nothing in the cable

quoted belov should be construed as otriatine my fonirebility

the Cornission ney deos about

bowing tostimony direotly from

Tie and 125o

Pearson,

to are fomanding to to you sololy for

the purpose

of pianing in your tendo as tha cartlest moment tha

Information shich has been provided to ue in thia primlogod

deshtons

the mascage

as follows:

#Tirs• Drew Toazion prorided en the evoning of

2l Ney tho #tant informabion on the daniA portion

of too denversation with Ghatanan and tra. Hurshchaw.

Mrs, Mrstchoy opened the compersation ly Inguiring

about has& lomedy and exprassing concora about and

affection for her. Irs Pearoon resanured her, saying

tose krs, lennosy tad bone up zonarratay wead and was

in gecd boulde

Hoot es tate conregaation ta in

Englinh whịch Mrs, Thruebcher sponks fairly well, with

sace daoistance fron lurnahchey: intormeter, cho had

served in the feet ne interpretor for the Poozzone

and sho helped arrange the mosting.) Thio lod into-

irs» Khrushchey* inquiry about that mutual friend,

the vite of Chief Justice Harren, and thence into

SECRET

ATHT

50953

DoCTA: 32112195

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

nemion of the lazron Comtestan.

Cholaman Karachobew

then Jesnod the conversation, expreoming sorror at tho

assiestation and alps inguired about Is, Kennody-

(hercupar he adhod Mr. Fedason,

» Poneson sold in olfoot that tho shole altato had

takes place jars ne had boen aposted in tho neuragera

Not a cát on hang tho ho

Whos realty happened?!

aad procably by the Soviet Anbosonder In Monkängton.

Chalman Khrushchov was atterly incredistous and his

attabute was charotonized by Fro. Foaron so being

archotypiced

Pot every Piropoon I have over talked to on

the subjoot thet is, that there won gone lind of

consydebey to asseseinato Frasident

murdon the assadoin tith the Dallas Polico Dopertrat

being an accrosory. 1ra. Merson got the impression

that khairan trushchew had sons darts thoughte aboat

the Amonican light Wng

bating behind this conspleacy

although Chairmn Ibarashcher dial not articulate this ta

any clear Chatton.

Hro, Jeerson toa a bio vague on tais

point in fetingtching botreon shad

* Minan Izushcheu

sald and what sho thought he belloved;

then It. Porcon

maid that we heartens aze pocution people, 10 under

atandable thet toroinous had diffety comphanding

thás tantaatlo eplendo, but in fect Osuld wus ned, had

actod on his on, ditto Riy, Chalexen Munalchov endd

Matly that he did not boliero teto.

He sade ho did

not boltere thas the Anortoan pocurity sericos vore

this inopt»: Ir. Foarson again antd he agroed this

was hand to bollove bat the facts voro as thoy amponrode

1re• Khruchchey also aturescod disbelãof and nostoratad

her attection for led, Hennady,

#no. Faurison repented

that the roaction of Chaimpa

. Inmusachus and his side

voo one of flad-digbolior and

i anchotuniont of tho

untveront. Europom belter that, thana saa tone land of

Anerican compiracy bahtod tag assassination of Presl-

dent fannedy and the mindon of Corald.

Chatman and

Nird» rushchoy could not bolieve that the offair had

hoppmod as 16 suprently did mu lo, Fonoon endo no

benchay thatorar in trying to change thelz boltor that

constaing sao not on the lavol.

Chasmen: Burushchev

groated 10% and Nra.

• Roarsone elforto with a tolerent

The conversatton thon drifted into Contaman

rosinetou! Arionly commenta about Frosidont Johnson.

#On

tine

moming of 25 lay,, Ier Posrison referred

on passant

tho Oprald portion ot the conversation;

SECRET

ATHT

60953

Doc1d:32112195

Page 3

---

## Page 4

anying thet Chalman Murishchey tos coupletoly denvinced

that the taus story of the Lomacy ascassanation has not

Core CaDe

sale a nicket with Khrushchov on this one.! No cave tho

Impronoton that Cadrao Kurhohort attitido too ano ot

coupleta onytatan as to the public vornion rathes shan

boing one of bolting concrete idoca so to arctly that

happenade

rotoreno to thn tact Shet Giron md fit, Kreuchsher

are cominced thns the cubite vorston of the astate 1a

not tous and that nothing thay could say altered tate

beliaf,*

(Signed) Richard Helms

Tachand Teles

Deputy Direotor for Fiona

Pro Jotin Me: Todan

for,: Richard Re

Devia

SECRET

ATHT

50953

DocId: 32112195

Page 4

---

