# 119-10003-10076

## Page 1

119-10003-100761

Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DS

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER : 1191000310076

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 39-141-046

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

p/5DRc2

2 ensua

6 (IS(B)

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DDE

TO : CHIEF, USSS

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM

DATE: 07/12/62

PAGES :

13

SUBJECIS

KENNEDY, JOHN F.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : 1C,

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/30/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

CIA REVIEW - COMPLETED

COMMENTS :

CIA DOCUMENTS released in part

tasters*:

[R] - ITEM RESTRICTED

•The Departmont of Steta setsases this document

in part and postpones relasse of portion(s) of it

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (PL 102-526)

Reviewed on. 5/30/95 An

Portion(s) Postponed Under.. i C by C/A

NH 50953 DocId: 32281676 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C,

x525)

12 JUL 1962

7/17/62

#Series 19

10

Captains in

United States Jeoret Service

Puttive Seriach

riThis document consists of

FROM

Deputy Director, Plens

Copy - of t received.

Series SY-A"

SUBJECR: Via1$ of Presidont Kennedy to Brazil

1. Roference in made to our 030I-3/773,113, dated 22 June 1962,

and CS0I-3/771,522 dated 29 June 1962, subject as above.

The attached briefing paper incorporates material fran

referenced ASdts with additional information received fren

zogarding the Preaident is

vrait to brazil. Also enclosed for the background information

of the Secret Service are brief papere on the political, econonio,

labor,

student, and arny situation to Brasil.

CS0I-3/771,616

1/2115-B91

EST.

Attachment: One, as above

co #

Department of Stato

39+72559

C:..SE OF SE

RESEARCH E

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

JUL 12 1962

OFFICE OF SECURITY

• NOT TO BE FILED

W/O INITIALS

IT 50953

DoCT: 32281676

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SEESE:

T July 1952

RIO DE JANELORO

1. Security Forces Changed vith Protecting the President

A. Departmento Jederal de Éeguranca Fublica (DESP)

Responsibility for the secuity of the Presidential party

by law recte with the Departmento Federal de Segurance Publica

which bas its main hondguarters in Bros111e. Tie nationiide

authority of tais unit, however, to che lenget ly various otter

State and Federa. entities and it is genoraly recognized that

the Departmento Federal de Segurance Publies simply 19 not

capable of effective action outside the Federal Distriet.

the Rio de Jenetro ares, the protection of the Presidential

party will be the reponoibility of both the Guanabara Police

end elenento of the ldo-baged Pirat Army •

The Cuanebare Departmento da Seguranca Publico (DSP) 15

headed by Chief Neuton Marces Crus::

The

Becret Service officers should neet with Chief Crus and Dr.

Antunes. Cruz, who has been 1a his present job for a little

over two months, is the sixth chiet of police in the last

thirteon months.

The conmander of the Pirat Arny is four star General Osvino

Altres.

Це

has instructod the folloving key officore to hold themselvea

Staff of the First Army; Colonel Napoleon Nabra, Chief of 2nd

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32281676 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

2222.

t3o Strat Any alfteste cile muchro

sono to chiatte entat sono nonteto ottael ente

mn121210100.

to fa bollan thomalo chema

C.

geos antie

conto Peter (antamos e tota bene les)

mamoso der eretate

pesto ca tho Mendette vinto: Ito Mandno Micoal de

Curat so do

oo 940 C

meno to ho 2h

cun inese

peteo 2090e

As asso s

sullo of persse

Shong De C

SECHET

ITHT

60953

DoCTd: 32281676

Pare 4

---

## Page 5

ISECRET

2.

Croups and Inlividuals

Expected to Aasume & Hostile Attitude

Toverd the Vinit

A. Brozillen Comunist. Pasty (PCE)

While the Brazilian Communist Party, with a menbership of

approximately 30,000 in the country ana 2,800 in Guanabare State,

now follows e non-violent polley to echieve ito gool, it can

nevertheless be expected to meter ite farcad within

the student,

Labor and press flolds to stage demonstratione, male spooches, and

display propagande materiale such se postore, banners and

Breat during the time the latter was schedulad to be in thia

country •

Among the plane made by the Party. and scheduled for the

period of 20w27 july were the following:

Mass denonstrations gainet the visit and the

allionce for progress in the more important

B. Official protests ogainst the vialt by lebor

soû student groups

Mass Alstribution of propagande materials and

palatingo of velle and sidevalke in protest

egainst the visit

B. Communint Panty of Brazil (CB3)

The Commniet Party of Brazil is a dissident group which haa

broken with the Exerizion Communist: Party and cavocates violence,

along tho lines of Fidel Castro'a Cuban Commundsts, to achievo

While the Cormnist Party of Brazil has relatively

few menbers and much lese organizational capobility than the

Brazilian Commist Party, certein Individuals within Its ranke

might conceivably attempt some sort of violent action against

the Preaident or his entourage.

C. Peasant Leagues

The Pessent Lengues are Coumunist-ortentated rural groups con-

elating of sual workere, tenant farmers, and mall land owners

concontrated mainly in the States of Pernenbuco end Parsibo in

lortheast Brazil. A prominent Peasant Leaguo leader, Francisco

Jalloo, thile not einitting to Comminist Farty nemberchie, 16

definitely a Corminist synpethizer and strong advocate of the

policies of Fidel Castro and leo Isa-tung- He 10 a protogoniet

of the violent overthrow of the goverment through peasant

uprisings. Followers of Ironeloco Juliao con be expected to attempt

to demonstrate In R1o de Janeiro againet the Pronident's vialt.

1 50953 DOTA: 32281676

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

3•

A report previously fumished your office Inaicates that

these elemente are planning to make a red point bomb to be

thrown at Mrs. Kennedy.

Cuban and Soviet Bloo. Ribasites

Cuban and Soviet Bloc Inbassier con be expected to marehel

selected assete to create Aisturbences and Incidents designed

to mor the quaccos of the Presidential vielt,

Leonel. Drizola, Governor of. Rio Grande do Bul

Leonel Brizols, well-known leftist, anti-Anerican Covernor

of I1o Grande do Sul, may very posedbly take adventage of the

Prentdent's visit to ineptre further anti-Amertean speeches and

actions not only in his oin state, but also in Rio de Janeiro.

own Leftist Officiole Participating with Coulert in Volt

The identities of oll offletole uno will porticipate with

Coulert in the vlait are not known at this time.

It le

expeated that e new Cabinet will be formed prior to the time

of President lonnedy'e arrival and that other major changes

will recult in Coulert's offietal houschola.

It con be asawned that Toul fyft, Presa Secretary to

Prentdent Coutart, ill euvive any najor shake-up in the

Dxezilion Coverment 18 Coulent survives, Ryff accompanted

Goular% on the recent visit to the United States. Fyft has o

long history of Comuniet activity, dating back to the 1910'g.

A report dated September 2961 said that Brasilian Comuniet

Party leoders constdered Tyff a militent menber of the

Dreaition Cormntet Party tho was expected to be of great velue

to the Party becouse he enjoyed the deep confidence of President

Goulart.

Issues and Situationg thet Could be. Bmlotted by. Deposition to

Creste Hostility

At the present tine there are few if ony local situstione

or losses that vould have mass appeal and could be exploited by

the opposition to create hostility. There are the usual thenes

of econonic exploitation of Brostl by "foreign trusts", U.S.

military "occupation"

of Brazil which refero to the site of

U.S. military missions and the frequency of viatte of U.S.

military, interference to the internal offaire of Brazil through

instetence on bonio reforns in connection with the Alliance

for Progress, ete. It is more likely that the opposition could

get more nileage from some such thenes as the current nuclear

tecting by the United States or the alleged Intervention in

Cuban effeirs by the U.S. Covernent.

SEGRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32281676 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

5-

6.

Beceuse of the lack of exploitable local lacues ot

situatione that could be used to create hostility againet

the Prestdential. Party, it ie possible thet opposition

efforto my bo devoted simply to creating dicorders and

unsettled conditions because of purely local and internal

ecotonie and political problens.

there are plenty of these.

The objective in this event would be to create such on

unsettled situation that the visit of President Kernedy night

be either projudiced or cancelled.

Boute Fresidential Party u1l} Follou with Detoriation of

Lotentles

Danger Spote.

Enroute fron the Coleo airport to the Bmbassy renidence,

-located at fue Seo Clemente to, 338, several narrow bridges

have to be traveroed timediatoly after departing Galeno.

Obotruction of the Prestiential party could more ensily be

accomplished at this aras thin after the cavalcade has reached

the matntand.

The UN ( student organization) butting ie

located along the Flamengo at a point which would have to be

pessed if the party vere to use automobiles.

Since the UNS

can be expected to take an unfriendly attitude toward the

vialt it can be assumed unfriendly banners, posters or

demonstrattone will be encountered at this point.

Tus Geo

Clemente, on which the Enbassy residence 18 located, 1a e

parton street with & carp right hand turn into the grounde

from Bao Clemente,

this nocessitates en almost dend stop in

order to affect the tum and is a point there the Presidential

party u1ll be for a momont in a crovied area at almost zero

These represont the principal danger pointe along the

arrival and departure routes 1f the trips are made by

automobile.

At the time of President. Elsenhower 'e visit the

tirio from Galeno airport to the Naval Miniatry was made by

belloopter and the official parade begen at that point,

brewelling down Rio Branco, along the flamengo, and up Lua

Sao Clonente.

The rotarn trip wos made by boat from the Naval

Ministry to Caleno so that the long trip by autonobile wes

svoided e

General Tatam

of Situntion

At this time, the general security oituetion proveiling in

the Rio de Jeneiro area ie satiefactory. It is belleved that

the local forces - civilien and military - are cepable of coping

with ery boattle deronstrations or attempte at rioting or

violence.. At the time of the violt of forer President

Inenhover to Braell in 1960, the local forces proved capable

of providing the security needed for the protection of the

Presidont161 party shile in Rio de Janeiro. At the time of the

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32281676 Page

7

---

## Page 8

no)C

reatenation of Prosident Quadros in Miguet 1961, the local

forces again shoved their ability to cobe vita hostile crowds

and street demonotratoro •

the good will concrated by the

friendly reception of President Goulart on his recent trip

to the lintted States will be e foctor in inewing a similar

reception for Prestdent Kernedy, It is expected that the

Branilion offletal attitule tovards the visit vill be highly

fovorable and that this in turn will contribute tovarde o

windler attitude on the part of the proce end the pubite.

i-..

SEGRET

ATT 50953

DocId: 32281676 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEChted

9 Muty 1919

so to 10a,

terstood bean

* CON

99 450 M40 10 25023 3

mact the tests Ate Mes

nose tho

annotaros

Benet

china

1m 40

poten ton

Lenato Wind

SECRET

ITT 50953

DoCTA: 32281676

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

os ating do

CONTE

N volt.

a idio a

S26L

ITHT

50953

DoCTd: 32281676

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

t.

FER EL

IS 2018 t1 15a 9190

ATHT

50953

DoCT: 32281676

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET;

9 July 1962

BRACELZA

1o

forces Resonsblo, for, Erotecting

President

The petary responsibility for protecting the Fresident during

his atey in Erasilia lies with the Depertmento Federal de Segurance

Publica (DISP) •

The 273t, headed by Lt. Colonel Corlos Caszoli ond

unter the Mintetry of Justice and Intertor Attetro, han the

responsibility for the Vederol Dictriet of Brassl.

Since the bigher

positions in the lintetry and the-Did are empolative, those holding

then aze generally loyal to the eininistretion in pover.

the celiber

of personnel at the lower levele 1e poor becaune the aslaries are lot

ond the tradning to inadequate.

Thia too been renalted to sone

extent, however, by the training given to the DISP by the ICA police

tratains progron in effect alnce 1959.

The lack of continutty in

Zooderchip and therefore of long zange objectives bas aleo been e

hindrance to the elitetency of the Drus.

Nevertheloss, It is belteved

that the DJS2 vita be capoble of controlling any enti-United States

demonotrattone whlch noy arise during the

Preeident'a visit.

Coloral Catrolt his been reported to be pro-Communiet.

Regardless

of his potaonal politicas bellote, he con be expected to use bis ful?

povere as Chief of the DIS? to insuro that expropriate security

procedures are triplenented in cornection with the visit.

The most importent organisation within the DISP is the Divisso

do Policia y Boetal (DEPS) with ebout 450 employees.

This Airieton

to heoded by Coptein Artetonto Concolvea Loite tho has roportedly

been given this nosition by Coirall. Although the DEPS jo responalble

for the control, prevention, and investtgation of all natters and

ectivittes pertainung to disturbances in the polttical and sootel

order of. Broat], its notivities aro. largely confined to the Federal

District.

Assteting the DPPS and under ita jurtedtetion during the

Fresidentle wielt will be the following:

The Mittenized Police with about 7,800 non.

bo

the Special Folice of the DISP consisting of about

500 selected officers end men. Note le a spocially-

trained tiot equal for emergency duty and for

guerding importent persons, it le most effetent in

handling unruly crowds.

SECRET

HH 50953 DOrT: 32281676

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SEGRET

: 2

The Civil Guard of the DIES, coneleting of

epproxtnstely 2,500 officers and non.

It is

uned, chiefly on patrol and traffic duty.

The kunicipal Police, consisting of approad-

mately 2,300 officere and men,

e.

Groung end Individuale Erected to Anguine & Hostile Attitude

Coveris

the visit

hac reported that there are certain

groups which are likely to take limited action in protest againct the

Prosident'o vielt to Brucilto. The Brasilien Communiet Party and

possibly the (lesident Comnist Forty of Breaii (which has recently

broken off tron the Brazilion Communict Party), strongly antt-Unsted

States nationellet political orgenizetione (espectally those which

surport Governor Lecel Bripola of Rio Grande do Sul), and supporters

of the Peasant Lengues ol Franciaco Juli00 comptoe these groups.

The capability of these forces to toke hostile action is limited

by the rather isolated location of Bruille and the character of its

Dopulation. Coveriment employees make up the bull of the population

and they are unitely to become a nucleus for hootile activities.

noin forces of the Comundst and ultre-nationaltet groups are located

in other ports of' Brazil. Any large scale denonetrations vould

nocesoltate the tronsportation of largo nunbors of demonotrators into

Erasilie fron outlying crens.

Thoro 10 a possibility of demonstratione

fron the students of the Rational University of Brasilie end from small

Labor oxganizations in other cities. In either ceco, the number of

demonstrators would be snall.

SEGNET

NH 50953 DocId: 32281676 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SEGRET

Since the Drasilion Congrese moots in Brontlia, the whole

politieal gectrum la roprosented there. Anti-Untted Goates speeches

ons ctatemente nzy be expected from manbers of the ultra-nationallet

parties. Although the stetemente vill mdoubtedly receive national

coverege in the Brezilian press, lt 1e probable that the coverge will

be, on balance, favorable to the viait.

3. Cent

Entamte of the Bituation

Although the seeurity forces in iraniita are sonhat tomportenced

and untested in providing protection for visiting dienitertes, the

Chiet of the Federal Police can be expected to do everything possible

to keep the distriet orderly during the President's vialt.

The Police

Chief and his staff are attenytins to gaja nationni recognition for

bão organiention no the prine police force in the country.

Since: the

President'o visit v111 eive the organisation an opportunity to goin

national prestige, corplete cooporation may be expected from the

Police Chief during the visit.

Unless the situstion changes ratically before the end of July, we

do not believe that hootile elonente are cufficiently woll organizel

or ninetous enough to sode ory threat to the Frostdent.

The President w121 probably receive a vaza zoception in Brasilie.

SECRET

IT 50953

DonTA: 32281676

Page 14

---

