# 124-90006-10135

## Page 1

124-90006-10135

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90006-10135

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 100-420590-50

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/12/1964

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

PAULINO SIERRA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32322922

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

MM 100-14102

MIAMI:

SECRET

EXTENSE IM

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will, at the end of sixty days, unless advised

sooner by INS, Miami, check with INS Investigator OTIS WOOD,

INS, Miami, for status of the investigation being conducted

by INS, looking toward revocation of subject's U.

S. citi-

zenship.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Miami is placing instant case in a pending inactive

status for sixty days, since no leads remain outstanding.

No request for permission to examine subject using

olygraph is being submitted at this time because:

1 - Subject is in poor health and is waiting to

enter the hospital for treatment; and,

2 - INS has a case pending in which INS will at-

tempt to prove that subject served in the

Cuban Rebel Army during the period 1959-60,

and did so voluntarily, thereby subjecting

himself to loss of his United States citizen-

ship.

This report is classified Confidential, since it

information

was so classified (CIA report

On March 2, 1964, l

CIA covert,

Miami, advised that a check of CIA files fails to reveal

that CIA has an operational interest in RODRIGUEZ, and

that no information is

available

concerning him subsequent

to CIA reportl

(500%

Original interview of subject in connection with

his association with the Junta of the Government of Cuba in

SECRET

- COVER PAGE -

ITT 50953

DoeTd: 32322422

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIUENIAL

MM

100-14102

investigations, advised that a former employee of a

Cuban Ministry, who is now in the United States, and

who is described by MM T-1 as reliable, furnished in-

formation which originated withl

a Cuban exile. (544)X42

The information concerned activities

about a group which was represented by PAULINO A. SIERRA.

SIERRA was a Cuban exile opposed to the present government.

of FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, Cuban Premier. According to the

source, the SIERRA group was gathering forces for opera-

tions against FIDEL CASTRO. SIERRA, in a meeting in

Coral Gables, Florida, in September, 1963, said that

American businessmen had offered money to help defray

expenses of the group, but that no operations would be

conducted from American 8011(54)C(u)

Among those at the meeting and associated

with the group, was FELIPE RIVERO, who had been connected

meeting, CABANAS reportedly stated that SIERRA had named

GILBERTO RODRIGUEZ, Also known as Captain LEON, to be the

commander of the military forces of the SIERRA-associated

group. RODRIGUEZ was described as a naturalized U. S.

citizen, and as having been arrested by the CASTRO govern-

ment and sentenced to a long term. He was freed in 1963

through the intervention of American lawyer JAMES B. DONOVANC

On October 31, 1963, GILBERTO RODRIGUEZ

FERNANDEZ, 620 N. W. 69th Street, Miami, Florida, furnished

the following information to SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER:

-2-

CONFIDENIIAL

50953 DocId: 32322922 Page 3

---

