# 124-10225-10114

## Page 1

1124-10225-10114|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10225-10114

HQ

105-114543-1ST NR 161.

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/19/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JURE, TRAINING CAMP, GUERRILLA WARFARE,

CLEWISTON, FL AREA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

... '

19.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32299334

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL 8/29/66

SIA HAS NO NE ECTION TO

hALFAG: LA LA IFORMATION

IN THIS DUUMENT. EXCEpt thE

BRACKETS

MK'H

2-6-98

Lites by

SPEMALIG

SP6 Bjapgal

ANSTS 12/18/05

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINCO

HEREIN LO UIOLISSIFIED

EYCOTT THERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

20 1

DizacCor, FBE (2-1065)

SAG, Most (105-8922) (2)

URSUBS; Training or Cubans en Property of

Wetz U. Walsong, Dolls County, Florida

Hay 3: 1964

INETAHAL SECURZZY * CUBA

NEUIBALIZY MATTERS

225-98

CLACCIATATY 5668 SUD/SP

LECLALSIY ON: 25X

Reference

Burenu airtel to lamps and MentiFK)

6/17/64.

On 4/3/04, 101 639-8 adviood

that LuIS

POSARa, in charge of tratning for chojunco Revolu

ARCO JURE

mambone

vialtad Clouleton, Flotide, a com on the south share

of Lake Oteachoboe, there

Chay contacted

the Connisoloner

of Bondry County, M2. CAMPBELL. MAt»

Con"

tho purpose of

opening a training can at the local assport.

Nakk wao coluctene to give pezuloaton

so the Cubang for use

of the cizgore property de Cleatoter;

bocsuse the Federal

Aviation Agency might object.

Ze on disore to parsuade

Contessoner Nut, the Cubans offered to repair

: the

bullalage on the airport proporty and to par

08 tha airport buc

Make objected to tale CAl

According to ME 639-5, JURE, doupite the

obscacles contenting tum at clemeto, more dete

mined to cotablish aona training operctoo ta te

goar fabite.

The source seated that folloing the dim

Busenu (RI)

2 * Tempo

(205-2383) (2M1)

3: 1310001

(2-105-3922)

(1-205-6662 J06)

1/05-114343

NOT RECORDED

416 JUN 24 1964

1964

CONFIDENTLAL

ORIG

FILED IN

ATHT

70953

DocId: 32299334

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

N20 105-3922

contact nath Cominstonor MAl, the neubars of JUBE

procoedod to

en establlehed training chop locatad

sorcshoro botvamn Cloalacon snd Tampo, VLonide, aoouc

80 ml3c0 fron Clevloton:

tho aource tuxtaer tavisse

Chac J0XE had 2 tecns o. 13-20 ma por teas, seody mo

undertato training in zuanciute vartare: Tha 10

atructors vore to bo Cuboso who had bean fn the D.B*

amy; the sounce axso beltevod that 2 or 3 Asarican

natruccore misae be tavorrad (cM)

Alco on 4/8/64, 11 639-5 aortoad chat JuLK

posalbly i2 tha nsma of LJIS POSADA.

The couzdo atated

EIAC MARIO HERIANDSE $

one of the JukE nonboxs vlaiting

aho afore- dsecztbed

gnins.

canp, rolideo ax 7146 &.l

26th Sereet, Mia &

1u)

On 3/25/64, 82c-

XEALZA NLOUDUL, aR oEfIcor

as the Centzal Bink and 12ust Coupony , Mlond, Moridh,

advised shat thare was no account at the badk la tho

nno of Junta Revlurtonria Cubans or Cabaa Revoly-

tlooary Junce, Or JURG.

Bo adviaod LuIs FOSSDA of 1111

1,E+ 34th Avonua: Mlanl; hod eponad e Special Aecont in

i rocord indtestod PCMlDA had sozvod in

the U.Se hzny:

On 6/12/64, 1x- SLONUl uas rocoatoeted, at

thich ttme he nado avallable the nonthly ataconont of

POSADA's account, 04-69-235-2, together with the choets

Locucd by POBADA duaing tho previous mintir tnly 5

chackt had beon desa on the account oning the nonthly

peztod ending 6/4/64, at sistch tine a belance oE $18-50

xomafnod ia tuc

i nocaunE. The chects vsze aade payable

CONFIDENTIAL

ITHT

70953

DooId:32299334 Page 3

---

## Page 4

•308 30X 0022

CONNEMWT

to Daxace (cashed at Chicago» porolbly à crodit card

socount) fa tho mount of 961.06, WILLIAM A. Scruss

for 930; Standare 011 Genpeny fox $36.89; Household

Pinnce of Columbus, Georgie fox $30, and Jnceson Ball

Apaztmence faz: $74,45*

Oa Juno 19, 1966

concacted and inforod of. the lact the traintas

Gin, Nine,

operation in captioned cose aypasred ta invelve JURa.

scaced that whother or noc tho trolning

Involved JURE uas not a nacter of aperational intercet

to hls offtco, and therefore hie oitlce tatezposod no

objocticn to FBl Anvestigacion of the matcar

fu c.Ite

161186

Oa June 29, 3904 HN 639-9 wua zeconenetod,

st nhách time he advisod tus no longer bad cloce as8O-

clacton with Juls at ltanl, and therefore wan untnformed

ao' to the curtent craining oporation by JUNE, hovever,

he belloved that the training comp doscctbed in the

copcion of this cose ie Ldantieal uith the ona he had

seported on 4/8/60(,m)

The Miam Offtee vill Antoviay porsons age0-

clarad tich JULE

Lox infomacion concoring. the militasy

txainlag of JURE la Florida and ja partiouler on the

proporty of Woir W, Milllans in

Poll: County »

Florida,

COMZIDEULIVE

CONFIDENTIAL

HTHT

50953 DOoTd: 32299334

Page 4

---

