# 124-10273-10104

## Page 1

124-10273-10104

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10273-10104

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1640

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SECRETARY OF STATE

TITLE:

DATE: 02/16/1967

PAGES: 102

SUBJECT: CIA, NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC, PICKETING, DEMONSTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

10/30/1998

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

EBF, INC 2 ADMIN PAGE, 3 T/T, 34 MEMO, 5 LTR, 2 LHM, 6 NEWS ARTIC, 8

A/T

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2/19/67

AINTEL

AIRMAIL

TO: *

SAG, JACKSDVILLE

FROM: SAC, JACKSON (165-WJW) (P)

WENDEL RIALUIST;

"his docriment is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissem'.

Its use is limited in canal proceedings. t

IJAR • CaLIlation outside your Committee.

100. J10rn vour Commiice and the content mas not be disclosed to unauthorized persor

nel without the express approvat of the EBl

informant:

On 2/16/67 PCI LOUISE SKELTON, Biloê, Miss. advised

on 2/7/07 above subiccra restatered into the Travel Inn Hotel,

Biloxi. FCI stated that at time of ragintracion ahove subjects

furnished the following information on their notel registration

card:

IRAN

ENDERL

715L QUIS

SENDELL E ELEUEST

MISS

260 Kamal Strect

B. APPROX

Eugene, Oregoa

143

-1942

"1965 Ford, Florida License 8W20164

Employed, U. S. Government"

03-24 105th Stret 1155

Flushings N. Y.

FLUSIANS, H. X: DC B. APPROX

"Self-employed"

19371942

PCT described MELOVEST as a uhite male,

a8e 25-30,

height, 5' 5"

• weight 150 to 160 pounds,

dark hair, brown

eyes, pedius complazion, and subject LENNON an a unite sale,

25-30, height 6*, weight 175 pounds, light brown or sandy

hair, far or light complexion with freckles.

2 - Jacksonville

SEARCHED.

INDEXED ASSA

2

Hew York

Portland

KDJ/6]8-889

1- Bureau 412.62 li

ENCLOSURE

166-94-1

HH 50953 DOrTd: 32199369

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1062 EDITION

GEA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

" NMENT

Memoranaum

DIRECTOR, FBI -

LEGAT, HONG KONG

(80-2)

TRELATIONS WITH (CIA]E)

SECRET

DATE:

3/6/67

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

AELEASE OF CLA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

ЕХСЕРТ. BRACKETS

Im 6-18-97

ReBulet. 2/8/67.

Hong Kong, has (5)

advised

that the situation in Macau has returned to a degree

.of normalcy in which covert inquiries can again be handled in

that colony with no more difficulty than before.

This is

submitted for info of Bureau supervisors

handling Chinese investigative matters (5)

92998

ATL INFORMATION CONTAINED

13377750 EXCEPS

WAGRE SHONN OTHERWIGS.

I Laid Airiketed in

lussifeid berlion

ater il/26

9803 22я/д

# 211,326

5/1492

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-540

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

підем

1125/

Sired br

1566K-520/1

Declass

нол:

ADR

Bureau

•1. - Foreign Liaison)

Hong Kong ](8) (u)

REC 10

42-80250-

(4)

EX-114

NO MAR 13 1967

This dociment is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is limitod to offinal proceedings. by

nation outside your Committee.

your Committce and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approviciof the EBl

2 19611,21

AAR 211Se

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

45-07

NH 50953 DocId: 32199369 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

FROM

OPTIONAL PORTINO, 10i Ô

3010-108

AAAY PAI EDITION

G$A GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOT

NMENT

SECRET

Memorandum

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

NIo Rosen

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

DATE: March 15, 1967

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION - Mr. Rosen

to Lo shroder

NT o

Malley

Mr o

Shroder

Mr •

Thompson

• Mx •

Sullivan

Mx•

Trotter

Tolson

DeLoach .

Mohi an

Wick

Caspor

Callahan

Contad -...

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Solest

SUBJECT:

COMMUNIST PARTY

OF

6-35-73-90

VENGEELA JFK)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)!

INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA

net.

without

the

your Committce

nation

REDNAPING

T. 1. 38 4)

N

outside

document

This relates to information received from CIA in-

dicating the possibility that thi Communist Party er Venezuela

rav attempt to kidnap

the child ofa CIA

employee

express

and the

2102170:

No investigation is being conducted by

and appro-(S

ry

priate

dissemination has previously been made.

approval

content

Committee.

prepared

At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA, finger

prints and photographs have

been obtained and were furnished

Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman Of CIA on 3/10/67.

material

is being made part of this ile for possible use in the

of

mon

the

I's aise

response

event of a kidnaping.

Photocraphs and fingerprints are of the

following individuals:

720€

ГВІ

disclosed to

Imital in offrial

to you?" request and is

ACTION:

vicuthorized person

proceedings by

not,

lency into chasifiel

PITA

(5)

This matter

been coordinated

with 3ed/ dent (ent14326, 5/4/92

cation Division and it is recommended that

this memo and

attachmentri be sent directly to sa Carl Volker,

Room 4725, IB,

in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and

filede

Enclosure

PENCLOSUKE ATTACHED".

ST-114

REC 33

for dissemi-

C2.401304563

"EDT:em?

(7)

700

MAR 20 1067

Fingerpant of freing dified

and futilen

Helent Your

за!

IT 50953

DoCT: 32199369

Page 4

HECTS 16 T

MANGYTO LICENT

9/25/95

assmied by

destined

Declassily on: OADR STK SECRET

---

## Page 5

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY IPOR EDITION

5010-106.

OSAGEN. REGENO. 37

UNITED STATES GC ..RNMEN1

SECRET

Tolson

Zanton:

Memorandum

TO

ALL INFORKATION CONTAINED

:Mr. Wo C. Sullivan

MORSIN IGUNCIASSTPIED EXCEPT

Classiled

+ 5668-540

MERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

Declassify on: 04D

DATE:

3/15/67

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel w

1

- Mr. DeLoach

Troller

FROM

.:D. J. Brennan, Jr.

1

- Mr. SUlGAVIAS NO OBJECTION TO

• Mr. BrabatASSIFICATIOnAND/OR,

SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

LiaisonRELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATION

AGENCY (CIA)

nel without the

your Commatese

SOURCE

- Mr. PaTINCTHIS DOCUMENT, 5M;

developments in the case?

6-18-97

document

captioned

Director

Bureau file 134/9824, the LS

and nore we are telling CIA

about our domestic operations and always to our detriment.

I want this trend stopped. H. "

(A separate memorandúm is

express approval

your Committee.

is prepared

being subnitted concerning a new development in the afore- l

mentioned case).

RiVe

On 3/15/67, the Liaison Agent met with Richard

content may not

Coul

Helms, Director, CIA, and took the opportunity to review

the status of relations between FBI and CIA. It was

response

felt that this was an opportune time to do

so in view of

the Director's concern as expressed above.

Helms stated that he personally was pleased with

relations

besween the two Agencies.

He stated that sometimes

be disclosed

limited to

your request and

he is irked or disturbed when people outside and inside of

the Government ask the question "How are you getting along

with the FBI?"

He indicated that this question is frequently

asked by members of Congress.

Heins stated that he

A$C)

religiously has followed a practice of lucidly and firmly

to unauthorized person-

advising such people that relations are excellent.

He -

stated that he personally believed that this was true.

proceedings by:

not for dissemi-

The Liaison Agent commented that working relations

are good, but there was an area which might not be getting

proper attention.

The Agent stated that there was reason

to be concerned

regarding effective coordination on those

83/3

cases which are of interest to both FBI, and CIA because there

appeared to be developing an atmospbere where people in both

Agencies felt that there was now wide-open liberty to conduct

operations and activities of a joint nature. The Agent

stated that he wished to emphasize that such an atmosphere

875-9995 189345STO

XSZ NO MISSIOSA

cannot exist and that Mr. Hoover would never condone any

trend in this direction. The Agent commented that work in

this area had to be

very efficiently coordinated and that

we

in the Bureau were closely scrutinizing each situation as

1t

develops where both Agencies had ar interest.

The Agent

suggested that Mr. Helms might desire to alert appropriate

subordinates in the Agency on this point. 2704/52

SJP: rab

REC 51

CONTINUED OVE

MAI

(6) N

2÷1507

SECRET

$ MAR 20

0e2eR4ST

SENT

ITT 50953

DooTd: 32199369

Page 5

---

## Page 6

; FD-36 (FOV. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

3/17/67

Transmit the following in

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

(Type in plaintext or code)

DECLASSIFICATION AMD/OR

Via

AIRTEL

PELEASE OF CA IRFORMATION

(Priority)

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

бат 614597

TO :

DIRECTOR, PEX 60S-80750) pe

SISTER

-30-97

Sit 3049)

SAC, NTO (66-3896)

0. 50700

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES

your Committee

espress approval of the FBI.

and the content

nation outside your Committee.

his document is prepared

man not

I'3 use 28

in response to

he disolood do me

limitod: to official:

vsea

person

proceedings

your request and is not for dissemi-

-Source

On 3/15/67, PSI MIIL R. SVEILIS, the late nignt

desk editor, United Press International, Washingion, D. C.)

who has furnished reliable information in the past, sid

that he wished to advise

this office that he overheard

comments indicating that CIA had contributed at least one

million dollars to the National Council of Churches.

He

also advised that he understood that the CIA maintains a

"saîe house at the Airle House, Warrenton, Virginia."

He

was questioned specifically about the source of the

"above

information and indicated that he believed that he heard

this information from individuals connected with the news

media but he could not recall the exact identity of these

individuals.

He indicated that he got the impression

that this information was comnon knowledge in the news

field.

The Bureau may wish to advise CIA by appropriate

channels concerning the information tirt the CIA had:

allegedly contributed money to

the National Council of

•Churches and maintains a

"safe house'' at farrenton,

Virginia.

UnA

This information was not out in LaM form

becruse of its general character and because the PSI

was unable to recall his source of this information

or ven the

information came to his attention.

The PSI requested that his identity be protected.?

Bur cau

REC-35

62 807545652

2

(I-134-7219 Sub A) (SVEILIS) Some

PAT: mfd

(5)

CIA a

17 1307

dA INTEL:

Approved:

Sent

Perr

Special Agent in Charge

7 50953 DorTA: 32199369

Page 6

---

## Page 7

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

OPTIONAL FORM

NO, 10

1010-106

#AT. 1883E01110N

GSA. GEN.

REG.

NO. 21

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIALC

shed

Tolson

DeLoach.

MR. J. P. MOHR

DATE:

3/24/67

Callahan

fascenade

Felt -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

MR. I. W. CONRAD

REQUEST FOR TOUR OF LABORATORY

BY TECHNICAL PERSONNEL OF

@ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

1.194

Lon Thomas, Document Examiner for CIA

called this afternoon

to inquire if a tour could be arranged through the FBI Laboratory for himself

and two of his co-workers,* Mr. Joseph Hall and

They have (C

no specific problems, but merely wish to visit our facilities riefly.

Accordingly, tentative arrangements have been made for the requested tour at

1p. p.m., March 29, 1967.

CLASSIED BY US 548 68 0

ACTION:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Unless advised to the contrary, the tour will be conduced a equested.

is unclears.

9803-Rad Gre7211,320

5/14/92:

1-Mr. Wick (Att: Tour Room)

1-Mr. W. C. Sullivan (Att: Mr.

S. Papich)

1-Mr. Conrad

(4) IWC:dmg

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TOR

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

EXCEpT FOR thE bRAckETS

Jm 6-25-97

ALt: XNFORMATIOR CORTATITO

SENNION I6 UNQUASSY DIDO

MIAONE SHOSTS 03HZA8X 18

form

deal 3/23/07

Declassity

CAN (SFK)

62-10150-4567

ba..

18 MAR 3 1 1967

CONFIDENTIAL

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Commitice.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

59 APR 10198 pithout the express approval of the EBL

NH 50953 DocId: 32199369 Page 7

---

## Page 8

¡OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10:

OSA GEN. REG, NO. 27

MoCONFIDEMTIAL

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT WIF

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Do. Jo

Brennan,

DATE:

FROM

W. 0. Cregar

4/4/67

WHERAL

SUBJECT

CEVIRAL IMPLE CENCE AGENCY (GIA)C

ALIEN INTERVIEW REQUESTS

Tolsen

DeLoach -

Mohr

Wick

Casper i

Callahan w

Conrod

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Seatt

Re memorandum

cotter to sulLivan dated. 3/20/07

which instructed the Liaison Agentlto advise appropriate for

CIA representatives of the change in handing alien Inter

view requests at the Bureau:

(c)

On 3/31/67, the Liaison Agent advised

of the change in handlingalien interview requests LC

at FBI Headquarters®

was advised that the overall

coordination for handling these requests would be handled

by the Bureau's Name Check Section under the coordination

of Special Agent J. W. Brown.

Inasmuch as CIA occasionally. makes a telephonic

request when expedite matters are involved, the Liaison

Agent obtained the names of

and

as the persons who would call Special Agent Brown in the

event an expedite matter is involved. CIA is well aware

that the use of this telephonic request should be held to

a minimum and used only at times when time is of the

essence and the matter is of sufficient importance to

deviate from the normal request procedures (C

lassificatin per

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED

ACTION:

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP!

WHEK SHOWN OTHERWISE.

9803-102/ClA 11,306

The above is directed to the Name Check Section

for their information and attention

1

1

classier ty 5668520e

I11

- Mr. Scatterday (J.W. Brown)

Mr• Cotter

Liaison

Mr •

Papich

Mr o

Cregar

woC rab Lat

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committes.

Is rise is limited to official proceedings hu

your Committce and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the EBla

CONFIDENTIA:

Declassily on: GADR

TAK)

REC 47 6 2 280720

457/

APR: Z 1967

56APR 1719671

7 50953 DorTA: 32199369

Page 8

---

