# 124-90139-10161

## Page 1

124-90139-10161

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90139-10161

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

NY

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

08/22/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId: 32338034

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JoD. Dononue

Nasca

SAC, New York

(934-5606)

REC- 87

Director, FBIG

SECRE N

6-14-88

SUS JISR

CLASSIFIEN BY 5668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

NY 3248-PSI

IS - GUBA

Classifies

(ПК)

Oliv

CADR

211324

For your information.

CIA on 8/16/61 advised that

on occasion CIA has utilised PST

Eunis material

Be alert for possible conflict of interest between

Bureau and CIA and,

if CIA's occasional use of subject in

any way conflicts with Bureau's interest, immediately

furnish full details and your comments, observations, and

recommendations.

During contacts with PSI, endeavor to determine,

without revealing the above CIA information, whether he is in

contact with any other agency. In this connection,

, PSI has

been connected with MRP which was of operational interest to

CIAO

It is possible ast,

actually doing work for CIA without knowing it since

A his activity tor the e noas

frequently operated in organizations, such as uRP, through

cutouts.

Classie y 5dS-Spede

VHN: dcr

(5)

Declassify on: BRIDE EF

NOTE:

Airlines, New York. He has been associated with MRI, anti-Castro

organization, and has furnished New York with information

concerning the ure and Cubana Airlines, including the manifests

of Cubana Airlines. Investigation of subject's background has

been favorable.

5203342

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ATT, IATORMATTON CONTATNED

i.1.

DECLASSIECATON AND/OR,

PELFARE ATA COMRADION

Tolson

Belmont

WHERE SOGYN OTHERMISE

MAILED 8

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

AUG 2 1 1961

Evans

Malone

COMM-FBI

Rosen

Sullivan

Tovel

Trotter -

Tele. Room -•

Ingram

Gandy.

MAIL ROOM

KP 5-11-98

SECREI

TELETYPE UNIT

HW 50953 DocId: 32338034 Page 2

---

