# 124-90137-10357

## Page 1

124-90137-10357

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10357

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO : DOS

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 08/16/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

HENRYK IGNACY JANIKOWSKI.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

V9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32337591 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFCAZION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR bRACKETS

16 AUG 1963

KP 5-18-98

Deputy Assistant Secretary 3oa-1

Department of State

security

5468520

Classifter

Phy

23A00

FROM:

Deputy Director, Plans

FBIAdm

SUBJECT:

JANIKOWSKI, Henryk Ignacy

DOB:

4 Sept. 1921

POB:

Wiele, Bydogoszcz, Poland

- 105-7-250

2.8626

1. Reference is made to the name check request, dated

18 June 1963,

subject as above, whose

name

you desired checked

w, against

-the filos of this office.

The files contain the

following information concerning

Subject.

2.

Accordino to a renort dated 23 March 1961

the Bremer Bank in Bremen 5)

germany, reported that they had received a check Ior ones

thousand dollars from one Eduardo Espinosa PRIETO of the

105-24643

I, Bremen Munthe, West Germany.

On the basis of this infermation, SCHOTT was inter-

rogated

on 21 November 1961 for (S

possible intelligence involvement.

During the interrogation,

SCHOTT provided the following information concerning-Subject:

SCHOTT first becane acquainted vili Subject in 1940 when he

resided in Subject's home in Gerany.

Subject, who had moved

to Poland, wrote to schorT

in 1097 and asked him to buy used

cars and ship them to him.

Supacos transnitted to SCHOTT

dollars and dollar checks for purcuasing the cars via an

unknown Polish sailor.

Subject sold SCUOTT that he had obtained

the money on the black market and from exhibitors at the Poznan

Fair.

SCHOTT believed that Subject obtained the money from

Poles who had

relatives in the United States. During a visit

to Belgium in 1957, Subject purchased severel second-hand taxis

and cars for shipment to Poland.

Subject visited SChort in

late 1957 and purchased a Renault to take

back withhim to Poland.

for the purpose of avoiding the custons

Jasy on the car, SCHOTT

gave subject a statement to the effect

he was

FBJ INTO

7-4-98

105-21 64221ve.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLIKSR

DECLAGGIT

79

(JFK)

USEONE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

commed irm culamatic

- lamarchie and

declassificallon

SEP F 1863

ORIGINAL

HW 50953 DocId:32337591 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN -CISSEM

In 1959 SCHOTT visited Subject in Gdansk, Poland. Subject

told ScHoTT that he could obtain dollars

"an employee

of an embassy" which he would send to SCHOTT for desposit

in his account at the

oner Bank, subject obtained the

dollars for zlotys at the black market exchange rate. SCHOTT's

wife, who was also intetrogated, stated that checks arrived

by nail from an employee of the Mexican Embassy In Warsaw,

Poland, which hor husband deposited in Subject's account.

a letter from Mexican Ambassador in Warsaw, Eduardo ESPINOSA

I PRintos accompanying a check for one thousand dollars for &

deposit to the account of Erich SchOtT.

Subjoct told SCHOrT

that in 1950 his mald had reportod to the Polish authorities

that he had dollars in his house. As far as SCHOTT knew,

Subject was investigated but was

never sentenced. On 24

June

1961, Subject again visited SCHOTT and from Germany went to

Zelzate, Belgiu,

to settle a debt from automobile buying

operations in 1957.

Subject visited his sistor in Paris,

France, and returned with her to Bremen in a new Peugot which

he had

bought in Holland' in his sister's name.

Subject then

shipped the car to Poland.

4 According to

evidence

was uncovered that would indicate SCHOTT was Involved in

intelligence activities.

CSCI-3/777,473

Encl. I name check

CC:

Federal Bureau of Investigation

GROUP 1

Excluded from automet:

dewagrading and

declassiflemica

T9403E

NW 50953

DooId: 32337591 Page 3

---

