# 124-10191-10061 62-mi-1835 1 thru 3

## Page 1

VZ CZ CH QO 05 3

RR MI

DE HQ

08532131558

ZNR UUUUU

R D1143 1Z AUG 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI (62- 117290)

TO FBI MILWAUKEE ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

BUDED AUGUST 8, 1978.

THE MSCA, WHICH IS INVESIIGATING THE ASSASSINAIIONS OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., BY LETIER DATED

JULY 17, 1978, REQUESTED ACCESS TO ALL BUFILES AND SUBFILES

PERTAINING TO ROBERT FRANKLIN SANDERS, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO IHE MURKIN FILES FROM THE MILWAUKEE FIELD OFFICE.

THE LETTER NOTED THAT SANDERS IS REFERENCED IN THE BUREAU

MURKIN FILE 44-38861-4669.

BUFILES REFLECI THAT SERIAL 4699 IS AN AIRTEL FROM

CHARLOTTE TO BUREAU DATED JULY 17, 1968, AND CAPTIONED "MURKIN".

A COPY OF THIS AIRTEL WAS ALSO SENT TO MILWAUKEE, FIELD

OFFICE FILE 44-388. THE REFERENCED COMMUNICATIONS IN THIS

621835-

197- Sub-2

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED E

tuScanda

AUG 2

FBI - MILWAUKLE

---

## Page 2

PAGE IWO DE HQ O053 UNCLAS

AIRIEL EXPLAINED HSCA'S INTEREST IN SANDERS.

SANDERS WAS BORN NOVEMBER 18, 1927, AT LENOIR, NORIH

CAROL INA.

IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUESI, MILWAUKEE SHOULD REVIEW

INDICES TO IDENTIFY ALL RETRIEVABLE INFORMATION IDENTIFIABLE

WITH SANDERS AND FURNISH FBI HEADQUARTERS (FBIHQ) TWO LEGIBLE

COPIES OF EACH SERIAL.

ALL MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER AIRIEL TO FBIHQ,

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENI

DIVISION.

BT

0D53

N NN N

---

## Page 3

8/4/78

AIR MAIL

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM : SAC, MILWAUKEE (62-1835) (RUC)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA);

BUDED: 8/8/78

Re Butel to Milwaukee, dated 8/1/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies each

of the following:

Milwaukee airtel to Bureau, dated

Milwaukee memo of

captioned "MURKIN" (MI 44-388-380).

For information of the Bureau, a review of

Milwaukee indices did not reflect any identifiable

information with ROBERT FRANKLIN SANDERS, DPOB 11/18/27,

Lenoir, North Carolina.

A review of MI 44-388, captioned "MURKIN" from

questioned serial, Charlotte airtel to Bureau on 7/17/68,

only reflected two communications where ROBERT FRANKLIN

SANDERS'

name was mentioned.

These conmunications are

being furnished as enclosures.

2 - Bureau (Encs. 4) (RM)

(1 - Milwaukee

(3)

La is fa

SEARCHED

---

## Page 4

indices beerch: Slip

PD-:0 (ror. 3-23-71)

Dote

TO: CHIEF CLERK

Subject

Sociel Security Account *

ROBERT FRANKLIN SANDERS

Aliases

Modiees

Exaci Spelling

X/All Rulerences

Main: Subversive Case Flies Unly

¡subversive References Only

File & Sertal Number

ROBERT FRANKLIN SANDERS

Sirth

Birthplaco

Ra

11/18/27 Lenoir, North

Carolina

Mcin Criminal Case Files Oniy

Restrist to locolity of

¡Criminal Fieferences Only

Main Subveralve (if no Main, Mist ail Subverrive Frierences)

¿Main Criminal (if no Main, list all Criminal Peferencos)

Remarks

File & Seriel Number

Fiemorie

87-9035%

Destroyed

Sex

Male

- Eemale

ROBERT SANDERS

87-10265%

87-9287%

87-8472%

87-8855%

87-8470*

87-9035*

105-337-3010

Unsub, aka Robert

Sanders (NI)

Destroyed

Unavailable reference

Destroyed

Unsub, aka Robert

Sanders.

(NI)

Destroyed

(Transferred to

(NI)

157-1207) DOB: 6/26/23

- POB:Tribbetted, Miss.

BOB SANDERS

91-2420*

88-1667%

26-8768%

Destroyed

Destroyed

Destroyed

ELSUR CHECK -

SECURITY & CRIMINAL

. - NO RECORD

Requested by

Squad

Extension

File No.

SA SWANDA

Searched hy

Lorraine

_8/1/78

(date)

Consolidated by

102-1835

420160

INDEXCO

FILED

1978

Revlewed by

1 - Identical

NI

- Not Identical

Lorraine

(date)

8/1/78

ida'e)

File Review Symbols

Not identifichie

U: Unavaliable reference

$GRO. 1972-478-9181

---

## Page 5

FD-350 (Rev. 10-19-77)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Assassination Panel Accused of Spying

Washington Post, UPI, AP

Vashington, D.C. - Thi

loûse Assassinations Com

mittee suddenly began inves

tigiting itself Tuesday in the

face of

accusations. that ar

undercover agent it recruited

on Jerry Ray,

EAZ7

counsel, G

gations were serious and sai

athey

would

examine. But he tuse gh

even to

len to sent the der the

committee had any undercov-

er agents.

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.

A-4

MILWAUKEE JOURNAL

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

Date: 8/9/78

Edition: LATEST

Title:

Character

0 62-1835-5

Classification:

Submitting Office: MILWAUKFE

SEARCHED__

_INDEXED.

SERIALIZED SO FILEDA

AUG 1 n 1978

FBI/DOJ

---

