# 124-10222-10151

## Page 1

124-10222-10151

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10151

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4133-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

CIA

CIA

TITLE : :

DATE: 07/17/1964

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

MRR, VENEZUELAN BRANCH, CUBAN EXILE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

49.1

NW 50953 DocId: 32298375 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/3/94 BY

SPSmAR

4

3

INFORMON

Rt

DIATE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AC

This material contains taformation añecting the Natlonal Defense of the United etites witbia the meaning of the Espiounge train

18, U.3.0, Secs, 193 and 704, the transmission or revelation of which in any maroar to an unauthorized person is prohibited i

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic

REFORT NO.

CS-311/00715-64

SUBJECT

Activity. and Plans of thes

Movimiento de. Recuperacion

• RevolucionariaK(MRR)

DATE DISTR.

17 July 1964

NO. PAGES

I

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO,

PLACE B

DATE ACQ

• 15 June 1964

6 July 1964)

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

FIELD REPORT NO.

OEL -38450

APPRAISAL OF

CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

lable, with good

Tom

a regular

source, probably

contacts

in the MR.

1.

On 15 June 1964 a member of the Venezuelan Branch of the Movi-

miento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MRR, Movement for Revo-

lutionary Recovery) claimed that the MRR has no operational

base In Venezuela and does not intend to establish one.

The

MRR maintains an office in the Dominican Republic and is

believed to have facilities for using that territory ae Man,

occasional staging point for attacks against. Cuba.

however,

does not have a permanent base or training camp in

the Dominican Republic.

The Dominican Government has little

interest in supporting Cuban exile activities at the present

time.

2.

No large-scale exile operations against Cuba by the MRR will

take place until after the November

1964 elections in the

United States.

The MRR claims that this decision is based on

at least six months of preparation will be re- c

quired before

internal conditions in Cuba will be favorable

that the decision does not imply close connivance between

the MRR and the United States Administration.

copies made

for review at FBIHQ by

HSCA 3 • 14:78

CIA HAS 10106.26110 %6

DEGLARSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE Or SIA TORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT ExCEpt BRACKETS

JM 1-26-98

S-E-C-R-E-T

mKH 2-6-98 NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

#I DIA

ARMY

SED/SR 3-3-98 (FX) sos

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO. #

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#**)

97-4133-112

18 AUG # 1964

OCR

FBI

12

INFORMATION

REP

ORT

INFORMATION

Nat, panel sor,

OL

SAKER EMORIGINAL-RETAIN

97-4633

IT 50953

DoCT: 32298375

Page 2

---

