# 124-10157-10021

## Page 1

1124-10157-10021|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/18/20

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10157-10021

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82555-384

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/29/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, ALLEGED PRESENCE IN MX 9/18/63

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

N9.1

HH 52333 DooId: 32164996

Page 1

---

## Page 2

.5-17-03)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668500/GeL

DECLASSIFY ON:

2K DECODEDICOPY

(JFK)

AIRGRAM

SIA HAS NO ORE CABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

104 43(K418/47)

URGENT

GENT 1-23-030 A bORRET

11-29-63 CONt

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITO ROOTS, LOriDITAL ALL

reta

chaseme

Exempt Iron

Baser Declassification Froliaite 7blak

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Rosent 213

Sullivan.

Tavel

Trotter w

Tele. Room

- Homes .

Gandy

BUFILE 105-8255

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD, IS-R.

REMYCAB NOVEMBER 28 LAST UNCA!

IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF AUTHORIZATION CIA HERE

AIL INSOEMATION OORTAINED

MADE GILBERTO ALVARADO UGARIE, AVAILABLE TO MEXICAN MINISTRI

OF GOBERNACIÓN (INTERÍOR) YESTERDAY AFTERNOON. ALVARADO

PRESENTLY IN CUSTODY OF MEXICAN AUTHORITIES AND BEING

HEARTH IONICTI

INTERROGATED. HE APPARENTLY HAS STUCK TO HIS STORY UP UNTIL

NOW BUT INTERROGATION CONTINUING.

•CIA ADVISES THAT LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF

EZ0272

GOBERNACION, COMMENTED THAT HE FOUND ALVARADO'S STORY

S"FASCINATING,

U..:

SILVIA DURAN RELEASED BY MEXICANS 6 PM YESTERDAY BUT

REPORTEDLY CONTINUES TO BE UNDER HEAVY SURVEILLANCE AND SUBJECT

TO BEING ARRESTED. RESULTS OF HER INTERROGATION NOT YET

RECEIVED BUT UNDERSTOOD SHE GAVE NO NEW INFORMATION.

PRESS HERE ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT MEXICAN GOVERNMENT HAD

REJECTED CUBAN DIPLOMATIC NOTE WHICH PROTESTED ARREST OF DURAN

BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES ON NOVEMBER 23. LAST, REJECTION STATED

TO BE BASED ON NATURE OF LANGUAGE ÜSED BY CUBANS IN THEIR NOTE JU

STATION CHIEF ADVISED TODAY. THAT

Classilied

Deciessite

3RD CC: MR

REC- 56

5I6S591

EX-105

25538617

1a(0v01)

!.

colgon noga

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

is suggested that it be suitably

Pention

7-28-83

1TH 52333 DoCTA: 32164996

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-17-631

DECODED COPY

LXXCABLEGRAM

RADIO

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

• Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

J AIRGRAM

TELETYPE

(5)

CONFIVENTIAL

CATARADE 2, FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY,

FRANKLYN aJ

OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, IS ARRIVING

MEXICO CITY TODAY TO BE AVAILABLE TO ASSIST MEXICANS

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO IF SUCH ASSISTANCE DESIRED.

THIS MORNING AMBASSADOR MANN EXPRESSED TO US HIS GREAT

PLEASURE ON AUTHORIZATION GIVENSEOR CIANTO MAKE ALVARADO

44)

AVAILABLE TO MEXICANS. HE STATED HE FELT THIS WAS ONLY WAY

TO RESOLVE QUESTION OF VERACITY OF ALVARADO'S STORY.

(a)

IN VIEW OF FACT THAT ALVARADO'S INTERROGATION BY MEXICANS

IS CONTINUING IT IS BELIEVED THAT SUBMISSION OF DETAILED MEMO

COVERING INVESTIGATION TO DATE IN MEXICO SHOULD BE HELD IN

ABEYANCE UNTIL FINAL RESULTS OF INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO

AVAILABLE

UACB THIS WILL BE DONE.

RECEIVED;

CLARK D. ANDERSON

7:49 PM

JWF

CONFIDENTIAN,

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NH 52333

DooId: 32164996 Page 3

---

