# 124-10208-10438

## Page 1

124-10208-10438

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10438

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1396-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

LARSON, ROLF L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/19/1955

7

EB, APPREHENDED, MX IMMIGRATION AUTHORITIES,

CHARGES, ILLEGAL ENTRY, BOND VIOLATION, FRAUD,

ESCAPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

12

DocId: 32292162 Page 1

---

## Page 2

08

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIONRE

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT BUREAU

SECRET

REPORT MADE AT

MEXICO, D. F.

DATE WHEN

MADE

1/19/55

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADI

11/27,28,30

154;1/11/55

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

ROLE D6 LARSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

Th

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLE

EDWARD BROWDER, JR., with aliases

REGISTRATION ACT

10-95

Classified

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Declassify on: OAt

(SEK)

MENCIN IS UNGHASGIFIED

subject was rearrested or November 28, =954, by Mexicar In-

migration authorities and is being held for possible depor-

tation on the basis of his illegal entry and presence in

Mexico.

BROWDER claims to have participated in the recent.

Guatemalan revolution on the side of Colonel CASTILLO ARMAS

and to have been involved in the organization of a revolu-

tion against the

FIGUERES FERRER.

APPROPTIATE ACENO

SA SONMAT

STAS SANITIZE

3/18/97

AND FINED OFFIOSS

ADVISED BY ROWEING

SZTP(S) 07.

eit.

lee-meanice

DATE

AGENGY C/A:/State

REQ. REC'D

DATE FORW.

HOW FORW

2-2-55

BY RDC/ y

COPIES DESTROYED

R207 AUG .

"85, 1961

_copies made

for review at TBIaQ by

NSCA Reguest i 10/28

6/3/55

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMED

HEREIN IS UNQLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

136 PMA

DECLASSIFIED BY

MAY 1 1377

CLASSIFIED BY 5668S0/GCL

DECLA

FURY ON. DEY

05

JERS

712/91

yur

FORWARDS!

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

SIES

LORES OF THIEREPORT

7 - Bureau 42-1396)

3 39 61.21

$ 8 1055

Americantumbassy

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE

SPACES

17

RECORDED - 76.

INDEXED - 76

EN 121

(circulation)

1. - Mexico City (97-12)

5. 3 FEB - 319557-L

TO WHICH LOANED.

PROPERTY, OF FBI-THIS REPORT IS LOAMED TO YOU BY THE FBI, AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS CONTENTS ARE TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE, THE AGEM CY

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-50255 87

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ride

12 /5/47

CLAS

SIRED BY 566

DECLASSIFY ON: 251

CONGREA

United States Department of Juatice

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Hederal Bureau of Inuestigation

DECLA SIRRATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SECRET

1-10-95

IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANITIZED

amB 2/12/97

Classified ly

Declassify ou

CA

January 19, 1955

Re:

EDWARD

BROWDER, JR., with aliases

ALL INFOAMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

I. BASES FOR INVESTIGATION

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

This investigation is predicated on information re-

ceived from T-l, of known reliability, to the effect that Sub-

ject EDWARD BROWDER, JR., had been arrested by agents of the

Mexican Ministry Of

Government (Immigration) on November 20,

lyblo It was stated that the arrest had taken place in Mexic

at Calle Alvaro Obregon #51-A,

that address being a small

boarding house in which Subject had been residing for several

days as an alleged

student of Mexico City College.

II. STATUS OF SUBJECT IN MEXICO

T-1 advised that Subject was being held by Mexican

Immigration authorities for illegal entry to and residence in

Mexico since he claimed to have left Mexico subsequent to his.

earlier escape from the Department of Immigration Lockup on

June 16, 1954. It was also mentioned by I-l that chärges could

conceivably be placed against the subject for violation of bond

in connection with a previous arrest in Mexico on a charge of

"fraud" and also for escape.

It was the opinion of It, how-

ever,

that

the Mexican Immigration Department might prefer to

deport Subject rather than press criminal charges against him

as a result of which he would probably have to serve a prison

sentence in the penitentiary of the Federal District.

It was advised by I-2, of known reliability, that Sub-

ject was endeavoring to obtain

funds from his acquaintance and

alleged co-revolutionary, ROSENDOKARGUELLO, JR., with which to .

finance his own "voluntary departure" from Mexico in order to

avoid formal deportation proceedings which might render his pos-

sible return to Mexico more difficult.

Subject stated to I-2

that he preferred not to be deported to the United States but

that he hoped he might be sent to Guatemala where he claimed

to have "friends."

2-1396-17

I-1 advised that as of January 12, 1955;

Subject

waS

still detained by Immigration authorities and that in view of

his failure to provide funds for a "voluntary departure,

" he

probably would be deported by the Mexican Government in the

not too distant future.

-1-19

SECRETS®

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRED

III.

ACTIVITIES OF SUBJECT

The following narrative of Subject's recent activities

in Mexico and Central America

was furnished by him to I-1 and T-2;

however, it was the opinion of T-l that Subject exaggerates

greatly

and that he appears to be either a pathological liar or

to be slightly mentally deranged.

BROWDER claimed that following his escape in Mexico

in June, 1954, he had made his way to Costa Rica and

Guatemala

CASTILLO ARMAS still oes him a substantial sum of money which

he claimed to be unable to pay immediately because of the com-

plete depletion of the Guatemalan Treasury by the deposed ARBENZ

Government.

BROWDER also stated very confidentially that he had

been contacted by leaders of a group which was organizing a revo-

lutionary attempt against the regime of Costa Rican President

JOSE FIGUERES FERRER and that he had been requested to obtain

arms, equipment and to do staff work in connection with that

revolution.

reliability,

but who has furnished accurate information in the

and who is known to be closely associated with Costa Rican

revolutionary leaders, advised categorically that the group had

no confidence whatsoever in BROWDER and that under no circum-

stances would they entrust him with funds or responsibility of

any kind in connection with a possible revolutionary attempt

against FIGUERES.

T-l advised that at the time of his arrest, BROWDER

had in his possession copies of several letters from one CHUCK

TAYLOR relating to the possible sale of a "C-47 airplane."

this connection, BROWDER stated TAYLOR is an airlines pilot whom

he had known when they were both flying for the Royal Airforce

during World War II and that he had intended to effect the sale

of a C-47 transport airplane which he claimed to "have access

to" in Nicaragua.

2-1396-17

Also in Subject's possession at the time of his ap-

prehension was

a copy of a telegram from "Vision" magazine in

New York offering him a contract to write articles for that

SECRETI

508-10138

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET.

magazine at a very nominal sum.

hoped to write some articles concerning his

"revolutionary ac-

tivities and the Costa Rican Revolution" in order to earn some

money but that the sum offered by the magazine had been so

meager that he had not considered it worth while..

NOLOCALiTy

At the time of his arrest,

- BROWDER was also in posses

sion of a telegram from HENRY

KLUCE dated November 19, 1954, and

stated he had proposed to the owner-

editor of "Time"

with respect therend "Iife" nagazines that he would turnish com-

plete facilities to a reporter and photographer from those maga-

zines to cover

the expected Costa Rican revolution at close range.

He stated that he had been unable to complete arrangements with

LUCE

because of his arrest.

It was advised by I-l that at the time of his detention

the subject had no clothes or personal effects whatsoever, that

he was sleeping on the couch in the boardinghouse because

of his

inability to pay for a room and that he was absolutely destitute.

T-1 expressed the opinion that all of the foregoing "business

ventures!!

as described by BROWDER were merely desperate attempts

by him to obtain advances or downpayments on proffered services

or material even though the possibility of his delivering in con-

nection with any of them was completely negligible.

BROWDER stated that at the time of his arrest he had

been in Mexico City for more than two months and that he had

resided at Calle Asturias #46, Altos, Colonia Alamos, and later

at Calle Tehuantepec #200A, Colonia Roma, prior to moving to .

the Alvaro Obregon address.

I-l stated Subject's former landlady had appeared at

Immigration headquarters in an effort to collect rent and board

which she claimed was due her for Subiect's residence at Calle

2139617

SECRET

508-10N38

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

A copy of this report has been disseminated on a cir-

culation basis to the Embassy and

As the Bureau was advised by airgram dated

1954 Subject was arrested by Mexican authorities on

December L,

the basis

of information furnished them by this office concerning his

whereabouts.

fice from the

data relating to subject's letter to HENRY BLUCE, one ful

text of which was subsequently furnished this office by the

Bureau.

Mexican authorities were advised of subject's where-

advised that

abouts after

he perceived no objection to that procedure as long as the

original source of

connection that Subject's financial

difficulties with his

several landladies could easily have resulted in his denuncia-

tion to Immigration authorities and there is no reason to be-

lieve that he has any idea of the manner in which he was located

by Mexican authorities.

SOURCES:

T-I is the Chief of the Investigative Service

of the Mexican Ministry of Government,

Mr. DEMETRIO FLORES FAGOAGA.

I-2 IS SA ROLE I. LARSON, who interviewed Subject

in the presence of Mexican Immigration

authorities.

T-3 is

MANUEL E. CABALLERO, confidential

source

and Costa Rican revolutionary.

LEAD:

THE MEXICO CITY OFFICE

Ate Mexico, D. F.

21396-17

Will follow and report action of the Mexican Govern-

ment in connection with deportation of subject.

- 4-

SERENA

NH 50953

DooId: 32292162

Page 6

---

## Page 7

738012

REFERENCE:

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE (cont'a)

SECRETI

Mexico City airgram dated December 2, 1954J(0)

30012

- 5 -

SECRETI

21396-17

SO8 1738

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

MAXICO,

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

BONIERO

DATE WHEN

MADE

1/39/55

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

/S: 1/21/55

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

ROLL DE LARSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

RAGESMATOS NOT

2o, 9100 E

tla-95

Classified by.

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Declassify ON: DADR (JFK)

Subjoct us rearrested on lovenber

* 20

1954, bg Nozlean

* Tor

migration authoritios und in being

. beld for poostble

tation on

tho basis of hid

BROWDER alains to

a it in to lavese cooty and pin

depor-

entry and prosonce 13

have participated in the recont

Castonelan revolation on the sido

Coloned CAsTILLO

ARMAS

and to havo been lavolved in the organization

of a vovol

tion against the government of Coote

al cen

President

1038

Fx00EH3A

PERRER

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

IS UNCLASSIFIEO EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

PECIAL AGER

• CHAR

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Asn0z1 ann

996)

Fabassy

(eirotladlony

i = Menico

01 ty

(97-12)

SECRET

PROPERTY OF FBI-THIS REPORT IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI, AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS CONTENTS ARE TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE THE AGENCY

TO WHICH LOANED.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 16-59355-3

NH 50953 DocId: 32292162 Page 8

---

