# 124-90124-10055

## Page 1

124-90124-10055

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10055

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 97-3224-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/11/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MANUEL FUEGO

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32335497

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

MC 97-71

SECRET

(s)

It Is pointed out that CIA in both

Attache, Guatemala City,

through his close contact with It. Colonel JOSE LUIS

AGUILAR DE LEON, who is the confidential source abroad

mentioned In the accompanying repart. Jujand sEr of backers

head of the cIA station, on 220.49

I Managua

Nicaragua, advised on

9-5-62 that Nuns Phe Minatelal entertyise, of General

ANASTASIO

SOMOZA of NIcaragua.

Btated that

PALLAIS

3)He was made available for

contact by

and was subsequently, Interviewed

Ith Managua.

personally has encouraged General SOMOZA lot to have

anything to do with WERBELL, SMITH and associates.

He stated he feels the offer to sell arms and ammunition

and provide mercenaries which was made to the

Guatemalan Government was only

of secondary interest

the CIA Station,

" Guatemala City, advised on

September 10, 1962, that it was ascertained that

the woman who accompanied WERBELL to Managua 18

dUCK LUCHtEN, who owns the Duplex Bullding in

Guatemala City. She returned to Guatemala City

2 or 3, 1962.

advised that when ARTHUR I. SMITH

left Guatemala City

on September 3, 1962, he left as

405 warding ones. 25 onetieut Avenu Suite

405, Washington, D.C.

According to

• told

the manager of the Maya Excelsior Hotel that he had

the clearance of CIA.

(s)|

stated that MIGUELITO YDIGORAS, son

of the President

of Guatemala, advised that neither

WERBELI nOT SMITH had made personal contact with him.

At the request of MIGUELITO YDIGORAS, the Judicial

=2 c

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32335497 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MC 97-71

SECREI

Police put a surveillance on WERBELl and SMITH, which

apparently was rather obvious.

The police also

monitored their telephone conversations. Subsequently.

Advised CIA that

SMITH

had made

one telephone call to MARIO GARCIA KOHLY in Washington,

D.C., and another to a man by the name of DIGGS or BRIGGS

He also made a telephone call to

Handy or Jones and Handy, Marine Architects, Miami,

Florida. SMITH received a telephone call which was

reported as having been from ARNOLD in Washington but

_stated that CIA belleves it was from FRANK

AUSTIN

who he

1n

• Washington,

said is connected with MARIO GARCIA KOHLY

WERBELL

tried to make telephonic contact with

FRANK MARSHALI, Minister of Public Security of Costa

Rica®

*(u)

In telephone calls made just prior to 8-20-62

as

El Salvador.

According tol

ScIA does not believe

the meeting took place in san Salvador as planned.

had previously mentioned on 8-13-62 that when

WERBELL and SMITH first contacted MIGUELITO YDIGORAS

during early August, 1962, they stated they were

waiting for PINEIRO and seemed to think PINEIRO was

someone YDIGORAS would know.

They stated they would

contact-him as soon as PINEIRO arrived.

advised

on 9-70-62 that it had been ascertained that colonel

JOSE PINEIRO PAEZ was apparently the one they were

expeoting.

stated that the telephone conversation

between SMITH,

WERBELI ard the individuals they were

talkins to were apparently rather erythan the ha

obtained little more

Identities

of the Individuals making the calls.

• =3.

SECREA

NH 50953 DocId: 32335497 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MC 97-72

SOURCES

SECREL

T-1 ISNOEL PALLAIS, first cousin of President LUIS

SOMOZA, and General

ANASTASIO SOMOZA Of Nicaragua,

who handles financial enterprises of General SOMOZA&

Located in instant report.

Source concealed as

Managua, Nicaragua.

-3)

CLASSIFICATION

Vas it contains information from

molosed report la classiciod "Confadential"

Jand from an individual who has close

connections with a second

requested the information be regarded as confidentia

/ Both @ CS

STATUS

While this case and also the case on MANUEL

FUEGO, RA - Central America, are being placed in an

RUC status, they will be reopened if any pertinent

Information 1s received.

SEGREE

NH 50953 DocId: 32335497

Page 4

---

