# 124-10169-10005

## Page 1

124-10169-10005

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/18/20

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10169-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82555-879

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

11/30/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MW 32333

DocId: 32169186

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-3 rifer. 4-17-631

_CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA FORMATIOD

IN THIS DOCUMENTS

ECOSEBREbPY

AIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Gale -

Rosel.-

Sullivan?

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NNOLASSIFIED

9803ndd/gl

DADS RidER

Glassified by.

27-83%

clAssi

• TELETYPE

Conside a

VERY URGENT

11-30-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 196 5p0

BUFILE 105-82555

_EE HARVEY OSWALD, IS-R

Мала затиска ноут

"RE"TELEPHONE CONVERSATION WITH ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. C.

SULLIVAN TODAY.I! FOLLOWING

IS IN CONFIRMATION. LA

(LE) EWINSTON

I SCOTT, HEAD

OFT CIA OFFICE HERE, REPORTED THIS

MORNING THATELUIS

HEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION,

HAD ADVISED THAT

ILBERTO ALVARADO UGARTE HAD SIGNED STATEMENT

IN WHICH HE ADMITTED HE

HAD NEVER SEEN OSWALD HERE IN CUBAN

CONSULATE ON SEPTEMBER 18 OR ON ANY OTHER DATE AND THAT HE

HAD NEVER SEEN ANY MONEY PAID TO OSWALD OR ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN

• CONSULATE, HE ALSO ADMITTED THAT HIS STATEMENT TO EFFECT HE

HAD CALLED OUR EMBASSY SEVERAL TIMES IN UNSUCCESSFUL EFFORTS TO

REPORT INFORMATION RE OSWALD WAS FABRICATION AND THAT SUCH CALLS

NEVER MADE.

8(4)

ALLEGED MOTIVE BEHIND ALVARADO'S STORY WAS THAT HE INTENSEL

DISLIKES CASTRO AND HOPED TO PROVOKE UNITED STATES INTO THROWING

CASTRO OUT OF CUBA. DENO INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO INDICATE THAT

NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WAS BEHIND ALVARADO'S FABRICATED STORY. XXPU

SCOTT ADVISED THAT RÉPRESENTATIVE OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE

SERVICE,

BID NOT ACTUALLY PARTICIPATE IN

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO

BUT WAS PRESENT IN ADJOINING ROOM ANEK

X(4)

20110

REG 11

22133

EXEMPT FROI

DAT

0/0/77 Hot

CLASSIFICATION INDECI

#7229

05

1252

124879

22 DEC26 1963 •

66DEC 27.1963

If the intelligence contained in therab

paraphrased in order to protect the Bu

lated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

(over)

7TH 52333 DorId: 32169186

Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-3 GRiev. 4-17-63)

53.8

DECOSEGRCOPY

J AIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAM

D RADIO

• TELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohi —

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale —

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

=

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 196

(5)

ECONSULTED BY MEXICANS. SCOTT SAID

TOLD HIM HE IS

CONVINCED ALVARADO'S STORY WAS FABRICATION (K)

ENTIRE MATTER OF ALVARADO'S ADMISSION TO FABRICATION WAS

FULLY DISCUSSED WITH AMBASSADOR MANN IN LENGTHY SESSION. HE

ACCEPTS FACT THAT STORY WAS FABRICATION BUT CONTINUES TO FEEL

CASTRO MAY HAVE BEEN BEHIND KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. THIS OPINION

IN PART BASED ON TWO PHONE CALLS WHICH OCCURRED BETWEEN PRESIDENT

DORTICOS OF CUBA AND CUBAN AMBASSADOR HERE ON NOVEMBER 26 LAST

IN WHICH DORTICOS REPEATEDLY QUESTIONED AMBASSADOR WITH REGARD

TO WHETHER SILVIA DURAN HAD BEEN INTERROGATED ABOUT MONEY WHEN

SHE WAS ARRESTED BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES NOVEMBER 23 LAST, 200(4)

AMBASSADOR MANN WAS MOST EFFUSIVE IN HIS COMMENTS CONCERNING

DIRECTOR'S COOPERATION IN HAVING SENT KEENAN HERE AND REQUESTED

THAT KEENAN CONVEY PERSONALLY HIS APPRECIATION TO DIRECTOR. HE

STATED HE FEELS THAT WITH ALVARADO'S ADMISSION OF FABRICATION

THERE WOULD APPEAR TO BE NO REASON FOR KEENAN TO REMAIN HERE

ANY LONGER. KEENAN HAS RESERVATIONS TO DEPART MEXICO CITY AT

11 PM TODAY ON EASTERN FLIGHT 304 WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE

AT DULLES AIRPORT IN WASHINGTON AT 6 AM TOMORROW. 4(U)

CLARK D. ANDERSON

RECEIVED:

9:52 PM

EFH

CC-MR. ROSEN

3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN

MICE

03

10S30 W36D.D

If the intelligence contained in the above messa

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryftoes

EGRE

outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

NH 52333 DocId: 32169186 Page 3

---

