# 124-10214-10371

## Page 1

124-10214-10371]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10214-10371

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

97-4546-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/13/1965

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

MR, AKA, ASSOC, JURE, CUBAN EXILE, CASTRO, FIDEL,

MRR, CORRECTION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.l

HH 50953

2

DocId: 32295095

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CECRET!

MM-724-S advised that while in San Juan, Puerto RiCO, in

early January,

1964,

he visited a military

Puerto RICO.

At that time

being given military training by National Guardsmen and reserve officers

of Puerto Rican origin who had served in the Korean War.

Informant

was told that there were a total of about 800 men being trained and that

these men

were not committed to any of the Cuban

exile organizations.

that Manolo Ray had been granted permission to speak

He learned in training, presenting his aims and explaining how he

to the men

intended to liberate Cuba. In This way

Ray was able to obtain the

support oi about 80 exiles for JURE. (X1(V1)

•Cuban Exiles Receiving Military Training in Puerto Rico is the

subject of 105-125665.

105-125665-4

(230)

This reference concerned the effort to determine the identity

of Unsub, aka Engineer Rays (phonetic) (149-2932), who, on 10/22/63

and 10/23/63, telephonically threatened Iberia Airlines in San Juan,

Puerto Rico.

The caller threatened to bomb Iberia aircraft if it was

learned that the Castro regime was confiscating packages carried by

Iberia to Cuba.

Interviews on 10/23/63 of Iberia personnel who were

connected with

the above calls

set out. An interview on 11/1/63 with

Manolo Ray Rivero, who was considered as a suspect was also set out.

In his interview,

Ray denied making the calls

claimed no knowledge

of packages being sent to Cuba on Iberia Airlines and indicated that

he was in complete accordance with Iberia'a position.

149-2932-2 p.B, 1-10

(24,347

An attempt by the Bureau on 1/2/64 to engage Manolo Ray Rivero

in a telephone conversation net with negative results.

• On 1/7/64 Manolo Ray Rivero was engaged in a telephone conver-

sation through a pretext social call made by an SA who

was acquainted

with Ray.

Casimiro De La Torre Pampliega, Iberia Airlines, was unable

to identify the voice of Ray in the above conversation as

the unsub

caller with whom he had talked on 10/23/63.

(continued)

SECRET

-10-

NY 50953

DooTd: 32295095

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECHEL

(continued)

In addition, Luis Roman Sanchez had been reassigned by Iberia

and was unavailable to listen to Ray's voice to determine if he was

the unsub caller on 10/22 and 23/63.

Unsub aka Engineer Rays (phonetic) is the subject of 149-2932.

149-2932-3 p.B,2

(245342

SJ-481-S advised that he had learned on 1/9/64 at a meeting.

of the LSP

(Liga Socialista Puertorriquena - Puerto Rican Socialist

League, (place not given) that Juan Antonio Corretjer, who organize

the LSP, stated that he had been trying to impose a line on al.

independence movements, specifically that they all back the Cuban

Revolution.

Avenue in santurce, Puerto Rico, in approximately Step 25 and recommended

that the building be looked over to see if there was any possibility

of burning it to the ground. Corretjer claimed that Manolo Ray, who

headed Juke, was actually protected by the Governor of Puerto Rico and

64-17532-80 p.3

(20%

Around 1/20/04g according to CIA, Paulino A. Sierra Martinez

(105-121010) 1n10rmed Major Tomas Cabanas

Batista at

the latter's

home

in Coral Gables, fla., that he was preparing some of his young friends

to form an army to be used for the liberation of Cuba and

that he already

had sufficient money to topple Fidel Castro. Sierra directed Cabanas

to begin recruiting people because he was to be head of the army.

Sierras wanted the list of personnel immediately in order to present it

to his group when he returned to Chicago and in order to receive approval

of his plans from the organization.

He also wanted to determine whether

the group would follow Manuel Artime Buesa and Manuel Ray Rivero.

Sierra

stated that he had the financial means to raise more

than either

105-121010-33

19517)

SECRET

-11-

HH 50953

DooId: 32295095

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET.

most to eason reen do ta sta bodie by tao may 3

On 1/22/64 Dunney Pio Perez Alamo, who had been Chief of

Military Operations for ELC, advised that the ELC at one time was

of the same group which currently comprised JUrE.

He stated that

Manuel Ray had been

leader of the MRP at the time of the Cuban invasion

in April, 1961, and that the MRP was the forerunner of JURE, Of which

Ray was

the regarded leader although he was only one of the members of

the Executive Board of JURE.

He continued that after the defeat of

Cuban forces in the April, 1901 invasion, Ray resigned from the Mri

and organized JURe at a meeting of former MRP members in Puerto Rico.

the ELC was formed from a segment of the tormer

description our ta detent at thou ate quest to the a type o

government as Castro). He regarded Ray as a firm believer in democratic

principles and stated

that Ray was one of the first in Cuba to work 1n

opposition to

the Castro regime once he saw that Castro was taking Cuba

in the direction of communism.

Perez stated that Ray renounced his

position as Minister of Public Works under Castro in 1959 and at that time

began to work clandestinely in Cuba to organize his MRP beiore he toak

exile in the US around latter 1960.

105-110055-48 enc1•p. 1,2,4

(45214

On 1/6/64 NM-192-S (64-21981) was in contact with Nicholas

T. Nonnenmacher, Administrative Assistant to Donald C. Bruce, Representa-

tive from Indiana.

The latter asked if informant had any knowledge

of "Operation Judas" to which informant replied negatively.

Nonnenmacher

explained that this was a plan for the assassination of Fidel Castro

and the taking over of the Cuban Government by new leadership with

Hubert Matos as the new head, Manuel Ray as a prominent leader and Bloy

Gutierrez Menoyo as Chief of the Army.

Nonnenmacher indicated that this

plan would operate in accord with an internal uprising in Cuba and aske

informant's opinion.

Informant did not believe

and felt that it would probably be impossible since Matos was in prison, (u

Gutierrez had been a traitor too often, Ray was not trusted by many

Cubans, and individuals inside Cuba were under strict police supervision

Nonnenmacher further asked informant's opinion of Ray, Armando

Max Lesnik and Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo to which he answered that

Pleites in agreement with Nonneracher that they were "pinks" and were

untrustworthy. (21)

64-21981-270 p.2,3

(24).

-12-

SECRET

HH

50953 DocId: 32295095 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECKED

In reference to above, a discreet inquiry was made with ClA

concerning "Operation Judas."

On 1/24/04 Austin Horn, CIA, advised

that this cryptonym was unknown to his agency.

He commented that

Manolo Ray was well known to be a strong supporter of Hubert Matos and

closely associated with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo.

64-21981-273

(202)

On 2/24/64 NY-4325-S* made available certain material maintained

by Jose Antonio Gonzalez Gonzalez (105-83473) in his apartment in NY.

this material consisted of a plain envelope stapled through for securitys

reasons and torn scraps of paer also stapled through to prevent reassembly

The informant determined that these scraps actually formed an undated

message, apparently containing instructions for Kingpin.

contained double-meaning phrases and the names of Cuban intelligences.

agents were coded by word substitution.

the (substitution code.) The message as translated from the original LS

Spanish, withlkey words decoded set quest

to Mauricio (code name for Manolo Ray).

An interpretation of paragraph 1l revealed that Cuba was

asking for details concerning Manolo Ray whom they stated

appointed by CIA (Corporacion Italiana de Aviacion to head preparations

against them.

" It was noted that luba was correct inasmuch as the Centra

Intelligence Agency had advised mat they were /backing Ray to a certain

JURE.

105-83473-81 p. 4,12

(201)

SI 105=83473-61 p-3

120) JIt was noted that Kingpin (»

is Bureau code name for Juan b

Parto Rio He agent I IC53

(20,38%

"SFCRFT

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095 Page 5

-13-

---

## Page 6

SECRET

(continued)

some chance of success in overthrowing the Castro government. ' Diaz

added that in the event of a widespread internal revolt within Cuba

activated by JURi, any future action along these same lines by "Cuba"

would be nulliiied.

105-124864-4.

(10,17)

On 4/24/64 Gloria Molinet, Wife of Irving Richard Poyle (5)

(105-107868), furnished CIA, Miami, with a letter postmarked Mexico,

4/14/64, which she had received from her husband. ' In this

communication he furnished the following information concerning Manolo

he should be watched with

a suspecting eye; he claimed the right

to enter into Puerto Rican affairs because of Puerto Rican ancestry;

he was Iriendly with the assassination group which plotted againsi

President Truman; he was very friendly with and in frequent contact

with communist Albizu Canpos from Puerto Rico; he was in contact with

a group of Puerto Ricans,

particularly electricians, who were working

on the renovation of the

communistic feelings; he always referred to Americans as "Yankees"

and names much worse; and some of his supporters were working with Reds

in Cuba.

The writer also made reference to Carlos Govantes and his

brother, Henry, both in the US,

stating

that Carlos had considerable

knowledge regarding Ray and that Carlos' home was used to make calls to

the US when both he and Ray were living in Cuba.

Copy of above letter enclosed

105-107868-57 encl.p.2

(211)

SECRET!

-16-

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

ENTY 3877-57

reported that on 4/14/64 Donald Grant (UNIS

In contact with MiguelC 5>

Incuired concernino

identariegan revolution and was currently one of the heads of the

counterrevolutionary movement. Grant commented that he

thought Ray

was in Puerto Rico.

Alfonso confirmed this,

adding that he was morel S

or less in charge of the saboteurs and such.

The above source continued that Grant indicated that he had

been reviewing clippings (?) from a number of people who predicted

something would happen by 5/20/64. Grant related that he was compiling

a report

on this and would like Alfonso'S comments. They agreed to (3]

discuss the matter the following day. (a)

(62-77787-210-8977

(21519)

A CIA report dated 4/14/64 revealed that Manuel Quiza

Docal (2-1808) coordinator of

the Second Bay of Cardenas

Operation;

a. Cuban exile organization, recently stated that he had. found it

Impossible to adapt to the

internal conditions existing in JURE with

which his organization had made a recent pact. Quiza stated that a

hit-and-run raid planned for late March had been coordinated by JURE

with the alliance formed by SENE, MRP and A1pha-66.

The objective

was to increase the financial support for the plan

to carry the war

to Cuba in a combined operation; however, the agreements were

impracticable because of the control exerted within the mechanism of

. JUKE and SPNE. (Fuy

CIA continued that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, military coordinator

for SFNE,

was

an almost daily visitor to the house located behind the

JURE offices in Miami where coordinated planning for both

organizations

was taking place.

There was still a lack of decision on important

issues such as a

Manuel Artime Buesa,

Manuel Ray Rivero and Gutierrez and in meetings held in Caracas

Venezuela, between Ray and representatives

and allies of Alpha-66.*(u)

deadquarters Comment: There was no information confirm direct

contacts between /Artime and Ray. (Su)

2-1808-30

(15124)

-17-

NHT 50953

SECRET

DooId: 32295095

Page 7

---

## Page 8

C

SECRET

On 4/23/64, Joe Vidal, CIA informant, Miami, (protect identity)

advised the Miami Office that

on 4/20/64 Ramon Luis Gonzalez Rodriguez,

husband oi Olga Georgina, Golcochea, Salas (105-129901), 1n1ormed lyrus

intelligence

agent, that she departed the US for Mexico City on 1/17/64 and was

willing to cooperate with appropriate US Government officials concerning

ner activities in tre Cuben Intelligence Service (015). 0(4)

INS, Miami, furnished CIA the above information and CIA

interviewed Ranon conzalez for further dotails as fallous (e(4)

Olga entered the US at Miami on 1/12/64 and had 5-fold missions

to complete. One

them was to develop information regarding the

activities and militant plans of anti-Castro organizations - SNE under

the leadership di sloy curterrer lero and organi lone led by carole

Ray and ex-Cuban President Carlos Prio Soccaras.

In connection with this mission CIA noted that Olga was a

personal friend of Manolo Ray; her husband was a friend of Gutierrez,

both she and her husband were acquainted with Prio. CIA stated

that they had no operational

interest in any organization or individuals

mentioned in Olga's targets.

и)

CIA would

further evaluate Olga's double agent potential

and whether she would serve the best interest of the US Government in

Mexico or in the US.

(953129981-2 .3 (24)

1240

• On 4/27/64 Carlos Goenaga Morales (2-1863) contacted Chief

of Police Gus 0. Krausse in Brownsville, Texas, at which time he was

• Chief Krausse and an SA.

_Goenaga was bitter against

Antonio "Tony" Varona whom he described as being the leader of refugee

Cuban organizations in Miami. He stated that Cuban leaders in Miami

did not want to see.

Castro overthrown because they had too good a

Pepin Bosch of Los Angeles to head the anti-Castro groups in the US.

One of these was JURE headed by Manolo Ray.

2-1863-1 enc1.p.3

(190

SECRETI

18-

ATHT

50953 DocId: 32295095 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECKET!

On 4/21/04 Joaquin Godoy, a member of the Executive Committee

commented on recent public statements

by JURE, headed by Manolo Ray,

in the us of the was (105-02704 hatre would be inside Cuba during the

nonth of May, 1964. Godoy indicated that the MRP

and its unity

organizations

SNCE and Alpha 66, all anti-Castro organizations, were

not united with JURE but were cooperating with JURe to a limited degree.

He explained that he and his associates felt that Manolo Ray was political-

ly smarter than

they and would therefore eventually dominate the NRP,

SNTE and Alpha 66, should any close cooperation be agreed upon.

105-92704-93

(216)

This reference concerned probable internal changes during

mid May, 1964 in the section of the Cuban Intelligence Service (CIS)

responsible for covert operations in the US. These changes were

allegedly being brought about by a growing awareness on the part

forces in Cuba and

by 5/20/64. (Details set out) (fu(u)

It was noted that such changes would have

effect on CIs covert operations räthin the Us. CEC4 detrimental

Double Agent Operations - Cuba,

in

the subject of (105-128912](5)

795-228922-7 8-2-676)

(10192 42

Laureano Batista Falla,

Military

• Chief of Movimiento

Democrata Cristiano in Miami, claimed that in May, 1964, the under-

ground in Cuba planned to start military and guerrilla varfare activity

against the Government of Cuba.

Manuel Ray planned to be in Cuba by

5/20/64. Ray tried to give the impression that he would be in Cuba for

the purpose of leading the revolution against the government. Batista

that Ray was going to Cuba because he had

either been ordered

o do so by the Us Government or by leading fiqures in the Cuban under-

ground.

Batista stated that the real chiefe or

the anti-Fidel Castro

movement were in Cuba and would make all

decistons concernind the

proposed May, 1904 uprising. Participation in this uprising by Ray

was incidental to the uprising and Ray would not be

one of the leaders.

(source not clearly indicated)

97-4110-109 encl.p.3

SECRET

-19-

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET!

The Tampa "Tribune," page 4A, for 5/21/64 contained an article

written by Vance Johnston Captioned "Exiles Train At Camp In Mid-Florida."

The article stated that numerous Cuban exiles who were followers of

Manuel Ray had been undergoing guerrilla warfare training in mid-Florida.

The article continued that Ray, believed to be in cuba, and his followers

were expected to

strike at several points on the island nation at any

time.

The subject of this file is Weir W. Villiams on whose property

the JURE training camp

was located.

2-1865-7 encl. p.2

(1)V

on 5/23/64, Dr. Agustin Castellanos, Confidential Source,

(protect identity) furnished information concerning the Cuban exile

colony in Ecuador.

At that time he mentioned Humber to Estevez as

being head of the

MRP, as having a good reputation publicly and privately,

and as being trusted by lanuel Ray. (f (V)

109-12-212-199 encl. p.1

(10)V

On 5/26/64, CIA advised that Maria Elena de Cardenas

105129224), a Cuban woman residing in N, was working with Manue.

JURE.

Instead of working for

the interests of Ray's

group, she was working against them by sending information to Cuba.

Cardenas was

reportedly a very strong supporter of Fidel Castro. (4)

105429224-2

(10,17)

On 4/29/64 PSI Arturo Gonzalez Gonzalez (protect identity).

reported that an organization named Los Juramentados (Those Sworn To)

(105-125545) had recently given indications that it was becoming more

on 4/16/64 with representatives of Alpha 66, JURE, MRP and SNFE. All

were described as "carrying a burning desire to free the homeland.

(continued)

SECRET

- 20m

ITT 50953

DocId: 32295095

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

(continued)

TP-59-S had indicated (date not given) that he was of the

opinion that Los Juramentados was another name for members of JURE.

Gomez Calzadilla, Secretary-General of Los Juramentados, advised on

6/4/64 that the group had

no connection with JUrE, the

anti-Castro

organization of Manuel Ray. C(U)

105-125545-4 p.B,2

(102

a Cuban exile, advised that the are te dacional Rev lucia cutano

National Revolutionary Front) (105-129000), which he

headed, ceased to function as an independent organization around October

or November, 1963, when it joined with JURE. Alanis indicated that he

disagreed with the way Rogello Cisneros, chief delegate of JURE in

Miami, conducted JURE business. He asserted that about eighty percent

of JURE members felt that Cisneros was incapable of conducting JURE

affairs in the absence of Manuel Ray.

Around 6/8/64 Alanis and other

leading JURE members

held a conference with Manuel Ray (place not given)

and informed him that unless JURE policy was modified, FNRC members would

withdraw from JURE. Alanis commented that the recent

seizure by the

British authorities at Anguila Key of Ray and others

was a failure for

which Cisneros was largely responsible because of bad planning.

Alanis

stated that he still considered Ray a good man and a leader for JURE.

105-129080-4 p.3-5

By letter dated 6/22/64, the Bureau forwarded originals and

translations of communications to Los Angeles Office, described below.

Jose Maria Salas-Canizares (97-4503) furnished a resume of

information concerning

Manolo Ray and other individuals of JURE.

resume written in Spanish appeared on the letterhead of the "Cuban

Anti-Communist Legion," Miami.

Included among the information was the

following: Ray was an architect in the Ministry of Public Works during

the government of Batista and at the same time traitorously was Chief of

the July 26 Movement in Havana; was a great friend of Engineer (FNU)

Arroyo, Minister of Public Works who was later Ambassador in Washington;

became Minister of Public Works under Fidel Castro; sanctioned, as

Minister, the Ten Laws (set out) of President Manuel Urrutia, which led

to the communization of Cuba; denied his brother, Rene, refuge which

resulted in the latter's being killed; and continued as

Minister and

friend to Castro after his brother's death.

(continued)

-21-

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095

SFCRETI

Page 11

---

## Page 12

(continued)

Salas also made available a copy of a letter in Spanish

dated 5/14/64 received by him from Alberto Marrero, 115-39th St.

Union City, NY.

This letter indicated that Romulo Betancourt,

(ENU)

and Munoz Marin had "armed to the teeth" Ray and Guttierez

Figures "political Democratic leftists," who apparently had made a

pact with Lazaro Pena, a Negro communist in Cuba to strike a counterblow

against the communists eliminating

the Castroites and the July 26 Movement,

endorsed by Ray, in order to impose a change in Cuba to a communist-file

or neutral regime. CIA was working on this deal but had a "hidden

aided Ray so that he would not

no vaus had eliminated day and turned to artime. us undertaine

Translations of above 2 communications

enclosed

97-4503-18 p. 1,2 and encl.p.2,4,6

(242002

(W.

) : On 6/25/64 Eudaldo A. Suarez (protect identity), accountant

with Representacion Cubana Del Exilio (RECE-Cuban Representation in

Exile) (105-126039) advised that the purpose of RECE was to form a

large anti-Castro organization to effect the eventual overthrow of the

Cuban Government. To accomplish this, the organization had to unite

obtain US and

of money for the formation of

world support and raise a large sum

the military organization.

Nanuel Ray recently visited RECE headquarters in Miami and

conferred with officials; however, no agreement was reached. (Source

and date not clearly indicated).

105-126039-8 p.3

In reference to an invéstigation concerning a JURE training

camp set up on the property of Weir P. Williams (2-1865) in Polk County,

Fla., several JURE members were interviewed. The name of Manuel Ray

was mentioned in the following interviews:

On 6/22/64 Edilberto

Fernandez advised that he was a JURE member because he was concerned

over the communist comination of Cuba and believed that the policies of

JURE under the direction of Ray represented a sound basis for the

overthrow of Fidel Castro.

On 6/23/64 Carlos Zarraga stated that the

anti-Castro group, Cuba Libre, which he headed and recently incorporated

InTO JURE was actively participating in military plans of

indicated that two of his men accompanied Ray in the latter's effort

to infiltrate Cuba which resulted in

capture by British authorities in

(continued)

SECRET -22-

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095

Page 12

---

## Page 13

(continued) (109-584)

INFORMATION

Ray in NYC on 12/6/63, planned to

travel to California and return to

Puerto Rico. Ray expressed interest

in obtaining explosives. (Zachary

De Gaster, 10 to 40th Stog NIC,

protect identity)

Ray resided in Puerto Rico, was the

most prominent member of the Executive

(Carlos Zarraga,

Terrace, Miami, 12/13/63)

275 3-161 •

Ray was a socialist whose political

thinking was unclear; was without

cultural background although a

qualified and licensed

engineer;

was not well oriented; and was a

shrewd politician with plenty of

money available to him through

Governor Luis Munoz Marin of Puerto

Rico and

the US State Departnent.

Cuban exiles believed Ray would be

Rap arous be

important figure in future of Cuba

after overthrow of present government.

Some contact had between Ray's JURE and:

Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (MDC) •

(Laureano Batista Falla, head of

military section of MDC, 12/16/63)

Ray intended to sell bonds to help:

JURE in its military plans for fight

ing in Cuba. Bonds delivered

Miami by Dr. Raul Chibas, head of JURE

military activities in NY. JURE

looking for office space in NY to open

office in early January, 1964. (Ismael

on t0 pen

Rodriguez, 84-19 51st Ave.

Elnhurs t,

Long Island, NY, protect identity,

late December, 1963) #(U)

SERIAL AND SEARCH

SLIP PAGE NUMBER

3822 p.1a,12,18,19

(180)

3861 encle p.6,7

(11)

(continued)

-25- SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095 Page 13

---

## Page 14

(continued) (109-584)

INFORMATION

Five exile groups merged with JURE under

Ray: Cuba, Libre Movement; The Revolution-

ary National Assembly; The National

Revolutionary Cuban Front; The Liberating

Army of Cuba; and the Cuban units trained

by US Army at It. Jackson, SC ACSNX

2822-S, 2/6/64

Miami News" 1/31/64)

121)

A publicity man in Cuba believed that if

Ray established force in Cuba in May,

1904, he would receive active support fron

just

a few Cubans but probably passive sup-

port, such as food secretly provided his

forces, frOm many others. (CIA) (

* (4)

Ray headed one of two groups of anti-

Castro Cubans training in Costa Rica

training reportedly for purposes of

infiltration and sabotage and not for

invasion.

Cubans had been

there since

October, 1963. Lt. Col. Fernando Figuls

Quiros,

head of the Security Agency

and adviser to President of Costa Rica 5

protect identity)

Ray participated in meeting of National

Directorate of JURE held in Miani during

weekend of 5/2-3/64. On 5/3/64 informant

met with Ray and agreed to accompany him

and JURE members into Cuba around

5/20/64. Ray would head JURE in Cuba

and Rogelio Cisneros would head JURE

in exile.

According to Ray, Jose Gomez,

Orlando Castro and Jesus Becquer Of

National Directorate of JURE would

accompany him into Cuba.

Ray telephonically

advised informant on 5/12/64 to proceed

immediately to Miami. (Andrew St.

George,

"Life"

magazine photographer! protect

identity)

Miriam Teste

of Alpha, 66-II Frente-MRP

in Miami denied report of agreement

between

ex-Major Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo

of that organization and Ray of JURt.

(CSNY 2822-5, 5/13/64) (SU)

SERIAL AND SEARCH

SLIP PAGE NUNBER

3890

3971 p.a, 2

(210

3957 enc1.p.3,4

(11,24

(continued)

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095

Page 14

---

## Page 15

(continued) (100-584)

INFORMATION

SECRET!

Cuba expected increased exile activity

in May 1964 because of Ray's announcement:

to be in Cuba by 5/20/64 and reporis

ather possible invasions. (CIA) C(a)

JURE consisted of a 5-man national board

with headquarters in San Juan, Puerto

Rico-Ray head of board. (Carlos

Larraga,

2954 SW 16th Terrace, Miami,

1/24/64

JURE, through Ray, had very good contacts

in Cuban Militia and Rebel Army. Reliable

person in Columbus, Ga., claimed to

have sold considerable

arms. to Ray.

Informant did not doubt that Ray would

try to establish some military activity

in Cuba in the near future. (Santiago

Alvarez

Rodriguez, 541 NW 45th Ave., Miami,

2/6/64)

Ray recently conferred with Romulo

Betancourt, President of Venezuela.

Ray publicly stated plans to be in

Cuba by 5/20/64• Informant had no doubt

Ray would be there. (Carlos Zarraga,

supra, 2/28/64)

Informant of opinion that Ray would

open small operation in Cuba for about

3 or 4 months beginning in May. Ray

would then return to US on big organi-

zation drive to establish large unity

movement for eventual return to Cuba.

(Joaquin Godoy, head of MRP, 3/5/64)

On 3/9/64 Ray issued press release in

Miami stating his plans to be in Cuba

and establish a front by 5/20/64.

Rogelio Cisneros Diaz recognized as

representative of JURE in the US since

Ray was engaged in clandestine effort

to enter Cuba. (Cisneros, 5/25/64)

SERIAL AND SEARCH

SLIP PAGE NUMBER

3946

(11,181)

3884 p. 1,2,4,5

(117

3958

(184

-28-

SEAD

NH 50953 DocId: 32295095 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

the following reierences on Manuel Ray, Manuel Ray Rivero,

Manolo kay, and Manolo lay livero located in 11des marntained in the

Special File Room of

the Files and

Communications Division, Records

Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

64-330-209-91

64-330-210-1063

1109

1178

64-330-210-1-64

S

64-330-210-6-77

64-330-228-616

633

64-330-237-1610

05-67951-821 (5)

105-86020-788

850

105-89923-134

152

155

164

187

A "The Worker" 11/14/61

• "NY Herald Tribune" 1/9/61

A

"Our Sunday Visitor"

5/14/61

A

"NY World Telegram" 2/23/62

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(127

(20%

(2%

(35%

(202

(350)

(3681

(361)

(365

(20%

(3,20,337

30 132

(20)

(215

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main file. Differences in source will be noted on

search slip.

-32-

SECRET

ITT 50953

DocId: 32295095

Page 16

---

