# 124-10221-10297

## Page 1

124-10221-10297

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10297

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 174-2-14253

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, BOMBINGS, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

08/17/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953 DocId: 32340904

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(PAGBiR

RUEAIIA 8212 SECRET

OUT "NOT ONLY BECAUSE OF THE COMMUNIST SITUATION UNDER WHICH THE

CUBAN PEOPLE HAVE TO LIVE, BUT BECAUSE OF COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF

LATIN AMERICA." IT WAS SUBSEQUENTLY LEARNED THAT TWO BOMBINGS OCCURRE D

THE JOTHER HAVING BEEN AGAINST THE CUBANA DE AVIACION OFFICE LOCATED

AT TOCUMEN INTERNATIONALI

AIRPORT WHICH SERVES PANAMA CITY AND THE

PANAMA

PANAMA CANAL ZONE.

30 COSTA RICA: Ao THE LOCAL PRESS OF 5 AUGUST 1976

REPORTED THE

APREST OF IHREE MEN CHARGED WITH PLACING BOMBS IN THE DEFICES OF THE

LEFT-WING NEWSPAPER

QUEBLO," THE COSTA RICAN POPULAR FRONT PARTY AND

SOCIALIST PARTY

THE ACTIVITIES OF THE MEN ARRESTED WERE SAID

• тО

BE DIRECTED BY

THE FLATIN AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL" FOUNDER BY

Ch

ORL ANDO BOSCH AVILA.

ONE OF THE MEN, RUARI YES AITO, WAS,

SAID TO BE

Cister

Kirt

King

¿CARVAJAL, ARE COSTA RICAN NATIONALS. GARCIA WAS SAID ALSO TO REPRE-S

SENT A PRO-CHILE ORGANIZATION, CITED AS

COMITE COSTARRICENSE PRO- ChiL

VERDAD CHILENA, " AND TO BE LINKED WITH BOSCH. ACCORDING TO

COSTA RICAN AUTHORITIES DISCOVERED AMONG S

NH 50953 DocId: 32340904 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE!

3 RUEAIIA 8212 SECRET

THE PERSONAL EFFECTS OF THE MEN ARRESTED A LETTER FROM BOSCH MEN-

TIONING HIS GROUP AS RESPONSIBLE FOR A BOMBING ACTION TAKEN AGAINST

JUBANA DE AVIACION AT XINGSTON, JAMAIÇA•

%. AT ABOUT 0720 HOURS LOCAL TIME ON 24 AUGUST 1976 TWO HIGH EX-

PLOSIVE DEVICES WERE DETONATED IN SAN JOSE.

ONE HAD REEN PLACED

OUTSIDE THE OFFICES DE YEDIA AIRLINES PUT MAD BEEN MOVED BY A

STREET CLEANER

TO A POINT FARTHER WEST OF THE SAME STREET WHERE IT

EXPLODED IN FRONT OF OTHER OFFICES. THE OTHER EXPLODED OUTSIDE THE

CoStA KiCA

OFFICES OF THE NANACO SHIPPING LINE IN THE PAVAS DISTRICT OF

SAN

JOSE. THE EXPLOSIONS INJURED SIX PERSONS. THE PRESS DESCRIBED THE

BOMBS AS HAVING BEEN FABRICATED WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVE AND DETONATED BY

CLOCK MECHANISMS. IT ALSO NOTED THAT IBERIA MAS AIR ROUTES SERVICING

CUBA AND NANACO IS ASSOCIATED WITH THE NAVIERA MULIINACIONAL DEL

CARIBE (NAMUCAR) TO WHICH CUBA BELONGS, AND RELATED THE BOMBINGS TO

SIMILAR ACTS THAT HAVE OCCURRED IN PANAMA AND COLOMBIA.

40

COMMENTED THAT

THERE HAS BEEN A RASH OF BOMB INCIDENTS IN SAN JOSE DURING THE LAST

SEVERAL MONTHS. THE EARLIER ONES ENTAILED THE USE OF BLACK POWDER-

TYPE INGREDIENTS, NORMALLY PURCHASED LOCALLY FOR RELIGIOUS CELEBRA-

TIONS, AND THEREFORE WERE NOT ESPECIALLY DANGEROUS OR DAMAGING. THE

NH 50953 DocId: 32340904 Page 3

---

