# 124-10193-10038

## Page 1

124-10193-10038

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/14/20

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10193-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82555-3RD NR 466

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, LO

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/10/1963

2

LHO, POST-RP, TRA, VISA, SOVIET

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32285262 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD.30 (Sex. 12-13-56)

Xa."

FBI

Transmit the following in

Date:

2/3/63

SECRET

(Type in plain text or cone)

CIA HAS NO, OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIF Y

AND/OR,

RELE/SA

URMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Via

AIRTEL

(Pri. "y or Method u/ Mailing)

ASIC

8-12-92

50 4

- 9803-100/KSR

DIRECTOR, FBI

DAclassty on: 04un

FROM

JFK SPECIAL

LEGAT, LONDON (62-359) (P)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

CLASSIFIED

• BU

12040

JOHN F. KENNEDY

EXEMPT FROM

GDS CATEGORY I.

DAlE OF DECL

DELS SIFICATION INDEFINITE

Remyairtel 11/26/63 reporting a newspaper reporter

in Cambridge,

England had stated he received anonymous telephone

call prior to the time of the President's assassination saying re

should call the American Embassy in London as there would be some

big news. U

Oswald

The Bureau was informed that on the next road trip

to. Scandanavia checks would be made with sources there for any

information on OSWALDes

My cable of 11/27/63 stated British

ar0x0-18

Security Service, MI-5A had informed that the reporter was unreliable

and irresponsible

On

19/9/63 MALCOLM CUMMING of MI-5 advised that trie

reporter, TREVOR FITZGERALD

had been interviewed, He stated he

Received the

ca 11

at the öffices of the "Cambridge News" at about

6 PM on Friday November 22, 1963. He based the time on the fact be

had arrived home from his office at 6:20 PM. The call was made by

a man with an English accent who spoke with a deep voice.

Inquiries

at the telephone exchange in Cambridge were unable to contirm the

call. According to MI-5, while FITZGERALD is described as a capable

reporter a reliable source has informed he is in the habit of:

"shooting a line".

There were no other persons in the office when(S

the call was allegedly received and it was not until the morning o

Baturday, 11/23/63 that FITZGERALD mentioned the call. On the

morning

of 11/23/63 the reporters of the

"Cambridge News" were dis-

cussing

the assassination and it was at this time FITZGERALD mentio

the call to

the

authorities

chiel reporter who in turn reported i to local

Mussitsation Chu

a made

C/A letter 9/23/88

SA6-B

3

Bureau

aude 12/

Liaison

Section (sent direct)

DEC 12

1963

London

CWB:rn

(5)

-225-

ORIGINAL FILED IN

Wick

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NOT RECORDED

1 Septe 17 TS

SECRED

ALL

CONTAINED

HES:

_ M

L.ei

SSIFIED

EXCR:

WERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

NH 50953 DocId: 32285262

Páge 2

---

## Page 3

Lonfile 62-359

CWB ern

According to MI-5, FIIZGERALD is married

resides at 3 Earl Street, Cambridge.

He was born 3/28/39.

It

is the general feeling among FITZGERALD's colleagues that

there

is

doubt about the telephone call having ever been received

On 12/2/63

informed me

that a check had been made of the following records on OSWALD:

American Embassy, Alien Police, Criminal Police

Security Police

all hotels in osloshere checks were completely negative.

/On 12/4/63

[sweden

tated Stockholm newspapers on 11/25/63 reported OSWAl

obtailed his Soviet visa in Stockholm in 1959 after being unable

OSWALD had remained in stockholm for

A check of all

hotel records in stockholm were

alien records also negative abigative. poisoes security and

(v)C

On 12/6/63

advised

onfidential inquiry

nãd disclosed OSWALD arrived in Helsinki

nd registered at the Torni Hotel. He remained there

one night,

then: moved to the Klaus Kurki Hotel where he remained

until 10/15/59.

On that date he crossed the Finnish-Soviet

border by train.

stated there was no indication he wentS)

to Stockhoin to get his visa and it is presumed the visa was

issued by the Soviet Embassy in Helsinki.

A check of police, anc

alien records disclosed no information

in Helsinki.&

AllAiN

REMAINS

5-8-92

ON

9803

5-

SECRET

ATHT

50953

DonTd: 32285262

Page 3

---

