# 124-90076-10040

## Page 1

124-90076-10040

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90076-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-66995-62

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/11/1967

• PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS:

CARLOS OSCAR ECHEGOYEN LEON

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

RPT

V9.1

IT 50953

DocId: 32328525

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 9-17-651,

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

DATE

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGEDY

CARTOS OSCAR ECHEGOYEN YEON, aka.

Carlos Echegoyen leon,

5/11/67

REPORT MADE BY

RUSSELL P. CURTIS

CHARACTER OF CASE

Carlos- Echegoyen Leon Vicente,

Carlos Leon Echegoyen,

CIA HAS NO ORIENDS TO

Carlos O.

" Echegoyen,

DECLASSIAICAT

CU

Carlos Oscar EChegoyen,

Carlos Echegoyen,

RELEASE Of SI

its ORIMATION

1P 1-23-98

le l acheroyen,

Carlos L.XEchegoyon,

Carlos E. LeON,

Carlos Leon,

pg. E. The banektation py s wAs

NoT ADDRESSED bY CiA

rather sebastian,

Fathers San Sebastian

EPERIOD

1/3 - 5/1/57

•127

TYPED BY

neb

2952628

multiple source/ Buy

CAES

118-91

destity stas stude

SUMMARY REPORT

Declassix on: Ol0k

Title of this case marked changed to reflect additional

aliases

used by subject, as contained in his INS file, FBI Identification

Record, and as developed in the course of investigation.

REFERENCE:

Bulet to Miami, 12/29/66;

Washington Field letters

to Miami, 3/16, 4/7/67

(Interoffice) ;

New York letter to Miami, 4/28/67 (Interoffice).

(JFK)

9-647-p

CLASSIFIRD RY 5668

DECLASSIFY Oly. 25X.

statek

Case has been: Pending o

one yotr

@ No; Pending prosecution over six months CJ Yes No

APPROVED

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHANCE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE

10

Bureau

(205-66995) (RU) CARS/ 05 - 66995-62

3 - Miami

(105-1550)

MCT A

REG- 14

See next page for other copies

COPIES DESTROYED

16

MAY 15 1967

OSITER

HH

50959

41 NOV 1 4 1972

I SUWISE

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Copy tot

GIA/State/RAO:

Request Reed.

Fwd.

ONKOSHACSI

Fwd.

by conting slip for info.

Date

umpex SECRET

5 4MAY 2619676-1

DoCT: 32328525

Page

EX 108

LATIN AMERICA

* 1:41

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1550

SECRE

CONFIDENTIAL.

On May 1, 1967,

fIA (covert);

Miami, advised SA JAMES D.

HAYES that he had no addi

tional

information concerning subject in Miami. ==L

Bulet, December 29, 1966, requested comments,

servations, and recommendations, as to further investigation.

It is, therefore, respectfully submitted that

results of investigation in New York area, as requested

in this report, will, to a great

extent, determine the future

course of investigation.

Therefore, recommendations as to

further investigation will be submitted on receipt of New

York report.

-The question to be resolved is whether or not

subject is presently a Cuban Intelligence Service (CIS)

agent. A review of material in this report, and in reports

previously submitted, would tend to show that subject could

have functioned as such. Considering CIS targets, subject's

activities in the Miami area in 1959 and 1960, prior to the

time he went to New York, are highly suspect.. He seems to

have been able to disrupt every attempt by anti-CASTRO organi.

zations to organize or unifi.

For example,

not only did he

denounce the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD), as

well as its leader, MANUEL ANTONIO VARONA, as a tool

of the

Communists, he also said he had withdrawn

support of GARCIA

KOHLY, SR., and his Cuban Liberating Commandos, after associ

ating with KOHLY in Washington, D. C.

When questioned about

individual units in the KOHLY organization,

ECHEGOYEN said

he had either withdrawn his support of KOHLY, or that he,

ECHEGOYEN, could furnish no additional information concerning

each individual unit.

This information was

previously submitted (Au

A Havana informant identified subject as a DIER

agent (Legat, Havana, letter to Director, July 16, 1959)

(Bufile 65-63987-210), entitled, "FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

CUBA, and stated DIER in 1959 actually was the Cuban military

intelligence organization rather than the intelligence division (e1

E.

COVER PAGE

COMSOENTI

SECRET

HH

50953 DocId:32328525 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-1550

SECRET

CON DENTIAN

of the Cuban Air Force. It is possible that the Bureau

has more information on this point concerning subject

and DIER in June, 1959, and subsequent period.

There could have been also attempts to

information such as the information originally furnished

by subject to GEORGE TODI, Herald Express, columnist,

in Los Angeles, California,

, May 9, 196T,

that he,

ECHEGOYEN, had received a code message from Cuba to the

effect that the Cuban Government imported printing

equipment from East Germany via Czechoslovakia capable of

counterfeiting $50.00 and $100.00 bills in U.S. currency.

The above has been reported previously.

INFORMANTS

Identity

MM T-l is Legat, Havana,

Legat letter

• to Director, 6/29/59

captioned,

"CARLOS, LEON ECHEGOYEN,

IS - CUBA; NA"

MM T-2 is Legat, Havana

Legat letter

to Director,

7/16/59,

entitled, L'FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

MATTERS - CUBA 7&2

(u)

MM/ T-3 is GEORGE LESTER FREEMAN,

South Florida Manager, Southern

Bell Telephone, Miami

MM T-4 is [CIA teletype to Director,

FBI, 12/21/66, entitled, "CARLOS OSCAR

ECHEGOYEN LEON,

= CUBA"

MM T5 is

M 1115S

Location

1051550-12

[05-1747-718102 (4)

105-1550-12

558(4)05-1550-101

F.

COVER PAGE

COMERENTIAS

SECREM

HH 50953 DOCT: 32328525

Page 1

---

## Page 5

MM 105 1550

SECRET

INFORMANTS

Identity

SM T-6 1S MM 49228

MM T-7 is WE

CONFERENTAR:

Location

олій не прод

134-44A-113, -657

97-138-1, pg. 2

The following informants who formerly were in

a position to know subject, advised they knew of no

present pro- or anti-CASTRO activities on his part.

MM 724-S, contacted by SA RUSSELL P. CURTIS,

\January 31, 1967 (Miami 134-409)

MM 635-5,

contacted by SAs CURTIS and

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.,

1/11-12/67 (Miami 134-211).

G

COVER PAGE

CONEIDENTIAN

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32328525 Page 5

---

