# 124-90124-10056

## Page 1

124-90124-10056

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90124-10056

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 97-3224-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MX

HQ

DATE:

08/24/1962

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

MANUEL FUEGO

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

IT 50953

DocId: 32335498

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORGINO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES & /ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-3224)

DATE: 8/24/62

FROM

CIA HAS NO OBVESTION TO MANUEL FUEGO, aka

MATHIS TOO CRET PREP ANCES TON ACT

Kp 5 18 916 elligences Department of the stant chler of stars for

on 8/13/62, It. COl. JOSE IUISXAGUILAR DEXLEON,

Minister of Labor and social Welfare, National Palace,

Guatemala

City, Guatemala, furnished the following Inior-

mation:

6-11-88

5648 SUspER

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIPY ON: 26X /

(FFR

ESFIED

SHOWN

Vile

N

MAC/KS,

Jill

Docl

He stated he first met subject as MANUEL FIRESTONE,

together with an individual by the name of WERBELi and

another by the name of KANE several months ago.

He said

these individuals had somehow met Colonel ENRIQUEXPERAITA I aTS

Minister of Defense of the Guatemalan Government.

PERAITA

in turn asked It. Col. AGUILAR DE LEON to sit in on the

meeting with subject

and the other two as PERALIA and

AGUILAR are close friends and as PERALIA wanted him also

to act as an interpreter, inasmuch as he speaks good

English.

charge: of G-2 01

the Guatemalan Army and is still connected with G-2 even

though occupying the position of a Minister. (C)

Subject and his companions proposed to sell to

the Guatemalan Government arms

and ammunition and also

FITZ

CoPy

offered to provide mercenaries.

In the latter regard, they

mentioned Cubans, French and other nationalities.

At the

same time, they requested credentials identifying them as

agents of the Guatemalan Government.

He said he did not

like the proposition, especially the offer of mercenaries,

not hesitate to furnish his opinion to Colone

PERALTA.

Colonel PERALTA did not accept the pite:

do

usiness with the subject and his companions C

3'2

Bureau

BEC.0

(1

2

mndia1son

Section)

97-3224-

Atlantan wu

(200 BrETT RE

- Miami )

1500) destr

- Washington Field de-Samarie

AGE 29 7362

1 - Mexico City

WEK: 1J

(10)

SECRET

SEP 10

SEE

overe

HH

70953 DocId: 32335498

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MC 97-72

SECRET

Subsequently on several occasions, subject or

one of his companions has tried

to influence It. Col.

AGUILAR DE LEON to convince the Minister of Defense to

accept their proposition.

He said they have invited him

to lunch on several occasions, which he has not accepted,

and he personally feels that they have wanted to bribe

him, but have not directly propositioned him in this

He said the last time he heard from them was

several weeks ago when they telephoned his residence and

left a number where they could be contacted at the Maya

Excelsior Hotel in Guatemala City. It. Col. AGUILAR DE

LEON did not talk to them on this

occasion and did not

return the call.

• He stated that he had turned the business.

should they receive any additional Information in this

regard, he will make it available.

On 8/13/62,

I the CIA Station,

American Embassy, Guatemala. City,

advised that MIGUELITO

"YDIGORAS, son of President MIGUEL YDIGORAS Of Guatemala,

5) Chad advised him on the previous week that he received a

telephone call from two individuals who, furnished their

names as MITCHELI L. WERBELL and ARTHUR J. SMITH. They

advised that they were staying at the Maya Excelsior Hotel

and said they were waiting for PINeIRo.

They seemed to

think PINEIRO was someone MIGUELITO would know and said

that as soon as he arrived. ther would contact him regard-

ing an important deal

stated that CURLITO

requested any information his office might have on WERBELL,

SMITH and PINEIRO, as he claimed that he did not know any

of these individuals.

Advised that thereafter he had sent a wire

to his headquarters in Washington and received

a reply that

approximately three years ago, MITCHELL I. WERBELL WaS

involved in a plan to ship arms to Ecuador.. His headquarters

advised there was no identifiable information on SMITH.

It was further informed that there is an individual by the

name of

PINEIRO who was

in Cuban G-2,

but it was not known

whether this individual

was identical.

on 8/13/62,

received a telephone

who stated he had just remembered WERBELL and SMITH mentioned

- 2 -

SECRET

ATHT

50953 DocId: 32335498 Page 3

---

