# 124-90137-10488

## Page 1

124-90137-10488

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10488

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 07/27/1961

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

09.1

NH 50953

DooId: 32337722 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

SECRET

L'

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C

7-10-98

FBI INFO

Director!&

CLASSIFIED PY 5668 SLD/ESR

28 JUL

LASSIFY ON: 25A-1

RECEIVED FROM

Federal Bureau of Investigation

JFK

JUL 28 196

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

CIA SJA

Deputy Director, Plans pat

[duardo Bepinose y Prieto, born 24 January 1909

17o Classified My 2813 ADele

Mexico Saty,

BA(SER)

Pirandt,

alicia heri

Fiscates - 100-155

1.

This Agency

aranted rarent

3-1

в -1

or in m man A cere catizen in Bremen, suspected (S

of Polish Intelligence Service activities, received a $1,000.00 deposit in

his accout from Espinosa.]

2.

Your permission is requested to pass the following Information,

some of which was obtained from your files, to

( 5)

Eduardo Espinosa](5)

[born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico, appointed Mexican

Ambassador to warsaw during the summer

of 1960. August 1957 to(g)

summer 1960 accredited to the United Nations Headquarters in NewS

York City with the rank of Ambassador as an Alternate Permanent

Delete to ero not it eare one tet worker * to(s)

was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist

Party activities

2 Не

appears to be a soviet contact, and that his

wife, one

Tamara

pinosa,

ne

was reported tó

services.

have been an agent of the soviet security

She was admitted to Mexico in September 1947. When

Espinosa y Prietowes in Mexico, he was in close touch with thes

N, J

Soviet Embassy and expedited visas for Soviet delegations. The couple

ot de teach with the duple

were particularly friendly with Soviet Ambassador Kapustin during

her mother still resides in the USSR /

1953. Tues, tepsosa brothes died in a soulet prison a 19534 and 65)

Inese facts might indicate a Soviet hold over Espinosa.

opinions collected from persons' who knew Espinösa, when he served in

HA HAS NO OBJECTION

DECLASSIFICATON AND/OR,

penetration agent in the Axis group (in Shanghal) on behalf of the

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

REG- 52

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCOPI FOR bRACKETS

105<34642-456

129

KP 5-18-48

22 AUG 3

1961

SECHET

705- 24642)(6)

FORM NO.

1 NOV 55

8/2/61

(23)

HW 50953 DocId: 32337722 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-2-

USSR, that he was 100% pro-Communist and most dangerous, that

he has been an eagerly cooperative contact of the Soviets in

Mexico for several years, and so on. The bulk of opinions are

IMVD agent.

jerogatory 1a naturer Petrov Identifted Me. SapinoBaJas a)

CSCI-3/766,521

NW 50953

DooId: 32337722

Page 3

---

