# 124-90094-10093

## Page 1

124-90094-10093

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90094-10093

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-2940

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/03/1961

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953

15

DocId: 32331003

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ONAL FORM NO. 1

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

DATE:

10/3/61

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253)

ALE INPORUATION CONTAINERG JEK

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN 5668 SLO/KSR

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECI SPEND/OR ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

OTHERWISE

5-1145

Classified Mr Sor BlAIne

RELF'S

A INTORMATICTS - CUBA

Declassify on: OADR/7//85

IN THIS COCUMENT. EXCOt BRACILETS P 1-19-47 (SL0/4ST

ON pus. ReBulet to Miami dated 9/14/01,

captioned as above,

Bulet to Miami dated 9/26/61, entitled

"CLIP". U

Since 4/17/61, there has been

little organized

anti-CASTRO activity in the Metropolitan New York area.

The

activity which has taken place since April, 1961, has been

dominated by the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD), and

this activity has taken the form of pickets and public meetings.

There has been activity by the Junta de Liberacion Nacional

(JIN, and the individual groups within the Iramework othe

FRD have also sponsored individual meetings.

Dr. CARLOSAPRIO

SOCARRAS, former President of Cuba, was scheduled to hold a

Fl.A

meeting in New York, on 9/30/01, but this meeting was allegedly

cancelled on advice given by unknown individuals from Washington,

D.C.

The following statements are conclusions based upon

information received from established sources and from various

leading figures in the anti-CASTRO field who have been interviewed

on various occasions since 4/17/61. The ideas and conclusions

Dr. ERNESTO

ARAGON, secretary to Dr.

JOSE MIRO CARDONA, President,

of

the Revolutionary Council, EDUARDO GONZALEZ, Coordinator

of the FRD in New York, JOSE GONZALEZ, Financial Secretary of the

FRD in New York, JOSE MESTRE, of "Bohemia Libre"

, and other

individuals who

are in a position to have

firsthand information

from leading anti-CASTRO leaders.

72397

1) ORGANIZATIONS

CLASSIFIED BY 51ele8 SLO/KSK

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

In general, the anti-CASTRO organizations

100815

Vrt.

-Bureau (109-504) RM)

EX.-119

REG 52109-584.

1-Miami (1051742)

1-Washington Field (105-29995) / (InfebpiRMade

N€ OCT

5 1961

I-New York (105-35253)

FJO :mfw

16 Car 4.14.28

(5)

or review at TRiAQ by

58 0CT 171961

S00 SUX1le 483-1172901

In the

2946

SECRET

1TT 50953 DorT0:32331003

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-35253

SECRET

ARAGON said that MIRO CARDONA went to PRIO's residence in

Miami and asked for PRIO's support and anything that PRIO could

do that could enhance the position of the Revolutionary Council.

ARAGON advised that at this meeting PRIO promised his support,

but also asked Dr. MIRO to put several of his, PRIO's, men on

the payroll of the Revolutionary Council. ARAGON stated that Dr.

MIRo told him that the Council did not handle the money, as this

was at that time handled directly by the FRD. ARAGON stated

that Dr. MIRO and CARLOS PRIO have met several times since

and on each occasion Dr. PRIO has informed Dr. MIRO that he is

in support of Dr. MIRO but then PRIO goes on and makes propaganda

which definitely is against Dr. MIRO and in his, PRIO's, favor.

ARAGON advised that as a result of recent statements made by

Dr. PRIO, Dr. MIRO CARDONA no longer has any desire to speak

with CARLOS PRIO.

IY 2865-S advised that in early September, 1961,

he was with GUILLERMO ALONSO PUJOL in New York, and PUJOL

showed him a confidential letter on the stationery of the U.S.

House of Representatives written by VICTOR L. ANFUSO to Secretary

of State DEAN RUSK. NY 2865-S stated he was not sure of the

date of this letter but believed it was 8/27 or 28/61. In this

letter to DEAN RUSK, Representative ANFUSO asked RUSK to

recognize a Cuban government in exile and offer it all the

necessary assistance in order to overthrow the present Cuban

Government.

ANFUSO also, in his letter to RUSK,

stated that

Dr. CARLOS PRIO had supported Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA as

Provisional President in the event such a government in exile

was recognized by the United States (DU)

From information available thusfar,

there does not

appear to be any definite plans on the part of CARLOS PRIO to

set up a government in exile in a Latin country.

The Cuban

exiles are divided about PRIO and the majority of them greatly

question his ability to unify a majority of Cubans.

(4) INVASION EFFORTS

There has been no information received from Cuban

exiles in the Metropolitan New York area indicating any serious

plans to mount an invasion from the US to Cuba.

There are

• also

no reports of any invasion being planned by individuals in the

SECRET

- 6-

ATHT

50953 DocId: 32331003 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET:

5

NY 105-35253

have taken place during July, August and September, 1901g

ARAGON stated that he and Dr. MIRO CARDONA discussed problems

facing the Revolutionary Council and what the Revolutionary

Council believes should be done in the Cuban question. He

A CHAT GOODN

that there was a retired Colonel from the New England area,

now under transfer to Miami, who would act as liaison man between

he was informed by GOODWIN that this man would have complete

authority to make final decisions in all matters. ARAGON

advised that as of 9/25/61, when he last spoke to Dr. MIRO

CARDONA, Dr. MIRO stated that he had not yet been contacted

by this liaison man.

ARAGON also stated that neither he

nor Dr. MIRO CARDONA was given the name of this man, but they

were informed that Dr. MIRO would be contacted by this individual

on his arrival in Florida.

ARAGON also expressed his personal opinionregarding

RICHARD GOODWIN and other advisors at the White House by stating

that they were very brilliant young men who can advance wonderful

theories but cannot put anything into practical working order.

ARAGON also stated that CIA continues to operate

with various underground groups, and these groups are being

Cuba is being built up and it is becoming efficient, but ARAGON

supported by CIA] ARAGON advised that the underground inside & 4)

believes that there is a lack of coordination and a

lack of

authority and although it is possible by underground activity to

overthrow. the present Cuban Government, he believes that

unless this matter of unification is attended to immediately,

the end result could be chaos and untold bloodshed.

ARAGON also stated that his contact at CIA is one

with whom he is in regular contact and who

Turnishes him money which he carries to Miami for Dr. MIRO CARDONA.!

a financial cut by CIA and this,]to a great extent, has

hampered the activity of the Revolutionary Council. ARAGÓN

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32331003 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY 105-35253

further advised that Dr. MIRO CARDONA is considering increasing

the Revolutionary Council by four, and he, ARAGON, had given

the names of the four individuals

to ROBERT HURWITCH, of State

Department, to see if the State Department opposed any of these

individuals.

and CONIE AGUERO. ARAGON advised\ that he furnished these names

to ROBERT HURWITCH on 9/20/61, and he had

to go to Washington

on 9/21/01 to see.

to pick up some money, and upon meeting

informed him that the four people proposed &

for the Revolutionary Council by Dr. MIRO were acceptable to

CIA) and stated that as a general rule of thumb, Dr. MIRO car

select anyone he wants but must exclude all Batistianos, Communists

and fellow travelers.

ARAGON stated that he was not entirely optimistic

about the future of Cuba.

ARAGON said that the Cuban people

cannot be entirely unified as there are so many politically

ambitious leaders among the exiles and there are many jealousies

and there is much criticism leveled against the Revolutionary

gauch on to am severed.

Council and the United States Government because of the

unsuccessful invasion of April, 1961.

ARAGON advised that the

bedieved that the Cuban Government was weakened day by day,

that the underground would eventually overthrow CASTRO, together

with the economic hardships which the Cuban Government is

suffering, but without a strong unifiedopposition and 100

per cent cooperation from the United States, he saw a very

unhappy picture for Cuba in years to come.

The Bureau is respectfully requested that if the

above information is disseminated, extreme care be used concerning

information furnished by ERNESTO ARAGON. ARAGON has cooperated

fully with the New York Office, is cognizant of what is being

done with the Revolutionary Council and Dr. MIRO CARDONA in

particular. It is also pointed out that at some of these meetings

at the White House there were only two or three individuals

present and his identity could easily be determined if information

furnished by him is not properly paraphrased.

SECRET

17 50953 DoCTO: 32331003

Page 5

---

