# 124-90110-10101

## Page 1

124-90110-10101

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90110-10101

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-12-223-131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/07/1959

20

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

PANAMANIAN REVOUTIONAR YI ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32334108

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 109-43

SECRET

MC CLAIN was traveling on United States Passport

(9/2085 issued by the United States Embassy, Panama City,

Panama, September 30, 1946. His date of

birth was

September 27, 1922, Panama City,

170 pounds, red halt, srey eyes. DC CAucated

yate male,

he was going to visit his in laws, Mr.

and Mrs B. J. ADAMS,

GEr Route 3, Pine eland Fort Myero, Fiorida, and thra

return to Panama City.

On March 19, 1959, JOSEPH MEROLA Informed that

MIRO had been In

contact with an intelligence mar fron

Panama believed staying at the Columbus Hotel. This person

brought MIRO word that his revolutionary plans In Panama

were known and warned him that he would be shot on sight.

MEROLA said that this "intelligence man" questioned MIRO

concerning MEROLA.

MIRO offered to Introduce MeROlA to him,

however, this intelligence man declined to aecept..

Investigation disclosed that MC CLAIN checked out

of the Columbus Hotel at 3:05 p.I., Eastem Standard Time,

March 20, 1959.

At 3:35 p.l., Eastem Standard Time, JOSEPH MEROLA

Informed he had just received a telephone call from MIRO

stating that he was a the airport departing for Cuba and

did not plan to return. MIRO disclosed to MEROLA that his

contact at the Columbus Hotel had been interviewed by the

FBI and that both had the feeling they were being followed

and activities checked.

Sit appeared possible to the Miant Office that

might be a CIA representative.

Bureau was

requested to contact CIA in attempt to

confirm same

By airtel dated March 22, 1959, the Bureau

informed

that

It had been advised by CIA through liaison, that

- COVER PACE •

SEGRET

ATHT

70953

DooId:32334108 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 109-443

SECRET

1 euta preciate a bread rohat deerusted thail)

no further investigation was desired relative to

It should be noted that on March 26, 1959, JOSEPH

MEROLA contacted the Miami Office and informed that

be was.

Leaving for Havana, Cuba, at 12:45 p.ll.,. Easter Standard

Time, on that date.

It should be noted that a true bill

of indictment was returned against MEROLA by a Federal

Grand Jury at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, In conmection with

the case entitled, "STUARI SUTOR, ETAL,

Theft of Government

Property," Involving theft of arma from National Guard

Armosy, Canton, Ohio, October 14, 1958. Indictment was

returned on March 20, 1959, and MEROLA 18 presently free

under $5, 000.00 bond

posted

at Miami, Florida.

MEROLA Informed that since March 20, 1959, he has

had

several telephonic conversations with RUBEN MIRO who was

at that time in Havana, Cuba.

MIRO had told him the

Plans of the invasion of Panama had been delayed until after

the Easter holidays.

MEROLA stated his purpose In going to Havana is

personal business reasons and not in any way connected with

Panamanian revolutionary activities or for that matter

revolutionary activitles of any nature.

MEROLA stated he would contact the Miami Office

of the FBI upon his return from Havana In order to furnish

any pertinent information regarding the Panamantan political

situation.

He stated, however, he did not know specifically

when he would return.

It should be noted that information furnished by

MEROLA has been on a voluntary and confidential basis.

' •I

• COVER PAGE

SECRET

ATHT

70953

DooId:32334108 Page 3

---

