# 124-90158-10016

## Page 1

1124-90158-10016|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10016

HQ

CR 105-166639-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

WANNELL

SULLIVAN

DATE: 05/05/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN PAVILION

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

V9.1

NH 50953

3

DocId: 32340359

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 11

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECKE

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1

- Mr. Wick

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

TO

W. C. SullivanDECLASSICATION ANDSAME:

May 5, 1967

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

PROM

W. R. WannallWeis DOCUMENT

МЕОр BRACKLETS ME

Rosen

SE016860

SITDATTITISI

Sullivan

Tolson -

De Loach

Mohr

Wiek

Cas

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Sail van

'avel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

2-4-481 - Mr.

- Liaison

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEL TAMAYO

Wannall

I - Mr• Nasca

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS

Threat to Bom EXPO 67

CURAN PAViLION

MUTIALE

Montreal,

Canada

326 sues way

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Classifi

By TALEC

4-16-98

Thie de to advige of action beine satant to eat te

an unverified allegation

that subject Rodriguez Tamayo, an anti-Castro Cuban, and

others may

Involved in a plot to bomb the Cuban Pavilion at

SXPO 67.

(4)

5668

Miami by teletype 5/4/67 reported CIA on 5/4/67 made Cuit:

25X

available one of its sources (Luis Posada, Cuban with whom Miami 7/9

Office has been in contact in the past and considers reliable, tor

CLASSIFIED BY

2

interview. The source stated that subject (Rodriguez Tamayo) was

attempting to obtain detonators for use in preparing bombs to be

SSIFY

placed at various places, possibly in trash receptacles, at the

Cuban Pavilion at EXPO 67.

Subject indicated he already had four

detonators and needed more.

The detonators were to be used to

detonate a quantity of C-4 explosives placed in a hard-type Marlboro

DECI

cigarette pack (1)

furnished to himon 4/30/67

he needed the detonators by 5 p.m. on 5/1/67 as two unnamed American

citizens would be taking the explosives and detonators to canada

source stated that on the night of 5/1/67 he was in

contact with Rodriguez Tamayo who indicated he had been unable to

obtain the additional detonators and said it was "too late anyway,"

possibly indicating the two Americans had already departed.

Source

nfelt perhaps Rodriguez Tamayo may have been merely boasting

ATI INFOR

concerning

• this matter (a

BEC-35 100

In

view of the seriousness of the allegation,

we disseminated

immediately by 'téletype to State, CIA, Secret-Service and the

Attache, ve telephonically turnished the information to legal

for dissemination to the Royal Canadian Mounted Polic

• li

GCM: ams

(8)

msc

(м)

Sor/reviow at IBIlo CONTINUED - OVER

MAY

N# 50953

221957m2

kpsea.nepof 14/22/27

Page

SE REVERSE

SID

CLASSIRICATION

SECRET

ACTION

UNRECORDED

COPY FILET

---

