# 124-10300-10077

## Page 1

124-10300-10077

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10300-10077

HQ

CR 92-6692-89

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

WELSH, WARREN R.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/12/1967

16

NRO, ASSOC, BKG, RES, CRIM ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HN 50953

DooId: 32309711

Page

1

14

---

## Page 2

17-651

IRTINE OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRETI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

MIAMI

7/12/67

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/31/67-7/10/67

REPORT MADE BY

WAkEN R. WELSH

CHARACTER OF CASE

FRANK LANG "LEFTY" ROSENTHAL,

Aka

(5K) 11/12/46

CLASSINED BY 56685U0/GCL

DECLASSIFY 0.20X_(1)

SEE REVERSE

SIDE

CR

AR; IGA

CLAS

FICATION

ACTION

REFERENCES:

ROTRIATE AGENCI

AND FIELD OFFICE"

ADVISED BI

NG

/ STIP(S) 0

DATE

Report of SA WARREN R. WELSH, dated 8/10/65

at Miami.

Report of SA WARREN R. WELSH, dated 6/16/67.

at Miami.

Miami teletype to the Bureau 6/22/67. 4:

Bureau teletype to Miami 6/23/67.w 4Sgt

Chicago airtel to Miami 6/29/67.

-P-

Kied by 1

ENCLOSURES TO THE BUREAU (2) :

6059

iTHFORNATION CONTAINED Original and one copy of letterhead

me mor andum

KNISH

characterizing informants utilized

in this --

CE

# 211,326

ASRVISE

Classified by

LSPiBIA/iCL

MIAMI:

pare

Declassify

OADR /28/35

se hds been: Pending ove

PROVED

IES MADE:

overgretonths DYes I No

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

191

SERGENT

IN CHARGE

- Bureau (92-6692) (E

nes=2,

REGATH

- USA, Miami

Attn: Departmental Attorney

WALLACE JOHNSON

NA HAS NO OBJECTION TU

- Chicago 992-2295) (In DECLASSICATIOR ANGRA 7 1961

- Miami (92-726)

RELEASE IN CIA INFORMATION,

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS

Dissembation Record of Attached Report

141pt6)

4/70/67

Notations

Kp 2-8-98

SECT

fecd.

wd.

vd.

26

TUL &0 1967

SOR REVERSE

SIDI FOR

CLASSIFICATION

PSECT

ACIO

HW 50953 DooId:32309711 Page 2

---

## Page 3

.."

*.

138/52/1

84/91/21

HP/95587-618

NN 50953 DocId: 32309711 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MM 92-726

BOMBINGS - MIAMI AREA

JANUARY - JUNE

196'

A. CONTACTS WITH LUIS POSADA CARRIES, 6P

form information received ivld 2r,m1a reliable source.

source was later identified as LUIS POSADA CARRILES J

POSADA arised that DIEGO BORGES was acting as

an agent

for three Americans who were seeking to buy pistols,

explosives,

blasting caps, hand grenades and silencers. The

identity of the Americans was not known to POSADAjalthough u

e believed they were mee

the ku Klux Klan or possibly

che John Birch society. (

[POSADA provided the following background informa-

tion concerning individuals involved with BORGES in the

procurement of arms and munitions by the three Americans:

HERMINIO DIAL, 132 N. W. 3rd Street, Miami,

sold sixty hand

grenades (USMK IT to BORGES

for delivery to Americans.

DIAZ reCeived from BORGES three

hundred sixty dollars for grenades but delivered only forty.

Subsequently, BORGES asked source to go to DIAZ and either

dollar in cash union toy sepresented sun yenty

RAMON ESCARDA, 620 S. W. 9th Street, who served

in the U. S. Army, 1958-1959, was supposed to

obtain one

hundred pounds

pentolite for delivery to BORGES for

$320-350.

3

FRANK TAMAYO, 3213 S. W: 8th Street, Miami, active

in anti CASTRO activities,

sold

.622 caliber silencers to

Americans for $1, 000. 5

Source gave

(4)

descriptions of three Americans

and

also recorded license

plate of car utilized by group. T5D(U)

-COVER PAGE -

PECRET

NN 50953 DocId: 32309711 Page 1

---

## Page 5

'SECREL

MM 92-726

that

Departmental Attorney JOHNSON further recommended

LUIS POSADA be contacted in regard to the present

address of ALBERTO LARRAIN-MAESTRE, who

is a Narcotics

fugitive.

This meet between source and MAESTRE would be

covered by Bureau Agents and Agents of the Federal Bureau

of Narcotics. The purpose of coverage would be to establish

the present whereabouts of the fugitive so that his arrest

could be effectuated.

"so chac his arabit

Attorney JOHNSON that MAESTRE could possibly be used as

a witness against FRANK ROSENTHAL and NORMAN ROTHMAN

garding their involvement in bombing matters.

On July 7, 1967; a conference was held at the

request of Departmental Attorney JOHNSON.

In attendance

at this conference were JAMES DURANT and DAVE GOODHART

of the State's Attorney's Office, Dade County, Florida,.

and SAs. SWINNEY and WELSH of the

FBI.

The above mentioned course of action recommended

by Departmental Attorney JOHNSON was fully explained to

insofar as the involvement of ROSENTHAL.

Although the general plan involving ROSENTHAL was explained

to the local authorities, at no time was the source or the

employer of source mentioned to local authorities.

Assistant States Attorney DURANT, when apprised

of the sensitive source of information and

the chance of

requesting dismissa, of indictment against ROSENtHAL, re-

quested time in order that this proposal could be full

discussed with States Attorney GERSTEIN.

- INFORMANTS -

MM T-1 is MARTIN DARDIS.

MM T-2 is MM 950-C.

MM T-3 is MM 676-C.

MM T-4 is MM 869-ĐC.

-COVER PAGE -

FSECRET

300.20401

HW 50953

DocId: 32309711 Page 5

---

