# 124-10369-10049

## Page 1

124-10369-10049

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10369-10049

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-H9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

USSS

TITLE :

DATE: 12/19/1969

• PAGES: 289

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME XXI

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, LIST, MEMO, A/T, LET, R/S, S/S, RAPSHEET, TTY, INSERT, FD-302, ENV,

TABS, NOTE, DRAFT MEMO, COURT ORDER, NEWS RELEASE

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32319415

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

SAC, New Yorks (65-23422)

Director, FBI (55-09127)

15RO7e.

MICHAEL, JELIBAVCIC, akR

11/6/69

Mr o

Goble

- Ar.

McW111ams

B9/121999150

STATE DEPH

SPORTA GEL - 211, 326-46/28/90

Reference in made to Dapartment of State teleme

dated 10/2/00 fron Babusy hoscow,

to State Hendquartere

Shich reported subject mas ordered by the Boviets on 10/29/6.

• Coples of relorenced telegran vere

(W) prevousty turnieted to lew York and Chicago.

to

• the

(New York should renain alert to return of subject

•United States for the purpose of interion concurlas

Informntion on lim prevlously turninhed by "Eemmy."

Fonz

In mind during any forthcoming interview that the Sovlota

neve in the pist exeted 1n2v1ds4.6 iron the 10n to COVT

the fact he fa # developed KGB arent Subject should almo

be questioned concerning his one and phone punber being

in the addres book of loe Harvey Ourald.

33/99

ten 345668-140/mle

- Chicago

. = 070 (65-9483)

DECLASSIFY ON: 20X.

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIN IS UNOLAESAFIED

EXCRET INUNS SHONS

ORHBRX132

A 24,306

MULTIRE

Classified

Sources, banGle

Deulassity

OX: 0ADR 2-40-84

IM: as

NOTE:

(7)

Sammy •

soviet detector-in-place, advised that the th

Department, KGB, had been moünting

operab on atnat tarosubject

in Moscow.

We are desirous of

Interviewing subject concerning what he knows about the operation

against him.

It should be noted this Arsenit ippel,

predecessor

of subject in Moscow, was recruited Line ice and i

mE admitted same.

CIA INFRIN'NOTE" CLASSIFIER

DER CTR. 0T0 417/86

CIA HAS NO SENEGTION TO FUTZ COT

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

9415/886

DECLASSTACAS RIDOR.

#210,37%

DO CITORMATION

IN THEres

AM 3)

1/99

LEBECRET

50953 DooId: 32319415

Page 2

---

## Page 3

at man end did do

VENTIAL

TO

HOW AS SANITIED

IN TAJ COsamant CIC - 3/10/97)

(STATE DEPT INTO IS DECLASSIFIED

PER SAWLARON

10/25095)

CBONKETED INFO

CLASSIFIED

UPGRADES. tO SECRET PERCIA)

Honorable William P. Rogers

Secretary of State

Washington, D.C.

5601 Potomac Avenue,

N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20016

July 25; 1969

Dos

REVIEWED BY FOWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

8-10-2

нек

TO RELEASE IN FULL

E. REAGE IN PART

C ? %. DEMIAL

Dear Mr. Secretary:

In winding up my affairs at the Department of State, there is a pend-

ing matter which I believe merits your attention.

Lee Harvey Oswald, the presumed assassin of President Kennedy, was

alledgedly present at a party given by a Mexican communist sympathizer

and attended by the Cuban Consul, a veteran intelligence officer, when

he was in Mexico shortly before the assassination.

There are allega

tions that the Mexican Government may have been aware of Oswald's

presence at that party and that the Cuban Government may have tried to

intimidate others who saw him there.

A careful investigation of these allegations could perhaps explain

them

away. Until then, however, their public disclosure could reopen

the debate about the true nature of the Kennedy assassination and

damage the credibility of the Warren Report.

Since I was the Embassy officer in Mexico who acquired this intelli-

gence information, I feel a responsibility for seeing it through to

Pits final evaluation. Accordingly, I have prepared a memorandum

#(enclosed) explaining this information and its initial assessment, keyed

¿to three memoranda of conversations with my Mexican informant.

I believe you would want to consider carefully whether to let well

enough alone in this case, or whether the risks attending possible

public disclosure of these allegations make further investigation

warranted

Respectfully

Charles William Thomas

Enclosure:

Memorandum and four attachments.

IT 50953

DooId:32319415 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

CIA HAS ME ARIECTION TO

D'C

July 25, 1969

GINATION AS SANITIZED

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Investigation of Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico

I. While serving as Political Officer in the U.S. Embassy in Mexico

• City from 1964 to 1967, I became quite friendly with the Mexican play-

right, Elena Garro de Paz.. An intellegent, witty, and outspoken woman,

I found her a very useful if sometimes biased source of political gossip

and personal history on significant Mexican personalities.

She introduced

my wife and me to many important people in Mexico.

She was also, parti-

cularly knowledgeable about agrarian affairs. A biographic report that

I prepared on her on May 3, 1966 is attached (Tab A) :

2.

On one occasion, Miss Garro inadvertently mentioned to me that she

had been at a party with Lee Harvey Oswald and two American companions

when Oswald was in Mexico just before the Kennedy assassination.

The

party had been at the home of her cousin, Ruben Duran.

• The memorandum

of that conversation, dated December 10, 1965, is attached

had not read the Warren Report, but I assumed that if Oswald had been

to such a party in Mexico, it would have been well known to the Embassy.

I also knew Miss Garro to be something of a professional anti-communist

who tended to see a communist plot behind any untoward political event.

However, the episode about her being escorted into hiding at an obscure

hotel intrigued me. Accordingly, I decided to report the matter in

writing. I gave the memorandum of conversation limited distribution

within the Embassy, and did not send any copies to Washington.

sio need eye ate , a

with interest my December 10 memorandum of conversation.

They pointed

proved false.

They asked me, however,

to try and get a more detailed

replay of Miss Garro's story.

Mr. Scott made clear that the FBI had full

responsibility for any further investigations of the Oswald case!

4. In a memorandum of conversation dated December 25, 1965 (Tab C), I

provided a much more detailed and accurate restatement of Miss Garro's

alleged encounter with Oswald and subsequent developments.

Certain errors

in my original presentation were corrected.

Miss Garro guessed that the

date of the party at her cousin's house was' in early September, 1963. She

admitted that she had gone to the Embassy to report briefly about this matter

on an earlier occasion.

NY 50953 DocId: 32319415 Page

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(CONFIDENTIAL

3

Durans after the assassination about a party which Oswald had reportedly .

attended, but that the transcript of the interrogation was entirely

unsatisfactory by normal investigatory standards. Furthermore, the party

inquired about was not the one at Ruben Duran's house, reported by

Elena Garro, but at an entirely different place. This transcript may

well be the source of Mr. Ferris! belief that Elena Garro's story. had been

checked out and found to be untrue.:

10.

It would appear: that whereas the FBI has discounted the Elena Garro

allegations, the CIA is still considerably disturbed by them. The CIA

may not have pressed for further investigation, however, for a number of

reasons: 1) considering the sensitive overlap and subtle competition

between two intelligence collecting agencies, it had to yield to the

"Bi's clear jurisdictions?) there are obvious complications in conducting

such an investigation in a foreign country; 3) there is a L

relationship between the CIA Station Chief and E

and 4) some of the people C

appearing in the Elena Garro scenario may well be agents of the CIA.

Under

the circumstances it is unlikely that any further investigation of this

matter will ever take place unless it is ordered by a high official in

Washington.

If all the allegations in the attached memoranda were true, they

would not, in themselves, prove that there was a conspiracy to assassinate

President Kennedy. However, if they were ever made public, those who

have tried to discredit the Warren Report could have a field day in

speculating about their implications. The credibility of the Warren Report.

would be damaged all the more if it were learned that these allegations

were known and never adequately investigated by the

competent American

authorities.

12. Reference is made again to the biographic report (Tab A) on Elena

Garro.

She is hardly an ordinary or average person. Her strengths and

weaknesses become exaggerated precisely because she is not. It would

be easy and convenient to sweep this matter under the rug by claiming

that Miss Garro is an unreliable informant since she is emotional,

opinionated, and "artistic." I have been affected at times by that

temptation, myself. No American official, however, knows her better than

I do. On the basis of the facts that I have presented, I believe that,

on balance, the matter warrants further investigation.

13. Finally, the record should show that a representative of a major

American publication has at least some knowledge of

this story.

Charles William Thomas

July. 25, 1969

-CON

SECRET

ITH

50953 DooId: 32319415 Page 5

---

## Page 6

N7: 50953

DocId: 32319415

Page

6

---

## Page 7

118768 PD NO. 110-282

NH 50953

Docld:32319415

Page 7

Bunche

---

## Page 8

DIRECTOR, FBI

7/15/69

SIC, LFO (62-0-19290)

ARE INFORMATICE CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UND AST 2 2022

THERE SUCK C0 GaV1C4.

SAMUEL P. BERZON

MISCALL NEOUS - INFORMATION CONCENING;

IS - ISR/EL

02/33/98:51068348 ful

DECLASSIFY ON; 25X

BelFOlet to Bureau dated 1/7/63, under first

character above, no copy lt, which enclosed a copy of a

letter dated 12/9/62, from subject to INS and in which he

indicated he had ettended the U.S. Naval icademy. A copy

of subject's letter is enclosed for the information of uP.

For the additional infomation of the Bureau and

I, on 7/20/69. 07 569-S* reported thee s vort L- 8r201 (sp),[5]

contacted the limbossy of Israel, fror Minnesots, exact CS.

Location not obtained by informant, at which time he

Inquired of liss iNI cOuL CK, a secretory at the Embassy, CS_

as to the status of a letter he had written to the imbassy

a few weeks ago.

POLL /CK asked as to the neture of the

contents of the letter and subject said he did not cara

to discuss its contents over the telephone. Horever, he

did state he has quite a military beckground in the U..;

Bas not been nose to get clestance to servelin the Israeli

[5.

vefense Forces, since he might lose his citizenship, but

thought [the Israelt might find sorething suitable for him. (5

Ile mentloned that his letter slso contoins many things of

= political nature', which he thought the Israelis should E5

know about; that he had been(to the Embassy a couple of CS

yeers ago; that he could not solo Israel]then and that he (5J

could not reveal the reason thy, but that he told ell ubout

this in the letter.

iccording to informant, (roll Cdid not give subject (SJ

an affirmative anaver as to the status of his letter, or as

to what action would be taken in the matter.

© - Bureau

(1 - 105-10829) CENBESY OF ISRAELI (5)

2 - Minneapolis (Ene. 1) (311)

2 - FFO

(1 - [205-524) (ENBASSY OF ISRAJ (5)

HH

50953 DocId: 32319415 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MTC 62-0-19290

If Information EromE 569-s*ls disseminated, (SU

it should be classifled "Secret - Ho Foreign Dissemination"

and should be suitably, paraphrased, since it contains

intormation turnished byle sensitive source in the Isreeli

C5

field. In the event IT prepares e comunication which may

subsequently be disseminated and which includes information

fronEr 568-S* the cover communication should explicitly (S

state that the Ill, or report, contains information which

should be designated EsCOrt. The Bureau will stamp the CS

document prior to dissemination.

Sinca there is no indicotion that subject is presently

In the Amed Services, it being noted that in his letter to

Ills, ebove, he

furnished his employment as Vitro Laboratories,

Silver Spring, lld., and the fact that his exact location 1s

unknown, no recormendation is being made to further identify

subject. However, IP should search its Indices on subject

and furnish the Bureau and WFO the results thereof, It is

further requested that i designate a copy of its zepty to

the Dureau end

• NFO tales on the Embassy of Israel.S

SECRET

- 2=

NH 50953 DocId: 32319415 Page 9

---

