# 124-90092-10016

## Page 1

124-90092-10016

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90092-10016

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-67235-648

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/05/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: RPT

y9.1

HH 50953

9

DocId: 32330771

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

WFOX65-8517

AWN: 15p/jet/mfm

I.

II.

III.

IV..

V.

VI.I

VII.

VIII.

IX.

СОДІРЛІ

¿CIA EFFORTS TO PENETRATE USSR

INTERVIEW OF

13

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE, RESEARCH AND

ANALYSIS, TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES,

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA

INTERVIEW OF JAMES CRITCHFIELD,

24

NEAR EAST-SUB ASIAN DIVISION,

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA

INTERVIEW OF WILLIAM K. HARVEY,

29

CIA

INTERVIEW OF

CHEMIST,

33

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, TECHNICAL

SERVICES DIVISION, CIA

INTERVIEW OF SERGE PETER KARLOW, CIA

(561)

43(4)

(A) Assignment

Detachment

to patical side (solu

78

Germany,

Tenure at TAD

Exavor to Borlin(34)(4(4)

(Tenure as

Secretary of Technical

Requirements Board (TRB) 7 1958

[1.959.](5(1/(4)

(595/0)

INTERVIEW OF MRS. FERIDA KARLOW

(4)

INTERVIEW OF MRS. PETER KARLOW

INTERVIEW

: OF

(u)

CIA

97

115

118

123

EN MEAT OM

PISE IR BURSTI

CROSS CRaNe b13m02

-45-

7H 50953 DOCTO: 32330771

Page 2

---

## Page 3

W0/65-8527

SECRET

($4X5T Knew oe no relatives of the KARLOWs living abroad

nor was he aware of any financial interests which either of theSe

KARLOWs held in Germany XIn discussing KARLOW's associates,

furnished, the following

individuals as being KARLOW's overseas

GORDON STEWART, Head of the CIA!

WILLIAM K. HARVEY, CIA representative in Berlin

KIA representative at Berlin

CIA official in Germany.

in associating with "front office personnel; that when KARLOW did

mingle with the co-workers, it was more or less an act of

condescendence."*

(5X)(4)

advised that because of the wide area that TAD

was servicing in behalf of CLA

I TAD personnel be constantly travelline ary

that a number

remarked that

he was travelling steadily and that KARLOW was a frequent

traveler in behalf of IADS could recall no specific dates

of trips by KARLow during the period 190 to 1953, but

furnished the following in this regard

estimated that KARLOW probably made 12 to 15 trips

to Vienna

during this period for Agency purposes.

He recalled

"that the Agency was servicing a number of requests from Vienna;

time, "We had a riotous operation going ther ula

Teeded some help (SL Jbelieved that

furnish substant

information regarding KARLOW's activities

in Vienna

recalled that during this particular period there

wEre

no

travel restrictions on American personnel in and around

Vienna; that frequently one was not aware he was even in a

Soviet zone S

could not recall

how long KARLOW remained in

Vienna on his trips there

CS HOE ME

- 40

SECRET

HH

50953 DocId: 32330771 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

NF0165-851"

AT 50*

was not sure of the date.

He mentioned HOUCK was still Chief

of Base at Berlinend said he saw HOUCk:

KARLOW explained that

military orders were necessary for any travel into Berlin,

including flight by Pan American Airways, which also operated

under military control.

He stated the orders for travel by El

travel ost somal, she a chock by the Soviets was

men from TAD,

ras stationed in ferlinolnder the name

OI DANIELIO ' NEILL

He thought

this was in 1951 or after 1951.

He also stated that

other men from TAD had temporary duty in Berlin and recalled

vaguely the photography men had set up some new equipment and

dark room there,

Shad visited Berlin in connection

with

some.

Polish matter, WESLEY PARCELLS on some German

things

and

the chemist, in connection with some cas

KARLOW said he could not say whether he was

in Berlin

In August, 1951, but recalled he was there on at least one

occasion in the summer because

the sun rose in the morning

early xenembered

I how early

HARRY

KOSITZKE

KARLOW stated he rarely became involved™

operations

and was usually occupied in making arrangements and setting things

up for use of the facilities of TAD. He

recalled, however:

involved in an operation with

And HARRY, ROSITZKE 01

the SR (Soviet Russia) Division and flew to Berlin

KARLOW explained the operation involved a planned

attempt to steal the latest model MIG fighter plane and great

preparation had been made but at the last minute the adventure

was called offshecause of possible political and diplomatic

repercussions

/(S)

TES

KARLOW first said he was

unable to recall visiting

Berlin in 1953 but later said he recalled seeing WILLIAM K.

HARVEY,

Chief of Station, (December, 1952, to August, 1959) on more than

one occasion so he supposes

he did make such visits.

When

informed that it was understood that KARLOW had been to Berlin

ten to fifteen times in the period 1950 - 1953, KARLOW offered

no objection and said it was possible that this was true.

With

reference to his later assignment in Munich from November, 1953,

to the end of 1955, KARLOW stated he was

fairly certain he had

not visited Berlin during this periodS RU

HEINES

GAS 06400 Men

= 83=

SECREA

NH 50953 DocId: 32330771 Page 4'

---

## Page 5

WFO 105-8517

MAT jet

SECRET

KARLOW stated he had stayed with Agency associates on

some visits to Berlin and on one or more occasions he stayed

the Harnach House, an Army guest house for the Berlin command

KARLOW further advised that before his marriage he

and his mother had visited Italy and Corsica, and also the

Austrian spa town of Bad Gastein and thought that may have

been

during the Summer of 1951.

le said on a second TriR to thos

reas he was accompanied by hismother and his wife S

KARLOW also stated that after his marriage he and

his

vife had gone to Corsica on two occasions, and to Rome, and hac

spent New Years Eve 1952 - 1953 at a small town in Austria.

These were purely personal trips.

He said he did not recal

having taken a trip to Berlin for purely personal purposes

KARLOW stated that before their marriage "LIBBY"

RAUSCH had gone to Berlin and stayed at the residence of

WILLIAM K. HARVEY.

KARLOW said he had not visited Berlin with

"LIBBY" before marriage but recalled he had dope so on one

occasion after marriage and he recollected he had

become i11

on the train from some oysters he had eaten

1950,

he proceeded

to

as Chief of TAD which was located

had mail address APO 709.

KARLOW resIded In an aparthent

KARLOW advised when he

locuted an dante at consisted of only about nine

collection KARLOW identified TAD personnel

as follows: >1

Major

HARRIS, the previous Chief

and a

former officer of National Security Agency, (NSA)

Captain GUY DRENNAN, also formerly with

NSA, and

currently night duty Officer with

the

Intelligence Branch of

the Department of State; and

a civilian

scientist-chemist, who

became

deputy of KARLOW ald had a small laboratory with

several

technicians

and operate

what KARLOW described as a postal

censorship;

and

141 Ca C py

SECRET

- 84A3

TA ARAGE

NH 50953 DocId: 32330771 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(/U)

65-8517

DEW: 1pr

SECRET

SECRET

2

today is closely similar to that of his appearance 15 years

ago.

He said he has never worn glasses and his weight

has increased only ten pounds since he was in college and

it has never varied more than char

any time. He said

he has never worn a mustache.

(u)

Late in the interview,

Said upon turther

recollection he remembers contacting a Professor HAROLD

MOSELEY, who was Head of Soviet Studies at Columbia Univercity

In New York City, When

was recruiting employees.

said that upon thoughtful consideration of his activities at

that time he recalled that there was a CIA interest in ob

taining a well-qualified man for a position in Moscow..

He

said efforts were being made to find a man who was to have

This person to be hired

supposed to have a fluent command of the Russian language

and he had to be of Anglo-Saxon descent. He said CIA gave

instructions that the man to be placed in the position in

Moscow could not be of Slovak descent

said it is

possible that HAROLD MOSELEY referred

as

a prospective employee for the position in Mostow

but at this time he has no recollection of either the name

or the face of

_SHe said he could definitely state

he had never taken any recruit to Admiral HILLENKOTTER tO

discuss employment

not believe he has

dove no has ever knot

said he does not know and does

the identity of any CIA cE

employee in Moscow, Russia

F153 I8 GETT

Said he is unable

explain why

would have addressed any correspondence relating to his CIA

employment to an individual using the name of

He

curther said he cannot understand why correspondence woul

have been addressed to

In New York City wit

an address on the bottom of the letter

Street SN. W. Washington, D.

C. 'EDULIN said he

had never authorized HARRY ROSITZKE

or WILLIAM HARVEY tO

use his name and address as a cover

An

correspondence re-

lating

to recruitment of employees

Said he is acquainted with

HARRY A, ROSITZKE,

who is also employed with CIA.©

said his association

with ROSITZKE is not now and has never been close.

he is unable to recall exactly when he became acquainted

with ROSITZKE but he associates their meeting with a period

shortly following World War II. He is unable to state how

they became acquainted because

they have never been assigned

to the same work.. They have never lunched together and they

SACRES

- 124 -

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId:32330771

Page 6

---

## Page 7

WFO/65-8517

AWN: mim

HARVEY, WILLIAM K.

HARVEY.

Mrs. WILLTAM K.

HELMS, RICHARD

(Deceased)

HIDDENKOTTER.

Admiral

HOUCK, LESTER C.

HOUSTON, LAWRENCE R.

IN-EXFILTRATION PANEL, TRB

(Deceased)

DAN GOUNG DUNALD

JESSELL, WALTER

JOHNSON, QUENTIN

(JOUBLANC, JOSEPH CHARLES (JAY)

KALNAY; FRANCIS

KALNAY, FRANK

KARLOW,

ELIZABETH (LIBBY)

KARLOW, FERIDA

KARLOW, SERGE PETER

KARLOW, SONJA

KAUFrMAN,

WALTER

J

KAUFMAN,

JOHN HEIDEN(S)

KHOKHLOV, NIKOLAI

KHRUSHCHEV, NIKITA

KIRKPATRICK,

; LYMAN B.

Page

29,

38

82

58

109

34,

78

56

35

124,

72

87,

82

102

14

115

70,

70,

70

113

107

40

98

35

72

61

28

27

43

46,

18,

79

102

67

98,

111

97

95

63

63

63

40

83

85

97

125,

106

115

115

83,

73

42,

29

55

24,

104

87

88,

39,

81

84,

124

126

94,

115

118

SECRET

133

1THT

70953 DocId: 32330771

Page 7

---

