# 124-90139-10031

## Page 1

124-90139-10031

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10031

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-3347

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: JEVONS

TO: CONRAD

TITLE:

DATE: 10/25/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

UNKNOWN DEVICE FOUND ON CUBAN BEACH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

#H 50953 DocId: 32337904

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

= +4

F. DeD

CASTRO

Aerovitres

¿TONAL FORM NO. YÔ

UNITED STATES GOVERS MENT

Memorandum

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

SECRET Proach

Evans

Malone -

Rosen

TO

: Mr. Conrad

DATE: October 25, 1962

Sullivan -

Tavel —

"rotter

Tele. Room

FROM

Ro Ilo Jevons!

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Holmes -

Gandy

DACLASCIACATION AND/UH

RELEASE CE MA INFORIAATION

SUBJECT: UNKNOWN DEVICE FOUND

ON CUBAN BEACH

KP 11-14-97

On Sunday, October 21, 1962, Mr.

the Central Intelligence Agency

(CIA)

l a Lead capsule

to the

FBI Laboratory for the purpose of identifying

gray-appearing powder

contained in a well inside the capsule.

eons

This capsule was reportedly recovered from a Cuban beach

by an individual who said it was one of many which were being

unloaded from a Soviet submarine.

ne instant device reportedl

ell from a wheelbarrow being used for transport. 5408(4

It was reported to the Laboratory that the Atomic,

Biological and Chemical Division of the Office of Special

nvestigations had checked the capsule for the presence of radic

active and biological warfare agents with negative results D("

Approximately 8 1/2 grams of a mechanical mixture of

ground glass (55%) and ground sintered iron particles (45%)

constituted the powder inside the well in the lead capsule.

present in the powder were several opaque crystals of potassium

rous of sinters ho fron setal dental ingredient as a

The lead cylinder itself measured 3" high, was 1 9/16"

in diameter and bore a 1/2" diameter hole having 11

1/2 threads per

inch, which 1s

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

I

- Mr • Belmont

pand fran!

Mr & DeLoach

(JFK)

RE6-909-584-3347

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINM

7748.

Mr. Sullivan

Đ

OCT 80 1967

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

1 - Liaison

Attention: Mr. Papich

EACEPT WHERE SHOWD

OTHERWISE

Enclosure

WRH: SLB (10)

109-584

JOSH 229, Tut.

AFPEAL #

CIVILACT. #

7. 0. # 18354

DATE

2/10/86 INITIALS

(5-1) iS CIA

Classified by SellATiE

Declassily

DR 7/10/86

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32337904 Page 2

---

