# 124-90140-10031

## Page 1

124-90140-10031

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90140-10031

HQ

CR 100-391429-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/22/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

GENE DECASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32338074 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

SEAR

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

RECEIVED FROM

JUN 2 3 19612

• CIA SJP)

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director, Plans JMP

SUBJECT: Gene DE CASTRO

* 2 JUN 1961

JUIx 27 1961

GENE

COPIES MADE

6-7-78 PAPIAt

PVA

FOR REVIEW AT PRIRO EY

HSCA REA

(SK0 SUPE F6211790)

REQUEST.

CASTRO

1o An official off

M

tras recently requested traces

on the above Subject, who is an applicant for "a position of trust"

((S)

We note that this man has been the subject of previous correspondence between

this office and your Bureau, including our SO DB-53386, dated 29 May 1952.

He

is the subject of your file number 100-391129 a Fal

2o In connection with his inquiry, our

source has furnished the

following biographic data on DE CASTRO, which is possibly merely what DE CASTRO

himself provided to the Swedes:

Date and Place of Birth: Born 3 October 1919, Blackpool, England

Citizenship: United States:

Home Address: 4391 Revera (sic) Drive, Coral Gables, Florida

Swedish Address: / RAMBPRG, 46 Ostmarksgatan, Hersta (Stockilm)

Passport: United States No. 54540

DECLASSIACATION AND/OR,

RELEASE UP CIA INFORMATIONG

Date of Arrival in Sweden: 30 January 1961 IN THIS DOCUMENT, ENCEPT @ RACKEZS

In asking for information on DE CASTRO,,

remarked, 'Vi thout

elaboration, that DE CASTRO is possibly a Communist.

In reply to

Inquiry we have received on the Subject,

we believe it would be pertinent to rurnish some extracts from the report made by

James Delk Leland at New York, dated 5 June 1953. We have in mind the following

items of information:

CSCI3/765

(V)

EX-116

+36 -391424-11

REE

17 JUN 27 1961

Clas

led

2/13

FaI

6-30

ARTISE

2813100/ey

OADR

da)

Case, snare

conclassife

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UAGLASSIFIEL

SECRET

DATE 525 958Y 5668-51

Inde

OFf

HW 50953

DocId: 32338074 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

Subject studied Russian and other Fastern European languages. While in

Finland, he also taught English.

Source did not know what income Subject

had, but wondered how he could manage to make enough money from teaching

English to be able to afford a room costing $40.00 per month, a telephone

and riding lessons, plus the usual normal living expenses.

bo DE CASIRO returned to Sweden, penniless, in about 1958. On a

visit to Helsinki later that year he stated that he had not been able to

find a job in Sweden. During the course of his entire stay in Finland

visit from his aunt, who is also an Englishwoman.

C. Subject never expressed any political opinions, but his entire

behavior aroused unfavorable speculation as to why he was in Finland.

do In the summer of 1958 DE CASTRO was hired by Pan American World

Airways to work at the Helsinki Airport, but he was discharged for in-

competence. Subject also was given a job teaching English for the

Tampere (a city in Finland) Finnish-American Society, but lost this

position, too, because of incompetence.

So Please advise whether the information in paragraph 3 above may be

furnished to

mich is interested in Subject. We woul

also annreciate vour advisine whether you have received a separate inquiry

in this matter.

CSCI-3/765,934

3

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

SECRET

REBEL

HH 50953 DocId: 32338071 Page 3

---

