# 124-10212-10238

## Page 1

124-10212-10238

JFK Assassination System.

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

L

124-10212-10238

100-339235-374

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/30/1971

4

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LTR

v9.1

HH 50953

12

DocId: 32293962

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Page Denied

---

## Page 3

B3J HANL

ALL CORE SONDENCE TO AL

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

„ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA

• CANADA

KIA OR2

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE, DOIT

ÊTRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

SENDARMERAWATY AANADA CANAL

KIA ORZ

VOTRE N°

OUR

NO.

•NOTRE N°

D934-1692

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

OTTAWA *, CANADA

KIA OR2

June 22,.

1971

SECRET

-Mr. Moss Lee Innes

United States Embassy

OTTAWA, Ontario

Dear Sir:

The attachment is forwarded for the

information of your Agency only.

The information

contained therein emanates from a delicate source

and no action should be taken which might jeopardize

this source.

A copy of

the attachment has been for

warded to Mr. Robert J. JANIZEN

yours truly,

(L.R. Parent)

Assistant Commissioner

Director

Security and Intelligence

100-

ENCESBURE

335235-374

IT 50953

DonTd: 32293962

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

22, 1971

Hermann Derek BRXI

A reliable source reported that Derel BRYAN

(NCHA, officials, in Ottens

Source edvised that

BRINk indicated he left Regina,

Saskatchewon for the U.s.d. on

20 APR 71.

he did not state

where in the l.S.A. he had been. BRYAN also mentioned he had

been to the U.S.io for 16 days, six weeks previously, when he

visited friends and attended a conference.

Again, he did not

Indicate where in the U.S.f. he had beer.

BRYAN stated the

nighlight of the conference was the showing of two movies, one

of which concerned laos, now being shown in New York and Toronto.

2.

BRYAN further stated thot the U.S. : China Friend

ship Association in san francisco showd be estationed by dunc

recording to anAls wellies of establish red.c. - Daina frienda

ship Associations

students and

even by the "Revolutionary Union".

3.

on the topic of the Revolutionary Union, BRYAN

stated that the Union is not limited to the Bay Area (Son

Cal

Francisco).

In the Union; however, he reused to disclose the name of another

residing in San Francisco.

BRYAN proised the publications of

the Union and commented they have a high ideal.

Source also stated that during the conversation

BRYA indicated he met wiüh PHIP while in Seattle.

It seems

PHIP 13 of

opinion that the Association should not be located

in the West,

but rather it should be established in the Fast,

the center

activities; however, as the U.s. is so big

and as the lest had carlier contact with China, BRYAN does not

he vest is discevantereous to have the Association locataà in

5.

Source was unable to further identify LABEl or

PHIP•

PHIF may be identical to Rita PHIPPS or Bon PHIPPS Of

Seattle, Washington, U.J.h.

6.

Susan VARREN is possibly identical to Susan Heilignan

FRANK of New York subject of previous correspondence, your file

103-2499 by Airtel on 13 NOV 70.

Derck BRYAN waS

appointed aivisiting Associate

Frofessor of Political Science at the University of Saskatchowan,

Regina Campus, Regina,

30 JUN 71.

to England on 14 MAY 71.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32293962 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

8.

A number of reliable sources have supplied

the following background information on BRYAN.

He has

been prominent in pro-Chinese organizations in reat

Britain since 1952.

From 1952 to 1905 he was a member

of the Britain-China Friendship Association, holding the

position of Vice-Chairman.

He is a past Secretary of the

Society for Anglo-Chinese Understanding (SACU) in England,

resigning in 1967. He is presently Chairman of SACU having

been so

since 1969.

He is editor of "China Now!,

a monthly

publication by SACU, and is connected with the publication

of "Broadsheet"

organ of the China Policy Study Group,

England. He is a member of the Chinese Language Teachers

Association, c/o The University of Hawaii, since 1966.

BRYAN speaks

very good Mandarin and worked in China between

1933 and 1951.

The foregoing is forwarded for the information

of your Agency only.

This information emanutes from a delicate

source and no action should be taken which might jeopardize

this source.

SECRET

IT 50953

DonTd: 32293962

Page 5

---

