# 124-10066-10073

## Page 1

124-10066-10073

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10066-10073

RECORD_ SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE. NUMBER: 62-109060-1ST NR 7831

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/17/1977

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JFK, SEARCHING SUSPECTS, CUBAN EXILES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/30/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId:32141601 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OR RUFS!

DE RUEAIIA #4261 29018?

ZiY 35SSS

FM.

Ост / 30510 '77

neceiven

FEDERAL SUA

COMMUMICATICHE SOCIE

SELKLi

Asu

A

E.

inflam

Well i ne

Laborator..-

Made Cou.

Plan & in ..

TO RUF BI/FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

FUEKO/DEPT OF SINTE//SY/1/PIE

RUEKJCS/DIA

RIESTAA/DINSA

RUEN SE/SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

Брес. InT.

Tech. Sar?.-

Training-

Public Afts. OF

Telephone Rox...

Disartar's Sec'ÿ-

сив

BT

SECRET. CITE CIA 110665.

FIPCI-312/93383-77

JECT ET- WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

HETHODS INVOLVED--NOT PELFASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS - NOT RELEASARLE

INTRACTICS

TO CONTRACT ORS OP CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION

OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.

9-1

SUBLECT: ALLEGATIONS FY CUBAN DIPLOMAT IN JAMAICA CONCERNING THE ROLE

IF CEPTAIN CUBAN EXILES IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHNE

KENNEDY

IN

• TVNIDINO

1a THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION VAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT

62-109060

÷1303

APPROVI

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

As Seitiged IBHI-27-94

KP 2/11/97

NOT RECORDED

27

NOV & 1977

501157)

CAOR 3

•N/R 7831

50953

DocId: 32141601 Pade 2

---

## Page 3

FACE 2 RUALIA ASI SECRET

ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOLÈHE CONDUCT OF FOREIGN CÓ

TIVITIES OUT SIDE THE U.S.

TER INTELLIGENCE AC

(S)

1 14

2a ACCORDING TO

IN KINGSTON, JAMAICAN

FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE HAS REPORTED THAT ENRIQUE MO N

TERO

LEZ CANO, MINISTER-COUNSELOP OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON, MADE

CERTAIN ALLEGATIONS ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1977 CONCERNING THE ROLE OF CUBAN

EXILES IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. XENNEDY. MONTERO

MADE THESE ALLEGATIONS DURING THE COURSE OF HIS ADDRESS 10 THE PECULAR

MONTHLY MEETING OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CUBA MEMBERS ASSIGNED TO

¿JAMAICA. THE MEETING WAS HELD IN THE CUBAN EMBASSY, MONTERO SAID,

AMONG OTHER THINGS, THAI CUBAN EXILES SUCH AS FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE

OFFICER DJ. A Z LAN (FNUS AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSAS -

SINATION OF, PRESIDENT KENNEDY. MONTERO REFERRED TO THE ASSASSINATION

IN THE CONTEXT OF A SECURITY LECTURE IN WHICH MONTERO CLAIMED THAT

C CUNTER-REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES HAVE INCREASED IN

RECENT MONTHS, MONTERO SAID RECENT INFORMATION HAD ARRIVED IMPLICA

TING DIAZ IN THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. MONTERO DID NOT MENTION ANY

OTHER CUBAN EXILES BY NAME OR ANY FURTHER DETAILS, MONTERO DID NOT

IDENTIFY THE SOURCE OF MIS INFORMATION, ALTHOUGH OUR SOURCE HAD

THE

NH 50953

DoeId:32141601

Page 3

---

