# 124-10326-10183

## Page 1

124-10326-10183

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10326-10183

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-35253-1246

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO : NY

TITLE:

DATE: 10/04/1963

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

6

ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

--.

v9.1

NN 50953

DooId: 32313255

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPFIONAL FORCINO. 10

1P62 EDITiON

MAY IRA POLONO. 27

3010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC, New York (105-35253)

DATE: 10-4-63

A FROM

Director, FBI (109-584)

CIA SUMEDO OBJECTION TO

HICATION AND/ORNTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVIIIES

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONE CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCOP BRACKETS p9.1

510/151 BASSY GATOR 4Y /259/9/18/28

TEGORY

INFIETT

ASSI TRATION

DOVINITE

ReNYLet

DATE OF DIE

During the past few weeks Bureau has received information

concerning anti-Castro activities reportedly based in Nicaragua.

This information suggested that Cuban exiles possibly were in the

process.of organizing another invasion force.

Manuel Artime, a

prominent Cuban exile, reportealy has been spending considerable

time in Nicaragua allegedly organizing exiles l

In view of the information contained in relet and the

increasing role of Nicaraguo in anti-Castro activities,

a discussion

was had with CIA concerning these matters on 9-25-63432 4)

With reference to the meeting of Cuban exiles allegedly

held in New York City in July, 1963, mentioned in relet, CIA

advised that it had no informationgconcerning this meeting and

pointed out that

nad been stationed in

Jor the past two years.

vas in the U. So for a few days

in about the midale of August, 1903, but he has not been involved

in any Cuban matters since his assignment to

With reference to Nicaragua, CIA aduised that it was not

involved in any intelligence operation with Luis somoza, former

President of Nicaragua.

CIA emphasized that it was not organizing

a Cuban invasion force in any country. CIA indicated with regard

to Somoza that CIA had received numerous reports and rumors concern

ing somoza's activities and his alleged connection with the To So

Governmento. CIA aduised that for several months Somoza has

championing a plan, allegedly designed by him, wnich nas as its

objective to overthrow the Castro government.

The plan essentially

consists of training Cuban exiles in Nicaragua and would involve

collaboration with other Central American cuuntries including

Nicarague.

According to CIA,

the Kennedy Administration has

reviewed this plan and has disapproved it.

Nevertheless,

has not hesitated to use the name

PACKe S. Is numerous Su

I - Miami (105-1742)

STRIALIZED FILED

1 - WEO (105-29995)

6-16-98

Дос. ?

1963

FBI - NEW YORK

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KER

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

105-35-53-1246

7N 50953 Docld:32313255 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NED HEREIN

WHERE

SAC, New Fork (105-35253)

10-4-03

Director, FBI (209-584)

ANTI-PIDEL CASIRO ACTIVITIES

IS • CUBA

CHASTITCA

TO BY 12,89

9/18/78

C*TP

EXEU: 1 B

DATE OF DECLASCINICATION INOR INITE

BeNYlet 9-17-6364)

During the past few weeks Bureau has received information

concerning anti lastro activities reportedly based in Micaraguo.

This information suggested that Cuban exiles possidly were in the

process of organizing another invasion force.

Lanuel Artime, &

prominent Cuben exile,' reportedly has been spending considerable

time in Nicarague allegedly organizing extles

5668S0/5R

In view of the information contoined

in relet and the

increasing role of Nicaragua in anti-Castro activities,

discussion

was had with CIA concerning these matters on 9-25-63

(4)

With reference to the meeting of cuban estles allegedly

held in New York City in Julys

1963, mentioned in relet, CIA

: 25X

JFK

advised that it had no information

concerning this meeting and

pointed out that

had been stationed in

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON

for the past tuo years

was in the U.S. for d

jew days

In about the middle of August,

1963, but he has no% heen inuolved

in any Cuban matters since his

assignment to

With reference to Nicaraguo, CIA advised that it was not

involved in any intelligence operation nith luis Somoze, former

President of Nicarague.

CIA emphasized that it was not organizing

o cunon invasion force in any country. CIA indicated with regard

to Somoza that CIA had received nunerous reports and rumors concerr

ing Somoza's activities and his alleged connection with the t. s.

Governent.

CIA advised that for several months Somoza has been

championing a plan, allegedly designed by him, unten has as its

objective to overthrow the Castro goverment.

The plan essentiolly

consists of training Cuban exiles in Nicarague and would inuolve

collaboration with other Central American countries including

nicarague.

According to ClAg

the Kennedy Administration has

squiewed this plan and has disapproved it.

not hesitated to use the name

of the lo sonito

his hunterous

1 - Miami (205-1742)

oct?

CIAMAS RFO:S6205029995)

CLASS. BY

1963

(u)

DECLASSIRICANCN ANO/OR,

MELEASE OF CIA INFOHMANOM

DATE OF

FBi - NEW YORK

6/84

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEpT BRACiUTS py. lacKas

(m11-297 5411522

JFK)

1530372083

NN 50953 DooId:32313255 Page 3

---

