# 124-10221-10248

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10221-10248

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-72630-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

10:

TITLE:

NIS

[Restricted]

[Restricted]

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECIS:

06/30/1959

PDL, CUBAN AIR FORCE, RESIGNATION, COMMUNIST,

REVOLUTIONARY GROUP, PLANS, SMUGGLE

DOCLMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICA TION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DIA

COMMENTS: INCTTY

40.11

NW 46936

DocId: 32340855 Page 1

---

## Page 2

5(g) (2)

(D)i): 2

(a)(ili) (1)

NAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASEO DI

DATE

30 JUNE 59

34622 (S)

CRET

CRAFTED BY

NAVY DEPARIMENT

SUO HIR

(1)(b)(iii)

ROUTED DY

I CHECKED

01/0645Z

302040Z

"TORTETTINE GROUP EGOTI'S

RON:

DRACILETED INTORMATION ONIY

10:

CNO J(5)

REMAINS CLASSIFTED PER DIF

LETTER DATED 10-1-

INFO:

GINGLAN TFLT//CONCARIBSEAFRON//COMB GTMO](5)

4-24-98

(JFK)

READDRESSED AS GNO $10551Z (NFO DID 6ND//FBIJ(S)

PRECEDENCE

UNFO›

(ACT)

• FLASH

L! PRIORNY

[I DEFERASO

"CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT.

1M THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOID THE PRESIDENT THAT HE

ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD.

BELIEVE HE 1S

ABOARD 43 FOOT YACHT BOUNTY_ 11 ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGLADES FLA.

LON TOP OF THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED.

_UP WILL

CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY.

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING WTHIN AF OF

REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

BELIEVE

TIME RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES ANARENING

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE

RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST 10 EXTENT OF

IN CUBAN PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

FORCES.

5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)(iii)(1)(b)

(ili)

RECOMMEND

IF YACHT

ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS

BEEN PRO US AND ANT!

COMMUNIST.

5(g)(2)(Di): 2(a) (ili)(1)(b)(i)

& in M

planana

FBI.

• COG (1-7)

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

1.

AC

MANN, FILLED

30 20640) 27

PARAPHIASE NOT REGUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGOR'

103 05. 7 2630-12

B" ENCRYPTION FHYSICALLY

RE LINEL ASSIGNEE AERENCE IN HE DARE TIME GROUP IS QUOTED. DECLASSIFICATION.

105 - 7w

RH 46936

Dould: 32340855

Paue -

---

## Page 3

5(g)(2)

(D)i); 2

(a)(iii)(1)

(b)(IIi)

NAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASED 67

DRAFTED BY

5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)

TReU

30 JUNE 59

[34622 ](5)

01/0645Z

FROM:

30204pZ

TORTEPTIME GROUP (GET)

BRACKETED INTORMATION ONlY

CNO ](S)

5LD /KSA

CINCLANTFLT//COMCAR IBSEAFRON//COMNB CTMO] 5) 4-24-98

(JFK)

[READDRESSED AS CNO 010551Z INFO DID 6ND//FBI](S)

NAVY DEPARTMENT

PRECEDENCE

GACTI

D FLASH

UNFO)

D

3890c0

DO PRIORITY

"CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT.

IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD, BELIEVE HE IS

AROARD 42 FOOT VACHT BOUNTY

ENROUTE

: VARADERO

TO PORT EVERCLADES FLA.

TOP OF

THIS SITUATION, RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED.

UP WILL

CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY.

DIAZ

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING

TWTHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

IIME RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

BELIEVE

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF AWAKENING

FORCERA PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

15(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)(iii)(1)(b)(iii)

RECOMMEND

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND

EN PRO US AND AE SO LANZ BE GIVEN COOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

- 5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)(iii)(1)(b)(i)

FBI,

•COG (1-7)

HEREIN IS LACID

2

AC

302040Z

DTG

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "B" ENCRYPTION-PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE-TIME GROUP PRIOR 10 DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNCLASSIFIED REFERENCE IF THE DATE -TIME GROUP IS QUOTED.

NH 16936 DuuId: 32340855

Page 5

---

## Page 4

NAVAL MESSAG

NAVY DEPARTMENT

EXY ME

TOR

GRAFTED BY

15(g)(2)(DY(i); 2(a)(iii)(1)

((b)(

ROUTED 5Y

39 JUNE 59

[34622 (5)

01/0645Z

1(52

PRECEDENCE

5(g)(2)(D)

(i), 2(a)

(mm)(7)(b)

FROM:

302040Z

"CONTETTINE GHOUP LEGIT

BenchuTEs INtonmatioN oNly

CNO ](5)

REMAINS CLASSIFIED PER DIA

LETTER DATED 16-1-97

510/KSR

CINCLANTELT//CONCARIBSEAFRON//COMNE GTMO](5) 4-24-98

(JFK)

EACTI

0J FLASH

833

LO varoany

Il COUNTE

UNFO?

YO:

INFO:

READDRESSED AS CNO 010551Z INFO DID 6ND//FBIJ(s)

#CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENTO

THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE 18

ABOARD 43 FOOT YACHT BOUNTY

11 ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGLADES FLA.

ON TOP OF THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED.

UP WILL

CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY.

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING IWTHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

TIME RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

BELIEVE

THIS RESIGNATION MICHT HAVE

RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF AWAKENING

IN CUBAN PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

FORCES.

5(g)(2X(D)(i); 2(a)(iil)(1)

(b) (1)

RECOMMEND

IF YACHT ARRIVES

US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US

AND ANTI

COMMUN I ST

FBI

COG (1-7)

HEREIN IS DIAL AUN

F92.2.02 19

302040Z

AC

NW

16936

Dould: 32340855

Page 6

---

## Page 5

5(g) (2)

(DXi): 2

(a)(iii).

(1)(b)

NAVAL MESSAGE

RELEASCO BY

AFTED SY

5(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)(iii)(1)(b)(i)

DATE

TeTt

30 JUNE 59

01/06452

5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)(iii)

34622 (S)

(1)(D)(1)

3P20402

COATE/TINE GROUP TOCh)

LERON:

(70:

BRACKETED INTAMATION ONL

CNO] (E)

Romaies CLASSiFiED pER DIA

LEtTEe DATTO 10-1

[INFO, CINCLANTFLT//CONCAR IBSEAF RON//COMB TIMO](5) " 74x)

READDRESSED AS CNO 0105517 INFO DID 6ND//FB: ](S)

NAVY DEPARTMENI

T 900 aN

PRECEDENCE

(ACT)

(INFO:

O FLASH

[I PRIORITY

"CHIEF CUBAN AIRFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT.

IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS

ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE IS

ARNARD 43 FOOT YACHT BOUNTY

ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGLADES FLA.

ON TOP OF

THES SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED.

UP WILL

CARRY FULL

TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY®

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING

JWTHIN

AF OF

REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

TIVE

RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE

TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

RAMIFICATIONS

AT LEAST

TO EXTENT OF AWAKENING

FORCUBAN PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

RECOMMEND IF YACHT ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US AND ANTI COMMUNIST.

5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)(ii)(1)

(b)(i)

, COG (1-7)

TALL FBI INFORMATION CONTARED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIS

CRET

PILLED

302040Z

AC

FARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEPT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "3" ENCRYPTION PHYSICALIY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE-TIME GROUP PRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION.

NO UNCLASSIFIED REFERENCE IS THE DATE -TIMS GROUP IS GUOTED.

NU 46936

Doeld: 32340855

Page 3

---

## Page 6

NAVAL.

MESSAG

RELEASED EY

PATE,

39 JUNE 59

34622

-SECRE

NAVY DEPARTMEND

101

5(g)(2)

(D)0);

2(a)(iii)

(1)(b)

01/0645Z

5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)(iii)(1)

302040Z

TORTERGE GHOUP COUT

BRACKETED INTORMATION ONL

CNO] (5)

REMAINS CLASSIFIO PER DIA

JETTER DATED 10-1-97

GINGLANTFLT//CONCARIBSEAFRON//COMB CTMO] (5) 4-249%

PRECEDENCE

CAOD

UNFO)

C] ROUTINE

ED DESERT

READDRESSED AS NO 010551Z INFO DIO GND//FBJ] (S)

"CHIEF CUBAN AERFORCE PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ TODAY RESIGNED BY LETTER TO

PRESIDENT.

IN THIS LETTER HE DISCLOSED HIS FIGHT AGAINST COMMUNIST

INFLUENCE AND TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT HE WAS ABOUT TO BE MADE SECOND IN

COMMAND SO THAT THIS COMMUNIST INFLUENCE COULD SPREAD. BELIEVE HE 18

AROARD 42 FONT VACHT BOUNTY_1 ENROUTE VARADERO TO PORT EVERGIADES FLA.

ION TOP OF THIS SITUATION. RECOMMEN D HIS TRAFFIC BE

DISSEMINATED.

UP WILL CARRY FULL TEXT RESIGNATION LETTER TODAY•

LANZ HAD LARGE FOLLOWING WTHIN AF OF REVOLUTIONARY GROUP AND AT PRESENT

RAUL CASTRO PERSONALLY HAS TAKEN CARE OF SECURITY MEASURES.

BELIEVE

THIS RESIGNATION MIGHT HAVE RAMIFICATIONS AT LEAST TO EXTENT OF

AWAKENING

FORCESA PEOPLE THE PENETRATION THAT HAS BEEN MADE BY COMMUNISTS IN ARMED

J(S)l

5(g)(2)(DXi); 2(a)(ili)(1)(b)(iii)

RECOMMEND

IF YACHT ARRIVES US THAT LANZ BE GIVEN GOOD TREATMENT AS HE HAS

ALWAYS BEEN PRO US

ANTI COMMUNIST.

5(g)(2)(D)(i): 2(a)(iii)(1)(b)(i)

FBI..

• COG (1-7)

'ALL FEI IRPOESATION

HEREIN IS UNCLE SEN

DATE 6 = 16-590% 5g 8 mac/73

AC

FYZ210,

302040Z

DIG

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED EXCEFT PRIOR TO CATEGORY "B' ENCRYPTION PHYSICALLY

REMOVE ALL INTERNAL REFERENCES BY DATE-TIME GROUP PRIOR TO DECLASSIFICATION

10 UNCLASSINIED REFERENCE IF THE DATE-TIME GROUP IS QUOTED

NW 16936

Dould: 32310855

Page

---

## Page 7

• :

1 - Janes

4-24-94

ENCODE

TELETYPE

UNGAN?

1199

DECLASSIFY

0л:8

ALL ENERATION CONTATUED

TO• SAC MIARIE

FROM DIRECTOR FRE

PRORO LUIS DIAZ

JENA TWO POOR CASE. GUREAU IN PECIPE ON JIRORAATEONLETON NAVY

DEPARTEN PEST DIAS JANE ZHO RESINED AS CASE OF CURAN AIR PORCE

JUNE THREE BERO LAST IS EZFORTED ABOAND PACHE QUOTE BOUNIY SECOND

UNQUOTE IN ROUTE TO PUNE EVALCLADES, FLURIDA. A YOU SHOULD NOT BEST

PACILITATZ OF ENDOREE HIS INITY QUT LAZ AUHANGENEVIO WILL TELASSEND PET,

TO DE LOVISED IN EVENT DE ARRIES IN L S.

CX: ARIVALE

DT.D

INTERVIEW SHOULD BE CONDUCTED WHICH SHOULD DULLY GOTEE ALL, ASPEOTS

104-97

OF' EXISTING CORAN SATIATION,

PARTICUTARLY EXTEN JI COMMINIST OR

-SOVIET ENFLEBUGE TI-CASTHO POORE.IN REDILION, TOO SHOUTO CREATI

177 DAIA HE BAY POSSESS CONOCRAING STRINGUE AND JEANS OT

OPPOSITION GEOUPS.

LEGAZ, HAVANA, ADVISED BY RATAT - 72630-12

REC- 70

1 - ENGAT,

TEJ:JIN GU

(5)

1 - PLU

2

1503

JUL 1 = 1959

FEDERAL BUREAU OF MEgaTiGATeS

1L. S. DEPARTMERT b!

JUSTICE

532102

advined

is command record a nird roat

that Diaz Lane was relicued of

ayter

he nad been sevarely

(SEE CONTIMTANOS OF NOTE PAGE

2)

CODE HOCK,

46936

DuaTil: 32140855

---

## Page 8

RE:

TELE VEDRO LEAS

STA M2

DIAZ LANE

COCCENCANCE ON NOIRE

cristolaed oy midal casiro.

Aacora ing do 2580m%

inforani, he is

anticomnunist aral pro-ie

food

parabstac

in preventing

1au3. Castro from aladributing and ahowing procommmint moules to

members of ata common.

hae been taentifiod a3 un

undergroud mener of

one crusade o7

In Cuba.

Legata

savina,

in cadition Revolucionaries Againot Corummiam

cobienran 6/23/59 disolosed the Air Attache

at Hawingh wis how?ling

plans to smuggle Diaz Lans

out of Cuba 2b

boat.

Cablegram also.

indicated cia:

Air Force

in Washing tony

to arrange

contecting

his numission so the

Numbar sadaaJauted 6/30/59 Oisolosed that Dich Jane

had resigned and was en routs to U.

uhoard yucht

Teletyya used in ulew time clement and unsettled conditions in caribbean

azaa.

BRACIOTS REMAIN CLASSIFIED

PER DIA iNT DTD. 18-1-97

NR.

INC.

CK.

APPROVED BY

"TYPES BY

ADMIS NAIL

-C/5207

• 2 k

11H 15936

DuLLd: 32310355

Page 3

---

