# 124-90092-10009

## Page 1

124-90092-10009

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90092-10009

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-80750-952

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

HQ

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/04/1949

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: LET

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32330764

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA NAS NO OBJECTOR TO

PEr ASS

NICER M ANDIOR

May 4, 1949

IF CIA NGRMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCEPT FoR thE bRnckETS

KP

1-22-98%

5/18198.

8 PERSONAL AND CONT

AIR MAIL

ANTI AJ

CLASSIFIED BY

DECL

5668 S0/5R

25

TO:

Mr o

c/0

ARE INE

10-25

FROM:

Director, FBI

SUBJECT:

APPOINTVENT OF CIA

92в2*15E

Motor

ITAISON REPRESENTATIVE TOL

dated March 28, 1949 wherein you

advised that the

Referenge Is nade to you oration indicating thet the Central.

Intolligence Agency desires to place a representative in

They re-

quested any comments the Bureau night be able to make relative to this matter.

As you know, the Bureau, of course, can make no objection to the

establishment of such liaison.

For your confidential infornation, however,

information has been received at the Seat of Government that a CIA liaison

representative will be placed in

thin the next few weeks officials

of CIA have confidentially advised the Bureau's Liaison Section that they

readily recognize that it will take years to build up arclose liaison witha

JAd related organizations They state, however,

- that they feal such

action must be taken in view of CIA's Jurisdiction in foreign circlesg

For your further information, it has been ascertained that CIA Is

presently considering one Samuel Herman Horton a former Bureau agent and

now an employee of the Office of Special Operations, CIA, for the position

in question (Horton entered the Bureau as a Special Agent on January 15,

1940 Ile was assigned to the Richment and Cincinnati Offices and was trans-

ferred to the Seat of Government on June 28, 1943. ' He resigned on December

17, 1944 to accept a position with the Office of Strategic Services.

It las additionally been ascertained that William K. Harvey, also

a former

• Bureau agent

and now a minor official of CIA, has recommended to his

superiors

that only a former Special Agent of the FBI should be placed in

that he will have interest in common with you and thereby gain your

cao plat.

98030429

24328 45k2

CC

• Foreign. Service Desk

CDD: ink

_coples made

willion

for revlow at T'BIRQ by

ISCATe 1102E request.

¡(See Bufile #02-127290)

DIma. 2110178

B

76 JUN 27 1949

2,6.

OFIGINAL

79

7H 50953 DoCTO: 32330764

Page 2

---

## Page 3

confidence and use you as an entree with the

other, excellent Bureau

peculiar personality" Horton should be the newl

because of his so-called "ability to handle people," meaning oflicourse,

he is expected to cultivate and properly handle you for the, benefit of CIA.

It is therefore quite evident that CIA personnel are not only unfairly

judging you, but also have every intention of using you as a "stepping-Stonel

for their own designs.

This infornation is being pointed out to you so that you may be

completely aware of the situation.

You should be particularly alert to prevent

being used as any such "stepping stone" for CIA or Horton.

CIA should develop

its own contacts without depending upon

established between the FBI and

the excellent relationships already

ficial channels Only that liaison

necessary for the coordination of domestic and foreign matters is necessary and

it should be most circumspect.

of domestio

17,

1TH 50953

DoCT: 32330764

Page 3

---

