# 124-10277-10380

## Page 1

124-10277-10380

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10277-10380

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-21, 22,23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/27/1961

• PAGES:

66

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, ACA, EXPEDITION, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ, CIA

COMMENTS: INC 2 RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

Office of Origin

MIAMI

ITIS OF CASE

MOV IMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO,

aka

Date

JUN 9

1961

Inventigativo Perlod

5/2-25/61

Report made by

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA;

RA

. • CUBA;

NM

Typed By:

: ush

CA MAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATICN ANOVOR.

RELEASE DE CIA INORMATION

IN. THIS DOCUMENT. K 9-294

REFERENCE:

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., dated

SED/KSR

3/30/61, Miami.

8-20-9

ALFENIORNATION CAMPINED

- C-

JFK

HEREIN IS U

ASSIFIED

ARE SH

ADMINISTRATIVE

MARAISE

Classined

Recessify on: DADA 240/25

Leaflet translated from Spanish to English by ELEANORE

MI. SCHOENBERGER, Translator, Miami Office.

ENCLOSURE - To Bureau - Five copies of a letterhead

memorandum entitled "Movimiento Insur-

recional De Recuperacion Revolutionario,"

which is being furnished the Bureau for

limited dissemination since it mentions

1(5/90x(n)

JFK)

THen Sx 425142

1803Md

Approved

Spocial Agent

In Charge

ide: Bureau

(ne153) (97-4474 RM

INS, Miami (RM)

1

• U. S. Customs, Miami (RM)

CIA, Miami (RM)

- U.S. Border Patrol,

Miami (RM)

4 - Miami (2- 105-2855

1 -105-2856,

BOSCHT

PANEOUE

Do not write in spaces blow

92 - 4474

-23

FREC- 72

17 JUN 18 1961

EX-113

ONI/OSI /G2,

report is! lodne

to you by the FBI. and

neither it mor its contents are to

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1909 0-144700

SEE REARST

SIDE TOR

AFICATION

ACTION

tributed outside the agency to

which

Кости

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 2

---

## Page 3

311, 32%

1/03856

(pi) isXaA) (4)

GaL

HTT 50953

DoẻId: 32301045

Page 3

---

## Page 4

REL

MM 105-2855

INFORMANT

Identity

MM T-1 is MM 726-S

Location

134-307-Sub A 97

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed

and "T" symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal their

identities.

B*

(COVER PAGE)

IT 50953

DoCT: 32301045

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

MM 105 2855

INFORMANT

Identity

Location

MM T-1 is MM 726-S

134-307-Sub A 97

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "T"

symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal their

identities.

B*

(COVER PAGE)

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

5-12-551

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

TILE OF CASE

Date

MIAMI

Office of Origin

MIAMI

3/30/61

Investigative Perlod

1/19 - 3/29/61

Report made by

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

GED :

Typed By:

mfm

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

CHANGED

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL. DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO,

aka

CUBA;

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RA - CUBA;

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

NM

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EX COP7 A

ВЛАСНО N 6

mikh A

The title of this case is marked changed to reflect the

correct spelling of the word revolucionario, which ends

7

with an

"o" rather than an "a"

REFERENCES:

Miami teletypes to Bureau,

3/22, 24,

& 27/61.

Washington Field letter to Bureau, 2/6/61

Report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., 1/18/61, Miami.

Bulet to the Asst. Attorney General, U. S.

Dept. of Justice, 1/24/61.

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

FORDIN I UNCLASSIFIED

-P-

EXOSET MHESE SHOWN

OTHE

LUE DE, MICENT (FFK)

Declassify on:

DADA

BIAIGCL

SLE

SID

CL

GIFICATION

9/10/85

L0T5

Special Agent

In Charge

Approved:

Copiss made

Bureau

(RM:)

97.

4424

Do not write la apaces belo

-22

MCT

U. S. Customs,

Miami (RM)

15

S.

Border Patrol,

Miami (RM)

APR 8 1961

(2cc

105-2855;

TOI XH

REC

CIAIT Y5.

Miami,

VEL EVIC

- 105-2856-BOSCH;

SOILET T

105- 3037-PANEQUE

2-18-981

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

66 can

M

DECLASSIFY ON: 252

028

BE

JFK

HECE NED

55

APR 13 1961

(SECRET

Property of FBI

This soport is loned to you by the FBI, and nelther it nor its contents are to be distributed outside

#U. B. GOVERMMENT PRINTING OFFICE INES O S4474O OSS

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32301045

Page 6

---

## Page 7

REC'D

Forthar:

Ha? INT.

APR 6 5 09 PH'61

FOT/TA A

AP2ZAA

121,320.

CIVTLAT

Z.4.

. 9/10l

T2LG GCL

(N) VECA) (U)

^PR 101967)

RECEIVEU

APR 7 10 47 AM '61

INTERNAL "

enetelie.

-FBI

діти

SE0T

Yod

tettir.ca.o

irsiberge-i)

Taiad

VOUTO:

CDE271121

21"2

2R3

12A2222

e tin ta de Cate

HH

60953 DooId:32301045

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRED

MM 105-2855

-LEADS -

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Pursuant to Bureau instructions as set forth in

Bulet, 1/24/61, to the Asst. Attorney General, Miami will not

conduct further investigation to determine possible violations

of the Neutrality statutes, but in view of the possible

significance of this organization, Miami will continue to

follow its activities through informants and other logical

sources.

-ADMINISTRATIVE-

On March 21, 1961, Mx.

CIA, Miami,

- advised that the group

of five, including ANGUS MC NAIR, who

were reportedly captured in Cuba, could be an independent

operation of the FRD, but that CIA had no operational interest

in this matter, and was in possession of no information concern-

ing the "Mercury". /e

On March 29, 1961,l

CIA,

advised that ORLANDO BOSCH is persona non grata so far as CIA

is concerned, and that CIA has no interest in BOSCH's organiza-

tion, the MIRR; however, BEMBIBRE and his companions were

assisted out of Cuba by CIA. (5

-COVER PAGE-

SECREU

ITHT

50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

MM 105-2855

IDENTITY

MM I-1 is MM 726-S

MM. I-2 is MY 639-S

MM T-3 is MM 492-S

- INFORMANTS

LOCATION

134-307-Sub A-68,71,76,83

134-238-5ub 1-385]$14)

134-44-Sub A

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report, and "I"' symbols have been utilized

only in those instances where identity must be concealed.

-COVER PAGE-

-C*-

SECRET:

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CONFIR

NTIAL

MM 105-2855

DETAILS: AT MIAMI. FLORIDA

ACTIVITIES OF THE MIRR IN JANUARY AND

FEBRUARY, 1961

On January 16, 1961, MM I-1, who is well

acquainted with many Cuban exiles In the Miami area,

advised that DI. ORLANDO/BOSCHYAVILA, 4138 S. W. 16th BoRd

Terrace, Miami, civilian delegate to the MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (MIRR), :

8-18-1926

advised that the "Jolly Roger"', a forty or forty-five-

foot boat possessed by BOSCH, was going to transport some

guns from Green Cay, Bahamas, to Miami, where these guns

were to be taken by a group departing Miami by plane

to

Cuba.

On January 16, 1961, MM I-1 advised that BOSCH

had acquired

some radio transmitting equipment which

operates on 4895 kilocycles.

7ea

On January 19, 1961, MM-T-I said that BOSCH

disclosed that day that VICTOR PANEQUE, also known as

Captain Diego, planned to take a group of eight individuals

on the "Jolly Roger" to Cuba.

On January 19, 1961, the Broward County Sheriff's

Cone, Be save a in luate, canished information

Isolated property located Northwest of Pompano Beach,

Florida.

On the same date, thesemen, who identified them-

selves as United States citizens

ROBERT EDWARD ROSTALLON,

CONFDENTIAL

ITHT

50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 10

---

## Page 11

COMRDENTIA C

MM 105-2855

ten Persian

ILA city,

JAMES PETER HENRI, and AUGUST JOSEPH ANDREWBACHOI, JR.,

advised that they belonged to an unnamed organization

consisting of twelve to thirteen Americans under the

leadership of FRANKSTURGIS, 280 S. W. 60th Court, Miami,

Florida.

They disclosed that their camp was a staging

area being used by this group prior to its transportation,

date unknown, by plane or boat to Cuba. These men were

observed as being in possession of one Webley Mark 6

revolver.

They stated that STURGIS said that their presence

In Cuba would encourage Cubans to defect against FIDEL

CASTRO, and that if the revolution succeeded against

CASTRO, they would be rewarded with political positions or

businesses under the new regime, and would be allowed to

remain in Cuba.

D.

It is

be noted that FRANK STURGES,

his identical

to FRANK ANTHON STURGIS, also known as Franky

Fiorini, who

has been previously mentioned in this Investigation as

having entered into negotiations with Captain DIEGO to

obtain transportation

of his men from Miami to Cuba, where

FIORINI's men planned to stake out an area of operations

for themselves.

On January 19, 1961, MM I-2, who associates with

many Cuban exiles engaged in revolutionary activities,

reported that he had visited FIORINI's camp near Pompano

Beach, on the previous day, and learned that Captain

DIEGO had a group which planned to be leaving the following

weekend for Cuba, and planned to take along four or five

of FIORINI's, men

as a separate unit under the leadership

of MAXIVILA, JRo

a Cuban exile. (LU)

• 3=

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CONFYRENTIAL

MM 105-2855

71.01

MM T-2 stated he also learned that ORLANDO

BOSCH, Captain DIEGO, and FRANK FIORINI had reportedly

gone to Tampa, Florida, to obtain possession of a boat

which had been undergoing repairs in the Tampa area (A)U)

On January 30, 1961, MM I-1 advised that BOSCH

disclosed that VICTOR PANEQUE

i had gone to Cuba, but he

did not disclose the time nor method of his departure.

On February 27, 1961, MM I-1 advised that

MIGUEL BOSCH, brother of

ORLANDO, disclosed that BOSCH's

group had been out on an unsuccessful' attempt to get into

Cuba, and had returned to the Miami area on February 26,

1961.

MIGUEL BOSCH explained that the group had "flown"

over Cuba, but had been unable to land for reasons

unexplained to MIGUEL BOSCH. BOSCH Identified FRANK FIORINI

as having been with this group, which also included

VICTOR PANEQUE. BOSCH claimed that the MIRR had maintained

radio contact with this group from Miami

¡AKA GUATIRO

On. March 1, 1961, MM I-l advised that ORLANDO

BOSCH disclosed on February 28, /1961, that he had to go

to Marathon, Florida on March

or 3, 1961. BOSCH

explained that MARCIANO BELLO,/ one of his men in the MIRR,

was planning to go to Pinar del Rio. Also, BOSCH expressed

disgust over the failure of VICTOR PANEQUE on his second

attempt to get into Cuba. BOSCH did not elaborate on

this difficulty. He also remarked that also participating.

in the second unsuccessful attempt, was FRANK FIORINI,

(First Name Unknown) SANDALIO, and one "MIMO"

CONFIAENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 12

---

## Page 13

MM 105-2855

ME. MC NAIR said he last saw his

SOn On

March 4, 1961, when his son announced that he was leaving

for Cuba.

On the evening of March 22, 1961, MM I-1

reported that ORLANDO BOSCH had just received Information

from the Cuban radio broadcasts that an MIRR group had

been seized in Cuba. BOSCH identified MARCIANO BELLO, also

known as "Guajiro" of the MIRR as being among this group.

BOSCH confided to MM I-1 that this group had been

taken by the "Jolly Roger" to a point off the coast of

Cuba near Cabanas, where they were transported in a small

boat to shore where they were apparently apprehended.

On March 22, 1961, Imspector WILLIS SMITHSON,

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami, advised that on March 9,

Patrol boat encountered and inspected

ing occupants of the boat were identified:

ANGUS MC NAIR,

4920 S. W. 76th Street,

Miami;

ORLANDO BOSCH and

MARCIANO BELLO MARTINEL Terrace,

bọth of 4128 s. W. 16th

Miami:

ROLANDO/PEREZ/ALEJOYSIMETO and

GILBERTO BETANCOURT,..

-both of 428 S. W. 9th Street, Apartment 8,

Miami. ELd

=7=

NH 50953 DocId: 32301045 Page 13

---

