# 124-10207-10419

## Page 1

124-10207-10419

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10207-10419

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-240

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/19/1977

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBANA AIRLINES, CRASH, BARBADOS, CUBAN GOVERNMENT RPT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

12/05/1996

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953 DocId: 32291643

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FRI

Intelligence Information Report

DIRECTORATE OF

CFERATIONS

SECRE

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOUNCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

Classified hr Recorded Renorting Oificer. Exempt from

100334 10 99 4 408 08 4 K 8268991397

Geneid Eciositation Shuda di 1:0. 11062 Enumption Calejery 58 110/0)

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORNATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

REPORT NO.

FIRDB - 312/01658-77

DATE DISTR.[19/MAY 1977

REPORT CLASS - SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE

INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS - - NOT

RELEASABIE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/

CONSULTANTS.

COUNTRY

DOI

SUBJECT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT. AS STUTTIZES

AMB 8 5/91

6. OCTOBER - NOVEMBER 1976

6

CUBAN REPORT OF THE

CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8

CRASH OFF BARBADOS

ACQ

SOURCE

SFR

FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIS

ยก UNCLASSIFTED

PS M

DATE

(9 FEBRUARY 1977)

FIELD NO.

(S) HE

IS A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

IS NOT TO

BE

DISCUSSED

THIS INFORMATION

WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING

OFFICIALS OF

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

1. AVAILABLE IN THE CIA OCR/DOCUMENT SERVICES BRANCH IS A

COPY IN SPANISH OF A REPORT PREPARED BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT ON THE

6 OCTOBER 1976 CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8 CRASH OFF BARBADOS. THE

ATTACHMENT WHEN DETACHED FROM THE REPORT IS CLASSIFIED SECRET.

2. THE 298, PAGE DOCUMENT CONSISTS OF A REPORT AND /12-

REC-36

FOUR ANNEXES AS FOLLOWS:

101

A. THE REPORT CONSISTS UF THE

FINDINGS AND

CONdUN 13 1977

LUSIONS

A THE CENTRAT TARORATORY DE CRIMINATOGISTS OF THE MINTSTRY OF

MARIO 1977HE CONCLUSIONS REACHED WERE THE FRONT

1) WHEN THE AIRPUAVE WAS DETWEEN TU

AND 10 TROUSAND

SECRET

(classification)

FBI

(dissors controls)

OCR

FAA OCR/ADD

(For Field Distribution see finol paragraph)

N7 50953

DocId:32291643

Page 2

---

