# 124-90062-10012

## Page 1

124-90062-10012

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90062-10012

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-85082-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/26/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MARVIN KANTOR

SOVIET CONTACTS WITH AMERICANS IN DENMARK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

7# 50953

DooId: 32327314 Page 1

---

## Page 2

IN/ CONTTNUED CONTROL

* CRETI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

2 6 OCT 1960

TOs

Direotor

Foderal. Buresu of Investigation

Attentions Mr. S. J. Papioh

FROM.

Deputy Director, Plane

SUBJECT: Soviet Contacts with Amerioans in Dermark

1. Reference 1a made to your letter entitled David Allen BOOTH, dated

4 October 1960, your file runher 100-132027, and to various nemoranda fran

this office concerning Soviet contacts with Anerican studenta in Denmark.

Speoifle references among our reports to you are CSCI-3/758,793, detod

20 September 1960, and GSCI-3/761,974, dated go Soptenber 1960.

The following

additional information concerning the subjeot matter has been provided by an

2. BOOTH's contaot with members of the soviet Embegay in Copenhagen

first come to offloial attention when, on 13 Ontober 1959, no was contacted

by Vladialer Mikhallovich ABARCHALIN, a Olerk at the Sovlot Embassy in Copen-

hagen, and made arrangements to neet ABARCHALIN and the latter's "two vivos"

at a theater that eventing.

ABARCHALN initiated thie contact in a manner

froquently used by KGB officorn in Copenhagen. They met at the theater as

planned, the party also inoluding ABARCHALIN's wife and lurly Alekseyeviah

IVANOV, born 30 Marah 192h in Brianak, USSR, uho vaa an Attache und susposted

KOB officer at the local Sovlet Embassy.

3OOTH, who had obtained tlokete for

the entire group, arrived escorting an unidentified varan.

Another of ABARCHALIN 'a contacte in Copanhagon has bees Rembert

caven Athl, who sa the eubjoot of osoT 3/761,97h,

On 29 Ootober 2959

ABARCHAS so Massoat hot town hail equare in Copenhagen and the two

want together to a restaurant and later to the theater. ABARCHALIN urrenged

this meeting in the mo namers as' lo used in sontasting boutH, aa mentioned

above. ALLrY hag United States Passpor No, 1570658, Lagued 21 May 1959

in Chlogo, and he has given ta address an 304 W. Willow Street, ohicago 2ui.

nlinois. Hoshas stated that he becane interested in Dormark an a roult of

having worked in the Untted States with a Danlah architeot. Ho received a

Baobolor of Arohlicoture degice fron the Univereity of altinole in Pobruary

•ER INFORMATION COMPANES

HEREIN

RESIFIED

1-94 BY

NOFORN/CONTINUED: CONTROL

(JFK)

1105-85082

NOT

RECORDED

46 NOV 9 1960

SECRETI

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

100-432027

ITT 50953

DocId: 32327314 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

NOFORN/ CONTINUED

CONTROL

1956, after which he entered military service. He was released after six

monthe as a Second Ileutenant in the United States Army Signal Corps. In

his work in Dermark, for a firn doing military construction in Greenland,

ALLEY does not have access to olassified documents, but he does have aocess

to unclassified blueprints and other papers and he is in contact with a

number of people worlding on the Greenland projects.

Lo It appears that ALLEY was the individual through whom ABARCHALIN

cane into contact with Marvin KANTOR, Inasmich as ALLEY indicated to ABAR-

CHALIN on 5 November 1959 that he would introduce him to KANTOR that evening.

It is belleved that on that evening ALLEY and ABARCHALIN walked together to

KANTOR 's address but failed to see him. According to official travel records,

KANTOR had loft Denmark for the USSR on 25 May 1959. He returned on 10 Septem-

ber 1959, presumably having spent the intervening period in the Soviet Union.

5. On the evening of 16 November 1959, however, ABARCHALIN was observed

entering a local restaurant with ALLEY and KANTOR. The three sat down at a

table with two unidentified foreigners of oriental appearance. All members of

the group apparently knew each other, sinoe they immediately entered into

rather animated conversation. They also looked at some papers or magasines,

one of which bore the title, soviet film. Later in the evening KANTOR loft

the restaurant alone, carrying a newspaper or magazine, and ALLEY and ABAR-

CHALIN left together soon thereafter, ALlEY separating fron ABARCHALIN arter

a shori time and returning to his residence alone.

The two oriental-looking

foreigners remained in the restaurant and later joined two other men who also

appeared to be foreigners. One of the latter two left the restaurant at about

0050 hours and drove off in a car registered to Willian VALENGIA, an education

student born on 9 Maroh 1936 in Chicago.

The other unidentifled foreigner was

a Negro who left the restaurant at 0015 hours.

6.

We will forward to you any additional information that may be received

concerning the mattors reported above.

CSCI-3/762,234

2

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32327314 Page 3

---

