# 124-10111-10141

## Page 1

1124-10111-10141

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORMI

LANGUA

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10111-10141

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE. NUMBER: 62-109090-1ST NR 457

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1965

- PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

WC, REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

10/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953 DocId: 32155889

Page 1

---

## Page 2

50953

DIABCTOR, FBI (205-23375 SECRET

9/25/98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-SL0/rede

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_ (

6/75/55

SAC, WFO (105-61285) (800)

ALL IOWAT

HENDI! TO

PRONE SONN OC

NICOLAS MICHATLOVICH MITROP ANOV

ISA

(00 :CV)

776454.

... SPLE

ande

I2/89

BeCVlet dated 4/30/65.

Translator,

Institute of Modern Languages, Incorporated,

on 6/7/65, NIKHAIL STEPAN SOTOYEEY 1322 18th Street,

1. No, advised SAW. SCOTT JARRETT, JR. that during 1946-47

while a displaced person at Saltaburg.

Adatria, he was the

editor of an anti-communist publication called

the "Flame.

SOLQWNY realled that during this time subject was on the

start or this putriotion and contribited anti-communist

artioles designed to discoursge displaced persons from

returning to Rism18.

SOLOVIEV commented that the Rusalans

in the Soviet Sector made strong protests to the Americans

regarding these publications.

to chile.

SOLOVIEY stated that in abort 1948 subject immigrated

SaLOVIsy did not know subject prior to 1946-47

and knows nothing a his background prior to this time.

SOLOVIEV subsequently Innigrated to the U.S. and did not hear

of or from aubjeot until about two years ago uhen he

corresponded with the subject, During thia correspondence

aubjeet asiced him 1f he would recommend that subject cone to

the U.S,

saLavIay told him it would not be easy but that he

would find a place.

SOLOVIKY stated that after imigration to U. S. and

while subject uns at the Univernity of Inryland, about two yours

agO,

he had occasion to mut and talk with subject.

At this

time subjeot stated he had been associated with the Undum

of Chile in remarch work as a Profenor of Physics.

"Iso understood that subjeet did research work &

overment of Erasil and would apend three of

year In Brazll on this researer.

ORIGINAL FILED IN

2 - Bureau

2

- Cleveland (105-9372)

1

(5)

SECRET

DocIA: 32155889

Page 2

162-109090 - 1STNRafter 457

NOT RECORDED

199 JUN 28 1965

CIA HAS NO OB.JECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

-AE.FR 4129193)

17/22/98)

---

## Page 3

WFO: 105-62250

SECREL

SOLOVIEV again saw subject in March, 1965, at

which time aubject atated he was working in Cleveland.

Subject commented he enjoyed his work but was somewhat

remorseful that he is the oldest man in the project.

As a result of his association with the subject,

SoLovis was of the opinion subject is strongly

anti-communist, hated the communist

system and most certainly

would have no association or connection with organizations

attempting to repatriate persons to the USSR,

He stated

he felt certain subject would report to the FBI any contacts

or approaches which might be made to him by Soviet

intelligence personnel or otherwise.

By way of background SOLOVIEV was associated with

12n. Washington, D. Ca, and overseas (S

for a period of about nine years since the 1950'S.

He 13

however, no longer connected with

expived and hits program discontinued (5) culM

Jhas CS]

He has recently completed a

translation of the

Varren Commiasion Report on the assassination of President

KENNEDY Into Hissian In his present employment.

tronslation was not done for the Warren Commission,

SECRET

NH 50953 DoeId:32155889

Page 3

---

