# 124-90115-10030

## Page 1

124-90115-10030

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90115-10030

HQ

62-108665-79

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO :

CIA

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/12/1974

2

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32340459

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

PECRET /SENSITIVE

NTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

12 AUG 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

:Intelligence Division

: Mitchell Livingston

WERBELL: II1

Reference is made to TDFIRDB-315/07634-74,

dated

10 August 1974, which reported on the growing

concern of the Bahamian Government about renewed

secessionist activity in Abaco. In addition to the

intormati

Which

also provided a

representatie of in a ve epor

August 1974 the

following text of

memorandum

for the Secretary of the

Bahamian Cabinet:

PLAYE

CIA HAS NG OBJECTION 76991744

prepared

DECLASSIFICATIONI AND/OF 29 ord

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

ExCops FoR

IN THIS DOCUMENT. BrACKETS

13-18

"Please be advised that on 3 August

1974,

information has been received from

Babana

overseas

contacts thatechester

OCHOWSKI, alias

Chester GARY:

has recently

een in touch

wi

Mitchell LOWERBELL, and

as reported that

WERBEtt is stiff planning

specified revolutionary activity in Ablaco.

also reported that he has the support

i Government employees

ALL

HENGIN

DATE 60/22/46-0/5668 SLOGA

officer to

in Abaco (the namedof

Robert ARMSTRONG

has been put forward as a

possibility).

There is

also

a suggestion

that Robert

VESCO might be financing some

AUG 15 1974

of the activity."

identified

Ins "eyerseas centas" deseribad abour wal

in Washington, D.C. 1

Mid not identify the "U.S. Government employees"

62-1686650

CLASSIFIED'KBY 910116.

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF ELO

2741661531 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B (2) .

IMPOSSIBLE

TO DETERMINE

DATEROE AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

58 AUG 221974

Y SECRET/SENSITIVE

1H 50953 DOrTd: 32340459

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET/SENSITIVE,

3.

The files of this Agency reflect that Robert

ARMSTRONG and Chester ZOCHOwSKI are known to your

Bureau and their involvement in this matter has been

eportea in previous correspoggence to this Agency.

Although

reported ZOCHOWSKI.

alias

as "Chester GARY," it is believed that this

refers to "Chester GRAY."

The above information is being furnished to

nation you deem appropriate.

or at one for aurel conever.

includingl

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

David H. Blee

David H. Blee

CIRA-0444-74

SECRET/SENSTIVE

2

NH 50953 DocId: 32340459 Page 3

---

