# 124-10369-10030

## Page 1

124-10369-10030|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10369-10030

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-A9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

WH

TITLE:

DATE: 04/07/1967

' PAGES:

296

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DICTATION VOLUME XIV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, LET, TTY, A/T, MEMO, CABLEGRAMS, LHM, S/S, RAP SHEETS

v9.1

IT 50953

25

DocId: 32319396

Page 1

---

## Page 2

M. W. C. Sullivan

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

• Mr. Deloach

Wick

Mr.

Rosen

SECRET

dism

4 0-61

Sullivan

Mx. W. A. Branigan

Branigaa

Mr. Cregar

Mr. Lonthan

ASSASBINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

NOVENEER 22, 1963,

DALLAS, TEXAS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIF CATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT FOR BRACKET

JBH

7-15-93

R2/2SR9-25-93

The purpose of this memorandum is to recommond that

We

disseminate information from our l

Jinformant bearing (S)

on the asenssination of the late President Kennedy.

the Contral

lis the sensitive Soviet source who contacted

Intolligence Agency (CIA) 1-16-67 And volunteered

to furnish information. le le being handled by representatives

of CIA and Special Agente of our New York Office.

(S)

has recently reported certain detatis

concerning

Soviet

Fenotion to the assassination of president

Kennedy •

roported the Soviets had the KGB (Committee

for State Security) make an extensive study of the assassin

ation and, as a result of this study, the KGB concluded that

President Kennedy was killed by representatives of a sroup of

nonopolists, characterized as the military-industrial complex

in the United States.

The KGB felt that Prosident Kennedy had

tried to limit the activities of this group of monopoliste

and therofore they planned his assassination.

(s)

further reported that the Soviets folt

that President Kennedy's death was a great loss, not only for

the United States and the Soviet Unlon, but for the whole

world.

According to

the soviets felt that theys,

could trust President Kennedy and could deal with him on a

cooperative basis.

further stated that the Soviets CS)

mourned President Kennedy's death, a situation which

(S)

considered very unique inasmuch as the person being mourned

was a leader of another country.

The information furntshed by

to that previously furnished to us by

1s very similar(s)

Yuri Nosenio, a Soviet

defector whose bona fidos has not been established.

62-109060

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/SS FITS)

REL:cIs (3)

EGRE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X CDCG)

CONTINUED - OVER

HH 50953 DocId: 32319396 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan

RE:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

62 109060

We feel we should disseminate this data since

we have previously disseminated the information we received

from Yurd Nosonko regarding the assassination even though

we recognized some of the data was not subject to proof,

particularly, that occurring within the Soviet Union.

Ve feel that by documenting I

jas a "confidential (S)

Informant, contact with whom has been insufficient to

establish

his reliability," we will alort other agencies

that the information has not been established as true.

We have received information from numerous other

sources that the Soviets did mourn

the death of President

Kennedy and that Soviet leaders felt they could work with

President Kennedy.

ACTION:

It you approve, we will disseminate the data furnished

by the

informant as set out herein to the Department, (3

to socret Service, to State Department and to Central

Intelligence Agency.

Leoticeas

of mig anal cam setting fruth

mas Papach

512/6p.

hesin rel

SECRET

HH 50953

DocId: 32319396

Page 3

---

## Page 4

1 c. D. Deloach

W. C. Sullivan

Nr. Lenihan

NOTE :

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67 which

approved this dissemination.

to protect the identity of our l

ur This letter, 16 classified "Sgeret

source and his S

intormation, the unauthorized disclosure of which could result

in serious damage to the internal security of this country.

1/14/99

(JFK)

CLASSIFIED BY SPI ELK, gA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

GRODRI

Excluded fr

automatic

downgradins and

declassification

391-10039

NW 50953 DooId: 32319396 Page 4

---

## Page 5

- Llaison

Mr. Lenthan

(6)

NOTE:

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67

which approved this dissemination.

"Secret" to protect the identity of our l

This letter is classified

source and

his information, the unauthorized disclosure of which would

rosuit in serious damage to the internal security o2

country.

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/

(S)

GROUP 1

Excluded rom

putomatio

downgrading

declassification

391-19930

HW 50953

DocId: 32319396 Page

5

---

## Page 6

HW 50953

DooId: 32319396

Page 6

---

## Page 7

NW 50953

DooId: 32319396

Page

7

---

