# 124-10320-10465

## Page 1

124-10320-10465|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10320-10465

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

190-5749-3X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: WILSON

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/05/1977

* PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

8

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC RPT

v9.1

NH 50953

2

DocId: 32312148

Page 1

---

## Page 2

IN ED STATES DEPARTMENT

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION:

JL TICE

SECRET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Flold Offico File i:

Title:

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

12/17/64

NY 100-117844

MARK LANE

Office:

New York, New York!

Buraou File :

100-409763

ATI INFORMATION CONTATED

HAREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCHEE

WHERE SHOTS OTHERWISE

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsis:

MARK LANE resides 164 W. T9th St., No, and is ar

attorney at-law with offices located at 156 5th Ave., NYC.

LANÉ

18 also National Chairman of the Citizens' Committee of Inguiry

located at 156 5th Ave., NYC. LANE reportedly: addressed

Budapest, Hungary, 4/5/64; received funds fron

convention of dian 1964; was Co-Chairman of the National Committee

on the Integration of the Legal Profession of the National Lawyer's

Gu1ld, 5/64; as of 8/17/64, was Vice Chairman of the NYCAHUAC;

received support of the NY

throughout the US during 1964 speaking on his theories regarding

the assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. LANE travelled

to Europe In April and May, 1964, during which time he spoke on

the KENNEDY assassination in various countries. In Italy LANE

supported by elements of the Italian dU LANE interviewed by FBI

agents 4/29/64, at which time he was uncooperative.

LANE

reportedly writing

"rush to Judgment,"? book on the KENNEDY assassination to be called

In early 1904, LANE formed the Citizens SoIR

committee of Inquiry In NYC with branches in other sect 098 off 315803

the US and Europe.

Classified By 9863 SOD

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

-P-

Declassis on: OAD.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

PEE-PENSOLA

1N THiS DOCUWENT. <P 5/11/98

100-409763150

72S 8

SECRET-

croup

Exclude

from

DECLASS 3 5668320/102

automatic

downgrading and

declassification

(IF14)

This document contans neither recommendation! nor conclusiona of the FBI. Il in the property of the FB! and la loaned to

-pour agency: it and its contenta are not to be di

ibuted outside your agency.

40-5149-31

EMCLOSUN

NH 50953 DocId: 32312148 Page 2

---

## Page 3

C

* SECRET

T-86

Via Legat,

(5)

letter

358803

claise per gnother-arency?

ther atte

sIScKTCE-+07972091

22042

cover page

SECRET

NY 50953

DocId:32312148 Page 3

---

## Page 4

¡SECRET.

NY 100-117844

According tONY I-85, MARK LANE, while in

Rome,

stayed at the Hotel

ELvezia and

further

his hotel expenses were paid by GIANFRANCO CORSINI,

vera- not

Sera"

journalist of the publication, "Paese

agend En way, 1064) NY I-B6, pother governmental

which conducts intelligence type investigations,

furnished information that

on April 1, 1964, MARK

LANE addressed a gathering

held in the apartment

Of CHARLES KELLER, an American artist I Ying at

Via del Gesu, 8g Rome, Italy ANY T-8& Stated that

approximately 12 persons attende. this

meeting,

many of whom were either members of the Italian

Communist Party (CP), or were linked 1n

some manner

with

the Itallan Communist movement

Hy r-86 stated that the mesting had been

organized by GIAN RANCO CORSINI, the foreign

editor of the publication "Paese Sera"

and CARLO

LEVI, an Italian artist and author and Italian CP

Deputy.

During his speech on the OSWALD case,

LANE stated he had been invited to attend the

convention of the IADI In Budapest, Hungary, and

that his expenses for the tilp to Bulapest and

other European citles Incliring Puris and London,

were being par for by the Hungarian Government?

LIn May, 1964, NY I -87, a

contidential

source abroad,

advised that the

"Paese Sera"

is a publication of the

• CP

or Italy 7841

SPSC.+.DCE-LDX-7-LT-TY

i Apole intestate any ang wA

returned to the United

arriving at

Kennedy International Airport

New York City,

at 5:11 p.m. on April 20, 1964, aboard Scandinavian

Airlines System, Incorporated, flight number 91aidyU)

-21-

ISECRET!

NH 50953 DocId: 32312148 Page 4

---

## Page 5

UN

SECRET

¿D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT

ISTICE

CIA HAS NO ORLECTION TO

DECLASSIECATION AND/OR,

Copy tos

RELEASE DE GAINSORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 5/11/98

Repat oh

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

12/17/54

Floid Ollico Flie is NY 100-117844

Burocu File fle

THis:

MARK LANE

SECRET

stew York, New York!.

200-409763

Characters

ALAS INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

SECURITY MATTER - C

Ave., NYC.

Is also National Chairman of the Citizens: Committee of Inguiry.

located at 156 5th Ave., NYC. LANE reportedly: addressed

on the Integration of the Legal Profession of the National Layer'g

throughout the US during 1964 speaking on his

the assassination of President JOHN F.

theories regarding

KENNEDY. LANE travelled

to Europe In April and May, 1964, during which time he spoke on

the KENNEDY assassination in various countries. Un Italy LANE

supported by elements of the Italian CP LANE Interviewed by FBI

agents 4/29/64, at which time he was uncooperative.

reportedly writing a book on the KENNEDY assassination to be called.

"Rush to Judgment.

In early 1964, LANE formed the Citizens!

committee of Inauiry in NYc with branches in other sections

617/93

the US and Europe.

Classified by 5.503 7

Declersity on: Orpha 15k

Per

Sasses wide

(JAK)

DECLASSIFTED EY 5668-SLA

lide

6. 619

(JFK)

100-409763-1504356

SBOREI-

Bracketed

Per another

letter

from automatic SpS-DEE-L+

720-941

downgr

1ng and

declassifisation

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

2ạ Ma? 1977

Data

Thus docusent contatos bolther recommendallon. no conelusions of tha FBI. ll is the property of the FBl and la doonod lo

your aquncy; li and lia contenta sre not to be dintlbuted oulade your agoney.

NH 50953 DocId: 32312148 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

NY 200-117844

(1u)

Rome,

According to NY I-85, LARK IANE, Hhile In

stayed at the Hotel Pace

Elvezizand further

his hotel expenses vere paid by GIANFRANCO CORSINI,

well-known journalist of the

Sera"

publication, "Paese

+B: 59941527

on April 7, 1964, MARK

LANE addressed a gachering held in the apartment

Of CHARLES KELIER, an American artist Ilving at

Via del Gesu, 89 Rome, Italy. I

approximately 12 persons attende. this meeting,

many of whom were elther members of the Italian

Communist Party (CP), or were linked.

with the Italian Communist movement.

some manner

that the meeting had been

organized

by GIANFRANCO CURSINI,

editor of the publication "Paese Sera"

LEVI, an Italian artist and author and Italian CP

Deputy.

During his syeech on the OSWALD case,

LANE stated he had been invited to attend the

convention of the IADI in Budapest, Hungary, and

that his expenses for the tilp to Bulapest and

other European cities Inoling Puris and London

vere being paid for by the funsarian Governmenti

En May, 1960

NY I -87, a

confidential

source abroad,

advised that the

"Pase Sera"

15 a publication of the CP

of Italy ARu

LANE returned to the united states, arriving at

1964 NY I-88 advised MARK

Kennedy International Airport

New York City,

at 5:11 p.m. on April 20, 1964, aboard Scandinavian

Alriines System, Incorporated, flight number 911z adul

#336/803

bracketed info, in

-21 -

Der anotten agency's

tHer 0lf0l, 6-20-94

WH 5095ASS-1832712116772086

(SACRET

---

