# 124-90155-10006

## Page 1

124-90155-10006

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90155-10006

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68530-113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

WMFO

HQ

DATE: 04/08/1964

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

NOSENKO 1964 REPORTINGS

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32340191 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 TRev. 90-29-63)

Sy 186

103X/

FBI

Date:

4/8/64

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Transmit the following inSeleC:i. AND/OR

I BASE iN CIA INFORMACH

Via -

ARTER THS DOCUSENT. EXCEPT A bRAkES DEATH 3864 540149(5F1)

5-26-98prioriey)

-CHA ADDRESSED ONtY PAS-CASAFETE: 5618-560/5S0

1-1,12,14 * 15

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

ral (65-6530

DEVL/.Ou

FROM: SAC, WFO 1134-5437 Sub A)

4)

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

EXCIPE

ESP - R (KGB)

(00: WFO)

(4)

@Braise

Mes

ReWrOairtel 4/7/64, (e l

NOSENKO was again interviewed on 4/3/64,

by

SAs

THOMAS A. MENDENHALL, ALEKSO POPTANICH and MAURICE A. TAYLOR.

Since interview of NOSENKO is being discontinued for the

present,

effort was made to cover a variety of topics and as

many Individual cases as possible.

Information furnished by

ENOSENKO is set forth under cases captioned as follows;

UNSUB: (RNU) [ACTOR T(S)

(U)) The meager data available from CIA memo to Director

of 2/28/64, was disgussed with above source.

He stated his

was ascertained by mere chance and he was

unable to furnish any additional facts whatever

ga d

DONARD I. MARCIN 1S>

This case was discused walerly with source whe

was unable to add a great deal to previous

furnished.

information

Source confirmed the statement that ALBINGER/

3- Bureau - 1- fu befT RA

1 - New York (RM)

CLASSIEIED

EXTENTED

RE SOS FOR

FAM. 1. 1-21

DATE GE SIEN

DECLAS

1 - WEO

MAT: kls

(5)

+0865-68530113

& AFR

1964

ARACIES

AIRTEL

Approved:

cate

CONTENTIAL -

÷13 (0) 03

Spect At CharE sents 1

111. 11004

7TH 50953 DOCTO: 32340191

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEAS

CONFIDENTIAL,

WFO /134-5437 Sub A

It was considered that

was

engaged in spotting for

american intelligence and was not an officer. Source statec

the file is in hands of the Second Section (CI Intelligence),

First Department (American),

second Directorate,

and further

contact by the Americans with TOMASHEVICH will

UNSUB; (FNU) [JONESIS

-(5)

be awaited?

Sourea advised Unsub [JONEs Was a prominent millionaire

Baptist, laymanywho visited Russia several times and was a friend

of former President KENNEDY and President JOHNSON. Source

stated JONES was last in Russia in January, 1964, and planned

to return April, 1964, and said he was being studied for

•ecruitment by KGB.

with one LUCIA (LNufs ource related JonES fad become acquainted

who was a fashion show director at

"Don Modeli' on Kuznetski Most (Street). He stated KGB

learned JONES was a staunch Baptist and

important church layman

who should not drink or have girl friends since he was married

and had a family.

He stated in 1963 KGB succeeded

a photo of subject drinking wine and caressing BRAy ten (l

she was partially unclad but they were unsuccessful in obtain=

ing pictures of more

Source advised in 1964

intimacy with JONESland coopted her services for succeeding

operations against (JONES"/ The case officer

because 15 hiS DERA, and recruitment of JoNest destred

because of his highly placed friends and associations.

CIRCIL ANSON KRAFT 13) fEE

aka SVYATOI" 7(5)

Source identifie

& photograph of[KRAFT and described

him

as a Baptist Ministex.

from near Chicago,

Iflinois, who

visited Russia in 1957 and 1963, and also made another trip

there between these visits.

Source said subject was approached

oy KGB on all three visits and indicated KGB interest was base,

on the fact KRAFT made many Speeches and Lectures and had a

radio program or appeared on radio.

Source stated KRAFT was an

interesting character and clever individual.

Source stated ir

1957 KRAFT had a girl friend by name NADESHDA IVANOVNA KALESHNIKOVA:

who Jived in Leningrad and who was a KGB agent with CRYPTONYM

"VERA." A recruitment approach was made in 1957 by KONSTANTII

CONF

•NTIAU

= 3%

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340191 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

WEO 134-5437 Sub A

19(4)

CONFIDE

ENTIAL

DUBAS, then Chief of the 7th

talked with the KGB officer but was not recruited.

a Department (Tourist) , [KRAFT](E)

In 1963

After renewed friendship

With KRAFT,

and recruitment

designated friends, if they came to Chicago.

Source advised

that gespite this ostensible recruitment it was his opinion

" In support of this opinion, he

Source advised the

name of the word "SVYATOI"T E

means holy or blessed In Russia®

18 Bussia

UNSUB; (ENU) MARTENS

(MARTINS) (5)

(%)

Source was interviewed concerning subject but was

unable

to furnish additional data which would readily identify

the subject.

Source stated he was quite certain that the

University at which subject was employed was located in

Nashville, Tennessee.

Source mentioned that he had made

the recruitment of subject personally following arrest by KGB

agents posing as militia in a hotel at Uzhgorod and advised he

had personal knowledge of subject and could identify his pictures.

Source mentioned that another agent of KGB was involved when

subject was apprehended during the course of homosexual act.

KGB

had obtained photographs of subject in similar unlayful

activity with an agent of KGB in Moscow by name of (FNU)

the CRYPTONYM "SHMELOV. "JE(U)

It was

used in an operation against

(ROBERT JAMES BARRETTJIn 1959. (5)

BERNARD DAVID PECHTER ] (5)

Source advised his recollection of this case was

not very

clear.

He vaguely recalled that during recruitment he

Colonel GRUSiA, First Department (American

and that photographs were made of subject with GRUSHA and an

officer of the 7th Department (Tourist), Second Main Directorate,

ch

CONFIE

INTIAT

4

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340191 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

WFO 134-5437 Sub A

CONFIDENTIAN

were to be used as blackmail against subject. Source mentioned

RUShA was a veteran of the service who had served in the U. S.,

and always worked for the first Chief Department, First Directorate

until 1960, when he was transferred to the Seventh Department,

First Directorate, and posted to Indonesia.

This officer may

be Identical with VLADIMIR ARSENEVICH GRUSHA./CS

[и)

J(5) (4)

Source repeated that

was recruited while

working at the Anglo American School in Moscow at the end of

1962 or early 1963.

The reason for recruitment was her access

to personnel of the Embassy and it was particularly planned to

who was of immoral character, against code clerks

of the Embassy:

He repeated that the

basis for recruitment

was blackmail following her involvement sexually with a Negro

engaging in sexual relations

these pictures revealed intimacy with a

in 1958, no C did not feel this constituted suiticient evidence

to blackmall this particular person.

3(1)

STUART JACK SEBORER

OSCAR SEBORER

MIRIAM ZEITLIN SEBORER

Photographs of subjects were displayed to source

who stated that he had seen pictures of OSCAR and STUART SEBORER (5)

in the office of the First Department,

Second Directorate,

possibly around 1960 or 1961.

He said he had heard about

the

case but could furnish no details and did not know who had

mentioned it or shown the pictures.

He thought possibly

was VLADISLAV M. KOVCHUK Or MIKHAIL GEORGIEVICH MATEEV

(U.)

J(s)

Source advised that KGB had studied captioned

individual but had not recruited him or even made serious

i a not de crust

contact with the subject. Source recalled that the brother

of subject, ar.

from

Sverdlovsk, had agreed to assist kGB and nad contacted

subject but later reported that it was a difficult situation

CONFIDINTIAN

- 5

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340191 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

H8O 534-8437 8UD ARE UDONTENTIAL

and

the meetings were very emotional

and subject was suspicious

of the contacts with him. Source advised KGB was in turn

suspicious that subject was connected with American intelligence

and the case was left hanging.

|(S)

Photographs of EVGENI PETROVICH GOLUBEV and VLADIMIR

IVANOVICH GOLUBEV were displayed to source who was unable to

identifv either picture, as the individual who met with

on one occasion. He stated he had been shown a photo-

graph of the individual in

question by CIA and believed his

name was SERGEI GOLUBEV.

THOMAS /PALA

WHITNEY

(5)

Source

adviseg, when he entered the second Directorate

KOZLOVNA SOP52 WHITNEY Was already recruited and VENTAMIN A.

He stated that

it consisted of items of news and bits of political information

items of interest concerning the American Embassy and data about

a KGB agent in 1952 and was regarded as unsympathEtic with

the Soviet regime.:

Source mentionedJULIA was personally s

acquainted with NIKOLAI KHOKHLOV, Soviet defector and said in

1941 they had attended special courses together in Moscow in

preparation of under cover work in area occupied by the Germans.

Source said he had heard from officers of the first Directorate

that (JULIA lad separated from WHITNEY and that YURI ROSIVOROV S

n, seeing her and having relations

GEORCY BOLSHAKOY (8) 4)

During the interview

source mentioned the name of

subject and advised that BOLSHAKOV was a personal friend.

He :

stated BOLSHAKOV is an employee of GRU currently working under

cover for the press agency Novosti (APN) in Moscow, under his

correct name.

Source stated that BOLSHAKOV cooperated with

the source

in Moscow in return for favors extended by the

source.

UNISON BENTIAL,

- 6

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340191 Page 6

---

