# 124-10279-10019

## Page 1

124-10279-10019|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10019

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-12-221-1791

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/02/1967

5

POLIT MATTERS, GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS,

ENVOLVEMENT, PUBLIC EVIDENCE, ACAPULCO KILLINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

19.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32301681

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2: =

.., 8.

• ROUTINE

C

TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGÉNI

Inteuigence Information Cable:

IN 44383

STATE/iNR

DIA

NMCC/MC

( SECDEF

JCS

ARMY NAVY,

AIR)

CIA/NMCC

NIC

USIA

NSA

ONE

PAGE 1 OF5

OCR

ORR

SDO

. DES

PAGES

AID

CGS

This material contains information affecting

the National Defense of the United States

within the meaning of the

Espionag

Secs.

793 and

794,

the

transmisson

or revelation

of which in any manner to an unauthorized person

prohibited by law

Laws, Title 18,

U.S:0.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP /

Excluded from automatic

downgroding and

declassification

CONFIDENTIAL

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

CITE TDCS- 314/13191-67

021914 Z

slitical 1822710.a

COUNIRY:

MEXICO

DIST

2 SEPTEMBER 1967

DOI

30

AUGUST 1967

ALL "FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

ALINES UNCLASSIFIE

ATE 9-18-95 BY 5668511

SUBJECT:

VIEWS OF MEXICO CITY POLICE OFFICIALS ON INVOLVEMENI

OF

GOVERNOR OF GUERRERO IN MASSACRE OF COPRA WORKERS

ACQ.

• MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (1 SEPTEMBER 1967) FIELD REPORT

NO. HMM= 11,303

¿CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

SOUR CE

K10197

KP1-14-981

(.)

(SUMMARY"

REPORT, ON THE

BASIS OF EVIDENCE SEEN BY THEM PERSONALLY, IHAT PROFESSIONAL

GUNMEN EMPLOYED ON A PERMANENT /BASIS EX GUERRERO GOVERNOR? 91

RAIMUNDO

ÁBARCA ALARCON WERE INVOLVED IN THE MASSACRE OF

COPRA WORKERS IN ACAPULCO ON 20 AUGUST 1.691

18 %

DOUBTED

THAT THE INCIDENT WILL RESULT IN THE REMOVAL OF THE GOVERNOR, '

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

232

59 SEP 1 2 1967

109-12-221

7TH 50953 DoCTO: 32301684

Page 2

---

## Page 3

279-10019

SEP 5 12 0u PM °67

LIAISON

IN 44383

TDCS - 314/13191-67

'PAGE 2

OF 5 PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL

(classifcation): (dissem controls)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-WHO IS DESCRIBED AS A PAST-MASTER AT CONCEALING HIS INVOLVE -

MENT IN MURDERS, BECAUSE THERE IS NOT ENOUGH "PUBLIC EVIDENCE"

AGAINST HIM, AND BOTH THE GOVERNOR AND FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR

DEL ANGEL FUENTES WILL PROBABLY BE ABSOLVED. OF CHÄRGES OF

COMPLICITY IN THE CRIME. END SUMMARYO?

1o ON 30 AUGUST 1967,

STATED

THAT GUERRERO GOVERNOR, RAIMUNDO ABARCA ALARCON. WAS INVOLVED

IN THE MASSACRE OF COPRA WORKERS AT ACAPULCO, GUERRERO, ON 20

AUGUST, ROCHA EXPLAINED THAI PROFESSIONAL GUNMEN WHO FIRED

ON. THE COPRA WORKERS FROM THE UNION BÜILDING WHICH THE COPRA

WORKERS SOUGHT TO ENTER INCLUDED SIX PERSONS WHO SERVE AS ARMED

ESCORIS FOR GOVERNOR ABARCA AND HIS AIDES:

20

STATED THAT HE HAD CHECKED PERSON-

ALLY ON THE CASE AND HAD VERIFIED THAT THE GUNMEN WHO FIRED

FROM THE UNION BUILDING WERE PROFESSIONALS KNOWN TO BE IN THE

C)

PAY OF GOVERNOR ABARCA ON A PERMANENT BASIS.

ADDED THAT

ALL EVIDENCE HE HAD SEEN TO DATE INDICATED THAT THE : KILLING OF

THE COPRA WORKERS WAS THE RESULT OF THE GOVERNOR'S HAVING SENI

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN. DISSEM

NH 50953 DocId: 32301684 Page 3

---

## Page 4

IN

44383

314/13191-67

PAGE

3 OF 5

PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL

(classification) (dissem controls)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HIS HIRED GUNMEN TO DEFEND THE UNION BUILDING AND UNION OFFICIALS

WHEN WORD WAS RECEIVED IHAI THE COPRA WORKERS WERE MARCHING ON

AÇAPULCO TO DEMAND AND END TO THE ILLEGAL LEVY WHICH THEY HAVE

BEEN FORCED TO PAY TO UNION LEADERS AND THE GOVERNOR.

NOTED THAT ALL MAJOR INDUSTRIAL, AND ORGANIZED AGRICULIURAL

AND MINING ENTERPRISES DELIVER ILLEGAL PAYMENIS IO IHE GOVERNOR

WITHOUT EQUIVOCATION, AND THAT IT IS MOST IMPROBABLE THAT THE

COPRA WORKERS WOULD EVER HAVE CONSIDERED PROTESTING THEIR OWN

LEVY HAD THEY NOT BEEN INCITED IO DO SO BY CESAR DEL ANGEL

FUENTES, FEDERAL DEPUTY FROM VERACRUZ.

3.

STATED THAT IT WAS MOST UNLIKELY THAT THE ACAPULCO

KILLINGS WOULD COST ABARCA THE GOVERNORSHIP SINCE THERE IS NOT

ENOUGH "PUBLIC EVIDENCE" OF ABARCA'S INVOLVEMENT.

PLAINED THAT UNLESS EVIDENCE POSSESSED BY FEDERAL AUTHORITIES

WERE PUBLISHED, PRESIDENT GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ WOULD HAVE NO

REASON TO ORDER ABARCA OUT OF OFFICE.

StATED THAT

ABARCA WAS FULLY AWARE OF THE EXTENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S IN

FORMATION ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENI AND WAS WISELY PLAYING THE

ROLE OF INNOCENT SCAPEGOAI.

COFFERED THE OPINION THAT

THE GOVERNMENT WOULD PLACE GREAT PRESSURE ON CESAR DEL ANGEL

•CONFIDENTIAL. NO FOREIGN DISSEM

279-16019

NH 50953 DocId: 32301684 Page 4

---

## Page 5

219-10019

IN

44383

TDCS - 314/13191-67

PAGE 4 OF 5. PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL

(classification)

(dissem controls)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• TO CEASE HIS ACCUSATIONS AGAINST ABARCA, AND THAT IN HE END,

BOTH ABARCA AND DEL ANGEL WOULD BE ABSOLVED OF CHARGES OF E

BEING AMONG THOSE PRIMARILY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ACAPULCO:

KILLINGS.

40

NOTED THAT ABARCA HAD MANAGED TO AVOID BEING IM-

PLICATED IN THE MÚRDER OF ACAPULCO POLIICAL LEÄDER, ALFREDO

CISNEROS, ALTHOUGH IT WAS FAIRLY

de permid

Max, ed

CERTAIN THAT THE GOVERNOR WAS INVOLVED IN THAT KILLING AS WELL.

SAID THAT LOPEZ CISNEROS HAD BECOME GREEDY FOR GRAFI AND

HAD TRESPASSED ON THE GOVERNOR'S OWN PRIVATE GRAFT PRESERVE, SO

THAT THE GOVERNOR WAS FORCED TO ELIMINATE HIM WHEN BUSINESSMEN-

PROTESTED THAT THEY WERE BEING FORCED TO PAY GRAFT TO TWO"

MASTERS AND WERE RECEIVING NO PROTECTION FROM THE GOVERNOR:

ACCORDING TO

ABARCA IS A PAST-MASTER AT CONCEALING HIS

TRACES WHERE KILLINGS ARE INVOLVED, AND THE PRESS IS NOT EVEN

MENTIONING THE GOVERNORISS INVOLVEMENT IN A PREVIOUS MASS KILL -

ING EARLIER THIS YEAR. FIELD COMMENTS IN MARCH 1967, THE

NATIONAL FARMERS CONFEDERATION CONCS ACCUSED GOVERNOR AB ARCA

OF ORDERING THEKILLING OF TWENTY-FIVE PEASANTS IN SAN ANTONIO

DE LAS TELÁS BYRURAL GUARDS HEADED BY ELEUTERIO ELGADO/ALTO

"SAND HIS FAMILY, ON 30 MARCH, THE GNC SUDDENLY DROPPED ALL

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NH 50953 DocId: 32301684 Page 5

---

## Page 6

IN

44383

+5-314/13191-67

PAGE

5 OF 5 PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL

(classification)

_(dissem controls)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CHARGES AGAINST THE GOVERNOR IN WHAT APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN A

POLICICAL DEAL• BELGADO HAS BEEN IMPLICATED IN THE KILLING

OF LOPEZ CISNEROS.)

5.

SECONDED

ALLEGATIONS STATING THAT HE

PERSONALLY HAD SEEN EVIDENCE THAT GOVERNOR ABARCA WAS MORE RE-

SPONSIBLE THAN ANYONE ELSE FOR THE CONSPIRACY TO KILL LOPEZ

CISNEROS AND FOR SENDING GUNMEN TO THE ACAPULCO UNION HEADQUARTERS

WHERE THE KILLING OF COPRA WORKERS TOOK PLACE.

6. FIELD DISSEM: SIATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO.

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NOFOREIGN DISSEM •

219-50019

NH 50953 DocId: 32301684 Page 6

---

