# 124-10280-10064

## Page 1

124-10280-10064

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10280-10064

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-7244

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/02/1977

PAGES: 4.

SUBJECT: OBA, CUBAN EXILE, DETENTION, VENEZUELA, CUBANA BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NN 50953 DocId: 32302127 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LLIGENG

'• PRICRITY

Intelligence Information Cable

CENTI

WARNING NOTICE

IN 237306

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/DIR NSC/S

SDO

D/DCIXNIO

FBI

PAGE I OF 4 PAGES

eporting

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Category 58 (1),

Exempt from

Impossible to Determine

General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

Autoratic Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE

REPRODUCED

CITE TDFIR DB - 315/03788-77

RAL COVETY

DIST 2 APRIL 1977

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING

NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

«NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS-

BISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTIGA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA IRFORMATION

DO 1

wer

31 MARCH 1977

SUBJECT:

GOVERNMENT CHARGE_OF A UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT JEK

ATTEMPT TO DISRUPI CUBAN VENEZUELAN

RELATIONS

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 81 APRIL 197%) FIELD NO.

7626

ACQU

SOURCE :

A TO STATE: NO DISTRIBUTION EXCEPT TO MR. SAUNDERS

TO FBI

: FOR MR. LEAVIT

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEL

Ar: 015 977

DATE 98194 BYSP&MALEEL

(JFK).

1. ON THE EVENING OF SI

MAEX-106

JITT VI

ENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

1109-12

22%

RECEIVED, AN INFORMAL COMPLAINT FROM

THE CUBAN EMBASSY

IN CARAÇAS

THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT (USG) WAS ATTEMPTING TO DAMAGER 12 1877

RELATIONS BETWEEN THE CUBAN AND VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENTS.

IN ITS

STATEMENT TO VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS THE CUBAN EMBASSY CHARGED THAT

THE USG HAD DELIBERATELY DIRECTED A FOREIGN NEWSMAN TO CONTACT

COAAAPERSISY OFFICIALS IN AN EFFORT TO EXTRACT INFORMATION ANDY

NH 50953 DocId: 32302127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FORM: 3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

9.75

EDITIONS

280-10064

RECEIVED

SECRET

(classification)

APR

copies made

111973.556/j19

Avila

for review at bill by

USCAre 3/14/78 requesti

IN 237306

(See Ducile #02-117290)

TDFIR DB-315/03788-77

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE a OF 4 PAGES

¡ SO UNMER DISSEMINATION AND US DE THIS INFORMATION SURECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

amandi

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE REPRODUCED

OR STÄTEMENTS FROM THEM WHICH COULD BE USED IN AN ARTICLE

CONCERNING THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER AND

CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES IN GENERAL. THE TONE OF THE QUESTIONS

ASKED AND MATERIAL COVERED BY THE NEWSMAN DURING HIS 30 MARCH

INTERVIEW

WITH

CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS ROBERTO

RQUE Z AND

PEDRO

O ME Z, INDICATED TO THE CUBANS THAT THE JOURWALIST INTENDS

TO WRITE AN ARTICLE TYING THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT TO THE CUBAN

EXILE MOVEMENT AND THE CUBANA BOMBING.

2.. THE CUBAN EMBASSY ADMITTED THAT MARQUEZ AND GOMEZ HAD BEEN

IN ERROR IN MEETING WITH THE NEWSMAN, BUT INSISTED THAT THEY HAD

MADE NO COMMENTS WHICH COULD BE CONSTRUED AS BEING DETRIMENTAL TO

THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OR CRITICAL OF VENEZUELAN HANDLING OF THE

CUBANA CASE. HOWEVER, THE CUBANS WARNED THAT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT

THE NEWSMAN MIGHT CLAIM THAT HE HAD DISCUSSED HIS INFORMATION WITH

THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN CARACAS, THE EMBASSY, THEREFORE, WANTED IT

CLEARLY UNDERSTOOD THAT CUBAN OFFICIALS HAD NOT PROVIDED THE NEWSMAN

WITH ANY COMMENTS OR MATERIAL WHICH. MIGHT APPEAR IN THE NEWSMAN'S

FUTURE ARTICLES.

3.

ON THE OTHER HAND, THE CUBANS CHARGED THAT THE FOREIGN

NEWSMAN HAD THE BENEFIT OF A WIDE-RANGE OF INFORMATION ON CUBAN

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302127 Page 3

---

