# 124-90137-10468

## Page 1

124-90137-10468|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90137-10468

HQ

CR 105-89457-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

HQ

NY

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

V9.1

NY 50953 DoCId: 32337702 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

1 James

pich

6-30-61

SC

(5668500/6C-55)

7-20-98

AIRTEL

CLASC TIED BY 5668 SLD/KR

T'O:

12/16/53

SAC, New York

1134-56091

(JFK)

Classified kh 9803220/8el

From:

Director, FBI

Declaasin

Wu DARF 211,326

INY 3186-PSIC)

REG- 85

ClA, by fraison, advised Bureau of desire to

contact captioned eSI in connection. with its luban operations (C

CIA of opinion/PSIl is in position/to assist in the c

@Contact of LeSloy

CIA being held ir(C)

abeyance pending Bureau's approval.

Bureau's position in this matter flexible.

Ve can refuse CIA authority to contact PsIlor we can leth

CIA operate PSIon its own.

We can also serve as interC

mediary between line Pilena dIel

Promptly contact PSI and discreetly ascertain

if he is in position and willing

CDo not adviseIsTof CIA's connection at C

this time.

information; ClA believes estable toc

because of his employment with

cuband airlines in vew York City, and fact he is in contoct

with persons regularly traveling.

to Cuba.

Furnish Bureau

results of your contact with/PSTIc In event (PSIlis in positione)

witting to ssis? you should furnish your obseruations

concerning

proposed, use in this matter.

1 ?!: 106!

DECLAS

RELEASE OF CAMINFORMATION

PSIfis Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at BRACkt)S INI's

Dy AND

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLouch .

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

TOJUL 1

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

Lalewild

development by New York Office since November,

and has furnished data concerning operations of cubarto

Airlines and personnel employed by cuband.

In addition

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TIO

60-14.98.

JFK

PITAL

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SECKSA

HW 50953

DooId: 32337702 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re:

TO SAC,

NY 3186-121

Vork

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

1, s Ea.

The has made available copies off incoming and outgoing

New York and navano

of unusualvalue; but because

of his position, has a goodb

potentiala sCIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not

etil it has received authority to co so fron

Bureaue

Tre allowing CIA to make contact with (eSI,7 it<

is belleved it would be best for our interests to determine

that Agency,

ue will then consider wat stand

take in this matter.

PONTFIMENTAL

HW

50953

DocId: 32337702

Page

3

---

