# 124-90110-10081

## Page 1

124-90110-10081

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR: 105-44214-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NY

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/26/1967

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

NIKO IPERIFANOIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

ITT 50953

DocId: 32334088

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• Mro James

SECRET

SAC, New Vort (105 26748)

REG. REG.47

Director, FBI (105-11274

Co-6-9

NIKO IPERIFANOS,

aka.

IS - GREECE • CUBA

Cross

seid toy

Declassry cas

1/26/62

ant

Re report of SA Christopher J. Pappianou 12/30/60

captioned "Viko Iperifonos, akdo, IS - Greece.

since most recent allegations against subjeci concern

dealings with Cupa, you should add Cuba to the character of

this case.

During your continued inquiries of subjects

should consider adding other nations to the character if

5-3048

information developed warrants

1 * WFO

CLASSIFIED BY 5648 ScO/eST

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_/

FEJamsb

(5)

mali

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EX COPI BACKETS

SFK)

KD 5-26-98

NOTE:

Subject is of Greek descent and reportedly holds Cuban citizensh

In recent years he engaged in barter deals by trading cuban

sugar and tobacco for muritions and other hardware:

In additions

he is alleged to have been in contact with a Hungarian intelligence

agent in 1944 and with an Albanian intelligence officer in 1955.

During 1949 : 55 he reportedly lized in Italy where he engaged in

narcotics and arms snuggling

wouiries of the subjects activities

in 1950 failed to indicate subject was engaged in subuersive

activities or activities inimical to the interests of the

United States:

In addition, New York has had infrequent contact

with the subject during post two years concerning Cuban matters.

He furnished New Tork information in such matters and claimed he

was employed by a firm that furnished financial backing for, the

projects of the former Cuban (Batista) Government.

Tólson s

Parsons:

Belmont

Callahan

DeL. oach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

ALL INFORESAR

BERCIN IS UNC

WHERE SHOWN OTHER

4

, 9JAN 31196K

MAIL: ROOM E

_copies made

MAILED 27

2-86•78,53619

JAN 2 5 1961

2а: дорв ратові

FBIRQ bY

COMM-FBI."

acca righope request

(Sao-Bur 11~ 492-117290)

SECAET

TELETYPE UNIT

NH 50953 DocId: 32334088

Page 2

---

