# 124-10291-10041

## Page 1

124-10291-10041

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD, NUMBER:

124-10291-10041

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-207-3357

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

11/11/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, POLIT, VENEZUELA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/07/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC ADMIN PAGE

NH 50953 DocId: 32306901 Page 1

---

## Page 2

EDITIONS

.. JEeREd (rynen rilled in

NITELY GENCE

Intelligence Information Cable

® ROUTINE

IN093225

WARNING NOTICE

SENSIFIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 1 OF: 4 PAGES

NO MATE ON!

GER

STR

BIC

STATE/INR

ICS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC

SWS NSA. TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS

< FBI

STATE (SY/I/PIB)

SS/ID

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

SECUR

CIEP

Glassified by

Sategory 5B (1), (2). Impossible

General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CIA HAS NO OBJECGIONES-SJATED AT REGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE 6# SCIA

AEORIRRIKTON REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRETIN THIS DOCUMENT. ExCEpT thE BRACtIS

CITE TDFIR DB-315/11301-76

6-25-97 FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

DIST 11 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET-WARNIVE NOTICE -SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRÄCTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

jail

COUNTRY CHILES VENEZUELA

DOI

21

2 OCTOBER 1976

FBI ADM. MARKUNGS S

DECLASSIF ENVY 5665 5L8 USE

eN 2-26-96

(JFK)

SUBJECT

VISIT

OF

AN EMISSARY OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

PEREZ TO EXPLAIN LATTER'S MOTIVES IN ATTENDING FUNERAL OF

ORLANDO LETELIER

ACQ

SOURCE

CHILE, SANTIAGO (5 NOVEMBER 19'

ST- 7086)

REC-19

A RETIRED MILITARY OFFICER WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS THROUGHOUT THE

MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT. HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE REPORTER.

21 NOV 16 1976

1. ON 21 OCTOBER 1976, ENRIQUE

R

IVA

IDENTIFIED AS A PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT

CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ, ARRIVED IN CHILE AND REQUESTED A

MEETING WITH GENERAL GUSTAVO

I E' I G H, AIR FORCE MEMBER OE THE Justu

FJ1>

chile

70 NOV 30 1976

3

2

SECRET

(classification)

NOV 181976

7TH 50953 DOCTO: 32306901

Page 2

---

## Page 3

291-10041

FORM

1-f08

3413

Use Previous

Editions

SECRET (When Filled In)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

093225

TDFIRDB-315/11301-76

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

• SECRET

10 CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(clasaification)

(dissem controls)

JUNTA. THE FOLLOWING DAY, RIVAS MET LEIGH AND TOLD HIM THAT

HE HAD BEEN SENT BY PRESIDENT PEREZ TO EXPLAIN THE LATTER'S

INTENTIONS IN PERSONALLY ATTENDING THE FUNERAL OF ORLANDO

LETELIER, FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES

WHO WAS ASSASSINATED IN WASHINGTON, D.C. ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1976

AND BURIED IN CARACAS.

2. RIVAS TOLD LEIGH THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ DID NOT MEAN TO

AFFRONT THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT BY HIS ACTION, BUT RATHER THAT HE

ATTENDED. THE FUNERAL TO SHOW HIS RESPECT FOR VENEZUELA'S

DEMOCRATIC TRADITIONS. ' RIVAS SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ HOPED HIS

ACTION HAD NOT BEEN MISINTERPRETED BY THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT

AND THAT THERE WOULD BE NO HARD FEELINGS BETWEEN THE TWO

GOVERNMENTS OVER THE MATTER.

3.

GENERAL LEIGH SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ' ACTION HAD

BEEN BADLY RECEIVED IN CHILE AND THAT HE PERSONALLY FOUND IT

DIFFICULT. TO UNDERSTAND THE PRESIDENT'S MOTIVES. LEIGH SAID THAT

HE UNDERSTOOD PEREZ' RESPECT FOR DEMOCRACY, BUT HE FELT THAT IN

LETELIER'S CASE,. IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SUFFICIENT TO SEND A

5

3

1

4

2

• SECRET?:

(c)-aatlication)

- (dissem controls)

NH 50953 DocId: 32306901 Page 3

---

## Page 4

3413

Use Previous

Editions

SECRET (Wien Filled In)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN 093225

TDFIRDB - 315/11301-76

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

• SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATON AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(olasst/ication)

(dissem controls)

REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRESIDENTIAL OFFICE. THE DECISION TO

PERSONALLY ATTEND THE FUNERAL HAS BEEN USED BY CHILE'S ENEMIES

TO EMBARRASS THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT.

4. WHEN QUERIED ABOUT THE VENEZUELAN INVESTIGATION INTO

i.

THE LETELIER ASSASSINATION, RIVAS SAID THAT VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES

HAD GONE ABOUT AS FAR AS THEY WANTED TO GO IN QUESTIONING ORLANDO

BOS CH, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, REGARDING HIS POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT.

RIVAS POINTED OUT THAT BOSCH HAD POWERFUL FRIENDS CLOSE TO THE

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THAT PRESSURE WAS BEING APPLIED ON

BOSCH'S BEHALF. HE EXPRESSED DOUBT THAT ANY MORE INFORMATION WOULD

BE REVEALED BECAUSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT'S RELUCTANCE TO

PRESS THE MATTER TOO FAR.

5.

THE PRIMARY PURPOSE OF RIVAS' TRIP WAS

TO EXPLORE THE CHILEAN ATTITUDE TOWARD A PROPOSAL BY PRESIDENT

PEREZ TO HOLD A MEETING OF PRESIDENTS OF THE ANDEAN PACT COUNTRIES

TO TRY TO RESOLVE THE IMPASSE BETWEEN CHILE AND THE OTHER PACT

MEMBERS OVER IMPORT DUTIES AND FOREIGN INVESTMENT. VENEZUELA DID

NOT PLAN TO APPROACH ANY OTHER COUNTRIES UNTIL THE CHILEANS AGREED

TO THE IDEA; HOWEVER, THIS MATTER WAS OVERTAKEN BY EVENTS WITH.

5

4

3

2

1

• SECRET

(classification)

5

2

1

(dissem controls)

HTH 50953 DOCTO: 32306901

Page

4

---

## Page 5

VORA

7 - 731

3413 Use Filous

• SECRET

(olassi/ication)

2050291-100433

SECRET (When Filled In)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN093225

TDFIR DB - 315/11301-76

PAGE 4 OF 4

PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REBORT

(diasem controls)

CHILE 'S. FORMAL WITHDRAWAL FROM THE PACT ON 30 OCTOBER.)

6. IN REQUESTING HIS MEETING WITH LEIGH, RIVAS ASKED

THAT HIS PRESENCE IN CHILE NOT BE MADE A MATTER. OF PUBLIC

KNOWLEDGE. FOR THIS REASON, THE MEETING WAS ARRANGED TO TAKE

PLACE IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENSE RATHER THAN AT DIEGO PORTALES

GOVERNMENT HOUSE, WHERE THERE IS A GREATER RISK OF DISCOVERY BY

REPORTERS.

7.. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: A REPRESENTATIVE OF THIS AGENCY

COMMENTED THAT ALTHOUGH RIVAS HAS, ON OCCASION, HANDLED (5)

SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS FOR THE PEREZ ADMINISTRATION, SUCH AN

ASSIGNMENT AS DESCRIBED IN THIS REPORT IS UNUSUAL. IT IS OUT OF

CHARACTER FOR PEREZ TO EXPLAIN OR APOLOGIZE FOR HIS ACTIONS AND

IT APPEARS STRANGE THAT A PEREZ REPRESENTATIVE WOULD ADMIT THAT

BOSCH HAS POWERFUL FRIENDS IN THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT WHEN THE

GOVERNMENT HAS GONE TO GREAT LENUTHS TO ATTEMPT TO HIDE THIS FACT.)

8. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO; SENT TO CARACAS.

REPORT CLASS SECRET- -WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES. AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NÁTIONALS-

5 % .

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

3

2

CLASSIFIED BY REC

DED REPORTING OFFICER. XI

j-2.

FT

7TH 50953 DOCTO: 32306901

Page 5

---

