# 124-90137-10011

## Page 1

124-90137-10011

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90137-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-109117-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/22/1962

4

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JOSE MANUEL MARTINEZ SIERRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32337245

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

1

Liaison

Mr. Cotter

MCT- 30/25-

109119

BY LIAISON

PRET

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

25

mcclass

58540ON

SOARDIR

DADR

10-1

KP N-14O

Alt INFORMATION CONTAINED

HENEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

From:

Subject:

March 22, 1962

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Dirpator, Plans

John Edgar Hooven

Director

JOSE

MANUEL

MARTINEZ SIERRA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

ONIOV3N-0.03%

H00U

29. idj 9T üi

50-VMOS

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach --

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel

Trotter:

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

On January 30, 1962, Mr. William O. Cregar of this

Bureau turnishedkic.

Steve Kuhn of your Agency, by liaison,

copy of a lettez which had been

received by this Bureau from

Martha Agular, who is currently residing at 340 West End Avenue,

Apartment 1-B,

New York City®

Aguiar indicated that she had

just arrived from Havana, Cuba, and had

or Mc. Frank Belsito®

references identifiable with Belsito but show that

was

a representative of your Agency who was

assigned

to Havana in 1953 to 1958.

sald that records

of your Agency axe negative concerning Agular and the there

Was ho indication that this was a matter of interest 20 yous

Agencye

Februazy 14,

former

employee,

a drug

firm.

Havanar Me Chantes- Pfizer and Company ances

She satchat she had arrived in the Unwad

at New

York

City

having leit subzz because

of bes

concern with communist infiltration in that county

Agular, identified her ex-husband as Reuben/uses.

who she said

is currently working in New York with the Frente Revolucionario

Democraticor

18 95

NED BY 5668 SLO/RSP

1 • New York (105-53884)

A0SI/ CLOR

TE NOTE AGE WIN DOI

RDC:njs

(6)

SECRET

ABA!

ETYPE UNIT

Don I1S:

HW 50953

DocId: 32337245 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• SECRET:

Director

Central intelligonce Ageney I (u)

Agusar advised that she had been zequested to make

contact with the fad at Washington, D. Co, and to ask for

FBI Agents

Jand/oz Belsito who

could vouch for the S

loyalty and anticommunist attitude of another Pfizes employee

who was still in Cuba, namely, Jose Manuel Martinez Siezra®

In this letter Agular

indicated that the subject was concerned

by the fact that the former Genesei Manager of peizor in Havande..

Miguel Angel Sabrera.

who is now In the United States,

been chazacterizing those Pfizer employees who are still ir

cuba as communists and as castro agents, Aguiar saia that the

suoject was a close personal friend of

„while the (S)

latteri was in Cuba and

could vouch for the subjett's

anticonmunist reputation. She added that Martinez Sierra had

been working in the anti-Castro underground and that his

superior

incthis regard was one Pedro Lopez who is knoun

to your Agency

and who is a close friend of Frank Belsito.

On. Mazch

So 1962, Aguiaz recontacted our New York

office and

advised that she had received two letters from the

subject which were dated February 8, and 10, 1962, respectively,

in which Martinez Sierra urged her to take whatever action she

could to expedite his request for a waiver of a visa in ordor

that he might leave cuba.

Aguiar said that Martinez Sierra,

who resides at Calle 47, $762 entre Conill y Tulipan, Apartment 5,

Nuevo Vedado, Havana, Indicated that his situation in Cuba

was very precarious as a zesult of his underground activities.

Aguiar sequested that the FBI furnish this informa

tion to your Agency and specifically to Mr.

Agular further

stated that in his letter of February 10,

1962, the subject had advised that the Pfizer Company had for

practical purposes been intervened by the cuban Government ano

asso that he had

I requested the General: Manager of this firm at

Mexico City, Jose

Lored, to attempt to secure a waiver of

visa

for him.

On March 13, 1962, Aguiar made available to our

New York Office two letters concerning this matter. She advised

the first was from Jose Loredo and addressed to the subject and

second was from Pedro Lopez and intended for Mr.

Copies of these communications are enclosed herewith.

(S

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32337245 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Director

Deresad Intelligence Agency

Agular said that

can

secure all necessary

prom the subject's sister-in-

North Adams Street,

Apartment 815, Azlington,

These data are for your information and appropalate

action. No further action or inquiries concerning this matter

are planned by the FBI.

Enclosures - 2

NOTE:

Since this matter apparently concerns efforts of the

who apparently has been working in past with CIA r

activities in Cuba, to leave that

admittance to U.S., it is being referred for

country and gain

handling to CIA.

Classified

of CIA representa

tive in

+ 3-

SECRET

HW 50953

DocId: 32337245

Page 4

---

