# 124-10299-10039

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Datc: 4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10299-10039

TIO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-211-54

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

AISC

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/14/1970

(Restricted)

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF AISC

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO AISC

19.1

a7H 46936

DooId: 32309628

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDKRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTECNINKNT INFORHATION SAKET (JEK MATERIATS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement:

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

E]

Subsection .1B

[]. Subsection 1C

Subsection ?

Subsection 3

Subsection 4

[1

Subsection 5

(intelligence source or method)

(other matter relating to military

defense,

the conduct of tored melations on

living person who provide

confidential information

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

(security or protective procedure

currentiy or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

is For your information: REfeRRED

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

113-7-211-54

XXXXXXXXXX

XXX***XXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

X00XXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

46936

DocId: 32309628

Page

---

## Page 3

5(g)(2)(D)

(i); 2(a)(iii)

(1)(b)(i)

DEPARIMENT OF DEL

LICENCE INFC

alloctind the national defoner of the United

States within the mescted if the sapionge

fawa, Titte 18, U.S. C., See 79J and 794.

The tronamisalon er the roublation of fre

contrate in any menser to na unauthorized

(Classllication and

Morkinga)

DOMINICAN EEPUHLIC

2. SUBJECT: (D) Possible Small Arms Purchases

from Merix A.0. of Germany.

•9, DATE OF REPORT!

PATO. NO. OF PAGES.

K mildary And Naval Matters

4. DATE OF INFORMATION:

8 May 1970

Thie report conta

Plane end/er poit

* of into resort.

715(g)(2XDX(i): 2(a)(iii)(1)(b)(iii)

14 May 1970

2

1 5(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)

t (ii)(1)(b)(iii)

Dominicon

Santo Dorinzo, TOREP

5(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)

(iii)(1)(b)(i)

6. EVALUATION: SOURCE

LINPCAMATION

7. SOURC

SUMMARY!

10 Background.

Available.

2. 4 Speculators.

of Germany

COMMENTS: 44) There is no doubt that the Military are lining up

their election

proniaes and arranging to present their bill to the President, 11 heis elected.

Many hands are stirring the Arms pot in

the DONICAN REFUBLIC but the

"Head Chet"

is still General

FIREZ y Perez.

'He's willing to

look at all offers presented him

by his "Old Colonels" and their contacts, but will still have to see where he

personally stands following

Secretary.

the elections.

President BALAGUER may want a new

Interestingly, Mr.

Cummins of Interarco, in a letter to Mr. Enriquez written

on 29 April 1970 from Monaco,

said there were no surplus FAL rifles available for

sale and new

ones would be $140.00 (U.S.) in Belgium.

Mro Enriquez was going to

Brussels to check NATO for possible direct surplus sale rather than through erix

VA.G-

of.Germany,

so it renains to be seen, who will sell what,

to whom

and for

how much

kickback,

etc.

coariton

DRGU

0-7423

6 1p. 316360-

36360 (CUmmINS

49) Background.

The Dondnican Armed Forces have received the great bulk of their

modemization tron MAG Military Grant Assistance since the Truftilo era ended in

1961.

This ascistance procluded small arms since the Doinican inventory was loaded

with their own

Cristobal carbines,

Spanish CETME's, German G-3'g, Mauser Rifles and

Carbines,

and FAL 7.62 (NATO) Rifles.

Prior, during,

and following the Revolution

of 1965 many of the Government's small ars and munitions were stolen or diverted

to

revolutionaries

812346

Domingo.

and have been used since for terroriat purposes, mostly in Santo

The Arms Manufacturing Plant at San Cristobal and the Chemical and

00001

Explosives Plant at

Villa Mella have been on a caretaker basis since the early

60%g and are not

capable of arms

17-10

_ nu

or explosives production without major infusions

of money,

now machinery and foreign

expertise.

Following President BALAGUER'S

election

in 1966 and his austerity program,

omomP

the military was forced to draw in theimmmme

DOVINGRADING DAT AI

CINCLANT

USCINCSO

COMCARTBSEAFRON

ATFACHMENT ONTA

GROUP-3:

2. Enclosures

DOUNGRADED AT 12-YR INTERVALS

1. (C) Letter fron Q.M.

NOT AUTCMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

General of War Naterials for

the Armed Forces to Mr.

Hernan Henriquez dated 21

DOWNGRADED' AT 12 YEAR INTERVATS:

AUTOMATICAILY DECLASSIEFISD

•DOD DIR 5200 i0

Apr 79, No. 1145

2. (T) Authorization from

Secretary of State for Armed

Forces dated 7 May 1970, No.

10621

1357-21 9

COBY FILED. IN

- 619-10 km)

re many + Marat matter -DR cONFI

BOAT

TAL

---

## Page 4

ORI

5(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)(iii)(1)

CONTIKUNTION SHEET

REPORT NOI

PAGE

PAGES

ORIGINATOH

Santo Domingo,

5(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)

DONINICAN REFUBLIC

](ili)(1)(b)(i)

(Classication and Control Marking»)

belts and make do with the modernization afforded the lst Bde and later the 9th Ba

by USMAAG.

Their did receive some 400 - 500 FAL rifles in 1968 through a barter

arrangement with,

Alexandria, Virginia.

However no major arms pur-

chases have been

made since the T65 Revolution, although several unsuccessfal

attempts were made by U.S. and other Arms dealers periodically to sell various

weapons systems

AK1Bts,

Each time the actual arms bids

"deal"; in the old Trajillo nanner.

2.

t8y Speculators.

a. Mr. Sam Cunuins,

President of Interarmeo, Monaco,

made his start following

WW II selling surplus war materials to Trujillo.

The "Old Dominican Colonels"

still remember both with affection and greed.

Much of the Army is still equipped

with this Interarmco surplus (tanks,

armored cars,

artillery, machine guns, mortars,

has lst chance at any bartering and selling.

Mr. Irving Davidson, Washington,

D.Co, is another power in Dominican selling

circles and much quoted on any type speculation.. He is considered the top contact

in the U.S. by Dominican dealers:

is a ndning claims

Trujillo era.

Vice President.of Santiago, Ince, Clayton, Missouri an

are active in land, hotel and arm

politically, financially, and socially in the DOMINICAN REFUELIC.

1, Herman Herques Tora td i brothar are ars agents for a terende

Dutch and other U.S.

concerns (AR 18,

Stoner, FAL,

They are personal friends

of President BALAGUER and Genorel PEREZ y Perez and associates.

3. 49) FAL, Cal 7.62M (NATO) Rifles Available.

- Enclosure 1 from Air Force

Colonel Felipo/RIVAS/Perdono, Quarternaster-General of War Materials for the

Don!

Dominican Arned Forces, states that his sources have located some 3500 FAL rifles

at $90.00 (U.S.) each there,

Bale in a NATO depot, 35 miles Houth of HamburE GIF, Santo Domingo.

The rifles to sell

or $95.00 (u.S.) each,

He wants

TO 20

Germany to verify the information, and to return with 2 sample

Miles so

they can be examined for suitability.

20m 00

4. Tor import Authorization

nclosure

the dad oration boat can cer, Sacretary co state to

the Armed Forces,

to import 1 FAL Cal 7.62 riMe,

canvas of 2 magazine

capacity; one bipod; one canvas sling; one cartridge fi

Mash fider; 5 magazine of 20 abots each; 2 magazine carrier and one rirle clouning ly

kit to be

obtained from Merix A.G.

of Germany,

SIDEM Intemational.

German Embassy in Santo Domingo put their seal on this importation authorization

and the Arms Agent departed Santo. Domingo. for U.S,-and later Germany on 9 May 1970.

CCIMEN TS :

to There is no doubt that the Military are lining up their election

promises and arranging to present their bill to the President,

if hels elected.

Many hands are stirring the Arms

the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC but the "Head Chof"

is still General PEREZ y Perez.

Hels willing to look at all offers presented him

by his "Old Colonels" and their contacts,

but will still have to see where he

personally stands following

President BALAGUER may want a new

Secretary.

Interestingly, Mr.

of Interanco, in a letter to Mr. Enriques written

on 29 April 70 from Honacu,

said there were no surplus FAL rifles available for

sale and new ones would be $140.00 (U.S.) in Belgium.

Erussels

Mr. Enriques was going to

to beck NATO for possible direct surplus cale rather than through Merix

A. G.

of Germany,

so it remainé to be seen, who will sell what, to whom, and for how

much kdckback, etc.

AM FOR FORGE

---

## Page 5

REPUBLIDA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

•TODO POE LÀ PATRIA:

1140

21 de abril de 1970.

Senor

Hornen Henriques;

Coral Gablos, Mloc56a6

B.'

Estimado Señor Henr§quez:

complace

mucho informarle

que he recibido

toma

dn

la Información por escrito, que me envió con

al Dr. MARINO 4-

RIZA.

Sobre loe Fusiléa FAL Cal. 7-62 (NATO), tengo

bien informente internacion,

que el domingo 19 de abril de

1970, henoe reci

do la giguiente

confirmada y ratificada, de

manere

que no deje lugar para dudas

malos

enfendidos entze

esta otiod-

1a

fuente

en base a documentos.

La Inготmaсiба

informante,

de

que se nos

di6

todo

06 la

nuy confidoncials?

"La

NATO,

está reduciendo

8u8

fuerzas considerablemente,

que.

e dado

origen a que

las armas

esas fuorzas usaban sean rein-

depósitos

de

que

la

HATO

estén siendo puestas

en ven-t

tegradas a 108

te a precio atraetivo,

giendo

su estado cono nuevas;

estas

encuentran on "la

actualidad

en un

depósito de

la NATO a 35 ml.

llas al

Sur de HAMBURGO,

Alemania;

pudiendo

Ser

emburcadas

por.,el

mismo puerto Hanburgo directo

Entre

éncuentran a disponibilidad (3,500) Fusiles

culata de madera

almacén

de U8$90.00,

siendo sufr

US$95.00".

Esto indudablemente, parece

coincidir

con respecto

la partida de armas,

le ninnas aus usted

nos

refiere:

hoso-

tros nos apresuramos a ponerlo a au conocimiento

tal

información

fin

ac que usted la utilier.

Sabo ne

despartado Cunto

interés

en la

Superioridad, que estanoh

pensando

en que

yo miano vieje E

Alemania,

-con nuestra fuenve. info,mativa

a fin

de verificor

partida y apresurar en cuanto

Seunecesarin.outa

transución. Hoco-

bego ningun concreto

dejarlo fuera de Pata

transa-

es

eso viue de estoy envian

Enci No: 1.10l

15(g)(2)(D)(i); 2(a)(ili)

(1)(b)(iii)

---

## Page 6

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

"PODO POR LA PATRIA:

1111'

-2-1

21 do abril dex1920%r

-Continua c 1:6 n-

do esta información

cusnto antes; henos sabido aquilatar y apre

ciar

los servicion que nos a prestado y en alguna fora hemos de

corresponderle.

Especialmente por el interesante

viaje que hizo,

Europa,

en 1969, precismente para esta operación.

Deseo inforrarle además; que ya se han impaitido

las

instrucciones,

confirmadas, de que

nOB

este desecando 102-

vión dos ejemplares de dichos Fusiles,

los cuales examinaremos

para der nuestra conformidad; llegarán dentrc de las nrórimas(96)

horus por avión.

Sobre este particular, esperamos sus prontas noticias v

pare

decision final.

Inmodiatamente recibanos los ejenplares que vos envíang

le avisaré

Como siempre,

entremos trabajando con nuestro mayor enno.

por ofrocer las mayores economías a los fondos

de nuestro

Go-

bierno, a

fin de que nuestra

econonia ges

vulnerada lo menos po-

sible, por lo menos.

en el capitulo oue

concierne a nuestro trabas

300

Usted sabe que esta forma de trabajo

ni norte y mi unico:

ideal &

En espera de 6u6

rontas notici

Le boluda,

tentamente.

нии.

catonel Piloto

Intendenta

General

del Maton

Fuerzas Ariadar

SI' •

Dirección Dablegráfic

TCMABERA

A metido de comeos Dor

Sunto Domingo,

Reto

---

## Page 7

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA

SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS

SANTO DOMINGO, D. N.

-TODO POR LA PATBIA"

7 de mayo de 1970.

10621

-AUTORIZACION-

Ley 36 de

autorizo al

confiere el artículo 3ro. de la

Porte y Tenencia de

HERNAN HENRIQUEZ, Cédula

Personal"

edad,

residente

a importar para las Fuerzas Armadas de la Re-

delidad, de masstras:

2o Fusil "Fal Cel.7.62

culate y empuñadura

de madera y cubro llanerada;

5. Cargadoros da (20) cápsulao cada uno; d

2.- Porta-cargadoras de lona, de dos cargado»

res cada uno;

1.- Bipode para el fuail;

l.o Corren de lona para el fusilit

1.- Rellanador de cargadores; y

1. Equipo de limpieza bási

ido tana ecoit

Las cuslos obtendrá: de

Ja MARIX A.G. do Alonania, J/0

IN LERTARIONAL.

121

ENRIQUE PEROZ

PEREZ,

Mayor

General, Es N

Secretario de Estado de les: Fusrsas Armada:

DAM

Ench Na. 12:

. 17 мм. 70

PDE

5(g)(2)(D)i); 2(a)

(iii)(1)(b)(iii)

---

