# 124-90073-10039

## Page 1

124-90073-10039

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90073-10039

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-7599-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

11/21/1967

PAGES:

27

SUBJECTS:

DAVE YARAS

DAVID YARAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA, IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32328335

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-1047

SECRET

Obtain Bureau authority for toll records of

Chicago number BU 1-8513 (joint residence of LEONARD

DAVE YARAS) •

*3. Conduct investigation requested by Miami

letter to Chicago dated May 4, 1967.

24 Ascertain through IRS,

Chicago, the extent

of their investigation into the activities of YARAS and

LEONARD PATRICK and determine if indictments are forth-

coming relating to the investigation of possible extortion

on the part of YARAS and PATRICK against HERMAN SALES, Inc.

of Chicago.

$5. Attempt to establish coverage of YARAS's

activities while in Chicago.

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES; CALIFORNIA

Refer to Los Angeles letter to Miami dated

August 24, 1967, setting forth information relating to

DELORES GOODMAN, et al, who reside at 1010 North Spaulding,

Los Angeles Los Angeles will afford interviews with JANET

GOODMAN and others at Apartment 5 of that address to de

termine the extent of their knowledge of the activities of

YARAS. Miami is interested primarily in determining if

YARAS maintains a Los Angeles address in addition to those

in Miami and Chicago.

MIAMI

AL!

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

ties of YARAS.

Will continue to follow and report on

the activi-

MEND ETE

JFK TASK FORCE

SECRET

ON

7-9.98 dar

RELEASE IN FULL

SECRET

ACLEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL'

NH 50953 DocId: 32328335

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-1047

SECRET

ADMINIST

ALIVE

SECIET

The extensive investigative period of this report

is noted; however, Miami has been awaiting results of in

vestigation being conducted in Chicago.

The following information relates to recent

bombing activity in the Miami area perpetrated by Miami.

bodiums, the principal suspect being FRANK "LEFTY"

OSENTHAL, alleged Lieutenant of YARAS. It is noted in

this regard that Miami informants have reported that these

bombings are part. of an approved plan of the Chicago family,

ICN, to organize certain bookmakers in the Miami area.

Intormation below relates to contacts with

In regard to his knowledge of the activi-

ties of captioned individual. At the time of original

contact with

he was an employee of CIA.

During

the latter stages of his contacts with

SA WELSH his em-

ployment with CIA had been terminated. (S)

U)

BOMBINGS - MIAMI AREA

JANUARY - JUNE, 1967

A.

CONTACTS WITH

CIA INFORMANT

Io On July 24, 1965, CIA provided in memo forn

information received from a reliable source.

was later identified as

advised that DIEGO BORGES waS

acting

an agent for three Americans who were seeking to buy

pistols,

explosives, blasting caps, hand grenades and

silencers.

The identity of the Americans was not

although he believed they were members

ot the

Klux Klan or possibly the John Birch Society.

SECRET-c-

И).

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32328335 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-104S SECRET

In conclusion,

templating

tr

August 8,

1967.

INFORMANT

stated that he was cou

racas,

Venezuela, on Tuesday,

(И)

SECRET

MA T-1

MM

Ten 2

MM T-3

MM 1231-CTE

MM 998-C

PCI RAY WALDEN,

Chicago Office

SECRET

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32328335 Page 4

---

