# 124-10291-10042

## Page 1

124-10291-10042

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10042

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-207-3360

DOCUMENT INFORMATION.

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 11/11/1976

PAGES: 5-

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, POLIT, VENEZUELA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/07/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC ADMIN PAGE

NN 50953 DocId: 32306902 Page 1

---

## Page 2

.10.75

EDITIONS

JOUncI (wynen rilled in)

INTELE GENCE

intelligence Information Cable

® ROUTINE®

IN 093225

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

OER

STR

BIC

STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC

FBI

SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS

STATE (SY/I/PIB)

SS/ID

SECUR

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

CISP

ded Reporting Officer.

Category 58 (1)/(2. Impossible to-Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.

Exempt from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption

CIA HAS MORODEOTROMIT@TION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

DECLASSIFICATION MIRKOR TATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

RELEASE,

NORMALON

111021

RMATION BEPORTE

, EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

3/619 TOFIR DB- 315/11301-76

JHE

DIST

11 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND:

METHODS IN'OLVE -NOT RELEASANE IN FOREIGN NATIONALS NOT RELISSARL: TORTA

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY CHILE/VENEZUELA

FBI ADm. I

ONlY

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 510/KS

ON 2:26-96 (JEK:

DOI

21-22 OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT? VISIT OF AN EMISSARY OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

/PEREZ TO EXPLAIN LATTER'S MOTIVREC.

IN ATTENDING FUNERAI. OF

ORLANDO LETELIER

ACO :

"CHILE, SANTAGO (S NOVEMBER 19513 O5A)

DE-44

FIELD NO.

0,778 S)

SOURCE: A RETIRED MILITARY OFFICER WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS THROUGHOUT THE

MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT. HE IS A FAIRLY RELIABLE REPORTER.

Ven Chile

Б NOV 19 1976

1. ON 21 OCTOBER 1976, ENRIQUE

IVA

GOMEZ, SELF-

IDENTIFIED AS A PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT

ven

CARLOS. ANDRES

ER EZ, ARRIVED IN CHILE AND REQUESTED A

MEETING WITH GENERAL GUSTAVO X

E I GH, AIR FORCE MEMBER OF THE

chile

5

3

2

70 DEC

61976

SECRET

(classification)

NH 50953 DocId: 32306902 Page 2

---

## Page 3

7-73

TORM 3413 Use Pies

Editions

SECRET (When Filled In)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

291-10042

RECEIVED

INTELLIGENCE DIV.

IND 93225

TDFIRDB- 315/11301-7

NOV 2#2975

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

• SECRET

(classt/ication)

FURTHER

DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECI

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(dissem controls)

JUNTA. THE FOLLOWING DAY, RIVAS, MET LEIGH AND TOLD HIM THAT

HE HAD BEEN SENT BY PRESIDENT PEREZ TO EXPLAIN THE LATTER'S

INTENTIONS IN. PERSONALLY ATTENDING, THE FUNERAL OF ORLANDO

LETELIER, FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES

WEO WAS ASSASSINATED IN WASHINGTON, D.C. ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1976

AND BURIED IN CARACAS.

¿. RIVAS TOLD LEIGH THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ DID NOT MEAN TO

AFFRONT THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT BY HIS ACTION, BUT RATHER THAT HE

ATTENDED THE FUNERAL TO SHOW HIS RESPECT FOR VENEZUELA'S

DEMOCRATIC TRADITIONS. RIVAS SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ HOPED HIS

ACTION HAD NOT BEEN MISINTERPRETED BY THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT

AND THAT THERE WOULD BE NO HARD FEELINGS BETWEEN THE TWO

GOVERNMENTS OVER THE MATTER.

13. GENERAL LEIGH SAID THAT PRESIDENT, PEREZ' ACTION HAD

BEEN BADLY RECEIVED IN CHILE AND THAT HE PERSONALLY FOUND IT:

DIFFICULT TO UNDERSTAND "THE PRESIDENT'S MOTIVES. LEIGH SAID THAT

HE UNDERSTOOD' PEREZ RESPECT FOR DEMOCRACY, BUT HE FELT THAI IN

LETELIER'S CASE, IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SUFFICIENT TO SEND A

5

*3

2

1..:

• SECRET

(clusaificatton)

(dissem controlg)

NH 50953 DocId: 32306902 Page 3

---

## Page 4

3413

Use

Previous

Editions

• SECRET

(classification)

SECRET (Wlien Filled In)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN 093225

TDFIRDB - 315/11301-76

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATON AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(dissem controls)

REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRESIDENTIAL OFFICE: THE DECISION TO

PERSONALLY ATTEND THE FUNERAL HAS BEEN USED BY CHILE'S ENEMIES

TO EMBARRASS THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT.

4. WHEN QUERIED ABOUT THE VENEZUELAN INVESTIGATION INTO

i.

THE LETELIER ASSASSINATION, RIVAS SAID THAT VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES

HAD GONE ABOUT AS FAR AS THEY WANTED TO GO IN QUESTIONING ORLANDO

BOS CH, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, REGARDING HIS POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT.

Cuba

ven

RIVAS POINTED OUT THAT BOSCH HAD POWERFUL FRIENDS CLOSE TO THE

VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND THAT PRESSURE WAS BEING APPLIED ON

BOSCH'S BEHALF. HE EXPRESSED DOUBT THAT ANY MORE INFORMATION WOULD

BE REVEALED BECAUSE: OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT'S RELUCTANCE TO

PRESS THE MATTER TOO FAR.

5.

THE PRIMARY PURPOSE OF RIVAS' TRIP WAS

TO EXPLORE THE CHILEAN ATTITUDE TOWARD A PROPOSAL BY PRESIDENT

PEREZ TO HOLD A MEETING OF PRESIDENTS OF THE ANDEAN PACT COUNTRIES

TO TRY TO RESOLVE THE IMPASSE BETWEEN CHILE AND THE OTHER PACT

MEMBERS OVER IMPORT DUTIES AND FOREIGN INVESTMENT. VENEZUELA DID

NOT PLAN TO APPROACH ANY OTHER COUNTRIES UNTIL THE CHILEANS AGREED

TO THE IDEA; HOWEVER, THIS MATTER WAS OVERTAKEN BY EVENTS WITH

5.

3

2

• SECRET

(classification)

(dissem controls)

NH 50953 DocId: 32306902 Page

4

---

## Page 5

FORM 3413 Use PreOus

Editions

291-10048

• SECRET

(olassification)

SECRET (When Filled In)

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN0 93225

TDFIR DB - 315/11301 - 76

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT

TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

(dissem controls)

(S

CHILE'S FORMAL WITHDRAWAL FROM THE PACT ON 30 OCTOBER.)

6. IN REQUESTING HIS MEETING WITH LEIGH, RIVAS ASKED

THAT HIS PRESENCE IN CHILE NOT BE MADE A MATTER OF PUBLIC

KNOWLEDGE. FOR THIS REASON; THE MEETING WAS ARRANGED TO TAKE

PLACE IN THE MINISTRY OF DEFENSE RATHER THAN AT DIEGO PORTALES

GOVERNMENT HOUSE, WHERE THERE IS A GREATER RISK OF DISCOVERY BY

REPORTERS.

7:, (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: A REPRESENTATIVE OF THIS AGENCY

COMMENTED THAT ALTHOUGH RIVAS HAS, ON OCCASION, HANDLED

SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS FOR THE PEREZ ADMINISTRATION, SUCH AN

ASSIGNMENT AS DESCRIBED. IN THIS REPORT IS UNUSUAL. IT IS OUT OF

CHARACTER FOR PEREZ TO EXPLAIN OR APOLOGIZE FOR HIS ACTIONS AND

IT APPEARS STRANGE THAT A PEREZ REPRESENTATIVE WOULD ADMIT THAT

BOSCH HAS POWERFUL FRIENDS IN THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT WHEN THE

GOVERNMENT HAS GONE TO GREAT LENOTHS TO ATTEMPT TO HIDE THIS FACT.)

8. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO; SENT TO CARACAS.

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS -

5

4

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS

3

= CLASSIFIED BY REC DED REPORTING OFFICER. XG_-2.

2

1.

• CEC DET

1 50953 DOCTO: 32306902

Page 5

3

---

