# 124-90137-10178

## Page 1

124-90137-10178

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90137-10178

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83195-76

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 05/12/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

CUBAN SITUATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

V9.1

NW

50953 DocId: 32337412 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1

SIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

0/0R

DECLASSIFI

RELEASE OF VIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT ENCOOL BRACKE

MECN2U

COPIES MA PRESI

FOR REVICW AT FOING AND/OR DELIVERY

105-83195

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

---. BY LIAISON

D

0.0

May 12, 1961

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

5/15/61

KP

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans Muk

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

AIM INPOSMACION CONCHTNES

Subject:

CUBAN SITUATION

clivity

HERDINES UEULASSIRIXD

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

74.

EXCEPT WIESE SHONA

e

for nig

A reporter for the "New York Journal-American,"

on way 8, 1961, furnished the following

; information:

ORMERTISE

The reporter stated he had recently been in

covering the Cuban invasion and had spoken

many Cuban exiles and personal sources.

As a result,

came to the conclusion that the invasion had been badly

Do g

handled by the central Intelligence Agency (clay from every

aspect.

He stated that sone of the exiles were of the opinion

that the invasion was doomed to failure by design

on the

part of CIA and they are holding CIA responsible.

the reporter stated he was able to ascertain fron

5303

his

for

sources the names of the ciA personnel allegedly responsibleu

*stated he

the invasion. He furnished

these names as Bernard Barker,

David Morales, one

Sone

Avignon and a

colonel

who had

Ween portened as bane

co

193

8/30

8814095

at the United States Embassy in the Dominican Republic®

addition,

he stated he had heard that

CIA was

one Frank Bender

also among those responsible.

The above-mentioned reporter identified two of his

sources of the foregoing information as former Colonel Mariano

raget and Enrique Paraion, who were formerly connected with the

Fish

Bureau for the Repression, of connunist Activities (BrAL) in

Tolson

Parsons

BRAt was an active organization in buba during the

Mohr

the reporter checked the above-

Belmont.

Callahan

CIA employees with Faget who apparently maintainer

Conrad

Faget allegedly verified the inforation

DeLoach.

Evans

the reporter had sceived concerning the part played by these

Malone

Rosen

76

Tavel

Trotter

1 - {105-89923 (CLI

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram

VHN: bar

MAY 15 13

Gandy

(EMAILROON

SECR

BAUNIT

-116

HW 50953

DooId: 32337412 Page 2

---

