# 124-90158-10070

## Page 1

124-90158-100701

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90158-10070

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

CR 105-136669-399

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 04/18/1968

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 50953

20

DocId: 32340413

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CENTRAL 'INTELLIGENCE AGENE:

This e at so inad orm to effeching the rational Defense of the unted fees within the need perones rohinies Law Fille

Sees. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited iy lay.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SEE PACE I OF 2

PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOI FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS-311/03645-68

18 April 1968

XEROXED ORIGINAL-RETAI

COUNTRY

DO!

SUBJECT

ACO

SOURCE

Sanie

Pin;

CUBAN

.5

Cuba

17 February 1968 and December 1967.

Identification and Location

o1 Political Prisoners

REC 22

Spain, Madrid (11 March 1968)

FIELD NO.

8876

• A member of a group of Cuban emigres who have

been trained in

the techniques of information collection and who have provided

useful reports since early 1962.

from

the Cuban emigres identified below.

The Information CAR lobt ine@BJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Eugento Yanez/Pelletier,

subsourcé of páragraphe le cuban réfugee and

BerN THIS DOCUMENT.EXCOpT FOR thE

CC-3572 former resident

of Havana City who left Cuba on 19 February 1968.

BRACKETS

was imprisoned for six years and eight months and was

released from La Cabana on 8 January 1967.

Jesus Yanez,,

His brother,

KP 2-4-98

former aide to Fidel Castro,

is serving 15

at La (Cahana;

17 February

stibsource

last visited his brother on

SLO/KSR

9968, on which date he was held in galera 34.

4-17-98

1.

As of 17 February 1968,

the following were among the

prisoners held in galera 34 of La Cabana prison:

(JFK)

Jose Luis/callareta

ALL FBI INFORMATION. CONTAINED-

Alberto Blanco

Fernando, Sanchez Amaya

MERLINLIS UNCLASSIFIED

Orlando Castro

Rafael del Pino Siero

DATE 4-17-94 BY

Enrique? Mrater

Alberto Cruz

David Salvador

ORIGINAL RAIN

Vernesto de la fe

/Sosa/ Chabau (fnu

Rafael/ Nenendez Aponte

Luis/de Posada

(Juan Naldes/ Moreion

Mario, Salavarria

Gonzalg Miranda Garcia

Kirvs/ Long (U.S.

citizen,

serving 30 years)

Santiago Verdeja \

•

Except for Mario Salavarrta,

who has a nearly useless

leg,"all of the above were in good health.

The prisoners in

136

DCS

CON-F-I-D-EN-T-I-A-L

(elossification)

DIA

(dissem controls)

ARMY / NAVY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NSA

XAX

(For Fiold Distribution see linal paragraph)

71

forro::

HSCA-12912/047 gigsm

NH 50953 DocId: 32340413 Page 2

---

## Page 3

62 MAY

C=O-N-F-I-DENT_

tEA.

To a 5 1366699940010

#I MAY 8

1568-311/03646-68

very

menI

ad since Januar womers ard

and macaroni.

@lowed to receive one 20-pound

food package per montir.

$ 1903.

• IN. F81

Hernando, fernandez,

who was police chief under

Batista, died in galera 34 of a heart attack about 15 February

1968.

On 17 January 1968,

Pastor Valdes Molina was shot at

La Cabana; he had been serving 30 years but had escaped

from

a work farm and attempted

to leave Cuba clandestinely.

When

he was trapped on the coast,

he wounded

one of his pursuers,

was taken to La Cabana and shot.

Subsource of paragraphs 4 and 5:

CC-3573,

Perez,

a Cuban

refugee and former resident

Las Villas Province, who left Cuba

on 6 January

worked on the General Gusev Farm Group until December 1967-

The General Gusev Farm Group comprises about 6,000

caballerias of land that extend southward from La Paloma

military base,

Los Arabos Township, to the town of Aguada de

Pasajeros, Las Villas Province.

The farm group

was

transferred from the MININT to the INRA in 1967; it is under

military administration and most of its labor force consists

of political prisoners, of which there are more than 700

employed in farm

labors.

Major Fajardo is farm

group

director; Orestes.

Hurtado, lieutenant, holds an

important

post at the farm

group.

5 ,

The following political prisoners

were among thöse

working at the General Gusev Farm Group:

Ende/ Figueroa,

Gerárdo /Yeras,

Olten vezana, Humbertg Mezana, retrif Yeras,

Julid feble,

Luis/Pujido, Ramon Gonzalez;

Alberto/ Galvezy

Julio, Calvez, Juan Perez,

•Everardo/ Saida,

Manuel Vasallo,

Ramon /Castro,

Israel Horta, and Ruben /Perez.,

Jose conzalez, Lazarg Marin,

6. ' Field Dissem: None.

C-O--N-F-I-DEN-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN I (SSEM

NH 50953 DocId: 32340413 Page 3

---

