# 124-90074-10003

## Page 1

124-90074-10003-

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90074-10003

HQ

CR 105-107224-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

MM

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/26/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

JORGE ALONSO PUJOL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

19.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32329378

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM

NO.

5010-11

10

JNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

SECRET

Memorandum

3333

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-100984)

6-17-

1B DATE

2/26/62

WAS AG OBJECTION TO

ALAESIRICATION AND/OR,

I SAC, MIAMI (105-5147) (P)

BELGAGE C LIA INFORMATION

N THS ROGUMENT. EXCEpT FOR thi

RACKETS

ON pg.4

SUBJECT:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

ALL INFORMATION CONTA MAD - CUBA

place Cre. tomKP1-23-98

FDREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

165-87908

EXCRENS WIESEND CLOWN

OOZERNT SE

On 2/5/62, MM 791-S furnished information

(Fat 900)

concerning a report which is circulating in Miami and

may also be circulating in other parts of the U. S.

OSEI

Iranslator SOPHIE Y. SALIBA translated the reporte

from Saanish to English. (Igformant's report stated he

was furnishing a printed document which is allegedly a

document containing secret details regarding the inter-

(u)

vention of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in the

invasion of the Bay of Pigs on 4/17/6igl It also concernste

MATION

the organization of the Cuban' Revolutionary Council and

certain dispositions by the American Government.

A few days before the assembly at Punta Del

SLD/K5R

4-23-485

8/21/97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

talked with ANITA AIZCORBE DE CARBO. She stated she had

very high hopes for the successful outcome of the efforts

Of DI. GUILLERMO ALONSO PUJOL, who had gone to _Cuba to

further discuss the exchange of tractors for prisoners

under the pretext of going to see his son, who was F(A

among those ill with hepatitis. An epidemic of hepatitis

was reported among the prisoners from the Bay of Pigs invasion.

Bureau (RM)

105-107224-14

- Miami

(2

--105-5147)

10134-601 Sub A) Tus Insaf

105-4334)

- 62-3573):

ELS: pIm

(&)

REC- 24

LENCIES

80 MAR 1.1962

SOPRIATE

AND

125

Exempt frot

ODS

Date of Declass

1110

соту

2

slinite

5-78

80L-X3

DECRET

KW 509

Mca 323

328378

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MM 105-5147

Mrs. CARBO stated some firm, informant believed it was

Fiat, had given two million dollars, and it was going to

be possible to secure the twenty-eight million dollars

worth of tractors to be sent to Cuba according to CASTRO's

specifications; however, it this failed, she understood

that Dr. ALONSO PUJOL intended to blackmail the U. S.

Government; that is, if the U. S. did not want to give

the money which was necessary, a document could be turned

over

to some person who would read same at the assembly

in Punta Del Este, and the U. S. would be obliged to

furnish the money

for the tractors-C@(ul

to Cuba, and from Cuba back to Panama. MM 791-S stated

he thought DI. PUJOL might have made the above statements

to Mrs. CARBO, perhaps to encourage her or to make her

believe that the tractors for prisoners exchange is not a

dead issue. L

ULISES/CARBO is the husband of ANITA ALZCORBE DE...

CARBO, and is one of the prisoners taken during the 4/17/61

Invasion effort, EGalU)

CuBA

Subsequent to the conversation with ANITA fi d

CARBO, and after having received several reports regarding

the developing anti-American feelings of Dr. ALONSO PUJOL,

informant saw the document, which is enclosd herewith, and

thought there might be some connection between the

conversation of DI. ALONSO PUJOL and Mrs. CARBO on the one

hand, and instant document on the other fu

20

SEGALA

HH 50953\ DocId: 32328378 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

MM 105-5147

Informant noted that only a very intelligent

person could have written the report; the person who furnished

the memorandum or information about Mr. BENDER of the CIA

is someone who was in contact with important persons in

the U.

S

DI. PEDRO MARTINEZ FRAGA is a close friend of

PUJOLL

-(U)

FLA

MM 791-S stated that Dr. JOSEXMANUEL CORTINA is

a very good friend of PuJOL, and he and puJol have the same eff

Bay of Pigs invasive effort.E

pinto resardine the role it

the U. S. in the

Informant stated DE. GUSTAVOYCUERVO RUBIO WaS not

Involved in the preparation of this document,

as. he is a

personal friend of PUJOL, but he is also a real friend of

the U. S., and would have had no part in prepring this

document.

He further stated that DE. SUAREZ In Ahe

Former cuba stato docume , ve he is not interested in

antagonizing or slandering the U. S., and further, has been

very occupied with personal family problems for the past

three months.

3(1)

MI. FRANCISCO JAVIERY CABALLERO, co-owner of the CA

Pasajero Funeral Hone, and a well-known person, arrived in.

Havana about 2/3/62.

He is acquainted with the activities

of ALONSO PUJOL in Havana.

He stated ALONSO PUJOL was seen

several times in the same

car with BLAS ROCA, well-known

Cuban Communist Party leader. The son of ALONSO PUJOL was

out of prison, and spent at least two days and two nights

going around with ALONSO PUJOL, and he also visited BLAS

POCA.

Further, the son, whose name is JORGE ALONSO RUJOL,

was allowed to go to the aiport to

say farewell to his

father when he departed from Cuba.

3.

SECHEN

WW 50953 DocId:32320378 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-5147

Informant concluded there is some direct and

indirect evidence that Dr. ALONSO PUJOL is the author of

the document Ce

7 (U

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR., contacted l

local representative of CIA, and was advised CIA learned

of the document and its contents prior to its release,

sometime in 11/61. CIA investigated after its relase,

and

ascertained it was written by the purported signer, Dr. PEDRO

Council. Mr.

the document were reseased to a limited list of persons,

upon authrity of Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA, head of the Cuban

Revolutionary Council. Mr.

Stated it is now

estimated that about 150 copies have been released.

It

is noted that the copy furnished by MM 791-S to the Miami

Office is mimeographed and would, of course, therefore, be

indicative that other copies were made, and

that as a

matter of fact, a stencil was cut with the intention of

running off more copies.

CIA believes this document may possibly have

been prepared as a political power play designed to

promote the formation of a Cuban Government in Exile;

however, if this was the original intention, the idea is not

now being pushed. L

(4)

Since CIA is already aware of this document, and

of its circulation and contents, no copy is being furnished

CIA locally, nor is any designated for them on a circulation

basis; however, three copies of the translation of the

document are enclosed herewith, in the event the Bureau

should desire to furnish a copy to any other agency of

the government. E478(4)

(5)

4.

ORK.

NY 50953 DocId: 32328378 Page 5

---

