# 124-10369-10022

## Page 1

124-10369-10022

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10369-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-Y8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

JONES

TO :

WICK

TITLE:

DATE: 12/28/1966

PAGES: 322

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME XII

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/23/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, TTY, LET, NOTES, LHM, PRESS RELEASES, TESTIMONY, NEWS

ARTICLES, TRANSLATION

v9.1

HH 50953

10

DocId: 32319388

Page 1

---

## Page 2

¡SECRET

12632

1-MT .

Mohr

1-Mr. Sullivan

1-Mr. Callahan

1-Mr. Conrad

SAC, NO (100-18022)) (8)

11/32/66

Baractor, ra (100-357510)) (5)

1-Mx- Baker

1-Mr. Allen

OFFICE OF THE SOVLET MILITARY ATTACHS J(E)

Classisd by

SPUBJA/GCL

IS - R; CLOSED CIRCUIT TELIVISION

Declassay guy

SARA 75/84

8218,326

ReBualItel

10/25/66 reflecting installation

authorization. (SlU

This letter 1s for information and rocord purposes. (5) (Y

In response to your request, a new closed-circult

television system was recently installed in connection with

the captioned case.

The systen consists of a remtely

controlled video camera, zoom lens and pan-tilt hend mounted

in a special disguise.

A 17-inch monitor is located nearby

provides a view of the pertinent seone. Monitor personel

can rehotoly change the focal length, focus, apertures and

field of view of the lens.

Certain compensation for changing

light conditions can also

be made at the monitoring site. (5)

Attached 1s a technical addendu listing the

equipment installed together with special circuit and cable

date to assist WO personnel in the mintenance of the

equipment. Appropriato inventory changes should be made *(a)

1 -[80-829 ](5)

ETA ENO

MCLOSURE

Enclosures (2)

N.

(5)

15.

Mon!

1966g.

11390

?!

1D NOV 8Q 1966

UNRECORDZE COP

REC- 47 ($1

Tolson

Del oach.

Mohr .

Wick

Casper -

Callahan

¡Conrad

Felt

Gale

losen

illivan

DEC 5

nes -

ly

53 DEC 9

1966

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ATHT

50953

DonTd: 32319388

Page 2

---

## Page 3

T

parall

zoldlers

SECRE

11314650

NT. Do J. Brennan, Jr•

8/22/66

$. J. Papich

JOACHIM JOESTEN

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

On 8/19/66,

Central Inte ligence Agency

(CIA), advised thatl

received a letter

from the subject, postmarked Milan, Italy, on 8/13/66, which

read as follows:

"The final accounting with the Johnson gang is

Imminent•

Each of you who continues to partake in the actions

of the Johnson gang or their German officlals, the Gehlen gang,

or those who disrupt the plans of American patriots agalost

the usurper regime, will shortly pay with their lives. Be it

well understood, Greetings."

advised that this information has been

disseminated by CIA to the White House and Secret Service.

ACTION:

attontion of abode olomation a baing directed to the

Mc o Branigan

1

1 - Mx. Papich

SJP:rab

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORIMATION

• IN THIS DOCUMENT. 502/22/95

"ASSANITIZED

CLASSITED BY 5668 SLe/gee

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (O

657121 2/22/06

SHOES

NH 50953 DocId: 32319388 Page 3

---

