# 124-10163-10134

## Page 1

124-10163-10134

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

LDEN TUFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10163-10134

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3942

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF PLANS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/04/1964

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

JFK, ASSISTANCE, SUSPECT, RIDDERSTRALE, KARL-ERIK, ALBRECHT,

ADOLPHJAY, ABERG, CHARLOTTE, NAME CHECK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INCLUDES SEARCH SLIPS

NW 50953 DocId:32167657 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

6754

FAFPARL#

CIVIL AOZ.

1233

БА 1-11-8949

DAIZ

Per CIA letter

9/23

MEMORANDUM FOR:

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

BLa 6/281-77

OFC 1964

Da

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMAT

DECLASSIFICATION ANDZOR

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM

: Deputy Director for Plans JA

11/125

іх!

SUBJECT

Adolph Jay,

ALBRECHT

Classified

Declasshy on: OADR

=

Adolph Jay ALBRECHT, born 15 June 1926

an industrial advertising copywriter currently residing in

in New Jersey, is

Stockholm, Sweden.

The holder of U.S. passport No. D 294080,

issued 18 AprfT T963 at New York City, Subject served with the

United States Navy from about 1947 to

only two weeks, however.

1955 active duty forg

As of November 1963 Subject said.he

was employed by the Andersson and Lembke Advertising Agency

14

Luntmakargaten 95, Stockholm.

On 29 November 1963 Subject, of his own volition,

visited the American Embassy in Stockholm and asked to speak

with the embassy "security officer." He was interviewed by

girlfriend, Charlottel ABERG (Swedish citizen, born_ca. 1943)

15 196

told him that karl Hel ANDDERSTRALE (Swedish citizen,

born

35

24 September 1922),

white drunk on I5 November 1963, predicted

that within"

two weeks President KENNEDY would be assassinated

while on a trip among his own people. Following the assassination

Charlotte was upset and called ALBRECHT on 27 November 1963 to

inform him of RIDDERSTRALE's statement n

made while he was visiting

Charlotte and her mother on 15 November. \ Charlotte described

RIDDERSTRALE as normally quiet and refined. and one of her

mother's suitors.

43866L33V

According to Subject, RIDDERSTRALE, though

wealthy and a member of Swedish nobility, is a left winger and

strong supporter of Fidel CASTRO.

+62-109060-

-3942

3. Through Subject, arrangements were made" for

Charlotte

ABERG to be interviewed at the American Embassy on 4 December 1963.

Charlotte related substantially the same story as did Subject,

with minor contradictions.

She said RIDDERSTRALE's comments-

were made about ten days before the assassination and that he

had not given a two-week deadline; he merely said, "soon." 4

DISIH

She said she knew nothing about RIDDERSTRALE's background.

DEO 751904

Charlotte was advised to report the foregoing to Swedish

authorities.

Following an interview with'$wedish police officials

No Investigation Conducied by FBI C@t CAl

Pertinent to your inquiry.

This is the result of a re*. st for an

he JA Moradered

1965 cara iv: to ba

SECRET

NO BERNIEM CA

1H

50953

DoeId: 32167657

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECHET

He could not explain such an expression since he could not Seoret

remember having said anything like it.

he knew nothing

whatever beforehand about the murder of the President.

The files of this Agency contain no recorded identi-

fiable traces on ALBRECHT, ABERG, Or RIDDERSTRALE.

T. This office would appreciate receiving any pertinent

information your Bureau's files may contain on the Subject, cleared,

here possible, for passins to

early reply would be appreciatea.

8. The information contained in paragraphs 1 through 3,

above :

was given to the Legal Attache in London during early

December 1963.

CSCI-316/02509-64

-3-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32167657

Page 3

---

