# 124-10328-10030

## Page 1

124-10328-10030

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10328-10029

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

WMFO

HQ

[Restricted]

DATE: 09/17/1958

PAGES:

6

{ SUBJECTS :

JOHN SHIMON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC MEMO

v9.1

IT 50953

DocId: 32313355

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Belmont

Donahoe

Ilaison

mossburg

SAC,

to (105-4083)) (5)

October 2, 1958

Director, ras (205-208141 886S)

EX-138

AND INFORUACTON CONTATNED

REC- 72

WENZ IN IS UDOLICLIYZED BACEES

03 - FARAK DAJANE, 10So YS)

WITSAD SBORN ODENLEA

1/9/2 5y 54683e de

Reurlet 9-17-58.

Your attention is directed to

your file

100-23450

captioned

"Mion Pilos, IS - Co

report of sA

John B. Van Etten dated 5-3-51 at Washington, D. Co, in

that file reflects on page sit that Aichare lounsend

Fatton was employed by Carl Marsant in 1947,

that darzant was convicted and sentenced for denying

membership in the Communist Party.

reflects satton was subject of aniuestigation by

your office in 1956 for possession of obscene filma.

In view of derogatory information avallable regarding

Fatton, the Bureau does not feel he is suitable material

for development as an informant and authority a

therefore dented your office to investigate him as a

PsI for the purpose of posalbly Developing him as a double

agent in this matter.

interoteu of Isa sabbagh by another Covernment agendy

and results will be turniched you. (S)

EMM: cUg

straus

11391

Gover mena Romanoe to Belmont prepared by kiMel

9-30-58 Te same subj.

never.

M: 9-1048

wa21009-234

OC:

"1144

Tolson

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

¡Tamin

Trotter

Clayton

Line. Room's

Holloman -

Sullivan

IT 50953

83 0CT14 1958

MAIL. ROOM L

SECRET

DoCTA: 32313355

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"TANDÄRD FORM NO. GA

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBY (205-208146) SECRET

DATE: 9/17/58

FROM RUP

ASAC, WFO (105-4083) 5)

ATO INZORNASION CONTAINED

AURATN LE UUCLASSIFIED EXCEPS

SUBJECT:

OMAR FAROUK DAJANY (6)

IS- ISRAEL

Class

Doetsssily on: DAbR

Re report of SA MALCOLM P. CARR dated 8/22/58

Washington, D.C.,

which sets forth that on 6/10/58,

anonymous source advised that subject had in his possession

a rough map drawn on a scrap of paper showing directions to

20per was the telephone auda cL 6-3809.(5)

Aiso noted on this [5]

5648-544 mde

1/22/48

1576

CLASSIFICO BY 566&520.

/GaL

ASSI

9/23/97

25%

Annandale,

Virginia, telephone CL 6-38097S

On 9/8/58 the files of the Credit Bureau, Incorporated

(sage was shown as twenty-six and there were no prior employments

or additional addresses shown for PATTON. There was a notation

that his wife

had worked for the Civil Defense Administration m

1n17952

RICHARD (S

3

(S]Byron Roudabush Byron, Incorporated, that he had

caught PATTON,

who was employed by him, with an obscene film

PATTON was interviewed at that time by SA RO

ART ECS

KURTZMAN

and Inspector ROY E. BLICK, Metropolitan-Po

Department.

He advised that he had taken the film from the

(s)

desk of another employee, RICHARD OFFAR, without OFFAR's) knowing

it and said he took it only to run it for his own entertainment

-Bureau

_WO

(5)

RBK: sas

Memo Donahoeto

9-30-58

tah, yes

102458

REC- 72

005-20814

Belmont

LE HAS NO EECTION TO

25 SEP 18 1958 DECLASS SATYON AND/OR

•PELE

- CIA INFORMATION

SECRET

MISUBOCUMENT. EXCEPT ToN

BRACKETS ON pas 274

510/KS2 8-22-48 (J74))

HTH 50953 DoCTА:32313355

Page 3

---

## Page 4

WFO

(105-4083 (5)

SLCRET

PATTON volunteered that he had two more rolls of similar

film in his car, also obtained from OFFAR, and produced those

rolls of film.

An examination of all three rolls indicated

they were copies of well known editions of pornographic film.

It had been copied on film belonging to Byron, Incorporated. (S)

OFFAR was also interviewed at that time and said he

had obtained the films from EDDIE REYNOLDS, a former employee

who was then in Tennessee.

The films were

confiscated by

Inspector BLICK and no further action taken. (S)

It is noted that Byron, Incorporated, has made several

training films for the FBI and has clearance for similar work

for the Armed Forces. S).

WFO indices also indicate that WF 942-S* advised on

12/21/57 that JOAN (LNU) (possibly JOAN SABBAGH, former wife of

ISA SABBAGH who has, for some time, resided with MOHAMED HABHIB,

WFO 105-19871 Bufile 105-54127), called SHIRLEY (LNU) at CL 6-

• 3809, asking directions to her home.

She was told the address

was

2008 Bradiord Drive, and they discussed whether something

JOAN was to pick up would fit in her cardS

WFO indices reflect nothing additional which can be

identified with RICHARD T. PATTON Or his wife SHIRLEY (S)

On 9/9/58 SA KURTZMAN ascertained from Mrs. ADRIAN

BORNEMAN, Secretary to BYRON ROUDABUSH, that PATTON is still

employed

at Byron, Incorporated, as a sound technician, is

considered loyal,

for the classified work done there. S.

a 200d employee and has security clearance

(S) PATTON was interviewed at Byron,

Incorporated, on

9/10/58 by SAs RICHARD B. KELLOGG and HOWARD FLETCHER, Jr.

He said around 1951 he assisted in the making of a film for Diet"

Byron,

Incorporated, for the

Arabian American Oil Company.

At that time he became acquainted with ISA SABBAGH who narrated

the film. PATTON said SABBAGH was theh employed by VOA and is

now an assistant to the American Ambassador to Saudi arabia

(It's noted that SABBAGH is presentry employed with UsTAana"

is assigned to the American Embassy in Saudi Arabia.,

KOALANY

arcasual

SEESH

social action to are the and tree seen true oF or-

SABBAGH home. He said he believed that at the time he met

DAJANY, DAJANY was

still employed at the Jordantan Embassy Nil

a 2 in i

Sie A

NH 50953 DocId: 32313355 Page 4

---

## Page 5

wro 105-4083 (S)

LES IS SABBAGH SNA

shortly thereaiter,

took employnent with the (International

He said on that occasion DAJANY prevaileds.

on frim to take two _gallons of (corn oilto a friend of DAJANY'CS.

medicinal purposes.

seen DAJANY since that time.

He said he did deliver the oil but has not (5}

mentioned party at DAdAY'S apartment, PATTON said he could Di, C

recall no names but recalled that an inspector ay DOliC;

captain from the MPD (possibly Captain JOSEPH WY SHIMON) was

Nashington;

with DAJANY is FENTON MORAN, a writer and lecturer from LS.

First not MORAN housh SABBATES

weeks ago. He said he also

PATTON said he knows DAJANY works at the InternationalS.

ank but knows nothing more about DAJANY's)job and has never (S.

discussed with DAJANY politics, the Middle East, or the world (SJ

He said he knows nothing of DAJANY's socialactivities

and nothing about his wife except that she works for af model(S

He said he considers DAJANY a man of good character, C5

knows nothing of a derogatory naturé concerning his morals,

and has seen nothing to indicate that DAJANY might be engaging S|"

in illegal or unethical activities

PATTON said he has a

"secret" clearance by the us ls

Navy but

he does not believe DAJANY knows that, and DAJANY has (S.

never asked him about his job.

He volunteered

he would be more

than glad to cooperate with the FBI in any manner possible if

(DAJANY} is engaged in operations not in the best interests of the (5]

United States.

He added it would not be unusual if he were to

call (DAJANY for a drink or invite him to his home. S

PATTON indicated that his wife is employed by thel S

National Plumbing Association in Washington, D.C. He also(S)

- 3.0:

NH 50953 DocId: 32313355 Page 5

---

## Page 6

WIO (105-4083](5)

SECRET

indicated he has made several trips to the widdle fast and other

countries in his work for Byron, Incorporated. (

UACB, WFO contemplates conducting additional back-

ground investigation concerning PATTON.

On completion of the

inquiry, WFO will consider requesting PATTON to intensify his

association with DAJANY in an effort to learn something

of his

activities. PATTON will also be considered as a possible

intermediary

n

the event such a person can be utilized in

this matter

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU

" the evont the Bureau be in agreemont with the

contemplated steps set forth above, it is requested

that the Bureau. throuch Liaison. make inauirvl

(2)

It is also requested that the Bureau request the

Department of State to have ISA SABBAGH interviewed

concerning DAJANY.. It is noted that PATTON

a "falling out" after SABBAGH's wife left him.

PATTON believed the reason was that SABBAGH felt

that Mr. and Mrs. DAJANY took JOAN SABBAGH's side

and may have

been

instrumental in her decision

to leave hims

SECRET

- 4 =

NH 50953 DocId: 32313355 Page 6

---

## Page 7

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10328-10030

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO :

HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 08/20/1959

PAGES:

25

• SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH SHIMON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

ITT 50953

DocId: 32313356

Page 1

---

## Page 8

Form

D'363" (Re755-12-55)

oin

EPORTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REVERSE

CLEA

SIFICATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

WASHINGTON FIELD

CHANGED

OWAR

FAROUK

DAJANY,

Omar Hassen Sidgi Dajany

DATE

AUG 2 0 1959

REPORT MADE BY

aka

415)

MALCOLM P. CARR

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD ST

6/10-8/1/59

SECRETE BY

AJC

Su A141

Class

5P6

FRomtuto

INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

O ANY STATES

(ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATION)

10/30158

the title o1 this investigation is being changed to

out in State Department communication dated /2-18-59 6/5

REFERENCE

Report of SA MALCOLM P. CARR, dated 6-19-59.

BAlet, dated

7-2-59.

NYlet, dated 7-22-59.

Wroairtels, dated 7-24-59, 7:29-59

wand

8-1-59.

Buairtel, dated 7-31-59.

COPICS MADE

CụC / 5G

6644.20

ALLINN

ORMATION CORTAINED

MERENNIS UETASLIFIED

FOk imon (sub)le

EXCEPT WHERE UNDEA

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA CHIG

THO BY

! ASCA RE Y: 28•780

REQUEST

OTHERWISE

(SEE BUTILE

62-117290);

regard to the bank accounts of subject and

Mrs. [DAJANY

the

following information is set out:

Classified by L54eSSDPlm

setassity om: OADi

Declassify on:

APPROVED

OPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

N.CHARG

surea (105-20814)15

EITE IN SPACES BELOW 150/

3-New York

(105-30008)/ (RM)

1105- 20414+

137 MCT - 5

(1+105-1965619

18 AUG

CORES DESTROYED

3-Washington Field

{55K) 9/23197

(105-4083)(5)

201959 House (Hause2 REC: 34

But i Bo

CLASSIAIED BY 5668.500/GCL

Guest

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (U(6):

TRAB CIA NEST

APPROPR

AND AN

JENCIES

ACES

DEO. REC'D

DATE FORW

9-1-59

OPERTY OF FBI.

HOW FORMO-IR, ON 0-1, 06.0, 014

14V

This rep is loaned to you by tho FBli and neither it hor its contents aro to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

IT 50953

DoCT: 32313356

Page 2

---

## Page 9

WrO

(105-4083)

Trust

SECRET G

Mr. THADDEUS C. COX, Vice President, Union

Company, Washington, D.

C., (name to be concealed 1f

Information disseminated)

made available to SA ROBErT E.

TORRENCE, on 7-3-59, the following information from the

account of Nrs. DAJANY at the Union Trust Company: GAlAn(S)

Balance as of 6-26-59

$454.31

Deposits

34.64

Total

3488.95

Withdrawals

$488.95

6(4161

Balance as of 7-3-59

.00

Mr. COX Is the proper person to whom a subpoena

should be directed in the event these records are to be

subprenaed. There were no checks of interest in the above

account and since data above does not materially add to the

Investigation It is not included in the body of the report. *(alS)

On 6-26-59, Mx. JOHN C. MCCORMACK (name to be

concealed 1f utilized) Vice President, Risgs National

Bank, made available to SA TORRENCE the following information

From Riggs National Bank concerning account of subject:S

Balance as of 5-20-59

$ 144.89

Deposits

2112.08

Total

$2256.97

Withdrawals

2205. 55

Balance as of 6-26-59

$ 01.44

Mr. MCCORMACK is the proper perso.: to whom to issue

a subpoena.

The account falled to reveal any checks o1

interest, the pattern being numerous checks being cashed

+ Internationad Bank for Reconstruction and Developmen

nd McReynolds Liquor Store. ClUNC

On 7-20-59, Mr. McCORMACK made available to

SA TORRENCE the following from subject's

account: K/(8)

Balance as of 6-26-59

51.42

Deposits

1267•95

Total

$1319.37

Withdrawals

1115.33

(7) 286)

Balance as of 7-20-59

$ 204.04

-A-/

COVER PAGE

* SECRETIA)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 3

---

## Page 10

& NEO [105-1083]

* SECRE

Again the pattern was the numerous checks being

cashed at the

and Liquor. CaS

International Bank and Cheynolds Pharmacy

It is to be noted that these records reflected a

check dated 7-14-59, was made payable to the St. Moritz

Hotel of New York City In the amount of $29.28. It should

be noted too, that in records of the subject's new account

at the Union Trust Company there is a check dated 7-13-59,

the st. Moritz Hotel In the amount of Ility

In regard to the serial numbers of currency

being deposited by the subject at Riggs National Bank,

a number of serial numbers of subject's deposits have

obtained and have been made a part of the instant file.

LAs of 6-30-59, however, this practice has been discontinued

Kinasmuch as New York has disclosed that payments to DAJANY

were being made by bank money orders and in some cases from

the Israell United Nations accounty In the event a comparison

of currency is desired in the future, this procedure can be

accomplished from the information already in the f1le. (la(5)

Bureau attention 1s directed to letter from

Office of Security, Department of State, dated 6-25-59,

attaching the report of Agent E. H. WIDDIFIELD of the

State Department, dated 6-13-59.

It was indicated that a

photograph of DAJANY had been exhibited to DONALD I. SNOOK

of Tripoli (no date). SNOOK was said to positively have

identified the subject as being the person he had furnished

information on previously.

In this regard, Office of

Security reports of WIDDIFIELD, dated 29-59, and 4-10-59,

DAJANY has been continuously

residing in the U. S. since 1951. Although SNOOK identified

a photograph of subject, he did not specifically indicate

with whom subject was identical. It appears that he does

13 not tatue included la the boy at be report te

is not being included in the body of the report.

Spot fisurs conducted by SA CARE on 7/15,29,

and 30,

1959, In the vicinity of the International Bank

and the Roger Smith Hotel Iailed to disclose whereabouts

of subject.

On each instancesubject's car was parked in

the lot normally

used by hit, however the subject was not

observed.

COVER PACES * C2

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356

Page 4

---

## Page 11

ÉNSO 205-10837 46(5)

who have not been interviewed to date, it is now felt

Bogarding the women contacted by the subject, SECRET

since the interview with the subject,

an interview with

INGRID RICHTER and ANNA WALDRON Is no longer necessary•

The purpose of these contacts is obvious since the

Interview of subject. ()Y(S)

For information of the Bureau, on 8-1-59, subject,

without prior contact by FO, was approached at his apartment

where he was requested to come to FO for the purposes of

interview and gaining his assistance.

his pajamas, felt the interview could be done at the br

apartment, however since MrS:ADAJANY was in the bedroom,

located just off the living room, subject was advised

that an interview did not appear to be possible under

such circumstances.

Subject was reluctant to come to the

office because of numerous things he had to do preparing

for his trip on 8-5-59.

He suggested a booth in the

Washington Circle Drug Store with which he was familiar

D

and arrangements were made for him to meet Agents there

in ten minutes.

A portion of the interview was conducted

in complete privacy at the drugstore for approximately

thirty-five minutes and at which point it was made

obvious to the subject that he must look at photographs

perso he called MOIRAl, (ph) and person belleved to

DAVID/AUTA

- Thereafter,

the intervlew was conducted

ORDAN

Subject indicated

that he would keep ils cortact

with interviewing Agents in complete confidence and would

report promptly any further contacts made to him by persons

he belleved to be intelligence operators.

DAJANY's accounts

of his contacts/Cith other than known Israeli Intelligence LA

operators were obviously true however his account of

contacts with MOURAD (MEDAN) 'and ZUTA were just as false

and fabricated. Repeated emphasis on

the obvious untruths

on his part merely brought more

denials

It appears

subject is a pathological liar.

) S)

For the above reasons,

does not recommend

further contact with the subject

for the purpose of

developing him as a double agent

or a source of information.

< COVER PAGE

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 5

---

## Page 12

* SCORSIG

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

Location of Original Information

T-1 1s

WE 1016-5*J(5)

WF T-2 16

THADDEUS C. COX,

Vice President,

Union Trust Company,

Washington, D. C.

NY T-1 1s

Mrs. GLADYS RAYMOND,

Records Unit,

Chemical Corn Exchange

Bank, Two Broadway,

New York City

WF T

is

(6)

CSHE

855-S

Instant report, Page 7

105-4083, Serial 274, Pages 8 and 15.

234-560 Sub A MAJES

Careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities

concealed. ()(U)

of the sources must be

LEADS

0/14

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY

(SJ04-59, 1t being noted that two checks were

given

"to that hotel by DAJANY in the amounts (SJ

of $29.28 and $50.00, respectively. My

2.

If subject was a guest there, will determine

1f he was in contact

with known Israelt

intelligence

agents

COVER PAGE

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 6

---

## Page 13

wrO [105-4083

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

SECRET 7(814

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

1.

Will continue to monitor bank accounts o

subject at Riggs and Union Trust Company

Will place stop notice with INS to be

advised

of subject's return to the U. s. Qui

3.

Will consider an interview with Capt.

SHIMON, MPD, to ascertain circumstances oi

his association with the subject.

Determinox fr

if subject has requested SHIMON to

check fOr

a

"tap" on subject's telephone.

(N.)

Win ascertain from buIN A. StRONG,

2041[s]

S. 138

North Utah st., Arlington, Va.

circumstances

of his meeting with subject. &l

5

It State Department will, through contact L>

vith the israeli Desk Officer, attempt to CS"

Drain more intormation concerning account

f the Custodian of Enemy Propertyxin CS.

IsraeDto determine in fact if subject and

his family are receiving money from

of property owned by subject.

pantal

The report is being classified "Secret" in view

of the information concerning the funds of the account of the

Israeli delegation to the United Nations, Account One, known CL

to be used for intelligence payments. In event of down (5J

grading, report

and evaluation menc

'Contidential" since it reveals FB. Investigation of ai

employee of an international organization

Report is CS_

additionally classified "Confidential" since it tends to

reveal FBI investigation of foreign diplomatic officials] (S

and since data reported by WF T-1, WF T-2, and Wr T-3,

could reasonably result in identification of informants

of continuing value and compromise future effectiveness

thereof.

-E-

COVER PAGE

@ SECREI (E)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356

Page 7

---

## Page 14

•TD-30% (Rey. 8-22-88)

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CLASSIFIED BY 5168 500/6C

Copy t0:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_6)(b)

(581234/23197

Report of:

Dates

MALCOLM P. CARR

Office:

+4553-95m

Destassily on: OADit

Washington, D. C.

• AUG 2 0 1509

File Number:

Washington Field 105-4083

Bureau (105-208143(5)

THe LE INFORVATION CONTAINED

HEREIN !S UNCLASSIP

OMAR

FAROUK DAJANY P

ESCEPT WHERE SHOAN

1156550p/at

OTHERWISE

Castor

Decloses

4 243,957

Classified is 32 la

Declassi

end. OADR

Characten:

INTERNAL SECURITY _ ISRAEL

(ACCOUNTING INVESTICATIONS

245-11

Synopals:

KLARA RAFTERY,

unemployed, met subject on one (5)

occasion only

Her

name and phone number were:

furnished subject by former Egyptian)student, and(S

meetings

merely social

Registrant of Maryland

license plates for Jaguar and Plymouth Station

wagon obtained.

Information furnished by ISA CSJ

SABBAGH, USTA employee, in February, 1959,

CLASSIDED

DEQLISSIFY

revealed he was social

acquaintance of subject

Information received subject to depart 8-5-59 for L

[tal-Jenroute to (ferusalem, Jordan via ship on CS

"home leave" granted by (International Bank. CSJ

Subject, interviewed 8-1,59, stated contacts withs

WASHINGTON, DA mod thE Capt

women purely social and work never discussed.

Many of then did not know his nameS/Subject

claimed that Capt. JOSEPH SHIMON, of MPD was

personal friend whom he consulted on a number of

INITIALSDOB

State

75

occasions for assistance.

He told SHIMON he

felt his (DAJANY's) phone was "tapped! and was

of opinion that a "tap" may have been found

because friendship with SHIMON not as friendly

-205

FOI/PA #.

CIVIL ACR

21/8

2. 0. #

DATE

subject shown photographs

Of WEDAN and ZUTA which he identified as (BENNIS

OURAD JOT MURAL ph) and person introduced to subjectS

6у (MOURAD respectively. He met MOURAD) in (Jerusalem C

In 1946 and 1947 and approximately three years ago,

Government but thought him to be a student at a

university in New York City.

Contacts with MOURAD)(S]

yere for the purpose of assisting latter with a

thesis by MOURAD on economics.

Man introduced

This dosemand contains meshe escamendelions nor cachure of any lind. i le the proper a the l, and i a des to yot deter,

It and /or lis contents ore not to be distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32313356

Page 8

---

## Page 15

WFO

105-4083

& SECRETE

Chim by MOURAD was believed by subject to be a

student and from Baltimore, Maryland, whom he

saw only twice.

Subject never received money

from either individual and never received money

from any Israeli at any time.

He never discussed

with them any information which could conceivably

be of intelligence value to Israelis. Subject

stated he could not tell the true story until

after he returned from his trip where he could

get permission of his family in Lebanon. He

said it would

be a story which "will

make you

laugh."*/USS)

DETAILS:

AT WASHINGTON, D. C. 3Q (U)

Information was

previously furnished which disclosed

that Mrs. KLARA RAFTERY, 1219 North Taft Street, Arlington,

Virginia, had been observed in the company of DAJANY on May 21,

1959. The purpose of the contact was unknown. fl

On June 10, 1959, Mrs. KLARA RAFTERY, Apartment Two,

1219 North Taft Street, Arlington, Virginia, was interviewed

by SAs MALCOLM P. CARR

and DONALD HOETING.

She advised she

did not know an OMAR DAJANY, however, when she had an opportunity

to see a photograph of subject she recalled that she had seen

DAJANY on one occasion only.

Mrs. RAFTERY advised that

approximately three weeks ago she received a telephone call dou

from an individual who said that one ADFL,

Whom she understoo

D.e.

was an Egyptian student, had furnished to the caller RAFTERY's

name and phone number.

The caller desired to see and talk

with her.

A meeting was agreeable with Mrs. RAFTERY and

arrangements were made for the caller to pick her up at 2:00 ChRk/

p.m. A short while after she received another call from thi

same individual who reported that he had an appointment and

would be a bit late.

The man, whom she knows now as DAJANY

after seeing a photograph, picked her up in his personally

EGYPT

owned car from which point they went to the hot shoppe at

Roslyn, Virginia,

and

on finding it closed crossed the street

to a drugstore.

She advised that they were together approximately

thirty minutes during which time they spoke about current

events and the fact that she had no girl friends.

DAJANY

told her he had lots of girls to whom

he would like to

introduce RAFTERY. She stated

was

a very pleasant meeting

with DAJANY but purely social.(f

G) И

& SECRETS

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 9

---

## Page 16

WFO

[105-4083

DAJANY

she has not seen him since that time nor

has he called

her. RAFTERY felt that she must not have impressed DAJANY

because of his failure to contact her again.

CUT(S)

In connection with ADEL, RAFTERY referred to an

address book and stated the name was spelled ABDEL I. GARHI,

whom she understood was an Egyptian student of economics in

some school in the Washington, D. C. area.

She had met

GARHI at the Omar Khayyam Restaurant, however she has not

seen this individual for a couple of years.

RAFTERY recalled

that DAJANY told her that ADEL had returned to Egypt but

did not advise her at what time he had left the country.

C814(5)

On November 28, 1958, WF T-l advised that one

ADEL GARHI was known to Colonel AHNED KAMAL, Military Attache

at the Embassy of the United Arab Republic (UAR).

informant said that Colonel KAMAL had requested Doctor

HUSSEIN SELIM the Minister it the UAR, provide a Job for

GARHI who was

an Egyptian student studying in Washington

and whose financial condition was quite bad. It appeared

that the Egyptian Government had ceased payments for

GARHI's scholarship.

Doctor SELIM was to make an attempt

to assist GARHI.(S)

Previous investigation in this matter has

revealed that on May 19, 1959, DAJANY met an unidentified

girl at 25th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W. The

girl was

Maryland license plates KD90-22. *

tanding beal de a fray Jaguar automobile bearing

It is also to be noted that on May 23, 1959,

investigation disclosed subject met an unidentified girl

at the Hot Shoppe, lst and Washington Streets, Alexandria,

Virginia. This girl was observed to drive a cream colored

BORN 6-91-93

Baltimore,

Maryland, was advised by Miss BERNICE WOODS, Clerk,

Department of Motor Vehicles,

that Maryland license JJ13-56

ThiS was registered to MARK EUGENE WALDRON and his wife,

Prince Georges County Washington.P.

This license

(003)

Issued to a 1959 Plymouth Suburban station wagon. SlY

$ -3-781"

8087.25

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356

Page 10

---

## Page 17

WFO

(105-4083 (5)

PRESIDENT AND KIRT

Miss WOODS also reported that Maryland License

KD90-22 was issued to JUSTIN PUNKHOUSER, 901 POlK Avenue

Hagers cown a

Maryland, for a 1959 Jaguar roadster.

No operators license could be located for

FUNKHOUSER, however ANNA CHASZER was issued operators

license A680994, in which she is described as white,

female, five feet seven inches, one hundred and forty

pounds, born August 27, 1925.

Her husband, MARK EUGENE

WALDRON, issued operators license A553683, was described

as white, male, five feet eleven inches,

oighty-live pounds, boxa 33 84 1923. i spared and

In connection with JUSTIN, FUNKHOUSER, on July 15,

1959, IC ARTHUR EDWARD WARNER caused a search to be made oi

the records of the Credit Bureau, Incorporated, Washington,

D. C.

These records contain a credit report dated February 13,

1959, at Hagerstown, Maryland. His address was listed as

Longmeadow, Apartment 7C, Hagerstown,

Maryland. His

employment was listed as

president and part owner of the

Victor Products Company, Hagerstown, Maryland. It was

indicated that he was separated from his wife, RUTH C.

pertinent to this recatis cont. Me additional laforuation

On July 15, 1959, IC WARNER was made available

a credit report dated

November 13, 1956, concerning

MARK WALDRON, whose wife was listed as ANNA WALDRON,

6910 Brinkley Road, S. E.

His employment was listed

with the Mount Vernon

Publishing Company, where he had

been employed as a printer for fourteen years.

His wife's

employment was listed as secretary at Riggs National Bank,

15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., as a secretary for the

past thirteen years. These records

contained no additional

pertinent information concerning ANNA Or MARK WALDRON-(SIG

On July 16, 1959, SE JOSEPH C. CREEDEN caused a

check to be made of the records of the Metropolitan Police

Department (MPD). These records contained no records of

JUSTIN FUNKHOUSER OI MARK Or ANNA WALDRON; at all times

an indefinite number of unidentified

cords are out of

file and not available for review.

* SECRET 7

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 11

---

## Page 18

WFO

105-4083

Previous investigation in this matter has revealed

that in June,

1958, Information was furnished

indicating that the subject was acquainted with In SABBAGh

an employee

of the united states Information Agency

(USIA)

abroad.

LEBANON

- ARABIA

On February

"27, 1959, the

Office of Security,

Department of State, made available a report dated

February 18, 1959, which disclosed that ISA SABBAGH was

Interviewed at Jiáda, Saudi Arabia, concerning DASANY BA)

SABBAGH stated he is not acquainted with

OMAR FAROUK DAJANY bat is acquainted with OMAR HASSEN

SIDGI DAJANY, approximately thirty-four years of age,

who is employed by the World Bank, Washington, D. C.

SABBAGH stated DAJANY is married to an American girl

named BETTY who is employed by the United States Government

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY is fair

da Washington Light brown ayes, brown halt, and le

complexioned,

Jordaniàn.

He attended American University in Beirut,

Lebanon, and has a Ph.D fron a Washington, D. C. university

In 1957. SABBAGH stated he has been well acquainted with

DAJANY since 1954.

SABBAGH said DAJANY 1s socially charming,

has a ready wit, and fancies himself as a social butterfly.

In 1957, DAJANY's wife asked for a divorce, but this did not

matetialize The two, according to SABBAGH, have been reconciled.

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY would often gloat about

his friendship with the late King ABDULLAH of Jordan and the

present King, HUSSEIN. He said DAJANY had been second in

command at the Jordanian Embassy in Washington, D. C. up to

1953, when he resigned to Join the World Bank.

At the time

of DAJANY's resignation, there was cause for some gossip with

some saying he was discharged but DAJANY denied this saying

that it was proposed to recall him to Jordan.

SABBAGH said

that DAJANY reported that he refused because he was planning

on furthering his education in Washington and therefore resigned.

SABBAGH sald that DAJANY expresses fondness for the United

States because of DAJANY's social acceptabillty, his American

friends, and comforts of the United States.

SABBAGH said

DAJANY had been critical of policies of the United States

In the Near East,

especially in connection with the

Palestine question, but je was no less critical of the

• Arab

policies at the time of the Palestine issue. SABBAGH

considered DAJANY the reserve Arab nationalist whose American

training appeared to make him less vitriolic than many of

his nation.

He is reported to admire NASSER (President of

the

(c)

-5-

SECEST

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 12

---

## Page 19

WFO

(105-4083

SABBAGH stated that DAJANY has not a few "Jewish"

friends in the United States and is not "anti-Jewish" as such.

DAJANY's father, HASSAN SIDGI DAJANY, was a prominent

Palestinian who was assassinated shortly after the war, accused

of being a British "stooge".

DAJANY, according to SABBAGH,

told him that the American Department of State at the time

suspected him of pro-Soviet leanings and that DAJANY denied

the charge that he had been observed at some date visiting

the Soviet Legation in Beirut.

DAJANY is also conscious of

having been seen with his wife attending social functions

at the Soviet Embassy, however, DAJANY claims his name would

still be on the register of the Soviet Embassy from the days

when he was an officer of the Jordanian Embassy. SABBAGH said

that although he could not say that DAJANY was

actually loyal

to the United States "from a legalistic view point, (indeed his

not being a citizen of the United States saved him from such

expected loyalty) he would say that he would not harm the

United States' interests for the sake of the Soviets.

Insofar

as he is a staunch Arab first, he might harm the United States'

interests in a negative way, that is, by not leaning over

backwards to advance such

interests if he thought they conflicted

with the Arab interests."

(SAT) ()

DAJANY was said to be "well connected" in Washington

and New dork, with one of his friends of long standing, Doctor

RALPH, BUNCHE of the United Nations®

(391) €)

On June 25, 1959, the Office of Security, Department

of State, reported that SABBAGH had been shown a photograph

of the subject of this investigation and that SABBAGH identified

OMAR HASSEN SIDGI DAJANY

as being identical with the subject of

this investigation.

On May 20, 1959, NY T-I made available a personal

money order issued by the

branch of the Chemical Corn

Exchange Bank at which an account entitled "Delegation of

Israel to the United States, Account Number One" is maintained.

One money order was as follows:

+=6-79

1278)

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 13

---

## Page 20

WFO

05-4083

Issue

Date

Payee

Money Order No.

Amount

Maker

Address

Endorsement

5-6-59

* SECRET

International Bank for

Reconstruction

and Development.

A139298

$200.00

OMAR DAJANY

2514 K St., N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

OMAR DATANY, stamped for deposit

to the credit of the International

Bank for Reconstruction and Development

Account B.

American Security and Trust Company,

Washington, D. C., 5-14-59.

On June 15, 1959, NY T-1 made available the following

money order:

Bank cleared or

deposited

Issue Date

Payee

5 - 20-59

International Bank for Reconstruction

and Development.

Money Order No.

Amount

Maker

Address

A139500

$200.00

OMAR DAJANY

2514 K St., N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

Endorsement

OMAR DAJANY, stamped for deposit

to the credit of the International

Bank for Reconstruction and Development

Account B.

Bank cleared or

American Security and Trust Company,

deposited

Washington, D. C., 5-28-59.

On July 17, 1959, WT T-2 made available information

from a local Washington, D. C. bank disclosing that Mrs. DAJANY

had closed her account at the bank and that a new account in the

name of OMAR DAJANY, 2514 K Street, had been opened on June 30,

1959, in the amount of $805.50.

to July 17, 1959, DAJANY made withdrawals of $793.38,

as of July 17, 1959, belng $12.12.. It is to be noted from this

above account

that on July 13, 1959, DAJANY made a check payable

to the St. Moritz Hotel, New York City, in the amount of $50.00.

It is also to be noted

that the new account was started with a

deposit made from the "proceedinge

a loan", the details of

which have not been determined.&

These above records cannot be made public without the

issuance of a subpoena duces

connection with data

reported by NY T-1 and VF T-2.

-7-

* SECRETA

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356

Page 14

---

## Page 21

WEO [105-4083

& SECRETA

1959, MrS. KAY WHALEN, formerly the manager

os the apartment awelling in which the subiect presently resides,

advised that Mrs. DAJANY had reported to her on that date that

they were departing the United States for Paris, France, on

August 5, 1959, via the "SS Liberte" for three months' leave.

On July 29, 1959, WF T-3 advised that DAJANY will depart

from the United States at New York City on the "SS Liberte" on

August 5, 1959, for Italy enroute to Jerusalem (Jordan) on a

trip, which will be in connection with "home leave" granted by

the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

DAJANY will accompany the subject. DAJANY is scheduled to leave

Cherbourg,

last week in October, 1959, to return to the United States. ()

FE22630

Further information

concerning the itinerary of the

subject is not knows to we I-3. (6)

*SECKELZ)

ATHT

50953

DonTd: 32313356

Page

15

---

## Page 22

| NO. 60

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SAC, WEO (105-1083) J51

DATE: 8-10-59

SECRE

FROM:

SA MALCOLM P. CARR

OMAR FAROUK DAJANY, aka

Omar

Hassen Sidgi Dajany

LENTAL SUKITE - SNARLE

(S)

on August 1, 1959, DAJANY was interviewed by (5

CARR and HAROLD RUBENSTEIN prior to which DAJANY <SJ

was advised that statements made by him were voluntary on his

part and that he was not being compelled to make any statements.

He was advised that he had the rigat of counsel and that apy de

statements made by him could be used against him in court.

In regard to his contacts with United States Government

employees, DAJANY furnished the following information:

ROSLYN BE SALUST (SO

EMPLOYED BY THE GENERAL

D.C.

"SERVICES

ADMINISTRATION. (GSA)

DAJANY said he has known ROSLYN SALUS for two or threeC

years, seeing ber first at cheynolds, l8th and

He stated he is socially acquainted only with MrS. (SALUS but would CS,

like to know her better.

He said he has found her remote and cool

to him and that at no time has he discussed with her her employment.

employed In the building at 18th and F Streets,

of Mrs. SALUS has been gained from seeing her at McReynolds

and talking tith her

over a sandwich and a"coke.

MISS. BARBARA BEA ALEXANDER S

EMPLOYED BY TELE UNITED STATES

NAVY, DEPARTMENT

Subject has known (ALEXANDER] for several years having (S)

first met her at (2514 street,

N.

We 9.

where both resided for aCS)

ubile. Hdicharasterizedher as a

"nice kid" and one from whom he

gets great pleasure in being with.

He said he sees her for lunch, and

has taken her to the horse races with him inasmuch

as she shares

his joys and his sorrows.

He has never discussed'her work with

her at any time and aside from her

working at the Navy Department,

he has no idea what

t she does.

VICKIE SIMS- (5)

EMPLOYED BY

HEALTH,

EDUCATION,

AND WELFARE

DAJANY has met her on two

occasions only and

know where she is

has her phone number.

period of time.

seen or talked to her for along

SNC

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356

Page 16

---

## Page 23

WFO

[105-4083

5)

SECRET -

ISA SABBAGH,

EMPLOYED BY THE UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA)

1959, at which time the subject was visiting

in connection

with

a trip made on business for the International Bank.

According to DAJANY, SABBAGH told bim that he was an Assistant

to the American Ambassador

to Saudi Arabia, however Dadan

questioned the title since DAJANY has never heard of such a

position.

He considers SABBAGH and his wife, JOAN as purely

social acquaintances although at one time in 1954 he teamed

up with SABBAGH in making a broadcast to the Middle East for

the benefit of the International Bank and the Voice of America

(VOA) • DAJANY admires SABBAGH for his knowledge of the Arabic,

language but has found him tiring and uninteresting since

SABBAGH is always nagging, is dissatisfied with his promotiors,

and is dissatisfied with the world in general.

He said he doss

not correspond with SABBAGH a.

Longer and is

not acquainted

with SABBAGH's assignment. O

DONALD L. SNOOK

EMPLOYED BY USTA ABROAD

DAJANY believes that he has met SNOOK once only.

He said he seems to recall that ISA SABBAGH, on going abroad,

left his car with DAJANY and told DAJANY that in the event

SNOOK asked to use the car the request should be granted.

DAJANY believes that SNOOK had called him and had taken the

car.

He can recall

no further conversation with SNOOK other

than the above. CACHS

Regarding other persons with whom DAJANY has been

known to be in contact

the following information

prefously, the subject furnished

Mr. GEORCE BARNES®

DAJANY stated that he and BARNES have been close

personal friend.

since

:350, having first met him in

Jerusalem, Jordan, where BARNES was associated with the International

Truce Organization.

He said BARNES later went with the

Unitec Nations Security Council and then to the International

Co-operation Administration, and is

now associated with Kenmore

Associates, a public relations firm

having offices In Washington

and New York.

DAJANY said that

his

friendship with BARNES

continues on a social basis.

x-10-*

- 0ie/4

E SECRETI

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 17

---

## Page 24

WFO (105-4083

AMA MALORON TENSI

SECRET

DAJANY did not know WALDRON by name but recalled

that he had met someone with a station wagon and advised that

this, like all of his oth

paraly social reasoas. fl

contacts with women, have been for

RUTH C. FUNKHOUSER

elleved to bo the driver of a gray demar vital

Maryland License K090-22.

DAJANY advised that he did not know RUTH FUNKHOUSER

but is acquainted with INGRID RICHTER who, until recently,

resided at the Washington Circle Apartments, 2430 Pennsylvania

Avenue, N. W., and who drives a gray Jaguar. He explained

that this automobile was given to RICHTER by JUSTIN FUNKHOUSER

whom he does not know personally.

He advised that Mrs. DAJANY

had met Miss RICHTER and had told her about the possibility of

employment at the Gaslight Club as a waitress. RICHTER took

the job there but gave it up shortly thereafter because she

was not allowed to date patrons of the club. Her employment

is not known at present by DAJANY.

He explained bis association

with her is purely social and for

love

of beautiful women. (

CATHERINE WRIGHT,

3516 Clay Place, N. E.

CLARE HAWKINS,

1700 U Street, N. W.

HELEN SMITH

814 Division Avenue, N. E.

DAJANY claimed that he did not know the above girls

by their surname but recalls he knew

of some "Negro girls"

with given names as above. le stated that he met these girls

and others through DIDIER RAGUENET, formerly Third secretary

at the French Embassy, whom DAJANY stated "was fond of Negro

women" & DAJANY said he knew them socially but saw them

infrequently and the purpose being to satisfy his sexual desires.

In regard to girle in genaral, DAJANY said some of the

girls he meets he knows by their given name or their

surname;

on occasions, however, many of them are not known to him at

all

by name.

He summed up his association with

women by saying that

women were his only weakness, that he loved

beautiful women and

abhorred ugly ones. He said he has always

will always do it until the day he dies.

after" Women and

5-11-*

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 18

---

## Page 25

WFO

105-4033

CHARLES M.

OWNER OF

DESERTINA RESTAUBANT SIO

Loc,

DAJANY had known SAAH a number of years and considers

him a personal friend. DAJANY said SAAH no longer runs the

Desert Inn but operates the Iron Gate Inn; is belleved to also

have some interest in another women's apparel shop.

DAJANY

advised he has borrowed money from SAAH on numerous occasions

but to date he is no longer indebted to him.

He said that

SAAH has never requested that he furnish any information,

neither has he spoken with or furnished to SAAH Information

which could be construed to have any intelligence value.

AZIZ ALLOUNI

FIRST SECRSTARY

UNTTED ARAB REPUBLIC (UAR)

DAJANY reported no social contact with ALLOUNI aside

from seeing him at diplomatic functions in Washington. DAJANY

said ALLOUNI is not interested in other women. They have no

common interest,

and for that reason he does nor consider him

a close friendS

Doctor ABDEL RAQUE ABU/

/ALAM

SOCTAL

AND

LABOR ATTACHE

(WAR).

DAJANY described him as an Egyptian whom he knows

quite well, both having attended American University in

Washington together.

DAJANY has helped ALAM in the use of

the English language in a thesis which ALAM had been preparing.

emergency, DAJANY had spent part of the money.

ALAM insisted

on the return of the money sooner

• than DAJANY had contemplated

and DAJANY and ALAM went together to one of the banks and

obtained a loan in order for DAJANY to repay ALAM.

He said

at no time has he ever received Information from ALAM which

could be construed to be of any intelligence value.

MAHMOUD ROUSAN,

FORMERLY MINISTER AT THE JORDANIAN EMBASSY

DAJANY said that when ROUSAN came to the - Jordanian

Embassy; DAJANY waS ROUSAN's superior, ROUSAN being the

Military Attache and DAJANY the First

Secretary.

Later

ROUSAN was recalled to Jordan and was involved in some

difficulty, however he

returned to the United States with

the rank of Minister.

-12-

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 19

---

## Page 26

I NEO (105-4083)

* CRETA

DAJANY feels that ROUSAN has great ambitions, but (S} - (5)

will never succeed because he is the type who writes poetry.

and who dreams. DAJANY recalled that just prior to RoUSAN'S CS

departure from the United States in /July, 1953, he risitede S

ROUSAN at one of the hotels and was told by ROUSAN that her

was roturning to be transferred to a high governent positions?

begging the king for for veness for wrong doings and admitted LS

vorking for the Egyptians. After being advisedal the abovel 5"

with ROUSAN's brother who remained in Washington as a student (S

and whom /DAJANY had been requested by ROUSAN to lock after and S

to help him get a job. DAJANY said he went to the Saudi ArabianS*

embassy and spoke to then in hope they might find work for

gever, he claims he was advised that he CS

According to DAJANY, ROUSAN'is not normal since he CS

with which one

many of the things which ROUSAN thought but many times would S

-to get away from ROUSAND CS

DAJANY said he seriously doubted that (ROUSAN was actually C5*

guilty of the allegations made against him, judging from the

heavy indebtedness of ROUSAN.) S

According

to GAYANY

(ROUSAN and others

ix Jordan.

2050

a trialis soon to be held for(s

(u)

Captain dOSE ASHIMON

PARTEr DAPARTVENT

DAJANY said that he was

very fond of shilo

that they

are dear frlends, having met bim approximatel

five

years ago through a mutual

friend,

SHIMON, and his wafe,

JEANNIE, visit the DAJANY Stand vice®

versa.

had become very fond

interested in the Middle Bast a traSHINg DAAN as

afforded

her much information in this

regard.

DAJANY Said that recently

he had an altercation with an

attendant at a gas station

and had sought SHIMON's aid.

DAJANY, explained that on going

-13- *

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356

Page 20

---

## Page 27

WO (I05-1083 J (RVN(5)

into a gas station and ordering gas, the attendant kept a

*SECREITY

cigarette in his mouth while filling the tank. DAJANYS)

warned the man against this and when the man persisted

and was told to swear out a warrant for the attendant.

regarding the selling of DAJANY's/s)

and recently consulted

SHIMON

personally owned car.

DAJANX recalled that in 1954, he casually mentioned

to SHIMON that he felt his phone was "tamped".

he did not row whether sarion had checked for rapat"

shortly thereafter his relatiopship with sHIMON seemed not

as friendly.

From this DAJANY Surmised SHIMON had

in tact

found a "tap"

probably was dubious about associating

with DAJANY

BARUCH LILO

(5]

ASSOCIATED

WITH EL AID ES?

TOFFICIAL ISRAELT

AIRLINES), NEW YORK

(S)

LILY SCHULTZ

KENMORE ASSOCTATES, (S)

In regard to the above two names

DAJANy did not (S]

know either

person and has had no dealings

with people

sO

named. M

RAFAEL MEDAN - DAVID ZUTA

A (5)

When furnished a description of DAVID ZUTA and MEDAN, he FiS

s ZUTA, who had been introduced to him by oneLBENNY HOURAl

nen shown a photograph ofte

MEDAN Jand ZUTA, DAJANY stated that (MOURAD was identical with

by (MEDAN was identical with the photograph of ZUTA, Me

Europe in Jerusalem) in approximately.

three years ago, MOURAD contacted DAJANY and said he was CL

passing through

town and wanted to see DAJANY.

DAJANY he was a student at a University in New

York CIty, CS)

either Princetong

olumbia, or New York University,

according

to DAJANY d

*-11-

* SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 21

---

## Page 28

wFo 105-4083

SECRET

MOURAD was pursuing a course in economics and was

preparing a thesis in connection with the course and therefore

was consulting DAJANY for assistance.

According to DAJANY,

MOURAD came to Washington from New Yorks about once a month

at which time they would get together for luncheon or a drink

and discuss current topics and the thesis which MOURAD was

preparing.

Oftentimes DAJANY furnished information which

required MOURAD to take notes and DAJANY made notes of what

Never at any time did MOURAD give

DAJANY any money and at no time would he discuss with or

furnish MOURAD any information which could conceivably be

of any intelligence value to the Israelis. DAJANY denied

that he knew MOURAD was associated or employed by the Israeli

Government in the United States and felt confident that

MOURAD was not an intelligence agent. DAJANY could recall

that at least on two occasions he had received a magazine

from MOURAD and on one of these occasions the magazine

contained a manila envelope in which

there was the thesis

on which MOURAD was working.

It is noted that on July 10, 1958, DAJANY had

been observed to enter the Roger Smith Hotel, pick up a

magazine dropped by RAFAEL MEDAN and later, on a streetcar,

take from the magazine a white envelope which he opened

and peered into and later deposited three hundred and fifty

dollars in a bank in Washington. DAJANY vigorously and

categorically denied any such occurrence.

He said that it

may have been one of the times that he received a thesis

which had been enclosed in the magazine but never any money. f

DAJANY recalled that near the end of 1958, he had:

been introduced by MOURAD to an individual he identified as

ZUTA from the photograph.

recalled tonta

This man was met on two occasions

only with the last occasion being several months ago. The

man was introduced by name, however DAJANY did not recall it.

He reported to DAJANY that be was a student at Baltimore,

Maryland and indicated a fair knowledge of the Middle East.

and of Jerusalem.

The man asked about the welfare of certain

families in Jerusalem known to DAJANY.

He appeared to know

the location of the tomb of DAJANY's father and they also

discussed a little Arab girl who had been operated on by a

Doctor JIAMOND in Boston whose

treatment was made possible

by DAJANY's intercession.

SHORE

*-15-7

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 22

---

## Page 29

WFO

(105-4083

(5)

DAJANY has not seen MOURAD since the time he

was

introduced to the man known as DAVID ZUTA and DAJANY did

not know whether MOURAD was presently in New York or the

United States.

DAJANY has not been contactedby ZUTA

any fashion since the last time described above. Dele

In connection with sizeable sums of money received

by DAJANY, as determined by previous investigation, DAJANY

said no such funds were coming into his possession

and

welcomed the examination of his accounts and personal belongings.

After repeated questions concerning financial arrangements between

DAJANY and MEDAN Or ZUTA, DAJANY recalled that he had received

various amounts of money for a period of over three years. He

explained that approximately five years ago while in Europe, he

met a Mr. FALKHIRSCH, whom DAJANY described as a real estate

man from Israel. DAJANY, who, with his family, has considerable

• in Israeli held Jerusalem, was

advised by FALKHIRSCH to make application to the Custodian of

Enemy Property in Israel, in order to draw the proceeds from

rents of the property and part of the savings in banks in

Israel. DAJANY said he waited a while, possibly until about

three years ago, when he made application to the Custodian

(the name of the Custodian and the place to which he directed

the application was unknown to DAJANY) He said that about

three years ago money started coming in. First there wa. a one

hundred dollar limitation per month that persons outside of

Israel could ruceive.

"DAJANY judged there were three hundred

to four hundred Arabs in the United States rechiving

money

from the Custodian of Enemy Property in Israel..

According to DAJANY it is his understanding that

the money being received from the Custodian of Enemy Property

has ceased or will cease in the near future because of some

does not know.

Es 1 agents Whether it will begin agala, DAdAY

DAJANY was asked if he had in his possession an

accounting of the money received over a given period of

time, however, he said that he had not kept such an account

because the money was sent directly to his family in Beirut,

Lebanon, and they in turn would send part of the money to

which he was entitld.

He said that many times his

brothers or hisrelatives would make a trip from Jordan to

the United States and would bring to him parcels of goods

and foods and at the same time bring bank drafts or checks

and currency to him from the Custodian of Enemy Property.

(5)

* -16-

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 23

---

## Page 30

UKE!

WEO [105-4083

5

DAJANY denied that ZUTA or MOURAD (MEDAN) had ever

handed to him any monies which came from the Custodian and

again denied that he had ever received from New York or from

any other city money as a result of his contacts with any of

the Israelis.

In fact, DAJANY said that on at least one

occasion MOURAD had borrowed one hundred and fifty dollars

from him as a loan which he later repaid. &

In connection with DAVID ZUTA, it appeared that

ZUTA merely wanted to continue the friendship established

by MOURAD. DAJANY stated that he enjoyed ZUTA because of

excellent Arabic he spoke but aside from this he did not

feel that ZUTA was overly intelligent. He said by no means

would he ever suspect that ZUTA was an intelligence operator

and at no time

did

he ever discuss with ZUTA anything which

could be terme intelligence

OT

which would be of any value

to the Israeli Government.

DAJANY advised that he had no way to contact

either MOURAD (MEDAN) or the person to whom he was introduced

by MOURAD (ZUTA) and that contacts by them with him had been

initiated by these two men.

DAJANY said that his work at the International Bank

did not allow him access to the type of information the

Israeli Government might be desirous of. He worked exclusively

in the Far East such as Burma, Viet Nam, and the Philippines,

and there was nothing in connection with such an assignment

Israeli Government.

at the International Bank ghich could be of interest to the

He said he was never asked by MOURAD or the person

introduced by MOURAD or by any persons he knew to be Israelis

to furnish them with any information from his work at the

International Bank and at no time has he ever received any

pay for any discussion he might have had with any Israelis.

In concluding the interview, DAJANY stated he

felt fortunate that he was contacted prior to his departure

on "home leave" from the bank for now he could talk to his

mother and brother's in Lebanon and get their permission to

tell the tru. story of

his

activities, a story which he said

"will make you laugu'.

SECRET *

-17*

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 24

---

## Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Rejer o

File No.

(105-4083] 5)

SECRET

Washington, D. C

OMAR FAROUE DAJANY

INTERNAL SECURITY - ISRAEL

Confidential informants WF T-1, WF T-2, WF F-3, and

NY T-1, utilized in report of Special Agent Malcolm P. Carr,

dated and captioned as

above, have furnished reliable information

In the past. PAtT (SM)

This memorandum is loaned to you by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation and neither it nor its contents are to be

distributed outside the

agency to which loaned.

i H0 S003

200d!

280

19 7

1183S

i be

40204

164Sc

260/2324/2841

nas dad

20x de

thre

20.

E 11

solidar

421901448

783

CONFIDENTIAL

18

& SECRET?

NH 50953 DocId: 32313356 Page 25

---

