# 124-90139-10121

## Page 1

124-90139-10121

JFK. Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90139-10121

HQ

109-584-2950

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO:

LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE:

10/16/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

INH 50953

DocId: 32337994

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LUNAL FORM NO. 10

UNITE? STATES GOVE

Memorandum

SECRET

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

Evans

TO

..:

110%%

R. O. L'AlliCE

CIÁ HAS NO OBJECTION TO

5/22/96

DATE: October 36/196

1961

DECLAGE ISSATION ANDOR,:

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIAN LapiCh

CLASSIFIED BY S6le8-SL0/mdl 6-27-98 Trote Room

IN THIS DOCUMENT, ER COPI FOR BRACKETS

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

Dosadoe

151-0

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On September 25,

1961, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

furnished the identities of Cuban exiles who were being used by

that Agency on various operations directed against the present

cuban overnment.

Included on this list were the names

of Manuel del

Caral

1_ and

Julio Jane argudia.

We have since received infor-

matioh from our New Orleans Office

indicating that these two individ-

uals have been attempting to recruit Cuban students in the New Orleans

recruitment allegedly is related to operations being

planned against the Castro government.

Caral and Argudia allegedly

have made statements to the effect that they have the backing of the

U.S. Government. (54X

the Liaison Agent informed

concerning the activities of these

to dian a pite one at one to ta set tarate ted s

technical violation of the impersonation statutes.

that the two Cubans definitely were not authorized to make Such

representations and he was immediately taking steps to make

there would not be any reoccurrence of such activity.(ga

cer

Cain

ACTION:

75

Letter 119.

ЗАСТАМ 8

The above information is being directed to the attention

Di vise Na

Mr.' Rosen

1

Mr. Faulkner

- MT. Donahoe

1

-: Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

SEE REVES

SIDE FOR

SJP: gp

(6)

CLASSRE LCA

ACTION

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWA

OTHERWISE

Dectassify on: OADR

REC- 40

109-584-2950

OCT 191961

ĐX: 1050

--COPIES MADE

DATE 70-101

-RE PApich

FOR REVIEN AT TOMWANÜ/1

TO HSCA i

QUEST DAILU

+ 2

(SEE BuriLe 0<-11729U)

SECRET

HW 50953

DooId: 32337994 Page 2

---

