# 124-10196-10477

## Page 1

124-10196-10477

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10196-10477

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 149-5378-9

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. MM

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 01/27/1968

PAGES: 14

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT, BOMBING, DAMAGE, SUSPECT, BOSCH, GUTIERREZ VIDAL,

ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/13/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC GID NOTE

NW 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 1

---

## Page 2

G

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

HELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUdE

PASSANITIZED

GMB 816196

35

VIA TELETYPE

JAN 2 8 1968

ENCIPHERED

SECRET

NR

URGENTO

==5/25

PM EST LAS

REC- 32

ALI INFORMATION CONTANED

OEASSIFIID

# SHOWN

1/27/68

DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

GCOOENCODED.-

FROM MIAMI

AIRPORT - FLORIDA

Unknown Subject

8-25

UNSUB; EXPLOSION ABOARD B.

TWENTYFIVE CARGO AIRCRAFT NUMBER

XB -

MOP, MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORI, ONE IWENTY SIXTYEIGHT,

Destruction of Aircrait or Moter Vehicles

Internal Security

DAMV, CUBAN POWER, RS - CUBA.

Mr. Tolson.

Mr, DeLoach

Mr

Mr.

Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Bale Mr

Mr. Rosgh.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

Cation

NARA

REBUTEL TO MIAMI JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST, UNDER FIRST

CAPTION; MIAMI TEL JANUARY IWENTYFIVE LAST ÄND MIAMI AIRTEL :

JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST UNDER SECOND CAPTION•

CenTral Intelligence

+ 797-4194

3 PERMISSION SECURED FROM CIA FOR

"E PERVIEW BY BUREAU AGENTS

S

OF

MIAMI, WHO IS OF HIGHLY OPERAIIONAL INTEREST

WAS CONTACTED ON NIGHT

OF JANUARyREG 34 • /4fO

150 CLARE

FOLLOWS:

SPEMAC/KER

SIX LAST A ROUSED AS

2 FEB. 7

MS FEB 1

1968

END PAGE ONE

XEROX:

JAN

1968

RELAYED TO

97-4194-

1968,

Declassify on: DADIR: 4119/823

MR. DELOACH, FOR THE, DIRECTOR

6-

NY FTB

1$68

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 105/76200

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONIDENTIAL

SECRETS

PAGE TWO

ELA

ON DECEMBER FOURTEEN LAST, ORLANDO BOSCHA

VILA, PROMINENI

CUBAN EXILE LEADERS, WHO HEADS MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR), ADVISED SOURCE

CONFIDENTIALLY A NEW EXILE ORGANIZATION CALLED CUBAN POWER

• WAS BEING CREATED BY MY MEN IN NEW YORK CITY" AND INDICATED

HE WOULD FURNISH MORE INFORMATION LATER

ON JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST, JORGERGONZALEZ, AKA "BOMBILLA

FLA

ONE OF BOSCH'S LIEUTENANTS IN MIRR AND CHIEF OF MILITARY

ARM OF MIRR, ADVISED SOURCE HE WAS MEMBER OF CUBAN POWER,

WHOSE OBJECTIVE WAS STOPPING OF SENDING OF PARCELS TO CUBA •

HE REVEALED CUBAN POWER WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR BOMBINGS OF THE

POST OFFCES

New Jersey

AT ELIZABETH, NO, ON DECEMBER FOUR LAST, NEW YORK

CITY ON DECEMBER NINE LAST AND HAVANA, CUBA, ON JANUARY

EIGHT LAST. HE SAID IN ADDITION, THEY HAD SENT EXPLOSIVE

PACKAGES TO "TRAITORS AMONG THE EXILES." GONZALEZ SAID TOP

LEADERS OF MIRR WERE RUNNING CUBAN POWER ORGANIZATION AND

WITHIN SEVEN OR EIGHT DAYS THEY WERE GOING TO CAÚSE AN EXPLOSION X CI)

5.9+8

END PAGE TWO

33.9

P10100

CONEID

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRETA

PAGE THREE

WHICH WOULD BE HEARD ALL OVER THE WORLD.

GONZALEZ INDICATED

SOURCE WOULD BE FIRST TO BE TOLD OF THIS NEWS EVENT BEFORE

IT OCCURRED •

* (11)

SOURCE NOTED ABOVE MEETING WITH GONZALEZ WAS HELD AT

OFFICE OF CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY MIAMI, A SHIPPING COMPANY

ENGAGED IN SHIPMENT OF PARCELS TO CUBA, WHICH COMPANY IS

TOWNED BY PAULINOXGUTIERREZAVIDAL. GUTIERREZ VIDAL, AS

WELL AS HIS SON, JORGE GUTIERREZOLLA, ARE MEMBERS OF MIRR CUBA.

AND CLOSE ASSOCIATES OF BOSCH• BOSCH FREQUENTLY MEETS WITH

MIRR MEMBERS AT CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY OFFICES AND SOURCE

NOTED RECENT BOMBINGS BY CUBAN POWER MAY BE EFFORT TO ELIMINATE

COMPETITION, NOTING CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY IS NOT ONE

OF THOSE COMPANIES BOMBED TO DATE.

ON JANUARY SIXTEEN LAST, SOURCE MET WITH BOSCH,

GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND ANOTHER UNKNOWN CUBAN MALE AT CUBAN EXPRESS •

COMPANY• BOSCH THEN CONFIRMED THAT A BOMB WOULD BE SET OFF BY

TOER WITH NO SEXT FEW DAYS AND STATED HE VAS THEN LEAVING FOR (2)

END PAGE THREE

1014,09

CONFIDENT

SECREN

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

IDENTIAL

PAGE FOUR

SOUTH MIAMI VIA HIGHWAY ONE TO PICK UP EXPLOSIVE. * (21)

ON JANUARY NINETEEN LAST, SOURCE CONTACIED GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND

WAS TOLD BY HIM THAT THE PLANE FROM MERIDA, MEXICO, WAS TO ARRIVE

ON THAT DATE. HE REPORTEDLY TOLD SOURCE TO STAND BY FOR THE

NEXT IWENTYFOUR HOURS BECAUSE "WE WILL HAVE BIG

NEWS FOR YOU." GUTIERREZ VIDAL INDICATED HE HAD LEARNED OF

THE SCHEDULED ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE TIMES OF THE PLANE FROM

MERIDA THROUGH CONTACT WITH FAUSTO DIAZ, LOCAL MANAGER OF

COMPANIA AREA DE CARGA YUCATAN. (X) (21)

ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST AT THREE

AM AN UNIDENTIFIED MALE

TELEPHONED HOME OF SOURCE AND TALKED WITH SOURCE WIFE,

ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO. THE CALLER STATED, "TELL ANGULO

WE PUT A BOMB ON THE PLANE FOR MERIDA," AFTER WHICH HE HUNG UP •

MRS. ANGULO RECOGNIZED THE VOICE AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA. (/)(U1)

AT SIX FIFTY AM, ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST, THE ABOVE MALE

AGAIN CALLED HOME OF SOURCE AND WAS TOLD THAT ANGULO HAD

LEFT FOR THE AIRPORT. MRS. ANGULO INQUIRED IF THIS WAS BOSCH

CALLING, AFTER WHICH THE CALLER HUNG UP •

*(2)

SOURCE WAS OF OPINION BOSCH DID NOT ACTUALLY PLACE BOMB

ON THE B TWENTYRIVE PLANE BUT THIS WAS PROBABLY EFFECTED BY C* (U)

END PAGE FOUR

CONDENT

SECREN

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRED

PAGE FIVE

JORGE GONZALEZ, A "BOMBELLA," AT BOSCH'S INSTRUCTIONS. (* (1)

ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO INTERVIEWED BY BUREAU AGENTS

ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST AND CONFIRMED ABOVE FLE.

TELEPHONE CALLS RECEIVED BY HER AND THAT SHE RECOGNIZED THE

VOXCE OF CALLER AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA. CX(U1)

IDENTIFIABLE IN MIAMI FILES DUE TO COMMON NAME

Information

LATTERADAD NEMORANDUM

NEW YORK NOTE TWER IN PARAGRAPH THREE OF MIAMI THM ENCLOSED

WITH MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU, NINE TWENTYTWO SIXTYSEVEN, CAPTIONED

"JORGE GUTIERREZ, AKA JORGE LUIS SEBASTIAN GUTIERREZ ULLA,

JORGITO GUTIERREZ, IS - CUBA."

ETERNAL SECURIT THIS SHOWS INFO RECEIVED FROM

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE (WILLIAM SAMPOL, CONTACTED BY NEW YORK

OFFICES THAT ORLANDO BOSCH WAS PRESENT T MEETING OF CUBAN

NATIONALISI MOVEMENT (CNM) IN NEW YORK IN JUNE, SIXTYSEVEN,

AT WHICH PLANS WERE DISCUSSED FOR MILITARY ACTION AGAINST

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN CANADA BOSCH REPORTEDLY MADE REFERENCE TO ONE

GUTIERREZ IN MIAMI, NOT OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED, WHO POSSESSED

VARIOUS EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WHICH COULD BE USED IN CONNECTION

WITH FUTURE PLANS OF THE MIRR AND CNM. *(A) 21)

Lientenant

ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST, DI. SWILLEY, INTELLIGENCE

Police Department

DIVISION g

MIAMI RD.

• WHO HAS CERTAIN CUBAN SUSPECIS UNDER

END PAGE FIVE

SECRED

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

PAGE SIX

SURVEILLANCE IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION OF RECENT RASH

OF BOMBINGS, WAS FURNISHED NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF BOSCH,

GUTIERREZ VIDAL, GUTIERREZ ULLA, AS WELL AS NAME OF JORGE •

GONZALEZ, AKF

"BOMBILLA," AND WAS ADVISED INFO HAD BEEN RECEIVED

THEY WERE IMPLICATED IN RECENT BOMBINGS

NEW YORK CONTACT

WILLIAM SAMPOLA IF

AVAILABLE, AND OTHER

INFORMANIS FAMILIAR

WITH CNM ORGANIZATION FOR INFO RE FORMING

OF CUBAN POWER AND ANY KNOWLEDGE OF BOMBINGS IN MIAMI BY

THIS GROUP •

INVESTIGATION CONTINUING BY MIAMI• COPIES AIR MAIL TO

WashingTon Field Office

NEWARK AND WA.

38

END

R RELAY "

F.JB

fier.n

FBI WASHEDC

1.93

SECRED

'OC-MR. ROSEN Me Sullion

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

GMB 816196

NR

URGE

VIA TELETYPE

JAN 2 8 1968

ENCIPHERED

SECRREL

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

CO

Mr. Felt.

JALI

UMr.

Mr. Gale

Rosen-

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel,

Classified by S0'3 cle l-QY (1F16)

Trotter

le. Room

Declassify on: OADREa/

Miss Gandy

-5/25

PM EST LAS

1/27/68

DIRECTOR

AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM MIAMI

--ENCODED -

UNSUB: EXPLOSION ABOARD B IWENTYFIVE CARGO AIRCRAFI NUMBER

XB - MOP MIAMI INTERNAIIONAL AIRPORT, ONE TWENTY SIXTYEIGHT,

DAMU, CUBAN POWER, IS - CUBA.

REBUTEL TO MIAMI JANUARY IWENTYSIX LAST, UNDER FIRST

CAPTION: MIAMI TEL JANUARY IWENTYFIVE LAST AND MIAMI AIRTEL

JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST UNDER SECOND CAPTION.

* PERMISSION SECURED FROM CIA FOR INTERVIEW BY BUREAU AGENTS

OF

MIAMI, WHO IS OF HIGKLY OPERATIONAL INTERESI TO CIA

WAS CONIACTED

ON NIGHI OF JANUARY TWENTYSX LAST AND

FOLLOWS:

ive?

7G

ADVISED AS

END PAPT

ONE

RELAYED TO N/ +FTB

149-5378-9

' SECRET

CONFID

FIVE

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE: 50 CACLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHENE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CON

ETAL

SECRED

PAGE TWO

ON DECEMBER FOURTEEN LAST, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, PROMINENT

CUBAN EXILE LEADER, WHO HEADS MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR), ADVISED SOURCE

CONFIDENTIALLY A NEW EXILE ORGANIZATION CALLED CUBAN POWER

WAS BEING CREATED BY "MY MEN IN NEW. YORK CITY" AND INDICATED

HE WOULD FURNISH MORE INFORMATION LATER •

(*) (11)

ON JANUARY FIFTEEN LAST, JORGE GONZALEZ,

"BOMBILLA,"

ONE OF BOSCK'S LIEUTENANTS IN MIRR AND CHIEF OF MILITARY

ARM OF MIRR, ADVISED SOURCE KE WAS MEMBER OF CUBAN POWER,

WHOSE OBJECTIVE WAS STOPPING OF SENDING OF PARCELS TO CUBA.

HE REVEALED CUBAN POWER WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR BOMBINGS OF THE

POST OFFCES AT ELIZABETH, NO, ON DECEMBER FOUR LAST, NEW YORK

CITY ON DECEMBER NINE LAST AND HAVANA, CUBA, ON JANUARY

EIGHI LAST. HE SAID IN ADDITION, THEY MAD SENT EXPLOSIVE

PACKAGES TO "TRAITORS AMONG THE EXILES." GONZALEZ SAID TOP

LEADERS OF MIRR WERE RUNNING CUBAN POWER ORGANIZATION AND

WITHIN SEVEN OR EIGHT DAYS THEY WERE GOING TO CAUSE AN EXPLOSION A 21)

END PAGE TWO

CONS

SECREt.

STAL

11:9150.01

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE THREE

SECRET

CONERENTIAL

WHICH WOULD BE MEARD ALL OVER THE WORLD. GONZALEZ INDICATED

SOURCE WOULD BE FIRST TO BE TOLD OF THIS NEWS EVENT BEFORE

IT OCCURRED •

*)u)

SOURCE NOTED

ABOVE MEETING WITH GONZALEZ WAS HELD AT

OFFICE OF CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY MIAMI, A SHIPPING COMPANY

ENGAGED IN SHIPMENI OF PARCELS TO CUBA, WHICH COMPANY IS

OWNED BY PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL. GUTIERREZ VIDAL, AS

WELL AS HIS SON, JORGE GUTIERREZ ULLA, ARE MEMBERS OF MIRR

AND CLOSE ASSOCIAITES OF BOSCH, BOSCH FREQUENILY MEETS WITH

MIRR MEMBERS AT CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY OFFICES AND SOURCE

NOTED RECENT BOMBINGS BY CUBAN POWER MAY BE EFFORT TO ELIMINATE

COMPETITION, NOTING CUBAN EXPRESS COMPANY IS NOT ONE

OF THOSE COMPANIES BOMBED IO DATE.

ON JANUARY SIXTEEN LAST, SOURCE MET WITH BOSCH,

GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND ANOTHER UNKNOWN CUBAN MALE AT CUBAN EXPRESS

COMPANY• BOSCH THEN CONFIRMED THAT A BOMB WOULD BE SET OFF BY

THEM WITHTU NEXT FEW DAYS AND STATED HE WAS THEN LEAVING FOR (X(U1)

END PAGE THREE

-310 2

SECRETO

NH 50953 DocId:32287201 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

CONEIDENTIAL

PAGE FOUR

SOUTH MIAMI VIA HIGHNA ONE TO PICK UP EXPLOSIVE. X)(U1)

ON JANUARY NINETEEN LAST, SOURCE CONTACTED GUTIERREZ VIDAL AND

WAS TOLD BY HIM IHAT THE PLANE FROM MERIDA, MEXICO, WAS TO ARRIVE

ON THAT DATE, HE REPORTEDLY TOLD SOURCE TO STAND BY FOR IHE

NEXT TWENIYFOUR HOURS BECAUSE *WE WILL HAVE BIG

NEWS FOR YOU." GUTIERREZ VIDAL INDICATED HE HAD LEARNED OF

THE SCHEDULED ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE TIMES OF THE PLANE FROM

MERIDA THROUGH CONTACT WITH FAUSTO DIAZ, LOCAL MANAGER OF

COMPANIA AREA DE CARGA YUCATAN. N(U1)

ON JANUARY TWENTY LAST AT THREE AM AN UNIDENTIFIED MALE

TELEPHONED HOME OF SOURCE AND TALKED WITH SOURCE' WIFE,

ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO. THE CALLER STATED, "TELL ANGULO

WE PUT A BOMB ON THE PLANE FOR MERIDA," AFTER WHICH HE HUNG UP.

MRS. ANGULO RECOGNIZED THE VOICE AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA.

AT SIX FIFTY AM, ON JANUARY IWENTY LAST, THE ABOVE MALE "

AGAIN CALLED HOME OF SOURCE AND WAS TOLD THAT ANGULO HAD

LEFT FOR THE AIRPORT. MRS. ANGULO INQUIRED

IF THIS WAS BOSCH

*(2)

SOURCE WAS OF OPINION BOSCH DID NOT ACTUALLY PLACE BOMB

OW THE B TVENTYFIVE PLANE BUT THIS WAS PROBABLY EÉCTED BY * (21)

END PAGE FOUR

CONSIDE

TAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 11

---

## Page 12

• 8

SECRET

CONEIDE

AL

PAGE FIVE

ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO INTERVIEWED BY BUREAU AGENTS

ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST AND CONFIRMED ABOVE

TELEPHONE CALLS RECEIVED BY HER AND THAT SHE RECOGNIZED THE

VOICE OF CALLER AS THAT OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILÃ CO (U)

JORGE GONZALEZ AKA "BOMBILLA," IS NOT IMMEDIATELY

IDENTIFIABLE IN MIAMI FILES DUE TO COMMON

NAME.

MU)

NEW YORK NOTE INFO IN PARAGRAPH THREE OF MIAMI LAM ENCLOSED

WIIH MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU, NINE IWENTYTWO SIXTYSEVEN, CAPTIONED

"JORGE GUTIERREZ, AKA JORGE LUIS SEBASTIAN CUTIERREZ ULLA,

JORGITO GUTIERREZ, IS - CUBA."

*THIS SHOWS INFO REGEIVED FROM

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE (WILLIAM SAMPOL, CONTACIED BY NEW YORK

OFFICE) THAT ORLANDO BOSCH WAS PRESENT AT MEETING OF CUBAN

NATIONALIST MOVEMENT (ONM) IN NEW YORK IN JUNE, SIXTYSEVEN,

AT WHICH PLANS WERE DISCUSSED FOR MILITARY ACIION AGAINST

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN CANADA. BOSCH REPORTEDLY MADE REFERENCE TO ONE

GUTIERREZ IN MIAMI, NOT OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED, WHO POSSESSED

VARIOUS EXPLOSIVE DEVICES WHICH COULD BE USED IN CONNECTION

WITH PUTURE PLANS OF THE MIRR AND CNM

10) (U)

ON JANUARY TWENTYSIX LAST, LI, SWILLEY, INTELLIGENCE

DIVISION, MIAMI PD, WHO MAS CERTAIN CUBAN SUSPECIS UNDER

END PAGE FIVE

SECREI

MILAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRE

CONsIDENTAL

PAGE SIX

SURVEILLANCE IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION OF RECENT RASH

OF BOMBINGS, WAS FURNISHED NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF

BOSCH,

GUTIERREZ VIDAL, GUTIERREZ ULLA, AS WELL AS NAME.. OF JORGE

GONZALEZ, AKA "BOMBILLA," AND WAS ADVISED INFO MAD BEEN RECEIVED

THEY WERE IMPLICATED IN RECENT BOMBINGS

NEW YORK CONTACKILL JAM SAMP ON TO

O(2U) LABLE • AND OTHER

INFORMANTS FAMILIAR WITH CNM ORGANIZATION FOR INFO RE FORMING

OF CUBAN POWER AND ANY KNOWLEDGE OF BOMBINGS IN MIAMI BY

THIS GROUP •

INVESTIGATION CONTINUING BY MIAMI. COPIES AIR MAIL TO

NEWARK AND WO•

END

RELAXE

"FJB,,

I FBI WASH DO

SECRET. "-311601

ORIG: TIR. DELOACH POR DIRECTOR

NH 50953 DocId: 32287201 Page 13

---

