# 124-10053-10348

## Page 1

124-10053-10348

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/20/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10053-10348

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

62-109060-1870

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, LO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/13/1963

2

JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

H49 50953

DocId: 32136330

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

F[..36 (Rey. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRFOLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

•RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Wai Priätity or Method of Mailing)

EXCEPT BROCHMEN

10 5 2.3.

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM TAH 3-M7GgLEGAT, LONDON (62-359) (P)

ASR 3-30-43

RED 38

h040

ASSASSINATION OE. PRESIDENT

JOHN F.

KENNEDY

12/10/63 Secretl

(JFRIESR

56685401

9. 7-95

8-17-92

Casindby 9803 RODISK

7/2/772742

Classificati

Scion Indofinite

Date s? Ecolas

Remyairtel 11/26/63 reporting a newspaper reporter

in Cambridge,

England had stated he received anonymous telephone

call prior to the time.of the President's assassination saying he

should call the American Embassy in London as there would be

some

big news.U

ry

The Bureau was informed that on the next road trip

to Scandanavia checks would be made with sources there for any

intormation on OSWALD My cable of 11/27/63 stated British

nad Intormed that the reporter was unreliable

and irresponsible.

21 ChassilenatesChanges

72396. 50-8-

Ade Per CIA lette

KC45S

On

2/9/63 MALCOLM CUMMING of MI-5 advised that this

reporter, TREVOR

received

the, calf at

MORAL had been interviewed. He stated he d

the offices of the "Cambridge News" at about

6 PM gn Friday November 22, 1963.

He based the time on the fact he

had arrived

home from his office

at 6:20 PM. The call was made by

man with an, English accent who spoke

with

a deep voice.

Inquiries

at the telephone exchange in Cambridge were unable to confirm the

call. LAccording to MI-5, while FITZGERALD is described as a capable

reporter-a reliable source has informed he is in the habit of

"shooting a line" There were no other persons in the office when

the call

was allegedly received and it was not until the morning of

Baturday, 11/23/63 that FITZGERALD mentioned the call. On the

morning of 11/23/6J the reporters of the

"Cambridge News" were dis-

cussing the assassination and tila'a

the call

to

the chief reporter: who

at thisitime FITZGERALD mentioned

in

turn reported it tò local

authorities

REC 38 62-109060-270

3

- Bureau

1 - Liaison

1 - London

CWB:rn

section i(sent direct)

/ 1.1. I XEROX

ĐEG I6 1S63

AMIT A TH

W1 CONCAINED963

ISSIFIED

$ 6 - WicK

Sullisin

Approved:

7 aUtu 18 Segial Agent in Charge

M

Speare

RET

NH 50953 DoeId: 32136330

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lonfile 62-359

CWB ern

secret

SLONEY

According to MI-5, FITZGERALD is married

resides at 3 Earl Street, Cambridge.

He was born 3/28/39 there is

On 12/2/63

informed me

that a check had

American Embassy, allen Police, Criminal Police,

and all hotels in Osloy lie checks were completely negative

stated Stockholm newspapers

11/25/63

reported OSWALD

obtained his Soviet visa in Stockholm in 1959 after being unable

u to get the visa in Helsinki, Finland.

The news account said

OSWALD had remained in Stockholm for

two days.

A check of all

hotel records in Stockholm were

negative. Lolice, security and

alien records also negative

(S)

On 12/6/631

advised

hat confidential inquiry had disclosed OSWALD arrived in Helsinki

one night,

then moved to the Klaus Kurki Hotel where he remained

until 10/15/69. On that date he crossed the Finnish-Soviet

border by train.

otated there was no indication he went

to Stockholm to get his visa and it is presumed the visa was

issued by the Soviet Embassy in Helsinki.

A check of police, and

alien records disclosed no information in Helsinki

CLASS PORE CIA ON 5-8-92

9803 ROS/ISR

5718-92

# 6454

- 2 -

50953

DocId: 32136330

Paue 3

---

