# 124-90107-10131

## Page 1

124-90107-10131|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90107-10131

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-99

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/15/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

COMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1B;4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

• COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

TH 50953 DocId:32333518

Page 1

77

---

## Page 2

.. SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF #VESTIGATION

U. S. DEFARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 1 6 1963

TELETYPÉ

Mr. This

Mr. E.r.

Mr. M

Mt. (inger

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECK ASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpT BRACKETS iN IP2

KP 11-14-97

"IS.

str, vaile

Tavel

M.. Fretter.

i. Holmes

URGENT

6-15-53

752

PM

EST

ALd INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINTE UNCIAGEME

TO DIRECTOR, FBI.

/105-11 7222/

-EXCETY WE

FROM SAC, MIAMI

1105-70541

2-22-97

COMANDOS L. IS-CUBA RA-CUBA•

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

CIA MIAMI DODAN ADVISED THAT ON SIX FOURTEEN SINTYTAREE, THEY

RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT CAPTIONED ORGANIZATION IS RUMORED TO BE

PLANNING A-RAID AGAINST THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA, SOMETIME BETWEEN

JUNESE FOURTEEN AND JUNE, TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE. THE TARGET IS AT

BOUNDARY LINE OF MATANZAS ANE HAVANA PROVINCES. A

#(u)

SOURCE IS

WITH INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE

OF

MARATIME ACTIVITIES IN FLORIDA. THIS SOURCE RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION FROM A PERSON WHO HAS CONTACI WITH CUBAN MILITARY AND

POLITICAL GROUPS IN MIAMI. CIA SAID THEY WILL NOTIFY U. E? CUSTOMS.

ANTONIO PEREZ QUESADA, A FISHERMAN WHO IS IN COMANDO L ACTION GROUP,

WHO HAS BEEN COOPERATIVE IN THE PAST, AND HAS PARTICIPATED

IN RAIDS,

TODAY ADVISED THAT

NE KNOWS OF NOEX MEDIATE PLANS FOR SUCH A RAID

END PAGE ONE

Thered Worm

SE CONFAL

HEI/EU-DISECAOB

JUN 19.1963

V62 JUN 21 1963

MR. BELMONT FOR TIS

: DIRECTOR

CLASS. &

REASON-E

SECRE ArE OF

• 1-2.4.27

ITT 50953

DorTd: 32333548

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

PAGE TWO

MM SIX THREE NINE-S AND MM SIX THREE FIVE-S TODAY ADVISED COMANDOS

L ARE CONSIDERING DIFFÈRENT PLANS FOR AN OPERATION AGAINST CUBA BUT HAVE

NON SCHEDULED FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE • INFORMANTS ARE IN

ALMOST DAILY CONTACT WITH COMANDOS L LEADERS.

MIAMI IS ALERTING OTHER INFORMANTS, MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH LOCAL

FEDERAL AGENCIES AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

END AND ACK PLS

8-59 PM OK FBI WA BH

TU BH DIS O

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

CONHLLNTIAL

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32333548

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FIST

SECRET

• 420

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CER FEDRAL BUREAU OF UIVESTIGATION

A V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 1 5 1963 m

TELETYPE

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. FXCOP1 BRACKETS iN 1P2

KP 11-14-97

CONF ENTIAL

IVIT

12-22-93 /

CLASSIFIED BY 15468 SL0MSRR

DECLASSIFY Cid faTs

MISFIC

URGENT

6-15-63

7-52

TO DIRECTOR, FBI.

/ 105-14 7222/

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-7054/

EST

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

OTHEZWISE

COMANDOS L. IS-CUBA RA-CUBA.

CIA MIAMI DODAY ADVISED THAT ON SIX FOURTEEN SIXTYTHREE, THEY

RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT CAPTIONED ORGANIZATION IS RUMORED TO BE

PLANNING A RAID AGAINST THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA, SOMETIME BETUEEN

JUNE, FOURTEEN AND JUNE, TWENTY, SIXTYTHREE. THE TARGET IS AT

THE BOUNDARY LINE OF MATANZAS AND MAVANA

PROVINCES.

(1) 5

CIA SOURCE IS

SITH INTIMATE KNOWLEDGE

OF MARATIME ACTIVITIES IN FLORIDA: THIS SOURCE RECEIVED THE

INFORMATION FROM A PERSON WHO HAS CONTACT WITH CUBAN MILITARY AND

POLITICAL GROUPS IN MIAMI, CIA SAID THEY WILL NOTIFY U. S. CUSTOMS+ AT

ANTONIO PEREZ QUESADA, A FISHERMAN WHO IS IN COMANDO I ACTION GROUP,!

WHO HAS BEEN COOPERATIVE IN THE PAST, AND HAS PARTICIPATED IN RAIDS,

TOPARIADVISED: THAT

HE KNOWS OF NO

Classified Bei

SOBCICIODIATE PLANS FOR SUCH A

END PAGE ONE

Prosty co

91-80

5468-540/ MALA

as 1 185-117222-99

COpY TO SULLIVAN

COPY TO WANNALL

REASON-ICIN

BY SPH

DATE OF I

BOUTDEN

COPY TO NASCO

SECRET

SECRET

105-99289

HH 50953 DoCTO: 32333548

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRE

COMFXENTIAL

PAGE TWO

MN SIX THREE NINE-S AND MM SIX THREE FIVE-S TODAY ADVISED COMANDOS

L ARE CONSIDERING DIFFERENT PLANS FOR AN OPERATION AGAINST CUDA BUT HAVE

NON SCHEDULED FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE * INFORMANTS ARE

ALMOST DAILY CONTACT WITH COMANDOS L LEADERS.

* (4)

MIAMI IS ALERTING OTHER INFORMANTS, MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH LOCAL

FEDERAL. AGENCIES AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

END: AND ACK PLS

8=59 PM: OK FBI WA BH

TU. BH DIS 0

ORIG: MR. BELMONT FOR DIRECTOR

COMPOENTIAL

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32333548 Page 5

---

