# 124-10264-10491

## Page 1

124-10264-10491

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10264-10491

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1642

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1959

PAGES: 47

SUBJECT:

CC, TELCAL, CONTACTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/24/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(A)

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC 14 MEMO, 1 COVER SHEET, 2 ADMIN PAGES, 1 REPORT, I TTY, 3

TELEGRAM, 1 LTR, 1 A/T, 3 LHM

NW 50953 DocId: 32195998 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2 - Mr. J. d. Minta

- Mr. P. V. Daly)

1 = MI.

T.

W. Leavitt

1 - Mr.

s. F. Phillips

May 2l, 1976

1 - Me. S. J. Miller

Director, FI

RECLA 62-116-39571642

U.S. SIRATI SPURGI OM

ON DTILLICKICE ACT

• (se)

the BSC lo the onlin

Iron 1 of saferone

records is a espy of the

Inclosures (2)

62-116995

I - The Dipaty Attorne

Attention:

Michel 3.

Shaheen, Je.

Spmelal Cruel fer

Intelliga

Coonlimtion

SJM: lab /hb

Delivered to Dept 518-26 PND/40

D-livered to Committee E128 16

Assoc. Dir. m

Dap. AD Adm. _

•CACLOSURE

Dap. AD Irv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

VZZOCIFIE DISECION

Comp. Syst.

Exr. Affairs KEl 51

Files & Com.M

15 du odl.se

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

VECE!/EO

Inspection .

Intell.

Laboratory

Legol Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

THEN 1 4 1976R00M

IPPROVED:

Dep. AD Adm

Asst. Dir.

Adm. Serv....

Ext. Affairse

Fin. & Pers

Tag. In

Idea Latht

nspection

Laboratory.

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. inv..

gaining.

TO BE HAND-DELIVERED BY THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS

TELETYPE UNIT

15.1.4.0d

3850 J0%

7 50953 DOCTO: 32195998

Page 2

---

## Page 3

This document is prepared in

response to

nation outside your

Committee.

Its

your Committee and the content may

use

not

nel without the express

approval of the

your

request and is

not for dissemi

limited to offirinl proceedings

by

be

disclosed to unauthorized person

FBI

ÓPTIÓNAL FÓRM NÓ. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES C

TANMENT

Memoranuum

SECREL

TO

Director, FBI (105-77667)

DATE:

6-28-62

FROM

SUBJECT:

Legal Attaché, Madrid (109-20) (RUC)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ROLANDO I.

CUBELA y SECADES

FPM - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT Sanitized 6MB-279.

9803-Rd6/94 2-9-945516)

EXCEPT BRACHES

to the Bureau 6-7-62.

Re Madrid letter 5-10-62 and 'Miami letter Jm 6-48-47

As stated in Madrid letter of 5-10-62,

pertinent information regarding subject was furnishe

the local station of CIA. au

Reference Miami letter to the Bureau reflects

that subject proceeded to Mexico prior to the time

Russian official MIKOYAN arrived in Mexico from Cuba

I was in contact with

who liant Entorman e

stated was reported to work for the U. S. Embassy in

[5)

vexico CIty. It is the recollection of Legat, Madrid.

) that

was

Fassigned to the CATu

AmerIcan linbassy in Mexico

and handled (Cubans? (STu)

It would aprear Chat CrY completely aware

of subject's activities and possible intentions to defect.

In view of the above, no further action appears

necessary by the Madrid Office, and this matter is con-

sidered RUC.

4994

Hassified by S803-Rad/gee

Declassity on: OADR(JFK,

4 - Bureau (1 - Liaison Section

1 - Miami, 109-471)

1 - Madrid

SWP : HD

REC +105-77667512

(5)

TEX 100

I ection

3-11-6.0

377

5.4 JUL 1 3 1962

5 JUL 5

1962

cleaned Steve tent ClA

this

sign 5125878

SECRET

NARDI

7 50953 DoCTA: 32195998

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

JUN1 81962

SECRET

Via.

TO:

FROM:

(Type in plain text or code).

AIRMAIL REGISTERED MAIL

This dooument is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

your contace and the content may not be disclosed

to unauthorized person

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (109-471) (P)

RE:

ROLANDO I. CUBELA Y SECADES

FPM - CUBA•

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TOL

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTE

RP 5/20/98

Re Miami letter to Bureau, 6/7/62.

except mm 761-S

Enclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies of letterhead

memorandum suitable for dissemination containing into obtained

FrOm MM 761-5,

Who Is MM TOL, and FronCARLOS

98-126 AvE Rege Park Queens

APEDINOS

Siroves

MM T-2,

in letterhead

NO

The info was

furnished on 6/11/62, to SA THOMAS H. Sour

ERRION at Miani, FLa. (MM 151-Sis a long time acquaintance

TEPEDINOS

and both are triends of CUBEL.

MM 7,61°S

advised that'the rother of deceased JOSE

ANTONIO ECHEVÁRRIA

(former head of the Revolutionary

Directory (DR),

anti-BATISTA rebel organization) came fron

Buresu

(Enc-12) (AM) (RM)

credit

Bart

(1 = Legate Paris)

• (1 - Leggs,

Bern (105-7))

Tand to

(1 • Logat, Madrid (109-20))

madried by

als.

1 New York (Info) (RM) (Enc-1)

• Washington Field (Info) (RM)

thirtes fo

1

• San Juan (Info) (RM) PEnc-1) he€- 6a

105-27664

3

• Miani

27

-12

(2 - 109-471)

ME JUN 2T 1362

(1 - 134-379 Sub A)

THE : mbs

Nich

(12)

TRIED EXCEPT

Approved:

Sent

9803-66

Declassily on:

DADA TA

Per

Special Agent in Charge

7TH 50953 DOCTO: 32195998

Page 1

---

## Page 5

MM 109=471

Co

L,made a trip to "Closter"

, Switzerland, for AVIGNON in 8/6078 (4)

no obtain info about some student conference, buy TEREDINO fun

was delayed in leaving and due to a mixup the person he

was supposed to contact upon arrival there did not show up,

so the trip was not a success.

TEREDINO

Stated that, as menticned above, he witho

cooperate in any way he can, but he does not wantESTEwArt

to think he isuoing something behind STEWART Elback in the C*

event STEwART should lesen of any proposed plan.: He was

that the infs that he furnished would be made available

to the proper federal Government agencies and his request

concerning STENAR puld also be furnished at the same time Ce

and that he would

advised should additional info be needed.

He stated that any additional info coming to his

attention would be immediately furnished.

TEPEDING stated

that he and MM 761-S had known each

other a

long time and that since(MM 761-S) lived in Miami and

TEPERINO was returning to New York City he would furnish

ul any info toM 761-s)who would, in turn, notify the FBI.

OBELA,

FBI in connection with his own previous activities on several

occasions in the past and would be able to make contact with

the FBI in such a mannar that the info could be passed to

the proper U.S. Government agency with the precaution taken

to protecte TEPEDINO and not risk jeopardizing: CUBELA'S C

chances for

escaping Cuba).

TEPEDING

vurished a business card of Tishmanand.

Lipp,

Sonner

9531 West 47th St New York 36-

On which he wrote his home phone

•TW 7-2843 hand his home

address

798-19-64 Ave., Rego

Park,

Queens,

N.Yu

=3 -

ITT 50953

DooTd: 32196998

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 109=471

Info copies are designated for New York, Washington

Fleld and San Juan Offices because of their interest in

current Cuban matters. Three extra copies are designated

for the Bureau for transmittal to the Legats, Paris, Bern

and Madrid.

For the additional info of the Bureau and Legat,

LAILS, IREDING asked whom he should contact in the event

of the receipt of emergency into while he was in Paris.

He was advised that it would be best to go to the American

Embassy and talk to someone in the Legal Attache's Office.

was not given any into indicating any connection

U between the Bureau and the Legal Attache.

Sozere

Prior to his departure for Europe, 6/22/62

can he contacted through the above home telephonekTW 7-9843

Subsequent to that date, he can be reached through the

" address &3. ROSENBLATT

20, chetraise Parte phone TA 1-17432

Miami Indices are negative reEPEDINO, however,

CIA, by letter classified SECRET, dated 10/27/59,

furnished

Info under the title "Cuban Government Agents Operating in

the United States" (forwarded by Bureau letter 11/10/59,

captioned, Repert of Cuban Intelligence Agents in the United

States,

IS • CUBA). This cormunication from CIA alleged

that a

"fairly reliable source" in Cuba reperfed that

MM 761-S had the reputation of beingta jewel smuggler with an

8(u)

expLained that CARLOS TEPEDINOperated the LaDiademaNCKJ(4)

and they had been 1

Friends X

suic

a result of his participation infused to help the wide off

Presidential Palace. XTEPEDINOS

W) MM 761-S, As a result, MM 75I-S severed all contact with

CTEPEDINO and became veryangry

vith him

Although angry,

MM 761-5 emphatically stated

TEPED INO was a legitimate whole. C

saleriewelerand was not engaged

Illegal activities. (Miami

1) report of SA THOMAS H. ERRION, 3/4/60;

captioned RICARDO

MADAN RIVAS, IS - CUBA, Bufile 97-3993)

.. 4.

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32195998

Page 6

---

## Page 7

OPTIONA! FORM NO: 10

3010-104

UNITED STATE:

MENT

Memora

wein

TO

Director, 87 (105-7667) SERGeR:

K

FROM

SUBJECT:

10/11/63

SAC, Miami (109-471) (C)

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y

IS - CUBA

(00: Miami)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION MADIO

SECADES

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT to des

KP 5/20/98

Remylet 9/11/62.

BHA excisions

except Mem 761-5

was, still working for CIA, but was disgusted with CIA because

they had not done what they had stated they would do when

they approached him in the first place.

subject had made a trip to Porto Alegre,

turned to Cuba, where he still was being operated by GIAN

etclin topeso

The above is for information of the Bureau and is

not being submitted in form suitable for dissemination since

this is a CIA operation and, also, dissemination could

lead to disclosure of(MM-761-S.)

C - Bureau (RM)

1 - Miami

THE : egh

(3)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

nation outside your Committee.

your Commiltre and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person..

nel without the express. approval of the FBI.

REC 14

ATE INPORMAATON

FORTHY

105.7166720

3

OCT 14 1963

Copy to.

by routing slip. for

I info.

I netion

date.

- 11

by:

Aris

22701 83-

2-22402

Clasal

Ah 98030

Declarry on:

bADA LIFK

!!!"

15308 0685D/KR

NAT.

S.4007 191063

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32195998

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Date:

No:

Fron:

Subject:

THE FOREIGN SERVIC

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy

Paris 8, France

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

• DECLASSIFICATION ASSOR

October 26, 1962

RELEASE OF GIA NORMATION.

BA THIS DOCUMENT Os Senitr

Directox; FBI (105-77667) 9502-104/gel 2-10-94 (57K)

Legat, Paris (105-1779) (RUC)

KP. 5/30/98

ROLANDO I. CUBELA

• SECADES

IS - CUBA

K

Re Paris letter 8/22/62.

Instant matter was discussed with

185) 1

Assistant Chief, Central Intelligence Agency (Can, a C

on October 23, 1952.

de advised that no information of

interest to the Bureau has been obtained by Cia, Paris

in captioned. matter.

He stated that they are aware

Bureau's interest and in the event they receive

thẻ

informtion

any

office.

of interest it will be furnished to this

FAETY I& UNCRASSTITED MACHES

3 - Bureau (1 - Liaison)

= Paris

NWP: 13

(4)

29094

5/30/9857

Crossie on 9803-lulgel

Declassily ou: bica

(ПК)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation nutside your Committee.

Its use is limited to

official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may

not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

REC- 28

105-91669-19

12 OCT 80 1562

INSEC,

54 N0V5

198

• SECREN

IT 50953

DorTd: 32195998

Page 8

---

## Page 9

that

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

„al Belmont

Mr • Mohr

• Mr .

DeLoach

on tro

Sullivan

I - Mr. Wannall

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Except TaKTION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNG! REC FIED EXCEPT

"NATIONAL SECUR

2/2/g4GMB

June 4, 1965

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctiona /KP1/20/97

1 = Mr. Cotter

I - Mi Nasca

PLANS TO ASSASSIKATE CUBAN LEADERS

1 - Mr. O'Brien

WHERE

JFK

11/25/97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668520/md

DECLASSIFY ON:

Ches sit

•On June 2, 1965, Victor Donindador Espinosa

Hernandez,. & Cuban relugee, was intorviowed at the New York

CLEy Offico of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Espinosa advised as follows:

On May 29, 1905, lo roturned to New Yorh City alter

spending twenty-sts days in lario, Franco, where he was in

contact with individuals involved in a plot to assassinate

Fidol Castro and other Cuban (overnment leaders.

the main

Eigure in this plot 1s kolando Cubela, a close Erlond of

Espinosa and

an intimate triend and current neichbor of

Firel Castro. Cubola is identical with tormer Major kolando

Lo Cubela y Secades, who has resigned from the armed forces

of Cuba and is nor practicing medicino in liavana. Alberto

Blanco, an employed of the Cuba Forcin Ministry, and Major

Juan Almoida Bosque are the other loading figures in this

plot.

le conferred in Paris for about ten days with

Alberto Blanco who was then on an inspection tour of Cuban

Embassies and Consulates abroad. lo learned that the plot

is directed toward the assassination of fidel Castro, his

brother kaul Castro, Ernesto "Che" Guevara, a Cabinet, member

In the present Cuban Government, and Kamiro Valdes, the Chief

ot the Cuban Intelligenco Sorvico. Tho assassination of these

individuala is to taio placo in public, possibly on July 20,

1965, when all the Cuban loadera would be together at the

annual July 26th celebration in lavana. After the assassination,

those involvod in tho plot hope to seizo the radio station

and call for Anorican hely. Cubola and othors associated

with his in this plot desiro to know whothor or not the

United Statos would holp if the plot sas succtsaful and if

105-131629

1 - 2-1821 (Espinosa)

SECRET

SEE NOTE PAGE TIO

- 105-77669 (Cubela)

*OUD

1 - 105-82793 (Almoida) Giclud

Prom automatio

FOB: js

downer

Hag and

(10)

docl

sadiscation

ERICATIPS

16 791:

IT 50953

DonTd: 32195998

Page 9

---

## Page 10

- SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

the United States would ho ready to give thie assistance at

a moment's notico as tho pioctora way be ablo to hold the

Covornment for only a day or two.

"le was in Spain for about twenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contactod other Cuban

calleg

and learned chat a nau names

Luno La inEXCIA

charga

The cuban exiled

do not trust

and allege he has been coupromised S

Spair for

200

encere, purnoss of letting in coutact

lie requested do bo put in contact with a representative

of the Central Intelligenco Agoney. who was thoroughly saailiar

with tho Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the

individuals involved in the plot.

NOTE:

Above Information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal

Security = Cuba.".

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

In a plan to bomb Cuba. Our investigation of this plat, which

was not & Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bombs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previouely

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders.

Almolda Bosque may be identical with person serving

as First Deputy Minister of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces.

Original of this memorandum boing sent to Attorney

General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to white liouse and Director, Central

SECRET

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TIREE

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32195998

Page 10

---

## Page 11

197

CLASSIFIED BY

5668

DECLASSIFY.ON: 25X

IT C

CO:

illie!

.M!.

This document is prepared in resporst

JUN 2 1005

SECRET

your Committre and the content n

nel without the express approval of the EBl

FBI NEW, YORK

may not be disclosed to unauthonzed person

A-JOURGENT 6-2-55 JLW

CIA HAS NO CELECTION TON

DECLASSIRICATION ANOID

TO DIRECTOR 141

.?-1821

• ENCODED

RELEASE DI

Cia

INFORMATION

FROM NEW -0243-603

4P

IN: THIS DOCUMENT AS SenD

AGHARA

9803-las/gel

48S

4710-9475516

Kp.1/20/97

Declassily

curity

VICTOR DOMINDADOR-ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ,

NEUSTRALITY MATTERS., IS - CUBA.

STE INPORMATTON CONNETMID

BEERZEN IS UNCLANE UDO CACHES

4CCE SHOWN OTHERNIES.

ESPINOSA APPEARED AT THE NEW YORK OFFICE ON

JUNE TWO, SIXTYPIVE

IN THE COMPANY OF

INS INVESTIGATOR EDWARD KAVAZANJIAN AND FURNISHED THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION. ••

ESPINOSA RETURNED TO NEW YORK ON FIVE IWENTYNINE LAST AFTER SPENDIN

TWENTYSIX DAYS IN F-RIS, WHERE HE VAS IN CONTACI WITH INDIVIDUALS

INVOLVED IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO AND LEADING CUBAN

GOVERNMENT PERSONALITIES.

ESPINOSA SAID THAT HE HAD RECEIVED A MESSACE

TO MEET IN FRANCE WITH ROLANDO CUBELA, WHO IS A LIFE LONG FRIEND OF

ESPINOSA AND IS ALLEGED TO BE THE MAIN FISURE IN THE PLOT.

CUBELA

IS IDENTICAL WITH FORMER MAJOR ROLANDO LO CUBELA Y' SEGADES, WHO IS

INTINGS FRIEND OF FIDEL CASTRO. ESPINOSA FURTHER STATED THAI,

ES CONFERRED IN PARIS FOR ABOUT JEN DAYS WITH ALBERTO BLANCO, WHO IS

CE: TOTED WITH TWI

MINISTRY AND WAS ON AN INSPECTION

TOL: OF THE CUNOT RECORDEDS AND CONSULATES ABROAD. ESPINOSA SAID THAT

1965

HE DAD NO PRIOR KNOWLEDGE OF THIS PLOT AND VENITO PARIS ON

THE

NORAIN 855-579

END PACE ONE.

135: 2-300. 8006:

$

1665

313

510

- unresen

TUJUNISS555529;5-99667; 105-82793

SECRET

HH 50953 DooId: 32195998

Page 11

---

## Page 12

PAGE TWO

SECRET

URGING OF CUSELA, WHO HAS BEEN A LIFE-LONG FRIEND OF HIS. HE ALSO

STATED THIE INVOLVED IN THE PLOT WAS MAJOR JUAN ALMEIDA BOSQUE.

SPINOSA SAID THAT CUBELA HAD RESIGNED FROM THE ARDED FORCES OF CUBA

AND IS NOW PRACIICING MEDICINE AT THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL IN

HAVANA AND HAS A"HOME ADJACENT TO FIDEL CASTRO-S AT VARADERO

BEACH• ESPINOSA ALSO ADVISED THAT HE WAS IN SPAIN FOR ONLY ABOUT TWENTY

HOURS

WHERE HE CONTACTED OTHER CUBAN EXILES AND LEARNED THAT

(s)

WHO IS IN CHARGE

•WAS COGNIZANT TO A

CERTAIN DEGREE OF THIS PLOT, BUT THAT THE CUBANS DID NOT TRUSTI

BECAUSE THEY CLAINED HE HAD BEENCOMPROMISED BY A CUBAN GIRL,

WHOS

NICKNAME WAS "POTAN, NO A BEEN SENT FROM HAVANA FOR THE SPECIES

sentines

ffee

PURPOSE OF GETTING IN CONTACI WITH

THIS INDIVIDUAL IS

POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH

ESPINOSA ADVISED THAT THE PLOT CALLS FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF

FIDEL CASTRO, RAUL CASTRO, ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA AND RAMIRO VALDES.

THE ASSASSINATION OF THESE INDIVIDUALS IS TO TAKE PLACE IN PUBLIC SO

THAT EVERYONE CAN SEE THAT THE LEADERS HAVE BEEN KILLED. THE PLOTTERS

¡HOPE TO SEIZE THE RADIO STATION AND CALL FOR AMERICAN HELP. ESPINOSA

SAID "HAT CUBELA AND OTHERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PLOT DESIRE TO KNOW

END PACE THO

SECRET

7 50953 DOCTO: 32195998

Page 12

---

