# 124-10326-10098

## Page 1

124-10326-10098

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10326-10098

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-99724-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

KEAY

TO : BELMONT

DATE: 06/10/1953

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HN 50953

DooId: 32313170

Page

1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO, BA

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

SECRET

FROM

SUBJECT:

MR. A. To Be

BELMONT

seay pot f

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCI

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM JAMES ANGLETON

DATE: JUne 10, 1953

Tolson -

Ladd

Nichola

Belmont i

Gearty

Aohe....

Winterrowd w

Tele. Room

Holloman —

1o in charianed the got to eat a gene a to te

Intelligence division of Cla. During past year he has been very

cooperative and has volunteered voluminous information of interest

• to Bureau. At the present time he more or less falls in category!

of Confidential Informant. In order to handle his material in a hon

ejficient and secure manner,

It is being recommended that a control

file be created.

Section Chiefs are also being alerted regarding the

handling of information received prom angleton (U)

1-1

RECOMMENDATIONS:

It is recommended that the attached memorandum be.

disseminated to all section Chiefs of the Domestic Intelligence

Division, which sets forth instructions concerning the handling

of information transmitted to the Bureau by Angleton.

7-26-98

CIA HA? 1. 21.

OFC!

1"0

created which will

Angleton furnishes the Bureau.

the file in numerical order and it will not be necessary

to inder

the names.

It is suggested that this

Intelligence Agency - James Angleton.

"file be entitled,

"Central.

10/

Classi

Declass

DADR GiA. 1783-1826

•ALl IN MEATLON CONTAINER

HERE TO TICHASIK

UTHE ETISF

DETAILS:

James Angleton, a CIA official, is in charge of a section

preferred to do Special Project CORD A PEt of CAlS 21eign

XX(4)

WiS 1201

JUI, 12 1953

Attachment

1 - It. Hed 5-6 JUN 23 1959

SE

24

- Ar. Wannall

HW 50953

DocId: 32313170 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memo to Mr. Belmont

SECRET

Re:

Central Intelligence Agency

Information Received from James

Angleton

• Intelligence division.

Angleton handles special cases of a various

nature and he is usually given considerable freedom and

leeway in

directing the operations of his unit.

In general, he is responsible

only to the Director of CIA. We has numerous foreign sources and

channels for develonina information.

The primary source is the

In addition to this,

he is in contoct with

who periodically makes available to Angleton copies

Of reports which

has received from

representatroco o

are associated with the

Lahout the world. These representatives

which is sub-

sidized bu the CIA. Analeton also has indedendent sources

On occasio he utilizes

Some of the men

under his control are on various

foreign assignments in Eurone and

are responsible only to him. Most of them are traveling

During the past several months Angleton has been very

cooperative with the Bureau.

He has volunteered voluminous infor

mation of interest to the Bureau and he has followed Bureau leads

in an effective manner.

Much of the information which angleton

has furnished appears

in the raw form

that is, it consists of the

actual reports received from Angleton's sources. This has been of

advantage because the Bureau has been in a position to better evaluate

the information instead of waiting for the delay and processing through

normal channels in the CIA. In addition to information regarding

security matters furnished by Angleton, he has also been of valuable

assistance by keeping the Liaison Agent apprised of administrative

changes and reorganization within the CIA. Angleton is thoroughly

informed regarding the foreign intelligence activities of his agency

and he frequently clarifies matters which the CIA sometimes camouflages

For your information, Angleton was instructed by General

Walter Bedell smith, while he was still Director of the CIA, Lto

cooperate fully with the bidison Agent and was told that ne,

Angleton, could disseminate any information he saw fit. This policy

has continued under Allen Dulles.

Since the volume of information received from Angleton

has increased the Liaison Agent has endeavored

to encourage Angleton

to establish some uniformity in the dissemination of information to

(4)

И)

-2-

SECRET

HW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEU

Memo to Mr. Belmont

Re: Central Intelligence Agency,

Information Received from James

Angleton

he Bureau, particularly with regara to that information which n

receives from

•Angleton is noi

furnishing the Liaison Agent blank memoranda unich are dated,

captioned, and which carry a control number; for example, "SPl."

This number will serve as a ready reference when some question

comes up within the Bureau or the CIA.

The Liaison Agent will make

an appropriate notation on each memorandum indicating that the

documents emanate from Angleton.

up a control file containing a copy of each document furnished by

Angleton.

effected in handling reports received from

They can be done ta manner allen ta, the arrangement

"n Usew of the above,

Angleton more or less falls into

the category of a Confidential Informant. He furnishes informatio

of a sensitive nature and it is, therefore, believed that when

asseminating nos data, ne

should be protected as a source.

Up to

date supervisors have been

handling this information in a secure

manner; however, since the volume

of dato received from Angleton

has increased,

it is believed desirable to alert all Section Chiefs

regarding the

handling of information received from Angleton.

SECRET

1H 50953

DocId: 32313170

Page 4

---

