# 124-90062-10010

## Page 1

124-90062-10010

JFK Assassination System

Idenuification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90062-10010

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-88511-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

BN

HQ

DATE: 06/06/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MARVIN KANTOR

PHILLIP GERALD ROSEMBLUM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USA, CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO, INC RPT, REFERRED TO USA

19.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32327312 Page 1

---

## Page 2

9

•0.

5!

6

STATES GO

Memoran

TO

FROM

/tesat, Bonn (105-1222)

phi

SHEN BLATE:

6-6-61

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

9-1

SUBJECT:

PHILLIP GERALD ROSENBLUM

IS - R - DENMARK

i/!.

üch

Re Bonn letter 3-30-61 and London letter 4-26-61.

* /

Enclosed for the additional information of the Bureau

is one copy of a Secret report dated 3-28-61 prepared by FRANK P.

DIERICKX of the 513th Military Intelligence Group.

This report

reflects the results of the interrogations of the Subject by DIERICKX.

It was received under Secret classification from the Collection

Branch,

Int

elligence Division, Headquarters, United States Army,

Europe.

(U) DECLASS PER ARmY ON 10-22-97

the Embassy has

Informed this office that the Subject did in fact

contact the Danish Embassy in Bonn shortly after his call at the

Embassy and conversation with Mr. AARON COLEMAN.

According to

She Danish Embassy Informed the Subject that he would be

liable to arrest if he returned to Denmark.

Mr.(

has alsos

Informed me that a member of his staff observed the Subject in the

area of the American Housing Development in Bad. Godesberg, Germany

on approximately May 1, 1961.

Mr • AARON COLEMAN, Chief of the Consular Affairs Section

of the Embassy, has also informed me that he had observed the Subject at

approximately the same time and that the Subject was then engaged in

contacting American residents in the project in an effort to sell

mutual fund bonds.

9740%6

SLO RSE

1-15-9815516

pq.

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASCCIFATION AND/OR,

RELEANE US CIA INFORMATION

EXCoOT BRACILTS

3. ON shis

N THIS DOCUMENT. (58/V0-10-92

In order to establish, If possible, the precise current

residence of the Subject, this office is requesting the West German

Security Agency - Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BFV) to attempt

to locate

effort.

ENCLOSURE

P

4 - Bureau

(Exc

1 - Bonn

GAV : HB

REC - 16

1055151-23

I1 JUN 8 1961

1 Photo made of

ench. 6 / 16/61

2c btry Photostat

7 euel seit to

It tros to nts

SEC.

8 JUN 201961

Filary

SECRETAR

HIST

50953 DooId: 32327312 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIGIED

DATE 1218

194 B/2

ROSEMBLUM, Phillip Gercla-(5)

2OB:

29 October 1935

POB:/

St. Louis, Missouri

31-1404

28 March 1961

ETE 090 891

On 25 March 1961, this agent hold a discussion with Phillip Gerald ROSENBLUM

in Roóm 103, Savoy Hotel, Wiesenhuettenstrasse L2, Frankfürt/Main-

SUBJECT's girl-

friend, Ursula Bussfeld,

was alno present. SUBJECT and Bussfeld had stopped over

night in Fransfurt while enroute from Heilbronn to Dortmund.

The discussion between

this agent, SUBJSCT and Bussfeld was substantially as follows:

BUSEN

Agentg

As I told you yesterday, I have no objections if Ursule/participates

this discussion.

However, you may have some objections; and I leave the

matter. entirely up to you.

Germony

SUBJACT, No, I have no objection if Urgula is here.

Denmark

Agent

You will recall that after you were interrogated, I mentioned to

you that we would investigate your case and that this investigation wold

take two or three montha.

SUBJBOr:

Yes.

Agent

Well, thede two mouths are past, and we did conduct an investigation

don't know Le Meier C1lmore told you that contacted Me onel

cans, or not but wote Me..

wor asa-ciscuss with ain your contacts with thor

Reedend am popenhagen.

the Presencg of Unsula.

Moveovat, he stated you discussed this matter 1

That is why I had no objections if Ursula 1s

present during this discussion, since the knows about the whole matter

anyway:

Yes,

I dincussed this with Ursula when I got back, and she reminded

Kumn.

I had forgotten about it.

You will also remember that during the interrogation I told you I was hot

primarily interested in obtaining evidence for your prosecution but rether

in the anguisition of information concorning the Soviet Intelligence Seri

vice - how Khriatchkov spotted you, recruited you, what ascigaments he gave

you, and what pay you

received from him. That is still the way I feel, but

my investigation also took me to Copenhagen, where of course I hod liatoon

about this case with the Danish authorities.

The, Danes know about the

whole

cass, gave, them a copy of my roport . and thy feel entirely dif

ferent about your activities in Copenhagen.

They are nore interested in

prosecuting you.

As a matter of fact, they told ne that if you so much as

set one foot over the border into Denmark,

they-ll arrest you and try you

for saptonege.

This Information may be shocktie to you, but I think if you

consider t you win he glad I gave it to you

COPY 30F -

6 COPIÉS

SECRET

PAGE. 1 OF 5 PAGES

FRANK P. DIERICKY, 513th MT Group

§SG -E REG. No

25.1

7TH 50953 DOrId: 32327312

Page 3

6/

---

## Page 4

SECRET

20 MAR 1961

ROSENBLUM, Phillip Gerald (S)

DOB: 29 October 1935

POB: St. Louis, Missouri

HE 090 891

was in Copenhagen? Well, time was valuable. Also, when I needed money, and this

you won't believe. I am somewnat resourceful in time of need. Whenever I got short

of money, which was on three occasions, I took a trip to Travemunde, Germany.

where they had a gambling cacino. Need I say more? I have a system, even though

not infallible, that has paid off opportunately at least, to say the very least. It is a

simple system.

I merely play the same numbers. For example, you can take a

series of six numbers and play it 21 times in a row... I am quite aware that statistics

have proved that no system has ever been devised that can beat roulette and baccarat,

but thie oyatem has always performed for me in time of need.... Nile Prahm was with

Money playing pool:

ine the tau tris, At that die I won about 750 dollage piar verouene. leave mole

I won 200 and some dollars from Harry

riend of mine now.

He lives at Beatevej i. He is a supervicer for Olivetti, With

the money I won, I bought the car.

The car cost a little more than $500,00. I

bought it from Steve/stanford, an American who was a representative for Libby's Can

Company. He is back in California; he lives in San Eranciaco. I also won about

$400. 00 on another occasion--at Travemunde--with Murray Brown, an American who

is a writer.

went the third time about March of April 1960 with three people: Murray

rown; Marvin antor, who in from New

York,' studying Rusalan and Danish at the

University of Copenhagen; the third was Tom--I can't think of his last name.

An APPALE

103

-1936

4550

The car was

stolen from me in October or November of 1959. I paid

$500. 00 for

the

car,

but it was insured for more-actually for about $1, 500. 00, but

thesed for 2. 000. 00.

It was insured with the Zurich Insurance Company."

OVIC

Travels

aky

"'I have visited many countries over here:

¡France.

A number of times. May 1957, twice in '59, and

twice in 160. The purpose--touriém.

England. 57. Passing through actually.

"Holland: One time in 57, Tourism. And in *59 on business.

when I was working for Mainland. I had an agent in Holland. I'd have to check his

name. It's a very difficuli name. He was a Venezuelan of Dutch descent.

"Belgium. In 157. Passed through on way to Germany. My ship

went to Le Harve, and then I went by train through Belgium, Germany and on to

Denmarla:

FRANK P. DIERICKX, 513ch MI Group

SECRET

._ OF...

PACE 4. OF CaL PAGES

HH 50953 DocId:32327312 Page 4

---

