# 124-90135-10274

## Page 1

124-90135-10274

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90135-10274

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82298-NR

- Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

SA

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

49.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32336879

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

210904

Much!

AN INTORMATION CONTATED

HEREIN IG USCLASSIOIAD

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

91157989m

OTHERWISE

"GRE

3/15/61

So:

Lindaey Ling

I9 m.03

pell

4/15/98

LTR. OTD.

NO PRELLAS IN PAOT

213/gef 508.

TOTAL REM

SACEp

₴

Sor

Antonio

Lieslassify on: OADR 1/24/83

New

York

CLASSIFIED BY S668 5L0/GCL

Can Franeieco

DECLASSIFY ON: 25%

Diractory.

FDI (105-94905)

(9712) 12118798

afte

CLASSIFIED BY 16922 MeNP/De uNtio

EXEMPI FROM GOS CATEGORK

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

Deparinent

or Al: Foroe by lotier dated 3/2101 requestee

Cutteryes Menoves

Sen Anconto file 205-2128

Araml 1120

105021024

Đi/776 205 82298,

bo Interuloned re emptioned aubject.

Menoyo fe a dejected Costro offiolal who la being intem

viend by Son Antonto Office,

Is was reportedly a communtan and shtle

cloining to bo involvod in anti-Cocoro achlosties wich Milltan Lorgon»

Cootro leader and solator of fortune recondly exocuted by Coatro

governments

Lienoyo notually

plot to overthroo dastro.

Morayed i learneon Manollo and betro

Alr Fores adulord intonsation was

poeted from can that

according

Senoyo had contaesee end

captioned

oubjeet in late Augusi, 7900, an Sando Meric,

the Aeprese

Aly Force contirued subject currently residon in Lodrid mers he

nonoges & reoccurom altogeady ouros by anocher unidentifies tasnaae.

uno reportedly hag supplled cloching to O. S, perconel

ad tajee Base

in the AaordS:

Subject le onc of several Chinese suspected of voing

Dustnese vonduras do couer for dapionage of other illegal ocolatter

Al? Toroe adulada further that OIl Jurntahed Infornaton that one

1/RG 0d09

Keina Mioners

Ezsinans assoolate

of the aullaces

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

115-82

2 - Tokyo

RELEASE UN CIA INFORMATION

2

= Madrid

12054074)

NOT RECORUND

IN THIS DOCUMENT,

* Paris

(205-22561

2 - Miant

EVLOPT FOLL BRACKOS DUPLICATE.

MAR 17 1961

5-11-98

1 - Foreign Licison

HE MAN INTONET FOr

VELLAH

510)e5t ;16

120

OMAR 82 1961 163

SECRE

• 105-82208 (Eloy Guûterrea Menoyo)

NOTE FAGE FOUR

NH 50953 DocId: 32336879 Page 2

7, HUNT

---

## Page 3

Ласса

zuchl

Foreign 2,3

AS INTORMATTON CONTACUSp:

HEREIN IC LALAGS TIED

EXCEPT WIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

91157989m

3/15/62

alrtel

C, RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

esines

tilge

1'08

SACE,

San Antonto

assily on: OADR 4/29/83.

2

vite

New

Yorl

CLASSIFIED BY 5448 540 GCL

San Franciaco

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Direedor, 2DI (205-94085)

(5712) 12118198

KIND hind-sey,

ala

IDI Bian-shus

CLASSIFIED BY 6922

Lindsey

ling Yeh

EXEMPI FROM GDS CATEGORY

T,3

IS - 01

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFIALTE

PARASITER

415/98

LTR, OTD.

that

Eloy

205m2202,

deparinent of Air Force by fetter Cated 3/2/02 requeated

overres denoye, can Anconso fare 105-2180%

Miant file

Burtle 205402296,

be interutened re coptloned subject.

Henoye 1g

defected Castro offlola? who da being inter

by son Antonto Offlee.

. Le was reportedly a concunist and chile

olatning to be involved in anti-daddro octloities mich wiltan organs

Contro leader and aoldier of fortuno recently encouted oy comere

governnents

plod to overthrota coetro.

smay notually metroyed a dominican amello aster

Alr Foroe adulaed information was

arcelved fron CIA that

cocording

captloned subject in late August, 1960, In Santo Varia, the Arores.

Air Force continued cubject currently resides in ladrid were he

manages e restourant allegedly ouned by another unidentified Chinese

uho reportedly has supplied clothing to U, S. personel as tajes Bese

in the Azored.

Subject le one of several Chinese auspected of vaing

business ventures de cover for esplorage or other illegal sottoltles.

Air Force adoised further that CIA furniahed Information that on

Theodor

Beins Wieners

a lustrens associote of the mubject,

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 7O

DECLASSIRCATION AND/OR,

2 = Tokyo

* Madrid

(105 575)

• Pardo (205-22

RELEASE UP CIA INFORMATION

NOT RECORDID

EVCEPT FOR BRACKESDUPLICATER /ELLOW

1 - Foreign Liaison

MERE 5 OMAR 2'' 1961 63 0

SECRE

(JFK)

m. 205-82298 (Eloy Gutierrea Menoyo)

BY NOTE FAGE 200K

ATHT

70953

DooId: 32336879 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Airtel to SAC, San Antonio

Re?

LING Lind sey, aho

(105-04985)

SECRET

arrested. in the Agores December, 1958, on suspicion of espionages

As of september, 1960, Wiener, according to GIA, was reported to be

in Bermuda, unore subject eventually intenas to

to explore

PARAI

possibility of estcblishing.o.restaurant

Air: Force hos requested Henoye be questioned concerning

nature and extent of his association with subjeet ond other Chinese

for any informatton which may disclose espionage and/or other illegal

actibities affecting Alr Force interests.

It was further requested

Menoyote possible association with Mener also be explored. (

21(12)

following information; classified

By Pro dod 1/62 Regar, Pres Purines tubject

which was received from

the French Foreign Intelligence and Counter.

espionage service:

subject was born 3/12/19 at Cheklong, Chine. His

wife is su-chuel Live uno arrived in Europe by air from

New Tork on 12/13/60 and proceeded to Madrid, spain.

New York addresse

as of Octobers

1960, was in care of michel

Bernier, 514 Best 110th Street,

New York Citye

Subject has established a clothing business in

where he works on Americon bases.

Ne is a repres

sentative of lang Chong and Company, Custom Tailore, Second

Floor, oilian Bulldinge

Lottingen Streets Hong Kong. The

subject is in close businese relations with Samuel on Mingechun

and both are members of a financial organization established

by the authorittes of Feople"s Bank at Shanghat for the purpose

of obtaining capital of Chinese living abroad and chareling

these funds back into chind,

The subject is known to have been in contact wich

Heine theodor Wiener uno reportedly vas arrested on o

seoret bose in the A2070S.

The Hong Kong

fien, long Chong and Company,

reported to have established a bank establishment in

San Francisco during the early pard of 1960 knoun as

Iangchong and Company, Bank of canton, 555 Montgomery streety

Son Francisço 22, Callfornto

Although there is no apparent connections

it is interesting

to note that the name Michael Bernier, 514 West 120tk Strect.

New Fork

City»

appears in the case of Wormen Ar Salyed (Sufile 65-66330).

saiyed clained that wnile working for soutet intelligence in the

SECR

HH 50953 DOCTO: 32336879

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Airtel to SAO, Son Antonio

Reg

LING Lind-sey, ahe

(105-94985)

United Stocess

he was used os a spotter and in this copseity spotted

lichael Bernier, 514 Meat 110th Sereet.

New York City. This inforne

tion was furniched by Cin which has conducted extensive and penetruting

interview of Saiyed abroads

The information furnished by saiyed has

been diacounted because he not only is an admitted fraudulent check

passere

a730

• self-admitted fabricator of intelligence infor

mot & one

By letter dabed 2/23/61, Legot, Madrid, furnished the

following information received from OSt,

clossified "secret,

* спо

bearing the notation "special handling reguired, not relecuable to

foreign nationals

PARAS. 12,

DECLASSIRTEO

Close monitorings of activities of certoin Chinese

merchants in spain disclose they are sending American dollors

to Red Chino.

The chinese merchant in Madrid, Lindsey Ling,

has canitted this ond it

is knoin that San On of Boragona hea

beer sending Americon dollars to Communist Chirde

30(22)

Legat, Paris, letter 2/22/61 furnished Jollowing information

rocelved from French Moreign Intelligence and Counterespionage Scruice,

classified "Secret"

Meins Theodor Wiener, a confederate of the subject,

Is apporently a Cernon and roportadly nus ar

secret bane in the Asaress Decomber, 1950(5) -ed 08 d

LING, uno left New York and arrived

in Europe on

12/13/60, traveled uio "Iberia Air Lines. '(S)

San Antonio de instructed to prompily

interview Menoyo re

captloned subject ac requested by Air Force and submit results without

delay in letterhead memorandim®

San Franciseo should promptly subnit ony information

tt has

obtained re Langohong and Company, Bank of Cantony 555 Montgomery

streets)

New Tork should promptly submit results of ite

investigation

regarding lichael

Bernier, oka, Michel Bernier, 514 West ll0th streets

New Toch City Ch

Legat,

sonyo, promptly suonit results of inquiries re Long

Chone and Compant. long Kong-C

All ofyices should subnit results of investigation in letter

Read memorandum.

Furnish Bureau with nine copies.

SECRET

+3-

ITT 50953

Doc1d: 32336879

Page 5

---

