# 124-90102-10239

## Page 1

124-90102-10239

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90102-10239

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-258736-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/31/1974

•PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS:

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HY 50953

17

DocId: 32332592

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-253 (Rev. 8-7-72)

FEDERA!.

BUREAU OF IN "ESTIGATION.

iEt

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

LaTE

7/31/74

INVESTIGATIVE FERIOD

3/15/71-7/15/74

REPORT MADE EY

PA HAS TO OB'ECTION TO

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

TYPED EI

t hm

D50.1

÷ 2ND/OR

FORMATTON RACTER OF CASE

ACCION CUBANA

IN THIS DUUMENT. EXCOP1 BRACKETS

(CUBAN ACTIO:) (56) KP 1-27-48

IS → CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTER;

EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARY DEVICES

REEBRENCPS:

LEAD

Miami report of SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.- 3/14/74.

Bureau letter to Miami, 3/25/77.

Bureau airtel to Miami, 6/17/74.

Miami airtel to Bureau, 6/7/74.

M1.r.

3-6-48

PTY: 5608 5101852-

maicines i

Classlijed by.

Declashity on: GADR(J57C)

NY SJINK

MEXKO, BUENOS AIRES, CARACAS

PARIS, MADRID, OTTAWA

MIAMT

JFK)

FLORIDA

INFURAT LOG CONTAINED

AN AS UNCLASSIFIED

SHORN

• AT MIAMI

TOR INFO S/24/2Y BY VHN/rm.

Will continue to investigate activities of ACCION CUBANA

in order to identify members and to determine if this organization is

CONVIC.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

• NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES INO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

WES ENO

FPPROVED

COPIES MADE!

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

treau (105-258736) (RM1)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-238 736-|

(Additional Copis Cover Page B)

AUG 5 1974

3-Miami

(2- 10521947)

(1- 105- 2856) (ORINIDO 305CH)

Dissemination Record of Attached Repert

Notatiens

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

53 AUG 2 6 1970

A.

COVER PAGE

Bec's made akHaip 4 fa SSC-I revieur

at. F-BIHQ jer Vegast 7 6013 (3a)

4861433 213/72

HW 50953

DocId: 32332592

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-21947 :

Copies Made (continued)

1- U.S. Secret Service, Miami

(RM)

I- NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

(RM)

1- 109th MeI. Group, Miami

(RM)

1-

) (RM)

1- U.S. Coast Guard, Miami

1- U.S. Border Patrol, Miami

1- U.S. Customs, Miami

(RM)

(RM)

(RM)

1- INS, Miami

(RM)

1- OSI, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida (RM)

LEAD (continued)

involved in any violations of law or other activities inimical

to the U.S. and will attempt to locate and apprehend its leader.

ORLANDO BOSCH, as soon as possible.

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report is classified Canfidantial in order to

protect confidential sources.

INFORMANIS

¼MM T-1 is MM 1337-S.

MM T-2 is MM 1550-KS.

MM I4 is NK 5173-PSI®

B.

COVER PAGE

SECRED

man:+ - 0555-803

HW 50953

DooId: 32332592

Page

---

## Page 4

ECRET

FD-204 (Syev, 3-3-59)

CONTE

UN

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

I-U.S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida (RM)

1-NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

(RM)

1-109th M.I.GrOup, Miami, Florida

(RM)

1- INS, Miami (RM)

1- OSI, Patrick Air Forc

Base, Florida (RM)

1

Florida

(PM)

Copy 10:

1-J.S.Coast

Guard, Miami, Florida

I-U.S.Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

1-U.S.Customs, Miami, Florida

Report of:

Date:

(RM)

(RM)

(Rii)

Office:

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

Miami, Florida

July 31, 1974

Field Office File #:

105-21947

DECLASSIFICAT OU AND

CHA HAS NO OR REC TOASTO

105-258736

Title:

ACCION CUBANA

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

(CUBAN ACTION) (AC)

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT ThE BRACKETS ABOVE

OTHERWISE

KP. 1-27-98

Character:

INIERNAL SECURITY - CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTER;

EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARY DEVICES

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

Synopsis:

ALE. INFORHATION CONTAINED

Information set forth concerning alleged members of ACCION

CUBANA.

6/18/74 issue of "The Miami News" carried article

by reporter HILDA INCLAN concerning interview of ORLANDO BOSCHI

AVILA, who claimed to be leader of ACCION CUBANA and claimed

No conder on

responsibility for acts of terrorism including bombing of Cuban

Consulates in Latin America, as well as other acts of violence.

Miami newspaper "Diario las Americas" received letter from

ACCION CUBANA Offering sum of three million dollars for assassi

nation of FIDEL CASTRO. ACCION CUBANA also announced sale of

bonds for purpose of raising three million dollars to carry on

its activities. On 6/25/74, U. S. Board of Parole, Washington,

D.C., issued warrant charging BOSCH with violating terms of his

parole. Efforts under way to locate and

apprehend BOSCH.

3-6-98

-P-

CLASSITED BY: 5668 SID IKSR

5/23/05

Classified

by 5668 S4B/GCL

( C)

LOLASSIF/ ON: X

Declassify ON DADR /(STE)

(JFK)

SOURCES WHOSE IDENTITIES ARE CONCEALED

HEREIN HAVE FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORIALION

IN THE PAST EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE NOTED.

are so une dioribited the de you endations nor conclusios ECRisTi

sis the property of the fil and is loaned to your agency: it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

•I S, COVERNHENT

PRINTING

OFFICE: 1970

€-706-947

NH 50953 DocId: 32332592 Page 1

---

