# 124-90146-10092

## Page 1

124-90146-10092|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90146-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BR

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/11/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NY 50953

31

DocId: 32339260

Page 1

---

## Page 2

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSI SATION AND/UR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONzector, FBI (97-4603)

ON THIS DOCUMENT,

ASSANITIZED

10/11/63

Legat, Bera (105-246). (P)

AII INFOR A 2ZOM CONTATNED

HEREIN IS WUOLS"STITED EXCEPT

WHERE SHORN OTHERWISE.

AFRICAN REVOLUTION

RA * AFRICA

CONEIDENTML

Ro New Yorks airtel to the Bureau dated 9/13/63.

Enclosed

dated 10/11/63. *11 13

, are 8 copies of & letterhead nemorandur

ceonested that

tho informon de classified Confidential,

have propsoly also Iuralshed this

information to cla locatty

Extra copies of this letter

and letterhead memo

rendus are subnitted fer the Bureau and New York for the

tile on RICHARD TIOMAS GIBSON. (Bufile 105-93072).

Results of additionnl inguiries on captloned

matter will be reported when received.

4

On

Bureau (Encl. 8)

(1 - Idaison) (Encl.)

(2 - New Tori) (105 60683) 10542367)

2 - Bern

(1 - 105-248)

JC/Minis

(8)

PRIATE ACENC

D OTTICES

STING

12

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 S40/GCE

DECLASSIFY O 252 FEE, 919198

Catcrory

3/16/78

1105-93072-

AND

ADVISED

SLIP

DA INE

102 ост

NOT RECORDED

ENCIOSU!

2132196 SoS MROGAT CONFIDENT.

• 18 1963

Dac

(FR)

4 ОСТ 23 1963

119

1803-

ORIGINAL FILED IN

ITT 50953

DonTd: 32339260

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONE DENTIAL

UN. TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF /USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

October 11, 1963

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEOLARS"

CATION AND/OR,

RELLAOL OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. IM 6/24/98

ARE INTORMARLON CONTAMER

EXONEXISTENOVISE.

• DIERWISE

AFRICAN REVOLUTION

a confidential source abroad,

has advised

that the publication

"African Revolution" wag created by the

Algerian Front of National Liberation. Its English language

edition is published in switzerland.

There have been several

changes in the editorial composition and polley of "African

Revolution" recently, according to I-l.

Following a dis-

agreenent with BEN BELLA, JACQUSS CAMELS VIRUSS, the

editor of the publication, was disnissed fron his functions.

VIRGES is an Algerian national who was born Harch 6, 1925.

His place as editor was taken by MOHAMED HARBI,

forner

Secretary General of the Algerian Ministry of Foreign

Affalrs:

Since HARBI became editor, the editorial policy

has changed and the June, 1963, issue of "African Revolution"

indicated that the Journal is now closely reflecting BEN

BELLA's policy and attempting

to pronote

a more Algerian

image.

Although VERGES is no longer connected with the

Algerian venture, he continues to publish the English digest

of "African Revolution" from Lausanne, Switzerland.

The

July, 1963,

Issue was rotitled "AriCa,

katin knerica, Asla

Revolution."

The phrose "the third world," which is now in

vogue among VERGES'S group to describe the underdeveloped

nations of Africa, South America and Asia, indicates the

scope of the magazine in its new form.

I-L described this

publication

vith whích

. VERGES iS presently connected

communist.

Tud

members of

the Lausanne office of the "African

Revolutions have renained loyal to VIRGES alter

he was

replaced by HARBI.

They are FREDY GILBERT NIUS

ANDERSSON,

& Swedish national who was born on February 14

1033,

Lausanno, and RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON, a United

States

in

citizen

who was

born May 13, 1931, in Los Angeles

"SOSMANERT

Caise

Dory

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP

CLASSIFIED BY 5668510 6CL

Exclude

downgrad

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Joclasses

om automatic

and

ntion

5761988/19198

5, 1258

11X78

NH 50953 DocId: 32339260

Page 3

---

## Page 4

c. *

CONCIDENTIAI

10JO3

ANDERSSON apparently heads the office of the

Lausanne edition of "African Revolution" with officos at

10-11 Metropole,

Lausanne

He ts also editor-secretary of

"Societe Cooperative Clartee Editions."

CIBSON has V. S, Passport No. B-131994 which was

lasued at Mashiagton, D, C. on danuary 2° born July 12, 1926,

16 JOY MARJORID GIBSON, nee KAYE, who was

in London.

She is a British subject, carries British pass

port C156546,

and ts also a journalist.

She resides 1n

Lausarine at I7 Escaliers du Marche, where she arrived fron

Algeria in late April 1903 (this also is presumably

residence of her husband, RICIAND THOMAS GIBSON ONCE

According to T-1, VIRGES has been denied permission

to enter Switzerland.

the case against ANDERSSON is stil

pending (probably relating to whether or not he will be

allowed to remain

in Switzerland).

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

has been refused a Swiss resident's permit and has been

ordered to depart

from Switzerland before December 15, 1963

This document contains neither recommende

tions nor conclusions of the FBI.

• It 18

the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

CONFIDENTIAL

SHOD ECO

20

HH 50953 DOrTd: 32339260

Page 1

---

