# 124-10224-10266

## Page 1

124-10224-10266

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10224-10266

HQ

61-10448-19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/23/1948

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

TOLSTOY FOUNDATION, ASSOC, REL, BKG, FINANCES,

VISA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32298986

Page 1

---

## Page 2

633A

3,526

# 1 90-18-400-5328

DECLASSITIT

OFFICE OF THE LEGAL ATTACHE

PARIS, FRANCE

august 23, 1948

SECRET

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINLO

Director, FBI

IPHPIN IS UNCLE

ITILD

DATE 526 64 Y

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/ORE:

GOUNT IVAN (JRAN) TOLSTOY (TOLSTOI);

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

NICHOLAS GALITZIN

(SK)

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

• LYDIA GALITZIN

CLASE, & EXT. BYSA-LESK-DL

KP 11-17-97 BACHERIT MATTER - R

REASOTT

Dear

Sir:

DANT HOVIET 7-20-89

MAY 10997

Please refer to Madrid letter to the Bureau dated July 10, 1948,

entitled COUNT TOLSTOL; PRINCESS GALITZIN; SECURITY MATTER - R, in which

this office was requested to furnish the Bureau the identity, and supple

mentary information regarding the above subjects. &lu)

C.I.Aos

Enbossy files rottect that these people were cooperating with

and Mr. CHIPMAN of this Embassy, as evidenced by the follow

ing memorandum:

"NICHOLAS GALITZIN, his wife LYDIA, and IVAN TOLSTOY were

implicated in the kidnapping by the Soviets of the Polish student,

LAPCHINSKY .

They have several times been approached or photographed on

the streets, and they not unnaturally have becone apprehensive about

their continued residence In Paris

These people headed a group of

enipre Russiane who cult irated the Soriats for the purpose of obtaining

information for the american services. This infornation has been

extrenely valuable.

tionably contains an element of danger.

The plight in which they now find themselves unques

For this reason ve would only

be repaying the excellent services of these people by facilitating the

granting of their visas to the extent of allowing them to make applic

6668

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

tion immediately rather than await their turn, which would normally

require several months

. I feel that these people are deserving of what

ever assistance can be given them in this respost."

TOISTOY's visa file perlects the polling additional informations

Count IVANT (JEAN) TOLSTOY (TOLSTOY).

61-10448-194

Address: : 33 rue Erlanger, Paris 16.

Fationality: Russian refugee.

Born: Bogitchevo, (Moscow), usSE, Decamber 23,

190EP 1 6 1948

Profession:

Poultry farner.

Reasons for trip:

Ingration.

Marital status:

Divorced. will

INITIALS ON ORIGIARI

194 feference in U. S.3

Countes ALEXANDRA Li. TOLSTOY, aunt, Tolstor

Foundation, Inc.; 289 Fourth

New York

reforence, in Trance:

MiSs SOPHIE ZERNOPE, 395 rue de Vaugirard,

Paris 15.

CONFSENTIAL

COPY FILED IN

ITT 50953

DonTd: 32298986

Page 2

---

