# 124-10291-10148

## Page 1

124-10291-10148

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10148

HQ

105-72630-2ND NR 77

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/11/1961

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NY 50953

18

DocId: 32307008

Page 1

---

## Page 2

A-NI (ROV, 1-11-60)

SECRET

DECODED

COPY

foison

Mohr

: 813209

Catchan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Radio

URGENT

1a i1-62

TO

DIRECTOR

Autolelyna

ALE INTORMATION CO

LICA SSIFIED

FS5E SHOWN

EST

TD

OTHERWISE

Indr

Gonly

FROM

SAC, MIAMI

Pedro Diaz LANz

120045

CLIP.

MIAMI HERALD NEWSPAPER, MIAMI, FLORIDA, JANUARY 115

CARRIED FRONT PAGE ARTIOLE ENTITLED "HOW MIAMI'S ANTI-CASTRO

AIRLIFT WORKS-SECRET PLANES ON DEADLY MEISSIONS.".

ARTICLE

DESCRIBED USE OF OPA LOCKA AIRFIELD AND AN ABANDONED AIRSTRIP

NEAR CLEWISTON, FLORIDA, BY UNMARKED, UNLIGHTED PLANES, "AND

INQUIRED WHETHER THIS WAS

"THE MIAMI. LINK TO A MANY FACETED

OPERATION REPORTED FOR MONTHS: IN THE CITY'S CUBAN COLONY AN

AIRBORNE MOVEMENT OF ANTI-CASTRO PATRIOTS TO A GUATEMALANG

TRAINING CENTER?". ARTICLE CONTINUED THAT IT. IS THESE INCIDENTS

AND REPORTS THAT THE CASTRO ORGAN, REVOLUCION, TIED TOGETHER

TUESDAY. IN CHARGING ALL WERE PART OF A GROWING US BACKED CON

SPIRACY TO OVERTHROW THE GASTAO GOVERNMENT..

ARTICLE CONTINUED

THAT THE CASTRO ORGAN, REVOLUCION; QUOTING FROM THE NATION MAGA

ZINE, CHARGED THE US CIA IS FINANCING THE OPERATION WITHOUT THE

KNOWLEDGE OF THE STATE. DEPARTMENT. AND THAT THE NEW YOOK TIMES

ALSO PUBLISHED A STORY TUESDAY MORNING UNDER THE HEADLINE "US

HELPS TRAIN ANTI-CASTRO FORCES AT SECRET GUATEMALAN AIR GROUND

JORSE," MEDALO STORY ONERNED A SUO MCROING THAT POOLICAT DEE

WAS HELD RU, BY HERALD FOR MORE THAN TWO MONTHS

AND THAT ITS

RELEASE WAS DECIDED UPON ONLY AFTER US AID OF ANTI-CASTRO

FIGHTERS IN GUATEMALA WAS FIRST REVEALED. ELSEWHEREA

ON AFTERNOON

OF JANUARY 11, NAMES BUCHANAN, REPORTER, HOLLYWÖOD, FLORIDA

SUN TATTLER,

AN AFTERNOON FIVE DAY A WEEK NEWSPAPER, CONTACTED SA

DENNIS JO OSSHEA AT THE FORT LAUDERDALE RESIDENT AGENCY

INFORMED HE WAS CONTACTING ALL FEDERAL AGENCIES TO DETEAMING*

BY: &EMACIVA

GARTE

DECLASSIFY ON:

JFK

105-72630-

NOT PErORDED

201 JAN 19 1961

730S

06 JAN 2 6 1961

If the intelligence contained in the above

message is to be discamina

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureou's cryptographic syste

Bureau,

suitabl

ATHT

60953

DoCT: 32307008

Page

---

## Page 3

AnAl (Rov. 1-1i-o0)

DECODED

COPY

Tolson -

Mohs -

Pairsons -

Belmont -

Callahan

DeLoach

Radio

Teletype

Malone -

McGuire

Rosen ti

Tomm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

PAGE 2 FROM MIAMI

Tole. Room

120045

Tngram .

Gandy

THE PRESENT ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE CUBAN CONSTITUTIONAL-.

CRUSADE, (CCC

BUFILE 105-347680 ON VIEW OF THE REVELATIONS MADE BY THE MIAMI

HERALD, NO COMMENT WAS MADE O

BUCHANAN. THEN ADVISED THAT ON

JANUARY 9, LAST, AFTER AGREEING NOT TO RELEASE ANY INFORMATION

UNTIL AUTHORIZED, HE HAD BEEN INVITED. TO ATTEND A MEETING IN

MIAMI OF, THE CCC. REPRESENTATIVES OF THE MIAMI NEWS, OBS, AND

NBC, WERE ALSO PRESENT.

HE LEARNED THE CCC INTENDS TO OPEN

OFFICES IN MIAMI, NEW YORK, AND POSSIBLY FORT. LAUDERDALE, AND

ITO RECRUIT IN THESE AREAS.

IN ORDER TO DO SO, THE ORGANIZATION

WILL NEED FAVORABLE PUBLICITY, FOR WHICH REASON THE PRESS WAS

INVITED. HE DECLINED TO FURNISH THE PLACE OF THIS MEETING HE

SAID 11 PERSONS WERE PRESENT, INCLUDING PEDRO DIAZ LANZ, THE

PRESIDENT OF THE COC. ONE OF THE SPEAKERS WAS FRANK FLORINE,

ASSISTANT OF DIAZ LANZO THE GROUP'S AIMS, WHICH IT DESIRED TO

PUBLICIZE, WERE TO REINSTATE THE CUBAN CONSTITUTION OF 1940,

AND TO HOLD FREE ELECTIONS:

IT WAS STATED THE GROUP INTENDED

TO RECRUIT PEOPLE FOR TRAINING IN GUERILLA WARFARE AND TRANSPORT

¡THEM TO CUBA FOR THIS PURPOSE. IT WAS STATED ARRANGEMENTS HAD

BEEN MADE WITH

• A RANCHER IN BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA, TO USE HIS

ISOLATED FARM AS A TRAINING GROUND. IT WAS CLAIMED THEY HAVE

THE FULL ENDORSEMENT OF ALLEN. DULLES AND CIA: BUCHANAN: ADVISED

THAT IN VIEW OF THE PUBLICATION OF THE HERALD STORY, ABOVE MEN

TIONED, HE INTENDED TO RELEASE A STORY ALONG THE SAME LINES IN

THE HOLLYWOOD SUN TATTLER ON JANUARY 12,:: IN VIEW OF THE FACT

THAT: PEDRO DIAZ LANZ IS NOW UNDERSTOOD TO BE A MEMBER OF THE

*EDENTE PSVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO A CLIO DORIA DAL

RECEIVED:

11:13 PM TELETYPE

11:15 PM: CODING UNIT

RN

the intelligence contained in the above

soraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

message is to be disseminated outfae the Bureau, i is suggested that ie be suitably

1 50953 DOCTO: 32307008

Page 3

---

