# 124-10020-10285

## Page 1

124-10020-10285

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/15/20

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10020-10285

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-7023

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, BA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/02/1971

3

JFK, SUSPECT, UNK

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA:

• COMMENTS :

w9.1

NW 50953

DocId: 32122448

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• FD-36. (Rev..

$-22-64)

Transmit the following

in

AIRTEL

Via

TO :

FROM

SUBJECTIO

FBI

Date:

8/2/71

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

BALTIMORE (99-30)

Enclosed for the Bureau are four copies of an

LHM, captioned and

dated as above, which is self-explanatory.

Enclosed for Dallas is one copy of instant IHM.

No further action is being taken by Baltimore,

UACB.

88:222

10

€6-39

* 4P

L Bureau (Enclosures

4)

ENCLOSURE

1- Dallas (Enclosure 1)

1- Baltimore

LWH: nrj

(4)

Negate

62109060-7823

1B AUG

3 1971

Approvatie

2197gF280

Special Agent in Charge

NH 50953

DoeId: 32122448

Page 2

_M

Sent

Per

---

## Page 3

UNI :D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Baltimore, Maryland

August 2, 1971

STICE

SECRET

Mr.

Tolson —

Mr. Felt -

Mr. Sullivan -

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Bishop -

Mr. Brennan, C.D.--

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Casper -

Mr. Conrad -

Mr. Dalbey

Mr. Gale

Mr. Ponder -

Mr. Rosen -

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Walters _

Mr. Soyars -

Tele. Room -

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy -

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

89-30

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,RE:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

FIIZGERAID KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. AS BRACKETEd

November 22, 1963

192491

on July 28, 1971.

appeared at the

3/1/98 Me WI mIngTON, DELaWaTe KeSIaent Agency or the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI), and provided the following

Information.

_FORMER

She was an employee of the central Intelligence

Agency

From October, 1959 until August, 1963. 5/u)

In

1961, she was assigned to the Central Intelli-

gence Agency

I'stated that she had previously

supplied

some of the following information to the Central

Intelligence Agency in a letter to the Director of the Central

Intelligence Agency in March, 1971. She stated that she has

to date only received a short letter from the Central

Intelligence Agency, and that her father had received a

telephone call from

concerning her letter.

She related that she believes that the details of the

following to be correct, and that she had voluntarily

contacted a psychiatrist and had psychological testing

performed, which she stated had resulted in the psychiatrist

advising her that she is normal. She continued and advised

that she is disgruntled with the way that the Central

Intelligence Agency has handled the information which she

provided, and Insinuated that she intended to contact

the newspapers in the near future with her information.

213/94

Classmieo

Declassify

»n:

ROSTEA

ADA JFK

AGI, IRONMATI ON CONTAINED

HERELY IS UNCLASS/FIED SO EXCEF

WHERE ShOWN OTHEORGE.

**

3/18/98

CLASSMED BY 566856/mda

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(EPA)

SECRET

62

+109060-1022

ENCLOSURE

•THIS DOCUMENI CONTAING NEITHER RECOMMENDATUSE

POR CONG USIONS OF THE GRI, IF IS THE PROPERTY

OF SUE EDI AND IS DOADED TO YOUR AGENCY; IT

AND ITS CONTENTE ARE NOT TO BE DISTAIBUTED

OUTSIDE YOUR ABENCY.**

WW 50953 DocId:3212244B Page 3

---

## Page 4

pennes

BA 89-30

RE:

SECRET

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN

FITZGERALD KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS

November 22, 1963

stated that the following information

began coming back to her earlier this year, and credits her

lapse of memory to a drug induced amnesia administered to

her on order of a_ Central Intelligence Agency employee,

FRANCE

from lunch,,

Sail bes

employees of the central Intelligence Agency,

Which took

place in the Central Intelligence Agency Office located on

the second floor of

She [w]

stated that she does not recall who was talking, but that

the conversation concerned the fact that the President was

not doing what was good for the country, especially about

Vietnam, and that he had to be done away with within the

next five years.

She stated that following this remark,

the group noticed that she had returned, and the conversation

was terminated.

she was given U.S. Army orders by

Stated that the following Friday,

Ethe personnel officer, to travel to an unrecalled

Army Medical Facility

for a polio innoculation.

She stated that upon arriving at the medical facility.

she was injected with some type of drug which the Medical

Technician, later told her was a drug which would make

her forget everything.

stated that the now recalls that

_that she would even forget getting

questioned about the injection by

that she told him that apparently sne nad received a polio

armoculation, but did not recall at that time receiving

-2-

CEORET

LUNG

WH 50953

Doeld:32122448

Paue

---

## Page 5

for a

BA 89-30

SECRET

RE: ASSASSINA DION, OF, PRES IDENT JOHN

FITZGERALDI KENNEDY, DALIAS, TEXAS

November 22,71963,

Stated that two weeks following

this, she was telephonically contacted by

another

employee of the Central Intelligence Agency,

na told to come to his apartment for song emergenes

typing.

She stated that upon arriving at

capartment

she was met

I Last name unknown, but

beginning with "C"). These men began making sexual advances

towards her, and she stated that she became extremely upset

and begged to be allowed to go home. She was told that she

could not go home in her distraught condition and was given

a glass of water and told to relax. She stated that she

lost consciousness for approximately ten to fifteen minutes

and

when she awoke she

found herself jp bed withouteflothes.

he stated that she was then raped by

ne stated that she told them that if

Inew what was

happening there would be a lot of trouble. Ofe of them

also raped halind he

called

. later appeared at the apartment and

She

stated that later that evening she

was taken to her apartment and put into her own bed.

said that at a later date, exact

time unknown, she again overheard a conversation between

concerning the fact that

"Mr. Big" had

ordered that anyone who knew of "the plans" should be

killed.

stated during the conversation that nothing

could be

done about her while she was in Paris since there

would be too many questions asked about her death in France.

in Falls Church. Wirsint stated that!

Tis now residing

Washington

Is now residing in Bethesda, Maryland 5) Co; and L

-3*-

i paren

WE ICORCT

:

NH 50953

DoeId: 32122448

Page

---

