# 124-10163-10296

## Page 1

124-10163-10296

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/18/20

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10163-10296

RECORD'SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-1019

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KNAPP, WADE E.

• TO :

LEG, MX

TITLE :

DATE: 05/20/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, TRIP TO MX, SUSPECT, GAMEZ, JOAQUIN

RIVAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA -

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 52333 DocId: 32167819 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNILU SAILS GUVEKNMENI

ONE DENTIAL

TO

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702)

FROM:

SA WADE E. KNAPP

DATE: E/32/64 OBJECTION TO

nai AND/OR,

FORMATI:

SUBJECT

7-27-49

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

9803R010

R - CUBA

CLASSIFIED

BY 3042 PWTING 5931-977554

DECLASSIFY ON:

QADR

K3/10/27

3721185

RE: JFK

ReBuairtel to Legat, Mexiço,

4/13/64, enclosing

a letter from the Department dated 4/3/64,

together with

copies of a Bureau translated letter from JOAQUIN RIVAS

GAMEZ, whose address was shown as House 1604, Barrio San

Miguelito, San Salvador, Central America.

on 5/11/64, Major GUSTAVO ATILIO HERNANDEZ, Chief

of Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El

Salvador,

stated he had never heard of RIVAS GAMEZ but advised that

ALFREDO ZAPATA, Chief of Criminal Investigations, would attempt

to locate this män. & u

on 5/11/64, ALFREDO ZAPATA checked his records

without locating any Identifiable Information on JOAQUIN

RIVAS GAMEZ. He advised that he would Initiate Investigation

Immediately In attempt to locate this man. e

on 5/12/64, WILLIAM A. MITCHELL,

Consul, American

Embassy, San Salvador, checked visa records without locating

any identifiable Information on JOAQUIN RIVAS GAMEZ. C

On 5/12/64, Dr. PEDRO ANTONIO ANGEL, Head of

Technical Section, National Police, San Salvador, checked

his records and located a fingerprint card on an Individual

by the name of JOAQUIN RIVAS GAMEZ.

This Individual was

1dentifled as a Salvadoran, born 1924 at Apastepeque, San

Vicente, El Salvador.

father was listed as JOSE RIVAS

and his mother as JUANA GAMEZ.

He was shown to be 5' 8-3/4"

In height, but there was no additional physical description. t

This man was arrested on 8/21/52, at which time his

address was shown as Colonia Milftar 10, San Salvador. He

was arrested on suspicion of tide haulcide of ATaBRTo GO See

. & EXT. BY SPSTER /RH AMe

105 33 10210

REASON-FCIM II, 1-2.42

WEK: eim

(1)

DATE OE REVIEW

rut.

54034

SEARCHED

- INDEXED

SERIALIZED SO FILED DA

!?"""TORMATION CONTAINED

01264 1

FANCIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

LEGAL ATTACHE: MEXICO

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SeO/Ge

DECLACS

PY ON: 25X

SECRET

NH 452333

DoCT: 32167819

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRe:

CREDENBAL

MC 105-3702

PAST

On 5/12/64, ALFREDO ZAPATA was advised of the

above information from Colonel MEDRANO and stated that he

would attempt to locate the JOAQUIN RIVAS at the address

shown.

ZAPATA advised that Investigation in the section of

San Salvador known as Colonia Militar disclosed a

houses bearIng #IO. ZAPATA sald that the address colonior

Militar 10 1s not complete Inasmuch as it lacks the name of

the street.

He stated that a detective conducted Investiga-

tion at every house in the section of the city known as

Colonia Militar and bearing the #do without locating anyone

who could furnish any information on JOQAUIN RIVAS GAMEL C

on 5/13/64,1

F advised

That

he could locate no ident lable IntomatIon wader now.

Hame of JOAQUIN RIVAS GANEZ. SHedid have Information,

ever, that a JOAQUIN RIVAS, not further identified, had

taken part in a Communist uprising of 1932 and had been a

candidate for Mayor of San Salvador on the Communist Party

ticket.

This man

reportedly had left El Salvador for

Honduras in 1932.

onliS. THOMAS C. JAMES, Secretary, Political Section,

American Embassy, San Salvador,

checked the name of JOAQUIN

JA RIVAS GAMEZ through the General Embassy Indices without

locating any Identifiable Information. G u

on 5/13/64, ALFREDO ZAPATA advised that he had

personally ascertained that the branch post office located

at North Second Avenue 1604, San Salvador, has only two

They confirmed information previously furnished

to his detective that they merely receive mail and do not

distribute from that address.

never heard of JOAQUIN RIVAS

as to what action they would take 1f a letter arrived at the

branch post office addressed to him and both replied that

they would forward it to the central post office in downtown

San Salvador.

Ort 5/14/64,

JOSE DAVID ZARCO PEREZ had conducted Inquiries on North

Second Avenue between East 9th and 11th Streets, which 1s

In the section of the city known as Barrio San Miguelito

but about nine blooks from the branch post orrace, main alW

SECRET

- 3-

PONFDENTIAL

183-10511?

NH 52333 DocId: 32167819 Page 3

---

