# 124-90140-10036

## Page 1

124-90140-10036

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90140-10036

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4351-152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 12/21/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

I NH

50953 DocId: 32338079 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

a incid

Liaison

Go Co

Moore

Meier

SIA HAS NO PRECHON 1O

REcLAnardanod AMa/ca

RELEASE A LA MFORMATION •

IN THIS DRAGUMENT, EXCEPT FOR

BRACKETS

9804351

KP 5-18-98

Dates

December 21, 1961

SECRET

COPLES MADY

- 7- 28*

FOR REVIOU

HSCA RE*

A FROUSY

REQUEST.

(SEE BUBILE #62-117800)

208

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attentions Deputy Director.

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subjects

FLIGUEL ANLONIO SANCHEZ RAMOS

Esclassily ot

18216

INTERNAL SECURITY - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 5668-54DJude

REGISTRATION ACT • DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ALI. INFORMATION CONTA: $2D

HEFEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

HERE SHOWN OTHERWiSE.

captioned individual's actluities in the past have

been such as to render him possibly liable to register with

the Attorney General of the United States in accordance

with provisions of Seotions 851-857, Title 50, United Stotes

Code or of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1930, as

amended.

SED ISR

5668

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

In view of your present interest in this individual,

any application of the exception proutaions contained in

sectione 851-857.

Title 50, Undted States Code i9

being left

to your atsoretton. (YU)

(6)

NOTE®

subject is a dejected agent of the Dominican Intellig

serwice uno was contacted by our New York office on numerou

occasions from 11/c0/00 to 10/1/010

07 3/3/61:the Director

excepted him from

the requirements of Sections 851-857, Title 50,

Uoso

code, which require that persons who have received training

in espionage service of a foreign country shall register with

the Attorney General.

REC- 6

435/-

15₴

11/21/60 the Department rendered on opinion that

Tolson

Belmont

once an inazuidual had been excepted from registration ne coula

Mohr

Callahan

nots

Conrad

thereafters be required to registers fa the same actioption

DeLoach

BY COURIER SCR

Evans

81 DEC SEEN NOTE CONTINUED PAGE

Maine -

дараматом

CONTA

DEC22

ROSES iS ONCE ABSIFIEL

Sullivan

But Me

ONCOM -FEL

PRES

Ingram

SH & DEC 201961

TELETYPE UNIT

1gs SECI

HW 50953

DocId: 32338079

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ps: 38002

SECRE

Director

BECKEL

Central Intélligence Agency (Su)

NOTE CONTINUED:

subject is of no further value to us.

Regarding such an

individual, our policy has been to refer pertinent facts

concerning him to the department once the necessity for

concealing his identity had expired.

We turned subiect over

End since 10/1169

he has been employed

Bu directing above letter

we are putting

Ion notice that any responsibility for exception of s

subject from the

provisions of the Registration Act now

lies withy

Letter is classified "Top Secret" since it concerns

a double agent operation of CIA and sets out agent's identity. (SU

SECRET 19. HdEES 12030

153

WON TV 0.038

GOP SEC

HW 50953

DocId:32338079 Page

3

---

