# 124-10191-10006 62-hq-17290 1400

## Page 1

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal

Division

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FEDERAL SONAL

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (SCA)

12/28/78

1 - Mr.

Mintz

Attn: Mr.

Heller

1 - Mr.

Aldhizer

1 - Mr. Foster

Reference is made

to the letter to the Assistant

Attorney General from G. Robert BLaKey,

Chief Counsel

and Director,

HSCA, dated November 3, 1978, which, in

connection with the HSCA's investigation into the assassi

nation of Martin Luther King,

Jr.,

requested delivery

of certain serials

"rom the

files

Of FBI Headquarters

and

the

FBI Chicago Field

Office.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memo

randum in response

to referenced ASCA letter.

It is requested.

that you furnish

copy of the enclosed memorandum to

the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

GJF: vip

(5)

EX-114

REG5062-117690-1400

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y -

DEC

68

MAIL ROOM E

117-6

10 05

DËC 2 8 1978

FBI

23

1"4 2 1979

3/18186 Sorname

---

## Page 2

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn :

Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

1 - Mr. Foster

December 23, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S.

HOUSE OF REPRESONTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Assistant

Attorney General from

Robert Blakey,

Chief Counsel

and Director,

HSCA,

dated November 3,

1978, which, in

connection with the aSCA's investigation into the

assassi

nation of Martin Luther Ring,

Jr., requested delivery

of certain serials from the

files of FBI Headquarters

and the FBI Chicago Field Office.

This letter is

to confirm that material requested

in referenced HSCA

letter was delivered to ASCA representative

Lisa M. Berlow

Where information is not provided, it is either not retrievable

or is not being furnished pursuant

safe to mat on ar

on November 3, 1978, at FBI Headquarters.

to the Menorandum of

Understanding.

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert L.

Keuch,

dated December 28, 1978, captioned as above.

GJF

(7)

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv.

Ident..

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Afts. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y.

62-9790-111

HS/OK

MAIL ROOM D

ENCLOSURE

3\15\840

Принастка

---

