# 124-10285-10257

## Page 1

124-10285-10257

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10285-10257

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-116243-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

NERO, PETER J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/1966

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

MR, OROPESA, JOSE ANTONIO DUARTE, ACA,

REVOLUTIONARY ACT, CUBA, DESCR, REL, EMP,

EDUCATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 50953

DooId: 32304245

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MN 105-7046

(SEGREL

Copies Continued:

1

1

1

INS: Miami

624) (RM)

LTa

NISO, 6th ND

OST,

Robins

Áir

carleston, south Carolina (AM)

Force Base, Georgia (RM)

G=2,

Ft. McPherson, Georgia

(RM)

Florida

(RM)

U. S. Coast Guard,

Miami

S.

(RM)

Customs 81

MY 8201)

(1. = Resion IT.) (1 - Key West) (RM)

U.

S. State Department (Cuban Affairs), i (RM)

Atlanta (UNARE)

(Info)

(RM)

• Los Angeles (105-18840)

(Info)

(RM)

I = New York (105-5882) (Info) (RM)

On September

6, 1960, after subject's arrival at INS

Cuban Refugee Screening Center,

Opa Locka,

Florida, WALLY DEL

TORO, USAFAD (Covert Army Intellicence). Miami

Springs, Florida,

advised his office and

an interest in

talking to subject DUARTE iS

DUARTE WaS in contact while in

Cuba with people of interest to

USAFAD and CIA.

DEL TORO

stated the

two agencies were

working

cogether

on this matter. (P/U)

attempting to have

the action

i sas lorer determined castor les

against DUARTE nol-prossed.

(S)

CIA, Mishi, expressed an interest in the

subject ana requested

COpy of

any

FET report.

DUARTE appeared

to be

overly impressed with his im

portance when interviewed.

He stressed that he was the

idealogical and inspirational leader of Unidad Nacional

Revolucionaria (UNARE), the anti-CASTRO organization in Havana.

B.

COVER PAGE •

(SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32304245 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-7046

SECRET,

However, he admitted he never led any actions in the field

and was not present when several skirmishes occurred. DUARTE

apparently wishes to be known for his great writings. He

claims to be an economist.

He exaggerates the effect of his

efforts.

On November 16, 1966, STANLEY SCHACHTER, U. S.

Customs Agency Service, Miami, advised the U. S. Attorney's

Office for the Southern District of New

York was very slow;

in obtaining court action; therefore, he was not sure when

the nol pros action against DUARTE might be consummated. He

had attempted to expedite this matter through his New York

Office but without success.

Therefore, this case

is being closed as

all inves-

tigation has been completed.

Copies have been sent to Los Angeles and Atlanta

so they will be aware of the background of DUARTE and the

fact that he entered the United States on the Cuban Airlift

with the permission of both the Cuban and the United States

Governments.

DUARTE stated he does not desire to work with CIA

or elsewhere as he

prestige.

CIA, according to

fonte the ela las lost its

interested in using DUARTE

Mtam1, 1s not (5)

COVER PAGE

SECRET!

HH 50953

DocId: 32304245

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MN 105-7046

Copies Continued:

SECRED

INS. Miami (A7 771 624) (RM)

RM) U

I

1

- NISO, 6th ND,

unreston, south Carolina

(RM)

• OSI,

Robins

Air Force Base, Georgia (RI)

Ft. McPherson, Georgia

• USAFAD, Miami Springs, Florida

(RM)

U. 5. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

• U.S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

• I. S. Customs (1 • Miant)

(1 = Region IT (i = Key West) (RM)

1 = U.S. State Department (Cuban Affairs), Miami (RM)

→ Atlanta (UNARE)

(Info) (RM)

• Los Angeles (105-18840) (Info)

1 = New York (105-5882) (Info) (RM)

(RM)

On September 6, 1966, after subject's arrival at INS

Cuban Refugee Screening Center,

Opa Locka,

Florida, WALLY

DEL

TORO, USED (Covert hims Paten

- Miami Springs, Florida,

advised his office

bad an interest in

talking to subject DUARTE as

DUARTE was in contact while in

Cuba with people of interest

tO USAFAD and CIA. DEL TORO

stated the two agencies were

what test in ats matter. l

It was dater determined Custons u

WaS

attempting to have

the action

against DCARTE nol-prossed.

(5)

CIA, Miami, expressed an interest in the

subject and requested

a copy of

any FBi report.

DUARTE appeared to be overly

impressed with his im

portance when interviewed.

Ke stressed that he was the

idealogical and inspirational leader of Unidad Nacional

Revolucionaria (UNARE), the anti-CASTRO organization in Havana.

B.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32304245 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-7046

SECRED

However, he admitted he never led any actions in

the field

was not present when several skirmishes occurred. DUARTE

apparently wishes to be known for

his great writings.

claims to be an economist, Hevexaggerates the effect of his

efforts.

On November 16, 1966, STANLEY SCHACHTER, U. S.

Customs Agency Service, Miami, advised the U. S. Attorney's

Office for the Southern District of New York was very slow

in obtaining court action; therefore, he was not sure when

the nol pros action against DUARTE might be consummated.

He

had attempted to expedite this matter through his New York

Office but without success

Therefore, this case is being closed as all inves-

tigation has been completed.

Copies have been sent to Los Angeles and Atlanta

fact that he entered the United States on the Cuban Airlift

Governments®

DUARTE stated he does not desire to work with CIA

or elsewhere as he

feels the

has lost its

prestige.

CIA, according to

Miami, is not (5)

interested in using DUARTE

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32304245

Page 5

---

