# 124-10302-10233

## Page 1

124-10302-10233

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10302-10233

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1499-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ERRION, THOMAS H.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/06/1959

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS:

FS, TRA, ASSOC, ARREST, SMUGGLING, WEAPONS, CUBA,

PRO-CASTRO, GAMBLING ACT, GUTIERREZ, VICTOR, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC R/S, S/S

v9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32310289

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MIM 2-192

ST. LOUIS:

(INFORMATION)

One copy of instant

report is being furnished

St. Louis in view of pending investigation there.

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE:

54352

AT WASHINGTON, D.

Washington Fleld Office is requested to check

the Foreign Agents Registration Section, Internal Security

Division, United States Department of Justice, and

ascertain whether or not the subject appears registered

as the agent of a foreign principal.

MIAMI:

subject.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will follow and report the activities of the

ADMINISTRATIVE

Othe fact

operation

PO

of an intelligence service

In a foreign country

Information from the American Vice Consul

Legat, Havana,

letter to the rector dated January 2, 195, Mex

- COVER PAGE

Decisions ComEs 9625125t86

LIC, (190-16406-257)

SPSBIA/GE 4241326-1126/90

puS

REVIEWED BU REVURK TASK POE

ON 12/29/92 no/clot

I RELEACE IN FALL

I RELEASE ES PART

TOTAL DEMAL

1: 0..

1 51

NH 50953 DocId:32310289 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-1:92

Two additional copies of instant report are

forwarded to the Bureau for

transmittal of one copy

each

to the Legat, Havana, and the Legat, Mexico CIty,

for

their information.

INFORMANTS

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

2-192-35

2-192-35

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

MM T-] is

MM T-2 is

Legat letter

tơ

Bureau January 26, 1959)

MM I-3 is MM 639-S

134-238-Sub

Careful consideration has been given

concealed in this report,

and

"T"

to each source

symbols have been utilized

only in those instances where identity must be concealed.

BOREETS M

SPG BIANGEL: 221,326-1/26/90

67255

B.

- COVER PAGE -

ATHT

70953

DoCT: 32310289

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 2-192

CONFIDENTIAL

at Uruapan at dawn on November 20, 1958, when they:

were discovered endeavoring to send arms to the rebels

Of FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. In Cuba.

The article Iisted the

following as having been arrested:

CuBA.

MEXICO

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ

THANK FLORINT

JOSE ALBERTO MENDEZ

ISALDO E. RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

*(4)

The article concludes by stating that a North

American,

FRANK FIORINI, the "pilot of the airplane"

and the Cuban, PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, had requested

permission to be interviewed with an attorney

present,

that this request had been granted.

MM T-2, another government agency which

conducts intelligence Investigations, on January

on October 27, 1958, after having traveled from the

and amen, Coxide, area by automobtie and haying encountered

wistalfficulty with Mexican Immigration authoritles upon

entering Mexico. MM T-2 did not know their Mexican

port of entry, but stated that they had been in

Monterrey; therefore, he concluded that they had

crossed the border at Brownsville or Laredo, Texas,

and that they must have entered Mexico October 24g 25

or October 26, 1958. Following the arrival of the

trio in Mexico City, DIAZ LANZ and DE LA LORIE proceeded

by air to venezuela, returning about October 31, 1958.

Shortly thereafter, they again left Mexico City by

air enroute to San Francisco, Callfornia.

PREVIOUS CIA

MCAESIFRATION

DECISIONS (PE 2, 3) UPHELD BUT

DOWNGRADED PER 8/25/86 LTR.

196016449-257)

5P605A/GCL -721, 326-26/90

CONFIDENTIAL

(*(u)

NH 50953 DocId: 32310289

Page 1

---

## Page 5

MY 2-192

CONFIDENTIAL

Meanwhile, on November 4, 1958,

FIORINT

departed from Mexico City in the automobile, and is

reported to have met DIAZ LANZ and DE LA LORIE at

Yuma, Arizona.

On November 8, 1958, they were at the

Highway House Motel at Phoenix, Arizona.

MM T=2

believed that from Phoenix they proceeded to Kingman,

Arizona, where they made the purchase of a C46

airplane which had been U. S. Government surplus, and

which was purchased and registered in FIORINI's name,

even though it is presumed

that the runds were provided full

From Phoenix, Arizona, the group flew the

airplane to Veracruz and Acapulco, Mexico, before

proceeding to Apatzingan.

MM I-2 said that to

after being detained for several days, all subjects

that t tu

and the

airplane were released.

On January 7, 1959, MM I-2 said that from

October 21

T,

1958, until November 4, 1958, FIORINI was

registered at the Bel Sol Apartments in Mexico City

and gave his U.S. address as being 422 Glen Ridge Road,

Key Biscayne, Florida.

He also was registered at

the Hotel statler in Mexico city, and gave his t. s. pulan

address as being 310

Northeast 5th Street, Fort

Lauderdale, Florida.

Mn 1-2 stated that a recent

garspaper artiele, in the Mexico city artemon papes (e)

'"Ultimas Noticias"

, had contained a photograph

FRANK FIORINI standing on some of the graves of

BATISTA followers who had been executed by the

triumphant FIDEL CASTRO RUZ revolutionaries.

On January 20, 1959, Vice Consul BERNARD

FENMINELLA of the U. S. Consulate, Santiago de Cuba,

advised that he was

informed that an individual known

as FRANK FIORINI was with the revolutlonary forces in

the vicinity of Santiago de Cuba.

- 3=

CONFIDENTIAL

HTH 50953 DorTO: 32310289

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 2-192

ST. LOUIS: (INFORMATION)

Confidential

One copy of instant report is being furnished

St. Louls in view of pending investigation there.

WASHINCTON FIELD OFFICE:

"AT WASHINGION, D. C.

Washington Fleld Office 1s requested to check

the Foreign Agents Registration Section, Internal Security

Division, United States Department of Justice, and

ascertain whether

or not the subject appears registered

as the agent of a föreign principal.

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

W111

follow and report the activities of the

subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Instant report is classified secret in view of

the fact

pat it contains information furnished by. CIA (MM T-2)

the disclosure of which might prejudice thel

operation of an Intelligence service in a foreign country XC

Information from the American Vice Consul

BERNARD FENMINELIA, Santiago de Cuba, was furnished by,

CHAGSTION VEN

CR. (180-16449-259)

SPOBTAIGCE - 1311,326-1/26190

COVER PAGE -

Confidential

29 120

NH 50953 DocId: 32310289 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 2-192

contidentiat

Two additional copies

instant report are

forwarded to the Bureau for transmittal of one copy each

to the Legat, Havana, and the Legat, Mexico elty, for

their information.

IVFORMANIS

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

2-192-35

2-192=35

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

MM T-1 isf

MA T-Z 13

Legat Letter

Letter to

bureau, Jemary 28, 195329)

VIM

T-3 is. MM 639-S

134-238-Sub A

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report, and "n"

symbols have been utilized

only in those instances where identity must be concealed.

[CIES (INTERNAL BRACERS)

REMATES CLASSTAEOPER 8/25/81

CIR (190-16449-257)

SPBSTA/GEL - #211,326-1/26/90

B.

- COVER. PAGE. -

Confidential

IT 50953

Dord: 32310289

Page 7

---

