# 124-90041-10044

## Page 1

124-90041-10044|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90041-10044

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89923-45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/23/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CLIP

JOSE RASCO BERMUDA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

ITT 50953

Doo1d:32325962

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DIKECTOR, FBI (105-860202442)

O SAC, MIAMI

DATE:

7/23760

62-35730 Des (sorrier 1b-34

SUBjeCT:

# CLIP

SPLATTA

(23/35

Enclosed are five

25X

ntitled "CLIPE dated July 23, 1960.

copies of a letterhead memorandum

It is suggested that

-NO

the Bureau disseminate this on a limited basis, especially

to CIA. KS)

ECLASSPY

This létterhead memo is classified "Secret"

as

it relates toa project which has been

CIA in previous commnications.

• classified by

8(4) 9366

3190

The tenor of the information

contained in the

letterhead memo very definitely reflects that there is

considerable dissension among Cuban leaders of the "CLIP"

operation.

COMIN

FICATICK:

UP CIA INFORIATION

Due to the seriousness of the information furnished

substance of this information was furnished

by CAJIGAS, FERNANDEZ, CUESTA, ROS, and Mrs. VALENTINER, the

promptly, as It

was received, to BERNARD REICHHARDT, CIA representative in

Miami,s. He confirmed that it is true that there is such

dissension among these Cubans.

He expressed concern and

predator fox having been furnished the information ae

DECLA

35Y3736

With regard to Mrs. VALENTINER, she also furnished

two automobile license numbers which she had observed used by

the Cubans who participated in the meeting in Apartment #209

zen July 19, 1960.

the nature

She also stated that she had disclosed

of this meeting to several of her friends, Mrs.

WILLIAM ROBINSON, ME. LAWRENCE BREWER, head of Esso Standard

0i1 Company, Havana,

and Mrs. CARL MORRIS, wife of a Standard

011 executive in Havana, all of whom now reside in Miami and

are very anti-Castro. Lupon request of Mr. REICHHARDT,

nuts

Mrs. VALENTINER was requested to refrain from discussing

this incident with any other persons and to make every effort

to prevent

ee.

anyone

friends fom discussing the matter with

• Bureau

(AMSD) (RM)

(Eng

105.

9

2

GED: mgw

copies nade

or revier at FBIQ by,

pi: 9-88-1697

HH 50953 DOCTА:32325962

Page 2

---

