# 124-10222-10142

## Page 1

124-10222-10142

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10142

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-1ST NR 106

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

• TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 06/11/1964

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, NUMEROUS EXILE GROUPS, INTERNAL

INSURRECTION, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32298366

Page 1

---

## Page 2

INFO R.

THON

REP

TIN FO

RMATION

REPORT

ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC

This material contains laformation alecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Eepionage Lows, Title

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 75%, the tranamission or revelation of which

in any manner to an unauthorized person

1s probibited by,law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic

Plans of/cuban Exile Groups for

Concerted Action Against Cues made

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

CS -3/583,533

11 June 1964

NO. PAGES

2

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

Mid-April - 6 Na

for review at FBIHQ by

-ISCA

3.14.78

1984

REFERENCES

CRIEd + 105-108411(1021)

97-412967000

+: 10512098(5N96)

(25 May 1964)

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL-38129

THIS IS UNEVALUATEC

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

U

from a regular source, probably

9

rellable, Irom persons mentioned in the report.

do

Go. Pipe p

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

NO RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATI

In

private conversation on 4 May. 1964 a member of the Frente

excopy

Ade Obreros Revolucionario Cubanos (FORC, Front of Revolutionary

"Cuban Workers)I claimed that the following exile groups were

conniving to take action against Cuba within the next few months:

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

"Allinnce" of the Movimiento Revolucionario Popular

(MRP,

•Popular Revolutionary Movement), the Segundo Frente Nacional del

Escambray (SPNE, Second National Front of the Escambray, and

*Alpha 66.

JURE,

the ER, and the "Alliance" were planning to enter Cuba to.

prepare the groundwork for internal insurrection, while the MRR

to carry.out diversionary hit-and-run attacks on the Cuban

Meanwhile,, the FORC was building up its own clandestine

organization among

the workers in Cuba, its aim is to organize

sabotage and

slow-downs in Cuban industries,

thus paving the way

FORC claims to have the support

of the Confederacion de Trabajadores Venezolanos (CTV, Venezuelan

Workers' Coniederation) and of the Confederacion Lat loamericana

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

BY SPST

DATE 6/9/94/

de Sindigatos Epistzanos (CIASC, Latin American Christian Trade

NOT RECORDED

On 6 Mal67 adolban lefile, who is independent of any exile o-gani-

ORIGINAT

zation, claimed that all exile groups, including JURE, have

the

active

backing the United States.

JURE was sáid to have

received arms and other material from the United States in recent

months.

58 JUL 2

1964

109

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGN DISSEM ES JUN 26 1964.

5

3

7H 50953 DOrTd: 32298366

Page

2

---

