# 124-10147-10108

## Page 1

124-10147-10108

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10147-10108

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: - 105-632-324A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1965

PAGES: 11

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 100-32965-307

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

06/02/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32280878

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

SUBJECTO

SECRET

WARLING NOTICE SENSHIVE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SOUNCES AND METHODS INVOLVE

WASHINGTON 28, D.C

CIA HAS NE

FRACTION TO

1 4 MAY 1965

DECLASS

BIOR,

RELEAS

YAMATION

1 Di roctor

IN THIS ANY

43/1742

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Porsons in Correspondenco with Georgo:nd Jeanne

DO MOHRENSCHILDT in Halti

'AINED

Roteranco La made Costhis Agency: 0 CSC.16/01-06-65

dated S Apri1 1965 concerning tho ectivities in Heltt of georso 196

and Jeanne De MOHRENSCHILDT (your filo numbor 100-32963.

to so rol

FBI INF

HERE

1002

P30l

5134 3/23/93

APPROVED FOR

CIA. HISTOR

Za During recent months George DO MOHRENSCHILDT has

received mail at the United States Embassy In Port-au-Princo.

Haiti, bearing the following return addresses!

J. Paul Roston

3211 Cherry Lane

Austin 3

Toxas

(postmarked Long Beach, California on 9 February 1965)

218 West Front Street

Media, Pennsylvanta

Poloss fication no

(postmarked 9 February 1965):

Tustyn Strimitto

Paris XVII

11 Rue Verniguet

France

(postmarked 15 Januarg 1965)

Sam

/ High

Plains Gas Company

SAMUeL 3 BALLIN

1717 Southland Center

9803109/80

Dallas 1, Texas

(postmarked 5 Pebruary 4965)

Tustyn Strumitto

Paris XVII

I1 Rue Vernigues

France

105.

1766

105

632-524

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED. DA FILED

INDEXED

FBI DALLA

+ zeroycopy to 105-1246

5/01/6 ge

3

WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE

SECRET SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

ITT 50953

Docid: 32280878

Page:

---

## Page 3

2

SECRET

WANING NOTICE SENSITIVE

SOURCES AD NETOYS INVGLVED

- 10-

Attached 1s being of possible interest is a photo

print of Georgo De MOHRENSCHILDT's contracts with the Haitian

Government which appearod in the Halti Pross. (Enclosuro 17)

The letters bearing tho return address of High Plains

Natural Tarcempany

with respect to the lottor bonring the

return address of 3003 Mahonna Springs, Apartment B, Dallas,

Texas our rocogus reflect that it is the residence of Mrs.

The letter from Madame

LIPOVATZ aka Vera SCHMIDT on whom you have furnishod information

Dartmouth College sinod by Dimitri (soc

enclosure #3) is from

Dimitri De MOHRENSCHILDT, the brother of George.

The author of

the letters bearing the return address of Croat Southwest Ware

houses, Inco, Dallas,

Texas, are probably from Pierre Rone.

FREYSS on whom we furnished information in our sociateria ss

anted 5 April 1965,

entitled "Activitles in Maiti of George and

Jeanno De MOHRENSCHILDT"

_ The letters from KARTON in Phila-

dolphia, Fennsylvania, are from Christiana and Reginald KEARTON,

the drughter and son-in-law respoctivoly of George De MOHREN.

SCHILDT.

8.

Your Bureau has previously furnished information on

Lawrence ORLOY; GeoIge N. PRICE and George Me MILLAN cited in

paragraph 2 alove.

Was

unable

furnish any infornation on Tustyn STRUMITTO, cited in

paragraph 2 above, who resides at 1l Rue Vorniguet, Paris, Franco.

It your Surenu so

Fe your sureries cale that offin sill tery tho appropriato

10. No information is availablo in the files of this offico

on othor persons mentioned in the above report.

11. Attached are 12 file Cleck Forms (in duplicato) on those

persons cited

above on whom this office would apprecinto recoiving

derogatory information which may be avnilable in the files of your

Bureau.

Also attached are three (3) addrosses on which we would

approciate identification and information on the person(s) resid

ing

at

those addresses if possible.

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE

SENE OURGES AND IONS INVOLVED

NH 50953 DocId: 32280878 Page 3

---

