# 124-90135-10090

## Page 1

124-90135-10090

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90135-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM:

TO :

CIA

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/10/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret :

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32336695

8

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

10 ARR 1964:

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BACKETS

K8 5-12-98

SID /MS 5-16-98

TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

K 6-180048 (JFK)

Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM

Deputy Director for Plans hAv

SUBJECT: Information Received from Jose ALONSO

"Costolla

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATELO

194 8xS

SMA

GAT

ORIGINE

6

1:

A representative of this Agency received the

following information from a fairly reliable source who in

turn received the information on 20 January 1964 from

0222 223 2143

JOSE ALONSO Costolla (Al: 829 214), born 17 July 1931 10

Habana, Cuba, and is currently residing at 2940 NeE. 2nd

Avenue, Miami, Florida.

Arnaldo GUANAGA Barron,

a United States

citizen who resides at 208 West 88th Street,

New York, New York, is a Communist. GUANAGA

according to

Avenue, Bronk, Now York, went to Cuba via NelS

but said that

this information is not generally

known.

b. Nicolas MOLINA, brother of Francisco

MOLINA, aka El Gancho, was recently arrested in

New York on a counterfeit charge.

Nicolas is

and his group.

involved in the

same counterfeit charge as

Nicolas MOLINA, is now in Cuba,,

having returnedot nes

via Mexico.

141 APR 16 1964

2.

The records of this Agency reveal no identitable

information on GUANAGA and ESTEVEZ.

There are many traces

on

Stith variations, however, due to a

• lack

of Identifying Information it is not possible to determine

67

4 MAY 2:01964

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excludod from aotemafte

dasn-racing and

2S, APR 14 1964

NẮT.

INT. SEC.

50953

DoOTd: 32336695

Page

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-2-

5

whether the

paragraph la above is

identical with any of the

individuals that appeared

in

the traces.

forwarded

If requested, traces on

will be

to the addressees.

78)

3. The records of this Agency reveal that Nicolas

MOLINA, paragraph lb above, is probably identical with

¡Nicolas MOLINA del Rio, born 29 September 1928 in Habana,

Cuba, who was at one time of interest to this Agency; he

has not been contacted by this Agency since 1961.

records also reveal that MOLINA has been subject of a

number of Bureau reports.

CSCI-3/780,833

cc:

Department of State

Immigration and Naturalization

• Service

SECRET

Exclusion troin astomatio

2a stallmador

HT 50953 DOCTO: 32336695

Page 3

---

