# 124-10292-10145

## Page 1

124-10292-10145|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10292-10145

HQ

CR 2-2005-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATION

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/20/1973

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FS, SCOTT, ED, MEETING, ACA, ASSOC, AKA, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC ATTACHMENT

v9.1

H 50953

DocId: 32307442

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

INTRAL INTÊLLIGÈNCE AGENC

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

SENSITIVE

GÍA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATICN AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

AL THIS DOCUMENT. EXCOPT BRACKETS

TO

Director

K 9-10-98

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention:

Intelligence Division,

20 AUG 1973

FROM :

Depi

Ity Director

to Operations

ALL Me DORIA

TO CONTANED

SUBJECT:

A SEASE CAID and KASE,

HEREIN IS WHOLESTED

89 8L

BiE 48-95 .566 51/18208

EdwindBen.

OKAiSER,

Reference is made to our Teletype Cite CIA 429475,

dated 5 July 1973, and to our memorandum CIR-316/02041-73,

dated 15 August 1973, Subject:

2.

The attached information was provided by Mr.

from personal contact with Ed SCOTT in

Miami, Florida on

5)

29 July, 30 July and 3 August 1973.

3.

CIA is unable to identify Ed SCOTT based on the

available data.

Should the FBI be able to provide further

identifying information we will be glad to recheck our records.

In the interim it is suggested that you query the Department of

the Army concerning information dated 27 September 1960 on one

Eduardo reofilo scotTyhomay or may not be zideng diable/vith

MCT-38

Nto

CIR- 316/02055-73

Attachment:

2

05-76

One, as above

REC-7

8

AUG 23 1973

ENCLOSURE

/ coptos mado

ST-104

for revier at FBIHQ by

ASCH

-1/20/0 0

Classified by signer.

Exempt

from General Declassification

Schedule of E.0.

11652 Exemption Category 5B (2).

Impossible

to determine date of

automatic declassification.

Querad for recree.

Уто чутка

40 My sSE-I

2-2-77

NH 50953 DocId: 32307442 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Att. to

+11 316/02035-73

On

29 Jul

who identified himself as

Ed

SCOTT

in

telephoned

address of Mrs.

Miami, Florida,

mis

staying,

that he needed

sect satant yes the cuban snopping

Sister-in-lay with whom ne current.

lad mutual friends and

Cubans named

"Centro Commercial Cubano."

center on Z2nd avenue and Tith Stroet which the description of the

SCOTT gave

lothes he was wearing for the purpose of recognition.

Since

it was mid-afternoon and

new most of the Cubans in that

shopping area he went to meet SCOTT who was waiting in front of

a small coffee shop located in the shopping center.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION IU

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

INFORMATION

RELEASE OF CIA

GONzALEs, who was in prison in Cuba with

According

SONZALES was supposed to have completed six years as a

DOC

a Movementon

SCOTT told

evolutionary activities to yes that he mone o

=

do somethine big in Cuba, and askes

some arms.

cold SCOTT that he was arrested for attempting

to leave Cuba illegally, was not and is not involved with any

F5L01SE

group and did not care

to discuss the matter further. SCOTT

said that he could tell

le location of Russian military

as in quba the pation os all de prisons in clay and aske

whether any groups that infiltrated into Cuba would be helped

by the people, and what

the cubans needed in the way of arms.

cood, etc., to change the situation in Cuba. SCOTT asker

ALL FBI IRFORMATION CONTAINED

rould be willing to join SCOTT's group, if

smuggled

out of cuba to the U.S. by big ships painted with red lines mar

by small boats with Cubans from the U.S. SCOTT also aske

the U.S. and said that he would like to take

an office

where a girl would take down informatien tut in his car,

By typewriter

and a tape recorder. SCOTT then too!

green 1970 or 1971 Ford Galaxy, opened the trunk and showe a dark

large number of round things, resembling sticks wramper

tin foil. SCOTT told

they were dynamite (s)

vas unahle

to note the license numher of the car.

where he obtained

who is emploved that he was called to Washington recently in

the coftee shop counter in the shopping center.

SCOTT tol

connection with the Watergate case.

SCOTT had an attache case

containing photostatic copies of photos on Frank/TURnIS vececT

LIDDY, E. Howard HUNT, and others which he showed to

made a number

ences to an AldoVERA, a Ñino diAz anc

other persons

said he steadfastly refused to cooperate

with SCOTT and told scott that the only thing he could tell him

was what they ate in prison because he knew nothing about what

went on outside of prison

#-200-16785-2097

ENCLOSURE

SECRET

EISTINE

color.

NH 50953 DocId: 32307442

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SENSITIME ACE. Co CTR. 316/0205, 73

On 30 July 1973

SALDIVAR

(nu)father of Eugenio

SALDIVAR, visited

Sister-in-law's apartment.

"cronies" and an

Armando, not further identified, who was exiledata

in the Uruguayan Embassy-t dayana in 1962. The group started Ale

normal conversation with

and atter they had arunk them

coffee, SCOTT, in an effort o be funny, according t

ree

The group insisted that

declined with the excuse that he had a doctor's, appointmen.

On the morning of 3 August 1973

the cuban shopping center to purchase somenzens and again

gain visited

that day called SCOTT "CASID"

An cAsdentified cuban at the shopphe center

very busy these days and showed

shopping center which SCOTT

was fixing up in preparation

for a trip soon, and invited

lo come see him the followin

day where SCOTT was working on no boat.

The boat SCOTT was

working on is located in back of the Cuban shopping center on

and to in a t Micher

said it neatedly is worth about 175, 000/s

LABRERA. nicknamed Cayo, whose

1s unknown to

In a note to this Agency dated 6 August 1973

S)

said that "they"

sources not named, told him that SCOTT is

also known by the name of KAISER, and that this SCOTT, or

KAISER, has spread the story around the Cuban colony that he

us a member of ciA; thai he tought in the Indo China war;

that he was a member of the French Foreign Legion; and that he

was wounded many times in World War II. SCOTT said that he and

Armando were going to Washington again to be questioned in

connection with the Watergate matter. SCOTT is a personal

friend of Armando FERNANDEZ,

_about 45 years old, who reportedly

1928 is in jail in cuba at the present time and claims to be or to

have carlos sets kith

Reportedly FERNANDEZ, togecher

about years old, and a persón called

El Pirate

about 35 years old, were arrested in Cuba on or

about 20 July 1973 for having gone to Cuba to bring out the

FERNANDEZ and some other people.

According

return trip with

these three were alsoarrested i

Varadero where the families lived.

and that the persoi

called "El Pirate" allegedly had been in jail in Cuba previously

but got out and came to Miami and that these three persons used

to hangout in the YUMURA Furniture Store in the Shopping Center

on 22nd Avenue.

SECREY SENSITIVE

NH 50953 DocId: 32307442

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

SENSINE

tt. to CIR-316/02055-73

[porLif are the following description of scorT:

Age

Height

About 35 or 36 years old.

Approximately 5'7" tall,

a little on the stocky side.

Weight

Hair

About 145 pounds

Blonde

Eyes

Scars

Blue

Appearance:

Long scar on right arm;

small finger on right hand

bent.

Not a bad looking person.

Spoke Spanish very badly.

SECRET SENSITIVE

IT 50953

DoCT: 32307442

Page 5

---

