# 124-10164-10161

## Page 1

124-10164-10161

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10164-10161

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-4TH NR 8174

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: DOJ/CRIM

TITLE:

DATE: 05/28/1980

PAGES: 36

SUBJECT: "ADMIN, INSTR, ACK, REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/30/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC 14 FBI LHM, ADMIN PAGES, 2 LISTS, INSERT

NW 50953 DocId:32168184 Page 1

---

## Page 2

D.70 (Rev. 8-3-78)

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Assistant Attorney General

criminal Division

Attentions

MI. Robart I. Reuch

FROM

Director, FBI

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

I-Mr. Dean

DATE: MaY 28, 1980

SUBJECT:

ASSASBINAFION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGRRALD KENNEDY

NOVENHER 72, 1963

DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

letter to the Director

Reference is made to Your

memorandum dated

(your file

following (see attached pages).

There is enclosed one copy of the raport of Special Agent

dated

HH

51

This covers the preliminary investigation and no further action concerning

a full investigation will be taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

The investigation is continuing and you will be furnished copies of

reports as they are received.

C.

advised

L..!

! The investigation requested by you has now been completed. Unless

to the contrary no further inquiries will be made by this Bureau.

- Pursuant to instructions issued by the Department, no investigation will

be conducted in this matter unless specifically directed by the Department.

E.

Please advise whether you desire any further investigation.

F. [ This is submitted for your information and you will be advised of further

developments.

G. g This is submitted for your information and no further investigation will

be conducted unless specifically requested by the Department.

H. [ This covers the receipt of a complaint and no further action WATBCCORDED

taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

9

Ju: #.1080

ENCLOSURE

ile 662-109060

Enc.

NOTE:

relet, in wh

limited inves

The enclosed are provided in response to your request in

tinequested that the FBI conduct further

isjy

(3)

sute

JUN

1090

Ld: 32168

fysU.B.aGavings Bonds Regularly on tite Payroll Savings Plan

5, 74

FB1/00J

---

## Page 3

"=-*

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTAs bracket

7BH-2/9194

9803 600 GAT 222411g

EXCEPT BRACKETS

KP 5-7-98

SID/KSR 7-20-98 JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT .

WHERE STORIN OTHERWISE.

United States

OD- YOKE

Department of State

OD-ACID

Department of Defense OD-EARL

Navy

FBI

CIA

OD- DATH

OD - ENVY

KU -BURK*

Clandestine services

KU -DPVE

FI Staff

KU-TUBE

C] Staff

"Cas" operations

KU-DECK

KU -CAGE

(S)

Soviet Union

Poland

Czechoslovakia

Yugoslavia

United Kingdom

AE-Ladle

AM-B100 d

South Korea

5)

AE-Jammer,

Cuba

AE(Broon

(8)

are for operations against the soviets

2/27/94

cissited by 9803 RID GAT

Doctoraly

DARL

(FK)

NH 50953

DocId: 32168184

Page 3

ENCLOSURE

ENCLOSURE

7420

SECRET

---

