# 124-10221-10283

## Page 1

124-10221-10283

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY.INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10283

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-735

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. BUE

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/10/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, AKA, ASSOC, INTV, DELGADO, ADRIANA, RES, REL, PASSPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

08/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

-RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NN 50953 DocId: 32340890

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

EC

F B1

Date:

12/10/76

AND

ADV

Transmit the following incar

DALE

Via

LAsS

- 23-83 (ype in plaintext or codel

CLASS.

AIRTEL

REASON

(Precedence)

FCIL

1-2.14

DATE OF REVIEW

12. 0-01

-E-DA HAS NO 08R2OLT

TO:

DIRECTOR (185-789)

DEALASSIFICAZION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONL

FROM:

°CHILBOM

PFO - MURDER; EID

LEGAT, BUENOS AIRES (157-35) (P)IN THIS DOCUMAN

NEXLODY TORR

Clacific les agency, .

Binches

5m 6-25-97

8110/81

ReWFOrep SA L, CARTER

CORNICK, JR., 11/15/76; mycab7-3/-97

12/6/76. (4)

This information is classified "Secret" inasmuch as

it contains CIA information so classified @(U

Referenced BUE ca

that ORLAND BOSCH AVILA,

utilizing the PEDRO ANTONIO PENA identity, entered Chile from?

Peru on 12/3/74.

BEDRI ANNANA

On 12/2/

adviser

that a story had been filed on 10/21/76 by Associated Press writer,

WILLIAM R. LONG, concerning an interview which he conducted with

BOSCH AVILA's Chilean mistress in Santiago, Chile. The text of -

the Associated Press

storydas provided loy

is as follows:

DE:49 REC46

185-789

"Santiago,

Chilos

Oct.

21 (AP) -ORLANDO BOSCH,

351

CAR

MEX

mm

WY

the Cuban

exile Leader

ander arrest in Venezuela,

lived in Chile for a yea

beginning in December,

1974,

him.

says a Chilean woman who claims to have know! DEC 28 1975

1/3/77

"She-confirmed information from a source outside

IC CM.4428

10 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

(1 - Legat,.

Caracas) (171-6) an ute

593/

(1 - Legat

Mexico City

(I - Miami) (185-76)

X(785-9)2Y

EXCE

CIne New

YOrK (185-576) SCROJ..

(1 - San /Jian)

(2 - WFO) (185-425)

EGORY

31360)

YNTICALLY DECLASSIZLED ON

2 - Buenos Aires

(1 - 105-1211) (Orlando Bosch Avila)

15qel

Classified ov

рзикдс

veelassay or

Special Agent in Charge

P2132k

57 JAN 281977

CAperilease +n 190-12027-1716

NH 50953 DocId: 32340890 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BUE 157-35

SECRET

work activities in Chile that she knew of were

writing and painting She said he told her he

was a physician

and owned a clinic in Miami,

Florida.

и

"His

son,

in Chile for about 20_days

out 20. da 15 in

of Miami,

visited him

October 1975, she

said.

She said BOSCH left Chile for about five days

around the middle of last year, but she did not

say where he went.

"Referring to BOSCH's reasons for being in

Chile, she said:

*He told me that he was here in Chile

I don't know, it was more peaceful, because

talk about that.;

I uyderstood that he aldntiwant to

"She said she did not know of any contacts other

than casual ones

that he might have had with Chileans,

I prefer, not to know at this time.' (SU)

"She emphasized: "He is a very correct person who

Laves his fatherland very much--that is his only dered us

"BOSCH was detained in Venezuela for questioning

about the explosion of a Cuban airliner that killed 73

persons two weeks ago. Fou

"The Washington Post said Thursday that he was expelled

from Costa Rica in May for using a false Chilean passport.

advised that discreet inquiries

been

another location in Santiago believed to be Calle San Francisco

155%

Obviously DELGADO would have valuable information concerni

Cuban exile contacts who visited BOSCH in Santiago during the year

he resided in that city. When photographs of all known Cuban exile

members in the continental United States and Puerto Rico known to

have visitéd BOSCH in Chile are received by Legat, Buenos Aires,

arrangements will be made for an in-depth interview with DELGADO

during which the photographs will be displayed in an effort to

elicit complete information

concerning these individuals and their

activities in Chile.

- 3-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32340890

Page 3

---

## Page 4

• DUE

157-35

The attention

the Bureau and interested offices is

invited to Section XXVI

relitorep, which contains a partia

text of a report dated 10/8/76 prepared by the Ad Hoc Working

Group on situations of human rights in Chile, United Nations

General Assembly This

report contained information concerning

DINA, which in some instances is obviously incorrect and based

on rumors and heresay. For example,.

Page

296 of rerep indicates

that DINA Headquarters and office of DINA Director was located

on Marcoleta Street in Santiago at the former offices of the

Chilean Communist

Youth.

As previously

reported, DINA Headquarters

and the DINA Director's Office are located at 1l Calle Belgrado,

This fact is well known in Santiago and probably any taxi driver

in Santiago would be able to take a passenger to DINA Headquarters

on request.

From the nature ofinformation contained in this

report, it appears that the Ad Hoc Working Group compiled information

volunteered by various Chilean dissidents concerning DINA operations

in Chile. Nonetheless, an extremely interesting piece of informa-

tion is contained on Page 300 of rerep, which identifies various

DINA premises in Santiago. One of the locations identified as a

DINA situs is listed

in Paragraph (D) as an apartment in the San

Borja Housing Project.

As noted in the above Associated Press

dispatch, BOSCH AVILA resided with his Chilean mistress at the

San Borja Towers Housing Development. (o)

It would be extremely significant if it could

be established

with any degree of certainty that BOSCH's apartment, was in fact

a location utilized by DINA®

Accordingly, it is suggested that WEO

or the New York Office give consideration

to ascertaining from

the Ad Hoc Committee Working Group whether the exact location of

the alleged DINA apartment in the San Borja Housing Project can be

identified and if possible the source, who identified the apartment

as a DINA location be located and interviewed. (u)

ape noted. that

advised

that

investigation

AMsclosed the exact address of BOSCH AVILA and

his Chilean mistress's apartment as Building #1

Apartment #24g

Torres de San Borja, Alameda,

Santiago, Chile.

ARMED

AND

DANGEROUS.

SECKET

РЕСКЕЛ

NH 50953 DocId: 32340890 Page 4

---

