# 124-10224-10189

## Page 1

124-10224-10189

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10189

HQ

105-72630-81, 82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/28/1962

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY, MEMO

V9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32298909

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Deputy

Assistant Secretary for Security

Department. of state

United States Customs and Border Patrol

representatives in Miomi were furnished the above

information

1 summary of the foregoing data, except for

that set forth in the fourth paragraph, was prallu furnisher

the Armys and Major Co

Co stidd, Defense Intelligence Agency,

1 - Direotor

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plons

1: Assistant Chief of staff for Intelligence

Department of the Army

Attentions Chief, security Division

1 = Director of Naval Intelligence

1 : Office of Special Investigations

Air Force

Attentiona

Chief, Counterintelligence Division

1 = Chief

Current Intelligence/Indications Center

Defense Intelligence Agency

The Pentagon

Washington 25, D. Co

1 - Deputy Commisstoner

Division of Investigations and Inforcement

Bureau. of Customs

1 " The Commissioner

Immigration and Naturalization Service

I - Mr twight E. Avis

Director

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division

Internal Revenue Service

* 2 .

Washington 25, D. Co

SECAS

ATHT

50953 DooId: 32298909 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 27 1962

TELETYPE

SECRET

12/22/44

shobirits

DECLASSIEY ON:

GAPE

Mr. Tolson...

Mr. Belmond-

Mr. Mohit-

Mr.

Casper

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad...

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Evans.

Mr. GaleC

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.--

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

10 - 27-62:

3-55

•CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Cita Ibien

DIRECTOR

/ 105-72630/

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

SLED

RELEASE O CIA INFORMATIO

o SHowing

FROM SAC, MIAMI

/105-1598/

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEpt To the InAcoss

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, IS - CUEA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS ON PO 2

RE MIAMI TEL TEN TWENTYSIX SIXTYTHO ENTITLED WILLIAM

MKH 2-6,981

JOHNSON, CARLOS HEVIA, UNSUBS, NEUTRALITY MATTER. "

| THIS MORNING, MM SIX THREE FIVE - S ADVISED THAT SUBJECT-S

BROTHER, MARCOSA DIAZ

LANZ, AND CARLOSYGARC IAS. BOTH CUBAN

EXILES ASSOCIATED WITH SUBJECT, DISCLOSED THAT GROUP UNDER

LEADERSHIP SUBJECT PLANS DEPART MIAMI TONIGHT WITH TWO BOATS,

THE EIGHTYTHREE. FOOT "QUSA" AND A SPEEDBOAT "MOPPIE" FOR CAY

SAL, BRITISH"BAHAMAS, ISLAND LOCATED ABOUT FORTY MILES NORTH

OF CUBA•

GROUP INCLUDES MARCE DIAZ, CARLOS GARCIA, TERNANDO BANGARA

BeASAN

CABEZAS AND OTHER UNIDENTI

AS WELL AS FRANK.

BEEN INVOLVED IN NUMEROUS CUBAN REVOLUBI GIONRY ADVENTURES.

GROUP PLANS CARRY AUTOMATIC RIFLES AND MAGHINE GUNS - AFTER

ARRIVING ÇAY SAL, A SMALL CONTINGENT FROM THIS GROUP WILL

END PAGE ONE

3-14-98-

NELASSIFIED BY 5668 SLA/ENE,

inted on.

10-29-602

DECLASSIFY GNI25X.

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTORS

0/91-6

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32298909

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE TWO

mappie

DEPART ON THE -99083"

UNKNOWN. TO INFORMANT.

SE CRAN

FOR DESTINAZION AND OBJECTIVE IN CUBA,

CABEZAS CLAIMED HAVE CIA CONNECTIONS, ACCORDING INFORMANT.

TODAY CIA, MIAMI, ADVISED IT HAS NO INTEREST IN THIS OPERATION

AND DESIRED OPERATION BE STOPPEDEX-U)

"ABOVE FACTS FURNISHED U. S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL.)

MIAMI CONDUCTING NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION BUT WILL MAINTAIN

LIAISON APPROPRIATE AGENCIES AND WILL PROMPTLY ADVISE BUREAU

PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS•

FOR INFO BUREAU, INFORMANT POSSESSED NO EVIDENCE INSTANT

MATTER RELATED TO PLANS OF WILLIAM JOHNSON AND CARLOS HEVIA

MENTIONED IN REFERENCED TEL®

CORR PE 2 LINE ONE WIT SLD BE "MOPPTE®

END AND ACK PLS

I pontino wally fermenteid to

5-193

PM OK FBI WA WS

OSE 17.CO1F06000

AI ESKER

ONE ENSEN BO AAMRINCE

TU DISC

DESE MAJOR RY: BRINSON

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

STATE RA LAUGHIN

10/28/620

NH 50953 DocId: 32298909 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Mr. Mohr

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Mr. Casper.

COMMUNICATIONS SECTIONS

Mr. Callahan

0612 8 1964

A TAP, NECKSON TI

A HAS N

TELETYPE

DECLASSIFICATIOK AND/OR

URGEN

10 - 28-62

1-37

PM

EST

RGT

RELEASE

MCIRONFORMATION:

IN THIS-

TO DIRECTOR / 105- 72630/

K

1ag9)

Tols BOISR

FROM SAC, MIAMI

1105-1598/

1 PAGE

Tha ch 15-92

Miss

(JFK)

PEDRO LUIS DIAL LANZ, IS DASH CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTER

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU TEN TWENTYSEVEN SIXTYTWO.

F/P

LAST NIGHT MM SIX THREE FIVE DASH S REPORTED THAT INSTANT

PLANS DELAYED DUE TO FAILURE OF FERNANDE

*ABEZAS TO DELIVER MONEY

FOR REPAIR OF ELECTRICAL POWER PLANT ON "QUSAN.

SUBJECT-S

BROTHER, MARC@S, ADVISED INFORMANT THAT GROUP STILL INTENT

PUT PLAN INTO EFFECT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

MIAMI ADVISED U.S: CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL OF ABOVE.

INFORMANT INSTRUCTED TO KEEP THIS

REC- 32

1702620

ALL PERTIENT DEVELOPMENTS.

MIAMI WILL KEEP BURTEX LOGORMER. NOV 14 1932

END AND ACK PLS

Warr

WA 2-/11

1-40 PM OK FBI WA JDS

TU DISC

Fion

Newpher

6 0 0N

2,1192

underter

Gilder

INS,

10/31/82

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MICROIN IS UNCLASS TED

ATHT

50953

DooId:32298909 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Mr. Tolson.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 2 8 196½

TELETYPE

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohi

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahen

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale:

Mr. Roseu

Mr. Sahivan

URGENT

10 - 28-62

1-37

PM

EST

RGT

Mr. Tavel

Mir. 'Trotter

TO DIRECTOR / 105-72630/

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

FROM SAC, MIAMI

/105-1598/

1 PAGE

Miss Gandy

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, IS DASH CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTER

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU TEN TWENTYSEVEN SIXTYTUO:

LAST NIGHT MY SIX THREE FIVE DASH S. REPORTED THAT INSTANT

PLANS DELAYED DUE TO FAILURE OF FERNAND CABEZAS TO DELIVER MONEY

FOR REPAIR OF CLECTRICAL POWER PLANT ON "QUSA". SUBJECT-S

BROTHER, MARCAS, ADVISED INFORMANT THAT GROUP STILL INTENT

PLIT PLAN INTO EFFECT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE+

MIAMT ADVISED US, CUSTOMS ANE BORDER PATROL OF ABOVE,

INFORMANT INSTRUCTED. TO KEEP THIS OFFICE ADVISED OF

ALL PERTIENT DEVELOPMENTS.

MIAMI WILL KEEP BUREAU INFORMED,.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 2/11

TU DISC

1-40 PM OK FBI WA JDS

leT 10129/62

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SINED

HEROIN, IS DRC..

DATE 11194 BYSSMACIVI

Y5FK

50953

DooId: 32298909 Page 6

---

## Page 7

- Liaison

• Masca

REC- 32

dead

MASSIFIED

DECLASSI

DALK

CEPT WI

'ORMARION CONTAINED

TASSIFIND

CHOWN

2-19-98

1000%

237432

far as

Masona

Dues

3k68 SID

(TF-12)

Gordos do

. 8

COMMI FERN

-.;"

Bejal si

weat on cooler co say

Padas indo obted doi

dock d4 pennile

reneral,

10/29/62,

information werenstuded in letter to

the Attorneyo

Copy for AAG-leagley conger ying Cuban"crisis.

Ol ger

200360

ATHT

50953

DoCT: 32298909

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

REC-

ON

DECLASSI

19: 000

DADA

• Nasco

Liatson

TION CONTAI

NOLASSIFLED

SHOW

TH u

Excopt

Brachers

BN PĐ: 2-19-98

ALL INFOR

100018

1p2/92 se8macivA

18540AH

cobeber 23:063

Kirts

cares

890483

the kenten

3-19-98

5468 SUSpICSR

(GER)

THRUSCI.

"CLASSIFE BY

DECLASSIFY. ON: 23

CONN SEEI

Well erie

H270h

200 221

1/20

Bands

MEON

VO TE:

This

information

NO PUNCH

in letter

Feneral, 10/29/62, copy PoT AAC-Yeagley

to the Autorneu

conger ning Cuban crisis.

13)

MAL ROOM SO RELETYPE

IT 50953

DonTd: 32298909

• Page 8

---

