# 124-10193-10032

## Page 1

124-10193-10032

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10193-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GOW, W. DOUGLAS

TO: DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE: CR 105-379908-76

DATE: 03/01/1990

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: LHO, RP, MNO, SOVIET PERMISSION, RETURN TO US

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/13/1999

Redact

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

25 OF 35 PAGES NAR, INC RPT

NH 50953 DocId:32177784 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SSP

CEASO

SRC'D

737-514

CIA" MAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. CS Sunitied

SECRET

Date:

TO:

1 - Mr. J. J. Berkin

91785811/2198

BY LIAISON

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668-520/pede

REASON: 1.5 (C, d)

DECLASSIFY ON: XOSC6DSF4

Pages -3 PEnlues 1-3, 33,3413.

From:

Subject?

March 1, 1990

Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director for Operations

Soviet/East European Division

Attn: 11

Chief/SOVOPS

NHB

3.IXOJ C5J

w.

Douglas Gow

Assistant Director in Charge

Intelligence Division

FLASH-RUN.

MARION COUNTERIVELICENCE - SOVIES UNION ES

This communication is classified "Secret" mite

4, 8,6,7, 8)

10, 11, 12, 13,

4 6, 292720

25;27,28, 19,30

32,74

,35

entirety.

Enclosed are copies of debriefing reports relating to

the captioned subject,

a former Major in the Second Chief

Directorate of the KGB who defected to the United states in

November

1989. FLASH RUN is presently being resettled by your

Agency

Copies of those debriefing reports which are relevant

have been furnished tol

I to the Defense Intelligence Agency,

the military

intelligence services, the National Security Agency, and to other

appropriate members of the Intelligence Community. E

Information from this source is being obtained on a

continuous basis, and copies of future reports from him will be

provided to you as they become available.

Such reports will also

be disseminated by this Bureau to other interested members of the

Intelligence

• Community-and to appropriate allied foreign

governments.

ENCLOSURE ATTACHED

Enclosures - 9ENGLOSUNE

Exec AD Adm, ..

- JUB: tInk

Exoc AD Inv.

(4)

Exac AD LES

AT 1IXYD

Asst. Dir.:

MORONA TO US LA DITTED ENORED'

SECRET

Adm. Servs.

Crim, inv.

Classified

ident.

• Insp.

Declassify

Intell.

"* Lab.

Legal Coun.

Olf. Cong. &

Public Affs.

Hes.

Mgnt.

Tach. Servs.

Tralning

Off. Lialson &

Int. Afis.

0ES/504

MEDELIVERED, BY LIAISON

PATEL

1/5/20

Telephone

Am.

Liaisen

DI 56555 Dow44:327/7784

Page 2

76(5

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

G- 3

OADR

91as36

3:1-94/05-RMB/nle

Ридна 1-3. Еля, Рие 1-3,3425; ?

we гере

---

## Page 3

00

SECRET

i to coRn intelligence senor i

Questions may be directed to Supervisory Special Agent

Jeffrey J. Berkin, CI-IB Unit,

Intelligence Division, FBIHQ,

telephone (202) 324-4587 (STO'III) -(

SECRET

- 2 -

HH 50953

DocId: 32177784

Page 3

---

## Page 4

00..

SECRET

intelligence Agency (ia)

NOTE:

Full Field investigation authorized November 25, 1989(5)

This communication provides CIAHQ's Deputy Director for

Operations of the Soviet/East European Division (SE)

complete xerox copy of our debriefings of the FLASH RUN subject / 57

to date.&

1053/504

Tuit

SECRET

= 3-

50953

DocId: 32177784

Page 4

---

## Page 5

917/98

CLASSIMED DY: 5666S 520/mde

NFASON:

1.6 (c,0l)

DECLASSIFY ON: XCJC6BFA

л.i

17930N.

cloloner, page an papes 34,35,1,2,5,

wer erneue fer Clus enti

ENCLOSURE:

54 ((5)

NH 50953

DocId: 32172784

Page 5

---

## Page 6

"THOSE,"

SECRET

405R

NOSENKO

Yuriy NOSENKO spent much of his career in the Sixth

Department of the KGB's Second Chief Directorate (SCD), which

was

responsible for tourists.

He spent only a short time

of his

career in the First Department, SCD, which was responsible for

American officials at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

NOSENKO had excellent family connections because his

father was Minister for the Shipbuilding Industry in the USSR.

That is how NOSENKO managed to become a security officer for the

Soviet delegation which traveled to Geneva, Switzerland, for arms

control talks. He defected to the United

States

from this

position.

The SCD was quite pleased when U.s. intelligence began

to believe NOSENKO was not a bona fide defector.

They were

particularly pleased when he was harshly interrogated by the CIA.

According to the source, NOSENKO was not sent to the

United States to be a false defector.

The source said that it is

against KGB policy to send an intelligence officer as a false

defector.

Also, the KGB would never have selected him

for such a

-mission because

his father is a high-level Party official.

The source doubts that NOSENKO ever saw OSWALD's

file.

According to the source, NOSENKO was not higher than a Captain or .

Major when he defected to the United States.

The source belleves

that NOSENKO may have tried to show himself more valuable to the

CIA than he really was.

At the time of his defection, NOSENKO

was mixing in high circles of Moscow golden youth. The source

believes he defected for material gain.

REFERENCES:

1. January 12, 1990, Debriefing.

Tape #2A.

counter #342-432. (5)

SECRET

NW 50953. DocId: DoeId:32177784

77

---

## Page 7

SECRET

- _LEE

HAI

NOSWALD AND WIFE MARINA

-. t

The source discussed the Lee Harvey OSWALD case with

former instructors at

Counterintelligen GlU)

Minsk KGB Higher School of

Following his defection to the USSR, OSWALD waS

resettled in Minsk, outside of Moscow.

He was placed under full

surveillance by the regional or territorial KGB in Minsk.

officers from the Second Directorate of the White Russian KGB

were in contact with Oswald and considered him an agent because

he would provide them with some information on his past. Marina

was also considered an agent.

Oswald resided very close to Victory Square and the KGB

Higher School in Minsk. His apartment was very nice by Soviet

standards.

Oswald was also interrogated several times by KEB

officers in Moscow. The source does not know what type of

information OSWALD provided to the KGB in Minsk or Moscow.

1.

OSWALD fell into deep depression in the USSR. He was

-homesick and wanted to return to the United States.

eventually received Soviet permission to return to the United

States with his wife Marina.

His KGB handlers did consider passing OSWALD to the

First Chief Directorate to be handled by a KCB residency in the

United States.

This proposal was ultimately rejected, however,

because OSWALD was considered too unstable.

According to the

source, the KGB did not handle OSWALD in the United States and

had no

further contacts with him.

Marina was considered

an agent, but she did not like to

cooperate with the KGB.

She was interested in OSWALD, but even

more interested in getting away from the soviet Union

and

poverty.

The KEB instructors who told the source about OSWALD

were (Coloner Torchuk, Colonel Sluzel

and colonel schlobochekov. (S

Ihese individuals used to be members de, the White Russian KGB

SCD Officers Aleksey YEGOROV and Leonid GOLUBOVSKIY also told

him

SECRET

H₩ 50953 DocId: 32177784

Page 7

---

## Page 8

23407

SECRET

According to the source, l

each one of these officers

76214

told him that the KGB did not handle Oswald after his redefection

to the United States, and

the KGB did not give any tasks to

OSWALD.

They also said that the KGB never gave OSWALD a task. to

kill President Kennedy.

The source said that rumors in the west suggesting the

KGB was involved in KENNEDY's assassination were absurd.

According to the source, the KGB would never risk the scandal of

assassinating a major world leader.

-

DEBRIEFER'S COMMENTS:

Needless to say, we will go back over his knowledge of

OSWALD in an effort to

acquire any additional information.

REFERENCES:

1. January 12, 1990, Debriefing. Tape #2A.

counter #240-342 (5)

SECRET

-2-

HH 50953

DoeId: 32177784

Page 8

-

25

---

## Page 9

..

_SECRET

U.S. Department of Justice

Federal Bureau of Investigation

In Reply, Please Refer to

- File No.

ATI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

*....

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPS}

WERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

(NEWARK, NEW JERSEY (5),

December 12, 1989

Classified by 05-FMBlmo

Declassity on: DADRO

вим

(SOVIET KGB OFFICERS] (S)

This

reine communication is classified "SECRET".

WARNING: THIS INFORMATION IS DERIVED FROM A SOURCE OF

EXTREME SENSITIVITY. DISCLOSURE OF THE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN MAY REASONABLY BE EXPECTED TO LEAD TO DISCLOSURE OF THE

SOURCE'S IDENTITY, AND TO THE LOSS OF THE SOURCE.

WARNING: THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS PROVIDED

FOR LEAD PURPOSES ONLY. IT'S ORIGIN MUST BE SUITABLY DISCUISED

TO PROTECT THE SOURCE.

WARNING: NO FURTHER DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION

MAY BE MADE WITHOUI FBIHO AUTHORIT

On December 11, 1989 NK

T-1, a source with whom there

- has been limited contact,

but who is in a position to know the

type of intormation which follows, and who is believed to be

reliable, próvided information on

the following individuals:

(FNU) SHEBARDIN, replaced KRYUCHKOV as head of First

Chief Directorate

(FCD) •

SHEBARDIN was formerly the resident

in

India and worked wit

/OLUBOVSKIY, the current head of the second

Chief Directorate's

KONSTANT VERGASOY WORD In ELLE

in that country (5)

Department, SCE

and is an ethnic Tatar.

Higher School in Moscow.

Three years ago he worked against the

U. S. consulate in Leningrad. He speaks no english.

()

SECRET

Classifi

by: G-3

Declassify

en: OADR

This document contains neither the recommendations no

conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

50953

DocId: 32177784

Page g

---

## Page 10

SECRET

D03-19334

ALEKSANDR YUREVICH,

PINIGIN is a Captain in Directorate

He

the Sixteenth Directorate for two years, then the lst section,

Bangi ret are so a e

is was born in 195v,

is a graduate of the FCD's Red

Banner Institute, second faculty (European languages), served in

Second Department, SCD, and finally transferred to the FCD

approximately three years ago:

He will be sent to Britain

another Commonwealth country in the near future. His father,

YURT

NIGIN, is a Colonel And the head of a department in the

KGB Inspection Directorate

0U3-19374

- ALEKSAN

SHURYGIN isan Officer in Directorate s, FCD.

Ke was born in Lipetsk circa 1953, has two front gold teeth, is

5'9" tall, has blond hair, and graduated from a Minsk technical

college.

He was initially in the second line of the territorial

KGB in Lipetsk, but then married the daughter of a local official

was sent to the FCD Red Banner Institute for three years S

-SERGEY STEPANOVICH

Directorate.

-KOROLEY is the head of the Fifteenth

e. Prior to this he was the First Deputy head of head

of the Ninth Directorate. He resides at 9 zoologicheskaya

LEsa near the Moscow 200. Many KGB generals reside at this

45R

has travelled many abroad many times. S

USSR (surveillance) :

RASHCHEPOY is the head of the Seventh Directorate

He is a Lieutenant General

"Ten years ago

was the head of the First Department, SCDS

- ANDREY

ASHCHTININ Is a case officer in Directorate K,

FCD specializing

1) the merchant marine. He graduated the. KGB

Higher School, Minsk, with the

source.

He was born in Leningrad, listh

and formerly worked at the Leningrad territorial KGB in the 4th

line. He graduated the FCD school three years ago. (S)

head of the want year a colone gratua

He graduated

IrOm the Baumanskiy Higher Technical Institute, then went to the

2nd faculty (european Languages), KGB Higher School, Moscow, then

was assigned as the deputy head, Second Department, SCD.S).

EUGENIX ANDREICH CUMEN UK 1- 125 eutenant colonel

and a deputy head

of the second Department, SCD.

He was formerly a

Ninth Directorate personal

later requested that he receive

a KGB higher education.

GUMEN YUK (S)

SECRET

2

50953 DooId: 32177784

Page 10

---

## Page 11

(SECRET

worked for one year

in the consular group, First Section, Second

Department, SCD

ALEXSANDRABOZENOY i a senior lieutenant in the secana

Department,

He is a graduate of the Baumanskiy Higher

Technical Institute, served two years in the Air Defense troops

(PVO), attended the

Dzerzhinskiy KGB Higher School, Moscow, eight

faculty for tho

years, then was assigned to the Second

Department.

SECRET

3 *

raisieur:

HH

50953

DocId: 32177764

Page

11

---

