# 124-10221-10286

## Page 1

124-10221-10286

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10286

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 185-789-431

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/16/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSA, LETELIER, ORLANDO, VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, ARREST,

BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953 DocId: 32340893 Page 1

---

## Page 2

VV. & EIA187

EIAL0IIGA857

00 RUFBI

DE RUEAI IA

#8118 3212057

ZNY

SS SS,

DEDERAL GOVERNMENT

162000Z NOV 76

CIA

TO/FEDERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIGATION

B

Пости ПідЕ

FEDERAL BUREAU CE IRVESTIGATIO

COMMUNICATIONS-SECTION

Assoc.

Dep E. Adm

NOV 16

TELETYPE

Asst. Dir.:

Ari

Ext.

Fin, f:

Gen: 1 ve

Ident.

Intri!.

Let

Pla-

DENIZEAN

1111.

13g.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

S. &

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Tr

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

SEE YKSRAAMARGUE

731599149

(JFK)

ChiLBOmB

SECRET. CITE CIA 944136

ATTN: Ro Ko MCHARGUE/GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

SECRET -WARNING NOTICE -SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS*

INVOLVED -NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO*-

CONTRACT ORS OR CONTRACT OR /CONSULTANTS

ST-133

FIRC I-312/83416-76.

REC 87185-789-79

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF TR

JOVO BROTHERS IN THE..

ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER:

# NOV 23 1976

No SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH IWO

HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE (S)

REPORTER. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN

OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

20 IN EARLY NOVEMBER 1976 RICARDO

MORAL E XINAVARETTE,

A HIGH OFFICIAL OF THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

INTELET GENG FICAND

PREVENTION (DISIP), SAID THAT ORLANDO

IS CHAULLA

Venezuer

Heit

NH 50953 DocId: 32340893 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGER2-RUEAIIA 8118 SECRET

AVILA, CUBAN EXILE UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA FOR THE CUBANA AIRLINES

BOMBING, HAD TOLD HIM THAI THE NOVO BROTHERS HAD BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR

THE BOMBING OF THE AUTOMOBILE OF ORLANDO LE TELI ER, FORMER*

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES. MORALES DID NOT AMPLIFY HIS

INFORMATION.. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:" "ACCORDING TO A NUMBER OF PRESS

venezuela

• ARTICLES, IGNACIO,

MAL OV O 'AND GUILLERMO

TO VO: HAVE BEEN

CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR COMPATRIOTS IN VENEZUELA AS BEING

RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO: LETELIER: IT IS

BELIEVED THAT YOUR BUREAU HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE NOVO

BROTHERS, IGNACIO AND GUILLERMO.)

3. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: FIRCI-312/03218-76 FROM

WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED AND (S)

WHOSE INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH FOREIGN OFFICIALS,

INCLUDING THOSE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, REPORTED THAT SINCE HIS

ARREST ON 15 OCTOBER BOSCH HAD ADMITTED TO AN OFFICIAL OF DISIP THAT

HE HAD CONTACT WITH THE NOVO BROTHERS IN MIAMI SHORTLY BEFORE

LETEL IER 'S ASSASSINATION. )

40 CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-20

BT

48118

NH 50953 DoCId: 32340893 Page 3

---

