# 124-10290-10100

## Page 1

124-10290-10100

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENC! :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10290-10100

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-77667-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DIRECTOR, CIA

DATE : 06/27/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CC, SECADES, ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y, TRA, ASSOC, BKG,

CONSPR, OVERTHROW BATISTA, DEFECT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NH 50953

11

DocId: 32306460

Page 1

---

## Page 2

GIA NAD TO 8/ SOTON TO

05b!

REX.

OnWATION

BlACKETS

- Liaison

IN REC QUEUIENT. ASSAMILI

- 5-22-78 SECREt N. Rallins

(NI) 105-77667

12

BY LIAISON

6-2-98

Date:

June 27, 1962

CROSAGE

CLASSINED BY 5668 SCOYKSA

ALI INPORMAPION COFTAINED

IS UICLASSITIED

CHOWM

HEREI

EXCOPT

A REINESE

SOIFICATION

SID

To:

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

(JA

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

Exom:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject:

ROLANDO I CUDELA Y SECADES

INTERNAL SECURITY • CUBA

7211520

Classied by ha

Deciman

CROR

S8032N

Poures PiEce

J8K)

Reference i9 made to your lotter dated April 12,

1961, concerning the subject, your

reference SCI-3/764, 709. fRaU

Enclosed is a copy of e memorandun dated June 18,

1962, at Mani, Florida, hich contains intormation concerning

the possible detectionzo: Cubela fron the Guben Governent:

pg(u)

MAI

Cos it

JUN 2 3

advised our Mrami Difice that Cubela plans to go

• to 0)

, following the termination of the Congress in

and wants

to meet him there.

aid he alreedy had pies co

to burope on June 22s

Strated States

and stated that,

be of any service to the

Coverment or assist Cubela, he would arrango to

FE DecessAry. He said hellcould bel contacted

Tolson

Belmont

vich

TOM formarty was

that he had been in close, contact

gned to

mia)

Mohr .

after

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

2 Paris (Enclosures 2) (See Note, Page 3)

Malone

Rosen

1- London (Enclosures

2) See Note

SEE NOTE,

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

RAM: djw.

Miami (See Note, Page 2)

• Foreign Liaison Unit (route

TE 5510005

through for review)

Holmes

Gandy

INZBECLON

IT 50953

DoCT: 32306460

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SH

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

SECRET

was trensferred to

was in contact with

at the Embassy in Havana.

In Mexico when Cubele talked ta

In speaking of

his

desire to

copperate,

emphasized thet he does not

want

think he is doing

something behind

back. Our Miant

office advised

Ing t the data furnished

by him would be made available to the proper United States

agency and that his comments concerning

rould be relayed

to that agency

hosed that he was returning to New York

City from Miami end said thet, in the event he received any

additional information concerning Cubela, he would forward it

to the FBI. He furnished ous Miami Office e

, business card of

и)

4)

ked whom he should contact if he received

emergency Incortation

while in Paris, and our Mlani Office,

which had had no previous contact with

informed him

that he should go co the United States Embassy there and speak

to someone in the legal Attache's Office:

12(4)

Since it appears that

1s of operational

Interest to your Ageney, we are

talking no

steps to direct his

activities. If he does

volunteer information concerning Cubela

in the future, you will be promptly advised. We are instructing

our representative in Paris that. in the event

contacts

his office, he shoule

2

SEC

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32306460 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Stice 39034

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

CrOO

If you have not already done so, you may desire

to establish contact with

and furnish him specific

Instructions as to how the

= should be handled.

Enclosure

ATTENTION: LEGAL ATTACHES, PARIS AND LONDON, AND SAC, MIAMI

Single copies of Miami airtel and menorandum 6/18/62

are enclosed for Legal Attaches, London and Paris.

Legal

the appropriate

Embassy if

Attacho: Pario should rofer

official at the

does contact your office.

7(44)

(4)

NOTE:

Classified "Secret"

Cubela has been President of the Cuban University

Student Federation (FEU) for many years and was also a leader of

the Revolutionary Directorate, a group which fought with Castro

to overthrow Batista. For several months we have been receiving

reports that Cubela is fed up with Castro and wants to defect.

SECR

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32306460 Page 4

---

