# 124-10230-10467

## Page 1

124-10230-10467

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10230-10467

MX

105-3702-51

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MX

HQ

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/30/1963

2

SEE FBI 105-82555-879

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B\

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

V9.1

HH 52333 DocId: 32179757

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• FD-36

12-13-561

CIA HAC MIN DOLECTION TO

IN inis

EX CEOT :

Transmit the following in

FBI

SECR

17/30/63

3-17-03

Kals lay

2-22-93

Classified

1 by

4803 RADICL

Declassify

of:

Via - CABLE

NO.: 196 BY:

per

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

BUFILE ONE ZERO FIVE DASH EIGHT TWO FIVE FIVE FIVE. B

Glessified ky

0+R7.28-83

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS DASH R.

Declaser

- Strawdermis

RE. TELEPHONE CONVERSATION WITH ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. C.

4

SULLIVAN. TODAY. FOLLOWING IS IN CONFIRMATION.

EWINSTON SCOTT, HEAD OF CIA OFFICE HERE, REPORTED THIS MORNING

THAT LUIS ECHEVERRIA,

ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, HAD ADVISED

THAT& GILBERTO ALVARADO UGARTE

CHAD SIGNED STATEMENT IN WHICH HE

ADMITTED HE HAD NEVER SEEN OSWALD HERE IN CUBAN CONSULATE ON

SEPTEMBER ONE EIGHT OR ON ANY OTHER DATE AND THAT HE HAD NEVER SEEN

ANY MONEY. PAID TO OSWALD OR ANYONE ELSE. IN CUBAN CONSULATE. HE

ALSO ADMITTED THAT HIS STATEMENT TO EFFECT HE HAD CALLED OUR EMBASSY

ALL INF DILATION CONTAIRED

URBIN IS UNCLASSITICD LION

NO 2900H018 90860

SEVERAL TIMES IN UNSUCCESSFUL EFFORTS TO REPORT INFORMATION RE

OSWALD WAS FABRICATION AND THAT SUCH CALLS NEVER MADE.

ALLEGED MOTIVE BEHIND ALVARADO'S STORY WAS THAT HE INTENSELY

DISLIKES CASTRO AND HOPED TO PROVOKE UNITED STATES INTO THROWING

CASTRO OUT OF CUBA. ENO INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO INDICATE THAT

NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WAS BEHIND ALVARADO'S FABRICATED STORY

SCOTT ADVISED THAT REPRESENTATIVE OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE

SERVICE

DID NOT ACTUALLY PARTICIPATE IN

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO BUT WAS PRESENT IN ADJOINING ROOM

AND

105-5

TOLD HIM HE IS

CONSULTED BY MEXICANS.

SCOTT SAID

105-3702

1-

89-6

(5)

SEARCHED...

... INDEXED.

(3)

Special Agent in Charge

3ECREP

NH 52333 DocId: 32179757 Page 2

---

