# 124-10225-10118

## Page 1

124-10225-10118

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10118

HQ

105-114543-1ST NR 164

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

TO:

CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 06/11/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JURE, EXILE GROUPS, PLAN, INFILTRATE CUBA, DUTIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

ITT 50953

DocId: 32299338

12

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

TION

REPORT

NIP

ORN

AHION

REPORT

CENTRE INTELLIGENCE AGEN

This caterial contains informetion alecting the Netional Detense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18; J.S.C. Secs. 793 and 19s, tho transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person 1s prohibited by_law.

S-E-CRIE-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba/Venezuela/Dominican Republic

SUBJECT

Plans of/Cuban Exile Groups for

CIA HAS ON OBJECTiON Fion Against Cuban

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

ExCopT FoR the

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

BRACKETS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM

6-25-97

DATE OF

Mid-April - 6 May

' 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

REPORT NO.

CS-3/583,533

DATE DISTR.

11 June

1964

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

77463865691293

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0-22-948Y Sps maC/isR 105-112098 (SNFE)

(25 May 1964)

"FIELD REPORT" NO.

OEL-38129

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

1.

from a regular source, probablys

reliable, from persons mentioned in the report.

1617

CHope Bspe1gs

In a private conversation on 4 May 1964 a member of the Frente

de Obreros Revolucionario Cubanos (FORC, Front of Revolutionary

Cuban Workers) claimed that the following exile groups were

conniving to take action against Cuba within the next few months:

the Junta Revolucionaria, Cubana (JURE

Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

the Movimiento de Recuperacion Revoricionaria (MRE,. Movement for

Revolutionary Recovery) ; the Ejercito Rebelde ER

Rebel Army) ;

and the "Alliance" of the Movimiento Revolucionario Popular

Popular Revolutionary Movement), the Segundo Frente Nacional del

Escambray (SFNE, Second National Front of the Escambray, and

Alpha 66.

2..

JURE, the ER,

and the "Alliance" were planning to enter Cuba to

prepare the

groundwork for internal insurrection, while the MRR

to carry out diversionary hit-and-run attacks on the Cuban

Meanwhile, the FORC was building up its own clandestine

organization among

the workers in Cuba, its aim is to organize

sabotage and slow-downs in cuban

industries, thus paving the way

for an eventual general strike.

FORC claims to have the support

of the Confederacion de Trabajadores Venezolanos (CTV, Venezuelan

Workers' Confederation) and of the Confederacion Latinoamericana

Sindicatos Cristianos

(CIASC, Latin American Christian TraC.:

Union.)

105-142

NOT RECORDED

3

May

sation,

c67300"25,00f, Who is independent of

any exile organi,

i11 exile groups, including JURE, have

the

active backing

of

the united states.

JURE was said to have

received arms nd other material from the United

States in recentl

months.

58

JUL 2

1964

S-EC

-E-T

NO FORZIOR

DISSEM

RE: JUN 26 1964

3

50953 DooId: 32299338

Page 2

---

