# 124-10217-10492

## Page 1

124-10217-10492

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10492

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-114543-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

JURE, EXILED LEADERSHIP, INTERNAL SABOTAGE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NY 50953

DocId: 32296716

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

LEGRAM INCORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

COUNTRY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

information

affecting

the National Delense of the United States

the meaning

of the

Espionage Laws, Tille 18, U.S:C 5868.

contains

794,

transmission

revelation

of which in any manner to an unauthorized

person, is prohibited

CLASSIFICATION: DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

LATIN AMERICA

REPORT NO.

TDCS -3/541,997

SUBJECT

ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT

DATE DISTR.

28 MARCH 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE

INFO

PLACE &

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10-13-04 BY 508 MAC

(JFIC)O,

REFERENCES

96384

DATE ACQ.

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

FROM "REGULAR SOURCE, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING

SOURCE

(5)

ORLANDO CASTRO

bevolacionaria

DIVISION OF LURE. AND ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN VENEZUELA, REVEALED

THAT JURE'S

PRINCIPAL LEADERS OUTSIDE CUBA WERE:

SLD KSK

8-2-97

JFK.

MANOLO

RAY - HEAD OF NURE;

cuba

Leader of Jure

RAUL/CHIBAS - FORMER OFFICER IN CASTROIS REBEL ARMY, QUIR

NOW RESIDENT NEW YORK. HE CONTROLS

PLANNING 0L6

MILITARY OPERATIONSEG- 61 / 05-1142

ROGEITU TINEROS -

SOÊNT IN MIAMI.

3 1963

SCOBEDINATOR URE'S CUL

Florida

UNDERGROUND ACTIVILIES IN CUBA;

JOSE SOMEZ - FORMERLY OF CTC (CONFEDERACION DE Traba jadores

12024

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP 1

SECRET,

Miami, Florida

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

Encluded from euromatis

downgieding and

declossification

DIA

AIR

NIC

AID

USIA

OC!

ONE

OCR

ORR

• 001.

1-00

EXO

STATE/ INR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

INFO

RMATION

he routing slip for

D info

action

date...

by...

FBI.

"ENS. TREASURY

REPCINCLANT

REPORT

TELEGRAM

169

105-114543

(15-20)

1963

ATHT

50953 DooId: 32296716 Page 2

---

## Page 3

+-287-10492

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MAR 2'9

IN

96384

PAGE •

2

TRABAJADORES DE CUBA) •

RESIDENT IN. MIAMI:

I. ESPECIALIST

IN TRADE UNION AFFAIRS;

ORLANDO CASTRO - RESIDENT IN CARACAS;

Hea.

JOSEKSAN MARTIN - RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO. FORME? MEMER

FRAU MARTIN'S PARTIDO AUTENTICO

2.

JURE IS ENCOURAGED BY INCREASING SUPPORT FOR ITS

THESIS THAT INTERNAL RESISTANCE ALONE WILL BE EFFECTIVE IN

OVERTHROWING CASTRO. JURE RECEIVES FIRM BACKING FROM THE

CONFEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES VENEZOLANOS (CTV), WHICH ALSO

PROMOTES SUPPORT FOR JURE FROM OTHER LATIN AMERICAN LABOR

LEADERS. IT IS ANTICIPATED CTV WILL SOON GRANT FINANCIAL AID

TO JURE•

3. AT A MEETING OF TRADE UNION LEADERS IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

IN LATE FEBRUARY 63, IT WAS ALSO AGREED THAT ONLY INTERNAL: :

INSURRECTION WILL SOLVE THE CUBAN PROBLEM. ALTHOUGH JURE

WAS NOT MENTIONED BY NAME AND NO OFFERS OF AID WERE MADE,.

JURE • IS EXCOURAGED BY THIS DEVELOPMENT. MEETING WAS ATTENDED

BY ANGEL

MAOLAN DE. THE PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DOMINICANO

(PRD) =

BY ARTURO KAUREGUI OF THE ORGANIZAC ION REGIONAL.

INTERAMERICANA DE TRABAJADORES (ORIT), AND BY REPRESENTATIVES

OF: CTV. AND THE PUERTO RICAN UNIONS.

Dominkon s

4.: GOVERNOR MUNOZ MARIN OF PUERTO RICO IS ALSO A FIRM

SUPPORTER OF JURE.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NH 50953 DocId: 32296716

Page 3

---

