# 124-10202-10468

## Page 1

124-10202-10468

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10202-10468

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-2831-1542

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/18/1973

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C

Redact

05/12/1998

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

v9.1

HH 50953 DocId: 32290192 Page 1

---

## Page 2

110-107-5

MENT

Memorandum

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2831)

DATE:

*SIDE FOR

1-18-03 SIFICATION

ACTION

JOLEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-93)

SUBJECT:

MEYER LANSKY 47SD

(DRO)

(067111-39. 971409 33S)

АУТИЗО 40Ы 29:1 9У 901

CLASSE

BY DEPLED:

820/85

DATE:

Enclosed for forwarding to New York is a list

the Camino Real Hotel, Mexico City,

11-8/9&10-72.4

Remyairtel 11-24-72, and New York aixtel, 10-25-72(u

As was reported, I

réported informa

Fion from a very secret source (classify SECRET - not to be

disseminated) :

An unknown male, presumably American, contacted

the Cuban Embassy,

Mexico

City,

on or about 11-9-72 and

dentified himself as the Subject's attorney.

He wanted

them to ascertain from Havana if Subject would be allowed to

COS

avel to Cuba where he wished to go and to "live in peace."

contact was made from the Camino Real Hotel, Mexico City.

It

was

indicated that the request would be relayed

ito: Havana. (S)

to this

matter?

79815

MEX-258

furnished

arriving

the Camsno Real

ENCL,SU

Bureau

(Enc.

Foreign Liaison Desk)

no fur

informatzn

nationrelatin

EXСEБЙ МИДУЕ ЭНОМИ

enclosed listEf te McIzaILTE

48/9819-72

Mes in aste con

City

REG-2I G2

ST-103

RECEIED

B3 S3P-5

6/21/29

DATE OF REVIEV

EXT.

a let dlane to NyA/-le to iMmREASON

Theme El

eit died

131+73 GEE/L

PAYE OF REVIEW

Savings bonas Regular

be Payroll;

wings Pla

TAY

ATHT

70953

DoCT: 32290192

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEX 92-93-C0

SECRET

forwarding this list to New York as one of the names thereon

may have some significance to the New York Office:

The names

are alphabetical by day, "procedencia" is home area,

"S.R." or

"sin

reservacion" means

they arrived without reservation, and

"cliente,"

means reservation was made by the person himself. (&

The following comment refers to information that an

attorney named "Bernabey" (phonetic) was going to attempt to

arrange for Subject's residence in Mexico. As reported, this

almost certainly refers to BERNABESJURADO, probably the most

famous criminal attorney in Mexico

It is considered that

JURADO's name would be among the first mentioned by persons

with' any knowledge of the criminal scene in Mexico. It is not

considered that he would be a logical choice to arrange a

delicate immigration matter, nor that he would be recommended

for such by anyone knowledgeable about conditions in Mexico.(5)

for some time that SAMUEL

• GIANCANA, BuFile 92-3171, has

an excellent arrangement permit-

ting him to more or less

although officially declared undesirable. • Comment on

'reside permanently in MeX Co this f-3.7

situation has 'appeared in the national magazines. Although

LANSKY is not known to have contacted GIANCANA on his previous

trips to Mexico, GIANCANA would be the obvious logical choice

to contact concerning seeking asylum in Mexico, legally or

illegally.

In this vein, MEX-334-PCI, of questionable

reliability, commented

[-4-73 that GIANCANA had a foolproof

method of getting in and out of Mexico and and

(Se)

He claimed that LANSKY did consult with GIANCANA

concerning coming to Mexico, but did so too late and there

was not time to make any sort of arrangement.(8 Cu

It appears that none of the information herein can

be reported for dissemination and any extensive investigation

might also tend to prejudice these sources.

In addition,

investigation concerning LANSKY in Mexico is now somewhat

historical; however, it is considered of some benefit to

identify Subject's supposed lawyers, either in Mexico or the

U.S.

SECRET

NH 50953 DooId:32290192 Page 3

---

## Page 4

[MEX 92-93)-C%)

SECREL

irrently ill, is known to enjoy an

int imấ te

relationship with the Mexican attorney JURADO,

and

•will be"

"discreetly contacted to determine if he knows

of

(any representation

1 by JURADO Of American hoodlums. (

-3

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32290192 Page 4

---

