# 124-10114-10010

## Page 1

1124-10114-10010

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIRICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10114-10010

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109090-356

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1964

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT:

WC, ASSISTANCE, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH AND CIA

LTR TO LEG, PA

NW 50953 DocId: 32156250 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ene!

Princet and

OTTONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GUVERIVMENT

Memorandum

Kese

• ENCLOSURE

TO :

Director, FBI (62-109090)

Secret, DATE:

10-28-64

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM :

Legat, Paris

(62-148) (P.)

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON

IN THIS DOCUMENT

THE ASSASSINATION OF

Eperst Buse

PRESIDENT KENNEDY

(K 3/10/99)

DELEACH

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a self-

explanatory

memorandum along with a copy of the letter in Spanish

nentioned in the memorandum.

The Paris Office has referred this matter to

High General Staff (HGS), Madrid, Spain, with a request

for investigation by that service in an effort to locate

and identify the sender of the letter; and to interview him

for any data

he may be able to supply.

The results of this

Paris request

of the HGS will be promptly reported when

available. gU),

3 - Bureau (Enc. 2)

(1 - Liaison

ENCLOSURE

Section)

1 - Paris

HPW :HD

(4)

N Cutleri

Oh with / xeras

service lan Sa

RoCE

Lincolned aseat Calde

418P

twilities to De a Paris;

1c of 16-404

CaICIES

XEC- 53

CES

35

4977

AND ITS

102098

SI-7P (S

DA 2/3127

62-109090-356

Гюст 30 1964

+24-73 9803-002k

lestica by

/ JFK Special

нОл

533sbH.e

Classified by

Exempt frem

Category

Date of Declassifica

on Indosite

DON ADRIAE.

REViEWED

Ba1|11

Searet

3

15 33

GECEINEI

HH

50953

DoeId: 32156250

Page 2

---

## Page 3

RET

2290KX1

20 October 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Norman Philcox

Legal Attache

CIA HAS NO OR ISCTION TO

DECLAS

+ 3!

RELEASE UT

FROM

Eleas

SUBJECT

Crank Letter Concerning warren

Document

commissiur

(< 3/10/97)

has sent usja copy of the attached

Spanish-language letter addressed Ep/ the American Ambassador

France

to spain, and signed by one Antilin/REPIS, alleging in the :

first paragraph that the author has some information of Interest

Spain

to impart.

After opening the second paragraph by saying that he

had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the

• author states:

"There (apparently Paris),.

In the home ci

some American

which they say was swiped from the warren

Commission and which is certainly prejudicial

for President Johnson.

I have it on good

authority that they are currently trying to sell

. to no less than

the Director .of "Paris-Match.

Someone from the Embassy of the United Kingdom

In Paris is involved in the

matter.

The author closes by suggesting that an advertisement be inserted

In a Madrid newspaper if there be any interest in further detalls

There are no traces from Madrid on Abil In PERIS, which

according to

1s almost certaihly an alas.

Needless (s)

to say there is no return

address on the letter for envelope

was mailed from Barceiona on 26 September 1964.

forwarded us a copy of the letter on the off chance. that we may

has [SI,

have received similar allegations; in such casel

would ES

appreciate learning the details so that they might inform the

ambassy. It was also sudasted that we show you inle jouerst

has no traces on Antilin PERIS

00 :

United states sent serenan

Attn: Mr. John Hanly

42-101096.35605

1;

SEGRET..

50953

DoeId: 32156250

Paue 3

---

