# 124-10071-10230

## Page 1

124-10071-10230

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10071-10230

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-109060-5670

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEGAT, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/11/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JFK, SEARCHING, SUSPECT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

06/30/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId:32143229 Page 1

---

## Page 2

43 MOW28-071

SLEADE

Tolson

DeLoach.

Modir.

Bighop:

* Conge

i Call adi

# CoBrad

D

O AIRGRAM

to CABLEGRAM

сОРУ

GRADIO" "EATELETYPE

Hoimes:

Gandy

STATE 13

URGENT 8411-67

Declassity on:

TO DIRECTOR (62-109060)

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NR. 461

виббиза

ref

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY DALLAS,

10

NO O6.-:

CIA HAS

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

TEXAS, NOVEMBER 22, 1963, MISCELLANEOUS = INFORMATION

CONCERNING.

RE MEX CABLE AUGUST. 8 LAST.

8

*THE NEWS*, MEXICO CITY ENGLISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER

THIS

TODAY HAD FRONT PAGE STORY ENTITLED FSEARCH ON FOR MISSING Spain

NEWSMAN.* ARTICLE STATED THAYER, WALDO LEFT MEXICO CI TA

ALI INFORNATION CONTAINED

UNEXPECTEDLY EARLY IN JULY AND WAS LAST HEARD FRONIN A

WHERE SHONY OTHERWISE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED EXCEPT

TEXUS

LETTER POSTMARKED LOS ANGELES WITH NO RETURN ADDRESS.

ARTICLE REPORTED UNCONFIRMED REPORTS: THAT WALDO

PLANNED TO GO TO CHILE, AND STATED ME WAS KNOWN TO BE

INVESTIGATING FOR NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT ATTORNEY GIMMETOR

GARRISON RE CAPTIONED MATTER.

HEAD OF CIA STATION

MEXICO GITY, REITERATED TODAY THA

REC 46

62:109060

5670

1g60 ge

Tos catere

Exempi

Silication iri

TCHA

OR

14 AUG 16 1967

Pavy ok

Ty the all ee contained in the above me a

d outside the Bureau, it in's

ed thattit

witably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic

HH

50953

DocId: 32143229

Page 2

---

## Page 3

4=3

D AIRGRAM

CODE CODED CO REGRET

XX CABLEGRAM

RADIO ON

Tolson -

DeLoach

Mohs -

Bishop .

Casper -

Callchan

Contad -

Felt —

Cale -

Rosen _

Sullivan

Tavel ...

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

PAGE 2, FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NR. 461

HE HAD BEEN ADVISED

THAT WALDO WAS REQUESTED TO LEAVE MEXICO. CIA,

MEXICO, HAS RECEIVED REQUEST FOR BACKGROUND INFORMATION

FROMYCIA,

WHICH MIGHT INDICATE WALDO'S PRESENCE

AND WILL ADVISE A HEADQUART

CABLE OF

BUREAU'S INTEREST

IN WALDO'S WHEREABOUIS.

THIS OFFICE WILL SEND COPY OF ABOVE ARTICLE TO BUREAU

TODAY.

RECEIVED: 11:49 PM HFL

CE. MR. SULLIVAN

BRD CC: MR. BRENNAN

GUESECRET

the isline con pred in the aure message is to be seeminated bras ide the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitabi

NH 50953

DoeId: 32143229

Page 3

---

