# 124-90135-10329

## Page 1

1124-90135-10329|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10329

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-99

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 03/10/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

LET

y9.1

HH. 50953. DooId: 32336934

Page 1'

34

---

## Page 2

Section

REC: 60

705-82298 -

2X-108

99

CONENDENTIAL

ACTIOTES AND

APPROPRTATI

ROUTING SLIP ON

ADVISED BY

OFFICES

1178U SECRET

BI LIAISON

MASSIFIED BY6922 WAR/O 6/21|18

Dated

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY 3

March 10, 1967

Dircator

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

Cenoral Indelligence Agenoy

Attentzone

populy Director, Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subjecte

BLOY GULTUREEE ZURVORO

MACIGAT (JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINERENZAZ ABCURITY CUEA

Massi

FESSIN 16 UNCEAS:P: EO

EXCRET WORNE SHOWN

Declassify

OADR 112S,

vie lidtoon channels

Reference to nace to your request of February 6,

1962,

in whtoh you requested

as to ullether ho had been in contaco in Cuba on January 18.

subject be Interviewed

2061. m112

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

Ints matter was casually brought up during our

briar

view with the mblect on February 16, 196l, in such a manner.

to crouse ony surptoton on his part.

Subjeot stated Fre

one not acquainted with ony of these individuals, although de

was possible that he may have not them in Cuba.

he: spend

Subject atated

196%,

two weeks prior to his flight fron Cube on January

in kavand preparing for his

depor cure.

only contecta during

to tnatoated thes

that pariod were with the grouprof mi

507.

# close aides who accompanted hin to the United Staugs.

297

Thie is for your

snortion

CIA HAS NO DOU

CLASSIFIED BY 5768 SLOSE

DECLASSIFICATION/

5655-

ECLASSIFY ON: 25X

THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKENS

supporter who defected.

subject is brontent Batiste opponant bedrai

San Antonio is interviewing hiro

asked us to interview him concerning any contact he may have

had with the to abone montined naividuals.

These tuo individals

speculatee

turned in in Oubor

subJect may have turned themer

51

MAR

1 6 1960

MAIL ROOM

TELÉTYPE UNIT,

yes as tie

NOTINEA

CON

SECRETI

HTH 50953 DOCTA: 32336934

Page 2

---

