# 124-10284-10171

## Page 1

124-10284-10171

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10284-10171

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83720-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BARRON, JOHN R

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/31/1959

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

EPE, INTV, ARVIER, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL, AKA,

EMP, RES, ASSOC, POLIT, INTEL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, CIA

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS

v9.1

NH 52333

13

DocId: 32303659

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263*( (Rey. *3-3-50):

-!

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

VANT

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MITA

TITLE OF CASE

MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL

ARVIERS

ala

Maria vendizaba

"Nehe"

Mendizabal

112833/59

REPORT MADE BY

SOHN Ro

BARRON

CHARACTER. OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/9 - 12/28/59

INTERNAL SECURITY

REGISTRATION

ACL

CUBA

CUa

TYPED BY

ems

REFERENCES:

Buted

to Mind

Miami

ostober

letter to Director, November 4, 19591-9453-144

Miami

report or SA

JOHN L BARRON, November 23, 1959,

captioned:

UNSUBS; MARCOS FERE? JIMENEZ - VIOTIM,

KIDNAFPING - CONSPIRACY (BUrIe 709452).

115/96

CLASSIFIED BY S668 SID/CCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

LEADS

copies mage of

of? Inner

ALU INFOPMATION CONSATNES

REQUEST

OF' BUREAU

xie Bugle 62-117290

EXCEE LINZINE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

The Bureau Is requested to refer instant

matter

Department for decision regarding the

subJect's

activities while employed as

& secretary

ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ and

regarding her

admission that she furnished information

TO ALBERIO BAYO, SR, cescriped In Inatant report,

concerning incormation obtained during her employment,

There exists a possible violation of the Registration

over which this Bureau has. juisdiction.

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

COPIES M

IN CHARGE

CTA HAS NO OBJECTION, TO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau (RM)

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIORS

- 83720-

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIOI

- 1092031

3. - New

York (RN)

IN THRS DOCUMENT

JAN 6

: 1960

11-7-877 - 1850 EXCEpT I 5 pq. B

AND pa:

C. (BRACILETS)

62-11817

JM 6-25-07

OPIES DESTROYED

INS,

New York

NO.

A-11039008)

8-1-97

4 - Miamd

Brainional 13 1974l

1e- -11-300

1-7-4755K)

1: d099391

StATO LIA, 62, 0N1, ESI

7

9452-09

N

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN /09-285-

REC- 26

EX-I17

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

ADD. DISCAMIMATION

fitr

HH 52333 DorId: 32303659

Page 2

, mM

MAN SECRET

---

## Page 3

VM 97-300

SECRET

MIAMI

AT MIAMI

FLORIDA

Will report the decision rendered by the

Department.

ADWINISTRATIVE

Information copies have

beed

turnished

Che

New York Office, Inasmuch as the subject of this

Investigation was tomerly employed as a secretary

to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENE , hOm

the New York OffIce

currently investigating.

This investigation 18 being placed in a

pending Inactive status, pending departmental decision

concerning the subject's activitles while she was

employed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president

MARCOS PEREZ JIVENEZ•

The Bureau is advised that investigation

appearing in this report conducted prior to october 9,

1959, was made concerning the subject inasmich as she

was suspected of plotting against Marcos pared fineNe?

to arrange his abduction, the details of which have

been reported in reference Miami report dated November 23s

1959 (Buf1le 79452).

MY 1-2, utilized in the detalls of this

report was interviewed by Special Agents JOHN R.

BARRON and WILLIAM B..

HOLLOMAN, at which time she

Identified herself asla CIA Informant in Havana (5)

land stated that she

that a la co

3 employed as a secretary:

ALBERTO BAYO, JR. L

The Bureau is advised that ald informants

famillar with Latin Amerisan activities were contacted,

and no Information was received Indicating that the

subject was active in cuban intelligence activities.

in rece

Bo

• COVER PAGE

SECRET

ATHT

52333 DocId:32303659 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MV 97 - 300

SECRED

The Interviews appearing In this report with

Miami case file 7-475, captioned:

JIVENEZ - VICTIM: KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY (Buf11e

7-9452).

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MOM T-2 18 [CIA, Havana,| 00(4)

Information contained®

In Butel to Miami dated

October 9, 1959

MM. T-2 18

JCIA Informant

1n"

Havana,

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL

INFORMARION

7-475-9

Instant report, page 7.

MM T-3 1S JANEL SUMMERS.

District Manager's Clerk,

Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company,

Miami Beach, Florida

(nature of information)

Instant report, page

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and they were con-

cealed only in

those Instances where identitles must

be concealed.

12.

C*

- COVER PAGE

SECRET

HH 52333

DocId: 32303659

Page 4

---

## Page 5

• PD-202 (Rey. 3-3-59%

UNITES STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUST CE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRED

Copyto: 1 = INS, New York (RM)

Report of: SA JOHN R. BARRON

Date:

December 31, 1959

Field Office File #:

97 - 300

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOM

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

BRACKETS

File

Title:

SLD/KSp

Mi am

7-9452

109-283

ILED

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

MADNE SHOWN

ODERRWISE

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Synopsis:

Subject, MARIA JOSEPA MENDIZABAL ARVIER,

born November 26,

1916 In Cuba,

Ingration and Naturalization Service Allen

Registration NO.

A-11039008. while employed in Miami

Beach, Florida as secretary to MARCOS PERE N

ex-

Venezuelan president, reported by Mu T-l to be plant and

furnishing information to ALBERtO B410g

Iro regarding the

activitles of PEr DIMENS.

My descraped BAXO 25

bolng active in Intolligence masters for the Cuban govern

Subject intervlewed and admitted association with

BAYO. I

1/5/96

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SiD/Gi

DETAILS:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (

(Tre)

This investigation

is predicated on Information

furnished

by MA TI

*a United states goverment agency

which conducts intelligence invent leavens pizalal;

which advised

on October 9, 1959 that the subject.

was in contact wich ALbate BATO.

Thos

described by

MM T-1 as being enraged In

Inteligence activity for the

Cuban goverrment

SUBJECT'S

INMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION STATUS

WILLIAM D. METHAN and reflected that on Novenber 2, 1956

one MARIA MENDIZABAT, A11-039-006, date of brea

November 26, 1916,

In Havana, Cuba,

filed an "Application

for Immigration Visa and Alien Registration" at the

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property, of the FBI and is loaned. to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be, diel buted aide your agency.

HH 52333 DorId: 32303659

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 97-300

SECREO

American Enbassy, Havana, Cuba.

In this application MARLA MENDIZABAL rurnished

her place of birth as

Ceba del Agua,

Havana,

Cuba,

claimed that she was know by no other names.

occupation was furished as

o orlace clerk

and

her last permanent address as

"Avenue 19 Number 8203

€ 84, Marianao, Havenas

Her destination and

address in the United States were

furnished care of

the

Latina Shipping Company, Limited, Ill wall Street,

New York City, but this was crossed through in Ink,

and the address 321 Last 43rd Street,

New York 1f

New York, was

marked in.

She possessed Cuban Passport

Number 21566g

Issued September 20,

1955s by the Cuban

Ministry of State

at Bayand,

cuba

walld unth September 20,

1957.

She

was described

a3/ follows:

Race

White (Cuban)

Sex

Female

Height

5 feet 5 inches

Weight

120 pounds

Ha1r

Brown

Eyes

Brown

Complexion

Faig

Marital Status

Divorced

Minor children

Sons PEDR

RNANDO

FERNANDEZ

• APPROX.

194₴

cubA

KARNANDEZ

INAL (ages not

Luni sheo)

1 Apps0i

She claimed further in thia application that

she had previously applied for and was

granted visas

to

enter the United States during 1952 and 1956, but the

dates of her previous 30journs 6o

the United: States

were not furnished.

MARIA vENDIZABAL submitted in support of

this application a copy of her Certificate of Birth,

Petition for Divorces

, and a document attesting that

she had no arrest reeord in Cuba, all of which were

SECRE

NH 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 97 - 300

SECRET

in the Spanish language.

Her file also contained an affidavit submitted

by one EDUARDO I CONZALEZ, 45 Fifth Avenue, New York

city, an American citizen, who was born in Havana

Cuban

It was set out that GoNZALEz was the President and sole

owner of the Latina Shipping Company, 111 Wall Street,

New York City,

and was desirous of bringing MENDIZABAL

to the United

States to work for the above company.

The degree of relationship existing between GONZALEZ

and MENDIZABAL was not set forth.

MARIA MENDIZABAL waS granted an 0-1 Visa,

Number 5686, and arrived in the United States at Miami,

Florida, on February 20, 1957.

This was the only arrival

or departure contained in the

INS, New York records.

A search of the Alien Address Report Cards

maintained at INS, New York, falled to reflect any

record of MENDIZABAL for the years of 1958, and 1959:

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION

advised that

employed as

attempted to contact ALBERTO REVUELTA In Havanas

havana telephone 293233, on October 9, 1959.

at

MM T-1

advised that ALBERTO REVUELTA 18 Identical with ALBERTO

I BAYOTh who, according to Mu I-I, is engaged in

Intelligence activitles for the Cuban government.

MY T'-]

believed that the subject was a plant and was furnish-.

Ing Information to BAYO, IR. regarding the activities

PEREZ. JIMENEZ.

Prior

to receipt of the above information

as furnished by MM T-l on October 9, 1959, the following

spaiN

& APPROX,

1924

SECREL

NH 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MH 97 300

on

October

2ts 19591

adrised that

ALBERTO BAYO,

arrector of

Fumigationg

mandance.

Havana, Cuba,

revealed in early

August, 1959 Chat

"Nene" E

MENDEZABAL, subsequently Identified

88 MARTA JOSEFA

MENDIZABAL ARVEI

sent on

Mam, and that

Mitteen

days,,

gleate mission

to

there rould be

an

announcement in the

press

about

PERCE JIMENEZ

I-2

advised that he observed

the subject an the africe of

ALBERTO BAYO, TRio

on three

oe0a810n](5)

The following Information was ebtained in

connection with investigation concering another matter:

October 29, 1959,

MARLA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL

ARVIER waS Interviewed at Miant, Florida, by Speclal

AgEntS CHARLES W. EDMISTON and

JOHN R. BARRON

MARIA JOSEFA VENDIZABAL ARVIER, 1951 Park

Avenue,

Aparquent 11, Niang Beach, Florida, alter being

advised

of her right

to be represented by counsel.

that

anything she might say could be used against her in a

court of law

stated that she was bom on November 26,

1916, at Havana,

MENDIZABAL stated that she arrived

in the

United States on August 15, 1959, aboard Cubana Airlines,

which departed Havana,

Cuba, at approsimately 5:30 p.m.

on

August 15, 1959.

She stated that upon her arrival

at the Mlant

International Airport, she

mas met by Dr.

CARLOS SISO and INE DAVILA, as weLL as a friend of Dr.

SISo, introduced to her as

CARLOS PULIDO FLA

MENDIZABAL advised that prior to her arrival

In Mian 1,

she had received

& letter Iron INES DAVIA

In the early part of August, 1959,

Thereia DAVILA

advised her that PERE. JIMENEZ.

ex. Venezuelan

President, was

seeking the services of a rellable and

competent

secretary.

She stated DAVILA In her letter

to her asked it she

would be interested in this

position

to which she subsequently

replied that she would

accept

the position

as she was

heavily in debt in Cuba.

SECRET

NH 52333 DocId: 32303659 Page 8

---

