# 124-10232-10022

## Page 1

124-10232-10022

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10232-10022

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-8322

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/06/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5065

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW. 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993/

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

EXCEpi pa. 1 TP LAST "BRACTS"

p9.

5 BRANUTS

per amB

6 00T 1964

pG. 3 BRACKETS

3121160

IBH: 4-30-93

Director

RDD/KSR 5-17-93 JFK

Fedoral Bureau of Investigation

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Security

Russia - Cuba

Reference is made to your memorandum of August 14,

1964, Subject as above, your file number (S) 105-82555, in

which you requested that seven enclosed photographs be

shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.

the

2.

VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 September 1964 with

following results.

3. Photograph no. 1:

(1) Nikolay SERGEYEV - Source did not recognize the

face and had never heard the name.

(2)

(3)

Annette (Anita) SEIYAEVA,

formerly

KnOWs as Annette COLDSITY (GOLDSTEIN) and

Annette

(KHENKINA) :

Source recognized

giving the name Annette

KHENKINA, formerly Annette GOLDSETEYN.

could not recall her maiden name but when offered

the name ZUGOFF he sald this would be correct

as it is an Ossettian name and her father had

been Ossettian and her mother a Canadian.

Source's

additional information on this woman is provided

in paragraph/8 below.

Joseph ADAMOV

Source recognized his photograph

Inmediately and provided the name correctly,

Identifying him ag his long-time friend, previously

discussed in the

your memorandum.

Excluded from automatic

10010461-8322

downgrading and

profanallication

P.r, V, 3it SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(4)

Annabet

BICAR:

Source recognized her photo

graph immediately and gave ber name correcty.

she is the person discussed in the

report y

(5)

Source recognized his photograph

Immedatoly and gave his name as "FUDIK"and

RUDELIAN Or HODINAN che same man referred to in

triana or sor dont Source said bo is a close

He is Jewish and was

originally from New York, but is now a Soviet

citizen, married to a Russian woman and father

of three or four children.

he works in the

two rooms, with which he was very unhappy, but

Radio Moscow got him an attractive and larger

flat in a building on Foschannya Street.

(6)

Source recognized her

photograph at/once as the wonan who had given

him English lessons

in 1944 or 1945 hen he was

briefly employed at

Radio Moscow.] lie belioved(5)

her name was Irina of something Ilke that, and

she had previously spont posalbly ten of fifteon

years in the United States with hor husband who

had been a TASS man there.

Source could not

recall her last name (narried none) but thought

1t began with a

"K". When Source first mot her

She was a program director for Radio Moscow and

did some announcing.

He said she spoke excellent

English, was a good

worker and well liked by her

colleagues.

He did not know the namos LUCk and

OLGA PRAVDINA, and was cortain neither was her

actual name.

4.

Photographs 2 and 3:

Sourco recognized those as

Annette KHEVKINA, Of paragraph 3 (2) above.

5.

Photograph no. 4: Source recognized number 1 as

the person identified in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

Annette KHENKINA, Sergei RUDIMAN, and Joe ADAMOV.

He did

not recognize Nikolai SURGLYEV in this photograph.

Photograph no.

5: Source recognized all persons

in this

and (5)

photo, as identified in paragraphs 3 (3), (2), (4),

above.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Photograph no. 6: Source recognized number (1)

KHANKIN (first nane not recalled), the second husband

of Annette GOLDSTEIN SHENKINA, and number (2) as Annette

He Knew that they had a son and assumed that the

child in this photo was that son, but he had never seen the

child. Source provided the same information greterred

previously included al

In your memorandun He added to this that the apartment

building in the background of photograph number (s) 1s

the location of the apartment which KHENKIN was given after

he had written a letter to STALIN complaining of quarters

he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Union

in 1945 or 1946.

8.

Photograph no. 7: Source recognized Annette

KHINKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

When number (4), Marina, was pointed out to him, he stated

that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by bor

first husband, GOLDSHTLYN. Source had seen her as a snall

child, possibly about five or six years or age, in 1945.

Ile has never seen her since, knew nothing more about her,

and could not identify her photograph.

Source commented

that he had never met GOLDSHITYN, Annette's first husband,

but knew that he was much older than she and he speculated

that the older man in this photograph might be sorr

GOLDSITE

Source gave the following additiona. intormation

IT BOYIS GOLDSHTEYN: He was sone kind of engineer-techniclan,

not employed by Radio Moscow.

He did not approve of Annette's

working in the radio field, and disapproved of the people

she worked with there

and the general atmosphere of work.

Annette was already separated or divorced from GOLDStEIN

when Source first met her, sometime in 1914 or 1945.

While

Annette was still married

to GOLDENTLYN, she had an affair

with Joe ADAMOV.

9.

heard the / name.

had married for the third time, although he knew that she

was divorced from KHENKIN and that he was interested in

marrying a woman who was an editor in a publishing house.

10. Source had never heard of Lee Harvey OSWALD

prior to his defection, and had no information regarding

his participation in a

Radio Moscow interview in late

1959.

He commented, however, that it was not unusual to

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32180312 Page

4

---

