# 124-10280-10082

## Page 1

124-10280-10082

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10280-10082

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2531

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 08/11/1977

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: OBA, CORU, ASSOC, VENEZUELA, TERRORIST ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId: 32302145

Page 1

---

## Page 2

9.79

SECRET, (When Filled In)

8/23/77

0-7

Nyimm,

for Actions

PRIORITY.

Intelligence Information Cable

IN 371636

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO OCR PAGE 1 OF 4: PAGES

(SY /TAG)

XBY SECUR

WHSITRM DDA

Classified a

I Reporting Officor, Exempt from Goneral Declassification Schodule of 8.0. 11052 Exemplar

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

Colgory

(1).

Imposible to Derermine

Date of Automalle Declassificatien

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECREL

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

CITE TDFIR DBCI 315/09399-77

Pol tral maTteriVenezuela

DIST I1 AUGUST 1977

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS- DISEMI-

NATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/ CUBA

ANN. 0921100S

(JEAL)

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

DO.I

,: AUGUST 1977

HEREIN IS UNCI ASSIFIED

ARE

DECLASSIFIED

DATEZ- 20-94BY 508 mAc/KSR

SUBJECT: VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT CONCERN ABOUT ALLEDGED CUBAN

EXILE TERRORIST ACTIVITIES.

ACO

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 19-10 AUGUST 1977

SOURCE: SEE BELOW

1. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2-3 BELOW:

(JFK).

BRAcKERS

ECTION TO

NDVOR,

AMATION

SID/15R 2-21-98

GIA HAS NOS

DEGLASSIFICATI

RELEASE OF GA

DOCU

THIS

KP. 1-27-98

25311

11 AUG 24 1977

2. HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIALS OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.

(GOV) ARE SERIOUSLY CONCERNED ABOUT POTENTIAL TERRORIST ACTIVITIES

IN VENEZUELA BY CUBAN EXILES. THE ORIGINAL INFORMATION CONCERNING

EERROR 187T

ACTIVITIES WAS MADE AVAILABLE TO THE GOV BY

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302145 Page 2

---

## Page 3

9-75

Tonivoopies made

for review at EBIH& by,

288-0082

RECEIVED

INTELLIGENCE DIV.

MARINEES ARE

SENSITIVE INTELIIGENCE SOURCES

2 0 317M 7

METHODS INVOLVEI

IN 377636

TDFIR DBCI 315/09399-77

PAGE Z OF4 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

THE CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE (CUIS THROUGH THE CUBAN EMBASSY

IN CARACAS. THE INFORMATION WAS PROVIDED IN THE FORM OF LETTERS,

ACQUIRED FROM A CUBAN PENETRATION OF THE COORDINATED UNITED

REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION (CORUS, THESE LETTERS WERE

INTERCEPTED BY A CUIS SOURCE AND FORWARDED TO HAVANA FOR

CLANDESTINE OPENING AND REVIEW. CUIS ANALYSTS COMPARED THE

WHICH

WITH

LETTERS/REPORTEDLY ORIGINATED

/ JAILED CUBAN EXILE LEADER

ORLANDO

BOS CH C PAPERS "AND" SIGNATURES AVAILABLE

AT. HAVAÑA UNIVERSITY, THE HANDWRITING OF THE INTERCEPTED LETTERS

WAS CONFIRMED BY THE CUIS AS THAT OF BOSCH'S.

THE TEXTS OF THE

LETTERS WERE COPIED AND A COPY OF THE LETTERS AND A CUIS ANALYSIS

• THE CONTENTS WERE MADE AVAILABLE TO THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE

FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP) AND TO

VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

PEREZ Venezuela

3.

TARGETS FOR ASSASSINATION BY CORU IN VENEZUELA, AS

INDICATED IN THE INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THE CUIS INCLUDE THE

FOLLOWING: BRIANDOG ARE I AM VAZQUEZ, THE CHIEF OF DEERATIONS

FOR DISIP; RICARDON

MORAL ES NAVARRETTE,

FORMER DISIP

S-ElCRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32302145 Page 3

---

