# 124-90092-10012

## Page 1

124-90092-10012

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90092-10012

HQ

CR 62-80750-4425

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

BRENNAN

TO: SULLIVAN

TITLE:

DATE: 01/12/1966

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

DocId: 32330767

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAT IHOL EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES C

SMENT

Memorancum

*Tolson

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan -

Contad

Felt

Gale

TO

Mr. W. C. Sullivad

SECRET,

Rosen

DATE:

1/22/59

SECHET

«Sullivan.

FROM : D. J. Brennan, J8. MAh

e. Room

Holmes

66

SUBJECT

AGENCY

PERSONNEL CHANGES

CENTRAL INTELLIGEN INTONATION CONTAINED

18583

Classified by

CEIESIFIED

Declassily on

ORDR

ARE SHORN

D0.

741326

The Liaison Agent has

Deputy Director. of Intelligence,

is slated to become the head

of CIA's operations in

currently peras handled by Contes warts men wint be trasse

ferred to CIA Headquarters.

The departure of Cline from his:

current job has been the subject of some publicity,-and it has

been implied that he asked for a field job because öf differences

with Admiral Raborn.

The rumors which

have circulated indicate

that there is some good basis for this allegation.

Cline, who

has largely been responsible for preparation of intelligence

estimates,

reportedly has not been able to work in harmony with

Raborn.

6/15/92

William

Harvey,) ex Bureau

Agent, currently in charge of

CIA"s office in Rome Very likel

will be transferred to CIA

Headquarters

later this year.

succeeded

Information received

indicates that Cline will be

by

Jack Smith who has been serving as one. of Cline's

assistants

So far no name has been mentioned as a successor

Harvey•

D,O,

5-13-97

FACTION:

80

or information isn

SJP: rab Mal

CIA HAS NO OBIECTION

DECLASSI

Mr.

•DeLoach

Mr. Sullivan

Liaison

Papich

RELEADE

IN THIS DO

Bing

DEC

LASSIFY CiN: 25X

(JFK)

62-70258

4425

Lins

FORMATION 12 JAN 1'7 1966:

MENT, EXCEPT Fan thE bAcKTS

KP 1-22

Classified by

Y0916

Date of Dsc

SECRET,

7O JAN JAN 5 1966

- copies made

he William Harvey po, 619, 2tr.

for revier at EBIHO by

HSCA re do/18 request.

(Soe BufiZe 462-117290)

DIE/Mer 2/1078

7H 50953 DOCTO: 32330767

Page 2

---

