# 124-10292-10326

## Page 1

1124-10292-10326-

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10326

HQ

64-29479-5TЫ NR 11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEG, MX

DATE: 09/26/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MTP, EMP, CP, PENTRATION, CUBAN DIPLOMATIC

ESTABLISHMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

IT 50953

12

DocId: 32307623

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- Mullins

Legat, Mexico (105-1713)) 61

Director, FBI{(205-89084)(S)

COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF CUBAN

LDIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

SECREL

September 26, 1960

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP?

WHERE SHOND OTHERKISE+

Reurlet 8/25/60 which listed the employees of the Cuban

Embassy, Mexico City. Review of Bufiles shows you are in possession

of all

pertinent data concerning those named with the following

exceptions:

lassified Dy Soot SLim

THERESA PROENZA PROENZA

Declassily Out OADRIFK

Maria Theresa Proenza y Proenza is the subject of

Enclosed are single copies of Havana reports

dated 12/1/44 and 4/27/45 concerning her.

It appears she is

identical with the present employee of the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City.

ARMANDO LOPEZ BETANCOURT

According to a

_dated 5/5/60, members

of the diplomatic staff of the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, met with

members of the Mexican Communist Party to study plans brought

from Cuba by Juan Valdes Gravalosa for attacking different

Latin-American countries.

Armando Lopez was listed as one of those

who attended.

This data originated withla

appended the conment that Lopez was possibly identical

Amando Lopez Betancourt, who

according to la

in February, 1960, reportedly had been sent

the Cuban

Embassy, Mexico City, #0

JOSE ANTONIO PORTUONDO VALDES

work against san exiles.

SSINED PY 5648 SLD ASR

DECLASSIFY CM. 25X

Busiles contein mmerous references to portunado TEk)

have not been forwarded to your office.

However, all pertinent

reports concerning him are in your possession.

ORINAL FILED IN

YELLOW

DUPLICATE

CRISPIN GONZALEZ BOUDET

P27

i 1)

According

to a report from the U. S. Embassy R

Cuba,

dated 3/3/48, Crispin Boudet represented the youth rous

Autentico Party.

On March 4,

at a ceremony honoring

War Federation of Democratic

Havana.

1948 pelegation which was then in

Reportedly, leaders of conmunist youthur RupS JCFfoN? 8o

present:

DECLASSIE

*TON AND/OR,

Enclosures - 2

RELS CS UP CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCOPT BiRTiCKETS

131

CEP 1 RAG60n

- Foreign Liaison Uait (Route thru for review)

KP 11-17-97

64-29479 (Theresa Proenza)

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32307623

Page 2

---

