# 124-90144-10078

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

S/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90144-10078

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-370750-327

Document information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIT

[Restricted]

[Restricted)

• DATE: 04/22/1965

PAGES:

8

SUBJECIS:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

withhold so sore JFK bill)

01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS:

LET

i NW#: 45838

DocId: 32339143

35

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BURKAU OF INVISTIGATION

FQSTPONRANIT INPORIATION SHIET (JIA HATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

of more of the following

statenents, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

I Deletions vere nade pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable.

material

available for disclosure..

All references relate. to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Rennedy Assasgination

Records Collection Act of 1992..

[] Subsection lA (intelligence agent's identity)

subsection IB (intélligence source or method) per Aumy

Subsection IC (other matter relating to military

lefense,

intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

(] Subsection 2

[] Subsection 3

[]

subsection. 4

(living person who provided

confidential information)

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

[]

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilizedi

[l Information pertained to

a natter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation..

For your information:-

If The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages):

10u370750-327 exclame

xxxxxxxxxX

X0xxxxD000X

XXXX000xXXS

XxxxXXXXX

X00XXX000K

....?

NW#: 45838

DocId: 32339143

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIA

128

H

82006

WARNING NOTICE • SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

LOS ANGELES. CALIP, BODeS

Apr12 22, 1965

TO:

InternationaL Muoting. of Melters

Dear Friends!

I as deeply honored by tho

Invitation to partlotpate in the pootsor of

erttern which will be held in Berlin and Polzar

I an unablo to attend: I have a

schedulu-of work, including locturen, and claeues

he aeli ne erities, which is not posethio to

chance;

I enclose a rentage to tha rathoring.

mith it go hy beart-telt scuctings to you and to

all the people associated with you in planning this

splandsu event.

Sinceroly,

listed frust

-CONFIDENTIAL

DOWNGRADE

NOT ALTOMATICALLY

OOD DIR $200.10

• NW#: 45838

Docid: 32339143

---

## Page 4

CONADENTAL

I8 CASE OF TREDIT FIELD 2.8

LESTION DATE & EC

N71. 1085

H

22000

WARRING NOTE

SENSITIVE SOURGES AND METHODS INVOLVED

LOT ANGELTA, CALIT. DOOR:

A MESSAGE OF CARATING

TO THE INTIIATTONAL MRETING OP WRITILI

BERLEN NED WRIHAR,

1965

at

It Decan to no that vour cathering, berlin

and Hasnar 19 an pecasion of nojor hintorteal isportance.

You conesorate the pant, the defeat of Mazi tyrauny, But

you speak for the present. and for tho future, for the

continuity. and iradiay, of the struggle for penco nad

treodoo. Mriters of the wurld have a unique reoponsibility--

to choir conóclences, to their pooplo, aud to all poopion.

The creative conscionco agrinot scot of rotroat, There aro

today eritoro and artletu who hold that culture to mubjoc-

tive and rolated only to tho luner lito of the mind of

due thoro do no ltdiog place in the soul; the san

or vasan iho trien to bido tros the world saken the heart

a prison.

May this necting atfira tho deathlean spirit,

the crestive spirit that hooore life nod unites. the writer

alCh all hunnutty la creating a vorld of peaco and plenty

nou brotherhood.

CONFDENTIAL

OWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERYAL

IOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIPIED A

DOD. 012. 6200.10;

i NW#: 45838

Docid: 32339143

---

## Page 5

ONFDENTAL

RNING

NOrICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES

AND _METHODS INVOLVED

30

APA. 1965

13005

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

946 ELYRIA DRIVE

,.: LOS ANGELES. CALIF. 90065

April 22, 1965

Ne: An C. Schrichting;

120 serwng1

Parkstr.

Dear Schlicting:

I am most happy to hear from you,

after a somwbat long interval-. which is no doubt

my fault for not writing.

I am aware of the tremendous

of writers,

and I'am most regretful that I cannot attend.

There are many

reasons, but the most urgent

to conmitments

which I cannot dismiss

(writing,

lecturing and teaching).

I am writing by this mail to

the Initiating Committee,

expressing my regrets,

and enclosing a brief message of greeting to the

Cordially,

ALL FBI INFORMATIÓN CONTNINED®

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

bias is deside

CONNDENTIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLISSIRED

DOD DIR 3200.70

NW#: 45838

DocId: 32339143

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTAL

WARNING

NOTICE

•SENSITIVE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

130

i APR. 1965

13006

2020

HE "VAN "

AIR MAIL

22

1955

X

Hir. A. C.. Schlichting,

110

Berlin et

Parkstry

51

German Democratic Republic

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONSI

NHAL

| DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOIA TICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONAIDENNAL

/ DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTONATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONFI

STAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERYALS

NOT AUTOANTICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DiR 5200.10

CONFIDENTIAL

DOWNGRADES AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSITIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONRDENTAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERYALS

NOT AUTOMATICALEY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

CON

STIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

NW#: 45838

Docid: 32339143

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

NOPICE

ITIVE SCURCES

INVOLVET

30

APR. 1965

13005

- JOHN HOWARD LAWSON.

948 ELYRIA DRIVE

LOS ANGELES. CALIF. 90065

CONHDINTAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONRDENTAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTONATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.70

CONFIDENTAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERYALS

NOT AUTONATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

CONPIDENTIAL

DOWNGRADEO AT 12 YEME INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.70

CONFDENTIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIRIED

DOD. DiR 5200.10

CONFIDENTIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUIOISATICALLY DECLABSIFIED

DOD Di 5200.70

CONADENTIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIE 5209.70

NW#: 45838

DocId: 32339143

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTI

IN CASE OP IBRUIRY PLEASE

MENTION DATE & 30

WARNING NOTICE

28

APR. 1965

2000

THODS INVOLVED

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

U40 ELYRIA DRIVE

LOS ANGELES, CALIP. 00005

CONFIE

CONFIDENTIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200,10

iNW#: 45838

Docid: 32339143

---

## Page 9

ONFIDEN

INI

CA95 DP IBQIBY PLEASE

KRETION DATE & NO

-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE SC

28

HI

HOOS INVOLVED

Internationni Meeting of Writers,

Friedrichstrasse 134,

BRLLIN

Gernan Denocratic Republic

8020 BG OTA

CONFIDENTIAL

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200,10

i NW#: 45838

Docid: 32339143

---

## Page 10

CLASSIFIED INFORMATION EPIGLOSED

i thruson tribal has exual

-vry

→..

337

WW#: 45838

Docid: 32339143

---

