# 124-10217-10368

## Page 1

ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

MIDENTNICATION HORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10217-10368

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-306488-7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: OSI

FROM:. USDAO CARACAS

1O: RUEKJCS

TITLE:

DATE: 02/09/1978

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, PRISON, HUNGER STRIKE, REPERCUSSIONS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFIGATION:

03/27/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC ADMIN PAGE, DOC CHANGED TO 105-141949-219X

DocId: 32296592

Pace 1

---

## Page 2

!

PAGE THREE

1. EMPORN: CONVERSATIONS WITH SOURCES 9 FEB 197J €

CONFIRMED THAT DR BOSCH HAS BEEN MOVED FROM JAIL TO

A MILITARY HOSPITAL BUTH SOURCES EXPRESSED DEEP CONCERY C

THAT THIS EVENT WILL TOUCH OFF A NEW WAVE OF TERRORIST

ACTS BY BOSCH FOLLOWERS

AND SYMPATHIZERS AGAINST VE

ASSET So

THEIR PRIMARY CONCERN IS FOR CIVILIAN

AND MILITARY AIRCRAFT; PARTICULARILY THOSE OPERATING

IN THE US. BECAUSE BOSCH APPARENTLY HAS A HISTORY

OF HEART PROBLEMS THEY FEAR THAT SHOULD HE DIE WHILE

IN IKE HOSPITAL, ME MAY DECOME MORE OF A MARTYR, VE

WILL BE BLAMED AND REPROCUSSIVE ACTS MAY

BECOME EXCESSIVELY

VIOLENT.

2. COMPoRT: ADDITIONALLY THEY EXPRESSED HOPE

THAT US AUTHORITIES WOULD INCREASE PROTECTIVE

VIGILENCE WHERE EVER POSSIBLE.

3. «ANOrOR#: THE VE AR C-130 SUPPLY FLIGHT TO

MIAMI FOR > FEB 78 WAS CANCELLED TODAY. HOWEVER,

THE

14 FEB 78 FLIGHT IS STILL SCHEDULED TO LAND MIAMI

INTL

AIRPORT

WITHOUT AN RON.

HH

46936 Dockd: 32296592 Page 3

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO 9 9 1

8. REFERENCE: INITIATIVE, IR Ô 902 0344 77.

9. ASSESSMENT: A-I

10. ORIGINATOR: USDAO CARACAS VE

11. EVAL REQUESTED: NO

1Z PREPARING OFFICER: BILL R KEELER, COL, USAF, DATT

13. APPROVING AUTHORITY: BILL R. KEELER, COL, USAF,

DATT

14. SOURCE:

15. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: DIRC-NO, NOFORN CAVEAT

IMPLEMENTED DUE TO SOURCE IN UNIQUE POSITION.

16, SUMMARY: (C/NFORN) THIS REPORT FORWARDS INFO

CONCERNING A HUNGER STRIKE THAT IS CURRENTLY SEING

STAGED BY DRE ORLANDO GUSOH, WHILE IN A VE PRISONE VER

(STRIKE BEGAN 4. FEB 78). THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE EVENT IS IN THAT

DR. BOSCH, HIS INCARCERATION AND MILITARY IRAIL YET TO BE

ANNOUNCED, IS SITED BY MIAMI-BASED ANTI-CASTRO

CUB AN

GROUPS AS THE CAUSE OF RECENT TERRORIST ACTS,

AND

CONTINJING THREAT AGAINST VE ASSESTS

IN

THE US

AND PUERIO RICO. •

22. DETAILS:

NW 46936

DOCId: 32296592

Page 2

---

