# 124-10280-10085

## Page 1

124-10280-10085

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10085*

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-2546

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 10/07/1977

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, DETENTION, VENEZUELA, BOMBING, CUBANA

AIRLINER, ASSOC, OPEN LETTERS, INTERNATIONAL PRESS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId: 32302148 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET (When Filled In)

ANTELLLIGENE

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATIONS

SECRET

Itelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

* ROUTINE

426113

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

JCS/MC (DIA) CiA/NMeC

'TREAS NSC/S S/H/SIRM: PAGET OF 4 PAGES

SDO NIO OCR

{SY/TAG}

SS/ID

FBI

SECUR

Classified by RecorEed Reporting

Officer, Exempt from

Ooperal Dech

Listention Schedule of E.O. 11652-Exemption

Calegory 56 (1), (2)

Impossible to: Determine Date of Aulamb

Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDER DB-345617684-77

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

DIST ? OCTOBER 1977

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS

ORIGINATOR.

-

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

Politice bitin

COUNTRY:

VENEZUELA

CUBA

"DO I

"SUBJECT

ADI. MARIANS

ALL FBI INEORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLACCITED AME DEClASS

6 OCTOBER 1977

0412-20-14 BY 5P8 mC/SR

OPEN LETTERS WRITTEN BY CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

BOSCH WHICH MAY BE PLACED IN THE INTERNATIONAL PRESS.

• ACQ

VENEZUELA, CARACAS 17 OCTOBER 1977) FIELD NO,

13266

SOURCE:

10/13/97

Mim

INFIRS

*/es

DE-64

6.

22.8

2546

1:

HAVE LEARNED THAT CUBAN

EXILE LEADER ORLANDO

OS OH, WHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER

OCT 27 1977 668-

COLA DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING OF CA

CUBANA AIRLINER, IS THE AUTHOR OF OPEN LETTERS WITH HE IS

DISCREETLY ATTEMPTING TO HAVE PLACED IN VAROUS

NEWSPAPERS IN

_copies made

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJESTION

DECLASSIFICATION AN

:: # NOV8

1971

(or review at TBIHQ by)

ELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATION JFK

• IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT.BRACKERS

KP 1-27-98 SUD/KSR 2-21-98

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32302148

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FORM

9-75

3007 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

RECEIVED

INTELLIGENCE DIV.

280-10085

IN 426713

TDFIRDB-315/11684-77

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

THE UNITED STATES AND VENEZUELA, BOSCH'S NAME WILL NOT APPEAR

ON THESE LETTERS AND THEY WILL BE ATTRIBUTED TO VARIOUS CUBAN

EXILE ORGANIZATIONS, BOSCH IS CURRENTLY. ATTEMPTING TO HAVE:

THO SUCH LETTERS PLACED. ONE OF THESE IS ADDRESSED TO THE PEOPLE

OF THE

UNITED STATESIUS) AND THE OTHER TO CUBAN BALLERINA

Cuba

ALICIA

IS DaNHO IS CURRENTLY APPEARING IN VENEZUELA

• AFTER

HAVING COMPLETED AN ENGAGEMENT, IN THE US. THE LETTERS

•HAVE BEEN HANDCARRIED TO THE US BY A BOSCH ASSOCIATE AND ARE

EXPECTED TO APPEAR IN. THE PRESS IN THE MIAMI AREA WITHIN THE.

NEXT FEW DAYS.

2.. THE LETTER TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE PEOPLE OF THE US

CONCERNS THE GUANTANAMO NAVAL BASE IN CUBA, THIS MESSAGE

STATES THAT DESPITE THE CURRENT POLICIES OF THE PRESIDENT OF

THE UNITED STATES, WHICH THE LETTER ASSERTS ARE LEADING TO SOVIET

EXPANSION IN THE CARIBBEAN, THE CUBAN EXILES SUPPORT AND DEFEND

THE CONTINUED MAINTENANCE OF THE US NAVAL BASE AT GUANTANAMO.

THE LETTER STATES THAT WHILE THE CUBAN EXILES ARE AWARE THAT

THE US GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO AOCOMMODATE CUBAN LEADER

FIDEL CASTRO, THEY HOPE THAT THE SITUATION WILL NOT GO

SO FAR AS TO TURN GUANTANAMO OVER TO THE SOVIET UNIONIS PUPPET.

SECRE

NH 50953 DocId: 32302148 Page 3

---

