# 124-90137-10174

## Page 1

124-90137-10174

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90137-10174

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-97601-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 05/11/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

RAMON MENDEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 50953

6

DocId: 32337108

Page 1

---

## Page 2

500722

•Liaison section

--Mro Dunn

REC- 4

CIE HAS NO CRUSTICH TO

105-97602--

105

RELEASE OF SA. 1ACATONE

IM THUS BUSSAC

Datea

20đ

Subjecta

Boy Il, 1961

Director

Central Intolligence Agency

LAttention® Deputy Director,

Plans

John Bagar Hoover, Director

ARAMON LENDAS

LILITIAL SECURITY • CUBA

BRACKETS

K8 3-19-98

835/93

Classing boy 9805 dee/sel

eclassy on: dAu

211,356

ALS INFURRATION CUNTALAL

ETROIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

• SHOWN

BY, COURIER SVO.

03

3 MAY 1

COMM - FBI

Reference is node to the Foreiyn service

Despatch

Number 284 dated larch 22, 1901s fron the American Conculade,

Kingston, Jamaica, Brtish Vest Indles,

to the Deperinent of

Wasnington, D. Co, entitled "List From CID."

subject in mentioned, in paragraph tuo of this Despoich.

(u)

•A confidential source who has furnished reliable

angornation in the pass couised our dianto caorices offace

danon aglestos Vasailo received moil at 2530 Soutlwest Eleventh

Street, Lion, in the none of Ranon Mendez.

our source advised

that Iglestee was o rember of the trente Revolucionario Democratico.

Lon Lay 3, 1961, Kr

who to enployed

Dy your Agenoy in the Mani arees

coolsco our diant Office that

your ayency has an operational interest in Renon Iglestos Vosallo.

no further inquiries are being conducted by inis

Bureau in this maccer.

You may desire

advise

the Department of State of

your interest

in Iglestos.

bos oN

NOW DIELASS

I. = Miami (105-3778)

JIDENDANT

(6)

13-19-98

CLASSIFIED BY

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan.

Tele. Room

Ingrome

Gang

Despatche

(JEK)

1) classified "secret" as it sets forth data

Tegarding suoject

CIAoReferengeghtoreign service

a copy of which was.

received

oy dIAy indicated that jC

'.!!

NOTE. CONTENUED PAGE ITO

SE CIDE

317

TELETYPE UNIT

8:89

HW 50953

DocId: 32337408 Page 2

---

