# 124-90107-10376

## Page 1

124-90107-10376|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10376

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/25/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

COMMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

• DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: IDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

N9.1

ITT 50953

136

DooId: 32333793

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

F B I

RELEASE OF CIA INTORMATION

he TOMIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS Date:

7/25/66

COMEL

Transmit the following in KP 3-19-48

(Type in plaintext or code.

SLD|KSR

AIRTEL

328-98

REGISTERED

crated by 568 sores SECRET

(Priorieybeclassify on: OADR

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FB1

(131 14264)-

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI

(134-1198)(P)

RE:

DOLPHIN

SI - CUBA

place co in lot 2'")

-017297

Chassised by seede mie

10

On July 19,

196611181

eceived trom the

informant reflected that ENEIDO OLIVA, a former member of

RECE and ex-military. leader of RECE, is now in the Dominican

Republic.

He was also. a former.commander in Brigade 2506.

In the Dominican Republic he is contact with Col. JUAN FOLCH,

a Dominican. OLIVA is representing three anti-CASTRo groups,.

namely RECE, 30th of November, and Comandos L.

Through

Col.

FOLCH, OLIVA is attempting to make arrangements to

Let to Santonge

establish a base in the Dominican Republic for the afore

8-2-66

mentioned organizations.

These organizations will form a

military alliance

activities.

¿U order to participate in anti-CASTRO

1-59

July 20,

1966, an attempt was made to contact

CIA Covert,

his agency

had co eperational interest" in OLIVAS

to determine whether or not

was

on annual leave at the time. However, AUSTIN HORN, Liaison

was contacted. Inquiry was

ORIGINAL FILE

made of him as to the status of OLIVA.

HORN

reported that

Iri N'

CIA locally did not have an operational interest in OLIVA,

but that inquiry

would be made

at

the Washington level con-

cerning OLIVA.

On July 25, 1966,

Who had returned from

annual leave, telephonically advised that CIA did have ar

091S0

REASON

MATE

operational interest in OLIVA, and that the latter was in

4911,334

002(1007 8/91

the Dominican Republic, but was scheduled to return to the

States within a short period of time.

vised of the information developed by the

ing anti-CASTRO

in the Dominican Republic.

N(3-Bureau KRM)

B2a tisfo

o. C. wick

L Miami

NOT RECORD

роней Анат

pd: 16 10 19

Special

Agent

in Charge

SECRL&

JUL 97-1966

Empt Per -

1321-1426462

STEC

NH 50953 DocId: 32333793

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECREI

Lim 131-1198

as

requested to check with his Washington head

quarters to determine what portion of the information

developed by the informant might be used as build-up

material

advised he would immediately contact his

headquarters

for an answer.

This information reported in order to

keep the

Bureau advised as

to the progress

being made in this

matter.

SEGRET

MaNCiDENTIAL

2

IT 50953

DonTd: 32333793

Page 3

---

