# 124-10230-10462

## Page 1

1124-10230-10462

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10230-10462

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1963

2

SEE FBI 105-82555-383

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

N₩ 32333 DocId: 32179752 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF SIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT 384-3373-(K 418142) SECRET

Epeept for Bunkets on Pg. 2.

4194

-

204°

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code) ASCaPOn EXTENS O

Via

CABLE

NO.: 19

PRIORITY

DATE OR

REVIEW FOR

BY:

(Priority or Mello& GLASS CICATION-.

12=27

20

7528-85

BUFILE ONE

ZERO FIVE DASH EIGHT TVO FIVE FIVE FIVE.

CLASSIED BY 3O42 T/S

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS DASH R.

AMBASSADOR MANN LATE THIS AFTERNOON EXHIBITED TO ME CABLE,

CLASSIFIED SECRET, NUMBER FOUR ONE FIVE DATED NOVEMBER TWO EIGET (

LAST SENT TO HIM BY ALEXIS JOHNSON.

IN THIS CABLE JOHNSON ADVISED THAT STATE AND FBI CONCUR WITH

AMBASSADOR'S RECOMMENDATIONS AND THAT FBI HAD SENT ITS

REPRESENTATIVE HERE GUIDANCE ALONG THESE LINES.

и

THERE IS NO DOUBT IN AMBASSADOR'S MIND NOR IN OURS AS TO ROLE

WE ARE TO PLAY IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION HERE AND JOHNSON'S

CABLE MENTIONED ONLY FOR INFORMATION OF BUREAU IN ORDER THAT IT MAY (S

HAVE SOME IDEA OF WAY JOHNSON IS HANDLING MATTER THERE.

LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, THIS AFTERNOON

on: OADR

ADVISED CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT INTERROGATION OF GILBERTO ALVARADO

UGARTE IS CONTINUING AND ECHEVERRIA FEELS THAT EITHER ALVARADO IS

Classified by

TELLING TRUTH OR IS BEST LIAR HE HAS EVER SEEN. ECHEVERRIA

Declassify

INDICATED TO CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT IN GENERAL STOLY TOLD BY

ALVARADO IS SAME AS THAT GIVEN TO CIA: ALVARADO CONTINUES TO STICK

TO DATE OF SEPTEMBER ONE EIGHT AS THE ONE WHEN HE SAW NONKY PASSET

ODA: pll

(2)

Classified by

it on 010

ApproVed:

Special Agent in Charge

SECR

.M

Per S1

HH 52333 DorId: 32179752

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

SECRET

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

PAGE TWO (105-37022-

FOR OSWALD TO HAVE. BEEN IN MEXICO CITY ON THIS DATE BUT BELIEVES

ALVARADO MAY SIMPLY BE CONFUSED CONCERNING EXACT DATE (ES (4)

OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE ARRIVED

MEXICO CITY LATE THIS AFTERNOON AND CIA ASCERTAINING WHETHER

MEXICANS DESIRE HIS ASSISTANCE IN ALVARADO'S INTERROGATION. WHICH

IS BEING CONTINUED BY MEXICANS. FINAL RESULTS OF INTERROGATION OF

ALVARADO WILL BE FURNISHED TO BURBAU AS SOON AS RECEIVED 02)

I re..?

Approved:

- Sent -

- M Per

Special Agent in Charge

NY 52333 DocId: 32179752 Page 3

---

