# 124-10207-10115

## Page 1

124-10207-10115

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10115

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-713

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

EVANS, C. A

TO: BELMONT

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/30/1963

2

CIP, SIGELBAUM, BENJAMIN BERTRAM, B/F INT,

GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

Consulted; 1A

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, TRS

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO TRS

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32291339

Page 1

41

---

## Page 2

OFTIONAL

UNITED STATES

GOT

Memorandum

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohi

Casper w

Callahan .

Conrad

DeLoach 4

TO

Mr. Belmor

SECRET

Evans

August 30, 1963

• Gale'

4-29-98

Sullivan .

Tavel -

Trotter

FROM :

C. •A. Evans

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 S CD/KSA

Tele. Room

Holmes -

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X-

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL, INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

15 malayli

Information was set forth in memorandum dated August 22,

1963, that Benjamin Bertram Sigelbaum, who is prominent in the

transfer

and distribution of skimmed funds from the Las Vegas gambling casinos,

i considered the Swiss banking business to be very lucrative.

stated that the banks lend money to African countries at 12 to 15

per cent

interest and they receive government bonds of these

countries, which, if defaulted, are apparently underwritten by the

U. S. Government.

The Director has asked "Just how does this; work?"

The Legal Attache, Hern tas advisent that Link a Dimmer, Is

that he has no knowledge of

such transactions being made! by Swiss

banks and thought Sigelbaum's allegations sounded extremely doubtful.

Charles W. Bass, Economics Section, U. 'S. Embassy, Bern}

advised he

has never heard of such loans being made by Swiss

banks,

He pointed

out that if the U. S. would underwrite against default à loan to

an African country, thenthe African country could easily borrow

money in Switzerland at live or six per cent interest instead of

to 15 per cent

Bass regarded U. 'S underwriting of African bonde

to be unlikely.

JECT

As set forth in memorandum

dated August 27, 1963, in this

matter, John Grosvenor, Chief Counsel, Bureau

Treasury Department, advised there is no blanket underwriting

foreign government bonds by the U.S. Government, although ru

particular projects in foreign countries may be underwritten

on an individual basis through some U. •S. Government agency?'

DECLASSI

LEASE OF CIA INFORMATION BRACKETS

THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT

1-15-98

officials of

the Agency for International Development (AID)

have advised that this

agency has limited authority to underwrite

projects forgeconomic.

derstopmentrof foreign countries.

They stated

that they had not used this authority to underwrite any bond issues

lof African countries.

REC- 54: 62-

-29-713

Sigelbaum's comments were furnished by highly confidential

sources and no details or basis

for his statements orthis Swiss

ACTION

Sitt

UNREASE IN POL Information®

6 2A3WPrap

GE EASE IN PART

(6)

TOTAL DENIA / ye

ECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32291339 Page 2

---

