# 124-90137-10220

## Page 1

124-90137-10220

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date: .

4/16/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-90137-10220

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-76480-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

PAPICH

ROACH

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/25/1959

1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

RUDY GOMEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

[ww 50953

DocId: 32337454

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ITANDARD FORM NO. 0A

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT....

TO

MR. R. R. ROACHY.

* SECRET

DATE: March 25, 1959

FROM :..

MR. S. J.

Classified by

98031

Deciassify

en: OADW

$211, 3260

SUBJECT:

RUDY

GOMEZ

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room -

Holloman

Information developed by a sensitive source of the

Washington Field Office has indicated that one rudy Gomez possibly

aU. S.

Government employee, had been in contact with lieutenant

Commander Miguel Pons, Naval Attache, Embassy of Cuba, Washington,

Do Caulthe Liaison Agent was instructed to determine if Gomer was

onnected with CIANs, U,

Rudy Gomer, an

intelligence officer employed by CIA for

the last several years, is personallu known to the liaison Agent.

Gomer has served for CIA in

currently dasigned to CIA headquarters, Washington, DEle is

March 24, 1959, A. P. Flynn, CIA, aduised the Liaison Agent that as

a result of his seruice in Cuba Gomez does know several Cuban

Government officials.

Flynn stated that Gomes has been in touch

with Lieutenant Commander Pons, whom he has known for several years,

and that the contact in Washington, D. C., was strictly of a social

nature.

Flynn aduised that

Gomer is not involued in any intelligence

operation with the Cubans

Although Flynn did not volunteer any more information,

it is very possible that Gomer, as other CIA intelligence officers,

is endeavoring to build up coverage in Cuba after losing sources

when the Batista Gouernment was overthrown.

Gomez may be renewing

old contacts with a view of obtaining leads for new sources in Cuba

ACTION:

(4)

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Nation HAstNessetilligence section.

DECLASSIFICATIONS AND/OR,

SJP: j116)

RELEASE IF UN FORMATION

(5)

REG IU

1 = Mr.

Donahoe Exter

IN THis Documese the banchers

105-76480-4

T. - Nasca

KP 1-23-98

Liaison Section

"ur-sPapich

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

3/3%59

SECRET

V10-4-466

CLASOIFEP Y5 8 SLOKSE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

JFK

5668-540/nde8/5/997

(JFK

HW 50953 DooId: 32337454 Page 2

---

