# 124-10212-10239

## Page 1

124-10212-10239

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10239

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-375

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/12/1971

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC 2 LTR

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32293963

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TT-4 (Rev. 12-22=95)

SECR

Date:

8/12/71

ATT INTORMATION CONTAINET

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINTED

EXOBE T WHERE SHOWN

OIHERWISE

To:

Director, FBI

(Bufile : 100-339235

Attention

m: Legal Attache, Ottawa

Title

SUSAN HEILIGMAN

' FRANK

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

105-2499

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEP

Character

IS -CH

BRACkETS 5M 10-6-97

Reference

17/2/98

SLD/KSR

11-1-97

Ottawa tel, 6/18/71.

(JFK)

Enclosed are the following communications received from the

Original and two copies

with

enclosure.

S))

Remarks:

Mr. Cleveland C. Cram is the CIA representative in

copy 0о.

NY

by routing alip for

1 Tato 37/

action

date.

-EMIAS

Ice let t

1c0

each end.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Suo/GeL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25.

(JFK) 713/58

€.

Dissemination

(Note Para 2)

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance with

42/94

Classie

Reclassify on. DA

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

New York (100-43479)

Status with this office:

Do not write in space below

339235-375 RECZA

RUC

Pending

-Bureau

1 New

York

MLI: j1

(3)

DOSEP 3-1971

296

19100

22 AUG 16 1971

SECRED

NAY

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32293963

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BY HAND

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

PRIÈRE D'ADDRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWAY, CANADA

HEADQUARTER'S - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

VOTRE 00 103-2499

OUR NO.

NOT REN. 0972-15-351

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

July 28, 1971.

SECRET

Mr. Moss Lee Innes

c/o United States Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

The attachment, a copy of which has been

Lorwarded to Mr. Cleveland C. Cram, is further to

your conversation with Set. HUTCHISON of this office

on June 17, 1971 concerning Susan WARREN. We

regret that we are unable to supply further informa-

tion regarding the meeting between WARREN andyPU,

Chao-min.

Civala

2.

The attachment is for the information of

your agency only.

It is not to be disseminated

without prior authority from the R.C.M.P., in which

revent, the R.C.M.P. is not to be named as the source.

Yours very truly,

Men butchers.

fustant Poment ioner,

Director,

Security and Intelligence.

100-339235-375

ANGLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId: 32293963

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

• July 28, 1971.

A reliable source was advised by PU,

New China News Agency, Ottawa, that

WARREN advised PU that

she

would come

to Ottawa on June 19, 1971 as

she had "some interesting things" to talk' over

with him.

2.

On June 19, 1971 source advised that

Susan WARREN

arrived in Ottawa and was met at

the Airport by PU, Chao-min, 'Source was unable

to supply any information concerning the meeting

between PU and WARREN.

30

meeting WARREN was driven to the airport by PU

WARREN Ce

Source indicated that following the

where she departed. Ottawa.

105-339233-375

SECRET

_ SUCROSURE

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32293963

Page

---

## Page 5

BY HAND

ALL CORRESFONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

PRIERE D'ADDRESSER LES

LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWAY, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO. 103-2499

VOTRE N°

OUR NO.

D972-15-351

NOTRE NO

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

July 28, 1971.

SECRET

NT. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o United states Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

The attachment, a copy of which has been

forwarded to Mr: Cleveland C. Cram

is further to

your conversation with Set. HUTCHISON of this office

on June 17, 1971 concerning Susan WARREN. We

regret that we are unable to supply further informa-

tion regarding the meeting between WARREN and PU,

Chao-min®

2.

The attachment is for the information of

your arency only.

It is not to be disseminated

without prior authority from the R.C.M.P, in which

event, the R.C.M.P. is not to be named as the source.

Yours very trulys

Assistant Commit ioner,

Director,

Security and Intelligence.

IT 50953

DonTd: 32293963

Page

5

---

## Page 6

•port di

SECRET

July 28, 1971.

A reliable source was advised by PU,

New China

chao-mini?, 1971 PU

News Agency, Ottawa, that

on June

was contacted by Susan

WARREN of New York.

WARREN advised PU that

she would come

to Ottawa on June 19, 1971 as

she had "some interesting things" to talk over

with him.

On June 19, 1971 source advised that

Susan WARREN arrived

in Ottawa and was met at

the Airport by PU, Chao-min.

Source was unable

to supply any infornation concerning the meeting

between PU and WARREN.

3 €

Source: indicated that following the

meeting WARREN was driven to the airport by PU

where she departed Ottawa.

ECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32293963 Page 6

---

