# 124-10140-10092

## Page 1

124-10140-10092

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10140-10092

DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1766-185

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1965

PAGES:

12

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 100-32965-301

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

06/02/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953

DocId: 32160504

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

HING NOTICE SENSITIVE

SOURCE. AND METHODS INVOLVED

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 2, D.G.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

TO

1.4 MAY 1965

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

LEN ANDIOR

GIA INKORMATION

Pirector

Federal. Bureau of Invostigation

I mS 308

SUBJECTO

Porsons In Cortospondenco wIth Goorge and Jeanno

DO MOHRENSCHILDT In HaitI

dated

Roference is made to this Agoney's CSCI:316/01306-65

5 ApTil 1965 concerning the activitios in Haiti

and Jeanne De MOHRENSCHILDT

OL S007g6

sour filo number 100 329652m

During recent months George De MOHRENSCHILDT has

received mail at the United States Embassy In Port-au-Princo,

Haiti, boaring the following return addresses

J. Paul Roston

3211 Cherry Lane

Austin 3, Texás

(postmarked Long Beach, Califomia on 9 February 1965)

218 West Front Street

Media, Pennsylvanta

(postmarked 9 February 1965)

Tustyn Strumitto

Paris XVII

Simo

11 Rue Verniguet

France

DECLASSE

ONA

(postmarked 15 January 1965)

Sam

High Plains Gas Company

1717 Southland Conter

Dallas 1

Texas

(postmarked S February 1965)

Tustyn Strumitto

Paris XVII S

103

11 Rue Verniguet

France

1-10

Kost

1766

266-/85

LEILED.

OVE

MAY 2 1.1965

BIE DALLAS

13oycopy to 105-1766

WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE

SECRET SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

HH 50953

DonTd: 32160504

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET-

WINNING NOTICE-SEMSITIVE

SOURCES AND RETHODS INVOLVED

• 10-

6.

Attached is being of possiblo intorost is a photos

print of Georgo De MOHIRENSCHILDT's contracts with tho Haitian

Covornment which appearod in tho Halti Pross®

(Enclosuro f7)

The lotters bearing the return addross of High Plains

Natural Gas CompanY BALLIN, Chairman of the

1717 Southland Centore Dallas

are from

Samuel B.

Board of Higl

Tign Plains

Natural Gos Company, With respoct to the lottor bearing the

recurn address of

3003 Hahanna Springs, Apartment to Dallas,

our rocords roflect that it is the residence of Mrs.

Ike CLARK, who has previously been reported by your Bureau as

an aquaintanco of the De MOHRENSCHILDTS.

The letter fron Madamo

De LEPOVATY (sic) in Paris, France, 1s undoubtodly from Vera de

LIPOVATZ aka Vera SCHMINT on whom you have furnishod infomation

in connection with the De NOURENSCHILDTS.

The letter from

Dartmouth Collego signod by Dimitri (500 enclosuro 13) is from

Dimitri De MOHRENSCHILDT, the brother of George.

The author of

the letters bearing the return address of Great Southwest Naro

houses, Ince, Dallas, Texas, are probably from Pierre Rene

FREYSS on whom we furnished information in our CSCT-316/0136-65

intod 5 April 1965,

entitled "Activittes in Maiti of George and

Joanno Do MOHRENSCHILDT"

The lettors from KEARTON in Phila

dolphia, Ponnsylvania,.are from Christiana and Reginald KEARION,

the crushtor and son-in-law rospectivoly of George De MOReN™

SCHILUT.

8.

Your sureau has previously furnished information on

Lawrence ORLOV, GOOIgO W. PRICE and George Me MILLAN citod in

paragrash - alovo.

(5)

9

wast

unable to

furnish any information on Tustyn STRUMITTO, cited in

paragraph 2 above, who resides at 11 Rue Verniguot, Paris, Franco.

If your Burenu so

tho appropriate

10.

No Information is availablo in the files of this offico

on othor porsons montioned in tho abovo report.

11o Attached

aro 12 File Chock Forms (in duplicato) on those

persons citod abovo on whom this offico would approciate recoiving

derogatory information which may be avnilable in the files of your

Buroal. 115o attached aro three (3) addrosses on which we would

approciate identification and information on the person(s)

ing at those addresses if possible.

resid"

WARINE NOTICE SENSITIVE

STORE DURES AND RETICE INVOLVED

7TH 50953 DOCTO: 32160504

Page 3

---

