# 124-10205-10474

## Page 1

124-10205-10474

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10474

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-106995-4TH NR 5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/16/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, ANTI-CASTRO

ORGANIZATION, ACA, PROPAGANDA, RADIO BROADCASTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH

50953

2

DocId: 32290698

Page 1

---

## Page 2

WD-36 (Rov. 12-13-50)

FBI

Air. Echoe

Mr. Minl

Mr.

Transmit the following in

Date:

5/26/SECRET

(Type in plain text or code)

75r. Rom

SclA

Via

ERGA LIR

927, 326/122

CLASSIFI

DATED 11

4803,

CONTAINSE

ALL INFORMATION

HEREIN IS UNORASSIRIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

AIR TEL

AIR MAIL

(Prioily or Method of Mailing) 7T 2-20198

CLASSIFIED BY 56/8 SLD/KSP

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-89923)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (62-3573) (P%)

[CIA OPERATIONS - MIAMI ARBA] (U)

Classified by

290-942

The 5/14/62 issue of "Revolucion", Cuban govt.-con-

trolled newspaper, reported the SV 28, a Cuban naval patrol

boat, while on patrol duty off north coast of Cuba (off the:

northeast coast of Santa Cruz del Norte, within territorial

waters of Cuba) was cowardly attacked at 11:30 P.M., 5/13/62

and attack resulted in death of 3 crew members. Five crew

members were wounded.

Article described attack as another demonstration

of criminal and cowardly acts made by workers of CIA and the

U.S. Govt.

On 5/16/62 MM-492-S, Cuban exile residing Miami

area, who is familiar with both pro- and anti-Castro activities,

and who has furnished reliable info in past, advised that

JUSTO CARRILLO HERNANDEZ, General Coordinator of Agrupacion

Montecristi, an anti-Castro organization, on evening of 5/15/62

personally visited office of United Press International,

Miami, accompanied by several of his members. CARRILLO stated

his group, "Montecristi"

, was responsible for attack on the

Cuban navy patrol boat 5/13/62 off coast of Cuba. Stated it

was not act of piracy, but act by patriotic. Cubans to help rid

Cuba of CASTRO and communism.

Admitted two of his group were

wounded, but names withheld.

f05+106655646)

3. - Bureau (AM) (RM)

*CC

N3 H Miami

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION FO

1 - 134-44

Sub A

DECL

ASSIFICATION AND/OR

- 105-4719 Monter is SAS GIA IN ORNETION 2 163 DA

OR

IN THISS

SIFICATION

SOMEN

ON

107

Approv

Special Agent

in Charge

Mista

te Menian

Sent MXH 2-69%

SECRET

RECORDES

87 MAY 25 1962

190

7 50953 DoCTO: 32290698

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 62-3573

SEGRET

MM-492-S advised that on morning of 5/16/62 Cuban

govt.-controlled radio station "progreso", Havana, accused thê

U.S., President JOHN F. KENNEDY, and CIA of the outward at-

tack on the Cuban naval patrol boat and referred to admittance

of the act by CARRILLO.

Broadcast said Cuban Govt. has proof

now that CARRILLO acted in service of CIA and the "Yankee

Imperialists" (U.S.) and that the boat was located on the

coast of Fla.

MM-492-S advised on 5/15/62 that RAUL CASTRO,

Minister of Defense of the Socialist Revolutionary Govt. of

Cuba, spoke on Cuban nation-wide radio broadcast from Cemetery

of Havana during evening 5/14/62 at funeral services: for those

killed aboard the patrol boat on 5/13/62.

He denounced the

U.S. and CIA for having provoked the incident which resulted

in death of 3 Cubans and wounding of 5, all members of the

Cuban Navy®

On 5/15/62,

PIA, Covert, Miami,

confidentially advised

This office that the attack on the

Cuban Naval patrol boat was made by a boat in which CIA has

oparational interest. Stated the boat involved in the id

cident was due to return to Fla. on 5/16/62.

not possess specific details concerning this matter. (1)C

Above is submitted for info of Bureau.

ЗSECRЕТ

NH 50953 DocId: 32290698 Page 3

---

