# 124-90135-10229

## Page 1

124-90135-10229

1198032

Mr. Nasca

LUN

NIIASECRET

2/7/61

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Malone.

McGuire

Rosen

Trotter'

Evans

W.C. Sullivan.

(Tele, Room.

Gandy :

Airtel

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITTED

EXCET & WHACE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

5/16/94

Classifted Boy

Declassify on: DADR

To%

SAC, Miami (105-2102)

2 -

San Antonio

From: Director, FBI (105-82298)

BLOY GUETERREZ RENOVO, aka

CLASSIFIED BY LATE WINgLE bITE

IS - CUBA

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY 3,4

ReBuairtel 2/6/61.

DATE OF DECLASSIFLCATION INDEFINITE:

In 2/6/61 CIA requested that we ask subject it he hac

been in contact

I qua on January 18. 1961. withl

swuring the

course of your interview concerning subject's associates, you

should work in this question in such a way that subject will not

be aware that there is any special significance attached to

these names.

For your confidential information, the two foregoing

individuals were Connected with tac CIA operation and were turned

in in Cuba.

CIA Speculates

that subject may have "stooled."

5-30-48

VHN:msb

(6)

CLASSIFIEDBY 5668 SLO/ISR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X /

NOTE:

FeBuairtel authorized interylew with subjectuFk

Subject was

formerly connected with anti-Batista organizations in Cuba and

has closely collaborated with Castro.

he has been taken by INS to the San Antonio area®

He recently sought asylum

has been instructed to interview him.

Cha Conlo

data to SA Papich]EK)(u)

OFFICESS

ENCIES ANT

'APPROPRTA"

ADVISEDBY RODLING SLIP 01

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INEORMAON

REGE

I THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKES

KP 5-26:98

105-222753

MAILED 9

FEB - 71961

COMM - FBI

189 FEB 8 1S61

FEB

196 LETTE UN SECRET.

ANTIAL

HH

70953

DoCT: 32336834

Page 1

---

## Page 2

salooz Section

REC- 60

EX-108

885-82298. 99

Dated

To ?

NOENTIAL

APPROPRTAT

ORACTOS AND TTE

OUTING SLIP ON

OFFICES

TSU SECRET

ADVISED BI

BY LIAISOU

C'ASSIFIED BY 6422 WNP/OD 6/21|78

March 10, 2961

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY 3

Director

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INBEFINITE

(u)

Central Intelligence Agency

Attentions Deputy Director, Plana

John Edgar Hoover, Direator

23161>-

MAC/GAT (FK)

Subjects

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEMUIZERMAZ

SAGUEIVY * QUEA

Classite

Lay

EBROIN IS UNCLASSIE: BO

IXCEPT M.0-2 2H00W

COMSWICE

Declassis ar: DADA MyS,

Rejerence to mace to your request of Debruary

• 6y 29622

via liaison chamele, in which you requested sunject be interviewed

as to ulether ho had been in contear fa Cuba on,

Tourina, 12

1061 wich

rand

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter.

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room.

Ingram

Gandy

matter was casually brought up during our intoy.

view with the oubject on Fabruary 16, 1061. in ouch o manner

as noc to arouse any

suspicion on his part.

subjeet stated he

was not coquainted with my of these individuals, although i0

was posaible that he may have not then in Cuba.

Subject stated

he: spent the two wools prior to

his saigns from buod on Januoyz

2961, in Havane preparing for its departure.

nãs only contacta during

sue indicated tod

@ close aides uno accompanted him to the United Siates (gu)

ones perso were with the grauno

Ils is for your 57f8 ation

CIA HAS NO DSJECT

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUOKSA

DECLASSIFICATIOD

Ob/OR.

TENBIR DA

CLASSIFY ON: 25X

XRELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

(JFK)

SEE THIS DOGMENT EXCEPOT BRACKERS

NOJES

subject is prominent Batista opponent and Castra

supporter who dejected.

son Antonio is interviewing him NOTA

asked us to interview him concerning ony contact he may have

hod with the to above mentioned inazuiquals.

These two individuals

were connected with a CIA operationtend were

turned in in Cube.

speculatée

subJect may have turned thenn

5 I

MAR

161961

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT L

" ON ATAL SCRET

HH 50953 DOCTO: 32336834

Page 2

---

