# 124-10197-10375

## Page 1

124-10197-10375

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10197-10375

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 9-48130-12

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/15/1968

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

NEWSPAPER ARTIC, THREATS, FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS, ERNESTO, CUBAN

POWER

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

04/06/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

NH 50953 DocId:32287599 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1isk8

VIA TELETYPE

JUN 1 5 1968

ENCIPHERE®

SECRET

STATE

001

DEFERRED 6-15-68 EXR

TO DIRECTOR

(%)(U)

FROM LEGAI MEXICO CITY

NO •

282

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE Of: CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENTAS SANITIZED

Mr.

Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Moh--

Mr. Bishop-

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felti

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel...

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

GMBRIST

K

3/13/98

ALLEGED THREATS TO GOVERNMENTS OF SPAIN MEXICO T

ENGLAND,

AND JAPAN;

EXTORIION; CUBAN MATTERS •

brasser

Deckasshy on:

DADR

Me Kinfor

REBUCAB JUNE ONE TWO LAST•

TEK

MEXICO CITY NEWSPAPER ULTIMAS NOTICIAS FOR JUNE SEVEN LAST CARRIED AS

(u)

SOCIATED

PRESS DISPAICH TO EFFECT PODER CUBANO CLAIMED TO HAVE SENT CABLE-

GRAMS TO SPAIN, MEXICO, AND ENGLAND THREATENING ACTION IN COMMERCIAL

RELATIONS WITH CUBA NOT BROKEN OFF

CIA

MEXICO. HAS MADE AVAILABLE COPYO

OF CABLEGRAM SENT TO PRESIDENT GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ OF MEXICO DATED JUNE

SEVEN LAST AS DESCRIBED IN REBUCAB. THAT COPY [OBTAINED

FROM CONTACI IN MEXICAN PRESIDENCY S)

THROUGHMEX. - FIVE SIXTIHO, AS -BUREAU KNOWS IS CLOSE RELATIVE

ARRANGEMENTS BEING MADE FOR&

OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION OF RECEIPT OF CABLEGRAM. AMEX - FIVE SIDEWILLE

ASCERTAIN FROM PRESIDENI TUESDAY

" WHEN PRESIDENT

AVALAL ETHER SOME REPRE VE M PRETIC CARS MATOO

TO ACK'AS, WITNESS''FO TESTIFY TO RECEIPT OF CABLEGRAM IF NECESSARY.

ARP YE

FOR. IINFORMATION OF

BUREAU AND

brt ale

MIAMI •

JUN 19 1968

RECEIVED: : 11:05AM

EXR

CC- MR. SULLIVAN

3RD CC MR. BRENNAN

LECRET

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X:

JFK)

ATT. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERDIN'IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCITI WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

NH 50953 DocId: 32287599 Page 2

---

## Page 3

5668 solace

4/30

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt.

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes

Cundy

REC

54117- 43130

SAC, Miami:

(9 2024)

12

SECRET

June 17, 1968

Director, FBI

ALLECED THREATS TO GOVERNWINTS OF

SPAIN,

MEXICO, ENGLAND AND JAPAN;

EXTORTION

CUBAN. MATTERS

00: . MIAMI

1 - Mr.

Kish

ReButel to Miami 6/11/68.

rall

Mexico City newspaper "Ultimas Noticias"

for 6/7/68,

carried

Associated Press dispatch to effeet

Poder Cubano claimed to have sent cablegrams to Spain,

Mexico and

ang and threatening action i commercial

relations with Cuba not broken off

CIA Mexico has

made available copy of cablegram sent to President

Ins tave Dia Dedaz of Mexico dated 6/1/68, as described

in. Bureau cablesram dated 6/12/68.

That Copy

tron contact in Mexican Presidency KS)

whodds close relative and confidant

to President Diaz

Ordaz arrangements being made for official

confirmation of receipt of cablegram. *WEX-56 will ascertaing

Tuesday,

whether some

6/18/68, when President is available,

representative of Presidency can be designated

to act as witness to testify to receipt of cablegram if

necessary.

BAD

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAIREL

Above 105 or ten 02 san

NESSIS IS UNOLASSIFIED

5594

EIT WHERE SHOCK

OTHERWISE:

T508.00

WAK/ 1rk

(4)

(FIL

SEE NOTE PAGE

TWO

• AF

ANT. T

ADVE SET B

SLIT

AT ACRNCIES

STORS

MAILED 3

JUN 1 8 1968

COMM-FBI

55JUN25,

= " MAIL ROOM

SECRET.

TELETYPE UNIT

- in

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANS/O;

RELEASE OF CIA INFURMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

GMB 8/S/8t K 3/13/28

7TH 50953 DOCT: 32287599

Page 3

---

