# 124-10191-10077 62-wf-10995 8 thru 11

## Page 1

6/12/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

FROM:

SAC, WFO (62-10995) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

BUDED JUNE 12, 1978

Re Bureau teletypes, dated 6/5/78 and 6/7/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau are two (2) Xeroxed

copies each of WO airtels to the Bureau captioned,

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM BLACK NATIONALIST-HATE

GROUPS; RACIAL INTELLIGENCE, " dated 4/4/68, and 7/23/68,

respectively.

In accordance with Bureau instructions set forth

in referenced communications, pertinent files were

reviewed for any investigations relating to Dr. MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR,

and the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference (SCLC), in response to Bureau letter to Albany

Et al, 8/25/67, captioned,

"COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,

NATIONALIST-HATE GROUPS, INTERNAL SECURITY" and

Bureau airtel to Albany, et al, 3/4/68, captioned,

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK-NATIONALIST-HATE GROUPS,

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE."

Enclosures

being forwarded herewith reflect

results of WO's review of

yequested by the Bureau.

- Bureau (Enc.4

(1-157-1292)

PW: aih

(4)

guit

rested copie's

422

& Enclosures sir.

62010595

Rotos please

rite

602-1099553

Searched

indexed

Filed

JF

---

## Page 2

INGeR, FBI (100-448005)

70 (157-2992) (2)

12/4/68

leßulet 3/4/68, setting forth goals and targets

of the Counterintelligence Progasm.

Is accordance with the Instructions set forth in

rebulet, the folloving data is submitted:

1)

SA ARIAD 1, MOgEL has been designated as the

coordinator of this progras. This letter sets forth the

combined specifia thoughts, views and efforta of Special

Igents asaigned those organizations and individuals coning

within the category of primary targets of the program, as

mii as the general viers of all Special Agents handling

pacial nattars in Vashington Field.

2) Succinct Sumazy

mac in 5nC has a stalé of sir neople Iscated

at 1234 U Street, N. M, With LESTIA HC KINc as Director.

DREL CAMICE announced new policy of SuCC to actain

unity nong Negroes and then black Power, Muhamad's nosque

fa of the not has about two hundred members, and preaches

"chita devila" will be destroyed; hovever, officiala also

advocate policy of

no participation in dononetrations or

puddle sacresiass.

me lew Schoul of sara-Amecieso mrosi

has about ten dues paying members; Dollie I. FRiend now

Director of the New School and Gaston 1. Neal is the

2

- Bureat

R7O

(1 - 100-41626) (SNCC)

(2-157-467) (2009

(1

•100-42300) (sarc)

(1

- 100-22329) (N01)

(1

100-43503) (STORELY CARMICHAEL)

100-40122)

(1

100-46918

RAP

88. 748

BROWN

MC KIMNIT

157-1292-13

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

Filed

---

## Page 3

N7Q 157-1292

Cultural Director. STOKIY CAMICIARt called meeting of inc

vegroes during Januazy, 1968, from moderates to militants, to

Form a Flack United Front to

act as an umbrella for the protec-

tion of all mamber organizations.

Chi: Cance named temporary

the steering Conmittee, atated he did not want to

unpose his Ideolory ou the group.

ABbAT ROT OSBORNS, aka Col.

HASSAN JERU-ANED, founder of Blacknan'a Volunteer Army of

Liberation, advocates & back to Mizica novenent and separation

of the races.

DE. NATHAN RARE, former professor at Howard

University, 'a black pover advocate" sees possibility of civil

war between whites and Negroes.

sity student, with the now Inactive United Black People's Party,

advocates violence, and has been changed with throwing a fire-

bomb in February, 1968, JULIUS MODSON, Chairaan of Assoclated

Community Jeans (ACT) is quoted in an November, 1967 news

article as urging a black power symposiun to direct les nove-

ment to the downfall of capitalism.

The Communist Party has

not expressed an interest in the black nationalist organizations

333 HDC.

of the organizations named above, SNCC is assessad

to have the greatest inclination to violance.

Propansity for

violence on part of the NOI locally does existin view of the

exhortations by officials of Mil f4 which create an staosphere

of hatred for the mhite race.

These sane officials, howevar,

advise their members not to participate in denonstrationa,

picket lines or publie meetings, since dizorder at gatherings

of this type could ensily be bianed on the follovers of eLIJu

MURAMIAD who night be present.

Inclination for violence on

part of the lar School cannot be discounted in view of 1ts

attraction as a center or stopping off place for local militants.

For all intents and purposes, hovever, the New School operates

under the facade of an institution of learning for the arts,

Negro history and cultural affairs. The Black United Front's

propensity for violence could possibly be neutralized by the

presence of les noderate pertleipants. Membera of the Blacknan's

Volunteer izmy of Ilberation, Lev in nunber locally, ars not

known to have any propensity for violence; however, OSBORNE,

2

---

## Page 4

TO 157-1292

che leader, scrocated destruction of the white nan's property

st a rally 1a Sevark in May, 1967.

In the case of A0r; JUTS

MOSSON is the only Individoal with this erganization who is

aged to lave ary propensity for violence.

Agitator inder subjects wichin the category of black

nationalines are SUZVEN ABBA*

a student spokesman and lender

at terre Universt cy; NAMAN

MARS, former professer st Howerd

and forner chairman of the Vanhington Comittee for Blach: Power,

now dafunct

Te vas a professional boxer locally, and has

since noved to the Rest Coast for teaching

assigment. As fas

as GASTON NEAL is concerned, Informed sources belleve he 19

not a nan of violent nature,

but in viow of his past mental

11lnegs, and the fact he has purchased a .30 caliber rifle and

ammunition sonld tend to indleate that a propensity for violence

on his part does exist.

He was arrested on charges of disorderly

conduct in an altercation at People's Drug Storeat

14th and

U Streets, N. Mo, on the evening of April 2, 1968.

3)

Ongenizationa which appear to be of such potential

danger for counterintalligence considezation seen to revolve

around sUCC and its followers, and/or the organizations which

SNCC actively support,

prizary indiridal target. would be

STORELY CARCTICHASIE

4)

Iz connection with overall consideration in

contemplated

l action and sininistration of the counterintelligence

progras, the fozlowing nay be noted:

zation without local organization and direction. lack of

cobesion la illustrated verela a Buffalo source described

the recently forned National Black Anti-War, Anti-Draft Undon

(NAWADU) as a SNGS operated project In New Tork City; uhereas,

In regard to that organisation's activity in WDO which 1s

supported by the Young Socialist Alliance, JAN BAILEY 1y reported

to have looked upon it askance, and has recently forted his own

Black Anti-Dzaft Union (BADU), and has stated this organization

has nothing to do with SNCC.

---

## Page 5

NFO 157-1292

In regard to SNCC: 2J is probing for weaknesses which

may be uncovered through so 25

in endeavoring to ascertain the

Identity of individuals ine ney be dissatisfied because of

personality claches and/o- riore who may be disenchanted vich

volunteer services for SNCC and have sought a salary; and those

who may be suspect of "vorking for the dan", 1. e., suspect of

being an inferner.

In regard to STOChLY CARMICHARL, NO has carefully

considered hin fron a counterintelligence standpoint since his

arrival in 10G to take up residence in January, 1968.

However,

no positive progran has been developed due to the fact that the

sedition investigation has been under active consideration from

a prosecutive standpoint, and it was felt that a simultaneous

counterintelligence progran if operational agalast CARMICHAL

night tend to angravate possible future prosecution and possibly

lead to embarrassment.

WFO feals that a positive counterintelli-

gence progran rould be warranted against CARMICHAEL, especially

in the absenes of any prosecutive action against him.

assessing CARMICiAL for potential counterintelligence, WrO has

concluded that to be effective, much a progran mat discredit

hin in the Negro commnity where he enjoys considerable popu-

lazity, and vould seeningly have to be stronger than alleged immoral

or un-inarican political Inclinations,

Concerning the Southern Christian Leadership Conference

(SCLC) and the Washington Spring Project (VSP) office 1a HDC,

sources to ara familiar with SCO operations have been instructed

to laok for opportunities to plant seeds of discontent and

dissension between the SCiC and the American Friends Service

cosmittee (ArSC) workers there, particularly in the realm of

funds; and to give rise to rumors that KING seems to be getting

the lion's share of the funds, whereas the AYSC and the poor

people voo are to participate are getting Ilttle or nothing

In the way of financial ald. It has been developed that NSP

recruiter J. I. JOHNSON, since transferred, vas at the center

of a curitroversy concerning dissension In the office. WO 1s

in the process of developing further plans exploiting this

dissension.

---

## Page 6

WRO 157-1292

With regard to MARIIN LUTHER KING, 170 v1l1 contime

to be alert for all possibilities to secura infomation of velor

in counterinzelligence and for use in the program. It 15 felt,

horever, that the office of origin la this matter 15 la a betoe:

position to fully evaluate and be avare of possibilities to

exploit in this prograa.

There is no organized Revolutionary Action Movement

(sue, activity in the Woe area which has tinen to the surrace;

however, in the event any situation should arise which would

lend 1tself to a counterintelligence sove, steps will be taken

to fully pursue that matter.

A source has advised that the Congress of Racial

Equality (CORE) 1s not curtently active in WDO; that It has

no organisational streture os planned program of activity.

CORE has held no sentings l1 the past year.

NPO 1s also looking for spportunities to develop

positive information concerning R. RAP BROWN La this area In

order to posalbly effeet a vorkable countarintelligance aparation.

51 As noted above, WrO will contima to exploit all

passibilities and opportunities to Institute a successful

counteriatelligence progran on the mentioned targets and upon

the fozzulation of a speetfle plan en any partieular organiza-

tion or incividual, vill sabait same by separate letter for

the Bureau's approval.

Alth reference to Bulets af 3/18/58 and 4/2/68, 1a

the above caption outlining counterintelligence situations

with reference to SNCC and the Black United Front, these natters

will be taken up by separate letters to the Bureau.

5

---

## Page 7

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-4408006)

7/23/68

SAO, WEO (157-1292) (P*)

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST - RATE GROUFS

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE

Re Bulet dated 3/4/68 and #FOlet dated 4/4/68.

In accordance with instructions set forth in re Bulet,

the following data is submitted:

PERTINENT CHANGES SINCE DATE OF RE WEOLET:

The Washington, D.C. (NDC) office of SNCC has moved

from 1234 U Street, N. W., to 2208 14th Street, N.W., and has a

small staff. STOKILY CARMICHAEL is affillated with the overall

N.W., WDC.

The Headquarters of the New School for Afro-Aner ican

Thought has been moved fron 2208 14th Street, WDC, to 2115

14th St. N.#.

JEROME JENKINS, has been replaced by SYLVESTER 4X

HESTAR, as Captain of Munamed's Mosque Number Four (MM#4),

WDC:

HESTER was born on 2/15/40. He dropoed out of school ir

the 8th grade and is employed by Safeway Grocery Stores as a

selector in a produce warchouse. He has been affillated with

MM$4 since approximately September, 1957.

The Blacknan's Volunteer Army of Liberation (EVAL)

Is now located at 1642 Newton Street, N.H., WDC, according

to Sgt. JACK ACREE, Intelligence Division, MPD, WDC.

2 - Bureau

@ - wroken

(1 - 100-43503) (CARMICHAEL)'

AAM: nar

(4)

157-1292-71

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

Filed

---

## Page 8

-...

WFO 157-1291

I. Operations Under Consideration:

W7O recently submitted a proposal to the Bureau

regarding a "word of mouth" counterintelligence measure among

selected sources to be directed against STOKELY CARMICHAEL in

an attempt to create the impression within the ghetto community

that he is in fact a paid agent of the Government.

In addition, it could be inferred that Government agents

throughout the U.S.

The above is belleyed to be one of perhaps a few

counterintelligence measures that could be effective against

CArMICHARi. Any allegation of imorality or illegal activity

would only enhance his reputation within the ghetto.

CARMICHARI has not gone through with the purchase of

the $70,000 house, but it should not be overlooked that he is

already living in a house valued near $50,000, which a source

has reported is to be completely refurnished and has already

been carpeted throughout.

WEO will recommend dissemination to

appropriate news media in this respect in the near future.

WFO will continue to remain alert to situations wherein

a counterintelligence measure would be timely against the various

hate groups and Individuals Involved therewith.

It should be borne in mind; however, that any counter-

intelligence measure against any of these groups or individuals

requires a different approach than the usual counterintelligence

ToTal As polated out above, regarding CARMICHAEL, any

ot likegal act improves their Image ilthin the ghetto

conmunity.

In addition, the very nature of some of the Individuals

which comprise these groups lends. to a certain disunity fil

itself as Illustrated within Resurrection City. Perhape more

thought should be given to breeding discontent within the varioug

groups, which if successful, would render a leader "groupless."

---

## Page 9

N20 157-1292

II. Operations Being Effected:

As pointed out above, WrO has submitted a proposal

to the Bureau

regarding CARMICHAEL and will implement same upon

authorization by the Bureau.

III. Tangible Results:

WEO was in the process of subnitting a recommendation

regarding cue purchase of

a $70,000 house by CArMIChAEL, proposing

release of this intormation to appropriate news media for

publication upon consumation of the purchase, when news articles

regarding this purchase appeared. As the Bureau 15 aware,

CARMICHAET, and MIRIAM MAKEBA thereafter cancelled the contract

to buy this property, claiming inability to obtain suitable

financing.

As the Bureau pointed out, it has had an effect

on his reputation among some black militants.

IV. Developments of Counterintelligence Interest:

It is noted that WFD has continuously considered what

would be effective counterintelligence measures against various

hate groups and certain individuals such as CARMICHAM. The

April, 1968, riots In WDC and the presence of the "Poor Peoples

Campaign" has certainly influenced the course of action by some

of these groups and has in fact been responsible for the creation

of others. The "Black United Front" (BUF), which CARMICHARL

formed, has been more noticeably active as of late and recently,

for example, took a definite stand on the shooting of two white

policemen by a Negro robbery suspect and his accomplice in the

shooting, stating black men have a right to defend themselves

against the "honky" policemen.

The news media has been dominated by the above since the

assassination of DI. MARTIN LUTHER RING, JR., and perhaps calls

for a different approach to an effective counteringelligence pro-

gram than prior to the riots. It Is further felt that a more at

effective use of news media could be made in the future In that

an article may receive more attention thana during the past few

months.

WFO will remain alert to situations which can be

capitilized on under the counterintelligence program and will at

advise Bureau under individual case captions along with

approprlate recomendations.

3

---

## Page 10

Washington,

D.C.

October

6, 1978

20535

HOUSE SELECT COMMITIFE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (ISCA)

on september 21, 1978, SA John T. Aldhizer III,

Congressional Inquiry Unit, FBIIQ,

telephonically advisec

that the House Assassinations Cormittee desired to interview

Special Agent (SA) John i. NcBreen, Washington Field

Office as soon as possible regarding investigative leads

covered by SA McBreen during the MURKIN

investigation

while assigned to the Miami Division.

On September 28, 1978, Mark A. Speiser, Staff

Counsel, House Assassination Committee, House Building

Annex #2, Washington, D.C. (WDC) , interviewed SA NcBreen.

After furnishing background information such as name,

date of birth, home address, etc.,

Speiser inquired as

to the

length

of assignment

in Miani

and type classifications

worked. It was pointed out to speiser that although

assigned

to the Accounting Squad, SA McBreen worked

exclusively Civil Rights Matters, particularly "police

brutality" type violations. After discussing these matters

briefly, Speiser displayed

a photocopy of a Miami teletype

bearing the initials JCM.

The teletype reported a contact

with a fir. Summerfield (ph), who, according to speiser,

was a former Bureau and local police department informant,

now deceased.

SA Mcbreen disclaimed any knowledge of

the teletype

message and further identified his Bureau

initials as JJM. With this disclosure, the interview

was terminated.

10995%

SE NCHED

SERIALIZED

INDEXED

FILED

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FPI, and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

4-Bureau

1+WFO

JJM: kph

---

## Page 11

Airtel

10/6/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

(ATTENTION:

CONGRESSIONAL, INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENI DIVISION

FROM: SAC, WFO (62-10995) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

ReButelcal 9/27/78.

Enclosed for Bureau is original and three (3)

copies of IHM reporting

interview of SA JOHN J. MCBREEN

by HSCA Staff Counsel.

4)

(Enc. I)eph

pur.

S

62.1009510

SEARONED

SETINLZED

MICEXED

FILED -

YRS.

DESTROY:

RETAIN:

---

## Page 12

F.D-36 (Rev. 5-22-78)

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

[] Immediate

• Priority

I Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

D TOP SECRET

I SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

OR UNCLAS EFTO

• UNCLAS

Date

)

12/1/78

09

-EN WASHINGTON FIELD 162-75

TO DIRECTOR FBI ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS E F TO

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS; DR. MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR. - DECEASED, INFORMATION CONCERNING

ON NOVEMBER 27, 1978, MR. R.J. THOMAS OF 1307 NORTH

IRVING STREET, ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA, TELEPHONE 524-2542,

ADVISED A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

(FBI) THAT THE CAPTIONED SUBJECT CAME INTO A STORE IN WHICH HE

USED TO WORK IN 1966, CALLED ROSENTHALS, WHICH WAS LOCATED AT

THAT TIME AT 1732 K STREET, WASHINGTON, D.C. (WDC) •

THOMAS SAID THAT KING PICKED UP A CABANA OUTFIT AND WALKED

OUT OF THE STORE WITHOUT PAYING FOR SAME. THOMAS STATED

THAT HE LATER FOUND OUT THAT KING WAS STAYING AT THE STATLER

HILTON IN WDC, SO MR. THOMAS AND HIS BOSS, HARVEY ROSENTHAL,

62.

10945-

SEAPCHEN SELMED

SEMALE PERIN ALR

TDM : aih

(1)

T.

Approved:

(Number)

(Time)

---

## Page 13

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-78)

TRANSMIT FiA:

I Teletype

[] Facsimile

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

I Immediate

0] Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

I TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EF TO

UNCLAS

Date

PAGE

TWO DE WE 0001

UNCLAS

--------

E

F TO

SENT KING A BILL AT THE STATLER HILTON. ACCORDING TO THOMAS,

THE BILL WAS PAID FOR THREE DAYS LATER, NOT BY KING, BUT

BY THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY.

IN CONCLUSION, THOMAS SAID THAT HE THOUGHT THIS INFORMATION

COULD BE OF VALUE TO THE FBI. HE ALSO STATED THAT "HE

DOESN'T WANT TO BE CONSIDERED A NUT."

ADMINISTRATIVE:

ABOVE BEING FURNISHED FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU.

SC JEAN STUM WAS THE INDIVIDUAL AT WASHINGTON FIELD

WHO RECEIVED THE ABOVE INFORMATION AT WASHINGTON FIELD ON

NOVEMBER 27, 1978.

BT

#0001

Approved:

Transmitted _

(Number)

(Time)

Per

---

## Page 14

TD T, Mchore, I

"miendo0e Aalae Gebd eho Gn enbrd Ocd Co Geonnü HÖdlen

aclolo son di alhior Coo mild Cont Cio Math Cadeh aodoiid

-tolo erachà oando coc mihvà tnbhàn acoià Chà d0 ünö

-Alin dio Maäho mwdo dcil danudd oued dond divo ddinnd

Glelle?. (?!.

JAdOdO AOEt dE Ti MId

AmaeweeT meo Melmo doTVendBOe CaTle Geül Ni meon da taon

dn nütanmo coole dcanl sioo difeno candhdeto doi dit (iid)

icmmidochno do timnnk Trneucd cnd d0 dhidmmniadaoorarther

Csorres anoneado GindodiA Odod Tor "Labulo eunei

? 1TOTУ

.201 Lü cacxalu: :0

minohendh nollinddari

-aoad meso benle aaralT

Iwn oeu turCildulodtesd n0 aabbianoo Loäleo adnön

Wtm eew lii!

2Ä400• IC2 2010201 01

-s) mala -Oiunlnaor ia

oi üch aoselle=

mo1522 Ta.

en m0

Un au

roüane20nd

ii =

---

## Page 15

102D

• BAI IVOISIMIWOV

Ode enland been do Grabbe

---

## Page 16

VZCZCWF0090

RR W0

DE UP

0271 3351200

ZNY FERS5

611759 2 DEC 78

FU WASHINGTON FIELD

152 M

TO DIRECTOR F3I ROUTTUC

BT

UNCLAS EFTO

HOUCE SELECT COMMITTES OU ASSASSINATIONS DRA MARTIN

LUTHER KING, UR. - DROEACCO, IMFORMATION CORCEPNINO

o: NOVEMBRe 974 19704 Mo ROJo THOYAC OF 1307 VOPTM

IRVICG SIRECT, AAL INCTON, VIRGINIA, TELEPHONE 524-2542,

NOILVSIISEAMI SO D03608 7020028 24& SO BALVIA2536020 0851 AQV

S37I74S SHE LV ONIAVIS SVA SMIX AVAL S0O 00608 52207 3h

10H2

CELVIS SUNOM 3465 COs SAIXVE ANOHIlD 33018 Sha 30 1h0

THOMAS SAID THAT KING PIONED UP A CADAMA OUTRIT AND WALKED

THAT TIME AT 1702 Y STREET, MASHINGTON, DOC. (WOOS.

LISTO TO MORY IN DOGS, CALLED ROSENT ALS, "HICH WAR LOGATED AT

---

## Page 17

18

•L67 2E 23SW30ON

CIRIA HOLONINSWA IN TOGIALON 3AZ SOM WIIS NOF OS

#AMIEVALSIAIWOV

ShA IVAL GOIVIS 0577 28 °I8& BNA OL 300VA 20 38 67000

•SUWONS OI UNIGADOON •NOUTIM 20101S DAS LE MIO NONIX 102S

0=2 a S07or0 Todd sa 30 ond 3ovd

---

