# 124-10284-10081

## Page 1

124-10284-10081|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10081

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-85440-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 08/11/1967

PAGES:

185

SUBJECTS :

MAB, ASSOC, CUBAN EXILES, MIL ACT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

• RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC S/S, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

SEUNCI

a lIaison capacity with the MRR and prospective defectee pilots of

Cuban airlines.

His operations were directed by Dr. Manuel Artime

serving as Secretary General of the MRR.

was in daily

telephonic contact with Salvador Aldereguia and Antonio Bascaro,

two members of the Cuban Revolutionary Army who were in exile in

Dutch west Indies, and through Artime was attempting to arrange for

their admission into the US.

97-4313-3 p.]

1632)

August, 1960, reportedly

"MRR

- Camilo

1au, reportedly Bata ban national t

a Cuban national living in NYC as of

said that he was affiliated with the

Cienfuegos"

and claimed to be in close contact with

the

"real MRR" in Cuba.

He said that Manuel Artime was not entirely

sound, but that the movement in cuba now was well organize ana

beginning to show signs of progress. (CIA, 9/1/60)

105-91331-1 p.2

(41%

T803rclel 5818214326

SECRET

-10 -

NH 50953

DooId: 32303569

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

a cotton broker of

Atlanta, Georgia who was closely associated with Francisco Gualberto

Cuban Unity of Liberation

a Garcia Del Pradoluozin (105-88041), turnisned information

Florida,

civilian leader of the

to Miami Office Agents on 9/12/60.

cajigas

had told Fernandez that

Father Medina, Rector of Villanueva University, Havana, arrived in

from Havana, on 9/5/60, for the purpose of contacting

Cajigas and offering him the help and resources of the Catholic

Church in Cuba in his fight against Castro.

according to Cajigas, Father Medina advised that the Catholic Church

in Cuba was opposed to Manuel Antonio Varona of the FRD. Father

Medina also disclosed to Cajigas that Manuel Artime, one of the five

leaders of the FRD, had visited Medina and had confided that the

FRo was, divided and unhappy. u

105-88041-6 encl.p.5

139)

of

information, advised on 9/0/0U that he had been told by Carlos

Marquez Sterling that Antonio (Tony) Varona was coming to Washington,

Dc on 9/16/60, where he planned to confer with officials of the

Department of

State and CIA concerning the eventual unification of

the various anti-Castro groups then in existence. At that time,

Varona was to discuss what assistance this group might expect from

the US and he also would provide the identity of various anti-Castro

groups known to him. Among persons under consideration by Sterling,

Varona, and others. for inclusion in this unified organization was

Sterling had been a Cuban president-

ial aspirant during the election of 1958 and Varona was a former

Cuban Senator now in exile in Miami, Florida.

109-584-1916

(22)

advised on 10/6/60 that through an intermediary

Inot. lurther identified) he had been in contact with Manuel Artime

Buesa, military leader and member 'of the FRD, and had offered to join

the FRD provided the FRD would manifest certain stipulations. (Date

(continued)

SECRET

-12-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 3

---

## Page 4

advised on 8/22/63 that he had been

deported from cuba in september, 1901.

stated that

was a member of the MRR, identified as

a counterrevolutionary

SECRET

group which was headed by Manuel Artimes

of the 4/17/51 Bay of Ples Invasion (310) Was was one at the leaders

he acted in a sort of liaison

capacity between the MRk and other

counterrevolutionary groups.

105-171153-15

(73)

On 1/2/62,

advised that the 30th of November Movement (105-92196) was

founded originally by Manuel Artime (date not indicated) and was

composed largely of Catholic students in Cuba.

November 30th was the date on which Huber Matos,

former military

commander of Cameguey Province in Cuba, was arrested by Fidel Castro

and sentenced to prison for being a traitor to the Cuban Revolution.

105-92196-28 p.3

(47%

SI 105-92196-17 encl.p.1

(41%

The MRR, an underground movement formed in Cuba in mid-1959,

was composed primarily of

(1) the ACU, under

Manuel F. Artime Buesa; (2) a military group under

Major Ricardo

de la Lorie Valls; and (3) an air group, without planes, of 13

experienced pilots under

Major Antonio Michel Yabor.

The ACU was in

existence prior to the Castro regime as the Cuban Catholic University

(CACU) students organization. In November: 1959, under Artime's

leadership, the majority of

the CACU membership joined with the

Rebel Army Officer group to become the MRR. In February, 1950, a

coordinated movement of anti-Castro exiles outside Cuba was formed

in Mexico and named the MRR.

Artime and Lorie were joint heads of

this newly formed group. About the middle of 1960, Artime, who was

in the US, reportedly began to act without authority from

the MRR

Directorate, which resulted in formation of the MRR splinter group,

(continued)

-21- SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 4

---

## Page 5

(continued)

SECRET

Cuba since the ill-fated 4/17/61 Playa Giron invasion.

On 12/29/62, President John F. Kennedy visited the Urange

Bowl Stadium, Miami, where he reviewed the returned prisoners of

He was accompanied by Jose

Artime,

Kennedy •

on the speakers,

Miro Cardona and Manuel

stand with President

After Artime's

return to the US, he used his influence with

the US Government to obtain an interview with President Kennedy in

Palm Beach, Florida.

He was to continue as head of the MRR.

made a good appearance, spoke English, and had charmed US Government

officials who were in charge of government policy between the US

and Cuba.

He was extremely ambitious and would like to be the head

of the CRC and orobably the future President of Cuba.

1/4/63).11

As a result of nationwide press, radio, and television

coverage of President Kennedy's 12/29/62 activities at the Orange

Bowl, which coverage prominently mentioned Artime's name, Artime

was better known and his position in the anti-Fidel Castro

movement was greatly increased. Generally among Cuban exiles Artime

was considered young, immature, and highly ambitious and many felt

that he would be the victim of his own publicity.

97-4133-57 p.1,3-5

(290)

The 1/6/63 issue of the "Miami Herald" carried an article

entitled "Rift Develops in Invasion Brigade; 100 Boycotted JFK Here."

This related to boycott by Cuban Brigade 2506 (105-117331) prisoners

of President Kennedy's 12/29/62 appearance at the Orange Bowl to

welcome the returned prisoners.

The article stated that Enrique

Llaca,

Ur., recently released from Castro's prisons, singled out

Manuel Artime and Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, head of the

CRC, for

criticism, declaring they were using the Brigade for their personal

benefits.

Both Artime and Miro Cardona denied this.

The Brigade,

under the leadership of Artime and a joint chiefs of staff, had set

up headquarters in Miami.

SECRET

(continued)

-26-

e(u)

7TH 50953 DOCTO: 32303569

Page 5

---

## Page 6

(continued)

SECRET

The 1/6/63 issue of the "Miami News"

, in an article

entitled

I "Brigade 2506 Meets Monday to Map Plans"

, set out the names

of the Joint Chiefs of staff of the Brigade and quoted Artime as

stating:

"We have fought only one battle and we are certain the

a vera in is file .

On 1/9/63

avised that 24 hours after being

received by President kennedy at the Orange Bowl, the group headed

by Enrique Llaca Orbiz appeared on Channel 10 Television, Miami.

During their appearance they stated that they were opposed to the

CRO and to Manuel Artime, chief of the Brigade. U

105-117331-1 encl.p.2,3,6,9

(50%

hs

AJU

[u]

SECRET

a)

-27-

7803 rod'gel sal, 32%

130/82. see I5r and sadl

set of bracket

IT 50953

DoeTd: 32303569

Page 6

---

## Page 7

(continued)

REFERENCE

105-99200-A Washington Capital News Service,

12/24/62

-A

Washington Capital News Service,

12/26/62

-A "The Miami Herald"

12/26/62

"All-Out Effort Would Topple

Sastro - Artime"

; also,

"Not a Turncoat Among Them.")

(Photograph of Artime appeared

in both articles).

SEDIE BEPICK SINE FATE SOME

146%

(46%

(46)

105-107224-A

Washington Capital News Service,

(48)

12/25/62

и)

reported that a meeting of anti-Castro exiles

scheduled for 8:30?.M., 1/27/63, at St. Patrick's Academy, 924 G

Street, N.W., Washington, DC,

was to be addressed by Commandante

Manuel

Artime, Cuban exile military figure who participated in the

111-fated Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in April, 1901. Artime,

temporarily, was in Washington with associates, including Commandante

Jose Perez San Roman, who likewise figured in the Bay of Pigs inva-

sion.

109-504-3405

160.

Washington Capital News Service released datelined Miami,

2/6/63, reported that the Cuban Brigade, which participated in the

abortive Bay of Pigs invasion,

was preparing militarily to try again

to liberate Cuba, according to a statement made that day in Miami,

by Manuel Artime, Brigade leader. Artime told UPI he was speaking as

an individual and not as secretar unine or actre waR, or the

Brigade. He called on Cubans to

and on all free

(continued)

SEPPET

-29-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

(continued)

publicize the movement on 4/11/63. He appeared to have the backing

of Manuel Artime, who had been seen with Rivero quite frequently

during the past week (place not indicated), and possibly that of

Jose Miro Cardona, president of the CRC. Artime dealt with Miro

through Carlos Pelaez Cossio, a former senator under Gomez and

Batista (sic) and a personal confidant of both Miro and Artime

This reference indicated that foregoing

acquired on 4/10/63 in the US (place not given)

105-117331-7 p.2

information was

9803 add/sel 24,326

4130/92

indicating that during January, 1963, some MRR (97-4133) functionaries

participated in unity discussions with other Cuban revolutionary

organizations. The MRR problem was complicated by the recent return

to the US from imprisonment in Cuba, of Manuel Artime Buesa, MRR

leader who had participated in the April, 1961 invasion attempt.

In late January, 1963, Jose Miro Cardona, head of the CRC, tried to

overthrow the MRR leadership of Artime.

cated), Artime was expelled and Oviedo was named. MRR Secretary

General. A document (quoted) entitled "Renova, apa toulaid

Dr. Manuel Artime Buesa"

was made available by

Manuel Villamanan (protect identity), Cuban exile in miami,

that Artime still was undisputed head of the MRR; that about 75% of

Brigade 2506 was sympathetic with the MRR; that Erneido Oliva of

Brigade 2506 was

very close to Artime and in agreement with Artime on both

the military and political aspects of the fight against communism in

Cuba; and that the MRR was not making clandestine trips to Cuba at

that time. (Details set out) - Ul

97-4133-60 p.1-3,5-8

(40300

The following

references relate to an alleged aerial

over Habana. Cuba. durine

the night of 4/25/63, in which action

reportedly was

involved.

(continued)

SECRET

-32-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 8

---

## Page 9

(continued)

against Artime and considered him a demagogue. Y

1075584-3822 p. 1-6

SI 105-97873-18 encl.p.5

(Felipe Vidal Santiago,

12/17/63).

(447

It was reported on 1/22/64 that no further conversations

between former Nicaraguan President Luis Somoza and former Cuban

President Carlos Prio Socarras were known to have taken place con-

cerning

"Operacion Centroamericana"*. This project continued to be

at a standstill and activities of Manuel Artime, MRR leader, apparently

not connected with it, although no open break with Prio had been

made. Artime was slowly strengthening and training a group of exiles

in Nicaragua.

The MRP (105-92704) claimed that. Artime

was

receiving

aid from the Nicaraguan Government and from the US.

3

The Alliance of MRP - Alpha 66 - SFNE would consider joining

forces

with Artime when his organization had developed sufficient

strength to make an attack on Cuba feasible le

appearing elsewhere in this summary.

, a cuban exile, advised.

on 1/24/04 that supporters of Manuel Antonio de Varona, head of the

CRC (105-107224), and of Jose Miro Cardona, would oppose Manuel

Artime, head of the MRR, should Artime return to Cuba as head of an

anti-Castro force.

Jexplained that Varona and Miro accused Artime

(continued)

SEGRET SS-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Miami report dated 3/19/64, set out activities of Manuel

Artime Buesa as head of the MRR.

This included Artime's travels

between the US and Nicaragua and Costa Rica; his

recruiting activities

in behalf of his anti-Castro training program and including a number

of cuban exiles recruited out of the US Army for service with ncers.

group; the alleged grand style of living of Artime and his follo

and his operation of training camps in Nicaragua where he reportedigi

more than five million dollars worth of military equipment. It

was alleged that Artime was being officially sponsored and subsidized

and that he made

a living out of the revolution. In early 1964, when

the Pro-Referendum Committee was polling the Cuban exiles for a Cuban

referendum election to be held in May, Artime was reported to be

against this referendum.

Reference also set out information reported

on 2/12/64 that Adelaida Padron Cruz, 881 N.E. 71st Street, Miami,

continued to be Artime's mistress and that this residence was used

by him for secret meetings.

109-584-3884 p.1,7-10,13,18

(17,620

a Cuban exile, 1440

Jon 4/3/64 that he was one of the

ransomed prisoners of the April, 1961 Cuban invasion and had returned

to the US on 12/24/62. He stated that the support of the US to the

Cuban invasion and its support to the movement of cuban exile leader

Manuel Artime

• in Central America, were two events which precluded

prosecution of Cuban exiles for violation of neutrality.

said it was general information among Cuban exiles in Miami that

Artime and members of his organization, the MRR, were receiving US

assistance in some manner in connection with the

training camps in Central America. l

establishment of

105-124552-3 encl.p.9

(520%

of CIA (62-80750) furnished information on a strictly S

contidential basis, requesting that this information not be disseminated

outside the Bureau. This pertalned to the involvement in anti-Gastro

Ku)

SECRET

(continued)

9803 ida/gel +211,3264130/42

-58-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

As of 3/10/64, the MRR (97-4133) in the San Francisco,

Calif. area, was conducting a recruitment program for a group to

start military training within the next 2 months at an unknown

Location under the leadership of Manuel Artime.

MRR official and PSI under development (X)

As of. 4/20/64, the Northern California MRR membership

had conducted a similar

program.

No further move was to be made

until word was received from Artime, following which recruits

probably would proceed to Miami for further instructions. It was

the general feeline in MRR that the US Government was supporting

97-4133-103 encl.p.1,2

The Newark Office, on 4/16/64, reported that

advised on 4/1/64 that a couple

of days previously, several members of Cuban Brigade 2506 who had

visited Washington, DC and Miami, Florida, returned to the New York

While in Miami they tried

to see Manuel Artime but he was in

Central America. Instead, they saw Antonio Iglesia Pons,

who was in

charge of military affairs

for Artime.

Artime did not have control

of military activities but

served as a figurehead and the go-between

with the US Government.

On 4/15/64,

stated that several members of the Brigade

again would go to Miami on 4/20/64, and from there to Central America

to the training camps set up by Artime. Artime was reported to have

two bases

in Central America, one in

and the other in

109-584-3912

(62)

In connection with foregoing, Bureau memo dated 4/24/64,

(u)

set out CIA's appraisal of this and

other information furnished by

the Newark Office and disseminated to CIA.

According to CIA on 4/23/64, 8)

(continued)

9503 2da/gel $211.326

4130/92

SECRET

-61-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 11

---

## Page 12

(continued)

SECRET

Antonio Iglesia Pons was in charge of the

base

as a camp

commander, but was not in charge of military affairs for

Artime

memo also set out information

relationship

with Artime

3

-09-504-391

IP 52-s advisea that rodrigo calderon of Miami, Florida,

a former high ranking officer in Cuba under former dictator Fulgencio

Batista, came to Tampa on 4/25/64 and met secretly with other Batista

followers.

This group met for the purpose of formulating plans of

i met rest a pot 00

their own in the event Fidel Castro was overthrown in the near future

It was felt

that this group feared Manuel Artime and desired to formulate plans

to be able to re-enter Cuba because it was common knowledge that

some Batista supporters would be regarded as undesirables in Cuba

when Castro was thrown out. It was believed that this meeting was

held at the home of a woman doctor by the name of Dr. Miranda.

Others present were Dr. Jose Mijares and a Dr. Santos, who worked

for Hillsborough county in Tampa.

{4)

59-584-3914

(62)

In 1960

the over-all objective of which was the establish-

ment us an urganizavion among Cuban exiles capable of replacing the

Castro government.

In May; 1960, L

_the names of Cuban.

making up the nucleus of the organization which would move against

Castro and which would publicly announce its existence under the

name of Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD - Revolutionary

Democratic Front) (105-87912). On 6/22/60, a manifesto was published

in Mexico City, Mexico, announcing the formation of the FRD. Directo

of this organization who signed the manifesto and were in Mexico City

(U)

(continued)

9503222/508211326

4130/98

SEU

-62-

HTH 50953 DOCTO: 32303569

Page 12

---

## Page 13

MUT

9803 pald2/ge1

4241326

4/3662

109-584-394

17,627

Press reports indicated that on 5/13/64, the MRR issued a

communique advising of the capture of the fort of tilon in cuba and

demolition of a sugar mill.

Manuel Artime participated.

The communi-

que was signed by Manuel Artime Buesa, Secretary General, and Rafael

Quintero, Military Coordinator of the MRR.

The raid on the sugar

refinery at Central Pilon, Oriente Province, was reported also by

CSNY 2822-S

and verified by Frank McCarthy, UPI, and Julio Lubo,

former owner of Central Pilon. The following references on Artime

relate to this activity: l

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(15,607

97-4133-99 (Setting out press release as

furnished by Dr. Cesar Baro

Esteva, Vice-Secretary General,

MRR)

-102*

-A

11

-A

5/14/64

p.1

("Cuban Exiles Say They Seized

Port").

Washington

Capital News Service

5/13/64

105-114543-126

*Add. info.

4(4) 1557

16,337

133%

150%

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32303569

Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

On

continued

as

advised that Manuel Artime Buesa

head of the MRk which maintained headquarters at 2212

N.E. 2nd Court, Miami. de

(u]

"He and about 10 others

would leave

Jus venural america to join Artime. L

[4]

5/12/64,

advised that

Artime would leave Miami on 5/12 or 13/04 for Costa Rica, his Central

American headquarters, and then go to

where he reportedly

had military training

is an about a week person

rtime was expected to return to cr

Add. info.

109-584-3976 p.8,9 .

(17,6307

St as par. 2

105-117222-182 encl.p.3,4

(ada. info.)

(12550 2 00

a former member of Brigade 2506 which

participated in the April, 1961 invasion of Cuba, advised on 4/2/64,

that he had made a trip to Washington, DC and Miami, Florida in mid-

March, 1964, and had talked to representatives of Brigade 2506.

Oms

stated that leaders of Brigade 2506 in the Miami area were not con-

templating doing anything at the present time in a military way to

overthrow Fidel Castro. Most of them were not in sympathy with

Manuel Artime Buesa who formerly was the civilian head of Brigade

2506.

Oms stated that some former members of Brigade 2506 had gone

with Artime and Artime was reported to have military camps in

Artime currently was the head of the MRR

and was

reported to be preparing for raids and guerrilla activity in

Cuba In the Immediate future. L

On 5/13/64, CSNY 2822-S advised that his niece (not further

identified) recently

had a letter from Joaquin Godoy of the MRP. Godoy

(continued)

SECRET

-68-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 14

---

## Page 15

(continued 109-584-3949)

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

109-584-A

article entitled "Cuban Forays

Indicate": 2 Units: Plan Strikes"

from the 5/16/64 issue of

the

"Washington Evening Star")

Press Release for 5/22/64

tor king rations syndicate, Inc.

SECRET

(655

"The Washington Post and Times Herald"

in an article

entitled

"Cuba's Dil Refinertes 'Ore Lots'"

p.B-(.

in

Jack Anderson's

"Washington Merry-Go-Round"

column, reported that

these orders regarding the refineries were issued to Cuban Commandos

by CIA. An aide to Cuban exile leader Manuel Artime had explained

to this column:

"We don't want to damage foreign property.

A year

before, Artime had complained to this column that CIA had cut the

allowance for his freedom fighters down to a token $1000 a month.

He hadn't complained recently.

97-4133-A, "The Washington Post

and Times Herald"

5/30/64

(330)

not a CIA. operation.

had been maintaining liaison with him on a

claimed control over the MRR and Artime.

On 6/17/64

Fontanills y Miguel

Artime and the MRR.

Manuel Artime, and

105-129278) as

being connected with Manuel

SECRET

105-129278-3 p.1,2;enc1.p.3

9803 1d/gel *241,326

4/30/93

-71-

HTH 50953 DOCTO: 32303569

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

(continued)

Information from Mesa, developed through

Inaicated.that as

oI December- 1963, the MRR was reported to be sending a 5-man team

into Cuba once a month for the purpose of assassination, with Fidel

and Raul Castro and

Che Guevara as the principal targets.

Communi

cations between Cuba and the US allegedly were through clandestine

short wave radio. Mesa returned to Minneapolis on 1/5/64, from a

Mesa advised

Venezuela in 1964. According to

the MRR in the Twin Cities

area was. disbanded in July, 1964, upon orders of Manuel Artime

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBE

97-4133-77

4,301

- 82

3a,720

-83

50537

-84 encl.p.2

72

-92 encl.p.1,2

31

-134

32

Cuban exiles were saying that the US was providing a steady

flow of aid to the MRR which was led by Manuel Artime Buesa.

Some

exiles claimed that the MRR attack on Puerto Pilon in May. 1964, was

launched from the. Dominican Republic.

There was no evidence that

Artime was receiving support from the Venezuelan Government.

His

failure to establish personal contact with the Venezuelan Administra

tion during his 5/22-27/64 visit to Caracas, had provoked

criticism

in government circles.

Some disillusionment with the MRR was said

leader of the militant exile forces. (CIA, 7/16/64)-

109-584-4034

(17,6307

During an interview on 10/22/64

intimated

(continued)

-SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

(continued)

placing himself in absolute control without heeding the ideological

postulates of the movement; and his failure

to live up to the stand-

ards he had

set up for the organization.

The "Miami News"

, Miami, Florida,

7/5/64, reported that:

on the previous day, Artime ordered all his

men to report to south

American training camps immediately. L

On 7/9/64,

INS Investigator,

Miami, advised that

the mer nad closed Its miami neadquarters and

moved to Central America, but had established a secret underground

office somewhere in Miami. On 8/4/64,

_stated that numerous

MRR members went to Central America to join Artime during July, 1964

and that the MRR claimed it would move all of its records and

equipment out of Miami by chartered

airplane to Artime's headquarters

in Central America.

The MRR had a large ship that operated between

The ship, name unknown,

central Anerica and New OrleanS using letterhead stationary containing

was operated by

the following:

"Maritima Bom,

S.A., Coconut Grove Bank Building, Suite

309, Miami, Florida, Phone #

to have Post Office boxes

444-5781-82.

This company also claimed

in

listed as President

Panama, and

Sixto Mesa was

on 7/28/64,

under development, advised that the rank and file MRR members continued

to severely criticize Artime for maintaining his mistress,

Adelaida

Padron Cruz.

She reportedly had great influence over Artime and some

or his decisions concerning the MRR's operations had been influenced

by her and objected to by the general membership

On 8/18/64, Miguel Dotres, 8418 N.W. 24th Avenhe, Miami,

advised that in late

March or early

April, 1964, Aldo Vera Serafin,

head of an anti-Castro organization (not

further identified), con-

ferred with Artime and brought his organization into Artime's organ-.

ization.

Dotres furnished information indicating

that Artime was

against Baro's proposal that the MRR be headed by a 7-man board; also.

that the Cuban exile community doubted that Artime was a factor which

eventually would figure in the overthrow of the present Cuban Govern-

ment.

SECRET

97-4133-115 encl.p. 1-8

(5,32008

(continued)

-76-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

on early October: 1964, the Alliance of the MRP - SFNE

(105-112098) - Alpha 66 Cuban exile group was planning to initiate

armed action in Cuba and its paramilitary organization had been moved

from the US (place not indicated) to prepare for infiltration of cuba.

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, military leader of the Alliance, had issued

strict instructions that there should be no collaboration at any

level with the MRR or the JURE during the process of infiltration.

Gutierrez had no faith in the ability or willingness of Manuel Artime

or Manuel Ray to adhere to a joint infiltration program. Once in

A delegation of the MRR,

neaded by Artime, was expected to

arrive in caracas in early October to seek support from the venezuelar

Government

и)

105-112098-540

98831d2/gel 8211,326

4430/42.

On 10/24/64, Firmin Joseph, representative of a group

of

Haitian exiles dedicated to the overthrow of Dictator Francois

Duvalier, said that the schedule for

• forthcoming after the US elections.

an invasion of Haiti would be

Joseph said that a house in

northwest Miami, which currently was being used to billet some of his

men, was visited recently by a Cuban whom Joseph

believed

was from

Manuel Artime Buesa's group, the MRR. (CIA)

(u)

2-1622-273 p.2

WA

auvised on 12/1/04 that the political activities

oI this group would

be to offset the

"right wing conservatism"

Manuel Artime Buesa.

MRR.

As of mid-December: 1964, Artime continued to head the

Some exiles felt that recent

scandals (not further identified)

(continued)

-79-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 18

---

## Page 19

(continued)

SECRET

in Costa Rica involving Artime had discredited the anti-Castro move-

ment, which might result in the withdrawal of support of cuban exiles

by the American people and the US Government.

Add. info.

109-584-4114 p.3,4,8

(18,630

Robert Dennis Arrington (105-96912) of Los Angeles, à US

citizen: who had entered Nicarágua on 12/8/64, was arrested by

Nicaraguan officials on 12/17/64 for alleged possession of illegal

arms and plotting the overthrow of the Nicaraguan Government.

had come to the attention of Nicaraguan authorities when he tried

to make contact in Managua with anti-Castro Cubans in

an attempt

to interest them in buying the arms he was

carrying. In Managua,.

at the Gran Hotel (date not indicated) Arrington met an unnamed

Cuban who promised to take him to see Manuel Artime who was expected.

momentarily; however, this Cuban never

came back to see

Arrington.

Foregoing information on Artime is covered in the following

references:

REFERENCE

97-4948-7p.12

105-81431-12 p.12

105-96912-9p.9

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

On

advised that the MRR (97-4133) con-

tinued to be headed by Manuel Artime Buesa,

traveled continuously

a Cuban exile doctor who

• in the US, Central America and the Caribbean.

On 12/10/64, MM 639-S advised that different Cuban exile

leaders

continued to claim

that Artime and the MR were making a living)

(continued)

-80-

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 19

---

## Page 20

(continued)

SEUNER

off the Cuban revolutionary activities; were engaged in smuggling

instead of anticommunist warfare; and were misappropriating funds

designed for commando and infiltration activity against the present

government of Cuba.

MM 639-S continued that it was claimed

Artime's men returned from Central America very disenchanted,

with large sums of money earned through illegal activity.

According to reports from the Costa Rican newspaper

Nacion"

training camp in Costa Rica, and in November

1964, Customs Authorities found Cubans smuggling large shipments of

whiskey from Panama into Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Santiago Alvarez

Miami, a Cuban exile and leading figure

in the MRR, advised on 12/17/64, that after the November scandals

the alleged smuggling activities of the MRR, Artime reportedly

visited with Costa Rican President Francisco J. Orlich

(place not

indicated).

The MRR claimed that Orlich signed a declaration exonerating

the MRR from all allegations concerning that organization's activities

and

smuggling.

97-4133-123 encl.p.1,2,4

(5,32)

contact with Manuel

Accordino to reported comments of

as of mid-January 1965,

Artime Buesa. . (CIA).

be

had not been in.

62-70441-270 p.2

(28926

At the request of the Department of State the Bureau con-

ducted an investigation of an attack on the Spanish vessel "Sierra

Aranzazu" (2-1877) on 9/13/64, off the eastern tip of Cuba. It was

alleged that this attack was carried out by representatives of a

group receiving US backing, known as the MRR and headed by Manuel

Artime.

The Secret Organization of Continental Action (OSAC) initially

claimed responsibility for the attack.

Newspaper accounts indicated

that Artime denied responsibility for

the raid and in a statement from

Panama suggested the Castro government was responsible in an attempt.

to discredit the MRR. On 10/5/64, Rolando Masferrer Rojas, 42-46

IP 3 oN this pg. AND /SY 3 RACKET

oN pa. 82 is UNeLASSIFESOnE

abp

beat's 171 378 agat

SECRET -

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 20

---

## Page 21

On 2/23/65, the New York Office advised that on 1/8/65 and

SECRET

1/26/65, NY 4533-S furnished information that the Soviet Intelligence

in the US wanted to obtain any information available on the

organizations: (1) Alfa 66; (2) Movimento Revolucionario Popular;

(3) Movimento Renosadoz Revolucionario; and (4) Representacion

cubana En El Exilio.

New York advised that the Movimiento Renosadoz

Revolucionario might be identical with the Movimiento recuperacior

Revalucionario (tif) headed by Manuel ATiao sue.

105,537725-2 enci.p. J

advised that on 3/6/65,

Pedro Jose Leal Flores (105-141019) and some of his friends went to

Miami to try to see the military commander of RECE*, whose name was

believed to be Oliva, and also to try

to see manuel. Artime, Leade

of the MRR. The reason for this trip was not known, but

sal

he believed that Leal wanted to associate the Porfirio Ramirez

in gado comando # with one of the danger anti-castro organtzatsond s4

This reference stated that Leal was leader of the anti-

Castro organization known as the Porfirio Ramirez Brigado Comando #l,

a group of young Cubans who had received Army training at Fort Jackson

(4)

*Representation of Cubans in Exile

couraged and frustrated with

the failures of exile leaders like

Manuel Artime Buesa, who had been ineffective and would have to

discontinue military operations in the near future. U

As of mid-March, 1965, Manuel Artime Buesa continued as

head of the MRR and traveled extensively in the US, Latin America,

and Europe. He was

criticized severely by other anti-Castro leaders,

(continued)

SECRET

-84-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

On 5/20/65, Nilo Messer, 27 N.W. 47th Street, Miami, advised

that he had been Manuel Artime Buesa's secretary and as such

traveled

thousands of miles with Artime in the US, South.

America and Europe.

He said that he was planning to leave this secretarial position and

had obtained another job.

On 7/23/65;

exile who traveled frequently in Central America, advised

previously both

However, the

from Cuban exiles in Nicaragua that the MRR reportedly had two

unidentified airplanes available to them in Panama.

However,

as no indication that the MRh planned any raid

against Cuba either

by using these planes

os an oferation do fee (C)

General Luis Somoza in Nicaragua tol

_that Artime's

operations there had been eliminated almost

because of

the US Government's attitude toward the MRR.

organization no longer had an

leader, Manuel Artime Buesa.

advised that

operational interest in the MRR or its

U 97-4133-143 p.ljencl.p.1,2

163206

SI

as par.

97-4133-139

(32%

SI as par. 1 and

2

108,644-4272 p. 1,6,7

On 7/23/65

reorganizing une mir

Ada. info.

and that Manul Artime Buesa was

97-4133-141

(69770704

SECRET

-88-

HH 50953

DooId: 32303569 Page 22

---

## Page 23

(S) SECRET

On 7/29/65, WF

Fernandez Planas* (105-96=0x

had vien

s advised that Concepcion Maria

had been married for a couple of months

to a Cuban exile named Alfredo Cepero, a lawyer who was believed to

be employed in Virginia.

During the first days of the Castro regime,

she had dated Jose Machado Ventura, who served as Castro's Minister

of Public Health in Cuba.

At one time (date not indicated) Fernandez

Cuba during April of 1961.

Tors awee that Artime handed

raveled to Washington, DO for be sole purpose of visiting ferhandez

at her residence (address not given). WE

S stated that Cepero

vas extremely jealous and he was almost certain that Fernandez hac

not revealed her past association with Machado and Artime to Cepero

105-98201-13 encl.p.2

(1450

*Cuban national employed

(see 105-98201-8).

at the Pan American Union, Washington, DC.

Documents furnished by OACSI-Army included a G-2 USARSOUTHCOM

report advising thatl

nascaled on 0/10/05,

been visited in his home, on both the precedina miday

and Saturday,

by Cuban revolutionary Manuel Artimes.

that Artimes was

a friend of General Somoza, Chief Director of the Nicaraguan National

Guard, and of source's sister-in-law, Mrs. Yolanda de Corrales; also,

that Artimes knew source's brother-in-law, It. Gumberto Corrales,

Assistant to General Somoza.

President Robles, asked source to confidentially inform the President

that a conspiracy was being planned for the purpose of assassinating

the Presidents of Nicaragua, Costa Rica and the RP: Files of the

470th INTC Group, Fort Amador, Canal Zone, revealed background data

on Manuel F. Artimes Buesa, born 1/29/32,

Camaguey Province, Cuba.

His father was shown as Manuel Artimes F. and his mother as

• Otilla

B. de Artimes. It was suspected that Artimes wanted to meet President

Robles to obtain from him a letter of introduction, for unknown

reasons, to Jack Vaughan, former US Ambassador to RP and present US

Assistant Secretary of State.

(continued)

ARMY INFO (LASTI) UNCLASSIFIED

PER LTR. DD. 12/4/86

SPERJA/GIC - 10/30/90 - 9211,326

SE+ 190-16449-288

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 23

---

## Page 24

(continued)

operating from Paul's Barber Shop, Palms Plaza, 16772

south Dixie Highway, Perrine, Florida.

This involved

oarpers Lestegas and

Pablo Emilio Moncada Luna, sub-

ject of Bureau file # 105-136705, who were alleged to

have mentioned

tentative plans to assassinate Artime,

Eloy

Gutierrez Menoyo and. Pedro Diaz Lanz. (See

105-136704-1).

SECRET

advised on 9/23/65 that

general opinion on the cuban exiles strongly indicated that both

Manuel Ray of JURE and Manuel Artime, MRR leader, no longer were

regarded as important figures in the

anti-Castro

movement L

105-114543-261 p.10

was interviewed

on 11/12/65, at Opa-locka Processing Center, Opa-lockä, Florida.

indicated that she came to Miami from New York in about mid

1962. It was in Miami that she met her second husband, Ernesto

Martinez Dominguez, where they both were active in the anti-Castro

group of Manuel Artime Buesa who was a personal friend of hers.

the meetings of this group, she gave first aid classes for a period

of two weeks in 1963.

• In October: 1965, Montano and her husband made

a trip to Cuba in an effort to bring relatives out of Cuba. While

there,

she was approached by the Cuban Government to engage in

intelligence activities in the US on behalf of Cubans.

Included with

Information she was expected to report was any information concerning

Artime and his activities.

In Cuba, she was introduced to a man named

"Orlando" whom she recognized as a man who was in Miami during 1962

and 1963, working with Artime's group.

She and her husband departed

Cuba for Miami on 11/8/65.

said her husband had told her the

cause me me he had had too Artime eve he was a cA agentl

-92-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569

Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

3/18/66,

dated 6/15/66. furnished a letten dated

to Manuel Artime, Director of the Cuban

evotattonary Front in exile

Artime to get in contact with the

theodort too tos Angelese

Calif. 3 sisters, Nora, Oneyda and Marina Amaya Cabrera, and to

order the American Consul in San Pedro Sula to cancel the visa of

another sister, Lila Amaya Cabrera V de Lopez, who planned to trans-

fer her residency. to Los Angeles.

said these sisters were

first cousins of the dancerous international communist,

who was located in Havana, Cuba.(

(Copy of letter and of translation

from Spanish attached)

105-129943-3

(14,511)

concus 15/911

She learned from the wife.

of Carlos Teperino

that he had been put in charge. by Manuel Artime of

the contact and interview with Rolando Cubelas* in Paris.

This woman

stated that she saw Felipe Ilaudy in company with Pepin Naranjo

(reputed to be a great Fidelista) together with Cubelas in Paris (sic).

No further details).

This reference

identified Felipe Llaudy as an official of

the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations and a known intelligence

agent

158-72-210-5421 enclop.2

*In early March 1966, Rolando Cubela Secades was on trial in Cuba,

charged with plotting to assassinate Fidel Castro.

(See 109-12-210-5407),

On 6/22/66,

Felipe Rivero Diaz, head of the Cuban Nationalist

Association, charged

that if the US Government had its way, it would

install propagandists Conte Aguero and Dr. Manuel Artime as the next

rulers of Cuba. (Source not clear).

109-

584-4409 p.11

-98-

NH 50953 DocId: 32303569 Page 25

---

## Page 26

DESTROY

I

DESTROY,

I

DESTROY

DESTROY

SI

DESTROY

I

DESTROY

I 109-652-4

I 134-14424-1 p.3

109-584-4075

-4114

p.3

- 4179 p.4

-4272 p.6 26763133-143 pinz

-4290 p. 8

COMPENTIL

18

ITHT

70953 DooTd: 32303569

Page 26

---

## Page 27

DESTROY

DESTROY

DESHOT

I

DES AUT

11 109-636-3

gestior: I 109-652-4

DESTROY

iDI 113-7-210-314

DESTROY

-429

ussor I 134-14424-1 p.3

CORDENTAL

104-584-A MiAmi NEWS

CONF

DEM

8/1/63

-A. MiAMi HERALD : 9/8/63

• NEWS TAPER OR DATE GIVEN 5/22/44

DATE AN SAND: 5/28/1

1/20/6"

65

1TT 50953

DoeId: 32303569

Page 27

---

