# 124-90146-10108

## Page 1

124-90146-10108|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90146-10108

HQ

105-93072-128 THRU 131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 06/28/1965

'PAGES:

21

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 4 MEMO, LHM

v9.1

IT 50953

DocId: 32339276

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*-%

4-22 (FEv. 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Bran

• , 19-

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention Musca

Return to Mullene

Supervisor

303KB

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main

References Only •

Type of Search Requested:

I Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

→ Variations

Subject

Diana Bornstein

Birthdate & Place -

Address

Localities

Prod. -

Mart

Not

Locäled

Searcher

- Date _

1/0 l Initials _

FILE NUMBER

SERIAL

105-93072-131

Diana Hermans

Tsu

ST

Mermans,

Dioria

105-1-317-258

Hemlina

hilane

62-26225-35 1 My. Kuld tele 122054

Bernatin, Robert Mine

HTH 50953 DoCTA: 32339276

Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-22 (R'év: 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Bran

.., 19

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File, Review

Attention -

Return to

Mullens 303k.B.

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

I Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

eMain

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose) "

Buildup

_Variations

Bernstein

Subject

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

R#_

Prod.

_ Date

il-26

FILE NUMBER

28-714-

NkMt

10593022-131

Searcher

Initials

1353

1

IT 50953

DooId: 32339276

Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-22 (Plev. 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Brai

, 19.

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Eorward to File Review

4 Attention -

acca

2 Return to

Mullens 303RB

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive Reterences Only

Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of -

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

Variations

Subject

Daniel Watts

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

Prod.

MIF

Date _

11-26

FILE NUMBER

105-96316

Searcher

Initials

HH 50953

DoCT: 32339276

Page 4

---

## Page 5

, 1 - Mr. Mullins

SAC, New York (105-42387)

11-15-65

Directer:

FBI

(105-93072) - 130

107}

RICHARD THOMAS, GIBSON

IS - CUBA

SECRET

ALL IRFORINTION COUTAURA

NEREIN

IS UNCLASCERE DICEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

Reur Tet: 10-29-65. L

Prior to instituting action concerning subject's

removal from Security Index, Bureau desires a report or

memorandum be prepared for dissemination purposes to include

any unreported subversive activities on subject's part.

Submit promptly and you will be advised further concerning

subject's Security Index status.

RAM: bjs (4)

NOTE:

Subject was head of Fair Play for Cuba Committee

at one time and is now living in London where he is connected

with some communist publications.

In 1962 subject offered to

serve as informant for Bureau solely for financial reasons but

we declined and told CIA of his offer.

In September

1965,

CIA advised It is now directing Gibson's activities.

Prior tofj

removing him from Index, it is felt a current report

or

memorandum should be submitted to interested agencies.

MAILED 2

NOV 1 * 1965

COMM-FBI

12/30194

Classified by Sp& WAC SAT

Declassify on

OADE

(FK)

Cisced by

Gramp: trem CDS, Cate

Dain o' Declassification is

X31070

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr --

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

+ Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

FI4

Tavend

TabR.:3 NOV 22 1965

• Holmes -

Candy

MAIL ROOM LV

SECRET

TELETYPE UNIT

HH 50953 DOrT: 32339276

Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OrIONAL FORM NO. 1

MAY 1882

EDITION

G5A FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GP *ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

I SAC; NEW YORK (105-42387)

RICHARD THOMAS

GIBSON

IS - CUBA

DATE: 10/29/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

SECRET

ReBulet, 10/22/65. U

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON 1s a SI subject of the

NYO.

ReBulet Indicates that CIA has advised in confidence

that It is operating GIBSON and has assigned the code

name SUGAR to

GIBSON.

Although GIBSON's previous activities would

warrant retention on the st, it is felt that inasmuch

as GIBSON has been debriefed by CIA and is presently

being operated by CIA, GIBSON no longer warrants inclusion

on the SI, and accordingly it is being recommended that

the

SI.

name of RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON be deleted from the

S

APPROPRIS

A SEENCIES

NY

AND THEED

IGES

ADVISITY

SAC,

11-15-65

DATE

REG- 76

epir

desalion

EX-101

105=93612-130

Bureau

• (RM)

I-New York

8 NOV 1 1965

159

JEH: mm

(3)

Chanativen by

Exempt from

regarY 210

12130194

classified by So& MAC SAV

periassity

ong

DADR

(GAR

311046

??"?

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

HH 50953 DOrT: 32339276

Page 6

---

## Page 7

491.427

F

tive supervisor

Multins

SAC, New York (105-42387)

10-22:65

Director, FBI (105-93072)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

PERSONAL ATTENTION

ALL FORMATION CONTADIES

TOP SECRET MENEIM IS UNCLASGIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWS OTHERGIER

According to Bureau Source 6, on 9-21-65

Richard Gibson in London contacted Robert Williams

Cuba and indicated he had received an unidentified message

from Williams.

Gibson assured Williams of his personal

loyalty and solidarity in "the struggle."

Gibson also said

e was parcially responsible for Willians" situati

as ready to make any effort which would help a

As you are aware, Central Intelligence Ageney

(CIA) has advised in confidence that it is operating

Gibson and the message, would indicate that CIA is attempting

to have Gibson re establish contact with Williams.

Note

that CIA has assigned the code name SUGAR to Gibson and

data

originating with him will be attributed to that code

name

CIA's operational interest

in Gibson must

be

maintained in strictest contidence."Lureau Source

Is for lead purposes only and must not be included

Diata (S)

comnunications prepared for dissemination.

1 - London (100-2611)4| information nes

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

Williams)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN/001381128

OCT 221965

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

IDe Loach

COSCLASSIFIE

Call

ConTENDED

METE OF

O ECLASSIF

olmes

who fled to Cuba to

Gibson

was formerly head of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee but has?

at which time he offered to serve as informant purely for

to the U.s

asons without showing, any, allegiance whatsoever

May, 1965

iWe advised CIA of his offer to, cooperate and 1n

did

now

make

resides

AN

XTENSION

- 15R 3A1 OR STORET

50

PIET

105:930729/29

FOR

• MAIL HOOM

fELETYPE UNIT

& eclassity ons

HH

70953

DooId: 32339276

Page

---

## Page 8

F.

id, OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

MAY 1062 EDITION

SESA GEN: LEG. NO. 27

UÑITED, STATES GOT IRNMENT

Memorandum

TO

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

it, 1nd!

- DIRECTOR, FBI, (105-93072)

DATE: JUN 2 8 1965

SECRET

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387) (0)

APPROPRTATE AGENCIES

SUBJECT:

RU

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

ADZ17.23

STIP(S) 0

DANE

USING

ReLegat, Londonlet, 4/26/65. 1

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 10

copies of a LHM dated and captioned as above..

It

is requested that one of the copies be furnished by

the Bureau to Legat, London as requested in re

Legat, London letter. u

(SLis crAs contained in relet 14/26/65.

NY I-1 referred to in the memorandum

NY I-2 is NY 4964-S*.

NY T-31

RICHARD GIBSON.

NY 3164-S who is used to characterize

MrS. JAY SAPIENZA,

Superintendent at 45 Carmine,

Street,

NY, NY, was contacted by SA JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY

on 6/3/65.

Cases: Dy

The records of BSS

and BCI, NYCPD, were

Gerip. from GD

reviewed by sa AUGUST J. MICI

on 5/31/65.

On'no! Declassit

The records of

Credit Bureau of Greater

NY were reviewed by IC

AMM. DECLE DA 5/19/050

- Bureau (Bnc18. 10) (RM) REC-62/05-93072-128

JEH:cta

/Copy, to.

LondoN

by routing slip for

(3)

X info

action

12 3074

Classified

by SAMOSAT

date. 4 30/Gs

Declassily

One witnes

DADR

(JFK

Copy; to:

CA/STATE BAO MY LA

16

JUN-gO 1965

ONI/OSI/ACSI

Ry routing slip for info.

Date, (6/

30/l5

or it lie

O JUL

221965

Buy V.S.

Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plà

fication

HELPIN

SÉCRET

HTH 50953 DoCTA: 32339276

Page 8

---

## Page 9

NY 105-42387

SECRET,

By letter dated 4/30/65, Legat, Mexico, advised that

the Mexico City Station of CIA,

by memorandum

2/18/65, captioned "American Communists' Contacts in

Mexico City" which was classified "Secret" with instructions

that the information not be disseminated outside the

Bureau, furnished information indicating that a leading

member of the National Liberation Movement, a pro-Cuba,

anti-US Communist front,

stated. that LEO HUBERMAN and

FRANCES KELLY,

both of whom are editors of

memorandum,

HUBERMAN and KELLY were interested in discussing

the possibility of publishing English translations of the

writings of DAVID ALFARO SIQUEIROS, a well known Mexican

artist and a member of the Central

Committee of the Mexican

The memorandum also indicated that KELLY arrived

1n

Mexico on 2/14/65, and both she and HUBERMAN were

In contact with American Communists in Mexieo. S

The enclosed LHM 1s being classified

"Secret"

as it contains information furnished by CIA which was

classified

"Secret"

(5)

SECRET

/ NH 50953 DocId: 32339276 Page 9

---

## Page 10

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Bureau, :

New York

TED STATES DEPARTMENT O

jUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New YOTK

New York

June 20,190

SECRET

105- 93072

105 42387

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

do fors 19304985)

Richard Thomas Gibson

Internal Security - Cuba

On April 20, 1965, NY I-I, another government

agency which conducts intelligence investigations, furnished

information indicating, that on April 2, 1905, an employee

of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England,

had furnished

Richard Gibson the telephone number of a girl who was

Ngoing to stay in the United Kingdom and who wanted to

see Gibson.

NY T-I noted that the girl is evidently

Frances

Frances- Kelley of the "Monthly Review"' of New York.

not Monthat

NY I-l advised that Kelley had a letter of introduction

to the above-mentioned employee of the Cuban Embassy,

London,

England, from Leo Huberman with whom she had

worked in New York

Facial Secunit,

+1 043-51-2909

A characterization of "Monthly

Mell

Review" is contained in the appendix

hereto.

4

On March 1, 1965, NY I-2, who has furnished

reliable information

furnished information

indicating that frances Kelly, who is originally fron

si !

SECRET

Carrot from CDS, C

Co'no! Declassifica

GROUP

Excluded

rom.

automatic

13090

downgrading and

SpSmACGAT

declassification

Declassify on:

DADSt This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

185-93872-128

LILLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId: 32339276

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Righard Thomas Gibson

England and who recently returned to England, was employed

by the publication "Monthly Review" In New York for several

years. NY I-2 advised that while residing in New York,

she resided at 45 Carmine Street, Apartment 25, New York,

New York.

NY I-2 advised that Frances Kelly is the sister

on Pant 12 cantee tove to don Southuesty Dumber

is 043-51-2909.:

NY I-2 further advised that in June, 1964,

Frances Kelly directed correspondence on behalf of

"Monthly Review"

WOrk

lore no arcing an unfat ave index for tho

to the Ghana Mission to the United

regarding a cumulative index for the party book

shop in Accra,

Mission to the United Nations. (U)

which had been requested by the Ghana

The March, 1964 issue of "Monthly Review" on

page 623, contains a book review by Frances Kelly in

which she is identified as an assistant to the editors

of "Monthly Review" .

On June 3, 1965, Mrs. Jay Sapienza, Superintendent,

15 Carmine Street

New York, New York, advised that Frances

Street, for approximately

two years until January, 1965, at which time she indicated

that she was going to make a trip to Mexico and then return

to England. Mrs. Sapienza stated that she believed that

Frances Kelly originally came to the United States from

England as she had an English accent. Mrs. Sapienza

that Kelly is in her early 30's and was a journalist

who worked for a magazine in New York, New York.

Mrs.

Sapienza stated that during her residence at 45 Carmine

Street, Frances Kelly was

an excellent tenant.

SECRET

2

ATHT

50953 DocId: 32339276 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

The records of the Bureau of Special Services

and the Bureau of criminal Identification, New fork

city Police Department, were searched on May 31, 1965,

and no record identifiable with frances Kelly could be

Located. l

The files of the Credit Bureau of Greater New

York were reviewed on May 19,

1965, and no record identi-

fiable with Frances Kelly could be

located.

Concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, NY T-3,

has furnished reliable information in the past, has

who

advised that Gibson was the former Acting Executive

Secretary of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. In

Sent i Algeria where he tet the

United States and

where he remained until April, 1903.

The March 19, 1963 issue of "Monthly Review identifies

Gibson as

the English Language Editor of "Revolution

Africalne"

, a new weekly created by the Political Bureau

of the Algerian Government. U

A characterization of the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee is contained in

the appendix hereto."

SECRET

3

NY 50953 DoCId: 32339276 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York

Times" newspaper contained

a full-page advertisement

captioned "What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by

the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertise-

ment announced the formation of the FPCC In New York City

and declared the FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth

about revolutionary Cuba" so neutralize the distorted

American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11,

1961,' reported that at a hearing conducted before the

United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on

January 10, 1961, DE. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified

himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the EPCC. He

also testified he and TABER obtained funds from the Cuban

Government which were applied toward the cost of the efore-

mentioned advertisement. U

On May 16, 1953s a source advised that during

the first two years

25, 07 the

of the FPCC's existence there was a

struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC

and thereby influence FPCC policy. This source added that

during the past year there had been a successful effort by

FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and other

organizations in the FPCO so that their influence as of

May, 1903, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450. U

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that

VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was

then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no

intention of permitting FPCS policy to be determined by

any other organization.

This source stated that LEE

belleved that the FPiC should advocate resumption of

diplonatic relations between Cuba and the United

States

and should support the right of Cucans to manage their

revolution without Interference from other nations.

LEE

dia no's advocate supporiing the cuban revolution per se. y

SECRET.

NH 50953 DocId: 32339276

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Ransed

004

SECRET

2.

APFENDTX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUISA COMMITTRE

The Novemher 23, 1963, edition of "The New Yor

Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of Connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the CASIRO networks in the United States."

It is to be noted

that Senator DODD was a member of the Senate internal Security

subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on the FPoC.

The December 27, 1953, edition of "The New Voik

World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-

CASIRO FFCC was seeking to go out of business and that

its prime activity during its jifetime had been aponsor-

ship or pro-CASIRo strees rallied and nass picket lines,

and the direction of an active propagande im highlighting

Illegal travel-to-Cuba cenpaigna.

Ite comparatively brief

span of life was attributed to mounting anti-CASTRO American

sublic opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which dis-

closed FPCC financing by CASIRO's United Nations Delegation,

and ultimately, the bad publicity which the FPCC received

from disciosure of activities on its behalf by suspected

presidential assassin, LE H. OSWALD. U

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned

second source adrised

that v.

T. LEE had recently remarked

that the EPCC was dead and that there were no plans to

organize another similar organization. U

On April 13, 1964, a third source advised that

there had not been any FICC activity in many months aud

that

the FPCO had been dissolved.

SECRET

IT 50953

DonTd: 32339276

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Richard

thongs

64 0802

SECREL

MONTHLY REVIEW

A source advised on March 24, 1953, that Monthly

Review, Inc., was incorporated in the State of New York

on October 19, 1951, and the corporation papers reflected

it succeeded the individual business of LEO HUBERMAN at

66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, which operated

since 1949 under the title, Monthly Review Press. U

The publication is "An Independent Socialist

Magazine" with editorial and business offices at 333 Sixth

Avenue, New York 14; New York, and mailing address at 66

Street, New York, New York, according to the March,.

1961, issue of "Monthly

Review."

Its editors are listed

aS LEO HUBERMAN and PAUL M. SWEEZY.

LOUIS F. BUDENZ, former editor of the "Daily

worker," an East Coast Communist newspaper which suspended

publication on January 13, 1958, advised on June 23, 1950,

that LEO HUPERMAN was a member of the CP in 1945.1

Another source advised on November 2, 1954, that

PAUL M. SWEEZY was known as a Marxist, but not as a Communist

Party

The same source stated that the CP hard

core had been critical of SWEEZY because of his independent

application of Marxist theory. According to the source,

SWEEZY was used to advantage in many Ce front activities

In the 1930's.\

been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive order 10t50.

This:

SECRET

HH 50953

DooId: 32339276 Page 15

---

## Page 16

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Bureau

105-93072

New York

105-42387

TED STATES DEPARTMENT Ó

JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New TorE

New York

June

, 1965

SECRET

ALE IFORVATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Richard Thomas Gibson

Internal Security - Cuba

on April 20, 1905, NY I-I, another Government

agency which conducts

intelligence investigations, furnishe

information indicating that on April 2, 1965, an employee

of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England, had furnished

Richard Gibson the telephone number of a girl who was

going to stay in the United Kingdom and who wanted to

see Gibson.

NY I-1 noted that the girl is evidently

Frances Kelley of the "Monthly Review"

of New York.

NY I-1 advised that Kelley had a letter of introduction

to thể

above-mentioned employee of the Cuban Embassy,

London, England, from

Leo Huberman with whom she had

worked

In New

York (C

A characterization of "Monthly

Review" is contained in the appendix

hereto. "

,.i-i

On March 1, 1965, NY I-2, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, furnished information

indicating that Frances Kelly, who 1s originally from

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluden

123094

from automatic

classities by So& mAC GAT

downgrading and

Declassify ona

OADR

UFK

declagsification

This

document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NH 50953 DocId: 32339276 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECREL

Richard Thomas Gibson

England and who recently returned to England, was employed

by the publication "Monthly Review" in New York for several

years.

NY I-2 advised that while residing in New York,

she resided at 45 Carmine Street, Apartment 25, New York,

New York.

NY T-2 advised that Frances Kelly is the sister

• Southwest 10,

En Pant 1LY' I-2 davised that her Social Security number

1s

NY I-2 further advised that in June.

1964,

Frances Kelly directed correspondence on behalf of

"Monthly Review" to the Ghana Mission to the United

Nations

Indicating that she had done some research

work regarding a cumulative index for the party book

shop in Accra, which had been requested by the Ghana

Mission to the United Nations: yu

The March, 1964 issue of "Monthly Review" on

page 623, contains a book review by Frances Kelly in

which she is identified as an assistant to the editors

of "Monthly Review". \

On June 3, 1965, Mrs. Jay Sapienza,

Superintendent,

advised that Frances

two years until January, 1905, at which time she indicatea

that she was going to make a trip to Mexico and then return.

to England. Mrs. Sapienza stated that she believed that

Frances Kelly originally came to the United States from

England as she had an English accent.

Mrs. Sapienza

stated that Kelly is in her early 30's

and was a journalist

who worked for a magazine in New York, New York.

Sapienza stated that during her residence at 45 Carmine

Street, Frances Kelly was an excellent tenant.

SECRET

2

NH 50953 DocId: 32339276 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

The records of the Bureau of Special Services

ana the Bureau of criminal Identification, New Yor

city Police Department, were searched on May 31, 1965.

and no record identitiable with Frances Kolly could be

located.

The files of the Credit Bureau of Greater New ..

York were reviewed on May 19, 1965 10cated.

and no record identi-

fiable with Frances Kelly could be

Concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, NY I-3, who

has furnished reliable information in the past, has

advised that Gibson was the former Acting Executive

Secretary of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. In

September, 1902, Gibson left the United States and

went to Algeria

where he remained until April, 1903.

The March 19, 1963 issue of "Monthly Review"

identifies

Gibson as

the English Language Editor of "Revolution

Africalne"

, a new weekly created by the Dolitical Bureau

of the Algerian Government.

A characterization of the Fair Play

for Cuba Committee is contained in

the appendix hereto.

SECRET

"gir

3

NH 50953

DocId: 32339276 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTES

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York

Times" newspaper contained a full-page advertisement

captioned "what Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by

the Fair. Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC) .

This advertise

ment announced the formation of the FPCC in New York CIty

and declared the FPCC intended to promulgate

"the truth

about revolutionary Cuba" to neutralize the distorted

American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11,

1951, reported that at a hearing conducted before the

United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on

January 10, 1961, Dr. CHARTES A. SANTOS-BUCH IdentIfIed

himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the FPCC. He

also testified he aná TABER obtained funds from the Cuban

Government which were applied toward the cost of the afore-

mentioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1953s a source advised that during

the first two years of the FPCCis existence there was a

struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC

and thereby influence FPCC policy.

This source added that

during the past year there had been a successful effort by

FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and other …

organizations in the FPCC so that their influence as of

May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that

VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was then

formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no

intention of permitting FPOC policy to be determined by

any other organization.

This source stated that LEE

belleved that the FPCC should advocate resumption of

diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States

and should support the right of curans to manage their

revolution without Interference from other nations.

did not advocate supporting the Cuban revolution per se.

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32339276

Page 19

---

## Page 20

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

2.

APFENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTER

The Novenher 23, 1963, edition of "The New York

Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of connecticut

had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of

the CASIRO network in the United States."

It is to be noted

that Senator DODD was a member of the Senate Internal Securisy

Subcommittee which twice conducted heurings on the FFCC.

The December 27, 1953, edition of "the New Yorl:

World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-

CASTRO FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that

Its prine activity during its lifetime had been sponsor-

ship of pro-CAsTRo strees rallies and nass picket tines.

and the direction of an active propaganda miid highlighting

Illegal travel-to-Cuba campaigns.

Its comparatively brief

span of life was attributed to mounting anti-CASTRO American

public opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which dio-

closed FECC financing by CAStRO: United Nations Delegation,

and ultimately. the bad publicity which the FPCC received

fron disciosure of activities on its behalf by suspected

presidential assassin, LEE H. OSWALD.

On February 6, 1064, the previously menüloned

second source advised

that V.

T. LEE had recently remarked

that the PPC was dead and that, there were no plans to

organize another similar organization.

On April 13, 1904s a thira source adulted that

there had not been any FIC activity in many months aud

that the FPCC had been diassived.

SECRET

IT 50953

DonTd: 32339276

Page

20

---

## Page 21

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

MONTHLY REVIEW

A source advised on March 24, 1953,

that Monthly

Review, Inc., was incorporated in the state of New York

on October 19, 1951, and the corporation papers reflected

it succeeded the individual business of LEO HUBERMAN at

66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, which operated

since 1949 under the title, Monthly Review Press.

The publication is "An Independent Socialist

Magazine" with editorial and business offices at 333 Sixth

Avenue, New York 14, New York, and mailing address at 66

Barrow

Street,

New York, New York, according to the March,

Its editors are listed

LOUIS F. BUDENZ, former editor of the "Daily

worker," an East Coast Communist newspaper which suspended

publication on January 13, 1958, advised on June 23, 1950,

that LEO HUBERMAN was a member of the CP in 1945.

inother source advised on November 2, 1954, that

PAUL M. SWEEZY was known as a Marxist, but not as a Communist

Party (CP) member.

The same source stated that the CP hard

core had been critical of SWEEZY because of his independent

application of Marxist theory.

According to the source,.

SWEEZY was used to advantage in many CP front activitles

in the 1930's.

The CP has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

6

SECRET

7H 60953 DooTd: 32339276

Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

1A1aon

At krupinsty

Mr ®

Anderson

(HX) 205-140170

Datet

July 23, 1068

T01

Director

Central Inteliisance Agoney

attention:

Deputy Directer, Plant

From!

John Edzar Hoover, Director

Subjects

UNION CUECIO!

Soventeen Anorican Terroot

Tralning In Mansins, Chion

INIXENAE SECURITY * CHINA

BY LIAISOR, COMPANED

ENTED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWS 0382RWISE:

Classed by

Exampt tramco.

cries: Dealiss ir

Information has boon recoivod from a confidontial

pource abroad that according to & South Alrican who ma

trained in guerrilla variaro at the Mansing Military Scbool

In Chins in 1903, there sore soventeen Anorican ne, toes alco

training nt this school.

the source furthor statod that this

ma not the fiest

proup el Anerican negroes to recalve such

training there

No additionnt information hns boon doveloped corrolo

rating the above allogation.

However, a revlow of ou L1lo0

Indicates that a sourco of your Agancy, who utilizes the

cryptonyn "Sugar," evidently tas o wide acquaintanceabid in

Afrien nationalist novonents and Cherofore my bo in a p0s1t100

to furnish information concerning this matter.

It do thoro

koro requented that "Suga be contacted

nay information

no may be able to lurish in this rogard

2.5000

€ - 105-93072 (Richard Thomas Gibson)

classified by panACIGAT

IZA: ant slcr (7)

Declassify oug

DAOR CAK

NOTE:

Original Information in this matter was furnishod by MI-6.

It so possible the notroos referred to tre from south or

Amorice, I1, In fact, thoy are Inoricans.

Logical investigation

to

date has fallod to develop any additional corzoborating data. Sugar

referred

to above is Richard Thonas Gibson, formorly involved with

the Fals Play for Cuba Committee, and well- know to the Bureau.

1s presently on the Security Index.

CIA has recently Initiatod

contact with him in turope and plans to operate him as a sOurce.

His Initial debriefing by CIA indicates ho should be contacted

concerning captioned matter.

This letter classified

" "Secret" sInce

1t repenta deta from NI-G nomorandun so elmssiflod.

SECRET

25430772

RUE SAUCK K511985

GROUP

ECORDED

Exclude

@ from automatio

46 JUL 27 1965

lowneradine and

¡eclassification

ATHT

70953 DooTd: 32339276

Page

---

