# 124-10219-10166

## Page 1

124-10219-10166]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10219-10166

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-114543-114

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CRAWFORD, MATTHEW D. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/29/1964

PAGES:

200

SUBJECTS:

JURE, ASSOC, ACA, IMPORT, VESSELS, TRAINING, CUBANS,

BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC LHM, MEMO

y9.1

NH 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 /Rev.

5-1-59)

SECRET.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

(.)

REPORTING OFFICE

FFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

[MEXICO, D. F

BUREAU

APR 29 1964

3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

Jhk

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

CHARACTER OF CASE

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

11-22-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 500 KASe.

CUBA

(П-к)

CUBA"

1-24-94

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Classified by MULTIPLE SOLES

JFMJ

STACCI

Declassify on: OAD

85

TION CONTA

SSTFIED.

SYNOPSIS:

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO iS head of JURE in :

Costa Rica but no definite information

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

re JURE activities there FRANCISCO U

AND FIEND OFFICES

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in San

, Salvador,

ADVISED BY BAUTING

but apparently is inactive. Background

SLIP (S) 0.

ALL INFOR

HEREIN

EXCEPT WH

DATE

OTHERW

- RUC -

places com

97-4133 (mer)

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64 (fU)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Do NoT orrent

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United tates Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised

that the infor

nation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State. (6)

NAPPROVED

CORIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

10571145431

1114

BU FILE 105-114543

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 70

SIMC FILE

105-3776/(DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

ROSEE COVER

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMARIONY

5

1964

IN THIS DOCUMENT./

DUS

EXCEPT FOR thE bRACkETE

IM 6-25:49

Pe Diesemination

Agency CA

Request Recd?

5/20/50

Date Fwd. l

How Fwd. ID

RESEBACE AN ART

By

3 TOOAALCDRNAL

HH 50953 Doold 32297390

Page 2

REVIEWED BY ER

SEC:

* TASK FORCE

8-30570N9815010

(STR

0 RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SIDE!

OR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

SECRET

REC- 33

---

## Page 3

[mс]105-3776](C)

SECRET

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps. (e)

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage.

He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(c)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in

• Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3, 1964.

3)

COVER PAGE

C

SECRETI

HW

30953

DocId: 32297390

Page 3

---

## Page 4

C

(мс 105-3776 )(c1)

SECRET •

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as a brother-

In-Law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then

in Costa Rica: (520(10

stated that it is his understanding

tbat representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAy,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (SA)(g)

On March 6. 1964

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor-

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed

to be identical with FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed

Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to lima, Peru. (SC

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE f. KNAPP. @ )(V)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received. (X2)

COVER PAGE

D

SECREN

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNIT

D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

STICE

• WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CONFIDENTIAL

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

CLASSIFIED BY 5768 20/Rue RevolutIonary Junta - JUAt)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_(G)

JFK

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIÉD

EXCEPT WHERE SAIGAN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBl: It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and'its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

10-24-94

Classified by SPUBJAGCL

Declassity on OADR 185

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

ASSistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, ' San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as

the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA.

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica:

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (e)

costa Rica, advised on March 2; 1964,

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

state, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY I/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/20/91 ngo/dos

CONFIDENTIAL

Group

7 RELEASE IN FULL

Excluded from Automatte

I RELEASE IN PART :

Downgrading and Deelas

Iw 569b5L D6altt 32297390 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costarica, cubA

OLson recalled that both MANOLOgisand MANUeL

ARTINE, Cuban eX. Naders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX EXQYUELA, Chief of National InvestigationS,.

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (e)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO, GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San

Salvador, El-Salvador,.

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador.

GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (e)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El-Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one

FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid.

"MITCHELL stated that this

individual Is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information

available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on. Apr11 25, 1934.

T-1

furnished the following information on March 31,

1964•

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No., 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LAÑIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER iS a

citizen of Cuba who was born In Havana,

Cuba,

on April

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725.

(u)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished

names

of Professor LUIS G.XIOPETE, Presidente Carranza

- 2 -

M

exico

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 6

И)

---

## Page 7

2:263- Rev. 3-1959)

[SECRET!

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

()(U)

REPORTING MEXICO, D.

ORIGIN

F.

PACE BUREAU

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 29 1964

3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

MATTHEW

D. CRAWFORD, JR.

(Cuban

Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

TYPED BY

jhk

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

11-22-97

CLASSIFIED BY 51668 S1D/KI

DECLASSIFY ON: 20%

SYNOPS IS &

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO iS head of JURE IT

Costa Rica but no definite informatior

re JURE activities there. (FRANCISCO U

BORDEN HARTMAN resides In

San Salvador

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

but apparently is inactive.

Background

information set

out re JURE delegate

SA 8 MACKSR

in Mexico jU

108244-94

- RUC -

Classified by

BIES ECES

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64.(V)

1 Declassify on: CADR

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information

received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica,

on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

IN CHARGE

005

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

REVIEWED BY REJFK TASK FORCE

BU FILE 105-114543ON S/20 AT ANdR

[MC]

105-3776

D

RELEASE IN FOLL

SEE COVER PAGE B

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

REVIEWED BY

Army

CIA HAS INO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDVOR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONT

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM

625-97

ExCEpT FOR thE BRACKETS

SLD/KSR

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

'How Fid:

B ÿ

i I8sn dol

17 RELEASE IN FULL

SIDE REVERSE

SIDEFOR

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRETI

HW 50953 DooId:32297390 Page 7

105-114543-114

---

## Page 8

SECRED

MC 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between

the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E• KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in san dose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and 1s

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

in Charge, Security Agency,

on Muret agency, San dose, stated the ante-CASTRO

Cubans in

Costa Rica receiving training in Infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was al

anti-CASTRO movement headed by

MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (c)

On March 3. 1964.

(c)

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRETI

MC 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO 1s the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as

a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH.

He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (SOC

stated that it is his understanding

that

representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE

FIGUERES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica.

He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (51)CX

On March 6, 1964,

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE •

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE Is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (5M)K

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP. COLO

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 9

---

## Page 10

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TICE

CONFIDEN LAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

_APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

This document contains neither

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

recommendations

nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its 'contents are not to be

11-22-91

distributed outside your agency.

Classified by SP6B JA/CL

Declassify on: OAR // 85

CLASSIFIED BY 56668 SUD ISK

DECLASSIFY ON: 20X

JFKL

On March

21 1904, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose.

Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica:

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans. opposed to the present regime in cuba. The

Department of state approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY

SI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON S

/20/97 myn/ de

ZU TELEASE IN FULL

O RELEASE IN PART

CONFIDENTIAL

Group 1

Exoluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

• TOTAL DENIAL

50959 DooId: 32297390

Page

10

---

## Page 11

= 1,9

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIVE, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica®

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

° FRANCISCO BORDEN 1.

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

• WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244 •

MITCHELL stated the only back

ground information

available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964.

(4)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F

Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. (4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

names

of ProfesSOr LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, YOU)

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

H7 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 11

---

## Page 12

52:263-620V- 5-1,591

ISECRETI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING DEFICE

MEXICO, D. F!

W

CE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

TYPED BY

jhk

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

11-22-4/

RA - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUDISR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/6

SYNOPSIS!

ATT. INFORMATION CONTAINED

¡ BREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

....CEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO iS head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definité information

re JURE activities there. FRANCISCO U

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in San Salvador,

but apparently is inactive.

Background

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico. eu)

J.F1)

spamAc/Isse

0124-94

MULTIPLE SOURCES

- RUC -

BEFERENCES: Moxico Caly lotter 2/28/64.G/1U)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

wassilled by

Declassity on: OADRI7/85

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

IN CHARGE OLS

REVIEWED BY T2I/JFK

BU

TE: 105-1145431 5/20/97 nyu/lad

MC] FILE

105-3776

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

SEE COVER PAGE

B

L

TOTAL DENIAL

REVIEWER BY, PEAS, ASK OBSE

Agency : ON

78/92

Request Recd.

Date 'Fwd.'"

RELEASE IN FULL

How Fwd.

RELEASE IN PART

By

TOTAL DENIAL

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

ASK FORCE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION,

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 6-25-97

Except FoR thE BRÄCKETS

Notations

sea /35097

SEE MOVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSUALCATION

ACTION

(SECRET

NN 50953 DooId: 32297390 Page 12

105-114543-114

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information

there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and

not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage.

He estimated there were one hundred men under

training..

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (@ )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3, 1964,

(c)

advised (SICK

COVER PAGE

C

SECRETI

HW 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRED

/MC 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as a bnother

in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, Dr, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (5440

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica®

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (50T)C8

On March 6. 1964

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to lima, Peru. (SA)CK)

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP• (I U)

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

HH

50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 14

---

## Page 15

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNIT

D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

11-22-91

INDIA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

CLASSIFIED BY 6668

Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UICLASSIFIED

EXCEES WHERE SHOWN,

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommandations

nor conclusions of

the FBi. It is the property of

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

10-24-94

siassified by SAABIAGCL

On March 2; 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General,

Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURe is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (e)

RUSSELI OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, san Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS réquested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY EZUFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/20/11 ngn/ de

& RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PANT

TOTAL DENIAL

14W

50953 DooId:32297390

Page 15

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

• Exetuded from Automatic

- Downgrading and Deelassification

---

## Page 16

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the jUre, he did not know

whether this organization 1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (e)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, #l salvador,

• advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (E)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN, HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States

which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still

valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

I-I furnished the following information on March 31,

1964.

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico,

• Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER iS a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. (dU)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished

O8 ProfesSor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, AS (U)

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

77 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 16

---

## Page 17

.FD-26ª (Rev. S-1459)

SECREU

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

(u)

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D.

TITLE OF CASE

FFICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

APR 2 9 1964

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

Jhk

11-22-97

SYNOPSIS g

AtI. INFORMATION CONTAIMED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

2:300 PESE 220N

DT1 117202

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite

informatio

'e JURe activities there.(e) FRANCISCO U

SORDEN HARIMAN resides in San Salvador

but apparently is inactive.

Backgroun

information set

out re JURE delegate

in Mexico?)

JFK

sps macIKse

1-24-44

E SOUREES

MULTY

- RUC -

Classified by BJA

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64.(J(U) Declassify on: OAR 2/85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

The following information received from the Army

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

and to the United States Department of State.

REVIEWED BY FOWJFK TASK FORCE

SPECIAL AGEN

98150 dul

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PAFT

TOTAL DENIAL

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

BU

ET 105-114543

MC TILE 105-3776

SEE

COVER PAGE B

our

REVIEWED BY RUFK TASK FORCE

-520

Disemberian Record 5/20/87 poon as

RELEASE IN FULL

BELFASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE ON CIA INFORMATION

AN TANS DOGUET. JM 6: 25-97

ExCOpT FOR thE BRACKETS.

SID IKSR

Notations

8-30-971

SEE REVERST

SIDE FOR

CLASSITICATION

ACTION

SECRET

NN 50953 DooId: 32297390 Page 17

105-114543-114

---

## Page 18

SECRET

MC 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training. He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps..

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in •

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

IS VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS®

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(e)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both It. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency (C)

On March 3. 1964-

advised (50008

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET

WW 50953

Doold: 32297390 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

«(u)

[MC 205-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, 1l any, was then in Costa Rica. 3Q/)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (5y2(5)

On Marah 6 1a6A

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (5A)(s

The information contained in the enclosed report.

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP. N

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activitles

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

COVER PAGE

D

SECRETI

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 19

---

## Page 20

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNID STATES DEPARTMENT OF J

USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

11-22-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SUD/ISN

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

This: document contains neither

AIT INFORAATTON CONTAINED

JFK)

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. it is the property of

the FBI and is leaned to your ageney;

HORGIA 1S UNCLISSIILED

it and its contents are not to be

EXCEET WHERE SHOWN

distributed outside your agency.

OTHERWISE

(JFK)

58 MAC/ISR

10-24-44

Classified toy S16 BJA/ECI

Declassify on: DADR %/85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 19OLSON

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica.

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY SEE/JFK TASK FORCE

ON S/ 201 natche

I RELEASE IN FULL

J RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

I NW

50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 20

CONFIDENTIAL

Group 1

Exeluded from Automatie

Downgrading and Deelassifieation

---

## Page 21

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization 1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (e)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O] immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964.

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F

Mexico, file No. 4/354.3'60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on

April 4,

1929• LANTER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725• C

и)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished

the

names

O8 PrOTESSOR LUIS 6. TORETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, ((U)

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 21

---

## Page 22

FD-263 (HEN: 5-1-59)

SECRET -

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING QFFICE

MEXICO, D. F

FFICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

PAPR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS : CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

jhk

SYNOPSIS :

LASSIFIED BY 5668 SUDIS

DECLASSIFY ON: 23X1,6

(JFK)

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

[RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURe in

Costa Rica but no definite information

re JUre activities there. FRANCISCO (U)

BORDEN HARTMAN reSides In

but apparently is inactive. Background

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico.7(CmL)

Sp8 MAC/ISR

- RUC -

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

MULTIDIE SCORCES

Classified by SuBJA/GCL

•U) Declassify on: OADR 91/85

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United states

Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGEN

APPROVED

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

00i

BU

FILE 105-114543 EWED BY SHUFK TASK FORGE

MC FIDE 105-3776

3/20/57 syn dat

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SEE COVER PAGE

RELEASE IN PART

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jm 6-25-97

TOTAL DENIAL

Except foR the Birchers

REVIEWED

Arman

SLD /KSR

Dink

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

"Dissemination Record-of Attached Report

78-30-97

TO RELEASE IN FULL

8/92 dol

TASK FORCESS NOISELL

RELEASE IN PART

CLASSISICATION

ACIION

TOTAL DENIAL

₩ 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 22

SECRETI

105-114543-114

---

## Page 23

SECRET

(MC 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there

are approximately. three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

Is VERO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS®

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

• sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

(c)

training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in

• Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of

the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (6)

Both It. Col, FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3, 1964,

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET

7N 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRED

(es) (n)

MC 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this. man as a brotberr

In-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DE. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, 1l any, was then in Costa Rica, (Sy*(E)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE

FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica®

He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information.(syx)CX

On March 6 106d

advised SA, WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor-

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (50)Cy

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP. (CALL)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested attices when secelved (sly)

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 24

---

## Page 25

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF J

STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CONFIDENTIAL

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

(JFK

Sp& MAC/USR

10-24-94

Classified by S86 BTA/GCL

Declassity on: OADR //85

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

11229)

the FRT.

It is the property of

the FBl and is loaned to your agency:

it and its contents are not to be

CLASSIFIED BY _5668 SUDAS distributed outside your agency.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, san dose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASIRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State

approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

pOS

REVIEWED BY ST/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/30/10 mold ar

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

- Exeluded from Automatie

Downgrading and Deelassification

TH) 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 25

---

## Page 26

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JUre, he did not know

whether this organization is active in costa Rica®

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTINE, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador• GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador: @)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

that one

FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

I-l furnished the

following information on March 31,

1964.

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354. 3'60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. M(4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

names

o1 Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, (K)U)

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

H# 50953

DoOId: 32297390

Page 26

---

## Page 27

ED=263. (Rev. 5=1-59)

"SECRETI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING MEXICO, D.

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

SYNOPSIS:

LLL. INFORMATION CONTATNED

EREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEPT FRERE SHOWN

MHERWISE

OFFICE BUREAU

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 2 9 1964

3/2-4/24/64

EPORT

МАТТНЕЙ

D. CRAWFORD, JR.

TYPED BY

jhk

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

11-22-97

RA - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY 5768 SEDISR

DECLASSIFY CN: 25X

JFK)

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

costa Rica but no definite intormatio

re JURE activities there.()FRANCISCO / U

BURDEN PARIMAN reSides in San Salvados,

(JFK)

but apparently is inactive. Background

information set out re JURE delegate

• in Mexico u

101210-44

MUSTIFLE SOURCES

- RUC -

Classified by

BEZERENCES: Mexico CIty letter 2/28/64 @Pupeclassify on: gal//85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica,

on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department

of state.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Agency!:

Request Recd.

Date Fwd:

sHow Fwd.

By

BU FILE 105-114543 VIEWED

F 105-3776

BY SIJFK

TASK FOFCE

5)20/97 milder

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELFASE IN FULL

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SEE COVER

PAGE

RELEASE IN PART

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 6-25-97

TOTAL DEREDEWED

ExCEpT FoR thE BRACIUTS

BY RENTER TASK FORCE S1D/KSA7

Dissemination Röcord.of Attached Report

OM

918)

(IFK)

SERREVERSE

RELEASE IN FULL

SIDE

OR

RELEASE IN PART

CLASSIRICATION

ACTION

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET

105-1145439114

HW 50953 DooId: 32297390 Page 27

---

## Page 28

[ису 105-5176

SECRET

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(c)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency •(C)

On March 3 1960

COVER PAGE

C

'SECRET

17 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECRED

мС 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this. man as a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (S4))

stated that it is his understanding

that

representatIves of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGUERS, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested

dissemination be made of this information. (S

On March 6. 1964.

(S)

davIsed DA WADE #. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (SC

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE F. KNAPP. SO U)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau eut laterasted offices when recalved. kill;

COVER PAGE

D

SECRED

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 29

---

## Page 30

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

nOTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

11-22-47

CLASSIFIED BY 5768S60lESR

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

DSC: ASSIFY ON: 25X_

JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WRENE SHOWN

OHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations not conclusions of

• the FRl. It is the property of

the FBl and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency. /

(JEK)

Sp8mAC/KSI

18-24-94

Ciassifiad by SP6 BJA/GCL

Declassify on: OADR 71/85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as

the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State,

at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY ZI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 5/20/97 m

1de

DY RELEASE IN FUEL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

WH 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 30

C O

NFIDENTIAL

Group +

Exetuded from Automatie

Downgrading and Declassifieation

---

## Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization 1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL'

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (6)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A, MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964•CX (4)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3'60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANdER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. 154

и)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

os Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, (U)

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

HN 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 31

---

## Page 32

F8-263° (FeV, 5-1-59)

(SECRET:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D.

F

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

fu BUREAU

DATE

APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

TYPED BY

ljhk

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

11-22-47

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUDISR

DECLASSIRY ON. 20X_

SYNOPSIS:

RAIMUNDO CUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite

information

re JURE activitiés there f) FRANCISCO

JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCEPT W

01H22

BORDEN HARTMAN resides

San Salvador,

but apparently is inactive.

Background

information set out re JURE delegate

in Nexico Tol)

- RUC -

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64 ru)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

JFK

SPEMACISK

10-24-44

Classified by BULTIPLE/SOURCES BIA GCL

Declassify on: OADE 7N85

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

2V

Agency..

Request Reed.

¿Date Fwd.

"Höw Fwd.

By

ECIAL AGEI

_ TASK FORCE DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

ON

BU

FILE 105-114543

5/20/5 sya/d00

RELEASE IN FULL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

105-3776

RELEASE IN PART

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

SEE

COVER PAGE B

TOTAL DENIAL

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Armi

INCIS DOCUMENT. Jm 6-25-97

REVIEWED

BY

ROWER EARNER tHE BRACKETS

Dissemination Record.of. Attached ReporN

Malian

SED/RSK

8-30-97

* RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SIDE OR

CLASSSFICATION

ACTION

'SECRET

50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 32

105-114543-114

---

## Page 33

SECRET

MC 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto. Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members. of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E: KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS®

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency • (C)

On March 3. 1964

advised (5A)0K

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET

HW 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 33

---

## Page 34

SECRET

MC 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this. man as a brother

in-law of JUAN BOSCH... He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica.

(5)

stated that it is his understanding

that

representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE

FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes

that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. S)

On March 6. 1964

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Alres, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (54)0E

sotting torna

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting torth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE B. KVAPP. & (U)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

HH

50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 34

---

## Page 35

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

1-22-47

CLASSIFIED BY SULS SEDISRUNTA REVOLUCIONARTA CUBANA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta • JURE)

(1614)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I8 UNGLASSIFIED

EXCRET WRIES SHOWN

OTHERWISE

(JFK)

This document contains neither

5p80/24-90

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBl. It is the property of

Classified by SASBJA/saL

the F31 and is laned to your agency, Declassify On: /OADR%/85

it and its contents

are not to be

distributed

outside your agency.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (&)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

Vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY /JFK TASK FORCE

ON

520/97 nn/0

+ MELEASE IN FOLL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

Exeluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Deelassification

HH 50953 DooId:32297390 Page 35

---

## Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization

1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (< )

FLORENCIO VICENTE

ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 01 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information

available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

1964.

* (4)

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA,

disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,'

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

of professor LUIS 6. TOPSIs; Presidente Carranza Ma, 164, (40 U)

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

| WW 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 36

---

## Page 37

FD=263 (Rey. 5-1-59)

'SECRET;

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING MEXICO, D:

F

ORIGIN

OFFICE BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

jhk

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS : CUBA

11-224

RA - CUBA

CLASSIFIED B 5468 SUD/S

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

T,6

(JFIC)

YNOPSIS

[RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

costa Rica but no definite informatior

re dure activities there. FRANCISCO U

San salvador,

AIT. INFORMATTON CONMIbut apparently is inactive. Backgrounc

HEREIN IS UNCEASSTFLED

information set out re JURE delegate

EXCEZE TESTS SHOWN

in Mexico•|(W)

50 8 прас/как

- RÚC -

Classified by BAlC

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64.

(AU)

Declassify on: OADRA// 85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

BU

FILE

105-114543

ON

[MC]rILE- 105-3776

SEE

COVER PAGE

B

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

REVIEWED BY E

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

/JFK

TASK FORCE

Agency !

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Ву

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RELEASE IN FULL

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE IN PART

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

TOTAL DENIAL

IN THIS DOCUMENT TM 6-25-97

WATER!:

REVIEWED BY FONJEK TASKERT FOR ThE BRPCHEIS

Dissemination Record of Artached ReportiN 9/g19/ at=

54D/KSR

8-30-973

- RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SIDETOR

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 37

105-114543-114

---

## Page 38

Гис 105-

2) (u)

SECRET

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in

San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

|(e)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of

the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by

MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. C

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3. 1964.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

HH 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 38

---

## Page 39

SECRED

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH,. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica, (SICK

5

stated that it is his understanding

that

representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica®

On the other hand, he believes

that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

• Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (5)CS

On March 6, 1964.

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said Investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. C

Argentine,

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation

in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP.

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

(NU)

COVER PAGE

D

'SECRET

HH

70953

DooId: 32297390 Page 39

---

## Page 40

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 2 9 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

JFK

SUS MACISR

This document contains neither

ALL INFORMATION CONTATNED

HEREID IS UNCIASSIRIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

recommendations nor conclusions

miscued by a

5869-214L

the FBI.

It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to jour agency;

Declassify on: OADR 7/85

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CLASHED BY 566854-12597

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

(Ji)

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles,

and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

Embassy,

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

San Jose, Costa Rica,

advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two CM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

state, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

Department of State approved the export of the two LM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

ou

FEVIEWED BY

SI/JFK TASK FORCE

5/20/97 ngn/

& RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

Group t

Exeluded froin Automatic

downgreding and Declassifieation

NH 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 10

---

## Page 41

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTINE, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received

any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one

FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN iS

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

1964.

*(u)

T-I furnished the following information on March 31,

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

MexiCO, D. f

disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4g

1029. KArAR possesses cuban Passport do. 1873 a

When entering Mexico,

LANIER furnished

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164,

đ(u)

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

Now 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 41

---

## Page 42

1D-263 1Bey

5-1-59)

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D. F

TITLE OF CASE

FICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

DATE

APR 2 9 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

: 11-22-77

CLASSIFIED BYS 468 SUOUSE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/,

6

SYNOPS IS $

ATI INFORMATION CONTAINED

BREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

C. CEPT WHERE SHOWN

OIHERWISE

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Co to a to ering intonation)

BORDEN HARIMAN resides In San Salvador,

but apparently is inactive. Background

Information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico. I/M

S08 MAC NSR

- RUC -

Classified by 67A CeL

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. (AU) Declassily on: OAD 1/85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

IN CHARGE DU!

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

REVIEWED BY SE/UFK TASK FORCE

BU FILE 105-114548N S|20/95706s

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

MC]FILE

105-3776

RELEASE IN FULL

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE IN PART

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIOAO

SEE COVER

• PAGE

TOTAL DENIAL

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 6-25-97

REVIEWED BY REEK FAR FORDE thE BRACIUTS

Dissemination Record of Altached ReportON

1/1 976 at

SID /ISR

6-30-67

Agency:

Request Recd

Date Fwd."

How Fwd.

By

* RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CLASSDFICATION

LACTION

india.

SECRET

HH 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 42

105-114543-114

---

## Page 43

SECRET

MC 105-3

3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was usod

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men..

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San

Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(2)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revoluton do which he dad MANual printon, A 020 RAY.(C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3. 1964.

advised (SX)($8

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET

NW 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 43

---

## Page 44

SECRET®

8U)

[мс 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROL, aNO

AURALLANO SANCHEZ ARANGO.

He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. 59100

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information.

(s)

On March 6 1061

(5)

advised sh WADE &. KNAPP that his records reflect, FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

Не

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires.

Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was turnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP. CA

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

Bureau and interested offices when received. ol

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

COVER PAGE

D

SECRED

HH

50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 14

---

## Page 45

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

1n-22-97 CONFIDENTAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5448 SIDI KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(J(1C) (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

ATT. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS URCEASSIFIED

Oratories

This document contains neither

recommendations aor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI and is loanod to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

10-20 Lisa

Declassify on: DADRY /85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General,

Criminal Investigations, san

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two IC vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

state, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of state approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY

SW/JFK TASK FORCE

c4 5/20/92 m/des

A RELFASE IN FULL

C SLEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONEIDENTIAL

Group I

"Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Dectassification

NH 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 45

---

## Page 46

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the Jure, he did not know

whether this organization is active in costa rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban

exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the suRe does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one

• FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba,' and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A,, San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN IS

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1

furnished the following information on March 31,

1964•

U)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

MEXiCO,

Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDÓRO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANDER Is

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929.

LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725•Ckl 41

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

Of Prolessor LUIS G. TOPITE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, 44U)

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

I 50953 Doeld: 32297390 Page 16

---

## Page 47

FI? 63 (Ber 5-1-59)

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

MEXICO, D. F.

BUREAU

APR 29 1964

3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

jhk

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

CHARACTER OF CASE

(JURE)

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

11-22-47

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD /ISTL

DECLACSICY ON: 25X

SYNOPSIS:

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite, information

re JURE activities there.(e) FRANCISCO U)

(JAK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

AARDIE IS UNCLASSIFIED

#. CEPT VRIORE SHOWN

OR HERWX SE

but apparently is inactive. Background

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexicold)

10124-94

- RUC -

Classified by BIp/c

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. (A)M) Declassify on: OADR//85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

BU

FILE 105-114543

(u)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

MCF

105-3776

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SEE COVER

• PAGE B

IN THIS DOCUMENT, Jm 6-25-9>

REVIEWED BY ESWJFK TASK FORCE

ExCEpT. FoR the BRACkETS

aus

RELEASE Role Raced of Anachod Repon REVIEWED MY ENGEK TASK FORCE 54D /RSK

ON

Reques #LEASE IN PART

5/20/97 min/ dad

SO REVERSE VAK

- SIDE

TOR

SO RELEACE

DET TOTAL DENIAL

IN FULL

How Fwd..

HELEASE

CLASSARICATION

IN PART

ACTION

.. wait

By r.

DENIAL

ECRE

1H 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 47

105-114543-114

---

## Page 48

SECRET. -

(u)

[мс/ 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information

there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps:

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

15 VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica

and is

He said that anti-

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(c)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by

MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

both ut. Cole FIGuLs and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3. 1964.

advised

COVER PAGE

C

"SECRETI

NW 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 48

---

## Page 49

SECREID™

[мс]105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as

a brother

in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, If any, was then in Costa Rica. (5x)(8)

that representatives

stated that it is his understanding

of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President Of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (540000

On March 6, 1964.

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infon

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (51

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP- lA 4)

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activitles

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

COVER PAGE

D

(SECRET

HH

70953

DocId: 32297390 Page 49

---

## Page 50

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 2 9 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

11-22-91

CLASSIFIED BY 5268.

DECLASSIFY OIN: COX

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

(TRIC)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCEPT WUERE SHOWN

(JFK)

This document contains neither

5p8

MAC ISR

recommendations nor conclusions of

10-24.-94

the FBi.

it ig the property of

the fisco is tand to your ageney: Classified by S868JA/GCL

itiond its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

Declassify on: BADR

4/185

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,.

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of state approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

ASVIEWED BY SEW/JFK TASK FORCE

oN 5/20/97 nya

CONFIDENTIAL

I RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

L

TOTAL DENIAL

Group I

Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

ITH

50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 50

---

## Page 51

CONFIDENTIAL.

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know.

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL*

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

Is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN Is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador.

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964.

U)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. KU)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

of Professor LuB Er POPETE, Presidente Carranza NO. 164, 6) (U)

- 2=

CONFIDENTIAL

WW 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 51

---

## Page 52

SECKEL

5D 283 18 94-5-1-591

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D.

TITLE OF CASE

F

FICEOF ORIGIN

BUREAU

APR 2 9 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

jok

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary •Junta)

(JURE)

SYNOPS IS!

INTORMATION CONTAINED

LEIN IS UNCIuSSIFIED

NST WE & SHOWN

****:

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

1-22-71

CLASSIFIED BY 546& SED SK

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 1,6

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO iS head of JURE in

(JFK)

Costa Rica but no definite information

re JURe activities there ( FRANCISCOU

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in

San Salvador,

but apparently is inactive. Background

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico. (/(ru)

5p8 MACISR

10-24-94

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the

details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

REVIEWED ESCHEEK TASK FORCE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Army

ON

9/8/57 cak

BU FILE 105-114543 RELEASE IN FULL

MCINE

205-3776

RELEASE IN PART

• SEE

COVER PAGE B

• TOTAL DENIAL

0172

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Report: VIEWED BY

pUS

Notations TASK FORCE

51e019 milde

DA RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TAT

SECRET

CHAL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRCATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-25-97

Extept For the Bracurs

SLD/KSR

8-30-9

SIDE SOR:

CLASSAFICATION

ACTION:

, WW 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 52

105-114543-114

---

## Page 53

SECRED

MC 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes •

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

IS VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionarto, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C )

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3, 1964,

advised

COVER PAGE

C

'SECRET'

NW 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 53

---

## Page 54

SECRED

d1u)

[мс] 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO 1s the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH.

He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI• MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (5y2)CR)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JukE, which is headed by MANOLO BAY,

nave close contact with dOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica.

He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no

dissemination' be made of this information, SKIS

On March 6. 1964.

(s)

advIsed SA WADE #. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said Investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. C

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP.

* (1)

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

sureau and interested offices when resenter fell

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

ATHT

70953

DooId: 32297390 Page 54

---

## Page 55

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

11-22-97

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 54D/SR

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

DECLASSIFY ON: 2UX_

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

(JFK)

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

JAK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEPC LERS C30VN

OTIERATE

sp8 m

10-94-44

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions

the FBI. It is the property of

Classified by Se6/3TA/6CL

it and its contents are not to be

it and tacon is are to your agency; Declassify on: dADR%/85

distributed outside your agency.

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose,

Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a

hauling concern.

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL, OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State,

at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the

vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

pus

REVIEWED BY #H/JFK TASK FORCE

e 5/20/90 m/do

CONFIDENTIAL

C/ RELEASE IN FULL

O RELEASE IN PART

troup t

Exeluded from Automatio

Downerading and Declassification

TOTAL DENIAL

HH 50953 DooId:32297390 Page 55

---

## Page 56

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTINE, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received

any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (c)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does

not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A.,

San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244•

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN iS

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-l furnished the following information ón March 31,

1964.

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F

Mexico, file No. 4/354:3'60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER 15 a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport

: No. 38725. 6) (u)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, 8 U

: -2=

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 56

---

## Page 57

D-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MEXICO, De

F

BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

ф(u)

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 29 1964

: 3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

jhic

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

11-22-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5768 SUD/ISR

DECLASSIFY OUT 2UR 1, 6

SYNOPSIS:

RAIMUNDO GUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite information

re JURE activities there. )FRANCISCO u

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in.

San Salvaddr,

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

but apparently is inactive.

Background

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

information set out re JURE delegate

10-Q-94

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

in Mexicole)

OTHERWISE

MULTIPLE SOURCES

- RUC -

•ARTAGCL

Classified by

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64. (LU) Declasify on:

CADR 7/1/85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor-

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

BU FILE 105-1145430N SLOpm

REVIEWED BY IS/UFM TASK FORCE

[MC

7 1L4 205-3776

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

/RELEASE IN FULL

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE IN PART

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SEE

• COVER PAGE B

TOTAL DENIAL

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 6-2547

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

REVIEWE NEONE JFK TASK FORCE SID /KSR

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

ON 918/92000

-8-30-47

RELEASE IN FULL

(JFK)

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HN 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 57

SECRET

+05-114543-114

---

## Page 58

SECRET

MC 705-3776

Colonel

HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

IS VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage.' He estimated there were one hundred men under (& )

training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was ar

anti-CASTRO movement headed by

MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency e)

On March 3: 1964

](S)

advised (54)06)

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET!

NH 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 58

---

## Page 59

SECRET

•(u,

MC 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE. He identified this man as a brother-

In-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI• MANUEL FERNANDO TURROL, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which

these individuals, if any, was

then in Costa Rica. (SUgS)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives or sis, which is headed by LAYolo Ray,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica•

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica®

He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (5x08

On March 6. 1964 I

(S)

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires,

Argeptine,

and

Irom there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (5

The information contained in the enclosed report

was Turnished to SA WADE do KNAPP. X

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

«(U)

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

HH

70953

DooId: 32297390 Page 59

---

## Page 60

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBi and is leaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

10-24-94

Classified by SLABJA/ECL

Declassify on: DADRA, /85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

par

REVIEWED BY SWUFK TASK FORCE

ON

51

20

CORELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5648 SUDIES

n"NASSIFY ON: 25X

-Group-

Eseluded from Automatier

JFK)

Downgrading and Declassifieation

TOTAL DENIAL

HW

50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 60

---

## Page 61

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JUrE, he did not know

§ whether this organization is active. in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTINE, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cuban's who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (4)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964.

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. Fi,

Mexico,

file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April

4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725.

4)

When entering Mexico,

LANIER furnished the

names

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza

No. 164,

*(4)

- 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 61

---

## Page 62

*FD-203-CReV. 5-1-59)

«SECRET)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D. F.Q

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

APR 2 9 1964

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

jhk

SYNOPSIS:

11-22-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/CSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 20X_/

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite

intormat101

•e JURE activities there (FRANCISCO U

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in san salvador,

out apparently is inactive. Backgrounc

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico.](0e)

10-34-94

MULTIPLE SOURCES

- RUC -

Classified lay

BIA/GCL

REFERENCES: MeXICO City letter 3/28/61-C(VU) Declassify de/C

OADR 1185

ADMINISTRATIVE:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA. WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the

United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

REVERSARY, POTAK TASK FORGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

ON

918/92 caL

BU

FILE

[мс]

FIDE

105-3776

SEE

COVER PAGE B

105-114543

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

puS

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

NH 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 62

ON

I NEEASE IN FULL

HELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET'

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-25-97

SES RIVERSE

SIDE TOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

8-30-71

(JFK)

105-114543-114

---

## Page 63

SECRET

105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt. Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

in Charge, Security Agency,

San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in

. Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of

the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both It. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAVA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

Untted States Government agency (C)

On March 3. 1964.

advised (SLE)

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 63

---

## Page 64

SECRETI

[MC] 105-3776

SA WADE E: KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother

In-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ; and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (SA1)(5)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

costa Rica, and DANIeL ODUBER, present foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (st)

On March 6. 1964.

(5)

davIsEd DA wAlD E. INAP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

Said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires,

Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (54

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was

furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP.

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to

the

Bureau and interested offices when recered. (ful

COVER PAGE

D

'SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 64

---

## Page 65

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29•1964

11-22-4h

CLASSIFIED BY 5668, SUD/KSA

REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

DECLASSIFY ON: LUX

Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEPC E2108.200%

0r26.4

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the PBi.. It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

SP8. MAX/ISK

18-2

4-44

Classified by Sf6

Declassify on: DADR 7/185

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

José, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

embassy, san Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

chat anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of state approved the export of the two LCW

roved th

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

008

REVIEWED BY RE/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/20/90 nys.1d0

CONFIDENTIAL

a RELEASE IN FULL

-Froup P

RELEASE IN PART

Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Decrassification

TOTAL DENIAL

50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 65

---

## Page 66

CONFIDENIIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JUre, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica..

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIA E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received

any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN, 18

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1

1964. (0)

furnished the following information on March 31,

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

VexICO, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3'60"/105009, assigned

tO JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LaNIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. (8) 4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished

•¿ PrOSeSSeY LUIS &, TOPTE, Presidente Carranza No. 184, Ci

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

H# 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 66

---

## Page 67

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

SECREI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING DEFICE

MEXICO, D. F.

TITLE OF CASE

(1) 4)

CE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

DATAPR 2 9 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

TYPED BY

jhk

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS

- CUBA'

11-22-47

RA - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SUDASK

DECLASSIFY CN.LUN

SYNOPSIS:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite informatio

re JURE. activities there &) FRANCISCO

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in

but apparently is inactive. Background

information set

out

re JURE delegate

in Mexico. Jetu

- RUC -

sp8 miac/isp

10124-94

MULTIPLE DURCES

Classified by

AJA GICL

Declassify of.

OADR 2/85

REFERENCES: Mexico City Letter 2/28/64 C% (U)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

in the details

since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

BU FILE 105-114543

[MC FILE

REVIEWED

105 - 3776

BY SEIFK TASK EGIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SEE

• COVER PAGE

B

ON 5/20/97 /de

DECEASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONEI

I RELEASE IN FULL

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 6-25-97

RELEASE IN PART

ExCEpt foR thE BracerS

SID INSR

Dissemination Record of Attache ORsker DENIAL

REVIEWEDY PENUK TASK FORCE 8-30-47

Agency

Request Recd.

Date: Fwd:

How Fwd.•

BY

CN

9/8/97 dal

SED REVERSTIFLE

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

SÉCRETI

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32297390 Page 67

105-114543-114

---

## Page 68

SECRET

(10] 105-3776

и)

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col, FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

IS VERO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He sald that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, Stated the anti-CAStRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in Infitration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY.(C)

Both It. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3. 1964

(c)

advised (SK

COVER PAGE

C

SECRETI

NN 50953 DooId: 32297390 Page 68

---

## Page 69

• SECRET

И)

(мС)105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother

In-law of JUAN BOSCH. He sald among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI. MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica, (41)(S)

stated that it is his understanding

that

representatives of JURE,

which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE

FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica®

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica.

can de a

He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information.(

(5)

On March 6, 1964.

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

in Honduras.

He

belleved to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru.

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. 'KNAPP.

<{4)

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activitles

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to

the

bureau and interestad offices when recolved. tell

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

NY 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 69

---

## Page 70

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It io tie property of

it and its contents are not to be

distributed

outside your agency.

Sp8 mac/ise

10-24-94

Declassify on OADR 31/85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, san Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in costa Rica.

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United states Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

DUS

REVIEWED BY $B/JFK TASK FORCE

ON S

2097 mp/cal

I RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CONFIDENT I A FLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0/1S/

Group 1

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X0

included from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

L

TOTAL DENIAL

H 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 70

---

## Page 71

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica®

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa,

Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras..(e)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244. MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

I-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964 •

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3'60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. (%) (4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished

the

names

of Prosessor LUis G. TOPSTI, Presidente Carranza No. 154, (u)

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

NA 50953 • DocId: 32297390 Page 71

---

## Page 72

50:263 (Rey 35-1-598

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D. F

TITLE OF CASE

FICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban

• Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 29 1964

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

Lihk

11-22-17

CLASSIFIED BY 56685401651

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1,6

SYNOPS IS:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHONN

OTHERWISE

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite

information

re JURe activities there.(a) FRANCISCO

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in

(u)

San Salvador,

but apparently is inactive.

Background

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico]edu)

10124-94

MULTIPLE SOURCES

- RUC -

Classified by

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64.( u/Declassify on/

@ADR 1/85

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

TASK FORCE

BU FILE 105-22454 ON 5/20/97 ma/ler

RELEASE IN FULL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

MC FILE

105-3776

RELEASE IN PART

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATIONI

SEE

COVER

PAGE

B

L

TOTAL DENIAL

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-25-97

REVIEWED BY

Dissemination Record of Attached Refte

9/8197 lorens

SID/NSR

8-30-97

Agency

Request Recd.:

Date Fwd::

How Fwd.

By

RELEASE IN FULL

SEE REVERSE

1514

RELEASE IN PART

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET

50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 72

105-114-543-1144

---

## Page 73

NC/105-3776

SECRED

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col, FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(c.)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in Infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

* anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency (C)

On March 3. 1964.l

(S)

advised (SArK)

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET

N7 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 73

---

## Page 74

SECRET

MC 105-3776

..WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO 1s the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother-

In-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other. individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DE: MANUEL FERNANDO TURROL, and

AURELLANO SANCHEZ ARANGO He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (SK)(S

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica®

He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (5) 06

On March 6. 1964-

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation Indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos ALres, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (SS)(s)

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP• (JU

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to

the

Bureau and interested offices when recelved. i (ul

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 74

---

## Page 75

7

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMÉNT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

.;.

CONFIDENTIAL

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

ALI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHORE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. Il is the property of

the FBi and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency..

SPENTARI

TAX ISE

Classified by ShRIAGCL

Declassity on: 040R /185

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

11-22-9

REVIEWED BY ZZIUFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/20/97 syn

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 5I0 SA

& RELEASE IN FULL

O RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

Froup I!

Excluded from Automatio

Downgrading and Declassification

CECLASSIFY ON: 25X de

(JFK)

HH 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 75

---

## Page 76

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JUrE, he did not know

whether this organization 1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States.

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0] immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANTER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER iS

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. (%)(U)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

hames

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza

No. 164,

- 2=

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 76

---

## Page 77

F;D-263-(Rev.

5-1-591

(SECRET'

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D. F

TITLE OF CASE

• ORIGIN

BUREAU

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

• CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

jhk

TASK FORCE

11-22-47

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/KSK

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

REVIEWED BY

syNops Is

RELEASE IN

RELEASE IN P

TOTAL DENIAL

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite informatior

re Juke activities there.GFRANCISCOU

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in

information set

int ration so out e Je deck round

in Mexico.Jerr

JFK)

JFK

10-24-94

MULTIPLE SOURCES

Classified by SABAGC

- RUC -

Declassify on: OADR VI/85

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/64.

*(u)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Agency

Request Reçd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd."'

By

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

GIA MAG ALE ANECTION TO

DECLANCHARRFION ANDIOR,

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

BU FILE 105-114543

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 5M 6 - 25-97

ExCEpt FOR thE

MC

FILE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEI

105-3776

SLD/RSK

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

8-30-91

EXCEPT WHERE SSCWN

SEE COVER PAGE B

(JFK)

OTHERWISE

DUS

REVIFWED

Dissemination Record of Affached Report

ENERONEN TASK FUNCE

ON

20

97 systat

RELEAC: IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIPICATION

ACTION

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET!

HN 50953 DooId:32297390 Page 77

+05-114543-114

---

## Page 78

SECRED

MC

105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was his belief that. Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, It. Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

iS VIRO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual.

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under (C)

training.

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security

Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both It. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency: (C)

On March 3. 1964.

5)

advisedS

COVER PAGE

C

(SECRET

NH 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 78

---

## Page 79

SECRETI

MC 105=3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE.

He identified this man as a brother-

in-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI: MANUEL FERNANDO TURRO, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. SALS

5

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an eX-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTINE, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (syds)

On March 6. 1964-

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (AL100

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central 'America

was turnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP. (e) Ul

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received. le(la

COVER

PAGE

D

SECRETI

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 79

---

## Page 80

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOVIN

OTHERWISE

This document contains

neither

recommendations

conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

SpEmACKSL

10-24-94

Classified by SP6 BJA/6CL

Declassify on: /OADk7785

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY ENUFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/20/97 ngz/80

& RELEASE IN FULL

PELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

11-22-47.

CCrotp-1

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SU /152

DECLAGSIFY CH: PEK

Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and Declassification

(JFK)

„NN 50953 DocId:32297390

Page 80

---

## Page 81

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization

1 1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

in adron a da wards

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN, is

that he was born on April 25, 1934. C

I-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964•

' (4)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F.

Mexico,

file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009,

assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on Apri

1929• LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. (%) 4)

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished

names

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza

No. 164,

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 50953

Docid: 32297390

Page 81

---

## Page 82

Fg:263 BeY. 5÷1-59)

'SECRED

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICI

MEXICO, D. F

- ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

BUREAU

APR 29 1964

3/2-4/24/64

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

jhk

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

CHARACTER OF CASE

(JURE)

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

11-22-9

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/KSR

DESLASSIFY ON: 25X

SYNOPSIS:

RAIMUNDO GUÍDIELLO is head of JURE in

JFK)

ALE INTORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

ITHERWISE

BORDEN/ HARTMAN resides in San Salvador,

but apparently is inactive. Background

information set out re JURE delegate

508 mAC/SR

10124-44

- RUC -

Classified by EJA CiaL

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/69. Of U Declassify on: OROR//1

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

BU FILE

105-114543

105-3776

SEE COVER PAGE

ON 5/20/17 nys/dat

REVIEWED BY EVEN TASK FORCE

RELEASE IN FULL

9/89 ddi

RELEASE IN PART

Notations

AGOREYEASE IN PART

Request Recd:

DOO FAL: DERIAL

How Fwd. **

By

SECRET

HH 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page B2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-25-97

EXCEpT FOR tht BrAckes

SLD /KSR

8-30-44

SEE REVERSE (JEK)

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

105-114543-4146

---

## Page 83

MC 105-3776

SECRET

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes

was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti-

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(c)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in Infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY. (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3. 1964.

(5)

advised (5<1)Cx2

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET!

ANN 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 83

---

## Page 84

SECRET

[мс) 105-3776

WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE, He identified this man as a brother

in-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, il any, was then in Costa Rica, (5e)(E)

that

representatives of Jurs,

stated that it is his understanding

which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGUERES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes

that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (S

On March 6. 1964.

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

He

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Alres,

Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru.

SICK

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation

in Central America

was furnished to SA HAD E. KNAPP. dU!

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activitles

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received. ul

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

70953

DooId: 32297390 Page 84

---

## Page 85

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIEENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

APR 29 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.. It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

(JFK)

14724-94

Classified by

SAbEJA/GCL

Declassify on: OADR 7/1/85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO was

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. )

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used :

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

DUS

REVIEWED BY E/JFK

TASK FORCE

01 5/20/51 nya

* RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

11-22-47

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 540/KSR

Group T

C-CLASSIFY ON: 25X_

Exeluded from Automatie"

Downgrading and Declassification

JFK)

TOTAL DENIAL

HH 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 85

---

## Page 86

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,.

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the

present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (e)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one

FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

1964. (e)

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport

Ce1zea on Cuba wee was bian evan, eyana, ou 35 A u

No. 38725. (C

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

names

o8 Professor LUIS G. TORETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, GU)

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

NN 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 86

---

## Page 87

FD=263. Rex$5-1-59)

#Ton ....

(SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING

MEXICO, D. F

FFICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 2 9 1964

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

jhk

TASK FORGE

FK

BY

REVIEWED

9/8/97 da

SINOPS IS :

RELEASE IN FUE

PLACEND

TOTAL DENIAL

11-2297

CLASSIFIED BY

5448 S00 KSR

DECLASSIRY ON: 25X

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

(FFIC)

Costa Rica but no definite information

re Juke activities there @ FRANCISCO U)

(N),

put apparently is inactive. Background

information

out re JURE delegate

in Mexico. (em

- RUC -

REFERENCES:

Mexico ally Letter 2/38/81.8f(u)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

10-24744

HUGTOLE SOURCES

Classified by

Declassify on

OADR 1/85

Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

CIA HAS NO DRIECTION TO

APPROVED

DECLAGNCHARGEUN AND/OR,

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONI

BU FILE 105-114543 IN THIS DOCUMENT. Em 6-25-97

EXCENT FOR tHE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

105-3776

BRACKETS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCERE WERE SHOWN

SEE COVER PAGE B

SID/KSR

OTHERWISE

8-3097

(JFK) 00S

Dissemination Record of Attached Repor REVIEWED i NoTationst

• TASK FONCE

Agency

Request Recd:

Date Fwd:

How Fwd.

By

du 5/20117 syn/do

-SEE REVERSE

- SIDE FOR

I RELEAS

: IN FULL

CLASSAgICAIION

ACIIÓN

PEL ELSE IN PART

I TOTAL DEMIAL

, NH 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 87 SECRETI

105-184543-114

---

## Page 88

SECRET

MC

105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

Information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training. He'

said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

It was

his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable

to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement. He said that anti-.

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and sabotage. He estimated there were one

hundred men under

training.

(<)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, (6)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency • (C)

On March 3. 1964

(s)

advised

COVER PAGE

SECRED

NH 50953

DocId: 32297390

Page 88

---

## Page 89

SECRED

MC 105-3776

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE,

He identified this man. as a brotber

In-law of JUAN BOSCH. He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DE: MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, 11 any, was then in Costa Rica, (5p)(JS)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica•

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica. He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (Sa

On March 6. 1964

S)

advIsed DA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (S0(X)

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E. KNAPP OEU)

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

7) (4)

COVER PAGE

D

'SECRET)

50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 89

---

## Page 90

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

APR 2 9 1964

ALL INFORMATION CONIAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

This document contains neither

recommendattona bor conclusions of

10-24-94

the FBI. It is the property of

the fill and is waned to your agency; Classified by 52667A GCL

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

Declassify On: JAEM

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (e)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, san dose, Costa Rica,

advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLsON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY

/JFK TASK FORCE

11-22-97

ON 5/20/97 my/dal

LE TRELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

i Group 1

Excluded from Automatie

Downgrading and Dectassifieation

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 90

---

## Page 91

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica.

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa,

Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any iniormation indicating that the June is

active in Honduras. (C

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy, San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 01 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid: MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A.,. San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244• MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-1 furnished the following information on March 31,

1964•

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

tO JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA,

disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba,, on April 4,

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport No. 38725. @L 4/

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

names

Of Professor LUIS Go TOPSTA, Presidente Carranza No. 185, )L

•2=

CONFIDENTIAL

50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 91

---

## Page 92

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL

SECRETI

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING DEFICE

MEXICO, D. F. (4)

TITLE OF CASE

FICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

DATE

APR 2 9 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D: CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

Shk

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

IS

— CUBA

11-22-97

RA - CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/IESR

DECLASSIFY ON. LUX./

JFK

SYNOPS IS:

(LI INFORMATION CONTAINED

JEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPI WHERE SHOWIN

OTHERWISE

RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

costa Rica but no definite information

re duke activities there. @)FRANCISCO U

BORDEN HARTMAN resides in San Salvador

but apparently is inactive.

information

set out re JURe delegate

in Mexico flu)

(JFK

10-24-94

MULTIPLE SOURCES

- RUC -

Classified by

REFERENCES: Mexico City letter 2/28/640

¿Pu Declassify on: MADR? 85

TASK FORCE

ADMINISTRATIVE:

IN FULL

REVIEWES)

ORELE

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United states Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set

forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the United states

Army and to the United States Department of State.

IN

RELEASE

ETOTAL DENIA

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-114543

MC

IDE

105-3776

SEE COVER PAGE B

A RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

L

TOTAL DENIAL

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION,

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 5M 6-25-97

EXCEpt FOR thE BRACHIS

SID/RSR

"SEE REVERSE

(JFK)

SIDE FOR

CLASSTRICATION

ACTION

SECRET

-WN 50953

DooId: 32297390

Page 92

185-114543-114

---

## Page 93

SECRETI

MC 105-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes. It was his belief that Puerto Viego was used

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

seemed to be considerable movement between the two camps.

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security Agency in San Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY. He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS®

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(e)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Seconc

in charge, security Agency, san Jose, stated the anti-CASIR

Cubans in Costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario, which, he said, in his opinion, was an

anti-CASTRO movement headed by MANUEL ARTIME and MANOLO RAY, (C)

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government agency. (C)

On March 3. 1964

COVER PAGE

C

SECRET

NH 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 93

---

## Page 94

SECRED

c7 105-3776

SA

WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE.

He identified this man as a brother

in-law of JUAN BOSCH, He said among other individuals who

have been active in the organization in Costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI: MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO. He was unable to state which of

these individuals, if any, was then in Costa Rica. (SACK)

stated that it is his understanding

that representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica.

On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL, ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica. He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (SALCE)

On March 6. 1964.

5)

advised SA WADE E. KNAPP that his records reflect FELIPE

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

He

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (51) 65)

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE E, KNAPP.

Legat, Mexico will continue to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bureau and interested offices when received.

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

IT 50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 94

---

## Page 95

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TICE

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CONFIDENTIAL

APR 2 9 1964

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary: Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendations

ior conclusions of

• the FBI. It is the property of

then its on is hand is vour ageney; Classified by SlAB JAGCL

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

Declassify on: OADR 7/85

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General, Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern.

CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (< )

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy,

San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two LCM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of

State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba. The

Department of State approved the export of the two LC

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY ES/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

5/20/17 mp/Das

11-22-97

CONFIDENTIAL

RELEASE IN FULL

[

RELEASE IN PART

Group I

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUDISR

TOTAL DENIAL

Preluded from Automatic DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Downgrading and Declassification

JFK)

HH 50953 DooId: 32297390

Page 95

---

## Page 96

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never beard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JURE, he did not know

whether this organization

1s active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica. OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica..

FELIX E. OVUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa; Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any information indicating that the JURE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised

on March 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. (C)

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an O-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244.

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN is

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964•

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, file No. 4/354.3"60"/105009, assigned

to JULIO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER is a

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April

1929. LANIER possesses Cuban Passport

No. 38725. C

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the

names

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164, 6) U,

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 96

---

## Page 97

read!

FD-283 (Rgv.*5-1-59)

SECRET'

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

"OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MEXICO, D. FU)

BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

(JURE)

DATE

APR 29 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/2-4/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

TYPED BY

ink

11-22-97

CLASSIFIED SY 576854J/18K

DECLASSIFY ON: 23X_

SYNOPSIS:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

FEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

RAIMUNDO GUIDIELLO is head of JURE in

Costa Rica but no definite

re JURE activities therel. FRANCISCO U

BORDEN HARTIAN resides in San ackurdund

but apparently is inactive.

information set out re JURE delegate

in Mexico.](lu)

MULTIPLE SOURCES

- RUC -

REFERENCES: Mexico City Ietter 2/28/64.06) Declassify On: OADR?/145

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information received from the Army

Attache, United States Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, on

March 2, 1964, by SA WADE E. KNAPP, is not being set forth

in the details since Colonel HARVEY advised that the infor

mation had already been disseminated to the

United States

Army and to the United States Department of State.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Agency

Request Recd:

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

FILE

: 105-114543EVIEWED BY S/UFK TASK CARETAS NO OBJECTION TO

(MC]

1 205-3776 ON Spoken des

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SEE

COVER PAGE B

1 RELEASE IN FULL

AN THIS DOCENT. IM 6-25-97

RELEASE IN PART

ExcEpt For the

DICA

DEVIEWED BY FEEK TAST FORCEAL

SID/ISR

8-30 197

Dissemination Reçord off Attached Repor

Notations

ON

18:

S0001

ATELEASE IN FULL

SEE REVERSE

SIDER

CLASSLFICATION

ACTION

(JFK)

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET

WH 50953 DocId: 32297390 Page 97

105-114543-614

---

## Page 98

SECRED

:05-3776

Colonel HARVEY stated that according to his

information there are approximately three hundred men in

all in training.

He said he understands they are being

trained for infiltration into Cuba and not for invasion

purposes.

by the trainees as their headquarters but said there

He was unable to state whether the Cubans being

trained in Costa Rica were members of subject organization

and could furnish

i no identifying data on the Cubans in

charge of these men.

The following information was furnished to

SA WADE E. KNAPP:

On March 3, 1964, Lt.Col. FERNANDO FIGULS QUIROS,

Head of the Security

Agency in San

Jose and Advisor to the

President, advised that the correct name of LUDWIG STACKY

is VEKO STACKY.

He described him as a very rich individual

who is friendly with the President of Costa Rica and is

head of the anticommunist movement.

He said that anti

CASTRO Cubans are training on his land and also on the

land of TEODORO QUIROS.

He said this training is not for

purposes of invasion but to prepare the men for infiltration

and

sabotage. He estimated there were one hundred men under

training.

(c)

On March 3, 1964, Captain GONZALO ARAYA, Second

in Charge, Security Agency, San Jose, stated the anti-CASTRO

Cubans in

costa Rica receiving training in infiltration

and sabotage were members of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionarto, which, ad said MANUEL ARTIE and MANOLO RAY. (C)

anti-CASTRO movement headed by

Both Lt. Col. FIGULS and Captain ARAYA stated

that the information furnished by them was confidential

and requested that it not be disseminated to any other

United States Government

agency. (C)

On March

1 3 1964

advised SAY

COVER PAGE

SECRET

, 1W 50953

DocId: 32297390 Page 98

---

## Page 99

SECRET

MC/ 105-3776

л)

SA WADE E. KNAPP that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO is the local

coordinator for JURE,

He identified this man as a brother

in-law of JUAN BOSCH. He

sald among other individuals who

nave been active in the organization in costa Rica were

ENRIQUE DE LA VEGA, DI, MANUEL FERNANDO TURROZ, and

AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO• He was unable to state which of

these individuals, If any, was then in Costa Rica.(SXS

stated that it is his understanding

that

representatives of JURE, which is headed by MANOLO RAY,

have close contact with JOSE FIGURES, an ex-President of

Costa Rica, and DANIEL ODUBER, present Foreign Minister of

Costa Rica. On the other hand, he believes that members

of the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario, headed by

MANUEL ARTIME, have close contact with President FRANCISCO

ORLICH of Costa Rica, He advised that both groups are

allegedly training in Costa Rica.

He requested that no

dissemination be made of this information. (5yk)(5)

On March a 10çA

PAPAST

RODRIGUEZ GARCIA is a Cuban exile residing in Honduras

but stated his office is not in contact with this man.

said Investigation by him has failed to disclose any infor

mation indicating that JURE is active in Honduras.

further advised that on March 1, 1964, FELIPE RODRIGUEZ,

believed to be identical with FELIPE RODRIGUEZ GARCIA,

departed Tegucigalpa via APSA for Buenos Aires, Argentine,

and from there expected to go to Lima, Peru. (Sa

The information contained in the enclosed report

setting forth the results of investigation in Central America

was furnished to SA WADE ES KNAPP. C)U

Legat, Mexico will continue

to follow the activities

of captioned organization in Mexico and Central America

and pertinent information will be furnished promptly to the

Bursau and interesteà offices when recolved, lll)

COVER PAGE

D

SECRET

50953

DooId: 32297390 Page 99

---

## Page 100

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TICE

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CONFIDENTIAL

APR 29 1964.

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

This document contains neither

recommendatious

nor

conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBi and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

(JFK

SP8mACIKSR

10424-94

Classified by 5P6/377/GCi

Declassify on: BADR 7,185

On March 2, 1964, Captain CARLOS LUIS CHAVES,

Assistant Director General,

Criminal Investigations, San

Jose, Costa Rica, advised that RAIMUNDO QUIDIELLO waS

known to him as the head of the JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (Cuban Revolutionary Junta - JURE) in Costa Rica.

CHAVES said that QUIDIELLO is a wealthy individual who

is engaged in the molasses business, the purchase and

sale of automobiles, and also has trailers which he uses

in a hauling concern. CHAVES was unable to state whether

JURE is active in Costa Rica and could furnish no infor-

mation concerning the activities of this organization. (C)

RUSSELL OLSON, Political Officer, United States

Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica, advised on March 2, 1964,

that anti-CASTRO Cubans are training in Costa Rica. OLSON

stated that they are using land owned by TEODORO QUIROS,

Vice President of the Legislative Assembly of Costa Rica.

OLSON advised that when QUIROS requested an

import license for two ICM vessels, the request was sent

to the United States Department of State, at which time it

was pointed out that apparently the vessels would be used

by Cubans opposed to the present regime in Cuba.

The

Department of State approved the export of the two LCM

vessels, which were delivered to QUIROS, according to OLSON.

REVIEWED BY CA/JFK TASK FORCE

5/20/97 moldat

I RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

11-22-97

GroupsI

CLASSIFIED BY SLee SC0/151

Excluded From Automatio DECLASSiFY uN. 25X

Downgrading and Declassifieation

(FFIL)

A NW 50953 DocId: 32297390

Page 100

---

## Page 101

CONFIDENTIAL

OLSON advised that he had never heard of QUIDIELLO

and that although he had heard of the JUre, he did not know

whether this organization is active in Costa Rica.

OLSON recalled that both MANOLO RAY and MANUEL

ARTIME, Cuban exile leaders, have made fairly recent trips

to Costa Rica.

OLSON was unable to identify the Cubans who

are in charge of training in Costa Rica..

FELIX E. OYUELA, Chief of National Investigations,

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, advised on March 7, 1964, that he had

not received any

information indicating that the JUrE is

active in Honduras. (C)

FLORENCIO VICENTE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, Head of Special

Investigations, National Police, San Salvador, El Salvador,

advised on Narch 9, 1964, that the JURE does not exist or

at least is not active in El Salvador. GONZALEZ said there

is no indication that FRANCISCO BORDEN is working against

the present regime in Cuba in El Salvador. ()

WILLIAM A. MITCHELL, Consul, United States

Embassy,

San Salvador, El Salvador, advised on March 11, 1964,

that one FRANCISCO BORDEN HARTMAN possesses an 0-1 immigrant

visa for the United States which had been issued to him in

Havana, Cuba, and is still valid. MITCHELL stated that this

individual is the manager of the publishing house Editora

Volcan, S. A., San Salvador, El Salvador, and he resides

at Calle 5 Pte. No. 5244•

MITCHELL stated the only back-

ground information available concerning BORDEN HARTMAN iS

that he was born on April 25, 1934.

T-l furnished the following information on March 31,

1964. (Ф) (u)

The files of the Mexican Immigration Department,

Mexico, D. F

Mexico, file No. 4/354.3'60"/105009, assigned

to JULÍO ISIDORO LANIER HEVIA, disclosed that LANIER 15 &

citizen of Cuba who was born in Havana, Cuba, on April 4,

1929• LANIER possesses Cuban Passport

No. 38725. R W

When entering Mexico, LANIER furnished the names

of Professor LUIS G. TOPETE, Presidente Carranza No. 164g (SU

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50953 DocId:32297390. Page 101

---

