# 124-10264-10492

## Page 1

124-10264-10492

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10264-10492.

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1643

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. PA

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/25/1963

PAGES: 81

SUBJECT: CC, CONTACT, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC, 15 MEMO, 2 COVER SHEETS, 5 CABLEGRAM, 1 A/T, 3 LTRS, 2 INSERTS,

2 ADMIN PAGES, 1 LHM

NW 50953 DocId: 32195999 Page 1

---

## Page 2

corney General

62116313

HEY IN

16431

Mr.

Mr

(1

and so encloned tes your recorde la a copy of the

maloeurns - 3

68-218991

SECRET HATRAZAL, ATTACHRI

May 26, 1976

Gallagher

• Cooke

Meyer

Burton

Mince Cler: Dall 2

Leavitt

Mr. Phillips).

MCD

52 126 PUD

5|28.174

le Delivered to Dept

Balivera

ISB CasE

8(EA

2 m0 ng

COBBE

MPROVED TE

Assoc. Dir-

Dop. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD liv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv..

Ext. Affairs:

Fin. & Pors.

Gen. Iny.

Idear. -

" Inspection

Intell...

Laboratory

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Eval.

i. Roc. Mgnt.

Spac. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm.

DiyagIN 1 6 1970L ROOM -

50953

DonTd: 32195999

•Fin. & Pers...

Gen. InVit

Ident.

inspection

Intel.TeL/51

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 2

15710

TEM

Laboratory

hea con ge

Plan. & Eval

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.--

Training...

---

## Page 3

4=3 (Roy. 1-17-63)

AIRCRAM

DECODEDICOP

CONFIDENTIAL

XX CABLEGRAM

D RADIO

I TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Moht no

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Deloach

Evans

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

URGENT

11-25-63

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASS S'ED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE:

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT PARIS

NO: 802}

ISSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY.

SERVICE DE DOCUMENTATION EXTERIEURE ET DE CONTRE - ESPIONAGE

(STECE), FRENCH FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE AND COUNTERESPIONASE SERVICE

ADVISED IT HAS RECEIVED INFO THAT THE RIFLE USED IN THE ASSASSINATTON

OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY BELIEVED TO BE AN ITALIAN RIFLE CALIBER 7.35,

MAKE CARCANO, MODEL 38, BEARING A JAPANESE TELESCOPE SITE, WAS

IMPORTED INTO THE U.S. BY THE COMPANY@ADAMS CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRY"

OF NEW YORK IN A LOT PURCHASED BY A CONTRACT SIGNED IN 1960 WITH

ITALIAN AUTHORITIES BUT DISCONTINUED IN 1962.

NORMAN W. PHILCOX

RECEIVED:

11-26-63

4:45 AM

EFH

1119₴

Declassity

JFK

62-109060-8441

685 DEC 2 1963

DRD CC: MR.

I'has document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemt

nation outside your Committee.

Its are i: limitad to officia, proceedings

big

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unauthörized. person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

i ne

CODECE

70c

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

•paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

CONFIDENTIAL"S

7H 50953 DOrTd: 32195999

Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-17-03)

Toison.

Belmont

Casper

Deicech

Frans.

Gale

Fiosen

Sullivame

Trotes

Tole, Room

Holmes

DECODED

COPY

G AIRGRAM

 RADIO ME TSLETYPE

lation nutside en

jerr Commulese che the cor

withou

Conometeor

URGENT:

912-9-63

DIRECTOR

the express approvcs

FROM LEGAT MADRID) NO. 412J

2:83. 20

traitod

Par

request and in mob foi dissemi-

#e official

Asclosed to inchorized

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FO KENNEDY

proccodings by

REBUCAB DECEMBER 6 LAST.

A fordiot

IINTELIEARE COLONEL LUIS MARTOS LALLANE, HEAD OF INFORATION

MEANE SERVICE, SPANISH HIGH GENERAL STAFF] ADVISES NO INFORMATION

RECEIVED IMPLICATING CASTRO REGIME IN ASSASSINATION OR

THAT OSWALD ACTING AS CUBAN AGENT: SAID ANY SUCH REPORT

WOULD HAVE COME TO HIS ATTENTION AND WOULD HAVE BEEN

IMMEDIATELY. FURNISHED THIS OFFICES

ELEME LIEUTENANT COLONEL EDUARDO BLANCO RODRIGUEZ, HEAD OF

INFORMATION SECTION, DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF SECURITY

N'

ADVISED SIMILARLY.

SAID JOSE MANUEL GARCIA PERUYERA

(BUFILE 105-102550) RECENTLY APPEARED HIS OFFICE TO MAKE

CLAIM THAT OSWALD WAS ACQUAINTED WITH HENRI GEORGE WAEGELI

SUBJECT OF BUFILE 100-434807 GARCIA IN PAST CONSIDERED.

POSSIBLE WITNESS AGAINST WAEGELL IN CONNECTION LATTER'S

UNAUTHORIZED. TRAVEL CUBA. BLANCO STATED GARCIA CONSIDERED

MENTALLY UNSTABLE AND UNRELIABLE AND NO SIGNIFICANCE PLACED

IN HIS STATEMENTS, BLANCO CONSIDERING DEPORTATION GARCIA

IN VIEW PREVIOUS ANTI-FRANCOACTIVITIES, BLANCO SUGGESTED

GARCIA CONTACT LEGAT, GÁRCIA DID CONTACT LEGAT BRIEFLY

REC-13

2034

Ferna

XEROX

67104060

LA LOA

12/05163

24. 1963

NEY ALDEC

B0 ban me

i22 08026 1997

Hellisence contained id the above message is to be disseminated outsiderthe Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32195999

Page 4

i.

---

## Page 5

42184: 9-17-630 75

DECODED COPY

XI CABLEGRAM GRADIO:

Toison

Belinont

Mohr

Congai

Callahan

Coarad

Deboach

Evons

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

: Trotter'

Tele: Room

Holmis

Gandr

E AIRCRAM

PAGE: TWO

URGENT NO. 412I FROM LEGAT MADRID

FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION TO EXPRESS CONDOLENCES AND INQUIRE

WHETHER SERVICES AS WITNESS MIGHT STILL BE REQUIRED ON BEING

TOLD THAT HIS SERVICES PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE REQUIRED HE

STATED WAS RETURNING TO FRANCE. GARCIA OBVIOUSLY HAS WANTED

TO TESTIFY AGAINST WAEGELL AS MEANS OF ENTERING UNITED STATES.

APPEARS UNSTABLE.. HE VOLUNTEERED NO INFORMATION TO LEGAT RE

ACQUAINTANCE OSWALD AND WAEGELL.

REPRESENTATIVE REUTERS NEWS

AGENCY REPORTED TO EMBASSY THAT ARTICLE TO APPEAR DECEMBER 7

ISSUE OF " TIEMPO", SPANISH LANGUAGE MAGAZINE PUBLISHED NEW

YORK, THAT ENRIQUE PASCUAL/RUEDOLO GONVORA (POSSIBLY PASCUAL

ENRIQUE-RUEDOLO GONGORA), 'CUBAN NATIONAL HAD BEEN DEPORTED

FROM UNITED STATES ON NÖVEMBER 23 LAST, WAS ARRESTED BY

SPANISH AUTHORITIES AND HAD ADMITTED PLANS TO ASSASSINATE

PRESIDENT KENNEDY. [COLONEL BLANCO, ABOVE, ADVISED TODAY

RUEDOLÒ DEPORTED NEW YORK FOR INVOLVEMENT UNKNOWN CRIMINAL

ACTIVITIES, SPANISH CONSUL IMPROPERLY GAVE HIM VISA TO ENTER

SPAIN. PLACED UNDER DETENTION ON ARRIVAL SPAIN NOVEMBER 29 :

LAST PENDING. ISSUANCE ENTRANCE PERMIT BY CUBAN CONSUL FOR

TRAVEL CUBA. CUBAN CONSUL, MADRID, AWAITING INSTRUCTION FROM

CUBA. BLANCO STATED NO CONNECTION RUEDOLO MATTER WITH ASSASS-

ASAERSATED

INATION BUT MAY HAVE GIVEN RISE TO RUMOR

BY CONSTANTINE BROWN.

RUC.

RECEIVED:

9:22 A.M.

CO-MIR. ROSEM

BRD CC: MY. BRENNAN

ML

SHELDON W. PARKS

no is in he disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

7TH 50953 DOrTd: 32195999

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

ENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL

REVIEW PROGRAM

Except pa. I # last"

534 73093

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Security

Russia - Cuba

1:105-020401A04

Reference is made to your memurandum of August 14,

1964, Subject as above, your file number (S) 105-82555, in

which

you requested that seven enclosed photographs be

shown

to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of hIM.

3nd AGEdaY FRAISIÓN

2: [VIADUCIwas interviewed on 9 September 1964 with

the following results.

3.

Unauthorized Disclosure

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

(1)

(2)

(3)

Photograph no. 1:

Nikolay SERGEYEV.- Source did not recognize the

face and had never heard the name.

Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA, nee ZUGOFF, formerly li

known as.

Anne t to GOLDSHTEYN (GOLDSTEIN) and

Annette Henkina (KHENKINA): Source recognizec

her immediately by face, giving the name Annette

KHENKINA, formerly Annette GOLDSHTEYN.

could not recall her maiden name but when offered

the name ZUGOFF he said this would be correct

as it is an Ossettian name and her father had

been Ossettian and her mother a Canadian.

Source's

additional informationX°Pthis

in paragraph & below.

Joseph ADAMOV:

Noc

- REC-

GOT S

Source recognized his photograph

immediately and provided the name correctly,

identifying him as his lono-time friend.

I SSA

Dallas

eSC/ 316/5/4V6-64

07

/4/3

790071414641

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excladed tram aulomatic

downgrading and

declassification

105-82550

H 50953 DorTА:32195999

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

(4)

Annabelle BUCAR: Source recognized her photo-

graph immediately and gave her name correctly. U5s

(5)

Serset RUDIN: Source recognized his photograph

ISource said he is a close

friend of Joe ADAMOV's. He is Jewish and was

originally from New York, but is now a Soviet

citizen, married

"to a Russian woman and father

of three or four children. He works in the

English language section of Radio Moscow.

. He

had formerly had

a very small flat of one or

two rooms, with which he was very unhappy, but

Radio Moscow got him an attractive and larger

flat in a building on Peschanaya Street.

(6)

1/5511

Lucy (Olga)/PRAVDINA: Source recognized her

photograph at once as the woman who had given

him English

'lessons in 1944 or 1945 when he wa.

briefly employed at Radio Moscow. He believed

her

name was Irina or something like that, and

she

had previously spent possibly ten or fifteen

years in

the United States with her husband who

had been a TASS man there.

Source could not

recall her last name (married name) but thought

it began with a "K"

• When Source first met her

she was a program director for Radio Moscow and

did some announcing.

He said she spoke excellent

English, was a good worker and well liked by her

colleagues.

He did not know

the names LUCY and

OLGA PRAVDINA, and was certain neither was her

actual name.

Photographs 2 and 3: Source recognized these as

Annette KHENKINA, of paragraph 3 (2) above.

5.

Photograph no. 4: Source recognized numer 1 as

the person identified

in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

Annette KHENKINA, Sergei RUDIMAN, and Joe ADAMOV.

He did

not recognize Nikolai SERGEYEV in this photograph.

Photograph no. 5:

Source recognized all persons

in this photo, as identified in paragraphs 3 (3), (2), (1),

and (5) above.

SECRET

2

HH 50953 DOCTO: 32195999

Page

---

## Page 8

SECRET

7.

Photograph no. 6: Source recognized number (1)

as

KHENKIN (first name not recalled), the second husband

of Annette GOLDSHTEYN KHENKINA, and number (2) as Annette

herself He knew that.

they had a son and assumed that the

child in this photo was that son, but he had never seen the

child. Source provided the same information on KHENKIN

He added to this that the apartment

building in the background of photograph number (3) is

the location of the apartment which KHENKIN was given after

he had written a letter to STALIN complaining of quarters

he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Union

in 1945 or 1946.

11551

8.

Photograph no. 7: Source recognized Annette

7264-V0

KHENKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

When number (4), Marina, was pointed out to him, he stated

that she was the right age to be Annette's daughter by her

first husband/GOLDSHTEYN?Source had seen her as a small

child, possibly about five or six years or age, in 1945.

He has never seen her since, knew nothing more about her,

and could not identify her photograph.

Source commented

that he had never met GOLDSHTEYN, Annette's first husband,

but knew that he was much older than she and he speculated

that the older man in this photograph might be Boris

GOLDSHTEYN Source gave the following additional information

on Boris GOLDSHTEYN:

He was some kind of engineer-technician,

not employed by Radio Moscow.

He did not approve of Annette's

working in the radio field, and disapproved of the people

she worked with there and the

general atmosphere of work,

Annette was already separated or divorced from GOLDSHTEYN

when Source first met her, sometime in 1944 or 1945. While

Annette was still married

to GOLDSHTEYN, she had an affair

with Joe ADAMOV.

9.

heard

the name.

had married for the third time, although he knew that she

no ring in

Regarding Lev or Leo SETYAEV, Source had never

He was not aware that Annette KHENKINA

was divorced from KHENKIN and that he was interested in

marrying a woman

who was an editor in a publishing

house.

10. Source had never heard of Lee Harvey OSWALD

prior to his defection, and had no information regarding

his participation in a

Radio Moscow interview in late

1959. He commented, however, that it was not unusual to

SECRET

3

NH 50953 DocId: 32195999 Page

8

---

