# 124-10073-10426

## Page 1

124-10073-10426.

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

221156

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10073-10426

RECORD SERIES:

MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-3702-1365

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG. MX

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 09/30/1969

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5617

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/08/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NH 50953 DocId:32144389 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO.

•DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT CRE

K 3/10/87

SEGRED

ASSAulfil Director, FBI (105-82555)

THose.

misin City (105-3702) (RUC)

Sept. 30, 1968

Mind

EXCREE WACRE SONN

MISINTO

980338

ON' OADR

=27-

Classified

Declassifv

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - RUSSIA - CUBA

Declassify on:

OADR

ReBulet 9/12/69 to Assistant Attorney General, Internal

Security Division, copies of which were forwarded to this office.

Enclosed herewith are two Xerox reproductions of the

Mexico City file coples of Mr. CHARLES THOMAN® memorandun dated

dated 15/27/ and 2/25and.

and the menoranda from this office to the Ambassador

Background

ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, OT MiaN GARRO AS MT. THOMAS calle

her, 19 a well known figure in Mexican political, social and

literary circles.

She was a playwright and well

known to many

officials of the Embassy including the then Ambador TULTON

FRESHAN, the then Deputy Chief of Mission CLARINCE A. BOONSTRA,

and many others.

All of thome officials expressed to, me on

various occasions the opinion that Mias GARIO 1s a very interesting

person and a scintillating conver ationalint, but that whe time a

vivid imagination and frequently appears to be saable to dietinmin

between truth and fiction.

Although Interenting, they all considero

her as highly unreliable as a source of information except for

Mr. THOMAS who apparently placed consistent crodence in what alas:

GARRO said.

When Misa GARRO vialted this offfee In November 1904, whe

claimed that she had seen Ll HARVEY OSVALD at a party siven at

the home of RUBEN DURAN on September 30, October her Osteter,

1963, as reported in Mexico, City letterhend Motorandu r 1711/64

As previously reported, Min CARRO clamed that his dlirhter..

SLENA PAL CARRO, who accompanled her at Cart prey.

not ter the:

irst time a young man later identified by bor m AlTO ALEJANe

LAVAGNINI STENIUS. Identification of this indivlaul, who hid

4 - Bureau (Enca.-6)

(1 - Liaison

Section)

1) - Mexico City

NLT /axO

(5)

alco

105-3702-136

INOLVED.

SCAFCHED-

SEJUALIZED

SECRET

NH 50953

DoeId: 32144389

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MEX 105-3702

who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a

responsibility for seeing it through to its final evaluation."

It appears, therefore, that Mr. THOMAS has now decided that he

and not the FBI or the Department of Justice is the one to

decide how the story given by Miss GARRO is to be evaluated.

The concept that every person who passes on to another govern-

ment agency information relating to matters within the jurisdiction

of that agency has the responsibility and authority to review

and evaluate the action taken by that agency is, of course,

untenable.

Further question concerning Mr. THOMAS' judgment is

raised by item 3 of paragraph 10 of his memorandum furnished to

the Secretary of State.

Any reference to the

relationship between the head of CIA Mexico afa top Mexican

officials, if true, is a very highly classified matter and any

"leak" or

revelation to unauthorized individuals concerning such

an arrangement would, in view of the delicate Mexican political

situation, be disastrous to the Mexican Government as well as

to Mexican-American relations.

The delicacy of the situation

has recently been greatly augmented by the published Cuban

allegation that one of the officers of the Mexican Embassy in

Havana was

acting as a

CIA spy with the knowledge of the Mexican

Government

* Mr. THOMAS, however,

included such a highly

classified reference in

a memorandum which he classified only

as "confidential"

contrary to regulations relative to classification

of documents.

While this reference relates to the activities and

operations of another Government agency and therefore is not of

primary concern to the Bureau, it is nevertheless called to the

surrent attentions. (e)

consideration in evaluating Mr. THOMAS

An additional copy of this letter is being forwarded

for, use in the event the Bureau desires to forward a copy to

Dallas which received a copy of referenced letter.

SECRET

Ez-s 51774

:

NH 50953

Doeld:32144389

Page 3

---

