# 124-10217-10489

## Page 1

124-10217-10489

• JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10217-10489

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-114543-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/19/1963

1

JURE, ACA, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

N9.1

50953 DocId:32296713

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

EPORT

INTRAL INTELLIGENCE AL

LION-REPORT

This material containa informition affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meantrg of the Esplonage Laws, TItle

18, U.8.O, Sece. 793 and 79%, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CAN MAS NO DRUEUS

- C-R-E-T

DEOLASSACATION MA

REIGN DISSEM

19929

LADE GOA

COUNTRY

THAN COCKI

8. EXCEPT FOR BRACE TRI NO.

5m 6-25-97(540 K58-8-2-97

SUBJECT

Plans of the Junta Revolucionaria, DATE DISTR.

-3/537,837*

JFK

February 1963

an Anti-Castro Organization, for

Internal Resistance

NO. PAGES

1

PRETE. OF

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE:

REFERENCES

-RD

-W- 2107

MAL FOI NNFOMERTION CONTAINS

Early January 1963

NEERS GKA

DATE /0X 13-CILBT

JFK

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS

UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL. OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

regular who was quoting Manolo Ray."

from "a source described as (S)

Appraisal of Content:

I. In early January 1963 Manolo Ray, former leader of the Cuban

group,

People's 'Revolutionary Movement) and now head of the

Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo Mounts

RevoLucionaria (JURE: Revolutionary Junta), stated that the

JURE iS

now concentrating its efforts on organizing

internal resistance in Cuba.

2.

According to Ray, the JURE controls the following groups

with forces inside Cuba:

the MRP, the 30th of November

Revolutionary Movement, Federacion Estudiantil Univer-

sitaria (FEU, University Students' Federation). Accion

Cristiana (AC, Christian Action) and the Movimiento de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria Cubana (MRRC, Cubar

Revolutionary Recovery Movement).

• Present plans are

limited, first of ali, to rebuilding these resistance.

forces which have now nearly recovered from the losses

1961 Bahia de Cochinos

invasion; and secondly, to establishing contact with

noh Communists in Cuba

persuading them to réject

the Castro regime and to aid the resistance movement

Ray added that

no date will be set for starting the

operations until sufficient resources are

available

permit sustained. action.

A tentative estimate is that

another three months will be required to collect the

necessary resources.

REC- 61

1 105-1145-435

1.

Headquarters Comment.

It is doubtful that Ray "controls"

all these organizations, although some members from them

have probably joined ExORE.

• 10 MAR

NHY 50953

: DocId: 32296713

Paste 12

DINA

---

## Page 3

INTRAL INTELLIGENCE AL

This material contains information aflecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18, U.S.O. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

HAS

HE-C-R-E-T

REIGN DISSEM

DECLAS

199%

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba fat

EXCEPT FOR BRACKE DRI NO.

5m 6-25-97

-3/537,837

(540)K5P2-8-2-97-96K

Plans of the Junta Revolucionaria,DATE DISTR.

February 1963

an Anti-Castro Organization, for

Internal Resistance

REFERENCES

RD

-W- 2107

DATE OF

NFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

Early

January. 1963

ALI. FEI INFOIMATION COR

MERED IS UNCHAS FIL

ATE LET AL

JFK) FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL. OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

from "a source described as (5)

regular wno was quoting Manolo Ray."

Appraisal of Content:

1. In early January 1963 Manolo Ray, former leader of the Cuban

exile group, Movimiento Revolucionario

del Pueblo MR,

People's Revolutionary Movement) and now head of the

RevoLucIonaria (cURE, Revolutionary Junta),

stated that the

JURE is now concentrating its efforts on organizing

internal resistance in Cuba.

According to Ray, the JURE controls the following groups

with forces inside Cuba:

30th of November

Revolutionary Movement,

Federacion Estudiantil Univer

University Students? Federation), Accion

sitaria (FAC, Christian Action) and the Movimiento de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria Cubang (MRRC, Cuban

Revolutionary Recovery

Present plans are

limited, first of all, to rebuilding these resistance

forces which have now nearly recovered from the losses

sustained during the April 1961 Bahia de Cochinos

invasion, and secondly, to establishing contact with

non-Communists in Cuba

and persuading them to reject

the Castro regime and to aid the resistance movement

Ray added that no date will be set for starting the

operations until sufficient resources are

available to

permit sustained action.

A tentative estimate

is that

another three months will be required to collect the

necessary resources.

REC- 61

105-114543-13

Headquarters Comment.

doubtful that Ray "controls"

organizations,

although

some members from them

have probably Joined ExCaRE.

SECRETT

10 MAR

6.

196.

I ARMY

X|-NAVY

TREASURN:

Note: Washington cistri

TOMATION

ARE

ICC - MiNni, SAN Jurin

KHN/St 3-7- 63

105-1145443

---

