# 124-90146-10104

## Page 1

124-90146-10104|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90146-10104

HQ

105-93072-109, 110, IST NR 110

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/25/1964

12

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS: Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: INC NEWS ARTICLE, 2 MEMO, LHM

v9.1

NH 50953 DocId: 32339272

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORMATION SHKIT (JFK HATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

one or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[] Subsection IC (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2 (living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[]

Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[ ]

Subsection 5

security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

It For your information: NBR

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

105.93022-109,110, Ist NR 110

XXXXXXXXXX

2000a

X000000

X00o00d000

NH 50953 DocId: 32339272 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET.

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-434819) CONFENTIAL

11/4/64

SAC,

NEW YORK (100-144189) ArT

"TOR CONTATMED

FORCIN TO USCUAOSITTID EXCEPT

ASSOCIATES INCORPORATEO

FREEDONWAYS

IS-C

(00: 17)

On 10/18/64, NK

of material maintained

324f-S* made available photographs

au the office of Freedomways Associater

Incorporated, 799 Broadway, NYC. Included were photographs

of the following letters;

A letter dated 3/28/64 from JOMN HENRIK CLARK

Associate Editor "Freedomways" magazine addressed to JULIAI

MAYFIELD In Accra, Ghana, in which he comments that he kno

that MAYFIELD had met MAX and JEAN BOND, whom he felt coul/

of assistance to MAYPIELD.

RIATE AGEE

Later in the letter CLARKE comments that, undoubtedly

MAYFIELD already knows that RICHARD GIBSON has been exposed

a CIA agent.

CLARKE! said that GIBSON was the one who was,

so: "'friendly' with us" adding "I know now that it was he

pointed the finger at me and had

the any breating down mytho

neck for over a year.

Now where does this situation put

DAN WATTS? In many ways they were peas in the pot"

A letter dated 9/15/64, addressed to Mrs. MAX

In this letter CLARKE stated that both he and

were pleased to know that she and MAX are impressed with Chana

and that ESTHER (probably

ESTHER JACKSON) had written to her

last week.

He said that they would be sending her

books

review

-Buceau

(RH) (Encis.

(V Du rite 105-93072 RICHARD GIBSON JONESY

OrING

I-New Yorks

el by 5667 ChaCAT

1-New

(97- 2204)

(JOHN. CLARKE)

DADR

York

100- 150880)

1 - New

• Yorke

100-120145

(TUTTAN MAYPTELD)

(43)

91-New York

105: 442387

ADVISI

SIP

I-New

• York

(100-18618)

RICHARD GIBSON)

(43)

n{l-New York

105-40092

AFRICAN ACTIVITIES

IN

THE US )

(ESTHER JACKSON)

] - New

York

JFO: far

(10)

Cre / 259/on 3-15-78

ENCLOSI

decided

1105-930,

NOT RECORDED

128 NOV 9

1964

F9DEC 4-1964 F88

CONF

INMAL CLI

IT 50953

DonTd: 32339272

Page 3

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 4

NY 100-144189

CONr.X

ENTIAL

It is believed that the MAX and JEAN BOND referred

to by CLARKE are JEAN CAREY BOND, the niece of BENJAMIN J. DAVI

and her husband MAX BOND,_the son of J. MAX BOND, who 19 an

education advisor with A.I.D., Blantyre, Nyasaland, Africa.

It is also noted that investigations have been conducted on

JANE BOND HOWARD, the daughter of J:

MAX BOND and the subject

of Bureau file 100-425701, NY file 100-130493. This information

has been reported in the investigations of J.

15 the subject of NY file 140-7045 and 124-4755.

55 С (u)

who

It tangoted further that JEAN is the daughter of

RICHARD M

and 100-125276.

JOHNNIE CARBY, subjectsof Ny files 100-142798

The information concerning CLARKE's statement

on RICHARD GIBSON is not being reported in the LHM because

Ny has no information concerning the use of GIBSON by the

CIA and it is felt that this information could be given to

the CIA by the Bureau without

setting it forth for general

distribution in a letterhead

The source used in

the

characterization of JOHN CLARKE

is NY 4535-S* and the source used in the characterization

of JULIAN MAYFIELD 1s SJ 233S.

NY 1869-s* was used to

characterize JEAN CAREY BOND. U

This LHN Is classified "Confidential" because it

contains information from the sources used,

the unauthorized

disclosure of which could be detrimental to the defense

interests of the US and result in the loss of sources of

value.

There is enclosed for the Bureau 9o copies

of an IHM containing information set forth in the two

letters from CLARKE as well as copies of the lettes themselves

so. 2 c

SO CONFIDENTIAL

ТАЛОЕЗ

7H 50953 100ТА: 32339972

Page 1

---

## Page 5

RONITE-OF

ELD OFTI

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

'ED STATES DEPLRTMENT ON

USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

November 4,1964

Bureau Flle 100-434819

CONFI

ENTIAL

Freedomways Associates Incorporated

Internal security - C

A contidential source recently furnished information

estheting tnat in August 1964, John Henrik Clarke, the

Associate Editor of "Freedomways" magazine contacted Julian

Mayfield of "The African Review"

• Post Office Box 2052,

Clarke notified Mayfield that

Ahme a reneed interest in te nottine both in the united

States and other places.

"o said that a group in Japan called

"The Association Of Negro Scudzee"

was reprinting one of its

articles and that another article he had written for "Freedomways"

would appear in Clarke's book "Harlem)

USA" which would be

published in Germany in October 1964.

(u)

Clarke stated that, undoubtedly, Mayfield had met

Max and Jean Bond,

that Jean

could be of great help to him

in proofreading and organizing materials, and that Max could

be of assistance in translating French material.

He said that

Jean Bond could write well and had written

number of very

searching book reviews for "Freedomways"

Clarke also indicated that Mayfield had been in

London, England and said that he knew all of the writers whom

Mayfield met In London. He mentioned specifically that C.L R-

James had written a fine article for their Caribbean issue. &(U)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; 1t and its contents are, not to be distributed

outside your

100 8:5668 CHa GAT

(J7K)

Dato c: 2

lassiE

GIOT

UP I

Excluded

rom automatic

downgrad

ng and

declassification

105-93077

ENCLOSURE

ADVISI

SL.]

7H 50953 DooTd: 32339272

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONFT

INTIAL

Freedomways Associates Incorporatea

A characterization of Fresdomways

Associates Incorporated appears

In the appendix attached hereto. U

On Augus: 14, 1964, a confidential

source nade available Information i

reflecting tha? Jonn Henrik Clarke

of "Fres ionways"

magazine is an

"assoctate" or the Americar institute

• for Marcist Studies (AIMS):

A characterization of AIMS is

foruh in the appendix attached hereto. u

A confidential source advised on

September 20, 1955, that he nad

received Information that three

leaders of the Partido Comunista

Puertorriqueno (PCP) (Communist

Party of Puerto Rico, had visited in

Naranjito, Puerto Rico, where they

talked to

Mayfield's wife.

During

the discussion between the three

leaders and Ana Livia Cordero, Mayfield's

wife, Julian Mayfield was mentioned as

a potential recruit for a new PCP club

Naran jito

which was

• to be formed

subsequent to instant date. A

A confidentlal source eduined on

Jonuer 3, 1963, that C.lroRo seous

was residing t London, England.

A confidentlal source advised on August

1, 1958, that, Janes was one of the

co-founders of the Johnson Forest

Group (JEG) who, in 1953, was deported

from the United

States as an undesirable

allen. U

CONFIDNTIAI

-2 a

HH 50953 DocId:32339272 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFI

ANITAI

Freedomways Asscciates Incorporated

The JFG has been designased pursuant.

to executive order 10450. u

The first confidentlal source also furnished Information

reflecting that cn september 15, 1964, John Clarke contacted

Mrs. Max Bond, care of the

Ghana Nanional Construction

Corporation, Heas Offico Annex, Post Office Box 136, Accra,

clarke told her that he and his wife were

pleased to know that she and Max are impressed with Ghana

and that their stoy there will be a rewarding experience.

He told her that he agreed

1964 Issue of "Prusdomways" Ith her evaluation of the spring

and said that ne had sent her

the Caribbean Issue.

Clarke told her shat they missed the

both of them but are happy

that "you are serving the cause

in the motheriand. "

# confidential source furnished information

on October 26, 1960, reflecting that Jean

Carey 1s the niece of Benjamin J. Davis. U

"The Worker"

•an Fast Coast Communist newspaper,

August 25, 1964, commented on the death

of BenJanin I. Davis on August 22, In the

states that he held "high offices

Communist Party, USA, was re-elected to the

Party's National Committee at the Party's

17th National Convention,

and was elected

to the Executive Board,

to the national

Secretariat and post of National Secretary

by the National Committee. U

Max Bond is the son of J. Max Bond

an

education advisor with U.S. A.I.D.

In Blantyre, Nvasaland, Africa U

CONFI

HIAT

in 3 mi

• HH 50953

DocId:32339272

Page 7

---

## Page 8

C CONSENTAL

Freedomweys Associates Incorporated

1.

APPENDIX

AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR MARXIST STUDIES

A source advised on

April 9, 1963, that on

April 7, 1963

• District

Committee

of the

communist amy, united states of America (CP,

USA)

of New England, held in Boston, Massachusetts,

HERBERT

APTHEKER stated

he was developing an organization called

American Institute For Marxist Studies (AIMS), which

would eventually legalize the CP.

He stated AIMS would

publish literature on History,.

Science, Physics, Archeology

and other subjectswhich would

be put out quarterly with

various supplements'

A second source advised in December, 1959, that

HERBERT APTHEKER was elected to the National Committee,

CP, USA, at the 17th National Convention of the CP, USA,

held in December, 1959.

A third source advised on June 7, 1963, that on

June 3, 1963, HERBERT APTHEKER spoke at the Ci, USA, New

York District Board meeting concerning AIMS. APTHEKER

stated that AIMS would unite and strengthen the CP

although the CP would not be connected with it.

He stated

AIMS was being formed to operate within the scope of the

MC CARRAN and SMITH Acts and would legally bring Marxist

material and opinions to the attention of American

scholars and the general public.

A fourth source advised on May 15, 1964, that,

as of that date, AIMS was located on the fifth floor west

at 20 East 30th Street, New York City, New York.

COM ANAL

NH 50953 DocId: 32339272 Page 8

---

## Page 9

C CON MAL

1.

APPENDIX

FREEDOMWAYS ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED

The records of the New York Secretary of State,

Albany, New York, show that the certificate of incorporation

of Freedomways Associates, Incorporated, was filed on March 2,

1961.

Spring, 1964, issue of "Freedomways" is self-

described as "A Quarterly Review of the Negro freedom nova-

ment" published by Freedomways Associates, Incorporated,

799 Broadway, New York City.

was given on yetormays" a source advised that a report

at a meeting of the National

Board, Communist Party, USA (CPUSA), held on May 24, 1961.

It was stated that the original pian called for the

publication to be openly Marzist, but that it was later

decided it would not be avowedly

a Marxist publication.

Editorials are in the hands of a mixed group of Marxists

and non-Marxists.

It was stated that the central purpose

of "Freedomways"

1s to develop a theory and positive

criticism of currents in the Negro movement, as

well as

to raise the level of understanding and discussion taking

place In Negro life today and to project a socialist

and

pro-soviet orientation..

On

May 25, 1961, another source advised that

"'Freedomways" was set up for the CPUSA by JAMES JACKSON,

a member of the National Committee of the CPUSA.

CONTICNTIAL

- 5-

NH 50953 DocId: 32339272 Page 9

---

## Page 10

U

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

*ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

November 4,1904

Bureau File 100-434819

Title

Freedonways Associates Incorporated

Character Internal security - C

Reference is made to the New York memorandum

dased and captionad as above.

All sounces (except any listed below whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have

furnished

reliable information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

NH 50953

DocId:32339272 Page 10

---

## Page 11

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES G.

"ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

419075

Director, FaI (105-9306l

DATE: 10-29-64

FROM

Legat, Paris (105-1270) (P.)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPLA

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE:

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

Re Paris letter 8-25-64.

Captioned matter was further discussed with

I on 10-27-64.

He advised

that CIA at the present time has no particular interest

in GIBSON and has no plan to interview him or to establish

contact with him. He stated that in the event the Bureau

would have no objection and would be interested in knowing

the outcome. I told him that we have no plans along these

lines at the present time and that we are mainly interested

in keeping track of GIBSON's activities and knowing if and

when he returns to the United States.

stated that

it is his impression that GIBSON is no longer connected

*lt the roy on under col go magazine "Revolution"

Referenced Paris letter indicated that the Direction

de la Surveillance du Territoire (DST), French domestic

counterespionage service, is now interested in GIBSON, and

they have been requested

to furnish us with up-to-date

information regarding his present employment, residence,

and activities.

We are continuing to follow

this with the

DST and will furnish the Bureau with any information

received from that source.

APP

170 I

ADVISOD

SITP

TATE AGSI

3

- Bureau

that

Paris

NWP : HD

4)

Copy to.

by routing

alip for

I Into

date...

begg

(1 - Liaison

Section)

12226

Classified by 0

MACKAT

Declassily on:

OA28

ore

5 UIA

(ПК)

REG- 56

8x100

SECREY

7136°

66 NOV 101964

V0

AS8//32

1 05-93072-110

INOV 21904

ANC

NAT. I

HTH 50953 DorTO: 32339272

Page 11

---

## Page 12

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy,

Paris 8, France

ARC INFORIMATION CONTANES

HEREIN IS UPCLASSIFIED. EXCEPA

WHERE SHCSK OTHERWISE

Date:

August 25, 1964

To:

From:

Director, FBI (105-93072)

Legat, Paris (105-1270) (P)

Subject:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

4-

Re Paris letter 6/17/64. 4

This is to advise that I was contacted by

on August 20, 1964. He advised that

his office received an inquiry from the Direction de la

Surveillance du Territoire (DST), French domestic counter-

espionage service, in July 1964 regarding GIBSON. He advised

that they have very little information in their files other

than that which has been furnished by this office.:, It was

agreed that we would furnish information directly to the DST

since all of the information originated with the Bureau.

advised that they have thus far taken no

steps to contact GIBSON or to attempt to develop him as a

source of information. He stated that he is contacting his

headquarters to determine what the desires of his headquarters

are in this regard.

stated that it is his impression

that GIBSON is no longer employed by the pro-Communist Chinese

magazine

"Revolution" but that he is still residing in Paris.

He stated that he will advise us in the near future as to

whether or not they still have an interest in the subject

and as to whether

they intend to

take any action with regard

to him.

12/23184

Classified

' SOB MEC/GA FEE-

3

- Bureau

B951)

93077.

(1 - Liaison)

(iS)

INOV

- Paris

TWP: 1j

(4)

SAUG 31 1964

SURE

bir pouties slip for

Dritte

Taction

8-61

54 SEP 9

196

by

NAI.

ATHT

50953

DoCT: 32339272

Page 12

---

## Page 13

T31012

Paris 105-1270

The summary of information from the paris filo

was furnished to the DST on August 25, 1964.

The DST is

being requested to furnish us with any information in their

possession and to ascertain if he is presently employed

by "Revolution."

SECRET

There is enclosed for the information of the Bureau

a copy of an item which appeared in the "New York Herald

Tribune," Paris edition

dated June 25, 1964.

SECRET/

T39328

NH 50953 DocId: 32339272 Page 13

---

## Page 14

*aros Book

In the Herald Thiene:

Eleanor

Dienstars

intersting

#ticle. of Jime 18, 'uncerning Fide:

d'Estro's

torthcomig book

un the

trat lon sear of the Cubnn reyn.

mull, ta quite arcurate in mosy

nints

Bụt it is not true that the idea

book

origntrd

with the

C 122111

ranbassy

ins

Rome,

which

moathed

the itarth tild

Lane Pettrnell.

Fade: Onita, 1149

Is jenised

cost It

ment ira Carlos,

editor-ill-rhavi

sio

Frumour even

macks

cullert

i, Fle.

completed-ald they vere printed

Is Exalet

irreploma-

• ber 1583 double issue of

tion,"

niernationa!

montle;

waolisie."

Puris.

Siurti

these

* Ita: ind

aid arrass will

I HARD GOIN

18/23/74

EXSOS MACGAT

(JFK

"New York Herald Tribune'

Padis, France

6/25/64

93077-109

ENCLOSURE

NH 50953 DocId: 32339272 Page 14

---

