# 144-10001-10161

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598281

DATE: 12/10/91

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10161

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

SSCI

FROM

TO

TITLE

HSCA REQUEST FOR NSA INFO ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

PAGES : 03/24/78

SUBJECTS.

RE WHAT NSĂ HAS FOUND RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : NOTE

•LASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/12/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Đốc ID: 65982

ALTION ASSICNMENT REC

rise

Soli

200г

This fil is asier it him been gone the

mong times to

CONTROL NO.

tongs woud for it

47-78

capitals

OSD

on Assassinali

SUSPENSE DATE

SpC

ASSt

77-78

" TO

NSA

CORRESPONDENCE DATED

24 Gigi: 19,82

phone call 15 March 1978

SUBJ/BRIEF SUMMARY OF:

(Incl. List Incls)

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(v)

•FECA Request for NSA Info on Kennedy Assassination

DATE

= 41

M57Ch 1978

ROUTING/COMMENTS BY ACTION ASSIGNEE

ACTION ASSIGNED TO

Sam

IN TURN

ROUTE TO

ORG.

INITIALS

DATE.

BY

Frank

1.

2.

INTERIM

REPLY

COMMENTS

FINAL REPLY

3. •

15 May 78

(for

-

additional info see HSCA-1

action

82-77.)

Judy Miller of SpecAsst to SecDef Off called LAO for info

to respond to the HSCA's ltr to the White House requesting

info which they asked from NSA bac, in Dec 77.

She said

SecDef had directed that office fin lieu of GC) to respond

to responses from that Committee..

She also said the sec

was going to reply in the negative.

Rovd (via LDX) cy of Spec Assistant (Kester) memo to D/SecDeE

proposing course of action.

ACTION OFFICE COMMENTS

ANSWERED BY (mse cito or serial)

(date)

amiestigation.

FORM ASGATREV OCT 63 (Supersedes: A6647 MAY 63 TEMP which is obsolete)

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

respo

aling to. dys ise grend

Sang- thems pent

#aug-recide reg fom Judy Mille ne 16 Qug the fin Blak

to JDET cancerning dacunt inhich refers to Tester

22 Qua

ey saying i

---

## Page 4

ADIN

DOC IRCTION ASSIGNMENT REC

TO

11. 1908

CONTROL NO.

SUSPENSE DATE

1191° 457-28% (contain for ei

contamara

CORRESPONDENCE DATED

SUBJ/BRIEF SUMMARY OF: (Inci. List Incis)

DATE

BY

ROUTING/COMMENTS BY ACTION ASSIGNEE

ACTION ASSIGNED TO

IN TURN

1.

ORG.

ROUTE TO

INITIALS

DATE

INTERIM REPLY

FINAL REPLY

3.

gust lie ous deaft on 25 lug and ade has not herceived

any feedbact on letter.

20 Act - 6C seterst called the mill a explained to her that

They agred NSA take no Action.

afanz?=

ASCA went out of bus rise and of 95d Canglead.

FORM A6647 REV OCT 63 (Supersedes A6647 MAY 63 TEMP which is obsolete)

---

