# 144-10001-10077

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598182

TOP

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD NUMBER

AGINER ISA

144-10001-10077

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

UMB

DATE: 03/26/97

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCO PLUS

-ER]

TITLE

3/0/MINT-QOU/TI785-63:

PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION A ZIONIST

PAGES: 12/05/63

SUBJECTS :

PALESTINIANS, REACTION TO. ASSASSINATION

iRt

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/10/93

- - -----

----.

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

ER1

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

Ib (iii)

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

--------------__-__———

IRI = ITEM IS RESTRICTED

--------------

JOP SECULT

UMBRA

---

## Page 2

• Doc ID: 6598182

TOP SECRET DINAR

MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED WITHOUT PRIOR NSA APPROVAL

WS 7114

3/0/MINT-QOU/T1785-63

IS 2 DEC 63 P

Dist: HCO Plus

PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION A ZIONIST CONSPIRACY

25 NOv 63

MSg NI:

The assassination.of the great President KENNEDY was a shock

to Palestinians.

Please, convey our sincere sympathy to the KENNEDY

family and to the people of the United States.

Behind the mysterious crime, is a carefully plotted Zionist

conspiracy. Review of the secret and overt Zionist criminal conspira-

cies against Lord MOWEEN BERNANDOTTE, the Egyptian and German

scientists, as well as the terrorist method adopted in kidnaping

EICHMAN and many others, provides the evidence to question the

position of their secret organizations.. The late President was likely

to win the coming presidency elections without supplicating the

Zionist sympathy or seeking the Jews votes. Aware of the fact that

their influence and power in the United States are based upon the

Jews votes, the Zionists murdered the courageous President who was

about to destroy that legend of theirs. His assassination is a warning

to the rest of the honorable leaders.

Reveal their conspiracy to the supreme judgement of the world.

Be careful, you are the hope of the Palestinians.

Palestinians.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

MS

974

TI

--

3/0/MINT-QOU/T1785-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

