# 144-10001-10180

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598258

DATE: 10/05/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10180

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO : FBI, KERNS

DANIEL SILVER, GC

TITLE

GC/335/78 REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

DATE :

09/07/78

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

KNOWLEDGE OF DAVID CHRISTENSEN IN JFK ASSASS

HANDWRITTEN LETTER FROM CHRISTENSEN AND TYPE TRANSLATION

DOCUMENT. TYPE:

MEMORANDUM, LETTER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

X

09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598258

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: GC/335/78

7 September 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ATTN: Mr. Arthur Kerns,. Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Reguest for Information

1.

Attached is correspondence which Lt Col Paul T. Fisher,

Chief, Security Police, U.S. Air Force Security Service, has re-

quested this Agency to bring to the attention of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation.

The materials consist of a letter written by one

David Christensen, a former U.S. Air Force Security Service member,

to a former colleague of Mr. Christensen's who passed it on to the

Air Force Security Service.

Also enclosed is Lt Col. Fisher's cover

letter to Mr. James Leer of this Agency•

Finally, since the photo-

copy of Mr. Christensen's handwritten letter is difficult to read,

a typewritten copy

has been prepared for your convenience.

2. The classification markings on the handwritten letter

were applied by the Air Force Security Service.

The typewritten

version has been classified CONFIDENTIAI HVCCO, the highest level

affixed to the handwritten letter.

3.

Should you feel it appropriate to disseminate the enclosed

materials to any Committee of the

Congress, I would ask that you do

so only to members or to staffers who have

appropriate SI clear-

The information contained in Mr. Christensen's letter

that the Air Force Security Service was

intercepting

_communications at Kirknewton, Scotland during 1963 is

correct, as is the assertion that that station monitored communi-

cations

links between.

SILVE

General Counsel

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

3 Encls:

a/s

TAL

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

Citied is DIaSA/CHUSS INSA/CSSM 1232}

HANDLE ISA

---

## Page 3

Doc. ID: 6598258

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE SECURITY SERVICE

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78243

2 JUN 1973

DirNSA/M5 (Mr Lear)

Ft George G Meade, MD 20755 •

Dear Jim

I am forwarding a letter from a former Security Service member to you.

It was furnished to us by the recipient, through his commander, at one

of our subordinate units.

noter realizing t commander to sun it over to vis ste in morately

believing they would contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation,

since the writer is a civilian now.

Yesterday, this office was contacted by an OSI agent at Lowry AFB, CO;

this agent happens to be an ex-Security Service man.

He was instructed

by his headquarters to interview the writer of the letter to determine

the names of other individuals he had contacted.

Apparently Mr. Christen-

sen has a long history of alcoholism, family problems and now wants to

see a "cleared psychiatrist" as he attributes all of his problems from

Oct 1963, per the OSI agent. In addition, he has indicated to the OSI

that he now fears for his life.

I am furnishing this to you as I feel the implication in the letter

should best be handled at the national level and that you are in the

best position to contact the Bureau.

I have no knowledge that os1 has

not done this, but in view of the fact the subject was interviewed as

a civilian by an AF agent, rather than an FBI agent, leads me to doubt

this.

In addition, you are in a much better position to determine where

the nearest psychiatrist, with access, is located. For your information,

we placed the classification markings on the letter.

We were told by Mr. Coombs, the OSI agent at OSI District 14, that the

doctor to contact at the VA hospital in Cheyenne, WY is a Dr Sedel,

commercial telephone number 778-7550, extension 273.

warm regards

PAUL

T.

FISHER, It Col, USAF

Chief, Sécurity Police

BRAM REL

FUT

1 Atch

Ltr (Christensen) (C-HVCCO)

CLASSIFIED BY DOD Dir S-5200.17 (M-2)

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEGULE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652

EXEMPTION CATEGORY

assify oN natiticatton by originator

XIAN ATCH ARE REMOVRO, REGRADE TO LOLIC

DECLARASY AMET ATCH ARE REMONED. ANO DECIAL HANDLINE

CADÁiT IS PAISICALLY RAMOVED.

---

## Page 4

Dốc ID: 6598258

Біл!

Thenta 207. 82801

Trick

well furias grand

Ginal tene

miles hait, 2.

a long line

Кими

fron

млет

albinson Sepas

Nick,

Ket pereof

Midel abriet

chilen

22ee0

ricie,

chada minis fich

lo penen te inny la

setterd en el he

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6598258.

ARGE

won arking with the net,

кёр 203 претву 6 703 0 wher

the hell s 7,

1 age bens

The lill pusy.

what this gout

lize clastical,

so dont get all

shit shork

I've done cheched tant

Let pectio

108

71:

of stant:

ruck

Іра літи

7 our

Can a 710% ti

---

## Page 6

Đoc 10: 6598238

a cuties branchi

eat the times

сил,

I let you se suckl

the for prat it

chan

The is here tha 203" sags

I should be petting de sevie

коми

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

woef that thes

онии

Silengi

a practice mine.

Notic

Pietien

the 302 said,)

al we puts when the frien

Pete a

1797

COMINT CHA

---

## Page 7

Dọc 1D: 6598258

TING

und seal.

jail

he sistery

you best no do realf you shouted

hisable to i Sither

to help.

Писем лон

at good

from no Dah.

/2cck1

the the lo

and ulf let the with lesliet young

Be a mista

Then a duce

Also cheque

genesi

i man

an I can NOT ASSIFIED

---

## Page 8

Doc IĐ: 6598258

What in the hell are you

clou

lude any hire?

put amphostion

me rest chillerin

notize

майа

-210.

4K on sign

you tel bully bion.

the Bikly Bar

Daved 7 Christensin

INDI ASSIFIED

---

## Page 9

Doc-ID: 6598258

COPY

ONFIDENCAL

David F. Christiansen

V.A. Hospital

Sheridan, WY

82801

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

Nick,

Well after 13 1/2 years I finally found out your whereabouts; Dam, its

been a long time since Kirknewton, Scotland, and the beer we drank on the

beach

and the

club. Had to get your address from the outfit in Texas.

Nick, whatever happened to Sgt Prater? If you know his whereabouts please

send me his address.

How in the hell have you been doing?

Nick, I had a nervous breakdown. Plus in. 74 my leg shattered in over a

hundred places.

Things have really gone to hell for me. I'm working with

the vets benefits counseler, who is a ex.203.

Speaking of 203's where the hell

is Frenchy? You know the little guy. What I'm going to say is no longer

classified, so don't get all shit shook. I"ve done checked it out.

Christ, you remember the position I worked at, in Sgt Praters section, don't

you?

You remember about a month or 6 weeks before I left Scotland, when I picked

to selin mentionin and cause of to fucker demeaned ye aug here ey beden e

send it to NSA. Since I have learned that the man's name, most mentioned was

number 4 in a certain branch of organized crime at the time.

Was number 2 last

year.

I will send you a form for proof of claim. This guy here "the 203" says

I should be getting a service connected disability for my nerves. The "link was"

link. Have learned that this branch of crime often will put out a feeler of

forthcoming things. By sending it as a practice message.

Nick it really broke me up after Nov. 22, 63. Especially when I had it all

before hand. It was first like the 202's said, Ha. I was nuts when the Russians

first came out with the ITI & B's. Later proved them wrong didn't I. That was

another first for us as

I recall.

Duane Bruntz from Baker trick put up a good

support of my claim.

I'm sending you this certified so to make sure you get it.

As I recall you should be able to B.S. them good enough to help me. I know it

cost me a divorce and every thing from my wife. Christ, you remember Marlene,

don't you? That good looking little 1/2 Indian girl from N. Dak. Nick when

you get this form send it back to me and I'll let the vets benefits guy to send

it in. Being a M.Sgt I think you know how to bull shit pretty good. Also do

you know Sgt Harley and Sgt Willy Hendrickson's address. I guess old Garnett K.

Tatum retired. Wonder what gehto, he is living in, Ha!

Classified by DIANSA/CHICOS (M5A/C556

Exempt from CDS, ED 11652, Cat---

123-2;

Mansity Upon Notification ky the Originator

TANDLE WA COMINI CA

NELS ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

Dọc 1D 659928

• CONFIDENTIAL

What in the hell are you doing in Florida, any how? Be sure to put

emphasis on my nerves going to hell and not giving a shit about my work after

the interception of the message.

Y Y Prosign

Your old buddy from the Berkely Bar.

David F. Christensen

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

---

