# 144-10001-10320

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598338

-TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10320

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

HCF

TITLE.

3/01

VT3652-63

I MOURNS

www..11.11

......- -

DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

ALE : 12/09/6.

AGES

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DASSYFICATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

"Doc ID: 6598338

TOP SECRET DINAR

::::

WS 30818

3/01_

/T3652-63

IS 09 Dec 2155Z P

Dist: HCF

: ST : 3,00

MOURNS -DEATH - OF -PRESIDENT - KENNEDY.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(iii)

-25 Nov

The dramatic

Of KENNEDY (B val made: an immense

melon in a cause posing eat testines in

uniform, went to sign the register displayed in' the American

Embassy. Many, expecially women, carried: bouquets of flowers

which they left at the foot of the table

the big

register.

The procession, which started again today, lasted yester-

day and the day before yesterday froti the early hours of the

morning until around midnight.

Radio, television, and the press gave lengthy comments

on the late president, reporting his biography and stressing

his intellectual qualities, poisé,' and courage, not hiding the

will be represented at the

funeral by'

_ Vice Chairman of the

and:

(B val

, Vice Chair-

man of-the

while Prime Minister

accomnanied by l

Twent to the United States Embassy in

to present the condolences of the L

Government. As

for the

inmediately on Friday even-

ing, as

soon as I heard the news, I telegraphed the United States

Ambassador

to express my profound condolences and those of all

my associates.

_ Saturday morning in addition I sent to

Ambassador CABOT a letter of condolence expressing the same

sentiments. Today I shall attend in the cathedral with all the

3/0/

T3652-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598338

--

TOP SECRET DINAR

3/0/

/T3652-63

other embassy personnel the funeral mass in memory of the late

president.

Along with the other Western representatives, I

had the flag flown at half mast.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

SC2107(0)(7X3)

MS

CN

TI --

- 2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

