# 144-10001-10367

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598410

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10367

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

3/0/W/72038-63 FA iNFORMATION BULLETIN

ATI

AGES: 52/02/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSIFICATION

DASSME YEATIDE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE CURRAST REVIEW: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(iii)

-------

-26 NOVEMBER 1963

[R]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598410

TOP SECRET DINAR

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

WS 34

АРАХХіХ

MA INFORMATION BULLETIN

3/0/w/T2@38-63

2 Dec 63

26 November 1963

26 Nov 63 160Ф

Routine

[EXTRACT]b

For the Chief of Mission.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

Information Bulletin

•26 November 1963:

I. Washington, 24 November

After JOHNSON's first meeting with members of governmént and congress an

even more general opinion [25-50M] internal will be continued by him in

principle, although by different methods. It is believed that the role of

RUSK and the State Department will grow greater..• JOHNSON is to assure

MIKOYAN that he will follow KENNEDY's line. MEKOYAN's presence [at the funeral]

evaluated as KhRUShchEV's gesture of good will and his intention to follow

the same policy toward the USA [25-50M] DE GAULLE: the wish to take advan-

tage of JOHNSON's inexperience to play. the role of a man of providence and

solidarity with the USA.

B. JOHNSON will concentrate on consolidating his position in the party

and country. He assumes that' he will be a candidate in the elections. In

both parties [25-50M] is expected. The Republicans believe that their chances

have improved.

II. New York, 25. November. (Information received from

The struggle on the political implication of the assassination continues

between the right and groups close to KENNEDY. It will probably pass to the

3/0/w/T2$38-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS

3 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

"Doc ID: 6598410

*****

TOP SECRET DINAR

***NO FOREIGN DISSEMENATION#***

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

3/0/w/T2038-63

foreign and domestic policies of the new president. Even though the right

was unable to raise anti-Communist feelings in the nation and thus force

JOHNSON's immediate abandonment of the KENNEDY line, it is, however, widening

its influences. Its. representatives in Congress began an open attack of

KENNEDY's policy of looking for agreements with the Soviet Union, and thus

emphasized the hope that JOHNSON will not be such a "green politician."

Western European and Scandinavian delegations with whom we talked avoided all

speculations on the outcome of the meetings with MIKOYAN, DE GAULLE and ERHARD.

III. Berlin, 24 November.

According to United States Armed Forces Radio in Berlin, a state of full

alert of the Bundeswehr was announced in the FRG an 23 November after KENNEDY's

assassination.

The tone of the FRG propaganda was sad, and in a form not

offensive to the right emphasized that KENNEDY's policy was favorable to the

FRG.

The massive funeral displays were organized only in West Berlin and not

in the FRG.

This discounted KENNEDY's attitude towards West Berlin and is an

attempt "'to fall in line with KENNEDY's successor."

IV. Lagos [25-5@M]

a message considers KENNEDY a victim of racial hatred.

questions the retention of Uh offlees in the Stabes. ill commertarisó plet

up the racial question.

V. Rio, 23 November.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

right.

Bo The domestic situatión is ténse.

Fear of a crisis with violent

outcomes exists.

VI. Paris, 24 November.

According to French and German press circles, DE GAULIE during his meeting

with ERHARD placed

ERHARD, Europe must be firmly allied with the USA and according to DE GAULLE

the reverse is desired.

ERHARD believed that USA-USSR dialogue was useful

3/0/w/T2$38-63

- 2 -

-TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 4

Dọc ID: 6598410

***s

TOP SECRET DINAR

***NO FORETON DISSEINATION XXXXX*##*

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

****X*XX:

3/0/W/T2$38-63

(by maintaining certain borders and concessions from the USSR).

According to

DE GAULLE, the dialogue was not necessary and gave no results.

ERHARD raised

the importance of trade with Socialist countries.

VII. Baghdad, 25 November.

Before the formation of the government, three groups appeared in the

officer corps:

Ao The Nationalists [whol demanded liquidation of the Ba'ath,'

Bo la group which] agreed against the inclusion of the Ba'ath in the

government but without its liquidation,

C. [one which] demanded the inclusion of the Ba'ath in the government.

ARIF announced a non-partisan government whose aim is the consolidation of

the nation.

The officers gave him an ultimatum: Complete the consolidation

in eight weeks or resign, the government will not represent any party, allow

the Ba'athist to take part, release all political, prisoners. Ba'ath supporters

defeated the liquidation of the national guard which is only disarmed, the

cadres (20-40M] the nationalists [25-50M]

VIII. Damascus, 23 November.

According to the embassy, HAFEZ's conciliatory tone towards ARIF and his

justification of the events in Iraa is due to his desire to savè the Ba'athists

A break with Irag would indicate a breakdown of the poliey [25-5@M]

Syria as well as bringing ARIF closer to NASSER. From this stem the compli-

to ARIF and strong attacks on NASSER.

IX. Havana. 22 November.

According to a Venezuelan source, the National Liberation Movement is

establishing permanent representation in Havana, increases its contacts, and

intends to establish representations in Europe - the first being in Prague.

The Cabinet of the Minister.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

a Circular message; also sent to Hanoi, Paris, Stockholm and Budapest.

Remainder of text irrelevant.

MS 88

CN

TI --

- 3 -

FOP SECRET DINAR

---

