# 144-10001-10377

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598409

SECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

------

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10377

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

GENC

RECORD NUMBE

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

USA

FROM

USM-701

TO

ROMEO/CHARLIE

TITLE

REFERENCES TO OSWALD IN TELEPHONE CONVERSATION

PAGES: 91/03/64

SUBJECTS

)SWALD, LEE HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

1B

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

SECRET MORAY

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598409

< NNNN ZCZCNAB8 93P0 29 ASB 354

U

RR

D

W DE

SjA 83/15512 JAN

™ ZKZK RR ARA NRL DE

U)

531400Z

< R

UM USM 781

• TO ROMEO/CHARLIE

L YENANZE / DAD BERLIN

ZEN /NSAEUR DET FXFT

ZOM

25 SERE I SABRE

n 2X/R/QOF/T 81-64

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(viii)

453542

610-0603-3

Released on 11-02-2017

under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

laws,

prohibit

onage

on is

THIS FORM FOR INTEUNAL AGENCY USE ONLY

CASSIFIED WORK SHEET

RPT

2X/R/QOF /I D9-64,

This wort sheet conteins information ofleding the National Defense of the United States within the mening of the

Sections 793, 794 ond 798, the tronsmission

or the revelation of which in any monner to an unauthorized

SECRET R/94-64

REFERENCE TO OSWALD IN TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN

FR: (&B PERCENT

2): MR: LEO. CCA)?

ШТО:

- (&B-P -PERGENT.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

¿"AUDITOR'S TRANSLATION"

(IMG) WOULD YOU LIKE TO (XMG) FROM WHOM I FOR WHOM I

= (XMA)

---

## Page 3

O TAUDITOR"S TRANSLATIONS)

Doc IĐ• 6598409.

(XMG) WOULD YOU LIKE TO (XMG) FROM WHOM I FOR WHOM I

Lows. Title

- (XMG)

LL

"•8 OH, YOU MEAN BECAUSE OF OSWALD?

EXACTLY•

YES, MRO LEO, I HAVE THE FOLLOWING TO TELL YOU ABOUT

THAT. I HAD TH IDEA IMMEDIATELY WHEN I HEARD THA HE

LL

HAD (AMG) IN MINSK•

Д

YES, YES•

YOU KNOW THAT ONE WITHOUT P34.84A89,

(XM'G)

(XMG) THAT IS WHAT WE HAVE ALREADY THOUGHT WERE.

I BELIEVE A CORRESPONDING APPLICATION NOW LIES•

14 DAY (AMG) STILL NO ANSWER.

(XMG) AT THE FOREIGN MINISTRY. THEY TOLD ME THAI IT STILL

WAS

NOT DECIDED (XMG) IT IS (XMG) PERSONALLÝ I HAVE NO

MORE GREAT HOPE AFTER THE THINGS (XMG) ARE: THEY HAVE BEEN

VOF COURSE, ALSO THE DOCUMENIS...

YESo -

DELIVERED (XMG). SI'LL PLACES GREAT VALUE HERE ON THE

FACT THAT SOMEONE INMINSK THERE (XMG)

(XMG) TO WHET IS TO BE DONE.

YES, THAT WOULD DEPEND ON WHAT COMES OF IT, THRUE? BUT...

YES•

IMMMO AS A MATTED ME DONATDIE T UNITIN SAY MES CANIV

of which in any

manner to

an unauthorized person is

prohibiled by

affecting

the

Natiend Defense

vi thi

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

(li)

Second 793. 290 and

---

## Page 4

Doc I

YB3984THAT WOULD DEPEND ON WHAT COMES OF IT, THRUE? BUT...

YES•

IMMMC AS, A MATTER OF PRINCIPLE I WOULD SAY

*YES, GLADLY"•

14: WELL, GOOD• SHALL WE LEAVE IT THEN AS IT IS? THAT YOU

PLEASE LET US KNOW WHEN YOU (XMG)

THE FIRST MOMENT I HEARD YOUR VOICE, I THOUGHT IT WAS THE

BIG WHEEL IN PER ON.

N

• GG, 9, DOES HE SPEAK LIKE THAT?

634, IT SOUNDS ANYWAY IN MOSCOW IT SOUNDS VERY SIMILAR:

THAT IS HOWEVER.• (-788534)

BUT GIVE HM MY REGARDS

THANK - YOU•

(/.&) HEAT, 0482390 ((B))

IC(A) NOT IDENTIFIED

S&B») VERY POOR AUDIBILITY. TRANSLATION SUBMITTED WITH

PRESERVE.

GP - 1 /

43: 4

3

5

MS

980

ER CN --

TI D2 JAN 64

W/R/QOF /T 01-64

49984-64

OFFICE: 1009.692803

the

inio

This work sheet contoins information affecting the Mational Defense of the Wiled Stales willin The mocr

Sections 793, 794 and 708, the tonsmiscion or the roadlation of alich in any manner to

THIS FORM FOR INTERNAL AGENCY USE ONLY

CLASSIFIED WORK SHEET

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

ib (iii)

---

