# 144-10001-10348

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598381

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10348

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

- ------

TITLE :

3/0/

/T1281-63 KENNEDY DEATH CREATES GREAT SORROW IN MOROCCI; DELEGA

PAGES : 12/07/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERI

DRIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598381

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS N-9006

3/0/1 /I1281-63

IS

7 Dec 63 P

Dist:

'HCO Plus

ST 280

KENNEDY DEATH CREATES GREAT SORROW IN, MOROCCO; DELEGATION TO

ATTEND FUNERAL

•24 Nov 63

Msg NI:

75 .

The assualt to which President KENNEDY was exposed created: deep

emotion and regret among the people as well as among government:

circles. There have been arncuncements by press' and radio about the

life of (B val the deceased) and the great probiems which he brought

to successful conclusions.

The King sent telegrams. of condolences to MrS. KENNEDY and

to the new President and he summoned the American Ambassador to;

personally express his, legrets.

Monday, the twenty fifth of the

month, was proclaimed

a day of mourning in all Morocco.

A delegation of ten persons, led by Prince ABDULIAH, left for

Washington 1

to represent the king at the funeral ceremony.

Included in this delegation, are the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and

, a general and the Director of Palace Protocol.

MS

36

CN

TI

24; Nov 63

3/01

/T1281-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

