# 144-10001-10349

## Page 1

Doc ID: 8598377

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

: 144-10001-10349

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO :

HCO

TITLE

3/0/

T1282-63 REACTIONS ON NORWAY TO

ATE : 12/07/6

AGES

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION,

-JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

bii)

---------------

KENNEDY MURDER

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598377

TOP SECRET DINAR

N- 9005

3/0/T1282-63

IS

7 Dec 63 P

Dist:

'HCO PluS

ST

280

REACTIONS IN NORWAY TO KENNEDY MURDER

• 24 • NOV 63

Msg NI:

ASC210765X9/2XD)

41.

The news of President KENNEDy's murder aroused great emotion

and

here. An hour after the occarrence of, the event

yesterday, Norwegian television and radio devoted, their programs; to

the assassination of KENNEDY.

Premier' GERHARDSEN, in'a speech during

these programs, said that the death of KENNEDY'was' a 'great loss not

only for Norway but for the whole world. He said "When he

feel 'secura."

This morning .tB

val the Premier), the Foreign Minister, all the

government

the Secretary-General of the Foreign Ministry

and the Director of

• Protocol visited the American Ambassador

personally and offered condolences. The King sent telegrams of

condolence to the new President, and to MIs. KINNEDY and declared a

fourteen-day mourning period..

The President of Parliament sent,wires

of condolence to the heads of the United States Senate: and Housé

of Representatives and the Foreign Minister sent one to. MI. RUSK

University students are preparing a great demonstration.

I went to the American

Embassy

visited the Ambassador and

and after signing the register,

MS

36

CN

TI

24 Nov 63

/T1282-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

