# 144-10001-10268

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598306

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10268

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

EUGENE YEATES,

JUDITH MILLER,

TITLE

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY SEARCH FOR RECORDS RE ASSASSINATION

DATE

PAGES : 10

11/21/78

SUBJECTS

ALLEGATION

RE ASSASSINATION PLOT AGAINST PRESIDENT KENNEDY

ASSASSINAILON, JOIN MENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CURRENT STAONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

÷09/25/98

OPENING

I CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

... •:-.* *:.

•events!

• Doc ID: 65983068:

D- ›

102.8

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

CENTRAL SECURITY SERVICE

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755

Serial: D1/LA0-047M-78

21 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY AND DEPUTY

SECRETARY: OF DEFENSE

ATTN:

Ms. Judith A. Miller

1. The National Security Agency has made a thorough search of all

records that might contain information pertaining to the Select Committee

on Assassinations' request for information relevant to an allegation by

former Air Force enlisted man, David F. Christensen, that while stationed

at Kirknewton, Scotland, he intercepted information linking an assassi-

nation plot against President Kennedy with a figure in organized crime.

2. No communications or information relating to the Committee's

request has been located. Since no other component of DoD is likely to

have information related to this inquiry, suggest you use the attached

draft as your response. If, however, there is any reason why the attached

draft cannot be used, please consult with us before releasing the infor-

mation in any other form.

3. The attached draft response is unclassified.

EUGENE F. YEATE:

Chief

Legislative Affairs

Encl:

a/s

NFDENTIAL

RADAçE it 003, 5O 11652, Cotozary 2

Doctsar son torification by to Originate

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

' Do

10268

PROPOSED RESPONSE TO MR. BLAKEY FROM MR. KESTER

Dear Mr. Blakey:

This letter is in reply to your letter of 15 November 1978 to Secretary

Brown, requesting certain information relating to the investigation of the

assassination of President Kennedy.

Cognizant elements of the Department of Defense have made a thorougn ana

detailed search in an attempt to find recoras which might, relate to the matters

recently

discussed between you and Ms. Miller of my office.

The search efforts included discussions with individuals familiar with

relevant operational procedures existing during the 1963 time frame, a revieii

of records of stored files that might be applicable to your inquiry, and a

physical review of specific records in warehouse storage (recognizing that

most records from this period no longer exist).

The

search efforts described above revealed no information relevant

to your request.

Sincerely,

JOHN G. KESTER

---

## Page 4

*Doc ID: 6598306

NAIDEN

10268

Serial: D1/LAO-047M-78

CC :

DIR

D/DIR

ADPL

EX REG

GC

EXEC, DDO

G8

Exec,

DDM

N33

D9

M/R:

•On 8 November, Mr. Robert G. Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director

for the House Select Committee on Assassinations, posed a number of questions to

NSA regarding a former Air Force enlisted man's allegation that he had intercepted

information linking an assassination plot against President Kennedy with a figure

in organized crime.

Mr. Blakey subsequently submitted a written request (dated

15 November) to support his verbal one.

In essense, the questions probed NSA's ability to quickly and thoroughly

probe for records from the Air Force site in Kirknewton, Scotland (USA-55,

now closed), for information relating to the allegation.

G809 and N33 personnel reviewed both a listing of data and boxed records

from USA-55, but their efforts failed to reveal evidence of the alleged incident.

The actual traffic from this period was minimal and no other records are extant.

The Director has approved.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(v)

LAO,

3747s, 21Nov78, 11I

CONTIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

• Doc ID: 6598306:

LO:IS STONES, DAID, CHAIRMANT

.390S.PRE05A, N.C.

„NE, OHIO

- * 5.. *96.00107. D.C.

SANUEL I PIC KINNEY, CONTE

STEWART U.

CHAMLES THUNE. MENA.

MOTORNER 2. 5000, EGAN.

MAROLO S. SAWYER, MICH.

ARELOE.FCHO, TEMY.

KOTENT I, LOGAR, TA.

10268

(502) 225-1524

Select Cominittee on Esanssinations

U.E. Mouse di Eicerescntailse5

3363 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHiNGTON. D.C. 20515

November 15, 1978

The Honorable Harold Brown

Secretary of Defense

Washington, D. C. 20301

Attention: Mr. John G. Kester

Special Assistant to the Secretary

Dear Mr. Secretary:

This will confirm my telephone conversation of Novenber

14, 1978 with My. Yates of the agency within dOD, requesting.

that his agency provide to the Select Committee, in connection

with its investigation of the assassination of President

Kennedy, such information that it may have, including what

steps it took to obtain that infomation, in reference to the

matters which Ms. Miller of your siaff and I have discussed.

Sincerely,

821469s B2.2

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

CC:

His. Judy Miller

---

## Page 6

• Doc ID: 6598306

Legis!. ve Affairs "

• 10268

16 Nov 78

LAO, 37475

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(v)

TO:

DIR

SUBJ: Proposed Response to House Assassinations

Committee

Attached for your approval is a proposed draft

response to an inquiry from the House Select Committee

on Assassinations.

The draft will be sent to John G.

Kester,

Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense,

for his signature.

for one lante

cc: D/DIR

ADPL

-.::

---

## Page 7

* Doc ID: 6598306

•Chief, Exe live Registry

10268

16 NOV. 78

TO: DI

When preparing responses on behalf

of the Secretary of Defense,

the

following

standard opening will be used:

"This is in reply to your letter to

Secretary Brown regarding....

BeS

AAUSC2107(5X9/24D)

---

## Page 8

• Doc ID: 6598306

j02FE.

PROPOSED RESPONSE TO MR. BLAKEY FROM MR. KESTER

Dear Mr. Blakey:

reply

This letter is in

resgonse to your letter of 15 Havenber 1978 to the

Secretary

Ốt Defense requesting certain information relating to the investigation.

of the assassination of President Kennedy.

Cognizant elements of the Department of Defense have made a thorough and

detailed search in an attempt to find records which might relate to the matters

as recently discussed between you and Ms. Mifler of my office.

The search efforts included discussions with individuals familiar with

relevant operational procedures existing during the 1963 time frame, a review of

records of stored files that might be applicable to your inquiry, and a physical

review of specific records in warehouse storage (recognizing that most records

from this period no longer exist).

The search efforts described above revealed no information relevant to

your request.

JOHN G. KESTER

Special Assistant to the Secretary

EXEC DDO John Monroe

G809 PARISH

N33 WIGGLESWOLTH

GC Dun Silver

---

## Page 9

Doc ID: 6598306

LOUIS STONES, DH1O, CHAIRME

DEO PREyER, N.C.

SAMUEL 1

SINE, OHIO

in Foo FaUNTiraY. D.C.

STEWART D. MCKINNEY, CONN.

ONE DUATRIVATE EUÄKE. CALE.

CHARLES THONE, PEDA.

-STOPHER 1. DO. CENX.

DIASOLO I. SAWYER, MICH.

TODS. FITHIN. 110.

MOSERT IY, LEGAR, TA.

10268

(202) 225-4521

Select Committee on Assassinations

W.5. House of Representatibes

3369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX Z

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

November 15, 1978

The Honorable Harold Brown

Secretary of Defense

Washington, D. C. 20301

Attention: Mr. John G. Kester

Special Assistant to the Secretary

Dear MI. Secretary:

This will confirm my telephone conversation of November

14, 1978 with Mr. Yates of the agency within DOD, requesting

that his agency provide to the Select Committee, in connection

with its investigation of the assassination of President

Kennedy, such to ormation th into mat ave in meterence to ens

steps it took to obtain that information,.

matters which Ms. Miller of your staff and I have discussed.

Sincerely,

82 Polar BRu

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: am

CC :

MS. Judy Miller

---

## Page 10

ROUTING AND TRANSMISTAL SLIP

TO: (Name, office symbol, room number,

building, Agency /Post)

1.

DIR

15265

Date

1671078

daitials

Date

3.

Action

Approval

As Requested

Circulate

Comment

Coordination

REMARKS

File

For Clearance

For Correction.

For Your Information

Investigate

Justify

Note and Return

Per Conversation

Prepare Reply

See Me

Signature

• NOT use this form as a RECORD of epprovals, concurrences, disposa

clearances, and similar actio

FROM: (Name, org: symbol, ABepsy Post)

Room No.- Bldg.

EXECUTIVE REGISTRY

Phone No.

5041-102

# GPO: 1977 0 - 241-530 (3÷50)

Prescribed

PETIONAL FOR 4L (REVy7-76)

FPMR 141 CFR) 101-11.206 t

2230.3

---

## Page 11

DISPATCHED

16 NOV78 16:33

D/EX REG

207011010

---

