# 144-10001-10280

## Page 1

Dốc ID: 6598301

DATE: 10/08/9

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10280

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

NSA SIGINT COMMANO CENTER OPSUM +2028

PAGES 11/27/63

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMFNCATIDE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

DATE GUEST REVER 17124/98

OPENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598301

TOr SECRET DIN IR

NSA SIGINT COMMAND CENTER

OPSUM # 2028

This internal NSA report summarizes significant intelligence

developments, arranged by area of occurrence, and operational

developments of general interest. The material contained

herein was selected from SIGINT, collateral and press received

in the NSASCC between 260700Z- 27070Z November 1963.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b (iii)

CURRENT SIGINT READINESS STATUS

READINESS

AREA

ESTABLISHED

-STATIONS INVOLVED

ALFA

----

18. Nov (DIRNSA)

USA-36, USM-4,:

ALERT ONE

18 Nov

INTELLIGENCE DEVELOPMENTS

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

CUBA

1.

The alert in Oriente province, apparently prompted by the

assassination of President KENNEDY, is believed to have

terminated on 25 November (2027.1). Access to the coastal

observation post at Punta Maisi was restricted only until :25

November, and Eastern Naval District units, which were to receive

further instructions regarding the alert on 25 November, have

apparently not received any such orders. Further, the Cuban navy

held an island wide communication exercise on 25 November.

Such

an exercise is unlikely under alert conditions. 12/01 R58-63,

260219Z)

B-1 Comment: It is possible that the restriction regarding access

to the Punta Maisi observation post extended to other observation

posts in Oriente as well, and that the restriction was to be lifted

on 25 November by all of

these posts.

Page 1

(2028 - 27 November 1963)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

