# 144-10001-10360

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598380

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: NSA

RECORD NUMBER

: 144-10001-10360

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

bil)

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

.................

3/0/W/72021-63 LED SARMAMENT TALKS REPORTED

JATE

AGES: 12910

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3, X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598380

****XXXX

TOP SECRET DINAR

+84471487777ssHWFXND FOREIGN DISSEMENATIO

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specificaily authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY. AGENCY.

_WS'

369.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b (ili)

3/0/w/T2921-63

29 Nov 63

ISARMENT TALKS REPORTED

22; Now 63 1900

Routine

For

In accordance with your instrictions in Nr.

• on disarmament with une Americans arong these iines:

continued talks

Ao Inspection poirts plus threats is one of the possibilities.

Bo Formal ur laterai sceps, acuually simutaneous reductions by

both sides.

Taiks with a representative of the Department of State:

In recent talks

with GROMIKO, the USA

proposed the destrictior of a certain number of bombers

by both sides without inspection.

GRoM KO did not turn down the proposal.

They are ready to expand the idea to include rocket launchers and other types

of weapons aiso without inspection, in order to comply with the reservations

of the USSRo

He considers a formai agreement on futuré reductions or a freeze

too dilficult to attain nexi year because of elections. A confidential agree-

ment is possible.

Information of KENNEDY's assassination was received during the discussion.

The reaction:

Eximinates

the possibility of any steps for elections and •

freezes the situation.

a. See 3/0/w/T1689-63

MS

--

CN -

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

11-

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

