# 144-10001-10317

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598344

FOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10317

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

(li)

3/0/

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO

: HCF

TITLE

::::::::

T3564-63

TRÉPORT ON MIKOYAN TALKS IN THE UNITED STATES

DATE

PAGES • 12/02/6.

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERI

RIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRE

COMMENTS :

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598344

TOP SECRET DINAR

------

WS 12404

3/0/ T3564-63

IS 02 Dec 1935Z P

Dist: HOF

ST ::300.

REPORT ON MIKOYAN TALKS IN THE UNITED STATES

29 Nov' 63

--

On the subject of the conversation which MIKOYAN had with

President JOHNSON, the Department told us that it does riot yet

have a record of the conversation. As far'as our interlocutor

knew the conversation was of a general nature. MIKOYAN; after

expressing the sincere sorrow of the head of the Soviet Govern-

ment and the entire Soviet population'for the tragic death of

President KENNEDY, expressed hope that relations between the

two countriés could continue to develop peacefully in conformity

with the KENNEDY policy. President JOHNSON gave assurances that

it is his firm intention to keep the preceding line of:policy

unaltered.

MIKOYAN then met with RUSK.

The conversation lasted about an hour. The Department told

us that MIKOYAN began by repeating the ideas expressed to JOHNSON,

and RUSK assured him that the change of Presidents did not mean

a change in the foréign policy of the United States. In spite of

the fact that the,two countries have different positions on many

international quéstions--RUSK continued--it is necessary to

explore the area of common interests even if it is not possible

to conclude

formal agreements.

The conversation was then devoted to problems of disarmament,

limitation of the arms race, and reduction of military expenditures.

Particular importance was given to the question of nondissemination

S/0/

/T3564-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598344

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

FOP SECRET DINAR.

3/0/

T3564-63

of nuclear arms.

On this last aspect MIKOYAN repeated the well-

known Soviet thesis concerning the incompatibility between an

agreement on nondissemination and the establishment of a NATO

multilateral force.

Bilateral problems were then briefly mentioned and RUSK

expressed hope that discussions on a consular agreement and

negotiations on cultural exchange can be fruitful.

RUSK then concluded the talk by affirming that, on the

broader international problems, the United States will discuss

the Western position with its allies in December.

MS - -

CN --

TI --

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

