# 144-10001-10101

## Page 1

-..

Doc ID: 6598247

TO

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10101

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

UMBRAPAGE 03/24/97

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

: HCO

TITLE -•

3/0

T1657-63 ( (A)) :

PAGES

AGES :

12/13/63

SURTECTS.

USSR, REACTION TO ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

1B

X

08/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

-ERI

AMBASSADOR. REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO

[R]

[R]

-ERJ

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598247

FOP SECRET DINAR

Change 1

WS 15532

3/0/ /T1657-63((A))

IS

13' Dec 63

Dist:

AMBASSADOR REPORTS SOVIET REACTION TO ASSASSINATION OF

U.S. PRESIDENT-.

29 Nov. 63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

Reference repercussions in the Soviet Union to the assassination

of President KENNEDY.

Basing the first on personal judgment and the others on reports

from reliable diplomatic sources, I will give the, following evalua-

tions:

The deep grief produced here by the assassination was

absolutely spontaneous and can be explained by thé high culture of

the Soviet people, which enables them to rise above world events,:

and by traditional Russian sentimentality.

The moment the news was received, because of the possibility of

international complications the military authorities increased their

security measures. These have now returned to normal.

High-ranking Soviet officials are concerned over what interna-

tional policy the new President will pursue, especially with respect

to Cuba, and, although it seems that MiKOYAN's feelings, after

speaking with the President and other' high-ranking United States

officials, were moderately calm, Soviet leaders are waiting to learn

how the matter of the purchase of wheat in the United 'States will be

resolved and also

for the conclusion of a new Soviet-united States

cultural agreement, in order to obtain a more clear idea of the above-

mentioned policy.

((A)) Reissue based on better text.

MS 19

CN

TI

29: Nov: 63

Change: 1

3/0/

T1657-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note

---

