# 144-10001-10368

## Page 1

Độc ID: 6598408

SECRET MORAY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

: 144-10001-10368

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

------------------------ -

TITLE.

2X/0/

V7133-63-Ü KETHARA ATTACHS GOVERNMENT; LIKENS FATE OF NEE WIN.

DATE: 12/04/6

AGES

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY

CLASSYENCATION PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

bii)

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

-SECRET MORAY

---

## Page 2

Doc HD: 6598408

SECRET SABRE

114

2X/0/

IS

Dist:

ST 240

/T133-63

4 Dec 63 P

HCO

SECRET

U KETHARA ATTACKS GOVERNMENT: LIKENS FATE OF

NE WIN TO DIEM AND KENNEDY

0/26659-63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

26 NOV 63

1711 A 4

[GIST] a

FOR EVALUATION

The shweman Sayadaw U RETHARA spoke at a religious ceremony

which was held from 19DD hours to 2115 hours on 25 November.

The

ceremony was sponsored by U PAw eb and took place in the (4G]

Sunshwehlezu quarter which is in the jurisdiction'of the saingdaw

[quarter] police station in Mandalay:

Approximately 250d people

attended, incluaing some 300 monks. The text of the sermon con-

cerned the attainment of Nirvana.: There was no! (B val elaboration)

on references made to the arrest of CPB/WF members, South Viet Nam,

or the Kennedy assassination. However, in connection with the

talks between the government and the insurgents, the speaker did

GROUP - 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC:

SECRET

PAGE -1

_ of_; 3: PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

MS

962K

CN

TI

26; Nov 63

P/L

WS

33-

-134-63

2x/0/

T133-63

0/26659-63

PAGE

-1

of

3

PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598408

SECRET SABRE

2X/01

T133-63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b (iii)

SECRET

0/26659-63

say he had come to the conclusion that the government was right.

since the original groups of insurgents were not accomplishing

anything with their demands for statehood.

The Shwenan: Sayadaw said he was about to set to work and

that on a (B val holy day) in the month of Tabaunge he would

deliver a sermon which would deal with [XM] the danger of communism

and how it seeks to thwart religion. He said he would also speak

on how the Revolutionary Goverrment [3G] (B val misrules) the

people and how, once the people have been alerted, the government

will be destroyed.

The monk continued by saying that as it has been with the

monks who unhesitatingly banded together and put a stop to the

trouble over the four pagoda colonnades and the (B val number)

45

petrol station, the people likewise will' be able to put an end

to their troubles. And today, as it has been with world leaders

like NGO DINH DIEM

and KENNEDY, Bogyoke NE WIN likewise will

tremble with fear.

PAGE_ 2

_of_3

_PAGE(s)

PAGE_ 2 o 3 PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 4

DoC 12: 6598408

SECRET SABRE

2x/0/1

I133-63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

SECRET

0/26659-63

After apparently making a reference to an historical example,

in which a king was driven from his country by the people, the

Shweman Sayadaw concluded by saying that in order to attain

Nirvana one should follow the precepts of the eight-goods.

a .

Portion of text; remainder irrelevant.

b.

Identified elsewhere as a lumber merchant.

• C.

Iwelfth month of the Burmese year, roughly equivalent to March:

*SECRET

PAGE_ 3

of

3_ PAGE(s)

PAGE 3

SECRET SABRE

of_ 3_ PAGE(s)

---

