# 144-10001-10138

## Page 1

Đoc ID: 6598219

SECRET SPONS

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

----

-——_

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

YSA

144-10001-10138

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DATE: 03/24/97

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

YEATES, EUGENE F.

TITLE

ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSÀ TO LOCATE INFORMATION RELATED TO THE ASSASSINATIO

PAGES

AGES : 36/15/78

SUBJECTS :

SIGINT

NSA

OSWALD, LEE, PROPOSED RUSSIAN TRIP (1963)

OSWALD

TRIP TO MEXICO

CUBA, COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :7

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

SE

ET SPOKE

---

## Page 2

Đoc ID: 6598219

TOP SECRE:

" MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

15 June 1978

SUBJECT:

Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related

to the Assassination of President Kennedy

A.

Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSP. nas

performed a number of separate in-depth reviaws of materials in

its files in an attempt to isclate data that might be relevant

to the assassination of President Kennedy.

Nothing of signisicance

nas been datesmined as a result of those reviers.

1.

November-December 1953 - Innediately after the

assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scale manual and machine

review Of available SIGINT, including all U.S./Caba traffic (SA

intercepted messages at an average of 1,000

per day at that time).

search was initiated using Osvald's name as the mininu-

Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/Bew

ana Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed lan analyst invoived

recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,

along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic).

Scmetime

Guring the

seasch, itens from the Oswald address book provided or

the FBI were added to the search criteria.

2.

I964 - warren Commission - The Commission, in the

person of Ailan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any

secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the

documents.

1e also appears that iSA searched racords for information

on the basis o other Warren Commission reguests made informaliv

by Allen Dulles.

3. November 1975 - Senate Select Committes to Study

Governmental Cerations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSE)

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,

NSA reviewed is Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military:

The search was also for material involving Marina Oswald, Jack

RUbY

June 1976 - Pursuant to FOIA requests, asking for

material relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA CORINT CHANNELS ONLY

44USC2107(5)(g)(2X(D)

b (iii)

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598219

44USC2107(5)(g)(2X(D

b(iii)

SE

Of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.

Strongbox searches were made on the following:

Lee Harvey Oswald

Assassination of

President Kennedy

Earl Ruoy

Cobo Cleaners

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1977

1966 - 1977

5.

December 1976 - Senate Select Committee on Intalli-

gence (SSCI) - Requested all the material we had available or

the

Cuban agent problem:

It consisted of 185 reports for the period

1961 - 1965.

211 cl these reports were received by Committee

Staff Members.

March 1978 - House Select Committee on Assassination:

Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materia

relatino to the assassination.

A11 Cuban agent, material (1961

was reviewed,. as was material that had beer

previously compiled te

respond to the SECI and SSC requests.

As a result of the reviews described above, the follerane

materials which may have some relevance to the assassination were

located (referenced material inclosea at numbered tabs) :

1. Four Cuban

messages which contained

official cuban -comments regarding press items that discussed Osvald'

activity

in late September 1963 to obtain a visa to travel to

There were also comments on the assassination itself.

The messages are dated in the last week of Novemoer 1963.

2.

Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban

militaryiforces did go on alert immediately after the assassination.

One 196? Cuban Intelligence) message concerning the

assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto

Rico) SERAFIN.

4.

One 1966 Cuban [

message concerning a Spanish

diplomaty in Cuba.

It referenced a 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate

an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against Raul Castio Ruz, possibly

linking it to the CIA.

5. Information in an FBI document relating to a i

was supplied by NSa.

Because this document

vas to be turned over to the HAS,, there may be some relation

to the assassination.

One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim

Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and

Daviá W. Ferrie.

TOP SECRET

2

HANDLE VIA COMINE BIANNELS ONLY

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6598219

TOP

SE

Based on these

extensive reviews and the paucity of

material derived, it is possible to state that:

"A thorough

review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or

suggesting Cuban involvement in the assassination of President

Kennedy. "

Eugene. Yester

Chief

Incl:

a/s

TOP SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMATT CHANNELS ONLY

3

---

