# 144-10001-10359

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598378

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10359

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

3/0/TRIG-VNP/T4T-63 REPORT OF VIET CONG PROPAGANDA PLAN TO REPRESENT

ATE

AGES: 52/05/6

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, JOHN KENNEDY

CLASSMENCATIDE PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM:

NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID:: 6598378

TOP SECRET DINAR

US/UK/AUSTRALIAN EYES ONLI

TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

WS 22-0049-63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b (iii)

Vietnamese

(South)

3/0/TRIG+VNP/T47-63

IS 05 Deç 22592 P

Dist: HCF

REPORT OF VIET CONG PROPAGANDA PIAN TÓ REPRESENT PRESIDENT

KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION AS. REPUDIATION OF US.

.. ROLE IN VIET NAM

FR [M]

TO

[M]

27 Nov: 63 1430G

Z

Reference Message Number

(1)) of 15: November 1953.

I have. the honor to report

the situation

A:

(C val The attacks) of the Viat Cong according to

to supply, then the

Viet' Cong will propagandiza by

misrepresenting the various

of President KENNEDY for

the following reasons:

will propagandiza against

President KENNEDY because' he

decided to sand more than 4000

American troops to Viet, Nam, bringing the [totall number to

more than 16,000.

This nuncer of troops in combat could not

be borne further

because the struggle in Viet Nam

was unjustified,

and 15 was: for that raason that President

KENNEDY waS (3

val assassinated),

Relying on this explanation, they maintain that they

are cartain to be victorious in the struggle in Viet Nam because

it is the American Groops who have been fighting the war.

present my offica is studying a plan to countaract this poa~

ganda,

Vietnamesa

(South)

3/0/TRIG-VNP/T47-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGE (S)

US/UK/AUSTRAZIAN EYES ONLY

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Dóc ID: 6598378

TOP SECRET DINAR

Vietnamese

(South)

3/0/TRIG-VNP/T47-63

B. The activity of the counter-revolutionary gang is nil.

C. The general situation is unimpeded.

((A)) Not available.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

FR 29

MS 962Q

TO 30

CN

OR 1BR

AD 9KU

TI 27 NOV 63

- 20

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

