# 144-10001-10168

## Page 1

-

SECRET MORAY

Doc ID: 6598280

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

---

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10168

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 09/11/97

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

2X/0,

T2440-65 - HAVANA VERIFTES OSWALDS REQUEST/TRANSIT VISA/RUSSIA

PAGES: 111/26/63

SUBJECTS:

VISA NEVER GRANTED

CLASSMENCATION REPORT

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Dated 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR"

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

SECRET MORAY

---

## Page 2

Doc ID? 6598280

SECRET SABRE

2X/0/ 112440-63

IS 28 Nov 1949Z P

Dist: HCF

ST 300

SECRETE

0/27247-63

HAVANA VERIFIES OSWALD'S REQUEST FOR TRANSIT VISA FOR RUSSIA

26 Nov 63.

reported yesterday that the information in the newspaper

Excelcior of. Mexico City concerning LEE OSWALD's request for a transit

visa to go to the USSR, which was requested from the Cuban Consulate

in Merida, is tre,

This visa was requested 27 September from said

permission of

consulate, which state rhat it could not grant the visa without

and unless permission had been granted pre

viously by the country of destination.: OSWALD gave up arinoying the

consulate, and the visa was never granted.

This detail, and others, confirm the suspicion that the KENNEDY

assassination was a provocation against world peace by the most re-

actionary sectors. It is evident that these sectors planed

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRE

PAGE:"

_of_ 2.

_PAGE(s)

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

MS 19

CN

TI. 27 Nov 63

Cuban

WS 17303

2x/01

/T2440-63

0/27247-63

PAGE 1

of

PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598280

SECRET SABRE

2x/0/

T2440-63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

SECRET

0/27247-63

beforehand to involve Cuba and the USSR in the acts. The inconceiv

able impunity of a person who, with a known police record could

murder OSWALD in the presence of the police in a prison basement,

demonstrates the scandalous meane which reactionary forces are

using in the United States to cover up the perpetrators and the

motives for KENNEDY's assassination. World-wide public opinion

demands a clarification of the facts. It is absurd that the Dallas

District Attorney is closing the case of the death of the President

scarcely 48 hours

after the deed.

sent to Cuban

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

-DOENCRADINE AND TECLASSIFICATION

FAINTEL

NEE

PAGE 2

PAGE(s)

PAGE 2 Of ? PAGE(s)

SECRET SABRE

---

