# 144-10001-10163

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598289

JATE: 12/04/97

AGE:.

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10163

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

MUSC 1076549Y210)

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

NSA

NSA

TITLE

RECORDS SEARCH FOR THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

DATE: 12/13178

PAGES

SUBJECTS

INFO FROM USA-55 ON INTERCEPT RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1A,

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S

DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

ERJ

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

ROF

USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

-ĐốC -ĐD: 6598289 13

Czad Laus

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

13 December 1978

SUBJECT: Records Search for the Select Committee on Assassinations...

1:

(TS. ceo) _On 9 November 1978 N33

received a call fron G8

(Mr Parish) concerning retrieval of Information from Stored Records

(L142)

In the discussion with Mr. Harold Parish, Chief, G809, it was

learned that he was preparing a response to [

Legislative Affairs

(D]), concerning information given to the House Assassinations Committee.

According to Parish, the committee was reviewing a claim by a former Air

Force sergeant that traffic fron

eminating

Öut of.

was intercepted and was forwarded in 1963• from

i his

assigned duty station at USA-55 (Kirknewton, Scotland) to NSA; that he

recalls a 1963 intercepted item reflecting a possible assassination

attempt on President Kennedy...

• The Committee Staff requested NSÀ. to make a

search to determine if the 1963 files on the alleged message exists

2:

(U) According to Mr. Parish traffic from USA-55 would not have

been

forwarded for retirement to the Agency Recoids Center. (This eliminates

that organization as a possible file location.)

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(V)

3.

(U)

(BI09) was requested to, and did provide

the B1 Stored Records Listing (Bl listings were to be searched because

that ran at the pede song a de ate are uses into

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

consideration the possibility that files stored under the Bl designator

in 1962 may not have been redesignated.)

(U) On this same date, a brief meeting was held in the Legislative

Affairs Office to review the status and discuss the appropriate procedures

for this records search effort. Those in attendance were:

Eugene Yeates, Chief, Legislative Affairs

Legislative Affairs

Don Wigglesworth, Chief, N33. Agency Records Officer

G809

The following points were made at, this meeting:

. 1

a.

(U) Retired Records Storage was ruled out as a possible

location since intercept traffic is not forwarded to the center as

record material for long term or permanent retention.

b. (U) B1 Stored Records Listings have been reviewed. While

no specific description relating to subject/station location appears

in the listings of 1963 files, there were three boxes of. 1963 files not

identified by

subject.

Released on 11-02-2017

under the John F

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

HANDLE VIA

• COMMIT CHANELS ONLY

4778

---

## Page 3

Doc ID:

8289:

O TOP SEOREO

C.

(U) It was agreed by-those present that a review of the documents

these three

unidentified boxes would constitute a reasonable effort to

ind the alleged record!

•(e) On 13 November

reviewed the contents

of the three 1963 boxes, specifically looking for 1963 messages from USA-55:

There were no files that directly or indirectly referred in any way to

President Rennedy. The latest date in the box was. 1962.

This information

was passed on to the Legislative Affairs Office.

6. (U) On 16 November 1978

discussed with Mr. Wigglesworth

the proposed written response to the Committee.

This response reflects

that a reasonable search was made and no such record was found

• 7.. (U) On 21 November 1978

requested that -an additional

search be made of materials dated later than 1963. The reason for this

search is that most materials in the unidentified boxes are dated 196.1

and 1962, but the box listing says It contains 1963 files.

- appropriate for searching for 1963 files.

records listing was again reviewed for any 1964 boxes that might be

According- tol

phone conversation with the undersigned on 22 November 1978, nothing on

the list merits such a search.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(v)

N33,

5818s; 13 Dec 78, paw

*cC:

"B1

G809 (Mr. Parish)

HANDLE VIA GORINT EMANDELS ONLY

---

