# 144-10001-10264

## Page 1

•Đóc ID: 6598311

TOP SSONEY

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

GENCY : NJ

ECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10264

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DATE: 01/26/90

PAGE:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

NSA

TITLE

ACTIONS TAKEN BY NSA TO LOCATE JFK ASSASSINATION INFORMATION

ATE

SUBJECTS

DIPLOMATIC MESSAGES®

[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE : CABLES (USE FOR CABLES, TELEGRAMS, WIRES, AIRGRAMS)

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/97

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

TRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Derived From:

Declassify On:

NSA/CSSM 123-2,

Datéd 3 September 1991

Source Marked "OADR"

Date of source: 3 Sep 91

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 2

: Doc ID: 6598311':•

TOP SECRE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

15 June 1978

SUBJECT: Actions Taken by NSA to Locate Information Related

to the Assassination of President Kennedy

A. Over the past fourteen and one-half years, NSA has

performed a number of separate in-depth reviews of

materials in

its files

in an attempt to isolate data that might be relevant

to the assassination of President Kennedy. Nothing of significance

has been determined as a result of those reviews.

1. November-December 1963 - Immediately after the

assassination, NSAinitiated a large-scale manual and machine

review of available SIGINt, including all U.S./ Cuba traffic (NSA

Intercepted messages at an average of 1,000 per day at that time.

A computer search was initiated using Oswald's name as the minimun

for research criteria. Additionally, all traffic between Cuba/New

Orleans and Cuba/Dallas was manually reviewed (an analyst involved

recalled that 25 to 50 analysts reviewed the traffic manually,

along with traffic from Cuba and some Soviet traffic). Sometime

during the search, items from the Oswald address book

provided by

the FBI were added to the search criteria.

2.

1964 - Warren Commission - The Commission, in the

person of Allan Dulles, asked NSA to review the exhibits for any

secret writings or codes which might have been contained in the

documents.

It also appears that NSA

searched records

for information

on the basis of other Warren Commission requests made informally

by Allen Dulles.

3. November 1975 - Senate Select Committee to Study

Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) :

In response to an SSC request on the Assassination,

reviewed its Soviet and Cuban files, including Cuban military.

The search was also for material involving Marina Oswald, Jack Ruby

or Earl Ruby (a Harvest run was made) .

_traffic was also

reviewed, looking for information concerning Oswald's visit to

Mexico.

405021076549X2X0)

June 1976 - Pursuant to FOIA requests asking for

material relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination

TOP SECRET

- HANDLE VIA COMINT GHANNELS OMLY

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598311: •

of President John F. Kennedy, NSA again searched the files.

Strongbox searches were made on the following:

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

Lee Harvey Oswald

1966 - 1976

Assassination of

President Kennedy

Earl Ruby

Cobo Cleaners

1966 - 1976

1966 - 1977

1966 - 1977

5.

December 1976 - Senate Select Committée on Intelli-

gence (SSCI) - Requested all the material we had available on the

Cuban agent problem.

It consisted of 485 reports' for, the period

1961 - 1965. All of these reports were received by Committee

Staff Members.

6. March 1978 - House Select Committee on Assassinations -

Requested all data on Cuban intelligence network and other materials

relating to the Assassination.

All Cuban agent material (1961 - 1964)

was reviewed, as was material that had beén previously compiled to

respond to the SSCI and SSC requests.

B.

As a result of the reviews described above, the following

materials which may have some relevance to the

assassination were

located (referenced material inclosed at numbered tabs) :

1. Four Cuban

message's which contained

official Cuban comments regarding press itéms that discussed Oswald's

activity in late September 19,63 to obtain,a visa to travel to:

MOSCOW •

There were also comments on the assassination itself.

The messages are dated in the last week of November 1963.

- - -

2.

Three Cuban military reports which show that Cuban

military forces did go ón alert immediately after the assassination.

3.

One 1962 Cuban Intelligence message concerning the

assassination of Antonio Veciana. This message was to (Puerto

Rico) SERAFIN.

4. One 1966 Cuban L

message concerning a Spanish

diplomat in Cuba. It referenced a

• 1960 plan in Cuba to assassinate

an USSR dignitary in Cuba and against 'Raul Castro Ruz, possibly

linking it to the CIA.

5. Information in an FBI document relating to a

_was supplied by NSA.

Because this document

was to be turned over to the HASC, there may be some relation

to the assassination.

6. One 1967 message showing Cuban interest in Jim

Garrison's investigation of both the Kennedy Assassination and

David W.

Ferrie.

TOP SECRET

2

HANDLE VIA COMIT CHANNELS ORLY

---

## Page 4

Doc TD: 6598311: =

TOP SECRE

c.

'Based on these extensive reviews and the paucity of

material derived, it is possible to state that: "A thorough

review has revealed no intelligence material revealing or

suggesting. Cuban involvement in the assassination of President

Kennedy."

Eugeiet. Yeate

EUGENE F. YEATES

Chief

DI

Incl:

a/s

-TOP SECRET

-HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

3

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6598311

-TOP SECRES

It seems to me that this summary should now be used

as the basis for advising

Mr. Blakey that we have reviewed all our holdings and have found nothing

directly (or even indirectly) relevant to his investigation.

Sene

EUGENE F. YEATES

Incl:

a/s

-TOP SECRET

-HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

2

---

## Page 6

Doc ID: 6598311

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

biii)

Cuban

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS 17277

3/07

Y72394-63

IS 26 Hor

201 SZ

Dist: HCF

ST 300

P

CUBAN STATEMENT ON VISA FOR OSWALD

25 Nov 63

I am reproducing below the note siven to the

press by

With relation to the informat on published today in the

newspaper Excalsion in Mexico City,

affizning that LEr HARVEy

OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel to the Soviet

Union at the Cuban Consulate Ir. Mexico in September, the Cuban

Governent requested information from the officials of our

Consulate in that city confirming that it is certain that

MX. LEE HARVEY OSWALD requested the transit visa for travel to

the Soviet Union on 27 September in the said Consulate.

Or being informed by

the consular officials that their

office could not grant such a visa without the authorization.

of the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations, which Likewise

would not grant it if it was not previously authorized by the,

country of destination, Mr. OSWALD left' the Consulate visibl

disgusted.

The said visa was never granted.

This detail in connection with the other circumstance

that surround the facts, confirm our suspicion that the

assaesination of KENNEDY was a provocation against world cance,.

perfectly and thoroughly planned by the most reactionasy sectors

of the United States:

Cuban

T13R4-63

THES DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PACE(S)

---

## Page 7

ID: 6

TOP SECRET DINAR

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

Cuban

3/0/

T1384-63

It is evident that these sectors planned beforehand to

involve Cuba and the Soviet Union in these deeds.

The inconceivable and inexplicable impunity vich which an

individual of known penal antecudents assassinated OSWALD, the

principal accused of the assassination of President KENNEDY, L0

the presence of the police themselves and in the (5G) of a

prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and Indisputable manner:

that the poverful reactionary political forces within the

United States are making use of all cheir resources

and intluences

• in order to conceal chose who master-hinded KENNEDY's assassination,

and the true motives for it.

World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.

It is absurd that the political authorities and the prosecuting.

attorney of Dallas have declared that the case is closed when

hardly 48 hours have passed since a deed of so great a resule as

the assassination of the President of the United States.

Regards.

MS

ON --

TI ÷"

TOP SECRET

DINAR

---

## Page 8

Đọc ID: 65983T1

SECRET SABRE

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

biii)

2X/0/ 4872456-65

-Ió 29

Sov: 22=32 P

Dist:

"TF

ST 300

SECRET

0/27282 - 60

CASTRO SPEAKS ON PRESIDENT. KENNEDY'S ASSASSINAFION AND CUBAN

ECONOMY

28 Nov 63

FIDEL stated, "Events are demonstrating the sinister piot

behind the assassination of KENNEDY.

contradictions show that

OSWALD was made the culprit by the police or was prepared to

comit the act with promise of escape, ad was assigned activities

so as to have responsibility fall on' or be insinuated agsinst

those whom the perpetrators wished.

It is clear that united

States reactionaries tried to nake Cuba and the, world the victime

of their criminal designs, even at the price of assasihating

their own president.

They sent, OSWALD to Mexido to request

a transie visa to Cuba for later travel to the USSR. Imagine

the president's assasin just getuming. from the USSR and

GROUP 1

PAGE L

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECIASSIFICATION

KiE Ms 19

Cuban

CN

TI, 29.Nov 63

WS 17312

2X/0/

0/27282-63

PaGE

. of 3

T2456-63

PAGE(e)

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 9

- Doc ID: 659831)

SECRET SABRE

2X/0

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(ili)

T2456-63

0, 27232-63

passing through Cuba.

The visa to the USSR he could have

requested from the ncarest El ropean country ind net have to come

to Cuba to later go to the USÜR, which is zuch farther.

-:"

He also said, "By 1970 we will be in condition to surpass

10 million tons of sugar and to export it. The economy begins

to improve solidly.. We have sugar sold at close to 10 centavos.

oỵ 1965 and 1966. There shortly will be a noible increase in

neats and other articles. At the year's end, nougats, wine

and grapes will reappear as the result of the development of

foreign trade.

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

Nant

DORNGRADING AND. DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

of

3: PAGE(S)

RET SABRE

---

## Page 10

SECRET SABRE

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b (iii)

:2x/0/

T2456-63

0/27282-63

((A)) This 1s a

message sent also to Cubar

GROUP. 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SECRET

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 3 oF 3:

_PAGE(s)

PAGE 3

of.

PAGE(O)

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 11

Doc ID: 6598311

44USC2107 (5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

SECRET SABRE

2X/0,l

Y92545-03

IS

.14 Dec 63

Dist: HCỌ

ST

300

0/27780-63

GHANAIAN. PRESS ENPHASIZING CUBAN COMMENTARIES ON DEATH OF PRESIDENTIAL

ASSASSIN-

• 30 Nov 63

The Ghanaian press emphasized in the,headlines of the first.

a one nonet he con estates of the prime inister of

GROUP 1

*EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

DINT

PAGE

of

_ PAGE(s)

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

d(ii)

MS

*Cuban

WS: -17344

"TI.

2x/o/

0/27738-63

772545-63

227:

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 12

Doc ID: 6598311

SECRET SABRE

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

biii)

.2x/0/772440-63

IS: 28 Hoy 1949: P

"Dist: HOF

3I 300/

1179247-53

HAVANA VERTY TE? USWUT: REQUEST FOR TRÁNSTY MESA FOR RUSTLA

25 Nov : 53

reported yesterday that the information' in the newspaper

Excelcior of Mexico CiLy, concerning LEE OSWALD's réquest for a ecansic

visa to go to the UssR, which was requested from the Cuban Consulate

in Merida, is true.

This visa was requested 27 September from said

consulate, wiuch stated that it couldinot grant che visa without

permission off

and unless permission had been gented pre-

viously by the country of destination. OsWALD gave up aunpying the

consulate, and the visa was never,éranted,

This detail, and others, confirm the suspicion that the XENNEDY

assassination was a provocation'against world peace by the most re-

actionary sectors. It is evidént that these séctors planned

GROUP 2

PAGE_L

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

CAEL

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

Pis

19

Cuban

, 22

Ti 27 Nov 63

WS 17303

2X/0

0/27247-63

T2440-63

SEC

LI SABRE

---

## Page 13

Đọc 1D: 6598311

SECRET SABRE

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(iii)

2X/0/

172440-63

0/27247-03

beforehand to involve Cuba and the ussR in the acts. The Inconceivr

able Impunity of a person who, with a know police record could

murder OSWALD in the presence of the police in a prison basement,

demonstrates the scandalous means which reactionary forces are

using in the United States to cover up the perpetrators and the

motives for KENNEDY's'assassination. World wide public opinion

demands. a clarification of the facts.

urd that the Dallas

District Attorney is closing the case of the deach of the President

scarcely 48 hours after the deed.

( (A))

sent to Cuban

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

FEE DIC TE

DOMSRARNCS ARE DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE L

- PAGE(R)

• 1.4

PAGE 2

_ PAGES

SECRET SABRE

---

## Page 14

• Dos ID: 65983

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(iii)

SEGRET K

IMBO

2/0/

P5.8-63

26 NOV 63 2019Z

DISTED/HA

ST 250

ALERT IN GREENTE PROVINCE BELIEVED TO BE TERLINATED

The alert in Oriente Province (see 210,

1RI96-63) I's be-

The alert, apparently promied by

Preved to laterals death on on core apa ens possily pra-

schraled to terainate on 25 goverbar, There have been to ordars

wnich suggest that the alert was destined to be concludedion

25 roverber; tney are:

1) Access to the cóastal Observation post at punEa

Kaisi (20-158 74-051)

vas restálized until 25, Koveaber because

of the alert (see 2/Q5

(R6$1-63); and

2) Subordinates of Banes, Readquarters Eéstem Naval

District, mere to secelve furtier orders on, the 25th, presumably.

corceming their alert status 1210;

1196-53); no such orders

hare been noted in contrications.

There hara bean no further references in Intercepted c067-63).

cations. to the alert since 02227 on 23 Bovenuer (2/Q5/

It is possible that the restricted access to the Observation

Fost at Putta falsi exteads to other Observation Posts in Oriente

Province such as reported on 23 novacher when Plest Argy Coastal

Observatiat Posts here placed lu an alert status

[2/21 R139-53), aud this the restriction was to be lifted on

25 loveaber by all those posts.

Further Indication that the alert has teminated is the fact

inal the Colan Nary was engaged inan islard-ide comunications

It Is considered unlikely that such an

exercise

"ila be cunducted unior alert cordliions.

There haun been no furtier referencos to the alort status

UT

pealad, 22-26 lovealer 1963.

---

## Page 15

Doc th 65983tt,

SECRET.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(iii)

:2/01

3105-63

:25 Nov 63,18152

ST. 25025

LUERE IN RASTORA AVAL DI STRICE REZANDO, 22 NOMENOCE

nAs deste clero cento de premo reesty el satern

22 novoser tri

headqua

AG 22372o8; 23, novespero Coo aters mas xelezed a cartalo

subostrata to alva Leave to 25, percens os trair pastermal

on: 25 Horrober 29630.

314484

88003 (21227

indicastos Ecaz che alar a saramat coluna andar

to note thas suceno

C69-267

com Bayal Castilet

302-83/12795

26559 asar

B3o7-63)

---

## Page 16

Doc IĐ: 69831

1009:

7.00

57x53t

ode

75-

1722

D÷

223"

Bro brin coa subjac

подiс3орі

raca sana:

5=2ad

1:021 10

ROSAR CASE FO

no oleir

55rá3):

345

P.r.

ЗАВСКА

Bacter co tomandoa

iras

Sho

era sat semelle 17/5

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b (iii)

---

## Page 17

12 57r

i Đoc IĐ: 6598311

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(ili)

FOR SECRET DINAR

Cuban

43/5K e

ONLY

TO BE GIVEN TRIG (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

WS 35

3/0/TRIG-E#/123-52

IS

29 Nov 62 ₽

28 Nov 62

--

FR

(U]

TO

[Puerto Rico]:

MISERAFIN]

Msg NI: [M]

[X] cautiousness and equanimity which you possessi.

• The

-itinery plan (l wa G]((A)) be-carried out after completing the

recruiting task and when the conditions exist.

MS 84

TI 28 NOV 62

Stopp

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

ER --

TO --

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

US/SU CANADA EVES ONIX

CN

3/0/TRIG-_ E23-62

TOP SECRET DINA

EUREMU SOURCE

- Cuten

INDEXED

164-329 - -=:...-

NOT REDECO

2X8 2 6 1251

---

## Page 18

• 511

Doc ID: 6598311

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

SECRET DIVAR

Cuban

3/0/ TRIG-

/T23-62

The plan for the execution Of VECIANA((B)) and ESTEVEZ ( (C))

Is less Important than the other. What information lao you have

about) plan PO ALPHA?

Despite detection of the plan you may carry out the plan of

action against VECIANA.

Liscen tomorion to the transmissions about the concrete

objcctives. End of message.

YNIKE

18 November [XG]

((A)) C percent can.

((3)) ANTONIOLSCIANA, Puerto Rican spokesman fOr ALPHA 66.

((C)) PrObabLy GERONIMO ESTEVEZ, Cuban exile in puerto Rico and

a member: of the coördinating committee of Cuban democratic

organizations in exile.

-2-

IONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FOP

PREAU SOURCE -É - CUE?-

INDEXED

1 64-339-210--91-1

NOT RECORDED

WAR 2 6 1353

---

## Page 19

Doc ID: 6598311

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for Document re Antonio Veciana

30 December 1976

:

In response to the inclosed 20 December request from

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, on this date

I showed the NSA product on Antonio Veciana, 3/0/TRIG-_ 7T23-62

dated 29 November 1962, to SSCI staffers Tom Moore and Howard

Liebengood. They were quite interested in this message and

a reference to "Serafin."

They indicated that the Committee

would request a review of all Cuban material for the period

1961-1965.

JOHI

C. WOBENSMITH

Legislative Affairs

LAO

3 Incls:

1.

SSCI ltr dtd 20

Dec 76

2.

Product

3.

Backup

more Cot ty Dr9-45000 (007/08238 220-36)

S80:039275

22505

Mandana but

1SeI

sad

---

## Page 20

SICKE

Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/

T1663-66

IS 03 Jun 1955Z P

Dist: HCF

CHAD LI

= 0/15748-66

SPANISH COUNSELOR IN HAVANA DECLARED PERSONA NON GRATA-

28 May 66

Urgent

2, 34

I am transcribing below, for your information and for

appropriate purposes, the text of the note delivered this morning,

Saturday: to the Spainish Embassy in Cuba.

"Havana, 28 May 1966

"Chargé d'Affaires:

"I have the honor of addressing you' on a matter which the

Government of Cuba considers of the utmost importance and gravity,

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION•

PAGE

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

biii)

BUREAU SOURCE - 6-Culia

1 64-330-210-460

JUs 1 4 1966

NOT RECORDED

MS

Cuban

CN

TI

WS 42637

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

d(ii)

INDEXED

PAGE.

SECRET LARUM !

PAGE(s)

---

## Page 21

Doc ID: 6598311

SECRET LAD I

2X/0/

/ T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

SHORET

- 0/15748-66

since it deals with crimes that have been committed and activities

that have been carried out against the integrity and stability

of the state by Mr. JAIME CALDEVILLA Y GARCIA VILLAR, Press

Counselor of the Spanish: Embassy, who intolerably abused

the

diplomatic immunity and privileges granted him and used them

for purposes, like those cited, that are very different from the

functions assigned to him.

"With the purpose of documenting what has already been

indicated, I take the liberty of informing you below in detail, of

the charges which have been brought against Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA,

proved in an authentic and irrefutable manner, and which compel

us to formally and expressly request his immediate departure from

the country persona non grata.

"The main activites of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA are

directed toward the search, by illicit means, for information of a

PAGE

12

PAGE(s)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICAIION

PAGE

SECRET LARUM

of. 12

PAGE(s)

---

## Page 22

Doc ID: 6598311

SECRET LAB

2X/0/

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

WELCDET

0/15748-66

military, economic and political nature, the fulfillment of tasks

of ideological diversionism and the recruitment of agents and

counterrevolutionaries for the Central Intelligence Agency, tasks

in which he has availed himself of the very close collaboration of

his secretary, Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ (A) ) .

"Since February 1959, Counselor CALDEVILIA has undertaken the

job of recruiting members of the then Rebel Army, among them the

traitor ALDO VERA((A)), MARIO MARRERO((A)), and AGUSTIN PARRADA((A)).

The latter, once his activities were discovered, found it propitious

to flee the country to avoid prosecution.

"Along this same line, he also used the aforementioned Miss

CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, instructing her to infiltrate student

organizations for the purpose of creating diversionism in the

ideological order, and she established, for this purpose, intimate

relations with Mr. PEDRO LUIS BOTTELL (A)); ex-President of the

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE_

-L2PAGE(S)

PAGE 3

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 23

SLCKE.

• Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

DIE TI

0/15748-66

University of Havana School of Engineering. When the latter was

arrested and sentenced to imprisonment on the Isle of Pines,

Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ went there and carried out military and political

espionage activities. The data and information that she obtained

on that occasion were transmitted to

Counselor JAIME CALDEVILIA,

and included microfilms.

"In February 1960 Counselo: CALDEVILLA conceived a plan for

an attempt against the life of the then First Deputy Chairman of

the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Mr. ANASTAS MIKOYAN,.

a guest in Cuba, for which purpose he delivered arms to a group

of counterrevolutionarly elements.

It was not executed, according

to what Counselor CALDEVILLA himself claims, because of the

cowardice of the assassins, He also sought refuge and protection in

the home of his collaborator JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ((A)), FOI MI. ISRAEL

ZAMORA PEREZ ((A)), a fugitive from Cuban authorities for plotting

an attempt against the life of the Vice Prime Minister and Minister

of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, Conmander RAUL CASTRO RUZ,

PAGE

4 12 PAGE(S)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

-DONGRADING AND DECLASSTEICATION

PAGE 4 0F 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 24

SECRET LAT

Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/

VT1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

DES

0/15748-66

as well as a plan to create an incident at the United States Naval

Base at Guantanamo. Later, Counselor CALDEVILLA arranged for the

mentioned ISRAEL ZAMORA PEREZ to take asylum in the Colombian

Embassy in Havana.

"In May 1962 he instructed his agents CARMEN JIMENEZ CARCIA

and ALFREDO SERRA ECHEVARRIA((A)), an accountant at the Embassy,

as

well as other individuals, to intiltrate difterent organizations

and offices of the Cuban State. The former went to work in the

offices of the National College of Architects, where she established

contacts with numerous professionals. to induce them to desert, as

well as to obtain data and intormation from the Congress of the

International Union of Architects, where she worked as a simultaneous

interpreter.

"The latter worked at the National Institute of Agrarian Reform

where, if a break in diplomatic relations between Spain and Cuba

occurred, he would be in charge of obtaining confidential information

GROUP 1

PAGE 5 °F- 12 PAGE(S)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 5 _ 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 25

SICKET

Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/ 7/T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

b(iii)

0/15748-66

to supply to the enemy. In July and October of 1962 he distributed

correspondence with instructions, received by diplomatic pouch,

for the counterrevolutionary organization, the Revolutionary

Student Directorate with which he maintained close relations

through BLANCA MARTINEZ DEL FOYO((A)), JORCE MEDINA BRINGUIER ( (A)),

and LUIS TERNANDEZ ROCHA( (A)) .

The first two were national coordinators

for civic resistance and strengthening of the Revolutionary Student

Directorate, and the latter, a CIA agent.

"It has also been proved that Counselor CALDEVILLA's wife,

at his suggestion, has maintained relations with relatives of

political prisoners and counterrevolutionaries, inciting them to

send letters of protest to foreign embassies and international

organizations.

"On the occasion of the arrest of counterrevolutionary GENARO

FERNANDEZ FOLGUEIRAS, national leader of the counterrevolutionary

organization, the National Union of Revolutionary Institutions, he

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE

6 of 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 26

Doc ID: 6598311

(SECRET LABIT

2X/0

11663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

SDET

0/15748-66

stated and offered evidence that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA was

to recruit him and give him training in arms and explosives, even

within the Spanish Embassy, and instruct him in organizing an

espionage network for the illicit procurement of military, economic

and political intormation and in penetrating the Cuban-Spanish

Friendship Society, whose building he was to occupy in the event

the United States Government launched an armed aggression against

Cuba. He was to be given arms and equipment at the opportune

moment. In. like manner FOLGUEIRAS was instructed by the former

to distribute arms and relay guidance to counterrevolutionary

groups in the event of this aggression. The espionage ring organized

by the aforementioned is made up of eight persons who receive for said

task the amount of 250.00 US dollars monthly and the promise of

a deposit of 500,00 US dollars' in an accoutt in their names in a

Miami bank.

"Miss CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ, for her part, was entrusted by

Counselor CALDEVILIA with the mission of directing an extensive

Diazin

PAGE

7 12

- PAGES)

GROUP I

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWCHANIC IN DECLASCIEICATION

PAGE 7 ' 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 27

Doc ID: 6598311

SECRET LABITL

2X/0/

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

SARADETE

0/15748-66

espionage network in various State organizations, such as the

Ministries of the Sugar Industry, Industries, Foreign Trade and

Education, and the National Bank of Cuba. Miss JIMENEZ GOMEZ,

on one occasion, supplied him with a directive of the nickel industry

as well as a plan and a report with specifications on the type of

arms, location, and personnel of the military installations of Managua

and Matanzas which were delivered by LUIS ANTONIO COLLAZO DENNISN((A)),

who is a deserter from the Armed Forces.

"In April 1963, when the Achives was pentrated by CIA agent

RAMON GRAU ALSIN((A)) who directed an espionage ring, a note was

found which confirmed that a certain message had been delivered to

Counselor CALDEVILLA. In June of the same year, photostatic copies

of the motions of the Student Congress on the Struggle of Peoples

Against Colonialism were delivered to him by CARMEN JIMENEZ GOMEZ.

"During the celebration in Havana of the First Solidarity

Conference of the Peoples of Africa, Asia, and Latin America,

GROUP 1

CRIDE

PAGE 8 ° 12 PAGE(s)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 8 0 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 28

• Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b (iii)

DIET

0/15748-66

Counselor CALDEVILLA attempted to obtain the names and activities

of the delegates, guests, and journalists attending, as well as

reports on its development and agreements.

"In February 1966, he gave refuge in his residency to counter-

revolutionary fugitive ALDO ABREU BACALIAO((A)), a convicted saboteur.

"The Cuban authorities have also learned through the statements

of several arrested persons, that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA uses the

pouches and enciphered Embassy cables to receive and transmit

instructions, reports, requests for information, and correspondence

related to illicit activities and is personally in charge of

deciphering messages in an office on the second floor of the chancery,

next to the office of his Secretary, and is also in charge of

reviewing and approving all of the material obtained in the country

by his numerous agents and contacts before sending it abroad.

PAGE

12

* PAGE(S)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 29

IDLA LAN

' Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

0/15748-66

"We were also able to prove the connection between Counselor

JAIME CALDEVILLA and the ex-official of the Spanish Embassy

_ALEJANDRO VERGARA ((A)), whose departure from the (5G] it was also

necessary to request, as well as the participation of both in

crimes against the integrity of the State and the illegal removal

of foreign currency and jewels from the country. Both kept as

refugees in the Spanish headquarters two telegraph operators in

charge of intercepting transmitted radio telegraph communications

by means of radio sets. They also recruited a telegraph operator

from the Ministry of Communications who was in charge of the

espionage work of that organization. At that time Counsellor

JAIME CALDEVILLA was personally concerned with verifying the reports

supplied by these two individuals, with the aid of an employee of

the Embassy, ADELA RODIL RODRIGUEZ ((A)), and CARMEN JIMENEZ GO:EZ.

He give direct orders to the latter.

"Both VERGARA and Counselor CALDEVILLA have known of the plans

for sabotage and assassinations, including those against the Prime

GROUP 1

1 727

PAGE 10. 12

PACE(s)

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

RET

ROWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 10 ° 12 PAGE(s)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 30

.. Doc ID: 6598311

2X/0/

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

0/15748-66

Minister of the Revolutionary Government, Major FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.

Both were exposed by leaders of counterrevolutionary organizations,

having offered, on one occasion, to supply to one group rifles

with telescopic sights. The authorities have proof that one or

the other maintains relations with the well-known counterrevolutionary

leader MANUEL ARTIME, whom Mr. VERGARA visited in Miami sonetime

before the mercenary invasion was crushed at Playa Giron, in

April 1961, with the knowledge of Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA.

"It has been known that Counselor JAIME CALDEVILLA has been

dedicated, furthermore, for some time, to the illegal removal from

the country through the diplomatic pouches of the Spanish Embassy

of jewels and foreign currency delivered to him by different persons,

on a basis of 20 percent of its value. In this way, the removal

from the country of the possessions of ALVARO GONZALEZ GORDON( (A))

and his wife MARIA TERESA VELASCO SARRA ((A)) was facilitated.

PAGE.

11

1.2

- PAGE(S)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

CECDIT

PAGE 11 0 12 PAGELO

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 31

:: Doc ID: 6598311

2x/01

T1663-66

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

HOCOD

0/15748-66

"You will agree with me on the importance of this matter, both

painful and regrettable, since it is the question of an official

of the diplomatic representation of a country with which Cuba

maintains normal relations.. We trust that your understanding and

• collaboration will help conclude this affair as soon as possible.

We also trust that the Spanish Government will adopt pertinent.

measures to prevent acts of this nature from recurring.

"I take advantage of this opportunity, Mr. Chargé d'Affaires,

to reiterate to you the testimony of my highest considerations."

((A)) Personal names not verified, as in text.

PAGE._

12

12 PAGE(5)

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

PAGE 12 _ 12 PAGE(S)

SECRET LARUM

---

## Page 32

#ID: 6598311

DeE:

FBI

Bagnastrel

1STVOO8B4

Para d

date

---

## Page 33

4648

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

0/0763

(Type in plair. test or corde)

(Priority or Methou of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, MBI (102-1090531

WASHINGTON FIELD 105-47047

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-60440)

SUBJECT:

IS - FRANCE

PoNAl SorRe Bureau airtels, 6/12/63 and 6/23/63-

Relative to Bureau airtel of 6/12/63, the

Bureau's attention is directed to

The Bureau's attention is directed

to their file 105-120510,n

"LAURENCE MASON

ALDERSON; IS-PRANCE.

For the information of the vro, by loster

dated 4/8/63, MY file 134-35, a request by JACQUES DERVE on

4/3/63, asked information about the ALDERSOns or 2003 Muti ingot

Houston, Texas.

His Paris Office had advised that 2. Captain

SOUETRE, a fugitive of the DAS, had received a letter fron

the ALDERSONs wishing him weil;

This letter signed TARREY

was

received in December, 1962

N8 126.

By letter dated 5/3/63, Houston forwarded

background information concerning this family.

By lepter

dated 5/21/63, the Bureau advised what information fron the

Houston letter could be furnished to HErvE.

This intormation

was given to HERVE on 5/28/63.

Bureau (105-109053)

-

Washington Field (105-47647)

I - New York (205-60440)

LHB: lac

(7)

REG 3.

105121253-27184

6 :120 1959

IT: SOO

Approved:

•Special fizant ini

Charge

Sent .

. M.

Per

---

## Page 34

• ToD 6598311

POIN

regret

dessen fo

P8zu35t388 4214

1Tan 1976

---

## Page 35

Doc ID: 6598311

JUNT ECRET TRIN

WS 3289

Cuban

3/0/

T167-67

IS 24 Feb 1936Z P

Dist: HCF

CUBAN PRESS AGENCY REQUESTS INFORMATION ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

FIGURE

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

22. Feb 67

Urgent

[OUI-OF-SERVICE MESSAGE]..

Lawr

Please send us information on the death of DAVID W

FERRIE, cited as an important figure in District Attorney

JIM GARRISON's investigation of the KENNEDY assassination.

We want to know, if possible, what factors linked

FERRIE to the case, as well as the details of his death. Was

it suicide or murder?

164-330-210-4941

NOT RECORDED

MAR 3 0 1057

0

BUREAU SOURCE - 6 Cuha

MS •-

CN =-

TI =

INDEXED

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS I PAGE (S)

TOP SECRET TRINE

#978

---

## Page 36

Doc ID: 6598311

... EVEN I RESEARCH ASSOCIATES

6 BLEECKER STREET . NEW YORK CITY 10012 - PHONE: AJ WEBERMAN (212) 477-6243

FOI/PA

J. Edgar Hoover Building

Washington, D.C. 20535

1. Under the provisions of the FOIA I would like to request all files,

reports and related reports in which his name comes up on

DAVID WILLIAM

FERRIE

MI. Ferrie was arrested in New Orleans on 2/16/62 and was assigned #107062.

His name

was mentioned repeatedly in regard to the Garrison investigation

of the JFK murder/conspiracy which took place in New Orleans. I have enclosed

a copy of a document your office sent me under FOIA which states that Ferrie

is dead.

2. Enclosed please find letter dated 14 Oct 77 from James M. Powers. I

would like to obtain all the additional material. I will pick this

material up in person when I visit the FBI FOI/PA Reading room on

November 9, 1977 if that is alright.

signed

---

