# 144-10001-10063

## Page 1

Dọc ID: 6598208

Han Kon Bu

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10063

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

A

DATE: 03/20/9/

PAGE: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO

-ER]

3/0/

13767-63:* EGYPTIAN REACTION TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S MURDER

PAGES

DOES: 12/31/63

SUBJECTS

EGYPT. REACTION TO THE ASSASSINATION

fRI

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

REPORT

1B

X

08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REOUTRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

------------- .

-..........::::s.

[R]

44USC2107(6)(1)(B)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

TOP SECHET UMBRA

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598208

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS 12591

3/0/ /73767-63

IS 31 Dec 63 P

Dist: HCO

ST 270.

EGYPTIAN REACTION TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S MURDER

23 Nov :63

Also in Cairo the murder of President KENNEDY has made a

very deep impression.

President NASSER sent the widow a moving and significant

telegram. Actually, and especially very, recently, KENNEDY

appeared, particularly as far as Egypt is

concerned, a; strong

defender of the necessity of the continuation of American economic

aid in favor of Egypt and this was. in spite.of the active

anti-Nasserian campaign [3G] by the Senate majority in Washington.

Concerning the attitude of the press. and concerning

responsibility for the murder, the position.(B.val is) still

(B val uncertain) but there is no lack of

comments

tending to indicate that KENNEDY was murdered (B: gal mainly)

for the cause of racial equality and for his actions in favor

of the colored people.

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b (iii)

MS 78T

- CN

TI -

3/0Г

T3767-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

