# 144-10001-10286

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598364

-TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/08/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSI

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-1028

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

3/01

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCO PLUS

..........-.-------

TITLE.

T72÷64*STHANOUK SPEECH CONDEMNS U.S. AND TREATS CAMBODIAN RELA

ATE : 01/17/6

AGES

ASSASSINATION,

SONJECON KENNEDY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(iii)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5,X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598364

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS

11866-68

3/0//T72-64

Jan 64 P.

Dist:

HCO Plus

SIHANOUK SPEECH CONDEMNS U.S., AND TREATS CAMBODIAN RELATIONS WITH

FRANCE AND VIETNAM

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

T3: Dec 63

• [3-part message complete]

• A visit made to the Takeo province on the 12th gave Prince

SIHANOUK an opportunity to deliver a new speech.

The United

States was violently taken to task, and the Prince announced

his decision to recall Mr. NONG KIMNY and almost all the

personnel of the Khmer Embassy in washington and to leave only

the Cultural Attaché there as Chargé d'Affaires. He justified

this step by the United States Ambassador's recent, "protest"

to the President of the Council against the "hate campaign"

initiated in cambodia following the death of Marshal THANARAT,

a campaign which did not spare President KENNEDY's memory.

Threats of a complete break were even made in the event that

the hate campaign continued.

The Prince also took up-but much more moderately-ithe

question of relations

Vietnam and stated that the

¡Vietnamese Government had already been able to seize one of

the Free

Khmer transmitting stations and hoped to discover the other

one soon.

He added that Mr. TRAN CHANH THANH, former Vietnamese

Ambassador to Tunisia, was to come to Cambodia at any moment to

mand that a to

begin negotiations. but that he was maintaining the five

conditions that he had set up for the resumption of normal.

relations with South Vietnam.

Finally, the Chief of State announced the forthcoming arrival

of Mr. MESSMER and a French delegation and expressed his confidence

in President DE GAULLE, "who

Cambodia; but;" he strongly

emphasized, "it will be necessary for France to respect the

3/01

T72-64

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 2 PAGES

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

Doc ID: 6598364

TOP SECRET DINAR

3/0/

IT 72-64

dignity of Cambodia, which the latter will not give up at any

price."

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

biii)

MS

57

CN

TI 13 Dec 63

-2-

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

