# 144-10001-10155

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598290

DATE: 12/11/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD NUMBER

AGANER :

NSA

144-10001-10155

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

NSA

BEBB, GARDNER, BERRY,

ERJ

TITLE

REPORT ON EXAMINATIÓN OF MATERIAL RELATED TO LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE

DATE : 06/15/64

PAGES

: 78

USE OF GRILLE SYSTEM/RUSS NOVEL "GLAZA KOTORYE SPRASHIVAYUT"

LTR FOR THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION

U

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

X

07/13/97

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(v)

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

FOR OFFICIA." PR ONLY

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598290

SECRET

#ANDLE VIA COMANT CHANNELS ONLY

15 tu 124.

MIMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Reportion Examination of Naterial

Related to lee Barvey Oswald Case

The undersigned have examined all the material relating

to the lee Harvey Oswald case provided to us by the warren

commission and have found no indication that any of the

items was used for a cryptographie purpose or for passing

secret information:

A detailed examination of the dictionaries fafled

to show any indication that they had been used in connection

with a dictionary code.

b.

A revlew of the letters of all the correspondents

related to the case, as well as of the Oswald Diary and

other documents, provided no suggestion of the use of an

open code.

c. Perforations which suggested the use of a grille

system appeared on two pages of the russian novel, GLAZA

KOTORYE. SPRASHIVAYUL,

"Questioning Eyes'. However, the

manner of perforating only a few letters does not conform

to any know system. For purposes of further study, we

no a ne to obtain the rege lee the novel a at nose

Ilkely that the letters were cut out for some purpose

related to Oswald's photographic experiments.

d. The appearance of the term "nicro dots" on page 44

of lee Oswald's address book aroused our suspicions.:

particularly in that it was associated with the address of

the photographic firm where he was once employed, There

was nothing to indicate to us that micro dots vere actually

used and we have had to assuma that appropriate technical

tests were made by the FBI Or CIA.

Released on 11-02-2017 under

the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

ELECTROSTATIC REFROD

• Rr.

MADE

FOR PRESERVADION PUT

1S A:

3S THE

NSA ARCHIVES FOR BEN

362807217 OF

A DETERIORATING MANUSCRIPT ITERA

NELS ONLY

HANDLE VIA COMU

SEAm

---

## Page 3

DOe ID: 6598290

SECRET

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Oswald's soviet made portable radio recelver and

Its assoclated power supply were examined and tested by

R34 with negative results. The radio (for purposes of the

testa the power supply was considered an integral part)

conformed closely to one examined by the British In 1959.

A COpy of R34's findings 1s attached.

f. The names appearing in lee's and Marina's address

books have been checked against NSA files but no COMINT

references have been aiscovered. Collateral references

held in the files have only confirmed known Information.

A copy of the report 18 attached.

In addition to the information on the addresses

developed in the personality check, a separate study of

NSA address files is being made.

• While this study 1s

not yet complete, results have no far been negative and

there is no reason to expect that anything beyond what

the personality check has already turned up will be

discovered.

Runs Belt

Ruth F. Bebb

Carrie B.Beru

Carxie B. Berryl

Meredith ki sarknes

Meredith K. cardner

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(v)

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 4

Doc ID: 6508200

SECRET

16 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR DR. TORDELLA

SUBJECT: Letter for the President's Commission

1. Please note that I have eliminated two items from the original

Memorandum for the Record on the examination of the Oswald materials.

Thase are the reference to "mioto dots" (paragraph d) and the COMINT

reference in paragraph 1.

suggest that you informally (possibly by telephone) call the

Commission's attention to the appearance of the term micro dots" on

page 44 of Oswald's address book. You might Indicate that this reference

aroused our suspicion but that we do not feel competent to make an

exhaustive examination of the materials for the presence of micro dots -

such examination should be conducted by the PBI or GIA: If micro dots

are actually found, we would be happy to collaborate to the füllest

degree required in the analysis of these dots.

23. =

I do not believe a statement that we have checked the names

against the NSA files needs to be made since:

&.?

The results were negative and

b. I identifies the existence of sensitive COMINT records.

Of course, if we had tound something, a positive report would have been

required:

4.

Mr. Arnold has reviewed the text of the letter and accepts it

as unclassified under the circumstances.

FRANK B. ROWIETT

Special Assistant to the Director

ELECTROSTATIC REPRODUCTION MADE

FOR PRESERVATIOR PURPOSES BY THE

NSA ARCHIVES FOR REPLACEMIENT OF

A DETERIORATING MARUSCRIFT ITEM

BANDLE VIA COMAT GUNNELS OILE

---

## Page 5

Doc HD: 6598290

The material relating to the Lee Harrey Oswald case provided by the

Werren Cannission was examined and there was no indication that any of

the 1tens were used for a cryptographic purpose or for passing secret

Information.

---

## Page 6

Docts: 6558290

President's Commission on the

Assassination of Prosident Kennedy

200 Maryland Avenue N.E.

Washington, D.C.

20002

ATIN: Mr. J. Lee Rankin

General Counsel

Doar Mi. Rankin;

skilled cryptologists at NSA carefully examined the materials

relating to the lee Harvey Oswald case provided by the Warren Con-

mission. The results are as follows:

a, A detailed examination of the two dictionaries revealed

no indication of their use for aryptographic purposes.

b. In the correspondence, the Oswald Diary, and the other

documets examined there were no evidences of the use of any type

of cryptography, to include the use of an open code.

C. Certain letters had been removed from pages 150 and 152

of the Russian novel, GLAZA KOTORYE SPRASHIVAYUI, "Questioning

Eyes." Eight letters had apparently been out from page 152 as follows:

Line 10

Line 11

Line 13

Line 16

Line 24

Line 25

Line 27

One letter had been removed from page 150; however no significance

Is attributed to the removal of this letter since it corresponds in exact

ELECTROSTATIC REPRODUCTION MADE

FOR PRESERVATION PURPOSES BY THE

NSA ARCHIVES FOR FEPLACEMENT OF

A DETERIORATING ROCNUSCRIPT ITEM

---

## Page 7

Đốc ID: 659829

position to one of the letters removed from page 152, it was cou-

cluded that this letter had been accidently removed by the cutting

process applied to page 152 and that its removal resuited from the

application of excessive pressure on the cutting tool when the letter

on page 152 was taken out.

The sample is considered too small for any valle conclusions to

be reached as to the purposes for which the above noted letters were

removed. It is considered most unlikely that this prooess of letter

removal has any cryptographic implication.

d. The Russian "Tourist" portable radlo was examined for

cryptologie evidence. The radio appears to be a normal raceiver and

there was no evidence of its use for any other purpose.

The names appearing in Lee's and Marina's address

books were checked. No evidence of cryptologie implication was

found.

Although the results of the examination of the materials provided

by the Commission are essentlally negative, further study of these

materials will be made. Il any rasults are obtained, the Commission

will be advised. However, it is considered most unlikely that any-

thing beyond what is reported above will be discovered.

Sincerely,

GORDON À, BLAKE

Leutenant General, USAF

Director

---

## Page 8

Doc ID: 6598290

ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: (Name. office symbol, room number,

+5:3: mowie, 4025

Data

4 Van 80

Initials

Date

(Betty Wamat)

Action

Approval

As Requested

Circulate

Comment

Coordination

File

For Clearance

For Correction

For Your Information

Investigate

Justify

Note and Return

XiPer Conversation

Prepare Reply

See Me

Signature

is the

report we die on Chacte

The Oswald Papers for

The Waste Coumcssion;

I suspect is the onle

FROM: (Name. ore sumbel Agencu/Post)

5041-102

* GPO: 1977 O - 241-530 (3450)

Room No.- Bldg.

Phone No.

OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rev. 7-76)

Proscribed by GSA

FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.206

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b(v)

---

## Page 9

Doc ID: 6598290

is the corset ine?

I added it at the

terr

---

