# 144-10001-10136

## Page 1

Doc, ID; 6598221

DATE: 03/26/97

PAGE: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

NSA

:144-10001-10136

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : G/143-78

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

NSA

FROM

RICH

TO : DIRECTOR, NSA

TITLE

HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTEE QUERY

DATE :

04/05/78

PAGES :

5

SUBJECTS

OSWALD, LEE, TRIP TO MEXICO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

MEMORANDUM, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/12/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS

SENSIT

LENTED INFORMATION

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

----

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

OKE

---

## Page 2

Doc•ID: 6598221

IL.1973 EDITION

• FPMR (41 CFRI 101.11.0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandun

SENSITIVE

TO.

THRU:

FROM

Serial: G/143-78

DATE:

5 April

1978

DDO, VEN

G

SUBJECT:

House Assassinations Committee Query

1. Attached is our proposed response to the queries passed to us from

the House Assassinations Committee:

The information requested was supposed

to be for the period 1959 - 31 December 1974. However, our first successfu

interception of Cuban agent communications was on /

2. The source products from which we extracted the attached informa-

series.

were published in the Category III TRIG and DENT, US/UK EYES ONLY

We believe we have done sufficient sanitization so that, when the

association with NSA is removed, the text could be releasable as national

TOP SECRET, Sensitive.

NERe

R. E. RICH

Chief,

G

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

biii)

Released on 11-02-2017 under

the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

MANOL.

MA DO MINT GHANNELS ONLY

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plen

---

## Page 3

Doc.ID: 6598221

SENSITIVE

CUBAN AGENT ACTIVITY IN THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE 1959-31 DECEMBER 1974

Cuba used agents for intelligence and subversion in North, Centra

and South America; Africa; and Asia.

In the Western Hemisphere during the early sixties, diplomatic

cover became less

available to the Cubans, and by spring of 1962,:

• Cuba had diplomatic

relations with only one-third of the Latin America

countries.

Cuba's interest in fomenting discord and promoting revolu-

tion obviously grew as she became more isolated officially from the

rest of the hemisphere, and the Cuban General Directorate of Intelli-

gence (DGI) inevitably increased its reliance on illegal/clandestine

agents. By the time of the Cuban "missile crisis" in Octöber 1962.

Cuba was known to be

By the end of 1964, Cuba enjoyed formal relations in the hemisphere

with only Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, and the United Nations in New York.

.....

-

INSLE WA CULT GMANNELS ONLY •

AUSC2107(6XgX24D)

---

## Page 4

DoG ID: 6598221

SAALLITINE

The Cuban government still claims U.S, government direction and fundin

of the organization whose claimed activities included night raids

along the Cuban coast, infiltration of'agents into Cuba, harassment

I the Cuban armed forces, and weapons drops to counter-revolutionar

groups on the island

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

2

MANGLE VIA COMME CHANNELS ONLY

---

## Page 5

Doc ID: 6598221

ANY MATERIAL RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY OR

ANY INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION.

We have reviewed the Cuban materials previously compiled to

respond to SSCI and Church Committee hearings.

The only information

regarding the KENNEDY assassination which surfaced might be termed

reactive; that is, it reflects some of the reactions of the Cuban

government to the assassination. Army and Navy elements in Eastern

Cuba were placed on alert status on 22 November, apparently in

reaction to news of the President's death.

This action was probably

a reflection of the Cuban government's paranoia over a possible

military action against Cuba, possibly originating from the U. s.

Navy Base at Guantanamo.

That the Cubans were sensitive to suggestion

that they might be implicated in the KENNEDY assassination is very

evident in the following 25 November press release from the Cuban

Foreign Ministry:

"With relation to the information published today ( (25 November) )

in the newspaper EXCELSIOR in Mexico City, affirming that

LEE HARVEY OSWALD had requested a transit visa for travel

to the

Soviet Union at the Cuban Consulate in Mexico in September, the Cuban

Government requested information from the officials of our Consulate

in that city confirming that it is certain that MI. LEE HARVEY OSWALD

requested the transit visa for travel to the Soviet Union on

27 September in the said consulate.

"On being informed by the consular officials that their office

could not grant such a visa without the authorization of the Cuban

Ministry of Foreign Relations, which likewise would not grant it if

it was not previously authorized by the country of destination,

Mr. Oswald left the Consulate visibly disgusted.

"The said visa was never granted.

"This detail, in connection with the other circumstances that

surrounds the facts, confirm our suspicion that the assassination of

KENNEDY was a provocation against world peace, perfectly and thoroughl

planned by the most reactionary sectors of the United States.

"It is evident that these sectors planned beforehand to involve

Cuba

and

the Soviet Union in these deeds.

"The inconceivable and inexplicable impunity with which an

individual of known penal antecedents assassinated OSWALD, the

principal accused of the assassination of President KENNEDY, in

the presence of

the

police themselves and in the basement of

prison, demonstrates in a scandalous and indisputable manner

that

the powerful reactionary political forces within the United States

are making use of all their resources and influences in order to

conceal those who master-minded KENNEDY's assassination, and

the

true motives for it.

MANGEL VIA GURANT

Pear

---

## Page 6

- Đoc HD: 6598221

SENSITIVE

"World public opinion demands the enlightening of the deeds.

It is absurd that the political authorities and the prosecutino

attorney of Dallas

have declared that the case is closed when hardly

48 hours have passed

since a

deed of so great a result as the

assassination of the President of the United States. "

hANDLE VIA COMET CHANNELS ONLE

2

П......

---

