# 144-10001-10369

## Page 1

Đoc ID: 6598419

TOP SECRET UMBRA

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

DATE: 10/09/98

PAGE: 1

AGENCY : NSA

RECORD NUMBER : 144-10001-10369

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

b (iii)

ORIGINATOR:

NSA

FROM

NSA

TO : HCF

-------------

TIII

..............:::

3/0,

-7456-63

FOREIGN MINISTER EVALUATES PRESIDENT JOHNSON

PAGES: 11/26/63

SUBJECTS:

JOHNSON, LYNDON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS :

[R]

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DRV FM: NSA/CSS Manual 123-2

Dated: 24 February 1998

DECL ON: X1,X3,X5, X6,X7,X8

TOP SECRET UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598419

TOP SECRET DINAR

WS B-3572

•----- - - - -

... ....-

3/0.

T456-63

IS 26 Nov. 1749Z P

Dist:

HCF

ST 300*-

FOREIGN MINISTER EVALUATES PRESIDENT JOHNSÓN.

23-Nov 63

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

Reference my telegram

following question:

(A)) . I also answered: the

Question:

Mr. Minister, might I also ask you a question!

You have met Mr. LYNDON JOHNSON several times.

May we ask you,

on the basis of the conversations which you had with him in

what your impressions of the new President of the

United States are?

Answer:

Well. It is true that I had the good fortune to

have talks with the new President of the United States, scarcely

two weeks ago, and these talks inspired my confidence. : I had

the feeling that the Vice President completely shared President

KENNEDY's political ideas. I believe that he is a very. ex-

perienced man and that there is no reason to doubt his wish to

follow President KENNEDY's policy. Therefore it is necessary

to have confidence and to work with him with' the same desire for

co-operation as that which we showed to President KENNEDY.

((A)) Available if required; [The Foreign Ministry transmits to

Embassy Washington

by

radio on 23 November on the death of President KENNEDY.]

MS 974

CN

TI --

3/01

T456-63

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE(S)

TOP

SECRET. DINAR

Released on 11-02-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

