# 144-10001-10282

## Page 1

Doc Ref ID: A4268787

JATE: 10/00/9

PAGE:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

NSA

144-10001-10282

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

JRIGIMEROM : INVESTIVI

INVESTIY

TO

TITLE

PRESS ARTICLE ABOUT PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S MURDER

DATE

AGES: 38/1816

PERIODICAL SUBJECTS :

DOSSTENCATTON: PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMEN

DATE CURREN SEE CREAS

FULL

CURRENT STATUS

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 2

"Doc Ref ID: A4268787

1966

10287

Xlated by

a flemine

August 1466

"47464

, NEW FACTS ABOUT KENNEDY'S MURDER

Izvestiya, 18 August 1966, page 3

Unsigned

Editorial note: The very large Swiss publishing house

Schweizer Verlaghaus is publishing a book written by an American

author of German origin, Joachim Josten, The Truth About the Kennedy

Murder. In view of the secrecy which continues to enshroud the

sensational book was arrested by the Zurich police and, after being

interrogated, was put in solitary confinement for psychiatric examina-

tion.

It was only as a result of the intervention of his relatives that

he was released. However, the police issued a warrant for the author's

arrest and Josten was forced to leave switzerland.

"Couddn't it be,"

the Swiss newspaper Voix Ouvrier asks,

"that he was arrested because he

also knows party of the terrible truth?"

* * *

If you are one of those perspicacious people who felt fron the very

beginning

that there is something "terribly wrong" in the Kennedy murder

case, you will undoubtedly want to read this book, even if it means that

you will first have to learn German to do so. We are dealing with a book that is

the only one, out of all that have been published anywere, in which the author

not only points out the obvious absurdity, blatant falsity, ant numerous

distortions and omissions, and the irreconcilable contradictions of the report

issued by the Warren Commission, but also advanced a very plausible version

of what actually happened in Dallas on 22 November 1963.

1,63 plausible the son

Actually, this is what happened there: Oswald, a shady character, but

a person who was not guilty of the murders foisted on him by the Dallas

police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and, finally, the Warren

Cornission, was only a previously selected scapegoat for an influential group

of conspirators whose coparticipants hold in their hands mighty levers of

power.

They knew that as soon as their vile deed was done, they would have no

reason to fear retribution, since, in essence, Kennedy's murder was an

excellently organized political crime, which was thought out in such a way that

It "automatically" provided a complete guarantee of safety for the murderers

and their henchmen.

- 1 -

Released on 10-26-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

---

## Page 3

"Doc Ref ID: A4268787

10282

police, the FBI, the CIA, and a

entirely from the Warren Report itself and the court records.

He writes in

the first chapter of his book:

The Warren Commission undoubtedly did a tremendous amount of work.

It had at its disposal an unprecedentedly rich supply of sensational

information which previously had escaped the attention of observers,

since no mention was made of it in the reports which got into the

press prior to that. Hoever, a person who critically studies this

material and who does not allow himself to be thrown off the track

by the previously fabricated conclusions of the Warren Commission

cannot fail to be struck by an astonishing truth: Oswald was not

guilty; he was made the "patsy" for the real murderers. And actually,

on the basis of the Warren Report one can clearly see the outlines of

an almost improbably cunning plot which was supported by "big money"

and mercilessly carried out to its conclusion.

However paradoxical

it sounas,

the truth is that the Warren Cornission, after successfully

"digging up" a multitude of facts pertaining to the Kennedy murder,

contrived to issue a verdict which is entirely contradictory to what

it actually discovered.

Therein lies the entire essence of the matter. Careful analysis

of the report issued by the commission shows without a doubt that, in

a deliberately and intentionally scandalous manner, it distorted

justice in the name of falsely understood "state considerations" which

were turned topsy-turvy. By no means are we discussing the personal

integrity and conscientiousness of the Chief Justice of the Supreme

and objectivity of their investigation, and that da a completely

Earl Warren, or his assistants. We are discussing the integrity

different matter.

The Warren Commission deliberately distorted the truth concerning the

murder, bein guided by two basic reasons: first, its own investigation showed

completely reliably that Oswald had never been a real Marxist, and had only

to get access to the Soviet Union and then to Cuba. Herein lies the "mainspring"

of the monstrous deception which was heaped upon the world public by the authors

of the official version of the murder.

For the same reason the Warren Commission

went its materials to the National Archives, where some of them have been

stamped "Top Secret" and where they will be

concealed from the public's fixed

attention for 75 more years.

It is claimed that this is a matter of national

security, but actually this is one nore brilliant example of how wretchedly the

CIs works and the illegal tricks that it resorte to.

Second, the conmission was aifaid that if it told the country the whole

truth, that would cause a public explosion whose force could practically be

compared with that of an earthquake.

These petty fears are completely unfounded.

The American people is sufficiently matue to recognize the truth about the

nores of the political jungle. Even so, it will leam that truth in the fein

near future.

- 2-

---

## Page 4

* Doc Rêf ID: A4268787

10282

The book which we are discussing consists of 40 chapters and is

divided into five parts.

illustrations.

It contains 360 pages of text and 16 pages of

It will be published early in September 1966 by one of the

largest publishing houses in switzerland.

It will be given a prominent place

at the forthcoming book fair in Frankfurt and will undoubtedly attract

attention throughout the world.

In the first part ("Mister Warren's Fairy Tabe") the author acquaints

the readers with many of the absolutely absurd aspects of the Warren Report,

In which pseudoscientific banter is combined with statements made in the

spirit of Mother Goose.

Part two ("Ihe Real Oswald and His Disguise") contains 19 chapters,

in which the author throws light upon very important aspects of the entire

matter: Oswald's close involvement in the secret-service intrigues, which,

in the final analysis, backfired on him.

A careful analysis of his stay in

the soviet Union proves that he was sent there as a spy by the Central

Intelligence Agency, but that he completely flubbed his assignment. Later,

upon returning to his homeland, Oswald became an informer and agent provocateur

for the FBI, posing as a provocateur agitator, whereas his real goal was to

prepare an alibi in order, under the guise of a "Red", to get to Cuba. All

these attempts of his failed. This is explained partially by his own ineptness

and partially by the ineptness of his chiefs.

The third part ("Oswald's Disguise and His True Face") is devoted to a

detalled examination of the most sensational and, at the same time, the most

alarming detail in the entire "Oswald Case"; he had a "double," a young

man who was so strikingly similar to lee Harvey that dozens of people confused

The large number of facts cited in the Warren Report but, with the

most innocent air, assigned to oblivion by the commission proves that fact

completely.

That person - who, judging by everythins, was another agent of

the CIA - deliberately gave testimony discrediting the real Oswald long

before Kennedy's murder occurred. And here is a curious thing: the Warren

Report even names that sinister double. It was Larry Crawford, a henchman

of Ruby's and a "Jack of all trades," including murders.

In the fourth part of his book ("How the Truth Was Squelched"') the author

discusses the numerous ruses and dishonest machinations set in motion b, the

Dallas police and the FBI in order to deliberately heap the blame on Oswald

(and also to cover up their own involvenent in the murder).

In this part of

the book the author tells how the "guardians of the law fabficated or falsified

very important material evidence; how witnesses were forced to give false

testimony or were intimidated or prompted; how the testimony of other witnesses

was falsified or completely squelched; how the autopsy report was forged;

how the FBI and the secret service agents "re-created" an absolutely false

picture of the crime; and, finally, how the Warren Cormission cynically covered

up all these monstrous violations and repeated them.

In the fifth part ("Bloody Repercussions of the Murder in Dallas") the

reader learns that since the murder occurred at least 13 people have been

killed or have died under suspicious circumstances since, in one way or another,

they came in contact with the awful truth hidden behind the shroud of falsifica-

tion and deception that had surrounded the Kennedy murder.

- END -

-B-

---

