# 144-10001-10052

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6598211

TOP SUCHAT UMBRAE: 1/20111

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

IGENCY

NSA

RECORD NUMBER

144-10001-10052

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSA

FROM

TO

NSA

3/0/W/T1919-63T REPORT ON CUBA'S INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH REBELS

PAGES : 11/22/63

SUBJECTS

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CASTRO, FIDEL

CLASSIFICATION

DOCUMENTA TYPE: REPORT

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA

ORIGINATING AGENCY'S DETERMINATION REQUIRED

COMMENTS

CONTAINS SENSTTTVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note)

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

my pitca

UMBRA

---

## Page 2

Doc ID: 6598211

TOP SECRET DINAR

SHINO FOREIGN DISSEMENATION FXXXXXX75XX368+xxxXX****x*********:

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Reproduction of this document in

whole or in part is prohibited

except as specifically authorized

by the DIRECTOR, NATIONAL

SECURITY AGENCY.

WS 348

REPORT ON-CUBA'S INTERNAL PROBLEMS WITH REBELS

3/0/w/T1919-63

22 Nov 63

1D Oct 63 [M]

Routine

44USC2107(5)(g)(2)(D)

On 7 October

reported fron Havana:

Comments on FIDEL's speech of 28 September.

Cuba's foreign policy and its

attitude toward the Moscow Treaty are determined by the aggressive activities of

the United States. General relaxation may not be applicable to the Caribbean area.

1o The coups in Honduras and the Dominican Republic, and the rise of

reactionaries in Venezuela, he ties in with coordination of operations against

20

Smuggling of arms to the capitol is on the increase.

The underground

is switching to a long-range harassment supported by pirate activities from the

outside. In September the government carried out massive military operations in

the Escambray and Matanza areas.

The Cuban counterrevolutionaries and Cubans from Central America

heavier underground traffic in men and arms for November and December.

4. I believe that the approaching Presidential elections in the United

States will strengthen reactionary forces from within and without. Immediate US

aggression is out of the question.

Therefore, there is a need for a strong gorilla

(sic collar around Cuba. Simultaneously, the economic blockade is being intensi-

fied. This is dictated by the consequent "anti-imperialistic lines of our own

foreign policy." On the whole, in their opinion, relaxation is due to the peace-

ful policy pursued by the soviet Union, but they attribute this, first of all, to

their own position.

MS --

CN --

HI --

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

TOP SECRET DINAR

Released on 11-01-2017 under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2017 Note

---

