# 157-10004-10284

## Page 1

157-10004-10284

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10284

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 109-584

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NEW YORK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DATE : 12/10/68

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

~ INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

CUBAN OPERATIONS

CASTRO

ASSASSINATION PLOTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32202173

Page 1

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUWENT,

as souitize?

---

## Page 2

39768n

rollins (4: 511) 191-11.81

UNITED STATES GOVERAMENT

Memorandu

SECRET

GIAHAS NO ORIECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OB-

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

SSCI BOX

7123/98

DATE:

ГО

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

12/10/68

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253) (P)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT GMBZ-MAY

as sumitriad

ANTT-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVICIES

IS-CUEA

9803.Fe2d/ruds 2-29/94

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEFT

(1)(4)

BaBulot to ITY: 7/1/68, captioned as above, and iro

IB

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

(5) iottor

captioned as

"CAntos

ENOLO PLAD Y DOL PINO".

above, onclosing bill entitled,

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 11 conies of

an It soütipe corth araules of the intervien conducien on

12/5/68 with

During the interview of

his[S]

relationship with CIA vas discussed, ma

navised that

he had no current working arrangenent wits un.

nor has C%A

reauasted him to perfort any

CASINO ms uncovered in 1965.

erians alnge the pot aarnet

caid that he doestsy

have periodically a social call

at a da represent 223.

Iron a CIA recrosentative au

did montion that from time to time he is contacied

Biated that when the plot against CASTRO ine

uncovered in

the Fall of 19u, cIA dropped their relationshir

with him, as the discovery of the plot and the sausecuent

arrests in Havana and alsa the dismissal of the lita norsonal

184 344

9803-Rddh

OADR

Ciassifed I

Declassify on:

@-Bureau (Encls. 11) (FIs) REC6S / 0%

584-4783

I-Miami (105-1'7442)

(oncle 1) (Info) (Re)

INfo (105-29955) (Encl. 1) (Info) (Ri:)

I-New

York

i-do

FJO:MIW

(5)

REVIEWED BULBIJFK TASK FORCE

State/CIN/Scoret Sorvice TAOTSD.

Army/davy/Air

Coordinator of Cutoa Acrile, State E RELEASE IN FULL

By R/S FOl

Data 226 wilie

• RELEASE IN PRI

I TOTAL DENIAL.

DEC

18

Milo ruinee Bands Recultily,

REpoll Swines Plain

HW 50955

DocId: 32202173 Page 2

L:

---

## Page 3

SSCI burr

377÷

18X 105-35253

and snocificall mentioned

1B

staïed that since 1900 del

1E5391457559

Phas had no vorking relationshir

vaun chi, cha de recis that his isérulness to the CIA, because

of the incident,

is now finished.

most cordial during the interview'and

at the conclusion, süated that if at any

• time the Bureau rould

have need of his servicas, he would be most willing

in any manner.

las euvised thet if any situation duEs

arise in ühe

future in which he could be of assistance, he would

be contacuad.

RECEIVED COMM

MAY

SECRET

-2*-

7TH 50955 DOCId: 32202173

Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITE STATES DEPORTAROY OF 10.01K

In Airply, P'irreso Kofir 10

Hile No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

December 10, 1968

SSCI BOX it 377-

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is limited. to official proreedings by

nation.ortside com Committce.

your Commi!''e al the contont may not br disclosid to walliorized person

me without the express appronal af the FBl.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED:

DATE 2-24-94 Bx T803Rdammae

Carlos Antonio Piad y Del Pino

Carlos Antonio Pied y Del Pino, n Cuban exile

restring in leonaraton, b. C.

had been interviewed br

ropresentatives of the federal Barucu of Invoctigation (23t

in Urshingion. D. Co. on June o, 1900, rolative to a

"roport"

alloging groac discontont in Cuba arainst Prine Minister

Fidol Castro nich he had receivoa. Piad stated thei tha

"soport" vas fron a fonale priord in Cuba whom he deciined

to identify, and he said that this "report"

was received

in the maii addrossed to his vife. Piad also said that ha

did not now havo this written

"ronort" which was recoirad

from the woman in Cuba.

Fiud said that he vas cortain thai

there was an apparatus in oberation

in Cube which was rightine

Prive Minister Castro, but "reports" were vague and he hod no

alane ison di dolin anitar

Died we of the aninion that

could

throw more light on the matter.

Piad, In a leticr to the FBI dated June o, 1900,

among other things, furnished the following:

"I am totally ignorant of onv blans which

or his friends night have. This is

only sowething I have been made avare of.

without

being able to furnish anything concretely, I did

wish to bring to the attentiond the Department

of state something they cusht to know about.

can say that I have friends in the

and that I understand they have never beensroup

cormunists, out ronert that T have not hac

contact with

r his friends

up to noir. I have haa only a report from a

female friend from Havana ino has knowledge

So RECEn

this matter

This document contairs neither recommendations

nor conclusions oi the ist. It the property MaY 1y's

of the Ill and is loaned to your arency; it and

Its contents are not to ve distrivuted outside

your arency.

DUJ

HM 50955 DocId: 32202173 Page 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR®

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

12÷7-94

ee (1(A)

---

## Page 5

SSCI BOX i

377.-

Corlos Antonio Plad y Del Pino

"This Is more or less the substance of ill that

I wanted to bring to tin attontion of the Poenrtment

of state so that they

mirnt know about that appcared

to be a pion armed at

ascrosination of Castro,

and that it appoared that

his friendo wore involved

in ju in sore way.

as a dennerous man, and I. cired che

recently to assassinaie.

I explained chet

tron mat

I have read Bounedierna is one of the moot

closaly

guarded men in the world ocher chen Castro

and that

It is unpredictable what le is going to do."

was intorvices on miahar 5. 1058

President oi tha

Incorporated, and also di the fim,

of Milan, Isaly.

Eoth these firms are trested on the third

floor of the buildin

New York Caüy:

and

In aaaaron to bat above-

ninetona couponicad

also connected wich the

store in Coreva,. Silureriana

In connection with his

which is operatiod birt

business.

trevels

frequently to Europe, particulaily to Italy, Spain and Franco.

advised that in 1966 thare was a conspiracy

to assassinate Prime Minister Fidel Castro,

and that he had s

part in this plot.

Dazing the period 196t,

1965 and 1965,

stated that he was on good relations with members

the Cuban Government who were assigned to posts

I and also with the mambors of the Cuban

Mission to the United Nations.

catca as 3 result

of these contrets, he was trusted oy mombers of the Cuban

Government and was in a position to outain information vi value

which was of assistance at that time in working out details

of the plot to k11l Prime Minister Fidel Castro.

the rest to out matart ita

statal when the plot was uncovered in 1966.

advised that

Major Rolando Cubair, scenaes, a young doctor was picken

up in Ravana torether with others Involved in the piot. and

cubala une contancadila 25 roar in pricon

MAY s01976

- 2-

NN 50955 DooId: 32202173 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SSCI BOX #*

377-

Carlos Antonio Piad y Del Pino

stated that after the discovory of this plot,

al1 his convact miüh rcpresentatives o1 the Cuban Government

and concilates in foreign countries ceased.

Suated that he was no longer treated by anyone

within

coverment and, hence, lost contact with iriends in

Favone, Cuba.

contech or even susauto

although ho lioil

in tinearine

also stated that since the discovery of

the plot in 1y00,

although lie i

has 20d no rurther contact tri.th

somatime

also kaoun as

200, leril

and currently as resicing ir

where he is menoring

a Cuban figntor uno is alleged to be a European boxing champion.

tated that he knows that there is much unrost

-and discontont irithin Cuba today, but he has no monadge on

any details of any plot wich could exist against l'idel Castro

in Cuba today.

RECEIVEN COMMA

-3*-

50933

Doc1d: 32202173

Page

6

---

