# 157-10005-10325

## Page 1

157-10005-103257

813198

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 10/06/93

Page: 1

AGENCY : SSLIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10325

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R2087

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

CORRESPONDENCE

DATE : 12/00/750

PAGES : 520

SUBJECTS :

LTRS REQUESTING DOCUMENTS FOR JFK INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/06/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 446-4

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32202515

---

## Page 2

SEAR

L 1008

Box 446-149

103.25

SSCI BOX #

446÷4

SEL COM

FILE

R - 2081

December 31, 1975

Mr. Walter Elder

Review Staff

Central Intelligence Agency

Langley, Virginia

Dear Walt:

"Tis the time of year to put all things aright. In chis

spirit let me run through a list of unrequited bita and pleces.

Would you be so kind as to provide the Committee with the

following:

1) A statement on the relationship of Humphrey Evans to che

Humphrey Evang in the author of The Thought

Could you also

and Robert Loh.

These two men were the subject of

Humphrey'a books.

2)

Access to cha files on the Vietnam Council on Foreign

Relätions.

We would like to know the relationship, 1f

any, of the Agency to the Council including whatever

assistance the U.S. government may have provided to the

publication and distribution of the Viet Nan Magazine.

3)

A statement from the Central Intelligence Ageney on the

Penkovsky.

didn't know? How valnable was that Information?

difference did it make?

4)

Information on or acceas to the files on Lem Jones Associates,

New York.

tionary Couneil in the 1960'a.

??!

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

•DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED 3, May 44 ew

NW 50955

DocId:32202515 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SEL COM*

Informntion on Richard I. Mal

nome tina ago I anted you on the phen

€o,

mmten on the Walker publikine comp

Doerpher 34, 1579

Inserely yours,

millen I. leder

122.

Melter sidar

terie Seatt

Contesi Inceiligence suncy

Langloy, Virginia

-Dear Walt:

In connection with the Cormittee's work on the Agency

Matory we vould Ilke to requeat a atarletionl breakdom en

cas nabers of employees in each dutponent

(aivletes-level

i the squiralmat) for the yesrs aperifled

Sach composes

should be idencified rad, if possible, a alosinastes should

be made between profassional

Level.

tha years axe:

1946, 2942, 2947, 2054: 1935, 1951%

1960, 1965, 1970 nad 1973, for cho beso vouce pa vost alre

I1ka tha sotal nimber of concoset oursensed entoyed or sach

directorate (os cha equivalene)

We would apprectate:

saone nachon os Suas regaeet.

Thank you.

Blocerely.

PilLen G. MilLer

AK: ib

WBB: hb

SECRET

955

DocId:32202515 Page 3

---

