# 157-10011-10041

## Page 1

157-10011-10041

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10041

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCI

FROM

:

TO

TITLE :

TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING DATED JULY 16, 1975

DATE: 07/16/75

PAGES : 69

SUBJECTS :

TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING; TESTIMONY OF PROUTY,

L. FLETCHER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box number 283, Folder 6

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH. 50955

DocId: 32203809

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

19

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

5

6

UL

WARD &

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NY 50955 DocId: 32203809 Page 2

they operate and the difference between a contact at a pro-

prietary firm, like Air America or

Incorporated or the

Mullen Company would contact, you deal with contact men, some

of whom were military who are cleared, but others are agency

who are in there.

Like

was in the Pentagon, he was an

Agency employee, he was not a military man. So when air lines

contacted

they thought they were contacting a military

man, but he was really an employee of the Agency, for other

reasons. But he was a contact man. So there was an array of

different contact men.

Now, in that elaborate context Schort. approached the

subject, and he said, were there contacts in the White House?

And I said, well, sure. Being the senior members of NSC

we had contact for our Forty Committee work, and then 54/12

Committee, and we knew who to deal with in the White House.

And he said, well, were there ever any otherkind of

contacts?

And I said, the only POW contact was a very slight thing

tied up with the Mullen Company, and then went on into the

story.

And the only way that I heard about the contact was,

not that I was able to say that Butterfield was the

contact, but that they brought up the name of Butterfield, and

they said, we will get this business done --

TOP SECRET

---

