# 157-10014-10067

## Page 1

157-10014-10067

Date : 08/06/95

Page

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10014-10067

RECORDS SERIES

: HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 09-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

SSCIA

TWEEDY, BRONSON

TO

TITLE :

DATE: 09/09/75

PAGES

76

SUBJECTS

: CONGO

ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955

DoeId: 32423455

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECREE QUOME

00L1.023

TION

ubject

Report of P'roceedings

3/322

Hearing held belore

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmantal

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Cade

Tuesday, September 9, 1975

Washingtoni, D.C."...

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over

to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E.

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

NATA

---

## Page 3

nash

phone (A181 202) 398-4006

3105.001 510006, 96. 190919911000, 1, 0 19.901

TOP SECRET

CONTENTS

1

2

TESTIMONY OF.

Bronson Tweedy

EXHIBITS

5

6

8

10

1:

1?

11

NUMBER

Tweedy Exhibit No. 1

Tweedy Exhibit No. 2

Tweedy Exhibit No. 3

Tweady Exhibit No. 4

Tweedy Exhlbit No. 5

Tweedy Exhibit No. 6

Tweedy Exhibit No.7

(The above exhibits were retained by counsel.)

11.:

...

25

MAT:

TOP SECRET

ire"

PAGE

3

44

47

49

50

56

62

65

---

## Page 4

thomas/nash

Priora 1Arar 2021 518-8000

1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

14

15

.*

1.

1:

199ut toot.64. 409.099.11 19990)

=====-a--

TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Tuesday, September 9, 1975

∞ n =

United States Senate,

Select Committee to study Governmental

operations with respect to

Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D.C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at l:ls p...

In Room 443, Russoll Office Building, Senator Walter F.

Mondale presiding.

Present: Senator Mondale (preading).

Also present:

Rhett Dawson and Frederick Baron,

Professional Staff Members.

--.

......

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

mant (Arto 207) 394-4000

1

2

3

4

8

10

12

1"

14

26

1=.=

25

TOP SECRET

2

Senator Mondalo. Do you swear the testimony you are

about to give will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing

but the truth, so help you God?

MI. Tweedy. I do.

Mr. Baron. Mr. Tweody, are you aware that you have

the right to counsel here today?

Mr. Tweedy.

I am.

Mr. Baron.

And are you appearing voluntarily here

today without counsel?

Mr. Twoedy. I am.

(At this point, the hearing was removed to Room 608,

Carroll Arms Hotcl.)

Mir. Baron.

Are you also aware that all of your

Constitutional rights are intact before the Committee, Includ-

Ing your fifth Amendment rights?

Mr. Tweedy. I am.

Mr.. Baron. Mr. Tweedy, are you aware that you have

the right to cease answering questions

at

any time and

consult with an attorney?

Ur. Tweedy, Yes. I gather thit was implicit in whos

you

said in the Senator's office.

Mr. Baron.

It was.

low, that we

are no longer in the Senator's presence

a would like to make it clear to you that you are under no

obligacion to continue testifying, although the Committec

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

202) 346

•AUN

- 1929900980, 190 100a1

+ 0.

1H

1

2

6

7

8

9

10

1:

12

1:

14

15

16

1':

1i:

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

3

would obviously appreciate it it you would.

Are you willing to do so?

Mr. Tweedy.

I have no intention of not cooperating.

Mr. Baron. And you are willing to continue to testify

to the truth as best you can?

Mr. Tweedy. Indeed I will.

MI. Baron.

Perhaps we should begin by putting on the

record a bit of your background in Agency activities leading

to the point at which you assumed the position as Chier of

the African Division.

TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY

H5. Twoodly, I came aborad the Agency in the first o:

May, 1347 and aftor training was sont to

returned in 1950 and

did a scries of desk jobs

in what was rain

as the Central Furopean Division, I guess, and went through

a number of different assignments at that time, until say?

of 1953 when I went out as Chief of Station to

I was there until the middle of 195g and returned very

Station there. I took over as Chief of station there in the

middle of 1958 and sas thee replaced by Frank Wisner, in

15-1

arly in October 1959, and I took over the

African Division I should think somewhere around between the

15ch and 18th of Hovember 1959.

That brings me up to date.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

Tognit (9180 703) 316-4000

-*~

. rashandle. 1ll 10001

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

1:

14

15

1€

1?

1i:

2 : *

22.

i!

25

TOP SECRET

Mr. Baron. And how long did you sorve as Chie fof

the African Division?

MI. Tweedy, Until september of '63.

MI. Baron. In that pogition did you consult frequent

with people in policy-making positions at the State Department?

- MI. Tweedy.

Well, as I was explaining to you as we

were strolling around, the aimple answer to that is yes.

These consultations would take many, many different forms.

On the Congo, for example, the State Napartment

obviously was just as involved as praculeally the rest of the

U.s. Government and they had a Congoles task force.

would attend their meetings or a representative of mine would

attend their meetings.

They took place almost daily,

sometimes I guess even

more than once daily.

MI. Baron. During what period of time?

Mr. Tweedy.

oh, boid, from the time the Congo thin;

really hotted up, and I am talking then particularly under tir

Kennedy Administration, when Mionnon Williams organized the

tast. force and Wayne Fredericks was his deputy; those mecc-

ings were State's

meetings, they weren't CiA mortings, thre

weren't rectings primarily to discussi

the CiA policy, but

No had to be there to maintain, to keep abreast of what the

policy was.

Mr. Baron. If we could focus our attention on the

period between the independence of the Congo in June of '60

and the announg prop stickEt" Luminba in february of '1.

---

## Page 8

Trona (Aras 202) 344-6006

de!, 88. Mashin9l.n, D06 i9001

6

7

8

9

10

11

1t:

13.

14

15

2 €

2:

24

i!

TOP SECRET

5

Mr. Tweedy.

Whe that the month of his death?

Mr. Baron.

The month the death was announced.

As you know, there is a lot of mystery surrounding his

death and the probable cause of his death, AS far as the u.:.

Investigation was concerned it was January 17 or perhaps

January 18, 1961.

Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

Mr. Baron. What was the nature of your contact with

the State Department during that period of time?

MI. Tweedy. My Iccollection of thin is far less

Congo and far more general, is I was mentioning to you as

we strolled, and

particularly my talks with Jim Penfield, tr.

whom Joe Satterswate was

dedicated.

Toe Satterswate, who was Assistant Secretary for

African Nffairs, and Penfield and

I were colleagues in Vienn.

together. lie had the minister.

But we did a great deal c

talking together about CIA deployment in Africa. I was

forming a division both at home and abroad and i had à lor

22

of things to negotiate with him

and he naturally had his view's on a lot of the thin:.

we wanted! to do, and we

spent a areat deal of time arguin

these things out, making arrangements

iand so.on and so

fore!:.

To be frant with you, I have far less recollection ali

intinato policy talks on places like thr Congo with that

particular group than 1 did after 19-what, the beginning o!

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

Bro (9148 2021508-600

109 use 80a1, 18, last g00. 100 .

1

2.

5

21-2-=

10

1:

1:

i.

2:

25

TOP SECRET

6

the Kennedy Adminiatration.

Mr. Baron. It was during the Kennedy Administration

that the large scale paramilitary operations in the Congo were

scared Ups.

MI. Tweedy. A11 that happened then, absolutely.

MI. Baron. Do you remember discussions with Livingstone

Merchant in the State Department before the turn of Adminia-

trations?

NI. Tweedy.

I knew Livingstone Merchant but specific

discussions with him I roally do not recall, no.

Later on

I romember having a couple of mectingo along with Mr. Rusk.

Ar. Haron.

Did any of those declines concern

Mr.. Twrudy. No, Mr. Rush:, I think: they exclusively

concerned Portuguese Africa.

Hir. Baron. Do you remenber having any mectings alone

with lerter, Secretary llerter, about Lunumba?

Mr. rheedy. I an

not sure I have had a morting with tir.

ir. baron.

Did you have my matings with secretar!

geer or Douglas Dillon or

livinastone terchant?

never not tro billon.

Ar. Baron. About Congolese affairs?

Ar. nwoody lever not tir. Dillon and i do not recall

coving not with livingstone Merchant on the Condo. I may

have done an but 1 really don't recall, l had very littlo

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

shona (A1as 703) 36d-6000

1

2

6

10

1:

1:

14.

1÷

1:

!::

ir:

ire incar

:::

*:

TOP SECRET

7

professional contact with Mr. Merchant. I knew him mostly

slightly socially.

MI. Baron. When you met regularly with Mr. Satterswate

or MI. Penfield did you discugs Lumumba with them?

Mr. Tweedy. I am sure we discussed Lumumba in the

sense of which would be all the time, assessing the situa-

tion, assessing where Lumumba was heading, where the Congo

was heading. I did this with, you know, almost all of the

African altuations, Individual African country situations.

We would spend a great deal of time, their pointa of

view, our point of view, cui perspective, their perspective,

but never as an action matter that I can recall.

Mr. Baron. Was the assassination of Patrice Lumumba

ever contemplated or raised in those meetings?

Mr. Tweedy. Never.

MI. Baron. Did you meet regularly in this period

between Congolese independence and the announced death of

Lumumba with people at the NSC level or people in the white

Houge?

MI. Tweedy.

I don't recall so at all. For example, i

President Eisenhower had an African representative the same

way President Kennedy

later had, then I can't recall who he

was.

President Kennedy had two. The first name escapes

me.

He later went on down to south Africa as Ambassador

and one that I saw most of for a considerable period of

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

77399192889023 944-60408

:.

TOP SECRET

1

time was Carl Karen, recently retlred head of the school of

2

Advanced Studies in Princeton.

Mr. Baron. During the Eisenhower Administration did

you have direct contact with Gordon Gray or Andrew Goodpaster

with reference to Congolese affalrs.

6

You are shaking your head and we have to put it on

the rocord.

MI. Tweady. I am alsmot convinced that the answer is

8

no. I am just thinking, I know Gordon Gray quite well. I

9

don't recall evor having. policy discussions with him st all,

10

nor General Goodpaster. I think the answer is certainly no.

1.

MI. Baron. You mentioned to me earlier that you had

1: : attended only two National Security Council meetinos In your

memory and that those two meetings were both long attor the

death of Lumumba, is that correct?

1:.

MI. Tweedy. I can only imagine that they must have been

because this was well into the kennedy Administration.

wouldn't be able to put any dates on it now.

Mr. Baron. It was during the directorship of John

McCone at CIA?

MI. Tweedy.

Yes, that is without question. And

McBundy was at the meetings.

Yes, it must have been

well after the death of lumunba, maybe even the following

year.

Mr. Baron. During the latter part of the Eisenhower

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

PISTo (4188 207) 396-8000

1

2

5

10

...

!.

d 74 1

":. .

::

::

TOP SECRET

9

Administration when eventa in Congo wore heatingup, after

Congolese Independence, what was the goneral atmosphere in

the State Department and at the CIA in relation to Lumumba,

the general attitude towaid Lumumba?

MI. Iweedy. Well, I think you would have to start by

saying what was the general assessment of the situation in

the congo. Lunumba was really sort of the last thing you

came down to.

The worry in WAshington about the situation in the

Congo was that here was the largest geographical expression

In Africa that thretened to go up in amore, up because the

Kremlin was about to march in and take it over, not because

it was about to break up tribally and do all the things that

those African countries in their early years were at least

vulnerable to.

The only trouble with the congo was if it

happened there the side effects would have been infinitely

greater than, of course, if it had happened anywhere else.

Mr. Baron.

What would those

side effects have been?

Mr. Tweedy.

All one culd do was assess those, but it

would have set a precedent, for example, the neighboring

country by which great store was set by the West wag Nigeria

and if the game infection crossed that border one was afraid

that this would go up in smoke and that in effect there

was a possibility of the continent disintegrating before

it

really had had a chance to get under way under its own aegis.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

magne (4148 202) 568-6000

2

4

5

6

8

1C

1:

-*.-

=:

-.-

: =:

14

:"'

i.:

24

26

TOP SECRET

10

This was the concern.

Me. Baron. Wero these political side effects only

that were being taken into account or were there also

fears for American business interests in the Congo that

were part of the side effects?

MI. Tweedy, Insolar as my assesamenta were concerned,

and those of the Agency and any conversations I can recall

with the State Department, American business was juat not a

great factor.

If you want to talk about business, the big factor, of

course, was Katanga and eventually when rachombe threatened in

succood resulting in tha grant anvolvamont of both the u.do anil

the U.S. In the Congo alfali, the lear there waa chat 11 you

put together the Congo without Katanga It was like construct-

ing a Cadillac and

purposely omitting the gas station.

Mr. Baron.

That 1s becauge

Kutanga is the home of

most of the natural resources that are in the congo.

Mr. Tweedy. That

is the only thing that

keeps that

country going.

Now, I don't say there weren't a lot of economic con-

siderations in back of that but these vere political

economic concerns much more than anything parochial, but is

whatras going to happen to U.S. business was not a factor inso-

far as I recall.

Мт. Вагоп.

So the primary concern was for political

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 14

piano (Aro+207) 344-8000

1

5

8

9

1:

::

MADO A PANI

i:

:

:.:

TOP SECRET

11

stability in Africa.

MI. Tweedy, Yes, political stability in Africa.

In

a quick phrase you put your foot right on that.

Mr. Dawson.

During the summer of 1960 you mentioned

carlier that in the time frame you did not think the

Kremlin was ready to march in there, as that was a fear with

you but --

Mr. Tweedy.

I don't mean to say this was nothing that

anybody was worred about but it was not the primary concern.

Mr. Dawson. But there was

significant Soviet intereat

in infiltrating and taking advantago of the situation in the

Congo?

Mr. Tweedy.

I think it would he much more accurate

to say it was our assumption, we were not privy to Soviet

intentiong with respect to Africa, which I suspect in those

¿days like a great many other things about African culture

round the globe were ill informed at that point, and un-

doubtedly secking their own polcies in Africa just the way this

country was. It was obviously a worry.

MI. Baron..

Was it also our assumption if the Soviets

moved into the congo they would move on the side of Lumumbs?

Mr. Tweedy. Oh, yes, I think there would have beon

little doubt in our minds that that would have been the case.

Mr. Baron, And is it also true that the general perception

at the Agency and in the State Department was that Lumumba

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

nd 14198 2021949-6000

1

2

5

6

9

10

11

12

.::.

4..

i..

TOP SECRET

12

posed the threat in the congo beyond the bere threat of

political instability because of his closeness to the Soviets

or his willingness to accept aid from the Soviets?

Mr. Tweedy. It made the cheese mora binding but I

don't think we had any Information indicating there was

any close umbilicus between the Sovlets and Lumumba but it

was potentlally there.

Mr. Baron. And that potential =

MI. Tweedy. Thia increased one's nervousness about the

situation.

Mr. Baron. In your capacity as Chief of the African

Division to whom did you report and from whom did you receive

orders?

Mr. Tweedy, Well, the normal chain

of command was

through DDD, Dick Bissell and --

MI. Baron. Hould you meet regularly with Richard

Bisgell during this period of time?

Mr. Tweedy.

Regularly would be a big word. Not

necesgarily that often.

we might talk on the phone. To

say that I saw him all the time, how often I don't know. It

would go in fits and starts, undoubtedly but -

Mr. Baron. In formulating actions to be taken in the

congo, would you consult with Bissell before you undertook

any major operatlon.

Mr. Tweedy.

Well, depending on what you mean by

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

DANTE (A100 202) 546-4006

1

2

5

6

9

11;

1:

.:

::. .

4!:

TOP SECRET

13

major operation. Major operation per so, lí you are not

talking about juat intelligenco operations, call for in-

structions and formalization elther inside the Agency or out-

side.

MI. Baron. So any major covert action would be

formulated in consultation not only with Bissell but with the

DCI, Allen Dulles at that time, and probably higher levels

than that.

Mr. Tweody.

I suppose the DCI, 18 Bissell felt that

was necessary, and, of course, he used to talk to the

DI without my being present, and undoubtedly certain instruc-

tions I would receive from time to time undoubtedly stem from

conversationg that Bissell would have had with the DCI and

funnelled down to me.

I didn't always know who talked to whom before I re-

ceived instructions.

MI. Baron. So if you received an instruction from

Richard Hissell as DDP you would proceed to implement that

instruction on the assumption

it was fully authorized above

the level of DDP?

MI. Tweedy. I think I would proceed with it on the

basis that he was authorizod to give me instructions

and it was up to him to bloody well know what he was empowered

to tell me to do.

I couldn't run his affairs for him to that extent, but

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

Опопа (Ar: 2071

5 4

116 liege Sire!. 61

1

5

6

9

10

1:

::.

:

:..

:..

TOP SECRET

14

by and large I reckon the Agency worked and that was the way

it was set up to work and that is the way it worked, but to

say every time Dissell talkod to me he always talked to

Allen Dulles firat I would think is nonsense.

MI, Baron. You didn't consider it your duty to question

Bissell about the source of authority for some covert action

he was asking you to undertake?

MI. Tweedy.

I would have never hesitated to do if

I felt that it was necessary to do so.

I can't recall having done so.

He and I used to have

disagreements philosophically on operations. We were very

good friends and I never had any hesitation about telling him

i when I thought he didn't make any sense but -

Mi. Dawson. Could you describe that philosophical

difference, or is it describable?

MI. Tweedy. Well it varied a lot. I think Dick was

by and large inclined to feel that almost anyching

wag

possible, you know, in the clandestine service, if they put

their minds to it, and my view was this wasn't the case.

Mr. Dawson.

Thank you.

• Mx. Baron..

Did you ever discuss the question of

assassinating bumumba with Richard Bissell?

MI. Tweedy. Yes, this was the way the whole thing

came up in the flist instance.

I can't remember how it came

up except undoubtedly we had a conversation.

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

Phant lAres 2021 948-6000

TOP SECRET

15

MI. Baron. Do you recall when it came up?

MI. Tweady,

No, I don't. It obviously must have

come up, I assume, what, the fall of 1960. But I have no

way of putting a date to it.

5

MI. Baron. And what was sald during that discussion or

perhaps I should backtrack first and ask whether this was one

7

discussion or a series of discussions?

Mr. Tweedy. Oh, we must have diacussed lt more than

once.

I think it came up in the sonse that Dick would have

11:

==

said we probably better be thinking about whether it might

:: !:

ever be necessary or desirable to got old of Lumumba, in which

" case we presumably should be in position to assess whether wr

:: could do it or not succesafully.

Mx. Baron.

Do it, meaning carry off an

assassination?

MI. Tweedy. Yes, but it was never digcussed with him

in any other sense but a planning exercise, but a planning

exercise which, in other words, never were we instructed

to do anything of this kind. "We were instructed to agk whether

such a thing would be feasible and to have the Chief of

Station be thinking along those lines as well.

MI. Baron. So, in effect you were asked to move

ahead at least as far as developing the capability to

:..

carry of an assassination if an order should be given?

Mr. Tweedy. Well, or to examine the potential for

doing that.

:.:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

son, no (A108 903) 347-4000

1

3

5

6

7

6

10

1:

]?

* ": .

::

:.

TOP SECRET

16

Mr. Dawson.

I know that you have indicated you

won't be able to put a precise date to this conversation

with Bissell or conversations with Blasell, but maybe we can

narrow it down a little bit.

Would you assume that it would be after the proclama-

tion of the Congolese Independence on June 30, 1960?

Mr. Tweedy, Oh, yes.

Mr. Dawson. Hould you assume it would be before

Lumumba's being put into U.N. protective custody on

September15, 19607

MI. Tweedy. I think it must have been, yes.

didn't realize he had gone into custody that early.

Mr. Baron.

so then it would be sometime during the

summer or carly fall of '60?

MI. Tweedy. What happened to Lunumba after that?

MI. Baron. He was in protective custody at the United

Nations force from mid-September until late November and

it was in late November that he left to. go traveling

towards Stanleyville and he was captured by Mobutu's troops

at that point in very early December and from early December

until mid-January he was in the custody of the Congolese in

prison and then it was in mid-January 1961 that he was

flown from a prison in Tysville to Katanga where his death

was announced shortly thereafter.

MI. Tweedy. That I recall. I have got to assume it

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 20

(trame (91+8 202) 546-4000

5

6

1;

8

1:

1;

1 €

d10t.d 41ee1.41. Mashergodl

?:

k:

2;

25

TOP SECRET

17

was somotime aftar September 15th. I don't know.

Mr. Baron. When you say "after" -.

MI. Tweedy,

After you put September 15 the day he

came under. The only thing is I have no recollection that

it would have happened as early as, say, carly August or

early September.

MI. Baron.

It was in August or carly September that

Lumumba was Premier of the Congo?

Mi. Tweedy.

Yes.

Mr. Baron. And there was obviously a struggle for power

between Lumumba and Kasavubu going on.

MI. Dawson.

I guess. the crucial question.

Mr. Tweedy. You

have really got me at this point.

Mr. Dawson.

It would be whether of not you would have

considered the plan had he been in U.N. protective custody.

If you assume that would be the case, then I don't think

any more precision in the date would necessarily be productive.

MI. Treedy. My whole recollection of the thing would

be that only purpose of the exercise would have been to have

a plan when he was in nobody's custody.

Mr. Baron. That would have been before -.

MI. Tweedy. That is the only thing that makes sense

to me, September, because -

Mr. Baron. Well, I will go on.

In a moment I will show you some cable traffic that

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 21

mana (Arad 202) 344-$

1

2

4

5

6

7

6

*

1:

2 :

3:

17

16

::

- =

1109,1t 4:.41.68

25

TOP SECRET

18

went back and forth batreen headquarters and the Congo after

he was in U.N. custody to see if that rofreshes your recollec-

tion about the general attitude with rogard to Lumumba at

that time.

MI. Tweedy. Yea.

MI. Baron. But, you are saying now, that it would

only make sense to you that --

MI. Iwoedy. In retrospect nothing makes sense to me

but -=

Mr. Daron, =- that this initial consideration of the

feasibility of the assassination of Lumumba between Bigsell

and yourself?

Mr. Tweedy. I should have thought that would have

been during the period:

when

he was in effect in power. I

should have thought, but the record may prove me wrong.

Мл. Вагоп.

Did you have any discussion with Bissell

where he indicated that his own consideration of the assassina-

tion of Lumumba had moved beyond the realm of

possibility to

an actual plan that he was prepared to carry out or taking

stepa to carIy out.

Mr. Tweedy.

I cannot recall a conversation with

Bissell where in effect he said, let's move from A to B or c

to D or something like this. I do not rocall that. My

recollection of the whole interval when this was under con-

sideration was that it was a planning interval and at no point

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

707) 344-600

of?

.

1

2

5

5

6

7

10

: 6.

!:..

::

TOP SECRET

19

can I recall that I aven felt it was imminent that somebody

would say go, (a) we never came up with a plan that was

go-able. or anything really very close to it. It was

always my assumption that at the time anything like this should

occur there would have been some kind of real focus on the

problem at probably a very conaiderable policy level within

the Agency at which somebody would have said something

more about it and it never occurred to me I would get a call

or Blasell would ask me to come down to his office and say

go to it.

Not were we ever in position where he said that I would

merely implement plan so-and-so.

We never got that far.

Mr. Baron.

You didn't have any action plans for

assassination of Lumumba that you had prepared or were aware

Mr. Tweedy. No. Planning, yes, but nothing that ever

got anywhere.

Mr. Baron. What kind of planning was done?

Mr. Tweedy. It was mostly the kind of thing where one

asked the Chief of Station to keep in mind what sort of

accers one might cror have lad to Lumumba

sor whatever purpose.

It was this kind of thing, as best i recollect.

Mi. Baron. Did you send cables raising the question of

gaining access to Lumumba for the purpose of assassinating

him?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

FOrt (416+ 702) 3A6.

юог

1

2

**=.

5

6

TOP SECRET

20

Mr. Tweedy, I auspect that was the first cable that

ever went out. In other words, the fleat cable that ever

went out to

He must have realized, he would

have been perfectly clear on his end, the way one's minds were:

running even though it was purely a contahgency.

Мг, Вагол.

I am sorry. I don't think I understood

that.

PAUL

You say the first cable that went out.

ME. Tweedy.

That was the first way that Hedgman was

ever advised that there was any thinking of that kind in

¿ i washington, was via our cable. I am

sure he wasn't back in

the States over anything of this kind.

1:.

MI. Baron. Today you distinctly remember a cable gent?

MI. Iweedy, I think I remember that much more distinet-

Iy than anything

I remember in the last few minutes that it

11.

was a cable which asked him to be thinking of that.

Mr. Baron.

That was pursuant to your conversation

!'

.. With MI. BlEsell?

MI. Tweedy. That was.

Mo. Baron, Did you send that cable or Mr. Bissell

:.

send that cable.

Mr. Tweedy, It probably would have been a cable I

::'

wouldhave written and probably released by him.

Mr. Baron. Do you know what was in that cable?

Mi. Tweedy, God knows, I don't.

F.:.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

7nAH 19191 707: 964-6006

5

7

9

10

1]

14

::.

::.

:

i.

i :

:.!

TOP SECRET

21

Mr. Baron. "Or the effect of the language in the cable?

Mt. Tweedy.

The effect of the language in the cable

would be to get

to be thinking along these lines.

Mr. Dawson.

Would you describe the purpose?

Mr. Tweedy. It would have been the eventuality that we

might wish to get Ild of Mr. Lumumba personally.

MI. Dawson. Is that language you think might have

been used of that 18 how you think it might have been done?

MI. Treedy. I couldn't even atart to reproduce the

cable.

MI. Baron.. Did you send a number of auch cables to

the Chief of Station?

MI. Tweedy, I imagine there weres few over a period

of time. It was not an intensive correspondence as I

remember it.

Mr. Baron.

It wouldn't be thenormal practice to

have an intensive correspondence on such a sensielve subject.

would it?

Mr. Tweedy. I don't know. It is the only time I ever

had one but I have had very sonsitive subjecta, operationally

sensitive hubjecta that I have dealt with in

extensive

cables over a very long period of time, but nothing of this

nature whatsoever.

Мг. Вагоп.

Were these cables from headquarters to

cho Chief of Station in Leopoldville sent in a specially

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

M3nO IA:DA 2071 924

1

2

5

6

7

TOP SECRET

22

restricted channel?

MI. Tweedy. Yes, all sensitive cables are sent in

various types of restricted channels I am sure you aware.

Mi. Baron.

This channel even more tightly held and

closely restricted than the normal cable traffic that would

flow to the Chief of Station?

MI. Tweedy. That would be a very fali atatement,

yos.

9

10

1]

1:

1:'

..:

:.:

::

MI. Baron. Do you know whether the cable included in-

structions to destroy it after reading 1t?

Mr. Tweedy. That wouldn't have been normal.

MI. Baron. Hould you assume that on a subject like this

such an instruction would have been given?

Mr. Tweedy. It would Ically be up to the Chief of

Station, I think.

It would be up to the Chiaf of station

what was in the cable and the degree to which he felt he

needed to maintain a record for quick reference purposes in

the future.

But, he was perfectly capable of keeping a file

which would be accessable only to him and the station and

if he was sure of his own

security within the station I don't

think this would have been a problem for him, but to answer your

question I don't know what

himself did.

Mr. Baron. What kind

of response did you receive from

or from the Chief of Station in Leopoldville?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

mano lares

121t

1:7

]

?.

• A

:.:.

TOP SECRET

23

Mr. Jroedy.. It was a serious anster. I can't do

better than that. It was a serlous answer. It wasn't argu-

mentative, I quass it started to diacuss, not the pros and

cons of policy, at least I don't recall it did, but what it

' was that ha might be able to do. It was a disciplined reply

to an inatruction from headquarters.

MI. Baron.

Did he mention any apecific means that

he had of gaining access to Lumumba?

Mr. Twoody.

I don't recall now. I don't recall. I

think he said it was certainly not beyond the question that

moans could cither be developed or might arlse but I certainly

do not socall that he came up with any very specific ideas in

the flost instance. On that I am afrald 1 am terribly hedgy.

Mr. Baron.

At the time that you were requesting the

Chief of station to report back on means of gaining

access

to Lumumba for the purpose of eliminating him, was this

acceas made any more explicit in terms of the kind of.

personal access that would be nceded?

MI. Tweedy, I am sure that must have been covered

at

some point, i.e., in perhaps a series of types of accesses.

Mr. Baron. Would this be access to shoot him or would

this be access to his personal food or drink or toiletries?

Mr. Tweedy, I suppose all those types of things might

have been considered.

Mr. Baron. But this was not access in the sense of -

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

more laros 2021 344-4001

PAU

11091000511908)

50500.009-11

TOP SECRET

24

]

finding a way to sneak inside the U.N. guard to simply

2

snatch Lumumba fIom custody, this was cloarly access to assassin-

ate him, 1a that correct?

MI. Tweedy. That would cortainly be my recollection.

5

Kidnapping was never a factor that I recall at all or even

considered, at least I don't remember it.

Мг. Ватоп.

In your discussiong with Richard Bissell

about the prospect of assassinating Lumumba, did he mention to

you that he had had similar discussions with

Mí. Tweedy, I was reminded of

role in all thia. As you may recall, when I talked to you

and Mr. Wides, and until you reminded me I hnd forgotten

1." that

played any role whatsoever and now

i.: that it has been brought to my recollection I recall it.

:: I recall it almost in detail.

I remember being told that he had expressed

reservations

or disagreement or refusal to participate to Bissell and I

think my response to you was if he säid that I would believe

him but I didn't recall it.

Mr. Baron. Did Richard Bigsell cver indicate to you

:

that he had

asked

to go to the Congo to

assassinate Lumumba?

::

Mr. Tweedy, Hell, he must have indeed have told me

:.

that he was going to ask

to go to the Congo to

examine the thing on the ground, but I don't recall him ever

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

Photo (Ar91 202) 144-40-00

& MA

TOP SECRET

25

saying, I am going to send

to the Congo to knock

2

off Lumumba, not in those words.

Mr. Baron. When you say examine the thing on the ground

It*

you mean he would send

to the Congo to take a

Ar trans

firat-hand look at the means?

6

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, conceivably I suppose this all

might have resulted in a climax there but at laaat my racollec-

tion

certainly was never that he told me that I am sending

to the Congo to knock off bumumba in those words

but that he, I am sure the philosophy was that if anything

::was done you would want to keep it as separate from the

station as possible and thus a man from the outaide.

It was Bissell's idea that

might be the man.

Mr. BaION.

The man from outside?

.:

MI. Tweedy. Outside the station.

Mr. Baron.

The CIA station in the Congo?

Mr. Tweedy.

Right.

Mr. Baron. That such à man would be necessary to

carry out an assasgination operation if one were to be mounted?

MI. Tweedy.

That if one was mounted it would

obviously be desirable to do it under auspices which would

%:

protect the security of the station or involvement of the

station.

That I am sure was the philosophy behind it.

Mr. Baron. But it is your Iccollection that

Donnel"l

TOP SECRET...

---

## Page 29

10n0(4188 7071 344

]

2

5

7

8

9

1:

17

11.

! 6,

:.

:.:

TOP SECRET

26

was sent to the Congo to assess the possibility for

assassinating Lumumba rather than to mount some sort of kid-

napping plan to draw Lumumba out from the U.N. guard and put

him in tho handa of Congolese authorities?

MI. Tweedy. That is certainly my recollection but I

would not want to put too high a value on it. I

just don't recall kidnapping as a factor la all.

Mr. Baron. Did Richard Bussell ever mention to you that

lethal blological agents had been developed in the CIA

laboratories for possible use in the Congo to assassinate Lumum-

ba? Or they were avallable for such usa?

Mr. Tweedy. I think that it would be closer that rsD

probably had the capability or had the agent or whatever l

was.

When I say agent I mean chemical agent. I suspect I

heard that, yes.

Mr. Baron..

Hould this have boen under (sidney Gottliéb's

auspices or direction in TSD?

Mr. Tweedy. If he was Chief of TSD at the time it would

have been. I don't recall.

Has he? I think he was.

Mr. Baron. ,

Did

Richard Bissell ever indicate to you

directly that/sidney bottlichlwas involved in developing

poisons that might be used

for assasgination?

MI. Tweedy. I don't recall that at all..

Mr. Baron. In your discussions with Bissell, about

the feasibility of an

agsassination operation, did poisons

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

mana (4191 2021344-4004

B.A:

TOP SECRET

27

come up as one means that was being considered and which

the Chief of Station should explore?

Mr. Tweedy.

I am sure it must have.

After all,

there are not many ways of doing it.

Shoot a man, poison

him, of course you could, "I suppose, stab him or something

6

ma-a

like that. But basically you are talking about a contingency

7

plan which I assume has the best possibility of protecting the

8

Involvement of the U.S. Government and if you want to do it

in a manner which would be as distant, if that is the right

11:

word, as posaible, I think poison would then seand high on the

1:

• list of possibilities.

Mr. Baron. Did the Chief of Station ever make a

i: response to you via cable which indicated that he was ex-

ploring means of gaining access to Lumumba for the possible

:: use of polsoning - purpose of poisoniny him.

MI. Tweedy. I am sure he must have done that. I:.

don't recall specifically, but that effect 13 what he was

!, charged to do in the first instance, examine the possibilicies.

I would be very surprised if l

didn'e come back

and in effect comment on this but the nature of his comments

::

I really don't recall.

::.

MI. Dawson.

When you and Bissell had your conversa-

::

i::

tions, whatever time it was, concerning this matter, did he

mention to you that he had approval or direction from highest

;:÷

authority to undertake.to

assassinate lumumba?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

potama (+196 7071 364-60400

TOP SECRET

28

MI. Tweedy.

I don't recall that, no. I guess I was

under

2

the impression when he talked to me that --I don't know

whether this la fair or not -I honestly don't know what

my impression was at the time whether this was something that

Bisgell had in offect aucked out of his own thumb ag a

6

contingency plan which he then raised with higher authority, and

becauso it was contingency planning I don't think at that

stage I was particularly concerned.

But to anawer the

question I just don'e know.

Mr. Dawson. You stated earlier you knew Gordon

Gray very well.

MI. Tweedy.

i::

I didn't say that. I have known Gordon

1!.

: Gray for better since than I did then.. I knew Gordon Gray

?: very Blightly indeed then, and I am not sure I over had a --

• while he wag in office -- that I ever had a personal conversa

tion with him.

I have seen a lot of him since he was on the

President's Board.

Mr. Dawson.

That answers my question.

Mr. Baron. Richard Bissell never made a representation

to you one way or the other as to whether he had approval from

any authority higher than DoP for this consideration of

assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy, No, I do not recall

30.

::

1. 4

Mr. Baron. Did Richard Bissell ever Indicate to you

26

that he was directly in contact with the Chief of Station in

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

Pano 1A10s 2021 940

1001

pe t)

$105 0011 31000.

→ at pen. 101

1

2

3

5

6

9

16

1:

12

13

14

15

1G

17 .

::

22

• 1:

2;

25

TOP SECRET

29

Leopoldville or that he had means of dealing directly with

the Chiat of Station in Loopoldville without going through

YOu?

MI. Tweedy, He always sald that any DDP, of course,

that has the capability, and right, it was never my impression

that he was using it and going around me, no. But that he

did, but he might have done it, I wouldn't gainsay it, he

certainly had the right and capability to go into it.

Mi. Dawson. Can wo go into how the right was able to be

exercised?

Mr. Iweedy. All he had to do was send a cable. He

could establiah hia own channel to Leopolduille with his own

set of slugs which would exclude the Chief of African Division.

He has the right to do that.

Mr. Baron.

It would not be improper for a DDP to send

a cable or messenger to the Chief of Station in another

country?

MI. Iweedy. I wouldn't comment on the appropriateness.

He obviously had the authority. My relationahipe with

Biggell were such that I do not believe it.

I never had the impression that he ever had any inten-

cion or desire to go around me on matters of this kind.

Mr. Dawson.

Who else other than the DOP or DCI

would have such authority?

Mr. Tweedy.

I don't know.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 33

PHONE (AIRA 2021 981

2

5

6

7

9

10

1:

1:

1÷

16

!::

1'3

::

:.:

25

TOP SECRET

30

Mr. Baron, Hould the Preaident?

MI. Tweedy, Yes, but he would probably have to come

to the Agency to find out how to do it. I Imagine the Presi

dent could send apersonal representative, I am damn sure he

would: have no way of knowing how to send a cable out there.

He would make a muck of it if he did.

Mr. Baron.

Did you learn at any point that lethal bio-

logical substances were actually in the custody of the Chiet

of Station in Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. This was mentioned when I talked to you and

MI. Wides and my

answer was that I don't recall it, but that

It was perfectly possible for them to be sent there.

MI. Baron. How would they have been sent?

MI. Tweedy. They could have been sent one or two ways.

they would have been sent through the pouch with the whole

thing wrapped in ardaddressed in such manner that it would be

opened only by the Chief of station or somebody coming out

by hand of officer or hand of somebody either way it could be

done.

Mr. Baron. Do you have any knowledge of a messenger

from CIA headquarters having to go to the Congo to provide

the Chief of station in the Congo with instructions to carry

out the assassination of Lumumba, lf possible, and also pro-

vide him with the tools to carry out such an assassination,

namely, poisonsand medical equipment for administering them?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

PAUL

-1003

1: 6 F.+0: 50101

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

10

:?.

;:

€6

TOP SECRET

• 31

MI. Tready. No, I do not.

MI, Baron.

Let mo represent to you that we have

testimony from the Chief of Station in the congo at that

point that he had received a cable from headquarters saying that

a messenger would arrive in the congo and would be

someone that he would recognize and thia messangar would give

him instructions that he was to carry out.

Did you ever know of such a cable being sent to the

Congo?

Mr. Tweedy,

I should be very surprised it I didn't,

but I certainly have no recollection of it-whatsoever.

Mr. Baron. And the Chief of station further testified

that

shortly after receiving such a cable he received a viait

from

Orney rocond who arrived In

Leopoldville and

made himself known to the Chief of Station, the Chief of

Station said that he immedlately recognized doteidabias an

officer of the Agency, and as the messenger that this

cable referred to.

Subsequently, the Chief of Station said he had metings

with

c. =1.

Roscoecides in his apartment in Leopolduille where pel

Gotallas save him instructions that he aid came from the

headquarters

to carry out the assassination of Lumumba and

also, according to the Chief of Station, gave

him lethal biological substances

and medical equipment with

which to administer them.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 35

Pryna(AIad 7021316-4000

1

3

5

6

7

9

10

11

1:!

1÷

:::

24

TOP SECRET

32

Here you aware of that chain of events?

MI. Tweedy.

That sounds far more definitive than any-

thing I have any recollection of at all.

If I understand what you said was,

Gotttley would have

left Instructions with the Chief of Station which would have

empowered the Chief of Station at the conclusion of their

converaations, to go out and assassinate Lumumba, without any

further rocourse or reference to headquarters?

Mr. Baron. That 15

Mi. Tweedy. If that is the case I don't

believe it.

Mr. Baron.

That is the essence of the

testimony that

the Chief of Station although he did say that he was not anxious

to carry out an assassination mission. He didn't think it wag

practical or wise and he probably would have gone back

to headquarters to congult with them if he thought he

was In a position to move immediately to carry out the asgass-

Ination plan, but it was his opinion that the policy decision

had been made and that he had authority to move ahead

although he doubted

MI. Tweedy. My recollection doesn't go

anywhere near

that fai.

Mr. Dawson. He checked that authority by immadiately

cabling back to headquarters saying, this guy has made himself

available to me as well as he has delivered something and

has told me that he had the approval of the highest authority

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

505n9 (9191 202) 164-6006

Wayheny".... i) €

1

3

5

10

11

1::

14

1!.

16

1:

1..1

TOP SECRET

33

in the land to order me to do what he so ordered, which got

another cable back through the specially slugged cable saying

yes, what he told you is correct.

Mr. Twaedy, I don't recall that, whieh surprises

me, bocause once again I would be very surpriged, I wouldn't

have been privy to those.

MI. Baron. If a request such as the plan Mr. Dawson

outlined had been sent from the Congo to headquarters and it

were in more narrow cryptic terms, for instance, if it had

said aimply I have seen your messenger

and received instruc-

tlons and request confirmation that I am to carry them ous,

would that refresh your recollection as to whether you had

Been

such a cable?

Mr. Tweedy.

I can't be at all sure it will refresh

my recollection but if you and

say that such a cable

was sent, I am not going to gainsay it.

MI. Baron. Would that be the manner in which

confirmation for such a sensitive operation would be requested?

MI. Iweedy. I don't know because I never saw one be-

fore or since but it gounds highly reasonable to me.

This

is the way, this would be

:::

the way I should have thought-any

'" two sensible people would confer on sensitive matters when

each knew that the other knew exactly what he was talking

:..

about and, of course, you don't have to use unnecessary words

but beyond the likellhood of this I can't say that is what

21

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

Pone (Arto 202) 386-4000

1

2

3

5

6

9

10

1:

1::

1:.

14

15

1r.

1?

1:

24

25

1:

8119, 2g?.,n. 11 €

110

TOP SECRET

34

Mr. Dawson.

This leaves us with one or two alter.

natives, either the Chief of Station who has appeared and

testified although not necessarily reluctantly, but certainly

reluctantly as to substance of his testimony, 1s not telling

us the truth, or he is telling us the truth and you were: not

privy to what was going on.

MI. Tweedy. Of I literally don't socall it. Thie 1s my

problem. I will tell you quite frankly with these things

MI. Dawson. It Is 15 years ago.

Mx. Tweedy.

I really an having trouble with this. I

had to be reminded of so many things about the things that

I socall the most vividly about all my African experiences

were basically the things I was basically concerned with

all

the time which was putting this division together and the .

rest of it.

When it comes to operational detail I start getting

fuzzy and

you would have thought with something like thinking

about Mr. Lumumba in these terms, that I would have gone to

bed and got up thinking about Lumumba, I can assure you chis

wasn't the case.

I spent days in a row not even giving lumumbo one

single bloody thought. This is my problem.

MI. Dawson.

Let's try to jog your memory on this.

Do you recall any time during that perlod of any dig-

cussiong of the use of

GatulleD whatsoever as a courter?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

Prigna (Arga 202)

144

1

2

4

5

G

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

- -

. •

1::

;.;

TOP SECRET

35

MI. Imoody. No.

Mr. Dawaon. All right.

Mr. Treedy.

But 1f he went as a courder, I will bet

I knew it, but I don't recall it.

Mr. Baron.

Having heard this story, would it be your

assumption it is morelikely to be true than not?

M. Tweedy. Well, I put it purely this way.

MI. Baron. I am asking you for your expert opinion

here as someone experienced.

Mr. Tweedy.

Expert opinion.

Mr. Dawson. You had been the person responsible dor

promoting this Chief of Station or at least appointing him

Chief of Station, I assune?

Mr. Tweedy. That in actual fact isn't true. His

appointent was already in the works when I came aboard and

I had met

in London on his previous assignment which,

1f I Iemember correctly, was

and he came to lon-

don to discuss an operational matter with me which had

nothing whatsoever to do with that and we had a very good

discussion. It was only, I think, when I yot back to

headquarters as it were, took up the reins after the division

that I learned that he had been appointed Chief of Station

in the Congo, a decision

with which I took absolutely no

exception whatsoever, but as a number of aggignments may be

made before I came thay had to be they couldn't wait for me

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

pnono(918a 207) 344-400

APAUL

5191111 CArpe

1

5

===-

15

1:

1::

1:

14

-16,

1';

22:

25

TOP SECRET

36

to get tha word.

ME. Dawson.

Have you ever had any occasion to doubt

his veracity or integrity?

Mr. Tweedy. I have not.

I think when I say yes to your banic question, it would

be that I would trust his memory and I certainly trust his

integrity.

МІ, ВаОП.

We don't question it.

MI. Tweedy. All of thia happoned pretty much the way

you gave it to me.

Mr. Baron. That would be your --

MI. Tweady.

The aspect of it I find very difficult to

believe it that at any time headquarters said on receipt of

these instructions, go ahead and do it. This I find very

difficult to -- I do not recall and I find

difficult to believe

and I believe implicitly the reaction he gave you which was,

reaction, that if he found it not feasible he sure as

hell would

have referred again to headquarters

before he did

it.

Мг. Вагоп.

Why did you find it difficult to believe

such an Instruction would have been given?

Mr. Tweedy.

That way I would have said in such a

matter of this kind, headquarters would have wanted to have a.

last

word up to the last minute.

Not one of these things that

8,,10.118

Gottleb

off to the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

incino (4181 202) 384-6000

1

2

6

==..

...

9

16.

!:

?:.

TOP SECRET

37

Congo and by the time he hus found

given his inatruc-

tiong and all of which could have been four or five or six

days later and

In turn had found a way to do it

even then set about his leisuré to do lt or without further

reference to headquartera that is not the way my organization

has over run operations.

Mr. Baron, Has It likely at all thather Gotchch

would have gone off on his own with these poisona to the

congo to deliver them to the Chief of Station?

Mr. Tweedy. I should have sald quite impossible.

Mr. Baron.

Without an

instruction from the DDP at

least?

MAMMARAVI

Mr. Tweedy. That is quite impossible.

MI. Baron. Hould (Dr: rottlich

fhave proceeded to the

?:: Congo in the way the organization nomally worked if the

DCI had tasked him directly with such a mission?

:.

*: :

24

25

MI. Tweedy. I am afraid I don't quite understand.

ch0.124

MI. Baron. If the DCI had givent

an

instruction to go to the Congo and deliver poisons to the

Chief of Station would he have done it without consulting

with the DDP?

MI. Tweedy, I suppose so.

But I don't believe 1t.

I don't believe it ever happened.

To answer your question, I suppose if anybody got a

personal privato instruction from the DCI, and was instructed

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

MOnO LAras 207) 546-500

1

2

5

G

:::

?:.

1"

i..

:.

21.

...

TOP SECRET

38

to proceed without rafarence to anybody else he would pre-

sumably go ahead and do so.

MI. Baron. But, becauso the feasibility of this

sassination of Lumumba had been discused, this was not such

a tightly held subject that the DDP would have been circum-

vented?

Mr, Iweedy. DDP as far ag I las concerned was the

person with whom the division first discussed the mattor an-

tirely. I don't recall ever having discussed it with Allen

Dulles. I am sure when I say I am sure I assumo Biggell dis-

cussed it with Allen Dulles but, this was never a matter

which was between the Del's office and the Leopoldville

station insofar as 1 was aware, and to this day i don't

believe it ever was.

Mr. Baron. Just to clarlfy something we talked about

earlier when I think we were jumbling two questions together,

it 1s your expert opinion, expert

in the sense

of your knowl-

edge of the Agency, and your opinion as a participant at that

cime that the testimony, the basic testimony we have received

retreate

about poisons being delivered to the congo byl

instructions to use them in the assassination of lumumba.

1l possible, would be true testimony?

MI. Tweedy, Only way I can answer that question, Mr.

Baron, is to say I see not the slightest reagon and do

not

belleve that you would have been lied to on this point.

TOP SECRET.

der.

---

## Page 42

consonalmers (03) 314-8000

1:0

TOP SECRET

39

1

But, there ia nothing in my experiance with the Agency

2

which would really bear on that point whatsoever.

MI. Baron.

Did you travel to the Congo shortly

before the independence of the Congo was declared?

Mr. Tweedy. That was my firet visit to the congo as I

6

recall, it was two weeks before independence. I made a

Jong trip through sub-Saharan Africa which culminated in

7

a drive from Kampala to Sambura and I flow from Samburo, I

- -.

gucas, to Albertville and from Albertville to Leopoldville

9

and that 1s theflat time I ever saw Leopoldville.

10

MI. DAWBOn.

Do you know whether Mr.

was

1:

there at that time?

Mr. Tweedy.

Mr.

I

am almost gure was

17.

not. His predecessor was

chere.

lie had many children, I

::: Can't remember his name.

MI. Baron.

And you left the Congo before

!:

independence was declared.

Mr. Tweedy.

Yes, I was only there for, 1 suppose I

was there for four or five days and I thought I was going to

end my whole tour there and whole trip there but eventually

I had to go up to the Ivory coast to settle an unexpected

:::

• problem.

2.1.

Mr. Baron.

for the record would you agree with me

:.:

that independence was reclared about June 30, 19607

MI. Tweedy, Yes.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

paut

::.

*:-

11.

TOP SECRET

40

Mr. Baron.

Did you make anothor tilp during which

you visited the Congo at some point beforo the death of

• Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy.

Yes, well, it 1s this one that I regurgi-

tated finally which must have been as

near

as the early

part of December and which had startod with a visit to Rome

In the latter part of November, followed by a tilp to Nairobi

followed by a brief visit to south Afiica, then 1 think congo.

then brlefly Brazzaville and home via Europe.

MI. Baron.

And this mecting in November '60 in

Rome was a meeting of Aftican --

MI. Tweedy.

South - Northern African Station Chiefs.

fake Kighray and these would have been chiefs of stations of

Mr. Baron.

Mr. Tweedy. No.

And the Congo?

MI. Baron.

So the Congo Chief of Station would not

normally have been --

Mr. Tweedy. If he came up he must have come up to see:

•Pissell.

Mr. Baron. Richard

Bissell was

traveling with you on

this --

Mr. Tweedy. No.

MI. Baron. - tour to Rome and Nairobi?

Mr. Tweedy, He called the meetings. The whole purpose

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

pannoIA-ea 207) 344-6000

TANI

TOP SECRET

41

1

of the exercise was that he wanted to meet a large number of

our new Chiefs of Stationg in Africa and rather than make a

toly

around Africa, which he hardly lud time, he used a device

which we often used, which is to hold regional meetings at

5

a central point to which these people could have ready access

6

and, therefore, it was easy for people on the north Mediter-

Ianean littoral or South Mediterranean littoral to proceed to

Rome, and the same way it was easy for East African Station

9

Chiefs to proceed to Nairobi, and he had the meetings there.

each one two or three days, i suppose.

MI. Baron.

Did the Chief of Station in the Congo

:: attend the meeting in Rome?

Mr. Tweedy. I am sure he would

not. In other words,

if he saw hissell he would havn merely

come to Rome and have

scen him, but he would have had no reason whatsoever, in

fact it would have been ridiculous for Bissell to invite a

man

who didn't

belong in the North African meetings and merely

raised

the question whether lledgman was there.

Mr. Baron.

What region in the CIA organization char:

would the Chief of Station in the Congo belong to?

Mr. Tweedy.

We change amound there. We had in

those days, we had the

branch, we had the

:.:

branch, we had a

branch, which

: 1

included

maybe the Congo in those days.

TOP SECRET

probably

Later on the Congo was sort

---

## Page 45

Eagne (Ares 207)

34.

MANtI&

1

9

1:

14

:.

:::

:::

;.;

TOP SECRET

4 2

of Sul Goneris but in that eaily time I suspect it

fell down in Southern Africa but I am not absolutoly sure.

It might havo fallen just in French-speaking West Africa.

He always had actrenchwest Artog, an englisha peaking

mess africa.

MI. Baron. We have received testimony from the Chief

of station in the Congo at that point that he did como to

Rome to meet with Richard Bissell and he belives that he also

met with yourself and MI. Karamesgines at Mr. Karamessines'

house.

Mr. Tweedy. I doubt if he saw MI. Karamessines.

It

would only be because Mr. Karamesaines

But I am sure he was not discussing any

policy problems with MI. Karamessines who had absolutely no

jurisdiction over them in those days whatsoever.

MI. Baron, That was his testimony, but it was incidental,

but if, as he has testified, that he met with Mr. Bissell and

yourself, you wouldn't dispute

that testimony?

Mr, Iweedy, Absolutely not.

Mr. Baron. And that would be due to the intensity of

activity in ihe Congo at this point and the intensity of

concern over that activity?

Mr. Tweedy. Absolutely. It was obviously becoming more

and

more of a commitment of both the U.S. Government and

thus the agency.

I think leaving Lumumba entirely aside this

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

(ar,no (9148202) 344-7002

5

6

7

1:.

1:

1:;

] :.

:..

TOP SECRET

43

was the main Isason that I am sure I went to the Congo

at that point was the fact that 1t obviously was going to become

a major personnel drain, if you like, on the Division

and a major commitment both at headquarters and in the

field, thus it was important i sort of look the thing over.

MI. Baron. Having refreshed your recollection about

this moeting between the Chief of Station and Mr. Bissell and

yourself

do you recall what was discussed when you

were together?

MI. Tweedy.

I can only asgume that some of the things

that we discussed by cable traffic were diacussed.

The other thing I am

sure must have been discussed was

what I would call the general

assessment of the Congolese

situation and what the station might be required to do, thus

the sort of support headquarters was going to have to give

the Station.

Mr. Baron. Was there any discussion of the assassination

of Lumumba or the prospect of --

Mx. Tweedy. I would he immensely surprised if it

wasn't discussed but I don't recall in what context it was

discussed.

In fact, I don't believe it wasn't discussed.

It was after all on the agenda, as it were, at leagt

assume it was, at that point.

MI. Baron.

The prospect of assassinating Lumumba con-

tinued to be on the agenda of the Agency until the point that

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 47

1

••******RO:**^.061

2

6

7

8

9

1i

1:

18

14

1: '

16

!:

!..

:.

::

2:

TOP SECRET

44

Lumumba was actually dead?

MI. Tweedy,

I don't recall. You probably are much more

knowledgeable on that than I am. I don't recall when in

effect we no longer considered it or it no longer was a

factor. I just don't remember.

Mr. Baron.

But, Just now you were assuming that that

would have the case?

MI. Tweedy. If 1t was still on, it was atill on

the agonda, Inevitably we must have discused 1%. If 1t was

off the agenda chen

no, but I honeatly don't remember.

Mr. Baron. Let me show you now some cable traffic

between the agency and Leopoldville which consists of a

series of cables

that begins shortly before Lumumba was placed

Into U.N. custody, then continues after he was placed in U.N.

custody.

In an attempt to refresh your recollection about the

attitude at the Agency toward Lumumba after he was in U.N.

custody --

Mr. Treedy. Okay.

Mr. Baron, -- the first cable which we will mark Tweedy

Exhibit 1 1s dated August 26, 1960, from Leopoldville to che

Director.

(The document referred

to was

marked Treedy Exhibit to. 1 for

identification.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 48

T6,70 (A188 207) 204-4001

• 4 80

TOP SECRET

45

Mr. Tweedy. Thai is tha way all cables were addressed.

I see he sent one specifically to DcI.

Mr. Baron. Off the record.

(Discussion off the racord.)

Mr. Baron. Onthe record.

Let's turn back now.

7

I believe while we were off the record and axamining this

cable closely you corrected me, Mr. Tweedy, on the lact that

...

this cable was not sent from Leopoldville to the Director but

10:

Iather it was sent from headquarters to Icopoldvillo, is

::: that correct?

Mr. Tweedy.

Correct.

Mr. Baron. And it appears to you from the designation

i: "Allen H. Dulles", at the top of the telegram, that this was

:: a personal message signed off by the DCI himself to the Chief

is of station.

Mr. Tweedy. Correct. As I sald, he might not have

"drafted it but it certainly would have been his sign off.

Mr. Baron.

And let me direct your attention to

the portion of the cable that says in high quarters here it is

the clear-cut conclusion that if Ill continues to hold high

%:

office the inevitable result will at best be chaos and at

worst pave the way to a Communist takeover of the congo with

disastrous

consesuences for the prestige of the U.N. and for

i ;

the interests of the Free World generally.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 49

canno: 9181 702) 967-8001

MAHO

HIH

5

8

9

10 !!

10.

,. 1

1:

1:4

2!.

TOP SECRET

46

Consequently we concludo that his removal must be an

urgent and prime objective and that under exiating condit..

this should be a high priority of our covert action.

Nos, do you belleve that Lil refera to Lumumba?

Mi. Tweedy. I do.

MI. Baron. And why would three L's have been used in

the cable?

Mr. Tweedy. I don't know.

MI. Baron, Would that be a standard way of making sure

that at least one of the l's was clear in transmissioni

Mr. Tweedy. I honestly don'e know.

Now, that isn't the normal way to do it at all. I

honestly don't know how. His namo was Patrice.

MI. Baron. But it is nonetheless your opinion tha:

LLL does refer to Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. I do indeed.

Me. Baron.

Does this accord with your general sense

of the polley toward lumumba at that time at the Agency and ::

State Department?

Mr. Tweedy. It accords much more with my recollect!.

of our attitude toward the potonlially disastrous situatin.

the Congo than it does on he personally, but he obvious!:

was always in the background.

Mr. Baron.

Where the cable says we conclude that his

removal must be an urgent

and prime objective and that under

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 50

romantiarke 202) 394-8007

6

TOP SECRET

47

exiating conditions this should be a high priority of out

covert action, close quotes, - in that consistent with the

polley towards Lumumba as you recall it?

In other words, that Lumumba'a renoval vas a prime objec-

tivo of the covert actiona of the Agency.

MI. Tweedy, He would have given our aye teeth to have

Lumumba not the head of the Congolese stato, certainly I would

agree with that.

September 16, 1960.

Mr. Baron. As Exhibit 2, let's turn to a cable dated

i:

(The document referred to was

marked Tweedy Exhiblt No. 2

for identification.)

:"

• "

• ..

i..

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 51

gies bego areas.

50955

1

2

3

5

9

1:

14

16

ir:

%!:

::'

24

25

TOP SECRET

48

MI. Baron.

This containa references to the faet that

"the station wa flooded with reports re outcone Mobutu coup".

And the cable goes on to discuss the fact that U.N.

troops had interferred with Congolose troop and prevented

them from arresting Lumumba.

Now, this cable was sent to the CIA headquarters

from Leopoldville ona day after Lumumba sought protective

custody from the United Nationa and two days alter the Mobutu

coup where Mobutu took over the government.

In the cable as it has been sanitizad by the Agency

it now reads:

"Station advised two moderate Congolose politician

try work with key Congolese contact in effort climinate

Lumunba. Fear U.N. protection will give Lumumba opportunity

to organize counterattack. Only solution is remove him

from scene soonest"

Was that the attitude of the Agency at this point,

as far as you understood it, that the fact that Lumumba

was in U.N, protective custody did not eliminate him as a

threat in the Congo?

Mr. Tweedy, I don't really recall but I think the

chances are that we feared that U.N. protective custody

might very well result in his early release or his ability

gui:

to control matters. I should think that la very probable.

Mr. Baron. And that is the reason why there would be

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

1

2

5

8

10

1:

1"

35

1:

i..

2%:

25

50955

TOP SECRET

49

this fear of counterattack organired by bumumba while he was

protected by the U.N. =

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, that is probably true.

MI. Baron.

As Exhibit 3 let's turn to a cable dated

September 20, 1960, which 18 sent - off the record.

(The document referred to was

marked tweedy Exhibit 3 for

identification.)

(Discussion off the racord.)

==.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 53

1105.00: 21070

NW 50955

Pagnt (Ar8o 207) 329

1

2.

'..

4

6

9

10 !

!:

::

TOP SECRET

50

MI. Baron. Back on the record.

Although the top of this cable does not indicate where

the cable was sent to and from, because we don't have the

cover sheet for the cable, you have indicated to me by looking

at the designations that this cable must have been sent from

Leopoldville to headquarters, in that correct, Mr. Treedy?

Mr. Tweedy. That is correct.

Mr. Baron. Lot me direct your attention to paragraph

7 which aaya:

"Station checking recurring reports of Kasavubu Lumumba

reconcilation. Kasavubu denies Bolikango failed deny

possibility of lumumba entering new government, possibly

as vice Premier. Belleve some aubatance to sumor but will

do best prevent 1f Lumumba allowed even minor role he most ape

come out on top".

Does that indicate to you that the Chief of Station

in the Congo at this point continued to be extremely concerned

that Jumumba should not be allowed even a minor role in the

government of the Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. That is what it says.

MI. Baron. Next, as Exhibit 4, we have a cable dated

January 19, 1961.

(The document referred to was

marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 4

for identification.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 54

MAnA (ArA$ 702)

WARn

HITT

50955

1

2

4

5

6

1€

:.

::.

TOP SECRET

51

MI. Baron. Thie was sent from the Congo to -

MI. Tweedy, Sent from Elizabethvilla to Leopoldville info

headquartera, information headquarters.

Mr. Baron. So that headquartera. would have received

a copy of this cable sent by the

to the Station Chief in Leopoldville?

Mr. Tweedy. Right.

Mr. Baron. And paragraph 1 of thia cable says:

"Thanks for Patrice. If we had known he was coming

wo would have baked a snake".

Do you have an independent recollection of this

cable?

Mr. Incedy. Yes, of course I do, for the simple reason

of that phrase, which is another way of saying, a lighthearted

way of saying, on the part of Elizabethville Lumumba arrived

in Kutanga and he had no idea he was coming.

Me. Baron, . So this cable does not indicate that there

was any connection between the CIA and. Lumumba'a eventual death.

the actual causes of his death in Kutanga?

Mr. Tweedy, Will you say that again? I am not quite

sure I understood that.

Mr. Baron. Does that cable indicate in any way that

the CI was knowledgeable of the actual causes of Lumumba's

death at the point when it occurred?

In other words, that they were connected to the people

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

Prand (Aste 2021 34

міжди

1W 50955

2

6

---.-=crr.

1G

i :

i:

i!

1.4

:.

:..

2:

TOP SECRET

52

who caused his death?

Mr. Tweedy. I must say I have a hard time following the

question.

This moans that Lumumba arrived under the Congo-

lese auspices in Rutanga and that

didn't know he was coming,

didn't

know very much, didn't presumably know very much about what

occurred, and reported very briefly on what they had heard.

Mr. Baron. Let me put the quastion in context.

On january 17, Lumumba had been flown to Kutanga?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

Mr. Baron. And later United Nationa Investigations co..

cluded that. 1t was the 17ch or perhaps the 18ch that Lumumbo

was actually killed in Kucanga.

I was asking you before whether this cable would indi-

cate that the United States would have been involved In

bringing about the death of Lumumba?

Mx. Iweedy. I would have thought that it merely in-

dicates that this part of the Agency, 1.0.,

had no idea he was coming, knew nothing about his fate

except these few phrases that he put down here and would imp:

although it certainly doesn't say so, that he was adding a

little information to what was

perhapa an enormously ignoran:

Leopoldville which, of course, is the fact of the matter.

We didn't know how all this was occurring and wore not able

to follow the event except after the event.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

0.m010191 202196

...

NY 50955

6

?

8

21.

1

TOP SECRET

53

Mr. Baron.

Was the CIA connected in any way to the

events that immodiately led to Lumumba's death?

Mr. Tweedy. None whatsoever.

Mr. Baron. CIA was not involved in a plot to fly

Lumumba from hia previous place of imprisonment in ryaville

out to futanga thare the authorities vere known to be so

hostile to him that he would probably neat hid death there?

Mr. Tweedy, The fate of Lumumba in the end vas purely

an African event.

Ms. Baron, At what point did you laarn of Lunumba's

death?

MI. Tweedy. I suspect probably about the time that the

world did. No one had a beat on this.

MI, Baron. You had no advanced warning that Mobutu in-

tended to fly Lumumba to Katanga?

Mr. Tweedy. Not that I recall, and I am sure the cable

traffic would reflect it if I had.

MI. Baron. Mr. Tweedy, do you recall an asset who was

sent from Europe, where he had been rocruited by

to the Congo in the fall of 1960?

MI. Tweedy. I think Iwas reminded of this when I talked

to you and Mi. lides a couple or so montha ago.

MI. Baron.

This would be an asset who went by the

cryptonym of OJHIN.

MI. Tweedy. So I was reminded then, which was a cryptonym

TOP SECRET

la//

---

## Page 57

Pror (Aros 202)

MAND

PAUL

NW 50955

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

11:

::

15

::.

TOP SECRET

54

I didn't remember at all, whereas I do remember quite a number

of cryptonyma chen reminded of then.

MI. Baron. Aside fron the cryptonym, do you recall US

there was an asset who had been rocruited byi

Europe and who was sent to the Congo to perform some mission

In November and December of 1960?

Mr. Tweody, I was generally reminded of it by that

conversation with you and Mr. Wides but I will confess that

my recollection doesn't go any further than that.

But unlike some of the thinga I have boen reminded

of, I think recalled that asset o

had been

involved. That is juat as about as deep as my recollection

goes.

MI. Baron. Let me see if I can refresh your recollection.

first, by relating to you the testimony of

who sald chat he did make use of QUWIN in the Congo as

a kind of "alter ego" of hia, a genoral operative of his.

Does that remind you at all of the nature of the

mission that QJWIN had in the Congo?

. Mr. Tweedy. No, it doesn't.

MI. Baron.

Have you heard the phrase executive ac-

tion?

Mr. Tweedy, In the newspapers.

MI. Baron. During your tenure as a CIA official you

never heard the phrase executivo action discusaed as part of

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

#AMA

1109.0400s.81. 1089-00139.0810001

HIW

509

1

mit:

7

:!

1:

1:1

1÷

14

1:

;.:

25

TOP SECRET

55

a CIA program or plan.

ME. Tweedy, No. Only in bureaucratic Washington

torma of executive action.

Мг. Вагол.

Meaning administrative action?

Ms. Twoody. Yes.

Ms. Baron. Mere you aware of any project at CIA to

develop the capability of carrying off an assassination of

a foreign leader, 11 required?

ME. Tweody. Will you repeat that?

Mr. Baron.

Here you aware that the CIA had a project

which operated under the cryptonym ERRIFLE to develop the nea::

pardon me, to develop the capability of carrying out assassin-

ations if required?

Mr. Tweedy, You mean just generically?

Mr. Baron. Yes.

MI. Tweedy. No.

Mr. Baron. Aside from the discussions that you had

with Richard Bissell about the feasibility of assassinating

Lumumba, did you participate in any other discussions at the

Agency about assassination capabilities?

Mr. Tweedy.

Never.

MI. Baron.

Did you bring anyone else connected wich

the Agency into the discussion of the feasibility of

assassinating Lumumba, other than the Chief of Station in

Congo?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

243AA 1Ards 202) 984-6001

TAND

HIH

50955

2

6

8

9

10!

11

14

26 A

*:

24

TOP SECRET

56

Mr. Twnedy.

was my deputy.

The only other person who as avare of it

MI. Baron. That would be?

MI, Tweedy,

He was aware of it in that

MI. Baron. Did he take any action in realtion to that

plan or consideration?

MI. Tweody. Nos just he was in matters of this kind he

would have been my alterego but he was aware of it, that 18

all.

Mr. Baron. Do you know William Harvey?

Mr. Tweedy. Sure, I know Bill Harvey well, Haven't

seen him in a long while.

Mr. Baron. And were you aware that Willlan Harvey

was in contact with

to develop the standby

capability for carrying out assassinations?

Mr. Iweedy. I don't know anything about it whatsoever.

Mr. Baron. Did you at any point talk wich William

Harvey about any CIA activity in the Congo?

MI. Tweedy. Not that I remember.

Mr. Baron.

Let me show you a document now that we will

Mark Fxhibit 5.

(The document referred to was

marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 5 for

identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 60

Phony (Arts 207) 301

]

2

5

6

7

9

10

17

;:.

:.:

• =

TOP SECRET

57

Mr. Baron;

KUTUBE/D, which I belleve 16 -

This 1s a dispatch from the Chief of

MI. Treedy. That

is Staft D.

Mr. Baron. In the Foralgn Intelligence Divialon, 1s

that correct?

Mr. Treedy. Yes.

Mr. Baron. Mritten to the Chief of Station inj

and Chief of Station in

through Chief AF and

Chief ME.

Would Chief AF have been yourself, Chief of the African

Division?

Mr. Tweedy.

What is the date?

Мг. ВЛОП.

The date 1s November 2, 1960.

Mr. Tweedy. I would have been.

Mr. Baron.

And W1111am Harvey would hve been Chief o!

KU2D?

MI. Tweedy. I suppose he was then. He certainly was

Chief of Staff D, in which case he could have, that 1s

what he would have been then..

Mr. Baron.

MI. Tweedy, while we have been off the

record you have had a chance to review this document and

tell me some things about it

I would like to repcat on the

record.

typed the words

Flrst of all, on this copy of the document there is

undor the space for

TOP SECRET

HH 50955

---

## Page 61

Proar (Arts 2021 368-8006

2

5

6

9

10

1:

i:

!!

14

15÷

ir:

1:

;:.

i.:

25

TOP SECRET

58

officer's signature, and you sald to me a moment ago that

you are almost 100 percent sure that that is the pseudonym

of Hillian Harvey, 1s that right?

MI. Tweedy.

Yes.

Mr. Baron. And you were just pointing to -=

MI. Tweedy.

Chiat of ID. You told me he was Chief

of ID at the time. He cartainly was Chief of ID. You toid

no ho was Chief of ID than, I put those tuo together

and say I am pretty sure my recollection is

Harvey, I can't swear to it, but I am virtually sure.

Mr. Baron.

And do you have any independent recollec-

tion of the subject matter that la discussed in this document?

MI. Tweedy.

None at all. It doesn't ring a bell

st all.

Mr. Baron. Even after revlewing the document

do you have any recollection of what OWIN's mission in the

Congo would be, would have been?

Mr. Tweedy.

NO.

Mr. Baron.

You

said that such a memo --

MI. Tweedy.

You told me he was going out there to

and whoh

work with

Went out there I

guess he was going to look into a numbor of things for

headquarters

and the Station pertaining to Congolese matters.

When I say I guess I am in effect asking you because I don't

recollect by any emeans what the full auspices of

TOP SECRET

5095

---

## Page 62

PranA (ArRa 202) 366

00

N# 509

1

6

7

8

10

1:.

14

15

1G

17

24

25

TOP SECRET

59

vialt to the Congo were and you said that Mr. OJHIN

was going out as sort of his caddy, 1f you like, he was going

to work for him and act as his general assistant.

Mt. Baron. That was the way

described

1t, although in this lengthy memo which apparently precedes

the dispatch of QJHIN to the congo there 1e no mention ofMEi

Mr. Tweedy.

Thia I don't think

necessarily has anything

to do with

misalon whatsoever. This, I think, 1s

generic mission, seems

to indicate that he la going to

muck around with Corsicans. I don't recall Corsicans, I

know

in the Congo at all.

Мг. Вагал.

Would this kind of dispatch have been

written by the Chief of Staff D without consultation with the

Chief of the African Division?

Mr. Tweedy. He did consult, that is to say, he wrote

che dispatch.

I haven't read the whole thing but I gather

from this - you see there is also a reference here.

I don't

know what the reference is about. But I gather that

is

brought into this activity because they wanted to act in a

support capacity to this headquarters activity.

Mr. ваго .

You don't have any recollection of a mission

about this time that headquarters was con-

in

cerned

with?

MI. Tweedy. No, I surely don't. On the contrary.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 63

ARON (9198 202) 328.

110 l.: 40,00. 1.

2

5

6

10

11

1/

1:.:

::.

TOP SECRET

60

Mr. Baron. Mould it have been proper for the Chief of

Staff D to arrango an operation in the Congo directly without

going through the African Division although keeeping the

African Chief informed?

Mr. Tweedy.

Well, the two are mutually exclusive.

You can't have one without the other. To answer your first

question, it would be guite improper and wouldn't have occurred

that the Chief of Staff D was operating in an African Station

without the African Division being informed. This, however,

makes it amply clear that that was not the case, the African

Division was informed. In what depth in terms of terma of

headquarters purposes I don't know but it would have been

sufficient for Harvey to have done what he did and coordinate

this with the Division and if the Division had percelved

any objection or saw any problems they would have raised it .

before the dispatch went out.

Also I noticed

As also invited to find problems

with this, if it did,

and

sày so:

...•

MI. Baron. What kind of missions generally would

Staff D have been carrying out in Mirica at this time?

Mr. Tweedy.

Well, you know what the role of

Staff D was.

Мг. Вагоп.

21:

...

MI. Tweedy, This is in effect

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 64

parse: Aras 2071 944

TAME

1195.0910r90

.. 8200.00.91.091810001

1

2

6

9

10

!:

1÷

2 %

:.:

i 4

21

TOP SECRET

61

yes, absolutely.

MI. Baron, Hould it be surprising to you that QJWIN might.

have been used in some manner in connection with an assassina-

tion plot against Lumumba and have been diracted or supervised

by Nilliam Harvey without your knowledge?

Mr. Tweedy. It would have surprised me exceedingly and

would today. To put it differently, I am sure it didn't occur.

Mr. Baron. After reading this memo, you cold me a

moment ago that you thought this might indicate that OWIN

was being recruited for ZRRIFLE activities.

MI. Tweedy.

Well, you mentloned IRRIfLE, which frankly

I hadn't heard before.

This sounde as if he was going to

have some kind of generic assignment. I merely put those

two together but I know nothing about it at all.

Ms. Baron. The dispatch says, "In view of the extrene

sensitivity of the objective for which we want him to perform

his task, he was not told precisely what we want him to do."

Do you have any knowledge of what it was precisely that

OJHIN was asked to do?

Mr. Tweedy.

I do not.

Mr. Baron. Then, on page 3 of the dispatch it says:

"The operation we have in mind is too sensitive

to risk blowing it in this phase and the search for assets

must be conducted with truly" -- which is underscored --

"minimum risk".

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 65

1

2

6

TOP SECRET

62

What would these assets have been used for, what was

the search for asaets all about?

Mr. Tweady. I just do not know.

MI. Baron. Let'a turn now to a document ..that we will

mark Exhibit 6, dated January 11, 1961, which is a meno

for the FN Diviaion Irom Willlam R. Harvey, Chief of FI

Division D.

In thie memo I will direct your attention to the

sentence that says in that cable COS

was told

to TA/A all OJHIN expenses to headquarters since QJWIN Maa

being uaed for FI/D purposes."

Do you know what FID purposes OJHIN was being used

for?

:!

i:

!"

:.

;:.

daehmg..e.

MI. Tweedy, I don't know.

Mr. Baron. The memo goes on to say that:

"QJWIN was sent on this trip for a specifically sensi

tive operational purpose which has been completed".

were you informed by Willian Harvey that QJWIN's

mission was completed?

Ms. Tweedy. I don't recall that at all and don't recall

any aspect of the mission or its completion.

Mr. Baron.

Okay.

Did you know of an assot of the Chief of Station in the

Congo known as WIROGUE, who was sent to the Congo after re-

ceiving plastic surgery so that he wouldn't be recognized by

TOP SECRET

23

---

## Page 66

PROnA(A,0, 1071 144400

RARE

J!..

HIfT

TOP SECRET

his follow Europeans who might be traveling through the

Congo7

63

Mr. Tweedy, I do rocollect that and you brought it

to my attention, when you and MI. Widos and I discussed this

5: a couple of monthe ago. I do remembor the cryptonym and

7

9

. i

:.

i..

;::

;.

; :

remember generally the circumstances in which he was sent as

a sort of general purpose agent to the Congo with the thought

1f we got involved in paramilitary activity he would be halpful

and he was recruited on that rather goneral basis, and when you

discused with me a later alarming exchange of cables which

indicated that he landed running and made some rather irrespon-

sible remarks and we commented on them to the station.

My best recollection is that in the long haul he stayed

on in the Congo and I think became, I belleve he became a

somewhat useful intelligence source, but

would

have a much better recollection of that.

But I do remember

quite well his dispatch. He had been

seen by two or three

members of my Division, including my deputy. I don't

recall that I ever met him unless I met him in the Congo.

If I did I just don't remember. But I remember he was assessel.

as it were, recruited in the United States and dispatched on

a general purpose mission.

Mr. Baron. So, he would be viewed as one of the major

assetg that

had in the congo at that point?

Mr. Tweedy, How major I don't know.

He was an

TOP SECRET ..

---

## Page 67

30770 I ArON 708) 5666

• A 111

::

6

7

9

i.

/===:

.

%.:

TOP SECRET

64

asset. Only time would have told how major it rould have

been. Ho was thought qualified to perform one of a variety

of things in the Congo by

Mr. Baron.

would one of those things for which he was

qualified have been an assassination mission against Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. An I told you previoualy, told you and Mr.

Wides previoualy, absolutely not, for the simple reason he was

basically dispatched, asseased and dealt with by the balance

of the Division, not by me personally,

person-

ally, and he was in elfect a station au set mounted by the

Division.

The Division knew nothing about the balance of this

thing.

MI, Baron. You are saying that Division porsonnel out-

side of yourself and

Iwould not have known --

Mr. Tweedy. To my knowledge.

Mr. Baron. - would not have known that the assassina-

thon of Lumumba was being considered? ...

MI. Tweedy, Considored at all, that is correct.

Mr. Baron. And -=

Mr. Tweedy. If they did learn of it I never knew

that they learned of it and certainly never learned of it

through me or Fields.

Mr. Baron. The fact that you left the recruitment and

training of this asset to other people in the Division than

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 68

Son.,no 19-81 2021301

]

2

6

9

1:.

-=

it

* A LI.

TOP SECRET

65

yourself and

would indicate to you that he wasn'e

being considered at that point for an assassination mission?

Mr. Iweedy, I will put it differently, As far as

I know he was never considered for an assaasination misaton

at all.

He thought he was presumably being sent ouf for deeds

of daring in the PM "lold and began to talk rather lusty when

he arrived, but I think he was soon put straighe.

Mr. Baron. PM 18 paramilitary operations?

MI. Tweedy.

Yes.

MI. Baron.

Let me show you a document we will mark

Exhibit 7, dated Decembor 17, 1960, which Is a cable to

the headquarters, marked to Director froreopoldville dealina

with WIROGUE on an approach. he made to agent OJWIN.

(The document referred to was

marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 7

for identification.)

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 69

Ion Ine 1919s 202: 364-1004

NH S

TOP SECRET

66

Mr. Iwoody. Yes, I know that.

This in the one we dis-

cussed two months ago and this happens all the time.

MI. Baron.

We are referring specifically to OWIN's

report that "HIROGUE had offered him $300 per month to par-

ticipate In intel not and ba member".--I am sorry -- "member

€ ¡ 'execution squad'".

" :

Mr. Tweedy, Yes; I remember all of this as a result

of your having previoualy brought it to my attention and i

* :

recall 1t, It was a typical example of an agont or asset

: full of plas and vinegar exceeding his brinf and he was

certainly put back on the track very early on.

But in this business do not confusr execution aquad

with anything to do with the assassination of Lumumbo or any-

::

thing else, It had nothing to do with that.

MI. Baron.

You are saying even though you would

assume that Mr.

testimony about poisons coming to

the Congo and instructions to carry out an asgassination

coming to the Congo was true, the approach that WIROGUE made

to QJWIN was probably not a part of that mission.

Mr. Tweedy.

:.

It was quite specifically not a part of

that mission. There was a chapter of accidents. You have

i.:

seen

it happen, I have scen it happen, a thousand times

be-

fore, two people who are periphically involved

in the same

thing

and run into each. 'er and one smalls something on the

other.

1::

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 70

porno (66+++ 5571 966-6501

TOP SECRET

67

MI. Baron.

Again, why are you no sure that this rould

not have been

connected in any way to the assassination

misalon?

Mr. Tweedy.

I thought I made that clear because

this man want out up to a point through what I would call

¿ . the open channel, it was developed by the Division, giving

training by the Division and was sent out. This had nothing

to do whatsoever with the other thing and wouldn't have been

handled that way.

MI. Baron. Could he have been instructed by Mr.

after he got to the congo, that he was to undertale

recruitment of assets for participation in an assassination

mission as part of his general duties in the Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. It is purcly a speculative question.

He

could have been but

would algo have

been required

and would have told headquarters what he was doing with him.

That was not the purpose for his being

sent. The purpose for

which he was

sent out was unspecific at

the time, generally

in the PM field.

Mr. Baron. Did this icport cocate a flay at headquarters

at the time when the

cable was

sent?

MI. Tweedy. No, not at all.

Mr. Baron.

It would have heen considered a fairly

ugusl --

Mr. Twoedy, It is not.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 71

071348-400

HIH

TOP SECRET

68

Мг. Вагол.

-- example of free wheeling by an operative?

Mr. Tweedy. It is the sort of thing that can happen.

What you want to do 1s put a stop to it.

The problem must have lasted 30 minutes.

But no great problem.

Mr: Baron.

w. Have you aver discussed events in the Congo

with sidney cottier?

::.

Mr. Tweedy: -

Have I ever discussed events in the

Congo with Sidnay Gottliab?

I can only assume I must have seen S.

catauring this

period, during this period, but I don't recall any discussións.

In fact, if there had been any discussions with sidney forg

. Aabion the Congo it would have been at that time.

Mr. Baron.

Why would that be so?

Mr. Tweedy. Otherwise Sidney söttfiebwould have had

no interest in the Congo.

Mr. Baron.

So you mean if there had been any dis-

cussions between yourself and Sidney Gottlieb

"it probably

would have --

MI. Tweedy. It would have surrounded these events.

Mr. Baron. The development of lethal biological gub-

stances

in his laboratory?

Mr. Iweedy. Yes, sir. Not necessarily chat, because

I think that would have been Kidney lottieb"business as s

what he developed in his laboratory. My only interest pre-

sumably would have been was there anything in his inventory

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 72

+5125888189-8411465

5

:.

TOP SECRET

69

that could possibly be used if we ever wanted to use something.

Mt. Baron.

You might have had at least an exploratory

conversation with him on that subject?

Mx. Iweody. I would bo surprisad 1f. I didn't.

Or perhaps Bussell had a conversation with him and then 1

follored it up, something like that. I would suapect that

probably the flat conversation would undoubtely have been

held between Dick Bissell and glancy corellad, but thie de merely

what I would suspect was the way it occurred.

I don't say that that la the way it occurred.

But

sant

other than that no conversation with Standy colflab on the con-

go at a11.

Mr. Baron.

I am at the end of my questions on specifir

tacts concerning the congo during this period of time leadina

up to Lumumba's death which, as you know, ta the narrow

subject of our inquiry right now, and firat of all I want

to say that I appreciate tremendously and know that the

Connittee is appreciative and grateful for your testimony

here today. It is a difficult subject. It is only one

narrow aspect of what the Committee is undertaking, and un-

pleasant, but unnecesary aspect to assemble.

I wonder if you have any facts

that you would like to u!

to the record that you think are necessary to put our din-

cussion today into context?

MI. Tweedy. I think the strongest recollection about.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 73

0018101708) 394-6001

TOP SECRET

70

my period as Chief of the African Division and the Congo --

let's leave the balance of Afilca out -- and U.N. and U.S.

involvement in the Congolese matter, that I have never seen

an element of the Agency so totally Involved in a matter which

clearly had the highest policy approval. I am not calking

,. " about Lumumba, I am talking about the congo.

* •

Mi. Baron. There was an extreme sense of urgency at

that time?

Mr. Tweedy.

Not only an axtreme sense of urgency, i

the U.s. was supporting the U.l., the Agency was supporting

the U.S. Government, the U.S. Government requests. What the

Agency was doing was very closely coordinated appropriately

with any organs of government that need to be covered, mostl:

State, the White House.

I must say the Executive Department

was very much working as a team during these days. AGain for-

get Lumumba. I am now talking the whole Congo action. And

I never felt that anything we were doing was wandering off in-

to left field or that I didn't know

the way the white House wis

thinking about things, or the State Department was thinking

ahout thinas, and the National Security was thinking about

things, and i have no reason to believe they ever felt that tre:

didn't know how CIA was thinking about things. It was an ext:..

ordinarily close thim.

I remember

Mennen Williams

trying in form a

Congo club. When I

retired from the African Division I was

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 74

tro no 13082 7971 494-4000

:!

=

TOP SECRET

71

given a little thing for a watch chain, if I had one,

which would be a member of the Congo Club, and it was rather

typical of the way the government worked on this thing and i

personally felt excellent advised that the U.S, was absolutely

right to support the U.N. on this. I think it could have been

a total disaster 1i Kutanga had been allowed to succaed,

and although Mobutu was acting like an ass now, that 1e

Africa for you, but on the whole that country has done pretty

well and I consider we had a considerable role in giving it

• chance to move the way it has.

There are going to be ups and downs with the things

but that is the way it is. I feel very stronaly about it.

Does that somewhat

answer your question,

does that help?

Mr. Baron. I simply wanted to give you a chance.

Mr. Tweedy. I felt that very strongly and no other assi

ment that. I have ever had was this kind of government team

and cooperation ever really required. because we weren't

engaged or I wasn't engaged in that kind of activiey.

MI. Baron. Is this government team efforts that you ar

talking about one that was primarily put together to carry

out the paramilitary activities in the Congo in che

latter part of the 60's, '62, '63.

Mr. Tweedy. It was put together to preside over what-

ever

activity the United States Covernment felt it needed

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 75

=e-are, dA 2071 944-000

FAIL

TOP SECRET

72

to be engaged in in the Congo. This included such things as

purely policy questions of what the Ambaseddor to the u.N.

might say to the Secretary General of the U.N.or what the

President might want to say conceivably I suppose to the

Chief of the Belgium state on such matterg. Everything

6

certainly didn't just involve what CIA was going to be

Involved In. It was the whole policy ball of ax with res-

pect to the Congo which obviously had many ganglia and which

¿ tho CIA part and paramilitary activity was just a bit.

Mr. Baron.

Did this high dogree of organization and

i. intensity of concern begin sometime after the death of lumuni

or had it gotten rolling?

Mr. Tweedy. I think

Mr. Baron.

After the Congolese independence?

MI. Tweedy. I think the U.s. Government was thoroughly

!..

seized with the intimate problem and danger of a disintegrating

" Congo that started in the earliest days of independence

"and continued and, of course, when the

Techombe-Kutanga

thing became a fact of life, which is basically why the U.i.

was there, then, of course, that was it.

In other words, I would say that u.s. involvement, !.s.

concern,

merely moved with the events, as anybody could read

them in the

press just continued and continued, but one thin:

was perfoctly clear, was that the lif. was quite determined

to see this

thing through. Nothing had been clearer than

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 76

see potato s0%, dete

TOP SECRET

73

the way President Rennedy presided over those two metings.

He was annoyed by the Congo and Irritated by it and he was

worried that he had to spend so much bloody time on it, but

he was damn well determined to see the thing through and he

was continually goosing his staff to do just that, but

in support of the U.N. We weren't going to do it all by

ourselves, It couldn't have been clearar.

Ms. Baron. All right, as I mentioned before, the

Committee in interested in your wisdom on policy-making and

analysis in the intelligence community yenerally and there may

be other members of the Committee staff that would like to call

upon you to testify on other subjnuts because of your long

experience in Agency activities.

But I want to thank you now for your complete coopera-

tion and the tremendous amount of information that you

have

provided

on this one

subject

that has been very helpful?

MI. Tweedy. Thank you, Mi. Baron. I can assure you an!-

thing I can do to help the Committee

in

other

areas I

will be glad to do it and if I don't think l can help be-

cause I don't think I know enough about the subjuce I will jus:

say so, allurtion: am not afraid to jut a, two bits in.

Mi. Baron.

As far as your two bits goes, we would

be interested

in your two bits worth on policy recommendatiu!:

in general, institutional, critique or suggestiong for change

or any kind of recommendations that you would care to make.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 77

cor., ro (Doxe 202) 396-4000

TOP SECRET

74

and we will take that up at some point in the future. But

you have obviously had a good deal of expariance at the policy

level in the Agency and we like to take advantage of that.

That ia all, thank you.

Mr. Tweedy. All right, than you very much.

(Whereupon, at 3:55 p.m.. the hearing was concluded.)

6

7

TOP SECRET

---

