# 157-10004-10283

## Page 1

157-10004-10283

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10283

RECORDS SERIES :

LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCK

FROM : BELIN, DAVID

TO : KNOCHE, HENRY

TITLE :

REQUEST FOR COPIES OF CIA DOCUMENTS

DATE : 05/23/75

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION

BELIN, DAVID

CIA DOCUMENTS

CUBAN OPERATIONS

CASTRO

CABLES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NN 50955

D001d:32202172

Page 1

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

---

## Page 2

SECRET - SENSITIVE

May 23, 1975

1 - Addressee .

- File

- Chron

T'- Belin Chron

1 - Cargill Chron

C-II - 6

Hit. E. Henry Knoche

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Knoche:

In connection with our inquiry, I sould like to

request copies of certain documents referred to in a lay 15,

1975, memorandus, which has been forvarded to us, entitled

"AND Research of DPD Piles Related to Cuban Operations."

These documents were provided by :

I of your Inspector

General office to Mason Cargill of my staff on May 21, 1975,

for a review; however, copies were not provided at that time.

The documents we require are as follow:

1.

Menorandun for the record, unsigned, undated,

Subject:

"First Meeting of Branch Four Task Force, 9 March

1960."

This memo outlines the meeting of the Branch Four

i outlines

Group which apparently was to concern itself with covert

operations against cuba.

to

2.

Cable, dated August 30, 1960, from Headquarters

This cable reads as follows:

"1. Attempting obtain one helio. Expect

this to fulfill all operational

and emer-

gency reguirements.

RE REP 3 PARA

2B Do not approve.

Justification assignment this acft for

strict operational and energency."

3. Cable, dated April 4, 1961, to DELL from

This cable, written

appears to be a request ron

an agent within Cuba that certain couipment be ali-cropoed te

Among the items requested in this cable, are one 50-

caliber nachine gun, two boxes of springfields with telescopic

sights, plus other weapons and rockets.

01288

RIC: clb

(5)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO SECRETA

DECLASS!:: ON AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

# 212398

SEUSITIVE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZER

27-7-94

(OXB)

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE DEFICE

HW 50955 DocId:32202172 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET - SENSITIVE

- 2.

4.

cable, dated March 27, 1961, to Babu and

This appears to be another message from an agent within cuba.

written in Spanish, it is translated as follows:

"March 23 I told Luis Bueno to ask you

opinion regarding sabotage Cia. Electricidad

(electric company) in order to leave Havana

ten days without power.

We can coordinate

with attenpt against Fide. in public appear

ance (at) Sports Palace.

pearest ridel in accordance with general

suggest attempt

Light and Fidel possibly can be

coordinated with Pinar del Rio. Reply urgent.

Cable, March 29, 1961, from BELI to

This cable racounts another message apparently received fron

an agent within Cuba.

The agent who sent this message had the

cryptonym "HOTLOX."

The English translation of this cable

reads as follows:

"Plan (4) 9 April. Fidel will talk at the

palace.

Assassination attempt at said place

followed by a general shutting off of main

electric plants in Havana Veladura.

Cocupy

the public square, telephone company, atares

(arsenal) and MINFAR (Ministerio de Fuerzas

Armadas Revolucionario - Amed Forces Ministry).

Action throughout the entire island combined

(with) your debarkation at Salado and Santa

Maria (del) Mar.

We need arms enter Havana.

We have sufficient men and courage. State

of mind desperate impossiole to endure this

longer. Every day situation vorse daily

arrest.

We can blow up any electric company

at anytime. Consider what this represents

for us after the action.

Ansver before

1 April. Agent 2637."

6. Cable, dated ApIll 5, 1961, to BELL fron

whose cryptonym was NOTLOX.

The English translation of this

01287

SECRET - SENSITIVE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE DEFICE

I7 50955 DocId:32202172 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SICRET - SENSITIVE

"Your message 15, Brand, Chacho, and Iuls

only have arms for 59 men. Blowing up (of

central electric plant and possibly attemot

on Fidel will be decidedly carried out

9 April.

Once this (is) achieved impossible

to maintain clandestine organization in Cuba.

Your nilitary aid is decisive.

If it does

not come that date we are lost."

7. Cable, dated June 4, 1961, to BELT from

Thia message transnits a message received from the agent

NOTIOX fron within Cuba. Its Inglish translation reads as

follows:

"Functionary Italian Enbassy by the name

of Moratori says he works for one intelli-

gence organization of yours, he says he is

in contact with Martin Elena and others

and that you have plans for invasion

within 30 days after killing Fidel, advise

if we can confide in Moratori."

3. Cable, dated May 3, 1961, to BELL frOm

This nessage transmits another one received from an agent

inside Cuba.

The cryptonyn of this agent was TEKLOK.

The

English translation of the message reads as follows:

"We are contacting all groups (dos) to

orgarize one united front with a coordina-

tor.

You name hin or we elect hin.

Tell

uS.

Will

try kill Fidel today. Andres OR

but still hiding. His men gone to hill.

Want know and what can be used. (as Ica)

Iuis Jorge."

SECRET - SENSITIVI

01288

PROPERTY Of

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

NITT

50955

DocId: 32202172

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET - SENSITIVE

• 4-

Also, I request to be supplied with the true

identities or the addressors and addressees of the above

nessages, which are identifled in them by cryptonyms, as

well as the identities of the agents within Cuba who sent

then.

Further, we would appreciate copies of any replies

the CIA may have sent in responge to these messages coming

out of Cuba relating to plans to assassinate Castro.

Thank you very nuch for your help with this

matter.

sincerely,

David W. Belin

Executive Director

01289

ECRET - SENSI-IVE

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

50955

DooId: 32202172

Page

5

---

