# 157-10004-10286

## Page 1

157-10004-10286

Date: 09/07/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10286

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO : DC/OPS

TITLE :

REVIEW OF OSWALD FILE

DATE : 05/23/75

PAGES : 29

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

MEXICO CITY

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

REVIEW OF OSWALD FILE

CASTRO INVOLVEMENT

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/07/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32202175

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

{2126/98

dated 5 January 1962 describing events

at the

yearly Communist Party cell meeting. The cell leader.

Morse

BENITE Zabola, said that the Communist Party in

Guatamala should form a single new party; "We need not

preoccupy ourselves over the politics of President KENNEDY

because we know, according to prognostications, that he

will die within the present year, 1962."

15. This report apparently had been discounted when

it was received and was not forwarded until the Station

re-reviewed all of its material after the assassination.

The file reflects no follow-up or formal dissemination

of the report.

ENIGMATIC THREATS BY CUBAN THIRD SECRETARY IN THE

7 NOVEMBER 1963

HAU

GE,

16.

after the

KENNEDY

assassination, indicated that at the Soviet reception

on 7 November 1963, the Cuban Third Secretary,

Ricardo L. SANTOS Pesa, discussed the recent refugee raids.

on Cuba and their implications with a host-country diplomat,

concluding with the admonition: " ... Just wait and you

will see what we can do. It will happen soon." Asked to

be more specific what would happen soon, SANTOS replied:

"Just wait, just wait."

17. These data were passed to the Warren Commission

by memorandum, 31 March 1964. SANTOS was reported to have

14

SEC

RET

NW 50955

DocId: 32202175

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

a history of medical instability and was summarily recalled

from the Hague reportedly for reasons related to that fact

in April 1966.

CONVERSATION OF CUBAN EMBASSY EMPLOYEE;

LUISA CALDERON, AFTERNOON OF 22 NOVEMBER 1963

18. At 1730 Mexico City, time, about five hours after the

KENNEDY assassination, a Cuban Embassy employee named

• "Luisa" received a 'télephone call

in Spanish

from an uniden-

tified male outside.

19. The caller asked her if she had heard the latest

news. "Luisa" jokingly replied:

"yes, of course, I knew

it almost before KENNEDY ... Imagine, one, two, three and

now; that makes three Ishe laughs], what barbarians!

20. Both speakers agreed on the seriousness of the

assassination. "Luisa" also stated that the party at

Silvia DURAN's had been called off so it would not appear

that they were celebrating the death of KENNEDY, nor would

they have the party coincide with the burial. Finally she

said she planned to move that night into the house of a

doctor (a woman) friend.

21. Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto suggestion

of foreknowledge? This is the only item in the

coverage of the Cubans and Soviets after the assassination

that contains the suggestion of foreknowledge or expectation.

15

S

ECRET

HH 50955 DocId: 32202175 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

23. There is no evidence in the OSWALD case file that

Silvia, DURAN was subjected to a systematic elicitative

interrogation that would have related her dealings with

OSWALD, known or confirmed

with the data held

on the Cuban DGI, its personalities and methods, in

Mexico City. Was it normal for a case like OSWALD's,

considering the fuss, he allegedly made with AZCUE, for the

applications to be handled solely by a local employee and

a lame duck like AZCUE whose slot had been taken by the

DGI chief? Whatever the answer to these questions, they

were not asked at the time. And there remains the more

fundamental question: accepting the DURAN story on

its

face, could it have happened without the knowledge and

participation of the DGI personnel above cited? This

seems unlikely especially because VEGA is later cited by

a Cuban DGI defector as having stated he was aware OSWALD

made several visits to the Cuban Consulate. It is clear

CASTRO's overseas intelligence and security service could

have more in its files than was surfaced in the DURAN

was taken by Vincent Theodore LEE, the organizer of the

Fair Play Committee for Cuba, with which OSWALD established

relations from Dallas during the period 19 April

2 November 1963.

There is an overlap between LEE's and

VEGA's travels to Havana during that period: VEGA

departed Mexico City on 6 January for Havana and returned

on 13 February 1963. •

18

# 1915

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32202175

Page 4

---

## Page 5

{

SECRET

statements. Coming back to the beginning: "Luisa" -

Luisa CALDERON - as a member of the DGI unit in Mexico City -.

could very well have known something that would make what

she said to her unidentified caller less a matter of

boastful self-indulgence than was assumed at the time.

SILVIA DURAN, SUBSTANTIAL AMPLIFICATION OF ADMISSION OF

ALLEGED PERSONAL, RELATIONS WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD, 1967

24. The defects viewed in hindsight of the Silvia DURAN

testimony already have been suggested above. (In that

context of criticism it would also be relevant to reconsider

the implications of the two

on 26 November 1963 between the. Cuban President, DORTICOS,

and his Ambassador to Mexico, Joaquim Hernandez. ARMAS,

because the thrust of the conversation dealt with the ques-

tion whether Silvia DURAN had been asked about lor been

offered?] money payments by her Mexican interrogators.)

25. As of September 1964 Silvia DURAN gave up her

Cuban Embassy job. In the spring of 1967 Silvia DURAN

was reported

to have

cut all relations with Cubans. Her account, in 1967, of

how she had been taken into custody and had been interrogated

after the assassination repeated what was already known.

She added, under circumstances that did not permit

to

challenge or,elicit corroborative detail, that

19

SECRET.

HN 30953

DocId: 32202175 Page 5

---

