# 157-10008-10000

## Page 1

157-10008-10000

788/p0

Örans

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10008-10000

RECORDS SERIES :

BOX 133

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

NETI

NEZ6

57/21193

Date: 08/34/92)

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFOAMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZEL

ISEETTIN

AGES (5 DOGS,

6/12/98

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

• FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 06/00/75

PAGES : 108

SUBJECTS :

CASTRO

CUBA

OP. MONGOUSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT•

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/27/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

[R

R

Ri

COMMENTS :

Box 133, index cards Jun-Jul 1975 cables

NH 50955

Doeld: 3220350B

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Page

1

---

## Page 2

DocId: 3220350B

Page ?

CIA HAS NO GENECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATIOX /QD/OA

FELEASE OF ThIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

2-2-941

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

EASTRO

DATES:

4/23/63

CATEGORIES:

CUBA 1

SPECIAL GROUP

FITZGBRALD

OCCURRENCE:

asked Fitzgerald whether Castro's innediate-entourage.

had been ponetrated. Fitzgerald replied that l

N.Wg

maid ter in mee..n)

SOURCE:

Memorandum, dated 4/23/63, prepared by O

Kilpatrick.

FILE:

and

STAPF:

DATE:

7/2/75

:

:

---

## Page 3

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED 2-2-9Y

PERSONS/ENTTTIES:

DATES:

CATEGORIES:

FITZGERALD

AMLASH

OCCURRENCE:

November 14,1963

Castro

met with

FITZGERALD.

who reported to him AMLASH's reaction to his meeting with

[said that AMLASH dwelt constantly on the fact that "he could not

understand why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which promised a final

solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the US Government gave much equipment

•, and if he does not get

advice and materials from a U.S. Government technician, he will probably become fed up

again, and we will lose whatever progress we have made

SOURCE:

IG REPORT 1967

TOP SECRE

STAFF:

F Baron

FILE:

DATE:

7/1/75

950955

DocId: 32203508

Page

---

## Page 4

DocId: 3220350B

Page

Hia

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRICATION ASID/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUIWENT

AS SANITIZED A Y

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

AMLASH

ARTIME

DATES:

Feb. 11, 1965

CATEGORIES:

Castro

OCCURRENCE:

AMLASH reported to thef

and one Belgian FAL rite with silencer from ARTIME's secretary.

that he was "to receive one pistol with silencer

Both weapons come

from U.S. and now in !

7" (103)

TOP SECRET

SOURCE:

IG REPORT 1967

FILE:

STAFF:

DATE:

7/1/75

F Baron

---

## Page 5

CIA HAS NO 00 JECTION TO

DSCLASSIHCATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

TOP SECRET

PERSONS/ENTITIES:

DATES:

CATEGORIES:

KING

J. C.

IG REPORT

HARVEY

EDWARDS

May 23, 1967

CASTRO

BISSELL

HARPERN

OCCURRENCE:

The following sources of information were used in preparing the IG REPORT of

1967: (1) Files: Furnished for review by the Director of Security, the Deputy

cations, (2) Interviews: Desmond Fitzgerald, Sam Halpern, Bruce Cheever, J. C.

King, Altonso Rodriguez,

J. D. Esterline, Edward Gunn, Howard Osborn, Janes

031

O'Connell. Sidney Gottlieb,

Sheffield Edwards, Richard Bissell, Lawrence Houston,

John Warner,

Robert Bannerman, [

William Harvey, Cornelius Roosevelt,

Richard Ober.

SOURCE:

FILE:

1G ER, 26 OP SECRET

STAFF:

Baron

DATE:

7/2/75

DocId: 32203508

Page

---

## Page 6

03

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIRICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

2-2-94

PERSONS/ENTI' ES:

DATES:

Helms

Harvey, Wm.

Gunn. Dr. Edward

5/25/67

CATEGORIES:

CASTRO

The memorandum of April 25, 1967 which introduces the IG's Report

CURRENCE assassintin

don assassination plotting in relation to FIDEL CASTRO indicates

that the only written records which served as a basis for the IG

Report were:

Notes of William Harvey; Records of Dr.

(Office of Medical Services; and, brief records of/

(of TSD). Some operational

files were also used.

• Edward Gunn

For the most part, the Inspector General's office reliea upon

03

information given to us orally by people who's memories are fogged

by tine.

(1)

"We interviewed everyone whom

we could identify as likely to be

knowledgeable, with the exceptions of MR. DULLES and GENERAL CABELL. " (2)

A complete list of the interviewees

is attached

at Tab A.

to the IG Report

"If there are significant innaccuracies in the Report

they are most likely to occur in faulty ordering of the sequence

of events." (2).

SOURCE:

16 Report 1967

STAFF:

Baron

FILE:

DATE:

DocId: 32203508

Page

---

