# 157-10014-10072

## Page 1

157-10014-10072

Date

Page

08/06/95

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

157-1001410072

RECORDS SERIES

: HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 10-H-04

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

SSCIA

FROM

TO

MCMANUS, GEORGE B.

TITLE

:

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

07/22/75

53

: OPERATION MONGOOSE

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICIIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH

DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/21/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

:Box 3

[R]

— ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET S

The Initri Statra Brnate

R599

Report of rooseding 3i4l2)

Hearing held before

senate select Committee to Study Governmental

perations With Respect to Intelligence Aotivities

Tuesday, July 22, 1975

Washington, D. C

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over

to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

110 FIRST STREET, S. E

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-0000

TOP SECRET

HH

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

2

---

## Page 3

R SECI

T0R8 (A1D8 202) S44800

SONIENTS

TESTIMONY OF

George B. McManus

PAGE

3

5

6

EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT

No. 1

No. 2

No.

FOR IDENTIFICATION

7;

8

9

10

11

1?

13

14

15

16

1"

18

1'9

15

Washing:nn, D.6 2000]

24

2!

24

20

TOP SECRET

50955

DooId: 32423460

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

AMIARD : amt

Phone fAres 292) 540-400

2

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Tuesday, July 22, 1975

c..

6

7

8

9

10

11

13

14

15

16

1:

:::=

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to

Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:15 o'clock

a.m., Room 224, Russell Senate Office Building, the Honorable

John Tower (Vice Chairman of the Cuumittee) presiding.

Present: Senators liart of Colorado, Tower (presiding)

and: Schweiker.

Also present: Frederick A. 0. Schwarz, Chief Counsel:

Curtis R. Smothers, Minority Counsel; Charles Kirbow, Paul

Wallach, Joseph diSenova, Patrick Shea, Charles Lombard, Rhett

Dawson, John Bayly and Michael Madigan, Professional Staff

110510:95:-991. 5.E. MasAnGIOn, D.C 20001

::

2:

2!

TOP SECRET

NH 50955

DooId: 32423460

Page

---

## Page 5

TOR SECRET

• (Ares 202) 581

2

3

4

5

6

7

queen

Senator Hart of Colorado. Mi. McManus, we will swear you

In, and the testimony will begin, and we may be joined by

other membars of the Committee.

Would you raise your hand?

Do you swear that the testimony you are about to give will

be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so

help you God?

Mr. McManus. I do.

Sanator Hart of Colorado. You may be seated.

Mr. Schwarz, our Counsel, will begin the questioning.

C.

10

11

12

13,

14

15

16

17

18

410 Fies1 Street, S.E., Washongion, D.C. 20003

2::

2!

24

25

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

5

---

## Page 6

TOR SECRET

Phone lAras 2021 548-8006

a ..

"".

4106us1 S1r9e1. 5E, Washington, Washengion, D.C.20001

1

TESTIMONY OF GEORGE B. MC MANUS

2

Mr. Schwarz. Would you give your full name and address

3

to the Reporter? ..

4

М. McManus. My name 18 George B. McManus, my address 13

5

P.O. Box 161, 'Barnstable,. Massachusetts, 02630.

Mr. Schwarz. •As I told you, we always go through a

7

procedural matter with the witnesses at the outset, and ask you

If you know you have the sight to counsel?

MI. McManus. Yes, I do know.

10

Mr Schwarz. And if you want to ston and obtain counsel

11

you have that right.

12

Mx. McManus. Thank you.

Mr.. Schwarz. And you have your Constitutional rights.

17,

14

Mr. Mclanus. That's right. Thank you.

15

Mr. Schwarz.

Now, Mr. McManus, you were flist employed

by the CIA when?

16

17

MI. McManus: In May of 1946 by Cantral Intelligence

18

- ..

Group, the predecessor organization.

Mr. Schwarz. And you stayed with the Agency until when?

20 !..

Mr. McManus: Until May 30th, 1970. That is, the

2:

" predecessor organization after it was organized.

2:1. MI. Schwarz. Now, prior to 1962, would you just give a

brief, a very brief summary of the things you did for the ci

24

Group and the Cantral Intelligence Agency?

25

MI. McManus. I entered tha Agency as a Naval Officer. !

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET

mano (AeRa 202) 3981000

...

pan.

r.

2105.08t 591901.5.8

had been Naval attache in Capetow and was ordered to the Centrall

Intalligence Group where I began organizing the thing that 1s

known now as the Contact Division. It is an organization to

4

develop intelligence from the American business community, set

5

up & natwork so that we could see business people, univeralty

6

7

people, travellers and so forth, and I was engaged in that

operation until 1951.

8

In 1951, I went to Germany and organized the Defector

9

10

Reception Canter, the idea being that we would process people

who were defectiny from the Soviet Union and satellite

1:

countries. And I then organized a group called the Returnes

12

axploitation Group dealing with German scientists who had been

1' " taken by the Soviots to the Soviet Union after World War It.

!: la would induce these people back from Fast Germany, Interrogatu

it ! then for information on soviet scientific and technical devel-

1i " opments.

1:

I left Germany in September of 1955, Saptember or October,

!;.

and I was sent to

ag

the Chief of Station and I remainel

1 there until October of 1960.

7 :

I returned to leadquarters and was assigned to duty in

Headquarters until - yes, I was on duty ir Yeadquarters until --

2r

wall, for a long time, but in December of 1961 --

Mr. Schwarz. Then

you got into Cuba matters?

Mr. McManus. This was when I was asked to make a surve!.

MI. Schwarz. I want to come back to that, but after you

TOP SECRET

HH 50953

D001d:32423460

Page 7

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET

5

mono (Ares 202)

C..

r.

W A NO

810 8 1008 59-999, 38. Washingian. DC. C.20001

1

finished working on those Cuban matters and working generally

2

for MI. Helms, can you recount just briefly what you did in

3

your ramaining tour of the Agency?

4

Wall, let me see if I can summarize lt for you.

5

You became the Executive Assistant to Admiral Rayburn

6

who was the DCI?

Mr. McManus. Right.

8

After I finished the Cuban show, I want over and took over

9

the cover staff, and then I went on to Rayburn's office.

10

Mr. Schwarz. As his Executive Assistant?

11

Mr. McManus. Right.

12.

Mr. Schwarz. And after he left, what did you do betore yru

17.

retired?

14

Mr. McManus. Vice-Admiral Rufus Taylor came in as the

new Deputy, because Helms moved up to Rayburn's position, and

16

" I broke him in and loft for Germany, and retired in May, 1971

1:

in Germany.

1&

Mr. Schwarz. Now, for questioning on the Cuban period.

1:

You first

camt into that in Decembar, 1961?

Mr. McManus. Right.

Mr. Schwarz. And you lastad in that until after the

*: : MONGOOSE program terminated sonatime In the fall or

.1962.

:: Is that right?

Mr. McManus. Right.

24

==

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

?!

TOP SECRET

50955

DooId: 32423460

Fage

B

---

## Page 9

ToP

"SECRET

Pore (Ares 202) 998600l

C.

4107181 590894. 5.8, Maskregenn, DC.20001

1

'What, vare you anked to do in December, 1961?

2

MI. McManus. I was asked to make a survey of what was

3

4

going on in the intelligence collection field in Cuba, and I

spent the Christmas week in Miami where we had our Cuban

5

station, and I looked into all of our clandestine activities,

6

the number of reports we raceived, and how many agents were

7

dispatched, what was being done about the flow of refugees

8

from lavana to Miami. I wrote this report and submitted lt to

9

the authorities when I returned.

10

As a result of this report, I had recommended a very

11

Intensiva effort in the interrogation of this flow of refugees

1: " because I felt there were a very great number of intellectuals.

12.

well-informed people who were coming in.

14

Mr. Schwarz. And somathing called the noa-Lacka Center

15

was ultimately set up?

1€

Mr. McManus.

Well, this happened. Then I was told to

1:

implement that, so I set up the thina called Opa-Lacka, yes.

In the interrogation conter.

it. Schwarz. All right.

Now, did you attend, in January, on January 19, a meetin

:

with a number of people, including the Attorney General of the

2: " United States concerning Cuha?

Mr. McManus.

Yes, I did. In his office, in the Attornev

cionaral's offico.

2:

Mr. Schwarz. Would you put in front of the witness, an

TOP SECRET

14h

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 9

---

## Page 10

KTOP SECRELY

prone (Ares 202) 9466006

2

3

roudd you mark as MoManus Exhibit 1, a memorandum dated

January 19, 1962 for the DCI, Subject: Meeting with the

Attornay General of the United States Concerning Cuba, and

insisting of three tured pages and then a soup of five

handwrittan pages attached.

' 5

6

7

(The documents referred

to ware marked McManus

Exhibits No. 1 and '2

respectively for

1dentification.)

HARD A PAUL

749

A10 8 10s1 S11991,57

Mashirgins. 08.0000d

2.

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page 10

---

## Page 11

STOP SECRET

Mona (Arns 202) 3124

1

2

6

7

8

Mr. Schwarz. First, 1a that your handwriting, Mr. McManus?

MI. McManus. It 1s Indeed, yes.

MI. Schwarz. And the typescript 18 a typewritten version

your handwritten notes?

Mr. McManus. With some mistakes in it.

Mr. Schwarz. Some typographical mistakes.

MI. McManus. For axample, "not" instead of "now" chanqes

the paragraph 2 in the beginning, changes the meaning completo- :

1y.

..

r.

410 4 0011 S9.009. 38-Washington, D.6.80001

Mr. Schwarz. Which word is that?

11

12.

Mr. McManus. Paragraph 2 of the typed memo, third line

2, "would not attack the Cuban problem," "would now" --

MI. Schwarz. Okay, yes.

14

In addition to the attendees who are shown or page 1.

15

Mr. Helms attended, is that right?

16

Mr. McManus. Yes.

Actually, I wrote this memoranda for Helms' signature.

Apparently the original is not here with his siqnature, so

the

19. I there

is Kichard Helms.

2 :.

Mr. Schwarz. Now on the second page of the typed varrio:

::at subparagraph e, there is a paragraph which reads as follows:

2: " 'accordingly, a solution to the Cuban problem today carrier!"

and then you indent certain words, and you put them in

quotations, "'The top priority in the us cov't --all else is

24

secondary -- no time, money affort or manpower is to be spared.""

26

TOP SECRET

HM 50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 11

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

9

MORo (1r00 202) 304

1

2

Now, who is that quoting? whose words are those that you

r.

quoted?

MI. McManus. Those are the words of Robert Kennedy, the

4

Attorney General.

5

MI. Schwarz.

Did you understand those words to include

6

permission to assassinate Fidel Castro or have anything to do

7

with assassination?

Mr. McManus. I did' not. It never occurred to me.

Mr. Schwarz.

Would you characterize Mr. Kennedy, lf you

10

were taking a sports analogy, would

you characterize t

1?

what his demeanor was like in that meatina?

MI. McManus. Well, there was not any question that he

had called this group together and he really wanted action.

li In other words, there was no question. He was very vehement ir:

1: " his speech. He said, we're going to got moving here, he said

16,

we have got to be underway. And he was really patting the ,

i pressure and heat on.

And that came through to me very clearly

¿i: and I am sure to everyone else in the room, and there was't

:: any question that if there was any problem, all you had to do

was five him a ring and he would see that you not results.

I think that is somewhere in the notes here that I did

is not put in the finished material, you know.

:.:

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

Now, apart from the particular words that I quoted to vou

:: ' In focusing on the

spirit of the meeting as a whole, did you

TOP SECRET

50956

DocId: 32423460 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

PROo (Ares 202) 344-6001

10

::*

r.

ARO

..

41081089591091.88

Washington, D & 2000)

understand the spirit of the meating as a whole to contemplate

2

or authorizo assassination?

Mr. McManus.

Absolutely not. I never thought of that.

4

I had no idea that that was contemplated.

5

MI. Schwarz. Okay.

6

Now, following this meeting, did Me. Helms ask you to play

7

a role with respact to monitoring or following the progress of

8

the task force 'and Mr. Harvey?

Mr. McManus. I was an assistant and dealt solely with

Cuban matters.

11

Mr. Schwarz. Assistant to whom?

Mr. McManus. To llelms.

17

Mr. Schwarz.

To Helms.

;..

1÷

15

• Mr. McManus. But I was primarily interested in intell1-

sance. After we had the flow of Information boginning to come

•In from the refugees, it became clear to me that there was a

1:

great Soviet threat, and I followed that very carefully. I could

see the build-up developing in Cuba, and I thought that was

the

heart of the matter. That interested me more than any other

aspect of the show.

::.

I did write a weekly report --

2:.

Mr. Schwarz.

For Mr. Helms?

:::

MI. McManus. For Mr. lalms.

It was printed up, perhaps the DCI signed it. I don't

an' know what the name of it was, but it was a special report, it

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 13

---

## Page 14

TOP SECRET

pono (Ares 202) 36416000

1

2

4

5

6

11

was sent to sevaral people in government. It was sent to the

White House, SECDEF, State, Attorney General, the Bureau, 'I

guess, in which I would summarize the highlights of intelligence

gathared during the past weak, and 1' then I had an operational :

summary of what had been done operationally during that week.

Mr. Schwarz. And that you obtained from Mr. Harvey, did

you?

8

9

10

11

1?

r.

14

19

16

17

410 8 1091 Sirper, 58

Washington, D.C.2000.1

1'9

200

21

Mr. McManus. The operational?

MI. Schwarz. Yes.

Mr. McManus. I would ask Harvey to supply that information

to me. Harvey would give me the information, I would adit it

and out it would go.

Mr. Schwarz. So was Mi. Helms looking to you as his

principal staff assistant on Cuha to keep generally on top of

What was going on in the Cuban operationg for him?

Mr. McManus. Partially, Yes. I would say I was assistin::

him, particularly

in the intelligence field and keaping the

community aware of what progress. wa were making in Intelligenc=

gathering and operations, and I followed

all of the traffic on

Cuba.

MI. Schwarz: You were gpending, in a sense, your full

time on Cuba, weren't you?

MI. McManus. I was indeed, yer.

Mr. Schwarz.

And 11r. Harvey was spending his full time :

24

21,

Cuba?

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 14

---

## Page 15

TOP SECRET

PrOTo (A08s 202) 5484

12

410 Firal 5te991, 56, Mashingion, D.C. 2000)

1

MI. McManus. He was the operational head of the task

2

force who was responsible to General Lanadale.

3

4

Mr. Schwarz. Your understanding was that Harvey's boss,

Harvey's raporting channel, was to Lansdale to get tasks from

5

Lansdale?

6

MI. McManus. Yes, Lansdale gave him tasks, yes.

Mr. Schwarz. And ha: gave him constantly changing and

now and different and confusing tasks?

9

Mr. McManus. Ye.

10

Mr. Schwarz. You are smiling. The record ought to show

1]

what your smile is intended to convey.

MI. MCManus. Well, Ed Lansdale had been picked by the

Attorney General as the man in charge, you see.

I am sure

14

20 M

Lansdale assumed as soon as a task force had been

set up in th

Contral Intelligence Ayency that

this was his private sort of

16

Army, that he could task his battalion commander to do this,

and he would sand

him another task, and he'd retreat, advance,

go sideways, and as time went on, there were fantastic thinas

li that came in, do this, do that, wilte a paper on this, what

2:: about the posgibility of balloons, and all

sorts of proporan!.:

x: Ideas, papers would have to be written, just dozens of Deol=

er ¡ working'flat out to most these requirements.

%: And so therafors, you see, these tagks were comina from i:

¿i individual outside diractly into a small task force withir. thu

2.6

Contral Intelligence Agency.

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DooId: 32423460 Page 15

---

## Page 16

TOP SECRET

13

81081081511889.

• MatRingira, Dl 2000)

Mr. Schwars. By the individual, you mean Lansdale?

2

Mr. McManus. From Lansdale to a task force that was set

3

up under Bill Harvey, and Bill Harvey wain't really even part

of the clandestine service. In other words, hare wad'.Hrlms,

the Deputy Director of Plans, dandestine, and here is Mr. John

6

McCone up here as the Director. So all of this was going right

down into an organization, back and forth, courlers going,

8

meetings being held. It was odd organizationally.

9

10

MI. Schwarz. It was odd organizationally?

MI. McManus. Yes.

1)

MI. Schwarz. And perhaps odd from the point of view of

12

the personalities involved as well?

MI. McManus. Kather, yes, rather.

14

Mr. Schwarz.

We have

seen some of that.

15

Now you ware spending full time on Cuba and Mr. Harvey was

16

spending full time on Cuba. What proportion of Mr. Halms!

1'%

time want into Cuba?

Mr. McManus.

I would say very little, as a matter of

1'9

fact, excopt for responding to quastions

from around town ani

E what the progress was, and what do you

think the future holy.

::. Otharwise, he was rather removed from it. I mean, he had the

2i Whole world to supervise from the clandestine point of view.

"ir. schwarz.

And you said something interesting that!

?:

hadn't understood before or huard before:

You said MI. Harle!'

20

was not really a part of the clandestine services. What did !

TOP SECRET

17H7

50955

DocId:32123460

Page 16

---

## Page 17

TO SECRET.

one (Are 808) 346-4000

14

• **.

сон..

r.

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16.

1'7

1i:

1'9

2.%.

mean by that?

MI. McManus. Well, organizationally, if you look at the

clandestine service, you have divisions and you have staffs,

and he was not in a division and he was not in a stati. A

special force, a task force, had been set up, so that organiza-

tionally he was the man nominally over them, and he was

receiving his orders, not from someone in the hierarchy, but

he was receiving them from a man outside of the organization

who had been picked by the Attorney General to be the commander

of this affort.

Mr. Schwarz. In other words, Lansdale.

Mr. McManus. Ed Lansdale, General Langdale.

MI. Schwarz. Okay.

Now, did you, after the Cuban Missile Crisis had been dadl

with and MONGOOSE was coming to an end, did you write a

mamorandum about MONGOOSE, looking back over it and saying what

lessons we can learn, and so forth?

Mr. McManus. Yes, I did.

"r. Schwarz. And who asked you to write that mamo?

Mr. MeManus. I don't think I was asked to wilto this

pioco of paper. I was talking to llelms about problang that i

could foresee in the future, and we were discussing this, ana

I said, you know, I ought to sit down and put this on a piere:

of paper. It would he much batter if I would put it on a nieo.:

of

paper. So I just wrote a think piece. I didn't address it

TOP SECRET

HM 50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TOES CRET

15

5OMO (Ares 202) 56

2

3

5

6

to anyone, I just wrote a piece of paper.

MI. Schwarz. Okay. Let's put in front of you as Malanus

Exhibit 3, a three-page

memorandum with your signature at the

end dated November 5, 1962, with some handwritina on the front

page, and stamped at the bottom 01110 to 01112.

Is that the memorandum we were just talking about. Mr.

McManus?

Mr. McManus. Yes, that is the papar. That 1s the little

think ploce I wrote.

WAND A FAUL

10

11

12

13

14

16

16

17

18

13

(The document referrer!

to was marked McManug

Exhibit 110. 3 for

idantification.)

, Warhongian, D.C. 2000%

%:

2%

2!

24

25

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

18

---

## Page 19

ITOPISECRET

pons (Arse 202) 334-8001

1

2

3

4

6

16

Mr. Schwarz. And you gave that after you wrote it, and

you have recounted the conversation you had with Mr. Helms.

Did you give it to Mr. Helms?

MI. McManus. I save it to him.. This la what I think,

Yes.

r.

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

1c

41081099 S1r994.SF

Vy sat

inatan, D.C. 2000.9

?!

'k!

2'4

24

Mr. Schwarz. And is it your understanding he then sant

It forth, sent it out to Mr. McCone, the DCI?

Mr. McManus. I think he either took it up to Marshall

Carter or perhaps he took it to John McCone. I think that is

what he intended to do after he read it.

Mr. Schwarz. But you don't know that one way or the

other, that is just your impression?

Mr. McManus. I don't think Mr. McCone was there on the

||, 5th of November, and it is my recollection he gave it to

Marshall Carter.

Mr: Schwarz. All right.

Did Mr. Helms make any comments to you about the substance

of the memo?

MI. McManus. No, he did not. He just thought I had some

interosting ideas in here, and there aro some fairly sharp

coinments, but I said that was my honest opinion, and I was

also making recommandationg here about organization, which i

felt was vary important.

1r. Schwarz. All right.

Now, part of the mamorandum deals with your understandin:

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 19

---

## Page 20

TOP SECRET

17

• (ApAB 809) 366

- 3

:".

810.F008t 591899.5f

- Washingten, D.€ 2000.%

1

of what happened, or what had been done during the MONGOOSE

2

program?

Mr. Melanus: Rlght..

4

MI. Schwarz. Lat me read to you the first sentence of

5

paragraph 4, "During the past yoar while one of the options of

6

the project was to create internal dissension and resistance

leading to eventual U.s. Intervention, a revlow shows that

8

policy makers not only shied away from the military intervention

9

aspoct but ware generally apprehensive of sabotage proposals."

10

First question. Who did you mean by policy makers there?

11

Mr. McManus. I think when some aspects of MONGOOSP, began

12

to be ravlowed at a higher lovel, you know, all the war to

13

1÷

Dundy and across that level -

Mr. Schwarz. Maxwell Taylor?

15

Mr. McManus. Yeah, that's rinht. .

16

MI. Schwarz. Robert Kannedy?

• 1%

MI. McManus. They felt that 10 GOOSF, vol know, the

Internal dissension and all is fine, hut we're not going to

!:

commit ary forces to invade cuba, and thy other aspect was

¿''" that they didn't ever like the lilea of a lot of sabotano,

because there were so many Cuhans, for examnla, even in flori:.

?, I and here wa had a big Strategle Air Command base dowa south o:

2!

Miami, I mean, there could hy all sorts of rataliation problem.

So guntially the feelina was, we ary goine to yo short of an!

21

sarious consideration of military intervention, and they were

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page

20

---

## Page 21

TOR SECREIS

18

* 1A070 202) 396

2

5.

6

7

8

9

10

11

13!

14 "

15

17

€ 10 foll Spree?, SE, Missporaion, D.C. 2000.3

%::

i:

----=

not very keen on sabotage operations.

Mr. Schwarz. I Interrupted your anuver to try to see who

you meant by the polley makers. You said persons on the level.

I think, of Bundy.

Mr. McManus. Well, I've got to be careful in saying, I'm

not - 1t is difficult for me to name, but I would say certainly

people who were concerned with these matters, the senior. people

in, government.

MI. Schwarz. The sendor people in government who were

concorned with these matters, who included Maxwell Taylor,

MCGeorge Bundy, Robert Kennedy, McNamara -

MI. McManus. Mil of thosa people, but I go on to say here.

it was only Taylor - if you could read the next sentence --

Mr. Schwarz. WYes. Will you read the next sentence into

the record and explain what you meant by that?

Mr. MCManus. Yes. I say, "The only sendor official

Involved outside of the Agency who thought in terms of militar!

action was Maxwell Taylor."

Mr.. Schwarz.: I quess

that speaks in terms sufficientlv

for itself.

Mi. McManus. That's right.

Mr. Schwarz. What did you mean by the sentance that

follows that? Maybe you could read that into the record and!

explain what you meant by it.

Mr. ichanus. It is difficult for me to put myself back a!."'

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DooId: 32423460

Page 21

---

## Page 22

*TOP SECRETE

.88. Washin0108, 191. 20008

1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10'

1:

12.

:4

15

16

19

many years, but I think at the time I had reached the conclusionl

you know, after the Missile Crisis was all over and I looked back

on it, I falt that a tremendous amount of the activity that har

bean carried on, intensive activity of all kinds, was really

almost game-playing, you know, it really wasn't that serious.

I mean, if you look back in the perlod, you will find that

• lot of people were criticizing the government for inaction in

Cuba, not doing something, not sending the Army in there, not

doing all these kinds of things. So Lansdale and his group

were active as hell in getting, you know, keeping a trothy

operation going all the time.

You know, there were things in

the paper about. Cuhans doing this, and we were trying to do that

about Cuba.. Actually, not very much was accomplished.

What I was worried about, on the intelligence side, was

the Sovist build-up which was coming to me through intelliaence

which is clear as a ball that this build-up was gradually

getting more intense, the Soviet presence was increasing, and

this was what -- you see, it wasn't this

flaw. It was those

:: Ruskies who were coming in there and solidifying thair

: position while wa were carrying on all these balloon operatio...

:: and Lord knows what.

Mr, Schwarz. And the froth, as you dascribed, that is

:: your charactorizatior of the MONGOOSE proram?

Mr. McManus. I would say that is what I thought at the

time I wrote this. I think that was what was going through ?:

TOP SECRET

MANY

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page

22

---

## Page 23

ротА (Алав 202) 3A44000

r.

...

C.

• Master garn, 111.8000911

TOP SECRET

20

hand. This was my honest opinion.

2

Mr. Schwarz. Based upon your review of the project over

3

the months you were associated with it?

4

Mr. McManus. That is right.

5

Mr. Schwarz. Thank you.

6

Sanator Tower. (presiding). Are you through?

7

MI. Schvarz. Yag.

8

Senator Tower: Mi. McManus, in this think piece that you

did that we have been referring to.--

10

Mr. McManus. Yes, Senator.

11

Senator Tower. On page 3, the top of the page, "practica!!:

1:

everyone at the operating level agrees that Lansdale has 10st

13

his value. Bundy and Taylor are not improssed with him. Bill

14

Quinn and company obviously have his number, as do wa."

1:,

What was General Quinn's job? This is the only document

16

I've seen or looked at closely in which Bill Quirn's name

1'7

surfaces.

Mr. McManus.

I believe General Quinn at the time, to te

I best of My recollection, was than

running the Defense Intell:

2': Jence Mency. Bill Quinn had been ir oss and had been with

2: the cIG many years ano and ssU. I know Bill quinn quite wel!.

27 and I think he was in the hafense Intelligence Agency, of in!.

I cannot remamber what the organisation was at that time, h*

hes was the boss,

Senator.

2!.

Senator Tower. I fue.

So he was not necessarily dira.

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 23

---

## Page 24

TOP SECRET

21

Pone (Ares 202) 381

6

г.

r.

8100 8 101 51001. 58. Mashingian, 0 6. 2000.1

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

11

i :!

1:

14

15

16

1'7

Involved in this Lanadale operation?

MI. McManus. Oh, no, sir, not at all, no. But I felt

that over there in the Defense Department there were other

people who shared the view that we had, I mean there were some

other senior people in the Department of Defense, Bill Quinn

being a man I had graatly respected and had worked for at one

time when I was a younger man.

Senator Tower. So actually what was happening was that

Lansdale was, in effect, through back channels, tasking Harver

directly, Is that right, but no reference to this paper.

MI. McManus. What was that, sir? Excuse me?

Senator Tower. Was Lansdale, through back channels, or

at least without going through the normal chain of command,

was directly tasking Harvey, is that correct?

Mr. McManus. This was the way it was set up and it was.

authorized. I mean, he wasn't cutting through any hierarchy

that he wasn't supposed to. This was set up that way. It was

a most unusual organizational set up, but that was because the

Attorney General was

running

the thing, and this was the wa!

he wanted it. He wanted Lansdale as his man to be in charge. c

i. run hard over this group, and that is what he did. He ran her!

?il over the group.

Senator Tower.

well, that, of course, I dont think there's

:: anything terribly unusual about that. I deal directly with

subordinates in my office.

2:.

TOP SECRET

50955

DooId:32423460 Page 24

---

## Page 25

•TOP SECRET,

22

PhOne (Arne 202) 56

1

3

4

5

6

I yield to counsel.

Mr. Smothers. Mr. McManus -

Senator Towar. Excuse me..

Saritor Hart?

Senator Hart of Colorado. I have some questions, but go

ahead.

8

9

10

1:

Sanator Tower. I'm sorry, Gary.

Senator lart of Colorado. Not at all.

How large was Task Force W?

Мг. МсМалив.

I can't give you the figures right offhand.

Senator liart of Colorado. Roughly?

Mr. McManus. My recollection is that there must have beer.

betwean four and five hundred men in it. That is my recollec-

tion.

A10 F0s: 81001. 38.Mas9engi0r. D.C.20001

17

14

15

Senator Hart of

‚Colorado. All under Harvey 'e direction,

16

immediate direction?

1:

MI. McManus. I can't remembar when Harvey left.

Senator lart of Colorado. But when he was there.

Huh?

= .

Senator llart of Colorado, When Harvey was there, were

¿: tho four or five hundred men under his direction?

i: 1!

Mr. schanus.

Yus, yes, suro thyy were.

Senator llart of Colorado. How many of those were in

shhington as opposed to South Florida?

26

Мт. Мемапия;

Well, you've got me there. This la onlv a

TOP SECRET

17H7

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page 25

---

## Page 26

23

r.

ASI

r.

• c.

C.:

$ 10 510st 591999.5.€

Washnaton, D.6 10001

1

guess, and I may be wrong. let's split it fifty-fifty, two

2

hundred and two hundred, mybe, or it might be a little higher

3

in the Miami area.

4

Senator liart of Colorado. Since you ware involved, at

5

least to some degree, on MI. Helms' behalf in this whole

Cuban operation --

7

Mr. McManus. Yes, sir.

8

Sanator Hart of Colorado. Were there ever Washington

9

meetings of Task Force W where these 200, roughly 200 people

10

would got together and Harvey would lecture them, or anything

like that?

Mr. McManus.

I know that Harvey would hold stall meetirin

17

of the senior people.

1÷

Senator Hart of Colorado. And that would be about how

25l many people?

16

Mr. McManus.

I would say five or six, probably.

17

Senator Hart of Colorado. Did you attend any of those

meetings?

12:

Mr. McManus.

I never attended any of those meetings, no.

Sanator llart of Colorado. To your knowledge, did the

Attorney Genaral ever pick up the phone and call directly in:

?.r.

Mr. Harvey of any of the senior peonle in Task Force W?

Mr. Mclanus. I really have no knowledge as to whether te

24

did or not.

25

Sanator lart of Colorado. But you don't racollect llarve!

TOP SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 26

---

## Page 27

TOP SECRET

24

PORA (Ar96 202) 380

r..

Washington, D.C. 20003

410

ever saying to you, I just talked with the Attorney General,

or anything like that?

MI. McManus. No, I don't. No, I do not.

4

Senator Hart of Colorado. Would Me. Helms ever have

5

attended any of these senior staff meetings?

6

MI. McManus. No, no sir.

7

Senator Hart of Colorado. But to pursue Senator Tower's

8

question, the link between Ganeral Lansdale and Mr. Harvey was

9

an institutional one? It was established that way?

1C

Mr. McManus. Correct, that's correct.

1:

Senator lart of Colorado. It was Taylor to Lansdale to

1:

Harvey?

17

1÷1

Mr. McManus. That's right, that's right.

Senator Hart of Colorado. In MONGOOSF.

16

And what role did Mi. Helms play in that link?

MI. McManus. He really wasn't involved in that link

::: directly. He was much off to the side, because was really ar.

:: employee of Mr. Helms.

Mr. Helms was his senior officer, but

again, on the other hand, he was taking his direction from

someone

outside the organization.

Now I think you spoke, Serator, about Taylor, Lansdale.

et cutera, as I remember 1t, it was more the Attorney General.

::' Lansdale. I think Lansdale had a very sort of close relation.

2:

ship with the Attorney General, and I think --I sort of brin

26.

that out somewhere here.

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 27

---

## Page 28

TOP SECRET

25

2

-

8

9

10

11

13,

14

15

1'7

1i:

''9

i::

124

21

MI. Schwarz. At the bottom of page 2 -

MI. McManus. Yes, I see.

Some paople sort of thought he was a mystic, you know.

Senator liart of Colorado. How did you gather this relation-

ship between Lansdale and the Attorney General?

Was this rapresentations that Lanadale made to you?

MI. McManus. Well, my first impression I had In this

meeting in the Attorney General's office, you know, you just

sando people, that there's sort of a relationship, you know.

thera's a special relationship of some kind.

And I could foul that, Jeez, almost in the air, as far

as the Attornay Genoral and Langdale, and I knew that lansdal:

aftar hours and all, I knaw from him, he would spend quite a

•u.-

bit of time with the Attorney General, so I knew thare was more

just a relationship of a general officar in the Pentagon and

the Attorney General. There was a close personal relationshi?

in. which Lansdale had, I would gay, a lot of influence, some

sort of influence.

That's why I say when some of thase -- that's why I sar

when some of these people thought he was a mystic, perhaps i

don't got my point over to you, you know, but that is what 1

thought. That

is why I put it in there. I, just wrote down wis

I thought, as I was writing it up for my organization, and l

wouldn't put anything down but what I thought was the truth.

Serator Hart of Colorado. Did you yver hear of the

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DooId: 32423460 Page

28

---

## Page 29

TOR SECRET

Phone (Arse 202) 568-6001

26

C.

r:

=

, Mashingten, 1 6

1

Special Group (Augmented)?

2

Mr. McManus. Sure, yes, sir.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Did you ever attend any of

those mestings?

MI. McManus. No, I never attended any of those, senator.

Senator. Hart of Colorado. Did you ever hear any discussions

whatsoever concerning the assassination of Fidel Castro?

8

MI. McManus. Senator, I never heard any discussion of

9

20

1t at all, never. I never heard any discussion of assassina-

tion, at any

time, any plans, discussion or thinking of

assassinaticn. Never.

Senator

Hart of colorado.

nasad upon your experience in

1: 1 the CIA, could such planniny or discussions have bean conducte

at the Harvey level without your knowledge?

'Ir. McManus: I'm not quite

sure I understand that question.

1 6:

"Senator.

Could he have discussal it?

Senator liart of Colorado.

Could he and his sonior Tast

:: Force l people have been plannina this or discussina it vitho

:: you finding out?.

:::

Mr. McManus. Oh, I think that was -- yes, he could, i!

"that. was what he wished to do, but knowing Harvey. I don't

:: think he would have discussed it with verv many people. I

mean, he's not an articulate

individual as far

as raver!:r

* 1.

what he has in the tack of his mind.

TOP SECRET

HT 50955 DocId: 32423460 Page 29

---

## Page 30

STOP SECRET

27

ROME (ASBE 202) 36A.

1

2

3

(General laughter)

MI. McManus. I do not think 'he would discuss 1t.

Senator Hart. of Colorado. Jou sald five or six people.

MI. McManus. I don't think he would discuss it with one

of them. No, I don't think he would

discuss it with them.

This is what I would call a need to know, a one man neod to

по.

...

4104181 StaRes, 56, Warrenator, DE 2000.1

5

6

7

8

Senator llart of Colorado.. Are you saying it's impossible

9

for five or six people in the Agency to plan assassinations

10

without it getting out?

11

MI. McManus. No, what I'm driving at, Senator, is that l

12

don't think that if ha was planning assassinatnion, he would

13

not have that many people involved in his staff. lle minht

14

have a special little inside group who probably wouldn't know

15

wily they were doing scartain things. You know, he could give

16

them orders to do something, and they would carry out the

1:

order. They wouldn't know what the and rasuit would be.

li:

Senator Hart of Colorado.

And that could be done among

1.

those few special people without others finding it out?

MI. Mclanus. •I suppose so. I'm just thinking in my

::

ordinary life, I ask people to do things without their

?:! knowing why or what my motive is, you know?

You could utilize individuals.

Serator Tower. Let me pursue Senator

Hart's question

just a step further.

TOP SECRET

14H7

30935 Do01d: 32423460 Page

30

---

## Page 31

TOP SECRETS

PRORA (Aras 202) 944-7000

2

3

4

5

6

- i

9

10

11

r.

17.

14

15

16

1':

. wash.ng.ne. D.C. 30003

":

:..

2!.

28

Was It standard operating procedure within the Agency to

compartmentalize to the extent that vary often people did not

specifically why thay ware doing certain things? Perhaps one

person knew or four different people were doing something, but

those four had no knowledge of how it all fit together?

MI. McManus. I think that could be said on a need to know

basis, Senator Tower, that very often that something very

sensitive was going on, that people would have to carry out

certain orders without really knowing the honest reason for

1t, you see, what the objective was..

Senator tower, During the course of your career in the cli

ward you aver tasked to do things without fully understandira

why you were doing it?

MI. Melanus. Personally I don't think that I over was.

happened to enter the Agency in a fairly senior position

as a young man, and stayed there.

Senator Towar. Mr! Smothers?

Mr. Smothars.

If we might, Mr. McManus, can we go back.

for a minuty to Canaral Lansdale and your characterization o!

him as a mystic along with a discussion of the organizational

anomaly here of lansdalo's diract tasking of the arency.

iould it be a fair statement of the situatlon to say ane:

apparently, based on a close relationship that lanatale har

Either with the Attorney General or the Attorney Goneral

President, that he had been nut in charge of a working arous.

TOP SECRET

30955

DocId: 32423460 Page 31

---

## Page 32

TOP SECRET

29

evan

r.

6:

?:

]

2

4

6

7

8

9

10

1:

1:

14

15

17

::

working group which Mt. Harvey represented CIA, and that it

was the view of the Agency that Lansdale's charter allowed him

to task Harvey direct?

Mr. McManus. Wall, there wasn't any question in my mine.

that Lansdale was able to charge the task force with whatever

ho wanted them to do. In other words, Lanadala was a General

without an Army, if you took Task. Force w away. When you but

1n Task Force W, that was his Army, and Harvey happened to be.

1f you call him a battalion commander or whatever he was, ther

was it. And Lansdale gave the orders.

Mr. Smothers.

Okay.

In the normal

Mr. McMarus. Excuse me. I must -- excapt insofar as the

organization and the task, force would be running in a normal

way a lot of clandastine operations, putting people ashore 1r.

boats and so forth, you

know, a continuing standard.clandesti..g

infiltration.

Mr. Smothers: Then in order to task. Marvey, it would no

heve bean necessary

for Lansdale to qo through the DCI or

through lelms?

Mr. McManus. No. He -- as

I ramenher it, sir, there we:

?:couriers running back and forth batween Lansdals's office al!

Harvey's office continuously. I think the corraspondence ? ..

, 24

seen, You have correspondence in the file which

shows the?t?::

writing to one another back. and forth.

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DooId: 32423460

Page

32

---

## Page 33

r

50955

TOP SECRET

PRIORA (ANDO 202) 3A11

591001.5.E.Washong:0on, DE. 20001

2

3

5

7

8

10

11

1?.

14

1c

1ё

30

Mr. Smothers. Let me then draw on your general experience,

Years of experience with the Agency and your familiarity with

both the method of operation of lialms, DCI and the other

principals at this time, to raise a few hypothetical questions

with you, if I might.

One, lot us assume that Mr. Harvey had, in fact, been

tasked by General Lansdale to develop assassination plans.

Is it your opinion that this. Information would have been shared i

with 11r. Helms by Harvey, and he would have gone to Helms and

said, this 1s what they've asked me to do, should I do 1t?

Mr. McManus. Wall, I really cannot answer that.

Mr. Smothers. Based on the operatiny procedure at this

time, as you knew it?

Mr. McManus. That would be difficult for me to answer

that question, really. I roally don't think I can answer thar

or give you a reasonable answer.

Mr. Smothers. Lot's trv it this way, then.

Do you bellave that. Mr. Harvey would take stang to carry

i: out an assassination without informing Mr. Helms?

Mr. Hchanus. I really cannot answer for larvey, but !

i: think he would be a damned fool if ho didn't.

i:."

Mr. Smothers. Okay.

2:

Let me focus, then, on the relationshin between Mr. lul''.

and the Director, Mr. McCone, as you krew it.

Is it your opinion that Mr. Helms kyot. Mr. McCone full:

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32423460 Page 33

---

## Page 34

TOP SECRET

Pons (Ares 202) $68-4008

31

C.

r.

C.

41050051 S11999.5 € Was9.n0:nn, 0.6. 200

1

Informed of the DDP activities?

2

MI. McManus. I always assumed so when I was -

MI. Smothors. Well, you noted here that your presance at

4

5

the January 19th meeting was for the purpose of making notes

so that the Director could be kept informed by Mi. Helma.

Wag that the normal course of activiey?

7

Mr. McManus. The reason I went along with llaime was that

8

I had already written a report about our current activities.

9

what had to be done. to improve the Intelligence gathering, and

10

-=

the Attorney Goreral apparently was aware that this was done.

1!

80 I went alona to represent this new idea of intelligence

1::

gathering. On the way over, Helms said, you'd better take

l some notes. I sald, fine, I'll take the notes. So I wrote l

this memo of the meating, and as soon as we got back, I had

it drawn Up -

15

16

Mr. Smothers. You wrote the memo for lelms' signature.

didn't you?

1c

Mr. McManus. That's right, so he could take it to Mr.

:: ¡cone immediatel%.

Mr. Smothers. Has this consistant with llelms' normal

method of operation?

?:

Mr. McManus. As I remember it, yes. I always thoughe

that he informed the Director. I always tried to keep the

Diractor informed.

21;

Mr. Smothers. Realizing again that wa are in a hypotherienl

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DooId:32423460 Page 34

---

## Page 35

TOP SECRET

32

ото (Aras 202) 348-

C

-. 3

C..

..

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'%

1i:

situation, and assume that there is, as there has been some

testimony to indicate, a conversation batween Mr. Harvey and

Mr. Helms regarding the question of assassination, and the

implamentation of assassination schames, would it be your

opinion that aftar determining an assassination scheme should

bo implemented, that Mr. Harvey and Mr. Helms would agree not

to inform Mr. McCone?

Mr. McManus. As I said, I always assumed that Mr. Helms

would kasp the Director fully informed of any activity that

he thought was sensitive or should be brought to his attention.

you know, any sensitive activity, any Information that was

devaloped that was important, as you would in any good organi?e-

tion, disciplined urganization. I mean, I lust assumed that

any man in that position would keep the Director, who has

the responsibilities that he does in this government, fully

informed. I mean, I would just assume that.

Thare is only one reason that I think he minht not that i

can think of, and that would be if someone told him not to tel!

14: him.

::

i.:

21

Mr. smothers.. If sonyone told him not to toll tha

Director?

• Mr. Melanus. If someone tolf him, now l00k, I don't waii:

you to bring John Mccond into that, Who that someone is. I

don't know, but it occurred to ma that this could happen.

Mr. Smothers.

In your opinion, is that the only cireunst.n.:

TOP SECRET

HM 50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 35

---

## Page 36

TOR SECRETS

pone (Alas 202) 144-16006

33

$10F0r11 591081, S.E.., Washonaton, D.C. 2000.1

1

In which MI. Helms would not inform the Director?

Mr. McManus. In my opinion, yes. Yes, sir, that ls my

opinion.

4

Mr. Smotherg. All right.

5

As you knew the Operation MONGOOSP. Cuba situation, who

would be in a position to advise Mr. Helms not to inform Mr.

McCone?

8

•MI. MeManus. I don't know. I really honestly don't know.

but -

10

"Mr. Schwarz. I thought he was going to finish his

1:

answer.

P5. McManus. I was searching my mind for why he wouldn'

12" Inform Mr. Mecond. I can't think of any reason for not infor

14

irg MI. McCone unless someone whom he thought was higher

15

authority told him not to.

Now, MI. McCone 1s one of the

16

finest Directors I ever knew. He was a broad-gauged, sincere.

1:

morally strong individual, and I think that if a matter of

that kind had been brought to his attantior, he would have

reacted violently immedia:aly, and Mr. Mccono had a areat

i Love for the Prasident o' the United Stitas, and ho sort of

looked at him in a way as an older son or a brother, a very

protective surse he had

about the Pregidart, President Keira!

and McCone would have immediately said, lesus, this is a nuw:

ballgame, number 1. Secordly, as ar individual, he would hu:..

2!

found it morally reprehensible, sea.

So I think that that.

TOP SECRET

14H

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 36

---

## Page 37

TOP SECRET

34

TOns (Aros 208) 361

r.

1

about summarizes my thinking on this.

2

MI. Smothers. Let me understand this, then.

3

Under most circumstances, and indead, under all circum

s!under jou can imagine, laime would have told verone, with

5

the excaption of a situation in which Helms had been told by

6

higher authority not to tell him.

Are we correct that far? Is that a correct statement, or

8

a correct summary of what you have said?

9

MI. Mollanus. Let ma just repeat, if I may, what I said.

IC

I said the only reason I could think of that he would not

11

Inform him 1a that someone instructed him not to. Obviously.

101

it would be someone more senior in gguerument, someone whom he

13.

"felt he ought to obey his orders, and who that is, I don't

14

know.

15

16

17

Mashingtoes, 191.20001

Mr. Sinothers. Well, understanding Caneral Lansdale's

position now as coordinator, his ability to task the ClA, end!

undarstand Mr. Harvey's position and his relationship to ur.

Helms, is it your opinior, even if llr. Helms had recolved a

I's " very clear directive with regard to assasgiration from renora:

:. Lansdale or anyone on that lovel, anyone on the level balcw

:: higher authority, or below the Cabinet laved, that Mr. Helms

would have considared that sufficiant hasis to proceed with th.

.:: execution of an assasgination scheme?

Mr. Mallanus.

I really can't answer that, sir.

Tred!!"

don't -

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 37

---

## Page 38

TOP S CRLT

pRomo (Ares 207) 344-8000

...

410 8 101 591099. 51. Hastington, 11 6

1

Mr. Smothers. Hell, didn't MI. Helms have access, regular

2

access, substantially higher than General Lansdale?

Mr. McManus, Well, I mean, MI. Helms used to go over to

all the time, you know. lla was always in and around the white

HOUSe.

Mr. Smothers.. Nell, do you think he would have taken

7

Ganera! Lansdale's ordar to assassinate Pidel Castro without

6

checking it out, without seeing if Lansdale was correct?

Mr. McManus. Do I think that he would take Lansdale's

order? No, I don't think he would take Lansdale's ordor to

assassirate Castro, no. That's my opinion. No, I definitelv

:: don't thirk ho would have.

Mr. Smothers. Understand now, we are going on your

; understarding of the way things operated at this time, as well

::.as the operation of the Adency.

All right, lat's look at 'ir. Helms' contacts, then.

Did he meat regularly with the President?

Mr. McManus. Did he meet with the President? Yes, ha

:: Me: with the President a lot. I've been in the office

• :.

when the President would call him on the phone and say,

Dick, what the hell's the story on this, I'm datting some

boil-rplate

from soine other Devartments.

And

we would look

into it and renort to him preciselv, immadiataly.

i...

Mr. Sinothurs. Those reporting to the Presidert, 11i tho

::

sometimes occur on Mr. Holns' initiative, or did ho wait for

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId:32423460

Page

38

---

## Page 39

STOP SECRETS

36

MORO (ArBe 202) 311

* = D

• Washingina, D6.20001

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

1?

14

it

1r.

the President to call him?

Mr. McManus. I think he usually walted for the President

to call him. I ramember one amusing incident when we rad

picked up some machine guns and I think it was the coast of

Venezuela, when Castro had landed there, when he was Interested

in stirring up trouble in the southern Hemisphere, and someone

sant one of these guns up to Headquarters and Helma was goina

ovar to see the Attorney General that day and he put the gun

in a little box he had there and took it over and showed

the

Attorney General, and I think the Attorney General called the

President and said I'm going to take Helma over to see you.

he's got a piece of equipment he wants to show you. I think.

you'd like to see it.

So they all know Halms there, the Secret Service and all.

you know, and, Christ, he walks right into the white House witt

this thing and into the President's office, and the President

took him and put it up, you krow, aimed around in the office

and said, losus, he said, Dick, you know, it's a good thing

you're a loyal subjoct.

So, this is the relationshin. I'm just trying to give

¿: "you the relationship there.

2r ! betweer. the President ard Richard Helms.

It was a close ralationship

:..

1r. Smotharg.

would vou describe the Islationshio betwe.:.

ii: Mr. ilelms and kobert Kennedu?

i :

¡r. cManus, I ryally can't. I tell ycu, l really ilor.':

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 39

---

## Page 40

-TOP SECRET

37

one (Ards 209) $10-8001

C:

..

Barrangina. 1) 6.20001

1

2

4

6

7

8

9

10

11

1:

13

14

15

16

1'7

1i:

1'9

%: :

that much about it. I was never present at any other meetings.

I don't know what the relationship was.

Mr. Smothers. All right.

Let'a raise a question regarding some other actors

Involved here.

You have indicated in your memo that the opinion of Canora!:

Lanadale was not terribly high in the Agency, and you seem to

Infer that he was simply tolerated by other persons based on the

fact that the President, or the President and the Attorney

General, had laid the mantle on General Lansdale for the

purposy of heading up the working group on Cuba operations.

Mr: Melanus.

Yag.

Mr. Smotherg.

You mentioned as one of the persons who

was trying going along, MI. Gilpatric who was then the Deputy

Secretary of Defanse. What was your understanding of MI.

Gilpatric's Involvement in the Cuha opeationg?

MI. McManus. I cannot answer that, but I just - at the

tima - it is hard for me to recollect, but somehow or other

I gathered a lot of this information ir. the Pantaron

and ov=r

at the whitt lousy and around, and I had a pretto nood ideà si

what people, how people had sized un lansdale, and 1t 1 put ir

*... le i phrast I would say they thought he was a wild man. vou

say, dudl they her to 70 alone with him because the Attorney

Gonoral over there was presauring them, you sea? You damn "al!

14

have to cooperate with lansdale.

so he was tolarated. It was:':

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 40

---

## Page 41

TOR SEGRET

38

2028366

1

2

3

5

6

8

9

C.

Just within the Agancy. Excuse me. You see, it wasn't just

within the Agency, and the: reason I was making these recommenda-

tiong is that I wanted to protect our own organization.

MI. Smothers. How wall did you come to know the wild man.

General Lansdale?

Mr. McManus. Well, I met him on the day I went over to that

meeting, and I used to see him from time to time, and people

from the task force would come up to me and say we have this

paper from Lansdale. I don't know what the hell to do. And

I'll say, well, I'll give you a hand, I'll help you write it..

write a report for him.

Mr. Smothers. In your oninion, was General Lanadale doin':

things inconsistent with the desires of the Attorney General?

Mr. McManus. I cannot answer that question. I do not

12

14

15

16

MI. Smothers. Well, you mentioned your observation of

the relationship between them, and you mentioned the fact that

the Attorney General was apparently pleased with General lans-

810 8 10 510001. 18. 1919100100,000.0000.9

1: dale.

It. MeManus. I don't know how pleased he was latar or..

but I think he was enamored of him in the sense that he trow...

2! he was a man capable of a lot of terrific activity that 1

suppost ambarrassed Castro. I raally don' know what he tho::.

•at the and of MONGOOSE, I really dor't know. But lansdale

certainly had his backing. As I say, Bobby kennedy was firho:.i

25

TOP SECRET

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 41

---

## Page 42

WTOPSECRET

Promo (Area

2021

C..

6.

1

2

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14 i

15

16

1'7.

1c:

39

his battle. Then I say in here, as recently as two weeks ago.

MI. Smothers. To the best of your knowledge, were any

of Lansdale's wild schemes or pokey schemes, as you described

them, over spacifically callad off and pulled back by the

Attornay General?

Mr. McManus. You see, I would not know about that.

Mr. Smothers. Wald, you apparently formed some opinion.

though, about the amount of backing Lanadale enjoyed at the

time of this memo, at the time of your think plece, and if we

could go back to that time, is it your recollection at the

time of this think pisce that General lansdale still enjoyed

the confidence of the Attorney General?

Mr. McManus.

weld, I think I say in paragraph 9 on the

bottom of page 2, "Absolutaly no attempt on our part shoul: lu

made to unseat Lansdals..

Remember that the Attorney General has

fighting Lansdale's battle as recantly as two weeks ayo."

So that, I mean, obviously I felt that there wasn't a thing

we could do about Lansdale, but organizationally, we could

protect a lot of our people from his depredations.

Mr. Smothers. Now this think piece is in lovember. You

2: first exposure to Lansdale is ir January of 1aia.

2:: . ir. McManus.

That's right, yes, sir

i!

Mr. Smothers, Based on your recollectior of the times.

and the state of minl or the conclusions that you apparant?"

26

drew at the time of the November memorandum, would it be you:

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460 Page 42

---

## Page 43

TOL

:40-.

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

opinion that in August of 1962, Genaral Lansdale did, in fact,

enjoy the confidence of the Attornay Ganeral?

Mr. McManus. Well, I would assure so. You see, I really

can't tell you that. I don't know. I would assume so, yes.

He was fighting his battles in November.

Mr. Smothers. Thank you. Nothing further.

Senator TOwer. Do you have any more, Fritz?

Mr. Schwarz. I do not.

Senator Tower. Thank you vary much, Mr. McManus. We

appreciate your appearance.

(Wharoupon, at 11:18 o'clock a.m., the hearina recesser. ).

WARD A

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

410, Forst S1rept, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003.

18

19

29

2

22.

21

24

25

TOP SECRET

HW

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

43

---

## Page 44

January 19, 1962

- MEMORANDUM FOR: The DC 1

SUBJECT

; Mecting ith the Attorney General of

the United States concerning Cuba

1. I attended a mecting at ll AM today in the Office of the

Attorney Gencral which was chaired by him. Others present

• Brigadier Gen. E. S. Lansdale (OSD)

Major Patchell (OSD).

Brig. Gencral Craig (JCS)

Mr. D. Wilson (USIB

Mr. Frank Hand (CIA) and,

Mr. George McManus CIA.

• (The Dept of State was not reprosented although invited)

2. The Attorney Gencral outlined to us "How it all started",

findings as they developed and the general framework in which the

U.S. Government would not attack the Cuban problem.

Brichly, these were the main points

(a) After failure of invasion, the U.S. Govt

relaxed and became less active on the basis "be

the to lay low".

(D) However DrI the months the complexion

of the refugee flow changed (ie upper classes out

first then middle classes dropping to lower middle

class cle which, he stated, indicated a strong

focling of opposition to Castro within Cuba.

(c) Progress in Cuba toward a police state and

Communist state was more rapid during this period

than thit made by any country in Eastern Europe in

01.S.19

HM 50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

44

---

## Page 45

radiations

an cquivalent period of time.

Hence, because of

the rapidity of advance, immediate action was

necessary.

(d) With these factors in mind Attorncy Gencral

had discussion at White House with President, SECDEF

(Taylor?) and Lansdale. SECDEF assigned Lansdale

to survey problem and he' Lanadale reportod to Pres,

SECDEF and Attorncy General in latc November

concluding

1 Overthrow of Castro regime was possible

Il. Sugar crop should be attacked at once

Ill Action to be taken to keep Castro so busy

with internal problems (economic, political

and social) that he would have no time for

meddling abroad (in Lalin America

detail

U.S. Covt was procluded from destroying the

current sugar crop (1) we were late and

overly optimistic and (b) "the assets of U.S.

Government were not as great as we were

led to believe".

(e) Ascordingly a solutión to the Cuban problem

today carried

"The top priority in the US Gov't

-- all else is secondary --

no time, money efiori or manpower is to be spared"'

(1) Yesterday (January 18, 1962) the President had

indicated to hiin "that the final chapter on Cuba had not

Lech wrillen" -- its got to be dune and will be done.

(g) Therefore the dtorey Gonoral directed those in

attendance at the mecting in address temselves to the

"'32 T'asis" (Sco progiam review

The Cuba Project

dated 18 Jan 1962) unallingly le said "It is not only

Goneral Lansdale's job lo put the lasts but your's to

carry ou with every resource at your command.

01.920

50956

DocId: 32423460

Page 45

---

## Page 46

3: The Attorney General inquired about the progress in establishing

& refugee interrogation conter at Miam! and was informed that this would

bo ready to start functioning initially by 15 Fob 1962 - the target date.

With respect to intorrogating the back log of Cubans we agreed that.

we would attack this problem by getting at the more rocent arrivals

first and work toward those who have been here longer. It was made

clear to the Attorney General that one could not rclate in time the

establishment of an interrogation facility with placing agents to live

in Cuba - in other words a body of information would have to be

developed over a period of intensive interrogation of many sources.

4. It was General Lansdales view that there were several tasks

amongst the #32 outlined upon which action could be taken without

awaiting this dotailed intelligence information. He noted for example--

the defection of top Cubans as being within the capabilities of the CIA.

0US21

30955

DooId: 32423460

Page

16

---

## Page 47

Guine, 19 1962

Sabject

tre United Slates coneri

-Q

Prelia ES Lansdo (o5e

Briz Gensid Graig (JCS)

Mr. s. Wilson

USI B

He Frank Hand (C/A) and

in Gorge MEMaruo_614.

versatel

Fa AFters The Atomes, Garan

intimed ts us

"Now it all ste:th,

0: 825

30955

DocId: 32423460

Page

47

---

## Page 48

to lome midle less which,

he steted, inclicated a stron

with apposition to atro

state was more resid durin.

Tus perse thath that muscle 1

(e)

pentle and lie inade sipire

I am Alime, die,

in hate Novindia concludin

01.52G

HTH7

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page 48

---

## Page 49

detail

C

50955

DooId: 32423460

Page 49

Castro so busy with interned

_problems ectronic

lime or measle

U.5. Gresmt were hott

as greet as me were lei to

wieve....

the Cuban proclin

-

inel chapter on Cis, had it kin

wilter

= Vigot tike done

0U828

---

## Page 50

(gi.

and will be done.

is Me it that i tonice

See program seven. The Cube

Project Lited 18 on 1962) unbling n

about the mil regens in

i reset infires

a refugee soner crite to

informed. that this would

intele by is ge 1967 = the

"lie back to

A Cutsi

ve agreed thut me world atti

the mister he sting inst

ms waste towed tess who lines

Gerines likel

052S

50955

DooId: 32423460

Page

50

---

## Page 51

ag hone a Сива

lure to be acmeloped res a period

sistencine in tessogation finery sons e

It was General Lans delis

win that there were severel

Taken without detos auritin

•UU

00S29

1217

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

51

---

## Page 52

Di. s oug

, 80., pes do!,.

: ) 600886608

Vles

When tse Presidont, ia his letter to Karuahchev 6f 27 O9t0be

gave "assurancos against invasion di Cubal la consideration of tãoy

Soviut ramoval of olicnsive weapoa, in Cuba undar UN suparvision,

Operation iongooso was on its death bod. When the Prosidunt starid

in his lotzer ol 23 Octobar to Kamshcker, "I considar my letier to

you of 27 Ociober a1d your reply of ioday as a firra undertaidag.on

the pari of both our governmeata which abould ba promptly carried

ou:" Cperation Hongoune died.

2. Il tbego agreoments ará carziod ous li soemo clear i2a:

Cusa wili de deals wich as another deniad arca 10 a maaner dude53

20: g=eady from shat ia which Cllhandles oler dezied Jr8ag. II

1jo agieemesia aro not carriad out, miliiary action cannos long be

d=layed. Ia nicher event she siongoose yiruchure ad ll has mu cxisied

In Covernzent is sbrougà.

1.5

3. Lo0kiag bacio to tho origina o1 Mosgooso ono findo lbe

• Miornoy General and Nº. Mcivarara doekiag primarily to =emove

lhe political auais lui: on the Uresident by tos Bay ol Pigs failuca.

Bolb the A.G. 20d Ibe Secrelary of Defense iul: li necessasy for

pulitical rsascas tbat some actica dalti be tason svila rsspeci to

Cuba 1o ingure loo Prenidest's luiro. 1a a nuijnell, lauy wero out

1o. duna CaglIo 0= 10 mile him cocceraie.

Sieeoi

1. Duriag ine pase year, waile one dí the obiiona ci ihe projece

was to ciead interaal diayonsion and renighaca leiding io ivestal

U. S. intervention, a review snows that policymaicors noi cnly sried

away from lio milicary intarvention aspect sut were geaurally aapre-

hengive of saborago proposala.

Tho only sezior olicial iavolved,

ou:sido the Agency, who laought in terme oi roilisary iczos waa

Naxwell Taylor.

Orhero llce loo Attoracy Geseral, MlcNanara,

Gilparic, ichayon aad laic: Juady viowed the project in a arrichly

poiisical ligc:. Hindsigat musi cow revoal :o othars, as well as it

hau :ouo, tbas a Caisi al Operaziona (i. 6. Lazudalo) was seve:

acrinlly neeced.

5. ist presen: uo genio: U.S. Guveramost officialá: cuad 1own

jo intamaysud in d éuture "Cubia difairo Speciai Groug." Lundy has

ilicady dubjosiad ina crsalios in Saio of i "Citico ci Cusin Eaio

Aiiaiay" or"Fre:

Cugin Aidlag" which in itocli id a muve ouisida

¿l iho ilciçoude strucruroe dli clandestiae ascorities di ind porc.od

ze ü,

0!1:0

HH 50955

DocId: 32123460

Page 52

---

## Page 53

TFV continue at a pland down.

Simificant atop have bees takestay

the Agency together with the military for contingency plansingen USLA

bas mored lato the propaganda flaid under State guidasce without

relation to the Mongoose structure. Mongoose can only live again

through "resurrection. "

6. Given these circumstances and in the ligòt of great gresaures

elsewoore in the world CLA, interaally, should move with great

rapidity to distance Tasx Fores l from any criernal accosy. This

would iavolve regularizing or institutionalloing TEl in order that

this uniquo group whica bas been available to Langdalo as a "whippiag

boy' becomas a normal pari oí our monolitaic Agency structure. By

such a movo, neila, Laasdale nor anyone else could got at these

rosources wichou: golog through regular chasiola. Vichia CLA we

would retara Cuba to the Weatera Hemisphere and treit Cuba as a

deniod area and relaro is io over-all IH problems. ('Throughout

Projec: Mongoose, this is precisoly tao manner in wnich Stata bas

handled the problera. As a result Lansdala never felt that ho had

troopa la Suito as de did la CLA.)

7. La accomplishiaz tbis, the only analogy i can chins of is a

согро зо одо.

We should not go through buzkruptcy which would

have to be innounced, bu: rather paay TEW through an inpublicizud

recelversaip sad raorganization.

Tho naud to realiga mangowod ind

asseto lor demaada in olier areas would be mufticient reason in itsei.

Ihe current sland down in a pericci sutriag for such a change in

r.

8. Concurrently, sha DCI should endorse Bundy's suggestion

and be sould encourage ¿be immediale establishmen: of an Office of

Cubis Exile Affairs in Siate. This would rolieve ClA oi one of the

mos! annoyiag and issolidle problemy we have faced. Tais would

place problaras of proposed Cuban Govaramca: structures, provisional

goveramests, platoras, exile polises, and ine like rigai whore they

balcaz - in le Degaitreat oi State.

•..-D. Abaolutely no atiemos on dur piot should be thirdo to undeat

Lingdale. Homerser toot the diomey Generai wisHjitng Langdaio'

baldo to recently du too weeds ago.

Secondly, dledamara and

Gilpatrio mull los upon Langualo do somathing di i layotic and are

2

30955

DocId: 32423460

Page

53

---

## Page 54

Gederal. Practically everyone at the operadog level agrees

1a11

Lansdalo has lost his value. Buady and Taylor aro not improased

with his.

Bill Quirs and company obviously have bis numoor as do

With a pollical solusion to the Cubas problera la hand reflocding

great credit on tho part of the President, the A. G. will drop Laaudalo

like a hot brick. Therefors, while awalring the outcome of the Cuban

tales, we muse ai ones dezy Lanadalo directlacesa to TElY.

Lassdalo can bave accasa as to all other ClA componesia ibrouga

the scl during the stand doma period.

10. Lasadale's reaction io any reassigament is ast to be a

violen: o0o.

Ho undoubiadly realizes tha: bo sever agais will so

in the position os a special advisos to tha two most poweríul men in

the country.

Therefore, if wa don't closo ranks within ClA and put

TEW boynad dig reach wisou: delay (except tarouga she DCI) be

• saigài be ablo to icílict serious dazago to CLA's standiag boiors bis

eveninal demise.

11. To sunmarize, the following action 13 required:

a. Interaally, insuladonalize IElY. Grile i: 1a20 WH.

(Defenso vill thes look to DIA los intelligenco and DiA tO Us.)

3. Pash (torougà ise Dil and Lundy) for the immoriaio

coiabloanent of to Olice vi Cubas Crilo Ailai=s 1z 23c

Departnest of Sia:a.

Guis Militan

180051962

NH

50955

DocId: 32423460

Page

54

---

