# 157-10011-10084

## Page 1

157-10011-10084

Date: 10/06/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10084

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : UNKNOWN

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

MARTINEZ

[R]

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

MARTINEZ (INFORMANT)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box 292, Folder 9

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32203852

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SSCI Box 292, Folder 9

292-9

Record Number 157-10011-10084

-3--

a Forner Miami Station maritine asset tho was torminated

31 hugust 1972, informed lit. Esterline that he and a

business friend,

had been contacted

frantically by the daughter or wife

of lit. Martines requesting

immediate assistance in getting Mr. Martinez' cai out of the

airport parking garage since it contained decply compromising

naterial wich had to be renoved before the Fsi got to it. Mr.

Esterline told

_thai under no circunstances

should he becone involved in this matter and

relayed the

incornation to Cia ricadquarters and the bland field Office.

A decision was nade by CIÀ licadquarters to pass this informa-.

tion to

the FBI at the Heauquarters level.

At MI. Esterline's

request fir.

obtained a description of the

autonobile and its location in the garage.'

A faulty description

Prevented

immediate location of

the car.

On the basis of

corrected

description the FBI on 19 June found and impounded

the car which in

fact did contain a number of old documents

relating to maritine operations in the carly 1960's and a note-

book, copies of which were nade available to the Miami Station

by the FBI.

In further coordination with the FBI lix. Esterline

confirnoi

that Bernard Barker had been a CIA employee and

that dir. Martinez, who was well known to the FbI to have been

a CIA enployee, was no longer an active enpioyee but was

maintained as an informant.

Mr. Esterline advised the FBI.

there might be one or

two telephone nunbers in fir.

Martinez' notebook relating to the Miani Station inasnuch as

HI. Martinez had been provided a means of effecting emergency

contact with the Station.

The FBI said it would be alert

to this possibility and accepted dir. Esterline's statement

that the Station had been totally unaware of bir. Martinez'

secret relations with dr. tunt.

The flI promiscu to avoid

disclosure of the fact that CIA had been instrumental in

helping then locate tir. Martinez' car because of the probisms

it could create for the source who had reported the natter to

CIA.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

I MAR 94

(1) (A)

FBI IntO

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 11/2/93.00

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 50955 DocId: 32203852

Page 2

---

