# 157-10011-10078

## Page 1

157-10011-10078

Date: 10/06/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10078

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO :

UNKNOWN

TITLE :

TESTIMONY OF OSBORN, HOWARD J.

DATE : 02/17/75

PAGES : 22

SUBJECTS :

MAJOR SUBJECTS TO BE COVERED IN TESTIMONY OF OSBORN, HOWARD

DASSIFYCATION : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

SSCI Box 288, Folder 9

send. to CIA

3/2194

classifel

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SSCI Box 288, Folder 9

TOP SECRET (XGDS)

288.9

Record Number 157-10011-10078

MAJOR SUBJECIS TO BE COVERED IN THE

TESTIMONY OF HOWARD J. OSBORN

February 17, 1975

Background of Mr. Osborn

See the written statement submitted to the Commission by

MI. Osborn dated February Il, 1975.

HW 50955

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

3

AUT 94

Page 2

TOP SECRET (XGDS 5B(2) EO 11652

By Authority of:

starters

- dare

---

## Page 3

-.

TOP SECRET

∞ 2-

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

= 3 .

TOP SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32203846

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Page Denied

---

## Page 6

TOP SECRET

5

TOP SECRET

NH 50955

Docid: 32203846

Page

6

---

## Page 7

TOP SECRET (XCDS)

COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE UNITED STATES

Washington, DC 20500

Nelson A. Rockefeller,

Chairman

John T. Connor

C. Douglas Dillon

Erwin N. Griswold

Lane Kirkiand

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

David W. Belin,

Executive Director

February 13, 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

FROM:

ROBERT OLSEN

SUBJECT:

Surmary of an Interview of Howard Osborn, conducted on February 10

and ll in the offices of the Carmission by MI. Robert B. Olsen

Present throughout the interview, which was conducted from 2:00 pm to approxi-

mately 5:30 pm on February 10 and from 12 noon until 2:45 pm and from 4:45 om

to approximately 8:00 pm on February 1l, was the attorney for Mr. Osborn,

Jack Debelius.

Mr. Osborn apeared voluntarily at the request of the Cormission staff. At the

outset, Mr. Debelius raised a series of questions:

1. He asked us to supply an outline of the authority of the Commission. He

was handed a copy of the Executive Order creating the Commission and spelling

out its duties and powers.

2. He asked whether the Commission had subpoena powers, and he was advised that

it did not.

3. He asked whether the Cormission had power to grant immunity to witnesses, and

he was advised that the Cormission does not have such power.

4. He asked what liaison has been established, or will be established between the

Cormission and the various Senate and House Committees which will be investi-

gating the CIA and other intelligence activities.

He was told that the com

mission expects to establish such liaison, but that none of the ground rules

or arrangements have yet been agreed upon.

5. He asked whether Mr. Osborn would have an opportunity to review the transcript

of any recorded testimony that he may give to the Commission or to the co

mission staff. He was told that the Commission staff had agreed upon a policy

of allowing any witness

to examine the transcript of his own testimony.

6. He asked whether Mr. Olsen had been cleared for security and whether Mr.

Osborn was free to reveal all levels of classified information in the course

of the intervicw. He was advised that such a clearance had been obtained for

Mr. Olsen and that Mr. Osborn was free to answer fully any questions put to

him within the scope of the responsibilities of the Commission.

TOP SECRAT (XGDS-5B(2) BO 11652

By Authority Of

NH 50955 DocId:32203846 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MOP SECRET

- 2 -

MI. Debelius stated that he had carefully reviewed his own situation as a

former employee of the Office of Security within the CIA and that he had

concluded that there was no prospect that he would be called as a witness

either bu the Cormission or by any Congressional of other committee. Hence,

he did not feel that there would. be any conflict in his representation of

MI. Osborn under the canons of ethics applicable to the legal profession.

Background of MI. Osborn

Howard Osborn graduated from the Virginia Polvtechnic Institute in 1940 and

shortly thereafter entered the military service. After World War II he was

briefly with Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, and then joined the Central

Intelligence Agency in late 1947. He served in various assignments within

the United States and Europe prior to September 1963, including assignment

as Assistant to the Inspector General and positions within the Directorate

of Plans.

In September 1963 he was named Deputy Director of Security. At

that time the Director of Securitv was Rob Bannerman. On July 1, 1964, he

was named Director of Security, and he continued in that position until earlv

March 1974 when he applied for disability retirement and went on sick leave.

He was retired on disability on December 31, 1974, having not returned to

work since going on sick leave on March 8, 1974. He states that he had no

involvement whatever with Agency activities after March 8, 1974.

Activities of the Office of Security

The Office of Security provides guards and

security personnel to protect the

phsical facilities of the Agency. It has ressonsibility for overall security

measures for all CIA installations, both in the United States and in foreign

countries.

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page B

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

. . • 3 -

TOP SECRET.

HW 50955

DooId:32203846

Page

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

- 4-

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 10

---

## Page 11

•TOP SECRET

- 5

TOP SECRET

NH

50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 11

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

- 6 -

MoCord Letters (continued)

2.

TOP SECRET

N4 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 12'

---

## Page 13

• :

TOP SUCRET_

NW 50955

DocId: 32203846

ET

añea

---

## Page 14

- 8 -

TOP S: CRET

FT

abea

DocId: 32203846

NW 50955

---

## Page 15

TOP SECRET

- 9-

TOP SECRET

1214

50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 15

---

## Page 16

TOP SECRET

-10-

Mail Intercepts

M. Osborn reports that a mail intercept program in New York City began in about

1952 and ended in 1973.

TOP SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 16

---

## Page 17

TOP SECRET

- 11-

Mr. Osborn is also acguainted with the fact that from 1969 to 1971 the project

of mail surveillance occurred from time to time in San Francisco.

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page

17

---

## Page 18

TOP SECRET

-12-

TOP SECRAT

NW 50955

DooId: 32203846

Page 18

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET

- 13 -

The Nosenko Affair

Nosenko was a KGS agent who defected to the United States in Switzerland in the

early 1960's.

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DooId: 32203846

Page

19

---

## Page 20

TOP SCRET

- 14 -

General

Mr. Ostom states categorically that the Office of Security has never to his

knowledge:

- conducted any audio surveillance, telephone taps, physical surveillance

or personal investigation of any member of congress or public officiali

- maintained any file for political or other inproper purpose of anv such

congressmen or public official;

- pulled any file for examination for purpose of checking up on anv such

member of Conress or public official.

Mr. Osborn states that he does not recall any instance during his career with

the CIA to which any particular activity of the Agency was examined in the

specific light of Section 403 of the National Security Act of 1947; i.e., he

dona not recall any assessment of a proposed or ongoing activity from the

st apoint of whether it was improper as a "police", "law enforcement", or

"internal security" function.

Inpression

M. Osborn impresses the interviewei as being honest, intelligent, and dedicated

to the interests of the United States and its people. His memory appeared to be

in error in some details, but considering the wide range of the interview ard

the time period involved, coupled with the wide breadth on responsibilities and

the number of personnel under his supervision in the Office of Security, this

is to be expected.

There is one area in which the interviewer was doubtful concerning the complete

candor of Mr. Osborn. That wis the area of his knowledge conceming the

TOP SECRET

50955

DooId: 32203846

Page

20

---

## Page 21

tel. 11,1975

Astar

DON DIAN ANSARE TAGON MA 1Y22K

STATEMENT

tir. Vice-President, Governor Reagan, distinguished

members of this Comnission. I am here willingly at your

invitation; I shall answer all of your questions fully and

candidly.

My federal service has

extended over a 32 year period, 27

of those years were spent with the Central Intelligence Agency.

I am proud of my service with the C.I.!., and I am proud of the

thousands of dedicated men and women with whom I worked in the

C.I.A. I retired from the C.I.A. On December 31, 1974, after

having been on sick leave from March 8, 1974, until the date

of my retirement. My last ten years of active service with the

C.I.A. were spent as the Director of Security. I was responsible

to the Director C.I.A. and to other senior C.I.A. officials for

personnel security and for the security and protection of classified

information, data and installations, both in the United States and

abroad. During my tenure as Director of Security, I served

successively under Mr. John A. McCone, Admiral William Raborn,

Mr. Richard Helms, Mr. James R. Schlesinger and Mr. William F.

colby.

I am aware of allegations given recent prominence by the

news media that C.I.A. conducted improper activities in the

United States. Since my departure from active status in March,

1974, I have had no access to Agency files or records with which

to verify or refute such charges. I can assure the members of

this Commission my full cooperation but it is possible that my

recollection of dates and details may be imprecise or unclear

without access to particular files and records of the C.I.A.

To

HW 50955 DocId: 32203846 Page 21

19%

---

## Page 22

the best of my knowledge and belief, all. of the actions and

activities in which - participated, or which I rected ari

recorded and documented in C.I.A. files.

At all times, while servinõ as Director of Security I

acted with the knowledge and approval and at the instruction

of the Director of C.I.A., and in many, if not most instances,

with the knowledge and approval of other senior Agency officials

in the chain of command. I should like to emphasize that Security

in the Agency is a service and support function and its activities

are not self-generated. Among other services, the Office of

Security provided guidance and assistance to employees with

personal problems; it provided support to other Agency components

upon authorized request and performed tasks and special inquiri:

assigned to it by the Director of C.I.A. The Director of C.I.Ä.

was empowered and directed by the National Security Act of 1947

to "protect intelligence sources and methods". By virtue of and

extension of that authority, those actions and activities within

my purview were designed to prevent potential penetration of the

Agency by hostile intelligence services, afford protection to

the Agency's domestic installations and to determine the sources

of unauthorized disclosure of classified and sensitive intelligence

information to public media.

While I am not now privy to precise statistical data,

I believe the United States Government Agencies involved in

intelligence activities can document the fact that the number

of hostile foreign

intelligence representatives in our country

has increased significantly in the last ten years. One of

their prime targets is the United States Intelligence Community.

AW 50955 DocId: 32203846 Page 22

---

## Page 23

-3-

Any investigation and review of C.l.A., or any otherelement

of hat

community should be made within that context.

After many years of service in the security field, I

can

fully understand the extreme sense of frustration among

the United States Government officials regarding unauthorized

disclosure of classified information. It is devastating to

read the contents of a highly classified document disseminated

in the intelligence community and then a day or two later, to

read the same information ad literatum in the press. I believe

most firmly in freedom of the press, but I believe also that

there should be a sense of responsibility accompanying such

freedom; that sense of responsibility seems often tobe buried

or absent in the publication of classified information which

could endanger our national security.

I welcome the opportunity to appear before this Commission

and to assist it in acquiring facts relevant to its investigation.

In the course of developing such facts, I am hopeful the Commission

will look at the possible consequences of the Agency's failure to

act even if the Commission should find fault with individual

conclusions or judgments made by Agency officials.

I shall endeavor to answer all of your questions and I

shall put aside my citizen's schield against self-incrimination.

That decision is based on my desire to assist the Commission to

the full extent of my ability and for the equally cogent reason

that I do not believe thatany action I performed was unlawful

or in derogation of my duties to the United States Government.

ri

HOWARD J.

OSBORN

NH 50955 DocId: 32203846

Page 23

---

## Page 24

TOP SECRET

- 2 -

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32203846 Page 24

---

## Page 25

TOP SECRET

-5 -

TOP SECRET

1777 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 25

---

## Page 26

"SECRET

- 6 =

2.

TOP SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32203846

Page 26

---

