# 157-10011-10085

## Page 1

157-10011-10085]

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10085

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : UNKNOWN

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS

DATE : 07/09/70

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS

STETSON, SHIRLEY; WILSON, JOHN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

SSCI Box 292, Folder 12

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32203853

Page 1

Date: 10/06/93

Page: 1

ERI

---

## Page 2

SSCI Box #292, Folder 12

9 July 1970

SUBJECT: Meeting with DCS Headquartoss' Officers

Shi-ley STETSO, for at least ton yoars the hackhone of OCS/OSS and recently

reassigned to DCS/ashinginn, and Join !ILSOli, recently designated as

redlacement in

visited C3.50 on 9 July 1970 and were briefed

y CIA officer

CIA officer

and the writer fron

1100 :0 1200 hours. This was follwed by luncht l

¡could not accompany) 'and

discussions until 1315 hoirs.

2. The following highlights are made a matter of recood:

291-11-61

157-10011-10085

Number

Record

a. Reports from

are still beingreceives

by Dis but, as is the custom, they are being sent,

to/CIA

the CIA

officecenn aspa initially,

isxis rather than to CI/Si. It

is believed that

/

has bean absent for about tud

months and this may account for the fact that: CI/SO.

..has not been receiving the

material.

b. Upon the departure of STETSDil for lashinaton and of a CIA officer for

will assume responsibility for Case 52722.

Jhas just completed his

CT program and befnre that spent a "ear in DCS on the Soviet Block Desk where he

handled nuclear matters.

He is well-regarded.

Co John HILSIN

is

CT viro has spent two years in DCS Head quarters.

for 131

He previnus ly served as

He stems from

and

the lị:

replace rent in

opines that he could be slated for the job of

in five to ten years when

retires.

WILSON iS

tle dras na:

is tias

23

Э

-ated with ra.

he sens to save his greates: enthusiasm in discussia

Ho: true i: is that there is no such thing as a

Is i result of his your or tue of

NW 50955

AS

NO BALCTION FO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

MAR. 94

DocId: 3220385V

---

