# 157-10014-10080

## Page 1

157-10014-10030

Date :

08/06/95

Page :

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD

NUMBER

: 157-10014-10080

RECORDS SERIES

: HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 10-H-12

• ми ти чи

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

: HEDGEMAN, VICTOR

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

08/21/75

121

ASSASSINATIONS,

LUMUMBA

CONGO

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE

: TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

09/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Box

3

ма о

NW 50955

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

PooTd: 32423466

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

Vol: 3 of J

MATIOU

11. 7.

Unauthor.

to Crimina

Ohir Mniteà Statre Briate

ATION

bject

R881

Report of I'roceedinge

INVENTONIELA

0M 3/2/22

•_29

Hearing held before

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLICENCE ACFIVITIES

Thuraday, August 21, 1975

Washingtun, D. C

(Stenotype Tape and hante turned over

so the Comittee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

410 FIKST STRENT. &. B.

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(2021 644-8000

---

## Page 3

PRoRs 19186 707) 384

5I_ Massungion, 0 6 2000}

1

2

3

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20)

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

CONTENTS

(Witness:

Hedgman)

EXIIIDY™S

EXHIBIT

No. 1

No. 2

FOR IDENTIFICATION

2

97

---

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

HANBACK I ant

"rant (9174 107) 846-7001

2

TOP SECRET

STAFF INTERVIEW

• =

Thursday, August 21, 1975

1

#10 I MET 51+001.

" Mastongian, D.C.2000)

7

8

9

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

United States Sonate

Salect Committes to Study. Govarnmanta

Operations With Respect to

Intolligence Activitias,

Hashington, D. C

The Connittee mot, pursuant to notice, at 10:05 o'clock

a,I., In Room 608, The Carroll Arma.

Staff: Burton Wides, Frederick Baron and Rhott Dawson,

Professional Staff Members.

--=

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

"ano (AN ao 407) 3787001

910 F99

209949.

TOP SECRET

2

3

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

1÷

15

16

1}

.=

19

21.

21

22

2: |

24

25

IROSEERINGS

Mr. Baron. Would you state your name and address for

the record, please?

MI. Madgman, My name is Victor 5. liedaman, I can bo

reached at all times at the Central Intellinence Agency.

Mr. Baron. And Mr. Hedgman, isn't it true that Victor s.

Hedgman is actually an alias and that wa have agreed that you

will testify hare today undor allas?

Mr. Hedgman. That's correct.

Mr. Daron. And len't it further true that we have made

arrangemants with you that your true identity will be recorded

on a statement regarding tastimony in allas which will be

permanently on file at the Contral Intolligance Agency for

verification purposas?

Mr. lladgman. That's correct. I belleve that this, that

would lika to add that I have

asked that this be done for

my

own protaction, protection, physical protection, actually.

Mr. Baron. And you understand that we will rotain a

sanitized copy of this form to attach to your transcript as

• Exhibit 1?

Mr. lodgman. I do.

Mr. Baron. All right.

Then lat us introduce this atatement which you have

signed as Exhibit 1.

(The document referred

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

pront (9486 707) 346-6000

S. K. Maampion, D.C. 1000)

#10 $ 0091

TOP SECRET

3

to was marked Hedgman

Exhiblt No. 1 for

idantification.)

9

10

12

14

5

1

17

18

19

20

21

2'2

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

sane (7180 207) 340

•due

210 8 1011

E., Marminaton, D.6. 1000)

2

3

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

1G

17

1k

19

20 1

22

2:3

2,4

25

TOP SECRET

Mr. Daron. Lut me ask you to varily the fact that that

1s your trus signature?

Mr. liodgman. That la my true signature.

Mr. Baron. Thank you.

Off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

MI. Baron. Mr. ledgman, ara you aware that you have a

Ilght to counsal beforo this committea?

Mr. Hedgman. Yes, I am. But. I shall ask for 1t 1f I lenl

the need.

Mr. Raron. All right.

Are you voluntarily appaaring hare today without counsal?

Mr. lledgman. I am.

Me. Baron.

And you are aware that at any point. during

the questioning you may cease answering the queations and

request to consult with counsel?

MI. ladgman. I am.

Mr. Baron. Are you also aware that all of your constitu-

tional righta are intact hare today, Including your fifth

Amendment righes to allence?

Mr. lodgman.

i am.

Mr. Baron. Although you are not under oath hare today.

are you awara that the Committoo Intands to ask you to awear

to the truth of your testimony hure as soon as possible?

Mr, ladgman. I am aware of that, and for the racord would

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

for (free 7931326-8009

*Paul

51+68

Sl., reactomoron, D6.7000)

2

5

6

7

9

10

11

1:

14

15

16

1'!

14

19

20

21

22.

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

5

like to make the point that I am going on recollection of events

which occurred nearly fifteen years ago, nome flitoen years,

some slightly more, some slightly less.

so therafore, I will

make ovary effort, but again, I am stressing this fact that i

have not had an opportunity to rafresh my memory by reading old

filos or anything of the sort.

Mr. Baron. That la completely understandable.

Mr. Hodgman. I Just want this -I am making this point

for the Committos members. I have already mado it to you

yesterday.

Mr. Baron. And it la understandablo that we are asking

you to discuss events that took place almost fifteen years ayo,

but it is your intention to give us the truth as far as you can

recall it?

Mr. Hedgman. It is my full Intention to give the truth.

Mr. Baron.

Thank you.

li

Mr. Wides. MI. Hodgman, would you please brlafly give

us a doscription of your cardor with the Agency, and that can

be by basically divialone or type of job in a vary briel

summary.

MI. Hedgman. I bagan, was recruited to sorvo, as what

1g ratorred to as a non-official cover agent, and I was a

contract as opposed to a atalt officar. That was changed

shortly aftarwards. I think a faw months lator I was mada a

staff officer but remained on official cover for the first severyl

TOP SI:CRET

---

## Page 9

80x390 t9:96 702) 34

tt.

37+499

3.X., MorAmpion, D.6 20003

1

2

TOP SECRET

Years of my time, working abroad. I returned to Washinaton

where I then bacame ovart in the sanse of I worked in the

offices and was no longer

I sarved as what is known as a case officor in the European

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13,

14

16

18

19

20

21

22.

24

24

25

Mr. Baron. About what time parlod would you say?

MI, liedgman. It was '53 to early '57. Farly 167 untll

the mid-60's I survod in Europe working primarily on Sovlat

oparations.

Mr. Dawson. I think you might have misspoken. You sald

m1d-60'8, oarly '57 to mid-60'8. Did you mean 19608

Mr. lodgman. Mid-1960, yos, I would correct that. From

July 6 on until -I can't remember whather it was June or

July of 1963 I sarved as Chief of Station in then Leopoldville.

now Xiorahasa, Zaire. I was Chiaf of Station, I than returned

to Washington in the early fall, the axact dates I don't rocall,

of 1963, and I was what 18 known as a Branch Chlaf. I was

responsible for the castarn half of Africa from 1963 to June

of 1965.

27,11

June of '65 till June of '67, I wasde

Bention:

I raturned to Washington where I became Branch Chief

again for the Southeast Asian area for a very brief time. In

essenca 1t was to prepare me for my noxt

assignment which was

the Chief of Station, Vientiane, Laos.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

• 1AU81

4000

410 Port 511741,5.8, Mask,9917, 06.1000)

1

?.

3

6

8

10

1]

12

13

14

15

16

1'

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

7

Upon completion of that assignment

Mr. Baron. You began that assignment in '673

Mr. Hedgman. No. I began the Southeast Branch Chief job

in '67. I bagan the COs job in the summer of '68, and I laft

thate in the summer of '70.

As you know from earlier, 1ll-health playad a role in

unfortunately forcing me to laave.

I then saturnad to Washington whare I became Deputy Chlet

of the African Division, January, 1971 until December, 1971, at

which timo I became Chief of the Division and ramalned Chia!

until I rotired.

MI. Baron. Untll December of 172, would that have been?

MI. ledgman. No, Decembar of '71.

МІ. ВагОП.

No.

Mr. Wides..

No.

Mr. lledgman.

Then I retired 28th of June, 1974.

Mr. Widos. You were first approached to go to the Conqo

as Station Chief for the Congo and othar nearby countrios in

June of 19607

MI. Hedgman. No. It was quite some time before that.

SOIry, I can't remember specifically whether it was four

montha, five months. Actually, thay talked to me about 1t as

much as a year

MI. Wides. And you went out -

MI. lodgman. Not a year. Maybe seven or sight or nine

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

nona | Arts 2071 J4

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

18

19

20

21

22

23

21

25

the -

1105-499511401, S.R., 5919199907, D.C.2000)

1

2

3

4

5

6

TOP SECRET

months. I don't rumember. I was in Washington. My father was,

we thought, dying at the time, and I had flown home to be with

him.

8

9

10

MI. Wides. And you want thare on June 10th or 11th?

MI. Hedgman. I'm SOrry -

Mr. Wides. Approximately?

Mr. lledgman. It was alther the loth of the lith that i

firat arrived.

Mr. Wides. The beginning of the sacond weak in June?

Mr. ladgman. Of July.

Mr. Widas. Of July, I'm aorry.

And that was shortly after the Congolese Independence from

MI. Hedgman. The indopendence was on the J0ch of June

and I was, had bean given vacation time, which I got in one

day before I arrived, but they called ma, I was taking some

vacation in Europe on the way down and they phoned me, traced

mes down, and said got down there, the mutiny

had taken place

and the place was coming apart.

Mr. Hidas. Prior to your leaving, and in connection with

your preparationa and briefings and discussions at Headquarters,

had there bean any discussion at all with you or that you were

aware of ragarding the possible assassination of Patrice

Lumumba?

Mr. lodgman. Absolutely none. I can say that that is

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

$

S. E.,. Migrangior, D.C.20003

1

2.

3

7

9

10

1]

12

13

1÷

15

16

17

19

2U

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

9

absoluta sureness of recollaction.

Mr. Widos. And then you had beon thare a short while, i

take it, and in about the last week of July, whon Patrico

Lumumba and othars from the Congo came to the United States, I

ballave around the 26th of July, am I corract, that both you and i

the Ambassador returned to America?

Mr. lodgman. That's corract.

Mr. Wides. And during your return here, In any discussions

you had with officials at ciA or other governmant officiale.

did you have any discusaions or learn of any diacussions

regarding the possiblo assassination of Patrico Lumumba?

MI. liedgman. No, air, I did not.

Mr Hidas. And than you raturned to the congo?

Mr. Hodgmen, Yes.

I bellave we raturned on the ath of

August, If memory serves me.

Mr. Wides. Now, as a very brief background for the

next sortes of questions, is it correct that by early septenher,

that 1s by the 5ch of 6th, Patrice Lumumba had boen dismissed

as Premier and the U.S. had already bacome serlously concerned

about the beginning of soviet assistance or involvement in the

Congo and the possibility of soviet Influence in tha Congo?

Mr. Hedgman. I bolieve thoso dates are corroct of the

5th or 6th. It could conceivably be the 7th. Certainly lona

buforo that timo, those of us Interested in the political

altuation thare; that 18, the Ambassador, membars of the Political

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

• ¡AMAs 202:

?

&.

Mashingtan. D6 =0001

1

2

3

4

5

6

?

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

10

Saction, mygelf, wore graatly concarned about what appaared

to ba a soviat effort to take ovar the Congo.

Mr. Wides. And because of conflict between - among, I

quass, la the appropriate word - because of conflict, or

potential conflict, among the contral government under

Presidant Kasavubu and others as one faction, Patrico Lumumba

and his followers as a second laction, and MI. Tahombo and

his tollwara as a third -

Mr. lledgman. And Gizanga an a fourth.

Mr. Widas. Giranga, I take it ho was somahat within

Lumumba's camp?

Mr. ledgman. Yus. I'm sorry, I should not have

interrupted.

Mo Wides. In any event, there was the potential of

Imminent fratricidal war?

Mr. ledgman. Tshombe had already, declared the Katanga

to bo an independent state of katange on the 11th of July, 1f

memory sarves me.

Mo. Wides. Is li also corract chat Mr. Lumumba was tha

•person of thosa thres leaders, of chose three factions, whose

potential activities concerned the United Statas the most at

that point, particularly with ragard to the possibility of

Communist influance In the Congo?

MI. lludgman, Ara wa referring to the september parlod

now, late lugust, September?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 14

41 C

57+00%

marantion, DE

1000f

TOP SECRET

11

ongo: 9200 2021 524-4000

1

Mr. Hidas. Yes, yas.

?.

Mr. lodgman. I would say, but there was another -- there

was also - there was also great concern about the Tahombe

succession, which we did not racognize.

Mr Wides. Right. Right.

In early Septembar, did you recalve a message from llead-

quartors indicating that you would, on a special restricted

channel indieating it was for your ayes only at the station, and

talling you that a massenger whom you would rocognize rould he

10

arriving with a mission for you?

11

MI. lodgman. I bollavo, yes, I recalved such a massage.

1?

MI. Wides. When,. would you please state -

13

Mr, lodgman. And I beliave that was the general thrust

14

of the wording. I cannot, at this time, afflem with abaolute

15

cortainty that that was exactly 1t, but that is my recollection.

16

Mr. Wides. When would be the best date that you would

1'71

best be placing that time that you could give us?

1B

Mr. Hedgman, I balieve it would have been around the

19

beginning of Saptambar, but I cannot pin it down more than

20

within a wook or ten days.

21

Mr. Widas. About how long before the mussengor arrived

22

Hould you say the cable came, lf you can rocall?

23

Mr. ladyman. I cannot recall definitively, I would quess,

24

and I would just quass, a faw days.

25

Mr. Wides, And is it accurate that the thrust of the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

€108.798 57+

S. L., Marriagion. D.C.20003

1

2

6

9

10

11

12

17

14

15

1G

17

1 5

20

1

.22

24

24

25

TOP SECRET

12

Drone (Auat 797) 341-8005

cable, you cannot recall particular words, was that a messenger

whom you would recogniza would be coming to give you a mianion

to carry out?

Mi. ledgman. As I undarstood it, he was coming with

Instructions. I did not know what type, sort of instructions.

Mr. Wides. Yes.

Mr. Maron. Can you state in your own words just exactly

what the gist of that cable was?

MI. lladgman. I am

not sure that it will be exact or

even close, but it 1a my -- 1 am going agaln, and I stress this

time now on recolluction, and it 10 not a sure thing, but my

rocollection was that the cable advised me that a parson whom

I would know to be or recoanize as an officar of the Agency,

and I am not sure that it said as an officer of the Agency,

somoone who I would have rocognized would arrive with instruc-

tions for me.

Mr. Wides, Did the cable rofer in any way to bumumba

that you can recall, that would involva the Lumumba problam or -

Mr. llodgman. I think, it is my recollaction that de did

not safer to Lumumba in any way.

HI. Hidas. And with regard -

Mr. Hodgman. Elther directly or hint by indirection.

MI. Wides. With ragard to the cables for general

procedural aspects, is it corract that it bore a special

Iaference or slug, I beliave is the term?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

Paara (Auda 202)

LAI

.

110 4045 571981,5.8., Mostand: 01, D.C.:000)

TOP SECRET

13

Mr. lledgman. I think, I am guassing about that. I think

2

it probably did, bacause that would have been a normal way to

3

Indicate the special handling. I ballavo the message also was

marked for my eyes only -

5

Mr. Wides. It would not have been marked --

6

Mr. Hodgman. - and contained instructions that i was not!

7

I to diacuas the messago with anyone.

Mr. Baron. And that you ware to destroy the messago?

9

Mr. Hedgman. Not at that time.

• 10

Mr. Wides. Did It Indicate that any commundcatione that

11

you sont thereafter to the lloadquarters in connection with the

12

imponding visit were to be givan the same slug or --

13

Mr. lledgman.

I am assuminy that it probably did, but !

14

cannot be 100 percent certain. I dont recall sending a message

15

until after I mat the gentlaman concerned.

16

Mr. Dawson. Maybe we could approach that a differant way.

17

You do recall whataver

message you received was not in the normal

tell couras of communications with the Agency?

19

Mr. Hedgman. Well, It came through Agancy communications

211

channals, but it =- it was marked Fyes Only, for'me.

21

Mr. Dawson, That's not unusual, necessarily?

22

MI. ledgman. At that time it was more unusual than it is

23

today, I would say.

24

Mr. Widas. Was it marked RYBAT, do you know?

25

Mr, lodgman. I'm sorry, I don't recall.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

гото (1202807)

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1':

16

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

14

MI. Wides. But RYBAT usually involved a fairly wide

dissamination, or at least diasamination to others in the

Agency.

MI. lledgman. Yes.

Ms. Wides. And when you say, Eyes Only, yourself, this

would, of course, include also the communicator who would have

ancrypted it, necassarily?

MI. ledgman. One communicator in Wanhinaton and one in -

Mr. Wides. Well, saturn --

Mr. ladgman, -- In Kionahasa or Leopoldvillo at that

time.

$106,019

5t1971

Mastengs

0n. D6.20008

2

Mr. Wides.

We will return in a moment to how you

dispatched communications back.

Now, at some point shortly therealtar, someone did

arIlvs from Washington whom you later datermined was the

massenger referred to in the cable, is that correct?

Mi. Hedgman. That's correct.

MI. Wides. And In terms of placing that visit, la 1t

correct that you, your bast ballad is it was in the sacond wook

.& Saptember or thereabouts?

Mr. lodgman. I would say thereabouts, but again, I have

trind to chink, triad to pin down a date on this, and I cannot,

s15.

Mr. Wides. But you placo it in terms of --

Mr. ledgman. I place it in terms of an apartment which

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

Tors (9188 702) 525-4000

+ $

110 EM81

Sit, OAss,n8109, D.C 3000)

2

3

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1:

1k:

19

20

22

21

25

TOP SECRET

15

I rented, and I bollave that I rented that apartmant in lalrly

sarly Saptember.

Mr. Hides. And it was not too long aftar you had ranted

it that thia person came?

Mr. Hedgman, Yas, yes.

Could we hold on?

Mr. Wides..

Yes.

MI, llodgman. Yoah. Yoah. Okay, I was remenhering another

Imsot1ng in that apartment, and I was able to identify, pin down

the time of that meeting, ao -

Mr. Wides. Who was the messanger who arrived?

Mr. lladgman.

Mr. Widos.

And at that time, you knew who he was?

Mr. lodgman. I racognizod him as an officer of the

Agency.

MI. Wides. By name, or on-siro, or both?

Mr. Hedgman. On-sita.

M5. lildas. And by name or not?

Mr. llodgman. I do not recall whether I knew his name.

suspect I did, but I cannot reafflem that.

Mr. Widas. Did you know what office he worked in, or did

ho have to tell you that?

Mr. lladgman, I balleve that I knew, but this was not with

great cortaintly, that he vorked In the what was then called

TSD, Technical Sarvicas Division. I did not know what part of

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

TOP SECRET

16

trone 3 area 7021

1

2

3

4

5

TSD.

Mt. Hidas. Do you recall how he indicated to you that

ho was the parson raferred to in the cable we hava juat

discussed?

Mi. Hedgman. I cannot be absolutely certain, but i

bollave that he referrad to the fact that I had raceived a

massage and that he was the person concerned.

Mr. Hidas. And did you most him at the airport, or did

he

0 al

# 105=4151-054.

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

141

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

ME. lladgman. No.

Mr. Wides. What ware the clicumstancas under which you

first mut?

M5. ledgnan. It seans ridiculous, under the circumstances,

that I cannot pin this down.

(Pause)

Mr. Widos. Can we just firat go through your recollection!

of being with him?

Mr. lodgman. I don't romember whather he came to the

Embassy and asked to speak to ma, whother I mat him as he came

1

•out of tho Embassy, It is concolvable that I tould have beon

told date and time, place, to meet him.

1I, lidas. You don't rocall ..

Mr. lledgman. I don't rocall.

MI. Wides. - making any arrangements for his boing

met?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 20

1108 oR 516008. 3.6.19534,59107, DE

20003

Than (ArtA 207) 3o6-d001

TOP SECRET

17

2

3

5

6

*7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

14

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

MI. Hedgman. No, I did not.

Mr. Wides. Do you rocall where he stayed while he was in

Laopoldville?

MI, ledgman. I ballevo ho stayad only one night, I am

not

sure of that, and I think ho stayed at the hotel.

MI. Hides, The main hotal in Leopoldvilla?

Mr. Hedgmen. At the Menaling (?), if he could get a room.

Rooms were hard to got. He could concalvably have stayed at

my apartment, 1l he stayed.

Mr. Hides. And your convarsations with him all took place

In the apartment that you had recently sented?

MI, Hadgman. It took place in my parsonal apartment which

I had recontly rented.

MI, Hides. Off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Wides. Could you toll us, starting from what you

remembor as tha darlioat or the first discussions you had, in

aubstanco what message

brought you and ths

ansuing conversation?

Mr, lledgman. It is my racolloction that he advised me.

or my instructions were, to

oliminate Lumumbo.

MI. Wides. By aliminate, do you mean assassinate?

Mr. Hedgman, Yos. I would day that was the, that was

sy understanding of the primary means. I don't think lt was

probably limitad to that, it there was some other way of dolno

TOP SICRET

---

## Page 21

TOP SECRET

18

1

2

1t.

Mi, Hidos.

of doing what?

MI. Hodgman. Of removing him from a position of political

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

1.5

14

15

16

11

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

threat.

MI. Wides.

Was there reallatically any way in which he

not a threat as long as ha ramalned alive in the Congo?

NI, ladgman. Oh, yes. I think 18 he had boon arrested

somathing lika that by the congolose officials, in my own

mind, that would have been, would have achieved it.

MI. Widas. And what did

Indicate with regard

to tho possibility of physically eliminating him?

Mr. ledgman. It was my understanding

that that was

probably expected of ma.

Mr. Wides:

Yes.

And what did he tell you with regard to how that might be

accomplished?

Mr. Hedgman.

Well, I think he - cortainly, as you are

aware, he brought some biological agents. I assume that that's

the correct word. But in any case, poisonous agents with him,

which ha passed to me.

As I recall, he brought them with him. That's not

absolutaly cartain, but quite probable, in my opinion, that he

had hand-carried them.

Mr. Baron.

Thase were lathal biological substances?

Mr. Hedgman. Yes. That was my understanding, as a

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

+000+00 49184145889

2.

4

6

8

9

10

11

12

14

15

16

1t:

19

20

21

22.

2'5

₴4

25

TOP SECRET

•19

non-oxpart. Howsver, in thinking it over, I ballove that 1--

thare was - this was not a sina qua non that I amploy this.

If there ware another method, another way, it would have bean

acceptable.

It was also my rocollaction, lat me just try and think for

a momont haro -- I can't remembor where I was going. ¿ had a

point I wanted to make.

Hol1, 1f 1t comes back, I will think of it.

Mr. Dawson. Would it help you to have her road back that

portion where you were just testllying?

Mr. lladgman. I don't think so.

Anyway, the biological aubstance, or specimens, what hava

you, I think It was up to my judgment, and if thare rare a

bettor way. cortainly, the point I now recall was in no way,

at I implamentod

these instructions, no way could it be traced

back to the United States. It had to be a way which could not

ba tracod back to the United States; althor to an American

the United States government.

MI. Wides. With rogard to the materials, you said lt ls

your best recollection that he brought them with him?

Mr. lodgman. I boliovo ha did.

Mr. Widas. Yos.

Do you recall having a discussion with him about the

materials as to how to use them and what traces they would leavel

and the lika?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

a10

Sirens, 5. 611949-98108, D.C.5000)

Prona (Area 208}

3

5

6

8

9

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

19

2:

22

21

24

25

TOP SECRET

20

MI. lodgman. I recollect discussing uses of them.

Mr. Wides, Do you recall having the - were thare also,

1n addition to the lothal agents themselves, related paraphana lia

such as a mask, or gloves, or a syringe?

MI. llodgman. It la my best recollection there ware rubbei

gloves, a mask and a syringo.

Mr. Wides.

Is it your recollection that these did not

arriva befora

came; that is, you did not have

matariala arsiving at the Station and yourself wondering what

they ware all about prior to

arrival?

Mr. lladgman. That 1s

correct. I do not believa thoy

came prior to

arrival.

Mr. Wides.

Do you rocall while you ware discussing this

with him that you had in front of you some of the paraphanalla

such as the syringe, of the mask, or the glovas, that they

were there with you?

Mr. Hedgman. I believe we did.

Mr. Wides, And he

waS

there for only one night?

Mr, ladgman. That's my recollection, but that in lar

IOm BUrG.

Mr. Wides. Or one or two nights?

Mr: lledgman. Yes. It's far from - I

-~ that's my

recollaction, but I would not wish to affirm that.

Mr. Wides. So alther he brought them with him or they

would have had to arrive assantially simultaneously with his

TOP SECRET

23

---

## Page 24

70nd 1A08s 2021 347-1006

PAUL

B. fu Massinator, DE 5990}

1

2

5

6

9

.10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

19

20

21

22

2:3

24

25

TOP SECRET

21

visit in order for you and him to have had them essentially

with you while he was discussing than, la that right?

MI. ladgman. Yes, I bollave, as:1 stated, that he brought

then with him or

MI. Wides. Or if they, if he did not, that they rould

havo arrived while he was there? In othar worda, are you mora

cartain that they were there at the time you had the discussions

with him'--

Mr. Hedgmen, Yas.

Mr. Wides, - than you are that he brought than, aven

though it is your bost ballet that he did?

MI. lledgman. I balleva ho brought them.

MI. Dawson. Do you recall his giving you any Instructlons

on their handling, the reason that you had rubber gloves?

Mr. Hedgman. Yas. I recollect that I told him that i

didn't know anything about tho handling of such things.

Mr. Dawson. And do you recall what he told you about

that?

Mr. lodgman. No, I don't really.

Mr. Dawson. Did he say to you that in order to handle

this subatance you had to have the rubber gloves on?

Mr. lodgman. That's an assumption

I have mado as a result

d my rocollection that there were rubber gloves. But I cannot

bo sure.

ME. Hidas, Let me go

back to the statement that you made

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

10+19166 7071 294-6000

1b-

1100087

Street

, M179a80n, D.6.1000)

1

2

5

7

8

9

10

11

12.

12

14

15

1:

i,

19

20

2?.

23

2-1

25

TOP SECRET

22

Chat there was more than one agant.

Do you sacall definitaly that there was more than one?

Mr. Hedgman. That 1s my recollection, yos, sir.

Mr. Widas. Now, do you mean by that there was more than

one dosaga, or more than one vial or pill of the same kind of

lothal agent, or that there were several difterent kinda?

Mr. Hedgman. I ballovo there waro two or more lathal

agonta, types of lethal agents.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall him montioning the word

botuliam at all? Does that Iing a bell?

Mr. lodgman. I cannot ba cartain of that.

MI. Widos. Do you rocall --

Mr. ladgman, I think that 1t l8 possible, but l cannot

bo cartain.

ME. WIdes. Doos 1t ring some sort of a bell?

Mr. lledgman. Botulism rings a ball, but I am not -I

know what It 1s, therefore it Is, thare Is an Agatha Christo

murder mystery based on it, or something like that.

Mí. Nidas. Do you rocall whether some o! them ware

poisons in the nature of cyanida and the like, of whether thay

were all reprasanted to ba biological agenty; that 18, a virus

or a deadly gorm of somo sort?

Mr. Hadgman. I ballave they ware biological agants.

1r. Widas. Do you recall whather any ware raforrar to as

a virus?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

5,931

1

2

5

6

7

9

• 10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1"

1t

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

23

Rone (A1D0 801) 344

Mr. Hedgman. No, I do not, air. I don't know. There

may have baen.

Me. Widos. Sinco there ware diffarent typos, I rould

infor or assume that thore was some discussion as to why you

might uas one of the other in the lirat attempt?

MI, Madgman. I ballavo

Mr. Widos. What can you recall of that?

Mr. lodgman. I ballove that I asked or radead the point.

and again, I cannot confirm this with absoluta certainty, but

I bollave I ralgod the point that poisons left traces in the

human body, which could be found on autopay, and that I ballavo

that I was assured that these agents, I'm goins to soler to them

as that bacause I don't know the correct term, terminology -

Mr. Wides. Lethal, thosa are lothal agants?

MI. Hedgman. Lathal agents, would ba normal traces found

in peopla that die of cortain disaases.

MI. Widos. And this would have been with regard to all

of than of only one of them?

Mr. llodgmar. That's why I hesitated on the botulian,

•bocauge that would fit, of course.

Mr. Widos, Was this assurance given in ronard to all of

them, or one in particular?

Mr. lodgman. I cannot be absolutely cartain of that. y

balieve all of them, but 1 --

Mr. Wides, Well, wouldn't you have asked which one you

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

+1275*

2

4

5

TOP SECRET

24

should usa, or whather there was any different among them in

terms of proference from the point of vlar of affectiveness or

sase of use, or would you have just bean laft essentially closine

your oyas and picking one? Houldn't you have had some diacus-

s10n?

7

9

10

11

12

Sires, 3.8., Mainineron, 06 11 00)

for (A180 7071 320-4000

14

15

16

1%

1t:

19

20

*')

22

2:3

24

25

Mr. Hedgman. I would think so. But I cannot - don't

balieve I can pin this down.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any discussion with

as to difforoncas in the mathod of administration, preferred

method of admintatration?

Mi. Hedgman. I remamber there was a rafarance to putting

one of them in possibly toothpaste which would be unad.

MI. Wides. How would that he accomplished, with a

syringe, or -

MI, lodgman. I don't remember. I think so.

Mr. Hides. Do you recall specifically that three was a

syringe as part of the equipment?

M5. ledgman. I belleve there was, but I sure wouldn't

a take my life on It. But if I said I bellove there was a

i. syringe, that's my racolloction.

Mr. Wides. Now, just to go back for a moment, you said

before that he sald that your instructions vero if possible to

aliminate Lumumba, and that you thought that one possible way

the way he was particularly addressing was in the sanse of

assassination?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

Tone l# +6 707) 585-4000

.

#10

S.E., Tossraeron, 0 6

2.

3

5

?

9

10

1)

12

13

14

25

16

1'

18

19

20

* 1

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

25

Mr. lladgman. That's correct.

Mr. Wides. I take it that once you started discussing

thase lethal agants, there was no doubt in your mind that the

kind of elimination ha was there particularly to discues was

k1l1ing Lumumba?

MI. Hadgman. Theis was no doubt in my mind that this was

one of the way, and probably what they thought was the only way

that would work. But as the Chial of Station, I still, aven

though a junior Chief of Station, I had a cortain amount of

Iraodom of choice, I falt, at the time.

In other words, particularly since the emphasis was that

it could not be traced back to the U.S. govornment or the

United States.

Mr. Wides, Did you

800 --

I'm sorry.

Mr. Baron.

The purposa of designiny a lechal amant that

loft the tracos of a normal diseasa rather than a poleon was

exactly that, wasn't 1t?

Mr, lledgman. Yas, I would assume ao.

Mr. Baron. To avoid =-

Mr. Hedgman. It Booms to me that was one of the points

that came out.

Mr. Baron. To avold attribution to the United States?

Mr. ladyman. To avoid attribution, really.

Mr. Wides, Did you suo any of the paraphonalia, do you

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 29

PROM 144+8 202) 294-800

1

2

3

5

6

?

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

- 1'7

18

19

20

22

24

24

25

TOP SECRET

26

rocall, that 18 apart from just a paokage that was never opanod,

did you

aver at that time, did you ma a mask or gloves?

Mr. Hedgman. It is my racollection that I did, but I

cannot be absolutoly cartain of that.

Mr. Baron. Was this a surgical gaure mask?

MI. Madgman. It Is my recollaction, i have that racollac-

tion, and yet I could not - I am baing asked to swear to this.

of course, and I swear that lt is my recollaction.

MI. Wides. Do you racall that the matarials were in liquli

form, in a vial or bottle, or --

Mr. ledgnan. I do not Incall, sir.

MI. Wides. But I assume, lf your best recollection is

there was discussion of a syringe, 'that prosumably it was in

liquid form?

Mr. ladgman. I would assume so.

MI. Wides, Or something that would ba turned into a

liquid.

Mr. Hedgman. I would assume so, but I honestly cannot

tall you what form they were in. i

Mr. Wides. And your best racollection was there were two

of three or more?

Mr. lodgman. Yes, two or threa.

MI. Hidus. Dld

indicate to you, was there

any rotorence to tha prior use

or attemptad use of these arents

for the samo purpose of assassination, to his knowledge, by the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

$10 5 09+ 510099

S.t., Taureapion. D.C.1000J

lA:-83308) 144-6000

1

2

3

4

5

9

10

11

1:

1'3

14

15

16

11

1&

20

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

27

Agency?

Mr. Hedgman.

To my recollaction, he did not ralar to any

pagt use or knowledge of such.

MI. Widos. Did he relar to any prospective or posalbla

use alsewhare in the world?

Mr. Hedgman. Not to my recollection, I don't belleva he

did. It would not have bean normal for him to diacuss that with

Mr. Wides. Do you recall, by any chance, the name of

Fidel Castro coming up In the course of thia?

Mr. ladgman. Almost certainly lt did not.

Mr. Wiras. Now, with ragard to the posalbility of other

means, first with ragard to the possibility of ochar maans of

k 111ing Lumumba, did you diacuss with him any othar ways of

arranging Lumumba's death other than using these lethal agents.

such as shooting, or

MI. Hodgman. I think I may woll have suggasted that as

a possibility. shooting.

Mr. Hides. Did you

discuss with him specific other ways

of trying to eliminate him

as a political threat, or ig It

simply your assumption that if you had found some other way,

that might have boon an alternative option for you?

Mr. Hedgman. Would

you rephrase that question, or repaat.

1t?

Me. Widos. YOu sald' that your undorstanding was that

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

1201 10ryl pudens

.

2

5

6

8

9

10

12

1.3

14

15

10

1'7

15

19

20

1

22

2:

25

TOP SECRET

28

your inatructiona ware to aliminate Lumumba, and that one way

of doing this, which was diacussed in conciate form, and which

you wore glvan the means for, was killing him or arranging hia

death, but that that was only one possibility.

Did you discuss, In fact, with

any other ways

of eliminating Lumumba, non-lethal ways?

MI. lodgman. I may woll -- non-lothal ways?

Mr. Wides. Yes.

MI. lodgman. I cannot recall with cartainty on that. It

Is my recollaction that he was, elther was or was vary shortly

theidafter under the protection of the United Mationa in tho

Prima Minister's combination residence and offica. Certainly

ho was thare after 14 September.

Mr. Baron, Just to clarly this, the means of -

MI. Hedgman. 1960.

Mr. Wides, Let him finish thes anawer. I don't know 1f

that 1s fully responsive.

What is your best recollection as to whether you did or

did not discuss any othar way of eliminating Lumumba other than

'assassinatión?

MI. llédgman. I cannot yive you assurance. I have

trisd to go back in my mind on that.

Mo. Widos. You can't recall one way or the othar?

Mr. Hodgman. I cannot. recall ond way or the other for

certainty, I know that it -- somewhere along the line in thare!

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

$

#105.081 Stre91. SE., N619,98109, DE 2000)

1

2

3

6

9

1??

14.

14

15

1€

17

19

20

21

22

23

25

H

TOP SECRET

29

I thought of shooting

an a posalbility, but whether I diacussed

it with

I am not sure.

Mr: Wides, Hall, I understand that 1s a possibility that.

you discussed other means of arranging his doath, or you may

have discussed other maang of arranging hia death --

Mr. lladgman. I may have.

Mr. Wides. = than use of agents, but earlier you sala

you considared your instruction to be sliminating him, and that

one posalbility was through his death, but there ware other

possibilitles. And I am asking you now whether you rocall

discusing any non-lathal ways to sliminate him

as a political

throat with

In connection with your Instructions?

Mr. Hadgman.

I cannot ho certain that I did, alr.

There obviously was the possibility that his Congolese political

enemies would gain control of him in

some manner, get him in

thair, under their control, in which case he would have been

neutralized.

M5. Hides, But In regard to your instructione to do what

you could to eliminate the threat, with sagard to action that

you would take as the Station Chief, l taka 1t all you discug-

Bad with

ware means of arranging his death from the

point of vlow of what you could do?

Mr. lladgman. I cannot affirm that.

Mr. Wides. But you don't recall discussin anything

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 33

pRons (D+6+ 702) 846.8007

210509: 511997-58-195910100. 06.2000)

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

1?

13

14

15

16

.1'1

1E

1'g

20

21

22.

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

30

MI. Hedgman. No.

Mr. Wides. Now, what was your flat reaction when

when it first. became clear to you what

was discussing with you in ragard to =

Off the record.

(Discusalon off the record. )

Mr. Wilos, Back on the record.

What was that last question?

(The Reporter read back the last question.)

MI. Widos. - afforts to kill Patrice Lumumba?

Mr. lodgman. I would say grest surprise. I don't know

whether shock would be the word. It's a little hard to recollect

ona's anotions, but it was

an emotional, an amotional reaction,

I think.

Mr. Kides. Did you raiso with him the quastion of

authorization of such instructions to you?

MI. lledgman. Yes, I did, That's my quite atrong recol-

lection, that I did.

MI. Hidas. What do you recall In asaence was what you

said to him?

Mr. lledgman. In assance, I think I must havo, aml andin

this is, I am quessing as to what my wording was, must. have

pointed out that this was not a common or usual Agency tactic,

and I indy have probably sald that I never hoard of it helna

done, which I had not, never in my training or previous work

TOP SECRET

in

---

## Page 34

HOM 19.00 2071

r.

Mas9,79:04, 0 6. 2000)

TOP SECRET

31

the Agancy had I over hoard any refarences to auch, in my,

rocollection at least, such mathods. And it la my recollection

3

I asked on whose authority those instructions vere issued.

4

Mr. Widas. And what did

reply?

Mr. Hadgman. It is my rscollaction that he identitied

the frasident, and I cannot - the President of the linited

7

Statas - and I cannot recall whether he said "the Proaldent,"

8

or whether he idantified him by name.

9

Mr. Wides. But it is your best rocollection that he said

10

sonothing more apocliic than highest authority, that 1s, the

11

Presidant, or the White House, or President Elsanhower?

12.

Mr. Hedgman.

I want to det this one right, becausa I

12

roalize it's important.

14

MI. Wides. Lat's start, excusa mo, lot's start with the

15

most basic question.

16

Is it your recollaction that he clearly told you lt was

111

1 n

an authority higher than the Director of the CIr?

Mr. ladgman. I'm not sure that ha put it that way:

19

I said, I bellove

15. Hides. But I don't mean that ho usad those words,

but is it cloar -

22.

Mr. Hedgman. That was my understanding, that it

2!.

Mr. Widos. That is was higher than the piractor?

2.5

MI. lledgman, Yes.

Mr. Widos. Can you recall whether ho said "the Prasident"

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 35

кота (B3*s 707)

30t-6000

TOP SECRET

32

or "presidont Elsanhower?"

Mr. lodgman. I cannot rocall whether he just said, whether

he sald "the President" or whether he said "president Eisenhow-

4

.!.

BIm,n0:00. 6 6 10001

Mr. Hidas. But it was

ond of those two, is your bast

6

recollection?

7

Mr. Hodgman. I would say almost cortainly, but not -

8

In other words, I am at ahout the second laval of affirmation

9

here.

10

Mr. Widas. If not that specillo -

11

Mr. Hadgman. It was my undorstanding it was the

12

President, yas.

13

Mr. Wides. And did he also, apart from what you would

14

have inferred would be impliad by that, did ho also say in any

15

way something that referrod to It being approved by the Director

16

of the Agency?

MI, lledgman. I have tried to go back in my mind on that,

17

1e l

and I think, I bellove-- but again now, this one, It's pretty

19

loose in my mind - it was something to the affoct that tho

20

President had instructed the Director.

Mr. Wides. Your unduratanding than was that thous

22.

inscructions wora Instructions coming to you from the offico

of the Prosident?

2",

Mr. Medgman, That's correct.

24

25

Mr. Wides, Or that he had instructed the Agency, and they

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

Arges (A108 707) 346.4004

33

1

2

3

5

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

11s

1'9

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

ware passed on to you?

Mr. lodgman. That's right.

Mr. Dawson.

You are not the least unclear whether of

not you came aware with a vary clear impression that the Presi-

dant's name had bean invoxed in some fashion?

Mr. Hodgman, Yos. I came -- cortainly that is my

racollection.

Mr. Dawson. You have no doubt about that?

Mr. Wides. At the time?

Mr. Badgman. At the time I cortalnly falt that I was

undor Instructions from the President, yon.

15. Wides. Al1 51ght.

MI. Dawson. You ware loss certaln as to whether or not

tho Director of Contral Intelligenco's name was invokod as

authority?

Mr. Hedgman. Bacauso the other one soamed higher, and --

Mr. Dawson. Okay.

Mr. Hedgman. And I think in my own mind I could not

imagine thie Agency taking such

action without clearing it with

the President.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall asking somethina to the effect.

of whard did this brilllant load come from, or who had such a

billiant idaa?

Mr. liedgman. I think I made a comment like that

yastarday, but I am not sure those were my words at all. I think

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

AMORA (A174 1931 394-400K

TOP SECRET

34

I was -- I was being a bit facetlous in that sense yesterday

when I said that, but, I mean, I think I aakad why, who.

MI. Widos. And your baat recollection then la he said in

affect, tho Prosident, that 1s, he said elthar the President or

President Eisenhowar has instructed or told the Diractor that

this is what la wantad?

Mr. ledgman. I think he aald told the Director. This 1ls

mean, aftar all, tha President would not pick up the phone

and dial

and say, hey, I've got a little job for

you.

Mr. Dawson. Though it may be an assumption on your

part

M$19.96104. D6 10001

3

5

7

8

9

10

1:

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

18

19

20

21

27.

2:

2:

25

Mi. lledgman. That's right. I am--yas.

Mr. Dawson. But you are cluar as far as the President

has told you to do this?

Mí. Hedgman. Gantlemen, after fifteen yoars I cannot be

100 percent cartain, but I hava always, since that date, had

the impression in my mind that these orders had come foom the

Preaident.

Mr, Wides. And your imprassion, your racollection is at

that time, after your discussion with

that you then,

at that time, had the very cloat impression that theid were

instructions from the President?

1r. Hedgman. Yes, sir.

Mr. Baron. In your mind, is lt more likaly that

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

1.0001

$10

5101: 84.

S.C., Machinoron. DE.2000)

2

3

G

9

10

11

1??

14

15

16

1'

TOP SECRET

35

usad the words "the Prosidant" or "President Eisenhover" than

It 19 that he used some auphemiam?

Is that cortect?

Mr. lodgman. I balleve that is so.

Mr. Widas, That is your bost recollection?

Mr. longman. That is my best racollection.

Mr. Wides. With rogard to what you underatood your

Instructions to bo, is it a falr summary to say that your

Instructions were to datarmine in what way you coul use these

agents, with the possibility that you might think of a botter

way in your mind, but that it you could use thase agenta to

assassinate Lunumbs in a way which would not Irplicate the

Unitod States, that you ware undor inatructions to do so?

Mr. Hedgman. I would qualify that slightly. I would

qualify it in that in operationa normally you never use greater

force or greater effort than ls necessary to accomplier the

purpose. I would think, and I think I thought at the time, that

1l there were some way that ha could be ramoved from a poattion

Is l of power and threat which we, most of us thought was a throat

ito the Unitad States by him, that that would hava boon satis

20

factory.

21

However, it was cloar that peonlo were thinking in terms

21:

23

of his physical removal by the equipment i was givan, the

12.1

agents, tho lethal agents which were given to mo.

25

Mr. Wides, Wall, ware you not inpressed with the fact

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

10000 3 0 10, Aurustra

2:0801 Strpet, 3.8.0

1

2.

TOP SECRET

36

that someone in the Agency had litarally arrived at your door-

stop with lathal means and indicated that the President had

Inatructed the Agency to direct Lumunba's removal, and that it

was in that connection

that he was arriving with these lethal

means?

6

MI. Hadgman. Oh, yes.

7

Mr. Widas. Well, I take 1t --

8

ME, ladyman, This was not a common occurrence.

Mr. Wides. I take it you thought you had authority to

10

usa than, and that had you done so the noxt day, or vary shortly

11

thereafterwards, that that was clearly withln the authority

that - wall, off the record.

(Discussion off the racord.)

13

Mr. Hides. Subsequent to your discussion with

did you seek confirmation of the instructions that

15

16

ho had given you by further communications with the Agency?

Mr. Hedgmas. In my recollection that I sent a massage.

!1:

1'

whether I identifled

nama or not, I do not racall.

" but that I asked for some form of confirmation that he was the

20

propor messenger and that his instructions wore -

Mr. Widas, Correct?

11•

12%

MI. lledgman.

Here corruct.

MI. Widos, Did you recolva a tosponse to that mesgago?

Mr. lodgman. I - before I continue, I would say that

24

this is the best of my tacollection that I sent such a mesgane.

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

+05(408 +050) 406000

2

3

4

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

37

Mr. Widos. Yas. Hall, excuse mo, did you --

MI, lodgman. I cannot, I cannot affirm absolutely and

positivaly, but I have a recollaction that I sent such a

massage.

Mr. Widas.

no you have a fairly strong recollection that

altar speaking to

bocausa lt involved such a momentous

lasue, that you folt in nood of some further guidance or

confirmation?

Mr. lodgman. Yes. I was worried about 1t.

Mr. Widas. And the most likaly course for you to have

taken would have boon to seok confirmation by cable? I take

it you don't recall any raquest in a faca to face axchange with

any Agency person for confirmation?

MI. lledgman.

That's correct. Thore was no face to face.

other than my discussions with

MI. Hides. And your recollection, although you are not

certain, is you sent a cable secking confirmation?

Mr. Hedgman. That's correct.

MI. Wides. Do you have a recollection of racelvina a

response to that?

M5. ledgman. Again, a racollaction, but I bolleve I

rocsived a reply which i Interpratted to mean yas, that ho was

the messenger and his Instructions were, were logal Inntructions

In the sense of baing . legal, of course, would not be a

correct ..

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

THAN (A-88 20211646000

]

2

3

5

7

10

11

1:

1÷

15

16

1109.061 Strol. S.f,1059.79/07,D.C.10003

18

19

20

 1

22

2:,

2.4

25

TOP SECRET

38

Mr. Wides. Duly authorized?

Mr. Hadgmen. Duly authorized.

Mr. Wides. Now, after you recolved them, at least after

you received that confirmation, 1g it correct that you felt you

had the authority thenceforth to use these lethal agants to

assassinata Lumumba and that had you done so any time thareafter

Ist would have been within the authordty of your instructions?

Mr. lodgman. I think so, but it is possibla, and I cannot

I have thought about this a good doal last night. It in possi

ble that the instructions may have baan that I was to explore

thesa whore avallable, but I was to got final confirmation

befora - I cannot be 100 parcent sure.

Mr. Wides. Are you raising that as a possibility without

any racollection of that at all? Is that what you are doing

Iin regard to this last

statemant?

Mr. Hedgman. Yes, I suppòss that's it. I don'e have a

l firm recollection.

==

MI, Hides, You don't have any?

MI. lodgman. I have tried to determine in my own mind

il whethor I had an absolute free hand at that time.

MI. Wides, Woll, lot's take

it one stap at a time.

Do you have any recollection of any

mossadd during

discusalon with you or thereafter in affact putting

hold, having a sort of a go, no-go, hold on your use of the

polsons? Do you have any racollection of that?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 42

Done (919a 1071 310

7006

manò

ass.mo:on. D.6 5000)

1

2

3

4

5

6

?

9

10

11

12

14

15

16

183

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

39

ME. ladgman, I do not, but may I add there, I know that

I sent aeveral messagos about potential access.

Mr. Wides. Yos.

Mr. Hedgman. Which makes me think -

Mr. Baron. Potontial access to Lumumba?

MI. Hedgman. Yas, which makes me think I was perhaps

aupposed to clear it.

Mx. Wides. Could thoss also simply have seen progress

reports, aven if there was no hold?

Mr. ledgman. That's possible, yes.

Mr. Wides. And do you have a recollection, although not

clear ons, that in fact you thought it was up to you at that

point and that you could go, if you thought the situation was

correct?

Mr, ledgman. If I had to decide botween those tuo things.

I think I probably thought 1 had it, but I cannot absolutaly

confirm that, sir.

Mr. Wides. I undarstand that, but you have some recollec

tion that you thought you had It, and you have no recollection

los thinking there was a hold? You simply cannot be, you art

not absulutoly certain that you thought you had a go ahead,

Is that a falo summary of your tastimony?

Mr. Hedgman. Yos, I think that would be cortact.

Mr. Wides. Now, do you recall, and l am coming back to

the massague in a momant, do you rocall sometime in the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

owns (8185 303) 182-8009

.

masterpion, D.€ 2000)

2

3

4

5

6

B

10

11

12

13

14K

15

16

1%

18

12

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

40

begianing of October, when a lMe. Justin O'Donnall arrived de

the statlon?

Mr. Hodgman. I don't racall the time, but lt was perhaps,

it would have bean about that time.

MI, Wides. Was it several weaks after

arrival?

MI. lodgman.

I cannot. put a timeframe within wooks on it.

I would have quassed yas.

Mr. Wides.

Was It clearly siter

Mr. Hergman.

Yes.

MI. Wides. I bolieve you indicated to us

in preliminary

discussions that you had some intimation or anticipation that

his arrival -- strike that.

An I correct that you had some knowladge he was going to

arrive baforo he appeared; that is, by name you know

that he

was coming to the Station bafore he actually physically got

there?

Mr. Hodgman. I bullevo that is correct.

MI. Wides, And I bollave you indicated yesterday in

preliminary discusgions with us that in anticipating his

arrival, you had some impression that ha was to aid in the

ramoval or the elimination of Lumumba, 1s that corruct?

Mr: lodgman. I don't ballave - I may havo misstater

mysalf if I said that yotorday. I think it was more whan he

arrived that I was advised of that.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

Front (Ares 707)

зах

3

PAUS

tape

110 8 0051

2a

6

7

9

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

1'?

1H

159

20

21

28.

2%

24

25

TOP SECRET

41

Mr. Hidas. I 809.

Mr. lladgman. There may have bean a massago in that

channel indicating that he was arriving, which would have made

me think that he was related with it. I cannot be certain.

Ms. Hidas. Do you recall indicating to us yastarday

that when ho arrived initlally one thought you had was that

parhaps you were going to be replaced as statlon Chief, in your

first job as Station Chief, because you had been dragging your

lest, or not acting expaditiously enough on Lumumba?

Mr. ledgnan. I recall saying that yesterday.

Mr. Widos. What 19 your recollaction today?

Mr. Hedgman. Put it -- may I go off the rocord a moment?

MI. Widos. Yos.

(Discussion off the record.)

MI. Hides.

Lot's go back on the record.

Let me phrase the question this way, Mr. Hedgman:

when

Mr. O'Donnell arrived, I take it as a somewhat junior station

Chlaf, and in your flrst job as a Station Chlef, that you

:

considerad whether there was dissatisfaction with your handling i

Hof the job, or the nood for more exporienced personnel there,

is that correct?

Mr. Hedgman. I think that 19 possibly true.

Mr. Wides. Now, do you recall whether one of the

thoughts that want through your mind was that parhaps tha

Headquarters was, the Agoncy was dissatisflad with foot-draguino

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 45

+00+-+75 1202007951 dutrad

GET 16

1000÷

30-H913197

1

2

3

4

5

7

10

1]

12

13

14

15

16

17

14

19

20

21

22:

24

2.4

25

TOP SECRET

42

or the lack of action on your part in implementina

instructions? Was that one of the thoughts that went through

your mind as fat as you can recall?

Mr. Hedgman. I cannot say that with certainty now. It

1s very poasible.

Mr. Widos. Do you have any rocollection that that want

through your mind aven if you can't be cartaln?

Mr. lodgman. To rapeat, that he -

Mr. Wides. That you thought

MI. ledgman. That I thought that they were dissatlafled

with my handling of that?

MI. Wires. Bocause you had not yet eliminated Lumumba

or taken further stapo to do go?

Mr. Hedgman.

I just can't, I just would like to back off

that one because I cannot be cortaln. I knew that obviously

they had sent a man who had much more experiance than I, and

yet it was clear that ho was working. for me, bacause & way

not reliovad as Chief of Station. They would never have sent

him there under me and then switched the positions.

1r. Widos, Prior to his coming -- to return

now to the

period when you sent the confirmation, request for conflamation

do you racall slugging it back through a particular channal?

Mr. ledgman. There was some apacial channal, and i --

becauso it was handlad differently than any other normal

massage. For

example, it was not put on a regular cable form,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

man 49-90 2071 526-4000

r..

• 1401p, 98:04. D.6. 1000)

410

1

9

10

11

1?.

1%

15

1 e

1:

1*:

19

81.

2!

22

8."

25

TOP SECRET

43

which, you know, you have saveral copies for your various

Ellas. And it was my recollection that I personally carried

the message to the communicator to encrypt, and that was worded

In a double-talk way that even the communicator would not

necassarily know what it was about.

Mr. Wides. If your communication to the leadquarters and

thair communication back ware in somewhat amblquous terma,

particularly your question, such as la the person, is this

parson the messanger, and are his instructions accurate, and

If the toply was essentlally yes to both questiona, how would

that have assured you that his invocation of Prosidentlal

authority was accurate, or oven his invocation of the authority

of the Director was accurate without your indleating in your

cable in some way what the Instructions were?

Mr. ledgman, I suppose that - I doubt that I would have

Indicated in the cable the authority cited because of the

nature of the instructions.

Perhaps I was

much

more naive then

than many of us aro now, but I assumed when I racelved instruc-

tions that they came, they were duly authorizad Inatructlong.

It was clear that the man - I had recalved the message

that someone was going to contact me with Instructlong, which

was most unusual. I mean, why weren't they sant in writing,

in other worda, by cable or by dispatch. And It arrived, and

1t arrlved, a man whom I recognired as an ACancy officor, and

ho gave me instructions. I went back through this very special

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 47

+418+ 707) 344-40701

:000%

TOP SECRET

4 4

1

2

6

9

10

11

channle and gaid, you know, I don't remembar how I worded it

It was a doubletalk thing, but I came away, I was convinced that

yes, it was right.

Now, there

is no way I could know or be absolutely certain;

1l those Instructions amanated from the President, but 1, 1 tooki

this parhaps as an act of faith.

Mr. Wides.

I understand.

When you wore discussing with

during his stay

of a day, perhapa one or two days, what else can you racall was

discusaed by the two of you?

Mr. Hedgman. I don't havo a recollectlon, ¿ probably

wanted to know about whore my varlous irlands vare

anri what was

happening and the sort of gossip that goes around.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any diacussion as to whether

Mr. Bissoll was witting of this particular mission or Instrue-

tion?

14

15

16

1'1

19

20

21

2::

2%

24

25

Mr. ledgman. I cannot be certain of that. & think 1

would have assumed.

Mr. Wides. Not baing certain, what is your boat recollac-

tion aa to whether his name came up in ragard to the instructiona?

Mr. ludgman. I have no recollection whather hia nama

came up. Cartainly I would have assumed that ha would have

been involved, and it is entiroly posalble that his name didn't

come up.

15. Wides. Do you recall any other names coming up besideb

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 48

$96. 019-9s 707) 101

7722%

Tello: +801-5670008

]

2

5

7

10

11

12

1'

15

16

1'1

=-

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

45

the reference to the White louas and possibly the axproas

rafarance to the Diractor, possibly?

ME. lodgman, I don't ballove so.

Mr. Wides. Do you socall Mr. Iweedy's name cominy ps

Mr. ladgman. No, I do not. But it la entirely posalble

that it did, in that he was my direct chiet.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any other aspocte of the

discussion, whethor rolated to the mission or not, in regard

to

what his job was, what ho was doing at that time, your problema

1n tha Congo, or MI. Lumumba's particular threat?

Mr. lodgman. I probably discussed with him what I saw to

be a very severa threat, serlous threat, I should say, to

U.s. position in Africa. It was my bellet that the soviets dire

mking a major affort to socure a bridgehoad, to take over one

of the two or three largest, and potentially richast countries

In Africa.

#r. Wides. Do you recall anything regarding any discussich

Iegarding access that you then had?

Now, I am referring to your

discussions with

in the way of agonts you migh

•use who might be able to prevent attribution to American and

80

forth?

Mr. lodgman, I havo a recollaction, I hava a recollaction

that I citod one agent's name, or perhaps not namo, but

described him as a person who would have accass.

Mr. Wides,

To bumumbs directly?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 49

ange 990008021886

*AUS

F.

, toast, m8:09, D.€ 5000)

1

2

3

4

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

It:

19

20

41

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

46

Mr. Hodgman. To probably havo accesa to - certainly

would have accoss to Lumumba, and might be able to use such

agents.

Mr. Widas. Was there any discussion of instructing this

agant how one would go about instructing the agent to use the

lethal agents botween yoursell andl

Mr. lladgman. Probably, but I cannot be sure of that.

bacause I would - I know I did not know how to use tham, so

I must havo asked how to use them.

Mr. Widas. Do you Iscall subsequent to your - let me

go back.

How would you charscterize, of if you can ramember the

substance of what you sold, what was your response to

having been given these instructions, having been taken

somewhat aback, according to your testimony, having asked about

authority and having been assured that it came from the thite

louse, what was the assence of the rasponds that you gave

that he would have brought back to leadquarters himself?

Mr. liedgman. I think that it was that I would explore.

and again I am saying I think, that I would explore thie.

Mr. Wides, Did you give him any Indication that you would

not carry out the instructions?

Mr. liedgman. No, I don't belluve I sald that. Mut 1

bolievo I pointed out that it was -- it would be extremely

difficult to carry out these instructions, meetiny the criteria

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 50

toss (91982021564-480

= =

2106,9

SE. Pasturoton. D6 1000)

TOP SECRET

47

1

that wo could no way be traced back to the United Statas.

2

Mi. Wides. Hould it be a fair summary that he left the

3

meeting - wall, you can't. tostity for him - that it would

havo bean roasonable for him to laave the meeting with tha

5

impression that you would, if possible, carry out those

instructions?

7

Mr. lodgman. I couldn't speculate as to whother he thought

8

I would or not.

9

Mr. Hidas. But would that have boon a talr impression

10

for him to take away from your comments?

11

Mr. lodgman. I think it would bo a fair impreasion that

12

he would take away the thought that I was goinn to look into

13

it and try and figuro if thare was a way, but I do remember --

14

I shouldn't say remember -- I bellavo I stressed the dirticulty

15

of trying to carry out such

an operation.

16

Mr. Wides. But since he had given you inatructions that

17

the President wanted this, would lt have been fair for him to

18

"carry away from your conversation the understanding that if

19

you thought it could be done, it you found a way, that it would

20

then go forward, you would than go forward?

21

Mr. lodgman.

Yas.

As I said earlior, I cannot bo certain that 1 - that

22

23

he would have gong away with the idea that I would immediately

24

do 1t, or that I would

sook further authorization.

Mr. Wides. Now, subsequant to the sanding of the request

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 51

Dagon IANas 2071;

2105,018

tuasa.naton, 0.C

10003

2

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'9

14

15

20

* 1

27

24

25

TOP SECRET

48

for confirmation, and the receipt of the cable which you have

a recollection of, both confirming the instructions, what

further staps did you take in the congo, and what further

communications did you have with Haadquarters regarding the

mission?

Lat's take that one step at a time.

What further slaps did you take prior to Mr. O'Donnell i

coming?

Mr. ledgman. I balieve that I querled the agent who had

accoas to Lumumba, and his entourage, in detail about just what

that accass, what accoss he actually had, as opposed to spoakinal

to people. In othur words, did he have accosa to the bathroom,

did ho have accoss to the kitchan, things of that sort.

I havo a recollection of having querled him on that without.

specifying why I wanted to know this.

Mr. Wides, Did you take any other stops to find out the

pattern of Patrice Lumumba's activitles as they might relate

to attempting to put thess lethal agents into food or toothpaste?

Mr. Hodgman. That's what I, in essenco, I think what !

#was doing there was -- but without

apacitying why.

Mr: Hides.

Did you recall any other steps? What did you

do

with the materials themselves?

MI. lledgman. la I rocall, I placed than In the bottom

drawer of my safd, to which I had access.

Mr. Wides.

No one else had the combination, or did anyonu

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

• §I., Mesarcaron, D.E 10003

:

1

2

3

6

8

9

10

11

1:?

13,

14

15

16

19

20

22.

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

49

elsa have the combination to the sala?

Mr. lledgman. Yas, I belleve my secretary had the

combination.

Mr. Baron. Did you discuss this with your secretary?

Mr. lledgman. I most certainly did not.

Mr. Widas. Has she in the habit of occasionally opening

il the safe rather than yoursalf?

Mr. Hedgman. Yas.

Mr. Wides. What would have happonod, or what did you

anticipate would happen, if she had opened the safe and seen

these packages?

Mr. Hedgnan. Well, I belleve they wore probably wrappad

sealed in

an envelope or paper markod probably -= 1 put that.

and this 19 again probably - Eyes Only, so for myself

Mi. Wides.

You didn't feul it nocossary to indicate to

her that there ward some packages here and I don't want you to

open them or to look at them?

Mr. Hedgman.

If I goaled it and put Fyes Only on it,

she would not have.

ME. Wides. Did you send subsequent cables back or have

furthor communication with leadquartars after the request for

confirmation?

Mr. lledgman. Yos. It ls my recollection I sent several.

two or three, something lika that.

Mr. Wides. What was

the substance of each of those?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 53

2108.09t591

SE. trash.090, 06 10008

2

6

8

10

1]

12

13

14

15

16

1%

1+5

19

20)

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

50

Farma (M093 2021 544

Mr. lodgman. I cannot give you the substance, I beliave

they ware in the naturo of progress reports.

MI. Wides. With regard to your finding an access?

Mr. lladgman. Yos.

HI. Wides. Do you recall any cables back from Headquarters

after the firet one indicating the affirmation?

Mr, ladgman. I ballovo there was. If I had to bat money

on this one, I would say, I would bat on the fact that there

was it loast one or two more back to me.

Mr. Wides. What is your best recollection as to the

nature of those?

Mr. ledgman.

I don't really haya a recollection. !

recall. that there was ong more, than

one cable, more than

two cables, the one saying that there ls the man coming, and

thare was the one which I recall saying yos, that's right.

and you are to follow out his instructiong or his instructions

are duly issued or something to the affect. And I believe there

was one, one or tro otier cablas, but I don't have a recollaction

of their contents. Probably quarying for further explanation.

but I cannot confirm that.

Mr. Hides. Let me ask you the following quastion: you

have Indicatad that, I bollove you have testiflad, and correct

me i! I am wrong, but I have a racollection that you

at the time

thought you had the authority to go ahead with the use of the

lathal agants if you thought it could be dond within the guidglides

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 54

. Ал

F..

TOP SECRET

51

givan you, You have ralsed the posalbility, although you have

no rocollection, that thare might have baon a hold and a need

for further approval.

Is it fair to say that you undorstood that this was well

Mayond the exploratory stage as a concalvable option that the u.s!

6

might tako, and that you undorstood that from the highost

authority, that la the Preaidant, there were instructions

8

to carry out the assassination of Lumumba if it could be dona

9

without attribution, but that leadquartera might have oxpected

10

some indication from you of how you were going to do it prior

11

to tho actual Implamontation? Is that a fair summary of what

12

Hyou are talling us?

13

Mr. lodgman. Will you rapeat that? Could she --

14

Mr. Hides. That you had recalved instructions from the

15

highest authorty, that is the President, down through the Agency,

11f that is possible, becauses of their concern about Mi. Lumumba

1'71 to use lethal agents to assassinate him, but that you might have!

I'll you had racalved the authority to do that, and thore was a

19

direction to do it if possible, but that you might have sent back

20

to leadquartors, in guarded language, an Indication of how you

en l were going to go about it, or that you had doeddod that it could

2%

be dona in a feasible way before going ahead with it.

23

Is that a fair summary?

24

Mr. Hedgman. I think probably that I would have gone back

25

and advised that I intended to carry out and sought final

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

thad 19-66 9081 964

r.

Has9.ng9n.01

3

6

9

10

11

1. 1

13

14

15

16,

11

18

10|

*1

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

52

approval before carsying it out had I been going to do it, had

thare boan a way to do 1t. I did not sue 1t an a practical, as

a mattar which could be accomplishad practically, cortainly.

Mo. Baron. As far as you were concarned, the policy

dacision had been made at lleadquartars and in the Whita louse.

to assassinato Lumumba, and the questions that romalned ware

oparational queations, ly that correct?

Mr. lodgman. It 1s now my recollection, some fifteen

years latar - and

again I stross flfteen Years - that I

thought the polley declaion had been made in the White

House,

not in the Agency, and that the Agency had been seloctod as

tha Executivo Agunt, 1f you will, to carry out a political

decision.

Ar. Baron. And any

further communication --

MI. Widos.. Excuse

md, pleaso.

And the political decision was if possible he should be

eliminatod?

MI. Hedgman.

As a threat.

Mr. Widos, As a threat.

• Mr. lodgman. Assassination balna one means.

Mr. Wides. That had been approved?

Mr. llodgman. Of achloving. I felt at the timo ..

Mr. Midas. As a polloy matter?

Mr. Hedgman. Yes, I thought at the tine, yes, that it

had boon approved. That is my recollaction, yes.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

57yт 1aл09

1

3

6

TOP SECRET

53

Ir. baron. So any furthar communicationa that you would

have had, as you mentioned a moment ago, to sex approval from

Headquartars would have bean approval for the specific oparational

modes that you would use to carry out the program?

Mr. ledgman. I think that's probably the case, 81r.

Mr. Widos, And is lt correct you are Indicating in that

regard your estimation now of what your :Ilkaly course of action

would have been in terms of how you would have proceeded, given

your situation there, la that correct?

Mr. Hadgman. I don't understand, sir.

Mr. Wides. In tarms of checking -- well, you Indieated

you think now you probably would have checked back hadore going

ahead?

9

10

1)

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

MI. Hedgman. Yes.

Mr. Widos.

Is it correct to say that that is your

astimation now of how you would have docided to procaed, but

that is not necessarily your instruction that you had to check

that, because I think you indicated before you had no recol.

lection that you felt your instructions ware to check back before

•going ahead?

MI. lodgman. I am not. sura that I sald that. I don't

know for sure

that I had an absolute froedom.

Mr, Widos, I understand. But you said bafore, 1f 1 am

correct, that you had no recollaction of a requirement to so

back?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

110a

2071 360 6004

51:001.38., M446-a907, D.C.1000)

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

122

13

14

15

16

14

19

20

21

2:

24

25

TOP SECRET

54

MI. ledgman. Thare is a differenco betwoon 'not having a

recollection and being sure.

MI. Hidas. I understand. And you sald that you did have

a recollection, although you aren't cortain, that you falt...

free to go ahead, whatavor you might have done in terma of

your porsonal decision of how to proceed?

Mt. lledgman. I think I said that I thought the polloy

decision had boon made at the political level and that the Agency

had bean Inatructed to neutralizs, to remove from position of

power or whatavor position of threat, Lumumba -I am not

fancing with you.

Mr. Widus.

No, I understand.

With regard to Me. O'Donnell's arrival, shas did ho

indicate to you was his mission when ho arrived?

Mr. Madgman:

I understood it to he that -- similar to

mine, that is the removal or neutralization of lumumba.

I am

not sure what wording he would have used.

Mr. Wides, Did he discuss i th you tha possibility of

agsassinating Lumumba?

MI. Hadgman. I can -= I have no clear recollaction of

his discussing the assassination.

I know that -- I hava a

fairly good rocollection that he was there for the sumoval of

Lumumba. Whether the word assassination, whether the word -

MI. Widas. Do you hava any rocollaction of discussing

with Justin O'Donnall the practicallity and the morality guneral

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

agat (A480 7091 340-7007

!..

wattengiar.

30003

]

2

6

7

8

9

10

11

14

15

10

1'7

14

19

21

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

55

of assassination as an Agancy activity?

Mr. ladgman. As an Agancy activity, 1 am not suro.

Cartainly, and in that apocific case I balleva that I did

Hiscuss with him the practical problans involved in carrying

out such an operation.

Mr. Widas. Such an oparation being the assassination of

• political figure?

MI. lledgman, Yes, agsanaination or any other ramoval

from power, becausa we did not have tho

MI. Wides.

I am not sure if your testimony la you do

recall discussing, among other things, assassinatlon with

Justin O'Donnell of that you don't recall diacussing it vich

Ihim?

Mr. Hadgman.

I cannot affirm that I diacuased chis, but

I assuma i must have discussed it. I diacussed, for example.

the question of access.

Mr. Wides, I take it then that you have no recollection

Of his indicating to you one way of the other whether assassina-

tlon was an option that he was considering?

Mr. lledgman. No, I don't.

Mr. Wides. As a way of eliminating lumumba?

Mr. lodgman. I think I, since, in view of my instructions!

may have assumed that he

was doing this.

15. Hides. Did he indicate to you anything about a

conversation that he had had with Mr. Risaull regarding

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

7021 341

2

3

5

7

8

10

11

12

1:.

14

15

16

1'1

1k

19

20

21

22

23,

24

25

Mr. Wides.. And do you incall ever indicating to him that

there was a virus or other doadly blological agent in the

safe?

Mr. Hedgman.

I do not recall that, no, but I gather that

I must have from what you told me yesterday.

Mr. Dawson. You statad yesterday, I ballove ..

MI. Wides. Excuse me.

Let me just on the rocord clarify that.

Do you mean by that if. MI. O'Donnell testifled you did

tall him you would not dispute that, you just have no recollec-

tion?

S.C.. Hassn.a9:09. DE 2000}

TOP SECRET

56

assassination of ME. Lumumba?

Mr. lladgman. I do not rocall his discussing that with

Mr. Hedgman. I have no recollection.

Mr. Dawson. You sald yesterday you not only were

unenthualastie about it, I bolieve were the termy you used.

about the prospect of seeking to assasginate Lumumba, but !

thought you also said that O'Donnell was not particularly

enthuslastle about his work there either?

ME. lledgman.

Y09.

I would put it yos, his work there. I cannot pin 1t

dow to assassination as such, although

certainly in my own

mind I think I must have thought that at the time. I didn't.

was not enthuslastic about these instructions, and I had

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 60

mono: (9098799) 548

PALI

m:9a6100. 0600001

TOP SECRET

57

]

2.

no - had the imprassion he was not that happy aven to be

there.

6

9

10

1]

1?

13

14

==

15

16

1'1

14

19

20,

21

22

23

24

25

MI. Hides. You said yesterday, I belleve you sald you

felt under no pressure to carry out the assignment, is that

a correct statament?

Mr. Hedgman. Yeah. I don't recall gatting mossages to

cho offact, which quite often one yats whon you have been given

Instructions to carry out a specific operation, you know, let's

hava the information, what are you doing, why aren't you doing

more? I do not recall prosgure on

me to got moving on this

thing and do it and carry it out.

Mr. Wides. You indicated a moment ago, I think, in

connection with. Mr. O'Donnall coming and your general wonderinn

at the timo of his approval, whether thore was dissatisfaction

with your performance that the Congo had become a contral area

o f focus for the government and their concern over les future

and Soviet intervention and 90

forth, is that right?

Mr. lledgman. Yes.

I knaw -- wall, of course by the

time that Mr. O'Donnell arrived, the Soviet intervention was.

Is hall we say, limited, if I rocall correctly, only to the norch

and northeastern part of the country, because the soviets had

been expelled.

Mr. Hides.

I meant in the larger sense of sovlot influence

or Conmunist influance

eventually in the country?

Mr. lodgman. Yas.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 61

..

i .

a 10 8 0051 9

S.R., a6A98:0n, DE :0003

2

5

6

7

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

18

19

20

21

22

26

25

TOP SECRET

58

Now, let's see. Hould you rapat that?

Mr. Hides. Well, the essence of the question is simply

that at this tima, by late Saptambar, early Octobar, the Congo

waS

an area of great concern to the United States governmant?

Mr. lodgman. Coxract.

MI. Widos. There was a general senso of urgency about

the problams?

Mi. Hedgman.

That's correct.

MI, Wides.

The potential problems, and you had gotten

the unusual communication, a direct personal mesgangor, that

the President of the Unitad Statas had instructed the Agency

to aliminate Lumumba?

Mr. Hedgman.

Right.

Mr. Wides. Now, l find it a little hard to understand

In that contaxt how you would have regarded, how you could have

regarded it as not a high-priority itam with some urgency

involved.

Mr. ledgman. Well, certainly it was a priority, but

there vero many priorities, and that was one of my problems

at the time, that I was swamped with work, a little blt like

you with four people calling you horo.

Mr. Wides. Wall, would you have rated this on a comparable

lovel with various intelligence requirements that you would have,

got in the normal courga?

Mr. ledgman. No, I would have - but there wore a number

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

• (AN86 707) 546

I..

MasAngion, D 6 1020)

410+

1

3

6

7

9

10

11

1?.

13

1÷

15

16

1'

1&

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

59

of other roguirements which ware laviad on me which we are not

dlacussing and la not in the purview of this discussion today.

I think thare was one major thing probably which took some of

the heat off, that is, that Lumumba had been assentially

nautralizad within his offica complex, home and office complex

share ha was under guard by the United Nations.

I'e was able to sand messages out, but the - there had

been a coup d'otat, at least. there was a coup d'ata on tha

night of the 14th of September, 1960. A government which was,

although nationalistically oriented seemed relativaly friendly

toward the United Statos, was in powar. There was a great deal

of discussion as to its legality at cho time, but that was

resolved by the Unitod States and most of the Western powers

who decided that it was legal since the government, since once

Prosidant Kagavubu appointed the members of that government,

his government, ha was the legal Chief of Stato.

So I would. do you follow what I am trying to say?

MI. Wides. Yes, I do.

MI. lladgman. I think there was a lessening in my own

i. faeling, of urgency.

15. Hides. Each time that you sont a cable back -- you

aald you thought you had sant several after the request for

confirmation

1t. lladgman. I think I did.

ME. Wides.

Was that simply something you made up, or did

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 63

pagas (ArRe 208).

100

!

1

2

3

4

17

9

10

11

12

14

15

16

1'7

19

20

₴ 1

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

60

that raflect additlonal action that you had taken?

MI. liedgman. No, it was not a fabricatod messado.

In

othar words, I didn't fabricate things.

Mr. Hides. Did it just reflect further thoughts, or

did it reflect a roport on somy further stops you had taken?

Mo. Hedgman. I think probably, and i cannot be sure of

this, air, I think it probably raflacted further steps which

I had taken; that is, exploratory staps.

Ms. Wires. How many times did you spoak to the agent about

what kinds of access he had, and what Lumumba's patterns waro?

Was it on more than one occasion?

Mr. lodgman. I balieve so. I belleve it would have buen

on two, possibly three.

Mr. Hides. What other staps of activitlas had you

undertakon which were raported in your cable?

Mr. lodgman. I think that was it. nuarying him, and

then personal observations of the area.

Mr. Wides. Did YOu indicate tojMe. O'Donnelliwhat you

had dons in that regard when he came?

Mr. ledgman. I assume I did, bus I cannot be suro.

Mr. Wides. And do you recall --

Mr. Hedgman. I mean, it would have boon normal for mo

to have done Bo.

Mr. Hidas. Do you recall discussing with him

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 64

+14184802) 884-6005

$

1...

110801? 5t

3.f., Heptargion. D.E. 20009

TOP SECRET

Mi. Modgman. I don't rocall it, but I assume I must

61

2

3

hava.

Mr. Widas. Why do you assume you must have?

Mr. ledgman. Becausy you told me yesterday that he

tastified that I had told him I had blological agents in my

6

B

9

10

11

22

sala.

14

15

16

19

19

20

21

22

2:

24

25

Mr. Wides. And you think you would have told him the

additlonal background of recoipt of those? Is that de?

Mr. Hedgman. I ballavo so.

Ms, Wides. Did you take any steps in the way of discus

slong with the agant you mantloned, or any other steps, to

further axplore the possibllity

of Implamenting these instrue-

tons onca lo. O'Donnall arrived?

Mr. Hedgman.

I do not recall. I tend to doubt it, because

I bellove he left, left town and went to Stanloyville, tho

agent I am speaking about, sometima in October.

But that's

Mr. Wides. Did you feel some sense of rellef of not

having to pursue the quastion of eliminating Lumumba after

Mr. O'Donnell arrived because you sort of fait that this was

l'his apocal assignment?

MI. lledgman. Probably. But on tha other hand, I was

the gondor -- I was not the senior officar, but l was the

commanding officer, if you will, and anything that took place

was also my responsibility.

Mr. Widas. What did you know of what he tried to do with

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 65

* 1 Ar 5a

1071

8

2

3

5

6

7

alde 20 s

10

11

13

14

15

16

17

1H

2i,

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

62

regard to aliminating, he being

'O'Donnell, in regard to

eliminating Lumumba?

Mi. Hedgman. It is hard to recall now. I know we mat.

He probably roported verbally to mo what steps he was taking,

and that may have boon those, his raports may hava been those

massages also which I sont. I sald I thought i sont saveral

mossangos via that spacial channel, and in rotrospect, I may

havo boan reporting one of those mansaros, they may have been

raports which he gavo me to send back to washinaton.

Mr. Wides. Well, let me ask you thin: I have raviewed,

and I can reprasant to you that I have revlewed

saveral files

regarding his activitias in the Congo, and they Include in the

normal massage traffic, between Leopoldville and the Congolese

desk at the Agency, refarances to him in his crypt, and his

activities there.

Did that suggast that -

Mr. Hedgman.

110'8 --

MI. Wides. There might be other, there might be, are

you saying there might also be massagus renardina his activities

In the spocial channel, or would that suggest to you that hls

activities were not communicated in the special channeli

Mr. llodgman. It doesn't suggast eithor one, really.

am again not trying to

fance with you or anything. I don't

know. I would guess that I would

have

sent in a special

channal anything dealing with lumumba, at least that would

touch upon his rumoval in one way or anothar.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 66

TRAS (ANDE 70T) 368-8006

r..

a10 5 ust Sirsor.

titangton, D E 2000)

1

2

G

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

63

Mr. Wides, Doas' the crypt JMOGRE mean anything to you?

Mr. ledgman. No, sir.

Mr. Wides.

Do you recall a time when 'Mr. O'Donnell had

an agent come into the congo to assist him in his efforts?

MI. lodgman. I had not rememberad that until yesterday

when you raised it.

Mr. Widos. Do you now have a racollaction, refreshed, of

his having someone come in?

Mr. llodgman.

A vague recollection, very vaque.

Mr, Wides. Do you recall whare the parson came

from, or

whether ho was a CIA officer, or juse a contract ayent?

Mr. Hedgman. From the name you used for him yesterday,

I would know that he would be an agent as opposed to an

intelligence officer.

Mr. Wides.

But you have no indepandent recollection of

who he was or where he was from or his background?

-. -

MI. Hedgman.

No. I had forgotten that entroly.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall a time when you learned that

Patrico Lumumba had escaped from his house detention or arrest

1 n

tha Presidontial Palace?

Mr. lludgnan. Yes, It was not the Palaco, the Prima

Miniator's cosidence.

Mr. Hides. The Prime Minister's residence.

And do you rocall whether you had any foreknowledge that

that was imminent, or a likely possibility?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 67

{..

$: 05,481 51:001,5.6-19419.09:09.

DE :006)

1

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

1]

12

13

14

13

16

1?

149

19

20

21

22

25

24

25

TOP SECRET

64

MI. lodgman. No, I did not racall that. He did not

1t did not seem likoly, since the antire ares was surrounded

by Congolesa troops.

Mr. Widea. Do you know of any assistance or involvament

of ME, O'Donnall'os his agent of anyone also connected with the

Station in Mr. Lumumba's escape from the dotention?

Mr. lodgman. I am quite cartain that there was no Agency

involvamant in any way, because I think I would -- I am convinced

I would have known it as Chlaf of station.

O'Donnell could not have taken such action under normal

Agency procedures without consulting me.

MI. Wides. Now, la it correct that when ho ascaped, Mr.

Lumumba tried to journey to the Stanleyvilla ragion whore his

following was the strongest,

and that along the way, en route,

he was apprehended by the Contral Congolese government authori-

ties and brought back under arrest, first to Leopoldville,

is that correct?

Mr. lodgman. That's correct.

Mr. Widas. And this happened some time in the period of

. November?

MI. Madaman. Late November.

Mr. Wides. And to your knowledga or information that you

might have, was there any CIA assistance provided In any

significant way for tracking him down and the afforts to

recapture him?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 68

Trona | 9000 2021 844

1

2

3

5

6

9

10

11

12

1÷

15

16.

1'

14

2U

{'1

22

2"

'24

25

TOP SECRET

65

Mr. liedgnan. No.

I ballovo as ve sald yosterday, you asked me if I had a

plane and did spotting of anything of that sort. No, we did not.

Mr. Hides. Or providing any other insources or intelli

ganco information or guidance of any sort?

Ms. Hedgman. Ha had no intelligance Information.

¡Guidance, as I said, I racall being with. I believe, Congolore

officars to the offact that they ware trying to flure out how

to head him off, a discussion about there ware only a certain

number of farrios and river crossings where

the roads - you

¿now, thare were a limitad numbor of roada, and ho had to go

through doop rain forests and major Ilverg were crossed.

I may have commented. I don't know

for

gure.

MI. Hides.

But you would not charactarize your activities

as providing any assistance

to the congolose to locato him, or

would you?

Mr. lodgman. I honestly, I don't think it -- 1f lt was

any assistance, certainly

not a major assistance.

Mr. Wides. Do you racall any communication wich the

Agancy willa Mr. Lumumba was at large prior to your trip to

Rome, which I will get to in a moment, ahout his escape or, l'n

sorry, about your provision of any assistance or cooperatina

with --

Mr. ladgman. I don't recall,

Mo. Wides. = the Congolese goverrment?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 69

отото і ая ай

2081

A10

TOP SECRET

66.

1

Mr. lledgman. I am cortain I sent cables about what I knew

2

about it, about what I would gather from things. I may have

.3

commented about what. might have been done to head him off.

Mr. Wides. Would those have been in the normal channels.

those communications?

6

Mr. Hodgman. Yos. I would assume thay would have bean.

7

8

9

I Renamber, we aro at that time - I should stross this, this makes

gulto a distoranco - our communicationa lacilitles wore marginal.

to say the least, and wo did not have the modern equipment wheer!

10

18 now usad in most stations, ambassles, where you just alt

11

down and poke it out. And I won't go into the technical aspacts

12

but it took much longer to code, encode and decode massagas.

12

As a result, I kept my messages much shorter than what

14

I would nowadaya. So, I presume and assume that i sant whateveri

15

intolligence I could gather on what was happening.

16,

Mr. Wides. Was there a time In Novenber when you went

to

Rome for a moating with MI. Bissall and 4r. Tweedy?

Mr. Hedgman. That's correct.

19

Mr. Hidas. And Bronson Tweedly and Richard Bissall?

Mr. lledgman. That's correct.

20

Mr. Wides. And this took place at l

He Mansion L

2: 1

Mr. lledgman. That's correct.

22

Mr. Hides. The meeting?

Mr. Hedgman. Yus.

24

MI. Widea. And Mr. Karamessinus, Thomas Karamesnines, wis

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 70

7031291-4000

warrangion, D.6.20001

67

]

2

5

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

19

21

22.

2:1

24

25

TOP SECRET

27

then

he statong chief inl

Mr. Hedgman. He was.

Mr. Wides.

Has he present for some of the discussions, or

only for the general, the social -

MI. lodgman. I balleve ho was present at the general

discusslong that we had.

Me. Hidas. Do you recall -

Mi. lodgman. I know he was there part of the evaning.

This took place at his

home as opposed to the office.

Mr. Wides. And part of the discussion and the main locus

was with regard to the congo, was on the

fact that Lumumba was

on tho 100se, and 1t wasn't clear whother ho would Incito an

uprising?

Mr. Hedgman. I would say it was more claarly a complete

overview of what was going on, including the threat of the

Ishombe sucassion. Of cortainty, Lumumba's escape would have

bean a major point of discussion,.as was the fact that fizenda

had set up a government which he claimed to be the only true and

legitimates government in Stanleyvills.

Mr. Wides. Has Ma. Lumumha one of tha topicy that you

rocall discussing?

Mr. lledgman.

I'm quite cartain that we did, but l mean --

Mr. Wides. This would have been because he was on the

100se at that point?

Mr. Hodgman. Yes.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 71

7021182

."

S.E.

вжал. Р є ґ0001

TOP SECRET

68

Mr. Hidos, And had not baan capturad and was a potential

2

3

threat?

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

11:

19

1:1

28.

23.

24

25

Mr. Hodgman. Yog.

I had asked not to lnave to attend the maoting. My

rocollaction la I sant a message saying that in my opinion !

should not leave the congo at that timo.

MI. Widos. I know that wa hava had a little more chance

to think ahout it. Can you recall now any discussion at that

masting regarding Lumunha's possible assasaination, either

prospoctivaly or with. reference back to your earlier cablas to

leadquarters and your. maoting with

Mr. Hergman. No, I cannot.

Mr. Dawson. This meetina was a mestina of the African

Station Chiefs, was it not?

Mr. Hodgman. Yes, I don't know whether all wore there.

or the majority, but cartainly a number of them wore there.

But, thay were not present at the evening meeting.

Mr. Dawson. No. I understand that.

MI. Hedgman. I was piven sort of a speclal treatment.

into see him, and then I could leave.

Hr. Wides. Did you ever have any discussions with

Bronson Twnudy regarding the assassination of Lumumba where both

the

assassination, the quastion

of assassination, the question

ut assassination in relation to bunumba came up, dither in tha

fall of '60 or later 1960 or later on?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 72

(mona (A121 208) 942-6004

..

0n. D 6 50003

1

2

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

111

19

11

2%

2.3

24

25

TOP SECRET

69

Mr. Hedgman. I must assume that we did, but 1 cannot he

cartain of that.

Mr: Wides, I think you indlcated to un yesterday you

racalled talking with Bronson Twaady in rogard to Lumumbo and

Baying in offoct that, thank God nothing was ever dona. And I

thought the implication was -

Mr. llodgman.

I think i probably, I said I probably said

that sort of thing, but to racall a spaelfic meating and.

converaation on this subject, I am not sure that I sald that.

Mr Widos, Would you say you have no recollection of

discussing assassination of lumumba with Ironson Tweedy?

Mr. Hedgman.

I have a vaque recollection of saying, you

know, something to the offect that It was a ood thing we

didn't, but I can't be

Mr. Wides.

you can't placo it, but you have some recol-

lection that you had such a discussion?

Mr. lodgman.

I think so, sir... But this

is a pretty

vague thing in my mind.

Mr. Hides, And can you recall when you think that

happened? I don't mean by specific date, but that is the periodi

in question or much later on?

Mr. lledgman.

Prohably later on, but I don't know. That's

a guety.

Mr. Wides, Do you recall over having a discussion with

Mr. Missall rogardling 1t?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 73

1.

!

¡do, 7:7

1

2

3

5

7

8

9

20

11

12

13

14

15

16

1%

111

1:1

1':

24

25

TOP SECRET

70

ME. lledgman. To what.?

Mr. Wides. With rogard to the assassination of lumumba?

Did that particular question ever come up in discussions that

you had with Mr. Bissoll elthar during the events which we have

been

discussing or after the events?

Mr. lledgman.

Of course, I didn't saa Mr. Dissoll very

ofton. I aaw him

and 1 naxt saw him whan I raturned

in dato January of 1961, when

I returnod co the statas. I cannot!

recall such a conversation, but I think lt la possible, perhaps

even likoly.

Mr. Wides, But you have no recollection?

155, lodgman. No, sir.

Mr. Wides, Would the sany bo true with regards to Mr.

Dulles, that you have no recollection, although it is possiblo?

Mr. Hedgman. Yes.

MI. Wides. Do you recall --

115. ledgman. I saw Mr. Nulles even lass often.

• Mr. Wides. Do you recall dincussing the fact that you

had rocolved instructions to try to aggassinate Lumumba with

Director Schlosinger in 1973?

M5. Hedgman. I belleve it was at that tina that I spoke

to him, bocause when he took over, aither ho or ar. Colby lagued

a request for any information which would, activitias conducted

or considered, what have you, by the ngency, which would appear

illegal.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 74

6202

+97y) outsad

.."

r. .

dair

2

3

5

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

1G

1'

: 1s

4

19

1:1

2:3

24

25

TOP SECRET

71

Mr. Wides. Do you think that was the time, but you have

a definito racollection that in any event you did at sone point

relate this, ralate the fact of these instructions to Director

schlesinger?

Mr. lledgman. I think it was schlosingar, It could have

been Colby, but I bellovo it was Schlesinger, or I may have

cold both of thom.

Mr. Widos.

Other than those two rentlemen and the people

wa havo discussed aiready --

Mr. Baron. What exactly did you tall Schlesinger as far

as

you can recall that now?

Mr. ledgman. That, to the affect that I felt that i had

racelved Instructions to assassinate Lumunha.

Mr. Baron. You didn't mention the means by which this

was to be carried out?

MI. Hedgman.

I dount it, but I don't know.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall mentioning the Presidential

authority?

Mr. lledgman. I think that I did.

Mr. Haron. You say you may have discussed le with both

Schlesinger and Colby, that would havo been a discussion that.

would have taken placu

subsequently with Colby when he became

DC1?

Mr. Hedgman. Well, of course Colby was Executive Director

under Me, Schlosinger, Colby could have begn

In the room when

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 75

3

5

6

7

8

10

1:

12

13

14

15

16

17

1H

19

LU

1!!

24

TOP SECRET

92

I reportod to Schlesingor. It la silly that I don't remember

specifically this, but 1 did make, I did soport this vorbally.

I

profaried not to --

MI. Widus. And your bost recollec lon is you reported it

to schlosinger, and you may have alao reported it to Mr. Colby.

1a

that your boat rocollection?

Mr. Hessman. Yes. Yas.

MI. Maron. And you were going to say that you proferred

not to put it in wiiting?

MI. Hedgman. It was

the

sort of thing I did not wish to

dictate to a secretary, and boing one, it not one of the world's'

best typists, and thirdly it seemed to me

it was a matter not.

to circulate on papor, frankly, It was a mintako that it --

Mr. Wides. Can you recall ever discussing this with

Richard Helms?

Mr. Hedgman. No, I don't recall.

Mr. Wides, - the

Instruction to assagginate?

MI. lledgman.

I don't recall.

Mr. Wides. Is there anyone alse in the Agancy you can

t ver recall discussing this assigned mission with?

MI. Heigman.

No.

It'g

possible that I talled with some-

one like Tom Karameggines when he

was DDP. But --

Mr. Dawson. Did you talk to

subsequent to

his arrival in the congo?

Mo, Hides, You nean aftor his departuto, aftor that trip?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 76

R0O0: 2CW0:01en

7001:5

180, 918

2

3

4

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

11

19

224)

28.

TOP SECRET

73

Mr. Dawson. Yes, subsequent to.

Mr. ladgman. I saw him numarous times.

Mr. Dawson. And your reaction to him was thank God we

didn't have to carry that mission out, or thank rod it didn't

happan?

Mr. Hodgman. Well, I talked to him about so many things,

and I probably said that.

MI. Widas. Do you have a tacollaction of discussing with

him at a subsaquent time to his trip to Leopoldville, ever

raising the instructions he gave you for his trip?

Mr. lledgman.

Not specifically as such.

1r. Wides, You don't have a escollection, or you don't

recall discussing it specifically, but you recall some general

illusion to 1t?

Mr. Hedgman. Yes, I Iacall goneral illusion to it.

Mr. Dawson. No you recall talking to anybody within the

last gix months about this, or more recently?

Mr. Wires.

since the first of the year?

11r. ledgman. Yoah. I am just trying to go through in my

own mind.

(l'ause)

Yus, Mr. Colby, I saw him the othar day when I returned.

Ar. Wides, What. was your discussion wich him in that

regard?

24

25

Mr. ledgman. I told him 1 assumed this sublect would comel

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 77

r..

есхої за чотим і

5 10 8 001

TOP SECRET

74

1

2

up.

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14 1

15

16

17

!

3 1S

19

20)

1:1

li

24

25

MI. Dawson, This subject? Did you axpect him to be

fully cognizant with all the particulars?

Mr. lodgman. I am not. sure that I did.

MI. Dawson. At least the Presidential authorization and

tha passage of the vials of poison, the person that was used

to pass thesa?

MI. Hodgman. I mentloned

name.

I am not

suro that I mantioned vials of poison or -

ME. Wides, Old you indicato to him

had come

to tho Congo?

Mr. Hodgman.

I believe

I did.

Mr Dawson, Well, lat me just follow that.

And the Presidential authorization, was that also

mentioned?

MI. Hedgman. Yas, I am quite sure I mentioned that.

MI. Dawson.

MI. Madgman.

What was his reaction?

reaction was that it was a great shame

that this ever happened. I'm putting words in his mouth.

Mr. Dawson, Go right ahead.

Mr. Hodgman. And certainly that i must obvioualy report.

fully and honestly to the Committee.

Mr Widos, Did ho discuss, say anything about his prior

knowledge of what

you had just told him?

Did he saamed

surprised by any of what you told him?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 78

MAID B

.*

t..

1

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'%

111

19

L0)

X:1

2 b

TOP SECRET

75

Mr. lodgman. No, I don't think

80. I think that I had

given him thia, or as I sald earlier, probably de the samo time

or parallal with when I did Dr. Schlesinger.

Mr. Wides, When you saw him Incently and mentioned this,

you rofar to your tolling this to Director Schlesingor, or

did you Bay, as you recall?

M5. llerigman.

something like that.

Mr. Wides.

And did he acknowledge that he had learned

of it carlior?

Mr. Hadyman. Acknowledge? I think ho indicated - I

would, have, would have assumad from his conversation that he

recalled something about it, yes.

Mr. Wides.

Did the fact that.

had made a

trip to the Congo seem to surprise him, or did he acknowledge

that he was aware of that as well?

Mr. Hergman. I don't krow. I don't know that I sald at

this time that. I referred

to

travel to thes

Conyo when

I saw him.

Mr. Hides.

Recently?

Hr. Hedynan. Just the othor day when I camo back I pair

a courtesy call on him.

Mr. Dawson. This was 11kes this weak then?

Mr. lledgman.

Yes.

Il was Monday, I bellove.

Mr. Dawson.

Do you recall anybody else that was a part!

to that conversation, or whom you harl similar convorsations with

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 79

2021

..

1

2

TOP SECRET

recontly, aimilar and saparate?

76

MI. Wides. Was there anyone there when you spoke to Mr:

Colby?

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

16

15

16

17

10

10

Mr. lledgman.

For part of it, part of the meating, and

then wa ware alone for part of the meetina.

MI. Wides. Was there anyone there when you mantloned what

ly ou thought he wanted to talk to you shout?

Mo. Hedgman. No, thore was no one else present.

Mr. Wirios. And hava you spoken to anyone alre?

Mr. lodgman, I didn't wish to raise this in front of

other Agency employees, because it suemed to me that I dian't

know who was

aware of this.

I had no desire to discusa it in

front of othurs.

Mr. Wides, Did he indicate anything as to what he thousht?

anyone elso had told the Committed or would tall the committee,

including Me. Bissell, Mr. O'Connell

DE

23

24

Ht. Hedgman.

No. He just indicated that it was very

difficult -- I am really putting words in his mouth and I

f-shouldn't do this. I had the impression that he regretted thin

vary much, that this had ever happoned, and the truth has

1.0

come out, and that was the only way for the Agency to over

regain its étatus and usefulness.

But I an putting --I am

elaborating probably, He may not have thought all of those

things.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 80

mana (Ara+ 709) 394-4001

1.

TOP SECRET

97

1

Mr. Widos. Have you had any conversationg directly or

2

through Intermodiary communicationg with olthar Mr. Blasall or

3

Mr. Twaady

since you raturned?

Mi. lledgman.

NO.

I tried to call Mr. Tieudy as an old

5

personal friend on his phone twice and thare was no answer.

So

6

I assumo ha is away on vacation or something, elther that or

7

"mayba he's in town and I just missed him.

8

Mi. Dawson. So to summarizo, the only persor. you roally

recall havana all of the facts of the prosidential authorizacion!

10

passing of the virus, with whom you really have a flem recollec-

11

tion, I should say,

1s

12

Mr. ludaman.

Yes.

I would have quesser that.

13

MI. Wides.

Excuse me.

14

15

You mean he

ever discussed it with?

MI. Dawson. The whole picture, or the panorama of things

16

that might have taken place.

Mr. Hedgman.

I don't think that 1--1 mean, he discussed!

111

" it with ne.

Mr. Dawson. I agree, sir.

19

Mr. Wides. Let me ask you two more questions if I can.

%:1

and then 1 will have to leave.

MI. Baron. Just to follow this up, have you snoken to

Jabout coming to the committee?

Mr, ledgman, I have not. l have nor seen him.

24

25

Mr. Wirlas, With regard to the evants subsequent to

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 81

Paouza 1 to os

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

10

12

13

14

15

1H1

10

20

11

A10802

26

TOP SECRET

7R

MI. Lumumba's recapture and hia detontion la Thaysville --

MI. Hadgman. Thaysville.

Mr. Wides. Thaysville.

And his subsequent, Mr. Lumumba's subsequent transportation

to Katanga, what discussions did you have with the congolone

officials and what kind of quidance or input did you or anyone

from the U.S. Embassy or Station make Into those dacisions to

tranaport him to Katanga?

Mr. Hedynan. To the bast of my knowledge, nolther the

Station or the Embassy had any input in the decision to send

him to Katanga.

Mr. Wires, What discussiong were there with the Consolese

officials as to whether no might be executad either by the

Contral covernment while he was under their control or by

Mr. Tshombe when he was

sant to Katanga?

MI. lodgman. I don't recall any such conversations. I

think there was a general assumption, once we learned hi ha!

boch sout to Katanga, that his

goose was cooked, because ishumbe

hated him and looked on him as a danger and a rival.

Mr. Wides. But you had no discussions with anyone in the

Contral Congolese government regarding whether ha should or

should not bo sent thare?

Mr. ledgman. I had absolutely nona, no sir.

15. Wides. And onco ho was there, what Information dil

you have as to whether they were considering his death prior to

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 82

202: 864 6000

1

10

11

1::

14

15

16

1'1

1x:

19

20

COND: 30+no-.a8e

22

24

2.1

25

TOP SECRET

79

learning of his doath?

Mi. lledgman. I had no, no information because it was not

the sort of thing I suppose that the Congolose officlals really

ranted to discuss with a representative of a foreign government.

Mr. Hides. Has there any contact between our acting

Baso Chief in the Katanga Province and the officlals In Katanga?

Has there any discussion batwoen them or communication that you

know of ragording what would bo done with Patrica lumumba?

MI. Hodgman.

No. The only thing that I would imagine

would have happened is they would havy trind to arvine both

Washington and Leopoldville of any Informarion they. had on what

happoned to him.

Mr. Wides. Excuse me. Off the racord.

(Discussion off the rocord.)

I would like to move very quickly through a

faw loose ands that pop up

as we went. along relating to your

convorsation with

and than, d'onnell and then

schlesingar, and it is really just

about. one.nuost.ion on evary

1005u end, and I want to than turn to winocut, and I don't

• think that will take very long, and then the nossibility of

conversations with the Embagsy. And I would like your help

on that part since I was not there yastarday. hut l will

leave that for the last, and you can pick up with any loosa

ends.

Is that all right with you?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 83

1

sagara Staras

6

9

10

11

12

1".

1÷

15

16

1'

19

a F49' 54-001,5

E., roaringion, a l tond)

21

2:

23

25

TOP SECRET

80

Mr. Dawgon. Fine:

Mr. Baron.

Mr, lodgman, I would like to pick up here

for a moment with a sarles of short, loose ends from the

axamination that we have done

far.

Mr. Hadgman. I will try to do my best.

Mr. Baron. That is, firet of all, when you discussed

your convorsation with the then-Del, schlasingar, you said that

you indicatod to him verbally that you had baon asked to

participate in

an assagaination of Patrico Lumumba, Did ho

respond when you made that indication to him?

Mr. Hedgman. May I go back? I think i made

it to him.

It is concalvable that. I could have mado it to Bill Colby as

his Exocutive Director, or that thu two could have been present

together. It is ridiculous, but i cant pin this one down in

datail.

Mr, Baron. Did you recalve a responsa from Schlesinger?

You mentioned yesterday that he was able to ba quito sphinxlike

when he wanted to, and you thought that this miht have been

one of those situations.

Ar. ladaman.

I had the impression he took lt all on boardi

and did

not necessarily wish to advise me of what action he

planned to taka.

Mr. Baron. Has there any follow-up?

ir. Hesignan. lither he or colby, which over ft was.

Mr. Baron, Has there any follow-up from either schlesinger

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 84

tape

30

2'a 8.05!

2

9

10

11

14

15

16

1'1

1 r

14

20

2Y

2"

24

25

TOP SECRET

81.

or colby aftor you had given them this information?

MI. lledgman. I do not recall.

Mi, baron. Did you over discuss the assassination mission!

with

anyone in the Inspactor caneral'o Offico at the CIA?

Mr. Hedgman. Not to my incollection.

But it is concalve

able thuy could have sant - during that period, there were a

numbor of diacussions with Inspactor renerals on various aspecta

of work and so on.

whather there was a discuanion of this

subjoct, i don't recall it. So 1 doubt it, but I don't know.

MI. Baron,

On a numbar of discussions that you had with

the Inspoctor Ganeral's Offico?

ME. Hedgman.

On many other subjeces, totally unrelater!

to this, personnel matters.

As you racall, Dr. Schlesinger committed a very sharp

reduction in force, which rosulted in personnal problems and

Inspector Generals' Invastigations, and so forth.

Mr. Baron. Were you interviewed by anyone from tha

Inspector General's office in the preparation of thair Report

In 1967 on asgassination efforts within the CIA?

Mr. Hedgman. 1967?

Mr. Baron. Yes.

Let no reprasant to you that at the request of the Del.

tha

Inspector Ceneral's Office propared a Report In 1367 on

any involvament that ClA had or could he concoived to have harl

with assangination efforts. Wure you interviewad in connection

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 85

1.

06: 0003

д10Fa0!

TOP SECRET

3

with that Report?

Mr. Hedgman.

When

-- you don't remember the date of the

Report?

Mr. Baron. I bellave the date was in May of 1967, and 1t

was prapared by Scott Brackinridge and Mr. Farman and Mr.

8

10

1:

1÷

15

15.

1:

19

20

2.1

28.

2:

25

Mr. Hedgman. Yes, I know them all. I don't bollove so.

but I was abroad at that time.

MI, Dawson. Was the slgnificance of the date in 1967 ol

any aruat moment?

Mr. lodgman. I was abroad at the time. I didn't roturn

to the Statos until July, I ballovo, of 1967.

Ме, Пагол.

Returning now to your discusalong with

when he came to the Congo, to give you lethal

blological agents for

the assassination of Lumumbo, was It

clear at that tlme that the means for administering those

biological agents was

to injoct them into a substanon that was

to be ingested by lumunha, whether it be food, or dilnk, or

toothpaste, or any other substanco that was to ha Ingeated?

Ms. Hedyman. That's my recollection, yor.

Ir. Baron. You mentioned that it was your hast rucollectibn

brought the lothal biologieal agents with hin.

that

13

that correct?

MI, Hadoman.

Yes.

Mr. Baron.

And

you mentioned yastarday that you believe

hit:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 86

10

11

12

1:.

14

15

16

17

1%:

19

21.

21

22

23

24

25

There were not.

Mr. Baron.

Here there any Customs chocks at that polat?

Mr. Hedgman-

I can't recall, but li so, they wore very

limited.

MI. BarOn.

When you spoke with

did you

ask him iow long the lethal biological agents would retain their

votency?

MI. llerigman.

I heliave there was a conversation to that

00. 06 30001

1

2

TOP SECRET

brought them with him in his bag.

Is that right?

Mr. lodgman. I have a racollection that they were

in a.

what do you call those small carry-on hags like your pan im ban

or sabina bag or somethin

like that.

Mi. Baron. It would not have been difficult for

to have gotten such aquipmant into the condo at that

time, would it?

Mr. Hadgman. No.

Mr. Baron. Were there axtenaive Cuntoms checks in the

Congo at that time?

"r, Haron. Do you recall what he said?

Ir. Hedoman. I think it was fairly short, some months.

Mr. Baron. They would bo lethal only for a fairly short.

period of tina?

Mr. Hellyman. Yes.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 87

BIA GOO

TOP SECRET

84

MI. Baron. A parlod of some montha?

Mr. legman. I think it was less than that, but i cannot

ba cortaln.

That 1s, I romember baing surprised, thinking that

limits carton possibilitles rinht thorn.

Mr. Icon. And you sald earllar that you took the

G

I poleons iners dals at the station. When dld you take the

? ¡ polsons outor the sale?

MI. Magman. I cannot really recall that.

Mr. Bon.

Did you take them out on nore than one

occasion?

10

11

Mr. Illgman. No.

1::

.: .

1:.

1r. Iton. And that occasion was --

HI. Mylaman. No. I say no. Not to the best of my

1÷

recollectio. I want to stress that because lt is so long agu

15

that I am amost certain I did not.

15;

Mr. Iron. And the occasion when you did take the

1:

polsons ougof the safe was when you disposed of then?

Mr. Hagman. Yes.

1%:

Mr. Aron. And can you describe the circumstancos?

1!

121;

:::

Mr. Adgman, I think that I took them out probably in

a briefcase or an alr bag of some sort, and I bellove

that

the thingslike the rubber gloves

and the mask wure thrown away

2P.

in a bushyared or something whare, you know, If they ware

found it don't matter that much. I beliave l buried the

other marks.

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 88

1 .

]

6

7

10

11

1:

TOP SECRET

85

Mr. Baron. The blological agents?

Mr. lodgman. Yas, although they, by that time they would,

the potency would have expired.

But, they didn't soem the sort

of thing -I didn't know enough about it, and I will be damned

--

in --

I wanted to leave

them lying around.

Mr. Baron. Was this out by the conto Rivar that you

¡burled thase things?

MI. Herlaman. Yas, yas, I chink. You know, it is my

racollaction.

Mi. Baron. Has this aftar the arrest of lumunha, aftor

Lumumba had already heen placed in protuctiva custody so to

5 peak?

14

15

16

1? 4

! e:

1'9

1'1

27.

24

25

Mr. Hedgman.

ly the Congolese, you mean?

Mr. Baron. Yes.

Mr. ledgman. Yes, I would think so.

Mr. Baron. And was it possibla that you waited until

aftor Lumumba's death to dispose of those poisons?

15. Hedgnan. That's possible. I don'e remember.

Mr. Baron. But you

15, ledgman. They were low overdue, whatever it was,

think, because I believe

Mr. Baron.

Yesterday you stated that it was your recol-

lection that you had not disposed of the poisons until Lumumba

was succussfully neutralized, either by arrest or by death,

and you cou

fy which.

no recollection?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 89

barno (Arma 707

r.

a 10

TOP SECRET

Mr. Hadgman. I think that probably would ho a fair

8 6

6

—===

statemont.

Mo, Baron. Did you discuss the assaanination misgion

with DI. lester

llouk?

1I. lodginan. Never. I am suito surn now.

MI. Baron. He was your branch Chief at that point?

Mr. Hedgman. lle was.

Mr. Baron. Did you discuas it with Glunn Flolds?

MI. llergmas.

I don't rucall. llo was Acting Chief and

Daputy Chief.

Mr. Baron. Do you recall discussing the angaggination

mission with anyone

else at the station or in the congo other

than the ond asset?

MI. Hedgman.

NO.

commenting on this to --

1i;

11

12

1%.

13

1r.

!"

1's

: i

22.

25

I remember hearing pe. O'Donnell i

03

03

1r. Hedgman. I believe

it was

and I was

shocked

and surprised, because I thought this was

not the

sort of thing that he should discuon with officers who were

not

"involved in this.

Mr. Baron. What was?

joh at that time?

Mr. Hedgman. He was

under non-official cover and an

agont handler, or not necessarily just the agents, but

devoloping contacts.

MI, Baron. And what's his full name?

TOP SECRET

3.

---

## Page 90

TOP SECRET

87

mons (9186 203) 342-6000

]

6

r..

9

10

11

1?

13,

14

15

1G

Mr. Hedgman.

Me. baron, that dld you hear L'donnel aay tof

Mo. Madgman, I don't remembar exactly, but in any casa

it raferred to something about removing Lumumba from -- l'm not

sure whathor it was ansassination or neutralization, but whatever

it was, it saamad to ma ho had jona too far.

Mr. Baron.

And had gone too far bocause it convoyed the

idea of assassination?

NI. ladaman. Probably, but i cannot bo sure.

Mr. Baron. You indicated earller that in mid-September

there was a coup which affactively limited lumumba's powers in

the Congo?

Mr. Hodgman. That is correct.

Mr. Baron. And this would have bean very shortly after

isited you in the Congo and gave you the instruc-

tion about assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. ledgman. I can't be sure whether it was bafore or

after. That was the 14th of September, that coup took place;

but as you will recall, I cannot be absolutely certain of when

I think it was before that, but I cannot

4305.011

0010.00:09. 06 10001

19

21

22

2:

24

25

sure.

MI, Baron. But it is quite possiblo, isn't it, that the

coup could have been a major reason why thare wasn't any more

vigourous action on the assassination front?

Mr. Hedgman, That's possible, yes.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 91

JOPI

:

210 & 041

R.. Managion, D 6.1000)

TOP SECRET

88•

1

2

6

7

9

11

1::

14

16

1:

14

20

21

22

25

2-1

25

MI. Baron. Is that --

MI. lodgman. And I have speculated on that carlier.

Mr. Baron. Is that a strong possibility to you?

MI. lodgman. I just couldn't put it, because i don't

know what tho polloy makers, the political leaders, the

Prosident, tha Diroctos, what the Director's policy, the sonior

axecutive, anyway, wore thinking at that time.

Mr. baron.

And you mentioned that Justin D'Donnell was

not particularly active during his period of servico in tha

Congo?

Mr. lledgman. Is did not seom as active as many of the

other people that I had working for mo at that time.

Mo. Baron. You didn't coly upon him for major oporations

or activitios at that point, did you?

MI. lledgman.

No. Well, this - he was sent out more or

less on a special mission, as I underatood it, and I left him

fIce for that.

Mr. Baron, You

indicated yesterday, and I would like to

know if this is still your impression, that the fact that Justin

might not have boen active on the assassination

mission may not have bean dus to any lack of priority for that

miasion, but due more to hla personal habits of inactivity?

Mr. Hedgman.

Perhaps I don't want to mallan justin;

don't mean that -- shouldn't have commented on his character or

his personal habits, really, I just have tho impression he was

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 92

328-4.000

2

6

9

10

11

12

14

15

16

1'7

19

20

21

2'2

24

25

TOP SECRET

89

not putting his whole heart and soul into the effort. He was

an officur with a reputation for being gung ho and a very hard

worker when I had known him previously, some years proviously,

and ho seend quite, cortalnly did not seem that way to me out

there.

Mr. Dawson. Did you comment on that to the Agency?

Mr. liadgman. I doubt it, but I cannot bo sura.

MI. Dawson. Here you wilting his efficiancy revort at

Cha tima?

Mr. Hodyman. He didn't stay long anough for me to write

an afficiancy roport. I could have written one it he stayed

the 90 days or more, and as the COS 1 could have uritten ore

if l'd wishod.

Mr. Dawson. But you chose not to do so?

Mi. ledgman. I chose not to, to the bast of my rocollec-

tion, I did not.

Mr. Baron. Did much of the cable traffic which you

recolved from leadquarters in relation to the assassination

mission subsequently become destroyed?

Mr. ledgman. It is my recollection that before leavin

tho Station and turning over to my successor that I destroyed

that. 'arhaps well before, I just can't put a timeframe on

it, but it seemed to me it was not the type of correspondence

co leave lyiny about a Station.

Mr. Baron. You indicated yesterday that you had recoived

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 93

рои gat 1 A186

30t1 346.4000

-.

r.

r.

2

6

7

9

10

11

12

13 1

1',

15

16

1°7

14

19

2U

21

2%

24

24

25

TOP SECRET

90

some kind of Instructions to dostroy that cablo traffic.

MI. Hadgman. I think I -- I cannot recall oxactly what

I said Yesterday. Now, when I am trying to be as preciso as 1

can on the record here -=

Mo. Baron.

Please do.

Mr. Hedgman. I think I did, but i cannot be cartain.

cannot be absolutely. I don't know whether i did.

Mr. Baron.

Hould you have ruceived those instructions

verbally from,

or as part of one of the cables?

Mr. Hedgman. I don't know.

Ar. Baron.

would it ba standard

proceduro for a Chiot of

Station to dustroy cable traffic relating to an extremely

sensitive operation like that one?

Mr. ledgman. Hell, it is standard procedure to keap your

cable files and all other files as small as possible, because

copies of those are rotainod, of all massages are normally

retained in Washington. You try and keep as small a number ag

possible on hand so as to permit you to continue working so that;

you have ready reference, becauso you

may have to, in an

anuryancy you may have to burn all of your communications.

And balisva me,, when you have to yo through a burn

sassion, it la very difficult, and it takes time.

Mr. Baron. Had

you evar in your experience as Chief of

Station in the Congo destroyed othor cable traffic bacause of

its axtramoly sunbitivo nature?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 94

agnoidens 207) 528-6000

2

5

6

7

8

...

•no?

PaUL

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

18

2U

21

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

91

- Mr. Hodgman. No, I don't think so. I don't recall doing

B0. But I dostroyad a graat deal of traffic, because the Congo

was a highly sunsitivo ared in which - at one parlod I recall

wa had all of our files in the burn barrels. I mean, when you

wantod 'à file, you went over

and dug it out of the burn barral.

Mr. Baron. Dut the cablo traffic ralating to the

assassination mission wasn't destroyad as a routine matter

because

It was excoss traffic, but because of Its extramely

sansitive nature?

Mr. lledgman.

No, that's correct.

Mr. Baron. Did you have any discussions of the aasassina-

tion mission with anyone at the U.S. Embassy?

Mr. llodgman. No, I did not.

MI. Baron. Did you aver discuss the prospocts of

assassinating Patrice Lumumba with the Ambassador in the Conjo?

MI.:

liedgman. I am quite sure I did not.

Mr. Baron. Off the

record for a moment.

(Discussion off the .record.)

Ar. lodgman. May I say for the rocord that relationshipa

with the Inbassy were excoptionally good. There was almost,

or;

so friction, or sense of compatition between the ciA Station int

the Embassy. The Ambassador war extremoly cooperativa,

frlondly and understanding.

MI. Baron. Who was the Ambassador at that time?

Mr. legman. Clare li. T imbarlake.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 95

TOP SECRET

92

Mr. Daron, Did you ever diacuss the Lumumba assassination

3

6

8

9

10

1)

1:

13,

14

15

16

1'1

1*

15

1108r1:

S.€..

21

22

23,

24

25

plan with

Mr. ledgman.

Not to the best of my recollection.

Mr. Baron.

ATOOK EVOG 1S & CIA officer, 1s that

03

cortect?

Mr. lladgman. Yaah.

I know him.

Mr. Baron. Old you have any officed business with enokin

barawhile you were in the Congo?

Mr. liadyman. Yes.

lia came through on a counterintelli-

ponce mission, and I don't recall the dotalls at this timo.

Mr. Baron. Do you recall whether he had mentioned that

his mission rolated to Project ARRIFLE or the development of

an Exocutive Action capability?

Mr, lledgman. No, I do not Iscall that.

MI. BaIon.

Hould his project have related to obtaining

codes by surreptitious means?

Mr. lodgman. I think it would have been more nearly that,

but 1, I cannot affirm this as the case. That was what I think

was probably the cage.

Ho, Baron. Hould his project have involved an asset who

was already in the Congo named DJilY?

Mr. Hedgman. I gather from what was said yosterday that

thia was the case.

I do not recall ir.

Mr. Baron. Have you avar heard of --

03

Mr. Hadaman.

And houricame from where ho indicated,

TOP SECRET

4.

---

## Page 96

Engro (9102 207) 144

r.

..

'net

- Pasmingion, DE. 2000}

1

2.

5

• TOP SECRET

93

you indicated yastarday QJWIN camo Erom, and

Thad bean

thore with -

Mr. Baron. This is a country in Europa?

MI. lodgman. Yes, therefore it's logical.

Mr. Baron. Have you aver hoard of Projact ERRIFIF?

Mr. lodgman. Yesterday.

Mr. Baron. Yestorday was the firat time you heard that

1]

1:!

13

1÷

15

16

11

11:

1'9

21)

2:1

24

25

Mr. lladgman, I think so. And yostarday, I might

spocify, was hate.

Мг. Вагол.

Being Inforned by the Committas staff?

Mr. Hadgman. Yes.

Mr. Baron. Have you aver heard of Exacutive Action?

Mr. ledgman. I have heard those, that term used, and 1

don't quite -- I think more in nawspapers or more recently than

in the past, but it is posgible that I heard it.

MI. Baron. Is Executive Action used at the CIA as a

euphemisin for asgassination of

foreign leaders?

Mr. Hedgman. It has baen so alleged. I never heard any'or

• to

my knowlodge use it.

Mr. Baron. Nare you aware of a Projoct at tha CIA to

develop maans - strike that.

To dovelop the capability of carrying out assassinations

of fordign loaders?

Mr. Hedgman. Not until I talked with the Committee stalf

TOP SECRET

---

