# 157-10014-10133

## Page 1

157-10014-10133

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10014-10133

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

07-M-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

SSCIA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 03/25/1976

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY

COMMITTEE BUSINESS

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: CCBOX 324

N9.1

50955

DooId: 32423521

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Date

Page

08/07/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

157-10014-10133

RECORDS

SERIES

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

07-M-39

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

SSCIA

FROM

TO

TITLE:

DATE: 03/25/76

PAGES

40

SUBJECTS : SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY

COMMITTEE BUSINESS

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/05/99

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : CCBOX 324

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32423521

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET

NATIONAL SECURITY INEORMAFION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject

to Criminal Sanctions:

Vol. 2 OF 3

The Huitrd States Sruate R2873

Report of Proceedinge

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect

to Intelligence Activities

Thursday,

March 25, 1976.

Washington, D. C

(Stenotype Tape, and Waste turned over

to the Committee for destruction).

NW 50955 DocId:32423521 Page 3

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E:

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

ARD/smnl

TOP SECRET

1

COMMITTEE MEETING

2

3

4

Thursday, March 25, 1976

United States. Senate,

6

Select Committee to Study Governmental

7

Operations with Respect to

8

Intelligence Activities,

9

Washington, D. C.

10

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:43 o'clock

11

p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church

12

(Chairman) presiding.

•13

Present:

Senators Church (presiding), Mondale, Huddleston,

14

Hart of Michigan, Morgan,

Hart of Colorado, Tower, Mathias.

15

Baker and Schweiker.

16

Also present: William

G. Miller, Staff Director; Frederick

17

18

19

20

A. 0. Scwharz, Jr., Chief

counsel; and charles Kirbow,

Elizabeth Culbreath, Michael Madican, Charles Lombard, William

Bader, Ted Rolson, Burt Wides, Walter Ricks, Rick Inderfurth,

John Bayly, David Aaron, Elliot Maxwell, Joseph Dennin,

21

Margaret Carpenter, Martha Talley, Paul Wallach and Jim

22

Johnston, Professional Staff Members.

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NW 50955 DocId:32423521 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

2

2:

PROCEEDINGS

The Chairman. We will soon have a quorum. Why don't

we begin with the Recommendation No. 43 on page 77, having

to do

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

'21

22

23

24

25

My understanding

redrafted along the lines

that this recommendation has been

of the Committee's recommendations,

and

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NH 50955

DocId: 32423521

Page 5

---

## Page 6

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 7

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET

5

1

2

3

4

5

6

All right. Without

objection, then, that will be the

decision of the Committee:

What else do you have?

Mr. Aaron. We have two other recommendations.

•Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, could I be recorded

in opposition to this?

The Chairman. Yes,

Senator Hart of Colorado is recorded

as in opposition.

Mr. Madigan.

Senator, there is a proxy in opposition as

8

9

10

11

12

well.

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NH 50955 DocId: 32423521

The Chairman. Senator Baker wants to be recorded in

opposition as well.

Senator Mathias.

a very strong proxy that

I would, I think Senator Goldwater had

read into the record on this subject

at the last meeting.

Mr. Kirbow. Against

restricting any use

Senator Mathias.

I don't have a proxy with him today, but

I feel his position ought to be noted.

The Chairman. Veryiwell, then, with those particular

reservations made part of the record, the Committee will

approve the amended Recommendation No. 43.

We move then to Recommendation 45 on page 78.

Mr. Aaron. We attempted to redraft this along the lines

as we were instructed, Il believe.

As it came out, it would prohibit the subsidy of any

TOP SECRET

Page 8

WARD & PAUL

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

6

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

.24

2'5

Now, that may be too restrictive and go beyond what the

Committee intended, and

SO

therefore we wanted to raise this

here, to get a better understanding of what we were attempting

to accomplish.

As I understand.

it,

what we were -- it was not clear,

but

it is possible that what

the Committee had in mind was that

Wouldn't that takel care of it?

Mr. Aaron.

If that

is what the Committee intends,

TOP

SECRET

WARD & PAUL

that

NW 50955

DocId: 32423521 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SOF SECKEN

7

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

would take care of it.

Senator Mondale.

Publicly attributed.

Mr. Aaron. Publicly.

Senator Huddleston:

That is getting at what really

we

are trying to do.

The Chairman. How about the balance of 45, "nor should

Well, I think that

follows and should be a part of it.

Very well:

Senator Mathias.

Mr. Chairman, I wonder, while we are in

this area, if you could refresh my recollection, whether

"grantees" in No. 44 applies

to both foreign and American

grantees.

MI. Bader. Yes, it would, Senator, under this

language,

because the Fulbright

program or the -- such government-sponsored

programs to include, too

include foreigners. As I understood

it from the discussion

O'f

the Committee, the intent here was

to ensure that public funds that were publicly devoted to

a specific purpose were

spent and that was the issue that

was involved here, was

the

appropriated funds for educational

programs be kept to educational programs and not to be used

operationally. But the

language here would certainly include

foreigners.

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NW 50955 DooId: 32423521

Page 10

---

## Page 11

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 12

TOP SECRET

9

1

2

way we have recommended

the change in 45, withcut objection

the Committee approves

Let us go, then,

the next subject, the structural

changes, the role of the DCI on page 61..

MI. Aaron. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.

We have one other

question, that would be Recommendation 47. The Committee

agreed to extend -

Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me, Mr. Aaron.

question was on recommendation 14.

Senator Mathias's

The Chairman.

Were you satisfied with the answer?

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Aaron. I think: this goes to the grantee as opposed

to the institution.

Now, if it is true --

The Chairman. It is the grantee that is receiving

funds:

AN 30953

DocId: 37423521

Page 12

MI. Aaron. If you have a grantee receiving funds from

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

---

## Page 13

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 14

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 15

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 16

25

NH 50955

DocId: 32423521

Page 16

programs is much clearer.

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

HUSSELKEI

16

1

2

5

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

The Chairman. Which part do you have?

I will write a vigorous dissent on that.

Senator Morgan. May

I make a comment on that?

I'm inclined to agree, and I'm also inclined to agree

that we are

going so far in our foreign intelligence that

we are endangering the whole report, so you make that kind of

an argument on the floor

of the Senate on this and on two or

three other things.

not picking at any of them. I

am

just sort of

accepting

the recommendations of the Subcommittee,

but my reaction has been

that maybe we are getting a little

bit so far afield that we may endanger the acceptance of our

whole report.

The Chairman. Senator Huddleston?

Senator Huddleston.

: I would just say this, that the

Subcommittee has been

cognizant of that situation. I think it is

because of that that some of these recommendations are already

softer than some of us thought would be appropriate, and this

is one of the fields.

There was a considerable amount of support

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

WW. 50955. DocId:32423521 Page 18

---

## Page 19

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 20

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 21

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 27

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 28

TOP SECRET

26

13

14

15

16

17

18

I9

20

21

22

23

24

25

The Chairman. Well,

then, -

Senator Hart of Michigan.

That must be the result of a

conclusion that either they were not beneficial or they didn't

want to poison the program.

Why doesn't that reasoning apply to these others?

The Chairman. Well, I think it does, but we might as

well come to a vote on it and decide whether we want to keep

it or strike it.

Senator Huddleston.

Well, to bring it to

a vote, MI.

Chairman, I would move

that Paragraph 41 -

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, I would just kind of make

NW. 50955 DocId: 37423521 Page 28

one inquiry, I believe,

and

I already know the answer to it,

that even though we are voting on this section, I believe the

TOD SECRET

WARD & PAUL

---

## Page 29

TOP SECRET

27

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

171

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

arrangement we had previously, that is to say, that none of

this is final, and certainly not until we hear the comments

of the Agency.

Is that still observed?

The Chairman. Yes,

that is still the situation. Nothing

becomes final until the final vote is taken, and anything can

be reconsidered.

Agency.

Senator Baker. Then we are going to have comments from the

When, Bill, tomorrow?

Mr. Miller. Staff is

going to get them tomorrow afternoon

out there, and they are going to give it to us in writing, I

think, tomorrow afternoon

The Chairman. I suspect that the Agency will oppose

many of these recommendations.

Senator Huddleston.

No question about that.

The Chairman. I hope that won't be the single basis

upon which we decide for of against.

Senator Huddleston.

My motión includes, Mr. Chairman,

that we exempt

Senator Schweiker.: You say it will include --

Senator Huddleston. That will be in my motion, in 44, that

we exclude

The Chairman. All right.

The motion is made that Recommendation No. 44 be approved

with the exception that it does not apply to

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NH 50955

DocId: 32423521 Page

29

---

## Page 30

TOP SECRET

28

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

personnel coming into this country, is that right?

Senator Huddleston.

Yes.

The Chairman. Let's have a vote.

Do you want to call the roll, Mr. Miller?

Mr. Miller. Yes.

MI. Hart of Michigan.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Mondale.

Senator Mondale. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Huddleston.

Senator Huddleston. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Morgan.

Senator Morgan. No.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Hart of Colorado?

Senator Hart of Colorado.

Aye.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Baker.

Senator Baker. No.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Mathias?

Senator Tower. You missed Goldwater.

You missed Senator

Goldwater.

Goldwater no by written proxy.

MI. Miller. Mr. Mathias is in the phone booth.

Mr. Schweiker.

Senator Schweiker. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Tower?

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

N 30953

DocId: 32423521 Page

30

---

## Page 31

TOP SECRET

29

1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

Senator Tower: No.

MI. Miller. Mr. Church?

The Chairman. Aye.

Senator Tower. I don't think it is going to affect the

outcome, so I ask consent that he be recorded.

Mr. Miller. The ayes have it. It is six tó four.

Mr.

Mathias is still in the phone booth.

Senator Tower. I ask consent that he be allowed to be

recorded. It might change the outcome.

The Chairman. All right.

Let's go to 61 next.

Mr. Aaron. The next issue is on page 78A, Recommendation.

17.

€

2

regin

3

NW 50955

DocId: 32423521

Page. 31

WARD A PAIlI

---

## Page 32

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 33

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 34

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 35

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 36

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 37

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 38

TOP SECRET

36

8.

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Miller. Mr. Hait of Michigan.

Senator Mart of Michigan. Did you want a roll call?

The Chairman. Yes

Senator Hart of Michigan..

Aye.

MI. Miller. Mr. Mondale.

Senator

Mondale.

¡Aye.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Huddleston?

Senator Huddleston,

Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Moggan.

Senator Morgan. Aye.

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page

38

---

## Page 39

TOP SECRET

37

2

3

4.

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Colorado:

Senator Hart of Colorado. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Baker.

Senator Baker. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Goldwater.

Senator Tower.

No by proxy.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Mathias.

(No response.)

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Schweiker.

Senator Schweiker.

Aye.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Tower.

Senator Tower. NO.

Mr. Miller.

Mr. Church..

The Chairman. Aye.

Senator Tower.

Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent

that

Senator Mathias be recorded. It will not be changed.

The Chairman. All

right.

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

50955: DocId: 32423521 Page 39

Ms. Culbreath.

Mr.

Chairman, could I say just a word, please

sir, with regard to whether it was done by directive or requ

lation or by statute. Yesterday one of the general recommendation:

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

---

## Page 40

TOP SECRET

1

3

4

5

6

.7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

38

that we discussed and

the

staff was asked to rewrite went to

the question of any changes or waivers of Agency directives

or recommendations, and

as

considered by the Committee

yesterday. The agreement was - and if that proposal

is

one of the general recommendations goes through any waiver

of an existing regulation

or any amendment of an existing

regulation, that affected

the significant policies or programs

of the Agency, would have to go immediately to NSC and to the

oversight committee so

that

they would know.

So what I

am saying

ils

that if you had a directive and

there was a change in something like this which would be

significant, there would have to be notice to the oversight

committee and to the NSC.

The Chairman. Can we

have a vote, then, on 47. before

we go down to the Senate to this roll call.

MI. Miller. MI. Hart of Michigan.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Aye.

Mr.. Miller. Mr. Mondale.

Senator Mondale. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Huddleston.

Senator Huddleston.

Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Morgan.

Senator Morgan. Aye:

Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Colorado.

Senator Hart of Colorado: Aye.

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page

40

---

## Page 41

TOP SECRET

39

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Miller. Mr. Baker.

Senator Baker. Aye

• Mr. Miller. Mr. Goldwater.

Senator Tower. No by proxy.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Mathias.

(No response.)

Mr. Miller. Mr. Schweiker.

Senator Schweiker:

Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Tower.

Senator Tower. No.

'Mr.Miller. Mr. Church.

The Chairman. Aye.

Senator Tower. Mi. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent

that Senator Mathias be allowed to vote.

The Chairman. That

will be so ordered.

All right, let's take a short recess and come back.

(Whereupon, at 4:05. 0'clock p.m. the Committee

recessed to reconvene at

10:00 o'clock a.m., Friday, March

26, 1976.)

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

HTT 50955

DooId: 32423521

Page

41

---

## Page 42

14H7

50953

DocId: 32423521

Page

42

---

