# 157-10014-10081

## Page 1

157-10014-10081

page :

08/04/95

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

:: 157-10014-10081

RECORDS SERIES

: HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 10-H-13

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

SSCIA

GOODWIN, RICHARD

TITLE

DATE: 07/10/75

PAGES

: 61

SUBJECTS

: ASSASSINATION, TRUJILLO

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

CIA

EISENHOWER, DWIGHT

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

:UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

05/12/98

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS : BOX

3

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50955

DooId: 32423469

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Gooduri

Report if I'roceedings

2n-3/2172

ar.

EC

Hearing held before

Benato Beleot Connitten to Study Governmatal

parations With Respect to Intelligance Activities

0 :9

TOP SECRET

to'

Ohe Inited Batra Brnate

STORMATION

IT® Subject

1008)

R478

Thuraday, July 10, 1975

Washington, D. C

Stenotype Tape and Waste turned ove:

o che Committee for destruction

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E.

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(808) 844-8000

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

TOR SECRE

SONENS

TESTIMONY OF

Richard M. Goodwin.

PAGE

5

FxHIBITS

EXHIBIT

No. 1

No. 2

No.

]=A

Nº.

3= B

POR IDPNTIFICATION

10

11

21

23

F0A NTS D DA1A

ПП0

#100 -88 517989,5 %., PsRemator, D.C.70003

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

2'4

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

ANDRA LANDA HARD

л.0 0

HAN A PAIR

Apron, D.C. 86008

2

3

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

24

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Thursday, July 10, 1975

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Oparationg with Respect to

Governmental Activitles,

Washington, p. C.

The Committaa Met, pursuant to notico, at 5:02 o'clock

p.M. In Room S-120, The Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church

(Chairman of the Committal presiding,

Present: Senators Church (presiding), Hart of Michigan,

Mondale, Huddleston, Hart of Colorado, Tower, Baker and

Schwelkar.

Also presents Willlam Millar, Staff Director, Frederick

A. O. Schwarz, Jr., Chief Counsal, Curtis R. Smothers, Minority

Counsel: Charles Rirbow, Charles Lombard, Michael J. Madigan,

David Aaron, Joe Dennin, Elizabeth Culbroth and Patrick Shea.

Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

C

30 FOGI SUrPAL. S.E-

AssungiDa, D. E. 80008

forms 7971

1

2

3

5

6

7

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

2r.

24

25

TOP SECRE

20:01

PROSRRINIS

The Chairman. He will come back into order.

Mr. Goodwin, would you pleasa take the oath?

Do you swear that all the tastimony you are about to give

in this proceeding will ba the truth, the whole truth, and

nothing but the truth, so help you God?

ME. Goodwin. I do.

The Chairman. I am given to underatand that there has

Daen some problem in connection with your appearanco here today!

and that there are some notes that you have that you feal you

need for purposes of your testimony which you have not brounht

with you, In that the cage?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes, I think they might be helpful.

They

havo baon in storage for several years and I just had no access

to tham. I have to go got them out of the storage. They were

notes • my files and averything have been in storage for

several Years. I'va had no acceng to them. And they consist

of the files that I brought from the Whita House with me.

The Chairman. Have you been interviewed by membors of thel

staff and shown cartain documonts that the staff bolioves will

be partinent to your testimony?

Mr, Goodwin. I have been shown documonts connected with

the Dominican Republic and the assassination of Trujillo today.

Tho Chairman. And do you bellave that you are prapared

today to give us tostimony calating to Me. Trufillo or do you

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

БАША

• 0.К. 89098

NH

1

3

7

10

11

12

13

14

. 15

16

17

18

19

20

.21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

ballave that you need to or ought to raview those notes bafora

you give any

tastimony?

MI. Goodwin. Mall, I'm of course fully prepared to testi!

to the bast of my recollaction to any matter, and l think

probably in the case of the Dominican Republie, the documenta

have been adequate. I think thera's a good chance that 901na

through the files may vary well add nomething to my recollection

of Cuba and Castro.

The Chairman. Mall I will have Chia suggention to make.

No will take your toutimony on the Trujillo mattar today, and

then - how long will it take you to get your tiles and rovi."

then and come back fully prapared to give un your testimony on:

tha other issues?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, 1t will take a day or two. It is

possible I will not be able to got accose to tham until Monday

morning. It's kind of like trying to get to Pocatello

and find them in a warchousa, because I'm up in Rumford, Maine.

But I am sure that 1t would not take more than a day or two.

The Chalrman. So that ll the committes were to give you

that opportunity, would you than got those filas, review them.

and respond to the request by the committee that you appear it:

first of next week to tostity?

Me, Goodwin. If that 1s your wish, certainly,

The Chairman. Wa are most anxious to complete the record

and your testimony is necessary, and it would cortainly

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

3

4

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

LORSECRET

locomodate' our. need it;

"'"

" 1 ATA

would cooperate.

Me. Goodwin.''I would be glad to.

The chairmano All right.

With that understanding then, Mr. Schwars, are you

prepared to proceed with the questioning on Trujillo?

ME. Schwars. I'm sorry Mr. Goodwin that we didn'e hava

« chance to got togather. I thought ne were going to havo a

chance to do that on Tuesday, and I have not had a chanco to

speak to you but I do know some of the materlal, and parhaps

we can work on the material.

Refore we do so, could you state your full name and you:

addrass please?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

3

4

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOr

SECRET

PRESTIONY OR RICHARD MO GOODIN

ME. Goodwin. Richard M. Goodwin, 1538 Jand Streat, N.W..

Mashington, D.C.

Mr. Schwars. And au a master of course, ve tell all of

our witnesses what they no doubt know, that they have their

right to counsal, and you know that, and if you want to stop

to obtain counsel, you know that you can do that?

Me. Goodwin. I already have too many lawyers.

Mr. schwart. And you know what your conseleuelonal

rights are?

Mr. Goodwin. Mopefully.

Mr. Schwars. Now, what connection did you have with the

Dominican Rapublle In the winter and apring of 1961?

ME. Goodwin. I came Into the White House an Assistant

Spocial Counsel to the President, having worked on latin

Amorican altairs policy statamente in the procooding campadan.

I becane involved in Latin America. And fron that pariod until

I loft to go to the State Dapartmant, I was Involved on a

dally basis with Prasident Kennedy and his setivities'in Latir.

Amarica which Included what was happening in the Dominiean

Republio in tarma that I draftad contingency plans, I propared

cablos that went to Mr. Daarborn locussing on the areas that

you are interested in, and I was with him ovary day on somethini

connected with Latin America,

Mr. Schwarz, Without your turning to the documentary

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

r.

тот

#ARE

₽Д

$

n n

410 8798 517892,8.E0

1

2

3

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

2]

24

25

TOP SECREI

matorial, would

you racount for the Coumittee your understandin

of what the United States government polley toward the Dominir.

Republie was in the winter and spring of '61 and what action:

vero taken to implement that polley.

Mr. Goodwin. Mall, that polley was a continuation of thr

policy established by President Eisenhower when he, in

accordance with the vote of the OAS, voted to never - decide.!

to sever diplomatic and commerolal relations with tha Dominica:

Republia and the altdation nich you know arone wan precipitated

by the attampted assassination of Prasident Detancourt by the

President of the Dominican Republic.

So that from that point on when we came in, the feelin

was, first of all, of course that Trujillo was even more

at odds with the philosophy of the Alliance for Progress than

had bean and beyond that, having cut off aiplomatle and other

relátions, that trujillo's time:dh office vas probably. •

numbared. The principal support of the regime in that decare

which was often in great domestic difticulty had been the

concept of American support, it strangthened Trujillo agains:

his opposition.

At that point our policy became one of trying to antleli

at least, the fall of trujillo. Of course the Castro thing

was vory much in averybody's mind and the principal concern .:

the President, the one thing ho didn't want was for trufillo

to go and a Communist leador to come in.. So i think the pollo:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

C

ТАДО

• Fee Strum. R.E.

2957, D.6. 2000₴

1

2

3

4

7

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

SECRET

was to kanp up our economie and diplomatic pressure to hope

that when trujillo went, howaver he went, whether violently or

peacefully or died a natural death that the succession would

be a moderate, democratie group friendly to the interests of

the United States in the Caribbean and therefore try to keep in

touch with and help out and keep communications open with

the potential successor groups, and lt vas vary hard to

pinpoint.

Mr. Schwars. What stapa did you take during the period

of time you vare involved, or prior thereto, 18 you know

about 1t, in order to assist one or more of the diasident

groups?

Mr. Goodwin. Well, we did all sorts - everything from

polley statements, the und of USIA, the ude of economic

pressure, to maintain our network of contacts with exile

groups principally'in New York and olsewhere. A certain number

of limited covert operations, some

Dearborn

of course was one of the principals, his principal instruction

was to try to keap all channels of communication open, he was

zealous in thia because he dialiked Trujillo intensely himsel!

and falt that he ought to be alliad with these other aroups.

And I read through the sort of overall planning papers, and i

think thay falrly reflace that range of operations.

None of them were terribly effactive.

Mr. Schwarz. In connection with the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

D.C. 80008

1

2

3

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20

1: 1

22.

123

24

25

STOP SECRET

B

what, to your understanding, was the time at which authorizatio:

was provided

Mr. Goodwin. January

12, 1960, under President Elsenhower

Me. Schwarz. And that wan at a musting of the Special

Group?

MI. Goodwin. Hell, I

don't know bacause they didn't let

me in that wesk, but thare was an NSC action memoranium of

some kind which just set forth the authorization. I don't really

know the proceduro.

Mr. Schwarz. Whan wore

the

passed?

Mr. Goodwin.

I don't know. I becamo aware of eha.

C

кртя гАлда 2087 910-16

Assassinating Trujillo, of courao, a lot of people had

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

7 6

seton, D.C.20003

TOP SECRE

1

2

3

5

6

tried and most of chem, thay were all dead. It was a very

risky business. It's not the kind of thing they would vant to

try with a .38.

And I think also, I mean nobody, I think - an I say, we

had no particular anticipation that this or any other groun

would be succeasful in something that nobody had been able to

do for thirty yoars, but at any rato, those wore the backstops.

8

11

15

16

1&

19

2%

22

24

26

My knowledgo of It was on the basia of tho massago --

The Chairman. Ig there someone that can halp Mr. Goodwin

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

C

810 8 091 51r00r. 8 €

chington, 86.20003

1

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

23

24

25

ma laste

TOP SECRET

10

with the documento?

Mr. Schwara. Let's mark that as Goodwin Exhibit No. 1.

& document consisting . dated May 13, 1961 and headed

Mr. Goodwin. This in the paper that they sent no and

that'= where, I guess, I found out about 1t.

(Tha document referred

to was marked Goodwin

Exhible No. 1 10r

Identification. 1

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 14

1731

7096000 (90A6 N047) 9-866-661

Anand

TOR SECRET

11

20

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

(The document referred to

was marked Goodwin

Exhibit No. 2 for

identification.)

2!,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

son.

Strongi

$H. 1499099907. 0.6.20008

1

2

4

5

8

10

11

1?.

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

88.

2:.

24

25

12

Mr. Schwars. Hould you read into the record, Mr. Goodwin,

this la a memorandum for the files dated June 1, 1961, subject

Report of Point Raised at meeting with Vice President.

Hould you read into the record the second paragraph?

Mr. Goedwin. "At one point during the meeting, the vico

President asked about

can you toll ma ll this his memo I'm reading? I'd like

to know.

ME. Schwarz. Mall, there are some initials at the botton

of the page, do they help you decida whose memo 1t 187

Mr. Donnin. I belleve we wore told by secretary of state

Rusk that 1t'= Under Secretary of State Johnson. That's what

the U stands for.

Ms. Schwars. Did you make that statement, Mr. Goodwin?

Mr. Goodwin. I don't remember making it. It 18 an

inaccurate statement, and there was a clear record that it

would be inaccurate in documents that I had already seen.

I thought that I wouldn'e have made de. I had no purposs in

making it. And this 19

The Chairmas. What is the inaccuracy of this?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

94996 (9196 982) 977-40

74 A DO G 35 206.

$10 0 0N S0901, 31, M021-p107, D.C.80001

TORSECRET

• 1g

2

3

10

1 :

n2 pa i N

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

don.

PAND A

2108221 S+0074, 3 8. 14949-489074, D6.

20003

1

2

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1₴

1'9

2:

22.

2.

24

21

TOP SECRET

,: 2905

14

Mr. Coodwin. I may have known. All I . my first

knowledge was this document, the timetable that I requesterl

I don't know any more than that.

Mr. Schwarz. All right.

Mr: Goodwin. Thie le my source of knowledya. I may have

Inarnod more mubsequent to 1t 11 Dearborn pinpointod it.

Mr. Schwarz. In addition with dealing with Dearborn.

Mr. Schwarz. Now I would like you to tastify in answer to

a series of questions as to what you ware or were not told.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

Popes (9r949 74679.

#10 5 0x1 StrA. SE, 1919ra941, D.E.Y900s

TOP SECRET

13

1

againat Trujillo. Aut they, of course, were interested In

assassinating trujillo, Involved as they were in a very life

and death atruggle, thelr familias were being alaughtered

10

11

12.

17.

14

15

16

17

1t

19

21:

*1

by blockading the

road and shooting ME. Trujillo as he was vialting his mistress.

And that thay intended to do it whether of not they receiver

2:

24

21

Mr. Goodwin. I was informed that both this and other

groups Intanded and wanted to assassinate Trujillo. We got

reporta of assassinationa about to occur almost evary two or

three weaks in the White louse. There is a long gap between

wantina to kill Trujillo and being able to do it, and - but.

at all times, continually, up into May, there was the very

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

=.

A10 E 0s1 54:0M1, 5 8, Mastongton.

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

. 13

14

15

16,

17

18

19

20

¿1

2%

21

24

25

TO SECRET

1,95

16

Mr. Schwarz. I'm going to come to that. I want to know

what you were informed about the intentione of the diggidents.

You didn't answer my quastion. You said you vere fraquently

informed about assassination plots all over the world, but

specifically with respect to the Dominican Republic, were you

or ware you not informed that the Agency had been told by che

dissidents that they intended to accompliah the assassination

of Fidel Castro -- excuso me, of Trujillo --whether or not

thoy recalved the

Mr. Goodwin. I was told that afterwards by Dearborn.

wasn't told that particularly at the time, although that

wouldn't surprise me if they said that. By the Agency, you

mean Daarborn, or -

Mr. Schwarz. I mean the Central Intelligence Agency.

Mr. Goodwin. They communicated directly with the Agency

in this ingtance?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 20

-

1080071 S4•

441. S$, 094909467, D.C.5900)

TOP SECRET

17

1

2

3

4

6

7

8

10

11

12.

1]

14

15

16

17

19

Mr. Schwark. Has It your impression that Dearborn as

in charge of the Dominican Republle

Mr. Goodwin, My impression at the time was that the

inatructions given to Dearborn ware carried out, and all

Instructiong from the President went to Dearborn.

Mr. Schware. Apart from inetructions from the President,

was it your impression

that Dearborn was in charge of the

Dominican Republie.

Mr. Goodwin. My impresaion was that Dearborn was in charne

of the Dominican Republic, subject to very close supervision

fron Hashington.

The Chalrman. Dearborn was the -

Mr. Goodwin. He was the Consul. We had no formal

relations.

The Chairman. He was the Consul?

Mr. Goodwin. Right.

Hasn'e that true?

Mr. Schwarz. The paper racord makes it look quite likely

2%

* 4

21.

Mr. Goodwin. They should have told the President. Ve

sunt all of our messages to nearborn.

TOP SECRET

!

---

## Page 21

0.00

TATES I PA 679

230 Forst 59-008, 5R Mast-09407, 62.C.10003

MTOPISECRET

18

1

2

3

MI. Goodwin. I don'e remember, but de's in hare somewhere

in the paper.

(Pause)

Mr. Schwarz. Well, let me cut through the question.

6

*7

10

1l

12.

14

15

1€

17

18

19

Mr. Goodwin. I know now.

Mr. Schwarz. Did you know about 1t?

Mr. Goodwin.

No:. I knew, whan the dasue arose in May

that to had

but the precise

mathod by which thay were brought in I never asked about.

The Chaliman. I am having a little difficulty following.

He bogan with your haing told that it was the policy of

the previous Adminiatration to ancourage dissident groups ani

do whatever possible to isolate or to undermine and bring down

the Trujillo regime. Then, following the Inauguration of

President Kennedy

*:

2%

24

26

President Kennody had been

that obviously had occurred after

Inaugurated.

Whon did you flist

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

1

2

3

learn?

Mr. Goodwin, On the 13th of May when wa requested from

the inite llouse a briefing paper

Mr. Schwarz. Now that briefing paper was requested from

7

whom?

10

1]

12.

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

2':

2:

22.

23

24

25

Mr. Goodwin, Well, it would have been requested by me for

the President.

Mr. Schwark.

Mr. Goodwin.

The Chairman

been Identifiad for the record?

MI, Goodwin. That 1s correct.

The Chairmar. 1l1 right.

and that brlaling paper has

oot.

was:80n. D.C. 20009

*TOP SECREI

19

Has it then your understanding that this was President.

Kannedy's policy?

MI. Goodwin. No.

The Chairman. Then what did you do when you received

that information?

Mr. Goodwin. It I may go back for a moment, Senator,

and that is the brialing paper involved a very clear distinction

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

p.

5urr0r.5€.1

потат, Д.С. 2000₴

Tol

SECRET

20

6

B

10

11

12.

12

14

15

16

17

18

19

21

2%

25

Our response to this briefing paper was immediately to

try to ravlew our entira policy toward the Dominican Republic

and preparo, Which no did over the next couple of weeks,

instructions to the Consul about the nature of fúture relations

with dissidents, because the President falt that thiga

might do gotting out of hand, with what was happening in the

Dominican Rapublic.

So we dia prepare that paper. The President had, as I

said, two graat concerns. He didn't want anybody trying to

push Trujillo over unless he knew what was going to happen

next, because he would much rather have Trufillo in there than

a Communist': loader. And secondly, that the United states

not be associated with any kind of violent overthrow. And in

the tologram that was

The Chairman. All right.

Now when the President told you that those were his

two concorns, what action was then taken to implement tho

Presidant's polley?

Mr. Goodwin. The action that was than taken was to taka

and sot aside the original Instructions from the stato

Department and at the President's instructiong, I typed up the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

70ans 1Auos 9021 829

2110 8 t01 S6r084,S8. MasA Mass mosTa, DE. 30003

TOR SECRE

21

1

2

3

4

5

6

talogram which in here in my handwrlting, which was to go and

did go, alightly revised to -

Mr. Schwars. All right. Let me mark the one in your

hand as Exhibit 3.

8

(The documant referred to

was marked as Goodwin

Exhiblt No. JuA for

identifloation. )

11

12

14

20

21

28.

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

TOP SECR

22

1

2

3

Mr. Schwars. Well, lat'a mark than, Mr. Goodwin • you

know how to do thin as wall an I do. Make them J-A, J-D and

3-C.

6

7

8

$10 8 586 $1-004, 58, Mp20-9164, D.E.20003

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

2%

2%

24

25

Mr. Goodwin. In which I personally added in the course

of rawilting -

The Chairman. Can you identify in the Senators' hooks

vhere these documente appear?

Mr. Schwarz. Whore 1a 3-1?

Mr. Goodwin. This is 233 at the bottom.

(Pause)

This xerox of my saw, parsonally typevritten dralt appeara

page 237. That's my very bad typiny and handwriting.

And then pago 256 1a the final. And the same page, 242.

page 237 and 242.

The Chairman. Is 242 the final varsion of the message

that want out?

Mr. Goodwin. Yes.

The Chairman. Thia 1a for Dearborn from State?

Mr. Goodwin. That's correct.

The Chairman. And by whom was the messages signed?

Mr. Goodwin. Probably the Secretary, I guess, but they

are both my drafts. I recoived a draft from the State Depart-

mant, discussed it with the President, and at his inatruction

propatad this redraft. I never would have overridden the state

Dupartment on my own, and adding to it two major points aside

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

t..

110806: StePH. 58, that-8799, D.C. 2000)

1

2

3

4

6

8

OP SECRET

•te,

23

¿rom rewording It. the firet one la on a different matter, and

the second one was to say in the final version, "However, we

must not run the risk of U.8, assoclation with political

assassinations, since the United States as a matter of general

polley cannot condone assassinatione. This last principle 1a

overriding and most prevail in doubtful aítuationa."

That was insertad at the instruction of the President.

a much strongor statement of that than oecurs in the state

Department draft, and 1t finishes again with - lt says,

"Cloarly, st the present time we are unable to

"-Na fool that the

would surve

very little purposa."

10

11

1?

13

14

15

(The document relerred to

was marked Goodwin

Exhibit No. J-B for

identification.)

2:

2.:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

Дила 7001

д ra

. 31. 104-916, DE.70009

1

2

3

10

11

1?

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

27

26

TOP SECRET

24

The Charman. Now you saw this telegram and approved it

bafora it was sent by state?

Mr. Goodwin. I wrote it.

The Chairman, But you said that the state Department

changed the language.

Mr. Goodwin. No. They had prepared an original dealt.

which I changed and redrafted. Now that 1e here too, includinn

a note from them saying that I wasn't satisfled with thele

draft.

The Chalrman. so this was your own massage, then; that

you bullavod accurately reflected Preaident Kennedy's policy?

Mr. Goodwin, It was prepared at the specific inatruction

of the Prosident, It was shown to him befora tranamiasion.

The Chairman. It was shown to the President?

MI. Goodwin.

oh, yes.

The Chairman. Very well.

Thon, reading the first paragraph, "The President has now

approved contingency plans discussad during your stay here

with one major exception. You are not to sequast a pro-

signed request for help from Dominican dissident groups."

MT. coodwin, I can axplain that, Sanator.

There was a proposal made in the State Department version

that has been discussed that the dissident groups, that in case!

they managod to take over the government and there was gome

kind of fighting that thay should request halp from Venezueln,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

papers (Artel

FANS

TOF

SECRET

1

2

3

7

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

26

21

22

21

2÷

25

25

columbia, a few of our allies and therefore wa ought to prepare

them in advance for auch & roquest. The President thought that

putting such a document in their hande would amount to a

declaration of war and wanted it struck.

The Chairman. All right.

Then the sacond paragraph, "He consider lt essential that

you continue to work" - wall, bafore we go on with the necond

paragraph, in the first paragraph you say, "The Presiient has

now approved contingency plans discussed during your atay here

with one major axcaption."

Now, what wore those contingency plans that had been

discussed?

Mr. Goodwin. They have them here, I bollove.. I think

this is a very thick document, where you hava a saries of

contingency plans, it discusses here. "The paramount interest

of the United States lo to assure that Castro-Commundat

alaments not take over." It says Trujillo la weak, and then it

Is an analysis of the dissidents and their intention, the

weakness of the Trujillo ragime, and it goes Into

which, I think probably - is that your principal

Intorest at thia time?

The Chairman. Yes.

Mr. Goodwin. There's an Appendlx that sets forth all the

Recommendation A of the United States,

not indtiato the overthrow of trujillo, that we inform prod.s

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 29

• CAraO POt:

tapo 5b

pr.

от.

40998 SARD, $ E- 94944-9909, D.C.7000}

TOP SECRET

26

1

2

3

4

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

29

21

24

25

dissidents that if they succeed on their own and form an

acceptable government we will be glad to come in and help them

and then the rest talke about hares ways of recognizing -

The Chairman. There le nothiny in that contingency

plan that contamplated the assassination of trujillo himsell?

Mr. Goodwin. It contemplated only the possibility chat

he might be assassinated, not that we would assassinate him.

The Chairman. But 1f he vere'assassinated, it would have

presumably buen the result of an action by a dissident group

to overthrow his regime?

Mr. Goodwin, Yes.

The Chalrman. M11 right.

Moving to Paragraph 2 in your message - the President's

message to MI. Dearborn, "No consider 1t ensential that you

continue to work to strengthen pro-u.S. sentimant among diast-

dent groups. Your work along this line has been invaluable.

Howevar, we must not run the risk of U.s. association with

political assassination, since the U.S., as a mattar of general

policy cannot condone assassination. This last principle is

ovarriding and must prevail in doubtful siruations."

Now that language, it has been suggested by some members

of the Committed that your concern hare had to do with avoldin

any relationahip that mighe lead to a dlaclosure that the

United Status had indeed an inturest in or was somahow involved

In a plot to assassinate Trujillo, Because you say, "nowaver

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

Aman 5081 9444001

perm. 0.6.20008

1

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

15

1?

2'3

2%

2!

2÷

21

TOP SECRET

405470914

we must not run the rink of U.8, association with politloal

assassination, sinco the U.S. as a matter of general polloy

cannot condone assasaination. Thia lant principle in over-

riding and must prevall in doubteul situations.*

Now don't those words at least convey or land themselves

to

the interpretation that your primary concern was that the

United States should not get caught?

MI. roodwin. Wall, I don'e hellave so, senator, because

I think, to me, the plain meaning of che vords and as i

understood it was that we must not run the risk of u.s.

association with political assassination. That means not

be associated with the process of political assassination in

any form.

Sanator Baker. Mr. Chairman?

In that same vein, 1f 1 could interrupt for just a second,

1s lt true -- and would Counsel prompt me -- that the

had

already bean dispatched?

Senator Schwalkar, What's the date of this talonran?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

7 REVERE

ITOP SECRET:

28

1

Sanator Bakar. This man juat before the assassination,

two days before the assasuination.

7

8

10

1?

14

€

1}

a 590004. 8€., 1294-78705, D.C.J000)

20

21

2%

23

24

25

Mr. Goodwin. Trufillo travalled with bodyguards in a

hravily armed car.

Also, if I might add, Senator =

The Chalrman. Just to understand what you have said,

8

the author of this instruction and having conferred about.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

8x99 91,008.58.07381

том. D.€. 2000%

1

2

3

4

6

7

8

10

11

12

1"

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

23

24

25

51220)

484144

TOP SECRET

29

в драрою заДу довІ

it and having shown le to Prasident Kennedy, are you testifying

that it was your understanding that the meaning of that

sentence .- that that sentence was intended to convey to ME.

Dearborn a prohibition againat involving the Unitad States

In an assassination attempt on tha life of Me. TrUj1110?

Mr. Goodwin, Absolutaly. And in my firat dralt. I did it

In terma of diacloure and changed that, struck that phrase

about disclosure in ordar to make the point, and always at the

President's Instruction, to make absolutely clear to the Consul:

bacauso I used the vary word disclosure, you can see here, and

I crossed it out, in my handwritina.

Mr. Schwarr. Could you read into the record how you

changed 1t?

Mr, Goodwin. Well, It's not very prammatical, it's

ambarrassing. Also, on the xerox - I can't read the hand-

writing on the xerox.

"Ilowover wa also must not" -= something - "permit any

danger of discloßing any U.S. association with political

assassination or Intervention in the Dominican Republlo,"

It says or intervention. All that was atruck.

Senator Baker, That sounds 11ko exactly what the Chalrman

asked you. It sounds like 1t minh: be intarpretod as, plodge

don't got caught.

Mr. soorwin. Absolutely, which do why I changer it.

Sanator, to road "Howavor, we must not run riska of u.s.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 33

TOP SECRET

30

association with political assasuination mince the U.s., so a

matter of genaral policy, cannot condone assassination."

Sanator Bakor, I've got to say, and i don't mean le ee

Do critical of this witness, but on lirat roading of this

document, which was some time ago, le sounded a lot to mo 11ke

the Mission Impossible opening when they say, 1f you got caught

the secretary will disavow any knowledge of thie undertaking.

Mr. Coodwin. I wasn't familiar with the program ae this

time.

Sonator Baker, "or was I, at that time.

I need radssurance, and I think the record dons, that the

coincidance of that this cable, this wire, going out, say two

days before the assassination,

C.

#10 Fabl 514911, 5P, M11990101, 0.6..

1

3

4

5

7

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

19

18

19

20

21

2%

23

2.*

25

under

tho circumstances lt might lend itsalt to that interpretation.

This witness says it dogs not. There la no evidance to

the contrary that I'm aware of, and I don't know that we needl

to pursue the issue any further.

Mr. roodwin. If I may, Sanator =

Sonator Baker, And it also, as smothera points out, that

thora was another communication saying destroy anything you ve

got, all those communications excapt this cabla.

Мг. Лагол.

That 1s standard practice. That lo the standari!

practice for [

Ms, Goodwin. My responso, Senator, la that the carbinos

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

Ports (ArDo 7979 864-5001

C

A10 Forse 89+p0

TOP SECRET

91

2

3

5

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

181

19

20

21

25

22-1

2!

And then It was the baste of that hrlefing paper, which

obviously the Dominican Republie was not the first matter on

Prasidant Kennedy's agenda when he came into offica, on the

basis of that briefing paper, he revlewed our policy and sent.

this tolegram.

The Chalrman. And was the purpose of the telegram to call

off any further involvement by the United States government in

an assassination attempt against Mr. Trujillo.

Mr. Goodwin. The purpose was to make sure the United

Status was not involved in any assassination. The purpose was

to

slow down that kind of ovor-zealousness. The President was

not that anxious to see Trujillo thrown out.

Senator Tower. That dossn't totally answer the question.

Mr. Goodwin. Well, I'm sorry.

The Chairman, Holl, you sas, we know, from your testimony,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 35

1

that you had bear adviaad in May that cartain

transferrad to cortain dissident groups who at least had

expressed an Intarast in assassinating Trufillo.

Mr. Goodwin. Correct.

had been

5

6

10

1)

12

14

16

16

1:

110 6 071 $1-001, 5E, Mistration, D.C.20001

TOP SECRET

32

19

2'1

2:

22

23

25

Senator Tower. Woll, it saya hare in number 1, 1t says.

continue to inform dissident alaments of U.S. support of their

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

#10 + -r98894004-56. 542494099555, 1 C.7000}

1

2

3

5

6

7

9

10

11

12.

13

14

15

16

1'7

19

20

21

2r

2:

TOP SECRET:

ren

C

C..

Plactand (Auget 2007

33

position. So what, again the interpratation that can be drawn

from this la that wa don'e want to be involved, but go ahead

and have the other quys on, becausa their position would be to

assassinate trujillo, so what you are in affect doing l9 sayino.

let's don'e ba involved in it but let'e indicate our support

for what they are doing.

Mr. Goodwin. He wars indicating our support for what they.

wore doing on the basis of the estimate in the contingency

papar that Trujillo's days were numberer and whoaver took office

wa wanted to be our nan, that la corract. And so va were goinal

to support and try to retain relations and say we would supporti

which is not a difficult thing to do, as you know, any troup

that might take offica and ba moderate and pro-United Stater.

That was all wa wore interested in, was having a pro-american

government.

Senator Schweiker. Wall, there are two other

referances

hore, ME. Goodwin. Paragraph 3, "In case of assassination or

overthrow" - obviously you still had a reference thare, whether

initiated by a pro-u.s. group or not, was still part of the

planning, and then back on page 3 you say, "In actual fact, we

would sarve very little purposa and

expose the United Statos to great dangar of ultimate disclosuro

in participation in an

assassination attempt," and that is

scratched out, and says "assassination attempe," meaning that

thore was = to me - some othor plan afoot to agsassinate

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

C.

• САТФА 707) 949

1

2

4

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

19

21

26

21.

ETHEREN

*TOP SECRET

34

since the ultimate would still be disclosed if you gave thia.

So what interpretation? I mean, thia la rift here with

sassination propositions, and the fact that you have ultimate

disclosure," foar of ultimato disclosure of participation,

moant that cortainly thare was something already afoot, that

ultimately would be disclosed 1f you want ahead with this

pass through.

Mr. Goodwin. I think what we were saying is 1f wa did,

it would bo found out ultimataly, which means not right away.

but lator. In the case of assassination or overthrow, there

wara many groups, a continual flow of groups, of information.

that thore were vardous groups planning to assanainate

Trujillo.

Senator Schwolker. Well, if that's what it meant, than

why did you dolete it?

MI. Gooduin. Well, I think -

Sonator Schwulker. If that was your interpretation, why

In fact did you dalete those four words, "ultimate disclosure

of participation?"

Mr. coodwin. Could you tell ma what page you're roading

from?

Sanator Schwalker. Par 3.

The vary words that you interpret one way ware in fact

dolated, which shows to mu that you meant them another way, or

they wouldn't have been deleted, and you substitute two words

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 38

• :

-.

C

aal S4r779, SE, Mastengeron, 1DX 20100}

1

3

5

6

7

10

11

12

13

14

16

1'

18

19

20

27.

2:,

24

25

TOP SECRET

35

for 1t.

MI. Goodwin. Hall, I mean --

Senator Schwalker, So that you disgulse that.

Mr. Goodwin. Hell, the words ware deleted because they

ware words that were going to give axactly the impression you

are talking about. By talking about ultimata disclosure. g

vare afraid of being lound out and what we didn't want was any

association with the assassination attempte, so the reference

to disclosure was struck and the words association were

insertad.

Senator Schwelker. Mut you still call off - you still

laft the language, in actual fact we feel the transter of arms

would surve very little purpose and expose the United States

to great danger of association with assasaination attempts.

That still makes the point that you want to make, but you had

othor language, that says "ultimate disclosuro of participation

which implies to me you ware concerned about other things you

wore doing and things that had already boon programmed and ar

oparation that you ware as much concerned about those bainn --

or you wouldn't have changed the language to still say the game;

thing with that one distinction ahout somethinn else being

aloot. I don'e

MI, Goodwin, Noll, I changed 1t, I bollavo, Senator --

mean It's hard to be hald responsible for languana that wan

sojoctail becauso it was inaccurata. The problem was not one

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

and 1A9s 207) 16A406

$

C

c..

C.

+100884Y 89-009. 31.19029-99964, DE.ҐО009

TOP SECRET

2

3

5

7

8

36

of disclosure, the problem was we did not want to be associated

with

assassination. That's why I struck it out.

Senator Schwalker. You changed the language, but the first

part of it ramained exactly the same. In fact, wa leel the

would serve very little purpose and expose

the United States. So while you changed the language, you had

the same condition there that you were not goint to supply those

arms.

Mr. Goodwin, Ne weren't, that's correct. le wore not -

Sanator Schwalker, But why ware you not concerned about

10

the other language, because .

11

Mr, Goodwin. Decause the implication of the ocher lannuan

12

I' l was that, well, we were worried shout being found out, when in

fact what the poldey was was that we did not want to be

14

15

involved. So l struck the implication.

Mr. Smothors. Me. Goodwin, why was the communication of

16

1: 1

our withdrawing to Dearborn? The only way Dearborn could have

bean any closer to this plot would have been to bacome one of

li:

#

the dissident group. They told him everthing thay did, down

"to and including when the car was coming down the road. And

"was knew that, didn't we?

MI. Coodwin. Noll, I haven't seen any communications to

2%

us that naid that. I would not have - I mean, one of his

21

Instructions was to kesp in very close contact with these

24

li dissident groups. I wouldn't ha surpriaed if they dropper by

20

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

PAGE (AN9A

form

70 A RES

C.

#10F M79 37-999.8$.10

1

2

}

8

9

10

11

1?

14

15

1 6

17

18

8.1

27:

24

21,

TOPISEGRET

37

and if they told him everything they ware planning to do. Dut

It's a long jump botwoon saying you re going out and k111

Trujillo and pulling le off, as many peopla tried.

But I was not aware, as I can ramember, that he had any

kind of detailed information.

Mr. Smothers. Illa messages back to CIA, in fact, convay

chose datails, don'e thay?

Mr. Goodwin. Not that I saw after chla, when thase

none of than that -

Mr. Schwarz. Wall, did you know or did you not know that

the dissidente intonded to use the

and

and other materials they had themselves, but intended

to use the

we had aupplied to assassinate Trujillo in

precisely the way he was, in fact, aasaasinated? nid you know

that befora you wrote the telegram, or not?

MI. Goodwin. No, bacause what I'm rasponding to is a

roquest that says we can't do 1t

Later on they said to Dearhorn, l mean ho did tall me

that afterwards, I don't know when they told him, well, we'll

do

1t.

I mean, that

might also just bravado, or an effort to bluff us into sayina.

don't know why anyone would take on

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

M.

C

1070т, D.С. 20001

1

6

9

10

11

12

1z

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

192737383

TOP SECRET

38

wouldn't have thought that, 11 I thought

about it.

President Kunnedy went to Paria a week or two later. When

the assassination actually occurred, us ware all taken by

surprise, so that Dearborn had dotalled knowledge of when it

was going to occur, we didn't. The Vice President - he called

an aftergency meeting with the Vica Preuident, a telegram was sent

to Paria, and then the assassination ended up gatting announcel

by Piorre salinger.

But this instruction, the Preaident told me he wanted to

make 1t absolutely clear we're not gutting Involved is

assasainations.

Sanator Mondale. Mr. Goodwin, the record shows - I think

you've tostified to this = that toward the end of the eisenhower

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 42

"TOP SECRET

39

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

suggasted .

Senator Tower. Well, the naxt line says, "Continue to

Inform disaidanta of U.S, support for their posieion."

Senator Mondale. In other words, 1! I were one of those

dissidents and I qut that from the United States pursuant to

this earlier agreament, I would feel ancourager to bellove that

I had the support of the United States in killing

Trutillo, and

that no weren't exactly noutral in that, at least, our govern-

ment was not really neutral, that It ancouraged then.

r.

-pim. D.C.$000s

10

11

12

12

14

15

16

1'7

18

19

20, 11

point --

?? 1

22.

23

2241

21,

Why didn't we say or communicate to tham we want you to

stop and we don't want this man assassinated, and we want you

to know that we will have nothing to do with it?

Why wasn't that final - I just want to make one more

Tharo was a similar talegran sent juat bafore Diom was

assassinator -- now thesa are entirely diflerent mattera, and

I appreciate that - but it alwaya seems to me that it wa're

worried about human lila, if wa're worried about corractina d

policy that may have set a possibla assasaination in motion,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

.

C

norma. 0 € 70003

TOP SECRET

40

1

?.

3

6

7

the way to raally disassociate lt la to say atop, and that is

roally what I don't understand.

Mr. Goodwin. Wall, lat me say, Senator, firat of all.

that the question of assassination now 1a paramount.

in people's

minds. There la no doubt that wa hoped that trujillo would. he

ovarthrown, Not only was their no doubt, but there was a

unanimous vote of the Organization of American States that 1t

Do ostracized and sanctions imposed with the hope that lt

might happen. And that occurred avar before wa took office and

we wore in full agraament with 1t.

9

10

11

12

14

15

1r,

1'9

1t

13

::

2:

21 1

range of possibilitios. And we did, in lace, bellove that

Trujillo was going to be ovarthrown one way or another and

not necessarily, of sven in paramount in our minds, by agsass1-

nation because -- in fact, 1t would sosm at that time to be tha

most diffieult thing of all to do. He was heavily guarded and

protocted, ordinarily. They knew more about it than we did.

And when that happoned, which wa favored that happaned,

I because wa folt that the ostabllahment of a democratic regime

:. -

In the Dominican Republic was something not only banaficial to

tha United States and to our policias. I mean, when wo're

talking about Trujillo he was not - I mean, about human life,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

прирока 1 5009 2027 840-$001

-gron, D.E. P000 9

TOP SECRET:

6

10

11

17.

1÷

15

16.

1'9

13 1

2P.

21.

the man was not only a Fasciat, but he was a murderer. lle uner

to have a fraster room in the back of his house where he would

take poople and show cham the bodies of enemies.

Dut in any event, that's none of our concern, but our real

concern was that this was regarded as an Inovitability and te

wanted to bo associated with the new government.

Senator Mondule. I undarstand, but the arquent is made

with respoct to that last telagram that le was a fig lea!

telegram designed to cover our tracks should assassination occur

and you arque, and I think persuasivaly, that you intended much

mors than that, you intended to make it clear that we wore not

supporting the assassination,

ware not goinn

to be ured.

If that was our intent, and I take le that lt was, why

wo didn't we go one step further and say please communicate to

those dissidents who have every reason to believe

that we may be supporting the overthrow, including

1858

saination, that wa oppose the assassination of Mr. Trujillo.

Wouldn't that make it very clear then that we wore out of

the business?

Mr. roodwin. I don't know. It would have made it, I

suppose, classer to tham. On the other hand, I think, it's

their country, and they could deal with Trufillo as thay wantad

to.

It was not going to be us that daalt with him in. this

fashion.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 45

Thyn, (5496 898) 9160

C

820 0 062 Sorom, $ €

1+0169-7895D.6.10008

2

5

8

10

11

13

25

15,

1:

18

21

21.

TOP SECRET

Senator Mondalo, Yeah, but see, if va vera completely

noutral I'd agres with that. If thay wanted to assassinate

Trujillo that's their business. I agree with it, that's none

of our business.

But I think we were already implicated. It's sort of like

being in a criminal conspiracy and then pulling out the day

before the job is done and not talling anybody. It seams to

me you should say, boys, I'm out and I don't want you to do lt.

Tha Chalaman, I'va changad my mind.

Sanator Mondale, That's why I don't understand.

Senator Baker. It's sort of like the situation that's

bean deseribed to la whore people ware beyond control and you

couldn't communicate with them after the forces had been sat

in motion.

15. Goodwin. Hell, may I tell you, I don't know that there

eVer was any statement that those

that were authorized on

January 12th, sither in the authorization or subsequent, for

Mr. Schwarz. Well, thare were iscores of those,

and whother they raached you or not is a separate and important

question, but thare are four or live examplos of communication

Senator Mondala. Holl, you seo, that could be important.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

2100001 2-7.58-19059--8499. DE

5000 t

TOP SECRETA

4 3

1

2

4

10

11

12.

1"

14

15

16

becausa if your understanding was as you have just deseribed

then the telegram makas more sense. But d! in fact vo vare

Implicated, as I understood earlier in assassination attempts

The Chairman. Filtz, look at the way Dearhorn 18. 1

think It's vary important to understand this matter, to 100%

at the way Dearborn apparently understood the instruction. Me

was the one to whom it was given, and he wires back, having

received the inatruction, the following - now this is at Tah

s, book 2 of 2, the sacond s.

It saya -- firat of all, do you have that, Mr. Goodwin?

HI. Goodwin. Yes, I do.

The Chairman, It says: "One, I bellove we can hold pro-unitei

States dissidents, although with some grumbling on the basis

set forth." Now you're not likely to hold them it you tall

them you're no longer connected with their scheme and Mr.

Dearborn had not been instructed to tell them that.

18

19

20

2: 1

21

21

24

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 47

PApA (AN00 79P) 847-6001

1an. D.x 20003

tapoi

TOP SECRET

10

11

I read this because it suggests that Mr. Dearborn got a

1!

"different message than the ond you say you intended to send.

(A briof recess was taken.)

The Chairman. Lot's go back on the racord.

?:!

Mr. Goodwin. Wall, that paragraph, to me, Senator,

Paragraph A =- I am not sure whether his interprotation o!

instructions, or at least in spocifles, ggems to be clear.

2: 1

24.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 48

Pana (Auto 202) SA1

+105011 59-441-5-8-84914-49877, 06 7000)

TOP SECRET

45

1

2

So that I ane from that point of vlow, l am not suro,

quite clear, In what way ha misinterpreted the telegram.

9

10

21

1?

14

15

2U

*1

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 49

Пото (A49 292) 940-00204

#ДТД

21855-89 380009. 18-MorameRa, DE :000)

TOP SECRET

46

1

3

Now. I would road those words as meaning that Mr. Dearborn

anticipated at loast the real possibility of assasaination

attempts in the immediato future and that he was recommendino

5

6

9

10

11

1?

13

14

15

16

1'1

1÷

19

Mr. Goodwin, Hall, I would agree with a good part of that i

Sanator, although I think that there were assassination plots

aimmaring in the Dominican Republic and now, and of coursa this

in lact took place, And I think he was concerned that the

assagaination would be unsuccassful,

There was nothing,

I think, in the telegram that was sent to him that dandes the

possibility that trujillo might be assassinated or that there

might be an attempted assassination, which is the purport o!

Duarborn's,

24.

24

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 50

p.

3

09 mst 591741,58, MashingtOR, D6.7000}

1

2

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

29

20

::

2%

21

25

TOP SECRET

47

Mr. Goodwin. Woll I think obvlously these people had

relayed to him that they're going to try to make the attampe

lle thought the attempt

might be abortive, and it so, he thoucht that all Americans or

paople that worked for him or with him would be in danger.

Tho Chairman. Then you would have to aare with ma,

wouldn'e you, that in his opinion, Dearborn's opinion, he had

aviience that auggasted to him that an assassination attempt

was imminent.

Mr. coodwin. I think that's clear. Yer, l think it was.

Mr. Goodwin. I think that's right. That's absolutely

true, because I think ha balloved that there was a serfous

attempt in the offing, as indeed there vas, and he was absolutely

right and he was doing his job well.

I would like to say, If I might go hack, that in toims of

tho telegram, is that I sat in the office with President

Kennady who instructed me to draft a telegram to say that ha

wanted nothing to do with political assassinations, which I

did, so It's not a matter of interpretation, bacause he cannot

testify to that mattor, so lt's not a question of reading the

taxt so much as deciding whethor or not I'm colling the truth

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 51

1

2

about that instruction.

Mr. Schwarz. Assuming that you are telling the truth

Mr. Goodwin. Thank you.

Mr. Schwarz. He hava to explore whether something went

wrong in the communication process, and I want to put some

information in front of you and then see if you can halp us

explain what, if anything, want wrong.

Hould you show him Exhibit 2-^.

10

1)

1?

14

15

1G

91n9 ust Sorro. 98.80295-99984, D.F.MOOS

TOP SECREI

4 Я

1'

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

7%

•$8. 1129-9907, 06.20008

TOP SECRET •

49

6

M5. Schwarz. Thay are.

Mr. Goodwin, The telegrams say it, bue on the other hand, i

9

10

11

12

14

1€

16

1c

21.

?.:

sit

8.4

21.

I ho had astablished of any directions that he had alver, Inmediatel!

sald, you know, make it clear to Dearborn that we're not setting

, Involvod in assassinations. They can do what they want, but

are not going to get involved.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 53

торла (воДо РОД) ВАТ

...

TOP SECRET"

50

2

3

5

6

7

Sanator Mondale. In othar worde, the President was

advised by you that there was an assassination plot in which we

were Implicated and he told you that wa don't want any part of

it and you are to send a message on his authority saying that.

and that is what you thought you had done?

Ar. Goodwin. I would phrase it a little bie differently,

Senator, which is to say I would say there were people who

vanted to assassinata Trujillo

10

12

16

16:

I said, yas. He said - thin ls a paraphrago o

you know, if you know Senator Kennedy, or Preaident Kennedy,

I mean, ha said, wall, let's make it clear. And if you compar

my draft with the Stato Department draft, I was overridinn, as

they point out, bacausa their draft says, wa're tryina to get

this message through but wa're blocked by 145. Goodwin and have

to send his messago instead. They would rather blame me, of

course, than the President.

It is clear that the stress la changod to make it clear

I that the President wants

nothing to do and cannot condone

assassination. It does not say cannot condone being caught at

:: assassination, it says cannot condone assasaination. Anil I din

èu i that becausy ho told ma to do that.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 54

Mart (9184 792) 868-6000

TOP SECRET

51

9

10

1::

llo wanted to mako it absolutoly clear when he found out

17

===

that anybody who wantad to assasoinata Trufillo in the Dominican

14

Republic that they ware going to do it on their own, the

14

United States would have nothing to do with it

16.

this is why ho said wa do not want to

1: ¡ condone assassination

or be assoclated with it. And that's why

I wrote the tologram that I drafted that's in my handwriting.

1:

Sonator Towar, Well, may I ask you, then, what you

¡Interpratted the meaning of the first sentence da number 3,

"Continua to Inform dissident elementa of U.S. support lor

* :

2'%:

¡thoir position?"

115, coodwin, Thay wore -- thair poaltion was that, what

ithey rogardod as that trufillo should he overthroun and raplace!

* 1.

by a moderats govarnmant.

we supported that position, as did

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

• салак

sooner. Sl. Machination. D6

30001

TOP SECRET

2

3

5

6

7

9

52

the other mambors of the organization of Mmerican States, anl

wa wanted to make it very clear that we did support that

position, and we wished then well in their afforts to establish

that position and 18 thay did we would recognize their govern-

ment and sand them assistance, which we did.

As a matter of lact, we took much greater afforts to

got rid of Ramos Trujillo In the six months that followed the

10

assassination than anything that proceeded it, Ineluding brining

the Amorican float practically into the harbor at Culdad

Trustllo at the directior. of the secretary of Dalenso, Inaten

11

of carbines and pistols, wa brought in dastroyers, aircraft

1?.

i carriors and Marine battalions so that they would know what

¡the consoquenced night be le they aldn't set out when they not

1÷

15

1!

2:

21

Senator

Baker. Me. Chalrman, could l ask a quastion

in

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

TOT 6202 90998 At

CUUYL

TOP SECRET

: 53

1

that raspact?

The Chairman. Hell, I am not sure 1 agroo with that,

although that is a philosophical argument.

4

6

7

10

11

1:

13

14

1%

19

19

221,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

Part lANDA POT) 797 6008

$309..0t 300749,58.M087--9907, D.t.10003

TOP SECRET

34

3

10

11

1:.

12

14

15

16

1°

18

19

20

*: 1

2%.

24

1:41

25

Mr. Goodwin, No, I don'e have any deep knowledge of that

subject, what was the natural end consequence of our acts.

In any ovent, I do want to return to this.

This was -- clearly President Kennedy was much closer

to

yours.

115. Schwarz. After the Trujillo assassination took, place,

President Kennedy was in Parla and as one of the documants we

100kod at indicatas, there was a meeting at which Vico Prostiane;

Johnson was Intorasted in finding out what had happened and you

had a rovlow of this, and discussed in that revlow that tha

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

por

C.

1

2

6

9

10

11

1?.

13

1÷

16.

1k:

2'?

!: 1

24

21

TOP SECRET

55

Now, aftar that ravlaw, ware any stops taken to make, as

a mattar of more general, governmental policy, the policy which

Is oxpressed in the telegram you drafted at President Kennedy'

instruction?

Mr. Goodwin. Not to my knowlerige.

(A brief racess was takon.)

The Chalrman, Do you have any more questiona?

Mr, Schwarz. I don't have any more questions.

The Chairman. Do you have any other matters that you

can toll us about the Trujillo assassination for our onlinhten-

mant?

Mr. Goodwin. On the assassination?

The Chalrman. On the assassination.

Mr. Goodwin. I don't think so, but let me read through

all of this, and when I come back the next time, I might have

something olse, If I can find anything else in chare --I do

think this la pretty complate.

The Chairman. He will expoct to henr you again garly rext

weak, on the Cuban phase of your testimony.

Hr. Goodwin. And Duvallier.

Tho Chairman. Me, Dannin, thay've been l all nighe.

would lika to ask two quustiors.

Mr. Dannin. Hall, when you said thera ware no more

questions, I juat salsad the possibility and you digeussed it

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

870 E EAT S4:007, S.f 1015.-8'0r- 0.6.20003

6

9

10

1:

1::

13.

14

15

16,

1'7

11:

2%.

2!.

TOP SECRET

присють ( Аллорь 202)

56

about mestings hold alter the assassination back in washington

Whan Mr. Doarborn came back as well as those mastingg hald

altor the assassination bafore he came back, at which the

wholo matter was discussod, initially with Vicy President

Johnson presiding and ultimataly, the last one, with President

Kennedy.

Mr. roodwin. That's right. la had, of course, a serlas

of amergencias. We had an emergency meeting, and cabled the

Prasident who was in Paris, and the firat matter on our mind

was how to keep Ramíos Trujillo, who was the son of trujillo.

from taking over, and we didn't know whore ho was, at first.

It took un awhile to find out that ho was in Paris, which at

least indicated, Senator, that if they were planning de, 1e

wasn't done in a vary comprahenaive tashion, and we lound ho

was In Paris and we wantad to stop him from returning, to

detain him, but lt was too lato. By the time we found out, hu

had already chartored an Air France Jet and was on his way to

Cuidad Trujillo, and I believe thore was some affore mada to

bluff him off by sending messages to the plane in flight.

diverting it to some Amarican airport, but ho didn't do that.

and he landed and took over. And I think the principal aim of

our policy from that poirt on was how to yet him and his uncle.

Hactor and I forget the othar fellow's name -- out of there

so that the kind of moderats government that we wanted could

bo installarl.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 60

r.

2

3

6

8

10

11

12

1?.

14

15,

16

1'1

19

20

21

1? 4

21

TOP SECRET

57

And John Martin was sant down to talk to him and to make

various inducaments Iike he could take his money out, lt was

discussed that 1f he would laave peaceably, but what finally

happened was when

McNamara movad the fleet in over the horizon

and an 115 Force General bombed the palaco, that was the end.

he got on his boat and lott.

The Chairman, Mir Force General?

Mr. Goodwin. A Dominican Alr Force General.

lla dacided that was an easier targot than the American

float.

The Chalrman, Has the bombing done at our Instruction?

Mr, Goodwin, No, I don't ballava so.

I was trying to

ramambar that, but I don't balieve it was. As I remember,

it was quite a surprise to us that this fellow had taken the

initiative. The moving of the fleet was intonded as sort of

a threat that if they didn't get out we might come in and aut

them. There was no, howsver, no, at that point, no country

attempted to do that, just

to scars them, And the fleet was

actually cheared in the Dominican Republic, a vary rare

occasion.

But chis Air Force Ganaral did, and then ha triad to make

himself dictator and two of his own officors arrustad him. Thai

all had beon trained in Amarican military achools.

Mr. Schwarz. To complete tha racord on the rasponse to

the telegram wa had Dearborn'n saaction., la will read into

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 61

Poor (148o 7033 387-6601

+-=

giron, D 6 20003

TOP SECRET

58

6

9

10

11

1?.

Mr. Goodwin. I think It's accurate and it also raflects

1÷

1: 1

Dearborn's own disappointment that

1r.

1: M

Mr. Schwaiz.

Mr. Goodwin.

disappointment, which is understandable.

18

The Chairman.

Any further quastions?

Senator Tower?

Mr. Smothors?

:::

Mr. Smothers. Mr. Chairman, I'd rather walt till the return

-= =

of the witness.

The Chairman. Yos.

Let's make cartain that Mr. Goodwin has an opportunity to

meot with the staff so that the portinent documenta that will

21

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

§A016

1

2.

3

4

7

10

11

12.

13

14

i es

19

P'SECRET

59

up in connaction with our interrogation on Castro vill be

ravlaved. Ha're not intarasted in any kind of entrapment. He

want you to be fully awara of whatevar documentation we have

so you can halp enlighten us of your underatanding of tha

policy at the time.

Mr. Goodwin. And whatevar I bring i can give to you and

then duplicate it.

Mr. Schwarz. Wall, shall wa plan, for safety, on the

staff soeing you on Wednasday morning and having your testimony

Hednasday afternoon, or could you be here by Tuesday?

Mr. Goodwin. Hell, since I'm going to Rumford, Maine and

getting the thinga out, I think it will ba safer wednesday,

if

that's not too inconvenient.

The Chairman. Wednesday?

All right. Thank you very much.

(whereupon,. at 6:35 o'clock p.m., the hearing was recossed,

to reconvene at -8130 o'clock a.m., Friday, July l1, 1975.)

TOP SECRET

---

