# 157-10002-10087

## Page 1

157-10002-10087

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10087

RECORDS SERIES :

TRANSCRIPTR

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R-352

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM:

TITLE :

TESTIMONY OF SAMUEL HALPERN

DATE: 06/18/75

PAGES : 89

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

ASSASSINATION

CASTRO

MAFIA

SPECIAL GROUP

BISSELL

LANSDALE, EDWARD

HARVEY

OPERATION MONGOOSE

ZOGBEY

POISON

AMLASH

5412 COMMITTEE

ZRRIFLE

TASK FORCE W

MAHEU, ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50955 DocId: 32281927 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

COMMENTS :

Box 245

Folder 9

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

MH 50955

DocId: 32281927

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

2

3

4

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

The Chairman. The hearing will come to order.

I would like to ask Mr. Schwarz if he would give us

brief synopsis of what we intend to question our witness

about this morning.

Mr. Schwarz. The witness this morning will only be a

single witness.

He is Mr. Samuel Halpern.

He was in the

far East, and I have now found out he was involved infthe

Sukarno moving and some alleged killing of an agent in

Tailand, which are collateral matters that we may want to

take up with him at the end.

But he came back here in the fall of 1961 and was in-

structed as assistant to get into the Cuban matter. And

he will testify that he was told that they would proceed

to overthrow the Castro government, and that there were no

holds barred.

He will then describe the way in whch they worked

with the Special Group.

The Chairman. What was Halpern's position?

Mr. Schwarz. Halpern's position was as Executive

Assistant to Harvey. And Harvey, you will remember, was the

man that was actually in charge of the Cuban position.

The Chairman. When are we going to get Harvey?

Mr. Schwarz.

He is coming next Wednesday morning.

We are going to get some of this same conflict between

the no-holds-barred testimony, which in his mind I guess he

TOP SECRET

WW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TOP SECRET

8

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir.

Mr. Schwarz.

Who else was present at that meeting?

Mr. Halpern. LA Mr. Ghose Zogbey. He was my branch

chief.

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Schwarz.

Is he alive today, or is he dead?

Mr. Halpern. He died last year.

Mr. Schwarz. Approximately when in the fall of 1961

did that meeting take place?

Mr. Halpern. About the middle of October 1961.

MI. Schwarz. What instructions were you given by Mr.

Bissell at tht

meeting?

Mr. Halpern. Mr. Bissell said he had recently -- and

he didn't specificy the date or the time -- he had recently

been chewed out in the Cabinet Room of the White House by

borh the President and the Attorney General for, as he put

it, sitting on his ass and not doing anything about getting

rid of Castro and the Castro regime.

His orders to both

(Me. Zogbey) and to me were to plan for an operation to

accomplish that end.

Mr. Schwarz. Was any content put into the term

"get rid of", or was that the term that was used, and only

that term?

Mr. Halpern. To the best of my recollection, that was

it. There was no limitation of any kind. Nothing was for-

bidden, and nothing was withheld. And the objective was to

TOP SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32281927 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TOP SECRET

9

Phone (Area 202) 544.6000

1

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

remove Castro and his regime.

Mr. Schwarz. And did you talk about tactics at all

in that meeting, or was it just a general discussion about

getting organized.

Mr. Halpern. Just a general discussion as to what we would

do, how we would proceed, and what we would need. And at

that point I had no idea how many people were left on the staff

in the branch only having been on the job a day or a day and

a half.

Mr. Schwarz. Shorly after that time did you get put in

contact with a general?

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. General Lansdale.

Mr. Schwarz. And what was his function when you were

introduced to him?

Mr. Halpern. Both Mr. Zogbey and I were introduced

to him as the new chief of Operations for a government-wide

effort to accomplish the removal of Castro and the Castro

regime. This effort was to include not only CIA but the

Department of State and the Department of Defense.

And

General Lansdale was to be the Chief of Operations for that

outfit.

Mr. Schwarz. And did you brief him about Cuba or did

he brief you about the operation, of what was the nature of that?

Mr. Halpern. No, we briefed him first in the old

Situation Room, what used to called the Ibell Building, which

TOP SECRET

NH 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

4

5

6

S.E., Washington, O.C. 20003

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

12

Mr. Halpern. It wasn't a matter of General Lansdale's

being in charge, or the Attorney General being in charge,

nobody objected to General Lansdale reporting to the Attorney

General.

It was a matter of whether this

would be done through

the normal chain of command, of whether we would actually be

under the General's direct command.

MI. Schwarz. But it still is a chracterization, you

were dealing with organization and bureaucracy?

Mr. Halpern. That is right.

And drafting papers.

Mr. Schwarz. Drafting papers to do what?

Mr. Halpern. To try to get organized in terms of how

we would accomplish the objective.

Mr. Schwarz. Did any of those papers that you drafted

in those early stages

include any reference to assassination

as a device to accomplish the objective?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Now, did Mr. Helms enter the picture in

the latter part of December 1961?

Mr. Halpern. That is correct.

Mr. Schwarz. Describe how he came into the picture.

Mr. Halpern. To my knowledge, Mrs zogbey described

to

me a meeting he had been at at the Director's morning staff

meeting -- this is MI. McCone's morning staff meeting -- in

which Mr. McCone, almost in terms of a bombshell for the

TOP SECRET

NN 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

2

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

13

group at the meeting, stated that Mr.

Helms would henceforth

be - the words were,

his man on Cuba. This was something

that nobody in the room apparently had any inkling of, and

particularly Mr.Helms, nor Mrizogbey.

The Chairman. May I ask you to repeat that?

I am sorry, I just didn't catch it.

Mr. Halpern. At a meeting sometime in December 1961.

which was the morning staff meeting that the Director held, and

Max Zogbey) was present --

Mr. Schwarz. But you were not?

MI. Halprin

I was not, I got this from Mao Zosby --

the Director, Mr. McCone,

announced that Mr. Helms would be

his man on Cuba, Mr. Helms would then be the Chief of Operations

for the Deputy Director of Plans, and Mr. Bissell was in the

room as the DDP.

Mr. Helms had no inkling of this before the meeting,

and so stated to (Makzogbey.,

and even asked Mr

r. Zogby if he had

had any inkling before the meeting.

Mre Zogbey told me that he had none whatsoever.

Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr. Helms then

come and visit your

new organization and tell you to make some changes?

MI. Halpern. Yes. He came to

Mer Zogbey's office and looked

at the list of officers, male and female, who were still

working in the branch. Most of them were the remnants of the

people from the old Bay of Pigs operation who had not yet been

reassigned.

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 7

---

## Page 8

TOP SECRET

30

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

2

4

5

6

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

involved in this operation?

That was the first reference I

recall to a female operative.

MI. Schwarz. There

was no such previous evidence.

Mr. Halpern. We had a number of female officers!

and

still do, in our branches. And there were some in the Cuban

branch and the Cuban task

force.

Senator Huddleston.

-...

What types of

activities did they

participate in?

Mr. Halpern.

Oh, recruting of agents, the handling

of agents, disseminating reports, preparing propaganda guid-

ances, preparing papers for a special group as appropriate,

doing the work of any other officer.

Senator Huddleston. Can you name one or suggest one

that was heavily involved in the assassination attempt?

Mr. Halpern. Oh, I don't know of any in the assassina-

tion attempt per se.

Senator Huddleston. You don't know of any?

MI. Halpern. No, sir.

Senator Huddleston. Thank you.

The Chairman. Senator Mondale?

Senator Mondale. I am sorry I cam e in late, Mr. Hal-

pern, and missed some of your testimony. As I came in you

were saying that orders came from somewhere to get off your

ass.

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir.

Mr. Bissell told Me Logbey:

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page B

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET

37

2

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

cers whose objective would be to plan for the overthrow of

the Castro regime.

Mr. Smothers. Was it your understanding that these

plans were to extend to assassination?

Mr. Halpern. That word was not used, sir. But no

holds were barred, and we had no limitation.

MI. Smothers. Let me ask you it another way. What was

your understanding of what Mr. Bissell had been told to do

by the President and the Attorney General?

Mr. Halpern. To get rid of Castro and the Castro regime

on the Island of Cuba.

MI. Smothers. Did Mr. Bissell convey to you the idea

that that included killing Castro?

Mr. Halpern. The subject never came up per se.

Mr. Smothers. What did you come away from that meeting

expecting to do?

MI. Halpern. We were very hard put to come upwwith

any real ideas. We didn't know what to do, frankly. And we

went back -- one thing we both agreed on, both logbey and

I, is that we were not going to come up with a piece of

paper which said this was going to be easy or could be done

overnight, or could be done with mirrors.

The Chairman. Did you come away after your conversation

with Mr. Bissell with the idea that he had instructed you

to come up with a plan of some kind designed to overthrow,

TOP SECRET

NH 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

66

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

5

4

5

6

7

8

later.

The Chairman. I would like to take this and several

other questions up with the committee,

one of which deals

with the question of the August recess.

And I want to

confer with you on that, too.

How many more questions do you have?

Mr. Schwarz. Instead of asking the other questions I will

ask whether he knows anything about them, and we could bring

him back later if he does.

Do you know anything about

WARD & PAUL

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

MI. Halpern. Yes, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. We will bring you back on that.

The Chairman. Can we get that done now?

Mr. Schwarz. Such

"m was made in Hollywood, was it?

Mr. Halpern. I don't know where it was made, sir.

but I know it was made.

Mr. Schwarz. It was made in the

u.s.?

MI. Halpern. As far as I know it was.

Mr. Schwarz. And was that done under your direction?

Mr. Halpern. Well, it was done at the Far East Division

request, and I was the one who did the negotiating with the

Office of Security.

Mr. Schwarz. And was the plan: that

TOP SECRET

NH 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 10

---

## Page 11

* TOP SECRET

67

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

2

3

PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Halpern. No, sir, that was not the plan at all.

Mr. Schwarz.

What was the plan?

Mr. Halpern. The

plan

was to have (such ansuim.from)

which

we coura makes tim. which we could use in the propaganda

activity

Mr. Schwarz.

designed to put

In short, it was axfake movie which was

Jin an undesirable light

Mr. Halpern. And, therefore,|

Senator Mondale. How was that film supposed to get to

Mr. Halpern. It wasn't la.

fiIm.

The original plan was

to use clips from it in propaganda leaflets, and pamphlets,

and things like that, just picturesurrom the film.

Mr. Schwarz. Who authorized that?

MI. Halpern. &

who was then Division Chief.

TOP SECRET

Nw 50955 DocId:32281927 Paye 11

---

## Page 12

Phone (Ared 202) 544-6000

1

_ TOP SECRET

Mi. Schwarz.

authorized it?

Mr. Halpern.

68

Do you know if any higher authority

Not offhand, no, sir, personally I don't

know.

WARD

PAUL

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

Mr. Schwarz.

And was it done, of was it turned off?

147,1751

• mean, the pictures werertaken

Mr. Halpern. The picture was taken, and that was the

end of it.

Mr. Schwarz. And Mr. Maheu was used to accomplish it?

MI. Halpern. I have no idea whatsoever.

Mr. Schwarz. And were the chipscused

Mr. Halpern. No, they were not.

Mr. Schwarz. Why not?

Mr. Halpern. We didn't have any proper outlets to

get it done.

Mr. Schwarz. You had the siim,

but you had no way to

distribute it

MI. Halpern. Not then time but the clips:

Mr. Schwarz.

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr. Halpern. The name is brand new to me, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know anything about the

MI. Halpern. No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TOP SECRET

69

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

3

4

5

6

Mr. Halpern. That I participated? No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz.

WARD & PAUL

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Me: Halpern. No, sir. I was only in Bangkok, I think,

once in my life.

Mr. Schwarz. That doesn't ring a bell at all?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know about any other killings?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

The Chairman. Any other questions?

Senator Schweiker. I just want to say, Mr. Chairman, that

I would like to compliment the witness for some very clear and

impartial answers, instead of the partial amnesia that we have

run into lately.

And I think your kind of candor is very helpful to us

in this committee to do the job. And I think it was very

refreshing to hear some clear-cut specific recommendations of

I just want to thank you.

what did or did not happen.

The Chairman.

I agree.

Thank you very much.

If there are no further questions, I think that completes

the interrogation.

(The witness left the hearing room.)

TOP SECRET

IH 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 13

---

