# 157-10004-10276

## Page 1

157-10004-10276

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

IGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

.: 157-10004-10276

RECORDS SERIES :

LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CENTRAL CONTRACTING OFFICER

TO : MAHEU, ROBERT

TITLE :

CONTRACT BETWEEN ROBERT MAHEU AND CIA

DATE : 08/01/68

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

MAHEU, ROBERT

ROBERT MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)

CONTRACT WITH CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32202165

Page 1

Date: 09/02/94

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO ORICOTION TO

DECLASSIRIO 7IOM AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

---

## Page 2

Viagrab:%. 5.0. 20528

EE. ESPRENCE

SEGRET

MI. Robert A. Maheu, President

Robert A. Maheu ext Associates

Dear Mr. Maheu:

This document is to confirin discussions held between vourself

as the "Firm" and

representing Robert A, Maheu ed Associates, hereinafter seferred is

representing

If it conforms to your understanding of the agree -

ment reached herein,

provided below.

kindly so acknowledge by signing in the space

.l.. You have agreed to name a

employee

•• as your

representative

It is further agreed that all costs of this

arrangement to the Firm including but not necessarily limited to the

following, are to be reimbursed

7(a) A basic salary of $900 per month.

(b) Costs incurred during the training of the

employee

as well as travel costs for transporting him and his

dependents and household effects from the United States

and return:

(c) Representational costs incurred by the

employee

including items such as entertainment of clients,

secretarial and office help, office rental and office

expenses except that prior

approval is required

for the hiring of employees and rental of office space.

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DECLASSIPIOATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

(d) Costs incurred at the direction and for the sole

benefit of the Firm as opposed to those incurred for

2|2398

the establishment and maintenance of

rat to be reimbursed

:2 =

will fulfill its reimbursement obligations by advancing

funds,

tricugh a mutually agreed upon and secure channel, to the Firm

in response to quarterly billings submitted by the Firm. Such billings

will indicate the general nature, kind and amount of reimbursable

expenditures.

01473

APPROVED FON RELEASE 1993

C HSTORUCAL REVIEW PROGRAM, SECRET

AS SANTEED IT T-GY

6:..

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFF

50955

DocId: 32202165

Page 2

---

