# 157-10014-10048

## Page 1

157-10014-10048

Date :

08/04/95

Page :

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10048

RECORDS SERIES

HEARINGS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

07-H-06

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: SSCIA

SWENSON, HAROLD

TITLE

DATE

05/10/76

SUBJECTS

: AMLASH

CIA

CASTRO, FIDEL

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

:1A, 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/02/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Box 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955

Doold: 32423436

Page

1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET

ORIG

to. Cri

Or Anird Staten Bruate

CORMATION

a Subject

R3022

Report of Proceedinge

+TM1893

3(m02)

EG

142 13 0

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

76

Monday, May 10, 1976

Washingion, D. C

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over

to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

3017 WILSON BOULEVARD

ARLINGTON, VA 22201

(703) 841-0800

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

Phone (Area 202)

11?131

MARO & FAUL

110 Firsi Streer, S.E., Mastongion, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

CONTENT'S

4

TESTIMONY OE:

Harold Swenson

_-accompanied by--

Robert D. Peloguin

PAGE

7

10 00

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1

9

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

570ne (9183 202) 548-8

5 Ira.

- ..

C:

WARD A FAUL

110 8 191 S9:001, 5.6., Wastington, D.C. 2000.3

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

19

20

2

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Monday, May 10, 1976

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to

Intelligence Activities,.

Washington, D.c.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:18 o'clock

a.m., in Room 608, The Carroll Arms Hotel the Honorable

Richard 5. Schweiker presiding.

Present: Senator Schweiker (presiding).

Also present: Jim Johnston, Michael Epstein and Paul

Wallach, Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 5

PhOnE (ArRa 202) 51

i3 3

PAUL

410 First Sirens. S.E., Washinaton, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

5

6

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

2

2

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

PAOSEEDINES

Senator Schweiker. All right, Mr. Swenson, we

swear

in

all of our witnesses, if you would rise and raise your right

hand, please.

Do you solemnly swear the testimony you're about to give

is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,

so help you God?

Mr. Swenson. I do.

Senator Schweiker.

Be

seated.

Mr. Johnston. Mr. Swenson,

would you state your name ind!

address?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 6

WARD A PAUL

d10 First Street, S.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

Phone fAres 202)

1

2

4

LOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF HAROLD SWENSON

ACCOMPANIED BY ROBERT D. PELOQUIN

Mr. Swenson. Harold Swenson. My home address is

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

15

19

20

21

22.

2:

24

25

Mr. Johnston. And you are accompanied by counsel this

morning, is that correct?

MI. Swenson. That's correct.

MI. Johnston. I would ask counsel to identify himself

for the record.

Mr. Peloguin. Robert D. Peloguin, 1707 H Street, N.W.

Mi. Johnston. Let me state for the record that I called

at the Agency this morning and stated that you

were

going to represent Mr. Swenson, and he stated that that

was acceptable to the Agency.

Mr. Peloquin. I am proud to hear that.

Mr. Johnston. Mr. Swenson, you are aypearing here

voluntarily today. Do you understand that you have all of you:

conscitutional rights vefore this Committee?

Mr. Sivenson.

I do.

1a. Joinston. And

your attorney nay be consulied at ay

time.

Mr. Sivenson. Thank you.

Mr. Johnston. Mould you stace the dates and position

you occupied in the Speciai Aifairs Stafe oi CIA?

Me. Swenson. I joined the Staff at the time it was knon.:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 7

Priora (Area 2021

pang

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

. 17

19

20

21

22

28

24

25

OP SECRETE

as the task force at the time of the missile crisis in Cuba,

and I continued with the task force, which later became known

as SAS, up to 1965, within the United States as Chief of

Counterintelligence. My first job was Assistant to the

Director of the Tagk Force for the crisis in Cuba, the missile

crisis. I then became Chief of Counterintelligence.

Mr. Johnston. Do you recall exactly when you became Chief

of Counterintelligence?

MI. Swenson. I really can't.

Mr. Johnston, Can you recall the nonth that you left?

Mr. Swenson. well, let me say that when I was assigned

abroad I continued to have a relationship with that staft. W

was during a period of

assignment in Ecrope, so I really

continued in a way to have & relationship with the Staff unti

I retired from the Agency in 1968.

Yes, 1958.

Mr. Johnston. President Kennedy was assassinated on

jovember 22nd, 1963, and i sake it you were Chief-of-counter

intelligence_for-the-Specialitfairs-Staff-at-that-tang.

sir. Johnston. And chat was the scaff that was responsein!

for Cuban matters, is thas correct?

Mr. Swenson. That

is corruct.

Mr. Johaston, tho vore you rusponsible to?

Mr. Swanson, I believe at that time Harvey had been

replaced by Des Fitzgerald, i believe. Des Fitzgerald was the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 8

.-.

210 Fest Street, d.E.. Nastungon, D.l, 20003

phone larea

2021

1

4

5

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

10

1'7

20

22

21

24

25

TOP SECRET

Chief of sas 'at that time."

Mr. Johnston. And you were responsible directly to him.

MI. Swenson. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. Were you aware of the fact that shortly

after the assassination of President Kennedy, the CIA initiated

an investigation into the Assassination?

MI. Swenson. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. Do you recall who was in charge of that

investigation?

Mr. Swenson. No, I do not.

I assume it would have been the CI Staff.

MI. Johnston. Speaking of the CI Stuff, who was in

charge of the CI Staff?

Mr. Swenson. Jin: Angleton.

Mr. Johnston.

And what was your responsibility to Mr.

Angleton?

Air. Swenson.

well, there was a common interest in

counterintelligence matters, and if something came up which

required consultation, I would consult with that staft.

Ar. Johnston. Wore you subordinase to dr. Angleton?

Hi, Swenson. Not really, no.

fir. Joinston. Whas was the relationship between SAS

counterintelligenco and ene Counterihcelligence state at emo

Agency?

Mir. Swenson, Well, one SAS Counterintelligence Staff

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 9

TOP SECRET:

Phone (Aras 2021

C.

WAND Д

111?137

210 First Street, 5.F., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1c

10

20

2:

22

2:

24

25

was sort of a microcosm of the Agency with emphasis on Cuban

matters, Cuban intelligence service especially.

Mr. Johnston. What was the size of the Counterinte liyence

Staff within SAS?

Mr. Swenson. I suppose I had perhaps

Mr. Johnston. At headquarters, is that correct?

Mr. Swenson. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. Going back now to the assassination of

President Kennedy, were you aware of the fact that a special

investigation was initiated shortly after the assassination h

was not located in Mr Angleton's bailiwick?

Nr. Swenson. I knew that there was a special investiga::

but I had nothing to do with it.

Mr. Johnston. Did you know Mr. Jack Whitten, or

, John Whitten?

MI. Swenson. Yes, I knew him.

Ar, Johnston. Dic you know him as being in charge of si

Investigation of the Kennedy assassination?

M2. Swenson. I don't recall shut.

ii, Johnston. Did you ever concaet Ma. whisten about ei.

rennedy assassination?

Mr. Swenson. I did not.

Re. coinston. "ere you personaliy mire of anyintor::

about Lee Harvey Oswald before the assassination?

ir, swenson, To the best of my recollection, it's ratr." :

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 10

TOP SECRET

PRona (Aves 202) =

==..

WARD A FAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 2000.3

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

15

12

23

2:

22

26

24

25

hard for me to place before and after, his name appeared as

having paid a visit to a Cuban or Soviet embassy in Mexico

City, and that's about the only knowledge that I had.

Mr. Johnston. And you have a recollection of knowing that

before the assassination?

ME. Swenson. Now, I cannot remember that it was before.

This is what I am unsure about.

Mr. Johnston. All right.

Mr. Swenson. Normally a great deal of information went

past the desk. I delegated screening of voluminous materials

which came in to various people who worked for me, and they

would call to my attention chinys which appeared significant

and then I would look into those. But really, as far

as the

assassination of President Kennedy is concerned, I an afraid

I don't have anything to contribute. I don't know anything

which didn't appear in the press, really.

Senator Schweiker. You were

never

asked to conäuct any

investigation separately or specially or apart from what --

Mr. Swenson. No, Senator. The only request which was

levied on me with regurd to the assassination, as 1 can recall.

was to

find whether the FBi had given to my staff any iniormai.:

wnich was relevant, and i caused a scarch of our records to li

made, and I believe there haù been sone memorandum wisich vea

relevant, which had then been passed on is Jim Angleton's

CI Staff, and I passed on that information, and I think tha:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 11

410 Firyl Sleeet, S.E., Washingion, O.C. 20003

Phone (Area 202):

2

3

4

5

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

2:

22

24

25

Anton na

TOP SECRET

was the full extent of it:

Mr. Johnston. Had that information been passed on to t'u

CI Staff prior to the assassination?

Mr. Swenson. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. The routing on it, which I assume we are

talking about the same thing, was the report of FBI agent

Kaak on Oswald's activitles in New Orleans.

Mr. Swenson.

That was probably it, yes. As I say, I have

a very vague recollection of it.

Mr. Johnston. And that routing sheet on that meno indicatis

it went to the CI Staff on November 22nd.

Is it your recollection that it went there before the

assassination?

Mr. Swendon. I really can't recall. I am sorry. All

know is that McCone wanted to know had anything come in, I

caused a search to be made. Normally Sam Papich, who was the

Bureau liaison officer who came to my office every working

day, would

see one of the people working for me, now deceassi,

and we would

wass to the bureau

any information

whach appeared pertinent to the Bureau purposes, and we would

receive from the Bureau anything which they considered appro-

priato for us.

So that the nenorandum, as

I recall, which came in, i tau

never seen, but it had been receivod by the office and passed

on in due course.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 12

410 False Street, S.E.. Washington,

0.C. 20003

1

2

4

5

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area

Ms. Johnston. What role did the sas staff itsels play

in connection with the investigation of President Kennedy's

assassination?

MI. Swenson. Directly, none.

Mix. Johnston. Did you advise either Mr. Whitten or Mr.

Angleton about Cuban angles to it?

MI. Swenson. Well, we … you know, I was very conscious

of all of the activities of Cuban intelligence.

Probably

I was better informed than any other one individual about

Cuban intelligence activities, and I knew and know of nothing

which made a contribution as far as the assassination was

concerned.

Mr. Johnston. Were you consulted, though, by it. Anglecon

or Mr. Whitten?

Mr. Swenson.

No, I can't recall that I ever was, bur

I would have discussed anything probably with Des Fitzgerald.

As I say, I can't recall any specific discussion because I

had nothing to offer.

Senator Schweiker. Did you ever pass on any informia.

to che ClA investigation relating to ClA attempts or plous :.

assassinate Castro?

ir. swenson. senator, would you mind repeating that?

not sure that I follow you.

Senator Schweiker. During the course of the invesil.:

Mr. Swenson. Of Kennedy's investigation?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 13

Phone {Ards 202) 51

WARD & FAUL

110 Fuse Street, S.E, Washington. D.C. 21003

1

2

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1:

1ã

13

20

..

21

22

2:

24

*. -

2

TOP SECRET

senator Schwelker. Right:

Did you ever pass on any information relative to plots

ayainst Fidel Castro's life by lask Force ₩ or SAS or any

other?

Mr. Swenson. No, I did not pass on any such reports.

Senator Schweiker. Why did you not?

In other words, wouldn't that have been very relevant to

the investigation?

Mr. Swenson. I had nothing to do with any such plots

against Castro, Senator.

ir. Joinston, Were you knowledgeable of them at the

tinie?

it. swenson, I cannot recall now whether my knowledge in i

there were such plots was before or

after. I would just liic

to say I heartily disapproved of it, 1 thought it was a lou

oi nonsense, and my position on that was very clear, and i

don't think people yenerally talked to me about it because oi

the way I felt.

Mr. Epstein.

You said bufore or after. Before co aun

that?

Pir. Swensun, beiore or after the connedy assassinatio...

1: other words, I can'e recail that I inew that these

han ween clots

arios to bade time, or chether I knew

subsequent to chot time. dy own statt was not involved

nay, and the only inörledge that came to ne about it sas .

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 14

PROMO (Arts 202) 364

-!..

C..

WARO

410 FIrd Street, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

3

4

5

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

2:

2:

22

2:

24

25

TOP SECRET

11

staff meetinge and concerned people who mighthhave been

involved. And I thought, as I said, it's a lot of nonsense.

Senator Schweiket. Were you either asked by Des Fitzgerald

or the Director of CIA not to discuss or pass on information

relating to plots to assassinate Castro?

Mr. Swenson. Absolutely not, no.

Senator Schweiker. Or anyone else?

Mr. Swenson. By no one.

Mr. Johnston. What discussions did you have with Mr.

Fitzgerald about the Kennedy assassination, and especially about

your expertise on Cuban matters?

Mr. Swenson, To the best of my knowledge, there was

never any discussion with Des

about Cuba, participation in e

plot against President Kennedy's life because it never appeared

pertinent.

Mr. Johnston. Let me ask you why you don't feel it was

pertinent, and let us just take as a basis for that question

fact that Oswald was associated with the FPCC, and

in sha:

capacity, clained to be pro-castro, and the fact that he

visited the Cuban consulato in Mexico City to attempt to jet

visa to Cuba shortly before the assassination.

Mr. Swenson.

I don'e think that the evidence which i

suh, and hard information which no hac, indicated that Jorai

was anguning but a nut, perhaps a dangerous nut. ic simply

nad no information to indicate

that he was

part of a Cuban

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 15

TOP SECRET

PROne (ArRa 202) 584

WARD & FAUL

910 First Streer, S.F., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

2:

22

23

24

25

12

intelligence organization or had any real connection with them.

I might add that I did talk to many people, Cubans, who

were knowledgeable about intelligence. activities, Cuban intelli+

gence officers, defectors, and I got never a single bit of

information indicating that there was any association whatsoever.

Senator Schweiker. But when he went to visit the Russian

embassy in Cuba, it was known at the time through the intelligence

agencies that he was with kostikov, who was also known to be

a member of Department 13, which was assassination, was it not?l

Mr. Swenson. I did not know it it the time, and this is

the first l've heard of that, Sanator.

Senator Schweiker. You did not know that?

Mr. Swenson. No, I did not.

Senator Schweiker.

That he visited with kostikoy or that

Fostikov NaS

a member of Department 13?

ir. Swenson. I did not know either. I did have within

my own group some people who were soviet experts, and ve

kopt taos on soviets who were in Cuba.

I did a great deal ci

rescarch about their activitios, bue what you have just

muniloned, Senator, never came to dy ascencion.

Senator

Schweiker. As part of your job, which groups dis

you wors with of the Cuban exiic groups specifically? In

ostel words, viat one -

ar. Swenson. I did not work iith dig of thei, Senator.

Senuto: Schweiker. Well, then, which ones would you be

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 16

C.

ShOnA (Ares 202) 58

WARD A PAUL

810 F erst Sterel, 5.E., Washingion, D.G. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

15

19

20

2:

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

monitoring as Chief of ci?

Certalnly you would be monitoring

some of them as Chief of CI or getting Intelligence back as

Chief of CI.

MI. Swenson. Primarily I targeted our duties against the

Cuban Intelligence Service. I did not deal with the Cuban

groups. That fell within other jurisdictions.

Senator Schweiker. In dealing with the Cuban Intelligerce

Service, weren't some of these people bound to be included in

some of these Cuban exile groups?

Mr. Swenson. Let me put it this way. I did not monitor

groups as such.

Senator Schweiker.

Right.

Mr. Swenson. I did monitor individuals so that if a

naine which had any relationship with the perations of Cuban

intelligence surfaced, I would look into that very closely.

I cannot recall a single name that surfaced which related to

the Kennedy assassination or any information which I ever gos

at any time which related to the

Kennedy assassination.

Senator Schweiker. Do you specifically recall where sc.:

oi jour contacts were located that jou vert monitoring? ia::

they in, for exampie, the URE groups of the Alpha dù yrous, di

for example, where were

some of the contacts that you were

monitoring?

Mr. Shenson.

I was not monitoring cuntacts within to.j

groups. If a none surfaced, regardless of what group he ro.:.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 17

Poona (Area 202) 38

1r?.

410 Forst Sireti, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

4

5

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

114

be in, and he was within the United States, for example, and

I felt that there was some reason to be concerned from a

counterintelligence standpoint, I usually would interview him

myself. I would interview him at great length. Some of these

were, let's say, people who were singletons. They were not

associated with any group.

The only group I can think of offhand was the AMCANOE

group which I was concerned about, the penetration -

Senator Schweiker. What was that?

Mr. Swenson. AMCANOE. It was a cryptonyn. I don't kno

it by any other name.

Senator Schweixer. Well, it would seen to me, and mayb

it is a matter of functional definition, that your Cuban

exiles group would be a fertile field for any intelligence

activity. This is where both the pro- and anti-Castro agents

were operating, where all of your activities would primarily

be, wouldn't they?

Pil. Swenson, liot mine, no, Senator.

Senator Schweiker. In dealing with counterintelligence,

wouldn't you have to be dealing with peogie wao would have ar

out of Cuba and been working in these exite groups, unless

I

don't understand the nature .: your job, and maybe i don't.

we, swenson. well, that's probably as, Senator: He ver:

highly compartmentalized, and i saw iny suie in counterinteli..

sence as beiny focused primarily on the opposite professionals.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 18

н...

С..

ShONA (Arda 202) }

210 Fus: S01rer, 5.E., Washingson, D.C. 20003

1

2

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'7

18

13

20

21

2.

3.

24

25

TOP SECRET

15

not as a groad

gaaged thing.

We had other staff, sir, other

components which focused

primarily on othur aspects, let's

say, the non-professionals, the non-professionals.

Senator Schweiker. In other words, on Cuban intelligence

agents, per se, is that what you're talling me?

Mr. Swenson. Yes. If they were Cuban intelligence

agents, that was my jurisdiction.

Senator Schweiker. But what I'm getting at is wouldn'

a number of these be working undercover in the anti-Castro

exile groups? That would certainly be the logical cover thai

they wouid come into this country

oi.

Mi. Swenson. Senator, : las very alert to this. This

was pait of my job, so this was why I would have all of those

names and operational aliases where we knew then, searched

very carefully to see if they merited further attention, bu:

I cannot recall anything relating to any one particular grou?

except the one which i was concerned about because it appare.

tnac that was --

Senator Schweiker. You are saying you did not realis i.:.

wiin groups per

se.

i!r. Swenson, That is correc..

senator Schweiker. dos about if you sound an agent that

yo: enought, a suspect planial in one group. dos, ie know ..

üid was querating certain o1 these groups, Houldn't you ici.

gone to the case officer for that group to find out about ti

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 19

don.

Prone (Arsa 202)

MARD&

410 first 591eet, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 10001

1

3

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

2:

24

25

TOP SECRET

person?

MI. Swenson. I would have gone to the other staffs, or

the case officer or whoever was responsible, and yes, I would

have discussed that. If I had any doubts about it, I would

have expressed them very strongly and would probably have taken

other measures.

Senator Schweiker. During your tenure as Chief of CI, were

you ever alarmed or concerned about leaks from our side to

theirs and was part of your job to plug thase leaks?

Mr. Swenson. Yes, I was concerned and took measures to

plug leaks where I suspected them.

sanator Schweiker. Did wi: have substantial leaks or dosai

leaks, or how would you describe the kind of information fio:

back to Castro?

MI. Swenson,

It is very hard to say how substantial the

leaks were.

Let me yive you an example, Senator. ve nac operatio.s

targeted against Cuva involving Cubans, resident in the Unir:

States, who were often very indiscrete, so that it a missio:

wore planned to land some oi inom on Cuba, ¿or example, "i

wouid sometimes pick up the telephone and they rould call

friend, a relative in Cuba, and they thought thez were beat:

very discrete, I burpose, by canning about nopiny to see i.::

aunt or their grandnother or sorething like this, and Icia:

they weren't. Those calls were monitored by the Cuban

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 20

Pront (Area 202):

c.;

WAHO A PAUL

410 Firsi Street, S.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

17

1

2

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

• 17

18

19

20 :

2:

22

e:

24

25

intelligence service, and some of those people were arrested or

killed on landing. This was of great concern to me.

My role in this was simply the protective measure, to try

to determine who might be involved, and insofar as people in the

United States were concerned who were suspected of being

Cuban intelligence agents, I would discuss that with Sam Papich

because I felt that the Bureau had a jurisdiction within the

continental United States.

Senator Schweiker. As part of your role, would you ever

infiltrate an American agent to act as d double agent to

find

what the leaks were? Was that part of your work, too?

Mr. Swenson.

Yes,

1 had had such an opportunity, i

would have taken it. I did not.

Senator Schweiker. You did not.

ME. Swenson.

I did not. I would have if a suitable

opportunity hd presented

itself:

Senator Schweikei. All right, go ahead.

Az. Johnston.

were

you avare of tao allegatione uf a ran

namod alvarado in Mexico city?

Does that name ring a boll?

tir. Swenson. Yeail, it is such a common hame.

Mi. Jonnston, Mith three days after the issassinatin..

no walked into the enuasst, unc ü.s. enbassy in Mexico, an

was subseyuently in contace wich the Chiet of Station. Essen

tially he alleged that he saw money passed to Oswald in the

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 21

TOP SECRET

PROta (As*$ 202) 54

WARD a

410 4 03t Street, s.f.. Washengton, D.C. 20001

2

4

5

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1'1

18

17

20

2

22

2:

24

25

Cuban embassy in Mexico City.

Were you aware of that fact?

Mr. Swenson. I can't recall it now. I am sorry.

Mr. Johnston. Wouldn't that fact, an analysis of that have

been in your jurisdiction?

Mr. Swenson. If that had come to my attention at the time,

we wouid have examined it very carefully, and I would say that

either it wag not taken seriously, or for some reason it didn't

get to my attention.

Mr. Johnston. Let me address the point of your taking i:

seriously.

No. Alvarado's allegations wer briefod to President.

Joinson'at the time they were being made, Now, are you testi-

fying that you were never consulted about the Alvarado

allegations?

Mr. Swenson. I do not recall them.

Mr, Johnston. Dia you know about technical coverage on :

Cuban consulate and Cuban embassy in ilexico city?

was that in your jurisdiction?

Mr. Swenson. #vowledgo o1 i: i did have. I= kas not

within ny jurisdiction

to operate.

That was not my stair';

function.

2a. Johnston. What does technical coverage di an emon.::

or a consulate

supposed to do?

Mr. Swenson.

Well, when you say technical coveraye, ::

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 22

DROA

:

210 Fust Sesert, S.F., Washingion, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

1

2

3

4

5

course, that would include the use of -

Mr. Johnston. What is the purpose of it?

Mr. Swenson, Well, the purpose of it was to obtain

intelligence about hostile intentions.

Mr. Johnston. Were you ever asked whether any of Oswald's

contacts in Mexico City were DGI?

MI. Swenson. I can't recall the specific question

directed to me on that score, but had I known of any DGI contacts

with Oswald, I would have discussed then.

Mr. Johnston. How would you have known who the contacts

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

were?

#r. Swenson.

Well, my role was really the Cuban intelli-

yence service, and we went to great lengths:to keep track of

Cuban intelligence officers, their contacts, and their

activities.

Mr. Johnston. How would you have known whose Oswald's

contacts were?

Mc. Swenson, I would have known only if one of those

known contacts of Cuban intelligence ind been in touch with

anybody, and if Oswald's name nad surfaced, i would have looi:

at that.

"r. Johnston. But you wore never given a name or a group

names of the cubans wich whow oswald nay nave been in contadi

in Mexico City.

Mr. Swenson. I do not recall that, nu.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 23

Phono (Aran 207) 30d

-.

1n:

-

WARD & FAUL

a10 Firsi Stieri, S.E., Wishington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

'12

13

14

15

16

-----

18

20

2:

22

24

25

TOR SECRET

MI. Johnston. And

given your advice on whether they were

DGI.

Mr. Swenson. However, let me go a step further. I

prepared a rather elaborate system of identification of people

connected with Cuban intelligence service. This was computerized

so that people who had clearances were welcome to look at that

lis: for any connections. So this group, like Jack Whitten's

group, which had a specific function, could have simply looked

at that. They need not have talked to me.

Mr. Johnston. Let me ask you whether in November of

1963 you were aware of an operation that had the code name

AMLASH.

Mr. Swenson. Yes.

MI. Johnston. And do you know who AMLASH was, his real

identity?

MI. Swenson. I did know, yes.

Let's go off the record. I can't recall his name.

Mr. Johnston, Let's jo off the recora.

(Discussion off the recois.)

No Johnston, Back on tao rodord, did you tour back i

wovenber 1963 that the old was meeting tich abash?

Mr. Swenson, jes, ane 1 had expressed my

reservatic..iur

such a meeting. 1 din'e considor him so be responsibie.

ir. Johnston, Let me asi you a preliminary question. !

you ever been asked by this comittee as to your

knowledse a

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 24

Priona (Ares 202)

WARD&

410 fil Street, S. E., Washinaron, D.C. 1000.3

TOP SECRET-

AMLASH?

2

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

12

13

14

15

16

18

Mr. Swenson. No.

Mr. Johnston. Did you know that Mr. Fitzgerald met with

AMLASH in late October of 1963?

Mr. Swenson. I believe I did. I have a vague recollection

of that now, yes.

Mr. Johnston. And do you know about the purpose of that

meeting?

Mr. Swenson.

Yes.

Mo. Johnston. What was the purpose of that neeting?

Mr. Swenson.

I believe this was related to the

assassination, an assassination plot against Castro, and as

to this I had reference before. I couldn't recall the exace

time frame, but I thought it was nonsense. I thought it wou

be counterproductive if it had been successful, so I opposed

it.

Mr. Johnston,

Dia you know that Mr. Fiuzgerald went

ahead with it?

Mr. Swanson:

Yes.

Mr. Fitzgorald and 1 did nct

always

E: i ayres.

Hi. jonnston. But de tuld you ie was going ahead wit

2: 1

the operacion.

22

Me anonson, I exprossed mi reservations doout in.

23

went ahead.

ile üidh't ask my percissios.

lie was my boss.

24

25

Hi. ivanston. Diù you in fact know about the Outoue: :..

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 25

TOP SECRET

Phono (Aros 202) 984

p...

110 $ 1990 G.F G.F, Wasteration, Did 2000.3

2

3

4

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

39

20

2!

2P.

24

25

meeting

MI. Swenson. I knew he had the meeting, yes.

Mr. Johnston, That MI. Fitzgerald personally had

gone to the meeting.

Mr. Swenson. Yes.

Mr. Johnston. Did you know that Mr. Fitzgerald had

assured AMLASK that he was the personal representative of

Attorney General Kennedy?

Mr. Swenson. No, I don't know that he did that.

sir. Johnston.

And again as a matter of background, hav

you reai the Committee's report on

assasginations?

Mr. Swenson.

I have not.

"r. Joinston. Did you know that on lovember 22nd,

1963 the case officer was meeting with AMLAS!?

Mr. Swenson.

I believe I knew that about that sine that-

was to be a meeting.

Mir. Johnston.

Did you also know that proposed for the

meeting was the fact that the case officer was going to oid.

AMLASHl a poison pen?

dia. Sivenson, 1o, I sid not.

Mr. Johnston, You had no inowledye at the tine of thi

poison pen?

ir. Swenson. to.

As i sule you, I disagreed basicil:

with the whole thrust of the AMiSh operation. My disayorti

of it was very strong. des Fitzgerald knew it, and Des roi...

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 26

===.

сопа (Aron 2071 544-600

1

5

6

7

8

9

10

1]

12

13

14

16

21

2

24

25

TOP SECRET

preferred not to discuas it anymore with me.

Senator Schweiker. What was the basis of your disapproval?

I

mean, why did you disagree?

Mr. Swenson. Well, I didn't think it was a sensible

operation, Senator. "I felt first that we were dealing with

people whose bona fides were subject to quastion, whose

professionalism was subject to question, and I felt that if thuj

had succeeded in killing Castro, that he might have been succeeded

by his brother, for example, who would be worse.

So I thought

it was a pointless operation. I thought it was a lot of

nonsense.

Mr. johnston.

here you asked

to provide counterintel!

support for the AMbaSil operation?

Ar. Swenson.

I provide counterinteliigence suyport tor

everyuhing in the

sense that I have

alrady described. Any

names which came up i woule chock for.

te. Sonnston.

But specifically for areas:.

the Swenson.

raid, in debrietiny peopie connected tir

Cubar intelligence, 1 had a lot di names, and i bad collecte

lot or Information,

thac

information mich 1 cotiectod 1 chined over to them.

johnson. done you ever asked specifscally what

met tied dalache that

jestion brode an this eccracion doin

1r. Onenbot, is a hate alacady indicator to you, 14

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 27

shona (Aran 202) 5-68-6006

WARD &

410 FIrst Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 2000)

LOP SECRET

1

2

8

9

10

11

12

17

14

15

1€

17

1a

19

20

21

22

24

25

them I disapproved it, I didn't trust the people, I didn't

consider it a good operation on security grounds or any grounús.

Mr. Wallach. Did you consider

it an assassination

operation?

Mr. Swenson. Did I consider it?

Mr. Wallach. Is that how it was explained to you, an

assassination plot?

Mr. Swenson. Oh, that's it, yes.

Senator Schweiker. There wasn't any doubt in your mind

about that.

Mr. Swinson. That that was the intent of it? No.

just chought is was silly.

Mr. Johrston. Were you aware of thu statement that

Fidel Castro made to the il reporter Daniel Harker on September

7th, 1963, and in that statement said the U.S. was meeting

with dissident groups and was planning to eliminate Cuban

leaders, and that Cuba would retaliate if that continued?

Mr. Swenson. I don't have a firm recollection now. :

probably did.

Mr. Johnston, Let me go chen to 1965.

What happened with the MiLASH operation, to your recollec

tion, in 1965?

Mr. Swenson. I draw a completely blank. I don't remerdo:

1Ow.

ir. johnstor. Do you remember the name

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 28

2021

TAND & PAUL

810 51661 5tree1, 5.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

2

3

4

5

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

22

24

25

Mr. Swenson.*

"Notireally

Mr. Johnston, Let ne refresh your recollection, that at

least according to the files, you and the FBI met with

In New York City in 1965:

Mr. Swenson. Excuse me.""The name still doesn't ring a

bell. I met with a Cuban In New York In 1965 for the purpose

of training him and sending him back to Cuba.

Is this what you are talking about?

Mr. Johnston. No.

was pait of the AMLASI!

group that had knowledge of the AMLASH operation as it had

evolved into 1965.

Mr. Swenson. Yes I remember the man now, yes, yes I do.

MI. Johnston. Diu you meet with him and debrief him?

Mr. Swenson. Yes, yes I did. I mes him at the FBI

office in New York.

Mr. Johnston. At that time did you know of any connections

between

and anything dealing with the inves:i-

gation into President Kennedy'a assassination?

Mr. Swenson, I can't recall. Anything which I knew doot.

I would have put into the memorandum at the time af

I

met him

at the New York Office. And I couldn't even remed

the name, as I toid you, until now.

I do know that he went into the office, chat he want..

ste

someone, I believe it was Sam Papich that first toid :.

of it, and I went in for che purpose of debriefing him, an:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 29

C.

MAND & PAUL

410 Fors: Street, S.E., Mashinglon, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

233

24

25

TOP SECRET

remember he made a humber tot allegations, tall of which I

recorded in a memorandum at, the time.!

Mr. Johnston.

Do you remember that he alleged that one

of the CIA officers

had been compromised by Cuban

intelligence officers?

Mr. Swenson. Yes, I remember that.

Mr. Johnston. Was that true?

MI. Swenson. I dontt know whether it was true or not.

I would say that the number of operations that were being

conducted

again were not secure from a counterintelli-

gence standpoint.

thought that they were rather sloppy, anu

I

indicated that.

Mr. Johnston. One of your memoranda that you wrote afte:

the

meeting states . and all I have are my notes fron

it -- the AMLASH

circle is wide, and each new friend of whom

we learn seems to have knowledge of the plan.

I believe the

problem is a more serious and basic one. Fidel reportedly kei

in 1962. that the groun was plotting against him and enlisted

its support. Hence

we cannot rule out the possibility of

provocation.

Do you recall that memorandun?

Mr. Swenson. This is true, and this is what i testifie

to already. I had serious nisgivings about the security o:

the whole operation.

sir. Johnston.

Anü what did you mean by provocation?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 30

TOP SECRET

Prona faroo

+. .

C..

WARD & PAUL

#1O First Street, S.E., Wastingion, O.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

6

7

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

÷9

20

21

22

23

24

25

M2. Swenson. I reant that the Cubans might have been trying

to turn their knowledge ofnwhat we were doing to their purposes,

if only for propaganda purposes.

I. felt.from the outset the whole thing was nonsense, as I

have said repeatedly, and in my debriefings of people, the

more I learned, the more insecure it appeared to me, so I

simply continued to oppose such ventures. I thought they were

silly.

Senator Schweiker. Knowing Fidel Castro's personality and

temperament, and on the assumption that you were right, that he

had some knowledge of these ouerations which you feared, ouvio: s

ly, from the record of what you said, wouldn't you possibly have

meant provocation more than just reciprocating with propagande,

knowing his personality?

MI. Swenson, Well, I would have considered any type of

retaliatory measure by Castro, and this was the purpose of the

dissemination of such material to other government agencies

which had jurisdiction, such as the FBl and the Secret Service.

Nr. Johnston. Let

ne ask you, isn't it obvious that i:

CIA was plotting to assassinate Castro and he becare aware o:

it, that he might retaliate, especially when he had warned as ::

retaliation?

Ma. Swenson, it is possible, os course. This is one u?

the things that concerned

me, but I never knew that as a res::!.

of all of this there was any attenpt.on the part of the Cubar

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

PROnA (ArRA 202)

WARD A FAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

15

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

government or of Cuban Intelligence to assassinate the President.

Mr. Johnston. Did you conduct an investigation in order to

determine whether the Cuban government had retaliated specifically

for the AMLASH operation?

Mr. Swenson.

Well, your using the term investigation is

what is puzzling me here. What I did is a constant function,

was to look for any activities on the part of opposition

services which would threaten the United States or people in the

United States, United States security. This was a continuing

function. There was no particular investigation except as

part of what I did all the time. The MiLASH group was

conceri du me because I thought they wore sloppy, but i never:

did find out from all of the many interviews I conducted, and

the research I did, and that of everybody on my staff, that

there was ever any attempt on the part of the Cubans to

assassinate the President.

Mr. Johnston.

Are you aware of an agent who was

involveri

in the AMiSH operation who had the crypt Amwillp?

Mr. Sivenson. This goes back a long time.

I remenber th

Mr. Johnston. Lei me mention his name off the record.

(Discussion off the recurd.)

#ir. Johnston.

Back on the recoru.

Did you ever sugyest that either ALich or Almilp be

interrogated about the kennedy assassination and its connects...

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 32

i."

410 First Sireet, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

to the AMLASH operation?

Mr. Swenson. I cannot recall whether I suggested it or

not. I believe I did question AMWHIP myself.

Mr. Johnston. In what year?

Mr. Swenson. This I can't recall, the exact timeframe.

It is quite a long time ago.

Mr. Johnston. Was that 1965 that AMWHIP was interrogated?

Mr. Swenson. I would say it.was probably in 1965 because

it was in 1965 that I departed for Burope, and I think it

was prior to my departure, and that's the best I can do about

fixing it.

Mr. Johnston. Did you ever talk to the case officer whe

had been at the November 22nd meeting about whether anythiny

was mentioner at the meeting that might indicate retaliation?

Mr. Swenson. I probably did. I can't recall anything

specific, but I talked to the people, to the case officers

who were involved. They were well aware of my reservations

about people with whom they were dealing.

Mr. Johnston. ifter the assassination of President ken.

dic

you have any discussion with is. Fitzgerald or Mr. lcius

about the possibility of retaliacion because of the AlLAS!!

Overation?

Nr. swensoni. = would say shat possibly at a stals meet!.

I might have mentioned the possibility with des Fiezgeraid,

Dut I had no concrete information to indicate that there was

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 33

€10 First Streel, S.F.., Malhington, D.C. 20003

1:

2

3

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

C.

2021

an attempt at reti

ation

MI. Johnston." And who would have been at that staft

meeting?

Mr. Swenson. Probably Sam Halpern, Seymour Bolten,

possibly

• There

are a couple of others whose

faces I recall but I don't know that I'd even remember their

names.

Senator Schweiker. Would the Director have been there?

Mr. Swenson. No, he would not.

Mr. Johnston. Would MI. Helms have been there?

Mr. Swenson.. No, he would not.

Mr. Johnston. And can you place a date, an approxima::

date on the staff meeting, or at least a date in relation?

Mr. Swenson.

We had

staff meetingsjjust daily, sir.

Mr. Johnston. Was it about the time of the Kennedy

assassination or shortly after the kennedy assassination?

Mr. Swenson. I am sure that in that general timeframe

there was a staff meeting, and

I would have

at

the time expres

any counterintelligence views wrich I considered appropri.t..

juse wärnings, or

let's say, being sareful.

He, Johnston, Well, let

nie

refine it.

Do you have a recollection of mentiching a connectio:

or the possibility of a connection between AMLASH and

Kennedy's assassinacion

at i staff meeting?

Do you

have

recollection of doiny that?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 34

410 €1051 Street, S.E., Wastenatan, D.C. 2000.1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

• 17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Phone (ArAs 202) 34

Mr. Swenson•

don't have a firm recollection now.

had

a memorandum from which you quoted.

You

Mr. Johnston. Apparently a 2965 memorandut?

Mr. Swenson. I can't recall anything

as of the

Kennedy assassination, nothing definite.

MI. Johnston. Do you recall such a discussion now?

Mr. Swenson.

Not positively.

Mr. Johnston.

That you said that sometime.

Mr. Swenson. What I am getting at is that this is

one of the things I would normally have considered.

Senator Schweiker. You're

saying it may have occurred.

Mr. Swenson. It may have occurred, but I don't have any

firm recollection.

Mr. Peloquin. May

we go off the record?

Senator Schweiker.

Sure.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Johnston. Back on the record. My question to you

is this. Do you have

a recollection of a staff meeting at

some time with the participants you described at which a

possibiiity of a connection bogwee: AMbast operation and us

Kennedy assassination vas discussed?

fir. Swenson, no suecific recollection, no.

#it. Joinsion. Dis it occur to you at the tine that

there might be some suon connection?

Mr. Swenson. I am merely assuming that I would have

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 35

C.:

оть (9278 202}

WARD A FAUL

410 First Street, 5.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1.8

19

20

21

2.2

₴3

24

25

TOP SECRET

explored or would have thought about it as well as all other

ramification.

Mr. Johnston. I'm not asking you at this point

Mr. Swanson. I don't remember:

Mr. Johnston. I'm not asking. you at this point whether you

explored it. I'm just asking you whether you drew a possibility

of a connection in your mind?

Mr. Swenson. I probably would have. I don't have any

specific recollection of it.

Mr. Johnston. Do you now draw the possibility of a

connection?

Mr. Swenson. As a possibility, yes, but all of my

eiforts over a long period of time which were say exhaustive

and extensive, both, failed to produce any connection.

I would

be mindful at all times

of

such possibilities in everythiny

that I did, and I interrogated many people, I interviewed man;

people. I lead reports from many sources.

I never found ever:

a thread of a connection.

Mr, Johnston, Well, let me ask you as a specific fact

whether you knew

that on November 22nd an

aircraft flight

in Mexico City, a Cubana aircraft flight from Mexico City su

Havana was detained from about 5:00 o'clock in the afternoon

until 10:00 o'clock in the evening awaiting a passenger who

arrived in a twin-enyined

aircraft, who bypassed Custons a'

who rode in the pilot's cabin on the flight to Havana?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 36

$10 First Street, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

NOTE SE

Mr. Swenson. I have no recollection of it.

Ms. Johnston, Do you have any recollection of checking

into that, either receiving that of checking into that?

Mr. Swenson, Not specifically.

Senator Schweiker. Do any recollections come back to you

of unusual movement of "'iban intelligence agents immediately

prior to, during and after the Kennedy assassination?

Me. Swenson. They do not, Senator.

Mr. Wallach. I am sorry I had

to miss the beginning of your

testimony and I may be going over something that was alicady

asked. Just let me know.

It is my understanding that you were aware generally

of the AMLASH operation and the purpose of the operation in 1963.

Mr. Swenson. Generally and specifically both, I would

52Y

Mr. Wallach. You were aware that there was

a meeting

set up with AMLASH in Brazil in September of 1963 or thereabouds?

Mr. Swenson.

I cannot recall. I would have known

probably that.there was such a meeting to be held. I was

on record as considering that this

was a dangerous and

stupid operation.

Mr. Wallach. The meetiny in Brazi: with AMLASH was --

can you give

Writ

that?

ir. Johnston. Septenber Sth, or early Septenber.

Mr. Swenson, I cannot remember the exact dates. It was

3

long time ago.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 37

des..

410 Fiest Strat, 5. E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

3

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Mr:

Wallach.

with MAste case officer, correct, and

then subsequently appearing In a september 7th edition of

the New Orleans Times-Picayune, Fidel Castro goes down to the

Brazilian consulate in Havana and makes a speech or grants an

Interview to Dandel Harker, the AP reporter, and specifically

uses the wordas"eliminate"

Mr. Swenson. I believe this has already been covered.

Mr. Wallach, I know Jim did raise that but what I'm

asking you is whether or not in your counterintelligence

background and your knowledge of Castro whether or not Castro's

A, the fact that he granted an interview; and B, the fact that

he apparently went to the Brazilian consulate, which I

understand that he did not frequent very often, has any

significance?

I an asking this to you as an expert.

Mr. Swenson. MI. Castro is a very bold, imaginative

person who is capable of doing anything. Does it have some

special significance relating to the Kennedy assassination?

I don't see any.

Mr. Epstein. The suggescion has been made that he chose

the Brazilian consulate because that was his method of getti::

message, if the operation had been compromised, that he hed

learned of

the meeting that had happened

in Brazil in Septe.wu:

of

1963.

The suygestion has

been

made that that is the wat

he was getting the message to the United States.

Do you remember that ever being discussed or considereú?

TOP SECRET

- -

---

## Page 38

TOP SECRETE

Бом,

WAND

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

12

20

21

22

24

25

ME. Swenson.

I don't recall that, no.

10. 02.11

Mr. Epstein. In retrospect, now, is that an issue that is

considerable by counterintelligence people, and does it

trigger any kind of thoughts in your own head when you hear

it now?

Mr. Swenson. Well, you see there are so many things that

were going on all over Latin:America with regard to Cuban

activities in the different countries, 'I would go to

Brazil, for example, or, for example, of seeing people who

had been connected with Cuban intelligence, and debriefing them

so on, and I would not read that Castro's visit to the

Brazilian installation had

anythiny to do wich the Kennedy --

had anything to do with a whole host of things.

Mr. Epstein. No. The issue is whether his visit to the

Brazilian consulate would have had anything to do with --

Me. Swenson. With getting our attention --

Mi. Epstein. Getting our attention, and indeed, the

veracity of his assertion, that he had learned of plots -

Mr. Swanson. I would not attribute that special signiti-

cance to it because there were so nany reasons he could have

done it.

Mr. Johnston. Let ne jo back to the aircraft. I show

you Direccor Cable 8604 dazed 30 November '63, which is the

cable to Mexico City

about this fact, and I call your attentio

to the upper left hand corner which would indicate SAS, EOis

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 39

TOP SECRET.

PRIONE (A188

..

410 Firsi Strect, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

2]

22

23

24

25

is: the drafter of that?

Mr. Swenson.

"Uh-huh.

Mr. Johnston. And EOB is what office in SAS?

Mr. Swenson. I cannot recall what it meant right now,

nor can I

recognize the iditials.

Let me see Ir I can read this first.

(The Witness reads the document.)

Mr. Swenson. I'm sorry. Normally they would have put

down my own group here, SAS/CI. This apparently did not reach

me for some reason.

Senator Schweiker. What does that SAS up there mean?

Mr. Swenson. Well, the SAS referred to the task forcu,

really, Special Affairs Staff. They changed the name of ti

task force. And then the slash was to separate

it

from some

component, and I think that the EOB - they changed names --

I think that the EOB had to do with a staff which was trying

to engage in positive intelligence operations against Cuba,

things like AMCANOE and

AMLASil, but I really can't tell

yOU

the exact destination, but you'll note that it'did not come

to my staff.

ir. Johnston. Let me ask you, did you receive infosal.

avout a Cuban-American by the name of Gilberto Policarpo Lup

Mr. Swenson. At the time the name does not ring an:

recollections.

(Discussion off the record.)

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 40

TOP SEGRET

202:

WATID A FAUL

C

€10 First SIraGe, S.F., Washington, D.C. 20007

1

2

5

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

15

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr:

"Johnston Cilberto. Lopez croased the borer from

3 sh

Texas into Mexico on the 23rd of November. The border had been

closed by Mexican authorities on the 22nd, after the assassi-

nation. He went to Mexico City, arriving there on the 25th

of November, and on the 27th of November departed as the only

passenger on a Cubana airline flight to Havana.

Do any of those facts --

Mr. Swenson.

They really don't register with me now.

Mr. Johnston. Do you ever recall being consulted about

that trip?

Mr. Swenson.

I simply have no recollection at all.

Mr. Johnston, Could you have made a contribution on tine:

Mr. Swenson. I would have, let's say, searched through

the computer runs to see if such an individual had ever been

a contact of Cuban intelligence service. Other than that, i

don't know what I could have done because in Mexico City there

were people who were there for that purpose.

Senator SChweiker. Mere is one of the copies we are

talking about. We just wonder if it helps you to recollect.

(The Witness reads the cucumenit.)

Me. Swenson. The only ching i can say, Senator, is

when they mentior. ODENVY, which is the Bureau, if it was a

Cuban affair, any discussion "ith the Bureau should have been

through me. I do aot now have any recollection of this.

Senator Schweiker. Here is one referring to somethiny

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 41

TOP SECRET

Phone lAraz

WATO & PAUL

410 First Street, 5.F., Washington, D.C. 20001

1

2

5

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1&

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

about his activities in Los Angeles.' At that particulat time

he was coming out of Miami, as I recall.

Mr. Johnston, Let me correct for the record. Initially

they have identified - they thought he was the same as

Gilberto Lopez who was in los Angeles. Subsequently they found

it was not true.

Mr. Wallach. Who did you deal with at the Bureau? Did

you deal with Papich or did you deal with someone directly?

Mr. Swenson. Usually Papich stopped in my office every

day, every working day.

Mr. Wallach. Did you have any direct contacts with

anyone at the Bureau in the Donestic Intelligence section?

Mr. Swenson. I think someone else came over

one tine.

don't remember his name, a young fellow who is far lower in

category than Sam.. The only times I dealt with other people i:.

the Bureau were on those occasions when we had to cooperate

in a joint operation such

as their transferring an agent to me

who was going to send him back to Cuba, that sort of thing.

Hir. Wallach. Prior to the assassination, or

inmediate:

after tne assassination, did you ever sit in on any of the

meetings where Bureau

persons were present and Cuban policy "

generaily discussed?

ir. Shenson.

i did not.

Senator Schweiket. We came across some documents in the ?.i

that as of about 1961, that the FBI had surveilled about 200

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 42

TOP SECRET

egents, or 200 potentlal agenta who were with the fair Play for

Cuba Committee as possible Cuban intelligence personnel.

Does this ring a bell with you, and what do you recall about

the information supplied to you by the FBI on the Fair Play for

Cuba?

80÷"

MARD A PAUL

5.€., Washington, D.C, 20003

• 1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

.3

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

22

24

25

Mr. Swenson. Well, we received a great deal of information,

Senator, from the Bureau about people like this who might be

sympathetic to Cuba. I was not interested in a positive

operation, by function, unless there was a Cuban intelligence

connection, unless there was a way that I could use that to

penetrate the Cuban intelligence service. Other staffs were

interested in it for other purposes, for debriefing them, for

positive intelligence, and anything that could be gleaned, sor:

of a vacuum cleaner approach. My approach was strictly --

Senator SChweiker. Penetration.

Ms. Swenson. Penetration of the Cuban intelligence

service, of protection of our own resources.

So I did not get involved in

that.

Now, had one of those individuals had a meeting with a

known Cuban intelligence officer, then I vould have been

concerned

and

would have become invoived.

Senator Schweiker. Do you recall after the assassinatio.

the cuban policy reviar that was initiated by the Director,

after the Kennedy assassination, a review of the whole Cuba:

kolicy of the CIA?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 43

20-.

C.

5h070 (Area 207)

WARD A PAUL

#10 Firsi Street, S.E., Washingion, D.C. 20003

1

2

4

8

10

2:

12

13

14

15

16

17

1€

19

26

2:

22

2÷

24

25

TOP SECRET

40

Mr. Swenson. P'i have a vague recollection of it, but only

a vague recollection,

Senator Schweiker. Do you recall what form it took or

just how it was done?

Mr. Swenson. Well, my best recollaction was that he wanted

to be sure that no one had been remiss, and he wanted to take

a look at the scope of the operation before, and whether it

should be maintained at the same level and things of this

nature. I was not directly involved. My own staff's function

was clearcut, and up until the time I left, continued in the

same form.

Senator Schweiker.

was this done through written report

to the Director, or now was this done?

Mr. Swenson. I customarily -- this is a management

procedure in my own staff - kept track of how we were doing,

what we spent, what we needed, and how effective we were,

and I don't recall any special effort at that time to give

more than I had already dore. I think they could nave taken

any one of the reports

that I submitiad, and it would have

cresented the situation as of the ime.

Senator Schweiker. After the review was

completed, diu

the Director sond out an internal directive as to the future

Caban policy?

Mr. Swenson. Senator, I just don't remenver.

I am sorry.

Senator Schweiker. Did you have any specific dealings wit

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

TOP SECRET

* {Arou

C.

MARD EPAUL

410 Firs Sleper, 3.f. Washanalor, D.. 10003

1

2

3

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

24

25

Alpha 66, any recollectiona of

agents?"

Mr. Swenson. I remember the name, and that is all, Senator.

Senator Schweiker. No specific case.

Mr. Swenson. I don't recall anything specific. If there

had been somebody who was incidentally a member of that group

who would have had a connection with Cuban intelligence, I

would have looked into it, but I don't remember now.

MI. Epstein. What did you mean by the word remiss, that

part of the reassessment of Cuban policy involved the study of

whether you had been remiss?

Ma. Swenson. I think the then Director Mecone then wante

to make sure that nobody had dropped the ball.

For exampia,

he wanted to know what information had gonecto the Bureau,

what information the Bureau had sent us, and where it was.

Mr. Epstein. You mean with respect to Oswald?

Mr. Swenson. Yes.

ir. Epstein. Were any deficiencies found as a resuit?

Mr. Swenson.

Not that I know of.

#r. Dostein. Would that be a different kind of review

than i policy review?

sir. Swonson. Oh, yes.

tr. Epstein. well, I'm splizzing it into ino categoria:.

In Othur norus, did se miss

something?

Sa. Svenson. Well, it would be different. I mean, when

the President is assassinated, every bit of effort which coul::

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 45

;.....

WARD A PAUL

410 First Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 5000}

1

2

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

'16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

7120

TOP SECRET

be brought to bear was brought to

bear, to look for anything

which pertained to it. I drew a blank. I didn't find anything.

Mr. Epstein. What I'm asking you is were there two types

of -

MI. Swenson. There were two different things.

Mr. Epstein. Two different types of assessment made. One

would be what should this agency's policy or this government's

policy be with respect to Cuba, 1.e., what kinds of operations

should we run hereinafter, and two, did we drop the ball in the

past?

Mr. Swenson. Well, I would say that this sort of reasses..

ment was probably done, and Des Fitzyerald was probably invoi:.

in it at this time. I don't recall that I made any particular

contribution.

MI. Epstein. Do you recall whether that included any

assessment of the possibility of the AMLASH operation having

been compromised?

Mr. Swenson. No, I can't recall anything specific abou:

it.

Nr. Johnston. Let me ask - i show you a document

dated 23 Noverber 1963, which is a nemorandum for the Acting

Deputy Director of plans from the acting Chief of the Sa

Division, which was in Mr. Angleton's staff, and the subjoe:

the contact of Lee Oswald with a member of soviet KGB assas::

nation department. The contents I don't think are of gicat

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 46

#10 F1P11 Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

P8I00070

1

2

3

4

5

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

22

24

25

bearing to you except for the fact that that document mainly

1s a two-page analysis of the possible significance of Oswald's

possible contact with Kostikov and possible Soviet involvement.

My question is, given the fact that the Soviet experts in

counterintelligence would do an analysis like this, why was

not SAS counterintelligence doing a similar analysis?

MI. Swenson. I can hardly tell you more thanil have on

that subject: I simply had a continual function of looking

at all operations of the Cuban intelligence Bervice. I could

not have done any more than I was doing, so I continued doing

what 1-- I never recall seeiny this.

Mr. Johnston. Did you receive any orders to first of ii:

investigate the connection between AMLASH and the Kennedy

assassination?

Mr. Swenson. No.

fix. Johnston. Did you receive any orders to conduct an

investigation into the Kennedy assassination?

Mr. Swenson.

No.

Mr. Jonnston, Diú you receive any orders

to cooperate

either with Mr. Whitten's investigations or ar. Angioton's

investigation?

Me. Swenson. lio. ly cooperation vould have been give::

had it been asked for.

Senator Schweiker. When you interviewed Anship, what

deductions did you draw out of your interview with A-WHIP

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 47

t...

C.:

C.

410 For Street, S.E., Washmgion, D.C, 2000%

1'

2

4

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

13

20

21

22

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

about possible: linkage between AMLASHtand the Rennedy assassi-

nation?

Mr. Swenson. I didn't draw any specific conclusions that

I can recall, benator da alan's think he was a very impressive

or true to form indiviaual.:

Wat 7:

Senator schwelker. Did it confirm in any way your fears

that Castro might have had knowledge of AMLASH's operation?

MI. Swenson. No, sir.

Senator Schwelker. So you drew no conclusions from your

briefing?

Mr. Swenson. Well, this is a long time later, but so

far as I can recall, my conclusions were that he was a person

prone to exaggerate his importance, and that a lot of it was

sort of gossip, and that he was not really what I would have

considered a very effective agent.

Mr. Johnston, Were you aware of the polygraph of ANNHli?

MI. Swenson. I cannot recall now.

NI. Johnston.

were you aware that the polygraph indica:"

deueption on questions related to his ties to cuban intelligeni

and AMLASii's ties to Cuban intelligence?

Mr. Swenson, I'm really drawing a Blank on this now.

don't know.

MI, johnston. Nere you interviewed in 1967 by an Inspect:

General in connection with the report of the Inspector Geme..:

office on assassination plots?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 48

WANES &

410 FIrsl Street, S.E., Washengton, D.C. 20003

2

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

16

19

20

2:

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Mr" Swenson.

1967207

Senator Schweiker. For the IG investigation.

MI. Swenson. No, because I would have been in Europe

at that time.

• Mr: Johnston. Did they come to Europe to talk to you?

Mr. Swenson. No.

Mr. Johnston. Did you come back to talk to Mr. Earman

or anyone in the Inspector General's office about --

Mr.

Swenson. No. When I came back from Europe, which was

about the time that I had said I intended to leave the Agency,

I had a meeting with the IG at the time, with a number of

people, who tried to persuade me to stay, and I said i was

not interested in staying.

There were no specifics that were raised in those discus-

sions.

Mr. Johnston. You don't recall beiny interviewed about

assassination plots?

Mr. Swenson. Absolutely not.

Mr. Johnston. Were you knowledgeable of the CIA dealings

with the Mafia and attempts to assassinate?

Mr. Swenson. Long after the time.

Mr. Johnston. Not at the time?

Mr. Swenson. Lony after the time.

Mr. Epstein. How long afterwards?

No. Wallach. After the assassination?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 49

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRE

Mr. Swenson. Long after that?

N: 100%

Mr. Epstein. While you were still in Washington?

Mr. Swenson.

Probably after I left Washington. I think

ii..

I probably might have heard some what you might call scuttlebutt

about it, second or

third hand comments about it, but I didn't

have any real specific knowledge about it.

Mr, Epstein, How did you come to be consulted on the

AMLASH problem?

MI. Swenson. I don't think it was a matter of my being

consulted. I think it was a matter of my expressing doubts abou:

the AMLASH operation.

MI. Epstein.

How did you learn of it, do you remember

that?

Me. Swenson.

Because his name came up . names would

be run through my shop to see if there was a bearing on

Cuban intelligence operations, and I had debriefed Cuban

intelligence officers, that is, interrogated them in depth and

had extracted as much information as I could, and one of the

persons concerning

whom I got information was he.

Mr. Epstein. And that information was that he was n0i

reliable?

MI. Swenson. I felt there was good reason to doubt i

reliability.

Mr. Epstein.

so you would be preparing a response to fi

name check request,

is that how you would come to learn of

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 50

MAMO STANL

$10 First Strael, 5.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

47

ithey were Interested?)

I'm still not quite clear on how you learned they had

the assassination plot.

MI. Peloquin.

Can we go off the record for a second?

Senator Schweiker. Sure.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Swenson. Mike, trying to answer your question, wher

mattera were surfaced at ataff meetings at which I was present,

I expressed my views. and I would do my homework and I would

go back and check any things which came up. Aciditionally whe:

I was interrogating intelligence people in the course of

debriefing them as thoroughly as possible, I would disseminate

that information io other people on the staff, and I believe

that the AMLASH, the results of my debriefings on AMLASH and

the purposes for which they intended to use him, I had come

up on both these contacts that I had obtained

information

concerning him that was not all favorable, and that at a stasa

meeting his

name was mentioned.

iLE. Johnston. Are memos prepared on shose staff ccings:

it. Swenson.

no, they gererally were not.

Mr. Johnston, You don't have any record of what transpires!

Mr. Swenson. o, because gencrally staff meetings were

neld every day, and

the cables which came in which vere

considered appropriate for discussion were discussed. If there

was anything that you nad to note

for your purposes, you did

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 51

Phona (Arta 202)

MARD & PAUL

410 First Street, 5.E., Washington, D.r., 20003

2

3

5

6

?

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

1.7

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

LOP SECRET

it." But there was no formal

MI. Wallach.

Who decided what cables were to be discussed

or the topic of discussion?

MI. Swenson. Well, I would raise any cables which had

counterintelligence importance, and which I considered

should be discussed with other people, you know. If we had

staff meetings all day long, we wouldnit get anything done.

Mr. Wallach. Was Helms ever present at any of these

staff meetings?

Mr. Swenson. No.

Mr. Epstein. Did there ever reach a point in time when

you received an indication from debriefing

intelligence offi

or in any other way that specifically the AMLASH assassination

plot against Castro had been compromised?

Mr. Swenson. No. I can't recall any specific.

Mr. Epstein. Do you recall any discussion surrounding

the Castro speech at the Brazilian consulate relating

to the

question of whether sone CIA operation had been compromised

and that that is what Castro was referring to?

Me. swenson. I don't recall and i have no specific

recollection of that, no.

Mr. Epstein. Followiny the assassination of President

kennedy, I think you have testified that there were stars

meetings at which you were

present and which the issue of

retaliation

was --

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 52

TOP SECRET

ботор...

6.:

HARD A PAUL

410 First Street, S.E. Washington, D.6. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

13

20

21

22

23

24

25

Mr: Swenson.

I-8.

Bat had no specific recollection.

But I would assume now that that might have been mentioned.

Mr. Epstein. Was there. any

specific investigative

responsibility or counterintelligence responsibility levied

or divided or assigned at those meetings with respect to

determining whether or not the Cuban government was involved

in the

assassination?

Mr. Swenson. I can't recall any specific requirement that

was levied on me for example, but it really wasn't necessary.

I mean, it was

an obvious thing which I would look for to

see if there was anything. This was

part of my ongoing

responsibility, and I never found any relationship.

Mr. Epstein.

Was

an

instruction issued to the wAvE

station to determine that issue?

Mr. Swenson, Possibly. I have no recollection. Possibiy

it was.

Mr. Epstein. What I'm getting at nore is the question

of whether or not that is

a logical issue

to arise

in debriesi

and a logical issue

to

be handled by the counterintelligence

veogie it it comes up in the avurse oi a contact with a soure:

or an asset as distinguished from specific instructions to

contact all known sources, informanis, assets, and operations

to determine any and all information bearim

on that issue.

Mr. Svenson. I simply cannot recail anyching specific e.

the subject,

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 53

PRiOrse (ArBs 202)

07

410 Forst Shrert, 5.E., Wishingion, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

Mr. Epstein.

You don't'recall that kind

of an instruction

being issued.

MI. Swenson.

No.

MI. Epstein. Do you recall any discussion or decision

to: involve or to run a counterintelligence operation specifically

designed to determine that fact?

Mr. Swenson.

NO.

Mr. Epstein. Was it ever considered?

MI. Swenson. I can't recall that any such was considered.

REally, good

counterintelligence operations depend

on having

something tangible which you can use. So if there was ever

an opportunity for any counterintelligence operation, I woul

examine it in the light of the approach which was

feasible

how we could exploit it to the maximum degree. I cannot

recall that there was ever an opportunity to do anything whic.

would throw light on the Kennedy assassination.

Mr. Epstein, With respect to the connection between thi

CIA and the underworia figures with respect to the assassir:

plot.

fir. Swenson. i knon nuthing about that at all, stricti

hearsay long after chia.

12. Epstoir. i vould lika your nelp in understanding

that kind of an operacion wouid

nave buen asoful the

knowledge of that kind of an operation and the details oi

who was involved in it would not have been useful or relew..

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 54

TOP SECRET

PIOTrA (ArRa 207)

WARD A

PAUL

410 Pm. 5sree1, S.E., Washragion, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

6

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1₴

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

from a counterintelligene standpoint in order for you in your

Lar are a

general business to determine what' sources the Agency had, what

assets they had, and if a person was in a position --

Mr. Swenson. I believe it might have been relevant, but

it was never discussed with me, and to the best of my knowleüge,

underworld contacts had occurred prior to the Kennedy assassi-

nation and prior to the time. that I became chief of Counter-

intelligence.

Mr. Epstein. Were you aware of who those cantacts were?

Mr. Swenson. At the time?

Mr. Epstein.

Right.

Mr. Swenson.

No. I read about it ir the newspapers.

Mr. Epstein.

Were you aware at that time that there were

contacts?

Mr. Swenson. At that time, no.

Senator Schweiker. Have you finished your point, Mike?

Mr. Epstein. Yes.

Senator Schweiker.

Can you just very briefly recall

what Iclationship did General bansâale and MONGOOSE have to

you relationship functionally, organically, or structura.!:?

Mi. Swenson.

I would say there was none, Senator.

Senator Sciveiker. "one?

What he was doing, I have heard different versions or

how

it was

ser up and one version was tiat at one point

was overall coordinator, includiny the CIA component. Tho

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 55

TOP SECRET

PhOns 14:88 202) 5187

r..:

0

WARO A

PAUL

410 Forse Street, 5.6., Wastunalun, D.C. 20003

1

4

5

6

7

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

1a

19

20

2:

22

23

24

25

other version

I have is that he was really working primarily

with Defense and State and other non-CIA agencies in his

MONGOOSE work.

What is your best recollection of that?

Mr. Swenson. I had no occasion to meet with him or

participate in any discussion with members of his group, but

Des Fitzgerald certainly knew him and met with him. There was

no, let's say, reporting function by anybody in the Agency that

I knew of to bansdale.

Senator Schweiker. In other words, Des Fitzgerald -

Mi. Swenson. Dia not report to him.

Senator Schweiker, or a regular basis or rather not

regular basis? In other words, it was sort of a separato

operation from what you recollect?

Mr. Swenson. My best recollection --

Senator Schweiker. And just coordinated.

Mr. Swenson.

Yes.

kir. Johnscon.

Let me ast you first of all, was Raui

Roa, Ji. -=

in. shenso::.

Was be inal?

ir. Johnston. bal, or was he suspected of being düi?

ir. Swenson. I was vecy hazz on that. I was very

interested in foul loa, ür., because possilly he could

provido useful inteiliyence, but 1

cannot recall that sir.

was anything that reaiiy indicated he had an intelligere.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 56

TOP SECRET

Trona (Aras 202}

MAND A PAUL

410 Fust Streel, S.E., Washingion, D.C:. 30003

2

3

4

5

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

2C

21

22

23

24

25

function.

Mr. Johnston. How about Carlos Lachuga, who was Raud

Roa's successor at the United Nations, was he DGI?

Mr. Swenson. I think there was suspicion that he was,

but I don't think we had positive information.

Mr. Johnston. Do you recall the name of Charles Santos

Bushe, who was one of the founders of the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee?

MI. Swenson. It doesn't ring a bell with me now.

MI. Johnston. Let me ask you finally, dia Mr. Fitzgerald

have a principal deputy on Cuban matters?

Mr. Swenson. Well, you're talking -- you see, Des :

Fitzgerald' for a time succeeded Bill llarvey as Chief

of the

Task Force when it became Special Affairs Staff. Subseguer::

the Special Affairs Staff was reincorporated in the wh

Division. At that time Des Fitzgerald became the Chief of

Wll, and john Hart became the Chief of the SAS component. So

SAS became like bigger than any branch, but still responder:

co Chief, WH, which it had not before.

Me. Johneton. In dovenber 1963 did he have a principa.

deputy?

Mir. Senson. Novenber of '63?

I don't think so, no.

senator schweiker.

Does a cuban intelligence agent

the name of Ruiez, R-gri-: ring any bell with you?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 57

TOP SECRET

PORA (ArR5 202) 34

17...

ten.

MAKO A FAUL

1108uss career. of, Wastington, D.C. 20001

2

6

10

11

12

13

1.4

15

16

17

1€

19

20

2:

22

2ü

24

25

Mr. Swenson: Ruiz?:

Senator, it doesn't ring a bell with

me now. At the time it might have, I don't know. It is a rathor

common: nane, Senator.

Senator Schweiker. So you wouldn't know offhand if that

was a particular Cuban in the intelligence organization.

MI. Swenson. I wouldn't know.

Senator Schweikes. There's an allegation that he was in

Dealey Plaza that day. I want to make clear it is just an

allegation.

Mr. Swenson. I have no recollection.

Mr. Wallach. Do you have a recollection of any suspects:

Cuban agents being in the jaiias are. the day of the assassi-

nation?

Mr. Swenson. No.

Mr. Wallach. Not that they had anything to do with the

assassination.

Mr. Swenson.

I do not.

Hr. Hallach, Lee me go jaci i second to a line of

questioning that Mu, rustein was askiny before.

Do you rocall at any or the aberingo, the staff meetan:

or otherwise, immeclacely after the assassination, ind

shortly afoor the assascinatio: o: President Kennedy, wheth.

there was any discussion as to s, wether the CIa had

jurisdiction to lock into the assassination and to invos...::

the assassination, or i, whether it was just the FBI's job

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 58

TOP SECRET

Phona (Arat 202)"

o..

03

810 Forsl 511ee1, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

4

5

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

2:

24

25

and that the CIA would respond to any requests from the FBI.

In all fairness -- well, I'm sorry. Just go ahead

and

answer the question.

Mr. Swenson, Well, I remember we had a number of

discussions, many of which were informal at the time.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Swenson. In answer to your question, there were

never discussions as to. who does what and so forth, but

let's say it"

was very clear in my mind as to where, what the

Agency's role was

and what the Bureau's role was.

Mr. Wallach. What was that?

ir. swenson.

lell, the Bureau was concerned, in my view.

with Domestic Intelligence, and we were supposed to be conco.

with foreign intelligence.

M=. Wallach, We have heard testimony from other high leve

CIA officials stating that insofar as they weresconcerned,

the investigation of:the assassination of President Kennedy

was

an FBI matter.

Was that ever told to you or discussed in your presenes.

Mr. Swenson.

I ion's think anybody had to toll me, ir

I would assume that this was discussed at the time. E was

certainly a mauter of interest to me.

I saw San Pagich

daily.

I fali sure nat it was primarily the Bureau's jari.,.

diction to investigace within the United States, yes, and

my sole would have been to see if there was anything that !

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

TOP SECRET

Piano (Ards 202) 5-6

1

3

4

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

29

20

2.1

22

23

24

25

could contribute from the atandpoint of Cuban Intelligence

connections,, or possible connections.

MI. Wallach. But as your role vis-a-vis your normal

job, and any information you may have picked up, is that

correct?

Mr. Swenson:

What do you mean by my normal job?

Mr. Wallach. Well, let me go back.

Did you ever receivej.or.are.you ever aware of anyone

ever receiving in the CIA opecific instructions to investigate

the assassination of President Kennedy?

Mr. Swenson. That has been asked before, and it has beer:

answered.

Mr. Wallach. Well, I'm asking it insofar as you are

concerned, was

it ever issued anywhere?

Mr.

Swenson.

(Nods in the negative.)

Mr. Wallach. I take it you are not aware of any

investigation conducted by the CIA.

Mr. Swenson.

And I don't specificaily recall whitten's

heading the particular group.

Senator Schweiker. ur ingleton?

Mr. Swenson.

Or Angluton. I do recall making sure

that the information which had

cone to me or passed throug:

nic, that thore was nothing wich ind been left out.

Me. Walloch.

Did you tell Papich about AMLASH?

Mr. Swerson. I dun't think so.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 60

PROME (4/02 202}.

8.39 w

ai.

WARD A PAUL

410 First Sleeti, 5.E., Washenuton, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

57

1

2

3

4

5

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

2:

24

25

Mr. Wallach. Do you know if Papich knew about AMLASH?

Mr. Swenson, I don't know.

Mr. Wallach. Is there a reason why you didn't tell him

about AMLASH?

MI. Swenson. I don't think that was the type of informa-

tion which I would have discussed with him.

Mr. Wallach. Who might have discussed that type of inior-

mation with him?

Mr. Swenson.

Des Fitzgerald. Sam's normal contact withi::

the Cuban task forcevor SAS was myself, but there were times

when he talked to Des or Des talked to him.

Mr. Wallach. Do you know whether or not the bureau at

any time until recently knew about the AMLASH operation?

MI. Swenson. I don't know. I would doubt it.

Mr. Johnston. Let me ask you just one last question, and

I guess we've gone through pretty much your testimony about !:

and jour concept. Let me restate what I think you have

testified, and that is that at least in your mind, that you

drew a connection, the possibility of à conneccion betweer.

the illisH operation and the assassination at president

Kennedy.

Ar, Swenson. I moulin'e pot it quite that way. that

means to say was that mithout a specitic recolloction, car:

wouid tie che two togethur, "y role was to consider all

possibilities, and 1 think I wouid have considered that

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 61

TOP SECRET

PhonE (Ards 202) 54

073.0m

WARD &

410 First Sireel, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

1

2

3

4

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

19

20

2

22

22

2÷

25

among others, but I don't recall anything specific relating

or tying the two together.

Mr. Johnston.

Would you quarrel with individuals who had

the same knowledge you did - and you have testified that they

did not draw such a connection?

Mr. Swenson:. That they did not draw a connection?

Mr. Johnston. Yes.

Mr. Swenson. I couldn't quarrel with them, no.

Mr. Johnston. In other words, you think knowledgeable

officials, knowledgeable of both the Kennedy assassination

investigation and of the AMLAS! operation

Mr. Swenson, I think it would have been logical for

them to consider that there could be a connection and to

have explored it on their own.

Mr. Johnston, But therefore you say it would not

seen

logical for ther

to testify they drew no connection.

Mr. Swenson. Well, I'm not sayiny tnat.

Pit. Peloquin.

Lei me just say that i think it is a

semantic difficulty there.

Mr. Swenson. Plainl: spuring, everybody's imaginatio:

is sifferent. My job, I hac nany, many years in intelligenc

going back to pre-pearl darbor, so perhags i haù a devious

mind

so I would consider such things. i chink that many you.

just never considered it.

is. Johnston. Finally, let me ask you, knowing that cin

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

PROna (Aras 202):

164+

# 10 Fresl Street, S.E, Vassinaton, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

1

2

3

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

10

17

19

20

22

23

24

25

had a special group to investigate the Rennedy assassination,

I ask you how they could have conducted that investigation

thoroughly if, A, they didn't know about the AMLASH operation -

MI. Swenson. I really can't respond because I can't

remember the group or what they did, or I can't recall any.

with them about it..

Mr. Johnston. As a counterintelligence expert, could you

have conducted an investigation if you did not know about thu

AMLASH operation?

MI. Swenson. I think I would have considered it had I

had that role. I didn't nave it.

Senator schweiker. I gave you a wrong name there.

about Raul Diaz, i-a-u-1, D-i-ant, as a Cuan intellijence

agent.

MI. Swenson. I think he might haveubeen, Senator.

The

name sori of stirs a faint recollection.

Senator Schweiker. The name was incorrect before. Theid'i

an allegation that ho was at Dealey Plaza. If he were there,

pictured

sonewnere, would you attach much significance to :.

01

not?

Me. Swenson. I woulün't knon, Seratos, wichout knee::

more abodi his

backgroand. "'ü have to see what sort oi

relationship he had to Cuban intelligerse.

• senator schweikes. Dia you ever hoar of a dorris

Bishop or Bishi? who was acting in some capacity with tir

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 63

TOP SECRU

60

Phono (Ared 202) 5

колоче.

MARD&

PAUL

1

2

3

4

5

6

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

410 First Street, 5.E.. Wastinaton, D.C. 20003

20

21

22

23

24

25

exile group?

Mr. Swenson. Moris Bishop?

Senator Schweiker. Bishop or just Bishop as a code name

or either the name of a Bishop or Morris Bishop?

MI. Swenson. I don't recall.

Senator Schweiker. It doesn't ring any bell at all?

Mx. Swenson.

(Nods in the negative.)

MI. Epstein. What other assasination plots, if any, were

you aware of against Castro that were being planned by the

.......

CIA other than AMLASH?

Mr. Swenson.

I think that was the only one that 1

personally knen about at the time.

I think there might have

been

one other. My stand was the same

on this generally.

Ms. Epstein. Did the other one have the same security

problem involved?

Mr. Swenson. I don't recall that it did. Really, I don':

have any keen

recollection of anything or this. If there wers

somethiny significant that

would have encegod, I would tell you

because i would have remembered it.

Mr. Epstein.

At any of the moetings or discussions that

followed President Kennedy's assassination, was any concern

ever expressed that an invescigation of possible cuban

ties might resuit in exposing the Cid's plou to assassinate

Castro?

Mr. Swenson.

Absolutely not. I con't thin. any friend o:

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 64

PROne (ArAs 202) 5

WARDS PAUL

A10 FIrst SPrees, S.E., Wastengion, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

6

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

247.

6 1

mine would have considered that at all. They wouldn't have

cared.

Mr. Epstein, They wouldn't have cared if the CIA's

plots to assassinate Castro were exposed?

Mr. Swenson. Not if that had a bearing on; the assassination

of the President. I'd say there was no attempt on the part oi

any people I knew to cover up anything which would be embarrass

ing, if that's what you're getting at.

MI. Epstein. Well, my question also relates to

your own

operation in investigatiny possible connections.

Would

Mr. Swenson.

Had I found & cunnection, I would have

surfaced it immediately.

Mr. Epstein. I understand, but in the decision as to wha:

leads to set out or what breadth to give to the exploration

of that issue, of what assets to contact, would not an issue

involved in how broad to carry that be involved with

the questi

of wether it would compromisu an ongoiny CIA operation?

Mr. Swenson.

i suppose i would be an element. ! ti: tu!

consider everything if I'm joing it. But is would not hav

deterred me.

ir. Epstein, were toe Ayero, personnel attached to ic

Miami office aware of the securit; problems involving adans::

and the

possibility that that Ayener plot might have been

compromised?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 65

TOP SECRET

"hona (Ares 202) $68

c.n.

C.

a10 Frest Street, 5.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

2

3

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

21

22

2:

24

25

Mr. Swenson, I can't recall specifically. Insofar as

people located at the WAVE station who had any participation

or connection with it are concerned, I would have seen to

it that they were alerted concerning any misgivings I had.

Mr. Epstein. Would that haveincluded every person connected

with WAVE station that was interrogating Cuban intelligence

assets?

Mr. Swenson. well, I wouldn't have gone to talk to

everybody there, but there was a CI staff at the WAVE station

which reported to the then Chief of Station at WAVE, and in

a dotted line function roported to me, and I certainly looked

at everything that they were doing, and when I had misgivings

I would go there and express them.

Mr. Epstein. Do you remember discussing the possibility

of the insecurity of AMLASH being the subject of discussion

between you and the Chief of the WAVE station?

Mr. Swenson. I have no specific recollection.

Mr. Epstein. Did you have any contast wich the varie::

commission?

Ar. Swonson.

None.

Mir. Epstein.

Do you recaii who did?

Mr. Swenson. I do not.

Me. Bustein.

was any requiremont evar levied on you

for informacion bearing or the assassination to be supplier

the narzen commission?

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 66

ПОРА EATAR 202198

Dog.

WARE

C.

41B First Stoert, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

5

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

19

20

21

22

25

24

25

TOP SECRET

63

Mr. Swenson.

Not that I can recall.

Mr. Wallach. Were

you ever at any time learn or

pick up knowledge that Castro might possibly have

sent

teans

of persons into the United States, for sabotage missions or

otherwise, in mid-'63 or late '63 in retaliation for the

sabotage attempts against -

Mr. Swenson.

Not in retaliation, no.

Mr. Wallach.

Well, how about just for sabotage here?

Mr. Swenson. Well, I think he - the

teams which he

sent in of which I am knowledgeable, were sent for the purp

of intelligence

collection or penetration of anti-Castro "",.

within the United states.

Mr. Wallach, Were you ever aware, or are you aware this

sometime - I cannot recall the date, it was '61 or '62.

MI. Epstein.

'62.

Mr. Wallach, '62. they were run out of lew York, whic

was later intercepted, caught by the FBI, that there was

an assassination attempt being run by bol and certain persi

within the United States?

Is that a fair question?

Ni. Swenson, I think in 1962 ve didn't know there ta:

a DUI.

sir. Hailach. Cuban inceiligence.

Mr. Swerson, Well, what

they used to call cuban

intelligence whieh was, you know, our knowledye

early on i

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 67

Phone (Arad 202)

MARD

410 Ferst Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

]

2

4

5

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

• 14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

quite fragmentary.

We learned about the Cuban intelligence

function

whom I debriefed at great length, and I never got from hin

anything which is germane to what we are discussing here.

Mr. Johnston.

What was his crypt?

Mr. Swenson.

Mr. Wallach. In any event, the FBI did through a well-

known Cuban in New York City, intercede and stop assassination

plots against certain of the anti-Castro leaders.

Was that ever

called to your attention in '62?

Mr. Swenson. I can't recall

that.

Mr. Epstein.

Just one

more yeneral --

Mr.. Swenson.

It might have been prior to the time that

I went to the Counterintelligence

group.

sir. Wallach. Generally, can you describe for us fros

your knowledge, what you know, if anything, about the Mafia

or Hafia-run operations

in Cuba in '63?

Mr. Swanson.

No knowledgu.

Mr. Wallach.

No knowledye?

st:. Swenson. Absolutely none.

'r. Epstein. Was that an issue that was

ever considered

Dy jour operacion, thu possibility, not for assassination

purposes nosessoriiy -

12, stenson. I had no inowledge of it at that time, n:

I nould not have looked on it with great favor anyway.

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 68

Prono fArea 2029

MARIO EPAUL

410 Forsl Street, S.E.. Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

1

3

5

6

Mr. Epstein.'' You're saying your operation --

Mr. Swenson. I didn't know about it, had no connection

with it, and I have no firsthand knowledge.

Mr. Epstein. And it was never considered as a method of

counterintelligence activities by your

Mr. Swenson. Not by me, no, or my staff.

Senator Schweiker. Well, we want to thank you very

much.

10

11

12

I think we have pretty well exhausted ourselves.

I hope

you

are not. too exhausted, ir. Swenson.

We appreciate your

cooperation in coming

here this morniny.

Mr. Swenson. Very giad to have been here.

(Whereupon, at 11:52 o'clock a.m., tho interview in the

above-entitled

matter was concluded.)

14

15

16

1'1

18

2C

2

22

24

25

TOP SECRET

---

