# 157-10011-10119

## Page 1

157-10011-10119

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10119

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ELDER, WALTER, REVIEW STAFF

TO : BADER, WILLIAM

TITLE :

REQUEST FOR INFO RE WILEY, CHARLES IN!

DATE : 10/28/75

PAGES : 15

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENTS RE MILEY, CHARLES W.

TABASCAL, ENRIQUE EUGENIO (Y BERENGUER)

ARLINGTON HOUSE, PUBLISHERS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

SSCI Box 221, Folder 10

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50955

DocId: 32203887

Page 1

Date: 10/07/93

Page: 1

[R]

---

## Page 2

1.12:

K1617

VENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20508

INVENTORIED:

AN 3/12\22

ar.

Review Staff:

28 October 1975

75-3097/1

Record

Number

157-10011-10119

Mr. William Bader

Select Committee To Study

Governmental

Operations With Respect To Intelligence

Activities

Washington, D.C:

Dear Mr. Bader:

Attn: Mr. B. Wides

Reference is made to Mr. Jeffrey Kayden's recent

review of the Office of Security file on Charleswe

"Wiley land to Mr. Kayden's request for Wiley, documents

which were forwarded to the SSC via Review Staff

letter dated 2 October 1975.

Prior to Mr. Kayden's review of the Wiley file,

the Office of Security sent a memorandum to the DCI

highlighting several contraversial items in that

This memo was reviewed by the DCI

and he

requested that the

attached wiley reports plus the

Office of Security's assessment and processing there

of be forwarded to the Senate Select Committee.

Sincerely,

Want Elder

Walter Elder

Review Staff

Attachments:

As Stated

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASS 7051:

NANCIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

14. Dee L3

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975.

CIA

DILURET

CLASSIFiED IronMATION

Canet is.

207189

11...

283. 21

Tads become de de i

50955

Docia: 32203887

Page

2

---

## Page 3

R1697

SECRET

Reference is made to a memorandum, captioned as above,

dated 30 September 1975 forwarding copies

of certain documents

from the Office of Security files concerning Checles Wey.

These docunents

were requested by Mr. Jeffrey Kayden,

Senate

Select Cormittee Staff, who commenced a review of the Wiley)

files on 29 September 1975.

The Office of Security has concluded a separate review

of the Wiley files and has highlighted certain contents thereof

to the DCI.

The DCI has requested that materials concerning

the following items be provided to the Senate Select Committee

independent of any Senate Select Cormittee Staff requests, to

wit:

Lee Harvey Oswald

The

files contain a raw, unevaluated report

fron Wiley, containing his reporting of an alte-

gation that Lee Harvey Oswald was in New fOrk

City in the Winter of 1962, having contact with.

a Cuban.

(Attached to instant nemorandum, Tab

A, is

a copy of Wiley'S original report, and attendant

comments, suggesting receipt of the report circa

20: December 1963.

Readily available public and Office of

Security information concerning Oswald makes

no reference to the possibility of his being

in New York City in the Winter of 1962. The

Warren Commission did not pursue such a line

of inquiry.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIRCCTOM ANG/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

14 Der 93

(1) (A)

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 063344

59021

RECEIVED FROM

GCT 29 1975

CLA

HH 50955

DocId:32203887

Page

3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

There is no evidence in the wiley

files or

the file of the source, Enrique Fugenio Abascal

(y Be ronguer), #730643, that this information

was processed out of the Office of Security/

Security Research Staff, to which Wiley reported

the information.

However,

as Wileyl states in

the report:

"I urged Abascal to go to the FBI

with the information, and offered to arrange a

meeting. He promised to tell them the story,

and made contact through an agen't (0'Brien)

whom he knew because of past activities."

Regarding Abascal, his Office of Security

file contains the following concerning his

veracity:

Office of Security/Security Research

Staff memorandum dated 15 August 1960:

"Abascal has for several years furnished

information to SRS source which has been

proven to be utterly worthless and

usually fictitious."

Office of Security/Security Research

Staff memorandum dated 19 May 1965:

"(Abascal) has furnished source with

Intelligence information which appears

to be complete fabrication."

FBI letterhead memorandum dated

30 September 1963 captioned "Movimiento

Democrata Cristiano (MDC)" contains the

following statements about Abascall by

FBI SOUrCES:

"One would only have to

know Enrique Abascal to know that this

(a Life magazine article) was nothing

but a publicity stunt on his part and

that he has no importance

whatsoever in

the anti-Castro Movement."

"Sometimes

in dealing with Abascal,

one does not

know whether or not he should pity him

or try to afford him some kind of medical

assistance."

"Abascal) is

merely a pub-

licity seeker."

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

2

SECRET

CIA

HW 50955

DocId: 32203887 Page 4

---

## Page 5

It is apparent the Office of Security/

Security Research Staff had reason to

question the veracity of Abascall precluding

further dissenination of the information;

and that there was a reason

• to believe

that fbascal would report the information

so the FBI for their action. •

Arlington House, Publishers

The files contain a raw, unevaluated

report fron Wiley containing his reporting

of an allegation that CIA had partial

control of, and once attempted

full control

of, Arlington House, Publishers.

(Attached to instant nemorandum, lab B,

is a copy of Willay'soriginal report as well

as copies of attendant documents.

The files

contain no further clarification of the

information.)

There is no Office of Security subject

file in the name of Arlington House or

Arlington House, Publishers.

From other sources, it would appear

that Arlington House, Publishers is con-

nected with the conservative causes of

Willian F. Buckley and the National Review.

Buckley is a former Agency employee and

his close connections with former Agency

employee E. Howard Hunt have recently

received extensive publicity.

It is

believed that numerous

former Agency

employees are linked with Buckley's causes,

and this could be the foundation for the

rumored Agency involvement in Arlington

House.

RECEIVED FROM

QCT 29 1975

CIA

-

SECRET

ITT 50955

DoOd: 32203887

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

3.

Your

attention is again directed to the concerns of

the

Office of security,

as expressed in the referenced

memo

randun, that the wiley, file documents and all statements

contained therein, even though not classif the individuals

carefully and prudently handled

to protect

identified therein.

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

177 50955

DocId: 32203887

Page 6

---

## Page 7

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHEOK. CL

L'SALASSIFIED

FICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNFIDEYTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

i5AS

DATE

INITIALS

12:2ü-63

07/21

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Ferarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURY

SIGNATURE

siene

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

731W

2-51

57. 237

UNCLASSIFIED

Sse predicos editions

COXFIDENTIAL

SECKET

(40)

•US COYONMENT DATING OFFICE. 11E: 9-537133

CIA MAG DIE CRLTOTINBITO

DECLASSIFIGATIO

RELEASE OF THIS DO GuraiT

AS SANITIZED

14.Doc. 93

NH 50955 DocId: 32203887 Page 7

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

---

## Page 8

Information from da

Abas

aL. (II).

Ro: LEE HARVEY OSWALD. Abascal, met Oswald last winter

in Greenwich Village, New York City at the "Fat Black

Fussy Cat" (which was much less expensive than it 1s

nor, with fewer tourists). Abascall saw him there several

times with extreme leftist, peacenik types. He seemed

to be a

"loner"

their early thirties. (See below.)

but did associate with a couple in

The last time that (Abascal saw Oswald he got into a

conversation with him, and it almost ended in a fight.

Abascai, lost his temper and wanted to hit Oswald be-

cause of his strong communist position. He was very

pro-Castro and pro-Chinese Reds (but not

pro-Soviet Union).

what interested (Abascal most was that Oswald had no job

but still had sufficient money.

The couple Oswald associated with were quiet, but during

political discussions the man would feed Oswald key words

or bits of information when he was backed into a corner.

(Note. I urged Abascal to go to the FBI with the information,

and offered to arrange a meeting. He promised to tell them

the story, and made contact through an agent (0'Brien) whom

he knew because of past

activities.)

Sources from inside Cuba have reported that HERBERT MATTHEWS

and two Russians met with Fidel Castro several months ago

and

tried to convince him to step down in favor of a coalition

gov't. that Khrushchev and Kennedy had agreed on. Castro

refused to consider it. (Some Cubans think that Castro is

behind the Kennedy assassination - that he was acting to

block this deal which was to take effect before the 1964

election.)

In early Dec.

(see memo on my telephoned report for exact

publication

had just finished

a trio behind the Iron Curtain.

CIA HAS NO OPIECTION TO

DECLASS!""

NOR AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

14. DoC 93

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

MN 50953 Doeld: 32203687 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Esia in My.

8 Stady Born Rath

news popen in

Ling beaud inho

is he (Cavens Franke

crise)

9) Dras chas tarn

any 74B-552

ays Rudy, GEORgE

PERRY, distan (ar).

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

DFOL/ SOMCATION

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

UT ALL

I DO 73

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

NH 50955 DocId: 32203887 Page 9

---

## Page 10

12 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECI: Withy, Charlestiv

#343 589

A memorandum dated 12 March 1970 seems to pinpoint

the time period during which WilEY first made available to this

office a copy of Howard HUNT's manuscript, "Give Us This Day, "

as being early March 1970. The memorandum from

to C/SRS advised that WILEY had telephoned from

home that afternoon and had asked if we had received the copy !.

off "Hunt Ms. " (

told Wil EY that it had come in and

witeY asked whether he should attempt to determine any more

details concerning the origin of it.

_suggested that

WILEY: do nothing until we advised him. (Although

referred to it as the "Hunt Ms."' in his memorandum, it would

seem that WilEY: was not aware of the true authorship, at this

point). ENt

EX expressed concern for his friend in the publish-

ing house, who had "filched" the Ms., as he allegedly had

informed WilEY to be very careful with it. [

advised

that he informed WitEY that in all probability no decision would

be made on this for another three or four weeks.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOGUMENT

AS SANITIZED

14 De 23

(1) (A)

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

_HW 50955 DocId:32203887 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CIA HAS NE ARISTION TO

DECLACE

AND/OR

RELEASE G

- LOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

-14 Dec 93

In Jan 1967, Wiley prepared a nemorendun concerning Arlington House Publisherz

which, based or hearsay, indicated that a fight was going on for conirol of the

cospany. One runor was that Cli wanted to tale over contral. Apparently this

nemo. was again brought to the attention of C/SRS in April 1970 with the comment by

"In going through some of

old reports, I found this. Possibly

of interast in view of HUNt's manuscript." The buck slip was fleAl!/ marked "noted 2rd"

SER-INSeRT # 1.

In June 1970 when I was assigned to theltr0f/sR3, thereas a coay of Hung's

manuscript on the Bay of Pigs being retained in a safe in the C/bB0Bl's office. Some

time later I leamed that Wiel had apparently obtained it through a contact and

it

had forwarded/to thes office...as an iten of probable interest. The Agency was able

to ascertain the identity of the author, who turned out to be howard huNt.

HUNT

was, I believe, at that time enoloyed by the Agency with

In any case, he was

suproached under some guise and was convinced that it would be incopropriate for hin

to have the book polished at ahat time. HUNT's file probably contains details

which do not appear in old iRs records re Bulol. I believe some time later, CHoRS

100RR: 12/7/707//INOy took the copy from. I do not know what disposition he

made of it. It is my impression that this was an extre copy and that the copy

that had been loandd to wirty/ and through Maey

@ to SPS had been returned much

earlier as it was an accountable item for UMCiS contact. The publisher ray have

bron delingtor Publishers although this ds only a vague 8o? RECEIVED FROM

may here indicated that at some timo.

OCT 29 1975

and dated 2 Soot. 1970 17p7/8 for Ghiel, Exece and ?amias ClA ro

c/no-iubjeot: Signivia nt Accomplinhaento-EX 1920 statos under Soction 1B) Agency

Intority due para. (31-"During the reporting poriod,

3lcrto1

cho Agony to a manoript written by an Agoney analogne which

was circuintion

and toad tole Publisherse

hes result of this alort, agency

More

HW 50955 DocId:32203887 Page 11

---

## Page 12

bna 1

ACTLER ***HUNT

In a memo. dated 12 March 1970 70 C/SR.

advised that Emet had 211

telephoned from home that aftemoon and had asked if we had recsived the copy

"of the Hunt ris.

had told him it had come in.

asked whether he

should attemot to daterming any more details conserning the origin of it, ann

sugsested that lilty do nothing until la advised him. Quiley expresse

concern for his friend in the publishing houge, who had "filched" the Ms., as

he allegedly had informedulEY. to be very careful with it.

informed

put that in all probability no decision would be rade on this for another

three of four weeks.

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 28 1975

CIA

50955

DooId: 32203887

Page

12

---

## Page 13

sunder to retrieve sut copies

oi the Manuscript and withurav it imn the

publishars' market". I, supporting neno. identifies the manuterine da Howard At':

"Ciro Us this Day" -

CHi 19 June 1773, BluEY called to say that he had in his hands a cop se

Hountd Hurt's manuscript "Give Us This Day". I advised arub? that he had arobauly

forgotten but that we had had access to it several years ago won Hund subritted it

to a jitterent publisher. (autY reportedly had mado it available at thnt timo).

WiLbe said that he balieved that this publisher was gring to take advantage of ine

recent publicity (meaning WAlfGATE a yourently)and, of course, oring it out under

HUNT's tie none. I tole him I was sure that we had no interest in his. coy and that

he colli raturn it to the contuct who made it available to him. Thor vas no further

discussion on the matter and the meno, racording the conversation was routed, as was

the custon, to the C/S:3, who marely initialed it and sent it baci: to me.

I do not

kno:: if he took ang other action or reported it elsewhere.

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

1217

50955

DocId: 32203887

Page

13

---

## Page 14

- DATE.

FRANSIVITTAL SLIP

21 ADr. 1970

To:

D0:13

BUILDING

EMERKS:

.Ir

joing through sone of

oid rapores,

I found this.

Possibly

of interost

in vien of Hunt's

manuscript.

:ROM:

SO:NO.

ев 33 241

BUILDING

PEPLACES FORM FI

WHICH MAY ZELSEO.

EXTENSION

(47)

NN

50955

DooId: 32203887

Page 14

•CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 70

DECLASSIFIC/:

C'S/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZEU

14 Doc B

(1) (A)

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

---

## Page 15

TO

1

2

3

5

SENDER *ILL CHECK CLASSIFICAT

UNCLASSIFIED

TOP AND BOTTOM

CONFIDENTIAL/

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

C/SRS

Testinize

Ed Naire

7314

123-62

Leite

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Attocked F41 pim

2o

2.

Thaliere we should verify this statenent

(bara 2) fronl

including rurücer

il

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. AUDRESS AND PHONE NO.

i.

LACLISSIFIED

*2679 237

lse previous editions

COSFIDENILT

DATE

3/3/6

/SECRET /

(40)

NW 50955 DocId: 32203887

Page 15

;

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

BECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

14 Dec93

(0)(0)

RECEIVED FROM

QCT 29 1975

CIA

---

## Page 16

arlington Houss Publishers.

U33.

7057

Foi many months there has been a figar going on for contro

of irlington House.

Forces led by andy Richardson are

Involved in trying to take over from voil lebarfray.

one o= the

control= and that it is necessary for Cia to guan decadeza

the picture.

Randy Richardson,

because of ii3

association witn the Richardson Foundation and Frank

Barnett,

is considered by some to be involved with ClA

ectivity.

Frank heyer has attomoted to rally tho irfington House

subhors

- those who have receivea controots to write boos -

bohind NoCaffrey. He sent out a latter to all of the authors

subjusting that they taxe the stand that their contracts

are with lesaffrey persorally, not with ilington House as

Tris has area not with much cuposition,

primarilj because the authors foal that they could becomo

liniu to reture any monoy advancod to thom by árlington

Pouse.

jamos surcham's name vas linod in derer's letter

as supporting his position.

However, later Surziam sent

out his

om letter steting

that he considored his conterro

so so with arlingtor Horse, not MoBaífraj.

lobe: I have many contacts who auc involves in this

situation in ono way or another.

It rould not ba difficia

to set alaitional infomation is necossary.?

CIA HAS NO ORIFCTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

P. It Dec 93

RECEIVED FROM

OCT 29 1975

CIA

HW 50955

DocId: 32203887

Page

16

---

