# 157-10004-10112

## Page 1

157-10004-10112

Date: 06/26/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10112

RECORDS SERIES :

RADIOGRAM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, SAN JUAN

TO : DIRECTOR & SAC, MIAMI

TITLE :

POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

DATE : 12/08/58

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

CAYMAN ISLANDS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 50955

DocId: 32202001

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DECODED

COPY SECKET

SSCI BOX#

377-.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Radio

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Teletype

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS Suntiged. ComB,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

2-17-94

9803 RAd/pree 2:23-94(3Fk)

DEFENRED

12-3-58

Nir.

tol.

Ms. Neaso

Mr. Parsons -

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tarr

Me. Trotte:

Nir. M.C.S:

Tele. Ros=

Mr. Hollen.-

Miss Gond: -

1B

nel without the express

1

approval of the

your Committce and the content ma; not he disclosed

nation outside your Committer.

I'g rese

This document is prepared in response to

to unauthorized person

is limited to official proceedings bu

your request and is not for dissemi-

FROW SAU SAN JUAN

082135

CHARLES LIN NOREL, FETEIG POLITICAL MATTERS - GUDA (S3

ON DECENBER S, 1958, CIA

DEFICET. I

ADVISED

THAT ME HAD RECEIVED IMPORATION FROM. A USUALLY

RELTABLE SOURCE AND EVALUATED HIS INFORHATION AU RUCTE"PROBABLY

TRUE.' *

' ADVISED THAT BECAUSE OF THE RELATIONSHIP

THROUGH CHUN TNFORDATION ARGOBTAINED, NO ACTION CONCH RIGHT

COLF ROSE HIS SOURCE SHOULD BE TAKEN WITHOUT PRIOR CLEARANCE

FRU.. Mino

I

I SAID ON COTOBEI: 26, 1958 A BEECHCRAFT GIRPLE

PILOTED BY HONEL, A UNITED STATES CITIZEN, LANDED AT CAYMAN

ISLANDS' AIRFORT ITH THREE PASSLIGERS. HORMEL STATEO HE WAS

Oi FLIGHT FROL TA..PA, FLORIDA, TO THE CAICOS ISLANDS.

HOR EL

TOOK OFF THE FOLLOWING DAY GARRYING ONE PASSENGER IDENTIFIED

AS ALBERTO AND LEAVING OTHER TWO PASSENGERS ON CAYMAN ISLANDS

WITHOUT LÜGGAGE üM PASSPORTS. PASSENGERS LEFT BEHIND WERE ONE

ALBERTO CRESCENDO DE LA CRUZ

scithutL, GuAlzALAN LAYER, 1920

MeriGAE AVErUE, MAN, FLORIDA, AND OSCALDO ANTONIO CASTELL

Y VALDES, HONCURA PORTER AND EXFORTER, 1918 S. M. TiD AVEiLE:

MIARd, FLORIDA. ON MVL. BER 1, 1959 NOBERTO BIS RUK ARTIEZ

A SCHLDULED LAUSA FLIGHT FRO: INADO HE PASSED ONEY TÜ ME OEL

AND CASTELL, TELLING THE HE MAO BEEN SERT BY MOREL. MARTINEZ

I INFORNATION CONTAINES

FREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

TERE SHOWN GUHERWISE-

i.

1/0

сідети

DEC 8: 1 se b1.28gg

23.94

DEC MAY 20 1976

tay

9803-20d/ net

I!:

Declassity on: OAR/OF

REVIESED BY FBIUSK TASK dOCE'

pate intelligence co no pined in he are eryto apa te i neminated out

oldie/a suda, it is suggested shar it be sne

RELEASE IN FULI

SECRET

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HW 50955

DocId: 32202001 Page 2

---

## Page 3

: 168.3-25-58)

Rodio

DECODED COPY

SECRET

SSCI BOX i

377-1

Teletype

• Ms. Tolson

Mr. Belmunt.

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Nodso

Mr. Parsons

Mi. Rosch

Mr. Tomm

Mr. Trotter

Ms. W.C. Sul.:

Tele. Room

Mr. Hollomar -

Miss Gandy

PAGE T..O, FRC.: SAO SAiL JUANN

082135

ARAS, TOLUDING CHE ANTI - TARK RIFLE ANO SEVERAL SUB - MACHINE

GUNS, NO DISUOVERCO HEAR THE GAY ME ASTRIP. LIEDEL AND

ÜASTELL, NO HAD BEEN SERVED VITH DEFORTATIOR CADERS THE

FREVIOUS DAY, VERE QUESTIONED AND AC.ITTED THAT THEY HAD

UHLCAOEO THE

ARMS FAL. HOREL'S PLANE, HIDDEN THE HEAR THE

AIRSTRIP AND INTENDED TO DELIVER THEN TO CUBA.

CAVAL AUTHUNITIES SUSTECT ELT HAVE NO PEGOS THAT THEY TITLICO

TO STEAL A CAYM BRAC AIRLAYS TWIN - ENGINEO ARONAFT FROM

THE CAY. AÍ-NAGAARO FLY IT TO CUBA. HORNEL RETURNED TO THE

CAYMAN ISLAIDS FRO... FLCHIDA CH LOVENDER 9, 1958 IN A CHARTERED

I !SAND CAY MI

AUTHORITIES UDERSTANO THAT HORNEL 18 CH BAIL ON A CHANGE OF

VICLATING UITED STATES CUSTORS REGUALTIONS AND PLAN TO RETURN

MI.: TO THE UNITEO STATES. CAYAN AUTUCRITIES ASSUME THAT

HERENDEZ AND CASTELL ARE AGEITS OF THE 26TH OF JÜLY KOVE.EIT,

AND BELIEVE THAT BOTH ARE CUBAN CITIZENS. DURIG TiEIR STAY li!

CAYAN THEY RECEIVED ESSAGES (TEXTS UiKNO.M) FRO. THE FOLLOW:.

LADIESUALSES LUISUOGALES, 212 SA 18 COURT, MAI, FLONIDA,

AND DO. INGO FORTELE, 950 SW SECOND STREET,

APART.EIT 3,

FLORIDA. ICEOR ITION SET FORTH ABOVE 15 GLAS.IFIED SEGRET BY

CIA. KUC. ?

RECEIVED:

8:40 PM RADIO

8:50 Pil CODING UNLIT

CWA

AW 50955 DocId: 32202001 Page

3

RECEIVED FROM

MAY.

28 Di3

SECRET ORIGINAL DIRECTOR

001

enniaired in the above

messoge is to be disseminated outside the Bureas, is is suggested that i

erbweraphic systems.

---

