# 157-10005-10159

## Page 1

157-10005-10159

..:

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10159

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

SUMMARY OF COMPILED INFORMATION

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 55

SUBJECTS :

CIA RELATIONSHIP' WITH ROBERT A MAHEU

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 435-6

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 50955

DocId: 32202349

Page 1

Bx31

---

## Page 2

(

SECRET

Maheu was told he would receive $35 per day or $17.50 per half

day when his time was involved. He volunteered to place someone

in the Middle East for about one year and also noted that he had

two men on a training mission in the Dominican Republic.

In September 1956, Maheu told his contact in the Office of

Security that he had been approached to consider performing some

investigative work for the Dominican Republic. He was asked to

report fully to the Office of Security in the event he did travel

to the Dominican Republic,

Tru14110 was

informed on the matter (See Tab 3).

According to a report in Maheu's file of an FBI interview

with Allan F. Hughes, an associate of Maheu during this period,

Hughes, Maheu, and John Joseph Frank were involved in selling a

quantity of electronic and X-ray detection equipment to the

Dominicans in 1955-1956. Hughes told the FBI that he visited

the U. S. Embassy in Ciudad Trujillo in 1956 when he traveled to

the Dominican Republic to install the X-ray detection equipment.

During that visit, he reportedly informed the U. S. Ambassador

that Maheu had kept CIA fully informed of the equipment trans-

action with the Dominicans before and after its sale. In October

1957, a dispatch from Ciudad Trujillo transmitted information

concerning Maheu which the Dominican Government had passed to US

officials in an apparent attempt

to quash proceedings against

Maheu's

sometime associate, John

Joseph Frank. Frank, a Washington,

D. C.s

attorney whose activities

on behalf of the Dominican

Republic were under investigation, was indicted on 13 May 1957

5

01451

SECRET

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE DEFICE

HW 50955 DocId: 32202349

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(

SECRET

for violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938,

as amended.

Frank may have been the source of the information

passed by the Dominicans which alleged that Maheu had been

involved in violation of the Mann Act with the tacit approval of

the Department of State. Maheu's involvement in the Niarchos-

Onassis matter was also included in the Dominican material (See

Tab 2).

MI. Maheu contacted the Office of Security at this time to

advise that the Mann Act allegations were without foundation and

stated that he would take steps immediately to have his attorney

see that appropriate Dominican officials would retract the charges.

This was subsequently done. Edward Bennett Williams acted as

Maheu's lawyer in this matter.

n June of 1957

two DDP officers contacted the Director of Security and outlined

a project wherein they envisioned al

the rulers

In July of 1957, Robert Maheu was given this assign-

6

SECRET

01452

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSS

NW 50955 DocId: 32202349 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(

SECRET

ment. He used a trusted male employee of his organization (since

deceased) and the employee's fiance.

aken, only Maheu and the two participants were in the gludtel.

The project known as "Happy Days," was never completed and the

fun was not distribuged.

Files of this Office reflect that during the 1958-1959

period, DDP officers were put in touch with Maheu by the Office

of Security for assistance in another operation relating to the

This project was originated in May 1958 when DDP

officers initially contacted the Director of Security and briefed

him on the project. Basically, the project

Robert Maheu was given the

In August of

1958, the plan was concurred in by the DDP Chief of Operations and

7

SECRET

01453

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICA

WW 50955 DocId: 32202349 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(

SECRET

the DCI.

In September of 1958, Maheu and a CIA officer of the Office

of Security met with the attorney in New York

• City. The attorney

was briefed on Agency interest in the matter.

Records of the Office of Security do not reflect any of the

during the course of her mission.

sorte knowng

Consequently, the purpose of the mission

was not fulfilled.

response was giver:

01454

8

SECRET

A negative

PROPERTY DI

TUE WHITE MOH!:-

NW 50955 DocId: 32202349

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

(

In June of 1959,,

Maheu had been hired by a union leader

as a consultant for his Union.

On 7 October 1959, a covert security approval was granted for

Maheu's use in the United States

to

the United States is set forth in

Tab 4.

In August 1963, Maheu

was contacted in Los Angeles by a

Cover and Commercial Staff (CCS) officer for the purpose of re-

establishing communication regarding CCS interests after an

undetermined lag in such' communications. The report of that contact

is contained in Tab 6.

From 1964 to 1966, Maheu furnished public relations cover for

an Agency officer in contact with Soviet Bloc officials in this

country.

In 1966 information was received by the Agency indicating

that the Senate Administrative Practices Subcommittee, under the

9

SECRET

01455

PROPERTY OF

THE WHITE HOT.

NY 50955 DocId:32202349 Page 6

---

