# 177-10001-10445

## Page 1

177-10001-10445|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

8/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10001-10445

NSF, JOHN MCCONE MEMORANDA, MTGS. 6 JAN. 64-2 APR. 64, BOX 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

10 :

TITLE :

CIA

MCCONE, JOHN

DATE:

02/21/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

DOC. #12

v9.1

NH 50955

19

DocId: 32283348

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET-EYES ONLY

17=

20 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with the President - 20 February 1964 - Alone

1. I advised the President of my willingness to go with him and to meet

early in the day with General Eisenhower if he thought this would be

constructive. He said he felt General Eisenhower might feel he was being

high-pressured and that he intended merely to advise him of the plan to

surface the OXCART and exchange formalities. He would then tell him hé

was ordering me to go out and brief him in the next week or two and I

should make my own arrangements.

2. I told the President we had a very sensitive effective operation

working in Mexico City

which involved

telephone surveillance and was being done in a most careful manner with

his knowledge and with the assistance of a few of his trusted officials.

This had resulted in a very intimate relationship between our station chief,

3. I told President Johnson that we continued our interrogation of

Nosenko; our counterintelligence people were inclined to feel he was :

plant but had not made up their minds. President said he thought he was

probably legitimate and would give us some good information. I said I

hoped this was true - that we certainly were taking advantage of everything

that he did give us; that we were working closely with the FBI, however we

could only conclude at the moment that the Soviet's performance and

action were so different from any other defector case that our suspicione

had been aroused. The President asked to be kept informed.

4. The President then raised the question of Spain, suggesting I

might return to Spain to talk again to Franco. He said he was in a very

difficult situation because of announcement of the cut-off of aid to

Britain, France and Yugoslavia which he did not know about until he read it

in the paper, and that he was beside himself because he wanted to give aid

of $31 million to Spain but had the greatest difficulty in the justification.

SECRET-EYES ONLY

NW 50955 DocId: 32283348 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CRET-EYES ONLY

I told the President it was my impression from information gained from

clandestine sources that Franco had made some moves to curtail trade

with Cuba after my visit with him but that the Spanish companies were

endeavoring to circumvent his orders by various surreptitious methode.

The President asked that I study the matter carefully and speak to him

about it next week.

ACTION: I have asked Mr. O'Ryan to contact Noel

and I am asking Mr. Ball to contact Ambassador Woodward to

determine whether the Spanish had taken any actions which they

have announced or might communicate to us which would indicate

an intention of their part to curtail or restrict shipping or trade

with Cuba.

5. The President then said he wanted to do everything possible to

get me out of the cloak and dagger business. That he was tired of

a situation that had been built up that every time my name or CIA's name

was mentioned, it was associated with a dirty trick. He asked if our

economic studies had stood up and I said yes, they had, and that they were

reconfirmed and supported by an exhaustive article in TIME Magazine.

The President seemed pleased at this, expressed satisfaction in CIA's

operations but was most emphatic in his feelings that we should get away

from the cloak and dagger image and expressed a determination to bring

this about by statements he would make from time to time.

SECRET-EVES ONLY

JAM/mfb

NW 50955

DooId: 32283348

Page 3

---

