# 177-10002-10108

## Page 1

177-10002-10108

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

LBJ

177-10002-10108

NSF, INTELL. BRIEFINGS, 11/23-12/5/63, INTELL. CHECKLIST, BOX 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE: INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/24/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

DOC. #2

y9.!

HW 50955

2

DocId: 32205073

Page 1

---

## Page 2

THE PRESIDENT'S

INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

50955

DocId: 32205073

Page 2

2

24 NOVEMBER 1963

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 3

1.

North Vietnam -

South Vietnam

a. North Vietnamese leaders

are pressing their campaign for neu-

tralization of South Vietnam.

b. They can count on Cambodia's

support. Prince Sihanouk has said

he believes neutralization of South

Vietnam to be the only way to keep

is country and the rest of the are:

from falling eventually into Commu-

nist hands.

C.

The French feel the same

way.

d.

I the North

Vietnamese have talked Souvanna into

backing the neutralization proposi-

tion in the UN.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

50955

DocId: 32205073

Page

---

## Page 4

/C H I!N

• Kay

Ou

Lai Chau

© Phong Saly

PHONG SALY

BURMA

Muong

-- Namtha

Buck Ricer

d: Muong sà

I NAMTHA

§Ban Sop

Nein

LUANG

Sam Neudor

T, HOUA PHAN

Khang Khay_X

Phoi

Khoung,

Sayabourge

-® Khouang-C

KHOUANG

° Cua Rao

Muang Nan°

SAYABOURY

Ta Viang

2.

VIENTIANE

ọMuang

W8 Phrae Mur Son

VIENTINE

® Nong Khai .

KHAMMQUAN

uttaradit

Udon Thani!

Nhommärath

Muang

Thakhek

Nakhon Phanons

Dan Saig,

H

Muang Phitsanulok

A

L

A

Muang Sakon Nakho

N

D

.Mukdahan,

seno

avarinakhet

LAOS

Muang

oYasothon

International boundary

Province boundary

National capital

Province capital

Railread

Road

• track or trau

Muang Ubo

100 Miles

@BANGKOK

So Prakan

Samut oCtachoengsao

• Ban

Aranyaprathe

C

A

M BOD

• GULE.O!

Buri

stung Treng

Boundaries and names/ore not necessorily

cognize

J.S. Gi

C. HELYN

o Ha Giang

Cao Bang®

Bac Kand

PNing ming

Lang Son o

Thai Nguyen

Phu Lạng Thuộng,

HANOI

Hoa Binh

Phu Lyo

Duong

iLE CAC BA

* Ninh Binho

- Nam Diển

Thanh Hoa

GULf

•'..

~ CAP MUT RON

Dong®

Ho

Tchepone

AVANE

Saravane:

Ban

Thateng,

-) 8

1 Domarcation Line

Dòng Ha

Hue®

SOUTH

VIETNAMS

ATTOPEU

Bo Kharb:

HM 50955 DocId: 32205073 Page 1

---

## Page 5

!

-

2.

Laos

As part of the same campaign,

the North Vietnamese have told the

French they believe sentiment is

growing in the US for withdrawal of

us forces. They reportedly plan to

keep the heat on to encourage it.

g. Hanoi is at the same time

trying quietly to encourage the belief

that it is ready to be reasonable.

h.

North

Vietnamese Leaders feel that neutral-

ity for South Vietnam and

eventual

reunification is the only way they,

too, can escape from Peiping's clutches.

As is usual in Laos, the

tentative agreement for a cease-fire

reached last week between Kong Le

and Pathet Lao commander Singkapo

came to naught.

b. Each side accuses the other

of planning to use a cease-fire to

screen preparations for larger at-

tacks.

There is scattered fighting

in the Plaine des Jarres.

Lao Army,

neutralist, and Meo guerrilla ele-

ments are jointly engaged in a

limited offensive in the Vang Vieng

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

N7W 50955

DocId: 32205073

Page 5

---

## Page 6

3.

Cambodia

area north of Vientiane on Route 13.

They

hope to gain control of that

town

and its small airfield.

d.

We have been anticipating

an expansion of the fighting with

the recent advent of the dry season.

a. Sihanouk knows his actions

against us have increased his vul-

nerability to the Communist bloc, and

he is looking to the French to bail

him out.

He apparently hopes that

the availability of French aid will

enable him to keep his balance with

the Communists and fend off their

pressure.

d. The French have told our

Embassy in Paris that plans are

afoot for French Defense Minister

Messmer to go to Cambodia in January.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

NN 50955

DooId: 32205073

Page 6

---

## Page 7

YEMEN

Khamis Mushait.

(Abha

SAUDI ARABIA

ahran

STREA

IRAQ

Qizan

Al Muwa

Maydi

KAMARAN

adahs

U. A.R.

(EGYPT)

Ras Banas

SUDAN

*Khartoum

SAUDI

Riyadh*

jidda

• Mocca

Taif

ARABIA

*Sana

YEMEN

KIMIOTIA

Addis Ababa

(Marib

Sirwahs

dihannah

Haria,

Area of Recent

Clashes

RED

SEA

i Hudaydah

Dhamd

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

GULE OF

ADEN

FR

SOM.

630827.6

UNCLASSIFIED

50955

DocId: 32205073 Page

7

---

## Page 8

Yemen-Egypt

e.

Sihanouk's actions toward

the US have not been universally

popular.

This is particularly true

among government officials, the bus-

iness community (who have reason to

fear stepped-up nationalization),

and the military, where the US re-

tains a considerable reservoir of

goodwill.

f. Indications are that Si-

hanouk will try to win fuller sup-

port by creating new feuds with

neighboring South Vietnam and Thai-

land.

This is a gambit he has used

to advantage in past difficulties.

A number of Yemeni leaders

have told us they want the Egyptians

to get out of the Yemen.

They want

to be left alone to

solve their own

problems.

b. This is especially true

of those Sheikhs with large tribal

followings.

A general uprising against

the Egyptians is not likely at the

moment, but the longer they remain,

the greater the possibility of major

pro-government tribes deserting to

the royalists.

(Cont' d)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 50955

DocId: 32205073

Page B

---

## Page 9

PARTY COMPOSITION OF THE ITALIAN PARLIAMENT

OCTOBER 1963

SOGLAL

DEMOCRATS

REPUBLICANS

33

CHAMBER

OF

DEPUTIES

SOCIALISTS

87

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS

260

LIBERALS

39

630

4. OTHERS

18 MONARCHISTS

2ZANEO-T

FASCISTS

SOCIAL DEMOCRATS 14

SENATE

SOCIALISTS

44

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS

133

3 OTHERS

LIBERALS

19

1315

2 MONARCHISTS

155 NEO-

FASCISTS

50903

DocId: 32205073 Page 9

---

## Page 10

• Nasir, with some 30,000

troops in the Yemen, has grudgingly

promised to pull out 5,000 before

the end of the year.

So far there

has

been no sign he is preparing to

do so.

5.

Italy

The Christian Democrats

and Socialists have finally reached

an agreement on cabinet assignments

and a program for a "centerleft"

coalition government.

Negotiations were especially

tough, but apparently

' President

Kennedy's death acted

as a catalyst,

to bring the two together.

(Cont 'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret

HW 50955

DooId: 32205073

Page

10

---

## Page 11

A.

B.

NOTES

India-USSR

The Indian military attache in Moscow

feels that the Russians are dragging their feet in

the matter of military assistance for India.

Mean-

while, we have a report (not yet confirmed) from

New Delhi that Defense Minister Chavan has decided

to look to us hereafter for fighter aircraft.

USSR

Our Embassy in Moscow has gotten word of

strikes recently at Ryazan, near Moscow, and in

Leningrad.

The cause of the Ryazan incident is not

clear, but bread shortages apparently were behind

the Leningrad strikes. Similar disturbances were

reported last month from several points in southern

Russia®

For The President Only - Top Secret

50933

DocId: 32205073

Page

11

---

## Page 12

d. With Moro premier, Nenni

will probably become vice-premier.

Saragat, who is pro-Us and pro-NATO,

is most likely to be named Foreign

Minister.

For The President Only - Top Secret

ITT 50955

DocId: 32205073

Page

12

---

