# 177-10001-10064

## Page 1

177-10001-10064

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/26/201

AGENCY :

LBJ

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

177-10001-10064

NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

DATE: 11/23/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

DOC. #190

v9.1

NH 50955

DöcId: 32282904

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

TELEC

INFORMATION REPT

RT

TELEGRAM

190

This

material

contains information aflecting

793

the National

and. 794.÷-70

transmission

or revelation

of which in any

SECRET

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY

CUBA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

the United States

to an unauthoried

person

"i brombinid so abe Espionage Lems, Tilla 18, U.S.G-Secs.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FONZIONI

**H5

2lkas05

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/565,826

SUBJECT

COMMENTS OF CUBAN OFFICIALS ON THE

ASSASSINATION ÖF PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

23 NOVEMBER WAS SIN

ROUT INE.-

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

22 NOVEMBER 1963

BRUTE

REFERENCES

CHILE, SANTIAGO (22 NOVEMBER 1963)

SEE BELOW

DINGERAN

-DUNGAN

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARF DFFINITIVE ADDRAISAI DECE

SOURCE

APPRAISAL:

IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE REMARKS WERE MADE AS REPORTED. :

- SAUNDERS

-SCHLESINGER

- SMITH, WM. Y.

10 THE FOLLOWING ARE REMARKS MADE BY OFFICIALS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO

REGARDING THE ASSASS INATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

A. ON 22 NOVEMBER JOSE TOHA, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE CHILEAN CUBAN CULTURAL

INSTITUTE AND DIRECTOR OF THE PRO-CASTRO LEFTIST PRESS ULTIMA HORA, INFORMED

PEDRO MARTINEZ PIREZ, CHARGE OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO, THAT KENNEDY HAD

BEEN ASSASS INATED. TOHA SAID "ESTE ASUNTO DE KENNEDY SE ESTA PONIENDO COLOR DE

HORMIGAS" (POSSIBLY MEANS ASSASSINATION OF KENNEDY LOOKS LIKE IT COULD HAVE

SERIOUS REPERCUSSIONS) MARTINEZ COMMENTED THAT HE HEARD THAT THE PERSON

ARRESTED WAS PRESIDENT OF A FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE AND THAT IF THE YANKEES

OR CIA ASSASSINATED KENNEDY TO RESUME THE ASSAULT ON CUBA, THEN A THIRD WORLD WAR

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

17:912335

GOSCH

GROUP I

Encluded from aviomara

downgradig. and

destossficaton

1904502664

iTATE/INA

TATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

JCS.-

SECDEF

NSA NIC

AID

US 1Ạ

OCH ONE;

OCR

ORR. OB+

00

FBI

I&NS

TREASURY

REPCINCLANT

ExO

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRM

DAM

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15 20)

HW 50955 DocId:32282904 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(When Filled In)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREION DISSEM

TDOS -3/565,826

IN 67147

PAGE 2

WOULD START. HE SAID THINGS ARE VERY CLEAR AND THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THEY

HAVE ASSASS INATED HIM, THE CONTRADICTIONS ARE WELL DEFINED AND THE MOMENT WAS

VERY SPECIAL, LIKE THAT OF THE MAINE. MARTINEZ SAID THE UNITED STATES IS NOW

IN THE MOST DIFFICULT POSITION OF THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS IN LATIN AMERICA,.

THE WORLD, GOULART, ARGENTINE PETROLEUM,. PERUVIAN LANDS, CHILEAN MINES AND IN

GENERAL ALL OVER LATIN AMERICA. TOHA SAID HE WAS VERY WORRIED AFTER READING

THE CABLE TRAFFIC. MARTINEZ ADDED THAT IF THE USA IS THINKING OF INVADING

CUBA THEN THEY MUST HAVE EVERYTHING ALL PREPARED AND ALL THE STRATEGY READY AND

THEREFORE THE ALARM MUST BE GIVEN SO THAT CUBA CAN BE PREPARED.

B. THE CUBAN CONSUL AT VALPARAISO CALLED THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO TO

DETERMINE POLICY IN THE MATTER OF FLYING THE FLAG AT HALF MAST. THE REPLY WAS.

THAT THERE ARE NO DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH THE USA AND THAT NO OFFICIAL WORD

HAD YET BEEN RECEIVED FROM CUBA, SO THEREFORE NOTHING SHOULD BE DONE. (FIELD

COMMENT: THIS IS AGAINST PROTOCOL BECAUSE THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT HAS DECREED

OFFICIAL MOURNING INCLUDING FLYING FLAGS AT HALF MAST.)

C. MARTINEZ REFUSED TO MAKE FURTHER STATEMENTS PREFERRING TO WAIT FOR

OFFICIAL WORD FROM HABANA. SEVERAL TIMES HE DENIED THAT THE ASSASS IN WAS

INVOLVED IN THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE INSIST ING THAT THIS PERSON IS ONLY

A SUSPECT AND THAT EXTREME RIGHT ISIS OR IONISTS ARE TO BLAME. MARTINEZ

SAID HE BELIEVED THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT WOULD TRY TO PUT THE BLAME

ON CUBA.

2. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO CINCLANT.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSE

END OF MESSAGE

VILION DISSEM

NH 50955 DocId: 32282904 Page 3

---

