# 178-10003-10090

## Page 1

178-10003-10090

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

KISS/SCOW

178-10003-10090

CHURCH COM.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 7506462(2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NSC

FROM:

TO :

RECORD

TITLE: MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON MONGOOSE, 9/6/62

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/06/1962

5

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

OPERATION MONGOOSE

CUBAN EXILES

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Attached to 1781000310069. Unmarked but probably TOP SECRET.

49.1

HH 50955

DocId: 32204525

Pade

76

---

## Page 2

DRAFT MONGOOSE Minutes - 9/6/62

TAP /mm

€.

178-10003-10090

178-10004-10264

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on

Operation MONGOOSE, 6 September 1962

PRESENT:

Mr. McGeorge Bundy; the Attorney General; Mr. Martin;

Mr. William Bundy, General Decker, General Lansale and

General Harris; General Carter; Mr. Murrow

1.

Sabotage Operation

General Carter reported that information should be available by

Sunday as to the success of this previously-approved operation.

Mr.

Bundy requested that the White House be informed as soon as the

Information is obtained.

2.

General Lansdale commented in general on his paper of August 31st.

He noted that some of the operattonal representatives.had questioned

• whether this was responsive to the changed situation engendered by the

Issuance DE NSAM 181, but said that this plan had been prepared within

the framework of the previously-approved guidelines (those of August 16).

Mr. Bundy noted that most of the paperwork in response to. NSAM 181 has

been done and the President's statement of Tuesday night had clarified

• the situation to a considerable degree. He thus felt that the approach

taken in the August 3lst paper was satisfactory.

'3. The following specific comments were then made on Activities

Ilsted in the paper: (It should be noted that final approval was

not

given to the paper at this meeting.)

Mr. Martin said that number 20 (balloons) was tricky and that

he thought a very careful look should be taken when a specific proposal

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

UNMARKED

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

HH 50955 DooId:32204525 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

- 2 =

18 prepared. After considerable discussion, it was agreed that

details should be presented to the Group, to include the content of

the leaflets which would be dropped, and specifics as to the method

and place of launching, the technical details of the release of

leaflets, etc.,

etc.

b.

Mr. Martin felt that number 25 ("discovery" of caches of

arms) Involves an important aspect of timing. He said, and the Group

agreed, that any such action should be coordinated with U.s. objectives

• toward Cuba

rather than confusing it with activities in connection with

, a third country. Mr. Bundy emphasized that any such undertaking should

• be done with the idea of providing a pretext for further action.

c.

In answer to the Chairman's question, Mr. Murrow, supported

by State, said that Radio Swan (number 23) should be continued even

though it 1s not entirely effective. This led into a discussion of

the possibilities

of intrusion into radio and IV channels in Cuba. Mr.

Murrow explained the far-reaching reactions that the Cubans could mount

against U.S. radio stations, and said that he felt on balance it would.

not be profitable to provoke this kind of electronic warfare. The Group

asked, however, that a detailed paper on the pros and cons of such

Intrusions, to include the legal aspects involved, be prepared.

d. At General Carter's suggestion, number 21 (propaganda directed

at Bloc personnel in Cuba) was assigned to USIA and CIA, rather than

• just to the latter.

e. On number 28 (sabotage of assets outside of Cuba), the purpose

was changed from crippling to harrassing Cuban coumerce.

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId: 32204525 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-3-

f. General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all

Cuban extle groups (number 48) is Impractical. The ward was changed

to selected.

Mr.. Martin cautioned that results of number 50 (actions to

be undertaken by other Hemisphere goverments) would not be expected

overnight.

.. ih,

General Carter urged tirat, in connection with number 22

(subnarine broadcasts), General landale should be given more latitude

in warking up other deception possibilities. Mr. Bundy Felt, on the

other hand, that particularly because of the possible Cuban counter-

measures which had been autlined iby Mr. Murow., the kroup should look

at other possibilittes in sone detail.

1. Ceneral Carter feilt that a determnation should be made as

to how far the il.Su is prepared to go in economir hartarsing actions.

He emphastzed that sabotage operations such as thase under number 27

will not in timelves ibe especially eFfective in wrecking the Cuban

economy

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955

DocId: 32204525

Page 4

---

## Page 5

- 4 -

5. A suggestion was made that small explosives or incendiarles which

could be distributed to Cubans should be infiltrated. General Carter

explained that the problem is not one of such supplies,

since they can

be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclinatiot

to use such materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

6.

It was-suggested that.the matter of.attacking and harrassing of

Soviet personnel within Cuba should be considered.

7.

The Attorney General and Mr. Bundy said that no reprisals against

exiles who undertake active operations on their own are contemplated.

8.

It was

suggested that the possibilitles of counterfeiting be looked

Into further.

9.

General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how

much latitude would be allowed the operating elements of the government,

within broad policy lines.

The Chairman Indicated that it would not be

a simple matter to delegate responsibilitles of this kind to any great

degree.

10. Mr. Bundy then raised the basic question of the entire spectrum

of other contingencies beyond those

envisaged in the MONGOOSE program.

NH 50955 DocId: 32204525

Page 5

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

---

## Page 6

=5-

He mentioned

as examples what the U.S. response should be in the event

of a revolt and whether or not a naval blockade should be mounted.

The Group agreed that such planning, in addition to the military continger

plans already prepared, must be pursued.

Although

recognizing that this type of activity is not within the

MONGOOSE Framework, Mr. Hundy it that General kanadale's group,

milita

particularly the State representative, could do the initial exploration

of possibilities for later consideration by the Special Group, the

Secretary of State and higher authority. On the other hand, General

Carter felt strongly that if General Lansdale and his associates

were given the responsibility for developing the spectrum of possible

decisionsof this kind, it would inevitably detract from the time

available for MONGOOSE operationg. Thie matter was left open for further

consideration at a meeting next week.

CC-Gun hausdche - destroyed 4/8/43-mine

-

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

+----------------

AW 50955

DocId: 32204525

Page 6

---

