# 178-10002-10479

## Page 1

178-10002-10479

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

ROCKCOM

178-10002-10479

RECORD SERIES:

ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (7)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

19 JANUARY 1962

DATE: 01/19/1962

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

KENNEDY, ROBERT

DOD

CIA

CARIBBEAN SURVEY GROUP

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJEGTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

CARES CONCURRENOR OF

DATE:

MAR

2016

v9.1

NN 30955

26

DocId: 32204636

Page 1

---

## Page 2

178-10002-10479

PROPERTY: OF

19 January 1262

THE WAITE GOUGE OFFICE

Notified at 1015 of meeting In Mr. Bob Kennedy's office

at 1100 attended by Lansdale, Woodward (State), Helms (CIA),

Wilson

(USIA), Craig (DOD) at 10th anu Constitution, 1100,

MI. Kennedy's office.

Personnel actually attending the

meeting were: Lansdale, Craig, Hand, Patchell, Molianis, (CIA),

Helms,

(CIA), Wilson. State Department representative failed

to report. Neeting opened with Lansdale overing 32 tasks

given various departments. Reported to Mr. Kennedy that the

project

was in slow motion. We must get things off dead

center.

Ventioned there were many taskings, some of which

may or may not work. It is high time the US Government gave

this project and the tasks involved a fair trial. It 1s

high time the United States gets busy. Something to be

generated in the form of assets, etc. around the Caribbean

basin.

Lansdale reported that

at the Special Group meeting

yesterday, General Taylor asked if the tasks had been

accepted by various departments. Lansdale had replied that

FO

most had been accepted but not all.

One task was the

defection of top Cubans in the Castro regime. This is a

thing CIA could handle and must.

Lansdale will be adding

tasks from time to

time.

Deadlines in, the plan issued and distributed

yesterday

were developed carefully not haphazardly. As we become

ready in any phase we should

push ahead. Lansdale expressed

his concern regarding the absence of State representative at

the meeting. He does not feel that State realizes the

importance of this project. State should give this project

more emphasis. Lansdale mentioned Interrogation Center

Opa-locka and ask MI. lichanus to give lir. Kennedy a brief

report..

Requirements have been developed and submitted

to J-5, Joint Staff which 1s considering the support

required from the military.

CIA people are involved..

Plan is that CIA peonle will absorb military personnel. The

interrogation Center will be ready on schedule, but this

wives not mean that an undereround can be put into Cuba

EXCLUAL PROM CDS

PHOTOCOPY

FROM THE

GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

!......

i. is oran

NN 30953

DocId: 32204636

Page 2

---

## Page 3

THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE

simultancously, He must first get the mass of informatio

before we can develop the necessary dope for underground.

Detailed information for establishment of successful under-

ground is necessary. Nr. Wilson indicated that as the

Interrogation Center gets information avallable, USIA

can use it for broadcasts, news items, etc. The Attorney

General

asked what is being done with the people, i.e., refugees

who have already escaped from Cuba. McMands replied CIA

trying to get people particularly who have come out since

October. Mr. Kennedy feels that the people who have escaped in

the last 6 months are important. His view is that we must

find the key Communist informers in each village and

province who back the Communist regime. We must find out

how the operation was conducted 6

months ago. How it is

conducted now. What changes. What those changes imply.

We must determine those people who are potential assets,

those unfriendly to Castro.

Mr. Kennedy stated that

money is no object.' Melands reported that US has a base

Cubans with knowledge. Mr.. Kennedy referred to a

recent project involving placement of operators into

FORD

Cuba recently which were

picked up within 3 days. He

stated that

if the United States had known the facts

or had full information, we could have avoided this

failure. Mr. Kennedy indicated that people involved required

for the Interrogation Center

as interrogators, etc. should

be no objection. We will get the people no matter where

they must come from. We must cause Castro trouble that

is meaningful. Lansdale brought up necessity for military

personnel operating in the Interrogation Center wearing

civilian clothes. Mr. Kennedy did not comment on this.

Neither did Mr. Mclanus. USIA feels that Interrogation

Center will be very useful to the USIA. Lansdale brought

up the nocessity for getting names of relatives of Cubans

who have bean persecuted or exocuted by the Communist and

propoganda in Cube. tr. Kennody concluded the necting by

summarzing the situation as follows:

50955

DocId: 32204636

Page 3

PHOTOCOPY

LIBPARY

---

## Page 4

MaLino denoia

THE WHITE MOUSE OFFICE

He stated how the project Caribbean Survey Group got

started. Immediately following the April fiasco, the US

government had to lie low for obvious reasons. During'this

interim period first. the middle class refugees and then the

farmer refugees stated out. General concensus of these

refugees that a strong feeling is cropping up against

Castro within Cubá but also the Cuban military is getting

stronger day by day and Castro's control is drawing tighter

and tighter. Time is decidedly in Cuba's behalf. With this

in mind the government decided to do something. General

Lansdale was told to make an appraisal

at a meeting at.

the White House. Iwo week survey was made and Lansdale

reported to the President in late November. Results were

that Lansdale was directed to go ahead. A major effort

was definitely worthwhile. A real drive and real effort can

provide meaningful results. We must cause Castro. trouble

and worry regarding the retention of his control of Cuba.

This will not give him time to cause-trouble in other

Latin American countries, since he will be busy trying to

assure his official and personal survival.

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE

Ro

FORD

LIBR

ARYA

Mr. J. F. Kennedy wanted

him working onthe Caribbean Survey Group. This

project

has priority and General Lansdale was placed on it.

Initially, Mir. Kennedy had hoped we could get somathing

going to harass the work of the Cubans in harvesting their

sugar. We still have the problem

of interfering with the

sugar harvest.

This project is-first priority of all projects under way

by the United States of Anorica. Tinr, effort, manpower,

dollare are not to be spared, The Pronident his Indicated

3

50955

DocId: 32204636

Page 1

---

## Page 5

.

that Castro cannot be tolerated and the final chapter ta

this has not boen written. Iir. Bob Kenncdy indicated that.

J. F. Kennedy made this report at an NSC

mecting. Mr.

Bob Kennedy will be watching conduct and the progress of this

project. The group vill be required to rake periodically

reports to the 5412 Group. Il it does not 50; you the

members of the Caribbean Survey Group

are responsible.

Imagination, ideas, thoughts and these are

to be forwarded

to General Iansdale. These are important to the project.

Nembers of this group must not wait and react only to

Lansdale's guidance they must produce ideas and thoughts of

their own.

"The big bird is on your shoulders, you members of

the group. There is no question but that you must see

that

absolutely nothing stands in the way. We must do

this

job now. We cannot stand by and set on our ---.

We must get going now.

This is not a 3 or 4 year project

but an

immediate one that must show results now. Each

of you as Senior representatives of your departrent has

full authority. Mr. Rusk, Mr. MeCone, Ir. lcNamara all

understand this. You have absolute authority in your

respective agencies where this project is involved, and if

you are held back on anything by blocks within the Departments

I want you to tell me or General Lansdale and he will tell.

me. I will see that the blocks are moved. There will be

no excuses if the project is not successfully accomplished."

After the above orientation by Mr. Bob Kennedy,

there is no

doubt in my mind but that the Caribbean Survey Group has

the full backing of the President of the United States,

""FORO

LIBRAR

1214

50955

DocId: 32204636 Page

5

PHOTOCOPY FROM

GERALD

FORD LIBRARY

---

## Page 6

i.."

10 Tenuary 1902

Subject:

Prepared and dispatched memorandum den. Lansdale.

Situation at Guantanamo.

see copy In Record.

Prepared Memorandum for Record of

the conference with

HIr. Bob Kennedy.

IBRAA

FORD

p.

O70U39

PherEATY

THE WAITE MOSSE OiTiCE

PHOTOCOPY FROM. THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

IXCULED (POH, CD:

TG/ 00OL03

t.e1e

50953

Doeld: 32204636

Fage

---

