# 178-10003-10377

## Page 1

178-10003-10377

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

BUCHEN/DAN

178-10003-10377

RECORD SERIES :

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

CIA

COLBY, WILLIAM

ASSASSINATIONS

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/16/1975

5

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

COLBY, WILLIAM

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

CIA

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

. RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

• COMMENTS:

Includes handwritten note by Buchen.

w9.l

NH 50955

Doeld: 32112932

Page 1

55

---

## Page 2

178-10003-10377

22

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

Colby's own-summory

of assass i nations,

furnished to Wit

Counsels on 6/14/75

T.W. B.

Evi:

pin red fill

pays bed

do

COPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

HH

50955

DocId: 32112932

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGAL SEASIIVE

ASSASSINATIONS

We bave been

unable to

find any evidence to suggest that

the Agency has ever been directly involved in the assassination

of any foreign leader.

We do know, however, that the Agency did

consider a number of assassination

schemes against Castro and did

pIovide weapons to Dominican dissidents who were responsible for

the assassination of Trujillo.

With respect to other foreign

leaders whom

the press has identified as assassination targets

of the Agency, we have heard that

some thought was given in the

Agency to the

possibility of assassinating Lumumba and we know

an assassination plot against Diem was mentioned in a cable

from the Saigon Station.

In the case of Diem,

the DCI cabled the field that such a course of action could not

be condoned by the Agency:

There follows.a

summary of all information pertaining to

the question of assassinations that we have been able to uncover

from a revlew of numerous Agency files.

We have tried to be as

inclusive as possible, and

accordingly have even listed incidents

that could be characterized as preposterous, as in the case of

DeGaulle.

Fidel Castro

During

the period beginning about Maich 1960 and extending

by inside nis alison de develops

through June 1965, the Agency engaged in a series of schemes to

bring about the death or incapacitation of Fidel Castro.

The

aimed only at discrediting Castro personally

by influencing his behavior or by altering his appearance,

whereas the later schemes were developed in response to White

House urgings

to do something about Castro.

Schemes considered prior to August 1960 included the

contamination of the air of the radio station, where Castro

bIoadcast his speeches, with an aerosol spray of a chemical that

produces reactions similar. to those of LSD, and dusting Castro's

shoes with thallium salts.

One proposal provided for the impreg-

nation with botulinum of a full

box of Castro's favorite brand of

cigars.

PHOTOCOPY

FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

August 1960, the Agency,

approached US criminal elements

that controlled the

gambling

casinos in Cuba in an attempt to assassinate Castro by putting

botulinun in his food or drink. The administration of botulinum

again considered by the criminal elements in April 1962 in

dealings with a Cuban exile leader.

SECRET/SENSIVZ

OLNCINUE

-... IMPDET CL 0Y.....

018186

NH 50955 DocId: 32112932 Page 3

---

## Page 4

negotiations for the release

plan was devised to have Donovan present a contaminated

diving suit to Castro as a gift.

There was also a

scheme for

doing away with Castro by means of an explosives-rigged sea

shell. None of the above-mentioned schemes advanced very far

beyond the planning

stage.

An Agency officer

gave him a ball-point pen rigged to serve

as a hypodermic syringe in Paris on 22 November 1963.

Since he

not think much of

the

device,

Charles DeGaulle

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD D

HEATAR

Ngo Dinh Diem

The successful coup against the Diem regime in South

Vietnan,

which

resulted in

the deaths of Ngo Dinh Diem and his

brother,

Nhu, began on 1 November 1963. Three senior Agency

officers who were most Intimately involved with Vietnanese

affairs throughout 1963 have

testified that they knew of no CIA

assassination schemes against Diem

-- other than the role played,

by CIA in maintaining contacts, by direction,

with

the Vietnamese

generals.

SECRET SENSITINE

NW 50955 DooId: 32112932 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET/SENSITIVE

A review of relevant Agency files revealed only

mention of

an

assassination plot. On 5 October 1963, an Agency

officer

cabled from

Saigon that

he recommended

to senior

Embassy officers that "we do not set ourselves irrevocably

against the assassination plot, since the other two alternatives

mean either a bloodbath in Saigon of a protracted struggle which

could rip the army and the country asunder."

to this

recommendation

appeared in a cable of 6 October 1963 that

forcefully stated that

"McCone directs that you withdraw recom

mendation to Ambassador (concerning assassination plan] under

McCone instructions,

as we cannot be in position actively con-

• doning. such course of action and thereby engaging our responsi

bility therefor."

Francois Duvalier

There is no record or reference that the Agency ever con

templated

any

action in Haiti that would involve the assassination

of President Duvalier, although there were plans to overthrow his

regime.

23 May 1963, National Security Memorandum No. 246

instructed the CIA to develop an exile force to challenge

the

Duvalier regime in Haiti and

suggested that the Dominican

Republic

offered the most feasible staging

area.

In response, the Agency

proposed to develop a covert relationship with President Bosch

of the Dominican Republic for the

purpose of creating a Haitian

exile military force in the Dominican Republic to

overthrow

Duvalier.

Upon approval of this

proposal

on

20 June,

CIA repre-

sentatives discussed the matter with President Bosch, who declined

for various reasons.

On 18 July the CIA

presented another pro

posal to Special Group 5412 recommending that

the CIA discontinue

development of a Haitian exile force in the Dominican Republic,

but that it implement

a program

of

coordinated political

action,

intelligence collection and

paramilitary operations

from other

bases

instead:

This plan was

approved by the Special Group on

15 July and by President Kennedy on 19 July 1963.

GERALD

FORD LIBPARY

Following three abortive Agency sponsored incursions in

August and

September 1963, U.S. policy was changed and called

for limited accommodation

with. the Haitian Government while still

permitting the training of a small cadre of exiles in the United

Impatient for

action, around June 1963, members of the

Haitian Youth Movement (MJH), without Agency knowledge, made

with Father Jean Georges, a former Minister of

Education

who had

a large student following.

Later, the same. month,

Pather Georges dispatched an invasion force by sea.

Although fe

failed, the invasion galvanized the Haitian exile community,

especially the young people.

Between 14 and 30 July 1964, MJH

members left New York singly.or in pairs for Jamaica, with plans;

to travel on to Haiti to engage in guerrilla action against

Duvalier. Of the 13 men who made up the invagion team, eight

3

GERRET/REACHNE

HH 50955

DocId:32112932

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET/SENSITNE

had received Agency training; the remaining five were simply

MJH

members.

There was no Agency sponsorship of this invasion,

nor was the

Agency aware that it was being planned.

During

the summer of 1964, the major project set up. to encompass

polley guidance and

funding authority for integiated political,

Intelligence, and paramilitary training activity against che

regime was

terminated.jalthough the official termination

date was

not until 30 June 1965 During the first half of 1965,

Headquarters case

officers were in touch with certain

asset's

formerly

Included in this project, but gradually. the efforts of

these assets

were redirected and those who had a continuing

to the Agency were absorbed into other projects.

On May 20, 1968

there was another unsuccessful invasion of

Haiti by Haitian exiles from the Bahamas.

While some members

of

the Haitian Coalition,la: covert actiontactivity sponsored by

the Agency, took part in the invasion, the Agency did not partici

pate in the invasion or in its planning.

PHOTOCOP

• +c

Duvalier died of a massive heart attack and arteriosclerosis

on 21 April 1971.

He was 64.

Patrice Lumumba.

According to statements made to the Inspector General in

1967 by a senior CIA officer, consideration had been given in

1960 to use a clandestine asset in Europe to assassinate Lunumba

in the Congo. He further stated that the proposed operation was

never carried out

FROM THE GERALD

According

to available records, there is no

mention of any assassination plot against Lumumba, and it seems

quite clear that the clandestine asset in question

was prinarily

Involved in finding safecrackers who would steal foreign ciphers

and codes.

Although the exact circunstances of Lumumba's death remain

a mystery, it is clear that he expired in or around Elizabethville.

that he expired in of around Elizabethyiller

In early 1961 while under detention by Congo authorities. The

clandestine asset had

left the Congo in December 1960.

General Rene Schneider

General

Rene Schneider, Commander-in-Chief of the Chilean

Army, was killed in late October 1970 as the result of a kidnap

attempt carried out by a band of

anti-Marxists under the direction

of retired General Roberto Viaux.

Viaux was in contact

with a larger military-civilian

group that was trying to prevent

the accession to power of Marxist Salvador Allende.

General

Schneider was a major obstacle to their plans, since he firmly

SECRET /SENSITIE

NH 50955

Doeld:32112932

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DEUNCH SENDINE

opposed any effort to interfere with the constitutional process.

The conspirators hoped to kidnap and detain Schneider long

to permit anti-Marxist forces to take over power in

chile.

The 22 October kidnap attempt, which resulted in

Schneider's

death, was badly executed; General Schneider drew his pistol and

In turn was shot and fatally wounded by the kidnappers.

Following the 4 September 1970 presidential election, In

which none of the three candidates received

a majority of the

popular vote, the Agency was instructed to

try to determine

whether sufficient organized strength could be mobilized in

Chile to prevent Allende from

assuming office as President on

4 November 1970.

In carrying out this mandate, the Agency did

make contact with

the military-civilian

plotting a

group

which was actively

coup d'etat.

As the first step in their coup attempt,

this group had planned

to abduct Schneider on the evening of

19 October. This plan aborted. The Agency was also in contact

with representatives

of General Viaux (the latter subsequently

admitted

"intellectual authorship" of the 22 October kidnap

efforts), but had withdrawn

from contact after determining that

the Viaux group lacked the

organization necessary for any

effective course of action.

It is not known whether any leaders

of the military-civilian group authorized the 22 October attempt,

although

available evidence makes it appear likely that Vlaux

acted

on his own initiative in a last-ditch effort to provoke

military intervention.

TH

ERALD

R.

The death of

Schneider, which was

totally

uaplanned and unforeseen, resulted

in the, collapse of all efforts to prevent Allende from assuming

the Presidency.

Rafael Trujilio

Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator, was assassinated

by Dominican dissidents on the night of 30 May 1961. Although the

Agency was involved in supporting those planning the overthrow of

Trujillo, as a part of authorized, government policy, the actual

assassination was a local affair.. Of the weapons taken to che

at least one of

the carbines had been furnished by CIA, but. there is no

evidence

that it was actually used

in the shooting..

The assassins who

were. apprehended and interrogated

spoke only of the firing

of a

Those

who were

s overthrow were divided into two groups: the

"political group" which was in frequent and close contact with

the American

Embassy,

SECRET /SENSITIVE

---

