# 178-10003-10016

## Page 1

178-10003-10016

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY:

ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER:

178-10003-10016

RECORD SERIES :

ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (10)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP, 30 AUGUST 1962

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/30/1962

4

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

49.1

NW 50955

DocId: 32204599

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

178-10003-10016

PROPERTY

-¿--

THE WHITE NOUSE OFFICE--

30 August 1962

MEMORASOLM FOX RECORD

STEJECT:

Minutes uf Meeting of the Special Group, 30 August 1962.

Gur cal Taylor, Mr. Johngon, Mri Gilpatric, General Carter,

General Leunitzer, and Hr. Burndy

Colonel Steakley was present fur Itena 1 -1.

Hr. F-ford Herbert was present for Items 4-6.

PHOTO

UNMARKED

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

-

NN 50955

DocId: 32204599

Page 2

---

## Page 3

GERALO

LIBRARN

DIATACADI

anarchin

The Agency'e monthly forecast wee reviered and noted, All

of the fllahto

contained therein had been prevlously approved.

Cencial

Cartér muntioned that there might be an acdicional requirement for

1lsghes over Cuba.

The destinyer surveillance minsion DESOTO was discussed and

approved. It was pointed out that the ohlp generally operates 20 milos

offshore, but closes to 12 miles under certain conditiong.

The Group

requested that chey be Informed 1f any of the various ELINT operations

picked up unusual indications.

The Group reviewed certsin submarine activition and approved

them as presented.

i..

NH 50955 DocId:32204599 Page 3

---

## Page 4

17x:

--3. "I

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBPARY

Gonoral Lonnitzer sinted that liz. McCone had called hin and posed

a possible requirement for low-lovel photography of critical Cuban

targets.

General banltzer onld that froa the military polnt of vim

chlo has feasibie,

ultelog alther RE-201 or FoU alrcrafe flown by

UoS, piloca fron vurious bades or carriors in the Caribbosa aros.

ito

HH

50955

DocId: 32204599

Page 4

---

## Page 5

L10S G.17

Uit

al cutan illote bouid lavolve a deiny of gone monthe due to the

precide 1r91a15a required. - General Cartor pulated out that we are

mad tittend overflighta in and case and trat the posalbility

of chin riotests should dot dissiado us fron making these flighes

!:":

:?91

i: was boineed out that ather types of prola-

elle miind to pinpointles crationi

türgets, dor. not give.

comtaln sipes of equip-

diter gonn

discussion, the Group agried to take cognizance of

this maller and requested

inal le be tropirE sion appropriate cine

wien specifie tarpets and inioration neees could be identified.

**

Genutal Tavlor did not have an opportunity

to revics these minutes

prior to bis departure.

201090

01V139

Jullan J. Brell

Colonel, USA

Distrtbution

tr. 309.9011

Ar. Gilpat51c

Gencial Carrer

Gorial Taylor

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

NH 50955

DocId: 32204599

Page

5

---

