# 178-10004-10087

## Page 1

178-10004-10087

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

WILDEROTTE

178-10004-10087

RECORD SERIES:

ASSASSINATION-RELATED MATERIALS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ASSASSINATION-RELATED MATERIALS (3)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CARL, OFFICE OF THE DD/S& T

TO :

BUCHEN, PHILIP

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/10/1975

17

CIA

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/06/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Transmittal memo and 15-page report.

y9.1

HH 50955

DocId: 32112749

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

10 July 1975

DATE:

24

Orrice of the DD/S&T

178-10004-10087

SUBJECT: Attached Report

N

F

REMARKS:

Phil:

Attached is the interim report on the problem

you and I have discussed recently. I stress

the term interim since we have received•

new information from Defense as recently as

yesterday and have not exhausted our own

search for information within CIA.

Recognizing your concern that the investigation

be conducted with the participation of some

outside person or group -- and also the fact

that we were unable to find a satisfactory

solution - let me briefly outline the approach

I followed.

I stressed objectivity and tried to assure

that no persons who were potentially a party

to the activities in question had any

opportunity to destroy information or material

which might be related.

My Associate Deputy Director, Dr. Sayre Stevens,

was the prime investigator with technical

advice from

. an MD with an

outstanding research background but hired by

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DooId: 32112749

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CIA only a couple of years ago and could not

possibly have had

any prior knowledge or

involvement.

Additionally, I used personnel

from my own staff to assure that compilation of

inventory, etc. was done in presence of people

representing me, who again could have had

no prior involvement.

As I noted earlier, we are continuing our

investigation internally as well as jointly.

with DOD. We will keep you informed.

Carl.

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

litt

50955

D001d:32112749

Page

3

---

## Page 4

SENSITIVE

SUMMARY REPORT ON CIA INVESTIGATION OF MKNAOMI

Project Discovery.

The initial identification of the relationship between the CIA and the

Army Biological Laboratory at Fort Detrick as a possible questionable activity

requiring further investigation occurred in late April of this year. It

resulted from information provided by a CIA officer not directly associated

with the project in response to. the repetitive appeals of the DCI that all

past activities which might now be considered questionable be brought to the

attention of Agency management. As a result of the information provided by him

and by two other officers identified as having some awareness of the project,

it became clear that further investigation of the matter was in order.

Concern about these assertions was heightened because the A/DDS&T had noted.

in a recent review of the 1963 IG Survey of the Technical Services Division (TSD)

that approximately $90,000 in that current fiscal year was spent at Fort Detrick

"for the maintenance of a BW capability". This statement appeared so important

that a quick check was made to determine its significance. In response to

questions about the activity, the cognizant officer in TSD -- now the Office of

Technical Service (OTS) -- reported that a small effort had been carried on at

Fort Detrick, but that it related to the development of incapacitants and BW/CW

SECRET

E2 IMP DET

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NH 50955 DooId:32112749

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

detection and did not carry the serious implications of the IG's report. It had

in any event been terminated some years ago. The A/DDS&T was satisfied with this

response.

When new and more disturbing information about the nature of the Fort

Detrick activity emerged, however, the words of the IG Survey tended to give it

credibility. Thus, late in April 1975 a search was begun for any records or other

information available on the project. Difficulties were immediately encountered

because the project cryptonym could not be identified. The search for records

of fund transfers to Fort Detrick did ultimately produce information in that

regard, however, and checks by the Office of Security on one of the individuals

Identified as having been involved in Fort Detrick activities did provide the

MKNAOMI cryptonym. This enabled OTS to recall the proper files from Records

Center; two MKNAOMI files were retrieved. Some additional information was also.

produced from the Office of Logistics files. This collection of material largely

confirmed the nature of the project as reported by the informants and identified

a number of people involved in the activity. Additional cause for concern

resulted from the association of several of these people with specific assassinatic

plans as revealed in the IG's report on that activity.

A major concern after the discovery of the records involved the disposition

of a stockpile of BW agents and toxins maintained by Fort Detrick for possible

Agency use. It was not known whether or not these materials had been destroyed

along with the Army's BW stockpiles in response to Presidential Directives of

November 1969 and February 1970. An unsigned memo raising the question of the

disposition of Agency materials maintained by Fort Detrick posed the option

of having it stored in a commercial laboratory. It was the impression of those

in OTS who were familiar with the project that the material had in fact been

destroyed but no records confirming it could be found. In an attempt to find

such confirmation, laboratory storage facilities in OTS were searched and in the

NH 50955 DocId: 32112749 Page 5

---

## Page 6

:

SECRET

course of that search about 11 grams of shellfish toxin and

6 mg of cobra venom

-- but none of the other materials - were discovered.

Subsequent to the decision in late April that a full investigation of the

Ft. Detrick project was needed, all information uncovered was passed to the DCI,

to staff members of the Rockefeller Commission and to the White House staff

handling Intelligence Community investigation matters. In June, Senator Church

was informed by Rod Hills of the White House that a sensitive activity was under

investigation.

Sources of Information.

This summary report on the activity is based upon an investigation utilizing:

(1) the files and documents uncovered as a result of the initial search which are

limited and contain only a small number of Agency-originated documents; (2) the

material found in OTS storage which includes the shellfish toxin and several.

pieces of delivery hardware; (3) interviews voluntarily given by current Agency

employees who had some knowledge of the project and by a number of retired

employees indicated by the records as having been more deeply involved at stages

of particular interest. (Included in the latter category are

Tom Karamessines, Cornelius Roosevelt, Ray Treichler,

(4) . .

information contained in the IG's Report on assassination pianning and (5)

information developed by a DOD investigation initiated as a result of conversa-

tions with the White House about the matter; this information was only recently

received and has not been widely incorporated in this report, however.

Special Operations Division of Fort Detrick.

The Agency association with Fort Detrick involved the Special Operations

Division (SOD) of that facility. This Division was apparently responsible for

3

SECRET

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId:32112749 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CORET

developing special applications for BW agents and toxins. The principal customer

of its activities appears to have been the U.S. Army Special Forces. Its concern

was both with the development of suitable agents and delivery mechanisms for

special use in paramilitary situations. These applications clearly included

one-on-one situations in which clandestine delivery was a concern. Both standard

BH agents and biologically derived toxins were investigated by the Division.

Discussions with former Fort Detrick employees indicates that SOD was first

established as a distinct, highly secure activity within Fort Detrick in about

1948, though no records. going back that far have been found. The Division was

abolished in 1970 or 1971 as the Fort Detrick operation was terminated.

CIA Relationships with SOD.

The CIA relationship with SOD was formally established in May 1952 through

a memorandum of agreement with the Army Chief Chemical Officer for the performance

of certain research and development in the laboratory facilities of the Special

Operations Division of the Army Biological Laboratory at Fort Detrick. The animus

for establishing

this relationship seems to have been a belief in OTS that the

special capabilities of the Fort Detrick group and its access to biological

materials of all sorts provided the Agency with expertise and capabilities which

were appropriate to its function and not otherwise available.. Discussions

indicate that the perception of the requirement for such capabilities was tied to.

earlier OSS experience. Initial funding was at the $200,000 a year level which

grew to a high point in FY 1958 of $390,000 and then dwindled to $75,000 a year.

in the late 1960's. Though there appear to be some gaps in available funding

records, total Agency funding in the period from FY 1953 through FY 1970 is

4

179 47

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NH 50955

Doold: 32112749

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

estimated to have been somewhat more than $3 million. These funds were

apparently used to generally augment the level of effort undertaken by SOD.

Agency requirements for specific R&D were not levied in any programmatic way,

but rather the Agency identified particular work being done by SOD as part of its

program

supporting the Army Special Forces as being of interest and then levied

requirements for the customizing of such developments for Agency use. Through

the course of years, Agency objectives in the project became better defined.

Thus

a project approval

memo of 1967 identifies the four functional categories

of project activity:

a. Maintenance of a stockpile of incapacitating and lethal

agents in readiness for operational use;

b. Maintenance, assessment and evaluation of a designated

balance of biological and chemical disseminating systems for

operational readiness;

d. Provide technical support and consultation on request to meet

ad hoe requirements related to offensive and defensive BW/CW.

In the later years the activities dwindled to the point of simply maintaining

a stockpile of agents and delivery systems for possible Agency use.

5

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId: 32112749 Page B

---

## Page 9

Project Management within CIA.

From its outset the project was characterized by a compartmentation that

was extreme even by CIA standards. Only two or three Agency officers at any

given time were cleared for access to Fort Detrick activities. This work was

managed first within the Biology Branch and later in the Chemistry Branch of

TSD. Because of the sensitivity of the activity, queries by operations officers

as to the availability of materials and delivery systems of the type being

developed at Fort Detrick were automatically turned away by TSD unless initial

approval for contact had been given by the Deputy Director for Plans. Even

when this

was the case, the Chief of TSD often referred the operations officer

directly to one of the cleared officers dealing with Fort Detrick and was never

informed as to the nature of the discussions. This method of procedure has been

confirmed both through interviews and by the IG report on assassination planning.

No written records were kept.. Though some CIA-originated documents have been

found in the project files, it is clear that only a very limited documentation

of activities took place. No records on such things as material control, receipt,

delivery, destruction, etc. can be found. No documents relating to any possible

operational use of the material have been found. The files as they exist are quite

different from

those normally maintained in the course of a typical CIA R&D

project. As noted above, funding to the project was provided simply on the basis

of augmenting the level of effort established by Army funding. There appears

to have been no relation of funding to specific tasking, nor can any strict

accounting of funds on the basis of effort expended in the Agency's behalf be

found. Project officers with whom discussions were held stated thai the funding

was simply provided to maintain the availability to the Agency of the capabilities

6

Doc 1

Photocopy

from

Geraid R. Ford Library

H# 50955 DooId:32112749 Page

---

## Page 10

Scotcl

of SOD. Finally, there is little evidence of much specific program definition

on the part of the Agency. Though occasional specific requests for material

or for investigations relating to the solution of a hypothetically posed

operational problem can be found, the Agency with one or two exceptions through

the years appears to have ridden on a program generated internally by SOD largely

on the basis of Special Forces requiraments. There are one or two exceptions

which will be discussed below.

Activities of Peculiar CIA Interest.

Though discussions with people associated with the project reflect an

overriding interest in incapacitants, particularly in later years, available

records make it clear that CIA interests included maintaining a stockpile of

lethal materials and delivery systems.

Primary Agency interest seemed to relate to the development of dissemination

equipment to be used with a standard set of agents kept on the shelf. A number of

such dissemination devices appear to be peculiarly suited for the type of clandesti

use one might associate with Agency operations. Some of these were included among

hardware stored for the Agency at Edgewood Arsenal subsequent to the closure of

SOD: attache cases rigged to disseminate an agent into the air, a cigarette

7

SECKET

Photocopy

from.

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId: 32112749 Page 10

---

## Page 11

case rigged to disseminate an agent when lighted, a fountain pen dart launcher,

an engine head bolt designed to release an agent when heated, a fluorescent

Tight starter to activate the light and then release an agent, etc. Available

records do not indicate whether or not all these were developed specifically for

the CIA, though the DOD investigation has identified the head bolt device as

falling into such a category. The easy association of this equipment with

specific Agency requirements because of its nature is apt to be misleading,

however. At a meeting in June 1952, at the very outset of the Agency's associa-

tion with SOD when CIA representatives stated they as yet had no specific re-

quirements, a list of SOD priorities for work on dissemination devices was

provided.

This dissemination list included such things as cigarettes, chewing

gum, cigarette lighters, wrist watches, fountain pens, rings, etc.

Presumably

work on these devices was already underway in response to Army Special Forces

requirements.

Nevertheless, the Agency clearly showed an interest in such devices

and levied requirements for the special preparation of some.

8

Photocopy

from

Geraid R. Ford Library

N# 50955

DocId: 32112749

Page

11

---

## Page 12

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 13

Shellfish Toxin.

By the late 1960's, a stockpile of some 15 to 20 different BW agents and

toxins was maintained

on a regular basis by SOD for possible Agency use. The

supply included such agents as food poisons, infectious viruses, lethal botulinum

toxin, paralytic shellfish toxin, snake (krait) venon, Microsporeum gypseum which

produces severe skin

disease, etc. Varying amounts of these materials ranging

from 100 grams to 100 milligrams were maintained.

As noted above, with the Presidential Order requiring the destruction of

Army BW and toxin stockpiles, the question was raised as to the disposition of

Agency materials. Though specific accounting for each agent on the list is not

on hand, DOD indicates that, with the

Tikely exception of the shellfish toxin,

all of these materials were in fact destroyed by SOD personnel.

The shellfish. toxin -- along with 8 milligrams of cobra venom -- was found

by David Boston, currently Chief of the Chemistry Branch, in Vault B10 in the

basement of South Building which houses OTS. This vault is a lightly used

laboratory area and historically associated with the Biology and Chemistry

'Branches of OTS. It has been regularly used for the storage of dangerous materials

of various types. In past years, the combination to the vault had been available

only to the Chief and Deputy Chief of the Chemistry Branch and their secretary.

More recently, the combination had been given to other members of the Chemistry

Branch as well. With the discovery of the material on 20 May, however, the

combination was changed and is now available only to the Chief of the Chemistry

Branch, his secretary, and OTS security officers. On 13 June the vault was put

under 24-hour guard.

10

SEPRET

Photocopy

from

Geratd R. Ford Library

NH 50955 DooId:32112749 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

The freezer in which the toxin was found is located under one of the.

work benches in the laboratory: The Fort Detrick material was the only thing

in the freezer and was in two one-gallon cans along with several smaller con-

tainers. There were no labels on the gallon cans, but on top of each was a

folded piece of paper with pertinent information about the contents. This

information provided the types and amounts of material and the date on which

it was put into storage. The shellfish toxin was, according to this information,

put into the freezer in February 1970, and the cobra venom, in February 1961.

The shellfish toxin was packaged in several different forms including two

individual doses in tablet form.

The discovery of the material was a result of repeated attempts by Boston

to determine what disposition had been made of Agency BW materials held by Fort

Detrick. In making one more check on this, he called

a former. Chief

of the Chemistry Branch, who retired in September 1972, and asked him if he knew

what the disposition had been.

stated that he thought that perhaps some

of the shellfish toxin might not have been destroyed and was in storage in OTS.

In following up on this lead, Boston found the material in the freezer.

Though hard to understand, such material could in fact be stored for so long

without anyone being aware of it. The laboratory is no longer used for the type

of work for which it was originally built and had become a disordered storage

facility. There have been no requirements for use of the freezer in the inter-'

vening years and it is indeed possible that no occasion arose to investigate the

contents of the freezer. There have been no reported functioning difficulties

with the freezer during this entire period.

11

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NH 50955 DocId: 32112749 Page 14

---

## Page 15

GReT

After finding the shellfish toxin in the vault, a complete inventory was

taken. A large number of dangerous chemicals or drugs of various types were

found.

These materials relate to a number of past programs of TSD, including

the drug project, the development of harassment materials for crowd control or

meeting disruption, crop contamination programs, etc. Small amounts of several

other lethal preparations were found. Two of these are known to have been

obtained by the Agency for testing at Fort Detrick. Nothing is known about three.

others. Also found were a number of L-Pills issued to agents, and formerly to U-2

pilots, for suicide purposes in the event of capture.

Boston contended that he had no recollection of the shellfish toxin having

been obtained from Fort Detrick and stored in the laboratory. On 30 June, dis-

cussions were held with

in an interview at which Boston was also presen

Gordon stated that the toxin had in fact been called back from Fort Detrick and

stored in the laboratory on the basis of his own decision which resulted from

conversations with Boston. It was their belief that the cost and difficulty of

isolating the shellfish toxin were so great that it simply made no sense to have

it destroyed. Apparently no one, including the Chief of TSD, was told of this

decision or the fact that the material had been delivered by Fort Detrick. As

recalled, this took place prior to his being told by the Chief of TSD to

inform Fort Detrick that destruction of the material on the inventory list should

take place. Boston who was present during this discussion took no issue with

account. Neither could recall precisely how the material was delivered

to OTS, but the DOD investigation indicates that it was delivered to Boston by

someone from Fort Detrick.

12

SEGRET

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId: 32112749 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SEGRET

was certain that the shellfish toxin in storage in OTS is the same

toxin as that listed on the inventory. There is, however,

a discrepancy between

the amount in storage as calculated from the labels and the amount shown

the

inventory.

Since the material in storage is in several different forms and

complete reliance is placed upon labeling, however, no real discrepancy may

actually exist.

Discussions with Karamessines have established that he and Helms were

aware of the disposition question and that a clear decision had been made that

the Agency stockpile should be destroyed by the Army and that, in accordance with

Presidential Directives, the CIA should get completely out of the BW business.

The explanation given by L

_as to how the shellfish toxin came to be

in Agency storage is fully consistent with other available information. He

stated that the material was always handled with extreme care. Undoubtedly it

was simply transferred from one freezer to another and in his view was continually

under adequate control. He is certain that nothing was done with it subsequent

to its delivery and prior to his departure from the Agency in 1972. Boston has

given assurance that it was untouched subsequent to that.

After the discovery of the material, OTS was told to investigate ways in

which they could safely dispose of it with full documentation. Edgewood ArsenaT

was contacted and arrangements were made to deliver the material to Edgewood for

disposal on 11 June 1975. The disposal was to be witnessed by a representative

from the IG's office. On the day prior to the scheduled delivery, these arrange-

ments were cancelled, however, because the DD/S&T wished to consider further

ways of insuring that the destruction of the material could not be later

13.

SECRET

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId: 32112749 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Kal

misinterpreted. Upon informing Edgewood Arsenal of this decision, Boston

was told that while Edgewood would dispose of chemical material

for the CIA,

it would not do so in the case of biological materials since that was not con-

sistent with the mission of the arsenal. No further efforts toward the disposal

of the material have taken place, and it remains under. guard in the OTS vault.

Operational Uses of MKNAOMI Material.

There is no record associating the project with actual operations.

Dis-

cussions with those involved in the project indicate that hand-launchers with

darts loaded with dog incapacitant may have been delivered for use in

S.E. Asia. They also indicate that some of the material or crop spoilants may

have been employed. While no direct connections to assassination planning have •

been found, there are some disturbing similarities between the agents being

investigated at Fort Detrick and some of the reported schemes for incapacitating

or assassinating Castro.

14

SECRET

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NH 50955

DocId: 32112749

Page

17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

None of the interviews. undertaken in the course of this investigation provide

information about specific support to operations which may have involved

assassination. Roosevelt, who was Chief of TSD from 1960-1962, believed that

discussions involving assassination took place but claimed to know few of the

details and was skeptical as to the serfousness of such discussions. Treichler,

Chief of the Biology Branch during this period, denied ever having received

requests for such support or providing it, but these assertions appear incompatible

with information he earlier provided to the IG's office during its investigation

of assassination attempts. Treichler may constitute a connection between the

MKNAOMI project and the assassination plots involving Castro. He was the officer

responsible for MKNAMI during this period. The records show his giving direction

in specific terms to the preparation of materials at Fort Detrick matching those

mentioned in the assassination schemes. Finally, the IG's report indicates that

he delivered such material to other elements of the Agency. Beyond the Castro

schemes, no suggestion can be found that any of these materials or devices was

ever considered for use for lethal purposes.

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

BET

NW 50955 DooId:32112749 Page 18

---

