# 178-10002-10185

## Page 1

178-10002-10185

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY : ROCKCOM

RECORD NUMBER: 178-10002-10185

RECORD SERIES : ASSASSINATION FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: A-I(G) CIA CORRES--ASSASSINATIONS (2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: MURRAY, WILLIAM J.

10:

INSPECTOR GENERAL

TITLE: QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITIES

DATE: 01/17/1975

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

'RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Attachments: 1781000210186, 187, 188.

v9.1

NW 50955

124

DocId: 32276339

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP. SECRET

1375-002X

178-10002-10185

17 January 1.975

MEMORANDU: FOR: The Inspector. General

VIA

SUBJECT

;, Deputy Director for Operations

: Questionable Activities

1.

In 1960 the writer developed and recruited

(207-281382), a Cuban national and a ranking

2.

requested an emergers, mesting on 18 July 1960 to

advise thit he was the likel, choice

Lio sick up Raul Castro Puz and his

official party.

On 20 July

reported that the

was scheruled for 21 July and that he would definitelyl

Headquarters and appropriate field stutions along the

were

advisei: of the

schedule; requirements were requesied.

On the morning of 21 July Headau-rters sont. a TOP SECET MYBIT

OPORITIONAL NGEDIATE cable

21 July 1960) to

the Havana stition vising thit "bossible remnval of ton three leaders

is receiving serious consideration at Headquarters" and requested the

Station at iis osti:n to contact

and determine his willinness

to cooperate

The cable said that Head uar ers would be willing to offer a payment after

successful completion of $10,000.0o or a reascnable amount in excess of that.

CAS Havana, instructe! the writer to meet with

and make known our interests.

The writer contactei

and arranged an emergency meeting which tork place in

personal

vehicle while driving to

aid he would take a

calculated risk but lini

feii the possibilities wich could

it one point

aske! for assurance that in event of his death

the U.S. Gor riment vould

see that his to sons were given a College education.

This assurance was

On returnine in the station the vriter

ung advised that an

21 July 7960) had

been received at the Station directiny the Station to disregard the earlier

instructions.

5.

was debriefed by the writer after his return from

He reported thit he had no opportunity to

such

as we hari discussed prior to his departure. I do not recall telling

thet the original instructions, had been changer and I am irclined

to belicie I mace no reference to the new instructions nich had bren receives

- after

IOP SEGRET

ОТОСОРУ

FROM '

THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

NW 50955 DocId: 32276339

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FOP. SECRET

- 2-

after

6.

defectod ir. early Dece: bar 1960. I saw him once

in early

1961 in 1i mi,

Florian where he had tiken up residence. I do

not know if any other Sta ion officers vere howledgeable of this incident

although it is probable tit

DeOs now retired and

living in the Washington area) may have read the pertinent cables.

C/I/Narcotics

Attached:

(I)

(2)

(3)

21 July 1960 TOP SECRET

21

July 1960

TOP SECRET

22 July 1960 SECRET

TOP SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32276339 Page

3

---

