# 179-40001-10277

## Page 1

179-40001-10277

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

WC

RECORD NUMBER: 179-40001-10277

RECORDS SERIES

22:

PP 3

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HELMS, RICHARD

TO : RANKIN, J. LEE

TITLE :

DATE : 05/22/64

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS

ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN, TELEPHONE CALLS TO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

FOLDER 1A. BOX C02

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955

DooId: 32209918

Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

EMBASSY

i .

---

## Page 2

WAR

SENSITIV

METHOD

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASMINGTON 25, D.C.

AND

Commission No.

тати

FA-I CIA

971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr... Lec Rankin

SUBJECT:

Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States

Embe any in Canberra, Australia, Relative to

Plenied Assassination of President Kennedy

1. I refer again to paragraph two of your memorandum,

dated 12 February 1964, relative to disseminations to the Secret

Service made by CIA.

2. On 24 November 1963, ClA received from the Department

of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canborra,

Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later downgruded to Secret),

reporting a telephone conversation the previous day with an

anonymous individual who had described himself as a Polish

chauffour for the Soviet Embassy in that city. This individual,

while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched

on the possibility that the Sovict Governmen: had financed the

assassination of President Kemedy. Referenco was made in thie

cable to the receipt of a similar anonymous tolephone call or

15 October 1962.

3. Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA took the

following action:

a. Cabled

asking full details of the

telephone conversation of 23 November and the call made

on 15 October 1962. It should be noted that CIA bad not

previously known of the 1962 telephone call.

HH 50955

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993/

CIA MISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

AS SANITIZED (page 2)

8-9-94

(1) 13

DocId: 32209918 Page 2

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatie

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 3

CLUNCL

WARNING NONCE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

b. The ClA Station

1, on 27 November, furnished

all available information on the 1962 telephone call. It appeara

that source on that occasion stated that "Iron Curtain Countries"

planned to pay a hundred thousand dollars for the assassination

of Preuident Kennedy.

c. On 27 November, the CIA

Station also furnished

complete detail on the anonymous telephone call of 23 November 1963.

d. On 29 November, CLA disseminated this information, as

supplied by its

]Station, to the White House, Department

of State, and federal Bureau of Investigation, with a copy to the

Secret Service. A copy of this dissemination in its exact text

is attached to this memorandum.

4. The CIA Station

arranged for discussion of the

calle with the Australian security service. In the opinion of the

Australian authorities, the caller was a crank. In any event, they

were not able to identify any Polish employee of the Soviet Embassy,

the automobile described by the caller as the one he drove, or the

license plate number given by him. No further information on this

call has been received. Available evidence would tend to show that

the caller was some type of crank.. This conclusion, however, cannot

be confirmed.

5. Please note that the nature of the information in thie

memorandum and its attachment requires the use of a sensitivity

indicator.

(Signod). Richerd Helms

Richard Helms

•Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment

GROUP 1'

Excluded trom automatic

downer at ang

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32209918 Page 3

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES. AND

METHODS INVOLVED!

RITI

---

