# 180-10144-10213

## Page 1

180-10144-10213

412"

spered Only By?

Robert Genzonan

ASCA

WarDington, p.C.

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

11112137

10144-10213

---

## Page 2

RE

RENSE

10 79

8-18-78

RG

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

Question Do

2

cr selectica

softfile)

(DUPERS

Doc. FOlA No.

Date of Doe

Rocca memo

25,28,29 Nor

- (20)

end of Nov. 19633

Edent memos i transerpti

"ItemNes of DCI conversation

Bunds,

337-135

6 Dee 63

of contents memo for Del

COCTERS

12

friese)

13

(DE8jEK)

(c13++)

Item No.3

of Contents

78-558

GoNtents

Ita neti

695-3024

689-218

...114

Itemilo.

of contents

26 Nor 63

Del telcon

w/-Hoover

24 Nov 63

MEXi CAbI

14

(ci soft?)

1 5a

(mise)

iz Mance

ankin/ Del phas

conversation.

12 May 64

briefers.paper

corer memo

expresses Angle-ton

relutanetto

Rocca

687-2951508

"Malay men.

Item

ofcontent,

unsigned Terrot tra

FEND

concerring Jack

Ruly

3.

---

## Page 4

.. 1

Question No

15

((isaft)

FOIANO

Noi pOC. DATE

1528-1101 addy

29 NouG3

(Alvarado)

1537-110623

Dec63

(Alvarado)

15

18

18

(Mise)

1 9

(sisoft))

420-75%01)

-20DeC63

WOlY DIR 90966

:498-204c0

•DIR 97829

306-701 Flementente

ElDe 1. =)

277-683

3 DeC 63

(EPL)

THem

154/-1107-BN011D2c63

(6PL)

4

---

## Page 5

see

Rocca

3

yon learning the JFK abore,

what ge immeliate responso

in your

rose to ciA per

dera des goneli

i et ee ite people

What was the chain of command

same

a. What persona reprtes to

I Whas perono repoted

to you regarding CiA supp

informatin ti Wanes

code ct, page)

On what baais can Richard

Nema desegantel do pornt.

a. Wro often ded elm confa

w/ you regarden the asses,

CiA efferts to indentiate

sam

andworkg. ci.

5.

---

## Page 6

al Onchat basis did

you report developments

vis avirdiA into on JFK

assass. to the white House,

Who at the White House, harder

matters pertaining to the assas.

see Del memo of

28 NOUG3 tO LBJ

attached to

Dul note to McGeoge Bende,

of 28 Nou63

see also transcripts of

-meetings c/ABJ 25 NoV 6?

Ite m

listof

see also

ITen No: 5-2900063

6.

---

## Page 7

2.C. What core atre q you relatem-

peeperall

d.

Waatti ClA unvestigatio

manna dictates

ALi.

le mantra a investiate

7.

---

## Page 8

4

5.

onorch

Of as, when del out drociosen

Maciones, anchet irache

roulty the diocesim (a).

What ile did CI stoff play

un c/t inielegatin

a. Whatrale dis fame Anglele

pery entre 7 gentins

Helmo and Agletin playes

4 fint Tol

mitigatin and ros

relations w/the W.C.

Did the CrA eva estiblin a

poluz, iritter a cincoritter

regarders the foun and

foto be supplo

tre w. c.

significant and/a austanti

informatem gan

7 set em

the JFK assas eittano/10.

8.

ps

---

## Page 9

n lirasons

thint fule a ut content body.

9

---

## Page 10

7.

Sel 43

memo to

mrtitary.

What we you helpen 1944

regarding

the plen

"FBI

State dept, INS, and milita

intelligene sita corperitin

1/ and supply I unfo it

ш C.

and yoo wok

mantis

I. Do you believe the same

Cratio

an ear fong notence

i adequate purse less

general weit

a Days or desert on

Ebar

men you dien wat

regime

10.

---

## Page 11

this memo india

anot, cant

the walkering it a f

ramifications?

Item No. 11 of Contents

---

## Page 12

d. Did Cit and FBi end enflut in their

interpretation angel. 7

f so, please edenty + describe duct

instance

12.

---

## Page 13

10.

sana vito a proble

В к рекое яреніт

11.

desire the circumatance de-

---

## Page 14

Corneille

14

---

## Page 15

efer

a descen betien a Praise

crespontent olatines at

CoNg

substantis

13(0v9)

It's contact if the Cuban

15.

---

## Page 16

w/2 Lee Parker, shril

se a yule intervened.

topias relater to CIA inuRi

115 staff abrit a

substan

ete cmmis

AMMUEL

why mt pleass fiplis

14..

Have you ever head the

name Luisa Calden? Goo,

so plea indicate what you

s kino conceale

a a. Did you ex have occaser

sies it dies l Calden gif

/whom, rate the cum

орани село

16 .

---

## Page 17

The are mero to tas

brufing inucats great

to disclose

derived for the senatoe

wet defecta, AMMUG-I."

9) Out a what old us 71

b) Can you explai anno

questions AMMV6-I* y

Item wait

* cents)

17.

---

## Page 18

D,$

FOrA

$

nel

Pert, we

wile the

VARADI

SAi

& tak-

17.

mone

sl71, 9t

astra feiral agenc

madet

drscirosim.

in case info supplier nocke

18.

---

## Page 19

NOTt

-When

te revel terence, us sorelie

• Lose you eve infamera

Li conneitento it JFK

America who on a3163 cased

nto My ani departer for

Have Cano plain

---

## Page 20

21!

Do yu tgno cRut 2 EIRIFAF-

"Opratin )ngro

" QJW10

0800, plene descrebe ynui

wintholanding pent

Edecntar Alu

22

aira progiamo fos, pleme

23

tin , Cub lene ;

whit was yuur renctin; wk

made ite re

onk x roro coas

ohst cros ti iile in anti -

Cstto operatim, ba

us gus

Lohit cashisnree operneen

---

## Page 21

sangue oldest Congresses

and the Kickefell

Cro's regarden the Hold

rossin, Lito

o Me

warren Cmosen. Of a, please

describe.

21.

---

## Page 22

it Talki

1. Name t address

2...

Yrs.

. as DCI

-3..

Irs wi CIA

an execution of revery outh

6. intrebration of releno material

ex. #94.

4 position

- in

1963

5. wii the CiA structure in 1963, what wa

the a organizational

//) o the DOP

6. your responsibilities

_ as DDA

7. What role, if any did the CTA have in

the... investigation.

of the assass of JFk?

22.

CALMOST A DUPLICATE

OF PAGE 230

---

## Page 23

1. Name it address

swear in Rodney a the Reever

Waivers, ste ete.

.2..

Yrs...

DC I

3.-

Ars Wi CIA

a execution of revery outh sit

b. intraduction of reese miterich

st. 6: 230

position

11963

6 your spons: Gilitis an DOR

7 What role, if any did the CIA have in

the.

investigation of the assass of dek?

And Eden

23.

---

## Page 24

How was the ClA's

assass

organised?

investigation into

9.

Who was primarily responsible for

cour'

g... the

CIAo investigation?

- what were your responibilitiers:

10. Which staff

granted con a gone

primary resp for cong the CIA's investigation?

the gener. purpose of that

stalf in 19u3?

6) why

What responsibilities, if amp wit the

investigation were

+ Jack ELicien:

the

2) win Keen pie we her cars

- Inventigation ?

se used?

d) was this resp

ever taken away? from

him?

24.

---

## Page 25

8. How was

to he

assass

the CIA's

investigation inte

organized?

Helma testified

9 Who ww primerily responsible for

coorg the

CLAV investigation?

- what were your responsibilitier?

primary resp for coog the CIA's investigation?

a) what at the genend purpose of that

stall in 1903?

6) why

_What responsibilities, if

Investigation were

the

investigation?

the

ie used?

him

(THIS IS A NEAR

DUPLICATE OF

PAGE 24)

1) was this resp ever taken away? from

25.

---

## Page 26

c) it so, why

12. What was the line of reporting whi the

CIA of info that was relevant to the

assass?

- in how dil info gel to the person.

who was coor g

the

investigation (+ ultimately

to you?

13. come's roe

14.

How was the overall reap for inventigating

the ...

divided Cele the FBI + CIn?

a) was this division of resp worklle?

b) any problem.

15. Did the CIA's investigation reflect any

working..

hypotherer?

a which

anar rec'd peimary focus

26.

---

## Page 27

b) why

Imswillgae

sinutespinal e) what input, if any did the We

have wat the areas of the investigation

that the lA gave the Most emplaid?

16 Was all information pentiment to the

Wcs work promptly communicated to the loc?

a) time from receipt until communication

LIf you

b) was any member of the we on its

staff informed by the ciA f the ClAs

anti- Coutro anamination plots?

I way not?

Who was told? in what form?' what rapons?!

2. Refer to book I testimony

a) it your porition that the anti-c

assass plate were.

not relevant..

to the wis

investigation?

wasn't the disclosure of this inf

relevan to the a

protion possible motive ou

Castro's port for wauting to astro sEt?

1) did you know in 1909 what

consideration, if any, the lue was giving

to the theony that the dER assurination

was part....

- a.

Cobra Castro Corip?

27.

---

## Page 28

4,

b) why

have wat the areas of the investigation

that the CIA gave the most emphanie?

16. Was all information pectinent to the

Wi's work promptly communicted to the loc?

a) tima from receipt until communication

b) was any member of the we or its

stalf informed by the ciA f the CAial trid

anti- Coutro amamination plots? * Dis Cistro peo

1. why not?

sugo. noc tole,? what

response?

wto was told? in what firm? what response?!

2. Refer to book I testimony

al it your parition that the antic

assass plate were not relevant to the wes.

investigation?

levant to the a

- basica listine paria motive a

Castro's part for wauting to adore yok?

1) did you know in 1963 what

consideration, if any, the lie was giving

to

the theory that the JER essarination

Wat part of a Cooboo Cartoo coup?

28.

---

## Page 29

(5)

Insert: Did s the Cin at any time prise to the cany f

The Wok hive

any doed on other into indicating: that Castro may have

known about the

SEA anti can"t destin time?

al) did your wholling of this info

from the we reflect in any way a dewine

on your part to:

1. avoid emberrassing the Agency.

2 avail an international cisit.

2) was the Agency's position in

leading wl the We such that info was

posited only if the we asked the right

es Other than the anti-cate tones

plots, were wa there any colitional

info, pertaining

to a possible motive, mean,

on opportunity to kill sit, that was whell from

the WC?

f) was cBs eve told about the anti-coote

avase plots?

5) was Melone ever told, clatwas

he told, when two/what response

29.

---

## Page 30

c) # what literat, if any, did the

CIAS

concerning. You protecting sensitive

som have on the info that it provided

to the we ?

1 Refer

to #190% (Brief for pesentation

to Presidentis

14 Mug 1444)

Commissien On the Areas, of Pro kt-

a) Please rend # 1910, pare

- 1.

does this parag. accurately

reflect the cAs atti wet senitive stm anl

the way in whick info touching upon sensitive

som was handled wl the We?

3: Refer to last sentence

chand a peredoe were est's betw the

CIA oWe for dealing ul sensitive sam?

17. Did AWD play any special este on

the we infer as the CIA was concerned?

a) did he in any way regises th

interst of the cin?

CLA

(WC related)

b)i Did he ever leak

info

to

the

30.

---

## Page 31

I frequeny of contact sett AWD I

CIA representative

2)

I persond briefings.

1. to AWD

2 by AWD

31.

Congressmen.

---

## Page 32

18.. What. nole did MCS have in the

CIA investigation?

a) was this a major pole. relative to

other stations?

c, cos

1, evaluation f competence

2 fid Ma. Acott maintain an cedequate

sys of

recares.

MCS ?

= peonit so 18. Is it costammy to have suct sife?

7 After Scott's death in

do at you know whether James Hughston

went to MC I removed dour from Setti

personal safe

If se, what maters were

removed and what was some at them.

-At whore dinection eve

JA acting?

4. What Lapened to the Mes file

soon after Scatt's death?

- ie did they remain in MCS

try get delined to HQ?

1) Goodpastura

1. How to you know her?

3Z..

---

## Page 33

a. evalection of competence

3. right hand penon to scott?

e) Did you review the cable a dispatel

traffic that flowed bet MCS+ HQ afte

the assars?

- Who Lil?

19. Did the MCS have any surveillance aeration

in effect in 1963 ag the Cubar + Aou.

embt comebates?

a) What kind

6) was info re Uto obtained a a

result of there operation?

1. What info

x. when obtained.

3. Which spection

c) when was the we given this info?

ie. wl; how many months of being est's

.?..

33.

---

## Page 34

specific

X) When was We." told about the

surveillance openation?

1. Refer to #2i4y

(11/20168 cable represent plan to

dise mention

2. Read parag # 1.

3. How long did the cAt plante

elim mention fl

i communicating

ul We remain in

effect?

4.

someone...

e) Refer to CIA # 177

(10/9163 Cable re (HO contact )

1. Read entire coble

2. define (Liennoy) in parog 1

3, define (Liempty) in pery 2.

dos quas a contain a dacition f

whom the Met haught might be cHo?

a) is thet an

accurate Geniption.

b) why not

d) how did this indive mistakenle

34.

---

## Page 35

get finked.. to LHO?

CIA

APES

d) did the trA ever foo

learn the id of this man?

[Corrider a reference to 20331

5 When was the WC told about the

picture to alich Merence is made in paraga?

a) when; if ave war the we told

about the specific connection betw the picture

and the cable repty CHo's contect al

lou emb in mc?

actuel cable?

els he gwen a copy f the

- wher?

= who

[Consider reference to TAR = ]

c) Refer to 2007

1: refa to 2008 (1131/68 mano)

thing

2= das make any reference to

the photo that was initiclly linked to cHo?

2) Refer to 2139 (waiting out the cc.).

35.

---

## Page 36

reflecter

utte

6. Way was a

this ifo concerning CHo?

cable used to

rept

At the time of lis initial contact

7 Erion to to assassination, hot

siguficant was thas cooted wl. the fou emb

a. comidael to be as rept'l in the 1019

cable, what importance, if any, we atteched

to this info?

€) Refer to 179-1P1 (10l10 1Q repare)

Al correct desciption

- source

B) incorrect, middle name

3l info re defecte statur

1. Once it was realized that

CHO Lal ben a defector to the UsSR, diS

this excelate in any way the signaficance of

his contect el the, Sau. emb

7) Refer to #18t

an what it a redering flice

---

## Page 37

13)

b. Who in thas care

t.: porition ot.

the time

I why?

5) Refer to final parag. (request for 229"

info)

- Assuming that prior to the

asses tabe. Messtation

had proceed

1 Assuming that prior to the award

the Met station had percenced add'l

info re LHo's contes el the cuban

enab, should this isfo have bees communicated

to Ha?

a would the fact that cHo

contacted

the Cabar embit cosulate in addition

to...

the sou autharitis have militel the

impice a his visit to MC?

& Please refer to e # 186S (tele tri 101)

In light of the fat that Hd

requested al'l into vein

cHo oths to muke

reference to authen it contact by cHo el

the don emb, should th Mes in Oct f'6]

have made an effort to ck the its culier

other referenca to CHo?

37.

---

## Page 38

13)

b. who.

in

thes Case

#- position at the time

I why?

5) Refer to final parag. (request for all'e

infol

- Aruming that prior to the

assis the MeCstation had prosed

a Assuming that pos to the assaul

the Mat

enab should this ito haves been communicates

to

на?

I would the fact that clo

contadad. the Cuban embit comulate an addition

to the sou autharitis have eclatel the

impice el his visit to MC?

E Please reer to e # 1P6S (tele tr. 1011)

In light of the fact that the

requested all'l ito on eno a thie to make

reference to itali is contact by cHo al

the dan emb, should the Met in Oct. f'63

have made an effort to ck the its culie

tul for other reference to CHo?

38.

---

## Page 39

(on (ps?).

Refer to 2140

(10118 dissem cabla)

1. Read let parag.

a incorret deciption

3, why? emp in light of trad

20 Did the CIA

even obtain a

tupereconcling

и...

CHo's voic ?

d) how was this taperecording obtaine

a how many

c) were these taperecording in exis of

the time of the ans

2) Why not?

e) Reu # Hoouer letter

1. Please read

2 do you know which taperecording

Hoover wa sat nfuring to?

3. can you.

offer any explanation for

Hoover's statement?

39.

---

## Page 40

15

f) Refer. to #197 (11128/43 calle Coutaining glent)

1. Please read

2. Referring to face a

Cut tape destraged

pion to receigt of and cle

3. das the lung in pray a suggest

that as of that time

one teperecodig wes

still in existence?

gl Nefer to 12040r (11121/68 calli containing sher 2d)

1. Please read

2. Refer to parag 4.

would have been 3e Do you know how the transibl

te able, to in effest, to mile: a voice

comparion: du unles the drie for thre

els were made avail to him?

21 Did the CIA MCS ever obtain a photo

a woult of its photo vury.

operation ag the Sov + Cuban emb tcowolute?

a.) Pleave refer to #24r (continuou covenge)

1 Is it curate to say that according

to this - memo the CIA MeS at least attempted

to: Keep the Cut dou.

emeteamulats unde

40.

---

## Page 41

(16,

continess. photographin coverage?

Epoint out the

2...

To your krowledge, is the infe

contained in this men

the we penned

to the FB=

accurate ?

3 It to been allegal the de criti

fact, sit after a past d cHo is Me. If

" insecond esteblikes that CHU wisited the

Curdou consulate d emberie a total of

4-6 time, would you regard it as unused

fix the curo station not to Lave obtained

a photo of him.

to est to visito, refer to ros et sea

4. Was MeS ever I'd about way an

picture 1 cHo had laen obtrived?

- Do you know whether immediately ofte

the are El ford at grate of cHo that

hal been taken

in Me?

41.

Q's by Comprenmen

---

## Page 42

22.

Are you familian wl. the Crypt AM-MUGle?

a. to refresh recollection, refer: to #1879

b to whon does this crypt refer

E was the le tol abar AM MOS?:

Eyes - 1912]

de Did AMMUG provide any info indicating

that cHo had lal contads in MC. wl DGI?

X) Do you reall what info re the sEx

e) was all if silent to sek aviar

providel to the Wes

1. in what foren

2. wher

f) Refer to #1906 (Angleton→ Rucca memo f

1 real

I lies from betto.

2 Parag 2 refers to "new factone that

the AM. MUt Case would daise el the wen

a. What were thee new facters

42.

---

## Page 43

18

b how was

handled at the te?

the " "AM.MUG Cae

23. Luisa Calderon

a. Please: real #150-1904 (pA:12-195 fa 28M

1975 memo premed Of Rocca)

b. Refer to # 1843 (tr. of

Calderon comegation)

1. read written notation on this page.

the notation indicates "nothing to Bure yet

a) do you know why anyoue

would live wanted to willl this tripfrom

the Puro?

even

b) was this to ever given to the

FeI...

3 Was this to ever given to the lue?

4. Were would a record of suel a

trammission be found ?

Insection for

rey implicatio.

megu.

ile, 2206

#1429

43.

---

## Page 44

19

not

cooking

Prociza

utin

34 Ork the AMMUS; did the CIA ofte

have another

23al Was Luisa Calderon connected in any way wol the CIA?

"serion?

obtain any additional info fres

pertaining: to LHO I the amara from

soures on agent

comected a in some way.

W/ OGI?

In 1967-67,

agents on

25. 0:2 the CIA have

any cource a

info cli the Cuban embersy or camulate

in mc? "Refer to 2970. -Who was soner ?

→ See ouer

Le at sat roten to and

26.

Are you familion generally wi the

allegation that were made after the armore

by the Nicaragon Aluedo to the effect that

he hul nitened itto receive toron i cont

from a sel luded negro set the culen eat?

a) Refata 2ai2 do you recall Lou thi

allegation us reduel?

See pen 7f poly rgot.

52101

D) Refer to 2091-2100

1 at 2100 -pit liner- "he wanted to

protest his unst treatment o the fact that he was

given money cince le dos not believe in sagatiting

over death

---

## Page 45

19A

Was: Terma Preenso Procni

cultural attals

Ça CA penetration agent

or sover 1 infe will file eular embuy to countie in

MC]

Did the GrA have any penetratio agent s

sures el info whi the for emb a consolate

attributed to Yatska)

Who was the soume of this info?

So you ruin

45.

---

## Page 46

20

to

2:.

Who gave Aluards of in reference

the allegation he won meting abort tHe?

3. Did the ciA ever investigate whethe

Alumado wes fled 8

of the he came forward

story

4 Was the we ever toll about it:

Alvaradore cryptie reference to being offered e?

5. Was the We ever given this

treeult summary?

46.

Q's by Confirmen

---

## Page 47

21

27. What is a

201 file?

That one the writerin for the opening

a.

or file?

was perceived to la a

201 file a mally be operal on someone ide

B. Refe to tt796.

3 Pee tito dot l belgian noely

to the opening of a zor file?

•I someone is an agent or operational

spurce for the CiA, would operational info

concening bain be bacal din tir 201 file?

core there any other place enda

specationd info would le stoned:

I an individeal were contil i nee

CIA either

a an agent a e voure

f info, would

a) be always Lave a sui file?

a) wald an onl name trice alaya refer

to his 201 # ?

bt the fact of his relatindip wh

the Agency

le notel in

the 201

file?

c) Was this the care in 1960-63.

well in when you left the Agency?

47

---

## Page 48

When if ever, is it permissible.

to remove

lois from... 201. file?

a) Is any recond kept, independent of

the file itself, that indicates all of the

does that have been placed in the pile?

b) when a do is renovel frame 201

file, is any recond required to le kept

noting this fact?

- if so, where?

see

Findert

ik wi

c) LIf zamomen to above see not ady ]i

what is.

the

best way to check a file fa

completen if the de does it contin

Bia) Dreo

fficial file

Agency maintain

el bing info a file

We operationd infe

in it?

Of whee one

-What is a black tape son file?

I undes what circumstans is it wel?

sche cominanste

in

the 200 148?

c) what would be the signefican pa

back tape 201 file (on la

cultural attache) ali

the Cuban end in mc?)

24

sen that is as operton file? Are auch file,

---

## Page 49

Does the Agency maintain a deal system

I fo a0r filer?

1. Are there situatione where an inclinical

might have one 201 file wh contain primarily

biographic info and anothe the contin

an senational rigaificence.

*

pearle

faked,

Taffey

2. What is an Agent device Histurg form? Where

is it kept?

B. What is an gection file?

1 to as operation file the sue thing as

i project file a piget appeal file?

2.

Are operations os peject file ene macintaired on a

Luch basis? is overt in covert file?

C Are pegect, spention; or 201 file ever

deliberately falsified?

1 persoul awarene l luch cars

* ever done at Agency agproul

ZR Rifle

1 familiarity el coyot (Refer to 71319-20)

de porpare of program e when

how much personed isput

V wa propan ever implemented?

did profed we fate on cour

Refer to H3311K (ploney 201).

49.

8. Refer

@314 URIS Cover

r operations filer?

---

## Page 50

23

33. What goes the term CIlsrd neer to?

a) purpose of that conct in 1960?

1) are ite flie relatively limited

in light of to ensuring that ciA employee howe

not been penetrated by a foreiga intell.

service?

c) When will would cIlsiC have occarion

to open a 201 file on a particilar indivl?

is what kind of

cose woull it

normally have to be?

34.

Refer to # 78r

a) Read s

6) =s

I what is the fake purpose f this sor?

50.

te this

обе,

re LHo

a openin i

KHO'S

will.

59, why did it

Cree +1367

plate com

?

> the

---

## Page 51

e) which init wile the cI staff was

neap for initiating this file. request?

1 Why wald cIlla time bean

involved.

file?

initiating the spening if CHo's wu

How was to related in amy coug

to the relatively limited purpose f the

LI/ 110 unit?

t) 3 bly was cHo's file opench cale

the name I Heung o?

I State Dept. Doc is # p22]

1 E would a routine file ck an

name trace for e to have per-lted in.

a referance to the file under the name

L Heung o?

h) Why restricted

#9Ÿ}

35. Refer to

(CI/Prgect RE)

a) Read top indox cul

b) What it CI-Project/RE ?

51.

---

## Page 52

e) which unit. wii the cIis tall war

resp: for initiating; this file request?

1 Why would CIlSe hire bean

involver

file?

in initiating the opening of CHO's Lu1

2. How was tho related in any fing

to the relatively linited

-purpose f the

(I/116 unit?

on file pal dande

Heury

[State Dept. Doc in. # p22]

1 E would a routine file ck ar

name track for i they o have per lted in

a Nevence to the file cnder the name

AQY}

35. Refer to (CI/Project RE)

al Read top index cul

52.

b) what it

CI- Project/RE ?

---

## Page 53

25

il was tho involved in on the

subgect d

any. CI staff pergect?

36.

Refer to #285= (missing sock).

al Read

1) Can you id this doe?

this soe ever brought to your

atte previously?

d) Do you know what happened to the

doc

that, at least is of 2/ole7, were minting

from cHo's 20r file?

37 does being misting from the sor file?

- anything improper

semitive?

has particula ly

- why if the don masted "En eyes only?

53.

---

## Page 54

26

137: Refer to Helms or McCone affi re CHO not a

CIA agust... .

{471914]

al when was this affi

-prepared

bl at whore

request

c) for what purpore

Il don the fli reprised cide partion at the time

that you were def?

38.

when was the allegation fiest mide

that LHO war connected in some way

ul the CIA?

a) who was muting this elegation

5/y/6r

1) Refer to # 1912-13 (Brief for Presentetion to luc)

1 Has It full parag:

"We have traced

the sponsortip of that campaige directly to

individuelo tcomprents.nti

the soviet polo

state apparator.

→ d which individeas + comparents

whi the foviet police state appeater were

resp for inititing the campaign that sHO we

a ClA egent?

54.

---

## Page 55

27

*

If noi...

fer to

CIA# 1914.

wailed

int;

3. did you enne see any written

reports dealing: with the source of this allegation?

he prepared by whom

I whe

B where would rept to louted

Did the CIA ever conduct an innestigation

to determ whether LHO had ever tantarte

CIA agent

who contine of info?

a. tortan

ravatige

when

any investigative ups is 1963-64

d. location of rept.

C wht de the retigation entail?

f. would a mere file check definitely

roue the go whether lito was commentel

in any way bel the colt?

-any postle way to electe pitility

I fification of file or preying f file.

40. Even though the Agency's porition in that

LIte neur

es an agent on source f info for

the CiA, did the ogency ever have an

operational interst in 1H0? (F5s67]

55.

---

## Page 56

27

If no...

per to

CIA D 1914.

". N

3. did you tien see any written

reports dealing: with the source of this allegation?

an prepared by whom

4 tike

b where would rept lo louted

34 Dil the CIA ever conduct an investigation

to

- determi whether LHO had ever enterte

a. tues am rauntige

any

-investigative ups i 1961-64

i...

location of rept.

what did the investigation entail?

cr nesults

f. would a mine file check definitely

solve the a of whether elto we commented

in amy way bel the Colt?

- any ponible way to chane ponibility

I prification of file or prying of file?

Even

the Agapan's

Lito neuter wus

an agent a

the ciA, did the atgency

operational interst.

position

source

I inf

ver have

(53567]

56.

---

## Page 57

Expund

12137.

41.

At the very beart,

would at it he

Agency

have: had: an interest in debriefing t40

to obtain info... on his experience

in UssR,

particulady at his place of empl, a

idio factory.

a, why hot?

42. The following facters have been cited by

We cities as circuitential evi

indicative of CHO having had connection

with the American intelligence community:

a) the absence if any commercilly

aval air transportation for CHo to bana

travelled from Engend to Hesinks ot

the bimer...

that he did:

100ct '59 Fina Air. 802 cid at listen

¿HO registered et donators hotel at 12:001

d) the ease wl which he rei's

his disch from the mil

I the ease i speed el wh he

pect hy vida.

"into the USCR

(#2011 Out 10-15 1954)

57.

---

## Page 58

d) the case speed Whit

reissued a passport

in 1963 , despite ha's

enlier attempt at defect to the uss

Hold you can to concent uper ay of

there... factors?

e) the relative ease el which Uti

fficiala permitted CHO to return to

the US after his.

traip

ta the USSR.

Whit weight, if ange should be give

to there factors in ecuating whether cHo

agency?

What factors, i any, would you emplo

in attempting to reoue this issue ?

58

---

## Page 59

2.9

d) the ease ispeed wil wh

re-issued a passpont

in 1963, despite ha's

enlier attempt and

defects to the USER

Hold you can to court upon toy of

there factore?

e) the relative come wl which Ut

official permittel IHt0 to retura to

the US after his tap in the USSR.

Whit weight, if say, should he give

to there factors in encuating whether cho

What factor pery would you emp lane

in attempting..

to solve this issue ?

Rosenko.

reliable on LtS - inluable os correct

59.

---

