# 180-10145-10245

## Page 1

180-10145-10245

20.21

"sai Repor

jelication

Persuand to Era dices

11110717

rap, enterteca

fir Wilcattstatemanto nba personal prossice

latina to the Assald laint isore,

1.

Position, with CIA,

was nepity ChietIStation

to So67

sutrienti

L'ento

Cur

To

gun

Branch,

4-10-78, Subject' in retied

3.

Subject premiate emmpiange at

with the

C/Aen196}

Intel yure assistant

for de 5e santion.

Interviewe +7 614/833 84 4-7-28

4. Frederich C, Pandall,

Presenta emplose di esit tit

Pandall patitein with i;

Sent te!

tho

180-10145-10245

---

## Page 2

5,

presente,

empioned at a rea,

position from april to

station as

interes spent

one tap on.

Schigin

3-31-28.

Girt lase officers

interviewed

former

presentle retire,

7-10-28 . -

wired.

Frigate!."

Dir, dish officer for"

presenta

intervieves 4eii>s

5.

S5~

Fi was chief of the Soir thing.

intervenes at for guine 1940 5

June 1965

---

## Page 3

!0.

1!

...i

=w,..d

11/10713

oriner"''ane

Tam 59 -4, Det 63

Feen asterriensn, 9g"i

intericiaed 450.75

Pirome650x, DoB

iemir tir

intelligaries

at

ziaion,!

Fitsen.

Cwl1959 t D2C962, criidin poea inin.

srilitan inteblig.une.

interriears 5-1-?"

605.

cnterene 5.15-31

jiom

Ferimen

ztei-i

196: /75

Wiliam

Eneniondi 1)313

former cit enecutini sflien al étami iáaà

n. Cliige oe le 4'3 prrgiim, dietaiti dentitiene

conduétd 5-14-78 sutmietted in siparato dior?) .

---

## Page 4

The above individuals

were setter

for inter vicw because of the

then held

position

27 tael

in a closed hearin

case allie

11944.

before the

SCA that

and tim siationed

told kim that tHo

was a

Took place in the

station, shrilly aiter

the word a the Sak

assassination was

recurred do 2970063.

Wheat ses

stated that could me? I call the marre

so essertler on the

eryptoniza.

also advined that corsidinal conversation

To since ta sid dis agent issu

rets indiente that to was a

That the was a aged!

Have you

sounce for ann

jin a get on all mie?

agent!

during his tour a

idiodin

date with the silitang

---

## Page 5

11110713

• : (2)

d'st aqunt.

individuali

intervie stil they never some a that

side cores

nationedin

Only astu train tr.

dictions and the

Is bate toe were they it to cle one

Le prator allegation:

Eugents 2,748

express belief tes

this some have been recruited lig the t53

Firing his tour of

thir

belil on th

of time that titO was in Lapan

In to feat it dining o

duty in de pa. They bised.

had identified a 1588 progum

wene they bad ins intomation that ti

is crit ment

Take place.

---

## Page 6

we see

one person

Subject enge lot cued venese

stace

lie conversation eupposedly too?

aste the informition

Ho was the astessin a? IFK.

advised invisigator heap tist de was in the th?

a? the

use a cossassinction on 3370r63.

fris ciA personnel reflected the ura

ransfered from the

station: 3 91u 91.5

n 1962.

I END have been see recriti

crAGgent chile de was

Japan:

with in

we the subjecte worked

_ statione

* and these

tone too

•ca22

hard handled.

one a these write

the recruitment. at tong

i Orwald have

i Caed be borese

accruited

have been

e rare exception.

The working policy and guidline

al The station

---

## Page 7

слим

John

SECRET

Wilcott, Janer Bernard, fr

- 100-457761

May 9 1969

SUS

for a

inc barraghy

concerning.

Khe

- milking

1TM WAVE

Poly graphicall interrewe

жето

29 Sipt 65-ll

of iss

Resullo

favorable in the

Daniel area of enorals, loyalties

паме

каню

tBil informed that the problin

has been resolved

SECRET

11110302

---

## Page 8

Хог

a des he

personnel file

SECRET

6616027/65

Wilcod, Jan

B

DOB

TR

09-97-31

Percoanil file

09-153-63

DOP/FE, CORETEN FIELD,

STATIN

F{)

- SUPPORT STAGE

POSITION - SCAL NECT ASST

puforming his asilgned tasks.

11 00 64 го

25 apr 65=

ubyet conudined proficient and

terribes as cooperative and dendat

див 63. то 30 дит су

is dilies in

compet t

Specific duty no 1-an Station castin

1 que 62 SECRET gues

Subject con

idered

proficient

11t10303

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Compelat

juta

DIGRET

---

