# 180-10143-10179

## Page 1

180-10143-10179

Leslie wielman

SECRET

Gordon Barton mcLendon

11110000- 11110019

Box 28

Falder 31

0:1 sate 2/a715a: subject is pres. of a co Lwhich will proude.

molitary History

194a- Entere a Nayy Japanese Language school

1943- Graduated Nauy Japanese Language Schuo

1944 -Commissined u.1. Nauy - Assigned as Intelligence

officer, ONI

Discharged as Lt

+: 1946-Attended Harvard law school

wife is the daugher of James A Noe, turmer governor

os Louisiana.

THIS COPY IS NOT

0. 2-4-5a-[covert securty clearance denied FOR RELEASE.

@ Envelope- 3rd Aggacy

@ Background investigation did January 1966

bONI. Background Investigation - April 1943

@ Crull Seruke Commission Background investigation atd

may196d

(N FBI Repurt

,4/22/55 Title: Gordon mckendun; Howard l.

Daws..ictim

@FBI Repurt 4/19/55 Title: As abuve

0 meno did 7/25/50 reflecting dentity of confidential

informant in 1952 Background Investigatzen

9)

b)

Background Investigation dd Tune 1952

ONI

Background Investigation Ate April 1943 same

as abue

SECRET

1 80-10143-10179

---

## Page 2

SECRET

-2-

1111000:

melenden (continued)

8 # memo dated 3-27-78-from os stating In Dea 1965

¿the Directorate of Operations again requested a

covert security

Approval on subject in his position with

Field investigation was"basically

favorable"".

mentions a 201.

471-986

SECRET

---

## Page 3

3

111200.

SECRET

"Request replies to rets Leeferences are MAst 06a5)

masH 0891). FBI still has open dette case Ret A and has

called several times. Also desire give positive ansier to

Santago Rey, on ref B."

No responding cable frum Hag.

is contained in this file.

The ble cuntained two memuranda for the recora prepared

by

flated June 30, 1961 and July 10,1961.

The June 30 memo contains the following information:

a- Rothman's DOB Is 26 DeL 1914; POB is Bronx, Ny.

b- "When Rothman first came to cIA's attention in

sept. 1958, he was living in Dallas, Texas and was

allegedly engaged in public relations work. According to his wite, ...

Gloria, he made a one-week trip to los Angelos in September

on undisclosed business."

c-"In Oct 1959, Rothman was managing the Biltmore

Terrace Hutel in miami tromwhich he was reportedly the FBI

to besupplying an anti-castro organization with arms which

he obtained through u.s. gangsters....

d- Following Pittsburgh conviction, Rothman went to

..Chicago, Where he surrendered an charges of playing a key role

in one of the biggest robderies in modern criminal history, the

$ 13,5 million losting as a Canadian bank.....

"Robbery was

touched off when the canadian branch of the mafia received a

hurry up urder from the caribbean for arms. The Canadian

matia did not have the money to buy arms, but it knew how

to get hands on the contents of the Brockville, ontario bank.

It called upon the u.s. matia

that Rothman onered the pilESh aistance, and it was then

", It was cherged." Subsequently

---

## Page 4

SECRET

COOLITT

• portions at loot turned up in Shanghai, Argentina, Cuba,

..and Australta."

e"Before Rothman was tracked down in connection with the above

crimes, he was reported by the FBI as traveling to lucatan to

seek a base of operations against the castro gout. In this enter-

prise he was associated with (Teddy) Whitehoure Insua, formerly

ot the cuban Cruil Aeronautical Associatiun, ex-Colonal

Orlando Piédra Negueruela o, former member of BRAC and

head of cuban Bureau of Investigationa

, and Colonel Rober to

Fernandez miranda, brother-in-law of Batista and furmer

commander of the presidential guards as well as president

of the National Sports Commission. While no mention is made

of Rolando masterner in this connection, Ruthman has engaged

in many exploits and deals with masterrer."

f. "In Sept 1960 Rothman still out on $50,000 bond,

made an

approach to Frank forini, soldier of fortune,

offering to obtain two. migs- one flown by a crech

and anuther by a Cuban. Fiorini felt that pothman's interest

was stimulated by a straight protit motive or by hopes

for favorable treatment regarding the fed. case againsthim."

g. " In oct. 1960, Rothman again appeared in Dallas,

where he approached Robert E. Grinnan, and orl

contracts promotion man. Rothman claimed to heve

connections with Nor-Roth Industries of M.f.f and stated

that clients of his had an interest in purchasing ⅔ million

metric tons of diesal fuel oil and. I million metricton

of crude oil to be deliuered ouer a five-year period

to Hamberg, vermany, onSEcRedialed by the otter,

---

## Page 5

11400004

SECREX

reported to the FBI. He went tu w.t. In Nouember and me t

Rothman and the other principals of the deal

, a mary

Talley and a Dr. Phillip Paneth de Panay. Largely

because of Grinnan's suspicions the deal was never

consumated. "

h.." As of December 1960, Rothman was luing is

Dallas, Texas."

The second memorandum for the record (July 1U, 1961)

contains additionzl background information and an updated

that

location on Rothman. The memo indicates Batter during

the Batista regime, Rothman was the supervisor of

slot machines in camaguey province under the national

superuisor, Alberto Ardura moya, who was one ashe

at the tropicana nightclub in Havana. The memo states

that recent reports place Rothman in miami.

The bile also contains a memorandum for the

Deputy Chiet of the western Hemisphere Diussion from/Clark

wisimmons]re a meeting with Rothman and David M.

mcconnell. The memo is dated June 30, 1961. The meeting

occurred on tune 29,1961, at the deputy Alturney veneral's office

and was for the purpose of evaluating "Rothman's claim to

operationzi assets inside cuba and elsewhere in the Caribbean

mc.Connell

area. An agreement was made that Rate as wouldbe

notted of Rothmants "operational potential in cuban affairs" un

Thys, (shere is no sEsh in the file of ties any

further communication with maconnell)

---

## Page 6

SECRET

2000 SVET

At the beginning of the meeting mcconnell spoke to

privately, mcconnell described nimself as a "leading politica)

figure in the Democratic Party machine in N. Carolina,"

and

stated he was acquainted with Robert kennedy, General Taylor, and

General van Fleet, Mclunnell is a corporate tax attorney anc

was concerned about the embarassment to the kennedy

administraton caused by the cuban "tasco." He stared that

Rothman claims to have assets and capabilities which would

enable Rothman to destroy the arms dumps on the

plantation uf ex-president cardenas of mexico, to set up

operational bares in the Yucatan at a cost of #50-861, 000, to

sabatoge targets in cuba identitied by the Us gov't,

and to provide positue intelligence on the acturtes of

Chinese communist Groups in the western Hemisphere.

when Ruthman was questetay questoned by,

made the following points:

1- Castro bad executed three of his close trienas:

(Francisco- war name)

Rogelio Gonzalez, Sori marin, and Efigeno Fernandez.

a- Rothman has the operationel capability to destroy arms

dumps of cardenas. He has agent assets in mexico with whom he

he made contact 4 to 5 monthsago.

8. He had Indians cunstruct an arstrip in the lucatan.

One 8-26 had landed there.

4- He is well acquainted with sanchez Artango and

considers him a close personel friend. He last met Arango 6

weeks agu.

5- He has the personnel and capabilities to altacle or

sabatoge any

targot of usEGReng in cuba. He has a do

---

## Page 7

1111000.

SECRET

basic plan for assassinatión of Castro. The plan called tur an

air attack with napalm against castro when he was addressing

a rally. He has 100 pilots who had partipated in the

invasion of Cuba and are now working for the congolese Air Force.

Rothman would not identity the polots.

G. Ruthman said he hack many agents going in and out of Cuba.

He is in contact with 6 agents at this time. The agents

are in the tourist-travel business or import-export business.

and enter the his. through 30d countried.

I- He knows of many chinese communists guing into

canada from cuba.

8 - Rothman expressed resentment over gun-running

charges He saic "that cIA used the same people in there

gun running actuities and the same houses, for which he

(mr.Rothman) was being prosecuted by the Federal Government.

He sald that he had superuised 40 ship operations on behalf

of the frente against cuba. He said that CIA would truck

the stuff to the pont of ship pick-up, where he (Mr. Puthman)

would supervise the loading of the ships. He sald that he

had purchased the dott ship "reefer" which was the tirst

..boat to support the underground in Cuba. He added that

he knew everything the cIA planned in maritime operation,

and for the muasion."

9- Rothman stated he is a close friend uf John Abbes

Garcia, Chef of Dominican Republic Security.

At the cunclusion of the memorandym.

comments

that he did not believest flikman's claims of controlling

---

## Page 8

LOOGIET

SECRET

agents and material assets. Herecummencs that there be no

further discussion with euthman re these a claims.

notes from this

meeting que mcconnell's

address as Charlotte, n. Carolina, This memo incudes

additional comments made by Ruthman-

a- claims to know prio, Betancourt

b- "suspects patrick op as being funny and ill ill-adused."

c- In the last year Rothman has met Arango 20-25 times

Rothman knows friends; "Garcia"' and "Tito"

d. Austin Young is Rothman's persunal pilot.

e. He last visited the Dominican Rep. in 1959 frthe

purpose of communicating with assets and contacts." Tonn Abbes

..asked Ruthman do Jub"

The tole also contains some information on Eduardo

Whitehuuse, Orlando Piedra, and miranda Fernandez.

•I. ten Eduardo Julio Whitehoue Insua (DOB 3-14-14)

aka" Teddy"

whitehouse is described as a compatriot ut Rothman's.

An April 5,1960 report states that whitehouse and Elliot

Sproning intended to take a B-ab to vera Cruz. Sam Rubin

(belleved to be identical with sam "Stretch" Rubin, chief

doorman at the Biltmore Terrale Hotel) was repurted to be

the owner of the B-26 (Reg# N32446). A Dec. 34,1959

report indicates that u.s. Customs selled a B-ab at miami and

another (N2881G) at vero Beach, when Whitehouse and

Spinning attemoted to muve them. A la Del 1960 report

states that Whitehouse was responsible for selling fire

to the sugar crops in earlSEGRET states he wa asked by

---

## Page 9

11110006

SECRET

Alberto Fernandez for help. Fernandez has set up a

guerilla organization. A 13 Feb 1961 repurt states that

according to Alexander I Rocke, Jr., Whitehuure has

70 pilots available and ready to take drastic action against

Castro and have worked out a "definite plan of act un"

to accomplish "Castro's ouerthrow."

II. Orlando Predra

Predra was tormerly in charge of the Dept. at Investigations

under Batista. A 8 Jan 1960 report states that

according to enrique fernandez paraion, both he and

Predra are heading the "military section" of the cuunter.

revolutionary group which is receiving monetary support

from Batista. A 4 march 1960 report indicated Predra

met ur planned to meet with General Jose Pedraza during

the later's uisit to washingtun, Pedra is described as a

member of BRAC who fled Cuba on Jan 1, 1959.

Reference is made to a new orleans FBI repurt, dated

march 27,1961. on oct a, 1989 there is a report that

..Predra receiveu orders by Batista thru Joe Suarez Nunezto

immediately consolidate anti-castro forces.

II... miranda Fernandez - There is one report, 3-8-61, which

states Miranda acmited intereste to furnishingaid

to Rolando masferrer in 1959-1960. He stated he is now

providing and and assistance to his former military

regiment who arestill in cuba working against castro.

He thinks the group SEChes ated with FieD.

ENO

---

## Page 10

SECRET

C700 FET

A Sept a2, 1960 cable to the Directur frum. mAsH (08a8)

started:abutta "1. FBI has aduised of approach made to Frank

Fiorin: for procurement of two mId aircraft which would be

brought tostates by one Crech and une cuban pilot. Approach

made by norman Rothman who is

hood indicted tur

gun running and stolen bonds currently out an $50,000 bund.

"a. FBI contact felt Rothman interest was straight profit motiveer

hope for favorable treatment re above rap. Contact stated no

chance whatever latter and that had adursed Florin, that FBI

could not handle such a deal but would pass. to other interested

..u.S. gou't agency. Sald that inspite of abole der og into belleued Pathman

could very probably produce.

"3. Has Has. any interest pursue."

Headquarters responded un Sept 28, 1960 (Dir 02972)

statng, "It Ret para 1 plan inuolves detection of mIl

and ts crech pilot from Cuba Has, Uitally interested:

Adurse all pertinent detarls."

JMASH respunded on Oct 1,1960 (mASH: 0891):

View Rothman forthcuming trial. local FBI feels

Justice Department

be aduised prior any GIA contact subi.

This to prevent any complication prosecution if op succeechs

and Rothman atlempts, make deal re possible.. prison term.

2. Per telecon 29 sept, mAsH advised: HQs Santago..

Rey also approached by Rothman with same plan ret A

[mIGPLANE]. If HAS decides go ahead withops, mASH plaN

make contact through Rey."

This cable was followed by another: cable to the Directer

tom mast, dated out 20, 196@597 1162) state

---

## Page 11

Blanchao-

July 4,1965

11110013-

Memo

ARA/CCA -MR. STRUeNSON

ARA-GeaseLisi.en

Visit of cuban Exile Victor EspinosA

venezuelan.

ListeR agreed to meet Espenose.

Espinsa statements o simony

Opposed BATISTA, opçases Castro

Not a member t

"Mirch 13" Movement,

it close. Is many f it leaders, inchding Cubelas...

6 trained ley C1A in Soursam and Guatemala

sent to Cuba prión to Buy 1 Pigs

Plans to became US cite su.

dug 65-

sonly an

1965- Espina recent requent

from one of bis reliable Culan contacts in Enope

acting

that de come guly espine went

Miamü, obtained Pale Gabon

papers

and event to

Citon Ail. to France

Caris... he the presence

for that pupose.

varies

22 Quing mis meetings in

France, o Spai

(where Espion entered illegally) Espinsaa uns

informed that there is a plaw to

outron the Carto regime and kill Cartes o

---

## Page 12

L

1111001-1

The plat is led ley Culela and.

March is movemente plus (urit

belleves some militang officens.)

"There must move sore yuckly becaus

more and no people leasing I the pleas

and thes growing cok o expise.

They me and sons te have ame cookdiation

on at least consoltation with responsible

americans. they est me wit come dant that

they could win

an allout fight against Castro

press, thinki

move te tears of taking comtel

for a feis bows i killey Cashe o his mint

ffective wan. They must whint o oyfter

th amencons

might to to help when the

coup. is attempled. The so wus shed to

Olent the Us Gor'l as to what wan

being plamed.

The Cubans night have tened to

that

belove him to be

ameliablo as Cuban

geil rent I Madid Joe time ago dry

Castio i fooled 4

Ide amonged

fon her to

work with hituated deane

Comuttice: she retired to Madad do plans a plot.

Platters ashed

Espera to lea

go deluen with reliable Grencen aficals.

"Top secunty" man relenad to tritina white

ne repres 4 plotters waited in. Span for

Espenosa retured to N.Y, Called

Haven y 565 end red to do pute

CLA-

Espinosa told stony to "HAl" y CIS.

eSpinosa believes HAl a2 Sonene else want te

span

do check. story".

---

## Page 13

PRIORITY

8/13/78

Leslie wizelman

DCD summary

varona

The DOD provided the following documents and information.

@ memo d visit to R. Ruben de Lean Garcia, dated 1-26-61

De Leon arrived in mami and was contacted! 25-61. De leon, because

of the respect he commands from the different faction leaders in

Cuba, was assigned the mission of bringing the roval factions

together in order to expedite the solution of the cuban problem.

He stated the groups in cuba. have completed plans to effect the

overthrow of the castro regime.

@ memo from miami field office - reporting being contacted

by carter Ogden, formerly a large landowner in cuba,

who is now residingin mississippi. Ogden was in miami

on a special mission for the sec. of the Army. Ogden implied

that it had something to do with consideration of Dr. Ruben

de Lean barcia as an important adoler to the us Army in

connection with the situation in cuba.

@ memo dated a8 Dec 1962 le background at de Lean.

@ memo of Chicagoan's conversations with varona, Source:

or martin f. fella- an as seat 1963 varuna was visiting Chicago

and told pell that the pres. of Honduras had offered him

the use of an island off Honduras as a base for anti-castro

actutes. Ear

He varona told pella at difficutes encountered by

Luis somoza in planning ráids on Cuba. Plans were made only

to be dropped because arms expected from the us gou't were

not delivered.

1311001:-11029

---

## Page 14

varona

@ Interulew with former Bay of Pigs prisoner. -

Edgardo Antonio Buttari, Dec 23-24, 1962.

Enlisted in CRE in July 1960. Went to Guatemala.

24 Aug 1960- oscar Carol was assigned head of the

Cuban instructors, and personnel at TRAX bare.

Col. Vallejo was Am-officer in charge. Late in 1000 1960

replaced by.

"Frank who arried with

"Burnie", 'Gordon""

, Pat

C. B.

Describes Bay of Pigs

invasion and aftermath.

11116012

---

## Page 15

06429

MICHEL

--

Edward k.moss

OS

3/13/28

Os file

1111001.0

The moss file contains the following information and

documents:

Deputy

O memo tor the Chiêf of security Research Staff, 14 may 1973 in

which a memo dated 28 Feb 1968

is referred. to. The referencede

memo

states that a verdol report from dun & Bradstreet recognizes

moss' long standing: "mafia" connections. "moss' operation

seems to be government contracts for the underworld and

probably surtaces mafia money in legitimate business actrurties

This memo also states that from 1950-53, moss was serving on

appointed position with the us Gourt, first as an Assistant

Administratur in Charge et Public Information, National Production

Authority; and then with the Defense production Administratio

both with the Dept. of Commerce".

a- Who's who in America- entry tur moss.

3- Dun8 Brudstreet report dated Sept 27, 1968. On June 1, 1960

moss merged his actruites with Howard Chare Associates, Inc.

moss was also pres, of a wholly owned subsid ary, chase &

moss, Inc, wash. D.C.

June 1,1961 partes agreed to demerge with

assets returneato respectue owners. Settlement negoziation led

to litigation. In 1964-settlement was ettected. In 1965 moss

served as Asst Director, 080, with responsabilities so serve

for public aftairs adulsur to the white House Conterence on civil

Rights.

SEGNET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-2-

11110016

moss

@ A June 29

1, 1967 Dun & Bradstroet report states that mass

is a principal in beneral International, which is stated tu be

an Italian. corporation engaged as consultants in economic ance

business area development

¡ Europe, Atrica, d in Asra...

@ A memo to the tole, dated April 1967 re moss. The last approval

granted by the offreat security for moss' use was'"a couert

Security Approval: dated. 7 November, 1962' to enable moss

use " by the political Group. of the CAstaff."

6- memo., date 23 march 1965. states that Ne obtained

a covert security, approval in 1959 ana cA in 196a. for

moss

in the public relations field.

1783

7-30 Nou 1962-memo- from Political Action Group / couert.

Action.staff.requests. any objections to the use at the muss

as

a public relations adursor....

MAJOR

project.

8-19 mar- 1959 memo from. DD of security reters to request

for Cso to permit moss" we ais an informant on the alans.

actrustes and programs of the Indian Embassy in which he

is engaged or of which he is knowledgeable,

9300211

Elastici

---

## Page 17

SECRET

hestié wizelman

3/13/78

Joseph Ray merola

DOB

90ct 1925

11110017

POB: Turtle Creek; penne.

The tile un Joseph merola contains the following information

and documents:

O memo dated as Jan 1974 re office of secupty files. States that

merola torst come to the Agency's con attention in 1961 when he

visited Justin F. Gleichauf who was then chief of the miami

contact division, merola sald he had into concerning a

Brazilian senator, a close friend and confidant of che Guevarra.

It was selt that merola's reason for contacting the Agency was to

ascertain if the Agency would interuene with the Fed. court

to rescina

the as mile travel restriction. He was informed

that the Agency could be uf no assistance, Mr. merola alo

said be had been engaged in gunrunning in behalf of castro

during the revolt against Batista and had been received warmly

by castro & Camilo Cienfuegos, merola again contacted

the Agency on ao now land intorming that he was going to jail

tur

one year, No further contact with merola.

A Feb 15, 1964 cable from miami reports that 3 peuple have

been arrested for theft at dynamited illegal possession of

explosives. Claiming that they stole the dynamite on behalt of

merola, a cIA agent. "merola is not a cIA agent but used

soley as an informant by ImpAlm." ]

SPENT

cadenied.

---

## Page 18

-z=

11:10013

merora

sa memo of visit to merola

1 dated 8 Fed 1961, reports

Brazilian senator story, merola said that sam kay, one of his

associates in the Latin American contraband business, tola tim

that the senator was interested in developing a project whereby

arge quantities. of whiskey would be smuggled into Brazil.

(Contacts in cuba with castro.) the was also in contact with

colonel "Johnnie" pbbes, head of the pominican secret polle

"merola also indicated that he is very well acquainted with

Antonio de varora, hend of the Fad, and felt that he would be

able to provide detinite assistance to the Frente should he

be called upon. He has a 63' boat available which he would

not be adverse

to "landing" to his friends.

23007

---

## Page 19

SECRET

ös summary

Leslie wizelman

3/13/78

1111001)

Eduardo Waiterous tasua

The tile contains the following information a documents.

A miami Herald article, dated al oct 1969, reported the

arrest of 3 men, Eduardo Whitehouse, Jose Roberto Silvera,

ana Hector Silvera fur recerving 8 cuncealing stolen property after.

they tried to sell 100,000 worth of stolen arcraft radio equioment

@ Background info- D0B -14 march 1979 PUB: Cuba.

Arrived in us at Port Everglades, Fla, on 10 April 1959. Left Us. on

8 April 1961, arrived Us again on a sept sept at New Yorkcity.

Issued de-Entry Permit in march aba for travel to congo. us.

Congressman Dante Fascell introduced a bill in congress in June 1963

" 7o restore his citizenship to whitnouse; that subject took part in

"Bay ot pigs invasion", that he contracted in 196l to fle for the

United Natoro in the congro"

Aar He was associated with Liberal

Party in Cuba 1937-59. Recerued Re-Entry Permit in Dec 1963 fur

travel to mexico. INs File#A- 11 241 940. Whitehouse was

represented by Altorney munroe Gelb, on march 5, 1962

Re-entry permit, Whitehouse

listed his employer au b.ß. Smith

Aircraft Corpuration, miami, Fla.

In Feb 1964- Whitehouse resided in miami

In JunE 1964-

in pallas (6141 Oramst.)

In Oct 1964

in miami

Employment in tune 1964 was with RANsAarne miam.

---

## Page 20

SECRET

11/10023

3- A biographical data turm lists employment as

July 1964-Present - Nurth Shore Villas, Public Relations.

Jan 1963- June 1964- Panauen Airlines, panama -

Operations Condultant

soo+ 1943-Jan1954- Cubana Birdines - Pilot.

1961-1963-

Insurance salesman

The above information is trom an investigation conducted in the

fall of 1964.

.F22

---

## Page 21

summary

Leslie wizelman

3/13/78

11110024

Edwara Browder

DOB: 27 June 1917

poB: Amarillo, Texas

The file contains the following documents and information:

A office memorandum -1954 "Sabatino, Edward Browder aka

Edward Browder; US Citizen buing in mexico. Born about 1917

Address: Hoter monte cassino, mexico city.

@ memo for chief, special security drusion. subj: National Agent

name checks on Edward Browder sabahnof PBsuccess.al may 1954

"In operational support of project [PBSUCCeS, it is requested that

your office instate priority national agency name checks, with

special emphasis on into developed from Immigration anel

Naturalization and Dept af state on one Edward Browder

sabatino. "

O memo, dated a8 may 1954, for Deputy Chief SSD from Chief,

Operations Branch

subj: Brouder.

"GIST: WHEPBsuccess) requests intermation regarding sublect and

Louis sabatino.

DETAILS: 1a The subject bal interest to unt Division ((Pesuccer)?

and has requested this uffice to conduct certain inquires.

a Because of the sensitory of this case, it is

requested that the foles of the FBI bechecked through

mr. Papich, concerning the subject and louis sabatino."

4 Couert Name Check Report -a8 may 1954

§ Passpurt File Check

27 may 1954

6 unidentited document

"The subject care, while still pending

was cancelled ay request of the chief operations, prosect resuecess "1

---

## Page 22

SEGRET

Leshe wizelman

3/13/78

Dino cellini

The cellini file contained one memorandum to the

Deputy Chief, security Research staff; subj: Edwarak. moss.

Datea 14 may 1463. Related moss/cellini / varona connection.

11/30022

---

## Page 23

SECRET

L. Wizelman

os summary

3/13/78

Norman Rothman

The tile contarned one so pertinent memo, dated

25 April 1975 which contained general information.

It was reported that in late 1959, Rothman was managing

a hotel in miami Beach, Fla. which reportedly was owned

by ex-cuban president Batista, through Batista's

brother-in-law, Roberto Fernandez miranda.

11110021

SEGRET

---

## Page 24

SEGIET

Leslie wizelman

3/13/78

John martino

The martino file contains a one page ducument dated 8Jan 196a:

case 36,973 - Drexel Gibson, most of the bage is dieleted.

Pertinent segment states:

G. When Gibson was transferred to la cabana he found only

one other. Us. Citizen there, a retred us. army officer named

John martino, martino, belleued to be from miami, Florida., went

to cuba in early 1960, fur business reasons and was picked up

at the airport in Havana on arrival. He was held

incommunicado for 14 months at el principe and is noo serving

a 14 year sentence at la laband on charges of being the head

of the "White Rose" anti-castro organization. martino is

desparately ill with kidney and lver allments and receives

no medical care. His ponysical condition has kept him trom

being transferned to the Isle of pines. " Hand writen

trom martino's name-. "Drug Addict."

11610021

SERTET

---

## Page 25

SECRET

J. Ruby

1. wizelman

6130/78

= wash. star article - 1. may 1922

"Ruby's sale stolen".

1. J. ware, partner in firm hired to auctanuff

the.furnishings.of.J.Ruby's nightclub in Athens, Texas

made. an agreement

+ @ Ruby estate not to oper

backroum sate By Ware said the furnishungs were

auctoned of Saturday but the safe was not among

them. Sumeone stuleit... the nught before..

oK. totake-fulleran.

05.

D022

........

11:10020

SECRE

---

## Page 26

SEChic:

J. Ruby

1. Wizelman

6/30178

"wash, star article - 1 may 1972

"Ruby's safe stolen"

..b.J, ware, partner in firm hired to auchen off

the furnishings of fluby's nightclub in Athens, texa

made an agreement@ Ruby estate not to open

backroum sate. Do ware said the furnishings were

auchoned off Saturday but the safe was not among

them. Someone stoleit the night before.

Of t tske

Sullivan

11:1000;

0002403

SECRET.

---

## Page 27

6/25/78

L.u.zetman

minutemen

O'''De Pugn and the Minutemen: WondeRland of the mind"

Ramparts, June 1970

by wilkamTurner.

Turner phonedal Pugh n 084. 1967 & posed parsibility

that renegade minutemen hall boen involved in the kennedy

assassination.

"Depugh readily agread, sayina that he nod

some evidence that might explain unanswered

questions

about events at Dealey plaza in Dallas. It was only a few

munths after this exploratory contact on the tupie uf the

assassination that the chief minutemen had gone undergruuna."

(Garrison)

when Depugh was shown

were

people who a mysteriously dieu,

included on list? "three men whg by Depughs admission were members uf

tre minutemon.

@ "Darly World (communat) clip ag April 1969 '''Minuteman arrested"

Richard Lauchli fe. arrested- described as leader of the

minutemon.

Possession of over 1,000 sub-machineguns d

olher weapens.

C002450

1111002

3 minuteman Application Form.

Lt. Gen. P. A. del Valle- Pres, of Defenders of the

American Constitutun.

Executwe Are."

Linc don Apt. D-3

trum Aleranaria,

9. letor

From 9892 to 551

Daton 11-29-63

pol

VA to

P. 0 Bux 68,. Norburne, missouri -

"Ialso marled a letter on 11-22-63, with information

fur my picket

sign for 112a-63

and 11-25-63.1

---

## Page 28

addressed it to P.O. Box 1195, the return addrew

on a lettor I nad recerved from you. To my dumey,

it has not been answered. The politeal history of

those two days appears to prove that my letter of

10-22-63 was earried out in full

and withar

unexpected roply, which brought out the true

nature of communism in full. This should solichly

establish our positun for the future. Inzue said

pa. or written nuthing to anyone outade thi letter."

(Rubert B. DePugh's no. 6 was 55 1)

confidential Address of 9892-

vincente. d'orien

Apt. D-a

Lincoln Bidg,

Presiciental Gardend,

Alex. VA da301.

0002451

11.120023

---

## Page 29

.''-"g

SECREL

Beturn do dedlie Heegelman file

19/7.0029

0002462

SEGRET

---

