# 180-10143-10343

## Page 1

180-10143-10343

11110403

SECHET

JFK BOX 29

@FOLDER 18

The 1911 Statt study And CommeuTs

on Book I of the 55C FinAl Report

Can how the tolowing Comments wl respeer

Lo two TAck Anderson Columns dated

1/19/11:: And 5/10/17:

1. ANtoNio VeciANA CoNtrated the

Apercy on three occasions

for ASSiStANeS iN AN

AssaSSiNatioN plot ApANsT

CASTRO: 17/60, 7/6z ANd 4/66.

On eAch occAsion he was tured

dowN:

2. VeciANA WAS NeVeR AN AgeNT

ton the Agercy, the Agency

Never had ANy CONtRActuAl

re/Arouship ul him, € he

WAS NeveR pAid ANy CIA

fundo.

3. VeciANA wAs registered in the

ISR by the U.S. Army

ON 11/622, And teminated W/o

prejudice in. 2106.

Alpha 66 The Arewey had

No responsibility for

Sponsorship of AlphA 66.

5. The Agevey files contAiN No

iNdicATioNathAT ANy CIA

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

outs in that

10143-10343

---

## Page 2

11110403

officers ever used the name

Monis Bishop AS AN AliAS,

NoR that anyone nAmed

Morris Bishop was eveR

employed by the Agercy

6. The thes stempts by

VeciAna to secure Agency Asistance

For bis ANti-cAsTRo AcTivities

Are As follows:

1 18/60: contented CoS a

in AQUANA,

(6) 7/62: interiewed At his

request 64 tarry deal from

DCD IN New YorK. VeciANA

A sevion CIA officer

There is No record that

the AgeNcy ever Acted upon

This uguest.

(C.) 466: LA DivisiON.

meT w/ VeciaNA iN

New You K City. The

meeTing WAs ArrAnged

Through Times Cogswell,

A netired NAvAl oticer

VeCiANA alts Never encoretzed on

Ime

---

## Page 3

11110410

Any of the three oce stions

to

follow throuph ol his

ASSASSINATION PIANS.

---

