# 180-10141-10491

## Page 1

180-10141-10491

JFK 22

Polder 3

ClA noted that

i trevie i its can files in manch is; is the

Veciona had contacted the Agene

Three times — la Decentian 1960, Jerl, 1962

listened to locan, exclend no laterant,

Ken on thir malker.

o There hen bes, wo

Azency relationship with lecterns.

The Committee i revile,

basically

meeting a with Veerna in 1960 ael 19686

Haver, a reme of files dated ful,?,

1962 revealed that contact with Vecen

Heel teen me bey don care Steer 1 se

dor operation al acteuty:

(Confere file

IN 24735,719/65)

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

10141-10491

---

## Page 2

Insert for VECIANA

fonzi

McCone insert

20%

200

On August 17, 1978, the Committee deposed John A.

McCone, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency

from October, 1961 until April 30th,

(205)

1965.

(Classified

Top Secret testimony, 8/17/78, p. 4)

During the course of the deposition,

the following

questions and answers were recorded: XXkX8XXSxXXXXA8*

Q: Do you know or did you know Maurice Bishop?

A: Yes.

Q: Was he an agency employee?

A: I believe so.

Q: Do you know what his duties were in 1963?

A :

NO.

... Q:

For instance, do you know whether Maurice Bishop

worked

in the Western Hemisphere Division or whether he worked

in some other division of the CIA?

A: I do not know. I do not recall.

I knew at that time

but I do not recall.

Q: Do you know whether Maurice Bishop used any

pseudonyms?

A: No, I do not know that.

(206).

(Ibia, pp. 45,46)

---

## Page 3

liver

fonzi

(DAVID PHILLIPS)

Insert into VECIANA

189

David Atlee Phillips testified before the Committee

in Executive Session on April 25, 1978.

182

used the name a Maurice Bishop.

He said he never

He said

he did not know

183

of anyone in the CIA who used the name dr Maurice Bishop.

He said he had seen Antonio Veciana only twice in his life,

the second time that very morning of his hearing before the

Committee when Veciana, who had testified earlier, emerged

184

from the hearing room while he, Phillips, was in the hallway.

Phillips

said the

first time he met Veciana was at a meeting

185

of the

Association of Former Intelligence Officers in Reston.

He said that Veciana was brought to that meeting by an

investigator from Senator Schweiker's office but, said

Phillips, Veciana was not introduced to him by name but

only as "the driver. "86

He said Veciana asked him some

questions in Spanish but at the time, berated he didn't

know who veciana was or why Senator Schweiker's office had

sent him to the meeting.

Phillips also testified that he had never used the

name $ Frigault and had never used a Belgian passport.

Phillips was shown the sketch

of

Maurice

Bishop but

could not identify it as anyone he knew.

He said, however,

189

"It looks like me."

---

## Page 4

footnotes for VECIANA - Phillips section

earings delone the Hous

of David Attee Phillips,

¡elect Committee oN AssAsSinaons

182.

Executive Session, classified testimony, 4/25/78, 2p. 89.

183.

Ibia

184.

Ibid, p. 86.

185.

Ibid.

186. Ibia.

187.

Ibid, p. 95.

188.

Ibid, p. 88.

189.

Ibid, p. 90.

---

## Page 5

170

insert Veciana write up

181

insert GUPTON

The Committee staff interviewed Doug Gupton on August

(120)

22nd, 1978 at CIA headquarters. fatafaintersion, 8/20/78,

2701) Gupton

said he worked for the

CIA Erom December, 1951, until his retirement in June,

1978, much of that time on the Covert Action Guidance

(171)

Gupton confirmed that he was in charge

of propaganda operations at the Miami JM/WAVE station

and

that his immediate

superior was David Phillips.

Gupton acknowledged

that Ross Crozier was a case officer

who worked for him and that he saw Crozier on a daily

basis.

(and) Gupton said he does not recall whether

E. Howard Hunt or David Phillips ever used the name of

(174)

"Knight."

He said he doe

not recall Phillips

ever

using

the name of Maurice Bishop.

When

told about Crozier's recollection of him referring to

Phillips as "MI. Bishop," Gupton said: "Well, maybe I

did. I don't remember."

He also

said, however,

that he never heard

the name of Bishop

stationed in Miami.

• When shown

Bishop, he said it did not look like anyone he knew.

Explaining his working relationship with

David Phillips,

Gupton said he was in contact with him regularly

in Washington

by telephone

and cable and that Phillips visited Miami "quite

---

## Page 6

2

(179)

often. "

Gupton said, however, that there were two

sets

of operations. His set of operations was run out of

Miami and he kept Phillips informed of them.

Phillips

ran another set of operations personally out of Washington

and, Gupton said, Phillips did not keep him briefed about

(180)

Gupton also said he knew that Phillips

used many girlis old contacts from Havana in his personal

operations. t

.eteeet meet deedd0001000100

---

## Page 7

footnotes for VECIANA - Gupton section

of Doug Gupton,

House Select Committee on

1 ASSASSINATIONS,

170.

Staff interview, 8/28/78, JFK Document No. 002101

171.

Ibide

172. Ibia.

173.

Ibid.

174.

Ibia, p. 2.

175.

Ibid:

176. Ibid.

177.

Ibid.

178.

Ibid.

179.

Ibid.

180.

Ibia.

181.

Ibid.

---

## Page 8

8

fonzi

insert for VECIANA.....

B.H. insert

194

204

On August 10, 1978, B.H. (Balmes Nives Hidalgo Jr.),

a former covert operative of the CIA,

was interviewed by the

Committee in a special closed

session.

(194)

secratalon

B.H. was a CIA agent

(195)

from 1952 to 1970.

Between 1960 and

(196)

1964 he was assigned to Cuban operations.

As such, he testified, he was

involved in "day-to-day"

operations with David Atlee Phillips. He characterized

Phillips as "an excellent intelligence officer" and "a

(197)

personal friend." t

When

asked

if he knew an individual named Maurice

Bishop, B.H. said:

"Again, Mr. Bishop was in the organization but I had

! no personal day-to-day open relationship with him. Phillips,

yes; Bishop, no. I knew them both...

Although he couldn't describe Bishop's physical

characteristics, B.H. said he had

seen him "two or

times"

172. in the "hallways or cafeteria

2=7z at CIA headquarters in Langley. B.H. said he thought

Bishop worked in the Western Hemisphere Division

(202)

and that he had a position "higher than me."

Think, passen

He could not be more specific. The two or three times he

saw Bishop, he said, was between 1960 and 1964 when he himself

was in Cuban operations, although, he said, he didn't know

(203)

if Bishop worked in that

area also. *E

---

## Page 9

2,

B.H. insert

Asked how, if he didn't personally know Bishop, he

knew the person he saw at CIA headquarters was Maurice

Bishop, B.H. said: "Someone might have said, "That

is

warise lishop, and it was differ a ran save hillas

or Hal Swenson, guys that I know." d

However, When shown the sketch of Maurice Bishop, V

now whats

B.H. could not identify it as anyone he recognized.

---

## Page 10

10

footnotes for VECIANA -- B.H. section

Commltee Interviewof Balmes Nives Hidaigo, JR.,

194.

classified top Secret closed session, 8/10/78, Iouse Select

Committee on

195.

Ibid, p. 6.

ASSASSANATIONS.

196.

Ibid, p. 8.

197.

Ibid, p. 29.

198.

Ibid, p. 30.

199.

Ibid, p. 31.

200.

Ibia, p. 33.

201.

Ibid, p. 31.

202.

Ibid: p. 32.

203.

Ibid, p. 35.

204.

fbid, p. 33.

---

## Page 11

HIdA loo lusERT

Ps 1

On bragust ra. 1978, in a ploard

session

of the Carmitter, ta tat

August 10ch. 1988. /Balmer Neves

Hidalgo Je. I a former covert operative

s the CIA, was

o intessie

ed by the

Committee in a

special closed closion.

A. war a ClA agent fro

195281970. (A)

Betence 1760 and

1964 he was abregaed

€ Cuban gresation

, Oaked if he

ever tenew an individual named

INSERT

Mauree Bishop, he said:

but latin, Me Picke pee in the gang at con

relationship with kim.

I brew them Cath.

Phalleps, цей; Bushop, то.

(Ibid. p.30)

Although be could't deserte Bishop, a

said he had aten him

''Awo on three times" (17 Id a 31)

the "hallways as cafeteria" (Ibid, r. 22) at CLA

headquarters in Jangley. M said he thought

Belop wirled i. the Worten Hamerphan Derson (R31)

and that he had a position "highes than nine. " (a 32)

He could not be how specific.

Bicks the two on three Pleas

I seen Bachop, he

aid, was letueal 1960 and 1964 when he Reall

von a Calan operations, althong, he said, he

didn it know it Bishop worked l that area shes (a3.

Anked, if he dedit pereally bras Townhop,

how he lones that the

person he

suaT CIA →

(A) Clood session?

(3) Ibid, p 8./)

---

## Page 12

P51

nsit)

As such, he testified, he wars,

Involued,

intoperation

Phelle

was Involved.

in "day. to-day "operation

with David

Phillips. No chos

polyed Shill po an "an

excellent intell gece officer

'"and"a percoal

friend." (Ibid r. 27)

headquarter cons

Manure Burhog, It. said;

"Someone might lake said, That in Maurice

Buhop,

Dave Philly

offerent from

as tel Suencon, guy.

Hows, when shou

p. 39).

a the sketc

I Mauric Bishop, It. Could not identely

it a anyon he recognized. (*33)

---

## Page 13

VECIANA

INSERT

In a review of its own files on March 15, 1978,

the CIA noted that Veciana had contacted the Agency

three times -- in December, 1960; July, 1962; and

April, 1966 -- for assistance in plots against

Castro.

classttied file 201-312966

• D1r• 188531

3/15/78, 78 0421219) According to the CIA: "Officers

listened to Veciana, expressed no interest,

offered

no encouragement and

never recontacted him

this matter. There has been no Agency relationship

with Veciana. "Footnote (IliD

The Committee's own review of the Agency's files

basically confirmed the stated conclusions about

the meetings with Veciana in 1960 and 1966. However,

A review of files dated July 7, 1962prevealed

that contact with Veciana had been made by an

asset, SKEWER-1, and that SKEWER-1 had given

Veciana $500 for operational activity.

fIle IN 24738, 7/7/621 Footmote

(Classified

---

## Page 14

14.

Fouzi

- 8/26/38

Me Vatele Calam Chitil qua Service - cam pea prize

Hichs:

WASH

1963. cheef PM Sectern.

-dishits pech Spanish before 1965?

1966- tacle to Hi: Colombia deck (Port'60 a Veksten).

---

## Page 15

15

Fonzi

8/25/8

• fi

Guy ViTAle -Dos 16 Der 1917

retered 28 Feb 1869

13 Dee 1465: Rensseoned Froem Wit/C-Miame

Operation Brauch, pm Senter to WAshlit

12 Dee 1962-Promerron - In TAsk Fouce W FI/el

BRANCH

12 MArch 1162- ReNts SIeNNeNt end thituspen to

(Bannih 4,

FI/<I)

18. June 1960. RentsseMeNT frit

SEATION,

Op Start. Recends luteinnous SecTion

To CS/es Darebpmeri Complement, Et Dru.

1967- working des a billege ce assatance acresenia,

profect a ingent 201 file, for the Pranal i PM proger on

1l MAy 1960 - mine from chief, Canteel Cour Dersion 6e

chief, recode serve duein offecture

1ApRil ApRil régueatuy reguesty record be blocked

to deny Agency Imployment

.. FITNESS RepORTS:

I No. 1960- Casually (renparely) assigned German

Brauch, EE section as citelligence crost.

12 feb 1962-DDP/UM 4- "His ability to functio, do

aun agent handles is extremely commendable.

21 AUG. 1962. Recommendation for promotion from

supervisor

Does mostle,

recordo work)

1463-1968- Recods indicate a

headquarter support

---

## Page 16

to Im/wave type of record Reaping

and brefing duties. Cornment on

11 July 1966:

I the operational histor, of Calian

paramilitary operation'" Ropeso te hio

Knolid se o. la percence phoneling

record re headerate top f

WH/ Cuba perramelitary once officero.

-Re Re appen to have been tumole and

with Eastern Europton Did. Fag. Off.

#/M/617 4/10/61-TDy t Viegula island, Fuento Rees.

---

