# 180-10105-10060

## Page 1

180-10105-10060

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10105-10060

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 013784

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: LICHTENFELS, BETH ANNE

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/00/1978

8

DE MOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE; ASSOCIATION WITH

OSWALD

OSWALD, MARINA; ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES

OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD; ASSOCIATES AND

RELATIVES

DE MOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/27/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 241.

v9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32260991 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DeMohrenschildt File Review

Beth Anne Lichtenfels

0UY84

During the last week in May, 1978, I examined the files of George DeMohren-

schildt at the request of staff attorney Mickey Goldsmith. The following is a

summary of the available files on George DeMohrenschildt.

The bulk of the files indicate a cloudy summary of DeM's past, his involvement

with his various wives, his occupations and his relationship with LHO.

981 Kipit 3151ü9 Sirs

In February of 1963, DeM asked a Judge Duvall if he could help a young man

get his discharge changed. Stated that the young man was from Fort Worth, had

defected to Russia and had returned. An attempt was made to reach the young man

but failed. The matter was dropped.

During a trip to Mexico City, date not given, DeM claims to have met a high:

ranking Russian official. (possibly Mikoyan ? )

3/5/le4

1403

_ DeM attempted to borrow $100,000 from Raigorodsky to develop a

- corporation which would develop commercial resources in Haiti.

The DeMs entered Haiti without a passport, but rather used a tourist card.

In an interview with Gary Taylor, DeM claims to have worked for the State

Department in the mid 1950's.

A Mr. Bunre (spelling ?) recalled a conversation with DeM in which

he (DeM) Stated that he had been forced to join the Communist Party while living,

in Russia ,a dn the alternative was death had he not complied.

A Mr. Tom Sands, manager of Pithin County Commission and owner of Aspen

Lumber and Supply Co. said that there never has been any organization known as the

Rangely Supply Co. in Aspen.

Report by James Wood 3/14/78

P3l puret

,i.m

On 1/63 he wrote a letter to an aquaintence stating that he had been informed

by the FBI that LHO was harmless, was interview at Port-au Prince and said that Max

Clark told him that LHO was o.k. and was of the impression that Max Clark had been

with the FBI.

383i kip: 9/129/4i1p

3/3/1,4 Mr. (déleted) met LHO in 1962. LHO had arrived at the DeM home in the middle

of dinner. LHO, DeMs and (deleted source) went to a house or nearby building in

Dallas and showed a film covering the entire trip to Mexico. (deleted source) did

not talk to LHO or see him again.

Col Orlov stated that DeM casually stated that he and some others were

trying to arrange for a divorce for Marina from LHO

DeM's resume states that he had special connections in Government circles in

Cuba, etc.

In 1963, members of the staff of a large unnamed business firm attended a

discussion group and LHO was there.

FBI Report 2/28/64- DeM contact with Fedor Alekseevich Garanin, a Soviet Diploma

in D.C. Alekseevich was also a member of the Soviet State Security Force and had

served

in Cuba

NW 50955 DocId:32260991 Page 2

---

## Page 3

April 7, 1969 - DeM showed (deleted) a card from President Francois Duvalier with

which he said he could travel anywhere in the republic without a problem.

Memo- Subject (deleted) May 20, 1963, according to Mrs. Matlack, subject had

appointments to see V.P. Johnson,

keating and Congressman Rogers.

Security Files on DeM

Sept. 28, 1967 - Memo, Subject, Garrison Investigation, p.6, Queries from

Justice Department:

"Any CIA association with DeM?-No

Ex FBI Agent W. Tucker-DeM may have been LHO's CIA babysitter in Dallas

•CIA COnnection---

disproved for OSS employment-suspected. of Nazi agent

July 18, 1962

August 13, 1958-derogatory information furnished to contact office interested

in interrogating him.

Jeanne DeM-employed as receptionist

from 1950-1951

DeM's brother, Dimitri approved for exploitation, April 11, 1950 as contact for forei.

intelligence on a limited basis-_

DeM Investigated by the FBI, 1941, 42, 45, 47, 57

1940-42, Considered to be pro-German, suspected of

being espionage agent

WC Testimony-DeM did not associate with LHO after 4/19/63 when they left for NY, Phil

and D.C.

Request for information on DeM made by

4/29/6

request made through

Interesting that L

Jinterest in DM

coincided with earlier portion of this trip and information would suggest that

possibly l

_and DM were possibly in the same environment in D, around April

26/1963

State department airgram No1-153 12/22/63 contains results of 2nd interview with

DM Also indicates that Marina lived with Mellers (Anna Meller)

Ruth Paine is

the daughter of Wm Avery Hyde OSC-157435 who was considered I

but did not receive security clearance.

Message from Port-au-prince, Oct. 19, 1966 - J and G DeM left for Haiti aboard the

Mona One- G listed as a sailor on crew and his wife as a cook.

Return Dallas had left for Haiti with several months

rent unpaid.

NH 50955 DocId:32260991 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Marilyn Wilcox, Pan Am employee--stated that she learned from Jean and Suzanne

Sawel (spelling ?) that DeM was a good friend of Robert McElhannon a top Pan Am

official.

At 0830 on May 7, 19--, a call was made to a Mrs Matlack to confirm that

Charles would be in D.C. on that day and that a meeting had been arranged with an

agency representative for 12 noon. Mrs. Matlack retorted that Jeanne and George

DeM had called her that previous evening to confirm a lunch appointment for 12 noon.

(alson but not included in this specific report, Mrs. Matlack had been asked by the

Dems to reserve rooms for them at a hotel She attempted to do this but had problems

because apparently the reservations were to include a black. She finally was able

to secure rooms at Alban towers.) Mrs. Matlack was concerned that the Cia and the

Army should not be working at cross purposes. She had received authorization from

ACBI to meet Charles at lunch and felt that it would be impolite to withdraw since

the Army considered her their point of contact with Charles. WH division then

wanted the meeting changed to the late afternoon. Mrs. MAtlack believed that due

to conflicting instructions she had been placed in the middle.

MATLACK-Domestic Exploitation Sec. ACSI

Diary

Exerpt 4/4/77 -Dennis Berand planned to call (deleted) in Dallas re

the Reader's Digest Article by J. Epstein.

"Sooner or later E will get into out

Dallas office, find (deleted) was there and try to make a connection" Dennis just

wanted to alert us.

Another reference to the trip 4/19/63 to NY, Philly, but does not mention D.C.

(illegible) mentions that Jeanne DeM saw gun in Apartment in Oakleaf, a

Dallas

suburbs

NY Times article 12/20/63 arrest of Russell McLarry on charges

of

threatening JFK. Lived in Oakcliff section of Dallas, a sprawling area where LHO:

lived.

DeM is said to have signed the Marion Anderson petition-believed to have high

percentage of Communists in D.C. area and is said to be on the list for the

advancement of blacks.

DeM is said to have detailed photos of harbor defenses at Corpus Christi.

Article written for Le Monteur, 3/31/63

states that DeM was awarded $280, 000 plus a 10 year contract for a concession

on

• DeM claims to have done geological work for Meek Corp., in offshore

oil , the Arabian Peninsula and in mentioning this, DeM looked around the room and

over his shoulder and said, "my connection with this, is, of course, confidential".

Worked through the Minister of Finance, Herve Boyer, to gain concession.

(deleted) said Charles and DeM were anxious to develop a number of business

interests in Haiti including an office in DeM's bank which would enter into car

Financing and would buy some of the banks commercial paper. (deleted) said that

M. Charles made an unusual statement announcing that the 3rd partner in addition

to Charles and DeM-a frenchman was coming into NY on Monday and that a meeting

had been ser up for (deleted)to meet him. M. Charles said, "It is not appropriate

for a banker to ask for Money." (deleted) said that DeM sought every available

handout in his office.

application for federal employment, May 1, 1964 (?)

On May 10, 1964, Irwin B Bornfruend saw Jeanne DeM and Galicki at Kyona Beach

35 miles outside of Port-au-prince

HH 50955 DocId: 32260991 Page 4.

---

## Page 5

State Airgram no A-406 11/4/63 from Port-au-Prince. Subject: US Businessman

signs contract with Haitian Gov't and local bank.

Arrived at Port dec. 21 no year luggage not checked

DeM discussed residence and

activity of citizen Mohammed Fayid without encouragement

Alexandra had been dating him and DeM did not trust him.

speculation-DeM's association with Mohammed seemsprofessionally necessary but dangeror

May 21, 1963-DeM drops into (code word) says Charles has returned to haiti and is

seriously being considered as the next president.

FBI Memo from Hoover to Rainkin 3/23/64

"Reference is made to your letter dated 2/12/64 wherein you requested a full scale

intelligence type investigation concerning G. DeM.

In view of the present residence of the DeMs in Haiti and their previous travels

through Mexico and. South America you may want to contact the CIA re DeM.

Memo 7/30/42 from Ensign Horrigan to Commander Vanderbilt, oss

DeM said that he was

a rep for an Irish film company distributing films taken

under the auspices of the Irish government during the Spanins War. His uncle's place

was raided after that at the suggestion of a friend of mine and found many films of

a pro Nazi nature which are intended to show force and effectiveness of the German

army.

Office of Strategic Services June 26, 1942 "It is impossible for us to advise you

definately for another week or two. In the meantime, if you decide to accept the Mexi,

offer, please advise us where you can to reached." letter to Dem from Vanderbilt

June 23, 1942 Letter to Vanderbilt offering services and resume Mentions new and

exciting enterprise in Mexico.

resume states that DeM was a foreign correspondence of 2 polish newspapers

and collaborated with Polish official press.

1941 -collaborated with Department of Economic Info and French Gov't

May 19, 1942 From Robert Alcorn to Vanderbilt, "Here is another non-citizen who

looks like good material.

H7 50955 DocId: 32260991 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Mohamed Fayid 1/12/64 siad to have connections with Castro represents General Commer

and Navigation Co. of Kuwait

FBI Report 1/3/67 Dallas DeMs close contact with Haiti is Wlodzimierz Galicki-

commercial rep in Haiti. Subject (deM) has also been on clos terms with

(deleted)

information re: picture taken of (deleted) per request of HSCA investigation

Possibility that the NY office

wanted a copy of the security check on DeM.

DeM had been in D.C. re: report stating, DeM acknowledged to the WC that during WVIl

he worked in the US on behalf of the French Intelligence,

a fact that perhaps was

not known at the time of our contact with him in D.C. and NY.

"Obviously DeM's acknowledgement of his addiliation with the French Intelligence

and his friendship with (deleted) L

indicate the necessity for reviewing

our friendship with them. Should we meet with (deleted) in NY if he requests an.

interview? What should we do if (source) shows up in the company of the G DeM

couple? Please advise.

John Hall was a classmate of DeM.

Telegram: From New York April 26, 1965 Vol 5.

"Now understand alleged agreement with man called Moski , who small travel agent

who depends on others for financing. Most ulikely that he could offer, let alone

implement mentioned terms. Please telephone collect. Regards, Manfred

In early 1964-DeM received a postcard marked Ceylon from Erik E. Lehmann-

•..Best greetings

from other side. Hope all is well with you-Has there been any

progress in our matters?

Letter from "Sam"- Dec. 8, 1964 ...Priscilla Johnson was with Marina the night

you appeared on CBS and she reports that Marina felt 'J' is jealous since

George has camel (could be carnal) feelings toward her

WH. 50955 DocId:32260991 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Vol 2

• DeM had applied for Selective Service in NY on Oct. 16, 1940-classified IV-4

; for hypersensitivity.

NAVY FILE OF DEM

Ref. ASD (ISA)Memo of Aug. 5, 77

DNI Memo of Oct. 31, 1977

Copy of NAVINVSERV Report of Investigation of Jan. 22, 1968 Subject : Mann,

Richard Tucker / CCN 01-12-68/08-0072-3x (NS.)!

Enclosure one is maintained on a NAVINVSERV investigation file on Richard Tucker

Mann, who was of security interest to the NAVY during the late 1960'2. It was not pro

ided with reference (b) because it was not cro-s-referenced to the NAVINVSERV file he

headings on LHO.

The balance of the documentation referred by the FBI consisted of one Navy

originated document and 2 FBI document portions of which contained Navy originated

information. The Navy-originated document is an ONI/District (DIO-Third) 3x5 card.

dated Sept. 1, 1942. It indicated that DeM was suspected of possible subversive

activity(not defined) while in Mexico and provides and adress for him in New York

City.

Review of ONI file related to association with Lila Pardo V. deLarin and

allegations made against him. And. FBI Document dated 2/12/78 contains synopsis

of information in enclosure one (1).No record of Lila in NAVINVSERV, Richard Mann-

no information pertaining to DeM

No ONI file on Del-preumed destroyed during routine purging.

ONI-Richard Mann: 1/22/68

By Special Agent NC Hill, Subjects father, Harold J. Mann (known Communist)

pumping two students of the Russian Language at University of Texas-Arlington,

Texas regarding Prof. DeMohrenschildt-purpose unknown-implied he represents the

Warren Commission in some manner regarding JFK investigation.

Interview of Charles McDowell (Col. USA Ret.) Dean of Student Activities

University of Texas-Arlington, Texas. Unusual behavior on part of student, Harold

Mann. Iwo Russian language students, Barbara Warner, 1519 College apt. 203,

Arlington, Texas and Pat Elena Parker, 1024 Linda Lane, Arlington advised that

Harold Mann, 4424 E. Lancaster

ave, Fort Worth Texas asked numerous unusual

questions about DeM:

Questions included: There is a conflict in the testimony by

G. DeM and Jeanne to the Warren Commission

• Does this not seem to be a reflection on

his character?

--Did DeM tell dirty jokes in his classroom?

--He's not much of a teacher, is he?

NISO NEw Orleans File reveals prior investigation of Subject under CCN 12-20-651

11-0163-3a which investigation was conducted to determine the extent of

influence over subject by his mother, Betty Jean Mann and Stepfather, Harold J.

Mann both of whom are believed to be Communists. (communist Party has been cited

by USAG as a subversive organization pursuant to E.O. 10450. NISO New Orleans

N# 50955

* DocId: 32260991 Page 7

---

## Page 8

files contain no information pertinent to this investigation

George DeMohrenschildt is referenced in the Richard Mann file

NW. 50955

DocId: 32260991 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Included in DeM's 201 file is a complete third agency listing which is available

from me if you need it for any reason. There is also a list of associates which

may or may not be as complete as the one in the paper entitled "George DeMohren-

schildt". This is also available.

It may be advisable to obtain the filed on the following people:

J.W. Moore-Agency personnel

Dorthe Matlack - Army Intelligence

G. Bouhe-

Dabney Austin

C.J. Charles-Haitian Banker

Col. Orlov-retired Marine

J.M. Bunce

Tom Sands-Aspen Supply

W. Galeki - Polish contact of DeM

Jean and Suzanne Saurel -former Pan Am employees

Henry Klepak

Sydney Schine

Hugh Aýnsworth-Dallas reporter knowledgable about DeM

Jack Horton-dallas reporter

Allen 01mstead

Who is Mrs. Finkelstein? Name is mentioned several times in files.

All of the above names appear in the DeM files as

deletions with the exceptions of:

Dorothe Matlack

Col. Orlov

J.M. Bunce

Tom Sands

W. Galeki

Jean and Suzanne Saurel

Henry Klepak

Sydney Schine

Hugh Aynsworth

Jack Horton

Allen Olmstead

State Department has files on DeM.

It may be worthwhile to question Jeanne DeM about Mrs. Matlack and C.J. Charles in

particular, and then any of the above mentioned names.

Follow-up after that could be in terms of the relationship between C.J. Charles

and DeM and his wife. r

Also, Any of the above mentioned people could be interesting to talk XXXXX&*

to if they are still alive and in the area, either by phone or in person.

There are also ten pages of notes l

-

to be sanitized and should be

returned at the committee within a reasonable amount of time. They concern the

meeting between matlack and Charles in detail. Mrs. Matlack is linked with

ACSI-Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence (army)

NW 50955

DocId: 32260991 Page 9

---

