# 180-10097-10488

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/6/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10097-10488

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014115

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

LOPEZ, EDWIN JUAN

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/08/1978

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

DEA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 2;3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 251.

v9.1

DocId: 32257430

Page

1

---

## Page 2

MEMORANDUM

#14115

TO:

Files

FROM: Edwin Juan Lopez

DATE:

May 8, 1978

RE:

DEA Files on Bernardo de Torres

On May 4, 1978 at 10:35 p.m. I visited Dave Melocik

and Louis Backrack at the Drug Enforcement Administration

and saw Bernardo de Torres' files.

The file is not complete.

His CI application forms are missing; only the FBI fingerprints

are included.

Follow-up on 75 plan is not in the file.

Nonetheless, attached are notes on Bernardo de Torres

and a friend

who informed on him.

Should be read carefully!

BNDD notes viewed at the CIA were also not in the file

at DEA. Need them soon!

Recommended follow-up:

speak to S/A Joe Doredant tabout

incomplete file or lack of

follow-up. Set up a meeting with

CIA and DEA re De Torres.

DocId: 32252430

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DEA Notes on Bernardo de Torres

SGI-2-0035

Report re:

Six-months status of Class II Participating

Cooperating individual

Class II participating cooperating individual can be

be reached through the Thomas F. Gilliotte law firm

May 14, 1973

-provided info on Raul O Leal--Cuban now in Santo

Domingo believed to be trafficking in narcotics

between Santo Domingo and Puerto Rico.

-expected to travel to Santo Domingo in D.R. within

the next few days and meet with the Defense Minister

on a legitimate business deal. Defense Minister is

a partner and friend of Leal (in a casino).

Traveling to Bogota and Caracas on personal business

Bogota 11/23/72 thru 11/26/72 and then in Caracas 11/29/72

C.I. stated while in Caracas that he will attempt to

contact Fernando Albuerne.

c.J. states Albuerne was

associated with the former Jean Restoy in the narcotic

traffic and then C.J. will attempt to arrange for future

negotiations with a R-5 agent for delivery of cocaine.

Albuerne

'is the cousin of Juan Restoy and: a former

singer residing in Costa Rica. The C.I. will contact

Caracas and Bogota Do's in the event he can provide

intelligence or requires assistance.

11/8/72

Traveled to Mexico and South America in 72. on

personal basis on several occasions and is

attempting to establish sources from which he

can develop detailed information on narcotic

trafficking in these areas.

De Torres states that he can lead BNDL agents to Juan

Restoy for a flat fee of 10,000. BNDD does not anticipate

that the payment of funds will exceed 1,000 in the form of

information and active participation.

was suspected March 15, 1977 of trafficking in Narcotics

as well as importing contraband from Columbia and South

America.

*Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs®

DocId: 32257430 Page 3

---

## Page 4

- Memo: Notes on de Torres

2

Monday June 9, 1975

was referred to the Miami Regional Office

Referral: via Mitch Warbell, III, through Lucien Conien

to G/S John Hampe.

Interviewed 3 times by S/A. Doredant - Gave info re:

Bernardo de Torres:

uses and sells cocaine

sources in Key West

associated with Organized Crime Figure

Santo Trafficanti

Santo Domingo, D.R.

M 5'9"

170 lbs.

Brown eyes

Driver's Licence

A352 46041338

exp. 9/18/77. Brown hair

INS #

- used as informant thougharrested for possession of cannabis;

possession of narcotic paraphernalia, maintaining a house use‹

as drug outlet, 2 counts of written check charges.

claims charges are false, trumped up and will pose

no problems to him.

July 1975

De Torres recently returned to Miami, Florida from

Panama and Costa Rica.

De Torres is picking false press

cards, written in English, for use in Latin America. De Torres

to over 450,000 to make an

investment for quick profit.

De Torres is planning a

trip to Columbia

Headquarters EPDS is

requested to place

• De Torres on INS Soundex and Customs

TECS to monitor his. return.

S..A. Joe Doredant

De Torres is suspected of arranging for the illegal

importation of about 400,000 worth of contraband from

Columbia, through Venezuela into the Florida area.

Traveled

through Manuel Rodrigus Travel Agency 2/15/74.

DocId: 32257430

Page 4

---

