# 180-10142-10087

## Page 1

180-10142-10087

The Marren commission and

mexico.

I Impo from Cable Chrono, Oswaldi

Mexibile and Wx-7241

A December 21,1963.

1. DIR 9046626(420-75))

IN PARISE

our prey anth ah

State Department. Asks

B Dancia sorry. No. RS.

ramined upot

Dates of DIRS ages thiAO

date.).

10142-10087

---

## Page 2

2

This cable reports that Helme

appeared before the Harren

ommission on 28 January

re what the Commissio

expected an the CIA a

jire Com

i commissioninti

ind techni

2. MEXI 8008

responce to DIR: 97829

Cig + Ro : Scott

stant the nation ita

the info, including that

from the soviet Embassy

[tajes, was reported to.

---

## Page 3

3

ants it in batt

normation pay hans

merican

FBI reporto, ths indicates anal

that the CIA would have

Thillyps,

(503-210)

#1: 1775 (contral 133) -

to Mexi on 8 ajaril

nomine nature testent

of effont of 4.5. investigating

agenciesabroad.

investigative effort of

Mexican

authorities

C. Consult 45+ Mexi author -

ities res: further investi

gation if any is determines!

necessary.

---

## Page 4

CIA FIleS

#1 Barney Baker

Regaest. a7 / Feb 78

DDO

4l26/28

$4 Thomas LiDavis Request 27 Feb 78

DDO 1106128

minuteman file

Os -

19 April 1978

OS

1w.6/28

Louis Kutner

06C.-

Request 14 Feb.1978

OLC

R: 1839 - 000

Roger.

5441

Dama

Rich

DIcle

Rinifger-o6c-

---

## Page 5

summay.

6/29/78

(KDIMANGO) SuppORt (Vol ?)

[50-6-32/2)

9 Jul 195> - 6 Aug. 1968

nothing between 10/20/62

and 3/17/65.

(ROmANGO) Ops (Vol I)

{50-6-32/3]

22/6

6z

(ROMANGO] IS (LIFEAT ]

Not por tAiNANt

---

## Page 6

Barney Baker.

(201-242862) 78

L.Wizelman

6/28

---

## Page 7

Octuber:) Comm.118/...

Andversey./ Choneise Reu.

Mevemant/ Nat.. Lobaration

Reel Peréyea + Gullemo Ruz.

5:80

Artendor. 1.

leve t legore fe Laty to trongt

nut... 2

but he winet hoe ngrthif he'd

gue to hor. Janl

---

## Page 8

Rewrite our interview.

oue intervice + compare at

Mexican Repet

10.

Finish we fit related

then Rewrte.

visits t

OSWALD

Done

Discrepancies

Sectims

---

## Page 9

Carswell

Warbell

Phillips

OGE

Milliam Manes

000, 25,060, 0F,

OF,

Machenhut

DoRis 1958

wired all but Of

on 815+816 by OZH

Jim

McDoNAld

060.

Dick

RINiNGES

1104

1385

Ill 064

---

## Page 10

I

II

Summary of bay of files on

WURABBIT]

0z

tore ct dealt with

box provided begins o

files from 1945-Accountin

records

statements

wasa

IV

editorials, eto to foreign

subscribers.

Box # 3: financial records.

Box #4 fine

ncial recordo.

Folder 206, Box "1 "Operations"

ZiR/

---

## Page 11

4/3/78

HARDWAY

summay of @KOPERA/LIAISON,

-R BLESSbile: +11 61-813844

The Compan

suraeger

it stened

2

4

backhe no one in athe

the author of the memo to

two other Caland who were

testing on to mello

says. ZRBLESS/1

was

subjarojest of /WUBONBON.]

---

## Page 12

4/3/78

HARDWAY

summary of (02) Fardy.]

Development and Plans

bulgest ret a Regato

dated 6/26/63 describes the

target piot and to be

Project Action form dated

8/28/63 signed buy Karamessine

approves a $65,000 budget

for WITAry for the fiscal

year. 1963 (July) to 1964 (fune).

Memo dated 3/17/44. to GDP

from Fracy Barnes requests

that /VOTARDy / budget he

increased to $ 80,000.

"The requested increase is

needed.toca.corer.an.unan-

ticizated developmental charge

3 IN

12

---

## Page 13

13

---

## Page 14

LOCATOR: 1112.

!

stack Novel

PACKA

ct

KENNEdy ASSASSINATION- GATTISON- 196>

Nates fram review of Harriso

ile: 8118/78, A276

Memo from Donovan E. Pratt,

allatched routing record

sheet-note fron R. G.

Rocoa to ofe.

parat: " He regarded seorge

this is an active case af for

as we are concerned. Weare

certain that de Mohenschildt

received mail bearing th

return address of a forme

knos

that case. If not, Mr Osbourne

or. Mo. Burch @'Neal can fill

---

## Page 15

NotES

interview

9:45 Am

63

RDER?

8/22/18

letter

5/9/29

retired - Herndon.

am

CoA ah division-.

ALsO

left miami met top one

CA Suidance, support, project

Mo spojects reviewed lay

---

## Page 16

2

used

use of more than one alias

probably = common but

could happen.

alias guesses 3004.4 not

all registered

0o aliases "damned peculiar.".

No way to keephack.

12/51 began

6/30/78

prior to 1960.

= but sturges.

at IMWAVE in change of

prap ops

---

## Page 17

3

workine

ene to guana his

Castro's wife!-

commercial broadcasts

time mine on boright

ime- given

judance

but given pretty

nuch free nign otheries

+ Phone

~dail

the

came down quite often

get to male quaten

formal beadership.

11

---

## Page 18

33i873

4

ontrol overgroups,

reletive term- mutualit

o there ho respent for ine

most sincere patriots

DRE

knew dealt @header

Locat call metingen

was

personally in cont

media, labor, students,

thes the interests

Daily contacts somet

118

---

## Page 19

5

not.much.coord @Huent-

Knightt- does it recall

Hunt

~. Phillips

ng na

never met agents together

with Phillips

never recalls hearing

any of Philliges

Phillips inmediate HQ losi

ted to him through

was discussions @ Phillips,

Do rought prolems te

ttention of chief. of base o

at least make him aware

of discussion @Philliss.

thinks COS was

DG, left before shackelig.

red.

(RAy O'MIARA?

maun.com

i was to keep

Prilos intermed lems hello

---

## Page 20

???

if he could.

dending agents intor datin

dishit work @/fanfenis)

but remembers n

hasn't head of Pancho Naraids

uncle Jony. - may

how

worked for one of groups

wathout employe sow him

dailyst remember that he

woula know what he wa

ybuut.not

periods do time

periods titi when

had problems.

2°

---

## Page 21

Dave.

coord. s

not all propot done by

miami -

Dave out of D.C.

ever met Die

Diaz Lang.)=

FRD aldo did prop so

consulting.

sure he met @PtH but doesn't

recall specifics.

did not keeg him briefed

or erate sets of ges.

never heard of fiorini until

hit papers

Hemming. heard

new dave Morales) from before

Miami

21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

76e=

in a guns for heroin deal

Daird A Phillips

itive components)

That

12/1/51 to 2/28/518 contract agent

1251020713115344 Employer

314/54

201/31/55

161530

2/1015 k

stAff Employes

2/2/56 t08/13/58

8/19/58 t0 3/13/60

3/14/60 - to retire

1960 1966

StAff agENt

CONT. Ag. (CubA).

staff employ,

MExico

in 1963 was in charged

Cuban Operationo, Where

Mitchell L WarBell III

Charostesses 192, he dian.

try to get several hatin

SECRET

40

---

## Page 23

0G was in Havana on TDY

657 maybe

Pured old contacts from

new who. C-A was-die

work a hins-he worked

ADP

Dolid not do trouble shooting

that he remembers.

Docan't remember DPusing

name Bishop.

dant remember.".

Carowell photo-.

a ID

looks a little like Rosi

тел:

no IDow.n

22

---

## Page 24

9

shitch: dacoit look like

doesnt know Bethel

members.na

never heard name of

sióhos

Can

Campanda relocant

ver met Shackel

le became chipel until

Reynolds-retired

e hits a check

to 56. yus old.

D.P.

endly offer he left

close.

OP probably used old assets

international reps.

23

---

## Page 25

ilton

10

after BoP doesn't know

extent or nature of prop

(person) familiar

no memory of use

(Buchanan)- seen name

contects defiorini

no knowledge of use

C-A handled by Phillips

radia

sent Maimi News

was used to place articles

D.P...

would have been on

who used him,

(Portell Villa'-familiar

~met

EDG/didnt use i knowledge

Ac- familiar but not

connection

2%

---

## Page 26

CFC - after.de!?

to MEXI

but 0G I not involved

Vanellot slightly familian

" aware of use

Carbonella Navarros

never beard of Celluna

Fantasma.

no Kennedy prop aware.

suprise

But probably Cubans

Never heard of alpha le

25

---

## Page 27

12

comment on Crazizany, but

Came

restates no recall

could have discussed. problems

have been said re: DP

but its possible- he just

wsnt.sus

D. G. handled dome of Bender

agents prior to Hunts arival

did not know Lesnick.

26

---

## Page 28

ScAlEtti.

6+) - M. elest

n. desk respon

3 awareness of op

21

---

## Page 29

Hardway

3/16/78

• from

vouchers

4/28/60

too truel advanced)

HAVA

5/16/61 Travel Voucher covers

periad 317/60 to 3/11/60

lists two "funds ano

transportation tickets

adianced to traveler

for Havand indone

dated 8/31 Headquarters.

mahar agarity.

Neste sau

+ Vest to Washington,

17 March. Left Key

2%

---

## Page 30

CONTESITAL

Wests march, ariving

D.C. 1I March

12/15/61

travel; D.C. to Meric

City, to has angeles

andreturn.

10/3/63

Request for advance of

Funds to cover per

unat

richie aurplane

Miami in itinerary

Inbo from computer listing

of voucher information;

1957-19651

5/21/59

6/9/5-9

1/16/59

8/6/5-9

10/14/59

COME 10/14/59

5/11/5-9

TRY DC NY

TVL ADVANCE

TOY CAR NY

TDY FLA

MIA HQS TOY

TDY HQS

TOY WH

29

---

## Page 31

CONPDENTAL

4/28/60

3/21/60

12/15/61

TDY HQS ACCTG.

TDY MIAMI

ADU TDY MEXICO.

CONFEERNTAL

30

---

## Page 32

COMAORATAL

but tony from Fe ad

Domestic Bravel-Hunt

2ping tan/s obey with

on 4/24/42 and 47/25/62

Domestic Travel-to NY. to

meet with WUBorBonfand

UHUSTLER?.@M 1/30/63-1/31/63.

02

same.for. 2/14/430

same for o/A 3/and15/63

same for

0/7 4/11/63

come. too

dravel Order-same reason

5/1/63 - Voucher attatched

puts date at 5/5/63

some for 415103 + 618163

711163+7112163

+161634817163

COMET TA!

31

---

## Page 33

Bequet for advance ab

same purpose,

9126-27/63

dravel Order + Noucher

10/a3/43 (order).

10/24/43lwoucher

Order 181126-27163

5.P

voucher 91826163

Voucher 15/5/63

s.P.

SAME IN

das

Ins, Fet, march, ayail

CONSult

0z

[GEASSAULT 3

OffiCAS

CONFERETIA!

VIV

32

---

## Page 34

0002318

SECREE

Mitchell Livingston HerBell

a Provisiona

the Central Intelligence Agency

on August 4,1959. VerBell'

first contacts. with the

prior to

thency accura preta

SECRET

33

---

## Page 35

questions -

whats an RID filer? -

requeska (AMS PEL La)

L AMLUNCH-17

Sensitive Doc! Input Reccra QuEGA} 13907;.

5 Feb 64 From RIDIAN.

@ XAA Z-17443.

24 Feb 64

When document

34

---

## Page 36

05(3442)

copy of than Hardway's not

SECRET

2/13/78

Periodic File Semina

one component y

Alexis Davison A Nedelya

articlemmed one Malcom

Toonas the superarisa

inaR

Taperations in the

102 2

Anniel CarsuellF after

a tea i tranel lias

April of 19l3

Pairsmell pis 6, 180 lla, hais

Luis, Posada:

1960 = member of the Frente

Revolicionario fose a

Echero

na in Cuba

In april of 1961 he was.

trained for the Bay of Pigs

SENDE!

38.

---

## Page 37

SECRET

-

in bautemala.

Ino October 1961 he took en

sabeth the Finestane

elba cenan this

jo tal, March of 19630

1963- On February 21, 1963

the CiTA jaut inter motier

*the beaunacratic ma chmery

secra

a in the katft

2nd Platoon (iegrons.

Co: B, ist Battation, 29th

Intenta: Bugade his

wife, Maria Concepcion

Castaneda Napoles in. Chicago,

(PDOB: 1931, Cardenas, Martanzas,

Cuban appied 9654 laste

St., Apt C, Hunington Park, (A.)

In Agrist the CIAgranted

ermissión foran intervie

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SEBACE

143-

al Posada, Posada Claimo

1964a boonda leftethe

hang in Moirchesitt

" the rambof and leutenant

Dia ptember she claimo

he

the Pan Am. Etern

Co a35 5w leth bt, Miname

He also claims to have

in the D

11965 dm April Possida is.

in Miami working as an

autobiady repairin

an wher

he as was recruited asia

trainin

tramint instructor.

TONI

35++ 9-19

---

## Page 39

SECRET

un jean"

Nota storaida claimo to

ten the chief.

campes for, three an

20NTH

~ unspecifica years

in the lanty 6os

Additional info:

AKA: Luis Clemente CArriles

Bambi PaSAdA CAcrilEs

Bambi CArrilEs

JUliAN POSAdA CArrilES

JuliAn CArrilES

2. He hais, at times, listed as

references:

Carlos Porro, 395 E. Jallmadge,.

Akron, Ohio.

Antonio Parcia, 3604 3. W.

26th Terrace, Miami, Fla.

Segundo Ortes, 645 Carnegie

Ave, ahron Chio

Dick Patterson, FBI, Akron, Ohio

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECRET

= 5-

3

4.

5

7.

55 46265-72-1315

660232445

5d0ssi2e

*265-17-345

Brana

so associates mite

"hefty pasenthal

in Miami

Nd 5506g

Posin

aimo to be ain

stillant Marksman

Cerear Diasolado.

DOB §/1e/21, Lorado, Jeras

emplared in 1961. Has

allegedly been involved in

angel no guns too

gas landing an invasio

m 1967.

Va CIA recruiting agent

Diordado usas the under-

one agent who trustid

CHarpen in 1922

SECRET

---

## Page 41

SECRET

oment in epile. He hag

regulation pluste

Gina chas after impersonatio

Trafficero.

rocites in Cuban Affaira:

Eduard heuro Bankston =

Chester rau

AKA LochowsKi

Rolandlo Masferras

...S.

Price liman Rakes)

11379 President Drive NE

Blaine Millage, Miner

abent Bayard

Alter seph Mücken (Mackem

00B 12/13/37, Omaha, Nel

2609 N. Potomas

Eduaro

1 Margen

Paul Bethel

Charles Hall

Robert K. Brown

41

---

## Page 42

Hunt Summary

HArdWAY

files reviewed.

4/1/78

EPOEM- (UURABBIT) Correspondencs

folder7, Bo?2,

2 (CULARABBIT) Termiuation

Folder. 1, Box 1

MPS Project file ( WUPUNDIt

apo. inclicded in 64

PrAEgIR 29

Frescom Fund, IN 3" (coNDüit)

>9

(SEAmÁN's SErvicE INstituta

LA PrAsas SpANish AfCiliate) 24

29

Mere en sone ties?

and (WWTRANsitf which were

resppensible for publishina

tus books each.

There was one "one time only"

aperation in 1964 FUUDSENDERF

approvas evidentli?

SUENET

42

---

## Page 43

Operational stucture. There

was one operation that wa

primarily a develepment

wasa projeat to provide

news dervice tor boreian

sress, through

deretonit feragt fando

procurement.dn.F463-64

ook procurement was

ande direpepate pagiestivere

chan

chameled totrasgeisthrough

4. Mes Project File [CWMDBONBON?

5

11

pAR.t I of 3,

" IQUY) HUSTLER]

6. [WBON BON) Accountwgs Folder 24

---

## Page 44

BonBon/Operations Y.61

folder.25

ontains two memos for the

Records by Hunt re. 8/8/67

meetings

sURPaNOIT I Support folder 27

10 CUISONBON/Development + Plans. F19

12 WUPUNDIT.) CIA Book Publishing

F- 28*29

13 (UR BONBON.] FY 65 Support

F.21

F 23+22

44

---

## Page 45

SECRET

mickey boldsmith opened

the interview by explaining

the release letter and the

mandate d the House Slots

boriet lection of the Merico

(bertetner fucas responsibl

45

---

## Page 46

_ SECRET

was reading the Main dit

of the telephone tap operation

She recieved there transcupt

remembered

That they receved all the

transcripts from all th

tayes on the foret embassy.

This included the spanis

and the englie tranoripts

were usualli

y recuered later

than the too wish ones

indicated that

She had a working knowledge"

of spanish. t

Mo sistetner twas

responsible for regating ea

46

---

## Page 47

SECRET

3

In 1963

cripts.were.read.dail

as a matter of routine Th

photo production was not

series unless ant to

the

Inestetners racieved coge

carbon copies of the transcipt

ow. yellow paper. extracts

from the transcripts were

on "p" files.

They were less sire but

falsere designated 00--0)

4?

---

## Page 48

SECRET

4

Bath

I Sestetner3

indicated that materials

Some

Inglish. Mv. testetner?

indicated that he had a

dose working relationsh

with Boris tarasaffland

reliedaw him for person-

are in

ratoff cupt when ther

was no one else to do it

and[bestethen]

48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

-5-

have been reported within

talsos

nembered that the

photo surveillance was

constant except sala

be down for secinity

recier

They had!

satanabes at the conser-

personalits terments orally

44

---

## Page 50

SECRET

-6-

win uritting seperat

from the tran

(beatene does not me

remember

about@swaldspeaking

hoken Russignd Sestetner?

indicated! that they did

ow occasion, work closely

with Anne Goodpastine

anthings of interest ther

between the Cuban and

soviet Operations.

land bestetne:]

indicated that thei

indicated thet thing rantinely

did make step notation

---

## Page 51

SECRET

-=>-

about Oswaldo Russian

He said that he had never

Fordered| Jarasoft )not to

gence, counter-espionage, etc

conversey indicated that every

Ther

that sent at not the

24 There said that the

unilateral taps were not

directed at the boveet.

Embossy but at the private

residency of sort of

No sistetner said that

there were no penitration

igents in either the barue

Consutate on Militany

allachis ollins

said that tag had nos

and (bertetros)

5

---

## Page 52

SECRET

- 8-

contest unth anyonde

aerations then, than

contacts were restricted

to social meetingo, discus.

sion of personality evalua-

tions, and on rare accations

transmittal of the tapes ar

he was more than

they knew

and that he was chief of

Covert Action at the time.

Bad remembered that het

shaw as Chief of Cilian

operations but. were

unsure of the time. They

---

## Page 53

SECRET

_9-

would have had access to

everything.about@owald if

he had been interested becaus

he was close to thin Scott

They said that Robert of

Zambernardif vas professionally

ation. His job was processing

and that Charlotte Bustas,

to the best of their recollectio

also worked on the Mexico

desk. They said that the infor

shed would hange gone

ar higher interest involved?

A reportafa foregner visitin

a foreign easy would not,

53

---

## Page 54

SECRET

10

in Molestetners apionion,

slaghigher intrenest on

in late sum

They said that Charles of

maintaining

asawanalyst in the

destian. os

masan

antude agent beaning

Flagent. It worked for

Twas

as was Hoodasture, of

and was nivolved in

the sensitive surtallaning

operations, SECRET

---

## Page 55

SECRET

wavalso

this group (bestetner?

thinks he may have ram

the photo surveillance of

the barrel compound

haw. the

phusical sunrillance team.

was.ou

technian in gerations, il

mostaf. the

natall of then

Milestetner said that

one of the conversations. He

said that the tapes were

not kept very long befor

ne

Milkestetion said that

not to make margina

SECRET

55

---

## Page 56

SECRE

-12

Ans

officers

of.how@swald.first.come

to their attention

indicated that her memory

ungs that the hat ate had

recieved about @scald

was that he was seeking

a visa. Mo. Nestetner?

indicated that he had

revrewed the file prior

Lad

1 was from a tran-

sipt of ascald's conver-

sation with a gauron.

---

## Page 57

SECRET

-13-

did not recall

This transcripst as the

first one the saw. After

seeing the cable she sent to

HQow. 1018 she said that this.

ranicist must have freen

the one becourse of th

similarity of the infor Ther

asked whether there wasa

reference too visa in the

conversation; she acknow.

legded that there was not

ou telegram to Mashingtor

and the bact that he was

talking to the consulate has

made.

itorous to her

that he was seeking a visa

twas asked

what action has as be after

Recand thy transcripto

have had already

Because of the since of

57

---

## Page 58

SECRET

14

into from pror tran..

beatetner suggested that

some of the prior traw-

scrysts. many have been

indications that

cknowledged writin

had no recollection

she said, the wrote the

cable (MEXi 8455) and, at th

---

## Page 59

SECRET

15

"p" file was in his hand-

writzine

the "p

He fifile caposened. Both

acknowledged that the

connection between the

conversations was noted

prior to the assassination.

Wher

was

isked about the paragraph

m'mexi6453 about th

photo she said that she

must have checked the

photos. She was showna

phat he thought that that

~ photo was chosen bro

October first but was sun

since Aswald had indicated

o photo productio

from confor pays torto

59

---

## Page 60

SECRET

-16-

also have been reviewed.

she also said that Anne

DIR 74830)

onse to Mexi 6455

speculated

that Scott had wutter

it alter ten to indicate

nation requesteal had been done.

6°

---

## Page 61

SECRET

-17-

aid that the

spoken to Kostikor she

said that she could not

remember. but she wais

must have

proof, as otherwise she

filing and nortin st

to the date sephis memo

'

---

## Page 62

SEGRET

18

then

(seattles) said thana

was ver

this hady unlikely that

been discussio

with Dave life now ledged

in of assa suesting

not recall recievino

told that that, is had

a photo of Oswald, (Sestetna)

first.answered.in.the

positive to the detratio

know

---

## Page 63

*SECRET

19

ind obtained bu

he would petto that

I Satetner acknowledged

Mexi 7014. le explained

justin the date of pas

was that the date was

september 28

Neither/Sestetoner non

could recall

specific details about the

been done by Anne

to gestine stand about

this unusualSECRET

6}

---

## Page 64

SECRET

-20=

he getting raid the ther

the conversation of 9/28

was reported before on

after the Station learned

that this conversation had

been connected to Aswald

Quilthe Mexicans?

Mexi. 7033

nowledged

initino

said that all info

available had been

reported when the 9/27

conversations, the sirit had

written

(bestetner acknowledge

that it would have been

very unaugh on so to

at least o times and not have

been picked 180l55 the photo

I/NV

---

## Page 65

21

SECRET

aperation

visit + the report was

the than routin, eno

isits to the Cabaw and

soviet embassy alone i

enough to rule aut the

possibiliti

esthers insong

When shown the

perously transaribed"

the

that it isterla tre

---

## Page 66

SECRET

Fand unusual that

messines releasedl

the 1010 DIR

do to the possibility

phaneiracy phe said

wile ow

gency inpolvennen

ad never

heard of karamessine

nvolve

cable beement @ theidio

We asked them not

to discuss anoth

de wha

them with an

staff that En

SECRET

606

---

