# 180-10144-10093

## Page 1

180-10144-10093

SECRET

p.1

Questions for Thomas B. Caravin]

I. Employment.

A. Pusent precion -retured a still w/CIA?

B Bition at time of rescination (in Parin)}

Mature of pretion, ses possibilities.

Nature of cover

onusiation houses dinelf and tari station

- Bitter comesications

- Use of cut-outs

c. Prition puir to sevegument i Pai (5R6)

That is fusetion of SR a Brakeh?

Rescuption of comporesents within SR Burned

Nature of his reprecilettes as thief o 5R6

D. Pretion pur to 5R 6 Assgament

Khu uas the stationed?

That was nature of wock at thes particular station?

What was dis pretton Me?

That were his repinsibilities in that prestion?

Did states dave asy wolvement w/U-2 pogram?

What leads of operations did the stateor conduct?

hainet the USSR?

That was the relationshe bares the

and the

sere аку ореласоко лин и суннеток With the meluary?

He de aware of these persons who were military stelyla.

personnel?

10044-10093

SECRE

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3 me

---

## Page 2

SECREI

p.2

III. 435 - 173-A

A. Explais uncumstares sounding the writing of the mens -

was it wetter in response to some kind of notations for

all. CIA. perse to report any wallable information regardug

WHo or was it spontamous in this part?

B. Love steet

Kids was

Rotect b: Kampiell? ]

Explain.

C. 1/25/65 Carasia memo

edestify Halter P. Haltiger; Wey was mens witter to dis?

letify 1E0000...

7

What is the distinction beturer the "b Blanch" i the " Researd

Section'?

Blo ur the Cuff & Deputy Kief of the b Relaid Section?

When did this discoson tike place?

wahas el sumine of 1960"

o when hho was in route to H.S.? Edoes this mush wt when

Caves say le left 526 for Peris assignment.? ]

Ideatify KUTUMP.

What were "the stable chaises"?

He reternig defectors outinly defed idy SIA?

I. 50, ely whick comptreats

He such persons we debrifed Is loute fion USSR

to I.S. ly asster stetion o.in a safe house?

lak you gie asy details regarding the discussion conceing t

presbility of teureurng Oswald? How was this decleut

-resoura

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

p. 3

[Paragraph 72, STATE DENT

edentify PACID.

What send of afrain ted eases freer ence i

What did he mess by swalds unusual Sekeria"?

In regard to tag do subracates not to puce to dad, wha

Lid ile mean? Who were the subordinetes to whom de was purg.

Thy was tuck of paiticle interest?

Was Buck a relatarly wakeous aur?

Was las ais favore of be exsteace of as intelagence tarsing scred

[Paragrape ] 3.

Thes was de phasing te it?

Idestify KUDOVE. J

Wky does memo state he was phaseng out of KUDOVE.

thes refer ta phasing Hut. of HAS or sut of DDP atogetle?)

Addendum

Explain Legal Travelies program.

Kha ran it?

What kind of formation we thy sukug?

How did thee deffer from laces in whick.

tracellus puir to ther departuce, ther debrif them upon the retars?

What ded. he mean dy the Havry story"? Its unlekely that its

a typo. in light of the fact that the mane Oswald already appeare

turee before in tat same seaterce.I

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

I like carris perei contacted ily anyone in the agesy cong,

Ms aristian quor intrust a too as expressed in tis men

IT. Subsequent to chis our deranon as referenced 435-173-A,

sid there ere dese that are i We he conditi d.

would de, in any of his poetess, have KUs I LHO WAs Or

lad we beer is agest of the CIA or any oti stellegence oganuation?

Whe, is what durses, would have dad accene to the type of

про. ?

How would agery aissciation te induated, if at all, I a peons

file?

Would a 201 file indieste spurationel use? How?

-201 peng seet.

Has de aware, in les poutcos as luf of SR 6, that a 201 file on

swald asted? If 50, did le lave a lofy?

Ideately "AG unde

"Other sextfuation

that tape of info is gerrally peet in the entegory?

Why would" C/SI6." And "IR" he lored Hit?

Kky would ISIs have opened the file on Oswald?

Why wouldnt the se dwrion have stered a we On LAl upon

learning of is pliesee in the USSR?

SECRET

---

