# 180-10143-10356

## Page 1

180-10143-10356

Palmer

7/12/78

SEGRES

Tile Review

SECRETA

General Council

Orlands Bocch

0. 12 del. 196.7

Letter D I. Walter Gagley

11211276

Promi Sacusence R. Zouston

Re -electronic ourseillance of Bolindo Tasteres

Cess Diondado of Custome said he x other

agente employed tranomette I rececier & monitor

a meeting in how 1766 at which Inaspere

was present. Ine of Disadados informants

Carried tranemitter into meeting + listening posto

mere located in automobiles recitiy: Lissadado

had received authority o use this supment

from Gerald Batimer who had for pernicion

from Customs in D.Cx US. Attorney's office

24 Pelwary 1967.

1004038

Memorandum (unoigned.).

subject: Estimate of Kamage Whack Could Accrue

I C/A Meanie through Prosecution of the

Rolando Manfara Hastian Luvasion Jromp,

Recent news stories about CIA. Connectio

with Pan American Foundation & Inversity of

Miame o recruitment of Culaw. Pilote in the

borgo Could easily trigger phluit, with

inevitable focus on the south Campus of

Miami 7 on ete miami Station Cover firm

I on ite

10143-1035k

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

7/12/18 Palmer

OGE

Orlando Bosch

Crescial succee, SECtE

The long atanding ammoisty of eertain

epile osganizations against the C/A could tempt

best accused t attack CA I gain acquittal,

blackew the CIA, o epert preseme on U.S. for

poling his atitude could ales he applied

Islands Boack twice sceordeig Soner

i memo

dated 3 may 1967 to General Cornel

from Tal 8. Willanion II

8. May 1967

1763275

Ltr: 7 p. Walter Yeagley -AAG

Thom: Laurence R. Houstow- Jon Conel, CIA

of all the persons woolved in the Thame

handing trial, charged with solation of Are

Control det x Prentrality Cet, only Orlaudo

- Each was o operational interest Is the

Agency, None has ever beew the bulgeit

of electronie surveillance

1604037

Polando. Otero Hernandez.

Wiiim Clay, public defender in. Dade County,

defendeng Oero on bombing Charges. Adircid C/A

defence witheres will implicate CIA and

Ted Sorenon in bombing in Miami area,

Stelier murder a ler Cubana explociou

---

## Page 3

7/12/78

Palmer

SECRET

OGe

Carlos Iternandez

Bumbaut - no notes.

Alpha 66/ Torriente Group - no notes. all

1970 information,

11.61276

SECRET

1904035

---

