# 180-10144-10408

## Page 1

180-10144-10408

DDO

File summary

3/3/78

SabriHed

3/3/78

Dino vincent Cellins

Cellasis 201: Bas the inclusive dates of: 1971-1975. The

Fole states is closed , the review form is dated & Jan 1975

The file cantains a dispatch to the

,. dated Bpril 1979

Regarding Headquarters Trace Results on Dino Vincent cellin

The document includes the following statement:

1 Dino Cellinis mantuned in UFGW-157 15 De 1961, but

" uncible to locate this document

Jose Joaquer sanjenis Pertomo

2-83 Feb 1961 cable

stating:

mena reported cellu

worked at the tropicana onc Rivera in cara before goingto

• Haiti, subifeninis now residing 1a459 rey stone

Rd. North Madem

3-18. 5001966 report that celline is a well knoun

washington Dis gambler and "is or was a close trend

ot D.C. gambler Joseph Francis Nestini:

4- Refers to a True magoone article, April 1970 pp

83,82 and ENERGO reports dated al Dec 1960;

18 Jan 1968 9 10 Pusly 1976.

The ble noludel an entelope with no label

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

180-10144-10408

---

## Page 2

File summary

DDO File

suboritted

317/78

Dominics Bartone

aKa Nick Barton

vol 1 of the Barione file covers the persod frum December 1959

to september 1960. -A a01 file requert was made an Dec39, 1959.

Bartone's DoB is 8-8-13. Characterized as a smuggler.

Under cumments in adi file request form; "Inas much

as be carries a qua at all times he is considered armed

and dangerous. Arrested by US. Custums agents, miami, for

attempted bribery and departure of munitions laden

plane destined fue Dominican Repablee."

In a cable dated fug as, 1959 from

reported that the manager of the panamality branch bank

informed.

on Bugay that a Dominic Bertone,

sent a lawyer with a large amount of cash to Panama

City bank, Miami, to opena checking acc't. Manager

delayed accepting acc't.

He indicated bellet that funds were

connected usth William morgan.

---

## Page 3

Page Denied

---

## Page 4

A document seanster and cross reference form, datec

Bet 84,1959 repots that Bartone said the case against him

n miami was being nixed. Bartone was in possession of a i

checks for 150,000 each drawn on foreign bank , Issued to him

by a Batista group in compensation fur arplanes. He said he stur

had 10 planes to dispose of

Bartone reported tu be

connected with Teamster Union officials n clevelona, onio.

Another cross-ret farm, dated 5 may 1960,

reports that Joseph charles Liquor was arrested with

Bartone fur shipping weapons to Dum. Rep.

vol. a of the Bartone file covers from dead

Oct 1960 to June 1968 A Nou 34, 1960 cable reports that

Bartone is engaged in revoluonary actities on behalf ut the

Dom. Repa

He attempted to as allegally export one C-7y

arcratt ammunison, etc. Arrested. He was muolued with

mar Garcia; Tampa, fla in attempted exportation ot one B-25

type aircraft and large quantity at 8F-6 arcraft parts, Also

reportedly sualued with invasion of Cuba, from Domi Rep.

prearranged by Trujallo

vol. 3 of the Bartone file covers thepersod frum July 196110

sept 1965.

A CrOSS Ref

, date 1i may 1963, states that Bartone

vas associate or Herbert I. Morcisón , reportedly nuolved in Haitian

zuolutionary activites

OnSept 8, 1965, the Secret Service requested into on Bartone.

---

