# 180-10145-10366

## Page 1

180-10145-10366

Leste wiselman

761/75

DDO

SECRE

Carlos John wilson Hudson

50f+

File - From OsWala CARASNO OBLECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

O memo to Director" fros

From DOP

la Dec. 1863

FOIA DOC. $

385-736

5pp.

p5 3-"Assoclated press datelined 6 July 1959, Havana, carried

story about wisen wins sall he had begun a seven

day sunger strike. to protest hisarrest. and nadito

befod intravenously at Cuba's national.. Police

Herpital. Although police denied wilson was on a

hunger strike, a huspital intern sad that newas

sufferung from physical exhaustion broughton by hus

refusal to eat.....

Accordingto a 16 July 1959

Havona press report, wilson's wife, a chilean

named Eliana Bronfman, said wilson nach

recerued a law degrae. from Oxfurd university

and had Hught... in the Internatonel Brigad&

during the spand Gudl wer.

'"on 18. August 1959 Wilsun walkech intothe us.

Consulate, kingsten, Jamaica, and said he was a

journalist...who.nud ust been released after

54 days detenten. in Habana preson.....

on al August

195%

the les consulate.

in... Kingston issued wilson

a single... entry. non immigrant visa. He was

carryirg British.

in Havana.

Is nice * 19235%0 issuesce

In the name of John.

Wilsus, He wa attempting 10 get air passase io

miami in order to sell his 1t9599310 the miami

180 +10145-103640

---

## Page 2

=2-

inerald are then to abtain drew use from.

Chilean consulate to return home, (Uk or Chile.

set specified but apparently he reterned to uk)

@@ Classifred message - orig: Juhn ma whiten

Releasing officer:.. fe whatten by authorty.of

Richard Helms. POIA DOC # a06-83.

Gite 85657

28-NOU 63

stages. wisens Allegaten

"His story is.

baincy followed up.""

70: White Howe. Atnimr. mcGeorge Bundy

Dept of state Attni U Alexis Jobnen

FBI

From: cJA.

108.

6 cable 10 Dir from

29 Nou. 1963.

Co6L5

BA FOIA DOC# A33-94

I.p.

"Altho staten tracing John Wilseh aka waitsen

Hudsen with gAGuAR beleudon forst leturns foon

FBI eheck he likely. ba psychopath. Station

gathers.. he gave this impression cohen testufging

befure Eastland committee. in 59. we are.

therefore nut pursuing further except thru

JAGuaR for any info they heue on him."

1004033

---

## Page 3

-3=

SECRET

9 201 File Request

Frum WH/I/Chole

Dated 29 Oct1959

"Acquired spanish citizenship abunt 1936. At

present in Latin America.".

handwriten at buttam of page.-

"In contact with suspectal sowet Agents."

signod

Associate af Bert. set Sucherou.

Report frem

8. Aug 57. or 51.

Source

is of opinien that wilson is. very probably

an intelligence agent and that he is under directen

of sume servise.."

a01 vame check sheet

Reterences: Yes

Archives References: no

Applicant or Employee Referances: su.

memo for record, 6 Oct 1959. Subject "Carl John

wilsen Huelsun.".

SECRET

.Reports..thattthasunis.aspansshcitizon.of

British descent who at last repurt was in presen in

Havana, cuba, having been arrested with paul Hugher,

an American soldier of furtune actua in revoltery

intrigues in the Carobbean....

10.4000

---

## Page 4

-4=

SECRET

a- wilson maybe summarized as a person of.

intelligence, but so erratic as to be conürder sur

mentally unbalanced at times, He is a soldier

of fortune, having begun his career in July 1936

when he left onford to tight in saarn. He has

been accused of working fur the intelligence

services.. of several countries, and he himself

has claimed to have. acted on behalfuf different

maligence seruses. He has been consistently

anti- unstect states."

cable,...

19 Dec 59

To Dir from Hauena...

HAVA

3072

Ref. A. Dir 07261

B. HAUA 2296 (Sent Dir Only)

STATE

C. ODACID IEO FACM ASHW

In Ref B HAVA sepured RAmCHITTER in contact.

with.ane.Juhn.carlWilsen....

memoranaum of conversation - Participants: Carl J.

Wilsen Hudson of the wilsen. Press and Public

Relates Incerpurated, santago cubu anch

Richard.A. Ericson, Jr... Ist see-of Am. Embassy

in bandan.

..Date... April 2,196% lAm.Embässy.

subj: "Interest uf carl J. wolson Hudson is

politcal Intelligence."".

mr.wilsun called.on. mentarl)e

staled he had a children. Who were then in

santiago.

"Mr. wilson sald that he had

come to great trian eat as fall on busman

10.4014

---

## Page 5

- 5-

SEC

NEL

and had been here sime. He is planning, howeuer, to

return io santago within the next to weeks i

largely becaue he is unable to suppurs

himself here andy longer since the chilean Government

has refused permission fur the remittance of funds

he holds in santago. mr. Wilson gave his present

address. as.. 35 Craven Terrace, Lancaster Gate,

London, Wia, telephune.... PADdington.. 9az6.

comment:

"This is the second time wilson hes

approached me. to show... an interest un intelligence

matters. The forst time was shortly after trendent

Kennedy was assassinated, when he said that

haa been imprisoned in Havana by Castro in 1959.

He alleged that while in Hardras hewas in

prisen, meals for a fellow-prisuner, a formar

zambling czar in.. Havana with early associations

with the t Capone gang, hack been brought. to

the prison by a man wno identited himself

as "Ruby" anchwho bure a physical resemblance.

to the man being tried for oswald's murder.".

SECRELA

10-1022

---

