# 180-10145-10409

## Page 1

180-10145-10409

Russell August Langelle

Gengman

5-4-78

SECRETI

Robert Genzman and Harold

Leap interviewed Russell August

September 195 joined

mainly in SR9 of the Soviet

Russia

Division.

(at present this document would

probably be in his personnel.

file.)

11112524

Approximately:

knew that fange fifteen people

These included

John Maury (SE),

(SR9),.

( Chief

Frane tige! Tearse Kievalper,

SECRET

180-1015 10400

---

## Page 2

Genzman.

5-4-78

SECRET

(Reports an

Requirements); Pierre

de Silva (COS), and

someone at

the

Office of

Securiti

Langelle served as the decurity

Officer at the Moscow

from December: 1957 to September

1959, on addition, he was the

senor CIA officer there. The

CIA contingent in Moscow

consisted of

officers

---

## Page 3

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

who handled

orientation projects rather than

operations projects...

Langelle handled CIA

communications in Moscow. The

CIA

but

could

by means of

so that

the message was secret until

it was forwarded to C/A head-

quarters, where it was

on 1959 the Soviets declared

fangelle persona son grata as

a result of his into

vement with

P. 5. Papor. Langelle was the

con ten it, lost mil glad

intelligence. White making a

contact with Popor, Langelle

was detained by the KGB

nd was questioned for two

ind a half hours.

The KGR

attempted to recruit him, and

then released him. The State

SECRET

11112576 -

---

## Page 4

4.

Genzmain

5-4-78

SECRET

Department filed a formal protest.

but Langelle was told to leave

the soviet Inion within three

days. He left the foviet Inion

in early October 1959.

angelle first became aware

heard an a

conversation that

a Marine had contacted the

American consular office an

Moscow to renounce his citizenshie

He later heard that this individual

had changed his mind and was

returning. to the United states.

He does not recall the details

Te the seati pede in tee

11112577

Langelle characterized Gwald's

defection as a consular case to

he handled by consular officers,

rather than an intelligence case

involving intelligence officers,

who were shorthanded in Mosco

at that time.

He stated that

the few intelligence officers in

moscow at that time were

involved in specific operations,

and did not perform general

intelligence functions. He also

stated

that intelligence offecers

did not use

for intelligence

SECRET purposes, and "that

There were

---

## Page 5

5

Genzman

5-4-78

SECRET

in the consular

section.

Langelle stated that the

meletary intelligence pesole at lhe

mbassy probably would have been

contacled about Oswald's defection.

The snilitary o Dulacki (Marine),

Paul Adams (Nasy), John

Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman

( army.).

He did not know

whether Alexes Davison (Ravy)

was an intelligence officer or

whether Davison was involved

Isivald left the sorret Inion,

it to spiran de migration:

State Department, the

and Naturalization fervice, an

the FBI.

11112578

When Langelle left

Moscow in 1959, Winters was

the senor CIA officer there,

Mahoney and Leberman were still

there,

there, and Washer ta may be

replacement as

Security

Opficer was John Abidians

Tabidian

was later replaced by Vugh

Montgomery, who was Winter s

successor

sentor CIA officer.

---

## Page 6

6

SSORET

Gangman

5-4-78

1 was later replaced bu

C/A officers in Moscoo arca

1962 included

and possibly

at headquarters the chief.

of the Soviet Russia Division

followed by

Howard Osborne and then

David C. Murphy.

Weth regard to American

journalists in Mosçow, Langelle

had no contacts with R. G.

Korengoldo or alone Morby,

ded not know a. d. Goldberg,

nd was contacted by Priscilla

Johnson for an interview after

he was declared persona son

grata.

When LangellEr

11112579

returned to the

United states, he continued working

He resumed

his C/A duties on a part-time basis

in 1961. He dealt with communications

between Washington and Moscour.

In September 176) he resumed his CIA duties

on a full-time basis at headquarters. He

worked mainly in the forret Russia

Dursion, External Operations; Africa and

Europe.. At present he is still with the

CIA

but he plans to retire soon.)

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Sangelle.

L'angelo was born on

October? 922

its social security number i

I'e is married, wrth three children

Sangelle

Ba joined the CIA

i worked mainly ne son, s

Misiao Division. An November / 955 he

ivorited

probably

Le in tie

al tinsel

fita.)

/ Approumalety

fifteen people kreco that

in 1955. TRese included foxn Marry

(SR9)

(Chieft of Operations), George

Kisevalper (sp), Frank Ferry.

far

quindechis

- Ed Galloway, Leonard

OMe Coy (Reports and Regurement),

Pierre de dilera 65051

i and

someone at the

office of decurity. SECRET 11112080

1542

---

## Page 8

SECRET

Langelle handled

C)A communicationa

Ma SoLoscow. TRe CIA

But

Icould!

by means

so that the

massage was secret until it wa

cowarded to CIA Headquarters fo

11112581

SECRET

---

## Page 9

deliberately tough on C/A personnel bor

decurity breaches

an Seplenter

1255 a e repete Vienna, e eriten

hos beng was

a strict decrity apficard the ClA

Chef of Station scatte in Vienna

Ite servedas the searsity

Langelo served as the security

officer at the Moscow

prom

December to to deptembr1959.

de addition, he was the senor ClA

Fficer there, with

CIA officist working

nd avrormatoly

'insent]

Langelle

cho handlad orientation

projects rathes than operationo grgects.

SECRET

11112502

An 1959 #19no the Soviets declara

l'Angeli persona non grata as a result

Rio involverent with P.S. Popor.

L'ange

'angeli con 1 cose sus

Soviet military intelligence. elet

hoool bee

taxting

---

## Page 10

3

SECRET

making a contact weth topor,.

Langelle was detained by the KGB

The State Department

filed a formal protest, out fangelle

was forced to bave the soviet Inis

within three days..

Langable first became aware

I See Harvey Orwald when he heard

in conversation that a fame parise

Rad contacted the american consular

Ffice in Moscow to renounce his

citizenship- He later heard that

this indioidual dad changed his

mind and was returning to the

United states- He does not recall

the details of these conversations;

but he believes they took plans

in the United Slates. 11112583

Langelle characterized

Oswald's

defection as a consular case to be

handled by consular officers, rather

time. He stated that the few

intelligence officers in Moscour at that

SECRET time were involved in specific

operations, and did not hant te perform

general intelligénce functions. Ne

id not mies

---

## Page 11

and that there arze

the consular section.

SECRET

left the soviet Union, was the

rigonsifility of the State Department,

the Immigration and Naturalization

service, and the FBI:

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959.

Winters was the senior CIA officer there.

Mahoney and Leberman were still there,

and Washenks may still have been there.

Langelle's replacement as

Security

Officer was John Abidian,

abedian cras

Catered replaced

ner's at sthe successor

Montgomery, who

EU ARACOR

- was later

replaced by Paul Bar

the first officially designaled Chif

of station in Moscow.

Other C)A

officers in Mosco circa 1962 included

and

possibly

Military intelligence

personal

i Max cow incladed.

at adams

At headquarters, the

ches o the

Soviet Ruscia Division eas. John

and than David E..

SECRET

11112584

---

## Page 12

6

SECRETI

When fangelle returned to the

United states, Racontinued working

Teresumed his CIA

duties on a partitime bisis in 196). He dealt

with communications belween Woshington and Moscow

In September 196) he resumed his CHA duties

on a full-time buses at Headquarters.

He worked mainly in the sovietkuasia

Division, External Operations, africa

and Europe. Here present.

at present

he is still with the CHA

but he

plans to retire soon.

11112585

SECRET

---

## Page 13

sangelle

Russell August 10 negeti

SECRET

Genzmar

5-4-78

ELA

Nor.95

10-7-22

m

3.ch

Sept 50

SRDu. (SR9)

ganguage, operétimal tmel.

expesience, rolios., stabil.

- Sed. Off-

Veenna

Moscous -Dee:57

Seet 59

Mar .8056

Veensia

lept, 56

(SR9 -internalops

ghlos.componest

i conplest

sscers en

teresion

firit C0S Feul Girfter

-SE Johin Mowsy

SR9

C2.ofQps

Gesange sirofaller (sp.) KescBaltes

Fonat tinety

Frank Jeiry

Gack qeindae

Ed Galloway.

Reporto i Re quarcmente

Lamard Me loy.

COS Puerre de silira

office of fccurity

11112586

galiscou

officers

SEGREX

---

## Page 14

Langelles

SEGMEL,

Ganzman

5-4÷78

abidián

replaced

ty gugh...

Montgonery:

ifficer

George P.

-1 Wintert, Mahoneg, Nenaftes

Steve Washenko (Econ. Officer)

-orientation

rather than operations

left in 59

gohn @bidion

dec. Officen

took over

responsibilitics

Gborge P. Winters

Washenko - mayse stull there

Mahoney + seberma

PNG - agency paration

penetration.or@Rtl-mil.ixkli

Pytors@apopor.agent

Il was case off.

case: compromesed

state protested

PNG

Beck Is deS

11112587

fan 60

SEBRES

+ agency functions

Reames Cit matteme 6, Immer e et te line brait

---

## Page 15

sangelle

хове

SESHER

Gonzman

5-4-78

eut out - Brit: wife

SR9 sept. 61-

moved back to dIA

on pull-time basis Jgst.6)

(00458 -beft 59)

officer.

mahony

Communicat - Mos to HQ

SR9 Jack Maury

Winters remaned

George

CHO.

i conversations a consular officer sud Marine.

renounced citizenship.

coalfe ina

consular off. would bring it to your attention

Wisscalper-in Bestin, handled Popor while

in E. Baklint Vienna:

- handled Penkosky

- maybe Rosenko.

11112588

SEGRET

---

## Page 16

1.,.

Sangelle.

Genzmian

5-4-18

ipe donsulan section

mil. intell.

Pallo Adams Vau.

Ted Hollman am

Musion

Dulacki Mar.

would have been contacted

Korenged - no contacts

Johnson-aoked for intererei after his PNG

Mosby - no contacts

Goldberg- didn't ferow

Davison - doesn't know if agency

not involved in Pent to his knolcaje

personnel could not be used for intel. without

prior approval

provocationo.

starmotone

11112589

Naval eviater

atongi - 53-55

SECRET

---

## Page 17

: Langalle

LAngeli

SELES

Gongmar

5-4-78

62

Hugh Montgonery (senior)

Paul Garbler (COSireplaced Matgomene)

No commo sorive register coith mil. + Moscow

63- SR , Chief of External: Opa.

africa + eur.

Moscow.

513: - goscow

David E. Murply - Chief of SR Die.

60: 64-65

Cos in Berlin during

Popor operation while

L'Q in Moscow

them Maurg

pollared by Howard Osborne

murphy

11112530

SECRET

---

## Page 18

5

SECRETI

He believed that the militar

1 intelligen

pegele at the Embassy would have been

contacted about Cowald's defection.

he milet bell ring,

included

Dulachi (Marines), Paul

Minson

avy and Ted if man (army)

did not know p

alexis Davison (Nawy

talligents teen the ten hoos by case, on whether

With regard to American

journalists in moscow, fangelle

had no contact with R. 6. Forengold

or alive Morby, did not know

g and was contacted

ly Priscilla

expation for an interview after

he was declared persond non

grata.

SECRET

11112591

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Winters

100.61

Langene

Mahoney

Rt.l

-Berße lu

30-61 : 11. <4

Partlar -Viensr MileCt: 23180

/ riFebi62 = 200p.63 montgonery-

osborne 70 fean

356-4650

FiDCOS

26gune 62-119cr.62

1 Gnl 63, 3/Qug 65

annual leave til May

iigan 63, 18 gan 66 Jasiry Prekn

HQ 2p.m

Maxy 12

C/SR

gokn. Maury

1Đéc 54-298al82

3704 Farr Qve,

Furfiarss

Moward f. Ooborie

3ojul<2 158ept.63 alty : John Debelus

948-6721

David @. Murphy

1537 Foreat

168ept63-10Ma: Nilla dane, Phedean

355-7523

11112592

SEGRET

---

