# 180-10144-10225

## Page 1

180-10144-10225

F/dr 53

Doc.

000781

TRANSITION

The above information

was available to the station

prior to the asso

sination

of John Kennedy. The HSCA

has attemsted to determine

when the available infor

mation was linked. to

hee Harvey Gwald. The

HSCA has also attempted

to determine whether all

of the fintercepted telephone

IN FACt

callo were tos conrected

with Oswald, on inolver

oswald.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10144-10225

---

## Page 2

000782

B. INfo AvAilAblE from the

WIRETAPS) thAt WERE

connebted with, or involved,

Les HArvEy OswAld

There was available

to the Mes nine fintercepte

telephone conversations

that may have dedlt

with Oswald. The conver

sationo are summaried

below for easy referen

In the following discussi

the conversations will he

---

## Page 3

000783

DATE

9/27/63

9/27/63

9/27/63

9/27/43

9/27/63

9/28163

refered to by date and

time of accurance

TImE

10:30

10:37

1:25

4:05

4:26

11:51

SummAry

MAN CAlls SovIet MilitAs

AttachE RE: A visA foR

OdEssA. (SpANish)

mAN CAlls SovIEt

CONSUlATE RE VISA fOR

OdESSA.

(SpANish)

MaN calls the Soviet

ConsulAtE And Asks

for the Consul

(SAtUR SpANish).

SilviA DurAN CAllS.

the SOvIET CoNsulAtE

(spANish)

Soviet CoNsulAtE

CAllS SilViA DUCANER.

DurAN cAlls Soviet

ConsulatE Aud puts

7: MAN ow The phon

knamich

---

## Page 4

000784

4

10/1/63

10/1/63

10/3/63

10:31

mAN CAlls Soviet

MilitaRy Attache...

(RUSSIAN)

10:45

MAN cAlls Soviet

Consulate identifya

himself As Les

OswAld. (RUSSiAN)

?

MAN Calls the

Soviet militari

Attache. (SpANish

+ English.)

After the assassinati

the CIA Mcs passed copier

Of that seven of these

Co

iversations to the

Regal Attache. (Memorande

to Clark Anderson from

Minston Scott, 11/27/63, @ 7

---

## Page 5

000785

5

attatchments, CIA *Nos.

506-514.) The 9/27, 10:30 call

and the 9/27, 1:25 call are

not included in this

document. (I81D.) The

Cover memorandum says:

"Attatched are photostatic

cadies at transcripts ab

posites pestich at in

this case.

(IVid, p. 1, CIA No. 506)

At the botton of

It has not

been determined why the

---

## Page 6

000786

9/27, 10:30 and 1:25 calls were

not included in this mere.

While it is possible that

the 1:25 call could be the

Got i

melated, it is unlikel,

that the same determina.

too would afply to the

10:30 call in light of the

fact that the 's call

is included in the memo.

at the bottom of

each altatchment page the

CIA mes provided a summar

of the conversations. the

---

## Page 7

000787

station only questioned

the pertinence of one of

the seven calls presented

in the memorandum. The

summaryof the 10/3. call

says:

Kh, the contest of the

in broken panich and

Russian which he

(Ibid. p. 9, (lA No 574.)

A judgment that this

call did not pertain to.

---

## Page 8

hee Harvey Dawald could be

base dow the facts that

I the caller spoke broken.

spanish; 2) The caller did

not have the number of.

the Consulate; s) The caller

did not know they issued

visas at the consulate; and

4) the caller states, the is

seeking a viss, not that

he is checking ow an

application already made.

In light of there.

The maprity of the evidence

---

## Page 9

00089

9

indicates that hee Harvey

Oswald could not speak

Spanish. (Marren Commissio

Testimony of Pamela Mumford,

5/19/64,

VI1, P. B ; Man

hen. Commistion

Testimony of Evariato

Rodriguez, 1/21/64, Vol. 11, p. 34!

ssion Exhibit 2120, p.7.j

Commission Etheft 2121, p. 54:

CE. Delgado statement.)

In light of Delgado's

assertions it is possible

that Oswald had at

bast a limited knowledge

---

## Page 10

00u790

of spanish. Oft should

He nated that the 10/3

transcripto indicates

that the caller spoke

in broken Rust Spanish

¡ICA franscrijet from

Russian Embassy, 103/63,

(/A No. 514) The factob

that this conversation was

in spanish, is not enough

by itself to rule out

the possibility that sit

mate the plane call

was Oswald callin

This is especially tree in

---

## Page 11

000

1791

11

light of the fact Delga -

dos allegations and the

fact that The 4/27, 10:30,

10:37, and 1:25 calls tire

in spanish. Of it is one

Ot NOT

'assumed that Oswald

could not speak any

Spanish whatsoever then

only two possible conclu

sions about the first

three calls on 9/27/63

are posable: either,s

1) These calls do not

isolae pertain to Oswald,

---

## Page 12

EN

V

NOTE: REcheck 9/26

000792

TrANscRipts.

12.

or z) They do pertain

to Oswald but were

made by somone

other than hee Harvey

Oswald. This question

will be addressed in

a more detailed fashion

in subsequent sections

There an he for these calls

are more pertinent to

questions about Oswalds

activities and associates

than to the substance of

the information available

---

## Page 13

000793

13

to the CIA station prior

to the assassination.

Oswald had the

phone numbers of the

Soviet Consulate and the

soviet military attache

in his notebook. (CE 2121,

p. 112.) It can not be stetermine

whe that there numbers

were entered sto the

notebook Inlightof

the fact that Oswald

had precionaly called

the Consulate it is likely

---

## Page 14

0 00

7 9 4

that he had the number

prior to October 3nd

It is also clean that

Oswald knew that

the Consulate was

responsible for sasuin

visas in high tof his

prior dealings with

the Soviet and Cuban

consulates. In light of

these factors tet is

probable that the

10/3 conversation dial

not pertain to oswald.

---

## Page 15

000795

15

The 1011, 10:45 call is

clearly pertinant becaus

of the the caller identifies

himself as de Oswald".

The 10:31 conversation is

probably pertinent due

to the similarity with

the 10/1, 10:45 call and

the marginal notations

about the quality of the

Russian spoken. the 9/28,

11:51 call is probably

Oswald, again due to

the marginal notations

---

## Page 16

000796

16

and the involvement.

of Silvia Duran. Durane

calls an 9/27 cleanly

pertainetto Oswald

due to the substantive

information ab discussed

The above listed calls

contain the substance

Of the information

avalable to the CIA MeS.

prior to the assassinats

The first three calls on

9/21/63 and the oneon

10/3/63 and ittle of

Indeed UswAld

---

## Page 17

00077}

substance to these

calls

- •**•*=*-

---

## Page 18

000798

Harvey

HSCA staff researchers

reviewed the transcripts

from the

wiretaps)

on the soviet Embassy. The

chonological production

file is on microfilm.

(Classified Staff Summary

of Review of CIA Documents,

3/9/78, CIA Nos. 315-338)

ondaddition to.

the Echions logical file,.

numerous copies of the

transcripts that pertain

---

## Page 19

000799

to dawald were found

throughout the CIA's files

On hee Harvey Aswalal

---

## Page 20

000800

It is obvious that

the MaS linked the 10/1, 10:45

call to hee Harvey Oswald

because Oswald identified

hiinself in the call and the

nes reported it on 10/8/3.

(CIA dre

anscriet. from

Russian Embass, 101/63,

CIA No. ; Cable from M

to the Director, 10/8/c3 Mexi

6453, CIA No. ) This trans.

cript the translator nort

the words rotation:

"The sAmE pErSON who poued

A day orso Ago Add spoke

---

## Page 21

000801

IN GrokEN RuSSiAN. "

In this coNvErsAtioN

(Etrost CIA TrANscript from

RUSSIAN EmbASSy, 10/1/63, CIA

No.

iB ASCA Executive

SESSION TEstimONy of

4/12/78, p. J

In this coNversAtion Oswald

mentions that he spoke with

The PrEVIOUS

the Soviet CONsul ONYSAturday.

---

