# 180-10142-10430

## Page 1

180-10142-10430

1:4

LOUIS STONES, OH

¿'RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

WALTER E- FAUNTROY, D.C.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHRISTONHER I. DODD, CONN.

MAROLO E, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA

i MUELL

NE, OHIO

STEWART B. MCMINNER, CONPE.

CHARLES THONE, NEO*.

MAROLD S, SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.5. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

11 August 1978

SECRET

Response

ridd

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

20505

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In connection with this Cormittee's investigation into the circum

stances surrounding the death of President John F. Kennedy, we respectfully

request access to Volume One of the Cuban Mugbooks reviewed by-AMMUG/ at

his home on 9 April 1971. AMMUG/l's case officer,

Cos/liami was present when AMul reviewed this musbook. This revien

is reported in a CIA Dispatch dated 13 April 1971. The dispatch is numbered

UFAA-2925.

We also respectfully request that the personnel files fox l

Taka

for the period 1959 to 1964, be made available

for review by HSCA staff members.

was a CIA case officer who

worked on the Bay of Pigs project.

We would also appreciate it if you

would makel

Tavailable for an interview by HSCA staff members.

It is our understanding that he is presently employed by your Agency and

is located in the Washington metropolitan area.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

MAny Candwell

foR G. Robert Blakey

GRB : dlh

(Typed at CIA-8/11/78)

3003840

Acelliod by 6 451 S

Exempt from general

declassificallos.schedulo ol.E.O, llerg

exomplion achedule 56 (1). 841. 13)

Auronatically docicaslice 07

SECRET*

10142-10430

---

