# 180-10145-10287

## Page 1

180-10145-10287

Г0:

Mr. Michael Goldstien

Select Cormittee on

Assassination

House of Representatives

3381 House Annex # 2

2nd & D Straet. 5.H

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

B0x54

Falder

#ZB

TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT

HSIA

FROM:

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Room 7 D 35

Washington, D.C. 20505

26 -J:n73

9

INFORMATION

CONTROL NUMBER

DOC.

DATE

ACTION

RETENTION

SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred)

LOAN

CLASS.

Motes of lolf and foldsmith (SCA request (loif) 25 Jun 73

0001732 -0001781

SECKT

Information on 201 files HSCA reguest (dolf

0001762 - 0001797._

_25 Jun 79

SECRET

THIS COPY IS NOI

FOR RELEASE.

arnt

SPPRSUED FOR BALDUSE 1003

OR A STORIONE CONGA POOREM

19570

IGNATURE (acknowledgine

receipt

of above documents)

ATE OF

RECEIPT:

3876 3772B

RECEIPT

RETURN TO

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

I - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK

10145-10787

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Bufeng. 2/14/18

sell Anally. Chief of deferstion sure Staff

Who can 201> trek cede.

lave offer - its dis judgement wired deterse whetes of

not oper a 201.

→ the tape of sajo. core i, it would go uto index

Here the certas erterd

2) High- evel Corms sist officials

He the some orate bike as nus hit

, It II

He should it a doe Witti see wily spit perse is ast

There should be a reference is ist file to downent is and file it

Here is the.

6001712

SECRET

PACE

COPY

NO.

- 02

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Central

Core Stef

An itine not fuses o

geneal sule, hales

hat Ms. wild save t

Proberty would is

og.s

Wild lI some mean would, de a

mitte gost. agesy a fore mizly,

35-prey Lend. Sali

ix co-old. Of a project is which sold the CIAs,

te in tHese net is wald we aired It is

Hastles-

DeR- affece of Cetral

nature au maiitained dere.

of steps, things of intellegence

Photos of pureet plane Deser

enote of tests a rose gope

PiL: juserived i Listed - refer to conmuscations wheed ale

SECRET

0001744

FACT

3

CO2E

110.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

This has always been tile - In earlie tones, it may hase dex stutes

Ау мне fuce persors.

is cramuniction my, in tie, the doingraded; may never it destroyed.

is it possible, i cortest of a I tireet, in tall of an dypottu al that sa

would not ise correlled i. A 201

, It the concurable tat

таку does. could waist in the

inst he compeled tits a 201 if tau

201

Pseudo: false nesse

hold to it and

sillie it has give awy mit, secrets i tea defects, 2201dle

would not scally sal bese olded - It might he a mill, shatter.

In rally 60s, tise Was An ittlet te defetters.

Dan's lypo Arred A ZERIFLE:

544 A four: requeet to jult doe. Ints stutter

? 1897.

In of. suck as ZRRIFLs dos

Lato

systen except

міт

suedly Til -might mere

yuen handling case.

24

"Sleeper agent tupo: ts

2023 sleepers t lor. Lear

went neally wall to o I see I le say sue

Sion Hates. - fom ADD to EI staff.

held a 201 dopered is stelf?

competing

of suscy o. been the to kee back of sleeper

It from reliable sonce atating

SECRET

0001745

21GD

iSPY

---

## Page 5

SECRET

His has always been the - In lair tones, it mey cheer deer sistited

Tish camuniction may, in tire, the downgrades; may neves it destroyed.

is it possible, in cortest of a cI threat, in tall of an dyette al that sap.

would not ise comples i. 2 201 1

it is conceable that

maxy does. Old wist in the

inst he compeled it a 201 if these

doest appear to de a 11200

Pseudo: false nanse

• о соткинсайом

lypts: Word to it.

: Alla

у algiape, yollowed y group of lettes

you cannot assig a cryptoryn

asilie ists shed gives away met, secrets i tea defects; a 201 le

would not sell ally wave Bie ofered - It sight or a mile. maid.

Istal may have ind intolets in defletor

In dally bo's, these was an interest in defectors

Dan's depo Ared In ZERIFLE:

574 A your: requeet to jut dore. ints

? 1891

Is of. SUCh As ZRRIFLE

Lato sister except.

yuck handling case.

'Sleeper agent" chups: ts

• Su

2013 sleepers in lorr. Сска

doeset acarly have to now a it since it is sing sus

fie Agues. - fom ASP to II Staff-

would a 201 te opered or sllfe?

competing '

of suesecy Mr. Even atle to keep hack of sleeper

that sleeper he putting tafo.

SECRET

0001745

PAGE

COPT

NO,

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Plass would take place his strall room is It staly:

Firm must ve signed any and — would

he put its op. file te the sly.

i tille would is weld ot

o at action deck.

Problers: (om-444e0ts

Equipme

HIBITEU

op. files can genuely isinged nerdig to gilies.

se it presible for somesse to have tott a a file? Has Zesoul tite? Yes

LPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

6001746

"ГОНЕТ

---

## Page 7

Records Adurinitration → heho diffe dircitats net up

- Burce Johnion

records its

I George Frattas

210 =

defunt designati....

fo purt. 1. In

Service.

Stall. ut

Lando

Ado recordo

ODA

PRODUCTIEN

ISAS

PROIBITED

(RA7 - -

ISS

1D0 har a

fling ys unte tell

Any.... Xs can cill upon

RA to gire

astistance.

Bt. 80.. Can... abu design it

piccomed

RA': lagul

guideline.

is.

informed. of

wirk

Day trat

decenticliced.

PRONUBI E

otte

filing syd

of file is

ISs central sys. in alo heatf

indiv di division Cier ered, sputeran.

= for itta of Mecond valere

ferich material might nel ge.

inte

central. file.

ie special Correspondence.

6001747

FACE

COPY

iO +

---

## Page 8

Prescibel a Linitel"

info

- highly semitive info

certain indivi

I senior stff office

Pel desiguetion - dee.

cover. agen!.

hatle territory. mislecive

designation.

be uncommons!

HYPEROUS

thir

would not

of this

Kind

10 0 15 yu ago, el rupee remitive

spections, the was retively conson.

x Pai for smetling to he so semitic

that

Cat stal he gome one accultion

many you...."i.

now catehing.. up

ple names in centred index

pass to the rific le

air cutta.

Pre file is halingen

- last, des happe

to.

..Locate.

Could open 20r file clo

firing indication

Johason,

This, according

would to in outle.

0001740

SEGRET

2 0: 20

---

## Page 9

Cryptonym

SECRETI

wiel!

120.

201- need for a continuing

to... open. a.. file.

file.

interes

-pplian

ROBESTION

..counterin

i did wet bret gene

whi matter of dap.

... eccurate.

ie..ea....

...American...

Jivin in Germany whe il jiving inf

to Fussians.

To locate where documento were

filed peier. to

being

placed in

document

st

trad sys unde

He is actually

sleepei

PAL...

no 201 filte

spast aigned to him,

that his

It is possi

zon case fice world

prevent open fa

dor file #.

sare regitin exit tis,

Kus: pos

agency wring. Jame

*TORET,

G601749

PAOD

t:2!

---

## Page 10

JEGRET

Graphics index in will nut caintain

routine pasture towns a groun

201 fits.

pictites.

will not medy countain

See

next

jage

centrelin

There is

Guinelated

windle,

пр/в

not centain, but

dia jay.

he retard for rend papers.

ito wouch not

for ha file not to contain

crypt.

deepover-there repl die have au's

in their the whe

201's are not opened in pedange

But Barton

Files after

their

101

There

...

REPRODUCTION

working fits PROMISES.

1 201 fice

-ocal office

Lacin

subect file -particufarget.

SECRET

6001750

2103

C*0: 20.

o?

---

## Page 11

inuolued

Project files

SECRET

wil

for ever prayed tate by

Agency, in

even

proed run

another

(ie- DOD.)

ave stall-

civer.

creation of

in setting iup....

= unles you slan to do

auch to deep cover program a

exist,

There is a central listing f

cryptonyes. From this list

tue wome, then go to 201 file

you ged.

1.

there is one,

still personnel

f..

201...

PRUTIBITED

will

include

There.

is

tree name,

filing sys

by

poredony, crypt,

t 20i

SECRET

0001751

10 0 22

---

## Page 12

SECRET

There i

assel filing

projecs"

incilued. in.

stell office or

indicating whet opection

Contini

wati

col.

Cave Mies

coul 083805100

i controlled by cit

agent passet may be the sets.

is not decly

agend bes, a."'

-25-

always controlen

provila. finfe

asset Map someone whe

my provid

a device er

info.

Name ck. proces-procedure. to learn whet

i known. about

- Involve a cli

files

20d files a pusedly

N'ana

opening

True..

id

requence

an away.

done

it

may be tend out thor, it

de

wartied

cryptonyan

SECRET

S001752

11 ca

---

## Page 13

SECRET

There is a controlined filig

true came, piverdingn,

- Called

true

notoxi

L Sec.

pbing... sys

TREPRODICTION

ву

+ 20i tt.

duel

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001" vo

EGRET

1 on ite

---

## Page 14

SECRET.

Fretar

201

subject- countries, project

il intolved.

aie for all preyed that sin

in

Finance

REPRODICTION

* Crypt file

Cormonication - Ebbchous file in

all; microfitmed.

security - security file; under pavelope

person file on splica daju, aughen.

agent 2 fils in flin security

Overt.

Covert

biog eti, 15-14

лес.

inustigetion... as sigmect,

anything that he dos

Wen he's sena

files list i

Milies- we

DEDpANICTION

file

they can let it

psych profita

training i agent, to see, in

6661754

2122

3 1:2

---

## Page 15

ECRET

Betay Hidly

CIA Buefing-January 26,1978

Keeords Adsin. Branch -

REPRODUOTIA

ДẠA

PROHIBITED

da. ДДА

Дпр. sures. Staff-baly DDO.

ISAS - Lufo. Septers Analysis Staff

Recode Clor: Brased

Can te weed for any lel aft any Dunson, seet anyore car

weign. they our systers, prouding they inform RAs so that they

can moster compliance.

Tamely Tearls Lalletion":

Highly serities empattinente refo. tends t de dierted

from centrat

PROHIBITE

sudetes for harding s maintalsig seeset but not

for completing

biệt

6001755

SEGRET

2A23

COPT

110.

or

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-p.2

Hen did systen

start?

stene in l0's

Sleeper hypo: Opration could have been so state as ts

se wept ott. of filing, ndering.

syrtem, parteuladly. 12.15

years aдo..

May chave ten,

wen reid zor?

fist offices; may shot dave

201 *'s : asugreep

were arsigned dy KID 19.-5 s. 8

Hills were not diugnated Til bet were "restreted" to confixed

juredictions

Cryptoryn.augnment:part of ISS-Central Lop/rt = rypte Reference

steff

"Seeper" would have to chave a retony for op. purpres. Hould

test cryptony w/201#→:: h0 name, not ix STAR system

acia fu spean, a 20 fele:

Some seace of entrus iterest" either a a potential solde, agent.

KGB official - car ise eider ta sistined or counte-intell. pusses

Gould is otter to cons

Could be quered in reints

to some slepected K6B person

201 could te opered in a matte of tis, days or wires if somese

recid info. of segrease on part person

"Files costent sting" supplemeital listing for STAR syrtem

Untract systen of STAR: could lead pris rederices to a part

document

SEGRET

0c01066

TAGS

1024

WO.

---

## Page 17

. p. 3

Ack thizz

for dotels.

SECRET

Untral Souree Register

Interage Source Reguter: in effect probably sie deg. of CIA

Lof Satelligese Areiss) - doest melude regular personnel. - sely

ascits -would the cased on the manes-would it costers sensitir soldes

201 yus would not. success

wasted, it may sate it

a plotograph. Ever if photo.

Jeet may be x.ref. to a

spee dick.

ppion

trades collector n. DOI

Indu dicke will colect pestos of persons of interest

Contains photos of terair, atte. Not particularly interced in gie pe, te,

Testing of assets- would he mautaised is a workery mannes at

separate desks.

DO would the aly place whee there would te cells to the type.

of Meeting

By large, no 201 estee

rue, waller there was is ip. tattuet

purr. to esplyned

Opening doce of 201 Ve

is wild costain rfs. to elearasce paper (wheed

would macatience in see. Office)

ile exxwerted i would

Emp. Made deep lover → Staff Agent - is feles woul shappear ader

his pered oryin.

Doit open 201'3 or prudonyms, wet would sper one s eryptonymes.

000175?

ECRET

P1C3

0.71

---

## Page 18

- p.4

Caly 1 copy.of a 201 fele; may it a working fuld copy

subjeet files.

Proct files

See trigg

A Admiaistration

B. Support.

l. Production

201 would chave ufo. or aest involved is profet; prect files fo

is re operation trelf.

Operatical Details

Central diet of cryptoryne where they're registaed - you can

match the cryp with the true name. He more serittive the

asset He operation → the more deflecte

it will the to get is tave name.

Bard file: Offerial

Soft file: wells

fue its working pes- anything of erd value is

soft file would be

Sielicted in hard file

"Project files: Whese are approval, decision-making secods filed?

enters when worked; squio's name; pe of work dose salution.

Does not costa spere spectors in whet mployee it water?

0001/50

SECRET

T103

-0 2

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Employees

4. lase offers- intellegeace officers

coatect employees.

ox tay can get weful seneces, includeg

Source: soce of uformation

And. begg

he deer for te get a file.

Mane ceck (tae) prose welder deck of followrng

STAR brace

Travel files

Alo do mare Chels

Legater AM| LASA Mame trace .

Длех ck hit:

0001759

SECRET

18

---

## Page 20

SECRET

-- p.b

leorge tratas

Julyed Files: countries

REL

. marstalk files on ant operation

reginatiag in arotter ageny

agent.

20/

Office of Security

" of tenance:

It staff. night have info.

nance: atgs, vouchers: recepts; will have a cryptonym file

roguties: suppo-out, elter, ette. necesat run operations

Communications: Cares, telegrapis..

Mantala a chrono. fle

castles are. lazed

suirty: Sereity

Started to lessinate

dualifiling@mid-cos

daista.

us- or microfelix

ниты, date, station.

inder passed oryin if an agent

- each with the same t

Overt-tree name lovest-paudrys- bited in water

Would an ageat over sperate wader a preday's

(vest)

If it has pedosyn → 'le is in file

л name: hog. data, revelto of ekgid. cheet, secrety

voletions i assigamests

(covet)

Pseudony: Coxter eluything the pluse ded list where

SEGRET VUI:CO

ot

---

## Page 21

p. 7.

SECRET

he worked, what is did, ite!

I an agent, it would have a POA for wack project the agent

was sivoled in.

I ete else it it are adi eugeneto.

PROMID

Medles: Medical hestoric on all staffecs; on agests if they cas get It

Psych slogial profiles

training: Freia gents, gre, sees, offees

Tus all tracking ceates

Office of Deta Presag: Put log ter perrare wed ity computers

TED

ADO that clatral mael wack X-rife. toe nanc, cryptoryns,

pseudony 201 microes.

6001761

'ECRET

of

---

