# 180-10140-10267

## Page 1

180-10140-10267 g

"Cotino Graini didnt

sarnar:2.05a10.59.c9ma

teen.., treadlin.

anti disarik, Chrio.

i tood, Chen.

: 9 d. 72.9.892.

Mirero, Linds, 11.

Sals: committee on dise:

JFK BoRs

For 1 40

Hem #2

157;

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

as penitened.

"д.

Mz. Pütrick Carpentier

CElas: 05 the Tarisiative Counse?

conceal Inceiligence agency

washington, D. C.

Dear i. Carpertica:

In connection with its investigation into the outcut-

stances surrounding

the death or President Kerreal: the Selece

contites on Assassinations requests access to a

files ana

file references pertaining to the folioning indiriduais:

Edvard fay Epstein

2) Narvin Kantos

1) Parianadpastera

In addition, please provide the Committa: ith access to

the following information:

5)

with the CIA).

6)

The file that was prepaced by the ciderence to

E. Howard Hunt's alleged fatergate-nolaged activitie.

The Committce previously requested access to ali cm fates

pertaining to E. Hovaid bunt in its lotter to mot o. dodder? i.

19?5.

Forever,

roger Gabrielson, of your stati

was requested

thật the particular requests identifica above, be aut it mama.

The committce would aiso appacciate a rosperse faer sha

Si segang the solemen wante

180-10140-10267

---

## Page 2

-trick Carpentier

-13 5, 1978

Lige

2

Jab to do It she cIa's written staterent replyingie the Committee's

request or Fabruary 21, 1975 forjan

criteria

that goreined the oneniac Of i 202 file

ing the years 1950-64 was not resporat: 5o

our incuitt

because the CiA's vition statenent ::

not foous on tre

relevant time Ferioc.

accordingly, i i tenoring ous

EQUeSt Of FebIarY, 22, 1973.

Er the crane tres theze

vere no criteria governing the opening da such tales

during that periodi the Committee tou

traresiabea

written statement indicating trot this

are cass.

8) .

Cil dosunent 6563-016 indicates that 1ane maa 20020%=

ments transhould be in see Hanvey Contre dia 202e

but wich are missing fron the file.

thennote:

tais

documant also indicates that there shout zele dachare

iisting of these documents attached as

1563-310, but no such Losing appears ta cau 8

Select Conmittes on assassinations rag-ats traw the

cIA provide a listing of such documerte

ninetles a

witten explanation of were those decurines are 10-

cated ard

why they do not appear in a:

12d/e 202

Pursuant to my letter of secarber 27, 2477:

= would Like

to note that the decament referred to :~

this parag-ega

is a classified document.

Tites having eviewed bötr the document.

contained ta

the cla's files on priscilla Johnson unbean and tha

materials

that were inaesendently made

under the Privacy Pot, it is apparent Sace End fites

which were made

availaoie to the Committee tan tor in-

cLude HEINGUAL materials...As the Connaised bes

aiready requested all information contained ta vous

files on the individuals who ara the suajacos de ou=

reguests, please

revier the files that

viously made available do us for the purpose 05 ersta

ing that all of the infonnation pertaining to the

individuals involvea has, in fast, beer

do XIinally, the Committee vould like in interring din Feroche

Soviet Ruesion

the CIn's?

Stationfor the period 1953 thro.

Station o= that period.

Tha Committee ragueste

• serio

---

## Page 3

Patrick Carpentier

April

5, 1978

Dage 3

either make these persons availabie for our cus.

or provide their last krom address

so that te c..

directly.

Thank y0u for your continuing cooperatio..

sincerely,

mirror tren

G. Robert Slure

chief Counsel man birector:

GRE : bwa

---

