# 180-10142-10241

## Page 1

180-10142-10241

23ox 23

FOLDER 24

#29

DI NOT HERODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

ISC09303, P6 787924625 1949, SOUS)

DRAFT - MDC - 11/7/78

page

2

largest faction and had organized delegations in Miami, New

York, Chicago, Venezuela and

Cuba. (Ibid)

The clandestine

faction operating

in Cuba was lead by Pepin Fernandez Badue

who used

the alias "Lucas". (Ibid)

When Fernandez arrived in

the U.S. in October 1961, he presented his credentials to the

Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC), claiming he was the rep-

resentative of the MDC movement in Cuba, and Council president,

DI. Miro Cardona, accepted him into the CRC. (Ibid) The

"Lucas" faction remained with the council but declined in

importance because Fernandez failed to consult with the

Executive Committee of his faciton nor did he make any effort

to hold the group together. (HSCA Security File 092, Senstudy

Document, Volume 32, Item 1, #97-4110-721

The Rasco faction of MDC had as it Military Chief an

independently wealthy young Cuban, Laureano Batista Falla.

(Ibid, Item 2: #97-4110-123) Free-spirited and under no financiall

pressures, Batista was able to organize and partially finance the

infiltration attempts of the MDC (HSCA #009303, FBI #97-4623-149,

Section V) which made this one of the most

active and effective

underground groups in Cuba during the early 1960's. (HSAC

Security File 092, Senstudy Docuemnt, Volume 37, Item 4,

loval dorm

Florida, prior to the April 1961 invasion. (HSCA #009303, p.

4,

FBI #97-4623-149, Section 5) Batista made many (CIA-sponsorea

trips from this camp to deliver explosives, guns and ammunition

to the Cuban underground. (Ibia) Bior t

fore the Bay of Pigs

invasion, all underground groups worked together, sharing

141- 10241

---

## Page 2

elected

Prenden

'Rasco daction o the MiDe,

then le

Sateta: factisin

DRAFT- MDC - 11/7/78

Page 3

supplies and information. (HSCA Security File 092, Senstudy

Document, Volume 37, Item 4, #105-95461-15, P. 4) However,

the repressive measures of the Castro regime after the

invasion caused members of the Cuban undergound to live in

fear of discovery and made intergroup liaison extremely risky.

(Ibid, p. 2) Despite

the inherent dangers, the underground

movements of the MDC and Movimento Revolucionario del Pueblo

(MRP) worked

jointly for an all out sabotage effort in the

fall

of

1961. (Ibid)

Batista was

-in early

1-960,

Iw 1961

(CIA/OS-Laureano Batista-Pallay

He organzied public demonstrations

protesting U.S. government failure to properly aid Cuban exiles

in their attempt to overthroy Castro. (HSCA #009303, p. 6, FBI

#97-4623-180, Section 6, Corgelation Summary) and by 1962, the

CIA informed the FBI it had no operational interest in hitl. ditchif

(Ibid, P. 5, FBI #97-4623-149, Section Named to apter

In 1962-bahecane

feastern and the"Batista" faction of the MDC, entered into a number of

(H5CA009303, associations with other exile groups for the purpose of

P.8, stam 4,

46105-

propaganda, sabotage and supplying the Cuban underground.

FBL

183815

I 1262, many MDC membes joined the Cuba Committee, formed to

counteract the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, a pro-Castro

in the le.S.

organization. (CIA/DDO, MDC Volume 3, Cable to Director from

JMWAVE, 6/21/62, #14986) In 1964, the MDC and DRE (spell out)

worked together It formulate plans for an underground

organization to infiltrate Oriente Province. (CIA/DDO, Laureano

Batista Falla, Info. Cable TDCS DB 3/660-090, 3/14/64.

---

## Page 3

Even Baticta, cho accompanied Rorte ou

the

said, was upeet ty the premature ansourcemeut, (HSCA 00T33 Stam 2, P4, F6XI9)-N623-10)

009303. 2t5002, P.4. FBIH

97-4623-849)

DRAFT- MDC-11/7/78

Page 4

It was

the year 1963, however, that found the Batista

faction of the MDC involved in a large number of anti-Castro

activities.

The MDC made a unity pact with the Commandos L

in which

the latter

group was to provide training and assistance in

military intelligence and the MDC was to provide 3 small boats

and a team of

men to infiltrate Cuba. The MDC also made a

009203

pact with Dr. Carlos Prio Socarras, former Presâljent of Cuba

who donated $50,000 to the group for military aid in return

for its promise of political support. (CIA/DDO, MDC Volume 5,

Information Cable(UFG-3536, 9/3/63)

In April 1963, Frank Sturgis, Miami-based soldier of

fortune, supplied information that Batista, Orlando Bosch Avila,

Manuel Artime and Alexander Rorke were jointly planning an air

strike over Havana on April 25. (HSCA #009303, page 1, FBI #97-4623,

Section I) According to Sturgis, the strike was to originate from an

airstrip in Puerto

sugar refiner

The bombs wire of the hammade variety aud put together ly Bit ( Quid P5, In 2,

Alexander Rorke publically announced the strike had taken

place as scheduled, which took the other planners by

surprise

and they dismissed it

fads nocessary to implement their plan. (Ibid) This incident

created a

stir and

resulted in an intensive FBI investigation

of Rorke's allegation. (HSCA #009303, p. 3, FBI # 97-4623,

Sections II through VI) It was felt that Rorke's story was

probably untrue (Ibia, p. 2, #97-4623-35) since Radio Havana,

immediate

contrary to usual policy, made no,protest of the bombing.

(ISId, p. 3, FBI #97-4623, Section IV)

---

## Page 4

DRAFT - MDC - 11/7/78

Page 5

Richard Rudolph Davis, A Cuban älien, WIKK/A/ApeFiERY

рФКФ/ (HSCA 012981) had a peripheral association with the

MDC through his contact with Batista in the summer of 1963.

(Ibid) Davis was residing in New Orleans and, although not

at an earlier time

an MDC member, claimed/to have been a "coordinator" for the

group

and the New York Police Deparmtent. (Ibid)

He was

a friend of Batista

and contacted him because he knew

Batista

was

in

position

to recommend men

in the Miami area who

needed work. (Ibid)

Davis claimed he could provide employ-

ment for a small group of Cuban emigres.

Davis had entered into a business deal with geologist

David L. Raggio and a wealthy, right-wing New Orelanian, Gus

de LaBarre, forming the Guatemalay Lumber and Mineral Corpora-

tion. (Ibid) It was their intention to train the Cubans on

some land in Lacombe, Louisiana to which de LaBarre had access

through his nephew, Frank de LaBarre. (Ibid) After the train-

ing period, they were to be sent to Guatemala to cut mahogany.

A group of

about 18 Cubans did arrive, under the leader-

ship of a well-known Cuban exile, Victor Panegue (Ibid), who

Volse, stem a

used the military code name of commadante Diego. lala"- 4io is,

According to Davis, the men arrived dressed in khakis (HSCA 006716,

p. 4) with the idea they were to receive military training.

(HSCA 006716, p. 2, FBI, Richard Rudolph DAvis, Volume I,

Report from

New Orleans, 7/3/64)

In the latter part of July 1963, the FBI conducted a

raid on property near that of the lumber company training camp,

where they seized a cache of dynamite and other explosives.

(Ibid). This raid, according to Davis, unnerved his trainees,

---

## Page 5

DRAFT - MDC - 11/7/78

Page

6

and they elected to return to Miami. (Ibid)

A somewhat different version of this episode comes

from Gus de LaBarre's nephew and

attorney, Frank, who first

related his story in 1966 to his former law school classmate,

Jim Garrison.

(HSCA 012981, Fonzi memo 9/6/78)

de LaBarre

said his Uncle Gus had introduced him to

Davis, whom deLaBarre described

as a "floater". They came to

see de LaBarre about drawing up Articles of Incorporation for

the Guatemalan Lumber Company and that is when he learned of

their plans to bring unemployed Cubans from Miami to train as

loggers. Uncle Gus sent provisions to the exiles on a daily

basis and solicited money for food and clothing from friends

and relatives.

de LaBarre said he didn't pay much

attention to the

activities of the group but, when he heard on his car radio that

the FBI had seized a cache of ammunition at a house in Lacombe,.

he immediately called his uncle. Although receiving assurances

that the lumber group was not involved, de LaBarre called the

officers of the corporation together

and insisted that the

Cubans be taken out of

there. Davis claimed, according to

de LaBarre's version, that the Cubans did not want to leave,

whereupon

de LaBarre had to some some real "brainstorming'.

He rented

a Hertz

ton-and-a-half truck

and instructed

Davis to

take

it to the camp and tell the Cubans "that the invasion

is

on." Davis complied, and

the Cubans loaded

their gear, jumped

in the truck and

were brought to the Greyhound bus terminal

in New Orleans. Each Cuban was given a one-way ticket to Miami

plus a small amount of cash

and told

they would get their orders

---

## Page 6

MDC DRAFT - 11/7/78

Page 7

when they reached Miami. Looking as though ready for war, with

knapsacks and

guns bulging from under their

clothes, they

boarded the bus

and de LaBarre had no more contact with them.

The last he heard of Davis was

in 1964 when one of de

LaBarre's

friends reported he had gone into business with Davis and

was

left with a lot

of bills. (Ibid) :

SERGE.

---

## Page 7

7

on Porkis part? Stegio said the origial

planners were still trepig & nose the

Lends necessing to impleset their flaw,

This incident created a stir and resulted

in aw intencive FBI investigation of

Porkie allegation (HSCA0912Sp3, FBI # 97-4623,

he many Duestor from SAc Miami, Cape Cpe 1963)

Airpom

since Radio Havana, Contrary to usual policy,

made no protest of the bombing. (HSCA 009303 p. 3,

687 * 97-4623, See III, sendétetid CIA Dufo, Cable okaza

+346,876,5/27465)

* Quant Rechard Rudolple Dovi's story.

with leaders of other epile organgations,

Ander

July 1963, the Prico Somoza, former Precedent

of nicaragua, offered the MiC o hace for

operations in that corentry whick the

MDe acupled a(CIA/DDO 18F VOLI, Sufo. Report

eS DB-3-655, 118, Atol 1126/63) teA Duformation

was recried by the ClA that Venezuelaw Precident

Romalo Retaucout also offered D make a bare

available for the MDC and provide perconnel

and supplies I them. (ClA/DDO, LBF VOLI, Lufo Calle

n0.31000097 lleles)

---

## Page 8

Lu Oct 1768, after the World Congrese of

Christian Democrate in Strascheug, Dance, two

Went german offecials of the

Christiais

Democratic Party confersed with the MOC in

Miami. (CIA/DDO, MOC VOLS, fo Cable(4F 6.4531,)

1/29/64) According to one of the officiale,

the Weat Jermans, after months of study, had

deided & finance the MOC, NoT hecauce

they were pesticlady fond on let

fett once

the. Сивама

would have a Moral superiority one the

rest of tatia America. (Obid,)

---

## Page 9

Lucent for P. 9.

45. Cutoms raided MOC head quarter

in Miami on Apr 21,1964 and confercated

a lage cache of aims o ammunitions a

asserted Bitinto, ofter which the militar moe

section KeT up Separate headparten p continued

Is store materials for infiltrations attack muscions

agaerit Cubia. (092, Seustudy UP. 32, Item 2, 97-4110-123, P.t)

Ou July, Batista: Vector Paneque infiltratio

Man o equipment vito Cuba to form a nucleur

A guerrilla hande (Skid) Batesta said there

men were awaiting receipt of adequate arma

o ammunition at whick time they go cats the

moventains. (Obid pz)

Fianemy Sacet for po

Batuta puttinted

amanticle is PATRIA publically loomed

the MDS lakeled percons or organgation

сово receded favor

Yal and or backing

from the 4.5. goverment as "check

- eaters

(092- Geneticly VOL 3, Stam 2, P-5,92-4110-132)

---

## Page 10

Bateta was displessed with the manner

in which his men carre treated in thie

LA Counties,

saying that local polce

treated Clams in a harsh manner,

violated there

leil right o Confereated

thei property. (11501 Secuit, file 097. Senstudy

rewrite

ment. Voh. 33

Stir 1, 7 98-4110-86, p.13-14)

He alleged theis

treatment was a Quest

pault of 4.5. diplomatic enfluence on

there goverments of present Chan piles

He stated

of the miami

area

hecauce it was

apparent although the C.5. gout. hard a

policy of stopping Culaw

sailers, it chil not

prosecute them. (Shid)

(Oncest Customa)

The nise as e the latte pout of 1964, Batista wahed

To Concentratin, his efforts on fund ricsing. for

the moe, colitige contributions from a

number of beating promenest Americane.

(Slid, Sten 2, 91-4110-132 p.3) He ales aud

efferessed aw interest is making contact with

the Johw Brick Society f met tosible Souner

& financing. (bid) the moe had a

Cacho of equipment belged o have bere

stolen from It Jackson. MC. (Shie I wel

loft louthe When Bateta riested the mie

---

## Page 11

training bace in the Dominican Republi

helened to took this

equipment witti him (Obid p.5.)

- Petite eventuly gone of hie

anti-Castro actretion, moved

Washington, D.C. and received a

Ductoral degree in politecal scence in

Spreng 1970 and then moved I Venezuela,

(HSCA. 009303, p. 7, Stem 3., FBT " 97-4110-207,

Report from Meanes 1/28/10)

The IDe suffered thie fate of other

anti. Castro organizations findeig I ED

increasingly difficult to finance

infillation auel, sabotage mucions aud

I limit their actectics. The organization

gradually declined in imfortance.

---

