# 180-10143-10116

## Page 1

180-10143-10116

No let Sext to

Crite

000/33

Hold in

TINS COPY IS NOT

SECRET

FOR RELEASE®

Hardway note

file

Mickey bolds mith opened.

the interest lege lining

mate the More elist

totDillenger Jand Sestetner=

Mulbestetner Haid tha

he haid been the heard of the

soviet lection of the Merico.

City ltation in 1965.

His main

lots as toget intonation o

and thei

activities for recognition

purposes and espionage/;

counter=espranage activities

In line with these goals Mr

I Statetner iças responsible

barret personnel My analtme

personnel and thorough

agents who were in contact

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Repreeve

70703-4016

---

## Page 2

000134

_ SECRET

was readin

Mro Dillenger remembered

that they recieved all the

This included the spanish

and the Englich transcripts

although the English.

then the ally aired later

Mat Dillenger tindicated that

she hado.

ofspanich. 8.

"working knowledge"

responsible for reporti

---

## Page 3

000135

SECRET

3

In 1963 Mrs Dillenger

cripts were read dail

as a matter of routine She

phato produation was not

reviewed unless anne

soodpasture refered it to

carton copies of the transcripts

on yellow paper. Extracts

from the transcripts were

put into appropriate subject

on "P" files.

that a chronologial dale t

They were less sure but

thought that such. ev fil

wasalsokept.om.th

production of th

files were designated by a

four part. grumber. (ex: 30-00-0=0)

---

## Page 4

SECRET

0136

4

BallE Dillenger 7 Bestetner ?

indicated that materials

ere probably destrayal

Ther

Frank estancana

English. Mo. Bestether

indicated that.he had.a

lose working relationsh

inth Boris Farataff and

rave instances when there

i moone else to do A

---

## Page 5

SECRET

-5-

013>

photo surveillance was

malfunction...

that to te pe gett

maries of the conser.

Mation being prepared

persomalitost desments orally

---

## Page 6

SECRET

-6-

0138

broken Russias

indicated her and bestetper.

on things of interest. Ther

was not case contact

between the Cuban and

soviet Operations.

saw all the tran

from the doriet aperations

They indicated thatICarasabl]

not, as a rule, make

notations on. the transcripts.

as a vile he made his

notations in a seperate

note a tata dutie)

Le that danasafo

did make she notation

---

## Page 7

SECRET

0139

-7-

about Oscaldo Russian

De said est he bad neve

makemargelnal.comments

[Mr bestetner said that

= Jarasaff Juas an exact

relevant to counter-intelli

gence, counter-espionege, eta

they indicated that every

conversation was transcribed

They. could not recall th

The is said that the

raps were not

tirected at the soviet

ambassy.

Embary bustat the piat

Mo. Sistether said that

agent en the that an

onsulate or Military

attaches office.

aid hate end hestetier 1

Im-i

---

## Page 8

SECRET

-8-

0140

contacts were restricted

to social meetingo, dsecus-

sion of personality.eralia.

tions, and on rare accasions

transmittal of thE tapes an

transcripto Mo bestetner

indicated that he involve

I Farasaff more than an

other transtator and that

he was more than

adigately competant,

both said that

they pag в риров

I Shaw as Chief of Cuban

oration the her They

---

## Page 9

SECRET

0141

hey said tha

narde uras professionally

did hit bin hotel He-

the embassy

I Dillen

nofbestetner.]

said that!

Whitter

quas

the head Of the Mexico desk

ind that Charlatte Bustasi

to the best of their recollection

lo worked on the mexico

desk. They said that the infor

have gone higher, unles

there was.some.con

rovers

so higher interest. involved.

wreport.afa.foregner.visiti

a foreign egypsy would not

---

## Page 10

SECRET

0142

10

intMo sestetners fpiornion,.

mepastamasalmont

ly routine, espcially

inlate susmen.

I They said thats

[ mcKa

jiasaw.anatyst.in.th

ubrois

siction..

Thand Reenan

and was mivolied in.

I the sensitive surterllams

aperations, SEEFT.

---

## Page 11

SECRET

0143

RH Feldma

raw th

techn

an elde one

unrelhance tean

volved in

mostaf the

natall of the

o operations, if

I Mo Sestetner said that

ле-ми.

I Mr. Sestether said that

Sarasoft would routinely

the transcript. 'He does not

recalleresinstructingSarasof

not to make marginal commenti

SECRET

2n12,

---

## Page 12

SECRET

-12

0144

officers

gas intelligenes

af.how@swald.first.come

to their attention Dillenger

indicated that her memory

ungs that the hit ste had

had

..was from a tran-

sriptaf.@swalds.conver.-

They were then thanist

---

## Page 13

SECRET

-13-

0145

E billenger did.not recall

this t

ranscist as the

finst one she saw. after

seeing the cable the sent to

HQ ow 1018 she said that thi

nanscupt must have fue

the one becourse of th

similarity of the nosa

of the info. When

reference to a visa in the

conversation; she acknow.

legded that there was not

sucha reference. Whewasked

am. to Mashington

and the fact that he was

calking to the consulate ha

made Itolvions to he

have had already

he pristanced then

Because of the absence of

---

## Page 14

SECRET

14

0146

some of the prior traw.

tion of some of the

knowledged writin

- Dillenger )had no recollectio

cable (MEXi 6453) and, at the

---

## Page 15

SECRET

15

0147

connection between the

conversations was noted

pros to the assassination

priThent Dillengers was

asked about the paragraph

m Meri6453 about th

photo the said that she

wust have checked the

photos. She was showna

chato of the mmmano

said she thought that tha

trying to describe, She s

since Asiald had indicated

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-16-.

D148

that boat had meculated

---

## Page 17

SECRET

=17-

0149

spoken to Kostibor, she

said that she could not

remember but she was

sure she must have

rechecked it and had

proof, as otherwise she

would.

nat have used

---

## Page 18

SECRET

18

0150

then

those other details."

Bestetner sangerand

was ver

this hedy unlikely that

with Dave Phillips

I bestetner acknowledged

w. photo of Oscald..

ending Mexist equating

not recall recrevino

response to this cable Thi

asked whether he hadener

heard that, ovany

to the effeat that mos

a photo of Oswald I Sestetier]

first answered.

in the

positive. He then retracted

isanswer.and.denied eve

knowinger hearinghad

~ photo bestetner said that

if HQ. had a photo of @swald

taken bya terpist in Russia

---

## Page 19

SECRET

19

0152

i walled by to that

the rothe backnowledged

was that the date was

September, 28.

Neither/Sestetonernor

[DillengenT could recall

specific detail, about the

Soaparture

this sinusualSECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

-20-

015P-

I bedetver said that

he did not know whether

linicannestattanwald

said that all info

available had been

reported when the 9/27

conversations, the sirit had

not been reported. He can

- wh

- Mexi 70.34,

says that the onl

wasto.theCullan.on.om

9/28/63

I Bestetner acknowledge

that it would have been

have unional for 14o to

visited the Embassies

at least o times and not have

been picked egory the photo

---

## Page 21

0153

SECRET

aperation

I sestetren continualli

reamphasiged that LH0's

wist + the report was

a rautine matter. He said

not respond

sorret embassy afore is

involvin

When shown the

pressusly transaribed!"

hand the an?

---

## Page 22

0154

very unusual that

the 10/10 DIR

As to the possibility

of conspiracy he said

to elisa ned with

of what

them with anten

staff members

SECRET

---

