# 180-10142-10242

## Page 1

180-10142-10242

Box 23

FOLDER 24

$ 30

his retunce a

October 24,

1978

busest

Dearest Chris,

Funny you should have written me asking if I had ever heard

about Manuel Rey

—- he has been

of interest to me

for nearly a year -- so here is all you ever wanted to know

but were afraid to ask.

Manuel Ray Rivero was born in Cuba in 1924.

He has

been described as

softspoken, unassuming, almost humble --

a natural leader of the highest intellect, deepest sincerity

2

and conviction.

In 1947, because of his outstanding performance

as a civil engiager, he was granted a scholarship by the Cuban

Ministry of Public Works to pursue graduate studies in engineering

at the University of Utah. Ray was in the United States for

austriput gianot complete his work for a Masters pegree:

When he returned to Cuba, he held various positions in the

engineering field, one of which was Project Mánager for the

construction of the Havana Hilton 'Hotel.

= 10

In May 1957 he organized the Civic Resistance Movement,

which supervised sabotage and acts of terrorism against the

1(456 A 009005 Outtiew)

Batista regime.

Fidel Castro appointed him Minister of

i works in February 1es trays with castropae-

-cause of his fonmunist comrections.dulIn November 1959, Ray

was a

ed and relieved of his official position. He then

founded

the anti-Castro Movimento Revolucionari

del Pueblo

and served

as its Chief. Other individuals completing the

leadership of the MRP were: Raul Chibas, Special Assistant

to Ray; Juan Esteves Ramires, Secretary; Ramon Barquin,

Military Intelligence Matters;

ane Rogelio Cisneros, Chief

of MRP in Cuba.

D NOT MYRATUCE

RETURN TO C 42-10242

---

## Page 2

by bites :

CAse officers:

):

In the Summer of 1960, while still in Cuba, Ray

was actively recruited by the CIA to become a member of the

FRD.

His background was questioned by the State Department

i TAT Liny

and the Miami CIA office. Despite their objections, Ray

was granted Provisional Operational Approval by the CIA on

October 25, 1960 and, with the aid of the CIA, he was brought

clandestinely into the United States on November 10, 1960.

Ray's personnel papers

at the CIA contain the following

assessment: "Subject has definite political action potential,

is a pro-democratic official of

government who is not in

sympathy with

aims of international Communism and

is interested

in strengthening

ties between Cuba and U.S:"

Not everyone in the CIA who knew Ray) were in agreement

with this assessment. In a Memo for Record, dated 11/21/60,

it was reported that, "... Ray did not politically represent

anything to cheer about." Another CIA officer who met privately

with him in November 1960 stated that his political posture

was doubtful as far as U.S. Government acceptance was concerned.

CIA official

Still another/assessment of Ray stated that his action all

seemed directed toward making him the future power in Cuba

rather than overthrowing Castro.. It was believed that Ray

was so far "left" in his thinking that he would be as dangerous

(or more so in the long run) to U.S. interests as Castro, if

he ever got to be a power in Cuba.

Ray made his political position very clear during a

private meeting

with a CIA officer on November 15, 1960 - five

days after

his arrival in the U.s.

said that the MRP did

and

not wish to reinstate the 1940 Cuban/ Constitution/that the

---

## Page 3

Castro laws passed

at the beginning of his regime would be

continued. Ray further stated that he believed the State

should regulate private investments and/utilities should

be nationalized.

Charges of

"Fidelismo without Fidel" were

made against Ray's group, the MRP,

because of these "leftist"

ideologies.

Negative information about Ray was also voiced by

sins the Cuban exile community and came to the attention of the

He was described by one exile as highly dangerous

because of his ambition to play a prominent role in the Cubany

government afterCastro's overthrow.

Miro Cardona was opposed

to him on the grounds that his program

was too Marxist and

further stated that Ray was bitterly anti-American as well

as probably totalitarian in his thinking. Manuel Artime

said the MRP was opposed to banning the Communist Party and

in favor of "nationalizing everything."

Although aware of his controversial political

→ philosophy, the CIA actively recruited Ray to join the FRD.

Perceness

(, The White House and State Department pushed for his inclusion.

Ray received full/operational approval as a "political

asset" on February 7, 1961 and accepted

appointment to the

CRC in March. He himself had resisted joining the CRC be-

cause he felt

the members

were too restrained and he did not

want to become a part of a situation

in which

someone else

was running the show for the exiles.

Within a week after

agreeing to join, Ray met with a CIA officer and

complained

that Miro was backing away from his commitments and was not

willing to give Ray any voice in the Council. He recalled

---

## Page 4

the events of this period to HSCA investigators in 1978,

stating that certain influential and wealthy Americans,

among them William Pawley, opposed him and a lot of heavy

propaganda was circulated at this time accusing him of being

a Communist.

---

## Page 5

Dient

Carls terrast. JUPE Chip & Leport CC1A/100

Opo 1964

hat Te was of operational interest Is the CIA. (Skid

Versonalty Dele Represt 10 (ug 1964). $ 197z (Shichz-

General Doofo Larraga evas

(resposible fou a great

JaRE

deal parme o an enormor

he supply of ifflocies

in Miami 4 Baerto Riéo. Jarraga reuigned from

JURE in Sept. 1964 (Plüd Tuel Que Report 7125/69).

CIA/DDO Zarraga-Fuld Dufo Report 9123/64)

---

## Page 6

Quett!

(ANSHOT /1)

story

During this period, it har been

alleged

that Bay was friendly with momhere

of the Puests Recan group which plotted I

assadriate Preadint Tsuman. (CAst daace

Nacuments, Dupatch O Deputy Chief, WHISA from COS AIMWAVE,

4/14/64, prico, D.F. - Prom aw undercour source with

eryptonym (AMSHOT/R.). Upow recesht of this infor.,

Rays lace officer questioned the sebalility of the

information...HSCA reseacher endeavored I

dintify couce + was told (AMSHOT) was stel

a Current asseT in 1978) and a good

hiend of

(hid) Of was further alleged that

Ray was in frequent Contact with Puent Praise

who were working on the sensoation of the

White House.

Whic) The assassination attempt

8 Preo. Isuman occurred at Blai Houre, acros

the sheet from the W.Ho deerrig, the tene the

Trumous were ring this tome an an

lal sendence until suel time as te

Tute House senioratone was complete

Mie rather be no mory a suad in

disseminated 8 the secret Serine" (HSCA 008290)

and the FBI (H SCA 006468, Pems)

---

## Page 7

Her actual accop. accomplishn

rents where

croridy questioned withen the CiA. Within

the Water Hemisphere division, he was

avered as notorious for claiming acets or

and his accomplichests twards the effort I

crettion Castro negligeble. (217/000 Ray VOLU,

Memo for Record, Tay 5, 1961, from Calven Heike,

Sulj: ManoloRay- Commepite on his Anti-Castro.

Actuitier) Stir easy acces It the White

House and Stale Dept made come wither

the agency heritant to support him outeide

the umbrell a of the CRC for fear that he

would discuss the his arrangemente with

the CA and, in a matte of time, the whole

Cubaw epile Comi

runty would know where

Ray was gettig his support. (CIA/DDO Ray Wit

Memo for Record, June 2,1961, from

Subj: Relations with panolo Ray i the MRI)

Fay continued To the of closely

ascoceated. with

Atle er as evidenced t

Continuous siles or

he from 1960 - 1946

ndecating he was of Jeraturial Vuterert lo.

tem.. no documentation is copaulable o

ascertain.denan

ial outlays too the MRY, as

---

## Page 8

detution and;

reinstate the 1940 l

Castro at the

«ll utilities, (CIA/DDO Ray VOL II, Cable I Durector from MASH)

Quart F_ Ie told two anté-Castro Culous in

Apsil. 1959 that he recognized the symptoms &

ommences si the Castro regeme but wa

not prepared to conopire against "Il Rider

Mapimo...

(give 4o This Day-p. 91) Bay was

relieved of his official portion in how. 91959

(HSCA 005 990; p. 2, FBI Correlation Study, Manolo Ray

file +57-4576, Sec.) hut Continied I permit

his nome I he acrociated with the Cartro

regime (Glie un this Day-p.92) until the 1

formed the Revstationary Movement of the Verople (MRP)

around May 1960 (HSCA. 009005), thie anti-Castro

organization.heline@that the idea aud aime

of the democratic left best suited the neede

7 aspirations of the Culaw people. (CiA/DDO Pay

Vol. I, a June 1962 study of program for blurtiai

of eula tubmitted hay. Ray Arcociated with

Ray in this underground organization were

Raul Cubar, Ramon Barquis, Rogelió leneroe

(CIA/DDO. Ray UOL II, Organization MRP) Rufo Lopez

Gresquet and Ilife Pazor (que is This Duy, p92).

Ray was tritize eriticized an a

tary acherant Do the anti-Castro movement.

(quie us this Day p92) and Charges of "Didelin sir

Fidel" were made against him and the MRP becaure

of their leftect ideologies, (CIA/DDO Ray VOLII Contact

Report from Wallace Garlet), 10/17160, Sulj; Matug wette

(Quan Esterez." Jorge Berupt: 10/13/60.)

---

