# 180-10145-10399

## Page 1

180-10145-10399

DIO

DIO

DDO

8/1/18

DDO File Renew

SECRET

5:00

P.M.

PAGE IA

O9EZTITT

Abject: EUSEBID ARcuE

CIA In. Rept. u: Cormunist affiliatino a

AtE TERESA PROENZA; did: 1-5-62

given to Chuck Buk fr. wires

Subject: IRUNS AmiON.

31d

адену оту

.: PB/ doc. ata 4/25/69

O5tate Dept suno 1 1/11/69

Inbject: LEV ARONSOn

1/ 1/22/69 dispatch u: Arman's anisatio

@ Sorrets... in Paris (Armoi

conversations i

againt intellitualo

DOB: C.1894 POS: POSSIBLY ST. PETERSBORE, MUSSIA

→ and FAINBORE

Statin Comment: CIA! int. in A is based

at that A's rest is prequented h

visiting i local Sorrets. They

have FAINBBRG culturte him

an

This position may

unwitting sovice. he trying to do same.

Ammew: Nothing here seema amies, No indic

unwitting here seme

in. fill of success of follow-ug

SECRET

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Nọt Fleproduce

1

180-10145-10398

1до

---

## Page 2

alert Remin Cine Rese baes

Tectonger illas in sulles- Suey 141956.

00-53 6 Vac. 1:

SECRET

brice tina fine ligen dip in

May 30, 1973 -

mised itches l 1971. ih. Freund of the kyaffe

ho then in tale up welly to many yeah,

моло

but met in regend to ICC theise « Ce.

into d the see techhit if liner

58% jiler,

My, i use placed in the squared

1ns here 19007

nu letterhead daid Parch e 1992 it/ke

from Des 2/5/78 4i Repanck

11112451

SECREE

---

## Page 3

Аргії;

91976 Draft to Berkkirg

11146991

Read Me. Sternbery.

SECRET

Is gore nughe pusses, ejou, organ since

sin to the Ogency Mowng the receipt of your lette?

31/18, a more definite to den io deta

ids to the Let either directly in underectly I tick

litter in allay any appretensions you ange,

iter's has had in this mitter,

Bernige bean

See 31962

11112452

епи.

to Been Manhause Indicating

C, as Mie - intelligene nes haun

Chine 151942 Petitype Me do I Can t

Major si: Cherne

ra Meyer as I0 on certai senatue matter some

the itics if which see the min sompetele cheche

that are matter if tench hone pasti

Chant ich. The lead tes inested liftin dee

arrinie is the dese Hity has lifesti

Chee

he attempt diletergicer

citin lie it lee kee

"criter: in witt in thake

SECRET

Mistin pissol

---

## Page 4

Windy coney sen

Khat Rady in t

ln jes there.

ca. писал

i in things etch des has degre

He nice appreciate you attempting to get a

that it wants he some ke dan te the decli

liate pine bulgers is is gregent conse

Peein" the leage us in ties i

My 11 ti tit there

infirence. held l: future on ACC thired.

te seminican Kip i Cula,

july indicted that. Do une Welling t

Haw it it hilt it untertes i the W its

pull discen is to the anoes of th whee

inier he required to excie the, continued

wites of the ARe, titlity that a grant?

11o0, 000 wice he male auriable te sCC alching

11112453

---

## Page 5

VII.

SRE Miscellaneoris Cameng

1919-52

SEGRET

uly 21 1952 My Dicit

170:5403

P6 Bea from Cinciaft by Olin 40 2238

Case 10,918 li spelling liference

OTLOLN-OCCOLU

Cm 2195 2 413/-

Nel. 9195-4 713-

16:0-1832

I0C

340N49

5C. 013313792

731 Mag 14,19577

11112454

105=1503:

231 Apil 24,1951

#: 105-1-7141

13l : Cug- 5,953

100- 335078

7331

frang: +431-(190-350463)

SEGRET

---

## Page 6

RALLIN

dion ticklindere

SEGRET

elit of state Belgion Mist de Pace disa

Tal: 28/11/82

Lecies

go table- Nine 191991

her Diach 1471

Frie for Bacter nt Engilige

and it determing if thanie Lad Yensed

an a periling shite form Cries Curence

mun to saction in pistole the cirin

I the invent tie sheet chunt a

plutepy of a casters dick gir170,000.

iron is chantes nome Charter allegedly

replies then le have identings up mani

linger trying that. if he had han

Rail ben a premen

Bruner

:.•9455

---

## Page 7

eguissig -

Перії н Jet.

SEEM

ннё aci. Pinkcc. tiT

4 Qujueet 1970 Confeddentias.

Reense if Palitsanl Presenein

Gips of stao Deleghem

Part au Presie 340

8 May

1976

senie qhui in

Measuier taken hy Gor Agune Aoligee

cinspuatine

Deipt of tlate

11112456

Pint' au Pirencei 5%6

& May 1?70

Uachissifiir

Confescaron Ciseta 4CgC

Lipt iy Btate Zikeigien

ost aue Prenca 412

28 April 1920

Conpicentris

Beparós of Exeurns y Qisino dlleges

braswed an tes Buin Cttiie

Peae ieu Presice 275.

dsn y stzee

1 Cipril. 1170

SECRET

i. Wich d Lannenein dend Cipiin

---

## Page 8

1-21 - 11

Chance eat SEGRET.

Pains

20 Cates- Have Deeee 2 & Grange Ly

Pai if Edmiser - Musins, He.

1-17-20

Them for dip Chup titl? des an ith?

Falling ins recept of enfor tiddis his

taken i less of segusient is the IS Embarry

in Pitan thinee

Will here thi dignit te terminated

did Bie hid liken gette of chappy deceily.

Concled that me farther tigements Wheeld

Pet instant would be timestic, li fast, c se

they wared cortine to delhi then enterice

Ci494 l/ (Sce. 17) Chat this wide hat

thingh, that the coctict too shred be completaly

Lein. The sier did a there in the dee ISR

hittint of been had heir terminated.

His de Autorned (DIK. 4827, 21Q469

SET 14112457

Janus P Hullan

G/WH/T/HT

8.

---

## Page 9

alfonse Takers-

stark, ANH: CRuip of Stafe

M. Keiner Blain - Beas if Gine suartermaste Casaha

tie: Kains A. Drea - Precident

LiD. Siternatinal Korp

230 5* Que

Nif. City

geny - 7331 Bor

in Quy i902 Clare-Hone-gener

cesent f charles

= 6311. (Mans.)

Deph of State Gerziem A134

Qug 13,1969

Dips if State Gigam B-14

sm tiemane

Tet 1. 1945

11112458

---

## Page 10

Been Retin

thas fi had pracede lue y 9 quearnes

ts an official of

Mitte chill pret, along stence, lippedea

l intele: regisements Chalen teed the En

fant farted in be Jet to done

'te Pertagon....

Friped John Haster!

11112459

SECREL

10.

2/0/04

---

## Page 11

BETY LICHTERCELS

-SEGRET

RESPONSE TE ESCA RIQUEST DATU

PEACEO BELOCE PRESIIEZLIS GOULISSIONI IN RESPONTE TE

Y COLECTION WITA THE CIA, IFORMER 0C DICECIL

PEPILETS IL FORM OF APRINAiNT (CXiABIL $20 : pe. S46 0f

O/ XII OF LUS RETORI) SINCE THEN NOTHINO HAS CORLE

TE AMENTIONI DE TUE CA THAI LUONIA CIANGE

LCONES AFFIDAVIT. COCA DICATEN THELE IAN NEVER

SETT AN ASSOCIATION BETUEEN NtO and Cit

VES;

ABCAM -DDO - 10050 DOUS:

PERICE Of SECICiTY BERNICES INTICONAICE MEMO

тису 19,19113

- RE PIONiSICAL SECURITY GEANES.

to: ChmsE3, A.H.

11112460

0712

MARCE 202, 1967

ALITONIA CHAYES (WIRE DE CUTRES)

ABRIA GAYES WAS CUTAREI FOR CASEN

-SEGRET

SENSELEN

DATE OE INVADINIE - PHOTOCOPIES PIECES OF PARLI

O ACCORDINE TO A NLTUSPACUNE COLLUN OF ANALI S

IL THE CHICAGO AMERICAN OF DEC 6, 1903 ON +HHE

LHO CASE, ABRAM CIMIEI, LEGAR OFFICER OR TUE-

SERTE DEPI, WAS ONE CE 2 PERSONS MIMCAIATEZY CUPOLE

BLE CUR ME BEING PERMINES TO KETUN TOTIENS

FROM THE SOVIET UNION IN TUNE 1RUZ THE OTHER

VIVIANAL WAS LEWERYN TORBON TUE THEN

HE ALBIASSADUR TE RUSSIA ANOTTERE SAII TO ItAVE

BEzz

-INVOLVEN IN TE IANDLING OE TOS CASE

WAS SAM WISÉ, COUNSER OX TItE AMUK EMBASSY IN

---

## Page 12

Ber Rickingel

SECRET

UNTIL TILOS POEMON CE RILE ON COM GADET ATTACIEO PORTION

ASS MATERIAL CONTZUNITA

ANVISE DE PENTECT ACCION

FOCAL LURK 125%

APRICE CE OCCUATIONS WAS AUTORINET tO PETRIBURSE

GRIDIT, RUBUSTER OF THE LAN AMERICAN REPORTS A

ALEKLY SLICUEY O POLLEN I ECONEMIC CONDITOUS IN LAN

MERICAN FIR CURIAN BEECIAL REPORTS PRIM INS CORRESPON-

LUIS POURING ADDITINAL COSTI IN HIS PAGEM MEET

LEEDS ME CAUSET HASTLOIL CONTINUE TO MACE A

ACOST TO TUE AGENCY IE IS ESTHMTEA TEST FUC

O 1000.00 WILL BE MACQUATE TO MINE CONTINUE

AE SPLIAL DERVICE REFERRES TO DUCING PSCAL YEAR

1221

MUO SiNSICA COPS CA SECCINI AGRLETIENT DIONED 134

Lin. GROUT 150

PREtECTS REViEW COLM:

11112461

AESE ASSST. DIR FOR OPERATONS

UM. GADET

SETUP OF CONNIELS COX REPORTS 15 AS FOLLOWS:

COSTA RICA

ECUADOR

Gunrizimit.

ARGENTINA

PANARI

LICA-6e1/4

GALLANOE

BRAZIL

HONDuRAS

ENCUMBIA (MEDELN)

CIteLE

VETLEZUOZA

DOLURICAN REPUBLiC

HAITi

TALIANA

СиВА

PALAGUAY

THE GUIANAS

SECRET

0: M

---

## Page 13

CHICO CA REPUEST ON CAYES MIREI ANTONIA

_SEGRET

D deber

ON REB 10 102 HUMAN CURIT CEPONIEA AS FOLLOLOSI

'SC NI CONCHINISH" REP FCANCIS E WALTER

BA) CHA OF MUSE CUAM eN UN-ALIERIÇAN A

ACTUITIES IS SCOCEO MIE NEU STATEDEPT

RECuLAMOUS ON PASACS I ROLE FREELY TIE

ACTiTEL FLES DE TTE EBI, CIA aNd OHETE INUESTGATIVE

UCLES: THE RIAN BEHINI THE NEU REEULARONS

T 01 1952 15 LEPORTELY JATES LLOAL ANUSOR ABCAM

HAVES

1052500

11112482

JUNTE DOC

INEO OBTANGA FROM USEMBASSY,

TEIN AVIN VICEKA NO6S EDITON

DATET P APRIL 1903 1

REFERENCE OSTAINET FRON

CiA DOC NO: 5P - 469%

DATE

30 APRiL 19603

CUSS: SECKET

SUBT. ABCAM CHANES

CItAVES, ABLAM - DEA FILE

PEDE-- HAPUERA CAN SCILOOL

PROCES SHEET FUR ICA COLLECTIONS-

REPRICTS DE THE FOLC ORTING ORUHAS ATME

124,12

PUGWASH CHLFERENCE

CONTALT- CHAVET - HACUARO LAU

-SECRET

---

## Page 14

Sentirterpita

La Fles

SEGRET

301- 254248 UP XXXVIII

Maj 12.181901

089-298

Tay 12 1164

ma po la Rona

Harver istedaled to appeas lifore WC

ut competenene neme chice kegh-

lighte the basi wien a pasiteni

lifi

11112463

ritesunisi

Ned poukens teken in pression

visiten

ma au procesio

int Airle

I infarned kim that in

Jor men the mired ame a muntes

sUr X011

wrna madi sus tosi the

serieto di ausue o ct implicato

since i carld we serve as the beno

fer ditaled ques

DP)

Mated te urnet

nale s decisin da to the queston of teing TiA

---

