# 180-10144-10229

## Page 1

180-10144-10229|

Notes - Charles Berk

Doc.l

10144-10239

---

## Page 2

-

-

Hartman

689-2981

695-302#

138

-598

563-816

7-

435-173

1188 - 1000

1-1B ~

6- 3

1380-107341

173-615 V

2-524v

State Telegram of Out 51, 1959 (Freers)

Cuderon Connersation t notet Cable

CApp 983-944 HTLINGURA CarlS of Oswald

195um or 15 May Worfreuest (mise does)

get copy ofrelenst letter

---

## Page 3

KRII

689-298 -

31

100

15°

Helms

spivale

174- 181

Nas it t fact delivere,

695-30217 - supra

138-598

- why theconcernabout Calderon

et al

563-810

7 - 3

- Did you write it

still missing

/why.keeploosehn/ast fole

state lens to attra

Henry

pays description

purakova

788

1 - 1B

785

943-944

6 - 3

ATLINGUAL

A G

Henry

(1/516V

date-toperint

restricte

is of gong 196.

wrong description

→, WATCHRIST

w/R -RI

F'S

---

## Page 4

Helms

8787

2-527 - whethe*

asuflo

2105=

2108

DIdn

check

DDI

whatch

rel

cabasis

1188-1000 = go over tonorrow

a cort toes to datinate

b.

- whydid you check

main index

what.-was integraterin

did gou check HTLANGUAL

- what's division D

Ge: threwas a fecurstyfi4e

t. whats iRs

I. what about hee or Leutenn

FAnatideli

4. Le workedias 0 for ayrs

whattypeofinfo was

CDIAN

show up sittin

de: Why 201 opered so late

f. lei

why 1st sent to rial bete

MAHONNAL

---

## Page 5

Ce. Supp selly of state

She testither tornis

---

## Page 6

1386-1737+173-615

435 - 173

- ever

*h's

telms

3369

-

was leawar

men

Diatecheck/ the

was it reported

to him ever

Did Le check

w/ the Corde

of Reserch

section

ot SR!

---

## Page 7

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 8

Hartman Inters. ew

946-5241

1951-1976-

etred in 1976.

spentin office

2: 1963-1864- membe y Roccegimp

assignments

ad hor aoo

gatin

maintained file creater based

all paps in recend agater went nts

LHo 201

3. Outer soolz i Tom Hill, decades

41/918- wonted chas with offe

5,

1974-1975) 61 Staff HTLINSUAL

---

## Page 9

10/31/59

Jamlia with

516- american noseder wit

be a special investigaten

would live no/ outs got agen

1- 1B. -

That Coral do adore.

W/KEB

Mathing in CIT nuts (Reende

Harles see penin

en't cat file on

zuz becau

didn't know cooker

hecking mitto

---

## Page 10

The and total

*

menta, to

di Ra not senio

AE is a code in the recod Landbook

Its too litth code froccupation

imputeriged

2-521 - A- Means 2HO

aufecty tho

201

HTLINEUAL cardS

PROJECT/PH -

---

## Page 11

2-3

- Hers odd point

macate on 201 perig-

dossn't than (Buste)

5, 2350

mean antie

bernue cull.

are handled

acconding to

wick load,

pesple

Gajit plain pant, sin

5. e King - aubelicate pos ne els y suficen

utting to releas at ofu

---

## Page 12

138-598

Done, may have kin mete

about it

435-173A dosa't resubs

Your it-steik

de megihave

come, coaste Ame mAHO-

a creep

TEA KOJUMP-) PeDor oS

Beliess

iDick

LE fu

gues a death

---

## Page 13

563-810 Fink Recent

was written in ennecten

to be follen, we mande,

a were available but

I not phe

nt feels done

dress ended recond

memo. to be road t

ferne me,

doesn't knuw what happened

to alaikmes

might have Kept fren

089-298 - nevs saw it-

625-13024. do utt

remembe, the affadave

write if

---

## Page 14

P. Hatre Brain Epar

2 a

Tre not wite

zb.

checked main indy at nose

volitin

tem, intrated in - FBI docs

cable traffe

didn't check HTLINGUAL-

2q. checked DeanD becau

Las senative holding -

dealt wINSA

2 e.

DDI

Centre Rebrone Service

→ ne can an econd cal menu

---

## Page 15

Zg. neis checled unde Alek ede

2K - recmatunted date s

rat uanno й

nate is nao

fupe ces

t af otk ogut

preoums

Hatima dech coas

wiefa chinga

recessary? → slatement - als ames

hare vee cnf fum Helme

whue Ttelm

turcun chiss trat

abrrad

INDED

3, Roern toed din o boubl,

Buk o'ner

Fiezeman,

vanon

4. ito tie n tena e

Joe

strei, uniete t eond

Jre m fcheck 20l iget ne cand de ouz no 2it duo

ISK

piler

---

## Page 16

dist check of miltong swis

76 to terate rates

mayle he's wing

Osk-note

fat me sorte

---

## Page 17

vhea C1516 Led 20

Se 202260

---

## Page 18

My name is Robert Genzran.

Iam staff counsel to the

House Select Committee on

Assassinations. I. have Been

designated counsel impowered

to tike statements under oath

pursuant to House Resolution

222 and select committee

Rule 4.

Me. Wartmow, would you state

your fill name for the

reca

Committee Pules and pertinent

House Recolutions?

Have you read Conimittee Rule 4?

Do you understand it?

---

## Page 19

it true that you are sition es

position"

A you tetifying voluntarily?

Do you understand that you have

the right to have counsel present?

Do you desire to have counsel present?

will be dent to you to sigh

and verfy. Of, when you

receive a copy to righ and

verify, you desire to make

my changes for any reasons

you should contact me and

I will make the necessary

are it goe gee you

desire to make.

cording. to the selle

ommilter Rules, a vitreis is

entitled to a copy of the

corsected transcript;

---

## Page 20

howeves, because this deposition

will involve classified

information, it has been

D our policy to ask the

witness o to waive his

right to a copy.

Me Waito, have you worked for the

Entral Intelligence Agency.

Dates.

51-76

An connertion ith your angloy ment

with the CIA, have you ever

executed a secrecy oath or a

secrecy agreement weth the

CIA?

At this time I would like to give

you a copy of a document

marked as. JFK Exhibit 94,

whichis a letter from is.

Frank Carlucci, Acting Director

the CiA, to the Chairman

of the House Select Committee

on...

assassinations, dated Mard 23,

---

## Page 21

1978

y and dealing with

secrecy arrangements with

the agency,..

Have you read

this letter:

Do you understand it?

Mr. Wartman, what was your position

in 1963 and 1961:

Did you have any expestice in records

and filing?

---

## Page 22

10 - 31-59 Cable

JFK EX. F 534

Moses Embo any telegran to Des

again descuating

dafect.

Would you read this cable.

What compoment It HQ would have

receved this information and

when?

Why.

---

## Page 23

201 Orgening Form tir Lot.

CIA page number 788.

Would you read this page?

Why CI 515 opened?

Why Rare Egorter opened?

Why long thy time persed betwee

receipt of Dos cable t

file opening?

Die man lond

Why

restricted!

Why he on middle name "Ne ty"?

turnstation

what does

"AG" mean?

Vid cA segulations comes recond-beeping

for americans defectrig to s.11.

AG

additin point out to we.

---

## Page 24

Index caide

CiA page 787

What does star iles Oowould!'s

201 number indicate.

HTLINSUAL CORdA

943+744

What essa HTLINGUAL?

"Whit CA comporent ramit.

What was comporent referred to??.

special Prizets

On top card pithat does C/PROtEs

RE incon!

on 7443

On midble randy whit dos WATCH

Why would Egastes's mans be onpard!

---

## Page 25

Whet does

Caked on p. 941,

CI/ PROJECT/PHI

Cables

He tonc, dated +0-10-63-818 74838

F-516

Why fee senry Occald?

Does plays desisty. a fit Dould?

Yes,

Drea cable reflect ble

sent to pric

et 7 ged time!

Dissemination Cable, 10-10-63

He to unsatis

Description cobrespond to FY6, H19

cable to me dated 10-10-5'3?

If not, is to does descrig tion fit I

2nd pare.,

does this sla

sive middle moanse as 'Werry?

Sues this sable indicate sent at 12 gettin

---

## Page 26

I 1763, Did CA's MC station engage in scord lan

peral hindi see.

ma.s.?

Mandacit

Please defes to a document in.

ya former CIA. employee in

recollection of LH0 la trip

t mc?

Have you ever seen able document before?

Dre this curatel reflect

the

When hates f24o taken?

Where are they?

If not, way not?

Tapes

Do you know weller LHO's voice

in Mexico!

How do you know?

Peat of to

pet.

Possession I

56577?

How did you set lapes?

Whose from?

---

## Page 27

Where seat. to?

Ever listened to recordings?

Aw know reading?

Nant knee WHo was?

Who sle would have beer i had

control of them?

644-17.6

FBI Meno, 920, 23,63, pran. J. Elgar

stones to Janse f. Ronikay

JFK#F

Plisse kand

@ do-par, accurate?

Here tapes sent to sallows?

197

1T7-

Nor. 23 sable, Me stat. to HQ

Ever seen it?

sitesting

Becond pose, was voice songston done?

Do you bnow whether any tapes of CHO wee distinged.

Was sither of tapes does tores.

---

## Page 28

p-201 = Cable dated 91o0,23,1863,

Ever seen cable?

dow it appens sacate

that yan tapes were erased?

accurate

Any subequent tapes found?

Of dog by is hear?

Fison Win Sintts safe?

---

## Page 29

How do you explown fact that

this cable seconds incred

ducription of LHo, wake cable

JFK 516, sent 3 tire so hers, at

ded nes contains cossect

was cable astually sent at later time?

Memorandum from

pp: 3368-3369

There you lean been preciousty?

Did deh reefing odds.

Bolton hine refers to Mary story

What is Hervey sloty?

Fore por then

re terumentoo

on with other person refoised

to in document

---

## Page 30

JFK

#F-e

524

Memo 20 Fel.6'%, dscussing

documents evailable in

¿Ho's file?

Ever seen, 'Yes

author? Nemself

at whose instruction, writter".

Store

''documents lencribed

a not

available in 201 file missing.

No, at orious deles.

Why were they not in the file?

handialler

loves let hard corner, word

"Please keep loosely in the

last volume of Coweld's 201.

Whos wrote? tain

Wly?

Why loosely?

Par. 1, What happened to attachment hic

---

## Page 31

CIA gp. 2105-2108

18 sapt...

The Warvey Cawelds

Read it

connection wilt the Agency!

Par. 2 as hour remember exact date?

par. 2b, Way cheet hid you check the Shown

Andess

"on night of asrass?

Who instructed you to recheck

Matin Index?

what items, integrated in record

oystem sins assassination?

sid you chick with this running

HILINGUAL prosana.

Pack. 24

, why did you chek wet

Division P

What is Drivesisp?

Want is an " firmal dest second?

in par.2d.

---

## Page 32

Par. Ze, how did you determine.

that not 05

Personally chile on LHO?

Exes checked BDI?

Ever chech variations ta;

Lea Harvey.

name

Pan Zj, what was purpose of

It stake

Par 2K, how were you able to?

determine that you completed

What happened to "Arief informal.

nole"

Fastsentence, troup do you know

results communicated to wa

Was your note the bacis?

---

## Page 33

Par 3, who told you anitar check?

made with foreig, divisions?

How Is on know results cores

negative?

Is do told you?

Par 4. Why LHD not debrifed?

life in finch, not ifter

visited by westerners.

fer.5,

What is

Inter-Ageny

Source Register?

In DDO

Each check?

Of not, why not?

Cour check other agenty's

re Its as agent?

far, 6."

201 file oposed on basis of recupt

Pfirst 75 document, I.FB1, 2 DOS,.

ass 10-31-59 cable.

---

## Page 34

Why had AS info not been included

in Litoio... 20) before day I

assasso.

Wry satas

desseminated

before inclusion in 201 file?

our do you lo Nables

Pas.?

maniacept

Read para. in document

too Do you reconcile you statemen

→ still feel

in far:? with document,.

resending cipetence turgency

pas. 8.

resent utan. Wereoreve

140s. 201

Who. present.

---

## Page 35

Ile

(to the pent demon approud)

Did the CiA obtan

the name anyone

other than

Me.

Welle

who.

ach luken

saw Yor

lathed

with

Сива

?

after

subspent to the.

_CIA

did the ciA learn.

anythe

Jack Duen

else abont..

po CIA

ples, sources

2, or ollerase

---

## Page 36

Does CiA have an

infamater linerong

Gad Auly a his

associates sperfecilly

ash Me: Lewis McWillie

to CIA - Grafia plota

agonist (astro or any other

plots.

shots againt Castro?

pursuant to is in a

did you nie" it

info..

I pissible link

between

ally tou assocater

with CIA

-opa plot

-OVER_

spersically - Cubella-In Wilhei?

---

## Page 37

Cmy problem auntes

with respondin

to W..C.

re:

---

## Page 38

any invest a into of checks on

If not, why not?

Wher

What was relied upon for Ms Cone's

pfidat to WC on

"ZA agento allegation

anyone wh Maurice

Rawere Brahop?

Talked weth anyone it CA concerning your testimony..

5 minutes to expand, clarify,

ete.

For the record,

On babalf of HSCA, thank you

---

## Page 39

For: Chuck Bays

ASCH ortices

11112345

---

## Page 40

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

