# 180-10143-10157

## Page 1

180-10143-10157

.. JosEph H. LAnigast

NOTES.

hear Mandiant

attics on 8191/78, 10:15

letter:

pared pits hite hair -glasses

diator of licurity,

tression faunt for ]

was a VP for Intertel!]

1151e prand CIA

till'

Hirty?

11963- two roles.

prial adistant to C/3A3

workeal with Harvey

* D.F.

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Date: ASSANITIZED

2003

180-10143-10157

---

## Page 2

also im Mid - East

did front bain

except in cott sung,

EI-heading it for

a microcosmofagency

liaison. @ FBI.

Knew Harvey in FBI,+

understan

protect e

penetration, peris

infint gas to

SAS cam be SA

---

## Page 3

3

Ep::a.

flirt pati paula.

while Still exploiting

mpo got AmmuG.

§howsht him back to l1s

fleet it aunties,

I NiP-Ilate 620243.

before to defects shitey

---

## Page 4

4

"They wer

CUIS (E-2) changing

over 62+63.

of training

andprogres

ENIP-Jinception

MUG- up to date

aldo readied info foror

ill sounces- othe

stations, ete:

he bein existence when

carolinated but part

access cept through 5.]

---

## Page 5

5

minimal contact t

CIS - "pretty much inchepen

Mixe exputs estracted

certain I tige for

became C/SAS/CI cant

remember exact dates-

gradual movement after

= toursoverseas

Honeys special assist

lose friendship, @ Hame

back to FBI.

days fret

compartmentzed

Ins in Marinest spoke

at time of mess Yoticial

---

## Page 6

¡was able to gos to

vLUl

thinks it untiny.

stomach.

never found any indication

as organization? Capable?

"offy"vable but doubtful

too eaky, canelles

+ u that salous

---

## Page 7

7

mediate but inproving

recruitment attempts.

[MEXi?1 60-65?

indivialu

position

Roiz

a denter name

no successful,

QJ/WIN-ERRIFLE-

means nothing to him

---

## Page 8

8

MUG-

but indication that

even existed

MUG -

mall C.A

all cas anone of people

activities.

helens fit it stalled

files - nove that dealt

LHO ON JFKassn

11/22/63-1

sando predately causical

response.

manfidas elle held

went traces.

a drople a legated

---

## Page 9

to babysit tete.

HidAlgo FloRes, JIViviAn Berry, a

Joe Piccalo

or recall of ap use in

maxi - but the did have

a host of infor not

lose enough, to people in

nexi ast NiPluat

Miguel Roche ]

farest fite player.

no recollection of

tion posts.

uz Bish

Bishop fetch could be a

---

## Page 10

10

should have know of

pitiations luct doesnt

giceps

no knowledge of Calen

cue try retired

doesn't think Whitten

had to do a neX

zandz

shou

---

## Page 11

Phillipst

picp.cif

avane of W. reggon.

dant assiste

Documents

CIA # 3709 shown.

(Sperate cable- initial

assesment

speaks for itself

B7ID

paro. E.

con

ommercial attacke-doesnt

he thinks, the con

nan he talled to earl

attache.

3711

para. H

heis Langost. (p)

Todaup.

debriefing approx.

---

## Page 12

12

trea to get dea ob

Do get state to presse

to give him to

notes

in head-did no

test tha defereline

suspect circums it

taping.

reports would have been

o interes dee tole

to know basis

has never heard of debriefing

report # 40.

i big thin go as

---

## Page 13

13

but honestly

stand for.

DO required a special clearanc

Talk D

Cannot remember any-

ing done on GHO case.

CIA

retention would have meant

they were working on it.

3670

' shootional

but d dant remembe prepared

probably was a debriefing

report.

D.D. wouldn't have retained

may have tried to treak ass code.)

---

## Page 14

WH/POlA - doesnt know

what that would have been.

sturgis he recollection al

rewiewed INWArE personnel for

contact put cuis oras

assumes. Hunt knew Sturgio

from Bay of Pigs.

3691 shown.

WIthinks probably did crete.

cara 1.

annot

recall what kunda

contacts .but would have

been what MUG told him

Louisa no recollection

follow-up?

mamo to CIS

---

## Page 15

15

false test enters tu

know what

point was

purious nam

example.

no knowing deception on

had there been more detail

would have been in memo

3695 showr

??

au recoricile? Opt w.e.?

ingleton tantate of

ut of vest.

---

## Page 16

16

15 waited optents tot

exploit muG.

[

talked these that mus ever

3699 shown:

surate it.

dont recall specifics but

would be way handled.

L.C. - still no recall of

particulars - she would

have been of interest t

in machine run-contacts

etal 5 would have written

a memo for 201.

no recall of crypt for

machine run

contactid? possible but no

specific memory

Rodriguez

VEgA.

---

## Page 17

17

female assets-Cuban-Mexi

no particular recall

3703 shown.

Stid write

second hand info.

never determ

inoAmericans I.D

lid - know h. Cfas ClA agent

polygraph-recollection

s that he was clean all the

way

3882 showm.

L.C.-

if he had dealt in WC he would

have given him canties meno.

doesnt know Rocco that well

CIA 1950-54 shown

---

## Page 18

18

"three prices of rifto signi

if he had been in mope

!?!

thinks W.S. would ho

done more - would hav

tried to interrogate the

interphen poly graph

at time would have been

big: enough to have called

bara more stringent inves

but at that time Mexi

not strong ow CI

suggests exploring Phillips

doesn't recall seein

the transcrieto - racks it of te

rejealous compartmentation

---

## Page 19

19

Stuould have thang

hat boats would!

umpe

knows of no instance of recruitment

to clea

rance.

3675

no ence is guy pitched

do it remember much about

-3712

---

## Page 20

20

3715.

would have do

1 unane attit agich

excellent cooperation

Operations marin Domestic

wester

Ol mociousnopen later

Des engaged in elanderti

iS.-not

gooo rapport a cooperation

@. FBI.

Info on sister should be

available from DODOU JAWAVE

never heard of black tape

AMROD-Inobells.

3''bit paragraph 2: - still no

---

## Page 21

21

366le

senate didat have cogy:

FBI called him

Salt AMLAsH insecure.

opposed ass'n on practical

grounds.

peng was untrustworthy

risks unacceptably high

C. knew

proug

and fatih a that or

AMLASH was turned.

doesn't know how much

Okrew-suspects ( suspected

never knew as fact ad that

any in group were @agents.

---

## Page 22

HUNT?)

??

?

22

meeting

slarba

ackao '63

did not think security, general,

was very good

people at SAS certainly

new AMLASH was an

ason plot.

discussed@D.F=knew

didit know of Hunt's tip to

spain.

---

## Page 23

1*3

CIlSIC-motells.

ho Lush propellat

m MEXI

and 2:40pm.

---

## Page 24

L

A//

Piccolo - good intel motess

I admmasat, good

atreclanch-

/ All had

set's t ther look

fa collatead ing to

abstratente a nute

A/' Pennoledge-

All pende accurate → reliable -

Mand infama

em.

above-avere ge intel- good.

assums in 7Crida -

last contact in 1965-

undi diredin - didasation tre

AS Itook AlI to El Salvada-

Ito try t arrange meetings col

evis perple

significant phis comer tave

gone to. Mexicon ded-

Aronun photos to

24.

---

## Page 25

aspenet to cents un'ed Aner

Who had contact

embasois

in Bere Crintis

never lead a TUMBLEWEED J

Knew WIN SCOTT quite well

photos in tunt, Cala

doles 't know

well- news heard thats

In descrips in dissem labls -

anti- cata templar men o

Inti-Castro

penetrated

by cuis-enced in

Miami-

les remembe ALPHA-Le,

25.

---

## Page 26

Manolo Rajegroup am pendratin

recalls that won new bordel- crod

Lave been bett screened

Dave Phelleps- 7Pops - not well rad

a tara link- too treating -

inexperienced

3670 - docon't recall

3713-

All nevs said angeting about

sturgie -

no me went /HiS Joken went

o see e

Frank INU -

news" of

Lad little to do wy Anglit

doean t Inno what greater hera

J. A a Windeot know each othe well

does to are Pill co.

neve Leanda 01/516

26.

---

## Page 27

20/3659 Ruiz - refreshreclection

V21/3070-

o waterst

Did you write

@ Wartcodestdidyou]

[breakit]

(3

what is thereference

WoswaldPeportNo.no

What. is SI

Black Tape 201 -

(WhaT iSLAMROD-150 3714#3

whatabout Proenza

seenio

3669

CE RUSUTETI

connectior

22/3666 -1010castEspinosa

whenwas

K what werehis

matter

→ = allegations

who was Tota"

See 3667 3AGl-Werthis

mea

3668

-top

- you conside

it unassasplot-

27.

---

## Page 28

succesful

Gry suit ments

8

annandle y

Shir

/ Swenson] Interview

1 Release Letter

2.:

Mandate Purpose

3.

name, addess, age, occupation

" CrAposition in 196s

other crA positions until retirement

6: what is WH/SAs/er-itsfunction -

your function

dIS WH/SA/CI same as wH/safer

111963-1964

How much warknownabout cuis

by ciA - how was into gained

al anglerouledge d potiassas: carried out

danie

I Familiarty o/crypt Amney!

a who washe

b) when did he detect

c) w/oletinto

1) now signitican

I where is he nou

+ who handled him tinwhat

6 r2er

a) What was your responsibility

visa vis AMMUG-I- for how long

h) what dashis oprationaluse

28.

---

## Page 29

h) 1) - was he used to attempt

penetration of 161

3)

did ciA have penetration

agents at Myste at

time LHo visited- who-

i where is fist were crypts t names

9

A Did UH/sAs have a "domestic

exploitation section" - what pupose

COMA 1602] Is this acurate

3709

'concerning Ail

37104E -Accurate.

al who was comm'l attache

6) any other pol

37,11

bri

d6-

what docs did All

LHO

any pertain to

37714H-Idicates LANGOSCH-

Mwas that you

b) how long did you debrief Al in

c) where twwhom

4) how did you recordinto - how was

it seen to citte

3712

8 see 3713 15 - did All Know FSturgis

1) Did Sturgis work for you

29.

---

## Page 30

5 May men

Titanon

her

11may64

6) 3713-#7-who was Amorph-1

what Kind of into disheprovide

did Amniplknow sturgis- was

(Amnipssturgis

3691- Did you write this

Al How many times did Litovisit

embassy

Did you see the Mx cy photo surveillan

photos

02H0 - when

who was nuisa Calderon- whatis

Ler significance

Did All ever indicate that Lito had

actual contact w/ DGI

Q. Do you believe in light of mere

3695 - ge

@Is this memo accurate

page- now wa

operal exploitation of Al,

+ respassibilities to we

sitisfied

7May64

3700

130 Did you write this

3649

why the interest in huisa Calleran

was she ciA agent

was access obtained to referenced peopl

30.

---

## Page 31

@ amyspecd reason for not

370}

giving report in @tA form

@ was this verbatin from a

tape recording- what would

happen to tape recordings

3704(3)

top - Did vegaseehito

Is it accurate vis aris granting

of visas- see p 3707

Regelio Rodrigues, What were

his DEl responsibilitres (solas?

@ 3705 - was iterer determined

if luisa was contrated by

refren ced American - cohois

the American

Silvia Duran- Casaste Dalto

was sheciA.

3706-- Did Roccaspeak to A/1

ACFLUTTER-

was AlI

asked abort.

LHo-cotat

was the response

aJare6415/3682

-O Have you eur seen this

3684- ever see this- is it accurate

3687

@ Do you know whe willers didn't

31.

---

## Page 32

Toyo anti e ilitate

OfCIANSSOC

1636

Thow was itfiled

73675

Ru12

Didyoukrow

Le was Verrana's

Lousin-

warteDGl-

Discover any connectio-

everesied to

investigate

CALDERON

renante toak

3717

1P 1950-1954 "Efowerset

ever seen.t

who is Carlos Blanco

Teresa Proenza-unis

3719

Did you get a report on

her-

whtidom.exp/.

was sister contate

32.

---

