# 180-10144-10071

## Page 1

180-10144-10071

Raked a

DECRET

Do B. 3500. 28- 0hi0

CIA bas no operations re

Webster -

heller

Willes & Bundy dated iS CrE

Was employed

as plasties exput t

the Rand Denelopinest lap of clashe

0 hia

dant enlisted eleclines specialis

in US Tang

Trombed to USSP

the Gonna alibili

17 Oct 59 affeciall rentineed hi

U.S. Citize lif

11111331

SECRET

180-

10r44

---

## Page 2

3114/78

No file upering reque

doc. 10/23154.

Webster, Robert E

dated 10/17.20/59-

SECRET

3111141

Sis sheets s nurepapu articles ploude loving injo

- Nikete made a sells of tape to monow during Na-

Extebitior..

- Rebutte disappeared 'on strip" or 9/10/59 where the haed Corp.

puerinel were scheduled to have More ow.

- reputedly reaveneed A. S it. OSt T:4,959. Xee uprimed ly

Jove thet if he mpted Sw. at, he would it be able it leave country

10/6/59 So Felgian, Moscow to sey State ; Ri: Recupt of Ketter

from letter stating his desir to remain I S.L. to le? were

Ent. waable to determine Is whereabouts in Yesingred

10/8/59 MFR

locate Kehate; recept of (abtue) Ent. Latle

-AIC Clevelaid liked whether N was carying out icketers book

Jor cIA which ladst been cordinated wIthem. He newed that

this was at lase i to bed ofou knowledge. I had not beer befed

was wakrowe to etle DOP A ODofeces:

de will cheelt w/ Mers Wicketner o keyle to produce a me complete

pusture of W

SECRETI

10/0/59 MER, Ly Bree 2. Sell, 05/525.; R heater

- getter advised Tapich Called Roxan 1I Aesey intreet in I

- Os file - no Cerace; was a 00/e int. is I in late tray 59, het.

N wret costacted by o0 C pin to tripe to USSe

- CI/OA celes - no мена.

---

## Page 3

3/14|78

3111142-

R. E. Kehater (cont.)

SECRET

- 10/21/59 Office Items, C.5. Kittenberg, Cleveland to CHef. ACAs, Atta

Suppst B. (horey) ; Rs: 2.1. Hunter case at recent Mackle seichig

Conferace in 10/20/59 - Our org. as no inteet in matter:

-10/22/59 affece temo, Rettehug, Murland Kenduct Agent t Cuf, Katact

2)e this file doing aytig Me Wis defection?

b) If at, do they intemplate doing aything?

c) Khat wulk the fice have dose of wist mermally?

Kitterday called meet day i respace that they here taly what wits

in newspapes ie h; (not try cosperative).

11111333

-10/30/59 Affece Mias, Relaking to Crowley; PE: Keat of WU corruatin

/ H. J. Raed iC As. Webette

Аденц. Intuest u

- 10/46/59 Memo, Sheffeld Eduardo to Dei,, FBI, RE:| Hebete

May- Inse 1959, hours de wasit costacted puor to dep. foUSSR

In ew of W3 unpl: w/RIC, phse: Yourad aay unfo stacked in

wurstig. of W.

1943/59 dao. on Vera suchenko, W's gulfuend

SECRETI

10/28/59 Report In N :

Wwas gira see cliarace 615/59 cut were had access to military info.

---

## Page 4

3/15|48

SECRET

R. 2. Hebiter (cont.)

(eoxt.)

on 10|19/59

Report of terrew of N ly Snyde, in presence of M.T. Rand & ter.

Bookleader at the OBVIR in Most. - recons for defection; aleo signed

V

SECRETI

Brark (Curley) - It indiestion (Ame 3/22/60 Cleveland Pess atele)

of W's dese to ret. to U.S.

11111334

3/25/o OM Hettaking to Tras

- Kand contacted ly Ns fatter to red in ungung Whome

- Land induated he would catect SD i S00. Eno. Mack. to see what could

he done.

- I quited Snyder of US int Moon as saying the would be ne affectty

sue his broken as laws, he should be able to eater IS ne aller of reces

I undeated may he value a bunging I. tick for mtell Mas oas

several Offer Memos At Ns uteuet i retions is Metuk to US

12/20/60 tele Rurer of Office of Security file, S Dreflected (beldes

does. r. Nis defection de follourig:

-5/1/60 delegan (72691) Am inal Moscow to SD : RE: Viet of

ho that aftercon; interrewed. y senty i Consular offuer;

acked for adver on not. to US..

- states that Ws fatte should de adered to execute maa ptlin i als forwaed

notarized letters of mertation for self i M. I. for N'S un in makey

ser end here it the cite late erties no int

---

## Page 5

3/15/78

SECRET

Vol. II ...

Vol. IIII

R.E. Wekster

3111144

Vol. I contaias third agencydoes Me follows:

FBI Reports ..

2 Rept. of AF Memor

4. 5A doc. - 112159: 3/22/60; 414/60; 6/8/60

11(11335

- PRQ-Part I Undated; sometence after return to US

nitron to set. to US@ 5116162

- Uadated Beno, Tar B. hau, Marent: Conuatin staff Affece of Jug to

1 Kudy Balaban, Sell Attechig

Repst of Court Neverment of P.E. Lebater - Awessed In 1/23-24/62

- Repent heed is paych testing

- Attach. to Lett Report 21345 - "List of hoans Retention Sons from S Velte

3h4 Agery = 1 FBI Report of 118/62

Office Bemas from Clevelaid a Raid ! Wis ret

Incespondence det. I a famely

Coustiy: USSR

ILA Lafo. Report

Suby: Keaugred Select le Cret of Poly. Recites (NIIPP)

Date of defo: 1/18/59-4/1862

Dese.iDrg.ofs0v.Plastees tel

Report # 00- B. 3232798.

1D/00 Case 3824.6

-SECRETI

Toat report of trign Feed AW, IF systens Commard, ¿ CIA

---

## Page 6

3/15/18

11(11336

R. 5. Webster

SECRET

3111145

6/4/02 Requent for Appinal on envedigatie Aetion

70: CT 10p. App. 2 Supp.Du

See Supp. Dw / OS

RIT. Balabar

Reque: Dorsonal tret Securty Appeal

Spe hee of Me: Detreping t etali Str. Malette data

Veran leg. to debrief Suly re expenne as a rendet of 3ll. purt.

i during defection to NSSR @1/10/59

6/22/62 Meno, DD Secuty (devet i Oper. 34p.) to Chef, SRDI.; Atta Balate

- A.PCS.A may the grasted for use as descued; suby is net to replesent

limulf vor to he repleted as as emp. of CIA. If charge i status is desed.

nw request should he made

His a letter to ped ted test and are it a See.

tuade for us of safe house appot 14 days. Chageable to Rijeet

DOA.

12 Memo: Request o Hardurting Analyses

7/12/62 Lelemeno.

Tittergh, to ES. USSK Roley , att

deta neoded on So perratties

1/16/62 Peonal theatry stalened of tekiter

7118/62 4ema,

7 Chef TS B/BARB to Wief A /P/SK; RE.

Handouting Analyses de pe eg. of 1/6 SECRET.

---

## Page 7

3/15/78

11111337

SECRETI

Robert 2. Helster.

3111146

1124/62 dateurer Report y Di Chas l Boirer Ipp ; Re

Backersuad info. of N Whit stay in S. V. Lset.to US

?'s: le this mes sw. contielled? Aigly ndekely

If mot, could le decome so? Prily, if theings dont go well in future ? de

ie fered sutable finereal uraid

J/CA/PROP/OB ;

RE: News on 5o0. attetuder

811/62. MFR de

a shadow sh3

tora fedes

Watte additional

notes

RE: Nese in interogation which cact

8/30/6.2 тело,

BR/CI/Rs to SK/6/support; 04: Photo Ideat

V.0l. II

I. buttice of Kefe Story of REW - Complete chron

socioloqual, we. conditions, puels

II. MuSe 24o. SA Pealites Pealiules TV, ans, mail, medial tratrat , vote

T. Burg. info on SeV Zersaletier kasnt N. 159.62

IV hasesment of REW.

SECREM

31d Ageney dold

256 a - 3/12 523121/12

316162-5124162

---

## Page 8

3|15/18

11(11338

Vol II

V

Kondrat' yevskiy.

SECRE

R. E. Webster

3111147

4/16/43 Demo, Balabar to Chef R/6.; Er: Benefing of R. eliter

I. July debriefed y undersigned logether 11/00/lortact Dir. i

AF reps. i2 Риваник лика 1/23/62 .

Balaban- Kudy Valeatens

seisued Thane

= Robert staling

= Major E. I. Zutia

= A1. F. 6. Jaycoke

00 affece, Fittestugh

AFD, Dhis

Kennended that suly che drought to Dal for detailed deeping

Asangements for 2nd detreping made sy. S

July stayed at Mannot totel, Key Budge, during 9115-28/62

Екние А: Jut of stal personnel who pastipated in alreeng

6: rotations made by Baleen during vauous phase of diti

I Surecy aguent, dated 116162, signed ity suly

Д :

I stunt of truttfulness, signed by suly.

i shout sting. on Sul :

Refe. to. Oswald

5/11/64 Meno, Lagleton to DiL, FBI re LHO

- Wacked copy of nones, adduces i phones 's. re SU. - te addies

in tenurgued of her Prizentser in same o sinles to t's alders

Hau.

12/5/66 MER , fron

The "Am Deletor to USSR

o/ attacked chion. ta W

---

## Page 9

3|16/18

3111148

R. 4. Hebeter

SECRET

55/10/67 Memo,

/ Is. lief Atte Office) to Di. DCS; RL: RSH)

- New led no intact will sace 1/63 when we compted handling of lin

under Care 38,246

4 FBI Reports 10/2164 - 2/13/64

INS his sheet - 1969

11:11339

SECRET

---

## Page 10

sebrufing

RE.W.

SECRETI

3111149

Defection

How ailed by Sove? Tep thiskin ligh got officials (168)

Are when in Huaig implynest?

(3/60)

Ay estat w504 utell? After attempto to retur to U5.? After set to US.

Contacts at Sov. Ent. in Morcow

- SA

- CTA

PRp-Pt. I - cokey; whea (st det.)?

11111340

Did debrefig induate any deer. by Agary to use him

SECRET

---

