# 180-10077-10021

## Page 1

180-10077-10021|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/1/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10077-10021

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

005063

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: FONZI, AND GONZALES

TO :

BLAKEY, ROBERT G.

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/04/1978

2

CROZIER, ROSS

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: BOX 105. FOLDER TITLE:

v9.1

IT 50955

DocId: 32247163

Page 1

---

## Page 2

005063

MEMORANDUM -

TO:

FROM:

RE:

February 4, 1978

G.. Robert Blakey

Fonzi & Gonzales

Addendum to Memorandum of January 16,

1978 re CROZIER interview

During the course of the initial interview with Ross

Crozier, former CIA case officer for the Directorio

Revolucionario Estudiantil

(DRE) whose primary duty

station was the JM/WAVE base

decided to withhold certain key questions concerning

was

cover names of other agents until the validity of

Crozier's candidness and apparent cooperation could

be ascertained.

Subsequently, on January 18th, Gonzales called

Crozier and

asked him if he could identify the true

names of three individuals: "Bishop," "Knight" and

• (Bishop is the name used by the Alpha 66

contact Antonio Veciana observed with Oswald; Knight

was the name given to David phillips by E. Howard

Hunt in his book Give Us This Day; and L

the

true name of a CIA officer in Havana:) When

first asked about the names, Crozier said he believed,

that Bishop was the name used by

David Phillips. Knight, he said, was a name which

E. Howard Hunt had used, but he was less certain

_ he remembered as a former CIA

Havana. However, Crozier said, he was

scheduled to have lunch with a former CIA associate,

also retired, the following day and he would check

with him. (We have subsequently determined that the

former associate's name is

(spelling

not verified), who also worked out of the L

JM/Wave station.

On January 20th, Crozier was recontacted by Gonzales.

At this time Crozier said he was now almost certain

that David Phillips had used the name Maurice Bishop..

(Crozier had not been given Bishop's first name by

us) ; he still believed, but could not get confirmation,

that E. Howard Hunt used the name of Knight; and he

was sure that

was the real name of a CIA officer

in Havana.

-more

NW 50955 DocId: 32247463 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2.

On January 31st, Crozier was recontacted by Fonzi and

asked again about the cover names.

At this time Crozier

said he had given additional thought to the names and

was more certain about the validity of the information

he had given us.. Now, he said, he was almost positive

that David Phillips used the name of Bishop. And he

was still fairly sure, but not certain, that Hunt used

sure about

Bishop, he said, was because he had since recalled

working

at the JM/WAVE station with a young CIA

associate ("clean-cut Navy officer type") whose cover

name was Doug Gupton. Crozier said that Gupton was

David Phillips' assistant in the "pw" (psychological ?

warfare) section.

Crozier said he now recalls discussing

at times field and agent problems with Gupton and

Gupton at times

"Well, I guess Mr. Bishop will

have to talk with him.

sayiny, Crozier said: "And, of course,

I knew he was referring to his boss, Dave Phillips."

Crozier said he had reaffirmed that in his mind recently

when he had lunch with another former CIA employee

who had worked directly under

Gupton. Crozier said he doesn't recall Gupton's true

name but assumes he is still with the Agency.

Crozier said another possible source for confirmation

of the Phillips-Bishop cover name was the CIA employee

in charge of

Radio Swan, the Agency's propaganda outlet

on Swan Island. Crozier said he doesn't recall his

name but assumes he is also still with the Agency. He

also worked directly under Gupton.

Further investigation is planned

Recommend initiating Agency interview request re

employee who used the cover name of Doug Gupton in

1961-62 and employee in charge of Radio Swan at same.

period.

HH 50955

DocId: 32247463 Page 3

---

