# 180-10142-10308

## Page 1

180-10142-10308

THIS COPY IS NUT

FOR RELEASE.': 11110011

Leste Wizelman

Box 24

Folder 3

3GC File

E. He Hunt-Summary

3/10/78

The IGG

file covers the period fcan July 4, 1965.. to

June 19, 1972

The file contass the following documents and intermation:

DA comract between the egency and s.H. Hunt, eltective

JuLy 4, 19605.

$ 19,580 per annum Employs Hust as

"contract emonyce". a years

@ A memo fur OGC trum Chiet of Contract personnel Division;

dated August 3, 1965 Subject: Retention of royalties bya

contract Employee

stages

that Hunt "well apparently duelop

Requests apirien regarding retention of

royaltie

Hurt may earn

B- memo fur Chet of contract Personnel avision from

office of General counsel, dated Aug 12, 1965. le retention

at royalties.

"We belleve that Hunt is entitled to retain such

royalter without an offset against his Agency salary " "Wehave

seen aduised by mr. Gene steuens, wa/suppact, that

ERREDANHCAEES

over does not include the cale. of a writer;

@ memo fram Chief, Covert Clams Branch to Chief, Contract

Isannel Druisein, dated Sept 3,1965. Gitie recommended delettonof

ftset paragrapn in Hunt's contract. Acrowledges the OGCopinion

ach determined tunt may retain without Agency salary atset

sy future royalties earned as a resultat his literary elforts baled an

le fact cover does not include role of a writer.

180-10142-18308

---

## Page 2

11710742

2- Hunt summary

B- memo team contract employces Account section to

Chief, Westorn Europe Division, dated Oct 13, 1965-Reports that

there is no recacd of recaipt. at duty status Repocts tuc

must since his EOD y Juby 1965.

- Reports are required in order

to maintáis his leave account in accordance with the terms

of his contract.

memo on botton of page ta compensatios

from chief of suppurt, we Divisions"fer

oversation with

no Thomas saramesunes, ADDR, there wall bene

Duty status Reports

aubratted on Hust. This should be

ised as the autharity is cantique his pay without

bee reports.

88.

- @memo fur Dep. Directur fur support to Acting Chief,

estern Europe Division, dated Nou 8, 1965

Hunt has

quested relet on houng costs. " 4, que to the operational

nsituity of Hunt's assigament, his request fur celief on his

using costs was handled by me thomas kacamessie, on

_sept 1965, me. Karamessines, approued his being reimburs ca

La 75/a5%0 bases far. the excess allowable costs up to,

ut not to exceed, lo Do above his quarters allewance.

O memo, dated FeD 1, 1974 re General Gaylor's recollectruns

regarding his knowledge of the writings of mr. Hunt and any

fficial who might be quare of the accumstances of any agency

involvement in that effort. a. "the became aware that Hurt,

while in wh, was accomplishing a steady flaw at say books, and

hat security approval was not being requested on the

manuscripts before submissión to publishers.. Gen.: Gaynor

duised that anget he raised the issue up front" on several

---

## Page 3

11110:43

-3-

accasions. The reactun he recesed to his raising the usu e

was that "Keep your stinking nose out af this business?'

He stated that he was lead to believe that me Helms desired

to improve the image of the intelligence_ protess icin

and thee

Agency and that Hunt's books were a part of the program

to do so. He stated that he was never told outright that this

was the case, but the responses he recelved lead him

to believe shis was the case.

He suggested two peuple who might clear the issue-

say Rosa and -watter Pfarzheimer

"both as whom were involved

- the "mage" materials." "Hestated that Pfurzheimer seemed to be

ware of all the details - on on up to date basis - of Huntis departure

rom the egenty to jain the public relation frim, to the degree

hat sen. Gayner gained the belief. that Hunt was merely

noving his dest outside the building, but being paid by the

gone

source as befure.

$Iso

Feb 6, 1924- memo - On Feb 4, 1924-Parzheimer wa

terviewed. " This internew was undertaken

- anerfert te

-termine:

if mr tunt had acted in any capacity in cooperation

ith counter Intelligence operations, When pfurzheimer discovered

ent had wetles On Hazgodow Duty; he called karamessines.

lal recalled that from the nature of ma karamessines

acton that he had uncouered a sensitve matterat senier

¡ficer concern " Within 5 minutes, Helms called pfurzbermer

ho remembers the substance of the conversation being "fir Christ

axe walter, the is the first bock to comealong and say

---

## Page 4

1111074-1

-4-

omething good about the agency." 'why not leave the Goddam

thung alone," mri l belieued that' Yelms or karamessines

could answer the questuo of whether Hunt had Agency

sponsorship for his booke: net. The memo states that itunt

was assigned to the office of the Deputy Director for Operation

in-Feb 1965. The bast book we published during 1961.

June 1965 - through sept 1966, Hunt was assigned to

as a contact agent:: 1906-3 books appeared.

1967 - 1 book, 1968, 1969, 1971, 8 1973-1 book yo

Abul 30, 1970- Hunt aitically retired as an Agency stuft

employee.

"The office of secucity records did net develup any

ndication that any of the Daud st. Juhn manuscripts

vere ever submitled for revrew in accordance with Agency

cagulations.

9- memo tor record- Feble, 1974 "Subj: Possible Ageacy

Sponsorstup. et the Dauc st John Novelsia

_A conferene

vas held with peuple from the I6 offre. " the speculation.

as entertained that me. E loward Hunt had, in fact, been under

Agency sponsorship.with the knowledge of mr. Richard Helms.

ahis preparatico at a series of spy nauels under the

aseudonym, David st toba at can be accepted as a reasunable

suppositica that mr. Hunt had some bighty cumpartmented

financial arrangement authorized by senur Agency officials

to write there books, then it is likely that this relationship

continued after mattunt officially retired." "minutes from the

stive of Legislative Counsel made references to a cuncern ot

jencitor Baker

over an alleged: financial relatunship betweer

---

## Page 5

11310740

-5-

i Helms and matunt which cootinued subsequent to meltunt's

sema! retrement. "'" Baker made reference to a payment

£ sume." 30,000 with the parenthetical comment that

I Helms would nut have that amount of muney from his.

wale hinds a Employee of IO staff opinioned that "if

be Agency had-spansaced the st John books, it was likely

bat mr tuat had so informed Senatur Baker.

B Intervies with Rayund Bocca - Feb 14, 1974 - Asked about

ancing of Hunt." Me Roccas respunded "on the record" that he

as"na knowledge of any such arrangements nor at any time wal

"party to aay assistance of or any requests for assistance

mr. Hunt. " Ventured opinion that" in all probabelity an official

quiescence on the part af senior officials might have been

luded rather than an affcial sponsershis.

@ interuew with chief, contract Personnel Divisen.

- FeD 1974.

stated that ".. although it was not common

cactus it was nut entirely unusual for bighly sensitive

ratracts

to be administered without the contractirig

ifcer being aware of the operational objective muoived."

@ interwem with former chief of Supert, western European

215160- 1985

Dale: 15 Feb 1974. Askedre Hunt's actruster in 1965

".. froes his recollection it was Hunt's habit to deal ankywith

e most senior officer quailable. " He was never briefed on the

upose of matunty passion.

---

## Page 6

- 6-

11610746

memo fue record, dated al Feb 1974, 1e 05FIce ot

inance Records- E. Howard trist."

Hunt-departed DeC.on 5 Bug 1965 and acqued

-0 0

bAng 1965, Hunt was paid through an account at the

An aperatunal accit was estabished fie mstunt

1th

ishere was no record of anyaperational.

couats aduances being processed through thü channel. mr.

se stated that this fact

dehned his cuncern. He feit that. t

2as inconceivable that mittunt coud have undertaken

pecational activity usthout some transfer of or accounting

* funds." To date, nusuch recordi: have been developed.

o reference to a project as protect digraph or operational

AN number bas been lecated. * AlLerpenses connected with

ll tuat identited to date were charged to the

tanua supporte A raven made of

station recorde narrot

dicated any "Developmental and target of upper tunity (DETO"

• "Other operational Activity (007)" fund expended

tac on behalf at mr dunt. there two accounts would

smally be. the source of operatunal funding not charged

jainst a specific project activity:

"Areven af travel vouchers

so falled to dentity a project. There was a voucher fur

trip tope d seturn to

Jan 5-8, 1966. The voucher

ates in the space provided for the atatur of the travet order

ember-"no travel order" treaceounting was approved and

gned sy karomesher-@norustficatien ar statemen" of purpose.

.. Yale noted mat the royalty offset waiver proulsiun amended

I Must's antract was, in his experience, somewhat unusual.

---

## Page 7

11110512

17-

The offce of finance Director stated that from his experience,

are karamessines wauld have delegated all the arranging of idetails"

urcaunding an assignment such as me tunts to me

le atfered nis sucerue "at what ne interpreted to ba reticence to date

1 mene for record- alfeb 1974 subj: watergate-

-Me

-cetred June, 1922, paur to retirement he

vas an afro-in the External Employment Assistance Branch,

retirement Actruites Divsica of the othre ut Personnel. He was tu assist

in fracing post-returement employment. He had been instrumental in the

pläcement it Hurt in the

nor to working fur Personnel, a

served with the

in the area dealing with the funding of

sojects. He had become familiar with actuter of

Huntwontle

tunt functuned on the

lActustes Staff.

, first came

contact with

company when he was attemsting to

endle the public relation effort of al

Agency activity

Down as the

"In aresponse to a questun as to whether or not executive level

terest was still being shown in har Hunt's pust-employment

cement, bars

recalled that Helms, then Direltur, was listed

a character reference en me Hunt's resume and Helm's signed

letter of recommendation: to the

Ica an Hunty behal'".

contact was maintaned with nattunt at the

f0. 0n

continuining basis, because mr

now interested in Dr.

int for possible referrels fok ather Agency retreess), He also.

---

## Page 8

11110243

ünderstood:

there: was

interest in the

La, and that Mi. thunt. became instrumental in

discussing several aspects of the

l-operations la his

capacity as an officer af the cumpany.

matuat. contacted.

fan several occasions requesting retercal

seticing agency employees with speefic qualifications--after Hust

a joined the white House.: Recalled a request. for an indudud

wing skills in the area of locks and In surrept tou entry.

was

apressun that the duties uoted wouid include

e monitorag of a listenag deuce in an undisclosed rocatica

ot also requested a cemmendatin of a security service

ganizaten to carryou? an electronic counter measures

suspected: the electronic countermeasures sweep

as to be

carried out a the offser of the committee to Re-elect

e fres

was asked if he ever referred anyone tu milard

sociates. He had

recalled. that at the time of Hunt's

signment to

thestatement duseminated fur consumption

itain the Agency

Is was not generally belleued. He was quite certain that during

is perrod bis affice handled no project fundung fir Hunt.

Ime Hunt's retuen to staff employment the projects and tunding

1cD stopped

In July 1965 were agan raumed.

aa Feb 1924-ereeting with

=- He thaught it was

ray passible telms & karamessines handled the Hustl

busines

theis own.

He didn't know anytbng..

DInterulew with furmer Deputy Chief uf Western European Divis un,

=da feb 1924. He stated the assigoment of mritent to the

"was handled without the benets t

---

## Page 9

=9-

11310713

the route pracessing procedures through the western European

isseun.: Hunt's assignment was coordinated and directed by

aramessines. He was unemare of any spectic project or

rget tur Hunt. Hunt produced pastie intelligence on the

duang this perad the officials responsible fur the offaal.

ponsible fur this effect within the western Eumpean Disino

se totally unaware of it

The maj. ot info he had about Hunt

is bearsay, far example, a comment war made by a mutual

quaistance

to the effect that Huntstated that while in

dred he was going to "play golf and write books."

personal opinion -that Hunt had no apecational functunacd

I simaly granted the apportunity to write books fur bus aun

sanal gara at guu't expene

02 memo fur the recard, dated 20 Dec 1973, conversatur

th ch

Laesk in 1964,65. He was told by

Eur * who had been tuld by karamessinies that Hunt was

be assigned to

las I

I,as adirected assignment by Hebms.

wauld not have twat.

After a couple

nths is; he was told that Hunt was going!

It came to him frum karamessines on Helms'arder

I was to have the phone

yout he would do authing

Itunt was to suboat adaistrative vouchers for

mbursement of his expenses & they were to be paid. He knows

I there wa no operatunal repartrag, tu indicate that Hunt was

ig anythiag..

Load told him that bedidn't know what

ot did.

---

## Page 10

11110752

I 22 FeD 1904- Search af Finance recaras to determine is a$3u, uno

yment to tunt that required no accounting, could be found.

bedTravel clams Er 1960-1972: Analyzed itunt's aduance

•Quat for yr in

and have determined that

33,500 was aduanced to am far travel and transportater

th one tro to Racu tarenew visal. One stem appeared unmual.

expendituce of 11,600 suca sensitue operation which was

proved for weieroff by me. Desmond Fitzgerald on iture1966

zoe strange aspect of the

assignment la

that all the costs were churged to the suppoct allotment

ithe: EUR Division which is not normal as

people are usually assigned to the project. Itisunusual

have a case afficer abroad for one year on an operature!

ssignment without bins incurring aperational expenditures.

@nema dated a may 1974, by chief,

re "Watergate

le Research• Final Repact.

Recalls that there were occarunal inquirre

Ancendents of

about the repotted presence al

Elettunt. At no time did tunt contact him. There was some info

197à cuncerning reported actuaties in i

_Ley Robert vesco.

o 290ct 1924 memo from Dar, of Security - "Leaue secords reflect that

the four week pay perred encing a3 Navember 1963 Mr Hunt

ik a total of ll hours sick leaue and no annual leave, In the

Lowing four week pay perlod., be took 3 hours sick leave

a a7 hours annual leave. We are uncible to further identity the

res on which the above sick and annual leave were taken

Travel records reflect that mr tunt cunducted no othcial travel

ang the month of Nou. 1963:"..

---

## Page 11

11/00.50

I memo fur record, 20 Sept 1934-by SiDe Breckinridge.

"Hunt's travelrecord shous official travel in September,

October and December, but none in November; all of this

travel was to New York. "

i states that we-

already know, as a result of responses to previous requeits,

that we have no recocds on sturgis that would show

similar informatus; he was not an agency employee.

"Securty praided us with a colums by Jaek Andersen, of

16 April 1924, in which he covered the Hunt-sturgis rumur,

aumissing it. A copy of the news columnis attached. This woul

suggest that; rather than polke photographs of persons

counded up and booked, the photograpbs in question are

candon snapshots of crowds. If this is correct there would be

no related police fingerprint records that could be checked

for verificaticin

a) memo fur Deputy Directer for administratin frun Diriof

Security

subj: SHaltunts Date 23 Oat 1974. Discusses

allegation degarding Hunt # Sturgis. "Mr Sturges was not

associated with the Agency in any manner in lovember

1963." FBI Liaison officer interulewed bunt on izoct

1974 and Hurt adused at that time that he had learned

of the assassination of JFK "an his car radio while be

warina leave status

-In the Washingtan scasea."

memo for the recurd, dated al December 1923, ay

_Breckinridge Hust war inthe Do Division and in Aug 1464

was assigned to the

Latfice. "I gave t a a

-possible press treatment that Hunt wa engaged indomeste

operations (something senator Baker pursüing) and that

---

## Page 12

11110752

us assignment to l

atter the electin could be presented

s gulag him time to cool ott. "

eckground. = 19 June 1922

Emplayed by cIn hear wew 1949 until his voluntary

reticement aa 30 apcil: 1970

1971 - served as an adusocto Nixon- Chiana trip.

"Subject # of curcent intereit to thel

Istaft

Dec 1950- assigned as Chief at Station

serued as Chier of possun there until 1953

-June 1954 to Feb 1257

untilearly 1960

June 1960- assignedto

Nou 1961= reassegned to the soPh

on Project - BayofPige

Staft

Jan 1962

to office of the ChiefLoDe

July 1962-

"to the DODs Research and Publication

Section in washragto

July 1964

"to ire DossI

Staff

Feb 1965

" office of the DOR LOperatunt Group

_June 1965- Seat 1966- Cuntract agent-

sept 1966 Chief af Eucopean

unt!

retirement 30 Apal 1920.

6 Nor 1920 - granted a

Aporaual for

use bit

DIFF

@

La June 192à - Inquiry of

Istuff on 19 Junelaza

revealed that this is a current relatenshe

subject's see file reflects that last, in the past, has been of

operatoral interest to masames Angleton.

---

