# 180-10142-10491

## Page 1

180-10142-10491

: Use alias, i case:

[GENE CA+]

Interview of

3/28/78, by han Hairduay.

"GENE CONI

stated that

she had been in Mexico from

and from 1965-1966

She said she was in

in 1963-

The stated that the was

replaced by!

inf

-]

LIED WALTH

Who said that

hadoriginally

goneto Mexico asa CI

staffer bit had ended.

anita sina personally

son, axerations

suchast thel

GENE CoN

said tap t

let no seen the release

Ti

6000281

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only "

Do Not Reproduce

101U2-0401

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

Send to DDO

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

Name Botect E Kandi

Address

City/State

Date of Birch

•social Security

Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Date

3/27/78

place LAngley

Telephone

MOI S_

Spouse_

•Children

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

Personal History:

a. Present Employment:

Address

Telephone_

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative(s) : Name

Address

b. Arca frequented:

c. Remark's:

Investigator

Date

HArdwAy

3/27/28.

FOrm •$4-B

0000288

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Interview of Robert A Krandle,)

'3/22/78 by han Hardway

Mr Krandle said that the

inderstood the release letter

and had no questions about

Mr. Krandlefsaid that he

had been assigned to Meciao

City from fid 19637to-mid

"de could notremember

the precise dates but thinks

that her was in Mexico.

sriar toflestember 19637

arrived in/september 1943;7

see.Au

Mr man years atiged

he calledit

sual.in

0000289

Cuts 7

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 4

if the

SECRET

that they wanted heavy

coverage on Cuban

targetson a priority

basis

Mirandle was the

called "third country aperations.

Shismainly.consisteo.oferecriuting

traiming and debriefing people

from 32a counties travellin

to Cuba Krandle also handled

three exite agents: one who

Lessons tondone ho

personiiel

Mr Krandle Laid that

he was aware of the Cuban

embassy surveillance

operation but snores no

thought?

and the the to geratien and

SEUNET

0000232

06200C0

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Duras as the deat

¡the Mexican Station wasa

remarkably compartmen

station

was fandicabout

it

Mr Krandle Laid that.

he had never heard of hee

Fanner

Oswald before the

assassinatia

Mr Krandle stated that

he does semenber seing

from the Cuban.

Embasis tephone apesation,

They

emple les

he was Deputy Mexica

Branch Chief is

said that after

Jatin clise.

retired a Headquas tig team

da:!

Chel: 5

retaine files: The material

was puton Microfiche,

0000291

---

## Page 6

I SECRET

MalKrandlesaid that

station diet

wasa "ver

chasactes.. he exudenyunusual

power.

stalion clie

the "bruite force approach" is

ahead the engling

mad bull Candli

Station

clict

said that

would brag.

about the quick retrival

that his system allared

him Kiandle said that

tendick le gand has it thats

did nas deign to commun

icate with hisdivision chief.

but went straight to the

masersed with

He said she was

bright

nighta dhary competant,

the station for thorighness

0000292

---

## Page 7

SEGNET

was the

chief of Cuban Operations

when Krandle arrived

in Mexico Afte Aboutone

month alter his assival

took ores

uptsyce Krandle said tha

hadmothing to do une

anclaperations

Krandle said thatche

believed that the support

people raw the Cuban

surveillance operation. te

said that

was the support chief

richie"

0000293

---

