# 180-10141-10444

## Page 1

180-10141-10444

Leslie Wizelman.

926110,8

JFK TaxTO

Folder 75

I tem. A.

EGC File

E. H. Hunt-Summary

3/10/78

SECRET

The EGa fle covers she pacad from Tuly 1, 1965. to

_June 19, 1922

¿The file condos the followag dauners and information:

O'asenast bermen me egency cind shittin, eitective

Employs Hunt as

@ anemo for ooc trum the os conest personnel Division;

dated August 3, 19605:2

subient: Resention of loyalter bya

contrace epiosce stares eat Hunt Mauli apparently cuelor

a coner as aweter,

eques opinion regending retention of 12

3- memo fur Chee of contrar lersonnel Dission frons.

Office of General covasel.

,aarea hug la, 1965 celetentio

ot cayatter.

"We bedieve that tunt o entitled ta rentia such

royather without an offset aganst his Rgency salary.

" "wehave

Hunt's

been aduised by ma bere stevens wilsuppers, that tener

cover dae dot saclude: she cole. af a unster, Hun's cove

facitatus sill anybe a light 00f at a retirech Foreign Sevite

itticer."

_A memo

fran Chief, Covert Claims Branch to Chief, Contract

'ersonnel Diusin, dated Sept 3, 1965. Ottie recommended deletion at

aftset paragraph in Hunt contrart Accouledges the Oucepinion

such determned Hunt may retain without Agency salary aftset

any tuture loyalties earned as a resultat his literery elforts baseden

the fart cover does not include role af awaiter."

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

1014110444

---

## Page 2

CHAS NOTSECTON TO

DECLASSIFICÄTION ANCIER

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

6- mena trans concact amalayes Accounts secton to.

Chief, western Surape Dusion, dated Oct 13; 1265 Repoststha

there is no secacd of recapt of duty status departs tue

ment since his son sTuyises Reports one tequired in ordef

to narataro his leave account in accordance inith the terms

re? Contract

mero on toness a page ta coopensation

conversatio. with

monar caramessines, a00e

there wilt batio

quaritted on Hurt. This should be :

wised as the authorty ss contraue : his pay without

toge repacts.

@memo fur Dep. Director fur support to Acting Chief,.

vestein Europe Diusian oated Nou S 1965

Hunt has

equested celet un hourag costs, "4,que so the operational

ensitiuty if thin's assiganent, his equest fur relief on his

usung casts uas banaled by me thoras karanessa,as

5seot 1965, mo karamessine, approued hii beagreeduescu

a a 75/1590 basis far the excessi allowable costs usite,

but not to exceed, to do above his quarters allowance.

@ memo, dated Fab 1,1974 re General Gaylor's recallections

bie regarding his knowledge af the watings of matust andany

official who might be quare of the arcumstances of any agency

involvement in that effort a. "he becane aware that tust,

whis in wh, was accomplishing a steady flaw of spy books, and

that.security.approvalwas.not..beingreguested.onthe

manuscrists. before submission ta publishers. Gen.: Gaynor

aduised that congrent he raised the issue "up front" on sevecal

0!C

---

## Page 3

: CLA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DICE WISFICATION ANIVOR

REY EASE OF TRIS DOCUMENT.

-3-

occasions. The cactuate recamen to his catsing the issue.

was that "keep your staing nole out at th business...

He stated that be was lead to belieue that menhems deprec

umprove the image of the intelligence protession" and they

Aceray and that Hunts hocks were a past of the progoam

ta do sai

te sisted that he iver never told outright that this

was the case but the ressonses he receried leach him

to believe shis was the case."

pace i'e..

He suggested rus penale una might clear the issue-

Bay loa and later freizheimer "both of whom were involved

in the "mage" caterals "He stated that PForebemer seemed to be

sars of allthe details -aron up to date basis of Hunts departure.

from the beney to saur the public relation fum, fatheregee

hat den. Gaynae gained the belief that tunt was merely

noving his dest

outside the building but being paid by thie

i9002

befure:

EMOLIVEE

8lso

Feb 6, 1924- messa- da Feb 4,1974-Farzheimer wai

iterwiewed " This interies was undertaken

_manaffert te

stormine if mr Huot had actedi any capacity in cooperatico

nth counter Intelligence, aperations, Whea efazheimer discoured

int had water. On Hazardow Duty; he called karamessies.

1al recalled thai froos the nature of orkacaressines

eacton that he had uncauered a sensitive mattecatsenior

fficer concern "Within s minutes, Helms called pfurcbermer

sho remembers the substance of the conversationbeing "ficbreist

axewalter.theis thefirstbodkto.comealong_aad.say

---

## Page 4

something good about the agency," why not leave the Goddam

thing alone mrie believed that Helms a karamessines

cutid answer she quested at whether hunt had Agency.

sponsorship fochis books m. The memo states that itunt

was assigned to the olive as the resury lurector foc operatin

in Feb ians me sat soo

Fune

196s through Seps i

19060, int was assigned to.

as a caricact agent: 19100- 3 booke apReaced.

2967= 1000k

a6, 09, 1971, 8 1973-1-booky

AEl 30, 1970- Hunt atually cobred as an Agency stati

erplajee " The 'attice at sauruy recordi did nut develop any

indication that angot the baudst Joha manuscreat

were ever submited fut nevew in accordance with agency

regulatzaas"

a memo tux recard- Feble, 1974 "Subj: Possible Agency

Sporsoetup at the Dauc sa Johan Novels.

A conference

was held: with -peuge for the taoffeetespeculation

vas enterianed that or-EHoward Hunt had in fact, been wodee

Agency. sponsorship.with the knowledge of mr Richard Helms

in his preparation at a seces af spunovels under the

pseudosyna, David satobai It can be accepted as a reasonable

suppositua that mutuat hadsome bigazy compartmented

financial arrangement authorized by secur Agency officials

to waite there books, then it is likely that this relationship

continuec after mrattunt officially retired," "minutes fromthe

ofiice_ofLegislateCounsel_made_referen.ces.ta.a.cuncern.ot

senator Baker over an alleged i finäncial relationship. between

SEar

---

## Page 5

CH HAS NO REJECTION TO

DECLAN: FIGATIN ANDIOR

RI-LEASE OF THIS ER CUMENT

"-5-

Da Helms and nortant wnich continued subsequent ta meltunt's

Formal retirement i" Baker made reference to a payment

Elisome 30,000 with the parenthetical comment that i

no. Helms would nut nave that amoist of manzy from his

2a hinds

mer Endleyee of to:staff: abnuned that. "if

the ageacy

I had -spensaced

tie stitann beatsit warlitely

that mastues nadi so intormei senator Baker."

C InerVe With Rayin Bocca- Ech 1ü1934 - Asked, about

nanang us tunt " r Raccoo ves punded "on the record" snathe:

=

as sa inowledge ai any such arcangements no at any ame wai

estety to day assistance of or any requests for assistance

¿Tr Hunt" Ventured gainion shat "in all probasty. an officia!

iquiescionce on the part at senor officials might have been

rivolued rather toas

an affecial sponsershis.

Dentecurennis duet, contract Personnel Duisena

-Fes 1974 stated that " alhough it was not commis

icactice it was net entrely unusual for

bighly sensitive

satiasts to be adminitered ithout the contacting

ificer bring qware at the operational abjectienuolved."

@ interwe with former chief of subeat, weren Europeas

0133UR- 1985

Date: 15 Ees 19241 Asted re Hunts actrustern 1965

= ".

"... Fraca his recollecturit was Hunt's habit to deal onlywith

e most senior offiar available" "He wa never breted on the

---

## Page 6

= 6-

SCORET

memo fue record dated al Fes 1974, te Officeos

Finance Recaras - 8. Howara trior.=

Hunt-departed Decion 5 hug 1965 and aroue

16 Aug lause triat was pala througis an account as the Riggs

Ma Bank in establted tie ms. turt

with chase mannatan hee was no recordiot anyapercinal

accouatic quences bang processed taraugh thu chanpel. mr

sale stated that this fact

defined his concern. He feit chatt

war incanewarle that mustunt could have undertaken

aperational acavity usaut some transfer of oraccounting

for funds, ani

Todate, nosich recosas: have been developed.

No reference to a project a project digraph ar operatonal:

EAN numbee has been lacated i AlLexpenses conneciedwith

ma that identifes to date were charged to the

Statua Suapurt A sauLen made of

Station recurds hairat

indicated any "Developmental and target of Upperturbs COSTO"

funca on

"Ather operational Actlity (a0R)" fund expended.

by ac aa bebalf it madunt there two accaunt would

nurmally be the source af operatonal funding not charged

against a specific project activity"" A reuew af travel vouchers

also talled to dentity a project. There was a voucher sur.

a return to

_Jan5-8; 19060. The voucher

states in tbe space proudec for the atanua of the scavel order

number-".no.travel_.orderiatniescoouintingiodu.appraved.and

signea.sy_karamessnes.@no.jushficaten_arstatemensofpurpose.

me Yale noted mat the royaltyoffset waiver proussiun amended

-ta tunts centract was un his experience, somewhat unusual.

SECRET

---

## Page 7

-57-

SECRET

The office of finance Directa stated thät from his experience,

makaramessinei would have dalegated all the arranging of ideals"

succaunding an assignorerit su

Flap loyee

sucha moratunts to sae

He attend sissuedue as what lie interpreted ta be reticence to date

to interview cor on laye

I mean fuciocora al feb jazy subj watergate

" E i ployse si

Encessed June, 197

¿ paior to reticement ne

wasan afro" he Exernal Emplonen: Ascistaace Branch

Retirement Retruises Divisia of ine othia at Persunnel. He was to aisint

in fuccing pest returement enadloyment He haubeen instrumental isthe

_plasement at Hunt in sne

Employar

Pauc to woriang fur Personnel, any

served with the cenal

cover statt in the area dealing with the funding of covert action

project ite had becoe fasiliar

with actuiter ot

Hunt.comlk

alóyee

shunt functined an the lover febuines Staff. e

fint came

in contact auth mullen corary when be was attenting tot

handle the public

relatias effort ata cauert Agencyractivity

Kasur as the Free lisba Camnastlee.

"Inaressane to a questur as to uhether or not executive level.

nterest was still being stown in matunt's post-emoloyment

Rin playee

lacooren, bac

ey recalled that Helms, then Direltur, was listed

sa character reference an me Hunt's resume and Helms signed.

Jetter of recommendation to the kenDecott cupper ca an Hunts behalt"

_contact was maintaned unth matunt at the muller co. on

employ-el

continuining basis because preten

-winterested.ner

runt for possible referrets (of other Agency retrees), false

SEGRET:

---

## Page 8

it fait

ünderstood there was couscandi cummercial staff interest in the

Daullen Goand thAt Matst became instrumental in

disaussing.semralaspeatsof the cover-ogeration

-ia bi

capacity as an afficer at the compans.

Da tuas: contacted so

anseveral occasions requesting mercal

of reticing Rgency coplayees with spect qualitcation - after Hund

adjoined the white House

ise Recalleda reavest for an individual

having stills so the crea

en of locks aad so succaptition entry.

Етрум".

It was a

the monitorag of a listenag deuce in aa undisclosed locatio

tuat also requested a cecoendation ot a security service

organizaten to carry que an electronia cauntermeasures

"suz 2p."

suspected: the electronic countermeaures sweep

wai to be carried out in the afficer of the committee to leelaci

was cited is he ever referred anyone tu mccord

Associates: He hadi

_recalled that at the time at tiat's

assiganesita maded the statement dusemnated fur casumption

wither the Agency

Jai wai not generally behened. He wa quite certain that durag

this percoch his affice handled ba project funding

Esc tunt

On mr tuat's retura be staff employment the pojects and funding

which stored In ya65 were agai

G. az Feb 1924-mneeing with

stely passible keins a karamessines handled the Hust-

=-re thougat wai

busineu

ather own... He didn't know anythns

pP-aa Feb 1984- He stated the assignment of mathinto the

1500.000 DIUIsin & to

"was handled without the beretst

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

of the couture pracessing poocedures thraugh the weren European

Diusic: Hunts assignment wai coordinated and directed by

sacaressinet He uni unaware of any spectre project ac

target ter munt tunt pauced poste intelligerce on the

banget dunng the penach the officials responsible sur the fheals

copsatale fue anestoc within the weitera sumpean orsicia

vere totally unaware of it

of is he mas. ot info he had about thin?

vas bearsay, facerannie

aconsent ua made bja sautual

acquaintance to the effect thät Huntstated that onle in

he was going to alay gülf and wate back.

tis personal apinian shas

ruo had no operational tuscterana.

cair

ai sumay granted the appacturitista iate booke for bus our

ersanal goia a quu's expene

memo fur she record, dated 20 Dec1973, conversativa

1it0 c/

Liest in indu, 65. the was told by

LEur le cha nac been va by karamessinei that ituat was

rabe assigned ta

as Deos, as adisected assignment by bels.

inetabassador wauld not bau that in the embasy. After a coupie

nanthe a; he was told that tunt war goingto

under

arofficial cauer It came to bin trios karamesine on Helms'order

unt was to have the phone # at the cas out he would de ootbidy

i the statoo Hunt was to submit admastrate vouchers for

ambussement of his expense & they were ta be paid the sancurs

not there was so operatunal regachrig, ta indicate that Hunt was

long_anythiag.cos.

had told sin that be didn't know what

tunt diet.

SEGBET

---

## Page 10

10

Storier-

@ arses 1924- searon at Finance recuras to deermine l a 30,000

symeat to thin» that required no acaduating could be foures

rebitravel darns son aco-lat Analyzed ituntis adiande

cauat for ge n

and have determined. chat 12

/27.20206-720

333,500 was aquanen to hm for travel and transportation

with one tao to Racu

Tasenew.visal..Gne.dem.appeaced unusual

'expenditure as 0 1,600

2e200220641

fuca sensitue operation isich wai

paraved de mere of me Dermona fingerare on

* 90200*40.

"Doestraage aspect it

the

per-official cover assignment 1a

sithat all the costs

uece cocogec to the support: allotment

orthe EUR Division

which is not Dormal as pas offcial

ques peaple are usually

assigned ta the project. Itisinianal

• have a case aftice abroad for one jear on an opecatione l121

assignment wishest bino

incucuing acerational expenditires.

@nema dana 9 may 1904, by chies, ops/osa re

"watergate

He Research. Final Repact

" Recalls that there vera occaranal inquicie

Lam. cedenis at

abaist the repoded presenca in

étetunt. At no time ala tunt catact bim. There was sume into

2 19rà concerring reputed actuaties in

pay Robert vesco:

a 290ct 1924 memo tron Dir. of Security - "Leaverecords reflect that

, the four week pay perrod ending as souember 1963 mattunt

aka total of l1 hours nice seaue andro ansual leave utta the

Wang four week pay period; be tact 3 hauss sick leave

1aa7 hours annual leave. We are unble to further deatly the

ves on which the above sick and annual leave were taken

Travel_records reflect_that_mc.Huntconducted.no otheral travel

cing-the month as N00. 1963.

Let wa

OK

---

## Page 11

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFIGATION ANDION

RELEASE OF THIS DOCU" "ENT

SECTR

1 memo fur recaça, 20 seet 1934-by sile Breckincidge

"Hunt's" beavelrecord spous offcal träuel in September,

actober and December, but sere i vaumber; all at this

bravel was to New york" "

stater that wa -

similar information, he was not an agency employee

"Security praded

us with a column ay Taek enderson, of

16 April 1924, in ubich be coveredshe Hunt-sturgi runuc,

durassing it A cary of she neus columns attached thi out

suggest that i cather aban police photographs of persons

rounded up and booked, she phötogrambs in question are

candira snapshots of crowds. If this is correct there wouldbe

no related police fingerprint records that could be checked

fur verificatin

a memo fur Depuy Dinector for administratin bun Dirat 3e

Security

subStand Date 23 Out. 1924. Discuisies

allegatica regarding tant & sturgis "maStug was oot a

assecated with the Agency in any manner in louember

1963." FBI Liaison Officer interulewed. bunt on 170ct

1934 and tunt adused at that time that he bad Learned

-of the assassinaton af JEls "on his carradia while be

was in a leave stake. In the washington scared."

3) memo for the recurd, dated ao December 1973 ay

_Breckinridge.

Hustwas.inthe.DODiuislcnand1n/7ug-196.4

-wal assignedto the

oface. "I gave → a a

-possible press treatment that Hurt wa engaged namestià

operctions (somerbing senator saker-pursuing) and that

SECRET

OK

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

his assignment to

Tatter the election solid be presented

as guing him hone

to couLate.

Background - ra June issa

Emplayed by CIA

30 2201: 1970

47.461008

1971 - secued as

"Subject o a

erei so the central cover staft

Dec 1950-assianed

Chief

seruedia

Chuet ot

cassia there until, 195-3

- June 1954

to Feb 1257

CDS=

sntleasty 1960

June 9s0- assigned

NOU 1961- reassigned

so the doe/ court Acroni staff

Jan 1962

30 officeaf the Chief/De»

July 19122-

the DoDs Researchand Publicaton

Secter n washingto

July 1961

ine DaDs cousct Action stati

Feb 1965.

office of the DDe Loperaruns Group

June: 191a5- seat 1966- contact agent-

Sept 1ictn

-Chief af. European Covert

Operation untal

reticament 309 pal 1920

6N00 1920- gaaten a covere secuaty Appraual tor

with

-use by Centeal Covec Staff

_@ mullen

lasurela- Inquey of central cover start on aturela

revealed that thissa current relationshep

subject's see file reflects that itunt a the past has been at

operatural interest to marames Angleton-

SECRET

K

---

