# 180-10145-10235

## Page 1

180-10145-10235

B0x54

F4

# 9 E

SECRET

DO File summary

Leslie wizelman

3/3/28

submited

3/8/78

Dino vincent Cellins

Cellinis 201 has the inclusive dates of 1971-1975. The

Fale status is closed, The revrew form is dated a Jan 1925

The file contains a dispatch to the ?? I

dated April 1971

Regarding Headquarters Trace Results on Dino Vincent cellini.

The document includes the following statements:

r. Dino cellini is mentoned in /UFGw-157]15 De 1961, but

"uncible to locate this document

Jose Joaquin sanjenis Perlomo

2 - 13 Fes 1961 cable stating...

Aromas reported cellini

worked at the Tropicana anch Rivera in Caba before guingt,

Hase. Haiti, Subj (cellini) now residing 1a459 key stone.

Rd. , North miami.

3= 18 5an1966 report that cellins is a well-known

washington DE gambler and "is or was a close friend

ot D.C. gambler. Joseph Francis Nestini.

4- Refers to a True magazine artole, April 1970 pp.

83,8) and

INERGO reports dated al Des 1960 ;.

18 Jan 19613

10 July 1971.

The fle ncludes an envelope with no label.

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

180-10145-10235

---

## Page 2

SECRET

summary

DOO

3/6/78

submitted 3/7/78

Leslie Wizelman

De varana, manuel Antonio

volume 1 of the varona file covers from 150ct 1948

to sept 30,1949 and namerate primarily cunsists.of

third agency material.

Volume 2 covers the period from Jan 1956 to

April 1960. This file includes a brographical information furm,

dated 8/8/1957. Vorona's DOB is.. 11/25/1908.. POB iS ..

Camaguey, Cuba. Carlos Prio Socarras is listed as a

friend ot Varona's, His wife is Emilina Russ

sanchez de Varona, and his children are carlos manuel de

Varona, and Segura Bustamente nee de varona. He has

one brother.whose.name was not given. Varona has

been. active in the political atfairs

for the Cuban

Revolutionary Party. (PRC-Autentico) since 1934.

Chronologically:

1940-44 = member of House of Representatives (Cuba)

-1944-48 = member of cuban Senate

@ 1948-50 = Prime minister and Senator in Prio gou'+

@ 1950- 5a = President of Cuban Senate.

On Aug 8, 1957 a cable from Havana stated that the

PRG part 1 is attached and part two is coming. On January

22, 1958 varona was gives a 201 number and assigned a

cryptonym.

On Jan 20, 1958 vorona was go granted

operational approval. (requested 22 Aug 1952).

SECRET

---

## Page 3

_2=

SECRET

on August 2), 1959, a request was submitted to amend

Varona's operational approvat

...to permit.

his use

Foreign Intelligence reportingasset

witting political action agent in the manAn Project.

on march 10, 1960, pranome a cable indicates vorona

desired. to speak to "accreditted". Us. gou't person re...

"his posizon and plans" The Havana station recommended

that?

7" who knows varona be authorized pass

invitation to varona fur stateside. conference, with

appropriate persons or have

returnsoonest

for cold turkey talks with varona."

cable

on march 17, 1960,

Jorge Alonso Pujol told

on march 15 that varona is ready to join the active

opposstion to castro... Pujol was varona's partner in the

usurance business.

In a cable dated march as, 1960, headquarters listed

the its response to requests made by varona. in the marchloth

cable. stated that It

would.guarantee.the entry.ci

leaders

key person and followers; economic assistance will be

forthcoming; working on a long wave radiostaton, and

the establishment of a united command

- assets

be discussed

lat meeting on in the u.s. withi

Justo

Carrollo, Hernandez and Rubio Padillo

In a dispatch from the chiel of station fat, Havana, dat ed

April 1,1960 it is reported that santage Baburn called at the

u.S. Embassy to see Gerald L. Gardyne. On march 23, 1960

Babun introduced Orlando Accosta and Eugenio Rolando

martinez

tu Garagne, Babun said he, accosta and

SECRET

3

ML

---

## Page 4

SECRET

martinez were in close contact with varona. Babun

asked Gardyne if he knew carlos Casaus who resides

in the Fosca buolding.

and claims to be a special

Gout

muestigator tur.

.) Gardyne said he did not know

Casaus. On.

march as, 1960 Gardyne met with Babur,

Aacosta, martinez and Lomberto Diaz Rodriquez.

The dispatch states that. Varona probably authorized

• Diaz to meet Gardyne in order to cross-check

and determine knowledge of... varana's acturtes are knoun

U.S. Gou't

to the state Dept and fff

Meet support.

03

On April 13, 1960 Varona met with

Hand wanted

tsanets, when he arrived in us, bott

nih to

discuss his views on the Cuban situation with someonepril 16

who eould speak for the us. guurt. Varona agreedto

meet: carrillo in Caracas, ormpitt

Fe. to proceed tu

san Jose in case Figuer es is nut in caracas, to hold

conversations with Arango in Caracas..., Varona commented

that he is close to Figures and Betancourt.

A cable dated April 18, 1960. from Droller sta repurts

a meeting with Buttari. Buttari was eager to introduce

Droller to Varona and for Droller to arrange a

"Varona/ mr. John" meeting. Putari reported his son was

leaving cuba and could bring with him

- 8 students who

would be briefed by Bender group and sent to hemisphere

countries as agitprop types....

Droller comments that

such a scheme was in line with "

our/Phillips thioking."

SECRET

---

## Page 5

An April 28, 1960

cable from the Directur to

6-17

4.s.6ourp states

that varond st should be infurmed that (ain/ atticiz!

Robert Palmer, 15 prepared to meet him upon his arrwal

m N. Y.C.

Gerald Droller and Hunt met withvarona oo

Del 20,1960 at "Joe Stonecrab Restaurant at miami Beach.

she memo of contact report states that varona's scouts had

found an isolated plece of land on. Andros Island. vasona

discarded the idea of usinget as a tranning site for a 100

people. Droller makes the comment that.

"I woulc bet

aven money that he will pursue this aspect unslaterally."

Nou 29, 1960

there is a repe

Edusin A

memo of conversation

between varona and

vallon

Robert A, Stevensin |/Robert A. Hurwitch

and Frank Deuine

af the

= Department of state. Varona had uriginally

requested to see the Asst secretary, mi. mann.. Varona

requested tunas. He stated that Florida law enturcement was

getung stricter. Varona was impatient.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

-5-

volume 3 of the varuna file covers the dates from

may3, 1960 10 June 24, 1960

Varona was to be in NYC on may 4, 1960 and

would stay. at the st, murstz if he could get reservations...

varona.planned on leauing Nit.for miamion may 6.

on mays. Varona met with pEOR

1.) Varona stated he

planned on returning to N. I.C on may 8 ur 9 tor a meeting.

with other. Cuban leaders, including Justo Carrillo, Rasco

and others. Varona planned on using. Amalio Fiallo as

03

agit-prop. ty.pe.

stated that they ad not

discuss paramilitary subject because it was activity.

which. "could best be handled in consunchen with

private groups, ie. the Carr- Bender group.

- 0.3

stated.

that he followed a format which he and Droller had

prepared. during the politica!

part of the discussion.

Utoid varuna "that certain acturtes were not within

my prounce but there was a group that I was aware of

headed by mr. Carr (whose name incidentally varona had

mentioned to me hrst), that the group was completely...

I reliable and well intentuned and did brue the proper contacts

with our government and that he should beve the

Jured

l name Rubert Roger

that

and Betancourt were successful in

settling difterencos between

"Pres. Betancourt told war

Espinosa

Arango and Varana.

US GOUR

_that

now wants

SEGRET

---

## Page 7

-6.

SECRET

0.4

04

Espinoza

to take measures against Trajillo..

not - willing

to forges nicaraguan problem fur present time in order

Espinozce

to apply his tull effurts against Trujillo.

asks

tat say a rogerate. " Lengthy*

sere

15000/ talks.

Haspin 2/scheduled. fur. may 9

varona's.nephew.is. Abel de varona. Juarez.

04 A memuranaum ter the recora, dated may. 19, 1960, states

serahno Rommaldi

ts met with zuesbio mujal on may 13.

The memo states that Figueras and Betancourt urged

Prando und varona to join in a united front, mujal stated

he and Ratael otero had a lengthy meeting with varona

last week (in NHC). It was decided to form she...

Frente Sindical Revoluccionerio as an independent entity torom FR

but with representation un. the FRD. A good candidate was

Rate arena or are on a a a a conna st

recently seen Spruillo Braden again. Braden told mujal that

04 Romualdi

he intended to arrange a Dulles/ Thujal contact

requested 8300/month fur Otero.

stato

In a cable from the Dir

bay otPiss

, dated Mays,

1960, It was reported that (TAMPERIN

forganization was

03

the subject of

- a lengthy conterence today with

Foster collins and Al Cox.

It was also reported that

is ready to go to mexico and arrange comono and em

training sites, but won't leave unt!." your return with

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

conference decisions. Artme still anxious inuade target.

Goudie

agrees our views re P.M. planning. Have vague

repurt from assessment site that quute twenty five of

thirty candidates losk good end quote."

A. may 26, 1960 cable from miami reports on

miscellaneous FRO matters.

varuna is to go to carcas on

may 27 to issue public statement explaining break with

castro. Gentlto Carrillo will go to mexico June 30r4.

In mexico and venezuela, carrillo and. varona will 100k

for suitable

real estate fur

o/ricardo luis de la Lorre Big commo aperatars..

Artime and /eMisJ are eager to move to destroy sugar fields.

"Nobody seems like our approach at moment." suggested.

varona prepare a papar. and they would discuss at a.

bicari/ Bender / varona meeting...

Bender might bring

his "military expert" to mig.".

varona and Carrillo

again made point re need tur immediate action against Trujello.

Droller would not give word that bicari and Druller favured

Trujillo offer" without manch more deliberation."

varona, Carrello, and pasco , antly asked whether ERD could

mount anti-Irujello acturties in collaberatiun certain unnamed

Dominicans. Droller sald adule would be furthcumins. Varona

accepted first monthy payment, $ 700 honcrarium, trum Droller

plus $200 for chaufteur..

The tile cuntains a newspaper artcle by Hal Hendrix

enttled: "Fidel called Rea Tout, Says Cuba fre." Contarnis

statement by varanu.

Dated 5/29/60 - miami News..

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

A may 31,1960 cable to Havana states that "deposit of

$15,000 to varona account being handled through Grupo

Bender. "

...-(conversiun at pesos to dollars)

from Caracas

A June 2,1960 cable states that at a 31 may

meeting. varona had...

with manolo Alcalde Incala,

Who works for Decar Internatunal ot miami and is

apparently varuna's right hand man. Employee

of corbuston contact. varona agreed to arrange an

executue commitee meeting. fur June 8.

A cable. - July 2, 1960, from mexico city repurts that

on June a3

Zance I

interulewed varonz.

There is eudence that varonz is under technical surveillante

"Recommend FRD leaders be warned avoid ouert u.s.

gout contact."

Acable from Droller reports that at the executive

commitee tos meetag, varona and Carrillo aduled that

vargas com ez had a long sessica with William Pawley fun.

which/pawley/said that VEER, RUBOTIOM , Admiral Burke and

Cardinal Spellman were backing Rubio group and could not

agrees on policies uf the FRD. Thus 20-as signatures frum

prominent Americans are being collected for leber depeting

ERD members as promuting Fidelista policies without Ficiel

Communism..

Letter to be transmitted State Dept. via Cardinal

Spellman.

SECRET

2

---

## Page 10

SECRET

on June B, 1960 a meeting occurred between Indr Pons

and

michael m. Maney. Pons said he had been anempting

to recruit crew members

for maritime operatians.

It was common knuwledge in miami that varuna back

the backing of the CIA (according to Pons). It is known that

Diaz Tamayo has substantal backing from Americans.

FU Guttierez, who works for varona, offered to obtarin

a number of LST's fur Pons and is also trying to recrurt

Navy types.. Pons met with varond who asked Pons to

Jain his group.

. Pons

sald he would like to meet with

ma.

Abbot (Dave emiles on June.

trom Havanu

A June au, 1960 cable reports that on June 17.

that

Edward D. Knapman was introduced to Capt. Eduardo

Ferrer. Femer arranged fur Knapman fu meet lamon Ruis

sanchez Predad , varona's brother in law.

Imet

Russanchez when varona's wite left cuba. Station discourages...

future relationship with Ruis Sanchez, unless has, has urew to contrer

Sanchez may become victim of castro provocation.

A June a3, 1960 cable to

reports that

a conference suite bas has been reservec at the

1 Commodore for June 28 thru July 5. Droller would like

a meeting with varona before July 3.

Komuald.

June al 1960 there was a meeting

-of

and

1J mujal tora

Romuäldi

Meganes y that he

had been told by FBI contacts not to allow his supporters

to undertake assassination plots against the castros.

Che Guevara, etc. mujal feels this puts him on the spot

SECRET

---

## Page 11

SECRET

-10-

"because if an attempt ot this type is made, the FBI

-might hold him responsable

anomalia

actica jo depar

hom. He then wa assured by lomand that he could

not be deported

without.court.actun.and.aduised

to tell the FBI to mind its aun bissness."

---- A

Volume tour of the varona tile covers the period

from July 1, 1960 to Sept 30,1960.

A memo for the Chief of

the WHD dated July 1,1960

reports that Droller had a a hr meeting with varona in

NYC. Droller told varona that mr. Burke Hedges. "had no

place in our operation." Hedges was trying to rause funds trom

United Frust Cu; Kuhn Loeb, Rhodes& lo', standard Ou uf N.J.

Am. Power:& Light Co memo suggest that compantes be Instructed

"to bar their dours to Hedges."

A July 14,1960 mAsH cable reports that Artime &

varona have submitled a list ot

_20 people for candidacy.

second phase traising..

A July 20, 1960 cable from Havana states that on July 19

Pe. mario del Canal Ferrer, wno described bimself as pincipal

representative é coordinater ter varona, contacted pol offecer

John Topping and wanted discreet contacts with the Embassy as

contacts already established through Testo Exposito Lorenzo.

& Juan menender Tellez were not sufficient.

When varona left Cuba he introduced

I to Jesto

Exposta Lorenzas his "perlado representatire" and

---

## Page 12

SECRET

-11-

only... person who authurized

to act as channe!

between stahon and varona." The statiun is disturbea that

indiscreet.approach.made.toEmbassy.reveallingthat

covert channel existed to varona..

A memo dated July 26, 1960 repurts a telephone call.

from Jack malone to

1) malone reported that varona

had asked.Mr. Lowell Fash

to visat Andros Island in order to

lease 3 or. 4 acres of land. Tash will be instructed to go to Andras

and report back to malone. Tass was the furmer manager of

an Am. ranch in Cuba.

A July 28, 1960 cable from mast reports that mario del

Canal

"head man and general courdinatur in Cuba" for

varona's Rescate. code name=

- Patricio

menendez. Tellez

put. Varma in touch. with

A August 4, 1960 MASH cable reports.. varona will be in

D.C. fur Af Aug. 5 meeting with People to. People Committee.

will be in N.Y Aug 6 and will call Droller. Returning Miami

Aug 6.

after Droller.

Droller is too stingy Droller told varona, that Droller group

favors varona as leader: Droller believes it is time to start

funding FRD out of agreed 8131,000/ month. " Beginning sept.

all funding to be hanaled usa

(Note: Pis be sure Hunt

has cash and swiss account auailable upon his arriva!

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

varona arrived miami tram mexico on August 18, 1960

An Aug 19, 1960 copor

reports that

mexican official has declined to grant varona resenter permit

following proposed trip.to Los Angeles for "press conference."

tust reels the der. angelos trap is a further example of

varona asserters predeliction to substitute u.s- travel fur.

jorganizatunal. actrusty in mexi

A Aug 25, 1960 cable from Director to

SMASH

reports.that duringvarona's.recentuisst.to.us..he

reportedly solicited funds Las vegas gamblers, Suggest at your

discretión you probe report."

A leter from varuna to Droller, dated Aug 26, 1960

request U.s. residence permuts fur mra mos Jose I. Garcia

Mr. E Mrs. Roberto Solis, and mr. & Mes. Carlos Rosello, who

lue in Spark, Nevada and are the our representative

over there and in calit.

A sept 10, 1960 cable from Hunt reports that Hunt

_presented varona with new organizational plan which varuna accepted.

munt will work on Rasco to accept plan. Rappurt is better thenever

A Sept 15, 1960 memo repurts that varona arrived in

I NYC during the early pom on September 14 and was

pan east no set ora per pro et to day".

Venetian way, san marinz, Flurida.

Da Sept 16, 1960 cable

trom mash reports that

Sosa told Droller &

of varona's

strong desire

to returo to cuba soon.

Droller felt it would be an excellent

step.

SECRET

---

## Page 14

SECRET

113=

cuntact

A Sept da, 1960 repurt by proller reports a

meeting of varana

and Droller in coral Gables en

Sept az..

varona discussed the possibility of his return to

Cuba. Droller thought it was a good idea for varuna to

return to Cuba. Requested a detailed statement. from varona.

varona said he was going to N.Y on soot

the evening

of the 18t1

A Sept a2, 1960 cable from mAsH reports that

Jerry

W. Erler trade, Pres. of Sears Roebuck in Cuba, has been

approachea by manuel Rodriguez to serve as an alternate

courier fur FRD. Rodriguez said he is the intermediary between

FRD & recuperacion on Cuba fur mutual suppurt coordination bott

groups. He travels Havana-mian.. 3 times / month and meets

Frank Layas. and/ur tony varunz to grue & receive plans d

instructors.

A Sept 29, 1960 cable reports that on Sept a7,

varona was appointed general coordinator ot FRD

A Sept 30, 1960 memo by Droller reports on a Sept a?

meeting with varona at the La moderne motel, coral Gables

& Droller met & varuna brought pruller up to date an

with

revents which had taken place offer his return@ carcilo

from meeting with Hunt # Dratefficia, Washingtan

→ Varona reported that a high-level American had recently

come througs man's and had spoken to willem Pawley An

agreement was reached between this Am. dl pawley that the

Exe:

Commi

teache

- would be replaced by Rubio Padillo & Co.

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

-14-

Vol Fiue of the varona file.

covers the period from...

Oct 1, 1960 to Dec 30, 1960.

An Oct 3,1960 memo reports a meeting with varona,

& Droller

on sept 28. Varona stated that Goudie d

Elena. felt bad about Jimsmith dealing over their beads.

Droller told varona that we would send in the future certain

equipment into Cuba. If everything went well, I would

inform him and the FRD could take the credit. It something

went wrong, the ERD, however, would true to take the blame.

An OctS, 1960 from ImmASH reports meeting of Hunt. 8

varona...

Agreed that

Hunt will

maintain normal contact with

FRD exec comm.

varena and other...

* members plus Sosa and Bajast

Paula.

Also has right to discus opns with departmental chiefs

Fravelf.Brown

and En

...will confine contacts to departmental

Chiefs plus Sosa. Also, no tise American should make ...

commitments to any cuban -without consultation wrth varong....

"Believe above reasonable......

However in practical terms

- none of above intended curta.l current production or

relatunshops."

An Oct 6,1960 cable repurts that varona stated

that a cubana pilots and navigator who fly castro on.

International flights are ready to defect fFYI: It pilots

really tly Castro this open other opal possibilities."

An Oct 8,1960 cable reports that Hunt, ura Barker,

Isbecoming-famdar.with working leved of ERD matters

and "this will proude a SEBRETon varuna's acturty.

---

## Page 16

SECRET

- 15

1l

and pertormanco.

An octs, 1960 masH cable repurts that Hunt should

remind varona of agreement reached with Bender whereby

retains control and funding fi FReD affiliates!"

An Oct 8, 1960 mash cable (Action, mr. Phillops) states that

varana is interested in mounting P.M. ops as political favor fur

contacts with non-FRD suppurters who are desirous unlize

varunals accessautis arous source. Sosa has macte 2

approaches to

Sad, verona want to use Alberta Fernandez

Echevarria and Nino Diaz. Sosa claimed that varona is....

in contact with an unnamed induidual who owns a small plane

which hes made. two flights from Flurda in last 2 wks

to make arms delivery ts Duque group in Escambrey....

"Basic element uf interest abuve is Varana's willingness break

own FRD administrative channels."

An Oct 12, 1960 cable esports from ImmAsHt reports

that the Dre has selected students fur first propaganda

team: Raman Barguin Canterro, Carlos de varona, Miguel

A. Garcia...

Armengo, manuel saluat Roque , Alberto Muller

y quintana..

Alberto Roque may use allas Jue Castell.

A contact report gy Romllela dared octal pomo

Romauld i

reports a meeting with

is to have a meeting with Varuna and hoped

meR's

entry into FRD would be accomplished soun. Requested

assistance to infoltrate one of his men EN U CRESPI

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

-16°

An oct 12, 1963 cuntactrepurt by proller of a meeting with

martinez Fraga on oct 13

_ reports that Fraga wasto go

Paris un Oct 14 to persuade Alonso Pujol "to returnto.

the U.S. in order to begin and carry out the important

work of a "behind-the-scenes" cullaborater with FRD..

Droller approved, as did Varuna.

An oct 18,1960 contact report by Droller repurts a

meeting.u.ith Varona. varona requested arms besupplied

and that we nut inquire into the details of how he would

dispose of them, made other requests. No commitment giue.....

An Oct 194, 1960 cable repurts that varna has been.

rebuked for oct i7th raic and on oct 18 Hunt told varona

that material still unaccounted fur. varuna began taking

steps to recover.... No reason to belleve any key materials

purposely withheld...

An Oct ao, 1960 cable from mASH repurts that

6. osmunt moody saich that pawler had callec.

him ana told him to contact varona who was to contact

his can contact. Pawley Bard his instructions come.

trom "JAKE,""

and Öcta3

On Oct 20, 1460 varuna was in New Pork.

(Directur)

An oct

25, 1960 cable reports that the state Dept man

who varona was in contact with was really a representatue of

the senate Investigation Committee in touch with varona

thru senator smathers - according to Lem Jones.

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

- 17-

MASH

an oct 31, 1960 cable reports that subjects picked up

_safely.by coast.guard. cuHer 2 hrs off keywest. masH

officers brought subjects to. mAst safe house. "Planned

Operation PAT discussed. main points.... were recognition

signals and selection rendevous punts.

varona is to have a press conference in N.I.Con

NoU Y.

On Nore Oct 25, 1960 a meeting of Droller, Hunt, and

Varona. was beld in Hunt's apt. Varona is planning.

to discharge Lem Joner...

A.... Nou 3;1960 cable reports discussions with

Rogello Gonzalez y Carzo and Jim. Pekich. Feels Varona

has subuerted the cawe.

An Oct 28, 1960 dispatch from IMASH repoets that

Jesus Rodriguez y moreno appeared at the INS office

and requested a passpurt.

... He indicated he was returning to Cuba

on a special mission fur vacona and is to coordinate

counter revolutionary actrustes in the Pinar del Rio.

Havana area. A Nou 4,1960 cuble requests that varana

I be told that above arbitrary actiun could prove counterproducti

A Nou 9, 1960 cable repurts that varona has hired

Adeeb, Osborne and mcLaney, 100 Biscayne Ave, miami as

his puble relations form.

A Nou 14, 1960 IMASH cable reports that varora is to

arrive in D.C.on Nou 15 fur consultation with Guatemalen

Ambassdor to US and OAs.

SECRET

---

## Page 19

SECRET

-18.

mAR reported to successful drops to Duque forces

on nou 3 anal by

Varona using- Cessnas arcraft.

Each drop consisted of 60 susmachine guns.

A Nou al, 1960 contact report by Droller of a

meeting. with Raul Chibas and Juan Estever Ramiras on Noul6

sists the current organization of the map in exile. mr. Ray

wanted Droller to be reassured of mRp's friendship for u.s.

Droller gave Chibas a $ 400 Check

ImMASH

A Nou 21, 1960

cable states manolo Ray has

phoned varana and arrangea to see varona in miami

meeting ts 2, 9d comtact report by Droller of a

and varona states that

varona was told he might be a good idea to visit p. C

during. week of Noval to pay a courtesy call on someone

in the office of secretary mann.

(MASH 1841)

A. NoU 24, 1960 cable from IMASH to Director

reports that" pedro Diaz Lanz: has joined PRO, bringing into

it the following plots: Abel Hera Corton, Frank Fiorini,

Francisco Llano, Evangelista Mursuli, Ramon P. Fuentes ,

Nestor Alvarez, Fernando Carcia and Carlus Diaz lanz

1 "Shortly alter joining FRD, Diaz suggested to varona

the establishment of a special missiun group comprising

the above personnel, all of whom, according to Diaz

Lanz are qualitied as A/C mechanics. The group would

drop pen FRD leaflets on cities, small towns and

cooperanues and could fly Cargo missions when requined.

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

-19-

"Do prepare themselues fur standby, readiness. Diaz has

requested varona (and varona has queried Hunt) for tunds

to:

@ rehaboliate the persunally-owned B-as A/c of

Diaz as a cost of approx. $2500 B prouide polots with

Link trainer time (8 pilots at 10 hrs munthly, at cost

at $8/hr). and @ consider. purchase of float-equipped

Cessna 180 and ur 210

for ext infil/exful ops.

*While realize present policy precludes us-based

flights, desire at minimum maintain flight proficiency.

this integrated group whose current and future actuities

could be.. monitured and directed by the newly-establisted

joint Cuban/ American operations section of the mil...

commission.

"Temporary solution has been to assign Diaz group

to transport

_commission, which now funchions under mil.

commission, but tunds are not currently budgeted for link

trainer time.

"Request has approve initiz) link trainer refresher

1ot 1960y15bseachpilot.then monthlycost.of

st 640. Not likely training to extend beyond three

months."

A Nou 29,1960 letter to Dave from unidentified person, may

be Lem Jones)

_ states that varona has decided to hire a new

public relations Butfit in N.S. - Connally Associates heaced by

SEGRET

---

## Page 21

SECRET

-20

Joe Connally, Jr, who has been a NiY. Corresponden t

for Adeeb, Osborne, and Melaney. Osborne pretends to

know nothing about what is going on. Joe wants nu part uf. t.

A DeC 9, 1960 WAVE Cable reports varona is absent

Miami until Dec 13.

A Dec 10, 1960 [cable onL

Ireports that Longar

me. Langan) plans to take nuns Jeplauce to washing ten

on Dec 1a, 1960. will travel Houston val estheters house.

Possible new lead on Dec 9, 1960 when one Junnsas

FNu, speaking Texas, English, phoned the Cuban Embassy

in mexico city saying had "very very important"

info to grue them. Said info about Dr. Varona,. and

Flocencia of N.Y." A Dec 1a, 1960 K

reports

that subjects true name is Thomas Howard Griggs

PS A Dec 13, 1960 cable reports thatl

(employee) met Gustavo musteler, Cuban lawyer

now m exile in miami) on Dec ll andia ( manson

attended meeting using name Rabert vintent..

General discussion le Cuban exile unity or lack thereat.

A Dec 16,1960 dispatch from IMWAVE includes

1 a list of personnel of

_the Rescate group.

A Dec 16, 1960 cable reports a meeting with

Hunt/larona. varona was negative about use of

mujaland bis assets. Hunt told varona that he

should not object if Bender group explores use

at mujal independently of FRD.

SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

21

A DeC 19, 1960 WAVE cable reports that

per Sporgory's) (employee) verbal query at WAUz,

Rafael ("macho") Genor working with FRD. Varona

approves visa fur wife.

A Dec 19, 1960 cable tram Haugna seports

Ramun Augusto Rusz. Sanchez

lengthy meetings with

• Disallusioned

with FRD and varona..

A Dee 19, 1960 dispatch. reports that

Jose Joaquin Sontenis Perdona reports that

Gisela carera de solis, uno resides at 3141. 5+,

Sparks, Nevada is the wife of Roberto sulis who

works at the... Hotel Riverside. in Reno, Nevada.

She is working fur FRD

.In Nevada, LA, San Francisc

Renu, and Las vegas. Recommended for job by

Varona and Pujol..

Vol 6 of the varona file covers the dates from

January 6l to may 31, 1961.

A TanS, 196| reportE WAVE cable reports that Nino.

1 Diaz spoke with varuna and martin Elena. Agreed

that Nino would join FRo

Romaulaand enter training.

Nino says that stret

- claims Bender prouding

38,000/ munth for group suppuct and asks.

that support

maulai

be stopped since hal

yal brother is treasurer, and

u30s tundle for alteel controlman fram cano here.

exec.comm

dissident group-voted to drop Relati

it..

---

## Page 23

SECRET

22-

since he is not willing to youn the FRD or go to training

A memo tor the record dated Tan 6, 1961 from.

Richard I. Biladeau, reports that mr. Lee Grills, pres

of consolidated Production Co., Ft. Lauderdale. Is engaged

in the producton of explosiues and he now hese new

type he wishes to make known to the u.s. gout. Currentu

engaged in filling a large order fur Cubans. Gave names:

varona. Frederick Goudie, Florentine Blanca, A quelera

Grolls is in business with lewss O'Connur and Joseph

o'connor.

A January 13,1961 memo. for the recurd repurts a

conversaten between.

Barker and varona concerning the

Cuban exile group's visit to washington. Varona said

there were plans to thank Elsenower for the million dollais

for cuban exile relief, to uisit Peruelan Amb.tou.J., and

to speak to reps of the DAS, This is a followes up

ot approach by manuel Brand to a mr. White and mr.

Hopkins who are associated with the white House.

1 Varona's rep In N.T is Eduardo Gonzalez.

An undated page headed with "Director: CIn"

states that It is requested that we be aduised whether

your Agency is in a posten to know of any extensive

financial backing of varona and. Frente, and, itso,

whether there is any other data avallable indicating

substantäl contribution

gamblug interests 1o

SECRE

the u.s.

---

## Page 24

SECRET

23

A January al, 1961 cable Frum WAVE reports that on

Jan 17 varona tuld Barker that he had been intermed that

pawley.was.beginning legal action against FRD through.

wash attorney marshall Diggs on a complaint inituated

by FNU Perez. Abreu, a Cuban lawyer. Basis of complaint

is said to be mis management of funds. Varona said

Justin Gleichauf is supposed to know details.

A memotor the recora, dated Jan 23,1961,.

by

marchas um. maney )repurts that "I atelecen

with Francisco Saralegui (Bohemia Libre) on this

date, he confided to me that he hack been tolci

by Lopez. Fresquet of a conversation which Lopez.

had had with the President

on Saturday. He was

promised that once a beachhead was established in Cuba,

a provisional gout.

..should be set up conshhuted

: by Ruto Lopez Frequet

allegedly promised tale donize sout.

miro, and varuna. Pres

varonawas to participate ma radio/TU publec

events show in NYc on Jan. a9. on febl bewas

to address a women's group in washington D.C..

A Jan 30, 1961 cable reports that Hunt has

authorized Varona approach broad list of exaled.

figures with view of incorporation into FRu.

A Feb 1, 1961 dispatch states that a rape

recerved from Pawley, funch records a conversatien

between Fabio Freyre, Rubio Padillo, CuervoRubio,

and varona is attached. SECREtonversation took place

---

## Page 25

SECRET

24

on san 30,1961. [us GA - 705) CThe tape is

not in the file

- A contact repurt... by Droller dated Feba, 1961

reports.. that Pujol questioned Droller if he would

continue in vrew of the change in administration.

Droller said he would and that "As a priuate.

American citreen, changes in the administration would

not affect me in any case, but there is noindicatun

that even under the new administratión there would be

any change in our work.".

A Feb a, 1961 cable frum BELL reports that.

Conte

Aquera

ma and Pedro Diaz Lanz are returning to

miami on Feb 4. "As result inability obtain uisas

with permission for plane, tour to be wither both

via commercial flights."

... Alleged offer of varona

to

to make

him replacement for

vollatana martinez.

A Feb 11, 1961 WAVE cable reports that wAsP

l is schedualled to leave marathon and will exfiltrate

Emélio Gonzalez Castellanos, Benito Medina Garcia,

Gilberto sadena Alberto bonzalez Ricio, and

carmel Gottarne..

WASP is a 26' yacht.

..A Feb 1a, 1961

cable reports that Hunt is

returning to miami

on feb 13 and will act as an

escort fur

varana, Artime, a maceo on flight to

traming area. Consensus #bAEREJuan Argee Paula y Bal:

---

## Page 26

StCKti

25

trip should be delayed unhl after departure above

persuns from area order not

imply Paula.

- part of

pol, struchere.

A Feb 13, 1961 cable from BeLl IS reports that

Jose Joaquin Sarajenis Perdomo has repurted that

he. has been unable to determine whether or nut

varona 13 in cantact with Celline, firm ot McLeary,

Adees, and Usburne, public relations brim las vegas, Nevada,

ur Edwarak. moss of Chase/ moss Intern'l... Barker

will beasked to ask varuna.

Sansenis has no

record of Julia celline or any other members at

the cellini family.

A Feb 13, 1961 a WAVE cable reports that

varona and festery met, with Barker interpreting, an

Feb 11. Discussed military matters.

A Feb 17, 1961 bAUE cable reports a meeting

on Feblo with varana, Artme, Itunt. Hunt taped

par" substantialli part of mtg. Discussed

military problems...

Javier

On Feb 17, 1961, Hunt, varona , Alvarez and maceo

went to Guatemala

A Feb 18, 196l R WAVE cable reports that

Juventino

Umberto Figueres: Gunzalez disclosed that Baez, Turmer

Cubana pilot and head Britannia plot

-, is reluctant to take

15 Feb trip to Nil and make pitch to Cubana crew until

he able assurethem they can count on sume financiel

assestance following plot.. WAVE plans on offering weach ot

o participants in flight

- flat #11,000 payment upon

arrival plane. in Guatema gECREl

---

## Page 27

SECKLI

-26=

It memo to the FBI, dated Feb 24, 1961

(aHen: S.J. Papich) reports thit info cIA had on

Cellin,, and requested info on Bernard Nucilli.

A Feb 28, 1961 to memo by Drabler states that

Droller and Napoli met with varondon Feb 17. On the

same day they had a meeting with both varona and

Ray. proller presented a list of 29 names frum which

they were to choose 10 fur. the prousional guu't. Ray

became upset. Also gave them a 7 puint program as

discussed with the Chief of the western Hemisphere

& Ray

Division. It was agreed that Varana: Would celin to

tetstrrgt...

…NY on Feb aG

to meet duith Artime, Carrello,

Chibas & Pazos and deade un names. They would return to DI

on march l... Droner makes the comment "we belleue varona

will play ball one way or another, but we are not cunvierced

that Ray will accept our list. We have the impression that

he might want to substitute his own lut, of course, we must see

what he comes up with. In any case it is our view that weshoul

not rush matters unduly if there is real state Dept interest

in having mr. Ray and company play a role in the provisiona!

government. should the decision be made to write Ray off, we

_believe the Assembly could be convoked without too much

ado, substituting miro (arduna fur Ray." conversation was

taped...

A memo for the record dated march?, 1961, by proller,

reports a march 6 meeting e of varona, Pay, a mr.

williard carr or march 6 inSE@REporeham. The meeting

---

## Page 28

SECRET

_27-

was taped. The presence of Mr. Carr was explained. " He would

preserve the contindity.of the Bender group whose

'seniar partner

he had been tute from the inception of the project i he would

also be a newface in as much as he has not been very "

active in the project fur the last four to fue months.

He was thereture asked by WitD. Chief to assume roleot

primary. negotator. in the establishment af a revolutionary

council. He agreed & was fully briefed by

& Droller.

A.. March al, 1961 dispadish reports that

miro cardona had given the following info

"It was unequivocal in criticizing varona for

recrusting notorious political gangsters, such as Gunzalez.

Cartas and tub Humberto Rodriguez Diaz (known

assassins and labor racketeers) as body guardl."

A marchay, 1461 Bell cable reports that

numerous

FBI reports Indicate Jesus Gonzalez Cartad alias

El Extrano as gangster murdener smuggler and arug

addict who dentical with Trainee 488a..Reportod

Sub; not rpt not to be wed reported also he li

one of varona's to bodyguards. The other is equally

Ibad."

April 10, 1961 cable reports that varona will be in

NIC all this week

ottice of secur ty

April 15, 1961 cable reports that Droller, Licari, and

rep will escort cardona from NNC to

Opa Locka on Apra 16..

All members will make flight

but Varcha who is now in miamir area. Upon arug !

OpaLocka, Cardona will go into SERlasun.

---

## Page 29

-28=

A April 25,1961 memo by proller reports that

varona called him on April al and requested 100

recruits now in w.Y. besent to duatemala. inio

also called. miro complained that whele he had promise

the pilots in Nicaragua 130 hardship pay an American

named "Joe" had made pauments of taro.

A May 15,1961 dispatch repurts that a cans of

exposed 35mm film taken from files confiscated fram.

varona's Radop. are beragent. Requests develop falm.

A may 19, 1961 dispatch

reports a may 16 meeting

Alberto de Jesus Alberty

of Gardyne with atte

22355

to discuss latestevents

and status of new pilots organizaten and the new naval

organizaton. At a maylo meeting the pilots (those

preulously in the training camps and others in the

miami area who agreed to

allend, Including recro

Alberto de Jesus Alberti

Diaz Lanz elected mana

bears to be chief of the

new cuban Air Force in exile

A may a), 1961 aspatch reports that Antonio

• Fernandez Gomez aka sintonio. Fergo is a close friend

of varona's and represents firm Publicidad Fergo-ArregoS.

Ud 8 of the varan file covers the period from

June 8, 1961 to Sept. 1970.

A memo by Droller, dated June 9,196 reports a

luncheon meeting with Cardona and Ernesto Aragun at

the mayflower Holel.

miro reported le meeting ot

miro, varona, and Aragon with Goodwin and mr.

Schlesinger, who professed confidence in mira. mure gave

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

29

Goodwin proposed budget for cec..

A June la, 1961 dispatch reports a rumorin miam.

that varona has ouer 8300,000 deposited in an unidentified

bank in miami... The source of funds is unknown.

A June 14, 1961 cable reports that Artime 1s

setting.up 5 rendevous points about 5 miles Outside Havana

Hakebor for extol/infol.ops.

A July 7,1961 memo by Droller repurts on payments

made to varang.

Varona is being paid #900/month. Varuna

was promised by-

Ithat he would recere support for.

operational plans and personal needs. May ao, 1960-payments

were discussed. at Hola. a00 as to go to chauffer - Francisco.

Zayas. Pal by Bender check - June 1. 1960 - NOU 1960.

From Nou 1960 to march 1961- paid directly in cash by Hun

April & may 1961 pala by Bender check from Hds.

Payments were in addition to salary from ERD. "As of July 3,

1961, I was ot the opiniun that we should not pay Varona

anything more under the table, but invlew of the special

Group decision, if I am correctly informed, of encouraging

our dealings with numerous Cuban groups and personalities

it might be wise to keep in touch with varona for sume

time and pay him some reasonable amt as nothing cements

friendships better than money." Routing Ship contains nemarl

that we should hold off. varona is one of must bitter...

creties..

"I don't prosa propose to buy him olf.

---

## Page 31

-30 SECRET

On July 7, 1961 Varona called the CIA

has been designated as replacement fur Jerry Droller in

liaison matters with cardana.

A July 10, 1961 dispatch reports that major

Roberte. li van Horn USAF, assistant air attache

to Cuba assigned tu. the miami area to be liaison

with. Cuban. pilots. in miam..

A July 7, 1961 memo for record b

reports a contact with

varona. varona is m 0.c.

staying at the Roosevelt Hotel. He will be in D.C.

for three a four days.

used name of

Raymond Clark. varona asked several questions re state of

affairs, but received no answers. Asked how to get in

touch with ben. Tayler and was told to go through mr. Goodwi

On July 11, 1961 varuna requested muney for 3

prisoners who werestranded at the mariott.

..Answer: No.

On July a6, 1a61 a meeting of FRD members was held.

They tried to oust varona and fight started. Police came

and arrested several people.

_Allonso

Vincent Rafeel Zorcila J

.. Tarabochia, deputy

sheriff in miami, told per

→ that no charges would

I be pressed. Police only took acton against people criticizing

Varan a...

- Tarabochia held over.

_ hr. conversation with varang

Report from miami.

A Sept 9, 1961 cable from miami seports the cRe

and the FRD

will merge around sept 15. Miro will

be head and varona second.

SECRET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

-31-

A CRC meeting was held on Oct 9,196l In NiC $

varona was present.

Vorona uisited San Jose on Aug 17,1962.

On Aug 15, 1962 Varona visited President Roberto

Chiari of panama and requested a meeting of central America.

chiets of State on Cuban issue Rumor in miami that efforts.

are being made to conunce fresident Chiari to permit

the establishment in Panama of Cuban gou't inerile.

On Aug ay varona returned to miami

On. Oct 31,1962 Varona had a meeting with Hurwitch

in washington.

on Deca, 1962, varonamet. with pres morales of Honduras

and.several.other.

leaders of cuban group. varona made

a lengthy statement that the CIA was responsible fur the

current lack of acturty and that the CIA was working

behind back of kennedy.

OnJan 11, 1963, varona departed fur SanJose.

An information report, dated Jan 17, 1963 state, that while

varora was is Costa Rica an unnamed large landowner

in costa Rica went to the Rescate miam.. Hag. to discuss

the leasing af some of his coastal land in costa Rica

so varone. varona was critated de learn the man

had called in his absence.

OnSept 16, 1963

- Dr martin pella met with varona

& Luis Botifol in Chicago. Pella informed Varona $

Botifot were dscussing the possibility of setting up an

export-import business.

fur trade with Latin America witt

Hyman Berg, a chicago automative parts man known to

SECRET

---

## Page 33

SECRET

32

have sold jeeps a parts to castro n59 and 60.

Told Pella they were broke and frustrated. Varona told

Pella he raninto Paolino Sierra in Nicaragua.

who had a sole af $10,000. He told varona he was.

being backed by big. business in Chicago and was

in a position to get millions for an anti- Castro reudution.

Feb 22,1964 cross-reference sheet states that

Varona's right-hand nan is mario del Canal ferrer.

On June 7, 1965. Varona moued fran. miam.

to ul and became auto salesman.

A 1970 cable (Sept) reports that varonz, Carlos

m. Torres and Enrique H. de Franco are supporting.

march to D.C. on behalf of cuban revolutionary party

in northern u.S. True purpose is to picket white House.

with slogans.. Freedom of the seas and freedem fur Basch.

Apral 24,1961 report by Robert F. Muroney, re

custody of Revolutionary (ounal... 19-20 April 19611 describes

meetings with JFK atter Bay of Pigs.

volT of varona's file is a Brograftic file.

1 It contains answers to question 36 thru 58 on varanz's

PRQII. Varona was first introduced to palinger in may

1957.

wallace A. Growery 7 Varona's case officer...

varona was classified as an

'"indigenou field agent.""

On B a Aug 28, 1959 operational approval was amended

for:

use of

varona

PP agent in Project

Fureign Intelligence repurting

Asset.

SEGRET

---

## Page 34

7

SECRET

33-

On Aprol 23, 1963 a meeting was held with

Varona to aduse him of liquidation of CRC..

A document cross ret. re miami visit of

Emile Heneeval, dated April a9, 1963. States that

varana. was very pro American.. and when asked

about kennedy's Administration", Tony was amzzing?

Father knows best.

...................--.-...

.......

..."

SECRET

---

