# 180-10147-10022

## Page 1

180-10147-10022

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

3111157

Date: Ture 13, 1978

Interviewed. dy: Piley Moldenell and Behry Nolf

teratiod

He citertie

Tell : 435-173-81

ts the thef of 5e and We nud to tie live if Sitter

powder a minis dited 11/25/05 WheWs

witties

to Patter P Heltezur encersing

sessed

puis interit is tee Henry Oswald. Thee downet

as the itses fid on questioning

Malligar stated that in 1963 the sewed as thief of the sorit

Section of the

statise unde deptrinate sure. He explai

that

was also an office in the

stition dut te

sived under

and Worked

посяз It-outs is make contact with others in the

statione.

Die to the nature of this margenest, lasack frezuetty

With minal men such as the ole i t435-113-4 shk

were then passed aling to the station. Tee menes lild the

he fouarded to Headquarters, generally iy Halizes. I.

this particule wit?

who served under Maltizan,

the legital at the tire. PROHIBITED

Halt gas expressed the fillewrag powers of

2

0003356

PAGE

COPI

9

10147-10022

---

## Page 2

3111158

beforette.

Wine trif of the b tret wate ile transfer

REPRODÚCTION

fame of operations viles

it wald have made uttact trong the ffee.

Move, stigar stated that it resely wors ast stalent ple-

ting procedure to intere

der to 2 assety

if retois such an a act of people ollie up incalls atte

Jet that these lashe would have faller it the juditos

of the FBI.

- DALIS was the ryptonyin for the State Departinent Maligan

explained that it was not unusual that

A State Departness despatch In DiWali aN it WOUld have beeR

notice to selle site if state Repartsucet mines.

metection of devig diceaned the swald con'in

Sunsoner 1960" as stated is the mered, silest bave been a siles.

- BI refers to trigraphic apriatios.

DO Kite Preterd, his

that de was phases it end a to chi.

циеки to fiddlse

Headquarters agnisest withis DDP.

0003357

3

PAGE

COPY NO.

0f

---

## Page 3

West sa trius quide wiis he maine he cited a desse

Is the sure 1762 dad ted wile we pissed Is for it the.

to coupee was eventilly decree as the ivenes ifese. Nettizes

leave the dover Wes as ast mary solt we were penite

to cleare during that tie pelice.

-Naltiger was puplesed as to the sepuence is le they stay

i the had ure of the mess. te ust tiled heat it sit dive.

been a typsgraperal in wher should cle best the "Oswele

two othe referees to bawds will riss it unley thes

with, resput is the refine. He could tect of as expiration

for tiss, nor depr

RÉP RUN CH

repling to lucassa storet.

itis. polat

3111159

PROHIBITED

Hattizas recalled that he arred in

for ile it grimet

is Jure, 1962 And Liht

pistibly arrived there is Sistentee

of the same year. Anilges stated tist is had ith were ait;

numers to the effect bat osweed thad ile wed my in lin t

any tine. He felt that deerse of the argenests wither the

Ageney, he would have ten is a posiza. to diatur it bsured

Fille there fore.

in TaRan W35 1951-1755 Rad biat

•0003358

PAGE

c2

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 4

1155 1 1458 51959.

mananagra

Mattigar avised that spp9 was respirible for mistering it

Wa Nerds will they hept it the see Me as doo tie.

they would ie able to cheet it through the fles. Hwese, Agency as -

statese Would not il duectly refleted i a 201 fele Meters,

the world de pile i it it then i ass, file a wich

queratinal infunction would he stored. Waltegor chaplaces that t

201 like downeate the pesos cheet inst Whet the pless k dolly:

0)

He reduraval. A lie live; ar the stu hand, sellets the spatel

viest is refteed as a 201 fle pening shet and that it,

go to thet tuared to siee spential fration.

When asked about the sigufüanse of OlsIt operag Osalie 201

5

0003359

PAGE

COPX NO.

9

---

## Page 5

Haltigen was A Bietet quai in mitte

ie 201 file and ther umwung the pitrect lernatist fon tie

E2il flée Maltagan stated ist te dols not diese of Wis type of leig

sensag is ils ripeneree. He stated tet ue marie nacce war

iliata for te pisteise of the spedites and site ied thet 5/9 12

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

3111161

SECRETI

OU03360

PAGE

COPY NO.

6

---

