# 180-10142-10127

## Page 1

180-10142-10127

Note

Ask

Ask

Ask

Mysels

what

progret fire

Who farad

What if

fund.

Asle: ident.ty

5-15

#3

demo in Dec. 6955

anyactions takers wheastwas

ClA

intremend. Now. 24,196.

such aget the waste Nor-24 192%

Go back to ted for litie

New call ly att

bullet.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

10142-10129

---

## Page 2

Drasist teani leader, a Ka. RSHARK

put it fle well soon De 25

sach aschone a that it siliter only wah

Oswald - alone t

OswAiD - Activities in Moxi

but the interiling raged f the Vite-up it

the is yeshing us Do theor

Beguing with p. 29

What Chimitle did to investigate plong

Results

Chilisinos

---

## Page 3

Setter i 214172, to

Agency a regg ti

Did the Central Jatell gore percy alrite the Scorte

¡Intelligence Committed that no

Investigation dies the Cabana!

Niu. 22,1963 flight Was Conducted?

inful tri if the

centure intelligent s

Letter to the senate ditChgee Critter the Cruml...

chas detinuud thit the deite Intelligence Regent's

flight delay, althrugh there wis no recorded resgruse.

Bad the Genied Intelligence ageuey further Energie the infit"

The initine Sillagene ages fenderled regree

sunrienner

perided tiesighs: I conversations frich the Cutes ffice

---

## Page 4

to a registe five-how diling f a Clama flight. ferme icine

Gly to Here the evening @ Primitat heredy's osaitin;

Pervember 22, 1963. Eserati Intelligene, Compiltie Piroirl, April 3, 1196, g30)

Ihe. mast intugang asget I the got was that the uggiriii..

delay was to ivant insel at 18:30$M 65420 guanit

Have in the gulat's caten.. Cited pottin) ihe demate intelligen.

Cemattie white that the contend dilligenes: ages had no

detense. the identily. I the passages and hed no frither. infor

ahon on the passinger, and as ebplastion for why a feeling

enducted", tat fore

citigato

investigato sergie? i what. we the wants of the

investigator; ad, were thiy genen to the derate Stil gie.

In. an attengt to inquer the questero gran

selet Crimitic: o... Assassinatons had dise the felierg

1) Crudicted an estinave piness f the Centend brilligence

Agery. files that gertain to the Remember, 22,1965

Cabaron

the fatmit asterio girl

November 22, Has labor 1 Eagle.

Tas Gatech melated. the

---

## Page 5

b) Ihe Cubama flight dingentind at 2055 homes Tite

City hore, 55 maintes chand diche "allegend"

at 2130 tomat a guate flinget with a sierit

Caber fleget degenter t 3200

Were the Results of the centrel Intelliginde

Investigation given fo the Sonate Intelligence Gementle?

Unfriteritly, the sente Stillgere Cimmitler

en andy gren the infinit regisine er co

Jhe eilenl

to reichen

warte the conten met le the its ...

Ehre alligal....

---

