# 180-10141-10240

## Page 1

180-10141-10240]

SECRET

OLC 78-1065/29

22 May 1978

gres-none

Workey

Box 13

Folder 15

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Shepanek

0/SA/DO/0

FROM

SUBJECT

: Mr. Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/C&R

Sanitization of HSCA Researcher Notes

1. (S) Attached for your review, appropriate sanitization, and

classification is a copy of the notes taken by HSCA researcher Beth Anne

Lichtenfels on her review of files on De Mohrenschildt.

2. (U) Please use black grease pencil to excise and directly above

the excised information please write in a sanitized description of the

information excised, for example: employee, asset, etc.

(U) Please send us a copy of the notes after your sanitization

and we will forward to the Committee. All original notes will be kept in this

office under the name of the particular researcher involved.

Rodger S. Gabrielson

firs

Attachment:

As Stated

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee:

1 - OLC Subject

1 - OLC Chron

OLC: RSG: jms (22 May 78)

SECRET

141-10240

---

## Page 2

Til 3

I Maksenschiedt.

tense usappeded in tipsie 14,1951, disastery

I begras i Jesuse warked for kem from

Sept 6, 1953- Cipit 14, 195% At upout Matice

Hersed-fashion reparter

Freik- Eligadech Electand, custer fon a

trade publication

massed

a tence applicatos tags clab

ches

.1914

Pades. 1914

illine still lesson der to berge.

Hares to says filen serial

diB. May i, 1219.

t37.00 icines that been

Man Cale selly-supercon Milling lipt

Hange, Hassen

sand Jeet

sent die i threeties cand telery her they

Ls is lette tense in the tide of a morator

in haits ind recaed mail thee Ciner

embarry

---

## Page 3

May E Clash, Herry Magaty

Cal. Licene Chen (aregates a de mis)

Louis MENaughton

In Ich 1763- dim acked Judge Dusal if te

cauld help a young mean get his ces-

than changes- said he was from boat?

work, had defected to Cussin and had Me.

turned. Üttempted but saved hat leach

Yoring man. Matter dripped.

/ da to ta mera high tune acad

in Make Cing-(The kayan?)

em tarrin

at 900,000 am Raigosadi

te decles i corp. which wald develays

commensual rescuices la Haiti

to Dicked

in carly 1957)

Jay Tiger sens de M 1f te ku been in Yugo-

It sane time dee to phere th had seen

Ide m had saurs account of 128010-,t Hat

Baid of tallas

---

## Page 4

What tahles-greend, tilence Jivan

I Mi entered Haite of tourist card-sat parapont

2' mer 1H0 thraugh D. Baukle

it moses cut yuck.

Interine if Day laytor

ain came to houre worked to Tate Dep

In mid i933's

"Jole I-5'9:"-135

in whee he stated te has been forced to

four the Crummuness party enhile leung in

Lussia- icternative =death

Mr Mom Sards- Manages of Pithin County Linsees.

a Cure of Caper Sunder and Supply i. Laid

there has neer then in tete tris

is Rangely Supply Co at Copen

Report of James curse: 3/11/04.

On 1/u3 hi cate letter l aquaintere

Hence-said Mat Card toed him, too

was. aik-was of impression Cland his

teen a 7831

---

## Page 5

-Ras iffice in Republic Hat. Bank Dely. Kn

1639-40 y0071 Kept 3954-May 954-May38, 75%

'Chiltin Extine Keach found-Tilles by Stasple

7s.

He Saksey Quester-part derer of Ceter

Did met to in Aa2. It had assured at Sin

home in incidle of dinner but did at eat. Ciftes

denne it, sent Austic went to at keese an

nearly. lildy in Sacles i shauld a film caressing

entire

trep thee Mikes. Auctin did nas tack te

se him again.

Cal.

time ate i trying the assad a den

marina from Co.

Resume states le has special connections is gout

31Agensy ABi Area dates 3/3/44

7Bi Report 310144- Päled-Bein

2/21/64

13-R

ly. retaurantee in ter

---

## Page 6

Russian

Student Fend

ageney cixg

28/6/05-Phiely

22/4/45-Phoesee: 7131

# 10 g / /e400 - 32965

24/2/04 Phelly,00.329

# 05-146 105-10229 (freed

100-329

(Busara,

26/3/44

100-32945 Busean

@Phoenix 24/3/44 # PX 100-2995

100-3296534

3 New Youh 25/3/64 NY 100-10310

O New Orleans

2573/604

105-2150 105-2154

100-32965-Bureau

024/8/44-DC -Noi

Boston 24/3/64

105-11242

100-3296554

Stake Doe. Memo of Cores. Suh: Unct to

24/4/64

$571

511/44 born Bene

ABI doe: 17/4/64 a 6M 105-632 Greed

100-32965-Budan

---

## Page 7

report

7Bi Doc. MY 15/4/04 CdeM 100-10310 full 100322965

7B1 Cepiat-Philly 14/4/604 DeGLeM 105-146105-1022;

7B1 Keport-Dallas

13)4/4m gdem 105-10766-646

100-32965-54s

931 Report MY 24/04 148 100:10310 fired -

100-32965 Bureau

931 Report Chicago

1/4/6t Gle 105-123 que

100-32965

11

DC

often mated balecki

eM = member of Petricile Dub-play

tennis

'Hes- mambers of Xtaff of ly buses ferin

had attended a discussion gip in 19003 k CHe

was there,

Nor 4 1981 tentenced by tribunes Consechoin

at Antwerp to 8 daup on preom on cig of beauting

a police officert s days on fose of 182 frame

for drunker dreing a lse of false name. - Sy

FBI Kyat 28/2/64-Dem Contact up.

deda Neckerich Barasn - Somer Deplo in

SC. Alcheerich made of Soner State

Juany force sence mid 1940's perced in Cuba

Malyn Wilcap- Pan Cm employes, lessed

from Jeant dugance lavel that AT Wan a

good

freend of Cakest MElha.on tap Pan

im ashuiat

---

## Page 8

Is 08301 May a call was made to Mas Master

to confirm a Chat de on it on tha

day in that a meeting had bee asranged of an

agency rep for 12 noon. Ma. Marlier Re-

torted That DiD had called her That Dresn

evening to conferm a 12:00 lunch appt i

her. Mas. Marack was concerned that CiA

* ai should at be taking at eles

purposes. the had seceed authorgation fron

FeBl: to meet Charles at Curch a Delt If

mere meete to a onto ten Charles

WH. Quisen colt

wanted meeting

Then changed to afternoon -Cate

Marlack beered that dee to conflecting

mstructions the had been placed in middle

Marlack-Somesti Exploitation See. AeSI

Gaelas, find om was there at the tence

+ try

to make a cossection." tendes jat

wanted to aleat us.

stachment from RoR dated 414/77 from

---

## Page 9

eat mention De

tey mention thes gom saw yur is rips to in

My Times all. 20/se/63 asters of

Russel MLasing on this y threating gol

sprawling over where tts leved?

Thes Teller-Kussian Wife

Signed Mario Anderom petton-beleced

I have 1% a Comm. In DC Aber on lit

ba descement of blacks.

Im paid to have detailed paston of Marker

defences at Casper Cheat.

1911-1920-45512

1930-1987 Belguim

1920-1930-Poland

1938-USA

Pardo de faren, Lilia - Alengly leved in S0m.

Agery

- 2 letters 1 from ten to state

10/19/62

I to sem fam State 10/22/62

Stace -1957 Invest

+31 194142444547 lf mti

Cil Service

1957 truest.

---

## Page 10

xcy -Capy of 1942 ON1 Arueat. k 1943

mers

=enccat.

Niemo to Ckrank Stove Xrom WUßkINy-Hactian Open.

april 261963

Aer if Oper-Cirticce wsitton in Le Morteuer 3/18/03

sating that IM Was awarded $210, 000 + a

ye apten for a concescion on secsel

Dem claems ke has done gealag. wark

He Thand ng an aeehme be e Suabrer

desecedat dn meestong dhe de M

loaled arosend the boom t over he sherlle

I shid"my cosescction uy thes is, of coudse,

enfedental: Corkd491Men.of ferianeee

Helve bayer to gacn concercion.,

WUBKINYlI said Mh. Charlea+I0M were

aupcato to decclop a Hof bisiness intereats in

Haite meled. an offec in de's baah wliih

wrlt enter into eai fendniny & wauld buy

sme ne lent canenanie upe tueey"

aeniney that the 3'd partner waldition

to Charle a SeM.-A Hrerchman is Aeey

sundald beer hes up fa

wuBlrayl to meed hem o Mnday. M. Chadles

Racd yit ts has oppraplcate fer a barke to

cad for

WuBKIrys saed de M saught eery avaclak

handont in his iffere-

---

## Page 11

businers.

applicarm for emplayment 1- Mey Co4 (?)

When emplayed by harmet SA Edifices

Жекго DK Mexico-ded work

lu Cuba.

gom a baluchi at Ayora Beach 35 miles

autude of port an Prince

Who is Mas. Jerkelatien?

realed coit

which he said he could trans anywhere

a the republic upo prob.

April 21 944- Letter to Mr. Pocca- quertones

whether we (CiA?) had hand no blackballing

2 dem.

lement&

JCD

documents- repost stating Chales Wanted

Do deal us US gour affecal no de M.

Mero-suk: C.J.Charles 20/mayas

a and appt to

ten seatin

it Cong. Bage according to

---

## Page 12

Seps 281967- Menco Judy- Barsen Saeat.

py 6 queries grom Justice Lepe-

Key cen iscoe up Dem. No

Ex 7831 lgest 20. Pusser. SoM may Race dean

LA's CiA balipecter an Saclas

desplaced for asS emph- sulp of Hagi agent

quey is 196.d

Jane tem-explayed as recept. by

cover pray. NCRE from 1956-1951

Apree 11958 for explactatio as cretics for

foreign intell on a lemited lass-lat

to leave classifeed into chase confid.

lown of duty 1p 055 1942-45

GAM truestig by 7131 1941, 42,45-47 57.

140-42- Consedered to be phe Jerma.

suspected of reperage det repig

Pable degry Names- Icklumberger Were

Jurying Corp. (Houston Jaer fourie

Ouca Castro, Mayagues PR.

We Pertiming - ded Nat A 4 440 Aft 419163 clin

they lift for My Philly IC.

---

## Page 13

made thru Qura Maran

DOD

Ique for date in Call to by ba tele p

Interesting that Allers enterese in on caenecked if

enlia postion of this thep i into waled sugger the

passibly Aller tom were passibly i sance ex-

veront i DC Cra de April 63.

• State Sept asgram 004-153 10/22/63 Cantaine

results o and interce ay Im also Indicates That

No Qued up Millers in Saceas. (una Teller)

Mer.

Melle worked for Sangers Deps. Stare.

? Ruct Paine as daughter of COnQuery Hyde OSC-15743

wins was being considered for cavest use by

Io two. bul did has seceive security Cleran

Mersige fan Past Cu Rence: Oct 19, 666

I go A left for Hacti adorra Mesa Ore -

o lested on crew as taler wife as cook

I toes tarm appier 10. des Plans, Ceters

Saclan Lept Hacti up several months lent

ипры

Chevalien Bands, Cre. 730 549 Que MY employ-

ed GoM an alleged mage agent

Bain don Maybere-head of tacts & Dilms Molon

poseble aka Margerskaed

---

## Page 14

Nems 18/3/22 from Arela Qued 0.

Man, Serkui meting. Sucker al-

I month < JAK assass. Juken kaid it

was coron knowledge that the CA.

had offices there y Morses Bishop was an

alias of f Monke

Begin a DCO

---

## Page 15

vol /

agency. XAAZ-27215: 80/12/23 Office of See

Sat Cugram 20 A -406 "14/43 Jhem Part autine

sub. US Businen Man lignes contract ay tectran

Gon't a local Bank

State Gurgram 10 6-22 2/2/01 fran Corben,

Sace Rungram 18. 119 27/1161 Jrm Geekardh

Are. from Os dated 2/4/58, 1/9/08,19/2/58

nel lei IM.

761 die 30/1/03 nefo pros. by lorence hi Don.

State Gigram 1-295- 25/4/63 from Glee!

Caronon: Luck: Egyptians repartedly

State Curgiam

10/12/63 2e:dem

engram 7-153 20/12/43 2nduderurid

9B) Dor 20/12/63 se foG dem

quather note

aced dee 21 (ko ys) Past 1279 luggage nat

respected

(dug

A35-Eis interes)

this person stayer at Calls

ame

Jay id wout everengagent

Net had been dating - ded eat test hem.

xpeculation- dem asce a Mohammed seems

---

## Page 16

tigers mally necessing but dangines.

May 2,43-SeM drops into LUSALINE Say, M

Chance has retursed is Mait; t is Descridly being

insidered as nept presedent.

761 Here jam Hares to Canker: 3/23/64

Reference is made to epire letter dated say

Wheres you request i full-scale intell-type

indestig.. concerning. Gigan.

In we of the present bedens of the

debo in Hate. their presos trans thie

Need Central Amera you may deace to

Reports prepared by IBI -

Керан a

bate

.yon

02/28/64

fo Hace

McMeramin

ime.

5. Weir

Games 7 Mosseskey

warren de Biney

fernes

C Kennedy

# Whillere

Weis

Г. К.

wineberg

John

I'ltugh

Rob

Baker

11

3)1/6+

3/0/44

3/3/4Y

3/4/64

2 Kuarell Hackman

3/6

office

Salbas

Serve

Hausten

DC

New Orlean

Jan Antones

Here ton

phel.

Jan fra

Jan Dregi

Server

---

## Page 17

pinces. France

Kao Mappal

3/121 New to Yours

3/10

New Haven

Elisago

02/2j

R. B Kellog

3/14

Miance

James 1048

Dallas

kpe # 653)449,117 trps Kept Roforn

Suck: Jell. Airis. if We-Hasin Trading Co.

June July 140-prafets of At Hare were

being transferred I a special you fun

for denoming clandestine operatoes.

HAR Gout used company for "llegal"

transaction to suck as tade up trance on

buse of connen feet

77.10%

fo C. Mohammed Sharina der of C

reposted to have engaged in latell op. durin

precons assignt as manage of lil Com.

Memo 1/30/42 from Ence, to sergi Serves

Comm Vanderbet

mer dim said he was sep an tish belin

co dessebeting films taken wnde the

dupples o Dueak your dening Spen. Cia.

Xes uncle's place was racked shordly there

apter. at see suggestion of a freend of mere

forend many pelms if i pro lazi natur

wetended to show force t

electres of berma g

---

## Page 18

office y perage Teruces quee 26. 1942

1 es. impa fairis to slare on deficate

for andche: creek a 2. In the meantime, of you

decide to accept the Key, offer, pleace adule

un where you can be reached!.

Wm landerblt

quee

23, 942-

letter to land: Offering yers a.

rescine. Mention "news exciting buseness

enteiprese la Mex"

resumé, states de was forega corses

of 2 Polish Neop. a Collaborated a Polish

officia Press age.

Hes 1941- Caclad up Seps of Ein Laps + French

Sour

Letter May 25, 1942 to Vander. Satrig Mr.

May 19 1942- from Kalent Clearn to Vanda.

"Here in anathe hon cityen who looks

like good material"

Note:

applecation -oss Character lef-

w. Carmichael- 630599 Gue MY

My Deskos

1799.79451

Mas Tille

1148 582 Que

A. Parsaidse

2 Sutton P.

Helped dene emere it teres

may go w Cordiffell Comm

---

## Page 19

Volt Nukamad Zaid 1/12/01

And to have connections cy Castro of Kucke

Repress Ben. Earner a Hang So a Kicie

GIM was prevent at Mtt and mit duced to to group

agency. Gif deM. 13/02 Seceas - 981

salicki -palial commercial rep in Haiti Judgest

(de M) las also been on clace terms uy Necolas I

Roude a suspected Soviet Agent.

PB PRIME (US?)

EUMINOR/I - .

Jack Penderille-Verezuel.

232 Cleran 1d London Sol

RM Aglehant

3824 Swers Bed.

Daclas

M/M Frankler GEnesia.

PO BAY 96

dietn lova

wald

32 Budger. Kd

Medfard lea

---

## Page 20

14/059 4272

charlery furatier leassed of hes

Eate as jet ede in her if ia

life

by

17 m i902" Hoose tree with

Cuban

Bak Jerker-WEAR TV- iduced that a

had repassed that he had met ay a

agent. named Masses Desha,

the 50511 Ere billin

a maich hepic asses. I at that teri

the can agent had appened to te CAtt

Indiledge that Cant had affects in

Marker terre in taclan as wit emplay

Casting i Record Thet

as a fermen contact of the tale en

whom there in headyts. fele

check in De.

---

## Page 21

turing WWIt he worked In US O

rehaf a French telligence, a fact

shep w/ Charles of taiti indical the Literat

ger receing a friendship a them Stealt

we met of charles In Ly of he request

What shaved i do y

hules shams up in campany of eden..

Caned haw made Kep. to DC Nw 13: 195).

501 5 - Eruen

Werner - lecting in Harti: ay

Mess Sere Somatt

Dearge Eleven I Muelan Crete fr

Lat. Even. Pase

---

## Page 22

judana, deposi

George i hitheel

2-28-42 file 191-21

3-9-412

N:: 1901-18

4-10-421

101-13.7

+1-42-11-2307

574/44 40 1Y by SAid

Perry Leni

7i deport: Ja Diase termin

1X.1/43

17-1416 BUF

77-4877

17/24/13

11-1: 5-3

12/1/5-3- Jehn Mabey

d'in wind stand alleged gie.

* Cranet agent un depends in arkin

dinarsen.

Kast untiket.

it aline

mine metres doe

Pease teepti intect

In endy en is son seen pe

ut greeting thim ahead

Hap, alls in up you - has there bee any

fam'Dam" See 81984 -

lence Bernse has.

"came ful

---

## Page 23

Did 2-30 degry

2B31 lept f it fames losin

prit 21, 1935 = treate israe

731 Regar af 517 James Wen

at /tariston: 2/24/17 100-32165

7B1. !!

Rinsee Hitio

it deceie: 3/6/64 100132165

Vil has regated ion sile her deaf?

clarifie

-....--

in... .

---

