# 180-10143-10332

## Page 1

180-10143-10332

Ung 31928.

•JFK BOX

FOLDER

29

16

Suspicktengels

SECRET

0003418

100 Moore i Wartos Frase

sace

Per TSINETHO - ANeS I.

13111401

Quy Lip: 1915

Presaparatio Pareitin ai Pengtas Distrik

= july 1948 Kens for

the ecoss

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Ax jure 20 after Bayng a Sas a $250,000

(2i Haitia Bois) (hand punted in)

US dept if quatece -INS Meanni Dea

dec: 241946 = DOr 4/21/23

July 17, 1966: 003-113/66

Kay 3, 194) - 003 7/21/23

Sc 41746- D0B 1/31/32

Vis 19, 1966

10143-10332

Klain:

---

## Page 2

palang info fine 4 tepper

priate.

cinatant

for paver apter the face of sualir they an googh

Limard Charles-Tresciat a Bactan Land of Comme a

Nuuster of fillie Warka: Ole 3 as outeastly pro-

inalerist these ar no segue that they intend 'e

thy and overthur Surchis timedie.

Japh X Charles has the Xappack if former

incatant genere riseite son figlie Ligle i

luceresener in ilit da Presse

Fy aristo

3239

кал в д. склик вілет 1 Дер е сану

Eping duralier ipermed de

inefait.

dara

JuS papess - 2/4/166

GUU3417

entex place y almacin 4/28/6ú lyc

Casafies Miccage Kane 00 94.6

Ci Claude Reynad In Dare Leportane Parten

Bures Unio Meni delus di lis pacate dessig

tire Quanty Apples US Garlate iI Jud

---

## Page 3

SECRET

istein tip Miner Charles

Hactan Embasis ICoiculatia Xeperately Cranket

was for try to Eclape:

Better to Six-N N7BL

tom: Dis y Plans.

1141A03

inted in TAiSS - 312/00912-44 detailer 91904

indi tripion i the dealing a Buying Celebr

Haiti:

Chance wis yreupically repented to as

Sul

Lander i finical marge lules use regarded as

leing very was to the pare haung tendly de

Hat's tilemm septem (a a resuch of the contact =

Crule was also pres of Hactica Danasa Corp: oug

bucking that Renter Gents Que lete.

us bery Selaitt ishe was de

ince indus the More to belined ti

charles hathet nan - diverfecation

VUU3418

ANS.

4/11/46

25 addies

Hairan Cars: NyC

SECRET

---

## Page 4

dato deport - CLA +005-304/0631-

tudy: Chai

tivice

11111404

done lead that i reportedly presti

be sea y Commencial Bankin Hach thi Legateste

Kunding better yendit t jay for it burst eninen

Huge atind is entic pounces

4300,00

the offer Offered esti

ipe initialle Fireato Darn Jewel

of whick he lisane Ben lgeur en 1948,

1953 - went to forens ara Mender af n Meren

int to Eng by Hashan Set x Leg: me ee a Instrect ay G

i County.

1952: appe skinde of Een Mense la Setit

enf: hill in bruere

1960- Crater Banque Connerule d'tact if

Pies i Chamber f Immens i. Hack

jack Buse of Cannes

Tree Net. Ichy Bend - MY

Laung Trave

LYSECRET

0603419

I'Nat of Bister

Bostor

---

## Page 5

INS:

13-60

SECRET

Us

3105-: 12/13/64.

11111405

Селятри

Mecsagi-.Non.10196t

sen mail interpted done dies of listine

Данког

Le: re

Жоватті"

tact

nueer Fayed, deM + Valish, up Gatecki

CiA Life Celle: Ock 9194 tequires Me Jacle

Duping disclaps der Haits

Реіи

dit acquired - US, IKaix

Ver 9, 190%

sa gorm

pulitary officer a tracked teporti.

"In as alant le 3190% the Curation Acrester

the pais

slumbian

lility of buying a.C-119 Circlafe fm Xie

yout the sce was made by keymand (Rat

mereston

es explayes, who agreed to incentigate the

priposed

scape pushes

1 duo tolera secued i Celeston Can

gim a man who to lemoef as Clash' phone ti

le: presides purchan of a 151 incape adensible,

at the

signers Olds in Mean to cars boch

0u03420

who me

became

у кател мут пку. на Кап, сво в

miludin

Coc, weed comment Unatte toute

1 reporad that Charto had unsuccentull

tempted to buy a T-25 date in Canesea

---

## Page 6

Dr Transfer i Craso Ly.

SECRET

Cari 24,904

11111406

wales his influence if tuvales leportidly he k

Way acid uns thi de Ms in their actrectes in Hat.

We Prasafer

Nay 21 1 963

di sext pica.

liams May 11 1e3

produced a lette penn Un Sex Celess (40(JA1

" introduchmen Chanti. que to critical pencie

Expen ti lack go me- cy Chicles alulity. Cherles

Lies unable li make inacker tip to DE lo vee Att

i asked his grend i buoes partie

Offer.

Dalap trends "

made comming hi esper Signed, Jay 3C Resie

0003421

SECRE

---

## Page 7

Kiy 101963 Men,

SECRET

Apur 291963- Barche Marlack, dareshe Explo

Lenn Acs telephones. in the ipper that i banker

saved chlues has like Hait to lay cation "had

just its in vy

2111404

m tail ni lecami t

Pur Sheraton vy chad ld vince ho kame had

in BJ, Sen Keateng + Cong Rejen Cle wellerg 1

trid to teps if Maklech, office Mattach sud

i Went them beach Dryer had appt oft an dediter

of kis bank in Hait

Charles wanted to sa fCk went to

White Have recumed by special agate.

May 31963 dilan reported a: 5 Kaun

if bufo rest tô 4esi witdes. * Later Ame Branin

Meeting Leld up den+ CC - (as pres este,

AID te discuss Us and to Hait: Leguest pared.

ng 10 Sate 1 Ragone And called her bick

1 pass neg, to the Haction desk mans extrem

"pleasin that wine in the US would

"i clse to diVale?

colt duan and as a sisue i neeting i @CYa

---

## Page 8

engule inca Cp. Dad nes, was concersed that

Charles. Tate said Hell was satisfied with handling

Nahail was of the opinim that US should play bah

agned At Czaykorish

11111408

Enclosed. in

per enuelope "Plan for the Conx Social Neu.

of Haiti

by sige

Sentine-Penchen -edwar to Bingue Crum.

di PaP. (taken fom Summary of /tacter

"o by Geesn"

Backlet

1963

D0S...4/21/23

Kepoxt CUA May 101963.

- 00B - 3,260, 765

steve

Scitizin formal foresnalis

now intenren.

De themes this i the

last change for Us to save tact.

pusical xupporters. -

Cous

Pruns ter of Commerce + Industry. x a

good preend - (in dide pame critter -Ambrose I HAKET

1201-3454671 taed the 731 m NaN 62 that Deans

2 card carrying Communet in Gout)

Pret- former achen mulitary attache en UC

was it made predent he would accep

See of Anarceit

en Affair. Present Sic -Herie

Resorbed

his lefties tendencies (Written in: HArruETT

Biryes do the 2' Card daring Comme

SECRET

0003423

"The tyrant (duCeles) may

i illed py the ainy

"befire 22, May 1963

---

## Page 9

May 91963

Cartart Kept. SEGRET

by OdeM althorgh no replan: was guer

signe 11 7an13 Stose

11tr 1409

dal w piS officials unt 5 de M. Kaised any

trecho a trang in baiti.

0) Bank in Port-au-Penei

UP 2Bf Liggented Cl desue - Xhis matt

a/ Edmuni Gire, AID, State depe. Ior purpae of

insulahm u/ let a meting of collegues

"rendo of CA Daleg" Chartin fleu to DC a

Memo

May 2963 Kepeat 2Y 2147-3 7o 00-4(3)

Gaykuski Balay

The dellato concerg CC storts

just as pluid is ditata in Haiti CAl adua

that he fazend f Matace Dee what I meig

oy pluid?"

nux changed his hame plano to D

fieteas à uesday l (Argei) non expecto to be

in DC Sein a Inday CIC mented h wrld ke

tine ts quiet

ustede

---

## Page 10

again the.

dis the ling is a sala

mating

11111410

May 3 Memo grom Belog NY -2128-3

u his requestm May 31903 we had an additio

place as iron di ing be tale

ki could nit de kim ael the weekend but cire

That dives plans to meten DC jacquelin

Velma 3/30 PSt, a taund of MiHacks 40

discuss things.

mit interest t that

ten nat

di 272 Just

$ DDO

Crease Contasy? Ca May 20 1 968

ties us that ife s seeking hop is racing

i requied sarism de les celiare dam Dies 24

tie Mp + bryes

If the gamily

+y Juseph B Kennedy

irreste l in At

indid semi May 20 1900 Earles unia pseudiego

jacoly in hi Chipedentil corres: 100342

Titter fim Chance

Ranking :

ne fides in 1963

---

## Page 11

2 foreis (Caster t

hand diled the litter

Chicles stayed in ta 322 Allistorera

rị May 19c3

271%e7

"Day Balag: Dis

St NaK City Bank Ny- US Gorit

11111411

ward: Coup Cae A

= Burres a foreme meletar

aid to the Johnen

Sueiness trans- kepo 21s Goot 1e Charli

as far as beeness is conerned, Iseeied

at my home a sep of bul Co. I. am very happy nond

I thine me hai no further watch

Eke? busire2s

tansactin. de accepted a spirisor Che busseis

business interpuss the s a liny big lutes.

sacruity wis be enlarged:

Classiced Message June 21 190P door

hunter lifi in dange pelying an

central

fice of cosimerin

6093426

le critics be the

14B - Lia

Presen

SECRET

---

## Page 12

• • SECRET

Yelew taper Marked Jeet:

Her Ma Juke 21196)

Me Mill do Well to say that BarChy

Dislick had gest inform him that the

had reacked.

that pix untrators

al her te likened Meatlac counted to a

cut in on this whaty wanted to dece

copies of ay desvemnato...

215-1107 -

: 11311012

Invitine Nema -

Burse daunseet.

I Nach Burren Who it Righty of CHC

Menis for Resid - Jence Gigeney Gigeney Gtae

Cit enstad a CIC, "ates back to kiay.

1963 when l who risested in les suete li Hates

since that line de les pad Cuing qual to Chil

ки rave meant tul a nothing. Ne

ard is has teen producid. tabrication en

11) mt suppoting les priod

ANS - 5/3/02:

0093421

SECRET

---

