# 180-10140-10187

## Page 1

180-10140-10187

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

cielinel wik Welier Heligas

- 3111157

Late: IUre 18, 1978

JFK BORT

FOLD 21

Stive o,

ite nad it and indicated khat ie understiod the literte.

Th. Haligas Was guer e expe of CIA 1- 435-113-1

Yampell to the theefs of Se and We ild. to the liet of station

seied an the chese fip on quettonig.

Haltigas statea that is 1963 the seued as cheef of the Sitet

Settion

weet ie

Due to the nature of this mangerest, lacasen frequetty

white afossal merce suck as the ore le 1135-113-4 wick

Hatt gan explcened the following potions of lassin's mems:

-"REDWOoK" ripresente tie sorit Klwian.

"'He '6 Brasch." Was the

Bucac.

for te soret Diwwor

$2945

140-10187

---

## Page 2

3111158

laves was they of the b Beared Wate Ile traciple

-ктиМ was the eptonym for the office of Operations wikich

- DACI Was the uryptony for the State Department: Maltigan

uxplained that it was not unisur that Carder Wold have str

I star Depatmeat despatcr is DaWAle an it WoUld have bee

nouter to selle iset f state heparteet mesos.

Suma 1960' as stated is the merry, suest have been a miss.

take. Irated, He passably start the sugay 1962.

- BI refera to begraptie nformation.

- IPOVER wAX a суронцы ры

KuDOvE was the cryptozuyir er the DDP.

Haltizes explaced that in paragrapel 3, larasis Left mean

That the was plasting but of the DDP altogetter. suctiad, le?

refere to phasing out of the DiD referred sily to hee

arugnisest wither DAP.

---

## Page 3

Aaltzan ded met believe bis to de i case witere

the couple was went ally dured as the meres ifse. Nattigas

strted that It Had HUH for hours swild to be allored to

is leave during that thise pelled.

- Maltiger was purplesed is to the refuence ste Havey story"

It the last like of the mess. He firet stited heat it sell challe

veen a typsgiapical in wills should have sees the "Ostrald

stry"

But sit Nees to OsWald Which mad it witely lot

but was merely a typogies sos, the expensed Liness

water respect to the refere. He could tit of as expiration

You this, not did the Mis we speaking to tarasa alect.

ite's potst.

3111159

Haltigar recalled that te arried

i ture, 1962 and let traver pestably arrived tell be septenbee

If the saare yal. Haltiger stated that the had nee dend da

untre to te fet that seld dad he wild by de In t

may tore. He felt that bear of he agniester wither. the

Ageney, the would have cheer. is a position to serow of Ossured

NOX 1951-1755 ANt PARTICI

te122 e107.

---

## Page 4

195511958011959.

SCORLE

the expressed the telef that

it was Aliment tepsinble for these not to have trote if Dawald

had had some wisemeet with the Agency is this expacity.

---

## Page 5

S00R3

3111161

SECRETI

---

