# 180-10145-10264

## Page 1

180-10145-10264

ASCA

TRANSMITTAL AN

Mark Fiannigan.

House

Select

cormittee

Assessinations

3301

Annex

42

ind

Street

Washingcon, D

THE

DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED

FOR:

ACTION

INFORMATION

CONTROL NUMBER

DOC. DATE

• OLC 73-2560

CUMENT. RECEIPT

4, Augue: 19?8

FROM:

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Room 7 D 35

c. EoWashington, D.C.

20505

RETENTION

SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred)

LOAN

CLA

Liaison

Material NSCA 4/38/76 - Personal

Notes

0f Mr.

Mark

Flannigan: ASCA

(9003370

t0.0003409)

CLASS.

Secre

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIES PHOGRAR

19299

SIGNATURE (acknowledging

receipt of above

documents)

RECEIPT

RETURN TO

DATE OF RECEIPT

F085% 3772B

10145-102604

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD

BAC

3 - CANARY, OLO HOLD BACK

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CLE # 78- 2550

CIA LIASON MATERIAL

HSCA 4/28/78

PERSONAL NOTES OF

MR. MARK FLANNIGAN, FISCA

0203870

---

## Page 3

TASCH

SECRET

Yeai1959. notation on file "maintained in Room 8988 JEH

HSCA

4-28-78

memorandum

5-20-59

TO: MR. RR. RoAch

FA: Papich

62-9-289

Subji Deportation of gambles ad Gangster perm

Cuta

-colains a copy o a memo 2105-7-59

hensmelted to tre Ins opule in. плати,

ke the INS. Nep in Havana, Cuba.

contains the pallowing names:

FRANK

William Bischoff aka. Lefty Clack, Hany Bish

Geordano Cellini, I.M..

Gofedo

Cellini

Binth appet

1928, 0410

cuba

7-1-22

cuta;. ga.

Ande Antianck,

T.N. Antranck (Ardia). Para.

b. 4-30=

25

" Gardenes, FRANCE

Cura, ga

Ed Levenson

Nerada, Cura

Dusty Peters; I. N. Daniel Lapid Cuts

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

0003371

Joseph selesi

aka

soe Rivers;

1897-

N. y. ; Cata

Pelee Stepinoff

..Cula,.U.s.-

William manoe or.William munroe. Ceva

fasete Cotione

jorenh.@@Cot.noney

cura-.U5.

Vicent Controne.

Vicente. Controne

Cuba.-us

Cula-us

Lawrence allen Grilley, ata.. Lansy. gole

mekiny

6.10-5-32 Canden, N.J. Cula FL

joaquin Corto

JoAquiN Carbo Cordova

bsentenden, SPAIN

Cuta

Maria... Ceciliá Posada

.. Cuta. uS.

noteita angee Portomene Ceregiao

cura.

alterto Pernas.Tomeu

B... 11-7-31

Htarana,

KL

N.4 Crgentina

Certa us

fakle Lansky.

julius.

rosencARd

ULChET, Lamyers.Cuta

---

## Page 5

1. ;

to: Din, cis

Anti- fidel Castro Act.

109-584-134

SECRET

8-5-59

0003372

-enclosesa. menco....

ducusses... the actinctie

o. Rolando Arcadio Masperses. Nojas, former

Calan terator; cmceins an allack on thie

- mentin. Ruhard Jaffer and Rotert Daut.

as two pitsts involred is transporting.

aims... to Cuta far Tamiami arport,

miami,.. FL

- aero mentino a group called the Cusade

of Revolutionarag@unt Communiam (CRAC):

headed by. Salada Din Keron and

jose. Lhis... lujol-.. poup. the cRis

has men prepared... to assassince Cartie,

Paul Castio, Ermisto "Che' querara,

Camoo Cenfuegos a David Valrador

at.wwincepam.od.adtach.again/

.-.-

Certa

mentin ta. Pig and to other are.

railings o

page Hear

anita see General.

- Reliend to

home in monroe, jogin

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

0U03373

Mank... litterhead memo

'6-10-59

TO:DIN: C1A

IFn:

. Hoover

--a....

6-8-55, Geoge s, Hear,

aensed that.

asputant general, state s gaginan

(cord no anter na amicas

himn 6-4-59; manted..

acuii. aum....

sear upused to.

heep

6-1259

IR :

Sul):

AntiFode Actrudies.

-- encloses a meno rei de allegatem of.

francisco Rodigicos, descubed ao a

Culan army cap com who recently intres.

ta. 4.5 a a perchasing issum for....

the Cuhan gov....

allegations.:

1). Russian affices ar. helping t

tran..t.indo.clunate. O Citan

army:

2" 6-3-5280102

the date of hes

---

## Page 7

SECRET

0003374

persmally.inchucted.tom. to assassinale

Rolando.

masferser, a former Cular

emnata.cmeidered.to.be.a..ua.cuminal

by the carto regime:.

memorandum-office -

7-141-59

70: Mn. R.R. Roach

FN.

S. J. Papich

105-

78016-13

Subj: LoMAn Eugene Hall...

Lateral. Security - Cura

-- stoles. that. sill io an Am Cough incarcerates

in. Cuba idue to be releaced. sos.

PRE-plate. That... Here Kuhn, opper 8.

puurit.,.. CIA, Adried the. Leasin

agent... that CIA Mas avace of Halls

fouhcming.retucn.ar.planned

to steric him for the paines of der: leads.

the Liasm afurt. adriced Kuhn that

Hill im te sul Ma puding Becau

civertiation

I planned to int...hem

CIA

oard the would wait Until

FBI.. enducted there interview.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

nett

SECRET

0003375

memocandum.

7-20-59

70: MA.' F, A. FROHBOSE

FN: S.J. Papich

Sub j ..

BATISTH.

1 62-70441-152

7-11-59, jameo Angleton, CIA,.

rold the deaison ajent.

.that tee follourng

info...was.fecniched.co.him.bg

in: wan, D.1.

- The Cirlan Cnsul Genecal, : N.4.C.,

adrised fenformant)..

thal....

...denacor

Htomer..

E „Copehaut... recerred'$ 20, 00.0

de a fee

to effect the intrance

and.. acylum

1. Balista. (in.U.5.)

$ 40,000 d

dlditina"

mes se paul t

apchait. upm succerstu.. coolttion

memorardum.

7:29-59

TO: OnR. F.A: Knoh bose

FR: 1J. PApich

subj... marcus Dian.. dany

.-. seln. hracken of.

1 Pedro Deay Jany; sub.

recenty anire

.in Ciba , with Uit

assistance o CIA, and is now in Tampa.

statro that CM inil temporarly ke

uimsible for wle.suly.

his

whcreatouts .co se eiterl.

tkrous

Burnard Recchert, CiA rep. is Miamis.

Hpcant pdet mis debiee

---

## Page 9

CIA LIASON MATERIAL

SECRET

UJU3376

mamlined in rom 8988 JEH.

60

A

-8-78

blans! leiterhead memo

SAC, CUFO

3-28-60

DIR 1 1B7

105-79913) -45

Angel. Lorenzo saaveda Corea

- stalesChat CIA adried laicon. on

3-23-60 chat info receired fum sance.

of urnam iliatilily indicating lat Cuban

ente suspeit. saaradia. o being a plant t

nor: Saaredia former. Char Millary Attacke

at WDC who defected fim Castro regime.

n... med Felreary t is selling asylum

in des....

-interreind a sereial. occasions

be. the.W.F0:

memorardum

4-1-60

TO: MR.. F. 4. FRO4 BOSE

Fa: S.J. PAPICH

Subj:

William .A..WIELAND

DiR,.. OFFICE OF CARIBBEAN AND MEXICAN

ARFAIRS

Deplt.Of STATE

INE- CONCERNING

IS-CUBA

BufilE 100-347731-71

= sily. holds key position in stato Rep't

at present time,

---

## Page 10

SECRET

0003377

sympathetic towards Russia;.. that he pipersed

fundship tick knowm Conmunist Party membees

in brazil; that he had commended the socialis

progame the Carminist paily in Dragie.

In 1960, den. Smachers asked you arcitable

inpo on Weiland.

-... Vice Pres Nixon also

intriested... in thn affair due to werland!.

position in the...

Mato Depaitment.

alo, an 3-31-60... Herman Horton, CAs

toed Papich. that info had been receried.

that... Are Cacto gor had a souice:

in the

Cartbian denseas of the state Dept.

slated Was... tu. info. is cmid yandthe

aguy... U.s. Ain Force -

while in Brazil suing WW It and finds it

difficult. to beliere

that. he ablaned such

a. Key position.

sap Vat CIA inle mtence to follow thie

maller.

Hiemorandem.

6-16-60

TO: MA L'ALLIER

197-4295-9

ER:: S.V. PAPICH

(2)

Subj: MOVIMENTO RECIPERALION PEVOLUCIONARIO

IS-CUBA

- this mentiom that the suly; is not dield.

.., the

---

## Page 11

SECRET

9-14-60

0U03378

memorandum.

TO: Mu L'ALLIEN

EN:. S. Ji Pasich

Subj

105-30972-68

Latinal Lecurity - CUBA

- subj. vas utileged. as an inf.... ba CIA

slates. the the Cin Allempting to arrange to

hare

trase to Curat

..perre..aa.a.soul.o.info

aero sap their pror to leanny. for Havara

whois.unel.knoum.to.the

CIA t has a ammunut background.

-sales tha... marie to

actually pinated

norde to improve hi position.

Keep that hi has been seperated for some

un. allows the wither to get back aan.

CA sap it hopes. that a resumptem of

the relationship. il hilp. in estattiting

mochabile commonist colact in Cuba.

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

0003373

inemorandum

9-30-60

TO: mn: L' AlLice.

ER: J.J. Papich

Jubi:

lene. Mime valdes

IS-CUBA

97-3805-35

7-29-60, Brich O'Neal, CIA, wanted

.to.. antact valdes.

to.. altempt. to recrul

valdes for intell. assignments. in Cuba.

MEMORANDUM

10-20-60

tO: mn. L'ALLieR

FR: S. J. Papich

105-87912-84

Subj: FRD

- mentions that LE: A. Stanulis Jerr

the cra. opfice attacked.

with CLIP

Blank.. lettechead menco

Legal.. Attache, mExico

PAblo Agustir aedama Acosta

Internal der - Cuba

10-26.-60

105-85333-13

ar.10-111-601-c13.cm.adnsed Chat..it.

no is.. the proces of... attempting to recut

subj:;. sub, has bee reported by various

pokes: as head of Cuban intelligenie in.

te Cuban Embaris, mercia has alo

---

## Page 13

SECRET

0003380

-tali that aldamas has apparent.

seen encountering. Houble inch Cubangou.

becawr.avecher.off.arcustedhesi...og

keny..anl-comm..

+ c11. source reported that reck had bel

accused i profileing on lyco red. at

a specia price at the Embassy;.. df

squandering. his morey n extravagant linne

quarters; and that.

. he... Killed. a woman...

blank leechead

SAC, miami

DIR, FBI

JOSE MIRO CARDONA.

75-CUBA.

./-..

29-60

1O.5-

84334-13

-C/A consed. that miro beng used in

tre CLIP. opecation..

Report

12-21-60.

meami

will ;am P..Kelly

char: IS-CutA

title: Manuel. Adaberto Angues.

105.=

83117-65

SECRET

---

## Page 14

SECRET

0003331

Report

FBI

12-21-60

105-83117-

sifo outared fum two infoimanto,...

MMT-2

jenes. Perdomo,.. former official of the Coclis

gov., and. Jose

Paz Novas, perme di

furnsshed.sgred.statementsidentyfging

que do en emilages dud a

:..fa. Juan Orta,.. sec. 10. Fidel Castro,

tris, mami, stated. Un sutj retinel

to meamo. fum itarara, 11-10-60, apli

going to Cula beet. losing neire. tI retume

to..mami; now.sueley.to. com.zuch

U: 5. 80r:

On. 1114-60. Argeus fumished swon

platement to. Ins.. Chat he never acted.

cro...

an satell: agent of the present.

: Batista people..

sacd. he ded..not. receer miney. on.

instructios from. Orta.

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

0003382

ip. 4- Jose Joaqui. De La Caridad Sanjenis

Reidomo- voluntay.statement-

fum.. Aug. 1959 untel 5070. 1960-0,11

general. f.th. tiscal... dewerily.. Dep!t

i of. Tressury. - Cubas goreinment.

1960-4. -

A: Oct on Nou 1959

uta, juan Orca. the See. to

Castio,......

sent him...

atout 3.cn.k

lillus. fum manuel arques.. There

eelle... relates. to. various persmo

working for the dep!t. of treasury

emopuaceesagainst.the.go.vof.Caitrd.

Onta coed hem..

to sms chere persenally.

1 Specificall

he. saup he can recall

Ket are y tere letter mentined a.

uman who nordhd for te. Special.

el sad she was parsing frequente.

biem..

Cutat miamo and.. that puhaps

she a carry messages of anti

cacio. elemento, ben miami t Harani,

in relatia to. cospiraciia againet

Uis gov of Cartro.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

p.7.

SECRET

0003383

Orte als toed. the guy that he coued

Un the sence of Paul Ros. to locate..

manuel arques

also, in about Oet-Nou, 1959, a. Culas named

Frank Bestard, Who taed he was working

for. Rael Castro, tad tem that Argues

was at that. lome an agent. in. meani,

H., for. Juan Orta.

also, a man. to a Mario lecte,

who worked for me in tical deurity

n... sanana, ted me about Acy, 1159,

that he uns transporting initten. message.

y.. Arques... 10

is. miami.. to. are it.

..Aterana.

fose... Раз

...Novas - messes.:. #1=10-11-60

10B. - 3-8-18 -

G-2. of che Cutangor. fum. Jan, 1959, unt

may 30,.. 1960:

- Paz. sales that during 59 and in. 1960

do. had contact o fu dice, dec

y. Jitel Castio, Press

saip Or told him in. Apre, 560, that

"Manalito" aques tes chief. of an

intelligine.group.erouiingjo.za

in Inami, F1.

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

000338k

cap. le alio deard. Or Celling... sme older

saup arquer.. had. a. yot as clek in the

Houl american i miami during 1959

and funt part of 1960...

alio, atout che end a 1.959, Une.

cmoul.general.f.cura.ia.mianie.cim.

tepore..

uns. Laz cand... told me that

a Curan female.,. the managh of the

Hoal assistian America, and her

doughto..thom.I do not know by nase,

wre colling under. arques in... te

intelligence.goup.of...cula

aquite who untressed... ther.. Xlatements

nere:

William P. Kelly, SA, FAI, Mienie,

Thomas #. ERRION, SA,".

Ediin L: Sweet, 50, FBI,

p.10

- FBI adnsed thao Arques arrend in Miami

fine Harana, Cura aboard Culara Asters

pligat. 804 m.11-10-60.

Aque

Hai lus adden as

530 Ocean Drive,

miami Beach, Ilorida. - the is

che. Barbzzon Apartment statel-arques

---

## Page 18

0:1):

SECRET

+L÷3335

relamed to Cut, I in trelling" cosperatt

inch. the United... states. gorciment.?

Ages gan a sto statement 4 1114-45

to sA Kelly. to Ins, meant, Howard?.

shouldice

- yue premoudly made s statement. at.

the Fars oppin

8-3-60.

- Anies slated. tat he had been in Cura

the last 212 months:

- soup he left as because the country

tras changing i becoming communit

- sand he was offered a position.

the tourist Commission in Carla -

- slated had he was a ling-time friend of

carlos.Prio-saed.heirscted.com

in Cuta while he was there?

pit- paup that he provided info to the

Carti. 504../2.1959 encerning Baticle.

people who he vehemently opposed.

p. D- saup he sent the enp to DR Orta. -

sent. it openly.

p. 1p. saip. he never. recered money from

jeas.dila.por..in/0:(o7.pimauyne.elec):

---

## Page 19

SECRET

0003336

p26=

sanchey. is.:

Keep he has werer been assoc with fron

Qia do you as he Knows

fose.. A. Reppin" sanchey has been reported.

to be a Citanagent.

On ...

_12-1-60... Aquer gore a isintary

statement. to the

FBI.-

Kelly x Williaris.

P. tolloman.

p32. seep that he worked as a sort of publicity

man for the Curan Toureat Commissco at

Miami, Fl.. for a little tess. ran one year;

he registed anth the Us. Jatie

Depit as an agent. of a forein principal

durn jan, 1968, in connection. with

Ike joo..

platy denie ere being. G-2.M Man.

intelligence agent for Juan Orta..

sao he sent. ness ages to Orth. through

Ingel Banos, Si," Chemoley", and

Who was assigned

face deran i Citates office.

to the Cuben.

in miami

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

OU03387

Manuel I Diaz, former employe o

culana Antines.

and. through. Kapol

Botello

There message creeined

we actorte. y Batistianos.

- demean intrudio by era to send.

messager on axy infe.

-white. Orta.tom.in meamoin

RiC, 1959,. Argues Ran hen. volunteered

to and him info about Batistiano.

Orla aped only to accent. such in.

- cannot edith (unable) any Cutaw

- denies ever receiring any training,

inoriction or arentatios. in espiorage.

i neves. tales an oald of allegian

to. Castro. goreinment

339- Arquer made a tup to NY. C. in late

march, 1960;. ment here to investigali

repored. miscmduct... of an unsecalled

employe + CTC.

p43

MANUEL ADALBERTO. ARQUES DIAZ

14-23-25

Place "Harana, Cap

SECRET

---

## Page 21

SECRET

0003388

natured is citizen, ratialize uS.

Dishuck Caus, Lynchbeerg, VA, 1949.

Soc. Sei

229-36-5431

1960

4-28

78.

97-4196-11

4-18-60

• TO: PIRecto CiA.-

FR: JEH

Subf.:

The Fair Play For CUBA.. Committer

Registration. Caet.=cuta.

slates.... that the Bureau as 3-22-60

inctituted.an./wv....ganog. knowmas

He Conmetter of Friends if Cula

which may be identical. with the

captored. diganizatios.

a caf-tap furnched ends in the

part. which said the Comette (of Freaks)

in parmed to populain tha

1-97-4167 (Cimmittee of Fiends of Cura)

- mitte an the men in tighed!

the notation "to — Harry

cia - 4-18-60

DDP "

SECRET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

4-8-60

nemo for:.... DiR, F.BI

0U03389

97-4196-11

ATIN.'

Papich

Sub;.:

Fair Play for Curla Committee

-tenters ailached adritisemest whet

annd... N4. Tim

4-6 - 60 -

indicates

.. that..

tie Cutangor has

pronded money for the suly: ad.

8-8-60

105-80781-196

TO:. Q12, CIA.

FR:.

TEH

-Frent her: Dem..

(FRD)..

- mentons the CLIP: opecation if the CLÀ

nech.... is a CIA operation quiet

amit the Caste go emment.

Bean letterbend.

9-9-60

97-4368-3

TO: DIX.., 610

Serty:

p2..

Cuban Rely Jocely, sne

SECRET

mentions an islandi nee

Aslamoadlo,

---

## Page 23

SECRET

0U03390

.. mention.. CLIP ascation

Plank. Cellecheat memo

109-584-200.8

9-22-60

70: DIR

ER: JEH

subj: Anti-Fidel stet...

- mentions at Varona is of interer!

to the ciA & that vacond is a key

pizuie...

in tre.CIAb CLIP. operation

which es an epecation.... aimed aganist

we Castro goveinment

Blank lettihead memo.

109-584-0053

10-18-60

то..

DIR,CIA

ATEN: DDP

FN.: JE4

seby:

anti:Caste... Act.

75- CuBA.

falloung upte. by a souce who has not

been lasted but is. the position. to pronte

inpo on ganeans:

accod. to source, durry recent cano.

wick several frends, Grancana dated that

Fidel Cacto wa to be dme aur int sholly.

saw. it would or si

---

## Page 24

SECRET

0003391

ass. foke an 3 occacios, the last

I stated enrything had bees perfected

for telling Castro i that the "ass" has

ananged with a gie, "not, furcher

descreted, to drop a pili

in den

dunk or food of Castro

some ao said that G plates.

Carto is. IN the almanced tage of syphilli?.

this shemo. us sent..to:

1) Orst Cheef of Stay for snell

Dep!'t of. army.

atl: security. DIV

1) Office of Sp. Inut.

qui Jou

aur:. Chees, Counter intllyme Sir.

2) DiR of Naval intelligence:

1. ant Ult. General

f. Walter.

Leagle

1) Office. of decid

Dep't of Alato

SECRET

---

## Page 25

DUD

0U03392

blaull letterhead

105-76826-17

12÷21-60

TO:. D11, C.I.А

ATTNi.

DDP

KR:: JEH

Jubi

manuel.anconco.Vecona

IS - CUBA

states tak a source who feinished

releabli info is. the part said on 12-13-60

that he ricd. info.

what exfort an bung

made by us... racketiers. to financ

anti-castro act...in the hope. of regains,

Old tery.

wwwsaid.the.data.came.from

A. uceman; iho obtained.. it fior

any Tomlinson, who was formedy the

Havana representative of Communications

Counselors, One, a subsidiary ?..

the... mecann Euchaon. Ad. Agency. of NYC

accord. to sourc

che Cellini brothes.

sidter.....

to put upy millies for the support.

of. Varma:

allyide

Edisandk.

moss..

internediary

Rodly, moss is

war, so Pitti Relation Coachin

whose misters SEllia Cellini

---

## Page 26

-...-

.**.

mo dll colawoe w.a

" inwoa anam- d-eae .

...*--..

nn me mureod

-.....

muwece uina ie

tanr- -an,

t. nn..an.a".-.

..... ai..

nani, a in reuaooio")

..-----

SECRET

0U03393

forjoing. info.pumishedky

=., Ofri r. see dfsefense.

_......... ". -a...

,---....

tmnno maa ta-.=.

.....

.• a..

no otm-.=..

W nee cea d eidee GaeeA Gunated de Inoreeee Melnoor eo

o unno o ar carns ne vorner a an anaan

-...........----.-

e.nm.. .==

do at e=n . rm =

.---.. --. ..

....--

G......... ...

- we -aeao

n.nn o muao va ". =o

aua as aama... a adi aaal

. aa iame ae dan aoniio iem diiiia a m

--..... -..e,

+ wnn,----

SECRET

---

## Page 27

-Sest 1.1

SECRET

0003394

maitaunel.in..room 8988 JEH

trited tatos government.

Memorandum

TO: Mn. s. Ellier

52: Santi fidel listio set.

I5-сиВA.

farmacy 9, 19.61

109-584-2690

-Ref. is made 10 Miami leter ded

Dec 201. 1960.

ane. komar,.. CM, adried

plasm agent.. January 6, 1961,

bar Frank anther

esin.no.unyconnecte.ruth. che.C/A

1:25

CIA litechead imeno

27. Dec 1960.

50. Dincior, FBI

aun: Mr. S. J.. Papich

105=

95498-1

FR.

• ODP

sübj: Pene Nenez Berro

= statis tati are. Rene Nunez Berro,

a. Campania Cubana de Avreicios.. pitoo,

group, may ke

G-2 agest.

SECRET

---

## Page 28

SECRET

0U03395

blank lettickend memo

1-19-61

TD:.Dsreclon.coa

IN: 5E11

Sul: Franciaco Quintara... Macia

25- cuBA.

..-mentins that sabye, ant cereal.

under irweit... by: FBI.... to det. moerement.

ni Culan intel actinter in N.y.C.(where

phi lives).

www

de.C/A.learned that. the. tut..ted

infultatco....che.c./n. C/P program- als.

ten empersed What he was a CIA. agent

CIA now.. tryiy

..do des, potencial. for

dowle out.

пожЕ

thes memo. chen. la a sentence

wlllen." laghand ihich saus.". Ointonn

program rich,

so is baner, moan i

probably.is'

blank letterhead

DATE:

1-25-61

70 ::..Directou....c/A

alia:

DOP.

FR.. JEH

Sub: Citina Aulines.

mentens has aSElltice to thE

hoose is die costion to denis this

---

## Page 29

SECRET

0U03396

aulines an flutti

which depost. on alive

at. micine

- the benean

is aling.. is the C14 would like such

maleral.

NOTE:

_ the sonce.

..can.acgun.tus us. but.

et.i.not.cla ya decen uns made

for her to gen it to an us agent

it on protable that the info was going to

cu. Bureau, at lead).

varango. oUt. Operations Depaitiment, Curana

FBI.- letteo.....-

1.30-61-

- Miami, Alouda

105-95199-2

1-18-19-61 the

following:

I Sp. dancer.. ky nas

- went to Cula in march, 1959, apte bey

Fidel Castro

well acquainted inch Juan Orta

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

0U03397

slates that Cacho torer proposed thal he,

Cartonnell act as a curen agat t he agreed

to do so.

-m july, 1959, Cartonnell.came.to..te

i.s. antacted an an intelligen agut

unit about... fon on Jel 1960.

he ceased.ading.as.an.ant beau...

bs.sympa.thee.changed-hir.aet.

cenlies a gachering info on hasperes

roberto Ferrande, Ineranda

= somelimes be penished enfo telephonicall

to juan. Outs.

- ascened code-name A. Perey k Jeau.. -

seldom used the.

latter name

corkable

carmell said chat. co all Castro

asumed pover he became acguanted with

maria Wilouska, a private secretary

of Tidel Cartro- she speaks approx.

4 Carpuages.., induking Russias.

- cartonell sacd de i in the office.. Of

Cartrio m. 3-22-60, Which was cha

day aper.. 2 Am pilots, shergalis &

Renagent, chad been shot don over.

a cal. in the

trying to tall.

---

## Page 31

Jem his position by ite aid of

0003398

aunt, hostle toed cannell that.

Or hod. anaged for Sheyalis. k

Ruadquirt... to ply fum Miami to Cuta,

malle alow.pars..a desgratesarcad

Eeta,... at wheel time photo hold he taker-

propagarda purpos.. -Custro. ded not..

prowabout.thu.

- mustarent shot. down-

- Carto persed at Ora.

united. Mats messo.

10: DIR.EBI..

-5-2-61

105-95645-2

E-s agent.

15. Flora. Menning aims Case

prior 10 1 1-59; reportess had

contacts... 's the Tempa den who helped

him secue aims;

aft for cuta as

6-17-60 - has not returned--is

with.. Curtro.

blank sittehend

TO: Dir , CiA

Attn: DDP

JEH

Suchy.

Cutan gou. in Enile SECRET

3-2.2

---

## Page 32

SECRET

0003399

= mentors. la!.

'he CIA's 'CLIP. mogam againt

Cartro. mey be implemented. at any time

1.s. gov memorandum

TO :

Belmont

ER: RO. L' ALLier

such:

3-28-61

FiA. Stanulis, who has been insoled in the

arretion of the progen, on... march 27, 196%.

-projet now. manny at a part pauin dew

the seen semal ted. fian Hennety Admin

He confided. that erryme invoted in the profit

arsumed. Admen. gav. cha-eut order to more

wout dely althout

wh.Hocu.t.st Dep't instructers.

raue. terms... Atuli ful the peopet coud

he scratched despite go ahead

diamelu...-.tr. camp in Guatemala. completes

personnel ready to. more.. arrangements

also made to.acquire bases is. Nicking.-

(to be und as masion. embarkatio points).

_mentin tat curn pot ent leader. will mat

3-20 is Guatemala.

die -Than

a Loser

Beltiat

---

## Page 33

SECRET

0003400

Sanches - Mosquera has come up mit

iead.oy. arout 300 ex-citan inchili men

as a bar- could invade in west. math-

Alerte

stanulis

confeded.. that then

group. could he wed as a...

disercmary.pore...

the deadline pon i wasim

haf said

would not he for.. at least two more

weeks

Blarl.... letterhead

To: mu L'Alllies

4-6-61.

97-3962-12

en Papich

subsi.. Angel kanchez-Mosquera

- the Cin had pres acued. that thes

meht give limited support parentane

lo che subj; sen on april 1, 1961., A.P.

Flynn, CiA, told Liarson agent that. the

Aginey had changed its mund.. about

dealing much mosque.

an. april 5,1761,

Roman; CiA, adused thost. the Aginy

Was not han an hutter deal with

hu sill; - no details - her understandtiry

that cla world not deal wnth him because

many o the Cular enter dislied him

SECRET

---

## Page 34

SECRET

0003401

Bland cutechead.

TO: DiR, CIA

ATEN: DIP

JEH

Subj: CLIP

4-6-61.

105-.

89923-161

-nif (releatle) said nn..

4-4:61 that he barned

fran member of. Uie... MRP that an imasion is

espected. to. like place n

A by the and

of Ии чим or early nest wreck

suppost t.t..en, inf said C1

pre mico. Cardona. ha heen worleng.

ananci..castio...comp in.c

quatemala. will

pina do your drines?

Beard: Allechend

-4-18-

61.

TO:.. DIR p.C/A

DD.P.

105-89923-781

кп:

JEH.

Subj: CLIP

Ше.

13-61.00. so inf (reliable) fenches

pollocrng.. info:

rently claimed de so comedes in the CrA

I had are to us CRE

i cris..

This thes

Fastro quaupa.

---

## Page 35

SECRET

0U03402

them.

= merla said. he had tolen enral auto palences.

fem the equipment. Land he ens fending thee.

acquaintane

500 each

admoed.choitdoes not.has

..anaperational...

l interest in Merla, but.

das the "Terru

a boat

was mes, had been wer

ky

-o..

1-13-61, a source affitated. with CRe

ERD. in miami, adned that merola

I a bock

orned. by (MRR), a group affiliated with FiRD.

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

0U03403

19612 section 2

- manitared in room

8988 JEN

memorneum

50: m. tallier

FR:

Papich.

6-6-61

105-57681-50

-tentions that Out had defected; saup

Wat Ora. is stell in Irana berry's

de of the datin Ameran embassis whee

he... ablaced asylum....

C.A receuro a

apt. tot.. he may.

abraw a safe: Conduct

repoet.whech.woued.altoc.hem.to.klas

th country

Bear... entertend.

+05-89923-202

6-23-61

10: DIR, CIA

ATINiDDA

FR... JEH

Leby:.. CLIP.

- FBI Kup. that it is that undustally. that

a number 4, endinquals, atreat 50,

hearted the tiring comps. cmnectd.nek

present wherestoct of there persons t

at cincing. detes they de

pis -castro outiot

---

## Page 37

SECRET

0003404

Plant lulehead

70: 012, FBE

6-8-61

105-89923-125

EN: SAC, miani

duk: CLIP

mentin that the FBI. should ach the

C/A. for mpormation de lte

50 i me

Graing. camps conn. wik ChIP. add.

Meroadin.

TO. DIRCITOR, FRI

FR: JAC, DALLAS

9 - 25-61

105194565-13

Itosty, Jr.

Dalla.?-..

27-61

- cin donce rentd. bat sih's sister

whill operating

undes... cares of a

santa resolution .

-should he noted - all of bul' sister,

is. talla aca.

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

soch

0003405

4-28-78

maintered in Romm 8988.

- roching of regnificance in. thes volume

CIA LIANON... MATERIAL

19622.

44-28-48

maintainel...rn.room. 8988.

volume 5018

CIA LIAISON MOTERIAL

TEAR 1963118C74-28-78

Volume8.08

Mis. Memorandum.

3-31-63

TO:... w.C. Sullivan

109-584-3502

KR:. M.R. Wannale

Subj:...

-Anti-cactio. actintas. in the des.

2a..

a conferene.

neld. en..

3- 30- 63 Thu,

duccesed how to stop cold" the raid

ky Chan group agant Cura al ho

lang. ten bacis

present- rep.. of sweau of Cuctons,

Coaut Guard, Army, NAVY,, State, CIA,

Border Paciol,. INS,. FBI, and art

-era Lien Cola y State.

SECRET

---

## Page 39

SECRET

0003406

as. a resuet. f the emperene, Coltu

planned o. to. Pres... 8 specipe they

diagned to stop..tu raids.

Graced to band on ween th Fathe

2). to ham...

wlards beingued by

authordy.to.presentluton...poo

pacole fur bassy the corendry )....

3). to inculute Coars Guard suncillance,

...O precenty... suspected vessels;

4).. to permit ts to serge paidles

wotred.in.iaidefordelentios.com

sevice of prevention of departin

notices;

5) to was eule leader than the Pres

vents the raid to care;

.toussue a Gov policy statement

against the raids;;

7)

to stay the querten s

proutes.

indiant restingi

engage. in raid foras; x

haras refugus

by

a manner

that they would

las thy ate being walked.

NOTE:

"harassing physical

surveillance" Did not meet with

favor t FBI will not indulge is

such artistes??

---

## Page 40

SECRET

0U03407

p4. - Hose present.

Sterly.Cottrell -State

Capt giage Reynolds-CC

D.C. E2415 - Cuntons

J. Walte Leafley-AG

11. Col. Richard L.

Rolfe

Col. Boyt. - Army

Lt. Commander JiN. WitSOn-NAUDL

intelligine

Wannall. - Seition Chuf - FDI

4-23-63

105-7-2107-2555

70: DIRCETOR.

10I

DOR. (selms)

Machune Leitery f US Cilizes traveling

-stater bal allacted. a machine-lestery. d

20. I pem tula ducery 1962.

-aho acts the Brean's enterest... i

Beard Cellehead-secret -

11-27-63

10.5.

18078-789

ATTN: DDP

FR::

Subj:

FEL

Citani Actinites in thee United. Hatt

1S - Cula SEGRET

de: 585 dilet to ident meeti

BY LIAISON

---

## Page 41

SECRET

U003408

Cula who wee in voted is the long of Cular aguts. sent to

succ. interials - neto.. descloped. fear

cases. in not pens Who au or who dan beer

of ocrational. interest.

NOTE: Classified! 'Secret" beause it thous

BI.has.into...n

on aguts. sent to. Us by Cularson.

I becaus its how that there peans an

apecating ogainst... Cuban gov.....- all cam mentine

is. the Mechead mens. er cument dourle

tune or to the CA And Is now working

for them.. inse de. Outa-

want to identity

pesos. in contret such i double age?.

enclosese

.1-21-.03

B4 LIAISONi

"Fer the purpose of clarity the derly. mentines

velsu rice be reperra t0 as A, B,C, D, E, F,

G, and 4..

- goes ous to fine descuptons of the cotact;

doe, not reveal who i doull agit de

us. gov Memorandum

8-8-63

M: MA. SiT. BRENNAN, sR. 105-107868-27

кал:

MR. S.J. PARICH

Subj:

PSI -CUBA

SECRET

---

## Page 42

SECRET

C003409

Hacolo divincon, C/s, adnsel Papis

8-6-63:

Cin has no abpution with the Buceau

contar. resull" propored metiry is nox cels, cin

descre. to be informed puo to meeti Sucasa.

admed.lhat.che//A houlshe....in a. pochios,

to. fernesh. coragei the acer X wt. un des.

passelle Chat. lunetig related to acher

Cutan.actinty.. of entecul to ClA do Mos city.

interated in recult.of.any meetings. it ttey

tistle place.

SECRET

---

