# 180-10147-10185

## Page 1

180-10147-10185

419558518018911

(This fOMANSEd BelyseDIaRRaterial extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

When he first came into prominence as a Cuban exile

leader, Manuel Ray Rivero was described as "softspoken and

unassuming", a person of "highest intellect, sincerity and

1

conviction" - in other words, a natural leader.

In 1917.

the 23-year old Ray was granted a scholarship by the Cuban

Ministry of Public works to study civil engineering at the

2

University of Utah.

Ray was in the United States for two

years before returning to his native Cuba in 1919 and

obtaining various positions in the engineering field, one of

which was project manager for the construction of the

Havana Hilton Hotel. 3

Reacting to the excesses of the military iule oi

Fulgencio Batista, Ray organized the Civic Resistance Movement

in 1957 and began supervising sabotage and acts of tarrorism

against the government.

4

His political posture and active

resistance to Batista was recognized by Fidel Castro who,

upon assuming control of the government of Cuba, appointed

Ray his Minister of Public Works in February 1959.

within a

few months of his appointment, Ray confided to two asti-Castro

Cubans that he had recognized the symptoms of Commurasm- in

the Castro regime but was not prepared to conspire aainst

6

"El Lider Maximo."

Pay's

tenure in Castro's governient was short-lived.

He

7

was

relieved of his official position in November 1939.

Classification:

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Date: ASSANITIZED

2003

Classified by derivation:

1137

10147-10185

---

## Page 2

DRAFT - 11/3/7Clas37dtiß}: Rivero

B. Palmer - pace

(This'

form is to be used for material extracted

definite reasofronoAthcars'ededougetshas been documented but,

according to one source, Ray did not leave Castro because of

ideological or policy discrepancies but rather because of a

personality clash with Castro's Minister of

Labor who almost

shot Ray after a stormy Cabinet meeting." Another theoxy

about his leaving was that he opposed Castro's plan to declare

Hubert Matos a traitor and execute the Cuban revolutionary

hero with whom Ray had been associatea.?

For whatever reason, Ray did continue to permit his name

to be associated with the Castro regime? until May 1960

when he formed the Revolutionary Movement of the People (MRPY?

The MRP wassanti-Castro organization which believed that

the ideas and aims of the democratic left best suited the

needs and aspirations of the Cuban people.12 It did not wish

to reinstate the 1940 Cuban Constitution, rather it favored

continuation of the laws passed by Castro at the beginning of

his regime 3

and advocated the regulation of private investment

and nationalization of all utilities. I4 Associated with Ray

in this underground organization were Raul Chibas, Ramon

Barquin, Rogelio Cisneros, 15 Rufo Lopez Fresquet and Felipe

Pazos. 16

Organized in each of Cuba's six provinces, the MRP was

considered the most important underground group it working

in tightiy organized cells, the leadership in one province

was unaware of the identities of their counterparts in other

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 3

Page 3

Classificazion: a

in other providesform is thebinsedefogagedridnerated of sabotage

from CIA - controlled documents.)

and was supplied with explosives

sent by launches from the

19

Florida Keys.

Having waited until May, 1960 to organize his resistance

group, Ray was criticized as being suspiciously tardy to the

anti-Castro mormement. 20 Chargés of "Fidelism without Fidel"

were made against him and the MRP because of their leftist

ideologies. 21

Perhaps for these reasons, Ray's background

wais questioned by some in the State Department22 and the

station 23

when, in the summer of 2960, he wusfeing ter

1l.

cruited by the CIA in

•Cuba to becomte a member of the Frente

Revolucionario Democratico

13.

oxganization, sponsored by the (CIA.

the Agenay considered him

'y: an important political asset?' and facilitated his elandestine

5 entrance into the United States 26

on November 10, 1960.

16.

Nevertheless, there was internal confliet within the

will

Cin about Ray's political compatibility # United States

it

government policy. In alcIAmemo for Record, dated November 21,

14, 1960, one Agency) officer declared, ":.. Ray did not politically

20

represent anything to cheer_about."28 A CIA officer who met

privately with Ray in November, 1960 noted that his political

posture was "doubtful" as far as U. S. government acceptance

29

was concerned,

and a further assessment portrayed Ray as

far "left in his thinking that he would be as dangerous to

U.S. interests

as Castro30

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

4009000S

---

## Page 4

DRAFT - MANUELCRASSPAKERIon: 11/3/78

Page 4

(This form is to be used for material extracted

Some prontioeftA Cubatrolletigasntalso expressed negative

opinions about Ray, among them DI. Jose Miro Cardona, president

of the FRD. Miro opposed Ray because he considered his

program too Marxist31 and declared that Ray was bitterly

anti-American as well as probably totalitarian in his think-

ing. 32

Manuel Artime, head of the Movimento Recuperacion

Revolucionaria (MRR), noted that Ray's group was opposed to

banning the Communist Party and in favor of "nationalizing

everything. "33 Although avare of his controversial political

philosophy, the ell continued to astivedy recruit kay to join

the FRp3A because the White House and State Department pushed

for his inclusion. 35

Ray received full operational approval as a "political

asset" on February 7, 196136 but resisted joining the newly

formed Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) just as he had

resisted inclusion into the ERD:

He said he felt the members

of the CRC were too restrained and he did not want to become

a part of a situation in which someone else was running the

show for the exiles. 37 However, Three weeks before the Bay of

pigs invasion, Ray was persuaded to join the CRe as a show of

unity. 38

In recalling the events of this period, Ray told HSCA

investigators that he was aware of the fact that certain in-

fluential and wealthy Americans, among then former Ambassador

william Pawley, were opposed to him and that a lot of heavy

propaganda was laingestlated aceusing him of being a

communist.

39

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 5

Cassinication: -

DRAFT - MANUEKTRATOrIVERO be Isad 3167 material extracted

Page 5

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Ray withdrew from the CRC shortly after the Bay of Pigs

invasion. In a Miami news conference on May 28, 1961, he said

the major reason for the MRP break with the CRC was that the

Council had failed to live up to the written promises given

it in March, outlining conditions Ray had insisted upon before

joining the organization. 40

The first condition had been that

the Council was to give first priority to the underground

fighters in Cuba during the Bay of Pigs invasion. Secondly,

Ray had insisted that anyone too closely associated with the

Batista regime would not be used in the invasion. Also, he

said, he was to have been allowed prior approval of any appoint-

ment of invasion military leaders. 41 Ray told the assemblea

newsmen that his program to overthrow Castro was based on

maximum mobilization of the discontented people inside Cuba,

and that he thought the leadership of this underground should

come from Cubans who could prove they had access to such a

potential force.

42

Ray sought CIA support for the MRP independent of the

Council, 43 claiming that the group had an effective underground

organization but needed material and financial support.

44 Ray

felt the MRP had to be allowed to plan its own operations and

broaden its base of financial support to include sympathetic

Latin American governments. 45 He was totally opposed to another

46

attempt.

large invasionciosstheation:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 6

DRAFT - MANUEL ChYSSfER#On:1/3/78

Page: 6

(This form is to be used for material extracted

The Miamifren CAtarralledeesumentsed Ray be given an

initial $50,000 for operational expenses.47 Reaction at

CIA headquarters was immediate: Within 24 hours a Memo foa

the record was circulated, objecting to the Miami stationis

recommendation and claiming that Ray did not ever produce any

substantial military actions against Castro.48 Ray was told

to submit a "prospectus" of his plans fox the MRP and advised

& that no. financial help would be forthcoming until such a plan.

was reviewed. 49

Ray went to Puerto Rico about July, 1961, where he

received sympathetic support for the MRP from the Governor

of that island, Luis Munoz Marin, who personally liked Ray. 50

While Ray was in Puerto Rico, a member of the MRP underground

in Cuba reported to the MRP Exécutive Council that he had been

in contact with the ClA and was told by the Ageney that no

material resources would be available for the group until

Manuel. Ray was dismissed as general coordinator.51 Charging

the CA

with repeated interference in the affairs of the MRP,

Ray resigned so that there wouldn't be any obstacle to the

group's cohesion. 52

In October, 1961, the Puerto Rican Planning Board an-

nounced that Ray had accepted a $12,000-a-year position as

consultant to that Board. 53

Although there was no evidence

that the Puerto Rican government was supporting the MRP, Ray

Vas

looked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican officials 54

and he endeavorass isatista the May vit cuban exiles residing

there. 55

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 7

DRAFT - Manuel Ray RIVerO,

Page ' 9

Classification:

Ray's plan wagradialed undit mager at waste time he quit

from ClA-controlled documents.)

his job in Puerto Rico and dropped out of sight?? His in-

filtration plans were known throughout the Miami Cuban exile

community.

Soon the story spread to Cuba where Castro ordered

a full-scale military alert and rounded up scores of suspected

79

Ray supporters.

After several days of bad weather and dodging Cuban patrol

boats, Ray and his crew of seven,

including a reporter-

photographer team from LIFE magazine,

81 landed at the :

82

Anguilla Cays, 40 miles off the Cuban coast.

There Ray

intended to make a final equipment check and a final radio

83

transmission.

Because of their proximity to Cuba, the Anguilla Cays

were heavily patrolled by Castro forces and by the British who

84

owned them.

The British discovered Ray and his group and

their cache. of weapons

and explosives, arrested them for illegal

entry into the Bahamas and took them to Nassau.

85 The minimal

fine of $14 was levied on each member of the group and each

86

was admonished to never tresspass again.

Upon his release, Ray said that he was as determined as

ever to infiltrate Cuba: "Fidel knows me," he said, "and he

knous I'm cominal 8>

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

277

---

## Page 8

Page 9'10

1. :

(This form is to be used for material extracted

compoundinom Ray. copfoldeusmas.) the reyelation by the EBI

and U.S. Treasury that Rogelio Cisneros had illegally purchased

$50,000

worth of arms fox JUre from a california arms manu-

92°9

facturer.

It also caused the CIA considerable embarrassment.

The Agency denied knewzedge on the purchase to preventle

officials and, Because ef the autonomous nature of te

Ship with JURE, a hat mate aultant ta stop Re

was told

investigation.

The Agency non, however, tald Ray thät he

wayla have to move all his operations outside U. s- territory, 83?'

In order to shore up his waning credibility within the

Cuban exile community. Ray again tried to infiltrate Cuba in

July, 1964 but, again, his boat developed motor trouble and

8492

the plan was aborted.

The failure this time led three

93 85

exile groups to withdraw from JUrE.

All these events, from May through July, resulted in a

CIA decision to stop financing Ray until he ceased all

activities from the us le

mainland.

waS

94°6 the Agency aurbarized lif

8795

final payment of $75,000 to the group to facilitate the move?

thereby "closing the books" on JURE.

88-96

8997

Ray kept his organization together until August, 1968

although. it was relatively ineffective. He personally main-

tained an interest in anti-Castro activities: In 1969, he

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 9

DRAFT- MANUEL

Page I01

RAPSSVEgh07173/78

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

called together a congréss. of Cuban exiles to create a new

organization. 9 As late as 1972, he was actively engaged in

the formulation of the People's Revolutionary Party, hoping

to reinvigorate the anti-Castro movement, 91 but it, too, failed

to make an impact. 98100

Ray still resides in Puerto Rico and heads his own

engineering consulting firm in San Juan, Agros

Vicio Lis

Lie Wis

Classification:

..?

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 10

Classificadarores

those

tape a2!

(This P87A454O RY URIVER material extracted

with

ref

from ClA-controlled documents.)

1.

CIA/Deput: Dixactor Operations (eDOl,"Manuel Ray Rivero (Ray)

Volume II, Cable to Director from MASLiD 11/17/60

2.

SSCD:005-503

9, Item

) FBI Manolo Ray References,

Section 2,

(JFK DOCUMENT 00G463)

3.

Ibid:

4.

#SCA $009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78,

of Manolo Ray

Interview E* socumen! 004005)

• Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales

5.

Ibid,

6Xd Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

Edition, p. 91

7.

#SEA 1005990, p. 2, EBI Correlation Study, Manolo Ray,

FILe $97-4546, Section 1., P7,: (OF DOLLE: 005990)

8.

CIA/DDO Ray Volume VII, Memo From fael Malone former

manager, Kings Ranch,-Cuba, dated 7/26/62-

9.

CIA/DO, Ray Volume IV, Information Report, 3/16/61,

Subject: Background, Character and Economic-Concepts-of

Manued Ray Rivera

10.

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

Edition, p. 92

11.

HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/118,

of Manolo Ray Rivero from Fonzi/Gonzales, CUrE Docusey

007005)

documenti

12.

CIA/DDO, Raytolume VE 6/9/62 study of program for

liberation of Cuba submitted by ray-

13. CIA/DDO, Ray Volument, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/60

14. Ibid.

15. CIA/DDO, Ray Volume. II, Oxganization of MRP.

16.

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

Edition, p. 92

17.

New York Times, April 10, 1961, Castro Foes Map Multiole

Forays, by lad Szule

18.

Ibid.

19.

20.

21.

Classificaron: -

Give Us This day by E. Howard lunt, Popular Library Eaition, I:

10/17/60, Subiertjeeting with-duan Esteves and Jorge Bents,

---

## Page 11

Footnotes - MaglebsPhlidhort!

page: al

(This form is to be used for material extracted

22.

Chief, mr, 9/27/60, Subject:-State Approval to Include

Manuel Ray Rivero into the FRD Complex.

23.

CIA/BDO-Ray-Volumez, Cable from MASH to WH/9, 9/29/60

24.

CIA/Do, Day volume 1, Meeting with Raul Chibas, 9/7/60

25.

Ibid

26.

CIA/DDO. Ray VolumeII, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/5/60

27.

CIA/DDQ. Ray Volume II, Cable to Director From JMASH, 11/11/6C

28.

CIA/DDQ. Bay Valume II, Memo for Record, 11/21/60

subject: Meeting with-King and Esterline.on subject-of

Handling MRe

29 .

CIA/Do,Ray Valume, II: Cable, to. Director from MASH,

11/17/60

30.

CIA/DDO, Paytolume", Memo for Record, 6/2/61, Sabject:

Relations with-Manolo Pay and the MRP. from

31.

CIA/DDQ Ray Volume III Information Report Exom U.S.

Citizen, Free-lance writer and part-time sugar broker,

12/22/60

32.

CIA/DO-Ray-Volume IV, Memo to-S - DI. Berle From

ARA - PhiPip W. Bonsal, 3/16/61, Subject: Recent Cuban

Developments

33. CIA/DDO, RajVolume It Cable to Bell from JMWAVE, 3/1/61

34. CIA/DDQ, RayVolume FI, Cable to Director from MASH, 11/17/66

35.

Give Us This Day by E. Howard Hunt, Popular Library

Edition, pp. 172-73

CIA/DDQuayVOlume It, administrative form

36.

37

"Intervier

38.

with Manolo Ray Rivero,

CIA/DDO, Ray VOlume It, Memo For Record, 27. March 1961

Corald.Drottersubject-Ray-Accepts-Appointment to

Coupeal ....

FISCA 1099G25, Meno to G. Robert Blake, 6/28/78, p. 4,

i InterviecratsMashlo

Pontay Rivero, Eter fonzitbonzates

204 000)

Clossifiad by derivation:.

44044

---

## Page 12

sisae

eer iminia

Footnotes - Maciebsincchhon.-

Page 3

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46 .

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

New York irimest- Spmoplled doorrentuban Group Quits Exile Body

by Sam Pope Brewer ..:

Ibid

Ibid.

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume-V, Meno Fonteeord, 6/2/61. Subiect

Belations with Manote Ray and the URR. From

CIA/DDO, Ray Vetumey, Cable toBell Exom JMWAVE,

4/29/61, #0928 (E: 106ed90 951)

Ibid

Ibia

CIA/DDA RayValumey, Cable to Be

E frOM JMWAVE

5/4/61, #t3T2 (Sie beznndenettin setice)

CIA/DDQ, Ray Votame»V, Meno fos Reresd, 5/5/61 FFOM

CaluinHickE Wi4pheperatioms

CIA/DDO, BaY Volume , Memo fer

6/2/61, FrOm

CIA/DDo, Aayivorume-vI, Memo forsecord - SBeRET, 12/19/61

Subgect Miscetlaneous Items-Diseussed with Dr. Mixo on

18 December 1961 (p: Piee fnTe giat:)

New York Times, Fuly 17, 1961,' Cuba Exile Group Criticizes

CIA, by Feter Kihss

Ibid.

CIA/DDQ, Ray Valume VI Memo for Chief/WH Division,

10/10/61 fxom

nFiajecti General --Cuban-

Matters: Specitic -Manuel(122a1a) RaY

CIA/DDa RaVitaTuma VEL, Cable, 1/2/62 to Director (eroia

CIA/DDORayatolumetI, Memo for Fecord, StaREE,

witr de eicaan a sycenbardoda!

subjeck..tiscellaneaus.tems.dLs.cusser

CIA/DDO, Ray Volumen- Rerotecionary Horemeni ai the

Peopte: National Leadership, 4/20/62

CIA/DDaiaabameVI,

Ezom

Meno for-ftrief, Iasi Force ii

jesting.taisateicoatee

7/25/62, Stbject-irnale Ray

Clussified by dierivation:

ht:i"1

-eiy?

---

## Page 13

Footnotes - Manuel Ray Rivero

• Page 4

Classification:

58.

documens?, subject: ManoteRay

59.

60.

61-

62.

•6,3 -

64.

Rivera

CTA/DDO, JURE Volume I, Cable to Director From

7/25/62 (7105: in NuKE fine)

CIA/DDO, RayVolume-VII, Memo For Chief, TASk: FOrCE-W

ECOM

7/12/62, Subjeat-Manolo- Ray Rivero

CIA/DD@ywRayoValume.V.IIy Cable 7/25/62

Ibid,

CIA/DDO, Ray Volume Vini,

Memo tasChief Task ForCe"W

1se of day expenditure or 1d2 teet Operationsi

CIA/ DDO - Ray Volume IX, Cable to Director

65.

CIA/DDO, Pay Volume It Dispatch to Chief We from

712/63, ContactuReportion Meeting with Manolone

13 June 196w, signed

66.

CIA/DO Ray Volume XVI, Meno ta Director From ChiefLua

Division 7/9/64, Subject: Chronolagy aConcept-of

Autonomous Operatious and summary. Of Einancial Support

to Manuel Artemer

67.

CIA/DDO Ray Volume X, Memo for Bacord, 8/23/63 fEem

-SabjoctesRay:.Contact-Report

68-

HSCA #00900517-7, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, STAF

Intery tea with Mano pay Rivero, by Porti/Gonzales, p.?,

69.

CIA/DDO, Ray Valume - Cable to Director from IMWAVE,

9/11/63

70.

CIA/DOoRay Volume XI, Draft, 10/4/63

Subjeet, ManuelRay Rivero

71.

CIA/Dolay Valume Id, Cable to Chief, Special Affiars

Staff from JMWAVE,eS, 10/22/63

72. HSCA #009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, STAFF

Interview with Manolo Ray Rivero, by fonzi/Gonzates i f

15411:

73.

CIA/DO, Ray-Volume KIT, Cable to Director from JWAVE

1/14/64

74.

CIA/Do, Pastinali, intelligence Information Cable,

2/1/64

Classified by derivation:

---

## Page 14

€

Footnotes - Maghalsinkarda

Page 5

75.

(This form is to be used for material extracted

CIA/DO PayENoLmercacEdocudahle to Director from JMVaVE

76.

77.

3/28/64

CIA/DDO, Ray Valume XIII. Memo For Chief, WH Division

"Subject: My Meeting..

4/14/64 FIO

with Ray-@int3-April 1964

Time, The Hemisphere - Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

78.

Ibid'

79.

80.

"81.

82.

Ibid •

Ibia!

CIA/DDO. Bay Valume XIl; Cable to Director from JMWAVE,

5M170/E4) 2// Bax. Valume-XV, Cable to Director Erom

IMWAVE,

Time, The Hemispheré - Cuba, page 48, June 12, 1964

83.

Ibid.

84.

Ibid ,

85.

Ibid,

86.

87.

88.

Ibia

Ibid.

CIA/DD@Ray Volume Kitt

• Memo for necard,

5/20/64 fron

Samuel HalpernSibjaCtm.IURE_Rurchase.of.Arms

89.

90-

91.

92.

Ibid;

Ibid,

CIA/DDO, Ray Kalume XViy Memo fox Recurd, 6/29/64 Fam

Subject: Establishment.of Base

Abroady Manuel Ray Rivero

CIA/DRA, RajNiVaLURe XIE, Cable tO DireCtor (eriNDARE.

93.

94.

CIA/DORay kOlume XVI, Wire service printout, Miami,

Florida, July 24, 1964

CIA/Day-Ray-Valuma xy, Memo for Decord, 6/29/61 From,

subject:-Establishmant.of Base-broad,

Classified by derivation:

00000173

---

## Page 15

Classirication:

Footnotes - Manuel Ray Rivero

Page 6

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

95. CIA/DDO, Raytolume XVII, Autonomous Operations -

, Operating Plan

96.

CIA/DDQ, Ray-Volume-XVIi, Memo for Retord, draft,

9/22/64 ExORI

97.

CIA/DDO Ray Volume XVIII, Cable, cite KH/Miami,

#2233

6/4/69

98.

99.

Ibid.

STAFF

HSCA

#009005, Memo to G. Robert Blakey, 6/28/78, Interview

with Manolo Ray Rivero, by EanziLGonzaleS JFK DoCUMENT

009005)

100.

Ibid

101.

Ibid

Classification:

Classified by derivation: -

---

