# 180-10142-10309

## Page 1

180-10142-10309

Jack euby

STORET

Box 24

Folder 3

1111069:

28 d

6/30

DDO

1065/49

Personzlity File Action Requeat..

TO: RID /a01 sectien

Feom.... Ann Egerter.

1-9.604

Restricted

Actien Dest -

Branch: CIlS].

THIS COPY IS M

FOR RELEASE

Permanent charge.

CISI

Code: 731

a- memu for chief, cI/SI6

subs':-JackRuby

From stephen C. millett, Jr. Doc. No 1207-439

¡FOIA Review 1 - 1977

same a 1216-441

who is

"A reliable source"

well versed in laber

affairs informed me today that Jack eubuformeri

Rubenstein, was sent to Israel last year with a

delegation at American trade unionists, haung beer

placed on this delegation by Gibbons of the Teamste

Unken. While in New York he was also in cuntact wi

Gleni Bondike... reportea to be an official of the

Histradust (Israel federation of Labor)

a- It was also stated thet the AFL-CIO hase

record that subject appled. last year in New arlean.

to the AFL-CIO offe there for a job as a

union. organizer. "

Article from Wash. Post.

a Feb. 1964 "Ruby's Travels

Included: Trips to Cuba and mexico." by Jack Ruby"

William Read woodheld.

25000

7

180-10142-10309

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

11110692

Salomón Pratkins.. -Hotel seulla.

FOIA DOL. NO. 1209-440

9 memo fur the recer d

as NoU 1963 by Birch B. O'Nea

A 9:10 A.m Papien: called o and stated that he

wanted to be sure we didnt have any additiunz!

information concerning. Ruby..

"I adulsed him that.

had checked our recaras,. includina fou's and entreba

"of the information we had concerning Subject which had br

provided by him (ay Nouember) we have no

intormation relating to him.

A 9:20 Papuh calledgain & said after seara

"there was no indication that he has bee

at FB 1.

out of the United states or that he is a member o

any particular political or subuersive group. He sta

that there was a some indication that he may have

been in cuba in 1959 while westill had an Embassy

there, and there was some information that he alleged!

usited a night club. Mr. Papin uinted out, howew

that this would have been entirely consistent with h

known actruites in the night club business. He sala

that the possibility of his being in cuba should be

considered with a "big question mark."

"I reminded Papien. that we had checked throught

Immigration am Service on the tourist card record

in the mexican Immigration in Neuva borado and

That we had had a response that they were

junable.to.develop. any information concerning his

departure on se ao sept

per. and re-entry. on 3 Octob

---

## Page 3

DEGRET

3

11110593

Iadused him.. that we had not recered a respons

from. a request to. customs Service with regardt

suen departure and entry. Mr. Papish stated that

the Bureau was looking into this matter and

woula keep.me. infermed. I indicated thatI

warld.not. press. the matter. further with the custom

Service, He is to keep un intormed."

742862

memo.

1-7-64. t0.GIA From Hoover.

mr. carlos villa, 1450 coral way, miami furnuned

a letter.. on 1a-21-63. Leter nad been furwardedt

afriend of his, Jose Antonio Juan. Mr. Juan recerved

letter from son in Cuba.

in leter

"It Is known here that Rubensen wa. here a

lette less than a year ago visiting a mr. Pranski,

dealing in tourist articles

ownerofshops.on

Prado street

between Anima

and Trocadero

opposite the sevilla Boltmore:

information

Bureau has

devlured ne

that Ruby

visited there

ever visited Cuba, except an one

occasion in 1959 wher

briefly un a vacation.trip-

i memo for James. Angletun

1-9-64

03

from AmTOUT-l. From

memo

recervect

Doe

1213-1121

Atached 1s. translation of memo sent to carlos marquez

Sterling a gave a copy. to AmTOUT-l., on SAS/EDE

asset..whopassed.it on to us.

5c. Evidio..

Pererra..... (Brigador of Giron)

informs

that

Ruby was in Havana a yr. ago. to see Praskin.

IInfo .

received. by Brigadier of Brigade 250k

Evidio: Pereira..

•(EvIdio B. perrera Accosta,

OPOR

1а тагсь

101-298242.

$20:27- Gral, Carrilo

Las Villas.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 4

SECHET

11110594

No sAs traces on Prastin

Later suggests Bureau interulen Pereira

THe is living at

8a154 and st, miami, Fla.

Includes. internew of. Pereira-by pB3.

SAS Dispatch from ImWAUE.

Into recesued. tom AMSPELL

AmsPELL repurts the letter was sent airmall, pastmarke

as Dee 1963 d sent to tetitow name Isra-Juana

¡Barreiros.

Received 13 Jan 1963.

Allegation made by sister in land of amENt 1,

Graziella RUBIO y Rivera.

what is a sensive Document Input Record.

Document Transfer E Crow. Reference.

¡sometime accura may 64 I was gruen aphotographs

by a minister who I met through a mutual friend.

The photographs shows Ruby and orwald

Together.

100-300- 017

DB C- 04902

17. Jan.68

FBI

SEGRET

---

## Page 5

A-. memo dated... Nou a6, 1963

FOIA ReuIew. .

Document No. 1210-1126

11110795

subject: Ruby

By: Birch D. O'Neal..

checked RID files on Tackeuby, atso known as

Leen. Rubenstein. Revealed. that sohn Reed Gorman a was

investigated in 1954, 1952 8.1953. Paul Crouch aduised FBI

that. Jack Rubensten, "Directer, joung communist league in

who.@ould.be.reacned.through the National Office of ti

Textile

workers! Uniun. of America, New Yurk

¿ his wife

marion Rubenstein, white might have into on Gorman.

1o- memo. Fur Chief, CI (IC6.)

2. DeC 1963 Subj: Jack Ruben

From Stephen C. Mullett, Jr. FOIA DoC. No 1212-1

Reliable source reported that f. Rubenstein

born in. 1905 Poland, resicent of N.Y., wisitec

Israel.from

17 may. 1962 to 7 June labawith

wife. minnie..

Ill- same memo as 10 6) above: complete quule from letter

"The: Brigadier of Giron, Sr. Evididio Pererra, l

constant communication with cuba, informs the Gene

Delegate of the movieniento Patriotico Cuba Libre,...

news of great importance.

1. Notify the Pentagos of this fact: Ruby, the

assassin of oswald, was in. Havana a ye

ago. He sa

fiend and custumer afaicitizen

---

## Page 6

SEPT

named Praskin, owner..or manager of a novelty shop

tourists locared between. Animas y Trocadero, Pasec

del prado, in front.. of the Hotel Sevrlla."

"This in formation recelved in miami, asinoted a

the beginning of this memollege, were received

by Brigadier of Brigade 2506, Eudio Pererra, who

is ready to verify them. New York, ag December 196

memo for.. Howver.. frum. Angleton- subj: Tack Ruby.

xAA2-72818..

: 30. Jan 1964.. States that the Agency

has received a report frum a source to the effect that

Ruby was. in: Havana in late 1962 or in early 1963.

Relates suidio Bernardo Pereira Acosta stury.

location of Pereira. Suggests FBI Interview Perer

Intorview of Pereira - 2-7-1964.

Euidio stated he was a prisuner in cuba after B.CPP

Showed a letter dated.

12-3-63 frum Hawana containi

the Ruby being in as Cuba story. Pereira had no knowk

as to the original source of infu, Letter was from a

mambar.afthe Cuban.Redcross who he correspendswi

See

NO

Dispatch

attacheer 2p. bulletin & envelup ve from Cuba.

Dispatch. to. Chief.SAS. FrOM JMWAUE.

295

2/13/64.

Ref: WAUE-1283, 29 January 1964.

"+•

"AMsPElL reports... the letter was sent airmail,

postmarked 28 December 1963, and sent to a fictitious

---

## Page 7

11310597

no 201.

name (Sra. Juana Barrerros) and recelued in the

AMSPELL PO. Box 168, mainstation, miami, Florida.

AmspelL further reportod that the sender's name

appeariny on the envelope (Alicia Cardoso)

is also false.. The letter was receued on 13 January

.2. The correspondence from cuba referred to in

paragraph three of.. Reference was not obtarnable

according to Amsfelh.. The latter stated the letter

was recerved from cuba bij airmail, addressed to

AmLUNCH -1, who was not willing to cooperate in

handing the letter over to AmsPELL. Reportedly the

information contained in the letter reached ODENut,

Who also asted the recipients cooperation. The latter

delivered only asmall portun of the letter to ODENVY

where the information appeared, of which AmsPELl subm

the following resume, made by the recipient of the

letter.:

(no 201)

"Salumen Pratkins owned a tourist stere

located across the street from the Jevilla

Hotel, in Prado street in Havana, Ruby

was a habitual üisitor at this store

while. hestayed in Havana in 1962 ana

1963. Ruby flew to Havana from mexico

City.."

3 Aloatached.a copy of stary retavace byAmspell on

29 Jan. 1964 to wireseruices, miami news.

---

## Page 8

SECRET ®

11110593

Cable- to. mexico city.

19 march 196%.

"melvin m. Bell, travelng to merico."

FromiRichera..Helms

Unit: DDP

CITE DIR

8** 5353

Date i8 mar Gu.

08574

2-iFBI Repurt

4-6-64

..re radio program @Paul Bernel @ StanleyRo

p.3 - "Bethel said that "we," and when he said "we"

he was not speaking fur the citizens committee at that

point becaue they had to be checked out care tully

before "we" would issue it at all - but "we" had

been notred by people where rudgment "we" trut

that Ruby had been in luba several times after the brec

in. relations, and the only way that this man could

get in there, of course, was clandestinely.. He then asked

who.wauld. be.interested in getting him into cuba

clandestinely. Certainly nut friends of ours. He added

that this infermation was obtained from several suurce

p.6

- Bethel stated. in later interunew by fBI that "Ruby trip

to Cuba might have nod. gambling connections centered

around the. Hotel Capri, in. Havana, Cuba, whore

front man was supposed. to be beurge Raft, the move

actur...Is sources adulsed that Ruby halbeen in Cuba

Bither.... two or three times, rubsequent to the break in

eatens in fraur 1960: one of the soures whom he

---

## Page 9

10

SECRET

11110700

¡considered. relanie! is Jose Lanuza. Bethel sa

Lanuza. coula furnah into re the background uf

ilHo and of his efforts to infiltrate DRE.

Secondsource was Salvador Lew, knownas Dr.L

who is with a miami legal firm. Lew can de

reached through miami phone FR 1-5606.

Another suurce- De. Fernando Carandi, Miami.

1 Doc. Transter & cross Reficara.

"Por doc subj. repurted in cuntact James kelley le

and German burn wife Ingred. Ingrid iden as sou.

agent. Her husband James former UsAF Intel offcer.

lowes were in cumpany of ruby and lee oswalch

some 6 t08 weeks. priur to assassination of pres.

201-289249

108B. - 21509

3 Sept 65

FBI Document

Doc. Transter. El Cross. FefCard.

HIt wa understanding afsource that Garrisun

had been. conducting exhaustive search to locate

man. named fou Dmare /P/ suprused to nave

traveled to salveston, Texas. about time of assassination

there. net with Ruby and ferrie.

088-82786

LO JUNE 67 FBI

CONC

---

## Page 10

SECRET

11110702

Doe transfer & cross Ref..

..sometime aroung may 64. I was given a

photogranto by a minister uho I met

through a mutual friend. The photographs

shows Ruby and oswald togethor."

FBI due. 17 Jan 1968.

memo. For FBI flum Angleten 6-19-67 FOIA 1a1-1

пласко

Rogers talkech@aNo.repat Agency.

Rugers. haspoken @ Garrsun Estaff

"He has been to

by a member of Garr son's staff that oarrison has def

prouf that Ruby was once nospitaliied in New orlea

that oswald uisitec him in the huspital, that they

war there engaged.na homosexual act, that they wer

caught, and that oswald was arrested.

|FeI repurt sent 3, 1965

ee James kelley howe IS-I

On. August 26,1965 sato source stated that

James kelley howe aduised informant that he was a

former.intelligence.of cen m the us. Air force, and

that his German-burn. are, anaria Lowe, nee Bernhaus

was a Souiet Agent. howe

indicated he. met nt wit,

1n, Austria, in 1962 and subsequently married her in

Dallas, Texas on 19644.....

howe stated he & his wie

met who and Jack Ruby at

ruby's place of business sume. G t08 wks oriur to the

assassination...

an Augut 31,1965

Et wurth aD adulecloue had

---

## Page 11

11110702

been arrested on Augs, 1965- illegal. possession of

¡dangerous drugs. an sent.

1, 1965 lowe refwed

ito

*comment to FAI

1 under adulce of couriel

WAVE 1283=

CAble frum to miami dated 30 Jam 64

1'29 Jan BlueStreak Edition Miami News carried

news item titled "Ruby Unitec Cuba--Exiles Say,"

Jack Ruby, killer of President Kennedy's accurech assadin

has uisited cartros cuba, exile grump here charged today.

Ruby. flew from mexico City to Havana latter part Dec 3

on mexicana flight, said spokesman for Cuban DrE.

is organisation which fat be ....

_tudentssacd them

fost learned of Ruby's. Havana Wist several weeks ago, wud

delayed making any statement until complete check had

been made

with their sources on island. Accurding to

underground communications, Ruby stayed in Havane

untl early tanuary 6d, frequenting a touriststore

duned by man named, Solo men

Pratkins, Store was

located on El Prado across street from Sevilla Biltme

Htotel....

2- ARE had first repur reu this to waue on in tar

3- "Des aso alleged above was confirmedby

auhan exile (not identifed) Who had recerved

letters conterning information on this matter.

Ware requested DeE oroyde ariginch of

mimeograph bullet in & letters

plus, dentity

recipients. d

senders. Despite promise to do so,

---

