# 180-10144-10393

## Page 1

180-10144-10393

dan Tales

PRIORIT

CIA HISTORIEAL REVIEW

XL AS SA

3/13/78

Recent of Office of Howard

security fileson

HuNt

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

Reciodic FilE Summary

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED...

180-10144-10393

---

## Page 2

4

cover to Mexico City PCS-

bath IMARE duties.....

Isaid information

that' Bannes was pushing

Hunt far IMARe not true -

Bangs is ase interested"

Memo from D05/Anvesti=

gationsand Operational

support to 005 dated 6/23/60

I Elecurity

Officer prom Project JMARC]

stated that the Subject Ittunt?

istogo an PCS basis to

Mexico under.commercial

corevasa writer Newill

be the political action

man for. the Project. in

Merico as a representative

to the FRO....

Priov to his

Pesassignment to Mexico,

Subject is going to culo

sartoforientation basis.

3. Mr

stated that

the enlist a wised him?

---

## Page 3

3

and free whales He said that

the subject indicated a need

farawautomobile to be

purchased for him for use.

in Mexico and strangh

requested.a.comisestible for

this purpose alas, he to

as happy to see the.

not usedom the Troject.

was.liriefed.on.secuntys

a retigative felo memoranda,

that tortine repolygrael

4124 dated 11/6/60

---

## Page 4

Vol

.iT.

"Oletter to the Directos, EBI,

dated 0/12/49 requestsedan

investigation of Must The

reason ent theilay

ment

A memo to the files, dated

6/24/49, reports that Hunt

had been attatched to 055.

om 2/1/45 and was released

from 554 on 12/10/45-

Omeno dated 9/29/49 rejeants

that Hunt served in the Air

Force until 1/44. He was

employed by the ECA fron

5/48 to

serial 149 During the

not employed he was writin

this memo reco

mends

securiti

yapproval

4. Memo dated 10/19/49 reports

that Hunt was given."o

replenty clearanceon sin

aw.overt.capaaityas.ouPlans

---

## Page 5

offices for, Progranis and

Planning.....

5. Huntisassigned as an

Intellia

ice Officer in OPC

n 11/8/49

Amenso from Hunt dated."

2/27/50 says that dusins

1948 71949 he worked for th

-CA, "

the manking attachi.

2 Meno dated 12/11/50 ve:

interview with Hunt to

a job a resigning to ang

of state

8. Outravel order dated 2/4/53

lists. Hunt's position.as

meauty Chief of Mation,

He isgoingon

ome leave before reassign=

ment. dhere isa simila

travel order dated 4/15/53

---

## Page 6

10

3

I Requent for Personnel action

tunt's ajapointment as

an Operations Office

in the DDP/SE, 5F Political

In 1/54 Hunt traveled through

the SEarea to sever

aperations and far field

consultations (fian travel

orders His itenerary included

/1.

Hunt with DDP/F2, P+P5tAPS

and reports that he will

'be traveling to.

5/22/54

on

12. Carbonat reassent

DDP/FE, etc

---

## Page 7

13 O sequent for security

certification dated 10/22/5.4

reports that sunt is bei

assignea to...

leaving a and we le

3/1/52

14.

Request for Persornel Action

dated 10/16/56 requests. Bunt

as" Area Ops Off (05).

station

15 Gravelorders dateal. 11/19/546

for Hunt to go to tavano

andreturn. hists his station

as Mashington..

1 Aravel order dated 3/37/5

Hunt to. I

his official stationas

1 Interies process

shet.

---

## Page 8

5.

is departing. fast

as 1/25/57 and is under

poly graph de upas

Request bination lite

6/18/65 requests a "Contract

19.

person buttype A is n

terminated not can be

"Hype: A" is

also geared towards a

specific job./

---

## Page 9

20.

Clearance action reçord.

Stated let nesting that

to staff.

as DOP/EUR, dost to

Chair

tor designated stagand

to chair

us rea

i effected to appraise

cham

change lection trite,

and Record.

22. Pating and Record 169

calls Hunt "Chief, EUR/CA."

reports last investigation

---

## Page 10

7

in 1949 and that he has

not been investigated.

apparently because he

was either orserseas on

astaffagent"

blind memo dated 1/30.

repants how thie 210

This Day

gat into the

agencyshands

24.

Mero dated 11/27/73 reports

that routine no reinvesti-

gation of Hunt was under.-

taken in 1969 and completed

en 1970

25

supplemental PHS: dated 3/20/57.

A 7/65-766.

6. 6/62-7165

RESi.

C.

9/66- "PrESINt"

PotomAc mo

roler.

over

26. 5.PHS, dated 10/29/62:

1/53 - 6/60

-

7/60-10/60 -

REsi

10/60-7/61

TO "'PrESENT"

WAS.4.

---

## Page 11

Volumn IT

• Cable (

3530) dated

Be PresidentI

stated that during his

private talk with President

eisenhower he intends to

request President Eisenhower

to cancel Ixtunts transfer

permit remain. in present

capacity.'

Handuritten note dated e/22/40.

Lays that tunt is "iye for.

ex what appears to be

3. Handwritten note.by

same individual danted

6/23/60 :

stated.

Hunt scheduated.for.TDY to

Cuba on 27 furio tthew.

proceed.under.commercial

---

## Page 12

arifinal

now working.

from

Problem"

8 Memo to Chief S.

•1 24/61

: abore cable

→ChiefLR.B/SRS/OS

mues toile

Request for. Personnel Action

0.DP/ D005, Facilities Branch,

Restarahand Publications

per. R-20-10, para 10c (z) for

~ period of 90. Days.

DOP/CAstall

Office of thi chef /4554 "

a punits offices de that

---

## Page 13

5

is filling alone sa

.LE.V.E.

he has

i Matientiong of Militang:

10.

Cover Backstop dated

with Us Army

Mala: Bastestop established

1!.

Reassign t Process

assigment to. DOP/DODS. +

r.:.

says that Hunt is "approved.

for domestic assignment!"

12: Request for Personnel Actio.

dated 11)15/ce1 15/11; reassignment

Rescarf too, aluation.

ngton, asan

Qps..Off.from.

DOP/WHI

BR. 4./ TemporAry...

13. REPA dated 1/17/62s: reassignment..

effective.blank;.C.F.t0.CF,.to.

---

## Page 14

Office.of

Ops officer...

14 Memo from Hunt to the Os

his unbe basked that

dated 1/7/62 asking

Ho work part time doing.

"translations, statistical

researchand occassional

letters bor the Spanish

Ambassados."

I5 memo trom, to Hunt

the drop anthat

usibe

us incompatable

embar

mand.

16 Handinita Memoradum for

---

## Page 15

reports tha ta securitt

17.

11/14/62 Memo from Employee:

activity Prachch/PS0/05 to

Chief, Personnel Secusity,

Division, 05

recommendsdisagarossal.of

request for sscurity far

wives jab

"Subject's file indicates that

18.

to his a deprail section

Huntchecked under.caRIP

---

## Page 16

19

Memo for the record from

reign a Restating

translation work for the

spanich Embassy, stunt

isreprortedas.fuzgang.oo.

anitas approval and

Mendated, the rectal.

ment.of

1.. On 25 Februa

delivered to mr 1a 126oo1

Leorge, Chief, FI, thermo.

Leorge, Chief, FI, thermo-

fax cajies of a memorandin

und.atetter.of.transmittal

dated 18 and 20 February

---

## Page 17

9

his nexteuropean

tina sconeying toth

President. the views.of

Lindasta hat merican

3. Mr. Seorge regarded the

material too sensitive to he

routine meano,

and decided to show it only

to Mo. Helmo.

material.to.mv.Helms.who

---

## Page 18

1D

speculated whether overt.

he ought not take it to the

White House at ance Mo. sarge

demussed, pointing out the

emities the mo the an

ndicated that nothing shouldbe

done urth the saterial until.

Dav brage tended fonder

the matter farther.

5. Mr Leorge then asked Mv Helms

said that under the circumstances

she absolutely.should not.".

2.1.

STET

Official Routing Slip asks

"preparea. memo

Za sracy Dames to Tom

sines ne wife's

imployment do it in Cagenazo

aperational benefits? - if not

---

## Page 19

22 Official captina slipdated,

2/18/3 from.

says

that

at the polid under RIP

23

Memo for record by

folated is April

1963.

Discussed Aunt's memo t

Bannerman's RS with

STET

Join 16 April

is worssed because the situ-

ation.could be embarrasing

because "Mro. Hunt is.

eagaging in intelligen

in the United States

that the letter Ban

suggested "might reall

stir up all: sorts of problemo

because of the question of

how the.

security Officer

---

## Page 20

12

Of DODS had gotten info

that had been" handled

on extremely high levels

in the ODP comples." So they

decided to ask mn leorge

if it usas intended.

to use Mis Hunt ayers-

the hally sore sing

talked to tearge on is aarl

who said he was not

aware of OS disapproval

and that. there.considero..

tiaris were valid. Seorge

aid that he would take

the Kattemps settit

the letter not be sent

point naissa ls are with

---

## Page 21

25.

lilyie that shann

peices of. information, to

take the calculated risk..."

this will continue until

she quitson 6/30 due to

pregnancy

Rariting and secord sheet

,. sp. host

to DDP; DOP and Mi

ifrom A/DO/CA

dated eli/e4 - under

camements:

typd. "The attatched draft

column by Bill Buckle

will appear in 75. 1. 5.

mega pass angeling th

wwwbackground.og

the week of junes.

---

## Page 22

14

inscript. "a

has been sent copey as thi

prestor till you pelase

ting actical material on

Man.

This Bustles bry the sane

person uho invitialla

the bornect to "DOP"

Attatcheat is letter from

5/2814 and anarticle

"Dear Howard

Here it is You will note

ve had to cut fifteer

unes because it. was

The article isa revisiof

The Anirsibile Government

---

## Page 23

15.

in the RIPaction sinc

962 and the fact that

aubyet was polygraphed in

closing of the RIP sirthout

further action is in order. "

huddly C/TRS

B Per Action dated

Reg for reassignment, OF tO CF

to DOP/D00, U.S. Field, CA staff.

as Ops. Officer-CH.

28 Official Superion's Reportof;

ulcer.

29 Request for Personnel Action

(markedout:" Operational.

services, Office of the Chief"

"Ojas tip." handuritten in)

---

## Page 24

16

asan Ops.off

30

must be filled immediately.

He will be in PRA statu

sava perioa not to

exceed 24 months."

Undated memo (Cover Slipdated.

12/8/6t) from C/Investigation

been made by Hunts office

(A/00/CA) dheseare requests

of very dubious tarsalty

en... 11/19/63. Hunt requested

nce. for

w.clearashis case.was

Hunt requested clea

---

## Page 25

for

dearance with severe

restrictions was given

thebisadan

fu the restria=

tians Qw 8/21/4amember

of. Neints office sequested

acleara

nee for.

sa personal

friend of Aunt On 11/20/19

the.case-wais. withdrawn.

3/ Ou notification of establish

dated ///c? lists Hunts

cores history 7@5/Overt

Oct 49 - D50.50

DEC 50 - NAr 5.3

MAr 53=

JunE.54

HQS/OvErT

JUNE 54-O0t 56

C11,327

D.EC 56- JUl 60

Jul 60-Jull5

MENT

HQS/DA.C

O/DOP

---

## Page 26

18

22. « palen at al

"'Chief, EUR/CA"

33 Au Apea Clean a/o Bil. App.

dated 9/26/56-lists Hunteas

being santafDOP/EUR/SAS.

3.4.

A SC aBA: dated 8/15/68

require special clearances.

35 Routing slips attatched to.

this Nary".

book was not submatted tor

the Agency for eview.

36 Memo for the Record by

C/SR3. dated 2/12/70:0 sum

may.

of'" Sive Us. " was given. to

Khomas.tor

namessines..wha

---

## Page 27

1.9

neand it immediately called

it publuched...

37.

Documents indicate that

Not the Agent redgies

of the man

muscript

Request for Personnel Action

cated 4/21/70 indicate

39.

- Bite his robile (ent =)

employment History

---

## Page 28

PositioNi

NOV 1949

H. O. (Editor)

DEC 1950

I. 0

JUN1951

I.0,

Aug 1953

OPS.OFF

Juns 1954

OPS. OFFI(PP)

FEB 195% ARLA OPOS OFF

NOV 1960

1OPBSOFF

Jun'-Noy in6l detailed.

NOV 61

OPS OFF.

•JAN 62

(11

11

JU1 67

11

Aug 64

11

Feb65

Juty +965-588196666

- SEP lek

OPS

OFF

JAN 67

--i--

Aug68

Api 70

Retited

20

ORGAN

3

O Pc/PPs16/Prograntat)

LOCATiON

OPCILA/ OPSI.COS

OPC/LA/DCOM

1 l;

Di5

DOP/SE/CH, PPsta9f

:HQ

15

POP|FEL SR-NN/CH

613-37

15

DOP/WHIIICOS

DDP/W17-4

15

• ofificeot the DCI

1:5

D'OP/@As/PlANs+REstArch/Ch/ Evnl Br.

5

DoP/cAsliod

15

HODPIOOOS/FACilITieS/.CH,R+PSEC

sDAPlDop/uis.Fislo/ch.CAstAre

1s- 0oploe e,ol the Doptops sroup.

contract employze

15

DIDP/WE/OPS StE

15

DOP! EUR ISPSC AC+ 54f.

1'5

DOPlEUR/@psistAff

H,Q

11

HQ

---

## Page 29

= /

application for Retiremen

signed by Aunt dated.

4/14/00

Interview report dated 41/24/70

Reason bos intervie is

retirement ow this date

Stabled at battam i a slip'

of paper which says:

"Howard Stunt

Public RElAtions (holographic)"

Mit has offices in hardon

messines

has indicated that he wishes.

let to stan to touchid

does provide

cored for one seesson

Lunclean but probably

---

## Page 30

4.2

Memo for the Record lu

Jabout the

Nawid st phons articl

nterree do Raymond

Racca; dated 2/14/74.

Fellas up in infor in biles

that two people to

→p beliefied (I/Ops

haid knowledge of Hunti

uniting astrities. Rocca

ws.askedspecifically.oobout

Bon from. CI/Ops;

3) any relationship betuee

that staff + Hunt

stated that the particular.

section which he had been

---

## Page 31

2.3

most.actively.concerned in

the pant years handlin

avariety of taske

categorized under the area

sight the sades the

'iniage mission of the

affice was to counter.

mainformation curently

vetered to bea partefan

effort to discredit the

agency. Mr. Rocco feels

thatan

y.assumption.that

mw.Xuntwas.engoiged.in

any for t aggratino

opinion that he felt that.

in all probability an official

---

## Page 32

... ......

.0..................... ....u.a.=.=.

.............. ....

...........

Agoroiad

onn wospanoy

. ... .

to aao.a du eea en.

---

