# 180-10143-10134

## Page 1

180-10143-10134

SECRET

It HAKIWHY

substitute AliAs RoMA 1o

Box 28

Foldu 11

true NAmE.

0256

#13

Interview ofFrank Estancona,

3/28/78, by san Hardway

Mi estancona acknowledge

that he had sen agai

stood it

aignment on hand that

had endleshment

tiondand row the

inttechnicallopera-

telephone taps. He said sha

in addition to the

taps, the Mexico stapon had

Mahoney traw

the photo operations

Estancons faid that the

256

FOR RELEASE

180-10143-10134

---

## Page 2

25>

SECRET

025>

a napole do this barenda

now who row this base.

estancona??

aid that there I

was some other type of

technian peratien not theten

nature home theat

fambernard enacting.

he left he was replaced by

homas Reenant he was sur

that! Keenan Stook over al

of the operations he had been

Wolves in din

involved in

photo

as sure that enam fould

photo operation because he had

Estancona.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

0258

SECRET

Milestancona said

258

netaintelligenis thai

teleno Hidden was"a major

cog" in the techingical de

aperations in Mexicot te

worked outside as a supply

and bie st man cancel

aerations.

I estancona flas not sure

but he thought that

was David Wilsted

brather-in-law. The also

thought that l

shad

been involved in some

kind oft

operation.

aird Milsted@asion

outside Contract gagent

He tipto had a lot!

---

## Page 4

259

CECRET

to do with all

on the

0259

thin Scott was a'great

Nanocatts files were

system

efficient registry

were extensive. He said that

scott would.not tolerate

incompetance on lackof

thoroughness.

Merycompetant, who helped

stancond said tha

fREitas the loviet

---

## Page 5

SECRET

0260

nember who

Man yes had left metico.

Sea

eat cona

sand tha

ex-FBI man that Scoll

260

Some way, with the Bar

of Pigs.

SECRET

---

