# 180-10144-10019

## Page 1

180-10144-10019 +

Hanuel.Cluel 00245582-599..

U264

16602-503

given

Mexsco..

C.A.. arost boy WHI?

.. Late. ' 62

Name

Calvillo. C.Alouso), -Manvel

AКA..

Alonso, Manuel.

Aka.

Calvallo. (Alonso)...., Juan

AKa.

Alans, -Juan.

ДРОВ

1/30/1160

Address

as

'of 162

---.

Emplayarat as of '62

Height

5'7"

Weight

150.

Completion

c/ horse.

_Very light.

OVAL.

dark.

c/eyes.

dark.

San Luis. Potosi,- Sen Luis Potoso , Mesico

-office...

Amsterdra at 29 App#t 3

122I658

...Social... Securety. Instrt-te.

1111015J

I... very small mouth.

Articles...en Camourasa

at.. UNAM.".

Lawyer. -professod

friend/. bittuffl

well-acquainted in. intellectual circles. of UNAMI. has som

connections. in the Presidency.

SECRET

180-10-44-10019

---

## Page 2

0265

HMMA -20306

Marine. Crimili...

201 - 3315.99

143/62.

Now. 20, 1962..

a reply, to. " Do Treedle" by Daved

alfres Siguenos aho is a Communist Party. bader and

at the suggestion ? k. HuFF.

In PRAI

- subject. will do reseech. and escuet information on

such as the Faded: Populs Sicilst; Ported Obre

Campesino Mexicano, Heating f the failedo Concists Were.

Concrucnism... at the Baccha Here, at the biistctuti..

P104Mwi-10÷a9

egt.25, 1902 CI/sA requisted that apecstened

approve be issued soth the following lemit lions; that the

stion will not be in direct contest with Sugeet, that

Subject should nit be made witting f Kutarh in 0DIvire..

interest in his stanty, sos charis scratine refusement

he revealed to bens:

der. 9,196,

IAMMA-19982.

dies not intined to have.

direct. contret with Lichent/l. st is intended thit FiCHANT/I'

will he contacted by liHufff! who has kino him well for

many yea:

irvisine... O gettina Aspiral grailed. 0*17,1962

Yet no. progento stil Dead 12, 196%.

tild the sent him

and crite.

refugee brite.

0143?.,21137

(1119537)

---

## Page 3

026k

..after.. gettar....

WAVE SucHames in Miam.

Hate Sest 12,44 cable fum Miyu to Duest state

- aront Libilas: @ p.2 itHMA 28465.

lead to the dismissa f LichertI in med. Nov. 65

Liter was scurily in ram when the chick I his crying toon

sached Lickent.

1:0.7,1966- his disre pot terminalis

Where.i... MOX-14128 Men.18, 1965?

#099A-4.7701 Set 60, 1974

ira in rather genese terms. but sieming to want. to

make. the grint that frime president thestion Deag

Orday had no counselim with the Cit as alliged

bys... forman CiA Need inhose comment were

mied.. on the becan piss. in July 1974.

fen -name in article = Marcel Inos Velesco

Averida Guauhtemod 877-5. Mépico.i2, D.F:

what abent Eleva Garn De Pa?

matcut shall be here.

Is..

I

---

## Page 4

026)

D04

1/13

U.11

3:29609

•POB

tizenship

esidence

iup..

Ise Associates.

listellancaus

Height

leight.

Faie

sif hair

Stamil -9.=.. Jués alteru Suoto

Caltural attache... alberu oried in Mexico in

October 1959; the first Caban representshare soice. the

fall 8 Balata. Early im 1962 he was transfered to

the UN. patton, Foreign Ileristy but returned to

Meter. on 16 Hanck 1962 because

" contetoous... rese

terrible in Cala". He is reported -to be mestrusted

by other needies. f the. Embasay

1915..... Ovied Apar

Cuban

rilechelet.. 7301, Mexico.

Cuban. Cultual attache. in Merica

cia reso plant Pregn 7. 0/59/510

ISE OFFiCER

f,

11= Lbs.

Round.

black,

has.. pock. marks on face..

Clyde K.... Shryick

Jeb. 20, 1963-

a Po A was grants on fu trining f subeet

Oguational Asseval Wro regusted June 24, 1963. Had

peot been recured 207 Way 61964.

Arred 65 pm quintonel appeal

7am X 7,63 = April 4, riche. Gle

Ogeratinal. Approval received. July 3,1965

He was called back to Cabs

..Hauh. 8,1945.

He's Pot son to espered Jan.8,1965.

They anded for satist

6 month -- coult,

aw do to whether the cull he done

wai:

In .

---

## Page 5

VIRTT

8268

is: lectus. to... Turo Olbera

letters.. fum Lies alberu

under hrrao... arrest at Santa Marie del In,

a beach resent atate. pained.

No 1966. returned. to.

hive meach intellagence....

He faced a dilemses:

stay in Mexico with bucher o petua to Cala fr

US

Ennus. gatchuge

Agas... hinto Gees wined not leave Cal due to lie grey fer s.

Hebeto. foren- ex donneCthes is 67.

Gets aguatemad uport. Ways, 1947 for contact only when

specific needs for inforsatio arise. and the perashlit,

exists that he has a could. oltrin. infroston

O piratemal

Looks like acher never returned.

Itamil -9: u trica Calderm (filed a regnt)

scatso in Texas. (Reguozo)

---

## Page 6

7/13/75

8- 380173

1411594

: Aug.68

DP•B.

eight.

deight

naples doom

tale

0269

Titanil - 7....

= Consuelo Cagecon = "Chel."

Itamil - t'a aisigumento included upsting

on. Embarcy. astrities and pramned as well as.

growing sxemglows... such as scals, envelopes I unused

and those mailed from Caba.... ta daguet 62, she

congrated well but had little, access to ingortant

information. She only had occer to countery "

diglomatee...vioas which ness thoss. not roued.. by

the Consulate.

cica.. 1.909

5. '4".

15°.

Lack:

Oaxaca, Herrer

colm/hais-.: gray.

colo/eyes.. =. baron

teeth

+ some gold.

cood

Itamil 7 was a scentary at the Calan

Embasay from 1930. to the present which was July

1962. She was a very close. associate f Tai

Albemu.. Sonto. (Itanil-s)

requested... PaA

or. her... She had furally fiended ammettery

nsful: a copy f the visa from ward by...

travelers who do not wish their traud to Cabo

to appear in this facapets..

Pricine maternal

granted Scolember 10, 1962.

sept: 23, 1962 8 Healguatero cables L

(DIR 38657)

shing for the following at

I disciction. from

Itamil - 7:

a) regart names and avoidable bin's. on

We categins who regularly visit spiafic

Cabara. in. Canbossy

242224

---

## Page 7

6270

2) Regent detailed descuption procedure. for

prieding Calan wise to an Heri can

traveles fum LA. chanties coho arrive

in. Wexico. with Mesican sasa I entead

ti..conterine on to Caba but do not

wich edenes caban visit recorded in

passpot. Provide namess. bis date or all

ouch travelles:

In Jaly '62".. ohe was speed 110,000 to. defest o

make.. statements. pereded. by ODY-KE

Ang 20,

ouatinal Asperal finally granted Juaz 24, 1963

No reports) Auy2a, 1963- Jan64.

Retired by Embersy Warch 1968.

No mention in. file of ady questines

ached. f hes done to

Sylves. Dueen areat, ste

---

## Page 8

Emilia Carballidu.

(Fontanes)

22 May 1924.

Orizaba, Veracrur Mexico.

All Landa Doe's.

- he was Kept in close scurtay by cet beraice

the was a commenst.

- No connecta to

agaway :

General Jose Trave Clark Flames:

Fol Doe

DATE: Jane a6, 1953

-Confdential

Igor brigad Malagench a WaST

Ed File#: 180-408285

3ed Agerey Die

→ only document.

201-376333

Charles Willians thomas

1) Charlis Wallas three

cang/file i Reen f 201 File on US. Citegen, form

Request for appal i suityatore lation colin fr

Comest Secunty A mad

1 Aggiale pula: Nov. 4,1963

5)

Beggle info: DP08: 20 Tune 1902 : Taxes:

) Personalty the Action Reguest

---

## Page 9

Li Hoff 53 = Aifonso Rudolph Wichtrich

Octuber 30;1915 - Chrhuahur, Mex.-

al Wickluch, Geneal Waagen) Royal Coun Cla, Mes

Ipristed Contact f C-OS.

KLM 19/2

Toluca 8d , Mexico D.F. Mes-

to be ward ans castrut fur Littuff/2

Arizona: (Naturálored 15 Sep. 23, Toubatore, Angre)

TducA Highway - 6/a 19%2

Mexico DIF, Mexeo

speeds fluent Sparenh:

sabint rente pupand by LHutt? a LeCHANT E)

dean't say in what capacity he wrked.

---

## Page 10

Liring - 3

CARloS

JurAdo

Delmar

DOB 1930 ("/3/1930)

POB MExico City

birth cert altered to show.

19.27.

5'6"

130 lls

1N 1966

dark brn hair

hazel eyes.

116 adoress

Calzada de Jacubaya E0172-50

Mexico City

ant teacker for Bellas Artes

---

