# 180-10142-10069

## Page 1

180-10142-10069

1

1121L LICHANT I iS

See Section VI, C

and significance.

fu details

1263

Licookre I is

See Sectim VI, C th

details.

142-10669

is

CIA

penetration agent working as

secretary at the Cuban Embossy.

The Committre wished to ask

04

about needig atter the

1208

Danny flores was one of

AMMUG'S ( a Cuban Defactor inse)

security officers. The Commo there

wished to ask Mr. Flares about

AMMUG'S stätemants about lee

Heevey osw Ald's trip to the ch

Laban Consulate.

is 04

Патан

Alvarez

Durant) was

a ClA agent in charge of

picking. up the photographie

survellente film from personnel

stationed at the three bases and

delivering it to his brother in

law (unknown) and laterdelivering

1209Y

See HSCA Staff Write-Upsf

of Danny Flores Interview 8/8178

---

## Page 2

L22Y

1215 Litamild was

a clA penetration agent at the caban

Embassy "The Committe wished to question

about the labor fabessyst

employees

reactons to the assassinatin.

The Cummy ttee also wished to question

about Solvin Duran

and kiss

knowledge of lee terry OSHAND.

Known as Amlash,

prominent

in the senete

Scleet Committees

Book I which

reported the possibility that the

Central Intelligence Agency's attempts to

assessinate Cuban president Fidel Castro

provoked the luben gevernment to orchestrate

the assassination of President Kennedy in

retaliation.

Cartos Singed

URINE 3 was a Caban citizon

Who was a soured for the ClA.

He had reported that Silvie Deran had

told him that she had doed an affair

With lee Harvey OSWALD. The Comm. thee

wished to question him about siloie Duren.

)

1214

---

