# 180-10082-10227

## Page 1

180-10082-10227|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10082-10227

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

006022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: FONZI, GAETON

TO: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT.

TITLE: INTERVIEW

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

00/00/0000

...ACTIVITIES.

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND

SUBVERSIVE..

CIA.

FBI.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

MEMORANDUM.

Unclassified

1A

Redact

01/01/2003

Box 118.

vg.1

NY 50955

DocId: 32249669

Page 1

---

## Page 2

006022

JFK Routing Slip

NO.

6

1978

Intervies,

Demo

Document I.D. =

ENCOMING CORRESPONDENCE

not yan to tongales

Robert Blakey

Gary Cornwell

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Tiny

• Hutton

Jackie Hess

Cliff Fenton

arla

капедне, глова

Team #1

Team #2

Team #3

Team #4

Team#5

Form #2

JEK

Routing Slip

JFK Routing Slip

Document I.D.

INDEX

spin, dovesto

Fallado

Villodo

Dooch Juan

Duran, Al peda

NO.

DATE

COPY TO

Robert Blake

ary Cornwel

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Tiny Hutton

Jackie Hess

Cliff Fenton

Team #1

Team

#2.

anuago, on

Team

#3

Varda Solandosean 11

Martines,

WЬ£º95º ТQ®¢_¢:€8A§§69 Page 2

Form #2

→ Document I.D.

INDEX

Moralas David

Prieto Plinis.

Bichop, Maurice

NO.

DATE

COPY TO

Robert Blake

ary Cornwel

Kenneth Klein

Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Tiny

• Hutton

Jackie Hess

Cliff Fenton

Team #1

Team #2

Team #3

Team #4

Tean#5

Form #2

snorial Instructions:

---

## Page 3

006022

MEMORANDUM - February 28, 1978

TO :

FROM:

RE :

G.

Robert Blakey

Fonzi & Gonzales

Interview

(Team 3-1 ssue B)

Background: Reference was made to

by

Ross Crozier, former ClA case officer assigned to

the Directorio Revolucionario Estudianti! (DRE).

Crozier said

employee of the ClA and

worked as

"singleton," that is,

not a case officer

handling Cuban groups but an individual given a

variety of assignments.

It was

suggested that he might

possibly have knowledge relative to the identity of

Maurice Bishop and information concerning the alleged

association of Oswald

Miami Cuban

groups.

Details:

said his association with the U.s.

government began in Cuba in the mid-1950s when he

became a member of the Buro de Represson Anti-Communista

de Cuba (BRAC), an organization which, he said, was

formed by the

American Embassy in Cuba and trained by

the FBl there. (The

name of the FBl agent he recalls was

Nacho Caranza (phon.)

As such, he was involved in

anti-Batista operations in support of Fidel Castro.

said he knew Castro personally as

result

of

close to the

family of Castro's wife.

said he regularly reported to the ClA in Havana

the Agency current on his anti-Batista activities.

His contact was

Among the operations he

informed the ClA about prior to conducting

was what later

became known as

one of the most significant of Castro's

military victories,

the capturing of a large train load

and ammunition between Havana and Santa Clara.

That seizure was supposed to

have been coordinated with

a political uprising and declaration of independence

of all the provinces in the eastern half of the island,

with Carlos

Prio appearing in Santa Clara as the new

leader.

Prio, however, refused to leave Miami and the

plan

failed, saidl

That, he said, would have

forestalled

Castro

from eventually taking control.

-more-

H7 50955 DocId: 32249669 Page 3

---

## Page 4

2

Associated

with

him in the capture of the arms train, said

was ansindividual known

as "Diego."

confirmed that Diego's true name was Victor Paneque.

He believes

Paneque is now in the Miami area and said

he would

be willing to help locate him.

said

that his later anti-Castro activities

consisted of

(working with

Santiago), and of

masterminding the escape of key

anti-Castro leaders on an

individual basis.

He was

able to do this, he said, through his contacts on

the ship,

Rio Escondito,

which was later

involved in

the Bay of Pigs operation. Finally, in July, 1900,

after having

informed that Castro had become

aware of his activities,

himself fled Cuba

aboard the same ship.

first landed in

Jacksonville when

he escaped

from Cuba.

There he was

immediately greeted

debrief by an

FBI agent whose

name he doesn't recall

but describes him

as being of

average height, well-built,

and having red hair and reddish complexion.

This FBI

agent took him to Miami

and

had him report to the

Immigration and Naturalization Service and tell the

fabricated story that he arrived on a boat through

Key West.

said he was then

introduced to an agent of the

CIA whom

he knew only as

"Bob."

This "Bob" told him he

wanted him to relax in Miami for a couple of months before

beginning operations for the ClA.

"Bob" invited him to

his home in the southwest

section of Dade County, a very

large house on Le Jeune Road, a number of times

for dinner.

"Bob" was married and then had two children. He was provided

with cars

and a chauffer by the ClA,

said

who

described him as having thin, light-brown hair, brown eyes

and a wide forehead.

Eventually, said

"Bob" introduced him

to Doug

Gupton, the cover.

name of the individual handling

propaganda operations at the JM/WAVE station.

said he worked with Gupton on propaganda programs for

the Bay of Pigs operation.

Among the other ClA agents he worked with was

who

worked under Gupton

in

charge of Radio

Swan

1. Both he

and

Twere, at one time, both involved

in dispersing

wou dunds to stency operatives on a monthly basis.

would, tor instance, said

→ be given

perhaps $80,000

in cash in a bag and distribute it as

payroll to Cubans

involved in anti-Castro activity in Miami. He said he

HH 50955 DooId: 32249669 Page 4

---

## Page 5

3

recently told

two "stupid Cubans.

penny of Agency money.

that now he thinks they were the only

Neither of them, he said, stole a

Early in 1962, said l

he was asked by the Agency

to go to the

• Dominican Republic and prepare a report

in the possibilities of fellado becoming eside tonifing

reports on the liklthood of

after he investigated the situation he reported that

Juan Bosch would become president and take an anti-u.s.

posture.

remember the name

7 only that he was

a young,

German

fellow.

At any rate, he said, when he

returned to the United States he was given a routine

lie detector test about his

activities in the Dominican

Republic.

After that, he said, he was not given any

more ClA assignments.

He said

he was never told the

reason for it.

"| was mad as hell because

/ was always

faithful to the Agency," he said.

His activities on

behalf of the Agency were terminated in 1962.

Other information

related by

-Following

the assassination of President Kennedy, he was

never questioned by the FBl or the ClA in relation to

either his

own activities or those of Cuban groups with

he was

associated.

-A good person to speak with concerning ClA-Cuban activities

in Miami would be

close friend of

"was a very active member

öf the clA. "

-He knows Frank Fiorini Sturgis but never worked closely

with him in anti-Castro activities.

He said Tony Santiago

knows him very well

and he will provide an introduction

to Santiago.

-He is a very close friend of Rolando Garcia, who was also

ery active with the ClA and is now chief of security for

the Venezuelan secret police.

-He never worked with Eugenio Martinez but saw him once

operating a ClA

boat in the Florida Keys.

_He has

only this information about ClA agent David Morales

aka "El Indio": When his good friend and anti-Castro leader

Plinio Prieto was captured by Castro, he arranged for his

wife and children to

escape to Miami

and be put up in a

motel.

said Morales showed up at the motel and

attempted to have an

affair with Prieto's wife.

said

N 50955 DooId: 32249669 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4.

at one point he was looking for Morales with a gun

order to shoot him.

said he had no association with any activities

originating in the New Orleans area.

said he was told but has no specific information

about the fact that

Oswald was not only in Miami at

one point but actually went to Cuba for a conference

with Castro. He said he feels personally that Castro

did not directly order Oswald to kill President Kennedy

but may have subtly

planted the seed in his mind. He

says he has no specific evidence for that theory, only

his personal knowledge of Castro's character.

-He could provide no information about the true identity

of Maurice Bishop or

any possible

leads because,

said,

he was never involved with Alpha 66 or Antonio

Veciana.

# ##

7N 50955

DooId: 32249669

Page 6

---

