# 180-10110-10074

## Page 1

180-10110-10074

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/20/20

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10110-10074

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 074-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 05/02/1978

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/13/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 3.

y9.1

IT 50955

Doc1d: 32263479

Page

1

---

## Page 2

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

I.

KENNEDY

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

DATE 5/2/28 TIME /2:15

Telephone

II.

Identifying Information:

Name

Barba

Address

Type of Contact:

Telephone

Person

Summary of Contact:

She tolo me that the

tap transcript.

to not exist as faras

she, Russ Holimes on:

Caped a a gone ans

that statemen

and the said she would

as soon as she could

check to make sure it

was covered lyour request

She said that 403/ would tie

no would

III.

I 50955. DocIdS AfatAtePage 2 DLH

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 5/2/78 TIME /2: 30

I

II.

III.

WW 50955. DocIdSI?AfatZtePage 3

Identifying Information:

Name Barbara

Address

Telephone

Type of Contact:

& Telephone

Person

Summary of Contact:

She called re statement d

requesteal

n aur request she could

provide a statement to

he effet that we had

been furnished everything

stold hen that that it

not cicceptable because we

had testimony that there

ere unilateral tronigh

Hence ue needed a statement

da exactly

what was

provided or a statement

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

OVER

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

## Page 4

along the lines he agentes

that specifically

the the do not home nadia

that she could do that Dlold

her that such a listing shored

recieved only one soriel

photo base production.

WH 50955 ToeT 3228479

Page 4

---

