# 180-10141-10275

## Page 1

180-10141-10275

SECRET

SEC:

DDO

summary

3/9/78

Leslie wizelman

ED Browder -Uo1 1

Volume one of the Browder files. covers the period from 1954 to 1961

A may 28, 1954 cable to from mexiro City reports that Browder

was born in Amarillo, Texas on June aa, 1917. Mé has a lorg

record of passing bad checks and has been convited twice

in federal courts fur violation of the Neutrality Act and theft

of gout property in attempting tosend a planes to assist

on the revolution against the venezuelan government

• Under

the name of Edward Sabatino, Browder obtained reservations

in the Hotel monte cassio in mexico on may 6. "For

info... this man considered either soldier of fortune or

provocateur. and into wanted on his activity by Havana.

Other Browder allases: Edward Browder Sabatino,

Eduardo Sabatino, Edward Sabatino Orruier

In a leter from Browder to mr. Hendy Luce (Mme-Life), dated

11-15-54 , Browder offers Luce exclussue rights in full coverage

of revolution in costa Rica, Browder offers to send a

C-47 to Dallas to pick up. two. of Luce's representatives.

In the pis. Browder says he would like to haue George silk

on this assignment. A Nou 14,1954 lelter states that

frum Time

a wire was sentsaying "sorry cannot undertake.".

SECRET

SEC.

180 10141-10275

---

## Page 2

SECRET.

summary

auritten

3/2/78.

•Norman Bathmaa.

- 201

mclusive dates....

1951-1975

1- categorize aul file on Rothman - as

"former witting

collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3"

(As 0 17 = 1925

From back at File

Four

. 2- Inare pages

author gluen

of legal pad notes- hand wrten-no date or

Appears to be notes from an interview, but it is not labelec

-le Who is being interulewed. It coula be Rothman or

-2ava m. maconnell. The

first entry sents is

"1. Daud m. mcconnell

£2 38716

Charlote.,. N.C.

2727-p00"

The second entry...w....

" Norman Rothman

...Americcin citizen - DOB NC. 2? Dec 1914

- Runs Bar Bel-Air hotel

Owner sans Souci, night: club, Havana

Dispute..with.brother-in-law.of

Batista. Moved to prouince Unub-4030

425. surfside. Blud.

sounds like it's an ineryew with Rothman..

The third entat is labelled"Items".. and lists several pounts.

Item a- "Cardenas plantaton: ammo dump

Roth. claimsable

blowup.ifw/permissiun.FBJ

estR. will assemble operatars for pb".

Item B=. "Can set up bases in Yucatan -850 - 100,000 cos t

strips.fur B-26/.napalm-.get. FC

Arango boys to staff deal."

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET.

Ilem C- "Assign B sub targets - can handle w/

Latin friends...

congo Flap cutting into recrust pool."

D-"Claims analysis Inuasion Hop"

e-"claims know. Prio, Betancourt""

f-"claims his contacts

can get into chinese commiegroups!

g= "suspects Patrick op

as being funny and illadussed "

bigra.

- labeled "R" lists a-h

a" 425 Surfside Blud; Belain Bar- Cubans Frequent -

ex-inuadors ; Batistranos....

_6- Francisco -friend-executed; Rogelio Gonzalez-"Francisco"

warname; Sori marion (sp?) - business acquaintance

Efigenio Fernandez (Dr.) - associate

c- Apristi (peru) group- contacts..

mexico - Cardenas - cuntacts , opposed Frente!..

story.re camps-malcontents/ shootings, Cardena =

commo ua mexitrenas: Last contacty-s munths aga

@ mexi trienas in contact with friends; has met,

Last met ayrs ago Acapulco; Has wisted farm after

Acapulco; Has been in Yucatan; Last there 1959 - twodays

claims Indianfrieras..

Sanchez Arango:

Has met;. Last met six. weeks ago

In last year-ca. 20-25 times

R knows triends:

"Garcia" and "Tito"

SECRET

---

## Page 4

..SECRET

-3-

d'Re sub-Fargets:

FC Target:

Invasions.(congo) Flyers. names_

Bare for ais target - mexico

2B-265 / 6as/ Bombs.

2P-SI'S

monroe Am Emb checked out Ran prevous cherse

claims airstrip in existence

..Austin. Houng -R "personal pilut".

e- Chinese commie Group

.. Claims groups chinese commiest going into canada

from Cuba. Gr.ps in Peru / Lima - ca 2 yrsago

f-Cuban Assets

How many agenrs.?

..How many sent last yr?

At date- ca. 6 who in Travel business ?

Export

Business

Nature of Des. - Coast Guard asked R. re infiltrations/.

exfiltrations. at Bel Air interviewl; also re shipments. AlSo

askedre Puerto Rico. Capability re Black market money

exchange - thru 6."

6- Dominican Republic

Last visit - 1959. Purpose +Batiste Commotoassets./

contucis... John Abbes askeaR do joh..

h- Gun-running

"Claims same people /houres.. used by CIA in thare jobs for

which & prosecuted... Claims shippeet

40 shops fur

Frente - CIA trucked the stuff up- he (R) loaded.

Purchase: 20 ft. "Reeter" - pilot baat to underground.".

SECRET

---

## Page 5

4

SECRET

3 1d Azency

3 DBF 35028

- 15 oct =1-

"New anti-castro organizaton with has- in mig

at batmore Terrace Hotel, managed by subi

/(Rothman)

who...Ls

supposed.to.proude.source.thru.uis.gangsters.for

190c+59 - under ndectment

- guns and

...ather.weapo...

..Pittsburgh- Interstate

Transportation of stolen arms i"

10 Dec 59-

"Going to.

yucatan mexico to seek a

site for a base of sperations against the castro guut."

31 Dec 59 - 5461

asterreturning trom mexicocity,

reportedlyremarked.

that

"We haue a/strip" "A compatriot

of subj:. Eduardo whitehgue, is later sald to remark. that we.

have the planes." "Belleued that both subj. and Whitehouse are

acquiring planes for purpose

_05

seting up. base of operations

in Yucatan Peninsula fir

anti-

castro... group headed by... Col.

Orlando. Piedia aria

Roberto

Fernandez miranda".

23 June 1960 - conuiete

of interstate. transp.of firearms

stulen trom Nat'l Guard Armory -carton, Onu, sentence:

5yrs, and $10,000 pne.

5. Feb 1260 - subj released trum Allegheny

after

County Tail- appeal

bund posted

32 Sept 1960 - "Approach made by subj... Who is

sod

indicted for gun.

dinning

andstolen.bond.currently.ou

$50,000 bund.

FBI

contact. felt.subj. interest straight

..profit motive

ur

hope

favorable treatment re above rap.

delleve.inspite.of derof

into. subj. could probably produc

two. mig

farcraft. iphech would be brought to states

.by. one

Lzech

and crie Cuban pilut."

SECRET

---

## Page 6

5-

.. SECRET

4-

Spitenoue Insua,.. Eduardo Julio

aka Teddy

compatriat of Rothman -

5. April 1900= repurt - subj (whitenause) lost us. aftizenship.... by

voting.in cuba.

ve &_ Elliot Spinning intendeg to take 6-26

to vera cruz..

Sara Rubin (believea to Be identical. @

Sam "Stretch"

Rubin - chuer doorman a

Bultmore Terrace hotel.)

reported owner of 3-26.

key # N32446.

31 Dec 1959. Us custom sezeu B-a6 at miami 8 another

(N28816)

B26 at vero Beah, when whitenuuse l spinning attempled to nove

1a Dec 1960 - Whitehaube- pilat ho in 19616" -respensible

for setting fire to sugat crops from air.

Asked by Albert,

Feraander.

for help

- Fernandezhas

set up a gu eralla

organization fur...ex-employzes.

- Whitehouse.

formeriy...head.of.cuban coul Aeronati

Administration

13. Feb. 461- According to Alexander! I. Rorke, Jr. , Whitehoule

has.

70 pilots quabable & ready to take draste action against

pastro. & have worked unt a "detinite plan ef action" to

accomplish "Castro's ouerthrow."

- orlando & Piedra 1201-247879 alice intanan

in charge

of Dept.

Cuban Nationzl.-

8 Jan 1960

Batista.

According to Enrique Fernandez Parajon, both he &

subj. (Piedra) are heading. the "military Section" of the

counterrevolutionary group which is recerving. munetary support.

from Batsta."

ymac1960 - subj.met or planned to meet @ ben. Jose

Pedraza during.. the latter's unit.. to washington.

reportana susa species on as mechaor) of the ves

SECRET

---

## Page 7

. SECRET

-6-.

- member of BRAC

- Fled Cuba 1 Jan 1959

- tate sores. a oct 1959- recered orders from Batista

by. Jose suarez Nunez. to immediately attempt. d

consolidate. whatever anti-castro forces he is able

for a move against castro with a particular arted condition..

1.

_6= Miranda Fernandez

8 march 1961

Admitted in 1959 811960 had furnished aid

directly to Rolando masferser. Now proulding aid

§ assistance to his former military regiment uno arestill

In Cuba working against. Castro..

He thinks group i

associated.. @FRD.

X. 7. Dispatch

Cable to Dirèctor From mAsH

MASH. 0828

sept 271960

"'FBI.hasaduised.of. approach

made to Frank Forini.

for... procurement

or two

rcraft. which would be

brought to states by ore

ech. and one cuban pilot:

Approach... made by...

Norman Rothman.... who is hood.

indicted for.. gun ranning and stolen bonas currently.out

on A 50,000 bord.".

..2. " FBI contact

fet Ruthman interest

was straight profit motive ur hope fur..

surable treatment

re aboya

rap, Contactstated no chance unateuer latter

and that had advised forini that FBI.

handle

such a deal but. would pass to other

SEGRET

---

## Page 8

gio-

L. SECRET

..unterested

u.s. gou't agency. said. that inspite af

above. derog

infa belleued....Rothman.could very ...

probably produce. 3, Has Has. any interest pursue. y

(entrre.cas.

(e)

ar Sept a8 1960-cable

Ta JMAsH From Dirêctor -

03

org- N. imier

-Releasing officer: RE Gomez t signature

Authenticating.af.F.ces - Esterline

cite DIr 0a972

reponse

MASH. 0828

"If Ret para 1 plan.

muolves. delection of mIG

and Crech pilot from cuba

Aduise.all.pertinent.details.i

Hgs. vitally interested.

(Entire Cabl.e...

trom

9- MASH

respons

Dir afra

Sст 1,1961

•cite mash 0891

mash 8a8

1. Urew Rothman Forthcoming trial local FBI. feels

Justle department be, aduised priar any CIA contact subj.

This to prevent any complication prosecutiun it of succeeds

and Rothman attempts. make deal re possible prison

term..

a. Per telecon a9: Sept mash acluised Has Santiago

Rey also approached by Rothman with same plan let A

If ages. H9s decides go ahead with ops, mash plars.

make contact through Rey."

1

Mozati

10- From mash to Dir.. oct 20,1960-

mash 1162

Request.replies to.. rets.

Reterences are masst obar;

= MasH 0891) - "FBI Still has open case Ret A. and has called

several times..: "Also desire... grue positive ansuer tu

Santiago. Rey..

..on Ret B.".

SECRET

---

## Page 9

soon.

.. SECRET

8

11- memorandum.. for.

_recora. Subj: Norman Rothman

dated 30 June 1961

- preparea by Catherine La Maistre

A- DOB-26 DeC 1914

POB - Bronx, NY

#- " When Rothman first came to cIA's attenton in

September 1958, he wa

nuing in Dallas, Texan and was

_allegedly_engaged.in public relations work. According

to his wife, Gloria, ne made a bre-week trip to Los

Angelos in september un

.uncusclosec.business....

3- In October 1959

Rothman.was.mznzging.the Boltmure

Terrace Hotel In Miami

from when he was reportechly

the FBI to be supplying

an anti- castro organization

with arms.whech.he obtaned

through Us gangsters".

4..

"Following. Pittsburgh conuktun, Rothman. went.to

chicago, where he surrendered on charges of playing

akey role. in one of the biggest robberies in moders....

crom... history, the 13,5 million 1.

losting of a canadien bank.

Robbery was touched off when.

the canadian branchut the

matra recered a hurry-up Order from the carrbbean.

for arms. The canadian mafia did not have the money

to buy arms, but it knew how to weast ger handsson

...the contents of the Brockuille; ontario bank... It called.

..upon the us. matic for. assistance, and it. was then.

that Rothman entered the picture, It upd charged."!. "Is ubsequently

portions of loot turnedup in Shanghai, Argentina, Cuba.

continued

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET

5-" Betore. Rothman was tracked down in connection. with the

above crimes, he was reportech by the FBI as traveling to bucatan

to seek a base. of operations

against the castro gou't. In this

enterprise he was associated

with .. Ecuardo (Teddy) Whitehouse Insua,

formeriy of the cuban Guil

Aeronautical Associationy ex-colonel

Orlando Predra Negueruela, former member of BRAC and head

15 Cuban Bureau of Investigations; and colonel Roberto Fernandez

micanda,

brother-in-law... of Batista and former commander

of the prestdental guards as well as president of the national

Sports Commission. While no mentiún is made of Rolando

masterrerty in this connection, Rothman has engaged in many

exploits and deals with masterr er.

6- "In Seotember 1960, Rothman stoll Out un 850,000 bond,

made an approach to. Frank. Fiorind, soldier of fortune, offering to obtain...

wamigs-one.floson.dy. a czech and another by a Cuban. Florini felt that

interest

Rothman's acts was stmulated by a straight profit monue or by

ropes for favorable treatment regarding. the Federal case ogainst him."

- In oct 1960 R. again appeared in pallas, where de approschoo

Robert E. Grinnan, an oil contracts. promotion man...

Rothman claimed

to have connectens. with. Nor-Roth... Industries of NYC. anastated

hat chents of his had an interest in purchasing. ⅜ million metric

ons of diesal fuel oll and one million metric tung of cruce or l

ro be delivered. over a tove-year perrod to Hamberg, Germany Grinnan,

suzzled by the offer, reported to the FBI.

He went to wy in Noember

and met Rothman and the other principals of the deal, a mary

alley and a Dr. Phillip Paneth. de Panay. Largely because of

rinnaris.. sur polices

thedeal.was.never.consumatees.

contamala-

SECRET

---

## Page 11

..SEGRET

TOU

"Ats of December

1960, Rothman was twing in Dallas, Jera,

takers i-nadennates.

1a - memo for Deputy chief-

w.H.Divisicn.from

re meeting with. Norman Rothman. E Dauld m. mcConnell

datea June 30, 196.1

met @ Rothman and mcconnell on agrune 1961 in office

of Deputy fatty Gen/ to levaluate" Rothman's claim to.

operatiunal assets inside cuba and elsewhere in the

4 - 6:30

Carsbbean.area.

89 P.M. Agreed that R would return

to...

Miami on Friday 30 June, and Mr. AcConnel!

would.phun.e

an Julys for evaluation.uf

"Rothmans operational. potentiel in Cuban affarrs."

mcconnell.spoke.to

privately..moconnell.descrised

himseltas a "leading polities!.

figure in the Democratic party machine in

v. carolina, that he was acquainded @

_ Rub. Kennedy, Cen. Taylor, Gan. van

Flest.", corporate tax lawyer's concerned over embarassment

...to the

Kennedy administration caused by the lian "fasca". Maconnell staled

that Rothman claims to have assets and capabilthes... which would anzble

Rothman to destroy the arms dumps. on the plantatun of ex-prer-Cardenzs

of mexico, to setup operational. bases in the ducatan at a cost ofssa-

31000, to sabatoge targets. in Cuba identted by the Us gou!?

and to provide positive intelligence on the actuites of Chinese Communit

groups. in the western Hemisphere."

Ruthman stated o castro haa executed 3 of his close friends:

Rogelio Gonzaleza; Sori marin ; Eligeno Fernandes:

cuntinuee

3/ FV

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SEER'T

a- operational capability

Cardenas....He had: agent. assets

..contact as_recentlya. 4. to.

...merican friends...

to.destroyarms-aumps.of

in mexico, said de mode

...months.. ago..@

3.constructed.an.arrstrip..in.the.Yucatan.gburlt

by Indians. One B-26 had larded there.

y-.well-acquaintea.@sanchez.Arango.consldecs_bim.

a good. persunal triona... Last mét a

-6_weeks.ogo..

s-had.thepersonnel@.capabihhes.to.atacka.ca

sabatoge.anytarget..of.our.choos.ng..

In Cubu. Henad.

abasie plan fur assass, of Castro... plan called for an

air.atack@napalmagainstcastro

when he was addressing

a rally. ....Haa 100 pilots. uno hack

participated. in nuasion

of Cuba & nuo working.for ..Congulese.

Air Forco.. Woula not

identity polot......c..

6= said he had many agents

going in Lout ut Cuba....

Sala he was in contaet

@. 6 agents

.at this time

..Agents. were in the tourist travel. büness ur export mpürt

businesses...entered.us. ua.. 3rd countrie

2-knows.ot.mznychinese.communts..gong.into

..Canada from Cuba,

8 - expressed resentment ouer gun-running

chergos..":.said:

that cIn used the same people. in there gun running acturtei

eme, Ruhnes

and the same houses, for which he

was.being prosecuted

by the. Federal Government. Hesaid that he had supervised

40 shop operations. on behalf ot the Fronte aganst cube.

He said that CIA Would truck the stuff to the

i poin

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SECRET

12-

of shop pick-up, where he (mi. Ruthman) would

superuise the loading.. of the ships. 'He sald that hehad

purchased the aul ship|"reeter"

.which.ww.the.firs.t

boat.

to support the underground in cuba. He addece

-that he knew everythiny the OJA planned in

..maritime operations, and for the inuasson."

9- close french ut John Abbes Garcia, Chef of

Dominican Pen. Security.

_ comment. byl

J did not believe euthman's clarm

at controling agents and material assets...... Recommence).

no.turthordiscussiun@Rothmen...re.these.clain.

13- memo for recora. - subj. vorman eothman

0 July 196)

prepared.by Catherine.

Lemaistre

...- During Batista regine Rothman was superuner of

slot.machynes.in.camagueyprounce.under.the nattunzl

superviser, Albarto... Ardura moya, who was one of.

..owners of

. Tropicana Nightclub in Havana.

indicates as af Dec 1ad0.. Ruthman Huing in Dallar, but.

recent repurts. plaie him

in miami

14- Rothman's silent partner in sans souci - Eu femio Fernandez Orega

SECRET

---

