# 180-10142-10221

## Page 1

180-10142-10221

CHA

DO NOY

RETU

Box 23

FOLDER 24

#9

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

Manuel, Fay Rivera

• Bey in for i Cade in Mone

of his ortetarding perparmance an a lail

Enginees he was granted a Acholarship ei 1947

hy the Chan Ministry I Dulli parka. Se

study. at the Ineveraly of Utah, Kay was

the C.S. for two years,

complite his work for a Masters Degue, (Sil)

He held various positions in the enginessing

field, one of which instead was Prozeit manager

for the conchuction of the Havana Hilton Hotel, (Obid)

In may 1957 he organized the Civic Resistauce

Movement which supervised sabotage r acte

of tessoriom against the Batista regene, (Ikid

Indel lactro appaented him Minister of Tublic

Works in Telsualy 1959 (hid) En

Bilu

has he 1959 he was assested an rehewed of

hia, peration IF Celatini Sudy, Ray file, to 92-4546,

dec. 1, HSCA 005990, PSI Ray deested Cartro

hecause of his communist connections (shid)

He founded the movimento Resolicionaris del

Puchlo (MRP) in 1960, serving as its Chief

Jean Estercs Gaminer, tecretery; Iamon Barquen,

Military Vitelligence Matters; and Rogelia Cisneros

Chief of MBP in Cuba. (CA/DDO Ray Vol II

On the sumner of 1960, Ray was being

10142-10271

---

## Page 2

Quet-# Another CIA Officeo, who met privately withe

pay.

Now 960, stated that his

political porture was doubtful as dan as 4.5.

concerned. (CIA/DDO-Ray VoL III,

Cable " Prector

Permen teleplanes is

actevely recruited by the CIA T become a

beg ate the Can a so eno

Ray Yoh I) Rays background was

questioned by the Stale Department CCIA/DDO RayVII

Memo to WH/4 Chief from Acting Chef, WH. 27 Segat 1960.

Selyeet: Slate approval $ Duclude Manuel Ray Rivaso

into the FRD Comples) I and by the Miami

C/A office (CIA/DDO Ray VOLI, Cable from MASH I

WH9, Sept 29, 1960) but he was granted

Provisional Oberational Approval by the cit on

250et 1960 (CIA/DDO Ray VoL 1 - POA form);

His personned papers contain the following

accessment: "Subyect has

deferite political action

potential, is a pro-democratic official of goverment

who is not in sympathy with acise of intenational

Communiom and who is interested in chengthering

tie letueen Cubax U5." (CIA/ODO Ray VOLI, (PRQ

Part 2) See.II)

Not every one in the CIA who had

dealings with Ray were in agreement with

this arcasment: Iu a Memo for, Record daled

1121/60, it was reported that, " ... Ray did not

Snother later

memo for Read stater that Ray's to of achone

all sumed directed toward making him the future

---

## Page 3

ported in Culo rather than odesthrowing Castro

(CIA/DDO Ray VOL II,! Teno fou Record, 2 June 1961,

биву: Relations / Manolo Ray y the KIRP from (James A. NbC/)

The mens festher painted out that it was

helened Ray was to fas "left in his thinking

that he would he as dangerous cor mos so in the

long sun). US. interests ao Caotro, if he ever

submitted a detailed study of a general propan

O attain the liberation of Cula whose general

there's slated that the Mel helend the hest way

To reprevent the airie

the Out a poople

is offered hy the democratic left ISLADDO

Ray Vol. V1, 9 June 1961, general progrous study)

Bay made his political portion very.

dear during a private merling with that a

C/A officent on Now.15,1960 CCIA/DDO Ray U II,

Cable To Deector from MASH) Ie said the MRP

did not wish If reinstale the 1940 Cuban

Constitution and Chat the Castro laws passed at

promulgated.

informed the CIA officey that he bielened

the stale should regulate private investmenta

chaute dime or meie made

were made

against Raip MRP. (CIA/DDO Ray UL II, Contest report

from allace a. Parlett) 0h17160, Sly; Nestig w/ Juan Costu,

---

## Page 4

negative

the CIA received, information about Ray from

prominent epile of Calans. Ray was descriked ot

epile us highly dangerous hecauce of his ambition

i rostrained and

where which someone else Was 18)

I play a prominent role in the Celan Government

after Castro's overthrow. (C/A/000 Ray VoL II, tremo for

Record- Jolin D. Petera, 118/60, Sulj: Contact repost ou

Meeting with RogeliaGonzalez). Miro Cardona

was opposed of Bay, heliewing his program was too

Tarpist (C1A/DD0 Ray, UL III, Luformation Report from

4.5. eitzen, fiee.lane writer. past time sugar broker,

12/22/60) and aloo said Bays was bitterly

memherx

- Literer w/ Tanols Ray Reias.

anti-American as well as probany toloctavan

in his thenking. con

SOXIA/000 Ray VoL II, Memo to S-Brie

from ARA,

march 16,161, Sulj. Pecent Cuban Dealopments)

-the

Manuel artime adwaid that the MRP Rays group

MRP, was oppored to banneng

, the Commurist Farty

and in favor of "nationalizing everytheig" (C1A/000

CRe because he

Ray VOL II, Cable to Bell from IMWAVE, March 1, 1961)

the epiles

it Although aware of his contionercial stande,

Ray was actively secruited If join the FRD by

the C/A.(CIA/DDO Ray VOL II

Cable to Derector from

MASH, 1/11/60) Ray was deperited as "a

natural leader of highert intellect, despect cincerety

the chor

and conviction." ly his recritter (Shid)

I Gy reced full operational approval an a

political asset on 1 Jeb. 1961 (CrA/S/po Ray VOLII)

renning

and accepted appointment of the CRC on 2) march

1961 (CIA/DDO Ray VOLIK, Memo dou Record, 22 nar 1961

by Gerald Dielle, Sulj: Ray accept apportient to our .;

---

## Page 5

criestigators

- Americane,

that estateme

Pawley, opposed him

Wethin a week, Bay met with a ClA officer

and complained that is was backing away

from his commetments a was not willing o

give kay and voice in the Courish, (CIA/DDO Ray Vol 1,

Cable from MAVE fate Bel, apr. 4, 1961) "Bay

withdrew from the

crepshortly after the Bay of

Pip invation and requested the cit Io give hem

support independent

the that organization. (CA/ DDO Ray

Vol. II, Inno for Record, #June 1961, tute Relations With tota

Kayo the MRP, signed

ames A. Noel)

In Octole 8f1961,

the Puerto Rican. Planning

Board announced that

Ray had accepted ar posifioh

as concultant that board o would he receding in

P.R. (CIA/SDO Rey Vol. IT, eso for Chie WAt Decision,

100et 1961 fo

Suly: Jeneral-Clan Matters;

spirfi-manuel (manols) ay) Say was looked

upon with great favor by the Puts Rican gonessment.

(CIA/ODO VolIT, Calle did z July 1962 % Derctor from (San Jian)

Manuel Ray became lactuely engaged in

recruitment of Castro defectors in the summer of

1962. (CIA/0D0 Ray Vol III, Cadle Late d 25 July 1962)

He's efforts were directed toward the Culaw Ambasrador

23 Aug 1962) me audi Cuban officiall co Parie and

Brussele CCA/DO hay file Vil II Calle 8 Desector (from

Pares? 19 June 1963,

# 1272), Tile remedus toiled s

ascertain if any of his endeavous

were puttiful,

---

## Page 6

so the two morths preceding the ass ascination

Honduras is teto

Report at Det 1763) rta Rica it in late Sest 1963

CerA/ 0D0 Ray Vol. I Dupatel 80 Chif/WHD from (es/Parama)

did: 306543, and Venezuela in Detola (CA/100 Ray Vol ET,

Memo for Record 20ct 1963, fr. Alfonco Rodriguez) densteig

his full time to JURE (CiA/DDO Ray VOl XI, Drapt,

did 4Det 63 by Rodruguez, Suly: Manuel Ray Rivers)

On how 1, he met with a CIA agent outs on

It. Thomas Deland I deceir JURE plans I

legin operations incide Pula by the end of

Decembes. (Mend ro from alone Rodiguez,

subj: Meetung co/Ray in ST. thomas, 31 det e 8580 (how 1963

JURE was I le involied in au infillation

plaw, Known as Geration Rola, (erA/000 Ray VoLII, Cable

DIMLAVE fu Director Al 3 Dee 1463) I consence when

the CIA Cached materials for JURE ON 25 how. (CIA/ADO

Ray VoL IT, Cable DIMWAVE fi. Pies: 3 Dec196: 18 how 1963),

Bay told HSCA evacatigators that he was in Caracas

on N0w.22,1963 with Rogelio Gineros and could not

recall the dates the CIA/SURE operation was It

have taken place. (HSCAH 00900st,

4/28?8

Stereo Mood day

Buses, 61858 hy gonzi, Gonzale. The JURE

ship failed t peck up the lacked materials ow 25 how.

1468 and Ray

petalino full explanation for his this

failure (CIA/Ds0 Ray Vol.III, memo for

Record 13 Dee 1963,

tom calfonco Rodriguez,)

---

## Page 7

The Cpril of 1964, word was received by the

Wit division at the CIA that Ray had been

closely associated with a Rnown Presto Pican

Communist, at Is was friendly with Querts Ricane

Who were working on the connovation of the White Houre

o the group that tried I corsascinate Truman. G

(hote: Truman readed at blai House during the

renovation of the White House i assassination

attempt was made, at Blair House -date?)

(CIA/DDO, Ray-Groosted documents- Dispatch I Deputy Chief,

WH/SA from Chief of talin, SMANE, Iel 14 Ceps-1964 la Mesico, AF)

The sonce of this information was refessed ti

that he was a "Current aret of the CIA to his

identity could not he revealed, This information

was disciminated to the

seuet Serince (HSCA 008290,.

Tanuel Ray River, Care # C02 3315, July, "50311) and

the FBI (HSCA 006468, Stern 5, P.1, FBI # 92-4546,

memo from flew quand (Serrat) dell GeT 12,1964. Re: JURE)

Bay'e premary actitic the fust half of

1964 envolved infithation plane

into Cuba and

are disensed in the JURE lection. The dalise

of the attempt hrought Rajs prectige of a too

near absolute low point among the Can epiles

(CIA/ODO Ray Voh EV, Cable 8 Duector Frons SUWAVE, 6/10/64.)

On aw effort I enable JURE I move it's ccteties

frow U.S. territory, the CIA made a firal payment

---

## Page 8

To hays group $ 7115,000 for the period of, Get -31 Der

1964.CCIA/DDO: Ray Ubh IVII, Autonomous Operatione.

Operating Plaw.)

---

