# 180-10141-10022

## Page 1

180-10141-10022

Boxll

TO

DER WILL CHECK OL ON IDENTIAR

"TION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME ANO MODRES/21M

DATE:

INITIALS

. 0/5A/20/0

DX- 6

Alu: Ha. Stepanek

as is, rest.

4

5

6

CIA HAS NO URE A 4

DECLASSI CATION AND/OR

FIELEAS OF

CA INFORNATION

D: TAG 0020

G/

OSCI

"?""

METHIS DO

APPROVAL

COMINGENT

CONCORRENCIE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGRATURE

the Atsugi Bare To Meterein 1856-

1960. Awas a suppent bas

staffed leg seignt personne

din, that perid of an

questein pls call

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

UNFIDE WIST

UNCLASSIFTEN

ise previous editions

DATE

2 kg 78

SECRE

(40)

180-10141-10022

---

## Page 2

La USE UNLI

MUTING AND RECORD SHEET

•SUBJECT: (Optional) 2.

FROM:

APR 28 9 25 AM '78

EXTENSION

Rodger .S.

OLC/CGR

Gabrielson

1133

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

•DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

Mr. Shepanes

0/SA/DO/0 • Tube:

DX6-Green

NO.

OLC 78-1690/1

DATE

T7 April 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to shou from whom

to whom.

Drum: line across column after each commentil

DC/SE Disi

the like frant

CEA/ST. D

29 APR 7978

CIA HAS NO PRIECTION

DECLASSIFIGATHN 19.

RELEASE OF THIS:

12

3.

Attached is'a

letter

from the House Select

Committee on Assassinations

dated 26 April 1978. Please

respond is s00n 75 possible.

CodeS Latin

Rodger @ Gabrielson

143:

1 a Delit

Mricoo lut will

jargan

1-5:

there were any too

officer at atly seco

DDSYTis an

shanatele

• 15

FORM

43-62

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

] CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

06267

---

## Page 3

СОСІВ СТОКЕЗ ОНІС, ВНАНМАМ

RICHARDSIN PREYER, M.C.

WALTER E, PAUNTROT, D.C

EVONNE I:AATHWAITE NUAME, CALIF.

/ містО-неча БОвВ, СунН.

ганоьо с. гоно, темн.

FE.YO 1. FITHIAN, IND.

Ш. PA.

SAMUEL Le DEVINE, bHIO

"CONH."

HAROLD S. SATEYEH, MICH.

•.&

(202) 225-6624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.5. House of Ziepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX?

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 26,

1978

LOLC #79-1690

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy, the Select Committee on Assassinations

requests that the Central Intelligence Agency make avail-

able for interviews by our staff the Chiefs of Station and

Deputy Chiefs of Station in Moscow from 1959 to 1963;

the

chief officers and deputy chief officers of the CIA base

at Atsuri. Japan from 1956 to 1960; and the Chiefs of the

Soviet Russla Division, Deputy Directorate for Plans, from

1956 to 1964; or provide their last known addrosses so

that we can contact them.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

2. Notes Flatsy

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: Igi

# 06268

---

