# 180-10142-10494

## Page 1

180-10142-10494

3/9/78

SUmmARy: PEE- AsSASSINAtioN; MEXiCO

I Kussian Embassy dranscripts

A General Observations

I The name of the Embassy appears

at the top of the first page of

eachstranscript. (Fransciol

HIS

FOR RELEASE.

two digit numbers) the

nest live gives the date of

the corerage. The nest line

gives the tape reel number

In some of the transcripts

this is followed by the

time period. (horers covered

by the transcript. On most;

of the transcripts the cite

to where the conversation!

isow the reel appearson.

the left hand columm opposit

the.referenced.comversa=

tion. deneralli

whether it isan incomine

on outgoing call, appear

at the beginning of the

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10149-10494

---

## Page 2

SECRET

2

sations. rather

than literal transcriptions.

This is more true of the

spanish than the English

transcripts Some of th

conversations in spanish,

and most of the English

(Russian ones, appear to

Le literal transcsiations.

3. This a no transcriptsan

in spanish. In these trans.

crists there are references

to those places on the toye

where a conversation

4. In the English transcripts

phrase. previously trans.

cribsed"often appears apter a

cite to the tape footage number.

these conversations are not

in the tras sorgets we onio

---

## Page 3

SECRET

-3-

examined. ed and i did a

caseful cross -heferencing

check.af.all.transcripts.fo

O three day period. to try to

Lind those conversations

y tranis-

to turn ipany

of thass

conversations. When asked

about this Russ Holmes said

that he know nothin

g about

it Me suggesting tit

5. Marginal.Comments-are.not

infrequent in the English

transcripts, The commento

sam to be of turo types,

from the text. by slash

marks.dhe.first-type.se.m

to cover those instance

when the translators/trans-

criber.is.ensureof.o.word,.

dentiti

type the compan this,

enerally, ofa word.o

name followed bu

---

## Page 4

SECRET

The second tu

comments on.

cia longer:

tion and cover a more

general area. These are usually.

prefaced with the ward

'Comment" Some eramples;

a notation opalarm in a

participants voice;-

I comments on the marital

relationship of a Russian

Embassy afficial (basedon

the observation that the

officialalways.speaks ina

condescending tone to

his wife,);...

cidentifjinga.calleras

the.same.asc.man.in

a previous conversation;

a substitutions for literal

e transcribing the angriments

f notes of background

conversations;

---

## Page 5

SECRET

5

220

poor.

7 The transcripts for September.

was probably because

those days were a saturda

not sunday and the

intercept was shut dows

II Information from the trans.

september 27, 1963-

1. O man calls the Sorriet

Military.attacke.tooking

fara. iisa. toOdessa..He

is refered to the Consulate.

He asks how to get to the

Embarganisersation

is in the Spanish transcripts

---

## Page 6

SECRET

This conversation occured

between 10:30 and 10:50 AM.

2. At 10:37 a man calls the

boriet Consulate and asks

itisnecestam

for hinto

getavisa to d

dessa. the

person in the Embassy

asks. him to call backa

11:30. This is in the Spanish

transcripto..

3.Ot1:25.a.man.calls the

Consulate and arks for the

Conoul. He is told that he.

I the Corsul, is not in The

manoutside arks, "when

tomanor?" he Comoulate

How.5on.Mondays.and

Fridays. This is in Spanish

tend smarty the to

She tell

Amer

American citizen apo

---

## Page 7

SECRET

the one who wanto a visa

to Cilia intransit to Russia.

tolera san that de wants

to at the forret embass

because she had sent him

ther saying that he gote

thenget a Ciban one and

seeking the visas wants to

know who he spake to at

the foret embassy because

he was assured that there

would be no. problem. The

mane at the borret Embassy

leave her name and phone

numberand.sous.he.wil

all back shis transcie

is in spanish

5. At 4:26 an unidentified Sorriet

Consulate 8806qial calls.

---

## Page 8

SEGRET

Sylisa duan Fibert

hev if the American has been

yeapers from the lasiet

Consulate in Mashington, D.C.

and that he isants to go to

the U1 55R where he plans

tuat as ore any that hen

has not recieved an answer

tothis.man

from Washington andi

traditionally takes four to

five months The 50. says

that, unless they have permis

sion foom the USSR they can't

sadne a. wisa withoutgetting

ermission from trashington

However, the SO says, the

man has a letter showing that

he isa memberofanorganigation

that favors Cuba, but the

cubans.cant give hi

ma.vise

without hE firtgetting a.

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Soviet visa and the 50

doesnt know what to do

with him now because

they should wait foran

the Cubans will give him

airra because he doesn't

in Cuba while his soviet

wa. was being processed and

he knew. that would take

pate while he so tas

ahablington veronicely

the visaso per

won

soon. Silvia says it is

clean that they can't give

him a letter because they.

don't know. if the visa will

that rosely go sage

---

## Page 10

SECRET

110

when it is appropriate. Silvia

says that that is what she

will put down ow therforme

The 50rays that they cant

B. September 28, 1963. (Sturday) :

Silvia Duran Calls the lorret

Consulate at 11:51 A.M. She says

that there is a North American

there who had been at the

Sorrel enbasey before Peso.

(preceding

in English in spaniah, forlori

"Please see the spanish trans -

niption/W0.while.waiting

speaks.in.english.to.someone

in the background: He Said

vait.. Do. you speak Kusdian?

Yes phy it you tallo to

takes the phone and says in

broken RESOREn/ Swas in

---

## Page 11

SECRET

your colossy and solate

nI takes the phone and

askes NO inenglish what

does he want.

no: Lin Russian/Please geeak,

Russian

MI: What ille do you want?

no: dwas juit now at your

Embassy and they took

_myaddhess.

MI: dknow that..

no: /speaks terrible, hardly.

ecognizable Russian/ Idid

not know it then d wentto

the Cuban embassy to ask.

them for. my adoress, because

mI. They are come agai

nd leave your address.

with is, it not far from

the Cuban embassi

10 O'll be there right away;

The spanish transcript.

indicates that the MOfirst

spoke Russian, the MI regronde

intenglishggerepl.then.the

---

## Page 12

SECRET

112

both spoke in English. The

transcret in Osivald's

Mericanbile is a carbon.

COctober 1,1963

1. At 10:31A.m. a man calls the torres

Muitary attacher:

Mo to MI, in boroken Russian.

mo: Kellow. (sic) Iwadat your

place last Saturday and d

tacked to your consul. They

said theyd send a telegramto

Mashington and I wanted to

ask you if there was any

a thing mersits you to call

another phone number.

no: Plaste Please.

mI: Please crite it down; 15-60-55

andask tova consul

no: thank you.

nI: Please"

(Englich transcript).

2. A man calls the consul later

---

## Page 13

SECRET.

13

this call at 10:45 Am.

The

Oswald Mexican file has

a Xeroxed copy of the

Englich tran

scripts:

"Inat Xo?) (sic) mol the same

percon.inhophoned.av

into us and sobe

no: bello this is hee Oscald

(phon/speaking, I was at your

place.last.saturday.and

spoke to a consul

, and

hey said that the ja senda

of that consul

OBY: Kostikor He is dark/hair

ouskin?/

LEE: Yes. My name is Oswalo!

OBY: not a minuted'll find

Got shay may that thything

net.

LEE: Have they done anything?

OBY: Yes, thegesnay that a request

---

## Page 14

SECRET

14

has been sentout, but

nothing has beenrecieved.

has yet, what 3/084 hampig!"

The ane subsequent and two.

DOn October 3 a man calls the

Soviet Military Attache and

speaksin. broken Spanish and

then English. The ms arks fova.

visa for Russia and is asked

to call the Consulate at 15760-55.

After being given the member

the MO asks.

issue the

visa there ?" and the MI

tranocript)...

II Info from the transcripts in

swalds Mexico file:

A 9/27; 10:37 call-Neros copy

B. 9/27; 4:26 call -

C 9/27; 4:0 SEll -

0J00328

---

## Page 15

SECRET

15-

AlSO

-DAS

TOP

0: 9/27/

4:26 call;

carton copy taped to another

page

I postions underlined. in

ed. (not on Xerox).

2. Scott urites: "Isit possible

s tridentito adpasture

4. Duran ided with"'lilvia!

_5. filed in toret Contact

ind Oswald BP-dats of

ilinginslrstion.or

notations not

indicated.

29 parts call; carlom copy

2. routed to Scott, Hoodpasture

amfshaw].

3 file instructions to loviet

contact file...

H. no dates indicated.

"O"

5 9/28:, 1:51 call, carboncopy

1parts.underlined.in.reoh.

3. routed t seatt board

---

## Page 16

SECRET

16

5 nor date

G 8/0/1; 10:31 call; Rerox

1. 10/1; "*80 (?) call;

I

1013j

I. Shave

andan

attempting to locate

anyather cantonio

rigina comes hat trans

TO TARY PROBABLES DORE 7 EXIST THE MEXICAN

I Latination on elico

City, Qowald's Mexican file, do

his. HQR's 201,and. WX-7241:

A. ON 1011/63 Mexi 6344 to HQ

reports that Dave Phillips

isow TDY in Mashington, 0.C

B. Mexi 6384, dated 10/3/65, subject

indite mice a honora

C. DIR 72527, dated 10/4/63, sayo:

---

## Page 17

SECRET

117

Mexi willarsive Oct

Tin Miamit fas tio dajo

consultation WAVE... For

Mexi: Mo Be hillips ITA

Mexi 9 Oct.

D. October 1 + 4, 1963

1. Quald's Mexican file.

containsanenvelope@foun

prints of photos of the mmm

the envelope says: "Dujes of

unidentified man photos

in the 201" in blue printing

In red script it says." Photos

ofunidentified.person.on

entering for. embarry.

2. Wx-7241, applarently prepared

in 1967, also places the date

of these photos on 174 October

as does post-assassination

cable traffic and Mexi 4453

which.refers.toassran

unidentified man.enterin

the Embassy on one October

3. Russ Holmes recently

informed.me.that.the correct

dates are 2and 4 October.

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

118-

(5-1-A)

E On 8 October 1963, Mer 6453, is

sent to H.Q. It originated with

So he Authenticatina

Officer (A.O.) was

a the Relat bia (pat)

vas Kindcott

swald's call to Obyedkor

w/Oat,; Oswald's statement

that he had been there on the

a8 th; and the ino

1216 hours, leaving 12220w1

Oct. appearent age -3.5,,

athletic build, circas feet,

shirt. "There is note routing

slipon this cable

F. HQ responded to Mexic 453 with

DIR 74830(7-2).on.10.0ctober 1963.

This cable originated with

Thomas Karamessines. this

cable.provis@@oasummany.of

DU-Z

---

## Page 19

SECRET

1.9

bio info on Quald includin

his DOB, date of defection, descrip

lion, his return to the 15, an

his marriage I.t says that the

recieved try H: Quas May

1962 memo that reported that

it had been determined that LO.

was stilla U.5 citizen and.

that he and his family had

bengiven visas to return to.

the U.5. Mexico was instructed

to pass Ostralds OPOB, fact

ab.defection.anddescrystion.to

the FBI, Mary, It NS and the

Embassy. locally.AQsaid

that it was passing the

info in Mexi 6453 and the

ident data tor FBI, Starte

The routing slip. in the

Mexican tiles indicate that

this cable went to bcott, Whites?

Goodbasture

ind D'AintaGi tood pasture notia

IM-

---

## Page 20

SECRET

20

"No, shouilal nab HQ for photo No?"

moted that the

local dissemination reguested.

was done on 15 October Scott

filebe

requested the e elbe

and put all data we have

into it. Photos?"

6/On a October 1963 Meris l468

informed HQ that Mere urgently

needed new tape recorders for

Faracoff, Floryan Randal pho

transporting them for repair

1 Masa ranity problemittis

Chig! Burtos? iD: Jane Roman

.. NOTE: ThiE

67/516/Egented, in ah

and "SR/CI/

I WArn iT The cable was sent to the

Departmentw of State and Navy

and the FBI. The first para-

---

## Page 21

• SECRET

21:

1943 a reliable and sensitive

sousce reported that an Amer.-

icarimale, who identified

these he Cald, constantl

reciesed any new

concerning a telegian which had

been sent to Mashington. The

American was described as

approximately 35 years old, with

an athletic build, about six feet

tall, with a receding hourline.

The cable goes on to say that

it is believed that the man is

identical to hee Demy Oswald

andgies bio info on hin

(DIR 74673, dated 10/10/63.).

J. On 10/15/43 Mexi 6534 twas dated

Cig. + A.O:l

ref: DIR 74830.

said Plo one gate a

Oswald.

response to. this cable in

either the Mexico cable traffic

chrono or Oswaldis Mexican

file Shay chiked Russ Malmes

IM-I

---

## Page 22

SECRET

22

de the dispatcher

o na from Mesico between

the dates of 10/15 and 1/36. Russ

material

because HQ somelimes ined

what he called "an unattributable

porch" This cable does not

hare comRS attatched

with T. WARD,

was senton the 24th

A.O:[L.N. dallary.)R.O: Jane Roman

REf: 01R74673.

as possible tuo copies of

representative in Mexico, uno

vill attenet to determine i

the hee Oswald in Mexico Cty

and subject ane the same

individuals."

1. Ow le Ostober 1963 Min Scott

urote a memo. to the Ambassa

dar's contastrewith the Sovemb

---

## Page 23

SECRET

23.

It reported that the infor

mation was from a veri

October; that he had

presses contested them

talked to Kostikor aboute.

replies on eat: 10

promise to parting

(9-5 FOiA) The

.memo.says.im

And fis determit that

lovietembassy.on.2

september 1963 and. had

talked with Valerie

Vladimirovoch.Kostikov.a

recieveda.replyfrom

Machinaton. conce

request to are an his

---

## Page 24

SECRET

2 Y

of this memo went sto.

The Ambassador

The Minister

Corinselos for Political Affairs

Regional Security Officen

capies to :

Legat

Naval attache

I+ NS

Orwald "p"

50-2-4-1| 5writtEN OVER 1)

WAISON with LEgAt

NAVAl AttAchE.

= hate a plate a petin

documents.but.will..et

having tone lasting hai.

them available if and when

he can find ther

0300838

SEGRET.

---

