# 180-10144-10368

## Page 1

180-10144-10368

LOUS STONES, OHM, CHALESAH

JANUELE DIVINE, OMIO

¿distine ?0016508.08,r.6a

STEWAR B. HEELYNEY, CONS

рому пІна! мУ.Сий МинНК, МА*

CHADLES TAG!'

SINCE KAI HOOD, LONN

HAADiO 3, IA!

MITCLE F. TOPS THIN.

FLOTO BETTERiN, IND.

MUNITIS, EDGAY, I'A

L 1120443

(202) 2211021

Seled Committee an Assassinations

1.E. House of Bepresentatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 2, 1978

THIS COPY IS NOI

FOR RELEASE.

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

office of the legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Me. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circunstances

surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select Committee

on Assassinations requests access to all files and index refer-

ences pertaining to the following individuals:

].)

MAURICE BISHOP, aka JOHN BISHOP, JIM BISHOP, and FNU

FIRGAULI.

This name is most likely an alias and this

individual's true name is not known to the Committee.

Bishop was working in anti-Castro operations in the

early 1960s. He was also allegedly involved in a plot

to assassinate Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971 with An-

tonio Veciana and Luis Posada.

2) WIROGUE - CIA agent involved in the ZRRIFLE program.

Further identifying information on the following individuals

will be given orally, pursuant to an agreement between Bob Genzman

of our staff and Roger Gabrielson of your staff.

3) GEORGE BREEN

4)

5)

WILLIAM V. BROE

6)

7)

JERRY FOX

8)

9)

CHESTER ITO

10) ELWOOD D. (Pete) MARTIN

180-10144-10368

---

## Page 2

Mr. Patrick Carpei

March 2, 1978

Page 2

11)

12)

FREDERICK RANDALI

13)

JACK RANDAII

14)

KAN TAKAI

15)

DORIS WATANABE

16)

LARRY WATANABE

17)

WIM WOODS

18)

LOUISE WOODS

19)

PETE WHEELER

20) SHIZUO YAMADA

Whether or not any of the individuals listed below had

any relationship with the CIA, they may believe that actions

they have taken were at the direction of responsible persons

in the Central Intelligence Agency. Accordingly, in order fox

the Select Committee to obtain truthful statements and ulti-

mately testimony from these individuals, it would be most use

ful for the Committee to have a letter from your office re

leasing these persons of any obligations of secrecy they may

have made to the CIA, or to anyone whom these individuals may

believe was affiliated with the CIA.

Anne Goodpasture

David Phillips

Robert Shaw

Robert Zambernardi

William Bright

Allen White

Ricard Helms

James Angelton.

Raymond Rocca

E. Howard Hunt

Thomas Karamessines

Ranon-Joseph Alvarez Durant

Jack Whitten

Charlotte Bustos

---

## Page 3

MI. Patrick Carpentier

March 2, 1978

Page 3

Joseph Burkholder Smith

Rudy Bruno

Dan Vogel

Arthur Dooley

Wesley J. Leibeler

Howard P. Willins

W. David slawson

William Coleman

Samuel Stern

George Frederick MunIo

J. Deering Davidson

Floryan Randolph Karty

Oliver N. Primack

Finally, this letter serves as written confirmation of

an oral request by staff researcher Dan Hardway for:

1).

Originals of any existing surveillance production

and logs of any operations directed at the Soviet

and Cuban Embassies for the period of 9/26/63 to

to 10/3/63, in Mexico City-

2) Any 201 files pertaining to FNU Nunez Portuondo.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

S. Notes Blahe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : jhd

---

