# 180-10144-10220

## Page 1

180-10144-10220

Questions to Bernard Barker:

865-8241

Box 30

flar

Associations: $

Did you know the following individual in Cuba?

1.

Dr. Mario LazO

2.. Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari

3. Were you acquainted with the following individuals

involved m. anti-castro actinities?

MS COPY IS 159

FOR RELEASE

Pre BoP.

1. Frank Fiorini

2. Pedro. Diaz Lauz

3. Marcos Diaz Lauz

4. Bill Johnson

5. Raipaldo Pico Ramon

6. Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez or (Ternander)

7.. Pedro Martinez Fraga

8. Alexander Rorke

9. Mignee "Cuco" de Leon.

10. Aldo vera Seratin

11. Cartos Peleaz

12. Richard Zaragos;.

13. Antonio Veciana.

Artine

14. Manuel Antonio de Varona.

15..

Marion Coubi.

16. Quentin Pino Machado

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10144-10220

---

## Page 2

c were you acquainted with the following individuals?

9.

10;

rector

3.

4

5. Frank Bender.

6. Howard Hunt.

Bernard Reichardt.

об

BOOT N. TortO

Aritorila

5E4-1354

Ask of all associates:

1. Nature of relationship durily these periods of lime:

1959-60 Hara

1960-61 - Pre- Bay of Pigs

1961-66 - Post-Bay of Dogs.

---

## Page 3

Events:

Did you ever receive information regarding:

/... Alpha b6 activities, especially

referding

Antonio reciana. in 1962

2. Activities of Erelio Duque ligar in 1963

3. Allegations that Mus. Rusebio Mujal walkin

v.s. ajena

by aun contact a relative in the

castro Cabinet in safe to assist in the

overthrow of the Castro government.

4. Actinities of Cuban groups, such as

- the CRC

- JURE

- Funta de Gobiemo de Cuba en exilio

(Paulino Sierras group)

s. Activities of the Diaz han brothers, Frank

Forini & Bin Johnson in 1963.

6. Plans to assassinate Castro. Did anyone

discuss such plans with you?

@flusts investifation into the assassination (ca. 197p3)

1.. Did you ever hear bent from any source that

a Castro Cuban was supposed to assist

in Lee Harvey swalds escape to Cuba, tolloin

the assassination!

---

## Page 4

Travel:

Did you travel outside Cuba in 1959? Where?

ster leaving Cuba e

Did you travel in your activities with

the.. FRD?

Prior to the Bay of Pigs,

where did you travel?

Did you go anywhere imite shortly

atter. The bay of higs?

Did you travel m

1962?

Mand

Travel Win U.5.

Did you travel in 1963?

Documentatin:

spril

Then you travelled, what identifying

credentials did you carry with

you?, ед.

drivers license, dratt card, sendID,

Did you have a passport under your own

or. another name?

Wha' fo sument Cid you use when your

Who issued these documents to you?

left Сиа?

---

## Page 5

from

Hurts

book

Huntsbook

Employment:

What were your activities with:

as. Militam-1942-1950

Cuban Police Dept

How were you employed 1951-1959 to present,

Especially for periods: 1959-1960

1960-1966

1966 - to present?

US. Agency Association:

Did you ever have contact with bis. Treasury Dept

when you still tired in Cuba?

Did you have any contact with the FBI while

you lived in Cuba?

Did you have any contact with the American

Embassy in Cuba?

When did you begin your asssciation with

the CIA?

When did you first meet Prank Bender?

When did you first meet Howard tent?

When did you become his assistant?

How long did you remain his assistant?

Did he help you bith set regards to your

citizenship stattes? When?

Who else assisted you?

Did Hunt assist you in anx ther way?

---

## Page 6

Chron:

1960-61

Phile working for. Hunt, did you have contact

with: мапие!. Artime

or

Antonio Varona?

Did you disture any funds to these pindividuals?:

Did you kuow Pedro Diaz Lanz?

Did you ever give Diaz hans any money? t

Did Hunt ever request of supply.

any money

for you to give to Diaz hanz.

were you ever present at any meetings with

Dias Lant and tent?

Did you ever assist in obtaining tunds for

the repair of an airplane used by Diaz

Did you ever assist in Obtaininy fund for release

official

"of an airplane used by Diaz Lauz?

Did Hunt ever have occasion to investigate the

possibility of an association betwees you?

Fiorini prior to 1962?

was Hunt ever aware of any association

between you and Porini prin to 1962?.

1961→

Atter the Bay of Pize in 1961. did you continue

towed work for the ayency in Miami o

elsewhere?

What was the nature of your activines during the

remainder of April? Мау? Jиж?... 1968.

What travel did you tendertake. in tuatherance of

---

## Page 7

this activity?

Did you at any time during this perinal

travel to other localities within the

continental u.s?

Did you, under your own name or any body

elses, become involved m any foreign

ravel thre out the hesten Hemisphere

burope? Asecohere?

Who accompanied you?

Werew did you leaved whew did you retan?

What reports did you mace?

Did you eugage in any activities, dandestin

or Aherwise, Which

you did not dieuss

or report to your case officer?

fom whom did you was from Summer 1961 to

december 16?

the summer of 1961.

shippose when were you next

in contact with Horasterd

Hunt?

What was the nature of these

subsegrent contacts? ]

28kernt6, 61-64.

With whom in the anti-castro community in

vian aid you retain contact? Tuse wot

What was the nature of the contact?

---

## Page 8

tozethore

mos FRO

militay head

de Varona

Antime

- head 4 CKC - lost cIn

+ suppor

mr April

in Wre. -training invesion -

Caulos Frangu!...

- defecter to France 250

Juan Almerda - Lead of AF

Regeno Boti - calomet

---

## Page 9

Piet:

• =

QUESTIONS TO BERNARD BARKER

ASSOCIATIONS:

A..

Did you know the following individuals in Cuba?

1. Dr. Mario Lazo

2. Dr. Miguel Alvarez Miari

B.

Were you acquainted with the following individuals involved

in

anti-Castro

activities?

1. Frank Fiorini

2. Pedro Diaz Lanz

3. Marcos Diaz Lanz

4. Bill Johnson

5.

Reinaldo Pico

6. Santiago Alvarez Rodriguez

7. Pedro Martinez Fraga

8. Alexander Rorke

9.

Miguel "Cuco" de Leon

10.

11.

Aldo Vera Serafin

Carlos

Peleaz

12.

Richard Zaragosi

43.

14.

Antonio Veciana Blanch

Mariou. Coubi

15.

Quentin Pino Machado

16.

Manuel Artime

17.

Antonio Varona

C.

Were you acquainted with the following individuals?

1. Patrick Karnley

3.

Woodrow C. Olien

mL

---

## Page 10

BARKER, page 2

4

5.

Frank Bender

---

