# 180-10145-10236

## Page 1

180-10145-10236

BoxS

Folder 4

SECRET

File summary

DDO File

Leslie wizelman

submitted 3/7/78

Daminick Bartone

THIS COPY IS NOT

aka Nick Barton

Vol 1 of the Bartone file

FOR RELEASER

the period frum December 1955

to september 1960... A 201 file request was made on Dec 30,1951

Bartone's DOB. is 8-8-13. Characterized as a smuggier.

Under comments in aol. file request form: "In as much

as he carries a gun at all times he is considered armed

and dangerous. Arrested by U.s. Custums agents, miami, for

atlempted bribery and departure of munitions laden

plane destined fur Dominican Republec."

it is

reported that the

manager of the panama City branch banke

informed.

on AugaY that a Dominic Bertone,

sent a lawyer with a large amount of cash to Panama

City bank, miami, to opena checking acc't. Manager

delayed accepting acc't. He indicated bellef that funds were

connected with William margar.

In a cable to the FBI fronthe cIA dated

Aug 25, 19596) - repoits thaton Augas, 1959 a fairty

reliable source reported that the person whom Bartune

sent to open the account was Andrew Psalidas, law partne

of Gregory Paniles: Psalidas was carrying a total of

$70,000 of whkh 15,000 were 1081000 bl4. The only

authorized signatures on checks to be that af Dominic

Barone, and local legal lep was the firm Ariary

Fabrega, and Fabrega.

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

SECRET

180-10145-102360

---

## Page 2

SECRET

An Aug a?, 1959

states that

who.

stended the meeting of morgan with Cuban Counterreudlutionaries

reports that the meeting was held in the home of Dominic

Bartone., 4a36. Chase Aue, miami Beach.

morgan recesued $ 140,000

from counter-revolutionzre fur use

against Castro. Public accounts of murgan operation indicate he

received unty $75,000 .....

Hala. interested in determining

amount and whether morgan holding. out on Castro, or if

money to be used as secret tund by castro to finance other

revolutionary actions or personal use.

An Aug 27, 1959 cable to the FBI from the CIA reports

that

Morgan, Lemus (FNU), Ramon maestre, Antonio

mendora were present at meeting in Bartone's home. morgan

was. given $8140,000 in cash by maestre & mendora.

In march 1959

it was reported that Bartone was trying

to sell some Globemaster (C-74) aircratt to the Cuban

Revolutionary Air Force

and had befriended morgan.)

It is belleved

that the fund Bartone's lawyer took

to panama are connected with morgao.

HDQ comment:

norgan publicly declared in Havana that he had receried

$ 25,000 from the counter-reudutiunaries for use against

Castro, The tunds sent to panama city may be the difterence

between the amount declared by margan and what be

actually recerved."

SECRET

---

## Page 3

3- :

SECRET

A document transfer and cross reference form, datec

Oct as, 1954 , reports that. Bartone said the case. against him

in miami

was being fixed. Bartone was in possession of a 1

checks. for $50,000 each drawn on foreign bank, issued to him

by a Batista group in compensation fur amplanes, He sald he still.

had 10 planes to dispose of.

...Bartone reported tu be

connected with. Teamster Union officiáls in Cleveland, onio.

Another cross-ret form, dated 5 may 1960,

reports that Joseph Charles Liquor; was arrested with

Bartone for shipping weapons to Dum. Rep.

vol. a of the Bartone.

..file covers from Notatiato

Oct 1960 to June 1961... A Nou a4, 1960 cable reports that

Bartene is engaged in revolutionary activities on behalf of the

Dom. Rep.

He attempted to ex illegally export one 6-74

arcraft

-,ammunition, etc. Arrested. He was nuolued with

mas Garera, Jampa, Flam attempted exportation ot one B-a5

type aircraft and large quantity at AF-6 arcraft parts. Also

reportedly involued with invasion os Cuba from Dom. Rep.

prearranged by Trujello.

uol 3 of the Bartone file covers theperiod frum July 1961 to

Sept 1965.

A cross ref, date 14 may 1963, states that Bartare

was associate of Herbert I. Marcisón , reportedly nuolved in Hartian

Revolutionary actuates.

Onsept 8, 1965

, the Secret service requested inta on Bartone.

as Sept 4, 1959,

#60,000 had been withdrawn

from account by Psalida

"possibly to be deposited in the French

3anco Fiduciatio

in Panama City: Relers to Customs, Deusseon of

nvestigahon and Enforcement, -memo

# 23-944 dated Now 15,1960.

SronLi

---

