# 180-10145-10239

## Page 1

180-10145-10239

Box 54

FY.

#10

SURELL BRADY

3/7/78

VLADIMI ROVICH

LOSTIKOY, VALER THIS COPY IS NOT

201-305052

3 vOLS.

FOR RELEASE./

11110762

101. 1-1959-1962

150cc1962

MO asps NEFVEDOr for either SaenAshEr

or kostikov. Neither of them is in. NEE

asks who is spearing. VSEMOCHKIN/ pR./. MC

says that NEF docent frow him. "He are

passing through Mexico. NEF tus NO tO

Told the uve. Even takes phone. Morepent

His name-VSEMOCHKIN. No say that kOst

Kor promised to come over. KosT Kor tapes

No so dest fee are one ani

able right now, Kest says that everything,

opens at 1000. Mo says we wile be

waiting for kost./ apparently no ard

outer are going to Habara.I Mo asks if

ROSt could get 500 dolar that "we"

have spert of the trip. Kost will see about

it..

DOB 3/17/33 MUSCOW.

EMPLOYEE, SON. EMB., MEXICO CITE, DOI JUNE 1961

180-10145-10239

---

## Page 2

KOSTIKON

VOL. II JAN. 63-DEC.L4

11110763

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSSREFERENCE

15 SEP 64 FBI

"He file of this thraw do not coster; any

To to fully support statest in par fire

if your proposed draft to effect that suby.

belved to work for Dept shiter of this

Chie Mirictorate of Com for State Secu

rity $ KEB/

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

4. DEL 1963

1307or indicate no particular deiration

I eir rode activitie, no trave out

ode thot."

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

23 Nor 1943

at 1250 has or 22 For Cubar Consul

suspect KGB Pavel antoroice Yatspor.

fatter apparently trailable and

---

## Page 3

1111076-1

Koscifer care or live wire foll co.

eration ensuing is failiar for 't

Ros: forgive se for ariving late

his: Dis you recover the suitcase?

Kos: ye

mer: Her it was assivin of the

oder trip?

Kes I called to te your the foe.

loving, Hatregarding that matter that

we had tilled about, to fee i sie

would sped furday in Chapulteper

Park be cause my life is preparing

some food to eat re.

Has; I' sony but i've just made

plans for arotter thip and disharing

this very day. So please forgice he for

not being obe to go whet you, Cat this

point tast tor in essor cordressed

his...

heckpite you scready talked of

mir: i'd like to talk up loved yut

spor

Kas: Wait a minite, he'is corre now,

Then! If tes busy d'll call henr

later, but d'le be acrilable for the reft

---

## Page 4

11110765

Kay tour at fee 20, 1 28 47

Ros" OR

---

## Page 5

- SECRET

4/13/78

111.10:65

aspatch

19/5/63

to: Chief, wa suition

ther: chiff faciar, exico City

0sun1s

subgic checked in Hote Rosset,

averida tsurgentes 287, Trexico D.F.

at 1600 hrs: or 1/25/63, Roor 203

or 11/27/43 at 2100 hours cuparted for

Havara Cabara Highe #465 as

ory passenger ly chee o rive

used u.s. passport 4310162 whit

contaired a cubar Courtesy ro

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Jopes

4/13/78

classified message

3/20/64

11110767

Enrique Ruiz Fontalo, Agerp tr

Fideral gudicial Polici, informed fasa

too ore p his coraces reported in

late Jeruary that Flirts Lopes

4.5: Citizer, was roled in tresi.

dent Ferredy's assassiration

---

## Page 7

ropeg

4/13/78

FBI reno 105:126109

11110763

3/31/64

Judgeit reporter by sources to have

atterded gathereres pEPCC is private

rendercis dampa, 2ea.. 11/20/63 ard

was expecting to get phone cale thos

Cuba un onder to get wand on his

departure for Cuba.

oftaired that, tourist and at toro.

any Consulate ghetto is tampa

11/20/43, entered trex, dy private auto

i'/23/43 ard departed tress lizy er

oute to Haraja 11/27/63

U. 5. State Papc... coraiis no record o

promisers rose, high trage

Tany Quist to sow color sudies

taper in Cuba

Jopey ider puid by plots as taving beer

presert at the meeting.

---

## Page 8

SEUMEN

11110763

cristira aros, Caricater, Ja, alos

tad fACe meetings at ter tome

Lastard Hane amor tad feer

Ay 19.63 they noved to tampa

cristirá aro arroucid al 12/8/63

meeting that fopy lo anteved

safely ir Cula

casted courtegy labar vesa

Jopey tod dud tis detiracion cos

metico, valed. for 15 das

Louis tieze, tampa are ar trese do.;

205 East Lyler Se, Jazon Placio

ad for EPCC ir Jampa, Libere or 5/1516

Janpa fpcc dud ot exist at that ture

": Organized 1/91%1

---

## Page 9

4/13/78

11110770

Huberto Porcarpo Lopez

FBI report 8/26/64

Fic 20: 105-126109

registered for delete ferrie arter

hest, 11a. 1/29/60 are Classified 4-F

423/02 due to larguage baruci;

under redicación for gravo val epi

perracred. ir. u.s. about a year ard ther

starred to Cuba because @ tomesice

res

cousir fuermo Rodriguez adersia

tar suby is pro: Casts fil not in.

volved in pro castro accierty in U.5°

bor 126/40 in Havara

U.s. passport #310162

lived wies use Rave Rodriguez.

1124 Semirary soreet

employed at our Bakery in Key tast

dese. 57, 126 is, drows hair, freer

eyes, ruddy complexion

broiters:

secto serves o, Cubar micitia

---

## Page 10

-SECRET

11110771

* Rainerdo forecarps fopez

here to Russia by cutor governet t

sudy

Afe. Key best in lace 1963 to go to Lampa

to atrenot torturo to cuba

tad returned to 4. 5.1960 0 1961

because he was afraid being ted

into the Cubar initia

wed to bearch area for on

8/1162 before a botany Public in Key

is 1964 employed at hereress, tre, Key.

wye plated suty did not tave jure

to travel to hate to and Cuba; he

an unrecallid aganization, presen

ably in the Jane area

suby: tad appartly tad no pio

iscony pepile pay before coming to the

4.5.

treatid ly Or.

Car D. Magrat, 3201

---

## Page 11

ragles avence, Key hid

11110772

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

4/13/78

11110÷73

classifind message

Date: "1 gue 60

into

15 22

tow.

Ry (B0129950)

". Juby re wen krowr tolFo and pre-

crously

contacted by douala p]

Robey

2. Appreciate the offer tet at present

Probey for leave therefore defer to

Hp for full decreeting

SIGNET

5mc

---

## Page 13

methicas

4/13/78

DDO

SEGRET

11110773

3 Tray 1977

Hero for: Chig, tops and predey staff

How: Charles a. Briggs

DDO to Review officer

Regues +0. 8-76-1861

B. 05 Ryersal dated 1 Dee1976

5. He joelowing do curests souls be

referred to the appropriate fort.

agencies and comporents as idicates

Jab 0)

Doc. # 125

FBI. Report or

In dept 196t, wher vertions sugice;

this reproductor is sot very legible

7. Ki Directorate also las turo

enligence enformation Report

---

## Page 14

4/13/78

SECRET

11110:74

fice 64102798 (old file C70300)

inclusive Rate: Tray 58 three OCt.76

cussfied tessage

7 для 60

20-20

in e0s Cire (B20179956

Redskin

Riscilia gohnsor, age 32, you forg

board, for past two yars employee

horts america hewspaper alance

Moscow, now umployed because o

Soviet refusal. to renew isa, scop

, or we

back to united States. Purpose o Bad

Hodesteng visit is to discies her

future wit id Lattermayer, born

correspondert of Hall tee goral.

who old acquaintance, Marlene R.

Gerton, who acquairted w/ tacter

rayer, will see gohnsor. attrough

doubtless hp ure doubtless wis

debrief. ter upor reture to fates,

Caden or could alarge for intro

duccion O1

ficer for social and

exctage rein meeting is Bad Took

---

## Page 15

beng if descrid

11110:75

---

## Page 16

SECRET

713/78

DDO

Reporcho.

11110776

Dare Riser.

19act. 12

country: U55R

Dated topo.

Pacet Rate facg.

files Reports attent or Khusher

Or to septerter 1962, while crating

moscow, a talked with a fariet fiers

juto is a free cance jaratise.

-SECRET

---

## Page 17

4/13/78

DDO

Reportho.:

Date fiser:: 24 Oct: 62

courty: USSR

11110777

Belgice: Stanges in Cultural Afairs

incy official Patronize thiers

---

## Page 18

11110773

SECRET.

---

## Page 19

ADDO

SEGRET

11110780

13 DU 1977

henofor: Chiy, ipo and Presey Staff (U)

Son: Robert E Over (U)

espo Rurew Offices

Reference

(c) after considering te concer

expressed by thr. Zebele in RaperesceD,

we agree that ale rerences to passbe

Too or refusse

stouto le derid ter. Record?

injly, ic tave further santiped the

jowowing docurrents to refue this

tange:

: 63, 64, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81,82,

$3,87,85,86,88,89, Are 90. Resanitizad

copies of the dacinent tave beer

rseited

no i proper places in

the letter and in the 19s toldrack

package....

SECRET

---

## Page 20

DIDO

DEGRET

Cosafied ressagi

Date: 3 tray 58

to. enictor

fron

11110781

I. Subj reports tes receives four-

morts tourist soviet via ard pan

depart with next two weeks. Upos

arrivai hoscow wil explore job posse

paris opportunities. Hans tape

boat tra bega..

2. Subj. has agreed "Entassy" driefing,

prior departure, Expresses cing

ress do utat could during tire

moscow, hatter not puroved sire

subpect not yet cleared.

3. subj. has sor friends won wiie

coract upor arial, all from in.

actual ard artistic cries.

Beluve after careful briefirs

wo letter mailing:

3E0RE7

---

## Page 21

11110:82

SHESOL PRISCILLA

200102798

crew g die or US, Citiger Citigen gar. gar.75

car nose accurately be categorizid as.

www.g collabora.cor.

---

## Page 22

4/1/78

.U.s

111107₴3

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF INVESTISATIVE.. ACTIOU

TO: CIL OPERITTONAL APPROVAL ANO SUPPORT DIVISION

SEC: SUPPORT DIVISION/ OFFICE OF SEC.

251x7 1962

SPELIFIC AREA OF SE

FULL DETAILS OF USE

SECRET.

RIT

---

## Page 23

-SECRET

4/17/78

0.s.

1111078-4

THIRD AGENCY DOCS:

O FBI REPORT DATED 24 IN 56

@ STATE CABLE FROM MOSCOW TO GEC OF STATE

DATED 22 JUNE 1960

coNTRa # 16476

EMBT EL 3154

SECRET,

---

## Page 24

SEGRET

11110785

NDICES

AD Nt TiMES... 20 MA 64... ONUALD, LEE H

10 MEMO DATEO 15 FES 1962 IN FILEE WALLROD,

GEORGER.

# WINTERS, GEORGE P., JR.- 16 DEC. 1960

MEMOTO CHILI/SRS

2/25/57

#90079

JONIUSON, PRISCILLA

HOTEL METROPOLE

MOGCON UnR

* MEMO FOR CI STAFF 10/30/58 - P. 6

-SECRET

---

## Page 25

SEGRET

11110786

CHIEF SRS

25 NR 1967

M.D. STRENG

SUETLANA STALINA

#505112

The ThEN PRISeLA JONNSON WAS Of INTEREST

IN TNE OULD CASE, IN TAT SHE MET UND AND

INTERNIENED HIM IN MORON SOON AFTER HIS

ApRIAL THERE AND REMATION OF NIS U. 5.

CITIZENSHIP. AFTER TRE ASSASSINATION SHE UROTE

A NuRER OF ARTICLES ABOT Nu.

...

THE INDIVIDUAL WIO APPEARE TO BE MASTERMINDING

SALINA'S VISI TO THE COUNTRY ANO THE PUBLICA-

TON OF NER BOOK IS GEORGE F. KENNAN, # 31883

(OT C), FORMER US AMBASSADOR TO THE SON. UNIDIN.

IT WAS. NO UNO RECOMENDED PRISELA JONSON

MCMILLAN TO HARPER ANO ROW AS QUE OF FIVE

RUSSIAN SPEAKINCO EXPERTS, MR. KENAN SEEMSTO

B0 ACTING IN CONCERT WTH EDWARD S, GREEN-

BAUM, WHO BECAME STALINS PERSONAL CONSEL

AFTER VISITING HER IN SWITZERLAND

SEGREt

---

## Page 26

SECRET

4/12/28

O.S.

11110787

LAPPEARS TO BE INO ADDRESS BODE TRACES

(8) PAGE 6I LPAGE 22 OF REPORT )

JOUNGON-MOSCOw

..!.

JONSON'S ON FILE HAG BEEN REVIEWED 31

Of C IN REGARD tO THE OWNS

MATTER.

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

11110783

8 APRIL 1964

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

ADDRESS BOOK

FBI RPT 12/31/63

Reference is made to precrois reara

concernig item four in subc's

addres took. the focowing additiona

Ho was noted from the file fos:

Exiparate pages:

sero to file

#3u Darmar, Mansi (Tarcy)

Otkrets (sper from 11.2.71

...Brographic Register. nancy dan.

now, or emplayer fthe that lept, was

four 8 hay1919 in lirais, the fa

vr assigred to several past in the

ton cast and is curtestly in hand

I31 Oglondon, Xit your

William He gobson

#284.47

#401

625 BS

-SECRET

---

## Page 28

SECRET

11110783

Bore 10 8e0r1907 in Wash. p.C.

1934-39: teaching tresearch in Europe,

prenanty. Usse

contributea articles to Daily Worker

1941-47 goboor and to wife were

connected. us cited agangalin

close associates reported as renters

9. 7e Carm. Party os Comme, Sympättiger

auged that wife was c mener

1943-46: Johar was Chie, Ruasia

Biticai seccon, us trility title

gence

1947-1955: Carrge totitute paca.

1955: Unversity f Pilotings

1966-67: researchin US5R, Poland,

yet, go under Dept. State sponsor.

ships

12 nor 1953: disapproved for any bac

Man 196); was of irrent to des tue

should he approacted litt extreme

cautior ard nor te exposed. to ci

#39 Phone, U.

(gosso. u.).

so record

Persora por. prata 5A

-SECRET

---

## Page 29

SECRET

11110790

#40 DzheRob R.

Perisora vor grata

(Jacob, R.).

Rectaná C. gacot #201 610 was torr

24 2ay 1936 in altogra, Pa.

CiA Enoroge frai 1960-69

He was pinis. eas a result the Perfor.

shy case Clearesce was issued for him

i use as a soner-assessor in

race rant e now a stace broker

in new your cing

SEGRET

RIF

---

## Page 30

SECRET

ILE KEVIEN

4/17/78

AU NE MOSBY

11110791

05

THIRD AGENA MATERIALS

O FBI MEMO DTD 4 NOU 1964 RE SAMMY-ESPIONAGE-

RUSSIA

DEPT. STATE MEMO OTO 8 AUG 1967 RE CONERSATION

Wl. ALINE MOGBY

(3

FBI RET DID 4 AUG 1964 RE ISAAC HENRY SHAPIRO,

LUDMILA SHAPIDO

4 EXTRACT FROM FOR, SVEG DISPATCH $392 EROM

AEMB MOSCON TO WASH DÃO 12 DEL 1960, SUBU:

WESTERN CORRESP.'S IN MOSCON

(5) EXTRACE FROM BI DTO SEPT. 1958

2, 7, 10,23,30 OCT. 1958

SEGRET

---

## Page 31

SEGRET

114707

4117/78

11110792

МОзВИ, ALlINE

MISS

T

NRECOGNIZED NAME AS CORRESPONDENT UND WAS

LOUROMISED - NEWS ARTICLE, EVEN PNOTO - DONE 54

DIRECTORATE II, DEPT 10, SEGION WORKING ON ALL

CORRESPONDENTS; N HEARO QUE SNE WAS LOMPROMISED

DID NOT COUROMISE HERSELF - KGB RAN OPI

MA: ACCREDITED FOR NIXON USGRTRIP. JULY-AUO 59

STAMP "RECORDS OS/5RS MAY OR MAY NOT

CONTAN ADDITIONAL INFERNATION.

BRUCEL, SOUE."

-SEGRET

---

## Page 32

-SECREF

4/17/78

os

11110793

MOSBY, ALINE

OR 72

€402610-C

/D MEM. 03 APR 72 SHAPIRO, HENRY

IN MOSBY, ALINI

OR E412610-C

/ A MOSBY EILEEN

/D FBI. 04 AUG 68 PL SHAPIRO, ISAAC H

-SECRET

---

## Page 33

-SECRET

MOSBY

4/17/78

0.5

11110:94

MENO

PO: ACTINO CHiEF, FIOB/ SEC. RESEARCH STAFF I MARI

"FROM: E MENDOZA

SUBJ: ALINE MOSSY

#172 252 C

A -119

BACKGRaND

BORN 27 NiT 1922 AT MISSOULA MONTANA

B.A, DEGREE FRON UNIN. MONTANA 1943

ExPOTES UPI IN 1943 IN SEATTLE OFFICE

TRANSFERRED TO IVOLLYWDOD

• ALLEGEDLY: FIRED BY UDI FOR LENING INFO TO

"CONFIDENTIAL" MAGAZINE

BECAME ADFILIATED WITH NANA. DRINE

19505 AND IN 1958 was. KNO TO BE

RESDING IN BRUSSELS

SLBSEDUENTLY RENIREO BI UPI: MUSED 1958-

1961 ON STADE OU IENRY SHAPIRO!

SINCE 14LI WORKED IN BONN.

RETURN TRIP

TO MOSCOW DURING 1964

NUTATION: (HANDURITTEN

27 SET 73

CURRENT INTEREÇT CLOSES

BRUCE SOLI

-SECRET

---

## Page 34

-SECRET

11110795

AGENCY INTEREST

• NO CLEARANCE REPUÉSTS....

• COVERS INNOSTI

CATION WES CONDUCTED IN 1958 AT REPUEST OF

SRDIVISION

-SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

4/13/28

O Su

11110796

31 NUR 64

TP. CHIEF, RESEARCH BRANCIN/ SRS

FROM: M.D. STEVONS

SUBS : UNO CASE

(ADDRESS BOOK)

PAGE 15: 6 ADDRESS BOOK

20575. 51427 Pou.

MINSK

HOUSE NO:4, APT.24

UL. KALININA

NOTATION: USWALD'S RET.

AND ON LTRTO JOHN

TOWER, SEN, - TEXAS 1962

E. MENDOZA

NAME ALSO APPEARS AS "COMRADE SENEAPON 20525

OU STRiP OF PAPER IN OSMASS WALLET UNEN 'UTER

VIEWED BY MARTELLO.

SECRET

:: SECURITY INDICES

ULT. COL. NIKOLAI GEORGYEVICH SINARAPON

RIS: CAREER DFFILER:.. DUDTME, CHEKIGT WI

INTERROCATION EXP

1942 CHIEF OF SUALL COUNTER-ESP SECTU

IN SECOND DIZ. OF NKVD

1942 FiELD RANK DE CAPT. AND AS OF SOME

TIME AFTER FEB 1951 WAS CHISE OF A SECTION

IN SEVENTH CHIEF DIRECTORATE MUD

AS A SON ABOUT USMAD'S AGE

... CIA INFORUATION RET 21 FES 1955 TITLES

"ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIOUS AND PERSONALITIES OF

THE INKGB WAS LISTED AS TNE SUB-SECTIOIN

---

## Page 36

SECRET-

11110797

CHISE OF TRE SURVEILLANCE SECTION (NN) OF

TNE INDEPENDENE SECTIONS OF TME NKGB (X

DIRECTORTE?)

(2) E4 BELITSKIT IDENTIFIED P.I. SHARAPON

AS ONE THE DIRECTOR UF ALL RUSSIAN TEXTILE

SINDICATE IN NEN PURE CITY; STINDICATE LAS

CONTROLLTO DI SQUISI COUT

(3) UT. GEN: ANDREI RODIONOVICN SHARAFON UF

SOVIET MILITARY STARE COMITTEE AT UNITED

NATIONS HAS INGOLLES IN SO. ESPIONGE CIRO

PROVIDED TO FBI IN 1948)

TOOK OVER DUTIES E NEND OD IST DEPT OF SOU.

INTELLiGENCE NU US BEFORE JUNE 1948

SEGRET

---

## Page 37

1918

SEGRET

11110793

PHONE NUMBERS AS OF ..

8/15/60

72- 66-81

72-43-04

UN MOSBY NOTETO ALEX PARKER)

MOSBY INDICEL

DOLBERG, ALEX

SMITH, FITZGERALD.

WINTERS, GEORGE PE UR:

BELITSKY, BORIS

SITAPIRO, HENRY

6/22/59

19/14/60

9/5/58

8/4/64

INTERVIEW ZZiOU 62 W/ GERGE WINTERS

a.0.. 1

SUBJECT (HINTERS) STATED TIRAT ANOTIVER NENERVER

NOMAN IN MOSCON MA PRISCILLA VOMINSON •

OTTION; VOLUNGON ALGO CANE IN CONTKI WITH

---

## Page 38

-SECRET

11110:93

ANACHEUT

SUBI: BELITSKIY, BORIS YEFIMOVICE # 175069- 550

MOSBY, ALINE #172252

ACCORDNE TO GENERAL SORLES BORIS 4. BELITSKIM

TIS AN ASSOCIATE OF ALINE MOSBA, LINOSE NALE

APPEARES IN USWALD'S. ADDRESS BOOK.

1. PRISCILLA JONNGON, 1 0L, SNS HAS BEEN

MENTIONES IN NENSPAPER ARTICISS 1S ONE UTO

RECUL NAVING COUSIN CONCACT LITTA LEE

LARVE OSMO IN MOSCOU, UNERE SNE INTER-

VIENGO (OR TALKEO) WITH NM. NER NAME, LIKE

INER LAST NAME ONET.

SEGREE

---

## Page 39

6/30/78

-CONFIDENTIAL

ANGLETON

OFFICE OF SECURITI

11110575

MERO 1 JULY. 1975

FOR:

... INSPELTUR GEN'L

SOBS: POSSIBLE QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITY

.....

2. BACKEROUD:.. ON 27 JUNE JIM ANGLETON TELE

PHONED WALT ELDER. DAVE AARON OF THE 55C

StAFF tD UNCOrERED A STAfF AGENT IN NEw

YORk Wo IND BEEN AN AGENCy MAFIA PENE-

MADE

TRATION WHICH ANGLETON GAID RADBERNAN

¡aU THE AUTHULIZATION DE AMI GEN'L RUST

NGER

F KENNEDY IN 1963. THE AGENT HAD TRIED TO

CONTACT HIS. CAGE DFFICER BUT WAS UNSUCCESÁ-

HUL. AND SO HAD INSTED CONTACTED ANGLETON.

3. 1 DISCUSGED THE MATTER WITH JONIN GREANÉ

IN SUMMA, HE TOUD ME THIt THE AGENT,

HACT WITH HERBERT ITKIN UNO HAS INFO

ABOUT LINKS BETUY THE CHICAGO TEAMSTER UNIDN

AND THE MEIM BROD REPD THIS TO NIS CAE

OFFICER, AND IN A FEW DAS THE DDO (HEVIS)

DISCUASED THE MITTER WI REK BECAUSE Of

KENNEDY'S REQUIREMENTS FOR INFO ON NOFFA

AND W/ SAM PAPICH OF THE FBI

BeO JWAS TO POMIDENTAIN

AS AN FBI

---

## Page 40

-CONFIDENTIAL

11110577

SOURCE AND TORN HIM OVER TO THEM, ClA COULS

NOT TURN DEfERODITO THE FELLBUCAUSE NE

LAS A LONG TIME AGENT (RECRUITED iN ITALI

AU 7944 B7 LANES ANGLETON CUNO AND OPERA-

TOMAL INVOLEMENTS FOR US IN MAITI AND

OTHER PLACES IN MSe 1943 BeOS TORNED

TKIN OVER TO THE ISI BUT UNEURTUNATELY

KEPT A STRING AN HIM. ITKIN WAS A KNOUN

PROBLEM AND FROM TIME TO TIME LOUnD RETURA

TO BROD FOR ADVISE AND 50 FURTH, ROCCA (CI)

HAS PREPARED A FULL BOK AU THE ITKIN!

BHOD CAGE BUT THE ONLY

ACE MENTONES

IN PSEUDO .

9 JUNE 1975. TIME ARTICLE NAMES

CERTAIN MAFIDSO IN CONECTION LU! CIA

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 41

_CONFIDENTIAL

11110573

A:

ANGLETON

OFFICE SE SECURITY

TELETYPE NOr 1974

EM FRIS LONDON

TO RUDIE/AMEMB LUNDON)

ANGLETON INTERVIEW / LONDON DOMESTIC T.V.

WELL, I CAN SAY THAT MAL COVERGE INS

VERSESFUL ON SWALD

CORRi

WHAT DO YOU MEAN GUCCESGFUL

WelL, SUCcEEFUL IN THE SENSE TEAT WheN WE

APPEARED AS THE ASGASSIN SE THE FRES: AND

WHEN I WeN BACk iN thE FlELDS TheRE wAs

CORRESPONDENCE FROM MOSCOW THAT GALE

AN INSIGHT THAT NO ACES COULD POSSIBLY

He GiveN to thE MAN

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 42

SECRET

GEO. DE MO RENSENILDT

OFFICE OF SECURITY

11110573

MEO 14/30/94.34. JERRT G. BROWN, SAE

LET DALLAS AFTER 19 ARR 1963 FOR A TRIP

TO N.4., PHILA. AND HASH. DE, THEN TRAVELING

TO WAIT

No INFO IN TESTIMONY ON WWOL, THEY tHO

CONACT. W, I UHAt THEY WERE DOING 19 APR-

LATE MAl 1963

ON APR Z9 1963 GALE ALLEN, DUS CAGE SEFIER

ID REpESTE AN EXPEDITE CHECK ON BEM

"EXACT REASON UNKNOLN"

It is INTERESTING To ALLEN INTEREST IN DEM

COINDED. L THE EARLIER PORTION OF THIS

QUENt DEN WERE POSSIBLY IN TRUE FAME

EVIRONMENT IN WAN DE CIREA IN 1463

MENO 8 APR 1964

STORAL]. CIA CABLE IN 65452(FROM.]

DATED 20 NOr 1463 RELATING TO

OLWALD.

MATTER CONTAINS INFO REGARDINSO

ONE E. TORRES (PROSASLY EDELBERTO TORRES OF

MEXICO LITT

TORRES ALSO MENTIONED IN CABLE IN 68376

-SECRET

---

## Page 43

SECRET

11110580

FROM MEXICO CREATED 2U ION 1962

HiWARNER KLOEPFER:

WAS OF INTEREST TO 00/C EDOMESTIC CON-

TACTS SERVICE] DURINO SEPT 1963, APPARENTIY

IN RELATION TO USI LOPE, SCIENT. INTELL] RE-

QUIRENENTS

MEMO. 1/7/44

MAJOR BISNOP 119 E. 79 ST NYC

GIVEN AS REFERENCE BY GEO DEM

-SECRET

---

## Page 44

CONFIDENTIAL

EPSTEIN

1111058:

OFFICE OF SECURTY

HEMO

26.SE9T 1977

FOR: DEP. DIR. SECURITY

FRON:. BRUCE SOLIE

CHIEF, SECURITY ANLIGIS GROUP

GORDON STELAET, FORUEE DIR, DF PERSONLEL AND

INGPECTOR GENERU (RET. 1991) WAS 1.G. IN

EARLY 1968

SELECTES BY DEI TO ACT. IU.

A MIDOLE-MAN

CURACITY IN CONTROVERSY OVER NOSENKO CASE

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 45

SEGRETE

IRVINE DAVIDSON

OFFICE E SECURITY

11110582

1/19/21 PITTABURCH, PA

CONFIDENTIAL MENO APRIL 11, 1977

RECORDS OF SPERATIOWAL LiAISON OFFICE, ODO

DISCLOSES NO DOO RELA-

TONGHIS I DAVIDSON

RECORDS... OF CIA SEE OF SEL CERVAN KUHUKE)

NOTE INFORUN CONTACT UF ClANE BY DAVIDSON

PRIOR TO JULY 16,1971...

JULT 1971

A REP OF GEN'L COUNSEL CIA ADHSED

Me. HENRY PETERSON, CHIEF, CRIM. DIV., DEPT.

JUSTICE THE DANDSON HAD FURNISHED SOME

INFO TO tA BUT THAT IT WAS INGUFFICIENT

INTEREST TO IVARRANT CIA INTERFERENCE WI

PROS OF DAVIDSON.

MBNO 12 APR 71

FOR: GEN'I COMEL

SUBS: IGORE IRUNO DANOSON

... A REMEN OF SUBU'S 201, SECURITY ANO

FILE

DOES NUT

LEFLECT ANM USE OF SUBS

BY THIS AGENCY

SECRET

---

## Page 46

SEGRET

11110583

AT ANY TME

MENO.16 JULY.19%1

BY JOHNS, ORGANY, ANGE GEN'L COUNSEL

FOLLOMING RECOROS TELE COMERSATION WI

MR: HOURY POTERSIN, CRIM DIU., DEPT JUSTICE

OU 13 JUL.. DAMIDSON IS DEFENDANT IN A

MAIL FRAUD AND BANKRUPTEY CASE IN DIST.

LT. IN CALIF. DAVIDSON HAS BEEN A FRONT

INOLEO I THE WEST COAST TESTERS,

HEROES BY BEVERL RIDGE.

CHARGE OF CONCEALINE ASSETS UF INTERSTATE

EXCAVATION COMPAN

..

3. WITH IN THE LAST TEN DAYS, A FLIRY Of

RUMORS OF PRESSURE BEINE BROWENT TO BEAR

INFLENGE ON THE JUST. DEFT HAVE DEVELOPED.

a. MEna spon HELMS tO ATTY GEN MITChELL

b. MeMo FRoM NELMS TO DEP. ATTy GEN kLEN

DENIST

C. MEMO FROM ASS AG MARDIAN, 'TERNA

SEL AUTO ASST ATTY GEN WILSON

d. LETTER TO MURRAY COTINER FROM MOR

GEN TARIN, CHIEF ISRAEL MILI. INTEL.

SEGRET

---

## Page 47

SECRET

11110584

28 A9R 1971

4. As HES AWARE, DAVIDSON "S DECASIONEL

ODENVA JINFORMAT. NO ME TUS MAY BE

"WILLING COOPERATE WATWODISHTE NOT

(коmіce.]

WasH POsT 9/29/64

CHARLES MADE TRIP TO US CITIES, INCLUDINE

DALLAS IN EARL RIGY TO BUY BOATS AND OTHER

MEMO 25. AR 1962

UGNALT RELIABLE SORCE REP'D THAT ON

30 Ma 195?

WHENSOR ANTES INFO AT"ALES

ANY PRICE FOR INFO ON GUATEMALAN, NICARE.

QUAN AND COSTA RIGAN ExILE KIIVITY IN

MEXICO FOR SUBMISION TO PRES. SOMOZA UF

NICARAGUA

DAVIDSON LAD NE REPRES DIRECTLYTO UNITE

HOst THRU FRANK BERRY of ElLENHOWER'S

STAFE CONCERNNO 'CENTRAL AMER. ACTIVITIES.

DAVIDION WAS ACCOMBANIGO TO MEXICO BY

WD. FELDERIII. OF WID. FELOERT. CO., COTTON

MERENANTS OF DALLAS

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SECRET

1:00 pe

11110585

asinur by for du at time p 62

contaci

5B was response for deal

tending.

disn't rensber

Nease was cow prianty kraus g

interest in developing over areas

for did not tave fin acres 8 6

materal

participal

not aware what different the

were

No if can't clangy tereap ino

rew upo

-SECRET

---

## Page 49

SEGRET

11110588

haros ap 64 pressics 3, sor Di

toresolve caused decisis moa

world resore i

i important a resolve

ClA in perioi was particulary dair

Iy did vot fare pertre tion proble

I went of To forman is fire b

to vine curo statio

crew oN was promoted ay door

leftgure 68

wrap tysk up no corelion

solve report

---

## Page 50

11110587

SECRET

I may ery tave crapsulete

a was coordinatin

poure fo au

igo to wet FBt

or swali.

sovier unior.

enor

spoic may tave dore went up

Kostpor a solut

SEGRET

---

## Page 51

ELGRET

IRVING DAVIDSON

11110583

OfFICE SE SEURITY

se.

MENO

7 JAN 1964

FROM: ROBT GUTTSCHLING

CONF. INFERUANT RECENTLY ADVISED THAT

RES. OF HAITI DURING LAST WEER OF DEC. 1963

SENT LONE MESSAGE TO SUBU [DArIOSONI

CONTENTS UT KNOWN

DOL

NEWS CLIP

most: 904T9/29864 B4 NYCL

HIT AN PRES. DUVALIER REL'D PURELSE Of

TWO .T-28 FIGHTER PLANES FROM DELA

FIGNTER PLANES FLOWN TO HAITI ILLEGALL

DAVIDSON VISITED HAITI MAY 1963 4

Two DALLAs ARuS SUppLIERS

DUVALIER MUDE DOWN POMMENT WI LETTER

Of CREDIT FOR $210, 000 DRAWN ON BANQUE

COMMERCIAL OF PORT-AU-PRINCE

PRES. + PRINCIPAL STOCKNOLDER DO BANQUE

IS CLEMENT JOS. CHARLES ... CLOSE DUVALIER:

ALLY

... EARLIEe TWIG TEAR MADE.

-. SNOPPING TRIP

-SECRET

---

## Page 52

SEGRET

11110583

TO US, INCE. DALLAS TO BUY BOTS AND STUER

LEAPONS

9/30/64 TRANSACTION WET TROUGh MEX BALK

STAR

4/1/455

DOMESTICALL", DAVIDSON REPRESENTS TEXÁS CORT.

DUNEs BY MURCHISON "UTERESTS. AUD

FRIENDSHID WUL BOBBII BAGER

DoC

MENO 14/28/59. SECRET

FROM JEN MCCUPD

RE DAVIDSON, IRVING I.

SEE FILE ON DONALD NUGAN A DAKID PULLLIPS

FOR ADDITIONAL PERTiNENT INEO ON DANDSON

- SECRET

---

## Page 53

DOC"

DOC:

DoC:

SECRET

11110590

SILVIA LUDLOW HYDE MOKE

OFFICE OF SELURITY (SURT FILE).

SEE 0SI (ULAF) RPT DID 12/14/56 (#33-3439)

TITLE: GILHA LUDLOW HIDE IOKE

GEE. FBI RPTS 9/17/56-2/6/57)

59.204, 9/7/54

INDEX

HE SM. A.

F31 RIT 21 SEPT 5L

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

SUBS: HORE, GYLUA

7/30/71

IDENTIFIED AS CIA EMPLOTEE IN '61 ISSUE OF

FALLS CHURCH VA. DIR.

BRUCE LI SOLE

DEPUTY CHIEF, SRS

MEMO

4 MAY 6?:

FROU....E. MENDOZA, ERS

SUBS: SILVIA LUDLOW HOKE

DAUCATER OF WMSECREDE 6. 157435

---

## Page 54

DOC:

DOL

-REGRET

1111059:

MOTHER-IN-LAW IS HELEN HOLE RATS,

PARTNER IN NI PUBLISHING FIRM WI DOROTHY

WILSON, AKA DOROTHY WILSON SELIGSON, ARA

MRS. LOU SELIGSON, "DEN. AM MEMBER OF CP

1962-68 WILSON HAD CONTACT WI ISADURE

GIBB1 NEEDLEMAN CONCERINING FINANCIL PAT-

MENTS FARM BERNARO GEIS

MEMO

5 DEC 1963

FROM : CHIEF, RESEARN BRANCH/ OS/SRS

W4. 10108 LONSIDERED FOR LOVERT USE

IN VIETNAM IN 1957. BUT NUT USED

SOLiE

POSSIBILITY TEN UP. AVERY NUDE LAS FATEER

Of RuTh pant wAy pREvIously BrougHT to thE

ATTENTION Of MR. PAPICH THROUGH

4/51G

MEMO TO BRUCE SOLE

21 DEE 1955

FROM TALBOT BIELEFEST

ABS ORR, PAUL, VIOLET AND OTERS

WH. A tiDE let IN WAsH. ThiS LAST wEEk-

END VISITIN JONN I SYLUM WOKE. WOKE IN TED

BIELEFELDT + RICHARD VENINS OVER SINCE

THEY HAD BEEN

FRIENTES

AT STANDARD

- SECRET

---

## Page 55

DOL:

11110592

- SEGRET

MEMO FROI SOLIE 6/15/55

RED THAT FILE BE SET UP ON SILVIA HYDE

HOKE

•SEGRET

---

## Page 56

-SECRET

11110593

RUTH HYDE PAINE

OFFICE Of SEC. (SOAT FILE)

MEiO 255 MAR 604

TO CHLEF EMPOYEE ACTIVITY BRANEN

GUBS. TALGUT BIELEFELDT

GUBI REPORTED ONONE CALL FROM MR, CAROL

AUDE, MOTHER OF PEN PALE; PAINE IN LAGE.

To TESTIfY BEFORE WARREN COUM.

SUBS STATEO HO MIGHT WAIT MRS, NADE BUT

BELIeut hE WILL not visiT Mes. pArIvE

-SECRET

---

## Page 57

CA FILE REVIEN

SECRET

11110594

JOHN LINDSAY HOKE

OFFICE OF SECURITY (SOFT AILE)

DOL:

SEE FBI RPT 9/21/56.

TITLE: SYLVIA LUDLOW HYDE NOKE

FD-204; 5/7/54

REQUEST FUE APPROVAL SE LIAISON / RENEWAL

BAUC 64

TO: CHISE, EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH PSD/OS

SUBJ: RED FS SECUEITY APPROVAL DE MAISON ON A

CONTININE BASIS

AND OTHER GUCH MEMBERS E

ENGINCERINE STAGE DESIGUATES BU HIM

TITLE: COMMUNICATIONS RESOURCES SPECIALIST

AID/ WAGH.DC

SECRET CLARIFICATION

DDC:

REQUEST FUR APPROVAL DE MAISON/ REVENAL

22 AUG 1963

Doc. .

REPEST EUR APPROVAL dE MAISON

21 AUG 1962

- SECRET

---

## Page 58

5/2/78

SEGNET

BIOGRAPHY

11110527

B. 30 OCT 27 IN NIKOLAYEY, UKRAINE

DEFECTED 4. FEB. 'bt

HATHER: IVAN 1SI DOROVICH NOSENKO

PROMINENT SOV. SHIPBUILDING ENG.

BECAME 50V. MINISTER OF SHIPBUILDING IN

MOSCON

ATTENDED NAVAL TRAINING SCHOOLS

ATEND OF WAR: ENTERED INSTITUTE Of INTER-

NATIONAL RELATIONS. IN MOSCON

MARRIED IN: 1917.70 DAUENTER EF 5OV, LT. GEN.

MARRAGE DISSOLED ALTER SALIN'S PURGE

UF FATHER-IN-LAW

1950 JONED 5OV. NAVAL INTELLIGENCE SERNCE

AND SERIED IN FAREAS AND IN BALTIC

EARLY 1953 TRANSFERED TO KGB: ASSIGNED AS

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF AMER. EMB. SEC-

T'ON oF The AMeR. DEp

JUNE 1953 MARRIED DAUGHTER OF FIRST. DEPUTY

CHIeF UF STATE COMM FOR COOR: DE SUIENTIFIC

RESEARCH WORK; WIFE AND CHILDREN LEGT IN

SOV. UNION WHEN HE DEFECTED

JUNE 1955 TRANSFERRED TO TOURIST SECTION dE

SEVENTH DEPT. OF KOB INTERNAL COUNTER-IN-

TELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE

JANES COURUNIST PARTY IN 1957

SEGRET

PLIMARILI INVOLUES IN OPERATIONS DESIONEO

---

## Page 59

SECRET

11110523

TO RECRUT AMER. AND BRITISH COMMON WEALTH

POURISTS

1957, 1958 USED ALIAS TURIT IVANDICH NICOLA-

MEZ: WENT TO LONDON AS SECURITY ESCORT

FOR SOV. SPORTS DELEGATIION

1958. JANED... AMER-BRIT COUMOUNEALTH SECTON

OF SEVENT DEFT, ETE IDENTIEYINE AND RECRUIT

ING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE AGENTS VISITINO

GOV. U. AS TOURISTS; INCL. CI OS INOWING

ENTRAPMENT

PAN. 1960 TRANSFERRED TO AMER. EMB. SECTION OF

THE AMER DERT.; RESPONDIBLE FOR MONITORING

CONTACTS BETW

.. US END PERSONEL AND SQV,

UTS AND FOR CQLLECTINO oF INFD ON AMER.

EMB. PERSONNEL TO FACILITATE RECRUITMENT

MARCH 1962 ACCOMPANIED SOVIET DELEGATION

TO THE DISARUAMENT CONF IN GENEVA AS

SEC ESCORT

JAN 1964 RETURNED TO GENEVA AS SEC ESCORT

FIR SOV. DELE TO DISARUAMENT CONE IN GENEA

-SEGRET

---

## Page 60

FILE

P. 5

SEGIST

11110523

EXAMINATION OF BONA FIDES OF A KOB DEFECT

PE3. 1968

NOTE ON COVER

...CLA FINDS THIS STUDI TO BE INACCURATE

IN MANY IMPORTANT DETAILS AND TO DETAN

THE RESULTS OF FAULTY JUDGMENTS LEADING

TO UNFOUNDED CONCLUSIONS

INTERROGATION PERIODS

12 FEB 1964 ARRIVED IN COASH: D.C.

14 FEB 1964 MET WA REPS OF SWISS AND SOVIET

GOrT.; RENOUNCED USSR CITIZENSHIP

18. PLB

24 FEB

112-26 LiAR

4. APR

INITIAL DEBRIEFING COMPLETED

INTPODUCEO TO FBI FOR DESTONINE

LALII VACATION

PLACED IN PERMANENT SAFENDUSE OUT

SIDE WASH: D.C.; POLYGRAPH BEGUN

24 APR

INTERROGATION. COMPLETED

MAY- NOV.

FRIENOLI INTERROGATION

INTERIM CONSULTATON MY FBI

26 JAN 1965 - 5 MAR HOSTILE INTERROGATION

FEB 1965.

N. EXECUTED PROTOCOLS

HE JULT -14 AUG. FURTHER INTERROGATION

19-25 OCT. 19L6

4A1 1765

13 LEER INTERROGATION BY PSYCHIA -

TRIST

PSYCNO LOGIST

---

## Page 61

P. 20

59

SECRET

11110533

UJ 1966

INNTERROGATION ENDED

SOVIET OFFICIALS CLAIMED N. IS. DEFECTON CAUSED

SEVERE DAMAGE TO KCB, PROMPTED EXPULSION ANO

DISCRICE OF NUMEROUS SENIOR KGB PERSONNEL,

CAUSED RECALL OF PERSONNEL FROM ABRODO,

SUSPENSION OF CERATIONS IN UIS.

DESPITE HIS CLAIMED ACTIVE COMMISSIONED SER-

vicE In ThE nM, N. KNows NotHinG Of sOV.

NAVY TRADTION, DOCTRINE, ORGANIZATION, CR. PRO-

LEDURES, HE DISCLAIMS KNOWLEDGE OF RUR-

CNNIZATION ONER THAN AT THE POGS LiMERE dE

SERVED, "BECAUSE UF HIS JUVIOR RANK" NONEVER,

EVEN AT THOSE POSTS HE DESCRIBES NETHER

The stAff, The fuNeroNs Nor the personneL

NTELLIGIBLY NOR DOES NE DESCRIBE THE POSTS!

ACTUAL LOCATIONS."

milia

---

## Page 62

SEGNET

KasuRor

ropes.

Promilian

mosky

11110532

---

## Page 63

BRAD

SOLUTEL

11110532

FILE NOSENCO INDERROGATIONIGRANSCRIPI

REEL # 1 26 U24 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE

RANSLATION IF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT

P. 17

P INHENCE THOU DID YOU SHOW UP IN CITY OF MOSCOW

AT END OF 1952 ARRIVED IN MOSCON FROM CITI

OF SOVETSK, PRIMORSKIY KRAY (10-15 KILO. FROM

CITY DE BALTINSK, FORMERLY PILLAU - BASE OF

FORTY INVAL FEET DF BALTIC

NAVY INTELLIGENCE POINT IS IN SOVETSK-

WORKEO THERE FOR SEVERAL MOUTNS IN 1952

WENT TO MOSCON TO WORK IN NANT INTELIGENE

AND THEN FIND SOMETHING ELSE

WAS oN QUE MONTH LEAVE WhEN HE LENTTO.

MOSCOW, DID NOT NAVE TO REPOR TO HO

D. DISDUTESTAT T HOLLO BE POSSIBLE TO GO

ON LEAVE NO RECTE WIO REPORTING)

NAILE ON LENE IN MOSCOW "THE BUSINESS

AROSE THAT I HOLD BE TAKEN TO WORKIN

THE MOB MINISTRY OF SATE SECURTY

DESTION OF BEING TRUNSPERREO TO MOB CAME

LO AT KORLOVS DACHA AT ABOUT 11/53, PARENTS

PRESENT

ATER CONTACTIO BY MINISTRA DE STATE SEC

ADOLDO RES

SEGRE

---

## Page 64

57

75

11110533

D ASSERTS THAT PERSON WNO WORKED IN KGB

WOULD RNOU PERFECTLY SETE RULES AND REGULA-

TONS iNSTEAD UF MERELY GUESSING WORT PROCE -

DRES NOUS NAVE BEEN)

ANHOT REMEMBER NAME OF FERSONNEL QUESTIONARE

("ANKETA") THAT NEFILLED OUT

AT BEGINNING OF APRIL MET WI GORBATENKO

DE FIRST DEPT., FIRST SECTION AS CASE OFFiCER

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AGAINST AMERICAN EUB.

---

## Page 65

BRIDY

4/26/78

- SEGRET

1111053-4

FILE: NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSCRIPT

P. 1 - 4

5

9

REEL # 2: 26 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COUPLEE TRANSCA-

TaN OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT

P. QUESTIONS FACT THAT N. DID NOT ENDU A SECONE

SAUCHENKO WHO MUS LT. GENERAL IU KGB

NOSENKO'S CHIEFS:. FEDOTOV, SHUBNYAKON, GRIBAIVOV

NOSELLO STATES NE REC'O PAY IF 1700 RUBLES PLUS

500 FOR RANK

D. CLAIMS NO PAY WAS GIVEN FOR RANK AT TiME

N. BEGAN IN MAR. 1953

27

28

42

NO. SERVED. AS. INTERPRETER-TRANSLATOR OF INTELLIGENCE

DE THE SEVENT NAVAL FLEET IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN

ATERWARDS WORKED IN BALTIC IN 1957 AS SENIOR

INTERPRETER TRANSLATOR OF THE MAS, MRP OF IN-

ELLIGENCE OF THE FOURTH MALAL FLEET IN TNE BALTIC

CAUNDT TELL MAIN SAFE A de SURVEILLANCE

BASE OF IST DEOT: FOR 1953-55

No NAMES SAFE APTS DE SURVEILANCE Of THE

SECONO CHIEF DIRECTORATE

VOSSTANITE SQUARE

AREA OF KROPOTKINSKAYA BRIDGE S

---

## Page 66

11110537

---

## Page 67

Đ P

COLCHET-

11110537

FILE

PER REDUEST FROM PAUL KART -

MAN"

2/5/74

OZGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS:

DOP DIRECTURATE

SOVIET BLOT

BIOGRAPHIC.DAT

MAY 1944 TRANSPERRED TO GUKR/MGE MOSCOW

AND COMPLETED COURSE AT HIGHER COUNTER-IN-

TELLIGENCE SAT0OOL IN MAY 1945

MAY 1945 TRAUSFERRED TO COUNTER-INTELLI-

GENCE DIRECTORATE FOR MANY, SERVING AS ITS

KOMSOMOL SECRETARY

MiM 1946 TRENSPERRED BACK TO NOME AREA Wi

MGB

APRIL 1947- NUNE 1951 ASSIGNED TO CHIEF

DIRECTORITE OF THE GOT. GUARO, PROMOTED TO

MAJOR IN 1949

JUNE 1951 - DEFECTION 1954 MGB OPERUTIOINS

OFFICER. A MOSCOW NOT ABROAD

*MENO IN LIEU OF HITNESS REPORT 26 SEPT 1973

HAS PREPAREO MAVOR ANALYSES ON TWO PERSONS

WHO APPEAR TO HAVE BEEN SOVIE PENETRAT QUS...

101 PAGES, 425 PAGES - SEGRET

---

## Page 68

-SEORET

11110536

FILE, NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSURIPT

REEL # 3: 28 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE TRANSL

STON OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIFT

P. 3

asIN k04sanO4 1943-1954

lo

AT END OF 1953 ELECTED SEC, UF PARTY ORGANIZATION

OF SECOND CHIEF DIRECTORATE

23

255

RE: NOW HE BECAME SECRETARY DE KOMSOMOL ORG,

DOES NOT REMEMBER KOMSOMOL COMM. REP.

DOES NOT REMEMBER HOW KOMSOMOL ELECTIONS

ARE CARRIED DUT

32

DUES: NUT REMEMBER NUMBER OF KOMSOMOL IDENTI-

FICATION

---

## Page 69

SERRET

11110533

DERYABIN

INTERROGATED NOSENKO DURING 26 JULY - 13 AUG

1965

27 Nor 1963

MEMO FOR: CHIEF SRICI

SUBJ: PETER DERYABIN COMMENTS ON PRES.

KENNEDI'S ASSASSINATION

BENEFITS TO KRUSCHEN OF JE'S DEATH

1. LESS WESTERN PRESSURE ON KRUSENEY; CONCILI-

ATORY US ATTITUDE

2. DIVERSION FOR INTERNAL SQUIET PROSS

(PROBS OF 1963 HARVEST, CHICON ARGUMENTS)

3. BECAUSE OF CASTRO ALLEGATIONS, JONNSON

WOULD RESTRAIN PROM ANY PLANNED INTERENTION

IN... CUBA.

4. KRUSCHE'S TO HOLLO BE STRENOTNENED

IN DEALING WITH CHICOMS

5. ANy PlANs BY Jfk to Get touGh wth

SOVIETS DRING ELECTION YEAR WOULD TAUS BE

SABOTAGED

6. DE CAULE WOULD EMERGE AS STRONE

WESTERN LEADER; HE WAS SUPpORTiVE Of SONIES

7. RISING INTELLECTUAL DISGENGION IN U5SR.

WOULD BE TRUARTED

8. THE ASSASSILTTON MOULD PIT RIGHT AND

---

## Page 70

SEGRET

11110533

LEFT IN USA AGAINST EACH OTNER

9. JEE'S MURDER, WHETHER PLANNED OR NOT,

Wile PROVE POWER ANO OMNISCIENCE OF KUB

...THE SOVIET INTELLIGENCE SERUCES IVE SUF-

FERED SOME VERy REAL REvERSES RECENTLy

WTH PENKONSKY, GOLITSIN'S DEFECTION, THEIR

IGNOMINIOUS EXPULSION FROM TRE CONCO, ETC.

¡Have Long pREDIctEd ThAt the Usse wOnd

TAkE SOME DRASTIC. ACTION TO MALE THE RIPO

EROSION OF THEIR SECUerT,

RAISES POSSIRUTY THAT OSWALD WAS "NITES"

TO MOSCOW OR 'INSPIRES" TO TRAVEL TO USER

AND GIVEN ADVICE OR FINANCIAL ASGISTANCE

FEAT FEE

DES NEVER GIVE A VISA WHOUT

MAKING AN INESTIGATION DE THE PERCIN MARINE

HE APPLICATION

WAs THe PERSON WO CAME DUALD TEE VISA

A KGB AGENT OR EMPLOYEE

IN MOSCON OSUALS HOLLO. HAVE BEEN UNDER

OBSERVATION, IMESTIGATION AND "COMPLETE

COUTROL. MY KGB; WOULD HE GOTTEN ALL

POSSIBLE INFO FROM HIM, ESPECIALLY ABOUT

SERVICE IN, MNLINE CORPS

---

## Page 71

SEGRET

11110540

AM FOREIGNER, ESPECIALLY IN AMERICA LO

BE UNDER CONSTANT EBSERVATION ANO STUDI

FiR POSSIBLE FUTURE USE BY SOU. INTELL. AND

C.1. SERVICES

BELENES SOUIETS MOLD MALE CONDUCTES INVEST.

GATION U D. TEROUGH SOU. AGENT NETWORKS

+PROCOMMUNIGT ORGS. W/IN USA

THAT INITIAL REFUGAL TO MAGE NIM A SQUIET

CHIZEN WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR PROSE OF

FURTHER STUDI AND IN:

TREDRY

AFTER D. AGLED TO RETURN TO UIS.. WAS ASKED

To FIGHT FOR COMMUNIST CAUSE WIN THE CEA

ThAT STATE SECURITY MeNdO d dANOLINO

POREIGUERS WOULD BE TO MAKE MARINA AN

AGENT

1E MRINA WERE NOT INITED TO DEFICIAL SOUIET

OFFICES IN AN ATTEMT TO TALK NER OUT OF

THE MARRIAGE, TET WOULO INDICATE IT WAS

ARRANGED BU KGB.

IF MARIAGE AND PAPERWORK WERE ARRANGES

AFTER OUT FEW MONTHS WAIT, WOULD iNDICATE

TIMO BEEN HANDLED B4 KGB

---

## Page 72

1111054

JAMES NERBERT NURTIN

OFFICE OF SECURITY

"SOFT EILE" = MATERALS FROM, INDEX; DIS NOT

HAVE ACTUN DE ON HIM

23 1AT1968

MENO FOR: CHIEF, CIARTA

SUBJ: MARPIN, JAMES HERBERT

PER YOUR REDUEST DE 10 MAY 1968 fOR A

SEARCH OF OS INDICES ON ONE LAMES NERBERT

AVAILABLE Q SUBU IN OS RECORDS

PaUL F. GATNoR

CHIEF, SEC. RESEAREN STAFF/OS

COULD MT BE. IDENTIFIED WI ANT QUE DE

THE CALE NAME UNO APPERS IN OS INDICES

.... COPI DE NEUSPiDER CLIPPING... WASHINGION

POST FER 26 FES 1964.... DULY INEO ANALABLE

IN 0S RECORDS UN SUB .

WASHINGTON POST ARTICLE:

WIFES AGENT DENIES OSWALD PLOT ON NIXON

-SECRET

---

## Page 73

SURELL BRiDY

SEGRET

11110542

MURRET, MARILYN DOROTHY

201-761575

D.O.B. 14 JuL 28

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1963-1965

DELETIONS: FBI REPORT, 1964

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REDUEST

TUBE STA: : DUN 6

DATE 17 SEPT 1964

SOURCE DOC. : FBI REPORE 7 MAY 1964

COUNTRY dE LOCATION: PAKISTAN

ACTION DESE: 5I/SI6 CODE 731

COMMENTS: LISTED AS ONE DF THE "MOST WANTED"

DEFECTORS IN THE ALLEN-SCOTT REPORE

MAR. 26,1964

DOC. TRANSFER A CROSS REF.

PERTINENT INFO

9 DEC 63: FBI NO. WAS CONTACTED RELATIVE

TO ThEIR INFERVIEW WA SUBU, COUSIN DE LEE

HARVEY OSWALD, AND SHE DENIED HAVING. SEEN

OSWALD AT ANY TME OUTSIDE THE U.S.

DOC: TRAUSEER+ CROSS REF.

SUBU ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL DEFECTOR

11 F5B 65

201-761577

100-002-077

- SEGRET

R 6507141156

---

## Page 74

SRELL BRADY

3/7/78

SECRET

SHIRAKOVA, RIMA

201-803914

11110543

NEE LMITRYUK - MARRIED NAME

HUSBAND.. VALERIY ZMARYUK.. 3. 2909,1937;

ENGINEERING STUDENT

DEPT. OF STATE, BUREAU UF INTELL. I RESEARCH

TO DEP. DIR. PLANS, CIA

(DATE NOT LEGIBLE)

ATTRI: MR. CALVIN TENNET:

SUBI.: ZMITROOK, RIMA--LEE HARLEY OSUALD'S

INTOURIST GUIDE IN MOSCOW

"ALTHOUGH COMPLETE FILES AT OUR OFFICE OF

SPECIAL CONSULAR SERVICES NO LONGER ARE

AVAILABLE ON PERSONS WINO MIGHT TALE SOUGHT

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT EMBASSY MOSCOW

BETLUEEN: 1958. AND 1963..

DISPATCH

15 AUG: 1946

AFTER BIRF OF HER DAUGHTER IN DCT.: 1963

SHIRAKONA LET INTOURIST AND WAS EMPLOYED AGA

TEACHER of ENGUSH, IN A MOSCOW TEACHER'S

TRAINING COLLEGE

BORN: 19 JAN 1939

DATE OF MARRIAGE: 1943

SEGR

---

## Page 75

OL GRET

HA Bue

11110547

oasis for apering 201 fice

operational interest i interdial

model, foreigners): potentiai recruit.

would trace files in the fuele or sypter

for ay ifo or. the persor

racking ar indiendinal: eis foreign

speciärise, cousteristligene

sometive wher there are seccal files or

a persor it is none corerent to

put it al is ore frie = 201

racing- russing that all cariate

y persois name, computer prist-du

casi orcar could intiate 201 file; tes

moraly root, prowedgeable

ypo: relate tip sas persor is di.

closing mitar, secrets.

ans grogners call as to whether

201 fire i opered; but the po

wal be passe or conting,

erry a 2

he is nor spered

---

## Page 76

SECRET

11110595

artie 20, criteria

rei

witness

high luce foreigs officer

Here are writer nutations gover?

if tise citeria

some operations are nur pros 49, are

soc the feld, to the HD officer would

initiate de La file

ARQ I: biograptical upo

II: bio data, asssanent, purveillance

results (may be filed afor corac

io/ the ipiurdial)

they would be located in 201 fice;

soretives II is not rade, so it

war't recessarily be included tol

Tere dial filing pudonym. o

cryptoryn we not be fild up name

fice; PRAII wis usually use crypto.

nym, to tky would he stored entere

ou can rict indey check to locate ale

juis, os angeral file standa rejer

to our fire SEGET

---

## Page 77

SEGRET

11110546

stacurofeet in 20l fue strid te neur

taired to reference offer fire

201 fice i brogiaptical, nox operational

coratorator)

uce writing coladorator

pacecial witting collaborator

forner widing colarator

potential/ never contacted

(classes 41 - 47)

Here is table p cortists tie to file

ase for that: computer wie oper

out other file reference aroace

material unes tas beer classi.

fied no that file

ver war ipo - competid thoug

communications iraligence (no

longer stir was to be Repe

separately)

K chice - special chanarce

SECRETE

---

## Page 78

SEGRET -

113105-2

geration PCS Would airtair

file to condirare cas involvement

voucher oyster

see precion fteraice.

prescribed thirted (PIL) - Commerica-

tois itch are compartmented (e.5.

sealed envelies).

"PIL traffic charre is determinis

by top three DOU Staff

that info may be dows gaded butse.

querty.

destruction does is prescribes dy

archives, materials are not de

strayed die to rature f the oper

cor

Soviets woe paraciel system

dual stelesce ties no crass

referee betier the turo

peony may be used for associate

es family menters but that doe

not recisia

i mean a 201 que

---

## Page 79

-SECRET

11110543

would exist for each of ther

defection panecar soldier may be

predity ritary nater

201 fue would not be gend wres

Here was operato ai rares

I staff did fave rave in

difector ir 40's

→ El did at de tire maintain

aparate fier on thin intere

ar effort is being made now to

integrate tose jice.it to spen

547 A jour= request to put documen

isto central file

very sensitive operations have very

tinted access; persor tarding

would rase decior where to

7

put documents into syrin

it is possible trat 201 file would not

reficie a particiar operatior

cryptonym may exist for prayed, fo

Unis no 201 would chat

operation file are separately

nai

scared. yet in crage

---

## Page 80

SECRET

11110543

iras sourcis fero iro ter orgare

are there cry files in the field that

are nor also raistarred at 4Q

are there or renest wheresue

is other type of file

- SEGILLE

---

## Page 81

ClA

11110550

-SECRET

operatione fies car nonal be

usposed ff after 10 years; taura

files are raistaired 50 years

it is possible that after ar

operacions file is destroyed the

'dividiat's name file say not

reper. to or declose the operation

ofeig Personnel files are maintavia

separate for 201 files

-SOMET

---

## Page 82

ALE.

DEGRET

11110751

ALE MITERIA FEED FROM AMBAGSADOR DOBRYNIN

PELTING TO OSUALS (SOV. GOUT. DOES) 1964

MEMO FORD LEE RANKIN

UBIS DOES ON ONALD FURNISINEO BY SON. GOT

BLIT

CATHE INCLUSION OF MARINA'S VISA AFPLICATION

" SINGUiAR IN VIEN OF FACT THAT COLM. AND

DUS PEGLESTED ICED ON MORiNA MOREOER, THE

DOC PURPORTINO TO BE AN APPUICATION FOR AN

EXIT VICA LEONI QUALiFIES AS SUCH. WE

KUOU FROM TRE CAGES IF OTHER SON, CITIZENS

TRUT SUEN PERSONS ARE RED'S TO PROVIDE

CONGIDERIBLI MORE INFO THAN LUIS REFLECTED

~ MARINA'S APPLICATION"

. MOREDER, IN INTER-

NEWS MARINA REFERRED TO HAVING FILLED OUT

TE SECEUNRY FORMS AND O NUTED IN N'5.

PIART TENTLABUT 2O DOLS WERE NEC TO

BAN AN EXTE VISA.

RICHARD NEMS

DDP

IS BINSRIDIT TO WORK IN RIDO FACTORY

SAID TUNE SCENE IN ViS. MARINE

SERVED TO, MRAN AND THE PHILiPPINES

A ENDED ILITARY SENOOLS CONCERNED

VITE ELICIONIES, SUeNCO AS RADAR OPERA-

SECRETION UNIT

---

## Page 83

SEGRET

11110755

•SEGRET

---

## Page 84

BEGRET

11410756

DEPRINT MASONIS

TRANSLATIONS MATERNIL RECIO FROM SOV.

EUB. WASH DIE RELATIVE TO EMB. FILE ON

MARINA'S APPLICATION TO REGISTER RESIDENCE

PERMiT CLAST PLACE OF RES. IN USSE:

SIT OF MINSK, UL: KOMMUNISTICHESKAYA,

Lo CONTEe TO RUSSIAN EUB., 50SH,D.C.

ASKS FOR INFO ON NOL TO SUBSCRIBETO

PROVA OR LAVESTIA RUSSIAN LANGUAGE

NELUSPAPERS ER SOME OTNER RUSSIAN LAN-

GUAGE MAGAZINES SUCH AS IGONYOK"

I naus uKE FOR THe EMBASS tO SEND US ANY

PERIODICALS OR BULLETING LUNCH MAN PUT OUT

FOR THE BENEFIT OF YOUR CITIZENS LIVING, FOR

A TIME, IN THE USA

---

## Page 85

ILLEGIBLE NAMES :

11110757

-SECRET

UDOC. WYO EXAMINED INO FOR FACTORY WORK

11160

TRAVER AT FACTORY 1/1/60

@APPLICATION FOR ISSUENCE DE ALIEN IDENTITY CARO,

INSPECTOR WHO REC'D APP A VERIFIED DOES 1/4/62

APPLICATION FOR IDENTITY CARD FOR PERSON WO

CITIZENSIIP 14/61, INSPECTOR UNO REC'O

APPUCATIQU + VERIFIED DOCS

" APRUCATION FOR VIGA FUR DEPARTURE: FROM USER (LND)

1/16/61, EMPUTEE UNO REGIOT VERIFIES DUES

APPLILITIOU FOR I.D. CARD FOR

12/29/59

IDENTITY CARD, SERIES P NO, 311479

ISSUED ON

1/4/60 B1

O CERTIFICATE TUAT LO IS EMROYED AS ASSLABLE

IN RADIO PLANT, MINSE 111/60

ISSUED..FOR PRESENTATION TO THE DER.M FOR

SIGNATURE.

UD CERTIFICITE 1/19/61 TENT LO LIVES AT NO. Y

KUINN S., AT 24, CHIEF OF ZhKO

@ EMPLOYMENT RECORD BOOK

, CHIEF

I LETTER 7/9/62 FROM SON. EMB. WASH. TO

MARINA

PLEASE SEND TO LEGIBLE YOUR RESIDENCE

LEGIBLE FÜR REGISTRATiON.

AT THE SAME TIME PLEASE ILLEGIBLE NO. 118.

---

## Page 86

KRADY

FEARST

4/25/78

FILE:

11110415

"ALL MUTERVAL REC'D FROM AMBASSADOE DOBRYNIN

RELITINGTO OSUAL (50U. GOVT.DOLS) 1964

MEMO FOR: J. LEE RANKIN

SUBJ: DOCS ON GULD FURNISIYEO BY SON. GOUT.

...

BLIT

C. THE INCLUSION DE MARINA'S VISA APPLICATIO

Is SINGULAR IN VIEW: OF FACT TAHT COLM. AND

_HOT PEDESTED INTO AU MORIA MOREOVER, THE

DOL PURPORTING TO BE AN APPUCATION FOR AN

ExIT VIA LADY QUALIFIES AS SUCH. WE

KH fRon THE CASEs if OTHER SOU, CITIZENS

•.. TRUT SUEN PERSONS ARE RED'OTO PROVIDE

CONSIDERIBLY MORE INTO THAN WAS REFLECTED

IN MARINA'S "APPLICATION"

• MOREDER, IN INTER-

VIEWS'" MARINA REFERRED TO HAVING FILLED OUT

THE NECESARY FORMS AND O NUTED IN NIS

DART ThiT AbU 20 doLs were nee to

BENN AN EXIT ViSA

RICHARD NEGUS

DDP

0= BISORIDITY TO LUORK IN RADIO FALTERI

SEATED THE HE SEEDIN WIG. MiRINE

CORPS, SERVED IN MPAN ANO THE PIN LIPPINES

ATTENDED MILITARY SCHOOLS CONCERNED

LUTT ELECTRONICS; SERUES AS RADAR OPERA-

TO WUR iN QUIATION UNIT

---

## Page 87

11110913

---

## Page 88

DOBRININ MAILS

TRANSLATIONS EE MATERIAL RECO FROM SOV.

EMB. WASH D.C. RELATIVE TO EMB. FILE ON

1H0 AND MARINA

MARINA'S ADPLICTION TO REGISTER RESIDENCE

PERMIT: LAST PLACE iF RES. IN USS2:

CITY OF MINSK, UL. KOMMUNISTINESKAYA,

H04E4,,77.25

LHO LETTER TO RUSSIAN GUB., SAGHSD.C.

ASKS FORINTO ON NOW TO SUBSCRIBOTO

"PROVA" OR "'AVESTIA RUSSIAN LANGLAGE

NEWSPADERS OR SOME OTNER RUSSIAN LAN-

GUNCE MAGAZINES SUEN AS' IGONYOK"

"I WOuLo UKE FOR THE EMBASSY TO SEND US ANY

PEMODICALS ER BULLETINS CUNCH MAN PUT OUT

FER THE BENEFIT i YOUR CITIZENS LIVING, FOR

A TIME, IN THE USA.

11110417

---

## Page 89

•LHO DOCE FROM DOBRININ

ILLEGIBLE iNANES"

11110413

ODOE, WYO EXAMINES LHO FOR LASTORM WORK

1'160

@TRAINER AT FACTORY 1/1/60

(APLICATION POR ISSLENCE. DE ALLEN IDENTITY CARO,

iNCPECTOR WNO RECID AR T VERESO DOES 114/62

CY APPLICATION FOR IDENTITY CARO FOR PERSON W/O

CITIZENSHIP Y4/U!, INSPECTOR UNO REC'O

APPUCATIQUE VERIFIED DOES

15 APRUCITION FER VICA FOR DEPARRE FRON USSR (44D)

1/16/61, EMPINEE UNO RECON VERIFIED DOCS

CO APPLILATION FOR I.D: CARD FOR

12/29/59

IDENTITY. CARD, SERIESP NO, 311479 ISSUED ON

1:4/60 BY

D. CERTIFICATE THAT UNO IS EMPLONES AS ASSILBLER

IN RADIO PLANT, MINSE 111/60

ISSUES FIR PRESENTATION TO THE DER. M FOR

SIGNATURE:

UD CERTIFICATE M/19/61 TENT UNO LIVES AN IO. Y

KALWN S., AT 24, CHIEE DE ZAKO-

@ EMPLOYMENT RECORO BODiG, CHIEF-

# 2719/6252041 GEN. SUB. WASH. To

FRASE SEND TO INCOBRE YOUR RESiDENCE

AT THE GANE TE PLEASE MiSCISE NO. 118 .

---

