# 180-10142-10490

## Page 1

180-10142-10490

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

sEteldamith opener

interes byesplaining.

the release litter an

mandate at the 19t

delect

he is Siste did that

Sorriet lection of the Mesiço

City Station in 1965. His main

duty was to get information on.

bornet personnel and their

activities for recognition

purpores and espionags/:

counter-espranage activitie

In line with these gorals Mr.

testetner on hisponsitile

10142-10490

personnel and thorough

agents who were in contact

0000254

---

## Page 2

nything of importance

on interest would be brought

to M. Hestetness attention

Bath Mo beitetner and

Mig Dillinger remembered

that they recievedall the

ranscripts. from all th

layes on the torret embassy

were usually recieved later

of spanish. s

Mo Sestetner was

reports office CRET

---

## Page 3

713

SECRET

Din 1963 Mrs Düllenger

iaploger

perst edition was not

refered it to

Titenes need con

that a chronological faile

was of transcript was kept

hey were less sure lin

thought that such a file

pandest i a ten al

subject-bile.on

seepest Contacts, Subject

files were designated by a

four part nun

heri (Ex: 00-00-0=0)

0000256

---

## Page 4

4.

SECRET

: Bath Dillenger 7 bestetren

Ipsy recieed the transcontr

from either

Some

of the transcript tiere in

with

relicalan him for person

lity.assessments.om soviet

somonel. Hesaid that he

AENT

rare instances when then

no one else to do i

from the toyseppould isolly.

---

## Page 5

SECRET

-5-

They

the tay

ansta

rem

Sat alans

phants

surveillance wa

stant except forcined

he dour for securiti

that the photo aperation

attempted to get a pistin

of eve

0000258

---

## Page 6

→ 6

SEGRET

ALEUT

idion rotations buit

abs dead the note

broken Russian

indi sillingent nd seatter

with

in things of interest. There

was not case contact

between the Cuban and

soviet Operations.

indians no better

agle the thing continely

as a rule he made his

did make the potation

0000259

---

## Page 7

Abear.

- 7

SEGRET

about Couralds Russias

He said that he had never

ordered

matto

nakemargetpat comments

No bertetpen said that

transe an exacts -

nations on his oven as to

gence, counter-espionege, etc

They indicated that every

onversad

i was transcribed

They said that the

unilateral taps were not

directed at the soviet

ambassy.

Mo bestetner said that

the wine no pentant

Consulate avnilitary

Attachis offices.

ellenger andbestetner

said that the thad no cab

---

## Page 8

Аєемт.

SECRET

ontact ürth anyone

involved in the outside

operation a thes athlm

Thes's

tians, sid on sane occasions

Later ne than

bath said that

they the behe pries

Covert Action at the time

Ther

zaplager

Lady rementered that he

operations be of Cuban

insure of the time they

describedPhillipsao.an

aggressye, actre, Ancestil

stop aid that hes

0000261

---

## Page 9

ET -3 Al

32-96

SECRET

world have hadaccessto

hiwascloset in Scott

They said that

54d 90e

fias professionally

tion dis job uas processing

and printing the p

thee

mbassy

said that len. a

and testetnin

Jacks Ihitters.was

the head of the Mexico desk

and theate

the bet the selin

desk. They said that the infor

they sally reported would

tested would have gon

the Mexico desk The

Wreportafa foreigner visiti

a foreign en roy to lo mot

---

## Page 10

10

SECRET

Employee

Endones

higher attention. Mr Sestetne

indiasted that such e,

isasalmast

danely routiste espcially

They said that

ringan sailintin

maintaining

utro

pasananalyst.in.tha

section.

wasan

as wao

was

Vignere

of

wnd.was.mivolied.in

the sensitive susterlame

operations... SECRET

0000263

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Euplane

Thisgroup.

jas also

tetnes

thinks he mayes

the harrete

Emalinee

Employee

phissue suare an the

wasa

techn

mostaf the

natallof then

opezations, if

We bestetres said that

the only time he saw the

ctual reels of tape was when

was.interistic.in. hearing

one of the conversations He

said that the tapes were

not kept very long befor

re-use.

Mo bestetner said that

would routinely

not to make ma gien

SEGRET

0000264

---

## Page 12

-12-

SEGRET

sellinger pain sain,

other, sounce of info woula

le rantinely checked due to

thers tog

ning as intelligence

offices

were assets and halease

independent recollection

afihow@awald.fürit.com

to theirattention Allenger.

indicated that her memory

was that the first

information that she had

recieved about Asiald.

was that he was seekin

a visa Mo. bestetner

indicated that he had

revrewed the file prior

to our intererand

his recollection was that

the fist notice that the

had was from a traw-

tript as ascalds conver.-

satan than gondon

Ther

the Octob

0000265

---

## Page 13

Dit:!

4/3:

& SECRET 467

allenger did not recal

this transcijet assth

first one she sac after

seing the cable the sent to

HQ own 101s whe said that thi

transo

I must have freen

the one becairse of the

similarity of ths info. Then

sked whether there wasa

reference to a visasin the

contersation, she acknow.

legded that there was not

siich a reference Trhenasked

o expelain her memory. sh

said that the reference. to

a telegram to Mashington

and the fact that he wais

talking to the consulate has

made itolvioris to her.

recising this transcriped

have had already

---

## Page 14

14

SECRET

sertetner suggista that

someof the prove trans

were

get because the

routed around

indications that Dillenger

She sancher insane

cable (MExi 6455) and, at the

w.thetranscripts. whom

he is reced thedged

instruction

0000267

---

## Page 15

9157

& SECRET

conversations was noted

printo thangassination

arbedabats the paragraphs.

photo the said that the

must have checked the

photos. She was sharon a

photo of thi mmmand

said the thought that that

---

## Page 16

- 16 SECRET

also have been reviewed.

She also said that

Employee

may have

and ligh paragraph

noun

iritter

a order that sing

fauP file on the

---

## Page 17

117

sure she

rechecked it and had

proo

proof, as athense she

such certainty t

meano said that there wa

hadaily see

That hostl that thi

When remine

had routiny penall

to the date of this smeris

---

## Page 18

118

SECRETS

Bite elling that

was ve

this body unlikely that

with Darie Phillipen on ladged

response to this cable Whi

asked.whether.hehad.erer

heard that any mum.

asphoto of Oswald, Hestetnes

knowine

wing on hearing had

a photo bestetner said that

if.#@had.@photo.of.@susald

taken bya terrest in Russia

0000271

---

## Page 19

19

SECRET

he wauld expect it tor lie is

the 201 file

Sostetner arabin

rouledged

Max: 1014. He exalained

givinf the date of the parto

as October 28 by saying

that there can be errors

He noted that the inference

was that the date was

September 28

Neithen Seatstores nor

lillengei could recall

specific detacle about the

-Employee

Theywere asked about

the reference in MEXI. 702]

bout the tage of the first

The was recieved. Ih

that they and not init

"§FORET

-0000272

---

## Page 20

-20 -

SECRET

he sinter sid the then

the conisersation of 9/28

was reported lisfire.c

after the tation learned

that

lia conventation had

been connected to duvaldi

lyith Mericane

ritin

available had been.

reported when the 9/27

coniersations, the sisit had

nat been reported. He can

Mexi7034,

9/28/63.

Jestether acknowledge

that it would haire beer

peng untual den 24o to.

at least s times and not have

been picked sort the phot

0000273

---

## Page 21

ASECRET

operationtness contamally

reamphasiged that 2H0'5

it was hot surprising to

Airsona

to his request baco photo.

Soviet embassy alone is

corsibilit

involving

When shown the

eveninly transcribed!"

Kansas smeans

---

## Page 22

SECRET

very

Bang unusual that

Ad to the papatbility

That pirate shout

that he was awar

heart of

taff members

SECRET

0000275

---

