# 180-10145-10390

## Page 1

180-10145-10390

11112407

8/15/78

Till Title: knacs. Hatold

201- 18446

А линеш of Harold sadl's 201 file indicater that the bulle

of the materal contaied theres concerts the percod 1930-1935;

desing wiel tike he sewed as a junalet he shanghai and

The orly undences of CIA intreet in chaes appears is

t. 201 que in the yousing druments

03

11 25-Ine 1951 тепано,

Deputy

Chief tt 10 1o Jubeet: Hold R. Leased, Request fr de uporation

This drewmeat requests as formation sancheck for

pese of actemusing valaty of wharges that leases is

symatet to and a connected with lorrunist actioties.

It peace that wal, in his position as as adwar in till

Cait I project for the Fred toundation in in a portis to

te in contact wits

rogan derelaped by

Yeste was, cated

upon y the Hold troundates to prent some suggetions for

a tae last progras.

3/PV

2)7 Moreal 1951 Hemandun, Secuty Offee, lobert Cunninghai

to Mast. Auceter for Petey ordination.

Tes memo appears responsive to request in t above. It

states that hardes had been unnected with at least 2 factions

of lorent Farty While Wing a ta last and that stune

cation should he wed is stating or asset wit sube

wither investegatton educato that while subject dixies may overt

RETURNTO CLA

Background Une Orky

Do Not Reproduce

185-7-4510300

---

## Page 2

SIGNET

11112608

commuxiet Party afflatin, his areation i retiritice as dighly

questionable is portical sympatly. Are not presently wele

unqualfedly ustied.

3) 2 hoes Reference Hour dated 26-THae1956; Hille No. I8-5237;

Souce: CI/OA: Subject: Hacold R. Searcs.

His fors states." Then is a Mistuted CI/OH folder on

the sieget of this 201 held I RI/AR File, Hask-CIA-Bers ..

4) Drument Irasfer And Coss Reference form deted IS Sep 1958

Indicates let there is a sentucted II/DA folder on theis sulliset

of this 201 cheld under t°5237.

3) 9 January 1975 Ru of 201 File 0 1 5. Ustigen Estegg

the 201 file on lasses ds a counteuntelegrace ease

1) Deucoralty (201) File Requent Dated: 26 dug'57 From: FE/2/CE

File is marked "Nossensitive"

No "Source Document"

Coustry of Residence: Char

Action Dexk: FE/2/LE

File is or Permanent. Charge and is

. "Restricted"

Signed by

There are sevual FBI reports in frases Whick are all sealed.

SIGNET

---

## Page 3

11112409

Kanto, clavea 6-89136)

A review of KANTOR's file (C-89136) indicetes Agerey intereet.

In subyect Ix 1961.

Antedated PRO, Part Induates that Herte was work or May 9,1934.

in set Youk lty He is listed as a U s. lizen kio, et that lime, wes

a stalat. it the unenty of (opeanagen, "nee Plads. Hes travel

Mitade the country of preseat Madeace i lited as ollows.

reamark. Tuly 261957- Nay 31,1958.

455K _

Bay 31, 1958- July 9, 1958. It stay wouth ar urle ia InsE).

Reamack July 9, 1958- N0. 25, 1958.

H.S.А.

Nor. 25,1958-Ja2.30,1959.

desmark. J. 30, 1959. Present

in the sat Sidle, and soue of extever

He sered in the USMC. from 1952 to 1955p and In the UST Kenne

from 1955 util Oct 8,1960. Bott of dis pareats wee bork in llena

KIMPROVE And ICHARVEST potestial wirs made on Fet. 17.1961

dy Rickard 1. Walch, WE-I/ Dexnark.

a POA. was granted fr contact, asscament and plygrape orly in

Marck 1, 196/ in a meno is Cheef, NE/1) Deamack, Atte: Richard Walsh

Cables inderate that keater te met iy RAMEs undes alias or.

2 esta a este tie he remate dice. t se tenglis.

hart cable, dated Aug. 15,191, to. Quiector from.

indecades that.

RAMEY SPONLa reCORtaCT SufeCt UNO just retur es por lugiada Mire departere

for new york is carly serente.

---

