# 180-10142-10111

## Page 1

180-10142-10111

Box 23

Folder'?

=9

2. 2.

6/3/28.

11:45 am.

125 Assigued to Mexico Gitalin 59/

TechNiciAN -

Inside EmbAssy

Jeveral. Tech. - All eps. -

- Photo Lab. TechriciAN

Terminated 64 or 65

SAme All Hirughout period!

Soviet! CUbA -

DirecT re CubA

Soviet ouly indirect.

Ser up camero's - Cubad-

Sovie - only once- took Augles of

front gate from boopils Ene

eites JacK INV, on tom thistlet but ofeeds

for CabAn Op. - memory rogue.

Or picked up photes the

shout time

in the beginning. (769 shes)

Coverage

Tried to get fell daylight

Coverage- lus very dificult.

MAN $ his suother na. iT

ERACTA OR LeiCA

bAlscopen

Tripod - MANesh in beginniNg: gATeoNly.

maybe

- lAter, more sophisticated

impulse to cover CoNsulAte,

-tried to cover two gates

DO NOT HEPRODU

RETURN TO CIA

10142-10111

---

## Page 2

- both cAmerAs iN Sme Ap.T. =

probably sepArate droms

on etch cAmerA

- AuTomoTiC CAmerA repissere

The timme also

(Up unt? 59), coverage was werk

everywhere except. Soviet.

Slipping ma: test unld show

AnsivAl dotes of equip.

He filed mouthly reports - his

Activities, maybe problems.

Time printed on the Negative

W.. Auto cAmerA,

much false triggering-camerA

ats tricky

Triggering device from sparring scope.

Opention sewized aun comert, developed

Am, I made coutter priurs.

He made blowups.

Oljecrive: I.D Al visitors.

Eficiency: Impulse woolh good, sme

MiNOR iNtENupTioNS

tou werk bosteries, ec.

MANUAl, 900d, but humAN erhor

---

## Page 3

Hand too manual op. to Keep

CONStANT ATeNTION.

Impulse comers- worked drylight

hours.

Need involved is tay other

Sumeillance ops on CubAN

on tussian (e.g: wiretaps) to

his Knowledge,

bur did do

delivery work, i some

deliveries to Russian

tenstoror.Corky.couple of

months.

Doesn't reCAll "Rudi"

on Randolph

CArdi"

Win Scort was Spristied - Never

complaied - he was

mericulous - had big interest

in techivical ops.

Auve reviewed Sume Nance photor. -

Appened to be win Scort's.

"right hand mAn,

in Soun

respects, buT NoT necessanty

averAn

---

## Page 4

Tom Keena lenssed topes. -

Neer worked l him

the Name to never came to his

Aneution price to 1/22/63.

Veryoften, he was requested to

deliver message to (B. TARASoA)

to give priority to pArTiculare

bopes.

Russ. ta (inside).

No. Krauledge of menus of

CommunicAtion ul photo post.

Monthly rep's were disparched

to Adgtas.

Doesn't know it photo of hito

WAs ever tokeN, No one

ever discussed is al him.

Did mAke some blowups

right after the AsS. -

but just routine - offer

hod 30-70/ wK.

Assuming a lives to plate

Wald to sort can Enter

---

## Page 5

it was on sas on Sun, on case

• gee gava sha ep's timen

Not possibla if cAmend wAs

work.ng..

CAmenas At luss. wers All MANus!

Cif be recolls correcrly.)

Alvme - NoT cAseof. tor tboN

Phillips- ? (PropAgANdA)

(5hn)-=

Could be CAse off.)

Srieider)?

WAS in Atgtrs - 63-65

Mly resigwed - told hed he seut.

CaAme

bAck to

Mexico -

Ainport CouerAge - fall entries i

exists our of CUbA)-

(PASSpONT) COUENAg

(Passange( manitests)

Doesn't umb. time of coveisge

tor sue.

---

## Page 6

Embassy coverag

conflict

uma boodpasture was

=co.

may have been how

GrEgoRy D PARNuth)

---

## Page 7

R.Z.

4/3/78

Ed ~ present

shown teller

(1959 )

inside

Scopz

19640265 retired

JACkINu.

"se Tom Haslet ]

tried to get full daylight

corre

scents e hand to bind

persistent enough.

somzons going in would

rigger it

EffiCIENCY

goal ID ever

impulse worked good but there

were flukes.

---

