# 180-10141-10247

## Page 1

180-10141-10247

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: ' (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

Patrick L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative Counsel

1133

TO:

(Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

PHICER

NITIAL

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Mr.

Shepanek

0/ SA/DO/0

Tube:

DX6 - Green

2.

3. Russ almies

4.

Mar 138

5.

Chris-Cot

7.

9.

10.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

NO.

MAR & 2 30 PM "78

DATE

8 March 1978

from whom

Draw a line across column aftor eoch comment.)

Attached is the summary

which Patricia Orr,

prepared.

Could you please

review them as soon as

possible as she wants to take

them out of the building.

Please forward them back

Please advise me of

any delays.

et a de.

Chased Raghe

12.

13

•14

15.

FORM

3-02

610 USE PRENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

10141-10247

---

## Page 2

SECRET

1'2/24/78

Pedro Dias hake

201

I.

#- 24 04.59

Routing $ Recond Sheet.

..to Hunt revd 30/10.

forwarded nov.

of Diar lauz file.

-GA watch office 00t 547

no That plane prete

by Pedro Diaz Lanu to

drop lafless. and prob bombs over Havana 24 0c459

hay

Castro

Faily.

Ne Oct 59 piloted sy haun to disrupt.

Dispatch...

23 Out 59.

attached sample of leathers congred tron...

Diaz Lan's

plene 21 out 54

= Dispater:. 18 Sept 59.

re: operationae..

to Chiet WHD. from Havana

crypts:

PDL

subs

said he had fore to trans and talked aDL.

pit; who told him that he needed a neaw..

ton his Miami arganisation, in resus de bad

in the lubar.. sir

to join him. He instructed

The subject to see his

Toe who was willing Hasana contact and range

pr offers expiltration

Sub;.... asked feat

Habana contact Dista

obade or Raynock) had Mi

capability, and

Station

assumes

that

answered that they die

SE

---

## Page 3

2/24/78

SECRET

Pedro Draz hanz

DDO

do di ta LoRiE

-described.as

later of group, most inte

Group was cautioned abort need

for sent:

"However, There o a close and apparenth

unshakeable relationship-with people like

Frank Promini $ Other people i/ whom

revolution. I hare...

about Fiorini speeit

Чate коні а рат і

tales too much..

But as and it GaS

proceed with This.

be. frequente

around That grow

thes and The word of thee people...

that.he.ar

being anformed of their achintils"

- In Manch

went to.

...of Amb

deal re:

58 mil l

re inally paid tim uth of credit.

Dispatch.

4 Ag. 59. To Chief WHDir fron Miamilka

Report on Miami base involvement in Arrival of

pedro Dias Laws in U.s.

at party- Diaz Lang his wife Tania, sergio braz

Brell; Carlos bchegoyen..

charsered. boat to

pick ap biaz

tanted 10

hola.part

noon Party several Cyes.

-= Diaz concerned

LADALUM

1 GDARBOR. assiSted hiding Diaz

Diar

desprte.. CAs attemptsto. Let him rest

Tentative plan. was siar would taken ton INs,

put in a secure plece, mored to another area

in country, put thres.

intensive interrogation

the renoved to forep duce whse...

garfaced... Gen. Cabele expected to discuss matter n

ECRECT

---

## Page 4

2/24/18

Lanz

207

PLDL

- ROS

ADCHAR Subs als

that IQD13/45)

in Miami.

ODACID

- DOC.

Cross ref for 201 - 259/201

(Lanz 201 File)

re:

Ricard Luis LORiA

valle - ca.

1928, аз

age 32-

24.. Dee 58 and reintered costa Rice from

Fla 0s

Mexico. ou 31 Dec 58

remo. for record

7. Ang 54

Re: conversana

approx. One-we prior

of former president Galo Plaza of Echoldo.

Moscoso... told me in stret confidence that has

frame pend end an An escalane

& FeStify

sefore.u.s.long.

- Dispatch

Excelan e sa is thief win In from hidini.

ADCOVE

Re: Meeting N/ @DBLAS, @ DCHAR,

which bear. Batists faint.

outliaed plaus in meetilsuggest propaganda progre

- Subis will resist groups

Discussion of poss. and

hansmitten on do pite too.

positionas.

in the Caribbean. fea

GOODE

---

## Page 5

*2/24/78

SECRET

Pedro: Diaz hanz

DDO

d-described at leater of group, most intelligen

Group. was cautioned about need

for. security.

"However, there o a close and apparenth

unshakeable relationship. with people like

Frank Borini $ Othen people wo/ whom

Fiorihi is a threat in!

tales too much.: But as and I (sic) we

procees with mhis...

it has to be done mith

he expectation That Prim and shes are going tr

That he and

58 mil which

IP cove personally paid thim lett's of credit

-- Brspatch.

4 My. 59.

76 Chief WH Dir from Miami Charles

Report on Miami base involvement in Arrival of

pedro Diaz Lana an U.S...

Lake party-

Diaz Lauz his wife Tania, Sergio Diaz

Bruell; Carlos Echegoyen.

Echegoyen: Bruele had

charsered.....

boat to

pick ap biaz

come.

_wanted t0

several.days..

no Party brother. Marcos

-Diaz concerned

ADALUM.

Tentative plan. was: Diaz would taken From INS,

Put in a secure plece, mored to another. area

in country, put thre intensive interrogation

thes renoved to foreign are whese...

he would be

sarfaced. Gen. Cabele expected to discuss matter. sui.

SEGRET

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

2/24/78

Pedro.. Dizz Lanz.

PDO

em over Diaz to kanda plicano

modiferent. resions of..

Gen. Cabell

and Gen swing; appearance of Eistland

committer rep

rice - co Danon

wash Post - 7-24-59-" Defeeting..

-- Memo for Record 15 July 1954.

re: Testimony of Diaz Lanz

Boninentcommunists-

(testified 1sf Fuly)

Ide, Rane, Lilma Castro, Ernesto Guevara, Anton

Nunez, Armando Hast, Manuel Pineiro, Anman

Rimino valder, Callio comer ochon,.

Pina, frue Escalona,.

David salvador,

Bayo, Prank Torre.

Pedro.

is bit ans

Maul 59. "Verdadera...

Estatura cinica

CIA Memo. of Conversatio 10 Ful, 59

Bure en immigrate Mere

Dir of intellig

- Draft demo for Record Fek (initialed)

8 57 In read from friend of Dizz' in Miami -1

59. Re: Diaz Lanz case

taone

Byers ouit: Sergio Diar

Carlos Echigorps (former

cincian in Cuban AFIwell.), Who had abtained boat in

Miami which was used fo bring Diaz from Caba, had...

fone to see byers immed. after their release

TArs: they

were accompanied by Freak Fistine, t

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

2/4/78

Pedro Diaz Lanz

DDO

senate. sub commitee; would.

receive 100% us ford support in overthronin

Castro.

Prior 10 Diaz departure the luban fir fore

purchased one c-46 and one B. 25 aircrat

Fiorinis name..

Fomini

to get.

i corin get to sell aircraft t to it brer te

on 8 Ful

Fioriniasked Byer

(

Discussion.

Diaz

2 per an un 59.

Re Diaz- publicity o

- Cable from die 10 freign LA Staziono 27ul, 59

- Requests max.. preas and radio exploration of

refectin 20 Fune of Diaz Lanz.

/ recommend

tions or passionare of soon.

- Dispatch 2 Fuly 1959 to Chiep WHS from COS Hasan

re Diaz Lanz-Mise -...

enclosscal 2 copies of lette

fron. Dize sant to cuban president.

Cable. 22 June 54: To Dir... from Havana

Re: departuse of Diaz Lauz

LODURGE! not dirge enry lOspRiMe of petin.

Diaz. Lanz

cable 21 June 59 to Dir from

Havana.

w/hehp..of.

Kim. Bryes,

American,. tres. Aerodes.

Ce: Diaz Laws departure corp sing one yacht

LauRequests no publictty.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

(

SEGNET

C

2/24/78

Pedro Diaz hanz

DDO:

= Sufonuation Report 16 Fun. 59

Re:

Chiet of Air Forces. Confidential statements abert need

for....

counter revolution againot Castro.

fouree: Us businessio

at lugsh of source.

Castro's communir rendencies.

regarting symptomo or

- Cable. 7 Jan 59

to Dir from santiago de Cuba

amo... rebel

2. Cubani

atrocities...

- Cable....

Rept....

25 o 50 to Damon ris di pa dichia,

/American cappued.- of.

abans - Pedro Ruiz Lanz

probo Diaz lanz) and Amer = Frank Riosini..

Fiorini

named co-pilot and anner. plane C-45..

Fiorini.know

'Francisco" amore Cubano.

Of Isterea abseuce hame.

Ricardo de la Lorie

Cable 22 Nor. 58

Ара нан лі міс. н (7)

Apatiingas. Airpos Michoacam.

Diaz .

Lanz,.. Frank Fiorin

Cable 14.N00.58

Rept. Richarda de la Lerie-. bronght air plane phoecion,

Ariz., scheduled for departure iz or. 13 Nou. Par. Verdere

мех.

enronte venezuela.

Diaz Canz will prob acconte

de la horie.

- Cable 11. Nov 58

$, Draz haur

Ricardo de la torre Vin San Francico: Fiorini left rex

---

## Page 9

(

SEGRET

for Prisco bu

car night 4 Nor. meet pilots.

De la Lorie and Diaz...

borenor Hotel -

Cable 2 von 58 t0 Dir from hex City

Man tran ...

W/. subis sdentifiedas. Frank Brosin

Men prat. pedro huir Diaz Lauz and Ricardo de

horie, poss. going henezuela

- Cable 3008 38 to Dir from

rex Citr

Ric. de la horie and Draz Lauz an.

rex cit by car

27 0ut 58. Believed had wish trouble at bonde

Unidennified man. accompanied them,

adle 14 hy 58 to Din from dan Juan

addresses...

ramica pere he signero 14 Any seeking identis

Diaz. Lanz,

pict of Beecherast plane N-48-9, who nisits kingston

often and believed to senero rose one broug

Castro contier or pilots.

Personer preetinngs.....

201 tile request

malysis. section...

- housensitine

5. Jul 1959.

---

## Page 10

SECRET

Sanitized

PEDRO DIAZ. LANZ

- News artides -

DDO

News - 21 April 1915 by Paw Meskil.

- Dispatch. _

to Chief from Cries

DELETED - GET FUL

COPY

Progress._. Rept.

1-31 Aug: 63.

W/. help..of

Piorini- able to keep informer of

acinties of Diaz Lauz...

bros.in attempts to mount.

air raid over cuba..

" Information

Then passed to local security agencies in time

for them to thwart plans.

- Dad summary itus 63

Piquit B1 28 Ful

over Havana aborted-bomb,

leafer raid planned.

Plans:

pera tie file, no

Maration kas= as.

/tup

" Fioria

to

head.

decon for FBI sunilane

Lans bros to leave cars at hone to appear as

but. will attempt to

Maryl They minions Ranch where blane to

be used. Mr raid it located.. Fiorini send

practice.

size. and filled wy nuts and bott for strapher

- 8 May 63-Fiorim told source he had beck

approached on Marcos to parca up diference

and cooperate in "anti-casto actino". sax

---

## Page 11

C

SEGRET

before one Pedro would be pilot..

turn indireet channels. Aanz bros.

assitting in

sale of yacht.

"forini had been working a the bros. ustil a falling

now evidently beingreprined.".

= - Memo - re:

Cuba. in

- Memo to S.J. Grogan.

", ast to Director

- musingation.on Us. auth.

Wm Johnson,

hampered ty storie -

бианнеї.., Fiosini

for. leafle

drop.

Porke Claims

8 Dec. swanner intercepted in Nassau tet in

Nassan....

Porke, Fiorini

permit to fly to Great Extra Island, out penat

10. Dec...

eaper pound. on Norman ca

14. Dec. Thompsow flew to 7 Laude dale to pick

conson, soone point on a from

and morni,.

Andros Island.

Plane Han

patter day see and rened trini

reasents of tempses

swanner

and plane until har 63- story plane shot den

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Fiorini

In tast

Johnson, have had none ..

Porke daim 4A Sponsorship.

March 62

repling. Finger

mdication. from Castros speeches

what happened.

re a helefereness, including:

into on other "elements of incident as

having driver swanne

Founta

Torini to

DIt Lander dale to Lone

boat w/ leafless

Swanners

- Mrs. swanners reple trip Is Anchos Island

w/ her for and friend of her husband

Ref.

Coma te me As bury and Momen brake,

to rantino -prob. John linent Martino

sentenced to.

oct.

62 not Be as on the

"released

was not,"

not ampld by CIA.

SECDET

---

## Page 13

SECHET

bolume I

12/9/60 Cable 10 Arpector fr. WAVE

Hamilton impressed o/ mans sincerity s potential

CODBIAS RORIAS enthusiastiz orer Tef.

trip but wanted very careful preparation i

order to avoid any poss. fail. Suggested amph

advance publicity order condition dost

governent to granting

necessan usas

and landing permits.

QD Bias speeding up work on A/ which

can be ready 0/A 15 Sec. Plane

can accomodate number named WAVE

2051

/s comment: H@S approved planning

Diaz hanz propaganda...

"Flight of truth"

as proposed HQS by TWICKER

12/2/60 Cable to Dir fI WAVE

in leading magazine re KUBARK:

vilsay - KUBARK backing AMIRON (Ray 0.

4RR) W/ funds & equipment AMIRON!

Leftist Comminst dominated froup

and " Fidelistas sin Ride" L

KUBARK

gives AMIRON talf million per month

cores operating costs.

Pereal number plans.

---

## Page 14

FORET

Diaz Lauz

varone

ANDIP

CLA

furnished?

AMIRON by IKUBARE and

location.

- wil reval Training sites buat,..

PBARLIE

personnel working / AMDIP I and

AMIRON plans for invasion Cuba

- Expose AM DIDI for buying off

KUBARK personnel Wach

- Clains discussed above $. 5 Nor 62

invasion plans AMIRON From Guat. W

Sourines

late ocT 62.

Two men trone KOBARK

..assured

Echegoyen funds would be w/held

from support. AMIRON. Capable campy.

ont threat

once close Diaz hans; but how

distrusts hirn:

dould attempt discredit Echefoyer

6 Dee 60 cable To Dir from GOLD 2

recommend candidates tor certain fielde.

Laure, Enrique. Laca

sident- Fose Ignacio Paro

•soldier. Manuel Artime

Professor - Oscar de la lege

Cathol. actiz: Enrique Pos

GoLD-Sounding out opinion/desirability

of induding Draz haur specifically.

---

## Page 15

_ SECRET

- 6 DeC 60 Cable 10 IMGOLD Havana to

Dir.

Rodriguez Tamaya "El Mexicano" offering 62

info he Diaz hanz group. Report would out

subjeets I in prison, claimo tamayo

Claimo female friend Diaz hanz working

Miami airport also 0-2 agent

- suggest Diaz honz be causined re our

doubts loyalty his immed. friends.

-Dispotch 29 NoV 60 to Chief WH div fr.

Chief OS, Havana.

varona says of lane- "a young man,

somewhat in petrons, who is now

working with us.

233 NOV 60 Cable to JHASH from DIR

"1. Disapprore para 377 ref. HQS doe

._ пот.

desire additional cuban pilots s does

not with fire Diar lour and company

false impression by instituting toen

limited training program

2...

AMVANG? aduired HpS he passed

---

## Page 16

SEUNtI

Letit

U8. 1s000 obtained from private sources tor

torepair B-25. Further States aireratt

repd i lane intends make leafet

drop on or about 30 Nov..

Possible

KUBARK funds parsed. AMVANG 3

foor prop use how being diverted repai

airerato.

3. 495

policy re no ODYOKE, spontored

overflight from BPPRIME SHU Stands

MASH requested take immed. steps

to stop flight If cannot accomplish

this by persuasion norty local auth

such a fet to enable them

impound aircraft. Essential aurid

poss. such indep. air ops jeopardize

our air ops including us ope

Locka

4. Reatize Lanz may be polit. asset.

It so can best be used that purpose

w/in AMP ASP.!

WH. comprent: Twicker states Lanz

requests funds to repair.. personally

onned B.25 at cost of Us $51.000,

Also Wants US 82, 240 to give Link

training to 9 pilots to 3 mos

SECHET

---

## Page 17

SECRET

- Cable 24 NOV 60 to Dir FITMASH.

1- Diaz Lawn pined AMRASP bringing

pilots: Abel Hera Corton, Frank

Gorini; Francisco Lano, Evangelista

Mursuli; Ramon P. Fuentes, Neita

Awarez

2 Shortly after joining AMRASP!, Diar

suggested to AMHAWK est. of

sper. mission soup comprises

above personnel, all of whom,

according to Diaz are qualified

as AlC mechanies. The grong

would drop AMRASP leaflets on cities,

small towns & cooperatives s could

Hy cargo mistious when required.

3. To prepare themselves for stand b

radiness Diaz has requested

AMHAWK ($ AMHAWK has gueried

TwIcker) for funds to: (A) rehas

the personally: onned B-25 A/Co

Diaz at cost of approx. DLSED.

(B) Provide pilate N/ Linke

trainer time 18 pilots at 10hs.

monthly, at cost of Ils 8 per

and (c) Counte purchase

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

a Hol equipped Cestra 180 1/0.410

1. bias is proceeding w/ B-28 rehab

nia loan 12,500 from Mignel Argel

queredo, for which, achording

AMCHIRP-I, he with air drop

Bohemias over Caba..

5. While ralize present policy

precludes Us- based flights, desire at

minimum maintain flight

profiziency Thi integrated pony whose

custent i future activities could be

monitored & directed by the newly-

established joint Cuban Amer ops

section of the mil. cominision.

Beyond being a pitt.

Diar Lanz exudes

certain mystigue which the press has

been quich

to recog. Thus he s

a current propaganda I polit. asset

as wele as a potential milit. asset.

AMHAWK commented somewhat

agnicasey That Diat Lane foired.

AMRAST primaril to solve ho

econ. probs. However TWICKER bllie.

Diaz highly motitted i recognizes

ЭЗONET

---

## Page 19

- SECRET

AMRASP as mainstream anti-Castro ors.

Temp. solution has been to assign Diaz

gor to transport commission, which how

punctime under MIL Conmission,

but funds are not currently budgered.

for link trained time.

7. Request Has approve inital link

trainer refresher of DuS 960, 15 hrs

each pilot, then monthly cost of DIS 640.

Not likely training to extend beyond 3 mot.

P. Feel political advantages Keeping Diaz

satisfied and cooperative well worth

above relatively minor expenditure

- Document transfer $ cross-ret - 21 Sep-60

Diaz ranz made offer of assist by susi

of 201-829376

12 oct 60 cable to Dir

fr. Londa

Re: developments in !

- Dr. Sancher trangs has left FRD folloning

a disagreement w/ other leaders. He is non

joining... forces w groups led by Diaz Lave,.

Conte Aguero $ others:

- barona appta coord. of FRD - in Spite opp.

Fusto Carillo.

Redevelopments. re: fifty in Casa-

SECRET

---

## Page 20

•SECRET

Memo for record re: Pept reeting w/segio

By. Bernard E, Bernhart

• 77 S0рt 00

in t2ol-27-82-07

spole to Pojas before planned to departure

to Miami to see ricardo Lorie, in an

effort to give other side Than Anti-FiD

Rojas relatively objective but on balance

favored New of yourg revolutionares life

Miazza de Liberacion. Analyzed Situatin

7 MR accurateh AMBIDD*-L

secame rep m. FRD for MRR, ther

repitanted ond, on views to exclusin of

Men interests Lamented That number of

Tino Diazis mission)

Dizz (Berm, Rejas mnawere

wasted by

not being putto use. boy as result of

offerences betw. young revol. & END.

"Los tiejosa Politicos in FRD 100 far to

right: Asked it 0s might lend

support to more Then the group. was

old us. nor supporting an

Asked it military types i group.

perhaps

Arianza.

could se fire suopos

Rejas"

strong feline

suit.

cool. not poss. This time - Too anti-

FRD sentiment. Fell poLiticos of FRD

seff-seeking. Young revol suffering bitterness,.

SARACT

---

## Page 21

SECRET

disillisionment

Rigusfested propatton muting with ERD-Member

but not s principals- lounter suggests made

Rojas suggest priends, es: Conte Aguero, horie

to approach FRD again

- Memo 19 sept 60 for: C/WH/4/C1 Fro Gerard

Re: Request for Polcheck

Drovar.

(NOTE: Ans. to check on Moya in Panegues file)

- wadi-

Arianza people repta in toun - Diaz lanz,

Come Aguero, Panage (Drejo:), Maginio Mino"

Diar. - could be reached at address of his.

inna Moja:

Indicates. Rand into that

Parque may be laco plent taggest

Buro Check on horse and furs.

Moza, a

we as furnish into on Panegue and for

activittes in U.S..

Panefues NY address: San Dafael HARd,

65 w. 45P. St, RmlE Tel. JAZ-4800

Memo for: C/WH /4/PA

1 SEPT 60

fr: NH/4/20 - John F. Mallard.

Me: Cubans desirous of meeting a/ State Dept.

Reps:

Senor China, Pane gre, Diaz Lan z,

Conte Azuero desire meeting. Indicates St. Dept.

personnel have no desire to see Cusans.

Author

indicates desire sive casans cold should-

SECHET

---

## Page 22

SECHET

- Cable

no encourajement - cannot operate independen

i any type of of suppot or as dance

6 SEP 60 to Dir from MASH. - rexi eit

Indicates "Caris" in military statt -

relations AMEER. Balance AMCIGAR..

hives of auth. I Perp. MASH) committees

badly snarled rile recent insistence

AMEER his perogative as AMCIGAR

member

General ill eling distrust senior AHMASPERS

oward AMEER also applies "his boys"

In military field these include oscar Diar

(ground) ,

•Orlando Garcia (recruitiry),

and Felipe Lidal Santtago (naval.

Most immed. isue - Pedoo Diar Lanz Who

walked in recruising ofe last nk august

volunteered to join AMRASP

pilot group as an

individual. Milit afreed Dias hanz fine

pilot, pining irrAsp, political plum".

since he founding member competing 'Hiara?

Nobregas and lilatara only lukewarm

At puncture AMEER stepped in, order ld Miscon.

alept Diaz Lant, succeeded puttiy all

senor mit. staff member in oppor

lame still unresolved.

so militans

SECHET

---

## Page 23

SECRET

AMRASPERS, afree meeting absolute necessity, de

revalidate Their positions nY à nI AMCIGAr 0O

body fe particulany their positions in respect

midindual ALCIGAR menes (AMER É

AMHAWE.

- cable: Ang 2a, 60 to Dir from Havana

le: Armando hora Herander - Miro man

He was close to Raul Chibari; maintaino contact

with Draz Lanz. orf. resistance in Cusa. Reges

assitance

Cable

My 1 60 t0 Dir from Havana.

Disseusin in AMYUM-I group more

extusive The finaucial trousles..

Lorie /AMP

split caused seros internal repercussino

in termo

AMYUM-I group receiving via.

their channels from MASH that OD VOKE]

now sapporting Lorie, Nino Diaz, Diar Laur..

- PRD for-Control de Pesonal - Pedrokuis

Diaz Lanz

- Nemo for Chief WHD Re Mix. Roarke (sic) 5r

6 He 60-

fr. ID. Esterline

In interniew of Porke w/ rep. of 00/c in NYS,

Porke said Diaz Lour most desening of U.S.

support: Kuons Diaz Lanz; planaig da

SECRET

---

## Page 24

SEGRET

appear on T.V. program NYC. 5 Fal

Said somora have afreed to five Daz Lame

mit. Sase in Nicara. Will call it committer

to RescueL. Ame. from commenion o

similan. Rorte Claims Spraille

Brade tentativel, agreed to support

-

Cable 28 June 1960 to MASH. fr: Dir.

Pedro Diaz Lauz not connected ERD in ou

Karley wills brief. WH Comment: concened

surfacing in Catta lica of org. headed Sy PDL

office remo - 24 Je 60 to Chief WH/FI DinFiR

AMN. 305 Reynold, From: Chief contact

Dinisim,.

100 (L/A Branch)

Re: Pedro Diaz Lanz.

From FoM- Ashcast- signed by Hange

A. REbro McCraw.

In interniew, requesed br

Lant to ook "that

people Think 8 should don expresed desire to

work to ore throw Castro. Not ven enthustati

about anti-castro Frente of. in rexiro Coz.

Reservations... about trustworthiness of Artime

- Message to the People of Cuba i Brothers of

America a the Cusan Costuttnal:

Crusad...

Syned 6/16/60. 5y PDL,-

---

## Page 25

SECRET

Andr Abel Mera Corone; Capt Rabel I.M.

Gonzalez.

- Cable 18 tune 60 to Dir fri MAsHi!

18 June Diano Las America canies

ad surfacig proup called Cruzada

Cusana Constitucional sigmed Sz PDL,

corton, Gonzalez.

table indicates concern for need of controlled

3, coordinated propajanda effort.

Avoid premature releases

- Dispatch 12-Fan 60

Chief WH Dir, from Miami NHD Rep

Re: Contact w/@D Bias 10 JAN60

by Patrick 1. Kannley

Indicates biller fand betw.

QDBIAS $ ODCOVE

ALsO QOCOVE assaulted @ICHAR

Drscussed @CHARS recent trip to Guat. QDBIAS

ware but personally opposed those sine

pOCHAR took alony Surge Bruell and

Finini. INS took Piorinis passport wher

he re-ented the Us. Apparently

They are "prepared to throw the bore at

Fiorin" Forini in real danger of losing.

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECRET

his citizenship

Choses INs also tauy actin af. hasteners)

Indicato DCHAR has ideas of lus un,

and GDB/1S does it try to stand in

his way.

- 7 Тл 60

10 Dir fr: MASH Cable

PDL. abont to initiate fund-raisiny

campaign for prop

Suggests reuse w/ IDI GORAS

obious probes arsily out of premature

support anti Castro novenest generally.

PDL Speeifically

WH Comment. Ref indirates Darlave

preparing launch offeneive afainst castro

from Guatemala

13 May 60 table to Dir trom: t1As flavana.

repis - PDL plans to land wenprepared

force 10-100 Cisco. ASAP- poss- end of re

- 13 May 60 Cable to Bir: fr- Havana

Rept MR broke contact W MAR

due discorer it heavily penetrayed

Note: ref: cable stated

Dri Santago Rey.

SEGRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

undergoing guerilla warfare trainty

Miami area under command Diaz Larz

- Cable May R 60

to dir fr: Miami

Action: NHS CMr. Phillips, WH DiV

nonfied 2035, " May 60)

Summary activires Pol indicating action

imminent

Ref reenng discussion betw. Aliepro,

Piedro, Paget re: support for t0-

Us 50, 000 mentioned as goal. Not

Known whether funds handed over to

PDLthQ: Repte funds Obtained.

Rept - force-perhaps 100 men, forged s

much eguipment issued to men berne

fiven field training outskirts trame

rosinis ren racinated. Have 2

boats, 2 aircrats at their dsposal

Believed DL contemplating more.

direete, from FLA to Cuber. Gast

mentioned - stragens base for expeditin

contacta FBI, Border Patro re: developmas,

They will contact Forcint PDL Under

SECRFT

---

## Page 28

SEGNET

-

circumotanice do noi intende to contact Fir

myserf.

sufgests close alleation soth psychd. f

polit: irplicationo o7 such expedit. noveras

IDe: Question raised whather some

action should se taken to "susmarine"

D. Li plano. - a promise "melle staD.

Thorghly discredited bota in Cuba s

b/ more resp. exile elements é has consistent

provided "effectire peg from castro fort

propaganda".

I effect nove byol at

This time might have on THARC

planning. i timining, Also, Implications

0f pors.

accomodatin o/ ouat. Gort

PDL need caretul considerato.

"In light of poss harmtue results of

Poi venture, may wich consider proposing.

coordinated action by

US CorA to

frustrate this before it gets oft te

fround."

Neus article Miami Herald 10 April 1160

"I8 castroi Time Rua OuT"

- Meno fon DC1 ha DDP 30 Rad 60

Re :.

CIA involvement in case of Larter.

Diraz Lanz, forner Depty.

Direetor of

SECRET

---

## Page 29

Sculic!

Cuban Revol. Air Force and Applicant for O.S.

permanent resident noza.

June L resigned. as chiet of Cab. Tes. AF, Red to

Is Manoe went into hiding...

tavartsked for help

1D 0f. Exfiltrated him ma/ shippine line

•Am. Tampa, Fla 27 Jul, 59 ;

Depriefed

in Tampa 1 Miami. Presented himself at

INS of, Miami, regrets asylum which

was granted.

W/CASSIST.

life 1 uniden left Cuba Any 59 for

rexico, then joined MOL a 24 8p7

59. 40l

MOL Left. US via New Orleano for RexCity

to obtain oU resident noa to

permit him to go nito business in

order. to earn living. INS wouldn't

allow him to return.

kopt: Solicato rebuttae Feet comment

fromben in that ClA said MDI mtendo to

untinue warlike Tactisithe is ablato

retum to the US.

- Cable 26 harch 60 to: Dir framriami-

HAVA 3140

See PDL as forlory bewildered, outcast.

Excommunicated by ODCOVE for involing

self w/ Batistiano:

sign.

Cajigas/

Pedrara.

"unity'. pledges but was clearly

SECRET

---

## Page 30

SECRET

in middle that circus, finally kissed off

by Pedraza as little boy playing mons

Can che cong song to Mii ca

Them it willin dale orders, and puse it

Believe PDL constitutionally incapable of

later.

Believe inclusin of PDL, WILd

be somewhat menace.

Meno for the record

U1 Feb60

Re: telephone report from Miami on Activities of

Frameisco Caji gas

Indicates PDL conferting / Cajies, who s planning

meeting in Managia wIretto Somora

-

Dispatch to chieWH Div fr: Miami WHD Rep,

17 Fes 60.

Re: summary of current

QUBIAS activities.

writer by

Patrick

Karly..

reeting 18 Jan.60 - ADBLAY Visited Nicaraguar

Emb w ranguer-sterling in wash re:

assistance of Nicaragua for military.

expedition against Castro

Having diffice a/INT re passport Disressed

by attitude of ODENVy, who peminded

wim they could arree him at any time

SECHET

---

## Page 31

SECRET

- Dispatch

Awthor talked to ODENY re: This matter

gOBIAS and rejecting scheme to meet

Somoza as arranged sy

Luis Arenas.

DoCussioN N/ ODBIÁS re: Couzada Constituciaol

Cubana (<<), @OBiAS one-man crasade

Not intended to be organization

[Karnly oharactizing ID as very naive, 'a

base in the woods" in thee mattes? Publis

hussing him; but "by no means a

total loss" ]

20 PS 60

WHD rep triam, Havana, Caracas

tr: Chief WAlD signed - Oliver G. Galbnd

Re: Meeting of F. Castro N/ Gustavo Machado

in Caracas as reptd by PDL.

Requests inteniew of PDL by tarne)

"in most minute detail"

..concema

his knowledge of contacts trachado

and castro

as reptd in Parade,

Lach Post 3 Fan 60

SEUMET

---

## Page 32

SECRET

=

Dispatch 18 faw ho

70: Chief WH DiV

• FROM: hiami WHD Rep:

Re: rept of contact w/ GOBIAS| 18Jan 60

Author - Parrich Karnley.

Info re: meltings beta Nunez Portuando

and PoL r: Whether or not Portrondo

TODBAS W/out politizal commitment

to Nunez Portiondo for Future

DUL discussions re: est. nor-profit 8og

to raise funds for actinities

Note: celorio, who who would be involued,

told AMBOAR about scheme, but used.

name Kleburg, suffesting comsine it

KLEBURG -LYKES -

was

stome how gettiny read in to thrt foop?

Dispatch 12 Jan 60

To Chief WH DiV

Fr Mani WH Rep. - signed Kannle!.

Re: contact W/EQDBIAS, 10 Jan 60;

Amory item:

- PDL consideing forming military: knitto.

infiltrate esa for action of Goi

- Dispute betN PDL, QD COVE, 9DCHAR gria

---

## Page 33

bad

PoL had protested I CHAND releat tripso

Buatemala w/ Segio Bruce and

Fiorini: Fiorini-questio whether he will

be admitted back to US ODENVY!

ready to throw the book" at him.

SECHCT

---

## Page 34

VOL ITS

"Political Action File

(Jan 1961-

SEGRET

- Memo for Ofc Legis: Counsel: I NOV 77

Ir: Raymond A Warren, Chief LA. Dir

Re: Allegation by Senior Cuban diplomat.

conceming role of cusan exiles in the

assass. 0f Preo. kennedy:

- no further info to supplement this ino

May hauc been refenineto either

reaso or Maros -

Nores assoc. w/ Sturgis; aricle of

R0 Sept. 71 re: horenz Allegations.

- remo for Of LC 3 NOVN

From. Chiet LA Di

Re: same as abore.

Rapss - fairly reliable source said senior

SECRET

---

## Page 35

SECRET

Cuban diplorat statoned abroad, made

changes in Late S8077 t0 his colleagues.

that casan exills such at former Cus. Air

Free officer Diaz Law (funs) = Othes

had bees involved in assass.

Division belieres bast for statement presumal.

article c 20 Sep Mini NY. -horenz

allegations

DO Document extract - 63 8 NOrT

Fine 663 Marcos DL Insted Frank Forini

to join raid against cuba 15 Jun using

moppy ounca

Garcia, salvador Garcia

IN form Dept ot Justice - 9/8/11

POB_ 1/8/26 Alien Teg# A 10 176-250.

SS# 261-542581, Havana Cuba

SPOUSE: carnet Izaguirre, Tania. DOM 12289

- Doc transter -x ref.-

17 TAN 69

Former head cuban rool. Af interested

making trip cuba to sine Russian Stip.

- DoC Xfer - x ref

- 26 Jan 64

Reptly working w/ Felipe Hda Santiago

SECRET

---

## Page 36

SECRET

ou projeered raid on Cuba which was to

onginate tron Miami area

Memo 10 Dir. FBI ATTN S. J. Papich HJAN64

FR: DD P.

Re: Acusationo mady by PDL.

- Rep from thit ayency reud info 1I Nor 63

from untested sonce concerning meeting

D+ FORDC in NYC on 3 NoV. 63 during

which PDIs made following imprompt

remarks:

- cained state Dept asked him to

woot w/ them one condition he male

no pub. statements accusing

Castro of being communist.

offered. post 01 thief of AF in Guat ly

z Frank Pende,

but reprod.

regrets

Bender Main offered mayorship

01 Marianao.

- Accused Kerredy of being Granumst

trime of being Communit

= Vaid loans had fight alde-JFK

admis would not help. faid

If the Of got were to five one rite

to the exiles, the exiles would be

wise to make sure it did not fire

back then the stock instead of thre

The

CECRET

---

## Page 37

SECRET

original disparew of above-

WHa crypts -

to chief-spee. Afars Staff

fri COs JMNANE

has handwritten note - For The record

Bender never neet cans, who was

handled by the PH. section of the

project at That time -

10/1/64

Signed

Same marke

- DOC X FiR X-Ref - 31 Ful 63

POL involved in abortive attemph in air

strike $ baflet raid on Hasana, Cusa

squelched by ODENTy.

Doc XFer # X Mt 12 June 68

6 June: 9,63 Marcos DL. invited Rorini to

join raid af. Cusa to take place weekend 1s

Funey virg hoppy owned in tedro?

raros... Others. join: Carlos barcia

Salvador Garcia Oler=, a ER official.

= Trace Regres 184pr. 63 freDe

A "Subject is dropped word prejudice:

SECRET

---

## Page 38

SECRET

Doc X fer $ X Ret 25 kar 63.

Draz owns 2 P.T. brats in tiami ara-

Re: rental by subp. of 35 tt speed

boat to anti-castro gorp.

-

Doc X/i & X ref - 23 Fes 62.

Subjeet: Movimento Recuperacion Revolucionario

de Cusa. MRRC.

Diaz kanz came to diami oftire w/ 2

companions, Reinaldo: Cruz y Blanco -

"SIMON" - Mor of 1220

Recently acquired & boats fern Hampto?

Roads Salvage Co of Tallahassee.

Other companion not id'd.)

Calle

11 Feb 61

.....

to : BEn

note

Efom: WAVE

Re: info that Lt Col "Oscar Diaz,

Chief

Pers of MILCOM Conspired to slow up

recruiting - discredit recruiting team

round Diaz manipulating recordo $

was sabotaging behind hILCoM and.

PBPRIMERS bacK

WAVE Comment:

Exidence turked up confirmed intrigue M

braz

SEGRET

---

## Page 39

SEGRET

- Doc Xter & * ref

05 GeT 62

Re: Anti- Castro Activities.

Info:

PoL spoke at meeting held at Bayton Park

9/29/62 - told Cubans idea of recruiting

cubans "dreamed up" by U.s. to keeptooling

the lisans Claimed Cisans had sen

tricked because they did not understand

what was foing on.

- Trace reguest

_30 Apr. 62

After discussion beter a rep. of this Agency €

the Dept of Army ow 28 May 62, the

Dept of Army has agreed, in ciew of

into contained in our Ageney files, to drop.

interest in Sabi.

- Biography PDL.

Revol. activities begun in 52 whew he started.

runnivy rifles into Cuba for Prio.. '53 exiled in

Miami until 55, and Started ferryin amod

castro...

58 appra drief of 26 Fuh

held until defection Je 59. Leater drop

Oct 59.

Not kuor to belor inany polit paray..

Formed am morement-Cec but was unsucces

Ful in obtaining support; considered by FRI

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SEGMET

§ other moderately liberal groups as including

some ex-Batista army officere.

Repid in April.

1960 Diaz.

had committed cce & self do group.

headed s

Marguez sterling. Mowerer,

subelguently CC merged w/ Aliazza de

Liberacion - amalgamation of several younger

groups as lusan epiles. Although considered

somewhat of as "hothead", does have considerable

stature as former Chief of AF and recently

he & some of his followers accepted into FRID..

Currenty - trember FRO

Endorsed by- Mr Braden, Mr Colligan of Feeport.

Salpher.

- Memo for: WH/4/Finance.

5 Fan. 62

Re: overdue Accts.

Pedro Draz Lanz - 8400 passed on 19Jan 61 ac

expense money for a prop tour takes of

hers CoNtE Agnero i Others... Plan Called for

use of Diaz Lands plane piloled by him Plan

changed tound too diftcult to set necessary

permits tor plane =

Finall, conte went

alone when IDL, balked at being Contes

shadow. Meantime, Diaz Lanz dabbling in

polities, appeared sefore senate committe

and succeaded in making himself useless do a

SECRET

---

## Page 41

SECHET

con

1140p00

Fax

49633

Elopm

Alers

7950

÷204

537

: propaganda asset.

signed-Stannard Short.

cable to IMWAVE from Dir 6 July 61.

request JMWAVE resiew reguirements for use

Pedro Diaz Lanz in boat ops, Feeling here

he indiscreet.

and would compromise

mission

DoA not initated.

Aldo vera note - iden w/Mir A180 Serapin vera

former undeground leader against Batista-

Held following positions w/ castro gort

- Head of Dept of Invest: of Cuban Rer. Police

- Cusan Army 5-3 secto

- Chief as tS of Cubaw Army

- 29 Apr 60 repto as one of ofticers in

charge of caching arma in various

intervened....

houses in Havana

- 2 Fun 60 repid replaced ao Shop.

General. of casaw Peroeh. Army,

not named to another post

- 21 sep 60 reptely trying 1o est. contact

W/ oppos. frps, but

in reality a

govi agent

Dispatch - To Chief: WHD IR- Chief of Bad,

IMWAVE

Re: "In of April " Movement

Organization to be presided over by

SEGRET

---

## Page 42

SECHET

"military junta" - not. one leader onh. ap

both members of debll army and Batista

Army

Diaz hawe does not hold a steady posina

because he corsides himself a "leader"

rather than a "soldier"

Believe info on secret meetty of fron

¡axed 10 Cuban gora Sy Aldo vera.

Intel: Rept 14 Ful 61 Rei Cuban counter.

revol. Base

Rept - 250 free Cuban troops a 7 aireraft

based on Isla de Mujeres off shore of

Quitana Roo Province, Mexico. Plan

military expedit - included:

PDL

Felpe vidal

Tentente ENU) Chinea

DIpath 31 May 61 TO Chief WHD Aron

chiet of Base VMWAVE.

re:

Frenzas tereas de Liberacion (FAD

All piloss & members of Air Force who were in

camps had a meeting durity which AMCLATHER

5 spoke i said they

had to hold an

election to appoint chief of AF I laterto

present it to AMBUD-1.

Arfuments enshed. Capt Perez did

SEARFT

---

## Page 43

SECRET

not afree w/ this type election. Lett

meeting of gop of me.

rikafana, tener aloo spoke Pese than

half persons left.

AMCLATTER -5 elected as Chief.

I Fist ellesson had siven votes to Diaz

lant, AnciATTERS and others. PDL

reptaly tried to take Over- Caused

rostance. Spelt the shown have

allowed Pot pilots to Lote in 18t

pay i Called for Und election. teld

FAL membes loyal to AMBOD 1

- Cable 23 May 61 to BRU from: IMTIDE.

Info- author met numerous cubans in

Miami-apparently pilot. Expressed

interest in perming w author to da TIDE]

ex, Garcia,

~ , Alberto.

to stay proficient in flying

" PDL

apparently creating disturbance. "by tryiy to

take over." Good stable group of men

"The hard core mill remain tojether as the

same unit and will be and are ready if

needed."

SECRET

---

## Page 44

SEENEI

Dispatch 18 May 61 to Chief WHD from dierof.

Base IMWAVE

Meeting of lubans in Bey front Parte,

riami

Anthor - Stanley R. Zamka

= has 61- Meeting in Baytont Park

organced by PDE ed aldo Cubes.

to attach North Amend late affair

Artime

Cable 1 May 61

To BeLl from IMWAVE -

7 individuals of Baz hans fre berry said

total of 81500 mo. by

AMIRON I

Gip not active & some have not picked.

up April paycheeks.

Request authonty drop group. from

effective 1 hay di

at discretin WAVE

- Memo for ANDIR/A

28 April 61

Re

conversation w/ Mr Foseph

Newman, NY Herald Tribune

Rept d 17 April 61

Author: Howard Hurt

Discussed THATE MalEs -

SECRET

---

## Page 45

SECRET

" parate tact from freson on an of the Res

Discussed several areas:

Ricardo forie - PDL-

These, men alleged Ua had fiven

to horiló boat

-demanded tutor op

aps, but each the CA-Chose

conore was followed. Their boat

was interfered with by Castro

funboats.

Hunt explained reasons for cIA

procedures - tinicase duplicate.

A compromise of effort; avoid

hostile monitoring.of.communicating

Coast Guard interference i provide

resoue en emergencies.

Artime

horie f Dear denounced Artime as

Cadro peneratin ajent. - Bolstered.

by newmans recollectin that

Luan OrTA was believed to have

said castro once claimed an

afent high in counter-revol.

Oireles

Hunt explained torie cast ont in

MAR power strygle; PDL

felt personal resentment, politial

vindictiveness. Animes futher was.

a communist, but segret

mimes more

SECRET

---

## Page 46

SEGRET

famative years spent / seonits.

Aureliant Sancher Arango=

re: attacks of aC by Sanchez and

Tos Figuens

Atino Diaz.

re; stony that CIA had not kept 119.

agreements a/Diaz, making it

imposs. for Biaz to land lus.

force in Cuta.

Hunt."S explained what Hall,

happened.

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo-outierer

re: allelations that renego & fre were

detained at MeAlien, TX to appeare

Barista 4 Trejill partisans

Hunt explained move to Tx decided

On by iNs be insure sately

of Outerrer; assess gip's conflicting

talls. Bip arrived too late for

inclusion in militan propan.

Revol. Council complaints

re: gen. theme hat O8 had not

lived up to its commitments to

provide air cover for landings

despite pre- invasion Promise by Pres

Kennedy to provide this um sells

Hunt explained IC looking for

scapegoat. Said Pres had made

SEGRET

---

## Page 47

SECRET

no such positive commitment to Re before the

invasion...

Pro. dispatched MssIs Beret

Schlesinger to MMO in NY prior to invasir

to say Pres. had said quite the contrary.

said. pesonal intennieur betw. Poes $ RC had

taken place on 19 $ 20 April, in fact.

As to lack lack of protective air cover, H4

cited failure of RCS B-26s to eliminate

Castro air forces during 15 APr. Strike. HH.

"mure" as to fault for lack of second

mop-up strike.

Said bads in Guate-

mala becomily untenable - open la

oppos: congress. inspection by 18 Mpr.-

Newman - declared - realization That it

wasnt sabotage by communist afeats -

"We sabotaged crisselves!"-

-

newman expressed interst in HIt

identity. Conceded hes had were

heard

"Eduardo".

SECHET

---

## Page 48

SEGNCT

Dispatch 25 March 61 - T0 Chilt WH Dir from

Chief of base- Havana.

re: Anti-PRD activibls of Carlos PRIO

Socarras-

Brio held meeting ? Mar 61 at Everglades

Hotel, Liami, Ha. Made auti-PRD

statements to press

Men who had been planning action w

PDL, Jett him, joined Prio, since PDL

lacked resources.

os

Dispatch 3 Mar 61 to Chiet of Bace, IMWAVE,

fr. chief; WHD

Mancos D.L: anticipating anest for anti.com.

actintilo, made advance preparationo to

have one of his napan contact. ODIBEX

ofe..

Lt. Douglas Attle Leth bridge Aguilera,

FAR ofer, of one of These reps.

Mares stated that Lethbridge trying to

get names of Russian NKVD acuts in CuSa

I when he has penetrated com ors. in Cuba

he will disclose Their plans to see me."

- Doe Xfer $ CHOsS- reF- 28 Fue. 63

Invowed in

poss. aircraft bomb and

leaflet raia on Habana Cusa to taki

place on 28 fah, 63.

SECRET

---

## Page 49

SECHET

Memo of meeting held at home of

Juan Carlos Nemesto Rodrigner].

2-26-61

PDL, Juan Caros, Com. Gonzales met,

decided Diaz Lanz start out for

Cusa. Believe PIL. good name ut

help get Amer, assisfance.

PiL expressed bitkness toward

ERD and Artime.

Cable - 17 Feb 61

tO BEL fr. WAVE

Neither PDL nor AMNORM -I recollect

kerowing Enrigue Molina Rivera AKA

Arturo Morales Y Rodriguez

- Cable 10 Feb 61

TO IMWAVE fI. BEAL

PDL passed 5460 advance by Has during

trip RHETAL

WAVE showed obtain

accounting.

cable.

3 FeD 61

10: JMW AVE

FR: BELL

4 Tes. As result inability obtain sisas

SECRET

---

## Page 50

-

SEGRET

w/ permission for plane, tour to be made wore

Or both via commerciae flights. Fion plans

coringent alleged AMDIP 1j ofe to @DBL

make his replacement for LITAINT- Lin

[AMIRON ORG. TAMCORE I reportS

tentatively opered post as prime minish

by AMDiPT, but would

make tour regardless

Subis will call choaden for contaet

instructions WAVE Co When assistance

needed

Routing & Record sheet -, Feb GI.

NOto: Re : PDL

Dias Laus would cause increased

morale problems at MADD

Possibly could use uni lateall

"No interlot to PMODS"".

Memo IFes 61 for WH/4/PH. /AM

Re: PDL:

...

Met w/ Midiael M. Mane, (W4/4/prop).

to ask it he could be pilet in FRD Air

Force.

Author recommends PDL would aid

greatly in creaty esprit de corps

and discipline

SEBRET

---

## Page 51

SEGNET

Dispatch 20 Fan 61.

To Chief WHD from Chief of Base TWINE

Re: Frank Fiorini-comments se: alleged

plans of KUBARA

On 4 Jan bl Mr. Joseph A. Tortier,

Superiting- Customa Agent in Miami, sent

atrachment A to local chief of KuruMp!

who in turn sent it to IMWAVE

Inasmuch as the content of Altach

A appears to implicate PDL in an

infavorable manne, CRABANAC E

investfated the case & susmitted a

memo cared Itan 61, AHtach B

Chief of Base apress w/ conclusio

in Para 7 of AttaCh B.

interriewed sturgis on Dec 30, 1960 at

his residence

20s0 SW 60T Court

Miami, Fla

Han MCDonald, close assoc of

Suzis, also present Fiorini said B2S.

scized by Customs, used for baflet trop

on Havana, -

isreturned to him atter

payment of charges - 82,800.00. rone

was turn shed by THUBARE!.

ЗEGNET

---

## Page 52

SECRET

he had turned over the airplane for use ba

PDL. DoL was at aircraft almost every day-

preparing plan for good will tour" of

central Ames countrilo, to se sanchined

Ly KU BARK.

writer told Fiorin he was prob. being

duped- siang open talk that US. suppoting

group-always w/out foundation

daquestions tonini said he

spoke to KUBARKlafent

by? The name of "Barker".

: 01 4420NN

Office contacted DDL for cooperatio.

PoL was adised Fiorini was internewed

earlier That day- PDL expressed

concen that riolini might get involved

in way that would impair plane of

anti-choto promps.

Office maning report secause cose talk"

by torini might have adverse effects.

Fill had earlier interciewed Fiorin,

presumably re: Similar 41008, talk"

-Attachment B- 9 fan 61.

- Alleged 12,800 payment i presumed to be

part of money firen 10.

PDL by Saralegui.

as personal loan

SEGRET

---

## Page 53

SEGHET

2. POL, preparing hit aireratt for the heidlo de

verdad and instructions given by him to

ainerate tetniciano induding Doss. use of

natt flage on nose of aircraps

would

confirm Diaz intendes to visit # of

countries:

3. Barker says he met Fiorini on ply se

oceation w a froup of people of has

never seis him seme on since

Meged address of burks pronidel

by Danzi not corect..

Fiorini has lost confidence of PDL S

has been treating i such people as

Pasco in an attempt to involve

hindelt in antic Castro actinty.

Note PDL expressed Concern Fiorini

"night get involved..

I PDe alleges he $ his people

-hounded

by federal ayents whote interest in

peans.. has been piqued. oy. plane

overhauling activities..." that These

federal officials asked leading?

provocative guestions.

6.

.entire.

Exec. Come of ERD., as well as

---

## Page 54

SECRET

propaganda commission, hilly acguainted

fore, is reparing plans for flagst and tike

outside

That immed. jap

2. However, a review of Custons repf, together

w above, would indicate that "the

essential element of plausible denial

still remains:

-Cable 10 Fan 61_

To Bell from WAVE

Following: Chron. applices do prepatory actions

for.

PDL trip -

select fligkt tip party; obtain unsai

landing permits; establish flight muting

Lift

gov afency restrictimo on PDL and

aircraft. FRD send letter of.

instruction to FRD delegatione.

in host

countries outlining advance prepara

tens necessar-f. Special egripnt

for plane -

PDL seygest tape

recordings be made at local stops for

mailing back and use on swan

Expect concrete team dunny we of

9 Jan..

PoL will handcarry

passports...

"and fliglito documentsto

Washington, obtain was $ landizy

permits & submit resets to

SECHET

---

## Page 55

SEGNAT

Choaden Who to finalize flaglet roule.

Have toed QDBAI aim a 15 faw Fake.

tho realize Thit prob. optimistic:

CHET

---

