# 180-10143-10153

## Page 1

180-10143-10153

Box 28

Faldle 13

#4

Queations for Thomas B. Casaven

I.

Employment

A Present postion-seted a still W/CIA?

B. Poution at time of adanation

Mature of prution, ses possibilities

nature of cover

sommusication hetween dinell and?

- Shitter communications

- Use of

c. Pretion puin to aeregnment

DATES

Cricket ou function il

- Rescuption of conposesents wither 5R Biasel

Nature of his raptralites as tief of 5R6

DATES

The was the statioied?

That was nature of work at this particular station? I

What was his position tele?

Khat were his rapinablutter in that prection?

Did Station lave any avolveneat w/U-2 polan?

What tends of operations did the statior fonduct?

киівраво. wa out o

lagainst the U155R?

What was the relatindip betures the CAl station feed the

U-2

Here ary specations Мин i lonjURetIon With the military?

H've ill aware of these persons was were multary nellgence

personnel?

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

180-10143-10153

---

## Page 2

p.2

II. 435-173-4

A. Explain uncumstances suounding the witting of this meres -

writs in response to stme kind of matcettons for

All CIA persisel to report any salate information regarding

LHo I was it spontadous on his part?

B. love sheet.

Whe wad Robut b. Kampell? J

Explain

C. 1125/631 Carasia) memo

edentify Nalta P. Hattiger; Wty was meas witter to din?

dentify/REDWOOD. J

What is the distenetion beturer the

o when hHo was in route to 1.5.? Loes this mush wol when

* Cavni says ile left.

assignment?]

Ideatify [ КИПИТ. ]

Khat wee "He suitable charkets"?

here

I 50, y walek comptreates

He suck persons ever dibrufed in toute from USSR

"prestiny of interers Osweld? How was thes disest

resolved?

---

## Page 3

p. 3

Paragraph. 2.

STATE OPT.

edentify BACID. I

WIFE

What kind of fisation had laden hered conding hiD?

What did he ness by oswalds "unecual Selavia'

Is regard Is tiling his subracates not to puch too lack, What

did he meas?.

Whe were the subordenetes to whom be wis repellag?

Why was

of paitcla interest?

Was

a relaturly. какноин лиа?

Has liai aware of Be interce of as intlie training sched

[Paragraph. I 3.

dutie de very wit d?

Way does memo state te was phasing out of KUDOVE".

ths лр to plasing Hit of HAS Or but of DD altogethe?)

Addendum.

Idest yKUDESK.

What WasT ALOCEAN 3 case?

Explainl

Who ran it?

program.

What lied of uprimation we they suking?

How ded this deffer fion lases in which bith would cretact (sies

What ded te mean by the Howry story"? I sts unlikely that its

a typo. in light of the fact that the name Oswald already appears

turee before is that same senterce.I

---

## Page 4

p. 4

II. Has lace eve estated shy anyone in the Agery corny,

hus reprovald puer interest in hill as expressed in the mere

hive me we contacted dy anyhe firm the M.I. H as

ster uvestigative tody conning the u. tataired in the mers?

II. Subequent to this our decons as refereed 12435-173-4,

did lavas here tea that Dswuld Lad wee dees contatted dy

nyone it me the Agery?

would ie, in any of his prettine, have knows if tHO was or

lad wer been as ageat of the CIA a aay the intellegence organation?

Who, in what dursess, would have had alre to the type of

иро.?

How would Atte

адену anocation the udusted, if at all, In a pellons

file?

would a dol file ideate sperational use? How?

I. 01 opering sleet.

Has de awe, is is poutin as thill of

Oswald excited? If so, did the lave a lefy

that a 201 pile on

Mestify At unde "the decifiation

that type of po. us generally put in the entegory?

Identify sunders a Section III If opering form.

Nas!" O4"S routeadly weed to denote the HISSR?

Has does the must [33/" represent?

thy would" I/SI6" And "S" is uried Hit?

Wky would ISIt have spened the file on Oswald?

Kly wouldit the se durcion have opened a file on LAD upon

basing of his plence in the USSR?

WHAT DOES

ESTRICTED FILE REFERT

NOT PERMANENT CHARGE, TO WHO

---

