# 180-10140-10268

## Page 1

180-10140-10268

?? 1.9.

DiME. B:RITHMAITE LUNRE, CALE.

MiMISTCANëM1.IO0O.CONN.

MARIUEL LA DIVINE, CHIIO

CHASTR-МОнт Віл

MAMOLO S, LAWYEI, MISH.

(202) 221:024

Seleci Committee or Sissassinatics

CrE. Joure of Hopresentatises

2331 HOUST ORUSE DUiLDING, ANIECE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20513

CALMS NO OBIECTIONTO

DECLASSINCATION ANDOR

FELEASE OF JHIS DOCUMENT

April 5. 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

IF45455

Dear MI. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select

Cormittee on Assassinations requests access to aii files and

file referencas

pertaining to the following indiriduals:

1) Edward Jay Epstein

2) Marvin Kantor

3) [Charlotte Bustos

4) Annie Goodpasture.

In addition, please provide the Committee with access to

the following information:

5)

Any and all investigative reports prayared by e.

Howard Hunt pertaining to the John f. Kennedy assas

sination.

(These reports were not necessarily pre-

pared during the

period of Mr. Hunt's employment

with the CIA).

6)

The file that

was prepared by the CIA in reference to

E. Howard Hunt's alleged Watergate-zelated activities.

The Committee previously requested access to all CIA files

pertaining to E. Hovard Hunt in its letter to you of January 6,

However, Roger Gabriclson, of your staff,.

that the particular requests identified above, be put in writing.

The Comnittee would also appreciate a response fion

tha

Cis rogarding the following mattors:

004567

188-10140-0960

---

## Page 2

ric. Patrick Carpentier

April 5, 1978

Page 2

The CIA's written statement replying io the Committea's

request of february 21,

1978 for an axplanation of the

criteria. that governed

the opening of à 201 file dur-

ing the years 1958-64 was not responsive to our inquiry

because the CIA's written statement did not focus on the

relevant time period.

Accordingly, I am renewing our

request of February 21, 1978.

In the avant that there

vere no criteria governing the opening of such files

during that period, the Committee would appreciate a

written statement indicating that this was the case.

8) CIA document #563-810 indicates that there are 37 docu-

ments that should be in. Lee Harvey Oscald's 201 file

but which are missing fron the file.

Furthermore,

document also indicates that there should be a machine

listing of these documents attached as part of document

#563-310, but no such listing appears

in the file.

Select. Committee on Assassinations requests thai th

CIA provide a listing of

such documents as well as a

vritten explanation of where those documents are 10-

caced and

why they ao not appaar in oswald's 201 file.

Pursuant to my jetter of Decenber 21, 1017, I vould like

to note that the document referred to ir this paragraph

is a classified docunent.

after having reviewed both the documents contained in

the CIA's files on Priscilla. Johnson Mortillan and the

materials that vere independently made available to her

under the Privacy Act,

it is apparent that the files

which were made available to the commitice did not in-

clude HTLINGUAL materials.

As the Committee has

already requested ali information contained in your

on the individuals who are the subjects of our

requests, please review the files that you have pre-

viously made available to us for the purpose of ensur-

ing that all of the information pertaining

individuals involved has, in fact, been provided.

the period 1963 through February

Station for that period. The Cormittee requests that the CIA

---

## Page 3

Mr. Patrick Carpenties

April

5, 1978

Page 3

either make these persons available for our

staff to interview

or provide their last known address so that we can contact thein

directly.

Thank you for your continuing cooperation.

Sincerely,

M. Nobit Blatie

G. Robert Blaker

Chief Counsei and Difestor

GRB : bwa

---

