# 180-10140-10182

## Page 1

180-10140-1013

1.0U15 ETCARE, OHIO, CHAINMAN

SARANEL L. DIViNE, OHIO

VASTER EARNERS PACE. CALF.

STEWART W. BAG.KLiNEY, CONN.

CHARLES THOME, NIHH.

ENTERTAIN S. DODO, CONN.

HAROLO 3, SAWYER, MICH.

23535/C-

HEUEAT I, LOGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Soded Committee on Assnssinations

WE. House of Sieprescitaliues

9331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX?

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Stepanares

a notes:

copy"

August 28, 1978

Present at 290u 78

walls

Wo-SE

Dale Strip tarr-S E

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Chief Coordinator, HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency .

Washington, D. C. 20505

Brel

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

call Treetented

Jack sulleran - os

In accordance with Professor Blakey's discussion

with you last week, and in keeping with the timetable

proposed at that time, the following interrogatories

are submitted for your consideration.

Tasteria

9AM meete

on 2 gaug

197

Cl 3

iosi

1. Enumerate the name of any drug given to

Nosenko and the date it was

administered

including those given for "therapeutic" pur-

poses - from January 1964 to 1968.

OS

2.

Describe in detail Nosenko's

living condi-

tions from April 4, 1964 through 1968.

The

description should

include, but not be limited

to the following:

a.

where he lived

b.

the degree to which his movements

were restricted

C.

d.

his contact with other people

his access to radio, television and

reading materials such as newspapers

and books

e.

the degree to which his actions were

"observed"

aniS

f.

restrictions with regard to his food

intake

3. Define Nosenko's present and past employment

arrangements with the central Intelligence Agency.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

03346-

140-10182

---

## Page 2

Mr.

Scott Breckinridge

Page 2

Include:

a .

b.

C .

itemized accounting of all compensation

them ato

the dates and nature of his employment

the services rendered by Nosenko

received by Nosenko

d.

an account of the roles of Richard Helms

and John McCone in authorizing Nosenko's

employment and compensation arrangements

with the CIA

$f/c1/25

4.

On what dates and for how long was Nosenko

questioned by the CIA about Lee Harvey Oswald

from 1964 to present.

When Nosenko was questioned by the CIA about

due in cite Harvey Orla, who did the questioning.

6.

What background, if any, did the interrogator

SE

C I.

have in interrogations. - What knowledge did the

interrogator have with respect to Oswald's back-

ground.

+ 3

7.

On the dates that Nosenko was questioned about

Oswald does there now exist or did there ever exist:

a. a tape of the questions asked and Nosenko's

answers

b. a transcript of the questions asked and

Nosenko's answers

C.

a summary of the questions asked and

Nosenko's

answers

8.

What criteria, if any, was used to determine:

a.

what subjects to question Nosenko about

b. how much time to devote to each subject

9.

What significance - with respect to possible

foreign involvement in the assassination as well

as to the issue of

Nosenko's bonafides

_- did

the CIA

attach during the years 1961-1968

to NO-

senko's statements about Oswald?

10. What significance - with

respect to possible

foreign

involvement in the

assassination as well

as to the issue of Nosenko's bonafides - does

the CIA

attach today to Nosenko's statements

about Oswald?

1: "

---

## Page 3

. Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Page 3

cils!,

this lei will

pet tess'

0S

11.

If the answer to question 9 is different

from the response to question 10, when did the

change occur and why?

12. What was the CIA's position from 1964 to

1968 on the question of whether Nosenko is bonafide?

13. What is the CIA's position today on the

question of whether Nosenko is bonafide?

If the answer to question 12 is different

from the response to question 13, when did the

change occur and why? .

What was the CIA's position from 1964 to

1968 on whether Nosenko was telling the truth in

the statements he made to the CIA about Oswald?

16. What is the CIA's position today as to whether

Nosenko was telling the truth in the statements he

made to the CIA about Oswald?

17. If the answer to question 15 is different from

the response to question 16, when did the change

occur and why?

18. Why were three polygraph tests given to Nosenko?

19.

What is the CIA's position with regard to the

validity of each of the three polygraph tests ad-

ministered to Nosenko? .

Why was Nosenko asked numerous questions per-

taining to Oswald on his 1966 polygraph test and

only asked two questions about Oswald on his 1958

test?

Who authorized Bruce Solie to reinvestigate

Nosenko's bonafides?

22.

1968?

Why was Nosenko's bonafides reinvestigated in

Did either the fBI or the CIA have primary re-

sponsibility for investigating Nosenko's

statements

---

## Page 4

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Page 4

cinpe.ui.s

about Oswald? If neither had primary responsibility,

orpivas there any division of responsibility?

What communication, if any, existed between the

FBI and CIA with respect to evaluating and/or in-

vestigating Nosenko's statements about Oswald?

(d xile

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

Д!.

Robert Blake

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel

and Director

GRB : kkx

Ther it i 606' hos.

---

