# 180-10145-10436

## Page 1

180-10145-10436

SONFIDENTIAL

Classification:

(This form is to be used for material extracte"

from ClA-controlied documents.)

File title: BookI tIme: +1554675515

61 What from dea to pulle go the

with the to 731190th?

Serging it batte Continie, engr

at to rapan made te

representative. The field resented

state mallerg tim pre

inthe fell: +6797111262091

T FBI. 5ohtt5 tai

Classification:

SONFIDENTIAL

ORIGINALCHEY

11112220

02303

O DECL REYWON LDECAY

5ºN0 578537

180-10145-10436

---

## Page 2

Classitication:

COMHIDENTIAL

(This form is to-be used- for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

C8l had neaten an in pete.

SectionII

En addition to perfer aste

volor:

18-

cuzenship I bE 5049"

(IN 66787)

Siton in Mi

toase dar

Classitication

sevent

Fuel

CONFDENTIAN

Classied by detai2 721

---

## Page 3

20

Classification:

CONFIDENTIAL

(This form is to be used-for material extracted ...

from ClA- controlled documents.)

UnirEr state leades in the costa

Ereas to Finel CAstle cho made

Brazilian Entamo, in Marano

{LANE- (7N67394)

• CONFIDENTIAL

Classification:

11112722

•Classied by derivaion A Me

---

## Page 4

Classification:

CONFIDENIAL

hunch sit

From:

To i c/uk

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

13 Dec63

ONHA- 87371

FolA 395-745

1. attaches to Heriqunto unfo are fillmen.

a. CAH/63/195, dater 3 Dui63, resiet 9

Jane 196%. "Cs will be noted, thei

chach with the Holland Amrica bene

worge and chied, fun Potts dan t

New You

(ase parties par)

Attastiant

3-12-63

CAH/63/795

11112723

sas: LHotwife

ulgest and hi wife we slate a fallen

PRIGINAL CLBY _ 037.30

CONCIDENTIAO DECLY REVWON 7 DEC 34

Classification:

EXIBYND & YRS BY.

REASON

Patred by derivation 3 d 3

---

## Page 5

Classification:

CONFIDENTIAL

-This-form-is to-be-used-for material-extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

2) Om 3 June 1962 Mo, Dawala entered the

Nethelands a Oldengal Station

presumed accompanied by he herbend

and daughts fume

3) On 45m 196:

the Three depenter (z 12

municaten con received fom trefound

Blie See abot pul

"De Telegrap" q'30 Momba, 563,

1977 TFR. Introduction 35

11112724

"The facts that the isc cooles

the posabel a Cuban adoreten.

that it cos not is a imple 11-

snide bets accept iner

ra fa prevalent

супівний тіне

assfication.

to wines come

CONFIOENTIAL

Classified by derivation

SAMe

---

## Page 6

Classification:

(This-form-is-to- be used-for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Tas3, P8

Stations

intelligence developments

out ammencation !

wout ams

lent, otta itan tre arioins from

event, intelligeno avasts and lam

serie verone quis to relis

that if we get it n thei

limited repating on the suggest

Nes there relevant a onge

jeneil caterit, 2

Classification:

11112725

CONFIDENTIAL

Classified by derivation:

AMe

---

## Page 7

Classification:

CONFIDENTIAL

(This-form- is to be used for material extracted...

from ClA-controlled documents.)

"This dis not mean that ous asset

It fresite attits in thes.

ano the 556 Final Report attempts

I do at the bottom y page 58.

11112726

CONFIDENTIAL

Classification:

-Classified by derivatio

SAMe

---

## Page 8

CONFDENTIAL

Classification:

(This form- is to be-used-for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

23 Jam1886

Memo for: Special ASStto DDO

Refrence: CiA ReviaN Staff manorante

78-0110 dares 20Jaw.1976

Reguesting Informationon

Williem 5 2оge балют

1. 1e Dombota Collectors Dirin (DID).

The pile sins the sachet wasa

anny the New Orlean DeD Pesite

affee tom 1948 to 1955 deers

ign send he peredes frie

infinitina data duric

New Ordero offra betwo 1955 and

1961 what at vans to, he

ramanhully 05002

211

A MTA

10 190%

CONSINEN

Remat castied by delibe?

---

