# 180-10140-10072

## Page 1

180-10140-10072|

PANAME BRAT-CAITE DURNE, CUP.

CHRISTO TEN 1. 0000, C014

• FLOYD I FITHIAM, INO

ROBEAT W. LOCAT, PA.

STEWART I.1 :+1146T, COMM

CHAHLES THE HEAR

(202) 225-4524

Select: onmittee oi. assassinations

U.S. Inause of Representatibes

3J31 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

ViASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 2, 1978

Boxb

FIO

#26

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circumstances

surrounding the death of President Kennedy, the Select Committee

on Assassinations requests access to all files and index refer-

ences pertaining to the following individuals:

1)

MAURICE BISHOP, aka JOHN BISHOP, JIM BISHOP, and FNU

FIRGAULT.

This name is most likely an alias and

• this

individual's true name is not known to the Committee.

Bishop was working in anti-Castro operations in the

early 1960s.

He was also allegedly involved in a plot

to assassinate Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971 with An-.

tonio Veciana and Luis Posada.

2)

WIROGUE - CIA agent involved in the ZRRIFLE program.

Further identifying information on the following individuals

will be given orally, pursuant to an agreement between Bob Genzman

of our staff and Roger Gabrielson of your staff.

3)

GEORGE BREEN

4)

pily

5) WILLIAM V. BROE

6) JIM DELANEY ..

7)

JERRY FOX"

8)

10)

P) CHESTER ITO?-

ELWOOD D. (Pete) MARTIN

140-10072

---

## Page 2

Mr. Patrick Carpontier

March 2, 1978

Page 2

21)

12)

FREDERICK RANDALI, -

13) JACK RANDALI.

md...

3 Mar

frao+ 680120-254415

14) KAN TAKAI

?

(15) DORIS WATANABE

R6) LARRY NATANABE

17) (JIM WInDS -

18) [LOUISE WOODS]

19). PETE WHEELER

= 1909-Mon. 27 Ma.?

20)

SHIzUO YAMADA

Whether or not any of the individuals listed below had

any relationship with the CIA, they may believe that actions

they have taken were at the direction of responsible persons

in the Central Intelligence Agency. Accordingly, in order

for

the Select Committee to obtain truthful statements and ulti-

mately testimony from these individuals, it would be most use-

ful for the Committee to have a letter from your office re-

leasing these persons of any obligations of secrecy they may

have made to the CIA, or to anyone whom these individuals may

believe was affiliated with the CIA.

Anne Goodpasture

Robert hilli

Robert Shaw.

•robert LambernardL

11lllam Bright

Allen White vI

Ricard Helms

James Angelton?

Raymond Rocca

E. Howard Hunt

Thomas Karamessines

Jack Whitten

Cinar totte Riatory

---

## Page 3

ir. Patrick C. -pentier

March 2, 1978

Page 3

Joseph Burkholder Smith -

Rudy Bruno

(Charles Flick

irthur Doolsy

Wesley J. Leibeler

Howard P. Willins

W. David Slawson

WIlliam Coleman

Samuel Stern

George Frederick Munro

Floryan Randolph Karty

Oliver N. Primack

Finally, this letter serves as written confirmation of

an oral. request by staff researcher Dan Hardway for:

1)

Originals of any existing surveillance production|

and logs of ary operations directed at the Soviet

and

Cuban Embassies for the period of 9/26/63 to

to 10/3/63, in Mexico City.

2) Any 201 files pertaining to FNU

Nunez Portuondo.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

S. Notest Bleak

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: jhd

---

