# 180-10144-10022

## Page 1

180-10144-10022

5/15/78

Version.

Interrogation giden to Warren Commision BY

Mexican Goverdiner

On November 23,1963, one day. ofte the assaisintin

7. john 7. Kevinedy, the Centel tutellyer agenay'... Meric

Ct. Headquarters suggested to Hesican... ffrels that they arrest

Agluca Jerado. De. Duan. ( Mexi 7029, to ted

the DiRECtOR

fficoils, Nov. 23,1963 ;

i Note to Sain Cleania, Mounder 83, 02) mair co, inti

ashed that... Sylvca Tirals de Duan be held in

she gave the Mesican Dient all Thing One

The Mean grammat be it Shin fine de Dwar

the pame daty Captau teraid tahing Barren, airistant

Wireter if the tabel Security police intensgeted her. at 6:00 p.m

that evening. (CE 2121, 35). Ens. swan stated that she boro the

monsie the te desting to the mail there unths gin. to

the erassiation of the I Knely on teh yo the deach f

Waiismen. Olivere, Who had beere occupying that postem? (ited p.37

She statere that in pl late September on early. Cctober f1963.

appeal at the came colt

haich. amican, by the name f the Hary Daald, Noplied for an it's

visa to Russia It Cut to cell puantal viduce that be he

beese... in Risia for thee years, that he was missed to a Russian

Ordeaus pralled Fair Play In Cala", CO swald stersed I Shis Divan

Central Intelligence Agency

has no Objection to Release

Dates AS SANITIZED

2003

180-10144-10022

---

## Page 2

5/15/18

C that his miss applicatin. should te sccepted as he was a friend

(abad p.35)

I the Chan. Revoltin. Slees Dean statel that them!

had Oswall

( chal A 10)

with. her dates, she fills out the approgate appliestion. IO swall

ther. left. and returned in the afterme with the peccusany

pentage is a sid that at that this stewing her.

duties, she telephoned thi Russian Consulate because f her intuist

Calad p.

in faultating the haulling f the Ruisian iss fr the Hawey Oswall

The Remin enlay Ill in that shee pot i i l fee.

appetimetely foir menths in fireising the case; which arenged. the

Haung Orwald since, according to his statements, he was in a great.

hurry: to obtain visas to travel to puise: He insisted on his right

to do it in we of his badgined logey,

-aud his actinties. on.

behalf f the Chan novement, (hil p.39) When O swald inderstore

that it was not pissble I you time a tilaw isa witchn lis previnedy.

(he 3)

staining a Risian iss, he became asterily angry, We this print, lis...

susan state che called Cal Gee, ha, at tet In was in his ...

rate: ffice foreongaried by his,

Just o his fue and agent wad saull in lighl dig agulat

Mr ayere tle bite that a guan the him, inched funding the calin

Rulin, did it hare I had 4. O sill it that jrent state that thee bad it

---

## Page 3

5/05/78

0

basis. for regusting his wise wich ingeng, one, that lie nt to storest

any are on, the end one lie one toes

(bad p.)

Me. Duan stated that

a spite of the argument she gave Oswall i grise. f paper with her name

e enlat phone mates on it, cited to) the has intell the handling of has..

plating

ane-application by sending t to the bar Himstry of Foreign, from which a rasly...

Wa Dman stated that she loes not recall whither Orall entrequatly cathed here.

on the Consente phone winter which she hal given him Clad ro, l Duran

tate that all the conversations that. she mad lusit Oyare hal with O swall.

the in the English danguage pence Oswald lid it yen aug sarish I had p t)...

how fully, she stated that yu seeny the haney downed's platingh in the

Let the samanted as the thing sed y

Aglia Duran as reliasid Nor, 24,143 and rearrested

1963. when the

Missions. gracisement fount that Sylvia pas

tempting to leave Metics for Han

C Nor 29,1943, Mexi 7104 CIA # 482j Calle from

i Staturn Is Headgers,

Nor 27,1983, Meer Hak, CHAd 412) Devery the interogston she membed

Dawald gefely and desied he more a glasses. (Calli fume Melis

---

## Page 4

Original Signed Statement of Syluia Duran Intereogation 81

Headin

Syluca. Ducan was arrestch on hr 23.. and intergated

=t 6:00 p.m.. (see previous section) at. that time shes pertinent statemesits

but the assarsinatin and Ice Harry Oswall were prither doin

ust toon laining about the assassination she and her hushand

gecslatch that Kennedy-may have beer assaisinted for pacial peasons

Where she become aware that the assaises was Lee Harvey Oswald,

de ascatained that it was the same mane that about two merchs

acher had been to the Cuban Consulate to policit as intransit

sai to pussie, having then his name from the squeal

docismentation he gresented: he was massed to a Russian woman

and belonged to the Hair Play In Cade Committer i she pheched.

the data in the Consolate aschines and then she become stilam

that it was the pame pedidual, who was blonde, short, dressed...

inelegantly and arties face timed ed when angry, this reso was.

lenied because, the Consul told him, that to obtain ore from the

Consulate, Since attaining a mess fume the sits tork forus notch.

and Oswald had to leave Metics pron, he became epeited, and stan

had to call the Gusul who had air argument with hive

---

## Page 5

I she only and she could give orade was se ationg that

he go. to the soviet Consul, and also calling. the person in charge.

f the. ffice. The smieet ffecial toll her that they wall have to.

nault Noser, which mll-lake four months, That flenon, 'e tog

and retused to phe Cuban Comante and dylia Ducan confirmed

that he call ady joe a cale in pe he reined a Recion ins

she of gave Osuld hei name and business phone seanher but sever

pass him her alteis because she had his recoon to give it to him.

C she lnew that phoning the Gnanet was not one f her

dites and that if ahe did no she ded it only to chilp oswald.

She go to her, love nimber outy decous he somed have to.

call subequently to check whether he had obtarned a visa. He

naves called bust I Blind Menis re I Haig Ould I Syla Duran,.

Rovember 26,1963, CIA #473.)

Sylvia Duan was.

c. 27(2).

NOT ATE THAT CIEAR IS IT,

1163 when the merican government fort that sylria wa

attempting to leave Mexico for Havana l Cable fine Nefico Headguanters to

Neatzioniters., Ur 27,1963, Wexi 7167, CIA#482 ; Celle feme Mesecan

Statem to Heatgiantes, No. 27, 1943, Mi 2101, CiA * 493) During -the

interestini she remembered Orned onferely and denied he wre

---

## Page 6

1963, Wei 7364, CIA No: 557-558) Otherwise though there was not

Itton to her originad story (bed).

---

## Page 7

ON ATI

-the explanatioNs. "OR" Tha

MEXiCAN GOVErNMENTECOuld hAVE

AdiffereNt StATEMENT, Or moRE

EXTENSIVE NotES.

The foelowising...

mateual friend in the Warren Conneser

set 212 was wist in the slin grenment i t i gein

he Ma Duran stated that she became the scretary to the consul three.

concho prior to the assaisinatin. I tha 7i Kennedy due to - the death f

laricainen Oliari, uho had been occupging the josition EWal p:377.

planation; Mis Dear did not make this stament in her segred affidanet.

i the hetan greeneute could easily have discerned the alve because

Cat actually rened.

Osuald presented widered that he hard beer in funsia for three yeois.

Explanation: althugh Mes Ducas did not state this are he segred statement

the mexicans cult attabate it to hes because it appead on Oswald's

iban visa application Insert [See attichs)

1. Oswald stressed to sylica Duan that his visa apolo in

chill be accepted as he was a friend f the Cuban Rotation, Leted p.3?

yplanation: It is pissible that after ee Marsey Oswald stateh that he

about getting a tes

velonnged... to the "Fair Play for Cabs Committer" aid there agned that

the necian grierent couch have dissened that be shed fastelly

stated. that his visa application: should he accepted as he was a

-friend f the Cuban Revolution.

---

## Page 8

Also, in a cable from the slaves City Statin to Hendgatte

or: No. 23, Chief f Statin Winston Seill intes That Echorns Toll

hine that Sylves Decan steted. That See Harvey O wald shoved her

a baited states gargent shooting a long string in USSR, I calle shuaf. &

Statini: to Helguätes, Kou 23,1963, Maki 7046, CiA No. 424; Chiondazy, &

June Goolgastero, estry rio. 59, No: 23, 1963, CIA No. 638)

---

## Page 9

Oswald there lift and petuined in the afternoon swith the

wessary photoginghs; (ibid p.39).

planation: The Select Committee or Assassinations can not fellittan

they. this statiment is attubnted to ho Deran if nowher in he ...

iquel statement she mentines photogughs. The only constering.

with the House Solect Cumittic ne Assarsmal

tel that Oswall did not bung a ghatigugh on his fust vesit

C to the Clan comanlate and this was freed to rites the

llowing niorsing with one: (HSCAint Ssibi treve,

Oswall insisted on hea regit to obtai a visa in vic a

his backgroud, loyalty and his actretes on behaef f the-

iban mosement: Libil p 39)

splanation: See number thric

No Duan stated the thed called Crane Ozone, who it.

Let time was in his punate pfice accompanied by his

jcoming replacement alfredo Mirabal (ited p. 10)

C Explanation: The Huse Select Committee on Assassinatina frand No

idence. f this ptatement It is not in to Duss's segral

statement and Ne Ebio Gene in an interneio on

---

## Page 10

(stated that the was alms en his Stic her Sylie Decon

called hise... to speak to Dawahh,. (

7. Mh. Azone toll Oswald that a peror like him, instead... f

uding the Cuban Pertiler, did it harm... (ibed. p40)

Explanation: It is possible that the Helicow. greenment mll

assume, in light f the argument between Oswall and Ogue, that

azave uned made such a statement.

Si She also instated the handling f his visa applecative by

sending it to the clan Hensly f Freign Relina, fin

which a reply was received in the normal marines. some fiftic

to thity dags later, aporg the issuance 8 a mess. on the

condition... that he prevensly ottari a pursian vessi (ibail p. 40)

Explanation: although the seen

as. not in Wis Deans.

sigued statement, 'I actedly scared and the besion guernet

and have athled the statement the her. HOW?

9. Mis. Duces stated that she does nit seall whether Oscold

subseguently. called her on the Consulate ohme number which ahe

Chal gine chris.... (ited p. p.4a)

Explanation: Mrs. Duan. neve reads the alme statement. In fact.

in her sequid statement she saed that he had gives him

---

## Page 11

I her winers olome number decause de comed hive to call

subsequently to check whither he had oltarned a visa, but that

he had. never called bamnte,..

10. Sylvia Duian stated that all the counciations that she and Chockin.

Azuse had with Oswald were in the English language pince Oswall ded

not geal any Spanish (ild 40) 2

Explane ten i Sylics does not state this in her signed Itlement The stepeas

gincement and the Centeal Intelligences ajeney boch ind information feor...

I the taps Ithat a guan who called the donist Enlory; allyully

Oswald, pohe spanish in some f his enveisatin" See sectini on Russe

emern no I were there co's calls 3 Kip 2 it me indis

I Sylvin Dean statel that you pering See Haring Dewald's Statogngh

in the. newspagen, she immetentely recognized and stentfit it as..

say that when she become wware that the cassis was see Howe

sswald; she asceaned that it was the same mi that about that

months... carlier had beer to the Cabar Conside to solect an

intransit visa. to Russia, having. taken his a ind ferne the ppecial

document, de gesected de ques mained to a Rescin eman

---

## Page 12

Cand belonged to the Fan Plan 7rr Caba Committes; she Shechal

the data. in. the: Consulate achives... and there phe became perlani

that it was the same individual who was blonds, short, dressed.

inclegantly. and whose face turned red wher angry. I find bemo re.

Lie Hawey Osirald + Sylvia Duian; November 26, 1963, CIA # 473).

cable from the Mexico City Statin to Healguater M Nwr-23,1963, Chief f.

Statin Winston Sciot ssites that Echeracia toll him that pylia Dues

Hated that she had perogaged Oswall on IV trember 22 and hand

Ill he busband, Socatio Qui, about the viests. ( Cable Chuf f

Statin to Healgiades, w 23, 1963,- Medi 1046, CIA No 426 i Chilogy I As

Argastess, enter no 59, 7m 23, 1963, 61A No 638)

C

---

## Page 13

C the filing material found in stir sman's agued statement

never made... its usy to the baren Conmessins Exhibit 2121..

1. Where she became aware that the assaisen was Jee Harvey Oswald,.

he ascertened. that it was the pame war that abint Two march

achin had been to the Chase Consulate to solicit an intransit vesa;

" Russia, harisg tahen his same from the special documentatin he

intel he was massed to a fussians woness and belonged to -che

Fair Play 7r Cala Commithe , she checked the dats in the Consutale.

achines and them she became entain that It mad the same.

individuct, who was blonde, shot, dressed unclegantly and whore face

ned red when anguy. (Blund Mens ne. See Harvey Oswald + Sylvie Duran, 1326/43, CIA *+

Explanation: The statement attabsted to Wus Desase in the interrogation

got given to the warew Conscisson was at the abre but the.

feeling ' sylie Decan state that you seeing the Hainey Orwald!

stagingh in the regains, she enemedital, mergazel aid identfed.

2 sylera Duan's ojiial statement to the berrean fficils it.

Opens that bowell may have had the argument with the Crane

an his put wist to the candle and to to the stuned

---

## Page 14

(13)

C Explanation. This can he esplained in the the my the original.

is written. It in just statements and is not in asey sheologienl

ander. (Jhis quester vill be explained here we quester her in betio

aity.

3c the only aid she ill give Oswall was alrising hiss

to go to the suet Consal, (Blink Items ne Jes Haney Osured

Explanation: du Wanen Commissin sphibit 2121, received fern the

sion grenment, it spence that the claud fere,

sited Oswall? vise appliestin and never ffered hine

it alge not In then Denis i tent in be a cle

dissensated to the 7B1, Stale Degatment aid the White Hoose,

Heatzusters glast fum the Messian police rent f Deans

interrogaten i "The Conand them spoke by telphine to the peson

in change of that office, and was infrimed that the case would have

to be refereed to Hose and that there poned be a free merich

C dilang. (Cable Herogsters to... Cl, Stated Chite House, DIT 85758) Jhe

.6M..... -

---

## Page 15

(14)

Lie

Aylvin. Dwas. stated. that Iee Haney Opwald vested

the Cuban. Consulate on. only two occanzions... She stated. that the

first visit secured. on the morning f a day in wither late september.

or. early. October. The second visit. occured on the after f the same dite. The.

The Cursint twice

isits= suret on Sether 27 1963 A phone call fume Sylica Duea

to the soviet antoing at 4s5 pre that afternoo appears in the troussigh.

I she stodini sureller the set Enter, in stick she diceianses...

C

..Oswall's case with a Somet fficat who ass her this number

to call her back Cclassifiel Staff Summag 7 Pican 7 CIA Documents, 319/78.

1p. 6=7, ClAN°S 320-32; - Cable fine Mafico Cty to the Duentro, /23/63, Mes 7025, 01A

105-218-219; CiA Transenge from Russian Entary, 119/13 civ 27) 02 4266 pm

su dentified devil Crusulate iffiel called Syle Duan ingining aticke

he Americare... categor had been-to the Cuban Conscite office, sylves

esponded affinstly, responding. that. the smean was at the free it.

3p 7-10, CIA Nos. 321-324; Cabli fum... Metics City to the Duentor, "123/03,

( Medi 1005, ClANs 219-221; CIA Transing fun... Russian Emberay, ?: 113,

CIA No.30) he allitin the visa applicatin is dated September 27t aul

Is Eusebio Agere in an priterrei on

---

## Page 16

on.. Arzarsinatiois.. stated. that. he recalled, Oserald vesited

At lEAst ONdE ON the day the Application wAsdAed

Caban. Consulate /outh 27th 8 Satenter...

Jhe. Aruse Select Committee on Assassinatoris has also

print evedenco.... that. phoos... that. O swald visited the Cabar

consulate not tor tres as blic man statet but thei

times. A phone call from Syluca Decan to the set Embassy

at ils1 a.m on satulay sept, 28,1943 aspears n the tranges.

- no. Дело

- the electinis suveillance)g the savet Consulate. is

(states there a an anita tizen at the elan Grantee who

had prevenuly rested the Inveet Consulate She subsequerly put her ow.

the fine: and.. he conversed. with the Smeat Pril in Russia..

(Classified Staff Summary Z Revier Z CIA Documendo, 79/18,- pp 10-17,

CIA NoS. 324326; CIA Transcipl fem Russian Embarsy, 9/28/13, CIA. No. 25)

---

## Page 17

116,

Contrel Intelligease Agealy Cábles Re Duran

MCS

.Dn..... November. 23,1963,.

"The centinl tutelegence" agering ti seit.

nte te ederene eyucting thit he ireet bglica finl de perent

Ihe.. aguey stated phat she uao a iteficao cetzei who had gut... Osavall

in toush.with the bonset Enbassy They gie Cheraiss a wte wich

Ouiis'i eddrere,-ceri mietora abhresep cher bescher's abdees, hes bunce biedt

his home phonei sumbes and hes plise f wote. Ihe Centel Intellyesce AgereyWalo

riggistel. that Ducan be hild iccomousiceats intll she cal be guesmed on the.

sattr CRite te Lius Cchivarca te avrest Sylica Durari, Rarember 23, 1923

On the sams day the chief. fi saton, Wesnton Acott, recenieh ntl hone

call frm. Fact witen im tharhingten hogly shelguasters aching, that

Sylice Duran not hee arreated. Wenston seth told Fjask WhittiIthat it

itr late, shat he enll not we, trgust and that ten fEsmeen, I

huull aheady have received e cable which stoted that Chemaia herd

lieily bein tll to anest Sylica, as a Weskean initestere.

(NatuWrtten by chif. f Statin re phre call with jack Whitteu?

Rnu. 23,1965 ; Chionclagy gugarel by Anre Horljastere, WX7Z4, entry 37, CIANO, 635).

---

## Page 18

7

aund... statin" that We wrild hage that her arrest sunch be. Keg

alamlitely secret, that no informatin from her is published or leaked,

that all infrination from her is cabled to Washingto inmedatily

through me; and that his anest an't statements. not apread -to an

liftist gimps. (Chief-f-Statin phne call to Sies Eterica, Nor 23, 1943, 614 no.

chroni an i st enter 23,1963, CIA Mes, Flock Call fun

The Contral datelegance agency! intrest in Setis Duar

radily again, to tent enfratin in the stay

all fine glen saan, they ant the metics greenent to.

ate tango, shantanging the vege station's nepes

so est dogs or estant that the roguest

Any one shot the pond for witnes

the ations rector ente

Oooor Ferrantee 28,5953, chenaria called the Merit...

chief? Statin Winston feart with the fist rants o the sylves

Ducas intercogatin, He state that dybria Decan hal guer a

---

## Page 19

" written statement attesting for. thro

a.. losing. stay in. the..0.55.K. C. ace Sylve

Duean. sute. up. p.T)... She also stated that she recognized Owned

on TV.. Nat.22... ad Fold her huaband, Atratis Duean abnot the

Sylven stated that LHe

Om Nember 2t,1963 in a cable from the Medics aty Statio

to Helguarters, tich consisted o abditinis o amendments to what Cheari

had aheady Ill Winstm beatt abnt Sylvis: Decan's interogation, the

Explanatie.

ena tapeserted fath

haed. her uses still valid (Ar the US.SP). (pee. Sybiia Ducase write -1p

pI). Duan had the inquision that Oweld had or belined he

had made. eagements in Washingtow wherey instructins wold be sent

to the soviet Enlassy. is Merico to issue him a boret entery viss

in a manner by which he wuld not have to mait the Siret Entring

himse. (Cable fine Netier City Statin to Headquater, Mr. 24,1978, Mesi 55,...

CIA no. 423-424; Cherudogs Chenudogs Qune Gorgestene, Por Por entry no no. CIA No. at ).

though. This statement. is attubited tr Alver Duean as tarly as Nor 24,.

1963., et does not appear is scher sylves Decano payned

statement no... in CE2/21 given to the Wanew Commesseni... by the

ENFO. From FrANscRipts

rescan greesement

---

## Page 20

Insect

18 a

What appears in the trangts is that Sylve had

sent. the overcion. to the frict Inlessy stating that his arguering

assued That that wald be no pollen... (Clans fred Staff Sainma

pReview f CIA Dozine, 7918, 0p67, CIA NoS. 320-321 ; Calle farm

intelico City to the Diseat, /0/63, Mei 725, CIA NoS. 218:219; CIA

Transeigt fem Runsian Embarry, 920/43, CANs.27)

---

## Page 21

On No: 24,1963,. steadquarters yet mored stort. wifet

oswild, may have told Slick Dean about his futore plans.

a calls fum Neeluarters to the Wete City Stiter, headguesters wir

after aslyzing. all the traffic and reading the-statement one angrtant

quite tell juggles as. When the t an nes aty in lite

detentes and early Otter to get a sieet visa and a Cuban ban

disa, did he want to tand to clin right away, alone, in h

his wife goen him these and thew leave fue Cale, or did hi

I plan to reture to the stater fud and ther. have bit!'

althnugh it appears that he was the thaiking oly abut a percy

change frisedance to the dinet ine, at is aler prialle

That he was... getting documented to make a quich sange after

assassiating the preadent. Please pistendy your herry madne

and give... us. you agesin, and also have Helicans questim

Ely no 87, CIAN

Om Norember 28, CIA Washangto Heatguade registerl a Hopes Ct,

Stateri cable sandy fall stection infirmatio in Strin T. Ducer, Jhey ches

Cignanted ther

Haney Oswald in Anitacts with the Chen and first. Embashes, (Calle fer

C/A Necdude, Mr 25, 1963, DIR 84821, CIA No 43 Chunley 8 Ame britne

---

## Page 22

•Arientes, 25,1543, estay. no, 87, CIA Vo 647)

The Ilegio City Septic to 01684926 on the parie dent

perching the Hea guates all the enfoscaton they pondred on Sylica Deeen

and stating that?

visita ( Calle fm Meteco Cit Statin to DenIguate, Derr 25,1963, Mexi 7065, CIA No!

Nit. only was the Centect Intelegese aginay concured wich Mes...

Duais stetente tut po ass the caban greesent was puesa, t

" envenen Seten Prist Butri and Chan Anterado Jorgen Demand

smar may mey po that she wild may thet cater apene bat

feed may to the American ( Iu Harey Ooned) (Calle fum Messis Gt, Stalm.

'' Nalgutien, Dr. 25196), Here 7068, CIA.No 398; Chantezy 7 Aune Gelgastre,

Nor 25,1963, ente no 95, CIAno. 648)

An. a cable dated por 26,1943, Quitanzado ditorn regastel tphat..

Dean fuste, Me Cone arl Hover be giren the. fillerg puggins... fam

(Acad Agoste and. the anoten batica Dostero de dent

Ines that Aglen Decon he tild that she is the org eving ar. Cler

sh lenos the full story and here she is so the same orden that

---

## Page 23

that der. orty chance. for serenal is to come clean with the while. plainy

and to corpucate couptilly with the bleen gressment in petein. for

lisa greet quitectin. They the suggest that the Mercans parish

Iylrica... Durase immediately. so as to eliminate the pershity f her

beg Amuggled. ont f also to Caba or telled here. (Celle fume Neperio

at Stitem to Malgiantes, Nember 26,1963, Mexi 7072, CrANe 387; Chamlagy &

Aris Artgastice, Devember 24,1563, entry p0: 97, (I Ma 649))

On Herember 26, the Medican giverment, friseded copies. f

Agle Duesis pignek statement to the Centerl detellegace ageng

Onu. November 27, 1963,7 Washten ElA Heckguärten ashed the Meleo

ty datini to request the neser autholics to interrogate sylvian

Lusan to the extent recesary to claufy the ortstiting grente

ich. had been raised in thei cables the greens is bus. Healerter

watch that the Never City. Stalin aned purede questinis to the

mecan. intercogatos but that they waked that no Amer

-eme in enlact with. Duean. (Calle ClA Heatzuaden to Negler

City. Statin, No 27,1943, De 85318, CIA Ns. 497, Cheolag 3 Anne Gorkye tue

Mr. 27,1963, entir ns 121, CIA N. 653.)

---

## Page 24

(

Om November 27,1963, the Chef f Statem was mitfuck t

Luis.. Ecleracus: at. 1215 that Sylver Deean had bere rarested. becau

she. was attempting. to leave. Helico fur Cila.. (Celle to Heedguartere fur

Mexico City, Anember 27,1963, Alexi 1101, CIA no. 493; Chimilagy 6 Grene

Footpaster, Noverbee 27,1963, est, Ma 125, ClAso 655).

Om Anember 27,1963, Ambassado Mann requested the hesis aly

staten to pars a cable to sectary 8 State, Dian puake with there

O. sinkiesing alrasado Ugate and guttering here azarest Decan

O rarel f. Sylvia. Ducer

Q. request franest pi Eusebio agare, Alfredo Nestel, Juss Allen ind

I Cable Nepio aty staten to Healguanter,.

posember 27,1963, Wesi 7104, CIA no 781; Chumology 7 Anne Mortgaster, Rovember 27,

-1963, entay no. 126, COA w. 655). 1

On Harember 27, 1963, the Meren Cly Stel sent a phtestate

copy 3 Sylvea Aurens ten page pegret ptatement. ( Cable Napero

City Stahm.... to Healgante, Ivember 27,943, Med 2105, CIA. No 479; Chantag.

3 are or gate Maril 29,1963, Est 140 127, CIA. MO: 658)

Or Anember 26,1963, the Central Intelligence Agemey Washington

(Headge itera... sent a Clanfietem calle to, Meter City Stalina. plate

that they panted. to inine that neither dylicia Dress mor the Chas

got... the ingussini... that the American were belind her rcarrest..

---

## Page 25

C. They stated," me ae want the bite authritics to take

the rapist for the stile offin (Calle fum Headgwaites to the

D185374,

Welcer City Stälma, Nembee 18, 1963, CIA No. 464; Chrisbogy & Are Griteiline

Minenden 281963, enting no. 141, CIA.No. 658)

Ose Amerber 28, 1963, the Netican City Statin serit a cable

to the Direct f the cantent dartellagence angery. stating the

hard repated m Mw: 27,1913, that Sylves Decans arest pas gulle.

noledge. in the Cuban Emberay. He also ugnted that Merender 25,193.

(ten. Dam returned to has office she permed quite, plead with her

perfomance..... She stated. that the Welcan police had thentined her pach

tuditio to the Unt thates, she had no fear f enfertilm.

(Calle fume Meter City Statem to the Deritis, Nivember 28, 1963, Nepi 1115,

CLA No 463; Chronology fOrese Fortgastuse, November 28,1963, integ no 15%,

Or Anember 28, 1963, the Mereo Aty Statem sent a pable ho

he Director f. the Centend Intellegence. Agey stating that. jhe.. peare.

sylea. Darcan on. the Gorcesment f Meteo's sitative without crusallo

the Meres City Staten shovel a gest desire fum: the Western

uthmtes... to be f pervice... The cable clar stited -phet -the merced

City Staton hal so atlanatove but to eifum Echerneria chet

---

## Page 26

O the setier ca, state auld male mo find request th

her. fintensed detention; that the decision must be the Hasica gricerse

so... (Cable fum. Net Cly. Statin to. Headguäiles, Nrember 28, 1963,.

Mex 7118, CIA No. 461, Chemolgy 8 Aure Gordoästue, Arealer 28, 1963,

enter.. no. 156, CIA No. 662)

On November 29,1963., Echevarica atisen. Chaff Statin,

Werstin Heath, that Sylvia Dueen had been pleased. at 7:00 pm

Misico.... aty tims on. Hivember 2% Echorassio farther stated. That

I Dian i sad store suvetan and will be afghanded

any time. they received infrisesten to variant it. Echemania aloo

stated. that Aylice Dran still appeared. to the Iledicase to have

bes imbed only in the business f staining Clam and Sireet

visio. fu Oswall (Celle from Merco city Headguates to Diesta,.

November 29,1963 Wes 7125, ClAN. 459; Chanely 8 Anne Hortpastras,

November 29,1963, entry ur 164, (IA No 663)

Ose Hivember 29,1963,. asted the Mosier Cty Stalem to Kep them.

infomed.on. the stetus.f.the.interrogatinio..@StenDucanAlradhUget

Cand iches implicited as early as persible. C'Calle Headgunster I.

Mexico Cit, Station, Mr 29,1963, DIR 856.72, CIA No. 457, Chinlogy f Crime

Forgesture, Unember 29, 1963, ethy no 170, CIA NO (6S)

---

## Page 27

On November 30,1963, Herequesdre requested the meter aty

Statin to slay inimediatil all the enfinition they received to the

7B.1. Jegit.. attache in Aleco. (Calle fum Headquartero to Meter

At Statimi, November 30,1963, DIR 85712, CIANs. 454;. Chenolagy 3 Aure.

On December 12, 1963, Healgaaters. cabled Neper City Statin. stating

that the. Federd Burean f tavestigater, was pushing to wend ug its

inalysis f nets aspects this case and ingently needs resuets. from. the

" sitergsten f slice. Dean and her husland doing ther second

acrest. Headquarters congesturel that Duean say not have bees intercogated.

it all during her second anest but that bless City should fired out

the facts and advise. ( Cable Headquarters to Mercio City Statern, Dee 12, 1963,

DIP 88642, CIA.NO.559; Chemology 8 Anne Hartfaster, Dee 14,1965, ente 0.25,...

CLA No. 679)

On December. 2, 1963 Meter aty staten cabled the results f the

send intercogatio a Slica Ducaw, to Healguanters... (Ses preveris... pertin,;

Cable fime Medicio Aty Statem to Director, December 12, 1963, Mexi 7364, CIA

(No. 557-8; Cheonology 8 Qune Sortgadre, Dee 18,103, entory no. 252,

CIA No. 679).

One December 21, 1943, Neakites called Were that then present plan

---

## Page 28

in parsing information to the Warren Commissari was to elimicate

senten telghne tag in order to protect their entire spectamis.

I he Central Intellynce ayeray well rely instend on. Sylves Dursn's... statements

al. or the forest Crisular files which the fricts gore. the Stets department

Helguarters stressed. that spact, detailed infisntaton. fun

n just phat... Ayles Deean and other pfiels said. about Dawald's visit

nd. his dealings toned be valuable and isable probatine crrdenee... (CIA Cable

um Headquaiters... to Metico City Stater, Dee 21,1963, DIR. 90446, CIA. No.549; Charlogy

7 Anne Gertjestore, Nee: 21, 1963, entry no. 268, CIA No. 687.)

One January 2, 1964, Mopier City Statem explained to Headquates that

..д.

what gen bad that he WAS outly willing time t it

mted.. states to enfront Oswall if necessary (Cable Nepico ity Statin -1

cadquarters,.. Ja inney 7,1964, Mexi 7115, CiNo. 545; Chronology 8 Arne Gardgaster.

z. January 3,1964, ntig s0, 271, CIA No, 682) ...

Or. Ague 7,1964, Head guantu called the Meter it, Stalem that they wicked.

alert there that there manders. f Narrow f Te Warsen Conisession Nesters

Willers, Slawson, and Colemen, doll arive ithat publicity on trust

aids Apuls to. tonfer with the slates City staten abnot the inicstegative

"stion thew. on the Oswell can. Healesters ales statid-that the seat

---

## Page 29

juryo...is.to...assure.therselves..abnt.the investigates completeners.

(Celle Shadrates. to... Medics Oty Statini, Agul 7,1964, DIrEz633, CIA # 535 ;

Charlogy fanne. Gortgustre, Goril 7,1963, entry no. 319, CIA. N. 328)

i.. On Agul 8, 194%, Hendgianters called the Hese City station - Mha?

the Warren Commissine Staffins want to down of the these great has

7.B→ ligatin and in gireend sant to kun of all the goralli steps were taken.

Headquarters called that some f the highly touchy angusts they will dissons are.

the they slimed ell he the Mistin Nice the made, where they

shall ty to Fach to sylin Dueen in Netice at the Gosslate and whiche

the whenses will bet them publish: what they did es the whole ce Henrind

falst callel-that the Vaven Comerson stiffer finger the citin .... tele.

ajaney.hestro.ansts.and.that.theymaytove-gressed.foms.the

enseng. that they hal ghat grunter and L

bute that. they do not tano the dlands on the agency's accengerines

ach the nicans, Healguants firther called that the chief. f Stalem.

shall land then all the peded aisalane with the minimum.

Cprisible diate @ aceto and tiercegies (Cable Headgusters I

the Meter. city Statin, April 8,1944, D. 18. 13026, CIA No. 533:, Cheritoy

3 anne gate, Gil 3, 194 enty no 320, (1A:M 698)

---

## Page 30

On Aguel 111961 mete the. Warie Grenz plaffers requestid a

emplete witter rignt f the incerines telen and prestigations parte buy

the Medican anthones ofter the assansuivatio.. They promised that any

Staten to Healgisitis, Agril 11,1964, Nesi 8984, CIA No. 528; Chinology 8

Aure Gripestre, Out 11,1964, entegm 333, CIA N. 700)

One veng F, 20d, the resent et, Stalin called (e tele a

( coty? the officiat Mont on Agles Duran,

reguest made to fuis Eateraria, Acting Wrist Glennicon, by the thee

staff member f. the Waien Corinn who parted Neger m Aju 1964

AMMA 25520, CLANs 516; Chaselagg 8Ame Gradyalent, He 26, 1964 ente

Mr 346, CIA No 205

On. sept 14, 1964, as in te Haven comin

discussing dylie Dues,....

hardenotay.sample.ashel.if.thice.pas.infrsmatenatarlable.on.the.ennent

stetus... f hes parale, atttule and enot engloyment. Headquaders alor belies

C that the Waves Contricroin night went Duan to windy that she

computed Oralls visa spliten gages. ( Catle Her guarters It Were

Cite, Station. Digtember 14, 1964, DISC 496(8 CLANs.6231 ChimP Arre

---

## Page 31

CArlistene, Set, 16, 196%, entry no. 320, CIA M. 109)

Ose dept 16, 1964, the Warren Commissan requested any substantive

date. which cull he cel in a published regent as an authrutilere source

8. the allegatenin that Sybie Dear and her hubend were or au

mimbers f the Come party, (Calle Healguarter to Nepo CD,

Statin, Set 16, 1964, DiR 4994, C1A N0622; Chinloy f Arene

Glistene, Best 16, 196%, entry no 371, CIAN. 799)

imes apolicitin, Healguastes also daled for other exangles or blanks

for comparism and jossill authentication, ( Callo Headquarters to Meder City.

State, Sipt 18, 1969, DIR 50732, CIA No 621; Chaology f Qune Godfasture,.

Site 18,1944, entry no 372 CLANO 710).

On best, 19, 1944, Headquarter learned that Wis Decan was no

longer: in sitin but that her hardoned, Houtes, bank Kest it

pryment on pent, light bills, and scened to love as well as wer

The price f chen pee das unters (Cable Meter Cy Stel t

Neatgrater, Sipt, 19,1564, Mere 0930, CANo 6195 Chirag Gree

---

## Page 32

Ore seglander 30; the Never City Statew learned that Sylves

Duan had bees on an excussion with sme tudents to bale Wayines

and Neila, (Celle Netico, Coy Stater to Deadgueles, October 5, 1964, He 1120,

CIA No. 598; Cheonalgy f Anne Martgater, 0€5,1964, entig no 393, CIA No 5.98.

a i wind

---

