# 180-10072-10276

## Page 1

180-10072-10276

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

9/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10072-10276

NUMBERED FILES.

008140

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

DEA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 05/08/1978

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

HEMMING, C.P. POLITICAL & SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES.

DEA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT.

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/27/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 149.

v9.1

IT 50955

DocId: 32245218

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JFK Routing Slip 008140

- : NO.

ocument I.D.

INDEX

Hemming.

G.P-C

DEA

file summary

DATE

5/8/28

QUISIDE CONTACT REPORT

QrT

COPY TO

Robert Blakey

Gary Cornwell

Kenneth-Klein

'Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Pick Ruttings

Jackie Hess

Cliff Fenton

Mike Ewing

Team #1

Team #2

Team #3

Team #4

Team#5

Form #2

Special Instructions:

NH 50955 DocId: 32245218

Page 2

---

## Page 3

KING Or KENNEDY

(Circle one)

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE

• May 5

008140

PIME

I.

Identifying Information:

Name

DEA

Address

Telephone

Type of Contact;

Telephone

XXX Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

Attached find copy of Summary: Of Hemming files reviewed

at. DEA

III..

Recommended Follow-up (if any):

sung included in Herising sitess bore

Signature:

HH

50955

DooId: 32245218

Page 3

---

## Page 4

2/16/78

P.M. ORR

.. HEMMING FILES -- DEA

SUMMARY

During the course of an investigation of Benton F. Thomas,

DEA undercover agents were also able to work up a case against

Hemming based on Hemming's presence at three meetings where

plans for smuggling cocaine were discussed. Hemming was arrested

August 23, 1976 and found gulity of conspiracy to smuggle

cocaine and marijuana on November 23, 1977.

Part of Hemming's defense was an attempt to show that

Hemming was actually working in cooperation with the DEA,

naming Lucien Conein as his contact. Conein documented his

contacts with Hemming, which began in May 1975, when Hemming

"showed up" at Conein's office with information on drug-

trafficking.

During the WerBell-Nardi trial in September 1976,

Hemming visited Conein daily

while Conein was hospitalized

with a stroke. He passed a "resume" to Conein before Conein's

departure from Miami, which contained "code words, cryptonyms,

and pseudonyms" unknown to Conein, in an effort to make it

appear. that he had a prior contact

relationship with the DEA

through Conein. Unfortunately, the Hemming file did not include

a copy of the above-referenced

"resume."

Investigative reports show that Hemming may have obtained

the contraband while on a mission of mercy to Honduras sponsored

by Soldier of Fortune magazine, then smuggled the narcotics to the U.S.

in a DC-3.

The narcotics allegedly came from Colombia.

From the files it appears that Hemming is mainly interested

in arms-smuggling, while Thomas was more directly involved. in narcotics.

Hemming only attended three of the twenty meetings with Thomas

and DEA undercover agents).

The undercover agents were also able

to obtain background information on Hemming, Thomas and their

operations such

as the following:

-- Hemming claimed to be part of a larger "organization"

and have excellent connections in Latin America. He

said 99% of the money and equipment going to Colombia

was actually used to combat guerilla activity.

Since

Congress would never condone aid to South American

countries earmarked toward the settling of internal

conflicts,

asistance must therefore be ostensibly provided

for narcotic interdiction, but actually used for

other purposes.

High government officials in South

America receive bribes to protect major drug traffickers.

The "head

man" in a country neighboring Colombia is

directly involved in facilitating drug smuggling,

according to Hemming.

Thomas said the smuggling

organization was semi-military in nature and organized

along military lines.

- Hemming and Thomas, who met in the Belgian Congo where

they both served as soldiers-of-fortune, work for

Techpol Security,

ostensibly a detective agency which

also specializes

in wiretapping, reportedly for black-

mail purposes.

Those with connections to this

organization include:

Robert Rebozo, Alfredo Durant,

a Major Zamora of Miami City PD, and

Anselmo Allegro,

long-time associate of Hemming.

- Other associates of Hemming mentioned in the file

include Howard K. Davis (noted in an investigative

HW 50955 DocId: 32245218 Page 4

---

## Page 5

HEMMING -- DEA FILES

SUMMARY

page 2

report of Anthony Acceturo) and Mitchell WerBell.

- Allegedly the source for the narcotics is Carlos

Caraballo of Miami.

- Thomas is reportedly an associate of every major

smuggler in the South Florida area and an

associate

of Carl Louis Coppola.

Hemming Files also identify two "former DEA agents...

now employed by another

U.s. government agency" as l

indicates Briggs.

Other information (source not now recalled)

indicates

That been with the CIA. in the early '60's.

ATHT

50955

DocId: 32245218

Page 5

---

## Page 6

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

FILES OF THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION

MAIN COMPUTER PRINTOUT:

"12/75

01/76

06/76

09/76

12/77

Subject suspect of illegal activity under guise of mercy missions

to Latin America. Subject rented DC-3 aircraft twice during December

1975.

12/75 GI subject and Benton plan to smuggle 15 tons marijuana

from CB to HD via A/C and then to US by ship.

GI subject present during negotiations between Benton F. Thomas and

special agent on 1/9/77, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., re 6 KG cocaine.

GI per confidential informant, subject ised mercy flights to HD

to smuggle 5 tons marijuana to U.s.

GI subject arrested 8/23/76, Miami, Fla., for smuggling cocaine.

AP on 8/20/76 Ins/Tecs L/0 176-0813 placed on subject req. GI.

Subject found guilty by Federal jury, Miami, Fla.,

11/23/77 of

conspiracy to smuggle cocaine and marijuana. (GI

- 75 0285) "

FILE

# GI 75-0285

dated 2-1-77 to -----

-- Defendant position; status report for Benton F. Thomas. Involved with

Benton Franklin Thomas, DON 9/2/25. Joseph Thomas Olivetti.

DOB 11/4/33.

for cocaine/marijuana smuggling. Any questions - contact S/A Robert G.

Fredericks at FTS 820-4900.

- Teletype 19 Aug 77

Re :

Benton Thomas - as per instructions of Ausa Shrouse,

and Thomas Briggs, fromer DEA employees and now employed by another u.s.

government agency, are needed for trial in the above referenced case.

pre-trial scheduled for 8/22/77.

--

Teletype 17 Aug 77

Re:

Hemming - Sherouse instructs that Lucien Conein will be necessary

for trial in the above case.

- Teletype 17 Aug 77

Re: Hemming - Sherouse instructs that S?A? John Andrejko will be

necessary for trial in the above case.

FILE # GI 75-0285 dated 11-22-75 to 1-30-77

- Memo 6/16/76 from David W. Costa (DEA) to Phillip R. Smith, requesting

Conein document all past contacts with Hemming. Advises against

future contacts with HEmming.'

- Letter 9/16/76 from Davis W. Costa to US Attorney Robert W. Rust,

Re: Hemming - Advises Hemming defendant in DEA conspiracy case then

pending trial. Advises Conein an employee Of DEA's office of intelligence

at Washington, DC. Conein recently in MIami under subpoena as a

defense witness in the Mitchell Werbell trial. Conein became ill

during the trial and was hospitalized as reflected in attached

documents, defendent Hemming visited Conein while he was in the

hospital.

As Mr. Conein was boarding a flight to return to Washington,

defendent Herming approached him and gave him a document which appears

to be a resume of Hemming's activities over the past several years.

NH 50955 DocId: 32245218 Page 6

---

## Page 7

HEMMING FILES -- DEA - cont'd

page 2

Conein staes that receipt of the document was a complete surprise

to him.

AUSA Ferguson advised DEA 9/16/76 that Hemming's defense counsel

has stated that HEmming has been cooperating with Conein and

this alleged cooperation will be a part of Hemming defense.

- Affidavit of Lucien Conein re: Hemming •

From March 74 to August 74, Conein acting Chief of Special Operations

and Field Support Staff, Office of Intelligence, DEA.

Hemming never employed by Special Operartions and Field Support

Staff of Office of Intelligence, DEA. Conein never authorized funds

or signed vouchers to pay Hemming.

Never solicited information

or gave Hemming missions, tasks, etc.

May 1975 Hemming appeared at DEA Headquarters. Conein brought him

to his office, where he learned Hemming wanted to give some information

on narcotic drug trafficking. Wanted to discuss Miami-Carribean

area.

SA Briggs, brought in for Hemming debriefing.

Hemming's

appearance at DEA at this time unsolicited by Conein or staff.

Conein did not see or talk to Hemming again until after hospitalization

in Miami's VA Hospital for stroke on September 3, 1976.

Everyday after hospitalization Conein visited by HEmming. Told Conein

on 9/4/76 that Werbell found not guilty. Told Conein on 9/5 that

WerBell returned to Georgia and said that WerBell said he was not

going to get himself involved in any other adventures.

On 9/6 Hemming asked how his brother could apply for a position with

DEA.

Conein said he would have to apply thnough the Miami regional

office. Asked GPH to write his brother's name and address in his

address book. Hemming asked if he had read the latest Soldier of

Fortune magazine.

Visits on 9/7 and 9/8 discussed Soldier of Fortune.

On 9/9/76

took Conein to airport for trip to Washington.

Hemming came up to him and gave him an envelope saying, "Here's a

resume for you."

Conein surprised Hemming knew time of his

departure.

Conein thanked him, assuming the resume pertained to his brother.

Conein read resume, doesn't understand why it was given to him.

Contains code words, crytponyms, pseudonyms used by Hemming which are

unfamiliar, never used by Conein's staff, not part of intelligence

reports submitted to Special Operations and Field Support staff of

Office of Intelligence from March 74 to August 76 when staff function

abolished. (file did not include a copy of the Hemming "resume").

- Copy of page from address book with name of Robert Hemming.

- Letter 9/16/76 to "Colonel" from Hemming re: application to DEA

by Robert Hemming.

- Internal memo 9/17/76 from Irvin C. Swank to David Costa re:

Hemming passport - current passport PPT # E1904724 issued 9/23/74

Miami.

Valid thru 9/22/74. Previous passport #G234-934, expired

March 13, 1971.

NH 50955 DocId: 32245218

Page 7

---

## Page 8

.HEMMING FILES - DEA -- cont'a

page 3

Passport apllication reveals:

Travel plans to depart 9/29/74 to

Dominican Republic and Bahamas for 14 days on business. No information

re: previous trips. Plans other trips abroad within one year.

- DEA case report of Robert G. Fredericks. 8/9/76. Meeting at

Stumpy's Cocktail Lounge 1/7/76 with Thomas and DEA agents.

Discussion of delivery of cocaine and marijuana. Meeting 1/9

with Thomas and DEA, Plus Hemming. Discussed delivery of cocaine.

Meeting 1/13/76 with SA's Williams, Fredericks with Benton Thomas

and Hemming. Thomas said Hemming close associate in smuggling

operation.

Meeting 1/19/76 with Herbert Williams, Fredericks meet Thomas at

Mama Lou's Restaurant.

Meetings in March not attended by Hemming except on 3/31. Thomas

and Hemming meet SA's Frederick and Armando Marin to discuss delivery

of 3 KG's cocaine, 25 tons marijuana.

Meetings from March to August 1976 not attended by Hemming except

8/23/76 in meeting with Thomas, Olivetti, Jack Dean Cline, when

all were arrested.

19 meetings total between Thomas and SA's.

- Miscellaneous:

Source of supply for Benton Thomas - Carlos Caraballo.

- Investigative report on Benton Thomas et al 7/23/76 - Michael

Rebozo name mentioned (nephew of Bebe) Confidential informant

stated that about 1977 he, Mike Malloy and Rebozo terminated

dealings with Robert Caivano (suicide 5/26/74) because Caivano

had become a "rip-off artist" involving people in these deals

who carried guns and threatened violence should anything go

wrong. Bill Burgin, Dae County School Investigator feels

Rebozo still engaging in some illegal activity. Appears at

times with unusual large sums of cash.

Richbourg Fisheries a "Trafficante operation" according to

Sgt Mike Jones, Gainsville, P.D. Fish storage business at

Cedar Key, Fla. Formerly owned by Frank Merger.

Report 6/15/76 by D.L. Greagor (Colorado)

During mercy mission to Honduras subsequent to 9/18/74 hurricane,'

members of Parachute Medical Rescue Service PMRS sponsored by

Soldier of Fortune magazine under the direction of Hemming and

George Speakman.

MIssions to parachute personnel into devastated

areas of Honduras in order to provide medical attention to people

in these inaccessible areas.

Source advised G/S Mel B. Ashton and SA D.L. Greagor that Hemming,

speakman, Gilmore Simms, pilot of DC-3 that made drop actually

had little to do with performing mission. Speakman , Simms, Hemming

disappeared with DC-3 for approximately 5 days. These subjects

closely associated with Armando Bolet-Suarez. Dr. John Peters,

Norwood, Colorado believed to be with others for several days.

Believed

to have smuggled approximately 5 tons of marijuana into the u.s.

Report 4/8/76 by Fredericks.

Meeting 4/5/76 between SA's Fredericks, A. Marin and Thomas. Fredericks

IT 50955

DooId: 32245218

Page 8

---

## Page 9

HEMMING FILES -- DEA -- cont'a

page 4

told Thomas that he was apprehensive about meeting with Hemming

because of April 76 Argosy magazine article on Hemming. and Miami

Herald Tropic Section April 4, 1976 with photo. Notriety could

bring attention and compromise transaction.

Thomas said he was

upset about HEmming's behavior; will keep Hemming in background.

Will get another captain for vessel. Hemming knew all about the

plan. Hemming recently conned someone out of money as an advance

for

a book, which resulted in the publicity.

Report 4/6/76 by Fredericks.

Meeting 3/31/76 with Hemming, Thomas, Fredericks, Marin, unidentified

male. Hemming said smuggling organization of which he and Thomas

were members, concerned about security of the operation.

Hemming making arrangements to see boat in Panama, which will be

used as collateral for $20,000 loan from Fredericks to Thomas.

Hemming said he didn't want boat identified becasue Fed agents placed

transponders on bottoms of suspect vessels. Hemming didn't feel

it was warranted for Fredericks and Marin to see boat. Hemming

said boat belonged to "organization. Stressed main consideration

for all transactions was security.

People "down south" would wait

until all details worked out before load would be delivered.

Captain had decided job offer involving activities in Africa in order

to handle this losd for Thomas

and his associates. Hemming warned

Thomas against saying too much.

Added that at least 50% of crew

would be "their people" -- that way they had greater control.

Fredericks asked Hemming how he could be sure load wouldn't be seized

in S. America.

Hemming replied that 99% of money and equipment

going to Colombia actually used to combat guerilla activity. Since

Congress would never condone aid to S. American countries earmarked

toward settling of internal conflicts, assistance must therefore be

ostensibly provided for narcotic interdiction, but actually used

for other purposes. Hemming said high government officials in

South America receive bribes to protect major drug traffickers.

Said that "head man in the country neighboring Colombia is directly

involved in facilitating drug smuggling. S. American authorities

compiling statistics to please U.S. authorities by arresting "free-

lance operators" and seizing their loads.

Well connected groups have

nothing to fear from L. American authorities. Fredericks inquired

as to quality of Hemming's contacts in Latin American government.

Hemming replied that they were the best possible. Thomas added that

Hemming's connections were good

in S. America.

Hemming said it would be strictly boat operation. Dummy corporation

could be set up to avoid problems if trouble arose and ties between

Marin, Frederciks, and Thomas' $20,000 loan were found. Delivery time

30 days after payment of $20,000. Hemming refused to allow them

to meet captain but would look into other ways to reassure Fredericks

that plans were going correctly.

Report 4/6/76

Meeting 3/26/76 with Fredericks, Williams. Thomas having difficulty

with delivery in $80,000 plan.

Had a 57 ft vessel in Panama.

Boat

would hleave Panama fo pick-up 25 tons of marijuana. Needed $20,000

additional to pay captain. Boat worth $65,000.For extra $20,000

From Williams, Thomas would put boat up as collateral. Would pick up

at least 3 KG's of cocaine for Williams. The boat would bring the

NH 50955 DocId: 32245218

Page 9

---

## Page 10

H EMMING -- DEA - cont'd

NH 50955 DocId: 32245218

page 5

load to a certain point; Thomas would then retrieve cocaine

and

smuggle it into U.S. for killiams.

Thomas arranging for contract to take aerial photographs

over Latin America.

With legitimate business front, would have

no difficulty obtaining necessary State Department visas to

travel extensively

and fly E23 without arousing official curiousity.

SA's believe Costa Rican contact is Morris Clinton Henson, owner

of "Vagabond" yacht.

Report 4/8/76 p. 6 of 96

Hemming information NADDIS #310145

WM; DO B03/01/37; 6'6"; 232 lbs

1121 Jann Ave. Opa Locka, Fla.

FBI #100 629 E; Miami PD #77255;

Key West PD #6221

Alleged to be soldier of fortune and arms smuggler; associate of

Ienton Thomas; employed by Techpol Security; licensed to carry

firearms.

Techpol Security: NADDIS #459914

801 Madrid Suite 105

Coral Gables, FL

Tel 305/443-9681

446-8379

Employer of Hemming and Thomas

Meetings

1/13/76 Thomas, Williams, Fredericks

p. 77v

Dec. 1975 to date

Hemming proto-type "soldier of fortune" has appeared with Thomas

at under-cover meetings with DEA agents on 1/13, 1/19/76. Actively

involved with Thomas in smuggling venture; believed to be Thomas'

associate in running arms and ammunition out of U.S. (p. 89)

Thomas known associate of Coppola and alleged associate with

every major amuggler in South Florida area. Has admitted to DEA under-

cover agents that he utiliaes his B25 and boat for smuggling

ventures. In addition, believed he and Hemming smuggle arms out

of US.

(Coppola = Carl Louis Coppola)

- Miscellaneous:

Bob Carswell - WM - resides in Miami, owners of vessel "Empress III"

NADDIS 36-532 for delivery of marijuana to U.S. from Colombia,

Investigative report 1/21/76 by Fredericks

Re: Thomas

Discussion at meeting 1/13/76. Said Thomas', smuggling organization

was semi-military in nature and organized along military lines.

Mentioned Jerry Hemming, who Thomas said was a close associate. He

met Hemming in Elgian Congo, when both involved in mercenary

activities.

Gave business card for Texas Aerial Surveys, Inc.

sun cana

Investigative Report 2/19/76 by Williams

Re: Thomas

Thomas stated Techpol is a detective agency that specializes

personal bodyguard activities for those who need this type of

protection. Indicated that telephone wire intercepts could be

made available to U/C agents if needed.

Phone #

305/763-2499 published to June Thomas, wife of Benton.

Page 10

---

## Page 11

HEMMING FILES -- DEA -- cont'd

page 6

Search of list of phone calls"revealed 7 telephone calls to

305/446-8379 published to Anselmo Aliegro and Roberto Rebozo,

801 Madrid St., Coral Gables,' FL.

lechpol detective agency owned by Roberto Rebozo and Miami

attorney Alfredo Durant,

specializing in bodyguard activities

and special wiretaps, according to a DEA source. Special wire-

taps allegedly used to blackmail participants involved in

conversation.

Source said Eagle Trucking, 290 S W 8th ST, Suite 304,

Miami, associated with Techpol, but dummy corporation. Eagle

formerly Parabellum Corporation located at 305 Jose Marti Edg,

290 S W8th St, Miami. Hemming allegedly manager of Eagle Trucking.

A City of Miami Police Department Major somewhat connected to

Techpol, according to source.

Major's name is Zamora - alleged

owner of one or 2 other detective agencies. Associates of Techpol

frequent Centro Vasco lounge on 2235 S h 8th St, Miami, FL

- Miscellaneous

Carlos Caraballo

1395 S W 70 Ave

Miami

Tel. 261-9882

Called 3 times

C & C International

2439 N W33 Ave

Miami

Tel 638-7988

Called 10 times

--.

--.

FROM PALMER NOTES:

FILE GE AS - 76 - 800 1

- Letter dated April 18, 1977 to Gerald Patrick Hemming, 1121 Jann Ave,

Opa Locka,

FL 33054 in reference to 1/13/77 FOIA/Privacy Act request.

No record

of information requested found in DEA central indices.

- Report of Investigation 9/13/76 Anthony Acceturo

#GF G I 76-4072

Report re: Status of Olympic Trade Lines investigaiton

Details:

Howard K. Davis is currently a pilot for Olympic. Davis is a known

drug suspect and was arrested in 1963 for neutrality violations

with para military Cubans at Key Test, FL

Synopsis:

Report deals with information collected activities of

suspects associated with Olympic Aviation Co, a subsidiary of

Olympic Trade Lines and the Enton Thomas and Mitchell Ter Pell

investigations.

It is interesting to note that SGI 5-0115 and Howard K. Davis

were integral parts of the lenton Thomas conspiracy investigation.

Also, Howard K. Davis was arrested with Gerald Hemming, co-de-

fendant with lenton Thomas, in Key lest in 1963 for neutrality

violations.

The association between Coppola, Thomas, Caivano

and Hemming is doumented in Miami RIU M.O.R. on Enton Thomas,

et al, GI 75-0285

Hemming is past associate of Mitchell her Bll, III and was recently

summoned by the defense in the lerbell-Nardi trial.

•NH 50955 DocId: 32245218

Page 11

---

