# 180-10144-10222

## Page 1

180-10144-10222

.. MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

201-259716

SECRET

PId"

Doe. l

VOLUME 1

11112153

THIRD AGENCY DELETIONS:

FBI:

9/24/59

8/8/59

Confidential Marcos Jose Diaz Lanz

105-1962 Miami

Cuban Political Matters

105-1962

2/2/55

Confidential Carlos Prio Socarras, et al 109-430

New York

5/31/55

109-43

12/15/53

11/19/53

Confidential

11

Wash, DC

8/26/53

"

109-430

9/10/53

11

2/14/55

Secret

Comandos de Rsistencia

Miami

11/23/54

Confidential Carlos Prio Socarras

109-43

New York

10/26/59 Memo of conversation, between MDL and Bernard Reichardt.

Reichardt, WH representative. Miami

Marcos relting info that Hugeut arrived Miami, contacted Maroos

and told him Menoyo in Atlanta, GA to meet with MDL, PDL and Ricardo

de Lorie. Making arrangements to travel by car to Atlanta.

MDL requests Reichardt come also.

12

-- Dispatch 10/15/59

By

- rept of contact with

COCHAR)

Sold C-46 for US $46 thousand. (ODENVY/repts that MDL and Fiorini

making rounds of arms dealers getting prices for fairly sizeable

amounts of small arms.

MDL has been approached by Dominicans thru McDonald with an offer of

"Millions" if they and other defectors from 26th July movement join

forces with Pedraza and the Dominicans. MOL says they have completely

rejected these offers. McDonald=Alan McDonald, known to be close to

Enrique Garcia.

SECRET

-- Cbl IN 30756 9/29/59

while Mexico.

Indicates Station gave MDL $882.72 for living expenses and fare Miami

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

10144-10222

Do Not Fleproduce :

---

## Page 2

•SECRET

DIAZ LANZ, page 2

11112180

i 03

9/22/59 Memo for the record

by

Reichardt

conversation with

Reichardt took MDL to INS to take care of immigration

status, lat

"Doaz' hearing had already been held,

and OS man

'concerned Bernie not reporting

accurately on the situation in Miami.

Bernie to identify himself to 3 evacuees by using

Reichardt asked for info re: Sanjenis, who was fired from

| #2 spot

in DIER for anti-Castro activities, expected to arrive in Miami.

nam

Report that Rev. Air Force planning to remove a couple of

planes from US

w/out an export permit

Cubans a force mission in Miami concerning une as crap re

asked him if he could find American pilots for the planes.

12

9/9/59 Memo, conversations w/ Reichardt

Diaz Lanz brothers still believe Menoyo and Morgan anti-Castro

despite double-cross in Ortega plan.

9/9/59 Memo for record

Reichardt suggests we bring together PDL, MDL and Lorie with

some who have money such as Julio Lobo, Cadenas, Malone, and/or

Figuere.

- 9/9/59 Conversation w/ Reichardt 9/4

Reichardt in touch with Bill Pawley;

8/25/59 Memo, conversation w/ Reichardt by Martha Tharpe

Reichardt established contact with MDL.

8/18/59 Dispacth from,

contact w/ MDL

MDL repdt]v had contact at one time with Julio Lobo, but backed

off deal.

to try to fet them together again.. MDL

presently Tiving in Fiorini's house.

--

8/7/59

Dispatch

from

meeting with MDL, PDL, Lorie

Do not want to be identified with any group; will avoid

groups with Batista taint.

"inclined to believe

that they are about the most wholesome group in sight."

Interested in full scale propaganda program.

Close and apparantly unshakeable relationship with people

like Frank Fiorini, despite warnings that Fiorini talks too much..

8/5/59

Dispatch from

MDL escape

SECRET

MDL sent message to Fiorini thru

---

## Page 3

DIAZ LANZ, page 3

SECRET

11112161

regarding channel to get in touch with MDL.

PDL and Lorie staying together in Key Biscayne.

- Attachment to (UMWA-8) 8/5/59

carried

03

Note to Frank from MDL - Message / by

-- Memo 7/31/59 Debriefing of MDL

MDL

using name Mariano Jimenez y Gomez.

7/31/59 Dispatch (HKH-A) 5357

Returning personal documents designated for use by subject

for cover

identity.

- 7/31/59 (HKH-A/5348 Dispatch

Transmitting photos of subject in two different disguises,

plus photo of subject before the changes. (Photos not attached).

-- 7/31/59 Memo from JC King

Confirmation of verbal request for assistance in providing

documentation specialist and a disguise specialist to travel

to Havana to aid in evacuation of MDL.

- 7/28/59 Memo RE: MDL

Handled so as to avoid all publicity.

-- 7/27/59 Memo for the record

Rudolph E. Somez spoke to the Director, CIA reMDL, upon Mr. Helms

recommendation. Concerned re: State Dept reaction

CIA assistance in evacuating MDL at present time.

Will inform

State that MDL in US and make MDL available to intelligence

community.

--

IN 45703

7/29/59

MDL placed on board MV "Roatan" 7/25 for Tampa.

-- OUT 78034 7/22/59

3

MDL at Station. Evacuation assited by

and I

MDL will be transferred to intermediary fAMiLATTERy WhO WT

take him toStation safehouse.

OUT 76479

7/18/59

SECRET

connected with Cummings Diesel Co, Havana, and

41800

---

## Page 4

".

DIAL LANZ, page 4

SECRET

11112162

13

stringer for Hava Times, contacted

Tand I

and Sergio ght ate genie care rom cutorin anequestina he

and Sergio Diaz arange his escape from Cuba.

withholding nate tron incinisending CIA decision on matter.

Propose send

•both cleared ClA contacts, to Hava

1/18 to act as cut out for station on op. Will use identification

phrase, "Bernie sent me."

TDCS 3/397,010 4/30/59

MDL on Raul Castro's list of officers to be purged. (Also on list:

Jose Duarte, Victor Paneque, PDL

- 201 file request - opened 4/12/60

SECRET

4/800

---

## Page 5

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

201-259716

VOLUME II

SECRET

11112163

-- 11/11/77 Memo

others had been involved in the assassination of Pres. Kennedy.

(9/20/77 article NY Daily News - Lorenz allegations).

WAVE-09611 6/11/63 (UFG 03006 extract

6/63 MDL invited Fiorini to join raid against Cuba 6/15 using

moppy owned by him and PDL. Carlos Garcia and Salvador Garcia

01ler also to be on raid.

- INS Bio data 4/22/77 A-1188113Đ

Lists empl from 73 to pres as S.D. Brull and Assoc. Miami, FL.

Memo for SA/LAD 4/13/76 by Chris Hopkins

Indicates Barker sent letterto DCI 3/31/76

Hopkins does trace on 3 names - presumably brought up by Barker:

Father Jose Leonardo Vazquez - no traces

Father O'Farrill - Traces re: '58 assistance in stowaway

MDL - droped w/out prejudice from Dept of Army 4/63.

Good friend Fiorini.

Barker's letter - recommeded not answered.

-- Message 614941 10/29/74

Pinochet of Chile requesting info re: MDL because he received

letter from MDL requesting data on govt Chile for use in series

of talks before powerful US businessmen.

Info 11/64 indicates

MDL operating as arms dealer under alias "Pedro Garcia" and was

member of Minutemen in Yalaha, FL.

-- List of POAs cancelled. 4/4/67

MDL and Mitch Werbell both on list

-- (UFGA-18679 11/18/64 Planned insurrection of Minutemen in FL area

Monitoring clandestine arms smuggling op directed against Venez.

Source in contact with Garcia (MDL) Nov 1, who indicated he was

a member of Minuteman training in Yalaha area. Stated that if Pres

Lu were re-elected Pres, this group planned SEGMEt in

18K0

---

## Page 6

DIAZ LANZ, page 2

SECRET

11112164

armed insurrection against US govt. Garcia bragged he provided

arms

for above revolt. Remarks made camally.

Memo 11/10/64 - meeting with MDL by source 11/3/64. As Johnson

emerged as winner, MDL became more and more excited. Criticized

LBJ severely and referred to him as an SOB. Said it was becoming

obvious that "they" would have to go fight in the streets because

"they" could no accept LBJ govt. "They"=understood to mean Minutemen.

Memo for Harvey Summ, Acting Director of Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

CAS-63-172

12/24/63

In compliance w/ request 11/6/63

##

Summary of info.re: PDL and MDL - comprehensive.

Last item - Fiorini reptd 7/27 that PDL and Ramon Garcia planning

an air raid on Havan for 7/28 w/ cargo of propaganda leaflets

attacking US administration, CIA, and Manuel Artime. Warned against

2nd Bay of Pigs. After leaflet release, plane would drop six bombs

and return to US. Fiorini was to act as co-pilot and an unidentified

individual was assigned the task of making a press release from

Mexico City. Plans for 7/28 leaflet drop frustrated by FBI sur-

veillance so action scheduled for 8/8/63. However, nothing further

heard of raid and Diaz Lanz brothers seem to have dropped momentaril

out of sight.

-- Message 8/8/63 2337

PDL intercepted 7/28 on his way to Weir Williams ranch, prepatory

to air strike.

As of 7/31 Diaz Lanz brothers had devised new plan to

draw oft any tbi surveillance

Info from Barker thru Fiorini WAVE 2337

WAVEs re: planned raid - info from Barker thru Fiorini -

7/30/63 WAVE 1977 -PDL intercepted by FBI . MDL blames PDL wife

for leak. Di brother, "Johnny" DL just in

from asylum Uruguayan Emb - also in on plan.

6/11/63 WAVE 9611 - MDL invites Fiorini on raid using moppy

5/4/63 WAVE 2379? - MDL trying to patch up differences betweem Fiorin

and PDL and enlist his aid. MDL recvd cable from

PDL in Washington that he recrd money from

Cuban located in Washington.

Raid has no connection with strike palnned by

Jose "Pepin" Bosch. Inof that Bosch said Laureano

Batista Falla and Rorke stolen his thunder by

their strike on Cuba.

-- ISR 10g - ISRM #8521 4/15/63

MDL dopped w/out prejudice

SECRET

---

## Page 7

DIAZ LANZ, page 3

SECRE,

Memo from Carlos Blanco AA-842 9/29/62

Marcos eldest of DL brothers. Leader of family is Pedro

but the one who does all the business deals and handles

the money is Marcos. As result of this, Marcos has

reputation of being little trustworthy when mony is involved.

-- Memo from Carlos Blanco AA-472 8/22/62

MDL very close friend of Slavador Garcia (011er) of UR.

7/25/62 Memo to Dept of Army

Re name check requested by Army 7/12/62 Addl info available

from FBI, INS, Dept of State.

-- (UFGA)-4820 6/27/62

Memo re: Jose Carbonell Marrero

Naturalized US citizen of Cuban birth who reentered US 5/15/62

after 26 months inCuba, served approx. 14 months inprison.Said

to be w/ G-2 and in US on G-2 assignment.

Used by R. Masferrer

• '59-'60 as double-agent, sending false info to GOC.

MDL-(AMOT-6)? source

-- Message

OUT 99988

12/6/60

Report from former G-2 agent that Capt Rodriguez Tamayo aka

El Mexicano and 4 colleagues working w/ DL brothers volunteered

provide Cuban G-2 w/ info re DL group in Cuba in return for $.

-- 5/12/60 Cbl In 38213 from Miami

Re: efforts to get financial backing for PDL. $50, 000

mentioned at meeting attended byAlliegro, Piedro and Faget.

Also reptd that force of men, poss. 100, being trained by

Fiorini for PDL. PDL in possesion some amount of money to

outfit this goup. May wish consider proposing coordinated

action by US got to frustrate this.

-- memo 4/1/60 from

(Jordan) re MDL

MDL left US for Mexicu several months ago, violating parole,

then couldn't get visa to return to US. Aloowed to reenter on

parole, but MbL not told, consequently swam river, made we

back with help of Catholic organization, went to wash, contacte

congressional committee, which passed him on to INS. INS

upset. MDL to return to FL, 90 to INS appointment 4/2.

using name Bob Jordan contacted MDL- no further

"contact anticipated.

-- Memo 3/7/60 from J.D. ESterline

SECRET

Early Jan '60. MDI went to Mexico City and applied for

---

## Page 8

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ, page4

SECRE I

11112166

US resident visa. March 3 -MDL still awaiting visa. Consul

request immediate action. MDL feels he was "milked for

information" by US intelligence agencies then tossed aside.

met Diaz on 3/3 by chance and

expressed sympathy. Suggests resolution problem as MDL

"souring" on US.

-- Cbl IN 30794/

1/19/60

CO met MDL 1/18 where he registered as Carlos Garcia. MDL

flew Mexi from Guat true name. Meeting between MDL and Ydigoras

scheduled for 12/29, day of arrival. Ydigoras out of town.

that he wanted to move anti-Castro acitivites

out of US - purpose for visit.

- 4/7/60 Fl do Havana do said printing reason es for de/ foraid

THIRD AGENCY DELETIONS:

FBI:

-- 11/25/74

Secret

MDL

Wash

11/18/74

MDL

105-80115

105-1962

Miami

11/5/74

MDL

2/25/63

PDL

105-80115

105-1598

Wash

Miami

10/30/62

PDL

7/5/62

6/30/62

Sturgis

MDL

Miami

105-1962

3/29/60

Secret

MDL

12/30/59

MDL

"

STATE:

3/4/60 Confidential

MDL

3/3/60

MDL

#2.108

1967

Mexico City

Wash

3/2/60

Off. use only

MDL

2093

Mexico City

SECRET

---

## Page 9

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

SECRET

LOOSE DOCUMENTS:

11112167

Nothing of interest

DCD DOCUMENTS:

#A095041

Memo re conversation with A. Rorke by Jay Reeves

7/6/60

Rorke gave pitch for Diaz Lanz support

Cb1

11/21/60

(HH-6684

Rorke called w/ into that 15 men led by Cate Diego

will make crossing in 45 ft craft. Will be lightly armed.

Mission to coordinate anti-Castro groups. Rorke and Diego

suspect Fiorini and Diaz Lanz also members landing party

-- H6274 7/22/60

Rorke advised MDL, whom Rorke considers as best poss.

anti-castro leader, taken ill.

Ramon Ruiz, active w/ anti-castro defectors, going

to Nicaragua, confident of establishing operational base in

Nicaragua.

- (WH)251. 6/2/61

Proposed program of LIF (Liberty, equality & Fraternity)

anti-castro org in Miami w/ DL brothers behind the scene.

SECRET

---

