# 180-10145-10158

## Page 1

180-10145-10158

- SECRET

Leslie wizelman

DDO

3/13/78

Eduardo whitehouse

The file contains the following documents and information:

O whitehouse was instructed by us. personnel fur the

inuasion

to cuba in 1961.

@ spears- Spanish, Italian, French fluently.

3) 1959-1960 residence: Biltmore. Terrace Hutel, Miami Beact

@1961-1963-Insurance salesman.

@ Jan 1 1963 - Junel 1964- operations manager-pilot-tur

Panaven Airlines.

6 on Oct 26, 1964- Provisional Opperatunal Approval

@ PoA expired 26 April 1964

@ Is June 1965- file on Whitehouse was cancelled.

@ A It was reported in July 1969 that Whorehouse

and an unidentified American were attempting to hire

.. Cuban pilots in the miami area to fly a F-51 Aircraft to

El salvador. Whitehouse offering to depost $20,000 in pilots

bank acount prior to departure fur El saluador if pilot

agrees to fly plane

to El Saluader and in combat.

(u A June 2y, 1971 memo reported that Whitehuuse was

in miami and had some infu which he would like to pal

onto the CIA.

SECRET

180-10145-10158

---

## Page 2

.... ....:

SECRET

......-......t.r...nn.

Victor Dominador Espinosa Hernandez

DOB 8/26/37 Cuba

POA for Zenith I0/I7/6I

4/18/6I

POA canceled I0/30/6I

clearance cancelled 5/15/63'

zax original POA granta I0/I7/60

28 SEpt. I960-1

for MCADRE for project JMARC

there is a restricted CI/OA folder on Victor in his 20I C# 85593

June I6, I965

Cable From 15-2.

Jorge Robreno aka El Mago on 6/16/65 tald Inu Brengel that Spanish authorities

had allowed him to travel to Paris to see Espinosa.

Espinosa cjiamed lie had been sent to Ra Europe by the CIA.

Robrena was concerned that Espinosa aware of Cuebella plan to assassinate

CAstro.

Robreno said he had word from Cuebella taht Alberto Blancho aka El Loco told'

Cuebella on his return to HAvana thath USA has not helped but hurt effort

Blancho believed that AmIASH group had not recieved any financial backing while

other less organized and with ltd. following had received support.

Blacnho claimed ther group the on;y one with inside capabilities for aciton.

SECRET

BR

---

## Page 3

E SECRET

Nado: Gonzalez De ToRRes AlUAReZ 3/26/34 -

POA -3/10/61-5M/ATE

allen contoct 6/16/64

BRIgAde 2506

3/26/34

Day y Pegs rawsoned 12/24/62

INS Conders Repert 3/67

10/2 67

Rene Car ballo callo Bringies states

he thicks head of tracning Camp. at

Ponchantian was

"El Mexicano" + suna

accompanied LHO to MerCel-.

une ther

rene

C- was #2 w/6-2- - no ide

Catallo- Gamen initiaten -

---

## Page 4

jan. 1963 - Ashmann reprecented Hemmus

on Neutrality violatien.

Michael

M'LANCY

ConNection to Wallace Groues

3/20/01 Ua.

Freport-sure 194>

1966 - Res, o Graud Bakana

Port Auth, Freepont Medical

Authents i Fregaont Educaten

Authouls, o Freepost Trust

Co.

C5A 4/11/66 fon 06C

aduison on offrees

Project E. 1

S87C5A-4/12/72

Edward K. Moss gount ts for oc

Manuel Antonio Varovas nane appears u

FBI LHM. 1/18/61 - Moss as ascut.

gula eini Father ten enter

"Moss mushes

Dina-brother- punted Oc casion Cula

Under Batistan

Cellinis → Moss offer i to

its Varan a Ca mil) frare ante Costo opor

---

## Page 5

Hang Tom son-offered super positen

w/ Moss, but declined

W. townd Chass-busines connecten

moss.

Aneucan Businessman (Moes past Pos. of

Publié Relatin's Sociel,

y America) cartarted

by moss to raise if for

Varona

Goseph h. Miller-w/ Moss- wash.

DINO.UINCeNt CellINI-11/19/14

Casmos Tropicana + RIVeRa

0S. Filer on Wallace Groves

WoRBell

1967 requiet of GC No recordo on subet

SR/CA, RID, 01P/ DOAS

Life Mas

23/67.p.66

MM sues Kaplan

lants (Arthes6)

-SE

---

## Page 6

vatariner

2-23-78

SEGRET

wackenhut

5/1960 - coven for Wester Here here

employees assisred to FLA.

1/21/61- CSA

411967 - severed

No. N.O. afre

201

89885

Frank Bartes = 9114/20 cuba

7 rancisco aNtoNio ClaReNs BARtes

former pres

1161-8119 Cutten Ralerays -

contact use approved POA-SMATE

5/67-904 1017/65-1" Ipilot:

11/15/65-pmfPlotI8]

10/28/66-eaneled

Jure 1962 - BCS N.O. - Laurence foreph

LaBore, Gecald M. Hemming and Howard

Kewneth Dauls pol. Bantes rei tracing

Baits says SaBondo-anti-CIA-

Head I CR C

Now a delesate a MDC Jose Manual Cusco

ANY PRQ II-shous Buite, EEt intonent to de Brey,

---

## Page 7

SECRET

9)

Bantes cantid

June 25 uy Hermy f Sabor de

- Carlos Rodrigues Chuesada reccundita

Alten fon SaBando to pales -

-Leroy collins

IA. Roy 2a. Jaught Schooner fian

LIA. ROY-

LABORDE

references

Rafael Ballestero -Raped City So Dakota

Douglas SinSen -182-1218 Whees Blds. NELA.

Brice Hancode -el Campo Th.

WillIAm C. DAVIs - N.Y.

Fausto Valeds - Haban Fra

FBI

furs 23,1983 repont Barles

Rudolph Richand BAu's

deses 1H40 + Minutemen-

NO CIA

House-

Aberto Fernandes - Key Biscay me

paneque un clege 1 ca

Carlo. DeARmas

nears jam

---

## Page 8

temmy.

SEGRET

10

Shaw in May 9,1961 prossa

charman into ducas Charles f. Catell

for N.O. Forcin Policy assor.

Everelf Gordow Schaoffer (phonet)

allegedly took depos. then fenne -

Roy Emory Hangraves -

2-14-40 Mo.

7/ guy 1970 - OPH A RoyA-

so

o 55 t opedt wy Joseph

Gas quez chief Intel but re.

Plot day

by SATIA60 te missles

3/1/37

Hargraves Mani avrest for sein

smusslios -

SEUM

---

## Page 9

Lawrence itoward -

Henneg -1969 - Trainy 1 Black Pan thous

plis to mexica apparentes en contact

W/ Hally Howand

Aka aloN zo

ESCURINO

sombreaokey-Fla. 12/5/62

PICO RIVERa - Cal.

2/90/67

Quhn Greavey calls on behalf

of Col. White for info Hallt Howed -

Beckham

Prosect Resistance

Itowand.

12226 PiNCUille, EL. MONtA

DominidoR

---

## Page 10

havend @LABORITE

4/1962 dischansed for secunt, reass

former master I TESANA III;

owver also former agent

POR PCSA

3/24/61-JMATE

4/24/62 caroled

8/7/18- AlBerto Fennandez He ChAVaRRIA

DOP contact

12/1960-

: 1/31/66

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Carlos Eauardo Hernandez Sanchez

I960-I95ї

20I File

3rà Agency documents

20 September I967

INS FOrM # G-325

INS file number A-I2-437-215

2. Name check of June 29, I965

3. FBI May I7, I965

Classification secret

Subject: Roberto Alejos ArZU

sents luis Sierra Lopez

neutrality matters -IS Guatemla

Fbi file number 2-380

4. FBI-Octiber El 28, I963

Subject: Carlos E. H. Sanchez

no file number given

when ind Edend Sanches

Nick wiene

'BATE'

Biographical Data

10/15/34

DOB

sp/ 1950- went to N.Y. for I month on vacation

Edueation: I953-I957- Lasalle, Vedado-B.S. Science

1957-59-began studies at Villanueva,

belonged to the A.C.U. (?) met

Artime and

organized against Batista.

Involved In various

clandestine

activities

opened front in Pinar del Rio to fight against Batista,

trained others t

there.

After Batista exiled, Carlos re-directed front to

fight Castro.

(later Pinar del Mt Rio front merged to become MRR)

In February of I959 Carlos went into the Sierra Maestra with Artime to work

with commandos in INRA for three

months then returned to Havana.

July I959- CArlos continued

stuates CRE Univeresty and worked with the

underground

---

## Page 12

G::

4612820: *

L'arIos

Nov. I959- Underground work forces carlos to leave cuba. At the airport, Carlos

with two friends are arrested. and jailed, arrested with Carlos

two friends: Jose Rodriguez

and Jose Quintero.

Friend in high position aided relaes of Carlos and two friends. They continued

on to Miami with

tourist visa.

(believed

that Commandante Raul Arguelles Diaz Chief of DIR(Department of Rebel

Investigation aided in release.

Nov. tax I959- Jan I960 Carlos remained as tourist In Miami. (Front ? gave subje

us subjects money. Cardos soid pistol.

Jan. I960 - Artime sent for Carlos

and Jose ? Rodriguez to Join him (Artime) in

Mexico to work with him on counter revolutional artivities against

Fidel Cistro. (PP( probabbly political propoganda) and recruiting

through Mexican Catholic organizations.

Feb I960- Carlos made PP trip with Artime to Central America and South America.

(Carlos acted as. bodyguard for Artime-) CArlos karate black belt)

March of I960- Carlos returned to Mexico k and then went on to Miami-

(note- inquire as to hotels, people visited, ? about embassy personnel)

April I960- Carlos recruited for P.M. tr ining by ENZEL -Jimmy SMith

(In file others wou Carlos can be turned over to:

_"Clarence"

Roger Fox"

"Peters"

_ "TOM"

J"IArry"

RIP"

Carlos aware he was working for k the CIA

Received full series of training in Clandestine operations,

Raider and guerilla operations, maritime operations, and airdrops.

limited foreign intelligence duties, DRE mission Cuba

Use: PP and PM & (emphasis on PM- supply, organization, training, tactics,

technigues

clandestine, guerilla raider sabotage within Cuba.

Carlos dia not know agency personnel by true name. a paid trainee, with a specil

ability to handle and understand arms-$200 montzy, SECRE

---

## Page 13

BRIS

5323-60-POA

SECRET

carlos. granted..POA-April-I960: OA April 4y-1962.

avocational interests: auto, Judo, sharpshooting

.. so done

(CArlos had indirect contact with Raul Diaz Arguerelles during revolution)

I963-I964- Carlos In Managua Nicaragua z; with z: see sheet #2 of OS notes)

Feb 23, I96I- considered for project Zenith- arrived at JM/FIG

Max given ploygraph for projects PM CADRE

JM REB ARC

area Wi {4 Cuba

Political affiliations: Member MRR

Past: LAR-Legion de Accion Revolucionaria -secret revolutionary organizatioin

founded and commanded by Manuel F. Artime. (CAtholic Organization)

Commission Revolutionaria de la Universidad Cathabica Villnueva •

Contacts with the 26th of July Movement and the Revolutionary Directorate

during the renolution. (often worked togehher).

SECREL

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Jan 3,65

TO:

INS

Requent to re-parole "stranded" Cuban into,

iMS.- li to lettoas a 12/9163--2/25/64, 7131169-8119164

•Apparently should in MaNagua-Nismagua

Caulus-

25-64

El pidro Belgado Soto

25/64

Justo Vento Peraza

-25/64

Agapito Ro)As Canderas

19/63

Manuel SaNtiesteBAN MAZA

EUgeNIO M. PeReZ CARmeNaty

-25/64.

HAROldO MORN RIVeRS

-25/64

25/64. A uSeR RosAles CARCIA

Jose r. Dominguez Medins

Jose L. CAMpAl GONZAleS

Gustavo podriguez CARCIA

- 25/64

Francisco GuzmaN PAstraNg.

Carlos Herwandez Sanchez

Miguel A. RIveRo MARtIN

Radames 5. I RIBAR Mant iNez

Jonge VelAzquez Cardin

SERIE

---

## Page 15

SEGRET

Fron vol. II'

Pedro Diaz Lanz

1963

Pedro Luis and MArcos Diaz Kanz- attempted to make air strike over Cuba

with aid of Fiorini. Subject? able to keep ? informed and information passed on

to local security agencies in time to thwart.

Leaflet drop planned July ixmoot 3I or August I. Fiorini and Diaz Lanz bros.

Palne located at Weir Williams Ranch. Were to use Io0 paund practice bombs

cut down and filled with nuts and bolts.

MAY 2, I963- Marcos received telegram iron Pedro stating financial assistance

received from past supporter in Washington- probably cuban.

Fiorini tola Marcos he could a plane to be used on raid. and coula heelp.

Additional money being raised by Diaz Lanz brothers from the sale of 65 foot

Yatchtl approx. $XTON $ 17000

Sexgio Rojas Santanarina- Castro 's Mbassador to I, naon may have sponsorea

Johnson- Fiorini- Porke leadlet drop.

October 2I, ISSI

December 8 and 9 I96I

D4C. I7, I96I

June 2I I962- Sturgis procures for Diaz Lanz weoens including 57 mm recoiless

rifles. and armunition. foom "upstate" New York.

July It, Il62- Quinto, connected with Masferrer group and Sanchez Mosquera

offered Diaz LAnz 2, 5000to kill Castro. Diaz Lanz declinea.

Sept. 30, I9T7- Cuban consulor official in Janica mentioned Diaz Lunz as having

been involved in the Kennedy Assassination.

This is from Meemo FOR: S.A. /ADDO

From: Raymond A. Warren

Chief LAtin American Division

shiect: [2] HORIZON I -feport.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

-2-

Pedro Diaz LAnz cont.d.

Enrique Montero Iezcano- MC Cuba on Sept.24 staff meeting of Communist Party

in Jamica( discussing security proplems and need to be wary of AntiOCastro Exile

groups mentioned Diaz Lanz- It is to be noted that the lorenz article appeared

on Sept. 20, I977 where she stated she drove to Dallas with Diaz Lanz, Johnny

Diaz Lanz, Marcos Diaz LAnz and Frank Sturgis to assassinate JFK..

Tird Agency documents:

FBI: 2-1566

105-72630

248I

I747

2774

72630, 34768, 2348

97-4I94

I05-I598-Feb. 25,I963

# I05- 72630- April I, I9Ó3, Oct 2I, I963

In June of I963 Marcos Diaz Lanz invited Frank Sturgis to join raid on Cuba

using Moppy for June IS, raid with Carlos Garcia and Salvador Garcia Oller of

U.R.

Nov.3, I963- Diaz LAnz in Speech accused kenneay of being a communist .

SECREL

---

## Page 17

Wizelman-Summary Status

Have not recieved these curcied

82

_ NAME&Fle

- Hunt -OGC

_cartone DDa

_OS.

_cellini

D.DO.

0S

Browder os..

ascarey

0S

martina

105c

um morgan os

moss

OS

-merola

Rotbmaa

OS

REVIEWED

SummARY!

3 - 10-78

_3-10-78

3-2-28.

105ns 3/7/28

_3 - 3=28

nosummay

3- 2-78

3/7/28

3-3-78

3/13/78.

3 - 3-78-

3/13/28

sually a0ng2/23/28

3-3-28

3-13-28

3-3-78

317178

3-13-78

3113/78

3 - 13-28

3/13+78

3-3-78

3/13/78

3-2-78

3-3-78

3 - 13-78

3= 13-78

3-9=78

3-9-78

3./ 28

3/2/78

_SUBMITED

_3-10-78

317/78

000

Withouses

_Growder:

0.D0

Varoca

000-

- Artime

Personnel

Varona

_05-

sira-newspaper

_Benton-so clipping._

_BeRton: 000.-

melaney 06C..

- Martino 000

-mon gan 000

DDO

_moss

masola

D00

..merola

- 00C

_Whithouse. DD.

Narona

DCD..

apparsure

macancy.

D00 cap...

DDO

Artime.

2/1,4/78

_ Benjamin Binion os

2/14/28

Louis KumeroS

Greenspun

3/2/28

3/2/28

3/13/78

3/3/28

3/13/78

3/13/78

• 3./ 13/78

3/13.178

5/16/78

317/78

3/13/28

_3/13/78

3/13/78

3/7/78

3/13/28

3/13/28

3/13/28

3-3-78

-3/13/28

3/13/78

3/2/78

317178-

3/2 / 28

3/13/78

3/13/78

3/18/78

5/16/18

16

5/1:508+9/78

411212876

= 4

3-22-1

- RECEIUEL

"eceiveo

_ 512/78

3/10/28

3/10/78

3/a2/28

Tate sitt

3110/28

318128

3110/78.

Jirt

4112/78

5/-180r19,

---

## Page 18

reviewed

John martiato...os

summary submited

5/161?8

5/16/78

Gerdon-melenden

5716/785/1-6675

5=5/16/728

G quane

Back to

recerved

5/17/78

-----.

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Biography

Arrived U.S. May 5, I960

Granted POA I0/18/60 for participation in Anti-CAstro operations.

Terminated March 20, I96I as makcontent.

CIA has had no contact since then'

July I963- involved in the purchase and cachaing of 2400 pounds of dynamite

IOO pound practice bombs and other material; part of plot to bomb shella

Oil Company refinery and other targets in Cuba. FBI felt ariel attack effectivel

thwarted by seisure of munitions N AND AIRCRAFT. No cri minal action was

contemplated.

Meno for the record:

July 7, I965

Subject: telephone

conversation with Serzio F. Madinabeitia on July 6,I965

Subject called

W/c/51/10

subject

case officer on July 6 to inform him of important information. Kirtax would not

subject

discuss this over the telephone. R.E. asked sorter if he could travel to D.C in

two days, said he could not, but emphasized information too hot to let alone.

Subject was cllaed back at 3:45 and stated information concerned Victor Espino

who was presently in New Jork and "worked for the agency:" and had just returned

¡Irom Paris and spain

and had to see someone in the agency.

Subject gave Eppinosa's address as 415 East 52nd St., NYC phone # HAI 7875.

Subject called again to say Espinosa was at home and suggested someone call him.

subject told Espinosa would be called on July 7.

Alleccia discussed Espinosa with WH/C/IC personnel and advised Espinosa was a

malcontent and was not to be contacted.

July 9, I965

SECRET

---

## Page 20

SECRET

Jan. 1963 - Ashmann represented Hemmus

on Neutralety violatien.

Michael

M'hANCY

ConNection to Wallace Goves

3/20/01 Ua.

FrePorT-sure 1947

1966 - Res. of Graud Babana

Port Auth, Frespont Medical

Authents; Fregpant Educaten

Anthoral, o Freepost Trust

Co.

CSA

4/11/66 for 06C

Project WUMUTUAL

GOD CSA - 4/12/72

Edward K. Moss gount is fon oc

Manuel Antonio Vasodas nane appears y

FBI LHM. 1118/61- Moss as assut.

ful Celini Father time note ten

- Moss mistres

Dino-brother- pinted Ol casion Cula

Under Batista-

cellinis → Moss offer i to

Verona 12 mil) france ante Costo ppo.

---

## Page 21

voracinem

2-23.78

SEGRET

wAckenhut

5/1960 - coven for Westem terphere

employees asusied to

FLA.

1/21/61-CSA

411967 - severed

No N.O. office

201

Frank Bartes = 9/14/20 cuba

284885 7 rancisco ANtoNio ClaReNs SAntos

former Pus

1161-88114 Cultan Palerays -

contact use appioned POA-SMATE

5167-P04 10/7/65-E63)Alsts

1115/65-pmpPelot (Afrea

10/28/66-eaneled

SEGRET

June 1962 - BCS NO. - Laurence Joseph

SaBore, Gerald f. Hemming and Howard

Kewneth Daus sol. Barles rei tracing

Barts says Saborde-anti-ciA-

Nead a CR C

Now O. delesate a MDC Jose Manual Cusco

PRQ II-shows Buite FBI informent to de Bruey,

Уж

---

## Page 22

* 1

SECRET

From vol. II.

Pedro Diaz lanz

I963

Pedro Luis and MArcos Diaz Kanz- attempted to make air strike over Cuba

with aid of Fiorini. Subject ? able to keep ? informed and information passed on

to local security agencies in time to thwart.

Leaflet drop planned July inxxcut 3I or August I. Fiorini and Diaz Lanz bros.

Palne located at Weir Williams Ranch. Were to use Io0 paund practice bombs

cut down and filled with nuts and bolts.

MAY 2, I963- Marcos received telegram from Pedro stating financial assistance

received from past supporter in Washington- probably Cuban.

Fiorini told Marcos he could a plane to be used on raid. anà coula heelp.

Additional money being raised by Diaz LAnz brothers from the sale of 65 foot

Yatchtl approx. $$XION $ 17000

Sergio Rojas Santamarina- Castro 's Ambassador to I ndon nay have sponsored

Johnson- Fiorini - Rorke leadlet drop.

October 2I, I96I

December & and 9 I9GI

D4c. I7, I96I

June 2I I962- Sturgis procures for Diaz LAnz weooens including 57 mm recoiless

rifles. and ammunition. foom "upstate" New York.

July It, I962- Quinto, connected with Masferrer group and Sanchez Mosquera

offered Diaz LAnz 2, 5000to kill Castro, Diaz Lanz declined.

Sept. 30, I9T7- Cuban consulor official in Jamica mentioned Diaz Lanz as having

been involved in the Kennedy Assassination.

This is from Meemo FOR: S.A. /ADDO

From: Raymond A. Warren

Chief LAtin American Division

shiact: (s-T. HORIZON I -feport.

SECRET

---

