# 180-10142-10319

## Page 1

180-10142-10319

varmas Batbrasa.

....201

nclusive dates..195)-1975

summary

3/2/78

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

1- categorize aul file. on Rothman- as "former withing

collaborator (relationship terminated), OI code A3."

(As 0. 17 ?

18.75

From back at File

Four

a-bernes pages

..of. legal pad notes- hand writen-nodate or

author given

Appears. to... be notes from an interview, but it 13 not labeled

ire who is - being interulewed. It could be Rothman ur.

DauaL m. maconnell. The

first entry sett is

"1. David m.mcconnell

£d-38716

Charlote,. N.C..

2727-P0B"

The second entry..... " Norman Rothman...

Americcin citizen- DOB NIC a? DeL !9!4

_ Runs Bar Bel-Air hotel

Owner.sans.souci,night.dub, Haugna

Dispute.with.brother.in-law.of

Batsta, Moved to... province Unen6-4030

425. surferde Blud..

sounds like its an interview with Rothman.

The third entay is labelled"Items". and lists several pornts.

Item a- "Cardenas plantation- ammo dump

roth.claimsable blowup.ifw/permissiun.FBJ

BasR. will assemble operators for pb.

Item Bi "Can set up bases in Yucatan - $50 - 100,000 cost

strips for B-a6/ napalm...get FC

Ar ango boys to staff deal."

180-10142-10319

---

## Page 2

Item C...

"Assign B sub targets - can handle w/

... Latin friends..

congo Flap cutting into recrust pool."

•D-"Clarms analysis Inuasion Hop".

e. "Claims know Pao, Berancourt"

f= "claims his contacts

can get into chinese commiegroups".

g-" suspects Patrick.op

as being funny and ill-adursed".

page 2- labeled "R" lists a...

a". 425 Surfside Blud j Belair Bar- Cubans Frequent -

blgra.

ex-inuadors..; Batistranos ....

"Francisco trend-executed) Rogelio Gonzalez - "Francisco"

warname.; Sori marion (sp?)-business acquaintance

Efigenio. Fernandez (Or) associate

c-" Apristi (peru) group= contacis.

mexico-Cardenas- contacts. ' opposed Frente,

story.re camps-malcontents/ shootings', Cardenau-

commo.ua..mexitrienas.Lastcontact.y.-s.munths.aga

@

mexi trends.. in contact with triends; has met ;..

Last met. ayrs ago Acapylco; Has wis led farm after

Acapulco; Has been in Yucatan; Last. there 1959-twodays

claims Indian fienas...

Sanchez Arango:

Has met;. Last met six weeks ago

In lastyear-ca. 20-25 times

R knows triends!

"Garora" and " Tito

---

## Page 3

=3=

d'Re sub-Targets:

FC. Target:

......

Invasions.(congo)Fly.ers...names..

save 100 air target mexico

monroe.Am.Emb checked.out Ran previous aharge.

claims...arrstr1p. in existence

(Austin. YOung -R. "personal pilut"

e- Chinese commie Grous...}.

claims groups chinese commiest going into canada

from Cuba. Orps in Peru) Lima- ca 2 yrsago.

f-Cuban Assets

How manyagenrs.?

How.manysent.last.grge

At date- ca. 6. who in Travel business ?.

Export Business

Nature et Des. = Coast. Guardi asked R re infiltrations/.

ex filtrations. at Bel Air interview;. also re stipments. Also.

askedre Puerto Rico:.. Capability re Black market money

exchange - thru.6."

6- Dominican Republic

Last visit. -1959. Purpose.+Batiste. Commo toassets,/

cuntacts... John. Abbes askéa e do joh....".

h-Gun-running

"Claims same people /houses. used by CIA in thare jobs for

which @ prosecuted.. Claims shipset

40 shops fur

Frente- CIA trucked.the stuff. up-he (R) loadece.

Purchase 20 ft "Reeter"'- pilot baat to underground,"

---

## Page 4

and,

3: DBF 35028 15 oct 21°

"New Anti-castro organization with has, in miami

at Biltmore Terrace Hotel, managed by subj. (Rothman)

Who.is supposed to proude

sour.ce.thruu.s..gangsters.for

1400+59-400er indictment

-guns and other weaposs...

Pitsburgh- Interstate

Transportation af stolen arms,"

10 Dec 59- "Goingto

rucatan.mexico...to.seek a

Isite for a base of sperations against the castro guut."

310ec59 - Sub afterreturning. trom mexico cuty,

reportedly remarked.. that

"Wehausastrip" "Acompatriot

of subj: Eduardo whitehouse, is later sald to remark. that we.

have the planes." "Beireued that both subj. and White house are

acquiring.- planes for purpose af setting up base of operations

..in Yuratan Peninsula fer

anti-castro..groupheacled.by.cov.

Orlando. Piedra... ara Roberto Fernandez miranda.

23. June 1960 - conurcted of interstate transp. of firearms

stolen. trom Nat!l. Guard Armory -canton, Onsu. sentence:

5yrs, and $10,000 pne.

after

5. Feb 1260 = subj released trum Allegheny County Jail-appeal

buna posted....

32 Sept 1960 - "Approuch made by subj... Who is hood

indicted for gun running

and stolen bond currently out an

$50,000 DUnG. # FBI

contact. felt subj: interest straight

..profit motiue ur huge

Favorable treatment re above rap. Also

delieve inspite of deroil!

into subj. could probably prochuce

two. Mig arcraft which would be brought to states

by one Crech and crile Cuban pilut."

---

## Page 5

5-

4- Whitehoure Insua, Eduardo Julio

aça "Teddy"

..compatriat. of Rothman..

5_ April 1960= report = subj (Whitenaue) lost us. altzenship... by.

voting in cuba. He & Elliot Spinning... Intended to tale B-26

...to vera cruz....

Sam Rubin (bellevea to be identical @

Sam. "Streten" Rubin= Chief doorman at. Bultmore Terrace Hotel!)

reported.owner.0f B-a6. Rey # N3.244G.

31 Dec 1959. US custon serea B-aGat miami 8 anothar.

(N28816)

Babat vero Beah, when whitenuuse & Spinning attempted to unave.

1a Dec 1960 -Whitehouse- pilot who.

in 1960-respensible

for setting fire to sugar crops from air....

Asked by Alberto Fermandez

for help ya-Fernandez ha)

set up a guerrilla. organization for ex-employzes.

-whitehouse...formerly.head. or.cuban cru Aeronatics

Administrahon..

13. Feb 1961- According to.. Alexander: I. Rorke, Jr. , Whitehoule

has 20 pilots aubabled ready to take draste action agarrist.

Castro. & have worked uut a "detnite plan of action" to

accomplish

"Castrols.ouerthrow.i

s. Orlando & Preda -201-247879 a in an aura.

cuban Nationzl

8Jan 1960

According. to. Enrique Fernandez. Parajon, both he d

Subj. (Predra) are heading the "military Section" of the

counterrevolutionary group which is recerving monetary support

from Batistci."

umar 1960 - subj met or planned to meei @. Gen. Jose

Pedraza during. the latter's unsit. to washingtón..

eportanases say specklagent, (on 27 ma-1961) of the NiO. FBI office who

---

## Page 6

-6-

- member of BRAC

- Fled. Cuba 1 Jan 1959

- tatever 195. a Oct 1959- recered orders from: Batista

by Jose suarez_ Nunez to immediately attempt. to........

.. consolidate. whatever anti-castro forces he is able.

for a move against castro with a particular arted conditions.

6- miranda Fernandez-

& march 1961

Adam tted in 1959- £11960 had furnished aid

directly to Rolando masferrer. Now prouding aid ....

8. assistance. to his former military regiment uno arestal!

.In cuba... working against Castro... He thinks group is

associated.

0.FRD.

X.7.. Dispatch

...Cable to Dirèctor. From. mAsH.

MASH. 0828

..sept 27,1960

"'FBI has advised

.af.approach..made.to..Frank.Frori.ns

.for.procurement.of.twol.mIb.arcratt..which.would.be

brought.tostates by.one Czech. and one cuban pilot.

Approach. made by... Norman Ruthman... who is hood..

indicted for gunrunning and stôlen bunds currently out...

on A 50,000 bond. ".

....2. "FBI contact tet Rothman interest

was straight profit. motlue or hope fur. favorable treatment.

re above rap, contactstated, no chance irateuer latter.

and that had aduised forini that FBI could not

handle such a. deal but would pass. to other

---

## Page 7

..unterested

Mes. goust agency. sald that inspite af

above...derog

infa_beleued...Rothman..could.very.

.probably.produace.

(.entire.cas./e)

3, Has H9s.asy interest pursue..

8r Sept 28-1960-06ble

To JmASH From. Dirêctor-

pelensina offror: Rs Gomez /Ned Holmar

- signatin

orig- v. Inier

Authenticating.of.fer - Esterline...

...CIte DIr 0a972

reponse tu#7=

mAsH. 0828

"'If Ref para 1 plan.

..Involves detection of mIG

and Crech pilot tram cuba.

Aduise all.pertinent.details."

Hqs. untally interested.

(Entire Cable)

from

9- IMASH

respons

a9x2

Oct 149- mass Sie

cie mash 0891.

#1.view.Rotbmaw.Forthconingtial.locai.FBD.feels

Justice Department. be

acuised..prar.any.cIA contactsubj.

This. to-prevent. any complication prosecution it op succeeds

and.rothman.attempts.make deal...re possible prison.

derm.

2. Per telecon agi sept mash acuised Has santiago

Rey.also.approached...by Rothman.withsame..plan.pef.A.

If. tgus.. Has decides. go ahead with sos, mash plars....

make contact through Rey."

what

10- ..From mash to dir.

Get 20,1960-

mash 1162

Request replies to rets.

References are masit Oba5;

= MaSH 0891) - "FBI still has. Open,case Ref A. and has called

several homes.

"Also desire give positive. answer tu

Santiago Rey

...on Ret B."

---

## Page 8

8

ll.... memorandum...tor

recora...

subj.:.Norman.Rothman..

Gated 30 June 196/..

preparea by Catherine la Maistre

A-DOB - 26 DEC 1914

PUB-Bronx, ny

. When Rothman first came to cIAls attenton in

September... 1958, he was

...uuing in Dallas, Texan ana w.as...

allegedly engaged n public relations work. According

to his wife, Gloria, ne made a bre-week trip to bos.

Angelos in September...un

undisclosed business.".

3- In OCtober 1959

Rothman was.manzging the. Bultmure

Terrace. Hotel in... Miami

from.wheen

he was reportechly

the FBI to be supplying

with arms. which he obtained

ananti-castro..organizatzon

through Us. gangsers".

4. "Following Pittsburgh conortion,.

Rothman.wentto

chicago, where he.... surrendered. on charges of playing

..akey role in. one.. of the biggest... robberies in modern....

crim... history, the 13,5 million A

looting of a canadian bank.

Robbery.was.touched.offwhen.the.canadianbranch.ot.the

matra recerved. a hurry-up.. Order... from the caribbean...

for arms... The canadion malid did not have the money

to buy arms, but. it knew. now to sac get handsion

...the contents of the Brockuille,. ontario bank.... It called

..upun the u.s. mafici...for. assistanse, and it. was then..

that Rothman. entered the picture, it ul charged."!. *subsequently

portions of loot turnedup in shanghai, Argentina, luba.

..@sustral.c.

continusy...

---

## Page 9

-9-

s- " Betore... Rothman

was.tracked.downin.connection...uththe.

sooue crimes., he .. was

reported.by. the FBI. as traveling to bucatan

to seek abase... of operations

against the castrogoult. In this

enterprise he was associated

with. Eduardo (Teddy) Whitehouse Insua

formerly at the cuban Gul

Aeronautical.. Associations. ex=colone!

Jelando

Piedra Negueruela:, furmer member... of BRAC and head.

rCuban..Bureau of Investigations ; and colonel... Roberto Fernandez

micanda, brother-in-lau...af Batista and former... commander.

of the presidental guards as well as president of the vatione!

Sports. Commission. while no mentún... is made of Rolando..

masterrert in this... connection,. Rothman. has engaged. in many

exploits and deals with masterfer.....

6- "In September 1960, Rothman. stoll Out un $50,000 bonch,

nade an approach to. Frank Florind, solcher, of fortune, offering to obtain...

wa migs -one floson by..a crech and another by a Cuban. Fiorini felt that

interest

rothman's perise

was stimulated by a straight, profit motue. or by

ropes. for tavorable treatment regarding the Federal case ogainst him."

7. In Oct 1960 R. again appeared in pallas, where de approacho

lobert E Grinnan, an oll contracts promotion mzn...

Rothman claimed

o nave connections. with Nor-Roth. Industries. of NiC. and stated

hat clients of his had an... interest. in purchasing ' millien metric

ons of diesal fuel oll and one million metric turs of cruce or l

o be delivered over a tive-year, perrud. to Hamberg, Germany. Grinnan,

unzled by the offer, reported to the FBI.

He went to waY in Naember

nd met rothman and the other principals of the deal, a mary

alley and a Dr. Phillip Paneth. de Panay. Largely because of

innari's suspicions the deal was neuer consumeter.

---

## Page 10

= Simmons cleased

heré in 93 per

Tow

call from Kathy

1110/9?.

8 ....

"As of December 1960, Rothman was twing in Dallas, Texas,

-memo. trum

takers i-natennotes

Subarons

1a- memo.tor Deputy Chief- WHDiuision from claris

re meeting with. Norman Rothman... & David m. mcConnell

datea June 30, 1960)

met@Rothman.and.mcconnell.on.a4June1961.in.oftie

of.Deputy.Alty.Gen/tolevaluate.Rothman's claim to

operational assets inside cuba. and elsewhere in the.

4-6:30

Caribbean.area.

59 P.M. Agreed that R would return

to. Miami

...un Friday: 30 June, and Mr. DcConnel!

would.phune.simmonj.on.July.5..for.evaluateun.uf

"Rothmany operational potentel. in Cuban affarrs."

McConnell spoke.tosimmony@privately.mcconnell.descrisecl

smseltas a.

"leading politeal.... figure in the Democrate party machine in

u, carolina, that he was acquanded @..Pub. Kennedy, Gen. Taylor, Gen. van

Fleet.", corporate tax lawyer's concerned over embarassment.

to the

Kennedy administration. caused by the Cuban "frasco."... McConnell stated

that Rothman claims to have assets. and capabilities which would snable

Rothman to... destroy. the arms dumps on the plantatin of ex-pres-Cardenzs.

ss mexico, to setup operationa!

..bases in the bucatan at a cost of50-

21000; to sabatoge targets in cuba identited by the us gault

and to provide positive intelligence on the acturtes of Chinese Communit!

groups in the Western Hemisphere."

Rothmanstated o castro hace executed 3 08 his close friends:

Rogelio Sonzaleza; Sori marin ; Etigenio Fernandes.

continuee

---

## Page 11

2- operational capability

cardenas....He had: agent. assets

contact asrecently.as.4 to

mevican.friends....

to..destroy..arms.aumps.or

in mexico, said he made

..months. ago. a

3-constructed.an.aurstrip

-in the Yucatan., burlt

by Indians One B-26 had landed there.

y-.well-acquainted@sanchezArango.considers.him.

a good. persunal friend.. Last met @

- 6 weeles ago...

5=had_thepersonnel@capabihhes.to.atack.cr

sabatoge.any.target...of.our.choosing..incubu..Henad

abase plan fur. assass, of Castro..

plan called for an

airatack@napalmagainstcartro

when he was addressing

arally.....Had 100 pilots.. uno hack

participated, in inuaden

..OF. Cuba & nun working for Congulese

Arr. Force. Woula not

identity pilots.....c..

6- sald. he had many agents

Sara he was in contact

..6 agents

¡going in. dout.ut Cuba...

at this time.

Agents were in the tourist.

...JTavel

business ur export import

businesses , entered us via 3rd countrie

I-knows. of many Chinese commünists.. going into

Canada from 64ba,.

8- expressed resentment ouer gun running cher ges. ".: said.

that cA used the same people in there gun running acturter

cor, Rahmer

and the same houses, for which he

was being prosecuted..

by the federal Government, Hesaid that he had superuised

40 shop operations. On behalf. ut the Fronte against cuba.

He said that cIA would truck the stuff to the point

---

## Page 12

Summoss

Releasedhere

in 93 per.

12°

Katky,'1/10/97

of.ship.pick-up..ushere.be.(mr. Rothman) would.

supervise. the loading.. of the ships.. He said that he had

-purchased the aul ship |"reeter"..

which.wu the first...

boat...

to support the underground... in Cuba... te addec

that he knew everything the dIA planned in

_ maritime operations, and for the inuasson."

9-close friend ut John Abbes Garcia, Chef of.

Domimican.Res. Security..

..comment by Simmus - did not believe euthman's clarm

..at controling. agents and material assets....

Recommence,

no.further.discussiun@Rothmen.rethese.clcun..

13- memo for record - subi. norman Rothman

10. July 1961

prepared by Catherine.

3 Lemaistr

...- During Batista regine Rothman was superusur of.

.slot.machynes.n.camaguey.prounce.under.the.natiunzl

supervisur,.. Albarto Ardura moya, Who was one uf

..Owners of.

Tropicana.. Nightelud.. in Havana.

indicates as af sec l9d0. Ruthman buing in Dallar, but

recent reperts. plaie him

Miami

Rothman's silent partner in sans souci - Eu femio Fernandez Ortega!

---

## Page 13

DDO

summary

3/9/78

Leslie wizelman

ED Browder -vol 1

Volume one of the Browder files. covers the period from 1954 10 1961

A may as, 19554 cable pes from

reports that Browder

was born in

Amarillo, Texas on June aa, 1917. He has a lorg

record of passing bad checks and has been conuted twice

in federal courts fur violation of the neutrality Act and theft

of gout property in attempting tosend a planes to assist

in the revolution against the venezuelan government, Under

the name of Edward Sabatino, Browder obtained reservations

in the Hotel monto cassino in mexico do may 6 sfor

info... this mani considered either soldier of fortune or

provocateur. and into wanted on his activity by Havana.

Other Browder aliases: Edward Browder Sabatino,

Eduardo sabatino, Edward Sabatino Olivier

In aletter from Browder to mr. Hendy Luce: (nime-Life,, dated

11-15-541 , Browder offers Luce exclusiue rights in full coverage

of revolution in costa Rica, Browder offers to send a

C-47 to Dallas to picle up two of Luce's representatives.

In the pis. Browder says he would like to have George sulk

on this assignment. A Nou 19,1954 lelter states that

a wire was sent saying "setry cannot undertake."

---

