# 180-10144-10412

## Page 1

180-10144-10412

2/24/78

Pedro Dias haar

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE./.

I.

201

#-24 out 59

Routing $ Recond Sheet

to Hunt reud 30/10

forwarded

z Nov.

of Diar lauz fle.

-aA watch office 24 Often by Pedro Diaz Lane to

по Tat das P

drop laflers and prob bombs over Havana 2400459

hay fey 26 Oct 59 piloted by hans to disrupt

castro raly.

- Bispatch...

23 06859

kaflet.

attacked-_sample.of

ba/lets dropped fron Diaz Lani's

plene 21 oct 59

- Dispatch

18 Sept 59.

Ne: operationae

to Chiet WHD from Havana COS

DL

Crypts...

PDL

said he had fore to hians and talked w/Di.

Bess; who told him that he needed a man

to his Miami arganisation, me resus an ad

in the luber sir

to join him....

He instructed.

Force who was mill bara contact and the.

The subject to see his.

asked tons

had This

Station

assumes

10144-10412

---

## Page 2

C

2/24/78

Lanz.

exfiltration info from.

QD CHAR

Subi

also

said thes

QDI31AS has ODXOKE

contacts

.in Miami

ODACID

- DOC. Cross ref for 201-259120 (Lanz 201 file)

Ricard

Luis LORIA

31, pRosport 0955 $ Diaz Laur

valle - ca.

128, аз

age 32,

passpor 10693 keft Costa Tira for Miami Fla 0

24 Dec 58 and

Mexico on 31 Dec 58

re entered costa Rica from

remo. for record

7 Ang 59

prner ams. From Ecuado to ur & ex broter-di

of former president Galo Plaza of Ecuador.

Moscoso told me in strict confidence that h

..frend Eeuador. Amb to O9S (Escudero)

faimed to nave into aus dacam proving Diaz lan

rca approx.

5100, 000 from pro-Batista (rosos to depe

I resify

sepore U.s. lony....

- Dispatch.

(karnley)

7 sug 59. To Chrief WH DiV from Mian

QICOVE

Re: Meeting n/ @DBAS, Q DCHAR,.

which bear Batista taiht..

positions in the Caribbean Sea.

---

## Page 3

2/24/78

Pedro Draz hauz

DDO

ODCoVE- described at leater of group, most intell

Group was cautioned about need

for security.

"However, There it a close and apparenth

unshakeable

relationship with people like

threat in.

talles too much. But as and I (Sic) we

proceeds with this group, it has to be done with

That he and

to negotiat deal re:

Deal cost so mil coh

8D love persmally paid the lettes of credit.

- Dispatch

4 Aug. 59.

To Chief WH Die from Miamilkarni

Report or briani base involvemeo in Arrival of

Pedro Diaz Lans in U.S.

Lazz party- Diaz Lauz his nife Tania, Sergio Diaz

Brech; carlos bchegoyen..

Echegoyen: Bruell had

charsered boat to pilk ap bias cant. wanted to

roca part

no pay severed laye.

- Diaz concerned

ADALUM, GARBOR assiSted hiding Diaz

Mapr 0710 07

Army nsited,..

nanted to talk

Diar.

aeoprte.. GAs artemptsto. It him rest

Tentative plas...

was. Diaz world taken From INS,...

put m a.

secure. plece, mored to another area

in country, put three mtensive interrogation

ther removed to foreig are whene

he world t

pasfaced... Gen Cabele expected to discuss matter, Su

---

## Page 4

C

2/24/78

Pedro Diza Laur.

DDO

re: tur over of Diaz to karnle

complicationo the

ser in different versiono of.

what pasted betu.

Gen Cabell and ben. swing; appearance of Eastland

commitee rep.

warah Post = 7-24-59-"Defectne.

Cablemo

remo. for Record

15. July 195%

Pe: Tomony of oner Lane.

(testified 14 Fuly

Erdel, Rane, Vilma Castro, Ennedo Guevara, Anton

Nuner, Armando has, ranul Pineiro, Arma.

Ramiro valdez, fan

Escalona,.

Exelio Gomez ornon,

David salvador,

fur Lanta carlos Franqui, oe.460990

Bayo, Frank Torre.

бо. Гана.

article Mal 59. "verdadera

Estatura cinica

Pedro

Dres Dias Laur

CIA Memo of conversatio 10 Jul, 59

Tel. conversation w/ Herbes irce

Dir of intellig

Bureau of Inmigration w/ T.I. Flores

- Draft hemo for Record Fek -(inittaled)

Re: Diaz Lanz case

ridmi which was used fo bring Diaz trom Cuba, had

gone

t0 see Byes. immed, after.

their Helase

were acompanied t, trank Pine, is

---

## Page 5

2/44/78

Pedro Dier Lanz.

DDO

cirzen "/eputation as shady ondressan

They said schroeder (INS) told Diaz her is to

senate sab committee; would

receive 100º% us fort support in overthronin

Castro..

- Prion 10 Diaz departure the lasan fir Force

purchased one c-46 and one B.25 airert

in Fiorinis name...

віді в іні

o hold 246 for revolutionan

foriniasked. Byes

plans i sell

3-25- (Forini accompanied y Sergio Diaz a 87

Dricussion

Paper - 7 Fwh

• Diaz Lanzanis. s.

Re Diaz-publicity e

- cable from die to feign LA stasino 2 Ine, 59.

-Requests max. press and radio exploration of

defectin 20 Fune of Diaz Lanz

w/ recommend

tions on particular of story.

Dispatch

2 Faly 1959 to Chief WHTS from COS Hasan

re Diaz Lanz-Misc -

enclosual- 2 copies of lette

fron Dizz lanz. to cuban president..

Cabla: 22 June S9. TO Dir. from Havana

Cable.

DURGE. not aruege.entry..

Diaz Lanz

21 Fune 59

to Dir from Havana.

Americar,... Pres. Aerodex

w/.help.of. tim Borge,

Re: Diaz Lans departure Com useng iner yach

Lanzequests no publickly.

---

## Page 6

(

2/24/78

Pedro Diaz Lanz

DIO.

Sufamation Report 15 Fun 59

Re:

Chief of tim Forces Confidential Statements abret need

for counter revolution afainot Castro.

source: US businessman

at length wy source regarding symptoms ot

Castro's communist tendencies.

Cable_ 7 Jan 594

to Dir from Santiago de Cuba

atrocities..

a court manialed. e

"Soare

Fiorini Fl From Diaz hanu Chief Repel Airf

Cable 25 Nor 58 to Dir from Mexcitina rickon,

Rept 3 tons.

Cubow rebel arms confiscated

lAmerican captured - of Abans- Pedro Ruiz Lanz-

_torini

probat Diaz lanz) and Amer= Frank Bion torini kno

named co-pilot and onner plane c-46..-

Picardo de la Lorie

Cable 22 Nor 58

rept. Casaw rebels and Amer. w/ C-46 captured at

pattinga timpos leichoae.....

Captured (passine Got)

anz, ... Frank Fiorin

- Cable 14 Nor 58

Rept Richarda de la Lorie - brought air plane phoen,

Ariz., scheduled. for departure 1z on 13. Non Por...

trainer

rex. enronte renezuela.

Diaz cant will frob. accomp

de la horie.

- Cable: 11 Nor 58.

$ DiazLauz

Ricardo. de la torre

Vin San Francisco: Fiorini left hex

---

## Page 7

C.

for Frisco b

cap. -

car night 4 Nor. meet pilots.

De la forie and Diaz

_Ariz . but expect retr

fovemos Horl - P Rinpuan, triz ne plens.

- Cable 2 Nou 58 to Dir fron hex Cior

Mantrav. W/ subis identitiedad Ftank Rrorin

Men prat. pedro huriz Diaz Lasz and Ricando de.

a horie, poss. going henezuela.

- Cable_

30 Cet 38 to Dir from Mex Cit

Ric. de la corie aud Draz Lauz an

rex Cit br Car

21 0t 58. Believed had asa trouble at bordei:

Unidernfied man accompanied them

Cable_

temeica Megs to Dir From Sin rian.

addresses.

ire uesoned Biguero 14 thy sechiny identi.

ctacka.. 7

Diaz Lanz,

ise of Brecherathi peane N-48-9, who esits ti pfice

Castro_conrier or pilst.

persones preetings.

- 201 file request

o RI Analesis section.

nou sensitive

5 Ful 1959.

...-Dma de conoomamencoeLmog titan dacdiat d oalddlila eancrehe eaee araaha

:: --:----0 -------.-----------=00-------0---I=.-..... -.......

---

## Page 8

sanitized

PEDRO DIAZ LANZ

DDO

- News artides -

курс, мес!

- 1976

News - 21 April 1975 by Paul Meskil.

(

- Dipath to Chief from chief DEITER-GET FUL

Progress_ Rept.

1-31 Aug 63

Piorini- able to keep informed of

bros. in aberipts to monus

air raid over cuba..

• Information

Then passed to local security ayencies in time

for them to thwart plans.

- Daily Summary altng 63

Postponed to 31 Ful on

Plans:

1 Ay....

" Fiorini to head

р...

Mara now kays as decoy for FBI suniler

Lans bros to leave cars at home to appear as

se used. or raid I loateh.. Fiorini seud

dane un camber bombo made sor

size and fled w/ nuts and bolt for straphe

Ranor partie lame cuban airines picor

- 8 may 63- Fiorini told souree he had bean

approached. by Marcos to patch no differeuce

and cooperate in. "anti-casso acting" Sais

---

## Page 9

C

beoney from cuban in wash who had helped.

air strike

Pedro would be pilot.

turn indireet channels....

-Aanz bros. assong m

sale of yacht.

"Forin had been working

v The bros. until, a talling

out tion is now ens dent being repaired. "

мето - re

Robt Swanner, Tobt Thompson-

R200

20 Mar 63

allegedly shot down over

Сива т.

Dec. 196г.

- Memo to S.J. Grogan, asst to Director.

Wm Johnson,

hampered ly stories =

бианне., Богіпі

for leath

drop...

- Rorke Claimo

8 Dec. swanner mtercepted in hassan tet in

perit +-50441021

Porke, Fiorini.

Tried to get

fey to Great Exima Island, out pers

nied, plane impounced

10 Dec...

сарек pound or.. Norman a

14 Dec. Thomptow fleu

to 77 Laudedale to pick

swanse s Thompso flew A

Andros Island.

swanner

and pease unts har 63- story plane shot den

---

## Page 10

C

Porke dain GA Sponsorship.

March 62

denied.

midication. from Castros speeches

so what happened.

e a meefereness, induding:

into on other "elements of incident as

having driver....

swanned,

Ft Lauder dale to lori

fonnter.?

boat w./ leaflet

$500.00 checker peptain

Miss. Thompson:

chechen pental, siren to Swanner,

- Mis. Swanners repta trip to Andros Iloud

w her for and friend of her husband.

Thumpson i Others.

callo to his. Swanna,

- Role 07.

(Gradsky?)

Gene As bury and Norman Gratsk,

Ref. to rantino -prob. John Lineent Martino

sen 62 5007 De as sept nas nata

was. not,"

nor ampld.by CIA

---

## Page 11

boluine.

12/9/60 Cable to Director fr. wAvE

Hamilton impressed of mans sinleites potential

(aDBIAS ROBIAS enthusiastiz over ref

trip but wanted very careful preparation in

order to avoid any poss. fail. Suggested ample

advance puslicing order condiran lost

and landing permiti recesar eas

QD Bias speeding up work on A/S Which

can be ready 0/A 15 Sec. Plane

can accomodate number named WAVE

2951

/s comment: H@S approved planning

Diaz hanz propaganda "Flight of truth"

as proposed HQS by TWICKER

12/9/60 Cable to Dir fI WAVE

Carlos Oscar Echepyen Leon plans expose

in leading magazine re: KUBARK

wilsay- RUBARK backing AMIRON (Ray or

MRR) W/ funds & equipment AMIRON

Leftist I comminst dominated froup.

and "Fidelittas sin Ride"

KUBARK

gives AMIRON tialf milion per month

cover operating costs.

Rereal number plans

---

## Page 12

Diaz Lauz.

ve II

Varone

AHDIDI

turnished AMiRON by KUBARE and

location.

• will reveal training sites Guat, PBAVE

personnel working w/ AMDIP I and

AMIRoN plans for invasion Cuba

- Expose. AMDID, for buying off

KUBARK perfounel Wash.

- Claims discusied above $ 5 Nov 62

invasion plans AMIRON from Guat. W

Sourina, late det 62.

Two men from KOBARK assured

Echefoyen funds would be w/held

from support AMIRON. Capable camy.

out threat

once close Diar lanz, but how

distrusts himn:

could attempt dis credit Eclegoye

6 Dee 60 cable To Dir from GOLD

recommend candidates to certain fielder.

Laure: Enrique Laca

snident - For Ignacio Taro

•Soldier - Manuel Artime

Professor - oscar de la lege

Cathol. actiz: Enrique Ros

GOLD-Sounding out opinion/desirability:

of induding Diaz hour specifically.

---

## Page 13

Us s5000 obtained from private sources tor

trepair BUS. Further states aircraft.

repd i lans intends make leafret.

droe on or about 30 Nov. Possible

KUBARK funds passed AMVANGE

foor prop use how being diverted repair

aireraft.

3. HAS poliey re no ODyOKE sponsored

overflight from BPPRIME SHU Stands.

MASH requested take immed. steps.

to stop flight. If cannot accomplish

this by persuasion natty.

local auth

poss such a fet to table them

impound aircraft. Essential aurid

poss. such indep- air ops jeopardize

our air ops including use ope

4. Reatize haur may be polit. arset.

It so can best be used that purpose

w/in AM RASP.

WH. comment: Twicker statto Lanz

requests funds to repair personally

onned 3.25 at CoSt of Us $5,000,

Also wants Us 82, 240 to give hink

training to 9 pilots to 3 mos.

---

## Page 14

6 Dec 60 Cable t0 IMGOLD Havana to

Dir.

Rodriguez Tamaya "El Mexicano" offering Gz

info ne Diaz hanz group. Report would put

subjeets I in prison, dains Tamayo

Claims female friend Dras Laus working

Miami airport abso G-z aunt

- suffest biaz hanz be cautioned re our

donts loyalty his immed. friends.

-Dispotch 29 NoV 60 to Chief WH diu fr.

chiet Os, Havana.

varona says of laur - "a yourg man,.

somewhat in pennons, who is how

working with us.

28 NOV 60 Cable to JHASH from DIR

"1. Disapprore para 3%7 ref. HQS does

no+

desire additional cuban pilsts $ does

not wish fire Diar leur and company

false impression by instituting coen

limited training program

AMVANG2 advised HOS he passed

---

## Page 15

- Cable 24 NOV 60 to Dir f +MASH

1- Diaz Law jined AMRASD brilying

pilots: Abel Hera Corton, Frank

Forini; Francisco Lano, Evangelista

Mursuli, Ramon P. Fuentes, Nesto

Awarez, Fernanco barcia.

Marcos Diaz han also joined

2 Shortly after joining AMRASP, Diar

sygested to AMHAWK est. 07

spee. mission group compres

above personnel, all of whom,.

according to Diaz are qualified

as Ale mechanies. The gong

would drop AMBASP leafrets

smal touns & cooperatives & could

Hy cargo mittious when required.

3. To prepare themselves An standby

radiness Diaz has requeded

AMHAWK (FAMHAWK. has gueried

Twicker) for fundo to: (A) rehab

the personally. onned B-25 A/Co.

Diaz at cost of approx: DLS$500D.

(B) Provide piloteN/ Link

traine time 18 pilots at 10hs

monthly, at cost of D/s 8 per

hoar) and (c) Counce purchase

---

## Page 16

of Hoas equipped Cessna 180 /or 210

bor infil /exfil ps.

#. Dies is proceeding w/ B-25 rehab

nia loan 12,500 from Mignel Angel

queredo, for which, accorcin

AMCHIRP-L, he win air drop

Bohemia over Cuba.

5. While ralize present polic

precludes US -bused flights, desire at

minimum maintain flight

proficiency this integrated fons whose.

current i future activities could be

monitored & directed by the newly -

established joint CubanAmer op

section of the mit. commision.

Beyond being a pilot, Diver Lanz excide

a certain mystigue which The press ha

been prich to recos. Thas he is

current propaganda $ polit. asset

as wele as a potential milit. asset

6. AMHAWK commented somewhat

eunically That Diaz Lane oined

to solve hi

econ. probs. However TWICKER blier.

Diaz highly motivated i recognizes

---

## Page 17

AMRASP as mainstream anti-Castro as

Temp. solution has been to assign Dizz

go to transport commission, which how

functime under MIL commission,

but tunds are not currently budgeted

Ar link trainer time

7. Regreat Has approve initial link

mainer refresher of Dis 960, 15 his

each pilot, then monthly cost of D4S 640.

Not likely training to extend beyond 3 mos.

1. Tell political advantages Keeping Diaz

satistied and cooperative well worth

above relatively minor expenditure.

- Document transfer $ cross-ret. 27 Sep -60

Diaz Laur made offer ofansist by susi

of. 201-829376

12 oct 60 cable to Dir fr

Re: developments in FR

- Dr. Sanchez Arangs hers left FRD follonsing

a disagreement o/ other leaders. He is hon

joining. forces w/ groups led by Diaz Laut

conte Aquero.. I others.

- varona appta coord. of FRD - in Spite opp

Fusto Carillo.

evelopments re: fiflize in Casa-

---

## Page 18

Memo to record re: Rept recting w/ segio

Raiers:

=00

Bril

in trail:-27-52-pr

Spoke to Rojas before planned to departure

to triami to see Pirando Lorie, in an

effort to give other side Than Anti-FiD.

Rojas relatively objective but on balance

tavored Wed yourg revolutionants tik

manza de Libtacion Analyzed Sitat

7 MRR accurathSAMBIDDY-

became rep in FRD for MRR, ther

reprisanted on, oun views to excluorn of

Men interests lamented That number of

young men ce Chisea,

Diaz Lant,

Lino Diaz (Besum.,;

wasted by

not being put to use. top as result of

differences beto. young revol. & FRD

"Los Viejose Politios in FRO 100 far to

right. Asked it us might lend

support to more Them the group. Was

tea t mitten type perhapo

trianza could se fire suppora

Regas

cool: not poss. This time - Too unti-

ERD sentiment. Tell poLiticos of FRI

reff-reking Young revol suffering bitterness,

---

## Page 19

disillisionment

Rigazzested post meeting with FRD-memses

but not s principals- lounter suffers made

Rojas suggest friends, es: Conte Aguero, horie

to approach FRD again

- Memo 19 rept 60 for: C/WH/4/cI Fro

Re: Requesl for BBi checke

(NOTE: Ans. to check on Moya in Panegues file)

Mianza people reptd in toun - Diaz Lanz

Conse Aguero, Parague (Drejo), Moginio Nino"

Diar. - could be reached at address of his

Anna Moja:

Indicates. Revd into that

Paneque may be lastro plent fest

Buro check on house and firs.

loga, a

we as furnish into on Panegue and la

activittes in US.

Panefues NX address: San Dafac HORd,

65 w. 450St, RmIE Tel-JAZ-4800

Memo fov: C/WH /4/PA

1 SEPT GO

tr: NH/4/E0

Re: Cubans desirous of meeting a/ State Dept

Reps..

Senor Chinea, Pane que, Diaz Lan 3,.

conte Aguero desire meeting. Indicates st. Dept.

-personnel have no desire to see Casano.

Author

indicates desire give Casans cold should

---

## Page 20

no encouryement- cannot operate independens,

w any type of Us suppot on amn sance

- Cable

GSEP 60 t0 Dir from MASH. : rexilit

Sadicates "Caris' in military statt -

relations AMEER $ alanice AMCIGAR

times of auth. I reap. MASH committees

badly snarled view recent insistenc

AMEER has perogative as AMCIGAR

member

General ill feeling & distrust senior AHRASPERS

toward AMEER also applies "his boys"

In military field there include oscar Dith

(ground) ,

orlando Garcia (recruiting)

and Pelipe vidal santago (navad:

Most immed issue - Pedoo Diar Lanz tho

walked in reeruiting ofe last wik august,

volunteered to join AMRASP pilot group as an

individual. Milit afreed Dead hanz fine

pilot, joining AMRASP political plum"

Since he founding member coppeting Hiara"

Nobregas and lilatana only

lukewarm.

At juncture AMEER Stepped in, ordered MILON

accept Diaz Lant, succeeded puthly all

senior mil. staff member in depos."

Carme still unresolved.

плитать

---

## Page 21

AHRASPERS afree meeting absolute necessity, to

revalidate Their positio noà nI AMCIGAN 60O

body i parsicant Their positions in respect

midindul ANCIGAR menses (AMEERS.

AHHAWK:

- Cable Ang 2a, 60 to Dir From Havana

Parale: Armando Lore Hernandez - Miro man.

He was close to lane Chiban; maintaino contact

with Draz Lanz. orf. resistance in Cuba. Regres

aritance

Cable My 1 60 to Dic from Havana

Disseusin in AMYUM-I group more

extusive The financial troubles.

Lone/AMPDDY

split caused serous internal reperlissions

in terms AMYUH-1 group reining via

their channels from MASH That ODVOKE

now supporting Lovie, Mino Diaz, Diar Laur.

I PRD form-control de Personal - PedroLuis

Diaz Lanz

Memo for Chief WHD Re Mex. Roaste (sce) Fr

6 Fl 60

fr. ED Esterine

In interniew of Porke w/ rep. of 00/c in NYS,

Porke said Diaz Lanz most desering of U.S.

support. Kuono Diaz Lanz; planaig da

---

## Page 22

appear on T.V. program NYC 57ahp.

Said Somna have afreed to fre Darlave

mil. base in Nicara. Will call it Committe

to Rescues. Ame from communism o

similan:

Porke claims Spille

Brada

tentatively agreed to sappot

committer

- Cable 28 tune 1960 1 1184 fri Dic

Pedro Dear Larz not connected ERD in au

way tankley will brief. WH Comment: concened

rustacing in Cotta lica of orf. headed Sy PDL

- 'offre remo

- 24 Je 60 to Chief WH/FI Divisio

ATTN

From: Chief contact

00 (L/A Branch)

Div imo Diaz Lanz.

From

- signed 3y

In interview, requested by land to aok "colat

people Think 8 should do expresed desie to

work to over throw Castrs..

Reservations about tristworthless of Artime

- ressage to the People of Cusa & Brothers of

America of the Casan Constitutinal"

Crusade...

Signed 6/16/60 54 PDL,

---

## Page 23

Ands Abel Hera Corton; Capt Rabel I.M.

Bonzalez.

- Cable 18 tune 60 20 Dix fri 148H4

18. June Diano Las America: camies:

ad surfacty roup called Cruzada

Cesane Constituciana Seed 5 004

conson, Gonzalez.

table indicates concern for need of controlled

3, coordinated propaganda effort.

Avoid premature releases

- Dispatch 12-Fanbo

Chief NH Div, from Miami NHD Rep.

Re: Contact w/ QD Bias 10 JAN60

by Patrick 1. Kannley

Indicates bitter fand betw. QDBIAS $ ODCOVE

ALSO QOCOVE asSaulted DICHAR

Drscussed ODCHARS recent trip to Grat. QDBIAS

aware but personally opposed the

CHAR took alony Sarge Bruel and

Finini. iNs took Fiorinis passport wher

he re-entered the US. Apparently

they are "prepared to throw the book at

Fiorini" Fiorini in real danger of losing.

---

## Page 24

his citizenship

Gnoses no also taly action af. Masteren)

Indicates ODCHAN has ided of lus ons,

and ABBIAS does at try to stand in

his way.

7 Ful 60 M

10 Dir fri MissHi- Cable

PDL. abont to initiate fund-raising

main to go

Suggests tense ai/ XDI GORAS

obnous probs arising out of premature

support

anti castro novement generally,.

PDL Specifically

WH Comment. Ref in dirates Diaz latre

preparing launch offensive afainst Castro

from Guatemala

13 May 60 Kable to Dir tram: MASt flavana

Kepts- PDL plans to land wel prepared

fore 10-150 Cusans. ASAP- poss- end of Ma,

13 May 60 cable.

to Dir: pr Havana

Rept MAL broke contact W MAR

due discores it heavily penetrated

Note: ref: cade stated br. Santrago

Rey:

Rerna rept bray group of Cubano

---

## Page 25

undergory quenta wassare training

Miami area under command Diaz La

- Cable May R 60

to dir fri Miami

Action: W45 C

WH Div.

notified 2035, " May 60)

1 bummary activites POL indicating action

imminent.

Repreeting discussion betw. Aliepro,

Piedro, Raget re: support for tal -

Us 50,000 mentined as goal, Not

Kwown whether funds handed over to

PDLthQ: Repti funds obtained

Rept - force-perhaps 100 men, formed sy

PDL

Under superiso Fisrini- PD 11 pose

28site considerable fundo-

some Porzin

550 grando since

much equipment issued to men berr

given field taining out kirs trian by

Morinis ten raceinated. Have 2

boats, 2 aireraft at their assposal

Believad DL contemplating more

directe, from FLA to Cuber Gast.

mentined - stagens base for expeditio

Contacted EBI.,

Border Patro re: development,

They will contact Flower PDL Unde

---

## Page 26

circumetance do not intende to contact For

myserf

sufgests close attention both psychd. $

polit. implications of such expedit. morema

by PDh. Question railed whether some

netion should be taken to "sasmarne"

D. Ls plans. - in premise "Wellest D.

Thoroughly discredited both in Cusa $

a more resp. exile elements i has consiste

provided "effective peg from castro fort

propaganda" I effect move buIl at

This time might have on THARC

planning i timinion. Ass, Imperatin

of pors.

accomodatin w/ ouat. Gort

an PDL need caretul consideratio.

"In light of poss. harmitue results of

PDL Venture, "may with consider po posing.

coordinated action by U.s. fort to

frustrate this before it gets off te

fround."

News article triami Herald 10 April 160

"Is castroi Time Reen OuT)

- Memo fon DC 1 ha DOP 30 rad 60

Re: C/A involvement in case of races

Pres lane, freen Deping Director el

---

## Page 27

Cuban Reuse. Air Force and Applicant for O.S.

permanent resident na.

June L resigned no thief of Cas. New. AF, Red Is

Us. Manor went into hiding..

tavarosked for hel

to Us. Exhiltrated him ma skipping line

•m lampa, Fla 27 Jul 59, Depriefed

in Tampa $ Miami Presented himseef ar

INS ofe., rani, regulong asylum which

was granted

Wife i Whichen left Cuba Any 54 for

rexico then joined MOL on 248007

59.

MDL Left Us via New Orlans for RexCity

to obtain as resident noa to

permit him to go into business in

order to earn living: INS wouldnt

allow him to return.

Kept Schcars rebuttal Fa

Get commen

frombentithat CIA said MDI mtendo to

untinue warlike Tactisithe is ablato

reten to the US:

- Cable 26 March 60 to: Dir fromriami-

Re: HAVA 3740

See PDL as forlory bewildered, outcast,

Excommunicated by ODCOVE tor involing

Self W/ Batistiana.

hetate sign Cajigas

Pedrara "Unity" pledges but was clearly

---

## Page 28

3/9/78

in middle that cireus, finally kissed off

by Pedraza as little boy playing mans

fame. OsCOrE pelin son tor old friend

Has don odd he could still se of lise to

Tem it willin tale indes, avid Pusticit

Believe inclusi

be somewhat menace

Memo for the record 21 Feb60

Re: telephone report from Miami on Activities of

Franesco Caji gas

Indicates PDL conferring / Cajijas, who & planning

meeting in Manana w/ trito Somora

Dispatch to ChiepWH Div fr: Miami WHD Rep.

17 Fes 60:

Re: Summan of current

QDB/AS activities...

writtew by Patrick

Karnley.:

Meeting 18 Jan.60 - ABIAE visited Nicaraguan

Emb w ranguer-sterling in wash re:

assistance of ricaragua fo militan

expedition against Castro

Having difficult a/INT re passport Diresse

by attinde of oDeNvy who reminded

him they could arrest him at any time

---

## Page 29

Awthor talked to DDENy Me: This matter

ADBIAs andrag rejecting scheme to meet

Somoza as arranged by Luis Atenas

DoCussion N/ QOBIAS re: Cuzada Constitucional

Cubana (CCC), QOBIAS One-man crasada

Not intended to be organization

[Karnley charactizing PDL as very naive, a

base in the woods" in these matter Pullet,

hurting him; but "by no means a

total loss" ]

- Dispatch

- 2 Ps 60

To WHD Nep trian, Havana, Caras

ter: ehief WAD signed - Oliver G. Galband

Re: Meeting of F. Castro N/ Gustavo Machado

in caracas as reptd by PDL.

Requests inteniew of PDL by karna

"in most minute detail"

ni knowledge of contacts rachade

and castro....

as repta in Parade,

Lash Post 3 Fan 60

---

## Page 30

Dispatch 18 Faw lo

48): Chief WH DiV

FROM : Miami WHD Rep.

Re: rept of contact w/ QDB/AS 185an60

Author. Patrich Karnley

Into re meltings beta Nanez Portuando

and PDL. i: Whether or not Portrondo

illing to lend suppos to military operation

led by 9DBIAs W/out politizal commitinen

to Ninez Portiondo for fature

DOL discussions re: est. non-profit 8og

to raise funds for activities

vote: celorio, who who would be involued,

told AMBOAR about scheme, but used.

name Kleburg, suggesting comsine it

KLEBURG -LYKES - STANDARD OIL WAS

some how getting read in to thit foop?

Dispatch 12 van 60

To Chiet WH DiV

Er Miami WH Rep - signed Kannle

Re: contact w/ QDBiAS 10 Jan 60

Amory item:

- PDL consideing torning military nit to.

infiltrate cusa for action of GoTt

- Dispute betN PDL, QD COVE, ACHAR gria

---

## Page 31

Poi had protected OCHARO releat tripto

buatemala w/ Segio Bruce and

Forini. Forini-question whethei he will

be admitted back to U.S: ODENVY

ready to throw the book at hit.

---

## Page 32

"Political Action File

(Jan 1961-

- Memo for Ofc Legis. Counsel 11 NOV 77

Tr: Raymond t Warren, Chief LA. DiL

Re: Allegation by Senior Cuban diplomaT

concerning role of cusan exiles in the

assass. of Pres. Kennedy:

- no further info to supplement the ipo.

May have been repening to either

Pedoo a Marcos -

Noses assoe: w/ sturgis, aricle of

20 Sept. 71 Me: horenz allegations

-Remo for Of LC 3 NOVT

From Chiet LA DiN

Re: same as asore.

Repts - fairly reliable sourer said senior

---

## Page 33

Cuban ciplomat statoned abroad, made

charges in Late S80 77 10 his colleagues.

that Casan exiles such at former Gus. Air

had bees involved in assass.

Divition belieres basis for statement presume,

article a 20 sep 77 in NY. -horenz

allegations

DO Document extract - 63 8 NOrT

Fine 63 Mareos DL invited Frank Forini

to join raid against cuba 15 Jun using.

moppy ounce b

raid. carolin s845 01380

Garcia, salvador Garci

0/ex 07 UR

I9 for Dept of Justice - 9/8/1.

POD 1/8/26 Alien Deg# A_10 176 -250

SS# 261-542581, Havana Cuba

SPOUSE: carnet Izaguirre, Tania:

DOM 1-2259.

-Doc. transtes -x ref -

17 TAN 69

Former head Cuban revol. At interested

making trip cuba to sine Russian stip

- Doc XJer - x ret

26 Jan 64.

Reptly working w/ Felipe Hidas Santiago

---

## Page 34

on projeered raid on luse which was to

onginate trom Miami area

Memo to Dir. FBI ATTN S.T. Papich MJAN64

FR: DD P.

Re: Acusationo mady by 7DL.

- Rep from this ayency reud info ll NOV 63

from untested source concerning melting

D+ FORDC in NYC on 3 Nor. 63 turing

which DDLs made folowing improppin

remarks:

- claimed state Dept asked him to

woot w/ them on condition he male

no pub. statements accusing

Castro of being communist

regrets

Frank Benda,

but refiad.

Bender now offered mayorship

01 Marianao.

- Accused Kerredy of being Gonent

time of being Communis

= laid lubars had fight alone -JFK

admit would not help. Said

If the US gos were to give one the

to the exiles, the exiles would be

wise to make sure it did not fire

back thrn the stock instead of there

The

baree.

---

## Page 35

orginal dispare of above-

With cryps.

to chief-spec. Affairs Staff

fri COs IMWAVE

has handwritten note - for the reeird

Bender never neet cans, who was

handled by the PH. section of the

project at That time -

10/1/64

Signed

same mark

-800 XEIF X-Ref - 31 Ful 63

POL mooled in abortive attemph in air

strike $ baflet raid on Hasana, Cusa

squelched by ODENY.

=

Doc xPer $ X rA 12 Fune 63

6 Fune 9,63 Marcos DL. invited Ronini to

join raid af. Cusa to take place weekend 15

Maros. Othes goin: Carlos Garcia s

salvador Garcia Oler=, a ER official

- Trace Regrest 18Apr. 63 FirPoR

-A "Subject is dropped a /0ha prejudice.

---

## Page 36

-

DOC X fer $ X ReR 25 Man63

Draz owns 2 P.T. brats in diami area-

Re: rettu by suby. of 35 tt speed

boat to anti- castro gop.

Doc XJi 8 X Fep - 23 Fes 62

Subjeet: Movimento Recuperacion Revolicionaro

de Cusa. MRC.

Diaz kanz Came to didmi oftire w/2

companions, Reinaldo Cruz y Blano -

'SIMON" - MAN of 1220

Recently acquired 4 boats tern Hampton

Roads Salvage co of Talla hassee.

Other companion not id'.!

Cale " res 61

to : BEn

note

Efom: WAVE

Re: into that It Col Oscar Diaz, Chief

Pers of MILCOM Conspired to slow up

recruiting - discredit recruiting team

Found

Diaz manipulating recordo $

was sabotaging behind MILCOM and

WAVE Cornment:

PBPRIMES back.

tridence turned up entirmed intrigue:

braz

---

## Page 37

- Doc Xter & * ref

- 05 0eT 62

Re: Anti-Castro Activities...

Info:

PiL spoke at meeting held at Baytront Park

9/29/62 - tok Cubans idea of recruiting

eusans "creamed up" by v.s. to keeptooling

the Cusans. Claimed Cisans had sen

tricked secause they did not understand

what was foing on.

Trace request

30 Apr. 62.

After discussion betar a rep. of Mis Agency &

The Dept 0f tomy on 28 May 62, 1

Dept of army has agreed, in new of

into contained ri our Agene, files, to drap.

interest in Sabi:

- Biography PDL

Revol. activities begun in 52 whew he started.

running rifles into Cuba for Prio.. 53 exiled in

Miami until 55, and Stasted fennyin anot

Castro.

58 appta drief of 26 Frily AI..

held until defection Je 59. Leaft drop

Oct 59.

Not knor to beloy inany polit party.

Formed am movement-Cec but was unsucces

ful in obtaining support; considered by FRi

---

## Page 38

§ other moderately liberal groups as including

some ex- Batista army ofticeo.

Repta in April

1960 Diaz had committed cce i self to grou

headed sy Marquer sterling: However,

subelguently CC merged a/ Ariazza de,

Liberacion - amalgamation of several younger

gromps as liban exiles..

Although contidered

somewhat of aa "hothead" does have considerable

stature as former Chief of AF and recently

he & some of his followers accepted into FRD

Currently - Rember FRO

Endorsed by -

Ma Braden, Mr Colligan of Freepat

Salphur.

- Memo for: wH/4/Finance

5 Jan: 62

Re: orerdue Aicts.

Pedro Praz Lanz - 8400 passed on 19702 61 00

ex pense money for a prop tour taken of

heis CONtE Aguero i Others...

Plan called for

use of Diaz Lanz's plane piloted by himalar

chanyed found too difficult to set necessary

permits to plane.

Finall, come went,

alone when PDL, balked at being.

CoNtes

shadow. reantime, Diaz Lanz dabbling in

polities, appeared sefore senate committe

and succeeded in making himself useless as a

---

## Page 39

con

call

49633

offe

Alders.

647

Ate

5376201

propaganda asset.

siped, Stannard Short

Cable to MWArE from Dir 6 Euly 61.

request IMWAvE review reguirements for use

Pedro Diaz Lanz in boat ops; Feeling here

he indiscrede and would compromise

missin

DoA not initrated.

-

Aldo vera note - iden w/Mir Aido Seralin vera

former undeground leader against Batista-

Held follouing positions w/ casto gort

- Head of Dept. 01 Invest: of Cuban Rer. Police

-Cusan Army G-3 section

- Chiet at GS of Cuba Army

- 29 Apr 60 repto as one of ofticers in

charge of caching arms in various

intervened houses in Havana

- 2 Jun 60 repta replaced do Shop.

General of cuban Teren. Army;

not named to another pott

-21 sep 60 reptely trying to est: contact

w/. oppos.-frps, but in reality a

govi agent

- Dispatch - To Chief: WHD FR: Chief of Bad,

IMWAVE

Re: "IM of April " Movement

Organization to be presided over by

---

## Page 40

"mihtary junta" - not one leader onh. wy

both members of Rebel army and Batista

Army

Diaz Laur does not hold a steady posiTa

because he corsides hiniself a "Leader"

rather than a "soldier"

Believe info on secret meeting of group

leaved to cuban gor Sm Aldo vera.

- Intu. Rept 14 Ful 61 Rei Cuben counter.

revol. Base

Rept - 250 free Cuban troops é 7 aireraft.

based on ssla de Mujeres Off shore of

Quitana Roo Province, Mexico. Plan

military expedit. - included:

PDL

Felpe vidal

Tentente (ENU) Chinea

- Dispatch 31May61 TO Chief WHID from

Chiet of Base UMNAVE.

re: Freuzas Aereas de Liberacion (FAD)

All piloss & members of Air Force who were in

camps had a meeting during which AMCLAtte

E spoke i said they had to hoed an

electior to appoint chief 0f AF I laterto

present it to AMBUD-L.

Arguments enshed.. Capt Perer did

---

## Page 41

Luices, Garcia,

Нежёна, бою,

Kennen, Alberto.

not agree w/ Thotype election. Lett

meeting o gip of me.

thafand tener also spoke Here than

half persons lest.

AMCLATTER-S elected as Chief.

/ Fist election had siven votes to Diaz

lanz, AmcLATTER-s and Others. PDL

reptaly tried to take over, Caused

feastance..

SPelt they shouldnt have

allowed PL palsts to Lote in 18t

play - Called for 20r election. Wels

FAL menses loyal to AMBODI

- Cable 23 May 61 to BRU from: IMTIDE

Info- author met numerous cubans in

Miami-apparently pilot. Expressed

interest in petuning anthor to sha TIDE

to "stay proficient in flying PDL

apparently....

creating disturbane,..

"by try. t.

take over."

Good stable group of men.

"The hard core mill remain tojether as the

same unit and will be and are ready if

needed."

---

## Page 42

Dispatch 18 May 61 to Chief WHD from drierst.

Base IMWAVE

Meeting of labans in Bey front Park, Lian

Anthor-Stanky R. Zamka

- May 61- Meeting in Baytont Park

P.DL ed al

I attacks Not tens Manl

Artime

- Cable

I May 61

To BeLl from IMWAVE -

7 indirduals of Diaz hanz gre berry said

total of 81500 mo..

by.

AMIRON

Gip not active & some have not picked.

up April paychicks.

Request authonty crop group fro

AMIRON rollo effective 1 May 61

at discretin WAVE

- Memo for AMDIP/A

28 April 6.

Re

conversation w/M-Josep

Newman,. Ny Herald Tripune

Reptd 27 April 61

Author: Howard Hurt.

Discussed THATE Mates -

---

## Page 43

" separate tast from perm on au ole he revol

Discussed several areas:

Ricardo Lorie - PDL -

These, men alleged UA had five

mauricient

10

Loviló boat

1 demander details of op

aps out each tme CA. chose

course was followed Their boat

was interfered with by Castro

gunboats-

Hunt explained reasons for cIA

procedures - diminate duplicate.

$ compromise of effort; avoid

hostile monitoring of communication

Coast Guard interference; provide

resoue en emergencies.

Artime.

horie / Draz denounced Artime as

Castro penetratin ajent. - Bolstered

by newmass recollectin that

Luan OnTA was believed to have

said Castro once daimed an

afent high in counter-revol.

Oireles

Hunt. explained torie.lostontin

MRR power strygle; PDL

pelt personal resentment, politial

indictireness. Artimes futher was.

a communist, but tere

mimes more

---

## Page 44

fomative yeax spent w/ senits.

Aurelian@ Sancher Aranga.

re: attacks of UPC by Sancher and

Atino Diaz.

re story that CIA had not kept its

agreements is/ Diaz, making it

imposs. for Diaz to land lus

fore in Cutta

Hunt. "S explained what really

happened..

Eloy Gutiernez Menayo-

Gutiere

de: alejations that renoyo & fT were

detainedat Methen, Tx to appease

Barista 4 Trejillo partisano

Hunt explaised nove to Tx decided

On by iNs be insure sately

of Outerner; assess grps conflicting

talls: Gip arvived too late for

inclusion in militan program.

Revol. Council complaints.

rei gen. theme that Us had wot

lived up to its commitment to

provide air cover for landings

despite pre- invasion promise by Pres.

Kentidy to provide this unselle

Hunt explained IC looking for

scapegoat. Said Pres. had made

---

## Page 45

no such positive commitment to Re before the

invasion... Pres. dispatehed MSSIS Beret

schlesinger to MTO in NY prior to invasin

to say Pres. lad said quite the contrary.

Said. pesonal internewe betw. Poes $ RC had

taken place on 19$20 April, in fact.i

As to lack lack of protective air cover,, HH

Cited failure of RCS B-26s to eliminate

Castro air forces during 15 Apr. Strike.

"muse" as to fault for lack of second

mop-up strike.

Said bads in Guate

mala becoming untenable - open fa

oppos- congress. inspection by 18 Bpr.-

Newman - declared - realization Rat it

wasnt sabotage by communit afeats -

"We sabotaged curselves!"-

newmar expressed interest in tH

identity. Conceded hes had hever

heard "Eduardo"

---

## Page 46

marco's

Dospatch 25 March 61 - T0 Chief WH Div from

Chief of base- Havana

re: Anti-FRD activikes of Carlos PRIO

so carras-

Brio held meeting ? Mar 61 at Everglades

Hotel, liami, da..

Made anti-PRD

statemento to press.

Men who had been planning action i/

PDL, Jets him, joined Prio, since PDL

lacked resources.

Dispatch 3 Mar 61 to Chief of Base, IMWAVE,

fr. Chief, WHD

Mancos D.L: anticipating anest for anti-com

activitilo, made advance preparationo to

nave one of his amason contact OD/BEt

ofe It. Douglas Attle Leth bridge Aguilera,

FAR ofer, of one of These reps.

Marcos stated that Let ridge trying to

get names of Russian NKVD ayout in Cusa

& when he has penetrated com. ors inCuba

he will disclose Their plans to serine."

- Doe X fer $ Cross-re - 28 Fue. 63

inoowed in poss. aireraft bomb and

leaflet raia on Habana Cusa to talie

place on 28 fal 63.

---

## Page 47

Memo of meeting held at home of

Lian Carlos/ Nemerto Rodrigner,

2-26-61

PDL, Juan Caros, Com. Gonzales met,

decided Diaz Lanz Start out for

Cuba Believe PDL good name uTH

help get Amer. assisfance

Psh expressed bittres toward

ERD and Antime

Cable - 17 Tes 61

tO BEL fr. WAVE

Neither PDL nor AMNORM -1 recollect

keoning Enrigue Molina Rivera AKA

Arturo Morales Y Rodriguez

Cable 10 Feb 61

TO IMWAVE fI BELL

PDL passed 5460 advance by Has durig

trip ARMETAL. WAVE stoned obtain

accounting.

cable

3 FCs 61

10 : JMWAVE.

FR: BELL

AMCORE 2 / ADBAs returning Miami

4 Tes... As result inability obtain nisas

---

## Page 48

/ permission for plane, tour to be made wore

Or both via commerciae tights. Fion plans

caringent alleged AMDIP- I offer to ADBL

make him replacement for TAINT / in

AMIRON OPG.

AMCORE 2 reports

opered post as prime ministe

make tour regardless

Subis will cal choaden to contaet.

instrictions WAVE Co When assistance

needed

Routing i Record Sheet - I Reb 61

NOto: Re : PDL.

'Diaz Lans would cause increased

morale problems at MADD

Possibly could use uni careall

" No interest to PMODs".

- Memo I Feb 61 for WH/4./PH./AM

Re: PDL:

Met w/ Midael M. Maney (WH4/Prop)

to aok it he could be pilot in FRD Air

Fore -

Author recommends PIL would aid

greatly in creatiy esprit de corps

and circipline

---

## Page 49

Dispatch 20 Fan 61.

To Chief WHD from Chief of Base TWINE

Re: Frank Fiorini- comments se: alleged

plans of KUBARK.

On 4 Fan 61 Mir. Joseph A. Forties,

Superiting- Custome Agent in Miami, sent

attachinent A to local Chief of KUrUMP

who in turn sent it to IMWAVE

Inasmuch as the content of Affach

A appears to implicate PDL in an

unfavorable manes, CRABANAC

investifated the cases susmitted a

memo dated Than 61, AHtach 8

thief of Base aqueas a conclusio

in Para 7 o7

-'Altachment A.

writer and

interviewed Sturgis On Dec 30, 1960 at

his residence

2080 SW 60T Court.

Miami, Fla

Alan McDonald

Close assoc of

Fuges, also present Ziorini said BUS

seized by Customs, used for baflet trop

on tavana, retuned to him after

payment of charges - 82,800000. rose,

---

## Page 50

he had turned over the airplane for use by

PDL. Dot was at air cratt almost every day-

preparing plan for good will tour" of

central Ames. countil, to se sanctioned

oy KUBARK

Writer told Fiorin he was prob. being

duped- trang open talk that US supporting

group-always n out toundation.

orguestion torini said he spoke to AuBARk afnt

bugt The name of "Barker" of 4420 NW.

sin st

Office contacted PDL. for cooperation

PDL was adised Forini was internewed

earlier That day-

FD expressed

concern that Fiolini might get involved.

in way that would impair plans of

anti Cho to promp..

fice making report secause /dose talk"

on Fiorini might have adverse effects.

FBI had earlier interciewed born,

presumably re: "Similar u/008e talk"

-Attachinent B-9 fan 61.

- Alleged 42,800 payment i presumed to be

part of money fiven to.

PDL

by saralegui.

o personal loan

---

## Page 51

2. PDL, preparing hir aireratt for the heielo de

verdad.:

and instrections given by him to

aireratt techniciano induding poss. use 01

natt flajo an hose of aircrap would

confirm Diaz intendes to visit # of

countries:

3. Barker says he met Fiorini on oh se

oceation as a froup of people & has

ever seis him seme as since

Alejed address of bunke prorided

by Fronni not correct.

Fiorini has lost confidence of PDL$

has been treating w/ such people as

Rasco in an attempt to involve

himselt in anti castro activity.

NaH. PDL expressed concer

Fionini

"Night fet involved

I DDe alleges he $ his people hounded

by federal ayents whote interest in

peans has been pigned by plane

overhauling airies & that these

federal officials asked leading?

provocative guestions.

6 entire Exec. comte of 7RD as well as

---

## Page 52

propaganda commission, hilly acquainted

prepatory plans for flight and it it, thor

fore; not straye plans have become khon

outside

That immed. Gap

2. However, a review of Customs rept, together

w/ above, would indicate that "the

essential element of plausible denial

still remains::

Tut Cable 10 fan 61

To Bell from WAVE

Following Chron: applices to prepatory actiono

for PDL trip -

selet flight tip party; obtain usad.

landing permits;

establish flight muting-

Lift gon afency restrictimo on PDL and

aircraft. FRD send lter of

instruction to FRD delegations in host

countries outlining adiana prepara-

tons necessar -li Special egriput

for plane -

PDL suygest tape

recordings be made at local stops for

mailing back and use a swan

Expect conciet han dunny wk of

9 Fan.

poL will handcarry.

passpors... and fliglito documentato

washington, obtain was $ landing

- permits i submit results to

---

## Page 53

Choaden Who to finalize Plaglet roube

Have toed QDBIAs aim a IS fan takeof.

tho realize That prob. optimistic

---

