# 180-10143-10070

## Page 1

180-10143-10070

SEGRET

Buefing

2| 14|78

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

ремка оз .20

Operational its op

DUCTION:

Trace would de antit

she pressed inder dele.

lace ofee - its he judgement wives deterine wrette f

I no wests of continuing intense, 201 may set it opinea

not open a 201.

If there tge of info. corner in, it would go into index

te are cetaus erterla

1) Resultreat

2) High- Here Irmurict officials

PRODUCTION

PRO. P. I -

, PIII -

The should it a dor undeting reactas way a pa, peere is not

There should be a refere in Ist yule to dowrent in and file if

there. is one.

0001742

SECRET

PAGE

COPY NO.

. of

10143-10070

---

## Page 2

lafo: in PRQ I is in. elected fromottes.

would not contain season; would

doe the reavor.

numeral man he sigures givings ыт.

Morally PRAIEPKDII WoUld UNet In the sasse fele. I PROTT Cotta

ритаму ор. про., tee it would

maistalked is separate file,

made

petral nes

He entice 201 would have

limited news?

Іже таже i cryptoryns de not maintaused ts the same cheet

On 201 Me. form, there, i nose for a cryptony, but it is not

filed in a take nose file.

There is a tale of contents bat of what to available in 201 file

This is compiled from abeteet reerd lt in complette systion

The Wit lick: Info gattered art result of SIGINT Or CONTAT.

K Hit Check: Alro a sypalate click, but luffy docent know what it cleeks.

0001743

SECRET,

PAGE

COPY

NO.

01

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Central

Core Stil

дение ти, слы,

If that purse th

Hold is some manner would, de a

not gost, agesy o for military,

од.3

345-Preys bed sta

he co-id. of a ploject is which sott the EAs

To the wait is cIA wolt, ills would the stall Tet to

not to say that pie would at have moe copese cles.

Wile

shaster-

- hey are estate lip, tige itizese

Thotos of pirateet peter

Photos of Ettlets

prehe spe weld set be of steed

PIL: Zuserved i linited - sees to communications which ave

Opening of Pi channel of comir. Is destinised by ore f 3 persons

_is of PCS, ADDO, OLDDO

0001744

PAOS

COFT

10.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

This has always ten thee - In sortic times, it may here deen restucted

Tis coamuniction may, in tive, he downgraded; may never te destroyed.

Is it possible, is costept of a at tilet, in lace of an hypotts al that sap

would not he compelled u.

not the compiled its a 201 if there

Pseuds: false name

ypts: weld to id; alla

ry degrask, yollowed by group of letters

You cannot arugs a cryptonys w/out daving a 201 #

Solde is das given away mil, secrets & tea defecte, a 201 pele

would not seally Nave Bled ofered — It sight te a sile. MaHa

I staff may have had intousts is depletor

Is vally b0's, there was an littlet he defectors.

Davis depo Arced AL ZRRIFLE:

544 A your: requect to put doe. Lets syeten

? 1897

In of. suck as ZRRIFLE

into syeten except.

'Sleeper ageat" Ауро: to

5

selly Tih - might mave

it offin tending cace.

2023 supers. In

would a 201 te opered on sleper?

competing

of susey or. berg ate to keep hack of sleeper

Lange of sleeper to An stale defuting to E Lumarys- repott coned in

If from relable sonce atating that sleeper is probeding ifs.

SECRET

0001745

PAGE

COEY NO.

of c

---

## Page 5

SEGRET"

Plans would take place in small room in I steff:

tum must ie signed wy too — would ise put hats op. sule sette say

p. File would the weld at

a at actor deck.

Problems: Communication 06

Ie it presible for someose to have cott a 201 file i tes Zonal File? yes

PRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0001746

150 20

---

## Page 6

-SEGRET;

Record Adurinitration - helo dife dictnte -et u

-Burce Johion

records ins

+ Giorge Frattes

RID =

defunt designetin fr part 1 Inf

Services..

staff wt handler.

Ado record

ODA

PRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

.....-

ISS

ISAS

RA

Dao has a filing s unde telf

Any Ys... Can call upon.

RA to gire

asristance..

.But. do can

ale design it

owax filies sys.

long

RA's: legul

guideline

me flowed.

But

iJ....

informed... d

the other

wOrk

filing sy?

fits i...

decentriclice

ISs central jys. is ado haff

indiv di division Cier and sputeres.

- for ita of Mecond valere

cintral

Special materia might nel jo inte

file.

ie special Correspondence.

6001747

PAGE

6. 0320

COPY NO.

---

## Page 7

SECRLT

Prosuibel a Linitel"

info

- lighly senitive info - liinitel diste.

centrin inlivi

desiguetion

a seniorsteff of/ice

is mecl.

by Ano

ptl desiguation - dess

hostile territory

designation.

- this Dr

PRODUETEN ECAE

coren ager... ii

woild ao.t..

be uncommons?

ase.

af this

kinal

yeanns yu go, ul yope voitime

* Pold:. for wimetling te ders seuitie

aDaigued.

Et stelf has.

gone oua.

accum,letion

many yuu...

f...is.

wow.catching

plice.names..in.centred index

pasi to the itietd

entcür chere a...

pre pile is iuilin

to locete

- last, deship

vee?.

Could open 20r file wls

fiving indicction

apeisr.issse ad.cit.

This, accorslitg

Johason,.

wanld do iivesdofle.

0001748

SECRET

2 0 20

---

## Page 8

cryptingm

-SEORET

wield

bein

20, file.

201-i need for a continuing interest

n. order to.

open. a... file.

juice

asicl

adregary

PROZSCTION

Swell

counteri

ligence threat

→20 file would be place

whi mattes.... of dap.

crack.=

addamiy dourc

...ir eccurate.

ieen.. America.

givin in Germany who is jiving inf

to Russians.

To. locate where documents were

filed peior to.

bling. pliced in

trad syr unle

sument it

sleeper who pR

opens t amigned to him,

that his

in

Der is actually

il. is

possi

ripplian

→ Intragen

varu register exit ti

kvois pos.

ayency hiring same

igent

0001749

PAGE

COPY NO.

---

## Page 9

Graphics index on will not constain

routine plater of towns in your

201 pi1s...

will..netnechycouthid

pictites.

See

next

gage

centrel

There is

indle,

did say.

de retainel

9114/04

second purpose

But Bartow

for.

for do file not to contain

crypt,

depover-the pape dowd the sars

"Th their tare wame.

2 01'1 are not opened

in powerangun

There

• no

CREPRODUCTION

Files atten

subest file

- partica farges.

gect. filer

policy@mguit.on

SECRET,

0001760

PACS

COPY

NO.

---

## Page 10

Orgect

involued,

SECRET

proper run

in wit

Agency, ide

another

Lie. DOD)

over stall

civer.

REPRODUCTION

in creation. of

deep cover!

—unter you slave to

000

exist,

auch to deep cover programs a

There is a central listing

cryptongues. From thiy list you gel

te more, them go to 201 file

There is one.

still pesonned

walgen

EPRODUCTION

201.

PRAMIBITED

ill

include

apôu,.!!

There

tree

deal.

SEORET

filing.sys.by

..t 201..

TICE

0001751

10

_0120

---

## Page 11

There is

aruel filing

file.

incilued.

.in.

SECt

RET®

pois

stall alice or

indicatin

Let Oplation

steff fic assed wer

Contining

Cave Man.

Contrit,

agen

EPRODUCTI

- controlled by ciA

agen

feat passet may be the sease

is not mecly

agenl.... вес...

always competen

provide f infe

asset - Kup someone a min privil

sepice...or.

info.

Name ck proces-procedere. to learn whet

is known about

here is''

REPRODACTIOT

PROHIBITED

int?

201 file. if.

hoi files and pusilley

in. sequence

Name

opering

1"1.

True.

it.

may.be.tel.dul f201, d

wanted

cryptonyas

00U1752

11_ 0= 20

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Thee is a

canticliver filig

the came, paredingo,

= called

trie

votos,

L Sec

filing.

REPRODUCTION

0001750

SECRET

Novs

12 02 20

NO

---

## Page 13

SECRET*

Fretar

201

sübject- countries, plopecte

exiut for all qrogess that cin

..'ut olued

spporl

Finance.

REPRODICTION

eipt,

ABlEl bé a coypt file

Logistic PRUI

tombile, clathing, sugplis

cormonication " tabte chains

file.on

able; microfitmied

security - seurity fike; undn pruehengue

perswandifleonaplicatsdajaiy@wyho.om

pr ageitse 2 fils is flic

frecurity

Overt

covert

bisg dte, 18-11.

of vec.

inustifetien... so nigumeste

anything that te alos

wen Le'

iwlesa

apiegaos list ee*e

medies..

BERPODUGIOrer ple.

ie... wiitig a dispate

ityis. a

i.rome

agews PR

they.

Il stelferr

psych profite

can fet it

Maining- igech, igs sentiss,

nficeu

Uoed t1

ODp (flice ti

afelces

data procesing) o 1o

ciontite pu..e

IRET

C601754

PAGE

13 03 =

CCLY NO.

---

## Page 14

-ECREN

Betay Half

ГА Вчеренд- Тапиагу, 26.1918

Keeards Admen. Brach. -

LА → SUM

REPRODUOTI

ДАА

PROHBITED

ĐDA

In. Serrees. Staff- baly DDO.

ISAS - Lef. Seitems Analysis Staff

Records Adoria: Bresed

Can the need you any lure wth any Ruleon, but anyore can

design. the our systers, proveding they inform RAg so that they

can monter compliance.

Tamely tewels Callection"':

СПОН

Highly sentries Pe

from unties he

info. tends to he dwerted

rudelses for heading s maintalag secset beet not

yo completing "best list" implodes on limiting allers

biịt

SECRET

0001755

PAGE

COPY

NO.

of

---

## Page 15

SECRET

p.2

Bot Bertave -

When did syster

start?

sonataxe ne 103.

Heyen" hypo: Operation could hare teen so seneuve as to

re. kept out

of. seleng, indeking.

syatem, prittelady. 10.15

If ent offece; may whot lave

мен. reid. 20

201 7'5 : аніджобу

were assegned dy KID 10-15 угs.ад8

Hille were not degrated Tis" but were restited" to confined

juredections...

Aptonyn arigament: part of I55.-Central Lop Sert ; ryptie Reference

steff

"Sleepe" would have to clave a cryptonyn for sp. purpece. Muld

Net cryptonyn 4/201 #→

: su mane, not ix STAR systen

Daca ur spering a 201 fle:

Some scace of contraun interest" ette ra a potential source, agent.

K6B aficial - can de etter a spertire o counte-intell. purprees

Could i otter to conastta

Ya sittk systern

Could se opened in neut

- Ex: I eredisle sairee nef

to some suepected KGB perestl

201 could te opened in a mate of des, day o ses i somesse

reouyd ufo. of signefecance on pact. person.

document

SEGRET

0661756

PAGE

COFY NO.

of

---

## Page 16

p. 3.

Ack. Nigg

. for detaclo

Act Sugg

Ref. Лиз

SECRET

Central Source Leguter

Interainy Source Reguter: in Affect probably since beg. of CIA

If extelegace Agaes) - doest relude regular personnel - saly

assets - would the chased on the masses-wouldit coxtees sensitir souces

201 ples would not reclass

wisted, it may not

speefe deck

in a plotograph. Even if phots.

Weet may be x-ref. t a

ROHIB

Maples collection a ADI

Indi decke well collect plots of persons of interest

Contaias phots of terrain, te. Not particulaly interested in group ple, te.

Testing of acette - would the maintained is a waking mannes at

separate decks.

DAD would te sily place. Where there would the ales to this type

of luting

Bys large, no 201 yet 11

vales there was an op unteuet

риы. то ларужекрЕ

Kual Personnel File

Opexing does. of 201 sp

would contain refs. to clearaxes paper (wheed

would maintaised in See. Office)

the coverted? would

Emp. unde deep comr → Staff, Agent - dis files would appear wader

Як pudony.

Don't open 20r' on pedoryns, chit could open one in cryptonyas.

0001757

REGRET

FACE

16.

COrY.

NO.

• Of ti

---

## Page 17

p. 4

See Shegg

Caly 1 copy of a 201 ple; may. it a working feld copy

жиулет files

Projeet uelle

Poly got HERO DOCTION

PROHIBITED

reject file: putine mgnt. weerd of a given pegict

•A. Admiavetiation

B. Support

I Production

201 would chave info. on asset unvolved is profect; proud files ef.

is re opration alf.

Opratical Details.

Cetral bet of cryptoryns where they're reg woed - you can

mated the erpt with the tree name. The more senittive the

weet operation → the more diffice it will te to get to tave name.

sard file: affal

soft file: it

soft file would be

- anything of were value in

aded in hard file

Pisject files: where are approved, desion-making records filed?

stus where worked,; superiors name; pe of work done; walution.

Does ast sintain specific speratione is which umpsyce wis involed

JEGI

FAGE

of

---

## Page 18

.p.5.

SEGRET

Employees

I lace offices- intellegeace ficers

contact amployees.

PITE put atta wito are wade

Arcet: someone from whin tay car get weful sevrees, includig

Souse: souce of nformation

Hey of ordering aaliase. a.

Fundamertal

doc. In an agents 201 cele.

Mane check (-trace) process include dick of following

STAR brace

Travel files

office of Security

ODUCTION

Aleo do name chukin

Regatir AM/ LASA Mame trace -

0001759

SECRET

of

---

## Page 19

SECRET

p. b.

beorge Fratas

Juljed Files: countues

a tile: individuate Stre.

RET UNI

the t masach fles on and operatin

riginating. in Anote аденсу.

Agent:

201.

Office of securty

" Of turance:

It staff. nught have unfo.

Finace: outys, vouchers: recepte; will have a cryptonym file

roguties: support-autos, eloting, tte. necesary to Mun operations

Communications: cables, telegrapis

Moentas a склоно. Ме

cables are loaged, Ha?

- On microuln

житье, date, station

inder pedoryn if as agent

started to elisinate

dualifiling@mid.cos

aalats-

асе каже. у на ятренцее

2.

- each with the same #

Ourt-take nase Corest-paudonym- lited in under

Rak AND

would an agent over perate made a pacedsayse

> If it has pseudoyn → 'he is in file

(vest)

Te name: Mog. data, ruelto of etchged. check, secauty

volations i assignments

(covet)

Pseudonyn: Contes wuything the ples, did = lists where

of

---

## Page 20

SECRET

he worked, what is did, ate:

I as ageat, it would have a POA for wack project the ageat

was vivolved In.

a let of asseguments.

Reales: Medical historic on all staffers; or agrats if they cas get it

Psych dognal profiles

training: I rain ageats, agre, secys., office

Kus all tracking ceatus.

Office of Data Perewag: Put logether pear, wed idy computers

Sonnel: appleasts ы адежсу ятре

all agency employe

tal sher

pandoryns 1 201 nobe

HER OURITED

СХ-Л. Ти таки, eryptoyis,

0001761

SEC

of

---

