# 180-10142-10064

## Page 1

180-10142-10064

-, BookI

F, past. At that

Central Andrei

ufforts. §HSCA Class, Depo of John Scelso, Pin-

112 , Evec Sersion Testimong of RichardHelns, 8/9/78,

worth the ricti

o. Frist, Kelad pre

experime in conducting F

Rad

ins and secondly, bocals

even

Kay mond Preca, Chip, Reveach.

eArles fu the Cit's Counterintelligene

charactage

o Sceless trendles

motasa

amandate

= to nostigate but to "enordin.

traffic ( codefaceletition, telegram a

telegraphin emoedenter fa working

with the DDP with respecto whit

was being dome are, the chole wald...

[HSCA Class. Depo of R. Rocca, 9/10/28, p9).

142-10064

---

## Page 2

THIS COPY

IS

NOT

FOR RELEASE.

JFK Box 22

Folder 25

shit in a pete neglin

an brade tone.

p14, see also HS CA Class. Depo of JokinScelso,

5/14/78,7.1383

Ragra Rocca expander on) elm

reaming when he testified behe the

Committe that the shift in respons belis,

carold

o the Warren Common, I I SEA ClaS.

Depo of Raymond Race, pp12-197, Rocea

addedto his reming:

it wa entred appropriate in the

GPFLOOR please That he. (Selso wond

have that respimblet, for the Agen,

nostigater?. But the minute

you had a Consen Det up

ontade the live obindy had ?6

(one

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

: Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 3

becale the spread invold then all

Netterland

Catalia, end one as seema

---

## Page 4

- 17-

Mr. Rocca, as the day to day CIA working level

contact with the Warren Commission stated that on the

average it took less than one week for the CIA to transmit

its information to the Warren Commission, after such in-

formation had been processed by the Agency. (Rocca dep.,

pp.66-67) (Add the opinion of WC staffers.)

od tires

However,

condern foot protecting its

meet the CIA's

senstive sources and methods, caused

the Warren Commission to experience greater difficulty

relevari

in getting

information than when the protection of

such sources and methods was not at issue. J. Lee Rankin

expressed the opinion that the Agency's"

effort

tect its sensitive sources and methods did

nave

which

effect a

• the quality of the information to

the Warren Commission and its staff

(Rankin at p. 23) Lin some instance

made

Agency

e unilateral decisions

were given access.

As a result the

withholderomit

le-

accessfociA

my materials to he

no the Commission. (Scetso dep.

p.158)

Thes Committee has identified two

areas needs Agemen d

is desire

impreded the warren commissiont investi

These dare:

TwO

[is Commi

e in which

th

lon

of a

sources

methods

sode dur-

th

Kẹn Com

sIon

Invest

son inve

id

IM-

peded the warren Commiss

investigation to some degree:

pertains one hoose nance an elophone surves anem issionsta

operations of the CIA's Mexicot City Station

eflectsof the

2) As a related consideration, the controversy sur-

---

## Page 5

- 18

rounding photograph now referred to as that

of the "Mexico City Mystery Man"

Each of these concerns will be examined

herein.

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence of

sensitive technical operations, as outlined above, was

evident from the

aleception of the warren Commission.

Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized at first

to reveal all our technical operations." (Scelso dep.

p. 158) Scelso further testified:

We were going to give them intelligence re-

ports which derived from all our

sources, in-

cluding technical sources, including the

tele-

phone intercept and the information gotten

from the interrogation of Silvia Duran, for

example, which corresponded almost exactly

with the information from the telephone inter-

cepts. (Ext to Scelso quote, all of p.5)

Mr. Scelso's characterization is supported by

examination of the background to the first major CIA

report furnished the warren Cornission regarding Lee Harvey

31 danmeno

Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (Cite.) Much of the informa-

tion provided to the Warren Commission in this report was

based upon sensitive sources and methods, identification

of which had been deleted completely from the report.

The CLA

policy

• limiting Warren Commission know-

ledge of CIA sources and methods was articulated as early

as December 20, 1963, at which time a cable was sent from

CIA headquarters to the Mexico City Station which stated:

Our present plan in passing information to the

Warren Commission is to eliminate mention of tele-

---

## Page 6

- 19-

phone taps, in order to protect your contin-

uing ops .

Will rely instead on statements

of Silvia Duran and on contents of Soviet

Consular file which Soviets gave ODACID

(CIA cable DIR 97829 FOlA 498-204, 29Jan1964)

The basic policy articulated in the December 20,

1963 cable is also set forth in a CIA memorandum of

December 17, 1963. In that memorandum, Birch O'Neal

/Special Investigations Grasp-

of the CIA counterintelligence/staff wrote that he had

been advised by Sam Papich, FBI liaison me to the CIA,

that the FBI was anticipating a request from the Warren

Commission for copies of the FBI's materials which sup-

ported or complimented the FBI's five volume report of

Decmeber 9, 1963 submitted to the Warren Commission.

Papich provided O'Neal with this report which indicated

that some United States Agency was tapping telephones

in Mexico. Papich queried O'Neal whether the FBI could

Vie

supply the Warren Commission with source of the telephone

taps. (The FBI had knowledge of CIA's telephone surveil-

lance operations in Mexico City, see CIA S@CI-3/779/510)

O'Neal's memorandum

shows

" that he discussed this matter

with Scelso who in turn, after a discussion with Helms,

was directed by Helms to prepare CIA material to be passed

.to the Warren Commission. O'Neal wrote:

He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not the

Agency's desire to make available to the Com-

mission at least in this manner--via the FBI-

sensitive information which could relate to

telephone taps (Birch O'Neal, Memo for File,

20 Dec 63, Subj: Lee Harvey Oswald)

---

## Page 7

- 22 -

was to benn aform that would

the form of this presentation deba

i pro-

tect the CIA's Mexico City Station's sources and techniques.

(CIA Cable Dir. 90466, FOIA 420-757, 20 Dec 63)

IV. Telephone Taps and Photo Surveillance

Mr. Helms offered testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to

inform the Warren Commission, at least during

the initial stage of the CIA's telephonic and photo sur-

veillance operations in Mexico City

Helms testified:

The reason for the sensitivity of these tele-

phone taps

and surveillance was not only be-

cause it was sensitive from the Agency's

standpoint, but the telephone taps were run-

ning in conjunction with the Mexican authori-

ties and therefore, if this had become public

knowledge, it would

have caused very bad feel-

ings between Mexico and the United States,

and that was the reason. (Helms Exec Session

hearing, pp.51-52,

Nevertheless, the CIA had provided information to

the FBI regarding the Mexico City surveillance operations

prior to the assassination. and

a dung the post assass nation

period m

•) .

Furthermon

as

of November 28, 1963 the White House, through information

made available by DCI McCone to National Security Councils

had been made

Director McGeorge Bundy,

aware that the CIA had tele-

phone taps in operation against the Cuban and Soviet Em-

bassy/Consulatesand that through these taps Oswald's pre-

sence in Mexico City prior to the assassination had been

corroborated. Luite Mi Core ride fo M, GeorgBuerde,

---

## Page 8

- 23 -

unwillingness

The CIA's

* to inform the Warren Commission

of the above-described surveillance operations

in the early stages

mus in-

vestigation

th

15 15 a source

It is indicative of an

Адану

substance

genre.

ud information

ReciA felt unconfortabli

• providedg

the Warren Commission. (See Scelso depT. This process

might well have hampered the Commission's ability to pro-

ceed in its investigation with all the facts before it,

even those whi

which might have meant exposing certain sensi-

tive operations to the Commission.

As noted previously, on January 31, 1964, the CIA

provided the Warren Commission with a memorandum that

chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's Mexico City visit during

September 26, 1963 - October 3, 1963.: That memorandum

did

that

notmention.

Oswald's various conver-

sations

with the cuban and soyfti Embassy/consulates had :..

been tapped and subsequently transcribed. Furthermore,

that

memorandum

I notention endeane that the CRA

had tapped and transcribed conversations between Cuban

Embassy employee Sylvia Duran and Soviet officials at

the Soviet Embassy/Consulate nor was mention made of the

conversations between Cuban President Dorticos and Cuban

firmas

Ambassador to Mexico which the CIA had also tapped and

transcribed.

---

## Page 9

10?..1.00.10.1.1............. 1."...

- 24 -

On February l, 1964 Helms appeared before the

Commission (see above) and likely discussed the memoran-

dum of January i , 1964. On Feburary 10, 1964, J. Lee

Rankin wrote Helms in regard to the CIA memorandum of

January 31. A review of Rankin's letter indicates that

as of his writing.

*, the Warren Commission

had no substantive knowledge of the telephone surveillance

operation or the production i.e., the tapes and trans-

cripts, from that operation. Rankin inquired in the Feb-

ruary 10, 1964 letter whether Oswald's direct communica-

tion with employees of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in

of the January 31 memorandum) had been facilitated

by telephone or interview. Manifestly, if the Warren Com-

mission had been informed of the telephone surveillance

operation and its success in tapping Oswald this inquiry

by Rankin would not have been made.

Raymond Rocca's testimony tends to support this

conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that between

the time period of January 1964 - April 1964, Warren Com-

mission's representatives had visited the CIA's headquar-

ters in Langley, Virginia and had been shown various trans-

cripts resulting from the CIA's telephond surveillance

operations in Mexico City. (Rocca dep. P.89) However,

Mr. Rocca did not personally make this material available

to Commission representatives and was not able to state

under oath precisely the point in time at which the Warren

Commission learned of these operations.

---

## Page 10

- 25

On February 19, 1964 the CIA responded to Rankin's

inquiry of February 10.

The Agency response did

indi-

cate that Oswald had phoned the Soviet Consulate and was

also interviewed at the Consulate. However, the Agency did

not reveal the source of this information in its response

to the connissionor indicate that it would be revealed

by other means (e.g. by oral briefing).

V.

During the period of March - April 1964, David

Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which among other

issues concerned Warren Commission knowledge of and access

to the production material derived from the CIA telephonde

surveillance operations in Mexico City. A review of

these memoranda tends to support the Committee's belief

that the Warren Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman,

and willens did not obtain access to CIA telephone surveil-

lance materials until April 9, 1964. At that time, Coleman,

Salwson and Willens met with Win Scott, the CIA's Chief

Scott

of Station in Mexico City. provided them with various

transcripts and translations derived from CIA telephone

taps of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy/Consulates. (Slawson

memorandum of April 22, 1964, subject: -

However, Prior to d

Apoil. 9

- it appears doubtful

that the Commission had been given even partial access

to the referenced material. Nevertheless, by March 12,

---

## Page 11

- 26 -

1964, the record indicates that the Warren Commission

had at least become aware that the CIA did maintain

telephond surveillance of the Cuban Embassy/Consulate.

(Slawson memorandum, March 12, 1964, Subj: meeting with

CIA representatives). Slawson's memoranâum reveals

the Warren Commission had learned that CIA nu

possesstad transcripts of conversations between the Cuban

Ambassador to Mexico, Armas, and the Cuban President Dorticos.

Dorticos-Armas

Thee conversations, requested by the Warren Commission

representatives at a meeting with CIA officials, including

Richard Helms,

a concerned Silvia

Durha's arrest and interrogation by the Mexican Federal

Police (cite?).

Helms responded to the Com-

mission's request for access,

my that he would

attempt to arrange for the Warren Commission representatives'

to review

this material. (Slawson memo, March 12, 1964)

It shouldbe noted that the records reviewed do not

reveal the manner in which the Commission learned of the

Dorticos-Armas intercepts.-. As detailed above, both the FBI

and White House (through McGeorge Bundy) were aware of the

CIA's telephonic surveillance activities in Mexico City.

Su

(Cite)

One or the other could well have provided the war-

ren Commission with this information. Nevertheless, Ray-

mond Rocas' testimony as cited herein (Rocca dep.

lends some support to the position that the Commission had

been informed of the Dorticos-Armas conversations through

the cIA's initiative.

---

## Page 12

- 27 -

Another Slawson memorandum, dated March 25, 1964

concerned Oswald's trip to Mexico. Slawson therein stated

that the tentative conclusions Concerns. Oswald's

Mexico trip,

that he had reached

were derived from CIA

memorandad of January 31, 1964 and February 19, 1964,

and in addition a Mexican federal police summary dof

interrogations conducted shortly after the assassination

with certain Cuban Embassy employees. Slawson wrote:

A large part of it (the summary report) is

simply a summation of what the Mexican police

learned when they interrogated Mrs. SILVIa

Duran, (sic) an employee of the Cuban Consulate

in Mexico City, and is therefore only as accu-.

rate as Mrs. Duran's testimony to the police.

These comments indicate that sawson placed limited

reliance upon the Mexican police summary. Moreover, there

is no indication that Salwson had been provided the Duran

telephonk intercept transcripts. In fact, by virtue of

Slawson's comments conerning the Mejlean police report,

it would appear that the Warren Commission as of March 25,

had been provided little substantive information pertaining

to Sylvia Duran.

insert p28

The Committee's belief that Slawson had not been

given access

to the Duran transcripts is further supported

by reference to his memorandum of March 27, 1964 (Cite)

wherein

he states his conclusion that Oswald had visited

the Cuban Embassy on three occasions. This conclusion

he

waste was

based upon an analysis of Sylvia Duran's testi-

mony before the Mexican police.

Ihis memorandum benos

---

## Page 13

Insert

- 28

indication that he had reviewed any of the Duran

transcripts. Furthermore,

Slawsor

had been given access

to these transcripts, certainly their substance would have

been incorporated into his analysis and accordingly noted

for this purpose. His analysis @dould have reflected

the fact of this have alled ther by its corrobaration on

criticism of the Mexican police summary report.

#Insortpag

A$"

the warren Co

March 25, 1964, the

ecord dinstates that

"its

Forts

Avestigalte

Oswal

activities

abcess to the Duran transcripts.

the Commission had been

forced to rely upon the two memoranda that did not make

susped ofa

reference to the surveillance operations, and a summarya po-

lice report. Thus, the Agency had been successful for

over three months in not exposing the surveillance opera-

tions to the review of the concerned Warren Commission

staff members. As was stated in the CIA cable of Decem

ber 20, 1964 to its Mexico City Station:

Our present plan in passing information to

the Warren Commission is to eliminate mention

of telephone taps, in order to protect your

continuing operations. Will rely instea

on statements of Silvia Duran and on contents

of Soviet consular file which Soviets gave

ODACID here.

(CIA cable, DIR 90466, FOIA 420-757, Dec. 20,

1964 CIA p. 2144)

On Mar

27, 1964- STawson

wrote that

deter-

mined that

had visite

the

Cuban Embassy

Three

---

## Page 14

- 29 -

times.

He stated that this conclusion was based upon his

review of Silv

la Duran's test

mony to the Mexican

(Slawson mentorandum, Marc)

*27

1964 CIA p. 1812)

However,

Slawson

does not state

that his conclusions were also

drawn

from review of any

sf the pr

duction from the Mexico City

statigh surveillance opera

Tons.

Sawson does

however, that his reasoning

ndicate,

bigwous regardite Oswald's

visit to the cuban embassy.

Logically, access to the

telephonic surveillance production would have clarified some

ambiguities. For example, on September 27, at 4:05 p.m.

Silvia Duran telephoned the Soviet Embassy and stated

that an American was presently at the Cuban Embassy, re-

questing an in-transit visit to Cuba. This American was

determined by CIA analysts to be Oswald. Again on Septem-

ber 28, at 11:51 a.m. Duran telephoned the Soviet Consulate

stating that an American, identified by CIA analysts as

Oswald

at the Cuban Embassy. Thus, a

the cit had twice

definitively established that Oswald had

visited the Cuban Embassy on at least two occasions.

Moreover, the specific datesand exact timesof his presence

were

in the Cuban Embassy.

established as the result of the

telephonic surveillance. Had this information been made

available to Slawson, his calcuations of Oswald's activities

in Mexico City would have been more firmly established

than they were as of March 27, 1964. These transcripts

---

## Page 15

Іо.и.А9с-ССіtơсімиммтщы4ч?.?.....

- 30 -

could have been made available to the Warren Commission

at its

nception but as the record indicates they were

not then made available.

The record supports the Committee's finding that

as of April 2, 1964 the Warren Commission

had still not

been given access to the above-referenced

series of tele

phonde intercepts. In a memorandum of that date by Coleman

and Slawson, they articulatedone question to the CIA and

two requests for information from the Agency, (Ambassador

slamsel mend April 2, 1964, CIA D. 1975) (my notes?) Colemanand

1) What is the information source referred to in

the November 28 telegram that Oswald intended

to settle down in Odessa;

2) We would like to see copies of the transcripts

of the intercepts, translated if possible, in

refer

all cases where the

intercepts a to the

assassination or related subjects;

3) We would especially like to see the intercept

in which the allegation that money was passed

at the Cuban Embassy is discussed

(ItenI)

The question

initially posed in the above-referenced

memorandum of April 2 concerns the CIA telephonk intercept

of September 27, 1963 at 10:37 a.m. (Slawson memo, April

3223). Necessarily, if slaws

- foundst.

22, 1964, CIA P.

necessary +0-94951

AMaN

-the source of the information, he had not beer

---

## Page 16

- 31

toy the ciA

provided that source

which

(Item Numbertess I the abstes)

The first Coleman-Slawson request

tends to show

_that

the commission

had

been

given access,

te I forget in

725,9

concerning the

assassination

indicates the Hemmistian

Last epicoron

wurated

wognfrel-eoop.com

breove

As

ni tra

SCripES

equest

winterpreted.

hat

êy had not been

given apresente

manor

ateriats.

The second request, fitem number three of the above

listing? reveals that the intercept of the Dorticos-Arman

conversation of November 22, 1964, in which the passing

of monies @es discussed had not as of April 2 been provided

to the Commission. The Commission had specifically requested

the Dorticos-Armas transcripts Ot the March 12, 1964

meeting between Commission representatives and Agency re-

presentatives. (Cite.)

Meet 15

On April 3, 1964, Coleman and Slawson articulated

their concern for receiving, complete access to all materials.

relevant to Oswald's Mexico City trip. They wrote:

The most probable final result of the entire

investigation of Oswald's activities in Mexico is

a conclusion that he went there for the purpose

of trying to reach Cuba and that no bribes, con-

spiracies, etc. took place.

---

## Page 17

- 33 -

Upon the group's"

arrival in Mexico City, they were met

by U.S. Ambassador Freeman, Claire Boonstra of the State

Department, Clarke Anderson of the FBI, and Winston Scott of

the CIA.

That same day during a meeting between the Commission

representatives and Win Scott, Scott made available to the

group actual transcripts of the telephond surveillance

operations and English translations of the same. In addition,

he provided the group with reels of photographs for the

time period covered by Oswald's visit that had resulted from

photosurveillance of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy entrances

David Slawson wrote:

"...Mr. Scott stated at the beginning of his narrative

that he intended to make a complete disclosure of all

facts, including the sources of his information, and

that he understood that all three of us had been cleared

for TOP SECRET and that we would not disclose beyond

the confines of the Commission and its immediate staff

the information we obtained through him without first

clearing it with his superiors in Washington.

We

agreed to this." (Slawson memo, April 22, 1964, p. 22)

Mr. Scott described to the Commission representatives

the CIA's course of action immediately following the assassination.

Scott indicated that his staff au

immediately,

began to compile

dossiers on Oswald, Duran, and everyone else throughout Mexico

whom the CIA knew had had some contact with Oswald (p.22).

scott revealedthat

all known Cuban and Russian intelligence agents

had immediately been put under surveillance following the

assassination. viaison was set up with Mexican officials,

particularly Luis Echevarria, Acting Minister of the

Mexican Gobernacion (pp. 23-24). Slawson then concluded

---

## Page 18

- 36 -

Thereafter, on February 12, 1964, J. Lee Rankin wrote

Thomas Karnamesmies Assistant D. DP.

to d

it, regarding the

bugrash.ch

circumstances

# this photograph by the

Central Intelligence Agency.

Rankin

reques ted that

the Commission be

the identity of the individual

Loas

depicted in the photograph if that information

w avallable.

On that same day, in a separate letter to DCI McCone,

Rankin wrote that the Commission had been informed by the Secret

since Doreme033,1963

Service. that the CIA had disseminated several reports or

communications concerning the assassination to the Secret

+5133631

Service sim

RankIn

requested copies of these

Prese mate rals achedoe

Three

reports and other materials.

castor, cts

riginallyidentifica

concerned with the photograph of the individual

bug the 14165614815 tatiam as

Oswald and subsequently shown to Oswald's mother.

UTT

mason, lamong the materials

bytrellA

disseminated to the Secret Service was a November 26

dissemination (DIR85177), a copyd which was transmitted o

thenbeeret fervice. That cable concerned the Do-Armas

conversations and disclosed the existence of CIA telephonic

surveillance operations in Mexico Cityat the time of the

assassination and Oswald's earlier visit.

John Scelso testified regarding the circumstances

surrounding the eventual explanation given to the Commission

of the origin of the photograph in question. Scelso stated:

---

## Page 19

- 37-

"We did not initially disclose to the Warren

Commission all of our technical operations.

In other

words, we did not initially disclose to them that we

had photosurveillance because the November photo we had

(of MMM) was not of Oswald. Therefore it did not mean

anything, you see?"

Mr. Goldsmith:

...So the Agency was making a unilateral

decision that this

was not relevant to the Warren

Commission.

Scelso: Right, we were not authorized, at first, to reveal

all our technical operations.

(Scelso deposition, e.

150)

Rain Fearer la, 1966 to

ankar tea amish the Warren

unknowinging

Commission

Zeneratectres access to

telephonic surveillance production' (as discussed in the

similarly saladin

preceding section), the ma

• of the photosurveillance operations,

te the is to Commission Ared

Maste cause concern within

the Agency.

On March 5, 1967, Raymond Rocca wrote in an internal

memorandum to Richard Helms that "we have a problem here for

your determination. " Rocca outlined Angleton's desire not to

respond directly to Rankin's request of February 12 regarding

CIA material forwarded to the Secret Service since November 23,

1964. Rocca then stated:

"Unless you feel otherwise, Jim would prefer

to wait out the Commission on the matter covered by

paragraph 2 (of the above-referenced February 12

letter). If they come back on this point he feels

that you, or someone from here, should be prepared to

go over to show the Commission

the material rather than

pass them to them in copy.

Incidentally, none of these

items are of new substantive interest.

We have either

passed the material in substance to the Commission in

response to earlier levies on the items on the items

refer to aborted leads, for example, the famous sex

carlie eye on

photographs which are not of Oswald..."

(Rocca

memo 5 March 64, FOIA 579-250)

---

## Page 20

- 43-

VIII.

Luisa Calderon

Approximately five hours after President Kennedy's

assassination, a Cuban government employee in Mexico City named

"Luisa" received a telephone call from an unidentified man

speaking Spanish. (MEXI 7105, 27 Nov. 63, FOIA 173-615, attach-

ment) This call had been intercepted and recorded by the CIA's

Mexico City Station as the result of its LIENVOY (tel. tap)

operation. (op cit) The Mexico City Station identified the

Luisa of the conversation as Luisa Calderon, who was then

employed in the Commercial Attache's office at the Cuban

Consulate.

During the course of the conversation, the unidentified

caller asked Luisa if she had heard the latest news. Luisa

replied in a joking tone:

"Yes, of course, I knew almost before Kennedy."

The callerwent on to tell Luisa that the person

apprehended for Kennedy's slaying was the "president of one of

the Committees of the Fair Play for Cuba." Luisa replied that

she knew this also. Luisa inquired whether the person being

held for the killing was a gringo. The unidentified caller

replied, "yes." Luisa told her caller that she had learned

nothing else about the assassination that she had learned

about the assassination only a little while ago. The

unidentified caller commented:

---

## Page 21

- 44-

We think that if it had been or had

seemed... public or had been one of the

segregationists or against intergration

who had killed Kennedy,

then there was,

let's say, the possibility that a sort

of civil war would arise in the United

States; that contradictions would be

sharpened.. who knows

Luisa responded:

Imagine, one, two, three and now, that makes

• three.

(She laughs.)

Raymond Rocca, fd

fo1

are in response to

a 1975 Rockefeller Commission request for information on

a possible Cuban conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy wrote regarding Calderon's comments:

Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto

suggestion of foreknowledge. This is the

only item in the intercept coverage of the

Cubans and Soviets after the assassination

that contains the suggestion of foreknow-

ledge or expectation. (Rocca memo for DC/OPS,

23 May 1975, p. 15)

Standing by itself, Luisa Calderon's cryptic com-

ments do not merit serious attention. Her words may in-

deed indicate foreknowledge.of the assassination but may

also-

y be interpreted without such

a sinister impli-

cation. Nevertheless, as will be discussed herein, the

Committee has determined that Luisa Calderon's case did

merit serious attention in the months following the assas-

sination.

However, Calderon's comments were not reported

to the Warren Commission, apparently an agency oversight.

---

## Page 22

- 47 -

Calderon's 201 file reveals that she arrived in

Mexico City from Havana on January 16, 1964, carrying

Cuban Passport E/63/7. Her date of birth was believed

to be 1940 (Dispatch, HMMA21612) Calderon's presénce in

Mexico City was first reported by the CIA on July 15,

1963 in a dispatch from the CIA's Miami field office to

the CIA's

Mexico City Sestion and to the Chief of the CIA's.

Special Affairs Staff (for Cuban operations). That dis-

patch had attached to it a report containg biographic data

on personnel then

assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

City. At page three of the attached report Luisa Calderon

was listed as Secretary of the Cuban Embassy's Commercial

Office. The notation indicated that a report was pending

on Calderon. The Agency has attempted, without success,

to locate the report.

On

September 1, 1963, a dispatch was sent

from

the Chief

the Special

Affairs Staff to

the

chief of

insert

bite statron

Mexico Cits

(Dispatch HMMW

1935).

Luisa Calderon's association with the Cuban DGI

recorded by

was

first repersea tin

the CIA on May 5, 1964. At that

Joseph hangosen

time,

sna, Chief of Counterintelligence for the

Special Affairs staff, Repeatetne results of his de-

briefing of the Cuban defector, AMMUG-1. The memorandum

stated that AMMUGlhad no direct knowledge of Lee Harvey

Oswald or his activities but was able to provide items

of interest based upon the comments of certain Cuban In-

---

## Page 23

- 48 -

eas.

telligence Service officers. Specifically, AMMUG-1 "Ped

asked if Oswald was known to the Cuban intelligence

services before November 23, 1963. ANGel told sai

as reorden in

ty 5 memerendun that "Prior to October

1963, Oswald visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on

two or three occasions.

Before, during and after these

visits, Oswald was in contact with the Direccion General

De Intelligencia (DGI), specifically with Luisa Calderon,

Manuel Vega Perez, and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez.

"(cite Mays men

bangasch

seen thereafter wrote that Calderon's precise

relationship to the DGI was not clear. As a comment to

this statement he set forth the CIA cable and dispatch

durine January 1963

traffic which recorded her arrival in Mexico and departure, atte

for Cuba shortly after the assassination (ertemagimens)

on May 7, 1964, shang sch

m recorded additional informa-

tion he had elicited from AMMUG-1 regarding Oswald's

possible contact with the DGI. Paragraph 3 of this memoran-

dum stated in part:

"a. Luisa Calderon, since she returned to

Cuba, has been

paid a regular salary

by the DGI even

though she has not per-

formed any services.

Her home is in

the Vedado section where the rents are

high.

bi Source (AMMUG) has known Calderon for

several years.

Before going to Mexico,

she worked in the Ministry of Exterior

Commerce in the department which was

known •as the "Empress Transimport."

Her title was Secretary General of the

Communist Youth in the department named

in the previous sentence.

---

## Page 24

- 49 -

angosch

on May 8 Sues further disclosed AMMUG's know-

ledge of the Oswald case. "

Laneses

• paraphrased AMMUG's

knowledge of Calderon as

follows:

I thought that Luisa Calderon might have

had contact with Oswald because I learned about

17 March 1964, shortly before I made

a trip to

Mexico, that she had been involved with an

The information to which

I refer was told to me by a DGI case officer...

I had commented to (him) that it seemed strange

that Luisa Calderon was receiving a salary from

the DGI althought she apparently did not do any

work for the Service. (The case officer) told

me that hers was a peculiar case and that he

himself believed that she had been recruited in

Mexico by the Central Intelligence Agency al-

though Manuel Pineiro,

the Head of the DGI, did

not agree.

As I recall, (the case officer) had

investigated Luisa Calderon.

This was because,

during the time she was in Mexico, the DGI had

intercepted

a letter to her by an American who

signed his name OWER (phonetic) or something

similar.

As you know,

the pronunciation of

Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in Spanish so

I am not sure of how the name mentioned by Hernan-

dez should be spelled. It could have been "Howard"

or something different.

As I understand the matter,

the letter from the American was a love letter

but indicated that there was a clandestine-

professional relationship between the writer and

Luisa Calderon.

I also understand from (the

case officer) that after the interception of

the letter she had been followed and seen in the

company of an American.

I do not know if this

could have been Oswäld...

On May 11, Raymond Rocca wrote a memorandum

to Director Richard Helms regarding the information

had elicited from AMMUG. Rocca proposed that "the DDP

LANGOSH

in person or via a designee, preferably the former, dis-

cuss the AMMUG/1 sitaltion on a very restricted basis

with Mr. Rankin at his earliest convenience either at

the Agency of at the Commission headquarters. Until this

---

## Page 25

- 50 -

takes place, it is not desirable to put anything in writ-

ing.

(11 May 64, Rocca memo, FOIA687-295 with/4 attachments) .

On May 15, 1964, Helms wrote Rankin regarding

AMMUG's information about the DGI, indicating its sensi-

tivity and operational significance. Attached to Helms'

communication was

a paraphrased accounting of sansasch's

May 5 memorandum. (Helm's memo, May 15, 1964, FOIA 697-294) .

In that attachment the intelligence associations of

Manuel Vega Perez and Rogelio Rodriguez Iopez are set

forth. However, that attachment flakes no reference what-

soever to Luisa Calderon.

Howard Willens of the Warren Commission, requested

accesti te

as a follow-up to the May 15 memorandum, matternt the

questions used in sagosch's interrogation of AMMUG. (DOOleY

memo to Rocca, 19 June 1964 FOIA 739-310). On June 18,

1964 Arthur Dooley of Rocca's Counterintelligence Research

and analysis group took the questions and AMMUG's responses

to the Warren Commission's officers for Willen's review.

salens saw angesh" May 5 momozandum. The only mention

of Melderon was as follows: "The precise relationship of

Luisa Calderon to the DGI is not clear. She spent about

six months in Mexico from which she returned to Cuba early

in 1964.

However, willens was not shown the bangos hemoran-

dum of May 7 and May 8, 1964 which contained much more

detailed information on Luisa Calderon, including her possible

---

## Page 26

contimedafter p51

Calderon

iveed a

bette transition ento this section.

As discussed in an earlier section of this report,.

the Warren Commission did not gain access to the CIA's

production from its telephonic surveillance operations

in Mexico City until an advancestage in its investiga-

tion. The record reflects that

Mssrs. Willens, Slawson,

and Coleman did not review the production until they

visited Mexico City on April

9, 1964. At that time, they

reviewed a number of Intercepts from the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies. These intercepts included one call to the

Soviet Embassy on September 27 believed to have been

made by Oswaldy two calls made by Silvia Duran from the

Cuban Consulate to the Soviet Consulate, and one call from

the Soviet Embassy to the Cuban Embassya made by an uni-

dentified caller. (Cite Salwson memo of April 21, 1864.)

On September 28 the intercept operation recordeda

call by Silvia Duran at the Cuban Consulate to the Soviet

Consulate. (Cite.)

On October I the intercept operation recorded two

calls made by a person later identified as Lee Harvey

Oswald to the Soviet Embassy. (Cite.)

The Commission representatives were also supplied

,with the CIA intercepts of

cower

two conversations that

transpired between the Cuban President Dortic@sand the

pit Cuban ambassador to Mexico, Armas. These conversations

hard fr

It's very

what

to sel

made or

five

date

confusing

from

previo

parag:

---

## Page 27

- 2-

offered money while at the Cuban Embassyfand the general

state of affairs at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City

following the assassination. (Slawson memo of April 22,

1964, PP. 45-46).

The committee's

which

= review of CIA files

E COrrO

borateen of slawson's manuranunne the telephone inter-

t00

cepts provided to and reviewed by the

Commission.

1 One

this

CIA document,

i entitled "Material

jach

exilica

expect

from P-8593 shown to Warren Commission" (Station Oswald

reader

File) and is dated April 10, 1964. (FOIA 653-828). This

document records that the Warren Commission was shown calls

nemembe

it.

made by Oswald to the Soviet Embassy. These includedthree of the

contessations

€ September 27 listed above, one call of

September 28, two calls of October 1, and one call of

7

october ne

documen

While this does not correspond to the listing of

calls set forth by Slawson, it does independently establish

intercepted

a routed the Warren Commission.

that no "calls ned in November 22, 1963 were shown to

слева

In addition, this document corroborates the showing,

of the two Dorticas-Armas conversationSof November 26,

concean

1964

the Warren Commission

The Committee has queried former Commission and CIA

representatives in an effort to determine if a transcript

of the Calderon conversation was ever shion to the warren

---

## Page 28

- 5 -

Calderon

and a second Cuban Intelligence officer believed RE

• to

be a CIA operative. It is possible that this information

was not provided the Warren Commission either because

there was no basis in fact for the allegation or because

the allegation was in fact true. If the allegation

were true, the consequences for the CIA would have been

true

but

sound a

bit

Try

formation prior to the assassination regarding

• Oswald

thre

SerVICES

and/or his relationship to Cuban Intelligence,

and that

Services possible involvement in a conspiracy to assassinate

President Kennedy•

Regarding

possible association with the CIA,

the commit

verseate

Files reveale no ostensible connection between Calderon anc

pos

the CIA. However, there are indications that such contact

between Calderon and the Agency was contemplated. A

e4

September 1, 1963 CIA dispatch from the Chief of the Spe-

cial Affairs Staff to the CIA's Chief of Station in Mexico

City states in part:

iskel

...Luisa Calderon has a sister residing in

Reynosa, Texas, married to an American of

descent.

If (CIA asset) can further

identify the sister, our domestic exploita-

tion section might be in a position to follow

up on this lead...Please levy the requirement

on (CIA asset) at the next opportunity.

(HMMW/ 1935, Sept.

1, 1963)

---

## Page 29

- 6 =

An earlier CIA dispatch from the CIA Chief of

Station in Mexico City to the Chief of the CIA's Western

Hemisphere Division records that:

Wilfredo of the Cuban Consulate, Tampico,

reported that Luisa Calderon has a sister

residing in Reynosa, Texas... Luisa may go

up to the border to

visit her sister soon--

or her mother may make the trip--details

not clear. (HMMA 21849, July 31, 1965)

At the very least, the above dispatched evidenced

an interest in Calderon's activities and those of her

family. Whether this interest took the form of a clan-

destine-agent relationship is

not revealed by Calderon's

201 file.

The Committee has queried the author of the above-

cited dispatch requesting that Calderon's sister be con-

tacted by the CIA's "domestic exploitation section."

the dispattin's author, was a member

of the CI's Special Affairs staff at the time he wrote

the dispatch. He worked principally at CIA headquarters

and was tip responsible for recruitment and' handling

of..

of agents for collection/intelligence data. Mr.

when interviewed by this Committee, stated that part of

his responsibility was to scour the Western Hemisphere

division for operational leads related to the work of

the Special Affairs staff.

recalled that he normally

would

send requests to CIA

field stations for information

offer

or leads on various persons.

An he would receive no

what soupose is

seved boy this sentence

---

## Page 30

= 7-

response to these requests.

It was

recollection

that the above-cited domestic exploitation section was

a task force within the Special Affairs Staff.

He also

stated that in 1963 the CIA's Domestic Contacts Division

might have been requested to locate Luisa Calderon's sis-

ter.

told the Commiftee that he had no recollection

of recruiting any person associated with the Cuban Intel-

ligence Service.

He did recall that he had recruited

women to perform tasks for the Agency. However, he did

not recall ever recruiting any employees of the Cuban

Embassy/Consulate in Mexico City. Finally, Mr.

stated that he had no recollection that Luisa Calderon

was associated with the CIA. (HSCA Staff Interview August

31, 1978)

Various present and former CIA representatives

were queried whether Luisa Calderon had ever been asso-

ciated with the CIA. The uniform. answer was that no one

recalled such an association. (Cites: Helms, Hearing, August

9, 1978, p. 136; Rocca, DeP: P.148, July 17, 1978; Innesh.

Interview of August_, Piccolo, Interview of_)

Thus, the agencys filer Calder

and the testimony of former

have

between

and

CIA employees

reveal no connection * Calderon

CIA.

Yet, as indicated earlier hire none leat

the most glaringomission being the t

calderon's

Mercryptic remarks following the assassination of President

Kennedy •

---

## Page 31

AFSMUG/1

no lawyerly

As cited with regard to Luisa Calderon, a defec-

tor from the Cuban Intelligence Services provided the

CIA with significant information about Lee Harvey Oswald's

contacts with the DGI in Mexico City. This defector

was assigned the CIA cryptonym AMMUG-1 (A-1 hereinafter).*

CIA files reveal that A-l defected from the DGI

on April 21, 1964 in

When

he defected, A-l possessed a number of DGI documents which

were subsequently turned over to the CIA.

IN 68894,

24 April 64) Following his defection, a CIA officer,

Joseph H. Langosch, went to

to meet A-1, debrief

him, and arrange for A-l's travel into the United States.

OSC

(See supra cite.) On May 1, 1964, 22 reels of Langresh's

debriefing of A-l were forwarded to the Chief of the CIA's

Special Affairs Staff from the Chief of Station in

Effective on May 1, A-l was under contract with

the CIA for operational purposes. (Contract Approving Of-

ficer memo, 6 May 64) By June 23, 1964, Langosch was

convinced that A-l would be of great value to the Agency.

He stated:

There is no question in my mind that, AMMUG-1

*It is now known that A-l aid provide significant leads to

the CIA regarding

Luisa Calderon.

It is further apparent

that little of this information was made available by the

CIA to the Warren Commission.

Therefore, the possibility

exists that A-l had provided other information to the CIA

that was relevant to the Warren Commission's work but that which

was not properly reported to the Commission.

---

## Page 32

- 2 -

is a bona fide defector or that he has

furnished us with accurate and valuable

information concerning Cuban intelligence

operations, staffers, and agents. (Langosch

memo to Director of Security, 23 June 1964)

As an officer of the DGI, A-1 from August of 1963

until his defection was assigned to the DGI's Illegal

which

Section B

IN 68894 24 April 64) - This seetion

was responsibile for training agents for assignment in

Latin America. His specific responsibility pertained

handling of agent operations in El Salvador. (Personal

Record Questionnaire 4 June 1964;

In 68894 24 April

64)

identifiedfordhecta

A-1 knew who were the Cuban Intelligence officers

assigned to Mexico City. In this regard he intially

identified Alfredo Mirabar, Manuel Vega, ant Rogelia Rodriguez

and the Commercial attache as DGI officers posted at the

Cuban Embaesy in Mexico City. (supra) Langosch described

A-l's knowledge of DGI operations in Mexico as follows:

In Mexico City, he knows who the intelligence

people are.

One is the Cuban Consul Alfredo

Mirabal. He is called the Chief of the Centre.

That

is his title but he is actually the

intelligence chief, or at least he was until

the 16th of April at which time a replacement

was sent to Mexico to take over.

This fellow's

name is

Manuel Vega.

The source says that the

Commercial attache whose name is Ricardo Tapia

or Concepcion (he is not sure which is an intel-

ligence officer and

another one is Rogelio.

(I might say that some of these names are familiar

to me.) (p. 5 or reel 4, 23 April 1964, debrief-

ing of A-1, 30 April 64)

---

## Page 33

- 7-

This

a debriefing report of A-l entitled "The Oswald Case."

(Dispatch UFGW-5035, 23 March 1965) On March 23, 1965, a

CIA dispatch records the transmittal of the report, along

with eleven other A-l debriefing reports. (Cite supra.)

Next to the listing of the "Oswald Case" debriefing report

is the handwritten ritation "SI."

A CIA employee who has

worked extensively with the Agency files system believed

KENNA ESS

this notation t stand fee the CIA component Special In-

Hos

/telligence. Other CIA representatives believed the gott

CIA

tian ta stand for the cIA component seeciat Intelligende.

been

Other CIA representatives believed the notation was a re-

asked

ference to the Counterintelligence component CI/SIG.

In

a CIA memorandum dated

it us stated

Quote Barbara's memo.

coniting

to

issue?

files

The Agency has been unable to locate this document

and therefore the Committee cannot pass judgement upon the

substance of the missing materials.

sp"

The Committee has queried A-l's case officersregarding

additional information that A-1 may have supplied radaug

Oswald. Joseph Lanogsch when interviewed by the Committee

stated that (HSCA staff interview Joseph Langosch, August

211978) he did not have contact with the Warren Commission

and does not know what information derived from A-l's de-

briefings was supplied to the Warren Commission.

(Cite also

Hidalgo and Piccolo.) He also stated that he does not

interpent

---

## Page 34

- 8

head Cite Calderothe Swernterview.)

In a further effort to clarify the substance of informa-

A-

tion that salue provided to the CIA regarding Oswald, the

Give

faesar committee has attempted to locate Ande. The CIA has also.

expun attempted to locate shut

(give date of separation from CIA)

skeptie but has been unable to determine his present whereabouts.

A-1

It CIA:

Thus, gaps do exist regarding information AMMUe may

aridity. have supplied the ciA

expose

about oswale

*But on the basis of

CHA'S

With has

the written tacord

(the sooney, except for the calderon

episodel,

provided the Warren Commission with all

information

of investigative significance.$ff A broader question remains

however. The Agency,

as noted earlier, did not reveal to

the Warren Commission that A-l was present in the Washington,

D.C. area and, under controlled conditions, accessible to the

Commission. Evon considering the CIA's serious concern

for protecting its sources, the fact that A-l's status was

not disclosed Gokaalosed the Warren Commission from exereising

a possible option, i.e. to take

the sworn testimony of A-1

same

as it concerned Oswald and

the Kennedy assassination.

On

the Agency

It shoulds01

have done $0

The CIA die not fatt, in A-i's case, the

confusing

Nose

edity n light of the establishment of A-l's bone fidas

(Gite Langosch's quote supora), his proven reliability and

---

## Page 35

wton

Thes Formittee has identit, ex

areasof concern in which the A

"desire

reichad is

snorededtharcommissancest

= 17-

Mr. Rocca, as the day to day CIA working level

contact with the Warren Commission stated that on the

average it took less than one week for the CIA to transmit

ambiguous

its information to the Warren Commission, after such in-

formation had been processed by the Agency. (Rocca dep.

petally

unneceany.

Also, it

pp.66-67) (Add the opinion of WC staffers.)

ad-tires

However,

concern for protecting its

a the CIA's senstived sources and methods, caused

the Warren Commission to experience greater difficulty

relevant

information than when the protection of

fation

pored

be caust,

if el took

CIA J

repaths

in getting

such sources and methods was not at issue.

J. Lee Rankin

effort

to pro

prochoin

expressed the opinion that the Agency's a

tect its sensitive sources and

methods did

Moppos

strave

which

request, th

Affect en the quality of the information

to

Omie

week

the Warren Commission and its staff were given access.

transmittale

time

is

(Rankin at p.23)

Tin

some instance

As a result

menningle.

Agency

made

dhe

e unilateral decisions

swithholster limit

acceSStoCIA

bu

• the Commission. (Scelso dep.

p.158)

ogme point, you should relen to testimony by cin

people who salemowlaged thesist.

TWO"

is Committ

e in which the cou

LOn

of age

the

ten Com

peded the Warlen Commiss

sources

ion invest

methods sen

Bone dur-^

Ion invo

investigation to some degree:

1)

perthing the photosurveillance and telephone surveillance

operations of the CIA's Mexicost City Station

effectsof the

As a related consideration, the controversy sur-

Get better phrasing Aldo, this is not

nelly

reparate area of concern.

---

## Page 36

- 18

rounding photograph now referred to as

that

of the "Mexico City Mystery Man"

Each of these concerns will be examined

herein.

reat

1

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence of

sensitive technical operations, as outlined above, was

evident from the

ception of the Warren Commission.

Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized at first

to reveal all our technical operations." (Scelso dep.

p.158) Scelso further testified:

We were going to give them intelligence re-

ports which derived from all our sources, in-

cluding technical sources, including the

tele-

phone intercept and the information gotten

from the interrogation of Silvia Duran, for

example, which corresponded almost exactly

with the information from the telephone inter-

cepts. (Ext to Scelso quote, all of p.5)

Mr. Scelso's characterization is supported by

examination of the background to the first major CIA

report furnished the warren Commanmon agarding tee Harvey

Oawald's trip to Mexico City. (icite.) Much of the informa-

••«+

tion provided to the Warren Commission in this report was

based upon sensitive sources and methods, identification

of which had. been deleted completely from the report.

The ClA

policy 1

limiting Warren Commission know-

ledge of CIA sources and methods was articulated as early

as December 20, 1963, at which time a cable was sent from

CIA headquarters to the Mexico City Station which stated:

Our present plan in passing information to the

Warren Commission is to eliminate mention of tele-

---

## Page 37

- 19-

phone taps, in order to protect your contin-

uing ops

Will rely instead on statements

of Silvia Duran and on contents of Soviet

Consular file which Soviets gave ODACID

(CIA cable DIR 97829 FOLA 498-204, 29Jan1964)

The basic policy articulated in the December 20,

1963 cable is also set forth in a CIA memorandum of

December 17, 1963. In that memorandum, Birch O'Neal

/Special Investigations Group.

of the CIA Counterintelligence,

Staff wrote that he had

been advised by Sam Papich, FBI liaison mem to the CIA,

that the FBI was anticipating a request from the Warren

Commission for copies of the FBI's materials which sup-

ported or complimented the FBI's five volume report of

That had been

Decmeber 9, 1963/submitted to the Warren Conmission.

Papich provided O'Neal with this report which indicated

that some United States Agency was tapping telephones

aril

in Mexico, Papich queried O'Neat whether the FBI could

supply the Warren Commission with^source of the telephone

taps. (The FBI had knowledge of CIA's telephone surveil-

restructer

lance operations in Mexico City, see CIA S@CI-3/779/510)

this

O'Neal's memorandum

who wen that he discussed this matter

sentence

with Scelso, who, in turn, after a discussion with Helms,

was directed by Helms to prepare CIA material to be passed

to the Warren Commission.

O'Neal wrote:

this

portion

fence

ther

fos

He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not the

Agency's desire to make available to the Com-

mission at least in this manner--via the FBI-

sensitive information which could relate to

telephone taps (Birch O'Neal, Memo for File,

20 Dec 63, Subj: Lee Harvey Oswald)

suit

his frai

she

isgue.

---

## Page 38

appropiately

which world

- 22 -

wastober a form thatcould

the form of this presentation when

me pro-

tect't

the CIA's Mexico City Station's sources and techniques.

(CIA Cable Dir. 90466, FOIA 420-757, 20 Dec. 63)

See aloo: Ayleton deps.

IV. Telephone Taps and Photo Surveillance

Mr. Helms offered testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to inform the Warren Commission, at least during

the initial stage of the CIA's telephonic and photo sur-

veillance operations in Mexico City®We

Helms testiFied.

The reason for the sensitivity of these tele-

phone taps and surveillance was not only be-

cause it was sensitive from the Agency's

standpoint, but the telephone taps were run-

ning in conjunction with the Mexican authori-LT

ties and therefore, if this had become public

knowledge, it would have caused very bad feel-

ings between Mexico and the United States,

and that was the reason. (Helms Exec Session

hearing, pp.51-52,

Nevertheless, the CIA had provided information to

the FBI regarding the Mexico City surveillance operations

jule prior to the assassination end.

esignuring the post-assassination

778(51818441604)

Furthermon

period

as

of November 28, 1963 the White House, through information

made available by DCI McCone to National Security Councils

had been made

Director McGeorge Bundy,

aware that the CIA had tele

his

ants

p'"*

phone taps in operation against the Cuban and Soviet Em-

bassy/Consulatesand that through these taps Oswald's pre-

sence in Mexico City prior to the assassination had been

Ecite Me Core Men to Me Georg, Bunty?

male..

ow's

corroborated.

pots points

---

## Page 39

- 23 m

unwillingness

The CIA'S

- to inform the Warren Commission

of the above-described surveillance operations

in the early stages

of tite in-

vestigation.

rid

thea

LALS

1s-a source

of concern to this Committee.

It is indicative of angemsy

pore desiretskew it for the for send

santanant 2gn de

MeciA felt unconfortable

substance

information

a providerg

the

Warren Commission. (See Scelso dep.T This process

might well have hampered the Commission's ability to pro-

ceed in its investigation with all the facts before it,

even those which might have meant exposing certain sensi

tive operations to the commission. We'll have to give example.

ie. We was macadding on!

As noted previously, on January 31, 1964, the CIA Compietily

mistake

provided the Warren Commission with a memorandum that

chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's Mexico City visite during re ilto

September 26, 1963 - October 3, 1963. That memorandum

did

that

pron to

notmention o

Oswald's various conver- Mc

sations with the Cuban and Soveti Embassy/Consulateshad *

trip

by

been tapped and subsequently transcribed. Furthermore,

did

that memorandum

namention me

tuou that the CIA

had tapped and transcribed conversations between Cuban

Embassy employee Sylvia Duran and Soviet officials at

the Soviet Embassy/Consulate nor was mention made of the

conversations between Cuban President Dorticos and Cuban

Armas

Ambassador to Mexico which the CIA had also tapped and

personned

April:

l belices.

this was

in fine

we

3130

transcribed.

malms.

---

## Page 40

- 24.0

On February 1, 1964, Helms appeared before the

Commission (see above) and likely discussed the memoran-

dum of January 3/ , 1964. On Feburary 10, 1964, J. Lee

Rankin wrote Helms in regard to the CIA memorandum of

January 31. A review of Rankin's letter indicates that

look as of his wautirs.., the Warren Commission

had no substantive knowledge of the telephone surveillance

operation or the production i.e., the tapes and trans-

cripts, from that operation. Rankin inquired in the Feb-

ruary 10, 1964 letter whether Oswald's direct communica-

tion with employees of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in

- of the January 31 memorandum) had been facilitated

by telephone or interview. Manifestly, if the Warren Com-

mission had been informed of the telephong surveillance

operation and its success in tapping Oswald this inquiry

by Rankin would not have been made. Good priet.

Raymond Rocca's testimony tends to support this

conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that between

the time period of January 1964 - April 1964, Warren Com-

mission's representatives had visited the CIA's headquar-

ters in Langley; Virginia and had been shown various trans-

cripts resulting from the CIA's telephond surveillance

operations in Mexico City. (Rocca dep. p.89) However,

Mr. Rocca did not personally make this material available

to Commission representatives and was not able to state

under oath precisely the point in time at which the Warren

firsts

Commission learned of these operations.

---

## Page 41

v.

foo

- 25 -

On February 19, 1964 the CIA responded to Rankin's

inquiry of February 10. The Agency response did indi-

cate that Oswald had phoned the Soviet Consulate and was

also interviewed at the Consulate. However, the Agency did

not revealthe source of this information in its response

this farnes

to the Commissionfor indicate that it would be revealed

by other means (e.g. by oral briefing).

Title should't that be a subsection of the

the telephon

Fags?

During the period of March - April 1964, David

Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which among other

issues concerned Warren Commission knowledge of and access

to the production material derived from the CIA telephonge

surveillance operations in Mexico City. A review of

these memoranda tend to support the Committee's belief lat

Reass

that the Warren Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman, should

and Willens did not obtain access to CIA telephone surveil-

Sates

lance materials until April 9, 1964. At that time, Coleman,

Slwson and willens met with win Scott, the CIA's Chief

print.

Scott

Station in Mexico City/lut provided them with various

transcripts and' translations derived from CIA telephone

taps of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy/Consulates. (Slawson

memorandum of April 22, 1964, subject: —

Homerer, Brior to d

Apcil. 9a it appears doubtful

that the Commission had been given even partial access

to the referenced material. Nevertheless, by March 12,

---

## Page 42

- 26 -

1964, the record indicates that the Warren Commission

had at least become aware that the CIA did maintain

telephond surveillance of the Cuban Embassy/Consulate.

(Slawson memorandum, March 12, 1964, Subj: meeting with

CIA representatives). Slawson's memorandum reveals

the the Warren Commission had learned that CIA lud THeS

possessi transcripts of conversations between the Cuban

Ambassador to Mexico, Armas, and the Cuban President Dorticos.

Porticos-Armass

The conversations, requested by the Warren Commission

representatives at a meeting with CIA officials, including

Richard Helms,

= concerned Silvia

Durha's arrest and interrogation by the Mexican Federal

Police (cite?). we

Helms responded to the Com-

stailing

mission's request for access,

any that he would

attempt to arrange for the Warren Commission'srepresentativeg

to review

this material. (Slawson memo, March 12, 1964)

It shouldbe noted that the records reviewed do not

reveal the manner in which the Commission learned of the

Dorticos-Armas intercepts. As detailed above, both the FBI

and White House (through McGeorge Bundy) were aware of the

CIA's telephonic surveillance activities in Mexico City.

Supr

(Cite)

One or the other could well have provided the war-

ren Commission with this information. Nevertheless, Ray-

mond Rocas' testimony as cited herein (Rocca dep.

lends some support to the position that the Commission had

been informed of the Dorticos-Armas conversations through

the CIA's initiative.

---

## Page 43

- 27-

Another Slawson memorandum, dated March 25, 1964

concerned Oswald's trip to Mexico. Slawson therein stated

that the tentative conclusions cancerous

- Oswald's

Mexico trip,

that he had reached

were derived from CIA

memorandas of January 31, 1964 and February 19, 1964,

and in addition a Mexican federal police summary of

interrogations conducted shortly after the assassination

with certain Cuban Embassy employees. Slawson wrote:

A large part of it (the summary report) is

simply a summation of what the Mexican police

learned when they interrogated Mrs. Silvia

Duran, (sic) an employee of the Cuban Consulate

in Mexico City, and is therefore only as accu-

rate as Mrs. Duran's testimony to the police.

These comments indicate that Salwson placed limited

reliance upon the Mexican police summary. Moreover, there

is no indication that Salwson had been provided the Duran

telephonk intercept transcripts. In fact, by virtue of

Slawson's comments conerning the Mejran police report,

It would appear that the Warren Commission, as of March 25,

had been provided little substantive information pertaining

to Sylvia Duran.

Insert pa8

The Committee's belief that Slawson had not been

given access to the Duran transcripts is further supported

by reference to his memorandum of March 27, 1964 (Cite)

wherein he states his conclusion that Oswald had visited

the Cuban Embassy on three occasions. This conclusion

he gate we based upon an analysis of sylvia Duran's testi-

mony before the Mexican police.

his memorandum beno

---

## Page 44

Insert

from

- 28 -

indication that he had reviewed any of the Duran

transcripts. Furthermore,

Slawson

had been given access

to these transcripts, certainly their substance would have

been incorporated into his analysis and accordingly noted

for this purpose. His analysis odould have reflected

the tact of this review

above eile either by its corroboration or

criticism of the Mexican police summary report.

AS

the

Warren

Co

March 25, 1964, the record dsminstates that

Ament

its

Rorts to

vestigaite

Oswalo

activities

access to the Duran transcripts.

Wine commission had been chois

forced to rely upon the two memoranda that did notsmake

termindee

suspect

ofa

reference to the surveillance operations, and arsummarya po-

lice report. Thus, the Agency had been successful for

over three months in not exposing the surveillance opera-

tions to the review of the concerned Warren Commission

staff members. As was stated in the CIA cable of Decem-

ber 20, 1964 to its Mexico City Station:

Our present plan in passing information to

the Warren Commission is to eliminate mention

of telephone taps, in order to protect your

continuing operations.

Will rely instead

on statements of Silvia Duran and

on contents

of Soviet consular file which Soviets gave

ODACID here.

(CIA cable,

DIR 90466, FOIA 420-757, Dec. 20,

1964 CIA p. 2144)

On Mar

27, 1964

lawson

wrote that

deter-

mined that

Uswa

had visite

the

Satan Embassy

three

---

## Page 45

- 29 -

times.

He stated that this conclusinn was based upon his

review of silvia duran's testimoni

the Mexican

(Slawson menorandum, Marcl

1964

CIA p. 1212)

However,

Slawson does not stat

that his

conclusions

were also drawn

from review of any

of the pr

duction

from the Mexico City

station surveillance operantons.

Stawson does

indicate,

however, that his feasoning

as regard " Oswald's

visit to the cuban-erbassy.

Logically, access to the

telephonic surveillance production would have clarified some

What

abrict

invest

ambiguities. For example, on September 27, at 4:05 p.m.

Silvia Duran telephoned the Soviet Embassy, and stated

that an American was presently at the Cuban Embassyo re-

questing an in-transit visit to Cuba. This American was lath

determined by CIA analysts to be Oswald. Again on Septem-

y:16pm

ber 28, at 11:51 a.m. Duran telephoned the Soviet Consulate

subsequestly

stating that an American,

Identified by CIA analysts as

CHoS

Oswald

it the Cuban Embassy. Thus, ca

definitively established that Oswald had

visited the Cuban Embassy on at least two occasions.

Moreover, the specific datesand exact times of his presence

eser

in the Cuban Embassy established as the result of the.

telephonic surveillance. Had this information been made

available to Slawson, his calcuations of Oswald's activities

in Mexico City would have been more firmly established

than they were as of March 27, 1964. These transeripts

---

## Page 46

have

vort

Latin

intercepts!

3x

- 30 -

could have been made available to the warren Commission

at its conception.but as the record indicates they were

not then made available.

The record supports the Committee's finding that

as of April 2, 1964 the Warren

Commission had still not

been given access to the above-referenced series of tele-

na do Phone intercepts.

In

, a memorandum of that date by Coleman

Joand slawson, they articulatalone question to the CIA and

two requests for information from the Agency (Ambassador

Mann file memo

April 2, 1964, CIA p. 1975) (my notes?) Colemanan

1) What is the information source referred to in

the November 28 telegram that Oswald intended

to settle down in Odessa;

this

aste fies!

restle

2) We would like to see copies of the transcripts

of the intercepts, translated if possible, in

refer

all cases where the intercepts

Pion to the

assassination or related subjects;

3) We would especially like to see the intercept

in which the allegation that money was passed

at the Cuban Embassy is discussed

The question

initially posed in the above-referenced

memorandum of April 2 concerns the CIA telephone intercept

of September 27, 1963 at 10:37 a.m. (Slawson memo, April

22,

1964, CIA p.

Obvisits

3223) •

Necessarily, if Slawson

- Found it

necessaratoreuest

on the source of the information, he had not been

Hard way.

as yet

---

## Page 47

to the

riginal meterial

- 31

provided that source which

ne.

(Item Numbertors I the abstes)

The first Coleman-Slawson request

7

tends 755h0c

the Commistion

notheen

becuse

a that

had

state

fluids given access,

the

+I-

Printercepts gang them

concerning the assassination (as

p306110 15

request

cedarte

mean

chaE®

Key nat not geen

The second request, [item number three of the above

listing reveals that the intercept of the Dorticos-Arman

conversation of November 22, 1964, in which the passing

of monies @eS discussed had not as of April 2 been provided

to the Commission. The Commission had specifically requested

the Dorticos-Armas transcripts.Cat the March 12, 1964

meeting between Commission representatives and Agency re-

presentatives. (Cite.) Neits

exprome

On April 3, 1964, Coleman and Slawson articulated

their concern for receiving complete access to all materials

relevant to Oswald's Mexico City trip: They wrote:

The most probable final result of the entire

investigation of Oswald's activities

in Mexico is

a conclusion that he went there for the purpose

of trying to reach Cuba and that no bribes, con-

spiracies, etc. took place.

---

## Page 48

- 33 -

pose

Upon the group's arrival in Mexico City, they were met

by U.S. Ambassador Freeman, Claire Boonstra of the State

Department, Clarke Anderson of the FBI, and Winston Scott of

the CIA.

That same day during a meeting. between the Commission

representatives and Win Scott, Scott made available to the

group actual transcripts of the telephond surveillance

accompanied with

- tou lawyery type lanquage.

operations and English translations. Of the same, In addition,

he provided the group with reels of photographs for the

time period covered by Oswald's visit that had resulted from

photosurveillance of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy entrances

David Slawson wrote:

"...Mr. Scott stated at the beginning of his narrative

that he intended to make a complete disclosure of all

facts, including the sources of his information, and

that he understood that all three of us had been cleared

for TOP SECRET and that we would not disclose beyond

the confines of the Commission and its immediate staff

the information we obtained through him without first

clearing it with his superiors in Washington.

We

agreed to this." (Slawson memo, April 22, 1964, p. 22)

Mr. Scott described to the Commission representatives

the CIA's course of action immediately following the assassination,

scott indicating that his staff alinidiately bogan to compilo

dossiers on Oswald, Duran, and everyone else throughout Mexico

whom the CIA knew had had some contact with Oswald (p.22).

scott revealea all known Cuban and Russian intelligence agents

Wad immediately been put under surveillance following the

assassination.

Liaison was set up with Mexican officials,

particularly Luis Echevarria, Acting Minister of the

Mexican Gobernacion (pp. 23-24). Slawson then concluded in

---

## Page 49

- 34-

"Scott's narrative plus the material we were shown dis-

closed immediately how incorrect our previous

information had been in Oswald's contacts with the

Apparently the

distortions and omissions to which our information had

been subjected had entered some place in Washington,

because the CIA information that we were shown by Scott

was unambiguous on almost all the crucial points. We

reconstruction of Oswald's probable activities at the

embassies to get Scott's opinion, but once we saw how

badly distorted our information was we realized that

this would be useless.

Therefore, instead, we decided

to take as close note as possible from the original

source materials at some later time during our visit."

1P- 244d whost?

slawson's memorandum of April 21, 1964 records the results

of the notetaking from original source materials that he did

following Scott's disclosures. These notes dealtexclusively

with the telephonic interceptspertainingyrrespeetively

*the

Duran and Oswald conversations Sorte per sept a 7- Octi, 1963.

It is evident from Slawson's record that the Agency's

denial of original source materials, in this case the telephonic

surveillance intercepts, seriously impaired the Commission's

accurately rensone

ability to draw conclusions regarding Oswald's sojourn in Mexico

City,

matable®

It meant that as

of April 10, 1964, nearing the halfway point of the Warren

Commission investigation, the Commission was forced to retrace

the factual path by which it had structured Oswald's activities

in Mexico City. It further revealed that the Agency had

provided ambiguous information to the Commission when, in fact

"on almost all the crucial points

significantly more precise

could have been made

materials more available for analysis by the Commission.

---

## Page 50

VI.

with

vitally relevant information derived from certain

sensitive sources and methods had seriously undermined the

investigation and possibly foreclosed lines of investigation

that might have been more seriously considered had thin

material been expeditiously provided; e.g.; Cuban involvement:

- shouldnt callera counsation

be in a his section?

Mexico City Mystery Man

On November 23, 1963, Marguerite Oswald was shown by

FBI Special Agent Odum a photograph of a man bearing no

physical resemblance to her son.

That photograph had been

supplied to the FBI on November 22 by the CIA's Mexico City

Station after Agency representatives had searched their files

in an effort to locate information on Oswald.

fr This photograph

was one in a series w

resulting from the CIA's photosurveillance

operations against the Soviet and Cuban Embassy/Consulates

Pit

had been linked by the Mexico City Station Prior to the

fon

assassination, Polee Harvey Oswald.. Richard Helms, in a sworn

affidavit before the Warren Commission, stated that the

photograph shown to Marguerite Oswald had been taken on October 4,

1963 in Mexico City and mistakenly linked at that time to

On February 10, 1964, Marguerite Oswald testified before

the Warren Commission and recounted the circumstances under

which she was shown the photograph. Mrs. Oswald testified that

she believed this photograph to have been of Jack Ruby. (p. 153)

---

## Page 51

- 36 -

and

explanation

Thereafter, on February 12, 1964, J. Lee Rankin wrote

Thomas SOnAMerAS Assistant D.DP

requests too

to t

circumstances

crashich

t,

regarding the

Chel beretter sme

m this photograph "by the

central Intelligence Agency. Rankin

-reques ted that

Tota

the Commission be

the identity of the individual

depicted in the photograph je that information wasavailable.

On that same day, in a separate letter to DCI McCone,.

Rankin wrote that the Commission had been informed by the Secret

Sentence.

Since Novene 27,1952

explicity le

Service. thaty,the CIA had disseminated several reports or

communications concerning the assassination to the Secret

the's could

be antined into, 1 se

Service si

santa ese mantial request

requested copies of these

funteports and other materials. Three st cables ine

i semich

originallyidentificat

concerned the photograph of the individual

by the mexico City Stationas

Oswald and subsequently shown to Oswald's

What Wa

to pend ver fe

mother Lto

A

so what

additioned

abn, famong the materials

disseminated to the Secret Service was a November 26

dissemination (DIR8517)), aeopathiehergarmitted to

thenbeere. That cable concerned the Dor-Armas

conversations and disclosed the existence of CIA telephonic

surveillance operations in Mexico Cityat the time of the

assassination and Oswald's earlier visit.

John Scelso testified regarding the circumstances

surrounding the eventual explanation given to the Commission

of the origin of the photograph in question. Scelso stated:

---

## Page 52

- 37 -

"We did not initially disclose to the warren

Commission all of our technical operations.

In other

words, we did not initially disclose to them that we

had photosurveillance because the November photo we had

(of MMM) was not of Oswald. Therefore it did not mean

anything, you see?"

Mr. Goldsmith:

...So the Agency was making a unilateral

decision that this was not relevant to the Warren

Commission.

Scelso: Right, we were not authorized, at first, to reveal

all our technical operations.

Commission

(Scelso deposition, B.

150)

Rang Fetrial 15, 1961.

requestedi

mn the Warren

Fawere turnor access to

telephonic surveillance

production' (as discussed in the

Similarlyaiselosure

unclean what is te

"Youre

preceding section, the

→ of the photosurveillance operations,

my to cause concern within

concen

the Agency.

On March 5, 1967, Raymond Rocca wrote in an internal

memorandum to Richard Helms that "we have a problem here for

your determination." Rocca outlined Angleton's desire not to

respond directly to Rankin*s request of February 12 regarding

CIA material forwarded to the Secret Service since November 23,

1964.

Rocca then stated:

"Unless you feel otherwise, Jim would prefer

to wait out the Commission on the matter covered by

}

paragraph 2 (of the above-referenced February 12

letter).

If they come back on this point he feels

that you, or someone from here, should be prepared to

go over to show the Commission the material rather than

letter, y

pass them to them in copy. Incidentally, none of these

items are of new substantive interest.

We have either

Just

passed the material in substance to the Commission in

a reset to aborted leads to example, the camous se

with

Clarit(Rocca meno 5 March 64, FOIA 579-250)

photographs which are not of Oswald..."

---

## Page 53

VIII.

- 43 -

Thes should be included in an

calia section on the tops:

Luisa Calderon

Approximately five hours after President Kennedy's.

assassination, a Cuban government employee in Mexico City named

"Luisa" received a telephone call from an unidentified man

speaking Spanish. (MEXI 7105, 27 Nov. 63, FOIA 173-615, attach-

ment) This call had been intercepted and recorded by the CIA's

Mexico City Station as the result of its LIENVOY (tel. tap)

operation. (op cit) The Mexico City Station identified the

Luisa of the conversation as Luisa Calderon, who was then

employed in the Commercial Attache's office at the Cuban

Consulate.

During the course of the conversation, the unidentified

caller asked Luisa if she had heard the latest news. Luisa

replied in a joking tone:

"Yes, of course, I knew almost before Kennedy."

The callerwent on to tell Luisa that the person

apprehended for Kennedy's slaying was the "President of one of

the Committees of the Fair Play for Cuba." Luisa replied that

she knew this also. Luisa inquired whether the person being

held for the killing was a gringo. The unidentified caller

replied, "yes." Luisa told her caller that she had learned

nothing else about the assassination; that she had learned

about the assassination only a little while ago.

The

unidentified caller commented:

---

## Page 54

- 44

We think that if it had been or had

seemed

1... public or had been

one of the

segregationists or against intergration

who had killed Kennedy, then there was,

let's say, the possibility that a sort

of civil war would arise in the United

States; that contradictions would be

sharpened...who knows

Luisa responded:

Imagine, one

two, three and now, that makes

three. (She laughs.)

Raymond Rocca, fo

fo1

in response to

a 1975 Rockefeller Commission request for information on

a possible Cuban conspiracy to assassinate President

Kennedy wrote regarding Calderon's comments:

Latin hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto

suggestion of foreknowledge. This is the

only item in the intercept coverage of the

a sovie intercept

Cubans and Soviets after the assassination

that contains the

suggestion of foreknow-

ledge or expectation. (Rocca memo for DC/OPS,

23 May 1975, p. 15)

Standing by itself, Luisa Calderon's cryptic com-

ments do not merit serious attention. Her words may in-

deed indicate foreknowledge of the assassination but may

also=

y be interpreted without such

a sinister impli-

cation.

Nevertheless, as will be discussed herein, the

Committee has determined that Luisa Calderon's case did

merit serious attention in the months following the assas-

sination. However, Calderon's comments were not reported

to the Warren Commission, apparently an agency oversight.

---

## Page 55

- 47 -

Calderon's 201 file reveals that she arrived in

Mexico City from Havana on January 16, 1964, carrying

Cuban Passport E/63/7. Her date of birth was believed

to be 1940 (Dispatch, HMMA21612) Calderon's presence in

Mexico City was first reported by the CIA on July 15,

1963 in a dispatch from the CIA's Miami field office to

the CIA's Mexico City séôtion and to the Chief of the CIA's

Special Affairs Staff (for Cuban operations). That dis-

patch had attached to it a report containg biographic data

on personnel then assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

City. At page three of the attached report Luisa Calderon

was listed as Secretary of the Cuban Embassy's commercial

office.

The notation indicated that a report was pending

on Calderon. The Agency has attempted, without success,

to locate the report.

On September I, 1963, a dispatch was sent from

the Chief of the Special Affairs Staff to the Chief of

indent

the Station in Mexico City (Dispatch HMMW 11935) .

Luisa Calderon's association with the Cuban DGI

was first reported by the CIA on May 5, 1964. At that

time, Harold Swenson, Chief of Counterintelligence for the

Special Affairs Staff, recorded the results of his de-

briefing of the Cuban defector, AMMUG-1. The memorandum

states that AMMUG had no direct knowledge of Lee Harvey

Oswald or his activities but was able to provide items

of interest based upon the comments of certain Cuban In-

# This dispated reported that:

(over)

---

## Page 56

- 48-

telligence Service officers. Specifically, AMMUG-1 had

been

asked if Oswald was known to the Cuban intelligence

services before November 23, 1963. AMMUG-1 told Swenson,

as recorded in the May 5 memorandum that "Prior to October

1963, Oswald visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on

two or three occasions. Before, during and after these

visits, Oswald was in contact with the Direccion General

De Intelligencia (DGI), specifically with Luisa Calderon,

Manuel Vega Perez, and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez.

Swenson thereafter wrote that Calderon's precise

relationship to the DGI was not clear. As a comment to

this statement he set forth the CIA cable and dispatch

traffic which recorded her arrival in Mexico and departure, during

perfrier 1164

for Cuba.

On May 7, 1964, Swenson recorded additional informa-

tion he had elicited from AMMUG-1 regarding Oswald's

possible contact with the DGI. Paragraph 3 of this memoran-

dum stated in part:

"a. Luisa Calderon, since she returned to

Cuba, has been paid a regular salary

by the DGI even

though she has not per-

formed any services.

Her home is in

the Vedado section where the rents are

high.

b. Source (AMMUG) has known Calderon for

several years. Before going to Mexico,

she worked in the Ministry of Exterior

Commerce in the department which was

known as the "Empress Transimport."

Her title was Secretary General of the

Communist Youth in the department named

in the previous sentence.

---

## Page 57

- 49 -

• On May 8 Swenson further disclosed AMMUG's know

ledge of the Oswald case.

Swenson paraphrased AMMUG'S

knowledge of Calderon as follows:

I thought that Luisa Calderon might have

had

contact with Oswald because I learned about

17 March 1964, shortly before I made

a trip to

Mexico, that she had been involved with an

American in Mexico. The information to which

I refer was told to me by a DGI case officer...

I had commented to (him) that it seemed strange

that Luisa Calderon was receiving a salary from

the DGI althought she apparently did not do any

work for the Service.

(The case officer) told

me that hers was a peculiar case and that he

himself believed that she had been recruited in

Mexico by the Central Intelligence Agency al-

though Manuel Pineiro,

the Head of the DgI, did

not agree.

As I recall, (the case officer) had

investigated Luisa Calderon.

This

was because,

during the time she was in Mexico, the DGI had

intercepted a letter to her by an

name one ton

American who

signed his name OWER (phonetic) or something

similar.

As you know,

the pronunciation of

Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in Spanish so

I am not sure of how

the name mentioned by Hernan-

dez should be spelled.

It could have been "Howard"

or something different.

As I understand the matter,

the letter from the American was a love letter

but indicated that there was a clandestine-

professional relationship between the writer and

I also understand from (the

case officer) that after the interception of

the letter she had been followed and seen in the

company of an American.

I do not know if this

could have been Oswald...

On May 11, Raymond Rocca wrote a memorandum

to Director Richard Helms regarding the information Swenson

had elicited from AMMUG. Rocca proposed that "the DDP

in person or via a designee, preferably the former, dis-

cuss the AMMUG/1 sitaution on a very restricted basis

with Mr. Rankin at his earliest convenience either at

the Agency or at the Commission headguarters. Until this

---

## Page 58

- 50 -

takes place, it is not desirable to put anything in writ-

ing. (11 May 64, Rocca memo, FOIA687-295 with/4 attachments) .

On May 15, 1964, Helms wrote Rankin regarding

AMMUG's information about the DGI, indicating its sensi-

tivity and operational significance. Attached to Helms'

communication was a paraphrased accounting of Swenson's

May 5 memorandum. (Helm's memo, May 15, 1964, FOIA 697-294) .

In that attachment the intelligence associations of

Manuel Vega Perez and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez are set

forth. However, that attachment

fakes no reference what-

soever to Luisa Calderon.

Howard Willens of the Warren Commission, reguested

# #185519

as a follow-up to

the May 15 memorandum, to look at the

questions used in Swenson's interrogation of AMMUG. (Dooley

memo to Rocca, 19. June

1964 FOIA 739-310). On June 18,

1964 Arthur Dooley of Rocca's counterintelligence research

and analysis group took the questions and AMMUG's responses

to the Warren Commission's officers for Willen's review.

Willens saw Swenson's May 5. memorandum. The only mention

of folderon was as follows: "The precise relationship of

Luisa Calderon to the DGI is not clear. She spent about

six months in Mexico from

which she returned to Cuba early

in 1964. However, Willens was not shown the Swenson memoran-

dum of May 7 and May 8, 1964 which contained much

more

detailed information on Luisa Calderon, including her possible

---

## Page 59

1143"

wreasof concern in whickf

desir

tus protect is Bensitive sources con

method saty

Hate the armer commission investig

aitz.on

- 17 -

Mr. Rocca, as the day to day CIA working level

contact with the Warren Commission stated that on the

average it took less than

week for the CIA to transmit

its information to the Warren Commission, after such

• in

formation had been processed by the Agency. (Rocca depe

pp. 66-67)

(Add the opition of WC staffers.)

Concern for protecters i Fishing eme

the CIA's senstived sources and methods, caused

sanes gues

29125

the Warren Commission to experience greater difficulty

elewart

in getting

information than when the protection of

such sources and methods was not at issue. J. Lee Rankin

for

ananas to pro

Cos 3

expressed the opinion that the Agency's

tect its sensitive sources.and methods did

which

effect:

the quality of the information to

the Warren Commission and its staff were given access.

manimiris.

FRankin

p. 23)

in some instance

Es

a result me

wisiosi.eits

made

suithholder hemit

Agency

e unilateral decisions

le-

materials the unti

the Commission. (Scekso dep. 5/16178

Nee is testimony but sitt

p. 158)

TWO

Sources

the

gen Com

peded the wart

en Commiss

is connytese in which

nethoas

sode

inyes

Ion invo

Investigation to some degrèe:

CommissionSt

pertaining the photosurveillance and telephone surveillance

operations

of the CIA's Mexicoy City Station

.?.:;

2) As a related consideration, then me re

troversy surzo revea

get been prideg

---

## Page 60

- 18-

whoriginof

counging photograph now referred to as that

of the "Mexico City Mystery Man"

Each of these concerns will be examined F

herein.

The CIA's concern for revealing the existence of

sensitive technical operations,

as outlined above, was

evident from the

inception of the Warren Commission.

Mr. Scelso commented that "we were not authorized

at first

to reveal all our technical operations." (seei bie.

But

p.158)

did

Scelso farther testifiga Rat:

13

from the interrogation of Silvia Duran, for

example, which corresponded almost exactly

with the information from the telephone inter-

cepts. (Ext to seelse quote, all of p-5)

Mr. Scelso's characterization is supported by

examination of the background to the first major CIA

report furnished the Warren Commission regarding Lee Harvey

osvald's trip to Messco city. Pass. Much of Pee i do n

tion provided to the Warren Commission in this report was

makin fi

felons.

based upon sensitive sources and methods, identification

of which had been deleted completely from the report.

GIA

The

policy

limiting Warren Commission know

ledge of CIA sources and methods was articulated as early

as December 20, 1963, at which time a cable was sent from

CIA headquarters to the Mexico City Station which stated:

Our present plan in passing information to the

Warren Commission is to eliminate mention of tele-

---

## Page 61

-Crime

- 19 -

phone taps, in order to protect your contin-

uing ops

Will rely instead on statements

of Silvia Duran and on contents of soviet

Consular file which Soviets gave ODACID

(CIA cable DIR 97829 FOLA 498-204, 29Jan1964)

428-757

The basic policy articulated in the December 20,

2963 cable is also set fent in a CrA

as it speu ficall concerned the CiA's fthe tiBl

set forthin a CIA memorandum of

December J00, 1963.

/Special Investigations Group

of the CIA Counterintelligence Staff wrote that he hac

been advised by Sam Papich, FBI liaison men to the CIA,

that the FBI was anticipating a request from the Warren

Commission

for copies of the FBI's materials which sup-

poxted or compLimen lal the BI's five volume report of

Decmeber 9, 1963 submitted to the Warren Commission.

Papich provided O'Neal with this report which indicated

that some United States Agency was tapping telephones

and asked hi th

in Mexico, Papich queried O'Neat whether the FBI could

Whie

supply the Warren Commission with source of the telephone

taps. (The FBI had knowledge of CIA's telephone surveil-

Lance operations In Mexico City, see CIA S0C7-3/779/5101

O'Neal's memorandum

showst

We that he discussed this matter

with scelso, mipado fifter a discussion with Helms,

cretso

was directed by Helms to prepare CIA material to be passed

to the Warren Commission. O'Neal wrote:

He (Scelso) was quite sure it was not the

Agency's desire to make available to the Com-

mission at least in this manner--via the FBI-

sensitive information which lemo for Filer

telephone taps (Birch alveal,

Subj: Lee Harvey Osward)

20 Deo 63y Bire d'neal, in csoftlemater al?

indi

...,

---

## Page 62

which would

- 22 -

wang to bein a form thatwöül d

the form of this presentation

tect thef

the CIA's Mexico City Station's sources and techniques.

(CIA Gable DiX- 90466, FOIA 120-757, 20 Dec 63)

Ibid.

IV. Telephone Taps and Photo Surveillance

Mr. Helms offered

testimony regarding the CIA's

reticence to inform the Warren Commission, at least during

the initial stage of the CIA's telephonic and photo sur-

veillance operations in Mexico City,'

= Helms-testified:

The reason for the sensitivity of these tele-

phone taps and surveillance was not only be-

cause it was sensitive from the Agency's

standpoint, but the telephone taps were run-

ning in conjunction with the Mexican authori-?Y

ties and therefore, if this had become public

knowledge, it would have caused very bad feel-

ings between

and that was the reason.

of chapel s

8/9/78-

hearing+ 08-51-526

Nevertheless, the CIA had provided information to

the FBI regarding the Mexico City surveillance operations

priox to the assassination and during the post-assassination

79815100844164

Furtherman

period

ener

2) .

as

of November 28, 1963 the White House, through information

made available by DCI McCone to National Security Councils

had boon male

Director McGeorge Bundy,

aware that the CIA had tele-

phone taps in operation against the Cuban and Soviet Em-

bassy/Consulatesand that

through these taps Oswald's pre-

sence in Mexico City prior to the assassination had been

a corroborated.

Liite

Mo Cone Men to Me Georg, Brendy

---

## Page 63

- 23 -

unwillingness

The CIA's

- to inform the warren Commission

of the above-described surveillance operations

in the early stages

of this in-

vestigation

th

the

IS a sQuIce

of concern to this committee.

MeciA felt unconfortabli

substance

the Warren Commission.

"see scelso dea. This process

might well have hampered the Commission's ability to pro-

ceed in its investigation with all the facts before it,

even those nich might have meant exposing certain sensi-

tive operations to the connission. 'e'll have do out rumpie.

As noted previously, on January 31, 1964, the CIA

herpreten

provided the Warren Commission with a memorandum that

chronicled Lee Harvey Oswald's Mexico City visite during i lo

September 26, 1963 - October 3, 1963. That memorandum

did, noten zion mone

that

Oswald's various conver-

sations with the Cuban and Sovati Embassy/Consulatés had *

irin

been tapped and

subseguently transcribed. Furthermore,

L..c.

26-08616

did

that memorandum

notention e

к ca that the CIA

had tapped and transcribed conversations between Cuban

Embassy employee Sylvia Duran and Soviet officials at

the Soviet Embassy/Consulate nor was mention made of the

conversations between Cuban President Dorticos and Cuban

3/23

Arras

Ambassador to Mexico which the CIA had also tapped and

transcribed.

---

## Page 64

On February 1, 1964, Helms appeared before the

Commission laee abovet and likely discussed the memoran-

dum of January S/ , 1964:

LIA FolA Do # 498-204,29 San 1964, 11897829}

On Feburary 10, 1964, J. Lee

Rankin wrote Helms in regard to

the CIA memorandum of

≤ JFKE DOC NO. -

January 31.

A review of Rankin's letter indicates that.

at tanak as of t

his wrotirs., the Warren Commission

had no substantive knowledge of the telephone surveillance

operation or the production i.e., the tapes and trans-

cripts, from that operation. Rankin inquired in the Feb-

ruary 10, 1964 letter whether Oswald's direct communica-

tion with employees of the Soviet Embassy (as stated in

Paragraph of the January 31 memorandum) had been facilitated

by telephone or interview. Manifestly, if the Warren Com-

mission had been informed of the telephone surveillance

operation and its success in tapping Oswald this inquiry

by Rankin would not have been made. Josi

Raymond Rocca's testimony tends to support this

conclusion. It was Rocca's recollection that between

the time period of January 1964 - April 1964, Warren Com-

mission's representatives had visited the CIA's headguar-

ters in Langley; Virginia and had been shown various trans-

cripts resulting from the CIA's telephond surveillance

ASest classif es dep. of Rasmord Rocca, 7/14/78,p89

operations in Mexico City. (Bocca dep, p.89) However,

Mr. Rocca did not personally make this material available

to Commission representatives and was not able to state

under oath precisely the point in time at which the Warren

firt

Commission learned of these operations. 5Ibia}

---

## Page 65

ILA

- 25-

On February 19, 1964 the

inquiry of February 10.

The Agency response did indi-

cate that Oswald had phoned the Soviet Consulate and was

also interviewed at the Consulate. However, the Agency did

neither

with reveal th

the source of this information in its response

His source

to the commissiontor indicate that do would be reveale

by other means (e.g. by oral briefing). LIbid S

Male comman enouledge of lAsersonara

During the period of March - April 1964, David

Slawson drafted a series of memoranda which among other

issues concerned Warren Commission knowledge of and access

to the production material derived from the CIA telephonde

surveillance operations in Mexico City. A review of

these memoranda tendf to support the Committee's belief'ju?

Ries

that the Warren Commission, through Mssrs. Slawson, Coleman, l

and Willens did not obtain access to CIA telephone surveil-

- That dat

ance materials until April 9, 1964. At that time, Coleman

Salwson and Willens met with win scott, the CIA's Chief

"'to mit.

Scott

of Station in Mexico City,

w provided them with various

transcripts and translations derived from CIA telephone

taps of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy/Consulates. (Slawson

Memorandum of April 22, 1964, Subject: Irip to Mexto City J

Herever, prior to t

Apail. 9

it appears doubtful

that the Commission had been given even partial access

to the referenced material. Nevertheless, by March 12,

---

## Page 66

- 26 -

1964, the record indicates that the Warren Commission

had at least become aware that the CIA did maintain

telephonds surveillance of the Cuban Embassy/Consulate.

(Slawson memorandum, March 12, 1964, Subj: meeting with

CIA representatives). slawson's memorandum fever t

"bers the Warren Commission had learned that CIA hates

possess sod transcripts of conversations between the Cuban

Ambassador to MeXICO, Armas, and the Cuban President Dorticos.

Porticos-Armass

The conversations, requested by the Warren Commission

representatives at a meeting with CIA officials, including

Richard Helms,

= concerned Silvia

Durra's arrest and interrogation by the Mexican Federal

slavsonmemoraridia .fApril23, 1964 PP3,19,45-46 )

Police

(cite?).

mur to Helms responded to the Com

mission's request for access,

stading

that he would

attempt to arrange for the Warren Commission representatives

to review a this material. (slawson memoi March 12, 1964)p 6J

It should be noted that the records reviewed do not

reveal the manner in which the Commission learned of the

Dorticos-Armas intercepts.

•" As detailed above, both the FBI

and white House (through MeGeorge Bundy) were aware of the

CIA's telephonic surveillance activities in Mexico City.

Su

(Cite)

One or the other could well have provided the war-

ren Commission with this information. Nevertheless, Ray™.

mond Rodas' testimony as cited herein (Rocca đep.

lends some support

to the position that the Commission had

been informed of the Dorticos-Armas conversations through

the CIA's initiative.

---

## Page 67

- 27. -

Another Slawson memorandum, dated March 25, 1964

concerned Oswald's trip to Mexico. Slawson therein stated

that the tentative conclusions!

concernin

- Oswald's

Mexico trip,

that he had reacher

were derived from CIA

memorandas of January 31, 1964 and February 19, 1964, Slawsrândum

March 2201964,

and in addition a Mexican federal police summary of pro

interrogations conducted shortly after the assassination

with certain Cuban Embassy employees. Slawson wrote:

A large part of it (the summary report) is

simply a summation of what the Mexican police

learned when they interrogated Mrs. Silvia

Duran, (sic) an employee of the Cuban Consulate

in Mexico City, and is therefore only as accu-

rate as Mrs. Duran's testimony to the police. LIbial

These comments indicate that Salwson placed limited

reliance upon the Mexican police summary. Moreover, there

is no indication that Salwson had been provided the Duran

telephonk intercept transcripts. In fact, by virtue of

Slawson's comments conerning the Mejican police report,

it would appear that the Warren Commission, as of March 25,

had been provided little substantive information pertaining

to Sylvia Duran.

Insert pa:8

The Committee's belief that Slawson had not been

given access to the Duran transcripts is further supported

by reference to his memorandum offMarch 27, 1964 LEP 6,92)

wherein he states his conclusion

that Oswald had visite

Ibiapa.

the Cuban Embassy on three occasions.

This

conclusion

he Wife us based upon an analysis of Sylvia Duran's testi-

mony before the Mexican police.

Ihis memocandus bears

= no

---

## Page 68

Insert

from

- 28-

indication that he had reviewed any of the Duran

transcripts. Furthermore,'

Slawson

had been given access

to these transcripts, certainly their substance would have

been incorporated into his analysis and accordingly noted

for this purpose. His analysis odould have reflected

the fact of this me eiled ther by its corroboration or

criticism of the Mexican police summary report.

PrInsetpag

warch 25, 1964, the reford sinstates that

the Warren

Co

shon

itss

Forts to

avestigaite

Oswald

activities

Rico catsas as been gents,

a

Less to the Duran transcripts.

Whe Commission had been

forced to rely upon the two memoranda that did not make

serpenst

reference to the surveillance operations

report.

Israeah, Mexican Federal Politand

an summary

Thus, the Agency had been successful for

over three months in not exposing the surveillance opera-

tions to the review of the concerned Warren Commission

staff members. As was stated in the CIA cable of Decem-

ber 20, 1964 to its Mexico City Station:

Our present plan in passing information to

the Warren Commission is to eliminate mention

of telephone taps, in order to protect your

continuing operations. Will rely instead

on statements of Silvia Duran and on contents

of Soviet consular file which Soviets gave

ODACID here.

(CIA Gable,

DÍR 90466, FOIA#420-757, Dec. 20,

1964 CIA p. 2144)

On Mar

27, 1961 81awson

mined that

oswald

had visite

wrote that

deter-

the Caban Embassy

three

Erin ding:

---

## Page 69

- 29

times. He stated that this conclusion was based upon his

review of Silv

la Duran's testamony to

the Mexican

(Slawson mentorandum, Marc

1964

CIA p. IaM2) Howerer,

Slawson does not state

that his

from review of any of the pr

Conclusion

were also drawn

duction from the Mexico City

station surveillance operations.

Stawson does indicate,

however,

that

his feasoning

ambiguous regardine swald's

visit to the Cubar Embassy.

VLogically, access to the ClA's

telephonic surveillance production would have clarified sone

ambiguities. For example, on September 27, at 4:05 p.m.{S/aws.m

ried

alies;

Eliversa

Silvia Duran telephoned the Soviet Embassy, and stated

that an American was presently at the Cuban Embassy re-

and Cutor

coders.son

questing an in-transit visit to Cuba. This American was fameri

Pa3

determined by CIA analysts to be Oswald. Again on Septem-

i feelins

ber 28, at 11:51 a.m. Duran telephoned the Soviet Consulate

stating that an American, identified by CIA analysts as

UNas

LIbid pusthe cit had Fortio

Oswald

at the Cuban Embassy.'

Thus, C

definitively established that Oswald had

visited the Cuban Embassy on at least two occasions.

Moreover, the specific datesand exact times of his presence

in the Cuban Embassy ma established as the result of the

(abid)

telephonic surveillance. Had this information been made

available to Slawson, his calcuations of Oswald's activities

in Mexico City would have been more firmly established

than they were as of March 27, 1964. These transcripts

---

## Page 70

erasi.

1:°

- 30 -

could have been made available to the Warren Commission

at ito sneeption.but as the record matcates they were

not then made avariable.

The record supports the Committee's finding that

as of April 2, 1964 the Warren Commission had still not

been given access to the above-referenced series of tele-

uphondeintercepts. In a memorandum of that date by Coleman

it tani posed

and Slawson, they articulatedone question to the CIA and

two requests for information from the agency? (abassador.

Stunsorantleman

sabi:@uestionskaisedbytheAr

unn tHe memor AptIT 2, 1964, CIA p1975) my notesay Colemanan

wrote:

1) What is the information source referred to in

the November 28 telegram that Oswald intended

to settle down in Odessa;

notes.

2) We would like to see copies of the transcripts

of the intercepts, translated if possible, in

refer

all cases where the intercepts side to the

assassination or related subjects;

3) We would especially like to see the intercept

--"

in which the allegation that money was passed

the Cuban Embassy is discussed LIbid)

The questroll Itefally posedlin the above-referenced

memorandum of April 2 concerns

the CIA telephone intercept

(Slawson nemo

of September 27, 1963 at 10didOnERAeSOA April

1964, elA p. 3223).

Necessarily

1f slawson Found-it

necesserytorequest

MARAT

the source of the information, he had not, been

as yet

---

## Page 71

access,

provided.

to the

origeral material

toy FreciA

which

a scrimi

ne

(Item Number ters I the abs re-

listing

The

first Coleman Starson request t

tends ta shoc

that

tamission

• had

notbeen

given access,

concerning the assassination

• (as

adicates the femiss lant

hang intent

aquaction

3) .

to intercepts fit

A picongrate relevans

breever

attring

sequest

Hey had nor seen

given a

The s

post,

tem number three of the above

1,57009

reveals that the intercept of the Dorticos-Arman

conversation of November 22, 1964, in which the passing

of monies de discussed had not as of April 2 been provided

to the Commission. The Commission had specifically requested

the Dorticos-Armas transcripts Of the March 12, 1964

meeting between Commission representatives and Agency re-

presentatives. (Cite no.

Marh12196

On April 3, 1964, Coleman and Slawson articulated

their concern for receiving complete access to all materials

relevant to Oswald's Mexico City trip: They-wrote:-

The most probable final result of the entire

investigation of Oswald's activities in Mexico is

a conclusion that he went there for the purpose

of trying to reach Cuba and that no bribes, con-

spiracies, etc. took place.

...

...

---

## Page 72

- 33

Upon the group's arrival in Mexico City, they were met

by U.S. Ambassador Freeman, Claire Boonstra of the State

Department, Clarke Anderson of the FBI, and Winston Scott of

the CIA. SIb, App9-103

That same day during a meeting between the Commission

representatives and Win Scott, Scott made available to the

group actual and it of the telephone surve lance

operations and English translations. of the game. In addition,

he provided the group with reels of photographs for the

time period covered by Oswald's visit that had resulted from

photosurveillance of the Cuban and Soviet Embassy entrances

David Slawson wrote:

...MI. Scott stated at the beginning of his narrative

that he intended to make a complete disclosure of all

facts, including the sources of his information, and

that he understood that all three of us had been cleared

fOI TOP SECRET and that we would not disclose beyond

the confines of the Commission and its immediate staff

the information we obtained through him without first

clearing it with his superiors in Washington.

agreed to this." (S100 emp 22, 1904, D. 223

Mr. Scott described to the Commission representatives

the CIA's course of action immediately following the assassination;

scott indicated that his statt immediately

began to compile

dossiers on Oswald, Duran, and everyone else throughout Mexico

whom the CIA knew had had some contact with Oswald (5 22)

scott revealedthat

all known Cuban and Russian intelligence agents

Yad immediately been put under surveillance following the

assassination.

Lia

son

wa

set up with Mexican

officials,

particularly duis tcheter

ia

sting

inister

the

Mexican

cobernacion a 23241.

Slawson then concluded

---

## Page 73

- 34 -

"Scott's narrative plus the material we were shown dis-

closed immediately how incorrect our previous

information had been in Oswald's contacts with the

Apparently the

distortions and omissions to which our information had

been subjected had entered some place in Washington,

because the CIA information that we were shown by Scott

was unambiguous on almost all the crucial points. We

had previously planned to show Scott, Slawson's

reconstruction of Oswald's probable activities at the

embassies to get Scott's opinion, but once we saw how

badly distorted our information was we realized that

Therefore, instead, we decided

to take as close note as possible from the original

spurce materials at some later time during our visit."

serials at some

122/17

Slawson's memorandum of April 21, 1964 records the results

of the notetaking from original source materials that he did

following Scott's disclosures. These notes dealtexclusively

with the telephonic interceptspertainingerrespectively

evident from Slawson

denial of original source materials, in this case the telephonic

surveillance intercepts, seriously impaired the Commission's

accurately reasoned

ability to draw conclusions regarding Oswald's sojourn in Mexico

City,

It meant that as

of April 10, 1964, nearing the halfway point of the Warren

Commission investigation, the Commission was forced to retrace

the factual path by which it had structured Oswald's activities

in Mexico City. It further revealed that the Agency had

provided ambiguous information to the Commission when, in fact

"on almost all the crucial points"s

significantly more precise

cout have pees made

materials me available for analysis by the commission.) id

---

## Page 74

Thus, the Agency's early policy of not providing the Commission

with

vitally relevant information derived from certain

sensitive sources and methods had seriously undermined the

investigation and possibly foreclosed lines of investigation

that might have been more seriously considered had t

material been expeditiously provided;

e.g., Cuban involvement

in this resitions.

Mexico City Mystery Man

Ferspeced Agent Odum shower

On November 23, 1963, Marguerite Oswald was shown Ge

EnT

dam a photograph of a man bearing no

Earren Commission Report p-

physical resemblance to her son

That photograph had been

supplied to the FBI on November 22 by the CIA's Mexico City

Station after Agency representatives had

searched their files

ECIA Doc DDP4-1555, 25Ma

in an effort to locate information on Oswald.

This photographall

was one in a series

resulting from the CIA's photosurveillance

operations against the Soviet and Cuban Embassy/Consulates l it

had been linked by the Mexico City Statior

prior to the

assassination,'

-CoLee Harvey Oswalt

Richard Helms, in a sworn

affidavit before the Warren Commission, stated that the

photograph shown to Marguerite Oswald had been taken on October 4,

1963 in Mexico City and mistakenly linked at that time to

Oswald.

§wartenConzia

On February 10, 1964, Marguerite Oswald testified before

the Warren Commission and recounted the circumstances under

which she was shown the photograph

§ Warren Commisrin Reporti

Mrs. Oswald testified that

she believed this photograph to have been of Jack Ruby.

(p. 153)

---

## Page 75

- 36 -

wait an

Thereafter, on

February

12, 1964, J. Lee Rankin wrote

Thomas Karamesmes Assistant D.DP

to i

net,

regarding the

•circumstances

this photograph "by the

Central Intelligence Agency.

Told

Rankin

reques ted that

the Commission be

the identity of the individual

coas

depicted in the photograph if that information

available.

ELetter of J, Lee Rinkia, Feb. 15, 1941,

]

on that same day, in a separate letter, te des nobone.

Rankin wrote dare ention hat been norton the bore

Since Novembe 33,1943

Service. that/the CIA had disseminated several reports of

communications concerning the assassination to the Secret

writ

service se

requested coples of these

710964645

reports and other materials. Three

cables other

concerne

the photographnof the individualer@'nandf.

by the MeRica titshala and subsequently shown to

A-

wesson, lamong the materials

bytreciA

disseminated to the Secret ServEdo. 196y November 26

COIADOC PIRRF5177

dissemination (PISTIEN, aeopy-d which very transmitter to

PiCos

themberret ferree. That cable concerned the Dort-Armas

conversations and disclosed the existence of CIA telephonic

surveillance operations in Mexico City'at the time of the

assassination and Oswald's

scelso testitle regaraing the circumstances

surrounding the eventual explanation given to the Commission

of the origin of the photograph in question. Scelso stated:

---

## Page 76

- 37 -

"We did not initially disclose to the Warren

Commission all of our technical operations.

In other

words, we did not initially disclose to them that we

had photosurveillance because the November photo we had

(Of MMM) was not of Oswald. Therefore it did not mean

anything, you see?"

Mr. Goldsmith:

...So the Agency was making a unilateral

decision that this was not relevant to the Warren

Commission.

Scelso: Right, we were not authorized, at first, to reveal

all our technical operations.

of John

5/44/28

Pin February 13, 1906 h

Lard

unknowingly

righter tighth the Warren

Commission

telephonic surveillance production' las discussed in the

sider the do the a sclose the photosurveillance operations,

to the warren commust hi to cause concern within

the Agency.

On March 5, 1967, Raymond Rocca wrote in an internal

memorandum to Richard Helms that "we have a problem here for

your determination. " Rocca outlined Angleton's desire not to

respond directly to Rankin's request of February 12 regarding

CIA material forwarded to the Secret Service since November 23,

1964.

Rocca then stated:

"Unless you feel otherwise, Jim would prefer

to wait out the Commission

on the matter covered by

• paragraph 2 (of the above-referenced February 12

letter).

If they come back on this point he feels

that you, or someone from here, should be prepared to

go over to show the Commission the material rather than

pass them to them in copy. Incidentally, none of these

items are of new substantive interest.

We have either

passed the material in substance to the Commission in

response to earlier levies ei the items another Items

refer to aborted leads, for example, the famous sex

photographs which are not of Oswald..."fCIADOe F01A#574-23

1 (Rocca memo 5 March 64, FOIA 579-250) 61

---

## Page 77

- 47 -

Calderon's 201 file reveals that she arrived in

Mexico City from Havana on January 16, 1963, carrying

Cuban Passport E/63/7. Her date of birth was believed

to be 194651515paten

no dategiver

HMMA21612) Calderon's presence in

Mexico City

was first reported by the CIA on July 15,

1963 in a dispatch from the CIA's Miami field office to

the CIA's Mexico City stâtion and to the Chief of the CIA's

< CIA DOC, DESPATCH UFCA 00E

Special Affairs Staff (for Cuban operations). That dis-155ue 1865)

patch had attached to it a report containg biographic data

on personnel then assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

City. At page three of the attached report Luisa Calderon

was listed as Secretary of the Cuban Embassy's commercial

office. The notation indicated that a report was pending

LIbid, prof attachonet?

on Calderon.

The Agency has attempted, without success,

to locate the report.

On September 1, 1963, a dispatch was sent from

the Chief of the Special Affairs Staff to the Chief of

CiA DEC

tie Station in Mexico City (Dispatch HMMW 11935%, {Sgat 1963 3

toda calderon's association wich the centen

recordeed

was first reported by the CIA on May 5, 1964.

90194498564

+01868-298 5May196

time, Hasete Swenson, Chief of Counterintelligence for the

special Affairs Staff, recorded the results of his de

briefing of the Cuban defector, AMMUG-1. The memorandum

stated that AMMUGhad no direct knowledge of Lee Harvey

Oswald or his activities but was able to provide items

of interest based upon the comments of certain Cuban In-

Th.s

dispaten

Reported that:

Gover

---

## Page 78

- 48 -

telligence Service officers

IBIDS

was

Specifically, AMMUG-] had

been asked if Oswald was known to the Cuban intelligence

services before November 23, 1963. AMMUG-1 tola Sendon e

as-recordest in the May 5 memorandum that "Prior to October

1963, Oswald visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on

indent

two or three occasions. Before, during and after these

visits, Oswald was in contact with the Direccion General

De Intelligencia (DGI), specifically with Luisa Calderon,

Manuel Vega Perez, and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez"' SI BIR}

hangose

Swenson thereafter wrote that Calderon's precise

relationship to the DGI was not clear. As a comment to

this statement he set forth the CIA cable and dispatch

traffic which recorded her arrival in Metico and departure, darre

for Cuba. LIBIDE

Largord

On May 7, 1964, Swenson recorded additional informa-

tion he had elicited from AMMUG-1 regarding Oswald's

{CHADOR F01A 687-295, attach. 3

possible contact with the DGI.

Paragraph 3 of this memoran-

dum stated in part:

"a. Luisa Calderon, since she returned to

Cuba, has been paid a regular salary

by the DGI even

though she has not per-

formed any services.

Her home is in

the Vedado section where the rents are

high.

b. Source (AMMUG) has known Calderon for

several years.

Before going to Mexico,

she worked in the Ministry of Exterior

Commerce in the department which was

known as the

"Empress Transimport."

Her title was Secretary General of the

Communist Youth in the department named

in the previous sentence. (TBID

---

## Page 79

- 49 -

hangosch

• On May 8 Swenson further disclosed AMMUG's know-

[IBID, attach. 5

ledge of the Oswald case.

werson paraphrased AMMUG'

5o054

knowledge of Calderon as follows:

I thought that Luisa Calderon might have

had contact with Oswald because I learned about

17 March 1964, shortly before I made

a trip to

Mexico, that she had been involved with an

American in Mexico. The information to which

I refer was told to me by a DGI case officer...

I had commented to (him) that it seemed strange

that Luisa Calderon was receiving a salary from

the DGI althought she apparently did

not do any

work for the Service. (The case officer) told

me that hers was a peculiar case and that he

himself believed that she had been recruited in

Mexico by the Central Intelligence Agency al-

though Manuel Pineiro,

the Head of the DGI, did

not agree.

As I recall, (the case officer) had

investigated Luisa Calderon.

This was because,

during the time she was in Mexico, the DGI had

intercepted a letter to her by an American who

signed his name OWER (phonetic) or something

As you know, the pronunciation of

Anglo-Saxon names is difficult in Spanish so

I am not sure of how the name mentioned by Hernan-

dez should be spelled. It could have been "Howard"

or something different.

As I understand the matter,

the letter from the American was a love letter

but indicated that there was a clandestine-

professional relationship between the writer and

Luisa Calderon.

I also understand from (the

case officer) that after the interception of

the letter she had been followed and seen in the

company of an American.

I do not know It this

could have been Oswald...( Ibid

On May 11, Raymond Rocca wrote a memorandum

to Director Richard Helms regarding the information Swenson

§CIA DUE FOlA 687-295, Roccamemorandtim, 11 May 156

had elicited from AMMUG.

Rocca proposed that "the DDP

in person or via a designee, preferably the former, dis-

cuss the AMMUG/1 sitation on a very restricted basis

with Mr. Rankin at his earliest convenience either at

the Agency or at the Commission headquarters. Until this

---

## Page 80

- 50 -

akes place, It is not desirable to put anything in writ-

-Ibid.p.zs

ing: (11 May 64, Rocca memo, FOIA687 295 with/4 attachments).

On May 15, 1964, Helms wrote Rankin regarding.

AMMUG's information about the DGI, indicating its sensi-

ICA DO 5014687-294 Helms

tivity and operational significance.

Attached

to Helms'›

15 May146

communication was a paraphrased accounting of tensors

May 5 memorandum. (ite hiS memo, May 15, 1961, FOIA 697-2917.

In that attachment the intelligence associations of

Manuel Vega Perez and Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez are set

forth. However, that attachment fakes no reference what-

soever to Luisa Calderon.

Howard Willens of the Warren Commission, requested

Go 6.20550

as a follow-up to the May 15 memorandum, to look at the

Langosch',

-CIADOLFOA

questions used in Swensen's interrogation of AMMUG(Dooley 739-3.

memo-fo Muca, 19 June 1964 FOES 729 3203. On June 18,

1964 Arthur Dooley of Rocca's counterintelligence research

and Analysis group took the questions and AMMUG's responses

to the Warren Commission's officers for Willen's review.

Langosch'

Willens saw Swenson's May 5 memorandum. The only mention

of pideron was as follows: "The precise relationship of

Luisa Calderon to the DGI is not clear. She spent about

six months in

Mexico from which she returned to Cuba early

Langarch's

"However, Willens was not shown the Swenson mearan

dum of May 7 and May 8, 1964 which contained much more

detailed information on Luisa Calderon, including her possible

---

