# 180-10143-10104

## Page 1

180-10143-10104

G002450

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

FORET

Mexi 7023

М: 9/28 Zape would have seen Mased dy 10/1.

A. I. would know bettar..

Mexi 7024.

Hi Can't recall if 9/24 conviation knows ty that tome

- YAN 7025 A.b.

Keprte calls of 1/15 10/1.

MurL 4028 X. Scott

Doesnt. Mcall if they haw of 9/28 conscuation refore ther

Mexi 7025

Last para

wet see fuked whetter a wee sane?

estably

Mexi 1034 1/23 Alex Skite

star at conducted → that wolf this lint spent on s mut lo

s00. Ent.

Техно 7033 (1933)

Details recods of conversations -thes was after 6'3

2:

ReN:

This was becaus we bidst lave IN.

..ustructions were on the materals

sent le met in spee or at cal pile ot

I: Unusual if WHO Meted Ent. 5 times that the wouldst have been

photigraphed.

10/43-101041

---

## Page 2

0002451

SECRET

I: Has Etaneore Varetty I support wick; Chauffeued Scott wrend; Led S53, pelle

- hate al te tip merations

- Cast give Fell diates: somewhat compattnertetized

Takes in support aspect

rumors to efect that HAS lad Meated photo of LtD

A: Doukt recall; does't recall meurig phote;

There is a plots me LAD'S M.l. file need. Mon

Did a full, korest, trower jo

I: Not surprising that ts didat seld photo- wasat important enough.

ait slues that it a anoulutely unlikely that hAD had a peoplastial

nection w/ Postie beaude is nature of cattact

M.6..

Дан:

C. Howard Huat: no

Munce Biskop: no

1Ho as ntell: agent?

It men, Here would have been a 201 pele.

10/11 catle gwes 2 201 #

Hi set old save gotte fs. partecally die to chis setter elep lose

peeads) w/ Angletor.

Dobeat know why 10110. late to MC would have gone is taresnessis.

Thinks it was walsual for that time period.

---

## Page 3

6002452

iLi.

I lesses tat set ined as dentedge are to.

I he would

have knows also..

10/1 Lasscust : Note at to

"Prerously trancested'

i would mean that it was a spared

У:

constran

Horian involvement: ns

: not I M.C.

isntersew coxcluded 12:10p.m.

..... ....

---

