# 180-10144-10410

## Page 1

180-10144-10410

05- FYI HEmment

'Employe.

Relevent Information from

swald 201 re

mad attle Phillies

ending

1.

tracle copies enmiellance

Phillips saw them

2.

dause first cable reportina

not have a routing slip

attatched oThis cable

prisinated pith releases

by Min Scott ) There is no

thas the determine front.

lave Phillips had anythin

to do with this caled

The cable is dated 10/8/63

THIS COPY IS NOI

FOR RELEASE.

180-10 144-10410

---

## Page 2

4

The first document in

Oswald's Mexican 201 that

went to oo Phillips was

an 11/25/63 cable to HQ

reminder of Castras

threat at the Brazilian.

embassy

On the same day a

Cable from IMWAVE (WAUZ 8149,

101=573) was routed to

Phillips. It reported a phone

call from one Carbaca

Cubans The call, from

mess type is thi

secret dervice. During this

call one of the parties

said that Castro was

behind the assassination

ind that Bobby was next

The INWAVE Cable gave the Ar

incorrect 201 number for

---

## Page 3

Line

On the routin

ip hillips rate tho

chills are." The Secret sevice

investigated and filede

report on 12/4/13

The next cable routed to

Phillips, also darted 11/26/63,

concerned the initial

interie of silberto

Alverez Ugarte. 1

70671

124-54).

On 11/28/03 the file indicates

that Phillips recieved the

Between 1/26 and i/28 there

is no indication that

Palips reined anything

---

## Page 4

s..

After Ugarte was delivered

to the Mexican authorities

Phillips started recoiving

major plations of the,

assassination that wa

adonne dealin

placing Dinaldata

nt in Mexico Cite

with Sylvia Duran and

Cuban Ambassador Armas.

"Iknew.him in

---

## Page 5

10-

An examination of Nunez's

201 reveals that

livere associated in anti-

Castro efforts ascarlyas

959 when they met in

un attempt to consolidate

forces

On October 1963 Phillips

to a is sting on preparing

operations memad at the

Phillips son tober

condiltation with IMWAVE

officers. He returned to

Mexico and ass

imed he

duties as chiel of ole 1463.

---

