# 194-10010-10422

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

12/17/97

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10010-10422

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: XE327040WJE

PAGES

1594

- 1595

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

..

FROM

I RESTRICTED

DATE

TO : [ RESTRICTED ]

TITLE : LETTER

DATE : 10/11/60

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

: SLOBODA, VLADIMIR WALTER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET Release

PAPERA TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

:1B, 3

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

John F. eagedy Assassinatior

Records Collection Act of 199

14 USC 2107 Not

3y AKi

tte illl

---

## Page 2

SECRET

REF. S/PP. 99234

TEL: Rhine Army 3277

To: Headquarters,

513 Military Intelligence Group,

APO 757, US Toross.

MC - 002004

HEADQUARTERS

BRITISH SERVICES SECURITY

ORGANISATION

BRITISE FORCES POST OPTICE 4

|/ Ootober, 1960,

005}

12.0

Subjects VLedimir SIOBODA

Your reference ABGNO-S Piles X$-327040 of 11 Sep 60.

A copy of your letter quoted above with enclosures wus sent by us to the

Vl. Security Authorities.

They have now replied that they have no previoue trace

of the various individuals nomed in the queationnaires sent by you.

Enquiries made regarding Michael SIOBODA show that he arrived in the UK or

3 yar 48 at the see time as hia brother Vadimir.

Michael SLOBODA was in

possession of U.S. Certifioate of Idantity PC 011766 issued in FRANKPURE on

5 Feb 48.

He da at proment living at 46 Woodlands Boad, Cheethen, Manchester,

and 1a employed an a ospoten operator for Baldwin and Frenois Limited, Bogineers,

of Altrinchen, Cheshire.. Nothing ia know to his detriment.

When Michael SLOBODA was Interviewed in Jul 51, he stated that he had lived

in LIOl and assisted on his father'e farm until Oot 42 when he was taken to

KASSEL to work an a shepherd. He stayed on the farm owed by Auguat LEDAQUE

(presumably August LADADE referred to by you) for five ad a half years unt1l he

At that time he said that he had had no news of his parents and

sister, wom be had left in LNOW, sinoo 1944. He was denoribed as a Greek

Catholic by religion, of typioal peasant stock and average intelligence.

assified.

In Apr 59 Michael SLOBODA applied for a Home Office Travel Document at.

that he wished to go to Germy to vinit his brother.

Michael SIdHA left

UK on 19 May 59 and retured on 25 Ang 59.

There in no infomation at present

to show that he visited Germy again this year.

5-

The Manchester Police are being asked to interview Michsel SLOBODA and to

vestion him on the various points radaed by you.

Attached ia a photograph of

ichnal SLOBODA am requested by you. It is believed that the photograph was take

in 1959.

bond The or Beard a hooting to got in out on an a the alter KOLAINST

45

Nothing is lnow to har detriment or to th

detriment of her nother, Mrs, SUPCLIPTS. Mro. SIOBODA said that should sha

receive my lotters from her huaband, ana would lacodlately inform the police md

let then noo the latter.

She did not mention her husbind's letter shloh he wrote

to her at her OBERORSEL padreus.

8. She win aurried to Vladimir SLOBODA in Pob 53 at Halifax, md they resided

together there mtil 4 Mg 53 when Vledinir Joined the US Army.

her husband to the USA and alao lived with hin in Germany. locording to

She adoompanded

/information

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDUL

CR - 64 - 02243

PAGE 0f 2_ PAGES

COPY 3C 4_ COPIES

1594

-CR - 622-07-00

513 Reg. Nr. 5-60 - 3014

---

## Page 3

MC - 002 0 04

SECRET

- 2 -

information available to the UK Authorities, Vladimir SLOBODA firut visited

Germany with the idea of Joining the US Any during Oot 51, and in Jul 52 he wan

In possession of a latter from the US Testing and Interviewing Team instruoting

him to report to the HEIDELBERC Military Post, 38СКINHЕТ, on 20 11g 52 for

processing to determine his eligibility for mlintment.

A. J. BAUERS

or Brizad 1o.

Commander, British Services Security Organication

S1411a

automalicing declass lad,

46

SECRET

1595

CR - 64-02 2 4

PAGE 2 0l 2 PAGES

COPY 3 4 COPIES

"GR

0799

59-

---

