# 194-10013-10328

## Page 1

Date : 10/16/98

Page

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10013-10328

RECORDS

SERIES:

FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: C8005823W

- PAGES

2406 - 2413

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

USA

FROM

TO

TITLE

: CONTACT REPORT

DATE

: 12/06/68

PAGES

SUBJECTS

" RESTRICTED

"PERSONAL. MEETING WITH J-315

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS:

1B,

2

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

JFK bin)

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

• COMMENTS :

•--------

---

## Page 2

SUSJRCT: Personal Mostang wdth J-375

DATE: 6 Dacenber 2968

CH NO: I-B-GR-284-68

PROJECT: QUASHED T

L4 ES CIRCUSTANCES OR CONTACT:

G/0 met subject at 1330 hours, 3: Decemier 1960, for the purpose of

terminating the source. Most of the meeting compisted of having lunch

mile the C/D permitted the source to relieve his desire to talk about

the previous two months: frustrations, uncertainties and fear axperienced

Ty the source and bie wife, 1-315/li, as e result of the imprisomment of

J-315/12 and 20315/73.

b. The source bad been asking rapeatedly durine this time for personal

meetinge with the C/0, These requests were turned down for reasona of

security unt11 1t nas decided to hold the termination neeting. The d/o

dacided to lot thé sourca unturden his desire to talle to the G/0 and

thas relieve his frastrations and get bim in a good fran of mind.

c. C/d not the subject at the New England Dyster Fouse, 125th Street and

Biscayas Blvde. The 0/0 took an indirect route to the mating site. After

lunch the G/o mad the source sat in the subject's vehicle, 1969 chevrolet

station wagon, Florida Idsense Plate 168323, and signed the necessary

receipts and documants incident to the termination. The source then drove

off, The G/0 then entered his car, oparational vehicle Chery II, Florida

License IE-7522, and drove to the shopping plaza at 7th Avenue and Illth St.

where he called his office, advised them of is successful end safe termina

tion, then took a dolibarate and circuitous route to bie home in Hallywood.

2406

/ REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON OGT 181994.

••.

0 022

BY CDR USAIN COM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA: -03 DOD 5200.1-R

---

## Page 3

The meeting ended at 1625 hours and no surveillance afterwards was detauted.

Lunch was consumed in virtual isoltation, for there were no other dinete

within 20 feet.

2{V(5)

OFERATIONAL DISCUSSIONS:

a, The G/O listened to the sources conversation during lunch and

obtained the news that J-315/12 was no longer 12 prison In the t2 offices,

but had bean transferred to & large holding cam at La Gabana Prison as

part of a group of several hundred atter profensional men such as doctors,

lawyers, ett. He had bean assigned duties at the diepansary in hid capa

city as a surgeon and doctor, and he was in good health and was allowed

violtors once a rock. His sile, J-315/73, had been transferred also to a

romm's rehabilitation senter at an unimon location on the outaldats of

Hovans. She has also raceived good treatment, performs no duties; and is

gaining weight. She lost while being questioned by the G-2. Both une

being well treated, have been given permiasion to urite to relatives in

the U,S., and have already done s0.

b. J-315 sodd that ha and his wile were very relieved at the above

turn of events. Both bolteve that this indicates that their appeals through

the Vatican (Jesuits) and the medical community vere instrumental in tbie

decision not to execute the two.

c, I-315 believes that his father-in-law, J-315/12, blamed any wrong-

doing he sas acoused of by the GOt on hir, J-315, J-315 belleves that

J-315/12 probably admitted to sona activity against the G0C, was probably

repentant, and accepted the usual offer ofisahabilitation for himpelf and

his kate. Ju315 seemed quite happy that his efforts i BOlinSi

2407

2

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON OCT 1 0 1994

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOUPO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200:1-R

---

## Page 4

prisoners.

He feels that by permitting the present situation to contime

a few months, thus allowing a cooling off period", the situation may

bacone favorable for further appeals of a hummitarian nature, requesting

the prisoners' pardon and possible axit from Giba. The G/0, of course,

agreed that the shange of prison, astigment to duty and permission to

write, certainly indieatad that the God was not considering violent action,

and expresed his own ard the organization's gratification at this good.

nows, J-315 stated that wan he felt the cooling off period had passed,

he had gone nore laces" to play, and asked the c/Ots opinion.

do J-315 stated that a friend of bie, one Miguel FIQUEROA, presently.

a professor at the University of Puerto Rico, and also the Cuban First

Segretary in Rome during the baginning of Horld War II. At that time Gube

and Italy sevared relations: Aa & ramlt, FIGUROA was Interned in, o

Biven rofuge in Vatisan City during the wer yeare. FIGUEROA bacane e

personal friend al the present Pope, to the estent that the Pope became

God Father to one of the FIGUEROA children born in Italy. The two have

remained iriends throughout the years. J-315 plans to ask one Juan Antondo

RUBIO Fadilla, a friend of J-315 and relative of J- 315/13, to visit the.

Pope the sunner of 1969 and convey FIGURDA's personal request that the

aral

Pope contact tie GOG and personally Intercede for a possible pardon a

exile of the prisoners. RUBIO is one of the prominent leaders of Catholocis

in the world todey and Intimate friend of US FNU Fernandez, the Arch Bishop

of Cordoba in Spain. J-315 believes such an appeal bas an excallent chance

of success, The O/0 agreed that this was, a worthy effort and arrested

his wlah that it succand.

2408

3

1508:0E TEN CONARASI

BOUTON SCHALES

REGE A259

ỐC

FON

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOIPO

AUTH PARA 1:600 DOD 8200:1-R.

---

## Page 5

J-35 said he baldeved that the tot did not have much proaf of

any serious crime againat the prinoners or they would have exacuted them.

The fact that d315/12ts sister, Chuchs, and her husband had been prehed

up sad imprisoned in mid lovenbar for questioning indicated that the Goc

Irvestigation of 1-315/121s activitien had not produced too much. they

detaise

appranonded Oncha probably sinca she was his secretary at his clinic.

The 0/0 agreed that

things sere progresuing better than hoped and that

the town tease at that time to do braight us the ment

of the nond for termination of operations, and it dovetailed beatitully,

for J-315 had just said that he tras glad that he had not been Involved in

3-335/23*s overt political machinationa for the last four to fire montas.

The G/0 told the subject that he had ban directed to terinate the opera-

tions Involving J-315 and the entire operation in order to safeguard the

Ilves of the prisoners. Any continuance of intelligence operations

against the 000 would jeopardize thair livin If detected. However, the

G/0 dexired that ever though operations sere teminatad that -315 monitor

the status of the prisoners and kap the d/0's organisation informed. In

order to do this, the C/0 was providing I 315 with a P. D. Boz In the

Washington, I.O., ares so that he could tail periodical information con

carning the prisoners. The 6/D stated that he uns also providing I-315

with an «omance for siz monthst empansas so that 1-315 fould not beat the

cest if nonitoring the status af the prisonera alone. The C/0 said that be

had racamended the sun of 1125.00 per wonth which had baen approved by

his superiors, miditionally, he had recommended that Je315 be given two

manths! salary as severance pay. C/0 contimed, saying

thet he had beat

ratana ten fedan

24094

REGRADED UNGLASSIFIED

ON

442223

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOUPO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DOD 5200.1-R

---

## Page 6

alerted that be was to transfer out of the area as it happened ance befora

during their assoclation then Mario (P) had replaced him as: J-315%s

superTisor.

t. 3-315 did not react in an adverse manrer to the notice of termina

tion,

He agreed that sassation of operatione was very wise and that he

would keep the organisation informed by mail.. He did, though, earnestly

ask that although he was avere that operntions nare ended, that contact.

with the organization be contimed through the mail channel so that be

could keep the organzation Inforned in the future. He also asked that,.

if possible, he be permitted a telephone mmbar to call either in Mari

or in Washington, or elashere, where be could contact the organization

in the case of an energeny or man he had information on the prisoners

that needed to be delivered in a barry. The C/O stated that he would

relay his request to lio superiors and satise him via telephone to a

pay telephone booth as had bean done during the past three months. J-315

vishad the C/0 nell in his new assigment and hoped that they see each

athar some day agati.

He hoped that it he mre ovar imolved in other

work for the organization that he be placad in contact with a nature indivi

dual whom he could talk to with cunfidonce that he was dealing with an

experiended man, for although tario was a fire individual, obviously dedicated

and sincere, he had found that he could not commeate bis beltefs and Ideas

as well as he could with the present 0/J. G/D aaid that Mario had bean

Indeed en excellent individual to work ilth, but that sonetimes old battle-

maary roostera seen to work wall togother.;

5

2110

+ rests,

REGRADED UNCLASSIEED

ON OCT 1 8 1994

BY COR USANDSCAR ACUPO

AUTH PARA 1.S0S DoO 520c. j-21

---

## Page 7

...

Bie i-315 orestly asked that the organization consider assisting

him to abtain a pernit to carry a respon in Florida. He stadad he had

obtainad a permit in Paorto Rico, but that he bad so contacts in Miant.

to ascist him as he had in Puerto Rico. He was atrald that he night be

the object of an attempt by the G0o to annassinate him for his lovolva

ment with J 315/12. He cited the attempt on ex-Castro GAPT Oton PALAI

who was sbot 6 ar 7 tinas as l6 Novenber, and is in ortical contition in

Mazi, I-315 balieves that he is probably on their list for assaanination

and is ready to defend himself if necessary. He axpressed desp concern

of his bring aboard one of the hi-jacked planen becanse of his weekly

roundatilp between Man and sen fuen, Puerto Rico, He added that he za

attempt is ever made to bi-jack a place he 1e eboard, he would resist the

hi-jackers, for he feare if

he lands in Havana, he will be sumarily shot.

Fa does not plan to carry a pistol aboard the planes, for he le anare that

he may ba subject to seurch at any time, At present he fakes being lame

and carried e tane sboard, ilanfully hoping that he sould use that to over

power any possible hi-jacker. The C/O replied that ho wild cheth this

reqast out, obtaln an anver, whether favorable or unfavorable, and Inform

the source of whatever deciaion was reached.

COMMUNICATIONS:

The source wes givan P. 0, Box 9153, Mexandria, Virginia, My code

22304, inder the name of Joasph Conley, for his use to keep the organization

advised of the prisoners' status.

be 0/0 estabillabed the lollowing bone tides for possible future contect

With J-315-

Person contacting subject will say he in a friend of Rogelio

2411

6

RECRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON OCT 1:8 1994.

BY COR USAINGCOM FOIPO

AUTH PARA 1-603 DOD 5200.1-R

---

## Page 8

5E

GONZALEZ and

would like to get together and have sone oysters". At meting

they vill match two halwas of a tuben five paso note (see Incl #1).

b(iii)

COMMENTS :

0/0 recommends that consideration be given to a telaphone, possibly

in Paorto Rico, that the source may call in a bona fide emergency. One

other consideration night be that the source call former DAt luie Rodriguez,

7

2412

REGRADES UNGRATE

Or OCT 1 8 1994

BY COR USAINSCOM FOUPO

AUTH PARA 1 603 LOD 5206.1-R

---

## Page 9

a member of the lIth KI Croup, Miami: He is personally known to the

source as having been involved in intelligence operations in the Miami

aras, The O/0 is rosearching Illth's reaction to the establishment of

Nr. Rodriguez as a contact for subject for emergency use and will include

that ramlt as part of his termination raport and summary of the imprteon-

ment and status of tha prisoners. C/0 believes that we ahould monitor

their statas in the future and make every effort to Insure that J-325 and

his Ianily or J-315/23 take no steps to embarras the U.s. by any accusa

tiona and/or publicity. In arder to do thie it may bedone necessary in

the future to have sondone contact J-315 or his wife in order to permit

them to express their concern, fear or sorrow. This will at as a salety

valve and vill enatle t.s, to have advance. notice of any proposed acts on

their part which may be injurious to the U.s.d.

I Incl

Envelope contelring

boria fide (1 only to Hgs)

FRANE C. ALATORRE

Case Officor

2413

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON OCT 1 8 1994

T124770-16

BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO

AUTH PARA 1-903 DOD 5209.1-F

---

