# 194-10001-10392

## Page 1

Date :

09/23/98

Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: INSCOM/CSF

RECORD

NUMBER

: 194-10001-10352

RECORDS SERIES.

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: XE327040WJE • PAGE 126

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : LTC DOWNIE

TO

TITLE

: MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

DATE

: 07/30/62

PAGES

: I

SUBJECTS

: SLOBODA, VLADIMIR O.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAI DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

*: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

JFK biii)

DATE. OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA FOR RELEASE

COMMENTS: COORDINATION WITH THE CIA HAS

BEEN COMPLETED AND

DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE,

PER MEMO DTD: 15 DEC 95.

---

## Page 2

Lt CọI Downie/56074/mim

b(iii)

b(iii)

ACSI-SC

SUBJECT: SLOBODA, Vladimir O

MEMORANDOM FOR RECORD: (30 Jul 62)

1.i

BACKGROUND: CIA informal Memo CI/897, undated,

subj as above,

informed ACSI that Mrs. Lillian Sloboda, wife of SP-5 Vladinit Q. Sloboda,

defectee to the Soviets in Aug 60, has returned to London to reside wher

mother, Mrs. Sutcliffe, in Halifax, England.

Mrs. Sloboda is traveliing with

ker daughter; age three, while her otner

two children are still in Moscow.

is attempting to determine whether

Mrs. Sloboda has left USSR permanently or

whether she is in England on

a temporary visite

intends to interview her after she is settled, and

as reo any questions

the US would like answered.

BA G2347 made USAREUR

aware of Nirs. Sloboda's return to England and req any EET for passage to

Their answer was furnished in DA IN 220659,

12 Api 62, giving EEI considered of

primary security interest. EEI recd fr USAREUR was passed to CIA for transmittal

Req made that any info obtained by

would be of interest to this

office.

2, CURRENT: CIA ItI, subj as above, 23 Jul 62, informed this office

that requested replies fr

submitted for Mrs. Sloboda not

yet recd.

This office will be advised by CIA immediately upon teceipt of

any info fr

on the subj.

Ltr, subj as above, 30 Jul 62 fr this office

advised USARBUR of CIAs message.

3. COORDINATION: None required..

AO TIME: 1 hour

I TIME: ½ höur

TOTAL: 1½ hours

Act Of Bust

Sec Cl

Br Ch

Ch

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON 1:9904

BY COR WRAIN

AUTH RARE: i-G/% LOD 5200.1-F8

CIA HAS NO OSIEGION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEPSE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED MA

12/5/45.

i26

UNG

JENIAL

USACRE Tile Copy

ntorsos it

---

