# 194-10013-10448

## Page 1

Date : 04/14/98

Page

: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

NUMBER: 194-10013-10448

RECORDS

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF400026W - PAGES 265-269

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

TO

TITLE: SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

DATE

: 11/01/63

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS

: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

CUBAN OFFICER TRAINING PROGRAM

•DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B,

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS JFK biii)

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

---

## Page 2

C-2 FOURTM ARMY

JUNMARY OF INFORMATION

(SP 380 - 320-201

SECKLA

DATE

1965

PREPARING OFFICE

Region I. L12th Intelligence Corps Group,

San Antonio, Texas

SUBJECT

CODE FOR USE IN INDIVIDUAL PARAGRAPH EVALUATION

OF SOURCE:

OF INFORMATION:

Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

COMPLETELY RELIABLE

CONFIRMED BY OTHER SOURCES, I

USUALLY RELIABLE

NOT USUALLY RELIABLE

DOUBTFULLY TRUE

IRO ARE BE SANITA

15. Cli

During the month of June 1963,

Manolo Artime,

a leading political figure

refugees in Miami, Floride,

in the company of Sagundo Gorges,

Fort Benning, Ceorgia,

for the purpose of recruiting people to go to a revolutionary

in Nicaragua.

Juan M. Quintana-de la Torre, 2d LE, C2 312 405, Detachment 21,

2d Student Battalion (SB),

the Student Brigade,

US Army Infantry School,

Georgia, presently on Tempdrary Duty (TDY) with 3628th School Squadron (sSot Bean.

Detachment

21, 2d SB, presently

2d It. 82

312 432,, Detachment 21, 2d SB, presently on TDY with 3628th SS, LAFB; "Llayo (Enu)

and Source went to visit Artime in his motel in Columbus, Georgia.

inforned this group that the US Government was not going to do anything for Cuba and

that he (Artime) had obtained aid and instructors from Europe, Source opposed Artime's

statements and did not believe it, since they were in conflict with the aspirations

and plans of the US Govemment.

Source believes Artime succeeded in recruiting at

least two members of Detachment 21, Isidre 1. Montasino Acosta, 20 Lt. Ch 312 40-1 and

Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez, 2d It, C2 312 35l.

Montesino-Acosta and Acebo-Rodriguez rer

signed from the Cuban Training Program upon completion of the course at Fort Benning.

and their present whereabouts are unknown to Source.

SOURCE:

The above information was furnished

b(iii)

(F= 3)

The Officers of Detachment 21 commented among themselves that Manolo

came to Columbus, Georgia, Do recruit personnel from the Cuban Officer Training

Program to go to a camp

in Nicaragua,

Source did not know anything concerning any

officers who were planning to resign upon temination of the course of instruction,

(Source refused to

elaborate on this subject and it is the opinion of investigators

that he was withholding information)

SOURCE: The above information was furnished

b(iii)

(FD3)

In June 1963,

one Manolo Artime,

an anti-Castro leader, visited Fort

Benning,

the purpose of his visit was unknown to Source as he did not go to see

Artime and had no association with him,

Howevel,

Source was later informed that the

purpose of Artine's visit was

to recruit certain individuals from Detachment 21

a training camp in Nicaragua.

Source did not know who was present at the meeting

with Artime, but did learn later that several members of the Detachment agreed to

DISTRIBUTION

4 - DCSINTEL

1 - File

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITINE SOURCES AND METHODS REVOLVE

L0I A01

Mi3.

FORN

DA 1 DEC 51

158 Pares

* U,S. GOUERRKEHT PRINTING OFFICI

TATER

1963/52/35

2x-490-63 benet

---

## Page 3

SECRET.

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (U)

DATE: 1 November 1963

resign in order to go to Nicaragua immediately following the completion of che

course of instruction at Fort Benning which ended on 2 August 1963.

Source believes

the following individuals resigned due to the influence of Artime

and have joined

his camp: PedTo Acebo-Rodriguez, 2d Lt, C2 312 371; GeoIse M. Navarro-Rodriguez.

2d It, C2 5T2 KI; Jorge Lincoln Mas-Canosa,

C2 312 444; Luis de Jesus de

Lamar -Maza,

za, 20 Lt, C2 312 399; and Hector Antonio de Lamar-Maza,

2d Lit,

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b (iii)

(F-3)

(8) Source has heard of the existence of a group of officers in the Cuban

Officer

raining Program who are considering resigning from the Program in the near

future. At LAFB, there are a number who are waiting for the terination of their

English course to resign, while others plan to turn in their resignation after

arriving at a new station.

One of them is Rene F. Gomez-Figueroz, 2d Lt, C2 312

that the reason tor

their leaving is that they plan to trans-

er to Nice sea, or enochor overseas base, in order to continue deir fight epainst

Communist Cuba,

This group is in contact with Pedro Acebo-Rodriguez and Antoniu

talesias-Pons,, both of whom resigned from the Cuban Training Program upon completion

of the course at Fort Benning and who are in Nicaragua organizing anti-Castro regime

acrivities.

(This group consists mainly of men who fought in the Bay of Pigs in-

vasion of Cuba)

SOURCE: The above information wes furnished by

b(ili)

5.

There is a group within the Cuban Officer Training Program presently

undergoing training at LAFB who are planning to submit their resignations upon

completion of additional courses.

One of these individuals is Ladislao George

Fernandez-Martines, 2d It, C2 312 5925

The motive for presenting their resignations

Is to go to Nicaragua and organize an attempt to overthrow Castro.

This group is

in contact through correspondence with Peñro Acebo-Rodriguez and Antonio Eugenio

Igiesias-Pons, both of whom resigned the course while at Fort Benning in August

1963.

Fernandez is expecting to hear from Manolo Artine"in order to submit his

resignation in late November and go to Nicaragua.

Artime revealed to Fernandez

details about his conference with Charles de Gaulle of France and Conrad Adenauer

of Germany.

Artime showed documents and pictures to Fernandez corroborating his

conferences with de Gaulle

and Adenauer.

Artime told Fernandez that de Gaulle and

Adenauer have promised him help to establish a camp in Nicaragua for the purpose

of taking over Cuba.

Such help should start to be received by Artime after Novem-

to Federico Garcia-Geli. 2d It, C2 312 393, LAFB, explaining his reasons for

266

---

## Page 4

SEC

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program

DATE: 1 November 1965

resigning the program and requesting that the letter be circulated among the fel-

low officers of the class at LAFBa

The letter said that he (Muina) left the

course because many of the men who had applied for the various schools, such as

the Intelligence and the Armored Schools, were still at Fort Benning wasting time.

Also, Muina had applied for a demolition course and after he was placed on orders

to go

to the course, the orders were cancelled.

Muina did not like this and de-

cided

to get out.

Source, who knows Muina well, is certain that Muina is working

for or with Artime also.

Muina has indicated repeatedly to his friends and to

the officers undergoing the program that Cuba will not gain its liberty with the

assistance of the United States, but needs to look for help from another country.

Mina believes that the United States has decided to apply the principle of co

existence towards Cuba.

Muina also has stated that the United States Government

lacks the ability to understand the Latin American problens, and that he is going

to join Artime.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b(iii)

(F-3)

6.

Rene Faustino Gomez-Figueroa, 2d Lt, C2 312 397 and Nario Eloy

Jimenez

козо,

CZ 312. 439, who will graduate 3 December 1963, are conten-

plating resignation,

exact reasons unknown.

Of the officers who have resigned

with the intention of joining a group to defeat Castro, Source remembers Antonio

Iglesias-Pons who resigned recently.

Miranda-Hernandez has heard that Iglesias

is recruiting people in Miani to be taken to a camp in Nicaragua which is operated

2 32 30 A Tin To CoS Air he 1s Jesus Sine or olevel

to have gone to Nicaragua,

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

clan

b(ili)

TDY

with

(F= 3)

Diego Emiliano Borges-Torres, 2d Lt, Ch 312 451, Is attempting to

find out if the ultinate purpose of the Cuban Officer Traming Program is identical

to the program which is controlled by Manuel Artime to train people in Nicaragua.

Upon obtaining this infomation, Borges-Torres is going to inform Source.

If the

plan is the sane,

everyone in the program will immediately go to Nicaragua because

in Nicaragua the fight against Castro is more imminent

Help has been offered to

Artime by Somoza of Nicaragua and by de Gaulle of France, who apparently hes

offered the Isle of Martinique for the operations against Castro.

Manuel Artime

visited Columbus, Georgia, a few months ago and spoke to many Cuban officers and

tried to recruit them as instructors to go to the camp in Nicaragua, Source was

not present at any of the meetings with Artime.

247

---

## Page 5

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program (V)

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

DATE: 1 November 1963

b(iii)

(F~3)

8.

There is a group of officers within the Cuban Officers Treining

Program

at LAFB who contemplates submitting their resignations if the United

States has not done anything for the freedom of Cuba by December 1963. Many offi

cers have indicated their desire to resign in order to join Manuel Artime who is

supposedly organizing a training camp in Nicaragua.

Artime has some contacts

among the officers undergoing training at LAFB, and for a long time, these officers

have been undermining the present training program by spreading dissension among

their fellow officers.

These men also have developed a recruiting campaign to

supply Artine with qualified leaders for the Nicaraguan camp.

Artime's recruiters

at LAFB are: Diego Emiliano Borges-Torres, 2d Lt, C2 312 431: Ladislao George

Fernandez-Martinez, 2d Lt. C2 312 392:1

Conrado Caballero-Acosta, 2d Lt, C2 312 352.

Borges-Torres is the chief represen

tative of Arcime at tAFB.

He has made"several trips to Miami recently and has been

spending much money,

He also has an expensive apartment in San Antonio, Texas,

which he shares with Fernandez Martines.

Next in command in the above group is

Fernandez-Martinez.

Carrazana has stated to Source that he intends to submit his

resignation in Dacember 1963 to join Artime.

b(iii)

It 1s

being rumored that a Latin American country is going to buy planes from England

and make them available to Artime.

It is also rumored that contacts exist with

France, but Source does not know if they are with the Franch government or with

private enterprises.

The Somoza regime in Nicaragua has also

assistance

to Artime in the forthcoming operations against Connunist Cuba,

b(iii)

Source was told by one

Heriberto Villanil, a Cuban national, Private, undergoing English instruction also

at LAFD, that Luis

M. Fernandez-Barrios, Ensign, 672 450, has submitted his resig

nation in order to go to Nicaragua. In Sourcels opinion, Borges-Torres persuaded

Fernandez-Barrios to resign,

SOURCE: The above infornation was furished by

b(iii)

(F-3)

268

SEORET

---

## Page 6

SUBJECT: Cuban Officer Training Program

(U)

DATE: 1 November 1965

received

telephone call on or about

25 October 1963 from Antonio Iglesias-Pons,

currently in Miami, Florida.

The purpose of the call was ayparently to persuade

Blanco-Navarro to

resign from the Cuban Officer Training Program and join the

camp of Artime in Nicaragua.

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b(iii)

(F-3)

to the

Liaison. Officer, 3628th 55, LaFD, on 28 October 1963.

subnitied letters of resignation

SOURCE: The above information was furnished by

b (iii)

(B-3)

269

-..

---

