# 194-10003-10425

## Page 1

Date

Page

08/24/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER: 194-10003-10425

RECORDS SERIES : FOREIGN PERSONNEL AND ORGANIZATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC643175W - PAGES 113-114

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM

WILLIAM C. ARMS

TITLE : MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 01/23/63

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : VECIANA BLANCH, ANTONIO C

CONTACT REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : CAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAT

Release in Full

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : BEST COPY AVAILABLE. BEST COPY AVAILABLE.

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassinatior

Records Collection Act of 1992

AFN SC 2107 Not

Date 11/21 /-

---

## Page 2

CENT

THE

RECORD

23 Jaguany 1963

Londo: VECIANA Blanche

OSD, (using assumed names) met with Antonio

impose of the meetins we primariy to cather

organisationy Nm chened been confiscated

CLANK was gueried on the capabilities

cole in it, and what assistance

at Lon.

ANA

refugee, resident in Miami, and a

Second Front

profassion:

Fe is currently associated

of the repanoray as their orimary tind

treasurer, These two anti-castro.

one organizationy Axpha 66,

tie dvert

recruiting

organization, any

second Front of the Escarbrat.

the

Suben covere

nont lace.

tast

CHOr

48V8

did

CO0 D6T2

riari th c

stated

this organizat.

rations and est

of this

actrod

to hare

2E nông guerrilla

destroy

malat

troops, z

stratepie.

facilities

boes olé

ever

cooperatinz

or

joining

Win

thebe res

words, the

proud envisionstan arterhal

out side Cuban refugee action:

The group, as thay

dors not desire direct U.S. partioiration and nas

er than to overthrow Castro al lowny

e more democratic

VECTANA

stated that this was the

that

with ot hen relugee groups

and why the

not

desire

Because thear aims would be sucvorted to

calone s

(C)

elates that this group las vartour n

vary pases

En the Caribbean (he wonfd not be more spaotfic) = He datd that these basel:

are manned by mall rround of men with nilitary experienos. Cies, experience

An demolitions, radio, and boet operation, etc.. He identified Cutiercez

MENOYO as a military chiof. feistated they had assete in Suba, soul of

whom they could contactecy radio comminicavion.

Ke mentioned that they

meintain communication between an operations base, and Mian and puerto-deo

VICTANA stated they mintain "jeadourters" in San Juan, Mant, and New

York and plan te establish other offices in washaurten, Chicago and

Los Angeles to facilitate the raising of finds.

LABLE

113

DOVINGRADED AT 12 WEAR ALTERVALS

NOT AUTOARICALEY DECLASSIFIED

Dog bir 5909.10

---

## Page 3

det

1963

Bureau

auDr

and

about

equi, pi

Government

movement

Atch:

LA Desk

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

114

BEST COPY AVAILABLE

---

