# 194-10013-10343

## Page 1

Date : 01/27/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10343

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W - PAGES

1386

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

RICHTER, MARGARET

TO : ATKINSON, URSULA & STEVE

TITLE : LETTER

DATE

: 11/24/57

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS

: DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL

ATKINSON, STEVE

ATKINSON, URSULA

THANK YOU LETTER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER.

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

Released under th

ohn F. Kennedy Assassinati

Records Collection Act of 1992

4 50 3197/190 2

AKN

***

***

***

**

*W*

*I*

* T*

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

*I*

* *

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

* *

***

***

***

---

## Page 2

IAL

Annexure I to

BRIP/0/11/482

dated 7 Dec 57•

TYPED REPRODUCTION OF A LETTER WRITTEN TO Pte ATKINSON

by MARGARET RICHTER.

Richter Furrier, Inc.

Tailor and Furrier.

Repairing-Pressing-Dry Cleaning

Furs Repaired and Glazed

64-13 39th Avenue

WOODSIDE, L.I., N.Y.

Nov 24. 1957•

My Dear Ursula and Steve :

you remembering us.

Thank you so very much for your wedding picture, we do appreciate

Your little daughter must be a darling and I am sure you enjoy

her very much.

Please forgive my delay in writing to you both. I do hope we

may meet some time.

Our 2 boys are now 17 yrs and 21 yrs.

We sometimes wonder why

the years have to go by so quickly.

Our oldest son Paul is now overseas in the Army, and our youngest,

Carl will graduate from High School this coming Spring.

May I say to you Steve enjoy your little girl while she is young.

My very best wishes to you and your dear wife at this season of

the year.

Sincerely Yourg

Margaret Richter.

1386

---

