# 194-10010-10376

## Page 1

Date

Page

: 12/10/97

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

:194-10010-10376

: DOD - AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:XE327040E

- PAGES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO :

TITLE : OFFENSE REPORT

DATE

: 08/01/60

PAGES

SUBJECTS : SLOBODA, VLADIMIR

I RESTRICTED 1

OFFICIAL INTERROGATION

INTERIM REPORT

TESTIMONY HEARD

INVESTIGATIONAL FINDINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C, 2, REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED

IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING COMMENTA

COMMENTS

v USC 2107 Note

ate_ 11/3/1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIA

1

COrT 1

Intolligance Center at the

Police Seator IX FAILINGBOSTEL

Adainiatrative Distriat LÜNEBURG

(Hame of the folico Administration)

(Mane of the Office)

le Number: 23/27/20 No. 45/60

Phone Nos

Offence Report

Scene of the Offence:_

FGR

Lower Court:

SOLTAU

Date of Offence: JER-AUg 1960

Offence: Suspicion of stete endangering

Information

1000 of the West German Griminal Gode

hggrieved Party: PGR

Accused (Prepetrator and the parties

concerned):

3) Manfred WILLMANN

DOB: 14 March 2929

POB: MAGDEBURG

Address: no permanent residence

DOB:

POB:

Address:

Subject:

Value: (daneges).

Exhibits:.

Inclosures PANIC!

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED,

DOD DIR $200.10

(Stamp of receipt)

(office)

(Dete)

Search for Glues

has been carried out - hes not been carried

out.

Clues nave been found.

Clues have been secured and forwarded to the

Identification Office Criminal Police_

(Name and administrative position)

FALLINGBOSTEL

_ 1 August 1960

The following is notified:

The accused has eccording to his own state-

ment (pp. 3-6 of the file) cerriad out

activities endingering stete security since

Jan 1960 unt1l his arrest on 31 July 1960.

He made situation sketches from airfields

in the FGR, gethered details about the MS

cEmp "Cemp King" In OBERUSEL, and forward-

ed the material to the MIS in the SOZ.

503

KUBLENTAT

(signature)

Criminal First Sergeant

NTIAL

---

## Page 3

Translation

L INFIDENTIAL

2

Intelligence Center PALWINGBOSTEL

(office)

Identification card established. yes - no

Pingerprints taken.

yes - do

Journal No:

File No:

Photos taken

yes - do

Person recorded yes or no

In German Wanted Persons List - Arrests -

Residence checks - Published in Wanted

Persons Card Index yes or no

SOLTAU

- 31 July 1960

OFFICIAL INTERROGATION

There appears #*) the below nemed person

residing:

no permenent address

phone no:

and having been informed of the subject of the interrogation

and admonished to tell the truth, declares:

1. a) Lost name, also first rame,

a) WILLMANN

nicknane, stage nane, any change

of nane, also former lest name,

In case of wonen, maiden name

or name of former husband,

b) First neme (underline first name

used)

2. DOB and POB

b) Menfred (1)

14 March 1929 1n MAGDEBURG

Kreis (Administration District) MAGDEBURG

County Court District

MAGDEBURG

State

a).

Casual worker

ad)

Clerk

bb)

co)

None

3. = Occupation

es) trained

bb) actual occupation at present

cc) occupational position st the

time of offence

Here should be stated:

- whether businessman, assistant,

Independent craftsnan, helper,

b) Further should be stated:

b).

- If married wonen, husbands'

profession

- If publie servants, clerks of

local authorities,

Bundeswehr

354

members, address of their office

- If students, address of the Univ

and subject of study

- 11 beerer of Univ degrees (Dipl

Engr, Dr., ete.) when and at

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

which Univ received the diploma

DEST ASSIFICATION SCHEDUL

c) If unemployed, since when?

c) 30 June 1960

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

Translation

4. Income status

CONFIDENTIAL

b) durinesthe time of offence

a)

at present

b).

None

None

2

5.

Maritel status

single - sarried - widowed -

divorced - separated

b)

First and last name of spouse

in case of women give also

maiden name, or name of former

husband

c) Residence of the spouse

if different domiciles

d) Occupation of spouse

t.

b)

Number of children

Age of children

7. a)

Father, first and last name

Occupation and residence

b) Mother, first and miden nine

Occupation and residence

8L30 11 parents deceased

c)

Guardian*), caretaker#) or probation

officer, occupation and residenca

8. C1tizenship (also former if ery)

9.

Honorary offices

State, community or juristic body (jury

foremen, or jurist - connerciul judge and

arbitrator of labor and social problems -

guardianship or caretaking - probetion

officar or others)

10.

Identification papers

rassport, or other identification cards oi

vermits (nature, Issuing authority, nunber,

date of issue) as drivers license, peddler

license, legitination card, hunting and

fishing license, weapons permit, master's

and pilot's certificate, qualification

certificate according to Section 131,

Basic Low, Pension certificato, master

demolition certificate.

305

11.

Convictions

Security and rehabilitation measures

(conviction suspanded on good bebaviour -

parole granted) according to own stetement.

a) Married

b).

Charlotte HORBEL,

Sult, Theodor Körner Str 18

c)-.

d) Weltrees

Fritz HILLMANN, blacksmith

SUHL, Philosophenweg No 8

b)_

Charlotte SCHINDLER

Office worker, as under e

_ German

_ None

Identity card of the SOZ - IX

0082667 - Issued on 15 June 1956 by

the Peoples Police - Kreis Adminis-

tration in SUHL.

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

NF.CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

CONFIDENTIAL - 20-

LOWEr COUTt KEHL, MaY 60 for 1llegel

border crossings, I deys eustody.

Soviet Mil Tribunel BERLIN-LICHTEN-

BERG on 22 Jul 49, 25 yrs confine-

ment in labor saup for espionage &

kidnapping.

Released on 8 Jun 56

from BAUTZEN State Prison.

---

## Page 5

_CONFIDENTIAL

Io come to the Point:

ifter having reconsidered everything, I want to supplementary first.

statements.

After having been questioned by an American agency in BERLIN-MARIEN-

FELDE, I was flown to CBBlURSEL upon instruction from this office after

completing the preliminary hearing and there I came to the American camp,

"Camp King". There I was questioned again by more persons, some of which

were dressed in civilian clothes and some in uniform, concerning my knowledge

on geological drilling. After the questioning I was sent again to lager

nastatt (IN: C mp M/ST/TT) •

As far as I remember, I was given the mission to report to BERLIN as a

Soviet-zonal refugee and try to get to OBErURSEL. The mission was riven to

me on 2/1/60 by a member of the SSD in MElKERS, Kreis BID SALZUNGEN, whose

nane is Karl LuMBERI, about 45 years old, about 165 centimeters tall, stocky,

dark blund hair combed straight back with the hairline slightly receeding.

I was to try and find out the layout of "famp King", the merican and German

personnel present, and the methods of interrugation by the Americans, as ell

as the names of the persons to be interrogated. I was to inform the MfS

about my findings, for which purpose, I was to report again at a time of my

choosing to the nearest MIS office in BIST GENMANY.

I also did this according to instructions. For this task I didn't

receive any money or other compensation what-so-ever. U on orders from

the MfS, I gave up My work at the VEB-geolozical drilling and went to

where I reported to the refugee camp and declared that I had troubles with

the Mf'S in MERKERS and I fled from EAST GERM NY for this reason.

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED."

DOD DIR $200.10

CoME

---

## Page 6

-CONFIDENTIAL

At that time I had on my person a few hundred E ST marks. I was

sent to Cmp King just as I had been ordered. I was flown to FluNKPUld/M

with an imerican militery plane and then taken to Camp Kinge where my

interrogation took place. By way of Camp R/STAIT and WEINSBERG, I arrived

at SCHORNDORF, where I was officially registered at Neuenstr. 19, residing

with WIEDENFOLFER. There I worked with the firm of Bauknecht until the end

of June 1960.

lind of page

MCLUDE FROM CENERAL

DECLASSEFICATION SCHEDULE

307

CONIDENTA!

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

-2-

Since I had declared myself willing to report to the MIS after a certain

time, I quit my job and left SCHURNDOkE without formal no ice of departure.

I went as far as LUEBECK on the train and went across the border near SCHLUTUP.

passed over the border on an eveninge on a friday. in carly June 1960 in

the direction of East Germany. Then I reported to the Last German border

police, and the Mi'S from liViNUüHLiN picked me up with a car. There 1 wrote

up and presented a report about my observations during my stay in Br LiN

M/JIENFELDE, about, my flight to FR/NKFURI/M, and about Camp King. 1 also

mentioned the name of Karl LiMBEiN of MERKERS, from whom I had received this

mission. But we were not brought together. I stayed in GREVESMUEHLEN until

Sunday evening. In FREVESMUEHLEN I received from 4 members of the MfS, whose

names I don't know, the mission to go to wESt GoiM NY and to spy upon the lay-

outs of aiffields and other military objects in SOUTH GuNMiNY. I was to put

my observations into writing and send it to the cover address of "inni SCHULZE",

ChEVESMUEHLEN, Pestlagernd (IN: General Delivery). I received from on e of the

MfS people 200 DM West and then was taken to the border with a sedan. I then

passed over during the hours of darkness near SCHLUTUP in the direction of

West Germany. I took the train again from LUEBECK to MUNICH and further on to

FUEKSTENTELDBRUCK. I made no es about the airfields and sent these notes to

the given cover address by first class mail from MUNICH. I then travelled on

to KUlLN and there I made a sketck of the KOElN WHN airfield, which I also

sent by first class mail from KOELN to the cover address. Erom the fenced

in part of Camp King in OBaHUhSEL.

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATIQN SCHEDULE

30ê

EUNFIDENTIL

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

- 3-

Also in accordance with my orders I prepared sketches of the Camp King

(OBERURSEL) fence line, they wanted me to especially indicate the distance

from the fence to the temporary barracks. This sketch I mailed from FM. NKFURI/M

to the cover address I was given.

I must amend that for the trip from LUEBECK to MUNICH I received DM

75 (West in addition to DM 200 (West).

In the aforementioned cities I stayed for about 2 weeks altogether. By

the middle of June I left FRANKFUlT on a hitchhike trip all over the Federal

republic. Un this trip I cane through MUNICH, STUTIGARI, HANNOVER, and other

smaller towns the name of which I have forgotten. In H NNOVER I have been

last week. The reason for this sort of vagrancy has been a certan fear of

being apprehended by the west German police and the doubt of a successful

crossing of the Zone border. As a matter of fact, I had in mind to quit

working for the MfS and was not sure if I ought to return to the Zone. Even-

tually I came around to the conviction that giving myself up to the police

would be the best way to break with the past. When asked where my reception

certificate of the BIN-MARIENFELD Feception Camp was, I truthfully replied

that I had mailed the document to Karl LiMBEKI, an MiS agent, mail address

B D SALZUNGEN. This happened in May in UBENURSEL. I also inclosed the re-

ferral slip and the health certificate. I had been assigned the mission by

LIMBENT to mall him the originals of these papers and tha, is what I did.

While I have been in confinement in the BAUIZEN penitentary I signed a

peper for a State Security agent named KRUG, who has been employed as a wel-

fare conmissioner of the penitentiary, a paper, by which I was obligated to

prepare morale reports on my fellow inmates and on the attitude of the

policement towards the convicts. This I have carried out about 25 or 30 times.

3u?

CECRODED TROM GENCHAL

NECLASSTT

manson?!

---

## Page 9

CONFIDENTIAL

-4-

All the same, I have not been able to perceive any repercussions on

persons nentioned in my reports. I must add, though, that I have kept these

reports very general without accusing anybody specifically. KRUG, assigned

the cover name "Fritz Wallin" to me by which I used to sign my reports. From

time to time 1 received a pack of cigarettes for my work, but nothing else.

ifter my release I have been employed by the firm SIMSON in SUHL, and

again I contacted by an MfS agent by name of either NEUB UER or NEUGEBAUER.

He made me write reports on the production of Mopeds and on the difficulties

of their manufacture. For this work I received from NEUBAUER up to DM 100

(East) from time to time. gain I used to sign the reports with my cover

nane "Fritz WALlER".

Since Christmas 1958, I started living separately from my wife. 1

filed a divorce, because I am sure that I am not the father of her chila;

the case was dismissed though. Up to now I have no paid any support for

the child. However, my wife has taken my accident annuity and spent it for

her own purposes.

I believe I have told everything I know. I have given this information

voluntarily and told the truth.

I am not able to make further statements.

Personally read, approved, and signed. (s/ Manfred Willmann

Closed:

s/Kubbritat

Chief of the Criminal Dept.

370

...

i..

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 10

CONFIDENTIAL

Federal Criminal Department, Protective Imprisonment in

BD GODESBERG No: 35, dated 2 ugust 1900

TO :

1.) Intelligence Conter F LLINGBUSIEL

for information

2. State Criminal Police Office - See D in H NOVEN.

SUBJECT: Preliminary Investigation of Manfred WILLM N, born 14 Mar 29

in M. GDLBUKG

REFERENCE: Your IWX No: 9, dated 1 Aug 60, file No: 23.17.20

The Folice Departnent in BelLiN informed us with iwix No: 415, dated & June

1960, that the preliminary investigation of wiLIM NN was submitted from the

Public Frosecutor BELIN - 2 Pds 1046/60 - not to the Chief Federal prosecutor

at the Federal Court, but to the Public Frosecutor in KiKSiUlE. The procedure

should now depend upon the Public Prosecutor in BIDEN-B DIN under the file No:

3 Is 1166/60. WILLM NN was living at that time in the State Recept on Camp,

RST IT, Luetzowstr.

MfS member, Karl IMBLIT from BEZ_ K idministration SUHL, in the same

procedure was knon under the following description:

born appex 1915, 160 em tall, stocky, dark complexion, was before deputy

managor of Department Il of Bezirk Idministration SUHL, should now be em-

ployed with the Kreis Office BiD-SiLZUNGEN.

Member of the Ministry of State Security NEUGEB Ubk, fnu, Bezirk dmini-

stration, born apprx 1911, engaged in 1958 to Erich SAULFM/NN, korn 12 May

1915, and gave him missions.

From the information of a friendly intelligence service, here are known

the following MIS nembers:

12671

371

FOWEDENTIAL

---

## Page 11

CONFIDENTIAt

Paul NUB VE: from Bezirk aministration SUHL

and Faul KRUG from the Kreis Office BAULZEN

Description of NEUB UDA:

born apurx 1909/14, rank: lieutenant, apprx 173 tall, blond hair

Description of KNUG:

born apprx 1923/27, 166-173 tall, address E VIZUN, Paulistr, before

9253 lived in LEBAU, Bahnhofstr 8, MIS - Üfficer in prison BUZEN.

Federal Griminal Department - Protective Imprisunment - B-D GODESBELG

File i II 1651/60

for signed BikING,

Main

Criminal Commissioner

3,2

SONNIDENTIAL

---

## Page 12

CONFIDENTIAE

Intelligence Center in

Police Sector Landkreis FALLINGBOSTEL

Regierungsbezirk LUNEBURG

Eile # 23.17.20

FALLINGBOSTEL, & August 1960

Interim Report :

The accused, Manfred WILLMANN, born on 14 Mar 27, in MGDEBURG, without

permanent residence, was on 31 Jul 60, temporarily arrested by the police

station SULTAU, because of suspicion of the vagabondage and was taken the

same day before the district court in SOLTAU, which issued a warrant of

arrest.

An interrogation by an official of the police station SULL/U, WILLM NN

stated under other things, that he, while being imprisoned in the penitentiary

BUIZEN, where he was until the year 1956; upon being convicted of espionage

and kidnapping by a soviet military court, was an informer for the states se-

curity service, reporting the morale of his inmates.

For this reason, he was interrogated be the public prosecutor in BURLIN

and also in SCHORNDORF by the order of the public prosecu: or in BADEN-B: DEN.

fter the publication of the warrant of arrest by the district court in

SOLIU, WILIM NN was once again interrogated by an official of the intelli-

gence center in FALLINGBOSIEL.

During this interrogation WILIMANN now stated:

a) Un 2 Jan 60, he should have received an order from the MiS member Karl

L MBERT at the MIS office in BiD SLUNGEN, through transit - rosp. receiving

camp BERLIN-M RIENFELDE, to set out for the imerican caserne "Camp King", in

513

FENRIDENTIAL

---

## Page 13

CONFIDENTIAL

OBERURSEL and there to gather information about the situation of the camp,

the pursonnel of the camp, the methods of interrogation and data of the per-

sons to be interrogated.

b) The order accomplished and the knowledge gained given to the MfS in

GhEVESMUEHLiN/Soviet Zone, after he crossed the burder at SCHLUTUP in the

direct on East.

c) He should have received orders from four members of the MES in GiEVES-

MUELEN, to gather information of the location of airfields in South Germany

and further knowledge of the American caserne "Camp King" in UBERURSEL.

For this mission WILLMANN received from the MiS in GREVESMUHLEN a sum

200.00 DM (West and 75.00 DM (West) for travelling expenses.

d) The last named mission accomplished and has been reported through mail

to the cover address "Anni SCHULZE, GREVESMUEHLEN, Postlagernd".

During his stay in last Germany, WILLMANN has met or worked for the

following MIS members:

1) Karl IMBEKI, MIS B D SALZUNGEN, object MERKERS/RHOEN,

2) KRUG, Ist name likely: Paul, MES BAUTZEN,

3) NEUGEB: UER, MIS Bezirk office SUHL.

The Federal Criminal Police - Security Department - BAD GUDESBERG has

knowledge about the above mentioned information in 1 - 3.

Because of the cooperation with MfS BAUIZE during his imprisorment, the

proceedings are transferred from the public prosectuor BERLIN 2 PJs 1046/60

to the public prosecutor KARLSHUHE and are now processed by the public prose-

cutor BADEN-BADEN under file # 3 Ja 1166/60.

A warrant of arrest for WILIM NN in this case is not issued.

The public prosecutor in GOETTINGEN has a case against Heinz WILLMANN,

XCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

3, 4

ECh DENTIAL

---

## Page 14

-CONFIDENTIAL

apprx 32 years old, born in MIGDEBURG or vicinity, a preliminary investiga-

tion, file " 6 'Fi 150/58, a suspicion of false incrimination. In this file

Heinz WILLM NN is accused from a fellow prisoner of the penitentiary B UTZEN,

to be an informer for Peoples lolice Undercommisar MIdl and belonging to the

so-called "Red Circle", He is called "the worst informer".

Considering the situation "Heinz WILLM N" could be the same infred

WILLMANN, who was born in MGDIBURG and was in the penitentiary BUrZEN.

The files of the provisional reception camp BALIN, leg # 687651 shows,

that on 8 Jan 60, Manfred WILLM NN reported there as a refugee from Last

Germany. The reasons for his flight he gave as the difference with is,

for whom he has worked during his imprisonment in B UTZEN and also later.

The investigations board of the "Free Jurists", dated 21 Jan 60, writes

about WILLM NN, that from 1945-47 he was a member of SPD-SED. He was fron

1947 to 1949 in the west German together with his wife vorn in Poland. Dur-

ing a visit to his parents in M GDEBURG, he was arrested and sentenced by a

Soviet military court on espionage and kidnapping charges to 25 years labor

camp, which was reduced in the summer of 1955 to 9 years.

The Soviet military Iribunal had the opinion WILLl NN's wife, who he

taken with him to lest Germany, was a Soviet lussian, because hur father

was born in Soviet fussia.

On & June 56, WILIM NN was granted an amnesty and discharged from the

penitentiary.

In the penitentiary BAUTZEN he was employed as an informer

for the MfS members (welfare officer) under the cover name "Fritz WALTER" and

subnitted every 2 - 3 months reports of the prisoners' morale.

In the winter of 1956, he was visited again by the MfS member KUCIli

SECURE DOG TENEPAL

- no.

DECLASSLICATICN SCHEDULE

*CONADENTIAL

-...

---

## Page 15

CONFIDENTIAL

from SUHL, and he had to make reports about the worker of SIMON factory

VEB in SUHL.

It the last he had been a dispatcher with VEB Geological boring, object

MERKERS. There he made 12 - 15 reports about the technical cooperation and

the existing methods of work to the MfS member Karl WMBERT of the MfS

BAD SALZUNGEN.

according to the information of the Investigation Board of the "Free

Jurists", WILLMINN should have been working since 1953 as an informer for

the MIS and it must be assumed, that WILLMANN has not only reported to the

MfS of harmless things, but that his action has brought considerable damage

to other persons.

So DI. Med. Paul HOFFMINN, BERLIN-CH: RLOTTENBURG emannenstr stated

to the Board of Free Jurist, that WILLM NN was a messenger in the hospiial

house il of the penitentiary BAUTZEN, has many doctors denunciated and

robbed the inmates and showed himself as a 100% communist.

ccording to the report of police office in STUlTG Ni from 9 Dec 47 to

30 ug 48, WILIM NN was registered and lived in STUTTGRI, Seidenstr 36.

During the time of his residence in STUTTGAlI, nothing is discrimitory

known about him.

He stated by himself, that he, until the spring 1949, had worked with

a family HOLZMANN in STUTTGANT.

Then he was working with a GSO unit (German Service (rganization) in

F: SSBERG, Kreis CELLE. ifter a radio set and clothing was stolen: by him

from a fellow worker, he went over to the Soviet Zone.

The files of this theft are in the office of the public prosecuor

LUENEBUKG, branch office CELLE, file #2 Js 2948/49 and i Js 11/141/50.

3,0

Hansemit

---

## Page 16

CONFIDENTIAL

According to the law of penal freedom, the procedure was stopped.

WILLMANN is now in arrest, with warrant of arrest from the District

Court of SOLIAU, according to paragraph 8, Law 244/60 because of vagabond-

age and suspicion of committing crime according to par 92 and 74 of the Penal

Code. The next examination of the arrest is presumably on 24 ug 60.

He has no steady residence, was picked up at SOLIU and there is an

urgent suspicion that WILLM NN, in opposite to his statements, wants again

to depart to East Germany. Therefore it is requested to preserve and con-

tinue the warrant of arrest.

Further investigation

is still in progress.

/s/ illegible

Criminal - Hauptmeister

5,7

1E4F4E

---

## Page 17

CONFIDENTIAL

Now at LUENEBURG, IN Aug 1960.

Intelligence Office

FALLINGBOSTEL

Testimony heard:

Manfred WILLMINN, visited in jail where he was held pending trial

in LUENBUlG, his personal description having been recorded, on keing

questioned; further declared

concerning himself:

My father is Fritz WILLMINN, born 14 Dec 1899 in MAGDEBUNG. His trade

is a smith and he has been employed for the last few years as salaried

chairman of the SUHL, Bezirk of the GUSF (German-Soviet Friendship Society).

Residence - see page 13.

My mother's name is Charlotte nee SCHINDLE, born 18 Jan 1908 in BANLIEU

ST M FIN/ METZ and in a bookkeeper, now employed in the House of Culture in

SUHi, as of 7 Uct. She is a section chief there.

I am the oldest son and went to elementary school in MiGDEBUFG and then

the BERTHOLD OTTO School to the l2th class.

I didn't graduate as I got into trouble with my parents because of ulga

Leoni PLOTNIKON, a stateless foreigner, with whom I had an affair.

I brought Miss PLOTNIKOW to West Germany in the summer of 1947 on her

own wish. She stayed first in FEGENSBUG and later in STUTTG Ri. Then I

lost track of her and do not know where she is today.

fter coming to West Germany in 1947 I stayed here. I registered with

the police in December 1947 in STUTTGAT, Seidenstr 36, and worked as a

laborer for the Philipp HOLZM NN, a building firm in STUTTGARI. I was not

registered with the police from the time of my first border crossing until

578

95"

SOMHDENTIA

---

## Page 18

CONFIDENTIAL

December 1947 but on the contrary I had returned to East Germany to get

my effects and I also visited my old school chum Helmut SCHENKE, WIESB DEN.

After August 1948, I was twice at my parents on an interzonsl passport

and then I started working with a GSU unit in FASSBERG as a laborer. 1

worked there until thi sunmer of 1949. I was registered in UNTERLESS

as I was uprooting s umps for & company in UNIÜhLUESs before Joining the

GSO.

In UNIENLUESS I stole a radio set and sonu garments from a colleague

and sold them in the UKRAINI N Camp. Then I made for the Soviet Zone and

was arrested in the station at MiGDEBUiG.

I must further say, tha: I worked several months in the Finance

Office in WOLMIRSTEDT as a clerk after luaving school. This was befor

I went to West Germany with Miss PLOTNIKOW.

is I already staied, I was sentenced to 25 years in a labor camp

by a soviet military court.

I have another brother called Fritz-Wilhelm WILLMANN, born 25 Dec

1938 in MiGDEBURG.

He is a graduate of SUHl and then went to the officers' school in

PRENZL U and later in PLAULN. He is probably an iG. officer today. i

have no other brothers or sisters.

I have an uncle in West Germany called Wilhelm SCHINDLih, builder by

trade, living In DUESSELDOF, Bastion or Bastienstr 2. I have not seen him

since 1947 or 1948. nother uncle, named walter WiLLM NN is living in

H/ MBUIG-FUHLSBUETTEL, Hummelscuetteler Landstr. 100. He is a salesman

by profession.

My parents live in SUHL, Philosophenweg & in the Soviet Zone. (ther

5,9

---

## Page 19

CONFIDENTIAL

paternal relatives live in MAGDEBUNG.

Ifter my hop from BErLIN to OBbRURSEL, and after being released from

that camp, I crossed the kHINE at KEHL. I was arrested by the French there,

who, wanted to take me into the Foreign Legion. Finally I was turned back

to Kill and got a sentence of 14 days for illegal border crossing from the

district court in Kili. I in ended to get a job in Frence.

Concerning the case:

My testimony of 31 July 1960 was read out to me.

It is correct through-

out and I give it today in the very same form.

I can make no accurate statement concerning the location of the MfS

building in GIWVESMUEHLEN and I want to try to make a drawing of it from

memory. Cnnot give the names of the four MfS men of the GREVESMUEHLEN

MiS. They did show me their papers, but I d.d not read the names, and would

not have remembered them either.

Early in the morning of the Saturday I was taken away by an MfS man

in civilian clothes. We got in GREVESMUEHLEN toward 0300 hours. While the

Mf'S man went into the MiS building to phone MERKERS about LiMBEFT I waited

in the auto with the driver who also wore mufti. Then I was lodged in a

house not directly across the street. This house did not seem to have a

tenant. It was not in the M'S office that I was lodged.

That Sacurday I was interrogated by three o her MIS men and i wrote

my report.

I was even writing the report Sunday. I ate in th house where I lived;

I was not in the town in GREVESMUEHLEN and so cannot, tell anything about.

local features.

560

CONDENTIAL

---

## Page 20

CONFIDENTIAL

Description of the MfS men:

First fellow: ikout 42 years old, about 172 - 175 em tall, slim, brown

hair combed back without a part, spoke high Gurman without

an accent, wore a dark grey leather overcoat, bresches und

boots. He was the spokesman and, assumedly, the others chief.

Second Fellow: About 45 years old, about 175 em tall, slight kuild, sunken

cheeks, pale, straight blond hair, spoke the dialect of

RUSTUck, was a chain-smoker. Tha jundy evening ho wore

& lst Lieutenant's uniforn of the Border Police.

Third Ftllow: About 28 years old, some 150 cn tall, robust build, brown

wavy hair conbed back. He spoke the Saxon dialect and wore

the uniform of a junior lieutenant uf the Border folice.

Fourth Person: Starting his thirties, about 105 - 168 cm tall, somewhat

stocky. He spoke high verman, snoked a pipe and wore a

sports jacket and dark pants.

The MfS in GROVLSMUDHLeN vas especially interested in Camp King in

UBERURSEL and gave me the mission of going there again and to get very

accurate data as to the location of all buildings. They were interested

in the distance of the various buildings from the funce and what was in

the different buildings. i presented my observations very much as i did

today in the quest oning - maybe even more exactly and beuter.

The MIS was interested in security measures at the FUELSTENFELDE UOK

air base and additional pricauvions fur th. occasion uf the sup osudly

coming internat onal air meut. i myself knew no hing

of the internst.onel

air meet. In this instance 1 did not make a report,

but told the NfS whst

XCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

---

## Page 21

CONFIDENTIAL

sort of fencing was there, which was what they mainly wanted to know. I

used the cover address:

nni SChUlze, GiLVaSsUarleN, rostlagernd (Ia:

General Delivery). I mailed the lotter in a let.urbox in MUNICH.

The Mfs wanted to know what I had son nd observed of oir traffic

at the KOLHi - wiN airport.

i was to repors on the frequency of flights

at phalik In airport. They wore interesad in h military traffic et

the GiAM IN FB in relation to the commercial sirport of KOSHLiW HN.

I am of the opinion that the las in nissions wore nui so importint,

for the Mfs laid stress on reports on C MP KING near GBU. USEL.

LUDED TOO GENERAT

NECLASSIFICATION SCILDPIRE

552

ZOARDENHAI.

---

## Page 22

-CONFIDENTIAL

I sent the reports on the COLOGNE-WAHN airport from COLOGNE to the

above mentioned cover address.

Similarly, those on the RHEIN MIN AFB I mailed from FANKFUKI/Main.

In all, I mailed three reports for the MIS to the cover address. I

would like to make a correction - the report from UBERURSEL made four in

all, I mailed the last report from FRANKFURI/Main.

I will describe the MfS men who I encountered during my imprisonment

in BAUTZEN and later:

1/ NEUGEB UBR, Paul, agent for the VEB-SIMSON, SUHL 2, some 180 em tall,

corpulent, some 110 kg in weight, about 45 years old, brown hair, heavy

drinker, very likely had once been a laborer. I had to write reports

on morale among the working people for him.

2/

KRUG, Paul, about 172 em tall, about 38 years old, brown hair, slim,

obliquely vertical scar some 10 cm long on his forehead (dent). He

put me under obligation to work in BUTZEN Prison and gave me the

cover name "Fritz w LIER", under which I subsequently made reports

on prisoners and officials of the institution.

3/

KOZIOL, Hubert, about 40 years old, some 170 em tall, light brown hair

and streaked, presumable a Silesian, in the SUHL MfS office, prior to

that ILMENAU MIS. KOZIOL took me into the VEB-SIMSON. He is, presum-

ably, the chief agent covering the ViB's in Bezirk SUHL.

1 do not know a MfS man called NEUB UER. It is probably the NEUGEB/UblI

I know that is meant.

4/ L MBERT, Karl, BID S LUNGEN Kreis Office of the MfS, whose description

1s in the record of my questioning of 31 July 1960.

505

122A000 TON SCHDOUT8

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 23

CONFIDENTIAL

I have already been interrogated in BERLIN and in F. STATT concerning

my collaboration with the MfS in BUTZEN, SUHL and BAD SALZUNGEN. Of

this collaboration I can only say in general that that I gave reports

prescribed on the conduct of prison guards toward prisoners and general

reports on the morale of prisoners.

The reports on the VEE-SIMSON in SUHL

and the VEB Geologische Gohrungen (IN: geological drillings) in the MERKERS

Inscallation dealt with troubles in the operations of the plants. No single

individuals were named in these reports.

The ex-convict Wladimir SHEP: NENKO, alias Fritz B/IER had something

to do with the operations section of the Peoples P. lice and the Fussian

liaison officer during his imprisonment. I do not know if he was a colla-

borator with the MIS. During my stay in SCHURNDUKF I read in a newspaper

probably a paper for the repatriated, that SHEPANENKO had been arrested in

BERLIN and that people who were with hin in B/UTZEN are being sought.

SHEP NENKO very likely knew of my collaboration with the operations section

of the VP and I thought that I would be sought in West Germany. Therefore

I quit my job with B/UKNECHI's in SCHOFNDUKF and tried to get back to East

Germany. In the SOLIAU region I had an agonizing reappraisal of the matter

and decided to turn myself into the West German police and to admit to working

for the MfS. I therefore phoned the police from an lutobahn phone booth and

turned myself in. First I gave statements on those matters that were already

known, both at the prison in BERLIN and that in B DEN-B DEN. Later I decided

to talk in the matter of my MIS missions concerning conditions in West Germany

which I have just done. I have told everything and have not held back anything.

5U4

CONFIDENTIAI

---

## Page 24

CONFIDENTIAL

I ask for leniency. Nothing follows:

(signed) Manfred Willmann

Fiend by me and signed (signed) KUBBRITAI

Chief Detective

385:

CONNECTAt

---

## Page 25

CONFIDENTIAL

18

Taken Iron the origina)

PETERSEN, Kn

FALLINGBOSTEL 15/8/60

Sketch of GREVPSMUKHLEN With the Market Place and Mis

building (TN: Miniatry for Security Building)

(TN:

Peoples Police Kreis Office)

VPKA

Market

PLaCe

Made from me

Signed:

12/8/60

386

DEV/NGRADET) AT IT YEAR INTERYAIS:

NOT AUTOM TICALLY DECLASSIFIED

AADR M00

33

---

## Page 26

Taken from the original

PETERSEN, KI

PALLINGBOSTEL, 15/8/60

12/8/60

a memory

Signed: W111mann

Street.

CAR

Vehicle Parking

Aron

Canteen

offico

Interrogation Premises

Officor

Housing

Area

ofe

92 a

Church

Radio Station

Interrogation Office

Enlisted Personnel - Unknown

GROUP 3

Downgraded at 12 year

interyals; not

automatically declassified.

us quarters

Gua rd

380

387

DIRECTION OBERURSEL = BAD HOMBURGEONFIDEN

19

Wire Yesh

about 2:

meters

---

## Page 27

CONFIDENTIAL

F LLINGBOSTEL 15/8/60

Intelligence Office

FALLINGBOSTEL

Investigational Findinge

The accused Manfred WILLM N was additionally questioned while in pre-

trial confinement at the LUENBURG Prison in regard to his statements from

31 July 1960.

He admitted his criminal activity again to the prejudice of the Federal

Republic and as much as could be remembered by him, also a personal descrip-

tion of the MiS members, with whom he came in contact during this activity.

Upon being asked he also prepared a sketch one each of the imerican Camp

"Camp King" in OBERUFSEL and the location of MIS building in GREVESMUEHLEN,

which were made part of the file.

questions about a lega proceeding against a Heinz WILLM NN according

to file G.R 150/58 of the Public Frosecutors Office of GOETTINGEN with re-

gard to suspicious of offense according to par 214a of the Penal Code. Will

MINN declared that he did not know a Heinz WILLM NN, however he had been able

to get to know almost all of the people mentioned in the proceedings during

the time he was in confinement in B UTZEN.

The Attorney General of the Provincial Court in GETTINGEN has been

informed of the proceedings in process against Manfred WILLM NN and attached

to the file a photograph of Manfred WILLMANN for purposes of identification.

During the repcated interrogation on 12/8/60 WILLM NN did not give

any additional, as yet unknown data about his criminal activity and struck

to statement already made during the 31 Jul 60 interrogation. No further

DOWNCRADIT AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY LXECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR $300.10

CONFIDENTIAE

388

---

## Page 28

CONFIDENTIAL

information could be obtained from him. He made his statements with com-

plete self assurance, which is indicative of good memory respectively good

training in relation to his answers.

Regarding his activity to the prejudice of the merican Camp "Camp

King" in OBLRURSEL it would have to be checked to what extent he hail com-

mitted an offence against the provisions of innex "j" to the Armed Forces

¡grement.

Further knowledge about the criminal activity of WILLM NN cannot be

obtained here.

signature/illegable

Criminal lst

Sgt

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

389

FOR DENTIAL

---

## Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

Contents:

Photographs of the clerk.

Manfred WILLM NN

born 14/3/29 in M GDEBUG,

legal procedings according to 100e of the Penal Code

by the torney General of the Provincial Court CELLE

filed under P 0 Js 84/60

in the Police Sector Landkreis FALLINGBUSTEL

REGIERUNGS BEZIRK LUENEBURG

Filed under: 23.17.20 No: 45/60

*ACLUDEN FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

390

CONFDENTIAL

---

## Page 30

CONFIDENTIAL

22

Intelligence Uffice

In the Police Section

Landkreis F LLINGBUSTDL

regierungsbezirk LUENEBURG

I LLINGBUSIEL 16/8/1960

Filed under: 23.17.20 No 45/60

remarks:

The documents were sent to the Attorney General of the Provincial

Court CELlE on 15 Lugust 1960.

Distribution:

NdI - IPV - H. NNOVER

IKP

-D

- H NNOVER

BNST

- LUENDBURG

NST

- F LLINGBUSTEL

signa ure/illegable

Criminal lst Sgt

Official stamp:

The Regional President LUaNzBURG

I PN (60)

Date processed: 18

ug 1960

Filed under: 23.17.20

No: 1364/60

Chief/Assistant/

8.70

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED,

DOD DIR 5200.10

....391

TONADET

---

## Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

Pages

23 and 24 are photographs

DOWNCRADED AT 12 YEAR INTIRVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED,

DOD DIR $200.10

392

---

## Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL

TRANSLATION

To the Criminal Police, Land HESSE, in WIESBADEN

The examining judge of the Superior Land

Court CELLE, of the HANNOVER Land Court

20 AR 40/60

HANNOVER, & September 1960

President of Land Court, THUELKE, as judge

Ministry of Justice clerk, MATTHIES

as Official in Charge of Documents

in the hella any inquiry

the accused WILMANN brought forward.

The accused was inforned of which criminal acts he was to be charged

witt, in accordance with the decree of 23 August 1960 concerning the opening

of the preliminary inquiry.

he was then advised that he had the opportunity to appear before the

examining judge to present his case.

Upon being questioned he stated:

I am ready to testify.

Particulars, as on page 4, column 4 of the enclosures.

Concerning his life history the accused made the following statements:

On 14 March 1929, in MAGDEBUFG, I was born to Fritz WILLMANN, at that

time a publisher, and his wife Charlotte WILLMANN, nee SCHINDLER. I was

raised in MAGDEBURG, attended grammar school there from 1935 to 1939, and

after that, high school until 1947.

I did not graduate. With the approval

of my parents, I left schoul during the 12th grade of high school. The

reason for this was difficulties because of my relationship with a foreign

woman named lge Leoni PLOTNIKUW. Since Fall 1945, after being bombed out,

395

2

---

## Page 33

-CONFIDENTIAL

I lived with my parents in WOLLMERSTEDT. From 1933 my father manufactured

typewriter ribbons, this was after his publishing house was shut down by

the Advertising Council of the Ministry of Economics. After the collapse

he was active in public offices. Among other positions, he was Bezirk

Director of DEWAG, Kreis Counsellor for Public Education Matters, and is now,

full time, on the Board of Directors of the Association for German-Soviet

friendship in bezirk SUiL.

I was raised in a well ordered home and have a brother ten years younger

than 1. He started a career as an officer in the East German Army, and pos-

sible has already become an officer.

After leaving school I went to work in the WOLMIRSTEDT (Ed. Note:

possible error-for "WOLLMERSTEDT", Finance office as an administrative

clerk.

in the Fall of 1947, I, with my girl friend, emigrated to West Germany,

My girl friend asked me to take her there. We were together in the REGENSBUHG

area. However, we separated later, after December 1947. I found a jot as

a construction worker with the Phillip Hi lzmann Company.

My girl friend Olga PLOTNIKOH, is the daughter of a fussian, as far

as I can tell; she was born in POLAND, had a P lish passport, and on her

mother's side, was of German descent. In accordance with Soviet law, she

was regarded as a Soviet citizen, as I was told later during my subsequent

pre-trial imprisonment. Our emigration to the west, at least on my side,

was purely for personal reasons. I could not judge whether or not my girl

friend really had other reasons or not. She had been temporarily employed

by the hed Army. Her fate is not known to me.

Around the Winter of 1948, as a Laborer, I entered a German Service

394

3

---

## Page 34

CONFIDENTIAL

Organization unit which was stationed in FASSBERG. A short while before go-

ing in, I had worked for a company in UNTERLUESS, blasting stumps. During

my work for the GSO unit I was employed at the control tower of the FASSBERG

Airport. I was quartered in the GSO unit's official quarters, and at the

sane time, bowever, I was registered with the UNTERLUESS police, where I

still had a room.

My entry in the GSO unit took place at the order of the MB, the fussian

Intelligence Services. Un the occasion of a visit to East Germany, made nor-

mally with an interzonal pass, I was aceosted by a Russian officer of the

Headquarters whom I already knew, and finally pledged to cooperated by a fus-

sian civilian, apparently an MGB member. I was required to sign a pledge of

cooperation and given specific missions. This happened in the Fall of 1948.

For this reason, I gave up my job in STUTTGAkI and went into the GSO unit.

I made several written reports of my discoveries at the FASSBERG Airport,

furthermore, I was in East Germany several times and rendered verbal reports.

My reports were taken down by the MiB agents. I was then required to sign

the document.

When I gave the verbal reports, I clearly saw that the MGB had another

Source who was better informed of conditions at the FASSBERG nirport than I.

The hussians were more interested in the air lift being conducted at that time.

it the control point I had a close-up view of the types of aircraft being used

and the frequency of take-offs. I also reported on the locality of the air-

port; however, I was of the opinion that that was of no significance. Once,

when I had to prepare a terrain sketch of the airport, I forgot to indicate

395

DOMININA

---

## Page 35

CONFIDENTIAL

two fuel dumps. It was immediately pointed out that the two fuel dumps

were missing from my drawing.

As ordered, I left for East Germany in the Summer of 1945. I was to

get a new mission. In order to cover my leaving, I committed the burglary

which is already a matter of record. It is clear to me that this larceny

is already disposed of, since it feel under the impunity law.

when I reported in MiGDEBURG to the MGb in the Headquarters as ordered,

I was, in the course of several discussions, made familiar with my new task.

I was supposed-with false papers and using another name-to be taken on in

an American agency in South Germany and report from there. I dd not yet

knov the exact mission. From the beginning I stated that I didn't want to

fulfill this mission, that it was too dangerous fur me. Sometime kefore I

had read a newspaper report which stated that an imerican military court had

sentenced two Czechs, as

I remember it, to twenty years' imprisonment, even

though they had taken completely unimportant photos of a military airport.

In spite of all persuasion, I was steadfast in my refusal. By now the MGB

members had reversed themselves. They explained to me that I would have to

answer to a Soviet military tribunal for espionage in favor of the west and

for kidnapping & fussian citizen (female). They gave me three days to think

it over. I still refused, since I couldn't think of simply accepting the mis-

sion and then going over to the west. I regarded my possible position in the

west as more difficult than the proceeding of the Soviet military court.

ifter my final refusal, I was turned over to the interrogations offi-

cials, placed in confinement in BEILIN HCHENSCHCENHAUSEN, and finally, in

December 1949, was sentenced to 25 years in a labor camp by a Soviet military

396

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

tribunal in BERLIN-LICHTENBERG. The grounds for my conviction were, frist, the

circumstances under which I had taken my girl friend to the west, and secondly,

Western papers of the GSU unit were found in my possession. I insisted that

these papers had been got out under orders. However, the military tribunal

did not agree. The penalty pronouncement against me was about normal. In

those days it was probatle that the sentence would not be fully served.

Concerning his stay in the BAUTZEN Prison, the accused made the same

statements he made during a police interrogation on 1l February 1960, from

sheet 1, columns 69 to 70 of the enclosure, so far as the parenthesis in

red.

This part of the police statement, after being re-read, was certified

to be correct.

Under advisement he stated:

I have a good conscience regarding my activity in the prison. I caused

injury to none of my fellow prisoners. The charges raised against me, which

had already been brought against me in BERLIN, are not true. If I had had

a bad conscience in this matter, I would have not come to West Germany.

The statements of the witness, KRUEHL, (Sheet 77 of the enclosure) have

already been disclosed to me by the police. I can only maintain, that the

connections asserted by the witness are not really true. I know that a physi-

cian has stated that I was engaged in pilfering from inmatates of the prison.

This statement is true. I, in my function as "floor elder", was called on

to do such things. I did not know how I could withdraw. The pilfering was

never doen at my own desire, but always upon orders of the prison leaders.

397

6

---

## Page 37

CONFIDENTIAL

I did not hit any doctors. I request the doctor in question, and all the

other doctors who have fled to the west, who, I believe, must be known in

BERLIN, to be questioned, if necessary, concerning my statement, I am con-

vinced that the suspicion will be found to be unfounded.

Concerning his personal actions after being released from prison, and

his employment by the MfS during this period, the accused made the same state-

ments as in his police interrogation on Sheet 70, columns 70-71, as far as

the written-in parenthesis, with, however, the following corrections and

additions:

I have maintained my residence in SUHL. I did not move to MERKERS.

I was taken there by the police because that is where I worked. I married

my wife in SUHL on 29 uctober 1957. We separated on Christmas 1958. Ester,

the child is in a children's home. I point out that I have not acknowledged

the legitimacy of this child. My appeal has been unsuccessful. I had no

opportunity to name the actual father.

Then, at the end of December 1959, I received the mission to the West

from the MfS. I have already made statements concerning this to the police.

I intended, purely for private reasons, to go tu PRAGUE for the New Year's

holidays. I then got the call that I should be ready for a job. Therefore,

I did not carry through my travel plans. I had to stay at home, and then,

on 2 January 1960, as 1 remember it, 1 started out for BERLIN.

The accused then made the same statements as in his police interro-

gation on 31 July 1960, Sheet 19 of the Enclosures, as far as the written-

in parenthesis.

After being re-read this part of the police statement was

certified as correct.

398

7

---

## Page 38

CONFIDENTIAL

Under advisement the accused stated:

I do not wish to make any further statements concerning my directed mis-

sion in UBERURSEL. I know that an influential man from Camp King has gone

to the Soviet Union. I fear reprisals if I make further statements.

I remained at Camp King for about 15 days. There I received free board

and lodging and DM 10 per day. From my controller I received some material

(photographs dealing with a carbon dioxide drilling) which I was to deliver

to an imerican intelligence collection agency. It Camp King I was not pledged

by the imericans, or any other intelligence service.

On this point the accused made the same statements as on Sheet 19, last

paragraph to Sheet 20, as far as the written-in parenthesis, the statement,

sheet 44 of the enclosure, up to the parenthesis in red, and sheet 45 up

to the parenthesis in red. Ifter reading this portion, the accused certi-

fied it to be correct.

He then stated:

My further statements concerning the rendering of reports to the MIS .

in GhEVESMUBHLEN are not completely correct. Despite censure on this point

I do not want tr make further statements; that is because I am afraid to give

away any details of my mission in OBERURSEL.

Also, to the question of whether or not I contacted the MIS GREVES-

MUEHLEN, I want to withhold statement.

To Interrogation:

I have already made several reports from Camp King. For this purpose,

I used the following as a cover address: "inni SCHULZE, GREVESMEHLEN, Post

Lagernd" (IN: i.e., general delivery). Concerning the contents of my report,

399

&ICLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFIGATION SCHEDTI

CONTASIKE

---

## Page 39

CONFIDENTIAL

I wish to make no other statements than those in the police staterent. /1s0,

concerning my oral reports I do not wish to say any more, for the reasons

already given.

I then got my new mission from the MfS in GREVESMUHLEN.

in this point the accused made the same statements as on Sheet 45 of the

enclosure, as far as the written-in parenthesis. These were re-read and the

accused made the following statements concerning this:

on this point I am also unable to make further statements concerning

my directed mission in UBERUESEL. The jobs in FUERSTENFELDBRUCK and KOELN

WIN, I believe, were assigned only as a cover, the real important point of

my activity was in OBERURSEL. Even when the missions were assigned to me I

pointed out that I had this impression. They just shrugged their shoulders

and insisted on these missions in FUERSTENFELDBRUCK and KOELN-WAHN, which I

believed to be completely unimportant, therefore, I was forced to carry them

out too.

These statenents are correct. I withhold, for the reasons given, state-

ments concerning the contents of my reports from OBEHURSEL. By the way, 1

would like to remark that of course I did not write my reports from Camp

King, but posted them in FRANKFURT/MAIN.

Under advisement concerning the police statements Sheet 20 and 21 of

the enclosures, as far as the red parenthesis:

My police statements are correct as stated. They have just been read

to me again. I know that they may be used in court proceedings. Upon

interrogation:

TO CARICATION SOON TR

400

9

---

## Page 40

CONFIDENTIAL

Around 8 or 9 July 1960, I was in OBERURSEL carrying out my mission.

I have reported about the conduct of this mission, however, as planned, I

did not return to GREVESMUEHLEN; instead, I decided once and for all to

blow, late in July 1960. I do not wish to make any statement concerning

what I did in July until I turned myself in. I did nothing else in the

intelligence field. My statements that I was wandering indiscriminately

and practically living like a tramp are not true. I retract these statenents.

However, for personal reaone, I do not wish to say what I did during this

period.

Under advisement:

It is really a personal reason that induces me to be silent on this

point. I assure you that there are no intelligence reasons.

ifter a certain period, 1 turned myself in at a German agency, because

I had already definitely decided to take part in no more intelligence activi-

ties. Idid not believe that I had disclosed any secrets of the American in-

stallation, much less any of West Germany's state secrets in my reports. I

have made a complete confession. If I cannot decide to make further statements

concerning my mission in OBEkUkStl, this is based only on the fact that I have

to be afraid that my statements will become known in the last, and that re-

prisals will follow. I know that an influential man from the American 1n-

stallation Camp King has deserted to the Fussians.

read, approved, signed

ine.

401

10

TRANSLATION

CONFIDENTIAL

---

