# 194-10012-10040

## Page 1

Date

Page

: 02/09/98

: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD

: 194-10012-10040

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: AC643360W - PAGES. 28-29

=,--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM MAJ SWAFFORD

TO : CO, USAOSD

TITLE : DISPOSITION FORM

DATE : 10/15/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : PUNINER, JORDAN J.

ALPHA 66

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 13

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS JFK bI)

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/97

OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA AND ONI.

COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH CIA AND ONI (PG. 29)

HAVE. BEEN

COMPLETED AND DETERMINED TO BE

RELEASABLE,

PER LTR DID

23. SEP 97 AND OÑI MEMO DID 1 OCT 97.

---

## Page 2

ACE FIERA

studio dong inà

FILE NO.

TO

-22-9

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN

DISPOSITON FORM

TUNE SENITAL

SUBJECT

Alpha 66 (V)

FROM

USAOSD

Major Swafford

DATE

COMMENT NO, 1

15.00t 62

(u1).

1. (8)

USAOSD: has three contacts with Alpha 66:

a. Jordan James

Pfuntner in contact with USAOSD tean in Miani..

Pfuntner is a US citizen no is a plastics consultant. He apparently has

direct contact with the highest echelons of the Alpha 6o organization.

b. DUP 737 in contact with-USAGSD- tean in Puerto, Rico. A US

insurance man located in San Juan, Puerto Rica who has contact with DUP 739

and possibly members of the

Alpha 66 group.

c. DUP 739 in contact with USAOSD team in Puerto Rico. A. Guban

exile who works in the same insurance company as DUP 737, and, who is in

contact with members of the Alpha 66 group.

2. 93)

Of the above contacts, only Pfuntner is considered to have an

important entree to Alpha 66.

a. DUP 737 and 739 are used primarily as Spotter-Recruiters; and have

volunteered information concerning the activities of Alpha 66. A recent

example was prior notification of the raid on 8 October against La Isabela.

USAOSD team is afforded no access to members of the Alpha 66 group, does not.

furnish reguirements, nor dees it finance either these Sources or the Alpha

66 group.

b. Initial contact was established with Pfuntner by the USAOSD. team

in Miami on 4, S0, and Lu September 1962. During these contacts, Pfuntner

made the following statements:

(1) That he was inccontact with a group which was going to conduct

raids against Guba. This group was subsequently identified as Alpha 66.

(2) That the group refuded to work with CIA, but desired to work

with the US military.

(3) That the group desired support of the US Army in their

action phase, i.e., funds, equipment, arms, etc. In return the group would

provide information, would furnish captured equipment, and could land Agents

(4) Pfuntner refused to identify any member of the group, or

to reveal any of their plans or modus operandi.

b (iii)

DD FESSO

10 98 MACES NUE FORM S, OCT 8.

A V. A. GOVERNIENT PRIMTIA OFFICE: 190A

---

## Page 3

b (iii)

USAOSD believes that Alpha 6ó has an excellent potential

to obtain military information from Cuba and also items of Soviet Ordnance

material. Exploitation of Alpha 66 by USADSD indicates that the following

factors should be (considered carefully:

*. II USAOSD attenpted to coordinate the operational use of this

organization with CIA, it is believed that CIA would request that the

operation be turned over to them for exploitation.

b. Alpha 66 appears more properly an action type organization

engaged in combatting Communism by armed force than a clandestine organization,

and might be better utilized by General Lanedale's shop,

co It is considered possible that the activities of Alpha 66 might

have upset the current negotiations of Mr Donovon to effect the release

of the Cuban prisoners, and consequently a policy decision might be made at

the highest level to nullify Alpha 66, Further activities of Alpha 6ó might

upset political negotiations at the highest level, and reactions might affect

d. It is interesting to note that Carlos Prio Socarros climbed on

the bandwagon on 14 October and in a radio comment indicated that he was

going to effectively support armed resistance to Castro. If he should begin

contributing lagge suns of money to Alpha 66, and/or engage in similar

activities, it could further upset national policy at the highest level.

This could

subsequently affect OACSI and USAOSD, depending upon reactions

to events. USAGSD is currently engaged in expoiting socarras's political

group, the PRE.

5.T8) Recommended Recommended that:

*, USAOSD present involvement with Alpha 6ó be made explicitly

clear to interested Divisions of OACSI.

b. Further utilization of Alpha 66 by USAOSD be clarified by

Operations Branch, Collection Division, in view of the many ramifications.

c. That USAOSD be authorized to exploit Alpha 6ó.

d. That ONI be contacted for intelligence interest in Soviet UDT •

counterneasures.

e. That utilization by General Lansdalers group be investigated.

7::E

7521

20

---

