# 194-10013-10339

## Page 1

Date : 01/23/98

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10339

RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: ZF000003W - PAGES 1377 - 1378

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : ERICKSON, C A JR.

TO :

TITLE : LETTER

DATE : 10/09/69

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL

AGENT. REPORT

PULLEY, INGRID

LEE, ARTHUR JR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION EONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN FULE

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

JFK biii)

***

**:*

***

* *

*W*

*I*

*T*

*I*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

*I*

* *

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

+ it

* *

***

***

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

CON DEA

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

BERT IN STATION 766TH MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DETACHMENT

66TH MILITARY INTELLIGENCE GROUP

APO 09742

AEUIMI-0-G( CE)

SUBJECT:

9 October 1969

DPOB:

Halberstadt, Germany

Commanding Officer

766th MI Detachment

66th MI Group

ATIN: ABUTMI-OP-CE/CS

APO 09108

1. (U) Reference:

Letter, this Station, dated 10 September 1969,

Subject

as above.

2. (C) Attached is one Agent Report reflecting in summary, the results

of Technical Coverage In effect on SUBJECT from 10 September 1969 to

FOR THE COMMANDER:

1 Incl:

as

C. A. BALOKSON, TR

CW4, USA

Operations Officer'

1377

GROUP 3

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

---

## Page 4

CONFICENTIAL

AGENT REPORT

(SR 380-320 - 10)

1• NAME OF SUBUECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

DOB:

POB:

2. DATE SUBMITTED

9 October 1969

3- CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

Halberstadt, Germany

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

On 6 October 1969, Source BER-10 provided information regarding

correspondence to SUBJECT,

a summary of which is as follows:

A personal letter, dated 30 September 1969, addressed to SUBJECT

from Sergeant

Student Company B, USIMA,

Mata Company Grade Class 4-70, Box 6745, Fort Brage, North Carolina, 28307,

a Negro associate of SUBJECI, indicates that

is presently undergoing

training at Fort Bragg.

mentioned that he left Germany to go to

Vietnam but that he is, at the moment, unsure that this assignment will.

occurr.

stated that a determination as to whether he goes to Vietnam

should be reached in January of 1970. If

send for SUBJECT in the early part of 1970.

I does go to Vietnam, be will

AGENT'S NOTES: Attention is invited to Agent Report by the

undersigned, dated 10 September 1969, Subject as above, wherein

intention to marry SUBJECT is reported.

is apparently the father of

SUBJECT'S expected child.

1378

GROUP 3

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

TURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NORMAN E. HAWES, 766TH MI DETACHMENT

FORM

Norman E Haves

DA 1 APR 52 341

PNINAL

0 - 4663

---

