# 194-10013-10340

## Page 1

--,

Date : 01/26/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

......

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER

= 194-10013-10340

RECORDS SERIES

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ZF000003W - PAGES 1379 - 1380

.,-/

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

:: USA

FROM : DERZIS, PETE N

TO : MR. HERMAN

TITLE

: LETTER

DATE

06/29/54

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL.

PENETRATION POSSIBILITIES

PULLEY, INGRID

PULLEY, JAMES W

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B, 2

CURRENT. STATUS

POSTPONED IN FULL.

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/20/95

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

****

***

***

* *

*w+

*I*

*T*

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

+I*

**

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

**.

t.**

***

*.*.*.

---

## Page 2

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 3

1. Requesting Organization:

Confidenfial

CONFIDENTIALI

REQUEST FOR CIS COVERAGE

66 th QIC RECT 3 VITI

A2O 742

TO ARMY

Has. Info, Copy

66th CIC Group

USARE TR

8s 3702

(Letter-No.)

Date 29-

• 2. To: CO, Station

$ 71

APO

742

(Att'n

3.. Coverage Is required of:

—Telephone—

—Telegraph-

(Postal)

of the following individual(s)

(Firm, office, etc.):

a) Name: ..

"Ismes of known persone are attached.

Address:

See attached.

Telephone No::

(Circle one or more)

Required Into: The Us and Allied detectore presently residing in the city of

Daurame are of in intellect intorost and coverege 15 deeired toy

determine their present aotirittes,

Request is submitted to obtain information concernine US and allied do-

Feators in BATTEDY in order to effect penetration possibilities.

b) (If other persans are linked to the same case, attach extra sheets.)

4. Intercepts should be givon/dispached to 00, Segon VIII, Goth 010 Group, 420 712, US Army

., Attention - A2. 3011194F

5. Coverage is desired effective .... Immediatol

for o period of Indefinite. days.

. All Intercepts on this cose should be titled:

EL-CAC/VILI-8452-

Tel.

1n 423279

CIS Form No. 5

AGL (2) -10000 - 5.51 - 20065 - 1836

1379

Matter El Juns Maro

CONADENT

SORTS DERAIS

Commanding

Reg VIII

Confidential

L: 3243

---

## Page 4

DISPOSITION FORM

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION (1/G7%)

CONFIDENHIAL

28732

FILE ND.

AUC-SB

SUBJECT

US Personnel in Soviet Custody (U)

TO

Co, 66th GIC Group

APO 154, US Forces

ATTIE:

ABUC-SBCI

FROM

CO, Region IT

66th CIC Group

APO 100, US Forces

(U)

Reference Dossier #GE-011806, Subject

DATE

COMMENT NO. 1

GP/daz/MM 8217

2.

(c)

was incarcerated during September 1957, as a direct

result of information obtained from her during the course of an interrogetion

conducted by this Region. During the course of the interrogation,

of the opinion that she would receive a sentence frow three to five jears

for her activities in attempting to defect US Army personnel to the Bast

Zone.

This office learned through its liaison contacts that the maximum

sentence she would receive would be approximately one year confinement.

Hence, this fact was used as a bargaining point to extract a contession

* She appeared to be extremely grateful to CIC because she was

of the opinion that because she told the truth concerning her activities,

CIC had interceded in getting her sentence reduced.

3 (U)

was discharged from prison on 14 October 1958. It is

interesting

to note that

voluntarily contacted this Hegion üpon her

release.

It is felt that she had two purposes in mind when contacting this

Region:

An expression of gratitude for having had her sentence reduced

to one year.

To solicit information as to the whereabouts of her husband,

dossier #F2-006744, and her mother who resides in the vicinity

of Bautzen,

Cast Germany.

4: (C) It is considered important that the whereabouts of

known at all times. First,

because of her nission; and secondly, because she,

in all probability, will legally or illegally attempt to contact her husband

When this happens, Region IV stands to benefit from any informa-

tion which

she may obtain.

5. (c)

appears to be friendly, cooperative, and fearful of

returning to

She is of the opinion that should she continue her

mission and come to the attention of CIC in unfavorable circunstances, she

would again be incarcerated.

6. (C) Plans for development of

are to continue periodic contacts

with her to obtain any infornation concerning above SUBJICT, and to maintain

CIS coverage.

1380

AR dtd lê Not 58

ENE) soN, Mair

re SUBJ lOUT LOG Nr.

ROBERT C LAWRENCE, Maj, MI (Sigo)

Commanding

DD , FEES 96

REPACES IME FORM BI OCTE, WHICH MY BE USED.

ẠGL (1) 5-56-2MM-49787

RECRADING DATA CANNOT BE PREDEIERMINED

---

