# 197-10002-10190

## Page 1

197-10002-10190

Date

Page

05/20/97

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

USA

: 197-10002-10190

HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE : CIA TDCS-3/566,305

DATE

: 00/00/63

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS : WEST GERMANY: SOVIET MILITARY ALERT FOLLOWING KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

:1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955

DooId: 32281398

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CONST

62414

0002.200 a 2 a 088 m

GUSR/TAST CERITY/TASTERS TO ÜP

TING HIGEZSCETS OF MILITANT MANLE

SUIDIARY 1O. 18

NO TONITOY DISSEN

MADE NA. TDCS -3/800, 208

ARRCRADNOR

APOLACES

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

son

5/14197

noa

20-26 NOTTIBER 1963

PLACT &

DATE ACQ GERHASY, MUSICH /29 NOVEMBER 1983/

IN TEST.

APPRAISAL 3, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED/

PTILO REPORT NO. EGK-27398

THIS & UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION, SOUNCE CHAORICE ARE DEEDITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCI

FROM INFORKANTS OF VARYING

RELIABILITY.

FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE

WEEKLY SUMMARY NO 48/63, COVERING THE PERIOD OF 20-26 NOVEMBER 63.

1. DURING THE WEEK UNDER REVIEW, THERE WERE NO INDICATIONS

OF PREPARATION FOR ATTACK BY SOVIET BLOC FORCES.

2. PART A. GENERAL.

LÄST WEEK'S EXERCISE AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES IN THE SOVIET BLOC

ARMED FORCES WERE NORMAL AND WERE THUS IN KEEPING WITH THE

GENERAL PACE OF TRAINING AT THIS TIME OF YEAR.

SOVIET AND SATELLITE FORCES REACTED TO THE ASSASSINATION OF

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES NOV 22NDO WUTH PRE-

CAUTIONARY MEASURES OF A GENERAL NATURE WHICH MAY BE

SE CBET

DONY/ACON MADE

CLASSIFICATION DISSIMINATION CONTROLS

NO TOREIGN DISSEM

ODEL ONE LOSE COMPLA

1100 l

100 a.

TELEGRAM

DA ON 0574729

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

SECRET

300 C

---

## Page 3

800 c/300. 209

INTLIPRITIO AS A ALASTION DO CORDESPONDINE STARD. 8Y

MEASURES OF THE U.S. FORCES.

IT IS EXPECTIO THAT IN THE PRESENT SITUATION SOVIET TACTICS

IN THE FIELO OF MILITARY POLICY MILL BE MARKED BY CAUTION.

3. PA98 B. AAN:O FORCES.

A. USSR/EAST GERMAN. "

11 ON THE NIGHT OF 22/23 NOVEMBER, SPECIAL ALERT

MEASURES WERE ORDERED IN THE ORANI ENBURG. GARRISON FOR NVA$

UNITS AND POSSIBLY ALSO FOR SOVIET ARMY UNITS /SEVERAL B/F-31.

THE MEASURE-WAS PRESUMABLY TAKEN IN

CONNECTION WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. & IT

APPARENTLY WAS CONFINED TO THE BERLIN AREA.

B. EAST GERMAN.

1/ SINCE MID-OCTOBER 1963, CONTROL POSTS /SO-CALLED

HINTERLANDPOSTEN/ HAVE BEEN STAGGERED IN DEPTHS OF UP TO

I KILOMETER FROM THE INTERZONAL BORDER DURING WEEKEND NIGHTS..

/SEVERAL F=3/.

C4. PART C. GROUND FORCES.

A. SOVIET.

11 SURAP: GERMIN CONNENT ON TRAINERO /BRICE.

TRAINING AP LOCAL PRAIMINE GROUNOS ANO NUMEROUS GRIVINO

SCHOOLS IS INDICATIVE OR ASCRUIT TRALMIND O

then 10 To 19

---

## Page 4

100 -9/900.209

CARACISES, PRESUMBLY AS ASGISENTAL ARVEG, A8 INE 88PGBIERA

MIIB8 ANO ALTENGRASON PRODS PRAININE CROLTOS.

SINCE 28 NOVEMBER, THIRS MANT BIEN TENTATIVE INDICATIONS

OF ACTIVITY OUTSIDE GARRISONS OF ELEMENTS OF THE J4TH

ARTILLERY DIV. NO DBSERYATIONS MAVE BELA MADE AS YET

INDICATIVE OF EXERCISES WITH FULL UNITS PARTICIPATING.

•5. PART D. AIR FORCEE• NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.

6.: PART E.: NAVY.

Ao SOVIET.

1/ ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963, ONE F-CLASS SUBMARINE, WITHOUT

PT-NUMBER, PASSED NORTHWARD THROUGH THE GREAT BELT. /B-21

7. PART F. LOGISTICS, AND PART GI PSYCHOLOGICAL .

NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.

FIELD DISTRIBUTION: ARMY, AIR, NAVY, USEUCOM

END OF MESSAGE

ACTIONI

16: °0

A600, 1Ar9, Ar, 1oi, 033

DA

C00g

57472

---

