# 197-10002-10196

## Page 1

197-10002-10196

Date

Page

05/20/97

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

USA

: 197-10002-10196

HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM

TITLE : REVIEW, 22 NOVEMBER 1963

DATE

: 11/23/96

PAGES

: 13

SUBJECTS

: SITUATION IN SOUTHEAST ASIA

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

лк us sa nas sons ne

IR]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW

50955

DooId: 32281404

Page

1

---

## Page 2

150

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

PSECRED NO FOREIGN DISSER

MACARON DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTAT

SOUTHEAST ASIA

22 HOVENBER 1903

• REPORENQ... TDES =3/565,804

DATE DISTR 23; NOVEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OR PE

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACH

NPRASAL

**%: REFERENCES

66899

22 NOVEMBER 1963

FIELD REPORT NO.

FSS 1369%

THIS I UNEVALUATED MIFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS

ARE

DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE®

SOURCE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENI:

AS SANITIZED

8m 5714/97

1. ::URMA-- NEGOTIATIONS WITH INSURGENTS.

" THE PEACE TALKS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE

WI: TE FLAG COMMUNISTS AND THEIR ASSOCIATES IN THE

#TIONAL DEMOCRATIC UNITED FRONT (NDUF) BROKE DOWN ON

14 NO!. 491 PEOPLE, INCLUDING LEADING LEFT WING

POLITICIANS, WERE SUBSEQUENTLY ARRESTED. THS NDUF

WAS ACCUSED OF TRYING TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE

GOVERNMENT BY POLITICAL, MILITARY AND ORGANUZATIONAL

ACTIVITIES DURING THE TALKS.

B. /THE GOVERNMENTS DECISION TO ACCEPT A BREAKDOWN

SECRETE

048182004

MORE NSSENO

BASERA

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORTETELEGRAM.

---

## Page 3

Man Files Mu

NATION. CONTROLS

DISSEM

TDOS - 3/565,804

N 66899.

PAGE 2

WAS SERIOUS AND BOLD AS CHINA WAS CLOSELY INVOLVED

WITH THE WHITE FLAG COMMUNISTS. THERE MAY HAVE BEEN

SOME ENCOURAGEMENT OR REASSURANCE FROM THE USSR,

ALTHOUGH SOME OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED ARE BELIEVED

TO HAVE BEEN MOSCOW ORIENTED.

C. THIS DEVELOPMENT WILL PROSABLY ENCOURAGE THE

BURMESE GOVERNMENT TO TRY TO REACH AN AGREEMENT WITH

SAW HUNTER AND THE MORE MODERATE INSURGENTS. IF THESE

TALKS FAIL, GENERAL NE WIN WILL EE FACED WITH AN

INSURGENT THREAT WHICH HAS INCREASED RAPIDLY.

2. CAMEODIA--RECENT DEVELOPMENTS.

A. AT A SPECIAL MEETING OF THE NATIONAL CONGRESS ON

I9 NOV IT WAS DECIDED TO DISPENSE INMEDIATELY

WITH ALL US AID. THIS DECISION FOLLOWED A LONG

INTERROGATION OF TWO MEMBERS OF THE KHMER SEREI

WHICH WAS CONSIDERED TO PROVE US INVOLVEMENT IN ITS

ACTIVITIES AND BROADCASTS. IN FACT THEIR

ANSWERS SEEM TO SHOW NO. MORE THAN THAT US ARMS AND

EQUIPMENT ARE PLENTIFUL IN SOUTH VIETNAM, THAT THE

KHMER SEREI HAD RECEIVED AMERICAN ASSISTANCE TO FIGHT

THE VIET CONG AND ALSO AMERICAN RADIO APPARATUS.

GASUSALON - 25 EASITION CONTROLS

DA IN 153060

---

## Page 4

SEGREI

IRATION CONTROLS

TDOS -3/565,804

When Filled hay

IN

66899

PAGE

SIHANOUK'S SPEECHES LASHED. THE CROWD. INTO A FURY AND

ONE OF THE MEMBERS HAS BEEN COMMITTED FOR TRIAL BY A

MILITARY COURT WITH WHAT AMOUNTS TO A DIRECTION THAT

HE SHOULD BE GIVEN THE DEATH SENTENCE.

B. TWO MIG FIGHTERS WERE DELIVERED IN CRATES AT

POCHENTONG ON 8 NOV, BROUGHT BY ROAD FROM

SIHANOUKVILLE. TWO FURTHER MACHINES WERE .

EXPECTED THE NEXT DAY, THE RUSSIAN SHIP WHICH

_ BROUGHT THE PLANES HAD A DECK CARGO OF SOME TWENTY

FIVE VEHICLES. SOME OF THESE MAY CONTAIN FIGHTERS

DIRECTION RADAR.

3°

INDONESIA- GOVERNMENT CHANGES.

THE BRITISH AMBASSADOR AT DUAKARTA HAS COMMENTED THAT THE

RECENT CABINET CHANGES SEEM TO REFLECT SOME DECLINE IN .

NASUTIONS INFLUENCE. ALTHOUGH NONE OF THE THREE

NEW DEPUTY PRIME MINISTERS EXERCISES ANY SUPERVISORY

FUNCTION OVER THE DEFENSE AND SECURITY "COMPARTMENT"

FOR WHICH HE IS COORDINATING MINISTER, HE HAS LOST

THE HONORIFIC TITLE OF DEPUTY FIRST MINISTER AND

HIS INFLUENCE AT THE CENTER IS LESS THAN THAT OF

CLASSI

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

DA: IN 153060

---

## Page 5

ION CONTROLA

SECRE

SECS -3/565,804

66899

PAGE:

SUBANDRIO, CHAERUL SALEH AND LEIMENA.

40 LAOS RENEWED CEASE FIRE NEGOTIATIONS.

AO MILITARY DELEGATIONS LED BY COLONEL SINGKAPO

AND KONG LE MET AT THE PLAINE DES JARRES ON

i6 NOV, IN THE PRESENCE OF REPRESENTATIVES

OF THE ICC AND THE COCHAIRMEN OF THE GENEVA

CONFERENCE. THE PATHET LAO DELEGATION PROPOSED

A CEASE FIRE BETWEEN THEIR FORCES AND THOSE OF THE

NEUTRALISTS AND ALSO SUGGESTED FURTHER TALKS BETWEEN

THE MILITARY LEADERS TO PREPARE THE WAY FOR POLITICAL

TALKS. BETWEEN PRINCE SOUVANNA PHOUMA AND PRINCE

SOUPHANNOUVONG. THE NEUTFALISTS PROPOSED A RETURY

TO THE POSITIONS OF JULY 1962 AND AN INCREASE IN

THE ACTIVITY OF THE ICC.

B. BOTH SIDES AGREED TO ORDER A CEASE FIRE WHILE

TALKS CONTINUE (THIS MAY HAVE BEEN BROKEN ALREADY) O

C. THE PATHET LAO APPEAR TO BE TRYING TO SPLIT THE

NEUTRALISTS AND PHOLMIS FORCES. KONG LE IS WELL

AWARE OF THIS. THE RIGHT WING REACTION TO THESE

TALKS HAS NOT BEEN EXPRESSED BUT AT SUBORDINATE

LEVEL THEY DO NOT SEEM DISPOSED TO OBJECT.

CLASSIRICALON - DISSIMINATION CONTROLS

A Pane

DAIN: 453060

---

## Page 6

5

17

7O

TDCS -3/565,804

PAGI

66899

5

Do IF THE POLITICAL TALKS TAKE PLACE THEY MAY BE

ARRANGED AT LUANG PRABANG. SOUVANNA PUDUNA I:TENDS

TO PROPOSE THIS AS A NEUTRALIZED PROVISIOVAL

CAPITAL.

= THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN VIENTIANE IS

ENCOURAGING THE NEUTRALISTS IN THEIR LINE.

F. THE OFFENSIVE LAUNCHED BY NEUTRALIST AND RIGHT

WING FORCES ON 9 NOV HAS LOST ITS MOMENTUM.

XIENG KHOLANG WHICH WAS. TO HAVE BEEN ATTACKED ON

18 NOVEMBER IS STILL HELD BY THE PATHET LAO. THE

RIGHT WING TROOPS FAILED TO PUSH THE ATTACK AS

PLANNED.

5 • MALAYSIA - MALAYS.

À. THE FEDERATION SPECIAL BRANCH HAS ARRESTED AND

DETAINED AN INDONESIAN FROM SUMATRA WHO ARRIVED AT

BATU PAHAT IN A BOAT CARRYING RAW RUSBER FROM

SUMATRA• HE CLAIMED TO HAVE VISITED RELATIVES IN THE

NEIGHBORHOOD FOR TWO DAYS AND THEN LEFT AGAIN FOR

SUMATRA IN THE BOAT. HOWEVER HE THEN LANDED ILLEGALLY

FURTHER DOWN THE COAST SHORTLY BEFORE HE WAS PICKED

UP ON SUSPICION. UNDER INTERROGATION HE ADMITTED

CLASSIRICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

DA IN. 153060

---

## Page 7

5-100

5.7

TiEs -3/565,804

WhEn PA i91

120

PAGE

NO FOREN

66899

6

THAT HE WAS ONE OF A PARTY CE EVEN LADONESIANS

WHO HAO RECEIVED TRAININO LA PLEDO CENCALIS, ESTATRA,

MiLO HERE PUT ASHORE AT VARIOUS POINES ALCIS THE CO-ST

BETWEEN MUAR AND PONTIAN. THER HIISION LAS TO PIN

FOINT POLICE STATIONS, GOVERNET SUEDING AND

MILITARY INSTALLATIONS ME DOM. ENGINE NOTES AVO

CRANINGS OF THEM. THEY WERE E WERED TO A CENTRAL

RENDEZVOUS ON 5 NOY WHEN THEY ME EE TAKEN

OFF SY BOAT TO INDONESIA. TAE HIGH TO BE RECCONIZEO

AND RECOGNIZE EACH OTHER BY FELING GO. THE RIGHT.

SLEEVE OF THEIR SHIRTS. UNFEE SNATELY THE PRISONER

WÄS ONLY BROKEN UNDER INTERRECTION CH 7. NOVENBER.

3. UNDER FURTHER QUEST HE BOVE THE NAVE OF À

LOCAL INDONESIAN PENGULD AS GET HER CONTACTE

THIS PERSON HAS NOW SEEN ARRESTED AND IS UNDER SPECIAL

BRANCH INTERROGATION, SOME EETEINGONESIAM DOGUMENTS

WERE FOUND AT HIS HOUSE. SO A GIGH SRANCH HAS

FOUND NO TRACE OF THE OTHER S:: PERSONS ALLEGEO TO

HAVE INFILTRATED. INVESTIGATION IS CONTINUING.

ÉO MALAYSIA -- SINGAPORE.

A. THIRTY LEFT WING TRADE UNIONS AFFILIATED TO THE

CANDIAMON CONTACK

DA IN 153.060

was so dea

---

## Page 8

TDOS -3/565,804 .

66899

DAGE

7

FORMER SINGAFORE ASSOCIATIO:: OF TRADES UNIONS (SATU)

REACTED TO THE BANNING OF SATU IN A STATEMENT ON

16 VOY MARNING THAT "THE PEOPLE OF SINGAPORE

WOULD BE FORCED TO SEEX OTHER MEANS TO CONTINUE

TRETO STRUGGLE FOR A NATIONAL, DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT

SHOULS THE CHANVEL OF CONSTITUTICNAL STRUGGLE EE

BLOCKED. " THE REACTIORY GROUPS, THE STATEMENT

ADDED, "WILL BEAR ALL COSSEQUENCES THAT MAY ARISE."

FOLLOWING THE BAN OY SATU THE ROLE OF THE BARISAN

(es)

SOSIALIS/ASSUMED INCREASING IMPORTANCE, SINCE IT IS

NOW ALMOST THE ONLY REMAINING OVERT AND REGISTERED

ORGAN:: ZATIO: TO PROVIDE A WIDE PEPRESENTATION

- OF THE COMMUNIST INSPIRED UNITED FRONT. AT A MEETING

OF LESDERS OF THE PARTY ON ID NOV DR. LEE SIEW-

CHOA, THE CHAIRMAN, WAS REPORTED EÍ A DELICATE

SOURCE TO HAVE URGED BRANCHES TO STRENGTHEN THEIR

ORGANIZATION, ESPECIALLY IN THE FIVE CONSTITUENCIES

WHERE BY ELECTIONS WERE POSSIBLE FOLLOWING: THE

DETENTION OF THREE, AND DISAPPEARANCE OF TWO, BS

ASSEMBLYMEN. DR. LEE ALSO REPORTEDLY POINTED

TO THE DEVELOPING GUERILLA WAR IN SARAWAK AS

CLASSIFICATION • DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

DA IN 153060.

Ladies

---

## Page 9

CLASSIFICATION A DISSE

ATION CON

OLe

IN

PACE

66899

TDES -3/565,804

(Whes Files 1n)

FORMER SINGAPORE ASSOCIATION OF TRADES UNIONS (SATU

REACTED TO THE BANNING OF SATU IN 'A STATEMENT ON

16 NOV WARNING THAT "THE PEOPLE OF SINGAPORE

WOULD BE FORCED TO SEEK OTHER MEANS TO CONTINUE

THEIR STRUGGLE FOR A NATIONAL, DEMÖCRATIC MOVEMENT

SHOULD THE CHANNEL OF CONSTITUTIONAL STRUGGLE BE

BLOCKED." THE REACTIONARY GROUPS, THE STATEMENT

ADDED, "WILL BEAR ALL CONSEQUENCES THAT MAY ARISE."

FOLLOWING THE BAN. ON SATU THE ROLE OF THE BARISAN

(es)

SOSIALIS/ASSUMED INCREASING IMPORTANCE, SINCE IT IS

NCH ALMOST THE ONLY REMAINING OVERT AND REGISTERED

ORGANIZATION TO PROVIDE A WIDE REPRESENTATION

:.OF THE COMMUNIST INSPIRED UNITED FRONT. AT A MEETING

OF LEADERS OF THE PARTY ON 18 NOV DR. LEE SIEW-

CHOH, THE CHAIRMAN, WAS REPORTED BI A DELICATE

SOURCE TO HAVE URGED BRANCHES TO STRENGTHEN THEIR

ORGANIZATION, ESPECIALLY iN THE FIVE CONSTITUENCIES

WHERE BY ELECTIONS WERE POSSIBLE FOLLOWING THE

DETENTION OF THREE, AND DISAOPEARANCE OF TWO, BS

ASSEMBLYMEN. DR. LEE ALSO REPORTEDLY POINTED

TO THE DEVELOPING GUERILLA WAR IN SARAWAK AS

CLASMRICATION M DIBSIMINATION CONTAOIA

MDA IN. 153060)

17019026

0953

Docld: 32281404 Page 9

---

## Page 10

TDCS -3/565,804

66899

PAGE

BEING FAVORABLE TO THE LEFT WING MOVEMENT IN SINGAPORE.

7• MALAYSIA--SARAWAK.

A. ON 13 NOV A SECURITY FORCE PATROL CLASHED

WITH AN ENEMY GROUP OF UNKNOWN STRENGTH IN THE BORDER

AREA APPROXIMATELY TWENTY MILES EAST-NORTH-EAST OF

LUBOR ANTU, IN THIRD DIVISION. AFTER A FIGHT WHICH

LASTED FOR ABOUT FORTY-FIVE MINUTES THE ENEMY PARTY

WITHDREW ACROSS THE FRONTIER. IN THIS ACTION ONE

POLICE FIELD FORCE MEMBER WAS WOUNDED AND SUBSEQUENTLY

DIED. ENEMY CASUALTIES ARE OSSEURE BUT IT IS THOUGHT

THAT AT LEAST FIVE OF THEM WERE HIT.

B. IN SECOND DIVISION, AN ENEMY. PARTY APPROXIMATELY

FIFTY STRONG ENTERED A LONG HOUSE ON THE BORDER

SOUTH NEST OF SIMANEGANG AT MIDNIGHT ON 15-16

NOVEMEER. FOLLOWING SOME INDISCRIMINATE FIRING

WHICH LASTED ABOUT TEN MINUTES THE RAIDING PARTY

WITHDREW HAVING SLIGHTLY WOUNDED ONE LOCAL IBAN.

NO OTHER CASUALTIES WERE REPORTED. IN TAKING FOLLOW-UP

ACTION, SECURITY FORCES HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO MAKE

CONTACT WITH THIS GROUP.

Co IT: IS. POSSIBLE THAT AN IRREGULAR FORGE OF UNKNOWN

GHAS MICATION, - DISSEMINATION CONTAOLS

DA IN 153060-0

---

## Page 11

CLALSIRCANON - BISSIMIMARON CONTROLS

SHORTI

We Mus 11

TDOS - 3/565,804

DI

PAGE

66899

STRENGTH BUT IN POSSESSION OF A MORTAR HAS PENETRATED

INTO FIRST DIVISION. ON 19 NOV A LOCAL WAS

STOPPED BY AN ARMED UNIFORM MAN NEAR KAMPONG

S: LAMPIT (DUE SOUTH OF LUNDU) AND TOLD TO RETURN TO

HIS KAMPONG OR HE WOULD BE SHOT: SOME i5 MINUTES

LATER SIX ROUNDS OF FAIRLY ACCURATE MORTAR FIRE FELL

IN THE KAMPONG SELAME! AREA, THERE HERE NO

THE MORTAR

POSITION SOUTH OF THE VILLAGE AND SOME FOUR MILES

INSIDE SARAWAK. THE MORTAR USED HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED

AS A 5OMM TYPE. A LARGE QUANTITY OF TYPED AND

WRITTEN PROPAGANDA IN MALAY WAS FOUND IN THE VICINITY.

DO THERE WERE THO MORE SORDER VIOLATIONS EY

INDONESIAN AIRCRAFT ON 17 NOVEMBER. ONE WAS AT

BARIO AND LONG RAPANG, ON THE BORDER OF THE FOURTH

AND FIFTH DIVISIONS OF SARAWAK, AND THE OTHER AT

WALLAGE BAY ON-SEBATIK ISLAND. IF IS BELIEVED THAT

THE SAME: F51 AND 825 AIRCRAFT WERE CONCERNED IN

BOTH INCIDENTS.

E. ' IN THE COURSE OF A RECENT OPERATION IN THE

SENSESHOM - DISIONINATION CONTROLI

IN. 15.0000

Do mediato

5

DocId: 32281404 Page 11

!:

---

## Page 12

ATOs COMO

I ASSEME

66899

TOCS -3/505,804

PAGE

DEKENU AREA OF FOURTH DIV!SiO':, ! CHINESE: EIGHT OF

WHOM HAD COME TO BEKENU FROT KUSHING WITHIN THE

PREVIOUS SIX MONTHS, WERE ARRESTED. INTERROGATION

HAS REVEALED THAT THE CHINESE FROM XUCHING, ALL OF

''OM ARE SARAWAK FARMERS' ASSOCIATION (SFA)

MEMBERS, WERE SENT TO THIS AREA BY THE CLANDESTINE

COMMUNIST ORGANIZATION ¡ CCO, TO ORGANIZE A MILITANT

GROUP• THIS GROUP HAS BLEN FORMED UNDER THE COVER

OF THE SFA AND CONSISTS AT PRESENT OF 11D PERSONS,

48 OF WHOM ARE CHINESE AND 7E KEDAYANS. THREE

EOXES OF HAND GRENADES ARE SAID TO HAVE BEEN DELIVERED

TO THIS GROUP BY BOAT FROM BRUNEI AND SUBSEQUENTLY

HIDDEN. IN THE COURSE OF THIS CERATION A LETTER

FROM ONE OF THE CHINESE ARAISINO WAS FOUND. THE

LETTER WAS INTENEDED FOR DISPATCH TO SINGKAWANG VIA

KUCHING AND APPARENTLY ASKED FOR A SECOND SHIPMENT

OF HAND GRENADES, IT IS REPORTED THAT NO PERSONAL

WEAPONS HAVE BEEN IMPORTED FOR THIS GROUP. THERE

WAS WIDESPREAD SUPPORT FOR TIF. TNKU FROM KEDAYANS

IN THIS AREA IN DECEMBLR IBU. THIS IS THE FIRST

KNOWN INSTANCE OF THE A MIME OF NATIVES

++888-290-991150

MORATOR CONSON

DA IN 1BIOGO

1214

J0955

Do010: 32281404 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TDES -3/565,804

66899

PAGE 11

TO:THE SFA AND OF COLLABORATIO' STREEN CHINESE AND

NATIVES IN THE CCO'S PREPARATIONS FOR ARMED STRUGGLE.

F. RECENT REPORTS SHOW THAI DURING OCT AND NOV

THERE HAS BEEN A RENEWED EXODUS OF CEO

SUPPORTERS FROM THE FIRST DIVISION TO WEST KALIMANTAN.

SOME ARE THOUGHT TO HAVE TRAVELEO BY SEA.

THIS CONTEXT IT IS OF INTEREST TO NOTE THAT A NON

EDITION OF THE OFFICIAL PUBLICATTON OF THE SFA STATED

THAT THE ARMED STRUGGLE "IS HOW MOST IMMINENT" AND

EXPRESSED CONFIDENCE THAT VICTORT WAS ASSURED.

G. A RELIABLE SOURCE HAS REPORTED THAT THE NINE

INDONESIANS WHO WERE WITH THE CO MILITAN: GROUP

IN THE GINATANG-SAREKE! AREA OF TRO DIVISION SEE

PARA 111 E 0F FSS 13635 (==:-3/564.936 ) HAD ARRIVED

THERE ON , SEFT, ARMED WITH AUTOMATIC WEAPONS AND HAND

GRENADES, AND HAD SUSSEQUENTLY GIVEN MILITARY TRAINING

TO SFA MEMBERS. THE SAME SOURCE ALLEGES THAT THE

CCO IN THE SAME AREA HAVE BEEN MANSRAGTURING

ELECTRICALLY OPERATIO ANTI PERSONNEL. MINES FROM

LOCALLY AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

8. MALASYS, A --SABA:.

CLASSIBIGATIO"

2 DI:SEMINATION CONTAOLI

DA: IN 153060

rade

---

## Page 14

4c0

NO FCRETON

TDCS -3/565,804

66899

PAGE 12

AN INDONESIAN ARRESTED IN TAWAU ON 14 NOV

HAS ADMITTED UNDER INTERROGATION THAT HE

IS AN INDONESIAN POLICE CONSTABLE FROM

TARAKAN. HE HAD BEEN SENT TO TAWAU SY THE CHIEF

OF POLICE OF THE BULONGAN/BERAU DISTRICT TO CONTACT

ANOTHER INDONESIAN POLICEMEN WHO IS CLEARLY IDENTICAL

WITH THE JAVANESE PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED AS THE PERSON

WHO PROPOSED THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BARISAN

PEMBRONTAKAN RAKUAT. SABAH IN MID SEPT 53 (SEE

PARA: IV OF FSS 13635 (130503/564,955 )O) HE WAS TO

REPORT BACK TO TARAKAN ON THE STATE, OF READINESS OF

THIS ORGANIZATION. THE CHIEF OF POLICE WOULD THEN

DECIDE ON ARRANGEMENTS FOR A SUPPLY OF HAND GRENADES

TO BE SENT TO THE ORGANIZATION IN TAWAU.

§• SOUTH YIETNAM MILITARY.

A. THE VICT LONG FAILED TO REACT DURING THE THREE

DAYS IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE SUCCESSFUL COUP D'ETAT ON

1 NOV AND IT CAN BE ASSUMED THAT THEY HAD

LITTLE OR NO IDEA THAT A COUP WAS IMMINENT. DURING

*THE NEXT 710 DAYS: VIET CONG ACTIVITY INCREASED CONSIDERABLY

IN THE SHAPE OF UNCOORDINATED ATTÄCKS

RICATION . DIISEMINATION CONTAOLI

DA IN 153060.00

---

## Page 15

was filled fa)

CLASSIFICATION E E

H0006

DISSEM

TDOS =3/565,804

IN

66299

PAGE 13

MAINLY AGAINST CIVIL GUARD POSTS, STRATEGIC HAMLETS

AND WATCHTOWERS. ACTIVITY HAS NOW DROPPED TO A MORE

NORMAL LEVEL.

S. ONE SERIOUS INCIDENT TOOK PLACE IN KIEN GIANG

PROVINCE, 120

MILES SOUTH WEST OF SAIGON, ON 13

NOV WHEN A CIVIL GUARD COMPANY WAS AMBUSHED BY

THE VIET CONG. GOVT LOSSES ARE REPORTED AS

55 KILLED, 314 WOUNDED, 6 MISSING AND 71 WEAPONS LOST.

V'ET CONG CASUALTIES ARE REFORTED AS EPT KILLED (SIC) AND

L WEAPONS CAPTURED. NO FURTHER DETAILS ARE YET AVAILABLE.

_C. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THIS-INCIDENT INDICATES THE

QUICKER AND STRONGER REACTION WHICH THE NEW GOVT WILL TAKE

AGAINST THE VIET CONG ATTACKS iN "E FUTURE.

IN. - FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINGPAC PAGFLT

PACAF ARPAC.

11A, "CHRADQUARTERS CONNGATE MISCINE PORTION HILL DE DIEGCHINATEE ONET

MATERIALLY AFFECTS THE SENGE OF THIS ECPONT.!

1.1T

ACTION:

DISTR

DESOP

DA IN 153060

NAVY, AF, JOS, O5D

AND DE MESSAGE

GLABDIOGAPIOR → DIBSAMIMATION COMPAOLA

HAN AKASHA

NIHT

955

DocId: 32281404 Page 15

---

