# 197-10002-10186

## Page 1

197-10002-10186

Date

Page

....

05/20/97

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

USA

197-10002-10186

HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

: CIA TDCS-3/566,030

DATE

: 11/28/63

PAGES

: 2.

SUBJECTS

: NETHERLANDS: SPECULATION ON KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:/ /

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

747 50955

DocId: 32281394

Page 1.

---

## Page 2

unit:

9A Під В

MELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTAY,

SUBJECT

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION-D

LATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NETHEALANOS

INTERNATIONAL

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/566,030

THE 25 NOVEMBER EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

MEETING DATE DISTR.

OF THE COMMUNIT PARTYTORY

20 NOVEMBER 1963

THE NITHERLANDO

PRECEDENCE

ROUT IN:

DẬTE OF

CP NOVENBER 1963

REFERENCES

IN

69397

PUICEA

DATIAGO

1O09AICAI

BATHIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURC

ADINGS ARE:

TON

13261

DEF

SOURCE

OFFICIAL OUTICH SERVICE

ISAL OF CONTEM

•IS TENT

CONMITTCE MEMBERS!!

FROM A SOURCE IN CICIA HASEND@S HERET RITA CENTRAL

DECLASSIFICATION AND/ORE

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED:

От 5/14/97

AT A 25 NOVEMBER 1963 MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF THE NETHERLANDS (CPN), THE FOLLOWING

CONCLUSION WAS REACHED CONCERNING THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

PRESIDENT KENNEDY WAS THE VICTIM OF ANTI-PEACE AND ANTI-PEACEFUL

COEXISTENCE FORCES IN AMERICA.

2." THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE CPN:

(A) THE POLICY OF THE CN WILL BE TO OPPOSE ALL OPPONENTS OF

PEACEFUL COEXISTENCE (B) THE CON WILL TAKE A "POSITIVE! STAND ON

THE KENNEOY ASSASSINATION AND WILL NOT REMAIN "ALOOF ON: THE SUBJECT

(C.) THE CPN WILL ISSUE AN OPEN INVITATION, TO THE DUTCH LABOR PARTY

SECRET

CLASSIPICATION DISSEM

CONTROLS

FORTON DASSEM

86010. 080

VIJA

0€ 1:

TELEGRAME

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DA INCIS5475

COLON NEX

CLOT

---

## Page 3

Power

When pled his

ATION CON

NO-FOREIGN DISSE

TDCS -3/566,030

69297

512194

TO BOND TOGETHER THEIR RESPECTIVE PEACE FORCES.

3O SPECIAL PROVISIONS HAVE BEEN MADE BY THE CPN TO INSURE THAT

ALLY LEVELS OF THE PARTY RECEIVE THE FOREGOING CONCLUSIONS AND

INSTRUCTIONS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

FIELD DISSEM: STATE.

ACTIONS

DISTR!

/ACSI

DCSOR NAVY, AFDICSAKOSD

END OF MESSAGE

DINES NINO FORECH UISSEN

---

