# 198-10006-10014

## Page 1

198-10006-10014|

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10006-10014

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

CIA INTELLIGENCE ANNEX

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

00/00/1963

5

CUBAN PROPAGANDA

LATIN AMERICA

TRAVEL TO CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Intelligence report outlining travel to and the movement of

propaganda from Cuba.

JFK Revied

Declasst of the Any o 13526

• Exclude → Exemp

Authority_

= Refer To

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId: 32423829 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Mour 1

from automatial

sading and

declassification

SECRET

ANNEX

CIA Intelligence Annex

1. Travel to and from Cube

Brass)

Chartered Cubana Airlines flights between Cuba and

Brasil bave becone a major meane of transporting non-Cuban

Latin Americans to and from Cuba.

The five such

. flights since

late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cubans.

The first of the recent series on 25 July < brought

71 Latin American passengere to Havana for the 26 July celebra-

tions.

The other four flights - on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August --

transported over 200 latia Amertcans to

Brazil fron Havana.

Some of the aircraft Involved returned to Cuba with smaller

mumbers of passengere. Many of che 200 Lacin Anerican passengers

had been delegates to the 26 July ceremontes,

but others had

apparently been la Cuba for longer periods and some had probably

received

training there,

Of the passengers on these four 111ghts

to Brasil, 75 vote natives of Caribbean area countries. Their

circuitous travel through Brazil was evidently designed to help

conceal the

Fact that they had been in Cuba.

Costá Mica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengere on a

chartered Cubana plane which wa turned back to Havana at Grand

Gaynen ón 11 July 1963, One was Luz Marine Hernandez Salazar,

the only Costa Rien woman known to have been sent to Cube for

trolning as a guerrilla warfare instructor.

She had been in

Cuba since September 1962.

The other Costa Rican passenger was

Carlos Guillen, former head of the Costa Rican Society of

Friends of Che

: Cuben Revolution, who had been la Cuba since

Novenber 1962.

Ecuadoz

the military

Junta, which assumed power in lcuador on 11 July, can be expected

SECRET

ATHT

50955

DooId: 32423829 Page

2

---

## Page 3

SECREE

to follow the guidance of the Embaasy

10

controlling travel to and from Cuba and the Soviet blos

The

activicles of Cuban subversives in Ecuador, at least for the

present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arteots of

Commmiete and pro-Cubane and by the outlawing of the Connuniet

Party by the junta,

Londuzaa

It le reported that tho Honduran Conmunist Farty bos

Lesued ordero to les members not to attempt to cravel to Cuba

at the present time.

Thie action le apparently the result of

the increasing vigilance of the Honduran governent and the

greater implementation of atricter travel controle.

2.

Movement o8. Cuban Ezenaganda

Gun tema la

According to an unconfimed report recelved in July,

a Bureau of Infomation of the Commnlet Party of Custenala 10

being forned in collaboration with Prenes latina and 1e to be

managed clendestinely.

It expecte to zeceive news by shortuave

radio from Cuba and print bulletins for distribution by zadio

stations. This may indicate a pattem by which Frensa latina

wIll attempt to distribute on a more clandestine baate In other

aroac in Latin Anerten.:

Fonderas

It was rollably reported thet in mid-July 1963, a

all coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communiat

propagends on the northern coast of Mondurae, the boxes having

been transferred at son from a larges vessel.

9.

Movenent of Guerrillas and Ars

Assentina

Extentat members of che Peroniot Party, apparently

under the leadership of euch figures as llector Villaion and

Jobn Willtam Cooke, are apparently receiving encouragement and

promises of large suns of money fron Cuba in support of their

efforts to train and orgmize subveralve groupe in Angentina.

SECRET

ATHT

70955

DooId:32123829 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Villelon has etated that his plan calla for expending and

accellerating cubversive sctivities in Argentine culinating

In a complote take over wichin to years. Thote le no Indica-

tion that Peron himself hao agreed to this plan.. Ic has been

reported that leaders of the Connist Party of Angentina have

been greatly annoyed by the tendency of the Castro regime to

support the revolutionazy Peroniets without baving consulted

- Che Comules Farty of Argentina.

Castrolot organtzation direeted from Cuba by John Willian Cooke,

has in recent weaks been negotiating for the purchase of arms

and has been offered submachine guns,

basoolas and other weapona

by two or three private suppllere. It was repersed, however,

that the AM was having difficulty getting enough dollaze from

avane deplore

Cuba to make eignificant purchases poseible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Mintotzy of Foraign Relatione on 23

August protested formally to the Cuban Charge d'Affaires in

La Paz against the Cuban Inbanny support to the niners during

the recent crloss.

Subsequently, howaver, Foreign Minister

Fellman informed the Cuban Charge that he neod not fear that

the Coverment of Bolivia would break Aplomstic relations with

There hos, in fact, been no hard infomacion linking the

Cuban Embassy ulth the present mining criets in spite of sono

unconfirned reporte of Cuban support.

Brazil

Cuban Ambassador to Braatl, Raul ton Kount, ie reported

to bave atteupted to encourage peasont: league lender Francisco

Juldeo to sovitalize the lesgues in northern Brazil. According

to some reporte efforto are being made to unify the leadership

and bring dissident elenonte under the general direction of

" Jultao.

Other reports indicate that, Alchough the Cuban Enbassy

1s providiag guidance and possibly finencial support to che

movement, It had not yet ranolved the interal dissension in

the leagues.

Cole Dia

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423829 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Go tombia

Tron Colonbia reports have been received of incressing

Cuban asiatance, primarily in tho form of training courses by

Instructore who have boen trained in Cubs, to the Worker-Student»

Peasant Movement (MOEC) • A anall guarrilla band encountered

by the colombian amy ta July 1963 we broken up when Live

members of the band were hilled and twe others captured. A

mill quantity of arus and a considerable mount of books and

parphlete on revoluttonary varfaze, photographa of Vidal Castro,

Camllo Clonfuegos and Mao T80-Cung»

and bulletins of the MEC

were found at the camp elte,

Recent seporte have indicated an

Increase in the terroriat efforte of the MOSC and Increased

promises of assletance fron the Guevara wich regard to the

training of addictonal MORt monbers.

Conco Ries

In mid-July an lacrensed mmber of guerrillas were

reportedly being trained in Coota Rica by Adollo Garcta Barberens,

well-krom Nicaraguan revolutionazy lender and member of the

ILI (Mattonal Libaration Front - a Comunist-doninated, Cubar-

supported, anti-Nicaragua revolutionary group). 'In early

August, Albarto Serrato, leader of the FLI in Costa Rica, loit

mich s

group of Nicaraguane for the Coats Rcan-Icaraguan

border.

The purchase of cans and supplies and the recrittent

of Nicaraguans for a movanent agatnot Nicaragua are also reportedly

undeniay in Costa Rica.

Rector Bogances Zenora, Costa Riean agitator, left San Jose

In mid Auguot for the Micaraguan border to supervise the paenage

of NIcaraguan guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua.

Bogantes, who recently returned from attending the lay Bay

celebracione ta Cuba,

was assigned this responsibility by the

Costa Rican Cormulst Party:

Mondurae

The Honduran anued forces began to move against a group

of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against the Nicaraguan Govern-

ment and active in the vicinity of the Nicaraguan Monduron border.

The Nicaraguan National Guard has been conducting operations

on ice side of the border againet the inaurgents alaco July.

The dense jungle and difficult terrain, however, will impede the

efforts of both forces to eliminate the guezzillas.

ATHT

50955 DocId: 32423829 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECENT

- 5-

Infornacion on the guerrille force is scanty and

confleting.

It is apparently composed of members of the National

Liberation Front (ILl), a Communist-douloated and Cuban-supported

ravolutionary organization active primarily in Honduras and

Nicaragua since the fall of 1962.

The strength of the force

1€ not known.

Nicarague

A captured guerrilla of the PLI (lational Liberation

Trent - d Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported, antf-Nicaraguan

group) confessed that he was a member of a group of 46 who

entered Nicaxagua from Honduvas on 22 July, He said that chel

mission was to establish a base camp in the Isabella mountaine,

Department of Jinotegs, in order to indoctreinate the peasante

and to train them in guerrilla tactics. He aduitted that he

had received six months' guerrilla warfare training in Cüba and

chat

other FIN leaders had received similar craining.

He aleo

said thet the FLN training camp in Hondures was near El legarto,

on the Patuca River.

4. Transfer of Funds

3a9 tish Culane

In British Gulana,

Gulana Import-Export Corporation

(Gimpex) received a one million dollar advance payment deposited

by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation for goods to be dolivered to

Cube in the future.

Gimper has, in tum, loaned this money to

the Government of British Gulana. Cheddi Jagan's People's

Progresaive Party is the major Stockholder in Cipes. Mohanned

Kassim, Manager of Gimper, has indicated that Gimper will be

able to secure additional

loans fron Cuba In anounto sufficient

to tide the Jagen goverament over any foresecable criels.

was also reported that Cimpex plans to buy aircraft, space parts

and other machinery in the United States for reshipment to Cube,

General

Reports continue to be received from many places indicating

that the suitcase full of currency to still one of the most

common nethods used by the Cubans for transmitting funds for

use in supporting aubversive activities throughout the hemisphere.

Instances where such funds have been confiscated by the police

have occurred recently in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

50955 DocId: 32423829 Page 6

---

