# 198-10007-10029

## Page 1

198-10007-10029

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ARMY

198-10007-10029

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

CIA

C. TRACY BARNES

REPORT ON THE COLD WAR USE OF RADIO BROADCASTING BY CIA

DATE: 06/25/1953

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

RADIO BROADCASTING - CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 1, Folder 2. Memo from Barnes re: Report on the Cold War Use of Radio

Broadcasting by CIA.

JFK Ravian

Department of the Army EO 13526

Declassify D Exclude

• Exempt

Authority_

• Refer To _

Review Dare 2A0615 Bytestgan

v9.1

HH 50955

38

DocId: 32424022 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Security Information

25 June 1953

MEMORAN DUM FOR: (See distribution belos)

SUBJECT

Report On The Cold War Use of Radio Broadcasting by CIA

Lo We have made a complete survey of the use of radio broadcast

Inp. in the cold war mission of CIA. The essential parts of the report

and recormendations are contained in the attached memorandum dated

15 kay 1953 and entitled "Report On the Cold War Use of Radio Broadcast

ing by CIA". (Operational information and other sensitive matter con

rained in the original, but deleted from the attached, will be sep

arately supplied where appropriate to

the interested area divisions.)

2. The policy outlined in the attached memorandum has been approved

by the Deputy Director for Plans, who has directed the following actions:

bo Develoo and submit; in collaboration uith the appropriate

personnel and training offices, a plan for the recruitment and

training of officers qualified for covert broadcasting operations.

Co. Explore with the State Department the possibilities of a

joint undertaking to exploit full?, in the interest of efficiency

and economy, material derived from escapee interrogations and other

intelligence sources, covert as well as overt, to support

all Uoso

propaganda efforts.

do Develop and recommend, in collaborstion with area diviains,

an improved method for the issuance and dissemination of policy

•guidance to the field.

3o Chief of Op rations,

SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: DooId:32421022 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRIT

Security Information

3o Chief of Operations, DD/P, has authorized the circulation of

the atrached material with the request, that you cooperate in the carrring

out of the DD/p's directive. Particular attention is called to item 2o a.

Lo Mro C. Lloyd Igner, assisted by Mr

nive

• been assigned the responsibility for staff coordination of these matters

on behalf of CPP and will be availahle to you for assistance in planning

and sunnorting broadcasting onerations.

Is/ C. Tracy Barnes

C. TRACY LARM S

Chief.

Political and Psychological

werfare

Attachment

As stated above

Distribution

DT/P - 1

ADC0 - 1

Chiefs, All Areas - 1 ea.

Chiefs, Senior Staffs - 1 ea.

?/1° - 1

P*/C/OPS - 1

FF/CFY

E*/C/PAD - 1

F'/Mr. Fenur - 2

RI

NW 50955 DocId: 32424022

Page 3•

SE

CRIT

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Security Information

15 May 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: CITIE, POLITICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL VARFARE

SUBJECT

• Report On The Cold War Use of Radio Broadcasting by CIA

Attached hereto is our report on CIA radio broadcasting as a cold

war weanor. It is grouped into the following sections:

I. Section 1, Page 1, deals with RADIO AS A MIDIUM IN TIL, COLD LAB.

It shous in the main that the countries having the most to fear from

Comminism are doing the lcast to counter its radio propaganda.

2. Section 2, Page 2, deals with CAPABILITIS. It embraces a.

discussion of the techniques available to ciA.

3a Section 3, Page 3, discusses broad TARGUTS and appraises our

current and planned activities a ainst them.

4o Section 4s Page la deals with the principal PROFLEMS pecullar

to covertly directed broadcasting, and their solution.

activities in this field.

(The original "Report On The Cold War Use of Radio Broadcasting

By CIA,"

from which this document is excerpted, was dated 15 May 1953,

TS 884650)

/s/ Co Lloyd Lgner

C. LLOYD LONTR

Attachnent, as statedo

PP/CLE: ha

NH 50955 DocId: 32424022 Page 4

SECRLT

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Security Information

15. May 2953

REPORT ON TIE COLD WAR USE OF RADIO BROADCASTING BY CIA

Radio As & Mediun in the Cold Wer

& The USSR and its satellites, including China, broadeast

to countries outside the Orbit 1,395 hours per week of aggressive psych

olegical warfare.

bo

The free world responds with 1,015 hours per weok.

Co

This gives the enemy a numerical advantage of approximately

seven to five, In roslity, the Comunist advantage Is much greater

bocause of their successful interference with free world broadcasts to the

Orbit through jamming and the penalties they impose on their own peoples

for listening to foreign broadcasts. It is estimated that these measures

reduce the effectiveness of free world broadcasts to the Orbit by as much,

If not more than, 50 percent.

An illustration is that the Communists

devote an estimated 900 transmitters to the jamming of free world broad-

casts.

There is no jamming of Orbit broadcasts. to the western world, nor

any restrictions on listening to them.

di Only the English speaking world holds its own mmerically in

the over-all radio war with the Orbit. VOA, BBC and Canada together

broadcast 238 hours per week arainst the Orbit; whereas the Orbit countries

combined direet 222 hours per week to Finglish language audiences in North

America, the United Kingdom, and the Pacific area.

favor of the Commnists. They broadcast 1, 173 jam-free hours to all

one co the con

* In the rest of the world, the balance is drastically in

other countries around the world in miltiple languages, compared with &

mere 26h hours broadcast to all Orbit countries by non-English speaking

nations of the free worid,

of the total of 1,015 broadcast hours beamed by all the free

world to the Orbits I through TPICNIC and other quasi-clandestine

stations, breadcasts 513 hours, or more than half, in the name of exiles

from Communist dominated areas.

Éo Tho greatest disparity in efford is most noticeable in

Western Durope.

France, which receives 89 hours of broadcasts per week

from the Orbit as i whole, responds with only 35 to the Orbito Italy

receives 97 hours from the Orbit but broadcasts only lu to it, Spain 94

to 12, Grecco 89 to 9, Turkey 34 to 7 Even relatively aggressive

Yugoslavia receives 19l broadcast hours from the Orbit against its output

to the Orbit of only 89 hours.

ho The one-sided

SECRET

H7 50955 DocId: 32424022 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Security Information

ho The one-sided contest is even more marked in a comparison

of the broadcast.output of the USsR alone, without the satellites,

against Furope.

It subjects Spain, Greece and Italy together, for

instance, to 140 hours of broadcasts per week. The combined broadcasts

the USSi, make no broadcasts at all to the USSR. •

Io Appendix I gives a compilation by country or area of the

international broadcasts to and from USSR and the satellites. It shows

that the Communists are outslugging the free world, and that western

Europe, in particular, is doing far legs than it should in the radio

propaganda battle with the Orbit.

2. Capabilities

• ...

Several techniques, are available to CIA for the use of radio

broadeasting in its covert psychological warfare mission.

ae overt international broadcasting on fixed iraquencies I

This technique rormally

would be calculated to reach wide audiences by means of high power and

the use of multiple frequencies; but it invites heavy jamming, is costly

and presents security, control and political problems in the acquisition

and maintenance

of suitable bases and frequency allocations.

religious broadcasts. * **

lovert nonpolitical, but anti-comminist,

problems concerning

SECRET

NN 50955 DocId: 32424022 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

security Information

•***

d:, Use of purchased or free tine

en existing radio systens in friendly countries. *v*

NY 50955

USSR Radio is the only consistent medium for pierc

ing the Soviet iron curtain

It is estimated that there are approsi.

mately 4,000,000 receiving sets in the USSR, of which 75 to 80 per

cent are believed to be equipped with frequency bands capable of

receiving foreign shortwave broadcasts.

Virtually ald of them readily

receive long and mediun wave signals.

Not all of these receivers are

in the hands of

DocId: 32124022 Page 7

SEGRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

security Information

In the hands of private individuals, however; and the number of those

having access to shortave receivers is estimated to be constantly

decreasing que to Soviet efforts to increase grop listening by means

of wired networks.

Nevertheless, it would appear that there will be a

sizeable potential audience for forelin broadcasts in all three

wae bands for sona time to come. One indication of this is the

faet that at present the USSR is broadcasting approsimately 900 hours

per day over 160 transmitters in 26 or more languages to its oun people,.

Many of these transmissions are to areas and over frequencies which lie

within our transnitting capabilitics.

Our assets for exploiting this potential audience,

including projects still in the planning stage, are far from adequate.

Do Cosmunist China. -Lice the USSR, the Comminist goverament

of Chine relies heavily on radio broadcasting fos communication with

the people. It utilizes more than 50 rational and regional stations

for this purpose, operating chiefly on mediun and long wave but to

some extent, also, on shortwave. "#*

****

European Satellites The proponderance of CiA broad»

casting efforts are centered on this area.'#""

The Free World. Many countries afford opportunities

for relatively inexpensive exploitation by covert penetration of

indigenous broadcasting systems and use of free or purchased time. * * *

(See Para. 2.do)

HW 50955

DocId: 32424022 Page B

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Security Information

(3) The VOA presently controls numerous broadcasting

bases and are develoning additional bases, in areas of the world

The necessary agreements wich host

countrios have already been negotiateds nover, housine. tranantia

tion and other-logistics have been provided.

eo Information Support

(1)

lo supplesent available normal news sourees,

broadcasting to Orbit countries

Is depandent for program material

upon intelligence

SECRET

NN 30950 D0010: 32424022 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

, Security Information

d. Jo Deliver a Signal, That Can Bo Heard

(1) Soviet jamming of propaganda broadcasts raises

serious questions concerning our ability to deliver a signal. that

To be sure, some of our broadcasts

get through because they are unable simultaneously to jam broadeasts

in all areas nor do they in practice fan a given broadcast trang-

mission at all hours.

For future plarning purposes, howeves, these factors

seem clear:

(a) Soviet capabilities for jarming are large and

on the increase.

(b) The degree of their jamming seens to be re

lated to their estimate of the harmful effect of the broadcasts on

their interests. Hence, the more effective parts of our propaganda

are likely to be janned even though other parts get through.

(c) We have no present capabilities to monitor

theis jarming if they usuals they probably do in congested areas

loy-powered local jammers.

(2) Prudent planning would, therefore, require that

any substantial future investments by CIA in radio broadcasting

transmitters include provision for all possible techniques to ensure

our broadeasts being heard to the maximum in spite of jarming.

(3) What techniques

NN 50955 DocId: 32424022 Page 10

= 6=

SECIE

• T

---

## Page 11

SECRET

Security Information

(3) What techniques are available to meet this require

ment?

(s) To deliver a signal of such power as to be

heard above the jarming.

Here we are at a disadvantage in thats

lot powered and inespensive local

jammer is capable of rendering

unintelligible & signal of substantially higher power from a distant

point.

The greater the power of our transmitter the more complicated

the installation and the more expensive the investment. And the more

difficult becomes

Since the

eneny is not required to equal. our pover with his jammers, we would

therefore be fighting a losing battle if we attempted to

"slug 1t outf

on a power basis only.

(b)

Jarming evasion through the device of vary

ing the frequency has so far proven to be an effective means of lay..

ing down a signal that can be heard clearly despite janing. This

method requires constant dial changing by the listener and must

assume therefore a desire on his part to hear the program sufficient

to overcome the annoyance of dial twisting. When used in combination

with appropriate progranning techniques and the use of two or nore

frequencies simultaneously this has so far proven to be the most

effective means of jenning avoidance:

Our broadcasts using this technique have so

far avoided annoyance to friendly countries by the use of very low

This linits us to a small part of the total Soviet Orbit

target and that only on the periphery.

The same techniques can be

used with higher power and at greater distances from the target.

To avold interference with friendly nations! broadeasts the base

must be located in an area which, with the proper antenna adjust

ments, permits our signal to "skip" over the territory of friendly

countries in its path. An examole would be thats given a transmitting

base in Saudi Arabia for broadcasts to the USSR, the facility would

have to be engineered so that its signal sould not interfere with

local broadeast reception in Turkey and other friendly countries in

between.

(e) The development of unconventional broadcasting

techniques for

HN 50955 DooId: 32124022 Page 11

SECR

I T

---

## Page 12

Security Intomation

techniques for the penetration of enemy domestic radio broadcasting

serrices might well enable us to overcone the handicaps imposed by

the jaming of our conventional broadcasts to the Soviet orbit and

seize the cold war initiative in the radio sphere. It is a field

which has been neglected thus far

"This would be an effective and annoying

technique which would be extremely difficult to counter."

Utilization of this technique appears to be

within our capabilities at the moment. It has been field tested

and is ready for use an soon as the necessary technical adaptations

can be made to conventional transmitters. The time and cost involved

in mounting a facility for utilizing this technique is now being

explored by ADCO at the suggestion of this office.

Other unconventional means of carrying the

cold war to the Orbit by means of clandestine radio might be cap-

able of invention and development, and the scientific and practica

potentialities in this field should be explored to the utmost.

This office is convinced that emphasis must

be placed more and more on unconventional radio broadcasting tech-

niques if the cold war of the air waves is not to become more one-

sided than it already is

in favor of the Communists. Properly davel-

oped and utilized, those techniques already perfected or in the pro

cess of perfection and those which might be invented might even be

the means of

= 8=

SECRET

NN 50955 DooId: 32124022 Page 12

---

## Page 13

S-E-C-R-E-T

Security. Information

the means of shifting the whole radio propaganda war balance in our

favor. They would be indispensable in the event of hot war.

therefore, are impressed with the necessity of developing our capaci

ties in this direction to the utmost and proceeding immediately with

the covert procurement of bases and equipment noeded for the taak.

Load Time

(J) (a) Radio broadeasting facilities cannot be created

over night.

fron the time that plans are finally approved, it takes

12 to 18 months to design, construct and install a transmitter.

Prior to such

approval time is sequired for the planning eycle, negot

tion for bases, the staffing problem, ete.

(2) 121 In all, it would be prident to ostinate that

upwards of two years are reguired from the conception of a project

for broadcasting and its implementation. Hence, the planning mist

be long range.

It is not possible to improvise broadcasting capabil

itles for targets of opportunity, such as Stalin's death.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NN 50955 DooId: 32424022 Page 13

---

## Page 14

S-F-CoR-E-T

Security Information

Go Evaluation.

(1) In the Preliminary Survey of Radio Broadcasting

(25 February: 1953--IS 86889) -attention was called to the need for a

continuing evaluation of all radio broadeasting operations with partic

alar reference to coverage and impact, and sources for the essential

Information were outlined.

(2) PP/OPS, In collaboration with this office, has

Initiated this much-needed undertaking.

ho Personnel

There is a shortage of professional and technical

personnel qualified for covert radio broadcasting.

A program of

selective recruitnent should be undertaken in coordination with any

plane for new radio projects.

(2) A training program in covert broadcastina techniones

should also be initiated:

50

Recormendation:

Pending clarification of CIA's future responsibility in the

cold war we have made certain assumptions as to the criteria wich

should govern agency activities 18 radio broadcasting.

Our thesis is that CIA should use radio broadcasting in

covert Psychological Warfare only under the following conditions:

That the tack cannot be performed by YOA or other

overt media.

S-E-C-A-E-T

HH 50955

DocId: 32421022 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Security Infornation

Within this frame of reference we made the following

recomendations:

(2) Proceed to exploit the many possibilities to

us, Indigenous rario systems in friendly and neutra. nations with the

objectives of (a) increasing the mount and elfectiveness of thair

propaganda efforts against USSR and the satellites,

(b) exposing and

1uhibiting Commun'st Piith column activities and (6) the maintenance

if pro-u.s.. and pro-lestem attitudes.

These missions should be undertaken in closest

collaboration with the USIs missions to the end that all that can be

accomplished overlay

(2) Undertake a recruitment and training progran to

make availabe highly qualified and thoroughly indoctrinated officers

preferably with-natural cover to undertake and to support such nissions.

(3) In coopera ion with State, devalop a positive

program for information support of all propaganda aetivities throngh

marian use of intelligence and defeetor sources.

(1) Strengthon and streanline the machinery for

polley guidance,

win washington headguarters sesponsible for broad

policy only and the flold missions to be given the widest poasible

latitude in the application of those policies to local requirements

and the esploitation of targots de opportunity. A mature staff officer

arperienced in PW should be available in the mission to (a) lead

propaganda lines, (p) expedite PoW. support (e) coordinate with USIS

and (d) generally

RH 50955 DocId:32424022 Page 15

SE - I-T

---

## Page 16

S-E-C-R-E-T

Security Information

and (d). generally. backstop the operation.

(5) Establiah machinery for evaluating the substance,

coverage, Impact and management of radio operations.

(6) Proceed with the development of capabilities to

electionically incrude upon and otherise explott the Commist radio

broadessting to their on and foreign audiences. Id le Important to

have those facilities reacy at the earliest possible date for possible

use in the cold war. lot to have then available at the outbreals of

hot war would be a tragle mistake.

# + # *

Lote: Recommendations with respect to spectric

targets have been trannitted to the appropriate

division

(10) A snail staff element should be created to

supervise CIA planning and operationa in eevert radio broadeasting.

This stall should be instructed to expedite the implementation of

the above recamendations and provide a continuing sovien of CIA

Polley and Progran for the use of thie Media.

/s/C. lloyd Egner

C. LLOYD EGNER

35 May 1953

-120

SE-C-R-Ey

H77 50955

DooId: 32424022

Page

16

---

