# 198-10006-10009

## Page 1

198-10006-10009

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ARMY

198-10006-10009

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

JCS

CUBA - THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS

DATE: 03/00/1963

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

COUNTERING CUBAN PROPAGANDA

CUBAN SUBVERSION

PROPAGANDA MEDIA

KRULAK COMMITTEE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 11. Krulak Committee's paper on the movement of Cuban propaganda.

JFK Reurew

Department of the Army EO 13526

BE Declassify

• Exclude E Exempt

Authority_

• Refer To.

Rever To 8/17/201587 Ken tren

NO STATE OBJECTION

O DECLASSIFICATION

3У DATE I 19/1

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION.

TO DECLASSIFICATION

DATE:

MAR

2016

v9.1

HW 50955

DooId: 32423824

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

NH 50955

DocId: 32423821

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MR CALIFANO MARKED

LOpy FROM 15 MAR

SECRET

CUBA

THE MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS

SECRET

GROUP-1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

NH

50955

DocId: 32423824

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.. Introduction ---

II. Nature and Scope of the Problem

III.

Direct Actions to Impede Legal Movement

of Propaganda Materials-

-

1. Political Actions

2. Intelligence Actions

3. Covert Actions

IV. Direct Actions to Impede Illegal Movement

of Propaganda Materials

on one.

1. Intelligence Actions

2. Surveillance and Reporting Action - -

3. Political Action

4. Technical Assistance Actions

PAGE

1

1

4

4

5

6

7

7

7

7

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423824

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

CUBA

MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA MATERIALS

I. Introduction

The actions proposed herein are designed to impede

the movement of Communist propaganda materials from Cuba

to and within Latin American countries.

They complement

the basic actions relating to control

of movement of sub-

versive trainees to and from Cuba, which actions are gen-

erally applicable in the solution of this problem as well.

but will not eliminate it entirely.

Communist Cuba has many legitimate outlets through

which propaganda materials flow.

As these legitimate

outlets are blocked by

the initial steps herein proposed,

it will be necessary for the Cuban propagandists and their

sympathizers

elsewhere to turn from the mass exportation

of materials to the production and dissemination of the

same materials in a clandestine environment within the

several Latin American countries. Of the two threats, the

illicit production of propaganda materials in each country

will be by far the more difficult to abate.

In combatting these threats, one of the most power-

ful factors is the influence of our own information and

counter-propaganda efforts, which USIA and CIA have in-

creased greatly during the past two years.

This paper,

however, is concerned wholly with direct actions; actions

designed to impede the movement of propaganda materials

to and within Latin America.

II. Nature and. Scope of the Problem

While the Castro image has faded somewhat in Latin

America, and the attraction of Cuba as a model has dimin-

ished, the susceptibility of the Latin American people to

communist propaganda remains high.

The basic social and

economic factors which have made this true in the past

have not greatly altered, and the variety and quantity of

propaganda materials with which the Latin Americans are

impressive, as exemplified in the one hun me

aned milliongdollars which the communists are estimated to

be investing

In the project annually. It is a large pro-

gram and it presents

a continuing threat to the tran-

quility of Latin America.

SECRET

HH 50955 Dold: 32423824 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Our efforts to combat the problem, moreover, are

complicated by the fact that freedom of

ion and press

thought,

express

are generally highly regarded in Latin

America, albeit not universally honored, and any proposals

to reduce the flow of Castro-Communist subversive materials

must be influenced by this fact. Otherwise the United

States may find itself indicted for fostering police-.

state methods, a charge which could alienate many of the

Latin Americans we seek to influence.

For the purpose of this paper, propaganda materials

include radio program scripts, tapes

and recordings, printed

materials, posters, pamphlets,

magazines, leaflets,

books,

newspapers, news service output, motion pictures, dupli-

cating or reproducing equipment, electronic communications

equipment, and printing resources, particularly paper stock-

However, to be complete, "movement of propaganda

materials"

must extend also to publications which are hand-

carried into a country by legal or illegal travellers for

subsequent reproduction.

It must also include materials

transmitted through Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic

propaganda

guidance. by

individual travellers or by Radio

Havana, and the dissemination of communist oriented news

by Prensa Latina, the official Cuban news agency, for re-

production by local outlets.

Finally to be considered are

thematic guidance, which

can be reproduced and exploited

locally by returning trainees, front groups and sympathetic

publications and, in some countries such as Mexico, Argen-

tina and Uruguay,

the products of those commercial

estab

lishments which regularly print or broadcast pro-Castro-

Communist materials as a matter of policy or ideological

conviction.

Press and Publications

There are 326 Communist and pro-Communist newspapers

and periodicals in Latin America, and infiltration of the

democratic press, coupled with the non-critical attitudes

of some newspapermen, increases greatly the diffusion of

the Cuban propaganda line.

There are 228 Communist-oriented

publishing houses and bookstores in Latin America, serving

as, outlets not only for 30 different Cuban periodicals, but

for a large variety of other Communist printed material.

SECRET

2

NH 50955 DocId: 32423824 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

Every Latin American country except the Dominican

Republic, Paraguay, Nicaragua, and Venezuela permits

these bookshops to operate.

Many of them offer publi-

cations at very low prices or give away several books

with the purchase of one, and easy credit terms are

available.

Excluding TASS and the New China News Agency (NONA),

Prensa Latina is the principal.Communist news agency in

Latin America.

It operates openly, although not entirely

without restriction, in ten countries -- Bolivia, Brazil,

Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico,

Panama and Uruguay. While most users of Prensa Latina

releases are covert or overt Communists, some non-Communist

media make unattributed use of Prensa Latina releases.

This is especially true of radio broadcasts.

All of this publication activity is essentially

overt.

However, decrees

banning Communist propaganda

have not prevented the clandestine publications and distri-

bution of periodicals and books in some countries, and

propaganda materials continue to seek entry through the

In Panama, for example, postal and customs authori-

destroy an average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda per

Another ten tons per month is seized and destroyed

This suggests the further quantities, per-

haps larger, may be finding their way into these and

other

countries.

Radio

Short wave radio is the principal direct mass audience

medium used by Cuba to carry subversive propaganda to Latin

America. The Castro regime has constantly increased Radio

Havana's short wave broadcasts to Latin America to a current

level of 115:30 hours per week.

Cultural Activities

Penetration under the guise of cultural activities 1s

a favored Communist propaganda technique in Latin America,

where there are now some 64 Cuban binational centers and

Friendship Societies.

SECRET

3

NH 50955

DooId: 32423824 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

mer

F1lms

Feature films and short documentaries produced by the

Cuban Institute of Motion Picture Art and Industry play a

direct propaganda role.

These films are shown primarily in

binational centers, pro-Communist labor and student groups;

and in private or clandestine meetings.

It will be seen from this brief review that Latin

America is the target of a broad-scale propaganda program,

comprising not only propaganda materials but including

also the ideas, the knowledge and the resources which are

necessary to make those materials effective.

III, Direct Actions to Impede the Legal Movement of

Propaganda Materials

Presented below is a summary of actions contemplated

to impede the legal movement of propaganda materials from

Cuba to and within Latin American countries.

For the pur-

pose of this paper, legal movement is defined as movement

by recognized private and governmental carriers and communi-

cations; as well as postal systems and diplomatic pouching.

actions offer promise of achieving early and

effective results in some Latin American countries, but

they do not have universal application, and those

which may

be feasible in one country may not be necessary or feasible

in another.

• 1. Political Actions

fear

a. Induce

newspapers in countries in which Prensa

Latina operates to cancel their subscriptions to the

service. I Like Amera Nearnedic

b. Persuade those governments which receive Cuban

and Bloc diplomatic missions to maintain close

surveillance over the propaganda activities of the

Communist embassies with a view toward prohibiting

abuses of diplomatic privilege for subversive pur-

poses.

c. As applicable and feasible, induce Latin

American countries

to%

CR

cp

SECRET

4

NW 50955 DocId: 32423824 Page B

---

## Page 9

SECRET

(1) Adopt adequate internal security legislation

to provide severe penalties for any person engaging

in dissemination of Cuban-Communist propaganda

which inspires terrorism or proposes the overthrow

of the legal government by force and violence.

(2) Preclude attendance of Cuban delegates at

International meetings held in Latin América.

(Delegates are propaganda disseminators.)

2. Intelligence Actions

a. Continue U.S, intelligence efforts in each

country to identify individuals, organizations and

facilities involved in propaganda importation,

reproduction and/or dissemination; make available to

each country selected intelligence concerning these

individuals, organizations and their activities.

b. Encourage each country in which the Communist

Party is 1llegal to offer rewards for information

leading to interception of Castro-Communist propa-

ganda and, in countries where the Communist party is

legal, for conviction of persons supplying or

disseminating propaganda materials considered dan-

gerous

to the country's tranquility.

c, In separate diplomatic approaches to each

country, urge full and effective cooperation, with

the appropriate organs of the OAS and bilaterally

among the several nations, in the interchange of

information concerning movement of propaganda

materials.

d. Persuade Latin American countries to report

promptly to the diplomatic mission. of the country

concerned, the identity of any national of that

country who arrives from Cuba and who is discovered

to have been carrying Communist propaganda materials.

3. Covert Actions

a. Disrupt the reproduction and distribution of

propaganda materials, and the procurement

• and delivery

of related supplies

and equipment.

CR

C

R

out

CR

CR

CR

SECRET

5

NH 50955

DocId: 32423824 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

e. Dissuade U.S. and local business firms from

informing

advertising in Latin American media which carry pro-

Communist materials; prepare and eirolate to U.S:

firms, for information, lists of such media in order

to encourage their support of a non-Communist press.

f. Inhibit the spread of Cuban and Bloc binational

centers and Friendship Societies in Latin America by

an active program to expose their subversive activities

and objectives.

-New

Wolve

a deterined Mes

Provide fInancial support to selected non-

Communist news media requiring assistance in order

to compete with Communist-aligned publications which

have significant circulation or impact..

justified by tr

Cockle profeld,

IV.

Direct Actions to Impede Illegal Movement of

Propaganda Material

Many of the actions outlined in Section III related

to the legal movement of materials will serve also to

restrict illegal movement.

Additional measures designed

specifically to impede clandestine traffic

enumerated

below.

SECRET

6

NH 50955 DocId: 32423824 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

1. Intelligence Actions

a. Use penetration and other intelligence techniques

to identify efforts to move propaganda materials from

Cuba to and/or within Latin American countries; deter-

mine routes and methods employed; report selected

information, consistent with requirements for protect-

ing our own

intelligence program, to the governments

concerned.

b. Utilize the U.S. intelligence community to

determine the nature

and extent of clandestine air

craft and

small boat traffic: between Cuba and other

countries in the Caribbean and Central American area, pol

giving particular attention to Mexico, Honduras,

Jamaica, Haiti and the Dominican Republic. Use the

evidence obtained to induce the governments concerned

to initiate surveillance and other control measures

aimed at interception of propaganda materials:

2. Surveillance and Reporting Action

Exploit the mechanism of the Caribbean surveillance

system, approved by the President in the study on

movement of personnel, for discovering and impeding

the movement of propaganda materials by 11licit means•

3. Political Action

Where legally feasible to do so, induce each Latin

American country to improve its police procedures

designed to expose the subversive Communist propaganda

apparatus in that country; and to detect and eliminate

corrupt officials who permit 11licit shipment of

propaganda materials

4. Technical Assistance Actions

a. Provide technical assistance, where requested eR

to enable Latin American governments to locate

clandestine transmitters.

b. Assist in the accelerated Improvement of the

capabilities of Latin American internal security

forces, especially those patrol and intelligence

activities whose function is the prevention of clan-

destine propaganda activities.

Provide equipment,

training and advice as required.

SECRET

7

NN 50955

DocId: 32423824 Page 11

---

