# 198-10009-10098

## Page 1

198-10009-10098

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10009-10098

RECORD SERIES :

CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.

TO :

MULTIPLE

TITLE:

ICCCA: REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER

SUBVERSION

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS:

ICCCA - SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

CUBAN SUBVERSION

RESTRICTIONS ON TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA

SUBCOMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 25. Memo from Califano to Wheeler, Sloan, Alger, Wendt, Carpenter,

Quilter re: attached paper concerning status of implementation of actions designed to counter Cuban

subversion.

JFKReurew

one in 1/4/2181 Kustren

19.1

HH 50955

DocId: 32424708

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

26 NOV 1963

Math

OH NO. 81 FOR GENERAL EARLE G. WHEELER (CCS)

(Regional Altaíro)

MAJOR GENERAL I D. ALGIE, USA

BEAR ADIDAL W. P. A. WENDI, USM

MAICE CUNERAL I W, CARPENTER, IL, DEAD

BRIGADIER GENERAL G. I. QUILTER, USUC

SUBJEOT:

Isterdopertmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:

Report on Stato of Implementation of Actions Denigned to

Counter Fubversion (U)

Deference:

Da 30n46%, cubjoct as abort, dated Septeraber 19, 1963

Attached heretth to a final trait of the Report to the Precident of

the Subcommittes en Cubon Subvorsion on Progress liade During September

1963 in Curbtas Cuban tubveroion la Latin America.

It to requested that commento, Many, be provided this office by

1200 bonzo, 2 December 1963. The Dapartment of Defesse portion of

mabject report is based on subreissions provided in response to referanced

Signed

Josapn A. Califano, Jro

Joseph A, Calliano. Jr.

Genezal. Cozasel

Enclosere

As Stated

CC:

Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)

It Col Hai gi.

Mr. Califano

ASG

OSA, ASC Control N0.2707H

NH 50955 DocId: 32121708 Page 2

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING

DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

---

## Page 3

DRAFT

11/13/63

SECRET

BAZORE OU THE SUE-COMITTEE

On CURAL SUBVERSION

AOTTON TAREN

DURUNG SEETEERE 1963 IN CURING

CURANT SXEVERSION IN LATIN AVERICA

ECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

DRAFT

11/13/63

I, Control of Iravel to and Trom Caba

of State

=.:.

Instructed Embassy Junis to call to the accention

of the Foreign Miniatry oue concern at increased evidence

of Aeroflot attempts to establlsh North Africa routes to

Cuba, especially through Algeria, and our conviction that

Tunisia has a valld case in trarting suy Bloe civil air

penetration of Africa.

Ba Instructed Babesey Conalay to contact Guinean Govera-

ment officials, reninding chen of their past assurances

chat so heroflot flights to Cuba vould be permitted to

use Conakry facilities, and to express our conser at

recent indications that deroflot was preparing to establish

service to Caba via Conakry -

Instructed Consulate Fort au France to Investigate

and report on alleged landing and refuelling of Cubane

aircraft at Guadeloupo. Aleo double checked directly

with she Shell Copany, the supplier of the fuel.

Inctructed Embassy Paris to query the French Covertuent

about alleged Culana une of the Guadeloupe facility. and

to express osy concer at this evidence of Cuba"s attent

to uọc Izench Caribbean dependencies for flights to and

FION

NH 50955 DocId: 32424709 Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECEST

2

fron latin America:

d.

Instzucted Inbasay No to make & new approach to

the Frazillan Foreign Ministry to express our concom

at Cuba's continuing use of "charter" flights to Brazil

and the laxity of Erezillan ofElolala in the control of

passengers.: During the course of the nonch the brazillan

Coverment bogan tightening controle ngainst Subana

flighte, Specifically, all requeste fes landing permission

were henceforch to be procesed by the Foreign Office,

with spproprlate delayo. Miso tighter passenger, crew

and cargo controls vere to be instituted whon a Cubana

flight 1s permitted to uso Bracili Escilitles..

C. Daternined that the U,k, had apoolfically warned

Subra that so aviation fuol vas avallable in Barbados and

that 1.11,G, would, la the fucure, respect Shell Coupany's

decision to deny fucling to Cubana planes.

£. Contined Inter-Departmontal elforte to prevent

resumption of fory sorice bacucer Cuba and the U.S.

which a ariclon citiacn, Harold Derber, lis been accent

Ing to eccablish during the past several nonth.

SEORE

HH 50955 DocId:32424708 Page 5.

---

## Page 6

3

Instructed Consul Georgetomi to Invostigate and

report on evidence the Deparinent received which Indicates

that Caba is planning to sell merchant vessels to British

Gulam in order to facilitate the establishment of

regular service for passengers and cargo.

Central, Intellinense Arency

a. In connection with the Seventh Congress of the

International Union (UlA) held 1a Habana Septenber 29 -

October 3, 1953 the Buenos Area Scation:

•(1) encouraged the Argentine Kational Federation

of Architects to oppose Argeatine attendance as the

Habane meeting, with the recult that 25 of che 39

practicing architects uto had planned to attend can-

called their participation;

(2) arranged to prevent the attendance of any

officially nuthorized Argentine delegacion at the Habana

meeting, but encouragod the artendance of an official

Argentine delegacion of anti-Cominiac coloration at en

international erchitecta mecting to be held in Mexico

15 Doteber;

(3)

SECRET

MH 50955 DocId:32421708 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECREE

(3) delivered a memorendum to the Minister of

Interior concerning Cuban charter flights to Brazil which

supported the Ambassador's request that the Argentine

governeat express concern over such flights.

bo Rio de Janeiro Station continued to furnish

the Embassy with data on Cubana flights to bravil used

in representations to the Brazilian Foreign Office.

Also induced Mio airport ofticiale to impose stringent

passport control and bagange efforts. These efforts

contributed to the brazilian Covernment's falling to

issue landing pernits fer Cubana flights on September

21, 24 and 25, 1963 forcing their cancellation.

Wher

Bulants because of harasmen at Rio, began using the

Landing facilitics la Sao Paulo shere controls were

son eststent, CIA luiclated and obtainod a local liaison

agrecnent for sinilar harassmat in the event of future

Cubana flights to Sas Faulo.

Mexico City station inspired & press campaiga

of hoof and mouth and smallpos epidenies in Cuba, prior

to the Architects Congreso to discourage participation

an the labase nesting. The rasulting quarantines and

Inoculations

SECRET

• NH 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

5

Innoculations were a factor in discouraging 52 of che

69 Mexican professional architects who were expected to

30

to Habana fron attending the Congress.

Control of Noremant of Procesanda

NW 50955 DocId: 32424709 Page B

---

## Page 9

• 6

Cantral of Clandestine Borment of Guessillas

1038313

Darre

EDE DE SEALE

Nade the necessary arcangements through Imbassy

Teguchgalpa with she Coveriment of Honduras for the

dispatch of three U,3, belicopters to give logistical

assistance to the Fonduran Army In its effort to locaze

and climinace the band of guerrillas allegedly operating

12s the Fatsca River area along tho Honduran-Micaraguan

border

oh. Defense

Three 01-l helicoptere fron USCOUTECOd supported

Honduran arued forces conducting counter-Ineurgency

operetions in. the Facaca Biver Ecca.

& totas o2 21 80rtlea

were flown resulting in delivery of 3228 pounda of supples:

evacuacion of 12 sick loadaran soldiers, airlist of 19

pascengers to rolats in the operational erea, and

recovery

of 400 pounds of supplies from the operational

3x Cus

IV.:

SECRET

NY 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 9

---

## Page 10

IV.

Control of Trancier of Funde

Renantment of State

2. Instructed Enbcosy Mexico City to Infonz the

Mexican airline SAESA that thale proposal to purchase

surplus Cuban aircraft nould in fact resule in the

accrual to Cubs of a alimidloant anount of hard curreacy.

and the U.S. would have to oppose the transactior.

Furcher, 19 dollare were involves is the purchase,

In pould be a violation of the Cuban Assets Control

Regulations.

Do.

Intorned Department of Treasury, Foreign Assets

Centrol Olfice, of the activicies of Scuondelp Entezprises,

a Kland fim engaged in sending ronittances to persons

In Cats da violation of the Cuben Ascets Control

Regulations.

Instructed Conculate, Belize to inform

Mr. Alchoza Joyce,

an Americon national, that his

commercial transactions with Cuba vore in violation

o$ cho Cuban Asseto Control Regulations and that he

is prohlbited fron engaging in such trade.

HH 50955. DocId:32424708: Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECES

V. Strenchanton dE Counter

Departnent of Defense

Thirteen latin Anerican officers sraduated fron

the counter-Insurgency Operations Course of the U.3.

Azay School for Lotin Amnica in Ela Panana Canal. Zone

on 20 Septomber. Duzing the month, & total of 9i Latin

American officers encolled in courses stressing counter

insurgency at the Azuy Canal Zone school.

Eight U.S. Arny counter-inousgeney mobile

training teans were providing training to the Armed

Foreco of Live Latin American countries during the period.

U.S. Al- Force counter-insurgency training teams were

in too countries.

Ca In the Canal Zone, 15 students fron five countries

were under instruction in the operacion of coast suard

atality patrol craft used for coastal surveillance.

31x scudents fron tuo comtries were undezgoing similar

training in the Unitedescates

6. A U.5. Navy comter-insungency training team

is in Venczuala to assiss in improving the cecsrity

of oil installationa in Lake Maracalbo.

NH 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECREE

Costa Rica and Honduras were provided one

Getsas 185 alzcraft each for medical clule setion and

Internal security purposes.

On May 25, 1933, three M-43B KAMAN helicoptere

wore provided to the sovernment of Colombia on a 90-1sy

The Coloubian Coverment requested an extension

of the loen and a 90-day entension has boor approved.

Concral Intel 22ence 132192

VI.

AH. 50955

. DocId: 32421708 • Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECREC

-: 10

VI.

man o: intel linence on Cubin Subuestion

nt ni Defense

Ingineering lostallation vork continued on radio

etations for Managus, Nicaragua and legucigalpa,

Hondures..

to further progress has been made in roaching

agrements wich Colombia and Icuador for rights to

establiah radio stations in those countries. Installation

of the new trans-lotimian commorcial cable in Panana .

da zenrios complecion.

96022241

Cia Scations continuad thete exchange of Intelligence

intomation wich local intelliguce Agencies.

Ibe

folloving accions ase of special significance:

:: :

NH: 50955 DocId: 3202 Getolrade 13

---

## Page 14

NY -50955 DocId:32421708 Page 14

The

...

---

## Page 15

VIde

Chan Unlomtic. Comercial end Cultural

Missione

special actions to reporte

VIL.

HHT

50955 • DocId: 32424708

Page.

15

SBORET

---

## Page 16

-134

VIl. CEser Special Actiong

Inited Starce Information Agener

The Agency"s press semice tranenitted seven

acticles velacing to Cubon subversion on

its wirelesa

file service to USIS offices throughout Latin America

far placement in the local nezspaporz.. Developmenta

aported in chece articlou included demanda by the Bolivian

Senate for the ouster of the Gubm Charge d'Aftaire,

cerzorion and governeat counceraction in Venezuela,..

the seizure in Ecuador of an anus and emplosives cache

roportedly roceived from Guba, several articles on the

International Jaion of Architects Congzena In Habeta

(smphasiaing the intent of the Gastro regime to use the

Congreds as a forum for its propagands claima), and

Abslotant Secretary Martia's Los Angeles speech te which

he pointed ous the segina's alfinity for Chinese comunist

doctrine and its continued capbasis on violent revolutien

and atevazcion.:

In all,. the press service tronemleted

27 articles and commentaries during Septeubes on the

subjecs of Cube, the other arcieles dealing for the most

pere with econonie and politionl condicions inside the

country as euldenced by the regina's own adniscions and

the reports of raingose.

WW 50955 DocId: 32424708 Page 16

STORIN!

---

## Page 17

SECSEE

The Volce of Anerica Spanish broadcasce to Latin

Anaries during Septenber carried a total of 20 newe

analyses, commentaries, press sound-ups, and interviews

rolated to the subject of Cuban subversion. Some of

the developpents croated ineluded the following:

A cocontary on commit embasales as channels for

subvezsion; 'e neve alysis on the J.S. studento vio

Violted Coba; Ansistant Gocrotary Marcia's Los Angeles

spopch; & nove aonlyaés on Cuban subversion as an obatacle

in the nonsalizazion of 1,5,-Scvier relacions; e chrec-

pace series on university autorcy in latin neries;

e gecture on the lecter of a Colomblan studone who

went to Cuba on a scholsenbip and was disillusioned by.

the commist indoctaination; & comentury on the Guevera"s

recent article on revolutionan strategy; and a comentary

un suerrilla training in Cuba. Many of shete items were

repeated sevezal tines in the bcoadcasts.. The "Rendezvous

with Caba" hour carried four oz flve commentaries slom:

Mus and incenters nightly on sconendo and political

devalopmento inside Cube. Cl special note,

, the Cuban

milo and Castro himsels resctod angrily to Voice of

Aronica broadozate about the Canvazala article and to cou-

mataries that Cuba had accopted an agricultural role in

NH 50955 DocId: 32424708 • Page 17

SOONIE

the

---

## Page 18

SECIST

15

inquacrio1120•

On September 27, the Agacey fosted a circules

Instruction to alllite latin American posts urging

sreater attention to opporemities for pablicizing Cuban-

attaulaced subvercion, eusscating the various types ot

infomecion activicios to support this effort, and requescing

mutily soporta of floid actions caten to inplensnt the

Insectaction

Thís tao done as a follow up to the original

Instruction on Cubon subversion which mo leaued April 3,

2903-

Only

MW 50955 DocId: 32424708

Page 18

---

## Page 19

SESNEX

16

H7 50955 DooId: 32424708

Page 19

---

## Page 20

17

HH 50955

DooId: 32421708 Page 20

---

