# 198-10005-10014

## Page 1

198-10005-10014

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10005-10014

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: OSD

FROM: COL PATCHELL

TO :

GEN LANSDALE

TITLE :

DATE: 08/02/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS

HEMMING, JERRY PATRICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder I. Newspaper clipping regarding Gerald Patrick Hemming and the

training of anti-Castro Cubans with attached cover memos and copy of extract from dossier on

Hemming.

v9.1

IT 50955

9

DooId: 32423732

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

MEMO FOR

Gen Fanadalen

IN FOLLOW WP ON JERRY

PATRICK HEMMING - CIA

HAS A DOSIER ABOLITAN

INCH THICK - AS FAR AS

THEY ARE CONCERNED HE

1S OK, - 1S NOT THEIR

MAN - BUT COVERs THeL

His Actions much of

THEIR ACtIoN, THey coNsIDER

HIM HELPFUL TO THEIR

CAUSE, EXTRACTS OF

CIA REPORTS ARE SECOND

ATTACHED.

doe Patchell

thanksm

ATHT

50955 DocId: 32423732

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEMORANDUM

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

GEN LANSDALE -

AFTER YOU HAVE NOTED

ATTACHED FROM LT COL

CHAVEZ- I WILL CHECK

To seE WitAt kind Of

A FIX CIA HAS ON

THAS ITEM,

coe Patluee

MIR

30 gul 62

Gen Lashed mete

follm up I get fix-origial

aud one

enou

slying to bie Clevern

49 10708

ATHT

50955

DocId: 32423732

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NW 50955 DocId: 32123732

Page 4

1ZB: THE SHAMI HERALD Sunday, July 22, 1902

Anti-Castro War Camp

Ruled Out by Exiles

BY JAMES BUCHANAN

then another, Patrick finall

Herald Stall Welter.

settled upon the name "Inte

Anti-Castro Cubans and their

national Penetration Forcel do

American:

supporters have

his organization

and bega

been forced to drop plans for

guerrilla tratning of Cuban re

large guerrilla

warfare

ugees here with money supple

training camp near New Or-

by the Cuban colony.

leans, The Herald learned Sat-

1 6-foot, 5 inch. 231 pounde

urday

Patrick has abandoned, the ton

The site, on the north edge

one Lake Pontchar tram 40

hait, pointed, beard andenu.

miles north 0i New Orleans;

tralian bush hat he wore to

was donated this spring by an

more then a veas during hi

carly activities here.

anonymous U.S. businessman.

The tratning of onti-Castro

Cubans and them camp itself

Jerry Patrick

work for haught?

veteran of our years

the a Marine:

Corps,"

Ahe

dresses as unobtrusively as po

were to have been command-

sible and is still considered, on

ed by Gerald Fatrick en

public knowledge of the pro-

jof the most ardent and effec

tive Americans working wit

ing, a 25-year-old soldier of

posed camp became too vide-

fortune well known, to Cu-

the anti-Castro forces:

spread and the Councht want.

bans here.

ed to dodge any connection

The stop order" came from with a large scale operation

the Cuban Revolutionary Coun-lon which the U.S. State De-

cil's Miami headquarters which

advised

Sits New Orleans as-

partment and Central Intelli-

sociates they rould not supporti

gence Agency would frown.

any clandestine

training sites

Homming, who operates un-

in the United States,

der the name derry Patrick,

Preparations for activating

has been netive in anti-Castro

the guerrilla

warfare school

activities here since: late 1960.

were begun last February as

He had been in Cuba since

New Orleans' Cuban colony

1958 with Castro's fornes and

began rounding up arms.. am-

defected.

munition and money for the

venture.

Leading first one group and

Reportedly, they were suc

cessful in raising large sums

of money

and acquiring

large

stocks of late model weapons.

Patrick made Innumerable

trips between Miaml and New

Orleans during the past four

snonths preparing

the: site,

which is conplete with an air-

strip, for July occupancy.

Plans had called for the.

training of 50 to 75 Cubans

in classes lasting from six to

eight weeks.

"Al the

completion.

of the

"courses" the

guerrilla fight-

cis ivould have been ready to

infiltrate

Cuba where

they

would work with local under-

pround.

leaders

in

sabo-

dage and operations against

Castro's army and millitla.

Louis Rabell, the

New Or-

leans representative of the Cu-

ban Revolutionary

Council

headed by Dr. Miro Cardona,

confireed the Council had or.

dered the camp, closed before

---

## Page 5

RABINO, Corala P.

A 23 5r 010.0.5, cllizen

nt Bon dulden an e pr

Alro a Migiri was a laris

and bad been cared then

Jose hi ellisenihip, tat

Subj not with Flog curtsid

for training and futuro at

Subj etntodon lo toni of. INtErFEr bas :20

lo irain Cabora la pully toch, salt be

à Cubas Als Porco lasa and talkod agalnat Ararion

press ingry.

201.

109125

Loved by 749 a

8145092

RaY

NITP

that ba

ecala

Eval

latrid

tisan oute ldo of 013.

J. Det: 61'

100(1 14)

mperialiate, baby uno t

mEn130, Gomld Tabrick (Jr.)

.18.

201-309225

CUTA

Subj 9x-U.5, farine,

aprod 19 mtbe Cabe. dray (Tarstroopera) & Cuba. Air /Force do

job

159

20 A146,

160.

Intilad debrielo ano la 00-8 roto #9/159.982, 3/170.324: 3/170,077

SUbJ alTea Tenarts about Nicomguan

rocolosionless la Cobs: 0925999

she wripe broton

Rubj currently ranides so Alranbia,

Cal11.i

stagne that. bio loyalty de so U.S. but

interioner teola that this la bodouse subs feela that D.S, Mullçary sethodo aro euporios do

any othara: donaa to ho mainly loferentod lo guerrilla

(008. 9/170,536, DCT-13375. 1 lion 110)

SiPIneroneonaly roferred 20 1a 00-A (5) 3,170, 336 22 305FT P.

3r.) inforned

that he

Doring Hial,

Morsda a would arrivo tharo

Honday:

20 Kar 61. Subs stated ho going contact 31ry

GAZET, 9SD 5.v.

Pass

st.9

Aps.

8,

vines,

Tha. (Tole: Thank) In 4-3255) d hat there

sone proceed */ulas of aótion

atred at orbanizing

esall erp of "Proforcidbala"

anond retolalionarles) sho

• would

attempt conduct

yeals reconnalecanee.ope

of cuba ela paractuto aropa de

either light place

vater Dick-ups.

subj siniad

what he could in. Miami to

attempt unite

I-CASTIO POriao thero a alo

Influnace of tombor of "Bertenarior" who

had jodaad tarlous

norenonta a vero

doing 18 sore bara than good thild bloctine ofe

amch of the atallable money.

(00-6 3/183, 427, 31 Narcb 1961)

Pil ted

3 Internesnorint loverrat: a fario (Interpen)

faretro:

Perm Miriek, youn

we nat:.

unfrms and purcercon mata purchared it Arro

c-yplu9 -10r99,

arilled dor comando-tore actua carryt

Fire c.ma

nard to trian Curre rotal

5oe 131 revorts: 19-0-0/1, URE FATSO, IA Pas Al and tray 35053, li dor 6a

ines aneertued as a cario ari infilemier.

Lege or the sirone iesdonalder and Aarluence he laster sude under lile duriedlelson.

troy jorg, 20 Jured, E/contace do hurtort)

it" are canartar, Cantel says that

- last ananciated in any attaching setloite in tilazi mich gul).

-7937,

29 is: 2951

lionle

Fle.)

a Area,: Pat Stenanick and M131 Peonday, wiro ulahad lo valinteer in finht for the

Uberat lor of, Cura

of trrald Fabrick lEnim.

(aaance:

in the citrant audre ar ta

their dog maine ottorn

enemien

Gransvinse to be ins

004-1/19, 213)

---

