# 198-10007-10019

## Page 1

198-10007-10019

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10007-10019

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: JCS

FROM:

V.H.KRULAK

TO :

ICCCA

TITLE:

OVERVIEW PAPER ON CASTRO-COMMUNIST SUBVERSION

DATE:

05/14/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 17. Memo from Krulak to the ICCCA re: Overview Paper on

Castro-Communist Subversion.

JFK Review

repartment of the Army EO 1352

Declassify → Exclud

fag Exempt

NO STATE OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

- DATE @1/146/16

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId: 32424012 Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

SECRET

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

THE JOINT

STAFF

SACSA-M 286-63

14 May

• 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR

THE INTERDEPARTVENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE

ON CUBAN AFFAIRS

Subject:

Overview Paper on Castro Communist

Subversion

1. At a recent meeting the members of the Sub-Committee

on Cuban Subversion discussed the critical need for an

overview of the Castro: Communist subversion situation

in Latin America, in 1ight of the many actions which have

been proposed or adopted in recent months.

envisioned that such a presentation would

in 12e in recent i rould be

It was

be designed on

developed studies.

2. The analysis should be developed from information

largely avallable in Washington, as opposed to requiring

speclel reports fron the field;

and should be prepared

of I June, to be avallable not later than 1 July.

3. The Committee authorized me to recommend to you

that preparation of a paper of the scope outlined above

be required.

V. H. KRULAK

Mejor General, USMO

Cherman

SECRET

DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS;

DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS.

DOD DIR 5200.10

HH 50955 DoOId: 32424012

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

9 May 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING

COMMITTEE ON CUBAN AFFAIRS

SUBJECT:

Second Progress Report, Sub-Committee on Cuban

Subversion

ENCLOSURE: Progress Achieved during April in Impeding Travel

to Cuba

1. The enclosure hereto summarizes progress made by the

several departments and agencies, during the month of April, in

executing the actions approved by the President on 8 March 1963,

to control the movement of subversives and subversive trainees to

and from Cuba.

2. In addition to the program on control of subversive travel,

action programs were completed in all of the companion areas, and

were forwarded for approval on the dates indicated below:

a. Controls on Movement of Propaganda Material - 14 March 1963

b.. Controls on Movement of Arms - 14 March 1963

c. The Organization of a Caribbean Surveillance System -

15 March 1963

d. The Exchange of Intelligence - 25 March 1963

e. Controls on Movement of Funds - 10 April 1963

f. Training of Latin Americans in the United States -

26 April 1963

3. A significant development during the month of April bearing

on the action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee was the

Ministerial Meeting held in Managua, Nicaragua, on 3-4 April. The

Managua meeting produced a set of eight resolutions which, when

implemented, will proceed along the same major avenues as the

SECRET

GROUP -1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

NW 50955

DocId: 32424012 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

action programs proposed by the Sub-Committee. An interdepart-

mental team is currently visiting the Isthmian capitals, consulting

with Ministers of Government and authorities designated by them in

the fields of immigration control, customs control, coastal sur-

veillance and the organization of a local counter-subversive agency.

For the Sub-Committee:

V. H. KRULAK

Major General, USMC

Chairman

SECRET

17 50955

DocId: 32424012

Page

---

## Page 5

SECRET

PROGRESS ACHIEVED DURING APRIL IN IMPEDING TRAVEL TO CUBA

1. The Department of State has:

a. Participated in the drafting of

a resolution passed at

the 3-4 April Managua meeting respecting discouragement of

travel of Latin Americans to Cuba for

training in subversion.

The text of the

resolution is appended

hereto.

b. Headed an interdepartmental team currently visiting

the Isthmian capitals with the objective of securing, where

feasible, the fullest and quickest implementation of all the

recommendations agreed on at Managua. Prior to the depar-

ture of the team,

Department of State posts were instructed

to inform the host governments of the trip and to encourage

them to identify

the kinds and extent of technical assistance

it would be most

useful for the United States to furnish.

c. Caused to be noted in U.S. passports since 1 April that

they are not valid for travel to cuba.

d. Following an indication that the Bolivian Government

might be willing to increase efforts to impede travel of its

nationals to Cuba, instructed the U.S. Embassy to recommend

that the GOB:

(1) Ban travel to Cuba by Bolivian nationals except

for official or special purposes approved by the GOB, and

establish legal penalties for violations;

(2) Require Bolivian citizens to have a passport or

other GOB document to travel abroad;

(3) Make such document invalid for travel to Cuba

unless

specially endorsed;

(4) Seek arrangements with third countries which are

important transit points under which third countries

will assist the GOB in preventing unauthorized travel

by Bolivians and will help identify violators.

-. Drawing on the recommendation in the paper on "The Move-

ment of subversives and subversive Trainees

and other sources,

prepared telegrams to the non-Isthmian posts, instructing them

to encourage host governments to take additional counter-

subversion steps. Each instruction was tailored to the local

SECRET

HW 50955 DocId: 32124012 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

situation in the recipient country and included appropriate

suggestions as to strategy which might be used in securing

implementation of the desired actions.

f. Requested posts in Latin America to encourage host

governments to take appropriate measures to discourage

participation of their nationals in Cuba's May Day cele-

bration, and to prevent charter flights from their country

to Cuba

for the celebration.

2. The Department of Defense has:

a. Continued the U.S, sea and air surveillance of the

surrounding Cuba until 25 April 1963, at the same rate

and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that date.

Since 25 April 1963, additional sea surveillance has been

realized between cuba and haiti, due to the stationing of

the Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at the entrance of

the Gulf of Gonaives occasioned by the deterioration of

internal conditions within Haiti. Reports of subversive

movement, or suspected subversive movement, obtained by

U,S. surveillance are available for immediate transmittal

through the U,S. military alerting system.

b. Flowing from recommendations by the committee,

greatly accelerated current programs for the installation

of military communications facilities in Latin America.

As of 1 April, a commercial submarine cable from Florida

to Panama became operational.

This cable gives reliable

voice and teletype communications to CINCARIB including

both classified teletype and voice. Negotiations are con-

tinuing in Honduras, Colombia and Ecuador for the instal-

lation of military radio facilities. Installation of a

multi-channel radio station has been completed in Costa

Rica.

A similar facility in Nicaragua is scheduled for

completion by 1 July 1963.

c. Established an Intelligence Center at CARIBCOM

Headquarters, in connection with the program of surface

surveillance.of the Caribbean, for rapid processing and

dissemination to countries concerned, via the American Am-

bassadors, of intelligence on the movement of subversives.

SECRET

2

NH 50955

DooId: 32424012

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

d. Established on 11 April a U.S. military alerting

system operated by CINCARIB and CINCLANT.

Pursuant to the

request of the Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee on

Cuban Affairs the Department of Defense has suspended the

use of the Military Groups in the alerting system and is

working with CIA to reduce duplication of

effort to a mini-

mum.

e. Alerting U.S. forces, for the most part within the

Atlantic Command, to be prepared to provide U.S. assistance

in the final interception of shipping in territorial waters

upon request by the country concerned.

Currently, forces

are assigned by the unified commander involved, to meet the

singular problem encountered.

I. Ordered to the Canal Zone a Coast Guard Mobile

Training Team for a perlod of six months; beginning 15 May

1963, to provide training, in Spanish, In boat handling

and maintenance together with surveillance techniques to.

those Central American countries having 40 foot Coast Guard

Utility Boats. In addition, the Mobile Training Team will

assist as required in establishing a permanent Small Craft

Training and Inspection Facility in the Canal Zone.

One

40 foot utility boat has been permanently assigned to the

U.S. Naval Station; Rodman, Canal Zone for use by the MTT and

3. The Central Intelligence Agency has:

50955

SECRET

DocId: 32424012

3

Page

---

## Page 8

SECRET

SECRET

NW 50955

DocId: 32424012 Page 8

4

---

## Page 9

SECRET

-

SECRET

5

NW 50955

DocId: 32424012

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECREI

SECRET

HH 50955

DocId: 32424012

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

4. The U. S. Information Agency has:

a. Sent circular instructions to all USIS field posts

in Latin America advising each to stimulate publicity in

the local press and radio, to encourage identification of

Cuban trainees through personal-contact work with students

and labor, to report promptly evidence of Cuban-aided

subversion in each country, to report statements by local

leaders and editorial comment; and to publicize economic

conditions in Cuba as means of discrediting travellers to

Cuba. The Agency's

• Washington media were issued a detailed

guidance on the subject on 28 March.

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32424012 Page 11

7

---

## Page 12

SECRET

b. In addition to the regular news reporting (VOA) of

the Managua Ministers' Meeting, broadcast 15 commentaries

and features on the subject of Cuban subversion to Latin

America during the month of April. Among these were a

dramatization based on the story of an ecuadoran boy who

was attacked by communists in Guayaquil for carrying anti-

communist film, a chronology of subversive acts involving

Cuban diplomats; and a history of subversion from the

Trojan horse through Nazi fifth columns to present-day

Cuban subversion®

c. Transmitted by teletype 13 articles on Cuban subver-

sion during April to USIS posts throughout Latin America

for placement in the local press.

These included news

stories, commentaries, and backgrounders.

Among the sub-

jects treated were the Managua Meeting, the Guayaquil

incident, the story of an Ecuadoran terrorist trained

in

Cuba who

was wounded by his own explosives, Assistant

Secretary Martin's Pan

• American Day speech, and several

commentaries on training in Cuba.

The Agency's publica-

tions center in Mexico also published a pamphlet based

on the defection of the Guatemalan ex-communist leader

Carlos Manuel Pellecer, Including letters in which he

revealed communist subversive tactics.

SECRET

H7 50955

DocId: 32424012

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

APPENDIX

RESOLUTION I PASSED AT THE 3-4 APRIL MANAGUA

MEETING OF VINISTERS

The Meeting of Ministers of Government, Interior and Security

convoked pursuant to the pertinent section of the declaratior

of Central America signed by the Presidents of the sever

countries

in san Jose,

' Costa Rica on March 19, 1963.

AGREES

To recommend to their Governments that they adopt, within

the limitations of their respective constitutional provisions,

measures to be put into effect immediately, to prohibit;

restrict and discourage the movement of their nationals to

and from Cuba.

To this end, they propose the adoption of

the following measures:

(1) Provide, as a general rule, that every passport or

other

travel document which may be issued carry a stamp

which indicates that said passport is not valid for travel

to cuba..

(2) Declare officially that nationals who are permitted

to

travel to Cuba should have the permission duly inscribed

in their official travel document.

(3) Promulgate regulations restricting the granting of

visas to foreigners who have travelled to Cuba within a

stipulated period of time.

(4) Notify travel agencies and transport companies of

these

measures for due compliance; and inform the govern-

ments

of other countries through

the most appropriate

means •

(5) Request the Governments of the Hemisphere:

á) not to allow the nationals of signatory countries

to travel to Cuba unless they possess a valid passport

or other document issued by their country of origin

valid for such travel;

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32424012 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

b) not to accept visas, tourist cards or other

documents issued to their nationals for travel to Cuba

which do not form an integral (non-detachable) part..

of their passports or other travel documents;

c) to observe the limitations placed in the pass-

ports or other travel documents of the nationals of

signatory governments and not allow them to depart for

Cuba;

d) to inform the signatory countries through

appropriate channels of refusals to allow one of their

nationals to depart for Cuba; and

e) to provide the signatory governments the names

of their nationals which may appear on the passenger

list of any airplane or ship going to or coming from

Cuba.

SECRET

HW 50955

DocId: 32424012 Page 14

---

