# 198-10006-10000

## Page 1

198-10006-10000/

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10006-10000

RECORD SERIES:

CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

FITZGERALD/COOPER

TO:

DCI

TITLE: CONSIDERATIONS FOR US POLICY TOWARDS CUBA AND LATIN AMERICA

DATE: 12/09/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

CIA COVERT ACTION PROGRAM

COURSES OF ACTION

POLICY OBJECTIVES TOWARD CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 1. Memo for DCI regarding U.S. policy toward Cuba.

Department of the Army EO 13528

AJ Declassity E Exclude E Exempt

Authority-

NO STATE OBJECTION

TO DECIASSIFICATION

3Y M

DATE 01/14/16

v9.1

NY 50955

DocId: 32423815

Page 1

1

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

© December 1963

THROUGH:

SUBJECT:

Diroctor of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director (Intolligence)

Considerations for Ul folloy Toward

Cube and Latin America

I. US POLICY OBJECTIVES

1. Us policy toward Latin Amerion la to Increase the

stability of the area, to strengthen friendly democrutic

goverments, and to prevent the establishment of Castroite

and anti US

regines.

None of these seen attainable so long

as Castro, with Boviet support, rules in Cuba. Accordingly,

the most immediato US objective in Cuba la the replacement

of the Castro-Communist regime by one compatible with the

goals of the United States. Current US policy in pursuance

of this objective is to leolate Cuba from the Western Homi

sphere and the rent of the Free World and to exert maximum

possible pressures, short of open and direct US military

intervention, to prevent the consolidation and stabilization

of the Castro-Communist rogine.

the CIA covert action pro-

gram is designed to support other governmental measures to

proliferate and intensily the pressures on Castro; 1ts

ultinate purpose

1a to encourage diantdent elements, particu

larly in the military, to carry out a coup and eliminate

Castro and the Soviet presence in Cuba.

II. PROSPECTS FOR ACHIEVING THESE OBJECTIVEB

2.

The situation in Cuba Is characterised by econonic

stagnation, deprensed living condition, the loss of

revolutionary impetus, and the dinillusionment of an 1i

creasingly large mjority of the population.

To mome extent

thie 19 a result of tonate economto deflolenotes in Cuba,

and more recently, hurricane Flore; but to a conniderable

extent, the probio contronting the castro regina have been

magnified by Chatro's own Ineptitude and by the Ua policy of

econome and politloal isolation, and other barassment and

sabotago measures. Castro's position apponre to be eroding

gradually and recently he has been forced to sdopt Increasingly

harsh mensures to mintain his control. We bollove that a

continuation of prement US polley over the nort 18 to 84

months w1ll produce a mbatantial further deterioration In

Excluded fram automatic

downgrading and

declassification

IT 50955

DonTd: 32423815

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

the cuban economy and In Cuban morale, with consequent

serious inplientions for Castro's poultion.

But Us prestre

met be intenalfied 11 the deteriorating altuation vithin

Cuba 1s to result in the overthrow of the Castro regime In

the foreseeable future.

$.

Despite whatever probles he has been having In

Cuba (or perhaps because of them), Chatro has recently inten

f10d setions alned at fomenting violence, subversion and

revolution throughout latin Ameriod.

Given stable political

conditions in this region, Cantro'n limited mubvermive capa

bilitles would pose no immediate threat to Us interests.

But mince polltical conditions are highly fragile in many

Latin Amertean countries, the threat fron Cantro ta real and

do condor:

disproportionate to his om meager assets.

ills urgent need

to sohleve some early triumph has impelled him to shake off

his recent caution as evidenced by the Cuban arms cache dig

covered in Venezuela, his call for violent revolutionary

action to take place in Peru, Brazil, and Panana, In December,

and his threat to cut off support from his follower. in other

countries unles they initiate early action.

While we belleve

that these actiona are evidence of some demperation and that

they may even baokfire, they neverthelon demonetrate Castro's

determination to pursue an all out campaign of revolution.

The key quentions then, are how much time does Castro have

and, In this tine, can

he set dangerous revolutionary fires

throughout the benisphere. A corollary quention is whether

present US polley vial-vis Cuba and Latin America neote

present US requirements. Our vlew is that the pace is slow.

and 1e allowing Castro a dangerous latitude in bin Latin

American program of subversion and revolution.

We believe

that Cantro's recent activities in latin America now provide

us with our opportunity to pursue a more openly aggressive

retaliation approach against the Cantro rogine, both unflaterally

as vell an in collaboration with the countries of the OAS for

Joint action designed to remove Castro.

III. COURSES OF ACTION

A. Invasion

4. A muccessful Invasion of Cuba would provide the most

direct, simplest, and expeditious way of removing cetro.

This course has been shunned up to now largely becaune of

concern for world reaction and the ponsibility of encalation

into global war with the fovlet Union, which to at least

mormlly committed to defend the Chutro regime. However,

several new feetors have become apparent aince the gaine und

costs of an invasion courne were last thoroughly aramined over

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

icelesalfiextian

NH 50955 DocId: 32423815 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SERRETO

a goar ago and ne ballovo that a roappralaal lo now varrantod.

The USa! 1A LOving OCOnIC dIIlIcultLO, thO 81ue Sovior

11t00 have loooonod all of which night hove a moderating

intluoncO on BOvIOt PoRtIons to & nove aginat cuba. Au

for Coutro, hia dirsicultied at homo and his bobaylor abroad

mio ability to defond hio island unile at tho

same tino encourago other latin huerlean governonto to

undortato moro secrosalve actiono.

#. Rogardion of any of theo rocent developmenta, a

must recognize that an invasion of cube carrion great rish

of a Us soviot controntation (probably In Berlin rather than

Cuba). The risk of such a confrontation pould bo lous 11 an

18VDS10N WAS CLEArLY A TONIC OS & UNANIMOUS DAS dociaion

and 11 the invading forcos vere sonuinoly multilateral in

composition than 1l the attack on Cuba vas strictly a uni

lateral ug action.

In fact, anything nore than a untlateral

us action, even though subatentially lons than an OAS action,

would take

sond of the odge off the risks implicit in an

invadion.

Tho risk of confrontation would be

substantially

less it multilateral Old action vore coupled with unrest

Inside Cuba leading to a coup.

In any case, however, the

Ussa would probably stop up tensions sharply in Berlin and

we should be propred for atraing anong our NATO allles.

This will be

spocially true if the invasion wore undertaken

WItbOUT PrIOr NATO consultation.

6.

Finally, 1t should be noted that the President told

Mikoyan on 26 November that the US was not planning to invade

Cuba.

A US invasion in the face of the Premident's remarke

might reflect on the good faith of the President and the

credibility of future US discussions with high Soviet officiala.

500 d

On the other hand,

Mikoyan asserted that "CUba was too gmall

to subvert anyone;" clearly demonstrable evidence that Castro

was, In fact, engaging in subversion would provide sufficient

justification to warrant a reversal of any conmitment, explicit

or Implicit, that was made to Mikoyan. If an invasion were

an OAS affair, (or even undertaken by several Latin American

countries who were conapicuous targete of Castro's subversive

activitien) so much the better.

B. Blockade

7. A complete and successful blockade of Cuba, Including

expected to bring down

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423815 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SEC.

In the abnonce of an actual coolaration of var, vonte ainost

cortainly remit in & mbatantial resetion staut the

blockaders (whether the ll alone or the OnS in Ita entirety)

and considerable opposition even anong our closent allles in

reduced 1f the blockade wore:

solective 11.e, 11nitod te pol and

mnitions);

b. A quarantine of covert shipments of

arms, equipment, and personnol between Cuba

and latin America (woo paragraph l1 B (1)

below).

An operatton in which there vere very

subatantial partletpation by other DAS countries;

An action following a clear and convineing

cose that Cantro as engaged in subversion through

out Latin America.

Of short duration and resulted in the

overthrow of the Castro rogine fros vithis.

8.

As In the care of an Invalon, soviet resotion will

probably be more llely to take place in Berlin (whore tholr

strategic position 1a an lavorable to them ne ours in Cuba

1s to ua).

Thus, 1l thie course were purmed, It should be

done recognizing

that a counterblocknde of Berlin and

incidente involving Soviets shipe in Cuban ter will almost

certainly be an immediate consequence.

C. Action Short of lavanton oll Complete Blockade

9.

Both an Invanion and a blockde are high Flat sotion

which would reprement a for change not only in our Cubin

polley, but 1n our Intertionul polley an voll. For thin

remos, domestio political no noll as the brondent stratosto

LIftary and foreten polley consideration would be involved.

There are, howver, certain courne of notion which could

be dirocted aginat Cretro in Cube and Intin Anerten which

aro len rinky than elther as luvasion or blockado,

but would

Involve a mbstantially higher "notes lovel" and risk of con

trontation with the lovietn thra thore presently 1n elfeet.

Som of there hay bon constamel in the punt, but inve been

rejoeted, wully olther on croands of excrunive fist er lsel

01 1011011187, No boliove 11 10 ny appropriate to reconsider

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423815 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CARET

these and other actione designed to step up the Intenalty

and paco of overt and covert actions those purpose la to

bring about the downfall of the Castro regime in the fore

memble future.

The status of current programs and recon

mendations for future sction are dimoussed below.

10. CIA Activitie

A.

CIA'" Intograted Covert Action Proutan

Toward Cuba, approved by higher authority in mid.

June 1063, conaiate of the following interdependent

courses of action and has ande progress as indicated

belue:

(1) Covert collection of intelligence, both

for US strategic requiremento as vell as for

operational requiremonts - covert collection

of intelligence utilies all collection techniques

both within Cuba as vell an against Cuban InstalI-

tions and personuel abrond.

The quantity and

quality of this intelligence continues to improve,

although still far from our goals.

(2) Propaganda netion to stimulate log rist

simple saborage and other forma of active and

pansive resistance CIA controlled radio prodrons

and other propaganda media directed at cuba en-

courage low risk sinple sabotage and other forns

o1 active and psalve realatance.

These nodia

also sock to timlate and acerbate tensiona

within the ragine and between Cuba and the

soviet Bloo, taktis nivantra of sino-soviel

tension.

The program Include both ma1l1n

and radio operations.

(3) Boonomic denial actions - government-wide

overt official UB economic sanctions in conjunction

with covert econone dental operation are causing a

marked adverse affect on the Cuban economy.

(4) Exploitation and attmlation of disa1-

fection In the Cuban military and other power

conterm - ve are undertaking an Intensive probing

offort to identify, noos out, and outabllah

ohnnel of com nication with disaffected and

potentially dlouident nos Com iut olennte In

the pover center of the regime, pirtloularly 1n

the armed foree Morrahy. The objectivo lu to

stimulato an Intermal coup which rould dislodge

We currently are 11

who my be of t

NH 50955 DocId: 32423815 Page 6

ALI

---

## Page 7

SECREY

(5) General sabotage and harassment .

sabotage in this program 1a both an econonic

weapon and a stimulus to restatance.

Binoe the

approval of the program, four externally

mounted sabotage operations have been aucreatu

inree naditional were ready to go, but for

several reasons including weather, were recalled

at the last minute.

While it 1o recognised that

no single act of sabotage will materially affect

economy, we belleve these ambotage raids have

had a eignificant cumulative effect and should be

continued.

We belleve the recent rise in Internal

sabotage and increased diantfection and demoraltza-

tion in the armed forces are partly due to the

impact of these externally mounted sabotage raida.

(6)

Support of autonomous anti- Cantro Cubau

groups to supplement and amaint in the executor

oi the above course of action - in order to expand

sabotage and resistance activities it has become

necessary to accept the rike Involved in utilizing

autonomous Cuban exile groupe and individuale who

will not necessarily be responsive to our guidance.

Substantial progress ls being made in this part of

the program and we expect the firet Infiltration

and sabotage operations to begin in mid January.

B.

Suggeations for Intensification of Covert Action

Prugrams Directed Against Cuba.

• An stated above,

the

primary objoctive of the covert action program ia to

create conditiona and exploit all opportunities which

could lead to a coup againat the Castro regime. Under

the program approved in mid June 1963, we have adeguate

policy latitude and we are now matine minun use of

In our

Judgment, however, the category of ambotage and harass

nent should bo intensified, at least for the neut

year, both as to quantity and quality, ll the overall

progran 1e to have a chance of producing the desired

resulta. With rogard to quantity, the pollor deciaton

In

ta da, but It has almo drantically reduced the

NH 50955 DocId: 32423815 Page 7

---

## Page 8

number of raids againt Cuba. With regard to quality.

ne have long recognised the importance of incapacitatim

the critieal power plants and o11 refineries in the

Havart, latanzas, and Santiago areas of Cube.

But

unduly basardous operational condition around these

Inutallations for maritime raide and concern over the

political repercussions of the capture of comndos

sent on theme missions, have militated against mounting

much raide.

Moreover,

the effectivo dange that can be

done to those beavily defended targets by mall tears

now used covertly la problematical. A number of these

targets, however, can be effectively attacked from the

air under acceptable risk conditions. No, therefore,

propose the following:

(1) Relation of the present policy bennius

a11 independent (non-CIA controlled or spongored)

Cuban exile maritine raids and air otrtkes against

target in Cuba from US and urge the British to do

Ilkowise for Bahanan territory.

(2) Authorization to conduct CIA or autononous

group controlled nir otrikes againat selected ajor

economic targets such an the power plante and oil

refineries in the Havana, Matanzas, and Santiago

arens of Cuba.

11. Action by Other Governmental Agencies, supported

27 ClA as Approprtate.

Unless alI govermental

agencies accord

the highest degree of priority and urgency to bringing about

the downfall of the Cantro regime, an interification of the

covert action program alone is not Ilkoly to achieve tbe

desired result. Accordingly, we recommend that the following

proposals be given renewed emphaalm or be initiated 11 not

already In effect:

A. Actions Againet Cuba

(1) It 1u urged that Promident Jolson aike a policy

declaration on Cuba at the orliot opportunity to make

cler that the us contimon to rood the Chatro regime

so intolerablo. A "no rapprochment with Contro" stato

unt should do explicitly included so no to timinte

and encourage anti-Cantro/Commaint dinnident elementa

In the armed foreen to carry out a coup.

for a Preside tint statement to furthur this objective

ar contained in Tab A attnabed.

do sit side li

-??

WH 50955 DocId: 32123815 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEGRE:

(2) By an interplay of diplomatic premoure and

political mriare to caune the kremlin lendership to

conclude that dimengement from it overertended and

precarious position in Cuba would be in the best

Soviet Interent. The President and his reprementatives

can put the sovlete on notice via diplomatie channels

and in private confidential dincurion that US

rapprochement with Castro is excluded from consideration,

and that the existence of the Castro regime la « serous

Impediment to detente with the USSE.

The US could offer

to asslat the Soviets in finding a face saving way to

withdraw gracefully from Cuba without serious luos-term

damage to 1ts prestige, a techaique already succesafull;

applied during the nastle crisis of October 1962. CIA

could support this effort by covert political and deception

operations to exacerbate existing tenion between Cantro

and the Soviets by causing Castro to bolleve that the

Sovieta are engaged in secut negotiations with the US

to climinate him.

There la still considerable opportunity for

tientening the economic noose round Castro if the Us

1s prepared to incur the temporary displeamure of certain

allies and neutral countries.

More severe US sanctions

against countries that trade

with or ship to Cuba could

be imposed.

We are particularly concerned with lie current

trade ind

shipping practices of Canada, the Uk, Sprin,

and dapan.

(4)

U8 military feinte could be undertaken destened

to crete and maintain a high state of annlety within

the Castro regime regarding US intentions.

Supported by

covert political and deception operations theme feinte

wold cause frequent Cuban military alerte and constant

movement of Cuban forces throughout the iuland.

(5) Initiation of froquent low levol reconnaisance

flighta would provide additiomi uneful intelligence on

Cuban and Soviet military momento.

These flights would

also have a positive paychologionl «floct tonide Cuba 1n

denonstrating Ds contempt for Castro 1n 1 visible and

dramatic noor.

B. Actions in Latin Amenca. An Cantro's domontic poniton

deteriorates, be ta Tikoly,

In despiration, to become incremingy

ruthlems and reokle in fomenting ubversios, violence, and

revolution in Imtin Amerien. It thus bacomes empocially import

ant to make certain that Cantro dom not outflant ul efforts by

DEU

WH 50955 DocId: 32423815 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRES

allowing his « mjor socon pomewhere in Intin Amrien

weh an be ben sought to schlove in Venomela.

It vould be unreliatle to poet mch in the may

of militant or asreive sotton againt Castro Iron the

and of most of the individul Latin Anerican countries strong

enough or no sographically located as to mate any significant

contribution.

But the vulnerability of old countrie to

Castro's subverive sotivitie provides all the more reason

for an OM thnt has the substano a vell me the form of an

alliance. For thia rennon ve would place high on the liat of

Us netion a nove to revitalise the CAS. Although many of

the action linted bolar could be undertaken untinterally by

the US, a coordinated OAl approach would not only 1ncroaso

their offoctivener, but reduce their rint.

In canes where

it in imposalble to

set wholenarted and unanimous partie

patlon by the OMB, 1t mould be our guidina principlo to

bring so many Latla Anorlean countries an pomelble along

with us, by bilateral acromments 11 socenry.

The following actions with rempoot to latin Amerlen

are encentially defan ive in the none that they are dealgood

to thwart Castro's mbrraive efforts 10 this reston. Ve

assune that they will be accompanled by long ter programs

to bulld up the stability and strength of frlendly latin

American regines:

(1) Perhaps the mont important setion the US

could take to taolate Cuba fron Latin Amrien and

insulate theme countries fron Cuban subrarion efforts

In to quarantine covert arm, ovuipment, in! persomel

shipmente by aft or se from Cuba to latin Amerloa.

For mutan affoet, the cordon, preferably anctioned

by and participatod in by the OAs, mould do drawn an

clome to Cuban shore au 1n tretlenlly ponsiblo.

It

mot be reconnised that this currentine would not be

for meting and searching Cuban, and, 11 secery

whether they are engued la running arms, equipment,

and me to latin Anurtes.

(I) Inly roonition of the dodoes smi

fonta virm onto muld sulet ons ollerto minet

Cotro, To stromly ant! Cutre fovermote voul

Do anded to the support of the us 1s the Old und

SEGREN

KUNE!

SES.2

WH 50955 DocId: 32423815

Page 10

---

## Page 11

EGiE

(3)

Appropriate Latin Anerican countries should

be encouraged to offer support and mustatance, Ineluding

banes, to reuponsible Cuban exile groupe to permit them

to operate agalant Cantro.

(4) Ostwide or bilateral agreements with Latin

American governments should be negotiated for Joint

messures,

to detoct and to prevent arm muggling by

land, men, or air Into latin America.

Beoaune of the

urgency of the threat, Venesuela should be given first

priority and every effort be made to build up Venezuela

no a decisive defeat for communion in Latin Anerica.

(5) We should strengthen on uite program to increase

the antisubversion capabilities in tho Latin American

countries.

At present, the Communiet and Castroite

groupe in most Latin Anerican countries are not large,

and for the most part they are dimorganised and poorly

equipped.

Rowever, the capabilities of the governmente

of the area for detecting and coping with infiltration,

subversion, and armed upriaing are very low.

(6) We should attract world attention to Venezuelan

efforts to expose the Castro regime for ito plota and

acts of mubversion againut Latin Anerican governments

and to help provide a legul basis for collective actioi

DISMOND FITZGERALD

Chief, Special Affaire

BEAII, DDP

CHOKETIR L. COOPIR

Assistant

Deputy Director

(Intelligence), (Policy Dupport)

. +=

Attachment:

TAb A

-10

schles

WH 50955

DocId: 32423815

Page 11

---

## Page 12

irat

SUBJECT:

Suggestion for Additional Administration

Statements

on Cuba to Btimulate Antl Castri

Action on

the

• Part of Dissident Elementa

is.

the Cuban

Armed Forces

1.

The

uitimate objective of our covert action

PLOGIA

directed against Cuba

is to

create

the conditions wulch wl.1

stimulate non-Communist dissident elemente in the arned forces

and other power centers of the regime to carry out a couy feust

the Castro/Communist leadership and elininate the Sino-Bovle!

presence from Cube.

With this objective in mind, CH iss

established and is seeking intensivoly to expand

contncts with

disaffected senior military officors in the Cuban arned forces.

In so doing,

ith which

these contacts insist on personal and politicel assuinces from

the United States as a prerequisite to active conspincy against

the Castro/Communiet entourage.

These non- Communlai

rissident Cubana argue that there is no personal advantage or

patriotic incentive for them to overthiow Castro when: (1) they

run the great risk of being liquidated themselves as high oif-

sinle in that regime and (2) there 1a a likelthood that

the

clitical clock will be turned back and Cube will again fall

inder tie rule of Batiata or someone akin to him.

They assert

that: ther

muet have solemn assurances from high level U.S.

spokesnen, especially the President, that the United States

will exer: its decisive influence during and immediatoly after

the coup to prevent their personal liquidation and a political

regression.

CIA has attepted in a soneral

and sexy limited mance:

Li: provide these assurances

but it

renaina for the President

and

other Administration spokegmen

instill & genulne senee uf

tos, comaltment to our efforts.

President Kennedy's speech in

the

Inter-American Press Association on 18 November alluded i.

this problem when he atatod:

GHOUP :

Excluded iram automatic

detereratine and

Assinssificatien

SECART

KH 50955

DocId: 32423815 Page 12

---

## Page 13

"No Cuban need feel trapped between

dependence on the broken promises of torego

Communism and the hostility of the rest of •

the hemisphere. Yor once Cuban

sovereianty

has beon restored we will extend the band

of

friendship and assistance to a Cube whoge

political and economic institutions have

been shaped by the will of the Cuban people."

3.

Our Station In Miami reports that exile conserva

tives were depressed because they interpreted this passage

as U.S. willingness to accept "Fideliano without Fidel,

while leftlet orlented groups were encouraged to believe

that "anti-Communiet progressive and revolutionary elements"

have the support of the U.8. Government. These Cuban

exile reactions, however, cannot be taken as reflecting

the views of people inside Cuba.

that they become oversensitive to the innuendoes of

official public statements bearing upon their problems.

Within Cuba, we belleve that President Kennedy's statement

probably contributed elgnificantly to providing polltical

assurances to the rolatively small number of potential

coupsters to whom these remarks are addressed.

belleve that action may be expected to follow only when

these assurances are coupled with open recognition tron

authoritative U.S. spokesmen that many Cuband now serving

In" the armed forces and other power centers of the Cratro

regime will have to play a major role in its overthcow,

These people need to be assured that the United States

sympathetic to the personal problems they will face in the

event of a successful coup.

To meet this and related

problens, we recommend that the following passages be

given some prominence in a Presidential prees conference,

declaration or speech at the earliest appropriate occaajor:

"There are many in the ranke of the Cubai

armed forces,

in the Cuban Government itself.

who have viewed with sorrow and anger the end o1

Cuban liberty,

the subjugation of the Cuban natio

to another state

and to a foreign idoolosy that in

alien to Cuba's

authentic nationaliat and

denccretle

sentiments.

richie its

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32423815

Page 13

---

## Page 14

3

"To these men I say the United States is

ready to welcome to discussion without rancor

and without reprisal a non-Communist Cuban

leadership which truly represents the will of

the Cuban people to strike down the barrier

of Soviet domination, renounce Communism as a

way of life and re-enter the community of

American republics.

We recognize that many

non- Communist Cubans who now appoar to be a

part of the machinery of tyranny, will ulti

matoly be instruments in destroying it. and

for this reason should be entitled to special

constderation."

The President may also wish to refer te a speech

celebrating the return of the Brigade members delivered by

President Kennedy at the Orange Bowl on 29 December 1902

at which tine he declared:

*Under the Altanza pare el Progreso, we

support for Cuba and for all the countries of

thia hemisphore the right of free elections

and the free exercise of basic nunan freedome:

We support land refor and the right of every

campesino

to own the land he tills. We support

the effort of every free nation to pursue

prograns of economic progress.

We support

the

right of every free people to

freely transform

the economic and political institutions

of society

so that they may serve the welfare of all. and

I belleve these are the principles of the great

majority of Cuban people today, and I an confident

that all over the island of Cuba, in the goveriment

Itself, In the army,

and In the mititia,

there are

many who have viewed with dismay the destruction

of freedom on their Island and who are determined

to restore

i that freedon so that the Cuban peopte

may once more govern themselves."

(Underlining ours.)

The President might note that in the intervening year the

prospects have improved for a return of Cuba to the OAS

fanily of antions and he looks forward to that day with

confidence.

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423815

Page 14

---

