# 198-10005-10018

## Page 1

198-10005-10018

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ARMY

198-10005-10018

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

MULTIPLE

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES: 123

SUBJECTS:

ARMS SMUGGLING, CUBA

LATIN AMERICA SECURITY

CUBAN SPONSORED SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 30. Assorted documents related to Cuban material support of

Communist subversives in Latin America.

JFK Records Reurend

E Exciude D Exemp

v9.1

NN 50955

DooId:32423736

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

ARMS SHIPMENTS - TO

AND FROM CUBA

HH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

ANNE EU

Ams mugging is one of the "facts of lure" in lotte

Arerica and has hora engaged la by dloctorat atementa for mony years,,

Reporte of Cartro involvment in thoso petivittes have been Crement aince

chartly biter hts antauro

gover corly in 1959: Lone of theao reporte

has ever beca prove

Westla

the amir of lango quantities of Soviet Bloc

cis is 196%, Cuba recovered all U.So ars da the hand of the poplace

end nate it a ento munishable by deash to bove pessonaton ol' soapons of

1.0, me

The U.S, ams furtshed under the MAP to former Cuhan

thor with those collocted by Castro provide the Contro

tch coula be chiozed to mtvezatve roups

atittsation of thabe amo vitt Caba monta to

La other countries:

merely disticult.

2

MENONE OC

Lochod, of Onezy

tos

Tito Dob containe dive item: (1) To zeports allenging amos

smuggling by fiberaon and by nons of food products abinned to

Latin Anorton; (2) A roport whleh indeptes that a Cahes erna

ancho discenored in Brasit do not of Cubnn eniging and (3) Tuo

reparta concerning & Cuban ezberad puportedly being used to

mpply am for ap lamaion of son Caribbean country or en

Javasion of Couth Anaster,

303

Into Bot

noon of ibenn zegorting ana smsaling to

Acadias;

It car

Penana, Venernels, British Cutena end

Breail, Note particulerty the top sten in which the Britich

Indicate the numerous reporto on soms smuscline to British

SECRET

ATHT

60955 Do01d:32123736

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Culms one without foundatton and the second itea which

refutes the report containod in the Into Mugazine artleto

SECRET.

ATHT

50955

DooId: 32423736

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 5

---

## Page 6

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

contains information altecting

the transmission or revelation

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

National Defensee to the

United

erich is Drohibited

the EspIonage bama: Tille 18, U.S.G S068.

by later.

GLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA/ LATIN

AMERICA

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/653, 152

• DATE DISTR. 6 FEBRUARY 1963

POSSIBLE CONCEALMENT OF WEAPONS

FOR SHIPMENT TO LATIN AMERICA

Mif It anapart saggio" tate: 999: 50417929

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

LATE 1962

REFERENCES

IN

62553

35871

INFO.

PLACE &

UNITED STATES (4 FEBRUARY 1963)

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

6

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

U.S. OWNER (C) OF A MARINA,

FROM A FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE OFFICER,

FROM THE BROTHER OF AN EMPLOYEE OF A CANNERY IN SAN CRISTOBAL.

C

1. IN LATE 1962 A DAY-SHIFT EMPLOYEE AT A CANNERY IN SAN

CRISTOBAL,.

PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE. FOUND A HAND GRENADE WRAPPED

IN NYLON AND BEDDED IN SHREDDEDCOCONUT IN A CAN WHICH HAD FELT.

UNUSUALLY HEAVY. (FIELD COMMENT: IT IS NOT CLEAR WHETHER THE

CAN HAD GONE THROUGH THE CANNING PROCESS AND HAD BEEN SEALED.)

•AS A RESULT OF HIS DISCOVERY THE WORKER WAS ALMOST FIRED. ONE

OF THE MILITIA GUARDS AT THE CANNERY SAID THAT AMMUNITION AND

OTHER EQUIPMENT IS REGULARLÝ CANNED AND SHIPPED TO LATIN

STATE/INR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

AMERICAN COUNTRIES. A SPECIAL NIGHT SHIFT WORKS AT THE PLANT.

2. (FIELD COMMENT: AN UNTESTED SOURCE REPORTED IN EARLY

OCTOBER 1962 THAT IN JULY 1962. A STORY WAS CIRCULATING IN SAN.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP!

¡Encluded from automatis

downgrading and

deelassification

ARMY/ACSI NAVY

AIR

JCS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

SECDEF NSA NIC XANY USIA

oct

00

ONE OCR

ORR 081.

FBI

REPCINCLANT

INS

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM IKA ORSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITTONS.

(15-20)

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-

CONTROLLED DISSEM

62553

LIN

TDCS DB-3/653,152

35871

PAGE

ANDRES. AN ISLAND POSSESSION OF COLOMBIA, THAT A PISTOL 'HAD

BEEN FOUND FARLIER CONCEALED INSIDE A FROZEN CHICKEN WHICH

HAD BEEN PART OF A SHIPMENT RECEIVED FROM CUBA.)

3. FIELD DISSEM:

CINCARIB, CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSISICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-C-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-I

CONTROLLED DISSEM

1: 4

HT 50955

DooId: 32423736 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

NO FOrm. @iSSEM

An airs cache of vospons and amunition recently discovered at the

Idge Camponosas guerrilla training center in the interior of the

Erasiltan state of Colas 16 believod by US Irbosay and CAS officero to

Do of Drez17inn rether then Cuban ars, desyite a Braztllen nevepsyer

suggestion that they were Cuben. Thore vere aleo discovered about 125

copted of Commntst publiostions inoluding Che Quevara's sall-lnown

treatise en "Guerrilla Vertore", The training center was described as

organised secording to that book. A confidantial report on the decoveries

added that "nonbire of the center want to be the Braaitten eguivalent

of those who fought in the Sierre Hoostre and so bring the hard Chinese»

Cubin type revolution to Brnztl." Sone 90 to 95 parsons in the locality

and reported nonbers of on sympathetile to the Lisas Camponedad activities,

but only 2 of the 2i for vhon voments wore isued have yet been talen

into custody. (Am Emb

LO Decenter, CONFIDENTIAL,

and

12 December, SECRET NOTORIN)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HT 50955

DooId: 32423736

Page 8

---

## Page 9

FORMATION

"DRU

CENTRAL IN'ELIGENCE AGENCY Ey part

rev.

=matoral contains information alecting the National Dalenso of tho Unitod States Mithia the moaning of '

Espionase .L052

Y8.O. Beca. 703 and 104, the tratmision or novalation of taich in any manner: to

unauthorised parson la projibite

by daw.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

c'it

COUNTRY

Cuba/USSR/Latin America

REPORT NO.

CS -3/530,898

11 December 1962

SUBJECT

: 1.

Use of Soviet Fishing Boats

DATE DISTR

to Transport Arms to Latin

America

2.

NO. PAGES

Belgian Arms Dealer in Habana

Paras.

1 & 2:

October 1962;

REFERENCES

Para.

3:

August 1962

RD -W-2107

RD-ACQ-01258

JATE OF

Paras.

1,

2:

france,

Paris;

NFO.

Para. 3:

Spain,

Madrid

LACE &

Paras.

1, 2:

23 November 1962;

• 38957

PATE ACQ.

Para.

THIS IS

3:

12 October 1962

FIELD REPORT NO.

UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

¡OURCE:

Paras.

1 & 2:

An official French servicé; Para. 3:

CC-1197,

Cuban refugee (F), a former employee of the Cuban diplomatio

service, who visited Santiago de Cuba in August 1962,

Appraisal of Content: 3.

3.

Soviet fishing boats, under cover of fishing Atlantic waters,

are transporting contraband arms to Latin American countries.

The boats are met outside the territorial waters of those

countries,

arms are transferred in small quantities.

On board the Soviet boats

are only Soviets and a very few

Cubans or other Latin Americans who talk with those who

pick up the arms.

The arms being delivered are of American

manufacture,

including those obtained during

the Batista

regime and those taken during the Playa Giron

invasion.

Soviet fishing boats also carry propaganda and pamphlets

containing. military instructions,

the same type of material

being sent by diplomatic pouch from Mexico.

• A Belgian in Habana who says he represents a Belgian firm,

has offered the Cuban Government any type and nationality

of arms for payment in dollars:

The Belgian has made a

Similar offer of sale of arms to a representative of an

anti-Castro group in Habana.

In August 1962 a fisherman in Santiago de Cuba said that

on several occasions he had been forced by the Government

to use his boat for transporting small groups of men, in

civilian clothes, and supplies of arms:

He also knew of

other fishermen who had been forced to do the same. The men

and arms were carried to small islands or transferred to other

boats at sea.

Such trips sometimes lasted as long as four or

five days.

The fisherman did not know

the purpose of

destination of the men and arms.

NO

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

X

ARMY

X/ NAVY

X AR

INSA

REPCINCLANT CINCARIB #

COAST GUARD

(Notes Washington distribution indieated by ey, Field distribution by fas

X

JOCR

RM

ATION

REPURI

COURT

damprading,

declensitration

DIA

X

_FBI

TANG X

12

LU WORT

HW 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CIA INFORMATION REPORT

Explant s Re

COUNTRY: CUBA

GS-3/532,138

26 December 1962

SUBJECT: IDENTIFICATION OF CUBAN VESSELS ALLEGEDLY PREPARED TO INVADE A

CARIBBEAN COUNTRY

DATE OF INFO: 28 NOVEMBER 1962

SOURCE: TRAVELING SALESMAN (F)

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 3

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 10

---

## Page 11

AIMS SHIPMENTS

CONFIDENTIAL

CONPIDENTIAI

CUBA -

Stockpilo of liar saarel for litan.

America (0)

I9 Janary 1952

Larly Jannery 1952

Habunay c/aT January 6a

I83 326/3506062

303

20J 43062

In Dourco roporta an arcani ds stockpiling of wor materiel at Casablenda,

Habana Distalot, borthcast shore of Echana 100, Sobasa Provinco.

Zo Scuros has hoard this materiel 1e targetod

for an Invasion ol Scata Farica.

DONORADED AT 32 YEA

PUNKS NOT AST

KITICALLY DACHISSIFIDO

• DUD DIR 5200.10

CONFIDE ILL

UNFUE NAN

BRANCH

N# 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 11

---

## Page 12

C

Venezuela Uncovers Communist. Arms Cache

The Venezuelan Government - in a raid on a small

village near Caracas on 5 January - uncovered &

large cache

of arms and equipment which it claing

belonged to the pro-Castro Armed Forces of National

Liberation, reputed to be emerging as a para-

military arm of the Venezuelan Communist Party.

Several tons of explosives and large quantities

of hand bombs, arms, and ammunition were seized a well

nearby clandestine Communist radio

transmitter. (SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

SOURCE:

TDCS 533,071 (S/ND); FBIS (OUO) ; PRESS

C

10 Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

SECRET-NE FO RENEN DISSEM

Page

9

7TH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 12

---

## Page 13

IT 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 13

---

## Page 14

ARME SHIPMENTS

12 Feb 63 "All the information available to Her Majesty' a Government

and to the British authoritles in British Gulane indicates that there ts

no truth whetever in the contiming reporte that arme are being shipped

to the colony from Cuba. Sinilar stories hove appeared fron time to time

In the past, but upon examination all have been found to be without

foundation."

(British Embaasy in US to Reuters,

AP and UPI).

IT 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page

14

---

## Page 15

I2 v'ebruary

and prose Go been to ran 5a

the batten capto see a to spendata loo:

sipe put out trocuese, (Cube) andylaat voos with Sole

loaded with voapone sent br Gaetro to Dritish Qulana.d

2.

A debriod

pert of a Cuban natoral who arciped as Port EverElaxe

on 20 Jaraory (960 coraned tro following Peteroents

"I wan told by me analitare only inapactor for the Port of Havana

that no 10 Jumary 1963 two taunches captalood by a man we Maat

appenero to be an icalien ascent had Caparted from the La: Coubre

vhart Olaraba). Manitent on chap lodicated the contination sa

Moment, the sAlp Inesector had boon told by the

Stavadoree de to shori diet tub trucetee vero icaded vito grint

and the true satanion was Vereruel.

TD/0C-X-3249326 DTO 2013052

3. The tollovine infor pation inas rolez to thie arme antpmoot.

Rested CLA courso, a rember of the Communist Party of Colombia in

Calt, has etated bet daring a convornation on S January 196) between

Ariado de

Joans Capace, member of the Pepartment of Valle Raglonal

Commutes A the Communtet Party of Cotoss: (PCC), and P.I. 2943a,

& Cuban deep-cover agens working with the Seventh of huary Worr

Student - Poasant Moyement (MOZG), In Colomble and Vonszuola, Plate

nald that the Molo tod accal movement bus rather a vart alo a9ia

Americao coneept anic do being anstatod by Castro and the Cuban Governe

ment He seld he has baenda Call tor one year on a apocial asstannent

fron tha too leadera ta Cuba to neo that arto, propagaada, and tontrade

done from Venusuela, Originating in Cuba, ge? Into the hands of the MoDe

groupa.

4.

Pada cold on portre it cheat for MOse te due to arrive from

Vase coold die Cocka

Rectaco bias

To on the Mene melan hardar end

Is a treamontes

0034s 63/20/H0-0-2107

---

## Page 16

SECREN

3. Another roport may nine zoior to dalo ormo oliment. Aecording

to infermntios daled l Jobreary 1968 trem a CLA penreo and eppraseod

by the CLA preporing aílieo se pobolblo tre. PodrO MATOS, oho

fegother wich tho throomembot roglongl oesnmand commistee of the

Partido Comutoto do Voncesela (PGV) ta tho olata ol Zalis 10

rospeneible for PCV astal mellaro in that orafs, enid reconsly that

Bão party lo amaloag a dulpucal el anroo 880sa Osla anl Ponema Lal

cont tho cenai dsto cl astival 1o c24u ualmascia.

CIA Ropems TDCS-3/586, 048, di8 9 Veh 68 Bot D0 64076

6. Meplles to DIA SICR'o sa iMo enbjeet frem NSA and CNO do not

Indiento say vesoels departlng llovana on co aner lê Jamary bonnd

fos iriilol Qulans, nos do Blate Deptrtmest gerteo to Goorgotewn,

Drifteh Ostans Indieate ths ursival al any urmo.. No teperts lavo

boen zeonived trom servieo attachoo in Vonessela os Erem beurces in

Panams coneorning this partienlur matter.

Prolon oussers

Can Bortea

SECREU

---

## Page 17

TELEGRA

VARINFOR

MATION REPORT TELECRAMI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

"ranbmission or revelation

National Defanse of the

which in any. manner lo an unauthoried

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

(Whom Filled 1161

NO FOREIGN

LiON

COUNTRY NICARAGUAD

HONDURAS-/ COSTATRICA / CUBA

SUBJECT PLANS TO LAND ARMS FROM. CUBA IN HONDURAS

DATE OF

• 9 JANUARY 1963

Export

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

•NIGARAGUA, MANAGUA (15 JANUARY 1963) :

APPRAISAL 3

REPORT NO. TDES -3/534,035

DATE DISTR. 16 JANUARY 1963

S. PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE: "

REFERENCSS

1N 50511

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE

OPERATIONS ARLA

1• ON 9 JANUARY 1963 CESAR AUGUSTO VILLAREAL CABEZÃS, A NICARAGUAR

REVOLUTIONARY LIVING IN SAN JOSE, SAID THAT HE WAS AWAITING INSTRUC

¡IONS TO GO TO PUERTO CORTES, HONDURAS TO RECEIVE A SHIPMENT OF ARMS

WHICH WILL COME FROM CUBA ON THE "CORK_C", A MERCHANT VESSEL OF. UNKNOWN

REGISTRY.: HE SAID THAT THE INSTRUCTIONS: TO GO TO PUERTO CORTES WILL

COME FROM CUBA THROUGH DR. EMILITO ORTEGA TAPIA.

• 2. ' THE "CORK_C" WILL UNLOAD THE ARMS AT CAYO COCHINO WHERE THEY.

WILL BE RECEIVED BY GRIFFIN (FNU), WHO LIVES IN PUERTO CORTES.

GRIFFIN WILL DELIVER, THE ARMS TO VILLAREAL AT PUERTO CORTES.

THE ARMS WILL BE TAKEN FROM PUERTO CORTES TO PUEBLO NUEVO,

CONFIDENTIAL

NAVY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

11584

downgradug and

dectossfearon

STATE/INA

STATE/DIR

TELEG

DA

SECDEF

NSA: NIC

AID

USIAL OCI

ONE

OCR

ORR

081

00

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

IN

-8112

DAFIDENTIAL

(35m.

0000:

IN 50955 DooId: 32423736 Page 17

---

## Page 18

COMAIDENAAL

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

NO FONEION DISSEN

TDCS-3/534,035

58511

PAGE 2

NICARAGUA BY VILLAREAL, JULTO VELASQUEZ VELEZ; AND 'DR. HERNAN SILVA

ARGUELLO WHERE, THEY WILL BE TURNED OVER TO DR. EMILIO FLORES OBREGON.

4. I SOURCE COMMENT: THE DATE OF ARRIVAL. OF THE "CORK C" IS UN-

KNOWN. CARLOS FONSECA AMADOR, NICARAGUAN COMMUNIST GUERRILLA LEADER

IN HONDURAS,: HAS RECEIVED ARMS FROM CUBA BY THE SAME SYSTEM.)

FIELD DISSEM: STATE: ARMY CINCARIB CINCLANT

ACTION:

INFO

DA IN

ACSI,

DCSOP

8112

NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD

CONFIDENTIAL

Pera fina

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL

0000

NN 50955 DocId: 32123736 Page 18

---

## Page 19

ECI

NFORMATION

REPORT TELE

GRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

no 794, the transmissior

tho transmition rio novation of ation one fa the beived Sed berto i be moonid on, so Espionago Lame, Tillo in US Seca

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

(Wich Filled In2)

1953 FED 9 11 41

NTRY

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/536,942

DIAAP-3

PC::

BLE SHIPMENT

ARMS

FROM CUBA AND

DATE DISTR.

9 FEBRUARY 1963

PANAMA TO WESTERN VENEZUELA

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

OF

1 FESSUAR: 1963

REFERENCES

IN 64876

VE:..

-JELA: MARACAIBO (1 FEBRUARY 1963) •

E &

DATE ACO.

FIELD REPORT NO. "HVC-2651

APPRAISAL ?

MS IS INFVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SURCE

!. PEDRO MATOS, WHO TOGETHER WITH THREE MEMBER REGIONAL COMMAND

COMMITTEE OF THE PARTIDO COMUNISTA DE VENEZUELA (PCV, COMMUNIST PARTY

OF VENEZUELA) IN THE STATE OF ZULIA IS RESPONSIBLE FOR POV ARMS MATTERS

IN THAT STATE, SAID RECENTLY THAT THE PARTY IS AWAITING A SHIPMENT OF •

ARMS FROM CUBA AND PANAMA BUT THAT THE EXACT DATE OF ARRIVAL IS STILL

UNKNOWA:

DURCE COMMENT: ALTHOUGH THE LOCATIONS OF ARMS ARE KIVOWN

ONLY TO MATOS AND THE REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE

AREA AROUND LA CONCÉPCION AND "LA PAZ; TOWNS APPROXIMATELY SOUTHWEST

DAND WEST, RESPECTIVELY, OF MARACAIBO CITY IN THE DISTRICT OF MARACAIBO,

ARE

SITES). (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO SOURCE, THE REGIONAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

GROUP

Encluded trom outomatre

doungrading ond

declassification

S= CRET

STATE/ INR

STATE/DIR

DIA

ARMY/ACSI, NAVY

AIR

SECDEF

NSA

NIC

410

LUSIA, OCI

OCR

ORR

081

00

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEC

AAP-3

FORM IM

SHEATITE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

7TH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 19

(15-20)

---

## Page 20

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

• Filled In)

TDCS -3/536,942

IN 64876

PAGE

- 2

OMMITTEE OF THE POV IN THE STATE OF ZULIA HAD BEEN DISSOLVED AS OF EARLY

3'63 AND A THREE MEMBER REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED) .

2. FIELD DISSEM:STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

AAP-3

HH 50955 DOrTd: 32423736

Page

20

---

## Page 21

DEPARTHENT OF THE AIR FORCE

STAFF MESSAGE DIVISION

INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 50955 (24 Feb 62) K/eld

ACTION: CIN-17. (18)

RC 41/24 FEB 62

RQ/RO/ RQ

PRIORITY

2319412

RETRANSMITTED TO: SAC, TAGs

CONAD, AFSC,

MATS

(per reg Mr

Kerp-CIN

25Feb62)

AJD: • ARMY-2,

NAVX-2,

CMC-7,

JCS-45, OSD-15

OSD/SLU-1; - STATE-15,

NSA-7

XPD-3, 1S12 FDS-2

112) (RIsd by

• Кеrр-C1N-25Feb02*

TO CSAF WASH DO

1009 TSAr FAG FI BELVOIR VA //PROTECTED//

USAIRAS GUATEMALA BRAZIL VENEZUELA

BT

CONFIDENTIAL XX CITE CHARLIE DASH NINE SGD HARRIS: PARA

MILITARY REP OF EURHPEAN WESTERN NATION ACCREDITED MEXICO,

REPORTED IWO TWO FEB HAVING RECD INFO FROM. TWO DIFFERENT SOURCES. M

THAT CUBAN SHIPLOAD OF ARMS HAD DEPARTED EITHER SANTIAGO DE CUBA

OR BAHIA DE NIPE TWO XERO DEGREE FOUR FIVE MINUTES: NORTH SEVEN FIVE

DEGREES FOUR XERO MINUTES WEST DURING WEEK OF ONE ONE TO ONE SEVEN

FEB PD SHIP REPORTEDLY KEADED FOR BRITISH GUIANA OR NORTHEAST BRAZIL

PD LOCAL EMB INTEL AGENCIES UNABLE CONFIRM PARA SCP DASH THREE

BT

:79fd

2RADM0 00

AURORAR SSAREY

LASSETs

20S 002, 5200:20

ACTION:

INFO

AF,

DCSOP

DA IN 205836

AFHQ NOV 30

: 0-309a

PREVIOUS ZOIIONS OF THIS FORM

MAY DE LSTO

(ARMY ACS ID

ORD

CONFIDENTLAL

Futi

50955

DocId: 32423736

Page

21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

the British consul in Sentiago de Cube has Inforned Washington

and the Governor of British Gulane that two alleged IS eitizens;

John Alron Johnson, aged 53, Bad his vile Margaret Treaces Johnson,,

tere leaving Cube on 31 December on the Cuban VOGGe) BATTA DE MANANA

destined for Georgetown, Eritieh Guinne: On board with then wore 17

codes in their name,

Including tro large mod tratee understood to be

"very aimller to those recently unloaded from a Soviet Uhion ship

in Senttago de Cube,*

"The Fritish connul noted the unlitellhood of

Us citizenat lesving Cube In thie mnner, and the resulting doubt na to

their real identities and intentione. (iritinh Foreign Office to

Nashington, Ho. 9759, 31, December, 2962 (BBORDE))

SECRET

HH 70955

DocId: 32423736

Page 22

---

## Page 23

UNF

R

NA

A Tillo)

N

EP

RU

INFORMITION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cuba/British Guiana

Shiyment of Wespons to British Guiana

C-ON-I-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-I

REPORT.NO.

DATE DISTR.

00-K-3,210,102

21 Feb 62

NO. PAGES

One

REFERENCES

• CD/00 Case

36159

H2/05676/G5

Case

35662 78/IWW/DOM-81/CX

DATE OF

INFO.

, PLACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE:

Dec 1962

-; Dec 1962

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Cuban national, A 12 884 576, who arrived lu the US on 3 Feb 1962.

Source 1s an electrical engineer and advisor to underground groups 1n Cuba.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office

0I preparation. ]

I was advised by a Cuban merchant marine officer that the Cuban freighter,

"Bahta de Nipe" left Cuba for British Guiana on 22 Dec 1961 with a cargo

shipment of weapons. The boxes containing this equipment were stored

In the bottom of the ship's hold and covered with mattresses and canvas.

A cargo of sugar bags was placed on top of the weapons.

end-

50955

32423736

PaTe

23

---

## Page 24

COLONG TIGRAM Department of State

INDICATE, I COLLIO

02147

LTMTIED OFFICIAL USE

30

FEB 6 10 16 AM '63

ACTION:

Amatabassy GEORGETONA

286

EUR

SS

G

SAL

ARA

• UNCLASSIFIED MESSAGE REFERRING

TO THIS MESSAGE BY CITE NUMBER

WILL BE DESIGNATED EFTO

ine Feb 8 edition of WIFE contains story on Cuba with following

caption undar photo of Rugglan freighters

USIA

SCA

I NSC

INR

*CIA

NSA

OSD

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

RMR.

QUOTE

But refugoes aboard the Slirley lykes said two ships put out from

Mariel (Cuba) only last wook with holds loaded with weapons sent by

Castro to British Guiana.

UNQUOTE

Would appreciate any available comment.

END

N

RUSK

ACTION: STATE (ARMY: ACS!)

•INFO

÷: DCSOP, OSA, JES.

DẠ

IN 827722

Drahed bya

Indrandess

Telographle transriaos and

elasallicstian asprovod bys.

,778d

LINITEN OFFICTAT. TISR

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS

COPY IS PROHIBITED

UNLESS UNCLASSIFIED®®

000

PeRM DS-322

20. 120.

7TH 50955 D0010: 32423736

Page 24

---

## Page 25

INCOMING TELEGRAM

Department of State

54

Action

EUR

Info

SS

G

SAL

ARA

USIA

SCA

NSC

INR

CIA

NSA

OSD

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

MR

CONFIDEN ITAL

8 1013

1953

Control:

4682

Rec'd:

February 7, 1963

12:57 PM

FROM:

Georgetown

TO: Secretary of State

NO:

245, February 7, NOON

Reference: Department's 286

February 6.

Neither harbor master nor shipping companies have any

knowledge Cuban ships en route Georgetown. Guiana Import-

Export agents for sales rice Cuba, states it is always

notified as soon as rice ships leave Cuba so that necessary

arrangements at RMB wharf can be made. It denies having

receivéd any notice recently. Governor also reports

negative results his inquiries.

CONGEN has had numerous inquiries AP story mentioned TOUSI

18. Appreciate any clarification (not for release to press)

Department can give.

MELBY

TEK/18

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

ATHT

70955

DonTd: 32423736

Page 25

---

## Page 26

C

FBIS 84 OFFICIAL USE ONLY

AFP IN ENGLISH TO THE FAR EAST 1905 7 FEB 63 E

(EXCERPI) GEORGETOWN--BRITISH GUIANA IN A STATE OF NEAR PANIC

TODAY AFTER NEWSPAPERS AND RADIO STATIONS PUT OUT A

WASHINGTON NEWSPAPER REPORT THAT CUBA WAS SENDING TWO SHIPS

FULL OF SOVIET ARMS TO THIS COUNTRY.

PREMIER CHEDDI JAGAN CALLED

THE REPORT FROM THE WASHINGTON EVENING STAR FANTASTIC AND UNFOUNDED.

A SPOKESMAN IN THE HOME AFFAIRS MINISTRY SAID THE GOVERNMENT

EXPECTED NO ARMS. FROM THE SOVIET UNION OR CUBA.

•7 FEB 749P FG/OP

ATHT

50955

DonTd: 32423736

Page

---

## Page 27

04289

OUTCONG TERAN Department of State ( UPA

CONF DENITAL

FEB 9 11 17 AM °63

59

Orgia

EUR

ACTION:

AnConCen GEORCETOWNT

293

SS

SR

G

SP

SAL

ARA

E

STR

USIA

SCA

INR

CLA

NSA

OSD

ARMY

AVY

AIR

RMR

Urtel 245

intelligence

Washington heretimatina agencies have no information to confirm

alleged munitions shipments from Cuba to Georgetown.

Story originated with caption current edition Llie Magazine to

effect two Russian ships carrying munitions from Marlel, Cuba to Be.

O'Leary of Washington Evening Star apparently seized on life story

as basis Evening Star article. Unlikely any responsible US official

confirm story as O'Leary alleged in article.

I' repeat if Department is asked by press, we plan say we have

no information but are making inquiries.

END

RUSK

Dralled byr

EUR: BNA: RJTepper: Idd

2/8/63

Clarencest

INR - Mr. Packman

- EUR/P - Mr. McGowan

Tolegraphic tonsmission and

classilication approved by:

INR/CS - Mr. Simmons

EURZBNA - M. "ordon Knox

CONFIDENTIAL

CCA - Mr

Follestac

REDRODUCTION FROM THIS

COPY IS PROHIBITED

UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

FORH

- 3.6f-DS-322

HH 50955 DOrTd: 32423736

Page 27

---

## Page 28

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

• INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE:

INPORAAWION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United Sloles wishin the mening of the Espionage Laws, Title

18, U/S.C. Secs. 793 ond 794, the transmission or revelation of which in

any manner lo on unauthorized

person is prohibited by law.

6-0-N-I-I-D-E-XT-T-I-A-1.

Britisa Guiana/Cuna

REPORT NO.

Jagan's Political Econonic Viewpoints, #x- DATE DISTR:

propricuion of Foreign Properties Linica

to Foreiga lia/Futility of Jagan's 5-Jeur NO. PAGES

Plan/Peoples Progressive Party Infiltration

of United Front Arms Snugglius trom Cural REFERENCES

Filariasis Disease Common in Curana faci

00-B.-3,2117,344

11 Jan

63

Thru Oct 62

British Guiana/Thru Det, 62

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Us national, executive 10 a US aluninui company,

Source has trequently traveled

to and within hritish Guiana In connection

with geological surveys for his conpany.

He has known Jagen for about

nine years, and on his latest triy iad several conversations vith Jagan.

3

2

tue basis oi vany conversations with Chechs Jagan (nostly concerning

possible lavestents by my cougany in Britisa Quiana), I an convinced

tiat he is not & Conmunist.. In laçü, Jagan does not know what he is.

He is sinply looking for anyoning new that will help to pull ip nis

icople quickly. In this context he sees Soviet and Chinese Connunist

as the to principal Trentieth Century economic experiments

--/aud as

econonic experiments be is willing to try the...

2.:

In talking with ne, Jagan has naüe clear that he is not a "Castro Iype."

wants help fron abybody. Fue ons thing tust ungut in the future

seriously hinder ila getting econonic aid fron the USSR is that ie

demands that aid be without strings.

30:

4.

Eota Jagan and his Irale Miaister, Ironis Hubbara, nave told se that

Jagan would hesitate to do anything (such as confiscating ioreign pro-

perties in an attempt to incresse revenues which would ofiend the us

or the IN for fear of ruining any fubura chances of obtaining US or UN

Jagan is of course quite conscious that ne la still under the UK

and that it Is therefore unconstitutional for him to expropriate anything.

After British Gulans achieves inuependence, I au confident Jagan would

not expropriate anything if he is getting aid from the US or

the UN -

that 1s, until the money is spont.

It' at any point (after independence)

Jagan is receiving no such aid and has no prospects of receiving such

Liü, then anything could happen. I would, lovever, touper this souewhat

üepressing estimate of Jagan by comenting that in 1953 when he entered

office, he was sowething of a wili-ayeu fanatic without direction.

Since then he has matured considerably.

r0penes

The PPP capability for increasing the industrial wealth of British

Guiana is hopeless.

Jagan Indiscriminately wants all kinds of factories.

His "Five Yoar Plan" 18 no piao at all.

In bis eagerness to do sonething

for British Gujana, agan thinks he ought to build any kind of factory

that, the country does not have.

Winenevor he thinks of sonathing, he

Just telle i subordinate to add

it to the Plan.

But there is no one in

the Jagan soverument whe has done or can no the marketing research, ete.,

which is necessary for any such investment.

C-O-N-I-I-D-F-N-T-I-A-I

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassifcation

STATE

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

AEC

INFORMATION

REPORT

INFORMATION

19(a1p)!

NO DISSEN AEROIN

HH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 28

---

## Page 29

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-L

- 2 -

5..

00-B-3,247,344

In the last elections Jagan ordered some of his (Indian) Peoples

Progressive Party (PPP) supporters to join the United Front farty

(UTP) in order to impress the worlà in general and the US in particular

that democracy In British Guiana was working.

By virtue of the fact

that the UNP membership was "growing,

" It was "obvious" that Jagan

was not a dictator. I was told this by two Indian Guianese who were

working for Jegan.

I was in British Guiana

for about 12 months on my latest trig.

Since much of this time

was devoted to geological surveying in the

hinterland, I was accompanied by an Indian Guianese doctor. A well-

educated man of the upper-middle class, he told me that arms were

being smuggled into the country from

He did not go into any

detail on the subject, but he did mention that his sons, who were

members of the Progressive Youth Organization (PYO) frequently brought

arms into their home,

kept them for a while, and then disposed of them.

The doctor was so much concerned -- and pessimistic - about the

situation that he emigrated from the country shortly after I departed.

Malaria is not a factor

now.

less than 1 percent incidence.

filariasis presents a problem. At first I did not believe it when my

Indian Guianese doctor said that mosquito bites incurred in the day

time were harmless but mosquito bites at night would infect with

filariasis.

After several months in the back country I believed him.

The disease seems to affect women more than men, causing women's legs

to swell.

But the disease's affect on men's sexual organs was not

exactly encouraging. - I never did understand why, but my doctor said

that to be effective in detecting the disease a blood test must be

rade at night (preferably between 11 p.m. and l a.m.), and analyzed

quickly.

If filariasis is treated promptly, a man's sexual prowess

can be saved. We Lound that the disease

the country:

- end

_CONTROTIED DISSEM

C-O-N-I-I-D-E-N-I-I-A-I

NO DISSEM ABROAD

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HW 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 29

---

## Page 30

INFORMATION

EPORT

INFORA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

TION REPORT

This material contains. information affecting the National. Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Lows.: Title

18, U.S.C. Secs: 793 and 784, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unouthorized, person is. prohibited by law.

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-I-I•A-I

COUNTRY

Cuba/British Guiana

REPORT NO

SUBJECT

Shigment of Weapons to British Guiana

DATE DISTR.

• 00-K-3,210, 102

21. Feb 62

NO. PAGES

One

REFERENCES

CD/00 Case

36159 H2/05676/G5

Case 35662 78/Iww/DOM-81/cx

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

Dec 1962

-; Dee 1962

SOURCE:

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Cuban national, A 12 884 576, who arrived in the US on 3 Feb 1962.

Source 1s an electrical engineer and advisor, to underground groups In Cuba.

IThis report was developed by an Aruy representative assigned to the office

of preparation.]

I was advised by a Cuban merchant marine officer that the Cuban freighter,

"Bahia de Nipe" left Cuba for British Gulans on 22 Dec 1961 with a cargo

shipment of weapons. The boxes containing this equipment were stored

in the bottom of the ship's hold and covered with mattresses and canvas.

A cargo of sugar bags was placed on top of the reapons.

-end-

ATHT

50955

DonTd: 32423736

Page 30

---

## Page 31

COMMUNICATIONS

NW 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

RICARLO!

There 1s Little Infomatien amilable on the Costro/Corntrt •

ammunicotton notust with Latin Angitos. Over the pust years tharo

aro tamazous roporto indesting that commintentione fr

032n1ed to

visitore to end tron Cuta, that Chan Iiisastes covo de commitratien

polato for Cantao/Conntet zurertvo brows

in various comtales,

one that dircationg to mibrarsire groups we tronitted by clandestina

rado trounters in Gip Precediag items on racto propagada and

anãs tolpionta, aro altynenta, ani the training de vorsel sa

Cuba are etocoly relatod to countentions.

Infomation on Commist

courtst armatus also are refated to the

quéctias el commedcation.

Thems bave beca sona references to lastatione from Cuba, hoviver,

fuch culcouse in

no available uni copted of thape doomento nade

molishte in the post souta not withstand scrutiny.

ZAB

1 Destronte, Come

34s Cab containe thee Stemo: (1) A goneral coment on electrtesi

commutentions; (2) An 1tm inficattag the use of artaur sadto

otationa for comunteations and (5) A repost of a cloudastine

negatring station da the Doinican Repulse,

ROGUES

Thás Job contadas an item rofurrine to doemento obtainad Cra tho

lano crad

Forta

Intialty, the ferutia proes and Penutan

enttetain indieated these docimento sauved Cartro/Cramine monnor-

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SECRET

chip of a revolution in Baail; horvor, the Biazilion Corrobt

no not tot Jabitse note

i of the docent.

3

This mo ootains illuntrative

of titivellene to and fron

Cuba tho say act as comedore.

This Itea la clozoly selabel to

troval 3ing to

inforuatton on indirtdunts ond for

tratains or propagato.

SECRETI

HH 70955

DocId: 32423736

Page 33

---

## Page 34

NH 50955

DooId: 32423736

Page 34

---

## Page 35

SECRET

ELECIROITKE CONUNIECANIONE

Tere one mmerous ruporte of a highly clanatried nature dondending

electrontes commentions between Cuba and the B100; within Chay and

betwon Cubs nod, Intin Insulen; Bono zeporte infer that Prensa lotine

toadlittea ny do wead foz other than dens purposes and thare sae

frequest zoports oể elandostine raddo instructione to Intin Anonton tron

Cuba and betron @lantectine stations in latin Anaries.

SECRET.

HIST

70955

DooTd: 32123736

Page

35

---

## Page 36

ELECTRONIC COMMUNTCATONS

CONFIDENTIAL

Eport.

CORFIDEHIILI

C034

incho Boyaros hisports dabana Provino (€)

30 canuary 1962

1 01.

Fono

25m20 345453 1962

Mancho Doyanos, Jan 62

10J

30J 316/37-7-52

003

2J533022

Subcourco zoporto 1has tho Soverment of Caba had planos to armarato a

Va sata radio tronmitting station at tha Rancho Boyero Maparty COuts 01

-as 1107, en tho 191a o 2013 01 Jatuay 7952.

Tho praposo of the sation vai to bo corcunication batreco duba ced

Tersolgalue, londuras, os the 2017 Brequenca®

PONTADOS AL 12 IN

INTIVAIS 208 02-

DS3 ZIR 5203-10

COUFIDE

PIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

OPUS BRANCH

NM 50955. DocId:32423736

Page 36

---

## Page 37

ATH ONN

REPOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

F

ORMATION

REP

)RT

This material contains information afecting the Natlonal Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws,

18, U.3.0. Secs. 703 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to ar. unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Dominican Republic/Cuba

Clandestine Radio Receiving

Station in Santo Domingo

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

CS-3/535,788

1 February 1963

1

REFERENCES

RD

C

DATE OF

22 January 1963

INFO.

PLACE &

Dominican Republic, Santo Domingo

DATE ACQ. 22 January 1963

FIELD REPORT NO. HDC- 553

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

Foreign businessman (B) with good contacts in Dominican

political circles. Appraisal of Content: 3.

One of the under-cover receiving stations for radio messages

from Habana is believed to be in a house at Calle Espaillat 56.

The house is occupied by Johnson (fnu), who has an electrician's

repair shop there.

Headquarters. Comment.

Johnson (fnu) is probably identifiable

with the Johnson (fnu) reported by another source as a Com-

munist member of the Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio

(APCJ - 14th of June Political Group). See CS-3/511,814, of

24 May 1962. Also see CS-3/528,287, of 14 November 1962, from

an official British service, which reports on a clandestine

group of pro- Castro Dominicans who are in radio contact with

Habana from a repair shop in Santo Domingo.

B2220S

ATHT

50955

DoCT: 32423736

Page 37

---

## Page 38

17H 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 38

---

## Page 39

SECRET

NO FORE CLEM

The

bos reported that nome eftorbe

may be made to put pressuro on Prosident Goulart to pubitoly take some

note of the Cuban Intervention In Franil's internal atfairs, allegedly

shom by some 16 vaget of Spanish-luiguage documente found in the

Verts plane ersh wich corted a Cuban delegation to thetz doaths in

Mononber. The documante are considered by a Arostitan source who mado

then eratiable to the CIA station to he "explosive, since tley prove

the Cubans ice aponsoring revolution in Brazil." Paraphrases of those

doguments have appeared in the Lins press; but it le unttkely that

Prosident Goulart will sive any support to publicizing them.

TY 43586, & Jenuary, SECRET NOTORY)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 39

---

## Page 40

NW 50955

DocId: 32423736

Pare 40

---

## Page 41

NFORMATION

REP

ORT

MINE

ATIO

IN

REPO

RT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

T'his material contains information affecting the Natlonal Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

i8, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation

of which' in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

Paraguay/ Cuba

REPORT NO.

CS - 3/536, 45%

SUBJECT

Paraguayan Travelers to and

From Cuba

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

7 February 1963

2

REFERENCES

RD

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

December 1962 - 20 January 1963

Paraguay: Asuncion

24 January 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. RYA -833

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

Paraguayan security officer (B) from a member of the Paraguayan

Communist Party (C). Appraisal of Content: 2.

1: On about: 20 January 1963 Cantero: a leader of the Partidc

Comunista Paraguayo (PCP - Paraguayan Communist Party) in

Paraguay I met with five rural leaders of the PCP from he

areas of Villarrica, Concepcion, Piribebuy: Tebycuarymi, and

Guarambare:

These leaders received political instructions

from

the PCP for their trip to Cuba, where they

will receive

milirary and polifical training in rural organizatien.

Lopez (fnu)2 is the leader from Piribebuy and Ignacio

Acosta3

is the leader from Tebycuarymi.

Federico Tatter, a retired ensign in the Paraguayan Navy:

entered Paraguay from Cuba in the first balf of December

to

assume military direction of the Frente Unido de Liberacion

Nacional (FULNA * United Front for National Liberation):

3.

Aribal Garcete4 tos ceturned to Paraguay from Cuba to organize

the sugar- cane workers.

Garcete is a PCP member masquerading

...as a member of the Colorado Party.

1.

Field Comment,

Cantero is the PCP pseudonym of a person

whose true name is unknown,

Source Comments

?. Lopez was born about 1937.

3. Acosta is a cousin of Wigberto Acosta, a long-time

member of the PCP.

5

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 41

---

## Page 42

S-E-C-R-ET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-3/536, 454

* Corneat.

Been

Nigberso

Acosta was reported in June 1960

PCP nonbes active in the labor dispute in

3X C6

"volving the sugar cane worker's

mand for higher salaries.

Source Comment.

the Pedero:

farte was mentioned in confidential

which time he was an officer in

or bear Cane Workers.

C

ITT 50955

DonTd: 32423736

Page 42

---

## Page 43

SECRET NO TO WISEM

On 4 Décember braatitan President Goulart telephoned General Alves,

commander of the First Amy with headquarters in Rio de Janeiro and

the highest ranking extrone leftist in the Beatitan anned forcos. ' te

told Aives to choose four on flve Junior officers of his absolute cou

fidence to ascort certais propte who vete ariving fron Cube vie Bolivia.

doulart enta the people were coning with "much material." (CIA, $ao

Paulo, IN 30353, 6 Decenter, SENSE IOFЭTUY)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HH 50955

DocId: 32123736

Page 13

---

## Page 44

SECRET

NO FOrCiC? e'SSEM

Eight Dominican pro-Castro leaders vero aboarä the Czech airlines

211ght to Cuba Which transitaà Shannon Airport on 14 December, nocording

to on official Irish bervice, The Doninicant Included Maximo Lopez

Moltna; Tons Parvento Ertetoon, and Quatavo Ricart, leadere of the

outlaved Dominican Popular Novement (MPD), one of the nost ective pro-

Communiot groups in the Donintean Republe. Tho eight. Dominionne were

anong the ten who vere deported from the Dontnicon Repubile to Trance

enrider the yest. Anothez source reported last Novsmber that the Cuban

abancedor in Perie had & necting with the ten Dominican deportees to

decuse belping them travel to Cube without paasports.

21. Decenber; SECRIT/10 FORNICY DISHEd)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HH 70955

DocId: 32423736

Page 44

---

## Page 45

Proner Castro 1a to deliver the elosing apeech at the Congreas

of Women of the Americes on 15 January in Havane, Havona Radio

announced that the congreos, acheduled to begin I1 Jonary, will be

attended by more then 200 delegates from Istin Anerton, the U. 8.,

and Canada, ns vell as by queute from mny other non-American countries.

Delegations fron Comnist Chinty Albania, Czechoslovakta, Worth lorea,

and Worth Vietnam arrived In Havans on 9 Jamary. (7836 03 and 51,

10 January, OPTICIAL USE ONLA)

ATHT

50955

DonTA: 32423736

Page

45

---

## Page 46

SABOTAGE

NH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 46

---

## Page 47

BARONACE

A maber of acts of anbotage have been committed in vartour latin

Americon statos, Whore

te no conelusive evidence orallable to lint

these sets

i of sabotago sita the Contro/Comudet amaratuo.

Portions on trining inteste that cabotago fe being teught to

tandnese Sa Cubo.

FAS

2

Reparte of Mabetage

Trite Jab contains four Items: (2) A roport that Cube ta training

personnel, for sabotage mastons in the U.5.$ (2) A report that

Donutcans ere leaving Cuba to abotage cene f10108 in the

Domindean Reyublto; (3) A report on the controverstal osbotage of

the Marscotto osl foldo in Venemell, (lot Substantlated by

evidence avatiable to the U.S.)i and (4) Report of an unaccenasu

attempt to sabotage a bridgo in Venezuola.

mostet Activitlea

mis Jab containe an iten reporting Chetro/Coumntet Inaytred

tarrorist activittee in Veranuela linted to the Maracuido anbotage.

NY 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 47

---

## Page 48

NW 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

An emport Cuban electrical techntcian in the Borjita euger mili

hao told & fonzer close senociate who la nou a rogular clandestine

soured that Cuds le trining personnel in the techniquealot using

explosives prior to vending them to the United States on sabotage missione.

It is intended that such percone will go in the gulee el cati-Commutat

refugeea, and the sabotage v11l be so azzanged that in sone coses te vi1)

be tekon to be morely acoldente: the electrical technician added that

there to e largo Commiet ceptonage ring operating with a ting in the

Untted Staton acrons the border, with several plone already under wey.

(CIA DOP TY 29517, 4 Decenber, SECRET NOFORIN)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

ATT 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 49

---

## Page 50

SECRET,

YA FOREIGN DISSEMI

A Dominion extie la Cuba raportedly tola a source tho uns there

sbout mid-Danonber that Dominican Commnists are leaving Cube for the

Dondnicon Rupubile to sabotage the cane fields there.

31 48599, 12 January, SECRET BOBORE)

SECRETS

"A -PREIGN DISSEM

HH 50955

DooId: 32423736

Page 50

---

## Page 51

COMING TELEGRAM:

42-41

Action

24 X545

- 3

ARA

Into

FROM: CARACAS

TO:

Secretary of State

SS

G

SP

SAL

IO

PR

P

. IOP

INR

NO: : 548, NOVEMBER 3, 9 P.M.

RMR

Depariment of State

CONFIDENTIAL

Control: 1171

Rec'd:

NOVEMBER 3,1962

11:29 P..M.

NIACT

DEPARTMENT PASS CINCARIB, CINCLANT

FOREIGN MINISTER FALCON BRICENO INFORMS ME HE WILL ARRIVE

WASHINGTON SUNDAY NIGHT TO MAKE SPECIAL SPEECH IN OAS/OC

MONDAY RE CUBAN SITUATION UNDERSCORING CUBAN INSPIRED

SUBVERSION AND SABOTAGE AGAINST VENEZUELA.

HE WILL PRESENT INTERCEPTED CABLE TO VENEZUELAN STUDENTS

AND OTHER EVIDENCE WHICH HE HOPES OBTAIN FROM INTERIOR

MINISTRY. HE ASKS IF DEPARTMENT CAN PROVIDE HIM SUNDAY

AT VENEZUELAN EMBASSY WITH TRANSCRIPT. RAUL CASTRO'S

STATEMENT AFTER MARACAIBO SABOTAGE IN WHICH PRESS CLAIMS

RAUL TOOK CUBAN CREDIT FOR INCIDENT.

SUGGEST DEPARTMENT MAKE THIS AND ALL OTHER USEFUL FBIS

INTERCEPTS AS WELL OTHER EVIDENCE AVAILABLE TO HIM.

FALCON'S ARRIVAL NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON WILL BE AVAILABLE

VENEZUELAN' EMBASSY THERE. PLEASE EXTEND COURTESIES.

HE PLANS STAY US ABOUT EIGHT DAYS.

STEWART

SMD

NOTE:

PASSED TO CINCARIB: CINCLANT 11/4/62.

MESSRS. MOSKOWITZ: BOWDLER AND ALLEN (ARA) NOTIFIED

12: 1Д A.Ma, 11/4/62-TEM.

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 51

---

## Page 52

TELEGRAM INGORMATION REPORTI

TELEGRAM

ASD

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

DASD

IN's

793

material

contains information

aflecting

National Defense of the United

and 794, the

within

the

transmission or revelation

of which

moaning

in any manner to

of tha Expronaço Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs.

an unauthorized person is

prohibited

EXEC

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

EUR

NESA

WESUNTRY

FE

SS9

FINECT

FEA

D/AG

DIS

D/FL®

CRATE-OF

PINEO.

PLACE &

¡DATE ACO.

PAPPRAISAL

FOMP

SOURGE

-SECRET

(When Filled In)

Ir.. Reven bed scen

VENEZUELA

CONTINUATION OF COMMUNIST TERRORIST

ACTIVITIES

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/537,176

DATE DISTR.

13' FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

8 AND 12 FEBRUARY 1963

REFERENCES

IN 67419

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (13 FEBRUARY 1963)

OPE

2

FIELD REPORT NO.

HVC 2655

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

PARA 1: FORMER POLICE OFFICIAL (C) WITH CONTACTS IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE

NATIONAL GUARD; PARA 2: U.S. BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE

VENEZUELAN MILITARY.

1: ON THE EVENING OF 8 FEB 63 NATIONAL GUARD SOLDIERS WHO WERE PRO-

-TECTING THE CARACAS-LA GUAIRA TURNPIKE SURPRISED A GROUP OF MEN AT THE

ENTRANCE TO TUNNEL NUMBER 1. WHO WERE ATTEMPTING TO DESTROY TURNPIKE

BRIDGE NUMBER 1. FIRE WAS EXCHANGED FOR ABOUT THIRTY MINUTES. BETWEEN:

THE SOLDIERS AND THE MEN IN THE TUNNEL AND LATER A BOX CONTAINING ABOUT O:

100 POUNDS OF DYNAMITE WAS FOUND BELOW THE BRIDGE.

183:06 w

is."

• 2. TWO CAR LOADS OF GUERILLAS ATTACKED THE NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS•

AT DABAJURO, A PIPE LINE OUTPOST BETWEEN AMUAY, IN THE PARAGUANA

PENINSULA: AND LAKE MARACAMBO, STATE OF ZULIA, IN WESTERN VENEZUELA,

ON 12 FEB. ABOUT 1D@ SHOTS WERE EXCHANGED BUT ALL THE GUERILLAS ESCAPED.

"SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Escated fras outana

does coday

and

DA

IN

STATE/INR

16985

DIA

ARMY/ACSI

NAVY

AIR

ICS

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

SECDEF

NSA NIC AID USIA OCO I ONE.

.. OCR

• 088

087.

EXO

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

SECRET

000

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

(15-30

7TH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 52

---

## Page 53

SEGRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

(When, Filled In)

TDCS - 3/537,176

IN

67419

PAGE

2

3.: (FIELD COMMENT: TERRORIST ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN INCREASING IN

VENEZUELA. SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE FUERZAS ARMADAS DE LIBERACION

NACIONAL (FALN, ARMED. FORCES OF NATIONAL LIBERATION) TOOK TEMPORARY

POSSESION: OF THE OFFICE OF THE PREFECT IN THE TOWN OF SAN DIEGO DE

LOS ALTOS, ABOUT 2D MILES FROM CARACAS, ON 4 FEB. THEY TIED UP THE

POLICEMEN ON: GUARD, STOLE A FEW RIFLES, AND PAINTED THE WALLS WITH ANTI-

GOVERNMENT, SLOGANS. ON. 5 FEB, AN ATTACK WAS MADE ON THE HOME OF COLONEL

JOSE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, COMMANDER OF THE MILITARY TRIBUNAL, LOCATED.

IN A WELL-TO-DO RESIDENTIAL AREA OF CARACAS. THIS WAS FOLLOWED BY ANOTHER

ATTACK ON 12 FEB WHICH RESULTED IN THE GOVERNMENT ESTABLISHING ROAD

LOLOCKS AND SENDING TROOPS AND POLICE INTO THE AREA. ON THE

MORNING OF 9 FEB AN ARMED ATTACK WAS MADE ON THE AMERICAN (PORTION.

GARBLED WILL FWD) WHERE OFFICES WERE SET ON FIRE AND EQUIPMENT DESTROYED.

AND ON THE NIGHT OF 9 FEB SEARS WAREHOUSE IN ANTIMANO WAS COMPLETELY

DESTROYED BY MEMBERS OF THE FALN. THREE BRIDGES ON THE PAN AMERICAN

HIGHWAY, BARQUISIMETO AREA, STATE OF LARA, WERE DAMAGED BY BOMBS.

ON 12 FEB AND AN ATTEMPT, WAS MADE ON THAT DAY TO BLOW UP A CREOLE OIL. LINE

IN CATIA LA MAG, FEDERAL DISTRICT, BUT ONLY ONE SMALL BOMB EXPLODED:

CAUSING MINOR DAMAGES).

4.

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY. NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.

# 5.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: MISSING PORTION: WILL BE DISSEMINATEO ONGY IF IT MATERIALLY

AFFECTS THE SENSE OF THIS REPORT.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NADY, AF, JCS, OSD

215"

CRET

ACTION:

INFO

CS

DA IN: 16985

000

HH 50955 DOrTd: 32423736

Page 53

---

## Page 54

NH

50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 54

---

## Page 55

Extremist And Police Activities In Venezuela

Venezuela has been afflicted over the past several

months with a rash of Castro-Communist terrorist actions:

Many incidents, involving shootings and robberies, are

connected with

the Movement of the Revolutionary Left,

the Venezuelan Communist Party, and the Armed Forces

of National Liberation -

the Castro-Communist group

credited with the destruction at the Maracaibo oil

fields during the Cuban crisis.

These activities are

probably designed

to discredit and weaken the Betan

court Government.

The police have demonstrated considerable proficiency

in preventing major outbreaks and in acting rapidly

to

arrest terrorists.

They have rounded up extremists

responsible for the holdup and looting of a printing

supply warehouse and the burning of the Dupont paint

warehouse and have captured

the Communist leader of

guerrilla bands operating in

the Falcon area of

northwestern Venezuela:

(CONFIDENTIAL

C

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 55

---

## Page 56

COMMUNISI ORGANIZATION

FOR LATIN AMERICA

NH 50955

DocId: 32123736

Page 56

---

## Page 57

SHEREST

CONNUNTEX OFQANIZANION FOR LAIN AMERICA

Inforetion on the Commniet apparatus for latin Aserica and ite

zointionship with Cuba ond the Sino Soviet Bloe le lergely derived from

highly clapsified Intelligence which is movided separately. From the

reports contatned in this section, it may be concluded that the ongonine-

tonnl linte vary fron country to counter depending upon, anone othor

feetera, the legal status of the Comunict party, whother aiplontie

representation to located in a country, the relative atrength of Communist

alliances with other loftiet or opposition parties, and the choreoter of

current goverment lendorahip in these countries. Nost attached de an

unclaneilled report prepared in October for release an a Vhite Paper.

Although this payer ves not released due to the mastle ertals, It repre-

sento on agreed summary (State, DOD, CIA and USIA) of the Commmiet

epparatue in Latin America, Tho report containo briefs on Commatot

actavities in each of the Latin Averlean countries.

The peporte vory with recpect to the country orlority for Caatro/

Communiet action In latin Aneries. Bronil, Veneuele, and Britien Quiena

are montioned nost frequently as the llkely priority targeti. There are

also conflicting reporte on the relative indopendence of Castro tron the

Boviet Union and Indioattone that the publietzed Sino Soviet disagreements

are reflected in loes Conniet organications throughout Tatin Ameries.

ZAB 3

Cuban Relationshins and Poliotes Tovord latta Amertee

This tab conteine relevant excerpts fron the draft flE

now under prepartion. (USID 19 noting on this Itém and

TOP SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 57

---

## Page 58

RAB 2

JAB З

BECKELL

the most current agreed positions will be made avallable

to you in the event there ie my significant chango.) Aleo

Included. at this tab aro a nunber of significent reports

indiesting the probable orientation of Castro/Communiet actions

directed tovard Lotin Americe, The last iton at this tab

summarizes the unsuccessful armed Incuratons of 1959 (Panana,

Ricarague, and Dominicen Republie).

Soviet Aetivities and Conflicta

This tab contains & number of ltens indicating possible Cuben-

Soviet conflicte as reflected in Latin Amerios, The last two

items reflect the concern attached to the posoible establish-

ment of a Soviet flahing port in Cuba.

Situation In latin Americs

thie tab containe a number of current situation and pertinent

background reports on various latin American countries in the

following order; Centrel America, Panama and Menieo; Bolirta;

Bras11 (4); Colonbia; Costa Ricaj Ecundor; Feiti; Mexico) Panamaj

Feru (4); and Venezuela (3).

+2.

ATT 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page

58

---

## Page 59

NEMORANDU! :

4 October 196e

Cuban Subversion in Other: latta Amertean Countries

I.

General

SEIDELW

The Castro regime dentes that ntertal support le being given

ony anti-regins group outaide Cuba, Castra elaims that much asstatance is

unnecessary since the

people of these countrtes, thinks to Cuba's example,

The publicly stated

"the first socialist

state in Ameries," has beeone the exmple, the "beacon". In fact, hovever,

Cuba's moral and material support to Cominist and Commniat-influenced

groupe has been felt in varying degrees in every one of the 19 other Istin

Amertoon repolice.

The Castro regime bas becone an effective instrument

of the Stno-Soviet ettort to weaken and eventuslly destroy democratic

politiesl inctitutions in Iatin America,

2.

mounted expedationary force wan launched agatnet the Dominican Republle and

speller

• "invasion forces" left Cuba for abortive attacke on the govermente

in. three categortes:

The indoctrination end training of bundreds of lotin

Anericans in Cuba;

bo

The intensive propaganda bained at latin Averica, by Cuban

zadio stations and circulated through printed material and

the Cuban cubeidized internattomi "nevs" agency, anô;

C.

The covert interial support siven subveraive groups in

other countries.

II.

Cuban Subversive Programs

A. Trainina of letta Amenicans to Cuba:

3.

Fidel Costzo announced on 9 June 1961 that his goverment would

frant 1,000 scholarships to "poor students"

from other latin Amoricon

countries for tho neit school tern and 100 scholarships to studente from

other countries of the torld: Hundreds of young Jatia Americans have been

subjected to Cormunist indoctrination.

In addition to whatever formal

trining they receive in fuse, mny of thom receive training in guerrila

Forfere end other techniques of zevolution.

Cubon refugees to have arrived recently in. the United States have

these young latin Anericans.

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 59

---

## Page 60

Risi

one refugee; & deserver fron castro's army, reported from

persone: novleage that in late 190l there were a number of students fron

Chile, Ecuador, Argentina, (uatemala, end Brazil Living in a Havana suburo

who rogularly attended clanses in Harxien-Leniniem, propaganda techatgues,

and other subjects to prepare them for active revolutionary roles in their

received faritarization in the use of enall, erns and hiked to the top of

Cuba'a highost mountain, Pico Turquino, in the Sterre Maestra, the locale of

Contro's guerrilla varfure against the Batiste dictatorship.

Another refugee, who lived in Oriente province, leamed from

convercations with nilitia-non in the area and from lotinn Americons training

there that continuous training of studente fron other latin American countries

te going on at las Arenso, Oriente, The trainees receive instruction in

Cormnict Ideology, The refugee did not now bow many Istin Amerloana were

which another group replaced the one that had been trotning.

yach of the travel of Iatin American students to Cuba for traintos

and indoctrination is handled by the Instituto Cubano de Amtetad con los

Puebios (ICAP + Cuban Institute for Frteniahip vith Feoples):

Cube ta also a mojor taleoff point for latin Averteons traveling to

and fron the Sino Soviet bloo, Over 400 Intin Amertcans retured fron last

July"& Commist-sponsored Youth Festived in Helsinki aboard & Soviet yagsenger

vessel with the 400-nan Cuban delegation.

they dleenbarked in Havans and

stayed 1n Cuba tone weeks before some of them begn returning to their home

countries, Othors my well be remintag in Cuba for some time.

Cuban Propaganda :

International brouicaste by Cuban zadto statione mintain e

relatively constant propaganda lovel at all tines, with regularly acheduled

end special broadcoate to epecific countries as vell as general tranemissions

to all of Lstin Americo.

The goneral theme of ell these broadcants 1e

that "the Cuban example" io austening the "people" of Iatin Ameries to

the opportunity for revolutionary action againat the

pover and agotast "Yenkee importalian" which allegedly supports then.

8.

There are regular prograns beared by Harans radio to Nicarague,

the Dondnican Repub11c, Guatemals, Peru, and Honduras. They aze 421

subversive in content and freguently incite to rebellion.

These programs

to specifio countries are apparently Wirected and produced vith the

suidance of exiles from the countries concerned resident in Cuba.

2

HH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 60

---

## Page 61

The program to the Doninican Republle, for Instance, 16 announced

as the progren of the Donnican Iberation Movement (M.D), and the progran

Is entitled Petrie Libre

At precent, Reato Havene berno the 20 minute

Patris Libre progron to the Dominican Republic on Thursdrye and Saturdeya.

Just prior to the program, the hadto Favona amouncor explains that the,

station 1o nakins ite foellities evetlable to the MD for 1te program.

There are done areas in the Dominican Repubile where, due to the cbsence

of local redio stotiona, the Cubon broadcasts ore the only ones heard.

Last July, the subversive content of there broadcante to the Dontaican

Republic led the Dominican government to protest to the Organization of

Americon States:

The content of such broodeaste is etemplified in the steted goale

of the "Voice of Revolutionary Niesraguay

" the progran which le regularly

besied by Rodio Lavana to Nicaragua:

On 31 August thie progran celebrated

its fired anniversery by repeating ite original statement of ite purposes:

"The Votee of Revolutionary Illenrague has set Itoelt the goal

of contributing to pointing out the rent way to Ncaragua"s

Iberation from the dominton of Yankee ingerialiam and the

Somoze tyranny: Electione (scheduled for next lebruary to

choose President Sonoze's succeanor) with the Somozas in pover,

and under the State Department'a seononte and political control.

of Mearagus, vill be & farce. Without. a prior revolutlonary

overthrow of the Sonosa tyrenny there con be no free elections

1n Nicaragua nor cen e populer goverment be establiched. This

program will be at the service of the revolutioneries and

against the electioneero: The Voice of Revolutionary Nicaragus

w11l defend the Cuban revolution because it ie an important

part of the Latin Anaricon people'a liberating revolution."

12. Cuban propogando l0 also dioseminated through the officos of

Presne latins,

the Cuban-subsidized international "news ageacy" which

bas close working relatione with TASS, the lew Chias News Agency, and other

propogonde medie for the Sino-Soviet bloc

Cuban printed utertal te circulated throughout the hemlaphere;

Cho Guevara's bool on guerrille varfare has recoived vide distribution.

Periodically, the Nextean government, most recently lant August, has been

obliged to conflocate large quentities of propongenda mterials from Latin

Americans possing through that country enroute fron Cube to their homelands.

C. Cuben covert support for gubveralve fouga:

13: Cuban covert support for Communtet or pro-Cotundet groups in

other Latin Averton countries is provided in a nuber of ways.

In the five

Latin American countries where Cuban diylonstde nissions are still rasident

(Mexico, Brazil, Uruguey, Chile, and Bolivia), these minions have often

been the channel.

The Cuban empessy in Maxico 1s Inow to have provided

3

ATHT

50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 61

---

## Page 62

fréquent esaistance to extles from Guatennia, Nicarague, and other Central

Amerlean countries living in Mexico. In other instences, assistance 15

provided through travelera coming from Cube and through Prense Latina

representetives.

144

The snaistance lo uouslly financial. The Cubans appear to have

been careru since 1959 to avoid being caught in & blatant act ot subversion

"that could be used to justify concerted Inter-American action.

Financial

essistance 2o often just as usefu and wich lose risky than actua wespons

deliveries: In & number of Anerican countiles, amalt ers and other vespons

are availeble for a price.

Unscrupulous or cureless erns dealers in the US

have also contributed to the arma traffio from which pro-Costro groups have

benefitted, directly or indirectly.

15. As the folloving country-by-country rundown indicates, Cuban support

for subveraive activity has alfected in varying degrees every one of the 19

other Letin Amer ian countries.

Argenting:

Ernesto "Che" Quevara, an Argentine by birth,

has reteined hits deep interest in Argentina's political affatrs. On 25 May,

the Argentine national boliday, he addreased

the group of Argentine citizeus

resident in Cube and told them that he hoped that neit

celebrsting in Argentine under "the flag of soclalies" Yes, they would be

At another point

in this addrece he said! "Our revolution ie one which needs to expand ite

1deas. and other people are helping us. Let the other peoples of the hemisphere

get angry and take up irs or seize power and old un in this task which in

the task of the entire heniophere and of humntty."

Argentine dictator Peron's political machine in Argentina. Cooke continues

active in that faction of the Peronista party wich seeks concerted action

with the Argentine Coummlats.

Cooke malateing reguler contact with syupathizers

Inside and outside Argentina through travelers and through his wife,

Altele Iguren de Cooke, a renident of Monteviãeo, Uruguey, who apparently

has regular noons of comunication with Individuals in Argentina.

Argentine

eitisens have been recruted through this channel to go to Cube for training.

There are elso strong indications thet terrorist activittes by Argentine

Peroniats end Commundats have been encouraged end perhaps ansisted through

this channel:

Prior to the diplonatic break between Argentine and Cuba.

laot, Februaxy, the Cuban enbassy in Buenos Aires provided (inancial aseistence

to ant. government groupe there. An Argentine Joumalist sho has contacts in

the lamniet party there reported lost Decenber, for instance, that the

Argentine Comminist party had receired the sun of 50,000 pedos from the

Cuban cubassy as a contribution to the rollway workers who were then on

strike in the province of Cordoba.

ATHT

50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 62

---

## Page 63

Though the Cuban embassy 1s no longer in Buenos Aires, Cuben

clandestine assistance to Argentine Perontst-Commnist groups continues. On

19 July of this your the federal police in Zuenos Atree reported the un-

earthing of a center of Communiot and Peronist activities in the capital,

Two Buenos Aires policenen were shot and killed at a surburban warehouse in

June. Investigetions revealed that a quantity of explosives and propaganda

were stored in the varehouse.

The trail led to the arrest of one Jose

Maria Aponte, a journalist and known Peronist setiviat, and one Mario

Maest, owner of the firn which oned the warehouse.

It was revealed that

Massi bad been maintaining contect vith Cuben Commnists, with John W1l1lem

Cooke, and with an unidentified voman associated with the Cuban embassy in

Uruguay who was probably Allele Eguren de Cooke referred to above: According

to the Argentine police Investigation, come 150 Argentine citisent had been

sent fron Argentina to Cube (through Uruguay and Mexieo) for training in

guerrilla varfare.

On thel? return to Argentina, these men were to be uned

In planned activities in the provinces of Formosa, Tucumen, Balta, and the

wooded areas of easter Argentina. A number of other individuals were appre

bended by the Argentine police in connection with the subversive activity

revealed in these inveetigations.

Bolivia: Borivia has been the reciplent of special Cuban

attentions. The number of Bolivians receiving "scholerships" in Cuba this

year--between 130 and 150-- appeare disproportionataly high. The Bolivian

government felt objiged to request the departure of Cuben Arbassador Tebares

in 1960 and of Cuban Cherge Garcia Iriane in 1961 for blatent Intervention

In Internal Bolivian affairs, Ineluding vupport for Bolivian Commniate and

attempta to incite extreme leftist members of the governing MUR party to leave

the party. In June 1962, the Bolivian governent publiahed a series of

documente linking the Cuban embessy vith a Commniet conspiracy to seize

control of the government

One of these documents, a statenent by an arrested

Bolivian agitator who had been in close contact with the Cuban embeasy,

gave the names of a nunber of Bolivians who had recelved financial cupport

from the Cuben exbassy -

This evidence was used to justify the request for

the Cuban charge'e recall.

The present Cuban charge In Bollvie, Ranon Aja, has aleo been

active though perheps a bit more disereet than his predecessors. He has

been particularly energette in cultivating relations with Bolivien compeninos.

The peasant unton in the Clize Valley of Bolivie has been reported te be the

recipient of Cuban finencial assistance.

C.

Braztl:

During the pasttwo years the Castro rogine has

developed Inercasingly close ties with Franciaco Juliao, self-proclaimed

Marxist and leader of the Pessant Leagues In the troubled northeant region

of Brezil. Julleo, whose wife and children are resident in Cube, has

traveled there on

severe. occasions, and & number of his associates and rank

and-file merbers of the Leagues have gone to Cube for agricultural

training which le undoubtedly heavily larded with ideological indoctrination.

Transportation direct from northeast Braail to Cuba has been provided by

Subana airlines on st least one occasion. Circumstantial evidence strongly

suggests that Juliao has received financial asalstance for his soverent fron

the Cuban goverment.. Brazilian Commnist leaders have privately stated,

5

HIST

70955 DocId: 32123736

Page

63

---

## Page 64

fact,

that Juliao'e Peasent Lengues have received not only money but also

shipmento of small army from Cube.

These Brazilien Cormnist leadero also

said that the reason Jultoo sent his fantly to Cuba was hie fear that they

night be endengered in the civil tar he expects to erupt shortly in Braall.

The Cuhan goverment has also during the past year cultivated

particularly close relations with leaders of the diseident Communiet Party

of Breatl (CPB): One of the CPB lenders who had visited Cuba lost May

told a friend of a long conversation be had had with Fidel Castro In late

May. Castro expressed identity of feeling with the diantdent Breatllan

Comaniots and eritieized the regular Commist party for its failure "to

take a strong revolutionary itne" in accordance with the decision of the

22ad party congress of the Commaniet party of the Soviet Union.

Castro

approved the insurrectionary polley of the CPB and urged the leaders to

organiae guerrille activities and stort the revolutionary movement in Braall

"as soon as poosthle." Castro edvieed them that government reprisals egoinst

revolutionary ation in Brazil would serve only to increase popular dis

content in Brazil and swell the ranke of the revolutionaries. He advised

CPB leaders to give special emphasia to securing divide a bage as possible

anong agricultural vorkers and the inhabitante of rural areas.

The Cuban embassy in Rio de Jenetro, like Cuban embassies

elsevhere in Latin America, has been a source of assistente to Communiet und

pro Communist elemento.

Labt Mey leaks to the Brazillen press reported dia-

cussions in the Brazilian cabinet on the subveroive activities being directed

by Cuban anbassador Joaquin Hernandes Armse. The Navy and Army Minteters are

reported to have expressed partioular concern over Fernandez* setivities.

d. Chilê: Senator Salvador Allende, lender of Chile's

Commmist dominated popular front and o leading presidential aspirent, has

made at least two tripo to Cuba.

The Cubon embassy in Santiago la the source of propagande

support for pro-Communist groups, mostly those aesociated with Allende, who

are intent on coming to pover in Chile through elections or revolution.

Orlando Prendes, cultural attache of the Cuban embassy, le known to be puper-

vising the printing of Cuban propaganda on a clendestine printing prese in

the home of Julio Bocenegra, who also prints propagenda for the Chilean

Comminist party.

This setivity bas been going on for some time. As long

ago as August, 1961, Chilean offictale Investigating political agitation

and resulting unrest in the Salamance ares learned that after a vialt to the

ares by a Cuban diplomat the previous month, pro-Cuben propagande weo being

distributed in the area, and Comminists and pro-Communists there were soying

"The mountains of Salamance are going to be the Chilean Sierra Maestre."

Last March, when Cuban Minister of Education Armando Fart

went to chile for an international conference he took with him several socke

of propagande.

Colombia: The United Freut for Revolutionary Action (TUAR),

organiaed early this year by Colombian extremiats, 1s believed to have

received finoneial assistance from tube to promote its objective of creating

@ guerrille novement aimed at the overthrow of the government. A Colombian

6

ATHT

50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 64

---

## Page 65

eitizen who has contacte among FUAR membere reported last June that Fidel

• Castro had just given the group $15,000 and

pronised further financial

aid semi-annually.

Cloria dalton de Velencle, the wife of a FUAR leader

and the daughter of the Colombian leader Galtan whose ascessination in

1948 parked the disastrous Bogota zioting, 1e & long-time personal friend

of Eidel Castro.

He has vielted Cube frequently and probably returns to

Colombie with specific advice and assistance from the Cuben government.

The FUAR has succeeded in drawing menbers fron the extrentat wing of the

regular Colombian Commiet party who are dissatistted with that party's

reluctance to engage in ipen revolutionary action.

t. Costa Rice:

The well Costa Rican Commist party, the

Popular Vanguard party (PVP), to charged by the Cuban governent with the

solection of young men to be trained in Cuba, Riboberto Carmone and Jose

Mur111o, PVP menbero, left Costa Rica lest June for tinining under this

program, and PVP leaders had plans for organtaing guerrille training progrons

in Costa Ries under the direction of the Conta Ricans who hod received training

in Cubar

The Dominicen Republle; The provisional Council of State,

which te preparing the country for Its firet free elections this December

In more than 30 years, has been a njor target for Cuben subversion. A

codre of Dominican Coumnlate is headquartered in Cuba, and clandestine con-

tact is probably maintained with sympathizere inside the Doninican Republie.

Brondcaste to the Dominican Republic fron Cuba have helped Anoite the

frequent riote 1a Banto Domingo:

The fact that broadcaste from Cuba have on

occasion referred to very recent events in the Doninicon Republie strongly

suggests the prezence of clandestine radio contacts between the tuo countries.

h. Ecuador: The Comunist party of Ecundor has formed the

nucleus of a smell guerrille organization.

This group wos drawn largely fron

the pro-Castro Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean Youth (URJE), which was

Involved in a two day battle with government forces laat April, The leader

of the April affeir, as well as several other Ecuadoreans Involved in sub

versive activities, has received merrilla training in Cuba. A URJE leader

told & friend lost June that this organization hae ao far in 1962 received

$22,000 in financial ald from the Cuban goverment.

Manuel Araujo Hidalgo, pro-Cormnist former Scundorean Minister

of Interior who has visited Cuba end tho recently traveled in Communist

Chinà,

appears to be working with the URJE. He do reported to have received

- conalderable

enount of money fron the Cuban governent for his effonta,

according to a private statement by the URJE leader.

El Salvadort On 1 March 1961, the Salvadoren goverment

broke relations with the Cantro regime after it had received evidence of

conversation between the Cuban charge, Roberto Lassalle, and leading Salvadoran

Communiste in which lascale urged increased revolutionary activity.

Gustenala: On 5 March 1962, a Cuban arrived in Mexico with a

message for a leader then in Mexico of the Gustemalan Commnist-Influenced

HIST

70955

DooTd: 32423736

Page

65

---

## Page 66

13 Novenber group, which had recently engeged in guerrila activity in

Guetemala.

The Cubon gave him s4, 000 which he seid was the firet Install-

ment of a total of $10,000 to be used to establish a new guerrilla front

La Guatemala. On 8 Merch, Castro's entesary gave the Guatemane the balanne

of the $10,000 and told one of the 13 Novenber leaders that the decision to

provide them with the money was taken by Fidel Castro poreonally. Castro,

ho said, had sent instructions that the group did not have to account for

the money was apent,

that no strings were attached, and that he hopes they

are successful so he can provide them with additional asaistence. Leter the

Cuban enisaary met with leaders in Merieo of the orthodox Cuatenalan

Commniot party.

These Gustemalan Communists had apparently complained that

the Cuban noney was not going to them.

They were told that Castro vinted

the money to go to the 13 November group because thlo group hod demonstrated

Ito capacity to fight the lustenalan goverment, a copacity which the

Gustenalan Commiets had not shown.

The Cuban said:

"It in not a matter

of standing around with Arab fatalien waiting for events to take place

We should not efficiently so as to precipitate the death of impertoliam.

Recouse of this wo are ready to help anyone no my decide to struggle agenet

Imperiallen anywhere.

Cubin propaganda medie have sought through publicizing the

activitles of the 13 Hovenbor group to increase ite prestige and chances for

A Prence Latina reporter published an alleged interview wit

13 November leader Yon Soss-

Haiti: A cadre of Haltion Coumunists led by Rene Depestre 18

resident in Cuba, and many thousends of Hastian citizens llving in eastern

Cube are now being subjected to Commniet regimentation and indoctrination.

1. Honduras: Prior to the break in Cuben-Honduren diplonatic

relations in April 1961, Cuban personnel under the cover of consular and

aiplomatic offices engaged in proselyting in the north coast region of

Hondureç :

Honduras now is the target of a partloularly vicious regulaz radio

progran beamed especially to Hondurad by Radio Havana: Many Hondurans are

in Cuba under the "cholarshiy" progran.

Mexico:

Tho Cuban embassy in Mexico City, the consulate In

Merida, end the "Cuban-Voricon Cultural, Centor" in Merida have all &

engaged in propoganda activitien designed to encourage the pro-communiet cause

perticularly the Communist-influenced National Itberation Move

In close contact with MUl lenders to have concluded an agreement whereby

none of the money sent by Havana to eover the expense of the enbassy le ear-

Mexican offictals vere disturbed at the

participation of Cuban enbassy officiole in inciting the anti-US demon-

stratione by Neidcan students In July and August 1960, Monican euthorities

have periodically impounded quantities of Cuban propaganda being sent through

Mexico to other Latin American countries. The not importent aspect of

Mexico in Cuban propaganda and subversive operations in Latin Amerios 10 ita

use by the Cubans as a way station or Jumping off place between Cuba itself

and the reot of Latin Aneriod.

8

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 66

---

## Page 67

Niceragua: A codre of Nicarsguan Comantets is based in

Contect between them and pro-Castro Nicaraguane in Nicarague and in

exile in other countries of the Caribbean ores i9 mintained at least on o

aporadle basis. A mmber of Nicarnguans periodicolly have traveled to Cube

and some have received training there in guerrille tecties:

Feliable reporte

Indionte that some of these Cuba-trained Nicaraguans have been among the

smell guerrilla baade that have infiltrated Nicaragun across the largely a-

guarded Hondruen border.

The Nicaraguan government is the target of e

regularly broedcast Recto Havana program to Nicaragua which is ennonced ac

the progren of "froe Nicaraguans."

Panamas Cuben finencial assistence 1a believed to be

channeled to the pro-Comnist Hotional Action Vanguard (VAll) in Panema. One

of the VAN leoders, Deputy Thelma King, te a frequent traveler to Cuba end

claime to be a personal friend of Fidel Castro:

Paraguay:

Paraguayon exides in Uruguay and Brasil have

received Cuban financial seistence.

Four members of the United Frout for

National Liberation (FULNA), a Commist Pereguayon exile group in Unigay,

receive the equivalent of $230 monthly each from the Cuban embossy in

Urugusy to financo clandestine pro Castro activities in Uruguay, according

to a Paraguayan exile in Uruguey who is in close touch with FULNA.

"Peru: At lenst eight Feruvians traveled to Cuba by way of

Mexico lest June to receive training and Indoctrination in that country.

Other Peruvian Communists or pro-Commmiate have long been in Cuba and s

regularly broadcast Redio Havuna program la bened to Peru.

Uruguay: The Cuban embassy in Montevideo has been engaged

In pronoting pro-Castro propagauda. In January 1961 the Uruguayen govern-

ment was obliged to declere the Cuban ambassador persona non grada for

Intervening In internal Urugunyan affairs.

8. Venezuela: The Costro rogine has been extremely vitriolie

in 1to propaganda blasto egainst the Betoneourt administration in Venezuela.

Cuban assistence has been channeled to members of the militant opposition

Leftist Revolutionary Movenent (MIR), which le attenyting to develop a

merrilla movement in Venezuele with the aid of ite ally, the regular Vene-

zuelan Commniat party. While there in little evidence to Indicate direet

Cuban involvement in this Communiet effort, a significant number of the lend-

ing figures Involved, including Fabricto Ojede, are Inown to hive traveled

to Cuba, there they probably received finanelal and other assistance in

adaition to official encouragement and propagande support for their activittes*

9

ATHT

50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 67

---

## Page 68

FH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 68

---

## Page 69

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

Policies Toward Latin America

42.

Here Castro has more capability for independont

action than in any other fleld except the internal politica of Cuba.

Gantro is deeply committed to a policy of armed insurrection

throughout Latin America: Because of his own experience he has

a deep-seated belief that only through insurrection can revolution

be promoted in Latin America. Further, he apparently belleves that

a successful revolution in another Latin American country would give

great impetus to the revolutionary movement and would also consoli-

date his own regime in Cuba. In trying to foment insurrections, he

apparently does not balieve it crucial that he cannot now give direct

military asstetance to them, nor does he seem to consider it impor -

tant whether he has or has not Soviet support. For the Soviets,

however, such an inflexible approach smacke of the Chinese position

and causes great problems in dealing with other Latin American

Communists. Most important, however, it is probable that the

Soviete believe such a posture will damage Soviet prospecte for

penetration of Latin America and Inevitably bring about a confronta-

tion with the US.

SECRET

NH 50955

DocId: 32423736 Page 69

---

## Page 70

SECRET,

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63.

* FEBRUARY 1963

18. Cuban overseas military capabilities remain severely

Limited by lack of the requielte air or sea lift. The Cubans could

probably not undertake an overseas operation on a saale larger than

one battalion. For political as well as military reasons, the Castro

regime lo most unlikely to undertake military operations of thie nature.

It would prefer to concentrate on rendering clandestine aupport to

local insurgents.

SEGRET

HH 70955

DocId: 32423736

Page 70

---

## Page 71

SECRET,

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63. 4 FEBRUARY 1963

31. The decline of bie preetige has at leaat for the moment

reduced Castro'e capability for subverting popular groups and

moving them into action againet their own governments and

against US intereste., Local fidelistas have encountered greater difficulty

in mobilizing mass support for anti-government strikes and demonstrations

on other than local jesues.

-CRET,

HT 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 71

---

## Page 72

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

32. Nonetheless, Castro continues hie appeal for revolution in

Latin America on the Cuban model. Those Latin Americans who are

committed to violent revolution continue to look to Castro for help.

particularly from his training program in Cuba and hia large-scale

dissemination of printed and broadcast propaganda. Communist

agitators are concentrating their efforts increasingly in rural areas.

as they have done in Peru recently. In addition, there has been an

increase in sabotage and other violence perpetzated by extremists,

of the sort not requiring the participation of large popular groups, yet

designed to provoke drastic countermeasures by governments and to

increase popular anti-government sentiment. These widespread

activities have demonstrated that the ability of local Communicte to engage

In torrorist and subvereive activities and their willingness to accept Cuban

and Soviet support do not (pend upon Castro-s prestige or upon their

opinion of hia doctrines and policies.

SECRET

50955

DooId: 32423736

Page 72

---

## Page 73

SECRET

Cho Guevara'e nother, who lives in Argentina, told & clandertine

source in mid-December that during her recent vialt to Cuba her son

told her that Cuban leaders now feel they will have to rely more end

nore on thele ova efforte to pronote Commnist penetration in South

America, Guertllas vill be wed on a lorge scale attor they beve

received trainios in Cuba, Quevare sold, He explained to hie mother that

this ts necessary since loth he and Castro feel Khrushcher "iot, them

down" and has no further interest in eprending Comunion in South Amerloe.

Cuevars added that be and Castro believe they and the Chinese are

botter Commists than Khrishchey,

December,

STORET: )

Corment: This report le consistent with recent publie speecher by

Guevaro which have emphasiced the important role of Cuba with reapect

to the "anti-impentalist revolution" in latin America.

(SACRON)

SECRET.

ATHT

50955

DocId: 32423736

Page

73

---

## Page 74

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Translation of report dated 6 Dec 62 Prom Italian Embassy Havana to

Foreign Ministry in Rome. "As I noted in my 9 Novenber report is 1e

aifficult for Castro to remain calm. Therefore the revolutionary regime

v111 contioue with all neans at its disposition to Aisseminate subversive

propagaade in the whole continent, as denonstrated by the fact that all the

states of Latin Anerica (including Mexico) are taking etrong measures

ageinst the dissenination of this propaganda. But it 1s doubtru that

today Castro can do mich more and that/constitutes a real menace to the

security of other countries, if only because be lacks the necessary funds.

I tend to share the opinion of the Ambassador to Brail that the Cuban

Leaders are tryine to concentrate all their subversive efforts in one

country, and that they have selected Venezuela for various reasons, in-

cluding the old 111 feeling between Castro and Betincount. I note in

passing that, eccording to whet was told me by the aforeentioned

Ambassador, during the recent meeting of the OAS the Venesuelan representative

accused the Cubans of promoting the recent attempts in hie country but, when

asked to furnish proof, he wus unable to do so."

SECRET (NOFORIT) (CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION)

SECRETI

NO FOREIGN WOO

N 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 74

---

## Page 75

SECREL.

A miative of & leading Communint In Cube (who us

Stron meltable advanoe Intomation of' Important developents) expreased

the option on 30 Hovenber that there wtil be revolta da Coribbean

contrios unich viza mnoquerade he "nationna novolutiona"

do as to

hogate the accusetion of Cuban complicity,

In fect, hotever;

those

revolutiona vill be diracted fron Cuba through rovoluttonarico

Snom

varioue coatedes vho tre now boing tanined da Cuba:

A 48т17,

32 January, SI020T)

Coment: Tis points up what is probably the moot offective

moons of Cuban subverton in Latin Anorice - the training of hundreds.

ond perhaps thousande of latin Amorieane In Cuba,

SECRET

ATHT

70955

DocId: 32423736

Page

75

---

## Page 76

ISECREN

* OREIGN DISSEM

The rocent spate of vublie addresses by loading Cuban offtetala

on the subject of Insurrection in other latin Angrican countries reflects

à more ossrosive stenco then prior to the "niacile ertsts" and sustests

that a decision to step up Cuban support for subveraive groups in other

Latin Anerican countates my be under Atocuscion within the inner cirote

of Cuban leaders.

Che Guevaza and liducation Minteter Armando fart have been in the

toretront since iste loverber in publicly expreshing the view that the

only Fond to the

"utberation" of the latin Amertcon peoples to the road of

insurection. Mdel Castrote earlter public line had been to deny the

necessity for Cube to "export" ite revolutiony Cuboto"example" was

sufficlent. This Iine 10 Eiven only perfuctory attention in the recent

Guevara and lart speochet. The Itne emerging in these epeeches arpears

oven tronger than that copoused in the "Second Denderation of Hovena"

promulgated last F'ebrury which suggested that In cortain eircumstences

Commandst dominated costitions could coue to povor by pesceful means.

The

vhole tenor of the recent specches suggeate that Cubs intends to provido

every assiatence within ite meanó to Jatin Anoricon indurgents. The

attention given in the Cuban press to developmento ta Venemela in recent

vects strongly suggeste a nore than acadento interent in develomments thore.

Cenadian Anbassador Kidd, speculsting on the rotsky-lite dediestion

to permanent revolution" epperent In & 21 Hovenher eyeech by Armando Esct,

connented that Cuben loaders noy be ettempting to counter. "the huntil-

ation of the vithdrawal of the tuscion nissiles" by maling renewed efforts

to "zigat revolutionary free in neiehboring countries," (Comment on:

Canadion Imbsesy, Havano, 23 Novenber, COMPTOMNIAL) (SICREN/NO POREICT

DISSELL)

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 76

---

## Page 77

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C

SUPPLEMENT

THE CASTRO THREAT TO LATIN AMERICA

Despite diminished prestige, especially among government

leaders, Castro retains great influence over politically

unsophisticated Latin Americans.

He is also supported by

Western Hemisphere Communist

parties and the vast majority

of extreme leftists.

Castro's main appeal lies in his claim

to be

the leader of

a successful revolution against "Yankee

imperialism" and in the support he is ready to provide

subversive activities throughout Latin America.

The degree to which Cuba is involved in current

hemisphere unrest is not clear.

Antigovernment nationals and

Communists of various Latin American countries, however,

have made frequent visits to Cuba to receive pro-Castro

indoctrination and propaganda.

During 1962, 1,000 to 1,500

are believed to have received

intensive education and training

in sabotage and guerrilla warfare:

Significant representation

has

been noted from Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru,

Bolivia, Paraguay, and Nicaragua. There is no definite

-

proof that Cuba is now exporting arms to any dissident groups,

but propaganda materials, explosives, and financial support are

reliably reported to have been furnished:

Cuban leaders have also called wiih increasing frequency

for open

rebellion as the "only road" to liberation for the

Americas; they have been especially vociferous

since the first

of the year. Leading officials, such as Castro, Blas Roca,

Che Guevara, Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, and Juan Marinello are

among those

calling for revolutionary violence.

The

"Betancourt tyranny" in Venezuela has been designated a

primary target, but Peru and Chile apparently also have high

priority. • The use of the Prensa Latina organization and

the agent network already in existence makes

it virtually

sure that Havana will intensify its clandestine activities...

Latin American governments are generally now more alert to

Castro's threat.

Inadequate security forces

and widespread

poverty throughout the area, however, make it almost certain

that Cuban-supported insurgency will have an effect out of

proportion to the number of people involved.

(SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

8 Feb 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page

(1)

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 77

---

## Page 78

SECRET-NO FOREIGN: DISSEM

Cuban Developments

Following Fidel Castro's call for revolution in

Latin America in his 2 January speech, other Cuban

speakers are emphasizing the same theme.

Che Guevara

told

a group of Central American delegates in Havana

recently that they must prepare for simultaneous

in all Central American countries and pointed

to Venezuela and Chile as major targets for revolution.

Long-time Communist leader Blas Roca, on 23 January,

praised Venezuelan Communists for their recent

acts of sabotage and pledged continued Cuban

support for the struggle of the people against the

Betancourt "tyranny."

Venezuela has long been a

major Castro-Communist target, and Blas Roca's

remarks imply Cuban support

for the present upsurge

of Communist activity there.

28 Ján 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page

2

7TH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 78

---

## Page 79

(EXCEPT FROM UNCLASS TY DED

DEBARMENT OF SLAMS WILHE PAPER ON CUBA ISSUED

AUG. 1950)

3o Armed Incursions:

No sooner had the Revolutionary Government of Cube taken power

than it leunched s progran for exporting its revolution to other countries

In the Hemisphere, particularly in the Caribbean area. The memories of

the Invasions and attempted invasions of Penane, of Nicaragua, and of

the Dominican Republic; following clovely upon one nother in the spring

and summer of 1959 are still fresh, Support of Cuban officials for

military expeditions against the Governents of these countries, although

vehemently denied, hes been establlehed beyond reasonable doubt.

With

the tavasion of the Dominican Republio cane the realination among the

American Rectiblics that international tensions in the Caribbean area,

to which Cube had significantly contributed, had risen to the extent that

& Meeting of Consultation of Minieters of Foreign Alinirs of the Anericon

States was neceesary:

The Investigating Conittee appointed by the Council of the OAS,

acting provisionally as Orgen of Consultation under the Inter-Auerican

Treaty of Reciprocal Assistence, in the Panana case in June, 1959 con

cluded "that the Republic of Panana was the victim of an invasion,

orgenized abroad, that sailed from a Cuban port and was couposed almost

entlrely of foreigners"

The Comittee report stated that the Chairman

of the Committee was able to confim that 82 of 84 Imprisoned invaders

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 79

---

## Page 80

were Cubans: Further, the Government of Fanana, Drlor to the departure

of the invasion group fron Cuba Intormed the Cuban Governent of reporta

shout this imperding event, Invoking the 1928 Habana Convention on the

Duties and Righto of Stetes in the Event of Civil Strife. The Cuben

Foreign Minister In turn assured Panane that the Cuban Government would

take the necessary preventive measures:

In connection with several of the invasions or attempted invasions

of Nicaragua from Coote Rica ind Honduras in June, 1959, and the

individusle organtsing them, documentury and other types of evidence

which cane to light demonetrated Cuben officials support in the fom of

eins and financial contributions.

official Cuban complicity in the lavasion of the Dominican Repubile

In the some month was clear. The expedition wes organized, trained, and

equipped in Cuba with the undoubted assistance of Cuban officials, An

officer on active duty with the Cuben Rebel Arny was one of the expedi-

tion's leaders: The Cubon lavy escorted the three landing crast used

by the tuvading force on their voyage to the Doninican Republic.

Even during the Fifth Meeting of Convultation 1o Santiago, Chile,

a report was received of the invasion of Haiti on Auguet 13, 1959 by &

group of armed men coming from Cuba, The Initien Goverment after the

Sentiago meeting expressed its fears of further tuvasion attempte.

It

charged that the August 13 Investon from Cube was & violation of the

1928 Habana Convention on Duties and Rights of Statea in the Event of

Civil Strife, The nosistance of Cuban officiald, including the Cuba

(2)

ATT 50955

DocId: 32423736 Page 80

---

## Page 81

Arbassador to Halt? and his five militory attoches, in the attenpt to

overthrow the Holtien Government was denounced by that Government;

The

Cuben Goverment, though sinitting that the invasion me lounched in

Cuba and all but one of the participants were Cubans, conveniently dia

avored the acte of the Cuban citizens involved.

(3)

ATHT

50955

DonTd: 32423736

Page 81

---

## Page 82

HIST

50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 82

---

## Page 83

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63,

4 FEBRUARY 1963

33. There have been indications of disapproval of Castro-s

policies on the part of those Latin American Communist parties

which are committed to a more gradual and less violent approach to

revolution. Castro has shown himself willing to collaborate with any

group, Communiat or not, willing to rosort to violence and in so doing

to circumvent some of the regular Communist partiea. Some of the

latter resent such tactica and have appealed to the Soviets against

Castro. It seems likely that the question of relations with other

Ilstin Amastern Communist parties, as well as the question of tactics,

te likely to hamper Communist revolutionary efforts in Latin America

and cause straine in Soviet-Cuban relations.

ECRET

=.........

HIST

50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 83

---

## Page 84

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

29. ... Among much of the revolutionary left, discuenion han

tended to shift to the need for indigenous, nationaliet revolutions, and

away from internationaliem and alliance with Moscow -oriented

Communiste and fidellatas.

SECRET

H7H 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 84

---

## Page 85

SECRET

Ponamenian Communiat Porty (PDP) leader Ruperto Thonne* recent

trip to Cuba wao évidently an effort to persuado Coatro to support the

PDP rather then the nore sctiviat Panemanian yro-Comniet VAN group.

When he ritumed to Panan on 14 December, Thome reportedly said that

Jorge Tuner, who also vent to Havans, In September and has not returned,

and other VAT loaders are still compatening againat the FDP de Cube.

Eowever,

the Cubons cinin to have told VAJ lenders they must cooperate

with the FDP to get Chetro support.

The Castro goverment seamp consistently to favor the VAl vith

funds and international trips, The Cubens my dietrust the POpts poor

organtastion and belteve VAN chezgos thet the FDP 1e Infiltrated. However,

the VAN 1a a rother unsteble group and the Cubans ano probably trying to

keep on good torns with both. Thone soda he received no military training

but woa taught a few things like how to diamntle e inchine gun.

Thoms cormented that no particular group neered to be in comand

In Cubn, resulting in such doorder that it was a wonder the revolution

tiad survived. He believes the ORI la merely a mechartem.

Montoo would not issue Thonas a vios, so he retumed to Panana Via

Prague where he talked with Crich Cormnist offletals and may hove

pleaded. the FDP onse against VAN with then.

531,754, 20 DEO, SECREE)

SECRET

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 85

---

## Page 86

MELEGRAM INEERMATION

RMATION REPORT I TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

This

793

material

and.794.

National Detense

shy

of

United

States

within

meaning

manner to

an

unauthorned

person is prohibited

by law,

tho Espionaga Laws, Title

18. U.S.C Sors

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

134

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-0/34K

COUNTRY

VENEZUELA

EAST GERMANY

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/537:107

SUBJECT

VENEZUELAN ATTENDANCE AT THE

EAST GERMAN COMMUNIST PARTY CONGRESS

DATE DISTR.

12 FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

1/A3

JANUARY 1963

REFERENCES

IN 659201

0/03

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (1 8. 7 FEBRUARY 1963)

P/FL

2

CAMA

FIELD REPORT NO.

NVC 2652

I RAPI

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

PARA 1: " A MEMEER: (B) OF THE COMMUNIST. PARTY OF VENEZUELA,. FROM A FELLOW

MEMBER WHO WORKS IN THE NATIONAL PARTY OFFICES.

- PARA 23 A MEMBER (B) OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA, FROM POMPEYO

6FR

1, JESUS FARIA, MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL SECRETARLAT OF THE PARTIDO

COMUNISTA DE VENEZUELA (PCV, COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA) ,.

AND OLGA LUZARDO FINOL, SECRETARY OF WOMEN'S AFFAIRS OF THE PCY,

WERE TWO OF THE DELEGATES OF THE POV TO THE EAST GERMAN COMMUNIST

PARTY 'CONGRESS HELD DURING JAN '63. THEY RETURNED TO VENEZUELA WITH A

LENGTHY DOCUMENT WHICH CLEARLY DISCUSSES THE IDEOLOGICAL

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE COMMUNIST PARTIES OF CHINA AND THE USSR.

THIS DOCUMENT IS BEING CIRCULATED AMONG SOME MEMBERS OF THE PCY.

• 2. POMPEYO MARQUEZ, MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL SECRETARIAT OF THE POV,

ON 1 FEB SAID THAT THE VENEZUELAN AND CUBAN DELEGATIONS AT THE EAST

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO

FOREION DISSEM

SECDEF

NSA

NIC

AID

USEA

OC 1

ONE

GROUP 1

walton enm Guitamatt

downgrading and

declassifichion

STATE GINA

D'Ai

¡ARMY/ACS!!

NAVY

AIR

JCS

STATENDIR

TELEGRAM

DA

I N

16376

OCR

ORR

091

00

INFORMATION

RT

TELEGRAM

SIGNET

000

FORM IK

F-92

115 20)

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 86

---

## Page 87

CLASSIFICATIOG

SECRET

(Ron FUlled In)

MINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/537,107

IN

PACE

65920

2

GERMAN: COMMUNIST PARTY CONGRESS TOOK A NEUTRAL POSITION REGARDING THE

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CHINA AND THE USSR WHEREAS THE OTHER LATIN AMERICAN

COMMUNIST PARTY. REPRESENTATIVES STRONGLY SUPPORTED THE POSITION OF

THE USSR. REPRESENTATIVES OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNIST PARTIES AT THE

CONGRESS CAUTIONED THAT EXTREME CARE SHOULD. BE TAKEN BY THE PCV IN USING

GUERRILLA FORCES.

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, SCS, OSD

INFO

DCSOP, DURI:

DA IN

16376

SECRETS

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM**

SECRET

000

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 87

---

## Page 88

SECRET-NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

C

C

Cuban Anniversary Celebrations (See pictures following)

The Cuban Armed Forces parade in Havana yesterday

included infantry, naval, artillery, armor, and air

formations.

The

most significant display was that

of SA-2 missiles and possible cruise missiles.

Ground units included 15 companies of the 2d Western

Army, units of the National Militia,

and other

infantry units in a

"new parade

step" resembling the

goose step.

The artillery unit had antitank guns,

heavy

artillery,

multiple rocket launchers and

1A artillery.

Three battalions of medium tanks, heavy tanks and

assault guns, along with the surface-to-air and possible

cruise missiles made up the final unit of the parade.

tina unit of the parossible

The air formations included helicopters, propeller-

type training planes, and MIG-15's, 19's

and 21's.

Soviet participation in the parade has not been

established,

although Soviets and Czechs may have piloted some of

the aircraft.

Premier Castro's speech following the parade brought

no surprises aside fron its unusual brevity.

made an effort to indicate Cuban control of the air

defense system, including the SA-2's,

and, in a

probable reference to US reconnaissance flights, said

there could be an incident "at any time".

and here

Castro reiterated the five demands he first made

after the announcement that the Soviets would

withdraw offensive missiles from Cuba. He

included his usual anti-US statements

and slurs at

President Kennedy and made a low-keyed appeal for

Moto hin the menis Blon speccalled for

revolution in Latin America,

emphasis

on Venezuela, and cited Cuba's

"historic task ..

of serving as an example" for that revolution.,

In the USSR, Cuban and Soviet spokesmen lauded Cuban-

Russian friendship and unity, and the Soviet

spokesman, Suslov, pledged that his country would

"never leave Revolutionary Cuba alone in distress."

(CONFIDENTIAL)

SOURCE: VARIOUS

3 Jan

63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

SECRET -NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page 1

HH 50955 DOrTd: 32423736

Page 88

---

## Page 89

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

reportedly continues, the threat of retaliatory action from forces

rallying around deposed Air Force Chief Lemus

has apparently

diminished,

and the majority of the armed forces still supports

President

Yaigoras.

The President's intention with regard to

leftist ex-President Arevalo, who plans to return and seek

presidency in next December's elections, is an unsettling factor.

The armed forces universally oppose Arevalo.

Some factions want

to replace Ydigoras with

a civilian-military junta and call new

elections before Arevalo becomes eligible to run in March.

Should

Arevalo return, the military will probably move to prevent his

candidacy and

the coming months may be critical.

Honduran President Villeda Morales, although not a strong

leader, is expected to complete his term.

The ruling Liberal

Party will probably retain the Presidency in the October elections,

and maneuvering for the nomination has begun. Rodas Alvarado,

President of the Congress and one of the three leading contenders,

has used his position to build up strength, but the armed forces

regard him as the least desirable

and a developing anti-Rodas

coalition may prevent his nomination. Either of the three leading

candidates would probably follow the

present government's policies,

including its relatively soft Communist stand.

The Communists,

while not yet a direct threat, are

steadily increasing their

influence in the labor field

exploiting the country's

discouraging political, economic, and social conditions.

El salvador, faced with a serious Communist threat about

two years ago, continues to show political and economic progress,

but there are clouds

on the horizon.

President Rivera, who

assumed control last summer in a full return to constitutional

government, still has

widespread support and military backing.

The government is moving ahead with its reform program, but

there is

some resistance. to the proposed new income taxes.

Communist activities have been curbed, but the Communists

still

retain

a subversive capability particularly among labor and

student groups.

There is concern over the likely election of a

pro-Communist as rector of the university, a center of sub-

version and intrigue.

Costa

Rica continues to be one of the most democratic and

politically stable countries in Latin America but there are

reverberations of unrest stemming from the deteriorating economic

situation.

The

juling National Liberation Party, which was

returned to power in last year's election in a bitterly contested

but peaceful election, represents the

liberal left, although it

includes a

number of

moderates such

as President Orlich and some

members of his cabinet.

The Communist Party is small and illegal

bus wall organized and effectively led.. It recently instigated

disorders in the banana zone

and, while not an immediate threat,

has long-range potential

should

economic conditions worsen.

28 Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page (2)

HH 50955 DOrTd: 32423736

Page 89

---

## Page 90

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Panama is relatively quiet. Although Panama has failed to

receive any commitment for a long-sought renegotiation of the

Canal Zone treaty, continuing talks on areas of disagreement and

some concessions

have eased tensions and softened violent

anti-Us

propaganda.

Public emotion

may again be aroused, however, by the

recent petition, filed by a Communist lawyer, requesting

the Supreme

Court to declare the treaty unconstitutional. President Chiari

has also indicated he expects to press for increased compensation

during the forthcoming talks.

On the internal scene, President

Chiari has failed to provide a strong administration. Corruption

continues; the cabinet is divided by conflicting loyalties and

ambitions; badly needed reforms have not yet been adopted; and

the chronically depressed economy remains stagnant.

The stability which has marked the 30-year dominance of

Mexico's Party of Revolutionary Institutions (PRI) is gradually

beine eroded.

Extreme right and left factions of the PRI are

vying for domination.

In attempting to placate both, President

Lopez Mateos has adopted inconsistent and vacillating policies,

pleasing neither group. Forces outside the PRI also pose an

increasing threat -- particularly the recently formed Independent

Peasant Central (CCI) with which leftist ex-President Cardenas is

associated.

The CCI, organized to exploit unrest among the land,

less peasants, may also attempt to challenge the PRI politically.

To undercut the CCI, the government plans to complete the land

distribution program by the end of Lopez Mateos' term late next

Although this may alleviate discontent in the agrarian

sector, rising population and mounting unemployment will continue

to be major problems.

(SECRET )

28 Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page (3)

74 50955 DooTd: 32423736

Page 90

---

## Page 91

Construetton of the fishing port in the Bay of Havana, wavee

announcement as a Soviet undertaking caused so much concern last fall,

will be dizected by e team of Soviet techniciane and Cuban engineere

and vill stert in Jebruary - according to & Havana radio announcement.

The port te to be completed by the end of 1963 and is to cost 12 million

pas00, which vill be met by a loan tron the Soviet Undon, to be amortized

over 10 yoere, The port is expected to serve 130 vessels of the Soviet

flabing fleet and from at to 30 of the Cuben fleet, It will have

installatione such as freener plants for 10,000 tons of fish, factortes

for processing ses producte, nachinery for making no less thin 30 tons

of 100 a day, a fleeting dock to repair ships of up to 2,500 tons, and

vell-equipped, repair shops. The announcement emphasized that the port is

to be operated by and will be the "abeolute property of the Cuban state."

It bas aleo bein announced that Poland has now formulated plane for

butlding the shtpyard envienged in the port of Mariel, The installation

will bo mnaged by Cuban technicians who are presently receiving training

in Polich shipyards on the Baltie, Ship construction will reportedly

reach a level of 70,000 tons per year. (MBIS 58, 17 Jamary, and Dilly

Roport, 16 Jemary, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

HH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 91

---

## Page 92

INGUMING TELEGRAM

Deparimeri of Siate

48"

Action

BURI

NUEW

SIA

NSC

NR

LA

OSD

ARMY

NAVY:

AER

COM

MR

CONFIDENT IAL

PASSED

Control:

TRoc'd :

FROM: Kingston

GEN. CARROLL

GEN. QUINN

TO:

GEN. HALL

Secretary of State COL. GILLIB

7384

February 11, 1963

9:11 p.n.

NO:

EPARIPIRASE TOT TENUIRED

567, February 11, 6 p.m.

Ref by mog number in

citer

unclassifled reply prohlbitoda

frant

a poolation.

Permanent Secretary External Affairs Ministry told Embassy

today that GOJ concerned over reports it had received that

supplied ships as having potential adverse effect on Jamaican

fishing industry as well as presenting possible security

problem.

He asked whether US could provide more detailed

information on these ships which would operate from Soviet-

built "fishing base" in Cuba.

In view of reports. he planned to urge Cabinet to take early

action on deciding end publicizing limits of Jamaican terricorial

waters in order to avoid incidents with Soviets and Cubans.

He is considering recommending to Cabinet that Jamaica claim

claims three mile limit.

territorial waters of six-and-six miles. Jamaica now apparently

Although GOJ obviously counting on receipt US nilitary equipo.

ment, seems unlikely that this expression GOJ concern motivated

primarily by desire to speed up delivery. Embassy inclined

to view Jamaican approach as healchsome indication GOJ at

technical level beginning to appreciate ramifications of

Cuban problem.

ACTION:

INFO

STATE (ARMY ACSI)

DA. IN: 16465

DCSOP, OSA, JCS, USDEL LADB

DOHERTY

SMD: CI

CONF IDENTIAL

MAР-3

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS

PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

000

Fy 50955 Doctd: 30429736

Page 92

---

## Page 93

.NH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page

93

---

## Page 94

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C

SUPPLEMENT

THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA, PANAMA, AND MEXICO

Central America is relatively stable. Preparations are

under way for President Kennedy's scheduled meeting with

the Chiefs

of State of these countries at San Jose, Costa Rica, on 18 and 19

March.

Tensions

are rising,

however,

in those countries

having

elections scheduled this year; Mexico's political stability is

threatened; and

the Cuban subversive potential remains a problem

throughout the area.

During the forthcoming meeting, an attempt will be made to

center discussions on areas of common interest. Economic integra-

tion of the Central American region - one of the major objectives

of the Alliance for Progress Program -- will undoubtedly be em-

phasized.

Central America, which has been moving toward greater

political unity, has begun to take steps toward economic integra-

tion, and presently envisages the creation of a Common Market by

1965.

The Cuban

subversive

priority. All of the Central American countries regard this as

one of the major problems and are seeking ways to meet it.

the

On 3 February, Nicaraguans

are scheduled to cast ballots for

first time in

nearly 30 years for a Presidential

candidate

who

is not

a member of the Somoza family.

Rene Schick - the

sovernment's Liberal Party (PLN) candidate and hand-picked by the

Somozas -- is expected to win easily, however.

Effective oppo-

sition to Schick collapsed when the

major opposition party --

Traditionalist Conservative (PCT) -- boycotted the elections

because the

government refused to permit OAS supervision.

only opponent is

Diego

Manuel Chamorro Bolanos, a last-minute

candidate of the splinter Nicaraguan Conservative Party (PCN),

whose entry into the race seems

to have been engineered by the

government to provide

semblance of opposition.

Castro-

Communist elements, militant conservatives and others may attempt

to create disorders before or during the elections, but the

Nicaraguan National Guard is believed capable of controlling

any troubles short of a general uprising or well-coordinated

rebel invasion - neither of which seems likely.

Anti-Somoza Nicaraguans have alleged fraudulent registra-

tions and may attempt to challenge the

elections.

Although

Schick may not turn out to be a Somoza puppet, opposition

suspicions will be reinforced with the likely retention of

General Anastasio Somoza as Director of the National Guard.

Repercussions in Guatemala from the recent abortive Air

Force revolt have not been too serious. Although plotting

28 Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK).

SECRET-NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

Page (1)

HH 50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 94

---

## Page 95

418440

Soys on

no oned deposed An

Borde ownstators

enteronat

warned chees

We dont a disorus the Pegsident o utentign with regard ton

lottist or resident Abevalo uho plans to rotarm und

prosidancy annex tDecenber o etect tous on unsactiou dentor.

thé ate disorde Unavescany oppose Arevalo Dono actor arant

creations before cravato becomes: carbleeto run 1o ahol

Arovalo return tho military will probably move to prot

grin de dac yuan di

the coming months pay be critical

Touren Presidono Villada Morates,

weepers

as pected to coop are as.

Ma000 r0

Ity will brobably retain the testdonov iate de fobe elections

and manourening for the, nomination has bego todas titanado,

resident of the Congress and one of the three, Leading

Dantonders

mised bis position to build up strengtb, out the arnea

regard may the least desirable landla deve lonine anti

a Cope

CoMe for

day prevent his nominat ton. orthoreof the

to loading

caperooves would enrobably follon the present governuent

incuss relatively soft Communeststand

Gonnaisto

wile dol rebra diceot threat, aro scond tocreasina

in Sluence in the labor field and are cantos ting the

пс віниках

disconsine political, economie, epe social coralero:

438%

#salvador,

faced witha serious Commun

Severa see continues to shor pou tical

underare clouds on tund norizon

residente

Livetax

seen control last summer an a full raturm co. cor

gone ponto still bas widespread, sapport ander tuner

me covenient is noving ahead with les resorn mosperated

theteris-some resistance.to the proposed/newpoohetand.

retain a stoversive capability particutants anons

student groups.

ahar ena

here a congern owet the likely elocton or a

Pre-conman is rector of the univerpit a conter of sub-

Re2y6.on. on. add 2x2705

Dos da luda oputinuos to be one of the most denocratia ande

politically stablo countries, in batin merica but there, arel

surest scenaing frontche

e, detortoratina ceonomios

scrapion, the une nationa triperation acur machos

204 03 00 13 0 03

mower spalast vear selection pa misterto contested

represenes the theral dect. at thought

see and faceive lacede

1 entre dens typhist

a gave de

1720

but an ince Bulletin

(REVAISE KLING)

SECKET INO, FORSION DISS

Mr 50955 DocId: 32493736 Page 95

---

## Page 96

SECRET-NO FORSICH DISSEM

Penaua erroletavosy suvet

Anhough Panpma npes

sone gor dannon oa0ho

Capns zong txoarye coutinunn oolioron aroes on arssuraeriens apo

none nonecestong

havar ossas

TaLonsanoRsorseno&n

volontrangrus

noc arousee honayono

hynehe

DAUA NORE

ay yocs

10 41

tae bentene

becont pottyeend

Coust to doctavo

o t3a5iotds

Pico dona,

CNlaxt

bascatso naseaos

XO0G

од хот мосассоо, coneeppoeror

abeins the tor lnoo

2is xaat

peacern sesedoa

Chiar thao dattasoe

O AN

a cho

nl ond

004006

Cosguuy,e!

conolhDosNeno

anotctonar bsade doe dcd role

6004

agaaunes ag0

poon ad0ps0d. 00o

tho ehorionzly dapseusoo

pa uees

o caruer

pc tho 30-voar don manco 6%

Mesteo s ParcAe

DoTa TReyaa aadueti

be injoexoded

Bzuseng

260

хромова pane

vink toadoupnou oro

со расао ват

7Rces doar

Sopoz veroos nae saopsod tugos pisnd ana yoel taarean nol2oro

Phane tng naLMoNT 294y

COS

usocnono Punsorpose en

cao utaconMly vorsod tadepeseont

noesa peaeyge

Menieis Concror

(062

esocneziet

Tho eoy,

o ansoscedorttio

28F0-

oss paesunk05030

al Donrorcherer

to undesout yoe det,

MeOS KO

canose ona.0o ooneloso no dads

discrabuetot procton.ayeo

10raz 480001 000 180 103

УС-AN

AI ChoACE 4a POYNE

ONSUadO DER UTICODROOSENA P5RNAC

SOCtO о

rtbing pogu au os

Ворог сест, сувори мони все

to о налой оговора

(scCneg,

28-040

ABTNC RORMON DINCEM

aoaecs 00ao2

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 96

---

## Page 97

Campesino Strike Scheduled in Bolivia

A planned Campesino (peasant) strike in Bolivia today

could lead to violence if it. occurs.

The Government

reportedly plans to block all entrances into La Paz,

and campesinos loyal to the government are assembling

and arming to counter the strikers who are led by

pro-Communist Torribio Salas.

A government spokesman

claims

that the Cuban and Czechoslovak Embassies are

financing the strike and that the Cubans are training

campesino militia in other areas as well.

President

Pas has reportedly said

he will do every-

thing to prevent the strike but will call on loyal

campesinos for aid i1 he fails. If armed conflict

develope between

the

two groups of canpesinos,

the Armed Forces would probably be forced to step in.

President. Paz might also have to take action against

trouble makers like Salas, something he has tried to

avold.

(CONFIDENTIAL)

SOURCE: ARMA LA PAZ CX-11 (C)

28

Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK

SECRET NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

Page

HH 50955 DOrTd: 32423736

Page 97

---

## Page 98

SECRE

DISSEM

Three top

ballien Cormnict Party offieinlo, Including Inte

Carlos Prested, are reported leaving for Cube vie Prague prior to

15 January to decuen certain political problems with the Cubnn

Commundate responsible for pro-Cubon notivities in the AlfTorent Latin

American countries. Before leaving they planned to be triated by a

Braillen Communtat: Furty naber who has Just returned from e viait to

party leodery In Urgoy, Arention, Chile, Peru, and Bolivle to get thei

opintons about holding the "Tatin Avertaon Congress in Support of Cuba,"

now rescheduled for March, in Rio or Sao Paulo.

tv 42868, 31 Decenber, sucrur NOFORN)

SECREY

NO FOREIGN DISSE!?

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 98

---

## Page 99

SECRETN

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

The Ilational Ercutive Cornssion of Eroxil'a orthodox Cormmtet

Party (PCs) reportodty planned to neet on 7 January to aiscuso the

party position in relation to Irenaiaco j01100; Ereatlian Pessont-lengue

lender who has been closer to Braz1l's Alseident hard-Lino Commintat

Party thon to tte orthodon group (CPS), The FCB leoders plemod to

consider the possibility of sending e higin-level party delegation to

Cuba to confer vith Pidel Castro, not oniy to imrove relatione but

to protont e roport that Castrol la supporting Juliao,

DCS-3533404, 9 Jenuiry, SecrIE)

Cosmenti: Cuba hao for sono tine had a divieive intluence on

Brazilden Conmniet niisirs. The dlanident Corminiat: Praty forned In

late 1961 hao - Ilite Juliao - favored e nore revolutionary Iine nua has

ayparently received considorably nore support fron Cuba than has the

orthodox party. Another Indication of the livistve influense of Cubo.

1o the report that Erenclaco Iolvas Otero, FCB loader resyonsible

for

matters pertainins to Cuba, atteclred porty abservience to the CrSU at

a hational PCB conference on 29 Novenber, Leivea mointeined that the

PCB sbould @iacuss the Sino-Soviot atrute with comlete independence,

rather thon mintain oilence on it es lc had beon dotaga (BHCREI)

SECREA

•-TIAN DISSEM!

NH 50955

DocId: 32423736

Page 99

---

## Page 100

9FP0F7

TELEGRAM

aato

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CINTRAL INTELLICENCE AGENCY

contoirs information offecting

transmission

op ravelation® tho National Dofenso of tha United

SECRET

(When Fillee in)

. CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOLEISN UISSEM

of tha Espionaço Laus: Tilia 18, U.S.C' Soct

SECRET

STATB/INR

STATEDIR

DIA ARMY/ACSI MAVY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FORSISN DISSEN

JCS| SECDEF| NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE*I

OCR

GROUP |

Excluded from outomaris

aaunaeddine ood

declosuficahion

ORR

0B1

00

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORTI TELEGRAM

_.SEeRer

ORSOLITE ERSVIOUS EDITIONG.

0000

DoR ilK

+-03

NH 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 100

(15-20)

---

## Page 101

SECRET

SECRET

(When Fillea In)

CLASSIFICATION. DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DOSEN

ISECRET DA EN: 17084

CLASSIFICÄTION IL DISSEMÍNÁTION CONTROLS

NO FONEION DISSEM

SEGRET

NH 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 101

IN

67594

PAGE 2

0000

---

## Page 102

C

SECRET

(When Filled In)

SEGNET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEVINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DIESEM

IN

67594

PAGE 3

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SEGNET

0000

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 102

---

## Page 103

SACTION

ARA - 4

REP

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

AIRGRAM

CSM 9-6 BRAZ

FOR RH USE ONLY

FUR

cU

A-234

NO.

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Rovin

Lisa:

09:

HANDLING INDICATOR

10

TO

: DEPARTMENT OF STATE

F00

AID

INFO.

: RIO DE JANEIRO

STION

5/11

alis

AGA

COM

FRO

INT

TR

6

*MS

'AR

AIR

ARMY

FROM

: Amcongen, SAO PAULO

DATE: February 6, 1963

SUBJECT: Sample survey of worker sentiment shows receptivity

toward communism; São Paulo business leaders re

REF

ported by one observer as generally unconcerned over

Communist danger.

CIA

10

USIA

Г.

050

12

NSA

Iwo straws in the wind that have come recently to my atten

tion indicate the existence of an unhealthy attitude toward communism

on the part of at least some segments of São Paulo's working and

managerial classes.

Further indications in support of or in refutation

of these signs will be submitted as they are noted.

4300

EXES

E/RA

MEZA

FEA

0/20

4/S5

F/SL

GUMA

Fader

30MS

MAT

Wro

9/0

UPT

On January 31, Iwas visited by the two top American ex-

ecutives of a Brazilian subsidiary of a large American corporation. §

They said that their firm, following a practice instituted some years

ago of periodically sampling worker sentiment in their plants, had

just finished a small survey conducted very informally by trusted

Brazilian employees among 55 or 60 of their semi-skilled workers

to discover how the latter would feel about the establishment in Brazil

of a communist system of government. The result of this survey was

so shockingly different from that of earlier pulse-taking that these

executives thought the Consulate General should know about it. Eighty

percent of the workers approached had indicated that while they did not

pretend to know much about communism, they thought they would be

better off under a communist regime than they are at present. Among

the reasons most commonly given were that things were so bad in

Brazil that any change would be for the /es and that communism

would put an end to the rascality (malandragem) which is so prevalent.

The other twenty percent thought that communism would be bad for the.

country.

§ Names withheld at their request.

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FORMOS - 323

3 - 82

DMaraddock tmn

FOR DEPT. USE ONLY

XIs

Cour

2-0-63

Contents and Classilicarion Approved by:

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 103

---

## Page 104

Jao taulo

A:234

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

The company executives attributed the pro-communist

sentiment.as revealed, mainly to the economic difficulties ex-

perienced by low-income families as a result of the rampant.

intlation.

They said their labor relations were good, that while

their pay scales were not as high as those in some other industries,.

some popular fringe benefits were provided, and that to the best of

their knowledge there had been no communist agitators at work

among their employees.

Not long before this visit I was lunching one day at the

Jockey Club with Sr. Paulo Ayres Filho, a Brazilian banker and

pharmaceutical manufacturer who is the spark-plug of IPES

(Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas e Sociais), the principal demo-

cratic action group in the local business world. Looking around him

at the other tables, occupied by a good many well-known figures of

São Paulo's conservative upper classes, Sr. Ayres said to me,

is serjously concerned over the communist danger in Brazil."

No conclusions, obviously, should be drawn from such

slender indications.: It has been my observation, however, that

most Brazilians either believe that a communist take-over would

be impossible in Brazil, or believe that even if it occurred, it

would take a relatively mild form with which they could live.

The

Brazilian's boasted calm, which is genuine and in most circumstances

a virtue, could in the present state of affairs be the cause of his undoing:

Raus

Mancele

Daniel M. Braddock

Minister Consul General

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

IT 50955

DocId: 32423736 Page 104

---

## Page 105

IN P

RT

IF

ORMATION

REP

Ô) RT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This materiei contains information aflecting the National Detense of the United Btates within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title

18, U.3.0. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of Welch in any manner to on unauthorized person is probibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Colombia/Cuba

Cuban Support of Guerrillas

in Colombia

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS:-3/536,069

4 February 1963

1

RD

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE 8:

DATE ACQ.

October 1962

(14 December 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

from "a fairly reliable source

with contacts in Buenos Aires." Appraisal of Content: 6.

1. Maximo Gruber, a major in the Cuban Army and one of the

leaders of the G-2 section, has been appointed technical leader

of the Communist guerrillas in Sumapaz, Colombia. 1 Gruber,

a Polish Jew, was formerly a commissar

in Spain.

His wife

is European.

His son Maximo is a graduate of the Lenin

Institute in Moscow. On his frequent trips to Bolivia,

Uruguay, and Cuba he carries a Bolivian diplomatic pass-

port identifying him as "traveling inspector of the

Bolivian Foreign Ministry."

2. Gruber is being assisted in his tasks in Colombia by

Jaime Guerra, also known as Captain Veneno.

One of his

liaison officers to the Communist Party of Colombia is

Blanca Diaz y Collazo, a lawyer and former member of the

Cuban Embassy in Bogota, who was trained in Prague in 1952.

1. Headquarters Comment.

reported in April 1961 that Maximo Grobart, nationality

unknown, was training guerrillas in the Sumapaz area;

Grobart, who claimed to be of Hungarian origin, had a

Cuban passport in the name of. Jose Blanco and might

nave had other passports of different nationalities.

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 105

---

## Page 106

WNIF

ORMATION

RE

IR

OR MATION

REP

RT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794,

contains information afecting the National Defense of the

the transmission

or revelation

United States within the meanins es sue Espionize lawa, Tide

any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by

SaY-C-R-E-T

COUNTRY Costa Rica/Cuba

SUBJECT

Departure of Costa Rican Communist to

Live in Cuba

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS -3/534,724

22

January 1963

RD

DATE OF November 1962

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. (23 NOVember 62)

FIELD REPORT NO. HRS-3006

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

Costa Rican (B) with good contacts

in Costa Rican Communist Party

circles. Appraisal of Content:

Carlos Guillen Fernandez, Costa Rican Communist no was formerly very

active in the Sociedad de Amigos de la Revolucion Cubana (Society of

Friends of the Cuban Revolution), left Costa Rica on Il November, on his

way to Cuba, where he planned to remain indefinitely and to work.

IT 50955

DooId: 32423736 Page 106

---

## Page 107

R MATION

RMATION

R

EPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information aflecting the National Defense of the United States withln the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18, U.S.O, Secs. 783 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unnuthorized person ta prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Ecuador/Cuba/Latin America

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Request by Cuban Diplomat in

Chile to Member of the

Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean

Youth for Information on Leftist

Activity in Ecuador

DATE DISTR.

C5-3/535,791

1 February 1963

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

RD -W- 2107

DATE OF

INFO.

Mid-January 1963

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. Ecuador,

Guayaquil (22 January 1963) FIELD REPORT NO. HEG-2108

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: 1

Member (C) of the Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean Youth.

Appraisal of Content: 3.

Alfredo Vera Arrata, a member of the National Executive Council

of the Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean Youth (URJE) until his

expulsion from URJE during its National Convention held in early

January 1963, has received a letter from Pedro Martinez Pirez,

First Secretary of

in Santiago,

Chile, in

which he

current leftist activity in Ecuador.

Vera plans to send

Jaime Galarza Zavala, also expelled from URJE, if funds can be

raised for the trip

Field Comment.

Rative coon a car, Poza and durao of Cuban subversive

ATHT

50955 DooId: 32423736 Page 107

---

## Page 108

TELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This

material

contains information

affecting

793 and

794,

the transmission

or

revelation

the

National Defense of the United States within

the

meaning

of

which in any

of the Espionago Lams, Tillo 18, U.S.C Secs.*

manner

to an unauthorized

Derson is prohibited

by low.

COUNTRY

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CUBA/HAITI

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED DISSE

Mr. Rowen has

speN

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/653,274

SUBJECT

PLANNED MILITARY COUP TO OVERTHROW.

PRESIDENT DUVALIER OF HAITI

• DATE DISTR.

14 FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DATE OF

INFO.

8 FEBRUARY 1963

REFERENCES

IN 67457

DATE ACO. UNITED STATES (28 JANUARY, 8 FEBRUARY 1963)

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

. AN OFFICER (B) OF NEWS DISTRIBUTING MEDIA; FROM A COLLEAGUE OF EUSEBIO MUJAL BARNIOL

:1.: PAUL E. MAGLOIRE, FORMER HAITIAN PRESIDENT, IS PLANNING

TO OVERTHROW PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER OF HAITI IN A MILITARY

COUP. : MAGLOIRE CLAIMS. TO HAVE THE BACKING OF THE HAITIAN ARMY.

THE DATE OF THE COUP IS EXPECTED TO BE SET AT A SECRET MEETING

WILL BE HELD IN NEW YORK ON ZD FEBRUARY.

2. MAGLOIRE EXPECTS TO RECEIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND MANPOWERE

FROM CERTAIN CUBANS IN EXILE. ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ Y ECHAZABAL,

ASD

DASD

EXEC

D/RA

EUR

NESA

WHENT

FE

SSA

FMRA

FEA

D/AC

DIS

D/PL

MANCH

P/PL

ODMA

MAPL

MGT

WPS

CA.

FORMER. CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO HAITI, IS LINING UP CUBAN EXILE SUPPORAR

RODRIGUEZ HOPES THAT IF THE CUBANS PLAY A PROMINENT ROLE, THEY

SECRET

STATE/INR

DIA ARMY/ACSI, NAVY.

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM

DA IN: 17056

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED

AIR

JCS

SECDEF

NSA

DISSEM

NIC

AID

USiA

oct

TREASURY

ONE

FBI

INFORMATION REPORT

GROUP|

Excluded from outomers

downarndins and

declassficoron

OCR

ORR

081

00

EXO

I&NS

REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM

000

ORM

1K. .

OBSOLATE

PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

HH 50955 DOrTO: 32423736

Page 108

(15-20) E

---

## Page 109

SECRET

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CEASSTPICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCSDB-3/653,274

IN

67457

PAGE

2

MIGHT BE GIVEN A BASE FROM WHICH TO OPERATE ACTIVELY AGAINST CASTRO

IN THE FUTURE. (SOURCE COMMENT: RODRIGUEZ HAD BEEN A DELEGATE OF THE

26 JULY MOVEMENT IN PUERTO PRINCIPE UNTIL JANUARY 1959 WHEN HE WAS

NAMED AMBASSADOR TO HAITI BY FIDEL CASTRO RUZ:

IN LATE 1959

RODRIGUEZ MANAGED TO. ESCAPE ASSASSINATION) .

3:: EUSEBIO MUJAL BARNIOL OF THE CONFEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES DE..

CUBA EN EXILIO (CTCE-CONFEDERATION OF CUBAN WORKERS IN EXILE)

IS ASSISTING RODRIGUEZ, A RELATIVE.

4.

FIELD DISSEM:STATE, ¿INCLANT, CINCARIB.

ACTION:

ACSI,

INFO

DCSOP

DA IN 17056

NAVY, AF, JGS, OSD

SÉCRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATIÓN CONTROLS

SECREGONTROLLED DISSEM

000

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 109

---

## Page 110

SSUA

ANUSAn

---

## Page 111

DOGENASEHE CORLENDER

---

## Page 112

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

1122

R MA

CENTRAL INTO

te or inform dio evolentin the

Station on

in any

Datonio of tha

SAr Agater

monnor lo as unaulliórs

within iliat

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECREI/NO FOREICN DISSEM

CUBA - IN : 9477 113 Feb

63) R/DISORINO.

CUBAN PROPOSAL. TO THE PARDIDO DEE

ASSIST

ESPIONACE NEE IN

IN ESPASIEST

PURBLO

DATE DISTE.

OF CUBAN

T09S 3/537,022

12.72

•1903

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

O47E 0F

17 DECREER 1962

INFC.

REFERENCES.

PLACEs

IN

26943

DATEÁOÇ-

(21 DEC 62)

APPRAISAL

2

• THIC PHOMAS IS ACCURARELY QUOTED

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOU

FIELD REPORT NO.

RECIONAL OFFICER

GRADINGS ARE

iNITiVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTONT IS TENTATIVE.

FRIEND.

(B) OF THE PARIEDO DEL PULLO, FROM THOMAS NHO IS A PRESONIE.

S228

OTION:

IN -9

NFO:

IA-30

14-0110-2

* (47

ATE/ING

20 ON 17 DECRIBER 1952: RUPENDO LUTREZ TONAS, NATIONAL SHOREDARY OF PROPAG:

OF THE PARTILO DEL PUBBLO (EDP - PEOPLE'S PARTY • CONCESA, BACO SHAE

A-THE BE VAS IN 0032 BE HAD CONQTIED THE PDP TO ACCEPO A PROPOSAL

NADE

BY THE CUBINS, WHO PROPOSE TO ESTABLISH AN ESPIONACE NEC IN

PARCETED AGAINST UNITED STATES MILITARY INSPALLAXIONS IN THE CANAL ZONE,

TO BE FUNDED THROUCH THE PDP. THOMAS SAID INE CUBANS ARE EXTREMELY INDEALSDED

IN THE MOVEMENTS OF MILITARY SHIPS. THROUEN THE PANAMA CANAL, AND THAT INEX

TOLD HOL THAT THE NET WOULD REQUIRE TWO MEN, ONE A RADIO DECEROCIAN, MIO

COZER A CODE EXPERT.

THOMAS WISHED TO KNOW WETHER & RADIO PRANSNOS2220 CO0ES

SE BOUGHT

IN

THOMAS SAID THAT HE HAD REPORTED THE CUBAN PROPOSAL TO THE NATIONAL ICECUTEVE

CLASSIRICATION - DUSEMINATICA CONTROLS

SECRDI/NO FOREICN DISSEM

DA LARRSHRCSE MAVE

1821022

ONE

RED

SES2

INFORMATIC

N: 16496

0000

HH 50955 DOCTO: 32423736

Page 112

---

## Page 113

CLAGSIRICATION A DIS

SECRET/NO FORTIGN DISSIG

TOCS 3/837,022

wow. 21

COMMODORE (CENT) OF THE 309 ON 16 DECLIGER SOD THAD ID HAS X02 20ID- THE. CON

THAT HE HAD JOIIS-. -S POP TO ACCOPT THE PROPOSAL. POLS WAS WORREES

ABOUT ISE MATTER BECAUSS AT TAR 16 DECIER MUSTINO MOGUEL PORCEUE,

NATIONE SECRETARY OI ORCANIZATION ON THE PIE, HAD OPPOSED THE IDEA. ID

DID NOT BELIEVE THAT THE PD? SHOULD ENGAGE IN SUCH ACTIVITY LAD SAID TRAT

IF THE CUBANS WANTED THIS KIND OF INFORMATION THEY SHOULD CEC I2 PISZEVaS..

- RUBEY SOUZA, NATIONAI, SEGRETARY CANERAL OF THE POE, DISACRONS VING MOROCCO:

SAYING THAT SO IONG AS IIE POE COULD USE THE INFORILACION DEVELOPED EZ SUCH

AN OPPRATION ME BELIEVED THE CUBAN PROPOSI BROULD BE ACCEPTED. THE SUBJECT

•WAS TO BE DESCUSSED FULLY AT THE CAN MARTING SOREDULED TO BE NEED

18 DECEMBIR 1252S (FIBID COMBINI: THOMAS VIVE IO CUBÀ M, SPIRES O

RETURNED

VIA ZURICE, 14 PEORET.

ADOS 3/591,754 GIVES SUS

DECATES OF THOMAS: HUROPEAN IRAVER.)

30 FIRED DISSIM:

SEASE, ARE, MAVY, MIR, CINCLAO, CINCARIS.

END. OF MESSACE

ACTION:

-ACS!

INFO

DOSOP

DA: IN: 16496

NAVY, AF, UCS, OSD

SOREL/NO FORDION DISSEM

2P922?

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 113

---

## Page 114

TELEGRAM

SECRET

INFORMATION REPORT

TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ASD This!

material

contains information

affecting

National Defonso

DASD793 'and 794,

the transmission or revelation

of which in any manner

°% an united sted

tho United States withir

EXEC

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

D/RA

EUR

SECRET

(When Filled 1n)

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

NESA

'COUNTRY

SSIC

-SUBJECT

FEA

2.

DECISION OF GUARDIA CIVIL JUDGE TO RELEASE

COMMUNISTS

COMMUNIST LEGAL ADVISER IN GUARDIA

CIVIL

the Espronage Laws, Titlo 18, U.S.C

Secs

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/537,185

DATE DISTR. 14. FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DIS

DATE OF

#NO:

(PLACE

IRATE ACC

TARPRAISAL

CGMP

SOURCE

C/L

OPR

REFERENCES

IN

67560

12 FEBRUARY 1963

(12 FEBRUARY 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. HPL 2756

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

COMPETENT AMERICAN OBSERVER (B.

i1" MAJOR GUILLERMO HINOSTROZA, WHO WAS NAMED AS THE GUARDIA CIVIL

JUDGE TO TAKE THE STATEMENTS OF THE COMMUNISTS ACCUSED OF

PLOTTING SUBVERSION, DECIDED ON 12 FEBRUARY 63 THAT HE COULD NOT ASSUME

RESPONSIBILITY FOR BRINGING THE COMMUNISTS TO TRIAL: HE INTENDS TO

RELEASE THEM ON 15I FEBRUARY IN THE ABSENCE OF A DECISION BY THE

GOVERNING JUNTA (FIELD COMMENT: THE PRESS REPORTED HINOSTROZAS

APPOINTMENT AS AD HOC JUDGE OR MAGISTRATE FOR THE SECOND POLICE

JUDICIAL ZONE IN THE ARRAIGNMENT PROCESS, IT ALSO REPORTED THAT

COLONEL ENRIQUE DIEZ CANSECO WAS THE GUARDIA CIVIL LEGAL ADVISOR

IN THE CASE.: ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE. WITH GOOD

SECRET

HA IN 17081

DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY

STATE/INR

STATE/DIR

AIR

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN

ISSEA

uCs

SECDEF

NSA

NIC

AIC

USIA OC!

CROUP 1

crudad irom cutomatis

downeracing ond

declassificalion

ONE

• ocR

ORR

OBI

00

TELEGRA

INFORMATION REPORTI TELEGRAM

SECRET

0000

HORC

0-82

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

7TH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 114

(15-20)

---

## Page 115

SEGNET

SECRET

(When Silled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN

TDCS - 3/537,105

PASE

CONTACTS AMONG COMMUNIST PARTY LEADERS, THE PARTY IS PLEASED

THAT DIEZ CANSECO IN THE CASE BECAUSE HE WAS A COMMUNIST SYMPATHIZER

WHO CONTRIBUTED TO THE PARTY IN THE NINETEEN FORTIES.

PARTY

RECORDS FURNISHED BY. THE POLICE IN 1958 SHOW ACTUALLY THAT HE WAS

A PARTY MEMBER).

2. NAVY CAPTALN ENRIQUE CARBONNEL, CHIEF OF THE SERVIÇIO DE

INTELLIGENCIA NACIONAL,. PLANNED. TO DISCUSS THE SITUATION WITH

THE PRESIDENT OF THE JUNTA

AND URGE HIM TO PREVENT THE RELEASE

OF THE COMMUNISTSE: JAVIER CAMPOS MONTOYA, CHIEF. OF THE STATE

SECURITY DIVISION OF: THE POLICIA DE INVESTIGACIONES DEL PERU, INSISTS

THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS AMPLE EVIDENCE, INCLUDING SOME CONFESSIONS,

ON WHICH: TO CONVICT THE COMMUNISTS. CAMPOS EXPRESSED DISAPPOINTMENT

AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE JUDGE, WHOM HE DESCRIBES AS WEAK,

BUT HE HAS SOME HOPE THAT THE JUNTA WILL OVERRIDE THE DECISION.

3. FIELD DISSEMESTATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCARIB.

6756₽

2

ACTION:. ACI, NAVY, AF, JOS, OSD

INFO : DCSOP

DA IN :17081

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

0000

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 115

---

## Page 116

SECRETI

Tano Catna ustionale hove bern identisted, enematog to a utelly

reltable shi corpoteat bourco,

enig the leadeza of the 17 Decenber

stalle violance de tha li amod Carro de Fasco nine la la Oroys, dem

One oti tho throo Cubana hos atso boen netive fa pronting the setauro

de zanch

the Ferurton highlando dy Autoon Indlans

Castemsat-lou

cota to here plomod to cynchronize a cojor new solaure

campatge with

ho vistendo ansiast Costo de Pisco.

to buch ineddlente

hare beon mportel yet. (3017S)

SECREN

ITHT

60955

DocId: 32423736

Page 116

---

## Page 117

SECRET - NO

G

N DISSEM

Peruvian Communist Elements Coordinating Their Activities

Orthodox Communists in Paru are

apparently putting

aside their differences and

moving toward closor

co-operation with the extremist Irotskyist faction, '

believed to be leading the recent outbreak of

disorders.

The groups are reportedly coordinating

previously random plans to carry out extensive

destruction of industrial and agricultural

installations and to provoke uprisings.

Cubans and

other Latin American nationals as well as Havana

and Moscow-trained

Peruvians are said to be

instrumental in this latest development.

Members of the Peruvian junta have expressed

serious concern

over the internal situation

and hinted that they favor

strong action. Although

constitutional guarantees have been: suspended in a

fourth department. and several Army units have been

moved into the areas of disorders, the junta has

taken no further action. It has requested riot

control equipment from the US and says it is

ready to embark on an anti-Communist program upon

on an an e

assurance that the eguipment is forthcoming.

(SECRET)

SOURCE: EMB LIMA 612 and 613 (S); AIRA LIMA C-1 (C)

Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page

8

HT 50955

DonTd: 32423736

Page 117

---

## Page 118

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C

Peruvian Junta Makes Firm Anti-Communist Move

Continued Communist-incited disorders and an alleged

Havana-Moscow plan to take over the government

prompted the military junta to suspend constitutional

guarantees in Peru and institute

nationwide state

of siege early on 5 January.

Military commanders

assumed political control in their respective zones,

and a reported 800 Communist Party leaders and pro-

Communist subversives have been arrested.

The

Lima headquarters of several Communist and

Communist-front organizations, as

well as

their

publications, have been closed.

According to the communist plan, subversive activity

was to have been intensified between 15 and 20

January in all parts of Peru, with assaults on

banking and commercial institutions, military

garrisons, vital communications facilities, and

universities. A clandestine radio station

operating

on the Bolivian border allegedly was to direct

and co-ordinate this activity.

The junte has regarded members of the leftist but

non-Communist American Popular

Revolutionary

Alliance (APRA) a greater danger than the

Communists and originally tended to blame

them

for the disorders.

There

is no proof that APRA

has been involved

in anything but legitimate

strike activity.

Suspension of constitutional

guarantees would enable the junta to strike at

APRA to discredit and weaken

it before the scheduled

elections next June. (SECRET)

SOURCE: EMB LIMA 622 (S), 623 (LOU) and 624 (U)

Jan

63

DIA

• Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page 11

HH 50955 DOrTO: 32423736

Page 118

---

## Page 119

SECRET -NO

REIGN DISSEM

SUPPLEMENT

THE VENEZUELAN SITUATION

A number of high-ranking Cuban leaders since the first of

the year have publicly called for revolution, in other Latin

American countries, with Venezuela singled out as a country

with top priority.

Coinciding with these appeals have been reports that the

Venezuelan Communist Party

(PCV) planned to step up

terrorist

activity to discredit President Betancourt before his US

visit.

The recent incidence of terrorism, which has included

attacks on the US Chamber of Commerce office building and

the

burning of Sears, Roebuck warehouses, is apparently part

of this campaign.

Involved

in the current terrorism is the Armed Forces of

National Liberation (FALN).

The FALN, although purporting to

represent all of the opposition, includes some prominent

Communists and is emerging as a

paramilitary force of the PCV

with its main strength in the Caracas area.

Guerrilla bands also operate in western Venezuela, but

there is

no firm evidence that

their activity is coordinated

with that in the Caracas area.

Venezuelan army units, with

air support, have been used in a recent campaign against

these

guerrillas.

The armed forces are generally capable of maintaining

internal security and of defending the nation's borders

against neighboring countries.

The vast majority supports

constitutionality and is loyal to the Betancourt government.

The armed forces would not hesitate, however, to take over the

government in order to maintain order or to forestall a

Communist uprising. The armed forces were earlier greatly

frustrated over the government's inaction against Communist-

brothe sove ament to

instigated disorders.

Betancourt's recent willingness to

take more vigorous action, however, coupled with

the strong

support given the US during the Cuban crisis, has overcome

much of this dissatisfaction, and armed forces' support of

the government is greater now than it was six months ago.

The officer corps is generally free of Communist

penetration, although there has been some infiltration in the

Marine corps, two or three battalions

having been involved

in leftist-led revolts during the spring of 1962.

(SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

13 Feb 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page (1)

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736

Page 119

---

## Page 120

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Extremist And Police Activities In Venezuela

Venezuela

has

been afflicted over the past several

, months with a

rash of Castro-Communist

terrorist actions.

Many incidents, involving shootings and robberies, are

connected with

the Movement of the Revolutionary Left,'

the Venezuelan Communist Party, and the Armed Forces

of National Liberation - the Castro-Communist group

credited with the destruction at the Maracaibo oil

fields during the Cuban crisis.

These activities are

probably designed to discredit

and weaken the Betan-

court Government.

The police have

demonstrated considerable proficiency

in preventing major outbreaks and in acting rapidly

to arrest terrorists.

They have rounded up extremists

responsible for the holdup and looting of a printing

supply warehouse

and the burning of the Dupont paint

warehouse and have captured the Communist leader of

guerrilla bands operating in the Falcon area of

northwestern Venezuela. (CONFIDENTIAL)

SOURCE: VARIOUS

SECKET NO TOKEIGN DISSEM

HH 50955 DOrTO: 32423736

Page 120

---

## Page 121

SECRET - NO FO

REIGN DISSEM

Venezuelan Communists Plan to Increase Violence

As part of its terrorist campaign, the Venezuelan

Communist Party reportedly plans to mark the fourth

anniversary of Betancourt's presidency on 13 February

by guerrilla bombings in the Caracas area.

Other

Communists are to see to it that the capital is

flooded with propaganda that day. According to un-

confirmed

reports, Venezuelan authorities have

harred the Castro covernment with ordering the recent

terrorism in both Venezuela and Colombia under an

extensive plan to create collective panic and

insecurity

in both countries.

Colombian military authorities

have reportedly drawn up a plan to prevent terrorism

in Colombia's cities.

(SECRET)

SOURCE: TDCS 3/537,117 (S) ; FBIS (U)

C

148M43

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 121

---

## Page 122

IX. B. 2

SECRAZ

~ STSITIVE

Leftes/Mandelstz/DRAFT/I4 Mar 63/Irc

SUBJECT: Alternative US Public Posture on Subversion in Latin America

1. Although our public posture on subversion in Latin Anerica may

be too flimly estoblished for instant and radical revision, the following

analysis is offered on the assumption that some change 1n emphasis 1s

both possible anû desirable, no or at some time in the future.

2. Given the existence of a Cormunist state, of either mnjor per-

suasion, what 1s the likellhood that It will engage in subversion toward

neighboring states?

a. Total. All experience of the past forty years demonstrates

"that a Communist state emenates subversion as the sun emanates heat.

b. But lot us be clear that two kinds of subversion are involved:

(1) Hardware-centered - that is, findo, guns, tools of

sabotage.

(2) Egalitarian and libertarian Idealo.

3. How much does this fact of Inevitable subversion raise the prob

ability of Conmunion spreading to target countries?

Subversion 1s never a sufficient condition- and frequently

not a necessary one:

b. If subversion is really dangerous to z target state, there

13 per se something seriously trong In that state.

(France"y "Nasser

F'allacy" of 1956; Trance embertud on tie Suez adventure on the assumption

that 1i Nasser were disposed of, the trouble in Algerla would magleally

disapped:".

Although the game was not played out, few would alspute the

conclusion that France's assumption was wrong; or, for that matter,

7TH 50955 DOCTA: 32423736

Page 122

---

## Page 123

SECRET - SENSITVIE

that france would have been in an even deoper noress if her military

forces hed managed with the British to occupy Cairo.)

How feasible is it to control subversion at the source without

destroying the Communist State?

Usually it 1s infeasible to do so or the costs are prohibitive.

For instance, the costs of a protracted tight quarantine which

could prevent the export both of herdwre oriented and idea subversion,

would be very high, even if the activity vere accepted uy Cube and the

Soviet Union.

This would meen inspecting every vessel, searching every

traveler, forcing planes down for inspection, etc. We submit (a) that

Ideas would still be exported and (b) that by so doing we vould magnify

the Importance of Cuba beyond inagination. It would become a kind of

forbidden fruit. The analogy with prohibition in this country comes to

- miriã.

Ihis cource involves an increment of prestige and lure to Cuba

which would be likely to outweigh the doubtless desirable diminution in

the export of trained subversives and associated hardrare. Furthermore,

given the success of such an effort, the obvious Soviet counter would be

to une other channels which we could not survell without major Faet-

West

confrontation. The Cuban subvereior export organization night well

move to Moscow, Prague and or even Pelving.

therefore, to takes public

stance opposed to Cuban subversion ilthout having resolved on invasion

1s to be cormitted to a policy bound to demonstrate US Impotence.

5. If we wunt to control mubvursion at the source by destroving

the Comunist State, Cuba, how useful 1e 1t for us publicly to emphasize

hardro-centered subversion ne the renson?

2

Der SECRET - SINSITIVE

HH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 123

---

## Page 124

SECRET - SBIESTIVE

For many people outside of the US, even the export of

subversion by forcê and sabotage also involves ideas and dedication,

0.5

woll as funds, erns, and other coulanent. (lie, for example, are

not ashamed of the Bay of Pigs expedition except that it failed.)

b. Usually attitudes toward violent subversion depend on

attitudes toward thetarget. (Example:

acts against Jiminez, Ir2J1110

ald not otfend US/ most of Latin Arerica/ nost of the world; the paral-

lel todry: Somoza, Yalgoras, Stroesser): We run the danger of felling

into the USSR projection of the US as the "world gendarme." Subversion

directed agalast the Dutch goverment would outrage not only all Americans,

but also all non-Communist Europoans; its

legitinacy 1s total,. Dut the

same cin not be said for nost it governments,

The difference 1s decisive

and perhaps sometimes neglected.

C.i

Most people generally recognize that when violent subversion

1a poweriul, it 18 becaure it tops fundmental sources of discontent.

do We in the US teno to 100k at subversion in Latin America

from the point-of-view of hardwire. Lut a great deal of the

subversion

In Intin America is or at least appenrs un idea-centered, not hardware-

centered. The export of "amed aggression" by dedicated revolutionaries

1o only i part of the process. Another part, which is at lenst as impr

tant, and probably more so, is the export of propagande.

This, bowever,

to much of the world, including latin Anerica outside öf the oligarchies,

will appear as an export of idens and idends (perhaps wrong, but never-

theless Ideas). Our approach, then, tonds to yass rather than meet the

3

DOF SECRET - SENSITIVI

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 124

---

## Page 125

SACHET - SANSLILVE

Latino vierpoints. We are very close to putting ourselves into the

position of the Tsarist gendarmes who tried to use brute force against

the power of lders. the trep le that we way seem thereby to be aclot

ledging the decline and imminent fall of our own ideas.

One consequence of this line of reasoning would be that,

11 we ever find it necessary to invade Cuba, we should do so "to stop

the firing squado," "to guarantee tree elections," -- but not to save

Somora:

6. How feasible is it for us to control both kinde of subversion

at the target rather then at the source?

a.. It i1s often feasible. This is how we have in fact success-

fully controlled subversion except in the dubious case of S. Vietnam.

Even in the difficult case of Greece, we succeeded by a combination of

military and economic measures.

1. The point is not that this 1s alvays a feasible way of hand.

Iing the problem; rather it le often practicable and also oiten the most

destrable way.

?. Suppose that we decided to Invade Cube to control subversion

with the result (three cases):

That we restored the status no ante Castro.

ba: That for seasons of expediancy wo try to mintain Castro's

"'reforna"

- 1.e., what many lotinoes wolla regerd as "socialisn."

c. That ve gave the Cuban people an obvious free choice, no

matter what ensued.

How would the prospecte for Connism In the westero Hemisphere

be affected?

5503En

NH 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 125

---

## Page 126

TOP. SECRI

SaUSITIVA

Case A: Boomerang - we would almost certainly enhance the

prospects for Cormunism.

Case b: Thore would be strong popular latin American support,

some governmental outrege, but the prospecte for Communion would be

diminished.

Case C: Paradosically, the result would depend on what ensued,

because nost latin Americans do not trust the US (and particularly would

be sleptical of "free elections" if US soldiers were present).

CONCLUSIONS

1. Conditions in nost paris of Latin America are such that sub-

version (Cuban or Bloc or both) 1s really dangerous.

2. Since this is 80, the us oublic posture should not recognize

this; and we should abstain fron public pronouncements that subversion

1e conceivably a casus belli.

3. The point of view set forth in this paper, Insofar as 1ì con

be made operative, may tend to bring & fundamental alignment between the

US public postura and LA opinion.

4. The us course of action tovards any IA country has to weigh the

advantages and disadvantages, in any given case at any given time,

of

subversion control (a) at source or (b) as point of Impact.

5•

The sene principles would apply if another Commnist oriented

goverument were to come to power in any part of Latin America.

5

TOP SOROY - SINSITIVE

1H 50955 DOCTO: 32423736

Page 126

---

