# 198-10005-10015

## Page 1

198-10005-10015]

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY:

ARMY

RECORD NUMBER:

198-10005-10015

RECORD SERIES :

CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

ARMY

CYRUS R. VANCE

DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

TITLE: UTILIZATION OF ALPHA 66 IN OPERATIONS

DATE:

PAGES:

02/28/1963

3

SUBJECTS :

ALPHA 66 GROUP

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 3, Folder 2. Draft Memo regarding Alpha 66 for Deputy Secretary of Defense

from Cyrus Vance prepared by ACSI, but not used.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

DATE:

MAR 2016

Department of the Army EO 13526

w9.1

NH 50955

DocId: 32423733

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY

MEMORANDUM

28Fut63

Joe-

This is of interest

on z cruits -

MAP for Z, A-au

express mguin

under MAP. Krulabi

I thís (8 mill do it).

also this will be of

interest to Cal Baldurin fi

ATHT

50955 DocId: 32423733

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Draft

Kot Used

March 43 (?)

MEKORAHDON FOR

DEPUTY SUCRETARY OF DETENSE

SUBJBGT:

Vet Miration of Alpha 66 In Operations (S)

The Army clandentine intelligence beses 1o Sen Just, Tueste

Rico aud Miant, Flontds bave been in contact wich certain menbere of the

Alpha G6 Group

since october 1962, As the netivities of thie group vere

of primary intereot to the festatant to the Secretary, Brigadter Coneral

B. G. Lanadale, USAY, priority for pocaible utillaation nas peaved to

him.

General Lanadale relingulahed this priority Interest upon the

activation of the Intondepertmental Comittee on Cuba.

(5) Azuy clandestine intelligence elements have rafratned fron

entering into operational nogotiacions with Alpha G6 personnel purouent

to arrongemenca outlinad in paragraph 1, sapra; hovever, contact ulch

the Alpha 66 orgentsation vas retained.

Information concering sone of the past activities of the

Alpha 66 organiaation has boen obtained by CLa and Army opazational

elements.

Such Infornation bas been archanged with CIA.

• CLA representative, has atatod thet CIA do not currently

ucilizing cho Alpha 66 organization.

Prior to cooking coordination of a

spocifie operation with the DCI under the terms of DCID S/1, le will be

nacedoory to detonaine the types of clandencing intelligence settvictes

shich can be nunted vich the asotatance of said organtsacton.

4.

(3) I belteve that the Alpha 66 organization has on operational

pocential worthy of detailed invarigation and exploratory Aloenesion

along the following lines:

c. Sea and land transportetion support for clondantine

satelligence agents and clandestino Intolligence equlprant.

b. Conduct os a guerrilla-typo action agatact a prodeterined

sarges to obtata intelligonce information concerning nuch target (o-g.s

stantle cited and cococtated equipment) ;

not

rised

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOUNDES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY CECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

ATHT

50955

DoCT: 32423733

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

SONINGT:

Belliantion of Alpha 66 La Operations (S)

c. Quality, quantity, end seope of operational intorntien

posseseed by Alphe 66 which could be utilined for other clandestine

Intelligence activities mot dodocated with the Alpha 66 orgentratton,

Espoctally Importane w411 be an exanination of monetary coste, equinent

nine factoro, plaibility of dontal, wasn of control, and

expocted resulte; an luvastigation of these nopecto will roquire detailed

illacusatons.

I requeat that exploratory discusedon with an Alpha 65

representative as outlined in peragraph 4, above, be approvad by the

Spectal Group and that en Army Inteltigence representntive bo pernitted

to concace che eppropalate Alpha 66 ceprecentatavo for such purposes.

Dependent upon the reruito of such discunton,

I shalt subalt spectete

proposale.

Cyrus

Vance

Secretary of che

not used

frepared ly AC SI

2

SECRET

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS

NOT AUTOMATICALLY VECLASSIFIED

DOD DIR 5200.10

NH 50955 DocId: 32423733 Page 4

---

