# 202-10001-10225

## Page 1

202-10001-10225

Date

Page

08/04/98

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

202-10001-10225

FOIA SERIES

DOC 226

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP 14 SEP 62

DATE : 09/14/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

: Reviewed by CIA, State, OSD.

NO JOINT STAFF UBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

FEARES CONCURRENCE OF

DATE:

2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DooId: 32424956 Page 1

---

## Page 2

- The Department of State has no objection to the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Reviewed on g

130\98

14 September 1962

33°

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

PRESENT:

Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on

Operation MONGOOSE, 14 September 1962

Mr. Bundy; the Attorney General; Mr. Johnson; Mr. Nitze,

General Lemnitzer, General Lansdale; General Carter;

Mr. Donald Wilson

The Group approved in principle General Lansdale's paper

of 31 August, with the amendments that had been agreed upon at last

week's meeting and which were attached to General Lansdale's memo-

randum of 12 September.

However, Mr. Bundy made it clear that this

did not constitute blanket approval of every item in the paper and

that sensitive ones such as sabotage, for example, will have to be

presented

in more detail on'a case by case basis.

2.

General Lansdale noted that he has asked appropriate people

in the Pentagon to draw up estimates covering requirements for person-

nel, space, communications, etc., against the contingency that Cuban

operations will move into a more active phase and will require such

facilitie

, 2,1,5

3

of sabalging

General Carter said that CIA would examine the possibilities

lane parts which are scheduled to be shipped from

to Cuba

12,4 ported inden of dubven van easted E

CIA will attempt to develop hard intelligence on the re-

and perhaps elsewhere,

Mr. Johnson emphasized that any such evidence which could

be adduc

a before

Ministers'

meeting would be highly

valuable

5.

General Lansdale reported that the NSA collection program

is being stepped up considerably and should be in full swing by

1 November.

6.

Mr. Bundy expressed his concern about the necessity for

linking planning in the political and military fields with the MONGOOSE

operations.

He said that his tentative conclusion is that what is

required is a tightly knit interagency group closely tied to the

MONGOOSE group but not a part of it.: He said he would discuss this

concept with higher authority.

OSA, NO OBNECTION

AS

REDACTED

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED 23 JUNE 98 mikh

6(1(B)

NH 50955

DocId: 32424956 Page 2

#22617pP

---

## Page 3

- 2 - 4.

C/A

13 0(0)

7. ¿ General Carter reported on CIA's contacts with Pan American

regarding

its Havana flights. He said that the company had asked

the Agency to buy its blocked pesos at a one-for-one rate at a scale

of $140,000 a month retroactive to last May lst.

He said that in the

face of this proposal, CIA had agreed to buy $200,000 worth, provided

Pan American makes no move at this time to discontinue its service.

He said there were assurances that no such move would be made beforé

October Ist at the earliest.

After some discussion, the Group agreed that it is highly

desirable to maintain this service. On theother hand, it appears

that Pan American's estimates of the amount of money it is losing and

the amount of subsidy required to break evenjare apparently excessive.

General Carter undertook to look into the possibility, suggested by

the Attorney General, that Pan American could lower its quoted fare,

inasnuch as the company is not getting the benefit of the $20lnow in :

any case.

1, 2

It was generally agreed that government operation of this

service would be just as expensive as having Pan American continue it.,

8.

The Attorney General raised the question of actions by

Cuban exile students against the Castro regime. He recognized, as did

the rest of the Group, the fact that these activities can

serve as a

cover for future U.S.-sponsored operations.

On the other 'hand, it was

recognized equally that bad publicity could result. | It was suggested

that CIA might talk to selected students and spread the idea that any

active operations planned by them must in fact be reasonable and worth-

while ones, and to leave the idea that irresponsible actions might

lead to trouble for them in the future.

Thomas A. Parrott

cc:.. General Lansdale

HW

50955. DooId: 32424956

Page

3

---

