# 62-116395-2nd_nr_250x

## Page 1

Cief. AD Adin-

Dep. AD Inv. \

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. __

Ex. Syst

Ext. Affa

ker*.

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plen. & Eval. -

Spce. Inv: _-

Tiniring

Legal four. _

¿c'ertone Era. -

Duretor

8 4 SỮN 2 3 Yô/5 ROOM C

1 - Hir

B. Adams

1 - Mr.

T. J. Jenkins

CODE

TELNTYPE

NITEL

1 - Each Assistant Director

3

SLP

TO ALL SACS

JUNE 11,

1975

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116464)

PERSONAL, ATTENTION

1 - HI.

W. 0. Cregar

HOUSTUDY 75.

1 - Mr.

S. F, Phillips

REBUTELS MAY 2,20, 1975,

"SENSTUDY 75."

BUFIDE 62-116464 AND CODE NAVE "HOUSTUDY 75" DESIGNAZED

FOR ALL MAYERS RELATING NO HOUSE SEIRCT COITE TO STUDE

COVERIENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTEULIGENCE ACTIVITIES

AND BURRAU'S HANDLING OF MATTERS PARTAINING PHERITO. USE

THIS FILE NUMBER AND CAPTION FOR MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE

COMMITTEE AS SEPARATE FROM SENSTUDY 75 FOR MATTERS RELATING

TO SENATE COMMITTEE.

FEDERAL EUREAU CE MESMEROM

COMMUGIGATIONS SECTION

(19)

NOTE:

JUN 191976.

572€

TELEPYPS

ESF

- Referenced teletypes advised field of our pledge oi

full cooperation with Senate Comnittee and issued instructions

concerning handling contacts ith Senate Committee Staff as

well as handling of matters relating to interviews with present

and former Bureau employees.

Inasmuch as we have opened a

separate file under Houstudy 75, it is believed this teletypa

would assist in prompting better management of correspondence

between Bureau and field.

01C5

ALI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

11: :1"

Gaut

652116395-

NOT RECORDED

4ÖUN 23 1975

23 1975

TELETYPE UNIT

---

