# 62-117290-465

## Page 1

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, Li",

'ICHARDSON PREYER, N.C

VALTER E, TAUNTROY, D.C

SAi+

YVONNE TRAINNAIL BURKE CALIF

CHRISTETHER S, DODD, CONN.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYO J, FITHIAN, IND,

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

СНАЇ

i, сонн.

NO NEBR.

MARE indi SÄWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Hours

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.E. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

FEB 2 3 1978

2/24/28

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell.

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division; Room 2113-

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

• In connection with this Committee's investigation

the circumstances and death of Dr. Martin Luther King,

JI., it is requested

that the Federal Bureau of Investigation

provide access to

all Illes, recoras and miscellaneous items

on the following:

1) James Hubert Posey D.0.B. 10/22/27

aka James Herbert Posey

James

Ford Posey

Edward Redditt D.O.B. 1/10/31

3)

Buford. Posey D.O.B.8/28/2562-117290-465

Route 4, Box 96

Philadelphia, Miss.

REC-70

7 FEB 2'8 1978

Further, it is requested that the Bureau process for

delivery the following itemsh-ll

4) Correspondence to J. Edgar Hoover re: Martin

Luther King, Jx., from Joel P.

Keene.

Reference

is made to this letter in 105-180172-IX (Americar

Independent Party).

5)

Copies of all FD 302's in the Headquarter's

MURKIN Files of:

Charles Joseph Stein

D.O.B. 5/11/29

Rita Stein

D.0.B. 3/4/38

Marie Martin

D.0.B. 10/7/32

62-117290

.

TREA? AS 1978

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 2

184-16131

FEB 2 8 1978

FEB 23 5 23 PM 1979

I BEG BS 0I3

---

## Page 3

+ 092-3

.. The Honorable

Griffin B. Bell

Page Two

Finally, it is requested that the following agents

of the St. Louis field office in 1968 be made available:

Earl E. Brown

Albert Rushing

Howard C. Kennedy

Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated.

Very truly yours,

S. Robes Blabig

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghj

c: Mr. Danny O. Coulson

---

