# 62-116395-851_including_ebf_851

## Page 1

.2 - Мт.

Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - МІ.

W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

September 15, 1975

The Actorney General

etOr, FBI

S. SENATE SELUCI. COMMITTIL

DA ITKLLICLICE ACTIVITES (SSC)

a115115,

Roference 18 mede to SSC request for FBI naterials

dated. August 26,, 1975..

Inclosed: for your approval and forwarding. to the SSC

is the original of a venorandur which responds to the request

enumerated In the referenced comunication.. You will note

9110115

CANTEE

that this.sanorandus 18.a:comprehensive:response.which. covers.

the disposition and/or status of each: Individual request.

• TO

your records.

Enclosures. (2)

A copy: of this:nenorandun 1a being furnished for

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SHANEEN

TO

62-116395

AN DILIND

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael' I: Shahean,. Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

EWL: 1hb|hb

•(8)

REC- 102

62-116395-851

DELIVERED

821 OCT 9 1975

• Des, AD Admi

DeD, AD tir,

Admin.:

Comp. Systemig?

Files & Com, 17

Gon, tak, ame

Hort, sectat

Inspection.

• Laboratory "i

Pion, & Evalua

Lagal Gour.

84661048450014

44104

ENCLOSURE LY BULK

TELETYPE UNIT L

Wip

Eit

GT0 954-547,

---

## Page 2

62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mc. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

September 15, 1975

U. S. SENATI. SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY: GOVERNMENIAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO: INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

The following is a report on the status of the

request in rafaranced consunication:

Part I = 1. This request vas responded to in

our senorandus of September 5, 1975.

2. The request for access to naterials pertaining

¡to National Security Agency (NSA) Watch 'Ilst activity is

receiving priority attention.and will be responded to by

, separate communication.

3. Itens a, b, c'and d are being dellvered with

th18 nexorancer.

As the SSC has been advised, Iten e 18

recelving expedite handling and requested naterial will be

delivered as soon as possible. Iters f, and & have been

referred to the Department of justico.

4. and 5. Materials requested vill be delivered

with this nenorandus.

The natsrials requested pertaining to

CONNTELPRO are being collected and vili be delivered as

sis. Dia 8001 as avallable according to priority.

DeD, AD Adm, sa

7. Requested naterials pertaining to DI. Martin Luther

sms, King, JI., have been assigned special priority and will

Exp, Altairs was

continue to be furnished to the SSC in Individual

Filos & Com, *=

concunications as they are processed.

EWL:lhblhb

ORIGINAL AND ONE.COPY TO THE AG

(7)

SEE. NOTE PAGE 3

Lobprgtory.coua

Plan, & Eval, =

Spoor love manoe

Training arous

Logol Counse

MAIL ROÖMIE TELETYPE UNIT C

62 112395-85nd

Eut

---

## Page 3

•SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

8. and 9. Information concerning the identities

of current and former FBI employees requested has been

collected and 1s being furnished by separate communication.

K1ng, J. and To being process else to Mader tethe

above.

Part II - 1. Material was requested pertaining

to PBI activity with respect to seven investigations.

Material has been collected concerning the following

and 15 avallable for access at FBI Headquarters:

2, National Organization for Hosen;

b. August 26 Women's Strike for Equallty;

e. New York Women's Ilberation Contes;

f. Homen's Ilberation Moverent.

No rain file or record of investigation vas located

concerning the following:

c.

Philadelphia Organization for Women for

Employment Rights;

d. October 23-October 25, 1970, women's neeting

at Fellowship Hall, Ilmerick, Pennsylvania;

g.

Women's Action Alliance.

2. This request 1s for access to Executive Conference

abstracts which were missing from the abstracts already

provided for access.

It Is noted that serial number 12964

of this list 1s contained in Humber 5, Part I. No abstracts

were located concerning the other serials in the list; however,

a review of the file itself indicated that these serialo

represent Executive Conference menorande which, according to

administrative records regulations, were exempted from the

abstracting process. The memoranda represented in the request

have been duplicated and are avallable for review at FBI

Headquarters.

An axception to this i5 serial 12936 which was

not located in file and is apparently nonexistent and

represents a skip in serialization.

- 2-

---

## Page 4

SENATE SELECT COMMITIEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES (SSC)

3. No control file 1s maintained concerning the

Speclal Services Staff of the Internal Revenue Service. As

a conseguenco, coples of correspondence or records of contacts

between the FBI and the Special Services Staff would be

maintained only in the individual Investigative file concerned.

SAC letter 69-45, paragraph (C), dated August 26, 1969, deals

with "Internal Revenue Service (IRS) • INVestIgatiONS Of

New left and Extrenist Organizatlons.and Indlviduelg--."

This 15 avallable for review at FBI Headquarters. For your

further infomation, a report entitled "Investigation of the

Special Services Staff," published June 5, 1975, by the

Congressional Joint Connittee on Internal Reverse, dealt

specifically with this natter.

4. Material requested concerning Ron Karenge and

Whitney Young has been compiled and 18 avallable for access

at FBI Headquarters.

•5, This matertal 1800t being nade available at

this time on Instructions from the Department of Justice

pending further inquiry into whether this naterial comes

under the protection of a court order in pending' litigation.

1 - The Attorney General

NOTE:

Referenced request from SSC was subject of conference

-held 9/9/75 among Bureau, Department and SSC representatives.

As a result, certain priorities were set for pending request.

Comprehensive review of status of request in this IHM reflects

these priorities.

- 3 -

---

## Page 5

to A C

1-DAC

9/15/75

Ens.

August 26, 1975

REQUEST FOR FBI MATERIALS

Part I. Request for delivery

Slare=

Lo Materials pertaining to NSA watch list activity, requested

for access in Part V.E. of the reguest of August 5, 1975.

adle dal medals staring to not satch list artister polars

as, set forth below. (access

The original list on American citizens whose names were

submitted by the Bureau to the NSA for inclusion on

the Watch List. This list is referred to in the 18

May 1962 memorandum from W. R. Wannall to W. C. Sullivan:

bi:

The original request to the NSA to monitor illegal travel

between Cuba and the United States through a third

country:

This request is referred to in the 16 January 1963 menorandum

from W. R. Wannall to W. C. Sullivan.

C.

A list of all American citizens among the 65 individuals

in Cuba whose names were submitted by the Bureau to

the : NSA

for inclusion on

the Watch List.

This list

'is referred

to in the 16 January 1963 memorandum from W. R. Wannall to

f. C. Sulliven.

* ..

¿. A list of the 300 Security Index subjects whose names were'

submitted by the Bureau to the NsA for inclusion on the

Watch List:

These subjects are referred to in the 16

January 1963 memorandum from W. R. Wannall to W: C. Sullivan.

e. The

Bureau's Watch List for the NSA which was current as

Of 1 April 1965.

This list is referred to in the 6 April.

1965 memorandum from W. R. Wannall to W. C. Sullivan.

f.. Materials pertaining to correspondence between the Bureau

and the NSA regarding the watch hist from 1965 to 1970.

.g.

A list of the "New Left Key Activists" whose names were

submitted by the Bureau to the NSA for inclusion on the

Watch List:

This list is referred to in the 3 June 1970

letter

from J. Edgar Hoover to the Director, NSA.

A list of the individual black extremists whose names were

submitted by the Bureau to the NSA for inclusion on the Watch

This list is referred to in the "Note" at the end of

9 March 1971 letter from J. Edgar Hoover to the Director, NSA.

1. The 29 memoranda regarding

Weatherman fugitives which were

enclosed with the 16 April

1973 letter from I. Patrick Gray

to the Dixector, NSA.

ENCLOSURE: 62-116395-951

---

## Page 6

j. The Watch List current as of 21 September 1973.

This watch

List is referred to in

the 26 September 1973 internal

memorandum on the Keith case.

k.

A copy of the watch List which was delivered to Henry

S. Petersen.

This watch list is referred to in the 22

January 1974 letter from Petersen

to Director Kelley:

1.

the "product" received from the NSA regarding the following

individuals and organizations whose names had been submitted

by the Bureau for inclusion on the Watch List:

1) Grover C. 'McArthur

2)

Rọy Innis

3) Charles Garry

student

National Coordinating Committee

5) Black Student Association, Memphis State University

3.. The following materials pertaining to mail surveillance:

ROSS

a.

Memorandum from D. J:

Dalbey to Mr. Tolson, dated 26

July 1971, captioned.

"Mail Covers/Irash Covers."

b'o:

Letter from William J. Cotter, Assistant Postmaster

eneral, aspection so Vete, ere to en, dated

12 October 1971.

letter from Mr. Hoover to Mr. Cotter dated 14 October

1971.

c..

Memorandum from W. R. Wannall to E. S. Miller, dated

13 October 1971 captioned "Requests for Mail Covers."

This memorandum is referred to in the letter from

Mr. Hoovex to Mr. Cotter dated October 14, 1971.

&.

Memorandum from the legal Counsel to . B. Adams, datec

15 July 1974, captioned "Mail Covers.'

This memorandün

is referred to in the 15 July 1974 memorandum from the

Director, FBI, to the Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Divison, captioned "Mail Covers.

e. All' materials pertaining to requests by the Bureau for

• special mail covers

from 1971 through 1975 which have not

been previously delivered to the Senate Select Committee:

This request encompasses all special mail covers which

have been terminated, regardless of whether the investi-

gation for which the special mail cover was requested is

active or inactive.

---

## Page 7

•=3.

fo

All materials pertaining to cases in which prosecution

by the Justice Department.

is not limited to, material pertaining to meetings or

correspondence between Bureau ana departmental personnel Ir

regard to such casesi

material pertaining to the decisions

not to prosecute, and material pertaining to knowledge of

any Department personnel of FBI mail intercept activity

in such cases.

All materials reflecting knowledge and/or authorization of —

FBI mail intercept activity by Department officials.

1. All materials pertaining to the following IBl practices, REITf

including but not limited to the origins, authorization.

periodic review; and termination.of the practices:

a.

Use of

automatic data processing by the extremist

Intelligence and New Left Sections,

and any other

related Sections; of the FBi Intelligence Division

in connection with the Computerized Telephone Number

File.

b. Incorporation of the Security Indes into the FBI's

computerized data bank and the availability of this...

data to all offices through automatic data processing.

C:.

The use of automatic data processing to store, collate,

or otherwise handle lists öf key Activists, New left.

and Extremists individuals, addresses, phone numbers;

demonstrations in which certain individuals have parti-

cipated, summary reports or listings required for

dissemination to the field offices or other interested

5.

The Executive Conference memoranda reflected in the following

abstracts:

• R. MOORE

94-3-1-23957

66-2554-12745

66-2554-12761

66-2554-12790

66-2554-12795

66-2554-12801

66-2554-12806

66-2554-12808

66-2554-12828

66-2554-12832

66-2554-12834

---

## Page 8

66-2554-12848

66-)554-12875

66-2554-12877

66-2554-12887

66-2554-12910

66-2554-12949

66-2554-12958

166-2554-12962

66-2554-12961

66-2554-12964

66-2554-12968

66-2554-12966

66-2554-12971

66-2554-12972

66-2554-12978

66-2554-12984

66-2554-12996

66-2554-12998

66-2554-12999

66-2554-13001

66-2554-13011

66-2554-13014

66-2554-13016

66-2554-13025

66-2554-13026

5. The following materials pertaining to COINTEDPRO: TETTUS

Unexcised copies of all originating documents previously

delivered

pursuant to letter of July 18, 1975.

bi

The July 14, 1964 memorandum from Mr. Baumgardner to

Mr. Sullivan, captioned "Counterintelligence Program;

Internal Security (Soviet-Satellite Intelligence)"

contains the following statement:

"At the end of this

i do and hot patton rod on 805.

Please subrait

evaluation and recommendations.

The July 15, airtel to SAC, New York, Chicago, and

Washington Field, captioned "COINTELPRO--Internal

Security: (Soviet-satellite intelligence)

contains the

following statement:

"Within 30 days reach of these

offices should

submit to the Bureau reconnendations

and detailed plans for implementing one or several

such operations." Please submit all memoranda and

materials reflecting said recommendations and detailed

plans.

---

## Page 9

SM1+9%-17

-

51-

a. The airtel described in Item c. above also contains the

statement:

"other offices participating in the COINTELPRO

against the CPUSA are urged

to:: • promptly make available

any comments or suggestions to, the Bureau and the 3 offices

participating in this new endeavor."

Please submit all

_nemoxanda and other materials reflecting said comments

and suggestions:

e.

The airtel described: in Item C. above also refers to

"Bulets dated 9/13/63 and 3/16/64" which were attached

to said airtel. Please submit copies of these two "Bulets"

£ .

The August 25, 1967 letter described in Item

includes the statement:

"at this time the Bureau is

setting up no requirement: for status letters to be period-

submitted under this program."

Please submit any

materials which subsequently set up a requirement for

status letters, and all status letters which were there-

after received.

All memoranda and: other materials which reflect recon

mendations and decisions at FBI Headquarters to transmit

the 'letter described' in Item e. above.

An unexcised copy of the March 4, 1968 airtel from the

Director to the SAC, Albany, captioned "Counterintelligence

program, Black Nationalist-Hate Groups, Racial Intelligence."

1.

The March 4, 1968 airtel described in Itemh. above

contains "Instructions" that each of the addressed fiela

offices are to submit certain advice, summaries, lists,

and suggestions within 30 days.

Please forward

memoranda and materials received by Headquarters in

response to the instructions..

the individual suggestets shich wese nee sumacted by

separate letter!)

j. The March 4, 1968

airtel

described in Item h. above also

requires: each office, to "submit a progress letter"

each

90-days.

Please submit copies of all

such progress letters.

All status letters received by FBI Headquarters pursuant

co the instructions contained in the day 10, 1968 letter

• from the Director to all offices, captioned

"Counterintelligenc

Program: Internal

Security, Disruption of the New ieft."

---

## Page 10

1.

The "NYlet captioned "Communist Party, USA; Counter-

intelligence Program; IS - C: (Ia Cosa Nostra) ,"

dated 9/22/66" which is referenced in the communication

from the Directox to the SAC, New York, captioned "Hoodwink

"(Internal Security)" dated 10/5/66.

• То

-Bulet 11/14/60 captioned BOCOV, which is referenced in the

connunications from the Director SAC, San Diego, captioned

Counterintelligence-Border Coverage Program, dated 1/9/61.

Please submit all documents which modity the originatin

-

Jocuments furnished, including büt not limited to the

modification of Item h: above, to all 3PP offices.

requiring the biweekly sübmission of counterintelligence

recommendations and reports, dated 1/30/69.

о..

Please furnish all 90-day status reports, as otherwise

specifically requested, from all COINTELPRO programs.

P.

Any yearly evaluations of the various cOINTelPRos

prepared by the Bureau, the two documents relating to the

termination of all COINTELPROS: 1) memorandum from C. D.

Brandon to W. C. Sullivan dated 4/27/71, Captioned :

'"Counterintelligence Prograns (COINTELPROS)'; and 2) aircel'

to SAC; Albany, dated 4/28/71, daptioned "Counterintelligence

7. The following materials pertaining to FBI activity with regard

to DI. Martin Luther King, Jx.:

paralan

a: Page 7 Of FBI's memorandum of July 24, 1975, identifying

electornic surveillance: reflects that or. Kino "was

overheard on three occasions on tesurs on other parties".

Please identify the targets, addresses, and dates of

installation and

termination::

b. Memorandum reference in Item a. above indicates that

there might have been additional surveillances on which

DI: King was monitored, however, this information can't

be retrieved because the elsur indices "did not come into

existence until October 5, 1966."

Please provide

further elaboration of this problem in view of the

instructions sent to field offices in October 1966 direct-

¡no them to submit "the names of all individuals whose

• voices have been monitored

through a microphone installed

or a telephone surveillance operated by the office anytime

since January one, one nine six zero."

---

## Page 11

-7-

sentudy

8.'

The locations, addresses, and telephone numbers of all

supervisors and coordinators for New Left and Black Extremist

COINTELPROS for 1967-71 in the following cities: New York.

Motor: Bos Angoles San Diego, St soulso Chicagor Demeady

9.

The locations, addresses, and telephone numbers of all

supervisors and coordinators for white Hate COINTELPROS

for 1964-71 in the following cities:

Jackson, Atlanta,

Richmond, Alexandria.

10. All materials which relate: to a meeting between the FBI

Director and representatives of Newsweek Magazine (Benjamin

Bradlee and Jay

of 1964; including but not limited to:

a. Proposals; invitations, and replies. for such meeting.

b. Arrangements, briefings, and preparations for such

meetings.

summaries or other evidence of what occurred at such

meeting.

d. Conversations between Mc. Bradlee andior Mx. Iselin, and

former FBI official Cartha Leloach on the day of the

meeting or proposed meeting with the Director.

...

---

## Page 12

Part II. Request for Access

• 1... All materials pertaining to FBI activity with respect to the

following:

National Organization for Women

b.

C.

d.

August 26 Women's Strike for Equality

M.

Philadelphia Organization for Women for Employment Rights

October 23-October 25, 1970 women's reeting at Fellowship

Hall, Limerick, Pennsylvania

e.

New York Women's Liberation Center

Women's Liberation Movement

g.

women's Action Alliance

20.

The following Executive Conference abstracts which are

missing from the abstracts already provided for access:

66-2554-12741

66-2554-12742

66-2554-12750

66-2554-12753

66-2554-12788

66-2554-12789

66-2554-12825

66-2554-12830

66-2554-12863

66-2554-12870

RiMOORE

66-2554-128981

66-2554-12925

66-2554-12930

66-2554-12936-

66-2554-12951

66-2554-12959

66-2554-12964-

66-2554-12988

authoutes for

3.

All documents relating ta disclosure of information to

IRS Special Services Staff other than the documents

actually furnished

and all documents relating to (including,

• documents generated as the result of) disclosure to FBI or

Justice Department of information gathered by Special

Services Staff::

Johnson

-

-

---

## Page 13

Grakam

9

Thor

4. All materials pertaining to the opening and maintenance

of a Bureau file; if any. on the following persons and

organizations, including material reflecting the

decision to open the file,

the information compilea in

the file, and any other Bureau activity related to the

subject-and recorded in the file:

Ron. Karenga

b. Whitney Young

Daly

5. The following materials pertaining to events in Chicago

in November and December, 1969:*

a. All

materials developed between November 1, 1969,

and

December 4, 1969, relating to the existence

weapons in possession of the Chicago Black Panther

Party at the apartment at 2337 West Monroe Street:

Chicago, Illinois.

b.

All FBI inspection reports of other reports

relating to the raid conducted on Decenber 4, 1969;

by the Cook County State's Attorney's police, at

the apartment identified above..

c.'

All FBI materials reflecting dissemination of information

pertaining to the Black Panther Party or members thereof.

to the Cook County State's Attorney's Office or members

of the State's Attorney's police between November 1, 1969;

and December 4, 1969:

d.

All FBI materials reflecting dissemination of information

pertaining.

to the Black Panther Party or members thereor to

the Gang Intelligence Unit of the Chicago Police Department

between November 1, 1969, and December 4, 1969

e:

All materials reflecting contacts by personnel of the EBIi

including

members of the Racial Matters Squad of the

Chicago field office, with personnel of the State's

Attorney's office, State's Attorney's police and Can‹

Intelligence Unit of the Chicago Police Department between

November 1 and December 4, 1969, with respect to the Black

Panther Party and members

thereof.

---

## Page 14

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee: -

Senate Select Committee

ELTR ELHM [Memo I Report dated 9/15/75

Caption of Document: Response to requests in Parts I

and II of Elliff's letter dated 8/26/75.

FBI

Originating Office:

Delivered by:

Haul L Nal

-Doo: 9/15/35

Received by:

Title:

Resurn shis roceips to she Intelligenco Dirision, FBI

AU. IXFORIVATION CONTA NES

ENCLOSURE,

12.116295-851

---

## Page 15

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Comunity Staft

ATTN: Central Index

CLASSITY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select:Committees

•How pRovIDeOrtheck appropedatat.erm

Il a document weo made available

or perlew but not transmitted.

no noto.)

EL DOCUMENT ERIGEING INTERVIENE

TESTIMONY

3, TO WHOM PROVIDIO (CHECK

appropriaLE termi add specifie namen il appropriato)

2, DATE PROVIDEO

9/15/75

55€

HSC

A, IDENTIFICATION Sprovide descriptive data los documente: elve namo or identilicatión number of bideler,

interrieres.

tentilier and subieet)

Menorandus

IN RESPONSE TO (LIST

requent of (name), initlatiro.

•SSC letter 8/26/75, Parts 1 and 2

• forjad, saqueas, ornor.

CLASSIFICATION OF

INFORMATION lenter

Codeword)

dey ronde entoror empheragiaro key. vorde from the Lial providad asparataly: il key worde nos

liated ars

ALL ETCRATOY CONTAR

Inforsation handling

q' Intelligence collection

.

SUMMARY (ace réverse dide Defore completine tria

item)

Materiala partaining to; Mall survalllance; use of autoustic

data procesaing by Extresist Intelligence and Haw Left Sections;

Incorporation of Security Index, Key Activinko, Nov Loft and

Extrealata into fBl's conputerized data bank and avallabllity

a lav 1086

of thia data to all officos through autonatic data processing;

EracutIve Conference senoranda; Avallable for revien at

FBIHNS InFOrmatIOn on varIouA HOnen'a OrganIIations; SIC let

69-45, dated 8/26/69, deale with'Internal Revenue Servica-

Investigatlons.of New.Left and.Extroulat:0xganizations.som

Individuals; Material regarding Ron Karenga and thitney Young.

TREAT AS YELLOW

62÷116395

FMK: fmic

(4)

ORIGINAL, VIA LIAISON IO CENTRAL. COMMUNITY INDEX

379| 66.75)

CLASSIFY

AS:A

ROPRIATE

---

