# docid-32303138

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10150

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-102

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/18/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

H# 45854

DocId: 32303138

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date:

PLAIN

TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

8/18/61

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR,, FBI (92-2918)

FROM:

RE:

SAG, MIAMI (92-155)

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka '

AR

/ SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

AR

(00:

Pittsburgh)

ReButel to Pittsburgh 8/17/61, with reference to

Pittsburgh estimating the value

and recommendation of

as to whetherfor not he should be included in the top echelon

criminal inforgant program.

OTHER 4

was formerly a CI of the Miami Office. It

was necessary to, discontinue him as such for reasons previously

furnished the Bureau and no change has come about whereby Miami

recommends consideration be given to him as a CI. It is recom

mended that"any information he may desire to furnish be ob-

tained from him, however, the same not sought inasmuch as it

is believed

him, however,

would use this to his own advantage and to

the embarrassment of the Bureau at a subsequent time.

1194

EX.105

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

3

Bureau (AM)

2

Pittsburgh• (1 - 92-236) (1

92-228)

3 - Miami (1 - 87-8049) (1 - 137-2065)

HWS: amc

(8)

92-2918-182

24

AUG 21

1961

ic. wickl

JUPG

8-21-61

griBig

AUG 225,1961

Approved:

leor

Special Agent

Charge

Sent

_M

Per

HW

45854 DocId:32303138 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FT-36 TRev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following. in

Via

F BI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

On the night of 8/17/61, MM 722-C, who is a close

associate of MEROLA and who is a close associate of one MEL

ADLER, who is an associate of MEROLA, advised he had been

informed by MEROLA and by ADLER that. MRROLA has been stating

that he will not have to serve any time in the case entitled

•"STUART SUTOR, Et Al; IISP; IGT; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY."

MEROLA has stated that the matter has been taken care of in.

Philadelphia and it has cost him a "tremendous bundle" to

have his pending five year sentence suspended and have him

placed on probation. He has indicated this will transpire.

next Thursday or Friday, on the 24th or 25th of August,

when he was

supposed to start serving his sentence. He

allegedly is to appear before the Federal Judge in Pittsburgh

at that time to be placed on probation. •

MEROLA is presently a top jewel thief of the Miami

Office, and is known to be, and has admitted to the Pittsburgh

Agents, that he pulled the major theft this last winter at

the Hofbrau Haus in Hallandäle, Fla.

Miami requests the Bureau give authority to

Pittsburgh to inform the Federal Judge at Pittsburgh concern-

ing statements made by MEROLA. These are namely, that he has

spent a "tremendous bundle" to have his case fixed in Pitts-

burgh to where he will be placed on probation rather than

serve his pending five year sentence.

Poset

-° 2

Approved:

Sent

_M .

Per.

Special Agent in Charge

45854 DocId: 32303138 Page 3

---

