# docid-32292302

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10078

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-394

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/28/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

GAL, ASSOC, BUSS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292302

382

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-11 (Roy. 6-2-61)

9:257

N'

12/28801 206

a Radio

DECODED COPY

xx& Teletype

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad®

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram.

"Gandy,

BETT

DEFERRED

12-28-61

6:38 PM

CST

EAH

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

282135

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY, CG 6443-C, HAS ADVISED

THAT THE PROPERTY RENTED BY LOUIS ARGER, CLOSE ASSOCIATE

OF ALEX IN CONNECTION WITH HIS ARCADES AND STRIP JOINTS

LOCATED ON SOUTH STATE STREET, CHICAGO, IS OWNED BY ONE

MORTON ABELSON OF THE BARTON DISTILLER COMPANY, CHICAGO,

WHICH DISTILLS WHISKY IN KENTUCKY. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT

ABELSON OWNS THE PROPERTY ON WHICH THE SUPER ARCADE IS BUILT

AND FURTHER THAT THE SUPER ARCADE WAS BUILT AT THE SUGGESTION

OF GUS ALEX FOR LOUIS ARGER. IT IS NOTED THAT LEO LENIT

IN A RECENT INTERVIEW ADVISED THAT HE IS SOLE OWNER OF THE

UPER ARCADE AND DENIED THAT ALEX OR ARGER HAD ANY INTERES

N THIS ENTERPRISE OR THAT HE HAD TO PAY ANYONE FOR PROTECTIO

OR FURNISH ANY PORTION OF HIS PROFITS TO ANYONE. IT IS ALSO

NOTED THAT CG 6443-C HAS ADVISED THAT LENIT IS AN EMPLOYEE

0

ARGER AND IS USED BY ARGER IN CONNECTION WITH LICENSES FOR

HIS AMUSEMENT ARCADES AND STRIP JOINTS ON SOUTH STATE STREET.

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

7:49 PM

EJG

REG. A

92-3182-3914

25 DEG 29 1901

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl,

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32292302 Page 2

---

