# docid-32149268

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act oF 1992 T4T USC 2107 Hote).™

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10087-10144

62-109060-7699

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :.

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

AG

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/11/1977

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JFK, ADMIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32149268

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

170 IRes: 322

5010-100

ED.TION

LSA GEN

RfG.

NO 17

LITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Assistant Attorner General

Criminal Division

FROM

Director. FBI

File

DATE:

4/11/77

SL'BJECT

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

11/22/63

DALLAS, TEXAS

Reference is made to

memorandum dated

, (your file

dated

There is enclosed one copy

4/6/77

0!x*X X9

Dallas e

Texas

XAX*-an LHM

A. [ This covers the preliminary investigation and no further action concerning

a full investigation will be taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

B. The investigation is continuing and you will be furnished copies of

reports as they are received

C. • The investigation requested

by you has now been completed. Unless

advised to the contrary no further inquiries will be made by this Bureau.

D. _ Pursuant to instructions issued by the Department, no investigation will

be conducted in this matter unless specifically directed by the Department.

E. I Please advise whether you desire any further investigation.

developments.

F. This is submitted for your information and you will be advised of further

G. X This is submitted for your information and no further investigation will

be conducted unless specifically requested by the Department.

H. L This covers the receipt of a complaint and no further action will be

taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

Enc. - 1

529

1025

FA01

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32149268

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOTE: A review of Jack Ruby's testimony before the Warren

Commission on 6/7/64, indicates

that Ruby testified that he

was at the "Dallas Morning News" building at the time of

Kennedy's assassination on 11/22/63. Ruby advised he went

to the News building at approximately 11:00.a.m. on the

morning of 11/22/63, to arrange for advertising space for

his night club. Ruby's testimony was corroborated in part

by the testimony of John William Newnam an Advertising

Department employee of the "Dallas Morning News."

Newnam

testified before the Warren Commission on 6/26/64. No

further attempts being made by our Dallas Division to interview

Robert Murray Vanderslice at this time.

- 2

DocId: 32149268

Page 3

---

