# docid-32196799

## Page 1

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

UITANUAUUIA LUIDOIN

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10267-10140

RECORD SERIES: PD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-21-140, 141, 142, 143

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIT

FROM:

• TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/07/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JFK, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC FBI R/S, MEMO, RCMP LTR

DocId: 32196799

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releasedcunder. the Te

DATE: 11-14-2017

2107 Hotel:

2605-VE. 12th

Portland,

May 7, 1954

MAY 2 9 1904

Commanding Adniral

Bremerton Naval District

Bremertor, Washington:

1-503-282-2938

Is Mavy going to allow families of the Pacific Northwest to be turned into

ATOMIC DUST by taking a chance on a NUCLEAR HOLOCAUST? Somewhere along the

beaches of Washington or Oregon is a lARK 46 TORPEDO, MED WITH A NUCLEAR

VARUDAD.

Stop misleading the people, "WARNING,

1 FIARK POT AND etc. MAY BE ON THE

BEACHES. DON'T TOUCHI, BUT CALI NAVI." This NUCLEAR WARHEAD is triggered by

& MAGNETIC IMPULSE DETONATOR. Any piece of metal, such as a shovel. can trigger

this WARIEAD.

The MARiLo is built in Southern California and airlifted to the NAVAL TORPEDO

TEST STATION. KEYPORT, WASHINGTON. IT IS THEN TESTED IN THE WATERS OF THE NORTH

WEST. FIND THIS ERRATIC ONE, then load it with the other MArkLors that are at

the NAVAI TORPEDO TEST STATION AT KIPORT, send them back to CALIFORNIA.

Release my certified letters mitten to the Secretary of Navy. Inform the people

Of UPCORE, (JUSTICE FOR THE CY OF THE THRESHER). JECOIT, was formed after the

loss of the SUBMARINE THRESHER. Months before the THRESHER carried a 129. young

AMERICANS to a horrible death, NAVAL OFFICIALS WERE WARNED THAT THIS WOULD

HAPFEN. (CERTIFIED LETTER, RETURN RICEIPT # 684 078)

1t the Naval court of inquiry on the loss of the THRISHER, It. James D. Watson

USN, testified,... "We heard sounds that are familiar to me from having seen

ships blown up by TORPEDOS in World war II....!!

Navy officials knew that FRAUDULt methods were being used by the BENDIX CORP.

in the testing of the MARk46 at the NAVAI TORPEDO TEST STATION.

Still NAVAL

OFFICIALS STOOD SILENT, AS THE THRESHER CARRIED A 129 AMERICANS TO A HORRIBLE

DEATH.

RELEASE THE FULL STORY ON IND DINGERS THE PEOPLE IN THE NORTH WEST FACE.

still have contes of the confimation telegrans I sent you and other NAVAL

OFFICIALS. Inform the public of JecoIt and their avowed way of "GETTING"

Justice.

During the past months. this ORGANIZATION has even been

NUCLEAR WARHEADS?

On the RESTRICTED AREA OF ARE LE KEYPORE, WASHINGION HEROE

Respectiully,

JUN 2 2 1964

FBI -PORTLAND

TUCK

Edward E. Brav

(ex) Field Eng. in Che.

Navy Mari46 Sea Accot. Tests ".

Ñaval Iospedo Test Station, Keyport, Washington

IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE NUCLAR TARHEAD HAS BECOME DETACHED FROM THE TORPEDO.

IN SIZE, IT IS NOT VERY LARGE BUT VERY.

VERY DANGEROUS, IF METAL. OBJECIS ARS

BROUGHT NEAR IT.:

DocId: 32196799 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Join F. "Keredy Assassination Records

Collection Art

"D£ 1992

DATE: 11-11-2017

-ISC

2107 Hote).

THE COMMISSIONER,

R. C. M.

POLICE,

OTTAWA 8,

CANADA

FILE NO. D 993-0-202

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA 8,

CANADA

June 11, 196.

CONFIDENTIAL

Dear Mr. Innes:

Attached please find copies of the letter

received by the Chief of Police, Victoria, B.C., Who

received

same in an airmail envelope postmarked

Fortland, Oregon, PoM. 9 May 1964.

The contents of

this letter are being forwarded for your information

and disposition as you see fit.

2.

We have been advised that the District

Intelligence Officer,. 13th Naval District, Seattle,

has been informed of

the receipt of the attached letter

by the Chief of Police, Victoria, B.C. and the Royal

Canadian Navy.

Yours very truly,..

(J.RoW. Bordeleau) ,

Assistant Commissioner,

Director,

Security and Intelligence.

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE

INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY, IT MAY BE DISSEMI-

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

NOT TO DE NAGED AS THE SOURCE.

Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S.

Embassy,

100 Wellington Street,

OTTAWA, Ontario.

89-21-141

SEARCHED …..

INDÉXED •

SERIALED PACINO HUR

JUN 2 2 1964

FBI - PORTLAND

roun

DocId: 32196799 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/Released underythe John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

5-8% (Rev 4-29-52)

To:

Director, FBI

Date:

(Bufile :

Attention

CONFIDENIIAL

June

1o, 196.

)

From: Legal Attache, Ottawa

( 163-0-134

Title

Character

EDWARD F. BRAY

FPC

2606 N. E. 12th

Reference

Portland, Oregon

No prior correspondence.

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP:

RCMP letter dated June I1, 1964,

together with

letter from EDWARD F. BRAY dated May 7, 1964.

Remarks:

Two copies'

of

two copies of

For information.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668510/sel

DECLASSIFY, ON: 25X_(6.

371C) 222/9

11-14-93

103.1

FOD KSK

ALL IRONMATON CONTAINED

MENE

C. A6 SIFIED

EXOCRE WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Cra820958

Doct

Dissemination

May be made as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance With RCMP] (C)

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Seattle and Portland

Status with this office:

RUC

Pending

4

- Bureau (Encs: 4)

(1-ea: Seattie

and Portland)

Do not write in space below

89-21-142

SEARCHED

ERIALIZED FILED ANN

JUN 2 2: 1964

MLI : MEG

(4)

DocId: 32196799 Page 4

CORTINENTAP

---

