# docid-32313191

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10326-10119

RECORD SERIES : DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1354-14

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/23/1964

5

ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32313191

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

SAC, MAN: (405: 1742)

$/23/06

BAG, DALAO (1G6-1356) (P)

ARA-TIDEL CASTRO ACXIVITINS DU FEE INITED

OXA8ED

18 - C03a

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

00 - MXAJ1

HEREIN IS UMCLASSIFIED

DATE 6-11-48 BY 5668 SLD KSE

Do Nor Criesns airtel

to dinst,

copt sonec

matce? concorDing the speaking

tom of CARLOS Joas

ESPOSIO-

Coverage bas boon essectod on the varions apouring

engagonants of BUNCOtt in the Dallae Division and & sumary

of his astirition and ol tho inforsation recolved.

1a

13 13

divislon

Aros sources:

folless :

C3-DE 1008 furnished Interuation to SA BOVIN D.

BUTKORDAL on 5/20/64 reflacting approximately 40 persons

attoniod & noting

the Contre: Daptist Church,

Teres,

begianing 7130 Ply

5/23/69*

The pastor of the chureb

Dronided and introduced Dr. BILLT JANES

satriotic songs

toze sung ond

Intersture of the

Chelot lan

AntA-Connunist

Crusade nas distributod at the entrance soy.

MARGES introduced CARLOS BEINGUES as the person

gho debatod LES MAIVEX OSMANS In 1903 on a radio progran

sa boatedane.

• Communlat Agont

workies nat CabiRO.

Scrialize...

Tridex

File

Search

BRANO VASA

Ches spous

identilico hlaso18

as

Caban-

is sade bis mole

Bad boon as os1t01ol du

Cuba

that

price to

the prousdeney

of Batista:

FOUL CAIRO bOO

FO0ELUOS-

personally

SALES VIES

described

assassinated one of his

Zonvine Cuss and

60010g

Hen Orleons:

Louisiana

nor a resident.

nate he not

634240

st 1960 nbos

attor entered

mate place

of busines aud

advised ho was incorestod

1n holping

3EXIG UI3R

troth Balle Cubans

to fight

against

CAS380.

BELECURER

suspicions or CALD,

because a dew doys

320

20001ved

Antornat lou

socoone 1e Mou

0 loans

pre- Castro spy.

said ho foit sure

USELE

Castro auy*

BRING VIER 6181200

laterestaons in the

or-aaisation Cabar Student Director ete*

2 end

1613)

fog Celoans

: (35) (Zac.

Houston

(2E)

31

Vaso

(Kes

Bas Astonio (RS)

DalLas

Nad/as 49)

18311354114

54046

DocId: 32313191

Page 2

---

## Page 3

106 1369

BaldiEr, in this caus, maid be had saain not

OSAL & Lew

Gays Later ob

carrying

annonnoing bis favor of cAlito.

he called

O9W%D & Araldor and a

Coanaasat ano

that

thay

not os

the 3:200t*

SAANG DISA

chaloed

i GOSAID Dad

, Marine Treining

Dock 20

anotiaz person and taside

cover of this bool

wAS 1h0

PINDALA

(phonetic)

ARIGOLEK oletnad

taracd this took ovor fe inveatigative

asthosttles and

told his tart story to authorition avous

OCTALE.

No stated

0092id nod

he had debated

tho radio fa

Nos Crleans * OSILD being pro Castro, and BAIGOIE&

anti-Caatzo.

BRENGGASE

• Boat on

to say he had holgad

trade

Balto Cubans

Lo loc Crions area nad clairod that "so* and

#one people" had recently buznod

sugar cons

Jelds or allie.

1 Cuba-

Se sa1d

Cuban Ssaleo are prepared

and selling

to rovolt actinat

CAIRO.

BALO UILE

had rogerds on anto for

• 36. 00

00csp

nhách

silegediy

oos de tavad

* conversation, betusca

Alasole and

OSCARS+

No nas also soiling

leafleta for $.25

bag

• GODy*

MARGIS thoroattes

apole 01

savers. political notters.

Is said BRINGUINS were working for bin on a salary

bas it

And

2RX2002sr and

groug wan

trying

so centen tho

pablle

the Conewaist

1302000 -

Kale space

Partbor adviood at appozzed HAAC-Ie-2ad

BD 130 VIBE.

one or tuo other persons traveling vica them 10

a Dodge Mobile Mona.

One was 3 poung Anzions- looking wan

aboat 10 or 19 yemes of age

i who sored as an asher at the

Another uns & Spanish es Cabar loohing young saa

she lead

tho singins of patriotic songa

at the seetlag.

Announosnesto vers

aade

etasz

C3-DL-100B advised SA

BOXEENDAL on 5/25/6đ,

Che

including BRindush had

appeared at cho

Condity Hall, also know

as cit hall, 4100 Clarendon,

Cockroll N111, Teras, 06: 7130 Ply

5/85/64-

Agala MARGIC

oponed the nooting and intaosucod BRINGUILE as of the Cuban

Stadest Diroctorate, bondquartered is Mama,

Fioride.

54046

DooId: 32313191

Page 3

---

