# docid-32305134

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/16/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10287-10264

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 65-66203-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, WMFO

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/30/1965

2

VSL, ASSOC, DESCR, TRA, BKG, DEFECT, REL, RES, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

...

v9.1

DocId: 32305134

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Liarson

Nx. Whitsonans

BER- TASY FORGE

19420 87

4/8/s1c

MÓLEASE IN FULL

SAC, NTO (065-0180) I$

4/30/65

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIA

Director, FBI

(05-68533)(51

SECRET

UNSU13;

(SL

*He

Agent Krown as

ESPIONAGE - R

ALL INCORSATION CONTAINED

MEREIN IS UNCLA SIFIED

EXCEPT FINERE SHONA

OTMERWISE

Relizolot 4/20/0ö concerning

• detectors fron

U. S.

Azny intelligence units in fest

Cornay, Vladimir Walter

Slobods. and Joseph wunzasaczy

mo magle de considered ae

possible suspocts for

Uasub,

"or other anisova subjectolS

have

toen reported by eliter Anatolly Golltzyn or "Sammy."

Sloboda was born 2/22/27

Peckanten,

traine.

According to informtion furatshed tognt, Bond, by

• Intelligence

Dividiod of the U.S. Arry, Europe, Sloboda had vorked as an

interpreter for the MVD in Bast Germay and escaped

to West Gernany

10 1046•

In 2/48 ho emigratod fron Geruny to Great Britain,

returning to Germany in 7/52.

In 2/53 ho married ballian Satellio,

3 British subject, born 2/12/32 at Halitar,

Yorkshire,

and whose

addross at the timo was Number 10 Ovendin Terrace, Halifax,

Yorkshire.

Sloboda enlisted in the U. S.

Arny following

which ho emigrated to the U. S. under the Lodge Act na an Alten

Golistee In 21/53.

Ho mas honorably

"discharged

Axmy 8/3/58 at Fort George G. leade,

fron the U. G

mary land,

to reenlisted

3/4/53 at the same place.

Ho arrived in West Germany for assigment

to Headquarters:

Stoch M101tary

intelligence Group 11/6/58. He

becane a

U. B. citizen 8/14/58.

The Slobodas had three children.

The oldest, Bavid,

was

born in Great Britain in 1953 before Sloboda Docana on American

eitizen.

The second,

North Carolina, in 1956.

Victor Edwin; was born at fort Brogg,

in 2959 attor

The youngost, Elena,

was born in

Garnany

. Schoda had soon mturalized (HU)

Aruy rocords indicate Slohoda was an officer in Polish

antolligence prior to his defoction to the woes. Nu)

Enclosure

* New York

L.W: moc

DUFLICATE: VELLOW

SECR

CRET

(7)

SEE NOTE FORELIAISON PAGE TWO:

65-66204 (Siebad 5/5/95 pee

1165/94

Classified by_

170 MAY 101965

CLAUSED BY 566854m Declassify bn: SADR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK

ORIGINAL FEL

DocId: 32305134 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

DATE: 11-14-2017

USC 2107 Hotel.

Letter to

SAC,

DEO

28:

303

Agent Knowa

a5

35-68533 (57

"Zera

SECRET:

3/2/80

Blobode was assigned to the 510th M111 tary

Intelligence

Group Headquarters at Oberuraul, Fost Geraany

"Secret"

Cloarance.

the astholilitacy

Intelligence Group

was directly under the control of the Intelligence Division of the

V. 5. Aruy in Europe and had rosponsibilities for intelligence

operations from Vost Germy into East Germazy, Poland, and to

sone extent lussia..

In addition, it bad counterintelligence and

security jurisdiction for the U. S. Arny in the northern ball of

West Gornsty and Dorila.

it aloo operated the Aruy Interrogation

Center, commonly referred to as Camp King.

On 3/2/60 Slotoda drove in his personal car from

Oberursal to Cologue, lest Germany..

Leaving his car in Cologne,

hò flev by comercial airline to Bertia.

Apparently he had not

told his vite of his plans but later commmicated with her fron

Derlin transmitting the

sim of

60 marke to her.

Invostigation into the circunstances o8 Stobeda's

defection by the 513th lilitory Intelligence Group revealed that an

unauthorized telephone call was made from the day room of the subject's

unit da the 513th Wi11tary

Intelligence Greup a few days before

the subject departed.

This call was nado to a firo in the vicinity

of Cologne, two principal officers of which had been reported

have communist connections.:

It was not possible to determine

whether Stoboda made the call.

the afternoon in question, he

was in charge of the day roon.

Late in 1350 3100042 S

vite and three childen joinod

aim 2e the sovet baron.

Slobode's vito returned to Great

britain

for a period of time in 1962-63and Was interviewed by ul5 in

3/63%

8 copy of the results of

that

interviev, classified

"Secret," in attached for the information et tito.

Che indicated

she ras roturning shortly to the U8S8.J(s)

The Buread is naking inmiries through Linicon as to

the location of the completo Arry file on Sloboda.

Internatton regarding foceph Datisantos is being

handled separately.

NOTE FOR LIAISON:

WrO has requested Buroan determine where

the complete

Army file on Sloboda is located in order that it can be revieved.

SECRET

DocId: 32305134

Page 3

---

