# docid-32291821

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 05c 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10208-10097

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2042

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

T0:

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/16/1967

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, ACT, RES, CUERNAVACA, MX

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32291821 Page 1

302

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Aot of 1992 744 USt 2107 Note).

DATE:-11-14-2017

6/20/67

SDE REVERSE

XIDE FOR

ChASSIF ICATION

ACTION

COSTY PTA

IN DEF!

DALES

810|85

Airtel

REC 18

T77D

10)

SE

LIONEDY

TO :

Legat, Mexico City

From:

Director, FBI

9-104-48

8 EXT.

6383UR

ETA SON-FCIM II

1-2.4.2

ArE OF REVIEV

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

ARE EV

V Lier Int

2-78

Re your airtel 6/16/67. M

It is not considered desirable to attemptit

technical secret coverage of P. Q. box in Cuernavaca

outlined

in re airtel.

Mexico City should explore other

tvailable

possibilities for obtaining desired coverage

ANTH

HIVA

Sui

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Roome

Holmes -

Gandy

1

- Chicago (Enc.?2) (2 copies of Mexico City airtel 6/16/67)

1 - Foreign Liaison

Unit (Route through for review)

NOTE:

Legat, Mexico City, has been making efforts to develop

information

as to the presence and activities of Chicago

THIS

hoodlum Sam Giancana, who has previously visited Mexico.

Legat has developed

information as to the address of

Harriette Blake Cain; wife of Richard S. Cain, a known

associate of the subject in Chicagoland

has suggested that

discreet technical coverage of the

0. 097

be established through CIA, Mexico City e

Legat being advised that such efforts to establish

this coverage not desirable

and

that other possibilities of

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,

Cir teric

coverage should be explored

(U0)s)

JGL:tjm

(6)

Con togo to nails ins

iy special tire

30-427

MAILER S

JUN 2 1 1967

COMM - FEL

554317/17/90

RABY

5668510/60

DIC ASCEY CA

• 25Ж

CLASSIFUED PX12-54

5.85:

TOR CONTAIVED

STFIED

EFINITE

₴ 6192

DATE DECREA

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

5701

DocId: 32291821

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 744 05C

2107

Hotel.

DATE: *11-14-2017

ADRE

fies

on: 0

'Classi

Declassily

APFROPRIATE AGENC

OFFI

TING

AND FIELD

ADVISES

SI:TP

DATE

NEAL

MINED

LEE REVER

STOE

CLAS

AIRTEL

, SHONN

SEX ROVE

SIDES 203

CEASSXPIOATION

AGDIOW

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) SEC!

6:16/0

1038

CSJAC

FROM: N

"TinS'S:

EGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13) P PE: ON-POEM IT,

2.4.82

в v16 -

RE:

SAMUEL M.

AR

GIANCANA, aka

2442

EXDMPI FROM C

CATEGOEY

CLASSIFTED DECISTONS PIDATE OF DECy SSIFICARION

JET INITE

82OSSEN COUTE (DRO)

Dity airtel dated 6/9/67S

Information was received from the Mexican

Immigration

Service that HARRIETTE BLAKE CAIN,

the wife of RICHARD S. CAIN,

a known associate of the subject,

in her dealings with Mexican

Immigration turntahed her address as co her atiormerinte attorney

CASTILLO Z., Plaza de la Republica

32, Mexico City.

also represented

the subjected?

Immigration

additionaltaddress

thor

officials advised, however,

there was

telephone. ?61.75

Box 1066, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico,

This ?information was furnished to MEX 258, but he

advised he could not develop further information in

this regard

because such records areCconfidential Heand" Mexican Immigration

olficials conjectured that the Cuernavaca address was the residence

Mrs. CAIN as a singer

the pil eleven emerl

RAUL ASTOR, who had contracted

APPROPRE

AND FTAID

T.

AG.

SLIP/S

DATE

131,

(V)

- (2 - Chicago, 92-349)RC6 tael

2 - Mexico City

(1 - 100-2229, R. Cain)

RSC: gmh

(8) SECRET

CLASSILIED BE 2

EXEMEN FROMGOS,

DATE OF DECLASS!

by airse

CRUZONA LE

-AALOET

Ари вом зі т

DocId: 32291821

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Actr

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992

1Sc 2100 Hotel.

MEX 92-13

Source determined that P. O. Box 1066 was for a residence

in the Rancho Tetela Section of

Cuernavaca, located at some

distance from the DAWSON house

on 6/13/67, MEX 156 advised

he had determined that

P. 0. Box I066, Cuernavaca,

Is listed to RICHARD SCALZETTI, address

Calle de Nubes

2, Rancho Tetela,

Cuernavaca. It is noted that

this is CAIN's maternal surname

nined from the servants that the owner of the house is referred

source made pretext inquiry at this location and detail

to aS SALVADOR SCALLETTI. They indicated he was not in Mexico

Source noted that this is a luxury house, costing about

1, 000,000 pesos ($80,000 U.S.)

It is in an isolated location

and surrounded by, a high wall

Rancho Tetela is a sabdivision, and the realtor handling

property in that area is Mrs. EDITH LITTLE STEWART,

an American

who resides at Casa Amarilla in Rancho Tetela

It is noted that Mexico City previously had àn investi-

gation concerning ALBERT M. ANDREAS (Bufile 164-192). ANDREASwas

a fugitive in a Crime Aboard Aircraft - Assault matter, having

been Indicted at Athens, Georgia, on 2/1/65 in regard to an assault

on a stewardess while aboard a Northwest Orient Airlines flight

from Miami to Chicago on 10/28/640(ü)er

ANDREAS was described as white male, age Ji, borr

4/16/07, Sterling, Illinois, height 5' 5"

complexion dark, hair thin and graying with receding hairline,

ent onto once to the Board, North American

Reportedly the assault

occurred when the stewardess

requested payment for a drink and was punched in the stomach area,

A Miami source indicated

'ANDREAS was at P. 0. Box 703,

Nubes 2,

Rancho Tetela, Cuernavaca.

2

SECRED

He determined that P.O.

BoX, 705

808-1099

DocId: 32291821 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711. USE

DATE: *11<14-2017

EtH Hotel.

MEX 92-73

SECRET

was in the name of EUGENIA ALVAREZ DE GARCIA.

Also listed

to receive mail at this box was EBERST D. RASSING, address

Atlacomuleo 309.

This was determined to be a non-existent

address

ANDREAS

fined $500(1)

subsequently surrendered himself and was

ANDREAS also figured in a Special Inquiry matter from

Chicago entitled "OSBORN ANDREAS" (Bucab 5/26/65), his brother.

Chicago is undoubtedly cognizant of the ANDREAS mattemand may

disposal of this house.

excellent possibility that Legat, Mexico City, can secure

technical secret coverage of the P. O. box in

Cuernavaca through

CIA, Mexico City «This could be an extremely valuable source

of information in

this matter and might be prejudiced by any

direct investlation oozcerning this residencent

UACB, Mexico City will explore possibilities of

obtaining such coverage. (4)(4)

Mexico City will also explore other possibilities in,

obtaining discreet coverage of the residence in Cuernavaca.(o/u

SECRET

DocId: 32291821

Page 5

---

