# docid-32335795

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10186

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1280-178

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel.

Caseft: NIT 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KUYKENDALL

TO: DL

TITLE:

DATE: 01/11/1965

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

IN 53074 DocId: 32335795

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (170-1A-4)

2/11/65

SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALE,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS, UNCLASSIFIED

CS D1-103-B

DATE 2/15/2 BY 50887/100

CS D1-10S-R on 12/8/64 orally advised SA'E W. JAMES WOOD

and EDWIN D. KUYKEEDALE that JUSTIN D. DENNIS, 2653 South Cockrell

2126802 22/16

B111 Road, Dallas, Texao, uho several yearo ago was a membarof sone

Klan-type organizations in Dallas, as of that date Indicated to an

indiviaual that he plannad to correspond with the American 1241

Soured understood DENIs

25%, ondering back to Africa boat tickots that this organization had

advertised in handbills.

ES D1-103-R on 1/2/65 orally advised SA KUVRENDALI, thEt

JUSTIN B. DENNIS, 2653 Cockrell lM1] Road, Dallas on 12/23/64 by

firat claco mail roceived a large envelope fron 2.0. Box 5505,

Arlington, Virginta, postmarked 12/20/64. It contained items as

(2) Mimeographed leaflet heeded American Naas Party,

928 1. Randolph Street,

Allogton, virginsa, JA4-5831" and Blened

by MATT KOEHL, Major Matlonal Secretay •

Inis Icaflet was addresscd

"Follow unite

American?"

Anong other things 1t invitod all patriotic

Americans to come to the lational Headquarters of that organization

stating thet room,

board, and hard work can be provided for ex-

It stadca persons uno cannou leave thesi

coptionally dedicated men 'ilkc to join tho all out fight "for the

home and fanily but would

survival of our face and Nation" can ot1ll participato as regular

members.

to qualify one must be at least eighteen years old, white,

an Anerican citizen, loyal, to the u.S. and its consultution,

"dedicated to the White face and Western Culture®

It stated the

application fee 18 $20 which can be paid in installments, monthly

dues d $5 for employed poreone and $2.50 for atunts and uceployed

parsons.

It stated an application form would bo nailed upon receipt

of application foo.

It stated "The Stortroover" along with regular

party literature io free to members.

5 - Dallas

SERACHED

(1 - 170-1A-4)

1

-

SERIALIDER

1

157-50 (Amarican Nazi Party)

205-569 (NSRD)

105-1844 1S0n8 of Mberty

- 105-1280 (Ilinuteren

1 - Richmond (3u), (American Nazi Parby, 101) (154-93)

• Birmingia (FM) (lational states Richts Parcy,

R51) (105-477)

(Sons of Liberty, Ril)

(105-9570)

= New are (sons of Liberty, PiO. Bos 315, TILIsOn, NiGH YOrli,

1 - Phoenix (1) (Sons of Liberty, RA)

EDR/gcE. (10)

ges

1005412805778

53074

DocId: 32335795 Paqe 2

---

## Page 3

DI 170-11-4

(2)

Small cerd announcing 255 discount to ai1 ANt

meriners oo

AMe 1tens offored for sale.

(3)

leaflet entluled "progran of the world Union of

Natlonal Scolalists"

(4) Lostict consistine of order fore for "Katenanng

Reoordes

Box

5505,

Arlington, Virginia".

(5). One copy of 9/15/63 losue of "the Rockwell Raport",

and "The Rockwell

(6) icatict entitlod "The Big Ile - Uno Told Ita".

(7) Copy of September-October, 1964 "The Stormtrooper"

magazine.

Source further advised on 1/2/65 that JUSIIN B. DENNIS

identified above, has periodically reccivad litcrature

from the

Nationni Stoten Righta Party, P.Q. Box 763, Eiringham, Alabana.

source stated venus recently had in his poddession aicopy oi

, publication of HSRP.

He also pousessed a copy of & NShE membersip application form

and leaflet solloiting nenberships. It stateo old membors could

rency thois nembership or new menbers could obtain nembership cy

paying the annual. $5 fee.

Source indicatod that DENMIS in considering submitting

requess for membership in the Americon lord Party and the NSRP.

scurce made available the keros copy of above cosculbed icar-

let received by DäNtS txon the ANP which reflected qualifications for

by the Dallas Office.

CB D1-103-8 on 1/5/65 craily advised SA KUYRENDALL that

J. L. DraPIs, ballas,

perat,

identified above, on about 1/4/65

received oy nail

sonic advertising naterial fron sons of Liborty,

P.O. Box 315 Salloon, New York.

Nie literature dealt with booke

of various types for sole.

source advised he would ottempt te male

HH

53074

DocId: 32335795

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 170-1A-41

availabile that covertising literature in the near future

for examination.

source staved Dennis has not previoualy

reccived any information fron sons of Liberty and knous

noching about such an organication.

Source said DENNIS speculates.

that thic material may have come to him as a resuit of his recent

correspondence with the American Mazi Farby, which correspordence

13 described above.

Bounce had no additional infornation.

nichoond Office is furnished an information copy because:

It is office of origin concorning the ANP. Birminghen Office 15

Turniohod an infornation copy because it is office of origin

concerning NSRP.

mant,

New York, and Phoenix are furnished copies

for inforuation since they have had pricr Infornation concerning

SouD of Liberty.

If any of the above information is utilized in any

communicatson for dissemination, sane should be paraphrased to

proteut identity of source.

3

d0lsd-(012

HH 53074

DocId: 32335795

Page 4

---

