# docid-32989590

## Page 1

File #:

162-116395

Serial Scope:

1560- EBE

55170

DocId: 32989590°

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ITE OF

THE CITY OF

SAN DIEGO

CITY ADMINISTRATION BUILDING • 202 C STREET • SAN DIEGO, CALIE. 92101

OFFICE OF THE

CITY CLERK

236-6420

The Honorable Frank Church

United States Senate

245 Russell Senate Office Building

Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Senator Church:

The City Council has directed that I forward to you the

enclosed Resolution No. 215233 adopted by the San Diego

City Council on January 29, 1976.

Your attention is

directed to the first "Be

It Resolved" clause which

requests that you and the United States Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence hold hearings. in San Diego,

California, regarding the possible violation of the

civil rights of any citizen as related to the intelligence

operation of the San Diego Police Department.

Respectfully,

Alland Tilen

Edward Nielsen

City Clerk of The City of San Diego, California

EN/ra

Enclosure

HH 55170

DocId: 32989590 Page 2

---

## Page 3

181-10265

:70

DocId:32989590

Page

---

## Page 4

R 76-1587

RESOLUTION NO.

215233

JAN 2.9 1976

WHEREAS, the San Diego City Council has been made aware

through public media, and other sources, of direct

involve-

ment with Federal agencies of local persons and groups

currently being investigated by the United States Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence;

and'

WHEREAS revelations by the media and the Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence include the use of City personnel .

as paid informants encouraged to actively engage in illegal

activities resulting in the violation of the civil rights of

several citizens; and

WHEREAS, such employment of City personnel may be in.

violation of existing civil service rules regulating outside

employment by City personnel; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest for the City to

ensure the privacy of its

citizens and to prevent against

such abuses as has been reported to the Council; NOW,

THEREFORE,

BE IT RESOLVED, by the council of the City of San

Diego, as follows:

That this Council requests that the United States

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and its chairman,

Senator Frank Church, hold hearings in San Diego and that

HH 55170 DocId:32989590

Page 4

---

## Page 5

181-10265

170

DocId: 32989590

Page 5

---

## Page 6

the Committee share its information with the Council of The .

City

of san Diego.

• BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, in accordance with paragraph

(b) of Section 22 of the Charter, for the purpose of inquiry,

the City Council, acting

as the Committee of the Whole,

shall meet to inquire about intelligence operations by City

employees with a view to adopting policies or procedures or

both such policies and procedures to deal with future City

employee participation in such intelligence operations.

Policies or procedures shall be adopted to deal with such

intelligence operations by no later than June 30, 1976.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Committee of the

Whole

shall meet the fourth Thursday of each month, commencing

February 26, 1976, at- 2:00 P.M., to conduct inquiries into

the intelligence operations of the San Diego Police Depart-

ment, including but not limited to, its use and recruitment

of informants insofar as such use or recruitment might

violate the civil rights of any citizen; the maintenance of

intelligence information which might violate the civil

rights of any citizen; the practices of the Department

regarding sharing of intelligence information, which might

violate the civil rights of any citizen, with other law

enforcement agencies; and the scope and nature of knowledge

or involvement by personnel of The City of San Diego, either

auring working hours or as a means of second employment, .

-2-

HH 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 6

---

## Page 7

with the Federal Bureau of Investigation's practices of

infiltrating organizations, use of informants, or violations

of citizen's civil

rights for the period beginning in 1967

to present.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Manager and City

Attorney are hereby directed to provide

whatever assistance

and personnel necessary to conduct such inquiry and

that said Committee shall establish whatever rules and

regulations it deems necessary to conduct such inquiry

and that said Committee shall establish whatever rules

and regulations it deems necessary for such inquiry.

APPROVED AS TO FORM ONLY: JOHN W. WITT, City Attorney

Shu l Wit

Witt

JWW:as

2-11-76

047

NH 55170 DocId: 32989590

Page 7

---

## Page 8

on

YEAS:

Passed and adopted by the Council of The City of San Diego

January 29, 1976

by the following vote:

Johnson, O'Connor, Williams, Morrow, Gade, Haro.

NAYS:

Hubbard, Ellis.

ABSENT :

Wilson.

AUTHENTICATED BY:

PETE WILSON

Mayor. of The City.

of San Diego, California.

EDWARD NIELSEN,

City Clerk of The City of San Diego, California.

(SEAL)

By

KATHLEEN MARTINEZ

Deputy.

I. HEREBY CERTIFY that the above and foregoing is a full,

true and correct copy of RESOLUTION No.

215233

passed and adopted by the Council of The City of San Diego,

• California, on

January 29, 1976

(SEAL)

EDWARD NIELSEN,

City Clerk of The City of San Diego, California.

BY

Kacklen Martine

Deputy.

(Rev. 12/71)

Im

HH 55170 DocId:32989590

Page 8

---

## Page 9

-----

181-10265

HIT

55170

DocId: 32989590

Page

9

---

## Page 10

$1457

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

UNITED STATES GONE IMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, IDI (100-148006)

DATE:

4/10/69

SAC, SAN DIEGO (100-12102) (P)

02323033

COUNTERINTELLIGEYCE PROGR.1MI

BLACE: AATIONALISY • HATE GROUDS

RACIAL INTELLIGINCE

(BLACK PANTIER PARTY)

Re Son Diego airtel to the Bureau 3/29/69, Bureau

Lecter to San Diogo 3/27,69, Los Angeles letter to the Bureau

4/2/69, and Buronu Letters to San Diego 4/4/69 and 4/7/59.

J..

OPERATIONS UNDER CONSIDERATION

Information has been reccived from

that

KITNY, DONMON

Euns."

ne to desend accapes drude aged bandry

are "always armed wich hand

this information and immediaicly upon verification

the infornation

Pill be furnishod to the San Diego Police Department in order

to

effect the arrests of both DEMON and WALLACE.

Consideration is being given toward having

continue pressuring the Oakland and Los angelos

Unlus us ie islack panther Party (BPP) to remove both WAILACE

and DiNOT aS San Diego leaders.

Due to the apparent extime sensitivity

demonstrated by various US members toward being called "pork chops"

and

1.Io

"pork chop niggers", consideration is being given toward

drawing up cartoons to pursue this sensitivity.

OPERATIONS BEING EFFECTED

Four Bureau-approved cartoons have to date been

milod to various individuals in San Diego and other lield

divisions.

Tangible results thus far observed appear in the

following section of this letter.

Four additional Bureau-approved cartoons will be,

mailed on a weckly basis as per-Bureau instructions.

83₴

- Bureau (REGISTERED,

• San DIerO

256 100013.

2047

• 1P2. 3. 4. 1359

RUB: bef.

(4)

Prompt fon Cos, Caro

2

11D11°

21-

---

## Page 11

181-10265

HH 55170

DooId: 32989590

Paue

11

---

## Page 12

SD 100-14192

destron

Information has been furnished to the San Diego

Police Department Vice Detail concerning the Shalinar

Pontaunnet.

the information concerns the fact that the

restaurant,

oprated by mir ray. lC Mily, and his wife MoRy

NiC NEt"s is serving hard liquor after 2:00 AM in spite of the fact

that the rosinurant possesses only

a beer license.

The cost of

the

drinks varies berween 5.50 and

$.75 per shot and is neasured

out in a clear salt shaker.

Information has aiso been furnished

co the police upartent that do Nely also dispenses some blue,

cod, and white pills which he sells to patrons aftor 2.00 1% and

these pills are kopt in a toothpick container under the counter.

Marijuana is also reportediy available at this restaurant and is

located in several locations

throughout the establishment.

The liquor is kept in & small cabinet space above the barbecue

pii and oven arca.

Licutenant KENNY O'BRIPN Of the San Diego Police

Depariment Vice

Detail dvised

that his Detail will place the

lestnurant under surveillance and in the event any activity

15 escorved wornon me roscarcani ciler &:û0 Ai, i raii viii

ha eftociod and arrests made.

Information has been confidentially furnished to

the Intelligence Unit of the San Diego Police Department

concorning the fact that the BPP has rented and is now

meeting in the

phodesian Club, 2907 Tunerial

Avenue, San Diego,

Califomia.

At this

time, Detective RUD.

B".NLIT stated that

Club is well known

to the San Diego Police Depariment

and, 'if it is being so utilized, is probably in violation of

Health and Saiety Code.

That department will therefore revien

their files concerning the prodesian Clus, to deternine if the

structure and operation thereof is in fact violating the Health

and safity Code.

This proposed activity is being undertaken

by the San Diego Police Department with no suggestion that such

action be taken on the part of the FBI.

IIi.

TANGIBLE RESULTS

On 3/28/69,

...

*Jeft San Diego enrouro to Oaklanu.

ihe

purpose of the trip was to have WALTER WALLACE comnletely

ousted from

the BPp in san Dieco.

: i had reccived in une nail.

ine purpose di taking the

10 2c

HH 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 12

---

## Page 13

""""

SD 100-11192

1147)

cartoons with him was to show the Oakland contingent the

type oi thing that WATER WAllaCE is pormitting io continue

in the San Diego arca without any retaliation or recourse.

This comontaiion resulted in extreme agitation on the part

of the oakland unit bur thus iar no direct action has been

taken against the san Diego Ranch.

As a result of the Burcau-authorized telephona

call to coks Tate, he became very nervous, sold his shotgun,

and movou his other guns to the

;...

residence of SYLVESTER BELL.

The soarch by the BPP for police informers

continucs and the party in general continues to be extremely

paranoid.

In attenpting to purge. the party of informants,

the BIP

has ousted DAVID BUIIARD, LARRY BAKER, aNd JORN HARVEY,

The

total and complete memorship of the party now consists oì

only 13 inbors, some of whom are considoring dropping out

because of the heat brought upon them by the various police

ägincico and auspinion do iu miu

is iposaling as ai liêuamini

for the various agencies.

to the numerous Bureau-approved aciivities

to instill

the bebef that WALTER WALLACE is himself a police

infosant,

widespread suspicion

now exists that WALTER. VALLACE

à police ogent.

Four individuals have gone

Ookland to present evidence that WALlACE is an informant and this

has resulted in a

great deal of unrese and consternation within

the party.

BETTY HORNE also

believes that WAITER WALLACE iS

an informant and is rusponsible for the recent miest of her

husband. She is spreading this information throughout the

party and is herself leaving the party because of it.

A one hour television tape was scheduled for taping

on 4/1/69 at a local television station by members of the BPP

Leadership.

Due to the widespicad dissension and suspicion

within the party, however, only one individual,.

JOHN HARVEY,

appeared for the

taping.

As a result the scheduled television

taping was called off.

On 3/27/69, there was a meeting between the BPP

and US organization.

The US members vent

to a BPP meeting

and asked

a lot of questions about the Red Book and the party

in general. TALLACE explained these things to them and then concluce

by stating that the BPP in San Diego would not hold

a grudge

(200T

=3.

NW 55170 DooId: 32989590

Page 13

---

## Page 14

"1?

SD 100-14132

!::

• :

against the US menbers for the killing of the panthers in

Los Angeles.

Hic statod that he would leave any retaliation

for this activity to the black community and let the black

community take care of the individuals responsible.

On 4/2/69, there was a friendly confrontation between

Us and the bP! with no weapons boing exhibited by either side.

Us membors met with BPP members and tried to talk out their

differcnces.

On 4/4/69, there was a rally in Southcrest Park

in Southeast San Diego.

During this rally US members

confronted Bur members and the BPP members "ran the US members

off."

This reportedly is a result of the receipt of cartoons

BPE menbers berating them and causing ill feelings toward

the US membeis,

As a rosult of the above and on the same dato, US

membero brora ani0 & Bry volition caucational montine.

Thev

stried at this time that they were looking for WALTER

WALLACI

when

he was not present,

"roughed un" VALYA, GREPN, HALLACE'S.

girlfricnd.

There was a big blovup over this activity ard

the US members exprossed violent opposition toward being called

"por): chops" end

"pork chop nigger's" by the Bpy and spocifically

by the BPy newspaper.

The BPD mombers in turn strongly objected

being made fun of by cartoons being distribuied by the US

organization.

¡has advised on several occasions that the

cartoons are "really shaking up" the BPP. They have made the

BPP feel that US is getting ready to move and this was the

cause of the confiontation at Southcrest Park on 1/4/69.

IV.

DEYELOPIENTS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INTEREST

Due to the fact that the US menbers violently

objected to being called "pork chops", a change in the order 01

the mailing of the cartoons was made in San Diego. One'of the

recently. Bureau approved cartoons depicting Roryork Chop Karenea"

LANGA hOlding a

Black Panther off with his hand with the title

vas distributed on 1/7/69, due to the excellent timely reicase

of this

particular cartoon.

HH 55170 DocId:32989590Paye 14

---

## Page 15

181-10265-

*.

HH 55170

DocId: 32989590

Page 15

---

## Page 16

4p2 327

leN: +0 11100-5-22-01)

19-37792

-12!

FBI

•***: *

::

8,:1..

Date: 4/30/G9

•alr.

Transmit the following in

rivini

'Jas

Via

ATH2D1

(type in plaintert or code)

AJNAIL • REGISTORIT

(Priority)

into Her:n

incine:

I0:

NTICIS:

DINCCION, RBI (200-110006)

SAC, SAN DIEGO (100-12102) (P)

COORTIA: TITELOGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK MIKCALIST * HEFE GROUPS

INCIAN TLELGIGEICE

For the informatich of the Buronu, Information has

boon seceired 1ac

contadontini sources faniliar vitl Black

Pantics pasty (GPP)

and rolaïed activitios concerning a mlanned

0185910979 S50

malabortion in

ine Angeles remanning i

7:n0 Am;

5/1/00.

This inicortion roflecte that some of the BOP members

plan on leavior che ore oftico in San Diogo at approxinaioly

1:00 L, 5/1/69, bound for Los Angoles. Uson arrival in

LOS Ansclos

choy pian on Joining the hay Day Raily to "free

Nucy W41402."

This information has been dissenimaico to the

Sar: Dieso Polico Lopacicons on a confidontial basis.

The

police dopnatoont has formulated pians to conduct a discreet

survelllance until the caravan is toned. Innediatoly upon

formatien and novotent of the caravan, it will be closely

surveilled and arrosts wall be effecied provided an opportunity

arises prior to thoir loaving the San Diego city linits.

In the

event no opportunity lor an arrest occurs prior to lenving

San Disco ciüy Linites the inforction vill bo radioed ahead

the caravan to the California Highbay Fatrol and the Los Angelos

POlico Departmont

2ia Bureau (A11) (REGISTERED)

• REC 29

2 • San Diego

an on remier. = 8191

!!.:

RIB: bef

(4)

ICC 811922

5X-203

5 1147 6 1969

V.

sian in

10.509159031

Approver:

WW 55170 Docid:32989590 Page 16..

Sent -

Per

---

## Page 17

181-10265

HH 55{70 DocId: 32989590

Page 17

---

## Page 18

strong!

ж: 3

CITIAL DEMON ROD 19

" 19-136

ATHENETI

UNITED STATES GOVWNENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FDI (100-118006)

DATE:

5/5/69

SAC, SAN DIEGO (100-11192) (P)

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAK

BLACK NATIONALIST * HATE GROUPS

RACIAL INTEILIGENCE

Re San Diogo Lottor to the Bureau 4/10/69,

Los Angeles Iciter to the Bureau 4/17/69, San Francisco

to the Bureau 4/21/09, Bureau lettei to San Francisco

4/23/69, and San Diego airtel

to the Bureau 4/30/59.

OPERATIONS WIDER CONS EDERATION

At the prosent iine only nine active hard core

the Binch Panther Party (BIP) in San Diego.

Catcally 933 no

sha sotivicios of these nine individuals

are being follored closely in an effort to deterine

additiones counterintolliconee action toward these members.

At the prosent tine the following activitics are being given

consideration and appropriate requests vill be forarded to

the Burcau:

Information has bich received that WALTER

WALLACE

nas boon mistreating the child ot

VELA GREEN, OVEN

to the

point of administering beatings to

child.

Exfores are

¡presently being made to Lüther sufiicient evidenco concerning

this activity to make the information available to local

vellare agencies without jeopardizing the security of any

* 2.3

The pront totor of the Hanging Tree Gun Shop in

San Diego has advisee

that ZEKD JAi purchnsed one case of

•00 buctshot anounting to 025 rounde, fron a local gun

dealer in San Diego. Information has also been received that

TATE is in possession of a saved-oil shotgun.

Consideration

Is being given toward contacting the local office of the

State Attorney Goneral in order to determine in that agency

can obtain a search varrant on information furnished

from a

90k

• Bureau (All) (REGISTERED)

• San Diego

REC-49

RIB: bef

(4)

• 85 MAY 9 1363

Play depar

₩ 55170 DocId:32969590 Page 11

ELS!

---

## Page 19

181-102165

WH 55170 DocId: 32989590

Page 19

---

## Page 20

SD 100-14192

is .

confidential source without naming that scurce.

In the

event they ice aule

to do so, sullicient information vill

be siven to that dopartment in order to enable then to obtain

a sonich wront in in eidort to seize the shotgun and

amunition in the possession of TATE.

. . ..

Information has also been received that LARRY BAKTI.

1s soveral months in arroars in his car payments.

will be submitted to the Bureau under soparate communication

to discominato information to a (iC fiold officinl to effect

the ropossession of BAIER's vehicle.

II.

OPERATIONS BEING ECFECTED

The Bureau-approved cartoons continue to be mailed

on approsinately LO-day intervals.

Tangible results thus

tar observed appear in the following section of this letter.

Information concerning the Shalimr Restaurant has

been confidontinly surnichod to the Vico Dotail of the

Sai DIOCO POLiCO Department.

That detail has

established

'urcovor colored policehen in the restaurant in an

ariun to obinin sufficient evidence io ciicot a raid

To date, these officers have mace inroads but have only

book able to observe the selling of "near beer", which is

not a violation of local raw.

It is felt that it vii take

several weeks beiore these officers are sufficiently accepted

by the patrons of the restaurani to the point of being

served hard Iiquor, offered

the sale of the available pills,

and invitod

to participate in the ganbling activitles. Once

this is achievod, appropriate arrests will be macie.

III.

MUCIBLE RESULTS

Concerning the distribution of the Bureau-approved

cartoons, the San Francisco Division has reported that the

San Diogo caricatures which have arrived

at various locations

have surprised and angered the BPy recipients.

Recipients

do not know the

source and have blamed flist the US organization

In Los Angeles. However,

they are not certain of this and

also think it may be

the

CIA ОГ FBI

who are responsible.

In any case, according to

mine's the program is causing

comment, among the BPP members.

RIG

= 2 -

HH 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SD 100-11192

-

i has advised concerning the cartoons

in San Diego inic cyone is shook up and afraid because of

receiving

the cartoons. "

has also advised that the BPP in

San Diego li in i sin of chaos at the prosent time. SYLVESTER

BEL, continues his offorts to obtain the Captain's job. He has

gone

10 Los Angolos on several occusions and has indicated

to the BPP Officials in LoS Angeles and Oakland that the BPP

nonbors in San Diego are unhappy with WALlACh.

Oakland aud Los Angeles Branches of the BPr feel extremely

disgusted with

the San Diego group.

WATTER WATLACE, in retaliation of verbal actacks

has accused TATE ot boing a "pig."

As a result,

WAinCs and To are si cach othoris throat on

almost a daily

SYLVESTE! BELL, as a result of the Bureauapproved

anonymous telephone call

to him, has joined forces with

merrybaros against KetTEl

WALINCE.

Both of

ton accently sent written complaints

to the Los

Angeles

headquarters of the be? against WALlACe.

FERNAN SAVAGE has beaten up CUARTES NC CLOUD

in the BPP offion in San Diego due to the jaci that he

suspected lC CrOUD of being a police informant.

Concerning the surveillance which was conducted by

the San Diego Polico Department as a result of information

furnished to them on 4/30/69, contained in San Diego airtel

to the Bureau 4/30/69, the following results were observed:

The caravan, consisting of 16 individuals, left the

Bpp office promptly at 7:00 All, and no opportunity existed

to effect any. arrests concerning these individuals.

To date,

no information has been reccived from either the Highway Patrol

or the los Angeles Police Department which indicated that

elthor of these doparimonts effected any arrests.

REC

CH:

NN 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SD 100-11192

• 1

IV.

DEVELOP IT'S OF COUNTER ILTELLIGINCE INTEREST

By airial cater 4130/09, Le San Francisce Offico

has reportod

that

advised that thEy

DOUNCE Of

the

BPP in San Diego ma: tirobaly not actendary any oi

the

Lectures no had promised to attend.

An individual wio vas not

identitics vas roporiins to headquariors about DaNiON and

said that Dirt had told hin that he was not putting up with

a a chat

"a lot of crap" and was quitting the Bpy.

not that any

advised Bip Hadquartors that they should count basey out

of the party.

As indicated on the first page of this letter, the

total hard core active nenbers of the BPP in San Diego has

now drindled to a total of oniy nine individuals.

There is

continual chaos, balcontentment, ind fighting within the

p. nty on almost

i daily basis.

As & result,

the party

..t.

to be extronoly incflectual

inosent time.

It has Leen roported that boch: iund and

Angelas

the Bop in san Dieso is being operated.

nya!

4.

774

en As as

NH 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 22

---

## Page 23

181-10265

HH 55170 DocId: 32989590

Page

23

---

## Page 24

70

rogeries 80009900383

MAY 116: 16"

Ace 4.119

• ENTED STATES GOLDENENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, EDI (100•448006)

SAC, SAN DIESO (100-14192) (P)

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BIOCK LATIONIST & INTS GROUPS

RAC282 AN BIGENOS

DATE:

6/5/69

Ne Ens DIego lotter to the Bureau 5/5/2 lotter

San Diego airtel to ibe bureau 5/6/69, Los Angeles

to the Lureau 5/11/09. Bureal Serter te San Diego 5/20/69,

Dan licso aircel to the Burcan 5/27/69, and Bureau lotter

to Gan: udozo 6/23/09.

to obinin additionai

inorcation concorning

MORE GEES

sinautor crboseiccont of tunds iron the Pubilo Sobook lati

hi the prosent time i is selt that any type of an

scioc. on this activity as it relatcate VAlice night

compicitro the recurity oi a confidentiai

incormont.

and unen ando.mczon in this regard is obtained which could

he utilizod and at the sono tine in no may joogardike an

apprcariate counterintelligence roquest vill

he cubaittso.

RHIEVY DENLON, On 5/22/69, mas observed by several

individuals fondling

i shite girl on the San Biego State College

campus during a ralize

in appropriate letter is boing prepared

and will be sent to the Burcau for approral protosting this

sriuation

boadcuarters.

The Letter will indicate

thet DIll continues his asaociation with white giris even

thougi he hus been spocifically instructod to cease all oi

this typo of activity.

2

• Bureau (ALD (REGISTEZED)

• Sai DisgO

(4)

REC 4

1:: -11

nor 810

P. JUN D 190J,

1012

2C3021

10003

Hw 55170 Docid a2989590 • Page 24

---

## Page 25

181-10265

..1.

55170

DocId: 32989590

Page 25

---

## Page 26

SD 100-14192

e220nt)

:

15949

Another cartoon is currently being prepared and

will be submitted for Bureau evaluation upon its complotion.

At the present time one additional request is

arraiting Bureau evaluation concerning a cartoon which

appeared in a local student newspaper.

II'.

OPERATIONS BEING EFFECTED

The Bureau-approved cartoons continue to be

mailed on approximately ter-day intervals.

Information concerning child beating by YALTER

PALLACE was furnished by anonymous letter on commercially

purchased stationery nailed from the Logan Heights ghetto

area.

The letter was sent to the San Diego Police Department,

Juvenile Bureau, which handles mistreatment of minor children

cases. No tangible results have been ooserved concerning this

lotter aside from the fact that information was received from

the Intelligence Unit of

the san Diego fOlice Neparthent

indicating that a child beating complaint had been received

agüinct VALTER VALLACE.

III.

TANGIBLE RESULTS

On 5/16/69, members of the San Diego Police

Department, Vice Squad, raided the Shallmar Restaurant to that

a result of the Bureau approved information"furnished

detail. Two arrests were effected and a quantity of illegal

whiskey was seized. The important factor in this regard

appears to be that

members of the BPP no longer fael secure

in meeting in this location late at night.

As a result

they have ceased to patronize the establishment.

The current whereabouts of the vehicle belonging

to BPP member LARRY BAKER was furnished to

My General h

LOrDOrATIOn

(GMAC),

BAKER's vehiclei.

was located and repossessed by. GuAC, Absolutely no reierence

to the FBl as the source of tho iniormation as to the location

of the vehicle was made.

N7 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 26

---

## Page 27

...

S)) 100-74192

1818222

IV.

DEVELOZZEITES OZ COUNTERITTELLIGEICE INTEREST

Ininos currently remin in a stric of complete

chaos within the lung of tae bip.

this

Situation has been

corpounded is

•tho racent nurdor of 32P Bonber ACiM.SAVAGE on

5/23/03.

123 1hidon is icizoved to have iscen committed by

JORRUTY

"CaNt"s a acmber os the us organization.

On the day of the mucuci, inforacion vas picked

up by FBI intomants thet one "MUSU%I" vas CeSpOuSiDe iOr

into intomation was unediately disconinetca

san Diego Polico Depurerent along with

the idontitios

tlas

three known

IS ncmbers wie utilice the

Swahili nome of

SIDORY.

tho

In a0d1:10n,

San Diero Police Departnent was furnished

surornation that of the three individuals, monts could most

lopicaliy bo considerod as the individual rcsponsible or an

act oi

this nature due to his past history. As a resuit,

Sau Diogo inlies Dopartaont currently has an outstanding

warrant

charging 10.t with the nuides of

SAVAGE,

In addition, the

sar brore triir

parutly abtossie? laiD marsas arainst

Robins due to the inet it is bolievod he has tled frou the State

01 Califcinio.

On 5/23/69, information was also received from FBI

informant that a group of BPP nemoers vere going to dopart from

tos Angoles on route to San Diego to "invoctigate" the killing

wis inforation vas imediatoly turniched to the

• Unit of che San Dipgo Police Doperincui,

'Thic

proved

to be reliuble in view of the lact that

api:

-nicy Six BPP menbers did arrive in Sun Diego on

5/25/69.

At the present time the confllct between the BPP

and the us organization apocars to be incrensing.

There are

reporied clashes between tie

tho groups on 2 frequent basis

ranging tron mere

harcosment up to and

including beatings of

variouc individuaio.

111 of these activities are being

closely followed

for any potontiai counterintelligence activity.

- 3

TIN 55170 DocId: 32989590

Page 27

---

## Page 28

181-10265

55170

DooId: 32989590

Page 28

---

## Page 29

!

1O052

462D

..:, San Diego (100-74292)

6/23/69

pretor, thE (50-46026) -/0/82-Ir. J. A. Manson

COL: RINTELLIC.OB 220324421

MCL CRICICь

DiCK Partie Pile

"Deny

licurairtel 6/13/69.

The suggestion sot forth in refrrenced airtel

rust he tural cow. the preparation end subsequent

delivery of "not" amition is cangerous insofar as the

produci could easily find its ray into the posseesicn

of en innocrit

Harcon.

Cace this munition is dropped

in front of block Panther Perty try teachuarters tere

is no more control by baronu igents.

JA: ra

(1)

NOTL:

5315499

San Diego has requested permission to overload:

This onmunition rould be placed

in bags and anonymously abandoned in front of both the BPP

headquarters and us headquarters in San Diego. San Diego

believes that the camition would be found inmediately by

a member of one of the groups and subsequently utilized in

firearms practice or asscssination attonots.

We are turning

the sussestion doin as the results cannot be assured and a

loss of control would take place as soon as the ammunition

is abandone,! Innocent children could picis up the bags and

subsequenty

injured.

JUil 28 1965

CONM-FBI

WH 55170 MaCTA32989590 Pade 29

11*7

---

## Page 30

18110265-

HH 55170

Doc1d: 32989590

Paue

30

---

## Page 31

• *.

rital-tiers: 5492-606)

F B 1

Date:

6/13/69

Tronsmit the following in

Vic

AIRECT.

(ope in plointeat ut code)

ALR WAIL - REGISTERED

(Priorily)

TO:

DIRECTOR, EX (100-118006)

FROM:

SACS SAN DISGO (100-14192) (P)

COUNTERITOL IGONCE PROCESSI

BLACK iTIONALIST • HASE GROUPS

MACIAL TNTELLIGTACE

BLACK PANINEN PARTY (SPP)

vor the thromation or the Bureau, rumore heve beer

received fion tine to tino that the US orcmintion is holding

Piron: nractice sessioic nil colorts to verify

this infornation through informants have, thus tar, mes win

nogatire resulio.

hellabic infornation has been cocoived, however,

bers of the

Us orcanization have purchased ammunition

the local Bus anips.

On 5/5/69, an individui

GECHOE ATONY ARASTRONG purchased 150 rounds

300 ruinds of

"st special cominition at & local gun shop.

MIMSTACG VaS

tentatively identified as the individunt who was

respor ble for the shooting of BPp DenDer ROALd Guit FRecKAN

in Los Angoles on or about 3/11/69.

In vior. of the above intoration and. the possibility

that members or the is organication are in fact holding fireams

practicos, Bireal permission is requested concerning the

following

aCEIVLEY:

SEC 82

a Bureau (AM) (REGISTERED)

2 = San Diego

1048

RLB: bei

(4)

233.

3 JUN 20r1939

195 +

Approved:

HH 55170

DocId: 32989590 - Page 31

E/:!

Sent

Per

---

## Page 32

181-10265

HH 55170

Doc1d:32989590

Page 32

---

## Page 33

SD 100-14193

It is commosiod that vermincion le grantod to

handload annotiately do coums va

C68 maunition, 9 nm

me phentic

mmmition wich in ostrome

overloud of me monic, pidiot powder colcising piossure

noishborior of 100,000 pounds for square inch, These

loud: Tonid conaan. riow

point millots.

It is pointed out to the Durean thai thơ averare

wenpon will suntasis prossures of approindicly 80,000 pounds

Presmes excooding this anount

Will cabic

_ Which this

ircurable dunge to any weapon through

ammunition is tired.

Pour or five rounds of each callber of the "special"

ammunition would then

we placed in a plactic bag similar to

the sype utilined lor the wrapping

broad, and abandoned

in front oi the US organiention

Locdgunzters in

that the armunition hid beon

SlIC):

L0st.

- 120

A comparable bog of damunition souid be prepared

and "loot" dirccily in front of the SPP headquarters.

It is folt that the aumunition should bo found

alunt innediatoly by a momber of one of the above organizations

ind mibsequentor ntilined cither in fixcarms practice or in an

altonpi inic inate a momber of one of the opposing groups.

It is not folt that the ammunition. li utilized

In a land sun, would caune any sovere porsonal damage to the

indiridual using tü.. It vould, howevers cause the weapon to

be rendored completely useless on & pernanent basis.

It is further indicated that by loading the shells

with holloy point annition those will be nure of a tendoncy

for the uscr

to save this ammunicion for utilication in an

assassination aitompi directod eithor at a momber of an

opposino ercup or aù a menbor oi law enforcesent.

In the event

such ammunition is designated for this type of uso, it is

pointed out thai a lite could be saved and possibly that of

a polico oilicor due to the fact that the overloaded

ammunition vould not function correctly.

- 2

660J4251958

H₩ 55170

DooId: 32989590 Page 33

---

## Page 34

SID

100-14194

To armation would be dronped ia

front of the

appropriate hodaddlot do such

rainer toot the

arrivil

at ito destinatzon rould be

cunplotely anontons in nailre.

_ALL i

' •

- 3:

it eter

_ IN 55170 DocId: 32989590

Page 34

---

## Page 35

MIROM

sUnjECT:

11110..41

May miles is "

3131.0

cos9 11.

UND SINTES GONE SENT

"Niemorandim

DIRECTOR, IBI (100-418006)

DATE:

SAC, SAIS DIEGO (100-).4192) (P)

COUNTER INTELLIGINCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATICKALIST - HATE GROUPS

MACIAL INTLILIGENCE

(BPP)

12/15/69

Re San Diero letter to the Bureau 18/3/69,

San Diego airtol to the Bureau 12/3/69, San Francisco lotter

do the Bureau 12/3/69, Newark airtel to the Bureau 12/4/69,

San Dicgo teletspe to the Burenu 12/12/69, and San Diego

aintel io the Bureau. 12/15/69.

OPERATIOSS UNDER CONSIDERATION

deterite the current status of those individunls.

possibil tico ior counterintolligence action will be explored

and appropriato requests submitted to the Bureau.

One proposal is presently awaitiry Bureau evaluation.

Attenpto are boing made to detornine if th: BPP

has activoly nade cíforts or has been succossíil in

octablishing an cifice of the BPp on the Univcrsity of

6i:f: win at Sau Diero (UC'D) Campus under

If it is determined that they have

estiblishd such & unit, appropriate requests will be submitted.

Efforts are also being made to deterrina if the tsu

group is aticupting to infiltrate the various Black Student

counoil and/or Black Student Union organications on the various

campuses.

It li is determined that they are, appropriate

Icquests will be submitted to

REC 3othe Bureau.

540

2

- Burean (AM) (REGISTERED)

• San Diego

RUB: bef

DEC 1$196% IVED Fit,..

Ally 6. 1513

E&JANA

RAGIAL:

NIW

1970

NW 55170 DooId: 32989590 Page 35

---

## Page 36

181-10265

55170

DocId: 32989590

Page

36

---

## Page 37

SD 100-14192

II.

OPERATIONS BEING EFFECTED

The Bureau-approved anonymous letter to RON KARENGA

head of the US, organization in Los Angeles, along with the "n

newspaper clipping has been mailed.

No results have thus

14940091

Petan

organization is in violation of income tax laws.

Investigation is being conducted by both the

San Diego Police Department Intelligence Unit and San Diego

POLICe Department Forgery Detail concerning the purchase of

an Amalite 180 rifle by VINCENT. HALLIER and another by

ANTHONY DUAS. For tangible results see following section

III.

TANGIBLE RESULTS

On 12/1Z/09, InIormaTion concerning purcisases oi

San Diego Police Department on a UACB basis.

As a-result, the San Diego Police Department has

established a

surveillance of Kraspe's Gun Shop in an attempt to

effect DUMAS's apprehension when

she' appears to pick up the

weapon he ordered.

These surveillances are in effect as of

the present time. It was also subsequently determined by the

San Diego Office that the check which was submitted for payment

of DUMAS's weapon was paid for with a forged check in the name

Of GYENDOLYN RANDOLPH.

In view of the fact that this activity

encompasses a local crime, the information was disseminated

to the Forgery Detail of the San Diego Police Department.

That detail is currently conducting a joint investigation

with

the

Intelligence Unit of the Police Department in an effort

to identify the female who was with Dullas, who submitted

the check for payment, and

thereby obtain forgery warrants

charging both the girl and Dubs.

It is also felt that the racial briefing sessions

being given

by the San Diego Division are affording tangible

results for the counterinteligence Program?,, Through, these

briefings, the command levels of virtually all of the police!

departments in the San Diego Division are being apprised of

the identities of the leaders in the various militant groups.

HH 55170 DooId: 32989590

Page 37

---

## Page 38

"1.1%,

SD 10011192

* 14.429

4720

it is felt that, although specific insiances cannot be

attribuiod directly to the racial briccine program, police

otticore are much more alort for tuoso black militant

individu.is and as such are contributing to

the over all.

Counterintelligence Program directed against these groups.

Just prior to the raid

on the hondquarters of

the BPp in Sen DiegO Où 11/20/69, tho San Diogo Police

Departmont vas adrisca of

the extonsive fortifications

and sand barging eftocted at BPP headquarters.

the San Diego Police Department tactico concerning the raid

were changed wereby to plainclothesmen initially guined

entry into the headquarters

niter which they inmediately

Drought in reinforcements.

tactic was used rather

than storming the front of the building. as a result,

no

officors were injured and no exchange of gun fire resulted

as may have boen the case if the police dopartnent had not

beentmare of the forcifications Incorporated in the headquarters

building.

IV.

DEVELODIDATS OR COUNTALA BLEDGANICE EEREST

The situation in southeast San Diogo remains

quict at the present time.

Unconfined reports have been

receivod that the

organization, particularly, is

attompting is infiliute and obtain mombers in

the various

bach student counci. and black student union organizations

on varicus campuses.

Efforts are being made to detennile

the reliability of those uncontirned reporis.

• 3.000

1H 95170 DooFt: 72989599 Rage 38

---

## Page 39

181-10265

HH 55170

Doc1d: 32989590

Page

39

---

## Page 40

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

-7.044

OPTIONAL FORM NO 10

3010-104

MAY IDEZ EDITION

"'"''ESA GEN. REG. NO. 2)

UNITED STATES OL LNT

-Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-448006)

DATE: 12/3/69

SAG, SAN DIEGO (100-14192) (P)

COURTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS

RACIAL ITELLIGENCE

(BPP)

REFERENCES:

San Diego letter to Bureau, dated 11/17/09;

San Diego teletype to Bureau, dated 11/18/69;

Bureau letter to San Diego, dated 11/10/09;

San Diego airtel to Bureau, dated 11/19/59;

• Bureau Letter to san Diego, dated 11/19/09;

San Diego teletype to Bureau, dated 11/2/59:

Bureau letter to San Diego, dated 11/27/69;

Bureau letter to San Diego, dated

• 11/28/09;

san Diego airtel to Bureau, dated 12,3/09.

OPERATIONS UNDER CONSIDERATION

At the present time, one proposal for counterintelligence

action is awaiting Bureau evaluation.

This proposal concerns

sending of a letter to the San Diego Union newspaper concerning

SALVOL BO and FANIA JORDAN.

OPERATIONS BEING EFFECTED

A Bureau-approved anonymous Letter to RON KARANgA.

leader o1 the ungorganization, along with a newspaper clipping!

out of

the BPY newspaper, has been prepared and mailed.

resuits have thus far been observed.

Bureau authorized anonymous letter sent to farra?

"JONG JOHN" WASHINGION In LOS Angeles.

For tangible/do.cestiing

this and related matters, see the next section of this letter.

REG- 83

it's-idea fas 6-0490

• Bureau (RIl) (REGISTERED)

WCOURTTAEA

• San Diego

3028 ON 1214174

RIsivd

I DEC 5 1Y63

(4)

as c.i INDEFINITE

11104 v

п....

IRATE!

HH 15170 DocId:32989590 Page 40

---

## Page 41

181-10265

...

NW 55170

DocId: 32989590

Page

' 41

---

## Page 42

SD 100-14192

Regarding the Bureau-approved Information furnished

on 12/2/0922 nestivista estend Invesemation

has not flled any required tax

possibilitles in this regard exist:

1)

2)

require

05a. C them to tile tax forms; or

has not realized sufficient income to

• 3)

us, enjoys a tax exempt status.

Exis advised that his investigation 1s continuing and

he Is presently

attempting to locate the books and records of

this corporation to dutcauns which ef the these conditione exist:

III.

TANGIBLE RESULTS

As a result of the Bureau-approved Information furnished

to the San DIego. POlice Department regarding the "sex orgies" being

held at BPP Headquarters In San Diego, which had. not previously

been known to the Police department at was conducted at BPP

Headquarters on 11/20/69.&

Deparcment, Intelligence

he assigned two officers to a

research project to detemine if any

solid basis could be found to conduct a raid.

His officers

aiscovered two outstanding traffic warrants for OINEAT ACKLES, a

member of the BPP, and his officers used these warrants to obtain

entry into BPP Headquarters.

As a result of this raid, QINEALACKLES, WILLIE JANES

WARD, VERNOR GOMES, GLORIA JEAN SHELDS, KARCH JANEITE ERICES

and GWENDOLIN ELOISE PANDOLPH Were all arrested. Seized at the

time of the arrests were three shotguns, one of which was stolen,

one rifle, four gas masks and one tear gas canister.

on 21/24/69,

Sheriff's Office was apprised of the raid.

here sche

San Diego Counti

se stared that he hadi

not previously heard of the raid and was

interested In obtaining ti

we..

- 2-

HY 55170

DocId: 32989590

Page 42

---

## Page 43

* 2

SD 100-14192

shotguns seized to determine if one of these shotguns could be

the one which was utilized in the shooting incident concerning

SAKUEL and FAILIA JODAN the night of 11/17/69.

s made

ran tests

on inem, but

shooting.

Also, as a direct result of this raid, the six remaining

members of the

BPP In San Diego vere Surmoned to Los Angeles on

11/20/09 ACCordinG tO

ZEES TATE,.

the los Angeles

Headquarters of the BPP.

Upon their arrival, they

were Informed that que to numerous problems with the BPP In San

Diego, incluains the recent raid on Bip Headquarters, the Bef

Branch in"San Diego was being dissolved. All of the members were

ordered to remain in Los Angeles and obtain employment and work

out of the Los Angeles Sranon of une bit.

According to

3 GLORIA SHIELDS aNd WILLIE WARD,

ZEKE IATE and DaSHOD luen resigned iron the BPP in preference

Foremaining In the Los Angeles area. mithon dums

coing to remain in Tos Angeles and 1s presently in that didntedly

Also, according toi

i * DUDAS. Was supposed to return to san

Diego within the next lew gays with orders from BPE Headquarters as te

what final disposition is to be made of all EPP property in the San

Diego area. DUAs will reportedly then return to los Angeles and

Join the Los Angeles Branch of the BPP.

On 12/2/69,? was Interviewed In regard to the 44

case concerning SAMUeL and PAlIA JORDAN.

At this time, due to the

nature of the inquiry, tale was very cooperative and indicated that

he had resigned from the BPP.

Satan A no more eat on the bone it to a de verday

co une fact that she

allowed the efficers to enter BPP Headquarters the night of the

raid.

=3-

HH 55170 DocId:32989590 Page 43

---

## Page 44

SD 100-14192

IV.

DEVELOPMENTS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

INTEREST

The most Interesting aspect concerning counterintell1-

gence Interest at this time, centers around the possibility that

the BPP In San Diego has been dissolved. This reported development

Is being closely followed by the san Diego Orfice, and continued

counterintelligence requests will be submitted to Insure that

1f, in effect, the Party has been dissolved, it will be difficult

for them to resume operations.

It is also interesting to note that probably as a result

of the above activity, there has not been any recent conflict

reported between the BPP and US

1nc., in the san Diego area.

244

= 321 Ce

''!';

4

14 55170

DocId: 32989590

Page 41

---

## Page 45

181-10365

55170

DocId: 32989590

Page 45

---

## Page 46

TO

FROM

' SUBJECT:

WATERT

OPTIONAL FLEM NO 10

3210-108

MAY IOS: EDITION

GSA GEN

HLG.N0.27

UNITEL. STATES GO

CASENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-148006)

DATE:

2/17/70

SAC, SAN DIEGO (100-14192) (P)

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE

(BPP)

Re San Diego letter to the Bureau 2/3/70, Bureau

airtel to San Diego 2/2/70, San Diego airtel to the Bureau

2/4/70, Bureau airtel to San Diego 2/9/70, Bureau airtel

to San

Francisco 2/10/70, and Bureau airtel to San Diego 2/11/70.

I.

OPERATIONS UNDER CONSIDERATION

At the present time one proposal submitted by

San Diego is awaiting Bureau evaluation.

Caricatures attacking SHIRLEY JEAN SUTRERLAND,

a white contributor and supporter of the BPy, are being

prepared. A second caricature is also being prepared which

depicts HEYEY NEHTON as a homosexual. Upon completion of

these caricatures, they will be forwarded to the Bureau for

evaluation.

For the information of the Bureau, an extensive

list of names has been obtained from?

Of names rowesents antar contributors to the Big anat

to the BPP and

other leftist - anarchist groups.

This "index" is reportedly

Nelli

fire.

individuals listed as "good supporters" are being

identified. It is anticipated that upon completion of the

review, appropriate counterintelligence action will be requested.

2

- Bureau (AM) (REGISTERED) REC-3

- San Diego

1648

RLB: bef

(4)

i';

30780id 1215174

11571 win

51 MAR 3 1970

NW 55170 DocId:32989590 Page 46

---

## Page 47

181-10265

KH 55170 DocId: 32989590

Pade 47

---

## Page 48

SD 100-14192

airman

II.

OPERATIONS BEING EFFECTED

On 2/13/70, (2002

18421

Internal Revenue

Service, San Diego, advised that is far as his organization

can

determine, the

US Organizationis not required

to submit

any IRS forms.

Therefore, any further activity in this regard

is not anticipated at this time.

A check of the telephone of VERDONTENETTE

on 2/16/70, reflected that it is still operational.

therefore appear that the outstanding telephone bill of $161.91

has not been paid and has

therefore not been possible to

place the phone on "vacation" status.

No further results have been observed concernin

the Bureau approved information made available to

San Diego is currently awaiting information from the

Los Angeles and San Francisco Divisions concerning the

number of Bureau approved caricatures which can be utilized

in those respective Divisions.

inmediately upon receipi vi

this information, appropriate

numbers of câricatures will be

reproduced and mailed to those Divisions for distribution.

The Bureau approved letters to MOORE and

Sr."

on 2/11/10, Fee

was instructed to initiate

throush his associates the rumor that VERNON JOuNdONTENTTE

is a homosexual..

This is being effected at-the present time.

3 man. o

III.

TANGIBLE RESULTS

The BPP in San Diego no longer exists. A ma

and for Zuld have all advised that the primary

causes for the donise of the party are a result of 1) police

arrest of BPP members, 2) suspicions between individual

member's that everyone else was an informer or a police agent,

and 3) difficulty over funds.

It is felt that the San Diego Counterintelligence

Program has substantially contributed to this situation.

For the information of the Bureau, and by way of summary, the

following approved activities which fall within the above three

categories have been effectad and are believed to be the ,

activities which resulted in the causes cited by the informants

for the destruction of the party:

HH 55170 DocId:32989590 Page 48

---

## Page 49

ITAITED

5095051999

100-14192

On 1/16/69; 12015

mwas directed to, ano

instigated the rumor that wilY DENNON was personally

responsible for the shortage of lunds being experienced by

the BPP in San Diego at that time.

On 1/18/69, Su

Swas directed..to. make an

issue Of KENY DEMON giving & speech at. Cal lestern

-University while representing himself as a BPP official. This

• speech was scheduled for a time subsequent to the expulsion

Of DENNOY by Oakland Headquarters. At this time MALIER WALLACE,

who replaced DENION aS Captain 0fathe S3D Diero Branch,

became enraged and telephoned Oakland BPP Headquarters

complaining about_DENION and his speaking in behalf of the party.

On 1/23/69, information was received that members

of the BPP in San Diego were going to attend the funeral of

slain BPP members in Los Angeles.

They were reportedly going

to be armed in their travels to Los Angeles and this

information

was immediately furnished to the SDPD and

California Highway Patrol. As a result, on 1/24/69, five

members of the San Diego BPP were arrested in Los Angeles and

Cn250ễ 75th

pennession of meanne and arman rohhary:

On 2/3/69, an anonymous telephone call was

placed to the parents of KIll HENNING informing them of her

involvement and subsequent pregnancy by DAVID COES. The

parents showed extreme concern over a previously unknown

situation and KIll was forced to resign from the BPp and return

home to live.

"It also became general knowledge throughout

the Negro community that COMBS, a BPP leader, was responsible

for the difficulty being experienced by HENNiNG.

In addition, due to the act that coums was or

probation, his probation officer was notified of his involvement

with a girl who had not yet reached her majority. As a result

his probation was revoked and COMBS, is currently incarcerated

at California State

Penitentiary for Men at Chino.

In the interim, prior to the time COMBS' probation

was revoked, an anonymous

telephone call was placed to him

advising him that his arrest in Los Angeles was the direct

result of information furnished to the Los Angeles Police

Department by WALTER WALLACE.

This caused considerable

consternation on the part of several BPP members and caused

a widening of the split between VALLACE, OOMBS, and the party.

-3=

HH 55170 DocId:32989590 Page 49

---

## Page 50

100-14192

38OV

79924

Due to the fact that COMBS was held in custody by

the Los Angeles Police Department longer than the other four

members who, were arrested with him, the rumor was circulated

that DAVID COUSS was being detained longer because he was

cooperating with the Los Angeles Police, Department.

As a result of a substantial amount of suspicious

fear and distrust thus interjected into the party, the

• members took to running surveillances on one another in an

attempt.to determine who the "police agents" were. On

were being violated during the course of these surveillances.

As a result on 2/26/69, WALTER HALLACE was observed violating a

traffic law and was subsequently stopped by the police

department.

On a routine search of the vehicle, burglary

tools were

observed and WALLACE was placed in custody. Due

to the fact that WALLACê was at that time on parole,

his parole

officer was again contacted, made aware of the situation,

and a parole hold for investigation was placed against WALlaCE.

...

On. 3/5/65, two bEr members accuse intraCe in tie,

presence of several

other members of being a police agent.

SALIACE was disturbed to the point of visible shaking and

immediately accused another BPP member. This activity is

believed to be a direct result of a Bureau approved anonymous

telephone call placed to former BPP member SYLVESTER BELL

indicating that WALlACE was a police agent.

An additional call was then placed almost immediately

aiter the controntation to ZEkE TATE advising TATE that

WALLACE had named him as a Police agent in order to protect

his own hide.

the Los Angeles Police Depariment was

immediately

and

placed a hold against CD.IS stemming out of his arrest

in that city on 1/24/69.

This hold precludes _COMBS, being

sent to an honor farm and will not allow him to be

considered for parole prior to completion of his entire five

year sentence.

A felony warrant charging IQMIX HORNE was obtained

arrested in Los Angeles on 1/24/69.

This arrest, was occasioned

through Information furnished under provisions of, the

Counterintelligence

Program.

-4.

NW 55170 DooId: 32989590

Page 50

---

## Page 51

100-14192

DEBORAH JACKSON was forced to cease her association

with the BPP as a result of

JACISOL's mother reportedly having

talked with the nother of killantiG. As a result of what

HENNING's mother told JACKSON's mother, JACHSON began to

question the activities of her own daughter.

The result of

this questioning was that AckSoN's mother learned that

DEBORAl was also pregnant and therefore had her committed

to a reformatory as a wayward juvenile.

i On 3/25/69, bARiumBadas was arrested by the soli

as a result of information furnished by the San Diego Office

concerning BAKER's whereabouts. He had, on 3/19/69, been

expelled from the-BPP after having been accused by WALTER

WALLACE of being a police informer.

Information received from a criminal informant

• of the San Diego Office concerning members of the BPP believed

to be involved in a car theft ring was furnished to the

Intelligence UnitE the SDPD: This unit established

surveillances of

the suspects and resulted in the arrest of

individuals.

At the time of the arrest these

individuals,. ail bFF menvers, vere riding In a stolen 1y64

Cadillac.

At the time TATE was accused of being a police

wt55287

the matter was that iLlace hinself was an informer.

Jwas also contacted by fare and as a result tari

minali and another BPP member, went to Oakland on

3/28/69 to have WALLACE completely ousted from the BPP in

SanDiego..

As a result of the widespread rumors initiated by

Bureau, Informants, an extensive purge of the party was

attempted in San Diego.

As a result, DAVID BULLARD, LARRY

BAKER, and JOHNA!

HARVEY were ousted from the party.

Оп 5/16/69,

the SDPD raided the Shalimarrestawant.

as a result of information furnished to that Detail concerning

illegal serving of alcoholic beverages.

Three arrests of

BPP members were effected as a result of that raid.

- 5 .

HW 55170

DocId: 32989590

Page 51

---

## Page 52

SD 100-14192

• 21

through Bureau informants and complete background and

descriptive data regarding him was furnished to the police

department.

As a result a varrant charging HORNE with the

murder of SAVAGE was issued and HORNE was subsequently arrested

and charged in this

regard.

Information was furnished to the SDED concerning

sex orgies being held at BPP Headquarters.

•On 11/20/69,

the SDPD conducted a raid at BPP Headquarters and arrestec

six individuals. _confidential files were also obtained as a

result of this

raid as were several weapons.

As a result of the above raid, all of the remaining

members, six, of the BPP in San Diego were summoned to

Los Angeles.

They were informed that due to the numerous

problems in San Diego, including the recent raid, the San Diego

Drench of the BPP was being dissolved.

Carm both reported that GLOPId SILELDS had been severely

"beaten by other members of the BPP due to the fact that she

allowed officers to enter headquarters the night of the raid.

During an interview of SHIRLEy FLOURNeY on

1/28/70, it was noticed that WALTER WALLACh's car was parked

in front of her residence. ELOURNOY, who was extremely upset

over the BPP, was told that she might wish to have the seeD;

remove the vehicle.

She telephoned the police department,

complained

of the vehicle, and as a result the vehicle was

impounded.

In addition to the above activities, the BPP

Breakfast Program in San Diego was destroyed primarily as a

result of anonymous telephone calls placed to the Arch Bishop

of the San Diego diocese protesting the activities of the

priest who was pushing the BPP Program. As a result, this

priest was transferred from the San Diego diocese and the

Breakfast Program completely collapsed.

As a result of information furnished to a representative

Of GOVAINOr REAGAN'S OffiCe On Il/4/69, local news media in

San Diego carried a story reflecting that State Senators and

Representatives in California have launched a statewide

investigation concerning misappropriation of funds designated

Ior the various state colleges

and which are ending. up in the

furtherance of black militant prograns.

- 6 -

HN 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 52

---

## Page 53

+ +

SD

100-14192

The leadership of the BPP in San Diego has

for the past year and one half been the primary target for

the Counterintelligence Program which is believed to have been

the catalytic agent in neutralizing them.

KENNY DINNON, the erganizor and original captain

rumors regarding the conversion of BPP

funds to his personal use and as a result of his consorting

with white women.

He was replaced by WALTER WALLACE, who was ousted

primarily as a result of rumors spread by informants that

-WALLACE was a "pig", a police informer, and generally

incompetent.

This, coupled with the fact that the police

knew where and when to conduct arrests and raids which

compounded and intensified suspicions of BPP members of each

other was also a contributing factor. In addition, WALLACE

allowed the contidential records of the BPP in San Diego to

fall into the hands of law enforcement and this fact

immodiatol; bosame lenown to the BDD Headquarter in nakland:

RONALD

_FREEMAN waS then sent from Los Angeles to

replace Hallace in taking over the reins-or the party.

thereafter,

however, a felony warrant charging FREDNAN with

murder was

Los Angeles. FREEMAN attempted to

continue running the San Diego BPP from an underground

position but was unsuccessful due to the fact that his

every location was reported by Bureau informants and

Immediately passed on to SDPD. This situation finally caused

FREEMAN to fiee San Diego and was subsequently arrested in

Northern California.

ANTRONY DUMAS then became the dominant figure

in San Diego. He met his demise, however, over exploitations

of the party and particularly the

female members.

The police

department was apprised of this situation and, as a result,

effected numerous arrests and seizure of additional documents

and weapons during the course of the raid over a BPP sex orgy.

IV.

DEVELOPMENTS OF. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INTEREST

As previously indicated, there is no BPP in

san Diego. QUALAL ACKLES and ANTHONY DUnS are the only two

individuals who even refer to themselves as Black Panthers.

AchEs is currently facing local criminal prosecution, and

DUMAS iS

facing a current armed

robbery charge.

= 7=

NH 55130 DocId: 32989590 Page 53

---

## Page 54

SD 100-14192

The US organization is losing favor in the

black community and all of

their efforts have met with

negative results.

For example, they attempted to "pressure"

Caxeers Now, a job placement burcau, to provide more jobs

for US members and were soundly rejected.

They have attempted

to take over the various Black Student Union groups on local

campuses, and without exception, have been unable to do so.

The activities of both the former BPP members and

of the Us organization, are being very closely followed on

a daily basis.

Any

potential counterintelligence action

directed against either of

these factions which appears to

be indicated will be immediately requested.

On 2/14/70, DIMAS and IATE-went to the Los Angeles

BPP Headquarters and were told by the officials that they no

longer are considered as a voice of the BPP and were not to

call and/or hold meetings, nor were

they to act as representatives

of

the BPP in San Diego or elsewhere.

The activities portrayed in this letier do not

encompass the full scope of

the counterintelligence

activities directed against the BPP in San Diego.

For the

purpose of this letter, only those activities falling

within the three areas mentioned by the informants have,

for the most part, been reviewed.

222K

10592559

F.

1H 55170 DocId: 32989590 Page 54

---

## Page 55

181-10265

HH 55170

Doc1d:32989590

Page

55

---

## Page 56

- ..

"TO

:

SUNJECT:

tuio-10s

054 66%

1.0.27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-448006)

SAC, SAN DIEGO (100-14192) (P)

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIONALIST

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE

HATE GROUPS

(90-DAY PROGRESS LETTER)

DATE:

9/10/70

anisterst

Re San Diego airtels to Bureau 6/1/70, 6/12/70, ano

7/20/70, and Bureau airtels to San Diego 6/19/70 and 7/29/70.

I.

OPERATIONS UNDER CONSIDERATION

sent to t

in attempt to influence action by the san Diego City Council j

and Police Department against the Black Panther Party (BPP) •

No action is being taken regarding this matter because efforts

to reorganize the BPP in San Diego have failed, and currently,

there is no BPP in this area.

122073

109-07%

counterintelligence program.in the luture, a proposal will

be submitted.

II.

OPERATIONS BEING EFFECTED

As set forth in pur previous progress letter,

distribution of the Bureau-approved business cards concerning

RON KARENGA. Of the US, Incorporated, has been offected.

this connection, although no direct results have been observed,

US, Incorporated in San Diego has disaffiliated itself from

RON KARENGA

, and no longer maintains allegiance to RON KARENGA.

No tangiblé results have been reported regarding the previous

distribution of other Bureau-approved anonymous notes.

Bureau (AM) (REGISTERED)

- San Diego

REC-52.

LFW: bef

(4)

SI-121

-1;

...?

останки

& SEP 14 1970 •

WIS

HH

55170 DocId: 32989590

GED

--.

Page 56

satY.

---

## Page 57

181-70ao5

1N 55170

DooId: 32989590

Page

---

## Page 58

3

*SD 100-14192

III.

IANGIBLE RESULTS

As set forth above, US, Incorporated, in San Diego

has disaffiliated itself from ROù KARENGA and no longer

maintains

allegiance

to ROM KARENGA andtis is conceivably

the result of our Counterintelligence Program.

DONALD EUGENE HARRIS, a member of the BPP in

Los Angeles who was in San Diego for several months, was

unsuccessful in his efforts to reactivate the BpP in

furnished to the San Diego Police

Departnent"and"led to his

arrest on 6/22/70 for suspicion

auto theft.

During May, 1970, 4

pose obtained informatio

indicating that former BPP leader,

KENNETH, LEE, DENNON

was in possession of stolen credit cards and proceeds

from

local burglaries:

This information was furnished to the

police department and he was arrested on 6/5/70 and charged

IV.

DEVELOPMENTS OF COUNTERINTELLEGENCE INTEREST

As previously noted, US, Incorporated, in San Diego

is no longer affiliated with RON KARENGA and though it has

not yet ceased to exist in San Diego, Indications are

that

this

organization will change its name and become affiliated

with some other

type of black militant organization which

has not yet been decided upon.

MInISter AMOS BRADFORD, who continues. co.nead. the

Nation of istan

NOT "In"

San Diego, has been the subject

of discussion and dissention among older members of the NOI

in San Diego.

However, he continues

to maintain control

and the NoI continues

to refuse to form any type of coalition

with any other black militant organization.

The Mexican-American community in Southeast

San Diego has not been giving any support to the small

militant faction of this community.

Although informants

have reported that seven local

"lexican-American youths

participated in the Mexican-American disturbance in Los Angeles,

California during the latter

part of 1970.

- 2 ..

14 55170 DocId: 32989590. Page 58

Betra

---

## Page 59

181-10265

HH 55170

DocId: 32989590

Page

59

---

