# docid-32129395

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1.

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NW 53932 Date:

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10035-10232

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3495

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : BRANIGAN,

W. A.

TO

: SULLIVAN,

W. C.

TITLE

: (No Title]

DATE

: 04/15/1964

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : WARREN COMMISSION, PROCEDURES, QUESTIONS

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE. OF LAST REVIEW : 06/18/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

TO

OPTiONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-100

GSA,DEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum 0509238030

Mr. W. C. Sullivanues

40dts

DATE:

4-15-64

71

FROM

CONFIDEN

-HAD

Mr. W. A. Bran

2040

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY

THE RAY SEC RUSSA On US 1a1to 9/20172

lavé.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

D.C

Ersmigan

On 4-15-64 Inspector Malley received a call from J.

In New York. City.

It will be noted that on

Rankin

4-17-64 the Commission

contemplates interrogating functionaries of the Communist Party (CP) in

New York Concerning their knowledge of Oswald.

4-728

1 105-82555-934

ur. Rankin made reference to the report of Special Agent

Thomas P. Estep dated 12-18-63at Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Rankin noted

that the report referred to a meeting which occurred at Wheeling,

"conVentill, on' 12-8-63 tr. Rankin noted that the report was aren

and he wanted to know if, in talking to CP people,

would be satisfactory for him to ask questions concerning the

of the meeting

details,

without Interferhio "ith any of our operations.

OP LeadeR Ny. UVa, no

The report in question contains information furnished by

confidential Informant CI. 104-S who advised that Arnold Johnson ofu

New York City, public relations man for the CP, gave a

with the assassination of, President Kennedy. The information, while

helpful, does not add anything of particular significance to the Oswald

investigation and is generally self-serving to the CP.

"•*=

[4]

r.**

&N

On 4-15-64. SAC Mason advised that at the particular meeting

there were six other CP members present with Mr. Johnson.

Lnree

were

Virginia and

Ohio where there is CP activity and, hence, these informants are valuable

to the coverage of the CP establishment not only by the Cincinnati

Office

but by our Cleveland and Pittsburgh Offices. Furthermore,

according

to SAC Mason, the particular informant who reported the meeting,

11 CI- 104-5,

is the only informant who is qualified to attend the StateyBoard

meetings of the hio CP

"Mr: "Mason" noted that If Johnson is questioned

concerning this meeting

they will obviously check for a source and this

could uncover one or

all of

jeopardizing our coverage.

5205+412561149

ne, informants involved thereby seriously

HE 59

1 - Mr. Belmont

53495

HORDEN

1

Mr. Rosen

LASSIETED

ИНН

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Malley

-

MY.

NT.

Branigan

Lenihan

i|11

BE MAY 1 1964

792000

304

to Below

HN 53932

DoOId: 32129395

Page 2

JD DONORNE

---

