# docid-32256318

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/1/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10095-10376

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

001763

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54756 Date:

10-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

WC

DATE:

04/03/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DEALEY PLAZA

WITNESSES, TURNER, FM

TEXAS SCHOOL BOOK DEPOSITORY

DOCUMENT TYPE: DEPOSITION

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/05/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 34.

v9.1

HH 54756

DocId: 32256318

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2

2

6

8

10

21

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

2.2

23

34

25

26

sweatshirt and sandy-colored hair, which was longer than a creweut.

They said they thought they could identify him. He took pictures of

Oswald to Ronald Fischer. He said that it could be the man but he

could not be positive. (pp. 128-129.)

Vol. 49.

(Signature waived.

Area II.

Exhibit 1.)

DEPOSITION OF

F. M. TURNER

Dallas, Texas

April 3, 1964

By:

David W. Belin

Staff Counsel

F. M. Turner, Dallas Police Department Detective, was

riding in the pilot car of the motorcade, possibly 3 minutes in front of

the motorcade, with Detective Sankel and Chief Lumpkin. They were on

the Stemmons Freeway when they first heard something was wrong. They

went to Parkland Hospital and after President Kennedy and Governor

Connally were unloaded, they went back to the Texas School Book De-

pository Building. In the meantime they shook down a boxcar or a

caboose in the railroad yards. Turner talked to some witnesses and

then went over to the Sheriff's office and talked to Arnold Rowland who

said they saw a man standing in the background of an open window two

floors from the top who appeared to have a rifle with a scope on it. The

man was standing on the west part of the south side of the building. Row-

land thought it was a security man and that is why he made no issue of it.

Rowland saw a white man. (p. 127.) He also interviewed Ronald Fischal

and Bob Edwards who said they saw a white man in his 20's standing oi

the fifth floor of the TSBD Building in the east window with an open-necked

1.

HW 54756

DocId: 32256318

Page 2

---

