# docid-32404230

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10100

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJEILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : JOHN E. PEREIRA

TO : EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

TITLE

MEMO: DECLASSIFICATION OF JEK ASSASSINATION

RECORDS--STATUS REPORT

DATE

PAGES

10/25/1993

3

SUBJECTS : MICROFILM

JEK ASSASSINATION

EXTERNAL REQUESTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

ADMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT

STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/30/03

COMMENTS :

JFK-M-16 : F2 : 2000.02.08.14:55:34:687054.

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10100

HH 53217

DocId: 32404230

Page

1

---

## Page 2

..?!

_FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

files

CSI-0330/93

25 October 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Executive Director

VIA:

Director

Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM:

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT:

Declassification of JFK Assassination

Records--Status Report

1.

This memorandum is for your information.

provides a status report on the declassification

of records

related to the assassination of President Kennedy. We also

note requests from Congress and other agencies to review

their files.

Review of documents withheld earlier: We have

completed review of nearly one third of the 10,000 pages

that were initially denied in full. Of those processed thus

far, approximately 95 percent will

probably be released.

Declassification of the entire collection should be

completed within several weeks.

3.

Declassification of microfilm (150,000 pages) : All

of the

microfilm has been printed

out and

organized into

been reviewed. Our target

1994.

- One problem is that many of the pages printed

out are virtually illegible, apparently because of the

uneven quality of either the

the documents that were originally filmed.

We are

exploring possible methods of enhancing the printouts

with the Office of Logistics.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

NW 53217 DocId: 32404230

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Declassification of JFK Assassination

Records--Status Report

4.

External requests: We have been requested to

divert personnel to review JFK documents containing CIA-

originated information in several substantial sets of

records outside the Agency.

This could have an impact on

the goal of completing review by 1 January 1994.

- SSCI:

65 large loose-leaf binders of Church

Committee and other materials.

(At the SSCI's request,

one of our review officers has been detailed to the

Hill for this task.)

- House Committee on Administration: 20,000 pages

of House Assassinations Committee records.

(We are.

processing these documents.)

- National Archives: More than 600 tapes of

interviews from the Warren Commission. (The Archives

is still developing procedures for processing the

tapes.)

- Presidential libraries:

We have been asked to

send teams to the Kennedy, Ford, and Johnson Libraries.

(We have deferred this task until the documents

described above have been declassified.)

The Presidential Review Board, called for by the

JFK Act, has yet to be appointed. All sanitized documents

are subject to review by the Board, which will have

authority to overrule agencies' determinations as to what

information is to be protected. We expect to have extensive

deliberations with the Board once it is in place.

6. With your approval, we have hired ten additional

contractors to review the JFK documents, and are planning

bring in several more.

John F. Pereira

33217

Doc1d:32404230

Page 3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

.:""

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Declassification of JFK Assassination

Records--Status Report

DCI / CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/30335

(25 Oct 93)

Distribution:

Original - Executive Director

1

- Executive

Registry

1

- D/CSI

1 - C/HRG

1

- HRG File

1 - Jớhn Lauder, Executive Secretary (Drop copy) icl

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

53217

DooId: 32404230

Page 4

---

