# docid-32144604

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10074-10141

RECORD_SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

44-1639-2144

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45652 Date:

11-16-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/14/1963

PAGES:

1298

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-810

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/26/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

JFK Law 11(a)

REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGE i, INDEX ON PAGES a-ee

HH 45652

DocId: 32144604

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1

DI 44-1639

RMO/ Jn

The following investigation was conducted by SA ROY

M. OSBORN, at Birmingham, Alabama on November 25, 1963.

The following gambling informants of the Birmingham

Office were contacted

on November 25, 1903 and all denied knowing

RUBY:

BH 227-C, BH 220-C, BH 202-PC, BH 283-PC, BH 293-CP,

BH 299-CP, and EUGENE MORRIS RILEY, POT.

The following logical gambling sources were Ilkewise

Avenue, South; ESTHER WRIGH,, Meyers Drive-In, 2731 Eighth Avenue

LOUIS BOPION,

South, and JONES. ANDERSON, 1827 First

Avenue North. The above

sources are either known

gamblers or associates of

same.

Records of the

Birmingham Police Department contain

no information concerning

JACK RUBY or RUBENSIEIN.

JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI

personally negative on RUBY, provided

name of MORRIS BLOCK,

old-time Chicago bar operator and bookie,

who furnished information forwärded in FD-302 and teletype lead

for Chicago.

Others contacted with negative results are LA 3445-0,

LA 4400-PC,

LA 4410-6, LA 4448-PC, POI

PCI SAM

PARKAS, PCI COSSLETT PALMER.

On November 26, 1963, Salt Lake City Office advised all

logical sources and informants

in the Salt Lake City Division

have been contacted and alerted for information regarding RubY.

No pertinent information has been developed to date. Information

as to sources contacted is being maintained in Salt Lake City files.

On December 2, 1963, the Latent Fingerprint Section,

Identification Division, advised as follows:

"Fingerprints and palm prints Jack I. Ruby, FBI #693083E,

not identical with latent impressions remaining unidentified in

the case entitled 'Assassination of President John F. Kennedy,

November 22, 1963; AFO.'"

COVER PAGE

NW 45652 DooId: 32144604 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1

DI 44-1639

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

Gambling informants and

sources, IN 26-C, AV 127-PC,

IV 117-C-TE, CHARLES EDNARD ANDERSON, PCI, HARRY COOPERSMITH, PCI,

EMANUAL FREEDMAN, PCI, all contacted

11/25/63, negative concerning

RUBY.

Las Vegas indices negative re YUDIE JACOBS, ART WAYNE,

and SAMMY MENOSH

On 11/26/63, Salt Lake City Office advised all logical

sources in the Salt Lake City Division have been contacted and

alerted for information regarding RuBY.

No pertinent infesmation

has been developed to date.

• Information as to

sources contacted

is being maintained in Salt Lake City files.

IV 54-0 advised on 11/29/63, Las Vegas telephone

number 735-4303 called by RUBY is unpublished number of LEWIS

MCWILLIE associate of RUBY, previously interviewed.

R

COVER PAGE

HH 45652

DooId:32144604

Page 3

---

## Page 4

IV 44-48

LV 54-C, on November 29, 1963, advised SA ROBERT D.

that Las Vegas telephone number 736-4303 is

published number listed to LEWIS MC WILLIE, 3627 Eastern

Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada.

MC WILLIE was interviewed in this matter on

November

25, 1963.

Information and FD-302, reflecting

results, have been furnished to Bureau and Dallas.

JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI |

Assistant Manager, Thunderbird

Hotel, Las Vegas,

on November

29, 1963, advised SA WAYNE H.

DRAKE

that no records on incoming calls to the Thunderbird

Hotel are maintained.

The Thunderbird Hotel telephone is

735-4111.

COVER

PAGE

HH 45652

DocId: 32144604

Page 1

---

## Page 5

1

SI 44-496

AUR: paw

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

On 12-4-63, SL 1130-C advised SAA HOWARD C. KENNEDY

that on the night of 12-3-63, he was

talking to JACK BUHLINGIER.

address unknown, who is employed as a cab driver by st. Louis

County Cab Company.

BUHLINGLER remarked to the informant

that JACK RUBY, the man who shot LEE OSWALD in Dallas, Texas,

was a cab driver employed by the Ace

Cab Company at St. Louis

"years ago."

The informant said that BUHLINGLER Indicated to

him that BUKLINGIER had been furnished this information by

one or more "old-time cáb drivers"

who used to work for

• Ace

Cab Company, or by veteran cab drivers still at Ace Cab company.

The informant expressed awareness that several

drivers who worked for Ace Cab Company ten to fifteen years

are now employed by St. Louis County Cab Company, although

he was unable to furnish their names.

The informant could

furnish no further information concerning this matter and

requested that his identity as the recipient of this

Information from BUHLINGLER be concealed since he did not

know whether BUHLINGER had furnished the information to

anyone other than the informant.

With

regard to the interview with JOSEPH P. MusT

on 12-4-63 as reflected in this report, the following

information was received:

SI 1214-C*, on 12-5-63, advised that MUETH told:

Mrs.

JOSEPH BARBARA COSTELLO, Owner of Checker Cab company

formerly known as Ace Cab Company that he had been interviewed

by the FBI regarding the investigation being conducted in Dallas,

Texas, and that he had been questioned as to whether RUBY had

ever been employed as

a driver with the company.

Mrs. COSTELLO

exclaimed, "RUBY!", and asked, "What did you tell them?"

stated he

told the

that RUBY had never been employed there

to his knowledge.

Mrs. COSTELLO then indicated to MUETH that

what MUETH should have told the FBI was that Ruby was employed

there and that he should have told them

that' "about two days

before that happened he must have taken a plane down there."

COVER PAGE

NW 45652 DooId: 32144604 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DI 44-1639

RUB: gJ

ROYAL L. BLASSINGAME at San

The followire Invan ation was conducted by sA

Puerto Rica, on November

26, 1963:

SARAR TORRES PERALIA, PeL, an attorney Ior Loca

610, Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union, San Juan, advised

ANA MARIA DEL VALLE, Secretary-Treasurer, Hotel and Restaurant

Workers Union,

was approached by MIGUel CRUz, Organizer

for Local 901, Teamsters Union,, who made a statement, "Now

that we've taken care of President KENNEDY, We 'I! have no

trouble in

taking over things"

PERALTA also furnished

above information to THOMAS

A. KENNELLY, Departmental Attorney, U.S. Department of

Justice, Washington.

BB

COVER PAGE

ITH 45652 DocId: 32144604 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DI 44-1639

RMO/ jn

The following investigation was conducted by SA ROY

M. OSBORN, at Birmingham, Alabama

on November 25, 1963.

The following gambling informants of the Birmingham

Office were contacted on November 25, 1963 and all denied knowing

RUBY: H 227-C, BH 220-0, BH 282-PC, BH 283-PC, BH 293-CP,

BH 299-CP, and EUGENE MORRIS RILEY, PCI.

The following logical gambling sources were likewise

contacted and could furnish no information conceming RUBY, and

denied knowing him: CHARLES PHARO, Manager Bowlo-Mac, 3221 Third

Avenue, South; ESTHER WRIGHT, Meyers Drive-In, 2731 Eighth Avenue

North; ISRAEL COPLON, 1819 Fourth Avenue North, LOUIS KOPLON,

1813 Fourth Avenue North, CEORGE HARRISON, 3510 Sixth Avenue

South, and JONES ANDERSON, 1027 First Avenue North.

The above

sources are either known gamblers or associates of same.

Records of the Birmingham Police Department contain

no information concerning a JACK RUBY or RUBENSTEIN.

JFK Act 6 (4)

PCI

personally negative on RUBY, provided

name of MORRIS BLOCK, Old-time Chicago bar operator and bookie,

who furnished information forwarded in FD-302 and teletype lead

for Chicago.

Others contacted with negative results are LA 3445-C,

LA 4410-C,

PARKAS, PEI COSSUED PALMER.

LA 4448-PC, PCI

On November 26, 1963s

Salt Lake City Office advised alt

logical sources and informants

in the Salt Lake City Division

have been contacted and alerted for information regarding RuBY®

No pertinent information has been developed to date. Information

as

to sources contacted is being maintained in Salt Lake City files.

On December 2, 1963, the Latent Fingerprint Section,

Identification Division, advised as follows:

"Fingerprints and palm prints Jack L. Ruby, FBI #693083E,

not identical with latent impressions remaining unidentified in

the case entitled 'Assassination of President John F. Kennedy,

November 22, 1963; AFO.'"

COVER PAGE

NW 45652 DooId: 32144604 Page 7

---

## Page 8

1

DI 44-1639

AT LAS VEGAS,

NEVADA

Gambling informants and sources, LY 26-C, LV 127-PC,

HARRY COOPERSMITH, PCI,

1V 117-C-19, CHARLES NOWARD SADERN 12/63, meative concerning

EMANUAL FREEDMAN, PCI, all contacted

RUBY •

Las Vegas indices negative re YUDIE JACOBS, ART WAYNE,

and SAMMY MENOSH.

От 11/26/635

Salt Lake City Office advised all logical

sources in the Salt Lake City Division Have been contacted und

alerted for information regarding rist.

No pertinent information

has been developed to date.

• Information as

to

sources contacted

is being maintained in Salt Lake City files.

IV 54-C advised on 11/29/63, Las Vegas telephone

number 735-4303 called by RUBY is unpublished number of LEWIS

MCWILLIE, associate of RUBY, previously interviewed.

R

COVER PAGE

774 45652

DocId: 32144604

Page 8

---

## Page 9

IV 44-48

LEE,

IV 54-C, on November 29, 1963, advised SA ROBERT D.

that Las vegas telephone number 735-4303 is a non

published number listed to LEWIS MC WILLIE, 3627 Eastern

Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada.

MC WILLIE was interviewed in this matter on

November 25, 1963. Information and FD-302, reflecting

results, have been furnished to Bureau and Dallas.

JEK Act 6 (4)

Assistant Manager, Thunderbird

Hotel, Las

vegas,

on November 29, 1963, advised SA WAYNE H.

DRAKE

that no records on incoming calls to the Thunderbird

Hotel are

maintained. '

The Thunderbird Hotel telephone is

735-4111.

COVER

PAGE

HH 45652

DocId: 32144604

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SL 44-496

Adh: paw

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

on 12-4-63, SL 1130-C advised SAA HOWARD C. KENNEDY

that on the night of 12-3-63, he was

talking to JACK BUHLINGLER,

address unknown, who is employed as a cab driver by St. Louis

County Cab Company.

BUHLINGLER remarked to the informant

that JACK RUBY, the man who shot LEE

• OSWALD in Dallas, Texas,

was a cab driver employed by the Ace

Cab Company at St. Louds

"years ago."

The informant said that BUHLINGIER indicated to

him that BUHLINGLER had been furnished this information by

one or more "old-time cab drivers" who used to work for

Cab company, or by veteran cab drivers still at Ace Cab Company.

The informant expressed awareness that several

drivers who worked for Ace Cab Company ten to fifteen years

are now employed by st. Louis County Cab Company, although

he was unable to furnish their names.

The informant could

furnish no further information concerning this matter and

requested that his identity as the recipient of this

Information from BUHLINGLER be concealed since he did not

know whether BUHLINGER had furnished the information to

anyone other than the informant.

With regard to the interview with JOSEPH P. MUETH

on 12-4-63, as reflected in this report, the following

information was received:

SI

1214-C*, on 12-5-63, advised that MUETH told

MrS. JOSEPH (BARBARA) COSTELLO, owner of Checker Cab

(termerzy mown as Ace cab Company) that he had been intertiered

by the FBI regarding the investigation being conducted in Dallas,

Texas, and

garden the en

that he had been questioned as to whether RUBY had

ever been employed as

a driver with the company.

Mrs. COSTELLO

exclaimed, "RUBY!", and asked, "What did you tell them?"

MUETH

stated he

told the

FBI that RUBY had never been employed there

to his knowledge.

Mr's. COSTELLO then indicated to MUTH that

what MUETH should have told the FBI was

that RUbY was employed

there and that he should have told them

that' "about two days

before that happened he must have taken a plane down there.

COVER PAGE

NW 45652 DocId: 32144604

Page 10

---

## Page 11

DI: 44-1639

RUB: gJ

1..

The following investigation was conducted by SA

ROYAL L. BLASSINGAME at San Juan, Puerto Rica, on November

26, 1963:

SARAH TORRES PERALTA, PCI, an attorney for Local

610, Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union, San Juan, advised

ANA MARIA DEL VALLE, Secretary-Treasurer, Hotel and Restaurant

Workers Union, was approached

by MIGUEL CRUZ, Organizer

for Local 901, Teamsters Union,, who made a statement,

"Now

that we've taken care of President KENNEDY, we 'II have no

trouble in

taking over things

PERALTA also furnished above information to THOMAS.:

A. KENNELLY, Departmental

Attorney, U.S. Department of

Justice, Washington.

BBK

COVER PAGE

HH 45652

DocId: 32144604

Page

11

---

