# docid-32298646

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10422

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-558

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1964

JRO, TRA, ASSOC, BUSS VENTURES, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HW 45945 DocId: 32298646 Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

2/14/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113-C)

JOHN ROSELLI, Aka

AR

On 2/11/64 ROSSELLI observed leaving his Los.

Angeles apartment.

He went to visit his tailor and

proceeded towards Beverly Hills, Calif.

On 2/13/64 he left

Los Angeles at 12:30 p.m. for Las Vegas, Nevada, via TWA

flight #196, using a one-way tourist class ticket.

On 2/11/64 JOHN C. HAGERMAN, Security Manager,

Litton Systems, advised that the two men who were driving

ROSSELLI's car

on 2/4/64 in Los Angeles, and who were

accompanied by two Litton Systems employees, are STANLEY

PARKER and JACK ZUCKERMAN.

HAGERMAN

said PARKER owns

a company in New York City which manufactures electric

light bulbs.

ZUCKERMAN is a Vice President, B.M.. Company -

Electrical Division, Rock Islana, 111., which firm manulactures

PARKER and ZUCKERMAN were contacting

Litton Systems, endeavoring to sell their products for usé in

a new Litton Systems facility in Des Plaines, Illinois.

PARKER told the Litton Systems employee;, RICHARD BARGER,

that the car (ROSSELLI's) was loned to him by a close

friend.

Information has been previously obtained in this

investigation from

] PCI, that PARKER was a

good friend of hers and was acquainted with ROSSELLI but

was not known to be a close friend.

is a former

girl friend of ROSSELLI.

REC- 43

92-3267558

Bureau

1- Los Angeles

HFD : JM

(4)

5 FEB 1'% 1964

.:81

80017

Approved:

Sent

_M Per

OTHER 4

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45945 DocId: 32298646 Page 2

---

