# docid-32299323

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10225-10103

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-114543-1ST NR 152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/01/1964

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

EVID, MAGNETIC RECORDING TAPE, TRITON CONTAINER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LAB RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32299323

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released'under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE / 11-11-3017

KX 105-1742

SECRET

ZECUEL

Mx, CISNEROS stated he listened to the re-

cording but he did not know what significance it might

have since he could not understand it and therafore

he desired to turn it over to the Ill as possibly

being a coded message by anti-CASTRO elenants. He

said it would appent, or at leanc be his guese that

the radio transuission was being sent fron the area

of Boston, probably directed to Cuba. Ix. CISNEROS

stated ALDO GIL at lictleton, Massachusetts could fumish

further details and also the name of the JURE member in

the Boston area who monitored and recorded the trans-

mission. CISWEROS added he understands that other

transmissions of a similar nature have also been re-

to FBI, Miami.

The tape recording furnished by CISNEROS 10

transuitted herewith to the Bureau with the suggestion

it be furnished to Bureau Source O) for appropriate

study. (

The Boston Office is requested to contact

ALDO GIL*

475 King Street, Litcleton, Massachusetts,

to obtain any addicional infernation conceming the

reported Spanish Language broadcasts which are being

recorded by a member of the JURE delegation at Boston.

SECRET

DocId: 32299323

Page 2

---

