# docid-32308353

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/6/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10294-10211

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-165503-1ST NR 40

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/13/1967

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

FS, AKA, DESCR, EMP, REL, RES, REVOLUTIONARY ACT,

CUBA, PDL, OBA, SABOTAGE, SHIP, MEXICO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32308353

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 110762047N0. 10

MAY JOGG EDITION

SEA FPMR (4 CER) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

1499)

DATE:

19.13397

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (2-192)

SUBJECT

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

Frank Anthony Sturgis

IS - CUBA

00:

MIAMI

83 (Fianime

(dirTing)

SUSH

ON31X3

SSV70

DECI

Declassify on. OADK™

ON

"MIRR, IS - CUBA, NM - CUBA"

Re Bureau airtel dated 6/21/67,

entitled

, Bureau file 97-4174:

Enclosed for the Bureau are 10 copies of a

JIHM dated and captioned as above.

Carpent liting

Copynto MErica I

by gouting slip for

90-0 action

20142

D/info

date

Pursuant to Bureau instructions, copies are

being disseminated locally to INS, and U. S. Secret

service,

Information contained in the predication of

the LAM bearing on the reported plans of the MiRR and

CNNO

to underiake military action against the Cuban Pavilion

at Expo 67, was originally received from New York

Confidential Source WILLIAM SAMPOL.

Service/RA0.150(22212

Force/DIA/Cuctoms /Cuas

State/

Cuban Affairs,

By-

State/CiA/Secrei

Arny/Nave/Air

Coordinator of

Info

2

For

R/S

The confidential source mentioned in LaM

as a personal acquaintance of subject is MM 639-S

MIM T-1 contained in the LAM is CARMELINA BONAFONTE,

Miami (Protect By Request).

MM T-2/is PCI EARL HAWK

105-1052

he confidential source abroad referred to ii

LAM iS Legat Mexico,

who has furnished information

by

letters dated 7/26 and 8/31/67, in the case on "FIORI

ET AL; REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP IN MEXICE

POSSIBLY VERACRUZ"

, Bureau file 105-165503,

Miami

file 105-12890.

105165103-

Background

information

regarding FIORINI

as

reflected

in the IHM

previously submitted

was

extrdetee3 1iom the material

_the

Bureau

in the case file on

/ 2

subject.

EC 50'

ast

EN

Bureau (Enc. 10)*(RM)

— New York (Enc. 1)

JRE

(Info) (R0)

Miami (1 - 2-192)

(1 - 105-2855) (MIRR)

BOCT

4. 1997(1,

30-01

195123890110

(6)

•... 5010-108=01

Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

OCT 16 1907

NIURNATTON CON

HIVED

ANS

TO BLOW UP CUBAN

LAY ANEMICAN

CRIGINAL FILED IN

DocId: 32308353

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 late).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Re:

SEORET

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI

Con

ntial

circumstances prevented execution of this sabotage and he

described the location on the highway between Ciudad

Mante and Ciudad Victoria where the explosives and

the magnets to be used for attaching the explosives

to

the hull of a

ship

were buried.

He also advised

that FIORINI had received a $200 money order from

ORLANDO BOSCH,

sent by BOSCH from Miami to

Ciudad Mante.

As of July 5, 1967, a confidential sourçe.

abroad advised that Mexican authorities had

located the cache of explosives, detonators,

and magnets

on the highway between Mante and Victoria as had

previously been described by RONALD EDWARD THOMPSON,

same source advised that a money order for $200 had been

This

received by FRANK FOURGIS, Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante

On April 13, 1961, sent By One ALDO PEAXANDEZ (SO (RE) 5

When interviewed on May 1, 1967,

FRANK FIORINI

claimed his trip to Mexico in April, 1967, together

with

DONALD ROCHE and his step-son RONNIE THOMPSON,

was

in the nature of a vacation trip. He stated he is

acquainted with Dr ORLANDO BOSCH of the MIRR but denied

he had seen BOSCH in several months:

He denied that

he carried any explosives to Mexico in his 1958

Cadillac, which he used on the trip. He denied that

ORLANDO BOSCH had sent him money to Mexico but said a

Cuban friend had sent him $100,00 from Miami:

On July 24, 1967, ALDO FERNANDEZ,

2000

Northwest 35th Street, Miami, Florida, advised that he is

married to the sister of Dr,

ORLANDO BOSCH.

He denied

acquaintance with FRANK FIORINI,:

also known as

FRANK STURGIS.

He claimed he did not

send $200.00. to FIORINI in Mexico.

SECRET

SEORET

Con

Tạt

105-165503-155 NRyO

DocId: 32308353 Page 3

---

