# docid-32306557

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RÉCORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10197

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-101, 102

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/20/1961

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, GAMBLING ACT; RES, FISUR, INTV,

SZAFRAN, FRANK MRS., TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32306557 Page 1

406

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

1/28/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM: SAC,

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M

GIANCANA, Aka.

AR

WEEKLY SUMMARY

• Re Chicago weekly summary airtel, 1/20/61.

Chicago informants report they have not seen GIANCANA

in the Chicago area during the past week. No activity reported

during week of 1/23/61 from CG 6343-C*

- Чі

Spot surveillances in the vicinity of GIANCANA'S

residence in Oak Park,

Illinois, did not reveal presence of

any cars utilized by GIANCANA.

Pretext calls were unproductive. 4)

CG 3745-C advised on 1/24/61, that the Thunderbolt

Motel (formerly the River Road Motel),

5400 River Road,

Rosemont, Illinois, is utilized frequently by GIANCANA and

his Lieutenants as a meeting place where the monthly take

from gambling operations is apparently tallied. 4)

Records of the Playboy Club, a swank key club at

116 E.Walton Street, Chicago, reflect that Sam Flood, 280}

Sheridan Road, Chicago, is a customer. A notation in

reflects that no correspondence or letters to be sent to FLOOD.

If anything arises, contact VIC LOWNES, LOWNES is one third

owner of the Playboy Club. FLOOD was recommended by DON JO

MADLEVINE, former owner of the Chez Paree.FLDOD is the commonly

used alias of GIANCANA. 2801 Sheridan Road will be checked

out as a possible address of GIANCANA while in Chicago.

RS: 492-3171-

D Do Wick

resear

- Bureaug

Chicago

RRH: hjz

(4)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED:

JAN 30 1967

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 5-34 - B4 BYSPRTE

ARCH

5 VER

Sent

Me. Per

Agent in Charge

NW 45792 DocId: 32306557

Page

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Flev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FBI (92-3171)

FROM: SAC,

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.

AR

GIANCANA, AKa.

FBI

Date: 1/20/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

Re Chicago weekly summary airtel dated 1/13/61.

Contacts with Chicago informants and sources of

information during the week of 1/13-20/61, did not reveal

any positive indication of GIANCANA's presence in the

Chicago area.

Spot fisurs were conducted on 1/15, 1/16,

1/17, and 1/19/61, at GIANCANA's residence and at those

establishments where he is known to frequent(4)

On 1/16/61, PCIL

advised that the

1959 Ford Galaxy utilized by GIANCANA was parked near the

Armory Lounge, however, GIANCANA himself was-not observed.

Informant advised there were numerous other vehicles present

on that date, however, she was unable to obtain license

numbers.

The vehicle

that GIANCANA utilizes as has been

noted in the past, is one which is registered to FRANK

SZAFRAN whose address is given as 616 N. Main Street,

Mt. Prospect, Illinois.(4)

On 1/16/61, Mrs. FRANK SZAFRAN was interviewed

by SA RALPH R. HILL

at 616 N. Main Street, Mt. Prospect,

Illinois, and advised that she has been separated from

- Bureau

Miami (92-170)

1

-

Salt Lake City (92-212)

-

Tampa

1 - Chicago

RRH: P1b

(9)

REG 3 92-3111-101

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

18 JAN 23 1961

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

110 DATE 5-24-34 BY SP5R56

CARCE

5176g wick

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per.

OTHER 4

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45792 DocId: 32306557 Page 3

---

