# docid-32289115

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10391

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-165503-34

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/06/1967

PAGES: 76

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT. PHOTO. PHOTO NE

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

03/16/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC A/T, MEMO, LHM, EXH, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

7/20/67

ANT

airtel

alass

1 - Mr. Nasca

81983-b17

To:

SACS,

Miami (205-12890) (Enclosures poor

WFO. (Enclosures

From:

Director, FBI (105-165503) _ 34

Poxico City (105-6016) noloOD

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et al

CLASSIFIED AND

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP

EXTENDED BY SPE TOYIRHICA

IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

REASON PO

• BIOR

IS - CUBA

FCIM, il, D

NM - CUBA

Classisted foy SPs May mar

DATE C

FEY:

ALL INTO PIT. OU CONTAINED

HERE N IS LICE SSIFIED

• SHOWN

EXCEPT WIE. 12

OTHERWISE

Declassity on: OADRJFK

DECLASSIFICATION

.20.

ReBuairtel 6/27/67 and Mexico City airtel 7/6/67,

copies of which are attached for Miami and WrO.

Attached for each recipient is copy of translation

of report

prepared by Mexican Army, Department of Military

Industry, dealing with the recovery of the various explosives.

in this casé.

ReMexico City airtel indicates on page 2 that the

Director of the Mexican Federal Security Police advised that

the report, the cable, and the photographs could not be used

in evidence; that they were furnished the Mexico City Office

"solely for information;" and that it would not be possible

MAILED 15

1967

JUL 19

to furnish a witness who could describe the explosives recovered

and testify in court. He asked that this data be held in con-

COMMA

plete confidence and outlined the diplomatic procedure to be

followed should it become necessary to have Mexican witnesses testify

in this case in court regarding the above specifics.

On page 3 of re Mexico City airtel, Legat,

Mexico

indicated that upon receipt of the translation of the report

a letterhead memorandum concerning the data received from

Tolson

above-mentioned Mexican official would be prepared. (C

DeLoach .

Mohr .

Wick

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (Route

Through for Review)

Casper

Callahan

Contad.

VHN: jas

Felt

(9)

Gale

Rosen

Classified 20 onery

Sullivan

Утла

Exempt fro

154 JUL 3T 1967

Date of Decisification In defigato

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Classied by Feel/gal

Holmes

Gandy

MAIL ROOM LU

TELE'

ARE WE SECRET LOS

1 Declassify on, CAUR

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 2

---

## Page 3

G928Xa2

SECRET

Airtel to SAC, Miami

Re:

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et al

105-165503

It is not clear to the Bureau from wording in re

Mexico City airtel whether data furnished by Mexican Federal

Security Police can be further disseminated, especially to

the Internal Security Division of the Department which requested

this investigation and to the Department of State with which the

Department of Justice would, by necessity, have to discuss the

case to arrange for appropriate testimony of Mexican witnesses.

It appears that restrictions placed by Mexican Federal Security

Police in furnishing data to Legat, Mexico "solely for information"

was possibly to emphasize the fact

that the data could not be

used as evidence without proper arrangements made through

diplomatic channels (5)@

When the above data (which is definitely most perti-

nent to the current investigation) is submitted in letterhead

memorandum, clarify above in cover pages thereto and specifically

advise what the Internal Security Division of the Department can

be told to assist in gathering evidence and otherwise preparing

its case for possible prosecution.

WFO, as indicated in re Bureau airtel, will determine

from the

Office of Munitions Control whether the explosives

recovered.

list.

by Mexican authorities appear on the Munitions Control

Miami endeavor to further identify Aldo Fernandez

who is mentioned in the roferenced Mexico City artel. (SJU)

Copies of the photographs referred to in the Mexican

Army report are being made and will be furnished Miami and WFO

separately.

All offices handle inquiries in this matter by

atrto1(5) @

NOTE:

Previous information has indicated that subject Fiorini

and others reportedly were involved in plan to bomb ship in Mexico.

In April, 1967, Fiorini and two companions proceeded to Mexico witt

explosives to carry out bombing. Bombing, however, was not carried

out and explosives were buried in Mexico which were recovered by

Mexican authorities based on data furnished by one of the two

individuals who was with Fiorini.

copy of Mexican Army report and forwarded it to Bureau for trans-

lation. Mexico will incorporate the pertinent data in the report

Cont

-2

ntial

SEPPET

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE

1058965503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• 0

Confid

itial SECRET

Airtel to SAC, Miami

Re:

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, et

105-165503

al

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

in memorandum suitable for dissemination. Mexican authorities

also furnished Legat copies of photographs of the recovered

explosives as well as a copy of a cablegram sent from Miami

transmitting $200 to subject Fiorini while he was in Mexico.

This cablegram was sent by Aldo Fernandez,

The facts in this case have been presented to the Internal

to no ate ontarion (5)

Security Division of the Department which has advised there are

possible violations of Title 18, Section 956 (Conspiracy to

injure property of a foreign government) and Title 22, Section

1934 (Unlicensed exportation of munitions). Department has

requested certain additional investigation

which is being

conducted expeditiously.

Contential

- 3

SECKET: 5705-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 4

---

## Page 5

F'D-36 (Riev., 12-13-56)

Cont

Pantial

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO

Date:

'SECRET

July 6, 1967

CSASSIFIED A

(Type in plain text or code)

EXTENDED

REASON

Priority or Method ofdatl

-DECLASSIRGE DE

REC- 107.

FROM

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (105-165503)

Legat,

Mexico City (105-6046)

"CHANGE)

(P)

-, aka..

PACIES

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP

IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

IS - CUBA

•PYROP

Арава.

ATTENTION: CRYPT-TRANS SECTION

Title is being marked "Changed" to add the alias FRANK

FOURGIS,Lby which name the Subject received cabled funds at

Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico• (S

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau is a four-page copy

of a report prepared by the Mexican Army, Department of Military

Industry, concerning the recovery of various explosives,

detonators and other material, at Kilometer 643 and 644 north of

Ciudad Marte, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Also enclosed are 12 copies

of photographs showing

the various material which was recovered

and the location of the recovered items.

Enclosed also is a copy

front and back, of a cablegram transmitting $200 to FRANK FOURGIS

at the Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico.

ANCLOSURD

Re Bureau airtel to Miami dated 6/27/67•

On

7/5/67

(protect as a

OTHER 4 Foreign

confidential source abroad); Director, Direccion Federal de

Seguridad (Mexican Federal Security Police - DFS) made avail-

which was prepared by the

Вите и (Вис. -14)99049003

REC-

(1 - Liaison-Section)

(2 - Miami, =10512890)

PLO 5 165503-34

82 - Washington

adl - Mexico City

3611967

G.

EDR: 2K°!!

5n06h.el

11125

COPY AND SPECIENS RETAINED IN LAI

ME ILEES LINFOR LAB. ACTION-AND ESPORT

Do

SIBL

RICAN

HiPer —

SECRETO

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Cor

antial

SECRET

MEX 105-6046

OTHER 4 Foreign

Mexican Army, Department of Military Industry, which relates

the events of the discovery of the explosives that the Subject

buried near Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico, their recovery

and their description.

also made available

twelve photographs which

in with the report, showing what

was recovered and where.

According to this

report, one bomb with a double

explosive charge,

which was wrapped in an innertube, was recovered

(see photographs #3 and #4); four magnets wrapped in an innertube

were recovered (see photographs #5 and #6), and the detonators

which were recovered were wrapped in plastic (see photograph

#7).

The remains of an explosive charge was recovered and it

was believed that this was set off by accident by farmers in the

area.

Some explosive material

was recovered.

Fragments of a

container, a plastic tube, factory tags, remains of newspapers,

atso recoveled la, and fragments of a Mesh plastic cloth were

also recovered (see photograph #9) •

also made available a copy of a cable which

transmitted 2,498 Mexican pesos ($200 U•S.) to FRANK FOURGIS,

Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico, which appears

to have been sent by one

ALDO FERNANDEZ.

This money was received

by FOURGIS and signed for by him

at Ciudad Mante on April 13, 1967

advised that the report, the copy of the cable,

and the photographs

could not be used in evidence and were

transported to the Mexico City Office solely for information.

He said at this point it would not be possible to furnish a

witness who could describe the explosives recovered and testify

in a court of law in the U. S. He asked that this information

be held in complete confidence and advised should it become

necessary for the explosives recovered to be utilized in a court

of law in the United States, and a Mexican witness furnished who

could testify to the recovery of this material and another witness

ever no

who could testify regarding the receipt of the money by the

Subject in Ciudad Mante, it would be necessary to go officially

through official channels diplomatically with the Department of

Justice requesting the Department of State to arrange for this,

commencing at the Secretariat of Government in Mexico City

OTHER 4 Foreign

OTHER 4 Foreign

SECRET

7055-165

3-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 6

---

## Page 7

8. 0

Confide

itias

SECRET

MEX 105-6046

It is requested that the report, which is in some

detail, be translated at the Bureau and the translation be

furnished to the Mexico City Office and at that time a

etterhead_memorandum concerning the material received from

of DFS will be prepared.

(5)

OTHER 4 Foreign

= Зú

SECRET

Confidential

90695=145503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Classified is

Declassify

SÉCRETI

TRANSLATION FROM

33.81

SPANISH

Department of Military Industry

CLASSIPIED AND

EXTENDED

SP 3 TER AH

Subject: Report on Assignment

REASON

FCIM, I,

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

DATE OF

DECLASS

5819

To: Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

Permit me to inform you on the results of the assignment

given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos Del Moral at Ciudad Mante

Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967.

I. Background Information.

As is already known,

the Secretary of the Government,

through the (Mexican) Federal Security Police (D.F.S.), requested

the cooperation of the technical personnel of this Department in

the finding, identifying and destruction of some "bombs," detonators

and other devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at a spot

near the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers 643 and 644.

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the Explosives Were

Found.

As a result of the above request, the undersigned and

Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of the D.F.S., went

immediately to Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, and arrived at said

plaza at 3:20 A. M., May 8, 1967.

On the same day, at 8:00 A. M., we went to the indicated

for the purpose of determining

the spot where the explosives had been buried.

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in finding the

exact spot where the explosives had been buried,

in a promontory

bordering the left side of the road and approximately 15 meters

from the road, between kilometers 642 and 643.

The location is

shown on Photographs No. 1 and 2. Classified by

Examst. from

Category,

In the above-mentioned

25 meters, we unearthed the following:

TRANSLATED BY:

THOMAS MC LAUGHLIN: spcop

July 12, 1967 SECRET.

1c Bee

and

стра

beat 5 503.-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Confidential

1) A "bomb" or a double

explosive charge, wrapped

in sections of a tire inner tube, and fastened by adhesive tape.

Photographs 3 and 4.

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled spools

especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each of the explosive

charges to metallic parts.

Photographs 5 and 6.

The magnets,

like the charges, were found wrapped in sections of an inner tube.

3) The detonators for the explosive charges. These

were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph No. 7

4) The remnants of an explosive charge. It is

thought that farmers in the area accidently discovered it and;

in attempting to see its contents, destroyed it completely.

Photo-

Of these remnants, the following were recovered

separately:

a) The explosive material.

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the explosive,

remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood and pieces of a mesh,

plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9.

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material. Visual

Examination.

Once all the items in the area had been unearthed, we

proceeded to examine them in detail in order to attempt to identify

them and ascertain as to what condition they were in so as to

destroy them, should conditions warrant it.

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in shape with

the following approximate dimensions:

30 x 20 x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of explosive covered with a solid,

putty-like plastic material, the entire surface of which is. i

covered with black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found. These

of the same diameter and approximately 15 centimeters long.

pipes are located inside the explosive charge and serve! as a

lodging for the detonators. Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters

in diameter and 10 centimeters long extend along the longitudinal

axis of the charge. They have screwe at the ends which serve to

fasten them to the spools.

ConSential

-2 - .

SECRET

105-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Scotial.

SECRET

The explosive inside is white in color and plastic-like

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

It will

be necessary

to conduct analyses to determine its class and

type.

It was ascertained that the explosive charge was not

assembled and ready for detonation, since it did not contain the

proper elements for starting, propagating and amplifying the

detonation. (Photgrapel to 1o

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them, and they

consist of spools of approximately 3 x 2 x 1 inches, containing

metallic plates fastened by bolts. Each oi

thesé plates has/bore hole into which the small rods used to hol

the charge are placed. On the side opposite that containing the

bore hole, there is a metallic plate whose function is to serve as

the surface which is connected by the magnet

to any metallic

surface.

Photograph No. 11•

Detonators - The detonators are of the percussion type

and apparently are activated by an electric current.

They have

an approximate length of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8

millimeters.

They are composed of a percussion mechanism, a safety

and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12.,

Because of the condition in which they were found and

because they were found to be safe for handling and transportation,

they were not destroyed.

V.

Transportationof the Explosives and Their Delivery to

the D.F.S.

The explosives, (complete charge and recovered remnants)

detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped and packed, were brought

to this city on the afternoon of the 4th and were handed over to

the Federal Security Police on the morning of May 5, 1967. Latex,

at 11:30 A. M. on the same day, they were sent to a powder magazine

at the explosives plant, after

having first been examined by the

Director of the D.F.S.

The explosives are

now at the disposal of

the proper authorities.

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for information

purposes.

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ illegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

Dona

ntial

SECRET

105-165503-34

- 3-

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 10

---

## Page 11

confident1a =CRET

Enclosed along with the above statement were

the 12

referenced photographs, plus a copy of a cablegram sent from

Miami, Florida, transmitting 2,498 Mexican pesos ($200

in U. S.

currency) to Frank Fourgis, Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas,

México.

The money was recelved

Land signed for by a Frank Fourgis,

at Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico, April 13, 1961(

Conf

tential

SECRET

4

105-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

4.11-94

Classified by

Declassify

OR:

BADR

Seclassify on: OAĐ

Classified by

Cited to mo-ENC

WEO

ENC

-

Fare

UNN: JAS

ConfIdential

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

Department of Military Industry

Subject: Report on Assignment

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

To: Commanding General of the D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

Permit me to inform you on the results of the assignment

given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos Del Moral at Ciudad Mante

Tamaulipas Plaza, May 2, 1967.

I. Background Information.

As is already known, the Secretary of the Government,

through the (Mexican) Federal

Security Police (D.F.S.), requested

the cooperation of the technical personnel of this Department in

the finding, identifying and destruction of some "bombs," detonators

and other devices which,

according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at a spot

near the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometers 643 and 644.

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the Explosives Were

Found.

As a result of the above request, the undersigned and

Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of the D.F.S., went

phaed ate 3:20 Auda Want, 1960.

Tamaulipas, and arrived at said

On the same day, at 8:00 A. M., we went to the indicated

spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the purpose of determining •

the indicated zone where, according to the information, was located

the spot where the explosives had been buried.

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in finding the

exact spot where the explosives had been buried, in a promontory

bordering the left side of the road and approximately 15 meters

from the road, between kilometers 642 and 643. The location is

shown on Photographs No. 1 and 2.

III. Location of the Explosives.

In the above-mentioned area, in a zone no larger than

25 meters, we unearthed the following:

Classified by 2440

Exemat frni

GD6 Category. V

16

/83 Confida

5m

:: 105-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Con

ntial

Marant

1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge, wrapped

in sections of a tire inner tube, and fastened by adhesive tape.

Photographs

and 4.

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled spools

especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each of the explosive

charges to metallic parts.

Photographs 5 and 6.

The magnets,

like the charges, were found wrapped in sections of an inner tube.

3) The detonators for the explosive charges. These

were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph No. 7

4) The remnants of an explosive charge.

It is

thought that farmers in the area accidently discovered it and,

in attempting to see its contents, destroyed it completely.

Photot

graph No. 8.

Of these remnants, the following were recovered

separately:

a) The explosive material.

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the explosive,

remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood and pieces of a mesh,

plastic cloth.

Photograph No. 9.

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material. Visual

Examination.'

Once all the items in the area had been unearted, we

proceeded to examine them in detail in order to attempt to identify

them and ascertain as to what condition they were in so as to

destroy them, should conditions warrant it.

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in shape with

the following approximate dimensions: 30 x 20 x 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of explosive covered with a solid

putty-like, plastic material, the entire surface of which is?

covered with black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found. These

fastened separately by a screw to lengths of galvanized iron pipe

of the same diameter and approximately 15 centimeters long. The

pipes are located inside the explosive charge and serve:

lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters

in diameter and 10 centimeters long extend along the longitudinal

axis of the charge. They have screws at the ends which serve to

fasten them to the

spools.

GENT

Conf

t1 SECRET

- 2

-

18516550334

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 13

---

## Page 14

dential

SECRET

The explosive inside

is white in color and plastic-like.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

It will be necessary

to conduct analyses to determine its class and type.

It was ascertained that the

explosive charge was not

assembled and ready for detonation, since it did not contain the

proper elements for starting, propagating and amplifying the

detonation.

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them, and they

consist of spools of approximately 3 x 2 x l inches, containing

at their ends two

the charge are placed. On the side opposite that containing the

bore hole, there is a

metallic plate whose function is to serve as

the surface which is connected by the magnet to any metallic

surface. Photograph No. 11.

Detonators - The detonators are of the percussion type

and apparently are activated by an electric current.

They have

an approximate length of 25 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8

millimeters.

They are composed of a percussion mechanism, a safety

and an explosive charge.

Photograph No. 12.

Because of the condition in which they were found and

because they were found to be safe for handling and transportation,

they were not destroyed.

V. Transportationof the Explosives and Their Delivery to

the D.F.S.

The explosives, (complete charge and recovered remnants),

detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped and packed, were brought

to this city on the afternoon of the. 4th and were handed over to

the Federal Security Police on the morning of May

5, 1967.

Later,

at 11:30 A. M. on the same day, they were sent to a powder magazine

at the explosives plant, after having first been examined by the

Director of the D.F.S. The explosives are now at the disposal of

the proper authorities.

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for information

purposes.

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ illegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

SECRET

it 18)

-

105-165583-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

ntial

Enclosed along with the above statement were

the 12

referenced photographs, plus a copy of a cablegram sent from

Miami, Florida, transmitting 2,498 Mexican pesos ($200 in U. •

currency) to Frank Fourgis,

Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas,

Mexico.

The money was received and signed for by a

Frank Fourgis,

at Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, Mexico, April 13, 1967 (J

+;

„SECRET!

- 4-

105-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 15

---

## Page 16

ConfidentIal

SECRET

PRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

Departmont of Military Industry

Subject: Roport .on Assignment

GLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED DA SENTEN eNIOR 311439

#FASON

To:

Commanding General of the

D.E.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

Permit me to inforn you on the results of the assignment

given to me and Captain Antonio Olmos Del Moral at Cludad Mante

Tanaulipas Plaza, May %, 1967.

1. Background Information.

As is already known, the Secrotary of the Government,

through the (Mesican) Federal Security Police

(D.F.S.), requested

the cooperation of the technical personnel of this Department in

the finding, Identifying and destruction of some "bombs," detonators

and other devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at a spot

near the lante-C. Victoria road, between kiloneters 643 and 644.

II.

Location of the Zone and Spot Where the Explosives Were

Found.

As a result of the above request, the undersigned and

Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of the D.F.S., went

Innediately to Cludad lante, Tamaulipas, and arrivod at said 3

plaza at 3:20 A. M., Bay 8, 1967.

On the same day, at 8:00 A. M., we went to the indicated

the spot where the explosives had been burted.

Sps

Gaste by.

Declassify

ОЛО

At the end o2 lour hours, we succeeded in finding the

exact spot where

the explosives had been burted, in a promontory

bordering the

left side of the road and approximately 15 meters

fron the road, between kilometers 648 and 643.

The location 1e

shown on Photographs No. 1 and 2.

IIl. Location of the Explosives.

In the above-mentioned area,

in a zone no larger than

25 (meters, we unearthed the following:

Classified by

WarV

acl

Classified by s

105-165503-34

Exempt from

Longer ovu

Declassify on: OADR &

16/63

5900-10::

ConeLdentias

so Parate

Ims mp 93: SECRET

NW

45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Confidential

ISECRET

1) A "bomb" or a deuble ezplosive charge,

wrapped

in sections of a tire inner tube, and fastened by adhesive tape.

Photographs 3 and 4.

2) Four magnets, consisting of collod spools

espectally positioned, in pairs, to fasten each of the explosive

charges to metallic parts.

Photographs 5 and 6.

The magnets,

like the charges, were found whapped in sections of an inner tube.

3) The detonators for the explosive charges. These

were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph No. Y

4) The remnants of an explosive charge.

thought that farmers in the area accidently discovered it and,

in attempting to see its contents, destroyed it completely.

Photo-

graph No. 8.

Of those remnants, the following were recovered

separately:

a) The explosive material.

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastie

tape, labels from the factory uhich manufactured the explosive,

renains of newspapers, pieces of plywood and pieces of a mesh,

plastic cloth. Photograph No. P.

IV. Identification of the Explosive laterial.. Visual

Examination.

once all the itens in the area had been unearthed, we

proceeded to examine them in detail in order to attenpt to identi

them and ascertain as to what condition they were in so as to

destroy then, should conditions warrant 1t.

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in shape uith.

the following approximate dimensions:

30 x 20 ≤ 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of explosive covered uith a solid,

putty-like plastic material, the entire surface of which is

covered with black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

fastened separatoly by a sorow to lengths of galvanized iron pipe

of the same diameter and apyronimately 15 centimetere long.

pipes are located inside the explosive charge and serves as a

lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millineters

In diametor and 10 centimeters long eztend along the longitudinal

axis of the charge. They have screws at the ends which serve to

lasten then to the spools.

Lop*

•2 -

tential SECRET:

7055/62,

03-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Confidential

The explosive inside is white in color and plastic like.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown. It will be necessary

to conduct analyses to desermine its class and type.

It was ascertained that

the explosive charge was not

assembled and ready fox detonation, since it did not contain the

proper elements for starting, propagating and amplilying the

detonation.

b) Spools-magnets - There are four of them, and they

consist of spools of approximately 3 x 2 & 1 inches, containing

at theiz enca ivo

the charge are placed.

On the side opposite that containing the

bore hole, there is a metallic plate whose function is to serve as

the surfaco which is connected by the magnet to any metallie

surface. Photograph No. 1l.

Detonators - The detonators are of the percussion type

and apparently are activated by an electric current.

They have

an approximate length of 35 centimeters and a diameter of 7 to 8

millimeters.

They are composed of a percussion mechanism, a safety

and an explosive charge.

Photograph No. 12.

Because of the condition in which they were found and

because they were found to be safe for handling and transportation,

they were not destroyed.

Transportationo? the Explosives and Their Delivery to

the D.F.8.

The explosives, (complete charge and recovered remnants),

detonators and nagnets, perfectly wrapped and packed, were brought

to this elty on the afternoon of the 4th and were handed over to

the Federal Security Police on the morning of May 5, 1967. Later,

at 11:30 A.M. on the same day, they were sent to a powder magazine

at the explosives plant, after having first been examined by the

Director of the D.P.S.

The explosives are now at the disposal of

the proper authorities.

Attached herewith aro 12 photographs for information

purposes.

SECRET

Confidential

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-electior

Is/ 1llegible

Jose

• Maria Navarro

Barquero

(859458)

105-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Enclosed along with the above statement were the 18

referenced photographs, pius a copy of a cablegram sent from

Miant, Florida, transmitting 24431 Mexican pesos ($200 km U. S.

currency) to Frank Fourgis, Hotel Mante, Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas,

Mexico.

The money was received and signed for by a frank

Fourgis,

at Ciudad innte, Fanaulipas, Mexico, Apr1i 19, 1967°

Cont

tential

anal

SECRET

4..7

1057165503+34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Conf 1)

ent j.al.

SECRET

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

Department of Military Industry

CLASSIFIED

EXTENDE

Subject: Report on Assignent

SECRET

THRICES

REASON

FCIM, y, i

Tecamachalco, Mexico City, May 8, 1967

DATE OF F.

DEBLASSIFICASION.

To:

Commanding General of the D.B.M. Brigade

Chief of the Department of Military Industry

Pormit me to inform you on the results of the assignment

given to ne and Captain Antonio Olmos Del Moral at Cludad Mante

Tamaulipas Plaza, May &, 1967.

X. Background Information.

As is already known, the Secretary of the Government,

through the (Mexican) Federal Security Police (D.F.S.), requested

the cooperation of the technical personnel of this Department in

the finding, identifying and destruction of some "bonbs," detonators

and other devices which, according to information obtained by the

D.F.S., had been brought into the country and buried at a spot

neax the Mante-C. Victoria road, between kilometere 643 and 644.

II. Location of the Zone and Spot Where the Explosives Were

Found.

As a result of the above request, the undersigned and

Captain Olmos, accompanied by two agents of the D.F.S., went

immediately to Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, and arrivod at said

plaza at 3:20 A. M., May B, 1967.

On the same day, at 8:00 A. M., we went to the indicated

spot, between kilometers 643 and 644, for the purpose of determining

indicated zone where, necording to the information, was locatec

the spot where the explosives had been buried.

4-11-94

Classifed by SeS

CADR

CR:

Declassify

At the end of four hours, we succeeded in finding the

exact spot where the explosives had been buried, in a promontory

bordering the left side of the road and approximately 15 meters

from the road, between kilometers 648 and 643. The location is

shown on Photographs No. 1 and 2.

III. Location of the Explosives.

In the above-mentioned area, in a zone no larger than

25 noters, we unearthed the following:

SECRET

Classified ba 20401

Classified by

рескас

Exemat from GOS/C-fegory

Declassify on:

AOR 6/ 16/53

Date of Declassifigatian Indefinate

Pora d12 don as pud its m P83

05-16550334

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 20

---

## Page 21

1) A "bomb" or a double explosive charge, wrapped

in sections of a tire inner tube, and fastened by adhesive tape.

Photographs 3 and 4.

2) Four magnets, consisting of coiled spoole

especially positioned, in pairs, to fasten each of the explosive

charges to metallic parts.

Photographs 5 and 6.

The magnets,

like the charges, were found wrapped in sections of an inner tube.

3) The detonators for the esplosive charges. These

were found wrapped in a plastic bag. Photograph No. 7

4) The sennants of an explosive charge.

It is

thought that farmers in the area accidently iiscovered it

in attempting to see

and,

its contents, destroyed it complotely. Photo-

graph No. 8.

Of these remnants, the following were recovered

separately:

a) The explosive material.

b) Fragments of a container, a blue plastic

tape, labels from the factory which manufactured the explosive,

remains of newspapers, pieces of plywood and pieces of a mesh,

plastic cloth. Photograph No. 9.

IV. Identification of the Explosive Material. Visual

Exanination.

Once all the items in the area had been unearthea, we

proceeded to examine them in detail in order to attempt to identifs

them and ascertain as to what condition they were in so as to

destroy them, should conditions warrant it.

a) The Explosive Charge - Rectangular in shape with

the following approximate dimensions:

30 # 20 & 7 centimeters.

The charge consists of a block of explosive covered with a solid,

putty-like, plastic material, the entire surface of which is

covered with black insulation tape.

At one of its edges, 2 plugs

for an iron pipe of 3/4 inch diameter were found.

fastened separately by a serow to lengths of galvanized iron pipe

of the same diameter and approximately 15 centimeters long.

pipes are located inside the explosive charge and serves as a

lodging for the detonators.

Two metallic rods of 7 millimeters

in diameter and 10 centimeters long extend along the longitudinal

axis of the charge.. They have screws at the ends which serve to

fasten then to the spools.

Conf j

• 2 -

ont!?' SECRE!

1059165509334

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Confidential

SECRET

The explosive inside is white in color and plastic-like.

Its characteristics and potency are unknown.

It will be necessary

to conduct analyses to determine its class and type.

It was ascertained that the explosive charge was not

assembled and ready for detonation, since it did not contain the

proper elements for starting, propagating and amplifying the

detonation.

b) Spools magnots • There are lour of them, and they

consist of spools of approzimately 3 x 2 & 1 inches, containing

the charge are placed. On the side opposite that containing the

bore hole, there is a metallic plate vhose function is to serve as

the surface which is connected by the magnet to any metallic

Detonators - The detonators are of the percussion type

and apparently are activated by an electrte current.

They have

an approximate length of 35 centimeters and a diameter of y to 8

millimeters®

They are composed of a percussion mechanism, a safety

and an explosive charge. Photograph No. 12.

Because of the condition in which they were found and

because they were found to be safe for handling and transportation,

they were not destroyed.

V. Transportational the Explosives and Their Dalivery to

the D.F. S.

The explosives, (complete charge and recovered remnants),

detonators and magnets, perfectly wrapped and packed, were brought

to this city on the afternoon of the 4th and were handed over to.

the Tederal Security Police on the morning of May 5, 1967.

Later,

at 11:30 A. M. on the same day, they vere sent to a powder magazine

at the explosives plant, after

having first been examined by the

Director of the D.F.S.

The explosives are now at the disposal of

the proper authorities.

Attached herewith are 12 photographs for information

purposes:

SECRET!

Respectfully,

Effective Suffrage, No Re-election

/s/ 1llegible

Jose Maria Navarro Barquero

(259458)

Confidential

• 3

165016-55

08-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 22

---

## Page 23

3. 0

Conf sentia),

SECRET

DILA

enclosed mens,with the above statement were the 12

referenced photograph hailus a copy of a cablegram sent from

Miami, Florida, transmitting 2,493 Mexican pesos (8200 in U. &.

currency) to Frank: Fourgis, Hotel Mante, Cludad Mante, Tamaulipas,

Mexico.

The money was received and signed for by a Frank Fourgis,

at Ciudad Manto, Tamaulipas, Mexico, April 13, 1967

Conf ia

eat SECRET

4-

No: 11055165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 23

---

## Page 24

UNITED STATES DEPAETMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

, File No.

TASHLNGTON 25, DSECRET

May 31, 196%

Coneident1a1

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al.

CLASSTFIED AND

This document contoins neither

« CASOR

FCIM, I

DATE

DECLASSIFICATION.

the FBi. It is the property of

the FBl and is locna: to your agency;

it and its contents are not io be

22192 distributed outside your agency.

4-1-94 sp& Macude

Classified by

Declassify on: CADR JFIL

On May 25, 190%, T-1, a conficential source abroza,

reported

that the explosives which had been buried by florini

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas,

Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City. Source

advised that while it might be possible to have a competent

witness, leither fron the Mexican army or from the Direccior

Federal

de Seguridad (DIS - Federal Security Police) produce

the explosives in a court of law in the United States,

the

matter was

politically sensitive and no decision had been

reached.

[5]

On

May 31, 1907, T-I advised that if the United

to have the explosives produced by

a competent witness, the United States Departnent of Justice

should prepare a fornal request for presentation through the

Department of State to the Mexican Ministry

tions.

T-1 indicated that there was a good possibilty that

such

a request would ba favorably received.

(SU)

$355

GDS Caterary.

Date of D

classification Indefinate

6-10-71.

APPROPRIATR AGENCIES

AND FTETA OFFICES

ADUTTED R

• ST TP(S),

DATE

Group 1

Ezcluded fron

autonatic

downgrading and

classification

Classified I

1*

Declassil:

Conf

isential

SECRETI

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 24

6/16/83

185165503-34

---

## Page 25

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPERTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAT OF INVESTIGATION.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

May 31, 1967

SECRET

SECRET

Conti

t1a1

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al.

This document coniains neither

se mmendations nor conclusions of

it #BI. It is the property of

me: 0f and is looned to your crensyl

it cind its contents are not to ba

distribüted outside your agensy,

Declassily on: DABR /JFL

On May 25, 195%, T-1, a confidential source abroad,

reported that the explosives which had been buried by FIORINI-

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas,

Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City. Source

advised that while it might be possible to have a competent

witness, either fron the Mexican arny or fron the Dareccioi

Federal

ie Seguridad (DFS - Federal Security Police produce LS=

the explosives in a court of law in the United States,

matter was politically sensitive and no decision had been

reached.

May 31, 1957, I-l advised that if the United

states Government desires' to have the explosives produced cy

a competent witness, the United States Departnent of Justice

should prepare a lornal recuest for presentation through the

Departnent of State to the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Rela-

tions.

T-l indicated that there was a good possibility that

such a request would be favorably received. (Sl

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY

SP.

REASON

FC:M, I,

DATE OF MEDEW POI

DECLASSIFICATION.

SECRET

Classising hu 2046

Exempt from

GOS C-egorT

Date of Declas

ification Indelin

-10-11

513172-

GIgap

• 1

Excluded, 1

on autonatic"

cowngrading and.

declassification

SECRET

1*

Confidestial

Classifind !

Declasse

p3 de/ecl

NOR 6N/83

105-1605503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 25

---

## Page 26

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNTIED STATES DEPAREMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

$1.

WASHINGTON 25,D. C.

May 31, 1957

SECRET

SECECI

Mdential

FRAIK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al.

This document coniains nelther

recommendations nor condiuston: gf

the FBi. It is the property of

the FBl and is looned to your oregy!

i end its contents are not i9 be

disumbuted outside your agency:

Chased by SP& May wade

Declassily on: 043R 5FK)

Oi May 25, 196%, T-1, a confidential source abroad,

reported that the explosives which had been buried by FIORINI

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas,

Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City. Source

advised

that while it might be possible to have a

competent (5]

witness, Leither fron the Mexican Arny or fron the Direccion

Federal

de Seguridad (DFS - Federal Security Police) produce

the explosives in a court of law in the United States,

the

matter

was

politically sensitive and no cecision had been

reached.

on May 31, 1967, I-I advised that if the United

States Government desires

to have the explosives producec by

a competent witness, the United States Department of Justice

should prepare a formal request for presentation through the

Department of State to the Mexican

Ministry

01 Foreign Rela-

tions.

T-l indicated that there was a good

such & request would be favorably received.

(84b224ty that

CLASSIFED AND

TEASON

FSIM, I1,

DATE OF

SENEW FOR

DECLASSIRICAION

SECRET

Classified by Jovo

Exempt from GDS Coregory.

Date of Declassification indefinate

6-10-11

5130193

Excluded

coungrading ap

ron

autona tic

declassification

Glassifin In

Declassily Ju

ICECRET

1*

Concernsial

105-165503-349

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 26

---

## Page 27

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNTIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON is. D.C.

May 31, 1967

SECRET

ECRET

Confidential

FRAIK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the properiy of

the FBl and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contenis are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

On May 25, 1957, T-I, a conficential source abroza,

reported that the explosives which had been curied by riorin

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City.

advised that while it night be possible to have a competent

witness, leither frow the Mexican Arny or fron the Direccion

i(5)

se seguridad (DIS - Federal Security Police) produce

the explosives in a court of law in the United States,

matter was

politically sensitive and no cecision had beer

reached.

On

May 31, 1967; I-1 advised that if the United

States Government desires to have the explosives produced

competent witness, the United States Departnent of Justice

should prepare a tornal request for presentation through the

Departnent of State co the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Rela-

232221823

tions. T-l indicated that there was a good

possibility that

such & request would he favorably recelvad.(s(u)

SECRET

CLASSIPED AND

EXTENDER

BY

5Р 3 тЕкленісА)

3116/19

i SASON

F

SION

FCIRA, HI,

DATE OF

DECLASSIFICATION.

assified by.

po category.

-10-71

argup

• 1

-Preluded

oin automatic

downgradias aunt

declassification

Classin" My

SECRET

1*

Confidentiai

зисра

Declassi; un:

CADR 6/16/83

185-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 27

---

## Page 28

UN. TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No..

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

May 31, 1987

CLASSTFIED AND

REASON

FCIM, I.

DATE OF

DECLASSIFICA)ION

SECR

Confident

1al

FRAIK ANGELO FIOPINI,

et al.

4•1144

Cassited SPEMaude

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

Pericale

the FBI. li is the property of

the Fll and is locned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

On May 25, 1957, I-1, a confidential source abroad,

reported that the explosives which had been buried by FIORINI

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas,

Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City. Source

competent

de Seguridad (OPS - Federal Security Police) produce

the explosives in a court of law in the United states,

the

matter

• was politically sensitive and no decision had been

reached.

On May 31, 1997, T-I advised that if the United

States Governnent desires

to have the explosives

i produced by

& competent witness, the United States Departnent of Justice

should prepare a formal request for presentation through the

Department of State to the Mezican Ministry

• 01 Foreign Rela-

tions. T-l indicated that there vas a good

possibility that

such a request would be favorably recelvad. (gA

2116/29

SECRET

Classified by

Exempt from

310y0

GDS Category,,

Date of Declassification indefinate

99416-10-77

бир ї

5001182

Pr. Arcluded

rom autonatic

congrading ant

Hoclassification

Classifier! hu

17

Cone dent lal

Declassify on:

LADR 6/16/83

SECRET

105-165503-34

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 28

---

## Page 29

UNTIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JESTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

May 31, 1967

EER

Conf tential

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBi. li is the properly of

the FBl and is locner to your agency;

it and its contents are not lo be

distributed outside your agency.,

4-11-94

Casted by 506 Moe ade

Declassify on: WADR SEK

On May 25, 1957, I-1, a confidential source abroad,

reported that the explosives which had been buried by FIORINI

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas,

Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City. source

advised that while it might be possible to have a

competent

witness, either fron the Mexican Arny or fron' the Direccion

de Seguridad (DIS - Federal Security Police) produce

[5)

politically sensitive and no cecision had been

reached.

May 31, 1937, T-l advised that if the United

States Governnent desires

to have the explosives produced

a competent witness, the United States Department of Justice

shoula prepare a formal request for presentation through the

Department of State to the Mexican Ministr

of Foreign. Rela-

tions.

I-1 indicated that there was a good

possibility that

such a request would be favorably received.

STURET

CLASSINED

MID

EXTENDE

REASON

FCIM, W

DATE C

Fuk

DECLASSIFICALON

Claccified ty 7040

ns Catacorvi

•Exempt fron

Date of Declassification Indefin

16-10.17

-*•

Group I

53192. Excluded

on autonatic

downgrading and

declassification

105165503-34

1*

Classified hy

Bile lice

SECRETI

Declassity on:

ONOR

68/16/83

105-4651

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 29

---

## Page 30

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UiTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

May 31, 1967

SECRET

Confident 141

FRUITK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al.:

This document contains neither

recummendalions nor con:lusions of

the FBi. I is the progeriy of

the FBl cind is logred to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

411-94

Gassified by 5V8 Maypue

Declassily on: ONDRJPK

01 May 25, 195%, I-1, a confidential source abroad,

reported that the explosives which had been buried by FIORINI

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican hrmy at Mexico City., Source

Federal de seguridad (DIS - Federal Security Police) produce

the explosives in a court of law in the United States,

matter vas politically sensitive and no decision had been

reached

On May 31, 1907, T-1 advised that it the United

States Government desires

to have the explosives produced by

a competent witness, the United States Departnent of Justice

cions. I-l indicated that there was a good possibility that.

such & request would be favorably recelved. (So u)

SECRET

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED

CRASON FO

clissified by 20 40

Exempt frem 8DS Category, I

Date of Decassification Indefinate

4N-10-11

DATE OF

DECLASSIFICATIEN

Excluded

cowngrading and

1

automatic

declassification

Clas: "*;

1*

Cenfi

dential

Decha:

105-165503-34

23 Cla

tiel

WADR

6:1/6/83503

SECRETI

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 30

---

## Page 31

UviTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

• ki

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

May 31,, 1967

SECRET

ECRE

Cock dential

FRAIK ANGELO FIORINI,

et al!

41194

This document contains neither

Gassies b, SP 8 manude

recommendations ner conclusions of

Palesty on: 1833(5P2)

the FBi. l is the properiy of

the Fli ons is lacned to your agency;

it and its contents are not. to be

distributed outside your agency.

On May 25, 195%, I-1, a confidential source abroad,

reported that the explosives which had been buried by FIORINI

and his companions in the state of Tamaulipas, Mexico, are

in the custody of the Mexican Army at Mexico City.

Source

advised

that while it might be possible to have a competent

Witness, either lion the Mexican Army or fron the DireccionkS.

Federal de Seguridad (DIS - Federal Security Police) produce

che explosives in a court of law in the United States,

matter was politically sensitive and no decision had been

reached.

On

May 31, 1957, I-I advised that 1f the Unitec

States Governnent desires to have the explosives producec

a competent witness, the United States Departnent of Justice

should prepare a formal request lor presentation through the

Department of State to the Mexican Ministry

of Foreign Rela-

tiong.

T-1 indicated that there was a good

such a request would be favorably received.

(81% 21t) shat

7116189

SECRET

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY

REASON

FCIM, lI, 1

DATE OF

•DECLASSIFICANON

Classified by

рочь

Exempt from

Category. /

319)

= Included

Autonatic

Date of Declassification Indefinate

10016-10-11

congrading and declassilication

105-165503-34

SECRET!

Confidential

Classif:

Declassa;

6/16/83

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Conf

SECRETOS?

tial

SECUNDIN

FORMA DOTN:

TOLOCRACOS

DACIONALOS

SECRETARIA DE COMUNICACIONES Y TRANSPORTES

DIRECCION GENERAL DE TELEGRAFOS NACIONALES

SERVICIO DE GIROS

33 TRES CERO TRES TNIRCACLENES TUSBERVICIO

Pin'terlador

de la Oficins

MIAMI FLO VIA MEX DF 1825 12/13 A5 D

21.C3 SIETE TRES CINCO

FRAN FOURGISS

4-11-94

HOTEL MANTE

Classitad 1

588 may mide

C MANTE TAM 3704

Declassify on: DADR

(JFK)

5 2.49:3.00. DOS MIL CUATROCIENTOS NOVETTÀ

Y CCHO PS

DOLARES 200 TIPO 12.49

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDEO RY

REASON F

SP3 TEK/R4|00 2/16/08

FCIM, II,

ALDO FERNANDEZ

DATE D

F.

DECKASSIFICATION

4/13199

ANTES DE VEnIr

TI. COBRO. CONTES; DOD ESTA LINE.

FERIOR

SECRET congradatia

Classified by

Declassily

8 4/1

603

SECRET

Y83

4

3

TOLOCRAPOS

SECRETARIA DE COMUNICACIONES Y TRANSPORTES

DIRECCION GENERAL DE TELEGRAFOS NACIONALES

SERVICIO DE GIROS

33 TPES CERO TRES

Pin I'rcliador

de la Orientes

MIAMI FLO VIA MEX DE 1825 12/13 AE $ 21.C3 SIETE

TRES CINGO ST

FRANK FOURGIS

4-11-94

HOTEL MANTE

Classite y SP8-Mae/uds

Classified by

Вр3 ск/дс

C MANTE. TAM 3704

Declassily en: BADR (GFK)

Declassity on: OADR6/12/53

$ 2.493.00 DOS MIL CUATROCIENTOS NOVENTÀ Y OCHO PS

DOLARES 200 TIFO 12.49

CLASSIFIED AND

ALDO FERNANDEZ

REASON

FCIM 1, 1

DATE OF REVIE

DECLASSIFICATION

FOR

alelas 7

ANTES DE VARMO. MI, COBRO. CODIE

ALINE

Nw 45701 DogId: 32289115

Page 32

denps Antial

EN SECRET

"FERIOR

---

## Page 33

0U3X

083X

Confia

Lal

SECREL

IMPORTA

NTE AL PUBLICO

1.-Para el cobro de este giro es indispensable que el interesado se identifique a satisfacción de

de 19.67.

la Oficina pagadora, • presente lirma de conocimiento previamente registrada en la misma.

2.— Si en el término de 10 días, contándose desde la fecha de su depósito, no fuere presen-

tado a cobro, su importe sera reintegrado al remitente.

3.— Será por cuenta del interesado la tramitación sobre su cobro cuando se pretenda efectuarlo

después de vencido el término reglamentario, o en oficina distinta de la destinataria.

4.-Todla persona o Institución que otorgue conocimiento de firma en favor de otra que no

Peredo R.

fuere la beneficiaria, lo mismo que quien acepte por endoso este libramiento, de un endo-

sante que no fuere el destinatario, reintegrará

inmediatamente su importe al Ramo de

• Telégrafos, cuando para ello sea requerida.

5.-En los casos de endoso, que solo podrá ser por una sola vez, no son válidas las tarjetas

- credenciales ni cartillas de identificación

si el encosatario fuere desconocido en la Ofi-

Aúrelia

F.miribase el nombre de la perosna o

13 de. pabrit

cina Pagadora.

6.—El cobro fraudulento de este giro está sancionado por el Código Penal.

RECIBI $ 2,498.00

(Con Número)

Cd. Mante, Tamps-2.4.

Abril

de 19.67.

PAGUESE A

Mante, I

Cd..

• o del ences

HAGO CONSTAR QUE LA TEMA QUE CALZO NI RECHO DE ESTE GIRO ES

DEL LEGITINUO ERE

quien extiende

Firnia de ri

la firma de

«inenimiento

Domicilio..

Guerrero #t 500 Pte.

.de 19.67.

Peredo

Aúrelia

Fairibase el nombre de la perna o

PAGUESE A

Abril

15201-002

Contest 1n)

SECRET..

AGOS

1 003x

SECRET

Cox

Mántia!

IMPORTANTE AL PUBLICO

1.- Para el cobro de este giro es indispensable que ci interesado se identifique a safisfacción de

la Oficina pagadora, o presente firma de conocimiento previamente registrada en la misma.

1 4 200-10571 34

2.—Si en el término úe 10 días, contándose desde la fecha de su depósito, no fuere presen-

tado a cobro, su importe será reintegrado al remitente.

3. -Será por cuenta del interesado la tramitación sobre su cobro cuando se pretenda efectuario

¡espués de vencido el termino reglamentario, o en'oficina distinta de la destinataria

1. Toda persona o Institución que oforgue concicimiento de firma en favor de otra que no

fuere la beneficiaria, lo mismo que quien acepte por endoso este libramiento, de un endo-

sante que no fuere el destinatario, reitegrara

Telégrafos, cuando para ello sea requerida.

credenciales ni 'cartillas de identificación si el endosatario fuere desconocido en la Ofi-

Beneficiar

cina Pagadora.

6.— El cobro fraudulento de este giro está sancionado por el Código Penal.

•de.

RECIBI S. 2,498.00

1AROe1

F200570421007M07

Ca.Mante, Taops-, 4.

13.

Abril

Lula

OCHO

.de 10.67.

Ca. Mante,

LACO CONSTAR QUE LE LICA ME CALAN RECTO E ENTE GIRO ES

DEL LECTINGUE ARME, 3.

- se

quien valienie

le liema die

Inimiento

Domicilio...

NW -45

701 PocIa: 32289115 Page 33SECRET

(3

Guerrero

.A500 Pte.

---

## Page 34

CUTINO

Cont

Roent 1a1

SECRET

DEPARTAMENTO

DE LA

INDUSTRIA MILITAR

FORMA CG .2

DEPENDENCIA.. MAESTRANZA DE ARTI It-

RIA.

DIRECCION.

SECCION

SECRETARIA

MESA.

DE CORRESPONDENCIA.

NUMERO DEL OFICIO

27

EXPEDIENTE.

CLASSIEIED ANDR

EXTENDES

REASO

FCIN%

DME OF

BECLASSIFICATI

Classified bye

Declassi on:-DR 6/7t/$3

ASUNTO: Rinde informe de al dimisión que 1e

TER LAN CD 3/0129

fué conferido.

Olera ir

JFK

Tecamachalco, D.F., a 8 de mayo de 1967.

AL SENTESTAR ESTE OFICIO, CITENSE LOS DATOS

COSTENIDOS EN EL CUADRO DEL ANGULO SUPERIOR

DERECHO.

58,92

C. GENERAL DE BRIGADA D. E. M.

JEFE DEL DEPARTAMENTO DE LA INDUSTRIA MILITAR.

(Secretaría General) •---Presento.-

con el debido respeto, me permito informar a usseu, el-

resultado de la comisión que me fué conferida en unión del -

C. Capitán 1°. Ing. Ind. "ATONIO OLMOS DEL MORAT, a la jiaza-

de la Ciudad Mante Tamaulipas, el dia 2 del presente.

I.- ANTECEDENTES.

Como ya es de su conocimiento, la secretaría de Goberna

ción, por conducto de la Dirección Federal de Seguridaa, so=

licitó de éste Departamento, la cooperación de personal téc-

nico especializado, a fin de localizar, identificar, y en su

caso destruir, unas

"bombas", detonadores y otros artefactos

que según información obtenida por la D.F.S. habián sido in-

troducidas al país, y enterradas a un lado de la carretera, -

¡de Mante-C. Victoria, entre los kilometros 643 y 644.

II. - LOCATIZACION DE LA ZONA Y LUGAR DONDE SE EN

CONTRABAN LOS EXPLOSIVOS.

En consecuencia, el suscrito en compañía del yù citado-

Cap. Olmos, y de dos

Agentes de la D.F.S. se trasladó de in-

mediato a Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, habiendo arribado a di--

cha plaza a las 03.20 hrs. del día tres del presente.

mismo día a las 08.00 hrs.

todo el personal

antes mencionado

se tranladó al paraje indicado, entre los Kmts. 643 y 644, a

fin de lograr la ubicación de la zona, que según las informa

ciones, se encontraba el lugar en donde estaban enterrados =

los explosivos.

Al cabo de cuatro horas, y después de rastrear,

toàa la

zona, de logró encontrar el sitio exaoto en donde se encos

SECRET

Htt

Confae

tlal

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page

34

---

## Page 35

FORMA CG .2

SE GUTI NO

DEPENDENCIA

SECRET

Con

Tent 1

DEPARTAMENTO

DE LA

INDUSTRIA MILITAR

SECCION

MESA.

NUMERO DEL OFICIO -

EXPEDIENTE….

2,9

SERIAR ESTE UPILIO. CITENSE LOS

DATOS

EN EL CUADRO DEL ANGULO SUPERIOR

CONTENIDOS

DERECHO.

ASUNTO:

Hoja 2.

traban los explosivos, estando localizado éste entre 10a --

Knte. 642 y 643, en un promontorio, que bardea el lado iz--

quierdo de la carretera y como a unos 15 Mte. de ésta. Este

lugar se muestra en las

fotografías 1 y 2.

III. - HATTAZGO DE LOS EXPIOSIVOS.

25 Mto. 2e1 Lugar antes mencionado, y en una zona no mayor de

se lograron desenterrar:

1°) •- Una "bomba" o carra explosiva doble, envuelta en.

un pedazo de cámara de Tlanto,

sujeta con cinta-

papel adhesiva. Fotografías 3 y 4.

2°) •- Cuatro imanes o"calamitaa"

"¿ formadas por sendas-

oobinas arregladas espectamente para fijar, coi

cada dos de ellas (por adherencia

a partes meta

licas, cada una de las cargas explosivas. Foto--

grafías 5 y 6. Ios imanes, al igual que las car-

gas se encontraban envueltos en trozos de cámara

de llanta.

3°) •- Los detonadores, para hacer detonar las cargas -

explosivas. Estos se encontraban envueltos en una

bolsa de plástico. Fotografíao No. 7.

4°).- Los restos de una de las cargas explosivos. Se -

supone, que campesinos del lugar en forna ca----

sual

la encontraron, y al tratar de ver su conte

nido, la destruyeron

totalmente. Fotografía No.

De estos restos, se recogieron separadamente:

a) i-

• El material explosivo.

b).-

Fragmentos del envase, cinia de -

plástico de color azul, etiquetas

de la fábrica que l'abricó el ex--

plosivo, restos de periódicos, po

dazos de madera de triplay y ----

fragmentos de tela de malla de --

plástico. T'otografia No. 9.

eronat

Conf

Hoja 3...

..

ntia

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 35

---

## Page 36

CUTIRO

DE UNIDO ACT

FORMA CG - 2

DEPENDENCIA. MAESTRANZA.DE ARTILI-

RIA.

ential

XICO

DEPARTAMENTO

DE LA

INDUSTRIA MILITAR

SECRET

SECCION

MESA -

NUMERO DEL OFICIO

EXPEDIENTE.

2731

AL

ESTESTAR ESTE OFICIO. CITENSE LOS DATOS

CONTENICOS EN EL

CUADRO

DEL ANGULO SUPERIOR

DERECHO.

Livi

ASUNTO:

Hoja 3.

IV.-

ITENTIFICACION DEL MATERIAL EXPLOSIVO. EXAMEN

VISTA.

Una vez que se hubieron desenterrado todos los elemen--

.tenida y cuidadosamente para tratar de identificarlos, y ver

ceder a su destrucción.

a) .- Carga explosiva. De forma rectangular, con las me-

aproximadas siguientes: 30. x 20

x 7 cms. Es-

tá hecha de un block de explosivo recubierta por -

un material de pasta sólião, reforzada en todo su-

superficie, con cinta de aislar, color negro. En -

uno de sus cantos, se encuentran dos tapones para-

tubo de hierro de 3/4", los que se fijan por medio

de rosca, a sendos pedazos de tubo de hierro salva

nizado del mismo diámetro y como de 15 cnot. de --

longitua los que se encuentran dentro de la curga-

explosiva, y sirven como alojamiento a los detona-

dores. Según el eje longitudinal de la carga, 8o--

bresalen unas varillas metálicas de 7 mm. de

metro y de unos 10 cms. de longitud, roscadas en-

sus extremos que sirven para sujetarla

' a las bobi-

nas que se encontraron.

El explosivo, que contiene,

es una maga de co--

lor blanco, de consistencia plústica, y desconoci-

do, en lo que se refiere a sus característico y -

potencia.Será necesario llevar a cabo los anúlisis

correspondientes para determinar su clase y tipo.

Se comprobó que la carga explosiva, no estaba -

organizada ni preparada para funcionar, ya que no-

contenía, los elementos de iniciación, comunica--

ción y multiplicación para ser detonadu. Fotogra--

fía No. 10.

b)i-

Bobinag-imanes o "calamitas", Estas que son cuatro,

están constituidas por una bobina de aproximadamen

te 3" x 2" x 1", teniendo en sue extremos dos pla-

que sirve

para introducir en ellos las varillas de

sujecion de la carga. Del lado opuesto en donde se

tr kill

Cont for

atial

CRET

bolh

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 36

---

## Page 37

FORMA CG.

DEPENDENCIA

SECRET

Antial

DEPARTAMENTO

DE LA

INDUSTRIA MILITAR

SECCION

MESA_..

NUMERO DEL OFICIO

EXPEDIENTE.

ASUNTO:

Hoja 4.......

boring

encuentra el barreno, tienen fija una placa metáli

ca que sirve para fijar por adherencia el imán a -

cualguier pieza metálica. Fotografía No. 11.

PULA.

sand " er

Detonadores. Los detonadores son del tipo de percu

sión y aparentemente accionan por medio de una co-

rriente eléctrica. Tienen una longitua de aproxima

damente 25 eme. de longitua, y 7 a 8 mn. de diáme-

Están conetituldos por un mecaniamo de percusión,

seguro y carga explosiva. Fotografía No. 12.

Dadas las condiciones en que se encontraron, y

al comprobar su seguridad,

en el manejo y transpor

te, ellos no fueron destruidos.

V.- TRASIADO DE LOS EXPLOSIVOS Y ENTREGA DE IOS

MISMOS A LA D.F.S.

Los explosivos (Carga completa, y restoo encontrados) -

detonadores e imanes, perfectanente

embalados, y enpacados-

fueron trasladados a esta ciudad la tarde del dia 4, y se -

entregaron a la Dirección Federal de Seguridad la madrugada

del día 5 del presente. Posteriormente, a las 11•30 de la -

mañana de ese mismo día se trasladaron a un polvorín de la-

Planta de Carga, después de haber sido exuminados por el c.

Director de la D.F.S. quedando a disposición de las Autori-

dades correspondientes. :

Se adjunta una serie de 12 fotografías complementarias

del informe.

RESPETUOSAMENTE •

AL CONTESTAR ESTE OFICIO: CITENSE LOS DATOS

CONTENIDOS EN EL CUADRO

DEL ANGULO SUPERIOR

DERECHO.

SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO- NO REELECCION.

CORONEL INGENIER

IND., DIRECTOR.

ASI MARIA NAVARRO BARQUERO.

(259458)

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 37

---

## Page 38

-SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page

38

---

## Page 39

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 39

---

## Page 40

len

NW 45701

DocId: 32289115

Page

40

---

## Page 41

SECRET

identiai

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 41

---

## Page 42

CRET

Con

atial

SEC

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115

Page 42

---

## Page 43

SECREN

SECREA

NW 45701 DocId: 32289115 Page 43

---

