# docid-32326450

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90055-10042

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-173672-40

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/05/1970

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO DE VARONA

JOSE CARBONELL MARRERO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32326450

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Relpased-under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records C

@lection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2107 Pote).

DATE

1T53121219672

-FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OFORIGIN

SECRET

MIAMI

MIAMI

1/5/70

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/2/69 - 1/2/70

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

JOSE CARBONELI, MARRERO, aka

WILLIAM W. STEVENS

rag

CHARACTER OF CASE

12 AGS

LID FIE

ADVISED 33

SLIP (S) OF

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

0-160. MM

date. rejat who

ALL INFODIATICD ECOTAI

HEREIN IS "CLASSIFIED EXCEPT

REFERENCE

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Report of SA WILLIAM W. STEVENS dated 10/6/69

at Miami, Florida.

wed by SP8

Declassily. ou

-P-

ENCLOSURES

TO THE BUREAU

CLAS

REASON - TO

DATI

2:4:2

2,3

21,4883

CONVIC.

AUTO

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau

are two copies

of an FD-376 for transmittal to United States Secret Service.

LEADS

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GCL

DECLASSIEY ON: 23%.

@(6)

TRI: 6/10/97

FUG

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

XX NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR MAYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

TYES."

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

COPIESMADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105173672 - 40 REC-19

- Bureau (105-173672) (Enc=2)

(RM)

INS,

Miami

(C5813809) (RM)

CIA,

(Hand Carry)

Secret Service, Miami

New York (105-39770)

(INFO)(RM)

San Juanl (65-401)(VFO) (RM)

3

- Miami (100-9487)15

FE608D

Dissemination Record of Attoched Repor

Notations

STATE

AAG: fragly

5 JAN 8 1970

EX-117,

Agency

Request Recd.

INFO

Date Ewd.

116/20

How Fwd.

IBy

HLD.

19mC)

51JAN19

de vero

RICAN

COVER PAGEN

SECRET

7 LATIN

GPO: 1968 0 - 299-885

DocId: 32326450 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Rebeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC -2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

MM 100-9487

Set out in this report are interviews with the

following contacts or associates of CARBONELL'S:

JUAN HERRERO CAME.JO

Bufile 105-122524

ENRIQUE ASLAN PEDRAZA

Bufile 105- 195636

FRANCISCO PEREZ

PEREZ

Bufile 97-3729

Periodic spot surveillances during November and

December, 1969 at CARBONELI's residence and places fre-

quented by him

in the past have failed to develop any

questionable activity on his part suggesting that he

might be currently involved in local Cuban political affairs.

The identity of the special agents conducting

surveillance on April 8, 1965 is appropriately noted in

the case file.

The source of information regarding records at

the Pan American Bank, Miami on November 20 and December 24,

1969 was JAMES D. HAYES who is a retired special agent

formerly assigned to the Miami Office presently Admini-

strative Aid to the Chairman of the Board, Pan American

Bank system, Miami.

Source one is

INFORMANTS

MM 861-S*, X<(S)

COVER PAGE

SECREM

DocId: 32326450

Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

→ HD 201 (HeV. 3-3-59)

ND-204 TRev.

Copy t0:

Report of:

Date:

SECRE

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

I - Immigration and Naturalization Service, Miami

(C5813809) (Registered Mail)

1 - Central Intelligence Agency, Miami (Hand Carry)

1 = United States

Secret Service, Miami (Registered

Mail)

WILLIAM

W. STEVENS

1/5/70

Ofices

Miami, Florida

Fiold Office File #:

100-9487

Bureau Flle #: 105-173672

JOSE CARBONELL MARRERO

Characier:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Synopalas CARBONELL'S associates, "MARIO"

1959-1965 recall he was secretive

person with cover name

, reportedly communist ir

past but then apparently anti-CASTRO and actively inter-

ested in Cuban-exile activities and trips to Cuba; none

and is not currently active in Cuban Affairs.

He has not

registered as foreign agent with Dept. of Justice as not

guilty of

ment to rhifts against U, S.; this May, 1969Cvritten state-

is best and complete recollection of past CISS›

activities

Named by SPSBEst

Dedlass it

2118226

-p-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS USCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

CONF

(5868540 662-313198-582)

Exesterded

autonati m

and

(57K) 6/0/91

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/GCL

CLASS.

& EXI

REASON-FCIM

DATE OF REVIAW

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (0(6)

BE SPUBIAL ONES

1-2.4.2-

115190

21,488

(+65 1 15212. 56)

SECRED

For'

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It Is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and lis contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1989 0 - 351-076

DocId: 32326450

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CHA

MM 100-9487

2o

Because

or contact by CIS and the continuing inveatigation of hie

past activities by the United States Governent combined

with his continued steady employment, CARBONELL indicated

ho has had no interest or inclination to becone active in

local Cuban affairs or even reestablish old contacts in

Anti-CASTRO Cuban exile groups. *He has also abandoned

or the time being any thgught of traveling to Canad

r mexico to contact CaSin the hopes of serving as

double agent for the United States GovernmentS He

explained that a deterrent to his international travel

has been the fact that United States Immigration authorities

maintain a book at the Miami International Airport,,

Admitting facility, apparently relating to undesirable

persons and security risks and his name is carried in this

book.

In the past when he has arrived at Miami and checked

1n with Inmigration,

they have held him up for several

nours and delayed his admission to the United States.

CARBONELL readily admitted that he had been in contact

recently with FRANK PEREd PEREZ and might have told bim

that he hoped to do sonething against the CASTRO regime

but he stoutly denied that he had stated or implied that

he was working with the FBl in this connection.

Concerning the 40-page statement

CARBONELI

wrote in lay, 1969 and later subnitted to the fBi, he

stated that this was prepared to record in an organized

fashion his best recollections of past political activities.

In preparing this statement CARBONELL had discussed these

matters at length with his friends ROLANDO MASFERRER and

PRUDENCIO DUENAS both Of whom had closely been associated

in these activities.

He had solicited their help in

recalling certain events and had later furnished them with

parts or all of the finished

report explaining that he was

making this information avallable to the United States

Government to clarify his position and background.

CARBONELL

stated that in his opinion neither HASFERRER nOr DUENAS

vere particularly interested in the report, however, and

had not apparently read it.

CRET

DocId: 32326450 Page 5

---

