# docid-32306617

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10257

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-157

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/22/1961

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPÈNING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

SGI, ARMORY LOUNGE, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

COMMENTS: INC A/T

9.1

NW: 45792 DocId: 32306617 Page 1

419

---

## Page 2

3/2111

4

ECDERSE, CUNAGS OY SAVECTISATIO:

U.S. DEPARTIENT OF JUSTICE

COME UNICATESS SECTION

MAR 2 2 1901

TELETTRY

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Parsons_

"Tr. Mohr_

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan.

dr. Conre

tr. DeLo

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Vr. Trotter_

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy.

-Qutel

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIA 15 UNCLASSIFIED

DATE5-23-84

URGENT

3-22-61

7-21 PM JEG

TO DÍRECTOR FBI

92-3171

whet

RECA

FROM SAC CHICAGO 92-349

1N13

SAMUEL ME, GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. PCI

ADVISED

INSTANT DATE SHE OBSERVED GIANCANA ENTER THE ARMORY LOUNGE EARLY IN

AFTERNOON, ARRIVING IN A LATE MODEL CHEVROLET CONVERTIBLE. RE THE/EVAN-

STON CAB CO. AND INFO OBTAINED PREVIOUSLY FROM CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE

DASH C RE BUTCH LNU,

FRONT FOR THIS CO. FOR GIANCANA. INFO HAS BEEN RE-

CEIVED TO THE EFFECT THAT THIS IS IN ALL PROBABILITY FRANK QUOTE BUTCH

END QUOTE LOVERDE, WHO HAS INTERESTS IN THE WALTON CLUB, CLUS NINETEEN,

LA RUE THIRTY TWO AND TALK OF THE TOWN WITH DOMINICK QUOTE HUNK END

QUOTE GALIANO. LOVERDE IS AN EX CONVICT AND SERVED SEVEN YEARS AT

LEAVENWORTH PENITENTIARY UNDER NAME OF RUSSO. HE IS A RECENT ROBBERY

SUSPECT, CHICAGO. HE ADVISED HIS LANDLADY AT TWO FIVE THREE DELAWARE

PLACE, CHICAGO, THAT HE IS BUSINESS AGENT FOR THEXEVANSTON TAXICAB CÓ.

16X153H25L4

ATTEMPTS ARE BEING MADE TO INTERVIEW HAROLD/ME CLINTOCK TO DEVELOP ILL

FULL PARTICULARS OF RCA RADIO EX-YEE RESECTIONS POETSYLARLY

AS

IO HIS

ASSOCIATION WITH CHICAGO AREA HOODLUMS. INVESTIGATION CÓNTINUING.

$ MAR 24 1961

INVESTIGATION AT THE/ARMORY LOUNGE DEVELOPED THAT A SIGN INDICATES

END PAGE ONE

-CHICAGO, ILL

Le

Fed Forg

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32306617 Page 2

---

