# docid-32332335

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90101-10076

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-4194-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/16/1964

1

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332335

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

(SA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOI

ERNMENI

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

DATE: June 16, 1964

FROM

till

SAC, Miami (92-463)

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, aka

AR

1217

7

On June 16, 1964, Departmental Attorney WILLIAM KENNEY,

Miami, Florida, telephonically advised he had recently had a dis-

cussion with MEROLA in the presence of Special Agent in Charge

JOHN MARSHALL, of the U. S. Secret Service a

time MEROLA stated he, MEROLA, was recently

amiami. At that ld

advised by GUY

MENDOLA, a hoodlum and known thief of Chicago, that the outfit,"

referring to the criminal underworld, had a Federal Agent "on

the payroll in Chicago." According to KENNEY, MEROLA did not

learn from MENDOLA the identity of the Agent, nor the particular

agency involved. KENNEY stated that as an apparent attempt to

prove this statement MENDOLA stated the Federal authorities had

two individuals in Chicago as informants, both of whom had first

name VITO.

According to KENNEY, MEROLA had no additional informa-

tion concerning the same other than that furnished above, which

MEROLA had just learned from MENDOLA, who is in Miami at the

present time.

The above is being furnished to the Chicago Division

for their information.

2

Bureau

- Chicago (Info)

1 - Miami

HWS : amc

(4)

EX 105

REC- 60

91-4194-6

HE JUN 18 1964

DocId: 32332335

Page 2

---

