# docid-32305249

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 U5C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date: •

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10379

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-1ST NR 2074

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/11/1967

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, ASSOC, TRA, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305249

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

8/11/67

ALRIEL

TO

FROM

SUBJECT :

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-811)

SAC, NEW YORK (137-10966)

NY 4857-C-TE

TECIP

NY DIVISION

LA COSA NISTRA

NY 4857-C-TE was contacted on 8/8/67, 1g

SA RICHARD WERNERSBACH and the pertinent portions

of information furnished are as follows:

PAUL SCLACCA 1s still attempting to

obtain control of the old JOSEPH BONANNO "family" oi

ICN, and nothing has been accomplished in either

direction, to either bring this about or prevent it.

There is very little activity at present among any of

the "families", and things are rather "quiet". SCIACCA

however, receives a constant

stream of "visitors" ab

his garment factory on Atlantic Avenue, Brooklyn, NY»

4 - Bureau (137-811)

(1 - 92-6054)

- Newark (92-1203) (Info.)

- New York (92-638)

- New York (92-1586)

- New York (92-3501)

New

York

(92-3641)

New

York

(92-2300 )

- New

York

(92-1965)

New

York

(92-4164)

New

York

(92-2711)

- New York (137-10966)

ORICINAL FILED IN

137-

92-6054-

NOT RECORDED

150 AUG 24 1967

NOW: HM

(15)

thi

CARBAN COPY

57 AUG 291967

DocId: 32305249

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2103 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WX 137-10966

advice in LCN matters.

Also serving as an adviser to

SCIACCA is FRANK "FRANKIE T" MARI, who is primarily SCIACCA's

"physical support".

JOSEPH COLOMBO is actually the one

pushing for SCIACCA to be named head of the "family",

is doing so for various reasons. In this regard, informant

stated that in view of the "family" situations as they

are today in NiC, namely LUCHESE, now deceased, CARLO

GAMBINO in virtual retirement, and JOSEPH BONANNO In LON

the "whole NY setup as is";

and is, therefore, pushing for SCIACCA to head up the former

JOSEPH BONANNO group, and make COLOMBO's position as

Another reason COLOMBO wants

SCIACCA as head of the former BONANNO "family" is because

the BONANNOS have three exclusive areas in Brooklyn, NY,

which are the Ridgewood, Greenpoint and willlamsourg

sections, and COLOMBO will not make a play to take over

these areas, until he gets control through SCIAOCA of at

least a recognized faction of the JOSEPH BONANNO group.

LUCHESE, informant stated that the individuals in the

position to make this choice are "tight lipped", and no

mention is being made as to even a possible successor.

LUCHESE "family" is doing this to avoia "outside interferenc

he want so an her suppothe outin sitat on ara

any choice is made known.

NY 4857-C-TE stated that for a two-week period,

7/10/67, to 7/25/6%, BILL BONANNO traveled alone to Europe,

where he visited in Frankfort, Germany, with his former

girl friend, HELGA RENOLDS, and they traveled to saville,

Spain, to attend the bull fights.

NY 4857-C-TE stated that members of the LCIT

are seriously considering going "underground" for security

reasons g

in view of all the problems Lel members,

particularly the "bosses", are having all across the

nation. NY 4857-C-TE explained that any information rega air

-2-

DocId: 32305249 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE 11-14-2017

NY 137-10966

LCN matters will be limited to the principals involved, and

will not be a matter of common knowledge to all IN members.

NY 4857-C-TE stated that on 5/20/67, a meeting

was arranged between PAUL SCIACCA and BILL BONANNO in Brooklyn,

Ny, and that very little was accomplished as a result of this

meeting, other than their expression of "mutual distrust".

According to NY 4857-C-TE, two individuals from both sides made

all arrangements for the meeting,

to assure complete safety

for the two parties.

accomplished betiven

NY 4057-C-1E stated that very alcuLe

between BILL BONANNO and PAUL SCIACCA, in

the way of a compromise, as SCIACCA definitely wants to be

"boss".

In regard to JOE "BAYONNE" ZICARELLI, NI 4857-0-1H

scated that LICARELLI has served his purpose in his attempts

to effect a solution to the BONANNO "family" problems, as

ZICARELLI does not have enough influence or carry enough weight

on his own to bring about a settlement.

NY +857-C-TE added that on occasions BILL BONANNO

carries a "piece", meaning a firearm, and that BONANNO justifies

chis with the claim chat he would rather be caught by the

police with one, than to be caught by "others" without one.

The above is furnished for the information of the

Bureau, and information copy is also being furnished the

Newark

• Office.

DocId: 32305249

Page 4

---

