# docid-32330812

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90093-10018

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 91-17937-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO:

NO

. HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/01/1963

4

NOFIO PECORA

WHITNEY NATIONAL BANK OF NEW ORLEANS ST. ROCH

MARKET BRANCH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, INC ADMIN PAGE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330812

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

52-888 (80т.4-780

•

(

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

AFORTING OFFICI

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE Of CASE

ОТРІСТОЧАЮШ

MEN OR LEANS

DATE

11/1/63

REPORT MADE MY

8A LESTER G.

UNSUB.; Haltney

National Bank

CHARACTER Of CASE

o1 New Orlests, St. Boch Karket

Branch, 2337 Ste Claude Ayanue,

New OrlORDS, LoUisIaDa, 7/11/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/12/63 - 10/25/63

DAVIS

REFERENCE:

Report Of SA KARL 1. HASSELL, JR., 8/7/63, at New Orleans.

-P.

LEADS

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT GULFPORT, MISSISSIPPI

NO:1017-C

INFOrMANT

DATA

Will maintain contact witb

¿ Ior additional

information which say lead to the identification and location

O1 NICK RUSSO, JEAN (LNU), and ABE COCERAN COnCerDIng this

bank robbery.

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

1. Hill continue efforts to identify, locate, and

APPROVID

COPITE MADE:

SPECIAL AGAIT

If CHARGE

Bureau (91-17837)

3 _ New Orleans ^91-2046)

1: JE9s

DE IRRACE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BAILON

91-1793746

81 NOV 6

1963

REC

EX-10:

DIS

REQUEST RECO,

DATE FWD...

ном пио.

EMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOT

HECELED...

€ I NOV 19563

8410199-1

DocId: 32330812 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

NO 91-2046:128

Interview one NICH RUSSO, who 1s alleged to have perpetrated

this bank robbery.

2. N111 continue efforts to identify, locate, and

Interview JEAN (LNU), who allegedly has stated that NICK

RUSSO, with whom she was residing at the time, robbed instant

bank.

s. will continue efforts to identily, locate, ano

interview one ABE COCHRAN who, according to an informant, had

been hired by NOFIO PECORARO to steal the bank robbery loot

from NICK RUSSO 1D New Orleans.

4. Will maintain contact with Detective Division,

NOPD, fOr aDy InfOrmatiOn they might be able to develop con-

cerning this bank robbery.

W111 continue efforts to develop additional

suspects who may have been responsible for this robbery.

6. W1ll locate and interview WILLIAM ALFRED

ROUSSEAU, NOPD #57187, concerning his whereabouts on 7/11/63,

and for any Information as to whether or not he night have

been involved in this robbery.

W111, 11 possible, arrange for hin to be interviewed

In parson by the witnessess to this robbery.

1l1 ascertain whether he will submit to an inter-

view

with the aid of a lie detector.

INFORMANTS

INFORM

NO 101G-C

—contacted SA WILLIAN F. DUKES at Gulfport,

MississippI, on 9/6/63, and advised that he had what he belleved

was reliable Information that captioned bank was robbed by NICK

RUSSO (PH) possibly ROUSSEAU, "hite male, about 40, 5'11", 190-2

pounds, slightly dark complexion, flashy dresser and nears dark

glasses, white straw hat with black band, drives 1960-61 white

or creaM Cadilac, two door oth Loulsian Isconse untsoen.

Be possibly has rocord with

=...

....

B

DocId: 32330812

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-

NO 91-2046: jas

Informant advised RUSSO hangs out at the Golden

Slipper Tavern on St. Claude and is believed to live either

nearby or possibly in the French Quarter. RUSSO is living

with a New Orleans prostitute, name unknown, possibly JEAN,

white female, about 25, with black hair.

Informant advised this woman contacted NOFIO

PECORARO, Operator of the Tropical Court on Gentilly Highway,

New Orleans, and told PECORARO that RUSSo pulled this job,

that he had

the loot hidden and never carries over four or

five hundred dollars with him at a time.

This woman is help-

ing PECORARO try to steal the loot from

RUSSO, and PECORARO

has hired ABE COCHRAN (PH), a New Orleans pimp

and strong-

arm man, to try to find the loot and heist the loot from

RUSSO.

Informant advised he has learned from other

contacts in New Orleans that RUSSO pulled this job and

states ABE COCHRAN told him personally on the night of

9/4/63 that he had been unsuccessful in finding the loot

but is certain that RUSSO has it. Informant advised that

COCHRAN whom he believes to have a record with the NOPD,

will probably talk if put under pressure, but requested

that COCHRAN not be interviewed until RUSSO is either inter-

viewed or picked up in order to avoid compromising informant.

Informant returning to New Orleans 9/6/63, and states will

make effort to ascertain exact address of RUSSO there.

On September 12, 1963, NO 1017-C telephonically

contacted SA WILLIAM F. DUKES from New Orleans and advised

that from information he has continued to develop he is more

convinced than ever that NICK RUSSO (PH) robbed captioned

bank.

Informant stated he learned from ABE COCHRAN (PH),

whom NOFIO PECORARO hired to try and heist the loot from

RUSSO, that RUSSO and his girl friend had a fight recently

due to the fact that she was trying to elicit from RUSSO the

whereabouts of the loot.

According to COCHRAN, the girl,

whose name informant still knows only as JEAN, apparently

obtained about $1,400 of the loot from RUSSO, which she turned

over to COCHRAN.

Informant advised he had still been unable to ascertai

DocId: 32330812 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-401 (Rev. 943-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

Character:

SA LESTER G. DAVIS

November 1, 1963

NO 91-2046

Office:

Bureau File No.:

UNKNOWN SUBJECT; Whitney National

Bank of New Orleans, St. Roch Market

Branch, 2337 St. Claude Avenue,

New Orleans, Louisiana, 7/11/63

BANK ROBBERY

NEW ORLEANS

91-17,937

Synopsis:

Photographs of suspects suggested by auxiliary

offices

exhibited to witnesses to this bank robbery, and such

photographs have been eliminated by these witnesses

as being

identical with subject.

Investigation being conducted in an

effort to identify one NICK RUSSO who is alleged by one JEAN,

whose last name and identity is not at this time known, to have

been the person who robbed this bank.

hitorts also being made

to identify, locate, and interview JEAN, as well as one ABE

OOCHRAN whO

allegedly has been employed by one NOFIO PECORARO A

to steal the bank loot from RUSSO. ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

_P-

DETAILS:

On August 12, 1963, the Memphis Division advised

that SA HOLLOWAY CROMER, JR., had discussed this case with

Captain N. E. ZACHERY, Robbery Squad, Memphis Police Depart-

ment, and that Captain ZACHERY advised that the description

Of WALTER JOHN HENDERSON is quite similar to that of the person

who robbed instant bank. Captain ZACHERY furnished a photo-

graph of HENDERSON.

The photograph of WALTER JOHN HENDERSON was exhibited

by SA LESTER G. DAVIS to the following persons who were wit-

nesses to this bank robbery.

HENDERSON's photograph was ex-

bibited among a group of photographs, and each of the following

witnesses positively eliminated all

persons whose photographs

were included in the group as being the bank robber:

This document contains nether recommendations

nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It ls the property of the FBI and la loaned to your ageney; it

Its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32330812 Page 5

---

