# docid-32159532

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10133-10055

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 105-126032-2ND NR 89

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. AO

DIRECTOR. FBI

• DATE: 03/06/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JR, MNO, ATTORNEYS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/12/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(4)

COMMENTS:

NH 53025 DocId:32159532

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

S.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR G 1964

TELLEVPE

per

FBI ALBUQUEE

852 PM. MST URGENT 3-6-64

RGL

Tele.

Miss rundy

TO DIRECTOR, 44-24016 AND SAC, DALLAS 44-1639

FROM SAGO ALAUGUEROUE 44-398

also known as.

JACK LEON RUBY, AKAS LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA DECEASED - VICTI

Office of Origin

CIVIL RIGHTSO DO-DALLAS.

Albuguergus

FOLLOWING INFORMATION RECEIVED MARCH SIX INSTANT FROM AG

ONE NINE THREE C.

ABOUT TWO WEEKS AGO EMPLOYER OF THIS INFORMANT, EVERETT

SCHAFER, PYRAMID COMMERCIAL REFRIGERATION SERVICE. ALBUQUERQUE

RELATED FOLLOWING INFORMATION. Marina Oswald

ABOUT JANUARY TEN LAST SCHAFER AND WIFE, FRANCES, WERE

DALLAS VISITING SCHAFER'S BROTHER•: CARL SCHAFER • BROTHER IS OIL

AND SECURITIES PROMOTER AT DALLAS. AT CARL SCHAFER'S RESIDENCE

AT TIME WERE A GERMAN WRITER, NAME UNKNOWN. WORKING ON STORY OF

MRS. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, MRS. OSWALD'S BUSINESS MANAGER, NAME UNKNOWN.

AND AN ATTORNEY NAMED TOM. LAST NAME UNKNOWN BUT POSSIBLY HOWARD

WHO WAS SUPPOSED TO BE ATTORNEY FOR RUBY. EVERETT D. SCHAFER

ALLEGEDLY LEARNED THAT MRS. OSWALD'S ATTORNEY AND BUSINESS MANAGER

ARE GETTING

A PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS DONATED TO HER AND THAT TOM

MAHONARD AS gIDE, MAS COING TO BE REPLAGED AS ATTORNEY FOR RUBY.

INFORMANT STATES HAS NOT HEARD *ÊVERETT D. SCHAFER REPEAT THIS

INFORMATION TO ANYONE ELSE AND BELIVESIT EVERER BOSCHAFER wERE

ENDO PACE ONE

105-12:6032

NOT RECORDED

R5 MAR 11 1964%

799 MAR 1219641

ALL INPORMATION CONTALIAS /

DATE.

DATE 1S NEY 55830 de

sel

H# 53025

DocId: 32159531

Page

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 3

PAGE: TWO

INTERVIEWED, HE WOULD BE COMPROMISED

INFORMANT ADVISED WITNESSED EVERETT D. SCHAFER CALL BROTHER

IN DALLAS ON CHRISTMAS DAY FROM ALBUQUERQUE UNLISTED NUMBER EIGHT

FIVE FIVE DASH FOUR FOUR ZERO FIVE. SOURCE AT MOUNTAIN STATES T'AND

TO ALBUQUERQUE, SHOW STATION TO STATION CALL TO DALLAS LA EIGHT DASH

FIVE EIGHT FIVE EIGHT ON THAT DATE.

ABOVE FURNISHED TO DALLAS IN VIEW OF INDICATED ASSOCIATION

OF TOM HOWARD, RUBY'S ATTORNEY: WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF MRS. OSWALD.

IF CARL SCHAFER INTERVIEWED, PHRASE QUESTIONS SO THAT AQ ONE NINE

THREE WILL NOT BE COMPROMISED. INSERTS BEING FORWARDED TO DALLAS.

END

WA .

WS

FBI WASH DC

DL

FL

FBI DALLAS

TUS - 02.0

si open a tree toe ion ones

25 CC. MR.: ROSEN

53025 DoeId: 32159532 Page 3.

---

