# docid-32160527

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JrA Assassinauon Syste

Identification Form

vaLe:

J/JUILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10140-10115

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-1766-162

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 100-32965-256

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/19/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32160527 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SECREI

Re :

GEORGE DE MOFRENSCHILDT;

JEANNE

DE MOHRENSCHILDI

WASHINGION 25, D.C.

Apr1l 1, 1964

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAMO

RIMERE SHOWd

OTHE, WISE

Mr: ROBERT DESHEREAU of the Direction de la

Surveillance: du Territoire (DST),

Irench domestic counter

espionage service, advised on March 24, 1904;

that the

files of the DST and other french police services have been

checked regarding VERA LIPOVATZ and her sister,

; HELEN

VOURIEVITCH. The DST files reflect that VERA LIPOVATZ,

also known

aS VERA DE LIPOVATZ, divorced from SCHMIDT,

was born on April 19, 1903, at Gradjave, Yugoslavia.

According to the DST

records, she becane a naturalized

American citizen in 1947. Her daughter, YOLANDE, is married

to PIERRE GIRAUD, a Frenchman, and as of 1954 resided at

45 rue de Lisbonne, Paris. In 1954 VERA LIPOVATZ resided

at 10 rue Blacas,

Nice, France, and was known as

an active

Yugoslav

"Royalist", an anti-Titoist, anti-Communist,

active in Yugoslav anti-Communist emigré groups. The DST

files contained no derogatory information regarding VERA

LIPOVATZ and no information to indicate that she has been

involved in subversive activities in France. Likewise,

these files contained no information to confirm allegations

that HELEN YOURIEVITCH, sister of VERA LIPOVATZ, is' involved

in subversive activities in Trance.

Both VERA 'LIPOVATZ

and HELEN VOURIEVITCH are unknown in the files of the French

criminal police: (S)

VERA LIPOVATZ WaS interviewed on March 31, 1964,

at the apartment of her daughter, Nrs. PIERRE GIRAUD, 45 rue

de Lisbonne,

Paris 8. She advised that she first net GEORGE

DS NOHRENSCHILDT in New York Clty in 1939.

She has known

him as a long-time acquaintance but not as a close friend

since that time.

During the time she resided in the United

States, until about 1952, she saw DE MOHRENSCHILDT occasionally

but not too frequently since he resided in Dallas, Texas, and

she resided in New York City

Since she returned to Europe

for residence in 1952, she has seen DE MOHRENSCHILDT On only

two occasions in the past twelve years.

These occasions were

during brief visits of DE MOBRENSCHILDI to Paris.

105-1766-162

INDErED

in 10S SECREAMED 12-23-92

est on 40R l -833

200/ тав ди

• THE

Ari* 1904

FBI - DALLAS

DocId: 32160527

Page 2

---

