# docid-32355524

## Page 1

Date: 10/28/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection

ACt DI

1992

144

USC 2107 Notel.

Case# : NIT

53199 Date: 06-13-2017

AGENCY :

CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10097-10305

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

MEXI

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE

POLITICAL ASYLUM FOR CUBAN

DATE

11/19/63

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS

:

CHOADEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/09/96

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

JFK32: F5

1996.06.09.11:24:16:070100:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

NW 53199

DocId: 32355524

[R]

Page

1

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

20075/0526

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3? SECRET

ROUTING

4!

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM I MEXICO CITY

ACTION, C/SAS 5 (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLO

INFO , DDP, ADDP, C/C1, C/FI 2, C/NA 5;

• AT lEGO, 19 Nür BP)

+115 1917332

PRICRITY DIE WAVE CITE MEXI 6951

is Ma Sa m6 4090

PYBAT TYPIC AVLEO

REFS: H. MEXI SORA (IN EZBIS)

.

MEXI 595û (In 62502)

:. SiR 83236

WAVE 7593

1062512)

E.

MEXI 6905

(1061742)

?.

MEXI

6204 (11 61184)

G.

WAVE 7257 140569215)

H. DIR 53472

1. REF A URITTEN AFTER BRIST CHOADEN WELDRAKE RSET HORNING

IS CV. WISH CORREOT APPARSUT MISCONCEPTION A-S BEING RESISTANT

GUIDANCE, FOLLOWING PARTIALLY REPEITITICUS BUT PUTS SITUATION

IN CORRECT FOCUS.

2.

AS RESULT ABOVE DISCUSSION C/O AND CHOADEN DECIDED A-3

AND C/O WOULD CONTINUE RESIDE HILTON WITH LIFIRES RESIDING

AT HOTEL VASCO DE QUIROGA (FIVE MINUTE DRIVE FROM MELTONS ON

24 HOUR CALL UNDER CONTROL OF C/O:

LIFIRES DOING USED INSURE A-S GIVEN FULL PROTEOTION DURING CRITICAL

13208

HH 53199 DocId:32355524 Page 2

..._

---

## Page 3

CLASSFIED MESSAGE

I CARTO PACE 2

PERIODS WHEN HE MEETING WITH PFREZ.- AMLEO-3 NOT INSTALLED I*

SAÉCHOUSE SINCE DESIRE MAINTAIN SOHE SEMELANCE COVER STORY HE

SEXI INDEPENDENTLY WITH NO ODYOKE CONNECTIONS. WILL MOVE A-3

TO SAFEHOUSE WITH C/O, LIFIRES RESIDENT, IF ANY INDICATIONS

DANGER FROM COC.

3. ON 16 NOV 1030 HRS A-3 SENT HOTEL DEL PRADO MEET AMLEO-2.

A-2 DEBRIEFED BY A-3 UNTIL 1700 HRS WHEN HE RETURNED MILTON,

CONTACTED G/O, AND REPORTED FULL DETAILS DEERIEFING. A-2 CONFIRMED

TO A-S THAT BOSQUES WILLING GRANI ASYLUS A-S WIFE, CHILDREN

AND STATED BOTH SHE AND A-3 VIFE FIRFLY BELIEVE ASLUM OFFER

LEGITIMATE MITROUT ANY CONNECTION TO GOC. A-S ABLE CUNFIRE

CENGRAL PLAN CUTLIRED REF 5, DUT UNABLE. CONFIRI OR ADD DETAILS

SINCE SHE DID NOT PARTICIPATE IN MELT WITH URS. BOSQUES AND WIFE

A-3 TOLD HER WHAT BASIC ELDENTS PLAN WERE BUT REFUSED SUPPLY

DETALS, NANSS, SIC STATING IT BETTER A-2 NOT KNOW ICO MUCH

SINCE SHE IN PROCESS LEAVING CUBA AND

COULD 5E SUBJECT LAS? MINUTE

I'TERROGATION OR BE REFUSED PERMISSION DEPART BY DIER.

A-2 ALSO NOTED A-3 WIFE WAS CONTUSED RE COURSE ASTION FOLLOW RE

ASTRUM UP UNTIL HEET WITH ARS. DOSQUES, BUT NOW FEELS CERER

LECITIMATE IF A-3 CARRIES OUT HIS PART OF ACTION CI.E. PAYING

RANSONS AND WILL DE GLAD.

AFTER ASKUM.

4. AFTER TALI WITH A-2, ANLEO-3 CALLED PEDRO PEREZ VHO

INFRIED A-S THAT EVERYTHING FINE AND INVITED A-S TO PARTY HE

GOING TO. A-3 REFUSED INVITATION PARTY AND TOLD PEREZ ME ONLY

DESIRED DISCUSS BUSINESS AT HAND AND WISTED CONSUMATE DEAL

13208

HW 53199 DocId:32355524 Page

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 64090

_ PAGE_ 3_

QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE. PEREZ SAID ARPANGEMENT WOULD BE FOR CASH

ON DELIVERY ONLY (PAYMENT TO BE MADE AFTER WIFE IN ASYLUM BUT

THAT HE DID NỌT HAUF FULL DETAILS AND WOULD HAVE TÔ CONTACT

ACHER INDIVIDUAL SHOT NAMED, WHO OUT OF TOW! AND PLANNED RETURN

MEXI 19 NOV. PEREZ SAID A-3 TO CONTACT HIM AFTER 1800 MRS

18 NOV

BY PHONE AND ADDED AFTER AORTEMENT REACHED BETWEEN KINSELF AND

A-SCA-S DOES NOT MAVE TO SZE UNHARED PARTY AGOVES FIVE TO SEVEN

DAYS WOULD BE NEEDED SEND WORD INTO BOSQUES AND ASYLUM A-S WIFE.

CH 18 NOV 63 1815 HRS A-3 CALLED PEREZ AS INSTRUCTED AND INFORMES

THAT CONTACT OF PEREZ NOT ARRIVING MEXI CITY UNTIL LATE HOUR

IC TOV AND PEREZ AGREED NEST A-3 HIS HOTEL ROOM AT HILTON 0900

IRS

iS NOV. LIFIRES AND C/S WILL PROVIDE A-3 WITH COVER DURING

MEE? HILTON, WILL ADMISE RESULTS HEET OPIT.

S. RE REF C AND D, WADIU A-S RETURICO MILTON AFTER NEST

WITH A-2 AND CALL TO LITANIL-O, IS INMCDIATELY CONTAG? CIO AND

INFORMED HIM KE HAD CALLED LITANIL-y'AT HORE FROM PHONE BAR DEL

PRADO HOTEL, A-3 CLAIMED HE DID NOT USE TRUE NAME CR ALIAS CONVERSATION

AND THAT'L-S RECOONIZED HER TROUGH DETAIL'S' CONVERSATION. A-3

SAID CALL SHORT AND THAT L-D AGREED MEET HIM DEL PRADO BAR 1900

IRS 18 NOV 63. L-S REPORTEDLY TOLD A-S HIS POLITICAL VIEUS STELL

VARICO FROM A-J'S CHE STILL LOYAL COES AND AGREED SEE HIM ONLY

AS PERSONAL: FRIEND VITH NO POLITICS INVOLVED. A-3 ACTED. THERE

I4S ISEN NO CONTACT SINCE BETUBEN A-S AND L-S;

SINCE PHONE CALL.

A-S DIU NOT MAKE MEET UITH LES) SCHEDULED FOR iSCO INS 18 HOU

DEL PRADO BAR.

6.

AFTER IMPARTING INFO PORA FIVE ADOVE TO C/O AHLEO-3

13208

MH 53199 DocId:32355524 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFIED OSAGE

1: 6020 PACE A

RACKED OVER BY C/O AND TOLD IS SIGULD

PACK ANO FREPARE LEAVE MEXI

IBMEDIATELY AND FORGET RANSUMINO VIFE SINCE HE HAD PRODALLY

RUINED WHATEVER CHANCES SI HAD. FOR ASYLUM. A-3 TOLD NOT CALL NOR

SEE1

L-STAND NOT CONTACT ANYONE AGAIN NEXI HITHOUT CLEARING

VITH C/O PIRST, A-S CLAIRED HE MADE CALLÍL-O) DEGAUGE A-Z DROUGHT

WORD FROM A-S WIFE THAT HE SHOULD CONTACT(L-S NERI BINCE IDEN A

SWHO STILL REPORTEDLY ALTI-REOIHE, ANTI-FIDEL; AND STILL SELPINO

A-3 WIFES DESIRED HAVE A-J ESTAGLISH COMMO CHANNEL TO HER VIA

¡L-S CREASONS UNSTATED). LAGACACUNO THIS OR LEAD INGUN ADDRECILES.

IN EARLY 19G3 A-S TOLD OV'O/O' CAS FER MENI STATICH INGARUCTRONSS

THAT L-D NOT APPRCACHACUS DER REGRUITEGIE, UNSTUELE, EEC.

A-S ALUNVO DELIEVED MUDAR FREVIOUO ACEECONSUT LEO DO UURECRUSTAOLE

NOT VALID. Oil 1G NOV, AS ANSTRUCIDO DY MANI SENDICH, GAO TOLD

H-S KUDAT ASSaSSHONY DISLE CORREET, LES DOPINAELY LOVAL COE

AND SHOULU NOT DE CONTROSCO. ADD ACTORD TO INSTRUGSIONS.

T. IN SUMMARY C/O LILIEVES A-S COOFERATINO FULLY QUITH ONE

EXCEPTION UNAUTHORIZED ACTION PARA FIVE ADOVES. A-S NNOULEDZAOLE

LIFIRE PROTECTION, KNOUS THEY BY SIGIT, AND PLEASED AND IN FELL

ACCORD WITH FROTECTIVE SUPPORT TO DE DIVEN IGM. A-S WILL IN NO

VAY ATTEMPT SHAKE OR DOODIVE LIFING FOAM AND CIY DESIRES THEY

STAY IN BACKCHOUND AND NO DURN THENCELVES 70 FAREZ DURINA +03

WEETS. HIS MAIN DESIRDO IS MAINTAIN HIS COVER TO PEREZ A3

NECOTIATING IUDOPEEDENTLY RE ASIZUM UITH NO CONCIE COUNSETIONS.

PEREZ ALSO AGARE A-3 REPORTEDLY CAME MERE YOU? MISSOLE ON ARRIVAL:

C/O HAS MADE ALL DECICIONS THIS CASE RE TURE PROTECTION ta BE ete:

A-3,. HIS COVER WHILE IN PERI, ETC.

13.208

"!

HH 53199

DocId:32355524 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN E:000 PAGE 5-

• 8. RE REF M, C/O OF FERN OPINION A-S UNDER CONTROL AND HAS

CAVEN NO INDICATIONS HE WILL GO OP ALONE NOR REDEFECT. AT PRESENT

C/O HOPES CONSUMATE AGREEMENT BETWEEN PEREZSA-S WITH ADDRESSES

CONCURRENCES AS RAPIDLY AS POSSIBLE AND RETURN WAVE. MEXI MAS

NO INSTANCE IN STATION MEMORY WHERE CUBANS USED VIOLENCE. BUT

SINCE APPEARS FROM PARA FOUR THAT DEAL NOT FINAL FOR SEVERAL DAYS

WISH CONSULT FURTHEN ON ANSWER FARA THREE REF H.

ARian 7012 in-trini

...

!..

MLAAX13208

WH 53199 DocId:32355524 Page 6

---

