# docid-32404200

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10331-10070

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53217 Date:

76-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: BRIAN LATELL

TO

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

TITLE

MEMO: JFK ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

DATE

06/02/1995

PAGES

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

ARRB

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEE

CLASSIFICATION

:SECRE]

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/30/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-16 : F4 : 2000.02.08.12:26:59:700035

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10070

HH 53217 DocId: 32404200

Page 1

---

## Page 2

= .

C/HRG

-SECRET T

CSI-0032/95

2 June 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Brian Latell

Director, Center for the Study of

Intelligence

JFK Assassination Records Review Board

1. Action Required: None. This is for your

information.

(0)

One of this Center's major responsibilities over

the past year has been as the Agency's intermediary with

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Review Board

(AARB) .

The presidentially appointed Board was created

by 1992 legislation with broad authority to review

assassination records held by government agencies and

privately with the objective of publicly disclosing the

maximum possible number of documents.

The five member

Board is chaired by John Tunheim, the Principal Deputy

Attorney General of Minnesota.

headed by David Marwell.

wet esourent our geared

The substantial staff is

currently, tour cleared mempers

of the staff are at this Center virtually full time for the

purpose of reviewing the Kennedy records which we maintain

here in the Ames Building. (U)

3. Neediess to say, CIA records--Lee Harvey Oswald's

201 flle, Mexico City Station records, and large quantities

of operational material--are of keen interest to the Board.

our Historical Review Group, headed by John Pereira, has

one an impressive job of coordinating Agency relations with

the Board and overseeing the declassification and release to

the National Archives of Kennedy-related records.

220,000 pages already have been released,

a large percentage

of them with redactions to protect intelligence sources and

methods.

The Board is not due to complete its work for

about another two years and our support for its mission will

continue to be a major, time-consuming responsibility. (S)

CL BY: 195387

DECL:

OADR

"SECRET*

HH 53217 DocId:32404200 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records Review Board

4. It is likely that the Board eventually will want us

to declassify operational details from our records that

Agency components will not want to release. If we were

unable to broker a satisfactory solution--as John Pereira

has been able to do in all such cases thus far--we would, of

course, bring the issue to you and the dcI.

stipulates that in such instances the President "shall have

the sole and nondelegable authority to require the disclo-

sure or postponement of such record..." (S)

5. At some point you may want John and me to brief you

on this entire matter, although I do not believe it is

urgent to do so. The Board has advised us that it will want

to meet with the DCI, probably in the next two months or so.

Finally, for your information I am attaching a memorandum

from John providing a recent update on Board activities.

(C)

Latell

Attachment

LOBERST

53217

DocId: 32404200

Paue

---

## Page 4

• SECRET

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records Review Board

D/CSI/DCI/BLatell:aw/30214

(2 June 95)

Distribution:

original -

Executive Director

1 -

Executive Registry

1

C/HS

1 - C/HRG

1 - csI File

1 - CSI Chrono

-SECRET

33217

Do01d: 32404200

Page 4

---

## Page 5

--

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI-0333/95

26 May 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Director, Center for the Study

of Intelligence

John Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

Meeting with JFK Assassination

Records Review Board

, This memorandum is for your information.

1.

On 18 May 1995, members of the Directorate of

Operations

and the Historical Review Group met with the

JFK Assassination Records Review Board to discuss the

declassification of CIA records. The Board had requested

the meeting for purposes of educating its members as to the

categories of information that probably will require

continued protection, i.e. by deleting words or inserting

substitute language.

2. The discussion focused on some 30 documents that

describe CIA operations in Mexico City at the time of the

assassination. Among the categories of information

discussed were: locations of stations, surveillance methods,

intelligence liaison relationships, names of agents and

staff officers, and pseudonyms and

cryptonyms.

In a number

of instances we suggested alternative ways of

describing

sensitive information, which the Board

seemed to find a

reasonable approach.

3. No decisions were made by the Board during the three

and half hour meeting, but the session was highly productive

in terms of providing

the Board a basis for understanding

material in documents related to sensitive sources and

methods.

Board Chairman John Tunheim told me that the Board

found the discussion very helpful in helping them fulfill

their responsibility for approving or disapproving all

recommendations to withhold information.

The Board's

Executive Director, David Marwell said it was a valuable

meeting, and he complimented the Agency representatives for

being willing to engage in an open-minded discussion that

was "not scripted."

Than

John Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

NW 53217 DooId:32404200 Page 5

---

