# docid-32340683

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10076

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-1920

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

04/20/1967

3

LCN, TRA, BUS, GAMBLING ACT, TELCAL, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: • Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32340683

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2103 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2947

Transmit the following in

Via

ALRIEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

4/20/67

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-300)

LA COSA NOSTRA-CONSPIRACY

AR

(00: NY)

NY 4498-C-TE advised that one CHICK BERARDI, known

to the NYO and Bureau, recently returned to NYC from a trip to

New Orleans.

Informant said that BERARDI was sent to New

Лузі

Informant said that BERARDI was sent to see CARLOS

MARCELL, underworld boss ot the New Orleans area.

Informant

was unable to learn the specific reason for BERARDI's trip

but did learn that BERARDI saw and spoke to CARLOS MARCELLO

who put him under the care of SAM DOMINO (ph) in New Orleans.

Informant said he understands that DOMINO is an underworld

member under CARLOS MARCELLO.

Informant said that BERARDI told him he met several

*@D • ipolice officials and an assistant Mayor through SAM DOMINO.

These individuals were all reportedly on CARLOS MARCELLO's

payroll.

Informant also

said»that MARCHLLO has a big gambling

3-Bureau

2-New Orleans (92-365)

1-New York (92-

Sunsetew Soners

(TRAMUNTI)

2-New York

8 ARR 81-1967

L FRG: pml

(10)

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32340683

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4/25/67

- Mr. Kelly

- Mr. Kent

Airtel

To: SAC, New York (92-2300)

Tron: Director;

Director: sist (92-6054)- 1920

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR ~ CONSPIRACY

ST-105

Re New York airtel 4/20/67.

New York 02fice should recontact NY 4498-C-TE for

additional intormation regarding nature of Berardi's trip to

New Orleans to see Carlos Marcello on underworld business on

behalf of Carmine Tramunts, a leader In the Luchese "family"

Through informant, you should attempt to

identify the police officials and the Assistant Mayor of

New Orleans who are reportedly on Marcello's payroll.

Because of informant's position in this matter, it

would appear that he could furnish considerable additional

detail regarding this trip. Suairtel.

MAILED 12

APR 2 5 196/

COMM-FEl

Tolson

DeLoach.

Mobr.

Wick

Casper

Callahar

TJE: dj8

(6)

Conrad

belt

Gale

Rosen

SZMAY 8

Sullivan

987

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

MAIL ROOM V

TELETYPE UNIT

951-100498

DocId: 32340683

Page

3

---

