# docid-32273215

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/26/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10145-10428

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

55-06-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 11/06/1978

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

Released under

the John F.

Assassination

Collection act of

144 USC

2107

Cased: NU

53080 Date:

36-05-2017

CIA, 201 FILES

DEFECTORS

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1Ạ; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 31

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32273215

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO:

• TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT

MR. TED DARBY, CIA SECURITY OFFICEROM: Office of Legislative Counsel

HOUSE SELECT CONM. ON ASSASSINATIONS

Central Intelligence Agency

ROOm 7 D 35

Washington, D.C.

20505

7. NOV 73

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

INFORMATION

ACTION

CONTROL NUMBER

DOC.

DATE

RETENTION

SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred)

LOAN

CLASS.

NOTES OF BETSY WOLF 11772648-71112656

ASCA

S

19626

RECEIPT

SIGNATURE (acknowledging

receipt of above

documents)

RETURN TO

DATE OF RECEIPT

18076

31/2E

53080 DooId: 32273215 Page 2

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROOM 7 D 35

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD

• BACK

3 - CANARY. OLC HOLD

BACK

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Glassification:

(This form is to be used for- material. extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Sity tielf

l Horride 1978

201-749651 No.4 of 4 1January 1991 —

( Cable).

080750Z CIA 202417

TD: FBL

Subject: TOMCAT; ESP-CUBA-PANAMA; RA -CUBA-PANAMA

Paragrapd 2. "Madur Roduques Haleia DPOS 6 Herway 1937, HaVaa,

in Hatefax Nova seota He and derrefed and hardled though

sormal defects channels and Was the SAUle of numerous eSCI'S

CONCERNS the RAI I 1964 A 65, Me to Me outinally in

semitment uterupts aganst pot iffeess

auring 1964-1967. se ass terminated in TWy 1967, and was condered

Hit are used You are secutes Alert i s9Ti t

Toseph Mouses to the alias of a CIA a n

detes Rodugues is pesonaties and methods of the BbI te

is no otter CIA nookraent With Roduguy

Handuretter sider Laid i statues of SLANK/! states in pact

"Informed "Calvia"

# is Aguel 77 Hat SLANK/I la still an

his estract in as setire folde

R. H

(cort. ba next page)

11112648

SEDREY

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

HH 53080 DocId: 32273215 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Classification:

282.

(This- form-is-to-be used for material exiracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Undaid Minerades of Aal Commutment

JUSTECT: Engagement of SLANK I

I Felt and Pigget targe: Subset has been engaged usan bral

estract ior us under Project ShEEPER: I upleter date of the

Mal costreet is 16Dct.1975.

2. Scuty Approval: A. 0A. fo. 0p. Use of Subjeet outside uS was grasted

I outs ya tie to the a l not M+5010.)

1. Rurational Expusis: VIll Me. Inburse Upon SWOo

proper accounting of expenses.

Hok-Staff Dersonsel Date Sneet

dated 16J 16

Tame: Kladini ROARI GUEZ Matera

Intreet lategry: B Effective Rate: 160ct. 0ct.25 Expuation Date Selfia

CIA Emplynest Hustry

Dates

Fustion

Heretion Eugeet

2p. 61-No. 67 Aget

Jaa. 69 - Preset laformant

Улан

Salam

1600

1/20.

SLEEPER

WAE

she Ritually

(Employea

11112649

DECRET

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

WH 53080 DocId: 32273215 Page: 4

---

## Page 5

Classification:

(This form-is to-be used for material-extracted

Betay Holf

в Каченни 1978

lu. Puginus track (201-169934)

rusalty. (201) tile Request

Date: 9 May 54.

From: Hee Evert RI/CO pu FE/3

были Ды: Лые

Detera Ruck: FE/3

Amit: tried file in t 4 20 1

Dimacect Chg...

Restuited File: No

Hile induate le was former stay of saturational Meltly Hurd

вы was осиля, винад НИАС Легикда И 1948, 6) Ааад. Ясен а жетве.

of a Soret Liptage gioup active a Nasdagton, D.C. a Mally 19403.

lo sad his wife treeled to this area 1958 i am Midig in Flug

Hile cstans mary this agencydoes.

Also a separate volume of thed agency (FBI.) abes. I Мыде , алы

WHEELER.

11112650

-SECRET

Classification:

Classified by derivation. =

INN 53080: DocId:32273215 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Classification:

(This form-is to be: used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Betay Wolf

6 More all 1978

Filities, Isle (201-289237)

I Morest 1960 Mensandlin, M.D. Steens, Ses. to Septy Di. of Secuty

SUBJECT: Amencan Refector

Refers to SRS MemO ba Am defectors dated 31 beT.60.

"Tha. Dan Igest, of He CI Staff, tas furiked is the attacied copy of a

letter ferre 1. Hagh 5. cummings, I., of the State Ript., to 4. Rusaid 11

Busill of this Agedy, dated 25 Det 60. w/referace to 'Am defectors"

Jun May 1959 to Det 1960. I unwings ailed if this Agesy celd ruly

and postly expand" a dest whet accompasud tis lite; and thes.

Egert is prepaung a reply to din

Emmings lst scludes Id NAMes, s of wise an upered to in SkS

1.Sgt. Sgt. Eral Theele: Neerding to MY. T. atle of 1/159,

Frittan was clered, ty 5. Ainy attruties, t have de freted

145 н 2.3010

in E. benay. No quetter ip.

2: Daved DuBos: No of 21 Sept, 59, he wis te honder prepausy to go

b eking win Moscow for a 3yr stay The is step sex of W.E. B hUBs

Nothing in files indistis that he is consideed a defecter

3. Morsis Molle Klee: 15 delegate to Moscow Youth Fertial 4 19512

subrequently baveled to lina at invitation of linese toples Repilie

defector. is file cannot te located at this tome.

11112651

Classification:

Classified by derivation:

HH 53080. DocId: 32273215 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Classification:

(This form is to be: used for material extracted

from ClA-controlled documents.)

Note thet Suity fles contaca if it 3 defectors who qually for S I lest

but aseat bacluded:

Richolas PETRULAI, DRaull R. Sena, & Hebest Hee MORTHRUP,

Be Cuba dels. KM. A. MOREAN 3, Paul B WILSON & UHR deleter, edward

NIXON.

Laf. u all defe is this me i that of 310ct 60 has dile quailed to the Egetter

Pissality Fle tetion Reacest

Dat : 21 Dee: 1960

Dig Wroup lode: AG

Nettor Desk: CI/SIG

comments: Residesce i USA: Errator, Kentere

Refected to. I. Minary - befo. reported

Juse 59

Signattese: N.S.

Restrueted : Us

Asinarest Cge: H0

Thed Agesy Doe.: hosa-lep U.5. Auny Are M-JaR: 65 (DAR (AAR-4319) R: #lette

Also, sperate Land Agery Are.

sept. of. Aimy ASCI-ASCO 14-/M 65/ Hash:

R2: Vestig If U-5. Defectors

B.r. Vutchell

201-282337 - just prior to tat of 1. 1. Martca

11112652

-SEC

Classification:

•Classified by derivation:

NH 53080 DoeId: 32273215 Page ?

---

## Page 8

Classification:

(This form-is- to be used for material extracted.

from ClA-controlled documents.)

DuBois, Deed laka NeCanns, Daved Sakes) 201-271141

Pensality. (201) 7112 Request

Oate: 20 1a2. 60

Tron: (blank)

Source Doe:: DBF - 38988

Country of Reidere: US%

Fun Lage : No

Kistucted Fil

: Yes

Signed : Ara Saylo

Baskgound lifo. (appers to it sane as is 21 Mov. 60 Bens to State Rept.).

Melanne was iseled AUl.S. passport be 4 treb. 59 e, it is Astral de

traveled to limmunist lead @Fit.59 wheats maste e step-fatter, W.E.B.

Bu Be traded the Melans wise itching tell Matesty is te 59.

Will utations to study the is ate 3yeals

230ct.61-40270, DBP to Au., FBT : States thet Melanas left Cera ê in

now tacking at the Catio irity undu name o saud Dubsis

Tile win undeates that su Bis was imployed in laws or several

years as a journalist and ty 363 he had requied Sharan eyeistep,

Lact reports (1967) ladecate he is stell in lairs

11112653

SECR

Classification:

Classified by derivation: =

HH 53080 DocId: 32273215 Page B

---

