# docid-32329900

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90088-10080

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3241-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: SU

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/19/1958

1

BENJAMIN BINION

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

DocId: 32329900

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

- Released under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

SAC, Salt Lake City (94-253)

11/19/58

Director, FBI (92-3241)

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

SALT LAKE CITY DIVISION

Re San Diego airtel dated 11/7/58 captioned

"Top Hoodlum Program - AR, Weekly Summary," wherein informa-

tion was set forth regarding one Maurice Mickey Mandel, was.,

who had recently been discharged from the Federal Penitentiary

at Leavenworth, Kansas. According to information furnished

by SD 968-C Mandel named Benny Bennion (phonetic), Las Vegas,

as owing him a favor and described him as a person who would

bank roll hin if he needed it. It is considered most

likely that Mandel was referring to Top Hoodlum Lester Benjamin

Binion.

'In view of efforts being made to cultivate Binion

as a Bureau informant, Salt Lake City should consider

questioning

him during next regular contact regarding his

connections with Mandel

Any significant information should

be promptly furnished to the Bureau with copies for the

San Francisco and San Diego Offices.

'For the

information of the Salt Lake City Office,

Mandel approached CI to rob bank in area and requested CI

obtain firearms... He told CI he had appointment to meet 2

fellow prisoners from Leavenworth in San Francisco in

January, 1959.

Mandel was subsequently identified as a

Conditional Release Violator Fugitive and was arrested in

Oakland, California, by Agents of the San Francisco Office

on November 5,

1958.

Sufficient discretion must be employed

in the approach to Binion in this matter so as not

to

compromise the original informant.

EX. : 124,

- San Dieg

RGE: Swb

(6 (

fi7 92-3341=30

12 NOV 20,1958

ils on

ardman

Imont

sons

-NOV 25'1958

¡Sullivan -

Room —

sman -

MAIL KOOMLA

MAILED kh

NOV 1 9 1958

COMM-FBI

TELETYPE UNIT I

DocId: 32329900 Page 2

---

