# docid-32290293

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/18/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10205-10069

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-312

Released under the John

?. kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# : NW

45679 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/16/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, BUSS, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v0.1

HH 45679

DocId: 32290293

40

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-8

A-41 (Rey. 8=2-61)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans <

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

¿Gandy

xxx Teletype

Mole 2!

DEFERRED

9-16-69 6:35 AM RUL

O DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

160810

GUS ALEX, AKA. ARO DAILY SUMMARY, CG 6343-0 ADVISED THAT

IRVING "RED" WEINER IS A VERY CLOSE FRIEND OF ALEX, JOHN

D'ARCO, LOUIS BRIATTA AND FRANK FERRARO. HE SAID WEINER HAS

AN $0,000 A YEAR JOB AS CHIEF OF SPECIALSERVICES WITH THE

CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT, BUT SPENDS LIKE A MILLIONAIRE AND

HAS TRAVELED TO EUROPE ON TWO OCCASIONS AND MAKES FREQUENT

TRIPS TO FLORIDA, ALL IN THE PAST THREE OF FOUR YEARS. HE

SAID ABOUT EIGHT YEARS AGO WETNER WAS A GYM INSTRUCTOR FOR

THE PARK DISTRICT AT A SALARY OF ABOUT $3, 000 A YEAR. HE

STATED THAT HE IS CERTAIN WEINER IN THE PAST TWO OR THREE

YEARS HAS RECEIVED LARGE SUMS OF MONEY FROM BEN STEIN OF

THE NATIONAL, MAINTENANCE CORPORATION. WEINER ALSO HAS CHARGE

OF PIER MOONGS FOR THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT.

JEK Law 10(a)2

STATED THAT

IN

HIS OPINION STEIN AND NATIONAL MAINTENANCE CORP. RECEIVED

CONTRACT FOR MC CORMICK PLACE THROUGH WILLIAM MC FETERIDGE.

MC FETERIDGE IS ON THE CHICAGO PARK BOARD, CHICAGO POLICE

BOARD, AND ALSO IN CHARGE OF THE BUILDING EMPLOYEES UNION.

REC- 29

18-3189312

• SEP 181966

the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be auild as Z

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

HH 45679 DocId: 32290293

Page 2

---

