# docid-32576389

## Page 1

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEI

"FBI

Date:

1/21/65

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO:

Director, FBI (92-6054)

FROM O

SAC, Los Angeles (92-1112)

RE:

LA COSA NOSTRA

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

Re San Diego telephone calls to Los Angeles,

1/20/65; Los Angeles telephone call to San Francisco,

1/21/65.

For information of San Francisco, FRANK DESIMONE's

car was last observed at his residence in El Cajon, California

on the morning of 1/17/65. DESIMONE has not been seen since

and his present whereabouts are unknown. Intensive

investigation is being conducted by San

Diego and Los

Angeles offices to locate DESIMONE.

San Francisco is requested to conduct discreet

spot checks at residences and hangouts of known La Cosa

"members

in San Francisco andSan Jose, California

areas to determine if DESIMONE temporarily in those areas.

In particular, advise if JAMES LANZA's whereabouts are

presently known.

On 1/9/65 a 1959 Mercedes Benz, California

license CER 100 was observed parked at DESIMONE's residence

in El Cajon, California.

This vehicle registered to JOSEPH

MOTTA, P. 0. Box 425, Carmel, California.

Bureau (REGISTERED)

- Sun Diego (REGISTERED)

2

- San Francisco (REGISTERED

REC- 44

92:

2 - Los Angeles (92-1112)

(1 - 92-107)

JGW/ sef

(9)

6054-

JAN 23.965

FINO

911

Approved:

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45839 DooId: 32576389 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-1112

San Francisco requested to conduct discreet

spot checks in Carmel to determine location of DESIMONE.

DESIMONE driving 1960 white Cadillac Coupe de Ville,

California license QXE 608.

All logical areas including race tracks, airline

terminals, train stations and all known associates of

DESIMONE in Los Angeles area nave

been checked with negative

results to date.

Constant contact has been maintained with

LA 4448-C-TE, however, he has been unable to determine

any additional information regarding DESIMONE's planned

trip and is unaware of DESIMONE's present location.

San Francisco is requested to immediately

advise pertinent offices in the event DESIMONE'S

car is observed in that area.

San Diego is requested to keep interested offices

advised of results of investigation to locate FRANK DESIMONE.

FRANK DESIMONE IN 1938 PISTOL WHIPPED AN INDIVIDUAL

ANDESE

BECEINED-СУГЕ

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

002

33TaUL.

- 2 -

HH

45839

DocId: 32576389

Page 2

---

