# docid-32338898

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10316

HQ

100-370750-172

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

BS

HQ

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/22/1950

2

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338898

Page 1

---

## Page 2

IRD FORM NO. 64

Office Memo

dum • UNITED

GOVERNMENT

-TO

• Director, FBI

FROM

• SaC, Boston

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

SECURITY MATTER * C

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-21

86 BY0145J

aglad

5664-540 n 626-95

(SE/

On May 5, 1950, BOS ND 560 made available a flyer announcing

a/"Deadline for Freedom Rally" to be held May 7, 1950, at the Boston

Conservatory Auditorium, 31 Hemenway Street, Boston, Massachusetts.

The

flyer announced that the meeting was to be sponsored by the "Committee

of 35", Suite 1503, 192 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York.

Also

appearing on the flyer was the fact that tickets could be obtained at

Suite #1, 726 Washington Street, Brockline, Massachusetts.

This is the

address of one Mrs. THEODORE RITA/GOLDSTEIN, known member of the Pro-

fessional Section of the Communist Party of

Boston and subject of a

Security Index Card in this office.

(BARSKY,

Featured speakers, according to the flyer, were Dr. EDWARD.K.

Chairman,

JAFRC; Mr. JOHN HOWARD LAWSON,

One of the Hollywood

Ten; Miss FLORENCE EUSCOMB; and Reverend KENNETH de F./HUGHES, Chairman

of the meeting,

Rector of St. Bartholomew's Church, Cambridge, Massa-

chusetts.

Special Agent ROBERT E. SUNKEL attended the above meeting.

All of the scheduled speakers were present.

As announced

there, the meeting was called to protest the

fact that the United States Supreme Court had refused to hear the cases

of 25 persons convicted of contempt of Congress because they had re-

fused to answer questions put to them at a hearing of the House Un-

American Activities Committee. These twenty-five included the

"Hollywood Ten".

The keynote of the meeting was set by Reverend HUGhES, Chair-

man, who expressed fear that the Bill of Rights was being subverted

when, as it appeared to him, Congress was being given tacit permission

by the Supreme Court to inquire into a man's politics.

This, he said,

was the case of the "25" whose cause they were pleading at the meeting.

Reverend HUGHES then introduced Dr. EDWARD K. BARSKY, whose

comments paralleled those made by HUGHES and added the thought that

the United States was heading for Fascism and imperialism by such

actions vite made the

GECONDED - 92

100-3374

cc Washington rierd

CC

110025222

100-21664

10018707

100-1843

100-24397

100-22093

100-16211

100-307

100-20765

5

NW 54460 DooId: 32338898

Page 2

---

