# docid-32291274

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10050

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-649

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291274

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date: 4/1/63

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

MM 509-C, on 2/12/63, advised that MILION "BUDDY"

SPITZER (Miami File 165-211) had taken over the operation

of the Sunshine Raly Club, Miami Beach, which is a card

FLA

playing, bookmaking and gambling hangout. On 3/12/63, this

source advised that SPITZER only controlled the operations

of the Sunshine Raly Club about two weeks and gave it up.

advised that on 3/8/63, the gub.

SANDO, a Cuban at 6955 Rue

Vendon, Miami Beach, Ela., for bookmaking. He said he learned -

there were two telephones in the apartment and that this was

a bookmaking operation controlled by SPITZER. MM 509-C, on

3/19/63, reported he heard SPITZER had recently been arrested

by the Miami Beach PD for bookmaking. On 3/26/63, this source

reported that he heard SPITZER was going to try to confine

his activities, hereafter to shylocking.

On 3/29/63, JOHN "SKIPPY"Y

QUARTARONE (Miami File

165-6), was arrested by the Dade County Department of Public

Safety, Miami, Fla.

He was charged with vagrancy and failure

Bureau (AM)

Miami

REG- 91.

621-32-649

RFF : cmw

EX-117

¿ 10 APR 3

1963

150

6 2 APP 12 1953

Approved: 105

Special Ageft in Charge

Sent

_M Per

NW 45760 DocId: 32291274 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

to appear on two old traffic charges. QUARTARONE was

also charged with operating a whicle with an invalid driver's

license. Located in QUARTARONE's automobile was a sack of

25 cent slugs,

apparently prepared for use in telephones.

QUARTARONE said he had come to Miami several days previously

to stand trial with RALPH GEORGE SHEA (Miami File 165-6) as

both were charged on 2/13/62, with "Entering without Breaking,

a Public Telephone Booth to commit a felony." This trial

however, has been postponed, to an undetermined date.

MM 609-C advised that subsequent to the arrest

of RALPH GEORGE SHEA, on 2/18/63, when he was charged with

"illegat dissemination of racing information" that SHEA is

again disseminating racing results, but the time lag is now

20 - 25 minutes after the horse

race is run.

PCI, furnished similar information

to the above and added that SHEA has only a few bookmaker

clients for his race results, because they believe he istoo

prone to arrest and his race

(cults are sometimes unzeliable.

IRS, Miami, on 3/28763, arrested NATHAN RANKEL,.

1410 Ocean Drive, Miami Beach, and FRANCISY

GRECO, 2512-

Washington Avenue, Miant Beach, and were charged with accepting

-bets-without purchasing a Federal gambling stamp. These two

were taking bets over a two-telephone set up in a house at

735 N.W. 123rd Street. IRS on the same date arrested JOSEPH

CHIERICO, operator of Sonny's Restaurant, 247 - 23rd St.

Miant Beach, which was the "check-in point" for this

operation. \ CHIERICO reportedly is a partner in the alleged

operation

with THOMAS ALTAMURA (Miami File 92-410).

FIA

OTHER 4

-2=

"NW 45760

DocId: 32291274 Page 3

---

