# docid-32304517

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10286-10147

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 166-951-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEE, IVAN D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/22/1964

PAGES: 23

SUBJECTS:

JEST, ASSOC, BOOKMAKING ACT, FINANCES, NUMEROUS

INTV, TELEPHONE RECORDS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304517

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Keñnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

ser

DI 166-124

to subject and no doubt would inform the subject of any contact

the FBI might make with her concerning MELVIN.

He also advised

that REMELE is of very poor moral character and in his opinion

would be untrustworthy.

Due to this information, no efforts

will be made to

interview REMELE at this time.

On 11/17/61, DL-208-PC advised that be has been

unable to obtain any

information to indicate that MELVIN is

acquainted with JOHN

ELINSTONE, who is allegedly the largest

bookmaker in the Dallas area.

Informant is of opinion that

I1 MELVIN is involved in bookmaking, it would be as a financial

backer. Due to his association with BILLY RAYXUAVIS, a Dallas

NeVADA

gambler, and GARLANDYPOLLARD, he would probably be a financial

backer of a book.

WiLLiAM RANDAVIS

The information mentioned in the details obtained

from Southwestern Bell Telephone Company was given to SA IVAN D.

LEE by Mrs.

BULA SETTLE, secretary, office of the Security

Supervisor.

The Albuquerque Division telephonically advised on

9/25/64, that they had received information from the Albuquerque

Police Department that five individuals were believed to be

operating in Albuquerque as bookmakers. They reportedly had

a $150,000.00 bank roll behind them.

Albuquerque advised that a telephone call had been

made to Dallas telephone number CH Y-9464, which was determined

to be the pay telephone at the Brookhaven

Country Club, Farmers

Branch, Texas.

According to the Police Department, they were fairly

certain that the football line was obtained

from an individual

at this number from a man named "DICK"

• He also advised that

some information had been obtained by the Police Department

indicating that Dallas may be getting the line from New York,

New York.

The Albuquerque Division indicated that the infor-

mation had been obtained from a very confidential source.

On 11/10/64, DL-185-C-TE advised that he had just

departed from MELVIN

in the downtown area of Dallas and learned

that MELVIN had just returned to the Dallas area from Las Vegas,

Nevada, on 10/9/64.

MELVIN indicated to the informant that

C

Cover Page

DocId: 32304517 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017 *

DL. 166-124

he (MELVIND

and WILLIAM RAY DAVIS had been in Las Vegas for

several days and lost a considerable amount of money.

(It is

noted that previous information received from another source

indicated that MELVIN departed Dallas, Texas, on 10/27/64, on

an out-of-town trip.) Informant advised that MELVIN indicated

he had returned to Dallas to attempt to raise money in order

that he could return to Las Vegas and attempt to recoup some

of the money he had lost.

On 11/20/64, DL-208-PC advised that in contacts with

MELVIN he had learned that WILLIAM RAY DAVIS had returned to

Dallas during the first part of November, 1964, from his trIp

to Las Vegas,

Nevada.

Informant stated that from talking with

MELVIN he could not ascertain whether MELVIN

had actually gone

to Las Vegas or to some other city.

Concerning telephone calls made from subject's apart-

as set forth in

New York City an

Port Clinton, Obia. Previous investigation in Dallas revealed

that JEAN NELSON is a

schoolteacher in the Dallas School System

and resides in Apartment 215 at 3919 Inwood Road, which is

located next door to the subject's apartment.

The yesident

at this apartment has advised that JEAN NELSON and the

subject are an close friendly terma and, accarding/teller, defen

manager, they date frequently.

Cover Page

DocId: 32304517

Page 3

---

