# docid-32401016

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10145-10175

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

: CIA

BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D., OLC

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD: MEETING WITH HSCA CHIEF

COUNSEL G. ROBERT BLAKEY.

06/20/1978

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS : MEXICO AGENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

.

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/07/93

COMMENTS : JFK59 : F9: 1993.08.07.11:32:01:000059

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10145-10175

HH 53294

DooId: 32401016

Page

---

## Page 2

50B chions

OLC: 78-2406/2

20 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with HSCA Chief Counsel G. Robert Blakey

I. In the course of a meeting with Mr. Blakey this morning, we

discussed the method by which questions would be put to the agent

in Mexico. It developed that he has in mind two agents, the one about

whom we knew (Durant) and one with which we were not familiar

(Manuel Calvillo). I think he was not entirely clear as to these two

people, although his alternative approaches place on us a requirement

to be sure that we identify them properly for purposes of his questions.

They are discussed below:

a. Durant. He recalled that Durant operated the photo-

graphic surveillance post of the Soviet Embassy. I told

him that I understood that Durant was in charge of the

Cuban coverage.

b. Manuel Calvillo. He understood that Calvillo ran the

Cuban photographic surveillance site. Beyond this,

however, Calvillo was of interest to him for other

reasons. Elena Garo dePaz told of seeing Oswald at

various parties in Mexico City, at the time of his

visit there in 1963. She al so said that 'a couple of

days" after the assassination of President Kennedy,

Calvillo picked her up, took her to a hotel and inter-

rogated her.

2. Given the possible confusion of who operated the Cuban and

Soviet OPs, MI. Blakey said that he would want the individuals

correctly identified and have the questions addressed to them.

3. Additionally, Mr. Blakey wants such information as we have

on Calvillo.

OLC: SDB:kjw (21 June 1978),

Distribution: Original - OLC Chrono

PCS/LOC (Shepanek)

OS (Sullivan SECRI

OIG (Young)

1Tw 53291 DocId:32101016nBage dashalat)

S. D. BRECKINRIDGE

21652

ZIMPDET CL DY 13190

---

