# docid-32305509

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10288-10139

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-780

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, PH

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/30/1962

ABR, AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9 1

DocId: 32305509

436

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

5T

11-30-62

1 - Mr, Belmont

1 - Mr. Evans

airtel

To:

SAC, Philadelphia

From: Director, FBI

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA

JUNE

Kin

In response to your teletype request dated 11-19-62, Bureau Laboratory

Supervisors James T. Freeman, William E. Harward and Winton P

Walter

travelled to the Philadelphia Office on 11-26-62, made preparations for, and

installed on the night of 11-27-6%, a Concealed Automobile Transmitter (CAT)

in an automobile involved in above captioned case. The CAT equipment was tested

at the conclusion of the installation and same operated satisfactorily.

The following technically trained personnel of the Philadelphia Office (in

addition to other personnel of that office) were present at the CAT installation:

SA J. Robert Pearce, SA James J. Finley and Electronic Maintenance Technician

James P. Creed. These men received limited technical training in the

installation, use, and removal of CAT equipment and are, therefore, considered

qualified to replace or remove the CAT equipment now in use in this specific

case and to handle the tape recording in a Bureau automobile of information

received from the CAT.

service, your office should contact the Bureau, attention Laboratory, regarding

o your die thou one,

Should the CAT equipment, at a later date, be in need of repair or other

any special information or equipment needed.

WP W:cf (11)

pen

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

*Tele. Room,

Holmery t

Gandi

119.

REC-71

РУДОМУ ВИЕ ПІЛІИ

DA TELETIRE

11/19/63

PREVI00SE4

FILE. DO

AOA 30

92-2717=780

DECEIAED • COMSYD

I DEC 6 196:

Init

- ROOMI

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32305509 Page 2

---

