# docid-32341409

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

: 104-10015-10056

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 201-289248

' .-

.....

Released under the John

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

b6-06-2017

May 16, 1997

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 1

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the Review Board voted to postpone information

tending to identify this informant. In so doing, the Board concluded that the requirements of Section 6(4)

of the JFK Act were satisfied.

Substitute Language: Location

Release Date: 12/2006

Board Review Completed: 12/17/96

4

33199

Dо01d:32341409

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date:

05/29/97

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

= =.

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10015-10056

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ACTING CHIEF, SR DIVISION, CIA

TO : ASST. DEP DIR,

PLANS, CIA

TITLE : CONTACT OF LEE OSWALD WITH VALERIY V. KOSTIKOV, KGB DEPT

13 OFFICER.

DATE:

11/23/63

PAGES :

7

SUBJECTS : KGB CONTACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/02/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : OSW1:V3 1993.12.02.15:57:12:060028:

...._-

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DooId:32341409

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Arones:

OLONCI

DD/P 3-5938

23 November 1963

£X-25550

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM:

Acting Chief, SR DivISIOn S

SUBJECT:

Contact of Lee OSWALD with a member of Soviet KGB

Assassination Department

1. According to an intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWALD

was at the Soviet Embassy there on 28' September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV. - This was learned when OSWALD called

the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, Identifying himself by name and speaking

broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "anything new concerning the telegram to Washington."

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but

nothing had as yet been received.

(MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The

FBI liaison

officer, Mr. Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to

believe

that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for a U.s. passport or

visa matter perhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles •

2. KOSTIKOV is an identified KGB officer. He was a case officer in an

operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department (responsible

for sabotage and assassination). This operation, which is controlled by the

F'Bl under the cryptonym TUMBLEWEED, involved a German-national resident of

Oklahoma who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV in Mexico

City and shortly therealter with a known 13th Department officer, Oleg BRYKIN,

in New York.

the instructions given TUMBLIWEHD by the two officers, (pinpointing

objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in the case,

left no doubt that both of them were working for the same KGB component, the

3. Of course it is not usual for a KGB agent on a sensitive mission to

have

such overt contact with & Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secret

Soviet intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which

show that very important agents can be met in official installations using as

cover for their presence there some sort of open business: Vice Admiral

MIRAGEL PANCRAM

P/C

10H30X

LEROE FOR MISING

Document Number

for FOIA Review on

11,908

BITEST.

LODE

MOLE BOR CUED

KEN CO)

FOR Tita

RECORD COPY

-538

APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

1 6 APR 1971

CONDUCTED ON

EZ IMPDET CL BY 012208

23710263

201-289248

HH

53199 Dold: 32341409 Page 3

---

## Page 4

aunt.

-2 =

L. BEKRENEV, in a top secret lecture to a Soviet Military Intelligence course

at Military-Diplomatic Academy, 1960, said,

"Case officers who use as cover, let us say, the Soviet Trade,

Representation, TASS or Sovinformburo, can use their cover

assignments as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings with

certain agents whose particular activities officially associate

them with the previously mentioned Soviet institutions. However,

such non-clandestine meetings within a legal residency should be

restricted to a minimum both as 'to place and time. Meetings of

this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and reliable agents in order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation

being used as cover. Such meetings are held as a rule. in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It 1s necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of outsiders, and that the receipt

and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures against

tapping must be taken. One must bear in mind that a meeting with

persons outside official premises and during non-working hours usually

signifies a relationshiy

between the two parties that is above and

beyond official matters."

Also, such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's own

carelessness. Again Admiral BEKRENEV speaks:

"Some agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate

violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal

rashness,.... approached our case officers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others telephoned the case officer at

• his Soviet installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,

whtle others still showed up personally at the Soviet Installation ini

order to contact the case officer.

4. I called the above connections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by

phone to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November.

HH 53199

DocId: 32341409 Page 4

---

## Page 5

3-

5. I am attaching

1) a summary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and.

2) all valid background information now available on the work

of the 13th Department of the Foreign Intelligence of the KGB:

Service it team 198, the So let state on TADLE.

Action, got Ass ss napping and Assassination -- Bxecutive

c. Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

at pagley

Chief, SR/CI

SECRET

HH 53199

DocId: 32341409

Page 5

---

## Page 6

ADET:

SUBJECT: Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

KOSTIKOV, who was born on 17 March 1933 in Moscow, was

assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City as Vice Consul

on 19 September 1961.

A fluent Spanish

speaker, he had travelled abroad at least

three times before

this permanent assignment; moreover, in 4959

KOSTIKOV applied for a visa to accompany Premier Nikita sergeye-

vich KHRUSHCHEV's party to the United States as an official of

the soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we have no record

of his having come to this country at that time.

KOSTIKOV

served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madrid

and Barcelona in 1958 and 1959.

In late 1959 and early 1960

he attended Soviet exhibitions in Mexico City and Havana; he

is known to have been in Cuba from 6 January to T March 1960.

The physical description

of KOSTIKOV quite accurately fits

that of a Soviet case officer who nearly a year ago met in

Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent.

This double agent's

Soviet case officer in the United States has been Oleg Danile-

vich BRYKIN of the Thirteenth Department, KGB First Chief

Directorate, occupying the overt

position of translator-trainee,

U.N. Secretariat, New York City.

BRYKIN was stationed in New

York City from December 1960 to July of this year.

Since arriving in Mexico, KOSTIKOV is known to have travelled

three times outside the capital: In March 1963 and again for the

first two weeks of September he went to Tijuana, Ensenada, and

Mexicali, ostensibly for the purpose of purchasing cotton.

U.S. Department of State, however, has reported that during

these trips KOSTIKOV met

local representatives of Movimento

Liberation National and Central Compesina Independienta, both

Iarge Communist front organizations.

In addition, according to

FBI sources, KOSTIKOV was accompanied on the

September trip by

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV, and he contacted in Ensenada several

persons including Communist sympathizers who previously had been

associated with Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, a PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close

contact with Cuban diplomats and local Communist leaders during

a February 1962 visit to Quito.

ULUNLI

HW 53199

DocId:32341409 Page 6

---

## Page 7

263537

1018519

Date: 07/28/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10015-10056

RECORD SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

CIA

: ACTING CHIEF, SR DIVISION, CIA

: ASST. DEP DIR,

PLANS,

CIA

CONTACT OF LEE OSWALD WITH VALERIY V. KOSTIKOV, KGB

DEPT 13 OFFICER.

DATE

:

11/23/1963

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS : KGB CONTACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEE

CLASSIFICATION : SECRE

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:12/02/93

COMMENTS : OSW1 : V3: 1993.12.02.15:57:12:060028

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10015-10056

HH 53199

DocId: 32341409

Page

---

## Page 8

SIFUNCLASSINED E

INTERNAL

LE SUSE ONLY

CE COLRDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECTI

- (Optionall

ROM

RID/AN

alie

5x - 11056

23 Nou 63

OFFICER

COMMENTS: (MU

CURA

10

12

-ciassified and Approved for Release

the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2003

13

MORM S61091204

19 305, boota: 32905 Sage

201289248

T CONFIDENTIAL SAM USE BAL

T UNCLASSIFTED

---

## Page 9

CEON

DD/P 3-5958

23 November 1963

£X-25550

MEMORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM:

Acting Chief, SR DIVIBIOn G

SUBJECT:

O contact

of Lee OSWALD with a member of Soviet KGB

Assassination Department

1. According to an intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSKALI

was at the Soviet Embassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valerly Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV. This was learned when OSWALD called

the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, Identifying-himself by name and speaking

broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "anything new concerning the telegran to Washington.

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but

nothing had as yet been received.

(MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI liaison

officer, Mr. Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to??

that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for & U.S. passport or

visa matter [perhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles.

2. KOSTIKOV is an identified KGB officer.

He was a case officer in an

operation which is evidently sponsored by the KGB's 13th Department (responsible

for sabotage and assassination) this operation, which is controlled by the

FBI under the cryptonym TUMBLEWEED, Involved a Germen-national resident of

Oklahoma who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSTIKOV In Mexico

City and shortly thereafter with a known 13th Department officer, Oleg BRYKIN,

in New York. The instructions given TUMBLEWEED by the two officers, (pinpointing

objectives for sabotage) and the circumstances of their involvement in the case,

left no doubt that both of them were working for the same KGB component, the

3. Of course it 1s not usual for a KGB agent on a sensitive mission to

have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy.

However, we have top secret

Soviet Intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which

show that very important agents can be met in official installations using as

cover for their presence there some sort of open business: Vice

Admiral

JENNEL PERCSAM

2.4H

- i.

C5SC

HER TIKE

Document Number

8-538

for FOIA Review on

APR 1975 CUASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1971

EZ IMPDET CL BY RIBBES

RECORD COPY

23 M0043

201-289248

HH 53199 DocId:32341409 Page 9

---

## Page 10

-2 .

L. BEKRENEV, in a top secret lecture to a Soviet Military Intelligence course

at M1l1tary-Diplomatic Academy, 1960, said,

"Case officers who use as cover, let us sey, the Soviet Trade

Representation, TASS or Sovinformburo, can use their cover

assignments as backstopping for non-clandestine meetings vith

certain agents whose particular activities officially associate

them with the previously mentioned Soviet Institutions. However,

such non-clandestine meetings within a legal residency should be

restricted to a minimun both as to place and time. Meetings of

this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and rellable agents in order to avoid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation

being used as cover.

Such meetings are held as a rule in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It Is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of outsiders; and that the receipt

and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures against

tapping must be taken. One must

bear in mind that a meeting with

persons outside officiel premises and during non-working hours usually

signifies a relationship between the two parties that is above and

beyond official matters."

Also, such contact in official installations may be caused by the agent's owa

carelessness. Again Admiral BEKRENEV speaks:

"Some agents, because of inexperience or because of deliberate

violation of the rules of security through peculiar personal

rashness,.... approached our case officers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites, others telephoned the case officer at

his Soviet Installation and discussed personal contact arrangements,

while others still showed up personally at the Soviet installation in

order to contact the case officer."

4. I called the above connections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by

phone to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November.

feat.

o...

HH 53199

DocId: 32341409

Page 10

---

## Page 11

- 3

5. I am attaching

1) a summary of our information on KOSTIKOV; and.

2) all valid background Information now available on the work

of the 13th Department of the Foreign Intelligence of the KGB:

xtracte from Report on the soviet state securit

service (KGB), dated May 1963, based on information fron AFLADLE

Soviet Use of Kidnapping and Assassination -- Executive

Action, dated August 1960.

Soviet Strategic Executive Action, dated October 1961.

Bag

Chief, SR/CI

HH 53199

DocId: 32341409

Page

11

---

## Page 12

SUBJECT: Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSFIKOV

KOSTIKOV, who was born on IT March 1933 in Moscow, was

assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City as Vice Consul

on 19 September 1961.

A fluent Spanish speaker, he had travelled abroad at least

three times before this permanent sssignment; moreover, in 1959

KOSTIKOV applied for a visa to acconpany Premier Nikita Sergeye-

vich KHRUSHCHEV's party to the United States as an official of

the soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but ve have no record

of his having come to this country at that time.

KOSTIKOV

served as an interpreter at international conferences at Madrid

and Barcelona in 1958 and 1959.

In Iste 1959 and early 1960

he attended Soviet exhibitions in Mexico City and Havana; he

is known to have been in Cuba Proe 6 January to T March 1960.

The physical description of LOSTIKOV quite accurately fits

that of a soviet case officer sho nearly a year ago met in

Mexico an FBI-controlled double agent.

This double agent's

Soviet case officer in the United States has been Oleg Danile-

vich BRIKIN of the Thirteenth Departnent, KGB First Chief

Directorate, occupying the overt position of translator-trainee,

U.N. Secretariat, New York City.

BRYKIN waS

stationed in New

York City from December 1960 to July of this year.

Since arriving in Mexico, KOSTIKOY is known to have travelled

three times outside the capital:

In March 1963 and again for the

first two weeks of September be

vent to Tijuana, Ensenada, and

Mexicali, ostensibly for the purpose of purchasing cotton.

The

U.S. Department of State, hovever, has reported that during

these trips KOSTIKOV met local representatives of Movimento

Liberation National and Central Corpesina Independienta, both

large Communist front organizations.

In addition, according to

FBI sources, KOSTIKOV was accompanied on the September trip by

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV, and be contacted in Ensenada several

persons including Communist sympathizers who previously had been

associated with Soviet officials stationed in Mexico City.

ALFERYEV, & PRAVDA correspondent in Mexico, was in close

contact with

Cub an

diplomats

and local Communist leaders during

February 1962 visit to Quito.

-SEORET

HH 53199 DocId:32341409 Page 12

---

## Page 13

5X-11056

23 November 1953

0F 5X-

25050

belaw.

MIORAIDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plana

Acting Chief, SR Division

SUBJEC

Contact of Lee OSHALD vith a member of Boviet KCB

Assasainstion Deperthent

SOSR MeMo Me OSWALD Contact with Valeriy

V.

KOSTIKOV, KGB Dept. 13 Officer.

1. Accarding to en Intercepted phone call in lexico City, LeA OSHALD

vas at the soviet Embassy there on 28 Septenber 1963 and spoke with the

Consul, Valerty Vadiairovich HOSIlKOY. This was learsed when OSHAID called

the sarlet Inbassy on 1 October, Identifying hinself by none and speaking

broken Russien, stating the sbove and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "anything new concerning the telegian to lashington."

The guard checited and then tald OSWALD that & request had been sent, but

nothing had as yet been received. (MEXI 6453, 9 October 1963) The FBI 11a180n

officer, Mr. Fernich, told me on 23 lovenber that the Bureau hae reason to

belleve that OSWAlD's vlelt was to get sovlet support for a U.S. passport or

visa matter Eperbaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles:

2.

KOSTIKOV is an Identified KGB officer.

HE VAS a CASE OfIICCI In En

0r02

RI Redial

I...

operation which is evidently spongred by the KGB's 13th Department (responsible

for sabotage and 8568851084101) L

his operation, wich is controlled by the

FBI under the cryptonya JUMBLENED, involved & Cerman-national resident of

Dional who was recruited in Europe, and met this year with KOSMIKOV, in Mexico

City and shortly thereafter with a kron 13th Departent officer, Oleg BRIKIN,

In few fork. The instructions given Tuatesd by the two officers, plapolnting

objectives for sebotage) and the circumstances of their farolvenut in the case,

1stne, dour that both or then were working for the won al egonet, the

3.

Of course it 1s not usual for a Ill agent on a sensitive mission to

have such overt contact with a soviet Embassy.

However, we have top secret

Soviet Intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which

shor that very important agents can be net in official installations uaing as

cover for their presence there some sort of open business: Vice Admiral

1 att.

201-289248

dallas

REVIEWES COPIN/JFK TASK RORCE

FBI INFO

CASINO Y 5O68 SAD ON 1195 pen

O RELEASE IN FULL

cassily 0u.

RELEASE IN PART

JFK)

TOTAL DENIAL

lett

see

from

Bune, t4.

- 15 Sepa

HH 53199 DocId:32341409 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SUEJECT:

Valeriy VIadiESTOrICH ROSTIRON (201-305052)

LOSTIKOY. WhO MES bOTE on IT March 1933 19 Koscor, tea

sarfERed to the loviet Babassy In MoXiCO City de Vlee Consul

on 19 Bopterber 1961-

A Iluent Spanish speaker, he bad travelled abroad at least

three theos before this permanent asslEstent; noreover, in 1959

KOSTIKOV applied for a rise to aCCOupOnS PIerleT Sikita Sergeye-

rich XHRUSICHEVs party to the Ualted Stated se

an afficial of

the Bordet KInIatIY of forcien AlfalsE, but ve hare so record

of his hatlue cose to this country at that tise.

FOSEIROV

serrad ds so interproter et International' conferences at hadrid

and BarCalOnE 1D 1958 and 1959.

In Late 1959 and carty 1960

he attended soviet exhibitlona

In Metico City end Havanas he

dentifi it the the to

Ine physIeEl deseriptios Of KOSTIlOTpalte decurately rite

a JORE AEO sEt LA

ReXICO RA iBINCOntIalled dOuDiE AgENt!

This double agent's

Sarlet case officer ho the united stetes ano been.

- 010€

rICh BEIKIN Of the Thirteenth Depsitsent, KOB FITSE Chiet

Directorate, occupyias the orart position of trencletor trainee.

Ul. Secreterlat,

Xork City from Decenber 2960 to July at tute 20er75

York CIt5• BRIKIE WAS Etationed 1n Her

SLECE GLIÍVIDE dE MESiCE,

kostIkov 15 deowa to have travelled

three tinee outaide the capitals In March 1963 and agala lor the

11xst two weeks of septerber he vent to fijuana, Basenede, and

Hexicals, ostensibly sor the purpose of purchasing cotton.

The

U.5. Desertsent of Stete, dovever, has reported thet duriae

BEBE SIIFE ROSIIYOV Hat lOcal representatives or Marinente

L1beration lational and Contrul CorrestnE Indenendiente, bott

LEIgE COMMUnIEt fIOnt OrgenisEtionE.

In RedItIOn, sccording to

IBI SORICOS, KOSTIKOV vaS aCcoRIanied on the SepteRber tIlE by

ITAS GaYIIlOTiCh ALFERYEV, and be contacted la Insenada severei

TaIsons IncLudlhE COSsuLiSt sympathizers who pIer cueli had been

associated vith soviet criicials atationed in Mesico City.

ALFEBIEV. A PRAYDA COFFESPODGORE IS KEXICO, WAS IN CLOSE

contact vita

Cuban

diploneto and local Connutlet leaders durins

a February 1962 vialt to Quito.

1/2a/63 cheat at NSA itorared ligit of Hat Diseat, drone ye

datin 10/10/63 used-s

Tate rankie had Repent seier!

was need of thirt of 24,000 talks of sottin,

8121195

1311N50

5668 Sholnde

HH 53199

Do01d:32341409 Page 14

---

## Page 15

..

Wife:

Rosa Aleksandrovna, born 2 March 1932 Arkhamgel Oblast.

Daughter: Svetlana Valerievna born 1959, Moscow.

Wife and daughter accompanied Subject to Mexico.

Graduate of Foreign Language Institute and/or Institute of

Foreign Affairs, Moscow.

From 30 June to 10 July 1959 was at the Electrotechnical

409@06994-2240244-707

Congress in Madrid; attended a conference in Madrid

and Barcelona in 1958.

November 1959 to 6 January 1960 - Soviet Exposition in

Mexico City.

6 JANUMA 1960-10 AUTO ACCIDENT AT VERA CRUZ.

Contacts in Ensenada, Baja, California, September 1963:

1. Daily' with Isaak Kaflos "CHAPLUK" (201-229418) "***

and with CHAPLUK's son.

2.

7 September, stayed 45 minutes at Nun'a "SIMANOVKA'S

Curio

shop.

7 September, dinner with Miguel POPOFF (201-286055)

Note that ALFEREV claimed that he was a guest of the party of

Eva Samano de Lopez MATEOS, wife of the President

of Mexico,

Adolfo Lopez MATEOS. On the trip

to Baja, California; Mrs.

Lopez was

attending a Congress

of the National Institute for

the Protection of Children.

r....

201-289248

HH 53199 DocId:32341409 Page 15

---

