# docid-32585594

## Page 1

0-73 (Rev. 1-30-74)

FAESSAGE RELA

Date

14/7

Transmit in

PLANTEXT

(plaintext or code)

*****

- via teletype the attached NITEL

(precedence)

message.

*

FROM:

Director, FBI (92-3171)

TO:

RUEADWW/

RUEADWW/

FIELD DISSEMINATION

SACSCHICAGO

NEW ORLE ANS

RUEADWW /

RUEHOC/

RUEAlIA/

RUEKJCS/

RUEACSI/

RUEBGFA/

RUEOLKN/

RUEADSS/

RUEBWJA/

RUEBWJA/

RUEBWJA/

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIET D OGUINS

UNTING

ADVISAND

DATE

RUEBWJA/

RUEOIAA/

RUEOGBA/

The President

The Vice President

J Att.:

White House Situation Room

• Att.:

O103

BE DELAA

Secretary of State

Director, CIA

DATE: 10/5/85 P.

ITSE (DRC)

Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

LEGATS:

• and National Indications Center

Department of the Army

Department of the Air Force (AFOSI)

Naval Investigative Service

• U. S. Secret Service (PID)

Attorney General ( [J By messenger)

Deputy Attorney General ( [ By messenger)

Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Divigi

- and Internal Security Section

J and General Crimes Section

Immigration & Naturalization Servire

National Security Agency (DIRNSA SOC (Att.: SOO»

Federal Aviation Administration

REC-16

92-3111- 2511

Assoc. Dir.

Classification: (Classify if to other than Bureau Office)

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

SUBJECT;SEE ATTACHE

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

KMR:bvm (2)

Ident.

Inspection.

Text of message begins on next page.

395R09/ Bur

COMIMONICATIONS SECTION

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

JAN 1:1975

Spec. Inv. -

raini!

Foreign Liaison Uni

Route through for reviev

Cleared telephonically.

with

Teled

Director Sooty -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT C

preal 9-112207678 RFS

64x/s5

CRIB /ECL

19194-764

N. /5/46.

EY5668-30661

HH

45792

DocId: 32585594

Page

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 1 0 1975

6:30 PM NITEL 1/10/75 MUD

TELETYPE

TO

DIRECTOR

(92-3171)

NR D21-1D

FROM

LEGAT MEXICO CITY (92-13)

SPONG INTERED

CLASSIFTED +

VIEN COMMETTES (DRC)

BY DEPARE

108 A PROPRIME AGE

INCIES

SAMUEL

GIANCANA,

AKA STAR

DECLASSIFIED BY SPACICKL

0x 3/5/94

AND FITD

ÍCES

ADVISID E

SLIP (5)

DATE_

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Acm..

Dep.-A.D.-JIv: _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp.

Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection -

Intell.

Laboratory

SEES EJ OR

SIDE FORN

REBUCAB JANUARY 8, 1975.U

THERE ARE NUMEROUS INDICATIONS THAT THE MEXICO CITY

ATTORNEY JORGE CASTILLO ZEPEDA, OFFICES AT PLAZA DE LA

REPUBLICA 32-1, TELEPHONE 566-8245 AND 566-5900, RESIDENCE

LAVA135, PEDREGAL, TELEPHONE 568-1570, HAS BEEN SUBJECT'S

LEGAL REPRESENTATION IN MEXICO SINCE 1966. MEXICAN

5K

IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS HAVE CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED THAT

• CASTILLO APPROACHED MEXICAN IMMIGRATION ON BEHALF OF

(/12/8

OADR

essin on:

9-ff

98458414185

GIANCANA ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS.

HOWEVER, THIS INFORMATION

WAS RECEIVED ON A VERY CONFIDE

AL BASIS AND WITNESSES OR

DOCUMENTATION MAY BE VERY DIFFICULT IO OBVAL

23171-2588

IT IS POINTED OUT THAT THE MEXICAN PRESIDENT IS KNOWN

TO BE CURRENTLY PREOCCUPIED CONCERNING POSSIBLE CLANDES TANIAN 17 1975

ACTIVITIES OF FBI AND CIA IN MEXICO AND MEXICAN GOVERNA

WOULD BE SENSITIVE TO ANY CRITICISM ON THE PART OF SUBJECI

SEASSA

& EXT. BY B3

31er

END PAGE ONE

REASON-#

KONY

DITE OF REVIEW.

0-25-87

Rela

SACI

1.10.75

ALI INTONATION COME DA SEEDBY SPRCLE/KS

HEREIN IS ICLISTRIED REASON

E1A0 SEIN

DECLASSIF/ UV:

OURSENISE

HH

45792

DocId: 32585594

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOM

TRECIOR

831719)

NR

FROME LEGAI

MEXICO CITY(92-13)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKASEAR AU

APPPOP-TATE AGENCIES

AND IT? POETES

SITP (5) 05

molection

JANUARY 13, 1975.

10/28/28

LEGAT MEXICO CITY ADVISED

STATIS

FOLLOWING INFORMATION RECEIVED JANUARY 14, 1975, FROM

MEX 170

SHOULD BE OF BENEFIT ESPECIALLY IN ANY LEADS TO

CHECK WITH INS

JORGE CASTILLO, AKA JORGE CASTILLO ZEPEDA, REPORTEDLY

BORN APRIL 28, 1920, SHREVEPORT, LOUISIANA; MARRIED FEBRUARY 28,

1948, TO MARIA LUISA CARRANZA IRIZAR REPEAT IRIZAR DE CASTILLO,

WHO WAS BORN APRIL 23, 1927, TOLUCA, MEXICO. ONE OF HIS

SONS IS MAURICIO GERARDO CASTILLO CARRANZA, BORN JUNE 5, 1958,

MEXICO CITYSE

SHOULD HAVE RECORD:

SOM BELIEVED TO HAVE STUDIES IN UNITED STATES AND SNE

IRS HAS NOT YET CONTACTED MAX GLUCK• YE U

- BURDAU REQUESTED TO

C AGO ANDS

END

TOTAL DENIAL

32009-

125%

351/s 9.828

2, 3

SINITE

HEWED BY POS

ORLEANS

1n810

ASE IN FUQL

LEASE IN PART

74 45792 DocId: 32585594

Page 3

---

## Page 4

¿DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 1 4 1975

Aase. Dir.

SNI REVERPEA D.-Adm

Dep.-A.D.-1nV.

SIDN

CLASSIFIUD DECISIONS IINALIZED

I COATTEE (DROTELENYPE

SONDAD:

10/8/85

4:33

ACH My Comp. Syst.

'Ext. Affasse

Files & Com.

19Un7d

Gen. Inv. -

tess

05RmB/Ga%/44-JFK.)

Ident.

Inspection -

Intell.

red bySP5R

Laborator

TO

FROM

PM NITEL 1/14/75 MOD

DIRECIOR 192-3171)

NR 033-14

LEGAT MEXICO CITY. (92-13)

Coral 6-1125

1678 Pielephone Ri. -

SAMUEL M.

AND ETZ!

ADVISED

REMYTEL JANUARY 13,

1975.U

DECLASSIFIED BY SPACK KIL

ON

2264

4

FOLLOWING

INFORMATION RECEIVED JANUARY 14, 1975, FROM

179%

AND

SHOULD BE OF BENEFIT ESPECIALLY IN ANY LEADS 1O

CHECK WITH

INSC

JORGE/CASTILLO, AKA JORGE/CASTILLO ZEPEDA, REPORTEDLY

CEASSIFIED

BORN

APRIL 28, 1920, SHREVEPORI, LOUISIANA; MARRIED FEBRUARY 28,

1948, TO MARIA LUISA CARRANZA/IRIZAR REPEAT IRIZAR DE CASTILLO,

DE

WHO WAS BORN APRIL 23 1927 TOLUCA MEXICO, ONE OF HIS

CE INERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SONS IS MAURICIO GERARDO CASTILLO/CARRANZA, BORN JUNE 5, 1958,

POS MEXICO CITY. 08

EX-105

REC-53

92

317/-

57510

SON BELIEVED TO HAVE STUDIED IN UNITED STATES ANDIGNSO BY FEWIFK TASK FORCE

SHOULD HAVE RECORD.

\hus

7/17/98 006

IRS HAS NOT YET CONTACTED MAX GLUCK• MI:=

L

RELSASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

BUREAU REQUESTED TO ADVISE SACS,

CHICAGO AND NEW ABKHANSNIAL

END

BY 1259

Тено 9858

DANS

1837 VeTE

FEASON-FCIM II,

DANI CE

15-8

NH 45792

DocId: 32585594

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEX

92-13

PAGE TWO

OR HIS ATTORNEY ALLEGING FBI ACTIVIES OR PRESSURES BROUGHT

AGAINST SUBJECT IN MEXICO.

X4)

IT IS NOT

BELIEVED THAT SOURCES SUCH AS MEX 170) AND

CS MEX 287

WHO HAVE IDENTIFIED CASTILLO AS SUBJECT'S

ATTORNEY, COULD EVER BE AVAILABLE TO TESTIFY AS TO THIS

INFORMATION. HOWEVER, IT IS CONSIDERED THAT THERE ARE

VARIOUS POTENTIAL WITNESS POSSIBLY AVAILABLE FOR SUBPOENA

IN THE UNITED STATES TO ESTABLISH THIS RELATIONSHIP. FOR

EXAMPLE:

ALBERT M.

ANDREAS BUFILE 164-192) WHO APPARENILY SOLD

THE NUBES HOUSE TO SUBJECT THROUGH CASTILLO. NOT KNOWN IF

EVER INTERVIEWED

и

HARRIETTE BLAKE CAIN, FORMER WIFE OF RICHARD CAIN

WHO UTILIZED CASTILLO AS ATTORNEY AND UNDOUBTEDLY PUT IN

TOUCH WITH HIM THROUGH CAIN AND/OR SUBJECT. SHE WOULD

NOW ABOUT THE NUBES HOUSE HAVING VISITED THERE.

AN ESPECIALLY EFFECTIVE WITNESS MIGHT BE SUBJECT •S

FORMER SERVANT CELSO CARRETO INTERVIEWED IWICE BY NEWARK

AND POSSIBLY STILL AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW AND /OR SUBPOENA. AU)

END PAGE TWO

HH 45792 DoOId: 32585594 Pade 5

---

