# docid-32299999

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10279

HQ

2-1499-2ND NR 137

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/13/1967

3

FS, PLANS, BLOW UP, CUBAN SHIP, MEXICAN PORT,

ALLEGED PLOT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299999

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released uhder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(Rey. I-27=06)

DECODED COPY

Conf

xx CABLEGRAM

RADIO

• AIRGRAM

STATE 014

URGENT 4-73-67

@ DIRECTOR

TELETYPE

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohi -

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt —

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

SECRET

CLASSIFIED AND

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 192

REASON F

FCIM, I1, 1-

DATE DEALT

FOR

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DECLASSICA UN 68-SED

HARBIN IS UNCLAGSIFIED

EXCEPE WIZRE SHOWN

JFA

UNSHOWN SUBJECISEPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP GUBAN SIAP AT

MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ. INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA. U

LD/KSR

JFK

11-18-9

5668

-272V

SSIFY ON:

REFERENCE BUREAU CABLE APRIL 12, LAST.

ON APRIL 13, INSTANT, INFORMATION CONGERNING THE ALLEGED

PLOT, POSSIBLY INVOLVING FRANK FLORINI, WAS FURNISHED TO

RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA, UNDER SECRETARY OF INTERIOR (GOVERNMENT)

AT MEXICO CITY. HE STATED THAT HE WOULD HAVE INQUIRY MADE AT

MATAMOROS, TAMAULIPAS, CONCERNING THE ENTRY INTO MEXICO OF THE

SUSPECTS AND THEIR AUTOMOBILE

165503-

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

ON APRIL 13, INSTANT, FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS, DIRECTOR,

MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE, WAS CONTACTED AND STATED THAT

HE HAD ALREADY BEEN ORDERED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

TO

6/14

83

Classified b

teclassi on.

per release

190-14827-7

SP3CLC/GCL

Classified

Excrat from

GD

Date c. Dacte

для

Categor

cation Inde

8-1

1 per

2=1499=

NVOTRECORDED

COZAAY 191967-

on porc

If the

above message

iste

- ANO NIS

suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32299999

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-5 (Rev. 1-27÷66)

PIERETO DED COPY

• AIRGRAM

* CABLEGRAN

RADIO

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO 192

TELETYPE

Tolson.

De Logch

Mohr

Wick

-

Casper.

Callahan .

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy -

INITIATE IMMEDIATE INVESTIGATION BASED UPON THE ABOVE CONTACT.

GUTIERREZ STATED THAT THERE ARE PRESENTLY NO CUBAN SHIPS IN

MEXICAN PORTS. HOWEVER, TWO SOVIET SHIPS ARE ARRIVING AT

VERACRUZ, VERACRUZ APRIL 13, INSTANT. GUTIERREZ FELT THAT THE

PORT OF TAMPICO, TAMAULIPAS, MIGHT BE A MORE LOGIÇAL TARGET

AREA DUE TO ITS PROXIMITY TO THE UNITED STATES BORDER. GUTIERREZ

ADVISED HE WOULD IMMEDIATELY FURNISH ANY POSITIVE RESULTS OF I

INVESTIGATION BY HIS SERVICE.

ON APRIL 13, INSTANT, THE AMERICAN CONSULATE, VERACRUZ, WAS

ADVISED OF THE ALLEGED PLOT. VICE CONSUL REPORTED THAT NO

CUBAN SHIP OR VESSEL OF ANY TYPE HAS BEEN IN THE PORTS OF

VERACRUZ OR CCATZACOALCOS, VERACRUZ, FOR AT LEAST ONE YEAR.

RUSSIAN AND EAST GERMAN SHIPS CALLING AT VERACRUZ USUALLY STOP

AT HAVANA, CUBA, OUTBOUND FROM VERACRUZ. THE EAST GERMAN

SHAD TILODOR KOERNER IS DUE LA VERACRUE ON APRIL 15A INSTANT

AND A SOVIET VESSEL IS ALSO EXPECTED.

ADMINISTRATUE:

MEX-56

ALSO ADVISED. AMERICAN CONSULATE, VERACRUZ WILL.

REVIEWED BY

BUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

°28/96 nya da

RELEASE IN FULL

SECRET

RE: BASE IN FART

C: +101

+-1499-2N0 AR137

Ine inellence coldined in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32299999 Page 3

---

