# docid-32289177

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10453

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-296

Released under the John

F. Rennedy

Assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45839 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ANDREWS, LEON F. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/14/1963

'PAGES:

.36

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MEMBERS, VAUGHN MEADER SHOW, BUSS,

GAMBLING ACT, TESUR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1a

v9.1

HH 45839

15

DocId: 32289177

Page 1

---

## Page 2

BU 92-337

INFORMANTS (CONT' D)

Identity of Source

BU T-3

BU 82-C*

BU T-4

AL 3005-C

BU T-5

BU 297-PC

BU T-6

Lt. ROBERT CRYAN

New York State Police

BU T-7

HOWARD MC HENRY

Say Intelligence Unit,

Internal Revenue Service

BU I-8

MAURICE D. GAVIN, BCI,

New York State Police

BU T-9

PH 591-C*

BU T-10

JOSEPH VALACHI

(Bufile 92-4282)

BU T-11

NK 2319-C.

BU T-12

FRED CORNETTA, Agent,

U. S. Bureau of Customs

Buffalo, N.Y.

IRS

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

1/22/98 gm

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART •

TOTAL DENIAL

custams

REVIEWED BY #OWJFK TASK FORCE •

ON 3/21/97 dut /yB

D7 RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

-C_

COVER PAGE

HH 45839

DocId:32289177 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BU 92-337

Thursday and distributing them at Rochester. BU T-6 stated

the mob allegedly made bookmakers in Rochester buy the tickets

and the bookmakers were afraid to resell them or could not

resell them, and so either destroyed the tickets or just gave

them away.

HERB COWLES, a

coffee vendor for the New York

Airbrake Company, is a

distributor of lottery tickets in

Watertown, New York, and is assisted by IDA BEARDSLEY, an

elderly white woman in Watertown, New York.

BU I-o stated that on January 31, 1902, ANGELO THOMAS

of Utica, New York, was in telephonic contact with Highlano

Enterprises, 1782 Highland Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,

and was given the winning numbers for the treasury balance

lotteries for the week.

BU T-6 stated that THOMAS the

telephoned Rochester, Syracuse, Buffalo and Niagara Falls

gave out these numbers or verified the numbers.

BU T-6

stated that ANTHONY PARISI was handling the distribution of the

treasury balance tickets for ANGELO THOMAS while THOMAS was in

Florida. PARISI at that time was making deliveries to AL

DECKER,

WILLIAM SPAULDING, JOSEPH FUSCO, SAM SAPIENZA and FRED

CANPISANO.

BU T-6 further stated that he had received informa-

tion that JOSEPH FALCONE and ANTHONY FALANGE,

both of Utica,

New York, may be involved in this lottery, and it was possiole

that they may be involved in the insurance setup in the lottery

ring. In addition, BU I-6 stated that FRED RANDACCIO, VINCENT

SCRO, PASQUALE NATARELLI and possibly STEVE MAGADDINO met

with ANGELO THOMAS at the Eberhardt Motel in Liverpool, New

York, on January 21, 1963.

BU T-6 reported that NATARELLI's

car was observed at the motel during this meeting.

On April 17. 1963. BU T-T advised that since the

JFK Law 11(a)

WEDALOWSKI, also known as

, is handling the

- 9 -

IN 45839 DocId:32289177 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BU 92-337

According to records of the Royal Canadian Mounted

Police at Toronto,

Untarlo, canada, the man known as DANNY

is in all probability DANIEL GASBARRINI of Hamilton, Ontario.

Canada.

GASBARRINI served a seven year penitentiary sentence

in Canada and is suspected of being engaged in narcotics

smuggling by the Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Police Department.

- 19

HH 45839 DocId: 32289177 Page 4

---

