# docid-32311416

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10314-10019

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-1534-759

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MX

TO: HQ'

TITLE:

DATE: 11/18/1964

'PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES SMALL, CHARLES N. SMOLIKOFF, BERTHE MAY

NEHAM SMOLIKOFF

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311416

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-211

-D-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

•FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MEXICO, D.

DENTIAR

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BUREAU

DATE

11/18/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/3/63-10/27/64

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

NATHAN

CHARLES N.

SMOLTKOFF,

aka

BERTHE MAY NEHAM SMOLIKOTE,

akSHARACTER. OF CASE

SECURITY MATTER - C

TYPED BY

jhk

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

RS

- Krin

SYNOPS IS :

SLD MAC 1/23/98/57K

subjects, who in Mexico are

as CHARLES and

BERtHE SMALL, continue to reside at Calle Maziscal #98, Jan

Angel Inn, Mexico, D. F. CHARLES SMALL continues to operate

a gift and curio shop and BERNHE SMALI is occupied as a house..

wife.

Both subjects continue to be prominent members of ACGM.

of which CHARLES SVALL reportedly wants to become leader.

Jubjects gave cocktail party for "National Guardian" tour

members in 1/64.

CHARLES SMALL reported as furnishing morey

tO CEDRIC and MARY BELFRAGE and to LINI DeVRIES to establish

their boarding houses, to BRYNA FRENSKY to open art galleries;

and to wAY BRoOks to open art gallery. subjects gave party

for EDWARD BARSKY during visit to Mexico.

CHARLES SMALL

approved procurement of subscriptions for "National Guardian"

during 9/64 visit to Mexico of JAMES ARONSON, Iditor of

"National Guardian." de also furnishes comunist literature

to friends who visit his store.

CHARUES SMALL reported as

continuing to contribute to PCM projects. Subjects traveled

Art ENMOUACION CONTATAND

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

WEX CHANGET

jee Cover

Page "5"

Bufiles

100-12632

100-421747

MC files 100-1535

100-1534

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

2/26 5683unde

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X:

(NCE

IMAG

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

fau- 153%

SEARCHED

• INVEXED

SEALED COLON

DocId: 32311416 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mobey

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 100-1535

MC 100-1534

The following information was received from former

NEx-18 and Mix-19, but is being included in the Administrative

section of this report rather than the dissemination section

since it shows close association with the subjects to an

extent which would assist in identifying the informants.

Informants advised on 5/12/64, that on 5/5/64

MEX-18 had accompanied GERTRUDE SOLTKER

(Buttle 100-271396),

who was visiting in Mexico, on a shopping trip, at which time

they went to CHARLES SMALL's store.

When they visited the

store, DAVID DRUCKER was present having a heated argument with

SMALL and complaining loudly about the impositions he had

suffered. SMAll alternately agreed and disagreed with him.

According to source,

, the person being discussed noisily as

the source of DRUCKER'S troubles was MARGARET LARKIN.

After

DRUCKER's departure, MEX-13 introduced SOLTKER tO SMALL, and

it appeared that each had heard of the other. SOLTKER and

SMAlL discussed the family of MORTON SOBILL, convicted stouc

spy, and SMALl stated that SYDNEY SOBELL, apparently one of

the sOßElL daughters, would be in Mexico

for the sumner.

On 5/12/64, informants

advised that during the time

MEX-18 was

in CHARLES SMALL'S store on 5/6/64, JEANETTE PEPPER

entered and told SMALL that

"someone" was in town whom SMALL

should "do something about." SMall said that he had already

done it and was seeing that person at his hotel and arranging

a dinner.

SMALl subsequently identified "that person" to

MEX-18 as LINUS PAULING (Bufile 100-353404). During the course

of the conversation between PEPPER and SMALL, however, PEPPER

said "that person" was not the one she had in mind but she

friend of "ERZIE."

Informant subsequently

identified "ERZIE" as the widow of JOHN SEKELEY, a writer

wrote the book, "Temptation," under the penname "JOHN

PEN" and lived in Cuernavaca until approximately seven years

ago when he left Mexico for East Germany. According to the

source, SEKELEY was reported to have died or to have been

killed in East Germany approximately five years ago.

On 6/12/64, MEX-13 advised that on 6/12/54,

informant

had visited the art gallery being opened by MAY BROOKs, at

which time DAVID DUCKER, FREDERICK VANDERBILT FIELD (Bufile

100-2278), MAY BROOKE, and RUTH CONDE (Bufile 100-434224),

well as informant,

were present. CHARLES SMALL dropped in

_W.

COVER PAGE

DoeId: 32311416 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Horey

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 100-1535

MC 100-1534

and

made a very facetious

remark that it looked like a

foreign branch meeting with the foreign agents and underground

agents present.

According to informant, SMALL meant DRUCKUR.

and FIELD were foreign agents and BROOKS, CONDE and informant

were underground agents.

DRUCKER, however, did not consider

the remark humorous and

left immediately.

SOURCES:

Identify of Source

File Location

I-l is NEX-25 and MEX-55 ' 134-13A

T-2 is MEX-42 and MEX-195

134-31A

T-3 is MEX-234 and MEX-235 134-771A

T-4 is former MEX-18 and

MEX-19

134-10A

T-5 is

VEX-46

I-S iS MEX 43 and MEX 61)

T-7 is CIA, Mexico

CLASSIFICATION:

134-35A

100-1535-727

This report has been classified CONFIDENTIAL in

order to protect the identities of sources of continuing

value, the disclosure of whose identities could be inimical

to the national defense interests.

LEADS:

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

At Mexico, D. F., Mexico

Through established sources and sources available

to CIA, Mexico, will follow the activities of captioned

subjects.

CONAIDENTIAI

-X-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32311416 Page 4

---

