# docid-32404224

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

104-10331-10094

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: DIRECTOR,

CSI

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

MEMO: THE AGENY'S JEK ASSASSINATION RECORDS

09/26/1995

3

SUBJECTS

JFK ASSASSINATION

AGENCY RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

:CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/23/03

COMMENTS: JEK-M-16 : F4 : 2000.02.08.14:33:12:217035

TRI

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10094

1H 53217

DocId: 32404224

Page

---

## Page 2

-CONFIDENTIAL

•CIA SPECIAT

COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

CSI -0369/95

26 September 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Executive Director

Director, Center for Study of Intelligence

The Agency's JFK Assassination Records

1. The basic collection of the Agency's JFK assassination

records (approximately 320,000 pages) consists of Lee Harvey

Oswald's 201 file and other documents which were sequestered by

the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

at the conclu-

sion of its investigation.

Certain additional records, including

400 excerpts

from the minutes of the DCI morning meeting and some

Do working files, have been added to the collection since the

passage of the JFK Assassination Records Act in 1992.

To date, we

have reviewed and released to the National Archives, either in

full or redacted form, approximately 200,000 pages.

records are in various stages of review (third agency and

The remaining

Congressional material) or are pending discussions (microfilm

material) with the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) • (C)

2. Currently, we

are conducting a second review of Oswald

201 documents in coordination with the ARRB.

These are the docu-

ments that were released earlier in sanitized form.

We expect

this effort to result in a significant increase in the material

being released in full. The ARRB has access to the full text of

all sanitized and denied documents.

The Board has been briefed by

Agency officials on the need to protect certain categories of

information.

To date the ARRB has accepted the need to protect

the identity of sources and agents, and liaison relationships.

However, the issues of identifying

ClA overseas locations and

releasing the names of retired staff employees are still under

discussion. (C)

3. Two major items still pending discussion with the

ARRB are some 35,000 pages within the microfily part of the

not a vated

collection which are not related to the JFK assassination

story and over 10,000 pages of staff employees' personnel

files. (C)

Description of The Collection

4.

The Oswald file has served as a repository for JFK

assassination related material over the years. Only 39

documents were in the file at the time of the assassination.

CL BY:

0185904

DECL:

OADR

- CONFIDENTIAL*

HH 53217 DocId:32404224 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFFDENTIAE

SUBJECT: The Agency's JFK Assassination Records

The bulk of the approximately 26,000 pages consists of

documents collected immediately after the assassination and

during the Warren Commission investigation.

Included are a

large number of third Agency documents, particularly from the

Other major additions to the 201

file include relevant

Mexico City Station files and materials generated by various

FOIA requests and investigations such as that of New Orleans

District Attorney, James Garrison.

(C)

5. The HSCA sequestered records consist of

approximately 130,000 hardcopy pages and 72 reels (or some

163,000 pages) of microfilm.

The hardcopy material

includes

the

copies of most of the CIA documents in the Oswald 201 and

copies of records and files provided in response to HSCA

requests.

The latter includes 201, personnel, and security

files on

individuals who are mentioned in documents relevant

to the JFK story or who figure in one of the numerous

conspiracy theories.

The collection also includes about

30,000 pages of documents, memos, and notes (many

handwritten) created by the staff of the HSCA during the

investigation.

(C)

6.

The 72 reels appear to contain all files

that the HSCA

staff requested or to which they were given access.

the material consists of files on individuals and organizations

including 26

reers of 201 files, the equivalent of five reels of

staff personnel files, and

organizations.

The rest of the records range from extensive

files on operations in Mexico City to the debriefing of Soviet

and Cuban defectors.

Approximately half of the microfilm is

duplicative of the hardcopy material in the basic collection,

including a complete set (12 reels) of the Oswald 201 file.

All

but a small percentage of the materials are CIA-originated

cables, dispatches, memoranda, reports, and correspondence.

(C)

7.

Under the JFK Records Act, an agency may appeal to

the president if it disagrees with

the Board's decision to

release what the agency regards as sensitive information.

The President then has 30 days in which to inform the. Board

as to whether he is granting the appeal or not.

Thus far, we

have not found it necessary to appeal any of the Board's

determinations. (C)

Than

Brian Latell

-CONFIDENTIAL

NW 53217 DooId:32404224 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: The Agency's JFK Assassination Records

DCI /CSI/BLatell:bas/30335 (26 Sept 95)

Distribution:

Original

- Addressee

1

- Executive Registry

1 - D/CSI File

1

- D/CSI Chrono

1

-C/HRG

1 - B. Harrelson, HRG

1 - HRG File

3

-CONFIDENTIAL

33217

DocId: 32404224

Page 4

---

