# docid-32308721

## Page 1

"Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10296-10049

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-141

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

06/06/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

WI, EMP, ASSOC, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

w9.1

DocId: 32308721

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Keahedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

REASE

DATE

6t7488

Clussifiod hy

Exeurot trou

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGA

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

COMFIDEN AS

AS INFORMATEO

HEREIN IS UN

EXCEPT WH

E SHOWN

CURCENE

6-5-59

7-42

PM KNG

TELL

ANJ

ADVI

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, ATLANTA

LATE AGENCI

TING S

1/23

MiT. Tolson

Mr; Belmont

Maguirel:

MRS Mohr

ra larsons

Mr. Rosenk

"Mr. Tamm,

My. Frottes

W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr

Holloman.

Mist Gandy.

FROM SAC, MIAMI 2 P

Class

-Declassily on:

311585

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, INTERNAL SECURITY, CUBA.

FOURTH AND BUAIRTEL JUNE FIFTH

MM SIX THREE NINE S ADVISED THAT ON

JUNE FOURT HE HAD FLOWN LUES PELOLA FORMER CUBAN POLITICIAN AND

ONE

OF

LEADERS OF GROUP KNOWN ASXCRUSADE OF REVOLUTIONARIES AGAINST

COMMUNISM PAKEN CRAC CLO

AREN, RAYMOLINA, AMERICAN EMPLOYED

BY

SPITZER MOTOR COMPANY,.. MIAMI, TO ATLANTA WHERE PUJOL AND MOLINA

HAD CONFERENCE WITH BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE HEARN, GEORGIA

VATIONAL GUARD, RUSSELL BUILDING

* MOLINA DESCRIBED AS OLD FRIEND

SON OF GENERAL.

INFORMANT DID NOT PARTICIPATE IN CONFERENCE BUTU

IN ADJOINING ROOM. AFTER CONFERENCE, PUJOL ADVISED INFORMANT

MOLINA HAD REQUESTED HELP OF HEARN IN OBTAINING ARMS AND

AMMUNITION, BUT GENERAL REFUSED.

PUJOL MADE STATEMENT DURING

TRIB THAT THEY WOULD BE IN CUBA BEFORE END OF JUNE. ATLANTA, ARTER

630

IMPRESSING HIM WITH EXTREME CONFIDENTIAL NATURE OF INQUIRY,

AND

DEPENDING UPON HIS ATTITUDE, INTERVIEW HEARN FOR ALL INFORMATION

INQ

POSSESSION CONCERNING THIS MATTERE IT HEARN COOPERATIVES

141

RE IDENTITY, BACKGROUND AND ACTIVITIES

AND RAY MOLINA BITE HE POSSESSES VALUABLE INFORMATION AB 1959 ENT LAL:

WINESS RE CONSPIRACY, OBTAIN SIGNED STATEMENT. EOR INFOREON

ST ROBERT WILLIAMS AND MM SIX THREE NINE S.

SSOCIATED

WITH SUBJECTS ONLY TO ASSIST FBI.

THEY DO RENDE

IRVICES TO

1e0(u)

END PAGE ONE

BEING DISSENMISATED

CON

Mr a

TEN SCA

- 3/30 88 8.

TO STAYE

*DER

DocId: 32308721

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Reteased unmer the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleckion Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

CONE!

MAL

PERSONS INVOLVED, AS.

POTIGARE PILOTS, IN LINE WITH THEIR OCCUPATEONSA

THEY HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED NOT TO TAKE PART. IN ANY EXPEDITION

• OR

ILLEGAL ACTIVITY AS SUCH. IT IS BELIEVED THEY ARE IN POSITIONITO

FURNISH PERTINENT, DEVELOPMENTS IN THIS MATTER ON FIRST HAND BASIS. FOL

PSI LOPEZ SOSA, BECAUSE OF HIS ENMITY WITH RICHARD

JAFFE, ONE O

MEMBERS OF GROUP, IS NOT BELIEVED TO BE IN POSITION TO FURNISH

FIRST HAND INFORMATION, HOWEVER, HE STILL CAN BE USEFUL IN

VIEW OF FRIENDSHIP WITH OTHER INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPANTS. INTERVIEN

OF PRINCIPAL SUBJECTS AT THIS TIME NOT RECOMMENDED AS BEING PREMATURE

AND AS PLANS OF GROUP APPEAR TO BE IN FORMQULATIVE STAGE AND SUBJECT

TO CHANGE TECHNSOR SHEYEWLCOMMENDED, AT THIS TIME INASMUCH AS INFORMANT

COVERAGE BELIEVED ADEQUATE. PEDROADIAZ, EX"MAYOR OF ISLE OF PINES,

IS UNDERSIOOD TO BE THERE AT THIS TIME. WILLIAMOHNSON, MENTIONED IN

RETEL, IS HEAD OF WIL DASH JON AUTO SALES, AND COAST RECOVERY

SERVICE, AN AUTO AND BOAT REPOSSESSION SERVICE, MIAMIL IS OF

QUESTIONABLE ETHICS AND REPUTATION. PSI LOPEZ SOSA IS EMPLOYED BY

JOHNSON AND LIVES WITH HIM. BUREAU WILL'BE KEPT ADOUSED OF PERTINENT

DEVELOPMENTS• ATLANTA SUTEL RESULTS INTERVIEW WITH HEARN AND

INFORMATION RS IDENTITY AND ACTIVITIES DE PEACOGKA GUSTOMS ANDE

INS, MIAMI NOTIFIED.

END AND ACK PLS

WA XXXXERN 8-52PM OK FBI WA CRA

AT

OK FBI AT GBH

TU DISC

T

JiAn

CON

TIAT

ARMONT

DocId:32308721 Page 3

---

