# docid-32163660

## Page 1

Released

under the John

. F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SILUILUI

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10151-10239

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-8282X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/06/1990

3

JFK, SUSPECT, MARCELLO, CARLOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/29/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DödId: 32163660

Page 1

38

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John

F.

Hote) .-

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 791 US€ 2107

#D-36 (Rev. 8-29-85)

FBI

SSP

LASS

3C D

' 1

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

TRANSMIT VIA:

PRECEDENCE:

Teletype

Immediate

Facsimile

X

Priority

AIRTEL

Routi

• MAL

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EFTO

UNCLAS

Date

2/6/90

321

TO

SUB

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, DALLAS (175A-109) (C)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F.

KENNEDY;

PPSAKA

00: DALLAS

seat: inf

on millington

into be witt

aftri. referral

319/84

During

the past eleven months, Dallas has conducted

an extensive review of the original assassination

investigation (DL 89-43) for information of additional lead

value.

In addition, extensive outside reading of articles,

publications, books, and government reports were reviewed

prior to the

interview of CARLOS MARCELLO On 9/6/89.

in any Bureau report has provided any reasonable indication of

MARCELLO'S involvement in the captioned assassination, or that

he assisted OSWALD in the assassination. There have been

numerous outside publications theorizing a connection between

MARCELLO and the assassination, but none of these theories has

been able to provide substantive proof of MARCELLO'S

involvement.

MARCELLO was interviewed by Buagents on 9/6/89

at the FEDERAL MEDICAL CENTER (FMC), Rochester, Minnesota,

regarding his statements on 2/27/89 that he was "going to get.

KENNEDY when he came to Dallas".

As expected, MARCELLO denied

making these statements, as well as denying any involvement in

the assassination of President KENNEDY.

MARCELLO denied

62-109060-8282744

@Bureau

(2-Legat, London)

2-Los Angeles

2-Minneapolis

AIT, INFORMATION CESTATED

2-New Orleans

RERSIN IS UNCLASSINIED ESCE?"

2-Dallas

THERE SHOW METEr:ER

(1-89-43)

(1-175A-109)

TEB/1dj

(14)

Declassity on. OADR/5FK

Approved:

DocId: 32163660

Page 2'

Transm

Per

(Number)

(Time)

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 175A-109

*ANESENIAL

knowing OSWALD Or OSWALD'S uncle, DUTCH MURRET. MARCELLO also

denied knowing EDWARD BECKER, or making a statement to BECKER

in

1962 about having President KENNEDY killed.

It was the opinion of the agents conducting the

interview of MARCELLO that he was clear and lucid at the time

of the interview, although he would, at times, ramble in a

disoriented manner, apparently attempting to get the interview

off track.

Employees at the FMC confirmed MARCELLO would at

times feign being disoriented for his own personal

convenience, but that at other times, he would legitimately be

disoriented. Based on this information, it would appear that

MARCELLO

was legitimately disoriented on 2/27/89, thus making

the veracity of his statements suspect.

Coincidental to the statements by MARCELLO on

2/27/89, the New Orleans Division advised by teletype dated

3/15/89 that the former Chief of Police and current City

Councilman of New Orleans, JOSEPH GIARRUSO, had received

phone call from

an insane elec tomate

accent.

The caller claimed to have worked part time for an

attorney in New Orleans for a period of two days some time

between 1966 and 1968.

This caller refused to identify

herself, but did provide a telephone number in England.

caller advised GIARRUSO that she remembered typing a letter

for the lawyer and that in the letter money was sent to the

mother of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and that a statement was made in

the letter concerning the KENNEDY assassination.

By airtel dated 9/20/89 Legat, London, advised that

DEBORAH MILLINGTON had been interviewed at Brighton, England,

on 8/31/89, by representatives of NEW SCOTLAND YARD.

MILLINGTON admitted to being the individual who had called

GIARRUSO in March of 1989.

MILLINGTON provided a description

of the attorney for whom she had worked, as well as the

general location of his office.

MILLINGTON claims to have

been interviewed as a potential witness in the trial of CLAY

The New Orleans Division, by airtel dated 10/3/89,

advised they had no information regarding MILLINGTON'S status

as a witness

in the CLAY SHAW trial, nor did the information

she had provided concerning the location of the attorney's

office coincide with the details provided in her intervie

2

CONCIDENTAL

DooId: 32163660

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Tohn F.

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy AssassinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

DL 175A-109

CONHOLNHAL

It should be noted that the above allegations by (C)

MILLINGTON again place the Bureau in the dilemma of being

presented facts 25 years after the event that can neither be

confirmed nor discounted. Dallas is of the opinion that no

additional investigation in this matter is warranted, in view

of the fact that this subsequent investigation was initiated

based on statements made by MARCELLO while in a semi-coherent

state and that these statements were subsequently denied by

MARCELLO when interviewed.

In addition, volume upon volume of

investigation has previously been conducted by the Bureau, as

well as various Congressional sub-committees, and none of

these investigations has ever established a positive

connection between MARCELLO and the assassination.

further pursuit of this investigation will merely give

appearance of self-doubt regarding the original and subsequent

investigations.

Accordingly, UACB, Dallas is Closing DL 89-4.

(the original KENNEDY assassination), as well as the current

investigation (DL 175A-109) relating to captioned matter.

• 3*

CONFIDENTIAS

DooId: 32163660

Page

---

