# docid-32319266

## Page 1

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1991

DATE: 11-14-2017

"K Assassination Syste

Identification Form

Agency Information

USC 2107 Hote).

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10400

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-84

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

TITLE :

DATE: 11/24/1993

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32319266

59

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

32/

November 24, 1993

BY COURIER

Dep. Dir.

ADD Adm.

ADD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.....

CJIS

Info. Mgmt.

Insp.

Intell.

Lab.

Legal Coun..

Tech. Servs.

Training

Off. of EEOA_

Off. Liaison

& Int. Affs.

Off. of Public

& Cong. Affs.

TQM Office

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

DocId: 32319266

Honorable John Conyers

Chairman

Government Operations Committee

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Chairman:

I am writing to make you aware of the efforts of the

FBI to

release documents pursuant to the John F. Kennedy (JFK)

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (the Act). During

the November 17, 1993, hearing of the House Government Operations

Committee (HGOC), concerns were raised regarding the FBI's

response to the Act, and I want to ensure that you and other

members of the Committee are fully informed regarding the scope

and status of that response.

you have this information in view of claims that the FBI is

"stonewalling" with respect to a document release that appeared

in a November 18, 1993, article in "The Washington Post."

The FBI has in excess of 1,000,000 pages of documents

subject to release to the National Archives and Records

Administration (NARA). These documents, a very large number of

which are duplicates,

appear in various

files, to include those

relating to the JFK Assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald, Jack Ruby,

the Warren Commission, and the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA).

In addition to processing these

"originals" and "duplicates," the FBI is, of course, preparing

identification aids for each document to be released.

The FBI'S JFK Task Force

began to process Assassination

documents in April, 1992.

Processing was done under the Freedom

of Information/Privacy Acts prior to the passage of the Act.

GQA=HO-1028665084

1

1

- Mr. Clarke

- Mr. R. Bucknam

- Mr. H. Shapiro

- Mr. J. Bucknam

- Mr. St. Dennis

1

- Miss Gawley

(14)

1

- MS.

Siford/Mrs. Leeper

Mr.

collingwood

IRD

Front Office

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

1

Mr.

o'connor

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Mr. Hartingh

DATE 2/15/93BY566K500hde

1

- Mr.

Harmon

Mail Room

Page 2

APPROVED

Director

Dsp. Dir.

ADD-Asin.

ADD-Inv..

Adm. Sarvs..

inspection

Crim. I.

Intall.

Crim. Jus. Into.

Laboratory

sens..

dega! Coun.

Tech. Sarvs.

Off. of Liaisoi

& Int. Alls.

CM. of Public

& Cong. Aifs. =

Ident

Into. Mgmt,

Training.

Hand Deliverd CH.

---

