# docid-32326257

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90044-10106

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 122-2950-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/13/1961

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

FRANK MATULA

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32326257

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the«JohntF. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

=D-36* Rev.

11-115-73-56

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date: 10/13/67

(Type in plain text or code)

ta

AIR MAIL

39

"Prioriey or Method of MailinG W

TO:

(17207986)

FROM:

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, LOS ANGELES (122-212)

CHANGED

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

JAMES GOTTLIEB

LMRA - IM.

6

Re Bureau

artel to Los Angeles dated 1011/61

entitled "JAMES RIDDLE

to Los Angeles dated 10/11/61

HOFFA; JOHN GOTTLIEB, LMRA-IM!'

The title of this airtel 1s being marked changed

to reflect JAMES GOTTLIEB as subject instead of JOHN GOTTLIEB.

Due to the limited amount of time available to

interview LA 4350-0 at this time, informant cannot be

thoroughly interviewed regarding

this matter at this time.

As soon as possible, informant will be interviewed in detai

regarding this matter, at which time Bureau instruction

as set forth in referenced airtel will be carried out.

on 10/7/61, LA 4350-0 telephonically

that he had been contacted by, a BETITAVIOR,

Ly no operate norman

an employment agency in conjunction wive a NORMAN R. HENKIN,

where the telephone number is DUnkirk 5-3131.

TAYLOR requested

that informant meet her as she wanted to ask him about,

Call 1i6161

Chicago (Info) (AM)

- Las Vegas. (Info) (AM) Illa

4 - Los Angeles

REG A3

(1

12

- 122-212)

MCI - 10

122=2

D-2

- 62-new) (JAMES R. HOFFA; Home Service Corp.,

C c= wick

COL.

JOHN. & GOTTLIEB,

Miscellaneous

Info Concerning. (Accounting and Fraud Section)

(1- 137-2561)

AAH: bje

(9)

ĐCT 23 1961

Approved: M7

58 OCT 261Spegial Agent in Charge

15

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

DocId: 32326257 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 122-212

According to de TERRA, Col. GOTTLIEB was away

during the entire month of August and appeared to be

traveling on business.

That was the period during which

she wrote the large number of checks.

According to de TERRA, Col, GOTTLIEB does not

drink, smoke or chase women and

wife.

Is very devoted to his

She noted that he is a devouted Jew and that

he attends Temple every Friday night and Saturday morning.

V de TERRA said that she believes Col. GOTTLIEB

Abbott Plastic Machine Corporation which is

headquartered In Chicago and which

has a branch on West

Adams Boulevard in Los Angeles. She recalled that recently

GOTTLIEB has purchased a large arount of stock in the

greater Arizona sayings Bank

Phoenix, Arizona.

e TERRA related that during the carly part oi

June, 1961, she was employed by a firm of attorneys, Elle

and Winton. She stated while employed by that firm, an

accountant, who is known by the name of PRINTZ (PH), came lal

into that office and appeared flush and 'excited.. PRINTZ

announced that he had just been given a million dollars

in cash by a client and was instructed to buy up motels

around the country in order to help HOFFA organize motel

employees.

2022 др

PRINTZ's announcement and stated it appeared to her that

he was so excited over the deal that he just had to blurt

1t out.

She could furnish no additional information regarding

these remarks by PRINTZ.

- =-141

In view of the above information, Los Angeles 1s

opening a 62 file on Colonel JOHN O. GOTTLIEB In which an

allegations made by LA 4350-0 regarding GOTTLIEB. Informant

will be thoroughly interviewed regarding Col. GOTTLIEB, at

which time

a letterhead memo will be forwarded to the Bureau

including the information furnished by informant as well as

the information furnished by Mrs. de TERRA.

= 7=

DocId: 32326257 Page 3

---

