# docid-32290834

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10110

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-315

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

04/09/1962

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS:

CIP, FORT WORTH PDT, CORRUPTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32290834

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 94-55A

WILLIAMS does not appear to have any additional

information which has not been previously reported to the

FBI by these officers and other sources.

Information contained in the accompanying letterhead

memo has been furnished on an almost daily basis orally by

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS to IRS Agents who are conducting an extensive

investigation in Fort Worth, Texas. This memo will serve as

an up-to-date record of information previously supplied to

IRS on a local level.

The Bureau may desire to disseminate

the letterhead memo to the IRS headquarters at Washington,

D. Co

Extra copies are being provided the Bureau in the

event copies of this memo are being disseminated.

Copies of this memo are being furnished San

Antonio for dissemination to the Attorney General of the

State of Texas, and to Col. HOMER GARRISON, DPS at Austin,

Texas, after approval is given by the Bureau for such

dissemination.

Two copies of this letterhead memo will be

furnished to the IRS at Dallas, Texas, after approval is

given by the Bureau.

For the information of the Bureau, San Antonio

Office advised on 4/4/62 that Col. HOMER GARRISON, Director,

Texas DPS, Austin, Texas, has informed that no active

investigation has

been conducted to date although the

situation at the Ft. Worth PD has been followed by the DPS.

He stated that he would have a representative contact the

Dallas Office in the near future.

Subsequently, on 4/4/62, Capt. ROBERT A. CROWDER

did contact the Dallas

Office as outlined in referenced

Dallas letter to Bureau.

For the further information of the Bureau, the

sources contained in the letterhead meno are listed below

as to each paragraph.

Paragraph Number

1 - 5

6

Source

LEONARD DORSETT, Patrolman

Fort Worth PD

PCIS L

and

Dallas Division

OTHER 4

2

NW 45760 DocId: 32290834

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• '.

DL 94-55A

Paragraph Number

7 - 9

10

11

12

13

OTHER 4

14

15

16

17 - 19

20

21

22

23

Source

BERT EDMONDSON, Fort Worth PD

DL-84-C

LEONARD DORSETT

Former PCI L

Dallas Division

LEONARD DORSETT, and

Investigation of JAMES

ERSKINE MOSES

JACKIE SHEFFIELD, Victim in

WSTA Matter; and Officers

FRENCH and PODOLSKY, Ft. Worth

PD; and investigation.

PCI

Dallas Division

EDDIE LYNN, Sheriff's Office,

Tarrant County; Former Fort

Worth PD Officer JIMMY DEAN;

and LEONARD DORSETT and*

from records furnished by

DORSETT.

HORACE YEAGER, employee,

Fort Worth PD

PCI C

Dallas

Division; LEONARD DORSETT

PCI

Dallas Division

LEONARD DORSETT

Rev. J. C. WILLIAMS,

2344 Brothers, Fort Worth, Texas

NW 45760

DocId: 32290834

Page 3

---

## Page 4

who are checked

into the fort Worth City Jail and who are

searched by these jailors.

One incident concerning this is

alleged to be the arrest of JOHN

HENRY IRVON, 923 Judd

Street, Fort Worth, Texas, on December 23, 1961 for driving

while intoxicated.

Officer L. C. KENNEDY, Fort Worth Police

Department, is the officer, according to source, who made the

arrest.

After considerable investigation by Federal agencies

in the Fall of 1961 concerning gambling matters, it is

reported by one source that Lieutenant OLIVER BALL of the

Fort Worth Police Department Vice Squad called all of the

ramblers in Fort Worth who had been interviewed by Federa

authorities and had these men photographed and fingerprinted

since few had ever been fingerprinted or photographed before:

It is alleged that none of these people were arrested and

that Lieutenant BALL told the gamblers to not

st, an address

in Fort Worth, Texas, due to the bad publicity

It gives the

City g Fort Worth and also because Fort Horth Clty Manager

Lo Po

COOKINGHAM out the pressure on the Fort Worth Police

Depay

thent when newspapers published the Fort Worth and

Dallas;

Texas gamblers'

names and Fort Worth showed a larger

number of gamblers than Dallas.

One

source

advised that she

had on different occastons

given $10.00 to $20

to Fort Worth Police Department Vice

Squad officers E.

M.

CLUCK, and D

CHILLAN

for arlowing

her to

*as

₴ pro.

tute.

source stated that Chief of Police CATO

HIGHTOWER's

brother,

HIGHTOWER, fornerly operated a burtding

plant

known as

bit orsity Supply and Equipment Company, in Port Worth TEX

until it wext into bankruptcy. a short time ago.

This source

stated that 1957 and 1958 Fort Worth Police Departmeft Annuals

were printed by this company and were purchased by the officers

of the Police Department for $6,00 each.

It was estimated

that of the annuals purchased, that Chief of Police SAlO

Fort Worth Police Department, had received a

Tom

Information developed from one source that

approximatelyple to 2 years ago Fort Horth coin machine

operator BOB RIgAS had paid amounts of from $500 to $1,000

in cash and this money was paid by BURNS to Lieutenant

DORGE T

HAWKINS.

of the Fort Worth,

' Texas Police Department

Detectre Barety and to Sergeant ROBERT I

who was

formerly employed as a Vice Squal Sergeant

Police Department. This

spurce stated that this money had

4

NW 45760 DocId: 32290834

Page

4

---

## Page 5

who are checked into the Fort Worth City Jail and who are

searched by these jailors.

One incident concerning this is

alleged to be the arrest of JOHN

Officer L. C. KENNEDY, Fort Worth Police

Department, is the officer, according to source, who made the

arrest.

After considerable investigation by Federal agencies

in the Fall of 1961 concerning gambling matters, it is

reported by one source that Lieutenant OLIVER BALL of the

Fort Worth Police Department Vice Squad called all of the

gamblers in Fort Worth who had been interviewed by Federal

authorities and had these men photographed and fingerprinted

since few had ever been fingerprinted or photographed before.

It is alleged that none of these people were arrested and

that Lieutenant BALL told the gamblers to not list an address

in Fort Worth, Texas, due to the bad publicity it gives the

City of Fort Worth and also because Fort

Worth City Manager

L. P. COOKINGHAM put the pressure on the Fort Worth Police

Department when newspapers published the Fort Worth and

Dallas, Texas gamblers' names and Fort Worth showed a larger.

number of gamblers than Dallas.

One source advised that she had on different occastons

given $10.00 to $20.00 to Fort Worth Police Department Vice

Squad officers E. M. BILGER, H. T. CLUCK, and D. W. McMILLAN

for allowing her to work as a prostitute.

One source stated that Chief of Police CATO HIGHTOWER'S

brother,

C. L. HIGHTOWeR, formerly operated a building plant

known as University Supply and Equipment Company, in Fort Worth

until it went into bankruptcy. a short time ago.

This source

stated that 195% and 1958 Fort Worth Police Departmeft Annuals

were printed by this company and were purchased by the officers

of the Police Department for $6,00 each.

It was estimated

that of the annuals purchased, that Chief of Police CArO S.

HIGHTOWER, Fort Worth Police Department, had received a cut

from this.

Information developed from one source that

approximately l2 to 2 years ago Fort Worth coin machine

operator BOB BURNS had paid amounts of from $500 to $1,000

in cash and this money was paid by BURNS to Lieutenant

GEORGE T. HAWKINS of the Fort Worth, Texas

Police Department

Detective Bureau and to Sergeant ROBERT L. WOOTEN, who was

formerly employed as a Vice Squad Sergeant on the Fort Worth

Police Department. This spurce stated that this money had

4

NW 45760 DocId: 32290834

Page 5

---

