# docid-32293160

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10436

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-81285-90

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

• TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/08/1962

3

REW, EX-WIFE, RE-MARRIED, CORRESPOND, ASSOC,

RUSSIA, INTV, CIA, PHOTO, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32293160

Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

Rereasen

ufider

the

DATE: 11-14-2017

AssasSination Records Colleotión Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

SE CON SECRET

ROSIFED

DIRECTOR, PAX (65-672351) (U)

ATE TORORA

OW CONTAINED

PERDIN IS UN

MISSIYIED EXCEPE

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

8/8/62

WISE

ПОТ/PA # 2 41369

MENISE

UNSUD: L

"SASHA"

SA

ESPIONAGE-R

(00: WASHINGTON FINLO)

Known ae

APPEAT H

CIVIT ACT,

50 712

54

DATE 12/1L

S-TV S CIA

Re tureau letter to Washington Pield, 7/12/62.

Ni se

Enclosed for

the

Buroau are tive copies of a'letterhead

memorandun concerning contact with ROBERT EDWARD

WEBSIbA,

Beaver St.s

rellenoples ta.)

ZINAIDA

SHISHICIN •

SA copy of the lettorhead memorandum

1s also

enclosed for Washington freld.bU

copy of this

letter has been furnished to Cleveland

as worsuerta ex-wife

presently resides

101 Chần

Cleveland

territory.

CLA HAS NO OBJECTION

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

RO THIS DOCUMENT.

85-96

X4)

enolosed memorandun has

been clasified "secret"

since

1€ concerns a highly senastive

destacation

involving CIA personnel abroad.

MRS

DADE

1969

Decires

RESTLE

ben sed that duren the period 7/15-22/02 he was

Wachlngton.D.C, being interviewed by CIA and that

have periodio contact with CLA representatives

Pittsburgh

stated that CIA personnel

Washing con

an sat en y wee peesed with

the results of these intervlemanand appreciated

his cooperation.

WEBSTER stated that he

mas aftorded an

IQ test and recelved

help" fron CIA while in Washingtop-

thát

MARCHA

re-narried

/27/02.

Rer husband 10/WILLIAHAO

ORIGINAL FILED IN

(name unknown) at Hubbara,

Che will

reside

Sede ser asa unilaren as se uschraten ar

,NiTea.

REC- ESOS.

0n10 ($/a)

(Encl. 5) (RM)

•ST RECORDED

3-ель (0-3/98 5024

12167 AUG 73 1962

2-Pittsburgh

SOE) (1DFO) (RI)

(1-105-2553)

51

AUG

B 6 1962

t3

DocId: 32293160

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144

USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

August 6, 1962

92

CLASSIFIED BY 5068 540

huds

DECLASSIFY ON: 251

ALL ATTEN

PAGE IS GUSE

UNLESS I

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

UNKNOWN SUBJECT;

KGĐ

• AGENT

HONOWN AS

* "SASHA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. GM B

on July 31, 1962, photographs

Alexandrovitch (s] 8-5-96

Shishkin and(hig wife, 2inaida

shishking were (S]

SADIKSR

displayed to Robert Edward Webater, 31T East

Beaver St., Beltenople,

Pa., who renounced hie

8-10-96

United States oitizenship and resided at Leningrad,

Russia,

keem 1959.3o Way, 1902.

Webster advised

that

the Chishking were unknown to hing that he had not metl S

them in russia;

and that he could furnish no

information

concerning them,

It 10 noted that in May, 1962,

Webster advised Speolal

Agents of the

Federal Bureau ot Investigavion, that

he was in contact with one Alexander shishkin at thels

American National Exhibition in Moscow In 1955.

on July 31, 1962 Webster atated that he had

been mistaken concerning the name of this

Individual and that he should have identified him

Hi chich hi hit endea va ten ten it coveten

According te Webster, Michael (5)

Shishkin

Shishkid

EXCES

1-15.7

Classiried

Declassity

om: OADR

Cha

DOR GANA

This document contains neither recommendations

nor dut

insuns of the

FBI. It is the propoly

of the Fir

and'is loanad to your agendy:

ind

its contents are not to be distributod outside

your agency.

FOI/PA # 26/369

APPRATA

CIVIT ACT

3. 0. 7.

SECRET

SuIV

CIA

ENCLOSURE

105=

DocId: 32293160 Page 3

---

