# docid-32320063

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

(44 USC 2107 Mote).

3/31/201

Agency Information.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10372-10395

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-372

Document Information

ORIGÍNATOR: FBI

FROM: SD

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/02/1997

6

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC S/S, EC, LETTER

v9.1

DocId: 32320063

Page

163

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

• (12/31/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

TO:

OPCA

ROUTINE

Attn:

Date:

07/02/1997

JFK TASK FORCE

RM 6362 YVONNE BREWER

From:

SAN DIEGO

FOIPA

Contact: BECKER LIZ (619-514-5919)

Approved By: WALKER CHARLES B

Drafted By: BECKER ELIZABETH H: enb

Case IN #: 62-40-1029205-312

Title: JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992

(THE ACT)

Synopsis: Results of San Diego search

Reference: 62-HQ-1029205 ec dated 6/19/1997

Enclosures: Bu ec dated 6/19/97; SD search slip dated 6/23/97.

SD ec to Pocatello dated 7/2/97; SD file 66-1761.

Details: A search of the San Diego general, automated and ELSUR

indices located a main file 66-1761 and two see references 92-62-

846p4 and 66-1712-3.

two "see" references are located in Pocatello.

Pocatello has

been requested to forward same to you, see enclosed ec to

Pocatello.

DocId: 32320063

Page

2

+2-416-1029205-372

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

indices Search Slip

FD-160 (Rev. 7-28-89)

To: Office Services Manager

to her deser

Buded 6/30/97

Requested by:

i wake

6-23-49

Виски

Squai

File No

Subject 00

exneR

Exact Spelling

All References

Main Security Case Files Only

Security References Only

General Indices:

• NEG DJ POS

5919

Social Security Abount #

Emmose

Judithr

mmook,

Judith

Birth Place

: leen, Campbell, Judy

T Sex

Hew York

§female

Main Criminal Case Files Only

& Restrict Locally or

Criminal References Only

Main Security (If no Main, list all Security References)

Main Criminal (it no Main, list all Criminal References)

X NEG I POS

Searched by

an =

Searched by

E contidential Indices:

Date

Searched by

I NEG D POS

ти

NEG O POS

124.97

Searched by

5

NS:

ta 1130147

I NEG I POS

C/24/97

624.07

Searched by

Date

Searched by

Date

POIMS:

O NEG ILPOS

MICRO:

I NEG O POS

-4/97

Searched by

GLOBAL:

• NEG O POS

Searched by

• REGIONAL:

Date

I NEG, O POS

Searched by

Searched by

Place an "X" by the Field Office(s) to Query for Regional Searches.

Mid-Atlantic

Central

Date

Northeast

00000000000

Albany

Bern Switzerland

Bonn Germany

Boston

London England

Mexico City Mexico

New York City

Newark

Paris France

Philadelphia

Rome Italy

• All above

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Charlotte

Jackson

Jacksonville

Knoxville

Memphis

Miami

Mobile

New Orleans

Norfolk

Quantico

Richmond

San Juan

Savannah

Tampa

Washington Field

All above

• Buffalo

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Houston

Indianapolis

Kansas

City

Little Rock

• Louisville

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Pittsburgh

• San Antonio

• Springfield

St. Louis

• All above

Western

• Albuquerque

• Anchorage

• Butte

• Honolulu

• Las Vegas

Los Angeles

Phoenix

• Portiand

Sacramento

Salt Lake City

San Diego

• San Francisco

Seattle

• All above

Judith Campull

8/11/46 ARA sephin hit 88-64978-431,479,

3,495-11]

1:967-57-166804-304 - taus Gardue

X/I

+66-1741-181

92-62-84404- Val 10 -Doc

46-1712-3-P0C

Consolidated by

Date

Reviewed by

Date

| - Identical

File Review Symbols

NI - Not identical

? - Not identifiable

U - Unavailable reference

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32320063 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995) .

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

DEADLINE 07/10/1997

To:

All Field Offices

All Legats

Date:

06/19/1997

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm. 6362

Contact:

Yvonne Brewer, Ext. 9238

Approved By:

Drafted By:

Keeley Carol All

Keley Carol till

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title:

John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The JFK Task Force (JFKTF) requests all offices and

legats to search for records and forward records to the JFKTF.

Enclosures:

Copy of the letter received from the Assassination

Records

Review Board (the Board).

Details:

In 1992, Congress signed the Act mandating federal

agencies to release all documents concerning the presidential

assassination or information related by conspiracy theory to the

assassination. The Act narrowly defined the types of information

agencies could still protect by postponement until the year

2017. The Act also established the Board as a separate entity to

oversee the release of material from the federal agencies to the

National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Beyond the

Board's oversight responsibilities,

the Act charged the Board

with the duties of reviewing agencies' proposed postponements

with the agencies' evidence for approval or denial and

researching additional areas of information for new material

related to the assassination.

The FBI has been working with the

Board since its inception to meet the requirements of the Act.

On November 29, 1996, the Boa d wrote a letter to the

FBI setting forth a formal compliance program.

The letter

requested the FRI's cooperation with the Board "in discharging its

responsibility of assuring Congress and the American people that

the goals of the JFK Act will be accomplished to the greatest

reasonable extent."

The compliance program is the Board's answer

to demonstrating "to the American public that a thorough, good-

faith, and diligent effort have been made to locate and release

all rema

ry ass

nation related rei.rds within the control

the Uni.-i Crates vuvernment land that the Govenient is not

hiding any such materials from public disclosure)."

With this

philosophy in mind, the Board has forwarded letters to the FBI

requesting additional information for their review and possible.

DocId: 32320063 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

. *

To: All Field -rices

Affairs

From: Office of Public and Congressional

Re :

62-HQ-1029205, 06/19/1997

inclusion in the JFK collection.

On June 18, 1997, the JFKTF received a letter from the

Board requesting all

files

and documents for Judith Campbell

Exner, a.k.a. Judith Immoor, Judith Campbell, Judith Eileen Von

Immoor, Judy Campbell, and Judy Exner.

Ms. Campbell was born in

the state of New York

with a possible birth year of 1934. Each

office and legat should search all their systems (general

indices, confidential indices, ELSURS; etc.) for all information

(main files, see references,

ELSUR logs, etc.) related to

Ms. Campbell. The original

documents suld be transferred to the

JFKTE at FBIHQ by July 10, 1997.

The original documents are necessary to meet the

requirements of the Act.

Should the Board determine the

documents to be assassination records the originals will

eventually be transferred to NARA.

Therefore, any responsive

documents should be copied before forwarding to the JFKTE.

If

the Board decides that the documents do not fall within the realm

of the Act, the documents will be returned to your office, but

not until the Board completes this project.

All offices and legats should respond even if the

search is negative.

The response is important for the FBI's

compliance with the Act.

If you have any questions, please

contact Yvonne Brewer at extension 9238 or Carol Keeley on

extension 9494.

2

DocId: 32320063

Page

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To :

All Field Oirices From: Office of Public and Congressional

Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 06/19/1997

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

ALL RECEIVING OFFICES

Each office and legat is requested to search all their

indices (ie. general indices, confidential indices, ELSUR, etc.)

for all files and references to Judith Campbell Exner.

The

original documents should be forwarded to the JFKTF, FBIHQ, Attn.

vonne Brewer, Poom 6362 by 7/10/1997.

1 - OPCA Front Office,

Rm.. 7240

1

- Ms.

Brewer, Rm. 6362

- Ms. Wilkins, Rm. 6362

1 - Ms. Keeley, Rm. 6362

3

DocId: 32320063

Page

6

---

