# docid-32322943

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/6/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90008-10009

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-5327-3730

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ.

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/03/1964

2

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

RICHARD KAVNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

, DocId: 32322943

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

• RATES (He1427019 49

REC/15

FBI

Date: 2/3/64

Transmit the following in

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-5327).

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (62-12235)

SUBJECT:

JAMES RIDDLE

HOFFA

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

The following is furnished for the information of the

Bureau:

Re: HOFFA Trial

On 1/29/64, NY 2305-C advised that while in washington,

D.C., he had spoken to DAN MAHER concerning HOFFA's current

trial. MAHER told him that in his opinion, the government has

already committed several reversible errors and has given

the defense good grounds on which to appeal,

LAWRENCE

T5KNBERE

fired.

Re: HAROLD GIBBONS

Source advised that HAROLD IBBONS is going on the

payroll of the Teamsters International Union as a Vice

President. He said that LARRY STEINBERG is still on the

International payroll as Administrative

Ive Assistant L DRALFA-

Informant advised that he spoke to HAROLD GIBBONS poEt

and GIBBONS was quite upset.

GIBBONS told him that LOU POLAR

Miami bank official, has been spreading the

story that GIBBONS,

STEINBERG and DICK CAVNER were

"on the take" and because of this

were dismissed "Trom®

the Teamsters

• International Union.

SNER

D.C:

Bureau (63-5327)

New York (137-3504)

1 - New York (62-12235)

REC- 4

63-5327-37914

WAV: pes

(6)

@ FEB A 1964;

FLA

Approved:

60 FED: 1915becial lgent in Charge

Sent

Per .

DocId: 32322943 Page 2

---

