# docid-32313064

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10325-10313

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-80750-4028

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

11/02/1962

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON FILE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC AT

v9.1

DocId: 32313064

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released/under the John F. Kennedy "Assassination Records Collettion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

T5-SEAR

ALL INFORMITION CONTAINED

HERZIN IS LNOLASSTETED EXCEP

DURE SHOPK OTHERWISE.

11/14/62

Airtel

REG®

80750-4028

Oto:

Fron:

SAC, Miami (62-3573)

Director, FBI

Belmont

Sullivan

Wannall

Liaison

Papich

9/8/98

1 = Dunn

GLASSIFIED BY 5668-520/pulk

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

OFK)

XCIA OPERATIONS IN MIAMI

ON THIS DOCUMENT. KP"

148.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

CIA HAS NO OBJEGTION TO

' Reurlet 11/2/62 entitled "CIA Operations. "

This matter has been discussed with CIA by Liaison and

on 11/8/62 its attention was directed to statements attributed to

shackley as set forth in relet.

CIA was advised that Bureau was not

obligated under any cirective or agreement to keep Cl advised on

a current and continuing basis or au developments in the valo case:"s

that we did not have the responsibility of keeping Cis informed

regarding any requests for a particular type of infomation which

the subject night receive from his superiors;

was not octigated te elear anything suemeted by atolor ransmitta

cia was

diction.

lo was pointed out to clA that Shackley's intention was

at variance with long established policy and understanding between

FBI and CIA since CIA is obliged to innediately advise us

when

infornation is received concerning agents operating in this country,

2961 7 LAON

We told CIA we recognized its interest in Cuba and that

182 ANOO

we would make available to it all pertinent information developed

which night have a bearing on its interests.

On 11/9/62 CIA advised by Liaison that it had been

i in

contact with its Miami ortice and that the PBL position was clearly

acceptable and definitely in line with established understandings

Tolson

between FBI and CIA:

CIA representative advised that a communication

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

was being sent to Shackley in order to

certain that he was

correctly oriented and aware of FBI position in this whole matter.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans .

Gale

Rosen

I (105-11553% (Odig) (5)

Sullivan

lavel _ SJP: JJD: smF

Trotter

Tale. Room 101)

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

SUNN

DocId: 32313064

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

'71-14-2017

Airtel

to SAC

Miami

Re: CIA OPERATIONS IN MIAMI

In view of the above, data developed in the odiJ case C SJ

which has a bearing on CIA interests should be made available

to CIA locally.

If you have any questions as to how these matters are

to be handled in the future or if you receive any information that

CIA is not adhering to procedures

agreed upon, promptly advise

Bureau of full facts.

NOTE:

See cover memo Wannall to Sullivan re sane subject,

dated 11/13/62, prepared

by SJP:JJD:smf.

2

DocId: 32313064 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992/4166

- 2107 Note).

PATE: 2I-11-2017

OPTIONAL' FORM NO, 10

aid 5010-104-01

UNITED *STATES OVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohrs

{Ar. Casper.

Iir. Gallahan

JIa. Conrad

V.

jir. jLoach

It. Jrans.

11/2/621ü Rosen

. it. Cullivan

Agent in Miami

Alwin Odio Tamayois a Cuban

who has been turned eversto Bureau by CIA.

Our Miami 'Öffice was scheduled to meet him

Bureau intends

on November 5, 1962, an

a double agent.

operate him as

Mr. Trison?

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr:

Mr.

Casper.

Mr.

Callahan

FROM :

SAC, MIAMI (62-3573) (P)

HE. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Iliss Gandy

SUBJECT:

CIA, OPERATIONS

Re Bureau teletype to Miami

dated 10/31/62 and

Miami teletype to the Bureau, dated 11/1/62, captioned

ALVIN (Or ALBIN) ODIO TAMAYO, IS - CUBA," and Miami teletype,

dated 11/2/62.

INTERNAL SECURITY

As set forth in referenced teletype, on 11/2/62,

Mr. THEODORE SHACKLEY, in charge of CIA covert operations,

Miami, Florida, contacted the Miami Office with reference

to the transfer of subject @DIO to the Miami Office for Cs

possible handling as a double agent.

In this connection

SHACKLEY stated that he had received the following

instructions from his headquarters regarding this operation:

(1) CIA should turn the case of ODIDover to the (SJ

(2) CIA should furnish full background of this

operatlon; as it now stands to the FBl and furnish coptes

of all information in possession of CIA.

(3) CIA should answer any questione propounded

to it By,

the FBI concerning instant case.

(4) In return for the foregoing,

the FBI will keep

CIA

locally advised on a current and continuing basis:of

all developments which take place.

Mr.

Vans

Mr.

Gale.

M". Rosen

Mr.

Sukivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr.

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss

Holmes.

Miss Gandy-

(5) The FBI will furnish CIA information regarding

any requests for a particular type of information which the

subject receives from his superiors Rus MoMenton cartarten

2

Bureau (RM)

WENET IS UNCLASSIVTED EXCH

3

509,

Miam#

WGF : jkj

g 4 40 06 16) 6) 0

(5) пол

62-847348408

55P: 550

antones: 1961

DECLASSIFY ON: 25 Xi Ma

1-47-676

21 2 2 05 64

6 55,67

N9444/6=

BEC.D

BECESED -01

pape

МА ВИДЕГА

BEC

FT

COPY

UNRECORDED

DocId: 32313064

Page 4

---

