# docid-32296983

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10218-10259

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1507

Released under the John

F. kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note..

Case#:NW 45737 Date:

41-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/21/1965

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

• COMMENTS : INC A/T

v9.1

HT 45737

167

DocId: 32296983

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4/22/65

Airtel

TO: SAC, Miami

(*039)

IRS

REVIEWED BY REWUFK TASK FORGE

From: Director, FBI (92-2717) - 15057 ON 1/22/48 dal

ANGELO BRUNO, aka

MAILED 11

APR 2 2 1965

COMM-FBI

I TOTAL DEMAL

On 4/14/65, Philadelphia developed information that

subject was in Miani Beach, Florida, residing in a motel or

hotel in the vicinity of Golden Nugget Hotel.

Philadelphia sources have furnished information on a

daily basis to the effect that subject is in telephonic contact

with his minions, relatives and associates, particularly.

As you are aware,

subject is being sought in order to

serve him with subpoena calling for his appearance before the

Federal Grand Jury in the Southern District of New York inquiring

Into the

JER Law 11(a)

It is also reported that Bruno/contemplates leaving this country

for Italy in the immediate future.

You will exert every logical effort to immediately

locate subject. Appropriate sources at the telephone company

should be contacted to possibly uncover the location from which

subject initiates his telephonic contacts with Philadelphia.

This matter is to be afforded continuous expedite

attention.

The Bureau is to be kept advised.

1 - Philadelphia (92-444)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Roomf Y

Holmes,

Gandy

-(5)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45737 DooId: 32296983

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE. TWO.--

PH (92-444) • 0-0

REVIEWED BY FOWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

RELES IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

NOT AGREE. SANNINI LEFT TESTA SAYING HE WOULD SEE JOE RUGNETTA, WHO

IS PH COSA NOSTRA CONSULIERI. DURING APRIL TWENTY LAST, EVENING,

SOURCE OBSERVED MEETING BETWEEN RUGNETTA AND ALBERI ESPOSITO DURING

WHICH RUGNETTA SUGGESTED NUMBERS LOTTERY ODDS BE REDUCED. RUGNETTA"S

SUGGESTION WAS SAME AS VOICED EARLIER BY SANNINI. ESPOSITO THOUGHT

ODDS REDUCTION WOULD CUT DOWN ON PLAY VOLUME:

MIAMI CONTINUE EFFORTS TO LOCATE BRUNO.

BRUNO CONDIDERED DANGEROUS •

END o

WA.c. BMA

FBI WASH DC

MM. ..PJR

FBI MIAMI

T

HH 45737 DocId: 32296983

Page 3

---

