# docid-32356660

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10102-10112

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the Johr

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 U5C 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY: GILBERTO NOLASCO ALVARADO

UGARTE.

01/01/1900

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: ALVARADO UGARTE

SCHWEIKER REPRT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/19/93

COMMENTS : JFK34 : F14 1993.07.19.18:35:01: 400580

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10102-10112

HH 53294

DocId: 32356660

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CHRONO LOGICAL SUMMARY :

Gilberto. Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

HH

53294

DocId: 32356660 Page 2

#12819

---

## Page 3

ALVARADO Ugarte, Gilberto Nolasco

• In

the following are cited

those portions (including

footnotes) of the SCHWEIKER Report pertaining to Gilberto ALVARADO.

Comments relating to these portions are in roman charachters.

At noon on November 25, "D", a Latin

American, appeared

at the American Embassy in Mexico City 35 (PN: This incident le

discussed in the Warren Report, pp. 308, 309; Cable from Merico

Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/25/63. [Comment: The first cable

in the file announcing ALVARADO's claim is MEXI -7067 (IN 68291)

ALVARADO.

20 November ener

at no time appeared at the American

26 November 1963a dissemination to FBI, State, and the White

House, States No

*On 26 November 1963, Gilberto ALVARADO, a Pro

fessed Castroite Nicaraguan came to the American Embassy 0G

Mexico and made a statement about Lee OSWALD." According to ALVA

RADO's interrogation by Mexican authorities, he calted the Ameri

can Embassy on 75 November and "sueceeded in speaking to-a high

official with whom he made an appointment for that same day at

5:30 p.n. near the Hotel Maria Isabel. Two individuals appeared

3067238

for the appointment." According to a note in the Mexico Station

file, signed by the Embassy Security Officer, A. C. PLAMBECK -

dated 25 November these two men were SNIGHT and PLAMBECK; both

were Embassy security officers. He told Embassy personnel that he

was in the cuban consulate on September 11 and sau Cubans who dis-

cussed assassination pay OSWALD a sun of money.

[Comment: During

his first meeting with Embassy officials, ALVARADO claimed he had

been at the Cuban Consulate on the 18th of September, not the 17th

36

In fact, at no time, did he refer to the date 17 September.

Later,

during his interrogation in connection with

the polygraph examina-

tion on 6 December 1963, ALVARADO revealed he was "unsure of the

day of week allegedly saw OSWALD. Thinks that it was on Tuesday"

which would have been 17 September. (MEXI-7289 (IN 75588), 7 Decem-

ber 1963).1 He later repeated his story to the CIA Mexico Station

IN 53294 DocId: 32356660 Page:

---

## Page 4

Chief. [Comment: At no time, at least there is no mention in the

files, did ALVARADO repeat his story to the "CIA Mexico Station

Chief ALVARADO first told his story, as indicated above, to two

officers from the Embassy Security Office.

The next morning, he

1025737 138

net with PLAMBECK from the Embassy Security Office, and a Station

officer. During another meeting that evening (26 November), ALVA-

1252067

RADO was interrogated by two officers from the Station. (Note for

the Record, dated 25 November 1963, signed by PLANBECK; Memorandur

for Clark ANDERSON, Legal Attache, dated 29 November 1963, from

Winston MS SCOTT.J] The CIA. and the Warren Commission later con-

cluded. that the atory vas a fabrication, but the Agency was clearly

concerned bith "D's atory at the time. 36-(PN..

D later admitted

that the story about OSWALD had been fabricated.

cable from Mexico

City to CIA Headquarters, 11/30/63. It had also been determined

3340 43

by the rBr that OSWALD was probably in New Orleans on September

cable from-CIA Headquarters to Mexico Station, 11/28/63.J [Comment:

There were actually two cables, DIR 85258, 27 November 1963, and

DIR 85653, 28 November 1963, which indicated OSWALD was in New

Orleans on 17 and 19 September 1963.j

Later In that day [26 November 1963], the Merico Station

cabled Readquarters on the details of its interrogation of "D". 39

(FN: Cable from Mexico Station to CIA Headquarters, 1I/26/63.)

[MEXI-7069 (IN 68376), 26 November 1963.l It also reported other

information from a sensitive and reliable source which tended to

confirm "D"a story that OswAld may have been paid by the cuband

to assassinate President Kennedy. [Comment: It would appear from

this statement, the authors of the report were referring to MEXI

7069 (IN 68376); however, this cable does not contain any remarks

alluding to information which "tended to confirm 'D's' story":

This information appears In MEXI-7072 (IN 68406), 26 November 1963;

which contains Ambassador MANN's message to RUSK, McCONE,:

and

HOOVER. MANN's statement reads as follows: White we recognize

lack of established reliability of Nicaraguan and danger of reaching

HW 53291

DocId: 32356660 Page 4

---

## Page 5

3

hasty conclusions, we suggest that DORTICOS' preoccupation with

money angle of interrogation of Silvia DURAN tends to corroborate

to some-extent authenticity of the Nicaraguan's statement.

Thus,

there appears to be a strong possibility that a down payment was

made to OSWALD in the Cuban-Embassy there, presumably with promise

of a subsequent payment after assassination."

The Ambassador was

N2722

reading somewhat nore into the situation than was the case. The

reference to DORTICOS - the Cuban President - relates to two tele

phone conversation between DORTICOS and HERNANDEZ, the Cuban Amba-

242468

ssador to Mexico, on 26 November 1963.

The first conversation,

which took place at 0924, was forwarded, In resume, to Headquarters

on 26 November 1963 (MEXI-7068 IN; the second conversations

which took place at 1839, was forwarded, in resume, to Headquarters

on. 27 November 1963 (MEXI-7097 IN

) In the first conversa-

tion DORTICOS asks (if) "the Federals of that country wanted Senora

DURAN to say something, that they had some interest in, and had

offered

some money to the American?"' To which HERNANDEZ answers

that there was nothing about money. In the second conversation,

DORTICOS is quoted as saying: "I was referring as to whether they

had threatened her so that she would make a statement that the Con-

sulate had given money to the man - that American."

HERNANDEZ ans

wered that "nothing absolutely was given her" [sic]. It would not

appear from a close reading of these two conversations that they

contain information "which tended to confirm 'D's' story a 2

This report has never been satisfactorily explained, although it

was made available to the warren Commission Staff. In any event,

these reports certainly must have fueled suspicions of cuban in-

volvement in the assassination. Based on the evidence it reviewed,

the warren Commission later determined that "D''s story was a fabri

cation. [Comment: This statement appears to be gratitous the

Warren Commission did not ask about the ALVARADO case until 21

Apri]-1964. On that date RANKIN addressed a letter to Richard

HELMS in which he stated inter alia "We are aware, of course,

from previous reports that the allegations made by ALVARADO were

HH

53294 DocId:32356660 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4.-

thoroughly investigated by Central Intelligence Agency and Federal

-Bureau of Investigation representatives in Mexico City in liaison

with the responsible Mexican law enforcement authorities.

Refer

S82069

ence is made to the discussion of these allegations in your memo

randum dated January 31, 1964, at pages 11 - 14

"Upon review of our complete file on this matter, we

find that we_lack full documentation of the investigation_conducted

of these allegations. It would be helpful if our records could be

supplemented by a report from your Agency supplying more details

regarding the investigation undertaken by your Agency and other con

cerned Agencies Into this matter and your evaluation as to the truth

of ALVARADO's assertions. In particular, it would be helpful if a

report could be submitted by the expert who conducted the polygraph

examination which emphasizes. the specific conclusions which he made

based on the responses by ALVARADO in answering key questions on

this matter." (Letter to Richard HELMS, DDP, dated 21 April 1964,

from

J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel.) The Agency responded on 1

June 1964. (Memorandum to J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964, from

Richard HELMS, DDP: Subject: Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.)]

The American Ambassador in Mexico later sent a cable

[MEXI-7072 (IN 68406), 26 November 1963] to State Department through

CIA channels. In that cable he gave his opinion that the cubans

were involved in the assassination, and recommended certain inves -

tigative steps which should be taken in Mexico.

- 40. (EN:

cable. from

Mexico Station to CIA Headquarters, 11/26/63.)

By November 27, the Mèxico Station and CIA Headquarters

were also beginning to question the accuracy of "Du's stroy. The

cabtes between the Mexico Station and Headquarters indicate the

possibitity that the story was a fabrication. Neverthetess, on

November 28, Headquarters cabled a reminder to the Mesico Station

7504

to"follow-all leadgl.-The station was instructed to continue-in-

vestigating the possibitity of cuban or soviet involvement, because

Headquarters had not excluded the possibility that other persons

TW 53294 DocId: 32356660 Page 6

---

## Page 7

were involved with OSWALD.11 (PN: A cable from CIA Headquartere

to lenioo Station, 11128/031 DIR 85655, 28 November 19631

Later that day 127 Novemberl Headquarters leared that

Mexican authoritico planned to arrest silvia DURAN again and warned

the station that the Mericans must take responsibility for the ar

rest. After learning that the u.s. Ambassador was continuing to

press for a vigorous investigation into cuban involvement, Head

quarters also warned the station Chief that the Ambassador was

pushing the case too hard and his proposals could lead to a "flap"

with the Cubans. "6 (EN: A cable from CIA Headquarters to Mexico

station, 11/28/63. DIR 85655, 28 November 19631 Finally, the

Agency concluded that "D"'e story was a fabrication and terminated

its interest in him,

47. 30

On November 30, Director MeCONE met with the President

at 110.m.

While there was a discussion of the allegations

made by "D" the memorandum

records no action was required on the

"OSWALD situation" 49 (EN: Memo-andum for the Record by Director

Mccone,

12/2/63) [Comment=

Memorandum not available in the file.l

On

December 1, McCONE met with the President and BUNDY:

MCCONE's memorandum of the meeting indicates they again discussed

"D"'s story. Later that day, Headquarters cabled the Mexico Station

and stated that the white House had been told the story was

a fabri

cation.

Later that day (2 December], the Mexico Sta-

reported it had reason to doubt its earlier conclusion that "D"

was fabricating.

Comment: The authors of the Report give no

source for this statement. Moreover, they leave the reader in the

air as to-what was-the outcome of further investigation to deter

-mine whether the-eartier-conclusion-that ALAVARDO was fabricating

-was an accurate conclusion. The-facts are-as follows:

On 2 December, Captain WHEELOCK* saw ALAVARDO during-the

Captain Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia, chief of the Anti-

Communist Section of the Nicaraguan Office of National Security,

HH 53294 DocId:32356660

Page 7

---

## Page 8

: 6

On 2 December, Captain WHEELOCK saw ALVARADO during the

afternoon for the first time. In a brief interview; which lasted

only seven-minutes, in the company of two Mexican officials

ALVARADO reverted to his previous story. He claimed he did see

OSWALD and that he did call the Embassy to report. (Latter state-

ment not supported by Embassy investigation.) ALVARADO went on to

say that he told the Mexicans he was fabricating because he was

"mentally mistreated", specifically because he was threatened that

he would be hanged by the testicles. Actually he was not-physically

mistreated. WHEELOCK said he was unable to come to any definite

conclusion as to ALVARADO'S veracity, however, he would be able to

do so once he returned to Managua and had a chance to complete the

interrogation. (MEXI-7023 IN 71702, 2 December 1963)

On 3 December 1963, Headquarters tells the Mexico Sta-

tion that although Headquarters is confident that ALVARADO is a

fabricator and that his retraction of his confession is false,

it

has been decided that he should be placed on the polygraph.

Head-

quarters asks that the Station arrange to have ALVARADO released

to CIA custody for several days and ask WHEELOCK to remain in Mexi

co. to assist.

A polygraph operator from the Office of Security will

arrive on 4 December. He will be incharge of the polygraph inter-

view,

but will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON (Legal Attache) , who

has been selected as an interpreter.

The FBI will notify ANDERSON

of this. (DIR 86563, 3 December 1963)

* Captain Franklin Anthony_WHEELOCK Garcia, Chief of the Anti-

Communist Section of the Nicaraguan Office of National Security,

arrived in Mexico City on 29 November 1963.

_WHEELOCK went.to

Mexico in response to Mexico Station's request for assistance in

interrogating ALVARADO. For further details see accompanying

chronological sunmary on Gilberto ALVARADO.

NW 53294: Docid: 32356660 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-7

ECHEVARRIA, the Acting inister of (obernacion, agreed

to permit CIA to "borrow" ALVARADO. - The plan was to pick up

ALVARADO-on S December and return him that evening. (MEXI-7229

IN 72877, 3 December 1963) ALVARADO was picked up as planned and

underwent preliminary questioning on-5- December. The next day-he

underwent a polygraph interview. The results of this interview

indicated that ALVARADO was-fabricating his story. Interrogation

revealed that he was unsure as to the exact day of the week he alle-

201/2

gedly saw OSWALD. He thought it was on a Tuesday which would have

259e00

been the 17th of September. When ALVARADO was shown a series of

95702

photographs during the testing, deception patterns became evident

When he was confronted with this he answered that he had the utmost

confidence in the polygraph and that it must be correct. The in-

terrogation was concluded with ALVARADO admitting he must have made

an "honest mistake!" in relating the original story in his identifi

cation of -OSWALD.

(MEXI - 7289 IN 75588, 7 December)

Following the receipt of the results of the above inter

view with ALVARADO, Headquarters disseminated the results to the

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

"The re-interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

Nicaraguan informant who claimed to have seen

Lee OSWALD receive money to assassinate Kennedy;

has been concluded.

-Our Mexico-City Station ad-

vises us that ALVARADO admitted he must have

been mistaken in saying that he saw OSWALD in

the Cuban Embassy. Also, he was uncertain of

the date on which he might have seen someone

like OSWALD and thought it must have been on a

which would have made it 17 September

Toes. Although the final report of the poly-

graph interview is not yet available,

the pre-

liminary, finding is that ALVARADO evidenced

deception reactions when talking about OSWALD.

"It is expected that ALVARADO will be de-

ported to Nicaragua on 9 December 1963.

"A representative of your Bureau partici-

pated in the interrogation of ALVARADO.

(DIR 87667, 7 December 1963)

Except for forwarding to the Warren Commission various

reported material on ALVARADO, the Agency had completed its inves-

tigation of the allegation that the Cuban Consulate had given

IH 53294 • DocId:32356660 Page 9

---

## Page 10

OSWALD six thousand five hundred dollars to assassinate an un-

named-target:

HH 53294

DocId: 32356660 Page 10

---

