# docid-32586397

## Page 1

CTANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office M

I • UNITED

GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

: Director, FBI (92-2781)

Legal Attache, Havana (92-1)

SANTOS TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

DATE: August 24, 1959

Re Havana letter dated July 13, 1959.

2.5.47

On August 20, 1959, HAROLD MILKS, Associated Press cor-

respondent, Havana, advised

that SANTOS TRAFFICANTE and HENRY

SAAVEDRA, who represents the subject's interests in the Hotel Capri,

had been provisionally released by Cuban

Immigration authorities

from Tiscornia Prison where they had been incarcerated for the

past two months.

MILKS stated that the Cuban Government claimed

that insufficient evidence had been developed to warrant the de-

portation of subject andSAAVEDRA from Cuba but that investigation

concerning this matter was being continued by the Cuban Government.

On August 10, 1959, HAV-33 informed that during their stay

'in Tiscornia TRAFFICANTE and SAAVEDRA had "lived like kings." Source

said that almost all guards in the prison had been bribed by subject

in order to insure that the subject had the most comfortable ac-

commodations possible.

Source said that subject's food was brought

in on a daily basis to him from outside the prison and that he was

allowed any number of visitors he desired.

On July 13, 1959, PCI ALBERTO SUAREZ ALEMAN, doorman at

the apartment building where TRAFFICANTE resides at Calle 12 No. 20,

Havana,

advised he had attended the wedding of subject's daughter

as an invited guest.

Source noted that most of those present at

the wedding were employees from the various casinos in Havana and

that the only outsiders were subject's immediate family and one or

two close friends from Tampa, Florida.

HAV-31 advised that he also had attended

the wedding fu TRAfrIcaNTa's daushter but that there had been en

important hoodlums from the United States at the wedding.

Source

noted that TRAFFICANTE'S brothers,

as well as a close associate

named JIMMIELONGO CA

were present

at the wedding.

Extra copies of this letter have been prepared for for-

warding by the Bureau to Albany, Miami, and New York.

Une 31

i v:

3119.

951-108

REC-63

HAE DIA

16 AUG 27 1959

8 - Bureau

• (2 - Albany

2 - Miami

2

- New York)

1 - Havana

DJB: 1g 1013

(OSSEP 1

1359

X20%

NW 45966

DooId: 32586397 Page 1

---

