# docid-32296879

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10155

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1402

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/17/1964

4

ABR, LCN, OFFICE, ADMIN, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9,1

DocId: 32296879

Page 1

139

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444 Sub D)

EG- 139.

Direc

FBI (92-2717)

ANGELO BRUNO,

AR

1402

12/2g/64

JUNE

Reurlet 12-17-64.

Provided full security assured, authority granted

it reasible, re-establish misur coverage in the

subject's office, 775 South 8th Street, Philadelphia.

You are

nor authorized, however, to utilize either the 42A or 44A block

type misur.

Promptly advise Bureau when source activated and

symbol number assigned.

fron date source activated.

This authority is for a 30-day period

Furnish the Bureau a weekly airtel summary of

significant information obtained from this source. In the

event an installation is effected, subnit an appropriate

FD-142.

You are alse authorized, provided full security

assured,

to retrieve eguipment previously used in misur

coverage in the building at 775 South 8th Street.

COMM-FBI

DEC

28

1964

Tolson -

Belmont.

Mohr.-

DeLoach -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad _

Evans -

Gale.

Rosen -

Sullivan -

T'avel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

NOTE: Angelo Bruno is the leader of La Cosa Nostra in Philadelphia

and a member of the "Commission." PHO previously had a most

productive misur in Bruno's office at the above location. Source

Jas discontinued prior to the time Bruno was on trial.

Adue to technical difficulties they were unable to reactivate

previous coverage at this location and entry into the building by

the PHO revealed the offices had been renovated and that Bruno now

had his office in the rear of the building. PHO requests authority

to install misur coverage in Bruno's office.

In view of the proven

capability of previous coverage in his office to provide significant

criminal intelligence information, it is recommended that the request

of the PHO be approved.

1

- J.

-1

-J:

D. Donohue

HF

P. Flynn

-JEK: ral: dn

(6)

MAIL ROO

Yone The are'

DEC A

DocId: 32296879

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Jghn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-444 Sub D

It is noted that PH 623-0* was operating in the

first floor front offices at 775 South 8th Street, utilizing

two altered 44A blocks. On 12/16/64 it was ascertained

that during period this source was inoperative there had

been a change of telephone service at this address.

A

telephone utilized by the son of ANGELO BRUNO in the first

fl00r rear office had been moved to the front office.

additional telephone had been installed in the front office

answered on the lane instrumere both there need conta be

change one 44A block was determined to be missing:

second 44A block was determined to be in place in what hac

previously been ANGELO BRUNO's private office in the front

portion of the building.

44A block, however, was in-

operative due to the fact that the wiring had been rearranged.

There were found to be two pairs of wires on #7

and #8 on this altered 44A block. Time did not permit the

removal of this altered 44A block.

This will have to be

done at the earliest possible opportunity.

While in the building a survey was made to determine

if it was feasible to obtain technical coverage in the rear

room of this address, noting

obtained in this location. It was further noted that the

this location ne

that coverage was previously

wires previously used for coverage in the rear office had

been utilized in transferring the telephone service from the

rear office up to the front of the building by the Telepbone

Company when making the above-described telephone changes.

Considering that ANGELO BRUNO is making repairs

to this rear office and is apparently contemplating using

this rear office, coverage at this location would be of the

utmost importance.

Ihe continuation of coverage in the

front office has lost its importance inasmuch as it is

known now that ANGELO BRUNO's son utilizes the front office

in the operation of his business, the Globe Sanitation Company.

Accordingly, Phila. will continue efforts to remove

the altered 44A block

in the

front offices of 775 South 8th

Street. Inasmuch as entry to this address is necessary to

retrieve this property, it is requested that Bureau authority

be granted to make this entry at the opportune time commensurate

with full security.

- 2 -

DocId: 32296879 Page 3

---

