# docid-32308775

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10296-10103

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 72-1511-52

Released under the John

i Remination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45927 Date:

41-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

STOKES, LINCOLN J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/12/1963

PAGES: 54

SUBJECTS :

APR, TRIAL, ASSOC, TEAMSTERS, NUMEROUS INTV,

MURDER, GLOCKNER, WALTER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45927

DocId: 32308775

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1

NK 72-58

LJS :maj

WEK Act 6

(4)

Newark PCI

SaVIEed SA NORBERT R.N. J.

LINKER on May 29, 1963, and May 31, 1963, that he has made

anguiry among his associates concering the WALTER GLOCKER

His assoclates are of the opinion that the most

popular motive among the gambling element is that

WALTER GLOCKNYR was a shylock and that he possibly was

murdered as a result of having refused to heed and follow

orders to stop infringing on shylock territories heretofore

controlled by other shylock operations.

PCI further states that another theory is that

GLOCKNER was murdered because he was a member of an insurgent

group in Local 560, IBT, and could possibly have furnished

damaging testimony in the extortion trial involving ANTHONY

PROVENZANO, alse known as Tony Pro.

The PCI states that GLOCKNER allegedly had a shylock

operation with ROBERT GWINNETT.

This operation reportedly

centered in Hoboken.

The PCI stated that ROBERT GWINNETT and

WILLIAM P. BRYAN reportedly received letters and/or phone

calls shortly after the GLOCKNER murder in which thoy were

warned that they would be the next victims.

PCI indicated that he was making further inquiry

Into the alleged shylock operation of GLOCKNER and

his associates.

PCI siated that GLOCKER aad GWINNETT frequent the

Ciub Jaguar, 111 Vonroe Street, Hokoken, New Jersey, which

formerly was known as tha Satellite Bar.

PCI stated that it appears to be common knowledge

among the gambling element in Hoboken that UBALDO SANTA CROCE,

also known as Cisco, had reportedly been living in Florida

New. Jersey, sometime prior to the GLOCKNER murder for no apparent

-reason. PCI stated that CISCO reportedly left town sometime

after the GLOCKNER murder.

COVER PAGE

ITH 45927

DocId: 32308775

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 72-58

LTS maj

In elaborating on the alleged shylocking involving

GLOCKNER, PCI stated that JOHN O'SHEA, who is the owner Go

0? Shea's

Bar in hoboker, Now Jerssy, was known to be shylocking

money in Hobosen. O Shea's Bar located at 404 Newark Street in

Hoboken is used as a meeting place for many of the members of

LocaL 550, IBT, and a "shape-up" is located for Local 560

adjacent to O'Shea's Bar.

PCI advised that GLOCKER possibly may have been infring-

ing upon O'SHEA's territory is regard to shylocking.

FJEK Act 6 (4)

The abore information furnished by PCI L

is gathered from contacts with various mentors of the

Teansters Union and individuals-involved with the criminal

element in the Hoboken, New Jersey, area. PCI stated he

has no substantiation for the above inormation concerning

GLOCKNER's shylock operation He indicated that the above

information consists mostly of rumors and heaisay.

COVER PAGE

ITH 45927

DocId: 32308775

Page

---

