# docid-32303657

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10169

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-84449-3X

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) •

53130 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: STAFFORD, LEMAN L. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/22/1960

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

EPE, ACOSTA, JOSE IGNACIO, AKA, ASSOC, POLIT, ACA,

CUBA LIBRE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32303657

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2130

Subject denied knowing any jewel thieves or

fences in the United States.

He concluded the interview

by emphatically denying that he had any knowledge of

stolen jewelry in the United States, and that he would

furnish any such information

to the

FBI, should

come to his attention.

same

Pertinent information obtained from subject's

associates is

set forth in the details of this report.

No information was developed to substantiate the original

allegation received from MM 676-PC, and the case was

closed on July 1, 1959. •

It should be noted that contained in this report

is an FD-302 reflecting interview of Mr. VINCENT D'AMATO

re subject's activities, as well as those of "Cuba Libre."

This interview is contained in this report, and also

appears in the report under the caption of "CUBA LIBRE"

(Post Office Box 2235, Miami 1, Florida, RA-CUBA." (Miami

file 97-309.

INFORMANTS

Location of Original Information

134-370 Sub A 17, 18, 23, 25

Identity of Source

MM T-1 is RICHARD

B. JAFFE, PSI (under

development) Miami, Fla.,

contacted by SA LEMAN

L. STAFFORD, JR.

•E-

COVER PAGE

NH 53130

DocId: 32303657

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-2130

MM T-2 is MM 639-S,

contacted by SA

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

Instant report, page_

5

MM T-3 is PCI

BERNARD BRENNAN,

Miami, Fla.,

contacted by SA WILLIAM

A. WIGHTMAN

MM I-4 Gs CIA, in

Butel to

Miami,

10/9/59

(U)

MM T-5 is WILLIAM

B. ANDERSON, US Post

Office Inspector's

Office, Miami, Fla.,

contacted by SA LEMAN

L. STAFFORD

Coy requests It!

Instant report, page

7-475-9

Instant report, page_ , 5

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and "T" symbols were

utilized only in those instances where identities must

be concealed.

•F*.

COVER PAGE

HH 53130

DocId: 32303657

Page 3

---

