# docid-32570092

## Page 1

UMUNAL YOUM NO. 149

3010-106

I•M LOSE EDITION

For.NO...

VITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

SECRED

Nro D. J. Brennan, JEoP

on Jord. Founde, dt. 08001-113/0)

Classmed

ROBERTO ALFUNSO

Declassify

an: 0

ANTI-CASTRO_ ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

DATE: 5/21/65

Tolson

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION-TO

DECLASSIFICATION END/OR,

RELEASE GF CIA ISPORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

excopt the BRAcus

MKH: 68-98

Tele. Room

"34)

2-230098

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SIORS

CLASSIFY ON: 25X_

At 4:50 p.m.

Watch Officer, Central

intelligence Agency (CIA),

concerning an additional item which relates to information furnishec

earlier that there was to be a denonstration in Times Square, New York

CIty!

on the evening of 5/20/05. Neff sald that the same source who

furnished above-mentioned information had now advised that captioned

individual

a member of the Legion of Baragua,

and 8 other Cuban exiles

were planning to enter the Russian Consulate in New York City and assault

the occupants.

This action reportedly planned to coincide with the

demonstration at Times Square scheduled for 7:00 p.m. on 5/20/65. Neff]

also stated that this information could be passed

to local authorities

in New York City and that CIA had already advised the State Department

150050

ACTION: * Refer to Nationalities Intelligence Section.

This was orally

4211

furnished to Supervisor V. H. Nasca at 5:03 p.M., 5/20/65.

Glassim

bY SATACA

Declassify

CADR / 51/85

1109-58% Za

AT. LAFORMATION CONTAINED

IBRAIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

RONN

EXCAPT WADRO

SEE REVIRSE

advise chal folice auth mitin,

Frank staccent, hes Hills adwind with.,

CLASSIFICATIG

1 - Mr. Nasca

1i

- Liaison

- Mr. Foarde

ded meet macrestige as income Peti

NO JUN 8 1965

TA 26n9551 +--4-86601

SECRED

105 - 1104/28

HH 45825

DooId: 32570092

Page 1

---

