# docid-32323932

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

•4/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90022-10029

HQ

92-9792-24

Ollection

Act of 1992

144

2107 NOtEl.

Case#: NU

15744 Date: 11-16-201

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/21/1970

14

SAM CAMPISI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 45744

DooId:32323932

Page 1

---

## Page 2

..-

DL 92-657

DALLAS

AT LEONARD, TEXAS. Will determine identity of

subscriber to telephone number 214-587-3526 and conduct

investigation as requested above.

2. Will continue to follow and report subject'

activities.

3. Will continue to obtain and review subject's

long distance telephone records.

ADMINISTRATIVE

DL I-1 is DI 99-C contacted by SA JOHN J. LANDERS.

DI T-2 is DI 444-C contacted by SA WILLIAM B.

HOLLOMAN.

- Вж -

COVER PAGE

HW 45744

DocId: 32323932

Page

---

## Page 3

.FD-204 {7ey.3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Fort Worth, Texas (RM)

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

JOHN J. LANDERS

11/21/70

92-657

SAM CAMPISI

Office:

Dallas, Texas

Bureau File #:

92-9792

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REVIEWED SY EBUJFK TASK FORCE.

ON

10/14/97 ryalet

I RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

ET TOTAL DENIAL

JEK Law 10(a) 2

Synopsis:

1970, 0b-

tained by FGJ subpoena.

Records of Passport Office

Department

Washington, D.C., reflect subject issued Passport

Louisiana, 7/20/70, for. travel

-₽ -

DETAILS: AI WASHINGION, D.C.

Department of

depart by air

Joy 16about, about Septembers

he stated his intention to

, 1970. This passport was

valid for five years'

travel to

all countries except Cuba,

Mainland China, North Korea and North Vietnam.

Under passport regulations, subject may use this

passport for lawful travel within the period of its validity

whenever and as often as desired without further notification

to the Department of state or other government agency.

Passport Office does not receive information as to whether or

when a passport is used for foreign travel.

92.9792-24

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property, of the FBl and is loaned t

our agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency

HH 45744

DocId: 32323932

Page 3

---

