# docid-32142094

## Page 1

8/25/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10069-10065

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-1367

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

: CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO : DIRECTOR,

TITLE : No Titlel

• 04/03/1964

PAGES

:120

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JR, SUMMARY OF TRIAL,

VERDICT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 09/03/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REPORI, TABLE OF CONTENTS INDEX PAGES A-E, INCLUDES

ONE ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE, THREE EXHIBITS

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

Exit JFK

112

---

## Page 2

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN ON

DALLAS

DANTIAL

4/3/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/25/63 - 4/1/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

eah

JACK L.

RUBY aka;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

• aka - VICTIM

(DECEASED)

DECLASGITIER EY 9803 ROD/KER

CR

2: 5-93.

REFERENCES &

JER Special

M.T.

3. 2. CReD

P: DO X0927.

Reports of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS,

Dallas, dated 11/30, 12/6,11,14,

18,19,21,31/638 1/8,17,31, 2/18, 3/28/64.

-P-

ENCS. TO BUREAU:

Canadad i

161548/2/3/89

Three sets each of photos:

(1) Bnvelope and letter addressed to JACK I. RUBY

(2) Two-page handprinted Application for Employment

Of JENO FARKAS

(3) Four pages of handwriting reported to be that of

FARKAS

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

- BURKAU (44-24016) (ENCS. -9)

53

APR 10 4984(44-1639)

OSTED

INCIDSURE ATTACHED

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

1442122

TGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

1-1-1.11

SY..

NW 44153

DocId: 32142094

Page 2

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

44-

24016-1367

17 APR

8 1984

-

REG- 115

NEC-

44

NOTATIONS

CONFI

DANTIAN"

---

## Page 3

#645%

a.

9/23/8

DL 44-1639/eah

CONFIDANTIAL

ADMINISTRATIVE

Reference is made to pages 40 - 48, report of SA

MANNING C. CLEMENTS, 2/18/64, relative to allegations RUBY

was in Cuba in late 1962 and early 1963,

and specifically

to the allegation he traveled to Cuba by air from Mexico City.

Legat, Mexico City,

by communication 3/6/65, furnished

Information received from CIA in a memorandum dated 2/27/64,

as follows;

"Information available to this office fails to

NW 44153

CLEMENTS, concerning efforts

whom RUBY had allegedly been in contact regarding shipment

merchandise to 'Cuba.

The Miami Office has advised as follows:

Zla

on 3/5/64, MM 639-S, true name

advised he had seen

newspaper

photographs of JACK LEON RUBY

but had never seen him before, never had any dealings with

anyone with that name and had

never met him in Houston, Texas.

It 1s noted MM 639-S 1s from Chicago, Illinois;

Palm Beach and Miami, Florida,

and does not have any criminal

record.

Miami sources and informants were contacted with

negative results concerning the identity of DAVIS.

Local federal agencies advised they do not know

anyone possibly identical with DAVIS.

Reference is made to page 772, report of SA MANNING

c. CLEMENTS, 11/30/64, Dallas, and Dallas airtel 1/29/64,

soncerning a notation found in effects of RUBY, as follows:

"CARLOS CAMORGO (probably CAMARGO), telephone

14-9628, Mexico City•

- C -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32142094

CONFIOEXIAL

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

SA 44-748

CONFIDEXTIAL

The following investigation was conducted by

GA ROBERT L. CHAPMAN:

CAT NUEVO LAREDO, MEXICO RU)

B7d

On November 25, 1963, PCI JOSE CAMACHO advised

that an American male was at the Papagayo Club at Nuevo

Laredo and had made the statement he was acquainted with

JACK RUBY, the person who had killed LEE HARVEY OSWALD. @ (U)

On November 25, 1963, SA 496-C advised that he

had located the above

person named JAMES WeLLS at the

Papagayo Club and that WELLS was then at the Nuevo Laredo

Police Department. (DU)

_I-

COVERPAGE

HH 44153

Docka: 32142094 Pago SONTIDEXIIA1

---

