# docid-32140798

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10062-10385

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-1976

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE : (No Titlel

DATE: 01/24/1964

PAGES

3

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, POST-RE, BKG, ACT, CP, TRAVEL TO MX, ADMIN, INSTR

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4'

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

* Hits 1-1 of 1

• %

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Doc htp/Rwwvh8798/cgFkigstarfinder/8481/jfksnew.bd

1/1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records coltection

1997-444

SINTED STATES GOV. MENT

5010-104=91

Memoranuum

NED

HOWN

ITON

SITED BY

DECLA

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

DATE: 1/24/64

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO (105-3702) (P)

SUBJECT

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AI

AKA

Immediately following the assassination of President

KENNEDY on 11/22/63, all sources of this office were instructed

to be alert for any information which would tend to indicate

a connection between OSWALD and the: Cubans or the Communist

following

and AWEX-19%

2s a summary of information furnished

bọth of whom have furnished reliable

information

past, since that time.

On 12/6/63 sources reported that ELIZABETH CATLETT

MORA, aka BETTY MORA. Bufile 100-395934, had been very upset

and excited over

the involvement of OSWALD as the reported

assassin of the President.

She indicated that the Communist

Party of Mexico was very interested in obtaining all the

information available concerning OSWALD's travel to Mexico

and particularly. as to how much

the American authorities know

MORA told informants that the only way OSWALD could

be linked "to Mexico" was through his activities before his

trip to the Soviet Union,

She was very interested in

obtaining information concerning the date OSWALD departed for

Russia. MORA considered it "terribly important" to have any

references to OSWALD's activities in New Orleans before

he went to Russia.

She stated that if something regarding

his activities at

that time appeared in the press it could

"blow the lid and we could all get fried." MORA indicated

to

informants

that she could not understand why the investigation

of OSWALD, as reported up to that time in the press, had not

focused on New Orleans instead of on Dallas. (X)(u)

MORA told the sources that OSWALD was well-known in

Russia among the Americans who were there at the same time

31

7 - Bureau

- Liaison Section i s

(2 - Dallas, 100-10461-

1.-

(2 - New Orleans,

100-1$601)

Mexico City

CDA: plb

(8)

19-103827

REC: 5425-825555-1976

• JAILI

319690883146 Fathe

dassifie

9803188/gel

open prior selease.

uy note).

DocId: 32140798

Page 2

---

