# docid-32290641

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10417

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-251

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/30/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/04/1997

CM, ASSOC, GUATEMALA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

16

NW 45855 DocId: 32290641 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PTIONAL FORM NO. 1

010-104-01

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI (92-2713)

DATE:

11/30/61

FROM

Legat, Mexico (92-17) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

CARLOS

MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Remyairtel 10/5/61.

On 11/17/61

I (protect identity OTHER 4 Foreign

Assistant Head of Security, Special Investigations, Banco

de Guatemala (Bank of Guatemala) Police, was contacted at

Guatemala City.

advised he had

• caused a discreet

Investigation to be made in efforts to determine whether

MARCELLO might have had some specific connection with

KENNETH GRAYSON PAXTON and JOSEPH THERION BRAMLETT in the past.

related they had been

unable to develop any pertinent

Information in that regard.

on 11/17/61 U. S. Consul PETER J. PETERSON, U. S.

Embassy, Guatemala City, advised he has received no further

pertinent information regarding this matter, nor any

information regarding PAXTON or BRAMLETT's activities.

Inasmuch as inquiry in this matter in Guatemala

thus far has failed to develop any information as to any

specific connection between MARCELLO, PAXTON and BRAMLETT,

and in the absence of any further request for investigation

In Guatemela, this file 1s being Rucid.

An extra copy of this communication 1s being

furnished for the information of the Dallas Office In view

of investigation conducted by that office in this matter in

the past.

2olo1

sent

6 - Bureau

(1-=

Liaison Section)

(1 - Dallas - Info.)

(2 - New Orleans 92-36) REC- 127

• DIA!2104

BECURENE

MEERS, 25,

1.

Mexico City

HJP/bje

(7)

1 2 08th, 1112116t

nilverta

EBI

Westing

502-10411

HW

45855 DocId: 32290641 Page 2

---

