# docid-32202557

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

SSCIA

157-10005-10367

RECORD SERIES :

CORRESPONDENCE FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54214 Date:

09-11-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

SSCIA

DOD

TITLE: DOD CORRESPONDENCE & MATERIAL RE: OSWALD

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/00/1963

163

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: •

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

CORRESPONDECE FILES FROM DOD RE: OSWALD

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Consulted; 3; Donor Restricted

Redact

03/08/1994

BOX 376

N9.1

HH

54214

DoeId: 32202557

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

NW 54214 DocId: 32202557

OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

ND6/0010D/IIP/emo

Ser:

703

27 NOV 1963

Mr. Lewis T. Fuff

U.S. Secret Service

P.O. 30x 245

Columbia, S.G.

Dear Mr. Huff:

Shortly aiter the shooting of President John I. KaNEDY on November 22, 1963,

the District Intelligence Office, Charleston, S.C. was informed that one

Robert C. RAVIS had information relative to the assassination. RAWLS was then

a patient at the U.S. Naval Hospital, Charleston, S.C. He was interviewed by

a reprosentative of the Office of Naval Intelligence from about 1610 to about

1645, and stated substantially as follows:

He was in a bar in New Orleans, La, ten days to two weeks ago when he

heard a man try to bet $100.00 that President KENNEDY would be dead idthin

three weeks. He does not recall ever seeing the man before and is not certain

he would recognize the man if he sax him again. He ainits being sonenhat

Intoxicated and said the man also was in an intozicated condition. He advised

that, at the time, he paid no attention to the man because he thought nit

was just drunk talk and a drunk will bet on anytbing." However, he said

after the shooting of the President, it occurred to him there may have been

maning to the remark and he thought it should be reported to authorities.

Recalling, he said the man who was attempting to place the bet was dressed

Lile "a working man", but beyond that he could offer no description. He

statad he does not recall a bet was actually made. Further, he advised he

does not recall the name of the bar he was in when he heard the remark. He

said he frequents bars within a four or five block radius of tbe 2200/2300-block

of Canal Street, New Orleans, La-, and he often goes to two or three bars

in an evening.

He thinks this particular bar was just off Canal Street, and

he knows he frequently goes to Freddie's Bar and the Straight Day Bar in this

area. He said on the partinular night he heard the remark, he remembers an

ex-lavy friend, Bob TANNER, and TANK's girl friend were with hin. He does

not know if either of them heard the bet attempt, and he does not recall that

they discussed it. He thinks PAINER and his girl friend may have been away

fron the table or the booth at the time the remark was made. Tha mi offering

the bet was not at a table, but was at the bar. He did not hear anyone call

the man by nane. He does rot know TAMER'S New Orleans address and does not

know the nane of TANER'S girl friend. le said, however, she works as a

waltress at the leal-a-linute on Canal Street. (RAIL3,) a unite male, gave his

full name as Fobert Collun RANIS, and his address as 2037 Cleveland St.,

Jaw Orleans, La. He said be is a former Navy quartermaster third class and

No DoD objection to publle disclosure

pursuant to Pile 102-626,0

CUP pa Sec 603

Page 2

ONL

---

## Page 3

ND6/0C 1OD/DNP/emo

Ser:

7000

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

27 NOV 1963

his serial number is 636-84-38. He stated he is presently uployed as an

attendant at Mayfield's Gulf Service Station, Canal and Broad Streets, New

Orleans, La. He said he generally does not get off from work in the evenings

until 2000 at which time he usually visits the bars. He said it was about

2100 or 2200 on the evening in question, when the man atterpted to place

the bet on the life of the President.

U.S. Naval Hospital authorities at Charleston, S.C. indicated RAVIS was at

Charleston to undergo an evaluation physical. They stated when results of

this physical are compiled, a disability evaluation board will study said

results to determine the extent of (RAVLS' handicap. The authorities advise

RAVIS! medical problem was mainly orthopedic, however, they said he does have

a psychiatric past of "passive aggressive reaction with hostile tendencies."

They stated persons with this psychiatric problen are generally reliable

and are considered to be sane.

RAVIS was scheduled to return to his hone at New Orleans on about November

22, 1953,

Forwarded for infomation and as a "follow-up" to the telephonic briefing

made on November 22, 1963.

E. L. McINTOSH, JR.

Copy to:

V DAI

=2-

Si

54214 DocId:32202557

Page 3

---

## Page 4

ORNAV

FROM

SUBJECT

ORIGINATOR'S D/T GROUP

921B seen

421y seem

97100

REFERENCE

TEXT

N2 NISC ARL

MIS 1S DIO-OND CHALLIS

INCHESTER

DIO-3ND TWX 2520542 NOV 63

TO DNI /ATTN

CAPT JACKSON, OP-921/

OSWALD, HARVEY LEE

287/A/ DIO-END 119 DID 4 JUN 53, SUBJ POPE, TRACEY THURLO,

5992944, AA, USN

6ND -386-6/J/-1+

ROBERT KERMIT PATTERSON, ADMITTED 6J WHOSE

INTERVIEW REPORTED IN

REF /A/ CONTACTSO RA DALLAS ABOUT 1330 CST TODAY AND SAID HE HAD

INFO IN RE ASSASSINATION PRESIDENT KENNEDY• PATTERSON SAID HE

AND ONE GOVALO C. STUX STUART OPERATED CONTRACT ELECTRONICS,

2533 ELM, DALLASA

ABOUT 2 WOEKS AGO JACK RUDYXX RUSY /AJXX

/AKA RUBENSTEIN/ AND SUBJ VISITED CONTRACT ELOCTROHICS AND WANTED

WORK DONE ON MICROPHONES AT RUBY,S CATOUSEL VITE CLUB, DALLAS.

ON THIS OSCASION, RUBY TOLD GOVALD TO WRITE NAMES OF PATTERSON

AND STUART LE CAROUSEL GUEST 300K%

CONTRACT ELECERONICS DID

* MENUESTED NINE WORK AT

CAROUSEL AND WERE PAID 3Y

TO EMPLOYEE, 1/ •

SRA DALLAS HAS XX TAKEN PATTERSONITO

FOI DALLAS FOR FURTHER INTERROCATION.

NOITHER ETUART NOR

PATTERSON HAS DISCUSSED AJOVE I FO

x1711 ALYONE ELAXA ELSE,

SORORIES TO RATTERSO..

FILES DIO-OND NEGATIVE ON SIUART.

r. Capt

Bulen - 1310

22i63

fat"

ACTION RECIPIENT will handle this

message

in

the

same

way

as incoming correspondence. Complete the spaces to

the right

i massase is to be tiled in case folder.

CASE HISTORY NO. AND DESIGNATOR: (IF APPLICABLE)

No DoD objection to public disclosure

pursuant to P.L. 102-526, excopHetT

AUP 940112

6(3)

HN 94214.

DocId:32202557 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TOR

IU LAL USE OVIE

Subj: (SWAID, Lee Harvey (DECEASED)

NCISC-23/crs

ONI-2852-7 (b)

1.

This investigation was predicated upon the reguest of the Judge Advocate

General of 30 April 1964 with Commandant of the Marine Corps First Badorsement

of 7 May 19640

2.

Enclosure (1) to reference (a) reflects that two former marines, Richard CALL

and Donald CARNARATA, provided information to the Warren Comnission tending to

suggest that Subject may have been implicated in the death of Private Martin

D. SCHRAND, 1639694, USMC, on 5 January 1958 at Cubl Point in the Republle of

the Phillipines. As a result thersof the Carmission requested the assistance

of the Department of the Navy in locating and interviewing CALL and CARNARATA.

of the savy

The Commission further requested that LCD? Clark B. WALBRIDGE, USN-RET, former

Security Officer of NAS, Cubi Point, R.P., be interviewed concerning his

kaowledge of SCHPAND's death in light of the above information and that a

series of tests be conducted on a Winchester Model 12 Riot Type shotgun, the

sane model in SCHRAND's possession at the tine of his death, in an attempt to

determine if it is possible to discharge the weapon by a jar or drop on the:

receiver section with the safety in an "off safe" position.

On 15 May 1964, Mr. John ELY, Attorney, Warren Commission, VEW Building,

Washington, D.C., was interviewed to obtain complete identifying data concerning

CALL and CARNARATA, supra. At that time Mr. Bly advised that it was no longer

necessary for either man to be interviewed and that he would initiate

correspondence cancelling that portion of the Commission's request for

investigative assistance. He explained that he had personally spoken with

both CALL and CAMARAIA and that neither could provide any Information pertinent

to the Commission's inquiry.

data fron the Cormission's files:

Richard Dennis CALL

Res:

R. D•#2, Hellertown, Pennsylvania

Mil. Ser:

U.S.M.C., September 1956 to December 1959

Ser. No: 1592849

Donald Peter CAMARATA

Res:

601 Burlingane Avenue, Capitola, California

M1l. Ser:

U.S.M.C. Discharged September 1959

Ser. No: Unknown

1222

4. Subsequently on 18 May 1964, Mc. Ely telephonically confirmed the fact that

CALL and CAMARATA need not be interviewed and advised that Mr. J. Lee RANKIN;

Counsel for the Commission would so advise Capt. Mack K. GREBNBERG of the

No Dob pojection to public disclosure

Paleuant to P.L. 102-526, exceptior 6(3)

COS PA40112 "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

(2)

FOR CEDICIAL USE ONLY

HH 54214 DocId: 32202557 Page 5

---

