# docid-32294436

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10213-10212

RECORD_SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

9-42758-33, 34, 35

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/04/1965

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, ASSOC, ACA, TELCAL, FOOSANER, AARON, OPINION, THREATS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

01/07/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 A/T

HH 53932 DocId: 32294436

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

1/4/65

(Type in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (9-42758)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (9-1706) (P)

ORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA, Aka; ET AL;

JULIO CESAR IGLESIAS; ET AL - VICTIMS

EXTORTION

00: MIAMI

DECLASSSFIED BY PO MAC/GAL

ON 3.134/94...

...OFK).

Remy weekly airtel 12/28/64.

On 12/29/64, SA HENRY GARCIA, through the

cooperation of a PCI, listened to a telephone conversation

between the PCI and JOSE RICARDO GARCIGA, 1575 NW 2nd

telephone 371-5601.

SA GARCIA feels positive that

GARCIGA's voice is identical to the voice of the anonymous

caller who telephoned ALBERTO VADIA on the morning of

and again telephoned SA GARCIA, registered as

S1/101E COLLAZO, at the Dupont Plaza Hotel on the night

01 11/18/64, with instructions concerning a pay-off.

On 1/2/65, Mr. ALBERTO VADIA, victim, and his

Office Manager, ANIBAL VALDES, through the cooperation of

a personal friend of VADIA, JULIO INSANTA, listened to

tisperation of

the voice of GARCIGA, who was telephoned by INSANTA under

an appropriate pretext. VADIA said that he thought the

voice could be the same voice, but was not positive, as

the anonymous caller who contacted him at the Dupont

Plaza Office Building seemed to be attempting to disguise

his voice, and had a slightly deeper tone.

Bureau (RM)

_ Miami

REC- 57

9-42758-33

GED: plm

le aT wicke)

3 JAN 6 1965

158 1108

1965

Approved:

Specia

Agent in Charge

NW 53932 DooId: 32294436 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 9-1706

On 1/4/65, MM 635-S advised he was informed on

an acquaintance

CONTEMPLATED INVESTIGATION

Will make arrangements, if possible, to have

victims IGLESIAS, BENGOCHEA, and MENDOZA, and

MrS. MENDOZA,

BENGOCHEA, JR., and other possible witnesses listen to

the voice

Of JOSE RICARDO GARCIGA. Also, will make

arrangements for them to listen to a duplicate copy of

the tape recording made by IGLESIAS of the anonymous

call received by him on 1/3/65.

Through the cooperation of victims in this

case, will attempt to entice the extortioner into placing

a telephone call to one of the victims at a specific hour

and day.

In anticipation of this call, Miami will

place appropriate discreet physical surveillances on

GARCIGA and other logical suspects, in an attempt to catch

the act of placing such a telephone call to the

victim.

Will continue efforts to bring this case to

another'pay-off" in order to obtain direct evidence

in support of circumstantial evidence already obtained.

Will maintain close liaison with the PDs in

Miami Beach, Coral Gables and Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

3.

รท13

519107

53932

DooId: 32294436 Page 3

---

