# docid-32338231

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90141-10027

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-92413-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/25/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

QUINTIN PINO MACHADO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

NN 45847

DocId: 32338231 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

AIRTEE

CLASSIFIED BY

11/25/60

3-6-97

5668510/KSR

25X

(JFK).

7

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, WEO (105-36444)

FELIPE MARTINEZ RIVERO

IS - CUBA

(00: WFO)

SP8 MACINSA

6-13/94 (FIV

Classified by SV6 BA/GCL

Declassity on: OADR /0085

05 RMB /KSK

5-23.94

RoWFOairtel, with enclosuros, 11/22/60.

On 11/24/60, WF 1133-50 advised that subject contacted

Dr. ARMANDO FLOREZ, Cuban Charge d' Affaires ad interim,

Baltimore, laryland, to advise that he had agreed to meet and

talk with

Ambassador QUINTIN PINO ACHADO and DIAS CID, Cuban

Attache, at 5:30 p.w., oa 11/24/60,

In Baltimore.

arrival

at the appointed place,

the office

of the physician brother of

his fiancoe (DIANA LUZ BERRIOS) , MARTINEZ found a note left

by PINO indicating

that the latter and DIMAS CID had been there

but had

departed since subject had failed to make an appearance.

MACHADO indicated to

FLOREZ that he was very interested in

speaking with these

"two comrades" and asked FloRE to tell

them to call him on the night of 11/24/60 or on 11/25/60, at the

telephone numbex AT 8-3135 in Baltimore.

In discussion with

i the arter go hated ne callect that on body erade

Bureau

2= Baltimore (Info) (RM)

(2- 105-4784)

1- Miami (Info) (RH)

1- New York (Info) (RM)

1- HEO

SIGUR RHERE SHOWG.

OFFERWiSE

GCC: sab/dab

(8)

ALL BEERSATIN

PA THS

PAGE 15 GLASSIF

S

HEREISE

AIRTEL

1105-92413

NOT RECORDED

180 BEG_Đ.1960

SECRETI

HW

45847 DocId: 32338231 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"SECRET

TRO 105-36444

of the

subject

fumiched

the revolution.

According to tho Lafozuant,

the above information from tho subject to

Commander JOSE MOLION caRAkRa, Cuban Multary and 44т «cracao,

and notifiod WOLsch of the tolephone number in Barcinore,

where WANTINg could be located.

On 11/29/60,l

we 1136-Se advised that the subjoct vas

physically present

the prenisen occupied by tho Cuban

• Babass

. Washingtoa, D.

The above laformant advisod turther

that reservations were made for the subject and JOB MOLEON

to leave Washington Intionni Alzport at 12:20 P.t., on 11/25/60, for

New 3025, N9w 1013.

That flight une due to arsive

1:40 D.N.

ano Safernant

advised

Luather that roservatlons

vore nade for the above

individuals to leave New Tosh, for

Havans, Cuba,

on Cubans

. Airlinod flight Leavins

: Idkovi26

Airport at 3:30 p.M.; on 12/25/00.

on 12/25/60,

(PST; thoso identity munt be protected nad who should be

charactoriaed as having turalched zollable

tho past) telephonically advised SA CERARD G. CARROL that

subjeet was predeat at the Babacoy of Caba during the morning

of 11/25/60, 1a the olfice of FLORSZ. He wan viested ans

presumably

questioned in this o221co

* by FLORER,

BOLEON, CID,

PINO and an unidentified friend of PINO,

According to PSI,

MARTINEE wE stall in the offlee of FLOREa at 12:30 D.Ce, On

11/25/60.

PSZ advised that MOXBOW left the nooting with

MARTINEZ during nid norning and reportedly une leaving

immodiatoly for Havana,

Cuba.

PS stated that DIARA LUZ BEARIOS,

subjeet's girl

tziend, telephonically contacted MARTIN& at the Cuban Embassy

the carly norning of 12/25/60, and leter personally

visited the Cuban Embassy at approzinately 11:00 or 18:30 4.12.

According to the above

desoribed pal, a tape

recorder was brought into florEz's room during

the interrogation

of the subject and PLOPEZ had called CLADYS

Socretary

in the 01iicc of the Cuban Willtary and Air Attache, to asoist

him in the mechanient operation of this machine.

(5) [or 1133-S /subsoquently loarned on 11/25/60, that

PINO LaCHADO, previcusly mentsoned,

In reporting to Ambassador

CARLOS LECHUCA

tho rosults of negotiations at the Embassy ot

Cuba with MARZINSA

during the morning of 31/35/60, statod that

A NAMATH O

PRET I BLASSSHIED

WESS MESALE ONES

SECRET

• 2 =

OTHER 4

HW

45847

DocId: 32338231

Page

3

---

