# docid-32297556

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10219-10332

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-1275

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/20/1964

9

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

1B; 4

Redact

04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297556

Page 1

203

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: b1'-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev.

4-2-63)

MTIONAL FOKM NO. 1U

3010-106

WAY 1962 :DITION

rigins

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

(Bufile 92-2717

JUNE

DATE:

August 20, 1964

FRON

1 all

• SAC, Miami (92-139 Sub II)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TEGHNICAL-OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title ANGELO BRUNO, aka

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Miami

Symbol Number

MM 837_C*

ASONE. INFT.

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Winter residence of CHARLES I. COSTELLO, 12468 North Bayshore

Drive, North Miami, Florida

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Technical Plant - Miami Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial Authorization - 7/27/62

Initial Installation - 8/31/62

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

None in Miami area

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

EX-114

REG 50

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

999-2917-1275

c.

Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Bureau

Miami

1lcor.copy

made in Youshes

• AUG 2A 1964

SED 901583611

DocId: 32297556 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act. of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One 404B MATE in Florida room

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NA

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

(See attached pages)

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

NO

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None, monitored at Miami Central

Technical Plant

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Four

-2 =

3

DocId: 32297556 Page 3

---

