# docid-32424929

## Page 1

Date

Page :

08/28/98

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: JCS

RECORD NUMBER

: 202-10001-10198

RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : DOC 199

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

19-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE

: OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE

: 10/26/62

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS: MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE:: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION

: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1C

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Reviewed by JCS, OSD, State, CIA.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214

DooId:32424929 Page 1

---

## Page 2

pupe

Ar. Gllpatric

-SENSITIVE

OPERATION MONGOOSE

Maia Pointe to Coasidex

26 October 1962

Wast lo the Palley Oblecttro?

asedly what ve boge lo fot irem Mongoose new.

•ve neod ider forue ralna

hor boet to empley these enlque 0.8. rosee

Sapoy

eastate

Ramo1s

miscilas

le the end objoctire the removel el the Cartro/Commadat

rogime or ta briag ls ta lta kores? Should Mongoore help ganerat

a popalar revalt with the probable nood for evert U.8. milltary belp

ae the rogtme moves la to erueh 11? O7, la the alna that of masdrassa

harasamest, to maka Caba & mazimem burdes loz the Blos?

covarde Tatondtadye Cost foota la te repla a. Copati to mn

Cubans ia estle and inslde Cabe, wha aro tbe maia covurt Rasete el

CT1, som expoet this palley goal se the peice el riaklng deis lives.

Mon roose Aetions

L/ottema (3→))

Harasament of and reslstance to Cuban regloe.

to dste

Stataas 3 teame (2- to 3-men) es route by caall crafe

y. Lé teame by sabmarine, etarting tomorrow._ One

3ssentu

more team beiag readied to go la by emall erafr. Uo mere

- 12 stllacteve

teame boiag readied to go by eubmarine shortly! Ose team

[A.

now in Oriente and one team ia Pinar del Rio. All beamas

- 3teeme nolles-e

baro W/T, arme, exploeives.

- Itum

Penas

b.

Cabas-owsed ebtpplns (22 ahipe). Siak la Cuban or Blos

Ql1

dello

ports, or kinh eeas. fabotago cargoes. Male crews iseperativo.

healinied

ap 200 Cuka

fatuss CLA has Il assets aboaré Cabaa-ovnad ships.

0S

10%

NO OBJECTON

Celoslerdara have gone to Hamburg, for sctlos. Other

25V0N9x

HIA HA S NO OBJECTION TÔ

actien panding.

ECLI

SSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Propegasda dellvezed to Cuba by balloon frora ahip.

Sm 6/23/98

де

Statan: CIA does sot have capabllity yot.

SENSITIVE

Doc#199

$ 775 +5.5/043PP

IT7 54214

Tolla9542529

Patre

2

BXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING: DOD DIR 5200.10

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRE

SENSITIVE

pupe

Ar. Gillpatric

file

an

38-

OPERATION MONGOOSE

Main Fointe to Consider

26 October 1962

Mot lo the Palley Obletiro? We road a sharp locus on

netly what te bogo to get trem Mongoose now. Thie will determi

50e/0f

stater:

Le the end objectre the removal al the Cartro/Commandar

rogime or lo bring 11 ta lte lanes? Shorld Mongoose help gonerato

Ramora

missiles

harassment, to mula Cuba s madma barden lor the Blas?

Understadly, most prople la the world new expect us to men

bowerde remeving the Castro/Commelot regime, Certably the

Cubens in exile and laelde Cada, who aso the meta covert sacera el

(Th, son export this palley goal us the price al rating their Itves.

2. Mongoose hettons

Harassment of and reaistance to Cuban regime.

/ottara (3-7)

to dete

Status: 3 teame (3-to 5-mas) en route by mall erall

. One

30sent in

more tate being readied to go in by small craft.

- 12 still active

One tear

now in Oriente and one tear in Pinar del Rio. All teams

- 3teamas rolled of

baro W/T. asIas, explosives.

- Item in funer B.

Cubas-owsed eatpping (22 ahipe). Sink la Cabar or Blos

della,

ports.

• bird seas. Labotago cargoes. Make crows taoperative.

healine

up 2r0 Cute

atur ChA has ll assete sboard Caban-erned shipe.

0S

" NO OBJECTOR

edesterdars have gone to Harabury, lor action. Other

25VON9X

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

actios pandia.

ASSIFICATION ANDION

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Propaganda deliverad to Cuba by balloon from ahip.

Shr6/23/98

[A]

0

K=

ci C

detrea

-SENSITIVE

Statas: CIA does sot have capability yes.

Doc#199

+7751551043PP

Page

• 3

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING: DOD DIR 5200.10

---

