# docid-32157817

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10126-10004

RECORD. _SERIES:

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

44-563-57

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45656 Date:

11-16-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES:

932

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-634

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

01/27/1999

STATUS

Redact

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

JFK Law 11(a)

COMMENTS:

HH 45656

DocId: 32157817

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following criminal informants affiliated or

familiar with gambling matters, Albuguerque Division, were con-

tacted on November 25, 1963, with negative results:

AQ 175-C; Albuquerque, N.M.i by SA J JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ 133-C, Albuquerque, N.M.. bY SA J, JEROME MAXWELL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, N.M., by

J: JEROME MAXWeLL.

AQ 128-C; Albuquerque;

N.M., bY SA CARY CARLTON.

AQ 141-C, Albuquerque,

N.M., bY SA STUART J, CAMERON.

AQ 181-C. Albuguerque, N.M.• bY SA STUART I. CAMERON.

PCI B. HOWARD THORNE, ROSwell, N.M.. by SA WILLIAM I.

EDDY:

PCI EDMOND ZUFFEREY, ROSWell, N.M., by SA WILLIAM I.

EDDY.

AQ 178-C, Grants, N.M.. by SA CALVIN D. KNOTT:

PCs Es I KEITR; ClOVIS, N.H, bY SA FRANK W. MAINES

FCT

KIT PETTIGNIA, CLOVIS: N.M., by SA FRANK W. HAINES.

On November 25, 1963, AQ 204-C advised SAW. J.

WILKINSON, OR Farmington, HM, that she once met JACK RUBY

in an unknown hotel ta Dottes:

texas, many years ado

the

informant was unable to recall the hotel or other people during

this contact.. Informant has rever met victim.

Cover-Page

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 2

---

## Page 3

On 11/25/63, AQ 195-BC advised SA STUART J. CAMERON

at Albuguerque, N.M, that approximately eleven months ago

he met JACK RUBY at the Carousel Club in Dallas,.

Informant met RUBY through JACk HARDES, JRy and when the

informant mentioned that he was from Albuquerque, RUBY advised

that LOU LEBBY at Albuquerque was a good friend.

The informant

learned through HARDEE that RUBY came to Dallas, Texas.

from

Chicago and that a "Jewish boy" had the particular section of

caRouse dead locate me senag into the

area, but that he is now quite well off along with the

"Jewish

boy," who also has a joint located one block from the Carousel

in an upstairs Location,

HARDEE mentioned to Ad 195-PC that RUBY had a "good

in" with the Dallas police nept.

The informant states this

would be borne out frow hie observation by the fact that RUBY

had a B-girl operation where dricks were pushed heavily and

they had no interference from the police department.

The

iriformant knew of no spacifie connections with the police

department and only pessonally engaged Rubs in conversation

for Five to sen minuses:

Indornant stated he is noe avate of

any Chicago underworld connections of RUBY or any subversive

or extremist connections.

He see not know of any relationship

between the subject and

the 1313

May for Cuba Committee or

any association between OSkArD and

RUBY.

-E-

cover Page

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG

44-new

DE 44-1639

ADMINISTRATIVE

Files of the chicago office refleet the following:

"Chicago Dally Tribune" of December 9, 1939, carried

an

article stating

that JOHN MARTIN, President of

the Scrap Iron and

Junk Handlers Union Local 20467 AFL, had

Shot LEON R. COOKE, the

attorney

for the above union.

According to former Coo-C, who

was interviewed at that time,

the informant was then in the process

of forming

Ive union and lated with the C10 and had written

several letters

to Junk dealers in this vegard which he had sired

"Cools"

MARTIN leamed of these lettera,

assumed he was being

double crossed by LEON COOKE, and

curing an argunent between MARTIN

and CoOKE which

ensued, MARTIN shot LEON COOKE.

MARTIN then be-

came a fugitive justice.

cover Page

HH 45656 DooId:32157817 Page 4

---

## Page 5

44-1639

Chicago 6670-PD advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT on November 24,

1963 that he had been a close

triend of

subject RUBY for many years

In Chicago®

This informant advised that "SPARkY" was hot tempered

on occasions, but was generally of a good disposition He stated

that RUBY was an excellent fist fighter.

According

to this intornant

RUBY, in the mid nineteen forty's, operated & "book" over a restaurant

located east of Keazie Avenue on the north side or Roosevelt Road 1n

Chicago.

subjeet was

a close friend of one ABE. ZUCKERMAN, also known

as "ZUCKIE" (phonetio).

..1:

In the middle nineteen forty's,

according to the inrormant, ZUCKERMAN was shot and the laformant

belleved. that this occurred

because ZUCKERMAN did not eut LEONARD

PARTICK, one of chicago's top hoodlums,

in on the profits of his book.

Shortly after this shooting, PATRICK told the subject to leave town,

accusing him of operating a book without PATRICK's sanction.

PATRICK

warned

the subject that If he did not leave chicago, he would "get

what Luckte got". The subject left Chicago at this time for Dallas,

Texas, where he ran a club omed by his sister.

Informant advised

that he has not been In touch with the subjeet

In recent years and

was completely at a loss to understand the

subject's action 1n shoot-

133g OSWALD.

ECI FRANK DI LEONARDO ANTIES SA JOHN W. ROERIS, JR 69

November 24, 1963, that JACK RUBY had, at one time, been close

ROSS PRIO, Chieago top hoodlun.

This Informant further advised that

RUBY had been a close friend of one. JOE SCARAMUZZO who owns a gua

shop on Halsted

Street near Taylor street In Chicago.

The Chicago Division records contain no information con-

cerning ABE ZUCKERMAN, also known a8

"ZUCKTE"

The same records

reflect that JOSEPH SCARAMUZZO Is the owner of Scaramuzzo and Sons

Gunshop, 831 South Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois. It should be

noted that three of the four guns

used by menbers of the Nationalist

Party of Puerto Rico in the shooting at the House of Representatives,

Washington, D. C.. on March 1, 1954, were purchased by one WILLIAM

GAIETTY, Gary, Indiana, from Scaramuzzo and Sons, 801 South Halsted

Street:

Chicago

RUBENSTEIN. The informant advised that HARRY RUBENSTEIN had owned

the Hotel Olympic on North Clark Street on Chicago's near North side,

approximately fifteen years ago.

HARRY RUBENSTEIN killed a man in

this hotel, but by a payment of $25, 000.00 to a Chicago Police Captain.

was able to Its this charge. Accoring to this intormant. HARRY

RUBENSTEIN had good connections with certain unknow criminals in the

Chicago area but was not considered by the Informant to be a member

of the Organized Criminal Element In this olty.

It should be noted that the records of the Chicago Police

Department reflect one HARRY RUBENSTEIN, 'a hotel owner on the near

North side, as having been sentenced to one year probation on a charge

of manslaughter in 1946.

-G-

cover Page

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 6690-PC advised SA JOSEPH G.

SHEA On November 24, 1963,

that the subject was related to HARRY RUBENSIEIN who formerly operated

two or theee bars In the Chicago loop area.

According to the informant,

the subject worked as a bartender for HARRY RUBENSTEIN in a bar at the

Banker's Building in Chicago-X 100p.

The informant advised that in

1942 or 1943, JACK RUBENSTEIN attempted to enlist in the United States

Navy but was rejected when he failed to pass the physical examination.

The informant described JACK RUBENSTEIN as extremely patriotle but

moody.

This informant was unable to furnish

aoy Information concerning

HARRY RUBENSTEIN's present whereabouts or actiulties.

BERNARD GLICKMAN (Protect Identity) advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT

on November 24, 1963, that he does not know the subject.

GI ICKMAN

advised that he had

contacted a person known to him, whose identity he

would not reveal, who recalled the subject as a friend many years ago

in the area around Independence Boulevard and

Roosevelt Road In Chicago.

According to ALICKMAN, this source stated that the subject was not

connected with the criminal element, chicago.

This source indicated

that RUBENSTEIN was good natured but on occasion was extremely hot

tempered. According to this source, the

subject had left Chicago In

the late 1940's for Dalias, Texas, where

he operated

a club belonging

to his sister.

GLICKMAN advised that he had made an unsuccessful

attempt to contact ANTHONY ACCARDO In an effort to obtain Information

concerning the subject.

It should be noted that ANTHONY ACCARDO is a high ranking:

member of Chicago's criminal element.

BERNARD GLICKMAN 18 known to

be a close associate of many of Chicago's top echelon criminals and

hàg In recent years, been active In the management of several ranking

prize fighters.

All other chicago Intormants negative and Chicago files

reflect no inforation pertaining to

subject's involvement with Chicago

criminal element.

-H-

cover Page

HH 45656 DocId:32157817 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 44-645

DL 44-1639

WER: eab:

CG 6498-PC was contacted by SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, on

11/25/63, but at that time had no personal knowleäge of RUBY.

11/26/63, CG 6498-PC advised that he had solicited information from

politicians of the 24th Ward, the former voting residence of RUBY.

PC advised that he talked to two persons who appeared to know RUBY

from many years ago.

They advised that RUBY was never anything but

"a punk" and never had any hoodlum connections or associations.

person advised that he recalls that RUBY attempted to sneak into a

prize fight in Chicago, believed to be the second DEMPSEY - TUNNEY

fight, and was caught by a police officer who beat him over the head

with his night stick. As a result of this beating, RUBY now has a

plate in his head.

Apparently this causes pressure when RUBY becomes

excited and causes RUBY to act emotionally:

•I-

cover Page

NH 45656

DooId: 32157817

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DL 44-1639/cv

ADMINISTRATIVE

DN 249-C frequented Clover Bar rext door to Sherman Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois, 1946 to 1949.

He described this bar as a hangout

for the hoodlum element. At that time it was operated by IRA COLITZ

who was described as a personal friend of Colonel JACOB ARVEY, a well

known Chicago political figure. COLITZ possibly was recently a

candidate for Aldermen in Chicago and resides in penthouse apartment

on Michigan Boulevard.

The informant related JACK RUBY, whom he identified from

newspaper photographs, frequented the Clover Bar in about 1946 or

1947 and was an acquaintance of IRA COLITZ and possibly was a former

school mate of COLITZ on the west side of Chicago. He does not know

the nature of RUBY's activities in Chicago.

The informant steted that in about December; 1949, he was

in Dalas, Texas, at which time RUBY was operating a night club,

name unknown, with western band and western motif. The informant

visited this club and chatted briefly with RUBY who requested that

he convey RUBY's regards to COLITZ when the informant returned to

Chicago.

The informant has not seen or heard from RUBY since 1949

and has never had any specific information concerning RUBY's back-

ground or activities but has never had any reason to suspect him

of being involved in subversive activities.

sales is

=J.

Cauer Pange

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 8

---

## Page 9

DN 44-387

DI. 44-1639

ADMINISTRATIVE

DN 295-C, who furnished sellable Information in the past.

furnished the following November 25, 1963:

extent of association unknown.

DN 200-S and DN 215-S

who are cogni

zant of Communist Party, Soclalist Workers Party, Freedom for Cuba

Committee, and related

organizations, advised on November 25, 1963,

thạt they

do not know JACK LEON RUBY or JACK RUBENSTEIN,

These

sources have furnished reliable

information in the past.

All other

logical informants and

PCI's Denver Division unable

to furnish any

positive information re JACK RUBY®

Lovers

вде

HH 45656 DocId: 32157817 Page 9

---

## Page 10

HO 44-939

DI 44-1639

LAB: eah

Houston 1125-C advised SA LEVERETTE A. BAKER

on 11/25/63, he met JACK RUBY

a number of years ago

through ABE WEINSTEIN (PH), owner of Colony Club,

Dazlas,

Texas, but knows nothing further concerning RUBY.

Cover.

Роде

1.711

NW 45656 DocId: 32157817

Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 44-895

FHT : JME

Gambling Informants

Los Angeles Office

PCI NORMAN SIMON, on 11/25/63, could provide no

personal information about

JACK: LEON RUBY,

aka, but he did

make available for interview by

SA FRANK H. TOWNSEND one

by FD 302 and by teletype containing lead for Chicago.

Other informants who could provide no information

are:

IA 3445-C on 11/26/63, to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

LA 3948:0 on 11/25/63, to SA FRANK H. TOWNSEND.

LA 4400-PC on 11/26/63: to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

LA 4410-C-TE On 11/25/63 to SA GEORGE E. BLAND.

LA 4448-PC on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

PCI JACK IRVING FOX on 11/25/63 to SA AMEDEE O.

RICHARDS, JR.

PCI SAM FARKAS on 11/26/63 to SA WILLIAM J. NOLAN.

PCI COSSLETT PALMER On 11/26/63 to SA TOWNSEND.

The following informants were contacted by SA

HOMER E. YOUNG on 11/26/63 with negative results:

LA 3596-C

PCI

LA 4218-0

LA 4221-C.

JEK Act 6 (4)

couer lage

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 44-895

FHT: JME

PCI GEORGE COSTELLO

JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI

PCI RAY SOUTHCOTT

LA 4135-C advised that she had been contacted by letter

from Dallas, Texas, by EARL NORMAN and his wife, CLAIRE BARTLETT,

who wanted informant to handle their bookings on the west Coast.

Informant advised that BARTLETT 1s a vocalist and understood she

had been working for JACK LEON RUBY in one of his night clubs in.

Dallas.

Informant stated that she is aware that EARL NORMAN left

Dallas on 11/21/63 for a booking into The Largo, a night club

located on the Sunset Strip In Hollywood.

Informant stated. she

would imagine that NORMAN's wife accompanied him. Informant said

she did not book this team since she did not have an opportunity

to audition them.

LA 4135-0 advised that the only bookings she handles

in the Dallas areafor strip tease dancers is through ABE WEINSTOCK

and his brother for their two places and has never had any business

dealings with RUBY nor has she ever met him.

-0.-

Cover Page

HH 45656 DocId: 32157817

Page 12

---

## Page 13

NO 44-2064/lav

INFORMANTS

NO 1238-PC who is a known associate of JOSEPH and

CARLOS MARCELLO, as well as JOSEPH PORETTO and who has been

a manager of the Town and Country Restaurant up until October

of 1963, advised SA REED W. JENSEN on November 27, 1963, that

he had never heard of a JACK LEON RUBY Or a LEE HARVEY OSWALD

prior to their notariety in the connection with the assassina-

tion of President JOHN F. KENNEDY. The PC stated on examining

a photograph of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, NOPD number 112723, that he

had never seen this individual in

he could not recall anyone who may have freguented the Town

and Country Motel who resembled this individual" enough to

cause anyone to

think this person might be OSWALD.

COVER PAGE

HH 45656

DooId: 32157817

Page 13

---

## Page 14

NO (44-2064) / sw

3

INFORMANTS CONTINUED

had never heard of him prior to November 24, 1963

On November 25, 1963,

SA JOHN V. HANLON contacted

NO 1233 C,

a tavern operator in Monroe,

Louisia na, who

advised he did not know RUBY and had never heard of him

before November 24,

1963.

On November 25, 1963 SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT contacted

PCI HARVEY MILLER, Sulphur, Louisiana, who frequents gambling

establishments. MILLER had never heard of RUDY prior to November

24, 1963.

JEK Act 6 (4)

On November 25. 1963, SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

contacted Pols

a professional

gambler, willo

PONTIER. a bookmaker, THOMAS SKRNICH,

a gambling club operator,

employee of SKRNICH's, all of Lafayette,

Louisiana. These individuals advised they

had never heard

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when they observed him on

network television.

NO 1229 C, a professional bookmaker, Baton Rouge, Louisiana,

advised SA EARL R. PETERSEN on November 25, 1963, that he had

never heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when he had

seen the shooting of OSWALD by RUBY on television.

Subsequently

on this same date, this informant advised that he had contacted

bookmakers ANTHONY EUGENE NOLAN, TAFITA HANIE Of Baton Rouge,

and they had not known RUBY.

SA PETERSEN also contacted PCI

JOHN SERIO on November 25, 1963, SERIO being an employee of

FRANK LEO VUCCI, another Baton Rouge bookmaker. SERIO had not

heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963.

G. WALKER, bookmakers at the Candlelight Club in West Baton

Rouge Parish, Louisiana and these bookmakers had not heard

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963.

-AA-

COVER PAGE

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 14

---

## Page 15

DI 44-1639

- The following investigation by Tampa Office:

TP 94-C advised he located

address book dated from

1945-48, and noted name NATE GROSSMAN, 5046 N. Troy St., Chicago,

Ill. Source stated he is certain NATE GROSSMAN is identical

to TINY GROSSMAN mentioned previously.

Source now recalls meeting GROSSMAN in Chicago in

1948

3, or 1949, and GROSSMAN told him he had spent some time in

prison and in

Same conversation mentioned Flagstaff, Ariz.

Intormant has hazy, recollection that GROSSMAN arrested Flagstaff

for Illinois authorities and probably did time in Statesville

Prison, outside Chicago.

Source now recalls GROSSMAN tended bar and lived in

hotel above bar, located across the street from Croydan

Hotel. Croydan located near Black Orchid Lounge, Chicago.

Same source recalls RUBY at one time ran errands

for one RAY LEWIS, a furrier, State Lake Building, 190 North

State St., Chicago.

Lewis had a bookie operation on the side

and resided Maryland Hotel, Rush and Delaware Streets, Chicago.

Same source also recalls RUBY loitered about a barber

shop run by one AL INDES at the corner, or near the corner

of Clark Street, and Lake Street, Chicago.

-ÉE-

Cover Page

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 15

---

## Page 16

DI 44-1639

TP 94-C advised 11/25/63 he knew RUBY in Chicago by

reputation as ticket scalper along Rush street and RUBY would

do anything for a buck.

Source states RUBY not known to hang

around racketeers but recalls one TINY GROSSMAN, a cab driver

or bartender, Chicago, also a ticket scalper, was close friend oj

RUBY•

Souce's knowledge of RUBY dates from 1945 to 1948. Later,

source heard GROSSMAN did time at Flagstaff, Ariz, for ticket

scalping.. Source also recalls one time RUBY badly beaten trying

to crash

a fight program, Comiskey Park.

RUBY dropped out of

sight in Chicago, 1948, no one missing him.

TP 11-C advised three years ago AGVA : female entertainer

complained to AGVA it was rough working in clubs in Dallas.

- FF.

Cover Page

HH 45656 DooId:32157817 Page 16

---

## Page 17

DL 44-1639

The following informants who have access to gambling

information in the Dallas area were contacted by SAs ROBERT M.

BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE on the dates indicated:*

DL 170-C

PCI BILLY H. MARTIN

PCI|

PCI MIKE LESCHETSKO

PCI FRED MERRILL

DL 185-C-TE

PCI PHILLIP STEIN

November 25,

1963

November

24,

1963

November 26, 1963

November 25

1963

November 26,

1963

November

24,

25,

26,1963

November

November

25,

1963

DL 181-C-TE

25,

1963

November 25,

1963

None of the above informants had any information

that JACK RUBY, aka. was involved in any gambling activities

bookmaker or gambler, during the time he

has resided in Dallas area - approximately fifteen years. RUBY

was known to the above informants as the operator of the Carousel

Club or Vegas Club, in Dallas.

JFK Act 6 (4)

•55-

Cover Page

NW 45656 DooId: 32157817 Page 17

---

