# docid-32332531

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90102-10178

HQ

CR 105-93729-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MX

HQ

DATE: 03/12/1975

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332531

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nötey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1062 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.f

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SEBRLY

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-11347) (P)

DATE: 3/12/75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERGIN IS UNCLASSIFISO EXCSPT

WHENE SHOWN OTHERE!

SUBJECT:

JORGE ROBRENO MARIEGUES

IS - CUBA - PANAMA

Enclosed for the information of the Miami and New

York Offices are two copies each of Mexico City letter dated

1/30/75. M

OA

A1 103

3/22/71,

Re Mexico City letter dated 130/75,f LiM dated

and LHiM dated 10/22/68. sel

Referenced Mexico City letter sets forth information:.

indicating captioned subject was arrested at Panama City,

Panama, on 1/22/75.

At the time of his arrest subject had

in his possession a New York driver's license and various.

MiSC-Irerew at FBIHQ

charge account cards along with other documents which

indicated he had been residing in the United States.

The

driver's ligense carried by the subject was in the name of

ROBRENO, 491 West 22nd Street, New York, New York

Subject stated that FERNANDO was a brother who formerly

resided in New York but who now resides in Miami, Floric (S

exact address unknown but having telephone 305-552-0770.

+56/44B2/3/137

subject was a member of the July 26th terrorist movement in

Cuba and that after the takeover by FIDEL CASTRO subject was

named a cap tain in a Cuban rebel army.

Subject acted as a

presiding judge over numerous trials of "counterrevolutionaries

Ice's nade

per request #60is (36)

Referenced

Miami LHM of 3/22/71 indicates that

many of which resulted in execution of the defendants.

In October, 1961, subject shot a member of the U.S

Embassy in Havana, Cuba.

Subject was arrested but was later

released. Subject also reportedly shot a.U.S. Marine guard

in front

of the United States Embassy at Havana during

argument.

INSETTIC RECTOIN

an

Bureau (Enc.

sukes

105-93729-

125-9372

(1 - Foreign Li

son unit lod

(2 - Miami) (105-17423

(2 ~ New Vork

1-

121294

HAMMINY

" MAR 35 1975

AAC: s1s

Mexico Cityclassifies ty Sp8mACGRT

(8)

Declassity conse

OADR",

5010-108-02

on mexlet

1-30-75-

have previously, bees

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly of in Madel Savings Plan

E

DocId: 32332531

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coliection Aet of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 105-11347

Subject in the early 1960's departed Cuba for

Madrid, Spain.

It was never explained as to the manner

of which he was able to divorce himself from the Cuban

government and obtain permission to leave Cuba.

Subject's father in 1971 was employed by

lami Cuban exile newspaper owned and operated by one MAX

Cakes

LEADS

il17

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

(1) Will conduct appropriate investigation to

identify listing of telephone 305-552-0770. Will determine

if subject's

brother FERNANDO A. ROBRENO resides at this

address. (S)

(2)

Will conduct appropriate investigation to

ascertain whether or not subject has been known

to be residing

in the Miami, Florida area.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK:

Will conduct appropriate investigation at 491 West

22nd Street, an address listed by subject's brother FERNANDO

on a New York driver's license to determine if subject is

Known to have been residing in that area. (S)

MEXICO CITY

AT PANAMA CITY, PANAMA:

authorities with reference to the subject.

105-93729-13p.2

SEERZI

DocId: 32332531 Page 3

---

