# docid-32310151

## Page 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10302-10095

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-1ST NR 128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, DOMR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/29/1968

3

IID, TRA, MEETING, WESSIN, ELIAS WESSIN Y

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32310151

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

SAN 105-306

Continuing, DAVIDSON advised that he was in Miami

OD

2 18-58.

While there he decided to call subject and

announce that he, DAVIDSON, was in town to see what the

subject night

telephone

have to say.

An unknown person answered the

stated the subject was not present. When

DAVIDSON identified himself the unknown person recognized

the name

and stated the subject was "in Puerto Rico this

weekend" and suggested DAVIDSON call back early the next

week.

DAVIDSON advised that he tried to get the unknown

person to reveal where in Puerto Rico the subject was by

telling him that he,

DAVIDSON, was going to be in puerto

Rico and would look

the subject up there.

The unknown

person ignored the suggestion and in turn suggested DAVIDSON

0:11

back.

DAVIDSON Stated he made inquiry among some

Dominican contacts of his in Miami and called one or two

in Washington, D. Co,

but none could substantiate the

subject"s trip to Puerto Rico. DAVIDSON suggests that the

story of the trip to Puerto Rico could be a cover for the

subject's absence to another area.

He notes that there are

atill lot of Dominicans in Puerto Rico who know the

subject well and this sort of thing could not be kept quet

without extreme effort.

On 2-5-68, MI. JACKSON

WILSON, Embassy Political

officer, mentioned

during a conference with legat that Mr.

CEORGE E. BROWN, U. S. Depariment of State (USDS), Dominican

Affairs Desk, had

written a personal letter stating he

was

in favor of sending & USDS officer to have "informal

conversations" with the subject to "keep him out of the DE".

WILSON further advised that he suggested to Mr. BROWN that

caution be exercised inasmuch as subject was not necessarily

eager to accept advice of UsDs officials.

On 2-9-68, Don-gadvised rumor was circulating

among subject's critics in the DR to the effect subject

was traveling around in

a large 1968 automobile, not

which had been given to hin as a gift

avarted by

"Cuban friends" of the Presidential Palace.

It is noted that a number of Cuban businessmen and hangers-on

travel regularly between Miami and Santo Doningo bringing

with them the latest rumors manufactured in the U. S. by

the Cuban refugee group.

SECRET

- 2

DocId: 32310151 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

i her the.

SECRET

SAN 105-306

penna Tia!

No other Legat sources

report anyxinformation

regarding the subject's alleged trip to Puerto Rico.

Inasmuch as all logical leads have been covered in this

matter,

this investigation is being placed in an RuC

status.

-

3

-

SECRET

DocId: 32310151

Page 3

---

