# docid-32570532

## Page 1

D-36 (Pray: 12-1,3-56)

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# : NW

54464 Date:

10-11-2017

Transmit the following in

FBI

Date:

8/7/63

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

•RE :

DIRECTOR,

SAC,

MIAMI

(2-353) (F)

VICTOR DOMINADOS ESPINOSA

ET AL

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

pier

HERNANDEZ

ReBuairtel 8/2/63, and New Orleans tel 8/1/63.

Efforts to locate PCI MC LANEY in Miami negative.

His

phone has been temporarily disconnected, and his home

is, closed.

Let 10747

Review of 137-2226, file on MC LANEY, reflects his full

name as MICHAEL JULIUS|MC LANEY, his mother as Mrs. W. JMC LANEY

and one brother, BILL MC LANEY, who resided 2513 Banks St., New

Orleans L

La., as of 1942.

WILLIAM JULIUS ME LANEY, owner of

property on which dynamite located, apparently identical with

brother of PCI MICHAEL J. MC LANEY.

New Orleans reinterview WILLIAM J

LANEY to deter-'

mine extent of his participation in this matter,

noting he did

not appear completely truthful in his responses when contacted

prior to search. Subject VICTOR ESPINOSA well acquainted with

MICHAEL MC LANEY and possibly with WILLIAM J. MC LANEY, as well.

New Orleans also requested inquire of WILLIAM MC LANEY as to

present location of MICHAEL.

Photos of VICTOR ESPINOSA, CARLOS

HERNANDEZ, MIGUEL ALVAREZ and RENE ESPINOSA being forwarded as

enclosures to this airtel for possible identification by WILLIAM

MC LANEY.

MCT 16,

1821-36.

3 - Bureau (AM-RM)

2 - New Orleans (Encs-4) (AM-RM)

2 - Springfield (Enc-1) (AM-RM)

2 - Miami

WMD: ggr

(9)

REC-35

.92 AUG 9 ?963

Nich

A08 13 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Approved:

Special

I SPE MACIEAT (JK

BY SPOOJA/GEL 2.

1821

: NH 54464 DooId: 32570532

Page 1

---

