# docid-32308180

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10294-10038

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-1ST NR 33

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-22-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

10 :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/22/1959

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 LHM

N9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32308180

Page 1

---

## Page 2

APR 2?

1959

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-3657)

FROM: SAC, WFO (105-30037)

RAFAEL DEL PINO

IS - CUBA

(00: MM)

ReWFairtels and letterhead memos dated 4/15,

17/59, concerning information furnished by MM 639-S.

there

is attached hereto five copies for the Bureau,

four for Miami and two for New York of a letterhead memo

dated and captioned as above,

along with an equal number

of letterhead

memo of evaluation.

The information contained therein was furnished

to SA RICHARD B. KELLOGG by MM 639-S on 4/17, 18, 19, 20/59.

Portions of that information have already been furnished

interested offices and the Bureau by airtel.

Bureau (Encls. 10)

ENCLOSU - Miami (105-1738) (Encis. 8) (RM)

(1 -Anti-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES)

{1-134-MM 639-S-Sub A)

2 - New York (Encls. 4) (RM)

(1105-23441)

4 - WEO

(1-105-29955)

(1-105-26269)

(1105-20837)

RBK: SKR

(13)

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

DATE /1-8-94 BY SP 8: MAC/KS

(JFK)

ALL 00

AIRTEL

11-1453-

NOT RECORDED

183 APR 27 1959.

F468

67 APR APR 0 1959

NW 54027 DooId: 32308180 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WFO 105-30037

The informant was scheduled to depart WDC by

air at 11:30 p.m., 4-20-59, for Miami.

He returned to

Miami

at the request of DEL PINO and

said his only

immediate instructions from DEL PINO were to arrange for

about 20 minutes radio time in Miami. Informant said

DEL PINO has indicated he desires informant to continue

working for him.

Informant said he was told by DAVIDSON

that DEL PINO was flying to NYC from WDC sometime between

5:30 p.m., and 6:30 p.m., 4-20-59.

The informant was

unable to verify this as

he had not seen DEL PINO at

the time he was last contacted by WFO.

The informant said DAVIDSON advised him that he

could possibly throw some business to the informant's

aviation business indicating there would be no manifest

and it would be night flying but he understood that

informant was not afraid of such work. Informant said

DAVIDSON was not more specific, but he would immediately

report any additional contacts

by DAVIDSON.

Informant said DEL PINO wrote the letter to

FIDEL CASTRO in informant's hotel room and then asked

informant to deliver it to CASTRO's aide, Capt. LLANES

PELETIER (ph) at the Cuban Embassy•

Informant said he

questioned this action, but DEL PINO assured him they

would never do anything at the Embassy so he delivered the

letter.

He said he could not get ahold of PELETIER, but

was taken to PELETIER'S lieutenant (not further identified)

and ended up talking to four men who took him to a back

room and threatered him but took no action against him.

Informant said when he told DEL PINO of this DEL PINO

was surprised they had taken such action, but added thit

only went to prove what type of people they ee. The

member of CASTRO's party who was most angered at informant's

presence at the Embassy and who came out of the Embassy to

"get" informant after informant left there was identified

by a Department of State security man as Sgt. MANUEL ROJAS.

Informant was instructed to discuss this matter with his

contact at the Miami Office before he took any additional

step to contact any pro-CASTRO persons.

Informant said the information concerning the

expenditures of DEL PINO and DAVIDSON was learned by him

when DAVIDSON called HELEN (LNU), WDC, concerning an

-2.

NW 54027 DooId:32308180 Page 3

---

## Page 4

WFO. 105-30037

expense sheet for DEL PINO's visit in WDC. Informant

could not further identify HELEN and said he had met

no one by that name around DAVIDSON's office.

As a result of the disturbance caused by

informant's visit to the Embassy of Cuba on 4-19-59, the

MPD detail assigned to the CASTRO party picked up

DEL PINO and informant on 4-20-59, when they arrived

in the area of the National Press

BuIlding, We, where

CASTRO was to attend a luncheon.

DEL PINO

and informant

were merely

asked to remain in an MPD cruiser where they

could not be

seen by the CASTRO party and they did so

without hesitation or argument.

A review of the information furnished by

informant and the information relative to captioned

is to identify the New York telephone number called from

contacted. This matter is being given expeditious

attention and upon receipt of this

information, this

• matter will be RUC'd to Miami.

The

attached letterhead memo is classified

"confidential" since the information contained

therein

might tend to identify an informant of continuing value

and compromise the future effectiveness thereof:

- 3

-

NH 54027

DooId: 32308180

Page 4

---

