# docid-32286869

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10196-10145

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1015

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

SAC, CG

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/11/1963

1

SGL, TRA, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

, CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32286869 Page 1

68

---

## Page 2

6/11/63

Airtel

To: SAC, Chicago

From: Director, FBI

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ALL!

NEI

DATE 4(23184

MAILED 30

N 1 1 1963

3

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan .

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

'Gale

Rosen

'*Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Re New York airtel 6/10/63.

(4)

Chicago follow developments regarding Glancana's

reported travel

very closely and where appropriate set out

inmediate leads to provide appropriate coverage. In so doing,

appropriate caution should be given to other offices in order

to fully protect PCI

Jas the source of infor-

mation on Giancana.

Legat, Paris

is being alerted concerning Giancana's

reported intent to visit there and possibly contact Porfirio

Rubirosa. Any details concerning the date and method of travel

for this

proposedvisit should be immediately furnished to the

Bureau and appropriate offices in order that Legat, Paris and

mappropriate Customs officials may be alerted.

No record of 27 carat uncut stone valued at $200,000

to

$300,000 located in the National Stolen Property rile (U

If not already done, New York promptly advise appro...

priate Custons officials of information furnished relative to

Gennay's contact in Customs provided any indication of irregularity

onton or tears!

(V).

- New York

A REC 14 92

92=.

= 3777-1015

15 JUN 12 1963

NOTE: PCI

husband of Dorothy McGuire of the

singing sister team, has

furnished information_that cotop hoodlum

Sam Giancana proposes to visit Paris sometime in the near tuture,

possibly to contact Porfirio Rubirosa, Dominican Republic diplomat

-and international playboy concerning gambling in the Dominican

-Republic.

-JGL: asg

_(5)

4

JUN

80903

OTHER 4

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45792 DocId: 32286869

Page 2

---

