# docid-32294986

## Page 1

Doc ID: 6540211

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

12/21/20

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10262

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 55355 Date:

11-27-2017

Document Införmation

ORIGINATOR: NSA

FROM:

NSA

TO :

TITLE:

fRostrieted)

DATE:

PAGES:

12/11/1967

11

SUBJECTS :

NJC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

y9.1

74 55355

DocId: 32294986

Page

---

## Page 2

2X/0

R70-67(5)

(SLICU, URU EDUC, POPL, TRNG, AGRI, METE, ERTH, ENGR/ L, B,E, 0, I.

DIST:

HCO

0/54381-67

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

COMINT REPORT

(5) 2x/

R70-67

BUREAU SOURCE -

Cuba

Cuba

(64-330 - 210 - 5024](5)

NOT RECORDED

WARNING

FEB 28 1968

This Document Contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within

the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798, the transmission

or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This document is to be distributed to and read by only those

persons who are officially indoctrinated in accordance with com-

munications intelligence security regulations and who need the

information in order to perform their duties.

If such action might have the

effect of revealing the existence and nature of the source.

INDEXED

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODEWORD MATERIAL

INFO

3/2048

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLoude

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

HH 55355

DocId: 32294986

Page

2

---

## Page 3

ili,

(-SECRET LARUST

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

2X/0| 7R70-67 (SJ

(5] LICU, URU/EDUC, POPL, IRNG, AGRI, METE, ERTH, ENGR/I, B,E, B,E, I.

11 Dec 67

DIST:

HCO

((DETACHI PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET

0/54381-67

[5)(ICU, URU EDUG, FOPE, TRNG, AGRI, METE, ERTH, ENGR/I, B,E, 0, I.

11 Dec 67

CUBANS STUDYINC IN THE USSR

From 3 March to 6 August 1967 the following Cubans were

reported to be studying in the USSR under scholarships granted

by the Cuban government((A)).

The Infomation in this report is arranged as follows:

name; remarks; (message date).

ACOSTAVORENO, ROBERTO; The Foreign Ministry requested

inforsation abour ams scholarship holder who is studying in

Kiev.

His grandmother died In February and his fanily received

no answer to their cable.

The enbassy replied that he was

fine; (20 Apr 6%, 22 Apr 67, 24 Apr 67).

XACUTIAR, JUSTO; The embasry reported to the Ministry of

Education that this

scholarship holder would be traveling on

flight SU-047; (21 Apr 67).

ALMANZA, IRMA; The embasay reported to the Ministry of

Education that her scholarship had been canceled and that she

was leaving

on 4 May aboard flight 501 to retum to Havana

via Frague; ( May 67).

ALVAREZ

KAMACHO, HUMBERTO: MENENDEZ CORTINA, LUIS A.:

The

bassy reported to the Academy

Sciences in Havana that

these

scholarship holders

, requested an extension until

10 September. The answer should be sent to the presidium

of the USSR Academy of Sciences and plane passages should

be arranged; (6 Aug 67).

ALVAREZ DEXSOTERA, "; The embassy reported that this

scholarship holder fron

Public Health Ministry was working

very

hard and had written a letter to the Public Health Ministry

where be later planned to work; (19 Jun. 67).

• GROUP-1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

Page 1 of 10 Page(s)

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId:32291986 Page

3.

---

## Page 4

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

& SECRET LAROM

27/0/ 7R70-67 (5]

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SEGRET

0/54381-67

YANCEL ASTRADOR, MICUEL; The Foreign Ministry requested

that this

scholarship holder be

sent home permanently with

the vacationing students; (20 Jun 67).

ARANGULES, E

ERNESTO; The embassy inforned the Ministry

Education that this

scholarship holder was leaving Moscow

on 6 June aboard flight SU-047; (4 Jun 67).

ARTECHE, IVAN XARTECHE, NELSON: MORENO, CARBONELL, JUAN;

embassy reported that

the tirst four scholarshi, holders Eron the Polytechnic Institute

in Leningrad and the latter, from the Textile Institute in

Leningrad, were leaving Leningrad on 12 June on the ship

BIATKA; (8 Jun 67).

AVILA LOPEZ, LUPERCIO; SUAU, INES, VORTECA, O

XPAZKICLESIAS, TERESA BRAVO, !

HUMBERED; The embassy informed

the Ministry of Education that five scholarship holders (one

apprentice, one on vacation with her son, and three graduates

respectively) were leaving on 13 June aboard flight SU-407;

(13 Jun 67).

MALVO, MICUEL; Military scholarship holder at a military

school In Moscow,

, telephone Ni. 464500, extension 590 or number

в-20812.

Mailing address:

Post Office Böx 138; (7 Mar 67).

RIDEL; JAGUILAR, CARTDAD; The Foreign Ministry

of these two former

scholarship

holders be sent.

The luggage of CARBONEL should be sent to

La Victoria in Nueva: Gerona on the Isla de Pinos.

Ministry of Education was informed that he would be traveling

on a TU-114 flight on 27 April and that ARMANDOXGUERRA who

was ill, would travel on the same day aboard the Cubana flight;

(19 May 67, 27 Apr 67).

CHANG, NEISA; The Embassy informed the Ministry of

Education that this scholarship holder was leaving on 29 June

aboard SU-047 and told them to meet her at the airport with

a doctor and ambulance because she was 111; (29 Jun 67).

GROUP-1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

"(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

- 2=

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId: 32291986 Page #

---

## Page 5

C SECRET LAPUM

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

2X/0| 7R70-67<5]

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET

0/54381-67

XCLARO MADRUCA; RODOLFO;

was initored

SILVA NEED, ALFONSO; The embassy v

that these two theology scholars were to take

a special

three-year

course under Professor NIKONSKY.

They

did not know

Russian

and because they did know English they

would like

to take the course in English while studying

Russian at the

same time; (19 Jun 67).

CORDOVE, MARIANELA; The embassy informed the Ministry

of Education that this graduate left of 25 May aboard flight

SU-047; (26 May 67).

CORONA, ELVIA and so MACIAS, ARTUROYNORMAN, ALFREDO;

NAGA, HILARIO; The embassy

informed the Ministry of Education

that, these three scholarship holders and the latter who is in

the scholarship holder office of the embassy were traveling

on the TU flight on 4 July and that possibly four more would

also leave; (4 Jul 67).

Education

a 102, OA

OMAR: The embassy inforned the Ministry of

this scholarship holder was leaving on 8 June

aboard flight SU-047; (8 Jun 67).

YDEL/FARO, MARIANO, TAMET RADO; ENRIQUE: the embassy

e Mistry of Education

that these graduates were

leaving

on 24 June aboard flight SU-047; (24 Jun 67).

DIAZ, HECTORS/CAMPANIONI, PABLO, AGUILAR, JORGE,

ALEONARD,

JORCE: MATED? ARACELY: ALVAREZ,

PATRICIA; SARGIA,

ERNESTOS HERNANDEZ SCARY/LOPEZ,

Therembassy informed the Ministry of Education that these

scholarship holders left on 11 July aboard the TU tlight;

(12 Jul 67).

* ESTENOS

MARRERO JESUS

DIAZ, MARGARITA ALVAREZ, MARIA

CONCE POLON 3) FARINAS,

embassy informed

Ministry

of Education that one scholarship holder who was ill, and

three graduates respectively left on 18 May aboard the flight

SU-047. ALVAREZ took her son and FARINAS took her daughter;

(18 May 67) .

BERAZA, TUES FELIPE LOPEZ, LUPERCTO: The Foreign

Ministry asked the embassy

to Inform these ICAIC scholarship

holders that they could come to Cuba to serve their

apprenticeships; (14 Apr 67).

GROUP-1

SECREI

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

- 3-

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId: 32294986 Page

5

---

## Page 6

C SECRET LAREM

JEK ACt 6 (1) (B)

2X/0

R70-67 (5]

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT)!

SBERET

0/54381-67

XBERNANDEZ COFFIN, PEDRO; The Foreign Ministry Informed

Che

embassy that the

application for this apprentice was

rejected; (23 May 67).

CARCIA,

MARIA CARIDAD: MORALES.

CESAR, ALVARADO,

FRANCISCO;

The embassy inforned the Ministry of Education

that these graduates left on y March aboard TU-114 because

the acholarship was canceled; (8 Maz 67).

MARCIA/FICAL,

ARMANDO; A UJC Committee member in Moscow

informed LAZARO VORA, In Charge of Foreign Relations for UJC,

that this mechanical engineering student at the University

of Havana should cone at once to Moscow to see a specialist

about having another operation for buins he suffered in an

accident.

Money for his passage had been provided, but

funds were needed for his stay: (10 Apr 67).

HERNANDEZ, FRAN

embassy asked the

of Education to Infor MARIO FLEITES of the Energy

Department of the Cujae Electrical Engineering School that

because of curriculum problems, the student could specialize

it mechanics or in controls.

They asked to be informed of

the decision within 12 hours.

The embassy later stated that

because no answer was received the engineering apprentice

had been changed from electronic to mechanical engineering;

(17 May 67, 26 May 67).

XCERAICE

LASER ME

EMILIO A ;

RINEDA

informed the

Ministry of Education that these

no do; the embassy

graduates were-

leaving Moscow

on 6 June aboard flight SU-07

and asked that

their fanilies be notified at

phone number 94128; (4 Jun 67).

/CODINEZ, IBRAHIN; Student at the Pushkin Military Academy

Leringrad, Suite 757; (23 May 67).

for these Academy of Science students.

They left Moscow

on 11 May and left Prague for Cuba aboard the Cubana flight

of 12 May; (3 May 67, 9 May 67):

Y¿ONZALEZ HERNANDEZ, ROBERTO; The Foreign Ministry in-

formed the embassy that

this scholarship holder's parents had

received news that he was ill. Confirmation of his health was

- requested and also whether or not he could come to Cuba; (19 May 67).

SECRET

GROUP-1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId: 32294986 Page 6

---

## Page 7

ÜEK Act 6 (1) (B)

C SECRET LARYM

2X/0| 7R70-67(S)

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SEGRET

0/54381-67

XCONZALO, JOSE MAGUSTIN, MANUEL,/COBO, SERGIO; The Ministry

of Education was informed that these three raduates of the

Naval Academy in Odessa were

leaving on 3 August aboard the

TU flight; (2 Aug 67).

CLARO: The embassy informed the Ministry of

Education that this scholarship holder, who was ill, was

leaving on 7 June on flight SU-047; (6 Jum 67).

Moscow-Prague-Havana for GUMA and that the Academy of Science

had booked a passage for GONZALEZ for Moscow-Prague-Havana.

Later, the Foreign Ministry confirmed that the tickets: had

been purchased. LOPEZ would use the passage booked for

CONZALEZ from Prague to Havana; (17 Jun 67, 28 Jun 67).

LADRON DE

that

UEVARA, CARLOS; The Foreign Ministry asked

tne embassy

send the cer

certification and grades obtained

at the Kiev Preparatory by this former scholarship holder;

(29 May 67).

LARA, ESPERANZA; The embassy asked the Ministry of

Education to notify this scholarship holder's family in

Camaguey that she was well and would be leaving on 2 May

aboard the TU flight; (26 Apr 67, 29, Apr 67) .

LOPEZ CHEVARRIA, RAUL; The embassy

reported to the

Ministry of Education that this graduate left on 27 July

aboard the ship KRASNOGRAD from the port in Leningrad;

(30 Jul 67).

A XLOPEZXPEREDA, 305LA• 2

ALDIVAR MANUEL, DE. JESUS:

HERNANDEZ DE LOSUREYES: -OSVALDO; The Secretary General of

the DUC; RAFAEL VALVAREZ;

sent revolutionary greetings via

the embassy to these three scholarship holders of the

Central Planning Board (JUCEPLAN) in cormemoration of the

fourteenth anniversary of the workers attack

on the Moncada

barracks; (25 Jul 67).

_OPEZ/VALDES, RAFAEL :

scholarship holder in Moscow,

Telephone N7. 320011; (3 Mar 67).

GROUP-1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SBERET

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId:32294986 Page 7.

---

## Page 8

JEK ACt 6 (1) (B)

¿ SECRET LARYM

2X/0 R70-67<57

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCIRINATED RECIPIENT))

SBERBE

0/54381-67

MARIN, ¡JOSE BARREIRO, MANUEL; The embassy informed the

Ministry of Education that these graduates were leaving on

27 June aboard flight SU-047; (27 Jun 67).

MARTINEZ ASOLER, ERANCISCO: YARTINEZ SOLER, RUBEN;

LEOPOLDO QUESADA, SUAREZ, MANUEl; The embassy informed

the Ministry of Education that these scholarship holders would

leave 14 June from the port in Leningrad on the ship SAMI GADMI

for their vacations; (8:Jun 67).

the embassy that this

MARTINEZ VALDES ALINA; The Ministry of Education informed

scholarship holder should serve her

apprenticeship there and asked to be notified if she would

be finished before her vacation; (3 Jun 67).

PARTIN VERNANDEZ, IT,TRA: XPEREZ HE ROMO, MARCIA

PEREZ,

ARMANDO and his wife IRAXBIELOBARCDOVA; The embassy reported

to the Ministry of Education that the graduates MARTIN, PEREZ

and her son, and the wife of the other graduate were traveling

on 29 July aboard flight SU-047; (27 Jun 67).

MIERES, PAUL; The embassy reported to the Ministry of

Education that this Plejanov scholarship holder was leaving

for Cuba on the ship KRASNAYA PRESNYA from Odessa; (26 May 67) •

ORLANDO; The embassy informed the Ministry of

Education that this scholarship holder was not traveling to

Cuba by plane, but was leaving on the ship KRASNI AKTIABRIE

from Odessa on 28 April; (26 Apr 67).

MONTES, NORMA:X

RATISTA SILV JOSE LUIS; The embassy

informed the Ministry

of Education that these

scholarship

holders at the University of Lomonosov had

served their

apprenticeships and were leaving the New Rosik port aboard

the ship RABINSTOVA on 26 May for Cuba; (26 May 67)•

That the two engineering post graduates from the Cuban

Institute of Meteorology, who were to specialize in hydro-.

meteorology at the Academy of Sciences, and Dr. ALVAREZ, who

was to take a course in cosmetology for the Ministry of Public

Health, were leaving on 27 April aboard the Soviet ship

VIBROG; (28 Apr

67, 13 May 67).

SEGRET

GROUP -1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

-6-

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId: 32294986 Page 8.

---

## Page 9

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

C SECRET LAROM

2X/0/ JR70-67 [SJ

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET

0/54381-67

XORAMOS, IDELEONSO; The Cuban Institute of Art and

Cinematographic Industry (ICAIC) told the embassy that he

should not return now if he had an exam pending, but the

embassy

should notify ICAIC of his return date; (17 Jun 67).

PANTOJA, ELENA

TERRELONGE, SILVIA FERNANDEZ, LILIANA;

CASTILLA, MARICELA:

embassy informed

she Ministry of

Education that these

scholarship holders had finished their

course for instructors of translators and were leaving on

flight TU-114; (14 Apr 67) .

PARDILIO, NORMA; The embassy asked the Ministry of

Education to tell her family not to worry.

She was ill and

would leave for Cuba on 9 May aboard flight SU-047;

(5 May 67, 9 May 67).

CALIXTO;

PAZ and the embassy replied that she was fine and would

remain there until the end of May.

Later the embassy informed

the Ministry of Education that PAZ who graduated, MORALES,

a graduate, and SALAEAR, who was going on vacation to see

his sick wife, were leaving on flight SU-047; (4 May 67,:

5 May 67, 14 Jul 67).

XIGLESIAS, TERESA YVINA

QUINTANA, ANA; The embassy

informed

the Ministry that the graduate, PAZ ICLESIAS had

not been able to leave yet, but would leave with her son

on 22 June aboard flight SU-04%. The Ministry was asked to

notify her family at phone NI.

30-4395. The embassy also

reported that the ICAIC graduate VINA would be leawing on

same flight; (15 Jun 67, 22 Jun 67).

X PEREZ, AURELIO; The embassy informed the Ministry of

Education that this scholarship holder at the University

of Lomonosov who will finish his studies on 15 July requested

to serve his apprenticeship in Cuba.

He had been planning

on this since December. The Foreign Ministry replied that

they would try to carry out the plans although they could

not guarantee it, but they wanted a copy of the apprenticeship

program: (26 May 67, 3 Jun 67).

PEREZ, MARIO; The embassy informed the Ministry of Educa-

that this scholarship holder had left on 16 May aboard

the TU flight because of illness; (17 May 67).

GROUP-1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

"(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId:32294986 Page 9.

---

## Page 10

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

C SECRET LAROM

2X/0

1R70-67 LSJ

((DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET

0/54381-67

PONCE DE LEON ORIGA 10M

USSLE MEDARUO; The fOreign Ministry

asked the embassy

"for

address of this scholarship holder

because he had not written and his mother was worried;

(5 May 67).

RAMOS DEL SACO HIRAM: The

Embassy informed the Ministry

of Education that the Estonian wife of this scholarship holder

as the University

of Lomonosow had left for Cubs on 4 May

aboard a TU-114 flight; (4 May 67).

-XRAMIREZ, J

JOSE A.; The Foreign Ministry informed the

embassy that the Academy of Sciences wanted the package

left at the embassy by this student to be sent on the first

plane because 1t contained books that were needed for the

Institute of Meteorology; (4 Jul 67).

The embassy asked the Ministry of Education

if this scholarship holder

should be sent to Prague for the

trip home because his mother had cancer.

She had an operation,

but was doing well.

The Ministry said he should come, and

he left on the flight TU 114 with two scholarship holders fron

Bulgaria.

Later the embassy reported that he would not pass

his course because he had missed classes and had academic

offenses; (29 Mat 67, 10 Apr 67, 14 Apr: 67, 14 Apt 67, 29 Apr 67).

to him if he does not have one.

He and the eleven hydrology

and geology scholarship holders should come immediately so

that they could serve their apprenticeships before their

vacations; (24 May 67, 8 Jun 67).

RODRIGUEZ

ABELLA, MANUEL; The Ministry of Education

repeated, 1us request. for certification of his studies;

(29 May 67).

RODRIGUEZ ALVAREZ, ROlANDO, The Foreign Ministry asked

embassy to

Find out about the health of this scholarship

holder in Kiev because he had not written to his family since

November and was ill at that time. He was to be

instructed

to write home; (14 Apr 67).

GROUP-1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

- 8=

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355 DocId:32294986 Page 10

---

## Page 11

JEK Act 6 (11 (B)

SECRET LARCM

2X/0 J R70-67 (S3

((DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SECRET

0/54381-67

RODRIGUEZ, RAISA; The Embassy reported to the Ministry

of Education that this scholarship holder was in no condition

to travel to Cuba because she had just given birch to a

daughter who was sick; (18 Jul 67).

AROMANY; The embassy inforned the Ministry of Education

that this graduate translator was leaving on 27 April aboard

a IU-114 flight; (26 Apr 67).

SOSALES, ALFREDO; The Ministry of Education told the

embassy

that this scholarship holder's family häd been.

informed that he had left Leningrad on & Soviet ship with

three others and asked for the names of the boat and the

other three scholarship holders; (25 May 67).

XRUBIO, RAUL; The embassy inforned the Ministry of

Education that this scholarship holder was leaving on 23 May

aboard flight SU-047 because of a nervous disorder;

(23 May 67, 23 May 67).

KULL, MARGRITA; Ine embassy asked the Ministry oI

ducation to have someone meet this student and her daughter

who was ill.

They left on 22 June aboard flight SU-047;

(22 Jun 67).

X SALALAR

CALIXTO; The embassy asked the Ministry of

Education whether this scholarship holder should travel by

ship or plane when he finished his work on 5 June.

Ministry confirned his wife's illness and said he

should

fly, but shoüld send his baggage by ship.

He was later

reported to be traveling to Cuba on flight SU-047;

(26 May 67, 10 Jun 67; 14 Jul 67).

SANCHEZ, EVELIA; The embassy informed the Ministry of

Education that this scholarship holder and her daughter were

traveling on 27 April aboard the TU flight; (27 Apr 67).

"SANCHEZ

ONA

JORGE; The

embassy was asked for news about

this engineering

scholarship holder at the Jarkov Technical

Institute; (16 May 67).

ISOTO, RAMON;

LVAREZ,

TERESITA;,

REICOSA, ORLANDO: SIGUEREDO, CARLOS:

LUIS: The a

embassy

five

informed

she Ministry of Education

of these graduate

scholarship holders were going to

GROUP-1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON-INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

= ga

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId: 32294986

Page 11

---

## Page 12

C SECRET LAROM

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

28/01 7870-67{5)

((DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON- INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

SEGRET

0/54381-67

travel on 18 July on the TU flight and that ALVAREZ and FINLAY

were going to Berlin on vacation; (18 Jul 67).

SUAREZ MARGERO. ANTONIO; The Ministry of Education

informed the embassy that this scholarship holder's father

was very ill and that he should be sent home via plane when

he had finished his exams; (17 Jun 67)..

ANTONIO:

SUAREZ, LORENZO IVONE; *BERROA,

DIEGO; The embassy informed

Ke Ministry of Education that

these scholarship holders had left on 3 July aboard the

TU flight; (4 Jul 67).

TORRES, JORGE; The Ministry of Education asked the

embassy to inform this scholarship holder that he could send

his two-year-old son to the boarding school and should

notify the ministry of the arrival date; (18 Apr 67).

as TRUBAS;

for news of her husband since she had not been able to reach

him by phone nor had she received a letter.

Two months later

the Ministry told the embassy that he should return for a

medical check-up on the ship with the vacationing students

which leaves on 20 July; (3 May 67, 14 Jul 67).

WONG, LILIA; CASTRO, ROLANDO: FALCON,

GILBERTO; The

embassy asked that

a message be

Forwarded

to INDER Saying

that these graduates had finished their studies and had

left on 20 June aboard Aeroflot flight SU- 047, (15 Jun 67,

21 Jun 67).

YAYAS CORRIENTES, ANTONIO: The embassy was informed

his father had died and he should try to take the Il

flight to Havana.

He had finished his studies except for

writing his thesis; (29 Mar 67).

- MARIA EUGENIA; The embassy was informed that she might

be returning by ship.

Probably an agricultural student;

(19 Jun 67).

GROUP-1

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(DETACH PRIOR TO RELEASE TO NON- INDOCTRINATED RECIPIENT))

((A)) All information in this report was derived from Cuban

diplomatic communications.

-10-

SECRET LARUM

HH 55355

DocId:32294986 Page 12

---

