# docid-32279039

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10065-10406

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-974-34

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-610

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

04/02/1996

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32279039

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-142 20167

Collection Aot

1992 114, U5C 210

Hote).

FBI

SECRET

Date:

11/30/63

Transmit the following in

ENCODE

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

_DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

TELETYPE

(STK),

ATO IMFORMARTOG CONTAINED

(Priority, of Method of Mailing 0 27-93

0-1183kgel

Classifted

MAZIA SBONN OCUESWISES

Declassi

on: CADM

STER

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, DALLAS (44-1639)

Classes ly 2040

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (44-9741)

JACK LEON RUBY AKA; LEE HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM -

AKA; CIVIL RIGHTS.

RE POSSIBLE ASSOCIATION BETWEEN

JESSE CURRY,

CHIEF OF POLICE, DALLAS, TEXAS, AND RUBY.

THAT

NEW YORK FIVE THREE EIGHT

1-Z'ADVISER AT TWELVE (S

FIFTEEN P.M

NOVEMBER THIRTIETH NINETEEN SIXTY THREE,

WIESLAW GORNICKI, POLISH CORRESPONDENT OF THE POLISH

PRESS AGENCY,

IN A CONVERSATION WITH BOHDAN LEWANOWSKI,

POLISH AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS GORE STATED

THAT HE HAD INFORMATION INDICATING THAT THE CORRESPONDENT

(NAME NOT GIVEN) OF THE INDIAN PUBLICATION "BLITZ" WAS IN

DALLAS THE DAY OF THE ATTACK (ASSASSINATION) AND APPARENTLY

OBTAINED DOCUMENTS STATING THAI POLICE SHERIFF CURRY AND

RUBY WERE MEMBERS OF THE "ME SESIDE" (PH) . EGORNICKTWAS

Searched

I New York

Serialized

44-974-34

Indexed

Rileo

JJR: mb

(2)

leSupervisor

#25

Approved:

194

was

seal Agen: in charge roo fa

83% n

Per

DocId: 32279039 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John I Kennedy Assassination Recorits

DATE:

11-14-2017

1392

411 USC 0107 Hotel.

ALL INFORVICION CONTAINED

HERBIN IS UNCDASSIFLED EXCEPS

WEBRE SHORN OTHERWISE..

URGENT. 11-30-63.

6-18 PM

CJS

120/10

0-17-92

TO DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, DALLAS 144-1639/

Classifies by

5/70 HAB/rel

FROM SAC, NEW YORK 144-9741/ 2 PAGES: -- 8--

Decisity on: CADR

(G7K)

JACK LEON RUBY. AKA•, LEE HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM - AXA.,

CIVIL RIGHTS.

RE POSSIBLE ASSOCIATION BETWEEN JESSE CURRY, CHIEF. OF POLICE,

DALLAS, TEXAS, AND RUBY.

ENEW YORK GIVE THREE EIGHE-S ADVISED THAT

VAT TWELVE FIFTEEN PM

NOVEMBER THIRTEITH NINETEEN SIXTY THREE

WIESLAW GORNICKI, POLISH

'CORRESPONDENT OF THE POLISH PRESS AGENCY, IN A CONVERSATION

WITH

BOHDAN LEVANOWSKI, POLISH AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONS STATED

THAT HE HAD INFORMATION INDICATING. THAT THE CORRESPONDENT /NAME NOT

GIVEN/ OF THE INDIAN PUBLICATION "BLITZ", WAS IN DALLAS THE DAY OF

THE ATTACK /ASSASSINATION/ AND APPARENTLY OBTAINED DOCUMENTS

STATING THAT POLICE SHERIFF

CURRY AND RUBY WERE MEMBERS OF THE

"MB SESIDE" /PH/ GORNICKJ

WAS TO VERIFY THIS INFORMATION DECEMBER

END PAGE ONE

1/29/46

44-974-34

CLASSIPED BY 5668 Sis/ude

Searched

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X. (IX(6)

Serialized

Indexed

DECODED COPY

JFK

Rileo

DocId: 32279039 Page 3

---

