# docid-32556709

## Page 1

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

Arez comer

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GY "ERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. Gale

IKS

DATE: November 22, 1965

FROM

:T. J. McAndrews

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

DeLoac

Ca

reit

Gale

Rosen.

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter -

Jale. Room

folmes.

SUBJECT: GUS

ALEX

ANTI- RACKETEERING

493538

Alex is a top hoodlum in the Chicago area and

together with his girl friend, Suzanne, Fueger, has visited

Switzerland on winter vacations for the past several years.

Some indication has been received that he

may have handled

worancial transactions in Switzerland for the Chicago under- Fr

4.5.

Legat, Bern has established appropriate coverage of

Alex's activities in past years through cooperation of Swiss

authorities.

Following the last visit of Alex during the

winter of 1964-65, Swiss authorities on their initiative

issued a prohibition against his re-entry into that country

on the basis that he was an undesirable:

Alex has made efforts to have the ban lifted and

Swiss authorities have requested the Bureau, through Legat

at Bern, to furnish pertinent information to verify Alex's

identity.

Background information and photographs have been

already forwarded to the Legat for the information of Swiss

authorities.

_RECOMMENDATION

That the enclosed handwriting specimens, numbered

1a0, all purporting to be

be forwarded to the Document Section of the Laboratory for

comparison in order that the results of such comparison can f

Bern for possible assistance, of

be made available to lee tus requested that the desired

the swiss authorities.

examination be given expeditious handling,

and the results!

furnished

to the Criminal Intelligence and Organized Crime

Section.

P56492-3183-1119

Enc. 1(19)32 33 0924169

1

-

Mx.

Gale

- Mr !f Mcandrews

1

- Mr.

Leggett cr

• DECÁ # 1965

INDEX LAB

(4)

451 DEC 2)

- ENCLOSURE

77965

34322

NW 45679 DooId: 32556709

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KCI

Kc/

Qct

ITEMS 1 - 5:

Income tax signatures of Alex submitted by Chicago

airtel 11-10-65.

ITEMS 6 - 10:

Handwriting of Alex on passport material submitted

by Chicago airtel 11-10-65.

ITEM 11:

Fingerprint card of Alex, FBI number 4244200, LAPD

9-23-59.

ITEM 12:

Letter of Alex to Baur au Lac Hotel, Zurich,

Switzerland, 10-19-62.

ITEM 13:

Copy of letter by Alex dated 12-4 signed in care of

Celano Incorporated.

ITEM 14:

Hotel reservation for Alex and Fueger 2+12-63,

Dolder Grand Hotel.

ITEM 15:

Copy of pages 2 and 3 of passport of Alex issued

3-21-63.

ITEM 16:

" Alex's hotel registration number 83657.

ITEMS 17 and 18:

Hotel registrations of Alex, 1958 and 1959, Baur

au Lac Hotel.

ITEM 19:

Acl June 29, 1955.

Passport application of Alex number 730270 dated

92-3182-1119

ENCLOSURD

HW 45679 DocId: 32556709 Page 2

---

