# docid-32288748

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10024

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-234

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/09/1961

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ASSOC, GAMBLING, RES, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288748

Page 1

158

---

## Page 2

¿Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• D

FEDERAL BUREAU BE INE TF35

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUNg 196%

TELETYPE

URGENT

6-9*61

3-34. AM DFS

Mr. Tolson®

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. EvansC

Mr.

Malone.-

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Teie. Roona

Mr. Ingram

Wiss Gandy

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-3182

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 92-373

GUS ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE C ADVISED THAT

THE ASSOCIATION BETWEEN GUS ALEX AND LOUIS ARGER STARTED SOME TWENTY

THREE YEARS AGO WHEN ARGER OWNED A LITTLE CLUB WHICH WAS LOCATED WHERE

THE PRESENT DAY HOLIDAY LOUNGE NOW STANDS ON STATE STREET. ARGER WAS

A PARTNER OF ONE JOE BOVIDO AT THAT TIME. THE ITALIAN ELEMENT OF

THE QUOTE OUTFIT END QUOTE ATTEMPTED TO MUSCLE ARGER AND BOVIDO OUT

OF THEIR CLUB. ARGER WENT TO SEE GUS ALEX

AT THE BLUE ARROW, WHICH

AT THAT TIME WAS LOCATED ON TWENTY SECOND STREET. ARGER PROTESTED

TO ALEX REGARDING THE MUSCLING ATTEMPTS BY THE ITALIAN ELEMENT. ALEX

AGREED TO PROTECT ARGER, SO HE COULD RETAIN HIS CLUB FOR A FEE

OF TWENTY PERCENT OF THE PROCEEDS OF ARGER-S CLUB. INFORMANT SAID THIS

WAS A UNIQUE AGREEMENT BETWEEN. ALEX AND ARGER AND IS STILL IN EFFECT

• TO THIS DATE. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT BOVIDO IS STILL ASSOCIATED WITH

ARGER IN HIS ENTERPRISES ON SOUTH STATE STREET AND THAT BOVIDO-S

WIFE, WHO FREQUENTS THE HOLIDAY LOUNGE, KEEPS THE BOOKS FOR ARGER/

REGARDING

THE HOLIDAY LOUNGE AND ARGER-S OTHER INTERESTS ON

REC-: 40

STATE STREET. IT F$ 18GE NOTED THAT ATTEMPTS WERE MADE TO INTERVIEW

ARCER BUT HE REFUSED TO BE INTERVIEWED STATING HE HAD NOTHIEF TO SAY

1* JUN

TO THE FBI. MAIL COVER ON ALEX-S MAILING ADDRESS AT EVER

BEEN PARK,

ILLo, RECENTLY DISCLOSED MAIL FRÓN AY

NICK METRES. METRES INTERVIEWED AND

END PAGE ONE 5 6 JUN 14 1967X

DocId: 32288748 Page 2

---

