# docid-32310577

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10305-10026

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3960-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/25/1962

1

SGR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310577

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr.

Tolson

FEDERAL FUREAU Of IN ESTIGATION

U.S. DEFARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 2 5 190L

TELETYPE

Mr.

Belmont-

Mr.

Mohr-

MII.

Callahan

Mr.

Conrad.

Vir.

DeLonch

Mr.

Evans

Mr.

Malone

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Afr.

Tarel

Mr. Trotter

URGENT 1-25-62 9-05

PM PEC

Tele. Room

"Tr. Ingram

TO DIRECTOR, 14 FBI 92-3960 AND SAC, MIAMI 82-442

Mise Gandy

FROM SAC, NEW YORK 92-1108

1P

SALVATORE GRANELLO, AKA, AR. ON JAN. TWENIX LIVE SIXTY TWO

NY ONE EIGHT NINE FOUR DASH PC ADVISED HE JUST RETURNED FROM A

FEW DAYS VISIT IN MIAMI BEÄCH, FLA. HE STATED WHILE THERE HE WAS

WITH HIS PARTNER, FRANK DIOGUARDI, WHERE THEY OPERATE THE

DREAM BAR, MIAMI BEACH. HE STATED THAT ON JAN TWENTY THREE

SIXTY TWO, HE WAS INVITED TO SONNY-S RESTAURANT, TWENTY THIRD ST.

OFF COLLINS AVE., MIAMI BEACH, FLA. BY DIOGUARDI. DIOGUARDI

STATED THAT HE HAD A MEETING THERE. WHEN THEY ARRIVED, INFORMANT •

• WENT TO BAR AND THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS WERE SEEN WITH

DIOGUARDI.. NICK MASCHUOCI, AKA NICK CARRY, FROM NJO, SA

SALVATORE

GRANELLO, AKA SALLY BURNSO, JOSEPH INDELICATO, AKA JOE SCOOCH.,

JAMES NAPOLI, AKA JIMMY NAPO, THOMAS MUSCHITTI /PHONETIC/,

POSSIBLY OWNER OF SONNY-S RESTAÚRANT. INFORMANT DID NOT KNOW

WHAT THIS MEETING WAS IN RELATION TO. MIAMI ATTEMPT TO

ASCERTAIN PURPOSE OF MEETING.

"WILL ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY THOMAS

MUSUMITTI, ALLEGED OWNER OF SONNŸ-S RESTAURANT.

END

REC - 37.

032€

EX:116

12-3960018

5:

NY R 14 WA NH

ALf hO JAN 26 1962

68 FEB 5 1962

BEC.

17c

DocId: 32310577

Page 2

---

