# docid-32315126

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10339-10090

RECORD SERIES :

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-61-1-373

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BU

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/09/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315126

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev.

4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

JUNE

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-4227. .) DATE:

9/9/64

FROM : SAC, BUFFALO (92-61 Sub 1) (P)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

VINCENT A. SCRO

Character of Case

AR

Field Office

Buffalo

Symbol Number

BU: 82-C*

Type of surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone

Microphone

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

STEVE MAGADDINO, aka

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

office of VINcENT A. SCRO,

second floor, camellia Linen

SuppLy company, Inc: 460 East. Delavan Avenue, Buffalo,

New York.

3.

Location of

monitoring plant:

Buffalo

Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorization

3/24/61

Installation

1/4/61

5:

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

BU 280-C was installed 11/8/62 in the office of the Magaddino

Memorial - Chapel,

Niagara Falls,

"STEVE MAGADDINO,

New York, under case captioned

aka " AR,!.

" Burtalo file 92-612

Bufile 92-2924

6.

If installation is a technical, surveillance, answer following questions:

Is a trunk line utilized?

Not applicable

b.

Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Not applicable

Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated, telephone?

92-61 Ruh! -

No applIcable

Registered Mail

Bureau (AM-RM)

Buftalo

FBJ: imv (2) 1mr

Assralian

Serialized 22202

Sadawant

- Pilod

DocId: 32315126 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61 Sub 1

d.

Is surveillance on a private line or a party line? Not applicable

e.: If a party line, how many parties?

Not applicable

7. Il a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone located in the telephone connection block on

the wall near the desk of VINCENT A. SCRO.

8.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received.

State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached

10.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject is known to six live informants who cover subjeet

and his father-in-lan, STEVE MAGADDINO,

but cannot supply

information furnished by BU 82-0*.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13.

Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a.

Rental costs for plant premises:

None.

Plent Located Buffalo

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant. & 3

- 2 -

DocId: 32315126 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61 Sub 1

On 7/23/64, JAMES V. LA DUCA complained to SORO

regarding his daughter's association with the sons of SAM

RANGATORE and (JOSEPHI) TODARO.

On 7/29/64,

ex reported that SCRO was apparently

researching tax recept records, possibly in connection

with the IRS case.

On 8/7/64, CI furnished information relating to

business activitles of the Camellia Linen Supply Company,

town for a lew days.

On 8/11/64, CI learned that SCRO would be out of

On 8/13/64, CHARLES A. MONTANA advlsed the Informant

that his partner is out of cown.

Subsequently on 8/13/64

MONTANA and LA DUCA had a discussion which indicated LA DUCA!s

dissatisfaction with the manner in which SCRO is managing

the Camellia Linen Supply Company and the inferior position

forced upon LA DUCA by SCRO.

The information regarding the travel of SCRO

supplemented and amplified information received from BU 280-0*

on 8/13/64 and BU 297-0-TE on 8/18/64, which indicated that

STEVE MAGADDEVO and SCRO were in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

On 8/17/64, ci again furnished information regarding

LA DUCA's dissatisfaction in his relationship with SCRO and

infamation regarding financial aspects of the company!s

operation.

on 8/18/64, CI learned from LA DUCA that LA DUCA

would be going away and that STEVE MAGADDINO was allegedly

bedridden.

On 8/19/64, LA DUCA advised the Informant that he

would be leaving that

afternoon or on the following morning.

LA DUCA furnished details of his expected date of return.

On 8/20/64,

ot his partners were away.

MONTANA advised the informant that all

- 20 4

DocId: 32315126 Page 4

---

