# docid-32319541

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10371-10072

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-W

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

RYAN

CLARK

DATE: 06/21/1979

'PAGES:

54

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, POSITION

CLASSIFICATION MATTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, R/S, NOTE, FD-243, MEMO, 0-32

v9.1

DocId: 32319541

56

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

' DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Fehl

J. S. Peelman

6/9/77

1 - Mr. Fehl

A- Mr. Peelman

- Mr.

Lawn

1 - Mr. Long

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

PURPOSE: To request the promotion of two Grade GSL Clerks to

the position of Research Clerk, Grade GS-5, in the Congressional

Inquiry Unit.

RECOMMENDATION: That Mr. Phillip I. Brookman and Mrs. Dianne H.

Pavlansky, presently assigned Congressional Inquiry Unit,

special Investigative Division, be promoted to the position

Research Clerk, Grade GS-5, (proposed) in the Congressional Inguiry

Unit, Special Investigative Division, on a 90-tay trial basts.

DETAILS: Per Peelman to Fehl memorandum dated 5/31/77, entitled

"Position Classification Matters,"

ClerkS,

Grade Gs-5, were requested for attenment to Re

two Research

Congressional Inquiry Unit.

Evaluation of work performance records and personnel

files of Mr. Phillip T. Brookman (Buffle 67-728605) and

Mrs. Dianne

H. Pavlansky (Buffle 67-706001), presently assigned to

i. Pavlan

the Congressional Inquiry Unit, has determined they are the most

qualified Grade GS-4 level candidates eligible for promotion to the

Research Clerk, Grade AS-5, position (proposed).

Both have

participated fully in the mission of the Congressional Inquiry

Unit since its inception.

They are intimately familiar with the

filing system, organization, procedures and responsibility of the

Unit.

This background experience provides them with the knowledge

and experience to carry out their new responsibilities as described

on the attached position description (proposed).

It 18 recommended

that they be promoted to the position of Research Clerk, Grade GS-5,

In the Congressional Inquiry Unit on a 90-day trial

basis.

Enclosure

EEH: sas (5)

DocId:32319541

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE :11-14-2017

N2. Fehl

4/28/77

J. S, Peelman

CONOBESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

1

rie:

Mr. Adams

Mr. Fehl

Mr. Peelman

Ar. Laun

Ex • Batfield

Nr. Moore

1.

Hr. Leavitt

His. Long

PET To resees to a ten to Research Analysto,

RECOMMENDATION: That Miss Mary E. Rowe and files Jane Marie

Nelson be assigned to the Congressional Inquiry Unit, Speelal

Investigative Diviaion, on a 90-doy trial basis in position

Research Analyst, 08-7 (proposed).

DETAILS: Per Peelman to Moore memorandum dated 4/11/77 entitled,

"PositIon Classification Ratters," copy attached, two Research

Analysts, 08-T, are requested for immediate assignment to

the Congressional Inquiry Unit.

Review of Researah Anelyst qualification test acores

and personnel files of those

grade GS-5

employees eligible

pronotion indicate that Mise Hary E, Rove (Buffle 67-

747824) presently assigned as a clovestenographer in the

Crininal Investigative Division and itss Jone Marie Nelson

(Buffle 67-741454) presently assigned as a seeretery (atenog-

rapher): Intelligence Division, are eligible for promotion.

Miss Rove recently scored 280 pointe out of a possible 302

points on the Research Analyst qualification test, placing

her in the top of the qualification llet.

Mise Nelson scored

Enclosure

EEH/giw (9)

CONTINUED - OVER

DocId:32319541 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 547-14-2017

Peelman to Mr. Fehl Memorandum

No: CONCRESSIONAL

INSUIRY UNIT

232 points on the same test, placing her in the highar levels

of those eligible for promotion.

those test

BeOres roflect

excellent potential for these employees in the Rosearch Analyat

position. Unit Chiefs John C. Gordon, Grininal Investigative

Division, and Charles I, Lunsford, Intelligence Division, have

rated the respective employees bighly.

Both employees, after

an explanation of their proposed duties and responsibilities

In the Congressional Inquiry Valt, have expressed a desire to

be given this pronotional opportunity.

It 10 reconnended that

they be transferred to the Congressional Inquiry Unit on a

90-doy trial basis.

DocId: 32319541

Page 4

---

