# docid-32331899

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90100-10117

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 52-72398-116

Released under the John

F. Kennedu

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54027 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CV

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/02/1959

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

STUART SUTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32331899

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

CV 52-1918

AI CANAI FULTON, OHIO

Telephone

MARTINEZ, Sr., at Canton, Ohio, GLendale 6C385, on 9/5/58.

AT CANTON, OHIO

(1)

Will determine to whom Ohio License M352Y is

registered and If deemed advisable interview re knowledge of

instant theft.

(2)

Will contact GEORGE ROTAR

re his knowledge of instant

theft.

(3)

Will reinterview PCI ROBERT MILLER in an effort to

identify the ex-service flyer from Ycungstown, Ohio, who helped

fly arms to Cuba.

(4)

Will chack records of Western Union re the telegram

sent to LOUIS MARTINEZ at the Ponce de Leon Hotel, Miami,

Florida, on 3/28,58, signed NICK.

(5)

Will interview GEORGE MIKE FLOREA re his knowledge of

instant theft.

AT CLEVELAND, OHIO

*Wiil advise Detroit, Chicago, Louisville and

Washington Field Offices when stops may be removed concerning

stolen weapons.

(2)

Will conduct credit and criminal checks and obtain

background information on ARTHUR PRINZ, who in 1945 was

reported to reside in Cleveland, Telephone (no exchange) 18252.

(3)

11/4/50, the date on which subject STUART SUIOR, who was

arrested at Morgantown, West Virginia,

with part of the guns

stolen in instant theft. Refer to Pittsburgh letter to Bureau

1/13/59.

COVER PAGE

-C-

NW 54027 DooId: 32331899 Page 2

---

## Page 3

7

CV 52-1918

Will obtain photograph at the Cleveland Police

Department of JOE BIAGIO so it may be shown

to PCI JOHN

APOSTOLOS to ascertain if this is the TOE BAGGY he referred to.

AT MASSILLON, OHIO

Will check records of the First National Bank to

ascertain if LOUIS MARTINEZ had an account at instant bank.

Will ascertain details concerning checks MARTINEZ wrote on

this bank in the amounts of $22,000, $5.000, and $280, signed

MARTINEZ and payable to cash.

AT MINERVA, OHIO

Will Identify subscriber to KI 37591 and If deemed

advisable interview ve their knowledge of instant theft.

Refer to Cincinnati letter to Cleveland 1/20/59.

AT WOOSHER, OHIO

(1)

WIll a splay photograph of MAZIL HANNA to SALLY

KRAJCIK to ascertain if she can identify him as an associate

of LOUIS MARTINEZ.

Will interview SALLY KRAJCIK re a letter postmarked

8/11/58 to LOUIS MARTINEZ, Ponce de Leon Hotel, Miami, Florida,

regarding a "$800 deal."

Refer to New York report, 2/10/59,

Page F, of the Administrative Section.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The period dates in this report overlap those in the

report of SA HAROLD E. WEIDA dated in Cleveland on January 15,

1959, due to the fact that investigative results were not

available at the

•time of dictation of the previous report.

On 1/7/59 PCI JOHN G. APOSTOLOS advised SA JAMES E.

GILLEY that SA LOUIS MARTINEZ was in his place last week

waving a check around and saying that same was for $8000.

Informant advised he did not know if this was true or not;

however, he observed that the check was drawn on the

COVER PAGE

-D-

NW 54027 DooId:32331899 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CV 52-1918

Chase Manhattan Bank. He also stated that MARTINEZ advised he

planned to fly to Miami on 1/1/59 and then proceed to Cuba.

Since FIDEL CASTRO had taken over in Cuba, MARTINEZ expected

"riding the gravy train" and, in addition, PCI stated

that GEORGE MIKE FLOREA stated he might also obtain a job in

Cuba.

On 1/23/59 PCI ROBERT MILLER advised that GEORGE

ROTAR and a man named JACK (LNU) were very thick before in-

PSAL TEN METER A

stant theft and they might be implicared in the theft. He

was unable to furnish any details excer: he was of the opinion

that ROTAR had access to a white Cadillac and JACK drove a

grey 1957 or 1958 Chrysler with Ohio License M352Y.

Infornant described JACK a= white, male, five feet

six inches tall, 195 pounds, age 50 to 55 years, dark

complexion, and veans glasses.

PCI MittEn also advised that a man who was an ex-

service flyer fron Youngstown, Ohio, helped to fly arms to Cuba.

ne nad no additional information in

this regard, but indicated

he would attempt to obtain more details concerning this indi-

vidual.

On 1/10/59 PCI ROBERT MILIER advised SA JAMES E. GILLEY

that LOUIS MARTINE? had paid a gang at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,

to pull the armory job by giving them two checks

, a paza a

which bounced.

MARTINEZ later made the checks good, informant said.

The

informant advised he had no additional details re the checks.or

the Pittsburgh gang.

Informant also stated that HARRY MANGERIS had

approached him about three weeks

or so previously with the

proposition

to act as

"cover man" on a job in or near

Washington, D. C. This job was worth $30,000 and they were

to "knock off''

a public official who had taken $100,000 from

the Cuban Rebels to purchase supplies; however, had

kept the

money.

'He stated MANGERIS did not give him any additional

information and stated he would contact him later. Sometime

later he ascertained MANGERIS was interviewed by a law enforce-

ment official concerning another matter and was now afraid to

move on the job. He advised that he expected MANGERIS to

recontact him when things had cooled off and the job could again

proceed.

COVER PAGE

-E-

NW 54027 DooId: 32331899 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CV 52-1918

Miss THELMA HURSH, Business Office, Mansfield Telephone

Company, (Protect identity) advised SA VINCENT R. NAPOLI that

PIoneer 7-5596 is no longer a working number, but that in July,

1958; it was listed to HARRY R. WELCH, then residing at

30 OxIord Ila.c=

Mansfield.

She saic WALCH had this number

from 3/24/58 to 8/8/58, when his telephone was transterre.

to 673 Armstrong Street, which is the Cloverleaf Mobile Village

address.

She said WELCH's present telephone number is PI 7-4734,

and he has had this number since 8/12/03.

On 1/29/52 SALLY KRAJCIK, 2515 Lincolnway West,

Wooster, Ohio, was contacted by SA NAPOlE to deternine if she

knew of any further developments in ühis natter which might be

pertinent to the lovestigation.

KRAJCT Raid she was under the impression from

previous conversations with MARTINEZ, after he had been released

from the kidnapping charges in New York City, that he had told

FBI Agents that ine had been no where near Canton, Ohio, on the

date of instant inett.

She also stated that she had learned

either through & previous conversation with FBI Agents or with

MARTINEZ (she could not recall which) that information had

been developed that MARTINEZ was known to have been seen in or

near Steubenville, Ohio, either just before or just after the

date of the theft.

said she believed MARTINEZ had been

questioned about this fact, and he had denied being around

Steubenville on or about the pertinent date.

Continuing, KRAJCIK stated that on an unrecalleddate

in December, 1958, she was talking to MARTINEZ, at which time

he told her he had been to see a friend in or near Steubenville

to get $2500 from him, adding that this friend had owed him

this money.

She said

she asked MARTINEZ,

"Did you say

Steubenville? Didn't you tell the FBI you were

never there?"

To this,

according to KRAJCIK, MARTINEZ seemed

to realize he

made a slip in

his conversation and then said,

'Oh, I mean

Toronto, Ohio."

KRAJCIK said she did not know the name of

the friend in

Steubenville or. Toronto, and had no way of knowing

if MARTINEZ was lying about getting

the money from him.

KRAJCIK said she deuced from this slip by MARTINEZ that he had

been in Steubinville or Icronto previously to loan his friend

the money, assuming he was telling her the truth.

COVER PAGE

-F-

NW 54027 DooId:32331899 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CV 52-1918

KRAICIK also informed she last saw MARTINEZ on 1/3/59,

as on that date he flew to Cuba... She said he had only about

$15 in his possession, which she lower him,

as he had only a

few dollars to his name.

She said he loft in a private plane

after an attorney in Canton contacted him to advise his son-in-

law was going to Cuba in a private plane and would have room

for MARTINEZ if he wanted to go.

Upon leaving, she said

MARTINEZ told her he hopes of getting $25,000 expense money.

from CASTRO, which would represent his past expenses in

CASTRO's behalf. He also told her he

borrow ten million dollars from CASTRO to build the Pan-American

Building In Miami, Florida.

In regard to the license nuders she pieviously

furnished: SA JAMAS E. GILLEY by telephoe in October, 1958,

which were seen by her on cars parked together at a cafe in

Wooster on the nishi of October 21, 1958, KRAJCIK explained

she furnished these numbers as they were on cars which were

similar to Foräs in description and which were green in color.

(It will be recailed that KRAJCIK was asked if

she knew of

anyone who had & green Ford or white Cadillac.) In reviewing

the license numbers observed on the cars by her, as she reported

them, she

said

she realized after she furnished

the license

numbers of two

of the cars, that they were incorrect.

said she observed the cars parked beside the Overlook Inn, which

is located next door to her house, and recognized them as

belonging to employees of Aranair Corporation, and therefore,

friendly with NICK TRIKILIS, as well as being possibly friendly

with MARTINEZ. She said she furnished these license numbers as

being on cars

which might have been mistaken for green Fords.

She said she furnished one license number as being

US 641, whereas this number should have been correctly reported

as US 541. She said this plate is on a 1955 Green Mercury and

belongs to GEORGE DEFFENBAUGH, of Wooster, who works as a

salesman, she believed, for TRIKILIS at Aranair Corporation.

She said

VA 959 is o7 a 1950 two-tone grey Buick which she

thought belonged to JUNIOR BRENNEMAN.

She added that she has

since found out that Ohio License SC

229 (which she said she

furnished as VO 229) is not connected with Aranair Corporation

nor is the

owner associated with this situation at all.

(A

license check of VC 229 reveals that this license is listed to

VEE A. COCCIA, 945 Washington Avenue, Wooster, on a 1954 Ford

Two-door sedan).

COVER PACE

-G-

NW 54027 DooId:32331899 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CV 52-1918

KRAJCIK said she was sorry she made this mistake and

intended to advise the FBI of her error, but she forgot to do

50..

In view of the admitted error, and in view of the

fact DEFENBAUGH is an employee at Aranair, no further con-

tacts are being made with these license owners,

as mentioned

above, and likewise, LESTER LIIWILLER, 904 Grant Street, Wooster,

will not be interviewed.

On February 4, 1959, SALIR KRAJCIK telephonically

advised SA WEIDA that LOUIS MARTINED and been in Cuba for

a month and he has called her on two occasions foon Cuba and

stated that he was doing very well.

"e advised her that if

anybody in the sated States had any doubts about his current

status he would sent a private plane to the United States to

fly them down to cuba and they could see for themselves how

he was doing.

WARDENEZ also stated that he was contemplating

receiving $10,000.000 from the FIDEL CASTRO Government for

erecting a Pan-American Building in Miami.

Mrs. GWEN STILIWELL, Ohio Bell Telephone Company,

Alliance, Ohio: advised on January 23, 1959, that Telephone

No.

WE 5-2447 was listed to JOSEPH VALENTINE, Alliance

Marlboro Road, RD Two, Alliance, Ohio.

Mrs. STILLWELL stated that WE 5-2451 was listed to

ELMER DIXON, Marlboro Road, RD One, Alliance.

Inasmuch as ELMER DIXON is a member of the Ohio

National Guard, Canton, no interview of him is contemplated.

On January 23, 1959, Mrs. JOSEPH VALENTINE advised

that she could recall no long-distance telephone call received

from the Ohio National Guard in Canton.

She further related

that she would have no idea why such a

• call should be placed

to her home since her husband is not

a member. of the Ohio

National Guard and has no connection with the Ohio National

Guard.

A check of the Akron, Ohio, Crisscross Telephone

Directory on 2/3/59 by SA GEORGE F. MC INTURFF, III, disclosed

that JE 5-4416 is listed to the Ohio National Guard, Akron

COVER PAGE

-H-

NW 54027 DooId:32331899 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CV 52-1918

Armory, 161 South High Street, Akron. PO 2-2441 Is listed to

the University of Akron.

The

1956-1957 City Directory IOI

Akron lists one DOMINIC J. GUZZETTA as Dean, Evening Division,

University of Akron.

M. WILLIAM DAVIS, Commercia: Manager, Ohio Bell

Telephone Company, North Fifth Street,

Listing KI 3-7591 is a listing from the General Telephone

Company with offices at Minerva, Ohio.

Mrs. MARY ANN HALL, Ohio Bel: Telephone Company,

Woödsfield, Ohio, advised SA

MC AVOr on January 6, 1959,

that

ner company does nos have a prefex Un in or near Bernsville,

Ohio.

Mrs. Halu stated it is possible that Un S is an error

and could possibly be OR 9-3578.

Mrs. HALL called the

information operatoz at Woodsfield and ascertained that

HAROLD MC MILIAN, Quaker City, Ohio, is the

subscriber to

Telephone No. OR 9-3578, and this number belongs to the Home

Telephone Company vith offices at Fairview, Ohio.

The following informants of the Cincinnati Division

were contacted regarding instant theft with negative results:

CI 207-0

CI 284-C

CI 287-0

CI 344-C

A review of the Cleveland Office indices reflect

that on 12/30/55 the Cincinnati Office directed a letter to

the Bureau captioned HOWARD C. DERR - Complainant; VINCENT

DE SIMIO; ARTHUR PRINZ; Information Concerning, which contained

the following information.

On 12/13/55 HOWARD C. DEER, 968 James Street,

Springfield, Ohio,

telephonically contacted the Dayton, Ohio,

Resident Agency and talked to SA WALTER A. BOYLE.

He

advised that in April, 1955, he had been contacted by VINCENT

DE SIMIO and ARTHUR PRINZ, both of Cleveland, Ohio, who had

asked nim to try to find for them certain Government surplus

COVER PAGE

-I-

NW 54027 DooId: 32331899 Page 8

---

