# docid-32342125

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10020-10050

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: 201-289248

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:MM 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

June 3, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 04/2006

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 04/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

HH 53199

DocId: 32342125

Page 1

---

## Page 2

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 04/2006

Board Review Completed: 04/17/96

53199

DocId: 32342125

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Date: 05/20/96

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10020-10050

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

CIA

: JMWAVE

DIRECTOR CIA

TITLE : CABLE - CUBANS APPEAR EXTREMELY WORRIED ABOUT A MEXICAN

NAMED CAMACHO.

DATE :

01/09/64

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : CUBA REACTION

INVESTIGATION

OSWALD, LEE H.

ASSAS.

CAMACHO, М. L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/26/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : OSW5: V3 1994.01.26.14:04:30:750028:

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32342125

Page

3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM : & UMWAVE

ACTION, C/WH. 4.

INFO : DCI,. D/DCI; DDP, C/CI,

c/ci/sI/

VR

1

2

ROUTING

4

5

RECÓRDS OFICER. STAMPE

The following action

18.

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

hanswall

Signed:

R. 0. #1 - Unit

C/RA

Note:

If destruction, cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriate.

19 JA GUIN 94004

SECRET 0900227

DIR CITE WAVE 0173

BYDA?

GPFLOOR P BURMEN

REF: WAVE 8658 (IN 75902)

10. LETTER FROM UNSTAR TO JENTONS DATED 20 DEC 63, RECEIVED

6 JAN 64 STATES CUBAN APPEAR EXTREMELY WORRIED ABOUT MEXICAN NAMED

CAMACHO, DESCRIBED AS SMALL FAT WITH LOTS OF BLACK HAIR, SAID TO BE

CHIEF OF ACTION RESEAU ACTIVE THROUGHOUT TEXAS AND POSSIBLY PART OF

MEXICO, ACTING UNDER BUSINESS COVER AND RECEIVING FUNDS AND REQUIREMENIS

FROM RAMON B: CORTES AND FERNANDEZ FELTO (SEE REF). CAMACHO ENHOSE FULL

REAL NAME UNKNOWN TO UNSTARD ALSO REPORTEDLY CLOSE FRIEND OF

TWO MEXICAN MILLIONAIRE BROTHERS NAMED/ PASCUAL OR PASQUEL WHO INVOLVED

IN MEXICAN OR TEXAN OIL BUSINESS AND WHO IGNORANT CAMACHO'S TRUE

ACTIVITIES:

2. NO IDENTIFIABLE WAVE TRACES CAMACHO OR PASQUEL OR PASCUAL.

SECRET

C/S Comment: *Forwarded info. from UNSTAR'(I) to effect that Castro reportedly

extremely concerned with persistence of investigation into President Kennedy's

murder.

GROUP I

SECRET

Excluded from auromarie

damancedino dad

declassifiralian

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

D- 200-5-41

HH 53199 DocId: 32342125

Page 4

CS COPY

Document Number

468-89

201-289248

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

---

