# docid-32286479

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10255

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2147

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/18/1968

5

SGI, ACT, RES, BKG, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32286479 Page 1

123

---

## Page 2

FV-263 122:.38-671

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

DATE

7/18/68

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/7 - 7/8/68

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER, JR.,

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

ear

REFERENCE:

LEADS

CHICAGO

3/22/89: SeRV

Report of SA viAM

CLASS. & ENT.

63/020 dated 5/17/68, at Chick

DETE OF REVIEW

ILLINOIS•

DATE_

Will continue to follow

4g1 10

and repd

AT CHICAGO,

activities of GIANCANA.

i..l'e

FIET D OFFICES

18:12595

2DAT

•PI FROM GOS, CATEGOR

OF DECLASSIFICATION

TP

PIERT

6-78

PRIATE AGE

NORT

AND FIFIN 01

ADiATORON

DATE

CONVIC. AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

None

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

SITES INO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

JrES XINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

girl

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau

(92-3171)

I - Legat,

Mexico Citx7-(%)

- USA, Chicago

2 - Chicago (92-349)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171-2147

7114

TREC 17

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd

How Fwd.

By

7.83-68

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

_OC. AAG, Criminal Division,

Organized Chine and Racketeering

Section, Room 25

57 AUG 6-1968

22 JUL 22 1968

Notations...

A ES

DAE VLYP

sEct. (s) 023-31

DITS D 2:

DATE

P* U.S. GOVERMMENT P

INE OFFICE: 1967 0—21

NW 45792 DocId: 32286479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

Source

CG T-1

Former PCI

Date and Contacting Agent

7/8/68 to SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

U OTHER A

CG T-2

Asst. - Commissioner - Crime

Bahamas Police Force

(deemed desireable)

B*

-

COVER PAGE

128-.1953.27.-=

NW 45792 DocId: 32286479 Page 3

---

## Page 4

F"D-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

*UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICÉ

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Chicago

Report of:

Date:

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

7/18/68

Field Office File #:

92-349

Title:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

Office:

Bureau File *:

Chicago

92-3171

Character:

Synopsis:

135/22/3125288pour

ANTI-RACKETEERING

5283-8649 Greas

GIANCANA has been identified using aliases JOHN WILLIAMS

and

NICKY MANCUSO,

Staying either at Lucayan Beach Hotel or

the

Kings Inn in Freeport, the Grand Bahamas, in March, 1968.

GIANCANA has not been

observed in Chicago area

Since

his

release from Cook County Jail in May, 1966755

015-87

CLASS.

63

Sue lea

REASON-70*M TI, 1-2.4.8

DATE OF RUTIEW

2.1

GLASSTFTED BY /2S

EXEMPT FROM GAS,

DATE CE DECLASSI

NEGORY

DATION INDDEINITE

11-6-78

ALMO

AD"

SLAPISTA

DATE_

APPROP

AND FTEN

ADVISED

SLIP (S

DATE

GENCIES

TICES

COUNTR

10-31-84

APPROPRIATE AGENC

AND FIELD OFFICE

ADVISED BY ROLLING GIS

SLIP (S) OF

DATE

Blassified

Exempti

CONFID!

Tish

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1967-0-273-878

45792 DocId: 32286479

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

DETAILS:

100t

AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS

I. BACKGROUND

Residence

CG T-l advised that he has not observed GIANCANA

at or near the vicinity of his residence at 1147 South Wenonah,

Oak Park, Illinois, since he was incarcerated in the Cook

County Jail June 1, 1965. U

CG T-1 is in such a position that he observes

at thè residence of GIANCANA practically on an hourly basis

,activity

during the day and evening hours and would be expected to see

GIANCANA Should GIANCANA be at his residence.U

II. TRAVEL

CG T-2 advised that he had caused investigation

to be conducted in the Grand Bahamas concerning the possibility

that SAM GIANCANA has, visited there. CG T-2 advised that a

source of his contacted a usually reliable source who,' when

shown GIANCANA'S photograph, immediately identified him to

be NICKY MANCUSO also known

as JOHN WILLIAMS.

According to

this source, GIANCANA was at Freeport in the Grand Bahamas

in approximately March, 1968, and at that time was using the

name of JOHN WILLIAMS,

staying either at the Lycayan Beach Hotel

or the Kings Inn. This source, an ex-Chicago Police Officer,

had conversation

of his identification of GIANCANA.

CG T-2 advised that inasmuch as hotels at Freeport

do not keep files of their guest as far back as 2 months, no

corroboration,

was possible

i the visit of GIANCANA in the Grand Bahamas

+ uJ

CG

I=2

Levised that steps have been taken to insure

that GIANCANA's name is being placed before the Director of

Immigration of the Grand Bahamas with a view to having

declared undesirables.

2*

-

102-10522

NW 45792 DocId: 32286479

Page 5

---

