# docid-32310692

## Page 1

Released under the John 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10306-10101

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 91-5535-9118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/25/1952

1

NRO, RODRIGUEZ, REX, ASSOC, FINANCIAL, GAMBLING

CONCESSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310692

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released'under the Jöhn F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI (91-5535)

DONET

3M1714 bATE:

July 25, 1952

Havana, Cuba

FROM

Legal Attache,

Havana, Cuba (91-3)

SUBJECT:

ROBINK

RS

$24,326

Classified by

Declassif

GADR

42/85

ALT: I

ETON CONTAINED

E3101SD

RE: REKRODRIGUEZ

Rebulet July 2, 1952 which transmitted copy of Boston letter to

Bureau dated 6-23-52.

-FRICE

Former NYC-25, who presently resides in Havana and whose identity

has a great deal of contact with the sans Souci

Night Club and is very friendly with one JACKIE/AVIS, one of the principal

gamblers and front men at the Sans Souch and not identical with the JACK

at not onion sit to

DAVIS mentioned in Boston letter. Source is also acquainted with a number

of the other gamblers at the Sans Souci. He was questioned as to whether

he had ever known a REX RODRICUEZ at the Sans Souci and he said that he had

not. He could not recall anyone meeting the general description of

RODRIGUEZ as set forth in reference Boston letter (KU)

Source made discreet inquiry of JACKIE DAVIS and of one CARLOS

'CHIVO"MIRANDA, well connected in local gambling circles, and neither of

MAC

then admitted knowing RODRIGUEZ. (*I(U)

As the Bureau is aware, the principal money to operate the

gambling concession at the Sans Souci is put up by the SAN/MANNERINO gang

of New Kensington, PA. The chief front man for this organization in Havana

His NORMAN ROTHMAN, who acts as manager at the Sans Souci.

The only information which has come to our attention indicating

any possible tie in with the Boston area was the fact that during February

and March, 1952, LEQ A: SANTANIELLO, FBI No. 585960,, was in avana and

apparently working as a shill for the Sans Souci.. This information was

furnished by JAMES ENNIS, Manager of the Hotel Nacional, who had consIderabLe

lifficulties in getting SANTANTELLO out of the Nacional after the latter's

ateering activities around the hotel had become objectional rae

Information concerning SANIANIELIO is set forth in she repoyt

of Inspector M. E. CURNEA in instant case dated 62650 at Boston.

is a considerable discrepancy between the descriptions of RODRIGUEZ, and

the

SANTANIELLO and it does not appear likely that the two are identical.

If any additional background data is available which might serve

it is suggested that it be furnished in

Two extra copies of this letter arg attached for forarding to

Boston, the office of origin. i

141-35

RECORDED-30

9/15

_copies made

3/13/78 JS6/d1p

7268

TODA: JES

00 AUG 157952

41952

Are Nomon Portan

INDEXED..3n EX

for revien at BraQ by

CONFID

(See Butile 432-117290)

DocId: 32310692

Page 2

---

