# docid-32287689

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10197-10465

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

159-757-50

444 USC

107 Notel.

Date: 08-21-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/08/1962

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS:

FCH, ARRESTED, VIOLATION OF INCOME TAX LAW

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

N4® 53932 DocId: 32287689

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL, FORM NO. 1

5010-104-02

UNITED

ST

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (159-757)

DATE:

6/8/62

UNSUBS; Local 901, Teamsters Union,

San Juan, Puerto Rico

IMRDA - IM

Re :

San Juan report of SA (A) JOSEPH F. CUNNINGHAM,

dated and captioned as above.

Enclosed for the

Bureau are four copies of a letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above at San Juan for dissemina

tion by the Bureau. Local dissemination of the letterhead

memorandum has been made to the United States Attorney, San Juan

Also enclosed for the Chicago, Miami, Los Angeles,

Washington Field Offices are appropriate number of copies of the

letterhead memorandum for use by those offices.

INFORMANIS:

The first confidential source mentioned in the attachedi

Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, who furnished information to SA A.

ARMSTRONG, JR. on 3/21/62, whose identity should be concealed.

The second confidential source 1s Mr. J. E. BARRIOS,

Investigative Aide, US Postal Inspector's Office, San Juan,

Puerto Rico, who furnished information to SA JOSEPH F. CUNNINGHAM,

It on the dates indicatede 63 / 5 de 18 20. RAFAI ALTAR NA),

Police of Puerto Rico, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, who furnished Infor-

mation on the dates indicated to SAS RICHARD S. BETER and JOSEPH

F. CUNNINGHAM, JR.

- Bureau.

(Enc.

4)

-

Miami (Enc.

1)

- Chicago (Enc, 1)

IT JUN, 1AP19E2

REVISWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE

NATES

- Los Angeles. (Enc. 2)

2

WHO. (Enc. 2)

Prion pu

BELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART:

TOTAL DENIAL

HH 53932

DocId: 32287689

Page 2

---

## Page 3

C

neeply, Please Refer in

File A

UNILED STATES DEPARTMENT OF MUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAT OF INVESTIGATION

Post Office Box 4312

san Juan 21, Puerto Rico

June 8, 1902

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; Local 901,

TEAMSTERS UNION, SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

LABOR MANAGEMENT REPORTING AND

DISCLOSURE ACT -

INVESTIGATIVE MAITER

of Puerto Rico, which was then under close scrutiny, CHAVEZ had

failed to file

an Income Tax Return with the Commonwealth of Puerto

Rico for the calendar year of 1960. In addition, as of that date

source advised that CHAVEZ had failed to file his Income Tax

Return for the year 1961, noting however, that the final deadline

for the filing of same was not until April 16, 1962.

Imparcial"!

, a San Juan dally Spanish language newspaper, carried

an article on page 3, relating that FRANK CHAVEZ, head of the

Teamsters In Puerto Rico, was arrested that date and accused of

violation of the Income Tax Law. This article stated in part,

"FRANK CHAVEZ....was accused by Superior Court Judge GERARDO

CARREIRA MAS with the violation of Section 145 of the Income Tax

Law of Puerto Rico and further that the Judge fixed bond in the

amount of $3,000 for his release on bond.

"In the arrest order that was presented to the Judge

against CHAVEZ, It 1s alleged that during the year 1960 CHAVEZ

received salary and wages in the amount of $14,202.75 but in spite

of this failed to file an Income Tax Return for this period."

The article further indicated that the investigation in

this case was being conducted by Assistant District Attorney MANUEL

LOPEZ CARRILLO and JOSE H, LUCIANO, who submitted the evidence

before the Superior Court.

159-757-50

53932

DocId: 32287689

Page

---

## Page 4

RE: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; LOCAL 901, TEAMSTERS UNION

In the offices of Local 610 of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees

Union, santurce, Puerto Rico, during the early morning hours of

February 8, 1902 and important union records allegedly were

destroyed.

the above confidential source on February 14, 1962 advised

the San Juan Office that he had received Information that the fire

at the office of Local 610, Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union,

Local g01, with the purpose

was caused by the leansters Unto"fires in union offices and in

of establishing the precedent of

this manner the Teamsters headed by FRANK CHAVEZ, Secretary-

Treasurer of Local 901, planned to burn their own offices located

at 800 Figueroa Street, Santurce, Puerto Rico, to prevent the

Teamsters records from

being inspected by the

Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

The same confidential source advised on April 10, 1962

that the reason the books and records of Local 901 never arrived

by mail at the headquarters of the IBT, Washington, D.C., was due

to the fact that they were burned by lUIS I. PAGAN, bookkeepis

Local 901, and LEOPOLDO RAMOS DUCOS, Local 901, organizer.

Information was learned in conversation with LUIS E. PAGAN and

when PAGAN was jokingly told that he had been photographed in the

act of burning the union's records, PAGAN stated thai this was

Impossible as pictures cannot be taken at night.

The source stated at this time that he would attempt to

determine additional details as

to the place and exact date the

records of local 901 were burned, in addition to the identity of any

other individual who might have knowledge of the burning of the

above records.

Source further stated that the records were burned

at the instructions of FRANK CHAVEZ and apparently after the

Federal Grand Jury, San Juan, had Issued a subpoena for same.

The same source was recontacted periodically thereafter

and on May 29, 1962 advised that he had been unable to develop

any information as to the date or exact place where the records

of Local 901 were burned or the identities of other individuals

who might have first hand knowledge of same.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and 1s

loaned to your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

3

HIt

53932

DocId: 32287689

Page 4

---

## Page 5

r.D

"TATE: DEPARTMEVT OF STICE

In Reply: Please Refer i'

File

Post Office Box 4312

san Juan 21, Everto Rico

- June 8, 1962

UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; Local 901,

TEAMSTERS UNION, SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

LABOR MANAGEMENT REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE ACT -

INVESTIGATIVE MATTER

On March 21, 1962 a confidential source advised that

although FRANK CHAVEZ,

the head of Teamsters Local 901, San Juan,

Puerto Rico, had filed an Income Tax Return with the Commonwealth

of puerto Rico, which was then under close scrutiny, CHAVEZ had

failed to file

an Income Tax Return with the Commonwealth of Puerto

Rico for the calendar year of 1960. In addition, as of that date

source advised that CHAVEZ had failed to file his Income Tax

Return for the year 1961, noting however, that the final deadline

for the filing of same was not until April 16, 1962.

It is noted that

the March 26, 1962 edition of "El

Imparcial", a San Juan dally Spanish language newspaper, carried

an article

on page 3,

relating that FRANK CHAVEZ, head of the

Teamsters in Puerto Rico, was arrested that date

and accused of

violation of the Income Tax Lari.

This article stated in part,

"FRANK CHAVEZ... was accused by superior Court Judge GERARDO

CARREIRA MAS with the violation of Section 145 of the Income Tax

Law of Puerto Rico and further that the Judge fixed bond in the

amount of $3,000 for his release on bond.

"In the arrest order that was presented to the Judge

against CHAVEZ, it is alleged that during the year 1960 CHAVEZ

received salary and wages in the amount of $14,202.75 but in spite

of this failed to file an

Income Tax Return for this period."

The article further indicated that the investigation in

this case was being conducted by Assistant District Attorney MANUEL

LOPEZ CARRILLO and JOSE H. LUCIANO, who submitted the evidence

before the superior Court.

NW 53932 DooId: 32287689 Page 5

---

## Page 6

RE: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; LOCAL 901, TEAMSTERS UNION

in the offices of Local 610 of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees

Union, Santurce, Puerto Rico, during the early morning hours of

February 8, 1962 and Important union records allegedly were

destroyed.

the san Juan orce that he had sece tenato that the srised

at the office of Local 610, Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union,

was caused by the Teamsters Union, Local 901, with the purpose

of establishing the precedent of

fires in union offices and in

this manner the Teamsters headed by FRANK CHAVEZ, Secretary-

Treasurer of Local 901, planned to burn their own offices located

at 800 Figueroa Street,

Santurce, Puerto Rico, to prevent the

Teamsters records from being inspected by the

Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

The same confidential source advised on April 10, 1962

that the reason the books and records of local 901 never arrived

by mail at the headquarters of the IBI, Washington, D.C., was due

to the fact that they were burned by LUIS E. PAGAN, bookkeeper,

Local 901, and LEOPOLDO RAMOS DUCOS, Local 901, organizer.

This

Information was learned in conversation with LUIS E. PAGAN and

when PAGAN was jokingly told that he had been photographed in the

act of burning the union's records, PAGAN stated that this was

Impossible as pictures cannot be taken at night.

The source stated at this time that he would attempt to

determine additional details as to the place and exact date the

records of Local 901 were burned, in addition to the identity of any

other individual who might have knowledge of the burning of the

above records.

Source further stated that the records were burned

at the instructions of FRANK CHAVEZ and

apparently after the

Federal Grand Jury, San Juan, had issued a subpoena for same.

The same source was recontacted periodically thereafter

and on May 29, 1962 advised that he had been unable to develop

any information as to the date or exact place where the records

of Local 901 were burned or the identities of other individuals

who might have first hand knowledge of same.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and 1s

loaned to your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

3

NW 53932 DocId: 32287689

Page 6

---

