# docid-32157668

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10125-10102

RECORD_SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-1639-4198. 4199

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. SF

DIRECTOR. FBI

Released under the John

= Kennation Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

DATE: 01/30/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-1063

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/12/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

'UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4) -

COMMENTS:

INCLUDES LHM

HH 54463

DocId: 32157668

Page

1

---

## Page 2

1/30/64

AIRTIL

AIR MAIL

=

TO

:

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-24016)

SAC SAN FRANCISCO (44-494)

SUBULCT:

JACK L. RUBY,

aka.;

LEE MARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM (DECEASED)

CK

(00: Dallas)

DEFENSL ASSOCIATE FOR THE RUBY TRIAL

3-1-93 9030/69T

In losed here to steine out the inebration

contained in San Francisco file 100-33976, Bufile 100-379424,

concernito BROMBERG:

Investigation has never placed BROMBERG in Conmunist

Färty membership.

U. S. Attorney CECIL F. POOLE, San Francisco,.

advised

SAC CURTIS

0. LYNUM on 1/29/64 that a Dr. WALTER BROMBERG had

been listed in the newspapers as one of the psychiatrists

3 who

nave been used by the defense in connection with the hearings

in the RUBY case at Dallas, Texas.

USA POOLE advised that he

did not have the specific information concerning BROMBERG but

that he recalled BROMBERG had a questionable background and

he, POOLE, lad conveyed this nonspecific information to Mr. RILEY,

a Departmental assistant.

lie had been unable to give Mr. RILEY any specific

details other than that he recalled that there was some scandal

in connection with Dr. BROMBERE leaving Sacramento and that it

that BROMBERG went to New York to be with a mistress.

3 - Bureau (Encls. 5)

"1-

Dalläs

(44-1539) (Ench. E5

2 - San Francisco (44-494)

(1 - 100-33976)

1639-4199

REXCO DIRT

CJM:ab

(6)

F31-CALLAS

HH 54463

DocId: 32157668

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 44-494

GJN : ab

Sacramento Resident Agents, through established

sources and without making any inquiry, determined that Dr

BROMBERG and his wife, ESTHER, have been in Sacramento, Calif.,

since September,

1948.

In 1956 he was self-employed as a

physician at 2720. Capitol Ave: and reported a

His wife reported a salary of $415 per month salary of $13,000

as a social worker

for the State of California. He formerly resided in Reno, Nev.

BROMBERG Left Sacramento. in about. January,

1963; for New York

City, to obtain further schooling.

severa. years ago, a nunse (igentity unknown) from

Napà, Califo, made a complaint that Dr. BROMBERG conducted

"sex parties" in which he struck women companions with a whip

The first source mentioned in the LiM is the City

Civil Service records, Sacramento, Calif. The second source

is SE 1950-S.

The above and the enclosed LiM is for the information

of the Bureau and Dallas in the event that the Bureau desires

to instruct the SAC, Dallas, to convey this information to the

prosecuting attorney in Dallas County.

ww 54463 DocId:32157668 Page 3

---

