# docid-32330681

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90091-10112

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-636-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1968

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330681

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992*44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: • 11-14-2017

DI 166-102

Truck Company, residence 2715 Ellis, noting that he is reportedly

a bettor.

Will interview him in detail as to any bets he placed

with MATTHEWS or GEBRON, where such bets were placed and how

collections were made.

Determine where COBB called to place his

bets.

"Will interview BILLIE D. ALEXANDER,

employed at

Peterbilt Truck Company, residing at 2310 Chestnut, noting calls

were

made to his home from phones available to MATTHEWS and GEBRON.

Interview ALEXANDER along the same lines as for COBB:

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. I. Will continue to check subject's

bookmaking location.

2. Will at the telephone company bring up to date

review of telephone toll records on MATTHEWS and GEBRON.

3.

Will determine through surveillance exact connection

if possible of GEBRON's part with MATTHEWS in the bookmaking

operation.

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 10/4/68, DL 275-C-TE advised that GEBRON was

still working with MATTHEWS but was staying away from the apartment

at 5315 Columbia Avenue, as he is scared to death of the

local police making a raid and getting caught. From what TE

could learn GEBRON is working on the outside as runner and collec-

tor.

-B-

Cover

Page

DocId: 32330681

Page 2

---

