# docid-32334304

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10010

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3395-115

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1991

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/18/1965

4

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

FD-306

v9.l

HH 53074

DocId: 32334304

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD 306 (3/21/58)

Dats received

1/18/65

Received fros (name or symbol #)

NO 1271-R•

Method of delivery

In person, orally

Dictate 1/19/65

Date of Report

1/25/65

Date of activity

Transcribed 1/25/65

Authenticated

By IntonaRt orally refused to sign

1/17/65

Briet description of activity or materia.

Contact with Arvis Warner re Minute

Received by

SA STEPHEN I,

CALLENDER

Renaris:

+170E A

• 7e

1662-3395 (Minutenen

1-157-2926 (ARVIS WARNER)

1-157-2934) (ROBERT T. RESTER)

2-157-3351

(PAUL. COONE)

1-157-2930 (EDDIE DUBISSON)

I-157-3005) (H. A. GOINGS,

8: 157-2996

(SIDNEY ANGUST

11573428

(ONEAL, JONES)

SR.)

WARNER!

SMC: gmi

(9)

grid

File Were origthal ta

located if not attached

170-20A -74

—..

In the

event any

Information in this

report is to be diese-

minated outside the

Bureau, it should be

properly paraphrased

in order to fully

protect informan

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITILD

DATE 12/21 82BY SP&BIA/Or

211.496

h3.30e!

115

Searched

Indexed

sertalized filed

JAN 25 1965

FBX - New Orleans

1H 53074 DocId: 32334304 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 170-20A/ git

On January 11, 1965, PAUL COONE, & menher of the

Original Knights of the Ku Nur Kian (OKKKK, Bogalusa, &s

well as & member of the Minutenen at Bogalusa, appeared at

the residence of ARVIS. HARNER. COONE is described as white

male, 35 years old, 5'10", 230 pounds, light brown heir,

heaty bulld, mediun complesion. Also at the residence of

WARNER WAS ROBERT T. RESTER, the City Attorney of Bogaluse,

Iso, and aiso a member of the OKKKK. RESTER waS In the

company of a girl by the name of GLINDA DUBISSON, the daughter

Of EDDIE DUBISSON and she is about 20 years old and fron

the conversation it was apparent that RESTER has been

dating this g1r1.

A short time thereafter, RESTER and this girl along

WIth RESTER's ind children, Left the WARNER residence.

WARNER Stated that ALBERT APPINHITE had b9G2

contacted rogerding the minutener and APPINEITE stated

that he was going to attempt to start & Minutenen Unit with

four incluiduals, the identity or these low indirduals ye

not revealed.

WARNER sTated Gas: ROBERT T. RESTER as well 1s

EDDIE DUBISSON ANd H. A. GOINGS, SR., hai been contacted to

JOIN WARNER & MInUtEnen Dhit. BOth RESTER and GOINGS had

indicated that they would have to give some thought belore

2

HH 53074 DocId: 32334304

Page

---

## Page 4

NO 170-20A/ gI

Joining, however, DUBISSON expressed an interest in Joining.

wARNER stated that the recent plan to have & second newspaper

published in Bogalusa, Lan, as conpetition for the "Bogalusa

Daily News" had fallen through. WARNER stated that his

Minutenen Unit would hold their next meeting on 1/19/65, but

that hid son GUSSIE WARNER and O'NEAL JONES, who are members

would not be able to attend inasmuch as these two individuals

have had to attend a meeting and receive instructions which

que given to the Auxillary Police of the Bogalusa PD, of

malch they are nembers.

wArNER stated that alter the meeting on 1/19/65,

members of his Unit would go to the Office of Attorney BASCO

TALLEY on Columbia st. He said that they would attach a

Iine plece of mire to the back door handle and run this wire

to &

trane bon approximately treet away which would either

contain gravel or a dead animal and that this bor would be

covered with tar paper. MARNER stated that this would be

done to harass BASCON TALLEY because when he cones to his

office on the following day, he would enter the back door

is his noral ouston and on approaching this door would

see the wire running from the handle to a frame bos

and would

tink that the wire was attached to some explosive device.

3

HH 53074 DocId: 32334304

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 170-204/ gud

As & result, It was expected TAlLEY would contact the local

police and fire department and there would be & lot of

confusion around TALLEY's office. WARNER stated that members

of his unit would also fill the crack between the door

and the door jam at the entrance to the rear of his

office with glue so that it would make it difficult to

open this door.

4s7:

HH 53074

DocId: 32334304

Page

5

---

