# docid-32348429

## Page 1

Date: 12/16/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10069-10076

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released

under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act 01 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note] "

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

16-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE: CURRENT STATUS OF THE SERVICE DUVALIER

DATE: 07/14/1970

PAGES:

SUBJECTS : PRESIDENTIAL

INVESTIGATIVE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/93:

COMMENTS: JFK14 : F31: 1993.07.14.16:46:00:340480 : NO

ATTACHMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10069-10076

NH 53199 DoeId:32348429

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 1 OF

2 PAGES

SECRET

NNON1 NO

0A/ 01614

COUNTRY

DOt

SUADE 21

Haiti

Mid-July 1970

Current Status

of: the

Service Duvalier (SD)

ACO

SOURCE

Haiti, Port au Prince (14 July 1970)

O NO

KTP-1430

A former Haitian government employee who hes che

confidence of many members of the luvaller government.

His reporting has been accurate since 1963

He received

the information from a Haltien military officer who 1s

opposed to Duvalier, who has access to the files of a

Haitian Intelligence Service, and who has furnished

reliable information. ?

1. As of mid-July 1970, the presidential Investigative

service, Service luveller, hed gone througa Mad trai

another of its

crensformations. Formerly headed by Eloia

and then Luc

Destr, it ie now liceded by four members

of approximately co-qual rank.

They are Col. Breton

Claude, Commander of the Desalines Battalion;

Arcelafe, Jacques

rour

*St. -Louls.

Chairman of the Chenher of Deputies. Luc Desir and Vermond

i ul In, hoth longtime membere of the SD, continue to hold

their Jobs, but their influence hes declined and neither

one han

men appears active at the present time.

The investigative

Malberteg.c 1

a i d 1

Mla

2.

rixcept

for the Investigation of che 24 April Coast

card revolt, which is lein, personally handled by Claude,

Cambronne, Fourcend and St. Louis, the SD has received no

Inveattrative asaignments in recent montha.

The SD offices,

st111 located in the National Palece, have been more or

less vecant in recent months as the focus ot its work has

shtfted to the Desalines Barracks.

NO DREIGN DISSIMI

TIRE

CARD

REPRODUGTIO

06947

53199 DocId: 32348429 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Page 2 of 2 pages

(Field Comment. The always amorphous structure

of the SD appears to have been further confused by the

appointment of investigatine commisgions to look into

the Coast Cuard revolt and the earlier errests of Col.

Kesner

Blain, Quartermaster of the Haitian Armed

Forces, Clemard Joseph Charles, President of the

Commercial Bank of Haiti; and others.

It seems 11kely

that the SD as formerly constituted has been allowed to

1le dormant with Claude, Cambronne, Fourcand and St. Louis

taking over the politically sensitive investigations

outside the framework of the SD.

4.

Field Dissent

State, Defatt, CINCSO.

santa Dontinon)

NO FORSICN DISSIM

H1H 53

DocId: 32348429

Page 3

PRODUETIONE

---

