# docid-32295935

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10216-10211

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/22/1961

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45855

DocId: 32295935

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1

010-104-01

UNITED STATES (

FERNMENT

Memoraridum CONFIDENTIAL

TO:.

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

ATTENTION LIAISON DIVISION

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-36)

ATE IXBORLATTOR CONTAINED

DATE:

2/22/61

BUT THINK SHOWN

ORHEANISE

SUBJECT:

carlos Marcella,

Cabreo Minacore,

Carlos M. Minacore,

ANTI-RACKETEERING

• "The Little Man"

5к)

DAOR

_ United States Treasury Department, Internal Revenue

Service,

and the United States Treasury Department, United

W:

ess

Bostocks

N7032 MO2IA1

States

Narcotics Bureau.

The purpose of this letter 1s to request the

Erlafson Division to co-ordinate the various aspects of the

investigation by these agencies of information furnished by

Tan inmate of the United States Penitentiary,

OTHER 2,

Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.

30

The following is a brief summary of MARCELLO's immi-

gration status:

Records of the Immigration and Naturalization

Serice reflect that CARLOS MARCELLO was born in Roccamena

Gingenti, Tunis, North Africa, on February 6, 1910. His

father was GUISEPPE MINACORE, aka., JOSEPH MARCELLO, and his

IT motber was LUIGIA MINACORE, aka.,

LOUISE MARCELLO.

He entered

Othe United States aboard the SS LIGURIA, on November 7, 1910.

He 18 married to JACQUELINE TEDARO MARCELLO, a native-bern

American citizen, and they" have four children.

MARCELLO was subject to deportation orders, warrant

Issued December 30, 1952, and

affirmed June

and he

as arrested on this deportation order Junes

Section 1251A11, Title

depo tatte

, United states Code

B11953,

under

GHAE 21

BECU -

Bureau,

to 3-it

- New

ZEHIGAG,NO

3/10/61

92997900807

RLK

/tal

SE: RELEASE BY FULL

RELEASE IN RAT eN

TOTAL DENAL®

CONFIDENTIAL

CRIM

HW

45855 DocId: 32295935

Page 2

4

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL.

NO 92-36

MARCELLO was convicted of violation of the Marijuana'

Tax Act in United States District Court, New Orleans, Louisiana,

October 29, 1938.

He was sentenced to one year and one day

in the United States Penitentiary.

MARCELLO's conviction was

based upon the sale of 63= ounces

of marijuana December 6, 1937,

and 316z ounces of marijuana

December 15, 1937, to GILMORE

FAILOR, Agent, United States

Narcotics Bureau, New Orleans,

Louisiana.

MARCELLO has been the subject of innumerable suits

and appeals through the Immigration and Naturalization Service

and through the United States District Court and on May 3, 1955,

the United States Supreme Court affirmed MARCELLO's deporta-

tion and on August 81955, he surrendered to the Immigration

and Naturalization Service.

On August 9, 1955, the Italian Consul, City of

New Orleans, requested the return of MARCELLO's passport and

on December 16, 1955, Judge HUGO BLACK, United States Supreme

court, ordered MARCELLO's release on $10,000 bond.

This bond has subsequently been reduced to a

parole agreement.

On February 7, 1950, informant

of

New Orleans furnished information that CARL NOLL had

obtained citizenship papers (apparently birth certificate)

in CARLOS MARCELLO's true name MINACORE, in Guatemala.

(This information was disseminated to Immigration and

Naturalization Service March 21, 1958.)

CARL IRVING NOLL-was interviewed by Investigator

J. MARVIN HOSTEPTER, United States Immigration and Naturali-

zation Service, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and a copy. of

this report was furnished to New Orleans by Bureau letter

of February 9, 1960.

NoLL claimed that, through mutual friends in

New Orleans, Louisiana, he met one JUHIO MERIDA, an

employee

nof the Consul General Office for Guatemala in New Orleans,

and,

through this source, he became friendly with EDUARDO

RODRIGUEZ GENIS, who was

Ministro De Gubernacion and ANTONIO

VALADERES, Attorney for the Government of Guatemala. NOLL

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

HW

45855 DocId: 32295935 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

NO 92-36

CONFIDENTIAL

JAITИ309400

Contact should be established with the Immigration

and Naturalization Service to determine if that Agency has

interviewed or has considered interviewing of VALADERES and

GENIS in Guatemala.

Immigration should also be contacted to

determine if efforts have been made to locate the alleged

birth records which may possibly exist in a village outside

Guatemala City.

From both Agencies, it should be-determined if the

bank records of the Banko De Nationale show that MARCELLO

has transferred funds to Guatemala City.

The State Department should be contacted to deter-

mine if Article 13 of the Franco -Italian Consular Convention

of September 28, 1896

exists and if this Treaty would estab-

1ish MARCELLO's Italian catizenship.

The current status of the Civil Suit as it exists

in Italy should also be determined from the State Department

or from Bureau Leget of Rome.

In view of the current importance of the investigation

Of MARCELLO, the Bureau's Liaison Section is requested to deter-

mine the Agency which will conduct investigation at Guatemala

City and vicinity to either confirm or refute the information

furnished by CARL NOLL. It is entirely possible that either

Immigration Service or

the Narcotic Service has completed, or

1s presently endeavoring to complete, this investigation and

before efforts are made by the Bureau to obtain this informa-

tion, It is believed that above Agencies should be contacted

in order to prevent duplication of investigation efforts and

possible interference by the FBi In a matter which is pin trily

within the jürisdiction of other Government Agencies.

event the other Agencies have not undertaken this phase of

the investigation of MARCELLO based upon information furnished

by NOLL, it is recommended that the Bureau request appropriate

sources

in Guatemala to obtain the information outlined above.

C)

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL

HW

45855 DocId:32295935 Page 4

---

