# docid-32181163

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JIN HODADONNA I LUIY DID ILLIVI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10233-10373

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-321

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

FERRIS. NATHAN L.

TO: LEG. MX

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1964

PAGES:

1

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, ADVICE, POSTCARD

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/07/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32181163 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released uniTE

• Aaл 1.

DATE: 11-l0x49Z7

Memorandum

TO

FROM

CONG DENTAL

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702)

SA NATHAN L. FERRIS

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R - CUBA

MES SATORMATTON CONTINED

POPSTN

ASSTETED EXCESS

HOWN

074

ASE.

992

T79 050

DATE: 2/24/64

Classifien

Declassify on: DAut

On 2/18/64,

MEX-18 and MEX-19 advised that

they did not believe

that CHARLES SMALL handled imported

Japanese items in his store similar to the bracelet portrayed

in the picture received from the Bureau.

They also advised

that they did not recall having seen postcards on sale in

his store. They stated, however, that they would check

his store again and also check known outlets of Japanese

goods in Mexico which, according to them, were four in

number

-On 2/19/64, EMEX-18 and MEX-19Xorally advised

the writer that they

had carefully reviewed all of the

bracelets on stock in CHARLES SMALL's store and none of

them was of Japanese origin or appeared similar in any

way to the bracelet in the photograph. They also verified

their observation that SMALL does not sell postcards

Subsequently informants visited the four outlets

known to them as handling Japanese imported goods in

Mexico City and after reviewing the jewelry on sale in

those stores advised that nore of the stores handled the

type of jewelry pictured in the photographs received from

the Bureau.

Informants pointed out that the postcards were

made by Fischgrund, one of the two largest manufacturers

of postcards in Mexico whose products are on sale in a

great number of stores and therefore no effort to trace

the cards believed to have been purchased by OSWALD would

be

feasible

4)

105-3702

-*134-10A

CLASSIFIED

13042 PWT AL

400-1535 (C. Small) DECLASS 13/

105-3302-321

DADA -

SEARCHED

_INDEXED .

NLF: jhk

SERIALIZED AA FILED Li

(3)

FFB 2 4 1964

IF13L

TEK/RM Le

LEGAL ATTACHE • MEXICO

EXCEL

ISS EXT

REASON-FCIM

DATE OF RESTOW

CONG

DECLASSIRED PA. 5668 SL0/GCL

ON 9/4/46..

DocId: 32181163 Page 2

---

