# docid-32291417

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10207-10193

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-12-399

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/08/1963

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

CIP, INVEST, GAMBLING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291417 Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GO**RMENT

Memorane m

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

2/8/63

FROM .. :

SAC, DALLAS (94-265)

SUBJECT:

INTERVIEW PROGRAM

PecaRim

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Bureau airtel to Albany, 5/7/62 and Dallas letter

to Bureau, 1/10/63.

County Jail, Abilene,

He requested the information he was about to furnish be kept

strictly confidential and his identity be protected. He ad-

mitted he had been a gambler in the Snyder, Texas, area for

about three years, having started as a "sit-in" man to throw

various games of cards to favorable parties and to take suckers.

One PINKEY RODEN of Odessa, Texas, became interested in him

and offered to place him on the "in" with the gambling

VALENTINE said RODEN is known to

have manyyinterests throughout the country from which sources

the capital originates for laying off the bets. He stated he

had been approached and was told that whatever he needed would

be furnished to him in the way of monetary funds.

He claimed

he is finished with this type of work due to his wife inter-

ceding and giving him the choice of keeping her or his gambling

activities.

He advised he acted as the messegger for a number

of thugs traveling through the country whose names he did

. not

desire to disclose. He knew that RODEN had some highly

influential people backing him in this venture, both in and

out of the state.

Further contact contemplated with VALENTINE

for additional information re above matter.

On 2/4/63,

interviewed by Bureau

Agents.

He had been previoudly identified

as a gambler in the investigation of SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLRAIS

(Dallas 162-129).

He appeared cordial and stated he would

cooperate with the FBII in any way he could.

He furnished

pertinent information concerning gambling activities in Dallas

and stated he, was agreeable to furnish such information in the

future on a

confidential basis.

contact.

A new 137 case, regarding

has been opened by Dallas as a resuit

of the above

1| 35 Whol3

9-12-399

1 - Dallas

(162รท129)

1 - Dallas" (165-79)-

1 - Dallas

(165-68)

1 - Dallas

(94-265)

1 - Dallas

(94-49)

CTB: rmb

(8)

FEB 14 1963

EX. - 116

6 2 FEB 20 1963

08:0J-10123

OTHER 4

NW 45760 DocId: 32291417

Page 2

---

