# docid-32570078

## Page 1

Feediner.

1-29-8K

eleased under the Joh

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54464 Date:

10-11-2017

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Via

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE -/1-455 SPE

FBI

Date:

7/7/65

(Type in plain text or code)

ides

(Prioriey). REC

63

FROM

SUBJECT:

--.

:

DIRECTOR,

FET (105.584)

SAC, SAT TUAN (200-44) 10)

ANTI-PEDAL. CASURO AGILITIRE

COBA

Enciosed for the Buneau, Miami and New York are nine,

two and tno coplacs respectively:

letterhead menorandum

dated and captioned as above, suitabie for dissemination.

S-T I.- 1 IS MAXIMO SORONDO QUINTANA, Who requested that

his identity be concealer.

San Juan will maintain contact with Cuban exile

leaders in Puerto Rico and report all information ebtained

relating to the lominican Republic and the Cuban exile groups

which have had or do have interests there.

Bureau (Encis. 9) (RM)

(1- 109-12-211)

(DOMSIT)

3 XEROX Cipies mande

2 - Miami (105-1742)

(Encls. 2) (RM)

2

New York (105-35253) (Encls. 2) (RM)

14 - San Juan

(1 - 105-5310) (CONSEJO

1-105-6133)

(SNFE)

105-6323)

(COM L)

97-18)

( DOMS TT

'ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for into.

134-800)

(VARONA)

134-814)

ATILA)

105-6242)

(TURE )

105-3367

105- 3354)

DRE)

REC- 63

MDC

105-5400)

(MRR)

105-7173

(CASADO)

109-584 1 085-

= 134-New)

"SORONDO

ICC-05-MIGUELATiCA LUNA PEREZ

11 JUL

JUL 15)

Sent

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

(22205

S Aproyed:

* O AUG 5

Special

Agent in

1965

HH

54464

DooId: 32570078

Page 1

NAT.

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

_IED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Juan, Puerto Rico

July 7, 1965

ANI-PEDEL, GASTRO ACTIVITIES

ONETINAL SECUELEE-CURS

Dia Tely I: 1965, SE Pul, = Cubon exile leader in

Puerto Rico with

in the Dominican Republic: but

with whom insarricions contact nas been bad to deterare his

intermation concerning

Cuban exis acttrities in Pastco Rico and doe Dominican

Repubiio:

Sounds advisod that Maximon

sorundo Cuintana,

former represeatative of she cuban.

Revolutionary-Council a

Brazim 7952,

and Colonia

In 1063.

had been in Sente

about eptembei, 1953;

when Spronac and. a triend, Frank

Domingo: Dog nican Mountie, since cona Gandanilla, became

coordinators for Cuban exile groups in

Varona is sales manager for the Leon Tobacce Company

in

Santo Domingo, puasently living in Miami, Mande

plans to return so

Santo Domingo in the very near future.

Jom. Kep

Source advised chat Sorondo was the Cuban exil

contact with Colonel Juan solch and General Miguel Atila

Luna

Perez of the Dominicah Government.

Sorondo was

responsible for bases of operation being established

for

the Segundo Frente Nacional Del Escambray (Second National

Front of the Escambray) (SNFE) and worked closely with

Cecillo Vazquez Gomez of the SNFE in Santo Domingo.

Source advised that Sorondo was responsible for

the coordination between the Dominican Government and

estäblishment of bases for the Directorio Revolucionario

Estudantil (Student Revolutionary Directorate) (DRE),

Movimiento Democratico Cristiano (Democratis Christian

Movement) (MDC), led by Laureano

Batista Falla,

XEROX

JUL 15\ 1965

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERFIN IS UNCLASSIFIED* 241, 326

DATE 6/25/85

_BY 5P6 BJA/AAL

ENCLOSURE

109-584-4260

| 1H 54464 DocId:32570078 Page 2

---

