# docid-32585591

## Page 1

Date : 05/20/96

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10203-10067

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 92-3171-2518

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE. : 01/16/75

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : SGI, ACT, TRA, MX, CG, IL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 2, 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/20/96

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

74 45792

DooId: 32585591

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

For)

Assoc. Dir.

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEE REVERSE

Dep.-A.P.-Adm...

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

SIDE FOR

1 281510

Asst. Dif.:

CLASSIFICATIONmin.

ACTION

Comp.

CONFIDEN HAL

TELCTYPE

Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

5:31 PM NITEL 1/ 16/75 MJD

CLASSTATE DECIATONS FINAGIZED

Gen. Inv. -

BY DEPARIZAEND R

VIDY COMMITTEE (DRC

Ident.

Inspection

1018/85

Intell

TO

DIREeTOR, FBI (92-3171)

DATEVR

Laboratory

FROM

Spec.

LEGAI, MEXICO CITY (92-132

Trainine

DECLASSIFIM BY S

22696

SAMUEL

• GIANCANA, AXAS ARTEU

APPROPPTATE MENCIES

Telephone

Director Sec'y

AND FIMLD OFFI

REBUCAR JANUARY 8, 1975. U

ADVISOD PY ROL

ST,TP(5) 07

DAIT

SOURCE IN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION WHO

HAS

FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN THE

PAST ADVISED THAT THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF

GOVERNMENI RECEIVED

REPORT THAT SUBJECT HAD RETURNED TO •

CUERNAVACA AND INSTRUCTED THAT INVESTIGATION BE CONDUCTED IO

DETERMINE IF THERE WAS ANY TRUTH TO THIS REPORT CASIN

Masemes

MEXICAN IMMIGRATION IS INVESTIGATING THE REPORT BUT CONSIDERS

THAT

SUBJECT HAS NOI RETURNED IO CUERNAVACA BASED ON INVESTIGATION!

TO DATE CA) (US

DEA, MEXICO CITY, ALSO RELAYED A REPORI THAI SUBJECT HAD

RETURNED TO CUERNAVACA SUI HAD NO DOCUMENTAL I GENIUSED

FOR THIS REPORI. A U

OTHENISE

HERE SHOWN

SUBJECT OBVIOUSLY WAS IN CHICAGO DECEMBER 17, 1974. U

DADR

Ong:

Declassty

4162/81

END PAGE ONE

REVIEWED BY FAKIR ASK FORES

RHASON-FCIM

DATE

OF

RELEASE IN FULLY 5

RELEASE IN BARTOURS

151 JF

F18%

'EXa

D423

28 1975

JAN 17 1975

1.259

CON

NW 45792 DooId: 32585591

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MEX 92-13

sis,

COMLIDOIZINT

PAGE TWO

PETITIONS FILED ON BEHALF OF SUBJECT WITH MEXICAN IMMIGRATION•

IT HAD BEEN REPORTED IHAT THESE WERE FILED BY THE ATTORNEY

JORGE CASTILLO BUT HIS IDENTITY DOES NOT APPEAR ON THESE

DOCUMENTS. A CU)

ABOVE QUOTED SOURCE ADVISED THAI A NUMBER OF OFFICIALS OF

MEXICAN IMMIGRATION ARE AWARE THAT CASTILLO WAS THE ATTORNEY FOR

THE SUBJECT. HOWEVER, HE DOUBIED THAI ANY OF THESE OFFICERS

WOULD BE PERMITTED TO TESTIFY AS TO THIS INFORMATION.

HE NOTED THAT CASTILLO CAME TO THE OFFICES OF MEXICAN IMMIGRATION

IN SEPFERENAIIGO OF THE SUBUSCE AS TUE LIVE OF HIS DEPRATIONGE LEN

SUBJECT'S IMMIGRATION FILE IS RESTRICTED BUT SOURCE IS

ATTEMPTING TO REVIEW IT IO DETERMINE IF CASTILLO APPEARS ANYWHERE

THEREIN AS ATTORNEY OF RECORD

оси)

BUREAU REQUESTED- TO ADVISE SAC, CHICAGO • L

END

HH 45792 DocId: 32585591 Page 3

---

