# docid-32578799

## Page 1

FD 36 | Rev. 12-13-56)

SECRET

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date:

3/31/64

CIA HAS NO ODISCTION TO

ON AN9/OR

(Type in plain text or code)

RaLL

SA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMEN AS SANITIZI

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

+78 2128/97 1771

INFORMARION CONTAINED

EN TE UNCLASSIFIED

MISHE SHOWN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4110)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-41643) (P)

Declassit on: 0u

RECe

95

SUBJECT:

OTHERWISE

"MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)

IS-CUBA

NM

(00: MIAMI)

ziti

Re Bureau airtel to Miami, 3/11/64, with enclosure from

EGIA, dated 3/4/64, captioned "Plans

of the Movimiento Democrata

Cristiano (MDC) to sink merchant vessel loading or unloading

oil in a Cuban port" Zand Bureau airtel to NY dated 3/19/64

captioned as above.

Enclosed herewith for the information of the Bureau

are 12 copies of IHM setting forth the results of interviews

conducted in above captioned subject matter.

There are enclosed for Miami 10 copies of LHM for

local dissemination

toxCIA& ONI, G-2, INS, Odi, Border Patrol,

customs, Coast Guard and State Department, Coordinator of

-Cuban Affairs.

NY T=1 In enclosed LIM IS CIA. (3)(u)

C*71

3-Bureau

(97-4110) (Encs.12)

(RM)

1-Miami

8897-328)

1- NeWE

York

1

-York

103-323331106

(AM,

- 95

105-35253)

L5.DIV.TDUA/INS,

Cony 10%CTAgState/

10 APA S

FJO: EG

(7)

NI/OST/ACSI CUSTOAS COASt GUARdSE

by routing

for info.

Date 1/2104

.by....

99

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

SECRET

_M

STE

SIDE WOR

LASSIFICATIO

ACTION

NW 45872 DocId: 32578799

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1390301

SECRET

NY 105-41643

The CIA source is ROBERI GRANVILLE HENRIQUESTS)

interviewed in the NYO on 3/23/64 in the presence of CIA agent

HORACE GOELET. Discrepancies between original information

as furnished by CIA and information contained in enclosed LHM

were resolved in the presence of GRANVILLELand GOELET in favor

of information as set forth in enclosed IHM. (E

(5)

ROBERT GRANVILLE HENRIQUES obtains his information

concerning activities of the MDC FrOM GASPAR VILATO, JR (A)CES)

During the interview conducted with GASPAR VILATO, JR.

he gave every indication of being sincere and of giving an

honest opinion of the MDC as he saw the organization.

VILATO, during the interview, was openly critical

of the CIA for its past blunders regarding Cuba.

He claimed

these exiles

ClA, and in some instances, CIA would go to the extent of

harassing certain exile Cuban organizations which did not do

as CIA wanted and in this regard indicated that the MDC has

been

• harassed

: in the past for disagreements with CIA.

The enclosed LHM has been classified "Confidential"

because it contains information so classified by CIA ye) (u)

The NYO contemplates no further investigation in

this matter but will remain alert for activities of the MdC.

T320221

SECRET

HH 45872

DocId: 32578799

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNFIDENTIAL

- 1A/30RЛ03

SAG,

Miant (97-328)

Derator, Bie 99

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC)

IS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

- Nasca

4-7-64

CIA HAS NO ORUSCTON 3O

DECLEON:

IN THIS DOCUMENT GMB 725/9

(PARAZ)

RelVairtel 3-31-64 with enclosure, copy of which

was designated for your office.

Enclosure indicates captioned group has been using

& Key in the Bahamas for training purposes and for storing

equipment and supplies:

Check appropriate sources and informants

in an effort to identify this Key and advise Bureau in a forn

suitable for dissemination.

1 - New York

(105-41643)

VHN: pab

(5)

NOTE:

If this information is obtained, consideration will be

given to furnishing it to British authorities. (C)

MAILED 4

APR - 01964

COMM-FBI

ATT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERBIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPI WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Classified by S16 BTAIGUL

Declassify on: 08008/2/85

SP8-Me/rude 511294(954)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

56 APR 13419647

NW 45872 DooId: 32578799

CONFIDENTIAI

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 3

---

