# docid-32300931

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-10277-10266

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-921

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/05/1968

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JRO, BKG, REL, ASSOC, OC, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300931

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTION

MAR 5

1968

TELETYPE

FA21)

9-1

FBI CHICAGO

432PM DEFERRED 3/5/68 JLS

TO DIRECTOR AND LOS ANGELES

FROM CHICAGO (92-399) 3P

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Cong

Mr.

felt

Mr.

Gals,

Mr.

. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel.

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Misa Gandy

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR. 00 LOS ANGELES.

AS BUREAU AND LOS ANGELES AWARE, NAME OF ONE JOSEPH

EVANGELISTA APPEARED ON AFFIDAVIT IN NINETEEN THIRTY SIX AS

WITNESS TO BIRTH OF ROSELLI UNDER THAT NAME IN CHICAGO IN

NINETEEN ZERO FIVE. INVESTIGATION HAS DETERMINED THIS INFO

TO BE FALSE.

ALTHOUGH REPEATED INTERVIEWS WITH SONS OF JOSEPH

EVANGELISTA WERE UNSUCCESSFUL IN DEVELOPING ANY INDICATION AS

TO WHY NAME OF JOSEPH EVANGELISTA WOULD BE CHOSEN AS ABOVE WITNESS,

CONTACT WAS MADE MARCH FIVE INSTANI WITH FORMER CG SIX FOUR NINE

EIGHT - CTE, A LEADING ITALIAN POLITICIAN AND PUBLIC OFFICIAL IN

CHICAGO WHOSE WARD BOUNDARY IS ACROSS STREET FROM EVANGELISTA

REALTY CO.

END PAGE ONE

46. 4 92=3267-921

18 MAR & 1968

MART 3 1968

DocId: 32300931 Page 2

---

