# docid-32160409

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10139-10110

RECORD SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

44-974-171

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS. MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/06/1963

PAGES: 301

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-658

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/09/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

IW 45658 DocId: 32160409 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

AND HARVEY OSWALD,

Aka as

(DECEASED) - VICTIM

TE

02/6/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/25/63 - 12/4/6;

REPORT MADE BY

TYI

SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

CR

REFERENCE: Report of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS dated 11/30/63

at Dallas.

ANT. INFCRUACICH CONTAINED *

HEREIN IS UECTISATOTED LACEPT

Cinees

6803 last ate

WARE SHOWN OFERISE. "

IBADS

Declassily on: ONDR JER

Ou Pas GI IM, 0, 4766,

All leads are being set out by tell send telephone.

Copies are furnished of this report to Chicago, Detroit,

New Orleans and New York for Information in veew of investiga

tion being conducted by those offices.

ADMINISTRATIVE

No dissemination will be made outside the Bureau

except on Bureau Instructions.

This report contains no interviews with news madia

or police representatives who were present at the shooting of

OSWALD by RUBY on 11/24/63. These will be incorporated in a

subsequent report.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

5 - Bureau (44-24016)

- Chicago. (44-645)

info

• Detroit (44-563) (1nfo

- New Orleans (44-2064) (1nfo)

- New York (44-974) (info)

- Dallas (44-1639)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACKS BeLON

44-93

SEARCHED

INDEXED

-171

SERIALIZED

FILM

1/71 1 1963

FBI - NEW YOR!

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY....

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD...

HOW FWD.

SY..

NOTATIONS

pent soto

Dages declassification indentle a

(JFK) 424/96

CLASCICICN BY S668 SAIGEL

DECLASSIFY UN: 25X A)(6)

NW 45658 DocId: 32160409 Page 2

---

## Page 3

•IA 44-895

EJK : mjg

2

RONNIE SCALIAR, TIMMY WELCH and NANCY SINATRA, daughter of

FRANK SINATRA.(@ 4

on 9/19/63, IA 4429-C in discussing MAX WEINBERG,

designated as Top Jewel Theft subject, advised SAS DONALD

A. SCHLAEFER, and WILLIE R. WHITE and

Supervisor CHESTER

*. SI. VINCENT, that WEINGERG's daughter is presently employeo

as a secretary for Reprise Records owned by FRANK SINATRA.

She received this job through a distributor, MEL (LNU).

LA 4429-C further advised that he had heard that

people in the Reprise office were calling all over the

country and placing large bets.

No details or names

relative to this type of activity were available to LA 4429-C.

On 6/28/63, MICHAEL SHORE of Reprise Records,

1347 Cahuenga, Los Angeles,

California, Telephone No.

HỌ 6-8211, advised SAA CHARLES E. STINE that he had seen

publicity in the Los Angeles papers concerning the conviction

of MARVIN R. COLE on Obstruction of Justice charges:

He

commented that he had known COLE for a long time and that

"MARVIN COLE IS DOC STACHER's boy"

SHORE stated that he

had been, in some measure, responsible for starting COLE

out in business in New York City a number of years ago.

He indicated that on one occasion he had loaned money to

COLE in order that COLE might buy points in the Fremont

Hotel and Gambling Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada.

On 10/18/63 MARVIN R. COLE was indicted by the

Federal Grand Jury at Los Angeles, charging him with two

counts of violation of Obstruction of Justice.

Trial

commenced in U. S. District Court, Los Angeles 5/14/63.

on 5/23/63 the jury returned a verdict of guilty on both

counts: On 6/12/63, a fine of $1,000 on each of the two

counts

was imposed by the court.

Notice of Appeal was

filed by COLE's attorneys on 6/13/63.

The January, 1961 Agency List of the Standard

Cour Page

NW 45658 DocId: 32160409 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 44-1639

penet

(85(M)

* New York 538-SXadvised thatat 12:15 p.m. November 13,

1963* WIESLAW GORNICKI, Polish correspondent of the Polish

Press

Agency, in a conversation with. BOHDAN LEWANOWSKI, Polish

Ambassador to the United States stated that he had information

indicating that the correspondent (name not given), of the Indian

Publication "Blitz" was in Dallas the day of the attack, ( assassi-

nation) and apparently obtained documents stating that police

Sheriff CURRY and RUBY were members of the "MB KESIDE" or

December 2; 1963

would be published in the near future by "BLITZ"', which he

-mattor

described as an Anti-American publication. The list of non United

States National Accredited as correspondents and representatives of

information media by the United Nations as of October 31, 1963,

lists RAMESH SANGHVI of Indian nationality as associated with

"BLITZ" *WIESLAW GORNICKI of Polish nationality was listed as

associated with the Polish Press Agency JS)(M)

per

SEville Come Page

NN 45658 DocId: 32160409 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI: 44-1639/BL

Sources at San Antonio, Austin, Waco, Temple and

Pharr,, Texas, had no pertinent informations

The following sources were contacted negatively.on

11/25/63 by the indicated Agents:

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS:

SOURCE

PCI J. C. STEPHENSON, Proprietor, s. P.

Drug Store and News Stand

SA 665-C

PCI VANCE F. BORDELON, gambler

POL CAESAR J. FERRIS, cafe owner and

bartender

Former SA 560-C

PCI PHILLIP BORDONARO, Tavern keeper

CUPCI JACK PATRICK HANRAY, gambler

WE PCI ROBERI S. YARRINGTON, retired gambler

Capt. ROBERT ALLEN, Vice Squad, SA PD

(including check of vice squad records)

PCI VINCENT L. LOCICERO

VOICI WADE HANSEN

SA. 660-C

CONTACTING AGENT

SA BRUNO F. DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA DREYER

SA JOHN RUSSELL GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA GRAHAM

SA MORTON P. CHILES, JR.

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

SA CHILES

OTHER 4

AT AUSTIN, TEXAS:

-

Former PCI MARION C. "SONNY" PEARSON,

gambler

SA H. T. BURK

SA BURK

COVER PAGE

NW 45658 DocId:32160409 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SL 44-496

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH on :

November 27, 1963 that

AL CHARLES, Proprietor

of the Stardust Club at St. Louis, Missouri, advised

him that he:has known JACK RUBY for 15 years.

Informant stated that RUBY, according to CHARLES has

a business partner, name unknown, who is 70 years of

age ana who formerly was in business in Dallas,

Texas,

Informant stated

partner operated a bar and burlesque house in Dallas,

Texas, which was in competition with a similar

establishment operated by an unnamed individual who

had an "in" with the Police Department. Informant

advised that CHARLES related that subsequently a

rape charge was filed against BOND who then fled from

Dallas, Texas,

to Washington, D. C., where he opened

a similar business. BOND according

to' CHARLES was

later

• "fingered"

and arrested at Washington, D. C.

However, no dates of occurrance were given in relating

this story.

Informant advised that CHARLES stated RUBY

then went into business in Dallas with JOE BOND's, former

partner, name unknown.

The indicies of the St. Louis Office failed to

reflect any derogatory information on AL CHARLES.

_.

(COVER PAGE)

AA

NN 45658 DocId: 32160409 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DI 44-1639

On November 27, 1963, the St. Louis Office advised that

SL 1285-C-TE advised SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963; that

AL CHARLES, Proprietor of Stardust Clu, St. Louis, Missouri,

has known JACK RUBY for fifteen years.

According to informant,

CHARLES stated RUBY has a business partner, name not mentioned,

70 years old, who formerly was in business

in Dallas with an indi-

vidual named JOE BONDS.

present partner operated a bar and burlesque house which was in.

competition with a similar establishment operated by an unnamed

individual who was friendly with the police department.

As a re-

sult a rape charge was filed against BONDS, who then fled from

Dallas to Washington, D. C., where he opened

a similar business.

BONDS, according to CHARLES, was later arrested at Washington,

and no dates given.

RUBY then went in business with BONDS' former partner.

Informant stated according to CHARLES,

AL CHARLES,

Proprietor of Stardust Club, St. Louss,

Missouri, featuring EVELYN WEST and other burlesque acts, was

personally contacted by SA CLARK S. SMITH on November 27, 1963.

CHARLES stated he is not personally acquainted with JACK RUBY,

did not know he originally came from Chicago, or that his name

was RUBENSTEIN.

However, CHARLES advised he

has known of JACK RUBY

as being in a similar business endeavor as his in Dallas for the

past 15 years.

CHARLES stated he received a telephone call from RUBY

approximately two years ago on occasion RUBY made an inquiry re-

garding night club acts. CHARLES further advised in April of

this year he paid a visit to Dallas

and patronized the three

burlesque houses in Dallas, including that of JACK RUBY. CHARLES

maintained he hasno other knowledge of RUBY or his associates.

COVER

NW 45658 DocId: 32160409

Page 7

---

