# docid-32317748

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10354-10076

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-350-E-143

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 02/18/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.::

09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45995

DocId: 32317748 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

C

P:

G:

P:

G:

P :

G:

P :

G:

P:

no i got another pot into the mine et 1lere,

Last week, when they came

all ran down into

the basement.

that guy was there.

I DON'T WANT THAT JOINT TO BE A HANGOUT.

MOONEY!, THERE WONT BE A HANGOUT THERE. I don't give a (obs).

There wont be no hangout there.

The G is in and out of there all the time..

That night, just before you came in, these guys are

sitting at

tables, talking, yelling, bla, bla, bla.

They hurt you, if

the G can hear them. Then when you

walk in, they shut up, and everybody is like a lamb.

don't respect nobody, except you. If these guys

come in, you can't chase

them out.

I don't want these guys hanging around there.

That one night you was there, I was there to see FRANK.

I ate, and I left.

The next night you came, I was working

kitchen, they had

a leak in there.

I usually

stay by the

liquor store.

All day long, the & spots you guys going in there.

Well, orle night, it was FRANK SARNO's birthday. There was

OTHER 4

Road, you know, where

We can get

that joint.

A lot of tradfic around there, big shopping centers.

But MOE, if you sell those guys something, you go a week

you're out of business.

That's the

only thing.

let me open up

until I get one of these spots going.

Just for a week or

ten days.

That place, there are no

around there.

We leave some cars

at the Franklin

House, some caff ainthe o'Hare Inn. There wont be no

cars around.

t like before.

We got to watch

everything.

The night they pinched the big game out

HW 45995

DocId: 32317748 Page 2

---

