# docid-32108178

## Page 1

Date: 06/01/99

Page:

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

some see woe go o

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10013-10036

JFK

201-289248

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOD

FROM :

SCHMIDT, GRAHAM E., DEPT. OF ARMY

TO : DEP DIR, PLANS, CIA,

TITLE

: MEMO RE RAYMOND FRIESECKE

DATE

: 05/11/64

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: PLAN OMEGA

CONNALLY, JOHN

FRIESECKE, RAY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 3

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/25/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

OSW17: V58 1993.06.25.10:58:08:280800: DUP OF

104-10003-10103; ARRB APPROVED 8/25/98.

TWO

ATTACHMENTS TO DAR 4041 ARE 104-10014-10049 AND

104-10014-10050.

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DooId: 32108178

Page

1

---

## Page 2

HEADQUARTERS

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20310

DAR 404/

AC SI-SCA

11 MAY 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:

DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PLANS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBJECT:

ATTN:

MR. ANTHONY P- FLYNN

laynond I. Friesecke

(C)

MICROFILMEE

NUV 2 € 1961

DOC, MISRO.ECR

1. (C) Inclosed are copies of two personal letters written by

Ravrond F. Friesecke to Lt Col John Connolly, Assistant Chier of Statt,

G4, 2d Intantry Division, Fort Benning, Ceorgia. They are furished

for your information since their content indicates that Uflesecke may

be associating with militant, anti-Castro, Cuban elements in the Unitec

States and may have unauthorized access to classified US Government

Information.

2. (C) Records of the US Army Counterintelligence Records Facility,

Fort Holabird, Maryland, contain the following information concerning

subject: Eriesecke was born on L2 March 1939 in Brooklyn, Massachusetts.

He graduated in June 1959 with a BS degree from Boston College, Chestnut

Hill, Massachusetts, and subsequently studied at the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology

He entered the US Arny. on active duty on 22

July 1961 as a Second Lieutenant, serial number D-5006664 and was

assigned to Fort Benning, Georgia. Source of his commission was the

ROTC Program®

He was granted a SECRET clearance by the ACofS, C2, Fort

Benning, on 20 October 1961 based on a favorable National Agency Check.

A background investigation was initiated on 30 October 1962 to determine

his suitability for access to TOP SECRET information. The investigation

was discontinued as subject was discharged from the US Army on 20 Janu-

ary 1963. Records checks and eleven (Ll) interviews contained in in-

complete investigation were non-derogatory.

(C) The source of the letters is It Col Connolly, who has volun-

tarily furnished them through channels to

this office as a matter of

possible interest.

It is requested that bis) identity as the source be

held in confidence and that this office.

furnished prior notification

1E addressee should desire to interview mim concerning the subject.

THIS DOCUMENT

HAS BEEN

A PARA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

FOR RELEASE,

AS SANIZIZBI

лати

ON 9/16

RESTRICTED TO CI/R-A

IDENTIAL

→ 34s COPL

2 ATTiS

11 brey 196%

201-289248

0-100-9-14

Downgraded at 12 y

nol automatically declassin

HH 53199

DocId:32108178 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AGSI-SCA

SUBJECT:

(U) In the event further correspondence from subject would be

of interest to you, request that this office be advised. Copy furnished:

Federal Bureau of Investigation.

FOR THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STATE FOR INTEELIGENCE

2 Incl

as

Charle R.Anighsa

GRAHAM E. SCHMIDT

Colonel, GS

Chief, Security, Division

2

-SON

FINL

201- 289241

HH 53199

DooId: 32108178

Page

3

---

