# docid-32330944

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90094-10034

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-112098-428

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1964

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330944

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Tohn F. Kennedy Assassination Record Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE:• 11-14-2017

• FD=263

(Rgy. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFID

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

NEW YORK

MIAMI

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/26-4/9/64

TITLE OF CASE

_SECOND NATIONAL FRONT_OR

ESCAMBRAY

_ (SNEE) (OPERATION

"ALPHA 66)

4/28/644

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

man

CHARACTER OF CASE

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

119 IS-CUBAURNISE!

KIRGIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCOR RAURE SHOWN

(OT REGISTRATION ACT-CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTER:

Clasan ed by -

REFERENCES:

MALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

I report of A RANGES J. O'ARTEN dated 2/10/64:

Declassur on:

OADR

DARE 515 515268 so/60 NT letter with enclosure dated 3/16/64.

- P-

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

1

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

File Where Located

NY T-1

105-57297 - 283 and

CSNY 2822-S

Instant Report, po.

285

1,6

NY T-2

DR. ERNESTO ARAGON GODDY

Instant Report, pp. 8,9

233 Bast ooth Streets- N-9osp8at

(request)

DECLASS LET GOT

of 28185

CA88-1602

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- Bureau

(105-112098)

(RM)

- Miami

(105-6243)

(INFO)

10-55

112098!

4281

REC 30

(RM)

1

-

Newark

(INFO)

(RM

San Juan (105-6133)

(INFO)

EX. = 717

(RM.) -

Washington Field

(105-50870)

(INFO)

(RM)

• APR

30 1964

1 - New York

(105-57297)

1 XEROX Copy

made

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Megionin

A customs, DIR

Copy 10: CIA/Sicte/RAD

est Died Cummer

ONLOSY ACSI

by routing site tot

Dato....

Catanifferin, stale:

6 4 MAY

304

CONNDENTIAL

DocId: 32330944

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Peleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

• FD-204 (Rev. 3-3

- 59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

-12-9846844oal

DECLASSIFICI

TON On

BY

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

CONFID

Loates.

AL

1602

Office:

4/28/64

105-57297

Bureau File #:

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

ESCAMBRAY (SNFE) (OPERATION ALPHA 66)

ALL INTO

TTON CONTAINED

HEREIG

ULASSIFIED

EXCDOT M

GA SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Now York, New York

105-112098

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

RECISTRATION ACT -CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

3/151|84

•final

Classifie

Declassity

4232100: 0108

NY I-l furnished a letter he received from the

Miami headquarters of the Second National Front of Escambray

(SNFE) - Alpha 66 - Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueble

(une) requesting a contribution together with a letter setting

out the "Omega Plan" of the group. Detective JOHN CAULFIELD,

Bureau of Special Services, New York City Police Departmen, 66 -

advised that the last public affair sponsored by SNFE-Alpha

Alpha 66 - MRP, advised

SERGIO DIAZ, a member of SNFE -

that the organization plans no public

acts for the immediate future.

NY T-1 advised that he received

a letter from MIRIAM TESTE Of Miami, a member of SNFE - Alpha 66-

MRP, who stated that the campaign to raise money was very

successful, that various revolutionary groups in Miami are

active and

in the near future, revolutionary elements,

delegate of SNFE - Alpha 66 -

MRP, stated that he was optimistic

do something and that this action would be led by ex-Major would

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENCYO.

ARGUELLES stated that the last public

meeting was held in New York on 1/19/64 and that when their

fighting forces land in Cubafthen they may sponsor public

acts to help

tnem financially INY I-2 advised that he had heard

a report that there may be an announcement soon stating that the

SNFE - Alpha 66 - MRP would work with the Jurits Revolucionaria

Cubana (JURE) of MANUEL

"MANOLO" RAY.

-P÷

DETAILS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DARES NO SEE SO/GEL

DATE 3/21/55

ENTIAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId:32330944 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:- 11-14-2017

CONTDENTIAL

NY 105-57297

MEMBER OF SUBTECT ORCUNZATION

DIAZ further stated on March 30, 1964, that the

organization stillcontinues to accept voluntary contributions

from members and

sympathizers of the organization in the Nv

DIAz adriasd that what/mney is received by the organiza-

tion is forwa led to ANTONIO/CIANA In Miami, florida,

who is

the Me OF SUBET A merganization."

April 3, 1964, advised that he was in re-

ceipt of a letter that date

from Miss MIRIAM TESTE who is active

in the/SNFE-ALPHA 66-MRP In Miani, Morida.

In her letter,

MIRIAM LESIE stated that the campaign sponsored by the organ•

ization to raise funds was most successiul..

NY T-l advised that Miss TESTE in her letter related

that various revolutionary groups in the Miami area, at the

present time, are most active but are worling very quietly in

order not to

NY 1rl stated that Miss TESTE wrote that in the very near

future revoluticnary elements will be fighting inside Cuba

aid that the SNIE-ALPHA 66-MRP will be part of this fighting.

Miss TESt also wrote, according to NY T-1, that

the Cuban exiles were very much

encouraged by what had taken

place in Brazil and the successful overthrow of the gover ment

of President JOAO GOULART. Miss TESIE wrote that the Cubans

were very encouraged by the statement made by Governor CARIOS

"Cuban Carnival"

- 6 -

CONNDENTIAL

DocId: 32330944 Page 4

---

