# docid-32339361

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90147-10074

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-93072-75

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

08/27/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : MEMO; ENCLOSURE

v9.1

DocId: 32339361 Page 1

65

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jöhn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 210] Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECUASSSICATION ANSA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSSFIED EXCEPT

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

I THIS DOCUMENIAS SANITIZED

Ja bache

K 8/24/98

1

RICHARO

MAS GIBSON

Ar.

Belmont

Evans

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Wannall

Mr.

Hurst

- Mr.

Dunn

hugase 20, 1P63

SECRET

Gibson,

and secretory of

tho Fair Play

Chase on Angust d0

satervieved by one New Yor

Seney (CrA) sor

The follesing reagan (s)

the Central latelliganec

1) 010000 Said De ta finanetal!

cameony airine cet lie over

rould bo villize do boty the

Sirencial sonneration

No nedo

notivated 08icuy cy bust

regard

BanD MoC h0 Too

erotise in this

(8) 8)

States

Lotte Anarica

gibson said to folt he

however *

Sarage ests conte

he costines to Micee

# Iohs4St

CLASSIFIRD BY 5668 SLO/GLO

()

12 8ee0

DECLASSIPY ON:

Was a asol

an anisation, provide he too

sation.

a sahaie 0600-.01s

ately paid for such

Go bac

expresssd

tronge for

Alleno,

the motes to

che United Scotan or Hopert.

Bought 23

sho sled this comtry, for

a auctive 12 com 994101

charts la hosta corosing:

Absor cold toe Millian

s very untess in puna au monto do 100тe t Comb

novico he does not heve to

190122

*North Caroli

Tho salest expressed the belios that the

oney cataistration could have Federal changss agalast

mains dropped at de the lacter sore "hacied right,

A vonid denouge Castro and Me Caban goremacas.

so G1h00m g

Berich, probaby for nineas

wariens is prosentis scening to leave bate ver

son

nont -

a highly inglective and

Concerning the Frog, Giboon doseribed this organizatios

as nocklor note then a translation

ach

RDC : dna (13)

105-93072

an

27-4196 (FPCC)

See note page 3

Clas

Room.

GADR

OFK

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

5

seve

SECRET

DocId: 32339361

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 U5ty2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

de: Neard Tuats

Cabang

Ginsen nos evesizo

DE 10 & O ONE

storesenta les rado auring a

Thou fortes contes militand

To vior t

one saeone out he cold

ner concente bit Sin.

Note:

See cover memorandun prepared by JJD: pa dated 8-24-62

same subject from Wannall to Sullivan. U

Classified "Confidential" in view of the fact that

CIA could possibly have an interest

in using Gibson in Latin

ng ata ration of hi dis dose

his offer would jeopardize

Original of letterhead menorandum sent to Attorney General,

copies to Deputy Attorney General; Mr.

J. Walter Yeagley, Assistant

Attorney General; Mr. Herbert J. Miller, r, Assistant Attorney

General, CIA; and Department of State. V

(SE BET)

DocId: 32339361

Page 3

---

