# docid-32309516

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10298-10303

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-62, 63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/06/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, GPH, RES, ASSOC, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

ACT, EXPLOSIVES, MIL VENTURE, ARMS, BOAT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32309516

Page 1

46

Date:

5/27/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

53074 Date:

05-25-2017

---

## Page 2

=5.

PTIONAL FORM NO. 11

=10-104-0

UNITED STATES!

*ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(2-1693)

jers

SUBJECT:

SAT, MIAMI

(2-312)

(P)

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FO

(INTERPEN)

NEUTRALITY MATTER

DATE:

9-6-62

(DRE)

Rerep SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER, dated *

4-10-62,

at Miami.

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of

letterhead memorandum dated and

captioned as

above.

MM T-1 1S MM 639-S

4(22)

ON.SA744

Information

contained in enclosed letterhead

memorandum was furnished as soon as it was received

to

U. S. Customs and U. S. Border Patrol, who

had this

boat under constant surveillance.

It is expected that HEMMING will try to

1,5-0ndee

launch another expedition.

9/20/62

The Miami Office will maintain contact wif

4MM 639-Stand keep U. S. Customs, U. S. Border Patro

the Bureau advised. gui

CATION TO

DECLAS

AN END/OR,

SOFIATION

RE:

N THIS iN

KP 10-16-97

2-Bureau

2-Miami

SLD |KSR

RJD; AL

(4)

Xx454-90

2/2 JEK NS

NOTOS REC 16 Y

REC 16 2 1693

(Eng

9)

(RM) JEb SI

1518 seS 10 196

endlo

CC TO!!

REQ. RCC'D..

7169-12

-100/MAY SIE 9567

6600

ANS.

Bog

• Soon neha 2206 11

0/41

by rouling sue for 1pro.

NH 53074

DocId: 32309516

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Miami, Florida

SEP 6

1962

cuBa

RE:

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES

(INTERPEN)

MM T-1, who has been involved in Cuban

revolutionary activities for the past live years and who han

has furnished rellable information In the past, on

August 3, 1962, advised that GERALD PATRICKLEMMING.

an unemployed American soldier of fortune residing In

Miami, Florida, on August 3, 1962, was supposed to be the

middle man on

the sale of 250 pounds of c-4 explosive.o(m)

MM T-1 explained that HEMMING had contacted

DAVID/QUINTAS, 469 N. W. 48th Street, Miami, who 1s a

Cuban national interested in Cuban revolutionary activity

and has a small

group of followers among Cuban exiles in

Miami. HEMMING was unable to locate the 250 pounds of

C-4 explosive although QUINTAS had the money to pay for

the purchase 4M)

QUINTAS was going to use this explosive as

part of his equipment for a future military venture against

Cuba which expedition

would leave the United States and arrive

In cuba by way of the Bahama Islands. (4) M)

On August 23, 1962, QUINTAS conferred with HEMMING

and said he hoped to leave Miami on August 24, 1962, 1f

HEMMING could obtain a boat for transportation.

claimed to have $5000.00 to spend on arms and had a place

where he could purchase different weapons. He said his plan

was to go to the Bahama Islands and then to Cuba where he

would establish an anti-Communist guerrilla force.

ENCLOSURE

701693

HH 53074 DooId:32309516 Page 3

---

## Page 4

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES

(INTERPEN)

quantity of German 7.62 m, M62M3 type rifle,

which are

ven -euggatle and this worla be soid in lot for $195.00

SAMAB

ENTON, an American In Miami who claims to be

an attorney and a

private detective,

but who is not listed

the telephone book as either;

and whose address is unknown,

has been in contact with a number of Cuban revolutionalists

in Miami.

BENTON claimed he could provide a boat for use

by HEMMING and QUINTAS and would make one available.

MM T-1 continued that on August 23, 1962, SAM

BENTON arranged for the

use of a boat which would be operated

by HEMMING to carry a number of QUINTAS' followers to the

Bahamas and then eventually to Cuba.

HEMMING was told that

two days

after he departed from the United States with the

"It

boat to collect the insurance.

would be reported stolen and the owner would be

That day HEMMING took

possession of a thirty foot Chris-Craft twin engine cabin

named "Outlaw vI"

The boat had Florida

Registration FIA728B and a radio telephone with call

letters WH 8531:

The boat is painted white with a blue

stripe and registered to R. Calhoun Motors, Ine.,

Hallandale Beach Boulevard, West HolLywood

Florida. diM

HEMNING and QUINTAS planned to take a total of

19 Cubans to Anguila Key, Bahamas, remain there a few days

where they will meet another boatful of Cubans and from

there go to Cuba and start an anti-Communist

t guerrilla band. k(M)

MM T-I advised that HEMMING planned to go to

Hobe Sound, Florida,

where the Cubans and equipment would be

loaded on the Chris-Craft boat and depart for the Bahamas. KM

OK August 25, 1962,

wu r-Iadvised that ROLANDO

MASFERRER/ ROJAS,

a former Cuban Senator presently living

In exile in New York City, was visiting in Miami, Florida.

CubA

Ny

2.

NW 53074 DooId: 32309516 Page 4

---

## Page 5

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES

(INTERPEN)

сиве

MASFERRER, HEMMING and QUINTAS conferred on

August 25, 1962, at QUINTAS! residence where HASFERRER

promised to supply weapons and cuban exiles to participate

In the planned military action.

Thereafter HEMMING bought

two 55-galIon drums of gasoline for the boat and some under-

water swimming equipment to take along: aM)

On August 27, 1962, MM T-I advised that on the

previous evening four groups of Cubans left Miami, Florida,

and went to Fort lauderdale, Florida, and maintained telephone

contact with QUINTAS in Miami for further instructions.

The plan at that time was that HEMMING would take the boat

to some secure place where the Cubans and their equipment

could be loaded on the boat without being seen by the US

Border Patrol or local police. However, the four groups

of Cubans elther became afraid to go on the expedition

or were called back to Miami büt in any event they all

returned to Miami and HEMMING along with his friend, STEVE

IISON, a mercenary, proceeded on the boat to Pompane Beach,

MM T-l advised that then with HENNING on the boat

In addition to WILSON were two more of HEMMING's friends,

merican adventurers JOE tollINs and BIb SENORE.

"It

appeared then that they would go on to the Bahamas without

the Cubans and meet them at Anguila Key...

Z IsLaNds

On August 28, 1962, Mr. J.H. WILCHESTER, U. S.

Customs, Miami, Florida, advised that in the early morning

hours Customs agents observed that the above mentioned boat

at Pompano Beach was being loaded with boxes, packages and

steel drums.

WIICHESTER sald the boat contained no

automatic weapons, there were several Americans on board

that GERALD PATRICK HEMMING claimed they were going

out

fishing

WILCHESTER said the boat would be held until

about 9:00 A.M., =

at which time it would be free

to leave.

On August 28, 1962, MM T-l advised that HEMMING

Ku)

3. i

NW 53074 DooId: 32309516

Page 5

---

## Page 6

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES

(INTERPEN)

called Miami, Florida, and stated he had been stopped by

U.S. Customs agents and that he would return to Miami,

-Florida. C

MM. T-1 on August 29, 1962, advised that HEMMING

and his crew returned to Miami, Florida.

The boat was

docked at the Dinner Key Marina.

and one engine was inoperative.

he boat was waldadad

MM T-I explained that HEMMING 1s very impatient

to attempt another expedition and claims he will try to

Leave again in two

or three weeks: MM I-I explained that

although he had seen no arms the Cuban exiles claimed that

MASFERRER furnished arms and that these arms were confiscated

by the U. S. Central Intelligence Agency.

MM T-I said it

is not clear if the group had any automatic weapons. It

is highly unlikely that they did although QUINTAS' followers

have a few small arms such as pistols and rifles n

EMM T-lysald that HEMMING is very anxious to go

on a military expedition and although he is a liar and a

braggart, he is capable of making another attempt.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contäins neither

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI..

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

4.#

HH 53074 DooId: 32309516

Page 6

---

