# docid-32404560

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10335-10004

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-ARRB REQUESTS

Released under the John

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

ARRB

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

8

ARRB REQUEST - CIA-5: NAMES, PSEUDONYMS AND CRYPTONYMS

07/07/1995

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

UNIT INDEX

ARRB REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 05/06/03

JFK-M-19 : F5: 2000.02.16.08:44:43:293044 : UNIT INDEX

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10335-10004

HH 53217

DocId: 32404560

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW - Second Floor - Washington, DC 20530

July 7, 1995

BY FACSIMILE

Mr. John Pereira, Director

Historical Revlew Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

RE: ARRE Additional Information Request No. CIA-5

Dear John:

In addition to its requests of June 20 and June 28, the ARRB will need information on the names,

pseudonyms and crypts appearing on the attached brief list in order to prepare for its July 17-18

Board Meeting. As with the previous lists, we would appreclate your sending "clear and

convincing" evidence in support of the Agency's recommendation to postpone release,

including short descriptions of each crypt, a brief identification of each individual (including

what that person was doing for the CIA in 1963-64, whether the name is a true name or a

pseudonym), and indications of whether these crypts, operations, and individuals are presently

active or inactive. As we have discussed, the Board in particular needs to know, In specific

terms, what evidence CIA can provide for those cases where release would endanger personal

safety, ongolng intelligence operatlons, or current foreign relations. To help with your search,

we have included document numbers where these names and crypts are found.

We are also enclosing coples of the first pages of two documents for which your staff needed

further identification.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

161m

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Classified Attachments

Telephone: (202) 724-0088 • Facsimile: (202) 724-0457

NH 53217 DocId:32404560 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• .

Descriptive Name: CIA request No.5 for July bd. Mtg.

Descriptive Type: Fax

Creation Date:

7/6/95 11:02:18 AM

Revision Date:

Author:

Typist:

7/7/95 8:42AM

MMCAULIFPE MSH

NGRAY

Subject:

Account:

Re: ARRB Additional Information Request No. CLA-5

McAuliffe e; Iwp-docs \cia05.wpd

Keywords:

File 4.20.3 & 4.20.4

Abstract:

cc: Jeremy Gunn

Classified Attachments

33217

Doc1d:32404560

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

ARRI Request for the Central Intelligence Agency, July 7, 1995

Please provide us with information on the following:

-----=

(Document numbers have been provided, when RIFs were available, to assist you in this effort)

1. No document number (HMMA-22387; 10/25/63)

Louise J. Macrino

LIEMPTY (Numbers 6,7,8,9,10,11,12, 13,14,19,24)

2. 104-10015-10091

LITEMPO-2

3. No document number (Cable # 67301; 24 Nov 1963)

Define "double talk"

4. No document number (HMMA 22517)

60-6-56/1

LITMUS

5. No document number (HMMA 22515; 11/21/63)

TYPIC

6. No document number (HMMA 22135; 9/13/63)

AEJUMBO

7. No document number (HMMA 22536; 11/29/63)

LICENTO-1

8. JFK3:Fl 1993.07.06.16:26:50:250150

LIMOUSINE

Ramon Alvarez Durant (deceased?)

9. 104-10015-10133

Virginia Renshaw

Tenney

10. No document number (HMMA 22515; 11/21/63)

AMRIFT

SECRET

NW 53217 DocId:32404560 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

11. No document number (Cable #67301)

RIS

12. No document number (HMMA 22267; 10/8/63- Monthly Op report)

LIENVOY-2

--..

SECRET

1TH

53217

DooId: 32404560

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

14

July 1995

Mr. David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review

Board

600 E Street, N.W.

Washington, DC 20530

Dear David:

1.

The attached is in response to your Request

No. CIA-5 dated July 7, 1995, with answers numerically

keyed to your specific questions in List 2.

2.

Please contact me or Barry Harrelson if

clarification is needed regarding the responses.

Sincerely,

:...

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

Attachment

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ATTACHMENT

53217

Doc1d:32404560

Page

anger

---

## Page 7

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

SECRET

RE: ARRB Additional Information Request No. CIA-5

1.

(P)

Support asset Mexico City Station

pseudonym is releasable

Assets involved in photo coverage of Soviet Embassy

releasable crypt

2 . .

Mexican liaison official

releasable crypt

3. Deliberate ambiguous conversation

but with

clear meaning to both parties

4. File number for Beancoth operation

Polish Legatioh

releasable crypt

5. Action indicator for Cuban Operations

releasable crypt

6. Asset targeted against Soviets

releasable crypt

7. Asset who supplied travel information,

terminated Dec -65

releasable crypt

8. Cryptonym used for support of agent handling

real estate near Soviet Embassy

*see attached file summary for last contact on record

9. (I/N) -retired overt status Sept. 76

releasable name

(T/N) Calvin W. Tenney - retired overt

releasable name

10. Listed as MFIFT on CIA #3

no further information

SECRET

53217 DocId:32404560 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

SECRET

RE: ARRB Additional Information Request No. CIA-5

11.

12.

Russian Intelligence Service

Mexican liaison official

protect crypt

CR

ET

33217

DocId: 32404560

Page 8

---

## Page 9

• DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

SECRET

Classification

JFK MICROFILM FILE SUMMAR Y

SUMMARY;

BEL 54

, FOLDER(S) 8-9-10 , CREATED by MAQ.

SUBJECT OF FOLDER: ALVAREZ, RAMON JOSEPH

201 NUMBER, IF ANX+204-119523

INCLUSIVE DATES OF FILE MATERIAL 07/25/56 THRU 05/03/78

RELEVANCE OR NON-RELEVANCE TO OSWALD & JFK ASSASSINATION:

(INCLUDE REASON FOR INCLUSION IN THIS COLLECTION IF KNOWN)

Non-relevant.

REASON OR ASSUMED REASON FOR INCLUSION IN THIS COLLECTION

Photo coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City during Oswald's visit there in October

1963.

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION WITHIN FILE:

There are three files on subject who was recruited in March 1955 as a member of the Mexico City Station

unilateral surveillance team. By late 1956 he had become the P/A in charge of the surveillance team and

in addition was in charge of photo surveillance of the soviet mission, including processing the film.

From the time of his marriage in December 1958, and for the next 10 years, his wife assisted him as a

part-time support asset. Over the years, subject performed additional duties such as giving English

lessons, serving as LP keeper, transcriber/translator of an audio operation, involvement in ops against the

Cuban mission and Cuban exile groups, general ops support, and spotting and assessment. The last

station contact with him was in May 1971.

CIA/U.S. GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP:

Yes: Subject was contract agent.

PAGES OF NON JAK RELATED MATERIAL:

405

HH 53217 DocId:32404560 Page 9

---

