# docid-32278394

## Page 1

Released under the John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2102 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10045-10261

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 100-10461-9140, 9141

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/15/1968

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5600

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/03/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/18/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC SAC, NY A/T, LHM

DocId: 32278394

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collecfion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-2917

3/15/68

SECRET

AININL

JFK 3/22/96

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 840/GC1

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X)(6)

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (205-82555)

SAC, NEW YORIS (105-38431)

SUBJECT:

LEN HARVEY OSWALD

ATT. INFORMATION CONTAINED

FORDIN LE UNCEASSIFIED

EAGE: E WHERE SHOWN

JFK

1/893

3/22/93

5/70H38/GAT

Classified In 9803R00/SAL

Destassify on MADRUERO

Enclosed

for the Bureau are teh copies of an

tHM reflecting the invitation by MARINA OSWALD PORUEE

for her father

to visit the united states.

There is

also enclosed two copies of this Ill for the Dallas

orfice:

The source of

Instant intornationt

a highly confidential and seneitive source. (

In view of the highly sensitive source

• in the

LIM, the IM Is being classified "Secret No Foreign

Dissemination*

* (XXn)

INFORMATION FROM THIS HIGHLY SENSIZIVE SOURCE

MUST BE MOST CANOPUNEY FARAPIRASED TO PROIECT MIS JOUNCE

XUD ANY INTO ATION DISSEMININED DUESTION THE BUNSNO

SHOULD BE CLASSENISS BACHEL - NO TORETEN DISSHALUARION. "CE(U)

Bureau

20)

schied by

1-105- 19358, 0n2 (R)

Brampy 12'09

stegory 243

New York

LCKisfb

(8)

ot Declassification wesTINI

100-10461-9141

SEARCHED...

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

,FILED...

JAN 161908

F8 - DALLAS

• SECRET

DocId: 32278394

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotle).

DATE: 11-11-2017

NY 105-38431

SECRET

On 2/24/680 X 15257-5*

highly contidential

sensitive source,

rumitched reliable Infor-

mation in the past, advised thaion that date a Mrs.

MARINA PORTER,

Dallas,

texas, was In contact with her

Apartment 43,

Obvodney 'Kanai

. 80, Leningrad, USSR.

MEe • PORTER iden

t1f1ed herself as

KINNENTL

and ie apparently

the widow of Let Hivey Osway

In addition to boing in contact with her father;

Mes. PORTAR was in contact wich her slater TANYA and a

brother PEDA:

Mrs. PORTER Indicated that she has three

children: MARINA, alx years old; RACHEL, age 4 and MARK

age 18.

She indicated she has forgotten much of her

Russian and that she with be 27 years of age on 7/17/68.

She advised that her husband, KENNETH PORTUR, 1e 29.

Inguired 1f her relatives in

She

the USSR received a package

Chat she had

sent

i two yeare ago.

They advised

that such

a package had been received.

She indicated

iner

huband

and children do not speak. Rusalan.

Mrs. PORTER Invited her father to visit her in

the United States, as

ber guest and that she will pay for

his transporation.

She suggested that i1 he wanted to come

to the United States, he should write to the U.S. Embassy.

Mrs. PORTER was advised that her father had recently

married.

They and expressed

their mutuel well being ond

affection for one another.

* (4)

Mee. PONTER stated that she is healthy and very

happy.

She indicated that she loves her husband and

he

very

loves her.

She described him as tel. blacks hair anc

beautiful eyos.

She stated that she hac

conststing of three bedrooms,

trio

a very nice home

baths, o

i kitchen, dining

room and a large garden. (P(u)

SECRET,

DocId: 32278394

Page 3

---

