# docid-32336918

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10313

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82298-130

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

05/24/1961

PAGES:

61

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NN 45875

3

DocId: 32336918

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

BA

• 105-2118

one copy of this report is being furnished the

Legal Attache

st Madrid and paris for information in

view

of the interest of those offices in this matter. full

SAN

ANTONIO:

AT HE ALLEN, TE

045 :

Will maintain contact with officials at INS

Alien Detention Facility relative to the subject, and his

status.

INFORMANTS

Careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed and "" symbols utilized only in instances

where identity of source must be concesled.

Identity of Source

File Where Located

SA T-1:

Who furnished the

information to the

Legal Attache,

Madrid,

per letter 7/29/60, from

Legal Attache, Madrid,

to the Buresu.

See report

of SA: THOMAS H. ERRION;

11/3/60, at Miami, captioned,

"CHANGED: ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO,

aka, Kiko Pernas;

IS - CUBA

SA

T-2:

JULIEN VERNIMMEN, Belgian

Security Service; set out

in Legal Attache,

captioned, "ELOY CUTIERREZ

MENOYO, aka, IS = CUBA.*

105-2118-51

OTHER

4

: 105-2118-51

÷55

-61.

COVER PACE

SECRETI

NW 45875 DocId: 32336918 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

SA: 105-8218

Identity of

T-3:

PSI

York Office.

SA TA:

Source

CONFIDEATIAL

File Where Located

the

- New

105-2118-43.

PSI of

New York Office

SA

T-

the

105-2118-54

105-2118-78

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that the investigative period is

lengthy; however, the Bureau and Office of origin have been

kept up to date on the status of this investigation through

use of referenced communications.

Translation of the article which appeared in

the February 12, 1961,

of Diario Las Americas, was done

by ELEANORE SCHOENBERGER, I the Miami Office.

Two additional copies of this report are being

furnished the Bureau for transmittal to legat,

Paris

and Madrid.

CLASSIFICATION

This report if Classified "Secret" inasmuch asa - /

it contains information

SA T-5

classified. It is notes that th

information furnished by

(SA T-3). New York letter to Director, 2/14/61, captioned,

"ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - CUBA, "

contains instructions that any report containing information

furnished by SANCHEZ RAMOS should be classified "Secret."

-C*.

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRETI

NW 45875 DocId:32336918 Page 3

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

MULEY in care of ARTURO G. MATA, Poste Restante Central

Lieges, Belgium. He stated that

when

he was

about ready

to

leave Madrid, Spain, he sent a telegram to the above mentioned

address, and addressed it to ARTURO G. MATA.

" He stated he

did not

know recall the contents of this telegran,

but that

he was certain that he did not state that he was leaving

Spain with instructions for MATA.

Belgium, GUTIERREZ attempted to locate both MATA and MULEY

through

the Cuban Embassy located in Brussels, but was un-

successful as no one there appeared to know either of these

individuals.

no 3a1d ho

He said he then sent MTA a second telegran

to the same address in Lieges, Belgium, but received no

response.

The Cuban Ambassador to Belgium then personally

drove hin to lieges, Belgium, and the two of them managed

to locate MATA through inquiry in & bar in the Spanish

colony in Lieges.

GUTIERREZ stated that after he met

MATA, the latter

introduced him to ADDERRAMAN MULEY, and

he admitted that the threeof then

discussed Spain and its

present

problons, and that MATA and MULEY both informed

him that they were actively engaged in fighting against

FRANCISCO!

FRANCO:

GUTIERREZ stated that both ADDERRAMAN

MULEY and ARTURO G. MATA were members of the Directorio

Revolucionario Iberico de Liberacion

(DRIL), and that he

believed

ADDERRAMAN

MULEY was one of the directors of

GUTIERREZ-said he had no prior knowledge of

ARTURO G.

MATA,

and did not know if he had ever been in

or whether he had any

connections with the present

regime of FIDEi CASTRO. * /U

SA T-2, & Confidential Source Abroad, advised on

December: 28,

1960, that. ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO was reported

to be a leader of

the organization known as DRIL, and that

he reportedly was sent to Belgium for the purpose of organiz-

ing the Liege Branch of this organization, and that he had

, come to Belgium to find out as much as possible about DRIL

and its real value as & movement capable of overthrowing

SA T-2 further advised

that GUTIERREZ MENOYO arrived in Belgium by air fron Madrid

on July 21, 1960, and that since

he had entered Belgium

clandestinely, and since his presence was considered to be

dangerous for

the public welfare, GUTIERREZ MENOYO was

the object of an explusion order

issued on August 10, 1960. (S)

23

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 45875 DocId: 32336918

Page

---

## Page 5

spor

SECKEL,

SA T-2

advised that GUTIERREZ MENOYO had been arrested on

August

1960, and that after the issuance of the explusion

order,

be was released on August 11, 1960, and left Belgium

by air for paris, France,

on August 12, 1960. SA T-2/further Spar

advised that an individual named GONZALEZ ARTURO MATALLEDO,.

OF ARTURO CONZALEZ MATA LIEDO, & Spanish national, also

associated with DRIL

was arrested on the same day as

Belgium

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, and was expelled from

, Belgium on August 18,

1960. (5)

Continuing the interview, GUTIERREZ MENOYO stated

that he remined in Lieges, Belgiun, for about three days,

visiting with indivicuals who lived in the Spanish colony in

that city, when he was suddenly arrested, placed in jail,

and

threatened with & return to Spain.

said he is certain

that the FRANCO government in Spain put pressure on the Span-

ish Embassy

in Brussels, Belgium, to have Belgium police

arrest him, and place him in jail.

He said that after about

three days the government of Cuba lodged an informal con

plaint with Belgiun, and arrangements were then made to

expel him fron the

country. GUTIERREZ said he signed the

explusion order, but did so under protest, claiming that

the arrest had

been illegal and that his incarceration vas

therefore

without grounds.

GUTIERREL stated that he flew from Brussels, Belgium,

to Paris,

France, and remined in Paris about

15 days, during

which time he lived at the home of & man named ALVAREZ, whom

he described as an employee of the Cuban Embassy in Paris.

He said that during this time he visited the Spanish President-

in-Exile, & man named HERRERA, who lives in Paris.

He stated

that when

"his vacation in Paris was nearly completed, he

attempted to arrange for a return to Cuba by way of the United

Santa Maria in the Azores, and from there to Cuba.

He said he

spent six days in Santa Maris, the Azores, waiting for the

Madrid-Havana plane.

While there, he stated that Portuguese

authorities examined him very closely, which was undoubtedly

performed at the instigation of the FRANCO government in

Spain.

GUTIERREZ, in commenting on his European trip,

stated that-the trip had no intelligence nor espionage

or significance and that he had made the trip all

24

SECRET!

105-82298-130

NW 45875 DocId: 32336918

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRETI

SA 105-2118

recently overheard to remark that GUTIERRE MENOYO waS

living

in Mismi, Florida, and that he was a dedicated

communist who lately was supposed to have fallen in dis-

favor with CASTRO which

caused him to leave Cube.

SA T-5, another

Government agency that conducts

intelligence investigations,

advised that & source who had

been evaluated, had advised that leaders of underground

A201-CASTRO

scops in Cuba were shooked on hearing of the

defection o1 Wjor ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, and & group of

followere,

and

"of their arrival in the United States

Many: 02 these leaders

considered GUTIERLEZ to be an Agent

rovees bout;

and vera reported as having reason to believe

that two ot

GUTIEREL? companions, ANGEL BANOS, and "KIKO"

PERNAS

were actually Cuban intelligence agents:

Source

said representatives of anti-CASTRO groups in the United

States have

been advis

not to trust CUTIERE Or

any

member of his group.

SA T-2,

mentioned previously as having furnished

information concerning GUTIERREZ' connections with the

organization known

' as DRIL (Directorio Revolucionario

Iberico de Liberacion) (Revolutionary Iberian Directorate

of Liberation), also furnished the following additional

Information concerning the DRIL and ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO: (5)

According to SA T-?, known active members of the

BRIL included:

hateroes pain

& Spaniard, employed st

the "Madrid

Liege, Belgium.

2. LOOMINGO (ANTONIO),.

fly of the "Madeld Bar."

(ABDERRAVAN) ,

Lives in Liege,

(MANUEL/POJAS),

PENA (MAXIMO), & Liege architect.

-49-

|(5)

elguem

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 45875 DocId:32336918 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SA

105-2118

Depend frien

DRiTT

'SECRET?

5 VIATA (JUAN). 220 / 08-

SANTORO (GUILLERMO), lives in Germany.

"i"

minKo,

one

Bilguins

Venezuela

{0r DRIL

8. 1030UIz (MARIA), brought funds from

9. XVRIO (JOST), & resident of Venezuela.

10/ GUSTE (ALONZO). 2eO/OC

As previously noted by SA I-2, BLOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

NAS

arrested on August 6, 1960,

in Belgium, at which time he

was in

the company of the following individuals:

1.

ROJO-RUIZ

- Cata

(5)

3.

CONZALEZ-MATA-LLEDO (ARTURO)Y

In

possession of ROJO-RUIZ were the following

items:

An sutomatic gun with loader and cartridges;

A loaded stick;

A fired stick;

A firing device, without the detonator and

explosive charge;

Four copies of & complete sabotage handbook,

in Spanish, with sketches of mhy explosive contrivances,

among them & booby trap book with

directions regarding their

'=50-

15

(5)

SECRET

105-82298-130

: =

HW 45875 DocId: 32336918 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SA 105-2118

SECRET

possession of MULEY-HORE, were the following

1tems:

A revolver with cartridges;

A loaded stick.

According to SA I?, all of the persons in the

organization kaown as bait are referred to under the pseudo

nyn or tho firat hate under which they operate as sgents

the

DRIL.

These are;

culo

LE LA MOUSY-MORE (ARDERRAMAN);?

*"RAFAEL MARIA" IS ROJO-RUIZ (RAFAEL-MARIA) :

*"JUANJO" iS GONZALEZ-MATA -LLEDO (ARTURO);

"ELOY" IS GUTIERREZ-MENOYO (KLOY) ;

"MARINO" iS MARIN-NOVOA, REYES;

"MIRKO" IS SANTORO (GUILLERMO) ;

JUSTIN" LET ALVAREZ MONTERO (JUSTINO);

"GUSTAVON AS MARTINEZ

DONOSO (SANTIAGO) :24222

"JOSE-MARIA* is

RODRIGUEZ (JOSE-MARIA).

(5).

Bet guiron

SA T-2

&ls0 advised that MARTINEZ-DONOSO (SANTIAGO),

born January 7, 1940, Madrid, Spain, who was & Cuban national,

was in Madrid from approximately April to June, 1960; that

MARTINEZ was an agent of DRIL; that MARTINEZ' cousin had

been shot following bombings in Madrid; that he had fled to

Belgium where he was in contact with DRIL representatives,

and that he returned to Cubs in July, 1960. (5)

SA T-2 said further that at the time GUTIERREZ

MENOYO was in Europe in the summer of 1960, that he was

carrying out what was referred to as the "LOY" mission. (S)

-51-

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 45875 DocId: 32336918 Page 8

---

## Page 9

"SECRET

3A 105-2118

GUSIENREZ IS

regarded as & hero of the Cuban Revolution:

FIDEL CASTRO would be inclined to entrust

to his s

For this renot 60 million pesetas which was collected by

sum of

Spaniarde Living: in Cube.

This sum might constitute a fighting

toad" for the DRIL, but bofore relessing that sum,

FIDEL CASTRO

ko said to have asked "eloy""to get information in Zurope about

the DRIL and

its real elficiency as a movement capable of over-

throwing the

FRANCO government.

"BLoy" thus was said to have

coms t0

kiege,

Belgius,

so? the purpose of meeting "PEPE" who

might have boon in a position to give him the information.

Besidoe, he had to

consider the possibility of a transfer fron

Cube,

Da so aluma banks, os the large amora datinod.

On April. 6, 1961, ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO WaS &gain

Intervioned by SAS: ZACHRY and HAGY,

at the U. S. Immigration

and Naturalization Service Alien Detention Facility,

HeAlten,

Texas, concerning the information attributed to SA T-?, set

out directly above.

GUTIERREZ was reminded that he did not have tomake any state-

him in s court of law, and that he had the right to legal

counsel:

He stated he understood this,

and voluntarily

furnished the following information:

(a)

He said he was not acquainted with

MAXIMO (BERNARD)

oF DOMINGUEZ (ANTONIO).

He pointed out that in & previous

interview he had advised that in attempting to locate

ARTURO G. MATA in Belgium, that he and the Cuban Ambassador

to Belgium had gone to Liege, Belgium,

where they managed

to locate MATA through inquiry in a bar' in the Spanish colony

in Liege.

GUTIERrEZ said it was entirely possible that MAXIMO

and DOMINGUEZ were

the persons at this bar who assisted them

in locating MATA. (2/VS)

Concerning

ABDERRAMAN: MULRY,

GUTIERREZ said he was

certain that this person as ldentical with the ADDERRAMAN

MULEY mentioned by him in & previous interview as one of

the directors of the DRIl.

GUTIERREZ said MULEY,

who also

used the name of ROJAS, was one of those srrested with him

-52-

SECRET:

105-82298-130

NW 45875 DocId:32336918 Page 9

---

## Page 10

C

SA 105-2118

SECRET

in Liege,

Bolgium, on August 6, 1960.

MULEY was later freed

by Belgian authorities and returned to Cuba; GUTIERREZ saw

and talked with

Muney in Cubs, and believes

that he still

lives in Cuba,

GUTTERREZ said he vaguely recalled that MULEY

used the nick same of "PIPE."

He said MULXY told bim that the

PEANCE pOLIC

or where: (*B5

once tried to kill him, but did not say when

ConceRning PINA (MAXIMO), GUTIERREZ said he had been

So oded not en in CA) Way, but that he had

ethor comes

Concerning

• MATA

(JUAN); SANTORO (GUILLERMO) ;

CUT TERRIE said he

knew

no, one by

a nough he had heard MULEY speak of a wIRKO. "!

A, A 21E70 riang

ROJO-RUIZ (MARIA),

GUTIERREZ sa10

of no one by this name, but that he had met & man

named ROJO

other names unknown,

in Belgium, through MULEY,

and that ROJO had been arrested with him on August 6, 1960.

He described ROJO as & Spaniard, about 40 to 45 years old.

He said he later met ROJO with MULEY in Cuba, and learne

from him that he was going to venezuela from Cuba.!

Concerning

VELO (JOSE),

GUTIERREZ said he knew of

no one by

this name

but had heard ROJO mention a person

named VELO;

versation.

US

Recall no details concerning this con-

Concerning Jus

ALONZO), GUTIERREZ said he knew

of no one

by this name.

GUTIERREZ said the only

one of the above persons

known by him to be connected with

DRIL, waS MULEY,

beloved was one or the directors of this organization. f

Concerning his arrest in Liege, Belgium, on

August 6, 1960, GUTISRREZ said it was his recollection that

there were five persons arrested with him.

He said that in

addition to himself, the man named ROJO, MULEY, ARTURO G.

MATA, & man named ANTONIO, and a youth whose name he could

-53-

SECRET

105-82298-130

NW 45875 DocId: 32336918 Page 10

---

## Page 11

105-2128

'SECRET!

not

nOw

recall,

had been picked up by the Belgian police

and

Jailed for

several days

The arrest,

he said,

based

on charges that those seized were "undesirables"

Sad they were subsoquently expalled from Belgium.

naittod that those srrested with hin had been discussing

Spain

and the

FRANCO government, but insisted that they

had not been participating in &-DRIL

meeting.

He also

tanistad

was 305, and had never been, & member of

Concerning the list of pseudonyhs, which SA. T-2

sinted were utilized by DRIL members; GUTIERREZ said he

vaguely recalled that Multy used-the

nick name "papa" while

he had heard MULLY speak of &

' "MIRKO." He, himself, has

always used the nine ILOt, which is a given name and not

& nick nahe or pseudonym.

He said he

never heard ox

any of the other names on this list.

Concerning SANTIAGO MARTINEZ DONOSO, GUTlERREZ

said he knew of & young man by this name, about 20 years

old, & Cuban citizen, whose father worked for Iberia Airlines

in Havana, Cuba.

Followipg GUTIERREZ' return to Havana, fron

kurope; in the late summer of 1960, he was contacted by

MUleY and the man known to him as ROJO, who informed him that

MARTINEZ was & member of the DRIL, and

that following the

bombings in Madrid,

been

seized by the FRANCO police and the cousin shot; that

MARTINEZ then made & desi with the FRANCO police for his

freedom in return for which he was to assassinate GUTIERREZ.

Shortly thereafter,

MARTINEZ appeared at GUTIERREZ' home

in Havana, on & pretext, whereupon GUTIERREZ confronted

MARTINEZ with the information furnished by MULEY, and ROJO.

He said MARTINEZ broke down and cried, but denied ever having

made any deal with the FRANCO government, stating that there

was no resson for hin to help them as they had killed his

cousin.

GUTIERREZ said he thoroughly questioned MARTINEZ

and finally arrived at. the conclusion that he was telling

the truth, and he then decided to question any further

information furnished to him by MULEY and ROJO.

GUT IERREZ

said he had no reason to believe that MARTINEZ actually

intended to kill hin.

He said he knew of no other name

1OX MARTINEZ, APUMS EPON SANTIAGO MARTINEZ DONOSO, aDd that 11(5)

-54-

SECRET

NW 45875 DocId: 32336918

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SA 105-2118

SECRET

1ao. 30

reason: to believe that

this was not MArtINez'

true nano. He' never saw MARTINEZ

after this encounter.

• Concerning the "ELOY" mission, GUTIERREZ

said there

absolatoly no truth in the facts

sileged by SA T-2 in

tbis regard.

He said, however, that

be had information that

CASTRO's government was furnishing money

to the Communist

Party in Spain.

He stated in this regard, that a friend,

whom ho said ho did

nd copied the contents of

*letter,

n6 Mndrid, Spain,

directed

in Envans,

Culcers

fron MARIN

the Caban-Embasey in woota

He sard this letter nade reference

Fo. C00 TReE Bast

-CEPERIN RAUL DIAT

ARGUELLES

who was Chief

of the Departamento Tecnico

de vestigaciones. del Ajercito

Rebalde, 1n. H97800 ,

250, 200 dollars for the

trovolutionar cuda Spain./

Valley Morning Star, & morning newspaper pub-

lished daily at Harlingen,

Texas,

in its issue of April 22,

1961, contains

an article captioned,

"Ex Cuban Consul Refused

Interview With 13 Nationals

• Held at

McAllen."

According to

the article, which is date lined &t Mcallen,

Texas, RENS

DIA CHARTE,

former Cuban Consul in. Tamps.

-Florida,

was then

Tr/McATter In an attempt to obtain the release of 13 Cuban

nationals, then being held at the McAllen Facility of the

United States Imigration and Naturalization Service.

The article noted that ELOY

the 13 Cubans, la:

" GUTIERREZ MENOYO waS one of

whose renese was sought by DE CHARtE.

DECHARD, of M18m1

at Tampa for the CASTRO administration,

but has defected "

and now lives at Misnl

He advised that he has just

returned from Texas where he made a trip to see about

the release from custody of ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

being detained at cAllen, Texas, by the U.S. Border

Patrol. He advised that he has been contacted by numerous

federal authorities concerning GUTIERREZ MENOYO and has

furnished them with his views concerning GUTIERREZ MENOYO

and wanted to go on record again as vouching that GUTIERREZ

MENOYO is sincerely anti-CASTRO, and was not & communist.

He advised that GUTIERREZ MENOYO acted as & double agent

for CASTRO in exposing « Dominican plot because TRUJILLO

-55-

SECRET'

105-82298-130

HW

45875 DocId: 32336918

Page 12

---

