# docid-32291504

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC °21070гej

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10207-10280

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

166-4355-110

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SULLIVAN, JOHN G.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/29/1971

' PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, VENDITUOLI, FRANK

ANTHONY, FUG, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

**

v9.1

DocId: 32291501 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released undet bheRooht-E-67Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDER

BUREAU OF IN

ESTIGATION

RETORTING OFFICE

BOSTON

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

LUIGI GIOvANT

YANOCCHIC, aka

FUGITIVE

I0 #4336;

1F 7H-4

FRANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, ala

FUGITIVEL

IO #4346

DATE

f:129/71

REPORT MADE SY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3!12-6/25/71

..

SULLIVAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITAR - GAMRLING

7:871

REFERENCE:

Report of SA P. GRANT HARMON dated 4/19/71 at:

Boston,

lass.

Chicago airtel to Boston dated 4/14/71.

New Yorl: letter to Boston dated 4/29/71.

Boston airtel to Mew York dated 5/28/71.

Eoston teletype to Chicago dated 6/25/71.

-P-

TYPED!

meh

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

O NONE

RECOVERIES

AFPROVED

Avest

COPIESMAD

the,

3-Bureau (165-4355)

2-Chicago 1166-1572

2-New Yorl: (166-2516)

2-Mewark (160-1225)

2-Boston (166-845)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Copies conta page 5.

Dissemination Record oi Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

Division,

CC, AAG, CrIminal

Organtzaa, Crime

How Fwe!.

B:

Room.

7UJUL1Z1UN

Notations

COVER PIDE

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES LINO

PENDING PROSECUTIAN

OVER SIX MONTHS

EYES LINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

166-4355-

1110 Міся

JUL 6 1971

GPO: 18880-299-885

DocId: 32291504 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 111-14-2017

BS 166-345

JGS: meh'

1-USA, Providence, R.I.

1-Departmental Attorney, Providence, R.I.

MICHAEL LEVIN

I-Departmental

Attorney, Boston, Mass.

EDUARD F. HARRINGION, Jr.

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Will reinstitute investigation concerning activities

Of MAX INSERRO concerning the possibility of INSERPO being in

contact with subject HAvOCCHIo, it being noted investigation

along these lines previously conducted in 1969 and 1970.

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, WET YORK

Will report results of efforts to identify JACK VONY

(ph) as requested in referenced Boston airtel.

Will also advise results

of reauest for drivers

license check on GENNATA, VONY, Or JACAVONE .

Will advise the Boston Office of anv additional

information uncovered

as a result of recontact of NY 3104-C-TE.

Will continue efforts to locate the subjects in the

New York area.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK and HOBOKEN, NEW TERSEY

Will attenpt to identify JACK VONY (ph) through

indices, local police, Bureau sources and through contacts

with U.S. Treasury Department, in an effort to locate subiect

MANOCCHIO.

will also check for license licnese GENNATA, VONY

or JACAVONE.

=B.-

- COVER PACE

DocId: 32291504 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: *11-14÷2017

BS 166-845

TGS: meh

BOSTON

AT PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND

Will recontact logical relatives of subject in an

effort to uncover information concerning thereabouts of

subject.

Will maintain contacts with informants, police

authorities and other logical

sources for information con-

cerning whereabouts of subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Regular contacts maintained by the Boston Division

during investigative period of this report with CIs, PCIs and

C-IEs of the Boston Office concerning subjects MANOCCHIO and

VENDITUOLI met with negative results.

It is noted that the investigative period of this

report predates referenced report, and this was necessary

que to tne fact of information being received from an auxiliary

office after referenced report.

advised as follows:

By communication dated 4/28/71, the New York Office

following

Photographs of both subjects were shown to the

informants with negative results:

NY 6786-PC

NY

4658-PC

NY

6319-C

NY 5908-C

rOn 4/20/71, 1V 3104-C-TE advised SA MARIO 5. SIMEONE,

after viewing. photographs of both subiects, that they

unfamiliar to him: however, due to the fact that both

subjects

have friends in the Providence, R.I. area, the source felt

that should they be anywhere, within the NYC area, they would

probably de in contact with NICK BIANCO (NY file

92-3407), in

order to "earn their keen.:

BIANCO: it is noted, is a close

associate of JOSEPH! COLUMBO, and the

informant stated he would

attempt to determine if either subject had ever been in contact

with BIANCO in the past.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291504 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 311-14-2017

1992.771 75C: 2107 Hote).

BS 166-845

JGS: men

GENNARINO JOHN

DE LUCA (protect) 168 Glenwood st:,

Pawtucket,

R.I., advised SA P. GRANT HARMON, JR, 5/26/71 that

subject ANOCCHIO is allegedly residing at present in a small

town (not further identified) near Hoboken, N.J.

He is

dressing conservatively and in using the name MIKE GENNATA

(Dn) Or GENNETA (ph) .

MANOCCHIO is supposed to be associating

with one JACK VONY (ph) from the New York area.

This name is

similar to the name JACAVONE which might be considered as

ossible snelline of MANOCCHIO's associate.

MANOCCHIO is

supposed to be distributine counterfelt U.S. currenty with

VONY J

By communication dated 5/25/71, the Miami Division

advised that LM 1399-PC met a violent death in the recent

past.

On April 27, 1971, SA DENNIS M. CONDON advised that

BS 1159-C-TE currently confined to

the hospital, and unavail-

able for contact.

On 5/28/71. SIGNE COOPER (protect identity) 107

Hatfield

st.,

Partucket, B.I., advisad that hor new

number is 724-2978.

She advised

she has received no information

whatsoever concerning her father, FRAIK VENDITUOLT since

last contacted by the FBI:

D*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291504

Page 5

---

