# docid-32314917

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10338-10027

RECORD SERIES: KC

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-116-1486

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KC

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/02/1962

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45753

Docid: 32314917 Page 1

---

## Page 2

52-855

A kog VitaoGs 20 401s

DOTE

MACH OR Springisold the toat1220d

clothing fros a notor cor parked in

Janucon Connoy.

WAINBEGRE

had previonaly siased

thEE MAGS vOS

"out to soc han" and

CArCAIOnOd WAININIGES aRtOr ho

hod refugod

6O CORd IS 91,000

1n 1002•

ERNEST D. AIDERSON,

tomor Prosidont

of Teanster 100a3 543, 15

to etand tranl on 4/3/52 ou

of burglary

1n Johnsen County Caroul. Court,.

Olathe,

• and Grand Lercoay,

Thic charge

also atons fren his Anvolvonent vich WAINIRIGAR

thort of furnature fron a nodel hoco.

Cargos agoiust CAIuVRICIE

OB

chds anttor are stial outstanding.

adoisod that she has cotton sho improsalo

8ra3 J0KN B144 tost

the ray has gut so much procauro on ch

"Gilane" lately

that everyone 222

"Cl1g0o" 10 DEad 10

cagago in Allegal

, notivitlos end that no one soons to be s4191i0g

Batoly.

advisod thac sho

eisodie, and would vory Iffely be considorod sinoide giri friona.

sho saviaed, however

that sin hao not anaociated

i am the pasc

s0y02al vools w&s2

simon duo to a vocation trip aio has roconsis

taken and also duo to tha fact that walo an tile triy she not

an Badividual she will marry in tho near future.

uc ya20o furnished Intomation concemning the ropulation of

various majolga?

court judgod in Kanons City, 143502r1.

Re 860-c0 furalahed internation unich rollocta

that a

Chicago

corporatias say vory woll take over bho Playmate Bor which was

and now

operated by J0s JACeS.

Dolloning le e sumary of partinent infortion rocolved iron

KG "SToo alaco 3/22/62:

3/22/02

J. C. RESURAN, oha

Ole

Olson, me at the Origiaal Toy and Jobbing

Company and discussod a check rocoivod froz eno

wis c. NICHOLd

09868

PAGS T7O.

OTHER 4

NW 45753 DocId: 32314917

Page 2

---

