# docid-32306086

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10289-10216

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2208

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/05/1967

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

LCN, OUTFIT, GANGLAND MURDERS, GAMBLING ACT,

IDENT, MEMBERS, WI AREA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306086

Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE - 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

12/5/67

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via -

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-16773) mes

FROM : SAC, MILWAUKEE (92-262) (P)

prelim

ACOSA NOSTRA

SUBJECT:

LCN

AR - CONSPIRACY

Bishop

00: NEW YORK

Re Kansas City airtel

to Bureau, 11/15/67,

captioned,

"KC 586-C-TE; TECIP," reporting activities

of "Outfit" (LCN) members in various field Division

territories, including Milwaukee; the identities of

several killers in gangland murders in the Kansas Citv

area; and gambling activities of KC 586-C-TE and associates.

With respect to the fifteen LCN members identified

in the Milwaukee,

Madison, and Kenosha, Wisconsin, areas,

according to KC 586-C-TE, it should be noted that

informant's information confirms the identifications. of

the fifteen members, including the boss, underboss, of

the Milwaukee Family and the boss of the Madison Family

as previously made by MI 623-C-TE.

'Concerning the Wisconsin LCN members identified

by MI 586-C-TE.

should be noted that BENNIE DE SALVO

is BENEDETTO DI SALVO; DOM GULLO is DOMENICO GULLO; and

JIM CAUROSO iS JAMES VINCENT CARUSO.

16

Bureau (137-16773) CAM-F

1

- Chicago (92-1173) (Infaye

•(Regular Mail) (RM)

1

- Detroit (92-914) (Info)

(AM- RM)

2

• Kansas City (137-4529) (AM-RM)

1

- Little Rock (Info)

(AM-RM) REC 46

982=6054-2208

1

- New York (92-2300) (Info) (AM-RM)

1 - St. Louis

1 - Milwaukee

(92-262) (Info)

(AM-RM)

16 DEG. 8 1967

CNR/kdb

UNRECORDED

( 12)

XEROX

DEC 141967

7 QDC 201967

Sent .

_ M

Per

DocId: 32306086 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MI 92-262

From the foregoing, it should be noted that

KC 586-C-TE is 100 per cent correct in the fifteen LCN

member identifications when compared with the same

identifications previously made by MI 623-C-TE. This

is being pointed out for the information of the Bureau,

Kansas City, and auxiliary offices as an indication of

the degree of reliability of KC 586-C-TE.

LEAD

KANSAS CITY DIVISION

At Kansas City. Missouri

At the next opportune time when contacting KC 586-

C-TE, obtain as much information as possible concerning the

following:

1.

The reasons for and persons involved in the

slaying of ANTHONY BIERNAT, Kenosha, Wisconsin, in January,

1963.

BIERNAT's body was found in an abandoned basement

on the abandoned

site of the Bong Air Force Base, Kenosha

County, Wisconsin.

Indications are that BIERNAT, an independent

jukebox operator, would not Accede to demands of the outfit

Persons whom Milwaukee

considers knowledgeable about BIERNAT's murder or may have

been actual participants in this slaying are: STEVE

DE SALVO; FRANK STELLOH ( a strong arm man and ex-con, who

now works for FRANK BALISTRIERI, the Milwaukee boss);

WILLIAM "WEASER" COVELLI, who is a Kenosha jukebox operator;

DOMINIC "POPS" PRINCIPE of Kenosha, Wisconsin, and Zurich,

Illinois; "BUSTER" BALESTRERE; and

• JOE GURERA,

both of

Kansas City, who were working"for FRANK BALISTRIERI in Milwaukee

in January, 1963.

In the event discussion of this matter

with informant might alienate him or otherwise cause undue

concern when considered in relation to his overall value

as a TE, it is being left to the discretion of Kansas City

as to the propriety of questioning the informant along these

lines.

2

DocId: 32306086 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MI 92-262

Is informant aware of any division of organized

gambling

in Kenosha, Wisconsin? It is reported that in this

split at Kenosha, one group, including "WEASER" COVELLI

and JOHN RIZZO,

is under the control of FRANK BALISTRIERI

at Milwaukee,

and the other group is controlled by the Chicago

organization.

10.

• Did KC 586-C-TE attend any LCN meetings, including

any initiations of new members, while he was in Milwaukee?

If not, was he aware of any such meetings of select members

such as

• FRANK BALISTRIERI, STEVE DE SALVO, PETE BALISTRIERI,

and JOE CAMINITI? If so, who attended and what transpired?.

11. Any other information the informant can furnish

concerning the outfit and

gambling or other illegal activities

in Wisconsin.

DocId: 32306086

Page 4

---

