# docid-32327719

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90065-10005

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 97-4383-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :. HQ

TITLE: 1.

DATE:

11/16/1961

• PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

PEDRO VICTOR RIOG HARDQUIN

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId:32327719 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

263 (Rey 5-" -59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATICN

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

NOV 1 5 1961

MIAMI

10/25 - 31/61

TYPED BY

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN E. MC HUGH

JEM:

m fm

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

PEDRO VICTOR ROIG HARDOUIN

IS - CUBA

DECLASSIRIGATION AND/OR,

RA - CUBA

RELEASE OF CIA IIFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 1-8-98

SLO/KSK

REFERENCES: Report of SA JOHN E. MC HUGH, 9/27/61, Miami.

1-24-98

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

-C-

(JEK).

HERER

1: 1/25/45

9168540/GCL

-ADMINISTRATIVE-

JIC)

Subject during the course of the interview appeared to

be cooperative. He answered questions in a straightforward

manner.

He also volunteered the information that at one time

he harbored anti-American sympathies. He attributed this to the

influence that the CASTRO propaganda exercised over him. He

denied that he had ever been officially associated with any Cuban

intelligence agency or law enforcement agengy, although JULIU

HERNANDEZ SUAREZ claimed that he saw an identification cand made

out in the name of the subject indicating that the latter,was

associated with the National, Police of cuba.

This information

was not available at the time of interview with the subject,

although RUIG did state that he was not at any time connected with

PROVED

TIES MADE:

9

SPECIAL AGEN

N CHARGI

Bureau (96-4383) (RM)

1. - INS, Miami. (A11261664) (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

974383-12

12 NOV 17 1961

30- 65

EX-IIE

• 1 - Miami (105-2985)

1- San Juniorid

let 17/1/61-

Debute 105-80969

DOOR ROSSE DIN

BECO

DisSEMINATION RECORD Of ATTACHED REPOR

NOTATIONS

AGENCY-

REQUEST RECD.

Copy to! CLA/Stäte RABi)

HOR SE

0at/081/02

DATE FWD. -..

-1053-2-0102

OW FWD...

Bota 11-214-66115

PODIUT NOT

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 18-76324-1

REVERSE SIDE FOR

ADO. DISSGAMATION.

DocId: 32327719

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Shits C

-7-15

444 PM. '61

RECO

i to are.

626-7857

HSCA

.. 12.ep 612

DocId: 32327719 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-2985

SECRET

that CASAY was subsequently shot by the underground and

ORDONEZ was killed in an automobile accident. All four

of the individuals had formerly worked in the sabotage

group headed by CUBRIA and were to work with CUBRIA in

order to implement the assassination plot against CASTRO.

RoIG stated that he discussed the plot with them but was

not a part of the plot.

The plan to kill CASTRO involved

placing a bomb in CASTRO's automobile.

ROIG stated that

he suggested that this plan be deferred until such time

as more Cubans turned against CASTRO, for he felt that

time would help; however, plans were made to implement

the attack on CASTRO's life.

CUBRIA arrived in Cuba

around, the early part of July, 1961, and a few days later,

while conferring with the four previously mentioned indi-

viduals who were to assist him in his attack on CASTRO,

CUBRIA was arrested. ROIG stated that the four individuals

with whom CUBRIA was plotting were the ones who actually

arrested him and turned CUBRIA over to the Cuban G-2. No

action was taken against the other four and ROIG stated

he feels that they were cooperating with the Cuban Govern-

ment at all times and had no intention of assassinating

CASTRO.

ROIG stated that on the night of July 5, 1961,

subsequent to the arrest of ARMANDO CUBRIA, G-2 agents

came to his home about 2:00 A.M. and took him to G-2

headquarters in Havana, Cuba.

At the time, ARSENIO

FRANKO, JESUS CASAY and MAXIMO ORDONEZ were present.

ARMANDO FRANKO was not present. They were there as

spectators and were not under arrest. / ROIG stated that

FURY He stated that the questions were not directed at

his.

activities but rather regarding the activities of

ARMANDO CUBRIA and his sister, VICKI ROIG. ROIG stated

that RICARDO, MORALES) NAVARETTE

, who was a G-2 agent at

the time and

"who is now residing at 541 Southwest Ith,

Street, Miami, Florida, was also at G-2 headquarters

during the interview, although MORALES did not participate

in the interview of ROIG. i

All CubA

SECREW

DocId: 32327719 Page 4

---

