# docid-32299911

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10191

HQ

92-6054-2377

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/09/1968

'PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERSHIP, LIVING, DECEASED, ILLEGAL

GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299911

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John Ti

"Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

To

FroM

a subject:

5

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM.

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-5054)

DATE:

8/9/68

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

00:

New York

Re San Diego letter to the Bureau, 7/19/68.

SD 1064-O-TE was recontacted on 7/25/68 and

furnished

the following information on

Ta. Cose Nostra (ION)

and other hoodluns:

2. LOS ANGELES DIVISION

1. Los Angeles ICN Leadershiy Meeting with Informant

a:' ICN Involvement in Gambling, Cabazon, calitornia.

Informant advised on 7/23/68 he drove to Cabazon,

california, in the vicinity of

Palm springs, and contacted

"ahe Greek" SIMPONIS,

well-known hoodlum gambler and

a card gambling casino on the

orerator of the desert Band gImpors adudsed nin he vas

outskirts of Palm Springs.

leaving the following day for Mexico

City, where he sits

EX-100

= Bureau

= 92-6054) (RM)

137-9187)

3 - New York li

+ 92-2300) (R11)

• 137-13139)

₴

* Los Angeles (92-1112)

Sacramento (RM)

• Chicago (92-1173) (RM

• Detroit (02-914)

(RM)

las vegas

(92-625 Info) (RM)

3

• San Diego

5: 92-229)

(2 - 137-1088)

JDA: kdw

(20)

56 AUG 2 0 1968

2 AUG 12 1968

UNrECorDEd COPY FILEDIN

MEC

NATH

DocId: 32299911 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

(Los Angeles Division advised that according to

LA 4448-C-TE, CHARLE DE MARCO, Whom he has Known for a number

oI years, Is a tout and a gambler who frequents local race

tracks, and he claims to be a "fixer"

saw enforcement people. Here close associate of a well-known

criminal attorney in Los Angeles, PAUL CARUSO. He is

described as WMA, Italian (Neopolitan), about 55, 5'5"

160 pounds, full head of sandy gray hair, wears light

gray glasses.)

Informant has been in contact several times recently

with DE MARCO aS DE MARCO is acquainted with ROBAN In the

cabazon, California, gambling picture.

Informant stated that in a

recent conversation

DE MARCO,

DE MARCO claimed he had

"a min In the windey" who

works Hollywood Park and Santa Anita race tracks.

DE. MARCO

indicated that this

man handles a great deal of money during

the racing season and Is in an excellent position to switch

bogus money or cash counterfeit or stolen money orders.

DE MARCO told the informant that if he has any access

to such

items to contact him so that they can dispose of them through

this contact.

5. (ENU) GIAMMONA

The informant stated that whie having coffee with

INCATA on the morning of 7/24/68, LICATA mentioned during

the conversation that GIAMMONA had a heart attack and in

addition had lost a leg. The informant did not ask any further

questions and assumed it was JOE GIAMMONA, a former capo who

is no longer active. Informant was asked

meant ANGELO GIAMMONA, tO which the Informant replied that

now he wasnot sure to which GIAMMONA LICATA was referring.

no pate saa have

II. THE SACRAMENTO DIVISION

Informant advised that he

had been in telephonic contact

on 7/25/68 with JIMMY "The Weasel" FRATIANNO and that

FRATIANNO was upset with having recently been presented with

papers reflecting he is being sued by the Mercantile National

Bank of Chicago for $640, 000.00 as a result of the trucks

financed by that bank.

In addition to this, FRATIANNe

told the informant he is broke and his landlady has given him

three days notice to move out: FRATIANNO stated that he had

=7=

DocId: 32299911 Page 3

---

