# docid-32289372

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10148

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2307

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEGAT, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

06/23/1970

4

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1998

SGI, TRA, SURVEILLANCE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS:

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32289372

217

Page 1

---

## Page 2

leased under the John F. Kenngdy Assassination

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONA

RM NO. iO

TION

101-11:6

NITED STATES-C. ERNMENT

Memorandum

Recor

CONFID

Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107-Hote):

AFPROPRIATE AGENC

IN/ AND FUELD OFFTCE

An Is Bi mended

9.23=81

DATE

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) CASSTED MOISTES PATE

6

CLASSTFIFD DECISIONS FINATIZED

By DEP 1070181

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13): (P)

232

FICATTON

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

AR C

DECIASSIFTED EY5.CE8 SEL

2/14.

GIANCANA,

asir led by tosa

Exempt from toa

UTING SLIP

OFFI

ON 41/5/85

DED AER

Fiddlinite

9-8-79

Reference

Mexico City letter 5/25/70 (@)U

On 6/17/70/Cs MEX 287 ladvised that the subject

was back in Mexico.

"He returned from his trip the previous

week.

He had been

gone for about a month and

was very un-

communicative about where he had been. (a)

However, he was definitely in New

York because he

contacted the LERNERs there; this is ROBERT LERNER, the

brother..of ALAN J. LERNER.

It is not considered that LERNER

should be contacted under

any circumstances concerning his

relationship

with the subject as this would tend to prejudice

the source.

Source advised that subject was to have sponsored

a reception at his home in Cuernavaca for JACK JACKTER, :

head of Columbia Pictures for Mexico, who was getting married

SSTA

SVIH

LIVO

This reception was

to be 6/21/70; however, JACKTER got out

of this invitation

an invitation from a close friend of

his fiancee. (&)

SLIP(S)

ADVISIX.

APP

Source noted that subject's new house is located

in a compound behind the Hosteria Las Quintas in Cuernavaca.

IVINOD NOt

letter pasty he tom don the at.

Reportedly he is currently refurbishing this house which is a

Mexico City

& Metter 7/3/68 reported information that subject was very

NG

PICES

-friendly with SALVADOR CASTENADA, the manager of Las Quintas,

and the possibility was considered that he might have been

an investor in that

Hostaurant hotel. (55)(2125hment which 15 a eombined

CS MEX 287 advised thatshevsaw

vanitem

newspaper

that JANICE HARPER

had

justubeenks gnedB

Locals

66

-Bureau

(1-Liaison)

N'RECIO

(2-Chicago) (92-349)

(I-New York) (Info) •

4/30

70p 20EbL

BE JUN

: 30aia! 1 :

1970e

1-Mexico

City SOROS

Burg

RSC : k wassifies

(7)

Declassi

OADE

3184605044

5010-108-02

9-1125

Bay U.S. Savings Bonds Ragulars on the Payroll Savings Plan

gly 10113

1568053

DocId: 32289372

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 17-14-2017

T._.

MEX 92-13

CONFYENTIAL

Roulette Records. He said this was

the girl he previously

Identitled as a New York showgirl w

was staying with

subject in Acapulco in 1/70. 0

. On 5/28/70 JOAN BANNISTER, secretary, Bureau of

Narcotics and DangerousIDrugs, American Embassy, Mexico City,

advised that she had learned from her mother, who is a

realtor in Cuernavaca, that the subject had bought a new

house near the Hosteria Las Quintas.

the arrangements to build a house next doór. Subject

purchased this house from the ScHultzes, a prominent local

family.

Anglo-American Directories for Cuernavaca for

former years list GERALD W. SCHULTZ, Quinta San Cristobal,

Colonia Las Quintas, telephone 2-25-00, Cuernavaca.

He is

listed as the President of Casa Calpini. 00 M

However, Mrs. BANNISTER advised 6/3/70 that RUTH •

DORNBERG (Cuernavaca realtor known to have dealings with

subject) told her that this house in Las Quintas was now

for sale. t

It is noted that Mrs. BANNISTER was certain this

information was correct. However, it is noted that

CS MEX 287 reported that subject was spending a lot of money

redecorating this house.

It appears

that he is selling the

house without ever moving in.

On 5/26/70 Attorney JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES, Chief of

Inspection Service, Mexican Immigration,

requested ary new

information available concerning the subject. He was furnished

with the addresses on Amsterdam Street, Mexico City and

Las Quintas in

the subject. (8)

ernavaca as possible residences relating to

On 5/27/70 MEX 170 advised that on the previous

day he and JORGE ALDANA IBARRA, another inspector of Mexican

Immigration; were sent by Attorney VAZQUEZ ROBLES to Cuernavaca

to conduct investigation in this matter.

They only made

contact at the house at Nubes #2.

The maid there, JOSEFINA

PARRERA, identified a photograph of the subject as the owner

of this house

However, she advised he had not been there

for months. (ON(U)

2

CONTENTIAL

300-80:N1S

DocId: 32289372 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 05C 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NATIAL

MEX 92-13

They also determined that he had not

patronized

the local golt course for a long time. due

ICS MEX 287 advised that friends of subject indicate

he is no longer playing golf. He conjectures that subject's

attorney, JORGE CASTILLO,

has prohibited this activity to

avoid exposure.fog

Information copy is furnished to New York because

of information that

subject reportedly recently was visiting

LEAD

MEXICO CITY

AT MEXICO, D.F.

Will through CS MEX 287 and other

sources

continue

Follow and report. on subject's activities.

in Mexico.

CONFTPVNETAI

3

901-91

DocId: 32289372

Page 4

---

