# docid-32330815

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90093-10021

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2799-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATF.:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/14/1958

10

JOSEPH JOHN PECORARO

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NH 45908

10

DocId: 32330815 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO 92-46

ADMINISTRATIVE

Inquiry regarding the Nola Printing Company,

530 Iris

Jefferson Parish,

is beingsconducted

in connection with the investigation on JOS4PH

PORETTO, local Top

Hoodlum, who is the manager

of this

company.

INFORMANTS'S

39, Masonie me WiN Deer, Docal Bard

March 5, 1958.

NO-I-2 Is NORMAN PERRY, Investigator, Internal

Revenue Service,

New Orleans, contacted by SA L. M.

SHEARER, JR., on January 3, 1958.

NO T-3 is HENRY K. WEINBERG, Bell Auto Sales,

1810 St. Claude Avenue, New Orleans, a former employee

Of NOFIO PECORARO, contacted on March 7, 1958 and re-

quested that his identity be concealed.

NO T-L is

PCI,

by SA RAY E. ROCKHOLD on Febauary 27, 1958.

contacted

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

Besides PCI L

, the following

are under consideration as PCI's:

ANTHONY GLORIOSO: bar operator and book maker.

In the past, he was a partner of SAMUEL DI PIAZZI, local

local Top Hoodlum.

New Orleans slot machine

operator, who is acquaintance of CARLOS MARCELLO, TOp

Hoodlum, and the local Top Hoodlums in the New Orleans

area.

He is reported to be acquainted with the general

criminal setup in the New Orleans area.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

ADMINISIRATIVE PAGE

-8 -

NW 45908 DocId: 32330815

Page 2

---

## Page 3

2....

NO 92-46

OTHER 4

A handbook operator who is

a brother of Chief Criminal Deputy Sheriff EARL ROLLING

of Jefferson Parish.

He is acquainted with MARCELLO and

the local Top Hoodlums in the New Orleans area, and will

be in a position to

lurnish information regarding their

activities. Contacts

with these individuals, it is

believed,

will increase the coverage of the activities

Of JOSEPH PECORARO.

LEADS

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

(1)

Will maintain contact with informants

in the New Orleans area for information regarding the

activities of subject.

(2) Will check the records of the New Orleans

Police Department to determine whether HENRY A. VIRGA

has been involved in any criminal activities.

(3)

and Savings Association.

(4)

Will, through contact with the Jefferson

Parish Sheriff's Office, who investigated the murder of

DENNIS MELANCON, endeavor to ascertain the identity of

the relative of

subject who was assisting in the operation

of the Ranch Bar.

(5)

Will report information obtained by the

Bureau from the Internal Revenue Service when received

from the Bureau.

AI GRETNA, LOUISIANA

Will, through public records, endeavor to

ascertain the ownership listing for the Ranch Bar.

REFERENCE

at New Orleans.

Report of SA JOHN I. REYNOLDS, dated 1/10/58,

ADMINISTRATIVE

PAGE

- 9-

Megad

IW 45908 DocId: 32330815 Page 3

---

