# docid-32404637

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10338-10011

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

NSA

R. N. FIELDING

NONE

:

THIRD AGENCY REFERRALS: NSA

05/11/1992

: 7

SUBJECTS :

JFK ASSASSINATION

UNIT INDEX

.-----

John F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 55355 Date:

11-22-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

01/13/04

COMMENTS:

JFK-M-22 : F12: 20030818-980490 : UNIT INDEX

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10338-10011

HH 55355

DocId: 32404637

Page

---

## Page 2

злесору.

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE: MARYLAND 20755-6000

CIA HAGAO CLOGOT ON TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

UNITCO

SUCINTINNILAL

Serial: LR/049/92

11 May 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS, CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBJECT: S.J. Resolution 282 - The Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992

- INFORMATION MEMORANDUM

1. This responds to your request for information regarding National Security

Agency (NSA) holdings that may be relevant to S.J. Resolution 282. Our preliminary

search uncovered holdings that are comprised of NSA's responses to inquiries by the

Warren Commission and the Church Committee and several NSA reports. These doc-

uments number approximately 50 pages.

2. Our preliminary check of FOIA requests indicates that we have processed

approximately 17 requests relevant to the Kennedy assassination, with five requests

still open. We are currently checking our files to ascertain if any material was

released under FOLA.

3. If we can be of any further assistance, please contact me or Rhea Siers, of this

office at (301) 688-7438.

712=

R. N. FIELDING

Legislative and Regulatory Counsel

HH 55355 DocId: 32404637 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE. MARYLAND 20755-6000

STATES OF AMEND

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR SERIAL: N513-173-93

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIOR August 1993

IN THIS DOCUMENT

MEMORANDUM FOR The Director, Historical Review Group,

Center for the Study of Intelligence,

central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records

1. Please find attached 13 Foreign Broadcast Information

Service cables which originated with the Central Intelligence

Agency.

We have found these documents in our archival holdings

and believe that they are responsive to Public Law 102-526, the

JFK Records Collection Act.

2.

Please review the cables for your equities and advise us

as to whether of not there is any information which should be

withheld. We have reviewed them and have no objection to their

release because they contain no classified NSA information. We

request a reply by 20 August 1993. If you have any questions

regarding this matter, please contact my office representative,

Renee Frank, on (301) 688-6798.

dorothea 0. Robinson

DOROTHEA A. ROBINSON

Chief

Information Security

Encl:

a/s

HW 55355

DocId: 32404637

Pagerian Arrania.

L0I0 1

---

## Page 4

ROUTING AND TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: (Name, office symbol, room number,

bulkling, Agancy/Past)

1.

Date

13 Aug 93

Initials

Date

8/13

2.

John C. - for action

3.

CIA SPECAL COLLBCTIONS

RELEASE IN SULL

2000

Action

Approval

File

Note and Retum

For Clearanco

Per Conversation

As Requested

For Correction

Circulete

Proparo Roply

For Your Information

See Me

Comment

Investigato

Signature

coordination

Justity

REMARKS

To 2: John,

Pleue respond to 15A

on allacked request or JFK

Aside from possible copyright

John

DO NOT una this form afarances, and similar actions

s, concurrences, dleposals

FROM: (Nama, org. symbol, Agency/Post)

Room No. - Bldg.

Phone No.

5041-102

GPO: 19870-196-409

OPTIONAL FORM 41 (Rov. 7-76)

FARR (41 (FR) 101-11201

HW 55355

DocId: 32404637 Page 4

CALL peace

Frank right

arag Monday

No Aug

---

## Page 5

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FORT GEORGE G. MEADE, MARYLAND 20755-6000

N513-163-93

18 August 1993

CIA HAS NO OSJSCTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR, HISTORICAL REVIEW GROUP,

CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE, CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBJECT: JFK Assassination Records

1. Thank you for your correspondence of 12 July 1993 in

which you referred a memorandum to us under the provisions of

Public Law 102-526, The JFK Records Collection Act.

We have

determined that the legislative counsel memo of 27 September 1978

does not contain any information which would be classified by the

National Security Agency (see Tab A). We recommend that it be

released.

2. .

We also have a document from our holdings that we

believe is responsive to P.L. 102-526. The attached, draft

statement was to have been made by the Director of Central

Intelligence, Robert Gates (see Tab B). Please review the

statement for your equities and advise us as to whether or not

there is any information which should be withheld.

We have

reviewed it and have no objection to its release because it

contains no classified NSA information. We request a reply by 24

August 1993.

If you have any questions regarding this matter, please

contact my office representative, Renee Frank, on (301) 688-6798.

Arothea A. Robinson

DOROTHEA A. ROBINSON

Chief

Information Security

Encis:

a/s

Receined 25 Aug

Ouz item I NSA

for coord is RIf

Let them know

bout fate?

then

WH 55355 DocId: 32404637 FOR OFFICIAl BICE MARS

---

## Page 6

ОДРАУГІ

cal 71-4140

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Directorate Executive Registry

FACSIMILE COVER SHEET

CHAND TAITE

FROM:

DATE: 27 Aug 97

DIRNSA

TO:

DCI DÉCI

EXDIR/CIA EXDIRVICA ADCI/MS

ORGANIZATION:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

SUBJECT:. Desk Note: Inadvertent Release of Classified Data

Responsive to JFK Assassination Records Act

(FOUO)

CLASSIFICATION: .S-cCO

FAX NUMBER:

THIS FAX IS 2

PAGES (INCLUDING THIS COVER SHEET)

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

Please make appropriate distro. Thank you.

27900197445:36

TRANSMITTED BY: Vịkk1 Montero, EXREG

OFFICE:

• (801) 688-6419

968-9201 secure

STU-III FAX Number: (301) 688-4855

HW 55355

DocId: 32404637 Page 6

---

## Page 7

HH

55355

Don d: 30101527

Page

SECRET

DIRECTOR

27 August 1997

TO: DCI DDCI

SUBJECT: Inadvertent Release of Classified Data

Responsive to JFK Assassination Records

Act (FOUD)

(S-000) I have been informed of the inadvertent

disclosure of classified information on 19 August

relatod to the publie release of NISA documents respan-

sive to the JFK Assassination Records Act This disco

Bure occurred when the JFK Assassination Records

Review Board (AARB) Staff released to the National

Archives for public access redacted copies of NSA

records with coversheets containing classified informa-

tion still attached. Fifty-three of the 87 documents

released to the public contained classified data, prima-

nity titles of reports, revealing targeting of specific

countries diplomatic and military communications in

1963. This information was accessed by both represen-

tatives of the media and researchers. Upon recognition

of the mistake, the ARRB Staff immediately replaced

the classified coversheets with unclassified versions.

(FOUO) The media coverage of this release focused

primarily on the contents of the messages and not the

sources of the information which were revealed on the

covershasts. An interview on NPR with a writer for the

Washington Post concerning the release did focus, in

MANDLE VIA CORINT CHANNELS ONLY

-SECRET

GECRET

part, on the extraordinary capability NSA had to

eavesdrop" on and collect information from foreign

NSA diplomats around the world in the pre-computer age.

(FOUO) Although it is still too early to determine

what impact this release will have on NSA's sources

and methods, State Department and our Second Par-

ties have been notified of this inadvertent release and

an investigation of the process which led to the release

is being conducted by NSA's Office of Security.

4Q

KENNETH A. MINIHAN

Lieutenant General, USAF

cc: EXDIR/CIA

EXDIRICA

ADCI/MS

Derived From: NSAICSSA 129-2

3 September 1991

Dedassify On. Source Marked OADR

Date of Source: 8 Sep 1991

OSA

HANDLE VIA CONTAT CHANNELS ONLY

SECRET

SE

02

19%

01:14PM

---

## Page 8

U..

dori

(CLASSIFICATION OF MATERIAL TRANSMITTED)

SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

DATE: 9/2/97

SENDING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

734-1819

RECEIVING SECURE/AX TELEPHONE NUMBER: 703) 6613-3060

NUMBER OF PAGES (Including Transmittal Form and Covershest, if applicable) - 3

FROM: Marget Kugustine / EXPIR Staff

(Name / Office% Extension)

SUBJECT:

-!!

TO:

15hn

(ADDRESSEE / ORGANIZATION / OFFICE / EXTENSION)

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

117

RELEASE OE CIA INPORIVATION

: 3.

: 4.

6.

8

9.

• 10.

PECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: Ves our concessation dexas l

anse

CIA walemen

Thanks

RELEASING OFFICIAL:

(PRINTED NAME)

(SIGNATURE)

RECEIVING STATION USE ONLY

Please receipt for material by entering time of receipt/signature and transmit back to sending station.

DATE / TIME:

- SIGNATURE:

FORM

10-92

HH 55355

4383A

(CLASSIFICATION OF MATERIAL TRANSMITTED)

DocId:32404637

Page 8

---

