# docid-32304753

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection AOt of 1992 749 05c 2107 More.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10383

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-420

Document, Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

• TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/30/1963

9

LCN, NEWSPAPER, PH INQUIRER, PH BULLETIN, VALACHI,

JOSEPH, MAFIA, GAMBLING A/O CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 NEWS ARTIC

v9.1

DocId: 32304753 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

RELENSE

DATE: 11-314°20Y? 2-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via -

Alrtel

FBI

Date:

8/30/63

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-1027)

LA

COSA NOSTRA;

AR - CONSPIRACY

00 NEW YORK

Re Atlanta airtel 8/28/63 to Bureau and Philadelphia,

no cc New York or Newark.

Enclosed for the Bureau are articles appearing

in "Philadelphia Inquirer" on 8/28/63 and 8 29 63, captione

"Leary: Gamblers Take $100 Million a Years" and "GIBBONS Says

Police Get Huge Payoff From Rackets,

" respectively,

For Information Newark and New York, following

is contents of referenced airtel:

Warden D.M. HERITAGE, U.S• Penitentiary, Atlanta,

and local office, Bureau of Narcotics, contacted on 8/21/63

by L.J. MURPHY and J.B. BRUNT representing themselves to

be reporters for the "Philadelphia Bulletin."

Warden HERITAGE states these individuals seeking

information re background of JOSEPH VALACHI and his mental

condition at time at U.S, Penitentiary, Atlanta. Warden

3 - Bureau (92-6054) (Encls.-2) (R.M.)

- Atlanta (92-387) (R.M.)

- New York (92-2300) (R.M.)

- Newark (92-1203) (R.M.)

- Philadelphia

1 - 92-1027

1.- 137-657

JRP: jP

(11)

EX 104

REC 4 92-605446420

7968

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32304753 Page 2*

---

## Page 3

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027

In regards to the "tip" alleged to have been re-

ceived by the

"Bulletin" the following information may be

of Interest:

PH-269-C, who can be characterized as reliable

was contacted by ADRIAN LEE on Wednesday,

3263, 1 endeavor to a tental ere LE co le contact

Philadelphia AR Subject WILLIE WEISBERG. LEE told the

Informant

and wanted to contact WEISBERG In this regard. Informant in-

quired as to why LEE would contact WEISBERG, to which LEE re-

plied that WEISBERG furnished him Information.

Philadelphia does not

basis of a tip to the "Bulletin" how If WEISBERG would be the

to the effect that VALACHI's

information was not reliable.

It does not appear probable,

however, inasmuch as WEISBERG during the current week has beer

Ing inquiry on 8/26,27/63.

The above is for information of interested offices

and to alert them as to possible inquiry by MURPHY and BRUNT

in regards to VALACHI.

If any additional information is ob-

tained by the Philadelphia Division in this regard, 1t w1ll

be forwarded to the Bureau and interested offices.

FROHBOSE

-3.

DocId: 32304753

Page 3

---

