# docid-32349254

## Page 1

Date: 12/20/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John F.

AGENCY INFORMATION

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection det of

1992

444

USC

AGENCY : CIA

2 107

Notel.

Case#: NW 53199

RECORD

NUMBER : 104-10071-10158

Date: 06-08-2017

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : JMWAVE

TO • DIRECTOR

TITLE : FIELD INFORMATION REPORT: *ATTEMPTS OF ROLANDO

MASFERRER ROJAS TO CONTINUE HIS ASSOC. WITH HAITIAN

EXILES IN IHEIR OPERATIONS AGAINST HAITIN

DATE : 11/26/1964

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS

WITHHELD

HAITI EXILES

MASFERRER, R

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 07/30/93

JFK15 : F13: 1993.07.30.18:03:56:370059

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10071-10158

HW 53199

DocId: 32349254

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

NFO. 564

ROUTING

S

FROM.

ACTION:

INFO:

JMWAVE

IW

34

1

: 2

DDP ;

ADDP,

SOD

FI/INT 6;(RI7AN

ile in : 200-120-61

um. Moy

har

DO/H, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CT/OPS, CI/IC 2, FL, FI/D

WH/SA 12 AWH 8, VR FILE:

SECRET 2521527

IN

30666

12p

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR

R INTEL DYVOUR IMPALM PBRUMEN

SUPDATA: UOAMBER-6. FROM CONVERSATIONS WITH PAUL

FERMIN JOSEPH AND EATHER DIEGO MADRIGA

NOV 26: 0222z, 64

H TA

HDC

I SDOM CITE WAVE 5253

EVOINED AND COMEROL CORTE

MATCHED

CT

TOUSSAINT,

IN NEW YORK

3P

R

150 de

ALVAREY

15 - 18 NOVEMBER. RID: INDEX

FILED 2521522

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

COUNTRY:

HA I TI/CUBA

a SUBJ: ATTEMPTS OF ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS TO CONTINUE HIS

ASSOGIATION WITH HAITIAN EXILES IN THEIR OPERATIONS

ACA INST

'MICROFILME

15: - 18 NOVEMBER 1964

JAN 2 8 1985

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (23 NOVEMBER 1954)

UFG-6267

POS, MICRO, SER

SOURCES FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT ONE TIME

RISIDED IN HAITI AND THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. HE STILL MAINTAINS

FAIRLY CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH OFFICIALS OF THOSE COUNTRIES.

SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLES

TW COMMENTA

IN THE PAST.

IN

RY

WASHESCI

ISTRACS

12

8

WH/REG

RELEASING Be

on sure

/J.M. DELANEY

HH 53199

DocId: 32349254

Page 2

TDCS DB-315/01477-64

XX ROUTINE

BASED ON

DATE: DISTRIBUTED:

26-NOVEMBER 0914 Z-64

G LIAISON

PRIORITY

UFG -6267

NP/VOAMBER 6

200 - 120-61

82 7/9/4

Masterrer 8634

---

## Page 3

CO. FIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY

DATE OF

*INFO.

HAITI / CUBA *

tid

TDCSDB-315-01477-64

DISTR. 26 NOVEMBER 1964

15-18 NOVEMBER 1964

SUBJECT

ATTEMPIS OF ROLAND MASFERRER ROJAS TO CONTINUE HIS

ASSOCIATION WITH HAITIAN EXILES IN THEIR OPERATIONS

AGAINST HAITI

PLACE Bi

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (23 NOVEMBER 1964)

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL:

REF

IN 30666

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG=6267

FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT ONE TIME RESIDED IN HAITI AND THE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. HE STILL MAINTAINS FAIRLY CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH OFFICIALS

OF THESE COUNTRIES. SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN

RELIABLE IN THE PAST:

1.

PAUL TOUSSAINT AND FERMIN JOSEPH HAVE CONCLUDED THAT

THEY HAVE LOST CONTROL OF THE ARMS THAT WERE TRANSPORTED TORMIAMI

201-42669 C/T Cuba A Maite 3

BY ROLAND

MASFERRER ROJAS, CUBAN EXILE INVOLVED IN THE HAITIAN

EXILE OPERATION PREVIOUSLY SCHEDULED FOR OCTOBER 1964.

THE ARMS

ARE IN THE CARE OF ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER IN MIAMI AND

MASFERRER WILL NOT AUTHORIZE THEIR RETURN TO THE HAITIAN EXILES BECAUSE

HE IS AFRAID THAT THEY WILL USE THEM TO LAUNCH AN OPERATION

WITHOUT HIS PARTICIPATION:

2. MASFERRER IS DISCUSTED WITH TOUSSAINT AND JOSEPH FOR

HAVING CUT HIM OUT OF THE OPERATION. AT ABOUT 11:09 P.M.

his materlal contains faformatioo stectlog the National: Defense of the United States withlo the meantag of the pioasee se

OSC, Sces, 700 and 74, the transinission or peretation of which in soy manner to un unautberlaed person Is prohibitea t

CONFIDENTIAE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/COMTROLLED DISSEM

GROUPAS

edwided from solom

donorade son

STATE/INR DIA: ARMY/AGSI

NAVY

" AIR

1C5

SECDEF NSA: NIC

USIA

OC ONE ROCHE ORR

CUSTOMS BORDER PATROL COAST GUARD AD/CI 2

•TREASURY

FBT

HW 53199 DocId:32349254 Page 3

---

## Page 4

M09 7-043(20)

NO FORETEN DISSEN/CONTROLIED DISSEM

AIN

30666

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS DB-315/01477-GAGB 2

ON 17 NOVEMBER 1964, AN UNIDENTIFIED MASFERRER MAN ARRIVED

AT THE HOME OF TOUSSAINT AND DEMANDED MONEY. HE THREATENED

TOUSSAINT WITH A PISTOL.

3.

ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS MASFERRER TELEPHONED FATHER:

DIECO MADRIGAL ALVAREZ, ASKING FOR AN APPOINTMENT TO SEE HIM.

EACH TIME FATHER MADRIGAL TOLD MASFERRER: THAT HE WANTED NOTHING

TO DO WITH HIM AND THEREFORE THERE WAS NO REASON TO MEET

4. FATHER MADRIGAL SAID THAT MASFERRER IS ATTEMPTING TO

CULTIVATE A FRIENDSHIP WITH ENRIQUE ABASCAL, NEW YORK REPRESENTATIVE

OF THE MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANA: (MDC, CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC

MOVEMENT), IN ORDER TO RENEW HIS INFLUENCE WITH FATHER MADRIGAL

THROUGH ABASCAL. MADRIGAL SAID THAT ON 18 NOVEMBER ASASCAL,

ACCOMPANIED BY ALUREANO BATISTA FALLA, MOC MILITARY LEADER, ARRIVED

AT FATHER MADRIGAL'S CHURCH: WHEN THEY ASKED TO SEE HIM, FATHER

MADRICAL SENT A NOTE SAYING HE WAS BUSY AND UNABLE TO MEET WITH

ANYONE*

5. MASFERRER HAS SAID THAT THE INVASION PLANS OF GENERAL

CANTAVE FAILED: BECAUSE ONLY HE (MASFERRER) KNEW HOW TO TRANSPORT

ARMS TO MIAMI AND OUT OF THE UNITED STATES WITHOUT HAVING THEM

CONFISCATED BY AMERICAN AUTHORITIES. MASFERRER ALSO DRAGGED THAT

IT IS FOR THIS REASON THAT THE HAITIAN EXILES WILL HAVE TO LET

HIM TAKE PART IN ANY OPERATION AGAINST HAITI.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI

REPS OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, JENS, AND USCE.

ALSO SENT SANTO DOMING AND PORT-AL-PRINGE

ONTIDENTIA

-(END OF MESSAGE)

NH 53199 DocId:32349254 Page 4

---

