# docid-32326022

## Page 1

JFK Assassinatión System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90041-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-12-207-23

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Caset:HT 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

Document Information

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CIA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/02/1960

2

JOSE RASCO BERMUDA

POLITICAL MATTER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: RPT

v91

HH 54027

DocId: 32326022

Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

RECEIVED FROM

MAY 1 U 1960

INFORMATI RERORI

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information alecting the National Defense of the United States withta the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18, U:S.C.-Secs. 793-and,794, the-transmission.or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

• POLITICAL MATTERS

COUNTRY Chile/Cuba

SUBJECT

Activities .of

Party in Chile

REPORT NO.

CS - 3/135,859

2 May 1960, 30

bristian Democratic

DATE DISTR

with Regard to

Cuba

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION® TRAGES ?

2

DECLASSIFICATION ANB/ERRyCES

• RD

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DATE OF 13-20 April 1960

INFO.

PLACE &

Chile, Santiago

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR thE bRACKETS

DATE ACQ. (21 April 1960)

KP SED OR NO CS/3933

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1S TEÑTATIVE.

SOURCE:

resident

in Chile (B); from a Chilean with numerous contacts amon

Chilean students (B) • Appraisal

of Content:

During their visit to Chile the members of the Cuban coordinating group

several meetings with Communists and Socialists,

invitation to confer with representatives of the Chilean Christian

Democratic Party (PDO)a One Christian Denccratic youth leader in Santiago

suspected that the Cuban Government's harassment

forced exile of DEs

aura

roselignacieptasf0.@uban.Christian.Demoenatic.leader,

for the Cubanst reluctance

to meet with

the Chilean Christian Democrats.

The Cuban visitors did, however:

session with the executive council

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED S

of the rederacion de Istudiantes de Chile (FECh), at which they talked of

nthe common

enemy" and discussed plans for the

in American Youth Congre

(LAYC) scheduled to be held in Habana in July 1960

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEU

DATE 8 - 3-94 BISP8MAC/GH

The PDC in Chile is now thoroughly split on the Cuban question.

party is for supporting the CASTRO revolution regardless of the

The other group?

led by Eduardo Frei Montalva, is for a

of patience and continued observatiget 41

189-12-207928

Tonic, a leader of the left wing of the PDC,

second

letter which the FECh sent to President Eisenhower.. Regarding the

proposed

visit of the university student leaders to the United States at

the

invitation of President Eisenhower, Bernardino MANHUEZA,, a Christian

Democrat,

has been named to replace Rolando MaRINO as the student

cuba

45

representative from the University of Concepcione

All members of the

group intend to visit cuba on their return trip.

The FECh is also planning

to petition the Cuban Embassy in Santiago to allow three more-memberss

including a Christian Democrat, a rightist, and a represenüalive un thê

mente de Accion Repular (FRAP),

to join the grown when it reaches Cuba.

Some Christian Democrats beleive

representative,

"no would be OctaviorADA, to remain in tuba 10r two

that it would be a rood idea for thei Chile

months

to keep

informed on arrangements for the LAXE and to make certain

that the

guarantees promised to the Christian Democrats for attending, the

congress

are honored.

MAY 25 1960/

re!

HUSIA

NH 54027

DocId: 32326022

Page 2

---

