# docid-32290633

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10409

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-243

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/31/1961

1

CM, ASSOC, BUSS, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

WW 45855 DocId: 32290633

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 10/31/61

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

Str

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-605)

CARLOS

MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00: NEW ORLEANS)

on 10/22/61, PCI L

called SA VINCENT

K. ANTLE from New Orleans and said he had met CARLOS MARCELLO

in Baton Rouge, La., at latter's request. PCI said he did

not know MARCELLO personally before this meeting. PCI said

MARCELLO was in Real Estate and wanted to meet PCI because

he had heard PCI was in a successful gas and oil enterprise

and had good business connections. PCI said he felt from

talking with MARCELLO that latter might be influenced to

give some pertinent information concerning his involvements.

PCI said if desired, he could invite MARCELLO to his Fort

Lauderdale, Fla., home and try to convince him it would be to

his best interest to meet with FBI representatives and tell

them the truth. PCI said he would not return to Fort

Lauderdale for at least 10 days.

on 10/27/61, PCI called SA ANTLE from New York and

said MARCELLO was coming to New York 10/28/61, and that he

would probably see him.

PCI said he expected

to be in Fort

Lauderdale about November 1, and that he would report all

pertinent data regarding MARCELLO that he had learned.

Miami did not and UACB. wilhnot initiate a meeting with

MARCELLO at Fort Lauderdale home of PCI since Miami does not

know what data MARCELLO has furnished to the New Orleans

Office and because it does not know the ramifications of

the present court proceedings

Bureau (AM)

REC- 13

New Orleans

(46-1731)

2 -

MI m(1-92-605773 - 1371043

1961

VKA:dln

(7).

S4 7 202.

COE Wick

Approved 62

Special

57 NOV 1 3 196

Sent

_ M

Per

Charge

HW

45855 DocId: 32290633

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

