# docid-32337902

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201,

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90139-10029

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-12-210-3706

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PH

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/09/1962

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32337902 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010÷104

UNITED STATES GI

'RNMENT

Memorantum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

SEC ET

DATE:

8/9/62

1-24

TIAN ANDIOR,

CIA HAS NO ROLEC

DECLASSIF

RELEASE CE CA INFORMATI

SAC, PHILADELPHIA. (94-547)

Classified

9803100.

Jectassit on:

CAPR

271828

SURECT:

Kp 11-7-9

REVEREND CHARIES J. MC FADDEN,

OSA, VILLANOVA,

PENNSYLVANIA,

RESEARCH (CORRESPONDENCE AND

TOURS)

BUDED 8/13/62

AT TARGEMEN CONTAINED

HORSIN

TED EXCEPS

TREND SHOWN OTHERWISE

Re Bureau airtel 8/1/62 captioned as above an‹

tade dated efe/62 the Sureau, attention Mechanical

AUG 10 1962

On 8/7/02, Reverend CHARIES J. MC FADDEN, OSA,

Professor of Philosophy, Villanova University, Villanova,

Pa., who requested his identity be kept confidential;

made

ALL INFORMATION SONTATNED

LNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

available to SA EDWARD A. SMITH 12 Kodachrome (35 mm.) slides

which he took from aboard the Moore-McCormack Line's SS ARGENTINE

while that ship was docked at Leningrad on Monday, 7/2/62.

HEREIN IS

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

The Philadelphia Office by separate communication to the Bureau

has requested that two copies of each slide be prepared by

the Mechanical Section in order that the Bureau may transmit

+62-108119-20

Father MC FADDEN stated that he took the photographs

on the late afternoon of 7/2/62 from the bridge of the

SS ARGENTINE, of the dock area in the Port of Leningrad: He

stated that he was subsequently informed by ship's officers

that no photographs of the dock area were to be taken.

Father

MC FADDEN stated that security in the dock area was extremely

tight for American tourists and it was necessary to present

passport at the gangway upon leaving the ship and also at ara

heck point approximately one-half mile from the ship at the

entrance to the pier.

He stated that all passengers aboard

the ARGENtINE were shuttled via in-tourist bus to the Astoria

Hotel in Leningrad.

DEGLASSIHIEN BY 5768 SLDKSR

REC- 37 0N-0-13-7JE12

Bureau (R.M.

I= Burtadezphia (94-547) 109-512-270-3706

Classified by

16 AUG IQ 1962

Declassify on:

5FK)

14

SECRET

CORRES

10811

tARFCORDED COPY FILED IN

NW 45752 Docid: 32337902

Page 2

---

## Page 3

- 6

PH 94-547

SEC

XI

Father MC FADDEN advised that from conversations with

crew members of the ARGENTINE, he ascertained that the Greek

ship HARIKHA from Piraeus, was in the process of unloading

sugar from Cuba and planned to take back a load of coal t

Cuba. He indicated that a Greek crewman stated that a Cuban

ship

located further up the dock planned to take a large

shipment of Soviet trucks to Cuba.

These trucks are clearly

visible in Father MC FADDEN's slides.

Father MC FADDEN stated

that when the sugar was unloaded by the Greeks it was placed

under heavy tarpaulin approximately eight feet high and extended

for one-quarter mile up the wharf.

He stated he observed the

sugar being loaded into boxcars for transmittal by rail.

Father MC FADDEN added that in conversation with

Captain SIMMONS of the ARGENTINE, he ascertained that several

members of a Cuban ship further up the dock had attempted to

make contact with members of the American crew but were stopped

from doing so by the Russian Soviet Security Forces at the dock.

Father MC FADDEN stated that he did not particularly

wish to be identified as furnishing these photographs but that

If it were necessary for another agency to further interrogate

him concerning the pictures, he would be glad to do so.

It should be noted that Father MC FADDEN is an established

source of

• the Philadelphia Office and materially assisted this

office in research material regarding Communism and the Communist

Party philosophy in connection with the trial of Dr. ALBERT EMANUEL

BLUMBERG in Philadelphia in 1956.

Father MC FADDEN was thanked for furnishing these

slides and assured that they would be returned to him promptly.

-ECRE

NW 45752

DocId: 32337902

Page 3

---

