# docid-32989486

## Page 1

File #:

105- SN-0

Serial Scope:

4900 thre 4901A

3=22=351er Pas =5 2332

NW 5422

---

## Page 2

Routing Slip

0-7 (Rev. 12-17-73)

TO: SAC:

Albany

Albuquerque

Alexandria

Anchorage

Allania

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

C'incinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroil.

El Paso

Honolulu

(Copies to

_ Houston

• Indianapolis

E Jackson

= Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

3 Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miami

Milwaukee

1 Minneapolis

5 Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

1 New York City

D Norfolk

Les Checked)

=

2 On man city

1 Pittsburgh

I Poriland

Sacramento

St. Louis

Snlt Lake Cits

San Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

Sun Juar.

Buenos dires

RE:

11/21/75

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE Date —

ON INZELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES, 050-4901

Retention

For appropriate

• For infornation

# optional

action

• Surep, bý

The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report, EJ conceal all

sources, D paraphrase contents.

Enclosed are corrected pages from repori of SA

Remarks:

Enclosed for your information is a copy of

an article by Mr. William Safire entitled "M..

Church's Cover-Up" that appeared in the

November 20, 1975, issue of "The New York Times.

101

- 0-4901-A

Enc. (1)

Bufile

Urfile

1476115

SEARCH-D

IDEXED..

SERIFLIRED.

FILED VI

1975

FBI • SAN JUAN

NIW

54948

DocId: 32959486 Fage

---

## Page 3

Mr. Church's Cover-Up

The committee is not asking embar-

By William Safire

rassing questions even

when answers

are readily available.

A couple

WASHINGON, Nov. 19- On Oct. 10,

weeks ago,

of

at an

open nearing, an

1963, the then-Attorney General of the

F.B.l. man inadvertently started

to

United States put his personal signa-

blurt out an episode about newsmen

ture on a document that launched and

who were weritapping in 1962

witty

legitimatized one of the most horren-

, the apparent knowledge of Attorney!

dous abuses of Federal police power in

General Kennedy. The too-willing wit

this century.

ness was promptly shooshed into si

In Senator Frank Church's subcom-

lence, and told that such information

mittee hearing room this week, the

would be developed only in executive

authorized wiretapping and

subse-

session. Nobody raised

an eyebrow.

quent unauthorized bugging and

at-

That pattern of containment by the

tempted blackmailing of Martin Luther

Church committee is vividly shown by

King Jr. is being gingerly examined,

the handling of the buggings at the

with the "investigation" conducted in

1964 Republican and Democratic con-

such a way as not to unduly em-

barrass officials

of the Kennedy or

ESSAY

Johnson Administrations.

With great care, the committee has

- focused on the F.B.I. Yesterday, when:

ventions which were ordered by Lyn-

the committee counsel first set forth.

don Johnson. Such invasions of politi-

the result of shuffling through press

cal headquarters were worse than the

clips, it seemed as if no Justice De-!

crime committed at Watergate, since

partment had existed in 1962; today,

they involved the

use of

the 'F.B.l.,

an F.B.I. witness pointed out that it

but the Church investigators seem to

was Robert Kennedy who authorized

be determined not to probe too deeply.

the wiretap of Dr. King, and that "the

If F.B.I. documents say that reports

President of the United States and the

were made to specific Johnson aides,

Attorney General specifically discussed

why are those men not given the

their concern of Communist influence

same opportunity to publicly tell their

with Dr. King."

story so avidly given the next Presi-

But the Church committee showed

dent's men? If Lindon Jonnson com-

no zest for getting further to the Ken-

mitted this impeachable high crime of

nedy root of this precedent to Water-

using the F.B.I. to spy on political,

gate eavesdropping. If Senator Church

opponents, 'who can

be brought for-i

were willing to let the chips fall where

ward to tell us all about it?

they may, he would call some knowl-

But that, would cause embarrass-;

edgcable

witnesses into the glare of

ment to Democrats.

and

Senator'

the-camera lights and ask them-some

Church wants to embarrass profes-

questions that have gone unasked for

sional employees

of investigatory

• thirteen years.

agencies only. A new

sense of Con-•

For example, he could call Nicholas

gressional decorum exists,

far from

Katzenbach,

Atiorney General Ken-

the sense of outrage expressed in the

"edy's deputy and successor, and ask

Senate Watergate committee's hear-

what he knows of the Kennedy de-

ing room. When it is revealed that the

cision to wiretap Dr. King.

Who at

management of NBC News gave press

Justice concurred in the recommenda-

tion? How does the F.B.I. know the !

President was consulted or informed? "

After Mir. Katzenbach assumed of-'

fice, and the wiretapping continued,

he was told by angry newsmen that

the F.B.I. was leaking scurrilous in-

formation about Dr. King. Why did he

wait for four montas, and for a thou-

sand telephonic interceptions, to dis-

continue thie officially approved tas?

Of course, this

sort of testimony

would erode Senator Church's political

base. That is why we do not see for-

mer Assistant F.B.I. director Cartha

is not the

(Deke)

Deloach,

Lyndon

Johnson's

personal contact with the F.B.I. in the

tive;

witness chair.

What did President

Johnson

know about the character-

assassination piot and when did he

know it?

What conversations look

place between Mr. Deloach and Presi-

dent Johnson on the tapping of Dr.

King, or about the lse of the F.B.l. in

any nther intrusions into the lives of

pelitical figures?

ing up.

NW

54948 DocId: 32989486

Page

3

THE NEW YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20th, 197:

PAGE C-41

---

## Page 4

NRAOS SU CODE

10:06 PM NITEL 3-25-75 JXC

TO DIRECTOR

ATTENTION: BUDGET AND

ACCOUNTING SECTION

FROM SAN JUAN.

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ALL SPEÇIAL AGENTS IN CHARGE

• DATED MARCH 24, 1975, CAPTIONED AS ABOVE.

THE FOLLOWING IS A BREAKDOWN OF SUPERVISOR AND AGENT

PERSONNEL IN THE SAN JUAN DIVISION ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY

•MATTERS:

ONE SUPERVISOR - FULL TIME; ONE SUPERVISOR - TWENTY PER

CENT OF THE TIME; FOURTEEN SPECIAL AGENTS - FULL TIME; THREE

SPECIAL AGENIS - FIFTY PER CENT OF THE TIME.

AT THIS TIME, THE SAN JUAN DIVISION HAS NO COUNTERINTELLI-

GENCE MATTERS IN A PENDING STATUS; THEREFORE, NO AGENT PERSONNEL

ARE ASSIGNED TO COUNTERINIELLIGENCE.

END.

DBS FBIHQ ACK FOR ONE GA

-FBING

115-8-4901

LARCHED.

prig

pert

FBI - SAN JUAN

NIW

54948

DooId: 32989486

Page

4

---

## Page 5

NR 046 WA CODE

16:22PM NITEL 3-24-75 DEB

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO

INTELLIGÉNCE ACTIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

FROM THE FBI. AMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREAKDOWN OF

FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

ACCORDINGLY, WITHIN FOUR EIGHT HOURS EACH SAC SHOULD SUTEL

TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, SETTING FORTH

SEPARATELY THE NUMBER OF SAÇS, ASACS, SUPERVISORS AND AGENTS ASSIGNED

TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS. PERCENTAGES

OF AN AGENI'S TIME, WHEN NOT ASSIGNED FULL- IME TO THESE ACTIVITIES,

SHOULD BE USED IF APPROPRIATE, PARTICULARLY IN THE SUPERVISORY

CATEGORIES• THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE BROKEN DOWN SEPARATELY

BETWEEN INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. YOUR RESPONSE SHOULD

BE LIMITED TO AGENT PERSONNEL ONLY

END

SX C FB.ISJ

• GA

FBI AS

1050-24900

LARCHED.

SERIALIZES

NW 54948 DocId: 32989486

Page 5

---

