# docid-32296859

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10135

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-1606-11, 12

Released under the John F.

kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 45748

ate: 11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SMITH, FRANK J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/16/1967

63

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

It 45748 DocId: 32296859

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

MM 162-446.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1.

Will report results of interview requested

by the Denver Office and offices designated copies of

this report.

Will continue to obtain a listing of the

long distance calls and identify the

contacts of subject.

3. Will maintain contact with informants

and sources concerning subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The spot physical surveillances of DINO

CELLINI's residence at North Miami, Florida, were con-

ducted by SA FRANK J. SMITH.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is MM 848-PC

MM T-2 1s Legat, Ottawa

MM 1-3 IS WILLIAM D. FOWLER, Vice President,

Constitution National Bank of

Hart-

ford, Connecticut (by request):

MM 1-4 IS DAVID GEORGE, Toll Accounts Depart-

ment, rochester Telephone

Company,

Rochester, New York.

(X)(21)

D*

COVER PAGE

HH 45748

DocId: 32296859

Page

---

## Page 3

i ? :

1

NIDAVIIAL

MM 162-446

The Bureau by letter dated June 23, 1967,

authorized Miami to obtain and review toll records

of telephone calls. Miami is at present conducting a

review of these toll calls for a six month period

effective May 1, 1967.

Miami letter dated July 25, 1967, directed to

the Atlanta, Boston, Buffalo, Denver, Los Angeles, New

Haven, New York and

Washington Field Offices requestec

that offices receiving copies identifying subscribers

to the calls listed and furnisheMiami available information

to enable this office to determine whether or not these

individuals should be interviewed relative to their

association with CELLINI.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is NIGEL MORRIS, Commissioner, Bahamas

Police Force (by request).

MM I-2 is LV 222-PC.

MM T-3 is Legat, London.

MM T-4 is Legat, Ottawa.

MM T-5 is MM 848-P6.

MM T-6 is MM 984-CTE.

_ C*.

COVER PAGE

LATt

IAT

1b: 1406-1418510137

HH 45748

DocId: 32296859

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-204. (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SEd

r...

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Tille:

•1 - U. S. Attorney, Miami, Florida

FRANK J. SMITH

8/16/67

162-446

Office: Miami, Florida

Bureau File #:

162-1606

DINO VINCENT CELLINI

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEr

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

DINO VINCENT CELLINI declared undesirable in England and

"gating" orders issued by British Home Office. CELLINI

•departed London 3/21/67, for France. Investigation,

Toronto, Canada, revealed CELLINI in Toronto 4/17-22/67.

Background activities set forth. CELLINI currently

residing with family at 12459 Keystone Road, North Miami,

Florida.

21)

-P-

REASOM

FEll I1, 7i3

DATE OF REVIZW..

stratis

/.0:73012005

BACKGROUND

DINO CELLINI has been observed with members of

his family residing at 12459 Keystone Road, North Miami,

Florida.

DATE

DETAILS

MM T-l advised that he had observed DINO CELLINI

in London, England in October, 1965, and stated that

CELLINI was employed on a full-time

basis at the London

School of Turf Accountancy, London, England. He was

residing at the London Hilton Hotel, London, England. (X)(U)

DECLASSIFIER BY SANDMAL ISR

09 5-25 - 94 JENN

SECRET

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

This document contains neither recommendations not conclusions of the FBl. it ls the property of the FEl and is loaned to

1621606-11

45748 DocId: 32296859 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

4.

Copy. to:

Report of:

• Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAT

1 - U. S. Attorney, Miami, Florida

FRANK J. SMITH

8/16/67

' 162-446

Ofice Miam1l Florida

Bureau File #:

162-1606

DINO VINCENT CELLINI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

¡EREIN IS KINCLASSIFIED

:XCEPT WHERE SHOWI

INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

OTHERWISE

Character:

Synopsis:

DINO VINCENT CELLINI declared undesirable in England and

"gating" orders issued by British Home Office. CELLINI

departed London 3/21/67, for France.

Investigation,

loronto, Canada, revealed Cellil in Toronto 4/17-22/67.

Background activities.set. forth. CELLINI currently

residing with

family

Florida.

at 12459 Keystone Road, North Miami;

(a)

~ P-

DETAILS

BACKCROUND

DINO CELLINI has been observed with members of

his family residing at 12459 Keystone Road, North Miami,

Florida.

MM T-1 advised that he had observed DINO CELLINI

in London,: England in October; 1965, and stated that

CELLINI was employed on a full-time basis at the London

School of Turf Accountancy, London, England.

He was

residing at the London Hilton Hotel, London, England. &

DECLASSIFIED BY SP& MAGISL

0: 5-25994

CONFIDENTIAL

SE

IET

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBi. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

Your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

14214413

HH 45748 DooId: 32296859 Page 5

---

