# docid-32329074

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90084-10055

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4110-188

Released under the John

F. Kennedw

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Lase#:NO 54027 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/20/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32329074

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS_ CE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer 1o

File No.

97 - 328

Miami,

Florida

October 20, 1967

SECRET

SONT

Re:

ON 5-25-94

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO

DE CUBA (MDC)

(CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT)

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

The Movimiento Democrata Cristiano de Cuba (MDC)

an anti-Castro organization maintaining headquarters at

1732 N. W. Yth Street, Miami, Florida.

The MDC has engaged

in military and political activities against Cuba in the

past.

1032326

Classie

Decla

MM T-1, a Cuban exile engaged in Cuban revolu-

tionary activities for the past five

years, on September 5,

1967, advised that information had been received that there

are

between seven

and eight Cuban exiles in

the Dominican

Republic (DR) trying to set up some sort of a training base

in that country.

These exiles

reportedly under the

leadership of Laureano

Batista

Falla, one of the officers

of the MDC in Miami.

(ng

MM T-2, who has

been active in Cuban revolutionary

matters in Miami for the past ten years, advised on

October 10, 1967,

that the previous day he conferred with

Angel Vega, military leader of the MDC.

that แบกt the

present time the MDC has no military plans

or activities, very little military equipment and the

organization is now involved in fund raising and political

propaganda.

Vega indicated that the MDC had no military

plans for the immediate future but was waiting for a change

in United States

government policy which would allow

MDC to again conduct military raids against Cuba.

2(4)

On October 13, 1967,

Laureand Batista

Falla,

545

Cadagua Street MiamI,

advised that the MDC continues

to

FLA

CONT

OFFICER - SURVECA

ORGANI TI

Group

Exclude, ron automatie

HE32N

ALi INODOLATTON CONTAINED

downgrading gna

DADR$ 110/33

dectessification

on

OTHERWISE

97-4110188 cons

ENCLOSURE

NW 54027 DooId: 32329074 Page 2

---

