# docid-32200366

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10275-10245

RECORD_SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-35-543

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. MM

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE:

11/09/1978

PAGES:

8

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 89-43-10378

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/26/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32200366 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

=1 D/36 (Re÷- 5-22-78)

C

TRANSMIT VIA:

I Teletype

_ Facsimile

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EF TO

• UNCLAS

NOVEMBER

Date

9, 1978

FM MIAMI (89-35) P

TO BUREAU (62-109060) PRIORITY

DALLAS (89-43) PRIORITY

BT

UNCLAS E FT O

ATTENTION:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT.

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963,

DATIAS, TEXAS, 00: DALLAS.

FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU AND DALLAS, BY LETTER

DATED OCTOBER 20, 1978, THE UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE, MIAMI,

FLORIDA FURNISHED TO THIS OFFICE A COPY OF A LETTER SENT TO

(DER)

THAT AGENCY BY U.S. DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION, MIAMI,

FLORIDA DATED OCTOBER 13, 1978. THE DEA LETTER ADVISED THAT

AN INFORMANT FOR DEA HAD INDICATED THAT HE WAS ACQUAINTED WITH

FRANK STURGIS OF. WATERGATE NOTORIETY, AND DÜRING A CONVERSATION

STURGIS TOLD THE INFORMANT: THAT HE HAD KILLED PRESIDENT TOHN F

KENNEDY. THIS REMARK WAS SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN THE

- Miami

PBS: Cl

Schoppele

Approved:

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

84-35-0-06400

DocId: 32200366 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-4111

FD-86 (Rev. 5-22-78)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

F BI

PRECEDENCE:

[ Immediate

I Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

I TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EF TO

UNCLAS

Date

PAGE TWO MM 89-35 UNCLAS E F TO

PRESENCE OF AN INDIVIDUAL BY THE NAME OF BILL JOHNSON. DEA

ADVISED THAT THIS INFORMANT COULD BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR

INTERVIEW.

ON NOVEMBER 3, 1978, ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT PETER F. GRUDEN,

INSPECTOR IN CHARGE, DEA, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHO HAD FURNISHED ABOVE

INFORMATION TO U.S. SECRET SERVICE, MIAMI, DETERMINED THAT HE

WAS NOT AVAILABLE. ON NOVEMBER 7, 1978, GRUDEN WAS CONTACTED AND

HE ADVISED THAT THE INFORMANT IN THIS MATTER WAS THOMAS JOSEPH

HOLT. GRUDEN STATED THAT HOLT WAS OF QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY,

IRRATIONAL, UNPREDICTABLE AND DESCRIBED HIM FURTHER AS A MURDERER

AND PERJURER. HE ADVISED THAT THE ONLY REASON HOLT WAS AN

INFORMANT FOR DEA AT THIS TIME WAS THAT HOLT HAD FURNISHED

INFORMATION OF AN INTERNAL NATURE. GRUDEN ADVISED THAT DAVID R.

WISER, INSPECTOR, DEA, MIAMI, COULD BE CONTACTED FOR FURTHER

DETAILS CONCERNING HOLT. ON NOVEMBER 8, 1978, WISER WAS

CONTACTED AND HE ADVISED THAT HOLT HAD COME TO DEA AND HAD MADE

ALLEGATIONS OF WRONGDOING AGAINST A DEA AGENT. WISER ADVISED THAT

TO DATE THE INTERNAL INVESTIGATION IN THIS DEA MATTER HAS NOT

UNCOVERED ANY EVIDENCE TO INDICATE ANY TRUTH TO THE ALLEGACION OF

Approved:

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

Per

FBI/ DOJ

DocId: 32200366 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2411

FD-36-(Rev: 5-22-78)

FBI

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

7 Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

I TOP SECRET

I SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

I UNCLAS EFT O

• UNCLAS

Date

PAGE THREE MM 89-35 UNCLAS E F TO

HOLT. HE ADVISED THAT THE EVIDENCE INDICATED TO DATE INDICATES

TO THE CONTRARY. WISER ADVISED THAT HOLT STATED THAT DURING

THE LATE SUMMER, HE, HOLT, WAS ON BISCAYNE BOULEVARD IN THE

DOWNTOWN MIAMI AREA WHEN HE CAME UPON FRANK STURGIS, WHO WAS

ACCOMPANIED BY ONE BILL JOHNSON. WISER ADVISED THAT HOLT STATED

THAT DURING THIS ENCOUNTER, STURGIS STATED THAT HE HAD KILLED

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY. WISER STATED THAT HE ASKED HOLT WHY

WOULD STURGIS IMPART THIS INTERESTING BIT OF NEWS TO HOLT, WHO

WAS Á KNOWN GOVERNMENT WITNESS AND PUBLICIZED DEA INFORMANT

FROM THE PAST AND HOLT REPLIED THAT IT WAS "ONE HIT MAN TO

ANOTHER"

INSPECTOR WISER ADVISED THAT HOLT HAD INDICATED AN INTENTION

TO GO TO THE NEWS. MEDIA REGARDING HIS ALLEGATIONS AGAINST THE

DEA. INSPECTOR WISER FURTHER STATED THAT HE THOUGHT IT LIKELY

THAT HOLT WOULD. ALSO MAKE MENTION OF THE STURGIS COMMENT AND

THAT HE HAD REPORTED THIS TO DEA AND THAT THEY HAD DONE NOTHING

ABOUT IT. INSPECTOR WISER ADVISED FOR THIS VERY REASON, HE

WROTE A MEMO CONCERNING WHAT HOLT HAD REPORTED AND FOR THIS

REASON, IT WAS FURNISHED TO THE SECRET SERVICE. INSPECTOR WISER

Approved:

Transmitted

Per

(Number)

(Time)

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32200366 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-78)

TRANSMIT VIA:

[ Teletype

• Facsimile

FBI

when..

PRECEDENCE:

Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

D TOP SECRET

J SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

I UNCLAS EFT O

D UNCLAS

Date

PAGE FOUR MM 89-35 UNCLAS E F TO

ADVISED THAT HOLT IS CURRENTLY RESIDING AT 1627 NORTH SWINTON

AVENUE, DELRAY BEACH, FLORIDA.

A REVIEW OF MIAMI FILES INDICATES THAT THOMAS JOSEPH HOLT,

DATE OF BIRTH MARCH 23, 1941, WHITE MALE, WAS A SOURCE OF THE

MIAMI OFFICE FOR A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME UNDER MIAMI FILE 137-6905,

BUREAU FILE 137-41174, FBI NUMBER 320 23 F. HOLT ALSO ARRESTED

BY FBI AND DEA AGENTS, JULY 26, 1976 AT MIAMI

INTERNATIONAL

AIRPORT FOR UFAP MURDER CHARGES, BUFILE 88-73308. ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION CONTAINED IN MIAMI FILE 45-1777 IN WHICH HOLT A

SUBJECT ALONG WITH JAMES

RONALD MONACO AND SUBJECT EUGENE OTIS

HICKS INVOLVING CRIME ON THE HIGH SEAS - POSSIBLE MURDER; GERALD

HERBERT LERNER - VICTIM, ALL SUSPECTED DRUG DEALERS. REPORTS IN

THIS MATTER HAVE BEEN FURNISHED TO THE BUREAU, BUT BUFILE NUMBER

NOT KNOWN TO MIAMI.

MIAMI MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH DEA MIAMI AND CONTEMPLATES

INTERVIEW OF HOLT, JOHNSON AND STURGIS.

RESULTS AND LHM'S TO FOLLOW.

BT

Approved:

Transmitted

Per

(Number)

(Time)

DocId: 32200366 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017 *

MMODD& 3131939

PP HQ DL

DE MM

P. 89 NOV 78

FM MIAMI (89-35) P

TO BUREAU (62-109060) PRIORITY

DALLAS (89-43) PRIORITY

BT

UNCLAS EFTO

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT.

ASSASSINAZION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963,

CALLAS, TEXAS, 00: DALLAS.

FOP THE INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU AND DALLAS, BY LETTER

DATED OCTOBER 23, 1978, THE UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE, MIAMI,

FLOFIDA FURNISHED TO THIS OFFICE A COPY OF A LETTER SENT TO

THAT AGENCY BY U.S. DRUG ENFORCEMENI ADMINISIRATION (DEA), MIAMI,

FLOFIDA DATED OCTOBER 13, 1978•

THE DEA LETTER ADVISED THAT

AN INFORMANI FOR DEA HAD INDICATED THAT HE WAS ACQUAINTED WITH

FRANK STURGIS OF WATERGATE NOTORIETY, AND DURING A CONVERSATION,

STUPGIS TOLD THE INFORMANT THAT HE HAD KILLED PRESIDENT JOHN F

KENNEDY. THIS REMARK WAS SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN MADE IN

THE

8. 2135-1043

DocId: 32200366

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John T. Kernedy Assassination Redords Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2TUT Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

PAGE TWO MM 89-35 UNCLAS E F•T O,

PRESENCE OF AN INDIVIDUAL BY, THE NAME OF BILL JOHNSON.

DEA

ADVISED THAT THIS INFORMANI, COULD BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR

INTERVIEW.

ON NOVEMBER 3, 1978, ATTEMPIS IO CONTACI PETER F. GRUDEN,

INSPECTOR IN CHARGE, DEA, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHÓ HAD FURNISHED ABOVE

INFORMATION TO U.S. SECRET SERVICE, MIAMI, DETERMINED THAT HE

WAS NOT AVAILABLE. ON NOVEMBER 7, 19,78, GRUDEN WAS CONTACTED AND

HE ADVISED THAT THE INFORMANI IN THIS MATTER WÁS THOMAS JOSEPH

HOLT. GRUDEN STATED THAT HOLT WAS OF, QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY,

IRRATIONAL, UNPREDICIABLE AND DESCRIBED HIM FURTHER AS A MURDERER

AND PEPJURER. HE ADVISED THAT THE ONLY REASON HOLT WAS AN

INFORMANT FOR DEA AT THIS: TIME WAS. THAT HOLT HAD FURNISHED

INFORMATION OF AN INTERNAL NATURE. GRUDEN ADVISED THAT DAVID R

WISER, INSPECTOR, DEA, MIAMI, COULD BE CONTACTED FOR FURTHER

DETAILS CONCERNING HOLT. ON NOVEMBER 8, 1978, WISER WAS

CONTACTED: AND HE ADVISED THAT HOLT HAD COME TO DEA AND HAD MADE

ALLEGATIONS OF WRONGDOING AGAINST A DEA AGENT.

WISER ADVISED THAT

"TO DATE THE INTERNAL INVESTIGATION IN THIS DEA MATTER HAS NOT

UNCOVERED ANY EVIDENCE TO'INDICATE ANY TRUTH TO THE ALLEGATION

0F

DocId: 32200366 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kemedy Assassinal

DATE: 11-14-2017

-Colleet

92 741 USt 2107 Hoter.

PAGE THREE MM 39-35 UNCLAS EFT O

MOLT: HE ADVISED: THAT THE EVIDENCE INDICATED TO DATE INDICATES

TO THE CONTRARY: WISER ADVISED THAT HOLI STATED THAI DURING

THE LATE SUMMER, HE, HOLI, WAS ON BISCAYNE BOULEVARD IN THE

DOWNTOWN MIAMI AREA WHEN HE CAME UPON FRANK STURGIS, WHO WAS

ACCOMPANIED BY ONE, BILL JOHNSON.

WISER ADVISED THAT HOLT SIATED

THAT DURING THIS ENCOUNTER, STURGIS SIATED THAI HE HAD KILLED

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY. WISER STATED THAT HE ASKED HOLT WHY

WOULD STURGIS IMPART THIS INTERESTING BIT OF NEWS TO HOLI, WHO

WAS: A KNOWN GOVERNMENT WITNESS AND PUBLICIZED DEA INFORMANT

FROM THE PASI AND HOLT REPLIED THAT IT WAS "ONE HIT MAN TO

ANOTHER".

INSPECTOR WISER ADVISED THAT HOLT HAD INDICATED AN INTENTION

TO GO TO

THE NEUS MEDIA REGARDING HIS ALLEGATIoNS AGAINST THE

DEA. INSPECTOR WISER FURTHER STATED THAT HE THOUGHT IT LIKELY

THAT HOLT WOULD ALSO MAKE MENTION OF THE STURGIS. COMMENT AND

•THAT HE HAD REPORTED THIS TO DEA AND THAI THEY HAD DONE NOTHING

ABOUT IT. INSPECIOR WISER ADVISED FOR THIS VERY PEASON, HE

WROTE A MEMO CONCERNING. WHAT HOLT HAD REPORTED AND FOR THIS

REASON; IT WAS FURNISHED TO THE SECRET SERVICE. INSPECIOR

WISER

DocId: 32200366 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FOUR MM: 89-35 UNCLAS E I.0

ADVISED THAI HOLT IS CURRENTLY RESIDING AI 1627 NORIH SWINION

AVENUE, DELRAY BEACH, FLORIDA..

A REVIEW OF MIAMI FILES INDICATES THAT THOMAS JOSEPH HOLT,

DATE OF BIRTH MARCH 23, 1941, WHITE MALE, WAS A SOURCE OF THE

MIAMI OFFICE: FOR A SHORI PERIOD; OF TIME UNDER MIAMI FILE 137-6905,

BUREAU FILE 137-411749 FBI NUMBER 320 23F. HOLT ALSO ARRESTED

BY FBI AND DEA AGENTS, JULY -26, 1976. AT MIAMI INTERNATIONAL

AIPPORT FOR UFAP MURDER CHARGES, BUFILE 88-73308. (ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION CONTAINED IN MIAMI, FILE 45-1777 IN WHICH HOLT A

SUBJECT ALONG WITH JAMES RONALD MONACO AND SUBJECT EUGENE OTIS

HICKS INVOLVING CRIMÉ ON THE HIGH SEAS - POSSIBLE MURDER; GERALD

HERBERT LEPNER - VICTIM, ALL SUSPECTED DRUG DEALERS. REPORIS IN

THIS MATTER HAVE BEEN FURNISHED TO THE BUREAU, BUT BUFILE NUMBER

NOT KWOWN TO MIAMI•

MIAMÌ MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH DEA MIAMI AND CONTEMPLATES

INTERVIEW OF HOLT, JOHNSON AND STURGIS.

RESULIS AND LHM'S TO FOLLOW.

B.I

DocId: 32200366 Page 9

---

