# docid-32314247

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10335-10174

RECORD SERIES:

BU

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-174-3-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BU

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/03/1964

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

-CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

•..1

v9.1

DocId: 32314247

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

0141 A.

OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

GS.A GEN. REG. NO. 11

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

JUNE

(Bufile 92-3972 ) DATE: 12/3/64

FROM

SAC, BUFFALO (92-174 Sub 3) (P)

SUBJECT JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title

FRED G. RANDACCIO, aKA

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Buffalo

Symbol Number

BU 264-04

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone

1. Name of person or organization on whom

surveillance placed:

FRED G. RANDACCIO

562 Richmond Avenue

Buffalo, New York

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

•= covered:

Apartment of DARLENE GRANN

51 Essex Street

Buffalo, New York

3.

Location of monitoring plant:

Buffalo Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

originally authorized 11/17/01s originally Installed 12/7/61.

Discontinued 6/29/62. Re-Installed 9/24/63 per Bureau

authorization 9/18/63.

5:

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

BU 258-c* Installed 4/24/61 and discontinued 8/13/64.

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a.

Is a trunk line utilized? Not applicable.

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Not applicable.

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Not appliable.

- Buffalo

Registered Mail

LeFA: jmb

(2)

Searchei_

_ Serialized

Indexed_

Filed

92-174-8423-116

O IHF

am

/ DocId: 32314247 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-174 Sub 3

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?. Not applicable.

e. If a party line, how many parties? Not applleable.

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One (1) automatie reset(81c-Tel) In Living roOm Of DARLENE

GRANN.

8. Is the Installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not applicable.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received.

State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attachod pages.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

It is not belleved the information furnished by this Installation

eould be obtained from other sources, informants or other

Investigations.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject 1s known to olive Informants who are not, however,

In a position to lurnish intormation suppiled by this

source.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

NO

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

None. Plant located 1n

a.

Rental costs for plant premises:

Buffalo Office.

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant. 3

- 2 -

i

DocId: 32311247 Page 3

---

