# docid-32297469

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10219-10245

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2914-307, 308

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/24/1964

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, MISUR, INSTAL, KEN IRON AND STEEL CO.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, A/T

9.1

DocId: 32297469

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-142 (Rev. 6-2-61)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile

92-2914

92-2918

JUNE

DATE:

2/24/64

SECRET

FROM

SUBJECT:

WPTTTSBURGH

(92-236

- SUt

92-220 - SUE

2)

2)

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTAIIATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

CLASSIFIED BY S668SL0/GCL

DECLASSIPY ON: 25X (J(6)

FET 11113/97

RE:

Title GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka;

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aKa

Character of Case AR

Field Office PITTSBURGH

Symbol Number TO. BE ASSIGNED

Type of Surveillance (Technical or Microphone)

1. Name and address of subject:

GABRIEL MANNARINO, 540 Charles Ave.,

New

Kensington, Pa.; SAMUEL MANNARINO, 201 Highland Ave.,

New Kensington, Pa.

2. Location of technical operation:

Ken Iron and, Steel Company,

1205 Third Ave:,

New Kensington,

at Paltsburgh drace consolidatea in Ce

monitored

3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None

ALL IMFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIN IF UNCLASSISTED EXCEP?

HELENS SHOWN OTHERWISE.

1-13-95

Massifiety

Declassin

4.

Cost and manpower involved: Leased

14% state and Federal taxes or

PG 180-S*, PG 622-C*

and PG 685-C*

presently

8:00 a.m.

through 12:00 p.m. daily,

by one special

$8,250 per annum;

one clerk, GS-7@

55, 725 per annie de clerk,

@ $0,055 per annum; ana one

clerk, GS-5 @ $5,845 per annum. There-

fore,

the approximate proportionate salary expense per annum for

proposed misur would

and GS-5, $975.

5. Adequacy of security:

•adequate as

"Details of proposed Installation.

t ant In Appen

FEE 4 1964

GS-6

Bureau

&- Pitesburgh

HLW: 11a

Registered Mail

3/0/04

DON

N

N

DocId: 32297469 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

APPENDIX

DETAILS OF PROPOSED INSTALLATION

Pursuant to Bureau authority, dated February 12,

1964, a survey was conducted to determine the

feasibility of

effecting misur coverage on subject's private office at

the Ken Iron and Steel Company, 1263 Third Ave., New

Kensington, Pa.

The ken Iron and Steel Company is located in the

twelve hundred block of Third Avenue and fronts on this

avenue, while the rear of the enclosed yard bounds on

Spruce Alley, running éast-west between Second and Thiro

Avenues and terminating at the east end of this yard.

Residences on both Second and Third Avenues are telephonically

serviced through a lead-sheathed aerial cable traversing the

north side of Spruce Alley from west to east, which terminates

on utility pole #19319 immediately behind the yard. From

this utility pole the cable is dropped into the company's

office's cellar where it terminates in a twenty-five

paired" box,

five pairs of which service the office's various

individual telephone numbers.

The location of this office

is approximately 16 wire-miles from the Pittsburgh Office

Consolidated Plant.€

CS PG 187-S advised that a cable-record check

disclosed several line pairs which could be made available

for

use.

One pair was selected (Pair 847) and on testing it,

measured 2,055 ohms with a db loss of 8.T over the approximate

16°

wire-miles.

Subjectes privaté office is located in the rear

northwest section of

the first floor and has approximately

10' by 11' dimensions.

The walls are pine-panel plank while

the 10' ceiling is constructed of

The private office

is serviced with a five-key telephone instrument which inter-

connects, in addition, with several offices and points in

the junk

yard. This keying unit obviously replaced a former

number of private-line instruments. On the north wall is

mounted a 44A block.

It is proposed that one mike be installed in the

northwest corner of subjects' private office on the west

SECRET

DocId: 32297469 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 011-14-2017

wall at a height of 34" and a point 22" from the northwest

corner. Ingress

to this area can be made by removing one

section of plank, two at the most.

The preamp leads will be

extended behind the plank, downward and will emerge on

the top interior west wall of the cellar and will thereafter

be secreted to the cable outlet.

It is anticipated that the installation personnel

will enter the Ken Iron and Steel Company surreptitiously.

Prior to entry, all logical principals will be placed

under surveillance and will be surveilled during the entire

operation.

Special Agent personnel who are acquainted with

the subjects and key associates will be placed in strategic

positions to provide utmost security throughout -the entire

operation

to insure advance warning of any approach by the afore-

mentioned persons. It is realized that trespass will occur

but every precaution will be taken to prevent any possibility

of compromise.

SECRe/

DocId: 32297469

Page 4

---

