# docid-32301320

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10155

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-314

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/15/1968

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SHF, ASSOC, TRA, FRANCE, ENGLAND

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

03/14/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32301320

114

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

SECRET

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI(100-339235)

DATE:

10/15/68

SAC, NEW YORK (100-42479) (P)

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

(00:NY)

OTHERWISE

EXCRET INABLE SHOWN

HENDIE IS LOLISSIFIED

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

ReBulet 10/4/68,

requested by Logat, Paris 9/23/6ging copy of translation

Enclosed for the Bureau is one and for Legats,

Paris and London, five copies each of an IHM, captioned

and

dated as above.

The LHM is classified "CONFIDENTIAL" as the infor

mation obtained by Legat, Paris and forwarded for translation

was so classified.

The confidential source is Legat, Paris, who obtained

the information from a French sourco.](s)

2cc of let with 5 cc's of

LHM to London

with note:rand Paris

London should

not refer this matter to.

by Lee par 1s 120/23/68

passage

" 10/23/68

iRwlsh

1/25/94

100-339235-314

15 OCT 37Y1963

(2- Legat, London)

(2- Legat,

Paris)

1-New York

EY: ikp

(7)

SECRET

SEC,

DocId: 32301320 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

AT.L. INFORMATION CONTATNET

HUDDEN IS USORASSIZTED

EXCEL? WIRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

File No.

In Reply, Please Refer to

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New

York

October

15, 1968

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Susan Heiligman Frank

10/25/84

Classified ly

Declassify on PADR/IFF)

During September, 1968, a confidential source abroad

advised among the people whom Susan Heiligman Frank, also known

as Susan Warren, intended to visit while in Paris during August,

1968, were the following:(5)

Heleno) Marchisio, a member of the Franco-Chinese Asso-

ciation of Friendship (Association des Amities Franco-Chinoises),

who resided at 32 rue Maurice Ripoche, Paris 14a FraMe

Jackelden, who resided at the Hotel de Suede, 15

Quai Saint-Michel Paris.

Perdita Huston Champey,

spouse of a French medical

student, who resided" at 3 rue d'Alleray, Paris 15. FiaNce

Paris 5.

Djeffouly Naceur, who resided at 52 rue Gay-byssac,

FACE

Al Chahir, an Iraqui, who

While in London, during August, 1968, she was to visit

resided at 40 Peckarmans Wood, Crescent

Wood Road, London 3.1: 296) f

At Paris, it is requested those individuals residing in

Paris, including the Franco-Chinese Association of Friendship, be

identified and any information of a

security nature regarding

be obtained. (

At London, it is requested Al Dhahir be identified and

any information of a

security nature régarding him be obtained. (s)

CONFIDEATIAL

•AUTOMATI

AND DET

WNGRADING

MAGALON

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions

SECRAT

02 Cho 30I.

It is the nsoperty

of the 20e and is leonad

to your

agoniye is and its contents are

100-33903097

20t to be astributed curside

ENCLOSURE

(s)

DocId: 32301320

Page 3

---

