# docid-32300844

## Page 1

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10277-10179

HQ

92-3267-602

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/11/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

JRO, ASSOC, TRA, LV, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT •

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300844

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John T. Kennedy AssassinatiOn Records Collection Act of 1p92 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

PATE 142)

111161292047

FBI

Date:

7/11/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113) (C)

JOHIT ROSELII, aka

on 7/2/64, LA 4268-C advised that while at the

Friars Club in Beverly Hills on that date HARRY RUBIN asked

ROSSELLIif it were true that the group from Texas is buying

the Desert Inn Hotel.

ROSSELLI said that he did not know

anything about it and that he was in contact with the hotel

the previous day for reservations.

JOE LEVINSON, a friend

of ROSSELLI, overheard the conversation and came over and

said that the rumor is that the Murchison group is buying

the Desert Inn.

ROSSELLI again replied that he did not know

anything about

it.

ROSSELLI appeared to be somewhat drunk when he

arrived at the club on 7/2/64 and continued to drink and get

more intoxicated. Informant overheard ROSSELLI indicate that

he was leaving for Las Vegas with JACK CALLIE on 7/3/64.

ROSSELLI asked CALLIE why he did not sell him that joint on

Beverly Boulevard, and CALLIE shrugged and laughed.

ROSSELLI then remarked that he wondered if he should

go home and belt her in the mouth and have her get supper or

take her out to dinner (apparently referring to his girl friend,

EX-I14

- Bureau (AM-RM)

1E6-6292-3262-692

- Las Vegas (92-467) (Info) (AM-RM)

1 - Los Angeles

1E JUL tA 1964

HFD :ps

(5)

015

C Appored:

Special Agent in Charge

We one -

_ M

Per

DocId:32300844 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records 'Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

JACK CALLIE is a gambler and owner of the Beverly

Club, a cardclub in Los Angeles, where, allegedly, illegal

gambling is permitted.

on 7/8/64, LV 129-C furnished information that

ROSSELLI was, in Las

Vegas on the nights of the 4th and 5th

of July; that ROSSELLI stayed in a suite at the Desert Inn

Hotel with MAURICE FRIEDMAN but was not registered at the

notel; and that ROSSELLI left Las Vegas on the morning o1

July 6, 1964, to return to Los. Angeles.

LA 4268-C advised that ROSSELII came to the Friars

Club at about 5:00 p.m. on 7/6/64 and went directly over to

talk to MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN.

ROSSELLI left the club at about

5:30 p.m.

on 7/7/64, information was received from the

Airport Detail,

Intelligence Division, Los Angeles Police

Department, that. on Monday, 7/6/64, ROSSELLI, MAURICE

ERLEDMAN, and one A. BORODKIN left

on Bonanza Flight 418 for Las Vegas and that all of

tickets were charged to FRIEDMAN's Diner's Club Credit Card.

They left a telephone number 878-1375, which the Los Angeles

Police Department said was a number of the Friars. Club.

The Los Angeles Police Department also advised that

on Wednesday,

Angeles from

ROSSELLI was not on the plane.

FRIEDMAN called Valet Parking

Service, and ROSSELLI's 1963 Ford T-Bird was delivered anc

FRIEDMAN left the

airport alone in this car. BORODKIN left

the airport in a taxi.

Information has been previously set forth in airtel

dated 7/3/64 that in June, 1964, a deposit of $1,000.00 was

made to the Emanuel Rothman Trustee Accountrat the Union Bank

in Los Angeles.

The Union Bank has advised that this deposit

consisted of a Cashier's Check purchased at a United California

Bank on 6/23/64 made payable to EMANUEL ROTHMAN, Trustee.

- 2 m

DocId:32300844 Page 3

---

