# docid-32585793

## Page 1

Transmit the following in

Via _

ATRIEL

FBI

Date: 9/4/69

(Type in plaintext o: code)

(Priority)

FROM

SUBJECI?:

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-4355)

(166-845) (P)

LUIGI GIOVANNI MANACCHIO, aka

FUGTTIVE ;

FRANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, aKa

Frank Vendi -

FUGITIVE;

ET Ab

ITAR - GAMBLING

100:

Boston)

The following is to advise the Bureau of current

and planned investigation to locate and apprehend subjects

MANACCHIO and VENDI:

All established ION informants at Boston Divis on

have been contacted regarding this matter.

Informant

information to date indicates possibility that subject

MANACCHIO is in NeW York City with girl friend, identity

not known, and possibly in contact

with CARLO, GAMBINO,

BIANCO and GAMSINO and attempting to Identify girl friend

Of MANACCHIO:

Boston Division continuing efforts also.

THOMAS DILUGLIC, Frovidence,

and close friend

Of MANACCHIO confidentially advised

Burcau Agents that MANACCHIO telephonicalls

in contact

- Bureau

Boston

REC 8

1l66 4355 20

SMM: mej

(5)

5 SEPS 8 1969

363

5 Approved:

SEP 151969

Sent

-M*

Per

Special Agent in Charge

HIH

45840 DocId: 32585793

Page 1

---

## Page 2

BS 166-845

TAS

FORCE

iN FULL

BY

took care of some personal matters over the next two

he planned to surrender

weated that MANACCHIO is quite

the FBI.

DILUGLIO

concerned about effect of.

publicity regarding case on aged mother and brother,

Dr. ANTHONY MANACCHIO, Obstetrician at Rhode Island

Hospital, Providence.

DILUGLIO contended he did not know

whereabouts of MANACCHIO and, if contacted again, will

strongly urge MANACCHIO to surrender.

DILUGLIO will be

contacted further regarding the above information. Also,

continued pressure through interviews and fisurs will be

conducted on close associates of MANACCHIO in order to

effect his arrest through surrendes or capture.

Informant for Internal Revenue Service, Providence,

advised that MANACCHIO possibly in Italy and

traveled there via . Alitalia.

Flight records at Al-

italia being checked re this possibility at air terminals

at New York City and Boston; also passport information re

MANACCHIO being checked through WEO.

IN PART

RELEASE

RAYMOND JOSEPH PATRIARCA,

• Providence, R. I.,

son of subject PATRIARCA, contacted 9/4/69 and

travel

to Atlanta,

Georgia, and discuss fugitive status

MANACCHIO and VENDI with father, currently incarcerated

Atlanta Federal

feels that

"peat enitentiary.

RAYMOND JOSEPH stated

generated by the FBI in fugitive

investigation is reflecting adversely on father and other

subjects

in this case, stating

that certain

in Providence now are saying that

"FBI must

gocà cess or MANACCHTO and VENDI would noù have ran have

RAYMOND JOSEPh also stated he hopes his father will okay

"passing word down to Providence" to have subjects surrender

to T'eT in order to quell such talk. This aspect of investi-

gation will be

followed closely

Investigation concerning subject VENDI is being

centered on cooperation being given Bureau Agents by close

members of VENDI's immediate family, located in Seekonk

and Fall River, Mass., and Barrington, R. I. Extensive

background information developed concerning VENDI and

leads set forth at Jacksonville, Miami, and Orlando, Florida,

where subject recently traveled

on vacation and possibly

has business interests.

Both of subject's ex-wives indicate

Barrington, R. I.,

who at first was uncooperative in this

is now fully cooperative

which is being checked out.

166-4355-26

NW 45840 DooId:32585793

Page 2

---

