# docid-32306693

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10333

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-2839-86

Released under the John

ussassination Recoros

Collection Act of 1992

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45754 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HOULIHAN, FREDERICK T.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/12/1960

PAGES:

98

SUBJECTS :

JFC, MEETING, INTV, RES, TRA, BUSS, REL AND ASSOC,

GAMBLING A/O NARCOTICS ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

v9.1

HH 45754 DocId: 32306693

Page 1

42

---

## Page 2

-.

PH 92-441

WASHINGION FIELD:

AI WASHINGTON, D.C.

Will follow and report decision of U. S. supreme

Court concerning Petition of Certiorari filed by subject

which is expected to be acted upon during the October 1960

term of court.

PHILADELPHIA:

AT HARRISBURG, PA.

Will check Commonwealth records concerning

Pittston, Pa., for all

AT PITTSTON, PA.

Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 521-C, PH 526-C, PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK, PCI|

Officer JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston Police Department.

AT SCRANTON, PA.

W111

maintain contact with the following;

PCI

PCI

and PCI

AT WYOMING, PA.

WIll maintain contact with Sergeant LOUIS SHUPNIK,

Pennsylvania State Police.

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Will maintain contact with Alcohol and Tobacco Tax

Division concerning arrests made by this Agency in connection

with the Pennsylvania Iiquor Control Board raid during

June 1960 on alcohol still in Exeter Township, Pa.

- B -

COVER PAGE

JEK Act 6 (4)

45734

DOC1d:32306693

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

Administrative Data

Detailed information concerning associates of

subject, ANGELO SCIANDRA, DAVE OSTICCO, 1s not being set

forth in the body of this report in view of the fact that

separate summary reports are to be prepared on these

Individuals.

T-1

Informants

LOUIS CONSAGRA, 515 Pennsylvania

Avenue, Mayilela, Pa.

(by request)

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

I-2

T-3

T-4

T-5

T-6

"JFK Act 6 (4)

T-T

T-8

T-9

former PCI

PCI

CELIA TREBITZ, North River Street,

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

(by request)

former PCI

ORLANDO MENCHI, former PCI

First Deputy Police Commissioner

Police Department New York City

T-10

T-11

(by request)

FRANK MILLER,

Pennsylvania State

Police, Wyoming, Pa.

(by request)

~ COVER PAGE

HH 15754 DocId: 32306693 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

T-12

, LEO TIERNEY, 109$ Carroll Street,

Pittston, Pa.

(by request)

T-13

I-I4

T-I5

T-16

T-17

PCI

T-18

PCI

former Criminal Informant

PCI

JAMES WALLACE, Manager, Bell

Telephone company, scranton, Pa.

(by request)

LEO LEVENSON, 2836 Diamond Avenue,

Allentown, Pa.

(by request)

T-19

T-20

PCI

WILLIAM MATHESON, Educational

Director, ILGWU, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

(by request)

PCI, New York City

JEK Act 6 (4)

I-21

T-22

I-23

T-24

T-25

(by request)

GEORGE CONNORS, Agent, Internal

(by request)

Officer JOSEPH DELANEY, Pittston,

Pa., Police Department

(by request)

S

FRANK O'GORMAN, U. S. Probatior

Officer, Scranton,

Pa.

(by request)

COVER

. PAGE

TASK FORCE

1372

PE

ON

HH 45754

DocId: 32306693 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-

PH 92-441

T-26

T-27

T-28

T-29

T-30

T-31

I-32

T- 33

T-34

District Director, Internal

Revenue Service, Scranton, Pa.

New York letter of 1/27/60,

in which source not set forth.

Not used.

PCI

PH 559-C

JFK Act 6 (4)

PCI

PH 525-C

former PCI

PCI

-*

COVER PAGE

HH 45754

DocId: 32306693

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-441

E - LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

A.B. & S. Contracting company

Fictitious Names in Business Docket Number Eight,

BUFALINO, 163 South Main Street, Pittston, Pa., was the

only person having an interest in the A.B. & S. Contracting

Company Number Two, at 161 South Main Street, Pittston, Pa.

This concern was organized to erect and construct buildings

to purchase realty and building materials and supplies and

to do all acts in furtherance thereof at 161 South Main

Street,

Pittston, Pa.

subcribed to the above on March 20, 1957, before Notary PublIc

BERTHA FRY.

On March 18, 1958, T-21 advised SA EDWARD F. FOLEY

that the A.B. & S. Contracting Company is a partnership in

which DOMINIC ALAIMO, subject BUFALINO, and informant are

partners. He said BUFALINO was hired by him to look alter

the company's plans in Pittston, Pa., area and to cut down on

his traveling expenses.

He said BUFALINO was associated with

him for about seven years and he now makes $125 a week for

his services which is paid to the A.B. & S. Contracting Company.

On March 21, 1958, T-10 advised that BUFALINO has

a commercial account in the Liberty National Bank, Pittston,

Pa., under the name A.B. & S. Contracting Company.

This

account was opened July 26, 1954, and RUSSELL BUFALINO is

authorized to draw checks on the account.

A power of attorney

authorizing ANGELO J. BUFALINO to write checks on the account

in the absence of RUSSELL BUFALINO is filed with the bank.

The balance in this account as of March 20, 1958, was $657.34.

On March 24, 1958, Confidential Informant I-22

advised that BUFALINO, doing business as the A.B. & S.

Contracting Company Number Two, borrowea $2,500 Irom the

First National Bank, Pittston, Pa., July 3, 1957. He said

- 63 -

NW 45754 DooId: 32306693 Paqe 6

---

