# docid-32308967

## Page 1

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10297-10094

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-2610

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

03/30/1969

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, TRA, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32308967

Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

MATE: •11-14-2017

WAD2

CGOI

URGENT 3-30-69 PJL

VIA TELETYPE *

MAR 301969 CA

ENCIPHERED

637 PM

BUREAU, BUFFALO, CHICAGO, BOSTON, NEWARK, NEW YORK, PHILADELPHINEr

AND SAN DIEGO.

(CODE)

it Hat

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

MI. Roser

Mr. Sulhvan

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

te):

NEWARK NEW YORK PHILADELPHIA AND SAN DIEGO VIA WASHINGTO

FROM

/ MIAMI

(92-853)

LA COSA NOSTRA

LCN - AR.

MM ONE TWO THREE ONE C I E REPORTED INSTANT THAT

ANTHONY ACCARDO

ARRIVED MIAMI THIS WEEK-END AND IS STAYING THUNDERBIRD MOTEL, MIAMI

BEACH. HE IS IN CONTACI WITH TONY RICCI, FRANK CERONE AND FRANK MARTIN,

LON MEMBER FROM NEW YORK INFORMANI ADVISED THAT "CARLO" (GAMBINO)

IS IN TOWN AS IS JOE BROWN, BROTHER OF THE LATE THOMAS LUCHESE.

INFORMANT STATED JOE COLUMBO, COMMISSION MEMBER, DUE TO ARRIVE MIAMI

SOON. INFORMANT STATED "MEET" NOI GOING ON AI PRESENT TIME,

HOWEVER BELIEVES ONE IS SCHEDULED MOMENTARILY.

MIAMI CONDUCTING FULL SURVEILLANCE ON ACCARDO AND GAMBINO.

RECEIVING OFFICES MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH LCN INFORMANTS IN ATTEMPT

TO COLLABORATE ABOVE AND IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BUREAU AND MIAMI ANY

DEVELOPMENTS •

BUFFALO AND BOSTON ADVISED SEPERATE COMMUNICATION.

END

LRC R RELAY

FBI WASH DC

HITYPED TO:

NK, NY, PH, SD

REC- 24

926054-2618

17 APR 8 1969

DocId: 32308967 Page 2

---

