# docid-32329132

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-90085-10013

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-12-632

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/11/1966

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT .

v9.1

DocId: 32329132

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaser under the John F. Kernedy ASSassination Records Collection Act. of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DAJ4net1-14-2017

FBI

Date: 1/11/66

(Type in plain text or code,)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGRNCE

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau dated 1/4/66.

RE: JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO aka

AR.

(D1 92036)

On 1/7/66, DL 275-CrF (137-1733) advised that CIVELLO

was observed at the

Airway Liquor Store on & daily basis on

1/4-7/66 during the morning nours

On 1/11/66, above informant

advised that CIVELLO was at the liquor store most of the day on

:1/8/66,-

He advised that during the evening hours Dallas bookmaker

ENOCH DICKSON

was observed at the liquor store for approximately

thirty minutes.

He advised that on 1/10/66, DICKSON was again

observed at the liquor store during the morning hours conversing

with CHARLES CIVELLO (92=194).

Informant advised that he did not

know the reason DICKSON was visiting the store, however, DICKSON

is known to make layoff bets to PHILIP BOSCO (92-331).

BOSCO

is a close friend of JOSEPH CIVELLO

Informant related that in the bookkeeping set up

of the Italians it is known in the Italian group as

the "union".

PHILIP BOSCO has twenty-five

per cent of the profit; NOVELLE

YOUNG STANFIELD (165-153.)

twenty-five per cent and he would

estimate that JAMES

AVELLO has most of the remaining fifty per cent

for

bank-rolling

baokmakins operation of STANFIELD and BOSCo.

9-12-610

Bureau

DL 92-36

= DE 162-H0s REC-35

?!.t

And fod put frand

DL. 92-194

1 0 DI

162-264

DL 92-331

1 - DL

185รท153

DL

92-339

1

-DI

16538804

DL 94-47

1

*DE 166=84

DL 137-1733

1

*; DL 94-55A Sub

HO JAN 14 / 1966

DE/ ata

n a wick,

Approved:

55 JAN Z7$966 Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32329132 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Di 94-55A Sub

Informant related that some of the bookmakers working

for BOSCO-STANFIELD bookmaking organization are JOE PICCOLA, FUBY

DAY, GARLAND POLLARD (165-150), CLARENCE HILL (162-209), SOFIE

GEBRON, and several smaller books.

Texas

RE: ALBERT MEADOWS aka

ETA

ITAR - GAMBLING;

CONSPIRACY

(DI 166-84)

On 1/7/66, DL 215 C-TE advised that MEADOWS is furnishing

the bank roll for a

bookmaking operation in the Dallas area, however,

the actual backer with the financial money is BENNY BICKERS.

In turn

informant related that BICKERS can lay-off bets that are too large with

someone in

Las Vegas, Nevada.

Informant related that he does not know

the identity but he

believes arrangements are made through CECIL

SIMMONS: NEGEd

RE: GARLAND EUGENE POLLARD aka

ITWI

(DL 165-150)

On 1/7/66, DL 275-C-TE related that BILLY RAY

GRIMES

and

his brother are presently setting up a gambling house near Forney,

Texas.

Informant stated that he does not know the actual backers of

the house but he believes

that ALBERT NADOWS would be in on a set-up

and eventually will control the gambling at this location.

Informant

stated he does not know if POLLARD has any connection with the gambling

house in that POLLARD is presently actually bookmaking in Dallas.

RE:

GIIF

DALLAS DIVISION

DI 94-47

WINTERS, BOBBY JOE CHAPMAN,

from Miami to an island in the Caribbean Sea area along with several

wealthy Dallas businessmen.

Informant advised that all of the above

individuals are known to him as "thieves" and no doubt they are able

take a bundle of money from the wealthy individuals making the trip.

tO

DocId: 32329132 Page 3

---

