# docid-32397512

## Page 1

Page: 12/18/98

Page:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM -

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+00 104-10433-10195

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

REPORT: KING, MARTIN LUTHER

DATE

11/05/67

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS : KING, MARTIN

CLASSIFICATION

AESTRICATONS

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

OPEN IN FULL

OPEN

12/18/98

POSTPONED iN fuLL

JFK-RH19: F09 1998.12.18.11:09:32:810129: ORIGINAL IS PREVIOUSLY

SANITIZED DOCUMENT

[R] -

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

53216

DocId: 32397512

Page

1

---

## Page 2

G-F.

5 lico ti

le Partin anther Kind dro, born Is Scary 2920 In Milanto, Georgia,

has been described as tie nost probinent leader of tho civil rights morcarni

in tro is.

lie Is the Fresident of the Southura Chriduian Leadership Conference;

(suil), and is, a recipioni of the lobel Peace price.

2. in subjects bany activics in the civil rights noverant, he has

souglit and relied upon the savice of various indiriduals, Including the

Enlionang:

B, CoG

D.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date & maxi??

307

HH 53216

DocId: 32397512

Page 2

---

## Page 3

A,

B $ G

A., Bs

L. TheLober 1964 ¿sue Oi Viciove, En Italian weekly magazino

or ed oy the Italian Communisi Party, (POl), carriod an article entitied

"hat de licgroes ist of the President" nich Lie lanie chrined Subject wrote

for its exclusive publication. The article concomed the civll righte

question de the is and diu not appear to bu directed specaricelia to a

connunist audience. Despite the date of dis publication the erticle appeared to

rajo been trition sodo months boforc.

5o la eriole appearing in the Washinaton Post on i loveber 2856 stated

tric: Subjece nas plening a visit to the soriot Undone de recortedly had beer

HH 53216

DocId: 32397512 Page 3_

---

## Page 4

wanted to tho lissa, but nor halah dachaaht, ajorectan for Subject,

recused to coument on the solico of tha invitation.

Based 017:

201-190065 (KIN3)!

DISG

The folloring documents, held in

mare not teriered:

and

boin appear to nava pazes missing.

D vich contain information cosential to Subject's flie,

•--

Tric

arove nonoraidun was hased exclusively on that infomation contained in

Subject's very inconplote 201 dilo.

¿saccondares locate of consolidate ounci information concerning

Srioject.

5 November 1967

HH 53216

DocId: 32397512 Page 4

---

