# docid-32305809

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10288-10439

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2430

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, BU

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/04/1968

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

LCN, ILLEGAL ACT, POLICY SLIP BETS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305809

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the bum 1. kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. & DEPARUMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTION

OCT4

1968

TELETYPE

FBI WASH DC

"85t.

Mr.

Tolson

Mr.

DeLoach

Mr. Moht

Mr.

Bishop

Mr. Caste

Mr. Callagai

Mr. Contad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale,

Mr. Ros

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Mias Gandy

ten.

FBI-BUFFALO

1107PM URGENT 10/4/68 PJF

TO DIRECTOR (92-6054)

FROM BUFFALO (92-337)

Anti-racketeering

LA COSA NOSTRA BUFFALO DIVISION AR

ON SEPTEMBER NINE SIXTYEIGHI BU FOUR-FIVE SEVEN @TE FURNISHED

INFORMATION THAI SAMASAVARINO A BIG POLICY MAN IN THE BUFFALO AREA

WAS CONDUCTING HIS OPERATION OUT OF A GAS STATION AT BAILEY AND EGGERT

ROAD AMHERSI N.Y. •SOURCE INDICATED THAT RUNNERS MET HIM AT THAT

LOCATION ON A. DAILY BASIS BUI THAT HE HADÔ NO KNOWLEDGE OF INTERSTATE

ACTIVITY AT THE TIME. THIS INFORMATION ESTABLISHED BY BUREAU AGENTS

HYSICAL SURVEILLANC

AILY PATTERN OF PARTICIPANTS WAS DETERMINED AND DUSCREET F-SURS O

THE OPERATION LOCATED THE "POLICY BANK " AT ONE THREE NINE THURSTON

AVENUE TONAWANDA NOY. ADDITIONAL INVESTIAGIION DETERMINED NO INTERSTATE

ACTIVITY INVOLVED. DETAILS OF OPERATION THEN DESSEMINATED TO AMHERST

Police Department'S

TONAWANDA AND BUFFALO PD'S. BASED ON THIS FBI INFORMATION LOCAL SEARCH

WARRRANIS WERE OBTAINED FOR

VEHICLES ANP INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED AS WELL

AS THE RESIDENCE AT ONE

•THREE NINE THURSION AVENUE • A JOINT OPERATION

Police Department's

INVOLVING AMHERST TONAWANDA CANED BUFFALOES TO USE TO SERVIE

SERING

WARRANTS WITH BUREAU

AGENTS ANDS OBSERVERS. A SEARCH OF

VEHICLE

END

PAGE

360C1 15

16 00T 8

1968/

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

DocId: 32305809 Page 2

---

