# docid-32389606

## Page 1

Date: 02/02/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10404-10307

RECORD

SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

hasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 59320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

TO : DIR. FEDERAL BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS

TITLE : MEMORANDUM; SUBJECT - ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY --

-- REPORTED ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE MESSAGE

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS: MI-5

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEL

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIEI

RESTRICTIONS : 17

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/04/98

COMMENTS : JFK-RH02 : F040: 1998.11.04.19:39:40:233115

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10404-10307

HH 53320

DocId: 32389606

Page 1

---

## Page 2

26 NOV 1963

SUBANT:

Director

Fidernl jureau of Investigatisa

Assassinat109 of President Kennedy- jarted

Azonymous Telezicone Message

1. The following cable fun the ClA Station la London was reported

orally to it. souel lapies at 0930 on 23 Hovender:

The B-Itisia security Firvice (KI-5) bas reported toat at

1305 airT on 22 jovember an azopyrous tiloricone call ras sade 1a

cambridge, inglead, to tie senior reporter of the cudoridga iess.

ie

caller said saly tsat the lindridge ins smorter should call tire

Anerican inbasy in lundon for some big ters and tea tung up.

3.

After the word of the President's duath ins received tia re-

poster Infored de Canbridge police of the anonynovo call asa tire

Dilice inforned MI-5.

escording to Mi-s calculatloas, ebout 25 alautes befor toe president

Ins tastridgs reguster had sover received a call of this

ind bafore and iiI-5 state tat no 15 inin to ties a3 3 sound end 10,31

person with to security recoil.

#I-5 ested that slailar sonmous ahone calli or a strangely

coincidental unture have bisa received by persons in tsU.k. Over tie

sest year, particularly 10 consection ilth toe case of do. lard.

5. Die iritish scourty sinice stated its dualie to assist 12

very tosalble may on any follow us investigations regutred vithin

the alted Kingum.

FOR TIE TEFUTY DIOCTOR (PLAIS):

tri

JIME3 ANGLETON

Distribution:

Orig: & 1 - adaressee

1 - C/CI

1 - C/CI/SIG

HH 53320

DocId: 3238D606CIPhiwison

1 - C/CI/ P3A

1 - 1B/B0

DDP/C/BC/JCaswell: ra (23 nov 53)

---

