# docid-32289086

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENT FICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10362

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 105-165503-2. 2X. 3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/12/1967

PAGES: 18

SUBJECT:

FS, ASSOC, PLAN BOMBING, CUBAN SHIP, DESCR, ACA, TRA

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/16/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 3 TTY, NOTE

DocId: 32289086

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaset uter the oohn 1. Kennety Assassination Records

collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTLONG

APR 2 O 1967

FBI WASH DC

TELETYPE

Consident 1a2

723 PM 4/20/67 URGENT LAL

TO

DIRECTOR AND MIAMI (105-12890)

FROM SAN ANTONIO (109-12)

Classified I aps Clc

Declassify on: OADR 6/1J/&5

19

Hate,.

Mr. Tolson i-

Nar

Delench.

NEr.

Mohr:

Bar.

Wick.

Mr.

Casper.-

TEr.

• Callahan

ALe INFORVATION CONTAINEDIT. ConTad

Mr. Felt

INCCISSIFIED

Mr.

Gale

/Rosen.

EXCE

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room-

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

UNSUBS: REPORTED PLANS IO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP IN MEXICAN PORI,

POSSIBLY VERA CRUZ• IS CUBA•

posite 10 201497

46-4

RETELS MIAMI TO DIRECTOR AND SA FOUR TWELVE AND FOUR THIRTEEN,

SIXTYSEVEN... RECAB LEGAT, MEXIÇO, DATED FOUR THIRTEEN SIXTYSEVEN.

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, NE FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, DRIVING

LOSS

ROUTING

lasa

WHITE NINETEEN FIFTYEIGHI CADILLAC, FLORIDA LICENSE IWW ONE NINE

EIGHT TWO NINE, AND ACCOMPANIED BY HIS STEPSON RONALD EDWARD

$ 3

THOMPSON AND DONALD. FRANCIS ROCHE, ALL OF MIAMI, ENTERED THE UNITED

STATES AT BROWNSVILLE FROM MEXICO AT ABOUT EIGHT FIFTEEN PM FOUR

SEVENTEEN SIXTYSEVEN. U. S• CUSTOMS SEARCH NEGATIVE. ROCHE

DETAINED BY BROWNSVILLE PD FOR HAVING FALSE IDENTIFICATION PAPERS.

THOMPSON AND STURGIS LEFT, SUPPOSEDLY FOR MIAMI. ROCHE ADVISED THAT

THEY ENTERED MEXICO AT REYNOSA ON FOUR TVELY REC SIT SO EMAN

MANTE, S

TAMPS•, AND STAYED AT MANIE HOTEL, MAKINGGONE SHORT SIDE TRIP

TAMPICO. ROCHE SAID THAT PURPOSE OF TRIP WAS TO GET DRUNK ARB 7A1957

HELL, MEXIÇAN CUSTOMS AT MATAMOROS ADVISED AND LEGAL MEXICO,

CLASSIFIEDTAND

ADVISED TELEPHONICALLY.

8u.)

EXTENDED BY SOS TELeM|CA

END

REASON FO

FCIM, 31,

DATE OF REVIER

NxS8 9 MAY 2= 196

FBI WASH DO. 363

DECLASSIFICATION

4/9066

Conf dontial

499-

UNRECORDED

COPY

FILED IN

DocId: 32289086 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE:

11-14-2017

• TELETYPE UNIT

APR, 1 $ 1967

ENCODED MESSAGE

NR

45:36

PM URGENT 47131.67*SHR

TO DIRECTOR AND SAN ANTONIO

2 -

FROM MIAMI 105- 12890 1 P

Mr. Tolson

Mr.

Deloach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Wick

Mr.

Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr, Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr.

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

M. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss

Holmes

Miss Gandy

UNSUBS; REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP

CUBAN SHIP IN MEXICAN PORI, POSSIB-

LY VERA CRUZ• IS • CUBA.

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU AND SAN ANTONIO APRIL TWELFTH

ON APRIL THIRTEENTH

_CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE EARL HOUK IDENIIFIED

PHOTO ÖF FRANK FIORINI, FBI NO: NINE FOUR EIGHT THREE SIX; TWO.C, AS

INDIVIDUAL WHO TOLD HIM OF CAPTIONED PLAN. SOURCE STATES FIORINI'S

NINETEEN: FIFTY EIGHT BLACK CADILLAC SEDAN IS "AN QUTFIT CAR",. MEANING

A HOODLUM CAR WITH POSSIBLE HIDDEN COMPARTMENTS®

ON INSTANT DATE, FIORINI'S WIFE WAS CONTACTED AT MIAMI UNDER

PRETEXT. SHE STATED HER HUSBAND IS NOT IN MIAMI AND SHE DID NOT KNOW

WHEN HE WOULD RETURN. SHE CLAIMED HE IS IN NEW YORK

MIAMI IS SENDING COPIES OF FIORINI'S PHOTO DIRECT TO LEGAT,

MEXICO AND TO BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS RESIDENT AGENCY 65503

SAN ANTONIO ADVISED SEPARATELY

REC 28/05

2X

EX-113

10 APR 1 9 119641

Montan

- 99 Ti

RAK •R RELAY

FBI WASH DC

59APR 26196

1013 2 23 60.03

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED ME 1N2

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIMED

FTB

DATE 103129 BY SPE TERENCE

S8 Machide 4-6-94 6772

DocId: 32289086 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

DATE: 11-1472017

?,

Hotel.

PAGE TWO MM

105 - NEW

I-24

FRANK FIORINI, BORN DECEMBER

NINTH,

"TWENTY FOUR, NORFOLK,

VIRGINA ALSO KNOWN AS FRANK ANTHON

STURGIS, HAS BEEN

INVOLVED IN VARIOUS ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES AT MIAMI SINCE

FIFTYNINE: HE IS DESCRIBED AS ABOUT FIVE FEET TEN, ONE

NINETY FIVE POUNDS, WITH THICK BLACK HAIR.

Mexico

ADMINISTRATIVE;

PotentiAl Criminal InFoRmant

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS PET EARL HAUK•

BUREAU REQUESTED TO FURNISH ABOVE INFORMATION TO LEGAT,

MEXICO FOR DISSEMINATION TO MEXICAN AUTHORITIES. (P)U)

SAN ANTONIO, AT MATAMORAS, MEXICO, CHECK MEXICAN CUSTOMS

FAR TURORMATION RE ENTRANCE OF DESCRIBE GROUP INTO MEXICO GENE

MIAMI WILL CONDUCT INQUIRY TO DETERMINE IF FIORINI IS PRE-

SENTLY ABSENT FROM MIAMI

AND EXHIBIT PHOTO TO SOURCE. IF FIORINI

IDENTIFIED BY SOURCE MIAMI WILL SEND PHOTOS DIRECT TO LEGAT,

Unless Aduised to the contendy by BuREAu

UACB.

sueop

MA. SULLY

SAN ANTONIO ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END.

Con? Mential 2

105-165503-2

DocId: 32289086 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John I

DATE: 11-14-2017

it?

Kennedy

Assassination

Recors

Collection aot or 1992 (14 05C 2107 Hote).

PAGE TVO MM

109-NEW

FRANK FIORINI, BORN DECEMBER NINTH, IWENTY FOUR, NORFOLK,

VIRGINA, ALSO KNOWN AS FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, HAS BEEN •

INVOLVED IN VARIOUS ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES AT MIAMI SINCE

FIFTYNINE. HE IS DESCRIBED AS ARQUT FIVE FEEI-TEN, ONE

NINETY FIVE POUNDS, WITH THICK BLACK HAÏR.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS PCI EARL HAUK.

BUREAU REQUESTED TO FURNISH ABOVE INFORMATION TO LEGAT,

MEXICO FOR TLSSEMISATION TO MENONE DUIRENE. PAI

SAN ANTONIO, AT MATAVORAS, MEXICO, CHECK MEXICAN CUSTOMS

INFORMATION RE ENTRANCE OF DESCRIBED GROUP LATO MEXICO. (OU)

MIAMI WILL CONDUCT INQUIRY TO DETERMINE IF FIORINI IS PRE-

SENTLY ABSENT FROM MIAMI AND EXHIBIT PHOTO TO SOURCE, 'IF FIORINI

IDENIIFIED BY SOURCE MIANI WILL SEND PHOTOS DIRECT TO LEGAT,

SUCOP •

END

105-165503-2

DocId: 32289086 Page 5

---

