# docid-32333868

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90108-10010

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3035-9

Document Information

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Caser:nd 53025 Date:

25-23-2017

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BROWN

TO:

DL

TITLE:

DATE: 01/23/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32333868

Page 1

---

## Page 2

33 :

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

K50M

ISSIFIED

SHOWN

NISE

TO

FROM

SAC,

DALLAS

* 134-IA-651A)

SA W. HARLAN

BROWN

DATE:

1/23/62

4) c1.1551 8-81

8 EXT. BY-

SUBJECT:

- DL-6-S

REASON-FCIM IIs.4.2

DATE DE REVIEW 1 - 23-80

Appeal # 9-0172 per previsease

in person, furnished SA W.. HARLAN BROWN

as 134-1A-651.

a than on was it such rogurt is bees serialse

That

report revealed that on Sunday, 1/7/61, the CP State

Committee met at DAN YARBOROUGH's place in South Dallas. YARBOROUGH,

who runs a junk yard, is friendly to the Dallas CP people. The plan

•to have the CP State Committee meeting at AUGUSTIN ESTRADA'S vacant

house at Farmers Branch fell through; the house had no heat and the

gas had been turned off. fOOlu)

According to

San Antonio were JOHN

informant, those present at the meeting from

STANFORD and ThEo CASTILLO.

From Houston were

MONA SCHACHT and a fellow whose first name is FRANK.

1

Representing

134-1A- 651A

700-10172

(D.

Yarborough c(u)

1

100-671-5 (Organization)

- 100-7995

(A. Estrada)

X100-8749 (J. Stanfords&U)

100-10101 (M. Schacht)

100-8001 (J.

Landin.

100 c

(Security Measures)

• 100-

(Int. Relations)

∞ 62-3035

..(ACLU)

• 100--

(Membership)

- 100-10581 (CCCL)

ON 3/4/98

1

100-

'(Dom. Adm.

Issues)

• 100-671-21

1

∞X100-7894

(P&P.)

- Houston (RM) (I

sonach 4)

"SM- C)

Organization, IS-C)

2 - Sao Antonio (RH) i Down Maritam StARter SuS

#L00-7232)

Alu,

CP, USA, Organization,

'IS-C)

WHB: HM

(19) V

1 62-3035

SERIALIZEO

APPROPRIATE AGENCIE

Classi

AND TIES CETION

bỹ 6685

JAN2 3 1962

ADVISED B7

SOUTING,

Exempt fro

SDIP

Date of D

Category

2

Strict

ion indefinite

1/30

DANT

confidential

Declassily lan

$211326

Get 90

NW 53025 DooId: 32333868

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DIXI

134-1A- 651A

50014)

Dallas were

AUGUSTIN ESTRADA and JOE LANDIN. MONA SCHACHT and

FRANK

drove

from Houston in FRANK's 1954 white Cadillac.

is an' oil worker.

FRANK

THEO CASTILLO and JOHN STANFORD on Sunday morning

picked up ESTRADA at his house then drove to JOE LANDIN's house.

THEO and JOHN waited a block away from JOE LANDIN's house, while

AUGUSTIN went after JOE LANDIN.

ESTRADA and JOE LANDIN in LANDIN's

car led the way to the Dallas Hotel.

CASTILLO and STANFORD followed

in their car.

When they arrived at the hotel, JOHN STANFORD went after

MONA SCHACHT.

Then AUGUSTIN and JOE followed THEO, JOHN STANFORD and

MONA SCHACHT to the Greyhound Bus Station, where FRANK was waiting.

FRANK got in his

car which was parked nearby and was followed by

AUGUSTIN and JOE LANDIN in JOE's car, and JOHN and THEO and MONA in

their car.

FRANK parked his car at a parking place on Lamar Street,

then was picked up by Theo.

Both cars stopped a couple of streets

from the parking place and all of them climbed into JOE's car, leaving

THEO's car

parked on the street. They went to the meeting place from

there.

00(4)

The agenda the group drew up was as follows:

FLU)

PEACE

CIVIL LIBERTIES

CIVIL RIGHTS

* (4)(4)

YOUTH WORK

LABOR

ORGANIZATION

MISCELLANEOUS

JOHN STANFORD, according to informant,

read an article from

either the

September or December issue of POLITICAL AFFAIRS. The

article was about the KENNEDY ADMINISTRATION. At a recent news

conference, JOHN STANFORD said,

a Texas editor had told the President

that what was needed in the office of the President was

not a weak

sister: but a man on

horseback who would tell Russia that the USA

could annibilate her. KENNEDY pointed out that there was a great

difference between the editor and himself; that he (the President)

was responsible for millions of lives.

KENNEDY, STANFORD continued,

has changed tee erra richtists, but at the fine left the

door open for them with his cold war

JOHN STANFORD, it was determined by informant, read a form

letter from the ACLU headquarters to its chapters in different cities.

The letter indicated that the ACLU, as it had told the Supreme Court,

was against the outlawing of the CP.

The letter gave some reasons

for the ACLu's stand and added that while the organization was not

adequately prepared to take cases of individuals who would not register

as communists, their cases would be taken case by case.

The letter

suggested the Supreme Court's decision in outlawing the CP would cause

several years of court litigation (to make the law clearer and

effectivel. It seemed that if nonregistering CP members were to be

arrested the law would have to be more explicit.

Another organization

had also made the statement that it would take such cases. " JOHN

COXE

AL

NW 53025 DooId: 32333868 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL,

DI. 1134-14-651A18> (4).

STANFORD

Eave

then the name

and address that the CP members could

contact if arrested for not

registering as CP members.

That

organization is the Committee For Constitutional Rights, &4 Last

Street,

Roon 325, Ney York City, New York.

These organizations,

he said, were not pro-communist

A communist could not belong to them.

The 'fact that these organizations had made such statements

STANFORD

added, was

encouraging.

He

regarded it as & good sign.

JOHN. STANFORD

said

that it was a sure thing that a nation was

going to war when it outlawed the

CP.

He further stated that HITLER

had proved that. Communists

knew when the imperialists are set on war,

and they exposed the imperialists'

war trends the government knew

this and the result was

s the outlawing of the CP. A lU)

THEO CASTILLO denounced the bomb shelters as a hoax.

He said

they were constructed under the assumption that the blast would take

place a certain distance iron it.

If the bomb exploded in the

atmosphere,

chances

were its (shelter's) occupants would suffocate.

CASTILLO called the construction of shelters a money making

scheme.

MONA SCHACHT added that in addition to all of that, KENNEDY's consider-

ation of a bomb shelter program served to condition the American people

into believing war was inevitable.

JOHN STANFORD suggested the group read a book put out by the

American

, Friends Comnittee.

The book,

"We Can't Trust The Russians,

proved

that we could trust

FRANK CASTILLO pointed out that some

folks he knew actually believed our A bombs were keeping the Russians

from attacking us.

He had told them

that Russia would never attack

the USA first. JOHN STANFORD, stressing the importance of dis-

armament, saw

the danger of a

nuclear war being ignited by accident.

JOE LANDIN added that the falling of a giant meteor could start a war.

STANFORD said that the United States had used the bomb on people while

the Soviet Union

had not.

There was a contradiction, JOE LANDIN said,

in the U.S. policy on East Berlin.

While President KENNEDY was willing

to risk an all out war over free access"in East Berlin, he was for-

getting the plight of millions of Negroes who don't have "free access" to

public facilities in the South. f(du)

At this

time, STANFORD stopped the discussion to tell the group

he favored following the national office's pattern of abolishing all CP.

officers, as well as the state Committee.

he stopped the

The group agreed.

JOHN

STANFORD

added that in the future they (former CP State

• Committee

members)

would meet as interested

obseryers of the critical political

developments of the present time.

according to informant,

reported she was working

with two committees,

MOYA SCHACH HONES FOR PRACE" and the "COMMITTEE FOR PEACEFUL

ALTERNATIVES." She reported on

her work in the latter organization. A

woman in the organization had started red-baiting and MONA thought

was referring to her.

It turned out that the woman was referring to

someone else. She had "MARTIN" in mind, she said.

MARTIN had been

NW 53025 DooId: 32333868 Page 4

---

## Page 5

134-1A-651A

•Contidentiat

HENRY GONZALEZ" campaign manager.

Before she had found this out,

MONA had explained to the membership that anybody, any organization,

who spoke out for peace would be red-baited it was an old trick,

and they had to decide whether to continue their good work or break

up.

They had decided to continue.

She stated the organization was

doing very well and they had publicized it in the

radio and had bought a large ad in the "OBSERTER." local press/, by

The publicity,

she said was costly and wondered if it was worth it.

JOHN STANFORD

said it would be orth it if ther

cities would form similar peace

committees.

FRANK CASTILLO told the group of an ad in a Houston

newspaper urging the establishment of a Peace College. The ad was

paid for by JOE WEINGARTEN, a businessman.

CASTILLO said that if it

took a

Peace College to have peace,

he was for it. sele(u)

Informant further determined that JOHN STANFORD read a letter

he had received from HARVEY O'CONNOR, President of the Emergency

Civil Liberties and former editor of the Oil Worker. O'CONNOR will

be in Texas from mid-January to March.

He will stay at the Maverick

Ranch in Boerne, Texas.

STANFORD reported he had contacted O'CONNOR

and had asked him what he charged as a speaker.

O'CONNOR seemed

insulted, said

he didn't ask for pay,

but felt proud to talk to people

on the BRADEN-WILKINSON cases.

MONA SCHACht added that her organi,

zation was trying to have the ACLU sponsor him as a speaker. & OS(U)

It was decided the next meeting of the CP State Committee

will be in Houston on 4/15/62.

The Dallas representatives will get

a room at a hotel there and they

will meet one of the other CF

members on Sunday morning at 8 A.M. at the Greyhound Bus station.

They will make arrangements to go to the meeting place d (i ul

Informant had no additional information.

comr raem

53025

DooId: 32333868

Page 5

---

