# docid-32331387

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90097-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 62-9-29-292

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/03/1961

2

CHARLES TOURINE

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4 /

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32331387

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

6(1300|+2-13164)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date: Apri

3, 1961

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Ela

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-77)

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00: Miami )

Re Bureau letter dated 2/10/58.

MICHAEL

¿COPPOLA

MM 509-C advised on 2/24/61 that the Midtown

Social Club seat of COPPOLA's gambling operations has

been renamed since it was raided and noy operates as

Amvets

Post number 35. COPPOLA, JOHNNY ANGELSOLA, JOE MORRISON,

and JOEADI CARLO are still in daily attendance.

MAX COURTNEY

MARTIN DARIS, Investigaton Attorney General's

Office, State

of Florida, advised that in a/gambling

3/29/61 at the Eden Roc Hotel, Miami Beach,

JULES LEVITT was arrested and FRANK "RED' REED and MAX

COURTNEY escaped during the raid but rugttive warrants

are

outstanding for these men. DARDIS said evidence seized

indicates a large scale bookmaking operation was being

conducted in the Cabana area of the Eden

JOSEPH MASSEI

MM 708-C advised on 3/17/61 that,

has an interest in the Tahiti Bar on 231d Street, Miami

Beach. He stated that JOSEPH "PEANUTS"•

brother CARMINE TRONOLE are connected With MASSET in the

Tahiti and the TRONOLONES operate a handbook in this area.

REC 7

- Bureau (AM)

⅖JK: Mam1

(5)

APR

1961

Approved:

5 I

APR 12

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

M

DocId: 32331387 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11714-2017

MM 92-77

JOSEPH NESLINE

MM 665-C advised on 3/17/61 that JOSEPH

has left Miami and returned to Washington, Dind

D. C., adyised by separate communication.

Washington

CHARLES

TOURINE

MM 665-C advised on 3/17/61- that he heard CHARLES

TOURINE

has left Miami for yes vegas,

Nevada:

He said that

TOURINE and his son CHARLES DELMONICO operate as shylocks from

time to time. Las Vegas advised by

separate communication.

DOMINICK CORRADO

It has been determined that DOMINICK CORRADO,

son of the late PETE CORRADO, ex-Detroit Top Hoodlum has purchase,

a winter home

at 2070 Northeast 121st Rd Miamiftand is living

next door to "BLACK BILL TOCCO"

", Detroit Top Hoodlum. Detroit

has been

advised by separate communication.

-2-

DocId: 32331387

Page 3

---

