# docid-32286421

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coliéction Act of 1992 (44 USc 2101 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10197

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2095

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/06/1967

2

SGI, ASSOC, BOMBING, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32286421

Page 1

103

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection AOt or

DATE?

71-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

1992 714 050

* pi

FBI

Date:

9/6/67

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, MIAN, (92-370) (BIC)

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka.

(00 - Chicago)

MM 1231-C-TE advised SA RALPH R. HILL on 8/23/67,

that the recent wave of bombings in Miami and Miami Beach

were a result of "orders from MOONEY of Chicago." The most

recent of these bombings involved Miami TJT JOHN CLARENCE COOK.

On 8/22/67, a bomb exploded in the front of COOK's Miami

residence which destroyed his 1967 Eldorado, his 18 foot

runabout boat and the front of his residence.

another bomb was successfully planted in the

On 8/23/67,

back of COOK's

residence on his 26 foot cruiser, which bomb totally

destroyed this craft. U

MM 1231-C-TE advised that "MOONEY" ordered these

last two bombings against COOK, and that FRANK "LEFTY"'

ROSENTHAL received the contract.

Informant advised that the

cause of dissatisfaction against COOK involved COOK's

holding out on some $300,000 in rare coins which COOK had

taken in a series of burglaries over the past several months

(з)

- Bureau

2

- Chicago

5 - Miami

(1 - 92-170)

(1

137-4138)

1

92-726)

(

87-16634)

(1

- 162-222) - (BOOKMAKING)

SY To 93-3/11-2095

RRH : jkj

(10)

57-108

15 SEP * 1967

C.

C. Bishop

368

approved

DOSEP a Spệcial Agent in

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE4 • 25 BU E/SPEREKSC

Sent

Charge

DocId: 32286421 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Rover

DE: 11-112-2017

22-64

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

MM 92-170

Regarding the other bombings, "MOONEY" has ordered

that all bookmakers in the Miami area be brought under the

jurisdiction and control of Chicago and emphasized this

authority with the bombing of recalcitrants. Among these

were "CHAPPY" RAND, IRVING "MICKEY" ZION and ALPHIE MART, all

Miami Beach and Miami bookmakers and all victims of bombing

attacks.U

Informant said that these orders specifically

excludes the Italian bookmakers and gamblers.

Informant was

asked if these orders emanated from MOONEY personally and

informant was unable to determine this at this time.

He

states he has no knowledge of MOONEY's presence in Miami, either

or in the recent past.

Informant was asked if this information

was contrary to the fact that MOONEY had been replaced as boss

of Chicago and replied that it was not, but merely indicates

that the gambling action which is successfully operated in Miami

as a result of these bombings will go to MOONEY and/or the

Chicago family.U

Informant advised on 9/4/67, that, with regard to

COOK, the contract is now to kill him. An unsuccessful

attempt was made on 8/25/67 to shoot COOK and two shots were

fired at him, both of which missed.&

Close contact is being maintained with the informant

for further details regarding this situation.

MM 1231-C-TE IS A HIGHLY SENSITIVE SOURCE AND

EXTREME CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED IN THE UTILIZATION OF

INFORMATION. EMANATING FROM THIS. SOURCE.

.. THIS. INFORMATION

SHOULD NOT BE DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE OF THE BUREAU.

2.

noW

Approved:

Sent

M Per -

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32286421 Page 3

---

