# docid-32287058

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10196-10334

RECORD SERIES:

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1106

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/01/1962

5

THP, SURVEILLANCE, ACT, GAL, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287058

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Horey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

12 CONFIDI TAE

DATE: 11/1/62

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRE

BAC

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

(JFK)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

Re my FD-143 dated 8/2/62.

RE: Title

AUT INTORMATION CONTAINED

HANSIN IS UNCLASSIZLND EXCENS

VEERE SHOWS OTHERWISE

11-7-94

Class'ied by sys malange

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

marinettides

Symbol Number

CG 6343-CM

Chicago CON. INT

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone) Microphone

Declassify on:/PADR

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

gems:

Celano's Tailor Shop, meeting place for Chicago Top Hoodlums.

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Chicago, Lee,

F620- North Michigan Avenue, second FlOOr,

private

office of JIMMY CELANO, owner.

3. Location of monitoring plant: Central Tesur Plant

(57536 South Clark)street

4. Dates of initial authorization hd castanlatinois

Authorized 7/14/59. Installed 7/29/59.

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

Regular Democratic Organization, First Ward, 100 North

La Salle, 10/62

EX 18

RE: 1662-9-9-1104

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer

nB

questions:

Not apa teak fine utilized? 18 NOV 12

- 1962

b.. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone? !

C - Bureau (RM),

1 - Chicago

SECRET

WAR: BJD

Registered,

a P962

37

DocId: 32287058 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

SECRET

7.

Il a microphone surveillance involved, state number of' microphones actually

• used and location of each:

One "mouse" microphone unit installed behind radiator, which

is enclosed in a permanent wood panel housing in CELANO's

8. Is the Costallation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12: Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

No.

14. Cost

of Plant Premises:

2. Rental costs for plant premiseas None Place ofted an(E)

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Four other surveillances and 13 other lines.

SECRET CONTIX

STING

-2 -

DocId: 32287058 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 Special Employees (SEs)

$39,265.00 per annum

1 Special Agent (SA)

11,935.00 per annum

4 Special Agents

34,850.00 per annum

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

5 SEs - 200 hours or 100% of total work week

1 SA -

30 hours or 75% "

(CP only)

4 SAS

- 120 hours or 75% "

• I portionate nations monitored at" same plant, lish only 5)

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

CG 6343-C*

- 23 hours per week or 11% of total work week of

SEs in plant.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

CG 6343-C* - $4,319.15

17. Remarks (By SAC):

This surveillance will be continued for another

90 days UACB.

(CP only)

(Polish only

SECRET

- 3 -

DocId: 32287058 Page 4

---

