# docid-32330657

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90091-10088

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-636-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

07/05/1966

6

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330657

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Released under the Join F.

Кеплёну

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

f....a.

DL 166-102

file (DL 92-213) (BuFile 92-4587) in an effort to cover the

subject's activities on an intelligent basis. In the event

information received that subject in violation of one of

the Federal anti-gambling statutes, a substantive case will

be opened.

From information received from informant, MATTHEWS

apparently is operating, possibly bookmaking, from Apartment

232, 3946 West Northwest Highway, using the name R. C. Miller.

The Dallas Division will continue to cover subject's

activities through spot surveillances and contacts with

informants and sources in an effort to cover his

On 5/27/66, DL 271-C advised that the subject appears

at Denny's Restaurant for a late breakfast or an early lunch

on at least two or three occasions each week.

that on one occasion he observed MATTHEWS with a Dallas

sporting goods salesman by the name of DAY KRISTOFFERSEN,

whose wife, RUBY KRISTOFFERSEN, Is allegedly handling the

telephone in a bookmaking operation for JOE CAMPIDI.

On 6/10/66,

DL 275-C-TE advised that MATTHEWS

continues to frequent Denny's Restaurant during the late

morning hours.

Informant stated that he had not observed

any pattern to MATTHEWS' activities which would indicate

that he is using the restaurant to meet other characters.

On 6/24/66, DL 275-C-TE advised he observed

MATTHEWS' 1965 Oldsmobile parked in front of Apartment

132

and 232 located at 3946 West Northwest Highway, Sherwood

East Apartments.

Informant stated that he also has an apartment in

this location and observed MATTHEWS'

car during the afternoon

of 6/23/66, when leaving the apartment house parking lot.

-B*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330657 Page 2

---

