# docid-32301565

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10400

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-81

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM'

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/19/1963

• PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, RES, RAID, PLANE, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

w* 45881 DocId:32301565 Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

C

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Miami, Florida

December 19, 1963

Re:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTER:

Previous information furnished by MM T-1, a

Cuban

exile who has been Involved In ant1-Fidel Castro

for several years, reflects that De. Orlando

Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR),

an anti-Fidel Castro

organization of Cuban exiles, Is planning a bombing raid

against an o11 refinery at Nuevitas;i camaguey Province,

This raid was originally scheduled for the night

of December 14 or 15, 1963,

ponements.

The raid was to have been bered i Imp, B. w. I.

MM 1-1 Identified an Aero Commander airplane,

scheduled to make the raid..

It was planned, according

to MM T-1 that this plane would: be flown by Bush to

Bimint shortly prior. to the scheduled bombing raid.

The

plane would be. parked on the Bimini air strip, and Bush

would leave the plane and register at a Bimini hotel.

Thereafter, under cover of darkness, a Cuban pilot, accom-

panied by a Cuban crew of three individuals arriving by

boat from the Miami area, would load the plane with bombs

and take off about 1:00 a.w. for their target.

They

would then return to Bimini and depart under cover of

darkness in their boat for Miami.

MM T-1 advised on December 17, 1963, that

adverse weather conditions in the Miami

area had prevented

742861

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEL

5/6/85586 B277/Ga

6-11-94

NW 45881 DocId:32301565 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re: MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTER:

the Cuban pilot,

from taking

his third and fourth practice filghts with the Aero

Commander at Broward County International Airport on

December 16 and 17, 1963.

In the meantime, according to MM T-1,

Bosch and his companions continued with preliminary

preparations for the raid. The sum of $21.00 was

furnished to the pilotl

to purchase maps

and a computer for the raiding flight.

On December 18, 1963, MM. T+l advised that

since weather conditions

in the Miami area had cleared

Bosch planned to resume his schedule for the bombing

Bosch furnished $75.00 to Alpizar for another

practice flight scheduled to take place in the Aero

Commander on December 19, 1963, at Broward International

Airport. Bosch also indicated

that the last and final'

practice flight preparatory to the raid would take

place on the night of December 20, 1963, in the Aero

Commander but that this flight would not go over. Bimini

as had been originally planned, due to the opposition of;

Charles Bush, who felt that this would entall a security

risk.

MM T-1 advised

that Bosch also plana to have

the plane drop anti-Fidel Castro propaganda leaflets

during its flight over Cuba.

M I-1 also advised that Willien Johnson, who

ade arrangements for procurement of: the Aero Commande:

on behalf of Bosch, 1s-also involved: in making arrangemente

for procurement of/the

boat which will be used in trans-

porting members of the raiding party from Miamt to Bimini

and back again.

MM T-1 sald that it now appears only one

boat, instead of two,

will be used in this operation.

The

boat which will be used has been described by some of the

-2

=.

OTHER

4

BUD

Crubra

Foreila

NW 45881

DocId:32301565 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Re:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTER:

Individuals planning the raid as a 28 foot one motored

boat with a flying bridge of the

type

generally used

by sports fishermen.

MM T-I algopositively identified a photograph

Florida

made bombs which are being used in the raid. Ramirez

will take part in the raid as crewman.

TM T-I also identifled a photograph of Marcelino.

Jimenez, born July 18, 1908, In Cuba, Allen

Registratton Al2 413 528, as a Cuban exile who has been

associating with Dr. Orlando Bosch and Laredy Rodriguez,

Ireasurer of the MIRk, during the past several days.

MM T-1 observed a photo of Jose all Humberto

Rodriquez, Cuban exile born November 3,

mu Cubar:

Alien RegIstration A12 829 382, andusating tabears ceRemblance

to a Cuban who seems to be a close friend and companion

of Ramirez, and who has been observed to drive a Falcon

automobile, white in color. MM T-l belleves the driver

of the Falcon automobile may be scheduled to participate

in the bombing raid as a crewman.

PROPERTY OF THE FBI - This document contains

neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It 18

the property.of the FBI and 1s loaned to your agency; 1'

and 1ts contents are not to be distributed outside you:

agency.

- 3*-

-*

NH 45881

DocId: 32301565 Page 4

---

## Page 5

5D-28, (Rey: 12-13,58)

r.-

(

FBI

Date: 12/19/63

AIRTEL

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain texs or code)

Via

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

i

J

TO:

1, FROM:

1, 1. 0

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

SAC, MIAMI (205-2855) (P)

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

IS - CUBA

NM

is wayer

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

56/3383407/602 P3

Re Miami airtel

co Bureau, 12/16/6

Miami teletypes 12/17,18/63 to the Bureau.

3, 0т 6-1294 a pre

Enclosed are 12 copies of a letterhead memorandum,

dated and captioned as above.

Copies of instant letterhead memorandum are being

furnished locally to INS, State Department, Border Patrol,

Customs (local and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI, .

„CIA and " FAA.

Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAQ/505/c.F0m

3 by. UHN

By routing slip for mio.

12/23/6

Date.

MM T-1 15

Miami will

maintain close contact with MM T-1

and will

keep the Bureau and agencies informed of pertinent

developments.

3 - Bureau (Enc. 12) (AM) (RM)

- M1am1

BE 892-4424-81

GED: hmt

(5)

EX. - 117

12 no 9-0đ

wich.

Approved:

Por reVie

Special Agent in( Charter?

01964

ay FB

_M

Per

NW 45881

DocId: 32301565 Page 5

A, E

FOREIGN

---

## Page 6

FD-36 (Rove 12-13,58)

*-if

=r...

Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAO/INS/cO/Dia

cooleste, cabar

- Open, Scal

FBI

Date: 12/19/63

AIRTEL

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (8)

MOVINIENTO INSURRECIONAL.- DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

IS © CUBA

ALL NO 2O9 GITANEN

NM

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIEL

DATE 4) 120 611 BY. C9 - 1_301

56 55 3Р6 Бол /6CL 13 11,30

Miami teletypes 12/17,18/63 to the Bureau.

Enclosed are 12 copies of a letterhead memorandum,

dated and captioned as above.

Copies of instant letterhead memorandum are being

furnished locally to INS, State Department, Border Patrol,

Customs (local and regional), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI, OSI,

„GIA arid" FAA:,

12/23/43 by UHN/de

By routing slip for into.

Date

The Miami Office has also been keeping Mr. GREGG

BENTLEY; Special Branch, Bahamian Police, Nassau, currently

advised concerning all pertinent developments. Mr. BENTLEY

has advised that he has taken preparations to prevent the

plane from departing on a bombing raid in the event the MIRR

succeed in evading U. S. Interception.

MM T-1 1s

3625 Northwest

11th Street, Miami,

a former Cuban commercial pilot.

Miami will maintain close contact with MM I-1

and will keep

the Bureau and agencies informed of pertinent

developments.

3 - Mura

'Bureau (Enc.

12T (ĂM) (RM)

BE98492-4424-81

GED: hmt

(5)

EX. - 117

-9-6e

13 DEC-27-190

f-00/co

Approved:

for reviey

at FBTHO 51

HAYE

HSCA. r9:

1990-

- М

Per

7 9 JAN 101964

Special Agent in( Eharges

4;2.

NW 45881

DocId: 32301565 Page 6

OTHER 4

---

