# docid-32287681

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/13/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10457

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 159-757-40, 41

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

04/10/1962

5

SUBJECTS :

FCH, MISSING RECORDS, BURNED, PAGAN, LUIS E.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC RGM, NOTE

V9.1

NW 45750

DocId:32287681 Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

-

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeL oach

Evans

xxx Radio

• Teletype

DEFERRED

11-10-62

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAGE SAN JUAN

102222

UNSUBS; LOCAL 901, TEAMSTERS UNION, SU, PR; LMRDA - IM.

116

110

RESURAD TO BUREAU MARCH 7 LAST.

LT. RAFAEL ALVAREZ (NA), POPR, TODAY ADVISED SUO THAT

POPR INFORMANT "ACE", PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED, TOLD ALVAREZ

APRIL 9 LAST THAT REASON THE BOOKS AND RECORDS OF TEAMSTER

LOCAL 901 NEVER ARRIVED BY MAIL IN THE STATES WAS DUE TO THE

FACT THAT THEY WERE BURNED BY LUIS E. PAGAN, BOOKKEEPER,,

LOCAL 901, AND LEOPOLDO RAMOS DUCOS, TEAMSTERS ORGANIZER.

ACE LEARNED THIS IN CONVERSATION WITH PAGAN, AND WHEN ACE

TOLD PAGAN THAT PAGAN HAD BEEN PHOTOGRAPHED IN ACT OF BURNING

RECORDS, PAGAN STATED THIS WAS IMPOSSIBLE, AS PICTURES CANNOT

BE TAKEN AT NIGHT. INFORMANT UNABLE TO SUPPLY ADDITIONAL-

DETAILS AS TO PLACE OR EXACT DATE RECORDS BURNED, BUT

POsS ALARE

LT. ALVAREZ HAVING INFORMANT DETERMINE THIS AS SOON AS

POSSIBLE, IN ADDITION TO IDENTITIES

OF ANY OTHER INDIVIDUALS

PAGAN MIGHT HAVE TOLD RE BURNING OF RECORDS. INFORMANT

STATED RECORDS WERE BURNED AT INSTRUCTION OF FRANK CHAVEZ,

AND APPARENTLY AFTER FGJ SUBPOENA ISSUED FOR SAME. FACTS

DISCUSSED WITH USA FRANCISCO AO GIL, SU TODAY, WHO ADVISED

HE IS AWAITING INSTRUCTIONS FROM DEPARTMENT AS TO PROCEDURE

IN FILING' ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE FOR CONTEMPT ACTION AGAINST

CHAVEZ. BUREAU WILL BE KEPT MOVISED OF ANY PERTINENT

DEVELOPMENTS®

KH

X 101

REG. 44

RECEIVED:

1d05-9-157-40

SO AiR 16 1962

N

11 APR 11 1962

fare ellie one co prote in the reve message rape saise s

• be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

45750

DocId: 32287681

Page 2

---

