# docid-32130767

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DДTJ20141-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10039-10486

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3923

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

:[No Titlel

DATE

: 05/21/1964

PAGES

: 1.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, POSI-RP, ASSOC,

ACT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:11/26/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK |

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

Thereaseup

uner

the

Rec

Hote):

DATE: 11-14-205

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum CONFOENTA

TO

DIRECTOR, I SEEN

PROM

LEGẠT, MEXICO (105-3702) (P)

DATE:

5/21/64

SUBJECT:

(TFR; 1/22/96

CLASSIFIED BY 56685L0/GCi

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X()(6)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EX

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

CONFISENTIAN

ES

LEE HARVEY OSWALD,A AKA

Ar.

PRIATE

IS -R - CUBA

12-1-93

AND FIELI

Glagster

ADVISED BY

ENCLOSURES

Declassify on: BAOR JK

SLIP (S) 0

8-20-

DATE

Enclosed are 12 copies of a letterhead memorandum

recording contacts with sources who could not furnish informa-

tion that OSWALD had visited CHARLES SMALL's place of business

REFERENCE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Mexico City airtel dated 5/12/64

DEN ASCIFINATION AND/OR

INFORMATIOM

ADMINISTRATIVE

GENT GMB. &

The

only

sources of this office who

are in

con tastise

with CHARLES SMALL and who would be in a position to have some

Inowledge of SMALL's activities and contacts areXMEX-18, MEX-19,

MEX +48

and MEX+61

It is to be noted,

however, that

a review of the

information

received from CIA Mexico,

as a result of the

technical coverage maintained at SMALL's residence in September

October,

and November,

1963 *produced no indication that OSWALD:

Musite the store ox was

- /25/880

i touch, with SMALL

04)

8u) 31

XERÓX

T-1

T-2

T- 3

MEX-1 SCAN NEX-BOATIC 134-194)

UNRECORDED

CLASSIFICATION

REC 10

185-82555 - 3123

The enclosed memorandum is classified "Confidential'

since it contains information from securits informants operating

5 - Bureau (Encs. 12)

(1 - Liaison

(2 - Dallas;

, 100-10461) 2

1 - Mexico City

NLF : plb

(6)

1160022

"setame

DOJUN

DooId: 32

OSURE

CON

age

CONFIDENTIAI

13/ MR

---

