# docid-32288515

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10291

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 15-60061-42

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SLOAN, RICHARD L.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/15/1968

16

GMC, ASSOC, THEFT, FGJ, INDICTMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45865 DocId: 32288515 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

DL 15-6383

(Title continued)

CHARLES EDWARD FLETCHER;

JOE HUNTER HARRINGTON;

BILLY TEE DYER;

JOHN THOMAS BRIGHAM;

WILLIAM ROGER CRAWFORD;

JOHN R. CROSS;

MICHAEL JAY HUMAN, aka. Michael J. Human;

JAMES DANIEL SANDERS, aka. James D. Sanders;

DAVID EARL STOUT;

UNSUBS.

(Leads at Dallas, Texas, continued)

A. RICHARD WITKOWSKI, who purchased three television

sets from JOHN THOMAS BRIGHAM;

B. RAY SULLIVAN, who purchased one television from DAVID

EARL STOUT;

C. BOB HANCOCK, who received one television set from

RICHARD WITKOWSKI;

D. BILL WARE, who purchased television set from DONALD

EUGENE MCGHEE;

E. F. G. SHANKLES, who purchased television sets from

CHARLES THOMAS

SCRIBNER, returned one of the Dallas

PD and stated that the

second was stolen from his

home.

(2)

Will interview DON ELDON SMITH, Dallas PD No. 47183,

presently on bond from Dallas County SO.

SMITH stated to

Detective HOMER BURRIS, Dallas PD, that he accompanied BILLY ELWOOD

SPEER to Dallas on two occasions when SPEER purchased approximately

20 televisions from instant theft. SMITH further stated that he

also is aware that SPEER or McGANN sold approximately 20 televisions

to RICHARD PAYNE, part owner of Belknap Motors, located

in Fort

Worth, Texas.

'(3)

Will locate and interview JEFF CALVIN SIMMS, a Dallas

poor hustler, Dallas PD No. 49549, who is reported by DL 137-2240

(a PCI) as the individual who assisted GEORGE ALBERT McGANN haul

several truck loads of televisions to Fort Worth, Texas.

B

COVER PAGE

HW

45865 DocId:32288515 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 15-6383

AT FORT WORTH, TEXAS: Will locate and interview TOMMY

MORMON, address unknown;

who lives near and is well known at the

Surf Side Six Motel and Lounge, regarding his knowledge of four

truck loads of televisions from

instant theft being stored in

his garage by McGANN.

AT TYLER, TEXAS: Will follow and report prosecutive

action on the following individuals presently under indictment in

EDT:

JOHN THOMAS BRIGHAM

WILLIAM ROGER CRAWFORD

JOHN R.

CROSS

DAVID

EARL STOUT

JAMES D. SANDERS

MICHAEL J. HUMAN

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 7/11/68,

• DL 137-2240, reported

to

SA RICHARD L. SLOAN that through her working relationship with

PAT HALLMAN, wife of subject HAROLD LESTER HALLMAN, she has learned

that PAT HALLMAN's sister SUE was at one time in possession of one

of the television sets from instant theft, and that Mrs. JACK

ROWE, mother of subject HAROLD LESTER HALLMAN was also in possession

of one television from instant theft.

further advised that CLAUDE E. BRADSHAW at one

time had one television in his home and one television at the

apartment of his girl friend TRUDY (LNU), from instant theft.

further stated that she was in the home of WAYNE

FRANKLIN and observed one of the televisions from instant theft,,

and later learned from BILLY TEE DYER that FRANKLIN had purchased

four televisions from DYER. Of these four televisions, one went to

FRANKLIN's home,

one to his son, name unknown, living in Dallas,

Texas, and the disposition of the other two sets is unknown to her.

further advised that (FNU) SIMMS, Nickname !

"BIGG-IN"

loads of televisions to Fort Worth.

assisted «(SCRIBNER and HALLMAN deliver several truck

further advised that she had been contacted

telephonically by FRANK CATON, Attorney for BILLY TEE DYER, who

asked if

would marry DYER so that she would not have to

testify against DYER in Federal Court.

_D -

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

NW 45865 DocId:32288515 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 15-6383

provided the above information on a confidential OTHER 4

basis, and asked that her name

• and information be protected.

All leads in instant case have been specifically enumerated

due to the fact case Agent is under official transfer and scheduled

to depart 8/15/68.

the submission of a report within 5 days of taking into custody of

recently indicted subjects was not possible.

not a to pasto takine anto ustay or

E*

-

@ COVER PAGE

Harri

HW 45865

DocId: 32288515 Page 4

---

