# docid-32305902

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10289-10032

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-1068

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WH 45945 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/10/1976

•PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 45945

DocId: 32305902

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

August 10, 1976

In response to inquiry by the Bureau, our

Los Angles Office has furnished a summary that would

provide logical motives which may have contributed

to the death of John Roselli, prominent West Coast

La Cosa Nostra (LCN) figure.

John Roselli was active in California and

Las

Vegas in handling affairs

for the Chicago LCN

family. Roselli, in the 1940's, was convicted for

the extortion of

individuals in

the movie industry

and was sentenced to 10 years. The primary witness

in this matter was killed as a result of a bombing

of his automobile.

In the late 1960's, Roselli was convicted for

entering this country illegally.

He was sentenced

to ll months in custody of the Attorney General.

At the same time, he was convicted in a conspiracy

to violate the ITAR - Gambling Statute.

This involved

a scheme using electronic devices to cheat at the

famous Beverly Hills Friars Club.

He was sentenced

in this case to four years' custody of the Attorney

General. Because of his alien status, deportation

proceedings were brought against him by the INS.

He was ordered deported, but this could not be

effected because no country could be located who

would receive him.

In May, 1970, Roselli was called as a witness

before the FGJ, Los Angeles, dealing with the hidden

ownership of the Frontier Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada.

Roselli was granted immunity and testified

before

chis rGJ.He was quoted by newspapers. as saying,

"I'm doing my best to cooperate.

I just hope I'n

doing the right thing." Subsequent to this, Detroit

ICN members were convicted in the Frontier Hotel

matter:

JEK Law 10(a)2

SD 1064-C-TE has speculated that Roselli was

possibly killed because of his testimony before this

FGJ and the involvement of LCN figures in these cases.

Bureau informants are being contacted in this

matter and you will be advised of developments in

this case

1 - Mr Held

1

- MI•

Adams

1

- Mr. Gallagher

1

- Mr. Moore

Irb lib

APPROVED:

Ext. Affairs

Assoc. Dir.

Fin. & Pers

DED. AD ASAP.

Gen. Inv.

Dep. AD Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serva

that'

92-3267-1068

Laboratory.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eyal.

Rec. Mgmat

Spec. lov

Training.

NW 45945 DooId: 32305902 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

PAGE FOUR

THE APPEARANCES OF

BEFORE THIS

GRAND JURY GREATLY ANGERED THE CHICAGO FAMILY AND THEY ESTABLISHED

FRANK LA PORTE IO MAINTAIN A LIAISON WIIH SD 1B64-C-TE, HIMSELF

A MEMBER. THIS INFORMANT LEARNED THAT THIS GROUP PLANNED TO KILL

RO SELLI BASED ON HIS TESTIMONY BEFORE THIS GRAND JURY AND THAT THEY

WOULD NOT DO IT AT THAT TIME BECAUSE OF THE FEDERAL CASES THAT WERE

ONGO ING, BUT RATHER WOULD WAIT UNTIL THINGS HAD QUIETED DOWN.

AT ONE PO INT FRANK LA PORTE STATED THAT ROSELLI WOULD BE LURED INTO

A MEETING BY A FRIEND USING A SUITABLE PRETEXI AND THEN MURDER HIM.

SD 1064-C-TE SPECULATED THAT THEY MIGHT USE SOMEONE LIKE SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR. OF FLORIDA TO SET UP THE MEETING •

IT IS ALSO NOTED IHAT ZERILLI, POLIZZI AND GIARDANO WERE

CONVICTED LARGELY ON THE TESTIMONY OF MAURICE FRIEDMAN WHO,

ALONG WITH ROSELLI, WAS A DEFENDANT IN THE FRAIRS CLUB CASE.

FRIEDMAN WAS ORIGINALLY INTRODUCED INTO IHIS GROUP BY JOHN RO SELLI

AND THEY HAVE OPENLY STATED THAI THEY HOLD ROSELL I RESPONSIBLE FOR

THEIR CONVICTIONS. GIARDANO 'S HIDDEN POINTS IN THE FRONTIER HOTEL

WAS KNOWN TO VERY FEW PEOPLE. GIARDANO HAD INFORMED RO SELLI IHAI

HE WAS A POINTHOLDER. GIARDANO BLAMES RO SELLI FOR HIS

92-3267-1068

NW 45945 DooId: 32305902 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA

92-113

PAGE FIVE

INVOLVEMENT IN THIS CASE.

FOR INFORMATION OF MIAMI, LOS ANGELES INFORMANT LA 4476G-TE

WHO FROM TIME TO TIME RECEIVES INFORMATION CONCERNING ROSELLI,

HAS BEEN CONTACTED CONCERNING HIS DEATH AND HAS NO POSITIVE

INFORMATION TO FURNISH.

CAUTION

THE INFORMATION PROVIDED IN THIS TELETYPE AS RECEIVED FROM

SD 1064€-TE IS HIGHLY SENSITIVE AND IF DISSEMINATION OF ANY

INFORMATION IS MADE TO OUT SIDE AGENCIES, INVESTIGAIING RO SELLI'S

DEATH, SPECIFIC QUOTES SHOULD BE AVOIDED AND GENERALITIES USED

IN ORDER TO PROTECT THIS VALUABLE SOURCE.

THE ABOVE SUMMARY HAS BEEN

FURNISHED IN ORDER TO

PROVIDE LOGICAL MOTIVES WHICH MAY HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO THE

DEATH OF JOHN ROSELLI.

END

ITH 45945 DocId: 32305902 Page 4

---

