# docid-32288375

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 U5c 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :.

124-10199-10151

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-196

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/27/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GAL, TRA, REL, ASSOC, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288375

Page 1

153

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

ShER WAGNER, ONE TWO IHREE E. FIFTY SEVENTH ST• 2.

NEW YORK• INVESTIGATION

CONTINUING TO DETERMINE IDENTITY OF SHERLE WAGNER. INFORMATION

PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT ALEX WAS SEEN ON STREET WITH GEORGIATORAKE,

NIGHT CLUB SINGER• GEORGIA DRAKE IS CURRENTLY SINGING AT THE EMPIRE

ROOM OF THE PALMER HOUSE, CHICAGO, FILLING IN FOR A BOOKING ORIGINALLY

SCHEDULED BY JOEY BISHOP. GEORGIA DRAKE INTERVIEWED AND ADVISED THAT

SHE MET ALEX ABOUT THREE YEARS AGO AT A CHANCE MEETING WITH A GROUP

OF PEOPLE AT AN UNRECALLED GREEK CAFE IN THE VICINITY OF HARRISON

AND HALSTED, CHICAGO. SHE STATED THAT SHE RECALLED THAT HER FATHER,

NOW DECEASED, HAD MENTIONED AT ONE TIME THAT HE KNEW ALEX/S FATHER

SINCE BOTH WERE GREEK FAMILIES. SHE STATED THAT SHE COULD NOT RECALL

ANYONE ELSE IN THE GROUP WHEN SHE MET ALEX AND KNOWS OF NO ASSOCIATES

OF ALEX. SHE STATED SHE HAS NEVER DATED ALEX AND KNOWS NOTHING

CONCERNING HIS PERSONAL LIFE OR HIS ACTIVITIES. SHE STATED THAT

SINCE HER FIRST MEETING WITH ALEX SHE HAS SEEN HIM ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS

AT VARIOUS RESTAURANTS IN CHICAGO, SUCH AS FISH/S RESTAURANT AND

FRITZEL/S RESTAURANT. SHE STATED THAT THE LAST TIME SHE HAD SEEN

ALEX WAS ABOUT THREE MONTHS AGO WHEN SHE MET HIM ON THE STREET IN

THE VICINITY OF THE DRAKE HOTEL, CHICAGO. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE

LASH E ADVISED THAT ONE JOHNSON FROM CICHER IS A QUOTE

COMER UNQUOTE IN THE OUTFIT/S GAMBLING OPERATIONS AND THAT HE WORKS

FOR ALEX. ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS.

8-58 PM OK FBI WA RAC

DocId: 32288375 Page 2

---

