# docid-32298604

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10222-10380

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-301

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/02/1968

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC A/T

19.1..

DocId: 32298604

Page 1

87

---

## Page 2

Released

DATE: 11-14-2017

under the Johu T. Kennedy Assassination Recörds Collection Hot of 1992/(44205C

Tote).

DIT INU02

EZ:

ASTON CONTAINA

TACAD SHONN

OUMERWISE

5668 Sco/Gde

0(6)

139/98

CLASSIFIE

DECLASSE

1968

MAILED 24

AUG8

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

T'avel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

COMM-FBI

8/7/68

CIA MAS NO OSJFCTION TO

DECLASSIF CATION ANDIOR,

Airtel

RELEASE UP CIA INFORMATION,

IN THiS DOCUMENT, K 9-22-97

To:

Legaty

stave 11

10-JEр)

From:

Director,

31 (100-339235

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CH

1-

Cotter

- Mr.

Anderson

ReBuairtels 7/24/68 and 7/30/68 and New York

airtel

8/2/68, copies of which are enclosed for Legat,

Ottawa.

For the information of Legat, [Ottawa,

Susan Frank

is a U.S, citizen who has been active in pro-Chicom matters

in the U.S, and allegedly has been in contact with Chicom

intelligence in London and appears to be involved in

intelligence activities for the Chinese communists.

She

recently left the U.S. on a trip to Paris and London to

verify the purge of her pro-Chicom friends in Peking,

Israel Epstein, Michael Shapiro, Sidney Kittenberg and

Anna Louise Strong.Ve are going to exploit the situation

by attempting to disrupt Frank's activities in London and

Paris and to attempt also to tarnish her image with the

Chicons.

XAs it is indicated in the enclosed airtels,

T* ANG Ming-chao addressed

a group of Canadian eftists

in Peking in 1966.0It is believed that this is the same u

individual who is a close contact of Susan Frank. Kor the

reasons indicated in the enclosed airtels,

, we are going

to

utilize these relationships and direct an anonymous letter

group who is also a friend of Susan Frank.

Enclosures : 3

1 - New York (100-42479)

I - Foreign Laison Unit (route th

ry for review)

EJO: wmk um

(7)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

SECRET

AUG 14

MAIL ROOMI

$8

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32298604 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Not of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Airtel to Legat,

Ottawa

RE:

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANE

100-339235

In response to Bureau's instructions,

New Vork Office in relYairtel submitted the taxt of a

Legat is requested to

• prepare a type-written

letter to T'ANG on Stationery purchased in Canada

Sand

utilizing the text Suggested by the New Tork Office.

It

will not be necessary to utilize the apostrophe in writing

T'ANG's surname or the Bureau approved manner of writing

Chinese names, for to do so would indicate a knowledge of

the Chinese language on the part of the writer which might

not be the case.

It is suggested that the name be written

in the following manner: Tang ling Chao. C

Legat sbould also advise RCIP on a confidential

basis ot

the details of this operation, and obtain

its concurrence

prior

to sending out the letter described above.

NOTE:

Susan Frank is known to have wide spread contacts

with whom she has discussed recent reports of a purge of

her Caucasian friends in Peking who are working there for

the Chicons.

She has left the u on a trip to Paris and

London to verily these reports. We are attempting to exploit

this situation by having an anonymous letter written by a

person En Canadasyho proportedly was a member of a Canadian(s)

left wing group

which visited China in 1966.

The fetter

would be addressed to the individual who greeted the group

when it visited Peking and who is believed to be identical

with a close contact of Susan Frank.

The letter would point

out the concern of the writer and the subject over the afore-

Primary objective of this operation is to

shake the confidence of the Chinese in Susan Frank. New York

has submitted the text of the letter to be used and it is

concerning this operation.

SECRET

+ 24

DocId: 32298601 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Dáte:

8/2/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR,

, FBI (100-339235)=

SAC, NEW YORK (100-42479) (P)

SUSAN HEILIGMAN

IS-CH

FRANK

a win baras

NG

TOO CITIE

10/25/54

Cartel to Fregat, Ott

and Nyairtel to Bu 7/25/68 re observations

concerning proposal

For information of CG, reBuaintel 1/24/60, proposed

mailing of anonymous letter from CanadaSto TANG Ming-chao, Vice

Chairman,

Chinese People's Committee on World Peace,

expressing

concern regarding fate of ISRAEL EPSTEIN and wife, SIDNEY

RITTENBERG, MICHAEL SHAPIRO and ANNA LOUISE STRONG. Letter

would also express concern of subject with objective TANG would

be concerned re subject's capabilities and indiscretions as

well as to cause

a disruption of her attempt to determine the

fate of EPSTEIN, et al

ReBuairtel 7230/68, indicated such operation would

work to the advantage of the ad doc committee ants the

event subject cares to confide in the AHC. Ts)

As instructed by Bu,

Nosubmits a suggested text along

the followins lines (a)

such letter is to be prepared and Ior-

warded to tANG.M

(7F60 429/981 56855201662

EX-100

DECLASSIFY OM: 25'@D(6)

REC 11

100-339235559

C. = Bishop

3-Chreas (5900-42 353) (AHC( INFO) (RM)

I-New York

EY: ikp

-(5)

(6)

10 AUG SE

1968

Approved:

Litt

(Special Agent in Charge

NAL

SECa]

Secret

Per

DocId: 32298604 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John FT'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRAU

NY 100-42479

"I was one of the fortunate group of individuals from

Canada

who were afforded the privilege of visiting your country

in October, 1966.

"Perhaps you will not remember me, but I had the

pleasure of meeting you in Peking during our visit when you

and other members of the Chinese People's Government greeted

and allowed us.

the opportunity to present questions regarding

your country.

"At that time, I expressed somc concern at, what

appeared to be, excesses of the Cultural Revolution and wondered

whether some of the people who had suffered violence and abusc

thate op:

at the hands of the Red Guards might not in fact be innocent.

Your reply was that as a result of over enthusiasm it was always

possible to make mistakes, however, they would be rectifted

in time. (4)

"My purpose in writing is to express my concern and

that conveyed to me by a friend from NY, SUE, a loyal Maoist, and

acquaintance of yours, over the fact that recent reports havc

indicated that long time friends of the Chinese People's Government,

ISRAEL EPSTEIN and his wife and MICHAEL SHAPIRO had been arrcsted

for espionage; SIDNEY RITTENBERG had been purged from his job with

Radio Peking and ANNA LOUISE STRONG had been condemned as an

"imperialist agent.

We are deeply concerned rogarding

• the treat-

ment of these friends of the Chinese People's Government and

wonder whether the abuses which I previously mentioned are con

tinuing in spite of your statement the mistakes would be rectified.

If these rumors are true ar serious mistake has been made and we

appeal to you as a friend to intercede on behali of the trienas

of the Chinese People's Government. CalU)

"You can well understand my reason for not signing the

letter or identifying SUE, for to

so could conceivably discloso

our identities to the authorities.

"/s/ A Friend"

Information. copy being furnished CG in view

Interest in subjects it concerns AHC and for any possible

of their

comment rc the operation. ye)

-2-

SECRETO

DocId: 32298604 Page 5

---

