# docid-32308642

## Page 1

-eased under the John F, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992(44 U5C 2107 Hote) .E

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10295-10000

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

122-2557-176

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NK

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/02/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

APR, PETITION, FILED, REL, TELCAL, EMMOTT, JOHN E.

MRS.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

Docid: 32308642 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote):

DA 5E56 Ale142-2015

.. FBI

Date:

11/2/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

REGULAR

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (122-2557)

FROM:

SAC, NEWARK (92-732) (P)

SUBJECT:

ANTHONY - PROVENZANO;

WALTER A. DORN - VIC

AR; LMRA - IM

ReBuairtel, 10/28/64.

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and four

copies of a letterhead memorandum setting forth information

received from WILLIAM CHASE, BLMR, Newark, N. J.

A copy of the LHM is being furnished to USA, Newark,

N. J. under separate cover.

On 10/29/64, Mrs. JOIN E. EMMOTT, West Caldwell

No Jo, advised she received a telephone call from NUNZIO

PROVENZANO, Business Agent, Local 560, IBT, and a brother

of subject, who asked her to have her

husband contact him on

an important matter as

soon as possible.

On the same date JOHN E. EMMOTT stated he did not

plan to call NUNZIO PROVENZANO-and In fact intended to be

unavailable to him. He stated he will satntain contact with

the Newark Office.

As the Bureau is aware EMMOTT had a conversation

with ANTHONY PROVENZANO and his attorney, (FNU) ZOLOTO on

9/23/64, as set forth in Newark report of 10/9/64.

For the information of WFO, AUSA RICHARD A. LEVIN,

Newark, advised on 10/28/64, that the government's memorandum

of opposition to the petition filed by PROVENZANO, had been

filed at the Supreme Court on

10/26/64.

•ENCLOSURE

*3-Bureau (Enc. 5) D

127-25509.116

1-WFO (92-368) (Info)

2-Newark

NICH HD/mpt

(6)

"-3-64 871/641

= NOV

3 1964 %

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

NO

DocId: 32308642

Page 2

I, Aged in Charge

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reoorde Coltsetion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 -Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

10/28/64

AIRIEL

1 - Mr. Kieffer

TO:

SAC, NEWARK (92-732)

FROW:

DIRECTOR, FBI (122-25582-174

ANTHONY PROVENZANO.

aka.

REC. 66

BALTER A. DOEN - VICTIM

AR; LVRA - IN

Reurairtel 10/26/64.

Intormation received Iron Willian Chase

in reairtel should be incorporated into Ill suitable

for dissemination to the Criminal Division of the Department

which should be

furnished the Bureau promptly.

Also send

USA, Newarks;

will be aware of

this situacion.

No reference should be made therein to subject

matter of Newark rad 10/16/64 entitled "GIRARDO CATENA; AR. "

EFK: eem

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Evans -

Gale .

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

T'rotter.

66N00

3

DocId: 32308642

MAILED 51

OCT 2 7 1964

COMM-FBI

146

1964

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DATE 11F94-2 oahn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act al 1992 (11 USE 2107 Note).

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date:

10/26/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (122-2557)

FROM:

SAC, NEWARK (92-732) (P)

SUBJECT: ANTHONY

PROVENZANO

aka; WALTER A.

DORN - VICTIM

AR; LMRA - IM

Re Newark radiogram, 10/16/64 entitled "GERARDO

CATENA, AR", Bufile

92-3172.

On 10/21/64, WILLIAM CHASE, BLMR, Newark, confidentially

advised as follows:

N

recently stated that resident Let tate

described that would prove that PROVENZANO was "framed" in

this matter.

Another

IBT source has advised CHASE that PROVENZANO

is plänning "something big" in his case, but that there is

a chance that this might backfire and cause him more trouble.

No definite information as to what PROVENZANO is planning was

obtained®

CHASE

stated that it is rumored that PROVENZANO

has fired JAKFARIEDIAN counsel for Loça 560 Ior many

years for an unknown reason; and that JOSEPHXPECORA, an

officer of Local 863, IBT. Newark, had had a personal

conference with PROVENZANO before a regular meeting of

Local 560 on 10/20/64• PECORA and PROVENZANO left the

hall together after the meeting.

It is not PECORA's normal

practice to attend meetings as local she?

-255174

K3 - Bureau

2 - Newark

18 OCT 29/1964

FHD : jah

(5)

-I00

Approved:

Sent

. M

Special

harge

DocId: 32308642

Page 4

---

