# docid-32338706

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90143-10124

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

i Kennar 1on Recorde

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/04/1941

'PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

_ CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338706

Page 1

2.

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF MINES TEATIRN

Form No. 1

HARKIN IS UNCWISSIFILD

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

EXCEPT THERE SHORT ILE NO.

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

10-4-41

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

8127-10/4/41

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS E. MYERS

CHARACTER OF CASE

100-6769

GUS

HERBERT BIBERMAN

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

ELHARD OARTER departed fog New YOrk City 9-26-41;

subjeat mont to Hollywood Besch. On 8-28-41 BIBERIAN TO-

turned and Imediatoly conferred WIth JANS MEADS, uho indI-

datod difficultdos had ariaos 1a porfectiss orgasization of

OOMITILE FOR MEDIDAL AID TO RUSSIA. SubjoOt aûTIsed MRADE

to cosmunleate with CARTER la New YOrk, requesting his so-

tura to holp out with situation; CAFTER WIll, agala sono to

L0B ARgOLes neck of Ostober 6 to 11, 1941. subjoot and

MEADE ArTAngIE fUnOtIONS at WhIch CARTER w111 furthar at-

tompt "to sall" profoot of Russian ald; will carsentrate on

daTALOpIrE CooperatIos 11 IDS ARgOlOS, Santa BArDAra, and

Sen Diogo. Datalla of plans sot out. MIADE tantatively

1dontified ss underground manbor Communiat PArtLY 181205

belloved rotiiod lieutenant-commandor, U.S-H./ Contaoto or

SUb100E WITh JOHN HONARD LANSON On 9-89-41 and 10-1-41 s0te

ROSUlta of MAIL DOTOrS ON LANSON and BIBLIMAN sOt Out. Ad

ditional bank ancount of subjoot and nife rufloats 45,000

balande.

Purchand of dalry farn by subject's "ifo noted.

subjoot@ ahooking.accoant 179S 8-15-42 80 9-18-41 refloote

apparantly sorual activity. Lubjoot sdontified as aoqualated

GREGORY Lo IRSES, known Soviot off10jale.

OsIzEN contacted subjoot rulative mad reating sponsored by

NOT THAN G

ALICAN COUNCIL ON SOVIST RELATIONS. OtivItION Of FIGHT

FOR FRRIDOM grOup indicatod. Maturity of confidential plas

for dally association of subjoet mith bureau personsal

hassalthed boy.

- P.

toky

noted.

Beatene

spattey

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

-86

¡CIAL AGEN

249416

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

5'- Bureau

- New York

2 - Los Angoles

SEORET

DO NOT WRITE IN TH

ESE SPACES

100-370750-

NOT RICONU

82

AUG

2 1950

CCAFIDENTIAL

+970427647797

7-2084

HH 54460 DooId:32338706

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEASE!

CCONPDENTIAL

into setion slong the desired linos.

It will be notod further that tho

basio plan for his activities lu in line with the plan of his prior visit.

namely a luncheon sponsored by outstanding parsons 1a to be given, at

which CARTER will have an opportunity to mele an address, as he did when

previously in LOS Angolos.

Arrangements are proceeding in the los Angeles

Division to insure appropitate covorage of CARTOR'S arrival and events

transpiring while he is hero. The New York Field Division has been re-

quested by teletype to place dARTER under such appropriate elose surveil-

Lance as will discloso his activities, connoctions, and time of depar

with reforoneo to the individuals mentioned in the tole-

aran fron CARTER above cited, it is interesting to note that immediately

following his conference with MEADE, subjest endeavored to get in touch

with Senater ROBERT W. KENNY, but on inguiry learned that Senator KRUNY

would be out

of town for several weeks. It is noted that Senator KUNNY

1s a prominent political personage, being a state Senator of Callfornia

and frequently montioned as a possible candidate for the governorshiy of

the state.

It was fron the office of senator KENNY, vie MAURICE COHEN,

as noted in the uriteres report dated Septenber 20, 1941, that BIBERAN

obtained a partial list of possible sponsore for the Rusalan Relief Pro

500% (Q)(U)

e It will' be recalled that reference repert estos a suggestion

Dy BIBERIAN that JAND MADE wad the daughter of a Commander in the United

States Navy, which faot he considered important background for the ua0 of

LEADE in the offico of Russian Var Reliof. Collatoral Inguiries concerning

JANE MRADE have disolosed that she reaides at 11168 Moorpark St., North

•Eollywood, Callf., telophone SUnset 25003. Thie tolophone is listod to

KURT NEUMANN, with whom MEADE has been in contaot, as noted in reference

report, under such oirountanees as to warrant the statement that NADE'S

true name 18 MEE. RUHT NIUMAN However, it is noted that a 1940 Chevrolet

coupe, Callfornia Ileonse 4593-437 has been Proquently obverved in the

vicinity of BIBERIAN'S hone, and this car is registered to JANE LAISON MEADE

of 1154 North formosa Street, Hollywood. The car also was observed parised

1n the drivenay of DITTRI TIQKIN'S home on the occasion of a luncheon

meeting whieh 10 known to have been attended by JANE MEADE (NEUNANN), aB

recorded in the mitor's report in this case dated sept. 20. Thie women

1a rogularly and alwaye referred to by subject and hie associates an JANI

MEADE, and accordingly for purposes of clarity and consistency, she w11l

Do thas referred in horain and in subsequnt reporta on thia maeel ea

Confidential Hational Dofense Informant Los Angeles No.

1060, whose identity la known to the Bureau, has advised the writer

that lu connoosion with his othor inquirios ho has obsorved MEATI tO

be in charge of the offico of the COMMITTEE FOR MEDIOAL AID TO RUSSIA,

located at 8633 Sunset Boulevard.

This Informant stated that this faet

caused him immediately to associate the Mediçal A1d to Rugsia Project

GREM

N915389499

NW 54460 DooId: 32338706 Page 3

---

