# docid-32290970

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2017

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10246

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-83564-1ST NR 7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53074 Date:

06-02-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KELLY, WILLIAM P.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI,

TITLE:

DATE: 08/22/1962

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

MLO, BKG, RES, ASSOC, REL, AFFIL, PROSTITUTION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS :

Release

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/01/2017

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

1и 33074 DocId: 32290970 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAM 31-7747

Registration card #B7461 in the name of RUBIN

PRATS, Miami - Colonial Hotel, Miami, Florida, Room 831

(2 persons),

stayed at the hotel from February 4, 1961,

to February 8, 1961.

Miss NOLAN had no information concerning any

prostitution activities on the part of PRATS.

On August 7, 1962, FLOYD MINER, Constable and

operator of the Smith's Detective Agency, Florida Power

and Light Building, Miami, Florida, advised SA ROBERT F.

FETZNER it has been alleged to him that RUBEN PRATS, a

Cuban, operates a stable of Cuban prostitutes and has a big

call girl operation going.

MINER stated that PRATS was

alleged to have operated 160 girls in Havana, Cuba. U

According to MINER, one of the girls handled by PRATS

AS ILONA MARITA LORENZ, 1985 North Hibiscus Drive, Miami:

WINER described this address as a house of prostitution.

According to MINER, ILONA MARITA LORENZ waS the

subject of an article featured in "Confidential" magazine

sonetime ago in which she claimed to have been raped by

VIDEL CASTRO.

MINER stated that it is alleged further

that PRATS

has LORENZ handle prostitution dates with former president

of Venezuela, MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, a resident of Miami Beach,

Florida.

LORENZ is alleged to have had a baby born of her

relationship with PEREZ JIMENEZ.

On August 16, 1962, DOUGLAS BREHM, Investigator

INS, Miami, advised he could locate no record in the files

*;

of that office regarding ILONA MARITA LORENZ.

A Central INS Lookout Notice concerning victim SLAZQUEZ

was placed during

July, 1962.

-9*

NW 53074 DocId: 32290970

Page 2

---

