# docid-32308225

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10083

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/09/1959

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/27/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32308225

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1902(41 U56 2107 Hote).

DATE RAV +1432017

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont v

Mr. Deleach.

Mr.

McGuire.

Mr. Mohr..-

FBI

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Rosen.-

Date: 12/9/59

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Transmit the following in .

Tele. Room

Via

AIRTEL

SECRE

(Type in prain

text or code)

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy...

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1423)

FROM: SAC, WFO (105-26269)

SUBJECT:

I.

IRVING SAVIDSON 2-4-98

IS-ISRAEL

Glasslin

Declausi

OAD

REP'I FOi.

5-31 - 6.

as above.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Remyairtel and letterhead memo dated

(JFK /2/8/59, captioned

Enclosed herewith are 8 copies of a letterhead memo

captioned and dated as above.

The source of the information

is WF 568-S* (5)

(belteved to be TOM WEBB, formerly an SA of this Bureau)

DAVIDSON said he had yetually written the letter,

dated 12/1/59]G)

kind of letter SHIMUN PEREZ OrYPERES

_(Israeli Chief

..+.+

of Staff) should write.

The letter was written on "TOM's"

stationery and eventually its contents were to come from PEREZi

on the latter's stationery in the form of a personal note to

General GERHART®

be noted that when DAVIDSON advised he had

talked out i on by code, YA vecautioned him and

is a dangerous instrument here.

& ENCLOSURE

3 - Bureau

• (Encls. 8) 17

ALL INFOCIETING COUTS

1 - WFO

MPC/bls

(4)

REG 14

2-1423=47

AIRTEL

AGENCY STaTE,

0511I50N

REQ., REC'D

DATE FORW: 12-10-559

HOW FORW.0-143-

A DEC 11 1950

C - Wick

раніс

Special Agent in Charged

Approved:

68DEC 1

DocId: 32308225

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kénnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WFO 105-26269

SECRET

The memo is classified "Confidential" since it tends

to reveal FBI investigative

interest in a foreign diplomatic

official and diplomatic establishment and since data

could reasonably result innidentification of a confidential

reported (s)

informant of continuing value and

compromise future effectiveness

thereof •

SECRET

DooId: 32308225

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

5-3-105R

DECLASSIFY Or

V: 25X

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SEGRET

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

December 9, 1959

ALL 18S00137109

• CO91A1

MA 101 T: 1:

-SIFIER

SribawisE

11-14-94

Classifed husS

28 mACISe

Le IRVING DAVIDSON

Declas

NDR

OrK)

On December 8, 1959,

san anfirma thath is fug davidson,

reliable information in the Po businessman, and who is registered

as all Agent Washingtonited Status Justice Department fresist

governments of Nicaragua and Israel, had seen Colone Aharon

Yacik, Israeli Military,

Naval and Mir Attache, on

date concerning an invitation to a General Gerhatt [to visit

Spae 1.]

(Gerhart is possibly Lieutenant General John feuerhart,

who

listed

in the June, 1959, United States Department of Defense

telephone directory as being attached to the Air Force and assigned

to the Office of the Deputy Chief Of Staff for Plans and Programs)

FK)

According to Davidson,

Gerhart would prefer that the

invitation be made according to the strictest protocol o avoid any

criticism and that the invitation should come through the United

States Embassy in Israel LS

Davidson advised he had written a letter to a Mr. Selinger

(possibly shnue

Selinger Director of the Israeli Defense Ministry]S)

in New York City)!

Davidson had read the

letter,

which Genefan Gerhart was to eventually receive from Israel,] (5)

to General Gerhart who approved of its contents.

Davidson felt

this was the right procedure

ot deats it the contic aspect

Davidson also advised that Colonel Yari had suggested

Israeland that a copy of tvr, Selinges

through the United States Embassy in

communicatien in this regard be

privately.

was being advised of the

the proposed invitation.

CC TO: Dept Agricultia nepection General's office

REQ. RECD 9 - 20-67

C SEP * 81962

2-1423-47

ANS.

ENCLOSURE

BY:

CONF

FIDENTIAL

SECRET

DocId: 32308225

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• *

AL

RE:

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

SECRET

Davidson also had talked with a Colonel

told Davidson the best way to

Gerhart was through

[official channels to protect General Gerharte

DIE.

This document concha neither

resurgecame de emilandas of

t = 1.1.

the irI and is iced to corr agency:

it cruisanced desi

i La

SECREX

-2-

DocId: 32308225

Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDEN

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JO. /ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

ALE INFORMATIOR COSTIOUGH

RE53319

UNCIASSIFIEN

KROOP: INNENE SHOWN

STASAWISE

SECRET

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

December

9, 1959

LIVING DAVIDSON

On December &,

1959, an inforuont

who has furnished

reliable infornation in

advised that I. Irving Davidson,

s an Agentwith the onlted States Jessica

D. C. businessuan, and uno is registered

Department for the

governnents ot Nicaragua and Israel had

seen colonel Aharon

variv, Israeli Military, Naval and Air Attache,on the same (S)

date concerring

an invitation

• to a General Gerhart [to visit

Israèl.J(5)

listed

(that is, ost Waited state engage seriat, who

in the June,

telephone directory as being attached to the Air force and assigned

to the Vitice of the leputy whiet or staft for fians and Frograns).

According to Davidson,

cernart would preter mat the

invitation be nade according to

the strictest protocol Co avoid am

criticisn and that the ipvication should come

through the United

States Imbassy in

Israely (5)

Davidson advised

he had written a letter

to aur. Selinger

(possibly Shrmel Selinger, Director of the Israeli Defense

Ministry]S)

ia New Vork City on December 1, 195%

• Davidson has read the

letter.

which General Gerhart was to eventnally receive lEron Israel](5)

bencral verhart wac approved ex its contents.

Davidson felt

this was

e right procedure to avoid criticisn/and indicated

could ave the sare lira me dentalind the comercial enact

could still go on because it hadnothing to do with General berhart, y

Davidson also advised that colonel Yariy nad suggested

invitation come through the /United States Embassy in

Israel 2nd that a copy of the

in this regard be

• Gerhart privately. Mr.

formal naturel ot

the proposed invitacione

18-14-94

Declassify ans

GONE IDENTIAL

2-4-98

CLASSIFIED BY 56668 SUD/RSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/ile

(JFK)

SECRET

DocId: 32308225

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the dohn T. Kennedy Asgassination Retoris

Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2T0X Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CON

ATIAL

XRVING DAVIDSON

SECRET

According to Davideon, Salinger Sad reported a letter

or personal note was being directed to

orhart bron Israel

ir the latter stili wanted it oticial Sit woula be done.

Davidson also had talked with a Colonel Moore phonetic)

had told Davidson the

bost way to invite Gerfart was

who

official channels

through

to protect General Gechart.

This documont contoins neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is to e metr of

the FBI and is looned to your agency;

it and its contonio ore not to be

distributed outside your agency.

- 2

BECHISECHEN

A 0 ATAL:

58888%.3

DocId: 32308225

Page 7

---

## Page 8

i Released under "the John F. Refirery AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDEN

UNIRD STATES DEPARTMENT OF J, CICE:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON

25, D. C.

In Reply, Please Refer to :

File No.

De cerber

SECRET

ING DAVIDSON

9, 1959

2-4-98

CLASSIFIEDBY 5668-SWD/5R

(JFK)

On December 8,

who has furnisheu

reliable information in

a well known Washington,

• he go in layed and no i stered.

as an Agent with the United States Justice Department for the

Prerous a caragua sed isragladad seen Colonel Ataren

Israeli Military, Naval and Air Attache, on the same (5)

date concerning

an invitation to a General Gerhart Co visit

Isxael.](S)

(Gerhart is possibly Lieutenant General John E. Gerhart, who

is listed

in the June, 1959, United States Department of Defense

telephone directory as being attached to the Air force and assigned

to the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Prograns)

According to Davidson, Gerhart would prefer that the

invitation be made according to

the strictest protocol to avoid any c

criticism and that the invitation should come through the United

States Embassy in

Israe 1] (5)

Davidson advised

he had written a letter to ali. Selingen

(possibly Shiel Selinger,

• Director of the Israeli Defense Ministry S

in New York City) on December 1, 1959. Davidson had read the

letter, which General Gerhart was to eventually receive Erom Israe1J5)

to General Gerhart who approved o1 its contents.

Davidson felt

Payton an alised that Cores tarind stered

that

the

invitation come through the United States Embassy

Israe find that

a copy of the

given

_ communication

in this regard be

to Gerhart

privately.

Tor. Selinger

being advised of the

Eormal nature g

the proposed invitatien®

11-14-94

ALL INFORATICN COSTATE

METER O CRASSSIFIED

AdAn

WHENE SHOWS

OTAsaWiSE

SECRET

CONFIDINTIAL

Declassify

10085

DocId: 32308225

Page 8

---

## Page 9

(Rereased under the John F. Kennedy Assassihation Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

RENTIAL

ULA CASIOSIN

SECNEN

According

to

Davideos,

ollager

and reposted a letter

personal note was being

• directed

tho latter st4ll

Sortant Free Tomas

but

Davidson also had

18100 MILLIOne

let ta one to mould ba don

done.

had told Davidson the best pay

to invite bertare war

through

(osietal chamole to protect General

Corbart.

"This documant conting neither

recommendations cr conclusions of

the FRI.

It is the pioperty of

the FRI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents

are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONFAIENTAL,

384010015

DocId: 32308225

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC '2107 Hote).

DATES 11-14-2017

CONFIDENT

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JU.. ICE

• FEDERAL BURFAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

SECRET

ENG DAVIDSON

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

Docember

• 5,

1939

2-4.98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SIR/SR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_/,

On December 8, 1959, an informant

who has furnished

rollable infernation in

a bel. saova vassangton,

Do go businessa, and who is reastered,

as on Arent with the United States Justiec

Departmant for the

governments of Nicaragua. and Israchy and seon /Colonel Aharo?

Israeli Military,

Maval and Air Attacher on the sam's

date concerning

an invitation to a feneral Gerhart to visit

Israel. (5)

(Gerhart is possibly Lieutenant General John K. Gerhart, whe

in the June,

1939, United States Department of Defense

telephone directory as being attached to the Air Force and assigned

to the vitice o the deputy chiet or staft for vians and trograns)

According to Dovidson,

verhart would preter at th

invitation be nade

according to

the Strictest protocol

criticisn and that the invitation should come through the United

states embassy in Israel. (5)

Davidson advised

he had written a letter to Mr. Salinger

(possibly Shanel

Selinger,

Director of the

Isracli Defense

Ministry]s)

in New York City) on Decewher 1, 1959. Davidson had read the

letter, which General Gerhart vis to eventually receive Brom Israel,(s)

Davidson felt

cals was tre tigat procedure to avoza,

the sam kind of doals and the comercial aspect

could stril go on because it badmothing to do with beneral berhart. X

Davidson also

advised that Colorel Yarif had suggested

terreat a cool the

invitation come through tho

Enited States Embassy in

given

to Gerhart

privately.

co Sellage

in this regard be

being advised of the

Toral matrag the proposed foritation.

ALL IEFOQMATION

C0E20

MAXIN

13 ENCIRCQFIED

WHERE SHOW:

11-14.94

Classie

4508

PAC/ISR

Declassin

ONDRA

(ER)

SCONFIENTIAI

SECREA

DocId: 32308225

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectiurtet

DATE: 11-14-2017

E1992 141 J50 2107 Hote).

IAL

Ra 10

ERVENS DAVEDECE

SECRET

Mecording to Davidso

olinge san reported a letter

or personal bote was being

directed

it the laster stail vantod[it offsetal ale sould be done.

Sir art Bron terael but

Davidson also bad talkod with a Colonel Moore phonetic)

who

ned toud Davleeon une bost say to invite Corbart uas baroun

biticial channelsto

protect General Gerbart:

This docament contino neither

recommercutions ri Culi long. of

the Til Itisio.

• the Fil and is jeared is your agency:

it ond i's col:

'in is.

ls?.

dead out wea

CONFIDENT

5-N923

DocId: 32308225

Page 11

---

