# docid-32198165

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10270-10006

RECORD_SERIES: LV

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 55-1-14

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NEVIN. CARROL T.

TO:

SAC

TITLE:

DATE:

11/26/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

JFK, INFORMANT, NEG

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

08/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DooId: 32198165

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-209 (Rev. 11-23-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: SAC

FROM

SA

DAT511-26-63.

CARROL T. NEVIN.

LV 5 C

JPSI

SUBJECT:

Dates of Contact

Titles and File #s on

which

a contacted

ASSASSINATION PRESIDINT

JOHN I. KENNEDY

137-64.

ALL INFOCA

MATION CONTAI EA

Purpose and results

of contact

Negative

Positive

LATE 10-30-93 BY 9503 200/KSR

(JEK)

Following receipt of information regarding

the

assisination of

President KENNEDY, Informant was contacted for any information he

,might posess and to alert him to any information coming to his

attention. Informant advised he was shocked at the news and was

sure

that no one in the Rono area had any connection with the shooting.

Informant stated

that EDDIE SCOTT, President of the NAACP in Rerio

was not a militant type person, that he had talked with SCOTT on many

occasions and felt sure that SCOTT would have mentioned anyone in his

organi zation that might be suspect.

Informant was contacted later on 11-22-63 and he promised to reort

any information that came to his attention indicating that the shooting

involved any more than the person arrested in Dallas. Informant stated

thete were no racial extremeists in the Reno area and to his knowledge

Personal Data

CC: ASSASSINATION FRESIDENI KENNEDY:

HW 53025 DocId:32198165 Page 2

Informant certified that he has furnished all information obtained by him

since last contact.

Rating

-SAME

Coverage

55-1

SEARCH WE INDEXED

SERIALLE MILED.

Hollane d

---

