# docid-32328588

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90076-10103

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-12-211-8057

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/20/1965

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HH 54460

16

DocId: 32328588

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date:

SECRE

10/20/65

un text or code) CiA HAS NO OBJACTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

REGISTERED

RELEASI

O CIA INHORMATION

Priority or Method OffREY DOCUMENT: KP 1-16-98

14'

TO:

FROM:

Director, FBI (109-12-211)

SAC, Miami (105-1084) (P)

112-95

Classifed by 508 rep ust

DOMSIT

Decla sily on: 9i98(Jr6)

ON ReBuIrtels

10/14/65 captioned "GENERAL ELIAS WESSIN

Y WESSIN; IS - DR' and "DONALD REID CABRAL; IS - DR".

Enclosed for Bureau are 12 copies LEM re captioned

matter, one copy for transmittal to Legat, Santo Domingo;

info copies furnished New York, WEO and San Juan in view of

their continuing interest in Dominican matters.

MM I-I IS ELISEO GONEL, AntILleS Shipping Corp

Miami, Fla. (by request).

AL ACCOSTADOR CONTAMSE

ASSIFIED

MM T-2 is MM- 761-S.

WERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Miami will attempt to cover activities of

Gen.

WESSIN through interviews with him, as well as through

established sources.

During interviews to date he has

not

furnished any significant info re his activities, although

he remains courteous and receptive and reiterates

his

to cooperate with the u.s. Govt.

- Bureau (Enc. I2) (RM) (AM - SD)

Dend's filed with

desire

copies. up

(2 - 105-144860) Gen. Wessin)

(1

- 105-142648) (Reid":

51

New York (105-73449) (Ene. 1) (InfO) (RM)

WFO (Enc. 1) (info) (RM)

San Juan

(97-18) (Enc. 1) (info) (RM)

109.12.24-8057

Miami (105-1084)

105-10556) (Maximilien)

PEC. 18

10 OCT 22. 11965

105-10612) (Muniz)

Eno:

105-10615) (Nayib Wessin) Ef

105-10614) (Reid)

(1

134-1191 Sub AD

134-379. Sub A)

SECRE

ATTI

ELP: egh

(16)

TERICAN

Disas

Approved:

Per _

Special Agent in Charge

HH

54460

DooId: 32328588

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1084

SECRET

Enclosed LiM sets forth info from ELISEO GOMEZ which

conceals his identity with I symbol During interview he

indicated he

was in the

employ of another U.s. Govt. agency

He admitted having data re Haltian interests and having con-

tacted WESSIN, but would not divulge same without clearing

with the other agency.

Miami has noted in previous correspondence that

WESSIN is closely associated with Cuban exiles MARCOS DIAZ

LANZ and ANTONIO LLANO MONTES, noting further that info de-

veloped in past re these individuals indicates they are

probably associated with WESSIN for mercenary reasons. Be-

cause of these probable intentions, it does not appear these

individuals will provide this Bureau current and pertinent

info re WESSIN's activities.

Other Cubans like GOMEZ who are apparently close

to WESSIN in some instances have contacts with CIA and can

not be expected, since they are receiving CIA pay, to provide

the same data to this Bureau for fear of jeopardizing their

CIA connections.

14)

In this regard it is noted MM-761-S has stated he .

personally knows that numerous Cubans seek and

have CIA con

nections in the Miami area, although in many instances CIA

does not get value received for this coverage.

2(4)

It is probable that ELISEO GOMEZ is the source of

some of the info re WESSIN contained as enclosure in reBu

airtel re WESSIN. Because of his connections with WESSIN

and his expressed desire to cooperate with the Govt., Miami

will endeavor to develope a close relationship with GoMez,

recognizing his primary allegiance will probably remain with

CIA] and a certain duplication

probably will result in ob

taining info from him.

At the same time,

Miami is attenpting to have our

own intormants align themselves with

WESSIN and/or the Cubans

close to him insofar as time permits, noting they have other

assignments relating to the Cuban situation

In Miami.

Interviews of Individuals set forth in the enclosed

LHM were accomplished by SAS EDWARD I. DAHL and EUGENE L. PAYNE.

SEXRET

NW 54460 DooId:32328588 Page 3

---

