# docid-32327956

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10197

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/24/1962

92

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3;4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

v9.1

NW 45799 DocId: 32327956

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

on 7/11/62, MM 693-C furnished the following information

to SA HOMER R. HAUER,

at Miami, Florida:

BURNS had contacted Attorney HARVEY ST. JEAN and requested ST.

JEAN to represent him in connection with this accident in regards

to BURNS giving a déposition in this matter. ST. JEAN reportedly

offered to provide the plaintiff with an affidavit admitting

liability on the part of BURNS; however, this was not satisfactory

with the plaintiff's attorney.

CI said it was his understanding

that BURNS refused to appear for

a deposition and in fact has

not yet been served to so appear.

CI was questioned concerning any knowledge he may have

concerning the subject's connection with the Marlborough House

Apartments.

CI claimed to have no direct information pertaining

to the subject's possible association with this

apartment building;

however,

he said it is rumor that GRANELLO was

3 "promoting" this

deal.

CI explained that he had heard that the subject was in a

position to benefit from this operation if the business had been a

success, which it has not, but since it falled, he believes

GRANELLO did not lose any money on the deal.

rumor that the subject is promoting a similar venture in the

mommot on the a

CI stated it is also

Hollywood Wiltshire Apartment in Hollywood, Florida.

MM 693-C stated the subject would probably have profited

from the building of the Marlborough House during the actual

construction of the apartments, if he did make any money in

connection with this matter at all.

CI stated he is absolutely positive there would be no

written record of the subject's connection with either the Marl-

borough House or the Hollywood wiltshire and that any connection

he might have with either of these buildings would be strictly

"off the record"

COVER PAGE

- D -

NW 45799 DocId: 32327956 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

1955. This particular issue of counterfeit Kingdom of Belgium

bonds over a period of years, had appeared periodically, usually

accompanied by stolen bonds of diversive issues.

The Phoenix Division is currently displayig photographs

of the aforementioned MICHAEL MYERSON to determine if It is identica

with the recent associate of the subject.

The indices of the Miami Divison (MM file 46-499) further

reflect that one MIKE M. MYERSON aka Mike Meyerson, was associated

WITh CHARLES FREED, a well known vendor of gambling equipment in

MM in the past.

The NY Division is currently reviewing the indices of

that office in an endeavor to ascertain any information identifiable

with MICHAEL MYERSON, a recent associate of the subject in Arizona.

on 7/2/62, AUSA DANIEL P. HOLLMAN, SDNY, telephonically

contacted SA HINDES

and requested that consideration beafforded

to an interview with FLORA ANN BILETTO, 52 West Oakdale St.,

Brentwood, LI, NY, a possible victim of statutory rape on the

part of the subject.

Since this activity is reported to have

taken place at the subject's summer residence at Greenwood Lake,

NY, during the Summer of 1959, Mr. HOLIMAN was desirous of

probing the possibility of any White Slave Traffic Act violation.

on 7/19/62, SAS FREDERICK W. KUHLMAN and EUGENE J. HINDES attempted

to interview FLORA ANN BILETTO at 52 West Oakdale St., Brentwood,

LI, NY.

The agents were advised by an unidentified woman, who

refused to disclose her name but stated she was an aunt of FLORA

ANN BILETTO, that the latter was now married and not residing at

the aforementioned address.

This individual refused to disclose

the address and stated that it would have to be ascertained fron

the father of FLORA ANN BILETTO.

A request was made to have FLORA

ANN BILETTO's father get in touch with one of the contacting agents,

but, to date, he has not attempted to contact the

Ny Division.

COVER PAGE

=F=

NW 45799

DocId: 32327956 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

AUSA HOLIMAN was advised on 7/25/62, of what had

transpired in an attempt to interview FLORA ANN BILANTO. Не

stated that in view of her current marital status, it may be

more difficult in attempting to develop the cooperation of her and

her family.

However, he added that if her father was uncooperative,

he could be subpoenaed to appear before the Federal Grand Jury to

furnish her adaress.

The NY Division is currently in the process of attempting

to contact the father of FLORA ANN BILETTO to determine his current

attitude in this matter.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

Contacting Agents

NY I-l

NY 204-c

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

NY T-2

NY 3508-PC

SA WILLIAM DAVID KANE

NY T-3

NY 3661-C

SA JAMES I. MC SHANE

NY T-4

PCI

SAS EUGENE J. HINDES and

ROBERT W. KENNEDY

VY T-

VY 3660-C-TI

SA WILLIAM J. CRUMLEY

VY T-C

VY 3597-C7

NY I-7

NK 1741-CS

MM T-1

PCI

SA ROLAND H. BROYLES

SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

-G -

NW 45799 DocId: 32327956 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-1108

INFORMANIS cont 'a

Identity of Source

MM T-2

PCI

LEADS:

MIAMI

Contacting Agents

SA WILLIAM E. DOWNG

OTHER 4

At Boca Raton, Florida

Will endeavor to locate and interview PEGGY CHRISTY

PH), Boca Raton Hotel and Club,

It may be

with a former girl friend of the subject at Greenwood Lake, NY.

At Miami Beach, Florida

Will consider an attempt to review any microfilm records

of the Mercantile National Bank,

Miami Beach, Fla., to determine

If any of the checks drawn on the account of the Marlborough House.

apparently for the subject, were endorsed by him.

NEWARK

At Newark, NJ

Will ascertain the registrants for the following license

numbers and check NK indices regarding

the registrants:

PJS4

ATA965

GAD922

FWI123

ADV976

ACN319

EUH173

FHC144

COVER PAGE

- H -

: "''

NW 45799

DocId: 32327956 Page 5

---

