# docid-32337612

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10378

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-20297-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/22/1955

3

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LET

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32337612 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Tick

- Mr. Stacey

81498

5668 sco/Gee.

0(6)

1.:

SAC, New York

(orig. and 2) SECREQ

March 22, 1955

Director, FBI

*44,195

Clas

5668540/0c2

TSET, DE LA VAI

wast

INTERNAL SECURITY

(Sufi10105-32132)K3)

(New York file 105-6004)S)

[RICHEL PARISOT DE LA VALITIES)

INTERNAL, SECURITY

(Bufile 105-202921944

(New York r1le/105-5422Jsw

NATION CONTIC

HEREIN IS

DATE Le?

211326

A review of the above cases at the Bureau reflects that

investigationgas initiated on the possibility that are son

lay be a Soviet agents- This possiblulty arosa go a

à source who is considered reliable advised,

I'Last February and March a Soviet agent called"Ghapiro'

whose real

the United Nationsas teletypistst»It has been ascertained beyonc

viet arents.

They are working

to bt sent with the United Nation fine United States at Lake

Suecess IS) (The

source of this information has been recontacted on

several

occasions in an effort to secure moro complete data.

was last contacted in February, 1955, at which time.

he advised he

not now and will not in the

future be in a position to furnish

ny additional information.kskt was assumed that the women wer

mployed by the UN in Genev

at the. time. they

were recruited and

were later transferred to the United Stetes.

The only female who

fitted into this category during the pertinent period was Renee

Noireau now Mrs. Michel Partsot De La Valette. (S)

Investigation has lailed to establish that eithér of the

subjects has'' engaged in pro-soviet or pro-Comminist activities.

They have, on the contrary, been described as strongly anti-

Commnist

in thought and speach. The next logical step in these

113230)

VTKS: blo:nff

(6)

2a da bit

F-29

2019

ESBE NOTE PAGE TWO NO 3 CEL

CO

530297700

NOT

RECORDED

pUPLICATE

MAR 24 1300

MABED

29 MAR 2 3 1955

NW

457522

d: 32337612

Page 2

ORIGINAL FILET

---

## Page 3

CECREL

investigations would be to interview the subjects. However, in

view of the lack of a sound allegation on which to base an inter-

vio and the fact that the subjects are employers he Bureau

does not desire the subjects to be interviewed.

Unless you have information which mould dictate otherwise,

you are authorized to place these cases in a closed status.

Confidential Bureau sourcel

furnished the data

of more complete data.

• advised liaison that he is

now "out of business."

It does not appear that any clarification

will be forthcoming from

the original source. The casesagainst the

subjects are based on conjecture and it therefore does not appear

desirable to continue these investigations.

was contacted

in connection with the information furnished by him in March, 1950,

and on 3-3-55.

SECRET

NW 45752 DocId: 32337612

Page 3

OTHER 4

---

