# docid-32309649

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10300-10015

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-95357-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

04/10/1961

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

MR, ASSOC, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 45937

DocId: 32309649

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STAT

Merc. wow

T

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

APR 1 0 1961

55/-00

FRI

_SAC, MIAMI (66-2652)

SUBJECT

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE,

tis: 99-415216

TPU

^ST

Re Miami tel

to the Bureau dated 3/30/61.

Enclosed are 11 copies of a Letterhead Memorandum

captioned as above:

The sources utilized in the enclosed

memorandum are MM T-1,

who is MANUEL RAY RIVERO, 1250 West

62nd Street,

Hialeah, Florida, and MM T-2, who is JUAN

MACHADO, Miami, Florida

Both sources have been protected

at their

own request.

It is desired to point out that PSI JUAN MACHADO

(protect), who formerly maintained close contact with the

communist party activities in certain parts of Cuba,

advised on 4/3/61,

that RAY at no time was considered by

members of the communist party as being a member of_ that

organization but he was somewhat respected by members of

the

communist

of certain public utilities in Cubạ..

party inasmuch as he advocated the nationalization

MACHADO stated. RAY

justifled_his_views_concerning.

the

nationalization of

public utilities in

Cuba because of the poor service

rendered by

the

telephone company and the electric- power

company, both of which were owned by United States interests

RAY pointed out, according to the source, that the telephones

company at times delayed three years before maksngr.rG

installation of a telephone and that the electeis power

8.000

company continued to say it could not render more adequate

service,

(wider distribution of power lines because

low rates imposed upon

it by the Cuban Government).

do

10N

ON AND/0%

It is also desired to point out to the Bureau

CHAINDBA

JOSE JOAQUIN MIRO CARDONA advised the Miami Office

son 3/27/61, he describes RAY as being "radical but no

CIA HAS NO 03

OGADIENT.

¿communist"

SiO

advised on 4/3/61, that

is the onty member of the Revolutionary Council of MIRO

CARDONA, who has the reputation, who would be

05-7

5-98-5255-3

Bureau (Encl. 11) (RM)

REC: 96

- New York (Encl.

1) (Info) (RM)

EX-139

25 APR S$L 1961

1 APhia 7996, 01ty

(Encl.

1) (Info (RM) «

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

.BEB Y

EE REVERSE.

WGF: bam, 210

421/091/G-2/

(6)-

Date

by rophag sie foiio.

NAY.

for. copy

info

14461

COPI AND COPY OF ENCT

OTHER 4

HW

45937 DocId: 32309649

Page 2

---

