# docid-32164265

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10155-10133

RECORD_SERIES:

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

44-563-145

Released under the John

• kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DE

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

11/03/1998

STATUS

Redact

SEE FBI 44-24016-890 P.C.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32164265

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DE 44-003

Di 44-1639

JOSEPH DECKER

HARRISON

925 South

State

Street

Ann

Ar bor

Michigan

HARRISON was interviewed on December 19, 1963, at Ann Arbor,

Michigan,

23

he had sent a $5 money order to JACK I. RUBY.

DE 283-S (former), who has furnished reliable information in

the past, has

advised that JOSEPH HARRISON was a Communist Party (CP)

member in Detroit during May, 1950.

MC. JUNE SMITH, Ann Arbor, Michigan, who has furnished.

reliable

information in the past, described HARRISON In December,

1951, 25

being a Commist.

DE 397-S (former), and DE 489-S (former), both of

furnisted reliable intormation in the past, both savised In Januaryy

1954, that HARRISON was no longer trusted by CP members in Ann Arbor,

Michigan, and that he

was avoided by such persons.

They advised that

HARRISON

was suspected of being an informant for the FBI.

In December, 1960, HARRISON traveled to Cuba with a

Christmas

tour sponsored by the Fair Play for Cuba Committee:

In JUly, 1954, TOM HARRISON, brother of JOSEPH HARRISON,

reported to the Ann Arbor Police Department that JOSEPH HARRISON was

a mental

case and was going to commit suicide.

The police officers,

when investigating this report, found JOSEPH HARRISON in front of

his home in a dazed

and confused condition with his hands full of

aspirins.

The police officers reported that JOSEPH HARRISON was in

no condition to be out on the street. JOSEPH HARRISON was confined

for investigation of a mental disorder and a petition was filed in

Probate Court. The

police record noted that JOSEPH HARRISON had the

idea that he wanted to hurt someone or take his own life.

TOM

HARRISON reported that JOSEPH HARRISON had been in a Veterans

Hospital previously for similar difficulties.

No subversive activity on the part of JOSEPH HARRISON has

been reported since 1954. (Bufile 100-381806; DEfile 100-1826].)]

COVER PAGE

D

LARCHED

563-

145

SERIALIZED

INDEXED

FILED

NW 53025 DooId: 32164265 Page 2

---

