# docid-32350877

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10075-10136

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John.

Kennedy

rasassinacion- Récorde

Collection Act of. 1992

144. USC 2107 Notel:

Cased NI 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM

:UMWAVE

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE : JMWAVE CABLE RE POSSIBLE ATTEMPT TO CENSURE U.S. /CUBA

POLICY THROUGH THE ( (ILLEGIBLE)).

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS : CUBA

JMWAVE CABLE

CUBA RELATIONS

URIARTE, SALVIO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/10/95

COMMENTS: JEK17: F2: 1995.07.10.18:55:34:120028

[RI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10075-10136

I 53199 DocId: 32350877 Page 1

---

## Page 2

28/3

CLASS DIED MESSACE

SEGRET

F ROM

DIRECTOR

UMNA VE

(COPY ISSUCO TO IW AT 2125 21 NOV 8P)

cas 6.

DORS ADOR, CA L, CA/PCO, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI/OPS,

ci/ve 2,

FL, FI/DIE/INT, IN, RI/AN, 00/1,

so/er 2, AD/NE

TOCS

NOV 22 01232 63 11 65091

SE,GRE F 2123552

PRIORITY DIR CITE WAVE 7997

NEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: BINAURAL FROM ALBERTO JOFFRE CAUSIDO (UDCL/,

DO NOT USE JOFFRE TRUE NAME, FROM SALVIO URIARTE OF CE. RIO:

INDEX. FILED 212355Z REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE ATTEMPT TO CENSURE U.S./CUBA POLICY THROUGH THE TAPA

DO1: 21 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (21 NOV 63) UFS VIRO

SOURCE:: A RELIABLE WESTERN OBSERVER WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS IN

LATIN AMERICAN SPORTING CIRCLES, THE INFORMATION IS FROM A CUBAN

JOURNALIST IN EXILE FROI: SALVIO URIARTE, MEMBER OF CORPORACIONES

ECONOMICAS.

D2 CONNENT:

NO DISBEMINARON SING AUTACHED

TO PORTION OR THIA CADLE MAS CORN

MADE OUTSIDE ME AGENCY PENDING

FELEASE SY THE ACTION UNIT.

TOCS

PALOGOENE

ROUTING

PRIOREH

RELEASING 19O

DATE DISTRIDUTEU

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

10814

HT 53199

DheId: 32350877 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LELEGRAMEINFORMATION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ELASSILICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROIS

CONFIDENTIAL

COUSIN:

AN E

ДЕРОДЯ NO.

-TOCS

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

REFERENGES

FIELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUATED IMPORMATION SOURCE

CRADINGS ARE DEMIMITIVE: APPRAISAL DE CONTENT IS TESTATIVE

SOURCE

1 AS OF 2 NOVEMBER 1963, JOSE IGNACIO: "POPIN" RIVERO HAD FORNICO

A NEW ORGANIZATION BASED ON THE TRIBUTE GIVEN HIM AT MIAMI'S SAY AUNI

PARK ON 17 NOVEMBER: IT IS CALLED FRENTE CIVICA NACIONAL (FON,

CIVIC NATIONAL FRONT).

2. CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH RIVERO IN THE FON ARE TULIO DIAZ

RIVERA, EX-PRESIDENT OF THE CORPORACIONES CCONON CAS (GE) AND

AURELIO GARCIA DULZAIDES, ONNER OF REX PRESS AND PRESIDENT OF

COLEGIO OL PUBLICATARIOS.

3. THESE MEN ARE ATTEMPTING TO GET SUPPORT FOR A

RESOLUTION TO PRESENT TO THE INTER AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION.

CLASSIFIGATION - UISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

ERNESS IS NAVIE

LINFORMATION REPORTE

1H 53199

DocId: 32350877 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSITICATICI - DISSEMAMATION CONTRONS

CONTIDENTIAL

TDCS

WHICH IS HOLDING A CONFERENCE AT MIAMI BEACH, CENSURING THE

US GOVERNMENT ON FREEDOM OF THE PRESS, ALLEGEDLY SOO BEIN

TAL SEMINO A RECENT REQUIREMENT DY LOCAL PADIO STATION 7A

CUBAN EXILES TAPE THEIR RADIO PROGRAMS IN ARVANCE OF BROADCAST

4. FIELD COMMENT: AMIE ABOUT 3 WECKS AGO, LSIABLISHIO A

REQUIPEMENT THAT GUOAN EXILES TARE TGIR PROGRAMS IN AOVANCE

IS NO: KNOWN TO WIAT EXTENT OTHER MIAMI DIANTONO NAVE INSTEA

THIS REQUIREMENT; AMIE IS CONSIOERED THE MOST IMPORTANI MIAMI

STATION BROAOCASTING TO AN AUDIENCE IN CUBA.

5. DIAZ MADE THIS PROPOSAL TO THE CO AM ITS MEETING ON 19

NOVEMBER AND RESIGNED WHEN IT FAILEO TO CARRY. IT IS CAPCOTCO,

TOMSVER, THAT THE FON WILL BEND EVERY EFFORT TO GET THE MOTION

TO THE FLOOR OF THE JAPA CONFERENCE BEFORE T WINDS UP ITS GUSTI

ON 22 NOVEMSER AND IF SUCCESOUL, WILL USE THIS AS A WEDGE TOS

GENERAL CONDEMNATION OF CURRENT US POLICY ON CUBA.

6. FIELD DISSEM; MIAMI REP STATE FBI

OF MESCABI

TUB CLON

HH7 53199

DocId: 32350877

Page 4

---

