# docid-32289001

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10200-10277

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-498

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/12/1968

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CM, MEXICAN GOVERNMENT, COOP

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/09/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289001

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES, OVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO (92-17) (P)

SUBJECT:

CARLOS MARCELLO

A-R

DATE:

6-12-68

Important contacts in the Mexican Government have

expressed concern and curiosity about locally published

accounts of Subject's prosecution reportedly pending in

Laredo, Texas.

The Mexican Immigration Inspection Service has a

file on the Subject, in part based on information furnished

by this Office in the past, and has a current stop to pre-

vent Subject's entry into Mexico as an undesirable.

Because of Subject's reported presence along the

border, they were fearful that Subject may attempt to

enter

Mexico. In addition,

they were curious as to why Subject

was being prosecuted

in Laredo for a crime committed in

New Orleans.

As a matter of liaison and cooperation, it is felt

that Mexico City should be in a position to answer Mexican

inquiries concerning this matter.

LEADS

SAN ANTONIO DIVISION

At Laredo, Texas

of the results of prosecution and if any indication

Will follow prosecution and advise Levat, Mexion, 34

Subject crossed into Mexico during his stay in Laredo.

Bureau

leeded

(1 - Liaison Section) REC-105

12 - New Orleans.

92-36)

(2 - San Antonio)

1 - Mexico City

RSC : wr

to

NO

92-0073-

6 JUN Z7 1968

(8)

2c05

gees to

SAI

0-7

FOREIGN

6118168

PEK:

SUMit 8.$98Eings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll' Savings Plan

DocId: 32289001 Page 2

---

