# docid-32346754

## Page 1

Date: 12/08/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10063-10202

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : FBI,

SENTINELLA, ALAN

: REPORT RE COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

DATE: 01/23/1968

SUBJECTS

: SCLC

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

PAPER

POSTPONED IN FULL

07/13/93

COMMENTS : IN FULL -22/16/94; ARB DENTED IN PUEZ 3/14/97.

: FBI DENIED

[R]

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10063-10202

HN 50529

DooId: 32346754

Page

---

## Page 2

FÖ-20* (ev. 3-3-58)

DBC 4.3658

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Dates

SA ALAN

Janusry

•Flaid Offico Flle & 100-5718

SECRET

I - ILIFE: MIE, RECRON !,

8T. NC FERSON,

GEORGLA

- OSI, ROBINS AIR FORCE EASE,

• GEORGIA

(R*)

CHARLESTON, SOURE CARCLIA (RI)

Go

SENCINFIILA

Offices

ATLANTA

25g

1968

Bureau Filo Is 100-439784

Tilles

COLNUNIST INFILTRATIOY OF SOUTHERN

CERISTIAN INADERSHIP CONFERACE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Synopsis:

Conference

Istionel Headqusrters, Southern Cristian Leaderalp

(SCIC)

86111 1009501

334 Aubura Avenue, N. Eo,

Atlanta, Ca.

0111093

malatained in Chicago, Illirois, New

Tors, Noy tori, and representatives in Grenad. Mi3a.; Los

Angeles, Celll.; Louisville, Kombucky, and Fashington, D. C.

RESTEd MARTIN LITHER KING, Mo, continuas to 'serve 3s

Frasident, SOLC. Identity of officera, Executive Board and

stalt ratars, and field representatives set lert.

Charges. 1n

paraonel eat farth.

Financial. status, principal

BUNTEС3

incoug, sjor projects of scle, inciuling Hashingtor

SpriTE Frojast (ISP) aed position ra

Viet Nan Far set forth.

STANLEY LIVISOR SId ZIRRY NACTEL aCtivA In SCIC 111020121

ritters and Raverend Kne Continues to be in contect rith

CAROL HOOTER manged arrangerents for &Ci0g 10t

anniversary Corvaution add recently assigned to rost ritt

Southers Coristten Lestership Tondation (SCh), Catcago.

RANDOLPHT. SICKIRIN, LAMBEICE D.

CORD? T. VITIES, and YAChEn Bary farticipated

11 D0XC 4 15

INVISOr,

STUDIOS. FAREY BELLENIS has assistod in SCIC barelite.

other SCIC officers

Jamary 1958 regarding lorchroning YS?.

ECSEA WILLIAMS COR

tiras as. Direstor of Voter Registration and Follsinal Education.

Past CP connections and's aiIiliation of BaLAFONIE,

BEYMI, BLACKHELL, BOOTER, LEVISOS, REDDICK, TRIA,

WASHNEL,

SHU WILLIAYS SEE

forth..

08662

SATRAY

But "1

Excludad Fren

Antonatio

100-300-040

Denngreding and Declassification

HH

50529

DocId: 32346754 Page 2

---

## Page 3

On lay 9, 1968, a3ù May 10, 1968, raspectively,

CHARLES WRIGHT and

DAVIS were contacted by Special

Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ai which

time they identified themselves as organizers for the

Florida Black Front.

On Hay 9, 1968, MrS. JULIA WALKER BROWN, Owner,

Walker Conssrcial College, a small private Negro institution

teaching mainly typing and

shorthand, 1832 North Myrtle

Avenue, advised she had been approached by CHARLES WRIGHT

who identifled himsolf as Executive Secretary for the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). Mr.

WRIGhT was desirous of renting the auditorium at her

school.

she asted if there was any possibility there

could be violence and he explained to her that his group

was the same group that had previously been represented

by Doctor NARTIN LUTHER KING and therefore she could be

assured that his organization would not associate itself

with anything connected with violence. Mrs. BROWN

said CHARLES WRIGHT and MOSES DAVIS made a

deposit of

$35 on May 8, 1968, for rental of this auditorium. The

total rental

fee quoted

was $75.

On May 14, 1968, Source One furnished the.

following information regarding the meeting held

Friday, May 10, 1968, between the hours of 8 P.k. and

11:30 P.k., which was attended by less than 50 people:

Doctor J. DENIS JACKSON, Cultural Psychiatrist

of Atlanta, Georgia, represented himself as the publisher

of "Cultural Institute Press", Post Office Box 27157,

Atlanta, Georgia, telephone 373-8294. Doctor JACKSON

talked on Negro

superiority over the

white man, not as

a theory but as a fact. He reported that for every

white genius born

there are at least 1000 Negro geniuses

born.

Had these 1000 black geniuses been given an

opportunity to develop their wits, this country would have

been much

better off than it is today. That the Negroes

would have beer superior and are in fact superior.

That

in spite of this in this little short span of time and

the oppression placed on the Negro by the white man, the

Negroes have exceeded him in all areas of competition,

and all. areas of culture, sports, agriculture, enter-

tainment, and in many cases education.

_7-

HH

50529 DocId: 32346754 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Date: 12/08/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY. INFORMATION

AGENCY :

'CIA

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

104-10063-10202

JFK '

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : FBI, SENTINELLA, ALAN

TO :

TITLE : REPORT RE COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

DATE : 01/23/1968

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : SCLC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN EULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/13/93

COMMENTS: JEK10 : F2: 1993.07.13.15:25:17:900520 : FBI DENIED

IN FULL - 2/16/94; ARRB DENIED IN FULL 3/14/97.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10063-10202

HH 50529

DocId: 32346754. Page 4

---

## Page 5

F6-204 (ter, 3-3-59)

DBC 43658

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy so:

1 - 111TH MIC, RECTONY, FE. MC FIERSON,

GEORGIA (RA)

1

• OSI, ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE,

(RM)

• HIS, CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA (RU)

Report ofs

Dates

SE ALAN G. SANTINELI

Ofices

• ATLANTA

Janaary 25, 1968

•Fleid Offico File # 100-5718

Bupeau Filo #s 100-138794

Tidle:

COMMUMIST INTILTRATION OF SOITEERE

CHAISTIAN LEADERSHIP CORFERINCE

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Synopsis:

Istional Headquarters,

Confsrence

(CIC) still locater

Southern Christian Lendership

334 Aubra Avenue, N. E.,

Atlanta, Ga.

fork, Ney TorE,

Orfices maintainod 1a Chicago, Illizois, New

Angeles,

Caiit.;

Revarend MARTIN LUTHER XING, SR.,

soulstilla,dentucky; and Yashington, D.C.

continues to'serve 5s

President,

Executive

SOLC. Identity of officers, Executive Board and

Start

rawers, and field representatives set forth.

Charges 1n preonel not forth.

BOUrGOS Of

Financial status, principal

mayor projects of soil,

including Hashingtor

Spring Frojast (PSP) and position ra

Viet

dan far sot forth.

STANLEY LEVISON GId HARRT WACKTEL SOTIVA In SCIO financIal

eithers and Raverend Kix continuas to be in wontact rich

TheN. CAROL MOUFER mAnnged arrangennts for SClog 10th

Anniversary Correution add recently asigned to rork ritt

Southern Coristian Laadership Fondation (SCh), Chleago.

INVISON,

CORDE T. VIVIAM, NO TACHEL have participated

IsrenCes. FARTY BELAFOISE mas assIstod is SCIC bereiits.

INVISON conferred 1315 Ravorand KING End otber SCIC ofiicers

January 1958 regarding forthconing 7se.

HOSE. WILLIAMS CON

thens a5 Dirastor of Voter Registration and Polltical Edusation,

Scio. Past CP connections and/or affiliation of BaLAFONIE,

SUO WILLIAS SEE

BLACKHELL, ROOTER, IDYISDE, REDDICK, PETIAN,.

WACHEL,

forth.

08662

HH 50529 DocId:32346754 Page 5

SSCRAT

Fut

Fasciudad

Automatic

100-300-040

DoanETendiss+r1 174732248185409

---

## Page 6

On May 9, 1968, 83d May 10, 1968, respectively;

CHARLES WRIGHT and

MOSES DAVIS were contacted by Special

Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation at which

time they identified themselves as organizers for the

Florida Black Front.

On May 9, 1968, MIS. JULIA WALKER BROWN, OwneI,

Walker Consercial College, a small private Negro Institution

teaching mainly typing and shorthand, 1832 North Myrtle

Avenue, advised she had been approached by CHARLES WRIGHT

who identifled himself as Executive Secretary for the

Southers Christian Leadership Conference (SCIC). Mr.

WRIGHT was desirous of renting the auditorium at her

school.

could be violence and he explained to her that his group

was the same group that had previoualy been represented

by Doctor MARTIN LUTHER KING and therefore she could bo

assured that his organization would not associate itself

with anything connected with violence.

rs. BROWN

said CHARLES WRIGHT and NOSES DAVIS made a deposit of

$35 on May 8, 1968, for rental of this auditorium. The

total rental fee quoted was $75.

On May 14, 1968, Source One furnished the.

following Information regarding the meeting held

Friday, May 10, 1968, between the hours of 8 P.M. and

11:30 P.l., which was attended by less than 50 people:

Doctor J. DENIS JACKSON, Cultural Paychlatrist

Atlanta, Georgia, telephone 373-8294. Doctor JACKSON

talked on Negro

superiority over the white man, not as

a theory but as a fact. He reported that for every

white genius born there are at least 1000 Negro geniuses

Had these 1000 black geniuses been given an

opportunity to develop their wits, this country would have

been much better off than it is today. That the Negroes

would have been superior and are in fact superior. That

in spite of this in this little short span of time and

the oppression placed on the Negro by the white man, the

Negroes have exceeded him in all areas of competition,

and all. areas of culture, sports,

agriculture, enter-

tainment, and in many cases education.

- 7-

HH 50529 DocId:32346754 Page 6

---

