# docid-32206591

## Page 1

Date: 08/16/93

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

AGENCY

: NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-10002-10144

RECORDS SERIES

WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

:FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: 00/00/64

4

SUBJECTS :

DINKIN, EUGENE

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT

DATE OF LAST

: 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

PP. 2-3,

5, 8.

CD #788

-------

eaccarraraaarrraarrerrreee

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50529

DocId: 32206591

Page 1

---

## Page 2

788

Re: EUGENE B. DINKIN

Captain Cowen also related his conversation to a girl friend

named Beth Cox.

Her present address, according to colonel

Adams, 18 Lisa Beth Cox, 616 west 116th Street, New York 27,

New York.

Colonel Adams statod that fugene B. Dinkin waB the

subject of a closed Investigation by the 01fico of the

He advised further that according to

tlong Zone, Surope at Metz, France, on February 18, 1964,

local Army records

PiC Bugene B. Dinkin, RA 16710292, was reassigned to Walter

Reed Hospital, Washington, D.C., an a patient on December 3,

1963 and was ordered to proceed to that destination on or

about December 1, 1983.

Lloutenant Colonel John J. Ward, Rogistrar's

O1f1ce, Malter Rood Arny Hospital, Washington, D.C., made

available modical Illes pertaining to Eugene B. Dinkin on

MAICh 2u, 1964.

A revlew of the narrative sunmary in this

u11e reflocta the tolloting diagnosis made of Dinkin's

"Schizophrento roastlos, paranoid typo, chronic,

moderate, manifested by Inappropriate behavior

and ideation, Intellectualization, grandiosity,

social Isolatlon, and delusions of persecution,

primarily by the Army; stress, mininal, routine

overseas nilitary duty, prodisposition, mild

11folong history of somewhat withdrawn behavior,

w1th poor soolal interaction; Impairment 1or

further military service, marked, extremaly poor

motivation for continuing service; Impairment

or BoolaL and industrial adjustment, slight,

some residual alooiness, presently in remiasion."

:

statis

---

## Page 3

220S4

-.?.

Re: EUGENE B. DINKIN.

On Apr1l 1, 1964, MT. Eugene B. Dinkin, 534 West

Oakdale, Chicago, Ill1no1s, advised Agents of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation that he had been recently discharged

Iron the United States Army after having been in detention

for four nontha thilo undergo1ng.paychlatt1c.touts.

Dinkin advisod that while stationed in Europo ulth

tho Unitod States Army In 1963, he had begun a review o1

several newspapers including the "Starg and Stripes" as an

exercise 1n

"psychological sots". He explained that he had

taken courses in psychology at college and was extremely

interested in this subject matter. He advised that

"psychological seta" vas a tern referring to a serles of

ovents, articles, et cetera which, when coupled together,

set up or induce a certain frame of mind on the part of

a person being exposed to this serles. He stated that

this nothod of implanting an 1dea was much in use by the

"Madison Avenue" advertising people who attempted to

Influence one who was exposed to these "psychological

sets" to "buy" the product being advertised, whather this

product vas physical or an 1dea.

Dinkin statod that while so reviewing the news-

papors for "psychologloal sots", he discovered that "Stars

and Stripes", as well as certain untdentifled Hearst nows-

papers, vore carrying a series of "paychological sots"

which ho believed were deliberately maneuvered to sot up

a gubconscious bellef. on the part of one reading these

papers to the effect that President John F. Kennedy was

"goft on connin" or. "perhaps a comiunist sympathizer".

Further study of these neuspapers and the "paychological

sots" contained therein nade it evident to Mr. Dinkln

that a conspiracy was

In the making by the "nilitary" of

the United States, perhaps combined with an "ultra-right

econonie group", to make the people of the United states

belteve that President Kennody was, in fact, a communist

sympathizer and further, that this same

group planned to

-

!!!:

- 3 -

---

## Page 4

1141431

…'"'

RO: BUGENS B. DINKIN

should not spend 32 per cent of its income for materials

of war, part of which would be iinanced by any onforced

purchases made by him. He stated that he had been outspoken

in his views concerning these bond purchases, and that he

and others who felt that the compulsory purchase of bonds

was as infringement on their o1u1l rights, had been donted.

"passes" as a result of thalr stand.

As a result of his opposition to the bond purchases,

according to Dinkin, he was renoved fron his position in the

code section and transterted to an Army Depot at dotz,

France.

On October 25, 1963, Dinkin went to the United

States Embassy at Luxembourg where, he stated, he attempted

Ior several hours to see a r. Cunningham, the Charge d'Affaires

at the Embassy.

He stated that he sent word to Mr. Cunningham

that he had information concorning a plot to assassinate

President kennody, and at one point spoke to Mr. Cunninghan

by phone.

He said that Cunninghan refused to see him in

person or to review the newspapers and research papers which

Dinkin sald were evidence proving his theory of the impending

assassination.

Dinkin advised that he spent approximately

two hours with the United States Marine Corps guard at the

Luxembourg Embassy and had generally set forth his theories

to this Individual, those name he did not

Following this inoident, Dinkin was notified by

his superiors that he vas to undergo psychiatric evaluation

on November 5; 1983. Due to thie pending development,

Dinkin sald ho went

absent without leave to Geneva, switzer-

land where he attempted to present his theory to the editor

of the "Genova Diplomat", a sowspaper publiahed in cenova,

Sultzerland. In addition to this saltor, Dinkin spoke to

Ir. Dewhirst, a "Newsweek" reporter based at Geneva,

Dowhirst

would not listen to Dinkin's theorles.

While In Switzerland,

Dinkin attempted to contact officials of 'Time-bile" publica-

tions and succooded in speaking to the socrotary, name unknown,

of thls organization 1n zurich.

According to Dinkin, all of

• 5 -

---

## Page 5

:.:"

Re: EUGENE B. DINKIN.

and notes were missing and presumed that the individual

mentioned above had taken them. He never received any

receipt for his papers.

Hs. Dinkin advisod that he had undergone numerous

psychlatrio tests at walter Reed Army Hospital In Washington,

D.C.

He stated that he nas awaro

that the Army psychiatrist

had declared him to be "psychotic" and a "paranotie". He

gald that several of the tests given him were famillar to

him fron his studies in psychology it the University of

Chicago.

Because of his familiarity with these tests, and

his background knowlodge as to what the test answers should

be, he belleved it impossible that the results of these

tests could have shown hin to be "psychotic" and "paranotic".

He stated that 11 he had desired, he could have "faked" the

answers to prove he was sane even if he were, in ract,

mentally disturbed.

hr. Dinkin stated ha believed that

the psychiatrio evaluation given hin by the Army psychiatrist

was, In fact, an attempt on their part to cover up the

mIlitary plot which he had attempted to expose.

Dinkin advised that during his detention at Halter

Reed Aruy Hospital, arrangements had been made through hig

family for him to

be given s psychiatric test by a privato

psychiatrist chosen by his fanily. He stated when these

arrangements were finally made, he had declined the

services of this private physician. Dinkin explained that

ho had roached a point where his only dostro was to be

released fron custody and discharged fron the Army,

He

stated that in order to do this, ho had felt it necessary

to "go along" with the oxanining Army psychiatrist and

pretend that he had, In fact, been suffering from delusion:

but was son cured.

Ho was afrald that should an outside

psychiatrist examine him and bo told by Dinkin the facts

as set forth herein, that this psychiatrist would probably

bolleve Dinkin to be mentally disturbed, and this would result

in further detention for Dinkin. HI. Dinkin stated that

de..

- 8∞

50500°

ĐeTHI:92206591

---

