# docid-32306303

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10289-10433

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-41-64

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, RH

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/22/1954

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: CB, OBSCENE, PHOTOS, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/23/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32306303

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC-2107 Mate).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EVELYN WRIGHT previously mentioned in this report

has not been known to frequent the Richmond area since arrested

by the Richmond Police Department in February, 1954.

Criminal Informant RH 51-6-C advised that a group -

of free lance prostitutes continue to frequent the White Tower

Restaurant, Third and Grace Streets, Richmond, Virginia, and

he has recently noticed that many of them appear to be using

narcotics.

va

at 2222 West Grace Street. An examination of some of these goods

has determined that some of the obscene photographs are of

JUANIIA DALE PHILLIPS, Who is identical to an individual appear-

ing in photographs submitted by the Dallas Office. Further

information on at least one other photograph of obscene nature

indicated that perhaps they were produced at Fort Bragg, North

Carolina.

RUTH MONA THOMPSON, a PCI of the Richmond Office,

continues to operate as a prostitute at 645A West Broad Street,

Richmond, Virginia.

MARTHA, THOMAS, ReCOYLE a known madam of the Rich-

mond area for a long time, was previously reported to have been

working behind the stéamcounter of the Hot Shoppe Cafeteria,

Richmond, Virginia.

Recent checks have noted that THOMAS, nee COYLE,

has not been observed working at the Hot Shoppe Cafeteria for.

sometime.

Present whereabouts or activities have not been

determined.

Captain DAN DULING, Vice Squad, Richmond Police Depart-

• ment advised there has been no material change in the condition

and status of the numerous Negro Clubs operating on Second

Street in the vicinity of Marshall and Clay Streets.

-123-

DocId: 32306303 Page 2

---

