# docid-32319667

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10371-10198

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-A12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BAUMGARDNER

TO: SULLIVAN

TITLE:

DATE: 02/26/1965

'PAGES:

205

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, SECRET SERVICE

DISSEMINATION POLICY FOLDER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, LET, SUMMARY, A/T, MANUAL, AGREEMENT, DRAFT

v9.1

DocId: 32319667

90

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 41-14-2017

• 502503€

Er:132v22

Bland

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

SECRED

fit fit gas tras

P222222

Ruching

" ETARIZAL

5. C. Sullivan

6430-66

To do Bacchan

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

$211,326.

BAT SUI COMUCANIZALTE OF PURERS RICO

Crasshed n

Declassity on: OA0i7

85

soncordun Drandgan to Sallivan G94-6d poistos cut vinca

busonu firet crasted lis procedure fos the Security Indes (51) 25

was coogained thore would be cubjects involvod in espionago thou

it would not bo desirable to approhond in an energency.

proctor indicated that he did not rocall any such undorstanding.

SIC Lotter (28(C), norion 1951,

dated larch 3, 1S51,

polzeed

cut sont espionage subjects ano maintainod in tho Brocial Racison

of the E3 waca copachension in the event o3 an cuorgency would

contry chances of penetration and control of an operating capis acco

pornilol or would destroy knowa chances of poscuration sud control.

c a "slocoes" parallal.

Thin SAC Lotter rolating to the Spacial

coction of the 38 15 attached fos informaidor.

FERLINOLE ZCICTONCOS

so espionago subjects appear in paragraph 3, page i, asd too last

paragraph as page S.

tie She lester points out tho necesalty for

protochang our doublo arente, touces of salormaticn and intcuanass (el

1'. Tolas has exprosced tho opinion that cil 83 subjecis

chould bo impacted to the Scores service, and the Direater bas

5g006.

26 as bolleved the Director vould vanê to know sono of tho

details on tho probions no face. Est forth below are sono specialo

unampios drou the 16 cases sou containod in. tho Repionage Bocoicl

Coction of tao 85, unich Ravo nos you been given Seeros Sorvicole)A

diasinotion mst bo drama botreon limited discomination aù s nigh

Imes einictly for the purposo of information on for tha handling

of a finited lond by another agency and dincomination to tho secros

service uhero to do not control thol: Eurthor dissonination to ottes

CoveransLa

agenciea of local authoritios.

Smathy has boon identalied by ow high-lovo. pore-

Crach intolligence

28 & Crech illegal agoat.

Sio has Deon

In the U.D. cince July, 1959,

and is curently employed ly the(5)

Iw act

(0)

SECRED

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SCD./S0

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (0)/62

(75C): 5/17/99

DocId: 32319667 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kong 35235502

do Sullivan

AMNEX 02 FRESSLINE IN TED U.S.

' ADIO TINE CONLOSTIDALTIS CE DURNDO RICO

Bocing Company 2a Boattle, Washington.

To only contaet made vita

Nais 1l50ga2 ly Croch Intelligence in

the J.s, was by ow intormant.

Ous incornout 2o nor back in his native country and 18 onpocios to

contanuo to furiah to tho J.s. higinloval intolligonco In20rnatiOn. (5)

do anadvertenà Intorview of or physical zontralat placod

uper amisy by another agoney of the Covornmont os by local

authoritaos coald jeopardize tho saloty of our Croch lnformant.(s)

Jero" 12yo2 - Olyer hes ilkerise

IseL

Donouratios of Caocis Jate1ligenco

identitied by our high-levol

czech 1llocal ngont.

easoned the bos. in August, 1952, from Norway.

NO ES CURIONELY

onployed an a travaling onlornan out of New York Croy selling

zoligious miicles throughout the middlo lost.

According to our

Greob Informant, Ulver has notilled Croch intelligenco stat he was

scady do bogie operations, but our investigation indicatoa ho has

boon travellas extonsivoly in puroult of his employnoui and has

yot to toho any action indicating ho is 12lling an Intelligenco

inadvertent action by anothor agonay of the Govarnnon:

or by local authoritles pursuant to a request by Socret Service would

unquestionably alort Ulves and make 14 extremely ditlicult to covez hi:

auseoguent novemants.

To might bo roplaced by an illogal to know

nothing about and our Caech Inicrmand now in his rative countay would

Do under suspicios (5)

Findinir Daviace

Pavlecka in an ousedanding mochanical and

erection engines currontly employed at tho nockotcyno Diviaion os

north Anoracan Aviacion, danogy fork, CallIorala.

Cuz higt-lovol

infcumut in Croch Intolligenes has Identified Pavlecia as a paid

Fore again, ou Czech Laformant was in

cobral contact with Pavlodia and since our informant's rotan to his

andive consury, Puviccka has not boon in a mooting with other Cucci

¿nolligaaco ropesentatives:

Bo ans sont a signal lotter to

Coachoploralla sigualing for a noting with Croch intelligence,

Ca12200030.

Lose again, inpuvertoni action iy ochor Jedoral dr locci

authoritaos could dirupt our chilro coverage of tils case and moula

cortninly joopardize cur Croch intornant.

I3 the two other Caccia

espionago agents mutioned above and Pavlocka vore the subject of

overt sudansion by local o Toderal authorities, nori cortainly

tho finger vould to placed os our infomant (S)

Gono Carbonapil Monroto - Harrors 1a a Castro Cuban egont presently

in Yarn lim. He had a background of Communiss Party

comborale up to 1950.

The scontification 01 Mazero 23 & Castro-

Cuban egont seen out of inforation doveloped by Comunicatlots

Intolasgenes through the National Socurity Agency, nich Informatioz

(SECRET

DocId: 32319667 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

PATE: 11-14-2017

tomo

2'9:

• Enortoas to Sullivan

AND JIS COLMISTEALON & PUNATO RICO

connot bo Included in commnioniions

propared for dieseniaadios.

Dio Cactre-Cubar ngont activities hovo so 102 boou the Zunichizz

apos lotter drops in Cuba and Morico, Omploying Secrot Fritig.

Innovertoni sotion on tho part of ockor Tederal 03 local auci0z,1÷102

"nazoro to tho lacs that ho war curzontly undo

200P101070

Do woulê tO longos uso communication channals taici

ve aro covering and te would lone the bonelli of our currant i

covorage with no assurance, particularly 11 Marzero was r071303d

Ey who cubane, of boing able to cover hia replaconant. (5)

Anchuz Heyes Brandel

Condolila a antive-born catisen rosiding 12

Tramagdal,

, 0. 0.

- To is a dormos "New Tori: linos" somespondone.

moronily e Iroc-ance wiser mü a minbor of the Garcoas Freso Clab.

Do so e pale cousca of tha trasalav intolligence Servico those

Tugoslào mincipal 1o our Inforunut...

Any inadvertons interview or

physical costriction of Broadol by another Covertmont agoroy cs 100al

muchorition would ba entrancly detrimentsl to cur lugoslar iafomant

and sight, of courco, raiso tho question of adiaistrativa procsaro ou

Lous podia soprocontativor. (S)

Jococh. Pataich Donnor s

Bonnor is a nativa-born câticon wao 15 Vico

Prosiness In Cansga Ga Forolga Operacions for Daco Instruent Coapany,

Escoklyn, Now York.

Ho 15 a paid sourco of lugoslav Intolligenco.

Until March 30, 1004, ho had beon an engineoring dividios chici of

the Agoncy dor

intercaiional pavolorant (AlD)

He rosinued fros 219

wes confronted wish data that he apparently had "wo wives" caly ora

o? wach was logal and that he drank on the job.

Els connection with

Yugoslay intelligence was not brought out by Alb la couneation with

his rosignation.

Since his corala wonid not placo hin co the se oi

causo concorn in connection with the proscctios of the rosident,

anciessont contact with hin ly. other Covorment sgencios or jocal

authorities would corvo to alort him that he vas undes suopicion o2

Thio vould be bound to got back to tho Ingoalavs and

joopardizo the saloty of cur Vugoatay intolligonco intorunt,

parcloularly 11 Erandal, mentioned above, had boes inadvertently

approached. (S)

Alonia Von Volhorth - Vou Volhorth has boon identified as a

agent iron amoznatich furnished by our Feror: Infosmont.

Se 1e anies 2Ilcgal of Russins rinnish background viro cano to this

country in 2055 and has e petition for American citizonship ponding.

Ac 26 a mineralogist employed at the University of Hovsda, Reso,

Movade.

Ha Sn8 aW2n0 01 020

clandestino aceting nith & kas agont,

Evas Bolov, In San Francisco'& China Tova in February, 1963.

(5)

w St

SECRED

DocId: 32319667 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

3IÓNO

Eranigan to Sulliven

TRAVEL CE PRESIDLIE IN 5.5.

AND EXE COIDIOVEALTE OU PEERIO NICO

SECRET

ins

roturned to the nesh and to do not know tho identity of

Ves Volborth's now Sovlod principal.

Any inadvertent Intorvion 07

sobbinant of Vor Volbowth by anockos Fodoral agoncy or local

orriciala mould alore the KsD

to tho fact that thero 13 a

ponocration ot thor Now Fort Rosidoncy sizce Von Voltorth sag

handled fron that rosidency and only a lindiod numbor of porzons

thoso vore aunry of his orisconco.

The keD has boon particularly

ones his fraste 11 the suconko cano in the sals of 1963. ADy

lunchos alnem sonorated by the uncovering of Von Volborth voild

Dove to throw suspicion on our LastA Informant, particularly

d1 Live other sources of the ROB whose idontitios have boon

Zurichod to us by TabpRA and who are lioted lu the Spacial Eection

ox tho Cl, nore likoniso interylond or placad under resiraint by

chos redoral agoncios or local authorities (5)

'o cano lo truo in tho case of lou capiodage agents

sewing the foylor milltary Intolligence (CRU) mose idontities

VOrE JivON uD bY CUE TOPHAE Informant wao is now in the uSsh.

I2

one of thed was Inadvertently notifiod oi

covernaont interest, 14

might to considored accidental by tho CaJ.

I& for o2 then HOrO

saccusstonsly alerted, no would have placed our surhAd infornant's

11t0 in jeopardy (S:)

As Long as the Bureau maintains a tight grin on the

investigasions o2 thess copionago agento and controls the activisios

02 04.1

agencies rogarding then, furnishing ouly thas information

"; nocessary fos tho covering of leads or Icr tho alorcing os

topLoyal olfacials of our tovorunen, we can choose tho approstiato

timo do sovo in on tha

subjocts

and their principals looting toward

prosecution on the one hand and persona son grata action on the other.

_ 0..

Whos re relenso the focts to the Secrot Sorvico to candlo

Do choy till venever the Frosidont travols, va cas no longer control

tho degio-day operatione on taxo nocessary steps to proteci cu

Inion saãss vichout uhich our covorage of bloc intolligence vould,

Do suvepoly restriesed.

ACERON:

It mos bollered that you would want to know she ire facta

and donnila regarding those casas.

18 the Directos at11l wants to

dissoridato those 16 consitive espionago cocos to the Secret Servico,

2: wiZa be dono.

This Division docls the Director would want to know

to probions involved and the possible hara whica would coro througa

such blarior dissonination.

• I think ox not

OK-H:

to disseminate data on

these 16. T

7/1

SECRED

DocId: 32319667 Page 5

---

