# docid-32392701

## Page 1

Date: 02/26/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10414-10117

RECORD

SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

Case# :NW 53320 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

:

DATE

PAGES

CIA

CHIEF OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

DISPATCH: LIEMPTY/ PROGRESS REPORT FOR FOURTH QUARTER

1962

02/05/1963

2

SUBJECTS :

JFK ASSASSINATION

LIEMPTY

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

SECRET

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/07/04

COMMENTS: JFK-RH07 : F136 : 20040324-1064396

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10117

NH 53320

DocId: 32392701 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TRÚM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

"LIMPTY/Progress Report for Fourth Quarter 1962

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: For your information.

Reference: HMMA-20052

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

117

1. Background

The LIEMPTY Project is designed to collect operational information

on the LIMERICK installation and personnel, as well as selected targets of

opportunity through the use of stationary and mobile photographic coverage.

In addition, the project provides means for investigating leads provided by

the above noted assets and supporting other Station operations through renting

of safehouses, providing and servicing PO box drops, conducting countersurveil-

lances, and other related tasks.

2. Operations

LIEMPTY provides the majority of photos used by the Station in its

CE exploitation against the LIMERICK target. In this phase of the operation

tie LIE:PTY baschouses and phototruck produced approximately 122 rolls of oper-

ational photos for the Station's CE program. Selective examples of the

the se photos

operational use of these photos and the support given to other Station

operations by LIMPTY assets are as follows:

a. LIEMPTY photos proved that one Paul SKUP (aka Saul SKUP) did visit

the LIMERICK installation. This case was of interest to Headquarters

recently:

D. A LIEMPTY photo was utilized in identifying one Adolphe Pierre

POFFET as a visitor to the LIMMERICK establishment on 17 August

1963. LIEMPTY also provided make and license plates of the car

used by POFFET at that time. This case is presently of interest

to ODENVY.

CONTINUED

# Excinded

down i

Distribution:

3 - WHII

2

- Files

' CROSS REFERENCE TO

---

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-6-74/3

DATE TYPED

4 February 63

DATE DISPATCHED

5 February 63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HNMA-20642

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/3

53320

DocId: 32392701

Page 2

---

## Page 3

70r -

2212.

c.

LIEMPTY take provided photo evidence of the

ct that Cuauhtemoc

CARDENAS,

son of former Mexican President Lazaro CARDENAS del Rio,

visited the LIMERICK

installation for a period of four and one-

half hours on 28 December 1963:.

d.

In addition, LIMPlY photos were instrumental in Identifying

all arriving LIMERICK personnel.

including known and suspected

intelligence officers, Plus documenting the daily routine of all

personnel of the LIMERICK installation.

€.

LIEMPTY/LIENTRAP has provided photos of interest to KUTUBE/D

of the LIMERICK installation and is presently working on

similar

coverage of the DMLET installation.

f.

the area of pretext investigations, Oliver G. SCANTLING performed

with excellence in a number of these.

Among the more important

and revealing were those conducted

on 'Juan NAVES Ruiz and AEMIQUELET-

2 and 3 (this later in conjunction with Headquarters interest in

the case).

g. In support to other Station operations, Oliver G. SCANTLING has

been acting as alternate contact of LIEMIT-1 in a sensitive LAURICLE

operation.

The LIEMPTY cutouts (SCANTLING and GERENDE) also service

a number of P.O. Box drops used in Station operations including

those related to GYROSE activities and the LINLUCK operation.

h.

SCANTLING provided the cover correspondence for an SW mail channel

with EMLTTEA-1 while the latter was on assignment to Santo Domingo.

3. Security

During the reporting period there have been no known adverse

security

incidents affecting the LIEMPTY operation.

Meetings between the two cutouts

under the project

(SCANTLING and GERENDE)

and the KUBARK Case Officer, Jeremy L.

Niarcos, are made

in a clandestine manner

and meeting places and times are

frequently.

Meetings between the cutouts and action agents are made

in a similar manner.

In order to provide maximum compartmentation between

base-

houses, Oliver G. SCANTLING was inserted as the cutout to the LIMITED basehouse

and its basehouse keepers (LIEMPTY-6 and LIEMPTY-8) in October 1962.

replaced

Raymond H. GERENDE in this task.

GERENDE continues as cutout for the LIENIRAP

LICALIA, and LILYRIC phase of LIEMPTY.

In addition, this move makes for better

rapport between the cutout and LIEMPTY-6, (since LIEMPTY-6 and SCANTLING are

close in age) and gives GRENDE time to provide more prompt processing of the

raw photo take.

(In regard to this development, it should be noted that

GERENDE can now regularly provide finished product within 24 hours - sooner

upon request).

4.

Equipment

No new equipment was purchased

during the reporting period nor is any

purchase presently

contemplated.

Such repair to photo equipment as

is

necessary can be done locally without security implications.

5. Personnel

No personnel changes were experienced during the reporting period

other than that noted in paragraph 3 above.

Tilland sti

lard

, CURTIS

PiOu

down ra

LASSIFICATION.

SECRET

SC

FORM

10-57

530

jabi

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REFLACES FORMS

51.28, 51-28A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

HW 53320

DocId: 32392701

Page 3

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

crapey 1959111

---

