# docid-32305749

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10379

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/21/1958

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFC, FGJ, ASSOC, ILLEGAL ACT, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45754 DocId: 32305749 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rely! 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

2/21/58

Transmit the following in

PLAIN

TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Boardman_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Nease.

Mr. Parson

Mr. Rosert

Mr. Tamne

Mr. Trolter.

Mr. Clayton.

Tele. Room.

Mr. Holleman.

Miss Gandy

Via

AIR TEL

AIR

MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

Be

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2824)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A)

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM-"eelly summary

Re: JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO

PCIS

advised CIVELLO has been completely inactive

returning from New

York City where

he aopeared

before Federal Grand Jury.

It. J. 'M. SOUTER,

Dallas PD, and CHARLES MOORE OF DPS Intelligence

Unit,

state also CIVELLO inactive.

District Attorney

HENRY WADE, Dallas County advised

SA VINCENT E. DRAIN

on 2/18/58,

that he is contemplating in the rear

future having CIVELLO before a local Dallas County

Grand Jury.

WadE stated he is studing the possibility

of bringing CIVELLO before thestrandatiry anangranting

himnimmunity provided he would furnish information

relative to eastern contacts.

WADE stated that he would

anticipate CIVELLO refusing and if so he was also

studing the possibility of asking the local court

to hold CIVELLO in contempt, should CIVELLO refuse

to testify.

Pe :

JAMES ROBERT TODD

PCI

advised. 2/19/58, that

TODD waS

associating

ROBERT PAYNE, à

lawyer

in the ridelity

Union

Building, Dallas, and two

other individuals bu

the name of ERANK CASS and

GEORGE OWENS.

related that he had reliable

RECE 5

-Bureau (92-2824)

3- Day las

2-94-554

1-92-36

(8)

EX-136,

1-137-348

1-92-32

131620

8365

92 - 2824.

TA MAR

1958

Sent

Д.

Special Agent in Charge

CENTRAL

-*OTHER 4

OTHER 4

NW 45754 DocId: 32305749 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

information that these four individuals were traeling

by plane from the red Bird Airport, Dallas, lexas, to

Malana,

Texas, on weekends.

He aiso had heard that

they hao made

trips into

Mexico.

stated that

"hung out" at PAYNE's office considerably.

stated that when he was Assistant District Attorney

questioned TODD from time to time and knew him well

enough to reälibe that PAYNE and the other individuals

mentioned were probably involved with TODD, in some

type of underworld activity.

PCI stated he would attempt

to obtain

information relative to further activities

of these individuals in the very near future.

PAYNE, named above, is very active in criminal

law practice representing prostitutes and police char-

acters in Dallas, in arranging writs of habeas corpus

and further obtaining their release on bond after

arrest by local officers.

Associations with PAYNE

and the above named persons are being actively investi-

gated, to determine their relationships and activities.

Re: HARRY RAYMOND POPE

The whereabouts of POPE are not presently

known, it being noted that he is presently being

sought by the Dallas so as a fugitive after shipping a

bond posted by him on a state charge of possession

of narcotics.

The original information that led to

the arrest of POPE was

Munished l Dallas Padvised

that POPE's long-time girlfriend SANDRA NOBLE,

FBI #

3235734, had

taken up residence with him. _

advised

that POPE would undoubtedly

try to get in

touch with NOBLE and in the event he learned of

POPE's whereabouts,

would immediately furnish

information to the Dallas office and it is

2

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45754 DocId: 32305749 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

", +

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

contemplated that this information, if received, will be

imnediately furnished to the Dallas SO to effect

POPE's apprehension.

Re: MARION ROBERT RAIF, WAS.

PaT'S

and _

_have advised

that RAIT has continued to travel extensively in

recent weels.

a specific or detailed

although all are continuing to attempt to obtain

To date, information as to his travels.

they have been unable to furnish

such details.

Texas, and Jacksonville, Florida.

advised. 2/17/58,

that PEGGY JEAN

Dallas So # 84974 had originally been in orlahoma,

but had left and gone to Lafayette, Louistana,

she joined

ANY GIBSON RAIT, wife of subject and a

prostitute.

It will be noted RAII inaddition to

being considered under the Top Hoodlum Program,

is also the subject of a STA investigation,

Da 11a3 File # 31-7434, entitled MARION ROBERT RATE, 2003;

ANN GIBSON RAIF, WaS.-ViCtim; MARGARET VALENIINE, WAS,

Victim; UNKNOWN Victim.

WEEKS

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

3

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45754

DocId: 32305749 Page 4

---

