# docid-32317702

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)..

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10354-10030

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-350-E-211, 208

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

9

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

2 LOGS DATED 10/21/63, 10/22/63

w9.1

DocId: 32317702 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)*

DATE: 11รท14-2017

+ CG 6483-0%

10-21-63

Page three

B. Then she says, well I just detest that thing, well I

will go meet the pop, that is what she told me.

Q. What do you think, who do you think bought all her

30 children and

all of her crystal. Who do you think

bought it all? (No answer heard)

8:44 P.M. Another man enters but they are away from sourse.

QUEENIE

says he isn't going

that way ana BUTCH replies

he has no way home. Where is it at? Chicago. Another

that

mention made of Kentucky, right around that area. (Not

able to hear

what it was

about) On Harlem on west side

..of the street.

8:50P.M. SAM in and talking

about

his

golf clubs and

hitting the ball.

UNKNOW N man asks

SAM to open his trunk as he has the

filter in the car for SAM.

BUTCH

ANDY talks to XXXX

about the

heating system

and

some

work to

for

ability.

be donthis fellow glves

ANDY says that he has to take. Berwyn

them a break on the price

having charged CELANO's sustan for his work only $2500

for a $4000 job.

Will leave the 550 gallon oil tank down

there in the cellar but they will have to have the

welders

down there with a torch.

SAM says that the Court have openned the way for GENOVESE

to seek release on bail.

SAM says that he would like to

see him get a new trial.

(others talking in the distance

and one heard to say "Make that (obs) hearing look like

(obs.) "

SAM and UnKNOWN MAN talk about orojector and films. the

projector is automatica and all he

has to do is to put in

the film.

UNKNOWN says that

the last film "Walls of my

Heart" he did not show at all.

ANDY and BUTCH talk more about the heating system.

ANDY

will have someone come un to see them about one o'clock

tomorrow.

Several leave at 9:00 P.M.

Discussion of taking care of leaves needs about a week

to

do s0.

Talk about the gold game again.

Mention RICK BOCK place on NorthAvenue being raided and

there were eleven guys there and $2,000 in a poker game.

It was that son of (obs) KING.

-3-

DocId: 32317702 Page 2

---

