# docid-32292395

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10171

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-921

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC,-CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

03/13/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GAL, B/F INT, ASSOC, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292395

Page 1

398

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 1 3 1964

TELETYPE

FBI WASH DC

FBI CHICAGO

5:19 PM CST

DEFERRED

3-13-54

I@DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

FROM CHICA know

92-373 antiacketeering

DHM

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr..

Mr.

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Galeu-

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy..

DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED HE HAS RECENTLY

HEARD A DEVELOPMENT REGARDING NICK KOKENOS, OPERATOR

OF NICKY/S LOUNGE, IN CICERO, ILLINOIS, REGARDING HIS

RELATIONSHIP WITH ALEX. KOKENOS WAS QUOTE ON THE OUTS WITH

ALEX EÑQUOTE. HOWEVER, SINCE THEIR DIFFERENCES HAVE BEEN

SETTLED, ALEX WOW

IS REQUIRING MINOR HOODLUNS TO ATTEND THE

LOUNGE ON MONPAY

WEDNESDAY, AND FRIDAY, TO AID KOKENOS

FINANCIALLY: AS

RESULT, MANY OF THE LOWER ECHELON

INDIVIDUALS ASSICIATED WITH ORGANIZED CRIME, CAN BE SEEN

AT THE LOUNGE ON THE ABOVE NIGHTS. IT HAS BEEN FELT FOR

SOMETIME THAT ALEX MAY ALSO BENEFIT FINANCIALLY FROM THIS

LOUNGE INASMUCH AS HE HAS BEEN EXTREMELY CLOSE TO THIS

OPERATION BOTH FINANCIALLY AND WIIH HIS PRESENCE THERE / 8222

92 -

AND THIS WAS ALSO THE FORMER SCENE

OF AtLARGE GAMBLING

OPERATION SEVERAL YEARS AGO.

• MAR 16 1964

10%

END

WA CCH

53 MAR 1 9 1964

CC: MR. EVANS

FBI WASH DO

DocId: 32292395 Page 2

---

