# docid-32288790

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-232

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/06/1961

3.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, RES, FINANCIAL INTERESTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288790

Page 1

161

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

PAGE TWO

FORMER EMPLOYEE OF. THE ATLAS BREWING CO• AND THAT ALEX WAS ORICINALLY

HIRED BY STANLEY STUPNER, NOW DECEASED. ALEX WAS EMPLOYED AS A

SALESMAN IN THE LOOP AREA AND DUE TO THE FACT THAT HE HAD MANY

CONTACTS IN THAT AREA, WAS AN EXCELLENT SALESMAN. KANNE SAID THAT

HE WAS AWARE OF ALEX/S REPUTATION AS A HOODLUM BUT THIS MADE NO

DIFFERENCE TO HIM SINCE HIS ONLY CONCERN WAS THE VOLUME OF BUSINESS

ALEX WAS ABLE TO OBTAIN FOR THE ATLAS BREWING CO. KANNE SAID HE

HAS NOT SEEN ALEX FOR THREE OR FOUR YEARS BUT CONSIDERS HIM A HIGH

CLASS INDIVIDUAL AND IS NOT ASHAMED OF HIS PAST ASSOCIATION WITH

ALEX. HE SAID ALEX IS WELL LIKED BY MOST PEOPLE HE COMES IN CONTACT

WITH AND THAT HE HAS A GOOD PERSONALITY. HE SAID THAT WHILE ALEX

WAS EMPLOYED FOR ATLAS BREWING CO. HE KNEW OF NO INCIDENTS WHEREIN

ALEX MUSCLED

ANY CUSTOMERS. HE SAID HE HAD NO OTHER BUSINESS DEALINGS

WITH ALEX OR HIS ASSOCIATES AND THAT HE HAS HAD NO FINANCIAL TRANS-

ACTIONS OF ANY IT KIND WITH ALEX. HE SAID HE HAS NEVER BEEN APPROACHED

BY ALEX REGARDING ANY POSSIBLE INTEREST OF ALEX IN LAS VEGAS.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED THAT THE ALBERTO DASH CULVER

CO•, WHICH MANUFACTURES V. O.. HAIR PREPARATION AND WHICH IS LOCATED

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32288790 Page 2

---

