# docid-32307949

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10307

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2160

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/12/1967

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, GENOVESE FAMILY, GANGLAND WARFARE, GUNS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307949

35

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

11-14-2017

10-17

VIA TELETYPE

OCT 1 2 1967

WA- -15

ENCIPHERED

FBI NEW YORK

18-32

BM URGENT 10-12-67 JVD

AUTO DIRECTOR (92-6054)

FROM NEW YORK (92-2300)

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Mohr--

Mr. Bishop.

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Gallahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr.

Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room-

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

LA COSA NOSTRA; AR - CONSPIRACY

REBUTEL TO NEW YORK, OCTOBER ELEVENTH LAST.

FOR INFORMATION OF OTHER OFFICES, NY FOUR THREE THREE SIX

DASH CE ADVISED ON OCTOBER TENTH, LAST,

THAT MEMBERS OF GENOVESE

FAMILY ARE ARMING FOR GANGLAND WARFARE AND WILL ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN

REVOLVERS, MACHING GUNS BY CASE LOAD.

INFORMANT ADVISED THAT

GEORGE FILIPONE AND JOSEPH TEDESCHE, MEMBERS OF GENOVESE FAMILY,

AND JOSEPH COLABRO, BELIEVED TO BE IN GAMBINO FAMILY, HAVING PUT

OUT WORD INTO CRIMINAL CHANNELS THEY ARE INTERESIED IN OBTAINING

WEAPONS, EITHER BY THEFT OR PURCHASE FROM CRIMINAL ELEMENT.

END PAGE ONE..

92-6054-2160

REC 16

726054-2153

18 OCT 17 1967

306

28

530CT 2 3 19674

DocId: 32307949 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

SINCE NYO AT THIS POINT DOES NOT HAVE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

RE NATURE OF EFFORIS BY ABOVE THREE TO OBTAIN WEAPONS, ATTD, NYC,

WAS ADVISED IN VIEW OF POSSIBLE FFA VIOLATIONS. NYO WILL BE ALERTED

FOR INFORMATION RE SPECIFIC FFA OR OTHER VIOLATION IN BUREAU'S

JURISDICTION AND BUREAU INTEREST WILL BE SECURED.

BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO UTILIZE RECORDS OF NCIC TO INSURE

NYO WILL BE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED OF ANY WEAPONS THEFIS POSSIBLY

CONNECTED WITH THIS MATTER.

MIAMI, NEW HAVEN AND NEWARK SHOULD DISCREETLY CONTACT KNOWLEDGE

ABLE INFORMAINS REGARDING THIS MATTER, PROTECTING IDENTITY OF NY

SOURCE, AND IMMEDIATELY ADVISE OF ANY RECENI OR FUTURE WEAPONS THEFTS

PERTINENT TO THIS SITUATION.

NEW YORK FOUR THREE THREE SIX CASH CIE WILL ADVISE OF ANY

ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THIS MATIER..

AIR MAIL COPIES SENT TO NEWAK MIAMI

AND NEW HAVEN

END

RAK FBI WASH DO

Poic

DocId: 32307949 Page 3

---

