# docid-32175904

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNK ADDADDINA LUIN D YO LUIVI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

, FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10183-10191

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 62-116395-1691

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRENNAN, D. J. JR.

TO:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 11/23/1963

PAGES: 74

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

CC, LHO, POST-RP, LIAISON WITH USSS, INFORMANT, ACT, TRIP TO MEXICO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

12/23/1998

UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001

Redact

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC 2 A/T, TTY, 16 MEMO, EBF

DocId: 32175904 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-04+4017

GSA GIA. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATE.

Memorandum

MENT

TO

MR. A. H. BELMONT

FROM

MR. W. C. SULLIVAN

SUBJECT:

SECKEV

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONS. TO

DECLASCIROGTON MAHOR

1 - Mr. Belmone

}

Mr.

Mohr

RELEASE OF CIA INGRATION

- Mr. CallahaniN THIS DOCUMENT 50 eritio

DATE: 12-14-64 644p y

1

Mr. Sullivan

NT.

3/10/97

D. E. Moore

1

Mr.

McWilliams

Trotter

Tele. Rocni

Holmes -

Gandy -

- Mr. Branigan

YURI NOSENKO

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

Yuri Nosenko is the alleged KGB (Conmittee

of State Security) official who defected to the

nel without

This

the

express

approval of the FBI.

your commitice and the content man abi be disciosed

nation outside your Commitice. g.use.

document is prepared in response

to

fimitr? te

io unauthorized person

affinia!

moceedings by

your request and is not for dissemi-

Switzerland.

Almost from the inception of Nosenko's

oner tain elements of Brition intelfigence 5,

concurred with this conclusion& Since his deféction,

CIA has been intensively interviewing him to develop

his story,

seeking to develop enough evidence to prove

that ne is part or a naster decepcion pian conceives

by the KGB in Moscow.

Tie Bureau has been furnishe

with various papers from the Nosenko interviews and

various analyses of Nosenko's story.

Bureau representatives have previously met

with CIA representatives concerning their conclusions

and we have always maintained an open mind in regard

to the bona fides of Nosenko and the other defectors

who are suspected of being a part of the alleged master

deception plan.

We have now received from CIA an invitation

to meet with them again to discuss in greater detail

the legitimacy of Nosenko's defection

and the courses

of action that may be taken.

It is evident from the

CIA request that they have definitely concluded that

Nosenko is a KGB provocation.

It would be important to

our counterintelligence operations to meet with thein

hear the evidence upon which this conclusion is based

and to ascertain if it has

our

own operations.1-20+94

ou asperations it has any important bearing on a r

Ence

WAB:hry Classified

D/K5R68

(8)

Declassify ga

DATIREC- 34

(JFK):

ELS DEC

22 1964

belle

67 DEC 281964

SECREOVI

BOTION

65-68530

ThIRD AGENCY

DELETIONS

(TAD)

• NO

DocId: 32175904

Page 2

---

