# docid-32319570

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10371-10101

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-R11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROSEN

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/03/1964

251

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, REPORTS

DISSEMINATION TO COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, LET, LISTS, R/S, NOTES, REPORT

v9.1

DocId: 32319570

64

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy 'Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107 lote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• Belmont

]

1

• Rosen

• Sullivan

- Malley

• Branigan

Soptesher 14, 1004

BY COURIER SEIVICE

Mail Room

• Lenthan

Sonasable J. 100 Baulidn

Coneral Counsel

The President's Consteadon

Hashtagtas, D. Co

Dear ir. Rankla:

Inste are entions to copies each as the followla

samuntentions chion set farta sesaits of our lavertination

comteraing loa sarvey usuald and related Inquiries:

So 1504, a8 Hlam

Florida,

Ho yiil continne to suratch you coplas of communte

tons in supileato contadning further resulta of ou

inventInation.

CLASSITIED BY 5668 SL0/6CL

DECLASSIRY ON: 25XOX6L

I5K) 5/13/99

Sinceraly guarE.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ROMAIN IS UICLASSIFIED

BASE: 2522HE SHOWN

SECRET

REL: pah

(9)

(SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

DocId: 32319570 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

¡ Récords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Honorable J. Lee Rankin

NOTE:

These reports and memoranda, consisting of 50 pages,

have been approved by the supervisors, Mr. Belmont and Mr. Malley.

Transmittal letter is classified "Secret" inasmuch as 8/31/64

memorandum entitled "Mark Lane, James Relaney Garst" contains

information from British intelligence which has been classified

The report of SA James Morrissey bears

a "Confidential" classification inasmuch as the report contains

data developed through our coverage of Soviet diplomatic official

the unauthorized disclosure of which would be detrimental to the

interest of the U.S.

SECRET

-2 -

301-10101

DocId: 32319570

Page

3

---

