# docid-32125890

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Identification Form

WINNINgSW

нись.

JILUILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10027-10227

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-109060-3967

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

_ SUBJECTS :

02/19/1965

3

ADMINISTRATIVE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/24/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

D&dId: 32125890

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DAJFA1618.2011

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES C

ERNMENT

Memorandum

'f="

TO

Director, FBI (62-109060)

DATE:

2/19/65

FROM

egat, Mexico (89-6) (P)

SUBJECT:

end

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT.

- 11/22/63. 3

DALLAS & TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS- INFORMAT LON CONCERNING

DECIASSIFTAD

7303 RU

ENCLOSURES

Classified by

Exempt from CDS.

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are thirty (30)

copies of an insert relating to the captioned case and bearing

the subheading,

"ALLEGATIONS BY GABRIEL LOPEZ GUERRERO, also

known as Gabriel James Lopez, Gabriel J. Lopez, Salvador

Martinez, FBI No. 265951A, Saltillo, Coahuila,

Mexico. "u

REFERENCE

Duc

Mexico City letter to the Bureau dated 2/4/65.u

ADMINISTRATIVE

In order that the Dallas office may attribute to the

which is considered by it to be desirable, the enclosed insert

is being submitted without any classification.U

A separate source of information page is not being

prepared in view of the fact that only one source is utilized

in the enclosure and this source is identified hereinafter.u

On 2/4/65, SANTANA JIMENEZ, Chief of Investigations,

Saltillo, Coahuila, Mexico, advised that

GABRIEL LOPEZ GUERRERO had no immigration papers and the Mexican

- Bureau (Encs. 30)

N 2 DESL'OE MAZLICE

2BI

62-109060-396

(1 - Liaison

Section)

(2 - Dallas,

89-13%6

2 - Mexico Cit

RTN : jhk

4x.113

2 MAR 1 1965

(7)

3 IS PRECIO

G ENCLOSURE

DINISION

СЕНЕНИГ ТИЛЕЗУЛіЛЕ

HECEINED

2 CC of Let + 2506'

6 DL ley 0-1' 31g/65

AND I

69 MAR 9

1965

DocId: 32125890

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote): DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 89-6

Immigration authorities would await the outcome of a check

with United States police agencies to decide on LOPEZ GUERRERO'S

deportation following any sentence he might receive as a result

of his arrest. f(4)

In a foreign Police Cooperation case, which was

immediately opened under the name of GABRIEL LOPEZ GUERRERO

(MC 163-3990), the FBI Identification Division furnished LOPEZ

GUERRERO's arrest record which accounts for his aliases under

FBI No. 265951A. The arrest record verifies his admitted arrests

and showed him not to be wanted by any agency. This information

was furnished to SANTANA JIMENEZ on 2/15/65.

SANTANA JIMENEZ

stated that LOPEZ GUERRERU would probably be deported to the

United States within a week.

He also stated that LOPEZ GUERRERO

mentioned to him that upon his deportation to the United States,

he would probably return to his home in Beaumont, Texas: f(e)

The confidential source referred to in the enclosed

insert is SA ROBERT T. NISCHWITZ. V

COPIES

Two copies of this letter and 25 copies of the enclosed

insert are designated for the Dallas office in accordance with

existing Bureau instructions.U

LEAD

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

At Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico

Will contact officials of

the Benjamin Franklin Library

to ascertain if LOPEZ GUERRERO did,

in fact,

work

for this

Library on 11/22/63. U

- 2 -

DocId: 32125890

Page 3

---

