# docid-32337426

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90137-10192

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-11956-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE :

DATE: 07/24/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES VON SCHWANIZ

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

49.1

DocId: 32337426

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kenn

sassinatton Records

Coltection Aut

01 1992(44 USC 2107 Note).

SECRET

1 - Mr. Myers

pOlARY 5661 31-52

CIA MAR MEN

FOXON TO

DE.

P.EL.

IN THIS DOC.Nica1. KP81-14-97

EXCEPT BROCKETS

July

24,

1962

56668-540/ack 9/1/95 (JFK)

Clacemed oy

13 Rooleti

lectosshy On

2/130

CHARLES

VOR SCHWANITE

: Known

Charles

July 31, 1918

JUL 2 5 1962

Schwanit ZAME CHECK

In response to your request there ore

attached

twO

reports

which appear to relate to the captioned individual

and his forer spouse.

In addit iom,

the files of this Bureau reveal that

quring tou an intormant,

who was an executive of a Brownsville,

TeXaS,

newspaper, cavisee that he had known charles chuck

and Barbara

Schwanita for a munber of years and that Chuck

has vorked for the sane newspaper chain on threc different

occasions.

According to the informant Schwanitz left

Brownsville in approsinately 1957 and moved

to Mexico living

in an apartment at Calle

Ixtabaloa,

wumber , Iraquepague,

just outside of Guadalajara.

ine intormant stated

tnat while in Guanalajare on business he contacred schvanita

who accompanied him on a tuo-day trip to loos at a mine.

According to

ung intormant, unile enroute Schvanita hod

SOuC

sort or @ selaure causing then to have to stop on the side of

the road while he

heated

some sort of a substance in a spoon

gave himself a shot directly in the vein.

The Infornant

stated that in his opinion both Chuck and Barbara Schnitz

vere on narcoties.

the informant further related that when Schvanitz

• for

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.-

Holmes .

Gandy

neglecting

their children and not

feeding them properly.

The informant advised

that when

. Schwanita moved

Monico he took with him by smsgling past Mexican officials

at lesst kirteen pistole

Mexico

a very bigh prosit.

REG- 24

FBI files contain an identif if tienzed

Barbara Fletcher Von

Schwanita,

risher

thich, reveals

the

also know

Darbara

following infomasion..

* Barbara

Jenn

IU CIA

Request Received:

See note on page 2.

ENLAW M28014

"his document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property o

andris loaned to your agency; it and its

contehts are not to be distributed outside your

agency;

¡in answer to your request for a check of FBI files.

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCGASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

DocId: 32337426

Page 2

---

