# docid-32290310

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10086

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2653, 2654

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

"PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/30/1976

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, INVEST, MURDER, RES, ASSOC, LCN, INQUIRY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32290310

Page 1

257

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

SEAR

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

11/30/76

smit the following in

AIRTEL

SEE REVERSE

SIDE

CLASSIFICATION

ACTT

CIES

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

AIDITTO

FROM:

SAG, CHICAGO (92-349)

ADVISED IN SAY

VG

SLIP (S) OF

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

DATE

00: CHICAGO

LASS. & NXT. BY 6 3PЭNETA

WASON-FCIM IT, 1-2.4.24

The Chicago Office has completed an analysis of g

За6

information developed in instant matter as it concerns

9.88. 81

the gangland-type slaying of GIANCANA, former

"boss" of

organized

crime in Chicago, in his residence in Oak Park,

Illinois,

in July, 1975.

The purpose of this analysis is

HAN CONTAINED

to suggest that Legat, Mexico City be requested to make

NCLASSIFIED

who is believed to be in a position where he might be

WHERE SHOWN

GIANCANA while GIANCANA was in self-imposed "exile" in

Mexico during the period 1966 - 1974, which might serve

OTHERWISE!

o shed some light on the motives for this killing (4)

AFTED

The following is a composite of information

obtained during recent years from three highly placed

Chicago informants who were intimately associated with

GIANCANA before, during and after the 1966 - 1974 period.

These are former CG 7177-PC, undoubtedly the closest

intimate of GIANCANA during his period in Mexico and

prominent Chicago LCN member; former CG 7016-CTE,

until his death in July, 1976 one of the top half-dozen

leaders of organized crime in Chicago for decades; and

CG 6481-CTE,

a prominent Chicago LCN member who was a

close GIANCANA associate before 1966, visited GIANCANA

in

Mexico from time to time and who

was

vEry

• close to GIANCANA

upon

his return from, Mexico in 1974. (V)

airted 105190:8, 1116

Bureau (RM)

EX-105

REC.59

92-3171-26653

Chicago

DEC

1976

(1-137-3780)

(I-TECIP TICKLER)

autes to

13/19/16

WER/ 1am

Approved:

NAMEREN

2076

Sent

CLASSIFTED

EXEMPT FROM

CATEGORY

2. 34

MATE OR DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE do?

10%0

DocId: 32290310

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Money.

DATE: 11-14-2017

*CG

-349

SE

CG 7177-PC (accompanied GIANCANA to Mexico in

June, 1966 and lived

with him there for almost the entire

jobs for GIANCANA. This PC had many contacts in Mexico

basis that certain privileges could be obtained for him

Chere.

Pe introduced GIANCANA tO JORGE CASTILLO, a very

influential Mexican attorney with contacts in the higher

levels of Mexican Government.

PC advised that CASTILLO

made contact with LUIS ECHEVERRIA ALVAREZ, then the Minister

of Government in 1966, and now President of Mexico.

According

to this information, CASTILLO was able to provide certain

considerations to ECHEVERRIA which enabled GIANCANA to remain

in Mexico from 1966 to 1974 even though he had been declared

undesirable, a category which ordinarily precluded a person

from remaining in Mexico. As the Legat, Mexico City,

will recall, many efforts were made to effect the expulsion

of GIANCANA during this period, but it was not until 1974,.

some four years after ECHEVERRIA was elected president,

that he was expelled. pu

Not only from CG 7177-PC, who was somewhat involved,

but from other sources, it is known that GIANCANA was

involved in a CIA plot

1960s to effect the removal of FIDEL CASTRO in Cuba. Involved

the venov the

in the period 1959 into the early

In this plot was JOHN ROSELLI, well documented from many

sources including Chicago highly confidential sources as

a GIANCANA lieutenant.

ROSELLI, of course, was murdered

earlier this year in Florida,

some several

boss, involved with him in this scheme, was murdered

CG 6481-CTE; who was very close-to GIANCANA

decades and during the period upon his return from Mexico

elaims that GIANCANA's murder was not a Chicago mob

contract, and that he believes the

murder was accomplished

by forces outside organized crime. (Le)

The other two sources mentioned above, however,

advised that GIANCANA was having a conflict with the

current Chicago organized crime leaders, namely TONY

ACCARDO, GUS ALEX and JOE ATUPPA, over a highly lucrative

source

of income which GIANCANA set up while Chicago

"Boss" in the 1950s and 1960s, and which he claimed

thereafter was his personal project and one not belonging

to Chicago organized crime.

CG 7177-PC furnished this

information prior to his own gangland slaying in December,

1973, while CG 7016-CTE advised of it subsequent to the

Mising uf clamianA and prior to his own natural death y

SEgRET

DocId:32290310 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10205-10086

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2653, 2654

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/30/1976

4

SGI, INVEST, MURDER, RES, ASSOC, LCN, INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32290310

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETIo.

To:

BEANS

SEE REVERSA

12/17/75

CIASSIFICACION

ACTION

From:

LEGAT, Mexico City

Director,: FBI (92-3171)

Mr.

Mc Curnin

TION CONTAINED

NCLASSIFIED

SHOWN

HEREIN ISA

WHERE

HERWISE

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka;

Do chicago

SD RY

GH 62 REP

Enclosed herewith is Chicago airtel to the

Bureau dated 11/30/76.0

LEGAT, Mexico

city, will in accordance with

cnicago request attempt to contact Gutierrer barrios

regarding

information in his possession concerning captioned

subject.

"iry

TET,

Enc.

2881

1796

AGArGIES

75035

AND FIT

ADVISED

SLIP(

DATE

ALT INTO

HEXI,

EFOr

0120T

Declas

#83

impeal

Dep. AD Inv.

404060-188

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Intel!.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgt.

S.& T. Serv.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm.

4/17184

MAILED 15

DEC 2 0 1976

FBI

TH

Classi

Decising on: DADR

REC-59g2

13191-654

DEC 20 ic/

CHASSIFTED BY

VASA

EXEMPT FROM GDS,

ATEGORY

DATE OF DECLASS LOCATION INDEFINITS gZEL78

LEt wrote: SECRET

DocId: 32290310

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• PD-30 Rev. 2-14-74:

SEARE

FBI

Date:

11/30/76

mit the following in

SMEARA ORSE

SIDA BOR

CLASSIFICAIION

ACTI

i d.

4/17/84

(Type in plaintexl or code)

AIRTEL

DEC

FIED BY

ON h

1485

1675F Precedences

IES

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

ATT

FROM:

SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

ADVICIO

SLIP (S) OF

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL, M. GIANCANA, aka

DATE

LASS. & RYT. BY 6 3P 3/URTIAG

00: CHICAGO

REASON-FOIM-IT, 1-2.4.2

DATE OF ROVIDI

18.3

96

the Chicago Ortice has completed an analysis

of

9.29-8)

Information developed in instant matter as it concerns

the gangland-type slaying of GIANCANA, former

• "boss"

of

organized

crime in Chicago, in his residence in Oak Park,

IN CONTAINED

IllInois,

in July, 1975.

The purpose of this analysis is

suggest that Legat,

Mexico City be requested to make

mariot with & Mexican official, as detailed herein belonge

INCLASSIFIED

CRE SHOWN

who is believed to be in a position where he might be

knowledgeable

ning certain machinations involvingkal

CLANCANA while GIANCANA

was in self-imposed "exile" in

Mexico during

the period 1966 - 1974, which might serve

OTHERWISE/

shed some light on the motives for this killing.* (4)

The following is a composite of information

CONTATTIN

obtained during recent years from three highly placed

Chicago Informants who were intimately associated with

CLANCANA before, during

and after the 1966 - 1974 period.

These are former CG 7177-PC, undoubtedly the closest

rat,

12/131%6

Leaders of organized crime in Chicago for decades; and

CC 6481-CTE, a prominent Chicago LCN member who was a

cLose GIANCANA

associate before 1966, visited GIANCANA in

Mexico from tine to time and ho was very close to GIANCANA

upog his

return from Mexico in 1974.

acuted

x-105

REC-59

92-3171

-2653

Bureau

(RM)

Chicago

(16137-3780)

(I-TECIP TICKLER)

* DEC

1976

I7R/

AHE

NINE

Sent

SANFAR

SEORI

CLASSIFIED

EXEMPT FROM

CATEGORY

TATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDBY INITE 45/28

DocId: 32290310

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-349

SORDEL

EXCRET find

Obviously ,therefore, there are conflicting theories

emanating from highly

placed sources. No effort is made herein

to evaluate either.

However, it has come to the attention of the Chicago

Office that there is available in Mexico a Goverment official

who is in position to know of the motives involved in allowing

GIANCANA to stay in Mexico from 1966 to 1974 and why he was

suddenly expelled in 1974. This official logically would have

implemented

the expulsion. He may well know specifically who

It was who wanted GIANCANA expelled in 1974, whether representatives

of organized crime or of forces outside organized crime.

Information would be most helpful in evaluating

the motives

behind the killing of GIANCANA, and possibly be pertinent to

the ROSKIL matter.

(V)

This official is FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS, Undersecretary

of the Ministry of Government and an ECHEVERRIA aide.

As liaison

contact of many years standing, there is reason to believe a

iscreet direct contact with him by Legat, Mexico City, or bj

contacts of the Legat who have also had close, continuing liaisor

with him might elicit the desired information.

As President

ECHEVERRIA Leaves office December 1, 1976,

may also be leaving government, this may be a particularly

propitious moment for an approach.

on apronia

and GUTIERREZ BARRIOS

The Bureau is, therefore, requested to have Legat,

Mexico City approach GUTTERREZ BARRIOS unless there are strong

reasons not to. 3

(n)

- 3 --

STORET

SEGRET

DocId: 32290310

Page 7

---

