# docid-32315281

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10341-10031

HQ

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

41

SUBJECTS :

PERSONAL NOTES OF MARK FLANNIGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: NOTES DATED 5/20/59 THRU 11/22/63, INC ADMIN PAGE

y9.1

DocId: 32315281

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

a11954 notation on file "Mountained , Rom 8988 JEH

SCA

-28-78

Memorandin

5-20-59

тб: тл. RR. RoAch

FA: Papich

62-9-289

Subj Deportation of gamblus ad Gangate perm

Cuta

- cmeans a copy of a memo 2t8 5-7-59

hans melted to the Ins office in suami, fL

Ky the INs Mep in Havana, Cuba.

contens ar pallourry нат:

FRANK

William Bischoff

aka Lefty Clack, Hany' Bishop

Geordano Cellini, T.N. Gotudo. Cellini

Biath appot 1928, OH10

cuba in

yaniel faziani

1=1-22

ucies Graspani, b. Mar seilles, FRANK

• Cura, ga.

ande Antanck,

6. 4- 30425n. Entranck (Audia) Paration

, Gardones, FRANCE

Ed Levenson

cula, ga.

Nerada, Cuba

Dusty Pettes, I.N. Daniel Lapite Cute, FL.

DocId: 32315281 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Joseph Silesi

чка

1897.

soe Rivers,

N.y., cara

Pelte Stepenoff

Cula, U.s. -

William mose or Willian Munroe Cuba, 41.

Joseph Catione

fent de lot nomen

cura -us

Vincent Controne

Vicente Controne

Cuba -us

Cute-us

Laurence allen grilley, ate Lansy gole

6 10-5-32 Canden, N.J. Cuba FI

joaquin Corto

Joaquin Carbo Cordova

b Sentenden, SPAIN..

Cuba

Maria Cecilia Posada Cuba MUS.

noteto anger Portimene Cerejido

Cura

acterto Pernas Tomer

6.11-7-31

Havana,

FL

Ny. Orgentina

farce Lansky

cutor us

julius

Rosal, Lamper, Cut MASS

Rosengard

DocId:32315281 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Subj: Anti-fidel Castro det.

109-584-134

6-5-58

- encloses a menco - ducusses the actinhe

o Rolando Arcadio Masperses Rojas, former

Cuban trator;

coen an ablack' on the

fall i Pines;

- mentiom Ruchard Jaffer and Rotet Daut

as two pilots involred is transpocton

armo to Curta far Tamiami arport,

Miami, FL.

-alo mentin a group called the Cusade

of Revolutionare againt Communiem (CRAC).

headed by Saliador Din keson and

fore his Pujal- poup the CRAC

has men prepaied to assassmate Castro,

at the inceptim of the actach again.

Сита

- mentio, that Pujil and two other are

traceling to

Then i in to see General

оа to

har a

moroe, geogia.

DocId: 32315281 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

Hank letterhead теть

6-10-55

TO: DIN, C1A

Fn: Hoover

Jubj: Anlo-Fide Centro Actintess.

adjutant gineral

acneed that

Ray molina

(could not understand the name) antacted

humn 6-41-59; wantel to

acquir cum

Hear repund to

help

saall selectind memo

6-1259

10: offic of decerity

Fa: Hbover

Subj: anti Fidel Actoredies

- encloses a memo re: the allegatio 7.

Francica Rodigues, derbed as a.

Curan army cap laun

who rently intries

lou u.s. on a purchasing mussin for

the Cuban gov.;

allegatins:

1) Russia appuen are helpers curse

army.

an 6-3-59, the date of his

departure,

Fidel Castio

DocId: 32315281 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

permally inside to to asanal

Rolando

masterser, a former Cular

- penato amerdered to be a car cuminal

by the Carto regime.

memorandum-appice-

7-141-59

ТО: MA. R.R. Roach

КЛ: S. J. Papich

105-78016-13

•Subj: LorAn Eugene Hall

Latial Security-Cuba

- staces that sell no an Am colegn incarcerales

in Cuba due to be wlaid soon.

office f

ecurely, CiA, Adried the Leasion

agent that Cin was Overe of Hell's?

johnny retuen and peanned

to strict him for the prepes of der. lads.

the bream aunt adviced

till was the suty. M a sending Break

unretation a planned to int. hari.

sand the world wait until

FBI

enducted thee nurew.

DocId: 32315281 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

memorandum

1-20-59

ТО: тл. F. A. FROMBOSE

fA.: S.J. Papich

Subj:

BATiSTH

=an

1-17-59,1

tred the dear

mpo

162-70441-157

ICIA,

that the follourag

- The Curlan Cmoul General, N.Y. C.,

adreed lenpormant)

Ital tendior

mer. Capetan mend 20,000

to effect the intrance

cape leper sue templaton:

memorandum

7-29-59

ТО: та. F.A. Faoh bore

Б.Л.:. s. J. Papich

shi. marcus dan dany

- at a Pedro Day sam; e.

четь

in Cuba, with Ut

assistance of cia, and is now in Tampa.

Stato wat CM. ill tempoiarl ke

reprocle for be eul trash

CIA

CIA rep. is Miami.

I going to alter to mese subji's

DocId: 32315281

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

win...,

YEAR

1960

ASCA

11-28-78

nailerned in rom 8988 JEH

ban! litrhead тето

SAC, LEO

3-28-60

DIA, ABI

105-79913)-45

Angel torenzo saaredia Conea

- Mate that CiA adried laison an

3-23-60 that info receired from sonne

of unnoum reliabilly indicating lat Cubar

ente suspect saaradia o being a plant t

that to is actually calling for tasted

nore: Saadia former Was Millary Attacke

at WDC who defected for lacto regime

A med February

* is seeking asylum

in dis. - interneint a sercial occasions...

by the WFO.

memoradum

4-1-60.

TO: Ma. F.4: FROH BOSE

i Fe: S.J. PAPICH

Subj:

William

A. WIELAND

DiR, DERILE Of CARIBEEN AND MOXICAN

ARFAIRS

Dep't Of STATE

INE. COnCERNiNG

IS-CUBA

BuKiE 100-347731-7

- sily. holds key position. in stato Rep't'

at present turne

ma 1946. the.Lergl

DocId: 32315281 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DocId: 32315281

sympathetic torracks Russia; that he poofissed

siogamy the Cammierial paily in Brazil.

sa 1960, den Smachers acked you arcilable

ago on Weiland.

vice Pres Nix an alas

intrested in this affair die to meland'o

position in the statt Depaitment.

allo, an 3-31-60.

toed.

Papich that, unfo

CIA,

ha

been receries

that the Carteo gor had a sounce

in the

Carebbean dincion of the state Dep't.

plated that the unfo is cmud o anather

ague. Us. A in Fonce -

apich saup he persmally Knew Weland

white in brazil Quing Ww I and finds it

dipficult to beliere that he obtained such

a Key position

saip Wab CIA will cotonue to follow the

malter.

Memorandum

,6-16-60

TO: MAL'ALLIER

197-4295-9

FR: J.J. PARICH

(2)

Subj: MOVIMENTO REZIPERALION PEVOLUCIONARIO

IS-CUBA

— the mention that the sul; is not duceled

by the cia althogh cutan members coul?

exertually be used lay

on the

орегано;

what is

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

memorander

0-14-60

TO: MA L'ALLIEN

KA: S. J

Papich

105-30972-68

Latinal Security - CUBA +

- subj uno utilizit as an it.

i le communet.

-dominald

organization,

now

tr

disassoccate himself fion

- slate that the can allempting to arrange to.

have

brand to Curat

pure as on

соти 9 спро.

- aero ap thair pros to leanny for Havara

will allomp to coot hi wife,...

who is will known to te

CIA

I has a communut background.

- state thal marriage to

actecally promoted

in orda to improv hi position no

saup that he has been seperated for some

ть allous the woke to get back again.

ChA sop it hopes tat a resumptem a

he ratimihip

o mel help. in estatehin

mochobill communist colout is Cuba.

DocId: 32315281 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO: ma. L'ALLice

9-30-60

Да."

S.J.

Sabj:

97-3805-35

Is-cuba

09-29-60

to

cit, handed

to

allempt to recruit

for intell assignments in Cuba.

MEMORANOUM

т0: ma. L'ALLieR

10-20-60

ER: S. J. Papich

Subj: FRD

105-87912-84

- mentions that E. A.

tve cro office attached

with.

Blank lettechead menco.

Legal Attache, mexico

DIN FBI

РАБІС

Internal

Ли -

‚ Cuba

10-26-60

105-85333-13

an 10-141-60

I cos confo adreed that it

1s in the process of attempting to recruit.

subj.; sub, has ben reported by variois

soices as head of Cuhan intelleric in

Max to Central Amai

been in emilact

mexioi

with Soviet

ha also

fpicial.n.

DocId: 32315281

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

-statte late

been encountour

has apparently

woubt with Cuhangou

becaus anecher off. accusted his o

kenny ants-comm.

- cin souve reported that why had been

accused if propiliering on lycor red. af

a special puce at the Embassy; 2

squandering bes marcy a extravagant lenno,

prates; and that the killed a come.

bawd culcheed

SAC, mean

DIR, FBI

11-

29-60

105-84334-13

IS-CUBA

_ CIA

need what

operation.

beery used in

Report

12-21-60

Mrami

will , om P. Kelly

char: Is-CubA

title: Manuel Adaberto Anques

105-83117-65

DooId:32315281 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Report - FBI

12-21-60

105-83117-

lifo obtained fun two infoimants, MMT-I and

MMT-2.

two prisons, to joaquin de La Canad fa

jenes Perhomo, former official of the Coulto

до., and Jose Paz Novas, former t.

in Cuban Intellence Knoum as" G-2",

furnished sened statements identifying

Arqua do an inclagine agent are

• fa Juan Orta, sec. to Sidel Castro.

Ins, mami; staled had sulj. returned

to mami fum Harasa, 11-10-60, aplea

going to Cula but losing nein t to retuney

to meam;

now seling to coop with

U.s. gor.

on 11-14-60 Arques punished swon

platerent to Ins that the never acted

as an satell. agent of the present

Culan gov, but admilled mitig liter

to Orla re: Batista people.

saed he did not receen money on

inatritions from Orta.

DocId: 32315281 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

p. 4- Jose Joaqiu De La Caredad Sanjenis

i Persomo - voluntay statement-

fum Aug 1959 centel 572 1960-D, 1i

general of the tical decisily Dep't

I treasury - cubas gonenment.

ust dung januar

1960- u.s.

I Oct on Now 1959, in Harana,

Cuta

Castro, '

Juan Orca, the see to

pent him

about 3cm.4

ever him manuel acques. there

Cellen related to various pursmo

working for the dep't of treasy

who une suspected of malling

capacs against the gor of Cartro.

Onta cold hom

to imo. there persenally-

r specificall, he sup he can recall

Weat are of there litter mentined a

unman who verdued for the triceal

Jund of Public works in. Herons the

ent said she was parag frequently

bh Cuba, I teams and that pechaps

she wa carryay mersages of anti-

cactro elements, blen seami i Havana,

13 relatio to.

casperacies ajain't

Une goo of Cartro.

DocId: 32315281 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

p7.

en alone guest de coned.

manuel argues

also, in about oct-nor, 1959, a Cuban named

Frank Bestard, who sand he was working

for hail Crotco, toed them that Caques

was at that lome an agent in seami,

If, for Juan Outr.

also, a nan known as Mario Aguercherse,

ho world fo me in Sucal scurity

I Hasana, ted me about Aly, 1159,

that he was hamportay witten message

y Arques a is miami to arque in

Masand

Jose Pay Mores - T 41- 10-1160

103- 3-8-18- former It. is ua

G-2 of the Cular go 1 from Jan, 1959, untl

may 30, 1960.

- Pay states that during 159 and in 1960

mimates. +Cuba.

ship Orta bold hem in April, 560, that

in trami, FL.

DocId: 32315281 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC. 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

saup he als heard Ord lething same older

Cuten is Orla's quice that Orte wre

paying Arquest 250.00 / march for

unidlace work.

saup aques had a got as clack in thes

Holl american i miami during 1959

and feet part of 1960.

alo, about the end a 1959, Uke

Cmoul General of Cura, is miami, fion

uns. Lazcano, told we that

a Cuban female, the manage of la

Hoal smission America, and her

daughter, whon I do not Know by nase,

wee worlung under argues in the

malgent group of Orta.

aquets who ustressed there statements

Edivin L. Sweet, 50, FBI,

p.10

- FBI adrised chao Arques arsend in Miami

fion Havana, Cuta abrard Cubana Ostlines

flint 804 m 11-10-60.

Ike Barbrizon Apartowent statel -Oyuss

stated on 11-10-60 that he had gon

to Cura. to "resip," but lost has nerve

DocId: 32315281 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

p.l1..

rebumed to Cuto, I sms trelling" cosperatt

unch the United

United states goriment.

Arques gas a surom statement an 1114-68

ten Holly. to Ins, mane, sowed??.

shouldice

- Oyee pressudly made a statement ot

the INS oppin

8-3-60.

- Onues slated that he had bean in Curra

the last 2% months.

- soup he left cia because the country

was changing I becoming Communict

- sand he was offered a position in

Che touret Commission is Carla --

- stated had he was a long-time freed of.

Carlos Prio-said he nailed him

in cuba white he has there-

pit- paup that he provided info to the

Catio gor in 1959 emierning Batialo

who he vehemently.

pip-saup he sent the emp to DR. Orth -

sent it openly.

p. rp. sap he mere receired money from

juas Bita for info: (on pumanyone else).

says he didn't talk or ace fear Ditt

are the last serval incts.

DocId:32315281 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

p26 -

Kay he doesn't know who fore "Peppia".

sancher is.

says he knows mario Agueseberre- alre

seep he has were ben assoc nuth juar

dia so you as he Knous

fose A. Hippis" Sanchey has been sported

to be a Cutan agent.

abstement to the

P. stolloman.

232 soup that he more t consort of publicly

miami, Fl for a little les than are year;

he registered with the us fistice

Dip't as an agent of a foreyn principal

durn jan, 1960, in connectin with

job.

platly denin. ere being G-2 Man

intolligence agent for Juan Orta

say he sent nessages to Orta Chrough

Angel Banco, 11, "Chemoley", and

Carlos Hernandes who was assigned

to the Citan

Aii. Attacke's office

also set message to Orts througt

DocId:32315281 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Manuel I. Dray, former

Culana Onlines

Dormei emplane i.

Botello.

Une actorbe of Batistianos.

- denerary incudin by ba to sed

messages on oxy info.

- white Orta ssa in seamo in

Rec, 1959, Orquer Rawhen y voluntared

to and him inpo about Batistianos.

Onca apeed oly to accept such inf.

- canos edintite (unasle) any Cutan

aquite in the U.s

-

- dences ever seceiring any training?

instructios or overtatios in espiorage.

- meres balow an oald of allagiam

to Castro gorenment.

339- Arquer made a tup to NY. C in late

march, 1960; went here to investigal

repored macmduct of an imecalled

employu f CTC.

•43

MANUEL ADALBERTO ARQUES DIAZ

DuB

14-23-25

Plau

Havana, Cuta

б'0"

160/63

augu

DocId: 32315281 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

r.

natured US cilizes, natiralized us.

Soe see

Dishuck Caut, Lynchbeez, VA, 1949.

229-36-5431

ile

1960

CA 4-28

-78.

97-4196-18

4-18-60

. TO:

ER.:

Subj:

pincitor, CiA

TEH

The Fair Play Foi CuBA Committer

Regislation act -cuba

slate that bbe Bureau as 3-22-60

instituled on inut. y an ay. Knomas

He canmetter of Friends of Cuba

which may be identical with the

captored organizatios.

acob..com

un pormed to popularize lo

han ver. In the M.d.

1-97-4167 (Cmmittee if Friends y Cuta)'

- witter an the memo in lnghard is

the notation "to — Hairy

cia-4-18-60

DOP "

DocId: 32315281

Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-8-60

nemo por: Din, FAI

ATIN

Papich

97-4196-11

Subj: Fair Play fo Cuba Committee

- mentin ailached adritisement which

Grind N4 Tims

4-6-60-

-allention

ano to ISA releases

hat 14..

signed -

8-p-60

TO: DIR, CIs

FR: TEH

Subj:

105-80787-196

i Freate Rew. Dem.

(FRO)

- mentims the t

opecation of the CIA

whech is a cis operation diled

aspermit the last gone nment.

Bland bellertend

9-9-60

87-4368-3

то: sir, 610

"Cuban fell forety, sne

p. 2- mentions on island near Aslamorado,

called L

Ud bignemite eland, Whees caned

some sou ox cHA apertion.

DocId: 32315281 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released /under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

= mentors

opration

109-584-2008

9-22-60

TO: DiR

F1: JEH

Subj: Anti-Fidel set.

- mentions that

to the ciA a that

es of interes

wakey.

it an apecation

the

castro gorcinment.

sumed agam't

blankl lettukead тето

109-584-0053

10-18-60

To: Dir,ciA

ATEN: DDP

FN: ГЕН

anti Caste Act

IS-CUBA

follouring iptd by a soul who has not

been lasted but in the position to pranite

info on grancana:

accod to source, dung recent conc.

wik serial fronds, Grascan sador that

Fitel Cactio wa to be done ours, sut shortly.

sadd it would olm in. Normbes. moscroses,

o said he had already meet woth the

DocId: 32315281 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ass. to hi on 3 occacions, the last

talling place on a boat docked as

Me fan bles sal, munni Bene

I stated exrything had bee perfected

for sully Castro " that the "ass has

descuted, to drop a

in sen

dunk or pood of Castno.

sown as sand that & stated

Carho is in the alranced clay of syphills

this sens was sent to:

1) Anat chery of bat for Intell

Dep't of army

atl: secunty Dir

1) appe 1 Sp. Inut.

Ari Som

Oter: Chief, Counts rallyme Dir

2) Die of Naval intelligence

) ant al. General

J. walter

Leagley

1) Office of devich

Dep't if stato

DocId: 32315281

Page 23'

---

## Page 24

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2T07 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

blaull lettuhead

105-76826-17

10-21-60

TO: DIR, CIA

ATTN: DDP

FR: JEH

POI

(17K) 1/20/98

Jubi:

Manuel Antonio Verona

ASS

TED BY: 5668 SL0/GCL

1450

1.3

IS-CUBA

OSCLASCIRY ON: X. (6)

sale tat a souce who punished

releable impo si the past seed in 12-13-60

that he reed. unpo that effort are being

made by us. racketeers to financi

anti-castro out. in the hope of regaines, i

Old turf.

sowm said the data came poom william,

A. elman, who obtared if from

sarry tomlinsos, who was formedy the

Harand representative of Comminications

counselors, One, a subsidiary o

the McCann Euchamn Ad. Agency of NYC.

accord to sour, the Cellini brother

to put up Is millies for the support

al Varma.

internedrasy

No wash, s.c.

I Edisard k. moss.

Rptly, moss is

Publi Relations Counselor

uhose mustaas i julia Cellini

Tomlinson upt. refused to go along

with the acheroe.

DocId: 32315281

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOTE:

DocId: 32315281

Page 25

---

## Page 26

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Fire-sectl

C

marathined is room 8988 JEH

linited sato govenment

Memoradum

то: me. I'allier

January 9, 1961

109-584-2690

IS-CUBA

- Ref. as made to Miami lecter ded

Ди 28, 560.

Kiasion

1:25

CIA citechead memo

27 Dec 1960

TO Dincile, FBI

aun: Mr. rs. J. Papich

-105-95498-1

FR: ODP

Subj: Rene Neinez Berro

- states that are Rene. Nunez Berro,

a Campania Cubana de Arracion pilot,

то ло curnby en

are of the unduzion

groups, may be

a G-d agent.

DocId: 32315281 Page 26

---

## Page 27

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

blank lend memo

ТО: Дно ca

Fa: 5611

1-19-61

- mentions that subguts unt curealt

under sent by pot to det. mocrement

in chan intl actinhe s N. Y.C. (Where

she lives).

- the CIA learned that

the til dad

unpillated the cr.

then empersed that he

uas a ciA agent.

Cn now tryiny to ded. potenced for

loudle out.

thes mens then ha a sentence.

wellen so laghard whith saup".

es in harnesy

probably is

, program rich, tin,

douch america.

blaak letterhead,

ДАТЕ:

1-25-61

то: Dincou, CIA

alla: ODP

FA. JEH

fuh: Cutana Outines

- mentions that

a sonce to the

bureain is is the position to feunish

and: 'in.?

DocId: 32315281 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

aulina an fubts

which dipact on arive

чь тикте it

•stasema.

- the belan

is aking is the cat world whe auch.

matural

NOTE: the soner can acquire lus upo buf

it is not car y a decim was made

He he to ta to an as are -

ou Bureau, at lead)

- next pagi sap that souce is Alrian

Narango o te Operation Department, Cutora

Aula, smami, Ilocida.

FBI - lette -

1-30-61-R-Miami, Houda

105-95199-2

Ne: Francico Carbonell Alracey

- aul deed bereau as 1-18-19-61 the

following:

I sp.dancer ky nam

of Francie

- went to Cald in mauch, 1959, apte bery

way a while - casual acquantance of

Fidel Castro

well acquainted wth juan Dita

DocId: 32315281 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

states that cashes soila propsed thal he,

Cartonnell act as a clan agut t he agrisd

so do 20.

i-M fuly, 1959, Cartonnell came to the

u.s. antacted as an intelligen @gins

unes about for on Jeb. 1960

whes

the cared acting as an cynt barown

his sympa then changed. - his act.

centre a gacheung inpo as maferes

and melane Roberto Fernand miranda

- sometones he perniched into telephonically

to fear drea.

- assigned. code name A. Perez i Jesuo -

sled om wed the latter nase?

- coRalia

carbonel said that vern aple Castro

arumed parr be became acquainted with

maria Wrouska, a private secretary.

of Tell Cartio - she speaks appros

7 larquages, incuding Rusacao.

- carton all said de man in the ofpice of

Cartro m 3-22-60 , whuh wa cha

day aple 2 Am pilots, Shergalis 1

Rundquest, shad been shot down mer

Cura mill allerely are, sall

a Col. in the

af Cura.

DocId: 32315281

Page 29

---

## Page 30

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

could this he ite

Cen a coo

-Ruadquin

to ply fum miami to Cuba,

mall a lou pars ore a deagrated area of

Cuba, at wheel time phs to nosed he take

propagarda purposs - Custro ded not

phow abous the .

- mutalent shot don-

- Car mo prosed at Ora

United Mata memo 3-2-61

105-95645-2

mon

ГО:ДІА,КВІ

FRaNK BertOL

- samp proh.

in floula -

misining aims cra

prior 101-1-59; reportody had

emaco sitte Tampa area uho helped

him secure armo;

api for cula as

6-17-69 - has not returned -is

with Castro.

3-22-61

TO: DIRICIA

Attn: DDP

ER: JEH

Suly.

Culan gou in Enile

1.5 .

DooId: 32315281 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

- mentions that the CIA's

Castro may be implemented

program againt

at any time

u.8. gor memorandum,

то: Belmont

FR: R.. 0.

L' AlLier

3-28-61

hollanns at votintored to Papich by

who has seen insolsed is lite

Quection of the prozam, on mooch 27, 1961.

-projut now moring at a fart pace in reu

It compeded that conyme invoted in the propiif

in rague terms.

ful the propel-coued

he scratched despite go ahead

-h. camp in Guatemala completed -

personel ready to more- arrangemente

also made to acquire bases is Nicaragua -

(to be used as masion embarcation points).

_montions boat Cuton pot eile leader will meet

3-28 in Guatemala nich military leadies.

сів

па,

ben dealing rich

; a former

Balida

army spec in US. -saup that

DocId: 32315281

Page 31

---

## Page 32

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ha come up wit

arous 300

ex-culan onchba men.

to made cita- sa

I noreed ил утат

an a bau - could invade in west month-

cmpeded that thes

group could be need as a diversemany fore.

seed not volunter any up сту

the deadline for inasin baf said it

would not be for at least two more

weeks.

blaall lettehead

T0: ma L'Alllies

an Panich.

4-6-61

97-3962-12.

- the can had pier. adosed that thes

meht give

limited suppost rassetana

to the suhj;

sen on april 1, 1961;

C/A,.

told Liarom @gent brat lo

Aginey had changed its mind about

wth.

CiA,

a

an april 5,1961,

wed that the Aguy

was not have any further dealer with

the sul; - no details - her understanding

that CIA

world not deal wuch him berauce

many of the Cular eule distilled him

have of his assse tich Batiste.

DocId: 32315281

Page 32

---

## Page 33

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Blank culthead

TO: DiR, cia

ATIN: DDP

JEH

4-6-61

Subj:

105-89923-161

-rif (reliable) said an 4-4-61 that he harmed

fem memben of the MRP tat an imasios is

spaced to take place one by the and

o Hou well or early neit wreck.

ump, unf said bas.

ha heen working

closes mih CIA

greenly visited

en anti-castro camp in Guatemala vic

pican dun your agina.

Beard dellesherd

то: sir, cin

DDP

кл:

Subj:

4-18-061

105-89923-181

the fallouing info:

113-61 on set inf. (reliable) furnished

joseph 1. Mecola, a neini hoodlum,

rently claimed he was Coneded with the CrA

I had are to equipment (arms. This ther

suy purinted to anti castro groups.

DocId: 32315281 Page 33

---

## Page 34

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• внет.

i medle said he had tolen several cuto slaricens

from then equipment. Laid he an fending thea

urages to variou hoodlum see aspirtne

por 500 лал.

almed that. it does not have

an eating even nerved, bu

merrea splud

- on 4-13-61, a source affitiated such the

FRD in miami, adrsed lat merla

was noring on the "Terry inart"

, a boat

ruined by (MAR), a soup appelated with FRD.

DocId: 32315281

Page 34

---

## Page 35

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Year 19681

lectior 2

- mantral in room 8988 JEH

Memorindum

6-6-61

To: m L'allier

Fp:

Papich

105-57681-50

sely: frow Orta

-mentions that aild had defected; saip

What Ore is stell in strand lenny' in

no of lte detia Amercan co bassies whee

he delacred asylum. CiA recened a

upt that he may atlawn a safe-conduct

report which would allow hem to lease

in country

-

105-89923--202

6-23-61

}

TO: DIR, CIA

ATTNi DOD

FR. JOH

- FBI sip that it is than understadly tha

a number yy indendual, abut 50,

Katel the tning camps conected mela

keed on into on lo

present whereabout of there persons t

enge 6 cocering whelke taly as

pid castro. or not.

DocId: 32315281 Page 35

---

## Page 36

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 21UT Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

6-8-61

105-89923-123

IR: SAL, mismi

mentions tal the FBI should ach la

CrA po mpormation a lter 8 50 or do

intendual kelend to has deserted la

Pad

the uturned to us.

Memranuns

TO: DIRCITOR,FRI

F8: SAL, DALLAS

9-05-61

108194565-13

- crn sonce coid that sily? sister

Jild that suk, man a merker of Citen. Or.

while.aperatig under.com ofa

counte resolutionary.

- should he noted- all of sul' sister;

mcp me, is dalla aca..

DocId: 32315281 Page 36

---

## Page 37

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

002.

CIA LIASON MATERiOL YUAN 1962-

macatained in Room 8988.

5OCA4-2818

- nothing of segripicance in thes volume

CIA LiASON MATERIAL - 1962 volume 50J 8

41-28-78

maintained in room 8988

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL VEER 1963 MASCA 4-28-78 :

marbard is boom 8988

volumed ys

ils. Memorandum

3-31-63

-

то: W.C. Sullivan

109-584-3502

FR: W.R. Wannall

Subj: Anti-cactio Acterleos in the iS.

W: a emperence held an 3-30-63 huds

ducend has to stop cold" the raids

Is Cuhan group agent cura and ha

to Keep lore raido to a minium on a

lang teen bacis.

Border Paccol,

INS, FBI, and and

here tie vale State.

DocId:32315281 Page 37

---

## Page 38

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

p4 - those present

Sterling Cottrell-Strate

D.C. ELLis. -Cuntons

Capt Grage Reynoeds-CC

J. Waltu Yearley-AG

Demand Fitzgual-CIA

14.Col. Richard. L. Roble

Col. Boyf - Army

•It. Commander J.W. WitSCh-NAUBL

intelligene

wannall - Section Chuf-FDI

4-23-63

105-7-010-2555

TO: DiReCTOR

FBI

K1: DOP.

(нет)

Suty:

- also ail the Brean's interest

Bean delutead-secret -

TO: DIR, CIA

11-22-63

105-8078-1789

ATTN: DDD

FA:

FETI

Subj: Culan Actintes in the United Hote

15- Cuba.

u: FBI allempt. to identity people in

BY LIAIS

DocId: 32315281 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

cacds in rot perrns who aue on who dar bee

of operational interest.

NOTE: Classified"Secet" because it shou

FBI has into an aguts sent to Us by Cular gon

I becave is how that there pesos an

operating against Curan gor. - all case mentioned

In the eclochend mens a cument docle.

aguns except one - the peese was

bunt ore to the can And is now workin

for them sost de Outs- want to edentidy

pers in contret such the double agit-

enclovise

11-21 - 031

BYLIAISON

"For the purposes of clarly the sely mentined

velon чле не герегко ю а. А, В, С, Д, Е, К

G, and 4.

-and. Intolsed in the scruitend

nell be numbered crecutinly."

- goes on to fun descuptens of the contine to;

aver not reveal who the dentle agent au.

us. gov memoondum

то: mr. D. J. BRENNoN, I Ri

FER.

ma. S. J. PaDicH

Subj:

inu

RSI - CuBA

8-8-63

105-107868-27

DocId: 32315281 Page 39

---

## Page 40

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CIs, adased PaRich in

6-63:

CiA has no Obfution medi de Bureau!

contreling the indendid is Mere City - is

cmail resets i propored meting in mox cals, S

de sure to be inpormed quor to meetes- a

armed lhat the ClA hould he no out,

passible chat tit meting tater Is ahe

Cuten actinly of entours to ciA,

Miser said CIA noned he woo it

intrated is result of any techis it they

tootle place.

DocId: 32315281

Page

40

---

## Page 41

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

as a recuet of the emn, Coltil

planned oll to free & specifer thiag

disgued to stop the

Jeand to land.

wards been wed t

auchordy to present Calon pete

pacole fim larry the coenry;

31 to insulute Coars Guard surveillance.

y precently susputed reseld:

4) to peenet INs to dese pacolles

wolved in side for delentios can

surce of presention of depattin

notices;

5) to nana sule leader thans the Pres

rants the racke to ceme;

b) to usue a for policy statement

against the racks;

7)

to alady the questin 8

promuting

educate arrestig x

engage in rand forazs; k

to harase repegus

subjecting then

by

to -phy-surveillane

manner that they would

lace thy a are belly walitie

(NOTE:" "hararsing phiyscal

siveillances" Ded not meet with

faror 1. FBI well not indulge. in

•achinee!

DocId: 32315281 Page 41

---

