# docid-32115450

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the

John

F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992 144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130

Date: 06-01-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10006-10292

RECORD_SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

62-6115-519

• DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. CG

TO: SAC. DL

TITLE:

DATE: 04/15/1964

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 89-43-3861

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

03/26/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/16/2000

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC A/T, ADMIN PAGE, INTV, INSERT

NW 53130 DocId: 32115450 Page 1

---

## Page 2

4/15/64

REELD OF

AIRTEL

.. 6-19-99803-Rad/GAT

TJFK

TO

: SAC, DALLAS (89-43)

FROM

: SAC, CHICAGO (62-6115)

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN P. KENNEDY, 11/22/63,

DALLAS

THAS

MISCILLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

SEXIET

Do Dallas airtal to the Directos datod 3/17/64.4

Enclosed herewith are 25 copios onch of the

t0ll0w1ag;

1.

Insert entitled Pollah Bonation to the

AmBassInatIon of President JOiN Y. KENNEDY;

2.

FD-302 Intorvion concorning the Pollah

SOROtIOn tO thO ABBABSIDAtION OL INSIdeN

JOHN T. KENNEDY,

3. Administrativo 1asort pago Ident1fylas

source furniahing the abovo inforsat1on. MU

It should be soted that the information contadned

In the enslosed TD 302 mas originally turnlahou to ta

surenu in a LHI and carriod the clannification "BECRET. » U

017-79

CLASS, & EXT. BI

REASON-TOT! II,

PATE OF REVIER Y

2 - Dallas (EDO], 75) (BM)

1 - Chicago

5 - 34

SECRET

(3)

62-6115-519

Searched

S.:!

Inc

Filed

NW 53130 DocId: 32115450

Page 2

---

## Page 3

==

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVES. SATION

Date

April 13, 1964

5668510/6c1

3/5/47

C...

.S

RET

On November 24 and 25, 1963, an individual who

requested his identity not be divulged but who has furnished

reliable information in the past, advised that on November

23, 1963, he had met in New York City with BOHDAN LENANDOWSKI,

Polish Ambassador to the United Nations (UN), and MANFRED

LACHS, Special Advisor for Disarmament Matters to the Polish

Foreign Minister.

LACHS and LEWANDOWSKI opened a discussion

or the assassination of President KENNEDY, and questioned

the source concerning the reaction of people in the United

States.

The source advised the Poles that there was real

shock and dismay within intellectual circles concerning. the

LACHS and LEWANDOWSKI then commented that the

assassination was a disaster and as its result, the

future was very uncertain. LEWANDOWSKI commented that

his first reaction to the assassination was the possibility

of a military coup d'etat in the United States; however,

LACHS had convinced him that such a reaction was unfounded

and based on a lack of knowledge of the American political

system. p(V)

LACHS and LEWANDOWSKI then discussed the

inefficiency of the Dallas Police Department, and commented

that the Chief of Police in Dallas had impressed them on

his television interviews as being "an incompetent idiot."

LACES commented that the arrest of LEE OSWALD and his identifica

tion as a communist was probably a whitewash by the inefficient

Police Department to dig up a scapegoat for the incident, and

LACHS compared the arrest of OSWALD to the SACCO and VANZETTI

LACHS commented that no disciplined communist could

have committud the assassinatios, since it was contrary to

the interests of KHRUSHCHEY as there was no alternative in

the United States as good as President KENNEDY. fU

LACHS and LEWANDOWSKI appeared very shocked by

the incident and commented that as a result of the

assassination, they were very uncertain of the future and

On

11/24 & 25/63

Evanston,

Illinois File #

CG 62-6115

by

SA WILLIAM E. DUFF/rms

-a-

_Date dictated _ 11/25/63

your deue it and incontent co not to be l no cod lual you the , l' 1a the proporty of the FBI. and la loaned i

NW 53130 DocId: 32115450 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONHOERTAL

1

CG 62-6115

WED/ rmS

SEABER,

The source who requested his identity not be

divulged and who furnished information concerning a

Matters to the Polish Foreign Minister,

rurashed the information on November 24 and 25

tOM:

SEXRET

-5-

H# 53130 DocId: 32115450

Page

---

