# docid-32359523

## Page 1

Date:

01/27/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10113-10241

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the

John

*. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

TO : DD/SECURITY

: INCIDENT REPORT RE JOHN E. DONOVAN ACQUAINTANCE WITH

LEE HARVEY, OSWALD.

DATE: 12/01/1963

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECIS : OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

JOHN DONOVAN

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 07/24/93

SLIP ATT.

JFK41 : F24: 1993.07.24.10:57:51:430470 : ROUTING

TRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10113-10241

HH

53294

DocId: 32359523

Page

---

## Page 2

SENDER WILL CHECK CLA!

FICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

SECRET

C/SRS:

12-313

INITIALS

PF%

TO

1

2

3

4

5

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Mr. Solie was verbally informed of this

contact by NSO Moretti at 0900 hours on 2 December

19630

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

77 FiON, YUE ADDRESS AND PHONE NOS

DATE

Chief, Building Security Branch

3Dec63

UNCLASSIFIED

I * CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

FORM NO. 237

Use previous editions

(40)

& U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0- 587282

HW 53294 DocId: 32359523 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

FROM:

INCIDENT REPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE _

TIME _

1 December 1963

1030

NAME -

John E. Donovan

2009 Belmont Rd. N. Wo

Washington 9, D. C.

INCIDENT_

Telephone call

GRADE

WA

Tele: 332-7727

_ TIME _

0937

OFFICE -

N/A\

PLACE

Washingtos, Do C.

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he knew and worked wit

Lee Harvey Oswald for a nine month period while fulfilling his military

obligation in the Spring, Sunner and Fall of 1959.

Donovan advised he may

possibly be of assistance in providing names and etc. of Oswalds intimate

acquaintances during that period. Subject further advised that he has not

discussed his knowledge of Oswald with the FBI or the Secret Service as of this

Donovan is presently attending Georgetown University while teaching at

Ascension Academy•

He may be contacted any evening after 6:00 P.M. at the

above address.

Donovan related that he is a former FBI employee having worked

there from June 1953 to 1956. It is also noted that advance knowledge of this

call was received from NSO John Moretti and Major A. F. Boland, Agency employees,

who are both members of Capt. John E. Donovan's USNCR unit.

ACTION TAKEN:

Contacted Charlie Kane, OS, tho requested that this report

be prepared and submitted so that the lead may be turned

over to the FBI through official channels.

Joseph W. Griffir

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy C/SRS

FORM 1798

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 53294 DooId:32359523 Page 3

---

