# docid-32339801

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90152-10020

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-184784-1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:M 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SJ

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

08/22/1968

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32339801

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SJ 105-10960

Latest OI investigation regarding subject con-

tained an OI memo dated 1/13/66 which indicates

that the

subject was President of Alpha 66 in Puerto Rico, but that

he is presently out of politics, and is employed promoting

boxing matches. U

on 8/13/68, records of NISO, San Juan,

Pue:

sto Rico,.

as reviewed by SA JAMES E. KING reflected the following

informatIon:

In mid-October, 1965, ANTONIO CARLOS VECIANA

BLANCH, a leader of Alpha 66 who arrived in Miami from

Puerto Rico, said that in early October a group of Cuban

emigres met in Puerto Rico in an effort to unite inactive

naria Cubana (Cuban

nized the meeting, VECIANA, MANUEL RAY RIVERD leader of

JURE, and RUFO LOPEZ FRESQUET X RUIZ,

a member of JURE.

AURELIA NAZARIO/ SARGENT,

a leader of the Segundo Frente

Nacional del Escambray (Second National Front of the Escam-

bray) (SFNE), refused to participate because he believes

that the United States Government has selected the SFNE to

form a government in Cuba when FIDEL CASTRO RUZ is no longer

in power.

According to VECIANA,

the attempted unification

effort was foredoomed because neither RAY nor LOPEZ will

join a group which he cannot lead.

The following sources have been contacted regarding

subject with negative results:

Source

SJ 420-S

SJ 346-S

x SJ 654-5

SJ 627-5

PSI(UD) ENRIQUE

GONZALEZ GIRIBET

Date

7/24/68

8/6/68

8/7/68

8/7/68

Agent

SA GEORGE F. CANNON, JR.

SA CLOHERTY

SA JOSEPH KAY BROOKS

8/8/68

on 8/7/68, PSI(UD) CARLOS LOPEZ LAY advised as

follows:

Source stated that he is a close friend of VECIANA

and that

VECIANA is presently in Bolivia working for the

NES

REVIEWED BY-BBUJFK TASK FORCE

-2-

ON

1/10/93 dah

CONFR

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

D

TOTAL DENIAL

P

NW 54462 DooId:32339801

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SJ 105-10960

SAN JUAN

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

I. Will check records of DMV. L

2.

Will check records of the Commonwealth

Department of State.

3.

Will maintain contact with PSI(UD) CARLOS

LOPEZ LAY.

-4*-

countenan

HH 54462

DocId: 32339801

Page 3

---

