# docid-32308439

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10294-10297

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-80115-4TH NR 14, 5TH NR 14

Document Information

Released under the John

.. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

cased iNH 54460 Date:

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MDL, PDL, ASSOC, ACA, BOAT, RAID, CUBA, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

- OPENING CRITÈRIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

v9.1

NY 51460

DocId: 32308439

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FIBERAL BUREAU DE

IVESTICATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS.

Sechlol

APR

11963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO TELETYPE

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 10:10-41

Nir. Tolson

: Is, Balmont

sil Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLach.

Mr. Erans.

Mr.

Mir. Rar

ti?.

1ir.

"avel

Mir. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

4-1-63

8-28

EST

RGT

TO DIRECTOR / 105-72630/

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

FROM - SACE MIAMI / 105-1598/

2 P

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZE IS DASH CUBA.

010:17-9428952 мск

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU MARCH TUENTYSIX LAST.

ON MARCH THIRTY DASH THIRTYONE, LAST, INSy MIAMI, SERVED

PEDRO DIAZ LANZ, MARCOS DIAZ LANZ, RAFAEL INCLAN ANGUDIN,

SALVADOR GARCIA OLLER AND JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO WITH QUOTE

NOTICES OF PREVENTION OF DEPARTURE AND AMENDMENT TO CONAITIONS OF

PAROLE UNQUOTE

TODAY, MM SIX THREE FIVE DASH S, WHO IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WH

VITH THIS GROUP, ADVISED THAT AFTER BEING SERVED WITH ABOVE

NOTICES, PEDRO AND HIS ASSOCIATES EXPRESSED: DETERMINATION TO

CARRY OUT THEIR PROPOSED RAID AGAINST CUBA, EVEN IF IT MEANT

QUOTE GOING TO THE ELÉCTRIC CHAIR UNQUOTE, AS PEDRO DIAZ

EXPRESSED IT. DIAZ ALSO REMARKED THAT U. S. AUTHORITIES WOULD

HAVE TO SINK HIS BOAT TO STOP HIM: INFORMANT STATED THAT

CHANNEL FOUR AND CHANNL SEVEN TELEVISION OFFICIALS CAVE

HOME OF PEDRO DIAZ SUNDAY AFTERNOON, AT WHICH

END PAGE ONE

*Joseph beft.

tong

769

62 AP 15 1963 Greg: Belon

RECORDED

162 APR. 9419637

HH

54460 0001d: 32308439

Page 2

ED

185-72638-80

---

