# docid-32294753

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

• Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10029

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

26-425045-3

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SWANDA, JAMES A.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/22/1971

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

SCOTT, LARRY DEAN, SENTENCED, AR, ASSOC, THEFT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32294753

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LR. 26-26128

For the information of Portland, referenced report

indicated that a 1969 Caveman Motor Lodge

and a 1969 Ford

pickup truck, VIN P40CLES90999, were stolen Grants Pass,

Oregon, July 21, 1969.

Original report re this matter

designated 1969 Ford pickup truck with above VIN as vehicle

number 9.

Hereand after the 1969 Caveman Motor Lodge will be

designated vehicle

number 10.

Handwriting examinations of Alabama registrations

are not being requested at this time due to the fact that

the only submissible document containing pertinent handwriting

would be a copy of

the third copy of the registration papers.

On January 28, 1971, PCI LEROY JACKSON advised that

he had been unable to determine any information concerning a

1969 green Chevrolet long wheel base pickup truck supposedly

in the possession of E. P. WILLIAMS.

On February 8, 1971, PCI LEROY JACKSON advised

that an individual whose name

is unknown to him did live

in an apartment at the Catfish Cove during the time E? P.

WILLIAMS was supposedito

¡ be in possession of this truck.

Although he does not know this individual's name, he does

know that he was previously employed by GRIFFIN Chevrolet

Company, El Dorado, Arkansas, and has recently moved to

Crossett, Arkansas. He believes that this individual' may

be able to furnish some

information concerning the pickup

truck.

The delay in typing of. FD-302 due to a stenographic

delinquency in the Little Rock Division which has been

reported to the Bureau.

• On December 4, 1970, J. A. GRAHAM (PROTECT IDENTITY),

Postmaster, U. S. Post Office, Reform, Alabama, advised there

is no LARRY B. ADAMS residing

nected with this family. He advised Route 2, Box 79, is

assigned to LAWRENCE CARPENTER and advised to the best of his

knowledge there is no LARRY B. ADAMS related in any way to

this family.

C

COVER PAGE

HW 54027 DocId: 32294753 Page 2

---

