# docid-32316616

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10350-10058

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 2-1846-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE : 02/19/1964

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO; INC LHM, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

| WW 54161

DocId: 32316616

23

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• FROM

SUBJEC

OPTIONAL, FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-108-03

GSA GET REG. NO. €7

UNITED STATES GO. RNMENT

Memorandum

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

Director, FBI

RELEASE GE LIA IS-ORMATIONTE:

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

FE3 1 9 1964

SAC, Miami (2-365) (C) KP 1-15-98

place are in

sast

CHANGE]

PRONALD

VON KLAUSSEN, aka.

Ronald von Klarssen

NEUINAL

MATTERS

2-1813 (Amora Prise Bati

-1449.

classified by SD8 MACILse

Declassily on: DADR

The title of this case is changed to include

subject's alias/of, RONALD VON KLARSSEN as set forth in

FBi/ Identification record #886 890 c.

129210

Re New York airtel 1/21/63 and New York letter

2/3/64

and, Bureau letter 1/31/64.

UGLASSHED BY 5648 ELD/KSR

2-13-98

Enclosed are 12 copies of LHM dated and cape

JFK.

tioned_

as.

above.

Copies are being disseminated local ly to LCIA,

(и)

ONI, G-2,

INS, OSI, Border Patrol, Customs, Coast Guard

and State Department, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs.

On February 7, 1964 Mr. JOSEPH VIDAL, Covert,

813-

CIA, Miami, advised that agency had no operational inter-

est in the subject or the Antonio Maceo Battalion and

had sponsored no military training.!

VB0Q4

copies nade

SIFIED

AMOHS

MM T-1 is MM 639-S.

MM T-2 is GENNARO CIANELLI,

the New York Office

6080

Bureau (ENCLE

012) (RM)

New York

2

- Miami n-2

1365)

RJD : JMS

NEÔF

T6K 848

INDEFINITE

846-

SE

REG- 56

8 FEB 24 1964

Copy

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for info

Date. 3.B/0L

by It don

iv. Customs DiA John

secret See Crimmin

condinati

Caban allers,

Scal

14 54464

DooId: 32316616

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• MM 2-365

Inasmuch as subject is reportedly unreliable›

menta ty unstable, psychotic and incompetent, the

Miani Office is making no request for authority to

interview him. His actions can easily be followed and

reported on by MM 639-S.

Inasmuch as information furnished by MM T-2

is basically a U.S. Customs matter, this information is

being disseminated locally to Customs and this case is

being closed.

Further information concerning the subject

will be reported in case

entitled ANTONIO MADEO BATALLION:

IS - CUBA: RA - CUBA.

2

CS0

320-10021,

HH 54464 DooId: 32316616 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JÚSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEB 1 9 1964

Miami, Florida

RONALD VON KLAUSSEN, also

known as Ronald Von Klarssen

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

SEC

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(JFK)

On July 8, 1963, RONALD VON KLAUSSEN, 1612

• Michigan Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida, telephone number

JE 8-4937; appeared at the Miami Office of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation and stated he is a member of

the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post #1608, located

at 1608 S.W. 27th Avenue, Miami, Florida. He stated that

this VFW Post had undertaken the task of

training a group

of Cuban exiles known as the Antonio Maceo Battalion.

VON KLAUSSEN said that according to one of the officers

of the Post, the training is being sponsored by Central

Intelligence Agency: (CIA). $

VON KLAUSSEN said he had also been advised that

the names and photographs of all Cubans being trained

were being forwarded to the FBI for clearance.

VON KLAUSSEN continued that he is presently

providing some of the instruction for the Cubans. He

said he is concerned that his name and photograph would

be forwarded to the FBI, because about ten years ago he

was convicted of attempted assault in New York City.

MM T-1, who has been involved in Cuban revolu-.

tionary activities for the past two years, advised on

August 6, 1963 that RONALD VON KLAUSSEN, 1612 Michigan

Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida, had recently contacted

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, Miami, Florida.

/ MM T-1 explained

A23

OUTAENED

•EJRIED

SNOWL

PETI

CLOLACE

113018

NW 54464 DooId: 32316616 Page 4

---

## Page 5

RONALD VON KLAUSSEN

HEMMING is an adventurer, mercenary and soldier of

fortune, who has been involved in Cuban revolutionary

activities for the past 4 years. VON KLAUSSEN told

HEMMING he was then attempting to purchase arms for Cuban

revolutionists in Miami and that he had funds available

to make these purchases.

On August 8, 1963, MM T-1 advised that HEMMING

and his group of mercenaries and adventurers had concluded

VON KLAUSSEN is completely unreliable, mentally unstable

and psychotic. VON KLAUSSEN claimed that he could ob-

tain thousands of Sten guns from Canada, was going to

buy some B-29 war surplus airplanes, and that he was

step sung

going to bring this great quantity of arms and other

materials to Miami.

MM T-1 stated that HEMMING and his group have

been trying to deal in arms for a long time and know

the difficulty there is in trying to locate even a small

quantity of small arms. VON KLAUSSEN has recently

become Military Instructor with the Antonio Maceo

Battalion and hangs around the VEW Post located at 1608

S.W. 27th Avenue, Miami.

On September 24, 1963, MM T-1 advised that

VON KLAUSSEN had recently been seen with another American

and again stated he was then interested in purchasing arms.

The other American wer Identified only as ANCAPA.

FLA

On October 13, 1963, RONALD VON KLAUSSEN, 1612

Michigan Avenue, Miami Beach, was interviewed in connec-

tion with another matter. VON KLAUSSEN volunteered he

was a former U.S. Army Airborne Ranger and served with

- 2 -

NW 54464 DooId: 32316616 Page 5

---

## Page 6

RONALD VON KLAUSSEN

unidentified representatives of the MRR told VON KLAUSSEN

that they were interested in purchasing automatic weapons,

had funds available but were unable to locate any such

weapons. VON KLAUSSEN immediately recontacted HEMMING,

advised him of the situation and the opportunity to earn

a profit by obtaining automatic weapons, and selling

them to the MRR. HEMMING immediately contacted different

friends and sources of arms, but was unable to locate any

automatic weapons.

On November 21, 1963, MM I-I advised that VON

KLAUSSEN recently contacted SANTIAGOXALVAREZ, 541 N.W.

45th Avenue, Miami. ALVAREZ is the head of Comendos L,

an anti-CASTRO organization that has conducted raids

against Cuba in the past. VON KLAUSSEN told ALVAREZ that

he had a source who produced a compound called Thermite,

which compound burns at a very intense heat and could

be used for sabotage. ALVAREZ stated he was interested

in purchasing this material but at the present time could

not afford it and did not have adequate funds to make

any purchases of this type.

MM T-1 explained that Thermite is made by

LARRY

DE JOSEPH, who operates a general store at Sweet-

water g

Florida,. and who is a friend and associate of

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING.

On January 9, 1964, MM T-l advised that there

has been a split in the Antonio Maceo Battalion and

VON KLAUSSEN

continues as a training instructor for one of

the factions.

On January 20, 1964, MM T-2, an American, ad

vised he had been in Miami, Florida, for about seven

- 5 -

FLAi

NW 54464 DooId: 32316616 Page 6

---

