# docid-32322444

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

• 3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10379-10235

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-461

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KC

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/15/1998

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322444

344

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

(01/26/1998)

i .

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: ROUTINE

LIO?

OPCA

Date: 06/15/1998

Attn:

MS. CATHERINE LAMEY

JFK TASK FORCE

ROOM 11144

From: KANSAS CITY

SQUAD 10

Contact: Diane M.

Approved By: Steck Kevin B/

Hartman 816-691-8322

Drafted By: Hartman Diane M: amh

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205-461

Title: JOHN F. KENNEDY RECORDS COLLECTION

ACT OF 1992 (THE ACT)

Synopsis: The JFK Task Force requested each Field Office to

conduct a new indices search for any

•additional information

related to President John F. Kennedy's assassination that may

have been placed on record since the previous search.

Enclosures: Enclosed for FBIHQ are 24 books and one volume of

the main Report titled "The President's Commission on the

Assassination of President Kennedy"

Details:

enclosed 24 books and main volume of the Report of

"The President's Commission on the Assassination of President

Kennedy", were inadvertently located in the steno pool in a file

cabinet in the Kansas City Division. Apparently, the books were

placed in the cabinets years ago for storage and were not labeled

as the volumes were public source information. The contents of

the cabinets were being boxed up in anticipation of the move of

the Kansas City Division and therefore, these items are being

forwarded to FBIHQ for review.

Kansas City does not request the return of these books.

DocId: 32322444 Page 2

---

