# docid-32304098

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10285-10110

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 92-3489-17

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BUOL. FREDERICK W.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1960

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: BBA, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45703 DocId: 32304098 Page 1

---

## Page 2

JK 92-31

INFORMANT SOURCES:

Jacksonville Informant T-l is JK 6-C whose identity

is known to the Bureau.

Jacksonville Informant T-2 is

PCI, Jacksonville Division, who in the past has furnished

reliable information.

Jacksonville Informant T-3 is

numbers man and gambler, PCI, Jacksonville Division.

Jacksonville Informant T-4 is

prostitute

and bar waitress, Daytona Beach, Florida, who has specifically

requested that her identity remain anonymous..

She has in the

past furnished reliable information.

Jacksonville Informant T-5 is JK 3-C whose identity

is known

to the Bureau.

Jacksonville Informant T-6 is ERNEST MINKLEY,

Office Manager, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company,

Daytona Beach, who has specifically requested his identity

be protected, and who in the past has furnished reliable

information.

Confidential Informant Omaha T-l is

PCI, Omaha Division, who in the past has furnished reliable

information.

an the mat on has la cellable

PCI,

information.

Confidential Informant Kansas City T-l is

a PCI of the Kansas City Office, who has furnished

reliable information in the past.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Letterhead Memorandum evaluating informants

submitted with report.

OTHER 4

- B*-

COVER PAGE

583-10110

NW 45703 DocId: 32304098

Page 2

---

