# docid-32290628

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10205-10404

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-238

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 09/20/1961

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

CM, ASSOC, REL, SUMMARY, TELCAL, RCK, EVID,

GREETING CARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ, IRS

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO DOJ, IRS, INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32290628

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the igh

DATE: 11-14-2017

Inati

1992

107 Hote)

1, 3,4,

September

1961

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan -

Conrad -

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

javel

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

BoRN 1I-8-04, nacheespertipa:

On July 7, 1961, Edwyn Silberling,

Chief, Organized

Crime and Racketeering Section, Criminal Division, Department

released from the

allegedly

contacted Card Irving

witness under subpoena

for the U. S. Government in the

• Narce11o case in Washington, D. C

Goldberg reportedly told Noll to contact Jack Wasserman,

Washington, D. C.,

attorney for Marcello,

It is alleged by

Noll, the source

of this information, that he also told Noll,

"You

have been talking," that Goldberg had received money from

Frank Costello, New York racketeer, and that Costello "will take

care of you."

Goldberg allegedly indicated Noll should go to

Chicago where he would receive money fron Costello.

Goldberg

left Washington for Chicago to begin employment on July 10 with

the Big Four Clothing Co., 63rd and Ashland Streets, Chicago.

Noll

is in fear of his personal safety.

A

pretext telephone call on July 9, 1961, to Frank

Costello,

5 Barkers Point Road, Sands Point,

New York, indicated

Costello planned to be at his residence at Sands Point on the

weck-ends and at his family residence, 115 Central Park West,

York City, during the weekdays in

the immediate future.

had

no present intentions of traveling to Chicago.

He

check of Dun and Bradstreet records, Chicago,

Illinois,

July 10, 1961, indicated the Big Four Clothing Co., is

partnership which deals in men's clothing.

This firm has

stores, one at 1157-59 West G3rd Street, and the other at

both in Chicago, Illinois.

are

Partners

6301-05 South Ashland Avenue, in Russla in 1894, and Seymour ,

Banjamin Itzkovitz, born

Kovitz, born in the United States

in 1917.

The firm maintains

four employees.

9130161

Neve

-T'LG: bra d

(6)

DEP

2713.

2N2

SFP

2 7 1961

MAIL ROOM

COPIES

Мцу

DESTROY

REG- 30

SEP 2/ 1961

TELETYPE

238

DocId: 32290628

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

Carlos Marcello

The records of U. S. Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg,

Pennsylvania, were reviowed on July 10, 1961.

Theodore Goldberg,

FBI No. 700132A, U. S. Nep No. 24164-N5, was conditionally

released from this institute on July 4, 1961. He was sentenced

on Hay 15, 1957,

counts for a total

by telephone, fraud in interstate comerce and false pretenses.

Goldberg was

committed on June 11, 195%. His parole supervision

ends November 17, 1962.

According to these records, Goldberg was granted

permission, upon his release for a

two-day layover in

Washington,

D. C., g

froute to Chicago to visit his son and ex-vife Amelia

Wiseman,

*Dorchester Apartments, 2480 16th Street, N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

In connection with his probation, he

be under the supervision of U. S. Probation Officer

• Ben Meeker

at Chicago and to be employed by

"S. J. Cavitz," Big Four

Clothing Co., Ashland Avenue, and 63rd

Street, Chicago.

These records describe Goldberg as white, male, born

November 8, 1904, Mckeesport,

Pennsylvania, 5 feet

7 inches,

172 pounds, brown hair and brown eyes.

prison orticinis at

U. S. Penitentiary,

Lewisburg, have described Goldberg as a

"weasel" and "errand boy" for

inmates of greater stature;

During his

tenure at the penitentiary, he was an associate of

Sam Katz, convicted Newark racketeer:

On July 14, 1961,

Ar. Silberling of the Department of

Justice,

advised that Carl Irving Noll has been maintained by

Internal Revenue Service at the Admiral Hotel, Washington, D. C

since the alleged contact by Goldberg.

Noll informed Internal

Revenue Service Agents on July 14, 1961, that he had observed

Pete Marcello of

New Orleans, Louisiana, who is a brother of

Carlos Marcello, cruising in a black and white Cadillac in the

vicinity of the Admiral Hotel on this date.

The license number

of this automobile allegedly was CS 150, Washington, D. C.

In addition it was alleged

that

Noll had

made a collect phone

call from

Washington, D. C., number

20282, to the phone

listed at

1308 Sth Avenue,

Talls, Pennsylvania:

2

DocId: 32290628

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017,

Carlos Marcello

Internal Revenue Service Agents caught Noll making a phone

call and he claimed he was calling this residence in an

attempt to contact his mother.

This call could have been

made to

elther Tillie Noll or Mildred Mann.

The records of D. C. Registration were reviewed

for information concerning the issuance of 1961 Washington,

D. C., license CE 150.

It was determined there were no

licenses issued in Washington, D. C.,

with the prefix letters

Ca.

GE 150 was issued for a 1954 Pontlac and Ge 150 was

issued for a 1956 Ford.

On August 31, 1961, William Meredith, Bell Telephone

Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, advised on a confidential

basis that no toll or

collect calls were made during, Jury;

1001, 10 13Iton 33343, the phone listed to Bruce L. Grant.

8th Avenue i

Jais ennsylvania,

and there

no record of any calls having been made to

this number from

Adams telephone exchange, Washington, D. C. There is no

listing for a telephone for Tillie Noll or a Mildred mann.

carl trius tory naunte, tho possibi, are relatives

Investigation by our New Orleans Division established

that Peter Marcello was in New Orleans, Louisiana, on July, 11,

1961.

U. S. Probation Officer;

Kenneth O. Whitmore, Chicago,

Illinois, advised on July ll, 1961, that Goldberg was under his

supervision.

Whitmore was pleased with Goldberg's progress and

praised his sales ability.

He verified that Goldberg was

employed by the Big Four Clothing Co., Chicago, Illinois.

Goldberg was residing at Room 821, Sheridan Plaza Hotel, Chicago,

Illinois, and was expected to bring hie

wife and son to Chicago

in the near future to "start a new life."

Inquiry at the Sheridan Plaza Hotel indicated

Goldberg made four calls

to sho

to Washington, D. C., number 234-7886

on July 7, 8, 9 and ll, 1961, and

one cald to Buffalo, New York,

No local phone calls were

number Ir 5-4751 on July 11' chat Goldberg had received no mail

Inquiry established

arriving at the hotel. No visitors have been noted by

employees at the hotel.

DocId: 32290628 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

Carlos Marcello

On July 12, 1961, Mr. Herbert J, Miller, Assistant

Attorney General, Department of Justice, advised that

Carl Irving

learned off a card which was written by

Goldberg and mailed to Sam Ratz,

an inmate in the Federal

Penitentiary at Lewisburg,

, pemsylvania:

Noll was of the

opinion that this card contained Information involving Noll's

association with Carlos Marcello.

Mir. Miller, who intercepted

this card through the assistance of the warden at the U. S.

Federal Penitentiary at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, made it

available to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

A copy of

a letter dated July 7, 1961, which was received by Katz on

July 10, 1961, from one of his regular correspondents as

well

the envelope in which this card was mailed were also

made available,

The only tie-in between the letter and the

card was that "Dr. Kessler" was

mentioned in both:tor

Mr. Miller requested that the contents of the card

be examined for a possibly secret message and that handwriting

specimens contained thereon be compared with known handwriting

Specimens

of Goldberg to determine if he actually wrote same.

The card in question is a Gibson greeting card. The envelope

in which it was mailed had no return address.

to Mr. Samuel Katz, 26705 Lewisburg Penitentiary, Lewisburg,

Pennsylvania, and postmarked, Washington, D. C., July 9, 1961,

9:30 p.M..

The

following message was written in longhand on

the inside:

"Howdye Sam

Am here

at the convention with

Dr. Buchmore

Dr • Seaichmore

Dr • Benzmore

Dr. Baton

About 400 attendants and you don't need thei

mirror and am not Dr. Blumbuging you!! and I am going to

try and try and try again

Yours

Dr.

Silvers tein &

Dr. Kessler®

The two-page typewritten letter described above

which was dated Friday, July 7, 1961, is not pertinent to this

5

=

DocId: 32290628 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John Fe Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

September

20, 1961

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

On July T, 1961, Edwyn Silberling, Chief, Organized

Crime and Racketeering Section, Criminal Division, Department

of Justice, advised that Theodore Goldberg, released from the

Lewisburg Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, July 4, 1961,

contacted Carl Irving Noll, witness under subpoena

for the U. S. Government in the Marcello case in Washington, D. C.

Goldberg reportedly told Noll to contact Jack Wasserman,

Washington, D. C., attorney for Marcello.

It is alleged by

Noll, the source

of this information, that he also told Noll,

"You have been talking," that Goldberg had received money from

Frank Costello, New York racketeer, and that Costello "will take

care of you."

Goldberg allegedly indicated Noll should go to

Chicago where he would receive money from Costello. Goldberg

left Washington for Chicago to begin employment on July 10 with

the Big Four Clothing Co., 63rd and Ashland Streets, Chicago.

Noll is in fear of his personal safety.

A pretext telephone call on July 9, 1961, to Frank

Point Road, Sands Point, New York,

Costello planned to be at his residence at Sands Point on the

week-ends and at his family residence, 115 Central Park West,

New York City, during the weekdays in the immediate future.

had;

no present intentions of traveling to Chicago.

A check of Dun and Bradstreet records, Chicago, Illinois,

on July 10, 1961, indicated the Big Four Clothing Co., is a

partnership which deals in men's clothing.

This firm has two

stores,

one at 1157-59 West 63rd Street,

and the other at

6301-05 South Ashland Avenue, both in Chicago, Illinois.

Partners

are

Banjamin Itzkovitz, born in Russia in 1894, and Seymour J.

Kovitz, born in the United States in 1917. The firm maintains

four employees.

per

New

pulicans.

DocId: 32290628 Page 6

---

