# docid-32331313

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

124-90096-10259

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-156

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/18/1962

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32331313

52

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-106

2 Will determine telephone numbers of CHARLES

DEL MONICO,

subject's son, and request toll calls for

these numbers.

3.

WilL

continue to contact informants familiar

with subject's activities and attempt to determine subject's

activities in Miami.

- ADMINISTRATIVE •

Miami letter to the Bureau dated 11/28/62

requested the Bureau to obtain subject's tax returns

for

the past five years.

Confidential source abroad referred to in instant

report is DI. ALFRED CARRELL, SWiSS. Central Police Bureau,

Bern, Switzerland, who furnished information to the Bureau

through Legat, Bern. This information furnished Miami

regarding Bureau Routing Slip dated 11/28/62.

(ni)

Referenced report of SA PAUL G. DURKIN, dated

10/8/62 at New York in which a lead was set out to inter-

view all telephone subscribers mentioned in New York

letters to Miami, 5/18/62 and 6/13/62. In New York letter

dated 5/18/62, the following Miami numbers were set out as

being called from subject's New York apartment:

JE 8-8811 is the number of the Fontainebleau

Hotel, Miami Beach, and the person called was GEORGE

VAN TROUT.

This was probably GEORGE VAINTRAUB who was

Interviewed in New York City 6/18/62 regarding his

connection with subject.!

UN 5-2932 is the number for CHARLES DEL MONICO'S

residence in Miami Beach. DEL MONICO 18 subject's son. L1

UN 6-4051 is the number subscribed to by FRANCES

B. AXE.

Lead set out to interview FRANCES B. AXE in

New York City.

C

COVER PAGE

SERVAL

92-2989-156

DocId: 32331313 Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-106

MM 665-C and MM 807-C contacted on 12/6/62 by

SA ROBERT F. FETZNER, advised that they knew of no

connection the subject had with Sunny Isles Vending

Machine Co., Inc. when it was owned by FRANK DIOCUARDI.

• INFORMANTS

MM T-1 18 MM 833-PC, contacted by SA PAUL A.

SCRANTON •

MM T-2 is MM 665-0, contacted by SA ROBERT E.

FETZNER.

MM T-3 18, ESTELLE KASS, Manager, Hampshire

Towers Apartments (by request), contacted by SA WILLIAM

F. KUSCH and SA JACK LOUIS MARSHALI.

MM T-4 is MM 665-C, contacted by SA ROBERI F.

FETZNER.

MM T-5 IS NY 3368-TE,

contacted by SA WARREN

J. DONOVAN.

• COVER

PAGE •

DocId: 32331313

Page 3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITE STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUST TE

PERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Miami (Attention: WILLIAM KENNEY)

Report of JACK LOUIS MARSHALL

Dater

DEC 1 8 1962

Flold Office Flle #:

92-106

Tisle: CHARLES TOURINE

INMAS

Offices Miami, Florida

Bureau File # 92-2989

1259

Exampil:€

Characters

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsls Subject's furniture moved into Apt. 910, Hampshire Towers

Apartments, 5415 Collins Ave.,

Miami Beach, but whereabouts

of subject unknown. Informant advised that subject

and

"TONY BOY" BOIARDO closely associated and that they were

moving to Puerto Rico where they apparently would be

connected with a gambling operation.

MIS • SYBIL SALTON,

Miami Beach, Fla, advised she and her sister, Mrs.

FRANCES AXE, NYC, are old friends of the subject but she

has not seen him for over a year.

FRANK STEINBERG,

Attorney, 1701 Meridian Ave. , Miami Beach, advised he

represented subject in Income Tax case with Government.

" Confidential source abroad advised subject in Switzerland

"during 8/62 in the company of one GEORGE LANGLEY.

(2)

• Po

PROPRIATE ACENCIES

DETAILS:

AND

RESIDENCE

DArE 3' -3

clan

MM T-1 advised on October 15, 1962, that subject

was expected to arrive in Miami on October 17, 1962.

MM I-1 advised on October 23, 1962, that the subject

was staying at his apartment in the Beaux Arts Apartments,

North Bay Village, Florida, and had been observed in the

company of his son, CHARLES DEL MONICO.

COM

NIAS

42-2989-156

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

19690

DECLASSIFLED BY S

ON 10/14. 99

GCL

tpieio.e.i7

DocId: 32331313 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM

92-106

TRAVEL

A confidential source abroad advised on October 4,

1962, that the subject stayed at the Lausanne - Palace -

Lausanne, Switzerland, from August 4 to 8, 1962, in the

company of one GEORGE.

LANGLEY who was born July 11, 1914.

Examination of hotel records for the above

period shows that the following phone calls were made

to the cities indicated by either subject or

LANGLEY:

Date

August 5

August 5

August 5

Place

Beaulieu, France

Montecatini, Italy

Monte Carlo, Monaco

Time

17 minutes

12 minutes

3 minutes

August 6

August 6

Geneva, Switzerland

New York

August 7

August 8

Cannes, France (3 calls)

Milan, Italy

From Lausanne, subject and LANGLEY went to

Clarens, Switzerland, where they were treated by Dr.

NIEHANS at the "Ia Prairie" Clinic in a series of

rejuvenation treatments involving the injection of

"fresh cells". In addition to their board at the clinic,

the treatment cost each of them approximately 7,000

Swiss

francs (§1, 625.00 (21)

The following telephonic contacts were noted

during their stay at Clarens:

(u)

CX(4)

X(10)

• 6 .

92-2989-156

DocId: 32331313 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM. 92-106

Date

Place

August 10

Monte Carlo, Monaco, and Beaulieu,

France (made by TOURINE)

August 11

Miami Beach, Florida (made by

LANGLEY)

August 12

Paris, France, to one ARMAND

CERANT at the

Hotel Plaza Athenee

August 13

Cannes and Paris (Hotel Ritz)

On August 13, 1962, the subject was in telephonic

contact with one JOHN PULLMAN, who resides at 20 Avenue de

Valmont, Lausanne, Switzerland, PULIMAN holds Canadian

Passport No. 4.422213 which 1s valid until May 12, 1964.

He is the son of BENJAMIN

and ROSEMARIE RICHARD, and 18

related to JOAN ARLENE RICHARDSON, who was born November

15, 1935, at Toronto, Canada. According to Swiss authorities,

on September 25, 1960,

on December 27, 1960, he moved to an apartment at 20

Avenue de Valmont, which has been previously mentioned.

In registering with Swiss authorities as a foreigner, he

mentioned that he had previously resided at 54 Road Avenue,

Toronto, Canada, and indicated that he was a retired

businessman who had

sufficient funds in order to live

without working.

121

MISCELLANEOUS

On November 6, 1962, Chies of Detectives, GUS"

ERNST, St. Louls Police Department, stated there have

been no double murders in the St. Louls area in the last

number of years.

said the last double murder occurred

about nine months ago in East St. Louis, Illinois, when

MELVIN JOHN BECKMAN and ELMER DOWLING,

associates of

East St. Louis hoodlum BUSTER WORTMAN,

double mirder to date has not been solved.

were slain. This

AS DEALS

•:70

* Me

92-2989-156

DocId: 32331313 Page 6

---

