# docid-32310909

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10308-10123

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-818

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1962

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, BUSS, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

A NW 45792 DocId: 32310909 Page 1

350

---

## Page 2

"4-4% (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED CO

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

xxxTeletype

DEFERRED

7-26-62

SO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

6:16 AM

LJC

252055

DATE 4. 23.84

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

B/S

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CONTINUED CONTACT WITH

BERWYN CITY

COUNCILMAN, HAS DETERMINED THAT

RECENTLY ATTEMPTED TO

CONTACT CHUCKIE ENGLISH CLOSE

ASSOCIATE OF GIANCANA REGARDING

ATTEMPTS ON THE PART OF

TO BECOME A PHONOGRAPH RECORD

PUBLISHER IN CHICAGO.

IT IS NOTED THAT ENGLISH WITH HIS

LORMAR RECORD COMPANY IS IN THIS BUSINESS HERE. VYDRA

CONTACTED ENGLISH IN THIS REGARD RECENTLY AND WAS TO MEET

WITH ENGLISH AT PEDICONE'S RESTAURANT IN BERWYN,

I-LINOIS,

HOWEVER, ENGLISH FAILED TO KEEP THE APPOINTMENT.

FOR THIS REASON

_CONTACTED ANOTHER ASSOCIATE OF

GIANCANA ROCCO INFELICE

WHO INFORMED HIM THAT THE PROPER

PERSON TO CONTACT IN THIS REGARD WOULD BE "NIGGER JOE"

AMATO ANOTHER ASSOCIATI

E-OF GIANCANA WHO ALSO HAPPENS TO BE

A CLOSE FRIEND OF

AMATO IS A CHICAGO HOODLUM WITH

RESPONSIBILITY FOR UNDERWORLD AFFAIRS IN NORTH WESTERN

SUBURBS OF, CHICAGO. HE IS UNDERLING OF GIANCANA. IN THIS

REGARD. (U

93-3171-818

WILL CONTACT AMATO SOME TIME THIS WEEK AND WILL

FURNISH THE RESULTS OF SUCH CONTACT TO THIS OFFICE./U

ARMED: AND DANGEROUS. (U)

REC. Z2 - 319/=

RECEIVED:

7:31 AM:

EIXP 100

8 JUL 26 1962

OTHER 4

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32310909 Page 2

---

