# docid-32140840

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DA2520111-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10062-10427

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3957

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: LEG,

TO

DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

:[No Titlel

DATE

05/19/1964

PAGES

: 5

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, POST-RP, TRIP TO MX, CP, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4.

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC INTV, LHM

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

• i Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

1/2

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act" of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

* MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITE: STATES

MENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

RA LEGAT, MEXICO (105-3702) (P)

DATE:

5/19/64

APPSOPRIATE ARMICIES

AND

ILD OFFICES

ADVTS

MY ROUTING

STIl

class

DA

LEE

HARVEY

OSWALD, AKA

des sules

- CUBA

CLASSED

охране

9-5-9

inclosed

are 16 copies of a letterhead memorandum

(I=

dated and

captioned as above, which states the number of sourc

contacted

regarding the reported

of Mexico

in the OSWALD case X6 (W).

interest DEL ThORATER EAT

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ReBulet 4/21/64. V

No EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

With r

ard to ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA's statement

that MARY. LOUISE

AMACHO

PATTERSON, knew OSWALD while

h

was in fussta

MEX-18 and MEX-19 have been unable to obtain

more explicit information from MORA: The matter was discussed

again with the informants on 5/5/64, at which time they advised

that; according to MORA, she and CAMACHO are long-time friends

dating back to the time

they were both residents of New York

City.

The informants advised that MORA and CAMACHO correspond

ADR

frequently. with MORA writing to CAMACHO approximately twice a>.

week and sending her toilet articles, warm socks, and similar

items which CAMACHO has needed while, in Russia.

They stated,

however, that MORA has ignored all opportunities persistently

created by the informants to say anything more about what

CAMACHO may have written her at, one time or another regardingl

LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

As previously pointed out, direct question-

ing

Of MORA by the informants does not produce information

cuba

mEXICO

With regard to MORA's "information concerning OSWALD"

visit: to the Cuban

Embassy, that information, according to MORA

came from TERES

PROENZA,

Embassy, during

A Convers athen Cetteen MORA and PROENZA.

then Cultural Attache of the Cuban

"COPY OF

-According to the informants, MORA and PROENZA had been close

friends for an extended period.of

time.

On the occasion of

MORA's relating the story to the

informants on 1/13/64 the

informants tried to elicit more information from her, but

6 - Bureau

1 Go see

Section)

REG- 32

UNREC COPY AND

(1 - Liaisor 00-10461)

(2 - Dallas,

105-82555

(1 - New York ( 105-38431)

REC

1 - Mexico City

NLF: plb

(7)

12e92

lestro

glassificed bl

ication Indefinite

ACOCTION

41 2 8101

DocT

•32140840

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CoTlection Aot "of 1992 (14 US¢ 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 105-3702

SECRET

that time and thereafter they have not been able to develop

any additional.

information

The Mexico City Office appreciates the Bureau's

position that this matter must be pursued in depth and that the

informants should be made aware of the fact that the questions

raised by MORA's original information cannot be left unanswered.

The informants have been

impressed repeatedly with the need to

follow this case aggressively with MORA and to clarify the

original: information

They repeatedly have created situations

which would open up a discussion of the previous information

out have been met with an apparent total lack of interest o

MORA's part.

On 5/5/64 the informants pointed out that,

subsequent: to MORA's original, indication of interest in press

reports concerning the OSWALD case,

they. had repeatedly called

her attention to various articles appearing in the press,

including an article in "Life" magazine,

but received no

reaction whatsoever and no indication of interest.

(u)

Under instructions from this office the

ormants

have tried continuously to set up a two or three day trip out

of Mexico City with MORA and her husband, FRANCISCO MORA:

Definite arrangements were made on three different occasions

for the proposed, trip, and on each occasion MORA was enthusiastic

aboutlit, desiring, toget away from the family and other problems

for a few days rest and relaxation

On each occasion, however,

she postponed the trip due to financial problems with the house

she and her husband are constructing, ill health of her mother;

or pressure of developments such as important visitors arriving

in Mexico whom she had to attend.

The informants made a final

effort to set up a meeting with MoRA following the week end of

5/9-10/64 and prior to MEX-19's departure for

on 5/18/64, but MORA again claimed that as much as she wanted

to take, the trip and much as she needed the rest she would not

be able to leave Mexico City because of the projects' she had

pending. It does not appear that it will be possible to set up

such a meeting

the future in view of MEX-19's return to the

United States.

Both informants have expressed the belief that further

efforts to obtain more specific data from MORA on this matter

would be "working a dry weil." On 5/5/64 they advised that in

their opinion MORA'S complete loss of interest in the OSWALD

case indicates that she has now decided that she and her

assoclates were not actually involved with him, She,

therefore;

does not discuss the matter, any more aside from speculative'

-2-

SECRET

(и)

DocId: 32140840

Page 3

---

