# docid-32150241

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Search

Exit JFK.

Released under the John

Assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10091-10003

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-3RD NR 106

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SULLIVAN, W. C.

TO : BELMONT, A.

H.

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

: 01/30/1964

PAGES : 12

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : SEE FBI 105-82555-2087.

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED

WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:06/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK.

1/1

---

## Page 2

OPIIONAL POR.: "N 1O

3010-100

110.N0.11

(NITED STATES GO RNMENT

Memorandum

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0 ASCIN

•A 8 - 31-95

TO

: Mr. A. H. Belmont

DATE: January 30, 1964

FROM

115. Wo C. Sullivadis

-

Belmont

1

1

Nix.

J. P. Mohr

Mr.

Rosen

-

fir.

Callahan

SIBICT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

-

Mr. W. C. Sullivan lvi

IS - & - CUBA

1/78/92

Glassified b:

Topese se

1

-

Mr.

1

Branigan

-

Мг .

Baumgardner

SYNOPSIS

w: JFK

1

-. Mr.

D. J. Brennan

403 RDD| KER 38145FK Special

Purpose of memorandum is to explore allegatiga Lee Harvey

Oswald was fBl informant and related points covered by President's

Commission last week during appearance before Commission ot henry wade,

District Attorney of Dallas County, Texas, and to set lorth pursuant to

Director's request (1) procedures we use in development and control oi

FBI informants, (2) the system used in handling informants in Special

Intelligence Service (SIS) program, and (3) details concerning Wade's

SIS service while in the FBI.

Contrary to testimony, Oswald was never

• FBI informant, was

never paid money for information and was

never assigned any symbol

number.

Procedures we use in informant program preclude the possibility

of Oswald's connection with FBI as an informant without knowledge of

Seat of Government.

We closely supervise all aspects of informant program.

_Field

loffices cannot develop security informants without Bureau authorization,

which is based on exhaustive

background investigation to determine

"reliarlity, trustworthiness

and stability.

16=1

When we do authorize, we follow informant's development

through progress letters which

field offices submit at four-month

intervals.

102 i

We authorize payments on regular basis and maintain current

records of every expenditure made showing to whom made and way.

SAc has only limited authority to make payments without

Bureau authority in certain instances and we control this by limiting

amount, and by end-of-month accounting procedure which lists all such

i payrents, to whom made, and for what

Chasilied by

CHE:

(5)

I hi

1.t.s.

9 1964

Uruss

19..

CONFIALTIAL

HW 53025

DocId: 32150241 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum Mr. W. C. Sullivan

to Mr. A. H. Belmont

RE :

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

Absence of Payments to Oswald

Had any of our offices even made payments to him

under the SAC's authority, these would have been shown in

the receipts and vouchers

submitted by each office.

These

records have been checked and double checked and no such

payment was ever made.

Symbol Numbers Identifiable

r.;.

Had Oswald been assigned a symbol number, this

fact, we can identify every symbol

number used, past or present. The number 179 supposedly

assigned Oswald is currently used by the Dallas Office

for a criminal informant,

Yelma Yvonne Graham; a Negro madam

who runs a house of prostitution.

In New Orleans, where Oswald

spent some time, the number 179 was used by the New Orleans

Office back in 1941 to designate an informant, Joseph A.

Partridge, who was reporting security information and who

was

discontinued in 1944. As previously noted, once a number is

used in any capacity, whether to designate

a security or a

criminal informant, it cannot be used by the field office again.

• Mexico, to which Oswald traveled just prior

to the assassi

president Kennedy, our Legal Attache there currently

has a security informant 179 who was so designated in 1960.

de Is Ignacio Olivo, who furnishes information on the Mexican-

Russian Institute Of Cultural Exchange la Morelia, Michoacan,

Procedural Steps

Never

Taken

Furthermore, Oswald could not have been assigned such

a symbol number without a prior background investigation by any

field office considering him for development.

Had any field

office considered developing him, it would have had to obtain

approval by the SOG. There is no record of any such request

by any field office

and no record of any such approval.

-

CON

HH 53025 DocId:32150241 Page 3

---

