# docid-32334119

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90110-10112

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-12-210-535

Released under the John

F. Kenned:

ussassination Record:

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

b8-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

. DATE: 05/21/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CARIBBEAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES - CUBA

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32334119 Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

STANDARD' FORM NO. 64

Office Menurandum • UNITED SYATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE:

MAY 2 1 1959

DIRECTOR, FBI

LOTS

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIDI

DATE. 5/6/94

SAG, MIAMI (109-45)

DECLASSIF

0N7/192

Get 92•33

CARIBBEAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES - CUBA

Foreign-Political Matter - Cuba

CLASS.

812041

EXT

REAS

Enclosed herewith are eleven copies

a letterhead memorandum entitled:

Last el

244%

"Caribbean

Political and Revolutionary Activities Involving

Cuba, Panama, Dominican Republic, Nicaragua"

This memorandur 18 being classifled

"SECRET

In order to further protect the Identity of yM 635-s,

who furnished information set forth in this memorandung (y)

MY T-1 18 JOSEPH MEROLA, contacted by SA

LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. on May 9, 11, 12 and 16, 1959.

It should be noted that MEROLA is alleged to have been

a Jewel thief in the past. He claims to be completely

loyal to the United States.

He has furnished a con-

siderable amount of valuable information regarding

Cuban and Panamanian revolutionary matters, some of

which has been verified by other sources.

Therefore,

it is believed that information he has furnished in

the past has been reliable.

MEROLA is presently

under indictment in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in con-

nection with the robbery of a quantity of guns and

other materials from the National' Guard Armory at

Canton, Ohio, October 14, 1958. MEROLA has beensU

- Bureau (Encl. - 11), (RM)

1

- New York (Enel.

- 1, (RM)

Washington Field (Enci.

fid fined

Chicago- Enci. =

1) (RM)

- 1) (RM)

Denver (Enci.

(RM)

1

÷ 1)

1/

- LOS Angeles

(RM)

- 1) (RM)

15 - Miami

REG- 18

• LLS: ems

(23 )

ENCLOSURE.

6/1/a9

MAGENG

-Lit

62J0N1-8 1959 9115

vital pin.

107.122

& MAY 25 1959

_copies made

1B

for review at byade

(See Bufile 402-1272901 5

HH

54027

DocId: 32334119

Page

2

535

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 109-45

SECRET

contacting

this office on a voluntary confidential

basis.

HIs

Identity should be fully proteuted, y

MY T-2 18 RICHARD JAFFE, 666' Northeast 125th

Street, North Miami, Florida, contacted May 11, 1959 by

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. (by request) * (V)

MM T-3 19 MY 635-S, contacted May 12, 1959

by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS,

TR.

original information 1s

located in Miami file 134-211-Sub-A. KU)

Copies for information purposes are being

designated for New York and Washington Fleld Offices,

in view of their interest in the Caribbean political

hate interest an e

situation. Information copies are being designated

for Chicago, Denver,

San Diego and Los Angeles Offices

In view of recent activity in those divisions relating

to panamanian revolutionary mutters.

It should be noted that JOSEPII MEROLA 18

the individual to whom ROLANDO MASFERRER has furnished

a message to be delivered to CARLOS PRIO. SOCARRAS.

MANOLA also Intormed that he was present during the

conversation between Sir SIDNEY OAKES and NICO YPERIFANOS.

MEROLA stated that he would attempt to obtain

additional Information as

It comes to him regarding

the possible arms purchase by Sir SIDNEY OAKES from

YPERIFANOS •

He Informed that he would also be alert

to report other matters

as they came to him regarding

the Caribbean political

situation.

Copies of this memorandum have been disseminated

on a local level to Immigration and Naturalization Service,

Miami; United States Customs, Miami; Office of Naval In-

telligence, District Intelligence Office, 6th Naval

District,

United States Naval Base, Charleston, South

Carolina; G-? Headquarters, Third Army, Fort McPherson,

Georgia; and Tth District Office of Special Investigations,

MacD111

AlI Force Base, Tampa, Florida.

TranSlatIon of MASFERRER letter tO PRIO was

made by SOPHIE SALIBA, Translator, Miami Office.

_2-

SECRET

NW 54027 DooId: 32334119 Page 3

---

