# docid-32289530

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10201-10306

HQ

92-2781-584

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 45966 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

LARADIE, STEPHEN J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/24/1962

'PAGES:

37

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, ACT, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

_02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45966

43

DocId: 32289530

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNi ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Сору to:

Report of:

Date:

SA STEPHEN

July 24: 1982

Field Office File A:

LABADIE

Title:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

Ofice: TAMPA

Bureau File #:

92-2781

Character::

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Subject has U. 8. Passport NO. 256536

s valid for three

yours, (February 15, 1963) Subject continues

to mintain

residenco at 328 N.I. Tist Street, Miami, Fiorida, and

2505 Bristol, Tempo, Morida. Toll calls from liani

residence, telophone now discontinued, reflect only

toll callo to subject'& Tamon residence, residence of

JANIS LONG, and his brother-in-lay's, and to business

establishments of his father-in-law. Subject at Niem

residence 6/25/62 through 6/28/62, and on 6/30/62

at Sonny's Rostaurant, Miami Beach. July 1i 1962,

Ford raicon he uses at Miam left, and on July B.,

1962

subject reportedly at Columbis Restaurant, Tampa, with

JINHY LONGO, and

at the sane

time dines with GEORGE KArt,

move actor, and pubiieity min named HIARDYSChAFTER

(phonetie)

On July 4, 1962, subject at St

Petersburg

Beach,

FlA.

On

July 10

, 1962, at Miant, Florida, when

reportedly paid rent for miami rosidence

Source reports

subject staying at St. Petersburg Beach,

Fla.,

sunner

home

as of July 18, 1962.

was

at the Columbia Restaurant

July 15, 1962

and last arpeared July 19, 1962

JEK-Law 11(a)

Civil tax metters

of subject set for non jury

trial

USDE,

Tamps,

9/10/62

SUBJECT SHOULD

BE

CONSIDERED ARMED AND

DANGEROUS DUE TO

HIS EXTENSIVS PAST

ASSOCIATION IN CRIMINAL ACTIVINES

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

92-2781-584

74 45966

DooId: 32289530

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP

92-1

NEW YORK OFFICK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NºY08

Will report results of contaet with or-borer

WILLIE

PEp regarding his association

with the subject and

his alleged bodyguard, JIMY LoMO

will

maintain contact

with source

at Sing-Sing

Prison relative to the identity of reno",

whom he was to

contact for subject's close associate, JIN lONGO, at Key

Host, Florida.

PHILADELPHIA OFFICE

AY PHILADELPHIA, PA.®

Will keep the Tempa Office advised of any information

obtained concerning the subject, noting that he my possibly

appear August 26, 1982, &t the wedding of ANGELO BRUNO's

daughter, JEAN.

TAMPA OFFICE

AT TAMPA,

FLORIDA:

Wild

continue efforts to establish highly confidential

Bureau coverage on subject's close associates so as to be in a

position to

determine their activities

will Obtain file clips of

subject while in the Tampa

area and forward

same

to the Bureau for editing.

Will continue to maintain contacts with informants

sources

in a position to furnish information regarding

activities on the part of the subject or his associates.

C

Cover Page

14 45966

DocTd: 32289530

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP: 92-1

ADMINISTRALIVE:

the Intormation

of the dos

angeles

Office,

subject reportedly took over

domination of the Italian

grouP In Tamps, Fla on the

death of his father in 1954

He has been publicly doscribed as ®

kingpin ol&

Florida

West Coast group

which operates in bolita (numbers) He

was reportedly &

donimnt perso in gumbling casinos in

cuba, reportedly orning the Sans

Soucie:

He attended the NY

Apalachin meeting of hoodlums im

1957, and has been reported

In contact vitt ALBERT ANASTASIA JuSt befOre ANASTASIA FAS

shot and killed in

Now

York City, October, 1957

Confidential

sources have indicated no may

be a "boss" in the Criminal

DRUNO

The Philadelphia

oftice advised that informtion

secured from PH 622

• July 11, 1962

This information

Indicated ANGEL

BRUNO and his cousin, PETEr NAGGIO, discussed

pLans fOr BRUNO

daughtor JEAN's wedding August 26, 1962

BRUNO apparently

did not want the nonbors of the "Commission"

to be there, and indicated he would invite CARLO

(GAMBINO?)

and STEVI (HAGGIDINO?), but would tell them not

to come

said SANTO

CorObably TRAFICATE he would have to lavite,

but ho would tell him the go thing: (Above intornation

set forth in Philadolphia airtel to Director dated 7/18/62

case cuptioned

Ciminal Comission, Al)

The Philadephia Office advised the Director by

sirtel dated July 18, 1982, in case

entitled ANGELO BRUNO,

AR, that RUSSELL BUYALINO, Kingston,

pa., who attended

palachin meeting; PHILLIP MICO, Pittston, P&:, & member

of the lantly operating Medico Industries; PETER MAGGIO,

and ANGELO BRUNO

not July li and it was indicated CARLOS

MARCELLO

Officiale, New Orleans, La., and

SANTO (TRAFFICANTED, who

apparently

holds

the same

position in Florida,

and with

Representando In Chicago,

Representando

unnamed

SANTO and Chicago

both acquainted with singer-actor FRANK

SINATRA"

who has friendship with

"president's father

MrS MAZEL HIBBS, Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph

Company

Miant, Florida, made available the

information at

Cover

Inge

45966

DocId: 32289530

Page

---

## Page 5

TP 9201

CS

TP 51-C,

previously reported, has had

route transfer

and offorts to continue. this source

continue,

being noted that 480. bristol Avenue is not

nor on his route

ơ bụt that no: was to again commenco operation

July 7, 1962

INFORMANTS:

TP 9-L 18

MANUrL JUNCO,

TP T-2 18

TP T-3

18

PETAR

CAMPAPA,

TP T-4 ds

Auditing Soction, Internal. Revenue

Service, Tenpa, FIa.

PeL.

Miams,

who do

ablect's landlord

at Miam

PCT & Mian!.

PCI

Miami

JEK Act 6 (4)

TP T-3 1s

C8

1g

POI

TP T-7 LB FRANK

To HURLEY, St:

Petersburs Beach,

handles renl estate and rental

propertios for TRAfFICANTES.

TP T-8 is

TP

41-G:

TP 1-9

18

PCI •

DRS

REVIEWED BY TA/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 2.22.9884)

D

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

Cover Page

| N# 45966

DocId: 32289530

Page 5

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

. 9.:

SAVEDRA stated that he

at diamo

Liquor Store

presently working

Avenue for

the 13000 block of North Nebraska

the ower of such liquor store

stated he

is employed at that

PETE PALORI

He

Store

5:00

untll 11:00 p.m.

p.M.

st night

going to

SAVEDRA disclaimed knowing subject prior

Other than the above:

Cuba and declined to furnish any specific information

III. TAX MATTERS

TET-l advised on July 18. 1962

38.2

JFK Law 11(a)

I t

Judge

JOSEPH P. LIEB

publicly reported July 19, 1962

that Federal

set non-Jury trisl for the nock ot

September 10, 1962, relative to the Government's tax case

agaInStan TRAPTICANT family.

SAM C. TRAFFICANTE,,

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

with other

defendants,

And BENRY and DOROTHY TRAFFICANTE, along

were Involved in a suit to recover

$215

,000.00 in

back income

and gambling

defendants, as

been merlously reported,

The other

BARN ILL,

THEO

are hairy C

LELEKIS, JACK BEATTY, ANd MANUEL

FERNANDE?

The

suit asked the

court

TRAFFICANTE

Administrator of the

direct FrANk C

SANTO

Estate of the late

TRAFFICANTE, SR.

give an accounting of the estate

• 8 -

1i.ds

92-2281-584

45966

DocTd: 32289530

Page 6

---

## Page 7

TP 92-1

TP T-2 advised

on July 6, 1962,

that subject had

not paid his rent

the residence

at 323 NE.

7ist

Street

and bad not given any

indication

to the property owners

ho and his wite intended to

move.

TP T-2

advised

on July 16,

1962,

subject

had returned

to

523

NE. Tist Street,

that

Miani, Florida,

July

10, 1962

naid his

month's rent,

but had not

been

on :

SCen

since that

date

at

that

address

JOSE ROMULO, 1002 NU. 23xd Avenue, Minni, advised

on July 12, 1982, that he coud

June 27, 1962, with a friend, RAPAlL GENER, and said he was

introduced to two or threo

white males, but

"ho could not

remember their mnen or their faces.

RAPA GENER advised on July 16, 1962, that he was

scquainted with the subject in Cuba.

He said his occupation

In Cuba was with the Cuban Custors Agency in Havana,

GENER

admitted seeins the

subject at Pumpernick's Restaurant on

the night of June 25; 196%,

and said he frequently sees bim

at various spots around the liant are

speaks Spanish, and as he does not speak Inglish,

He stated, the subject

he and the

subject usually discussed

the political situation in Cuba.

GENER stated he knows nothing concerning subject's activities

In this country, and has

no knowledge concerning any gambling

operations.

July 15, 1962,

GeNer said ho last saw the subject on Sunday.

driving

a white Falcon in downtown Miami

checks of subject's residence at 523 N.E. Mist

Street,

Miant, Iron July 16 to July 20, 1962, during the day

night reflected no activity

not used

the 1961

Falcon

It was presumed subject

was not in Miami.

1962,

that subject has

and therefore

20

14 45966

DocTd: 32289530

Page 7

---

## Page 8

JFK Act 6 (4)

TP. 92-1

TE T-4 advised

who cone to the United States

July 19, 1962, thet DAVID SALVAT

Cuba, and who

few montie

• 18 a brother

to

ago from lavana,

Indicated SANTO

TRATICANTE may holp DAVID Obtain employment in Las Vegas

or some latin American country, but that nothing so far had

come of this.

NEIL I. FINTERING: 2900

Lauderdale, Florian, on July 17

sard avenues fort

acquainted with the

1982,

advised that he was

Six years ago.

subject, maving net hin in Havana five

WINTERING admitted being involved in bookle

operations in the Miant area in the past, but said he 18 not

doing anything at the prosent time.

He advised

that he has

not with the subject on at least three occasions during the

past few

was of

months, but said the roason for these

meetings

FBI:

" personal nature and would be of no interest to the

WINTERING further advised that he does

belleve

the subjoct is involved in any bookie operations in the Miami

but said ho knows nothing about bolita or numbers and

therefore could not say whether the subject wis connected in

any way with these operations

B.:

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

SA JOIN A. AMBIER Observed

loave his residence

subject on June 22,

1962, 1

time, subject's wife left the residence

At the seme

and entered a 1959

white Chevrolet impala bearing 1962 rlorida License No.

3W 12736.

Department

JACKI DE LA LLANA, Intelligence Unit,

advised he conducted

Tamps Police

June 22

surveillance

D.:

1962,

of subject

check

and that the Police Department continues to

observed,

subjoct's Tampa residence; however

to

and his sources indicate that

subject

was not

Miami

subject has returned

• 21

45966

DocTd: 32289530

Page 8

---

