# docid-32291232

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10207-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-608

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

FBI

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/10/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, SHIP, EMPRESS OF BAHAMAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291232

Page 1

---

## Page 2

[Released under the Tohn.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USe 2107.

DATE: 11-14-2017

(Hotey.

... i

MM 92-515

Investigation at Las Vegas indicates MORRIS LANSBURG,

a big hotel operator at Miami and Las Vegas, paid $11,250.00

cash

for

the machines.

MICHAEL MC LANEY, Miami Beach, Fla., a former

operator of the casino at Hotel Nacional, Havana, 1s inter-

ested in taking over the operation of the Wappen Von Hamburg,

1f it can be done in a strictly legal manner and divorced

completely from any known hoodlums.

MM. 509-C on 12/4/62,

advised that on 12/3/62,

MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami File 92-101) who has been out of

prison since 11/27/62, spent some time in the office of

JOE MASSEI (Miami File 92-122) at 23rd and Collins, Miami

Beach, Fla., and individuals observed to be conversing with '

a bookmaker and friend

He also advised COPPOLA does not desire to hang out at any

of the present, clubs or hangouts on Miamt Beach and is seek-

ing a place where he can meet with his

and acquain-

MM 509-C pointed out that ALLIE HARRIS, one of

the COPPOLA group, remained in New York City, where he

reportedly is running some floating dice games, but that

HARRIS' son, MEL HARRIS and his wife came to Miami and are

staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel.

MM 509-C also advised AL ROTH (Miami F1le 162-36)

was interested in acquiring the quarters presently controlled

by the Business Men's Association at Miami Beach when there

was a rumor this association was disband. The Informant

learned the association is going to continue at least for

another year and ROtH's desire to acquire

the quarters failed.

This source also advised that RUTH GASSENHEIMER,

operator of the Patio Bridge Club, which is the largest hang-

out for the hoodlum element

at Miami Beach, inaugurated a

new policy at the club, whereby all individauls who bet on

the card game or bet on the card player must pay the regular

cara game fees.

This policy he related has caused some 111

feeling and some of the hoodlums are seeking other places to

hang out.

- 2 -

N00G

'DocId: 32291232 Page 2

---

