# docid-32334967

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90120-10072

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4196-NR

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:WH 53074 Date:

Đ5-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: SACS

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/06/1963

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

FPCC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

SUMMARY

19.1

HT 53074

DocId: 32334967

Page

28

---

## Page 2

CONRIDENTIAL

OFAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

06-26590

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times"

newspaper contained a full-page advertisement captioned "What

Committee (FPCC).

settle happening is aeSent announced the opiation

of the FPCC in New York City and declared the FPCC intended to

the aistorted American press. 7-1216

'The New York Times" editfor SSancon

January 11.

1961,

668-540

2/10

reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States

Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10,

1961, Dr.

Charles A. Santos-Buch identified himself and Robert Taber

as organizers of the FPCC.,

He also testified he and Taber

ECZASSIEIBO

obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied *

toward the cost of the fore- nentioned advertisement.

8/6/63

CHASS BXT. BYS PY EJW/NA

REASON

pa $ 3,066;

Or AVI

On May 16, 1963,

the first two years

a sourgewadvised that durin

7-27-72

of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle

between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP)

elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby influence

FPCC policy.

However, during the past year this source observed

there has been a successful effort by FPCC leadership to minimize

the role of these and other organizations in the FPCO

so that today

their influence is negligible. ou

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that the

ORIGINAL FILED

National Headquarters of the FPCC is located in Room 329 at

Broadway, New York City. According to this source

the positione

of National Office Director was created in the Fall of 1962 and

was filled by Vincent "Ted" Lee

who now formulates FPCC policy.

This source observed Lee has followed a course of entertainine

and accepting the cooperation of many other organizations

including the CP and the SWP when he has felt it would be to

his personal benefit as well as the FPCe's.

However, Lee has

.. indicated to this source he has no intention of permitting FPeC

policy to be determined by any other organization.

Lee feels the

FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic relations betweer

Cuba and the United States and support the right of Cubans to

manage their revolution without interference from other nations,

but not support the Cuban revolution per se.

The CP and the SWP have

been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450

s/ủ,

Sources:

NY 3164-S

197-4196-

XẠY 3467-580

NOT RECORDED

ALL INTORLATION CONTAORDAUG L2 1963

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAO

5501963

244

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CONFIDENTIAL

Ist Ne of 860

NW 53074 DooId: 32334967 Page 2

---

