# docid-32323156

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90010-10160

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-9734-795

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

BROWN

DL

DATE: 02/13/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NU 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32323156

Page 1

92

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (134-1A-814A)

2/13/64

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

DL -6-8

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNCLASSINEL

DATE 2-15-92BY:5668 SUD/KS0

(JFK)

On 2/5/64, SAW. HARLAN BROWN reCeived, In person, a

handwritten report,

dated 2/3/64, from DL-6-s, which has been

serialized as 134-1A-814.

Informant determined on 2/3/64 that on that date AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA and JO: LANDIN met for me hour during their lunch period.

LANDIN reported on his activities,

he told ESTRADA that FRANK

MEDRANO was starting a club in March.

The club will consist of

married couples.

He and LANDIN felt

that this club would be much

more active that the Forum or PASO. MEDRANO has already nine

couples

he can count on.

The club will be called Educational

and Social Club.

Its function will be to discuss various subjects,

from politics to hootnanies,

projects.

and to participate in local community

A different couple will be chairman and vice chairman

each month.

This will give the members a sense of belonging, a

sense of participationiand a greater interest in the club.

picked st. Paul).

MEDRANO, LANDIN said, had

recently spoken to Mrs. REED (who

Mr. REED, an employee of the Dallas Public

Library, had requested by letter of library officials that nore

Negroes

be hired - especially in mobile libraries.

She received

an answer which she thinks espressed a white-suprenist attitude.

The letter states, among other things, that it wouldn't look right

for Negroes to have such a position since they would be dealing

with white people.

Mrs. RED has saved the letter as evidence

and thinks the library ought to be picketed.

1 - 134-1A-814A

100-7995

- 100-3001 (J. LANDIN)

ESTRADA)

100-9734 (G.I. FORUM)

1

1

100-9848

(A.

(F, MEDRANO)

100-10695 (PASSO)

1 - 100-now (EDUCATIONAL AND

100-671-38 (COMINFIL,

RAC MATTERS)

SOCIAL CLUB)

100-9847 (J. MOLINA)

1 - 100-671-34 (MASS ORGS)

VHB: jeg

(10)

100-9734795

SEAT PED.

..20

FEB1 3 1964

FBI - UALLAS

TH

d9ala-10190

NW 54463 DooId: 32323156 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 134-1A-814A

MEDRANO, LANDIN recalled, had mentioned that A? P.

CALDERON had burned sone handbills

that MEDRANO had given him.

He burned them because the handbill read something like this:

"WEDGAR EVARS, President KENNEDY and four

little innocent little girls gave their

lives, will you give your vote?"

CALDERON did not approve of EVARS being listed first.

Nobody, he said, could take his President's place, he had met

the President, he knew him.

LANDIN said he had recently spoken to ALBERT OROZCO,

G. I. Forum member.

oRoZco had told him that people were not

joining the Forum because of what had happened to ex-Forum

member JOE MOLINA.

In the meantime, LANDIN added, EDVARD MYCUE (who picketed

St. Paul) had visited him on Saturday and invited hin to the

Catholic Interracial Council meetings.

MYCUE wanted to do something

about the special law enforcement officers who are "nurdering"

burglars with shot guns.

LANDIN told him he would talk to MEDiANo

and see what he thought about the subject. MYCUs, who is a bright

intelligent fellow,

relationship because a Negro boy visited her while she was sick

at St. Paul Hospital. MYCUE has also been relieved of his

executive post at the Catholic Interracial Council and has been

Infornant had no additional information.:

2

NH 54463

DocId: 32323156

Page 3

---

