# docid-32289199

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 747 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10475

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-93

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/15/1961

2

GM, ASSOC, PDT, RESTAURANT, ALUMINUM UTENSILS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

w9.1

DocId: 32289199

9

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleotíon Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATEC (Flt-1412017

FBI

Date:

3/15/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

$1

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

AR

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.

Remyairtel, 3/8/61.

on 3/14/61, PG 612-C advised as follows:

RALPH THOMAS, no other identifying information, who recently

took the aluminum cooking and table utensils from New Kensington,

Pa., to KELLY MANNARINO in Florida, still has not returned and

will not be back for a couple of weeks.

KELLY MANNARINO might have taken the aluminum-ware to a friend

of his who operates a restaurant called JOE (LNU) •

other information concerning this individual is that he is from

New York and was "written up" in the New York Times newspaper

a couple of weeks ago.

The "boys" in the MANNARINO mob

the pressure of "Government men"are still extremely alert

in New Kensington.

Anyone who

spends any length of time in the area and who i not known te

the "boys" is followed. If he has an automobile, his license

number is taken and checked with an unknown contact in the

Pennsylvania State Police.

The members of the mob even believe

that out-of-state license numbers belong to Government cars,

until proof is furnished to the contrary.

Recently, a lIcense

number check resulted in the information that the car was

registered to a Chicago, Illinois, firm known as the"4 wheels"

and the "boys" are convinced the driver was some sort of Federal

investigator.

C6-Bureau

4-Miami (1-92-143) (1-92-155) (Info)

3-Pittsburgh (1-137-1017)

TGF/ Jab

REC 47: 92=2914 - 93:

MAR 16 1961

Approved:

& CE Wick

BCBX

F381

Specia

MARS 901

Sent .

_M Per

ECORDED COPY FILED IN

DocId: 32289199 Page 2

---

