# docid-32306110

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10289-10240

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2228

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/20/1967

"PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

LCN, FRATIANNO, JIMMY, AKA, ARRAIGNMENT, CONSPR,

ATTORNEY, POLIT, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306110

Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

ination Records Collection Ach ofe

winter

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD tO 19V: 5-22-841

FBI.

Date:

12/20/67

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM!

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(00: NEW YORK)

Re San Diego airtel to Bureau, 11/24/67.

SD 1064-C-TE was recontacted on 12/7/67 and

furnished the following Information on La Cosa Nostra:

Sacramento and San Francisco Divisions

Informant has been In contact with ICN member

JIMMY "The Weasel" FRATIANNO on several occasions recently.

Stated FRATIANNO is having difficulty raising money for his

defense in the federal case at San Diego charging him with

Fraud Against the Government - Conspiracy. Attorney JAMES

CANTILLON of Los Angeles no longer defending him as FRATIANNO

unable to furnish sufficient money. FRATIANNO appeared. in

U.S. District Court, San Diego, 12/4, 11, and 12/18/67 for

arraignment and plea,

but received postponements while attemoing

to secure new counsel.

FRATIANNO scheduled for return 1/2/68

for arraignment and plea.

FRATIANNO has attempted to get

Informant to use his influence. on newly elected San Francisco

Mayor Attorney JOSEPH ALIOTTO.

FRATIANNO wOuld like ALIOTTO

FILED

to help THOMAS LOUIS. KING recover his Insurance companies.

FRATIANNO feels that KING in some way could help him in his

continued litigation with federal and state authorities over

the operation of his trucking company.

C.

• Bishop

Apparently FRATIANNO beLlEfeS KING

2-605

has political

influence in Sacramento.. Informant states he has no intention

of using his friendship with ALIOTTO for FRATIANNO'S benefit

222%

UNBEC

@ - Bureau (REGISTERED)

- Sacramento (REG)

City

(1- 137-9187)

— Los Angeles

"(92-11P2) BEG 21

Info)

3 - New York (92-2300) (REG)

2. - Las Vegas (REG)

(92-850) (REC

(1- 137-13139}

2 = New. Orleans (REG)

Approv

San Francisco (92-593)

Tampa(92-211

2 - Detroit (92-914) (REG

St. Louis

So spector Area ie Chorde, 3

1

- Denver (REGISTERED.

Phoenix (Into

Seat - Cleveland M92-+748

(33)

2 - Chicago (92-1173) (REG)

San Diego

(1 - 137-1081

DocId: 32306110

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote)e

DATE: 11-14-2017

0-229

Ca

GUER

he and 27

2nd H2

20 gre

200.

In the sue neighborhood

as esprecented his socd friend,

ALLENG of

but that c-TOrTO

• man" and will not do business with the mob.

Pormant veri? -a RANIANNO

HAS L0006

crouble

RY 1

Astempted to retain San Diego

SS

W

tonG U.

S. Attorney

PETE

20,000.

le to do

d+*

ara to I

ехресса

30.

ANCELO MAR INC

nO co visit hi

Cormant

• 0?

Suatea chat - CLANNO's legal pri

nis present

difficulty on his

orders and so he must raise his o

his Own

not as

money.

int or

neisco,

cion c

Sc

or l'or

oldo cout

Oc e anv

Bu: 9-409

Luna.

NOVART

ber caucaver

enployed by

511c everage

nformant was sa

Diego Capo an-

ART was the bag man"

for ABC head, BILL

ho later fled to Mexico to avoid state prosecutio.

MART

S

eve

NELL-

LARI

Diego,

LOS A

10

Into: ant rece:

with his Capo JO

and learned that

TOK LICATA, has appa ta

as Angeles ICN bos

Cano JOS DL OLIO his new underboss.

then appointed Ja

PILLULP REGACE as a ner

12

e vacancy causec

каро

DI: POLIO's promotion to und

Ide

ied REGACE as a u

Los

-ngeles, who cale

Caa lot operator in Bast

so Los Angeles from Clevela

sas not seen him in abou

17 or 18 years, but bel

ant

та A

brought to Los Anc-l0s

a6 8

"collector"

12el

LICKEY COHEN and wo. ea 2c CCH

he war mare a ICN merene in

eles when SuCK I. DRAGNA WAS Boss and was sponso.

JINN RATIANNO.

Sca

anc

Informane stat

tha

on for Capo

CuS

would do wever

Is opinion, R ETE

-s friendship

a told him to

Stated

-2 -

DocId: 32306110 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

92-460

08S

Ca

pen toda

C C

wach Chicago boss

Shas C24 CASA

spending a great deal of

mexico ad contral Amoriea areas.

beLieves

Possible

that

TROL SCI

see sent the informant to

There

o fu ther dascuos ceorgar cacion oi

22C

1000 CU

chas do the present time, they

touch power to openly buck LICATA without a

Bormant admitted that while recantly back in

4-on, 0n30, he discussed this with IBO MOCLA and EATE .

CO, alca..

and TA SALS indicated that he could

make personal contact with "four" Commission members but

Hid not Adontily them.

Internale advised that in recent contact vi ch

his Capo dOL APArO, he was told that LICATA wanted to see

the horment sonetime soon after the holidays at which time

W1.1

accuss wich him interma. tre desire co

cuo back in

LIC.

so vante in ormant to get up

OI1 DOLOLT OF TACH

• PORCE.

claims h. does no low what LICAL. has ar

and Lor

Sur ten he tall try to maneurer hinsels into

POS

* with In 20.12 so that po will be present at che

Informant feels ons reason for the meeting would be

co azurly membership status of FRATIANNO.

Informant advised hat to his mowledge, the Los

eles tanaly leadership

LUCATA - BOSs; DIPOLIO - Underboss;

TONNY LACERIO - Co sigliena; and

Capos POLIZZI, ADANO and REGACE.

New York Division

normant was quercioned regarding the recese

ew York moo assassinations of JAMES DIANCELO and FRANC

LIans, but claimed to have no Inowledge concerning them

ccept wiat he read in the newspapers, specalating that

shey souchow are conneeted with cOE BONANNors attempo co

regain as power.

Infortant agreed to hars lunch 1'

noar Lunire wich ION member MARCO LI MITRE and will bring

che subject to determine if LI HANuaL gas any further

owledge regarding the internal wortare going in Neu ork

New ork note an San Diego airtel to Bureau, 11/7/67,

Intormans menutened the exiutence

e smaller autonomous

DocId: 32306110 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-11-2017

Idencified was os

1. Caleans

Done t50e,

DAL CAROLIO WaS

140,

120, across the border from

4C-08

porcacion.

He wanted to return

ch"*

in New

Cleans and dosiceo do re-enter the

De228

caught

by Linieranion and Naturalization

10г

Nord was sent

to the into ano who was Capo in

Die ores the time.

He went to Pijuana and set up a big

eitentenn restaurantear che neicht at the parry,

Fess arey ana he swiss ca nim back anco che

ove ten Cubeotly to Pl Centro, California, Where

was passing, in a chartered plane and

He Go one

in the New Orleans area. Stated

PC.

CAROLLO is a ICN menper-

Advices that he met she present ICN boss, CARLOS

MARCELLO theouch SAM CAROLLO do 1945-1946 when he went there

to talk with them about fumishire the race wire soevice.

Latorment

Thalersed he had trutle on no knowledge abous the

present tad ao avaries in the outsiana family.

Infor ant might be egreeable, however, sometime to

mans a trip in che future back to che New Orleans anc

Florida areas to contact MARC CLO and TRAFFICANCE.

had no mowledge of (FAU) BERTOLINO, the

Godson of 4.54

COPPOLA,

reportedly working as an, entertainer

Suated that CO-POLA is an old friend of his

anarcher

Ho would be agrecable to contacting BERTOLINO the

next tine he went to Las Vegas to deternine 1f he is a ICN

Icaly.

VASIOL

accordance with Detrois letter to San Diogo,

"DOMINILO DOSER

CAVOLI"

", the informant

concerning his ICN sacus.

He advised that mary years ago, when he went back

to Detroit to attend the wedding of JOE MATRANGA tO PRIZIOLA S

DocId: 32306110 Page 5

---

