# docid-32286886

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 21077

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

94-41 (Ray, 6-2-61)

a dio

DECODED COPY

«x Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy -

PAGE TWO FROM SAC MIAMI

182052

INFORMATION FROM YOU, " POMARANCE STATED KAPPEL TOLD HIM

THEY WOULD COOPERATE WITH THE FBI NOT IRS. MARTIN DARDIS,

CHIEF INVESTIGATOR, FLORIDA ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE ADVISED

SA LAURENCE FO WIRICK, JR. JANUARY 17 LAST THAT BECAUSE OF THE

RAID BY IRS LAST SATURDAY NONE OF THE LOCAL OR STATE AGENCIES

WERE GOING IO COOPERATE ANY MORE WITH IRS.

MIAMI AIRTEL TO

THE BUREAU JANUARY 4 LAST REPORTED IRS, ON JANUARY 3 LAST HAD

INSTITUTED A CAMPAIGN TO ARREST PRINCIPAL WAGERING OPERATORS

IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA.

THIS PROGRAM IMPLEMENTED BY 15

ADDITIONAL IRS AGENTS COMING TO FLORIDA. THE IDENTITY OF

INDIVIDUALS PENTAL CRIME REGENG FYING WAS FURNISHED THE BUREAU.

ON JANUARY 17

"TELLMAN VIRGIL STALLINGS, MIAMI

137-979 ADVISED SA H. WAYNE SWINNEY HE HAD JUST PURCHASED A

WAGERING STAMP AND FROM REMARKS MADE IT WAS OBVIOUS LOCAL

BOLITA OPERATORS AND BOOKMAKERS WERE AWARE OF IRS PROGRAM.

MM 788-C# HAS ON SOME TWO OCCASIONS INDICATED INDIVIDUAN RACKETEERING

INVOLVED IN THE BOLITA OPERATION OF HYMIE E. MARTIN, AKA, 'AR,

FBI NUMBER 175708, MIAMI FILE 92-218, WERE AWARE OF IRS

INTENSIFICATION.

INFORMANT STATED MARTIN AWARE OF FACT AND

MUST BE CAREFUL FOR APPROXIMATELY TWO MONTHS. MARTANi!S

PARTNER IN OPERATION OF EQUIPMENT LIQUIDATION, INC, 7511

NORTHWEST 22 COURT, IS ONE NORMAN MORGANSTERN. AT 10:50 AM

JANUARY 18 INSTANT, MORGANSTERN AT OFFICE AND IN TELEPHONIC

CONVERSATION WITHMARTIN STATED "NOTHING NEW" AND "LETS TALK

TO HIM ABOUT CERTAIN THINGS. " MORGANSTERN THEREAFTER TALKED

TO AN UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL REFERRED TO AS JACKIE STATING "OH, '

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

'DocId: 32286886 Page 1

---

