# docid-32319665

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10371-10196

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-J3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE : 06/26/1964

'PAGES:

76

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, RESEARCH MATTERS ON

DIMITROFF RE: AAG KEUCH REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC FOLDER, MEMO, RPT, LHM, ENVELOPE, A/T, TTY, PHOTOS

v9.1

DocId: 32319665

88

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act bf 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: +11-14-2017

Office Memorandum

UNITED SLATES GOVERNMENT

SEER

TO

Director, FBI

(88-29300)

DATE:

June 11, 1964

for: Logot, Rome

(88-33)

* (RUC)

SUBJECT, DIMITER ADAMOFF DIMITROFF aka

use

UFAP - CONFIDENCE GAME

ReBulet, 5-7-64, and letterhead memorandun,

4-29-64, at Los Angeles.

Information set forth in referenced Los

Angeles letterhead memorandum was made available to

ROBERt F. CARtWRIGHt, Consul General; U. S. Embassy.

CLASSIFIED BY 5268

1113/9

DECLASSIFY O

1964, NICK DAMIGOS, Regional

security ortice,,. Embassy, Athens, aviced that

the records of his office reflect the following infor-

mation:

16

Да

ALL INFORMATION CONTA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCE THERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

On October 1, 1954, MISS MARGARE

WIESENDER of the U.S.E.P.

United States

Escapee Program) in Athens, requested the

Embassy Security Office to

conduct a police

agency check on DIMITRIOS DIMITROFF, son of

ADAM DIMITROFF and PETROVA DAFNIA, born in

1924 in Bulgaria, radio announcer, resident

of the Escapee Camp at Syros Island, Greece.

who entered into Greece on July 23, 1947.

On August 20, 1954, the Embassy Secur-

ity Office advised Miss MARGARET WIESENDER,

USE?, Athens, Greece, that the check had been

completed with the following results:

Criminal Services for Greece check:

File 432036/Aug•

1954, reflects that on

August 22, 194, aubject was Fingerprinted in

the City of Salonika as a political refugee.

on subject.

Aliens Dingtorato

Athens: no record

5 = Bureau

11 - Liaisot

• Section)

REC 4 88-29300: 8

12

LOS

Angeles

Inf.)

1 - Rome

88-33

B JUN 16 :964

TAK: OC

(6)

64 JUN 2 5 1964

SUP•

DocId: 32319665 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notey

DATE: 11-14-2017

*ECRET

Political File, anerican Embassy, Athens:

no record on subject.

halson/Office, American Embassy, Athens:

DIMITRI ADANOEL DIMITROFF, aka "DIKO":

Izing official of the Agrarian Democratic Party

of Bulgaria and Representative of the Bulgarian

Political Refugees In Greece, laid a wreath at

the nonument of Lavrion on behalf of the Bulgar-

Ian Political Refugees on Septenber 23, 1950. He

also made & speech.

Subject wrote the following

"From the Blood Orgy of the Reds in

Bulgaria;" (2) "Farmers and Comnunisn"; (3) "In the

Memory of the Ever Menorable Petkoy"; (4) "Kato

Apo to Staliniko Knouto"; (5) "The Liberators of

Bulgaria."

DAMIGOS stated that the records of the Greek

Agencies set forth below were reviewed and contained the

following Infornation:

Athens General Security Sub-Directorate,

Athens:

File No. 127744 reflects the following re

port dated Apr11 11, 1963, of the Greek Military,

"Nayäl, and Air Force Attache of the Greek Royal

Embassy in Paris, France:

"Subject: Bulgarian

D. AJ DIMITROFF - I report that during ay last

visit In Spzis I was informed of the following re

subject - DIMITROFF.

'DIMITROFF comes from North

Bulgarla and is in possession of recommendation

letters by our Ambassador in Berne, Mr. TRIANDAPILLOU,

and other letters from & former Minister of the Prime

Minister's Office to the effect that he, DIMITROFF,

collaborated with the Greek authorities

fron 1948 to

1952. Subject, DIMITBOFT, participates 1n a polit-

Ical movenent the basic objectives of which are the

furthering of friendly relations with our country.

The group surrounding the forner Bulgarian King BORIS

GRECCE

THIEFF, a fira believer in a greater Bulgaria, does

not wish to have any connections with DIMITROFF because

DIMITROFF 1s considered a pro-royalist person but of

-Iberal leanings. DIMITROFF 15 married in civil

-2.

DocId: 32319665 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 644 Use 2107 Hote)

-DATE :* 11-14-2017

matrimony for a second time to a Greek citizen

named Kaliopi GERALEXI, possessor of Pasport

No. 61012, issued by the Greek Ministry for the

Interior on November 3, 1960, and renewed by

the Greek Consulate General in Madrid on March 1,

1963.

DIMITROFF's daughter was born in Madrid.

DIMITROFF is in London in an effort to settle

his divorce case with his first wife. DIMITROFF

is in possession of "Titre de voyage Americain"

No. 2-A-10963093 dated January 2, 1963.

There is

information that DIMITROFF intends to return to

Greece.' "

The aforementioned file also reflects

a copy of a report from the Athens Aliens Center.

to the Aliens Directorate for Greece dated Decem-

ber 23, 1963, reading as follows:

DIMITROFF - arrived in town via Piraeus in

possesion of American L.P. No. A-109630933 dated

February 1, 1963, along with his Greek wife

Kaliopi and his daughter. They all moved into

a house

located at No. 9 Kadmou and Dousmani

2963 daughter: du

Street, Glyfada,

on a rental basis. On Octo-"?

ber 14, 1963, subject - DIMITROFF - reported to

ibiect o

this office in order to register himself and his

family and stted that his address was Nö. 32

Themidos Street, Old Phaleron, a house belonging

to his father-in-law, Mr. SOTERIOS MERLOS •

Sub-

ject - DIMITROFF - stated that he had failed to

state his correct address at the time of his

arrival as he fears he would be murdered by the

Bulgarians and Siv-Macedonians of Athens, ₴8 he.

DIMITROFF - had escaped from Bulgaria and opposed

the communist regime of the country. For these

reasons subject - DIMITROFF - strongly requested

that his above mentioned real home address be kept'

confidential.

He intends to produce two movie

films in Greece."

This office possesses nothing

against. DIMITROFF's (subject's) wife.:

Aliens Directorate, Athens:

Arrival and

Departure records, reflect subject arrived on Sep-

tember 12, 1963, and departed January 31, 1964;6

SECRET

J3

DocId: 32319665 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assas51na:101 Records Collection Act of 1992 147. 050

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

also arrived February 1, 1961, and departed

March 3, 1962.

There

is also

a notation that

on February 19,

1962, he arrived in Athens on

transit status.

(3)

SECRET

53

DocId: 32319665 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released undel the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

"DATE: 11-14-2017

rent

Logot Attache, some

DiTOCTOTRITE

(88-29300) - 6

DINITER ADAMOFT DIMITROTT, ale

UTAP • CONFIDENCE GANE

May 7, 1964

aut

Inclosed hereuith are two.:: coples of a letterhead

senorandun dated April 29, 1964, and one photograph o1

subject taken at the los angeles office April 3, 1964. the

attached is being furnished in the event legat, ione say

want to furnish the information concerning Dinitroit to appropriate

off1clals in Greece.

Iac. (3)

I - PoTeNsa Ilalaos Base idetached?

Gracer

Indrised

MAILED. 1'1

MAY & 1964

COMM-FBI

Toison

Belmont

Hotr

Casper

(5)

Callahan

Conrad

Je Loach

Evans -

Cale

Rogen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

H: 72 MAY 121904

Holmes

MAIL ROOM

Міси

TELETYPE UNIT L

53

DocId: 32319665

Page 6

---

