# docid-32335417

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90123-10083

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 124-8218-11

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WIT 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OC

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/08/1952

• PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

PAUL M. RAIGORODSKY

DOCUMENT TYPE: / PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

* CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

+.

f....

v9.1

HW 54462 DocId: 32335417

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE URIGINATED AT BUREAU

REPORT MADE AT

OKLAHOMA. CITY

TITLE

FILE NO.

DATE WHEN

MADE

9/8/52

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

8/27,29;9/3,4/52

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT L. WILSON

vlb

CHARAGTER OF CASE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PAUL MARK RAIGORODSKY

ICE LEN

/EAt

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM

FK

#NOPSIS OF FACTS: Reference, associates,

and neighbors comment

favorably on Applicant's character, loyalty,

and associates; would recommend for position

of trust and confidence. Referense, 2 asso-

ciates, state Applicant's wife predicted im-

pending proletarian violent revolution in us

and commented favorably on Communist, theories.

Applicantis credit good Tulsa, Okla..

• No criminal

record Tulsa PD or Tulsa County SO, Okla.

- RUC -

• REFERENCE:

DETAILS:

Bulet to Washington Field, 8/15/52.

TANS INFORMATION

TELED

HEREIN IS

7E G30SD1

REFERENCE

EXCEPT

5S.30

At Tulsa, Oklahoma

WILBUR J. HOLLUMAN, Attorney, National Bank of Tulsa Building,

who has known Applicant approximately 20 years, advised he considers Applicant

to be a loyal American of good character and associates, and he would recommend

him for a position of trust and confidence.

HOLLEMAN stated Applicant is a

native of Russia and came to the US about 1920 after being driven from Russia

by the Bolsheviks. He said Applicant was a member of the Mensheviks, a group

of political intellectuals, who were violently opposed to the Bosheviks.

HOLLEMAN advised he and Applicant have been associated in a number of business

enterprises in the petroleum industry. During World War II, he said, Petroleum

Engineering, Inc., of which Applicant is now president, and in which he, HOLLEMAN,

had a large

interest, undertook, with the knowledge and permission of the State

Department, to sell a number of gasoline plants to the USSR as part of the. Lend-

Lease program.

APPROVED AND

He recalled Applicant, at the time, protested vigorously at

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

RECORDED - 47

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau (AMSD)

1 - Oklahoma City (124-315)

31

SEP 11 1952" 411

20: 11

100 6 2

CECEIAED : R

11i0

PROPERTY_OF-FBI-THIS

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED.

GONFIDENTIAL REPORT AND IT& CONTENTS ARE LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI AND ARE NOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE OF

U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 18-59255-1

54462 DocId: 32335417

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

ÓC -124-315

INFORMANTS:

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

I-I is OC 210-S, whose identity is known to the Bureau, and was

contacted by SA BENNIE C. GARREN on 9/4/52.

• 1.

-5-

HH 54462

DocId: 32335417

Page 3

---

## Page 4

=

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Forma NO. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT BUREAU

REPORT MADE AT

FILE NO.

OKLAHOMA CITY

TITLE

DATEANHEN

9/8/52

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

8/27,29;9/3,4/52

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PAUL MARK RAIGORODSKY

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT L. WILSON

vIb

CHARACTER OF CASE

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Reference, associates,

and neighbors comment

favorably

on Applicant's character, logalty,

and associates; would recommend for position

of trust and confidence. Reference, ? asso-

ciates, state Applicant's wife predicted im-

pending proletarian violent revolution in US

and commented favorably on Communist theories.

Applicant's credit good Tulsa, Okla. No criminal

record Tulsa PD or Tulsa County SO, Okla.

- RUC -

REFERENCE:

DETAILS :

Bulet to Washington Field, 8/15/52.

REFERENCE

AST INFORMATION

GIED

NESS

At Tulsa, Oklahoma

WILBUR J. HOLLEMAN, Attorney, National Bank of Tulsa Building,

who has known Applicant approximately 20 years, advised he considers Applicant

to be a loyal American of good character and associates, and he would recommend

him for a position of trust and confidence. HOLLEMAN stated Applicant is a

native of Russia and came to the US about 1920 after being driven fron Russia

by the Bolsheviks. He said Applicant was a member of the Mensheviks, a group

of political intellectuals, who were violently opposed to the Bosheviks.

HOLLEMAN advised he and Applicant have been associated in a number of business

enterprises in the petroleum industry. During World War II, he said, Petroleum

Engineering, Inc., of which Applicant is now president, and in which he, 'HOLLEMAN,

had a large interest, undertook, with the knowledge and permission of the State

Department, to sell a number of gasoline plarts to the USSR as part of the Lend-

Lease program. He recalled Applicant, at the time, protested vigorously at

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT.

Bureau (AMSD)

1 - Oklahoma City (124-315)

PROGERTY DE OIL THC CHEIDENTI PERORT ANTE CONTENTE E LOAEO TOR PELLERIA ME CATENE CITA CE

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED,

U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16--59255-1

NH 54462 DocId: 32335417

Page 4

---

## Page 5

oc 124-315

INFORMANTS:

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

I-I is OC ?10-S, whose identity is known to the Bureau, and was

contacted by SA BENNIE C. GARREN on 9/4/52.

-5-

NW 54462 DooId: 32335417 Page 5

---

