# docid-32334726

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90118-10085

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2897-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/17/1958

18

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HW 45922

DocId: 32334726

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

ORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

LE OF CASE

7

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD 12/20,24/57

2/17/58

1/6-10,13,14,20-22,24,31;

REPORT MADE BY

12/1,4/58

TYPEDBY

ROBERT M. BARRETT

JH

CHARACTER OF CASE

HARRY RAYMOND

POPE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

IOPSIS:

POPE, presently being sought by Dallas SO, belleved to be hiding

out in West Texas or New Mexico.

Additional background

information; results of contacts with informants and associates

set out. SUBJECT HAS. BEEN KNOWN TO USE A KNIFE IN A FIGHT,

CARRIES A

IN CAR,

• P.

DETAILS:

ROVED

'IE'S MADE:

A.

PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

On January 9, 1958, Dallas Confidential Informant T-1,

who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

JACK ANDREW PARKER, FBI #3569302, 1s POPE's cousin and would

assist POPE in anything.

T-1 stated PARKER lives at 1203 North

Washington and that both he, PARKER, and POPE are the nephews of

the owner of that residence, Mrs. WINNIE BRISSON.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

72/2897-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

13

REG. 7

EX. - 125

See Page la

DALLAS (92-34)

18 FEB 26 1958

1cc relamed em 4410

cerelined the cliayed

8108/594925

62 APR 24.1958

OPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loansd.

22.

: DocId: 32334726 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 92-34

the first part of December, 1957, at which time he was

accompanied by a large blonde named LINDA. T-2 stated T-2

is weld acquainted with most of the prostitutes in the Dallas-

Fort Worth area but had never observed LINDA prior to the

above-described meeting.

On January 9, 1958, a 1952 Pontiac bearing Texas

I1cense MW 8923 was observed at the residence of SANDRA NOBLE,

1618 Exeter Street, Dallas.

It was determined this vehicle

was registered to RUBY CORSER, mother of SANDRA NOBLE. On

January 13, 1958, Deputy COX advised that based on his past

dealings with RUBY CORSER, he believed she would assist POPE

In any manner and is most uncooperative with law enforcement

officers.

He stated she should definitely be considered as

an associate of POPE.

D. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

1. Prostitution

On December 24, 1957, Dallas Tol advised that T-1

had last heard POPE was in Fort Worth, living with his

Tol was of the opinion that

GAFFORD hustled at the Westbrook Hotel in Fort Worth and was.

probably helping support POPE.

On December 20, 1957, Dallas Confidential Informant

T-3, who has furnished rellable information in the past,

advised that T-3 is very closely acquainted with RAMONA

PARKER,

the ex-wife of JACK

• PARKER, cousin of POPE, and a prostitute.

On January 31, 1958, T-3 advised that on January 25, 1958,

Dallas pimp and police character LAWRENCE WILLIAM THRASH,

, FBI

#2128280, had advised T-3 that RAMONA PARKER and JACK ANDREW

PARKER, along with POPE, were hiding out together from the

police.

THRASH indicated to T-3 that he knew POPE's present

whereabouts.

THRASH advised T-3 that RAMONA PARKER, who had

formerly hustled for THRASH, would probably get tired of POPE

and leave him in the very near future.

On February 4, 1958, T-2 advised that sometime in

October of 1957,

POPE had taken Dallas prostitute LUCILLE JEAN

FBI #3312825, away from her pimp-husband NORMAN W.

"BABE" JONES, FBI #3042754.

POPE worked FAULK for a while and

then after giving her a beating, she ran away from him and

-8.

NW 45922

DocId: 32334726

Page

3

---

## Page 4

DI. 92-34

INFORMANT PACE

OTHER 4

T-L 1s PCI

T-2 1s PCI

T-3 1s DI-83-0.

T-4 1s PCIL

r-5 1s Special Agent R. W. BURROW

Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company, Dallas, contacted 1/21/58, by SA ROBERT C.

LISH.

T- 6 is PCI

T-T. 18 PCI

SA ROBLEY D. MADLAND.

T-8 1s PCI

contacted by

contacted by SA ROBLEY D.

MADLAND.

All of the above except T-5, I-T, and T-8, were

contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

In addition to the above, the following informants

were contacted but were unable to furnish any information

concerning the activities of POPE.

PCI

contacted 12/23/57, by SA

KENNETH R. ALBERT.

PCI

contacted 12/23/57, by SA

KENNETH R. ALBERT.

PCI

contacted 12/20/57, by

SA ROBERT M.

BARRETT.

DL-28-C contacted 1/14/58, by SA ROBLEY D. MADLAND.

• 16 .

NH 45922 DocId: 32334726 Page 4

---

