# docid-32318954

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10368-10088

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: THORNTON

TO :

STOOPS

TITLE :

DATE:

06/30/1992

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DoCId:32318954

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum

TO

From

ME. Stoops St

V. R. Thornton yoth

Date

6/30/92

324

Dep. Dir._

ADD Adm.

A2D Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Aam. servs.-

Crim. Inv._

Ident.

Info. Mgnt._

Insp.

Intell.

Lab.

Legal Coun.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Cong.

Affs. off.

off.

of EEO

Off. Liaison &

Int. Affs.

Off.

of Public Affs._

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

Subject

:

ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1992

ISSANSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN E. KENNEDY O.

JNITED STATES (U.S.) SENATE RESOLUTION 2827%S

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES RESOLUTION 454XR-454)

Reference Buteletype, dated 4/23/92, to All SACs and

Legal Attaches, captioned as above.

PURPOSE: To place FBI Field Office and Legal Attache responses

to referenced teletype on record.

RECOMMENDATION: That instant memorandum be placed on record,

with attached Field Office and Legal Attache responses to

referenced teletype as an Enclosure Behind File.

APPROVED:

Director

Dep. Dir.

ADD-Adm.

ADD-Inv._

-intell, -

_ Off. of EEO

DETAILS: Referenced teletype to all Field and Legal Attache

offices requested all files and references identifiable with

subjects, previously furnished to all offices, and determined to

be relative to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy be

forwarded to FBIHQ for an overall assessment of total volume of

Enclosures

I! ENCLOSUREL

ENC BEHIND PILE

62A-HQ-1029205

Go#: 491029205-17

1 - IMD

Front Office

1

- Mr.

O'Brien

1 - Mr.

Thornton

(Attention:

1

- Mr. Dudney

. - Mr. Shackelford

Mr. Harmon)

WS : wS

(6)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

• 7 47 13845648-560/dC (CONTINUED - OVER)

(FK)

DocId: 32318954 Page 2

---

