# docid-32307115

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10255

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-4TH NR 18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

07/22/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MR, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

HW 45937 DocId: 32307115

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

DATE

FBI

TOP SECRET

Date:

7/22/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ALE INTOS:

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (ES 68012)(4T

HEREX

EXCE?

OTHERE

FROM:

SAC, SAN JUAN (65-413) RUG*(U

UNSUB; (Aia Moncada (F)(U)

ESPIONAGE - CUBANG)

in 45116

Re San Juan

airtel to Director, 6/27/63 and Miami

airtel

to Director, 7/3/63.

PSI (Under'development),

on 7/22/63

advied

ยก that MANOLO<RAY returned to Puerto Rico on 7/18/63.

RAY stated at meeting that he travelled to Europe via

Washington, D. C. and New York City, where he conferred with

exile leaders. RAY was accompanied

on trip by EMILIO GUEDES,

JURE leader in San Juan.

RAY travelled to Paris, France and

to Belgium.

He met with leaders of Comite Cultura y

Libertad de Francia,

a Cuban exile organization in France,

the leaders of which for the most part are exiled journalists,

and was soliciting their cooperation and support as Cuban

exiles.

In regard to Belgium portion of trip, he neither

denied

nor confizmed that he was inquiring concerning arms. ()U)

For information Miami, SJ 492-S, currently ir

1 Europe

668J.

and not available for recontact concerning RAY. (KU)

or information of the Buregu and liami, agent.

in

an Juan handling Cuban, espionagerand related matters Mu

have been alerted concerning captioned matter and in event

DECLASSIFIED

any pertinent information is learned, it will be immediately

furnished Miami, the office.

3-Bureau RM)

NOT RECORDED

-Miami

65-2977 (RM

ON

87 JUL 26 1963

3-San Juan 1-65-413

c Wick (1-234-626)(1-105-5242-JURE) 05 RIB/HSK

SDE : vvn

6) (4)

(8)

Declassity on: CADR

6 JUL

30:363

Approved:

Per

GEC:

Special Agent in Charge

M

SECRET

COTHER 4

ORIGINAL FILED MY

NW 45937 DocId: 32307115

Page 2

---

