# docid-32297834

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10220-10110

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-405

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/12/1963

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

• LCN, MEMBER, MURDER, SKIMMING OPERATION,

UNDER WORLD ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839

DocId: 32297834 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GO

Memoranau..

TO

Mr. Belmont

DATE: August 12, 1963

FROM

C. A. 'Evans

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper

Callahan .

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans *

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room.

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

mclende

9

Enter on qui

When New York's latest national summary report was received

at the Bureau and careful review commenced during mid-July, 1963, we

were aware that the Department had released voluminous data to the

"Saturday Evening Post" for preparation of a feature article on cap-

Utnost caution was, therefore, necessary in

reviewing, this material to guard against compromising our top sources

in the criminal intelligence field. When an advanced draft of the

"Saturday Evening Post" article was received shortly thereafter, it

became increasingly apparent that the Department was making full dis-

closure of our information on this organization and that special pre-

cautions would be necessary to protect our most sensitive sources

from being pinpointed by Department release.

We had only to reflect on the fact that one of our top

member-sources, Alfredo Sanantonio, had been murdered in gang style

in New York on July 11, 1963, a week or so before. to realize the

necessity of utmost caution.

'Inasmuch as New York's report contained specific data which

we had received in the immediate nast from a hewly developed member-

who is our most valuable

source in southern California, "wit. was necessary to delete certain

of his information and to reword other data furnished by him which,

if released, would tend to pinpoint him as the source.

Adastionally, this report contained onsider De Ep 105

detail regarding the Las Vegas skimming operation which, if released

OTHER 4

material to the Department.

Therefore, it was necessary that consid-

erable material' in this report concerning skimming be amended and

expressed in more general terms to avoid pinpainting out key sources.

92 DE6, 36 3522062

The necessary changes have now, been gekeired1958om New York

and amended pages have been inserted in

our copies of this report.

Holl

0117

6885 0 29 1983

NW

45839 DocId: 32297834

Page 2

---

