# docid-32297194

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10218-10470

HQ

92-6436-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/10/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

APR, LOCAL 1730, INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMENS

ASSOCIATION, ASSOC, MISUR, CONTIN, ROOM 901, 265

WEST 14TH STREET, NY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/02/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

DocId: 32297194

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

FD-143 (Rev. 10-30-59)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1Q

UNITED STATES GOVEKNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

(Bufile

•SAC, New York (92-2568)

92-2818

) DATE:

5/10/63

JUNE

RE: Title

CORNELIUS J. NOONAN

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Character of Case

Field Office

NY 92-2568

Symbol Number

NY 3778-C*

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone) SON. AFT.

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Local 1730, International Longshoremen's Association

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Room 901, 265 West 14th Street, NYC:

14

3. Location of monitoring plant:

REC 8

NYO

•..

4.

Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorization 7/27/62; 8/24/62;

Installation 10/24/62

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dategiand places).

NONE

whil

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

NO

NO

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

-bureau (92-2818

(RM)

Yor!

(92-2588)

GPR: MGH (2)

Regletpred Mai1

DocId: 322971941

Page

1563

NO

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 05C 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

• i°

•te.

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

NO

e. If a party line, how many parties?

NO

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One in 44A block

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NONE

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See page 2A

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover

NONE KNOWN

same

subject:

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

NO

13.

any leat lar the surveillance lo entelda eganes feire nana, title and

NO

14.

Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

N/A

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

N/A

- 2 -

**

DocId: 32297191 Page 3

---

