# docid-32332540

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90102-10187

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 185-537-21

Released under the John

r. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/15/1975

6

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

18

DocId: 32332540

Page 1

---

## Page 2

263 (RAv. 12-19-67)

FEDERA'

CONFIDENTIAL

PUREAU OF IN' = TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

WASHINGION FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

WASHINGION FIELD

8/15/75

5/29 - 8/5/75

REPORT MADE BY

UNSUB; EXPLOSION AT CHANCERY OF

SA G.

DOUGLAS STAUFFER

CHARACTER OF CASE

MEXICO, 2829 16TH STREET, N.W.,

WASHINGTON, D.C., MAY 10, 1975

PFO - BOMBING - SUBVERSIVE

TYPED BY

sid

REFERENCES:

WFO report of SA G. DOUGLAS STAUFFER dated 7/2/75;

Miami airtel to Bureau dated 7/16/75;

WFO report of SA ROBERT J. REITWIESNER dated 7/28/75,

20 cap

captioned, "UNSUB; EXPLOSION AT THE SOVIET AIRLINES,

AEROFLOT, 1101 16TH STREET, N.W., WDC, 5/10/75,

EID; PFO - SUBVERSIVE";

Newark nitel to Bureau dated 7/23/75; and

WFO report of SA THOMAS J. MORRIS dated 7/31/75, bothy

captioned "UNSUB; BOMBING OF EMBASSY OF COSTA RICA,

WASHINGTON, D.C., 7/18/75, PFO; EID - SUBVERSIVE"

S IS ENO INPORMATION CONTAINED

Sps mAgIKSa

12-13-94

CONFIDENTAL

HEREIN IS URCUASSIFIED

EXCEPT THEIR CHORN

Classified by

8 Bt ga (JFK

Classified By

119

Exempt fro:: (

Category. 2.

01HE.X:03

$50

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

FINES

C& NONE

Date of Declassication Indefinite

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES KINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES KINO

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES-BELOW

7- Bureau

(185-537)

RECS Of LAMA: 4-7

T- USA,

madeforssc-Ireview

185-537-

21

1- USSS

iT FB/HQ ser request 4

- Newark (185-36) (Info) 6013(3a) JSG/Pt.

2- New York (185-372) (Info)

JERR

ASSIFICO

*T-101

REC-S

2/3/77

2- Miami (185-52) (Info)

1 - WFO

(185-272)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

2• HAG

/ - USDS

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

2//i5

Yow Fwd.

07/10

1-40474

ASS.

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

ADD. DISSEMINA

OSVY

CONFIDENTIALI I HE

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 18700-978-131

COVER PAGE

NH 54460

DocId: 32332540

Page 2

---

## Page 3

WEO 185-272

CONFIDENTIAL

ADMINISTRATIVE

The investigative period of this report overlaps

investigative period of previous report due to the fact that

WO was not in receipt of the results of investigation of

auxiliary offices at the time the last report was prepared.

Through established liaison, local law enforcement

agencies have been made aware of all pertinent facts con-

tained in this report.

It is noted that WFO is coordinating this investi-

gation with its investigation in WFO bombing cases captioned,

"UNSUB; EXPLOSION AT THE SOVIET AIRLINES OFFICE, AEROFLOT,

1101 16TH STREET, N.W., WASHINGTON, D.C., 5/10/75" (WFO

174-580), (Bufile 185-517) and "UNSUB; BOMBING OF EMBASSY

OF COSTA RICA, WASHINGTON, D.C., 7/18/75" (185-292) in

view of the similarities of the three bombings.

Appropriate leads regarding investigation at Miami

set forth in WO report dated 7/28/75.

Sources who were contacted in the Newark metro-

politan area who are familiar with matters involving the

Cuban community were:

NK 5173-S, NK 5775-PSI, NK 6030-PSI,

NK 2622-S, and NK 267075.70

The mal Laboratory has deterined that two

"Engorsele" pocketwatches recovered at the bombing of

the Costa Rican Embassy are identical to the pocketwatches

used at the captioned bombing and at the bombing of the

Soviet Airlines Office. Appropriate leads have been sent

to New York to contact U.S. Customs, John F. Kennedy

International Airport and the Mohertus Trading Company,

45 West 38th Street, New York, to determine the importation

and distribution of "Engorsele" wätches.

B

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 54460 DooId: 32332540 Page 3

---

## Page 4

WFO 185-272

CHEAPER CHIC

COOLEDENA

the National Liberation Front of Cuba, (FLNC), that he is

quite certain that

*the bomb blast at the Costa Rican Embassy

on 7/18/75, was the work of ABDALA, and that (FNJ) CALSON

(phonetic) was one of the persons directly involved in the

bombing

t's noted that WFO indices contain reference to

one FERNANDO CALZON ALVAREZ, aka FRANK CALZON, Cuban national,

born 1/29/44, who is reportedly an executive officer of th

grupacion Abdala Estudiantil (ABDALA) in the WDC area

CALZON was interviewed by WFO Agents on 8/5/75, results of which

are set forth.

LEADS

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

AT WASHINGION, D.C. (1) W1ll maintain liaison with

Metropolitan Police Department, WDC.

(2) Will maintain contact with appropriate sources.

COMEIDEULHVE

C*

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTTAL

HH 54460

DocId: 32332540

Page 4

---

