# docid-32307518

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10221

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-465

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/28/1961

1

SGI, WHEREABOUTS, ASSOC, FISUR, BLASI, DOMINIC, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32307518 Page 1.

207

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rov. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

xx Teletype

"Tolson

Belmon

Mohr -

Callahan›

1 shrer

RS PoL gach

Evans f

Mal one

Ru Manan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

DEFERRE

10-28-61

2-05 PiA CDST

EAH

i stutter

TO D

IRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

280748

ANTIRACKETEERING

SAMUEL Mi.

ANCANA, AKA AR. DAILY SUMMARY. RE WHEREABOUTS

OF GIANCANA, CG 6457-C ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT MICHAEL FACEBRA.

CHICAGO BUILDER AND ASSOCIATE OF GIANCANA, ADVISED INFORMANT

* THAT HE HAD A DINNER DATE WITH GIANCANA IN CHICAGO LAST WEEK.

§CHICAGO 6486-C% ADVISED GIANCANA WAS NOT PRESENT OCTOBER 25

LAST, HOWEVER, JOHN MATTASSA, RETIRED CHICAGO POLICEMAN AND

¡ASSOCIATE OF GIANCANA, EXAMINED SOME STOLEN MERCHANDISE BROUGHT

IN BY AN UNKNOWN FENCE WHICH CONSISTED OF A COAT AND A DIAMOND

•: MATTASSA TOLD THE FENCE HE WOULD LOOK AT THE MERCHANDISE

AND-ATTEMPT TO DISPOSE OF IT FOR HIM. THE FENCE INDICATED THAT

"NO ONE HAS ANY MONEY THESE DAYS AND HOT GOODS ARE HARD TO GET

RIDEOF." THE FENCE INDICATED THAT NO ONE HAD ANY MONEY BECAUSE

OF ALL"THE HEAT" REFERRING TO THE PRESSURE EXERTED ON THE

HOODLUMS UNDER THE INTENSIVE INVESTIGATION PRESENTLY BEING

an

CONDUGLED BY THIS OFFICE UNDER THE NEW FEDERAL LEGISLATIONO

PHYSICÃI SURVEILLANCE CONDUCTED THIS DATE ON DOMINIC BLASI

REVEALED HIS PRESENCE IN RIVER FOREST, SINOIS AND THE FACT

THAT HE WAS APPARENTLY MEETING WITH INDIVIDUALS IN HIS, BLASIS,

HOME, HOWEVER, GIANCANA'S PRESENCE WAS NOT NOTED.

ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

3:16 PM

2-BMP-i in

P: _5171-465

17 NOV 1

1961

ALPINFORMATION CONTAINE

ney HEREIN IS

UNCLASSIFIED

DATE24-20-94 BY SP586

6 NOV 3v190

If the intelligence containedlin the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32307518

Page 2

---

