# docid-32291677

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10453

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-130061-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/08/1964

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR

v9.1

¡ DocId: 32291677

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

+5-83', Rev, 4029-57)

ALL INFOSMATION CONTAINED

HESGIN IS UACLASSIFTED

EXCEPT THERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRED

Date: May 8, 1964

To:

Director, FBI

(Bufile :

Attention

:

( 105-2220

Title

VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA

Character

IS - CUBA

Reference

Ottawa cable 4/30/64

Enclosed are the toliowing cormunicatens seceiver teeM Three copie

RCMP letter dated May 5, 1964,

which is self-explanatory

Remarks:

(5)

Copy Ma

by routing slip for

COVER

Info

_ action

Miany: to

date....

-64

by..

R4:565

8-31-98

CLASSISED BY 5468 SUO/KSR

(JFK)

Ври /95/

Classified by 5648 SUDAGCL

Declassie: DAD (Fre)

Dissemination

_ May be made a received

May be made ‹ indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be mre without further clearance with ROMP(s)

Following officeswuld be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Miami

Status with thiffie:

RUC

Do not write in space

below

105-

130061-

eggau (incs

3

-

Miami

(1

MLI :

(3)

ENCLOSURE,

12:

fart. SEC.

MEG- 104

SECRET

DocId: 32291677 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Rennedy Assassination Regggs Collection Act of 1992 (IT USC PIUT Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AEL CORAEERCACAOT TO BE

ADORESSLO. -

THE CANNONER,

CATANIA

SECRET

FILE NO..:. 275-17-34

HEADQUARTERS

57213

OTTAWA, 8,

CAMADA

May 5, 1964.

Dear fir. Innes:

This will confirm and erlarge upon

Infor.ret.Ion

regarding Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Labera

verealis

supplied your office over the past week.

RODRIGUEL arrived In Canada at Halifax.

21, 1964 on board a Cubana Airlines flight

Frague frot Esrana.

Upon deplaning at

H.S., RODNIGUEZ immediately

ralira to conadian imigration euthorities for

made ayrli-

politicad asylum in

tals country.

he indicated his ultimate destination was the U.s.A.

where he planned to reside permanently.

their home at Havene,

Cuba his wife and two children.

RUDHIGUEL Identified

himself as

an officer of the

Cüban Intelligence Service (CUIS) and advised that

he had brought with him numerous official CUIS

inclusing actual case files.

Interrogation of RODRIGUEL conducted in

Satana establishod tia bona fices as a Guban

intolüigence officer

snd indicated the authenticity

documents he brought with

Ledge of CUIS methious,

operations,

officers and

spelts throughout

Latin America

1s extengive, and

abriously a very

extonsive debriefing of this men

was incicated.

of the information RODRIGUEZ

possessed directly

concerned Canade, and on April

195l he departod Canada for dashington, D.c.

wider escort by

officer of the C.I.A.

macustedly much interestins information from this

source will be made

available by C.I.A. to your

and other interested American Agencies.

Yours very truly,

Mulladelic

Bordelesu),

Assistant Commissioner,

Director

Security end Intelligence.

Innes, bassi,

100

williaton Streot,

orra, ontario.

Tx:

JUL 2 1 197,

DocId: 32291677

Page 3

105-130061-4

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F, Kennedy. Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107 HoteT.

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL 404446

CE TO LE

ADDRESID.

THE SON:

N. C.M. POSICE.

SECRET

1744°

FILENO D 973-17-34

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA, 8,

CANADA

Hay 5, 1964.

Deer Dir. Innet:

This

wal confirm and enlarge upon

infornation

reciding Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahora

verbally supplied

woor office over the past reok.

2.

R0baz0Ua errived In Conade at Hallfsz

on Apr11

21, 2d

ci board a Cubana Airlines flight

en route Frone red Lavore.

won deplaning at

Kalifer, LoS. tunicaz incociotoly made eppli-

cotion to beroci." imigration euthorities 1or

political caring is

this coutry.

At the same time

he Incicated 11:

altimate costinction was the U.S.A:

whore is plard t redide pornorently.

he left in

cuba tie wife and two children.

RODRICan 1donalad himsell as an officer of the

cuban atollino: inevice (oble) and advisod that

he has brount!

ris nurerous official CUIS

documents, inciting actual case files.

3.

Intorreaction of RODRIQUEZ conducted in

Ottons

bone fides as a Cuban

intolitanco oilton the indicated the authenticity

of the documonia he brought with him.

His know-

ledgo u: COIS collois,

operations, officers and

agonts throughout istan America 13 extensive, and

obviouriy a vor ticsive debriefing of this men

was Indicated.

•ono of the informetion RODRIGUEZ

possosred diracli: ecncerned Canda, and on april

22, 150l: he dearied conde for lashington, D.C.

under escort bi as

offlcer of the c.I.A.

Undoubtedly muci. Interesting information from this

sourco hill be rade availablo by c.I.A. to your

own and other Interested Americen Agencies.

Yours very truly,

(J.R.w. Bordeleau),

Assistent Commissioner,

Director

Security and Intelligenoo.

Mr.

Mogs

ice innes,

c/o

United.a.ag

200 veilington Street,

OTJANA, Ontario.

¿TAS FOURSING "S PASSER FOR THE INFOES

Mot tors.

DocId: 32291677

Page 4

105-130061-4

---

