# docid-32331321

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90096-10267

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-231

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/08/1966

35

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32331321

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John"F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

Es;

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT:D.

CHARLES G. DONNELLY, on 4/4, 5, 7, 14, 18, 27; 5/11, 18, 19,

23, 26/66.

The period exceeds 90 days because it includes inserts

received from another office

after prior report was submitted.

Information re identity of telephone subscribers in

the Newark Division was made available by ALMA A. RICHARDSON,

Legal Dept., N.J. Bell Telephone Co., Newark, N.J.

INFORMANTS

Identity of source

NY T-1

NY 3610-C-TE

NY T-2

NY 4456-C

NY T-3

WF 1108-C

NY T-4

ANN MC MANUS

Switchboard Operator

40 Central Park South

NYC (protect by request)

NY T-5

NY 5542-C-TE

NY T-6

NY 4008-C-TE

NY T-7

PCI PETER K. CHACONAS

Contacted By

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA ARTHUR P. DUFFY

SA PHILIP C. LEWIS

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA ROBERT V. WALKER

SA WILLIAM DAVID KANE

SA DONALD A. RIVERS

SA RICHARD T. MARQUISE

LEADS

are conducting current investigation on the subject.

B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32331321 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-851

PGD: dbr

1.

LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

By letter to the Bureau dated February 1, 1966,

Wishington Field requested the Legat, London,

England to

• conduct

investigation to determine whether JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE,

CHARLES TOURINE and DINO VINCENT CELLINI are licensed for

ployment in any gambling establishment or are registered as owner

or part-owner of any gambling establishment in London, Englana..

1(u

By letter dated March 15, 1966, Legat, London advised

that the above request was. furnished to Criminal Intelligence

Squad Officers, New Scotland Yard.

The names of NESLINE, TOURINE

and CELLINI were known to the Criminal Intelligence Unit and

information now developed from an informant of one of the police

officers who has connections in the gambling casinos, indicates:

that at the moment TOURINE and NESLINE are looking for a club

in which to invest, but have not yet located one.

This informant

also states that while CELLINI is a skilled trainer of croupiers

he has had little or no experience, at least in London, of

NY I-T, on April 28, 1966, stated that JOSEPH FRANCIS

NESLINE has a substantial

interest in the Colony Club in

London, England, and has lift the operation of this club to

DINO CELLINI.

This source further indicated that CHARLES

TOURINE owns the Friar's Club in London, England, but the

source has been unable to determine who

is operating this

club for TOURINE.

NY I-I on May 25, 1966, stated that neither NESLINE

or TOURINE actually own a piece of any gambling clubs in London,

but are trying

to get connected with them.

In addition, TOURINE

supposedly has hired lawyers who are trying to get him permission

to enter England.

- 5-

92-2989-231

DocId: 32331321

Page 3

---

