# docid-32293752

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10212-10028

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-12-455

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45760 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/07/1963

PAGES :

5

SUBJECTS:

CIP, GAMBLING, CONSPR, CONV AND SUBS EVENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45760

18

DocId:32293752 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 94- 55A-Sub

RE: JOHN ELI STON, aka.

I'TWI

(DL 166-116)

JFK Law 10(a)2

JEK Law 11(a)

REVIEWED BY ESWUFK TASK FORCE

7-9-98 las

NELaASi

HIS FULL

HELEASE

IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

RE: SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka.

IGA

(DL 162-129)

On 10/2/63 Bureau Agents observed LITTLE'S

runner MARVIN COX driving in the downtown area of Dallas

with a young blonde female. It was noted he had changed

the license plates on his car and now had dealer's plate

P2 7401.

RE: GIIF - Wichita Falls, Texas

(DL 94-50)

District Attorney STANLEY KIRK, Wichita Falls,

Texas, has advised Sheriff VaNCE is scheduled to be the

subject of an inquiry by the Grand Jury.

He explained

VANCE had taken a trip to Key West, Florida, several

months ago to pick up a prisoner and had taken a woman,

GREDTRUDE MARIE CAVET with him. KIRK stated VANCE and

CAVET registered as man and wife while in Florida and

then brought the prisoner back with them to Wichita Falls,

KIRK further advised this woman was arrested for

after shooting

∞ 3 =

62-9-12-455

'HH 45760 DocId:32293752 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-Sub

the Wichita County Jail awaiting trial and on 12/6/62,

received a five year probated sentence for murder with-

out malice. According to KIRK, Sheriff VANCE was having

an affair with CAVEl while she was his prisoner. He advised

she is willing to go before the Grand Jury and testify

as to her relationship with the Sheriff.

CAVET is deseribed as a white female, in her 30's,

and she has FBI #147326E.

RE:

HARRY REIMER URBAN

ITWI

(DL 165-114)

On 10/1/63, Bureau Agents observed URBAN

on the north side of Dallas driving his 1959 white

and lavender Oldsmobile and accompanied by a young

blonde and a small child.

The car had Texas license

PE 1388 which is registered to a JOHN PRICE fOr a 1962

Chrysler. URBAN was observed by the Agents going to a

shopping center and then to a residence recently built

in Northeast Dallas at 10512 Robindale Drive. URBAN

was known to reside in an apartment house on the

northwest side of Dallas. The blonde has not been

identified to date.

RE: LAWRENCE IRVIN PERKINS

ITWI

(DL 165-148)

Recently Dallas received a request from San

Diego Office to conduct investigation of the subject

who had been reported by the TRP, Del Mar, California,

as a professional gambler and possibly a bookmaker,

fronting as a horse owner. Prior to the receipt of

this, Dallas had received information from DL 185-C-TE

that PERKINS was a known crooked gambler operating out

• of Las Vegas and associated with Dallas crooked gambler

previously identified another crooked gambler and associate

of DAVIS and PERKINS as a man named MELVIN.

San Diego

advised that PERKINS had been in contact with Dallas

telephone FL 1-1759.

This phone is listed to ALLEN MINTER,

Apartment 214, 3919

Inwood Road.

No record of MINTER

could be located through credit

and criminal checks, Dallas.

HH 45760 DocId: 32293752 Page 3

---

