# docid-32195995

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

DENTIFICATON FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10264-10488

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1639

Released under the John

' Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 55355 Date:

11-24-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BELMONT. A. H.

TO: TOLSON

TITLE:

DATE: 11/22/1963

PAGES: 81

SUBJECT:

CC, REQ, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

12/29/1998

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC 19 MEMO, 3 TTY, 5 NEWS ARTICLE, 3 ADMIN PAGES, 3 COVER SHEETS,

1 TELEGRAM, 5 LTRS, 1 R/S, 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS, 1 LHM

I. 55355 DocId: 32195995

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2 - Mr.

(1

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

T.

Mintz

Daly)

W. Leavitt

F. Phillips

E. Burns

a attorney conoral

toI, FBI

Ray I9a 1976

S. SENATE SELRCT CI

ITTES ON

INTELLICIICK ACTIVITIES (SSC):

049 SSC letter dated

g delivery of certain

by the FBi.

sosandun to being submitted

126

torlal being furnlahed herevith

ted you way

Tanthia conneetton,your

larly dravn to sertal 105-82553-4711.

for your rasad of thie mo

a le being furnished

elevente

Baclosures (2)

62-116395

APPROVED:

ASSOCIDE s

Comp. Syst.

Ext Affairs.:

DeD: AD Adr

Gen, Inves

Dep. AD Inv. Sh/eunident.

Assti Dir.:

Inspection!

Admin.

Laboratory.

Legal Counse

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.

Tratning

mat

1 -

The Deputy Attorney

REC 104

Attentions

Michael

General

• Shaheen, Jr.

Special

Dir

Counsel for

Dap. AD

Intelligence Coordination

42112385

Dep. AD

1039

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.'

Comp. Syst.

(10)

Ext: Affairs -=

- ENCLOSURE

3 JUN

4 1976

Filos & Com. -

Gon. Inv..

TO

Idant.

BE/HAND DELIVERED BY THE OFFICE OF

Inspection

VA

Intell.

ONYT

Laboratory

Logal Coun. _

Plon. & Eral. -

Spoc. Inv..

Training

Telephone R

Director

48 & JIN

MAIL, ROOM I

TELETYPE UNIT

1 0 1976

GPO: 1975 0 - 594-120

55355

DocTd: 32195995

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

FABLE OF CONTINIS

(UPMS)

NON-PERTINENT

EXCISED (

Page

HEADINGS

Recent TBi Wich Lights

Communist Party:

USA

TANSAC HEN

Communisn and the Negro Movement

Prospout yo sotten Under thinternal seauty

Penetration 01 Soviet her Intelligence

Segyices

Tho Fedora Case

(H(4)

(8) (4)

The Tophat Case

ON COCITATUED

FaRe NTS UNCLASSTFIED EXCEP!

WHERE SHORN OTHERISE.

& The BEcknack) Case

Y(S)

& Tho (is ter]Casoy(5)

4

Tho (Primal Casey(Sl

& Tha Gimo) Case f(S)

6-2844

Classified by

•RMBI

mide

Declassily on: DADA

51K

(s)

(Tho Candy. Case

& Penetration of tho Yugosav]InteLLgen¢ Servaco

5

Denstration of Soviet IlLor

Operations AW, "488 md

5

sitting

5/28/98 me

Scientific Counterattacks

CLASSIFIED BY Seb& S20/md 6

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

11 6

Cuban Matters

Coverage of ion-soviet-blos Matters 5)

JEK)

Major Criminal Investigations

nel without the

your commitre.

express approval

of

the

and the content may not

nation outside your Committee,

I's use

This document is prepared in response

to

FBI

be.

disclosed to ünauthorized person-

limited to offenal proceedings by

your request and is not for dissemi-

Holla Case

Baker Case

Antitrust Investigation of

SECRET

Steel Industry

3Đ

57090-28

MNCLOSURE

NW 55355 DocId: 32195995

Page 3

---

## Page 4

18 hid

668-34

KEVIAL

TENDS

S0.

CANTAIN

FIED

NH 55355

BECONT TRI HIGH LIGITS

Cosmunist Party, USA

NON-PERTINENT DATA

ExeISED

SECRET

Sio Soviet leadership in loscow has expressed lts

wholchenrted approval of the lendership of Cus Hall, General Secre-

tasy, Comunist Perty, USA (CHIBA), and has described the CRUSA as

being anoir

tie leading Cormunist Farties outside the socialist

Orbita

Diuce late 2900, tue Soviets have furnished the CRUSA with

41,643, 035 to

financo its subvorsivo activities.

Ariost 5500,000

of this sion

was furniched the CRUSA during 1903.

te. party has

Ward Secretary, Soviet Lission to tho United Nations,

is the soviet braison represontative with the crushe de excranges

icrofiled dossages with his CUsA contact, who 1a ous source

(HY 094-27) 1200

nakes nersonal

contacts whenever urrent nessages

830 to sa exchanger 12 addition, the boviets send instructions

directly fron koscow to cho cruse via short-wivo radio broadcasts

1a borso Colu, nose nessages are receivod by our source.

H-w..

Since 1958, representatives of the CPUSA controlled by us

Tolavo nade tousteon sonarate tries to the Soviet Union and Satellite

countrics dos tho misposo of holding confidential discussions wich

cop moved ena caterizo officials a us representative mio is

oue coutco (0g 3821-0% has recently roturned to this country

astor sponding almos n month in the soviet Union conterr in with

top loriot officialolend ve are still debriefing hine hescadios the

ascessination of penaldent konnody, sourca has ladlested the bussints,

fool Presidont kennedy's assassination is a very serious situation,

wore synutletic to the extect they tolled church bells and criti

•cined autl-ichnedy feeling in Red China as "bennath contemot.". thes

•Sovicts felt cortin interests in the United States would ur1. 1ze

the assassination to soop negotiations with bussis and socialist

countries, sicace Cuba and then spread the var. As a result of this

feeling, Russia immediately vent inco a stato of national alert. As

e result of our coverage of these trips wa have dissorinated to

officials o2 Our Covermient much sournt aiter intelligence data which

has been used in shaping foreign policy.

For example, in Aucust,

THERE

1soe, re ovuninod valuable intornation pertaining to cho Sovlets:

roactlon to the signing os the nuclear test ban treaty.

The Crusa in assisting the soviets on a very limited basis

and on a high lavel in their Intelligence operations in this comtry.

da October,

1903, Loldbashkan requested his CPUJA contact (NY 021-02)

to fuznish

the nanos of three individuals sho are Aerican citizens

not nosociniod with the Cruss in order that the Soviets could use

these individuals in tueir intelligence operations in the United

Stutes.

I400e tinies

have not as yet been furnished to the soviets.

Whea they aro, they will bo names of people we will control.

Declass

Conusen and the lopso lovenant

the COUSA is currontly concentrating its efforts on

tho racial unrest váth tho hopaos establishing a political

reapon la the form of a legro-lator coalition.

A key to the

This demimon!

el a ano for dissemi

ration madai-?a

201r Coor.

SECRET

The suproas

To"!

DocId:32195995

Page 4

---

## Page 5

4419

Penetration

es Soviet-bloc Intelligence service CY SIGNE

Soviet bloc countries are conducting & mssive,

ver,-coorcinatod espionage neuech against this country.

As of

November 20,

1008,

there wore 285 knows or highly suspocted (S

Soviet bloc

incolligence ofticers in the United States assigned

to the varzous

establishments of the soviet blo in this country.

to thuart theis efforts ve have conducted an all out

offensive to perecrate their organizacion, defect their perconnel

200

develop those

defectors in the very heart of their inc0111-

tence apparatus.

have been unusually successful in developing

such detectors.

(ul

The Fedora

Case

For exange, one soviet ofticer (code name fedora)

beran cooperating so lay, 1032.

He is an officer of the kes

(committee o. Stase Secually 01

the Josh) assigned to the Soviet

Miasion to the United Nations.

He has furnished infornation

regarding approsina ely G0 agents

being operated by KOB offleers

in various countries of the wor1e.

sis of thesa are actually

FBi double agents operating against the 1us (3)CW

This offices aico furnishea

Inside informatios fron

KGB headquarters.

Tol

example,

Jons Budenko, an anerican

engineer, and leor ivaow, & kes ancong employee,

were arrested

on espionage chaages Outober 29, 1903.

Three othes KGB officers

stenched to the Soviot

Mission to the

United Nations vere expelled

from the United States lor their complicity in the conspiracy.

Our detector was nole to tell us of the extrone consternation

et Ros headquarters.

One third of the KGB scientific espionage

officers in New York

had been lost at one strole f(W

To Jophat Casel(S)(4

Jack Idward

Dunkep was an Arny sergeant assigned to

the National Security Agency (NSA) who comitted suicide the

night of July 22/23, 1903.

His widow, on August 20, 1963, 11S

nished Army investigators

creive classilice Governuent documenes

she clained she lound in her attle efter hie death.

After the

PsI entered the case Augus: 32, 1963,

additionel classified

documents were found and Dunapa widow adnitted Dunley had

aimitted to her before

his suicide

that he was selling informa

tion to the Soviets.

We received verification of this from an excellent

source.

In 2961 we lad develoned & Sovlat intelligence ofticer

(code name Topiat) who had furnianed valuable data to us until

his return to the Soviet Union. rior to his return he agreed

to fill a drop in Moscow on specutiod dates in Jung, july or

Auguet, 1903, and placo & spocliled signal.

CIA agreed to

clear the drop with State Departient approval.

Our source

made no signal on any oi the agreed dates.

CiA was Willing

NW 55355 DooId: 32195995 Page 5

---

## Page 6

INPRE

cheer the crop in duly, but state declined

•hermit it.

With

Btate approval cid cleared the drop in August and round a very

inportant nessage wilch said,

in part:

"last important agent

Jack coward oubep, & FLInore Street,

Glen Burnie, Maryland, at

he cano to dossyuk hinself May, 1981."

(ilkhail Kostyur was

Soviet Air' Attache,

Soviet

1958, to August,

206201/5

Anarysie of the complete message and the nanner 11

wich so nas placed in the crop indscates it was probably praced

15 the drop in June, 1903.

Find the Sinte Department pernicted

cha to clear the coop 2a early July, eppropriate measures coutd

nave been taken against dunlap pror to his zurcide.

Te Nicknark Cass

larch N003, (ve successfully dorected and Operated(s

in place

anothes

the Covlet Mission to tho United

Natons

§code

He hastfurnished us documents of (S

mazy signinicance cluding Bovide aluations or the defense (S

{nst2112t201g

in the

ane Unitod Statosls

Tores has

advised

at these soviet

"docunents

accurate reports of equinent and canabilltlestos the

157 - D90N

2can Air

Telense

is tima chey

were gration.

latornation

on our installations

obtained foy the vorters throurd recontas

eance and through

mobile electronic devicos. (s)

Canie

source 1s

in the Soviet Union.

(5) 18 2910248

ingenious

method he reseat

comunicatod with u:

turnished (S]

information

significant

mlitary intelligance.

The liter

Dese

During

Noverber

2952, (ve defeccedand are now devoloping

C5]

• Soviet intelligence officer

code nane niter enriove

United Nations

Secretarist

a capect that he will be sue pace.

furaisb

indornacion

a solidical nature,

Which he has agraed to do (5)

Time (prime Gase (5)

Marly in 1903

developed as a defectos in place the (S]

Clerk at the Pollah

United

nations Delegation in New Yorl

(code nans Prine)

Trough

Intormation furnished us by this (S]

GONECE,

the united Biates Governent on. daily basis is able to

(S]

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

resentative in Now Yorke

evaluated this source noting that

could not bo bought for

• 6011275 212

I mould very weil prove

communications intelligence superhull or this centurya(s,

REVISWED

TY

NSA

ON

10/29/98: dt

D

• Recast

I FOLL

AELEASE IN PART

SLUNGE

TOTAL DENI

55355

DooId: 32195995

Page 6

---

## Page 7

The Gimme Cas

optember 17,

1952, the cooperacion ot almember

Czechoglovakian

united Nations Missiouras obtained

(code nano(Ginne)

through this source we havo putained (s)

volanieous

intornation

concerning Caechoslovakian Intelligence

operations

and targets

the United States.

This particular

defector in place has returied to frechoslovalala and has agreed

furnish information fron chere.S

The Candy CaseyeS

Nour informant

(S]

refugee

Proscen.

dispatch to

assignonte, he

double agent

the united

States with high-level intelligence

successiully carried out an extronely value

sole under

the United States

Penetration ot

the

goslav

1900g

developed the Firat Secratery of tbe (S)

Yugoalev

MIDASSY

Alergandas Kenboil, 89 & source.

Trough hin

i penscrating pictore of turos lav Latelligenco (S

operations in

States,

as weld as policy planstol the C

Yugoslav Governmeat 2a

caling wich zmeortant political situsS.

Elons.

As a result of

normation furnished by this source,

actor has

initiate

¿o neutgalize Bis Governmont enpleyees

isnont to have

Valued

Xugoslar Intelligence sources.

Penetration of Boulet

112e

cal Onerations] E(a)

Important in the

soviet bloc interdigence system a

the undercover or illegal agent sent to inis councry who has

no diplomatic or official

He is the sophisticate of

espionage who uses fraudulent

docunents, claborate codes, secret

2.218 g

microilln and covert tinancial support to avoid detection.

Neivoris of illegal agonis segve to boister the esgionage ®ct¿v

itles or Soviet bloc officials and are prepared to tute over all

espionage operations in the event of war or other energency wiich

resulte in a breai oi diplonate rolations. (fl(u)

To noutraline the threat posed by this illegal appara

tus we have resorted to highly

conventional and inaginative

techniques which have resulted in

our penetration o? & numer

of these operationg.

One of these operations luvolves the eno

Soviet illegal arents using the gontailes of Robert l. Baltch

and Joy Ann Baltch who vere arrested by us in Washington, D.

this summer and are presently awalting triel.

SECHICK

NW 55355 DocId: 32195995 Page 7

---

## Page 8

(5)

INPD

Government wil

ass in this prosecution w.

be a Soviet illegal

agent who was successfully doubled by us dver four years ago

and has been operating ageinst the Soviets evor since.

He 1S

a Soviet Military Intelligence Officer (codo name Karot) who:

entered this country through fraudulent docunents in December

1958•

He was uncovered by us two nontha aiter his entry u

Scontific Countera

aals

SE

One

host valuable contributions in the security

field has been

Xhe procurement of

materials

En the Unlted States for use

These operas

tions have involved the

opening of intricate locking nechanisus

Cs]

on sales, the penetration

and subsequent restoration of their

contente.

7 as of today,

the valuo ofl

material (S]

obtained dy

this Bureau from 17 foreign establistments has been (s

$10,055, 500. the real worch of the matorial, however,

lies ix

its incalculable intelligence valua to agencies and officials of

our Govérnment. (X)

"JEK Act 6 (1) (B))

Cuben Matters

Our investigations in the Cuban area have been most

intense since Castro ascended to power January 1, 1959.

We have

BENDS

concentrated not only on pro Gastro individuals but on such

IDENTIFY

croups as the Fair Play for Cuba Conmittee,

organized in New York:

SENSITIVE

Cry in April, 1950, to serve as a propaganda organ for Castro.

fLee Harvey Oswald,

accused assassinator of President Kennecy,

FOREiGN

clained to head a chapter of this froup in New Orleans.

INTELLIGENCE

We have Specialized coverage o? (three high-level Cuban(S

SOURCES

intelligence agents whose activities are being directed from Cuba

AND / OR

through clandesting

METHODS

awelve Cuban alstens sent to une united scates i.

the Cuban Government under the guise of refugees to carry out

intelligence activities against this country are cooperatiat

the IXI and thoir activitles are now being directed against the

Cuban Government

In late October, 1963, one of our sources,) who has tho(s]

confidence of Cuban

reign WRist Raul dos Garcea

and the

Minister's

Ampassador to 302712

Taut Roa bourà,

was sent to brasil to visit vin ran. Hoa touri.

Vital intornation

concerning the

extent of Castro's influence in

South Anerica and

futuro plans of the Cuban Government was obtained

covorage or lion-soviot poc Matters

X(S)

(5) We maintain coverage

of certain non-Soviet-blod countries

In order to produce intelligence information of valuo to

the variou

United States Goveriment agencies.

accomplishing

One of the principal moane of

this is by mintaining tochnical survelllances

foreign aiplomatic establisments in this country.

of today we

have(7 such surveillances oTairferent countries

NPDE

HOROSES Y

ROTH

NW 55355 DooId: 32195995

Page 8

---

## Page 9

NDES

Frequeatly

o institute special covos

y to establish

the

activities and catacts of various internat shally known

Ligures who visit this country such as Madame Ngo Dinh Nhu of S

south Vietnam, chadds. Jagan, Marxist srime linister or British

Guiana, and Cathal Goulding, Chloî of Stals of the Irish Repub)

Lich' arny who was chare lase month to obtain United States support

for his organizatio.

We have just completed special coverage vi

this nature on Juan bosch, deposad President of the Dominican

Repubiie.

This was done at the specific request of the Honorable

Ralph A. Dungan, of the White House Stall, and resultod in pro

ducing intornation showing that Bosch is conducting an active

campaign urging that

the Dominican people overthrow the army.

As a result

o% Qui coverage of Cheddi Jagan,

Learned that his united states representative 1s considoring

sking the cupans anc russians to prepare a plan for guerrilla

varcare, in Britieb Guiana.

Te have aiso come up with strong CS.

indications the Soviets

aro financially supporting Jagan through (SJ

communist contacte in the

United States.

Major Crâninal investiga

Mosta Case

che two principa

cases in which James Riddle Holia,

President of the Meansters

Union, is now under indiciment include

an anoictment of dotta and six ochers at dashvible on Hay 9, 1303,

on charges of Obstruction of Justice and the indictment of Hoffa

and seven others in Chicago on June&, 1963, for mail fraud, fraud

by wire and conspiracy.

Trial date in the Mashville case sot for

January G, 1964,

and tentative ¿rial date on the Chicago case set

for February 3, 1961.

Baker Case

We have received

thi ty-oight requests from the Depart-

ment for inquiries regarding porsible contrice or interest ox

fraud against the Government onche part of Robert &. Barer,

former Senate Majority Secretary.

Antitrust Investigation of-Steel Industry

On October 21, 1983,

the inferust Division requested

ve locate witnesses and review hotel registration records to

determine whether representatives of steal companies were in

Now York Cray and Cincimati, Ohio, for neetings on the same

dates from 1955 to date. This is to assist a grand jury inquiry

authorized by the Attorney General and former President Kennedy

looking into pricing activitios o1 steol conpanies on four major

steel products.

This grand jury in gifect is a continuation of

the 1902 grand jury inquiry relative to the increase of steel

prices on April 10, 1962.

The investigation requested of the

Bureau by the Antitrust Division has been conpleted.

Case Involving Bombing of Candian Freighter

To ara investigating the bombing on September 6, 1963,

at Chicago of the Canadian freighter,

"Howard L. Shaw," which

appears to bo a diroci result of a juriadictional dispute between

Cic

NW 55355 DooId: 32195995

Page 9

---

