# docid-32336759

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10154

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/29/1959

1

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32336759

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the iphr F. Kennedy Assassination Récoras

Collection Aot of 1992

L11

USC 2107 Hotel.

*-tiniá- 11

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

U. S. OSPARTMENT OF AJSTICE

4E. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

GGMMUNCATIONS SECTIEN,

MI. DeLoach

Mr. McGuire

OCT 29 1959

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Rosen.

TYPE

Mr. Tamm

URGENT

10-29-59

"Japy sens KAT (i)

ITO DIRECTOR, FBI, AND SAC, ATLANTA

Classifled

S03 p0C(5

wiss Gandy

FROM

SAC, MIAM

1P

Declassity

ON. DAOKWAI8S

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYOg- IS-ÇUBA• RE MIAMI TELS YESTERDAY AND PHONE

Inghae

CALL FROM ATLANTA TODAY REQUESTING INDICES CHECK RE LAZARO MARTINEZ,

ROGER REDONDO, AND JESUS LA ROSA, WHO ARE REGISTERED IN ROOM TEN

TEN, GEORGIAN HOTEL, ATLANTA, GA•

IMIAMI INDICES REFLECT ON

(rrm)

MARCH TWENTY, LAST,[MM SIX EICHT ZERO-ASTÉRISKJ INFORMED CUBAN (5J

CONSULATE MIAMI, HAD BEEN ADVISED BY (CUBAN STATE DEPT &THAT

SPECIAL MISSION COMPOSED OF COMMANDER ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO AND

TWELVE OTHERS, INCLUDING ROGER REDONDO AND JESUS LA ROSA, WERE

SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE IN MEAMI, FLAO, AT TWELVE NOON VIA MILITARY

PLANE .X

MARCH TWENTY FOUR, LAST, ISSUE OT QUOTE, DIARIO LAS AMERICAS,

END QUOTE, SPANISH LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED IN MIAMI, REFLECTS

THAT ON MARCH TWENTY TWO, LASI, COMMANDER ELOY GUTIERREZ MÉNOYO AND

HIS GROUP VISITED THAT NEWSPAPER IO EXPRESS THANKS FOR THE GREAT

WORK THE NEWSPAPER DID, AND IS STILL DOING FOR THE TRIUMPH OF THE

CUBAN REVOLUTION AND IN SUPPORT OF FIDEL CASTRO. ARTICLE RE-

ELECTEI MENQYO WAS ACCOMPANIED EY TEN CAPTAINS, INCLUDING ROGER

QUOTE REDO END QUOTE AND JESUS LA ROSA.

MIAMI INDICES NEGATIVE

LAZARO MARTINEZO POSSIBILITY EXISTS IHIG

LONWAG LES 2OR1 8-

28

MENOYO •

REG- 94

END AND ACK PLS

CLASSURLO BY 5U68-SUAfuL23 NOV 13 1959

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

sppge

WA12-01

PM

FBI

OV 18 1959%5

JFR

REE INFORMATION CONTAINED

.NM

dozie

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EASEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

AT

OK FBI AT JEL

DocId: 32336759 Page 2

---

