# docid-32295666

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10442

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-764

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

rasassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Casef:WI 45945 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DODGE, HAROLD F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/07/1967

PAGES:

49

SUBJECTS:

JRO, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, RES, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2, INDEX PAGESa-d

N9.1

HH 45945

DocId: 32295666

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA: 92-113

On February 15, 1967; SD 1064-C-TE advised that

he and JIMMY FRATIANNO and some of the other members (of

Los Angeles La Cosa Nostra (LCN) family) whom he did not

identify, have furnished JOHN ROSSELLI with numerous

complaints regarding FRANK DESIMONE's lack of leadership

in running the family, and that eventually DESIMONE will

be called back to Chicago for an appearance before

representatives of the commission.

ROSSELLI will present

the charges in an effort to get DESIMONE deposed as family

Source stated that DESIMONE will try once or twice

successfully to keep from going back to Chicago, but on

about the "third order" from the Chicago boss, he will

have to go back and answer the charges. The

informant

said the biggest problem now in the Los Angeles family

besides the lack of leadership, was that all of its

members are becoming old and will die off and no new

blood is being brought in.

He felt that there are only

three or four persons now living in Southern California

who could even qualify for membership and that in order

to revitalize the Los Angeles family, they would have to

import young members from the East.

With regard to JOHN ROSSELLI's arrest by the

sheriff in Las Vegas for failure to register as an ex-con,

source stated this was a bitter blow to ROSSELLI and that

the word is out that the sheriff was acting on higher

orders.

He indicated that if they find

out where those

orders came from,

"Someone may get hurt" (The interviewing

Agents received the impression that if anyone in the Jewish

mob in Las Vegas is responsible through political connections

in local government or otherwise for having ROSSELLI rousted,

there will be retribution by the family).

LA 4412-C-TE on 12/29/66 furnished information

that he and his wife spent Christmas. Eve at the residence

of Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH LANDOLEL, EBI No. 67686. After dinner,

JAMES ROBERT IANNONE, aka Danny Wilson, came in.

LANDOLFI told WILSON that prior to making a trip

back East, they were questioned at their residence by the

FBI concerning JOHN ROSSELLI, one PARIGI, and FILIPPO SACCO.

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId: 32295666 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA. 92-113

LANDOLFI said the FBI asked him if he knew a FILIPPO

SACCO and he had told them, "No"

LANDOLFI's wife then

said to WILSON,

"You know who FILIPPO SACCO is, don't you?

I'hat's JOHNNY ROSSELLI

WILSON answered yes as though

true identity of ROSSELLI.

micH.

conversations with PAPA JOHN PRIZIOLA Of Detroit, and

JOHN ROSSELLI of Los Angeles, he learned that the Detroit

LCN family has refused to allow the Chicago LCN family

to purchase the unassigned 15 points in the Frontier Hotel.

The Detroit family still has the 15 points and the Chicago

family leaders are angry at Detroit LCN family leaders for

not allowing them to share in the Frontier Hotel.

on 5/25 and 6/6/67, SD 1064-C-TE advised that

JOHN ROSSELLI of LoS Angeles

is handling West Coast matters

for the Chicago family and has been handling the Chicago

family's attempt to obtain 15 points from the Detroit

family in the Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas.

Source said

he believes JOHN ROSSELLI was in

Chicago the week of May 29 to June 2, 1967, as he was

unable to contact him in Los Angeles and knows he was not

in Las Vegas.

THE ABOVE INFORMATION SHOULD BE HANDLED IN A MOST

CIRCUMSPECT MANNER AND UNLESS THE SOURCE IS WELL CONCEALED,

REPORTED ONLY ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE PAGES OF THE REPORT IN

WHICH IT IS USED.

THE INFORMATION FROM THIS INFORMANT IS NOT

TO BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY INDIVIDUAL, OUTSIDE THE BUREAU.

LEADS

LAS VEGAS

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA: Will continue to conduct

investigation concerning ROSSELLI's activities in Las Vegas.

-D -

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId: 32295666 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA. 92-113

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Will conduct

continuing

investigation

concerning

• ROSSELLI'S

activities.

INFORMANTS

LA T-1

LA 1-2

LA T-3

IV 10-C

RAYMOND BARATTA

Dutchess County Judge,

Poughkeepsie, New York

JOSEPH JUIDICE,

Dutchess County Judge,

Poughkeepsie, New York

LA 4367-C-TE

LA 4367-C-TE

LA 4845-PC

LA T-4

LA T-5

LA T-6

- LA T-7

LA T-8

LA T-9

LA T-10

PCI

/JEK Act 6 (4)

CSLA 4757-C

LA T-11

LA T-12

PCI

Lt. M.B. PHILLIPS,

Intelligence Division,

Los Angeles Police Department

ALLEN DUNCAN, Administrator,

Sansum Medical Clinic,

Santa Barbara, California

PCI

Palm

Springs, California

-E -

COVER PAGE

IN 45945 DocId:32295666 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA: 92-113

LA T-13 :

LA T-14

LA T-15

LA T-16

LA T-17

LA T-18

LA T-19

LA T-20

LA T-21

LA T-22

HW 45945 DocId:32295666 Page 5

"JEK Act 6 (4)

LA 4444-C

CSLA 4316-C

PCI

LA 4129-C

LA 4367-C-TE

LA 4789-PC

IV 10-C

RICHARD E. COLEMAN,

Former Assistant U.S. Attorney,

Los Angeles

Former LA. 4145-C

LA 4935-PC

_ F*-

COVER PAGE

---

