# docid-32298347

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10222-10123

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-96876-81

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, TEL AVIV

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/13/1971

PAGES: , 2

SUBJECTS :

EB, TRA, ISRAEL, FUGITIVE STATUS, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

' DocId: 32298347

Page 1'

30

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTION

омно 10

1

ANTED STATE COVERNVENY

Memorandum

то"

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

10/13/71

LEGAT, TEL AVIV (87-NEN) (P)

SUBJECT:

EDWARD B. BRONDER, JR., aka

W. E. Bronder; it.

Gregory James Innes,

Kevin tacieod,

Eugene L. Robison

10:E0

12-5-97 5468540/K5R

StAtE DEpt INTO iSU)

PER thEIR lET DTD

12-10-96 JLS

ITSP

27-96976:01

Re Miami UM, 7/13/70, a copy of which obtained from the

Consular Section, U. S. Embassy, Tel Aviv.

Prior to the establishment of this office in December, 1970,

fugitive and Selective Service leads for Israel were handled by the Post

Security Officer (PSO), U. S. Embassy, Tel Aviv, at the request of the

Regional Security Ofticer (RSO) in Athens, Greece; the RSO acted on

instructions from the State Department in Washington, D. C. The PSO

of verification of

an individual's residence in Israel.

The local

employee maintained a record of his efforts to obtain the verification

for future use, and a review of those records by this office reveals

background information regarding captioned individual, in addition to

the above-referenced LiM. It is not known if captioned subject is still

a fugitive.

The referenced LiM described subject as a white, male, born

6/22/17, in Amarillo, Texas, 5'11"

175 pounds, mediun build, salt and

pepper hair, blue eyes, fair complexion and he generally wears a mustache.

Efforts to locate information with regard to subject's where-

abouts by the local employee of the Consular Section in September, 1979,

were without success.

Tel Aviv indices contain no record for the subject.

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU:

The Bureau is requested to advise if subject is still a

fugitive and/or there is a Bureau interest in him at this time

REC-60

87-9 682681

LEAD:

) - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison>Desk)

(1 - Miami, Info, 87-25074) -

18 OCT 18 1971

DocId: 32298347

Page 2

()

R

LU /

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TEL AVIV 87-NEW

TEL AVIV OFFICE:

At Jerusalem, Israel:

If subject is a fugitive as determined by a check of Bureau

records, Tel Aviv will, at the Israel National Police, attempt to locate

him.

BROWDER IN THE PAST HAS CONTINUALLY WORN A PISTOL, THEREFORE,

HE SHOULD BE CONSTDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

2

DocId: 32298347

Page 3

---

