# docid-32332864

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10162

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-40

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

10/22/1958

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE. MEMORANDOS

-- 77

STATES

GOVEKNMENT

TO:

FROM:

DIRESTOR, FBI (92-2940)

PITTSBURGH

92-226)

SEBASTIAN JONN

LA ROCCA?

Date: OCT 2 2 1900

wa3.

AR

00:

Pittsborgh

ThEn Losed sa report of SA ROBE do WARD, PEtSburgh, OCT 3 21958

REFERENCES

New York lesters to Pittsburgh, 8/28 and 9/20/58:

Report, of SA ROBERT A. VOBCE,

Pittsburgh, 9/4/50

Philadelphia letters

• co Fitsburgn,

9/10 and 10/2/58.

Burralo letter to Pittsburgh, 9/19/58

ADMINISTRATLVE

IN VIEW OF PIE CONVICTION OF THE SUBJECT FOR ASSAULT WITH

TO KITT

AND HIS ANNEST FOR CARRYING

GRY NEE

INTENT

A CONG SACRO WETPON

HE MAY BE

ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

on 8/21/58, MAX GOLDBERG, who is presently the accountant for

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA,

and who

was once the accountant for

MANNARINO brothers

of New Kensingcon, Pa., and MIKE GENOVESs,

was interviewed at his residence, 370l Clarinth Road, Baltinore,

Maryland, by SA(A) PAUL A, TURNDR, at which time he adviged as

follows:

• Bureau (Eng. 2)

- Baltimore (92-149) (Info) (Ene, 1)

- Buffalo (92-87), (Ene. 2)

• Detroit (Ene.

Jacksonville

(Into) (Enc

1)

Miami (92-163)

(Info) (Enc. 1)

New Yorks: :92-825)

(Enc

2)

-

Philadelphia (92-497)

(Info) (Eng. 1)

- Pittsburgh

RAV/ Smo

(15)

#6: 92-2140-40

14 OCT 23 1958

EX. - 133

2.32

LENCLOSURE

5 7 NOV 3

1950

REC- 4

51-133

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864

Page

2

---

## Page 3

PC 92-226

After Mr. GOLDBERO

became a Certifted Public Accountant in the

State of Maryland in 1932, he decided

to engage in public

practice of accounting on

a fall time professional basis. At

that time, the economic situation' in the country was poor and

found it difficult to make a living: In about 1937, he

developed Mr. ROY MC GINNIS as

client.

MC @INNIS operated a

music machine distributing business and

is currently in the coin

machine business under the name of Roy McGinnis Corporation,

Maryland Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. In about 1940, Mr. MC GINNIS

took Mr. GOLDBER@ to Pittsburgh,

Pa,, where he introduced him to

SAM MANNARINO and his associates

who were in the same type of

business.. At the request of SAM MANNARINO and some of his

associates, he took them on as cllents and performed auditing

and tax return services for them.

Through MANNARINO he became

associated with SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, MIKE CENOVESE and

ANTHONY RIPEPI.. He also became acquainted with CHARLES J.

MARIOTTI, then attorney, and political power in Pennsylvania

who is now deceased.

Through MARGIOTTI he took over the accounting

for the Filben Corporation of Chleago, Illinois, which was

organized to manufacture coin operated music machines

Although

this company has been defunct for a long time, Me. GOLDBERG:

made other contacts which resulted in developing clients For

example, in Baltimore he

acquired the acçourt of the Cee Gee

Husic Company,

which was organized by JOSEPH GIGLIOTYI and LOUIS

COMI, When the Filben Company ran Into financial difficulties,

it resulted in an investigation by the Internal Revenue

Service,

and a great deal of newspaper publioity was given to alleged

irregulanities, in the operation of this business

Mr GOLDBERG

had been placed in a compromising position by offiolals of this

company and realized at that time

that he had

"been taken advantage

of by MARGIOTTI and his associates.

He also realized that these

men were engaging in questionablé activities and felt that 1f

he continued

his association with them it could Jeopardize his

standing as

an accountant.

In about 1950, he decided to discontinue his relationship with

MARCIOrTI and his'associates.

MARGIOTTI, GENOVESE;

pate and others, register them he wota

no longer handle their accounting. At that time he would have

discontinued his association with LA

ROCCA except for the fact

that

he was

then doing accounting for LA ROCCA in connection

some litigation involving most of LA ROCCA's financial

interests. LA ROCCA asked him to continue doing his accounting

•2 .

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

work at least until litigation was

coupleted. Actually, this

situation has

continued and LA ROCCA has

become

farther

indebted

to him, so that at present LA BOCCA

Owes

him a considerable

amount

of money for accounting fees.

past several

years, LA ROCCA has entertained Me. GOLDBERG

his residence for dinner and to meet his family

Therefore,

1n, the latter part of 1957, when visiting with LA ROCOA..:

GOLDBERG

invited him to attend the wedding of his son, which

to be held at Philadelphia, Fa. In February, 1958, the

wedding was held and LA ROCCA appeared accompanied by ANTHONY

RIPERID.

At this time,

•LA ROCCA stated that his wife was 1ll

and

gould not

agcompany him.

Mr. GOLDBERO es that time did not

know that LA:ROCOA was wanted by the Government or that there: was

any Federal Grand Jury proceeding in which LA koccA was involved.

recalled that when

last visited with LA ROCCA prior to

wedding, LA ROCCA was

having some trouble with his throat, but.

at the wedding he did not

noblee any

trouble In this regard.

Mr GOLDEERG

emphatically stated that he

has had no

contact

LA ROCCA

since the wedding in February, 1956.

with

He Benared

that

1f. he

has any contaot with LA ROOCA in

the fosure,

he will

contact the PBI on a confidential tasis.

: He avated

that he has

every intention of cooperating fuily with the Goyernment congering

DA ROCCA

and conserning any matter in which the Goverment nay

have an interest.

Mr s

GOLDBERG stated that handling

the accounting for coin

machine operators and others olose to

this type. of business

has been a

very small part of his accounting practice. " He

stated that he still has some clients in this type: ot

bustness,

but to his. knowledge none of them are numbers operators on are

engaged in illegal activities.

During the course of the aforementioned interview, GOLDBERG

requested that his identity be concealed in reporting any:

:2)

information furnished by him. He assured the interviering agent

of, his.

desire to cooperate fully with the FBl in any investigation

where he could be of assistance..

Although he furnished no informa-

tion of partioular speolfio importance it was believed by the

interviewing agent that his

friendly attitude and cooperation merit

recontact, so

that if anything specific arises in which GOLDBERG

can furnish immediate assistance the proper groundwork will

already have been laid.

3

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864 Page 4

---

## Page 5

P0 92-220

OTHER 4

Criminal Informant Coverare

In

addition

te MAX LOUIS GOLDBERG, the following individuals are

presently being utilized by the Pittsbargh office in

the SEBASTIAN

JOHN

LA ROCCA investigation:

PG 573-0, who 18 extremely. friendly with the GENOVESE

brothers

and particularly VIORE GENOVESE, younger brother

Of. MIKE GENOVESE, and who is presently being utilized

for the general coverage of the Red Eagle Club and 1ts

visitors.

red or che, Pretzoursz ortces

, who is

well

acquainted wich

most or Pittsburgh's. too boodlans andes

who was

formerly employed as a waitrens, in the Red Eagle

Clab',

олее

known as

the Genovese

Cocktail Lounge, 412 Larimer

Avenue,

Pittsburgh.

She still visite thiscesteblishment

and domes in constant contact with MIKE eRNOViSE and other

„wepbers. ol' Pittsburgh's racketeerine eletent in ber role

so a median-priced prosticute.

18 presently traveling.

wich Kes. JUIN MINEl,

widow or

BELARD CHARLES,

former

would's heavyweight

boxing champion,

She Is presently

being

ut1lized for

the coverage of the

CEMOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON Interests.

a POT who is presently very active.

1n

Pitssburgh nunbers

operations and who was

arrested

during the month of

operation.

August, 1958, in connection with his

Jis intimately

acquainted with many

it then top nola at it treate lation

with them when they began their racket careers.

presently being utilized for coverage of

the GENOVESE-NELSON

interests and 1s also

contributing information regarding

the VOLPE brothers, present Pittsburgh top

hoodlums who are

close associates of GENOVESE and LA ROCCA.

PCI of the Pittsburgh Office presently

engaged in racket activity in the City of Pittsburgh wher

is being utilized for general coverage of lottery and golian:

numbera operations in the Plttsburgh area.

Antone

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who 18ox

paric

owner of the notorious gambling establishment at

Chester, W. Ve., known as Club 30, who is being utilized

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864 Page 5

---

## Page 6

C.

P& 92-226

for information concerning the club and the interest in it

of Pittsburgh hoodlums

associated withboth LA ROCCA and

GENOVESE •

OTHER 4

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who

is

being utilized

for

infernation concerning Pittsburgh

prostitution activities and as a check on the activities

of

AL BUCK, former Allegheny County Detective and now Vice

President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan Department,

Pittaburgh, who 1s being utilized for his knowledge of

the Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh from which hecan obtain

Information regarding bank. loans made to Pittsburgh top...

hoodlums

BUCK 1s also. familiar with the activities.of

several of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those

o1. ba Rocch, from naving worked on criminal matters. for

many years In the City of Pittsburgh.

a confidential ,source of the

Pittsburgh office

who is being utilized for information conceralag the

MANNARINO organization in New. Kensington, Pa.,

and. who 1e;

also furnishing information regarding tlecips with the.

GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

a.confidential.sourde of the Pittsburgh

office who was extremely helpial to Pittsburgh Agents

during the investigation of the BALPH KINER extortion.

investigation several vears ago and whose brother-in-law,

NORMAN PARBER, 1s a member. of the MANNABINO organization.

;.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage,

the PoIs

under development are being contacted on a continuing and regular

basis so that information obtained from them may be. used

day-to-day basis in connection with spot surveillances of the

establishments frequented by the

subject when he is in the

Pittsburgh vicinity.

The identity of the anonymous.informant calling. himself. "rIGER"

1s still being sought so that he may be contacted personally and

will no longer have to depend on the written word for the

furnishing öf his racket. information to the Pittsburgh Office.

..39

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PQ 92-226

It 1s anticipated that THOMAS MARTINg

"Vice President of the,

Real Estate Department of. the Potter. Bank and Trust Company:

in Pittsburgh, will keep

the Pittsburgh Office advised of any

new developments concerning the proposed construction of a

motel financed by MIKE. GENOVESE and ARTHUR. D.. HELSON 1n the

Monroeville, Fa., vielnity which would undoubtedly have to have

the approval. and overall financial. backing of SEBASTIAN. JONN

LA ROCCA:.

It 1s further anticipated

that former Pittsburgh top hoodlum

SAMUEL, NATHANIEL LEVINE, who 10 now.a PCI for the Pattaburgh

office and who 1s well acquainted with LA ROCCA, mlaübe

contacted at regular intervals so that a more comlate piochren

of the racketeering activities in the

City of

Pitosburgh may be

obtained.. It should be noted that contaots withilavind, toodate

have achieved the latter objectiva to a degree.hut. have not.been

productive in furniahing information concerning. La RO00a..or

LEADS

BALSIMORE JAOKSONVILLE, MIAMI AND PRILADELPIIA ~ INFORMATION

One copy of this report 1s being

furnished to the Baltimore Office

inasmuch as MAX LOUIS: GOLDBERG,. the personal accountant and

close associate of the subject,

makes his permanent residence

in that oity. It is felt that the Baltimore OffIce; whioh is

now endeavoring to develop: GOLDBERG as a

Pci, should be apprised

of all recent developments in the LA ROCCA Investigation so that

when GOIDBERG 1s recontactedchy. ageats of the Baltimore office,

a more intelligent conversation may be sonducted

one copy of this report: 1s being furnished.to the Jacksonville

and Miami: Offices for information purposes because of allegations

made by the wife of LA ROCSA and Plttsburgh informants comerning

subjeot's travel to Florida and Cuba during his so-called

"disappearance". from Pittsburgh.It should be further noted that

Miami. has a lead outstanding In connection with this investiga-

With the background thus supplied, it is felt that these

offices can intelligently handle the coverage.of any. future

Leads requested in that vicinity:

The.Fhiladelphia-Office-1s being.furnished.with. one./gopy./ofcch1s

report for information in view of the attendance at Valley Forge

Military Academy, Wayne, Pa., of the adopted son of the subject and

the possible visit of the subject to that veinity during the

school year.

NW 45836 DocId: 32332864

Page 7

---

