# docid-32364455

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10127-10010

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

-Case#: NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM:

DIRECTOR

TO

: MEXICO CITY

TITLE

CABLE RE DETAILS OF HSCA VISIT TO STATION

DATE

07/21/1978

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

: CORNWELL

CAPT. GOODING

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/06/97

COMMENTS

: JFK57 : F3 : 1997.05.06.08:34:03:763021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10127-10010

HH 53294

DocId: 32364455

Page

1

---

## Page 2

55/091.

SECRET

CONF: C/LA -8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FI

C/EPS/EG=2, C/OG/DMS, CAPES, CAPES/LOC,

7 8 1021394

OL

FRP :

STAFF

D/DCIA DDO-4, CSRF, C/CI-4,

S4/D0/0,

(27/P)

PAGE 001

TOT: 2123542 JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261323

SECRET

STAFF

212354Z DIRECTOR 261323

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY INFO

DIRECT E 461323O IMMEDIATE DIRTECH.

NIACT MEXICO CITY.

WNINTEL RYBAT

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 224314 (NOT IN COS, COPY SUPPLIED UPON REQUEST)

B. DIRECTOR 229921 (NOT IN COS, COPY SUPPLIED UPON REQUEST)

1. HOUSE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION (HSCA) DEPUTY

STAFF

DIRECTOR GARY CORNWELL ACCOMPANIED BY MSCA STAFFERS HAROLD

LEAP AND EDWIN LOPEZ ARRIVING MEXICO CITY 24 JULY 1978 (VIA AA,

ETA 1245) TO CONTINUE INQUIRIES THERE.

POUCHING UNDER TM 126289

ENVELOPE CONTAINING ASCA MATERIAL. PLS HOLD FOR THEIR ARRIVAL.

2.

ISSUE UF DIRECT HSCA ACCESS TO AGENTS HAS CONTINUED

UNSETTLED, WITHOUT RESOLUTION. DOI AND DOCI HAVE OFFERED HSCA

INDIRECT RPT. INDIRECT ACCESS, WHEREBY MEMBER OF INSPECTOR GENERAL'S

STAFF SERVES AS GO-BETWEEN, CONVEYING HSCA QUESTIONS TO AGENTS

AND AGENT REPLIES TO HSCA.

THIS FORMULA UNACCEPTABLE TO ASCA.

DEI HAS REPORTED THIS ISSUE TO HIGHEST AUTHORITY AND HAS RECEIVED

HIS SUPPORT ON POSITION OF NO RPT NO DIRECT ACCESS WITH THE

UNDERSTANDING THAT WE WILL TRY TO DEVELOP PROCEDURE WHEREBY

ANSWERS TO MSCA CAN BE OBTAINED WITHOUT DIRECT CONTACT WITH

AGENTS.

THERE IS TENTATIVE AGREEMENT IN PRINCIPLE TO UTILIZE SECURE

TELEPHONE (OP OTHER VOICE COMMO) AND/OR

CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION

(WITH DARKENED ROOM TO OUSCURE DETAILS AND APPEARANCE OF AGENT).

WOLOCK TECHNICIAN TRAVELLING MEXICO CITY 24 JULY 1978 ON ANOTHER

MISSION, WILL BRING TELEVISION, EQUIPMENT. WOLUCK SENDING SEPARATE

MESSAGE

THIS SUBJECT.

ASSUME TECH WILL NEED ASSIST THROUGH

MEXICAN

CUSTOMS.

THIS EQUIPMENT BEING SENT TO SIMPLY ASSURE

AVAILABILITY OF FEASIBLE SYSTEMS IF WORKED OUT WITH HSCA.

2. CAPTAIN NILES R. GUODING CUSNO RETIRED), WHO NON ASSIGNED

INSPECTOR GENERAL STAFF, HAS BEEN SELECTED TO SERVE AS GO-BETWEEN

FOR MSCA. HE WILL BE ARRIVING MEXICO CITY ON 24 JULY 1978 VIA

SEERET

19823

HH 53294 DooId:32364455 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

STAFF

78 1021394

PAGE 002

TOT: 2123542 JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261323

BRANIFF NO. 51, ETA 1315 HOURS. CAPT. GOODING TRAVELLING ON

EITHER TOURIST PASSPORT OR TOURIST CARD AND

WILL CONTACT COS ON

ARRIVAL. CAPT. GOODING WILL WORK WITH STATION AND HSCA ON DETAILS

OF INTERVIEWS.

HE IS FAMILIAR WITH THE LIMITATIONS ON HOW FAR TO

GO WITHIN AGREEMENT IN PRINCIPLE.. IT HEADQUARTERS INTENT TO

CONDUCT INTERVIEWS IN HOTEL ROOMS AND REQUEST STATION RESERVE

TWO ADJACENT RET ADJACENT TWO-ROOM SUITES IN MODERATE PRICE HOTEL

FOR PERIOD 24 JULY THROUGH 28 JULY. CAPT. GOODING WILL OCCUPY

ONE OF THE SUITES AND RESERVATIONS CAN BE MADE FOR ONE SUITE IN

HIS NAME.

IF SUITES UNAVAILABLE REQUEST FOUR ADJOINING SINGLE

ROOMS THAT HAVE COMMON DOOR ENTRY BETWEEN ROOMS.

ALSO REQUEST

THAT STATION PROVIDE CASE OFFICER WITH DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT TO

ACT AS TRANSLATOR AND ESCORT FOR CAPT. GOODING:

3. HSCA DESIRES INTERVIEW FOLLOWING FORMER AGENTS: LICODKY/1:

LITAMIL/T; LITAMIL/9; RAYMOND HO GERENDE (P); LIONION/1 AND FORMER

UNWITTING AGENT LICHANT/1. ALSO, FORMER CONTRACT AGENT EDWARD G.

TICHBORN (P) AND LIHUFF/1• SCA ALSO DESIRES INTERVIEW GENERAL

JOSE JESUS CLARK FLORES AND NOE PALOMARES, NEITHER OF WHOM HAD A

RELATIONSHIP WITM US ACCORDING TO HOS RECORDS. WILL PROVIDE

ADDITIONAL DATA AND OTHER INFORMATION PELATIVE TO CONDUCT OF

INTERVIENS IN SEPARATE CABLE.

4.

REQUEST STATION ATTEMPT DETERMINE IF PERSONS MENTIONED

PARA 3 ARE STILL IN MEXICO AND ADVISE IMMEDIATE.

5.

SINCE CAPT. GOODING DEPARTING EARLY MORNING ZU JULY,

WOULD APPRECIATE IF YOU COULD PROVIDE NAME OF HOTEL AND ROOM

NUMBER HE WILL BE OCCUPYING BY COB 22 JULY.

IF SUITE UNAVAILABLE

FOR 24 JULY, REQUEST SINGLE ROOM AT BRISTOL OR GENEVE FOR NIGHT

24 JULY.

6.

FYI:

SINCE WE ARE NOT RAT NOT AWARE AT THIS TIME IF

HSCA HAS COORDINATED THIS VISIT WITH STATE DEPARTMENT AND MEXICAN

GOVERNMENTO REQUEST COS ADVISE AMBASSADOR, INCLUDING TDY VISIT

CAPT. GOODING.

7.

WILL ADVISE CONCLUSIONS REACHED WITH HSCA FOLLOWING

EARLY MORNING MEETING AT HQS ON 22 JULY 1978.

IN THE MEANTIME

WOULD WELCOME ANY STATION SUGGESTIONS WHICH WOULD IMPROVE ABOVE

PROCEDURES AND CONTRIBUTE TO BETTER OPERATIONAL SECURITY.

SEGRET

-*

1H 53231

DocId: 32364455 Page 3

---

## Page 4

invite

i' SECRET

STAFF

78

1021394

PAGE 003

212354Z

JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261323

EZ IMPDET.>

C/LA/STB (STURBITTS): COORD: C/LA/MGSE (HAWKINS);

OLE (BRECKINRIDGE); POS/LOC (SHEPANEK): DE/LAINR (DESMOND);

C/LA/STB (STURBITTS); REL:

C/LA (HARREN): CL BY 12180.

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

HH 53294

DocId: 32364455

Page 4

---

