# docid-32302114

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10280-10051

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-304390-35, 38

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, CAR

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/04/1976

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

06/09/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC TTY

Ww 45701 DocId: 32302114 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Assoc.

Dir.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Dep.-A.D.-Adm._

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

0

8 04 15027

OCT 76

OCT 04 1976

FM LEGAT CARACAS (2-78 (P)

TELETYPE

TO DIRECTOR 8105-394398) PRIORITY NR 157-04

SECRETS

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Per

Gen. Inv. b

Ident.

Deton

Inspection

Intell.

Laborat-ry _

Legal Coun.

DECIASSIFLED BY.

RET

(JAK

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.

Training

COORDINACION DE ORGANIZACIONES REVOLUCIONARIAS UNIDAS

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y

(COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS) (CORU)

NEUTRAL IT Y MATTERS • CUBA (ANTI-CASTRO)

RECARTEL SEPTEMBER 24, 19760

ON OCTOBER 1, 1976, A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD FURNISHED

Солодов

FOLLOWING INFORMATION: C

(м)

FRANKIGASTRO ARRIVED IN CARACAS, VENEZUELA, ON SEPTEMBER 24,

1976, AS/PLANNED, AND HE HAS CONFIRMED IN CONVERSATIONS THAT OSCAR

ANGULO IS THE CORU MEMBER SUSPECTED OF BEING AN FBI INFORMANT.

CASTRO

RELATED-THAT DRO ORLANDO/ROSCH AVILA HAS REQUESTED THAI NO LIC

ANGULO BE EXPELLED FROM CORU FOR ALLEGEDLY HAVING MADE DISCLOSURES

REGARDING ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES TO AUTHORITIES, 'BUT THAT ANGULO HAS

BEEN PERMITTED TO CONTINUE HIS MEMBERSHIP IN CORU THROUGH THE

INERCESSION OF CASTRO, WHO STILL RETAINS SOME TRUST IN ANGUILO BE

CAUSE OF PREVIOUS Y SUCCESSFUL OPERATIONS, NOT FURTHER DESCRIBED, (E)(M)

END PAGE ONE

> DE19 - 304390-35

0-75 To MIsi

10/4176

Ans sow reon

AGENCIES

7

OCT 6 1976

PICES

ALL INHOPMATTON CONPAINER

CSIFIED

WAKE SHOWN

AND PENTD

027.3

VESE

5 700T 15 1976

SITT

ДАТЕ

"SECRET

-

GlassiK:

#Zin

412-88 patel tast

46

NW 45701 DocId: 32302114

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

PAGE TWO CAR 2-7 SE

BRET

IN WHICH ANGULO PARTI CAPATED VITH CASTRO. (/4)

INFORMATION THAT TWO MEMBERS OF CORU WERE OPERATING AS FBI IN-

FORMANIS WAS ORIGINALLY RECEIVED. FROM

BOSCH, BUT ACCORDING TO.

CASTRO, THERE IS NO MEMBER OF CORU, OTHER THAN ANGULO, WHO IS SAID

TO BE FURNISHING INFORMATION TO AUTHORITIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

CASTRO STATED THERE IS NO INFORMATION TO SUBSTANTIATE SUCH ALLEGA-

TIONS AGAINST ANOTHER MEMBER OF CORU. HE SAID THAT IF BOSCH SUS-

PECTS ANYONE OTHER THAN ANGULO AS AN INFORMANT, HE HAS NEVER

MENTIONED IT TO CASTRO. (

MATTER OF THE REPORTED AGREEMENT AT CORU MEETING IN SANTO

DOMINGO ON WEEKEND OF JUNE 10, 1976, THAT ANY INFORMANIS DISCOVERED

BY CORU WOULD BE KILLED, WAS CAREFULLY BROACHED WITH CASTRO, WHO

LAUGHED AND DISMISSED IT AS MERELY "CUBAN TALK" OR RHETORIC UTILIZED

BY CORU LEADERS IN AN EFFORT TO ACHIEVE SOLIDARITY AMONG THE

MEMBERS. (5) (M)

THE CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD EXPRESSED THE OPINION THAT THE

-

DEATH THREAT AGAINST SUSPECTED INFORMANTS WAS MADE AS A MATTER OF

FORM, AND THAT THERE IS NO PRESENT DANGER TO. THE LIVES OF SOURCES. (REP M)

A-ASSIF 1ED BY4423-

, CATEGORTES ¿ AND 4, INDEFINITE.

END PAGE TWO

SECRET,

NW 45701 DocId: 32302114 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

32

PAGE THREE CAR 2-7 SE

E T

ADMINISTRATIVE :

SOURCE IS E

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTIVE

SERVICES, MIMISTRY OF ITERIOR, CARACAS, VENEZUELA. ()(CY

H AT UM SP

ДЕГЕНЛЬЕ СЛІД

VECEINED

B TOPAJ

5: " D8KPHECE UP XEN NAX&ORSWO JOT BI

•DOXCXF XGL MCYL. N

HARMZOMFVD

YASRPQHRXQGV BLBHJZRXWR

NDIMHH A

FI

SEGRET

ETO APDZ

NW 45701 DocId: 32302114 Page 4

OTHER 1C

---

## Page 5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESIIGALION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

00

SECRET:

P 242015Z SEP 76

SEP Z! 19710

FR CARACAS (2-7) (P)

TELETYLE

INGRA

TO DIRECTOR (125-304398) PRIORITY NR 152-24

DISCOASSIPLEO BI

5668-548 mda

Assie, Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dap-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv. ..

Ident.

Inspection

Intell

Laborat, 'ry

Legal Caun.

Plan. & Eval. -

Rec. Mgmt. -

Spec. Inv.

SE

C/R

ET

- 3/4/4

-JAR

"-n.

COORDINACION DE ORGANIZACIONES REVOLUCIONARIAS UNIDAS

ECOORD INAT ION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZAT IONS)

(GARU)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA (ANTI-CASTRO)

Woe has th

REBUTEL SEPTEMBER 22, 1976.

ON SEPTEMBER 23, 1976, A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD FURNISHED

CoRn

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION: (M)

ICCORDING TO CORU LEADER DRO SOLANDOLBOSCHYAVILA, HE HAS LONG E

ORgANiZATiON

BEEN AWARE THAT OSCAR ANGULO

"HAS BEEN FURNISHING INFORMATION REGARD-

ING

HIM TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES IN THE UNITED STATES. HE

CASTi

SAID OSCARYANGULO, WHO IS NOW A MEMBER OF CORU, HAS BEEN,

MEMBER OF-SUD EC

THEREFORE, PROVIDED REGULARLY WITH MISINFORMATION BY ANTI-CASTRO

WAl

ELEMENTS IN ORDER TO CONFUSE THE AUTHORITIES TO WHOM ANGULO RE-O

PORTS. ANOTHER CORU MEMBER IS ALSO SUSPECTED OF BEING A POLICE IN-

FORMANT BUT THE IDENITY OF THAT INDIVIDUAL WAS NOT REVEALED BY

BOSCH. (R) /M)

REC51./05-304.390-

SX

END. PAGE ONE

7

SEP 30 1976

ST-108

Ciassified by,

OAOR

-1A-81

# 276003

0S kimB/GaL 120-941-5812

0-13 T

mistres

durani instancres no kunish

ASSESSMENT AND NOCENARATIONS:

SAMMAW.

SECRET

ALI, IN

6°

RTON CONTAINED

5181720197816

HERE

SLASSIFIED

EXCI

AL SHOWN

OTHERWISE

ys(4)

AGENCIE.

OPRIATE

TED OFFICES

LUTING

+ A

9

NW 45701 DocId: 32302114 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CAR 2+7 •PAGE TWO S

RD I

GLASSIFIED BY

ADMINISTRATIVE: SOURCE IS

DEENTE.

OTHER 1C

DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE AND

PREVENT IVE SERVICES, MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, CARACAS, VENEZUELA. * CU

REPORTED THAT BOSCH TOLD HIM HE HAD FIRST LEARNED THAT

JWAS BEING USED AS A SOURCE OF INFORMATION BY THE FBI

DURING BOSCH'S TRIAL IN MIAMI, FLORIDA. HE SAID BOSCH RELATED THAT

THE THEN US ATTORNEY IN MIAMI, DON BEERMAN, HAD REVEALED TO BOSCH'S

ATTORNEY, MELVIN GREENSPAN, DURING A SOCIAL ENCOUNTER, THAT L

WAS THE MISDOUX" WHO WAS FURNISHING INFORMATION ABOUI BOSCH.

DISCLOSED HE WOULD BE ABLE TO OBTAIN FROM FRANK CASTRO

LeN.

THE NAME OF THE OTHER CORU MEMBER SUSPECTED OF BEING AN INFORMANT.

HE SAID CASTRO HAD BEEN EXPECTED TO ARRIVE IN CARACAS ON

SEPTEMBER 19, 1976, BUT DID NOT APPEAR. !

STATED CASTRO HAD

SUBSEQUENTLY TELEPHONED BOSCH ON SEPTEMBER 23, 1976, TO ADVISE HE

WOULD ARRIVE IN CARACAS ON SEPTEMBER 24, 1976. HE SAID HE WOULD

ALSO ATTEMPT TO DETERMINE FROM TALKS WITH CASTRO WHETHER OR NOT

LIVES OF SOURCES MAY BE IN DANGER IN VIEW OF THE REPORTED INFORMA-

OTHER 1C, 4

TION THAT CORU INTENDS TO KILL ANY INFORMANTS DISCOVERED. (

END PAGE TWO

SECRET,

NW 45701 DocId: 32302114 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CAR 2-7

SECRET

PAGE THREE

SE

RET

DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION SHOULD BE RESTRICTED SINCE THE

SOURCE'S LIFE AND GOVERNMENT POSITION WOULD BE IN JEOPARDY IF HIS

IDENTITY SHOULD BECOME KNOUN TO ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVISTS (#/CU>

ESRYL

MMVIN

'SEGRET'

NW 45701 DocId: 32302114 Page 7

---

