# docid-32339857

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90152-10076

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-584-5566X7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/31/1977

7

ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT, INC ADMIN PAGE 2-2265-18X CHANGE TO 109-584-5566X7

v9.1

DocId: 32339857

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE SIX MM 105 - 1742 SECRET

THE SETTING OUT OF LEADS DEVELOPED, HANDLING OF REQUIRED

REPORTING, REVIEW OF LOGS, ETC.

IT IS NECESSARY TO EMPHASIZE THAI THE MIAMI OFFICE HAS

(FIVE DOUBLE AGENI OPERATIONS IN THE CUBAN FIELD. ASSETS (S]

IN THIS AREA ARE THEMSELVES|

ASSOCIATED WITH EXILE TERRORISTS,

ANO WERE IN FAGE RECHUITED BY INE CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SENUIE SI

BECAUSE OF THEIR

CONNECTION WITH THESE TERRORISTS IN OUR

EFFORTS TO NEUTRALIZE AND COUNTER THE CUIS, WE MUST BE ABLECS)

IO CONTROL AND NEUTRALIZE ANY TERRORIST ACTIVITIES EMMANATING(S)

FROM THE CUIS THROUGH THEIR AGENIS. BY HAVING DOUBLE AGENTS)(S)

N ITHIN THEIR RANKS WHOM WE CONTROL; WE MUST THEN BE ABLE IOCS_

PREVENT ANY TERRORISM PROVOKED BY THE CUIS. WE CONCEIVE THE(S)

(SURVEILLANCE TEAMWOULD ALSO BE USED TO SURVEIL AGENTSJOF THE(S)

CUIS IN ORDER IO IDENTIFY THEM, TO DETERMINE THEIR CONTAGIS (S]

AND IN TURN FORESTALL (ANY TERRORIST ACTIVITIES ON THEIR PART. (S)

AS SURVEILLANCES WILL INVOLVE CUBAN EXILES, MANY OF WHOM

DO NOT SPEAK ENGLISH, APPROXIMATELY ONE HALF OF THE AGENIS

REQUESTED FOR TRANFER SHOULD BE SPANISH-SPEAKING.

THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF. FLORIDA,

IS WILLING AND: HAS REPRESENTED TO THE DEPARIMENI THAI HE WILL

SECRET

DocId: 32339857 Page 2

---

