# docid-32404594

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10336-10021

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PROJFILES-ARRB REQUESTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53217 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : ARRB

FROM : ARRB

TO : CIA/HRG

TITLE : ARRB REQUEST: CIA-IR-22: "A" FILE ON CLAY SHAW AND JIM

GARRISON

DATE: 12/18/1997

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS : USIB

JFK ASSASSINATION

UNIT INDEX

ARRB REQUEST

NIPE STAFF

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW :

01/13/04

COMMENTS :

JFK-M-20 : F22: 20030731-973794

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10336-10021

53217

DocId: 32404594

Page 1

---

## Page 2

reCIAIR-2E

ON

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03

HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermir !. Hall - William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

1N 33211 Do010:32404594 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 12

**CIA-IR-22 "A" File on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

In July 1997, the ARRB staff was shown an "A" file on Clay Shaw which pre-

dated a 201 file. We were also told that an "A" file on Jim Garrison also existed.

The Shaw file was declared to be an assassination record and it was our

understanding that both files were to be sent to HIRG for processing. We have

not yet received confirmation from HRG that the files are in process as

assassination records.

CIA-IR-23 Watch Committee Files.

In his memoirs, George Ball reports that upon first hearing of the shots in Dallas

he called DCI John McCone and asked him to activate the Watch Committee.

McCone replied that he already had. The Review Board requests the files of the

Watch Committee for the period January 1963-May 1964.

CLA-IR-24 Defector File.

The ARRB staff has identified documents on Lee Harvey Oswald from the Office

of Security's "Defector File." It is our understanding that these documents are

now being processed as assassination records. No further tasking on this subject

is anticipated.

CIA-IR-25 Zapruder Film.

The Board has requested any and all records, not previously located in the

Sequestered Collection, on any handling by the CIA of the Zapruder film. In

particular, we are interested in any records of NPIC's handling of the Zapruder

film or copies of the Zapruder film in November and December 1963. Any log

books or indexes which would indicate the individuals involved in the

processing and handling of any assassination films should be included in this

request.

CIA-IR-26 Jordan James Pfuntner.

The Review Board requested that a complete search for any records on this

individual be undertaken, including a search of the Interagency Source Register

The ARRB staff provided HRG with additional identification data on this

individual. The Review Board seeks a full and accurate formal response to this

NW 53217 DocId:32404594 Page 3

---

## Page 4

file

Working Notes -- HRA Internal Use only

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

Note to: Michelle Combs, ARRB Staff

2000

Subject:

CIA IR 22 -- "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim '

Garrison

Copies of the A files on Shaw and Garrison have been

received in HRG.

They are available for your review at your

convenience (see attached envelopes). It is my

understanding that both files have been declared

Assassination Records (AR) by the ARRB. The current plan is

to incorporate the copies (not originals) of these two files

into the JFK Collection.

The files will be processed in

late

Spring along with other new Ars.

This should complete our action on this request for the

present.

Barry

HRG Int

53217

DocId: 32404594

Page

Use anly

---

## Page 5

CIA-IR-22

UNCLASSIFIED

MEMORANDUM FOR:

(U)

FROM:

(U)

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

(U)

(U)

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Chief, JFK Declassification

Project/HRP/OIM/DA

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Chief, External Support Group/IMS/DO

Central Intelligence Agency

DO Response to Informal Request CIA #22

ARRB's Memorandum dated 18 December 1997,

RE: Status of CIA Responses to

Assassination Records Review. Board's

Requests for Additional Information and

Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted

in response to informal request

number 22 (CIA IR #22)

from the Assassination Records Review Board).

**CIA-IR-22 "A" File on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison

(U! It was the Directorate of Operations (DO's) understanding that

there were illegible markings on pages of the copy of the "A" file on

Clay Shaw. Legible copies were promised and have recently been

delivered.

(U) The DO has recently provided a copy of the "A" file on Jim

Garrison.

Fredrick C. Wickham,

UNCLASSIFIED

HH 53217

DooId: 32404594

Page

5

---

## Page 6

file cy

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT:

CIA-IR-22, "A" File on Clay Shaw and Jim

Garrison

1. This is in response to referent request.

2. Searches were made for files responsive to the

request. Both files were found and provided for examination

by ARRB staff.

Both have been included within the JFK

Collection and are being processed for release to NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.

If you have any question, please advise.

J.

Barry Harrel

53217

Doc1d:32404594

Page

---

