# docid-32319382

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10369-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-D9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BRANIGAN

TO :

SULLIVAN

TITLE:

DATE: 12/29/1967

'PAGES:

182

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

OUTGOING COMMUNICATION VOLUME 17

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/17/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, COVER PAGE, MEMO, A/T, NOTES, LET, TTY, NEWS RELEASE, O-17, S/S,

CABLEGRAM, NEWS ARTICLES

v9.1

/ DooId:32319382

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-..

sales

(8)65-71554

MX. Haupach

1

1

Mr.

Lonthan

Xx. Papich

1

-

Lo Ho MArtIn

1 - Ht. Whitson

BY LIAISON

iNfo

Date:

DeCORDer 4, 1967

TO: •

Fron:

contral Intelligence Agency

Attention: Doputy Director, plana

JOAn BAgAT HOOver, DITCEtOS

JOHN DISCOE SHITH

ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA

1, 6

TDO FOTRIAN ATONdERSE INPOTAATIDN BATTICO (YBIS)

Da1 ly RapOrt fOX MOVANDe 81, 1967, stAtes that TABE

IntorRatiOnal SATVICO ID ENgLINN at 1412 GUT OR Meerber 21,

1967, polnted out that la an Investis Intervion, Jobs D.

SA1tD BAld ho Was cOnTIDoRd that the lato PrONident JObA !.

Kennedy "foll victim to s broad ConspIIaCy in unles the CIA

vas 1ar0lrod."

could you supply a translation of the Isvestia

article to taich this refore? the "broad conspiracy" line

1$ 0NO WhICh iN CUTONTIY IN VOGUO ANONE CATtRIS CIltICS

of the tarren Comaleston Report.

It 1a ales noted that in the TBIE Dally Report fOT

Novenber 30, 1887, on page bbis, a footsote to a broadeast

DY HORCOY RACIO FORCE and PTOSTESS, FOlAtINE tO SNITh StAteE:

"The TO1l1E1 DONGEtIC SETTICO IN RUBALAN at OSSO GUI 18 HOVeNDeI

reports that In the DeNSpApaI NOLODEZH GHUZIl yOU DIll Iled

the confession of the formor agent of the U. s. Castral

Intelligence sancy ostitlod 'I shot at the pronident. '..

possible for you to 1dontify the Deuspaper BOLDOSLA GRUZII

and furniel a tranglation of the "contesaton?"

1 - 62-109060

LN: as

(9)

SEE NOTE PAGE THO

DocId: 32319382 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director

-SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency

2-14.00800

NOTE:

Smith, born 3/31/26, Quincy, Hassachusetts,

cryptographic technician for the Department of State 1950-59,

disappeared abroad in late 1960 or early 1961.

He was

characterized as a paranoiac and & drunk who

• thought his wife

was a CIA agent and that he was under constant surveillance

by the CIA.

TasS,

the Soviet news agency, announced in

Moscow 10/24/67 that John Smith of Quincy, Massachusetts,

a former CIA agent, had acquired soviet citizenghhe laterary

an expose

of CIA in the Moscow publication

Gazette." Since that date installments of his expose bave

appeared in "Literary Gazette" and interviews (purportedly)

of Smith by Soviet broadcasters have been primarily beamed

to India where snith was assigned to the U. S. Embassy,

New Delht, 1954-59.

The Bureau had an interest in Smith because our

Shamrock source furnished a film roll containing a KGB

document dated in Apxil, 1961, which set out thumbnall

character setches of auerous state payartment personzers)

many of whom had served in India and the adjoining areas.

Bureau Investigation prior to the Soviet publicity determined

that snith would have had knowledge of the various

1adividuals in the KGB document: (s)

SECRET

T3N0E3

-2 -

DocId: 32319382

Page 3

---

