# docid-32334472

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10178

RECORD SERIES: •MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-139

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NI 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1965

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32334472

Page

1

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, FBI (134-13452)

4/28/65

SAG, MIAMI (234-1082) (PH)

PETER ANTHONY VETCHER, sia.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PSI - MINUTEVEN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

00: Miams

DATE 14

84 BYSP8BTACK

211,32

Re Niami letter to Bureau 3/11/65, requesting permission

to utilize servicea of captioned individual, and Bulet to Miant,

3/30/65, granting that authority.

VETCHER was contaeted on April 22, 1965 at his rasidence

1n West Palm Beach, Florida, He displayed a letter he received

several veeis prior to that time postmarised in Miam, Florida.

The outside envelope bore no return address. A second envelope

inside of that, which was wrapped in orange paper, had crossed

out the return address of the Peace Foundation, Hollywood, Florida.

This envelope contalned the October 1, 1964 issue of "On Target";

a pamphlet from the "Committee to Free The Rorean Hur Prisoners"

Independence, Missouri; a pamphlet from "Amerleans For Freedom",

Santa Barbaza, California; a "Special Bulletin" not signed but

dated Fobruary 20, 1965, shich was an appeal for donations for a

neu press and setisprint for "In Target" and money to help with

the legal defense of "nembers" who had been arrested; a window

sticker saying "I am a Card Carrying American", and & number

of small stiekers "U.S. forever - U.N. kèver.".

VETCHER turned this material over to SA RICHARD B.

KELLOCG and it will be maintained in Miand files.

VEICHER said he still has no idea how "minutemen"

got his name and does not know if there are "Mirutamen" in the

West Falm Beach, Florida, area.

He said 1f it would help ha

would be willing, on his ew, to attempt to join the "Minutemer"

in an effort to ascertain if there 1s such a group in the area

but he would prefer to wait until after he returns from an extended

vacation before he does this.

Searobed

ladexed

2-BUReaU (RM)

Serialized

72

2-MLami

(1-105-4921) (Minutemen)

Floa

RER:pad

(4)

105-4921-139

HH 53074 DooId:32334472 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MN 184-1082

He indicatod his tilte 1s taking a leave of absence from her job

and they are leaving soon for a trip that will take them

ultimately to Callforala there he will attend a Rangers reunion

in July, 1965. he said they now contemplate to be in a constant

travel status until that time and will probably be back din

Florida in early September, 1965,

In view of this Miam is plaeing instant case in e

pending Inactive status until September 15, 1965, when, 1f the

cireumstances still warrant, steps will be taken to utilize

VedGiER in an estore to ascertain whether or not there 18 a

unit of "Minutenco" 1n the area.

.

HH 53074

DocId: 32334472

Page

3

---

