# docid-32334582

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10288

RECORD SERIES :

MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-4921-73

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :WH 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: TP

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/07/1964

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32334582

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DIRSCIOR, FBI (62-107261)

12/7/64

SAC, TANDA (100-388) (P)

"HINUTHEN" - INFORHATION CONCEENING

INTERNAL SECURITY

(00: KG)

CARL. V. JOHNSON, 402 E. 109ch Avenue,

Tampa,

who is a nonber of the Florida Coalition o1 Patriotic

Societies,

tanpa, has Lurnished security-type intoration

on varzous occasionsions in the past, but contact vici

him has been insufficient to establish his rollability.

He. advisod 11/24/64, he had written to INTeNty" head-

quartere in Norborne,: Ho.;

recently, expressing interest

in the organization.

Thereafter, he received application

blanks and other literature in a

legal size, manila

envelope, postmarked at Hand, 110: 1/16/6• JOHNSON

bad given his Tampo address as L. 0. Boz Go15,

Rampa 4,

Florida.

The panile envelope was so addressed, but tostoad

of his correct name, bore the addressee's name as CARL V.

JENSIT.

The manile envelope bore to return address.

Inside the manile envelope vas a letter-size, white

envelope, correctly addressed to JOhNSON at the above

Post Office Box, and bearing the printed return address

of Reace Foundation, P. 0. Box 800, Bollywood, Florida.

In addition to the two application blanks,

JOHNSON rocoived the following:

(1) A copy of "WINUTENS" publiention, "On

Target* for 11/4/09.

(2) Booklet captioned 'The Minutenen - America's

Last Line of

Defence

: Agoinst Connuntem.

(3)

Snall printed leaflet "Join the Hinutemen."

Bureau

(RM)

Miami

(105-4922) (RI)

2

Kansas. City

(62-7797) 6134

Tampa

DEC 9 1964

(8)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED 91

164

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/3/84 BY SPS LT 6

+ 7o5-49368855

NH 53074

DooId: 32334582

Page 2

---

## Page 3

12 100-388

(4) Single

captioned

*Practical

sheet, mimeographed on two sides,

securtty Measures.*

Carrying Anoricon."

(5) Gunmed windshield stickes, *I Am A Card

(6)

American*

Idontification Card of "A Cazd Carrying

with blank space for rockplent to fill in

hãs no; distributed by Americans tos Freedosy

124

Shortlold

Drive, Santa Barbara, Calat.

Mr. JOELSON advised he had executed ene of the

appiscation blanks and mailed it to linutenen headquaztezs,

Korborne,

Bo+

He did this

for the purpose of finding out

nore about the orcanization, and will advise the Tampa

Oftice of furthor informelon be zoceives.

It le ene

phasized that Mr: JOHNJON did this voluntarily and without

being requested to

co 80.

LEAD:

ELAME DIVISION

BLA.

it has not already beon done, identify the

Pence Foundattor,

2. 0: 00: 300011 moos. 118., 1010

popears to be either a branch of the Minutenon, or a

mall drop for same.

TANPA DIVISION

AT SAURA, BLA.

wi11 maintain contact with CARL V. JOHNSON and

endeavor

to ascertain through him, whother any unit of

Minutenon is active in Floxide.

80119-10500

53074

DocId: 32334582

Page 3

---

