# docid-32292286

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-378

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/08/1961

GAL, ASSOC, ATTORNEY, MONEY, INCOME TAX

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

y9.1

DocId: 32292286

Page 1

374

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-41 (Fiev. 6-2-61)

DECODED

Ode

OPY

Radio

• Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans!

Malone.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy -

URGENT

12-8-61

6:18 AM TN

JO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 080843

GUS

ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6316-C* ADVISED

THAT ON DECEMBER 5 LAST MIKE BRODKIN, PARTNER IN THE LAW

FIRM BIEBER AND BRODKIN, WHICH USUALLY REPRESENTS THE

HOODLUM ELEMENT IN CHICAGO, CONTACTED GUS ALEX AND FRANK

FERRARO WITH APPROXIMATELY $89,000 WHICH HAD BEEN CONFISCATED

ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO BY STATES ATTORNEY'S POLICE DURING A

GAMBLING RAID AT THE VIADUCT LOUNGE IN CICERO, ILLINOIS.

THIS MONEY WAS TURNED OVER TO BRODKIN AS THE ATTORNEY FOR

THE GAMBLERS INVOLVED IN THE ABOVE OPERATIONS AFTER COOK

COUNTY JUDGE PRO TEM JOHN M. KARNS LEARNED THAT IT COULD

NOT BE RETAINED BY THE STATE. THIS MONEY WAS TURNED OVER TO

ALEX AND FERRARO WHO IN TURN GAVE IT TO HY GODFREY APPARENTLY

TO BE TURNED OVER TO ROCCO FISCHETTI AND LESTER KRUSE.

BRODKIN AND ALEX WERE CONCERNED DUE TO THE FACT THAT FISCHETTI

WILL NOW HAVE TO DECLARE THIS MONEY ON HIS INCOME TAX RETURNS.

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES 92 - 3/82. 378

7:31 AM

25 DEL 5 :.

"ser

12 DEC 1'2 1907

If the selligence on aired in the above message is to

be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

s crypto graphic systems

DocId: 32292286 Page 2

---

