# docid-32300790

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10125

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-401762-1ST NR 141

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/14/1967

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

ICT, SHr, BKG, REL, ASSOC, EMP, EDUCATION, POLIT ANL

SUBV ACT, CP. PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY, FINANCES.

TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NU 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v01

HIT 54464

DocId: 32300790

Page 1

91

---

## Page 2

NY 100-42479

During this time also, she was an instructor in

the Jefferson School of Social

Science.

Subject's Trip to China

In 1959, FRANK COE, then and now a resident of

Peking, sent a message to the CP, USA, stating that the

OP of China wanted the subject to go to China to work on

the "Peking Review" for two years.

Subject and her husband did go to China in about

October of 1959 and returned to the US in the summer of

1961.

They went with the blessing of the CP, USA.

It is pointed out that at this time, both CHU

TONG and ISRAEL EPSTEIN were residents of China:

It is also pointed out that among thensubject's

closest associates are ROSE and CHARLES COE, brother of

FRANK COE.

CHARLES COE reportedly traveled to China in

1961 to visit his brother.

Travel of the Subject

In 1957, the subject stated before the House

Committee on Un-American Activities that she had never

traveled abroad.

Since 1963, she and/or her husband had traveled

follows:

9/63- RICHARD C. FRANK traveled to London and it

was subsequently reported

that while there, he met with

CHU TONG in the office of the export firm of JACK PERRY.

At this time,

the subject did not have a US passport and

was unable to travel.

5/64- RICHARD C. FRANK traveled to Europe where

„he transited the Malprensa Airport in Italy.

- 6 -

100-401762-

NW 54464 DooId: 32300790 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 100-42479

5/04 Subject traveled to Europe. Subject also

transited the Malprensa Airport. S/At this time, a meeting

was held in Albania of pro-Chinese Communists militants.

It is not known if the subject attended this meeting, but

she was in Europe at the same time.

6/65- Subject traveled to Algeria with BERYI

EPTON, wife of WILLIAM I. EPTON. Un her return to the

Us, she stopped in London.

1/66- Subject traveled to England and Belgium,

where she contacted individuals involved in pro-Peking

activitles.

12/56- Subject and her husband traveled to London,

France and North Africa, They stated to friends that this

was a vacation trip.

PLP

Subject,

since at least 1963, has maintal ned a

close relationship with MILTON K. ROSEN and WILLIAM L.

PLP publication "Challenge"

the name LISA ARMAND,

Ma range, a prosa va

under

The subject lectures at the Free

University of New York, & pro-Chicom school in NYC and

lectures to various PLP groups on the subject of China.

She has participated in teach-ins and public demonstrations

sponsored by the PLP.

The subject is not openly known as a member of

the PIP, but appears to be a prime mover in the formation,

organization and direction

of the Pie.

A rexiew of the

subject's case file indicates no significant involvement

•of the subject with MILTON K. ROSEN or WILLIAM I. EPTON

prior to her trip to China in 1959.

Subject was reported to be in contact with WILLIAM

F. ASH in London in January, 1966. ASH was connected with

a British organization which was pro-Chinese Communist.

-7-

1100-401762

NW 54464 DooId: 32300790 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 100-42479

in the US. This may be having an effect on this movement

in the US

as it has been pointed out that it may be the

reason for the cooling of the relationship between JAMES

and ANN LEE and the subject.

It has been reported in the past that non-Chinese

and particularly Americans, even though they are Communists,

are being avoided by Chinese Communists in order to

conform with the program to remove foreign influence from

their movement.

This may alter completely the subject's position

in the US vis-a-vis the CP of China.

It is believed that the subject's trip in

December, 1966, may have been to determine what her posi-

tion and

course of action should be in the US concerning

the cultural revolution.

Objectives of the NYO

NY 5225-$ was in China at the same time as the

subject and he has

returned to the US:

He has recontacted

the subject and tried to establish a close relationship

with her.

She has

not confided in him.

He has had dinner at her apartment on a few

occasions and during these dinners, the subject has

expressed herself in general term

as being in favor of

the Chinese Communists. u

NY 5225-S is a relative of some individuals who

maintain a pro-Soviet position in

the Sino-Soviet polemic

which may

pocount for the subject's lack of confidence

in him. &

RAD

NY 5225-S has recognized this problem and has

made statements to the subject to assure her of his

pro-Chinese position. (8(14)

• a 13 -

NW 54464 DooId: 32300790

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 100-42479

NY 5225-S, however, appears to be gaining the

subject's confidence and she

recently sent him a picture

post card

from

a vacation spot in North Airica./U)

He has invited both the subjet and her husband

to his home for dinner

and they have accepted. The date

has not been decided. (CAM)

Because of the limited number of the subject's

contacts and because they are almost exclusively pro

chinese communists and in the absence of sophisticatec

coverage of her activities, it is hoped that NY 5225-S

will gain the subject's complete contidence and anish

details concerning her activities.

sources

The NO will remain alert to develop other

who can furnish information concerning the subject's

activities.

HW 54464 DocId: 32300790

Page

5

---

