# docid-32332542

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90102-10189

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 64-200-210-859

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HAV

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/07/1951

'PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32332542

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: I1-14-2017.

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

HAVANA, CUBA

TITLE

COMMUNIST. PARTY OF CUBA

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

HAVANA, CUBA

DATE WHEN.

MADE

3/7/51

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

2/1-28/51

FiLE NO

100-45

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM CLAIR SPEARS

CHARACTER OF CART

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Summary of the general activities, statements,

and trends of the PARTIDO SOCIALISTA POPULAR,

which, fa the Communist Party of Cuba, for togert

month of February 1951.

=P_.

16161

Details:

Source T-l of knom reliability. furnished

the following

summary of: observations of the activities and statements of the

PARTIDO

SOCIALISTA: POPULAR

PSP) (Communist Party of Cuba) for the month of

February 1951.

February 6, 1951

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE!

ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE PARTY

The econonic situation of the party is rapidly becoming

desperate all over the island. Several local committees have been forced

to close because of lack of funds and many others will have to do likewise

at the end of this month because the rent has not been paid for several

months in many places.

1716013(30)

156/948-2/3/7>

At FBIHO requeNt

In the most important towns or districts the Communists

are desperately seeking funds from their affiliates, militants and sympathizers

in order to maintain their headquarters open until the time the government

decides to illegalize the party and proceeds to close their clubhouses..

The Communists say that every effort must be made to keep them open until

such time because it would certainly look bad if they were closed by the

Connunists themselves; on the other hand,

If they are closed by the government

FORWARDED:

SPECTA CHA

IN CHANGI

4

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau

Havana

56 MAR ELDEST

IN

FILE

"' DO NOT WRITE IN TI

200-210-859

MAR, 15 1951

RECORDED - 132

INDEXED

- 132

EX-30

Ite

PROPERTY OF FBI-THIS CONFIDENTIAL REPORT AND ITS CONTENTS ARE LOANED TO YOU BY TRE FBI AND ARE NOT TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE OF

AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED,

" S. GOVERNMENT

PRINTING OFFICE

1659255-1

DocId: 32332542 Page 2ha

---

## Page 3

/ DATE: 11-de- the John Y. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (1T USt Z1uY Notey

DATE: 11-11-2017

Havana File 100-45

IDENTIFICATION OF SOURCES

Source T-l: - C. I. HAV-2

REFERENCE

Bureau

1 File 64200-210

- 15-

DocId: 32332542

Page 3

---

