# docid-32576093

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 7/31/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM:

SAC, DETROIT (92-214) (P)

JA COSA NOSTRA

AR- CONSPIRACY

Re Milwaukee airtel, 7/17/64; CGairtel, 7/28/64; MI radiogram,

7/31/64•

DE 370-C-TE, DE 862-C-TE, DE 868-C-TE, DE 889-C-TE, DE 906-C*,

DE 919-C*

and DE 987-C* have furnished

no info indicating

travel out of Detroit area over week end of 8/2/64 of local

Possibility of a

No into received as result of airline stops previously placed.

JOSEPH ZERILLI, head Of Detroit "family" and "Commission" member,

is now at cottage at Higgins Lake, Mich. DE 889-C-Tt advised

131/64, that ZERILLI has bad eye infection, and that he has been

instructed to call ZERILLI night of 7/31/64, to determine whether

ZERILLI wants to be driven back to Detroit on 8/1/64, for further

medical attention.

The Bureau and Chicago will be advised of any pertinent

developments.

3

Bureau

2 - Chicago (92-1173)

1 - Milwaukee (92-262) (Info)

1 - Detroit

9216054-705

REC- 96

HEH: AMH

(7)

3 AUG 3 1964.

C C a Wick

40C

15 01

Approved:

6: 4 AUG 8

Sent

_M

Per

198 cial Agent in Charge

NW 45839 DooId: 32576093

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FP-36 (Rov. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

7/28/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

Alton

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, CHICAGO (92-1173)

'LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau airtel to Milwaukee dated 6/8/64; Milwaukee

airtel to the Bureau dated 6/12/64 and Chicago airtel to the

Bureau dated 6/29/64.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are four (4) aerial

photographs taken by Bureau Agents depicting a panoramic view

Of SAM "TEETS" BATTAGLIA'S Free Meadows Stock Farm, Route 1,

Pingree Grove, Illinois.

It is to be noted that MI 623-C-TE has furnished

information regarding a proposed meeting in the Chicago

vicinity on 8/2/64 of the La Cosa Nostra (LCN). The Bureau

this matter to insure that MI 623-C-TE is not compromised or

placed in jeopardy.

The Bureau is to be kept advised of all

pertinent developments.

= Bureau (RM) (Enc. 4)

1 • Boston

(RM)

1 - Buffalo (RM)

1

1

- Cleveland (RM)

Detroit (RM)

1

Kansas City

(RM)

LoS Angeles

(RM)

1

Miami (RM)

Milwaukee (92-262) (RM)

Newark (RM)

стої

8.!

New Orleans

(RM)

New York (92-2330) (RM)

Tampa, (RM)

Chicago

92-914

na 922-6054704

1 JUL 30 1964

WLB: kmh

(18)

2N10203033

Dal:

66 AU 1 3 196 cal Agen

Sent

_ M

Per

Charge

NW 45839 DooId: 32576093

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-1173

Milwaukee should maintain particularly close contact

with MI 623-C-TE for any additional details regarding this

proposed meeting and should immediately advise Chicago concerning

same.

Milwaukee advise Chicago if MI 623-C-TE contemplates attend-

ing meeting

By way of background, SAM "TEETS"

BATTAGLIA is a top

hoodlum in the Chicago Division. It has been reported by

several informants that BATTAGLIA is one of the Chicago area

Ill,

hoodlums who would replace SAM GIANCANA as head of organized

crime in the Chicago area when and if GIANCANA steps down.

BATTAGLIA has

owned and operated the

• Free Meadows Stock Farm

since 1947 and is the owner of record of this farm.

He is well

known in the farming community of Pingree Grove, Illinois, and

is deemed to be "a respectable citizen" in that

area. Chicago

Informants have advised that over the years Chicago area hoodtums

have frequented BATTAGLIAS farm particularly On weekende on

which occasions BATTAGLIA usos them for painting fences and repairs

to sone othe farm bulldings: This has been vertfied by ROBERT,

in

the Pingree Grove conmunity, his activities in that area have

been

'those of a model citizen and he is respected as

such in that

area.

The physical layout of BATTAGLIA's farm is situated

approximately 55 miles northwest of Chicago, The actual

location of this farm is approximately one half mile north of

Pingree Grove on Damisch Road.

The houses and barns are situated

on the crest of a hill on the east side of Damisch Road, affording

a commanding view of the country side in all directions.

It is

to be noted

that the farm

has three separate residences, large modern

swimming pool recently installed,

a racetrack for training race

horses and several other farm buildings.

BATTAGLIA owns or leases

many acres adjacent to the farm so that

the nearest points of

observation,

not on BATTAGLIA'S property, are far removed.

On 211

of BATTAGLIA's property, either owned or

leased, he has si

indicates that all trespassers

- 2

NW 45839 DooId: 32576093 Page 3

---

