# docid-32315156

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10339-10120

RECORD SERIES : BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-5-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BU

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315156

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Heleased under

the Join F. Kemedy Assassination

DATE: 11-14-2017

Revorits

Collection Act

1992-444 056 2107 Hotel:

BU 92-61

"You know his name. A big shot. A big

name.

He used

to bring them girls and

everything.

We all should do the same

thing. Because all these things are

lies.

They are putting on a circus.

They are taking information without

basis for it.

That no good bum (this is

an apparent reference to JOSEPH VALACHI)

has named things and names of 35 years

How can they accept this? That

cuckola, VALACHI!"

CAMILLERI subsequently departed remarking that he

would return in a few days and commenting that he does not

want to use the telephone.

Later on the same date, JOSEPH BONGIORNO was observed

with PETER A. MAGADDINO and the

subject. BONGIORNO indicated

that he was having trouble with his Social Security.

The

informant ascertained during this conversation that BONGIORNO

was born 9/6/16, that his parents were GUSEPPI BONGIORNO and

CONSTANCE CAROTTO (ph), and that he has Social Security Number

101-03-8193.

It should be noted that in this discussion the subject

stated the correct spelling of BONGIORNU's mother's maiden

name was CAROTIO (ph) with two Is.

Copies of this letter are

being furnished to the

Bureau, Albany, and New York for information purposes and in

view of the conjectural relationship of the Assemblyman, JOSEPH

CARLINO.

It is emphasized that this identification is

coniectural.

-4-

DocId: 32315156 Page 2

---

