# docid-32325565

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90036-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-160425-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

SJ

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/06/1967

4

ANGEL SANTOS BUSH

EJERCITO DE LIBERACION CUBANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45741 DocId: 32325565

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

TO

FRON

SUBJECT

CLASSIFIED

EXEMPT

DATE OF

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10'

¿EMAY 1962 EDITION+

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

SERNMENT

Memorandum

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-160425) ~

I DENT DATE:

6/6/67

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-9373) (P)

DECLASSIFIED BY SP 3 or ep

ON 1/21/95

EJERCITO DE LIBERACION CUBANO

plauce ai cor.

(CUBAN ARMY OF LIBERATION) (ELÇ)

HEADED BY HIGINIO "NINO"

DIAZ ANE)

Re pus curse corre

IS - CUBA

NM- CUBA

APPROPRISTE AGENCES ANT

FICES

(00: Miami)

ADVISED BY ROUTING SLID

31178049

510/158 (FRK)

11-5.

3/6/67, Atlanta letter and IHM to the Bureau 3/24/67, Newala

letter

and IHM to the Bureau dated 3/29/67, New York

lette E

to the Bureau 4/4/07, Atlanta airtel and LHM to the Bureau

4/20/07, Newark letter and LHM to the Bureau 5/11/67, andz

Miami letter and LHM to the Bureau 5/26/67.

CIA HAS

* *

THis

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an

LHM re captioned organization.:

One information copy each of LHM being submitted to

Atlanta, Newark, and New York offices in view of their interest

re ELC.

San Juan office will disseminate locally to 771st

MI-DET, NISO, OSI, U.S. Bureau of Customs, and U.S. Coast Guard.

LHM classified confidential in order to protect

SJ I-3 and SJ I-4, who are sources of continuing value and

whose identity if disclosed would be detrimental to

the

best interests of the United States.

Information furnished by CSSJ FORS NAVAS on 2/23/67

and contained herein was. obtained by FORS from his wife, who

isasecretary in the Public Relations Department at the

Bacardi Rum Distilling Company, San Juan,

Puerto Rico,

and

source's wife overheard LUIS LABOY,

Public Relations

at Bacardi, commens

another individual re

"PEPE" a "Director

contribution to

05-160425-

20

•Bureau (encl.

-Atlanta (105-3788)

(encl..

1)

(RM)

2-Miami (105-11869)

(encl.

(RM)

$ 106. pEc 26

1-Newark (105-20838)

(encl.

1)

(info:)

_-New York (105-84212

(RM)

IS JUN 12 1967

2-San Juan

opy to:

JJO: jkm

-UsTemS ONI/OSI/ACSI-Le

N-ANG

AN

2 by routing slip for info.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plane PraLi

5010-108-01

NW 45741 DocId: 32325565

Page

2

---

## Page 3

SJ 105-9373

These records showed that the residence of

VARONA was listed as Wesser #204 Rio Piedras Heights,

Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico.

I'nis account is now inactive.

On 5/9/67 H.L.S. RYDIN

; Accountant Operations,

Island Administration, First National City Bank, advised

SA GARY L. ENSMINGER

a review of bank records

failed to produce any record of an account of the subject

organization or HERNANDEZ.

RYDIN stated that their bank

maintains a

special checking account #528-870 and that.

the present balance is $47.51. VARONA's address was the

same as shown above.

spectar checking account, number 442-224. The balance

of this account

according. to RYDIN is $7211.57.

On May 24, 1967, Special Agent CHARLES I.

CAPEHART advised the review of records at Retail Credit

Bureau,

San Juan, Puerto Rico, failed to disclose any

information identifiable with ABEL VARONA orhis wife,

Mrs. ABEL DE VARONA LOREDO.

The above information regarding review of bank

records pertaining to the ELC was not set forth in LHM

in view of the negative results of such checks. Although

bank records did reflect a special checking account of

over $7,000 for Mrs. ABEL DE VARONA LOREDO, apparently

the wife of ABEL VARONA, Treasurer of ELC, there is no

positive information as of this time that

the money

maintained in this account is actually ELC funds and

therefore this information has not been set out in LHM.

San Juan Office files failed to disclose any

derogatory data regarding LUIS VALLE or JOSE ERNESTO

MUZAURIETA.

The address San Jorge Number 269, 3rd Floor,

referred to herein as the address where

"NINO" DIAZ was

residing while in Puerto Rico, is the residence of

resides

father of CSS,J

CS

on the second floor at the same address.

3

NW 45741 DocId: 32325565

Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

SJ 105-9373

CONFIDENTIAL

On 5/23/67 CSSJ L

J advised 'that he and

ILDEFONSO HERNANDEZ were concerned regarding the peculiar

behavior of an ELC member, ANA LUISAAdOTERA who is on

the ELC executive committeeand handles ELC corres-

pondence.

He described her as an intelligent individual

i deer bed her

and one who has been very active with

for the past là years.

According tol

2 in San Juan PuR.

COTERA is

augmentative and creates friction at ELC meetings; that

she is quick to introduce.herself to new members

and

makes a note of their names in addition to sketching

them, and has otherwise, through her behavior, aroused

and HERNANDEZ that she might be

a CASTRO agent.

further stated that JOOTERA is

trying to have the ELC establish a branch in Mexico City •

and have her brother, name unknown, who resides in

Mexico Citing

be designated as ELC representative in

Mexico

Jadded that very.

little is known

regardin

TERA's background

WENDER OF SUZISOS CAGA:

Based on this information

received from

San

Juan office will open a new 105 case regarding COTERA

in an effort to further identify her and determine the

nature

Of her past and present activities.

SJ T-1 is CSSJ RICARDO FORS NAVAS.

SJ

T-2 is CSSJ MARIO GARCIA SERRA

SJ

SJ

T-3

T-4

18 SJ 492-5 -

is CSSJ [

OTHER 4

-1

LEADS:

SAN JUAN DIVISION

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

Will continue investigation regarding activities

Of ELC and will advise the Bureau and Miami of any

pertinent information developea.

4

CSLIDE CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45741

DocId: 32325565

Page 4

---

