# docid-32301538

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10278-10373

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-797

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/30/1964

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301538

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Cortection Aut of

1997 714-150 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OF-10

Office Memoraidum • UNITED STA ES GOVERNMENT

• TO

Jesson

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-6054)

Legat, Rome

(92-80) (P)°

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

DATE: 9/30/64

ReBulet 12/5/63 and Romelet 7/20/64.

Enclosed is one fingerprint card for one GAETANO

GAGLIANO.

Page three of referenced Bureau letter indicates

that GAETANO GAGLIANO, FBI #673 129, is deceased.

This information was furnished to the Central

Bureau, Criminal Division, Italian National Police, Rome

Italy;

on 12/16/63 along with a copy of GAETANO GAGLIANO'S

identification record.

On 5/7/64 the Italian National Police advised that

‹since 7/14/54 GAETANO GAGLIANO has resided in Porto

Empedocle, Italy,

where he had not come to police attention.

→ It was noted that GARTANO GAGLIANO resides with a sister,

TERESA GAGLIANO; 42, widow.

It was also noted that GAETANO

GAGLIANO has a brother, GIUSEPPE GAGLIANO, who was deported

from the U. S. in 1955

for trafficking in drugs and who

returned to Porto Empedocle, Italy.

GI USEPPE GAGLIANO

subsequently disappeared from Porto Empedocle and it is

presumed he may have clandestinely returned to the U. S.

Finisprinte received with ther

litter 41 301616

580

The Italian National Police advised that since 1954

GAETANO GAGLIANO has not by his actions given any indication

that he is in any way connected with the underworld in the

U.S.

On 5/13/64 the Italian National Police were asked

for further information regarding GAETANO GAGLIANO so that

he could be

positively, identified or eliminated as being

identical with GAETANO GAGLIANO, FBI #673 129.

On 9/14/64 the Italian National Police furnished

the lenclosed fingerprint.card regarding GAETANO GAGLIANO. It

is suggested that the Bureau may desire to utilize this card

determine if'it pertains to GAETANO GAGLIANO, FBI #673. 129.

So,"

the Bureau may wish to amend its records to show that

GAETANO GAGLIANO is still alive.

92-60054-797

Bureau (Enc, IENCLOSUE" REC 12

I - roreign Liaison

3 OF ME

1964

Rome

(92-80)

JCM/

(A).

498

chactached

Idant this (mel)

DocId: 32301538

Page 2

TAKB/MES

---

