# docid-32319661

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10371-10192

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-L1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM: DOJ

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/15/1956

225

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, HSCA TICKLER VOL III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/13/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, LET, MEMO, TTY, NEWS ARTICLE, ARTICLE, NOTE, BILL, A/T, S/S,

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, LATENT REPORT, RECEIPT, SAC LET

v9.1

DocId: 32319661

85

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Ed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DAT

11-11-2017•

SECRET

SFO 145 1772212

00 HI MS

DE

SP S

2 322328

SA#

26 JUN 78 22

392

NECEIVED

FEDENAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UAOLASSIFIED

EXCEPE MUCKE SHOWN

OrSERTISE

(109-561 (P) (SQMD 16)

MMEDIATS

WIJAME

INOSE TATE

ĐT

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 Suo/gel

REASON:

1.5 ( c.d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X. 4(4)

S

CRET

100-02-644

ALLEGE HOT TÓ ASSASCINATE COLONEL CESAR QUINTEROS, CHIEF OF

GUATEMALAN SECURITY&

FeE * GUATEMALA + TERRORZON+

IN JUNE BOY 1970, * SOURCE OF RUESTIONABLE MILIRDILIXY

PUR MISAND- THE POLLOVING

ENPORMATZON TO A SPECIAL AGOUT OF THE

SAM FRARC 1S00 OFFICE OF THE FEDERAL SURCAU OF INVESTZGATZOW

R

00 J INs

Bl, 19780

THE ASSET WAS IN TELOPHONIG COUTACT

WITS A

PROMINENT. MIAMI, ATTORNEY, BON COMEN- CONER IS CUNRCITLY

BEINE INVEST ICATED DY THE BUREAU OF ALCONDLE TOBACCO AND FIRE-

ARMS CARPS AND IS UNDER SECRET IUDICTMENT OY THE FEDERAL GRAND

JIRY ON A WEAPONS VIOLATION.

THE SOURCE INDICATED TWAS COMEN

AMROD WOOD KIN ON

THE TELEPHONE IO A WILLIAN BELL, BELIES)

Courtres x 4632

CARBON COPY DO NOT FILE

dug Rm 4051

SUCRET

DocId: 32319661 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under, the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017.

ECF

RACE THO

SF 108-30

SECREY

GID ICATEO THAS HE NAD TRAVELLED EXTENSIVELY IN QUATEMALA AND WAS

SURRESTED IN STARTING SEVERAL DUSINESOES THERE INVOLVING THE

IMPORT ING OF LUGER, CATTLE; AND INE FRODUCTICN OF SINGLE FAMILY

DUELL INOS AND ALSO THE ESTABLISHMENT DE A WEAPONS FACTORY IN

GUATEMALA: BELL INDICATED THAT NE WISHED TO USE THE SOURSE*9

CONTACTS IN THE GUATEMALAN SO VERANENT TO EXPEDIZE HIS OUN

BUSINESS INCEREST IM THAT SOUNERY I INE PEOCEGS OF DISCUSSZNG

GUARENADA, BELL MENTIONED TO THE SOURDE THAT HE

VAS AARE OF

PLOT TO ASSASSINAOS TUE ONIES OF QUATEMALARI

ON THS FOLLOVING DATE JUNE 200 1970g THE ASSET WAS AGAIN IM

TELEPIOGIC COUTACT WICH BELL THE

, ARSET DETERMINED FROM BELL

THAT THE ASCASSMAZICN CONTRAOT HAD ORIGENADED FROM 4E8A004 AND

WAS SUPPOSED TO BO INC RESULT OF A PERSONAL VENDETTA ADD WOULD

BE CARRIED QUT BY IVO UNMANEO INDIVIDUALSE DELL AUDICATED THAT

WE IS PERSO MALLY ACQUATNSED WITH THE TUC ENDIVIONALS UNO ARE

SUPPOSED TO ASSISSIMATE QUENTEROS BELL INDICATED THAT THE TE

100 IV DUALE MORE BROTHENS AND BOTH WERE REZIRED SPECIAL_ FORCES

OFFIDENS* DELS INDIGATED THAT ONS OF THE SROTIERS HAD BECAOK

THE ASSAULT TEAM WHLCH LOCATED AND ASSASSINATED GIC GUEVARA

IN

SECRET

DocId: 32319661 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ReTeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, of 1992 (44 USC 2107 H0

DATE: 11-14-2017,

SECR

PAGE TIRCE

SE 100-36

SECRET

BOLIVIAS DELL DESCRIBED THIS INDIVIDUAS AS SCINO SIX FEET,.

FIVE INCHES TALL AND WEIGHINE 270 POUNDS& AND "EDLID AS A ROCK*"

WE AND LOSSED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL'S BROCHER WAS ALSO QUIXE

•LARGE IN STATURE,

DILL STATED THAT SHESE DUO EUDIVIDUALS WERE CURRENTLY I

FLORIDA ARE THAT HO HAD WALNED TO ONE OF TYEM OU THAT DATZ*

BOLL IN0 ICATZO THAT IME ASSASSINACION ASTENPY WAR TO 90CUR

BERORE THE JULY FIASE ERAUGGRATZON OF PRESIDENZ ELECT LUCAS 10

GUATEMALA CITY, GUATEMALA

THE BOURCE INQUIRED OF BELL UNGTHOR OR NOT ADINKEROS ON

PRESIDENE ELECE LUCAS WAS AVARE OF TRE ASSASS WATION PLOTE

SELL INDICATED THAT HE HAD WARNED RUINEROS OF THE ALLOCED

ASSASSINATTOD ATTEMPE ARD HAD IDENTIFIED THE WOULD-BE ASSASSINS

TO MIME BELL STATED THAT THE TUO WOULD-RE ASSASSINS HAD BEEN

IN GUADEMALA BEFORE AND THAT THE CUATENAL AM SECURITY ORGANZZA*

TRONG KNEW THE INDIVIDUALS AND HAD PYOTOGRAPHS OF THEM: BELL

INDICATED THAS PRES DENT ELECE LUCAS WAS BOT AWARE OF TRE

ASSASCINACION PLOT UNLESS QUINTEROS HAD

INFORMED HIM OF IT

(5)

BELL IRDIONTED THAT HE WAS KEEPING TRACK OF THESE TUO

TUIVOUALS AN SOULD KNOW AS SOON AS THEY LEFT

FLORIDA AND (S)

SECREA

DocId: 32319661 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Kereased under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Ho

DATE:

11-14-2017.

SECREN

WAGE FOUR

95 135m36

SECRET

NOLD. NT THAT TIME CONTACT QUINTEROS*

(5)

MARE VIRA THE INPORMATION,

TIC ASSCT ASKED BOLL WETHOR BR NOT- TNE

TVO VOULD+0& ASSASSERS

COULD BE STOPPSO IN THE BUTTED STATES BEFORE INEV LEFT THE COUMERY*

GELL INDICATED ENAT ME DID NOT THINK SO DECAUSE THEY MAD TOO MANY

FRIENS I TRE US, COVERLENT, BALL TADICATED THAT IP ME WENT

"TO TAN LAGO STATE DEPARIMENS AND TALKED TO JACK KING, WHO MAUDLES

CENTRAL AMERICAN APPAIRS A AND

ASK RIVC 70 PREVENT THESE TUO INDI

VIRULE FROM LEAVING THE COUNTRY, MING WOULD PROBABLY GETUSE

BECAUSE INE TWO INDIVIDUALS MAVE BEEN COOPERATING WITH ING STRIKE

FORCE PROSECUTILE GROUP IN FLARIDA IN IDENTIRVING DRUG DEALERS

INORE, BOLE STATED INAT THE STRIKE FORCE PEOPLE WOULD DE VERY

AIRY. WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT SINCE PRESE TWO INDTVIDUALS HAD

COOPERATED WITH THEM AND HERS CURRENTLY DOJOG SO $

BELL INDICATED TO THOSURCE NAT HE NAD MOGUN THO

WOULD-DE ASSASSINS FOR A LONG TIME AND RUCH THEM 10 BE EXTREMELY

CLEVER MEN WHO HAD DONE THIS TYPE OF COB IN THE PASTE

BELL

AND JONTED NAT TROY HAD BLED INVOLVOO N0 A LOT OF GUSSEIO MABLE

AM IVITIES IN THE FAST WALCH HAD NEVER COME OUT TUTO THE PUBLIO

LICIZe BE: BROICATED THAT HE RUEW ONE OF THE BROTHERS NAD BOCA

SECREA

DocId: 32319661 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017.

PAGC FIVA

3P 100+00

SE ORE 1

SM DALLAS AND NO NEW ORLEANS WITH OSWALD

1N

1966 SSADAS PRESI

DENI KENNSDY WAS ASSAGSINATED IN DALLASS HE SAID THRT THIS

SANE INIVDUAL MAD ALSO DEEN IN MEMPHISE TEDNESSES BEFORE

MART TIG LUKHER KING WAS ASSASSINATED & BELL INOICATED THES

IN0 IVIDUAL WAS VORCENARY AND HAD

NO POLITICAL LOYALTIES HO

SATES TRAY MN MAD MEARO RUMORS THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL. HAD DEES

IN CUDA RION• BEFORE THE BAY OF PIES INVASION THC INPLICATION

WAS THAT THIS JADIVIDUAL MAY MAVE WARDED CASTRO'S GOVERUMEN!

OFERS RIPEND INC INVASION*

SELE

ID IGATED THAT HE WAS CURRENTLY RESIDING IN ROOM 1240

OF THE

PANTAINALEAU NOTEL IN MIAMI, MORIDA AND THAT HE GOULD

DE REMAINING THERE UNTIL JUNE 26, 19784 A7 UNICK TIMC HE VOULD

BE ELVING 10 GUATEMALA CTEY GUATEMALA. BEL TOLD INE SOURCE

TRAL WE COULD CONTACT HIM AT THE FOMTAINOLEAU HOTCL OR IN

POPANO SEAGRA FLORIDA, AT THE ENGLE ARME COMPANY WHERE 344

IS SIS TREASINOR OF SHS COMPANY,

ON MINE DE, 1978% A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE BOREAU OF

AL CONOL, TOBACCO AND FIREARUS CANTS ARSIGUED TO THE OAMLAND,

CALIFORUIA RES DENT SOGGY& FURNISIED THE FOLLOWING INPORMATIONE

HE 180 SCAGED THAT RESEARCA DONE BY RIW THROUGN ARE SOURCES MAD

SECRE

DocId: 32319661 Page 6

---

## Page 7

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hot!

*DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

SIX

$M 109-50

DETENTIO INA? CULLIAM DELL WAS A FORTER SPECIAL FOROES COLONEL

WHO: HND DEEN ASSING TO THE MOING UASE MELITARY ADVISORY CROUPS

" BELL IS CURRENTLY THE GREASURER OF EAGLE ARNS CORPORARION IN

POPAND BACKE PLORIDA. EAGLE ARISE CORPORATION WAKES FROTOTYPE

WEARONS FOR RENE MILLINSTOR ABMUNITION AND

IS NOT LICENSED 10

MANUFACTURE: ANYTHING OTHER SHAM PROTOTYPES

HE: INDICAZEO THAT

ER THE BAGIE OF THE DESCRUPTIVE INTORNATIOS FURNISHED BY BELL ES)

NE MAS REASON TO SELIEVE THAT TRE IOEVILTIES OF THE TWO WOULD-BE

ASSASSING ARE

• A. CANUS PAPPY SMELTON, UNO IC A ACTINGO SPECIAL

FOR 02S

AUD.

MES BROTHER, JOC SMELTON, ALSO A RETINED

SPECIAL

RoMas 3

OFFIOOR,

HE, STRESSED THAT THIS 1E NOT A FOGITIVE

DENTIFICATION;

NO WOVER

FITS WITH THE INVORMAZION THAT SELL

GAVS TRE

AS Ace

THOS

ODS

: OF THE WOULD-DE ASSASSINS WAS & MAJOR

00 ILG

ASSAULD TEAM

7HAN

ASSASSIMATED CHE GUEVARA* THE ATE

REPRE SCUTAT IVE

SUD I CATED - THAT

QIG POUNCES NAD VERIFISO RIALTS)

PARDY SOLION KAD DECD

INIS ASSAULT TEAMIND ALSO

FIX

THE

DESER ART JON GIVE # BY

7017 ()

CNE CONNIRSATIONO DERVIE

INS SOURCE ANO WILLIAN BELL WERE

RECORD SU BY THE SOURCE

SPECIAL aDEN? OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU

OF MNVESTIGNDION WAS

,ME VISIED

THESE TAPES

AND, CAN VERIPY THAT

SECRET

DocId: 32319661

Page 7

---

## Page 8

agen under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records comer

ATE":

11-14-2947 .

SECRE

PAGE SEVEN

1 HE

SE 109÷3€

SECRET

INFORON: 20N PRO VIDED BY THE SOUROE RELAZIVE TO HIS CORVET*

SAT IOUS HITH BELI

ACCURATE+

AD MIUS SIR AZ IVE :

RE SAD BANCISCO TELETYPES+ JUNE 02 AND 25, 1978, CAR

710 ASS: DESAR QUISTEROS ( PONCTIO), FOREIEN POLITICAL MATTER *

GUATEMALA,* AND BUREAU IELETYPE TO SAN FRANCISCO AND MIAMI+

DUNG 24P 107Q4 CAPTIONED AS INSTANT MATTER

THE RECEDINE IUPORMATION IS SUZZABLE SOR DISSEMIUAT 1OU÷

CUP

THE SOURCE NENTIONED IN THE ADOVE SECTION. IS FORMER-

3P 9880-04 (5) *)

ONE REPRESCUTADIVE OF THE BUREAU OF ALGOROL, TOBACCO ANO

FIREARMS WHO (FURNISHED THE INFORMATION AGOVE IS SCHIOR RESIDEWI

AGENT OF THE DARLAND OFFICE, BILL MALLERT. CUS

SAN PRANG ISOR NOTES ENATHE ASSET RECORDED THE CONVERGA

I IOUS ERIWEED VALLIAM BELL AND KINSELF AE NIS OUR VOLITION AND

WAS-AT NO TIME UNDER ZHE DIRECTION OF THE FET

TRE ORIG IVAL COPIES OF THE TAPE RECORDINS MADE DY INE

ASSE

ARE 9E 3NG

MAINTAZAZO BY THE ATT OFFICE IN OAKLAND FOR

SECRET

DocId: 32319661

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 HO

DATE: 11-11-2047.

SECRET

PADE FICHE: • ST 109-36

SEAR

i ET

AWY POSSISLE EVENTIARY VALUE THEY MIGMY HAVE IN THE INVESTIGA*

TION OF DER CONCI®

THE FOLLOWINE MAJOR CONTRADICTION IS NOTEO BY BAN FRANCISCO &

CELL INDICATED TO THE ASCES THAT NE HAD WARNED QUINTEROS OF THE

ASSASSINATION FLOTS NOVEVER, IN REFURENCED BUREAU TELETYPE TO

MUANG QUAMEROS ADVISED TRAI HE HAD NO% BEEN ADVISEO OF THE

ASSASS IMAX IOU PLOT BY AMYONE*

BELL DAY DE LYING ABOUR ADVISING

QUININOS OF THE ASSOTTION MOTOR CUTTEROS HENSEL MAY

NAVE BEEN

PUCVIOUSLY AUARS OP 1H8 PLOT

HIS SOURCES,

EE WIG SYRT GS BEEN CORROBORATED THAT IT SHOULD BE TAXEN

SECRES

DocId: 32319661

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

, DATE: 11-14-2017

6-12-78

TO

DIRECTOR,

ATTN:

FBI

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (175-14) (RUC)

SUBJECT

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Re Bureau teletype, 6-7-78.

Two teams representing HSCA arrived in Mexico CIty

during the period 5/28 - 31/78. The announced purpose was

for one team to look into the Mexican aspects of the assassin-

ation of former President JOHN F. KENNEDY and the second would

be doing the same thing with regard to the assassination of

DI. MARTIN LUTHER KING.

On 6-8-78, MEX-244 advised that he had been approached

for an interview by one of these teams. He was visited at his

hone on 5-25 - 26-78 by HONORIO HERNANDEZ ESCANDON, of the

Federal Judicial Police, who asked him if he would participate

In such an interview. After consulting with this office, the

source agreed.

On 5-31-78, he was intervleved in his home by GARY

CORNWELL, HAROLD LEAP, EDWIN JUAN LOPEZ and "DANIEL" HARDWAY.

They were accompanied by Cate. FLORENTINO VENTURA, of the

Federal Judicial Police (FJP), and two other FJP representatives.

After the intervlew, the source agreed to partielpate in a

second interview in which his remarks would be tape recorded.

Tbis was set for Saturday, 6-3-78, but he was not contacted

on. that date.

On 6-5-78, he was visited by HERNANDEZ, DE. ALTONSO

OROZCO CONTRERAS and one member of the Committee staff, who

may be LOPEZ,

and served as interpreter during the eartfer

meeting.

OROZCO was introduced as a "coordinator of some

department of che FJP.

3 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Desk)

1 - Mexico City

JJP: Img

(4)

DocId: 32319661 Page, 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2102 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 175-14

The source stated that he had participated in a

recorded interview which lasted about forty minutes.

He

was asked to look at two albums of photographs and was able

to pick out a photograph which he believed to be LEE HARVEY

OSWALD, even though it was not a particularly good likeness.

The HSCA representatives apparently had a verbatim

account of information furnished by the source when he was

first interviewed at the U. S. Embassy after the KENNEDY

assassination. There were many details in this account which

the source was no longer able to remember. He did remember

burping taco a man Leaving the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City

in late September or early October, 1963. He can recall that

this man was counting money and a few other details related

to the experience.

He has consistently stated that he believes

this man was OSWALD.

The source said that HSCA representatives questioned

him about the Spanish-speaking ability of those who interviewed

him at the Embassy. They suggested that those conducting the

interview might have misunderstood at least sone of the

information which the source was furnishing at that time.

They asked whether the statement was read back to him and

signed by him.

He now is unable to recall, but believes it

was not.

He states that he did acknowledge that there

might be a possibility that some of his information was

misunderstood by those interviewing him at the time, but

that he could not, after fifteen years, recall the details.

The Bureau will note that the Mexico City file

pertaining to the source was not opened until 9-9-64, and Bureau

authority to deal with him on a confidential basis was received

in a letter dated 10-8-64.

there was no relationship of any

Kind between the source and this office prior to 11-22-63 and

no confidential relationship at the time he was first

interviewed at the U. S. Embassy in Mexico City.

IL-44 was involved in some aspects of the JAMES

BARL RAL investigation in the State of Jalisco, Mexico.

* That

source has been alerted to the visit of the HSCA Team, but

has reported no contact to date.

2.

DocId: 32319661 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASCA

5/26/78

UNCLAS EFT O

ROUTINE

FO DIRECTOR FBI 062-2372503

TO FBI COLUMBIA ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS EFT O

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAJ

REFCRENCE COLUMBIA TELETYPE MAY 22• 3978-

COLUMBIA SHOULD PROMPTLY DETERNINE IF CO 80-C CFORBERLY

CO 80-S7 HAS ANY DESECTION TO DISCLOSING HIS CONFIDENTIAL RELA-

TIONSHIP WITH THE FBI DURING TESTIMONY DEFORE THE MSCA ON

JUNE 6o 3978- IF HE HAS NO OBJECTIONS TO SUCH DISCLOSURE: THEN

HE SHOULD BE TOLD THE FEI IS AGREEABLE- IF INFORMANT DOES NOT

WANT HIS CONFIDENTIAL RELATIONSHIP REVEALED- ADVISE HIM THAT IF

HE DESIRES, REPRESENTATIVES AT FBING WILL BRIEF CONGRESSHEN

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN- HSCA- AND SAMUEL DEVINE, RANKING MINOR-

ITY HERUER- HSCA - CONCERNING INFORMANT'S SITUATION PRIOR TO

INFORMANT'S APPEARANCE GEFORE THE COMMITTEE IN EFFORTS TO PRE-

VENT QUESTIONING CONCERNING HIS INFORMANT STATUS -

STA :LEd

€53

5/26/78

8958/4

3665

1 - 170-932

* - LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

ATTRE D. 0• COULSON

- - CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

ATIN: M- V- HALE

MIN. G-d- FOSTER

SEE NOT PAGE 3

DocId: 32319661 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASCA

C00743 1421944

00 No

DE CO

0 2219442 Мд7 78

PH COLUMBLA (157-2045) (P)

TO DIRECTOR INMEDIATE

22 MAN 78 19 64-

RECEIVEO

FEDERAL BUREAU

CORMUNIGATIONS SECTION

PUNCLAS EF TO

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTER ON ASSASSIDATION (HSCA), BUFILE 62-117190.

CO 8U-C (FORMERLY GO 80-S) VAS CONTACIED THIS DATE BY

MARN A • STEISER AND ROBERT A • WALKER, STAFF INVESTIGATORS FOR

CAPTIONED COMNITTEE, THEY VISITED WITH CO 80 AT HIS RESIDENCE

AND INTERVIEWED HIM IN DETAIL CONGERNING ANY RNOWLEDGE HE MIGHT

§ HAVE OF THE REV• MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION AS WELL AS

KENOLDY ASSASSINATIONS- HE HAS BEEN SUBPOENAED FOR CLOSED

HEARING JUNE 6, 1978, AT WASHINGION D. C• AND WAS TOLD BY

ABOVE INDIVIDUALS THAT HE WOULD BE ASKED AUDITIONAL QUESTIONS NOT

PRESENTED TO HIM AT MEETING THIS DATE. CO 80 REQUESTED GUIDANCE

N'FROM THE BUREAU AS TO WHETHER OR NOI HE SHOULD REVEAL TO COMNITTER

O HIS CONFIDENTIAL RELATIONSHIP WITH THE BUREAU. THE BUREAU 15

REQUESIED TO ADVISE IF CO 80 SHOULD MAKE AVAILABLE TO COMMITTEE

HIS INFORMANT RELATIONSHIP.

CARBON COPY DO NOT FILE

Doold: 32319661 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoted.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SLa/gl

REASON:

DECLASSIFY O

1/15/12

Mr. Bassett

5/9/78

1 - Mr. Bassett

D. Byan

1 - Mt. Cregar

(Atta: Me, Nolan)

(Attn: Mr. Kinsey)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

1 - Mr. Minta

(Attn: Mx. Coulson)

1 - Mx. Ryan

T@- Mr. Foster

PURPOSEs To furnish additional information relating to news reporter

Kent Biffle's interest in captioned subject.

DETATIS: Kent Biffle's name was noted, among others, in personal papere

belonging to Lee Harvey Oswald (Buffle 105-82555-2579). Biffle was

intervieved by the FBI on 12/16/63 (Buffle 105-82555-1212) • He advised

that he was formerly employed by the Fort Worth (Texas) Press as a reporter

in the latter part of 1959 and had been assigned to prepare articles on

Oswald'e defection. He mentioned no personal contacts with Oswald, but

stated he utilized public source information on Oswald and had contact

with Oswald's nother and brother for background infornation. He also

stated that the resultant articles (three) contained "all the infornation

which he actually knew about Oswald."

Recent review of information obtained from a very sensitive

source in 1959 discloses that Biffle telephonically tried to contact

Oswald in Russia. One call on 11/14/59 to Oswald at the Hotel Metropole

in Moscow was "placed" by a "Mr. Biffle," although no conversation was

recorded, Another call to the hotel by a "Ken Bissle" on 11/16/59 was

cancelled because of a poor connection (New Tork -1le 65 14025-5-1677

and 1679)• The source of this Information has not been uttliced since

So, has pot been disclosed according to Infornation in file (Buftl

05-7367)Pand remains sensitive having been characterized in 1970 as

source, the "disclosure of which would seriously affect the internal

security of the United States."

Since source information does not disclose the results of any

contact between Biffle and lewald while Oswald was at the Hotel Metropole

In Moscow in 1959; since the FBI did interview Biffle conceming his

interest in Oswald, which he explained; since the new detaile add nothing

nor Change what is known; and since further written dissemination of these

nev detaila might only serve to compromise a former source by the

of the new infornation is warranted

DJCinel (7)

Classifeu tys

Declassi

184

211826

CONTINUED → OVER

CLASSIFIED BY

6437

EXEMPT FROM GES CATEGORY A

3

JAIL OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

DocId: 32319661

Page 14

---

