# docid-32320858

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

• Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10376-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-2269

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

ARMY

FROM: ARMY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/16/1997

7

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JFKARCA OF 1992

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

1B

Redact

04/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 3 MEMO'S

v9.1

DocId: 32320858

169

Page i

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

372

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, DC 20310-1001

September 16, 1997

REPLY TO

ATTENTION OF

Counterintelligence and

Human Intelligence Directorate

Ms. Carol L. Keeley

Supervisory Paralegal Specialist

JFK Task Force

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washington, D.C. 20535

Attention: Ms. Debbie Beatty

Dear Ms. Keeley:

(U) This is in response to your request that the enclosed

Federal Bureau of Investigation documents be reviewed for

possible release under the provisions of The President John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

(C) The documents have been reviewed. The information may be

released with the exception of the information bracketed in

green.

The bracketed information cannot be released at this

time.

The mail intercept found within the documents was a joint

United States/Gernan operation.

The German Government has noted

that this type of information is still considered classified.

(U) A small anount of information has been marked for

postponement based upon personal privacy issues. If there are

additional questions concerning this review please contact Mr.

Bert Haggett at 703-697-7993.

Sincerely,

ALL FBI NO

HEREIN

ĐAT 3/1 49

TOM COMMANED

56668-510/1de

(JFK)

Enclosure

Derived from: Multiple Sources

Source marked: Not Indicated

Review on X-1

Regrade Confidential when separated "",?!

from classified enclosures

Army

¡Director of Counterintelligenc

and Human

Intelligenc

CeC: +9-1029205-2269

DocId: 32320858 Page 2

SECRET

---

