# docid-32289528

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10304

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-582

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

444 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#: NW 45966 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/20/1962

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, TELCAL, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45966

DocId: 32289528

41

Page 1

---

## Page 2

รท1

JEK Act 6 (4)

TP 92-1

B

previous marriage staying at 2505 Bristol for summer visit

with her father.

MANUEL JUNCO (protect),

Auditing Section, Internal

Revenue Service, Tampa, advised 7/18/62.

JEK Law 11(a)

TP 41-C advised 7/19/62 he had not been in contact

with subject since subject was last reported with JAMES C.

LONGO on 1/5/62 at the Boston Bar,

22nd Street and East

Columbus Drive,

Tampa, at which time subject attempted to

contact JOHN RIVERA.

0n 7/19/62,

PCI (protect), advised subject

alone at the Columbia Restaurant, 4:30 p.m., Sunday, 7/15/62

and had supper.

Subject next appeared alone at Columbia Res-

taurant at 10:15 a.m., 7/19/62.

A white Chevrolet Impala, described above, observed

at subject's residence in Tampa afternoon 7/19/62 and also

car of FRANK TRAFFICANTE observed at subject's residence.

t.

On 7/20/62, AUSA TOM HANLON advised USDJ JOSEPH LIEB

set civil tax case

concerning TRAFFICANTE's back taxes for

9/10/62 in a non-jury trial and he was not handling case,

but someone from the Department of Justice, Washington,

D.C.,

Tax Division, whose identity is unknown to him, would probably

be handling

the matter.

REVIEWED BY JFK TASK FORDE

LEAD:

ON 2-2298 dol

MIAMI DIVISION

I RELEASE IN FULL

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

I RELEASE IN PART

CI TOTAL DEMIAL

Ascertain through sources present

location SALVATORE..

G. SCALIA RUGIERES, who is formerly reported closely associated

with subject when in Havana, Cuba.

Endeavor to secure film clips of subject when at 723

N.E. 7lst Street

Miami and when in contact with Miami hoodlums

under investigation there.

- 2 -

| HH 45966

DocId: 32289528

Page 2

---

