# docid-32397437

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10433-10120

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : MEMO: FENSTERWALD REQUEST FOR 20 PHOTOGRAPHS

DATE : 10/11/1972

PACES : 1

SUBJECTS : OSWALD, L H

FENSTERWALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIEI

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

OF LAST REVIEW

: 12/17/98

COMMENTS :

JFK-RH19: FO1: 1998.12.17.15:41:28:700120 : FILE

ORIGINAL IS PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED DOCUMENT DOCUMENT.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10433-10120

HH 53320

DocId: 32397437

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Il October 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBTECT: "Fensterwald Request fox 20 Photographs

• 1 I interviewedl

who retired recently

from the Agency, on Friday night,

29 September: We met at

home,

assigned to the Mexican station during the Oswald investigation

and was thoroughly lamitizr with the Mexican aspects of the case.

I showed

the 24 February, FBI memorandum and she said that

she could not identify any of the 20 photographs and doubted that

they originated with the CIA. She stated that if the photographs were

passed to the FBI at any given time, she certainly would have laown

about it; that"

personally super-

vised the case and would have come to her for the pictares.

She

allowed for no exceptions.

is now dead, as is!

"the FBI legal attache who headed the FBI investigation in Mexico.

stated that the interrogator probably collected the pictures frore

a linug book" (look-out notices maintained in the embassy) which

wa's available to the FBI. This book consisted of American soldiers

AWOL, American travelers to and from communist countries, pez-

sons wanted for criminal violations, etc. The photos came from a

variety of sources including FBI headquarters, CIA, U. S. military

services, and the Mexican police:

2 We also queried the Mexican station regarding the 20

photographs with negative results. The entire station mele

Son Lee Harvey Oswald was forwarded intact to Headquarter

on 25 February 1970. These also were examined without success.

Document Number

1183-435

for FOlA Review br

1976

HH

53320

DocId: 32397437 Page 2

---

