# docid-32334070

## Page 1

"Released under the Joln F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90110-10063

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3575-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BELMONT

TO : SIZOO

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/28/1958

JOSEPH MEROLA

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32334070

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

Rereased under the Dorn F. Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

:J. A. Sizoo

DATE: August 28, 1958

Tolson

Boardman

FROM : A. H. Beynort

Belmont .

AL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFICL

DATE 1/2/95 BY spot

Mohr -

Nease

Parsons

SUBJECT:

ALLEGED

EXPEDITION TO OVERTHROW

HAITIAN GOVERNMENT

NEUTRALITY ACT

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

Clayton

Tele. Room

Holloman

Gandy

SAC Teague of Miami at 2:53 p.M.,

August 28,

advised he l

poster

had been visited by the Vice Consul of Haiti, Rudolf Babour, about

45 minutes previously.

Babour said he had information from

unnamed informant who was a Haitian citizen. The informant told

Babour there was going to be another shipment of arms to Port Au Prince,

Haiti, The informant wanted Babour to give him $10,000 for his

operation.

anjormant said there were 21 Americans involved includin

ne Leonard Bird ánd Joseph Merola (Teague said there was no recore

on Bird, and Merola is a top jewel thies who lives in Miami Beach.).

Informant told Babour that five FBI men are involved in this

matter.

Teague told Babour this was ridiculous. Babour said informant

would not tell him who was involved until he got money. Informant

'told Babour that there was a place for storage of arms

and ammunition

withstande between florida and Haiter Informant said further that

there was a $70,000 cache of arms on

some unknown pilot was allegedly given $10,000 to fly arms to Haiti.

The pilot's wife is a cousin of a ur. Dillard, who owns a lumber

company in Miami.

Dilhard allegedly is trying to get a lumber

contract in Haiti.

Teague pressed the vice Consul for the name of the

informant but the vice Consul did not give it to him because he said

he was still dealing with the informant and that he would get further

details. Teague told Babour that unless he gave him full information

there was not much we could do regarding this. Teague furnished

because of the allegation on shipment of arms.

Teague is also

aduising Customs.

ACTION:

I told. Teague that he should run this out as far as

he

could based on the limited information; that he should try to identify

the unknown pilot, and possibly interview Dilliard, the lumber man.

I told him that as the allegation involves an alleged plot to send an

expeditionary force to Haiti

we should conduct investigation

until

we could establish whether there was truth to

the allegation.

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - MT. Siz00

REC- 80

91-3115-4

11 SEP 3 1958

F-114

EX-135

68 SEP 151958

classific (up)

a sital,

DocId: 32334070 Page 2

---

