# docid-32210991

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER

:179-40003-10446

RECORDS SERIES :

10: GARST, JAMES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE

PAGES

: 08/31/64

SUBJECTS :

LANE,

MARK

GARST, JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: ₽

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

//

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

COVER MEMORANDUM; P.

1-2; BOX F06

= ----

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

50529

DocId:32210991

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Commission No.

1487

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT Qnd STaviduals and Organizations

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIENNON or Interviewed

Farct

I Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

August 31, 19645-a5-84

Classimed.hy/565 SURfAHR

MARK LANE

JAMES DELANCY GARST

Declassify on:

AbBEtA 4803

RADIKSR

T-1,

a confidential source abroad, advised as Loilous 3-3-93

on August 25, 1964:

U)

JFK

MARK IANI visited the United Kingdon between April 14,

1964, when he arrived at London Airport from Copenhagen,

and April 16 when he left London Airport for Amsterdan,

Holland.

"A secret and reliable source of I-l reported

that he had attonded the lighth Congress of the Interna-

tional Association of Denocratic Lawyers' (IADL) which was'.

held in Budapest from March 31 to April 6, 1964. The

Continental press carried a story to the effect that he

explained his views on the Kennedy assassigation and asked

the INDL to form an international committeeiof noted lawyers

to discover the real circunstances under which the Kennedy

assassination occurred.

LANE returned to England on June 9, 1964, arriving

at London Airport Irom Copenhagen, Denmark.

He was ac-

companied by his flancee, Miss ANNE-LISE DABELSTEEN, a

designer, born May 15, 1941, traveling on a Danish pass-

port No: 2301698. Shortly after his arrival he attended

a press conference at the Airport which had been arranged

by JAMES DELANDY GARST and at which LANE again expressed

his views on the Kennedy assassination.

He also told the

reporters that BERTRAND FUSSEL had written to hin to say

that he wished to form an organization in England to be

called the "Who Killed Kennedy Committee?".

to say that the Committee had now been forned, without a

chairman,

but with GARST as secretary.. They have received

some publicity in the British press,

in particular in the'

"Daily Worker" of June 12 and 30, ,1964.

According to LANE,

the objects of the Conmittee were to collect and disseminate

all available information and evidence relating to the as-

sassination of President Kennody and to insure justice for

the Oswald Lamily.

T-I has no information to show to what

extent the Committee is actively pursuing these objects.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAN

HERE IC UNCLASSIFIED

EXCOPY WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/RSR

DECLASSIFY O: 25X: (6)

7/26/97

JFR)

450529

DocId: 32210991 Page 2

210d

---

## Page 3

SECRET

LANE was to have loft England for Florence and

Rome on June 11, 1961. He paid another visit to England

between June 21, 1964, when he arrived at London Airport

from Brussels, Belgium, and June 30, 1964, when he left

London for Now York, having been recalled to appear before

the Warren Commission Investigating President Kennedy's

death.

During this latter visit ho did not come tu 1-l's

attention. (5)

With regard to the "Who kliled Kennedy Committoo?",

tho secretary, JANES DILANTY GARST, iS taking & greater

interest in the Anarchist movement.

He left the United

Kingdom for Detroit by air on June 30, 1964, and T-1 has

no evidence of his return as yet. He

has recently been

under consideration for appointment as tutor in Extra-

Mural Studies at the Univorsity of Dar-es-Salaam in

Tanganyika.

I-I is unable to say whether he will obtain

this appointment.

5)

T-1 furnished a copy, which is attached, of an open

letter issued by Lord BERTRAND RUSSELL at the time of the

formation of

the "Who Killed Kennedy Committee".

The

Other menbers of the committee are listed in paragraph 2

of page 6.

I-I pointed out that none of the members of

the Committee were considered to be Conmunists, although

they cover a large spectrum of leit-wing opinions and

have in varying degrees been publicly associated with

organizations penetrated,

and in some cases, controlled

by the communist. Party of Great Britain,

Enclosure

SECRET

50529

DocId: 32210991 Page 3

---

