# docid-32161929

## Page 1

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Regards Collection Act Of 1992 (14 USC 2107

DATE 1L 14. 201K

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10144-10290

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-3702-1146

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

JOHNSON. E. O.

DATE: 06/08/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, TRA, TRIP TO MX 9/26/63

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

11/26/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32161929

Page 1

---

## Page 2

- Released under the John f.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 1

Moderer. SheeDATErfortionil Reputila

FD-306. (3-21-58)

CONPIDENTIAR

-

Date received

Received from (name or symbol number)

6/11/64

Method of delivery

in person

7(4(U)

(check appropriate blocks)

_by telephone

by mail

* Received by

E. l. Johnson

orally

- recording device

# written by Informant

If orally furnished and reduced to writing by Agent:

Date

Date of Report

6/8/64

Dictated

DECLASSIFIED BY 56l08 32D/

Transcribed.

92776

Authenticated

by informant

PALL FORMATION CONTAINEr

HEREIN IS XACLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Brief description of activity or material

1126193

CLASSIFIED BY.

DECLASSIEY ON:

File where origin

ted if not attached

137-5A

Remarks: 105-5702. LEE HARVEY OSWALD-IS-CUBA-R

(Serial 1056)

PASSENGERS ON THE FEEDER BUS WHO BOARDED BUS 10. 332 at SAN LUIS

POTOSI on 10/2/63.

Sr. ZENOBIO ASCENCIO has a

small clothing shop at Calle Allendo

Sr, ASCENCIO statod that he has

village called Dos Aguay enroy

-nu ascertained at Dos Aguas

that CARDENAS has a small tailor shop and is also a distrivutor of

Singer sewing machines in the aroa.

CECILIO CARDENAS was located at Rancho En Medio, Municipality

of Coalcoman, Michoacan,

and upon interview stated that he was born

in the Municipality of AgitAti Aguililla on 7/12/1933 being the

SOn of MARGARITO CARDENAS PRADO and MARIA INES CISNEROS. CECILIO

resides at Dos

four children.

agine "1 th his wife SOFIA GUIZAR do CARDENAS and

CECILIO CARDENAS stated catagorically that ho did not board any

bus in San Luis Potosi at any time in 1963 since hel not left that

area in Michoacan for a long time.

He did state that he was In the

United States several years ago but has now been living 17 Michoacan

for several years.

He also stated that he

has seen photographs of OSWALD in news-

papers but has nover seen such a person.

Sr. ELIAS GARIBAY of Uruapan, Micho,

District Manager of Singer Sewing Machine

confirmed that CARDENAS made no trips

SEARCHED -

__ INDEXED

SERIALIZED.. A FILED

JUN 1 S 1964

LEGAL ATTACH

to Monterrey,

N.Lo In 1963+

CLASS. & EXT. BY SPBIEKIRH/AHR

REASON-FCIM II, 1-2.4.21

2,3

DATE OF REVIEN 6-11184

CONFIDENTIA

105-3982-1146

DocId: 32161929

Page 2

---

