# docid-32333915

## Page 1

JFK' Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90108-10057

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3035-52

Released under the John

f. kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

KUYKENDALL

DL

DATE: 06/19/1967

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HT 53025

DocId: 32333915

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FORMATION CONT

IVED

ON

3/4/98

5668 S10/6CL

JFK'S

(9)

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED B

WING

SLIP

DArS

SAC, DALLASX(131-1A-2193)

6/10/67

SA BOVIN D. RUYKENDALL

CLAE

Far. 57.6383 URTles

REASON-FCIM

152-102

DATE OF-REVIEW

619-81

peal #9-017>

DL-6-8 on 5/25/67, erally advised SA EDMIN D.

KUYKENDALE that ROGER HOFFMAN at about 9:30 p.m.

evening telephoned JOE LANDIN and stated

that

Safeway

Stores

in Dallas located at Invood and Lovers Lane and at Preston

Royal Center would be picketed on the following two days

(friday and saturday) by supporters of "La Fuelga" which

"the strike."

HOFFMAN stated ED POlk, an attorney

in Dallas,

le planning to open an office to

support the

Rio Grande City, Texas.

NOFFIAN stated the piedets were to pass out

Ilterature asking persons not to buy waterolons on the

basis that employees crossed picket lines in order to get

watermelons to Dallas.

HOFFMAN wanted LANDIN to also

participate in the

picketing but LANDIN made no definite

commitment.

«(u)

HOPPIN furnished SO POLk's office address telephone

as

RI 1-4650,

Dallas.

ROFEMAN stated he has joined the

American Civil Liberties Union as of the previous night.

ED POLK, according

to informant, may be a member of ACLU.

ED POLK

represented HOPPLAN on a

recent DHI Court charge

in which HOFFMAN paid ^ $150 fine and was placed on six

montEs probation

Ho also was supposed to spend 30 days

so the county jail but his attorney got that part changed.

134-11-1135

100-10990 (R,

SES929 CATIONS TEN VORIES ASSOCIASSCN STERNSU

100-8001

(JO LANDIN)

100-11201

(VIDEL)

10020993

(SDS)

100-11300

(DCPSVN)

San

Antonio (B4) (100-

"NATIONAL FARM WORKENS ASSOCIATION

STRIKE, RIO GRANDE VALLEY)

62-3035-5

Classifted by

Exempt from

Data of Decl

Category 2

ication indelinite

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED.

-.FILED..

17 9 198

FBI - DALLAS

Rom portial

NING - N

(u)

HH

53025

DocId: 32333915

Page 2

---

## Page 3

D6X134-1A-1155

This is according-do

wint NOPYuAN Kas told LANDIN. *W

recently gone to Denton,

Texas,

trying to arrange

to North Texas State Unlversity

beginning in the fall, 1967.

DL -3-3 on 6/1/67,

orally advised SA EDNIN D.

FUYKENDALS that BOGER HOEFIAN on 5/31/07, contacted J0g

LANDIN and advised there was planned a peace retrent at Camp

Flanag Arrow bear Lunt,

Texas, on the weekend of 6/S - 4/07;

that sone of the nembers of the Dallas peace committee were

going but ho did not provide any names.

HOFITIAN stated he would not

be going to that altair as ho häd been designated as the one to

in charge of the Dallas peace vigil put on by DCPSVN on 6/3/67.

HOTTIAN also

told LANDIN

chat

the non

"Lo Huelga"

office which is the office of

Workors Association

strikers, has boen oponod and is located at Mc Kinney

and Lee Streets,

instructor, is in charge of that offico, but that Jolm

I MUID, Aden-

tity otheruiso unknow, in almys at that office ans is eno

who has been to Rio Crunde City concerning the farm workers

strike.

ACTION:

Sone.

JAT/3O300

177378

-: 2

74 53025

DooId:32333915 Page 3

---

