# docid-32305323

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10287-10453

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-339

Released under the John F.

kennedy assassination

Records

Follection Act oI

1992

144

USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NT

54027 Date: 08-28-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/07/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS, MEETING, TP

DASSIECATION: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Tit 54027 DocId: 32305323

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

TO

FR

SUBJECT

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 10A2 COITION

ORA FRUR (A CO. 10T-1i.A

UNITED STATES GC

• Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

, TAMPA (105-374) • (P)

HOVIMIENTO INSURRECTIONAL

HOCURERACO I REVOEENCTONARIA (WIRR)

'IS - CUBA

00: MIAMI

DATE: 4/7/67

Classified by EL BJA/sCL

Declassity.g: /DADR 9/50/85

ALS INFORMATION CONTAINED

IS UNCLASSIFIED

WIRE SHOWN

RWISE

HERENI

EXCESA

BY 5668

DECLASS

Re Tampa letter to Bureau, 12/30/66.

ontinued contact wita IP se-s and othe

'ampa sources has failed to reflect any organize

activity of captioned organization in the Tampa area.

On 1/28/67, several of the Anti-Castro

organizations in the

aroa met at the Caballeros de la

Luz Lodge, Nebraska and 9th Avenue, Tampa, to celebrate

me anniversary of the birth of doss waitt, Cuban

patriot. ENiQuE SOMEThIAN, Secretary General of MIRR

in Tampa, was present at this meeting. The sponsorg of

this celebration were all revoluntionary groups of

Cubans and Tampans opposed to the FIDEL CASTRO

Government.

On 3/6/67, TP 52-s advised that ENRIQUE

SOMEILLAN continues

to represent MIRR in Tampa, Florida.

Source advised that as in the past, the Tampa unit is

interested mainly in circulating propaganda advocating

the overthrow of FIDEL CASTRO and his government and the

11beration of Cuba.

He also advised that MIRR's

fundamental

objectives continue to be as follows:

1. Liberation of Cuba

2. Restoration of the Cuban Constitution of 1940.

3. The return of all Cubans to Cuba

4. The liberation of all Cuban political prisoners.

5. Work for the restoration of the laws and

2) Bureau (RM)

Miami (105-2855) (RM)

C 0 6436 8

3

97-4474-339

AIG: bp

Tampa (1yn)

COP8 17 967

Rid ca

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on she Payroll Savings Plan LATIN-AMiCAN

0070-101

HH 54027

DocId: 32305323 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SAAMOS

CONFRXNTIAL

TP 105-374

6. To abolish the laws of Communist Cuba.

relatively Inactiv?, Tp 225-s)dVied that MIRR 16

in Tampa at the present time:

The only thing known they are doing is raising funds.

This they are doing by selling at 82,00 each, raffle

tickets on a home supposedly valued at $10,000.

Details of the JOSE MARTI anniversary

celebration held at Tampa on 1/28/67, were furnished tr

the Bureau and Miami in LHM captioned, "ANTI-FIDE

CASTRO ACTIVITIES", dated 2/7/67.

No other activity of MIRR has been reported since

referenced letter.

LEAD

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

will continüe to follow activities of

captioned organization through logical sources and

furnish perttont information to Miant and the Bureau.

HH 54027 DocId:32305323 Page 3

---

