# docid-32153753

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10102-10025

RECORD_ SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-1639-426

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. CG

DIRECTOR. FBI

Released under the John

F

DATE: 11/28/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-110

10-12-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/13/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463 DocId: 32153753

Page 1

---

## Page 2

URGENT 11-2863

7-51 AM LJC

CONCERNAL

TO DIRECTOR, AND SACS, CINCINNATI, DALLAS AND LOS ANGELES

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 144-6450

2 PAGES

JACK L RUBY, AKA. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, ARA DASHEVICTIM.,

CIVIL RIGHTS:

RE DALLAS TEL AND CHICAGO TEL ELEVEN TUENTYSEVEN LAST.

RE ALLEGED COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES

RE UNSUB POSSIBLY JACK RUBENSTEIN, WHO ALLEGEDLY TRAVELLED

TO MUNCIE, INDIANA, IN COMPANY OF SON IN LAU OL SAM JARDEE IN

EARLY FORTIES ANB POSSIBLY IN NINETEEN FORTYSIX OR SPENS

SEYMOUR CHAZIN, ONE ZERO DIVE VEST ADAMS, CHICACO, INTERVIEWED

THIS: DATE BY SAS ROBERT A VILLEMURE AND AVERY DACUS AND ADVISED

HE IS A SON IN LAW OF SAM JAFFEE. CHAZIN STATED SUBJECT ACK

RUBENSTEIN UNKNOWN TO HIM AND THAT HE HAS NO KNOWLEDGE ANY CP

MEETINGS BEING HELD IN MUNCIE DURING FORTIES AND AMANO LINE EVER

ACCOMPANIED ANY GROUP FROM CHICAGO TO MENTING IN MUNSEE HE

SAID ONLY SON IN LAW OF JAFFEE WHO MAX HAVE BROUGHT ANGRUER FROM

CHICACO TO MUNCIE IS NOW LIVING LOS ANGELES THIS SON IN.

LAU-S PRESENT NAME IS TRUTA DEKE HOULVES BRONTSE PENTATO

BUSINESS AFFILIATIONS HE CHANGED HIS NAME FROM REFUSSE

ESTARS

CHICAGO INDICES ON IRWIN BERKESTEAD AND TRUIN BERKE

END PAGE ONE

3-11-93

CASIA 1S03 LOD ISN

Desianty on Ot

Clemention

CATION CONTAINE

HERLIN

IS L

SIFTED

5FK SPECIA/

OTKERWISE

(5668 510/GC

8/31/45 JFK

TH 511665665154De253 2/28/48-27K

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

FOLLOWING CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS ACTIVE IN CP IN THIRTIES

AND FOURTIES WERE EXHIBITED PHOTOS OF JACK RUBENSTEIN THIS DATE

AND ADVISED THIS INDIVIDUAL UNKNOWN TO THEM AS ACTIVE IN CPo•

CG FIVE SIX ZERO NINE DASH SACG GIVE NINE ZERO EIGHT DASHS

ECG FIVE EIGHT NINE ZERO DASH SECG FIVE SEVEN NINE ZERO DASH S,

FORMER CE FIVE/NINE ONE TWO DASH S, FORMER CE FIVE THREE SEVEN (U)

THREE DASH SO

LOS ANGELES HANDLE INTERVIEW OF BERKE AS REQUESTED IN RE

CHICAGO TEL.

THIS COMPLETES CHICAGO PHASE OF INVESTIGATION TO IDENTIFY

AND INTERVIEW. SONS

IN LAW OF SAM

, JAFFEE.

FOR INFO CINCINNATI, CHICAGO HAS IDENTIFIED ALL THREE SONS

IN LAW OF JAFFEE.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 8-58 PM XXXAM OK FBI WA

CI

8-57 AM OK FBI CI GDM

7-57 AM OK FBI DL EEA

LA

MLNB 8043.

RM'

POOR IPPA

HH 54463 DocId: 32153753 Page 3

---

