# docid-32288838

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10114

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1418

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/07/1963

2

THP, ACT, ADMIN, PHOTO COPY OF A BOOK ENTITLED "X

MARKS THE SPOT"

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/05/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

INW 45760

15

DocId: 32288838

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC, Los Angeles (92-738)

"REG- 10%

Director, FBI

62-4-9-1418

ACTIVITISS OF TOP HOODLUMS

IN THE CHICACO AREA

11/19/63

Reurmeno 11/7/63.

The book submitted by you entitled "y Harks the

Spot," has been reviewed and discloses interesting historical

infornation relating to gang activities in the Chicago area.

This naterial is being placed in the Bureau's files as a

There is no infornation

available indicating that this material is of unique value

other than for historical infozzation and, in view of this,

it will not be necessary to submit additional copies to the

Buxeau.

1 - Chicago

NOTE: LA submitted a photographic copy of a book entitled

"X Marks the Spot," copywrited 1930 by the Spot Publishing

Company. (A PCI gained possession of a copy of this material

through

a relative,

who in turn obtained it from a Chicago

friend connected with the rackets.

This story was supposedly

written in 1930 by a reporter who allegedly was killed after

being warned by the mob to discontinue publication.

were reportedly printed before the author's death.

Six copies

This book contains considerable detail as to the

histows of racketeering in Chicago, dating back to the pro tee

days and is being placed in file for reference purposes.

material has limited interest inasmuch as material dates

33 years and there is no indication that it possesses

ang

unique value or is in any way a rare document.

Destroyed 411172092a3

IGZ: TaP las

(5)

Calet 7/ 777

MAILED 25 Miy

ALQK1 9 1965

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trottér

Tole. Roor

--Holmes

Gand DDi

Dr C

HAIL ROO!

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45760 DocId: 32288838

Page

---

## Page 3

¿TUNAL PORM 'NG. 20

UNITED STATES

-VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-738)

SUBJLC

ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS

IN THE CHICAGO AREA

DATE: 11/7/63

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau and for Chicago

is one photographic copy each of a book entitled "X Marks

The Spot," copyrighted 1930 by The Spot Publishing Company.

These copies

were made in this office from a

photo copy provided by PCI C

→ and were enlarged

I times to make the print more readable. According to the

who is connected with the rackets.

The story told to PCI

just six copies were printed before the author, who had been

instructed by the mob to desist, was murdered.

The copy.

which PCI's

relative had photographed before returning 1t

is supposed

to be one of the original six.

Indices of this office contain no prior reference

to "X Marks The Spot" and it is not Inown 1f this document is

in fact, rare. Negatives of the pages are being retained

pending advice from the Bureau and Chicago as to whether or

not there is any value for research or other purpose.

cost of reproduction accounts for the limited number of

copies.

More will be made, of course, if the Bureau and

Chicago believe there is unique value, and will advise as

to handling desired.

2

2

2

Bureau

Enc.

(92-350)

Los Angeles

• (Enc.. 1)

(92-738)

(1 - 137-2622)

FHT : meh

(6)

80T -038

62-9-9-1418

• 11733

OTHER 4

ENCLOSURE ON BULKY RAMP

fit LA

11-19-65

NW 45760 DocId: 32288838

Page 3

---

