# docid-32338707

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10125

HQ

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/04/1941

'PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338707

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

PREL

BENFRENTEAL

FEDERAL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIRD

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGLES, CALIFORNIA HE MIRE SHONS

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE V

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

10-4-41

8/27-10/4/41

TITLE

FILE NO.

100-6768

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS E. WRAS

CHARACTER OF CASE

-GUS

HERBERT BIBERHAD

LIVERNAL SBOURITY - R

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

EDNARD CARTAR departod fOE Naw YOrK City 9036:411

subjeot went to Hollywood Beach. On 1-29-41 BIBERMAN TO.

turned and innediately conferrad wiül JANs MRAL. who indl-

cated diffleulties had arisen in perfecting organiantion of

COMMITTEE FOR NEDICAL AID TO RUSSIA. Subject adviced MEAD

to communtoato with CARTER 12 New York, roguesting his re-

tura to help out with situatlon; CARTER will again como to

Los Angeles woe of letober 6 to 1l, 1941. subject ond

MEADE arranging funotiona at shion CARTER "1l1 further at.

tompt "to sell" projost of Russian ald, will concentrate on

developing cooperation in Los Angolos, Santo Barbara, and

San Diego:

Doteile of plane sot out.

MEADE tontativoly

Identified as underground namber Commustet Perus rather

bellered retired Ileutenant-commander, U.SoRa Contacts of

aubject with JOHN HONARD LAWSON on 9-29-41 and 10-1-41 noted

Results of mail covers on LAWSON and BIBERMAN set out. Ad-

ditional bank acoount of subjeot and wife rofleess 5.000

balance. Purchase of dairy farn by subjeet's wife noted.

subjeet's obeoking account zon 8-15-41 to 0-10-41 rorlecte

apparently

nosnel activitsubjoct identifted as aoquainted L

with Soviet COnsul NIKOLAI BELOV, VLADDOR gUSPENSIT, and

GREGORY I, IRSKY, knowa soviet officiale. an 9-30-4l Tou LA

uncan contacted subject relative madd noting sponsored t

MERICAN COUNCIL ON SOVIET RELATIONS. MOtiVitos of TICH

FOR FRENDON group indioated.

Maturfty of confidontial plan

499 -

Clasalied

Declassky en: OARR

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

094166 T WATE MTHESE SPACES

100370750-

a Bureau

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

& - New York

2 - Los Angeles

SECRE COUTA

NOT N2020T

€ 1020

CITRRNHONT PRENYING 77P98R

7-2034

NW 54460 DooId:32338707 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTAL

into action along the dosired tines.

It will be noted further that the

basio plan for his activities is in line with the plan of his prior visit.

namely a luncheon sponsored by outstanding porsons is to be given, at

which CARTER will have an opportunity to make an address, as he did when

previously 1n Los Angeles. Arrangements are proceding in the Los Angeles

Divialon to insure appropriate coverage of CARTER'S arrival and events

transpiring while he is here. The Now York Flola Division has been reo

quested by teletype to place CARTER under such appropriate close survell-

lance as v1l1 disclose his activities, connections, and time of depar

With reference to the Individuals mentioned in the tele.

gran fron CARTER above cited, it is interesting to note that immediately

following his conference with MRADE, subject endeavored to get in touch

with Senator ROBERT W. KENNY, but on inquiry learned that Senator KENVY

would be out of town for several weeks. It 1s noted that Senator KENNY

1s a prominent political personage, being a State Senator of California

and frequently mentioned as a possible candidate for the governorship of

the state.

It was from the office of senator KENNY, via MaURIce COHen,

as noted in the writer's report dated September 20, 1941, that BIBERMAN

obtained a

partial list of possible sponsors for the Russian Rellef Pro-

jeoto

will be recalled that roference report oites a suggestion

by BIBERWAN

That

JANE MEADE was the daughter of a Commander in the United

States Navy, which faet he considered important baokground for the use of

MEADE In the office of Russian War Relief. Collateral inguiries concerning

JANI MEADE have disclosed that she resides at 11168 Moorpark St., North

Hollywood, Califo, telephone sunset 23003. This tolephone is listed to

KURT NEUMANN, with whon MADE has been ia contact, as noted in reference

report, under such oircumstances as to warrant the statement that MEADE'S

true name 1s Mrs. KURT NEUMANN. However, it 1s noted that a 1940 Chevrolet

coupe, California license #59B-467 has been frequently observed in the

vicinity of BIBERMAN'S home, and this car is registered to JANE LAWSON MEADE

of 1154 North Formosa Street, Hollywood. The car also was observed parked

in the driveway of DIMITRI TIOLKIN'S home on the occasion'of a luncheon

meeting which 1s known to have been attended by JANE MEADE (NEUMANN), aB

rocorded in the uriter's report in this case dated sept. 20.

This woman

1s regularly and almays referred to by subject and his associates as JANE

MEADE, and accordingly for purposes of clarity and consistency, she will

to the referred to here and in been came me to can .

Confidential National Defense Informant los Angeles No.

1060, whose identity le known to the Bureau, has advised the writer

that in connection with his other Inquirles he has observed MEADE to

bo ta charge of the offico of the COMMITTEN fOR MEDICAL AID IO RUSSIA,

located at 8633 Sunset Boulevard. This informant stated that thie fact

caused him immediately to associate the Medical Aid to Fussia Project

SEUTE

CONF DENTAL

00183-101-570

NW 54460 DooId:32338707 Page 3

---

