# docid-32198668

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

IN ASSASSINAL UN DYDI LIVI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

RECORD_NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10271-10009

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-189

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ.

TO: AG

TITLE:

DATE: 05/20/1975

PAGES: 49

SUBJECT:

CC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

'STATUS

11/06/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

INC MEMO, RPT, LET, LHM, NOTE

DocId: 32198668 Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 774 050

210

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hote).

2 - Legal Counsel Division

(1-Mr. J. B. Hotle)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W.O. Cregar

May 20. 1975

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTER

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

ALL INFORMATION COWLANES

HEROIN 3620

CATE 422/93 1546850 ma

OFE)

sew 18

Reference is made to my letter of April 10, 1975, wherein a:

paper entitled "Intelligence Division Position Paper on Jurisdiction,"

dated February 13, 1975, was enclosed for the Committee.

Exhibits I, J, K, M, and P were extracted trom the Committee! &

copy of the paper due to Third Agency Rule considerations. These have since

been resolved. The original of an LHM with these exhibits is enclosed for

your approval and forwarding to the Committee. A copy of the LHM is als0

enclosed for your records.

A complete copy of the paper was furnished to you by letter

dated April 14, 1975.

Consideration is being given to downgrading or declassifying

certain exhibits. This is being coordinated with appropriate agencies.

Enclosures -

• 7

RES

62/1639

18teh ere ato Def

62-116305

ALL Vb(7)

NOTE:

ENCLOSURE

17 JUN 5 1975

albrove da. d

returned: /27

to Communa

Clearance for documents from White House, UC, and ICIS reflected of KI

Assoc. Dir.

in memoranda Wannall to Legal Counsel,

• U.S. Senate Select Committee

Dep. AD Adm = Material, Authorization to Release Exhibits in Intelligence Division Position

Asst. Dir.:

Paper on Jurisdiction, '" dated 4/7/75, and Flemister to Wannall, Clearance

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

of Certain Documents Prepared By the Interdepartmental Intelligence Conference

Ext. Affairs

(IC) For Release to the Senate Select Committee, dated 5/12/75

Files. 8 Com.

Gen. Inv. _

WWX: SO

30 XN 1812

Ident.

Inspection -

Intell.

Laboratory

DS0022A0514.

Plan. & Evol. _

Spec. Inv. -

Training:

Legal Coun.

TOP SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHE

ROUTE IN INVELOPE

Telephone Rm.

GPO.

Ding A JUN 5 MA19/00M

TELETYPE UNIT L

DocId: 32198668

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

APP SEC

COPY NO. 2

JULY I, 1960, ROUGH JUNE 30, 1961

? TO

17223

S2008 0002227

28.

4/2498

CLASSiFIED BY 5668-50/nd

DECLASSIPY ON: 25X

JFK

PREPARED BY THE

INTERDEPARTHENTAL INTELLIGENCE CONTORENCE

JULY 25, 1961

DocId: 32198668

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

TOP

SECRET

STATUS OF U.S. INTERNAL SECURITY PROGRLS

BACKGRCUND DE INARROEPARTNONTAL

INPELLISEICE COTERENCE (TIC)

The IIC was established on June 26, 1939, by a

Prosidential Directive wich charged the Directors

of the

rederal Bureau of Investination, ine Military Intelligence

Division of the War Depariment, and the Ofiice of Naval

Intelligence of the Navy Department with functioning as

a commiitee to coordinate ihe investigation of all espionage.

counterespionage, and sabotage matters.

subsequent dircciives

were issued. the

latest on July 24s 1950, providing inat inc

FBI should take charge of investigative work in marters relating

to espionage, sabotage, and subversive activities.

On July 18, 1949, the Nationai Security Councii

granted a charter to

the Ill authorizing and dircoting

IIC to effect the coordination of all investigacion oi

domestic espionage, counterespionage, sabotage and subversion,

and other relaied intelligence matiers ailecting

internal

security.

Ild membership was retained intact with the

addition of the Director of Special investigations of the

Depariment of the Air force, which department had been created

since the issuance of

the original Fresidentiai Directive.

IIC has functioned under inis charier as an internal security

adviser to the

National Security Council concerning matters

within its field of responsibiliiy.

In order to clarify the responsibilities of each of

the IIC members, an Agreement delimiting these has boen entered

Into by the members.

this has been amended from tine to time

to take changing circumstances into account.

The Acreement

provides for the ires exchange among the members of ail.

information of mutuai interest. ina FBI is responsible for the

investigation of all espionare, counterespionage, subversion,

and sabotage involving civilians and forcign nationais in

Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the entire United Siates:

with the exception of certain arcas of Alaska wich are

the Naval and Air Force members.

Each

of the military menbers is responsible for the investigation of

= 1.

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32198668

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

to other potentially dangerous persons locatod in civilian areas

within the investigative responsibility of the military services.

As an example, the dir rorce has a pregram under which background

investigations are conducted en all dir Force nilitary personnoi

on active duty and appiicants for enlistment or appointment who

are. either aliens or .s. Citizens with connections in

communist-controlied countries.

To date aimost all such active

duty Air Force military personnel have been identified and

investigated under this program.

During the past year this

program has been estended is include Cuba as one of the

communist controlled countries.

Consideration is being given to expanding this program

to include reserves who are not on active duty and the Air National

Guard. Individuals in the Air National Guard

and those reserves

who have mobilization assignments and are considered as ready

reservists would be investigated under this program.

Office of Special Investigations FBI joint counter-

intelligence coverage of Strategio dir Colmand missile and

manned combat elements now includes 68 Sirarogic Air Command

bases and 12 missile sites.

This coverage includes Patrick

Air Force Base and the Air Force Missile Pest Conter at

Cape Canaveral, Florida, Coverage of new installations

is

initiated severai months prior to the time the installacion is

scheduled to becone operational.

As a further example, the military services have

parallel programs which also inciude a special briefing of

personnel who may be subject to nostage pressure through threats

of harm to reiatives in communist countries.

II.

INTENS INTED COVERAGE CE SOUTET RICE OFFICIAIS

IN TITE UN

FOREICA TNRELERDESEE DEERATONS CLARES COUNTRY

A. Number of officials in the United States

There are in this country (1,605) soviet and satollite(S]

aiplomatic and oilicial personnel, inciuding their acpendents.

Of this total, 654 are oificials and dipionats and 95t are LS.

TOP SECRET

DocId: 32198668 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

TOP SECRET

dependents.

Of the total number, 849 of the individuals are CS

Soviet officials, dipiomats,

and

lependents.

sovict diplomatic

and official personnel alone total 306. (5]

It should be noted that the total number of such

personnel and their dependents has increased yearly since

1951.

In that year there were g5isoviet bioc ofticials, diplonats, [S

and dependents in anis country.

The figure of 1,605 represents (S

an increase of (250 since Jüly 1, 1960. (S)

The FBI has continued its special program of intensifica

overage of soviet bioc olicials in this country and since 195

as idenified 593 Sovie biro officials as either being or CS.

the as suspectea de being engaged in intailinence activities

1961{5]

number of individuals engaged in sucn activity points up the

Intense soviet bloo effort directed against tha United States.

and represents over Eventy-neper cent of all Soviet bloc C5

officials in the United States.

Bo Soviet Bloc Intellicence Tardets

soviet bloc intelligence targets include military,

scientific, political, economic, and technical data, both

classified and unclassiiled.

soviet bise inrelligence personnel

nave been aggressive in their widespread intollidence collection

activities.

They have nor hesitated to artempt to develos and

subvert U.S. citizens.

the effort, ef the soviet blee intelligence

services is coordinated and guided by the Sovies.

The satellite

intelligence services have been developed according to the

Soviet pattern, their key personnel have been sejected and trained

by the soviets, and the soviets have access to all data obtained

by the satellites.

C. Public Source Data

soviet bloc intelligence agents have taken full

advantage of public sources oi

infernation, both in Government

and industry.

information has been cullceted threugh the

purchas of readily avaliable publications, both from Government

and private industry, and by attendance at sciontiric and

technical conventions, contrrences, and exhibits which are

frequently conducted by industry in this country. As an example

DocId: 32198668 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

P SECRET

a male and female who were born in the United States between 1930

and 1935 and had since left the United States and had not returned.

It is obvious that the sovict was attempting to establish suitable

identification and background data to lacilitate the entry and

operation of soviet illegal agents

sent to the United Staies.

A Soviet Counselor at the United Nations took a

dotailed tour of the Depariment of llealth, New york cliy,

in Ociober, 1950. lie evicenced extreme interest in the nandling

of birth, death, and marriage, certiticates by dew york Clay

authorizes. During the tour, he was interested in coralding

samples of the forms used for the registration of births, deaths

and marriages.

This is another case of an atienpt to secure

documents which can be used to establish identification for

individuals sent to the United States as iliegal agents.

F. Miscellaneous Operations

A Soviet Assistant Naval

Attache has used a source (5]

of the rbi to conduct numerous espionage assignments for the

Soviets.

For example, during February, 1961.

The source to cal mous on the sundo uto mades

U.S. geological survey maos oi fifteen U.s. cities.

sourcels

turned over the reouested mans alter the mads nad been cleareo

DY Cs

appropriate Government agencies tor transmittal to the soviets.

He was then instructed to obtain maps of treive other U.S. cities.

Also in February, a Czechoslovakian Embassy officials

instrucied a source oi the FBi to obiain telosione directories

of the Defense Depariment, the United States Incoration Agency,

and the International Cooperation Administration.

lo iurther it

efforis to penetrate the United States Government, therCzech les

ofticial also suggested that the source seek employment with

the State Department and SIA.

A Soviet Attache during Narch, 1961, requested that

another source of the FBI obtain a report of

the licuse

Appropriations Conmittee, U.S, Congress, which dealt with the

appropriation of money for the inspection of U.S. Inbassies

throughout the world to detect wire tapping and concealed

microphones.

Again in March, 1961, an employce of the Soviet

Embassy was

in contact with another MBI source.. He offered the

source five hundred dollars it the source would obtain tio

classifiod U.s. Army manuals for him.

ROP SECrET

DocId: 32198668

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection.Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TOP. SECRET

•Go Reconnaissance Trips!

In addition to the attempted use of U.S. citizens as

sources of information and as agents, soviet bloc personnel

have traveled exiensively throughout

the U.S.

isan ailustration,

in March, 195ly to Soviet Assistant Air Attaches made arS-

reconnaissance through tne States of Texas, New Mexico.

Jiah, and diazone.

at tone one coma sion tria at rand tinction, est

Colorado, and in various Air force bases in colorado.

observed taking motion piciures froma site on Franklin MountainLs

overlooking El raso, Texas.: From this point. they were able

to observe the El laso, Texas, and Juarez, Mexico, area which

contains a portion o1 Fort Bliss and Biggs Air Force Base,

In addition to making trips themselves, Soviet bloc

officials have requested sources of the FBi to make such trips.

OnCarch 23, 19o1 an officzal of the Soviet Embassy requestedLS

that a source of the FBI make an espionage reconnaissance trip

to New London, Connecticut, and obtain data concerning thels

New London. The source was instrucied tees.

peak with sailors in taverns and to take a tour of the (s

(submarine base. (S]

I.. Technical Data and Enuipment

The Soviets have also utilized the Amtorg Trading

Corporation, New York City, to obtain information and equlomeni.

In April, 1951 an official of the amtora Tradina Corporacion Es

requested thai an FBI source purchaselien thousand dollars (SJ

worthlof electronic equipment.

The Amtorg official specifically

instructed the source not to obtain an export liconse for such

equipment but instead to bring it directly to intorg.

It is

probable that the soviets contemplated shipping such

equipment

to Russia by diplomatic pouch, thereby circumventing United States

As an example of soviet interest in technical data

available in the United States, an official of the Soviet

Embassy has contacied

over one

hundred U.S. corporations

for

information regarcing their products.

lle has joined two

technical societies and has subscribed to fourteen technical

publications.

ile has shown particuiar interest in sicel,

glass, plastics, cloctronics, and automobile manufacturers.

I. Use of Hostane Situntions

The sovict bloc has not hesitated to prey upon the

fears of U.S. residents with relatives behind the Iron Curtain

-7-

raP sEcKET

DocId: 32198668

Page 8

---

