# docid-32331194

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90096-10140

HQ

92-2989-179

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 05/24/1963

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v01

DocId: 32331194

24

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John'T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE:

A lead was previously set out to identify

AL RITTER (PH) and Interview him to determine if he

1s connected with the subject in any manner.

To

date the NYO has been unable to identify him.

further attempts will be made to Identify this person.

NY Telephone Company information was made

available by EDWARD L. BRAUNE, Security Supervisor,

NY Telephone Company, NYC.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

Contacting Agent

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

Detective JIM POULOS

NY County DAO, NYC

(By request)

NY I-2

SA ARTHUR P. DUFFY

NY 99-0

NY I-3

NY 3386-C-TE

SAS EDWARD P. HARTNETT and

JOHN D. SWIFT

LEADS:

NEWARK (INFO)

At Newark, New Jersey

one copy of this report is being sent to

the Newark office because TOURINE has various assodiates

Also because different NJ residents' names

appeared in because as re NICHOLAS MORESE, suoject's

tailor in NYC.

-B-

COVER PAGE

100d01si10

DocId: 32331194 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hoteja

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-851

MEYER and JAKE LANSKY

"YIDDIE BLOOM" (PH)

IRVING LEVITT (PH)

"FAT" COHEN

BARNEY (LNU)

The LANSKY interest owned and possibly still

own the Monacco Hotel about 176th Street in Miami

Beach; however, they are reportedly disposing of

their interest in this hotel in view of their interest

in the Singapore Motel.

The "Mob" reportedly has been trying to get

a license to operate a dog track to be run at night at

Tropical Park or Gulfstream Race Track.

(First Name

Unknown) COWARD, who ran for Governor of Florida was

•Is tryin

on behalf of the

, to get the dog track license

owner of Baggiano's Bar in Greenwich

Village, has a license for the dog tracke in Palm Reach,

FlorIda, "Mob".

is working with COWARD to get the license

for the

III. ASSOCIATES

April 10, 1963, NY 99-C advised that

CHARLIE

"THE BLADE" TOURINE, along with othersin

Miami, had flown back to New York to pay their respects

at the wake of CARMINE LOMBARDOZZI's father.

The

informant has heard that they visited the funeral

parlor after the regular visiting hours.

doodp-101t0.

DocId: 32331194

Page

---

