# docid-32248883

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10080-10441

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

010376

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

FBI

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 08/02/1978

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FBI ADMINISTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

190-1. Box 190.

V9.1

HH 50529

DocId: 32248883

Page

1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

010376

DATE 8/2/78

TIME 11:00 a

I.

Identifying Information:

Name Al Chestoné

Address61 Whitcliff Ave; Westwood, New Jersey

Type of Contact:

& Telephone

Person

Telephone : (201) 664-5267

II.:

Summary of Contact:

Pursuant to Merita Lorenz allegations concerning a photograph she

claims to have given Chestone depicting Oswald, Lorenz, Hemming & and Sturgis

at a training camp in Florida, Chestone was called to ascertain the truth of these

statements.

Chestone was formally with the F.B.I in New York. As part of his duties he kept

certain Söviets and Soviet block individuals under surveillance. Lou Yvarsits,

Merita's husband from approximately 1970-1975, was the building manager of

the Newbercy apts., 250 E. 88th Street in New York. This apartment building was

the residence for many of these Soviets connected with the U.N. delegation.

Chestone used lou Yvarsits as an informant as to any out of the ordinary habits

of these soviets that Yvarsits noticed during his routine duties. Chestone met

with Yvarsits in his apatrment on a weekly basis, AIso present during these meetings

was Merita, who attempted to Interject herself into the converstaions. while

Chestone repeatedly explained to Merita his business was with her husband lou;

she nevertheless persisted in "playing spy" even to the extent of going through

the nightly trash and giving Chestone whatever she felt was of interest.

"III..

Recommended Follow-up (if any):

WW 50529 DocId:02218883

83- Pa

BLACKmOR

---

## Page 3

:.

Chestone stated at no time was Merita an "operative" for the F.B.I. as she had

stated, nor was she a source or an informant.

During the time Chestone knew Lou and Merita, she never once mentioned

Lee Harvey Oswald, although in 1976, after Chestone had retired, Merita called him

and asked

if he remembered receiving a photograph from her wherein Oswald

appeared. Chestone told her she was mistaken, then inquired as to what she was

referring to concernong Oswald.

Chestone believes Merita to be a

sweet but pathetic person, seeking to enlarge her

role in life by constantly seeking publicity. He also characterizes her a

person given to fantasy and lies.

Chestone recalls Merita leff her husband Lou and moved into an apartment with

Peno Fagiane, a mob hit man or enforcer. Chestone believes this is the only real

conatct Merita has ever had with anyone remotely connected with organized crime

contrary: to her statments

over the years. -

Merita mentioned also having worked with John Cotter as an FBI informer.

Chestone explained that Cotter took over when Chestone retired and used

Yvarsits as his contact for watching the Soviets at the Newberry building.

Chestone feels that Cotter was well aware of the imagination of Merita and would not

have used her in any capacity.

With respect to Merita's allegation concerning her work with the CIA,

Chestone believes this would have come up on a background check made

when he was using Yvarsits as an informer; it did not appear. Merita was connected.

With regard to JFK exhibit #124, a letter of thanks from the FBI to Merita,

Mrs. Louis Yvarsits, Chestone explained this was meant for Lou, but he requested

it be sent

to Merita to make her feel she was part of the patriotic duties

performed by her husband.

In summary Chestone feels Merita has completely exaggerated her role with the

5052?Bosht 12487hiteqye nt being truthful about the word nings Oswald photograph.

---

