# docid-32324357

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90026-10091

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-6329-191

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection

Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 45805 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/28/1964

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

FREEMONT HOTEL

HARRY HALL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

14T 45805

DocId: 32324357

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GO ERNMENT

• Memoransum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6392

NY, LU, L BATE:

FROM

SUBJECT:

7/28/64

S

REVIEWED EY FIFK TASK FORCE

FREMONE HOTEL

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

6/22/88 dal

I RELEASE Mi FOLL

(00 :LV)

EX RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

•Re report of SA ROBERT M. JACKSON dated 7/2/64

at Las Vegas. It is to be noted in referenced report

a lead was set forth to the Las Vegas Office requesting

details of investigation concerning CYE KRONFELD.

On 7/10/64, a meeting was held in the office of

USA HENRY MORGENTHAU, SDNY, where in attendance were SA M.

SONTAG, IRS, Intelligence Division, WALTER PALMER, US

Post Office; ANDY MC EVOY, AUSA, SDNY, S. MOLLO, AUSA,

SDNY, USA MORGENTHAU and SA JAMES T. MC SHANE, NYO.

This

meeting was called at the specific request of

MORGENTHAU and he indicated that he wished to have a Bureau:

agent present during the meeting. the meeting concerned

itself with the operation of

Cye the Shirtmaker,

which is

located at 37 West 57th Streets NYC.M, Oye the Shirtmaker

is owned and operated by one CYE KRONFELD, a long

associate of known gamblers throusnout the us.

KRONFELD

is a white male, approximate age 70, and is well known

in the theatrical business because of his dealings in

the manufacture of custom made shirts.

SA M. SONTAG advised that/

JFK Law (a)

30

made foR

HECA

2/22/78

Bureau

I- Las Vegas (92-739)

(1-92-698) (Info)

PEG 6692-63241

1- Los Angeles (92-1162) (Info)

201-X3

1- Newark (92-1254) (Info)

3- New York

10 Mt 29, 1964

(1- 92-2442)

(1- 92-new) (CYE KRONFELD)

JIM:pgh

(9)

61 AUG 1 1 1964

- 39

ev

91

HW 45805 DocId: 32324357 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ry.

• NY 92-739

JEK Law 11(a)

WALTER PALMER, a representative of the USPO,

advised that his office still maintained a mail

cover on all mail received by KRONFELD at Cye the

Shirtmaker and had determined that KRONFELD was still

in receipt of packages of shirts being mailed throughout the

country by known gamblers to KRONFELD.

PALMER stated

that his sources indicate that the/shirts received by Cye

the Shirtmaker from known gamblers, are encoded by the

use of thread drawn though various positions on the

shirts.

The PO Department has attempted to break this

code with negative results.

PALMER stated that although

he can account for many packages received by this

- 2 -

305 881329-191

1la

HW 45805 DocId:32324357 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-739

He also stated that Cye is utilized to transfer money from

one place to another, andthat when a gambler wishes to

transfer money, he places an order for a shirt with Cye

and leaves the money there, which Cye either delivers or

ships when he ships the order for shirts.

It is noted that in April and July, 1964,

NY 4008-C-TE advised that Cye the Shirtmaker, 37 West

57th St., was utilized as an establishment for the receipt

of skimmed funds from Las

Vegas.

USA MORGENTHAU has indicated that he will not

proceed with any arrest of lthe Reed-Courtney Syndicate

until the FBI has ample opportunity to conduct a close and

intensive investigation of the operation of Cye the Shirtmaker.

He explained that COURTNEY is presently in the Riviera

in France and he expects COURTNEY knows he would be

arrested if he returned to NYC. USA MORGENTHAU indicated

that the FBI would be in a better position than the

other agencies to develop information concerning the

activities at this establishment. At the present time,

the NYO has established a PCI in the building of 37

West 57th St. and is currently using this PCI to develop

a highly confidential source. All interested offices

will be advised of the results of this investigation.

5

22R5p-1028

14 45805

DocId: 32324357

Page 4

---

