# docid-32297103

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

124-10218-10379

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-11TH NR 53

-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, MM

TITLE:

DATE: 12/23/1959

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

2

PDL, GARCEY, ALAN WAYNE, ASSOC, PLAN, COUNTERFEIT

MONEY, CUBA, TRAP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297103

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under, the John T. kennedy. As

DATE: 11-Y4-2017

ection Act

992(44 USC 2107 Hotel.

256:

Decodber

Asztel

Tos

Fron:

8A0o • H0a1

ALAN WAYNE O ABCEX

TSOSOUNARION 109

- G020

DECLASSIE

OADE

ATI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIGSSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Klani

should be slost

na lag

to fact shat astjoe.

* De heyos has becn in

contact with the Cuban

Babassy

at Hashington,

"apparently rofers

mas turnonss intornation

Fles to to chan anitatus e

•Close contant chould be maintained sith Dias Lans in

• that

you vid

in this matter.

be Lendlately avare of his decisien

add 0500g

you sbould bo alert to

posalbility that Randolfo Cossio,

016)

Cuban Alr Attacheg

Mont; Floriday

over the

handling of subjeot

Man, and you should closely

11/98

follow subjeetes activitiea

this mattor 1s resolved.

Koen Bureau advisod of

pertinent developments

and Subalt

all

• intormation

fore

developel

surtable

Lor

dissonination.

(The)

1 = N70 (105 33280)

- 105-79913 (Angel L. Saavedra)

- 105-72630 (Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz)

= 97-3860 (Randolfo Cossio)

FEJ fag:sbs

(8)

NOT RECORDED

TabLew: 3071959

DUPLICATE

DEC 2 3 1859

MAILED

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz,

Cuban Air force

former chief of the

on 12-15-59 advised Miami that subject at

Cuban Military

the diraction of Captain inad contacted hia 12-14-59 fo

Attache, Washington, Da plan thieh called for Diaz bans

of presenting

other anti-Castro leaders to accept and distribute

Cuban counterfeit money with view toward destroying balance

of Cuban economy. Diaz Lanz advised plan is trap by which

it could be charged that U.S. had instigated plot to finan

cially injure Cuba. According to Diaz Lana, subject told

JÀN 5 1960

NOTE CONTINUED ON PAGE 2

DocId: 32297103 Page 2

---

