# docid-32335492

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 97-3224-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/23/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN ELMER KIEFFER

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32335492

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinätion Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

"DATE: 11-14-2017

DERS

(306-58603)

18/30/62

869, 570

(Stm91S)

(C)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMASIOVE

I BETRO

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PERCIAL IS UNCLASSIFIE

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

KP 5-18-98

manuel

Fuego

DATES - 23-9631.57685C0/ISR

SLDIKSR

BONDOL

8/34/62.

JFK)

60-11-9

16P2m

Regastration Section,

sosurity

Division,

custaoo, made

a98z1001 00 54 doubt

correspondened

cover lag

subjecte roenat

contases vita the

Registration

Section+

following Into ves obtained

conceapondence furnishad

by Erg.

AGGressed

* lotter fron the Registration Bection

6/38/62,

to Colonel

J010 E. KIEFERR,

14548

thovy: Chase

Boulevard,

Chovy Chase,

Maryland, referrod to

telephante

roguest made by KI30U0k en that date and enclosed forne for

his use

3e Liling a registration statemont

under

• the provisions

0t tho

horage Agents Bogiatzation

amended in

connection with his acsivitios on

• Bohol &

cuban greap,

(not

further ideutitted).

senorantos of * falophons call

dated 8/6/63

Sollowing ia101

Tha

tolephono oall zofarved

• #0

apparently

• tool: place

Botroen

Colonel

NARKAL D.

the Registzation

Coction+

Lese said be had

Sonoehat of

concerning

i Departsental

regations.

vergiening

paobion

He had

& 20cling

that he

should rogister with the dopartuent

• bat was

Dot

Sure

that it

cos rogatred.

Be said be maa

going to vort

1250

avisor and

consultant te Enited Organizattoos

For the

Liberution of Cabe,

a Floride organtaatton,

LEETTER sould sorve as a

adrisor to

Krocutavo Locrotam and

- 00

os his work would

be cane

atside on the usated statoo.

KHERDER Dould

not be ranting

on 3 dofinito enlars out os s

foe

basis:

• has

no Fritten

agroomaat with the organiaction and bas no supporting documonte.

contoet vith

the Regiotration

Section and

indosted that he and recotred

costale

tors

2p00

tho Nogistration Bostion,

0- 91-9284)

(4 - 57-72)

(hagat, Moxico)

296-86021)

MN306.

1 * Miaos (91-130) (15)

3 — 15O

9 = 97-161442-3224-

(1 - 10€ 308 NOT RECORDED

009: 1am

172 NOV 26 1962

(10)

ORIGINAL

, FILED IN

/..

DocId: 32335492

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

• Kennedy Assassination

DATE: 11-14-2017

Records

Collection Act of 1992 144

2107 Note).

WED 07:916

that he tho

organiancios tas registered

taought at shoold be,

1084

Chat A2

above

80 90%

ho

A2. LeaVid told Biness?

send ban

form deA to facilltate has

regiotzation

ladicatod Chot ho sould chock with the augantzation and

800

that they regiotor right away.

10 nas seted la too sonorandas

CHAS HARTO CARCEA

sons was molected as hoad

of She

organiestion.

Toe tho doto of cho

although

He LARYSE

Sodiented

that bo thought a0BLt'e erganization

stonid be

rogistored Nis nano reflected

0a028 for

Coptersor

1008,

REVILE,

hanger,

rafont Girele Building, 1300 Connocticut

Avonce, M.

that koberts moved

of the busiding about

$2x80

yoars ago for the purpose of

@pening & shop in thn 90sth00d Shosping Con ter,

River Road,

tetbeads,

Baryland,

IRVIM know

Bothins of BIBEF*s preseat

0061 V10100

nourass to prestowly furniched

Past notivities on the pure of Ratio

• GANGIA KOLE

on zerolled by provous astonesse

savestigation os haa

terisis fadioate $hat ho has attempted

to gain apport

nad popalanity anong importint people

in the Fashington,

D. C. area.

KOWU7 bas a roputation

os a Iles and CiA

foole that bio personal asbition

for out moighe any vales

he could love to that ageary.

Further on 10/24/01, tho

Dopt. of State advised that

not desire that so conduet

eng antitson active invostigation of BoRIT.

In sion of the

abovo and in tberabsonco of • spocifie roquost by the Departmons

tase WrO dons not fool that further lavestigation in thia

mattor is varrantod; esther if the notaratios of lous and

his organisation de

tho sotiestios of MBErBl.

DocId: 32335492

Page 3

---

