# docid-32314252

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10335-10179

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-174-3-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BU

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/14/1962

*PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

-CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

1...

v9.1

DocId: 32314252

Page

1

6

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"D-143 112-28-65)

MIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, F3I

(Bufile 92-3972

JUNE

DATE:

5/14/62

FROM

: SAC, BUFFALO (02-174 Sub 3) (P)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

Character of Case

Field Office

AR

Symbol Number

Buffalo

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone)

Microphone

FRED G. RANDACCIO, ala

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

FRED G. RANDACCIO, 562 Richmond Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

....

Apartment of DARLINE GRANN, 51 Essex St., Buffalo, N.Y.,

where she is

residine as DELORIS DE MARCC

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Buffalo Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

authorization - Bureau airtel 11/17/61

Installation - 12/* /61

5.

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

Microphone at Delaware Texaco Service Center, 455 Delaware

terred to the service station which is now in operation.

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized? Not applicaole

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard? No

0 нг

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone? No

- Bureau (RM)

1

• Buffalo

LFA: do 1

Registered Mail

92-174-puk3-16

Bearshed

_Sentaila

Indered Filed

DocId: 32314252 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej:*

DATE: 11-14-2017

EU 92-174 Sub 3

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line? Private line

e. If a party line, how many parties? Not applicable

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state numbèr of microphones actually

used and location of each:

oa auto sta, resetto, e In telephone of DARLES GRANNY,

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Yes, however, telephone conversation not monitored.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject is known by five live Informants who are not in position

to furnish the information as supplied by BU

264-5*

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

No

I4. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None. Plant at Buffalo Office.

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

SIx

- 2 -

DocId: 32314252 Page 3

---

