# docid-32347814

## Page 1

Date: 10/19/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released

under

the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection

Act

0f

1992

144 USC

: 107 Notel.

Case#: NT 53199

late: 06-07-2017

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10067-10103

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

:

BRECKINRIDGE, S.D. (CIA)

TO : BLAKEY, G. ROBERT (HSCA DIRECTOR)

TITLE : CIA COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT REPORT ON DEMOHRENSCHILDT.

DATE : 03/26/79

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : COMMENTS

CZAILOWSKI

BROWN, JERRY

DEMOHRENSCHILDT

GOTTSCHILING, R

WARREN COMMISIO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/03/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK12:F7 1993.08.03.09:26:40:680064:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

HW 53199

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

DooId: 32347814

Page

'1

---

## Page 2

Offico of Legislative Counsel

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGION, D. C. 20505

OLC 79-0113/R

26 March 1979

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

House Of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Bob:

on DeMohrenschildt.

Forwarded herewith are our comments on the draft report

• Page 1. Phrase "not tied to any intelligence agency."

Covers both domestic and foreign. Did not warren Cormission

say no evidence of Soviet, etc?

Imprecise as written.

Page 15A. Moore was assigned in 1948 to predecessor organi-

zation of DCD.

The job description is from a classified document. I believe we

took exception before with citing Moore's job description.

It is not

essential to the story. Why not say that his duties in Dallas were

contacting individuals in his area who had information on foreign

subjects.

Page 15B. Delete titles or descriptions of reports. That reveals

specific interests.

Delete all after Yugoslavia, at end of second

line, paragraph 36.

Délete reference to Jerry Brown.

Use descriptive

Request delete reference to Office of Security.

Cale Allen.

He was a CIA employee with an organization acronym for

which was DODS (not DOD, for Department of Defense). Also in

following quotation.

Page 19.

Delete Czaikowski's nane.

Incidentally, he was on

the Georgetown faculty (night teaching).

Page 251. Delete "by Robert Gottschling."

3190

Manchne

HW 53199

DocId:32347814

Pa6 4.384

---

## Page 3

• ;

Page 251. Delete "confidential" fron "confidential infornation"

and reference to Office of Security.

Page 27. Missing, Unable to comment.

Page 30. Lines 9-12. Delete sentence concerning DeVosjoli.

Despite publicity, this remains sensitive matter.

Inat Ryder mentions

it does not detract from sensitivity.

Footnote 81-83. Simply cite "CIA files."

Footnote 84. CIA Memorandum, 13 April 1977.

Footnote 87. CIA Memorandum, 1 May 1964.

Footnote 89. CIA File.

Footnote 108. CIA Memorandum, 30 December 1977.

Footnote 111. CIA Memorandum, 7 May 1963.

Footnote 158. CIA Memorandum, 7 January 1964-

Very truly yours,

PioT

S. D. Breckinridge

• Principal. Coordinator, HSCA

Distribution:

Orig - Adse

1 - SA/DDCI

1 - Jack Sullivan, OS

1 - Dick Rininger, OGC

1 - Bill Sturbitts, LA/DDO

- Russ Holines

- Date Suontion,

SE/DDO

- OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

OLC/SDB/ksn

HW 53199

Docid: 32347814

Page 3

---

