# docid-32291371

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10147

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/20/1960

PAGES:

201

SUBJECTS:

GAL, ASSOC, JCE, SGI, GAMBLING, FISUR, THP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291371

Page 1

332

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-373

NICK:

Thirty two hundred. Twelve hundred.

Two thousand

five hundred and forty four dollars.

Four thousand

three hundred and seventy five dollars.

'Eight

hundred and seventy five dollars.

Twelve one ninety four.

ALEX: All right! Where did you get them other goofy figures?

NICK:

That's all?

ALEX: That's all, NICK.

From the above conversation between ALEX and BENEDETTO,

it would appear likely that the net profits from gambling in

the First Ward during the month of August, 1960, amounted to

$12,194.

It would not seem

clear that this is a net figure

since it is possible that the $12,194 is a gross figure

including that amount of money due to the individual book-

makers located in the First Ward. However, from the experience

of the agents assigned to the Top Hoodlum Program, it would

seem that there are sufficient handbooks located in the First

Ward so that $12,000 would be a net figure after the handbook

operators got their 50% cut.

In this regard it is noted that

OG 6272-C has advised that ALEX has organized all handbook

operators in the First Ward under an arrangement whereby they

retain 50% of their profit and furnish the other 50% to the

ALEX organization, ordinarily through LOUIE BRIATTA.

CG 6343-C* advised that following the above conversation,

ALEX and FERRARO went over more figures and the shuffling and

counting of money was heard for an additional half hour or so.

CG 6343-C* also advised that during that half hour

FERRARO was heard to make the following comment: "We made

it on the 6 for 5.

28 thousand.

What do we get, 24, 5?"

From the above it

is apparent that FERRARO referred to the

"shylocking" or "6 for 5" business which ALEX controls in

the First Ward of Chicago.

CG 6232-C has advised that this business is very pro-

ductive for ALEX in the First Ward, and that ordinarily "6 for

5" refers to the fact that ALEX and his subordinates loan

-D=

COVER PAGE

901-1017

DocId: 32291371 Page 2

---

## Page 3

preleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-373

I'm there. All right.

Oh sure.

If you don't

hear from me that means that I won't be there.

But I'm pretty sure that I will. Okay. No

I won't be able to stay.

a1111

I'm going to send BUTCH

up there... I'll call you one way or the other.

I can't I

have to work here.

Know what I mean.

And they're not open tomorrow, that's why I have

to go today. I'll call you up there.

Concerning ALEX's reference above to an airplane

flight which he intended to take,

it is noted that investiga-

tion had been conducted at all airline offices concerning the

possibility of locating ALEX's destination.

It is noted that

the only possibility in this regard was TWA flight 436 which

Leaves Midway Airport in Chicago daily at 1:45 p.m. and arrives

in South Bend, Indiana, at 2:21 p.m.

South Bend, indiana,

is

approximately

ALEX, a brother of GUS, has a 100 acre

"34 miles from Cassopolis, Mr, gan,,

where. SAMMY

It is noted that

considerable information has been developed

the past con-

cerning

the fact that ALEX frequently visits his brother's

farm and the Detroit Office has conducted a great deal of

investigation there. concerning the location of the farm, the

people involved, etc.

It would, therefore, appear that ALEX

and LADON were intending to fly with an ultimate destination

of Cassopolis.

It is noted that PCI TURA SATANA has advised that

LADON recently was confined to Columbus Hospital in Chicago

with prostrate trouble.

It is therefore possible that LADON

intended to convalesce at the ALEX farm in Cassopolis.

CG 6343-C* advised on September 19, 1960, that

MURRAY HUMPHREYS met with JACKIE CERONE and later GUS ALEX.

Their conversation as best determined by the informant was

as follows:

HUMPHREYS: It's tough to get old and get that way.

CERONE : A lot of strange stuff.

HUMPHREYS:

See, the only thing is, the Government's going to

come back with all these things first, you know.

And the G guys to say that they interviewed. 'em

and that we didn't sell 'em beer.

Then we say

that we did sell 'em beer. How they gonna overcome

1t? It winds up a draw,

doesn't it? What did

you do over the week end?

-X=

COVER PAGE

Sorteti

DocId: 32291371 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-373

record.

So come on out.

PETE the Greek wanted

me to go out with him and I said, no, I won't go.

I had nothing to do with it but he gets mad at me.

MOONEY does.

Not that I

give a (obscene), but why

should he get mad at me?

So I wanted to tell wor

what happened. He says what in the hell is PETE?:

doing with the guy? Listen, GUSSIE, MOE wants me

to get wrecked..

I know that. I just want to clear

it first, 'cause, Jesus Christ, you know, the roof

caves in and he gets mad at everybody. Now, I

should'a told CURLEY. CURLEY wanted me to put

' , ...

. . ................

........

and I didn't want to put the kid in there.

• Did

I do right" That's what I want to tell HUMP.

could put the kid in there, but I think its wrong

to put the kid in there and make him an artist.

I

could

put him on the payroll tomorrow. Let him work

there.

FERRARO: Well, maybe its the experience be wants.

HENRY : Well all right, then I'll do it. I just thought

the kid was better off.

jovial frame of mind. During this party ALEX was observed

yelling to HENRY, who was in the other room, as follows:

"He tells me STEVIE has got 'em in tights now too!"

HENRY answered, "No, in nightgowns, in little nightgowns!"

From the above this would appear to identify HENRY

as HENRY

SUSK, prominent Chicago Pontiac dealer.

It is noted

that PCI TURA SATANA

has advised that HENRY SUSK is, in her

It is noted that this

private club during the week of above conversation initiated

a practice designed to compete with the Gaslight Club and

the Play Boy Club in Chicago by dressing their waitresses

in shorty nightgowns. It is noted that this PCI is one of

the leading burlesque dancers in the country and is intimately

associated with SUSK and ALEX.

- P1 =

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291371

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-373

It is noted that the above information concerns

all information involving GUSSIE ALEX which was supplied by

CG 6343-C* during the period 9/2/60 through 12/8/60.

On 8/5/60, RUSSELL LANG, Manager of the Kahler

Hotel, Rochester, Minnesota, advised SA ROBERT L. CARLSON

that GUS ALEX telephonically contacted him on 8/3 or 8/4/60

and requested a reservation at the hotel for EUGENE BERNSTEIN,

a Chicago Attorney, whom ALEX

referred to in conversation with

LANG as "my very good friend.". It is noted that EUGENE

BERNSTEIN is a Chicago tax attorney with offices at 77 West

Washington in Chicago and that he has prepared income tax

returns during the past ten or 15 years for almost all Chicago

top hoodlums including ALEX. It is also noted that BERNSTEIN

has recently been very seriously ill with cancer of the

throat and it is felt very possible that the reason for his

visit to Rochester, Minnesota, involved treatment for this

condition at Mayo Clinic in Rochester.

It is noted that the Minneapolis Office has

previously instructed that the identity of Mr. LANG should be

protected at all times.

On 8/5/60, PCI TURA SATANA advised SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER that she was in contact with GUS ALEX five or six

times during the two-week period prior to contact with her on

8/5/60. It is noted TURA SATANA is one of the leading burlesque

dancers in this country and that she bas been intimately

associated with ALEX and with HENRY SUSK during the past two

or three years. Miss SATANA advised that she believed she

saw ALEX every night during the week of 7/25/60 during the

evening hours at the Pontiac Agency of HENRY SUSK in the

1600 block of North Clark and accompanied him to the Red Star

Inn in the vicinity.

She stated that on each occasion ALEX

was accompanied by his chauffeur, NATHAN "Butch" LADON.

noted that it did not appear to her that ALEX was anxious

his wet on these

She water, ai

She

to get hometo his wife on these occasions. She also noted

that ALEX and SUSK no longer utilized Suite 14 E at the

St. Clair Hotel in order to entertain their girl friends.

It is noted that SUSK formerly maintained this suite under

the name JOE HENRY and that it has been utilized by practically

all Chicago top hoodlums including ALEX during the past

couple of years.

Due to the fact that on 9/21/60, CG 6343-C*

advised that ALEX was at that time out of

town "visiting his

- L7 -

COVER PAGE

Jot lord

DocId: 32291371 Page 5

---

