# docid-32297138

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10414

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4474-193

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/19/1965

• PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

MIRR, FUNDS, OBA, ASSOC, HAYES, MELVIN, CRIMINAL

ACT, EMP, TRA, RAIDS, CUBA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

IH 45881

DocId: 32297138

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FRO

SUBJECT:

4

12'

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-02

MẠY 1062 EDITION

•GPA GEN. REG.- NO. 21

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

(97-4474)

SAC, MIAMI

(105-2855)

(P)

DATE:

MAR 1 9 1965

35

30

NO AUTO SURE DONATONARYA (MER)

IS - CUBA;

NM

6=T.

Re Miami airtel and letterhead memorandum

Bureau, 2/16/65.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies of

letterhead memorandum dated and captioned as above.

One copy is designated for Little Rock for

information.

to

Copies are being disseminated locally to ONI, Coast Guard,

Ere, or of use to, 92, a State Departme,

and State Department,

NM T-i is MM 974-S.

MM T-2 i

Cuban

Key Source -

DATE 9/B

MM T-3 is MM 635-S *

For the confidential information of the Bureau

on March

16, 1965, Mr. STANLEY SCHACTER, U. S. Customs,

Miami, advised that his office has not yet conducted any

8 MAC

BYSPOBTAGC

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

OTHER

Bureau (Enc. 12)

(RM)

- Little Rock

(105-455) (Enc. 1) (info) (RM)

1

- Miami

GED/neb

cops to San

(4)

by routing slip

info

juan.

date. 3÷

by... V

ENCLOSURE

MN

GATE CUTK

ONI/OSI/ACSI/

by

routing slip for into

Date

2915 by WHN •MN

31

Tain, Scatt

NATADENSIC.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

518-121

wvs 5 3 tae?

NW

45881

DocId: 32297138

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re: MIRR

3osch went on to explain that he did not want the

hospital involved in something that was going to happer

nich might prove embarrassing to the hospital.

Irs. POMERANCE subsequently learned that after leavin

the hospital, Bosch took a trip to Puerto Rico, where

he remained unt1l March 1, 1965, at which time

arrived back in Miami.

MEMBER-SUBJESI BRCANIZATION

RAMOS explained that

he is associated with Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH and is assisting

him. RAMOS claimed also to be a pacifist. He said that

he lives on an island known as Cayo del Norte, which

is located to the east of Saint Thomas in the Virgin Islands.

His mail address is Lista de Correos, Estacion Postal,

Santurce, Puerto Rico.' RAMOS disclosed that he came to FLA.

March 1, 1965, via Mexico, after having stopped NEGRO

01f 1n Costa Rica, He 1s a minister 18 a Protestant church. f.R.

He was born in Holguin, Cuba, but has not been there for CUBA

many years.

he wis wearing, the

Protestant missionary.

ECUATED DEFATE DETECT ORGANIZATON

On March 4, 1965, MM T-2, a Cuban exile who 1s

personally acquainted with

members of the wIer,

advised

that on Saturday, February 27, 1965, Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH

met with two Cubans at a Standard Oil gasoline station

(Last Name Unknown), an employee of CAJIGAS.

BOSCH discussed

with these two Cubans the possibility of acquiring a quantity

of weapons from an American who lives in or near bosch'

Florida.

This American is a friend of CAJIGAS.

told one of these Cubans that he has an airplane, but did

not mention its location or further describe it.

BOSCH

was accompanied by MARCELINO GARCIA. MM T-2 said it appeared

that the unidentified American from

who was not

a1s reportedy willing to give some

anti-CASTRO group of Cuban exiles.

2.

NH 45881

DocId: 32297138

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Re: MIRR

•S

On March 11, 1965, MM T-3, a Cuban exile who is

acquainted with BOSCH and some other members of the MIRR,

advised that BOSCH has launched a program of raising money.

He has placed coin boxes

at many Cuban coffee shops and

restaurants throughout the Miami area soliciting donations

to carry on the fight against CASTRO. He also is scheduled

to hold a rally at Dinner Key Auditorium on March 21, 1965,

for the same purpose.

BOSCH has let it be known that he

will make some important announcements at this meeting.

On March 5, 1965, MM T-I advised on the previous

a close friend and associate of BOSCH,

on Cuba which will be bigger than anything they have done

and which will gain for the MIRR a large amount of

revorable publicity, thus assisting their fund raising campaign.

GARCIA claimed that

the pilot on this mission would be an

American by the name of GRIFFIN.

He said the plane is FLA, CUBA

located at a small airport near Pompano Beach which 1s

for sport-type and non-commercial planes.

"He claimed

the bombs to be used on this mission woüld be obtained frou

a location somewhere in North Carolina or Virginia.

indicated there is a third person involved, believed to be

named CAROL (phonetic), who could be either a man or a woman.

GARCIA Identified the target for this raid as the Belot Refinery

located at Regla, Havana.

GARCIA advised that final plans

have not yet been made and no specific date has been set

for the raid.

INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED

CONCERNING THE ALLEGED

MIRR RAID OF. FEBRUARY 12 -

13, 1965

The following investigation was conducted to

determine if MEL HAYES, who rented an Aero Commander plane,

Registration N2720B, from BERNIE LITTLE, Angel Aviation,

Tampa,

Florida, on February 11, 1965, and returned this plane

to the Angel Aviation Company on

February 13, 1965, had any

3.

NW 45881

DocId: 32297138

Page 4

---

