# docid-32327141

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90059-10037

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-12846-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/27/1971

4

RICHARD CAIN

RICHARD SCALZETTI CAIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32327141

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released ulder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 11-11-2017

NROOS CG CODE

512PM NITEL 1D-27-71 EOM

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO (92-2652)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF, INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 271971 €

TELETYPE

RICHARD SCALZETTI

11 CANNOT AIDE

011100 of DrABIO

ARO 00: CHICAGO.

• 194

TIT USE

r. Mason

Mr.

Mr. Mohr

Lir. Bubop

Mr. Miller, ES

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Conradie

Mr. Dalba

Mr.

Clev

Mr.

Mr.

Rates

Mr.

Tavel ---

Mr. Walters

Mr. S yai's--

Tele. Room

M.ss

Holmes.

Miss Gandy..

Hotel.

AS BUREAU AWARE, CAPTIONED SUBJECT WAS"AT ONE TIME

POSSIBLY MOST CORRUPT LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN HISTORY OF

CHICAGO WHO WORKED UNDER PERSONAL DIRECTION OF SAM GIANCANA

WHEN GIANCANA WAS BOSS OF ORGANIZED CRIME IN CHICAGO. CAIN

IS INDIVIDUAL WHO PLOTTED ROUTE OF GIANCANA WHEN GIANCANA

WENT TO MEXICO AND WHO MADE ALL OF GIANCANA'S ARRANGEMENTS

THERE. HE HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS ACTUAL MEMBER ORGANIZED

CRIME HERE AND BELIEVED TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR SEVERAL MURDERS.

CAIN WAS CONVICTED OF BANK ROBBERY CONSPIRACY IN

NINETEEN

SIXTY NINE AND ON OCT TWENTY LAST WAS RELEASED FROM

PRISON.

IMMEDIATELY UPON-HIS RETURN HE CONTACTED JACK MORAN,

217

PRIVATE DETECTIVE IN CHICAGO WHO HAS BEEN ONE OF HIS CLOSEST ME: 90!1

ASSOCIATES, AND CONFIDANT HERE.

1:651,11

MORAN, BEING OPENED AS PC, ADVISED THAI CAIN REQUESTED

THAT MORAN PUT HIM TO WORK AS A "FRONT" WHILE CAIN ATTEMPTS

END PAGE ONE..

MCT-8

DE32

4-18

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

92-.

12848°

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

EX-100

REC-53.

12 001 29 1971

DATE 22/2901 BY 2333. G05/59

9114192 980 Negel *75,128

MR. ROSEN FOR THE DIRECTOR

DocId: 32327141 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassigation Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Noter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

TO BECOME ACTIVE IN ORGANIZED CRIME HERE. CAIN HAS

DEVELOPED A "BRAZEN" ATTITUDE AND AS EXAMPLE WHEN HE READ

RECENT NEWSPAPER PUBLICITY THAT ATTORNEY GENERAL MITCHELL

ANNOUNCED THAT BACK OF ORGANIZED CRIME IN CHICAGO HAD BEEN

BROKEN BECAUSE NO CAPABLE LEADER COULD BE FOUND TO LEAD

ORGANIZATION HERE, CAIN TOLD MORAN "MITCHELL HAS A NEW

CANDIDATE NOW".

MORAN ADVISED THAT IMMEDIATELY UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN

CHICAGO FROM PRISON, CAIN MADE TWO APPOINIMENTS. ONE WAS

WITH FIORE BUCCIERI, UPPER ECHELON LEADER OF ORGANIZED CRIME

HERE, AND OTHER WAS WITH PAI MARCY, LEADER CHICAGO'S FIRST

WARD DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION WITH WHOM CAIN WAS CLOSE TO

WHEN HE WAS WORKING FOR GIANCANA.

PURPOSE OF MEETINGS WAS FOR CAIN TO OBTAIN JOB IN

ORGANIZED CRIME HERE.. MORAN ADVISED THAT CAIN FEELS HE

COULD OBTAIN TOP JOB UNDER RALPH PIERCE, UPPER ECHELON

LEADER ON SOUTH SIDE CHICAGO, WHOSE TOP LIEUTENANI, ART

MARKLE, DIED THREE WEEKS AGO. HOWEVER, CAIN HOLDING OUT FOR

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32327141 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 714 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

•PAGE THREE

SOMETHING BETTER ACCORDING TO WHAT HE TOLD MORAN.

ANOTHER PURPOSE OF CAIN'S MEETINGS WAS TO OBTAIN JOB

FOR HIS FORMER WIFE, HARIETTE BLAKE, A RECORDING ARTIST.

THIS HE IMMEDIATELY DID AI MANGAM'S CHATEAU, A FIRST CLASS

WEST SUBURBAN NIGHT CLUB WHERE BLAKE OPENED LAST NIGHT.

IT IS DEFINITE FEELING OF MORAN THAT CAIN STRIVING FOR

A TOP JOB IN ORGANIZED CRIME AND WITH CHARACTERISTIC "GALL"

FEELS HE CAN "GET THE OUTFIT MOVING AGAIN" WITHOUT PARTICULAR

JEOPARDY TO HIMSELF• MORAN FEELS CAIN WOULD DEFINITELY

TAKE TOP JOB ALTHOUGH SINCE HE REMAINS ON PROBATION UNTIL

APRIL, SEVENTYTWO, WILL PROBABLY WAIT TO MAKE "TOO MANY

MOVES" UNTIL THEN.

IT IS OPINION OF CHICAGO OFFICE THAT MORAN'S

INFORMATION IS UNDOUBTEDLY ACCURATE. CAIN IS EGOTISTICAL,

SHARP, INTELLIGENT AND AMBITIOUS AND CLOSE TO GIANCANA IN

PAST. IT WOULD NOT BE PASI HIM, IN FRAME OF MIND HE

APPARENTLY IS IN, TO ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN NEAR LEADERSHIP

POSITION IN ORGANIZED CRIME HERE AND TO ATTEMPT TO

END PAGE THREE

DocId: 32327141

Page 4

---

