# docid-32404442

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10331-10313

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

JFK

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

: JOHN F. PEREIRA

TITLE

MEMO:

MEMO: MEETING WITH JEK ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW

DATE

PAGES

05/26/1995

1

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

30 DOCUMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : ADMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENIS

04/23/03

JFK-M-16 : F13 :

2000.02.11.09:13:42:967054

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-24-2017

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10313

NW 53217

DocId:32404442

Page, 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CSI-0333/95

26 May 1995

2000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Center for the Study

of Intelligence

FROM:

John Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT:

Meeting with JFK Assassination

Records Review Board

This memorandum is for your information.

1: On 18 May 1995, members of the Directorate of

Operations and the Historical Review Group met with the

JFK Assassination Records Review Board to discuss the

declassification of CIA records. The Board had requested

the meeting for purposes of educating its members as to the

categories of information that probably will require

continued protection i.e., by deleting words or inserting

substitute language.

2.

The discussion focused on some 30 documents that

describe CIA operations in Mexico City at the time of the

assassination. Among the categories of information

discussed were: locations of stations, surveillance methods,

intelligence liaison relationships, names of agents and

staff officers, and pseudonyms and

cryptonyms. In a number

of instances we suggested alternative ways of describing

sensitive information, which the Board seemed to find a

reasonable approach.

3. No decisions were made by the Board during the three

and half hour meeting, but the session was highly productive

in terms of providing

the Board a basis for understanding

material in documents related to sensitive sources and

methods:

Board Chairman John Tunheim told me that the Board

found the discussion very helpful in helping them fulfill

their responsibility for approving or disapproving all

recommendations to withhold information.

The Board's

Executive Director, David Marwell said it was a valuable

meeting, and he complimented the Agency representatives for

being willing to engage in an open-minded discussion that

not scripted."

Joh

En Pereira

John

Pereira

ADMINISTRATIVE

→ INTERNAL. USE ONLY

53217 DooId:32404442

Page 2

---

