# docid-32287567

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10197-10343

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1460

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:. 10/02/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, TRA, CENTRAL AMERICA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32287567

20

Page

---

## Page 2

leased

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11'

DATE:

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSP-FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6 =

SECRED

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

IRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

DATE: 10/2/75

FROM

GAT, MEXICO CITY: (92-18) (P)

SUBJECT

CANIVINOO-NUiS

0SI2083/

VAMORNI

ITV

RITO

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

÷1454

13/8/94

Classified by SPsmAe/bei

Declassily or DADF 5FK) T

Re Miami letter dated 6/5/75.

GUILLERMO SOLIS, Department of Criminal Inves-

tigations, Costa Rican National Police, who is assigned to

the Security Detail at the International Airport at san

Jose on 9/10/75 advised that SANTO TRAFFICANTE arrived in

Subject

Subject

departed. Costa Rica 8/9/75 en route to Miami and again

arrived Costa Rica. on 8/18/75 via LACSA Airlines from Miami

He reportedly departed Costa Rica on 8/31/75 en route

Santiago, Chile; Lima,

Peru; and Buenos Aires, Argentina

•He returned to Costa Rica on the morning of 9/10/75 from

Panama aboard LACSA Flight 610.

Source indicated that TRAFFICANTE is met at the

San Jose Airport, on each occasion of his arrival into

Costa Rica by EVARISTO GARCIA VIDAL. Source indicated

that GARCIA VIDAL reportedly has a close association with

Colonel ROSENDO HERRERA. Chief of the Depärtment of Criminal

Investigations, Costa Rican National Police, and with MARIO

CHARPENTIER, Costa Rican Minister of Public Security

Subject reportedly owns a house in the Barrio-Las Americas

in San Jose.

TRA

Sergeant JORGE-LATINEZ (protect), Panama National

Guard, Panama City,

Panama, on 9/11/75, advised that subject

was detained 8/2/75 at the Tocumen International Airport

Partie

at Panama City.

employee. of the National Casinos of Panama.

Subject's wifes

PERM

- Bureau lee dy

(1

-Foreign Liaison Unit)

REC-56 92-2781-1460

(2 - Miami) (92-98) nel

1,12

* - Mexico City

Ks OCT &

• 1975

(1 - 162-8)

AC/ jeb

NO DELA

al: 14

IND

DocId: 3201

F247

SECRET

Page 22 But 5. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 3

teleased under

Hate?

DATE:

the John'T. Kennedy Mesassination Records Collection Act of 1992

11-14-20173

MEX: 92-18

rand PASSINI were neleased the

same date. Subject's wife

* reportedy called someone in the USA from Panama, a

congressman or senator who in turn called the US. Embassy

in Panama.

The Embassy thereafter called the, Panamanian

Department of National Investigations to inform them that

there wereuno warrants or holds against TRAFFICANTE

Subject was

released 0/4/75 and departed Panama en route

Costa Rica theysame date. S)

enquiry.

through the US Embassy at Panama

City"

Panama, on 9/11 and 9/12/75 failed to indicate

any record

of subject's visit or supposed call from the USA concerning

the subject.

LEAD:

MEXICO CITY

AT SAN. JOSE:,

/ COSTA RICA

will continue to follow

and report contacts and activities of the subject

2

ECRE

42 2741-1460

DoC14:02287567

Page

---

