# docid-32341101

## Page 1

Released undef the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

CONFXDENTIAL

PAGE TWO

PLANNED MILITARY OPERATION AGAINST CASTRO WITH GROUP OF CUBANS

ON DIAZ TWO BOATS, THE EIGHTYTHREE,

BOAT "QUSA" AND A SMALL "MOPPIE"

MM IMMEDTATEL

"NOTIFIED U. S. CUSTOM

AND BORDER PATROL ABOVE FACIS. / BOTH REPORTED ABOVE GRUMAN BEARCAT,

REGISTRATION NUMBER ONE ZERO THREE THREE B, ALREADY UNDER SUSPICION AT

BROWARD COUNTY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT. THIS PLANE REGISTERED TO WILLIAM

JOHNSON, BUT REPORTEDLY PURCHASED BY ALEXANDER I. RORKE, NEWSPAPERMAN

OF NEW YORK CITY• U. S. CUSTOMS ALREADY HAD SURVEILLANCE ON

"SALLY". ON OCTOBER TWENTYFIVE U. S. CUSTOMS ADVISED THAT THE "VIOLYN

III" IS OWNED BY RORKE. TODAY JONES REPORTED THAT WILLIAM JOHNSON,

CAROLS HEVIA AND FOUR OTHER CUBANS RETURNED OCTOBER FIFTEEN TO

ISLAMORADA, ON BOARD "VIOLYN ILI" FROM VICINITY ANGULLA CAY, NEAR

CAY SAL, BRITISH BAHAMAS, WITH SMALL QUANTITY WEAPONS ON BOARD, AND

GROUP CLAIMED TO HAVE

OTHER WEAPONS CONCEALED NEAR ANGULLA CAY• THIS

AFTERNOON U. SO CUSTOMS SEIZED THE GRUMAN BEARCAT PLANE AT FT. LAUD-

ERDALE, ON GROUNDS IT WAS INTENDED FOR ILLEGAL EXPORT.

MIAMI CONDUCTING NO ACTIVE INVESTIGATION IN AS MUCH AS MATTER

ALREADY UNDER INVESTIGATION BY BORDER PATROL AND CUSTOMS, BUT WILL

REPORT INFO RECEIVED FROM INFORMANTS TO INTERESTED AGENCIES AND MAIN-

TAIN LIAISON WITH U. S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PATROL.

LETTERHEAD MEMO WILL FOLLOW MONDAY•

END

AND ACK PLS

12-08 OK FBI WA RAG OK

RELAY S

BLAY 1100

TU AND CLEAR

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32341101 Page 1

---

