# docid-32297080

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10356

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-1ST NR 27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/25/1959

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

PDL, JIMENEZ, ANTONIO NUNEZ, ASSOC, TRA, RALLY, PRO

CASTRO ACT, SPEECHES, PURCHASE, TRACTORS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/31/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32297080

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

pis

SECREN

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-78536)

CLASSIFIED DY 5668 SUO/GeL

DECLAOSITY ON: 25X @X(6)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-36810)

77K1 1/27/98

SUBJECT: ANTONIO NUNEZ JIMENEZ

Bedro daris Sinz

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

Re NY airtel to Bureau, 7/17/59, captioned "FPM-

CUBA"

, and NY airtels to Bureau with copies to Chicago and

WFO dated 7/21 and 22/59, captioned "ANTONIO NUNEZ JIMENEZ;

IS-CUBA.

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

:100.2120

NUNN

HPPE 7 :40

Transmit the following

FBI

Date: 7/25/59

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Transmitted herewith are 11 copies of a letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as above with an evaluation

memorandum attached for each.

Information copies are being

designated for Chicago and WFO inasmuch as subject's tour

includes those cities.

NY T-I 1S NY 2494-S*.J(S]

The information attributed to Detective JOHN

CAULFIELD in the memorandum was furnished to SA FRANCIS

I. LUNDQUIST on the dates indicated.

It is noted that subject is expected to return to

NY for celebration of the July 26th Movement on Sunday, 7/26/59.

Pertinent info developed in connection therewith will be sub-

mitted by the NYo to the Bureau in "comr dential

establishments

TRIC

woula prejudice national defense.b

3-Bureau (105-78536) (Encls.22) (RM)

I-Chicago (Encls.2) (RM)

1-Washington Field (Encls.2) (RM)

1-New York (109-112) (FPM-CUBA)

1205-72630-

NOT RECORDED

193 JUL 29 1959

1-New York (105-36810) (NUNEZ JIMENEZ,

FIL: bts.

2 ENCROSURE

(DE

which

AAbproved cy

Special Agent In charge Sent

M Per

DocId: 32297080

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF IL/STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONHEIENIAL

SECRET

New York, New York

July 25, 1959

SIFIED BY SORMACIA

GABR

DECLASSI

Re:

Antonio Nunez Jimenez

Internal Security - Cuba

ATT: TETORMATION CONTATATO

E THE WESS SHOWN

On July 17, 1959, Detective John Caulfield, Bureau

of Special Services, New York City Police Department (BSS, NYCPD),

advised that a rally was scheduled to be held at St. Nicholas

Arena, New York City, on the night of July 17, 1959, under the

auspices of the World Harvest Evangelism Incorporated, and the

American Evangellatic Association.

stated that Captain

Antonio Nunez Jimenez and two associates were scheduled to.

arrive in New York City via Cuban Army plane on the afternoon

of July 17, 1959, for the purpose of addressing the rally. He

said that Captain Nunez Jimenez and his associates were reportedly

carrying a personal message from Fidel Castro to the people of

New York and in their speeches, would respond to the charges

of Communism which had been leveled against Castro.

It is to be noted that Fidel Castro 1s the self-

admitted leader of the July 26th Movement which ousted the

Cuban Government of Fulgencio Batista on January 1, 1959.

Castro recently resigned as Prime Minister of Cuba.

on July 17, 1959, NY I-1 Informed that he had

learned that date from Luis Baralt, Cuban Consul _General

in

New York City, that the Director of the Agrarian Reform

Program in Cuba, Captain Nunez Jimenez, was scheduled to

neak at an affair at st

that Captain Nunez Jimenez is a controversial figure and

a representative of the Cuban Revolutionary. Government. &&

NYCPD, advised that the aforementioned rally at St. Nicholas

Arena in New York City was attended by approximately 125

people. According to Caulfield, Captain Antonio Nunez

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 ScO/GCL

SECRET

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (0X6)

0FR> 427/98

GONTIENTIAT

ENCEDSURE

105-726301

DocId: 32297080 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2707 lote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRE L

"Speaking in Spanish, he told the audience that

the Castro policy of confiscating large estates would

remain in force.

Some companies, he said, owned hundreds

of thousands of acres of land.

""The revolution had to put an end to this', he

saidi"

on July 20, 1959, NY I-I advised that Captain Nunez

Ilmenez stated that he was plarning a trip to washines rfC..

Illinois, and would be accompanied by

and Chicago rebel" soldiers, some members of the "policia'"

a couple of

and possibly Luis Baralt. 5)

On July 21, 1959, NY T-1 advised*that (Luis Baralt 6)

had remarked that he

was leaving New York City on July 22, 1959,

for Washington, D.C., with Captain Nunez Jimenez and indicated

that they would remain either one or two days in Washington,

then go on to Chicago for one or two days and expected

to be

in New York City again the following Sunday for sure. 7&

(5)

On July 22, 1959, NY T-1 learneakthat Sir Richard

Martis (Phonetic), not further identified,

Congressman Porter had expressed a desire

to meet Captain

Nunez Jimenez In Washington, D.C. so that he could introduce

the Captain to some friends of Cuba in that city.

According

to VartisCongressman Porter expressed a reluctance to

contact Captain Nugez Jimenez directly and preferred to

do it through the Cuban ConsulateS) The informant advised

that he had learned that Captain Nunez Jimenez was then

staying at the statler Hotel in washingtony 26Eh' but wan

scheduled to be in New York City for a

• Movement

celebration on Sunday, July 26, 1959.30

NY I-1 also Informed on July 22,

Mr. (first name unknown) Pearlman of the firm Truman and

Washburn was attempting to arrange for Captain Nunez Jimenez

a entire restant

1959,sthat a

to contact John Greyson, President of J. I. Case Company,

tractor dealers of Racine, Wisconsin. '

The informant learned * (&' u)

-3 -

SECRET

DocId: 32297080 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- RECBET

SECRET

Xthat Pearlman's firm is interested in financing the purchase

"of tractors by the Cuban Agrarian Reform Commission from J.1.

case Company 7050(4)

July 23, 1959, NY T-I advisedthe had learned that

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of any kind.

It is the property of the FBI,.

and is a loan to your agency; it and/or its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

ЗЕСЬЕ

CONFID

A D

DocId: 32297080 Page 5

---

