# docid-32316639

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10350-10081

HQ

CR 109-584-3540

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

04/26/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:0N 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32316639

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ElEGRAM INFE?MATION

MATION REPCA

TELEGRAM

TRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

contains information

affecting

National

Defense.. of

United States

This

material

any manner.to

unauthorized

is prohibited

meited by the Espionage Laws, Titlo

18, .U.S.C Secs.

793

and

794.

the

transmission or revelation of which in

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SEC

E I/ CONTROLLED DISSEM KINGS ONLY

(When Flea In)

ĐÉC

SSIDES ĐV

as mac

OUNTRY

CUBA

ON

1-a1-95

JFIC.

UBJECT

PLANNED

DEMONSTRATION BY CUBAN EXILES

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/654,363

DATE DISTR.

26 APRIL 1963

ON 1

MAY 1963 TO PROTEST U.S

GOVERNMENT, ACTION AGAINST EXILE

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

RAIDS ON CUBA

GIA HAS NO

USJECTION. 10

ATE OF

18-19 APRIL 1963

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIUNCES

S IN 25735.

NFO.

LACE &

UNITED STATES (20 APRIL

I9GSSSE OF CIA INFORMATIOG

¡ATE ACO.

THIS DOCUMENT, KP

1398

D REPORT NO

UFG-2735

APPRAISAL 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATIÓN. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

OURCE

U.S. OWNER (B) OF A MARINA WHO IS INTIMATELY

ACQUAINTED WITH

MARITIME MATTERS IN FLORIDA, FROM KEN AGNEW,

TV REPRESENTATIVE

IN MIAMI:

Anti- Castro Acturties

blas

134-

•1. ON 10 APRIL AT 9:30 P..M. KEN

AGNEW, MIAMI TV CHANNEL

REPRESENTATIVE IN MARATHON, FLORIDÀ; RECEIVED A PHONE CALL FROM

JOE/GORMAN, 1925 SW 4TH ST. MIAMI, WHO REQUESTED THAT AGNEW

COVER A MEETING WHICH WAS TO BE HELD AT 11 P.M. THAT NIGHT AT

14TH AVE. AND 5TH ST. SW, APT. 2, MIAMI, FOR THE PURPOSE OF

ÖRGANIZING A DEMONSTRÄTION TO BE HELD IN MIAMI ON I MAY WITH THE

PROTEST OF U.S. GOVERNMENT

FB.

at

4/30,

review

nie 1e9

Bufile 62

for

¡SCA

HOPE OF SPREADING A NATIONWIDE

ACTION AGAINST EXILE RAIDS ON CUBA, DURING THE CALL, GORMAN WAS

HEARD

RECEIVINGERS ALL A SEE SUMABLY FROM

SECRET /CONTROLLED DISSEN

i auromotic

RECE

ORR

0B1

00

¡TATE/INR

DIA!

ARMY/PCS TNAVY

TATE/DIR

REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM

TELEGRAM

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

2200

50 MAY Y

1963

ORMS

1K

OBSOLETE PREVIQUS EDITIONS.

* I. &N'S

FBI

INFORMATION

REPORT

FOIPA #

219,8/L

«APPEAL *

10 MAY 1 1963

073704,235

(CAT. 4)

BAM

DATDI3-18-816

BETTALS TARI 09-584

(15-

NW 54464 DooId: 32316639

Page 2

---

## Page 3

250-10081

SEC

When Fi

CA

FICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

ET

/CONTROLLED DISSEM

In)

APR 23 8 1 DCSDB-3/654, 363

IN 25735

PAGE

* CUBA

GORMAN TOLD AGNEW HE (AGNEW) WOULD MEET MARIO FONTELA

VALFONSO,

CHIEF OF PRESS AND PROPAGANDA FOR THE FRENTE OBRERO

Elis

REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO CUBANO (FORDE, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

Cil!

DEMOCTRATIC WORKERS FRONT), AND OTHERS WHO WOULD BE PRESENT AT

THE MEETING TO DRAFT. THE PROTEST. GORMAN SAID HE HAD TELEPHONED

OTHER NEWSPAPER MEDIA IN MIAMI BUT NO INTEREST HAD BEEN SHOWN•

AGNEW ADVISED GORMAN AT 11:15 P.M. ON 18 APRIL THAT HE (AGNEW)

COULD NOT GO TO MIAMI TO COVER THE MEETING.

20 ON 19 APRIL AT 8 A.M. GORMAN ASKED AGNEW TO COVER ANOTHER

MEETING SCHEDULED FOR THAT AFTERNOON OR EVENING. AGNEW FLEW TO

MIAMI AT NOON IN HIS PRIVATE PLANE AND WAS PICKED UP AT THE

TAMIAMI AIRPORT BY GORMAN AND THREE UNIDENTIFIED CUBANS AND TAKEN

TO THE 14TH AVENUE APARTMENT, HOWEVER, THE SECOND MEETING HAD

MEANWHILE BEEN CANCELLED AFTER FONTELA WAS CONTACTED FOR

QUESTIONING BY THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI)

3. GERALD PATRICK HEMMING AND: HOWARD K

DAVIS ARRIVED AT THE

APARTMENT TO PICK UP. GORMAN, THE THREE

MEN WERE TO SEE CHARLES

STASIMAN, ATTORNEY, ABOUT THE RELEASE OF GORMANIS CAR WHICH HADE /2

BEEN SEIZED 4 DECEMBER WHEN HEMMINGIS GROUP WAS APPREHENDED

BY WaS. CUSTOMS AGENTS. HEMMING AND DAVIS SAID THEY HAD JUST

LEFT FONTELA, WHO, ANGERED, HAD "JUMPED ALL OVER THEM" BECAUSE IT.

SEEMED: THAT EVERYONE KNEW OF THE MEETING THE NIGHT BEFORE.. FONTELA

SAID THE INFORMATION HAD LEAKED OUT BECAUSE FBI AGENTS HAD CONTACTED

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECR

/ CONTROLLED DISSEM.

NW 54464 DooId: 32316639

Page 3

---

