# docid-32300082

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10362

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-265

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/12/1961

5

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

- RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32300082 Page 1

396

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev.: 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

. AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

6/12/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

-ALL INFORMATION.CONTAINED

HEREI, IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20-34. BY SP5056/

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM:

SAC,

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.

AR

GIANCANA, aka.

Rebuirtel to Chicago, 6/9/61.

CG T-12 is an operator of a Las Vegas, Nevada,

"strip" hotel and gaming casino. (BELDEN KATLEMAN) • U

CG T-19 is an operator of a Las Vegas; Nevada,

Pe GAurA, das Cose PO JOSEPH PIGNATELLO, a close assoctate

of GIANCANA. (Las Vegas PCI I

CG T-24, no longer in Chicago, and whose whereabouts

are unknown, was formerly the "public relations" director

of the. Cloister Inn,

a Chicago Near North Side nightclub.

She was a girl friend of several Chicago nightclub operators

and minor hoodlums, and became associated with GIANCANA. Her

reliability at this point, however, is unknown, even though

'She has furnished reliable information in the past. U

CG T-29 is current PCI|

He is

employed as an outside investigator and collector for the

Central National Bank, Chicago. He claims to have grown up

with Chicago hoodlums, MARSHALL CAIFANO, SAM GIANCANA, et al.

He has furnished reliable information in the past regarding

JOSEPH GLIMCO, and others in the Labor Union Field, in

addition to GIANCANA and CAIFANO. He has stated an intense

fear of the individuals, and has stated that he does not desire

that his identity or cooperation to the Bureau become known

for fear of reprisal to he and his. family.u

REC- 50

-

Bureau

2

Las Vegas

• (92-308).

1 - Chicago

RRH: JEH

(6)

92=3121-265

JUN LA 1961

OTHER 4

Approved:

C C • Wick

Sent .

Agent in Charge

NW 45792 DocId: 32300082

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

CG T-30 is former PCI|

who resides

in an apartment building adjacent to the Armory Lounge,

Forest Park,

Illinois.

She is only slightly acquainted with

GIANCANA, however, knows him by sight. She has been in a

position

to observe and furnish the identities of automobile

license numbers in and

near the Armory Lounge. U

CG T-31 is PCIL

• who until recently

was employed as card

dealer and "lookout" at the Riviera

Lounge, Niles, Illinois, which is an operation of GIANCANA

through his lieutenant,

ROCCO POTENZO.

He has been extremely

reluctant to furnish information; however, that which he has

furnished has proved to be reliable. U

CG T-36 is a former PCI who was employed in the

kitchen of MEO's Norwood House Restaurant, a one time hoodlum

hangout. His whereabouts are now unknown. U

CG T-37 is former PCI

who at

one time was employed by MEO's, Villa

Venice Restaurant,

Wheeling, Illinois.

The information he furnished, although

limited,

was considered to be reliable. U

CG T-50 is former PCI|

a Chicago

Bondsman, Negro, who was in a position to furnish information

relating to the

activities of another Bondsman; IRVING WEINER,

known to be closely associated with the hoodlum element.

His information was known to be very reliable.u

CG T-68 is PCI

time Chicago bookmaker who was recently severely beaten by

Syndicate hoodlums in what turned out to be a successful

attempt to bring him into the "syndicate" regarding his book-

naking activities. Although he is still a current PCI, the

fact that he has "gone to the other side" makes his current

reliability questionable, although the information he furnished

CG T-70 is PCI L

Jan old time

hicago confidence man who has a long record of arrests fo

He was in an excellent position t

furnish

information regarding bookmaking wire services, and

at one time was symbol number 5373-C.

in a pending inactive status until recently in view of a Civil

Suit which HIRSCH brought for false arrest from a Bureau appre-

hension in 1953: U

OTHER 4

- 2 -

NW 45792

DocId: 32300082

Page 3

---

