# docid-32331435

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

- 124-90097-10057

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-637-79

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45964 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BA

HQ

DATE: 05/18/1964

PAGES: 42

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HH 45964 DocId: 32331435

Page 1

---

## Page 2

BA 166-63

INFORMANTS:

BA 1267-C advised

on May 14, 1964, that ALLEN CHARLES

FISHER, principal involved in the

arrest by Maryland State

Police at the Charlotte Hall gambling club in June, 1963,

currently employed as a gambler in the El Cortez Hotel

which was reportedly located to be in either Las Vegas or

Reno, Nevada.

CI indicated that she has determined that

FISHER is definitely in either Reno or Las Vegas.

However,

she could not guarantee that it was definitely the El Cortez

Hotel that he is employed in.

LEADS:

LAS VEGAS DIVISION

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

Determine location of El Cortez Hotel, determining

thereafter if ALIEN CHARLES FISHER 1s

so employed.

the event hotel is non existent or if not so

employed,

contact appropriate sources in an effort

to determine where in Las Vegas or Reno FISHER

1s currently located.

No interview of FISHER

should be conducted at this time concerning this

matter.

RICHMOND DIVISION

AT KING GEORGE COUNTY, VIRGINIA

Locate and interview EDWARD HAMWAY who reportedly

resides in a pink split level house on Route 3,

one mile from the intersection of Route 3 and

Route 206 near Fredericksburg, Virginia.

Richmond's Information, HAMWAY was associated with

C. MILES MATTINGLY of Leonardtown, Maryland, during

June, 1963, when both individuals leased the

Sportsman's Club Restaurant from PHILIP E. GRAY Of

Lexington Park, Maryland.

HAMWAY reportedly

negotiated with ALLEN CHARLES FISHER in permitting the

shack behind the restaurant to be renovated which

ultimately was used by the principals, NESLINE,

TOURINE and FISHER in the gambling club, which

club was raided by Maryland State Police

C

COVER PAGE

NW 45964 DooId: 32331435

Page 2

---

