# docid-32292928

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10204

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-364

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/17/1961

LST, FISUR, REL, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292926

52

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IMVESZIGATION

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COM SUNICATIONS SECTIO

NOV1 7 1961

Mr. Belmont.

Vir. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans k

TELETYPE

Mr. Malone.-

Mr. Rosen

DEFERRED

Mr. Sullivan

11-17-61

3-52 PM

EST

WHM

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Me. Ingram

Miss Gandy

SAC, TAMPA /92-1/

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE,

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE

JRO, AKAO ARO DAILY TELETYPE. C

SPOT, EISURS SUBJECT RESIDENCE, CONTACTS AND RELATIVES NIGHT OF NOVEMBER

FIFTEEN END DAY OF NOVEMBER SIXTEEN FOR SUBJECT PRESENCE NEGATIVE.

CS IP FIVE ONE DASH C MADE AVAILABLE INFORMATION NOVEMBER SIXTEEN THAT

MRS. JOSEPHINE TRAFFICANTE WAS ISSUED CHECK FOR THREE HUNDRED THREE

DOLLARS AND SEVEN NINE CENTS FOR BEACH RENTALS FROM FRANK T. HURLEY

ASSOCIATES, INC. REALATORS, APRIL LASTO SOURCE MADE AVAILABLE THAT

SOMEONE AT SUBJECT TAMPA RESIDENCE HAD BEEN IN RECEIPT OF LETTER FROM

MIKE MITNICK, GENERAL MANAGER, MOTEL DI LIDO, LINCOLN ROAD AND COLLINS

AVE O, MIAMI BEACH, DATED NOVEMBER ONE FOUR, NINETEEN SIX ONE SETTING

OUT THE HOTEL IS AWAITING QUOTE YOUR RETURN TO THE DI LIDO UNQUOTE

ALSO ENCLOSED APPARENTLY WAS CARD QUOTE SPECIAL RESERVATION REQUEST

FOR FORMER QUESTS UNQUOTE. TELEPHONE TOLLS FROM TAMPA THREE FOUR DASH

TWO SIX FOURSONE IN NAME OF JOE DIEZ, NOW LOCATED FOUR NINE FIVE ONE

PURITAN -AVE ETAMPA, SHOWS CALL TO MIAMI ON JULY SEVENTEEN NUMBER CA

ONE DASH ONE TIVE FOUR FIVE FOR FOUR MINUTES. CALL TO MIAMI ON SEPTEMBER

NINETEEN NUMBER SAME AS ABOVE. MIAMI CHECK DI LIDO HOTEL FOR SUBJECTS

LAST PRESENCE AND REGISTRATION THERE, DETERMINE SUBSCRIBER NUMBER CALLED

BY JOE DIEZ NOTING DIEZ IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN IN MIAMI WITH SUBJECT

AUGUST LAST AND DIEZ HAD CALLED THE LA SALLE APARTMENTS FROM THE

DREAM BARO

2-2781-314

CORR- LINE THREE SECOND O WORD SHLD READ AND LINE SIX THIRD WORD

SHL-D READ-SEVEN

END

AND ACK IN. ORDER

18 NOV 20 1961

64

NOV 24

3901

PM OK FBI WA NH

OK FBI MM TD

DocId:32292926 Page 2

---

