# docid-32404156

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N 53217 Date:

Đ6-22-2017

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10331-10026

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

FRANK S. MOST

ASST. GENERAL COUNSEL

MEMO: REQUEST FOR GUIDANCE ON PRIVACY ACT MATERIAL

FOUND IN THE JEK ASSASSINATION FILES

01/14/1993

: 2

SUBJECTS :

LEGISLATION

JEK ASSASSINATION

HIGHLIGHTING

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPEF

LASSTFTCATION • CONFIDENTIAI

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/23/03

COMMENTS : JFK-M-16 : F2 : 2000.02.08.08:21:31: 500054

[R]. - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10026

HW 53217

DocId: 32404156

Page 1

---

## Page 2

C/HRC

CONFTDENTIAL

14 January 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCES:

Robert J. Eatinger, JI.

Assistant General Counsel

Litigation Division,

OGC

Frank S. Most

Historical Review Group

Center for the

• Study of Intelligence

Reguest for Guidance on Privacy Act Material

found in the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Files

A.

S 3006 - The John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Act of 1992

B. HR 70-14, 21 April 1992

C. OGC Memo of 14 December 1992 on

Declassification Guidelines for JFK

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992

In reviewing Box 9, Folder 74, of the JFK

Assassination files

there are documents pertaining to Privacy

Act cases on the following individuals:

Edward Ivan Arthur - 3 pages

Edward

Browder - 3 pages

John W. Donovan - 6 pages

William Bernard Harvey - 2 pages

Michael J. McLaney - 4 pages

Gordon D. Novel - ll pages

Harold Weisberg - 18 pages

2. Our reading of the JFK legislation, SEC. 6. (3),

suggests that the argument for withholding on privacy grounds

must be very strong.

We would appreciate your guidance on this

matter based on the attached samples.

Do we deny the attached

information involving Privacy Act requests or are we obligated

to release the unclassified portions of these documents under

the JFK Assassination Act?

The material highlighted in yellow

is the material we propose to delete should these documents be

judged releasable. If there is additional information that

should be deleted, please bracket it in red.

"Frank S. MOs

Attachments as cited above

CC: 0/DCI/IRO

CONDFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ATTACHMENTS

HH 53217 DocId:32404156 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CSI/HRG/O/EXDIR/KMP

14 Jan 1993

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee, w/a

1 - 0/DCI/IRO, w/a

1 - C/HRG

1

- HRG/Chrono

1

- JFK Assassination file - Box 9

• folder 74

1

- FSM

1 - KMP

1

- JSC

HRG #496

53217

DocId: 32404156 Page

---

