# docid-32329042

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90084-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-183815-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SEE TITLE

FROM:

LO

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

10/02/1968

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32329042 Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: *14-14-2017

"X"

NEDENTIAL

Our Ref

*2 October

3/B',68

11, 968.

Laureano Fernando

BATISTA Y Falla

and wife

SECRET

Hirkel

MM

(Enel

VANised

10

DoR: 32329042 Page 2

In connection with the visa application

for the Bahamas,

we recently asked for

a name check

on the above-named.

In reply

you kindly supplied me

with a report, reference 105-16702 from your Miami

Florida offige, dated August

5D1968, captioned

"Adela Maria BATISTA nee de la Campay de la TORRE)

Internal Security - Cuba".

105-183815

In the sixth paragraph on the second page

of this report, reference is made to Laureno BATISTA

having been"spotted off Racoon Cay, Bahamas on

20 January,

1964 as

a result of which the British

97-16110

CARE

frigate H.M.S. Londonderry was sent to intercept him.

3.

The Bahamas Special Branch is unable to trace

any record of this incident having led to BATISTA's

arrest, which was how we had interpreted the implication

of this paragraph.

We should be very grateful to know

whether this is a correct implication and if any further

particulars of this incident are available.

3.

The importance of this enquiry to the Bahamas

Special Branch is that they wish to be in a postion to

warn BATISTA and his wife that their involvement with

anti-CASTRO activities is known to the authorities and that

aney must not engage e

they must not engage in such activities while they are in

the Bahamas.

If there is evidence of BATISTAS arrest in'

1964 in any Bahamian records they would of course like to

track it down so that this can be used as the basis of

such a warning.

4.

If BATISTA was not in fact arrested as a result

of the attempt to intercept him by H.M.S. Londonderry,

and

the only information about BATISTA's anti-CASTRO activities

is that which they have received from you, then the question

would arise whether you would be prepared

to allow the

Bahamas Police to use your information to the very limited

extent described above, that is in warning the BATISTASS

not to engage in political

activity while in the Bahamas.

4-8-94

Classified hy 5p8 mAcHise

RED-34

Declassify on:

DADR JENL

MI-5

0073

1968

MCТ-33

"as i it"

1105-183815

FINAL SECRET

•пот r 19A8

4/1

DED COPY FILED IN

---

