# docid-32187641

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JIN Assassinauon system

Identification Form

Date:

3/ LS/ ZUI

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10246-10351

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

89-43-9408

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

SEE FBI 62-109060-7110

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/20/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32187641 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F, Kean

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRET

1/18/74

AT, BERN (62-183) (P)

ALI.

CONTAINER

GEORCE W. HERALD

MISCELLANEOUS-INFO CONCERNING

HENC

CLASSIRED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWA

OTHERWISE

On 1/4/74, HANS-PETER WYSSMANN of the Swiss Federal Police

Division, furnished the 11/21, 28 and 12/5/73 jesues of theS

wiss German-lanquage weekly newspapery

"Die Weltwoche k

which contained a series of articles over subject's by-line

These articles were entitled, "Ten Years Afterward: The

Kennedy Murder in the light of Watergate. A new anatomy

of the crime of Dallas."

"Die Weltwoche" has the reputation of having seen better days,

and of tending toward sensationalism at present.

• The articles make allegations

as follows:

1.

The Watergate scandal has shown that certain American

politicians are capable of any crime.

Therefore, the

contention that OSWALD was the sole murderer of Pres.

KENNEDY finds less credence than

ever.

2.

The film, "Executive Action" seeks to prove that Pres.

KENNEDY was the fictim of a right radical conspiracy.

3.

Pres. KENNEDY's body was the subject of a deficient

examination by an unqualified physician.

4.

The fact that Pres. KENNEDY intended to reduce the

American engagement in South Vietnam is the real

reason for his assassination.

5.

The investigation was restricted to proving the

sole guilt of OSWALD, because otherwise it would

have taken too muci time and money. 5-13-93

Bureau

- Foreign Liaison

Classified by 803 RaD/geL

-Dallas (Info)

declassily, on:

2 =

Bern (62-183; 62-43)

AlL bUTTP/ pER

OADB74) 89-13-9408

HDG: IM

(6)

PI PRIUR REVEASE

•I SEARCRED_

_INDEXED

FEB - 11974

SECRET

FEl - DALLAS

Similing 1p

DocId: 32187641 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the JourT. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711050

DATE: 11-14-2017

d'..

BER 62-183

SECRET

WECHT, Director of the Institute

for rodensic Medicine in Pitesburgh: Detéctive THOMAS BUCHANAN,

JONES, JR.T

ROLAND MEN! French radio director MARGARIN EJELD, historian;

a lawyec who worked for the Warren Commission?

unidentified by

the author; PETER D. SCOTT, history professor, do not accept

findings of the warren Conmission, according to HERALD.

SCHLESTIGAR

, GEORGE NASH,

It is requested that the Bureau

summary of any

information in their files bearing on the

reputation and

reliability of HERALD, so that sources in

Austria and

Switzerland may be informed if any inquiries are received.

SECRET.

89-43-940811

DocId: 32187641

Page 3

---

