# docid-32338677

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10095

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-263

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

09/14/1960

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HW 54460

28

DocId: 32338677

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

HUNTEN STATES COLLINENT CONFENTIAL

•Memorandum

of

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-370750)

SaC, LOS ANCES (100-22198)

SUBJECT:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

IS-C

00: LA

DECLASSIFIED BY SolS- SEL

ON

0-7-75

Re Bureau letter to Office of Security, Depart-

ment of state, dated 8/11/60, regarding the

possibility of travel by LAWSON outside the

United States.

• on 9/6/60, LA 3402-s reported that during a

personal contact with LAWSON the day before, he indicated

that nothing definite had been decided about his possible

trip to Cuba as guest of the Cuban F1lm Institute. LAWSON

said that in any event he would not be able to leave before

the middle of October; that he is scheduled to leave

Los Angeles in about two weeks on a lecture tour which

will

. take him to San Francisco, Portland and Seattle.

His wife SUE will

80 with him.

LAWSON indicated to

informant that he would much rather

go to Europe than

to Cuba; and that if he did, he would seeenough to form

the basis for a series of lectures that would last all

'Winter when he got back; however, he did not indicate any

definite plans whatever regarding a European trip!

in contact with LAWSON

again; and on this occasion, informant learned that LAWSON

(will leave on 10/7/60 on a speaking trip to San Francisco,

Portland and Seattle. At Portland, he will lecture on

playwriting at Reed College. He will return to los Angeles

about 10/15/60.

(aU)

DATE:

September 14, 1960

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS UNCAASSIFIED

DATE 4.25:70 8Y9145 decea

91 00-370750-263

Declassify on: DADR

Bureau

- Washington Field Office

-

San Francisco

Portland

Seattle

3

- Los Angeles

EX 109

8

SEP 19 1960

1

MMB: GAM

'(10)

- 100-21198)

-

100-29552 (S. LAWSON)

-

100-8864) (COLE)

27-60

lal

CONPIDENTIAL®

PRONTROL

HH 54460 DocId: 32338677

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFISENTIAL

LA 100-21198

It is noted that Seattle advised by airtel dated

8/16/60 that at seattle, LAWSON will probably be sponsored

by the Washington Cultural CO-OP Association.

lAst

During his rest contact

with LAWSON, LA 3402-S

received a definite impression that LAWSONhas coaled

considerably toward the trip to Cuba. LAWSON Indicated

that the cuban spokesmen do not really have much to offer there,

and he again stated he would much rather go to Europe instead. (oU

In regard to the possibility of a European trip

by LAWSON, Informants have

developed nothing concrete as

yet..

In this connection, however, the following information

received from IA 3932-S on 7/1/60, may be the basis for

LAWSON'& consideration

time in the future.

Y puropean trip at an unspecifled

Council of the Professional-Cultural Section, Communist

Party (CP), Los Angeles on 6/21/60.

Part of the business

of that meeting was a discussion concerning the possibillty

that section council members JOHN H. LAWSON and LESTER

COLE (Bureau file 100-2230) were giving considerable thought

to spending sometime in eastern Europe.

Apparently this

stemmed from the fact that Mrs. JEAN PESTANA, Attorney

and member of the Section Council, (Bureau file 100-389985)

was then visiting in eastern Europe and had written back

that the Communists in Czechoslovakia were interested in

having intellectual Communists from other countries visit

Czechoslovakia; that there agears to be a considerable

difference between the attitude of the Russian Communists

and that of the Czechoslovakian Communists toward outside

intellectuals; that where as the Russians feel Communists

should work in their own countries

Feel there is geet need interest te

in czechoslovakia at the present time and therefore welcome

such people, in Prague. yU

Both LAWSON and COLE indicated that they have

good connections in Czechoslovakia. Both indicated their

Good on to bond one to orably a ear there 1r 4).

CONFIGENTIAL

- 2

HH 54460 DooId:32338677 Page 3

---

