# docid-32362290

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

104-10120-10647

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: CIA

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:WW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

DATE

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: SPECIAL PROJECT SECRECY AGREEMENT

03/05/1975

2

SUBJECTS : LUCE,

CLARE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

: 02/21/98

COMMENTS : JFK43 : F38 : 1998.02.21.11:15:41:153109

====--

(RJ

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10120-10647

HH 53294

DocId: 32362290

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

(When Filled In)

SPECIAL PROJECT SECRECY AGREEMENT

I acknowledge that I have been indoctrinated in the Project identified below and thus

have received highly classified information relating to United States intelligence collection

activities. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling of such in-

formation could

could seriously art the

seriously affect the national defense and that the transmission or revelation

of such information to unauthorized persons could subject me to prosecution under the Es-

pionage Laws (Title 18, USCA, Sections 793 and 794).

I have been informed that approval for access to Project information may only be granted

by Project Headquarters.

I have also been informed that extraordinary security measures

and controls have been

established to protect Project information and that access to such

information is restricted to those who "must know" based upon their present position or func-

tional use.

I agree to advise appropriate authorities of any change in my position or func-

tion and will execute a Termination Secrecy Agreement upon notification that such is re-

quired.

I realize that a briefing of this scope and depth, which identifies sponsorship, reveals

codewords, and admits to the ultimate intelligence application of the Project, is given only

to those individuals who have been specifically approved for the Project identified below at

the highest level and that this type information may not be divulged to individuals with lesser

levels of access.

I am aware that travel to certain hazardous or denied areas of the world such as the

USSR, Communist China, and Sino-Soviet satellite areas may constitute an unacceptable se-

curity risk and I agree, until formally relieved of this requirement, to request authorization

from Project Headquarters prior to undertaking such travel.

Having reviewed the above security requirements, I pledge that l will never publish or

reveal, by any means, classified project information to unauthorized persons. Along with

this pledge I recognize and accept the fact that I have a personal and individual responsi-

bility for the protection of all such information in my possession no matter where generated

nor how acquired and agree to abide by the security requirements and regulations estab-

lished for the Project.

MPDET CL. BY: 007€22

53294

8 - 73.

2441 48579065

PREVIO

DooId: 32362290 Page 2

SECRET

(12)

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(When, Filled In)

169102

I understand that no change in my employment status or relationship with the United

States Government will relieve me of my obligation under this Agreement.

I have been advised of the procedures to follow in order to determine the identity of

individuals who have been approved for access to this Project, the current estimate of hazard

involved in travel to a foreign area or to resolve any other question which may arise under

this Agreement.

PROJECTS*

ZODIAC, MATADOR, PICCOLO, ROBEGANY TOBOGGAN, BOTANIST

ACROSTIC

NAME OF WITNESS (Type. or Print)

Robert E, Burgener

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

Solent Butynes

III

PHASE

SOCIAL SECURITY#

064-18-3062

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

NAME (Type or Print)

Claire Booth Luce

SIGNATURE

NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION

White House:"

Inarch 5,1975

*The signator should place his initials after each Project name.

Names of projects administratively changed per Mr. Jerry Jennings

Security Officer National Security Council.

-SECRET

HH 53294 - Doctd:

4220

---

