# docid-32404031

## Page 1

Date: 05/19/00

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10330-10044

RECORD SERIES

: ARRB-CIA, 1995

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

: CHIEF,

OFFICE OF CENTRAL COVER

TO : JFK ASSASS RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

TITLE : MEMO: PROPOSED CIA NAME RELEASE

DATE

: 12/07/95

PAGES

:. 5+1

SUBJECTS

: NAME RELEASES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED

WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/03/00

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JEK-M-15:2 2000.02.03.13:02:59: 780054:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

(R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

AW 55157

DocId:32404031

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

OCC-95-149

07 DEC 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: JFK Assassination Records Review Board

VIA:

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Associate Deputy Director for Operations/Human

Resources and Programs

FROM:

Chief, Office of Central Cover

SUBJECT:

Proposed CIA Name Release

JFK ACt 6 (1)(A

JEK Act 6

(1) (B

1.

The Agency strongly objects to the release of names of

individuals presently under cover, whether active employees or

separated employees. As described below, this action would

breach Agency commitments to these individuals who agreed to work

under cover in addition to breaching our obligations to the cover

providers.

2. Employees sign a secrecy agreement (Attachment A) upon

entering on duty with the Agency. This agreement pledges the

employee's secrecy to information which is classified and has not

been publicly acknowledged by the Agency and requires the

employee to protect such information from unauthorized

disclosure.

This secrecy agreement, as long as it remains in

force by mutual agreement, obliges CIA to protect the identities

of Agency employees, our cover providers and covert activities.

3. Because this secrecy agreement creates a moral as well

as legal bond between the Agency and the employee, it is Agency

he gene

policy to protect the names of former employees who have

separated under cover unless the Agency and the employee mutually

agree to remove the cover.

Identifying as CIA those employees

who are mandated by the Agency to use a cover story, i.e.,

for their entire

Agency career as well as into their years after separation from

the Agency, jeopardizes:

• the personal safety of former employees:

WARNING NOTICE

INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

OR METHODS INVOLVED

CL 0489932

CL REASON: 1.5 (c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: COV 2-87

SECRET

HH 55157 DooId:32404031 Page 2

---

## Page 3

AJEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B).

SECRET

SUBJECT:

Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

• the second careers of former employees:

• the cover and identity of other employees who worked

with the covert employee whose name is released as

CIA; and,

• the protection of sources and methods (what

individual would agree to a clandestine relationship

with American intelligence knowing the secret

association would become public knowledge?) .

4. Examples of how identifying covert employees as CIA will

affect individuals follows:

• Mr.

retired under

cover and is currently working

Revealing his name would damage his relationship

with his current employer, his position with the

firm and would be awkward at best regarding the host

countries. Attachment B isl

acknowledgement that he was aware he would be denied

as a CIA employee and Attachment C is his signed

• Attachment D is a signed ackowledgement from MI.

John Whitten who retired under cover in 1970 which

shows that he was aware that he would be denied as

an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency from

the date he entered on duty through the date of his

departure.

Attachment E is a personal letter

received from Mr. Whitten after he was notified that

his name might be released in connection with

declassification of CIA documents. Attachment F is

We nott chie sis ed seen ee agreement. it sheuld

be noted that Mr. Whitten resides in

• Attachment G is a Summary of Agency Employment (SAE)

written by MI.l

and approved by the

Agency

Attachment H is a certification by Mr.

that he will abide by what is contained in

his SAE and understands disclosure of other

information would be in violation of his secrecy

2

SECRET

1N J5157 D0010:32404031 Page 3

---

## Page 4

¿JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6

(1) (B)

SEERST

SUBJECT: Memo to JEK Assassination Records Review Board

agreement. Attachment I is KI-

signed

secrecy estees it It should be noted that Mr.

resides in

5.

Our relationship with cover providers would be

jeopardized if it became publicly known that they were providing

cover to CIA employees. The

could very well

raise objections to our future use of

cover. Of increasing

importance to the Agency at this time is the critical use of

private sector (nonofficial) cover providers.

The private sector

would no doubt drop contact and avoid future dealings with us if

we reveal a covert relationship. Identifying covert

relationships with cover providers would paralyze Agency

operations which in turn could severely damage national security.

In addition, in the past it has exposed CIA to legal liabilities

and substantial monetary damages.

6.

Headquarters Regulation (HR) 240-1 is the Agency's

regulation on cover.

It states that "cover is required for all

Agency operations, activities and installations abroad, including

personnel in PCS or TDY status."

HR 240-2, the Agency's

regulation on cover after separation, states that "the

determination that an employee will retain all or a part of his

or her cover after separation from the Agency will be based upon

the judgment that separation in an overt status could result in

damage to the national security by compromising intelligence

sources, methods, activities, and/or information, or cause harm

to foreign relations. This determination will be made on a case-

by-case basis." Please note that

7.

Release of names of former employees who separated under

cover will make the entire Agency cover program vulnerable and

detract from our continuing efforts to enhance cover and conduct

sometimes dangerous activities necessary to carry out the

Agency's mission.

We can accept the purpose of the JFK

Assassination Records Review Act to declassify documents for

public consumption; however, we submit that the release of true

names of former Agency employees adds no value to the documents

in addition to risking physical harm to these individuals from

our public detractors. We propose and emphatically encourage

that pseudonyms, aliases or generic job descriptions such as desk

officer be used in place of true names which would not diminish

the impact of the documents.

3

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId: 32404031 Page 4

---

## Page 5

AJEK Act 6 (1)(A)

JFK Act

6 (1) (B)

SECRET

SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

8. After your review and consideration of the above

information, we would appreciate notification of your final

decision prior to taking any action.

Attachments:

As stated above

CONCUR :

8 Dec'95

Date

Associate Deputy Director for

Operations/ Human Resoyrces

and Programs

• Associate Deputy Director for

Operations

8 XI95

Date

4

-SECRET

55157

DocId: 32404031

Page 5

---

## Page 6

.....

.. ...

SECRET

SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

DC/OCC/OSG

ae/37076 (6 Dec 95)

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - JFK Assassination Records Review Board

1

- IMS/HRS

1

- ADDO

1

- ADDO/HRP

- DDO Secretariat

- DO/ IRO

- OGC/LD -

- OCC Chron

1

- OCC/OSG Chron

1 - OCC/OSG File 785-120-034

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6

(1) (B).

5

-SECRET

, HH 55157

DocId: 32404031

Page 6

---

