# docid-32289108

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10200-10384

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-165503-25

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/25/1967

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

03/16/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, NOTE

NW 45701 DocId: 32289108 Page 1

---

## Page 2

09

ALL INFURMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Deci

MAILED 9

₫ 1 1967

MAY

COMM-FBI

Conti

ential

SECRET

J..

Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

4-12-94

Director, FBI

Classied to Sf8-Muunu

Declassify on: QADlJA

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, and others

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP

IN MEXICAN PORT,

POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA:

1

May 31, 1967

-

NE.

Wannall

= Mr. Nasca

CLASSIFIED: AND

EXTENDED BY

SP3 TекleнkN.2н/м

REASON Y

FCIM, IL

X.+.3..

DATE OF M

DECLASSIFICATION

5/11/92

Reference is made to our previous communications

do i a to 1a, thron transult to unbe of photograpas

dated May

depicting

recovery of the buried explosives by Mexican #

authorities

On May

nished the following

35, 1967, our repres Catative in Mexico fur-

information:

The explosives recovered from the burial place in the

State of

Tamaulipas, Mexico, are in the custody of the Mexican

Army in Mexico City.

The possibility of having the explosives

presented at a

trial within the United States together with

a competent witness fron the Direccion Federal de Seguridad

(Federal Security Police.

to the Mexican Government.

DFS)

or the Army has been proposed

On May 25, 1967,

of the DFS,

and Rafael Hernandez Ochoa, Under Secretary of

Government

(Interior), advised that no decision has been

reached as the matter is very sensitive politically.

There

is a feeling that the DES should not be compromised

in this

matter even though they are anxious to see the subjects

prosecuted.

While it might be possible for Mexican Army

demolition experts to testify,

this also poses political

problems which require further thought.

OTHER

4 Foreign

AGENIG

Our representative noted that the final decisiong

in this matter may rest with the presidency. J(u)

APPROPRIATE

AND ITED

Tolson

This is for your information and you will

be kept

DeLoach .

Mohr

advised of developments.

*: :

1: 4

Wick

Casper

REG- 52

32

classitied by 304

Callahan

Contad

105-165503 25/ma

Exempt/sTom GoS Categoisy

Felt

Gale

2 - Miami

Rosen

2 - Mexico

Sullivan

City

Tavel

Trotter

(Route Through

Tele. Ro

Holmes

J LAN: 5s 196

Foreign Liaison, Unit

for

Review)

Gandy

(10DL ROOMI

TELETYPE UNIT LE

MAIL ROOM I

VINAScA

F Coxeldential

MIAMI

MEXICO CITY PAGE THO Chi

105-165503-29

UHN

SERE NOTETPAGE TWO

NW 45701 DocId: 32289108

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DECODEDCOPY

SECRET

antial

xXX CABLEGRAM

I RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr —

Wick -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Sulli

Tave

Trottif

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• AIRGRAM

STATE 04

URGENT 525-67

TO DIRECTOR (105-965503)

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 289

APPRO

AND FT.FID

ADVISER

AGENeTE glassified

Exemot

frni

TING

Date of Decla

у дж

Indefinate

ALI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE IN TS UNCTASSIFIED

E. D7X WABRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CLASSIEIED AND

EXTENDED

REASON

FCIM, II,

DATE OF REV

FOR

DECLASSIFICATION.

5. 25/9201

INTERNAL SECURITY:

FRANK ANGELS

EGORINI, AKA; ET ALO

- CUBA,

AIM - CÜBA.

Classified

in

Declassily on:

REBUAIRTEL

MAY 9 LAST.

Declassif

an: OADR 6,

18.

THIS OFFICE HAS DETERMINED THAT EXPLOSIVES RECOVERED:

FROM BURIAL PLACE IN STATE OF TAMAULIPAS, MEXICO, ARE IN THE

CUSTODY OF THE MEXICAN ARMY AT MEXICO CITY. THE POSSIBILITY

OF HAVING THE

EXPLOSIVES PRESENTED AT A TRIAL WITHIN THE

UNITED STATES (TOGETHER WITH À COMPETENT WITNESS FROM THE

DIRECCION FEDERAL DE SEGURIDAD (DFS = FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE)

THE ARMY HAS BEEN PROPOSED TO THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT

ON MAY 25 INSTANT,

DIRECTOR, BOTHER A Foreign

DES, AND RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA, UNDERSECRETARY OF GOVERAMENT

(INTERIOR) ADVISED THAT NO DECISION HAS BEEN REACHED AS THE

OFFICES

MATTER IS VERY SENSITIVE POLITICALLY THERE IS A FEELING

•THAT THE DFS SHOULD NOT BE COMPROMISED IN THIS

- MALTER EVEN

ДАє грареи.

DATE

0 40 5729168

1a5=

1558

Van.

73167

MR DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

JUN

1967

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

ATiAT SECRET

-25

NW 45701 DocId: 32289108 Page 3

---

## Page 4

1-3° (lev. 1-27-66)

b

a AIRGRAM

xx CABLEGRAM

DECODED COPY

Conf)

idential

SECRETI

RADIO

TELETYPE

PAGE 2 FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 289

THOUGH THEY ARE ANXIOUS TO SEE SUBJECTS PROSECUTED. WHILE IT

MIGHT BE POSSIBLE FOR THE MEXICAN ARMY DEMOLITION EXPERTS TO

TESTIFY, THIS ALSO POSES POLITICAL PROBLEMS THAT REQUIRE

FURTHER THOUGHT.

THIS OFFICE IS OF THE OPINION THE FINAL DECISION IN THIS

MATTER MAY REST WITH PRESIDENCY. DEVELOPMENTS WILL BE

FOLLOWED CLOSELY AND BUREAU KEPT ADVISED.

4(0)

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr —

Wick

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes:

Gandy -

RECEIVED: 9:48 PM JRL

14.3

CC. MR: SULLIVAN

"*:.

3RD CC MR. BRENNAN

Confidost lal

105-165503-25

pare intellino cola pred in the brue me sape irap be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is subbested that it be suitably

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32289108 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ler. 1-27-96) °

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COP Y SCRET

Conf gaential

SECRET

CABLEGRAM

TELETYPE

Tolson

De Loach

Mohr -

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Roon

Holmes

Gandy .

STATE 04

4-12:14

Classified

URGENT 5-25-67

Declassity on: OAUR

TO DIRECTOR (105-165503)

FROM/LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 289

#DE golore

Напп

Classified D

maclack

Declassify on: OADR 6/15/53

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, AKAS ET AL. IS - CULASSIEDANUBA

EXTENDED

REASON

1N019N

FCIM, TI

REBUAIRTEL MAY 9 LAST.

DATE OF REVIE

FUR

THIS OFFICE HAS DETERMINED THAT EXPLOFAVESS RECOVEI

RECOVERED

316129

5/25|92.

FROM BURIAL PLACE IN STATE OF TAMAULIPAS, MEXICO, ARE IN THE

CUSTODY OF THE MEXICAN ARMY AT MEXICO CITY. THE POSSIBILITY

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EKCEPT WERE SHOWN

OTHERWI SE

OF HAVING THE EXPLOSIVES PRESENTED AT A TRIAL WI THIN THE

UNITED STATES (TOGETHER WITH A COMPETENT WITNESS FROM THE

DIRECCION FEDERAL DE SEGURIDAD (DFS • FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE)

OR THE ARMY HAS BEEN PROPOSED TO THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT.

ON MAY 25 INSTANT,

DIRECTOR, OTHER 4 Foreign

DFS, AND RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA, UNDERSECRETARY OF GOVERNMENT

(INTERIOR) ADVISED THAT NO DECISION HAS BEEN REACHED AS THE

MATTER IS VERY SENSITIVE POLITICALLY.

THERE IS

ASEEELING ;

B0C.0

THAT THE DFS SHOULD NOT BE COMPROMISED IN THIS

MATTER EVEN

ER EVEN (C)

Let t6 AMB Gagly

ya se

1 na

→-/

1- MEX

UHN:

PROPRIATE AGENCIES

2040

& FIELD OFTACBS

5/31/61

Classified

Exempt from

GDS Category, l

ADVISED BY

Date of Declas.

fication Indefihate

SLIP (S) OF

DATE

040 by 11

paraphrased in order la protect the Bureau's cryptographie syor dent ini SECRET

Il the intelligence contained in the above metsase is to be deglemi

miated out side the Bureau, it Is Justested chat it be suitabls

105-165503-25

NW 45701 DocId: 32289108 Page 5

---

## Page 6

a:8°

Con? ic

antial

DECODED COP YSECRET

• AIRGRAM

XxCABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

PAGE 2 FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 289

THOUGH THEY ARE ANXIOUS TO SEE SUBJECTS PROSECUTED. WHILE IT

MIGHT BE POSSIBLE FOR THE MEXICAN ARMY DEMOLITION EXPERTS TO

TESTIFY, THIS ALSO POSES POLITICAL PROBLEMS THAT REQUIRE

FURTHER THOUGHT. (S)

THIS OFFICE IS OF THE OPINION THE FINAL DECISION IN THIS

MATTER MAY REST WITH PRESIDENCY,

DEVELOPMENTS WILL BE

FOLLOWED CLOSELY AND BUREAU KEPT ADVISED

Tolson

De Loach.

Mohi -

Wick -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sulfiel"

Tav;

Trotter

Tele.1foom

Holmed

Gandy

RECEIVED: 9:48 PM JRL

ORIG: MR. DELOACH FOR DIRECTOR

LErELAbE nuM

3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN

"GARIAED

the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitab

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system

Constantial SECRET: 105-165503-25

NW 45701 DocId: 32289108 Page 6

---

