# docid-32293757

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10212-10033

HQ

62-9-12-460

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45760 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/28/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMPLING, CONSPR, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45760

DocId: 32293757

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

FD-36; (Rov. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

10/28/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

ViaAIRTEL

AIR MALL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM:

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT:

OR IMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY. SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 10/21/63.

RE: JOHN W. CLARK

ITWI

(Dh 165-154)

On 10/21/63, CLARK, a known Dallas bookmaker, was

observed leaving his residence, 4700 Abbott Street, and visit

several business establishments in various locations in Dallas,

One of the stops was

at the D & J Tire Company,

located in the 2900 block of Live Oak Street. Information

from Dallas PD Indicates that this tire shop is operated by

DAN BIRCH, who is allegedly furnishing one of the betting lines

for the current football season.

3 Bureau

1-Dallas

(165-154)

I-Dallas

(165-148)

1-Dallas

(165-92)

I-Dallas

(162-1)

1-Da11aS

(162-95)

1-Dallas

(162-264)

1-Dallas

(165-150)

1-Dallas

(165-151)

WWISH

1-Dallas

(166-84): 07 6

1-Dallas

(156-102)

I-Dallas

(166-116)

1-Dallas

1166- 144)

I-Dallas

(137-13870

I-Dallas

(137-1445)

1-Dallas

(94=55A SUB)

IDL: nC

1187

REC 7,

62-9-12-459

X1105

12 OCT 30 1963

EN.83

ed..

espectal Agent in Charge.

Sent

Per

NW 45760 DocId:32293757 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 94-55A SUB

RE: LAWRENCE IRVIN PERKINS

ITWI

(DI 165- 148)

On 10/25/63, MR. HERB TAYLOR, Taylor Publishing Company,

was interviewed concerning his gambling with PERKINS.

TAYLOR

stated that during approximately the last year he has lost a

minimum of $30,000 to LAWRENCE PERKINS and RICHARD MELVIN and a

third party whom he believes was involved with PERKINS and MELVIN

by the name of BERT DOOLEY. TAYLOR related that his acqueintance

started with these individuals through MELVIN appearing at their

publishing company, stating that he was married to the third wife

of the late TOMMY. DORSEY and that he wanted to have a book pube

lished concerning TOMMY DORSEY'S life. TAYLOR related that a

friendship developed and he was subsequently drawn into poker

and gin games

with MELVIN. Approximately three months after

meeting MELVIN, BERT DOOLEY, who is on their Board of Directors,

introduced him to PERKINS who subsequently, in poker games,

obtained a minimum of $30,000 from TAYLOR.

TAYLOR advised that

he was not aware of the losses by the other "suckers" in this

game.

TAYLOR advised that he suspected that GEORGE OWENS and BILLY

RAY DAVIS (162-264) were involved in setting him up for PERKINS

and MeLVIN.

As reported in re airtel, OWENS was interviewed concerning

his part in PERKINS taking WILLIAM

PETREE in a gin game at the

Montmarte Club. It was subsequently learned that R. D. MATTHEWS,

local strong-arm man, was looking for OWENS concerning his talking

to the FBI.

RE: HENRY CLINTON WINFREY

IGA

(DL 162-95)

PHILIP STEPHENS BOSCO

ITWI

(DL 165-92):

On

and

who had taken the

before the Federal

Grand Jury

during an

earlier session

of

the Grand Jury, were taken before

the Judge where

attorney attacked the Judge's right to

grant immunity to the two

witnesses. The objection was overruled

and the two men were before the Grand Jury approximately two hours.

AUSA ROBERT WARD subsequently advised that they talked

concerning their own

but denied knowing

anything ofL

activities.

JEK Law 10(a)2

•2=

62-912-460

HH 45760 DocId:32293757 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNCODED

DI 94-55A-SÚB

RE: JOHN ELI STONE, ET AL

ITWI; ITAR - GAMBLING =

CONSPIRACY

(DL 166-116)

On 10/21/63, JOHN ELI STONE, his brother JAMES WOODROW STONE

and ISADORE MAX MILLER were indicted by the FGJ convened at Wichita

Federal Occupational Hagering Stamp.

Texas, on charges of operating as bookmakers without a

JOHN STONE was also indicted

on a

felony charge of ITWI.

JEK Act 6 (4)

RE: GARLAND POLLARD, aka.

ITWI

(DL 165-150)

On 10/16/63,

a fellow employee, that

Dallas telephone number LA 6-3419. On 10/21/63, DL 185-C-TE, advised

that BILLY RAY DAVIS had related to him that they were closing their

employee, that he knew 19.

PCI advised that he learned through

he knew bookmaking operation was in effect on

operation on the LA 8-0409 number and that bets would be now

accepted on LA 6-3419. It was ascertained that this number

was

connected on 10/19/63

4807 Denton Drive.

and listed to a JOE MASSEY, apartment 214,

RE: ALBERT MEADOWS, aka.

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DU 166-84)

On 10/23/63, AUSA ROBERT WARD, Dallas, advised that he

had been contacted by the attorney for ED VINCENT DRISCOLL,

indicating that DRISCOLL would plead guilty to the charges

him if he were not required to testify against MEADOWS. AUSA

against

advised that he contemplates letting DRISCOLL plead to the charges

against bim.

RE:

RUSSELL D. MATTHEWS

ILAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166-102)

LT. JACK REVILL, Special Services Bureau, Dallas PD,

advised that he has received reliable information that MATTHEWS is

being used by some of the Dallas bookmakers to force collection

from some of their customers.

DI 185-C-TE advised that on the night of 10/21/63, local

Dallas character named GLENN BURNETT had taken MATTHEWS to Misty's

Club and at the time he had picked MATTHEWS up, MATTHEWS was

carrying a

shotgun and pistol. According to the informant,

MATTHEWS

left Misty's with someone else and left the guns in BURNETT's car.

= 3=

NH 45760 DocId:32293757 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI 94-55A SUB

RE: BOBBIE JOE CHAPMAN

ITWI

(DL 165-151)

DI 185-C-TE advised that over the past two weekendse

CHAPHAN bas won over $17,000 booking on the football games.

advised

that one of the bets was for $3300 which he tried to

lay-off to BILLY RAY DAVIS, who had been picked up, however

CHAPMAN had won this bet.

RE: ALLEN MINTER, aka;

RICHARD MELVIN

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166-124)

On 10/22/63, DL 185-C-TE advised that MeLVIN is a partner of

BILLY RAY DAVIS in the bookmaking business for the current football

season.

Informant has previously advised that DAVIS uses MELVIN in gin

and poker games when he has a victim set up.

RE: GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

DALLAS DIVISION

(DL 162-1)

On 10/22/63, the Vice Squad, Dallas PD, raided Misty's

Club, a private club noted for its gambling activities and

several known Dallas gamblers were arrested. At the time of the

arrest the police confiscated $345 which was on the card table.

It is noted that the Dallas Office of the FBI had fur-

nished information to LT. JACK REVILI concerning the gambling

activities at Misty's.

On 10/23/63, the Vice Squad raided a private party at the

Cabana Motor Hotel after learning that a local Dallas gambler was

setting it up to take money from unsuspecting customers.

LT. REVILI,

Dallas PD, advised they arrested thirty-one individuals at the time

the party

was raided and charged a JOSEPH RONALD HORAWITZ with

operating a gambling house.

REVILL also advised that an EMIL ALLEN

KUBAT, 2424 Inwood Road, was arrested and they suspect that he is

the professional gambler at the party who was set up to "fleece"

the customers.

All of the above information was disseminated to IT.

JACK REVILI, Special Services Bureau, Dallas PD, except the new

telephone numbers of the Dallas bookmakers.

= 4=

HH 45760 DocId:32293757 Page 5

---

