# docid-32305976

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10289-10106

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4225-69

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

DOJ

FROM: WILKEY, MALCOLM R.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/26/1959

2

JFC, BONANNO, JOSEPH, TRIAL, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS :

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC MEMO

Docid: 32305976

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

111567107Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Mr. Belmont.

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

August 816, 1,959

TO : : Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

DATE:

Mr.

Tamm®

Prutter

MRW: WCH: gmi Mr. We Sullivan

123-51-4711

• Tele. Room.

Malcolm R. Wilkey, Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Mr. Holloman-

Miss Gandy...

SUBJECT:

United otates J

sonanno

et al.

S.D. N.Y. Cr. 159-35

3

Reference is made to your memoradum of July 20, dani.

which advises that interview reports of Charles Gorman,

Keating, Robert F. McGuinness and Paul J. Rennard cannot be

made available to the attorney in charge of the subject case

for the reason that their statements were made to the Bureau

in strictest confidence.

let-Wither

8=31*

It is contemplated that all four of these individuals

will be called as government witnesses in the captioned trial.

Gorman was Director of Public Safety in Buffalo and Keating was

a Representative of the New York State Watch Dog Committee.

- Together they interviewed defendants Magaddino and LaDuca and

1959

SAUG 27

named co-conspirator D'Agostino. The Magaddino interview is

set forth in the indictment as Overt Act 15. McGuinness can

- give testimony concerning defendant Scalish. Rennard has

- information concerning co-conspirators Medico and Bufalino.

As you indicated in your memorandum of July 20, the identity

of these individuals and the information they can give was

secured from sources other than the FBI.

Under the Jencks Act it may be necessary for the

Government to produce prior statements of these persons when.

they are called as trial witnesses.

To protect these witnesses

it would be most helpful if the prosecution could have the

information they furnished to the Bureau.

Therefore, it is requested that you re-contact these;

four persons, advise them of the fact that it is planned to

call them as government witnesses and see if under these circum-

stances they will not permit the information they furnished to

the Bureau to be transmitted for study by Departmental attorneys

in connection with the captioned trial.

REG 40

44269

-ÁUG 27 1959

5-9 AFt:

NEX 124

hit-NY

DocId: 32305976 Page 2

---

