# docid-32294396

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10213-10172

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-494

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/14/1962

' PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC AND REL, BKG, TAX MATTERS, RES, THP ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

_02/16/1999.

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45966 DocId:32294396 Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

o3 15 12-S5)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

TAMPA

Office of Origin

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

aka

Date

Investigative Period

3/14/62

2/24/62 - 3/13/62

Report made by

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

dmb

REFERENCE:

Y

Report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, dated 2/27/62, at Tampa.

- P -

ENCLOSURES

TO THE BUREAU:

Original and one copy (2) of letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants.

LEADS:

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILL.

Will maintain contact with confidential informants and highly

coufidential sources relative to any information they can furnish

01

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

92-2181-494

REC- 28

Approved

Copies made:

3 - Bureau (92-2781) fine gy

- USA, Miami

- Chicago

- Miami (92-88)

- New York

1,i

2

- TampA:(A2+)) C/lOTLiNE

^90

FBI

report'is locned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor

its contents are to be distributed outside

the agency to which loaned

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: OFFICE: 0 344750

NW 45966 DocId:32294396 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

3. Will follow with the USA recovery of $20,000 worth

of insurance relative to a fire at the Dream Bar,

which bar is in

a büilding owned by the SANTO TRAFFICANTE, SR. Estate.

4. Will conduct further inquiries of occupant of address

3010 42nd Street, Tampa, which may have some connection with

EMILY CUCCIO.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

INFORMANTS:

TP T-1

TP

T-2

is CS TP 51-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau;

TP

T-3

is TP 41-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau;

1s CG-6486-C*.

TP. T+4 18

whose identity is known to the Bureau;

TP T-5 1s

PET:

- PCI;

IP T-6 is NY 2712-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

Careful consideration has been given to sources concealed

in this report and T symbols have been utilized only in

those instances where identity must be concealed.

The records of the Central Bank of Tampa, as reflected in

this report, were made available to SA ROBERT C. SMITH by Mr.

ROBERT TINNARO, Vice-President.

OTHER 4

C*

COVER PAGE

NN 45966 DocId: 32294396 Page 3

---

