# docid-32340168

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90154-10197

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 45-10253-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/10/1963

PAGES:

118

SUBJECTS:

MICHAEL MCLANEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 INVOICE, 2 DECLARATION, MEMO, APPLICATION, LTR, LIST, RPT, PHOTOSTAT

COPY, CHARTER, PAMPHLET

v9.1

DocId: 32340168

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 411-14-2017

MM 45-969

Photographic coples of nine

shipping documents; Four

photographs of slot machine

shipping cases and contents;

One Photastat öf the Uniform

Time Charter for the vessel

"Wappen Von Hamburg"

LEADS

CHICAGO:

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS:

1.

At the Jennings Manufacturing Company will

determine if any slot machines have been ordered for

not nach

delivery aboard the "Wappen Von Hamburg"

', aka "Empress of

Bahamas'!

at Miami or Nassau, Bahamas,

2. Will determine 1f JOSEPH MANGONE, Miami,

Florida, 1s a representative of that company and will obtain

any background information regarding this individual which

may be available.

It is noted MANGONE 1s a target for

development under the informant program in the Miami

Division

Will, 1f possible, examine any correspondence

between JOSEPH MANGONE and this

company regarding slot machines

on the 'Empress of Bahamas'

NEW YORK:

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK:

Will conduct credit, criminal and indices checks

on HAROLD DERBER, 519 West 121st Street, New York, and

REHAVAM S. ADIEL,

aka Ray S. Adiel, a graduate of Columbia

University, in an attempt to develop background information

regarding these individuals.

WASHINGTON FIELD:

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.

1. Will interview NEAL KELLY, 1024 Vermont Avenue,

- B-

- COVER PAGE -

45-10253-11

DocId: 32340168 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 45-969

7. Will interview MORRIS LANSBURG, Deauville

Hotel,

regarding his knowledge of plans for gambling

aboard the "Empress of Bahamas" and his payment for slot

machines made at Las Vegas,

Nevada, on November 30, 1962.

8. Will interview LEO ROBBINS, Atlantic Cruise

Lines regarding his knowledge of plans for gambling aboard

the

"Empress" of Bahamas" or other vessels operating out of

the Miami area.

9. Will maintain contact with Departmental

Attorneys, Miami, for a prosecutive opinion in this case.

AT NASSAU BAHAMAS:

1. Through contact with appropriate Bahamian

authorities will ascertain from J. LOWE,

Assistant

Controller of Customs, the details of LOWE's Inspection of

slot machines and documents aboard the "Wappen Von Hamburg"

on 12/4 - 5/62, and LOWE's knowledge of any proposed

gambling ventures involving this vessel or other vessels

from the Miami area:

2. In a similar manner, will ascertain from

JANET SANSO, General Manager, Empress Lines, Ltd., her

knowledge of slot machines or other plans for gambling

aboard the

"Empress of Bahamas"

ADMINISTRATIVE

In view of the dual character of CHS and ITGD,

three copies of this report are furnished to the Bureau

that one can be furnished to the Department of Justice.

The extended period in this report was necessary

to include investigation relating to this matter previously

conducted in Miami file 92-404, captioned

"JOSEPH ANTHONY

INDELICATO, aka, AR".

The following information was obtained from

confidential informants.

_D ÷

- COVER PAGE -

45-10253-11

DocId: 32340168 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 45-969

On October 19, 1962, MM 509-C advised SA

ROBERT F. FETZNER that for the first time since the

"Calypso Liner" has been operäting, he noticed it has

been a topic of conversation with some of the boys.

"No one

Individual

or group of individuals appear to be deeply

interested in it as yet, but comment has been going around

that gambling games

are

about to be set up, meaning games

such as take place in the gambling casinos.

"RUBY STRAUSS

seemed to be the one who appeared more interested in

gambling on ships than anyone else.

It appeared as if

"boys" might be feeling around to see if they can

get in on something like this for the coming winter

season.

DUPUY, on October 25, 1962,

JOSEPH ANTHONY INDELICATO and RUBY STRAUSS had

been at a

marina near Alton Road and Me Arthur Causeway trying to

make arrangements to dock a 203 foot vessel.

It was the informant's

opinion that the vessel

was to be utilized as

a gambling ship as RUBY STRAUSS had

previously said he was going to operate a gambling ship

during the coming winter season.

STRAUSS had also previously said he was going to

be backed by JoE INdELICAto.

The informant said that he is not sure what boat

STRAUSS and INDELICATO would use but it was thought to be

, not further

1dentified®

On November 16, 1962, this informant advised

SA PAUL A. SCRANTON that

on October 20, 1962, RUBY STRAUSS

had mentioned the figure of $1,000.00 per month as the

docking fee that they would be willing to pay for dockage

of this 203 foot vessel.

Informant further advised on

this date that he believes that RUBY STRAUSS and JOE

INDELICATO made some contact with the ROBBINS brothers of

the Atlantic Steamship Lines in Miami regarding some

vessel.

On December 7, 1962, PCI FRANK A. CASE advised

-E-

- COVER PAGE -

45-10253-11

DocId: 32340168 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM. 45-969

SA DUPUY that he had learned of no new developments on

the proposed gambling ship in which RUBY STRAUSS and

JOE INDELICATO were interested.

On November 13, 1962,

PCI DORIS M. MC CONNELI

advised SA ROBERT F. FETZNER that in an effort to learn

if anyone or group in the area are interested in gambling

ships

or if any new boats are

going to be launched to

cruise to Bimini or the Bahama Islands,

she stated her

inquiries revealed that the "Empress of Bahamas" sails

from Pier 3, Miami and goes to Nassau and the Bahama

Islands.

She was told the ship leaves Miami on Tuesday,

Thursday and Saturday and returns here Monday, Wednesday

and Friday.

She learned it was built at Hamburg, Germany;

1s operated by the Empress of Bahama Travel Corporation,

where JACK HOLTSBERG is the General Manager.

luxury

cruise ship; will accommodate 1700 passengers; acts

as a hotel for those in a foreign port and has

all extremely

modern equipment.

"She understood the President 1s RAY

ADIEL, formerly from Tel Aviv:

Nöthing was mentioned by

her source which gave any indications

"that any hoodlums

had a hold here or that it was to be considered as a

gambling ship.

On December 3, 1962, BERNARD F. GALLAGHER, United

States Customs Agent, Supervising Customs Agents office,

Miami, furnished SA PAUL A. SCRANTON with a copy of a letter

which

had been furnished in confidence by Mr. E. H. MC KINNEY,

Comptroller of customs, Nassau, Bahamas.

This letter was

written by EARL J. F. STEIN, 214 Southwest lst Avenue,

Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. It is dated November 20, 1962, and

reads as follows:

"Dear Mr. MC KINNEY

"With reference to the ÖRANGE STAR, - the

equipment was transferred from the BAHAMA STAR,

presumably some from the hold, and some from

above.

"The ORANGE STAR has not commenced 1ts

REVIEWED BY

proposed run yet and 1s at Pier 2, In Miami.

SUNK TASK FORCE

ON

/26/98 cal

=F=

T7 MELBAGE IN FULL

- COVER PAGE =

77

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

45-10253-11

DocId: 32340168 Page 5

---

