# docid-32309723

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

....

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10300-10089

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-29-604

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/07/1955

50

NRO, ASSOC, HOODLUMS, POLIT TIES, OC, POLICE,

GAMBLING, CRIM ACT, HANGOUTS, BIRGE GANG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

05/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

+-

.. ..:

H4 45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

Office

UNITED

R

57 31955

prector,

FBI

SAC, Miami (62-1273)

SUBJE

GIIF

OTANI DIVISION

66384

GENERAl INVEStIGatIUE IntEllIGENCE pO FIlE

Miami

Transmitted herewith are four copies of the semi-

annual GIIF report of this division covering the period fron

December

1, 1954, to June 1, 1955.

It is suscested that the fourth copy of this report

inasmuch

as fary dred to and eat teache at are early paych

Havana, Cuba, and Miami,

Florida.

*CoN:mlm

Eroiosures

2end

stacks

57/1

Cal str i 5-8-55

31-55-

Турів І сард 8 ру А.

INDEXED-17

215-5590

Copy A disting

1(2/30/59

miD.

RECORDED -

62-75147-29-604

8 JUN

8 1955

-

-р 44

1243-51,205

ВиДЕ

0/ 144-114, 190,191

20-1021,27, 2538,3242,44.42, 64-79

+108-107, 121 179 144-185-187-189

15, 18.39, 4438 86 69656663190

191198 299

H60

ALI. INFORM

#MON

959°

HW 45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 2

---

## Page 3

r.

CONPADENTIAL

BWG: efs

MM 62-1273

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE FILE

BROWARD COUNTY, FLORIDA

December 1, 1954

to

June Is

1955

Information compiled herein relating to the

enforcement officers and other sources during official

investigations.

• ORGANIZED GANGS

Investigation and contact with informants and

sources. of information has failed to give any indication

that there are any organized gangs in Broward County.

MM 322-C advised on January 24, 1955, that MEYER

LANSKY, FBI Number 791783, of the Eastern Criminal Syndicate,

was in Hollywood during the week prior to January 24, 1955,

and was staying at the Toscanny Motel on Ocean Boulevard,

South of Hollywood.

of his brother JACK LANSKY who maintains a residence in

Hollywood.

He stated that MEYER LANSKY recently purchased a

30 per cent interest in the Toscanny Motel for his son BARRY

LANSKY.

This informant has stated that JACK LANSKY has

repeatedly told him that he is no longer interested in getting

involved in any gambling setups in Florida, under the present

situation.

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKATEERS AND MOBSTERS

VINCENT FALO,

with aliases,

1248 Monroe Street,

Hollywood, Florida, FBI Number 854810.

An informant of the Miami Office advised on

February 14, 1955, that VINCENT ALO was at that time residing

in Hollywood, Florida.

Informant stated that ALO told him

+.

- 3=

CONADENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONF MENTIAL

MM 62-1273

FLA

MM 322-C advised on January 24, 1955, that FRANK

is a part owner of the Tuscanny Motel, in

Hollywood; in

partnership with MEYER LANSKY.

Informant stated that he does

not believe that FRANk will attempt to start any gambling

at the Toscanny Motel this year because of LANSKY'S interest

in this motel.

He stated that LANSKY purchased his interest

in the motel for his son BARRY, and does not want

gambling

operating there.

JOSEPH FLAX, 1544 efferson Street, Hollywood,

Florida.

Chief PHIL THOMPSON, Hollywood Police Department,

advised on May 18, 1955, that

during the past winter season

FLAX was conducting a bookmaking operation from his office at

1544 Jefferson Street.

Florida, FBI#563019 Bo

DONALD JOSEPH GALATI, 826 North 26th Avenue, Hollywood,

Captain LESTER HOLT, NA, Fort Lauderdale Police

Department, advised on May 18, 1955, that GALATI is still the

*

owner of the Dollhouse on South Federal Highway in Fort Lauder- *

dale. HOLT stated that GALATI has not been active in book-

making activites in Fort Lauderdale since his arrest on a

bookmaking charge on February 14, 1954.

HOLT stated that

•GALATI was

acquited on the bookmaking charge in connection with

that arrest but stated that he was convicted on a charge of

frequenting a gambling house.

FBIH135771.

J.B: GATES, 5052 Pembroke Road, Hallandale, Florida;

CLAUDE TINDALL, Chief Criminal Députy, Broward

advised that GATES, a Negro, has

residents for a number of years.

operated the folate business in HalINDALl stated that CATES

works from a beer and wine tavern operated by him on NW 10th

Avenue,

done tell ale vital.

and has been arrested on numerous occasions

FBI#655579.

CLYDE/BROSS, 1619 Fletcher Street, Hollywood, Florida,

- 10 •

CONMDENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId:32309723 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONIEAINAL

MM 62-1273

Information was avalable as to GEBR'S background.

MEYER LANSKY, 903 Hollywood Boulevard, Hollywood,

Florida, FBI#791783.

• :

BM 322-C advised on January 24, 1955, that MEYER

LANSKY came to Hollywood, Florida, during the week of

January 24, 1955, and was staying at the Toscanny Motel on

probably eit fact

Informant speculated that LANSKY would

probably stay in Hollywood, at the motel, for the winter in

cent interest in this motel.

LEON FRANK, another part owner of the Toscanny Mötel would

like to

set up gambling operations in the motel but stated he

did not believe that FRANK would start any gambling activities

Inasmüch as LANSKY 1s opposed opposed to it.

In November, 1954, MM 322-C advised that MEYER LANSKY

left Hollywood, Florida, to

attend a meeting in New York City,

which meeting the ipformant belleved to be'a result of the

Averill Harrimanis succeasful contest for Governor of New York

The New York Office subsequently advised that informants"

NY 204-C,

NY207-6, and NY 163-6, were unable to substantiate or .

negate this information.

BU 283-C, Las Vegas Nevyady Ladyled that thea

1s the object of an

investigation by the Nevada

Las Vega state Tax Commission and for thia

reason MEYER and JACK' LANSKY and GEORGE SADLOW, all of whom

have undisclosed interests in the operation of the hotel, have

been avoiding Nevada to

interests inthe hotel-

keep from testifying concerning their

SADLOW has always represented the LANSKYS in this

operation although both MEYER and JACK visited the hotel on

three or four occasions each year; SADLOW has pushed his own

men in key positions in this operation, among them JERRY SHAD

as the day

"pit" boss; GEORGE-ROSEN, graveyard shift boss; and.

JACK" METLER, swingshift boss. Former prise fighter GENE

-BBLMONT is greeter at the hotel.

This informant thought that

oth LANSKYS

and SADLOW might dispose of their-interest in this

hotel if the Fax Commission sought then out.

014 -

CONROENTIAL

NH 45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONFIDEN AL

pIl 62-2273

• The New York Office has advised that MEYER LANSKY

and 6th Avenue,

New York City.

MICHARE LUCAS, Hollywood, Florida, FBI Number 623814.

dvised on May 18, 195.

LUCAS was arrested on February 17,

955, at the Talley-Ho Bar and charged with operating a book

making establishment. 'He

stated that this' charge is stifl."

pending®

729 NE Third Street,

Hallandale, Florida,

Apri1 28

TUMBARELLO were operating as

HALL stated that in his' opinion MARZANO was prabably the number

one bookmaker in the Hallandale area.

Florida, FBI#311364.

HENRY J: MASGI;, 1430 Funston Street, Hollywood,

+.

and Hallandale,

Florida, during the past winter season.

CHARLES MELFI

Lauderdale, Plorida, PD#A-7438.

423. North Andrews Avenue, Port

advised on

HARRY MEYERS; 3800 South Federal Highway, Fort Lauderdale,

Florida, S0#54-2725.

On December 24, 1954, MM 547-C advised that HARRY

marchs, owner of the lorch Club, a strip tease club, located at

3800 South Federal Highway in Fort Lauderdale, was bringing

are believed to be furnished by

Ble or tea, due canine vice operator in tho

• 15.

CONAPENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CUATFRESNHIAL

MM 62-1273

AMOS HALL, Broward County Sheriff, would not go along witl

ambling.in the County.

the County but that action was very slow.

operated in the Hollywood area

519 297 and WALTER"BUD" HAGGERTY, Hollywood PD#A-10.

information was confirmed by Detective GENE RYAN of the

on January 13, 1955, who added

adjoining rooms at the Hampshire House on South Ocean

Boulevard in Hollywood for a bust-out operation but stated

they were turned down by the owner.

On January 2k, 1955, MM3220C advised that MBYER

and JACK LANSkY, members of the Bastern Griminal Syndicate,

had advised him

that they were not interested in any gambling

operations in South

Florida under the present situation.

on way 18, 1955, Sgto ROBERT SMITH, Fort Lauderdale

Police Department, advised that MAX FBINBERG, formerly of

Gary, Indiana

Lauderdale, Florida.

FEINBERG had operated his crap game at the Broward Hotel

in that City but that during this past winter season he was

not allowed to operate in that hotel.

advised on May 18, 1955, that

in the Hollywood area outside of bookmakers.

residing 1n Las Vegas, Nevada.

- 26 =

CONFIdENTIAL

NW 45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CONFDENTIAL

MM 62-1273

CJM: 1c

FRANKIE JONES

FBI # 2200482

of the Miami area on various occasions.

that he is operating as a con-man with DANNY/CUMMINGS, alias

an old-time card cheater and con-man, who FL

also currently resides at the Angele Hotel. JONES is also

believed to be engaged in narcotics activity with_ ISADORE

* SHADLETSKI, WaS •:

FBI # 599129, who is presently operating

the Club Carnival in Tampa, Florida.

GEORGE LEMOLE

FBI # 795088

ELA

oth, 1955 to proceed to the Plaza Hotel which he operates at

Absecon, New Jersey.

DES GEORGE*IEMOLE

KENNETH -HANNA

FBI # 739132

This hoodlum from Albany, New York was in Miami

auring the past season and was connected with wire service .

activities, getting race result information out of local

race tracks.

CHARLES TOURINE,

waS•. FBI # 695716

This Top Hoodlum, who formerly resided at the

Miami Beach,

GEORGE VAINTRAUB

alias "THE RUSSIÁN"

He is a well-known New_ York_City gambler who resided

at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, during the

..

CONTENTIAL®

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 62-1273

CJM: 1c

stayed at the Hampshire House Apartments, 6729 Indian Creek

He was observed on occasions

in the cocktail lounge of the Golden Strand Hotel, Miami Beach,

Florida.

JOHN DIO GUARDIA

FBI # 665273 -

FLA.

He is one of the well-known hoodlum brothers known

as the DIO brothers,

who were active as racketeers in the

garment district in

a New York City.

His brother THOMAS DIC

GUARDIA, FBI # 920425, is not known to have been in the Miami

area during the past season, but JOHN DIO GUARDIA

• who is a

convicted extortionist and nephew of JIMMY*PLUMERI, alias

JIMMY DOYLE, New York City_trucking racketeer, operated the

*Sunny Isles Restaurant at 176th

Miami Beach, Fiorida.

Street and Collins Avenue,

*

ANTHONY

STRASSE,

wa. e TONYAROGERS

He was hanging

tur Jo December, 19M4, a Miam

during December,

Blah not was

HARRY OZIAS VOILER

FBI # 104354

Miami Beach, was arrested January 17, 1955 in Miami on the basis

of a three-count indictment for perjury returned against him

by a Chicago, Illinois Grand Jury•

NICK HELIOPOLOUS,

it!

alias NICKYXELLIOTT

FRANCE

He is a member of the family that dominates the

Greek Syndicate which controls-gambling in France. ELLIOTT,

CONIDENTIAL

• 890

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 9

-

---

## Page 10

W. SPENTIAL

MM 62-1273

EWP: FLH

have been alleged against the mayor. or the city manager

and they are considered to be

interested in and cooperative

toward good law enforcement.

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

There are no known organized gangs operating in the

St. Petersburg,

Florida,

or elsewhere in Pinellas County which

have headquarters in this area. All organized criminal

activity in the area covered by the St. Petersburg Resident

Ageney is operated from lampa, Florida, a city located approx-

Imately 20 miles away.

This organized activity will be

reported under the heading of gambling; inasmuch as all or-

ganized activity of a criminal nature in this area is gamb-

ling°

ators, whooper and are one as a by dode here

convicted as a result of this operation. All members

of the TRAFFICANTE gang have been prosecuted

and most of them.

were convicted, as will be set forth later in this report.

1.

According to MM-496-C, there are no organize

gangs or organized

criminal activity in the Gulf Beach area

of Pine llas County.

PCI

advised that he has been around

most of the bars which appear to be likely hangouts for

the criminal element in St. Petersburg, but had heard no

conversation which would indicate that there is any organized

criminal activity in the area.

This PCI stated that when

he was associated with the hoodlum elemeht in Louisville,

Kentucky, before coming to Florida, he never heard St. Peters-

burg, Florida mentioned as being frequented by the hoodlum ?.

element; which used to move frequently between Louisville,

Kehtucky, and Jacksonville, and Tampa, Florida.

MM-416-C advised that there are no organized gangs

in the St. Petersburg area of sufficient stature to commit

the St. Petersburg are would be

handled out of Tampa, Florida.

CONFTRENTIAL

• 138-

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 10

OTHER 4

---

## Page 11

CONZPENTIAL

MM 62-1273

It is specifically noted at this time that all

information reported hereinafter concerning crimes has

been reported to local authorities or authorties having

primary investigative jurisdiction.

A. ORGANIZED GANGS

greatly curtailed during this period as well as past

periods in view of the fact that the United States has

moved against these individuals as a result of an indictment

were "big men in the

gang", as well as 23 other Pinellas

County Negroes who were previously arrested by local

authorities in st. Petersburg and Tampa, Florida.

It will be reported hereinafter that MM 416 PC

reported that the TRAFFICANTES conviction, that is SANTO

and HENRY, in Pinellas Gounty, for the bribery of a St.

Petersburg Detective, would never come to trial inasmuch

as there were numerous reversible errors and that further-

more the TRAFFICANTES cont act, _CHARLIE.WALL(as above) was

to reach D.K HROBERTS, of the Florida Supreme Court, and

their appeal would be

taken care of.

Since the above group dominated the Italian

Syndicate at Tampa, Florida, which has been in power since

approximately 1940, numerous smaller groups have come into

action

and these groups are reported under the heading

+.

FBI#291641,

- 172 .

COMEDENTISI

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 11

---

## Page 12

CONTIDENTIAL

MM 62-1273

On May 19

made a visit to Miami 1955, Captain HENRICH advised he had

, Florida, and had contacted MOE

ROCKFELD and HARRY SOSNICK at the 5 O'clock Club, Miami

Beach, Florida, and ascertained that MOE ROCKFELD was to

take over: a night club in West Palm Beach, Florida, and that

HARRY SOSNICK was to operate a night club

at Palm Beach,

HEINRICH stated this information came from

FBI # 599120

wa, FBI # 167160-B; SAM

Night Club at 1204 Franklin Street, known as the Club Carnival.

According to MM-439-C, who has furnished reliable

OTHER 4

FREDDIE FINK,

FBI #280445 (shot by New York Policeman in New FA

York), JOE PELUSA DIAZ, and SALVATORE LORENZO, hang out at this:

club.

+.

B. INDIVIDUAL RACKETEERS AND MOBSTERS

JOB BEDAMI, FBI 482699A

Flui

This individual, a well known Tampa hoodlum,

is con-

tinually reported by local

law enforcement officers as being

involved in some robberies; however, they have never con.

Is closely associatea with a

ups, named MANUELGISPETH.

LOUIS RODRIGUEZ ALCALA,

Louis Alcala, FBI # 1310741

flir

• 173.

CONFIPENTIAN

NH

45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 12

---

## Page 13

NA SENTIAL

MM 62-1273

TrIPS, Eri

This individual owns the

Pelican_ Drive-Inn,

male, 35 years of age, who

was convicted in February, 1955, for after-hour sales at

the Drive-Inn. He was defended by Attorney JOHN GOFF and

it is noted that DOLORES DORIS, a barmaid at the inn,

associates CELEST INO MART INEZ

and SAM MONDELLO testified

for him.

ALCALA continues to be a fidry strong-arm hoodlum

in the West Tampa section.

ANGELO CALI

according to

VINCENT-CALI

who has been convicted in the past for the

murder of ARMANDOyFLOREZ, wa Al|Flacco, deceased hoodlum.

JIMMY BRUNO

This individual resides resides Union Street

Tampa,

Street, which was formerly the, frolics.

known as a former bartender at the Sands Bar which is operated

by FANO TRAFFICANTE, brotheröf SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

, BENNETALVAREZ

This individual is a former hoodlu; thief, robber

and ex-bondsman.

in the doorway of the Granada Cafe.

ALVAREZ was putting pressure on pimps in the Tampa area.

SALVATORE RED TALIANO, NAS., FBI # 449L62 MI

This individual no longer dominates

Italian hoodlums

in the Tampa area and, according to MM-416-PC, this individual

. - 174 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 13

---

## Page 14

-

CONPENTAL

MM 62-1273

purchased a large home in Mexico City and is planning

to stay there in the event of a tax evasion case attempted

against him by the United States Internal Revenue Bureau.

AUGU ST INE

PRIMO TAZZARA, FBI # 210606A

This individual, according to Captain WALTER

HEINRICH, NA, Vice Squad, and RALPH W. MILLS, Operating

Director of the Hillsborough County Crime Commission, is

presently operating as a bookmaker in the Tampa area. His

brothers, NELSON and WOE LAZZARA, allegedly have a small bolita

operating going on at the present time and their peddlers are

unknown.

He continues to operate the Yellow House Bar on

15th Street in Ybor City Section of. Tampa.

His brother, JOHN

MAZZARA, is known to be the vice president of the Broadway

Bank of

Tampa in Ybor City. Further,

ccording to MM-439-C,

known as CUCKOO, who operates the Old Fort Restaurant

Tampa.

FIA.

Captioned individual is closely associated with

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

and is closely associated

strongarm man for operations in Augusta, Georgia.

FRED FINK, FBI 4280445 "FREDDLE"

Fifie

This individual, according, to numerous law enforce-

ment authorities in Tampa,

Florida, 1s a well known pimp_and

tack cos dot in ene here by a ponice orice in rooklyni and •

MM-439-C described this individual as a small-time,

loud-mouthed pimp who arranges stag shows for any individuals:

Furthermore, he moved into alleged legitimate

operation in that he is a representative of ALXFAST, who is

the head representative. of American Guild Variety Artists in

the west coast of Tampa, and books all theatrical

acts in

night clubs in Tampa and the West Coast.

- 175--

CONADENTIAI

NW 45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 14

---

## Page 15

CONOENTIAL

• MM 62-1273

DON LOWER,

with allases DON LAWSON, DONALD MANNING, DON

• MANO, FBI:2355017.

This individual is identified through correspondence

with other offices as a "queer shaker"

routine.

He resides at 908 Bast Hami BARL: LOWBR,

using a detective

Tampa, Florida,

• Store, Tampa, Florida,

MARSHALL BEASLEY, FBI#633059•

This individual has been previously identified in

GIlF reports from Tampa,

LAZZARA. It is believed by these sources that this bookmaking

operation extends to Augusta,

Georgia, where a contact of theirs

1s CIRO BEDAMI, Tampa PD#29680.

ANGELO BEDAMI, FBI#1849088; JOE BEDAMI, FBI/82699A.

These two individuals are identified as with the

Italian Group in Tampa, Florida.

ANGELO BEDAMI being the

father of JOB BEDAMI, according

Tampa Police Department, continues to be a prime suspect in

seen most any night after 3 A.M., at the Old Fort Restaurant

on Platt and Lafayette Streets.

According to MM 439-6, ANGELO BEDAMI is operating

n the bolita business and he is a close associate and con

fidant of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

and PRIMO LAZZARA

JOSEPH MORTELLARO OICCIATORE.

rati

with aliases JOB' HORTENA, C.

LANNON, 5JO-JOY FBT#273579,

:

residence and states every week numerous cars are seen from

= 179 0

CONFPENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 15

---

## Page 16

CoMPENTAL

MM 62-1273

During this writing SORIANO has been picked up

for armed robberies and questioned but released.

JOHN CARUSO.

LiST

This individual,

a white male, 49 years of age,

of 1917 - 5th Avenue,' is a reputed Tampa bolita racketeer,

during this period but continues to

operate in the sale of bolita.

He was also facing federal

tax charges and he operates the Caruso's Florida Cafe at

West Tampa, 2102 North Howard Avenue.

SALVASONE *LURINZO

SALVATORE S. (SAM) LORENZO, FBI #5136882.

"SILENT Jerin"

This individual is identified as the close

associate of SANTO and HENRY TRAFFICANTE.

He is the indi-

vidual who allegedly sold the car that was involved in a

bribery of SANTO TRAFFICANTE and HENRY TRAFFICANTE with

Sergeant HARRY F. DIETRICH, of the St. Petersburg, Florida

Police Department, which car was given DIETRICH for his

protection of the Trafficante bolita operation in St. Peters-

burg. LORENZO spent six months in jail for charges of contempt

of court in that he would not answer questions concerning the

TRAFFICANTES.

He was recently indicted with the TRAFFICANTES

by the Federal Grand Jury in a conspiracy case to violate the

Watering Tax Stamp Act.

He has been reported in the past by

as a strongarm hoodlum who may possibly be

the killer for the TRAFFICANTE Group.

JAMES B: "JINMYN LONGO.

FLi.

This individual has been identified in the past

as a bodyguard for SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

According to MM 416 PC

who advised on December 22, 1954, LONGO was travelling between

Miami and Tampa, Florida,

and was allegedly involved in a

number of stickups in the Miami, and Miami Beach area which

were believed of the type, according to informant, of robbing

wealthy homes and jewelry.

JOHN SCARFACE RIVERA, with aliases, SCARFACE JOHNNY, JOHN

RIVERS.

- OTHER 4

- 182 -

CONUDENTIN!

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 16

---

## Page 17

1: GENTAL

MM 62-1273

ChARks E.tRice

OTHER 4

JOHNNY. has been identified for many years as the bodyguard

1955 Florida Tag 3-53506, registered under the name of JOHN

RIVERS, 1206 - 15th Avenue.

It is also noted at this time that CHARLIE WALL'S

nurderer was a close friend of his, according to local

police authorities who are investigating the murder and they

note that it occurred in WALL'S bedroom where he had a loaded

45 immediately next to him, therefore, whoever killed him was

very close to him.

MANUEL FERNANDEZ, FBI 256934B.

FLI:

According to MM 416 PC, this individual was con-

victed in Federal District Court, Tampa, and he was one of

the TRAFFICANTE bolita peddlers and all during the time he

was in prison his wife was paid $40.00 per week.

MM 416 PC

further advised that this individual is back working with

the TRAFFICANTES. His record in the United States Marshal's

Institution at Tallahassee, Florida, June 17, 1954, on a

violation of failure to register and purchase Wagering Tax

Stamp.

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., FBI #482531B.

This individual continues to reside at 2505 Bristol,

Tampa.

He is closely identified with his brother, HENRY

TRAFFICANTE, FBI #625515B, who resides at 3110 North Boulevard,

- 183 - CONFDENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 17

---

## Page 18

CONTENTAL

MM 62-1273

Sinterinis

the name of SAMMY#POLLACK, who is a small time former bar-

tender from Miami Beach,

who presently resides at 809 West

and who is shacked up with a

His front man up until

FLA

with alias SAMMY PAXTON,

who is a known pimp and a front man at the Club Carnival and

resides at 4707 Bayview Avenue, Tampa.

SAMMY PAXTON has been replaced by ALLEN HIRSCH,

who is a new arrival in Tampa,

Florida, from Miami

a 1954 yellow Ford convertible, bearing 1955 Floand who

Washington Avengi stered in the name of A. S.XHIRSCH, 2115

Miami Beach, Florida. HIRSCH was surveilled

on the morning of

May 18, 1955, to the residence of 3915

Fig Street

where he was

shacked up with a strip tease dancer

the Club Carnival.

This captioned individual is closely identified

with FREDDIE FINK, with aliases, FBI #280445

who has also

served time in Sing Sing as allegedly SHADLETSKY has.

is also associated with an individual named DANNY LEWIS

who has been identified by MM 439-6, and BETTY MOELLER, aka.,

Mrs. CLIFFORD MOELLER,

a PCI,.

as a hoodlum, gangster and

possibly wanted individual from the State of New York. This

He is allegedly on parole and efforts

to identify him at the present writing have been negative.

Captioned individual is closely associated with

such individuals as MOE ROCKFELD,

FBI #291641; HARRY. SOSNICK,

with aliasestrom Key West

with aliases

manted to a danz robbery on Long Totata, ho was recent 2y

C. POLITICAL TIEUPS WITH ORGANIZED CRIME

According to Chief of Police B. J. ROBERTS, the

present Mayor of Tampa, CURTIS HIXSON, has no political tie-

ups with organized crime and he states that the only

individual who'is in the race for mayor

borough County Commissioner

NICK NUCCIỞ, a present Hills-

and gamblers are behind NUCCIO and NUCCIO already has them

lined up for the coming fall election.

- 285 - CONPNDENTIAL

NW 45946

DocId: 32309723

Page 18

---

## Page 19

—..

MM 62-1273

H. NOTORIOUS TYPES AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT

City' of Tampa.

Florida.

bars are closed.

Captain HEINRICH has advised that he has seen

the following hoodlums hanging out at the Old Fort on

numerous occasions:

SANTO TRAPPICANTE, HENRY TRAPPICANTE, AUGUSTINE

PRIMO LAZZARA, JOB LAZZARA, FRANK-DIBCIDER, J0E

PELUSA DIAZ, JOE PERRONE, and PANO and SAM

TRAFFICANTE

HEINRICH advised the Poinsettia Ice Cream Parlor,

1315 Bast Broadway, run by RALPH MASCULLURE, has become a

hangout for Puerto Ricans.

Élub Carnival, 1200 Franklin Street.

SALVATORE J.

and numerous other small Tampa hoodlums hanging out at this

establishment.

- 193 .

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 19

---

## Page 20

CONNDENTIAL

MM 6201273

DORIS, DOLORES

DORN, F. T. •

DOWEN, FRANK

DOWNEY, 0. K.

"Jack"

DOYLE, JIMMY "Jimmy Plumeri"

DRAGO, JOE W.

DRAKOULACOS, CHARIES

DRANE, MEL

DUBOIS, MURRAY

DUGAN, AULDON B.

DUNCAN, DR. JOHN H. •

DUNCAN, LEE

DURDEN,

WILLARD

150,

138, 157, 177,

+.

OTHER 4

70

-

E

ED

...

EDDIE

EDER, MAX

EDWARDS, BONNIE

EDWARDS, CHARLES LEON

EDWARDS, MRS. CHESTER G.

EDWARDS, HEARD •

ELLER, BILL

ELLIOTT, J. J.

ELLIOTT, JOHN

ЕИМОТТ, JOHN С.

ELATOTT, NICKY "Nick Heliopolous"

ELIJS,

GEORGE ...

ELLIS, MATTIE

ELISWORTH, FRANK

ELISWORTH, JOYCE •

ELMORE, NICK

EVERY, JIMMY

ENGLES, FOSTER •

ERICKSON, FRANK

ERNIE (INU)

ERNIE.

ERRA,

PATTY "Patay Aira"

EVANS, E. A. .

EVANS, ROBERT F.

• See

A.

See Edward A. Blair

J.

Longo or Firnice Longwell

See Maxie Raymond

57

5,

9

137

163

65, 72

146

32

160 -

89

177

150

95

197

See Vincezo Ammeratti

21, 22

201

.

125

See Charles E. Newman

93,

118

106

64

v111.

CONASPENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 20

---

## Page 21

CONPDENTIAL

MM 62-1273

OXFORD, LON D., JR.

OXFORD, H.E.

PADGETT, W. W.

.

PALMER, C. M. . .

PALMER, ROBERT

PAPY, BERNIE

PARRI, SIDNEY S.

PARSONS, EDGAR "BIg TIff".

PASSARELIA, "Reds"

PAT . ...

PATE, DEWEY K.

PAUL,

LESTER

PAULEY, (FNU)

PAXTON, SAMMY

PEAL, JOSEPH

PECK

..

PELLAGER, E. WALTON •

PELUSA, JOE

PEPPER, CLAUDE

PEPPO JOE

PEREZ, BIENVENIDO G.

PERRONE, JOE

..

.

PERRONE, SANTO HENRY

PERRY, PAUL •

PETERSON, ALBERT OTTO e fette

PETERSON, J. HARDIN, JR.

PETTY, TOM

PHIL

.....

PHILI.TPS, S. N. •

PHILLIPS, WILLIAM DAVID •

PIANTEDOSI, VICTOR

PILIMER, SALLY

PINDER,

HOWARD G.•

PIRTIE, CLYDE . .

PIESCIA, TONY • •

PLUMERI, JIMMY

PLUNK, CARL . .

POE, THOMAS

. .

POLIACK, SAMMY

.

POOL, ALFRED HILL "BIg A1"1

See H. P. Gordon

45

48

178

See Salvatore Amarena

198

40

See William J. Gardner

• 131

See Joo Avilio Diaz

1

See Joseph Longo

53, 56

151, 168, 184,

193

172

17,

See Felix P. Catania

177, 194

16

See Dick Allen

49

98.

200.

155

See Jimuy Doyle

.

37

173,

185,

73

193

151

OTHER 4

xix.

CONFDENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 21

---

## Page 22

CONFIDENTIAL

MM 62-1273

RICHARDSON, JESSE

RICHBURG, JOHN W.

RICHTE

RIO, DANNY

RIVERA, JOHN "Scarface", "Scarface Johnny", "John Riverg"

ROACH, MRS. BYRD

ROBERSON, KATHLEEN

ROBERTS, BRYANT J.

ROBERTS, CHARTES JOSSPH "Ittle Charlien

ROBERTS, D. R. . .

ROBERTSON, MAX •

ROBINSON, E. C.

•ROBINSON, ROBBIE •

ROCCO, MIKE "Mickey the Guy"

ROCKFELD, BOOTS "Gloria Myles"

ROCKFELD, MOE

RODENBAUGH, CARL

RODENBAUGH, DOUGLAS

RODRIGUEZ, ROLANDO •

ROGERS. AUBREY

HUGERS, TONY

ROGERS, VERNON

ROLLINS, EDWARD JOSEPH

ROSE, ALVIN

ROSEN, GEORGE

ROSEN,

NIG.

ROSENBAUM, EDWARD G. "Lucky Eddie"

ROTH, HARRY

...

ROTHENBERG, MORTON

ROTHMAN, NORMAN

ROUBIK, CIARENCE . •

ROWE, CHARLES F.

RUBIN, ELLIS • •

RUBIN, SAMUEL "Stretch"

RUSSIAN, THE . . •

HUSSO, WILLIAM • •

BUTHSTEIN, WOODY "Woody Ruth"

RYAN, CANE

RYDER BROTHERS •

65

70

93

173

169,

, 170,

182, 183

7.0

169-171, 185-789

17, 33

140,

172, 173, 176,

, 180,

185,

205

.

128

148,

156

178

163,

164

203

•See Anthony Strasse

•126-128

36,.

See

Hyman

1 Stra

*

OTHER 4

.

^7,

18,

184

See George Vaintraub

See William Daddono

• 124, 125

•5, 16, 26

• • 28

•xaxi.

CONNDENTIAL

NW 45946 DocId: 32309723

Page 22

---

## Page 23

CONSENTIAL

MM 62-1273

WHITEHEAD, JOHN •

WICK, HOSEA • •

•

WIDETT, MYRON •

WILENSKY, HERMAN "Herkie"

WILKERSON, FATS • •

WILLIAMS, CHARLIE •

WILLIAMS, CHARLOTTE

WILLIAMS, GORDON F.

WILLIAMS, T. HAROLD

WILSON, HARRY. R.

WILSON, ROBERT N. •

WILSON, WANDA • •

• WINDOM (WINDHAM), ROSS E.

WINGY

....

WOFFER, BENNY b-way.

WOLFSON, LOUIS

. .

WOOD, CHARIES JAMES

WOOD, OLIVER "Woody"

WERER, JOHNNY •

WOLF, FRED

WOODY

WOLFOIR,

WALTER

WORION, J. EDWARD

WRIGHT, ANDREW G.

WRIGHT, HELEN

WRIGHT, MAUDE

WRIGHT, ORVILLE

WiLK,

ELEANOR

WYLK, RUDOLPH •

132

135

198,

136,

Se

See

Oliver

202

161

151

-92

97

135

202

127

67

105

152

106

152

25

OTHER 4

54,

TARAS, DAVID

TAW, EVERETT E.

.

75

38

ZEVELY, "XYZ"

77, 112, 113.

200, 205, 206

savil.

CONFIDENTIAI

IH 45946 DocId:32309723 Page 23

---

