# docid-32294443

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10213-10219

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 9-42758-42

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/25/1965

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: OBA, ASSOC, TELCAL, OPINION, PAY-OFF

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/07/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932

DocId: 32294443

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JAITY

MM 9-1706

that the voice on the both of these recordings sounded like

the anonymous caller who has previously contacted the

BENJOCHEA residence and he still believed that this is the

voice of JOSE RICARDO GARCIGA. BENJOCHEA, SR., who has never

talked to the extortionist by telephone, expressed the

opinion that the voice sounds like that of GARCIGA, whom he

has talked to in person.

On 1/22/65 the Miami Office sent to the FBI

Laboratory typewritten specimen obtained on 1/15/65 by

MM 635-S, who went to the Abbey Clinic to consult Dr. BOSCH

as a patient for a foot ailment.

He observed BOSCH type

this specimen on ans old Underwood typewriter. A non-

professional comparison of this specimen with the extortion

letter which was sent to the home of MENDOZA reflects great

solo

similarity, and it is hoped that this typewriter may be

identified as being the one used in the MENDOZA letter d/ 4) /

1/21105

CONTEMPLATED INVESTIGATION

Miami will conduct investigation to identify the

anonymous caller and iscattempting to bring this case to another

"payoff". Miami will also attempt to catch subjects in the

act of making a telephone call to one of the victims, if

possible.

Efforts will continue to obtain specimens from

typewriters in possession of subjects and suspects.

Voice

recordings obtained from IGLESIAS will be played back to

additional victims and witnesses for identification purposes.

LAIT VIVU

- 3

502-10:514

HIH

53932 DocId: 32294443 Page 2

---

