# docid-32326726

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

124-90056-10033

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

183-737-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SF

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/14/1976

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32326726

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY

1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

-wRNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/14/76

COM

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO: (183-114) (P)

SALVATORE

AMARENA aka -

ET AL

RICO

00: SAN FRANCISCO

=15

UMI

Re San Francisco airtel to Bureau dated 8/25/76.

PROGRESS LETTER

This case was instituted by the San Francisco

Division as San Francisco had an informant, SF8677PC,

employed as a waitress at Sal's Expresso Cafe, 287 Ellis Street,

San Francisco, California.

to the San Francisco FBI Office as a meeting place and

62300 to 300

Sal's Expresso Cafe was known.

message center for well known West Coast LCN figure ALADENA

T. FRATIANNO.

SF8677PC had an apartment located in the Mission

District of San Francisco, California,

and gave her consent

for electronic surveillance to be instituted at her. apartment.

Valuable general intelligence and travel information was

furnished by the PC and through the use of electronic sur-

veillance; however, no specific criminal violations were

obtained in regard

to the activities of JIMMY FRATIANNO and

other known West Coast LCN figures.

In view of the above,

electronic surveillance was terminated after approximately

2 months, and SF8677PC was closed as she had become very

apprehensive in regard to her association with JIMMY FRATIANNO,

SAL AMARENA, and other organized crime figures in the San

Francisco area.

San Francisco intends to continue the current RICO

investigation concerning FRATIANNO, AMARENA, and others, and

is working in close coordination with other law enforcement

agencies such as the San Francisco Police Department and the

San Mateo County Sheriffs Office in this investigation.

-First!

REC2 183-739-

Bureau

2

-

cX4109u

TFJ/cea

San Francisco girl

A UCT 18 1976

(4)

70000 281976

F235

THAD

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Swings Plan CHiPesn

DocId: 32326726

Page 2

---

