# docid-32289695

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10471

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

166-1690-69

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45855 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: COSTIN, JOHN P. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/09/1967

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

VAL, FGJ, ASSOC, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/22/1998

. OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HH 45855

11

DocId: 32289695

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-253 (Rev. 3-8-67)

3: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

VINCENT

AIO,

aka

ET AL.

OFFICEOFORIGIN

LOS ANGELES

DATE

8/9/67

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOO

417-7127/67

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN P.

COSTIN, JR

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

sd1

ITAR- GAMBLING

COMTEMPT. OF COURT

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN F. COSTIN, JR., dated 3/21/67.

at Los

Angeles.

Los Angeles teletypes

to Bureau dated 4/7; 5/4;

6/1; 27,29; 7/3; 14/67.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

JEK Law 10(a)2

The Las Vegas Division advised on Narch 31, 1967,

that several contacts had been made with

since

the beginning of the Federal Grand Jury at Los Angeles,

and it

was obvious that he is very much concerned about this.

Indications

were strong that in the event he were called before this Grand

Jury he would refuse to answer and he has stated in his words

that

he is. not afraid to go to jail and feels we should take our

best shot at him.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

AUTO

BENE

FINES

SAVINGS

ACQUIT-

CONVIC

FUG.

RECOVERIES

.TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR STYES UNO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES EiNO.

APPROVEO UN

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

114-1690-69

Bureau (166-1590)

USA,

LOS

Angeles

(Attn:

2

A USA

DAVID R. MISSEN)

- Los Angeles

(165-4145)

REC

11 AUG 16. 1967

Dissemination Record of Atroched refun l MUT tHi

Agency

Request Reg

Date Fi

How Fix

By

0O. AAC

Room

2524

Crimical

Miricion,

wits Section

54 AUG2 4 1967

Notations

NW 45855 DooId: 32289695

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 166-445

On 3/29/67, IA 4475-C-TE advised SA GEORGE E

that the United States Marshal served

BLAND

on

for her appearance before the Federal Grand Jury (FGJ)

ÜEK-Law 10(a)2

on 3/30/67, the source learned that SIDNEY GATHRID

threatened to commit

suicide in Las Vegas by jumping out the

window.

He had been depressed about money because he 1s now

making less working at Caesar's Palace than he previously did

at his old job.

ZAROWITZ offered him money but he declined.

GATHRID does not like Las Vegas or JAY SARNO.

on 4/5/67, the source advised that Lockwood was taken

by attorney, ADRIAN MARSHALL to meet with AUSA DAVID M. MILLER

at 8:00 AM on 4/5/67. She had previously, possibly the day before,

met with MARSHALL and BRYANT BURTON, at which time they both

told her to tell the truth about who she was now living with,

which is the source, some of the presents she

ZAROWITZ, and that she had lived with him.

a lived

had received from

on 4/13/57, the source advised that according to

$250.00 per week for LOCKWOOD..

on 5/3/67, LV 117-C-TE advised that several of the

officials at Caesar's Palace, principally ZAROWITZ and PRICE,

expressed concern over the incarceration of RUBY LAZARUS and

were overheard to say that "SID" had visited him on Monday,

5/1/67, to "take care of him"

LA 4476-C-TE advised on 5/4/67 that on 5/1/67, he

Introduced LOCKWOOD to Attorney General RAMSEY CLARK at

party held at the Ambassador Hotel, Los Angeles, California,

following a Law Day conference.

LOCKWOOD told source later in the evening that the

meeting In Pälm Springs concerned financial difficulties of

Caesar's Palace as only ZAROWITZ had put money into the operation,

but JAY SARNO and NATE. JACOBSON, owners of recond, had not made

- B

COVER PAGE

NW 45855 DooId: 32289695

Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 166-445

any financial. Investment. ZAROWITZ contacted ALO and SALERNO

who came to Palm Springs and according to LOCKWOOD put in

"millions of dollars."

The exact amount invested by ALO and

SALERNO, or the amount of points received by them was not known

to LOCKWOOD..

According to LOCKWOOD, gambling at Falm Springs

was only incidental.

On 5/19/67, the above source advised that LOCKWOOD

told source that last week she ran out of money and she called

ZAROWITZ, who flew Into. Los Angeles and gave her $2,000.00.

Source believed this to be true because

she has done a lot of

work on her house and has purchased stock.

On 4/13/67, MM. 509-C-IE advised SA ROBERT F. FETZNER

that LOUIS ROTONDO

has been ordered to pay the wife of RUBY

LAZARUS (BEVERLY LAZARUS) a sum of $150.00 a month on behalf of

ANTHONY

"FAT TONY" SALERNO and the

"boys" as long as RUBY is

confined to jail.

A further stipulation according to source is

that BEVERLY LAZARUS does not talk to any law enforcement

agencies.

ant and "front màn" for

LOUIS OLONDO, FBI number 2 639 857 15 a known Iieuten-

SALERNO. He has long been active in the

rackets in both the New York City and Miami, Florida areas.

LA 4935-PC advised he learned from a casino employee

of Caesar's Palace on June 13, 1967, that ZAROWITZ belleved he

would be subpoened, granted immunity and because he could not

talk he would go to jail.

review of the transcript of

testimony

on

revealed

testified

JEK Law 10(a)2

COVER PAGE

774 45855

DocTd: 32289695

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 166-445

JFK LaW

10(a)2

On

he testified in a like manner.

6/7/67, LA 4935-PC advised SA GEORGE E. BLAND

that JOEy BOSToN,

JOEY was a bookmaker

In Miami. Source noticed Joby hanging

around MAURICE

"RED'

Source met ELLIOTT PAUL PRICE

on

the night of 6/7/07

who was talking to Joe dI MAGGIo.

LEAD

Frai

LOS ANGELES

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA:

Will follow and report

results

of Grand Jury action in this matter.

- 77*-

COVER

PAGE

HIH

45855

DocId: 32289695

Page 5

---

