# docid-32296689

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10465

RECORD SERIES

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-229101-SEE COMMENTS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/07/1973

PAGES: 28

SUBJECTS :

JURE, CONFERENCE, POLICY, TERRORISM, ACA,

REACTION, US, RELATIONS, CUBAN GOVERNMENT, INTV,

LEADERSHIP, VARIOUS EXILE GROUPS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS:

105-229101-2ND NR 2,3RD NR 2,4TH NR 2,5TH NR 2,6 TH NR 2,7TH NR 2,8TH NR 2, INC 3

LHM, A/T, 6 MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32296689

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444

USC

2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE TIOTIAL. FOIM MIN. 111

MAY IMIPNITION

LAPPRATI (41 C.FR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES C

RNMENT

Memorandum

SEgRET

10

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (105-188954

JFK TASK FORCE

dol

DATE:

APR

3 4 1073

(105-16598)

(P

SUBJECT:

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (AS

2/22/28

GAGE IN FULL

INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION

PFI

RELEASE IN PART

(acc) RAC

(r) Starte

IS - CUBA

TOTAL DENIAL

ICE CIA

SS

DIA

'(Icc) Nuvy

(Icc) A F

ORIGINAT, FILED FAT

105-188954

JUNTA CURANA REVOLUCIONARIA

• (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

O into

vi

Nobod

IS - CUBA

105.929101

RE

ALT INFORM

WH

HERS

EXCE

OTtiERWIS

ttached.

Re Miami letter 3/8/73, to Bureau, With LINUTe

742/0

Enclosed for the Bureau are ten copies of

LHM dated and captioned as above.

Copies are being furnished locally to the

following:

w9l23

$730/13

U. S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida

NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

109th M. I. Group, Miami, Florida

Florida

J. S. Coast Guard, Miami, Florida

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

U. S. Customs, Miami, Florida

INS, Miami, Florida

OST,

Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

85

Classified by

Declassify

This LIM is classified CONFIDENTIAL sinCe

disclosure of the informatico could reasonably be expected

to cause damage to the national security by exposing a

confidential source of continuing

value.

NOT RECORDED

150 MAY 24 1973

3

'Bureau (Enc. 10) (RM)

New York (Enc.

2) (info)

(1- 105-99207)

(RM)

(1 - 105-117673)

1

* Newark (Enc. 1) (info) (RM)

- Miami

(105-16598)

(1 - 105-20070)

(1 - 134-1539-Sub A)

GED/neb

DECTASSITICD BYSP SMaC

(10)

54 MAY 3 0 1973

ON

ACROSURE

DESERRETI

GFK)

DocId: 32296689

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

arter. "in

SECRET

MM 105-16598

Source: MM 1337-S.

For the information of the Bureau,

MM 1337-S reported that RODRIGUEZ agreed to give him prior

notification of further developments.

LEAD

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will maintain close contact with MM 1337-S

and other logical sources for additional pertinent

developments.

2.

SECRET

DocId: 32296689

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

MM 10516598

LNITED STATES DEPARTMENT

F JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

APR 2 4 1973

HEIDEN

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

It has been previously reported that

CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ, a Cuban exile and former

labor leader in Cuba, now

residing in Miami, represents

the Accion Sindical Independiente (ASI) and

the Junta

Cubana Revolucionaria (JCR). The ASI is the labor

grOUP Of JCR.

In December, 1972, and January, 1973,

information was received indicating that RODRIGUEZ

planned to begin terrorist activities in the event

the United States should sign an agreement with

FIDEL CASTRO of Cuba. RODRIGUEZ reportediy said

that

the principal targets would be ships and diplomatic

offices belonging to countries which trafficked with

Cuba.

On February 26, 1973, as previously

reported, a Miami source tho

is acquainted with some

members of the ASI, reported that RODRIGUEZ intended to

kill five individuals, since the United States hau

entered into an agrcement with Cuba on the subject of

hijacking. He named one of his intended victims as a

professor who has beon identified as professor JAIME

, SUCHLICKI, a Cuban national of Polish origin, who is

ANIIDENLIAL

Enemy fonD ortegory fumber

Date al naclassication -

DECLASSIFIED BY:

$16B JA/GCL

Indefinite

ON

6/84/85

ALI, INFORVACION CONTAINED

MIGREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

DATE: 4-15-94 BY SPOT

BRCLOSURE

105-2291010

DocId: 32296689 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John.F. Kennedy. Assassination Records-Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-16598

on the staff of the University of Miami..

When interviewed

on March 1, 1973, by Special Agents of the FBI, RODRIGUEZ

denied that his organizations had any intention of

violating any U.S. laws by attacking ships, diplomatic

establishments, or any individuals in the U. S. or elsewhere.

CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS

On April 9, 1973, the same Miami source

reported that RODRIGUEZ reiterated that sometime within

the very near future, his men would place bombs in the

homes of some individuals who are working for peaceful

co-existence.

for same would be claimed by a fictitious clandestine

organization. He added that his plans included attack

on some ship which is trafficking with the CASTRO regime.

He did not identify any of the individuals whose homes

he said he would bomb, nor did he identily any particular

EARLE

ship or the country of registry of any such ship.

Source informed RODRIGUEZ that he had

learned through friends at the University of Miami that

SUCHLICKI is opposed to peaceful co-existence between

the United States and Cuba, that SUCKLICKI has the

reputation of being anti-Conmunist, and that SUCRLICKI

appeared on a Miami television program there he definitely

expressed hinself in opposition to peaceful co-existence.

RODRIGUEZ said that might be so, and that in any event,

he is too busy with other plans

to be concerned about

SUCHLICKI.

Source reported on April 12, 1973 that

RODRIGUEZ disclosed on the previous day that he will

continue his plans for bombings, but again he did not

supply the targets.

The source

said that RODRIGUEZ is

now employed as a salesman at Biltmore Motors, Miami.

It is to be noted that in the past, RODRIGUEZ

has disclosed the existence of plans of violence to other

sources, but none of these have yet been carried out.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBi and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

CHIDE

21. *

DocId: 32296689 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

".GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UIST. ED STATES GO

ERNMENT

CONFIDENTIAL

Memorandum

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

FROM

SAGA NEWARK

SUBJECT:

4/19/73

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

IS- CUBA

BUPILE 105-188954

NKFILE 105-27972

(C)

CLASSIFED BY S68348p

REASON: 1.5 / C

DECLASSIFY ON: X_(I)

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JOR) 4, 39-40 MI

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

ALI INPORMACION CONTATREL

HEREIN IS INORASSIFIED

IS-CUBA

Classied by SP&taMar

BUFILE 105-229101

EXCEPT WUENE SHORN

NKT ILE 105-29989

(6)

Declassify on: OADR/JF

OSHERMISS

RE Bureau letter to Miant and other offices, 2/23/73.

The following Iisted sources of the Newark Division

who are knowledgeable regarding Cuban matters were contacted

during February, March and April, 1973, regarding the information

contained in referenced communication.

Each was specifically

targeted to attempt to develop information regarding any

terrorist activities which may have arisen from a meeting

described in referenced communication:

*NK 3350-2SI

3165-5

Classified by

5007-PSI

Declassify on: RADR 21/85

5006- PSI

KNK (2670-S

NK 2622-3

NK 5173-PSI

105-229101-

No sources to date have provided positive information

in connection with any terrorist activity which might be engaged

In by CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ, the ASI or the JCR.

The importance of gaining intelligence information in

connection with and prior to any terrorist attacks, has been

impressed on the above listed sources and each are questioned

closely on a regular basis regarding this matter, iin the event

positive information is developed at any future date. Newark

any

4-Bureau

2-Newark

PHC / 1113 2 0 107

(6)

NOT RECORDAD

CONFIDENTIAL' 180 APR 20 1973

4 Ca

5010-108-02

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

3! 9-6..

DocId: 32296689 Page 6

954

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 7

Released inder the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11 alrln20d-M10.10

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11,0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 4/3/73

SAC,' LOS ANGELES (105-30990) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

IS a CUBA

BUF ILE:

105-188954

105-16598

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR):

(CUBAN REVOLUIIONARY BOARD)

IS = CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BUFILE: 105-229101

MMFILE: 105-20070

HEREINS UNCLASSIMIED

DATE 6/51/85, BYSPLBJHGC

Sog, Moe mide 4-15-94

Re Bureau airtel 2/23/73; also Miami letter 3/8/73.

ORIGINAL FILED IN

105-188954-55

For information of the Bureau and Miami, pertinent

sources of une bos Angoles offico have no information that

branches or representatives of the captionea organizations

exist in the Los Angeles area.

It is noticed that the only information suggesting

there are representatives in the Los Angeles area originate

with CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ himself, whose motives have

been previously questioned (see New York letter 1/31/72).

When previous inquiry was conducted in the above matters,

ARTURO RODRIGUEZ VIVES of New York City, then Minister of

Exterior Affairs for the JOR,

advised he was unaware of

any representative or contact in Los Angeles (see New York

letter 12/10/71) •

Pertinent sources, notably CSLA 3184-S, OSIA 4703-5,

IA 6549-E(URBAN) and representatives of the Criminal

Conspiracy Section of the Los Angeles PD (which has investigated

anti-Castro terrorist-type activities in the past, have been

alerted to the possibility of the revival of such activities.

in view of the recent United States - Cuba skyjacking

agreement and to the necessity of immedistely reporting

such incidents to this office.

• Bureau (RM)

Miami

(RM)

Los Angeles

(1 - 105-6516, ANTI-CASIRO ACTIVITIES)

3 APR 1219/3141

(8)

105-229101

NOT RECORDED

150 APR 10 19/3

Bug U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Poorall Swings Plan

DocId: 32296689 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-11-34 67L FORM NO. 10

MAY 1082 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES BOV NMENT

Memorandum

TO

:ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (105-188954)

DATE: 3/8/73

FROM : SAC, MIAMI (105-16598) (P)

SUBJECT: ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI) ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

IS - CUBA

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

DATE 6/21/85

-BY SPI BTAECL

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

IS - CUBA

Re Miami letter, 2/7/73, and Bureau airtel to Miami,

2/23/73.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 10 copies of an LHM dated

and captioned as above; two copies are being furnished New York

one each for Los Angeles, Newark and San Francisco, for infor-

mation purposes in view of their possible future interest in this

case.

Copies are being furnished locally to the following:

U.S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida

NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

109th M.I. Group, Miami, Florida

CIA, Miami, Florida

U.S. Coast

Guard, Miami, Florida

U.S. Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

U.S. Customs,

Miami, Florida

INS, Miami,

Florida

OSI; Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

This LHM is classified "Confidential" since disclosure

of the information could reasonably be expected to cause damage

to the national security by exposing a confidential source

of continuing value.

3

- Bureau (Enc. 10) (RM)

2 - New York (Enc. 2) (Info) (RM)

(1 - 105-99207)

(1 - 105-117673)

ANGLOSURE

1 - Newark (Enc. 1) (Info)

(RM)

- Los Angeles

(Enc. 1)

(Info)

(RM)

105÷23910

NOT RECORDED

37

MAR 13 1973

San Francisco (Enc.

1) (Info) (RM)

5

Miami

(2 - 105-16598)

(1 - 105-20070)

(1

- 105-20135

- FERNANDO ZALACAIN GARCIA)

(1 - 134-1539-Sub A

GID 8 MAR 221973 39

(13)

3010-109-02

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32296689 Page 8

---

## Page 9

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-16598

MM T-1 iS MM 1337-S.

For the information of the Bureau, in order to

protect MM 1337-S, prior to interviewing RODRIGUEZ, Special

Agents WILLIS E. WALTON and GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. interviewed

ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN, head of Alpha

66, and JUAN JOSE PERUYERO,

head of Brigade 2506, and notified them

that they were being

served with a warning that the U.S. Government would vigorously

investigate and prosecute any violations of Federal law

occasioned by Cuban exiles in opposition to the hijacking agreement

between the United States and Cuba.

Both of these individuals

were requested to pass the word along to other Cuban exile

organizations and individuals. This was done in order to protect

MM 1337-S by giving RODRIGUEZ the impression that his interview

by FBI Agents was the result of a general program.

Also, as an additional means of causing RODRIGUEZ to

cancel out his

plans against sUchLICkI, MM 1337-s was instructec

to notify RODHIGUEZ that he had researched SUCHLICKI by making

inquiry of some of his contacts at the University of Miami and

had determined it would be a grave mistake for RODRIGUEZ to

attack SUCHLICKI in any way since SUCHLICKI is an ardent anti-

Communist and anti-CASTRO.

LEAD

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will maintain close contact with MM 1337-S and other

logical sources for additional pertinent developments.

2

-

DocId: 32296689

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-16598

UNITED

STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTI

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

March 8, 1973

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

In December, 1972, and January, 1973, information was

received, as previously reported, that CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ

disclosed that his Cuban labor organizations had made arrangements

to begin terrorist activities in the event the United States

an agreement with FIDEL CASTRO of Cuba.

RODRIGUEZ

stated that the principal targets would be ships belonging to

countries which traffic with Cuba and that other targets would

be Diplomatic Offices of countries which maintain relations

with CASTRO. He also included

terrorist attacks against

individuals, Cuban or foreign, in the United States

who collaborate

with or sponsor co-existence with the CASTRO Regime.

It has been previously reported that RODRIGUEZ,

a Cubar exile and former labor leader in Cuba now residing in

Miami, represents the Accion Sindical Independiente (ASI) and

the Junta Cubana Revolucionaria (JCR). The ASI in the labor

group of the JCR.

On February 26,1973, MM T-1, who is acquainted with

some members of the ASI, reported that CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ

had disclosed that he intended to kill 5 individuals in connection

ONE LOn

with his plans which now had

to be put into effect since the

United States had entered into an agreement with Cuba on the

Exempt frenCHS- Categony

-Date

DeclassiFicatio

Number Pe

- Indettnite

SIFIED BE SPUBJA/GeL

6/11/85

2TON CONTAINED

20"2

- 455-94 55578 Mu

052229101-

ENCI OSURE

DocId: 32296689 Page 10

---

## Page 11

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

subject of hijackings. RODRIGUEZ named one of these intended

victims as a Professor JAIME SOSLICKI (phonetic) of the

University of Miami and formerly of Cuba.

SOSLICKI as a Polish professor and member of the "Radical

Left" who had made trips to Chile.

RODRIGUEZ expressed the desire for publicity and

said that he would use a phone name "Comandos Pedro Luis Boitel"

in order to claim credit for these acts of terror.

RODRIGUEZ commented that he is now in the process of

collecting information concerning the habits and routine of

SOSLICKI. RODRIGUEZ did not furnish further details.

On February 26, 1973, Mr. DAVID WIKE, Associate Director

of Security, University of Miami, advised that

a Professor

JAIME SUCHLICKI, a Cuban National of Polish ancestry, is on

the staff at the University of Miami and has been making

international studies on the subject of Latin American

revolutions and counter-revolutions.

He has also authored

books concerning revolutionary activities of students.

One of

his recent books is entitled

"Cuba, Castro and Revolution"

Mr. WIKE described Professor SUCHLICKI as being a research

analyst and anti-Communist. He was also one of the motivators

of the American Institute of Free Labor Development which

concluded several days ago a 2-week session at Miami Beach.

Pertinent information concerning

the alleged threat

made against Professor SUCHLICKI, as described above, was

furnished to Mr. WIKE who said he would immediately notify

Professor SUCHLICKI, the Coral Gables, Florida Police Department

which has jurisdiction over the University of Miami, and

the

Dade County Public Safety Department which has jurisdiction over

Professor SUCHLICKI's residence at 8800 S.W. 54th Terrace.

Mr. WIKE also agreed to immediately provide

security for

Professor SUCHLICKI on the University of Miami Campus.

- 2-

DocId: 32296689 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On February 27, 1973, MM T-l advised that he had

been unable to obtain any additional information

from RODRIGUEZ

who has indicated that at the present time he is laying the

ground work for carrying out his plans.

On March 1, 1973, Special Agents of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation interviewed CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ

at a construction project in the 800 block of Ponce De Leon

Blvd., Coral Gables, Florida, where he was working.

RODRIGUEZ was notified that any violations of Federal

law or State law by Cuban exile organizations or anyone else

based upon opposition to the recent hijacking agreement

between the United States and

Cuba would be vigorously prosecuted.

RODRIGUEZ asserted that his organizations, the ASI

and JCR, have no intention whatsoever of violating any U.S.

laws by attacking ships, diplomatic establishments or any

individuals in the United States or elsewhere, despite the

fact that he is personally opposed to the hijacking agreement.

He explained that his opposition is based upon that portion

of the agreement which requires the U.S. to return to Cuba

RODRIGUEZ said that he has learned from the example

concerning the prosecution by the Federal Government of ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA, a notorious bomber convicted in 1968, that it is

foolish to engage in such acts of violence.

RODRIGUEZ

added, however, that he will, through

freedom of speech, continue to oppose the Communist Regime

Of TIDEL CASTRO and will voice opposition to peaceful co-

existence with Cuba.

RODRIGUEZ said thät he is personally

depressed by the fact that the new generation of Cuban exiles

in this country have little knowledge or interest in the Cuban

problem as it exists today.

-3-

DocId: 32296689 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Airtel

2/23/73

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1

- Mr. R.

J.

Deily

1 - Mr.

J.

R.

Wagoner

1 - Mr. V. H. Nasca

ALL

INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6/31/85

ВУ SР6BJAИ

spsma mol 4015-941551

To: SACS, Miami

Los Angeles

Newark

New York

San Francisco

WrO

Legat, Ottawa

From: Acting Director, FBI 105- 229101-

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

IS - CUBA

BUF ILE:

105-188954

MICILE: 105-16598

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

IS - CUBA

BUF ILE:

105-229101

MMF ILE: 105-20070

ReMilet 2/7/73 with enclosure, coples of which

vere furnished Ottawa and #FO by Bureau.

In

sunmary, data in enclosure indicates that

Conrado Rodriguez Sanchez, a Cuban exile who resides in

Miant and who represents the captioned anti-castro groups,

claimed that an agreement had been reached at a recent

conference in New York City to begin terrorist activities

in the U.s.,

if the U. S. signed an agreement with Castro.

Reportedly, the principal targets would be the ships of

1 - Foreign Liaison Desk (route through for review)

VHN: emj

(22)

UP AT

4186

58MAR® 1973SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

DocId: 32296689

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John I, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC-2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

Airtel to Miami

Re: Accion Sindical Independiente (ASI)

105-188954

countries trading with Cuba and the diplomatic offices

and property of countries which maintain relations with

Cuba as well as property of the

• Castro regime. Rodriguez

stated that they have their best mep for such activities

in New York, New Jersey, Los Angeles, San Francisco,

D. C., and Miami.

Rodriguez also claimed

that terrorist attacks would

be carried out against

individuals, Cuban or foreign, in the U.S. who colloborate with

or sponsor coexistence with the Castro regine. Although

Rodriguez gave no specifie dates as to when such activities

would allegedly take place, he indicated that they would be

put in effect at sone time

in the tuture.

It is absolutely essential that Miami closely

follow this matter, particularly since the U. S. and Cuba

have recently reached an agreement on hijacking.

Recipient offices be certain that all logical

sources and informants are targeted to immediately report

any data which may have bearing on this matter.

In view of the seriousness of the allegations,

Miant promptly interview Rodriguez.

Be certain interview

is handled in such a way that MM 1337-S is not jeopardized.

It not already done, Mlant be certain that appropriate

local police authorities are avare of Rodriguez*

plans.

Keep Bureau currently advised of all pertinent

developments in form suitable for dissemination.

Agents handling this matter should be aware of

the provisions of the recent legislation entitled "Act for

the Protection of Foreign Officials and Official Guests of

the U.S.". In the event

a crime is committed which is

covered

by-the Act,

the Bureau should be immediately advised

in sufficient detail so that a meaningful discussion can be

held with the Department of Justice and a determination made

regarding further action.

- 2-

DocId: 32296689 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

S MAYONAL FORM

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

GSA FPMA (41.CFM) 101-11:0

UNITED STATES OVERNMENT.

Memorandum

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (105-188954) DATE: 2/7/73

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (105-16598)

SUBJECT:

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

IS - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

IS - CUBA

-ENCLOSURE

Re Miami letter, 11/24/73 to the Bureau.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 10 copies of an LHM

dated and captioned as above,

three copies are being fur-

nished New York and

one each

for Los Angeles, Newark, and

San Francisco, for information purposes in view of their

possible future interest in this case.

Copies are being furnished locally to the following:

U,S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida

NISO, Charleston, S.C.

111th M. I. Group, Miami, Florida

CIA, Miami, Florida

U.S. Coast Guard, Miami, Florida

U.S. Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

U.S. Customs,

Miami, Florida

INS, Miami, Florida

OSI, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

This LHM is Classified Confidential since disclosure

of the information could reasonably be expected to cause

damage to the national security by exposing a confidential

source of continuing value.

(3) - Bureau (Enc. 10) (RM)

105-229101-

3 - New York (Enc. 3) (RM)

(2 - 105-99207)

NOT RECORDED

(1 - 105-117673)

1 - Newark (Enc. 1) (RM)

4A FEB 13 1973

SP& Mur mdi

1 - Los Angeles (Enc.

1) (RM)

125.94(57K

1

- San Francisco (Enc. 1) (RM)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

4 - Miami (2 - 105-16598)

MEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

(1 - 105-20070)

DATE 6/34/85

(1

- 134-1539 Sub A)

BYSPORTMECL

GED: bja Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

(13)

ORIGINAL FILED IN 105

DocId: 32296689 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the Domi F. Kemedy Assassinatiur Ret

DATE: 11-14-2017

€o11

USE

Hotel.

MM 105-16598

MM T-1 is MM 1337-S.

MM T-1 has advised that RODRIGUEZ has promised to

keep MM 1337-S advised of additional developments as his

plan progresses.

LEAD

NEW YORK

At New York, New York:

Will contact appropriate sources connected with

the ASI and JCR for any verification and additional infor-

mation relating to the alleged plans as described by

RODRIGUEZ.

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida:

Will maintain close contact with MM 1337-S and

other sources and will promptly advise the Bureau and

interested offices of any additional developments.

DocId: 32296689 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

SONF IDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

In Keply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-16598

Miami, Florida

February 7, 1973

RE :

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Previous investigation has reflected that CONRADO

RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ, a Cuban exile and former labor leader in

Cuba, now residing in Miami, represents the Accion Sindical

Independiente (ASI) (Independent Labor Action) and the Junta

Cubana Revolucionaria (JCR) (Cuban Revolutionary Board). The

ASI is the labor group of the JCR. The ASI is headquartered

in Miami, and the JCR in New York City:

In March, 1972, it

was reported that RODRIGUEZ disclosed that he was making con-

tact with various labor organizations in Latin America to

develop a plan to attack communist and pro-communists in

Latin America:

ALL INTORMARION CONTAINED

Current Developments

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRTED

DATE 415-94 Bx SPS/e

On November 22, 1972, MM T-1 who is acquainted with

some

members of the ASI in the Miami area advised that RODRIGUEZ

disclosed that on November 24 and 25, 1972, there would be a

national conference in New York City of members of the ASI

and the JCR along with some young Cubans who had received

military training. RODRIGUEZ said that although it would

be specifically announced that this was a political meeting,

the real purpose of the convention was to work out plans on

a national level for terrorism in the event United States and

the communist Cuba should reach some kind of an understanding

or political arrangement.

He claimed that if such an agree:

ment was entered into between the United States and Cuba his

group would be ready to carry out sabotage all over the United

states and Canada.

He asserted that he already has explosive

experts located in various parts of the United States.

DCLASSIFIED BY SP6 BIA/GEL

CON

ÖN

6/81/89

Exon

Date

Ped by Howard h

Com-GDS, Category Numise?

eclassifbeation Indetinite

105-229101-

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32296689

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONT

RE:

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

On December 8, 1972, MM T-1 advised that RODRIGUEZ

after returning from the congress in New York City, said

that those in attendance had taken the necessary measures

and reached the necessary agreements so that if the United

States signed an agreement with FIDEL CASTRO,

they could

begin terrorist activities in the United States.

He said

that the principal targets would be ships belonging to

countries which traffic with Cuba. Other targets would

be the diplomatic offices of countries which maintain

relations with CASTRO.

would avoid attacks against American ships or installations

in order to avoid prosecution by United States investigative

agencies. RODRIGUEZ said that the places where they have

their best men for such activities are New York, New Jersey,

Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington, D.C. and Miami.

On Janúary 31, 1973, MM T-1

advised that RODRIGUEZ

had just disclosed that his organization has now established

the necessary connections with various labor organizations

in Latin America and the United States to carry out sabotage

against property of the Castro regime along with the property

of any country which maintains relations of any type with

CASTRO.

RODRIGUEZ pointed out that he has confidential

relations with the AFL-CIO which is willing to make economic

contributions and supply confidential information on the

ports where ships tie up with merchandise from the communist

world.

RODRIGUEZ pointed out that at the moment, more

than

six major organizations in six different countries

have

promised to work together to carry on sabotage activities

against the communist regime in Havana. He also claimed

that they would carry out terrorist attacks against individuals,

Cuban or foreign, in the United States who collaborate with

or sponsor co-existence with the Castro regime. He said

that they already have explosives located in various countries

2.

CONT ID

DocId: 32296689 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

RE :

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

including the United States, where their organization is

the strongest.

MM T-1 said that RODRIGUEZ indicated that these

plans would be put into effect at sometime in the future

but he did not indicate any specific dates. MM T-I said

that RODRIGUEZ has, on previous occasions,

talked about

engaging in organized acts of violence, but has not done

so to date.

MM T-1 described RODRIGUEZ as being a shrewd

individual who has the reputation of having been involved

in acts of violence while a labor leader in Cuba.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your agency. It and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

3*

CONE

IDENTIAL

DocId: 32296689

Page 19

---

