# docid-32327309

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90062-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-85082-34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/13/1961

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

MARVIN KANTOR

REMBERT CAVEN AALLEY JR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

19.1

DocId: 32327309

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under-the John F. Kennedy-Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 105-7568

SECRET

This interview of ALLEY gave the interviewing agents

no reason to believe that ALLEY is being untruthful. Any

impression in that regard which might have arisen from the

original interview is believed to be dispelled by the following

observations:

This reinterview of ALLEY afforded interviewing agents

a further insight of ALLEY's personality which it is felt may

now be safely characterized as one of extreme introversion.

Therefore, while the reaction to the first interview might have

raised a question as to the degree of his cooperation, after the

present interview interviewing agents were more of the opinion

that ALLEY's personality is such that even when completely

cooperative he appears to begevasive or holding back. At is also

believed that fif ABARCHALINE and/or Soviet Intelligence was l

attempting to cultivate or develop ALLEY that&the latter

introversion and general lack of a warm personality would have been

sufficient reason to abandon such a course of action.

As an indication of ALLEY's complete disinterest in

subjects

not associated with architecture, he stated at the outset

of this interview that he had not thought about the first

interview until the arrangement was made for the second. interview.

He said that he had been working night and day on an architectual

project which had been assigned to him plus the fact that he was

recently married.

Following this statement by ALLEY the secondary

lan of approach as outlined inferep was pursued. *He was advise

that the identity of the Soviet had been determined and b

interview was conducted with this thought foremost in ALLEY's

mind.

It is believed, therefore, that ALLEY has furnished all

information within his best recollection.

- B=

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32327309 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Réleased unter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: -11-14-2017

CG 105-7568

SECRET

In the tinal analysist

would appear that because of

ALLEY's negative attitude phist

Slack of moral weakness and

merely screening ALLEY,

Because of ALLEY's nature and personality, Chicago

did not question him specifically regarding the points raised

by the Department of the Navy (outlined in Bulet to Director

2of

Naval Intelligence dated 2/27/61) •

However, the Bureau may!

wish to advise ONI, with its dissemination of this report, of

the following observations and information gained from this

interview which have a bearing on these points.

As evidence that ALLEY and his father do not enjoy

a close relationship is ALLEY's lack of knowledge of details

of his father's employment and the erroneous impression that

his father does not possess security clearance.

It would appear unlikely that ALLEY's father is

aware of his son's activities because of the latter's negative

attitude and the fact that he had assigned no importance to his

association with the Sovietn Copenhagen%

Finally, as to whether ALLEY influences his father,

it is the opinion

of interviewing agents that ALLEY's personality,

which is far from domineering, would militate against this

possibility.

further, since he has indicated his desire to cooperate with thie

Bureau in the event of any correspondence or subsequent contacts

by Soviet personnel Sit is not believed that any additional

interviews or, further investigation of ALLEY is warranted and this

case is being closed.

This report is classified confidential since it reveals

the Bureau'sinvestigative interest

in a representative of a

foreign diplomatic establishment.

-C* -

PAGE

SECRET

diSK

is.!

DocId: 32327309 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT O

JUSTICE

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTI

Copy 8o:

SECRET

Report of:

Date:

SA

LOREN G. ADAMS

6013-61

Field Office File #: 105-7568

Title:

REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY, JR.

Otice:

CHICAGO

Bureau File #: 105-85082

Classified by SPONGi

Declassiy on: DADR JFK

Characier: INTERNAL SECURITY - R DENMARK

Synopsis:

ALLY reinterviewed 6/6/61 regarding association with /LADISLAVIE

(Phonetic), Soviet EmbassyPemployee, Copenhagen, Denmark. -ALLEY

believes he was introducedkto LADISLAVgby: MARVIN KANTOB, U.SAE

citizen.

ALLEY telephonically contacted one timekby MADISLAyL

and arranged to attend movie.

KANTOR, others, and ALLEY visited restaurant following social"

general, family and background nature; does not recall anytrequests

for specific information.

ALLEY advised although

motivated to meet LADISLAV by curiositshe is suspicious of Russians

and alert to any specific inquiry.

ALLEY may have advised LADISLAVS

that his father employed by General Electric,

but stated his father

has no security clearance, also he, ALLEY, did not possess any

classified information which would

have been of benefitzto Soviets

ALLey now feels LADISLAV was more interested in him duringirst

few meetings; later meetings more infrequent, and LADISLAV appeared

less interested and friendly. Because of casual relationship ALLEY

had attached little significance to association.

ALLEY has had no

correspondence or contact with LADISLAV since Copenhagen; said he

would

be surprised to receive any correspondence, but would

immediately advise FBI in such eventualityses

=C=

92497

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sunde

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

5168500/GCL

18-11

ALL. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITTED EXCET*

RHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

GONT IE

TrAD

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned

your agency; it and its contents are act to be distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

DocId: 32327309 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Reteasedyuder the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTIO

Care

June 8, 1961

U

3A.

SECRET

REMBERT CAVEY ALLET, JR, 1415 Ladson, Avenue, Chicago,

Illinois, advised as follows:

ALLEY had tried to recall the circumstances surrounding

his first meeting

the individual ke knew as LADISLAV"

an employee of the

Soviet Embassy 3t Copenhagen, Denmark

He said that

his recollection he was

introducedkto LADISLAV by one of the persons whom he had met atl

He could not be definite but was reasonably sure that

introduction

WAs sure that was the teeth read to cured at the t

Thursday night social gathering held at the pavilion

on the main

street of Copenhagen in September or October, 1959.

ALLEY explained that the reason that he could not be more

definite regarding the date of the first meetingfwith LADISLAVS

was because he attended this social gathering

practically every

Thursday night during his stay in Copenhagen

ALLEY added that he had great difficulty recalling names

of persons, dates and the occurrence of events for the additional

reason that he had met so many people and traveled so extensively

during the one year he spent

in Europe. He apologized for his

inability in this regarde

JENmARK

Concerning MARVIN KANTOR, ALLEY said that he had probably

met KANJOR in the pavilion in Conenhagen, KANTOR, a United States

Citizen who is of Russian ancestry

had expressed interest in

LADISLAY as it afforded KANTOR an opportunity to develop his

proficiency in speaking the Russian language *ALLEY said that at

time had he ever heard KANTOR discuss politics-with LADISLAV nor

had he detected any indication that KANTORKmight be sympathetic

toward the Soviet form of governments)

Alley said he had heard off LADISLAV prior 9 their firstla

meeting. He said that he wanted to meet LADISLAV and explained that

his only motivation in this respect was

one of curiosity.

said

he just wanted tofbe able to say "that he had met a Russian"S

On

6/6/61

_at-

Chicago, Illinois

File #-

105-7568

SAS LOREN G. ADAMS & RICHARD H. NACHTSHE dElored

6/8/61

This document cortains neither recommondations nor conclusions of the FBI. It to the property of the?

your agency; 1l and its contents are not to ho diatributed outside your agency.

SERIFT

DocId: 32327309 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released, under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

* DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 105-7568

SECRET

ALLEY was asked whether all subsequent meetings occurred

in the pavilion,

that he could scall lad LADIslAnd that on only one occasion

said that on that occasion LADISLAV had requested that

ALLEY OX

accompany

comer hit a bisted accompanted him to the movie

ALLEY sald he believed all other meetings occurred at

the pavilion.

He recalled that on one other occasion, MARVIN

CANTOR, LADISLAV, two or three other individuals whose names!

e cannot recalt, And himself had sone to

restaurant for

coffee following the social at the pavilion

ALLEy said that he had probably introduced

other

persons to LADISLAV but could not

recall any specific occasion

or the names of any such persons.

He advised that he could not recall with any degree of

accuracy the matters discussed

but was sure that conversations

were very general in nature.

He explained that by this he meant

that they had discussed their families,

backgrounds and country

of origin as well as their occupation and individual employment

AlLey said that he undoubtedly had informed LADISLAV A CS

of his employment by Arctic Contractors

for the u.s..

asked him whether he was going to Greenland to work.

that he felt sure that had LADISLAV attempted to elicit information

from him regarding

the Greenland Project he would have

recalled

this incident.

he made the above statement to indicate that

he considered

himself as being alert to any inquiry for specific

information which LADISLAV would make.

He said that although he

was curiousato the extent of wanting to meet a Russian he

nevertheless

regards Russians gith suspicion

advise that in discussing their

families he must

have told LADISLAV

chat his father, REMBERT CAVEN ALLEY, SR•, 1S

employed

for the General Electric Company. He

said that he

could not however, recall specifically making this

remark

=3=

SECRET

DocId: 32327309 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CG 105-7568

Concerning his father's employment, ALLEY said that

the former was employed in the Locomotive Division of the General

Electric Corporation.

He said his father sold electrical"

equipment to locomotive builders to the best of his knowledge.

He said that he was sure that his father,

because of the nature

of his employment, did not have any type of security clearance.

ALLEY said that he,

himself, had received a confidential

security Clearance as a result of his brief military career as

an army officer.

He said that he did not feel, however, that he

He said that he did not have access to classified material in

connection with his employment in Copenhagen.

CLADISLAV

electing over the period of his association with

WAlLeY said that he felt that LADISLAV appeared to bel

more interested in him at their first few meetings.

He said that

as evidence of such interest LADISLAV had given him books regarding

architecture as well as excouple Russian covels * ALLEY said he ras

not aware

of any other persons who had been similarly treated by

LADISLAY 5)

hey sald that after several of these meetings, although

ne could not state what exact point or date, LADISLAV did noth

appear quite as triendly or interested in him.

consuming much more offs

his time than previously which allowed him

less time to participate

in the Thursday night social affair

that he now

LADISLAV may have focused

his attention on ALLEY for the

In view of the foregone

purpose of seeing what he could learn.

(5) such was the case

He observed that if

LADISLAV must have become discouraged and decided

that he was wasting his time

ALLEY

that

because of the casualness of his

association wich ADISLAV be had

to this association

might

have

regarded this association in an entirely different

manner

=4=

SECRET

DocId: 32327309

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released wider

the "John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 105-7568

SECRET

BONT

said that he had not received any correspondence

from LADISLAVitor had he written toll LADIOLAVS

He said that he

would be very surpriged if he ever heare

fron the soviet, but

in the event of such

correspondence or any

contactxby Soviet S)

personnel he would immediately

advise the

DAS+ SECRET

DocId: 32327309 Page 8

---

