# docid-32327833

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90066-10074

HQ

92-3960-119

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 01/03/1969

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS:

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT .

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

49.1

DocId: 32327833

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

11-14-2011

5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

1/3/69

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Priority)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT :

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3960)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-1108)

SALVATORE

GRANELLO aka

AR

Stati

Cite

ReNYtels 12/24 and 27/68.

On 1/2/69, NY 6436-C-TE advised he has learned that l

SALVATORE GRANELLO, father of murder victim MIKE GRANELLO, is

greatly upset and angered over the killing of his son.

According to informant, GRANELLO will check with his

"skipper" (LCN "boss") in attempt

to learn if LCN ordered this

action or if it was result of some unidentified persons acting

on their own.

If latter, GRANELLO reportedly will determine

their identities

and take retributive action upon his release

from FCI, Danbury. GRANELLO is tentatively scheduled for release

in about sixty days.

Through NY 3446-C-TE, the NYO has learned of severl

recent actions on the part of MIKE GRANELLO, any of which could

have resulted in his murder. Included in this, is the reported

"contract" to

"hit" GRANELLO, which arose from a"sitdown"

of lower Bast Side hoodlums in October, 1968.

Accordingly, NY is making arrangements to have

SALVATORE GRANELLO contacted by Special Agents at

FCI,

in order to elicit any information he may wish to furnish

Danbury,

concerning LCN participation in his son's killing.

VACB.

Bureau

New. York

Attempt will be made to contact GRANELLO on 1/9/68,

REC 27

EX-113

92-3960-114

EJM: RM

(5)

25 JAN

1969

Approv

- JAN 1 8/ 1969

Spe

Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

DocId: 32327833 Page 2

---

