# docid-32307906

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10293-10264

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2121

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

09/08/1967

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32307906

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assasgination Recorus Collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAN DIEGO

VIA TELETYPE

SEPS

1967

ENCIPHERED

Mr. Tolson.

Mr.

Mr. Moht

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callapan..

000-3-000

445 PM URGENT 9-8-67 CND

TO DIRECTOR

92-6054 AND LOS ANGELES 92-1112

FROM SAN DIEGO 92-229

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan...

Mr. Tavel.-

Mr. Trottet....

Tele. Room..

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

Anti-racketeering

Office of Origin

CLA COSA NOSTRA, MR - CONSPIRACY, DO NED YORK

Rut

Top Echelon Informant

SD TEN SIXTYFOUR DASH E DASH FE ADVISED THAI PURSUANT

La Cosa Nostra

TO INSTRUCTIONS FROM COMMISSION, THE OFFICERS OF THE L6N

LOS ANGELES FAMILY HAD A MEETING AND SELECTED NICK LICATA

AS THE NEW BOSS OF THE LOS ANGELES FAMILY FOLLOWING RECENT

DEATH OF FRANK DESIMONE. ALSO PURSUANI TO INSTRUCTIONS,

ALL MEMBERS ARE BEING CONTACIED INDIVIDUALLY TO DETERMINE

IF THEY ARE IN AGREEMENT WITH SELECTION OR IF THEY DESIRE

TO NOMINATE ANY OTHER MEMBERS. THESE INDIVIDURES ARE

SCHEDULED FOR ANOTHER MEETING APPROXIMATELY TWO AND A HALF

WEEKS AFTER SEPTEMBER ONE LAST TO REPORT ON RESULTS OF

INDIVIDUAL POLL. EXACT DATE AND LOCATION OF MEETING UNKNOWN;

HOWEVER, INFORMANT FEELS THAT MEETING PLACE MAY BE ARRANGED

BY DIPPOLITO AND POSSIBLY MAY BE HELD IN CUCAMONGA AREA.

CALIFORNIA. STATES THAT IF ALL MEMBERSTARE IN AGREEMENT

WITH SELECTION THEN LICATA WIEL BE

BOSS…"

-HOWEVER, IF SANY

ENTE PAGE ONE

CODE EN REGE-6054-66210

-10618

15%

"I SEP 15196) 16 de does

• 62 SEP 22 1967K

X2.45/

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

Hotey.

DocId: 32307906 Page 2

---

