# docid-32295475

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10251

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-447

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

• TO: SAC, MI

TITLE:

DATE:

*PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

09/24/1963

LCN, APR, ASSOC, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295475

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC

21U7 Toter:

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, M1lwaukeo

9/28/63

Director, FBI

THE CRIKINAL "COMKISSION" IT AL.

MILWAUKEE DIVISION

Rerep of SA John A. Holtznan dated 5/10/62 at

Milwaukee

and rep of SA James P. Flynn dated 6/29/62 at

New York.

The Departnent in review of rerep of SA Flynn has

indicated a desire to have nore complete background data on

one Angelo Provenzano, who is listed on pago 67 of rerep of

SA Plynn and who is described as being made good use of by

the organization because of his local political connections.

It is noted that on pago 1l of rerep of SA holtzman,

MI T-4, who 1s 1dentified as MI 618-PC, advised SA John H.

GAsSAWAY In January, 1958, that one AngeLO Provenzano was

used by the organization for his connections among local

politicians. Milwaukee should recontact XI 618-PC and deter-

mine full particulars and background of this Provenzano who

allegedly is utilized by the hoodlus organization because

of his so-called political connections.

Subnit results of this inquiry by 10/4/63.

/TAK: a588p9

1.447

**

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

is it median in di no

DocId: 32295475 Page 2

---

