# docid-32308491

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10294-10349

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-77

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information •

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/19/1963

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, MEMBERS, CRIM ACT, ARREST, LEGAL ACT,

ACA, ASSOC, JBS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

WH 53074 DocId: 32308491

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTI

HEROIN

KUNCLASSIA

EXCEPT

WERE SHOWN

Classified I

Declassify

1308тА

OPTIONAL FORM NO: TÓ

5010-4104

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

CONFID

ENTIAL

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1693)

DATÉ: 2/19/63

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (2-312) (P)

SUBJECT

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION

FORCES. (INTERPEN)

NEUTRALITY MATTER HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ANS.

00 - Miami

DECI ASSISICATION ANDIOR,

BY:

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 11-13-97

Re Miami letter, with enclosures, 12/6/62.

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of a letterhead

memorandum, suitable for dissemination.

One copy of the letterhead memorandum is being

furnished U.S. Customs locally, in view of their interest

in this matter

CC

loto

stacio.

REQ. 'REC'D..

S-9-62

MAY 2 2 1967

Bug

MM T-1 is

MT. WALIACE SHANLEY, U.S. Customs, Miami, advised

that Attorney CHARLES ASHMANN, counsel for the 13 arrested

members of INTERPEN,

"filed a motion with the U.S. District

Court, Miami, to the effect that the U.S. Customs and

the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), had engaged in

entrapment of the persons arrested for over à 2-year period

of time. Attorney ASHMANN threatened to subpoena two CIA

Agents to testify in Federal Court; however, ASHMANN did

not know who they were

their names or their whereabouts.

Acting U.S

Mx. SHANLEY concer

*torney EDITH HOUSE, Miami, called

the entrapment.

SHANLEY explained

2

Bureau: (Enc-9) (RM)

Miami

RJD : pmc

(4) 1

77

REC- 52-

EX-1761.028 FEB 21 1963

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO/INS/ DIA-2

ONI/OST/ACSI / Castoma

by routing slip for into.

5 WAR 50

CONHIDS

VIIAT

NH 53074

Doc1d: 32308491

Page 2

---

