# docid-32309380

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10167

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-163558-1

Released under the John

kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NT

53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/28/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LRA, CUBAN GROUPS, ACA, FINANCIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC S/S

v9.1

H4 53130

DooId: 32309380

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR,

FBI

DATE:

2/28/67

SAC

NEW ORLEANS (105-2905) (e)

SUBJECT:

A1.1.

RiCA

OTHENWIS

®

GOR

NOLASSIFIERIS: - CUBA

CREATE ORURANDERO DE CUBANOS

ORLEANSa

ERE SHOWN

1-25-95

Classified hy 50& MAC/uste

Declassity on: OAD:

An information copy is being furnished Miami in view

of their interest in Cuban matters.

and

The following information was furnished by sources

informants familiar with the Cubans in New Orleans and

the surrounding area:

On 1/5/67, CARLOS de la VEGA, who is the Director

the past 4 or 5 years has been a source of information in

Cuban matters of the New Orleans Office, advised that the CAlu)

Ce was formed in November, 1965, in order to unite the leaders

•of various Cuban groups in the New Orleans area.

of

The purpose

the CCC was to have some method of coordinating the activities

of these groups so that their anti-Castro activities might

be more effective and give strength to their common cause.

The chairman of this committee is LUIS RABEL. There is some

indication that RABEL may consider giving up

his position as

chairman of this committee.

it's

DECLASSIFIED

On 2/23/67,

PSI SALVADOR ACOSTA advised that LUIS

RABEL-was the head of the euban Coordinating Committeef

New Orleans until approximately two months ago. RABEL resigned

"his position as the head of this group as there appeared to

be a lack of interest and funds. The purpose of the CCC was

coordinate efforts of the various anti-Castro Cuban groups

in the New Orleans area.

ACOSTA advised he does not believe

the CCC is functioning at this tine.

210.

On 2/17/67, LUIS RABEL, a source of New Orleans Office

regarding cuban matterêx-lla the past, 4 or 5 years, advised that

Bureau (RM)

- Miami (Info)

(RM)

}EC TO

16095

7 - New Orleans

1105-163558-1

PDF: sab

4)

0.19 t NO

PAS

diese

sutrol t303-4

AR

= 1967)

patr

MET NO MAR Z 119671

TONN

Whosal

KITA

5010-108-01

Don Td: 3

2309380

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 105-2905

PDF: sab

Pass al

he was the former head of the CCC in New Orleans.

He stated

that the purpose of the CCC was to coordinate efforts by various

anti-Castro groups in New Orleans.

RABEL commented that his

group held only several meetings and due to lack of funds

and lack of support he decided to resign his position as head

of this group about two months ago. RABEL. advised that to his

knowledge the-CCC is not functioning at this time as it is very

difficult to solicit funds from the Cubans in New Orleans for

this cause.

New Orleans is placing this matter in a closed status

due to the lack of activity of this group and the lack of support

by Cubans in the New Orleans area.

New Orleans will reopen

this case upon the

receipt of information that the CCC has

reactivated and is coordinating activities of anti-Castro

groups in New Orleans.

HH 53130 DocId: 32309380

Page

---

