# docid-32305334

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10464

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-3RD NR 342

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/10/1967

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, CUBAN NATIONALIST MOVEMENT, MEETING, ACA,

EXPLOSIVES, ARMS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32305334

Page 1

36

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

0.$N6LF0581d0, 10

TIRES STATES GUVERVMENT

Memorandum

DENJOTOR, 22I (109-584)

DATE: 6/26/57

state/cru/socret service/.:o.4s6/1123

200H: SHO, MTO (105-29955) (RUC)

army/Navy/air Foree/DIa/Euetous/Coasiaaz6

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, State/vs

Sy R/S FOr Info

SUBJECT: ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES Date-_'1-4-424

IS - CU

(00 :MM)

(eNn) aud

97-041194

ReWFOairtel dated 5/18/67.

Enclosed to the Bureau are nine copies and to Miami

tio copies of an liM dated and captioned as above.

Informant mentioned in the enclosure is former

WE 1414-S, who contacted SA JAMES M. COADY•

SAs mentioned in the enclosure are ROBERT N. WALi and

VI. NADE POMESLEY • Indices check re Movimiento Insurrecional

de Recuperacion de la Patria and VALERIO JUAN CAPOTE is contained

in reaistel. Indices at WFO are negative re information identi-

fiable with MARTIN CAPOTE and JOSE CRESPO.

Inspector BEYE, U.S. Park Police, noted that only the

Park Polica afforded coverage

to the picketing of The White

Fouse, corsequently the Metropolitan Police Department was not

recontacied regarding this matter.

PINEIRO, mentioned in the IHM, was interviewed by

SAS CHARLES E, LENNON and JOHN G. GOEDTEL.

WrO taking no further action.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

92-106

HEREIR IS UNCLE SINCL

DATE 9

23/85 BY S600NGEL

REC 32

3/11/95

5008 CLAGAT IF

Liza (Enes. SYNCLOSU

(105-1742) (Encs. 2) (R)

13454487 Sald)

JaS :sis

3: 5r65)

196

# JUN 30 1967

97-4014=

2. JUL 10:037

LATIN APES

nl...

DocId: 32305334 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 M

DATE: 11-11-2017

. *

SECRET

•

PAGE IWO

SEVERAL OTHER MIRR AND CUM MEMBERS ATTENDED.

ALTHOUGH THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING OR WHAI WAS

DISCUSSED WAS UNKNOWN TO SOURCE BOSCH TOLD SOURCE HE

NEEDED PLASTIC EXPLOSIVES, M - ONE TIMEFIRING DEVICES CLA- •

PIZEROSS AND FIFTYSEVEN MILLIMETER RECOILLESS RIFLE SHELLS.

ON JUNE NINE SIXTYSEVEN BOSCH SAID HE HAD AN IMPORTANT

MEETING SCHEDULED THAT NIGHT AT THE HOME OF JOSE. ANTONIO

ELET GONZALEZ, LOKS TIME MINA ACTIVIST AND TREASURER OF

MIRR. BOSCH DID NOT STATE THE PURPOSE OF LIE MEETING

OR UNO WOULD ATTEND. HE REQUESTED SOURCE TO CALL HIS AT

EIGHT THIRIY PIL ON JURE NINE SIXTYSEVEN.

SOURCE CONTACIED BUSCH AT EIGHT THIRTY PI JUNE NINE

SIXTYSEVEG WHEN BUSCH AGAIN REQUESTED SOURCE TO PRY TO

LOCATE EXPLOSIVES 2ÃO ARMS PREVIOUSLY MEDTIO.EDO LOCCH

ADVISED NE UOULD RECONTACI SOURCE ON JUNE TEN SINVALIEN

TO FIND OUT WHAT SUCCESS SOURCE HAD IN LOCATINO EARL

EQUIPMENT.

END PAGE IVO

DocId: 32305334

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 M

DATE: 11-14-2017

...

SECRETI

PAGE FOUR

ADMINISTRATIVE. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS MM SIX THREE .

FIVE DASH SO TELETYPE BEING S

PROTECI A SENSITIVE SOURCE OF CONTINUING VALUE.

PESTONIT WAS REFERRED TO MR. HENRY TAYLOR, STATE

ISMiGRATION GHA NATURALIZATION.

INS, MIAMI, ADVISED RIVERO MADE SAME PROPOSAL TO

INS AND MANTED TO CONTACI CIA. INS REFUSED TO ACT AS

INTERMEDIARY. US CUSTOMS, MIAMI, ADVISED THEY WERE NOT

INTERESTED IN ANY DEAL WITH RIVERO.

MIAMI WILL MAINTAIN CONTACT. WITH MN SIX THREE FIVE.

DASH S AND KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

NEW YORK AND NEHARK ADVISED AM.

SUCOP.

END

• :

DocId: 32305334

Page 1

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017117169-29-65)

=..5

..

S

RET

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Doie - 6/10/67

CUBNAT is code name for Cuban

Nationalist Movement (CNM) anti-Castro

organization headed by Felipe Rivero

Diaz.

CNM was engaged in efforts to

bomb the Cuban pavilion at EXPO 67 on

5/30/67. CNM detonated explosive near

the Cuban pavilion.

Immigration has revoked Rivero's

refugee status and be has been incar-

cerated since 5/12/67.

CNM has recently aligned itself with

the Movimiento Insurrectional de

Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR)

another anti-Castro organization headed

by Orlando Bosch Avila.

Attached data was disseminated by

teletype to the Department of State,

CIA, military agencies and Secret Servic®.

Ottawa

We are closely following alt aspedes

of this matter.

RHH: mar

ALL INTORRATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

#211,32

Classified iN SPLEJA KO

SEORED

Declasghly art OADR/s

77-4474-345

CUFK

DocId: 32305334

Page 5

---

