# docid-32565018

## Page 1

SAC, Philadelphia (02-441 Sub A)

REC- 26

Director, FBI (92-2339) - 221

RUSSELL: BUFALINO

AR

JUNS

6/5/64

1

. - J. D. Donohue

1

M. F. Row

1 - Electronics Section,

Laboratory

1 - K. A. Lofgren

MAILED 5

JUN

5 1964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Fans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmege

Gandy

Reurairtol 6/2/64.

Provided full security assured,

authority granted

to install a misur in the subjectie business office, 119

North Main Street, Pluiston, Pennsylvania.: Promptly advise

Bureau when synbol number assigned and source activated.

This authority is for a 30-day period tron date source

activated.

"In the event you? reconnend source be continued

beyond

the authorized period,

submit your recommendations

one week prior to the expiration of this authority.

Furnish the bureau a woekly airte. summary oi

signiticant piornation obtained ison ta1s cource.

COMM-FB!

NOTE:

The subject is one of the most important underworld

figures in the nation.

He attended the 1957 Apalachin hoodlum

meeting and has a long history of racket activity in the New York-

Pennsylvania area,

He is an important underworld figure in the

racket-ridden garment industry in New York-Pennsylvania, and is

in close contact with underworld leaders in that industry in

New York City. There is a definite need to develop additional

information regarding subject's activity. PHO reports having

unique opportunity to install misur coverage in the subject's

business office at the present time since he has requested telephone

service at his business office.

This service will be installed on

6/9/64. A misur installation can be made by an SA of the PHO

acting under pretext of being a telephone installation man.

The cost of the leased line to monitor this source in the

PHO will

be from $350 to $400 per month. This method of

monitoring the source at the PHO would be considerably less

expensive than the operation of a separate plant in the

of Pittston, Pennsylvania,

an employee

to the resident agency to monitor.

In view of the

importance of Bufalino in the underworld, and since there is an

excellent opportunity to establish misur

coverage with security,

it is

recommended the request

of the PHO be approved.

JEK: rap

(8)

ROUKE TY LIVELOCA

gift

HIN TAR 296

leTELETYPE UNIT

NW 45739 DooId: 32565018

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Rev. 12-13-56)

pit-

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 6/2/64

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2839)

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-441 SUB A)

RUSSELL BUFALINO

AR

JUNE..

Enclosed herewith is an FD 142 requesting authoriza-

tion for installation of

microphone coverage at the new business

address of captioned subject, 119 North Main Street, Pittston,

Pa.

Philadelphia, prior to the current time, has been

at a disadvantage because of the labor troubles in the

telephone company in the area surrounding the Scranton and

Wilkes-Barre Resident Agencies.

All problems have been

alleviated and complete cooperation is now available which

will enable Philadelphia to make the requested installation

with complete security.

The installation will be made by

a sound agent under pretext of a telephone installation man.

and the service is being delayed by the telephone company

until Tuesday, 6/9/64. Time is of the essence.

Philadelphia is sending to the Laboratory,

Attention

It is requested

that this phone be altered by placing a mate or something

similar in the network of the phone.

This method will

afford best available security for this type of installation.

Bureau (92-2839) (Enc1. 1P4KM)

Philadelphia (92-441 Sub

92-2839-221

1049

JRP : EMR

(4)..

(ENCLOSURE

TSUN 352000

* t = Wick

Approved:

Sent

Riêt

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45739 DooId: 32565018 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-142 (Rev. 2-6-64)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. KEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-2839

) DATE:

JUNE

6/2/64

: SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-441. SUB A)

" SUBJECT:

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

RUSSELL. BUEALINO

Character of Case AR

Field Office

Philadelphia

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance (TechnioxXXx

Microphone)

1.

Name and address of person or organization on whom surveillance is to be

placed:

RUSSELI A. BUFALINO, 304 East Dorrance Street, Kingston, Pa.

2. A. Address where installation is to be made (set forth exact room

number or area to be covered): 119 North Main Street, Pittston,

2nd floor, A.B.S: Contracting Company

Par Location where monitoring plant is to be maintained:

B.

Central Monitoring Plant at Philadelphia, Pa.

3. Previous and other current installations on the same subject:

None.

Bureau has previously authorized coverage at

former

address of subject which could not be effected due to security

in the neighborhood. Bureau by letter 10/24/63, withdrew the

authority in this regard.

REC- 26

4. Cost and manpower involved:

No additional manpower is anticipated in monitoring Centra

92 - 2839221

Plant. Cost of running leased line from Pittston,

Pa., to

Philadelphia would be $3.00 per air mile and estimated mileage

of 120 miles. Estimated cost per leased line - Sa croone

per month.

1 JUN

1964

5. Adequacy of security:

Complete security or installation will not be

1 - Bureau (92-2839) (RM)

1 - Philadelphia (92-441

Sub A)

DOD

NW 45739 DooId: 32565018 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441 Sub A

1l. Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

Confidential informants can furnish movements of subject.

Philadelphia, however, has been unable to develop a confidential

source in the Wilkes-Barre - Scranton area that can furnish

information as to the current activities of LaCosa Nostra

12. Risks of detection involved:

Philadelphia contemplates the utilizing of an altered 500 series

telephone.

Inspection of this type installation by telephone

personnel does

not reveal

presence of a microphone.

• 13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

90 day trial period recommended.

14. Request made for technical surveillance by any outside agency

(name specific official, title and agency:

i None.

- 3 -

HH 45739

DooId: 32565018

Page 4

---

