# docid-32295105

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10214-10381

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4546-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/17/1967

38

MR, AKA, ASSOC, ACA, JURE, EMP, CUBAN EXILE, TEST,

CORRECTION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

N₩ 45937

DocId: 32295105

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Eduardo Jose Carbonell'

exile, entered the US sometime after 1963.

SECRET arbonell (105-152035); a Guban

In Miami, Florida, he.

joined. JURE.

However, he was separated from JURE about the time when

Manuel Ray. Rivero tried to enter Cuba (date not given), as there were

some unclear points concerning Carbonell's past activities. (CIA) #(U)

157132035-1P.1

(14,39)

The 4/26/64 issue of the Washington "Sunday Star," reported

that Pedro Entenza (105-140095) was then JURE representative in Wash-

ington, D.C. It further stated that he had worked for Manolo Ray, when

Ray was

Minister of Public Works of Cuba under Fidel Castro (date not

given).

105-140095-1 p.4

(20%

On 4/28/64, PSI Dimas Armando Perez Torron (protect identity)

advised that Gaston Riera (105-132887) was a Cuban refugee who was

working at the Morton Plant Hospital, Clearwater, Florida at that

time.

Riera, the Clearwater delegate to JURE, claimed to be "close"

head of JURE.

no the can ta penta face eat me international

105-132887-2 p.1

(207

By letter dated 2/8/66; Andrew St. George, free lance

photographer and magazine reporter working in Florida advised that

he had solved the enigma of the impressive arsenal of Mitchell

Wer Bell, III (62-108665), and stated as follows:

He accompanied Manuel Ray Rivero, when Ray attempted

unsuccessfully to enter Cuba in May, 1964.

St. George was absolutely

sure that the same set of weapons in the possession of Wer Bell as of

January, 1966, were the same ones which had been assembled for Ray's

invasion attempt in May, 1964. Somehow or other, Wer Bell had gotten:

hold of the entire lot of Ray's weapons. It was St. George's personal

opinion that Wer Bell was using the weapons to raise funds and other

support.

It was noted that allegations had been made that Wer Bell

was developing plans to assassinate Fidel Castro.

62,308665-23 p.3-4

SECRET!

-7-

NW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ÜLUKET

Dr. Herminio Fortell Vila, a Cuban exile journalist.

5431 Connecticut Ave., Nw, Washington, D.C.

advised that he believed

that Jorge Julian Beruff Jimenez (105-132553) was in May, 1964, con-

nected (location not given) with Manuel ("Manolo") Ray Rivero, leader

of the JURE.

09-139333-29.

12,20,20,379

While furnishing information she believed of value in the

Lee Harvey Oswald (105-82555) investigation, Miss Josephine Miller,

Drift, Kentucky, advised on 8/7/64 as follows: She observed a

photograph of Manuel Ray, described as

Bat Ray ne dad one a karen 15, 4 un 5 6 2 29ро -

edly working as a construction engineer at the Jenny Wiley State Park,

Prestonsburg,

Ky. She met Marsh in Prestonsburg in 1963,

through

Howard Caddell who said he was working for Marsh.

Miss Miller said

that Caddell

stated he was with the CIA at the time he was in Prestons-

burg and she believed that he might have been connected with Ray, since

his photograph strongly resembled Marsh.

105-82555-4665, p.7-8

(3%

In the Spring of 1964, a 32-day mobilization of men took

place in Cuba.

This mobilization took place before and after 5/20/64,

when an invasion attempt by exile forces led by Manuel Ray River

vas anticipated by the Castro Government. (CIA) C(U)

213=7-210-3647 p.1

(15,40%

1(21)

MM 639-S advised that Laureano Batista Falla, Military Chief

of Movimiento Democrata Cristiano

of Manuel Ray to be in Cuba on 5/20/64, had

-4110), claimed that the failure

caused the death and impris-

onment of a number of underground members 'in Cuba.

Batista claimed

Ray had lost his following in Cuba; he was considered a part of the

"sad past,

and was considered a

Cuba.

dead

issue" by the underground in

Я И)

97-4110-123 p.3

(27

SECRET

NN 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SLUKED

(continued)

Leader, and that the "MR" had nothing to do with it. (CIA (U)

105-112098-475 p.1

(5%

On 7/27/64, at Miami,

Florida,

Sergio Lopez Ruiz de Porras,

Communications Chief for SFNE (105-112098) said that he had received

message from

Eloy Gutierrez Menyo, Military leader of SFNE, informing

him that Gutierrez intended

to go ahead with his plan to enter Cuban

territory.

Lopez said he believed the SFNE was counting on a large.

number of rebel army officers and also many prominent persons

with a

following in the Cuban Government, to join him at the opportune moment.

He said he knew that Manuel Ray Rivero, leader of JURE, also had similar

connections, but SFNE felt that the officers and prominent persons

surrent opennantar

would join the person who entered cuba First. (CEN) (U)

105-112098-489 p.'

(5,32

Carlos Zarraga Martinez, PSI (protect identity) advised

on 7/28/64, that the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133) raid against Puerto Pilon, Cuba, on '5/13/64, was the only

raid conducted by the MRR. According to Zarraga, Manuel Ray and other

leading figures in the Cuban exile community in Miami, Florida,

claimed that MRR conducted this raid to offset press publicity given

to Ray during May, 1964.

Ray also claimed that the raid was motivated

by political considerations.

97-4133-115 p.4-5

(2,31%

On 7/29/64, Juan Casanovas Garrido (105-125608) (location'

the political advisor to Manuel Ray.

According to Casanovas,

visited Bosch contantly in Puerto Rico before Ray went (date not given)

to Miami.

(CIA) CX(U)

105-125608-27 p.3

SI 105-102049-221 p.4

(5%

SECRETL

-11-

HW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

In August, 1964, Jose Garcia Valdez, an associate

Manuel Ray Rivero,

furnished information concerning an SNFE encamp-

ment on Williams Island and Andros Island In the Bahamas. (CIA) (A)(U)

105-112098-507 p.1

(5,32)

1) (e) Lon 8/14/64, at Miami, Florida, Antonio Cuesta and Ramon

rised that they were two of the

military leadèrs of Comandos I

(105-117222), an anti-Castro organization, which had conducted raids

in the past against Cuba.

They further advised that Manuel Ray Rivero

was then operating out of the Dominican Republic, and Comandos I had

arranged for a base there too.

105-117222-186 p.2

(37%

Joaquin Godoy (protect identity), Coordinator of the MRP

(105-92704) in Miami, advised on 8/19/64,

that JURE, which was headed

by Manolo Ray, had been contributing $400:00 per month to "Replica,"

but was being compelled to discontinue these payments due to lack of

funds. "Replica"

was a small anti-Castro publication published in

Miami. MRP was also forced to discontinue their contributions to

Replica" for the same reason.

105-92704-95 p.3

(18)

In August and September, 1964, Carlos A. Zarraga Martinez,

PSI (protect identity) advised as

follows:

He was an officer of JURE which was headed by Manuel Ray

Rivero. Ray would not join or cooperate with RECE, Cuban Representa-

tion in Exile, and he (Ray) felt that RECE would have little success in

forming unity among the Cuban exile groups.

Since the 5/20/64 failure

of Ray to effect an operation inside Cuba, JURE had suffered a psycho-

logical letdown.

his letdown has been compounded by Ray's July, 1964

failure to infiltrate Cuba.

In July of 1964, Ray was stopped bi

US

Customs Agents at Key West, Florida, and in a subsequent attempt to go

to Cuba, he was stopped by the US Coast Guard. Rogelio Cisneros, head

of JURE

in Ray's absence, resigned, and minor groups withdrew from

JURE.

The Dominican Republic (DR)

refused JURE permission to set up

a military base, stating that while JURE sought permission to set up

a. base, Ray sat in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and conferred with the DR

Provisional Governor's political enemy, Juan Bosch, past President

abp

(continued)

'SECRET

-12-

HW

45937 DocId:32295105

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECKET

In connection with the request mentioned in the preceding

reference, Manuel Ray Rivero was contacted on 9/25/64 at the home of

advised JURE had

+ go e 10 40

and rule of JURE, which was to fight Castro from within Cuba.

said he had no information concerning the identity of those responsible

For the attack, (>21)

Manuel Varèla Castro, 149 East 3rd St., Hialeah,

Florada, in one June ran operations ne had at mos

sible for JURE to have condu, ted the attack.

operation. The launch

Cuba. (date not given) had been sold. JURE ship

aock in the Dominican Republic and the boat "Gina" was at Miami and was

up for sale. ('(u)

The

State Department was advised of this matter by letter

dated 9/30/64.

2-1877-37 p.1-2

• 11,307

SI as paragraph 1:

2-1877-A

"The Miami News" 9/16/64

(17)

SI as paragraph 1:

2-1877-A Washington Capital News

(177

Service 9/18/64

On 9/4/64, Manuel Ray Rivero advised that JURE had suffered

some setbacks but still planned to infiltrate into Cuba before the.end

of 1964. Ray said that the recent resignations of leading individuals

and groups from JURE was a weeding-out process, and in 'the best interest

of the organization.

Ray claimed to have representatives in and cooper-

ation from the Dominican Republic.

On 9/28/64, Carlos A. Zarraga Martinez (protect identity)

advised that he was previously in charge of supplies for JURE.

Zarraga

charged

that Ray worked in an autocratic

manner, lacked organization

ability, and insisted on being the "

starl of the organization.

Zarraga advised that he and a small action group resigned

'from JURE in June,, 1964, as he felt that Ray had failed.

Several other

independent groups

left of center, Joined Zarraga and his group.

Their thesis was to

and would follow the thinking of Ray.

(continued)

SECRET

-16-

NH 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 6

---

## Page 7

(continued)

SECRET

In October, 1964, Zarraga stated that it had been reported

that Ray donated some military equipment to Pierre Rigo, a Haitian

political exile leader in the US.

(24, 22, 38, 4388-1,5-6

9,8.16

In early October, 1964, while in Caracas, Venezuela on a

tour, representatives of Cuban Representation in Exile, aka RECE

(105-126039) claimed that

they had succeeded in unifying the combat

forces of the Cuban exiles.

This included the lieutenants of Manolo

Ray, who were disgusted with Ray's deceitful conduct. The lieutenants

were told to romein where they wers tor the time beins: ictar")

105-126039-16 p.2

(19%

In early October, 1964, it was reported that factionalism

and mutual: distrust continued to prevent any cooperation in planning

between the principal active Cuban exile groups.

Eloy Gutierrez

Menoyo, military leader of SFNE (105-112098) (location not given)

had issued strict instructions that there should be no collaboration

at any'level with JURE during the process of infiltrating Cuba.

Gutierrez had no faith in the ability or willingness of Manuel

JURE's leader, to adhere

105-112098-540 p.?

(5%

On 10/9/64, Juana Castro Ruz (105-66204), sister of Fidel

Castro, arrived in Miami, Florida, from Mexico City. Many_ prominent

Cuban exiles were on hand to greet her, among them Manuel Ray. X (M

(815-SY "The Miami Herald," Miami, 10/10/64)

*C)

105-66204-25 p. 2,6

Georgia Vila Arias (protect identity), who was present in›

the reception room of Juana Castro (105-66204) at the Hotel DuPont

Plaza, Miami, Florida, on October 14 and 15, 1964 and interviewed Juana

briefly on 10/15/64, advised as follows:

(continued)

-17-

SECRET

NN 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 7

---

## Page 8

C

(continued)

SECRETI

During the previously mentioned period there appeared to

be from five to ten people visiting Juana at almost all times.

Manuel

Ray was present in the suite on each occasion. Vila regarded Ray as a

man possessing dangerous socialist tendencies, who probably would not:

return any private property to owners in Cuba

if he should come to

power there, and as an' individual who'was certainly anti-American.

Vila noted the presence of a woman known as Adela in Juana's

reception room, who indicated

that she was

a very close friend of Ray.

Vila stated that she did not feel that Ray and the other

radical leaders around Juana

were friends of the US.

105-66204-26 p. 2,4-5

(3%

On October 16 and 22, 1964, Alicia Rivas Cardoso Vda

De Rodriguez (105-132664) advised of

an anti-Castro underground

organization within Cuba as of July, 1964, when she left Cuba.

She

stated that this organization consisted of all of the leading

• anti-

Castro groups within Cuba, excluding JURE, led by Manolo Ray.

105-132664-7 p.2

(20%

On: 10/22/64, MM 974-S advised

that Syla Roque Cuervo Castillo

(105-135366), after leaving* the US military, service, became a military

instructor for Manuel Ray Rivero, aka. Manolo Ray, leader of JURE.

105-135366-3 p.2

(28,387

*Cuervo was discharged from the. US Army on 3/16/64, according to

seriäl 1 in this same file.

• On 10/28/64, Sila Maria, ,Segredo Carreno (105-125518) advised

that she was a member of JURE in NYC.

She stated that. she was well

known to Manolo Ray and he was the only one who could vouch for her

• anti-Castro attitude.

105-125518-17 p.7-8

(19%

SECRET!

-18-

NW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECKET

on 10/29/64, it was reported that two fairly good-sized

boats, which belonged to JURE, were delivered (date not given) by

JURE leader Manuel Ray Rivero

to the SNFE-Alpha 66 (105-112098).

The boats were delivered in Puerto Rico and Antonio Veciana Blanch

Treasurer of SNFE, was present at the time of delivery.

(MM. 847.-S)

105-112098-530 p.1

(5,32)

SI 105-112098-538 p.1

(32)

SI 105-112098-541 p.23

(32%

SI 105-112098-550 p.2,9

(32)

On 11/1/64, at Miami, Florida, Orlando Puente Perez,

Secretary to former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras, said that

a group of 12 Cubans in the Miami area had banded together and

were

trying to form a Cuban Government-in-Exile (105-95357). The men

forming the group included Prio, Manuel Ray Rivero, Aureliano Sanchez

Arango, Carlos. Marquez Sterling, Guillermo Martinez Marque "pepin"

Manuel Cortina, Felipe Pasos, Manuel Urrutia Lleo, Jose M.

Bosch Lamarque, Justo Carrillo Hernandez,

Antonio

De Varona Loredo,

and Manuel Artime Buesa. The members were trying to get established

in Braz11. *'(U)

JullO Amoedo,

former Argentine Ambassador to Cuba, just

prior to November, 1964, made a trip through Latin America

attempting

to gain support for the

group.

He met with Brazilian Foreign Minister

Vasco Leitao Da Cunha and his wife.

Leitao did not commit himself to

any one man as head of the group but his wife spoke out in favor of

Ray.

Puente claimed that it was doubtful that the Cuban exiles would

follow the above named Cuban exile politicians who wanted to make

sure they were the ones to move into power after Castzo went. (CIA) (4).

105-95357-211 p.2

+ (CIA) (4)

(4,31)

SI 105-95357-217 p.1-2

(18)

Prior to 11/3/64, Jose Figueres

Ferrer of Costa Rica had on occasions

tried to persuade Ludwig Starke Jimenez and other MCRL leaders to stop•

supporting Manuel Artime's Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

and to assist instead Manolo Ray Rivero, leader ôf JURE.

(continued).

"SECRET

-19-

NN 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(continued)

SECRET,

Figueres was President of the Partido Liberacion Nacional

and Starke was

a leader..of the

Movimtento Costa Rica Inbre (MCRL) (*(u)

'(CIA)

109-12-

209-476

(21,287

On 11/30/64, at San Juan, Puerto Rico, Manuel Antonio Ray.

Rivero (protect identity) advised that he had never been contacted

about any new Cuban Government in Exile (105-95357) and had heard

nothing of any such

proposal.

105-95357-213 p.1

(16,29%

Juanita Castro* arrived in Miami, Florida, in October,

1964. She was asked by Manuel Ray

• to make

a statement excluding the

Batistianos from any unity movement. Juanita refused this request of

Ray and it was apparent that Ray was not pleased with Juanita's action.

(Andrew St. George, "Life" photographer, Dobbs Ferry, NY protect ident-

ity):

Rev. Diego Madrigal and Rev. Manuel F. Colmena, Cuban exiles,

(location not given) advisea that on a

recent trip to Santo Domingo,

Dominican Republic (DR), they spoke on 10/26/64; with Donald Reid Cabral,

member of the triumvirate which

ruled the DR.

Reid mentioned that

Ray had recently been in Santo Domingo for the purpose of obtaining

a military base from which JURE would operate against Cuba.

Ray was in NYC on 12/1/64. It appeared that he was preparing

for some maritime operation as he was havang. JURE mendees purchase

supplies and materials.

(NY 4116-S* 2)

While in NYC, Ray stated he was having a private meeting

on 12/2/64 with Daniel

Oduber, Foreign Minister of Costa Rica.

Oduber

was in NYC to attend the General Assembly of the UN. (Andrew St.

George, supra)

109-584-4135 p.5,8-9

(14%

SI as paragraph 1:

105-66204-35 p.2

(3,31),

SI as paragraph 2:

2-1622-278

(1/,307

*Sister of Fidel Castro

'SECRET

-20-

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECKET!

Robert Morris,

advised on 12/16/64, that he had

Texas, telephonically

was writing an article for

one took i lie in to ete on a

magazine (date of publication

unknown). The article was to deal in some substance with. Schmidt

relating his experiences while working (date not given) with Manola

Ray in the Cuban underground movement.

It was noted that Schmidt was interviewed on 12/3/63, in

Dallas, in connection

. of President Kennedy, (62-109060 Investigation of the assasination

62-199060-3956 p.1

(22)

In November and December, 1964, the following persons

familiar with Cuban activities in Puerto

Rico, advised as follows;

Manuel Antonio Ray Rivero on 12/9/64 advised he was still

active in anti-Castro activities with JURE. He and JURE members

maintained contact with other anti-Castro groups. Ray knew' Antonio

at other entry.

Veciana Blanch of SNFE (105-112098) but didn't know he was in Puerto

Rico.

He had had no recent contact with Veciana.:

Ray said no negoti-

ations had been made between SNFE-Alpha 66 and JURE concerning equip-

ment or boats.

Emilio Caballero Castillo advised that to his knowledge

Veciana had had no contact with Ray; that there was not and never had

been any connection between SNFE and JURE which was led by Rạ

the two groups had not exchanged boats. Felix Zabala Mas andi suberS

Matos Araluce (protect identity) advised the same as Caballero, that

Ray and Veciana had no current business negotiations:

On 12/18/64, Veciana advised that he had had no contact with

Ray of JURE either in Miami, Florida or Puerto Rico for over four

Ray or JURE.

abp

105-112090-552 p.0,9A,10,16-17

(18,28)

SI as paragraph 3:

105-112098-549 p.1

(32).

'SECRET

- 21-

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 11

---

## Page 12

(continued)

ULCRETI

it was reported that Ray said he intended to be in Cuba around January

15 or

20, 1965. (CIA) (protect Identity (u)

On 2/20/65, Carlos Zarraga Martinez advised he was a former

officer of JURE but had. resigned (date not given). He said there was

considerable dissension and dissatisfaction inside JURE because of

failure to launch any action against Cuba.

on 3/1/05, MM 639-S

advised the same ](x) (U)

Add. info.

109-584-4179 p.1-2,7-9,14

(15,397

On 1/26/65 at Miami it was reported that Manuel Ray Rivero,

JURE leader, Huascar Rodriguez Herrera, a Dominican, and Eloy Gutierrez

Menoyo, Military leader of SENE (105-112098), had been working in the

Dominican Republic for their fight against Castro. (CIA)(

105-112098-567 p.3

(6,32}

On 1/27/65, former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras

(109-430) held a

meeting at his office at 1739 SW 8th St., Miami

to discuss plans for a Cuban Government in Exile. According to

Prio, Brazil was expected to call exile leaders to a meeting in that

EXile: A meeting in that

country sometime in February, 1965, to ask them to unite and come up

with some form of agreement.

Prio wanted everyone, without exception

to participate in it, including Batistianos, Manuel Ray Rivero, among

others. (CIA)

* (4)

109-430-2483 p.2

(14,39%

It was reported in October, 1964, that Enrique Casado Cuervo

(105-68231) was owner of a boat which was in the Dominican, Republic (DR)

in about late September, 1964, and which was related to an alleged

attempt by Manuel Ray Rivero to enter Cuba. (P(U)

On 2/2/65, several grew members left the base of JURE in

the DR for Puerto Rico aboard the

a craft owned by Casado.

The crew members went to the home of Ray upon arrival In Puerto Rico CAp(u)

(continued)

SECRETI

-24-

NN 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRETI

'(continued)

[CIA-protect Identity) (U)

105-68231-7 p.18

(3,31%

As of 1/13/65, Manuel Ray Rivero was planning to infiltrate

into Cuba on February 4

or 5, 1965, previously the date was given as

between January 15 and 20, 1965.

All the men at JURE's camp in the

Dominican Republic were disgusted because they did not think that Ray

would really go to Cuba.

They had given him until 2/5/65 as a dead-

line. If Ray did not leave by then, he would probably lose all of his

They were anxious to see action but Ray gave them nothing but

promises and plans. (CIA) (DU)

105-112098-563 p.1-2

• (5,32%

on 2/5/65, Teodoro Enrique

master of the motor vessel "Shark V

„Casado Cuervo (protect identity),

San Juan, Puerto Rico, advised

that four crew members of the ship "Venus," which belonged to JURE,

were then en route from Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, to Puerto

Cabello, Venezuela.

They were to await there for further orders from

Manuel Ray Rivero.

Ray was in Santo Domingo until 1/31/65, at which

time he returned to his home in Puerto Rico.

105-112098-586 p.2

(69,33%

In connection with the investigation to identify (fnu)

Montes De Oca (105-135809)*, on 12/17/64, at Miami, Manuel Varela

advised that one Isidro had been assigned to the JURE vessel

"Venus" as an electrician. Varela believed Isidro. might be identical

with Isidro Montes De Oca. He went on to relate that this Montes

De Oca became suspect in sabotage

that occurred aboard the "Venus"

in August, 1964, when the "Venus"

was enroute from Puerto Rico to Cuba.

Varela added that after the attempts of sabotage, the question was

raisea by Manuel Ray as to the background of Isidro.. No one in JURE

seemed. to know how he became a member of JURE.

On 1/4/65, Varela advised he had just returned from a trip

to Puerto Rico where he spoke to Ray about Isidro.. Ray identified

this individual as Isidro.: Montes De Oca.

(continued).

*Subsequently identified as Inocente Montes De Oca.

-25-

SECRETI

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

On 6/3/65, Jose Aguiar Fernandez, employee of "Miami Heraid,"

Miami, furnished information concerning Otto Peterson (105-137318), who

reportedly was holding a position in the Castro regime.

According to

Aguiar, during 1961 Peterson worked for Roberto Ravel, who was in charge

of Rural Housing Development in Cuba.

Ravel's location would be known

to Manuel Ray Rivero, La Rabida #204, Vedado, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico.

105-137318-6 p.2

(13,38%

Correlator's Note: No information appeared in file 105-137318 indica-

ting that Ray was contacted concerning the whereabouts of Ravel.

For 216 be day e elvend war rammer the natro

organization, headed by Manuel Ray Rivero, who was formerly the Min-

ister of Public Works in the first cabinet of the government formed

by Castro after Castro seized power in Cuba in January of 1959.

on 6/7/65, Guido Radelat, 3117 Plyers Mill Road, Kensington,

Md. advised that he

came to Washington, D.C. from Chicago, Ill. about

one year ago.

He had resided in Chicago about eight years after

coming from Cuba. He was a member of JURE in Chicago. His affliation

with JURE evolved due to his friendship with Manolo Ray, the founder of

JURE. He and Ray were both civil engineers having become friendly

while attending the University of Havana. It was Ray who suggested

that Radelat contact JURE when he moved

Radelat explained that JURE in the Washington, D.C. area

ington, Washingto lost area.

its members. after the

failure of Ray to keep his promise that he would

"be in Cuba and fighting on Cuban soil by 5/20/64.

Radelat met. Hector

Bacallao Alvarez (97-4416) in connection with JURE in the Washington,

D.C. area.

97-4416-29 p.4-6

(2,317)

SI 65-69165-13 p.3-4

(2,31%

Representatives of SNFE (105-112098) and JURE met on 7/5/65

in Miami, to discuss the possibility of the two groups joining forces.

The only agreement reached was that each organization would name a

contact committee to discuss the matter.

Mando Ray Rivero. (CIA - protect identity) 6) (u)

JURE was represented by

CIA INFOR LASSED REMANS

(continued)

GLASSIANEO PER THEIR 13/31/96 LTR

SPEBATER (24/23b) 21/91

-28-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 14

---

## Page 15

(continued)

- SECRETI

A meeting was held on 7/8/65, at the home of Julio Abrew,

member of SNFE 'in Miami, which was attended by Manolo Ray.

The

purpose of this meeting was to explore the possibility of SNFE and

Jure uniting of at least working together in their anti-castro activi-

ties.

(MM 847-S) U

105-112098-635 p.8

(27%

On 7/21/65, in Puerto Rico, Enrique Casado Cuervo (protect

identity), Master of

advised that Captain Jose

Domingo, Dominican Republic, with his boat and crew.

The "Venus"

was participating as a patrol boat for the leader of the Dominican

‚forces.' According to Casado, Rabel and Manuel Ray Rivero were

still

at odds as to what the future plans were for JUrE.

109-584-4273 p.1

(40%

On 1/6/66, at Miami, Gisela Gonzalez (105-149550) advised

that she had been recruited in September, 1965, and trained by the

Cuban Intelligence Service (CIS) for a US Mission.

She arrived in

the US on 11/3/65. In early October, 1965, during her training,

Guillermo Serrano of CIS, asked if she knew Manolo Ray or any other

counter-revolutionaries in the Miami area ör the US.

She insisted

that she did not know any such individuals. Guillermo showed her a.

list of names of such persons and requested that she review the list

and try to remember as many names appearing

to CIS.

Gonzalez recalled that the name of Manolo Ray was on this

subversive list.

((u)

105-148617-7 p.18'

(21)

SI 105-148617-3 p.17

(20)

On 10/13/65, it was reported that Monsignor Manuel Rod-

riguez Rozas, Catholic Bishop of Pinar del Rio Province, Cuba, said

chat the regime of Fidel Castro Ruz had persecuted churchmen who hac

conspired against Fulgencio Batista Zaldivar.

Rodriguez's plight was

worse than that of other bishops because he had attended clandestine

meetings

(dates not given) with Manuel Ray Rivero during the Batista

regime.

• (continued)

SECRET

-29-

NW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 15

---

## Page 16

(continued)

SECRETI

64-47544-56 p.1-2

(2,31)

In mid-October, 1965; Antonio Carlos Veciana Blanch, a

leader of Alpha-66 who arrived

in Miami from Puerto Rico (PR) said

that in early October, 1965, a group of Cuban emigres met in PR in

an effort to unite, inactive

emigre leaders.

Manuel Ray Rivero,

leader of JURE, was among those who attended the meeting.

According

to Veciana, the attempted unification effort was foredoomed because

neither Ray nor Rufo Lopez Fresquet y Ruiz,

also a JURE member present

at meeting, would join a group which he could not lead. C(U)

Rogelio Wenceslao Cisneros Diaz, a former aide of ray, who

also arrived in Miami from PR in October,

1965, said that he had

attended

another meeting of Cuban emigres held in PR. The purpose of the meeting

was to create a new party. ("

(CIA ICE (U)

109-584-4325 p.1

(15,407

On 10/15/65, at Miami, Manuel Ray advised as follows: At

that time, JURE was directing its energies toward maintaining a strong

organizational core in the face of a number of reverses which the

group had met in the past year and

a half. It remained' the planned

strategy of JURE to await an opportunity to carry out action against

the Castro regime from within Cuba.. JURE had not made an alliance

with any other anti-Castro group although JURE leaders had had some

contact with SNFE.

On 11/2/65, MM 847-S advised that Andres Nazario, a SNE

leader in Miami, had recently been talking of a scheduled meeting, with

to be called the Party us the Revolution.

ate the Party un the Revention Cutsar party in exte.

Add. Info.

109-584-4324 p.1,5-6

(15%

On 11/4/65, at Miami, Jose Salvador Prince Chelala advised

that around September, 1961, he went to Havana, Cuba, as -National

Coordinator of MRP, where he remained until 12/10/62.

On that date

(continued)

'SECRET

-30-

HW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 16

---

## Page 17

(continued)

SECRET

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

105-114543-222 p.1-2

-223

p. 1-2

2224

p.1-2

-225

p.1-2

-228

p.1

-229

-231

p.1-3

-232

p.1

p.1

-233

p.1-22

-234

-235

p.1

p. 1

-236

p.1-5

-237

p. 1

-241

p.1-7

-242

p.1

-243

p. 1-3,5,8-12

-247

p.1,4

-252

p.B, 3,6-7

-255

-256

p.1

-257

p.1

p.1

-258

p.1-2

-259

p.1-2

-260

p.1

-261.

p.1-8, 10

-262

p. 1

-265 p.1

Sub A "National Guardian" 6/29/64

Sub A "Washington Capital News Service"

7/6/65

9)

mmm

MAHH

(18)

112)

On 12/21/65, SOI,

_(protect identIty)

advised that the El Comite

Coordinador de las Organizaciones Demo

craticas Cubanas de Puerto Rico, aka Comite de Unidad (105-149751)

was in the process of being reorganized in Puerto Rico. The organizers,

Jeronimo Esteve, David Castanon and Col. Ramon Barquin, were attempting

to bring new members into the unity committee.

At the

same time they

were trying to combat the unity group

being formed by Manolo Ray

Enrique Nunez, Rufo Lopez, and, other

"left wing" cuban extles. (%)(U)

105-149751-1 p.2

(21%

OTHER 4

-33-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRETI

The following references showed that Manüel Ray Rivero,

principal leader of JURE, was a source

for coverage of JUre by the

San. Juan Office during the period from

2/3/65 to 12/30/65.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER •

105-97459-210-306 p.1

(4',

31%

-316 p.2

(4,25%

'-340 p.2

5,25%

-345 p.2

(5,25%,

MM 847-S reported on 12/13/65 that Carlos Simeon had recently

arrived in Miami, from Puerto Rico. He was representing Manuel Ray

Rivero and the so-called

MM 847-S made available a copy of

language publication entitled,

1966,

"Revolucion, "ª four-page Spanish

Issue 1, dated January,

and an address listed as 1434 N.W. 30th St., Miami. According

to MM 847-S, this publication was the voice of the Cuban Center of

Political Studies.

On page 4 there appeared an article captioned.

"Creation of the Cuban Center of Political Studies of Puerto Rico."

The article related that a meeting was 'held (date not given) in San

Juan, Puerto Rico, attended by twenty Cuban exiles, and resulted in

the formation of a Cuban Center of Political Studies in Puerto Rico.

Ray was identified as one of the Cuban exiles who attended the meeting.

It was reported that the Center would ha

as its objective the con-

vocation of a revolutionary congress.

MM 974-S, on 1/3/66, advised

that a group' of Cuban exiles

in Puerto Rico had been meeting and discussing the possibility of

holding a congress of exiles having the thesis, "The Betrayal of

. the

Revolution."

Ray was one of the people involved in this matter.

Francisco Larrionda was in Miami from San Juan, representing Ray, and

Mane returned to sopore to day. CUns thes

, congress.

He had

Add. info.

105-148341-3 p.1-2,7-8

(13,38%

identity advised as follows: He and fifteen other Cuban exiles had

for the past two months been working on the formation of a revolutionary

congress.

the unification of Cuban exiles in the fight against Castro.

The

(continued)

-34-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

(continued)

group hoped to hold an open meeting soon, the date and location had

not been 'set.

On 12/22/65, SJ 492-S and on 12/21/65, Sol

ne same

(protect identity), a Cuban exile in Puerto

Rico,

furnished

information about

a group preparing to form some type of

unity group and mentioned that Ray was one of the group: (& (U)

On 1/10/66,

(protect identity), a Cuban

exile in Puerto Rico,

urnished a list of members of the

above men-

The name

appeared under the caption

Add. info.

OTHER 4

, OTHER 4

105-148341-2 p.1-3

(20,385

SI 109-584-4337 p.1

(21%

on 1/17/66, at the Opa-locka,

Florida Processing Center,

Ricardo Antonio Alvarez Lara (105-149550) advised that he had been in

the US since October, 1965, and now wished to return to Cuba. He claimed

he did not know, and he never had seen Manuel Ray and other equally

well known anti-Castro leaders.

105-149550-1 p.2

(13)

on 2/7/66, in Miami, Aldo Vera Serafin, Cuban emigre leader,

said that a Haitian/Cuban emigre group was planning an invasion of

Haiti. Higinio "Nino" Diaz, who was persuaded to assist the group,

was to get 'the boat that' formerly belonged to Manuel Antonio Ray Rivero,

leader of JURE.

The boat referred to was probably the "M/V. Venus,"

which formerly belonged to JURE, and had been impounded pending a

court decision

to determine the legal ownership. It was berthed in

the Miami River.

(CIA)

*(u)

105-95677-635 p.2

(29)

-35-

'SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32295105 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRE!!

On 10/15/65, Manuel Ray Rivero was interviewed at the

residence of his sister in Miami, Florida, 3801 N.W. 19th Ave., where

', he was visiting from his permanent residence in san Juan, Puerto Rico.

Ray advised that he possessed no information concerning the perpetrator

of the bombing of the Spanish ship

, "Satrustegui," which occurred at

San Juan on 10/9/65.

He said this act was not committed by any JURE

He also advised that he was then

I¡tigation of JURE's motor vessel "venus. "In Miami in connection with

He explained some of the

details involved.

on 1/12/66,

220 N.W. 55th Court, Miami (protect

identity) advised that

since April,

1961, JURE was furnished financial

support by sources in the US.

However, JURE under the leadership of

Ray, as of January, 1966, had failed to produce any effective action

against the Castro regime.

On 2/9/66, Osorio Davila, JURE officer at Miami, advised

that the Cuban Center of Political Studies was not a JURE

function,

although Ray was one of the leading participants in the organization.

On 2/15/66, Manuel Varela Castro, former JURE officer, of

Hialeah, Florida, advised he had been invited to a conference for

political studies in Miami. When he heard that Ray had been active

in such a study in Puerto

Rico, he, Varela did not accept the invita-

tion. He believed such a study supported by Ray was an effort to unite

Cuban exiles who believed in the democratic left as the political.

trend of the future.

On 2/25/66, Varela furnished information he had received

from Rogelio Cisneros, former JURE officer, which was briefly as

follows:

, In February, 1966, Ray was in Costa Rica visiting an old

friend,

Daniel Oduber, who had lost in the election for President of

Costa Rica.

While in Costa Rica, Ray participated in a conference

with some university students, during which he attacked the US.

Also set out in this reference were details of the admiralty.

suit Involving JURE, Ray and crew members of "Venus,"

as shown in

recörds of the Clerk of US District Court, Miami.

Add. info.

OTHER 4

105-114543-266 p.1-12

(11,37%

MM 847-S made available a press release dated 12/10/65,-

which related that a meeting to establich a Cuban Center for Political

(continued)

-36-

SECRET

NN 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 20

---

## Page 21

(continued)

SECRET

Studies in Miami, was to

be held (date and place not given).

According

to MM 847-S, Manuel Ray was among the Cuban exiles involved

in the

establishment.of the Center:

using )He Spare A the sa, 37a, that here someone on bien

Miami, where he

was working on plans

for the development of the Center, which was under the direction of

Ray. (%)

109-584-4359 p.11

(15%

The "Miami News" of 2/27/66 carried an article captioned

"Exile Groups Unite for Cuba Study.".

The article mentioned a newly

created Cuban Center for Political Studies and identified Manuel Ray

of JURE as one of the participants.

: on 2/4/66 and 3/11/66, MM[115]s advised that the Cuban (E]

exiles involved in planning and organizing a new Cuban revolutionary

unity organization, referred to as the Partido de la Revolucion

Ray and Joaquin Godoy were

involved in this project.

In March, 1966

Godoy had been in contact

with one

Sacha Volman, a

"leftist democrat," sympathetic to the Cuban

exiles such as Ray, and Godoy (purpose and

location of contact

given):

105-148341-4 p.1-2

(13%

The following references on Manuel Ray, Manolo Ray, Manuel-

Ray Rivero and One Rey, located in files maintained in the Speical

File Room of the Records Branch, Files and Communications Division,

were reviewed and found to be identical with the subject of this

summary; however, the information contained therein has not been

included:

REFERENCE NUMBER

64-330-209-91

64-330-210-1063

-1109

5)

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(30%

(187

12}

• (continued)

SECRET

-37-

NW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 21

---

## Page 22

• (continued)

REFERENCE NUMBER

{64-330-210-1-64] 65'

165-67952-821

SECRET:

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(17%

(18)

*****

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on Manuel Ray, Manolo Ray, Manuel

Ray Rivero, Manuel Martinez and One Rey, -located

in the Nationalities Intelligence Section, Domestic Intelligence

DIvision,

identical

were not reviewed,

and it is not known whether they arè

with the subject of this summary:

REFERENCE NUMBER

109-12-211-2349

-4931

-8211

-487

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(147

14,27,394

45)

(49)

SECRET

-38-

NW 45937 DocId: 32295105 Page 22

---

