# docid-32335485

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGÊNCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10043

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-112098-747

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/07/1968

5

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32335485

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Thn T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC-2107-Hgte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITE

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUST

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MM 105-6243

Miami,

Florida

FEB 7

1968

RE:

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

(SNFE)

(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTER

HEREIN IN UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2-30-90 815/ futba

5668.

SNFE is an anti-CASTRO Cuban revolutionary

organization which maintains

its headquarters at 109 s.

12th Avenue, Miami, Florida.

The military leader of the

SNEE IS ARMANDO FLEITES DIAZRONALD

ON/

On" January 29, 1968, MM T-1, a person who

recently arrived in the Miami, Florida, area, advised

that he had become acquainted with one RONALD LEE

/AUGUSTINOVICH, an American from Phoeniz. Arizona.

AUGUSTINOVICH was then residing at Room Ill Tip Top

Hotel, 11d M. 5th Street, Miami fIfile is about 30 years

and claims to be a veteran as well as a

helicopter pilot. AUGUSTINOVICH appears to have

considerable knowledge concerning the handling and

operation of explosive devices.

MM T-I advised that on

January 28, 1968, AUGUSTINOVICH took him to the office

of the SNFE

introduced him to various members

officers of

that organization.

On January 30, 1968, NM T-l' advised that

AUGUSTINOVICH had introduced him on that date to ARMANDO

FLEITES, leader of the SNFE. In conversation with FLEITES,

it was learned that the SNFE has been collecting money

from the Cuban exiles on the premises that the organization

will take some type of military action against the CASTRO

Government in Cuba. FLEITES said that in order to justify

accepting this money, the organization was going to have

to perform some such

action in the near future.

With this

in mind, FLEITES remarked that he was now accepting

B. APPROX /937

XEROX

FEr 28.108

ENCLOSURE

105-112099-747

DocId: 32335485

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kerredy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2101 Hote)

DATE: •11-14-2017

RE: SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

ESCAMBRAY

guidance and assistance from qualified American personnel

such as AUGUSTINOVICH.

MM T-l said that AUGUSTINOVICH

is apparently participating in some sort of a military

training program for the SNFE as he had

in his possession

a manual concerning demolition devices.

W T-I said he

had learned that in addition to AUGUSTINOVICH, other

Zam licks

Americans connected with the SNrE include CHARLES STEELE

TASS

from Boston; who recently married a Cuban girl in Miami, FLA

and MiLt MC ---(last name not recalled), who is a

waiter at Chandler's Restaurant, Miami BeachEl AUGUSTINOVICH

said that STEELE is presently in the Dominican Republic,

but he did not reveal the purpose for STEELE's trip.

AUGUSTINOVICH said that a man named MITCHELL LIVINGSTON

WeRBELL, Ill, of Atlanta, Georgia, is in charge of

making arrangements to obtain necessary arms and

ammunition.

On January

31, 1968, MM T-I reported that on the

night of January 30, 1968, ARMANDO FLEITES and AUGUSTINOVICH

had a meeting

with an unidentified person from whom they

purchased 1000 rounds of "Western 380 Automatic" ammunition.

AUGUSTINOVICH did not reveal for what purpose this purchase

was made. AUGUSTINOVICH also mentioned that the SNFE had

some old

type hand grenades which could be filled with

yellow phosphorus.

MM

T-1 made available a slip of paper bearing

the caption "Traffic Receipt", Form 770 of the Mobil

Chemical Company, Industrial Chemicals Division, which

bore the date January 10, 1968.

It was indicated on

this form that

Mr. RONALD AUGUSTINOVICH with address

shown as Miami, Florida, purchased one 200-pound drum o'

of "elemental yellow phosphorus" with a net weight of

200 pounds

a gross weight of 290 pounds.

receipt indicated that the material was "Shipped from:

Charleston, S.C.". Under the caption "Shipped via:"

2 Des

it was indicated that the material had been picked up

in "customer's truck"

This

receipt was stamped as

follows:

"Dangerous Articles" and "Dangerous Placards

Applied". The receipt was signed "RONALD LEE AUGUSTINOVICH"".

2 .

DocId: 32335485

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

RE: SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

MM T-1 also made available for examination an

envelope which was addressed to "Mr. RON AUGUSTINOVICH,

17 N.W. 5th St., Miami,

Florida", which bore the return

address 1S, AUGUSTINOVICH, 16833 N.17thPlmPhoenlt,

Arizona

850221.

MM T-1 also made available for examination a

handwritten notebook which he said was the property of .

RONALD LEE AUGUSTINOVICH. Examination of this notebook

revealed the following:

The front cover bore the printed inscription

"II Frenta, Alpha 66, Lt. RONALD AUGUSTINOVICH". Inside

of the front cover there appeared the name"ALPHA 66"and

below that the name"MITCHELL, LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

Atlanta-Georgia".

Below that appeared "p.Q. Box 2727,

Phoenix,

JIM, KARIS".

The first page of the notebook

was headed "Class~- Mines, Booby Traps, Demolitions,

Saturday - Dec. 24, 19679

There followed three pages

of handprinted notes relating to various types of mines

and booby traps, their use and handling..

Thereafter

the notebook contained handwritten notations relating

to various abbreviations for military

use, such

"AC" to indicate airplane cargo, and "AO"

to indicate

airplane observation.

Several pages were devoted to

aircraft identification; setting forth vital statistics

concerning the MIG 15, MIG 17, MIG 19, P-51 Mustang,

AT-6, and the B-26, Martin Marauder.

The notebook

also contained handwritten outlines on demolitions

and parachute jumping.

Along with the notebook was

a loose sheet of paper bearing what is apparently an

Xcerpt from the Encyclopedia Britannica, 1965, Volume 17,

pages

176-780, relating to white phosphorus, its

characteristics and behavior.

It was noted

that this

material glows in the dark and takes fire spontaneously

upon exposure to air.

MM T-1 said that AUGUSTINOVICH had told him that

3.

DocId: 32335485 Page 4

---

