# docid-32299373

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10153

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-114543-188

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

O'BRIEN, FRANCIS J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/12/1964

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

JURE, BULLETIN, MR, TRA, NY, COMMENTS, TIME

MAGAZINE, ATTEMPT, INFILTRATE CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299373

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE HeV1117977

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN JUAN

TITLE OF CASE

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(JURE )

DATE

8/12/64

REPORT MADE BY

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/25-8/5/64

TYPED BY

mmg

IS-CUBA

REFERENCE :

New York report of SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN,

(FFIL)

dated 7/7/64.

10-22-94

SF8 MACTISA

-P-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ADMINISTRATIVE:

DATE 2/8/85

BYSP6 BIJALECL

York City,,

ZACHARY DE GASTER, 10 East 40th Street, New

, on 7/11/64, advised that RAUL CHIBAS,

delegate of the JURE, departed New York early in

July, 1964, for Miami, Florida. DE GASTER stated that

prior to the departure of CHIBAS, CHIBAS made no further

comment to him regarding the possibility of the JURE

establishing some type of a base in Jamaica.

The translation from Spanish to English which

appears in the details of this report was made by

Miss ESTHER LAFONT

translator, New York Office.

J.t

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Бата (208601 (3) ( ( M)

1-San Juan (105-6242) (Info)

1-Washington Field (105-5228) RM)

(Info) (RM)

1-New York (105-42570)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-1114543.

REC- 65

- 3 AUG 14 1964

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO

ONI/OSI/ACSI/

by routing ship for into.

Dato...

CRimatiNs

Customs

LTse

DEA

By

AUG 211964

DocId: 32299373 Page 2

SEC.

NAT

---

## Page 3

Release under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Recórds Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2047

NY 105-42570

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

EMILIO J. BARQUIN

PSI under development

NY T-2

NY 4116-S

File Number Where Located

105-42570-138

Instänt report, page 9.

NY 1-3

ANDREW_ ST.

GEORGE

Dobbs Ferry, New York

(request)

134-8343A-37

-39

105-42570-141

Instant report, pages 8,9.

NY T-4

ZACHARY DE GASTER

10 East 40th Street

New York City

(request) .

LEADS

Instant report, page #

MIAMI, SAN JUAN, WASHINGTON FIELD (INFORMATION)

Miami, San Juan,

Information copies are being furnished to

and washington Field because of their

continuing interest in this

Investigation.

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

Will maintain contact

with established sources and follow activities of the

JURE in the New York area.

COVER PAGE

-B*-

DocId: 32299373 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-42570

goal, this semi-monthly bulletin pians to keep

the continent informed of the events in Cuba,

complementing the efforts of our propaganda

secretariat; to coordinate the campaigns of adhesion

to those who are fighting with the purpose of acquiring

support for them, to spread the truth about what is

happening in Cuba and the objectives we propose, by

serving as a vehicle for ideological discussions which

wiil make a valuable contribution to our program.

"Onward, cubans, to the just and necessary

war to give our sons a country.

MANUeL

mandic

For a Cuban Cuba."

MANUE IS

T. 2 on June 29, 1964 Foreia that

IVE RO:,

the national leader of JUrE,

arrived In New York City on June 21,

NY T-2

who is believed to be connected with "Jime!"

magazine.

NY I-2, advised that RAY was expected to be

present at a meeting of JURE leaders on he night

at the home of a local leader,

A ten ten Sweet Soon toe

Island. N

I-2 also stased on dune 29, 1964, that

RAUL, CHIBAS, the leader of JURE in New York City, is

planning to leave New York for Mami, Florida, on

July 1,

NY T-2 said that CHIBAS was expected

to spend at least two months in Miami,

until the new school term begins in the tail at 1954

when CHIBAS will return to assume his teaching duties

in the New York area..

1292

NY T-3, on June 30, 1964, advised that MANUEL

"MANOLO" RAY arrived in New

on the night of June

27, 1964. NY T-3 stated that he had been informed

-4-

DocId: 32299373 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-42570

is alleged to have said that he and his companions

were within seven miles of Cuba when the engine

tailed.

The article further stated that RAY

related that the crippled boat fought the heavy

seas and strong currents and "bravely" limped

back to Florida.

RAUL/CHIBAS currently 1S resiains

NY I-2, on July 20, 1964, advised that

; In Miami, Florida,

and is staying at the home of a relative, name

unknown, who resides at 401 East Third street Hialeah,

Florida, and his telephone number 15 888-8833.

NY I-4, on July 30, 1964, advised that

he has had no contact from RAUL CHIBAS or any member

of the JURE In New York in over a month and does

not anticipate being contacted by them in the

Immediate future as he understands that the JURE

1s badly torn by dissension.

NY T-3, on July 30, 1904,

advised that

he had recently been in contact with TAD SZULC,

washington correspondent for the "New tonk Times,".D.e

who has been very much in favor of RAY and who

has written several laudatory articles concerning

RAY for the "New York Times." NY T-3 said that

during this contact with SzULc, SzuLc told him

that MANUEL RAY was completely discredited, in his

opinion, as a leader of Cuban exiles because of his two

failures to get into Cuba.

NY I-3 stated that TAD SZULC told him

that he had no further interest in expounding

the cause of RAY and unless something spectacular

occurred, would not write any more articles concerning

RAY.

-8-

DocId: 32299373 Page 5

---

