# docid-32304938

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10287-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-396

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/07/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JRO, TRA, RES, SEEDMAN, GEORGE, ROWE VENDING CO.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32304938

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DADES (B1+14-130567

•out

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 12/7/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113 C)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

AR

Re Bureau airtel 12/4/62 authorizing Los Angeles

to submit airtels twice weekly in lieu of daily teletypes.

ROSSELLI returned to Los Angeles 12/6/62, on which

date he told IA 4268-C that he had just got into town that

day. ROSSELLI asked informant how he was doing on his deal

with GEORGE SEEDMAN (SEEDMAN represents Rowe Vending Company

and has been negotiating with informant relative to informant

SEEDMAN has told informant that his

(SEEDMAN's) superior 1s one PAT O'MALLEY of Chicago).

ROSSELLI told informant that he was back "there"

and checked and

there is no PAT O'MALLEY; that he had been

talking to the "big guy" back there. ROSSELLI asked

informant how many vending machines GEORGE SEEDMAN has

and when informant said about 4,000, ROSSELLI replied that

he had just left a guy who has 10,000 machines.

ROSSELLI then asked numerous questions about

SEEDMAN's operations and requested informant to obtain all

the information he could relative to SEEDMAN's operations.

Informant told ROSSELLI that SEEDMAN had been having some

trouble in one of his spots and O'MALLEY was coming out to

f1x it up.

ROSSELLI replied that "O'MALLEY can't fix anything--

that's done up north."

(The meaning of the latter part of

this statement is unknown.)

REC 492-3267-396

- Bureau

- Los Angeles

HFD: BA

(4)

12 DEC 10

WiSe

Approved:

• ODEC 13

7918

pécial Agent in Charge

DocId: 32304938

Page 2

Sent

_M Per

---

