# docid-32301597

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10432

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-113, 114

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/13/1964

'PAGES :

9

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, MEMBERS, MIL ACT, LAS VILLAS, TORPEDOES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC TTY, NOTE

v9.1

HH 45881 DocId: 32301597 Page 1

39

---

## Page 2

4-3 (Rev: +4-17-63)

Tolso:.

• Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

conrad

-Del

'Evan

Gol

DECODED COPY

ОДУ

AIRGRAM

. O CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

XX TELETYPE

9:52 PM. URGENT 5-12-64 RW

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 130115

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

wren

MOY IMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR),

15-GUBA, NEUTRALIRY MATTERS.

ON 2/23/85001

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU MAY 12, 1964.

BU RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

ON MAY 12, 1964 STANLEY SCHACHTER, U.S. CUSTOMS MIAMI

DVISED THAT A HOMEMADE TORPEDO HAD BEEN SEIZED BY CUSTOMS AT

A NAME DEKAOLORA ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR, AND

MESA, IDENTITY UNKNOWN, WERE TRANSPORTING IT BY CAR TRAILER

FROM A HOUSE LOCATED ON 29TH AVE, N.W. NEAR 9TH ST., TO COCONUT

GROVE AREA OF MIAMI.

CUSTOMS DESCRIBED TORPEDO AS ABOUT NINE FEET LONG AND TWO

FEET IN DIAMETER, CONSTRUCTED FROM A MODIFIED AIRPLANE WING TANK

TORPEDO HAD AN OUTBOARD- PROPELLER UNDERNEATH AND ON TOP. AN

ADAPTOR FOR RADIO ANTENNA. AN ELECTRIC MOTOR, BATTERY OPERATED,

WAS INSIDE. NOSE CONTAINED SPACE FOR EXPLOSIVES BUT TORPEDO WAS

NOT LOADED. CUSTOMS ASCERTAINED THAT THEODORE FULLER, BELIEVED

IDENTICAL TO JERRY FULLER, ON MAY 11, 1964 PAID BERTRAM BOATYARD

$200 RENTAL FOR BERTRAM SPEEDBOAT FOR ONE WEEK AND AN ADDITIONAL

$200 FOR INSURANCE ON SAME. THIS SPEEDBOAT, 25 FEET LONG,

BEARING REGISTRATION NUMBER FL-3696, WAS DRIVEN BY FULLER DOWN

MIAMI RIVER TO BISCAYNE BAY ABOUT 9 AM MAY 12 BUT PRESENT

WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN AS BOAT HAS NOT YET PASSED CUSTOMS PATROL

BOAT LOCATED NORTH OF MIAMI BEACH. CUSTOMS CONTINUING SEARCH

TO LOCATE THIS BOAT.

iT IS BELIEVED BOSCH HAS ONE OR MORE OTHER TORPEDOES OR

COMPARABLE EQUIPMENT WHICH WILL ENABLE HIM TO CONTINUE HIS PLANS.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

46

9."I-

HEREIA IS

ASSIFIED

4474-114

DAT 2/21/2072

SPUBTAtICL

• MAY 26 1964

Mpondca

JFKI

If the intelligence contained in the above

o be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

HH 45881 DocId:32301597 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Tolsol.

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen .

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

DECODED COPY

D AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO XX TELETYPE

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 130115

THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT

IS SUSPECTED AS

INFORMANT IN THIS CASE

ON MAY 12, 1964

MADE AVAILABLE FOR EXAMINATION

A CADRE WALKIE TALKIE, MODEL C-75. EXAMINATION REFLECTS IT

TRANSMITS ON 27.085 MEGACYCLES AND RECEIVES ON 27.54 MEGACYCLES.

THIS WALKIE TALKIE IS TO BE USED BY

ON PLANE IN

COMMUNICATING WITH HIS CONFEDERATES.

THIS INFORMATION FURNISHED

TO CUSTOMS.

MIAMI CONTINUING MAINTAIN CLOSE CONTACT WITH

AND

CLOSE LIAISON WITH CUSTOMS.

BUREAU REQUESTED AFFORD

MAXIMUM PROTECTION.

RECEIVED: 11:13 PM JGE

OTHER

"t.i

Vara intelligence con ired in the brue messape iran te disseminated outside thé Bureau, it is subBested that it be suitably

NN 45881 DocId:32301597 Page 3

---

## Page 4

4-3 (Rev.

'-17-631

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

• AIRGRAM

• • CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

9:51 PM URGENT 5-12-64 RW

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 130115

Wampall

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR),

IS-CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTERS.

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU MAY 12, 1964.

ON MAY 12, 1964 STANLEY SCHACHTER, U.S. CUSTOMS MIAMI

ÀDVISED THAT A HOMEMADE TORPEDO HAD BEEN SEIZED BY CUSTOMS AT

9830 AM SAME DATE AS DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, HEAD OF MIRA, AND

(FNU) MESA, IDENTITY UNKNOWN, WERE TRANSPORTING IT BY CAR TRAILER

FROM A HOUSE LOCATED ON 29TH AVE, N.W. NEAR 9TH ST., TO COCONUT

GROVE AREA OF MIAMI.

CUSTOMS DESCRIBED TORPEDO AS ABOUT NINE FEET LONG AND TWO

FEET IN DIAMETER, CONSTRUCTED FROM A MODIFIED AIRPLANE WING TANK

TORPEDO HAD AN OUTBOARD PROPELLER UNDERNEATH AND ON TOP AN

ADAPTOR FOR RADIO ANTENNA. AN ELECTRIC MOTOR, BATTERY OPERATED,

WAS INSIDE. NOSE CONTAINED SPACE FOR EXPLOSIVES BUT TORPEDO WAS

NOT LOADED. CUSTOMS ASCERTAINED THAT THEODORE FULLER, BELIEVED

IDENTICAL TO JERRY FULLER, ON MAY 11, 1964 PAID BERTRAM BOATYARD

$200 RENTAL FOR BERTRAM SPEEDBOAT FOR ONE WEEK AND AN ADDITIONAL

$200 FOR INSURANCE ON SAME, THIS SPEEDBOAT, 25 FEET LONG,:

BEARING REGISTRATION NUMBER FL-3696, WAS DRIVEN BY FULLER DOWN

MIAMI RIVER TO BISCAYNE BAY ABOUT 9 AM MAY 12 BUT PRESENT

WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN AS BOAT HAS NOT YET PASSED CUSTGMS PATROL

BOAT LOCATED NORTH OF MIAMI BEACH, CUSTOMS CONTINUING SEARCH

TO LOCATE THIS BOAT.

IT IS BELIEVED BOSCH HAS ONE OR MORE OTHER TORPEDOES OR

COMPARABLE EQUIPMENT WHICH WILL ENABLE HIM TO CONTINUE HIS PLANS

FEWENED BY

EWIFK TASK. FORCE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ON 723/98 dad

HEREIN

2/5/15

RELEASE IN FIRL

BYSPOBJA/GaL

HELEASE IN PART

P8 MACGAT (

TOTAL DENIAL

If the intelligence contained in the above message i

eminated outside the Bureau, it is sugg

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45881 DocId: 32301597 Page 4

---

## Page 5

•4-3 (Rev

7-63%

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

DECODED COPY

JAIRGRAM

O CABLEGRAM

O RADIO &X TELETYPE

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 130115

THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT

IS SUSPECTED AS

INFORMANT IN THIS CASE.

ON MAY 12, 1964

MADE AVAILABLE FOR EXAMINATION

A GADRE WALKIE TALKIE,

MODEL C-75. EXAMINATION REFLECTS IT

TRANSMITS ON 27.085 MEGACYCLES AND RECEIVES ON 27.54 MEGACYCLES.

THIS WALKIE TALKIE IS TO BE USED BY

ON PLANE IN

COMMUNICATING WITH HIS CONFEDERATES.

THIS

INFORMATION FURNISHED

TO CUSTOMS.

MIAMI CONTINUING MAINTAIN CLOSE CONTACT WITH

AND

CLOSE LIAISON WITH CUSTOMS,

BUREAU REQUESTED AFFORD

MAXIMUM PROTECTION.

RECEIVED: 11:13 PM JGE

OTHER

4:

ORIGINAL:,

BermoNT

DEBURLNEML DE 30211C3

We 13

1 23 01

i7e0:

I the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system:

HW 45881 DocId: 32301597 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4-3 (Rev: 4-17-631

Li AIRGRAM

DECODEDWOPY

O CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

CXXTELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohi -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad _

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale —

Rosen -

Sullivan

*Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

8:30 PM URGENT 5-13-64 RW

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 140030

135i gues

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR), IS-CUBA, NEUTRALITY MATTER.

REMYTEL. MAY 12, 1964.

ON'MAY 13, 1964 U.S. CUSTOMS MIAMI, ADVISED THAT THE

BERTRAM SPEEDBOAT, FL 3696, RENTED BY MIRR, WAS OBSERVED

ON AFTERNOON OF MAY 13 PROCEEDING NORTH IN INLAND WATERWAY

BETWEEN LAKE WORTH AND PALM BEACH AND IS NOW UNDER SURVEILLANCE

BY CUSTOMS.

ON AFTERNOON OF MAY 13, L

PILOT

(PROTECT) ADVISED HE IS CONTINUING SCHEDULED FLIGHTS AND

WILL FLY OVER PALM BEACH TO EFFECT RADIO COMMUNICATIONS WITH

MIRR MEN EITHER IN BERTRAM SPEEDBOAT OR FISHING BOAT. "LAS

VILLAS" NOT YET SIGHTED.

MIAMI CONTINUING CLOSE CONTACT WITH

AND CLOSE

LIAISON WITH CUSTOMS, AND WILL ADVISE BUREAU ALL PERTINENT

DEVELOPMENTS IMMEDIATELY. LHM FOLLOWS.

RECEIVED: 9:59 PM NCC

KREMEWED BY

HISTR TASK FORCS.

ON

7.23.90 De

REC- 139

974474-13

AFLONGE IN FULL

RELEASE I PART

A MAY 26 1964

ALL INFORMATICOT ONTANED

J

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

• DATE 9/10

BYSPEBTAIBCL

22/

OSMACSAT.

297

intert

(JFK

paraphrased

Ano le named in the above pa crapo a p te jia minated uside the Bureau, it is suegested that it be surably

OTHER 4

NW 45881 DocId:32301597 Page 6

---

