# docid-32339238

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90146-10075

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO :

BRENNAN

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/04/1962

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32339238

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

"Released miter the Tohn

To Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"AFRICA: LADIN AMORICA, ASIA REVOLUTION"

Reports received from a number of sources make it clear

that "Africa,

Lavin Anerica, Asia Revolution" has been in difficulties

for several months id it appears. that the last issue ras No. Il dated

March 1964.

The trouble bogan, apparently, when the french authorities

seized copios of insue No. T oi the french edition, "Revolution"

March 1964 because of an article it contained on French overseas

territories. Creditors became alarmed, fearing that the publication

might be banned, and demanded settlerent of their debts which

were then

estimated to exceed 210, 000.

Jacquos VERGES, the publication's

Director, tried to effect sonmatreave cconomies In order to cope

with the situation but, accordine to VERGES, Richard GIBSON, the

Editor, argued

that the. Chinese should be asked to jay

i The debts.

Matters worsened wes, again according to VERGES, GIBSON persuaded

the

Lausanne printer to write to Peking and ask the Chinese to scttle the

publication's debt to him. VERGES regarded GIBSON's activities as

deliberately disruptive and designed to produce proof of China's

support for the publication.

Hechei

2.

Also, VORGES complained that GIBSON was working for

Communist splinter groups in Europe to the detriment of the

international Comnunist movement, and that he was dealing tactlessly

with the magazine's agents and contributors.

The situation was such

that VERGES visited the i.K

in mid-july to discuss the position with

BABU, a member of the Editorial Board.

BABU, who is now Minister of

State foi Development Planning of the United Republic of Tanganyika

and Zanzibar, was in London for the Commonwealth Prime Ministers'.

Conference.

3.

In July 1964

there wore runours that the Inglish edition

had gone bankrupt but these vere denied by GIBSON who suggested that

the English and Frenon editions should be made quite separate, and that

the former should be published in London. At about this time

the split

between VERGES and GIBSON became complete and the latter was removed

from his position as Editor and from the Editorial Board, which issued

the following "waming"

"Comrades from New York, London and. Accra (Ghana)

have raised up grave charges against Richard GIBSON.

These charges have been confirmed and underlined by

Richard GIBSON's present disruptive activities.

Revolution's Bditorial Board has decided to dismiss

Richard CTBSON frOM

all his responsibilities and expell

him from the Editorial Board.

"From not on,

Richard GIBSONes.activities.con not

in any my encage the responsibility of the review in

all ito editions.

for the Editorial Board!!

A similar statement was motished in "Rovointion" No. 10-11 ditod

July-August 1/64.

10$

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32339238

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Tohn

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kenetty Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

SECRET

- 2

With GIBSON out of the way, VIROLS and his supporters

were hoping to resume publication of the english edition.

GIBSON also

seemed determined to carry on and it has been reported that'

as early

as June 1964 he ras enquiring into the possibility of publishing an

Inglish version in the Netherlands.

5.

The only other change of significance which has

"occurred auring 1964. has been the resignation from the Editorial Board

of Hamza

so objected to the publication's pro-Chinese attitide.

Issue No:

101" "Africa, Latin Anorica, Asia Revolution" shows that he

was

replaced by another Pakistani, the 78 year old Maulana Abaul Hamid

BLASHANI

BHASHANI, no lives in Last Pakistan, is the leador o

the National

• Arami Party.

1886

Ist September 1964.

SECRET

DocId: 32339238

Page 3

---

