# docid-32576080

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:August 13, 1964

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

SF. 2550-C-IE advised on July 24, 1964, that

MRS. ALEX CAMARATA returned from Irvington, New Jersey,

where she had attended the Golden Wedding Anniversary

of her parents, MR. and MRS. JOHN MISURACA. MRS. CAMARATA

indicated that the anniversary party was small and was

held at a small restaurant of a

friend of her father in

Irvington. She stated photos of the party were takerin

which Informant will attempt to obtain in the future

order that copies may be made.

MRS. CAMARATA indicated that her father

expressed concern about the trouble that had been caused

in the New York area among the members of La Cosa Nostra.

Informant is of the opinion this referred to the GALLO-

PROFACI feud in the PROFACI Family of New York. MRS. CAMARATA

stated because of this trouble the wives of the members of

La Cosa Nostra have become fearful for their personal safety

and many of them have taken to carrying switchblade knives

in their purses.

She stated that her mother carries a

switchblade knife in her purse and that MADELYN GRECCO,

her sister of Brooklyn, New York, has carried one in her

purse for a long period of time.

CCS

Bureau (AIR MAIL)

- Newark (AIR MAIL)

2

- New York (AIR MAIL)

- San Francisco

(1-92-593)

(1 - 92-603)

(1 - 92-41)

BCW : ppb

10)

Approveg

63001

125A

Special Agent in Charge

72-6054-714

Try trend kate

4

AUG 14 1964

Sent

NIN

Per

NW 45839 DooId: 32576080 Page 1

---

