# docid-32318989

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10123

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-47X1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: RCMP

FROM:

RCMP

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/18/1993

2

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32318989

Page

1

26

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Royal

Canadian

Mounted

Police

Gendarmerie

royale

du

Canada

Security lassication Desouriaire

321

. "

Your file

Votre référence

J. Kevin O'Brien, Chief

Freedom of Information -

Privacy Acts Section

Information Management Division

U.S. Department of Justice

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washington, D.C. 20535

Our file

PA-790-2

Notre référence

March 18, 1993

ALL FBI INFORMATI

HEREIN IS

CONTAINCU

Doc1N-7231

Dear Mr. O'Brien:

JOhN F. Kennedy

RE: RCMP/FBI RELATIONS REGARDING ATIP/FOIA

Thank you for your letter of March 3, 1993.

I regret absence

delayed this response until my return to duty this date.

I will address your query in two aspects. Firstly, while I am

unable to confirm whether the original agreements

and RCMP/FBI

relationships

were in fact

deemed

top secret and non-

disclosable,

if they

were, it would have been because Security

Service then was part of the RCMP.

In 1984, our Security Services

were

separated from the RCMP and became

the Canadian Security

Intelligence Service (CSIS) and therefore any premise for deeming

our relationship top

, secret has largely disappeared.

Our continuing operational relationship (as opposed to security and

intelligence relationship) is today largely a matter of public

record and knowledge as I mentioned to Grant Harmon. We do not seek

to keep

the

general

relationship

secret and it would not be

acceptable under Canadian law to refuse to name the source of '"in

confidence" information, except on a case-by-case basis, where that

ad internation no the te

prejudice law enforcement.

does not in anyway affect our ability to totally protect exchanges

of information from the FBI and we continue to totally exempt all

FBI

communications.

When consulted this morning, Assistant

Commissioner McCONNELL, the RCMP Director of Enforcement Services,

agreed that the relationship is such a logical and expected one

given our geographic co-location and membership in the IACP and

INTERPOL etc, that

would

be embarrassed to acknowledge the

absence of an operational relationship if one dia not

o l0-1029206-47X

Notwithstanding the above, I am not proposing any changes to our

agreement, I merely felt it would be useful for you to understand

the above distinction in our approach to it.

Canadä

6712-

Page 2

-

---

