# docid-32329887

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90088-10067

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3241-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SU

HQ

DATE: 07/31/1958

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32329887

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection ACt of 1992 TIT USt 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SU 94-253

A. PERSONAL HISTORY AND BACKGROUND

1. EMPLOYMENT

BINION advised SA LEO E. KUYKENDALL on June 7 and 9,

1958, he would depart on June 9, 1958, from Las Vegas and go

directly to his ranch near Jordan, Montana,

where he would

probably spend the summer months.

He stated he would be

accompanied by his son TED and daughter BARBARA and that his

wife TEDDY JANE;

their

youngest daughter BECKY and oldest son

JACK would remain in Las Vegas as his wife had to take BECKY

to a doctor in California for treatment during June and his

son JACK had received notice from the Army he was to report

for duty in the near future.

BINION's closest friends, su 386-C and ROBERT H.

CAUDILL of Las Vegas, have been contacted continuously since

BINION's departure for his ranch and they have advised they

have talked to BINION on numerous occasions by telephone and

also with Mrs. BINION in Las Vegas since his departure and he •

has indicated

he will remain in Jordan, Montana, and take care

of his ranch until the latter part of

August or

just before

the fall term of school begins in Las Vegas.

SU 386-C has advised BINION had indicated he has plans

to purchase the Horseshoe Club from JOE W. BROWN who has 97z

per cent of this establishment and ROBERT H. CAUDILL who has

24 per cent. It should be noted BINION and CAUDILL were

partners in

the club to JOE W. BROWN in December 1953 when BINION was

sentenced to the U.S. Penitentiary at Leavenworth for a term

of five years for income tax evasion which sentence was imposed

at san Antonio, Texas,- in December 1953.

BINION indicated to SA KUYKENDALI on June 7, 1958, that

ng intended to make some arrangements for the purchase of

the

H rseshoe Club in the fall of 1958 in the event a hearing

was held on his writ of habeas corpus in Philadelphia prior to.

that time.

On June 9, 1958; BINION stated he had received informa-

tion from his attorney JACOB KOSSMAN in Philadelphia that his

hearing on his writ of habeas corpus had been postponed In-

definitely.

-2=

1008810001

DocId: 32329887 Page 2

---

