# docid-32285893

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10169

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-572

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45760 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/17/1962

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS:

CIP, ASSOC, GAMBLING, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/15/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS '

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

HH 45760

DocId: 32285893

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

L'OtTIONAR FORM NO. 10

"5010-104.

UNITED STATES GORNMENT

Memorandum

5

do

TO

Director, FBI

DATE: July 17, 1962

SAC, Miami (92-900) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

SHYLOCKING OPERATIONS IN

THE GREATER MIAMI AREA

ReBulet to Miami 6/29/62.

ORS

REVIEWED BY ESTUFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/10/98 lat

D

RETCASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Enclosed is the original and three copies of

a letterhead memorandum regarding captioned matter.

The following identifies and characterizes the

informants mentioned in the enclosed letterhead memorandum:

MM T-1 is former MM 676-C, a businessman and

ex-convict associated with the criminal element and gambler

in the Greater Miami area.

MM I-2 is MM 609-C, a daily associate of thieves

and gamblers in the Miami area.

MM T-3 is MM 509-C, an individual who mingles

with the criminal element on a daily basis in the Miami

area.

*54

MM I-4 is MM 725-C, a businessman who has wide

association among the criminal element in the Miami area.

MM T-5 is JAMES MIGGINS, Special Agent, Internal

Revenue Service (IRS), Miami, Florida, an employee of anothe

govemment investigative agency handling criminal-type

investigations.

JEK Act 6 (4)

MM T-6 is

PCI, New York Division, an

individual who associates with the criminal element in New

York and Miami.

7

/ 3/

ENCLOSURE

REC-15 '

1-572

Bureau

(Encis.

4)(AM)

2 -

Miami

× 100

0 1962

(1 - 92-515)

DWW: msb

(5)

1ecyen Ran 1541

50 AUG 18196

IN 45760 DocId:32285893 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-900

MM T-7 is MM 342-C, a Miami businessman known to

be in contact with the local

criminal element.

MM T-8 is former MM 647-PC, who was associated

with members of the criminal element in the Miami area in

several business ventures and, during this association, was

able to learn of the activities of certain individuals.

MM T-9 is MM 665-C, a legitimate businessman in

the Greater Miami area who, through his social activities,

has come in contact with the criminal element. JFK Act 6 (4)

MM T-10 is

PCI, owner of a legitimate

business, who gambles with a number of the criminal element in

the Miami area.

MM T-11 is MM 654-PC, a Miami attorney who comes

in contact with local hoodlums

and

gamblers.

MM T-12 is MM 807-C, a businessman who, on occasions,

comes into contact with the criminal element in the Miami area.

MM T-13 is ANN DRAHMANN, an individual formerly

associated with one of the leading criminal figures in the

Miami area.

MM I-14 is NY 842-C, a source familiar with

criminal activities in mid-town Manhattan, New York.

MM T-15 is NY 202-C, an individual active and

familiar with the criminal element in the East Harlem

section of New York City.

MM T-16 is MM 788-C*, a source who has a good

knowledge of the activities of HYMAN MARTIN and gambling

• activities in the Miami area.

- 2 -

62-9-29-572

HH 45760 DocId: 32285893

Page 3

---

## Page 4

r.

MM

92-900

MM I-17 is RALPH H. MILLS, McClellan Committee,

an employee of another goverment agency investigating

criminal-type matters.

MM T-18 is former MM 656-C, an ex-convict and

known associate of hoodlums, thieves, and gamblers in

Miami and New York City.

MM I-19 is 'former MM 708-C, a bartender who is

acquainted with the gambling element in the Miami area.

MM T-20 is

_PCI, New York Division,

an individual who, through his associations, is familiar

with the activities of certain members of the criminal

element in the New York City area.

JFK Act 6 (4)

MM T-21 is

former PCI, an individual

who, through his associations, is familiar with

• the activities

of many of the criminal element in the Miami area.

MM T-22 is

PCI, an individual who

associated with a limited number of criminal figures in

the Miami area in 1958-1959.

MM T-23 is

PCI, an individual

familiar with the activities of some members of the criminal

element in the Greater Miami area.

MM I-24 is MM 792-C, an individual engaged in

legitimate business, whose place of business is frequented

by the criminal element.

MM T-25 is

PCI, an individual

acquainted with the activities of the criminal element in

the Miami area.

•-3 -

H# 45760

DOC1d:32285893

Page 1

---

## Page 5

SHYLOCKING OPERATIONS IN

THE GREATER MIAMI AREA

FL

allegedly bankrolled by JAY WEISS.

He subsequently

advised on August 26, 1960, that SPITZER had moved his

activities to the North Dade Civic Club, Dade County,

Florida.

At that time, SPITZER was allegedly bankrolled

by SAM/WEISS, who also possessed a financial interest in

the Five O'Clock Club. On December 9, 1960, he advised

SPITZER is handling the Shylocking activities at the

Collins Avenue Bridge Club. Fla.

On March 11, 1960, this source advised that one

NAT STAHL, who resided

at the Sagamore Hotel in Miami Beach,

was carrying on Shylocking activities at the Patio Bridge

Club in Miami Beach.

He stated that he had learned that

STAHL had on one occasion loaned money to an individual,

obtaining a series of post dated checks to cover the loan.

On November 18, 1960, he advised that STAHL was using the

food concession at the Collins Avenue Bridge Club as a

front for his Shylocking activities.

On January 31, 1958, MM I-4 advised that MAX EDER

loaned money to various individuals.

MM I-4 on October 13,

, 1960, advised he had been

informed that VINCENT TERIACA and "BIG PAT" SANTELLI were /LQ.

shylocks for the group operating the Johnina Hotel, which

group included MAX EDER and PASQUALE ERRA.

On June 6. 1961. MM T-5 advised that

dEK Law

11(a)

- 6 -

62-9-29-572

an life

"HW 45760

DO0Id:32265893

Page 5

---

