# docid-32292234

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10010

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-326

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/02/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ASSOC, MED

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292234

Page 1

347

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

x& Teletype

SM

DEFERRED

10-2-61

11:42 PM

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO

030203

GUS

ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6272-0 ADVISED THAT ON

EVENING OF SEPTEMBER 27 LAST, HE MET AT MIKE FISH'S RESTAURANT,

ONTARIO AND RUSH STREETS, CHICAGO, WITH GUS ALEX, EDDIE VOGEL,

BUTCH LADON, AND ONE ROCKY WHOSE LAST NAME INFORMANT BELIEVES

IS DE GRAZIO, NOT IDENTICAL WITH ROCKY DE GRAZIO OF THE CASA

MADRID LOUNGE, MILROSE PARK, ILLINOIS.

ALEX WAS INTERESTED IN

INFORMANT'S TESTIMONY BEFORE THE MO CARRON COMMITTEE AND

SPECIFICALLY QUESTIONS ASKED INFORMANT BY SENATORS RELATIVE TO

AN ALLEGED PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN ALEX AND INFORMANT. INFORMANT

FACETIOUSLY ACCUSED ALEX OF TELLING PEOPLE HE AND INFORMANT WERE

PARTNERS, WHICH ALEX VEHEMENTLY DENIED. ALEX TOLD INFORMANT

HE CAN NOW REALIZE "WHAT I'VE BEEN GOING THROUGH FOR 3 1%2

YEARS SINCE THE FBI STARTED ON ME.

NOW YOU CAN UNDERSTAD. "

C7

CG 6443-0 HAS ADVISED ONE DR. FOLEY, HEART SPECIALIST, ON

WEST MADISON STREET, CHICAGO, TREATS ALEX AND OTHER CHICAGO

AREA HOODLUMS WHEN THEY FEEL THEY HAVE A HEART CONDITION.

ALEX SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL

TENDENCIES.

REC- 56

RECEIVED:

# 3182 32₴

RN

10-3-61

X. - 102

9

• OCT 3.

1961

114

RE OCT 6 1961

arde intellite one rained in the queue message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, i

it is suggested that it be suitabl

DocId: 32292234 Page 2

---

