# docid-32340361

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10018

HQ

CR 105-193849-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 02/20/1970

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JAMES MELVILLE HART

LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

14 55271

DocId: 32340361

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1862 EDITION

&SA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-193849)

DATE:

2/20/70

(JFK)

USU

REVIERE SY PUAK

SATRE MIAMI (97-518) (P)

118-94

ON-

SUBjEC

Lylandas

JAMES MELVILLE

HART

Declassify

RELEASE iN FURL

RA - VENEZUELA

727/894

RELEASE IN PART

(00:

MIAMI)

TUTAL DENIAL

Re Miami

letter to Bureau, 12/30/69 and Bureau

letter to Miami, 1/20/70.

A re-canvass of local sources and agencies in

January, 1970 developed the following information:

312:20

On January 30, 1970, STANLEY SCHACHTER, Assistant

Special Agent in Charge, (ASAC), Enforcement Section, U. S.

January 30,

Customs, Miami, advised a re-check of his indices revealed

pending Munitions Control Act Investigatior

regarding subject under the name of JAMES SHART.

TTY:

earl town the sane perso

said although there is a slight variation in the name, this

is a member of the HART family involved in the Rupununi

i?

uprising in Guyana.

--

SCHACHTER advised that Customs has received

considerable inlornation trom another t. S. Government Agency

in Caracas regarding HART and his attempts to export firearms.

20

from the Miami area. No information has been received

concerning HART, however, since October, 1969.

SCHACHTER said Customs presently has a source in

lupon his uest depärture for the l. so

Venezuela close to HART who is to alert Customs immediately

SuI, RIVERSE

ASAC SCHACHTER, in view of their pending investigation

SIDE 7O5

under the Munitions Control Act, requested that Customs be

IFICATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

EXCOT FOR thE bRACKETS

ACTE

- Bureau (RM)

1 *Jacksonville

• (Info) (RM)

REC-10

- Washington Field (Info) (RM)

4 - Miami (2-97-518)

#SCA Roy. +912/2771-105-17397 COPA-VENEZUELA

105-1938493

(1~64-129) (ORLANDO GARCIA)

DIMIR 020-70

FEB 24 1970

JCB: cmr

(8)

1.72

6/l

6/26/70

& MAR 2 4 1970 VHN

SEC:

SECRET

NAT.L

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DATE

SLiP

ADVISED P

AND FEELD

CES

5010-108-01

774 55271

DoCTA: 32340361

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

MM 97-518

consulted prior to any interview of the subject in order

not to prematurely alert him to their investigation.

For the information of the Bureau,

it would

appear the original information with regard to HART coming

individuals attempted to sell information to the Guyanese

and Venezuelan governments concerning this alleged plot by

HART after reportedly having been bilked by HART, and CIA

is of the opinion this intormation orginated with them.

Leads are presently outstanding for interview of HOLNESS

and HARRIS.

Previous interviews of HOLNESS, as set out in

Miami LHMs of August 27, 1969 and November 7, 1969 under the

HOLNESS caption developed information regarding HART's

attempts to

purchase arms in Florida in 1969. These LHMS

are being disseminated locally to Customs for information

in its continuing investigation of HART.

AKA!

for additional information with regard to this

case,

on January 15, 1970, FAUSTO DANIEL VILLAR/anc

Ila

MANUFIXPERAZA were arrested in Miami by the Alcohol anc

Tobacco Tax Unit for violation of the National Firearms

Act, possession of unregistered automatic weapons. At time

of their arrest, they were selling firearms to an undercover

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Unit Agent which were determined

to have been stolen from the U. S. Army Reserve Center,

Columbia, South Carolina in December, 1969. During interview

and VILLAR, both admitted purchase of weapons

from two white male Americans in Miami on December 30, 1969

knowing same to have been stolen. VILLAR also admitted

at this time having been in contact with LUIS, POSADA, a

Cuban working for the Venezuelan Government, with regad

CuLA

to firearms shipments.

On January 27, 1970,

JEK Act 6 (4)

Cuban, advised that FAUSTO VILLAR, following

Key Source-

the above arrest,

- 2 -

(SECRET

HH 55271 DocId:32340361 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET:

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

MM 97-518

was in contact with

JEK Act 6 (4)

VILIAR stated he had been

contacted in 1969 by LUIS POSADA, ORLAND®

GARCIA and JOHNNY

HART (associate of POSADA) with regard to arms shipments

venezuela for use of the Guyanese insurgents. He said that

several shipments of arms had already been sent to Venezuela

with these men and he personally assisted in handling one

such shipment from Ft. Lauderdale to Venezuela. VILLAR

stated that CIA was aware of this and that|

Twas working

fOX CIA JE

On January 30, 1970

JEK Act 6 (4)

advised that VILLAR

said he has known since

January

23, 1970 that HART is in the

Miami area for the purpose of buying weapons and that HART

ORLANDO GARCIA, and LUIS POSADA are working together on this

deal.

It is noted that

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

and

JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

FART In

this arms purcnase,

are: known to have been oi operational interest to CIA

in the past. In view of this, on February 12, 1970, ED

ANDERSON, CIA, Covert, Miami,

was contacted with regard to

their current

connection with CIA at which time ANDERSON was

briefed orally concerning above facts. (gel)

ANDERSONI

and Kithough

Shas been of operational interest for many

In

the past, he was unable to verify definitely that

is stat under ca control, da i prorded neing, in

this alleged arms smuggling operation. (e)

On February 13, 1970, ASAC SCHACHTER,

U.S.

Customs, Miami, who has

primary jurisaction with regard to

arms smuggling, was orally apprised of the above facts.

SCHACHTER said he desired to have VILLAR interviewed by

his own agents with regard to the allegations concerning

arms smuggling and he requested the Bureau continue to

furnish any information developed with regard to this matter.

-3 -

JEK Act 6. (1) (B)

(SECRETI

MH. 55271 DocId: 32340361

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRETI

(5)

MM 97-518

SCHACHTER stated he had

placed a nationwide stop with the

Immigration and Naturalization Service concerning HART.

SCHACHTER volunteered that he was personally acquainted with

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

7 SCHA CHTER

will consult with CIA to determine the extent of their

involvement in this operation.

Since the principal statute involved is under

U. S. Customs jurisdiction and Customs is currently conducting

instigation concerning

HART, Miami feels no interview of

HART should be conducted as requested by State. It would

appear more appropriate that Customs should conduct such

interview at the proper time during the course of their

investigation; and UACB, no interview will be conducted.

Miami will continue to maintain close liaison

with Customs and will submit LHM, with copy to Customs

locally, following interviews of HOLNESS and HARRIS.

be of

jureau is requested to determine from cla I

JEK ACt 6 (1) (B)

(Bureau File 64-36297) continues t

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

that gency.

(5)

-4-

SECRET

HH 55271 DocId: 32340361

Page

---

