# docid-32304825

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10455

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-4536

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NK

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DECLASSIFIED

Department of State

Guidelines, July 21, 1997

Pate: 10-12-2017

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/15/1967

3

CC, ACA, INTV, SANTOS, EULALIO JOSE NEGRIN, ASSOC,

DESCR, BKG, EMP, TEAMSTERS UNION, FINANCES, MAFIA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

NH 54463 DocId: 32304825 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

D-36 IRv. 5=22-6,4)

=de.

FBI

Date:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLAOSIFICATION AND/OR

Transmit the followingELEASE OF CIA MFORMATI@Uin plaintext or codel

5/15/67

CONFIDENTIAL

Via

AT.T.

warran

Mergene.

APPROPI

AND FIEL

AGRICLES

FFICHS

Y ROUTI ME

(Priority)

FION CONTAINED

LASSIFIED

SHONN

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

на

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, NEWARK (105-7006)

ANTI-FIDEL, CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

#394226W

Classified be

Sto

Declassio

Re Bureau airtel to Newark dated 5/11/67.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine (9) copies and to

Miami and

New York one (1) copy each of a letterhead memorandum

dated and captioned as above.

The source mentioned in the LEM Is NK 2622-s.]

NEGRIN was interviewed 5/15/67 by SAS RALPH DAVID

LIGHT, JR. and RICHARD B. MURDOCK.

The files of the Newark Office contain no reference

identifiable #ith PABLO MUT.

DECIASSIFIID BY

Newark files do indicate that on 4/4/67 EULALIO

JOSE NEGRIN was contacted, at which time he requested he be

placed in contact with CIA.

He was referred to the Manhattan

Ce phone preto dee me celess that he wished to tell

cIA of his plan to save Cuba.

when intervened 8/15/64, NIERS 34 Phat at the

14511

time he furnished the information in the Lil to CIA,

4/19/67,

he also

furnished CIA his plan to free Cuba.

He asked the

interviewing agents if they, had brought back from the U.s.

Government an answer

to his proposal.

3 → Bureau

- Miami (Enc.

(Enc, 8) (RILOSURE

(Info)

(RM)

1 - New York. (Enc. 1) (Info) (RM)

MRBH/jtm

MASCARC

VANiTE

1 - Newark

MAY X6 1967

(6)

in 139

Copy to Also, and w,=

let

'by, rouled clip for

Wick

*I into

D setion

date 5-18-61

by....

LATINO

MARICAN,

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special

Agent in Charge

CONFIDENTIAL

54463

DocId: 32304825

Page 2

---

