# docid-32286272

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10048

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1390

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

"PAGES:

05/04/1964

4

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, TELCAL, WHEREABOUTS, ARREST

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286272

Page 1

76

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 OSC 2107 Hotey.

PAT5: 14248-2937°

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

5/4/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL'M. GIANCANA, aka.

AR

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4.23-84 BIS906/coL

Re Bureau airtel dated 4/30/64.V

The Chicago Division has thoroughly reviewed all

the facts and circumstances surrounding the GIANCANA situation

as furnished the Bureau in Chicago airtel dated 4/27/64.

These additional facts and observations are set forth for

additional consideration of the Bureau in this matter.

The Chicago Office was telephonically contacted

at approximately 8:00 p.m., Saturday,

4/25/64, by CG 62g3-C

and requested that SAs THOMAS W. PARRISH, MARSHALL E. RUTLAND

or VINCENT L. INSERRA contact him immediately concerning

presence of GIANCANA at the Drake Hotel. It is pointed out

that informant is assigned to SA PARRISH, who is presently

assigned to Chicago Heights RA and SA RUTLAND is alternate

contacting agent as well as SA INSERRA. The informant's

original information included facts indicating that GIANCANA

would only be expected to be at the hotel for a matter of

approximately one hour and one-half. In this original contact

the office was advised that also with GIANCANA were four

unknown persons, two males and two females. U

c C

= Wick.

REG 41

52-3171-1398

Bureau

Chicago

WBW : plb

(4)

EX 108

3 MAY 6 :1964

Approved:

B6 NA!

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32286272

Page 2

---

