# docid-32312827

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10325-10076

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

197-636-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM: [Restricted]

TO : EOUSA

TITLE:

DATE: 10/09/1970

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

HAROLD WEISBERG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS :

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC ENV, SUMMONS

v9.1

DocId: 32312827

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Hereasem

DATE:

11-14-2017

Reeny Assassination Records Col

101 MOt

OT

ADERAL GOVERNMEAT

1992

744 030

Mr. Tolson-

Vr. Sulliva

Mr. Brennan

- Call han

Mri

Casper

My the

Gale

Mr. Rogen

Mr. Taver

Mr. Walters

Mr. Soyars

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

v. u

United States Attorney

Octobe

Washington, D. C.

William D. Ruckelshaus

WOR: JI

Assistant Attorney Genoral,

Civil Division

14!

By :

Harland F: Leathers: Chief

Caneral Litigation Section

Farol

OJustiGe

U.S.D

1V11 *2301-70

At on

Mr, Rokert N. Werdig, Jr.

Bringins

Assistant U.S. Attorney

Thank

for sending us copies

of the motion

to disniss

in the

alternative,

for summary

judg

ineat which you filed

these proccoding.

Confirming

the telephone convarsation botween Mr:

Robert Herdig

of your

office and

Jetfrey Axelrad of ours,

understand

that you will

• dile

the affidavit tranemitted

under cover of our September 3,

piaintift

1970 memorandum 1f

tiles

opposition to

Che motion to dismiss

01, 111

the alternative,

for

summaxy judguent.

Kindly continue

to send us copies of all pagers

elled and keep us informed of all, developments.

co:

ME.:

j. Eidgar

hoover

Director

Pa, rederal

Bureau of Investigation

S(Enos.)

REC-30

40

PROC

662-1040606

197÷

4 36=

9 OCT 22 19/v

12 1970

OCT

6.49.

HIENOV 5-19

62-109060

5-

ENCLOSURE ATTACHED

DocId: 32312827

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released wder the vom F. Kennedy

Assas:

DATE:

11-14-2017

Ition Records

ON ACT

+8109040-6956

197-634-6

UNITED SEACES DISTRICT COURT

FOR

THE DESIRECE OF

GORUZSTA

PlaintisEs

DO FO DURARDENE CE JUSTICES

Defendante

Civil Action

No. 2301-70

MOTTON OT DECEIDANS TO DISSESS

THE AGZION CA,

IN FEE: ALECELATIVE,

206.34

The defendant hy ses consel, the United Statos Actoray for

cho Discrict. of Colubia, movos. Che: Count to diedas

the actions Os

in the alternative, fos aumary judgaent on the pecuada that cho

completo c

and the exbibite accached chereco and by referonce made a

pace hereoty

denonstrate

there de no claim fron thiel saliot can ha

exanted,

shove 10 no Lesus as to any nsterdal face nod the defendant

Is enciclod to judguent na

& netter of law.

7e/

NONAS

Untted States Attorney

J05011

ApoRetant United States

Askoensy

(s/

Hottend tra

/Acadetent Unaced

Mathua, sences Actorney

2912

BLISE

I NEREBY CoNTIrY shae service of the foregoing Nocioa o2

Detendant

Co Plantes the doston

or,

In the Altecassive,

Sor Summary

Jodgoone, Seatenone of Mataris! Pace sa. to Madch There Is Do Cenutio

Issue togechoe witt the Menovandom of Pointo and Auchorities 1a

support tharco? has

£0 Wornard Fensternald

upon plaincies by mailing

copy theread

20005 g

chis

den 2ã5

92%

15ch Screely N.Pey

Washdoetod

day of October;

1970,

/s/

Protein

Assists intred states acturey

DocId: 32312827 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992• (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNAIRO STAISE DISTRIOT COURZ

DOR THE DISKKICE OF COLMILA

WAROLD WELDERGA

Plaintife,

Civil Action

Nor. 2501-70

Defendanto

SCATSNERE CO MATERIAD FACU

DO 1420E

3E IS MA CHUTER ISSUE

Purenant Co Locol Rule 9(h) ths macerial facee

an the instaas

action are suasized belor.

I. In a perios oh lettoes of Mey 23, 1966; March 12, 1967g

Jamary be l95s; Juna 2, 1909: Apti 6, 1920, end May 15, 1970 ad e

"remuast for Accoro to OfFicial Record Under 5 U.S.6. 532(a) and 20

CPL Dart 36, dated May 16, 1970, plaineate sequenced varlous officials

of the defendone to prodace for inopection the "Spectographãe analysia

0f buitoe, Isagaence of bullet and other objocto, Includine garneato

and part of vehicle and curbatone eaid to have boon stucle by butlet

and/or Sraquents during annascination of President Kennedy and wounding

Coverner Comnally."

2e On June 4, 1920 tho Astonay Canaral wrote:

wa keve cater ths position that they

part of

an janvencigacory file compiled for low enforcer

mone parposes?

and are thocatore excopt tron ths

rrecdos of Indornation Acc's compulsory disclosure

5 0.506. 8552(0)(7) • 6

3. In & lotter of

Juag. 12, 1970,. the Deputy Abcorney Conoral

vrote plaincift:

"I rostor thac i on crabls to grans your

request in shas the work notes and rav ansistical

inca

on which cho raculee of

chose spectographile,

DocId: 32312827 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

teats are bared are part of che investigativa

Siles of the PB. and are spocktieally

exempted

crom pubdie casclosure as investigatomy

111os

comilod for law enforcement parpozeee

5 0.B.0.

552(b) (7)

The inocans accion was filed on August 3,

1970.

CHORAS

United Stared Actorney

JOSERS

Aostetant Unised Staton Actorney

Assiscont inires Stases Accores

* 2 ros

DocId: 32312827 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records collection Act. or 1992.744 050

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNIRO STARES DISTRICE COVER

FOR THE DISTRICE OF COLUMEZA

HARGED WELSSENG;

Cávál Action

No. 2301070

D. So DEPARTENZ OF JUSTICES

Detendanse

NEGORANOUIA OF POINTS AND ADTHORIZTES

XX SURRONT OF MOTTON OR DEFENDANT TO

3USXESS

AN OM ALDERNATIVE

FOR

Jani satan State

26

Pesotife has actached to has complator coples of lettors

ca the Departuat of Justice oyar s posiod of chras youre

in etch he

ans requested permisedos to inapoot certain apectographic annlyaes of.

bulloco and butter Araguenca recovered from the ecené

of the assassinar

clon of Presidenc John T. Kennedy 19 Dallad, Texas on Rovenher 20,

1903,

Also attached to tho complatni are tro cospoosas

from the popartnen of

Jastice in which plantlet's zequesto are dented on che baste that such

analyses aro part of an "imoscigatory file countled for law enforcement

persposco.

Ite

BECCASION

The sole baste upon which the Cource juriedlocion and tie rolfee

soughe is evoled in 5 U.5.G. 552, the: Mable Infonneion Aet emendrin:

to the Adainistrative Procedure Act.

The purpoce of the Act, as ext

Pininod by the Actorney Coneral, In lito 'Hanetendia on the Publis

InCormation Section of che Aúnintscrative Procedure Act," June 1967;

DocId: 32312827 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

do to make «informacios avallablo to menbors of che pubile untoso

se comes axthin spositte cacegories of mattors which are ereme fron

pubile disclosuro.*

De la Among cho spocific catacorles of documanco

' wich are exempe are:

" (b) (7)

invesciestory files compiled for lam

catoxcononte purposes

exceps cs che excost

obbox choi am

soded. 1

The thuust of the cromotion la ko protect from dleciosuro all

filos indel the coserment compiles da che courco of lay enforcement

Investigatione which may or moy not load to Loral proceedingo.

In

«In general

temo 1 agrec With the Attornay Canoral s

analysta

od the tabuce sid

scope ar the exemption, in his

memorandow oe che Edolie Intarmation Soccoe of che adat

istrative

BEates 2c pr

Procoduce Ast, datod Jund; 1907, wherela ha

"Tho

38 г

effees of the

language tri exempcion (7)

on the ocher hand

ocome ro be te confira

che avaliability to Lacigasts of doeuener

from invescigatory Ciles

winket Congross and

the courte have made

avallsble

co puch lucigante.

for examie,

Litigante

bundens of the Jencke

o bacuce (183

U.soo. 3500) my dotata prior

pesteoonte giren to an F33

9gant or

investigatony

by s watness who is Lostitying

2B & pending

cand; bur since such esacerenti

concain anformacion untairly danaging

the

Licheans or ochor per0020,

Law,

mate the onoks scasatos

des not perc

this

scotenone to be vado armilahle tr

publico,

In eddicion

the loues report oahse

clear

thec Iteigenca

obtain apocial

benefits

Scon this provasiou

Is.1160 de not intendod

that

to rive

2 private varcr

indirectly any carlier or greater

to

investigatory Ellos thaa ba would have diseccly

in sach

uitugacion on preccediare.

(Ro Rept.

11)."

congrase could not have inserded

scont leorer sighes.od

suggesced becoce tnpoction aud copyleg da vitreteons.

3 Caccaosts to

persons who are lacce tian te demiration e

hoûr lafe or liberer, chan to persona faced onte piel

renedial adainiocrative ordera under roguistory statucas "

274 F. Supp. 50% 502-503 (Dolfes 1907)

1o 1ino eiract La tho deciaton in Diane Asostara 0o. V. 1200

wich shich tho rifta Clscole has stated in "fully concural

clenene Brothero Coi, 407 F.2$ 1027 (5 Cãres 1909):

DocId: 32312827 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released

under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE :

11-14-2017

(rhough che Coint does not feel thas de la

nocessary

co zulterate

en exhaustive documes taclon

of the Acan logialative bistory, Che follovies

sentenns is exemplary of mmerons others whics

16 clear that the pindatifelo, incerpretacion

be

resected:

"The exemption covers investipatory

files selated to enforcanene of

211

kiada

Labor and ascuricles

fave

as woll

Paão would ¿oclade Lilos

prepared in cconaction nich related Governe

RONG

KeRo

Reporc 11427, 89th Congr, 2nd Sosa."

P. ALI

"In sun, it do cloax thas the aladnates coula

obeain chhe employees"

@ Coconcats coken by the foszd

a she employced had boon called to contify - 1a

Lace: the plaincite voo giron access so the senter

acate, es che coployees who did do castly.

abcone sude use, *e curlelad to coployos acaterence

202 1. Suppe. 540s 542 (Na Ga: 1900) •

In the ¿ustane case, sinoe the zeconds platatice scoles bave wot

been made part of any record in any agency proceeding he my not obesin

ches "absons soch ase.!*

Ie so Significant shas che Language Congreno chone; "compiled for

Raw cudercanent purposed" was oriticized se heartage on the

proposed

Legiolacton as unduly resestctive. 80ch Conger lat Seaston, Hearingo

245-247, Nocrichátaading this enticima Congress enacted esamtion

7 ta reforrod to above bacause to thoughe the broad proteceton egajast

dircloouce containad therals nacecoary do eifective operation of the

Aporctes which compute cavascigation roperts.

Is addition, the logis

Recive history of the acr

staces, explicitly: "[elbe Dut would be

prococked under orestion do. 7 prohibiting disciocure of "investigatory

22109,016

89Ch Conges 2nd Seas.; Cong. Record, f, 13026. The speaker

quoced above, Represontativa Callogher, & serong suppocter of the Asta

aldo etacod, the bill contalaing

exemption 7;

"prevento the disclonue

of .: " "sensitive' fovernont information such

DocId: 32312827 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE :

11-14-2017

sale Court han bad occadion only recently to

spodk os tho

baccar or voi fire disciona.

«Tho public polloy da favor of mincaining

the

cecrecy

#nestigative reports has

been

recognised by Congress.

Information Act,

In poseing the Freedon es

which greatly excanded the inforc

mation which goverment agenotes met onke

available

to the pubiie

& tro

coverase 15 0.S.6.

Errore

552 (b) (2) I

224

"While these cason

lennardon v. United

394 W.5a

165 and

Meeksanes

Scatea

394

Don 310g

bock chant

appoclad

chae tha

a core oL

discovory in crininal cases

a8 Droad

they do show che

SONGEZIR

02

ene deprece conct ter the secrecy und

senceity of

Che

Ist savestigative Aller.

It se Chas apparent that the infomacion soughe by

the plalatied comes within the governone o

protect incocaation shich,

is xeleaseds.

to the public intereste

The sesulta

aileged calainal activity ine

11725 2

26299.229

o. intonation that the pusite

12C

B1ac7 y.

ST 32-15. 8 Dico 1575.

151n8225

31863649

adued.)

Cozelssias

From the foregoing, e 19 obvious Chat the Cengeass pancieularly

into the Pubiãe Informatton Act a prohibacion againat Ena

celoose to cha publie of the trpe of docent plotacite sole in ete

Inscene action.

The prohibition mas enacted ufter critteten and

docusaton on the floor of Congross. Tra Congresaional Antent has beon

incerpested by the coures of this and othar juladlocions in unanynicy.

PlaintiSt de not cachtled to

she spoctogcaplic analyses sought and the

Court should cuter

Judgesus In Favor of the detendent and dienãss che

action.

THONE

I CANNER

United

States Attornsy

Assissane Undted

Scares Actorney

Ronna 7.

WORDS ,

Anatecant United Scates ACtorary

DocId: 32312827 Page 9

---

