# docid-32319468

## Page 1

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10370-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-H6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/14/1976

'PAGES: 362

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, ASSASSINATION

MATTERS VOLUME VII

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/28/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, A/T, MEMO, LET, TTY, LHM, NEWS ARTICLE, S/S, NOTE, BRIEF, NEWS

RELEASE, FAX, MAILGRAM, BILL, FD-302, REPORT, SUMMARY, EXHIBIT, R/S

v9.1

DocId: 32319468

49

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

=7/2

FBI

Date:

9/14/76

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Precedence)

LUT INFORMATION CONTARED

PEREIR IS UNCLASSANIDD

LESCENT WHERE ELONA

ASE

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-249261)

FROM:

MISSAC, WTO (105-117535) (P)

OLEG

N.

YERMISHKIN

IS-R

(SOVEMB-KGB-PR)

(00: WFO)

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 S40/6el

REASON: 1.5 (ed)

FFRI

ECLASSIFY ON: XLAY

Pleases

Enclosed are five copies for the Bureau of an LHM

dated

furnished by WF

And 0-406 DO A JARED THOMAS PER 0 373/16.

Asset advised the Soviet Embassy reception was

scheduled for 6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m., 9/9/76. Ho said he and

his wife arrived at 7:30 p.m. and departed at 9:20 p.m.

They

were about the last to leave as most guests departed following

9.2

Concerning assot's and YERMISHKIN's reported comments

concerning the assassination of Presidont John Kennedy It 1s

noüed asset has been very active in assisting his Congressional

employer in attempting to get legislation passed to reopen

this invesüigation.

As noted in LHM of 12/10/75 under subject's

caption, when asset broached the assassination to YERMISHKIN,

YERMISHKIN commonted only to the effoct that the Soviet Union

could not have been involved. Asset stated on 9/13/76, that

at the time of his discussion of the KENNEDY assassination

¿ had had only one drink and to his knowledge YERMISHKIN ha

ad only one drink, Stil

CONFIDENTIAL

alassiFied by 6121

Exempt Irom GDS, Categories 253

Dato of Declassification Inaun

-Bursau (Enc. 5)

•f- WFO

REC-86 DE 33.

105249261-100

1-105-11912 (Capitol Hill Contacts)

(1-134-122190

(1-105-81773) ROZANOV) ACE

sant to

JTF: dlb

51638 276

Te: +0. 62-109060

(6)

1092101

413/0:

Approvedi

54 NON 1-91910 special Arent in Charge

ECRET

Sent.

Per.

DocId: 32319468

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

422. (R S7: 1-28-75)

Federal Bureau of In

stigation

Records Section

-, 1976

GLASS

MB DI

REAS

Name Searching Unit, 4543 JEH-FBI Bldg.

Sence Umt, 4654 JEH-F-BI

Forward to File Review

Attention

I Return to

5056 4256

Supervisor

Room

Ext.

ype of References Requested:

IReaular Request (Analytical Search)

JAll References (Subversive & Nonsubversive),

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main

References Only

Restricted to Locality of Wash. Solit

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

_ Buildup •

Variations

Subject

K. M

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities.

RA

Prod.

Banne toT

. Date

10/20

FILE NUMBER

- 26824

+6 - 9-

2 - 756/

70÷222572

35-28893-191

62-60527-29041

105-8805-60

02-477-49

100-67234-21

20- x407-14

62-0-71383

red. not in locity

i evad. Stati

searched OTN-

Need Nor info. on

name.

SECRET

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32319468 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

_FD-35 (Rev, 2-14-74)

AEL INPORMATION CONTAI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEET WHERE SHUNY

OTHERWISE

Via

AIRTEL

Transmit the following in

2-CiA

FBI

9/14/76

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Precedence)

JPUL

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-249261)

FROM:

mEsSAG, WPO (105-117535) (P)

TAL

OLEG. N. YERMISHKIN

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SID/gel

IS-R (SOVEMB-KGB-PR)

REASON:

1:5

(con

(00 :WFO)

DECLASSIFY ON: X(A(6)

(5668 5401862-11619-9812=

Enclosed are five copies for the Bureau of an LHM:

dated and captioned as above, setting forth information

furnished by WE b68gIA to SA JAMES THOMAS FEILD On 9/13/76:

Asset advised the Soviet Embassy reception was

scheduled for 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m., 9/9/76.

He said he and

his wife arrived at 7:30 p.m. and departed at 9:20 p.m. They

vere about the last to leave as most guest parted following

the end of the two films about 8:30 p.m.

Concerning asset's and YERMISHKIN's reported comments

concerning the assassination of President John Kennady it 1s

noted asset has been very active in assisting his Congressional

employer in attempting to get legislation passed to reopen

this investigation.

As noted in LHM of 12/10/75 under subject's

caption, when asset broached the assassination to YERMISHKIN,

YERMISHKIN commented only to the effect that the Soviet Union

could not have been Involved.: Asset stated on 9/13/76, that

at the time of his discussion of the KENNEDY assassination

he had had only one drink and to his knowledge YERMISHKIN had

had only one drink. elM!

AHM

204238

2* Bureau (Enc. 5)

ENCLOSURE

INFO

(1-105-71910)) (Capitol Hill Contacts)

(1-134 12219 Sub A)

+1-105-817731 ROZANOV

JTF: dlb

(8)

CONT

DENTIAL

alassifisd by 6I2P

Exempt from GES, Categories 23

Date of Declassifleation Indefini

• SEP 16-1976

Approved:

Sent :

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32319468 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assistant Attorney General

Crininal Division

September 13 , 1976

Director, FBI

MS. MERINA LORENZ;

DIR. WALLY WESTON;

INFORMAZION CONCERNINIC

1 - Mr. Held

Mr. Adams

Mr.

Gallagher

-

Mr. O'Connell

1

^ Mr. Cooke

1- Mi. Burton

1 - Mr. Fisher

1 - Mr. Leavitt

In reference to your communication of August 27, 1976

(RIT; WSu:GS:sd) and my response of September 8, 1976, captioned

as

above, the following additional information is provided.

A further review of our files revealed information

regarding Ilona Marita Lorenz, who appears to be identical to

the Merita Lorenz about whom you inquired.

Our files reflect

that Marita Lorenz, date of birth August 18, 1939, at Breman,

Germany, was initially in contact with the New York Office of

the FBI on November 20, 1959.

This contact was arranged with

the New York Office by Alexander I. Rorke through Lorenz's mother.

During this initial interview, she furnished information

concerning contacts with Fidel Castro.. In later interviews

she revealed that she voluntarily traveled to Cuba in 1959

where she had a love affair with Castro.

This affair resulted

in an

involuntary abortion in Cuba.

In 1959 and 1960 Jesus

Yenez Pelletier, Military Aid to Castro, traveled to New York

where he contacted Lorenz and offered to pay medical expenses

for surgery resulting from the abortion.

He also attempted

to convince Lorenz to return to Cuba.

Lorenz was fearful of

being kidnaped and requested FBI assistance but the New York

Office advised her there was no FBI jurisdiction and referred her

to the New Yorl City Police Department if she felt she needed

protection.

In 1960, jorenz's mother wrote a letter to Castro

concerning his alleged rape of Marita Loreng.

This letter and

an article in Confidential Magazine received considerable

publicity at the time. Additional information in our files

indicates that Lorenz furnished information concerning the

July 25 Movement in the United States.

This group was the

original political and military organization which Castro used

ISB: aml

(10)

SEE NOTE PAGE

THREE

CLASSI

3002

EXEMPT FROM GE

SCHEDULE CH SSEC

EXEMPTION CAINGORY.

2

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

IFICATION

11652

ndefinite

DocId: 32319468

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Keleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

to overthrow the Batista Regine in Cuba. Lorenz was also

Interviewed in 1962 in Florida regarding a White Slave Fraffic

act casa

She admitted being the mistress of Marcos Perez

Jimenez,

former prosident of Venezuela, who fathered her

daughter. Investigation failed to establish that Lorenz was

a victim in the White Slave Traffie Act case. Lorenz has.

on occasion, volunteered information of value to the New York

Office of the FBI

The New York Office opened a Potential

Crininal Informant File on her because of her contacts with

a New York area crime figure and a horse racer named Guiseppe

Faggiano. She furnished information regarding gambling,

Shylocking and bank robbery investigations. Her file has been

in To to has boon

closed, however, by the New York Office.

Articles appearing in the "Washington Star" dated

June 14, 1976, and in the

"New York Dally News" on June 13, 1976,

and June

14, 1976, alloge that Mazita Lorenz lived with

Fidel Castro in Havana in 1959 and was later zeczulted by the

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to poison Castro.

According to

the articles, she was contacted by Frank Fiorini, also known

as Urank Sturgis, and by Alex Rorke, both alleged to be

enployed by

• the CIA.

She was urged to travel to Cuba for the

purpose of killing Castro and she finally agreed to do so. She

told reporters that Florini

furnished her with poison which she

was to sprinkle into Castro's coffee.

The poison, which was

contained in two capsules, was hidden in Lorenz's cold cream

jaz, but when she reached Havana and attempted to remove the

capsules,

she discovered that the capsules had dissolved, and

rendered

the poison useless.

There is no indication in FBI files that Lorens

ever advised

the FBI about her alleged involvement in the

Castro assassination plot, nor is there any indication in the

files that she was ever asked to perform a task on behalf of

the FBI in the United States or Cuba.

An article in the August 24, 1976 edition of the

New York Daily News, page 30, reported that Senator Schweiker

had requested Justice Department protection of Lorenz after

she was pistol whipped in her Manhattan apartment in July.

Lorenz told

reporters her attacker later phoned her apartment

building and told the superintendent that Lorenz would "get

what Roselll got" if she did not keep her mouth shut.

Police

identified her attacker as Guiseppe Fagiano. He has been

330-10037

DocId: 32319468

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

POSSIBLE QUESTIONS FROM THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES REGARDING THE INVESTIGATION OF

THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

Rather than attempting to forecast actual questions,

the following is a summary of areas in which the Senate Select

Committee (SSC) has shown interest since the publication of the

final report of the Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities.

The Alleged Jack Ruby Trip to Cuba

Newspaper articles have reported that Frank Sturgis,

"a former CIA Agent" has testified before the Senate Intelligence

Committee that Jack Ruby met with Fidel Castro in Havana during

the Summer of 1963, and discussed the possibility of assassinating

President Kennedy.

Frank Anthony Sturgis, true name Frank Fiorini, has won

recent notoriety as one of the watergate burglars. Fiorini

was interviewed by the FBI in November of 1963 and in January and

April of 1964 regarding his knowledge of Lee Harvey Oswald. These

interviews resulted from newspaper articles quoting him as saying

that Oswald had telephone conversations with Cuban Intelligence

during November of 1962. The articles further quote Fiorini as

stating that Oswald contacted Miami-based supporters of Fidel

Castro and that Oswald had connections with the Cuban Government

in Mexico and in New Orleans.

Fiorini further claimed,

according to the articles, that Oswald handed out pro-Castro

DocId: 32319468

Page

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

had a love affair with Fidel Castro. This affair resulted in

an involuntary abortion in Cuba. Later, a military aid to

Castro traveled to New York where he contacted Lorenz and offered

to pay her medical expenses resulting from the abortion and also

attempted to convince Lorenz to return to Cuba.

Lorenz was

fearful of being kidnaped and requested FBI assistance, but the

New York Office advised her there was no jurisdiction and referred

her to the New York Police Department.

Additional information in our files indicates that Lorenz

furnished information regarding the July 26 Movement in the

United States.

This group was the original political and

military organization which Castro used to overthrow the Batista

Regime in Cuba. Lorenz was also interviewed in 1962 in Florida

regarding a White

Slave Traffic Act case. She admitted being the

mistress of Marcos Perez Jimenez, former President of Venezuela,

who fathered her daughter. Investigation failed to establish

that Lorenz was a victim in the White Slave Traffic Act case.

Lorenz has, on occasion, volunteered information of

value to

the New York Office of the FBI. She also operated as a Potential

Criminal Informant for a short period because of her contacts with

a New York area crime figure and horse racer named Guiseppe

Faggiano. She furnished information regarding gambling, shylocking ai

bank robbery investigations.

- 5 -

DocId: 32319468 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14T02075tu NO. 10

MAX 1902 LOITION

UNITED STATES GOVELENMENT®

Memorandum

1

1

-

Mr.

- Mr.

1 - Mr.

TO

Mr. I. No Leavitt

¡FROM : S. S. Mignosa

1 - Mr.

1

— Mir..

1

-: Mx o

- Mr.

1

- Mr.

R.

J. Gallagher

D.

Wo Moore

C. Fehl

DATE:

J.

T.

Jo

S.

A.

Mintz

Leavitt

W. Redfield

Do

Mignosa

Hampton

6/16/76

SUBJECT: ILONA MARITA LORENZ, AKA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Filos & Com.

Gen, Ini.

Ident.

Inspecti

insel!.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Eval.

Spec, Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director See'y -

PURPOSE:

The purpose of this memorandum is to advise you of

information in FBI files concerning the subject, who according

to recent newspaper articles (copies attached), publicly

admitted to being involved in a CIA plot in 1960 to

assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel Castro. The newspaper articles

indicated that she was interviewed during that period by the FBI.

SYNOPSIS:

The subject, according to recent newspaper accounts,

was alleged to have been involved in a 1960 CIA plöt to

assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel Castro.

According to the

newspaper accounts she was in contact with Alex Rorke allegedly

a CIA and FBI employee and a Frank Fiorini allegedly a CIA

employee. During contact with the New York Office in 1959 and

1960, the subject

admitted being the lover of Castro and having

an abortion as a result. She never advised the FBI of alleged

involvement in the above plot nor was she ever directed to

perform any tasks on behalf of the FBI.

The subject's husband is a New York informative asset

in the Soviet bloc field!)The subject, who is separated from

her husband, was briefly under development as a criminal informant

from April to June 14, 1976; the case is closed.

Enclosures - 3

EX-115

RDH: jmr

CLASSIFIED BY: SP& MALCO

REC-34

105-83564-8

CONTINUED - OVER

SON:

1.5

(e,d.)

CONE

DECLASSIFY ON: X Cle

Пк) 2/10/95

Classified by .

38 JUN 22 1976

Bren

(5668 sio/gel 3/5/39 SF2) Date

*FOM GOS

Catego:

of Declassifica

•Indei

SECRET

Rein. 77.8. Sauinor Raude Rentilaron the Passil Sasinas Plass

DocId: 32319468

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDE!

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt

Re.:

Ilona Marita Lorenz

The attached newspaper stories alleged that "Alex

Rorke, a wealthy adventurer who worked for both CIA and the

FBI" was involved with Frank Fiorini, a "CIA Agent,' who recruited

the time of the alleged plot in 1960, was a free lance

photographer.

"alleged plot ine

He had been temporarily detained by the Cuban

Government in 1959 and for many years was active in anti-Castro

activities in the Florida area. From time to time he contacted

the FBI and was dealt with at arms length because of his

adventurer, personality and self-serving motives. He disappeared

on a plane flight in 1963 to Central America. Frank Fiorini

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis was well known to the EBI

for his anti-Castro activities in the U. S. following his=

defection from Cuba in 1958. He was also one of the Watergate

break-in subjects.

Additional information in FBI files

indicates that the

subject also furnished information concerning the July 26th

Movement in the U. S.. This group-was the original political and

military organization which Castro used to overthrow the Batista

Regime in Cuba.. The subject was also interviewed in 1962 in

Florida regarding a

White Slavery Traffic Act (WSTA) case and

admitted being the mistress of Marcos Perez Jimenez, former

President of Venezuela, who fathered her daughter. Investigation

WSTA case.

The subjett that was a victim

furnishes

information on Soviet and Soviet-bloc matters.

present wite (ot 7511-ho

above mentioner

is aware of her husbands cooperation with the New York Office and

has, on occasion, volunteered information of value. The subject

is presently separated from her husband and in April, 1976, the

New York Office opened a potential criminal informant file on her

because of her contacts with a New York area crime figure,

Guiseppe Faggiano, and a race horse trainer. She furnished

information regarding gambling, shylocking

and bank robbery

• matters

However, because of the recent

publicity set out in the attached

newspaper clippings, the fact that she is planning to write a book

concerning her cuban experiences and the fact thelosed terminated

ner contact with criminal elements,her case was

New York Office.

- 3 .

SECRET

DocId: 32319468 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 210%

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

7/2/76

JFK T

AIRTEL

Cane

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

FROM:

SAC, DALLAS (89-43) (P)

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

00: DALLAS

to Dallas, 6724/161a9 6729) to Bureau, 5/24/76, and Bulets

Re: Typewritten note signed "SANDRA RUBY"

Enclosed for the Bureau are five (5) copies of

LHM which is self-explanatory.

No further action is contemplated UACB.

LONES IRPORNATION CONTAINED

NEATEIN L5 UNCLASSIDTXD

OTHERWISE

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SC0/8O

REASON: 15 1CC

DECLASSIFY ON: X. (16)

(JR) 3/8/99

Bureau (Encl. 5)

2 - Dallas

RPG: cl

(4)

SANDRA RUBY

(105-26410776)

1994 was creding in went

comfield, su chegan with huston

SECRET

DocId: 32319468 Page 11

---

