# docid-32299519

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10299

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-1256

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/14/1964

2

ABR, ASSOC, B/F INT, BANK ACCOUNT.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v91

DocId: 32299519

Page 1

265

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

' DẦTE: 11-14-2017

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S.

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 1 4 1964

TELETY

Vr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Casper_

Mr. Callahan_

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoache

Mr. Evans Ha

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy.

BABI PHILA

8:38PM EDST URGENT 8-14-64 WAM

Michelat

DIRECTOR (92-2717)

FROM: SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-444) 2P

stoffe

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA.; AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

faces

BRUNO MET WITH TELIX JOHNDE TULLIO PRIVATELY FOR TWENTY FIVE

MINUTES AT IWELVE FORTY A.M., THIS DATE, AT FRIENDLY BAR, PHILA.

BeC

SOURCE ADVISED PETER MAGGIO RECEIVED ENVELOPE ADDRESSED TO HIM

AS PRESIDENT OF G AND M REALTY COMPANY, POSTMARKED AUGUST FIVE, LAST,

FROM MERCANIILE BANK, MIAMI BEACH, FLA: ENVELOPE CONTAINS IWO CANCELED

CHECKS DRAWN ON G AND M ACCOUNI, PAYABLE IO EDWARDAOUIROLO AND PHILO-

MENA. CHECKS BEAR CANCELLATION STAMP DATED JULY SIXTEEN, LAST, OF

JACKSONVILLE, FLA., BRANCH, FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA. ONE CHECK

IS IN AMOUNI OF SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS, SECOND FOR FIVE THOUSAND,

NINETY TWO DOLLARS AND TWENTYNINE CENTS. BANK STATEMENT INDICATES G

AND M ACCOUNT, AS OF JUNE THIRTY, LASI, MAD BALANCE OF SIXTY SIX THOUS-

AND NINE HUNDRED AND NINE DOLLARS AND NINETY THREE CENTS. AS OF JULY

END PAGE ONE.

REC 30

EX 110

92=2712=125%

• AUG. 18 1964

6 9 AUG 21 1964

DocId: 32299519 Page 2

---

