# docid-32286563

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10195-10339

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-120

Released under the John

Ussassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note).

Cased:NT 45966 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1960

'PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, ACT, TELCAL, BKG, INCOME TAX, REL, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

_02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

19.1

HH 45966

DocId: 32286563

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-88

- ADMINISTRATIVE

Three (3) copies of this report are forwarded to

the Bureau, in order that one copy may be transmitted to

Legat, Havana, inasmuch as Legat will continue to maintain

coverage of subject in Cuba noting that the administrative

pages of this report contain telephone numbers that may be

of some particular interest in finally establishing what

telephone subject may be using in havana.

The lead for the Miami Division at Miami,

Florida, to examine the records of Cubana and Pan

• American

Airlines for a two week period was not covered

at Miami,

Florida, inasmuch as past experience indicated that there

were so many flights arriving in Miami dally, that even a

search of manifests covering one day's flights would be a

huge

task.

Borat 10 a 95, ene

Relative to this report, setting out subject

maintaining residence in Havana,

ALBERTO SUAREZ ALEMAN, PCI,

Doorman at apartment where subject resides in Havana, related

on November 23, 1959, that subject had not returned to

Havana from Jacksonville, Florida.

Reiative to Associate SALVATORE G. SCALIA RUGIERES,

aka., SALVATORE G. SCALIA, set out in this report,

HAV - 32 has advised that this individual shot a girl in

Havana with whom he was maintaining intimate relations but

this girl did not die and upon recovery she stated she had

accidently shot herself.

This shooting occurred on

November 13, 1958, and due to the influence SCALIA had

with SANTO TRAFFICANTE, this incident was not made an official

record. Also, HAV - 32 and 33 have stated that SCALIA became

to think of himself as a "biggshot and gangstor" ano

actually became a nuisance to TRAFFICANTE so that

TRAFFICANTE was glad that SCALIA left Havana.

These sources.

were of opinion that if SCALIA was seeking a liquor license,

the club may be backed by subject or he will be recommended

by TRAFFICANTE.

The Jacksonville Office advised all of the

confidential informants, Jacksonville Dision, in the

Jacksonville

and. Duval County area, were alerted for any

contacts and' information concerning the activity of

B.

- COVER PAGE -

12?-1r»

HH 45966 DooId: 32286563 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MMY 92-88

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

JR., and his associates.

These informants,

upon contact immediately subsequent to the

• trial and through

January 28, 1960, advised they could report no contacts

made by any of the TRAFFICANTE

associates with Jacksonville

people.

JOHN DE

¡SALVO, Jacksonvite liquor dealer, former

gambler, presently being developed as a PCI, Jacksonville

Division,

visit with HENRY he determined that SANTO TRAFFICANTE WaS

extremely worried (1) regarding his vast financial 'holdings

in Cuba, (2) the racket inquiries presently underway in

the New York area, and (3) the outcome of the present trial.

DE SALVO stated that HENRY TRAFFICANTE said that he felt that

if SANTO TRAFFICANTE did not have the Cuba area available for

his operations, he did not know where he would go, and

he was particularly concerned about the situation, and,

not only in view of his heavy financial commitments, but

also as a place to locate. He was also considerably worried

due to the distressing outlook in both instances. DE SALVO

stated that he did not consider any of this group interested *

In any expansion of TRAFFICANTE's activities into the

Jacksonville area, the general impression being that their

present problems in Cuba plus instant Internal Revenue trial

were occupying their interests.

The Jacksonville Office advised Mr. JAMES DEW,

November i made

December 14, 1959. Mr. DEW made available on a confidential

basis the following record of phone calls made from these

rooms:

On 11/19/59 SANTO TRAFFICANTE received incoming

collect call 12:45 AM from Havana, Cuba, Number 3-9435,

talked 26 minutes.

On 11/19/59 SANTO TRAFFICANTE called Tampa,

Number 4-34591, at 6:41 PM, talking 4 minutes.

C.

- COVER PAGE -.

102105351

HH

45966 DooId: 32286563 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM

92-88

Relative to subject's travel status,

EDGAR ADAIR,

Special Agent, Internal Revenue Service, Intelligence Unit;

who was the Agent assisting United States

Attorney JAMES

L. GUILMARTIN, In prosecution of subject in United States

District Court, Jacksonville, Florida, advised SA STEPHEN

J. LABADIE as of January 25, 1960, and February 2, 1960,

that

JFK. Law 11(a)

IRS

REVERNES BY FEUFK TASK FORGE

ON

7/22/98d0

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE $N PART

TOTAL DENIAL

EX

- COVER PAGE -

92298412097)

HH 45966

DooId: 32286563

Page 4

---

