# docid-32286229

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10195-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1346

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

LEG, BN

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/27/1964

7

SGI, ADMIN PROCEDURES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USSS

COMMENTS :

REFERRED TO USSS. INC 2 LTR, ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32286229

18

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under. the John. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: I1-14-2017°

OPTiONAL ORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-105-03

SA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE:

2-27-64

Mason: Legat, BoRn (92-18) (RUC;

SEE REVERSE

SIDDER

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

119/1

SUBJECT:

IANCANA

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BY BOUTING

SLIP(S) U.

DATE 103

REASON-FC Li

REV

OF.

DATE

M

SAMUEL

• M.

ARJA

Re Bonn cable 11-26-63 and Chicago LHM 12-9-63. U

Enclosed are three copies of a letter dated

2-21-64, addressed to this office and also to the U.S.

Treasury Representative at the American Embassy in Paris,

France, by the Bundeskriminalamt (BKA - West German Federal

This reflects the results of an inter-

view by German authorities with Hermine Tijerina nee Willig,

aka Hermine Braga, 4(4)

It is noted that Braga denies any knowledge of

either the subject or Charles English.

Her information also

indicates that Jeanette Braga is not identical with June Korsa

As indicated in re Bonn cable a copy of the

original BKA teletype in this matter was furnished through

the Customs Representative at Frankfurt/Main, Germany, to

Mr. John H. Hanly, Special Agent in Charge, U. S. Secret

Service, American

Embassy, Paris, France.

Also enclosed are three Photostats of a letter

addressed by. Mr. Hanly to the Bundeskriminalamt dated 1z17-6.

referring to information in the 3kA teletype. du)

The enclosed material is furnished for the Bureau's

information, and it is suggested that copies be provided to

Chicago.

Since this matter does not fall within the primary

jurisdiction of the Bureau and since the agency apparently

having primary jurisdiction, the Treasury Department, is in

possession of all information available to this office, no

LHM is being

Da prepared. J

CEASIGTEIOD BY

2ЬЕСIСАЛі

EXEMPO FRIGG COS

CATEGORY (9-5-78)

sE."

DATE OT DECONSOI

Bureau (Encs

RATION ENDATE ENA REG

( Lila son let

REQ 17.

2-3

1 - Bonn

GAV : kmm

(51)

EN

CLOSURE

ENCLOSURE ATTACHED SOT-XI

MAR 1 01964

CONFIdENTIAL

„IED EX

DocId: 32286229

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 US 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

ENCLOSURE

3/71.

134

DECLASSIFIED PY SPe gak/Bur

ON -

2/20/85

CONNENTIAL

DocId:32286229

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. "Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE:

11-14-2017

BUNDESKRIMINALAMT

DEUTSCHES ZENTRALBURO DER INTERNATIONALEN KRIMINA POLIZEILICHEN ORGANISATION

INTERPOL WIESBADEN

BUREAU CENTRAL DE LA REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE D'ALLEMAGNE - CENTRAL BUREAU OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY

NA/B_G -W 66 429

Bel Antwortschreiben bitte angeben.

Prière rappeler dans la réponse, la date et les indications ci-dessus.

In reply, please refer to this file number and date.

62 WIESBADEA? 1st

February, 1964

Pootfach A

Trânkweg / Fernruf 5831

Tolex: 01186-867 - Interpol Wbn.

Legal

Attache

US

Embassy

532 Bad Godesberg

United States Treasury Represen-

tative, US Embassy

APO 230, US Forces

Paris (France)

'Secrétariat

Général del'OIPC

37 b15,

rue Paul Valéry

Paris (16e

Subject: Alleged forwarding

of counterfeit money

from Chicago to Bettenhausen (Kassel).-

Hermine TIJIRINA, née WILLIG, called BRAGA,

born on 28th July, 1932 at STUTTGART.

Ref.

:Letter of the US Treasury

Representative,

Us imbassy.

Paris dated 17-12-1963.-

Letter of Legal Attache,

US Embassy,

Bad

Godesberg, dated 20-12-1963 No. 92/18.

Radio Paris SG No. 36 339/116284/PF dated

17-12-63

Dear sirs,

Referring to the above-mentioned correspondence,

I have the honour of advising you of the following details:

In the course of proceedings - file no. 3 a Js 11/

64. - the Kassel Public Prosecutor's Office had caused the.

accused TIJERINA, née WILLIG, called BRAGA,

to be ques-

tioned. When interrogated on

she advised

that

she

was married

to the US national and soldier Loren-

stationed at Missouri/Texas.

nished at the start of the

questioning with a view

to put-

ting things right. She fürthermore stated, that on 19 May

1962 the marriage was contracted in Texas. However, she is

now living seperated from her husband and is on frienaly terms

with the US national Nick BRAGA from Chicago. On 26 April 61,

92-3171-1346

-2-

DoCId: 32286229 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017÷

- 2 -

she left Germany for the United States of North America in

order to live with BRAGA at 1710 West,

77th Street. BRAGA

had told his parents that TIJEKINA was his wife. For this

reason she is known under the name of BrAGA only with the

relatives and friends in Chicago. Nick BRAGA intends to marry

PLUCKINA after her marriage will perhaps

have been dissolved.

Questioned with regard to the above-mentioned affair, TIJakINA

gave the following information:

"I have been informed of the contents of the here-present

letter,

sent anonymously from Chicago to the Bundeskriminal-

ant. In this letter,

the name of Jeannette BRAGA is being

mentioned. Jeannette BrAGA is my future sister-in-law.

is now approx. 18 years of age and lives with her parents

in the immediate neighbourhood of the place where Nick BRAGA

,and 1 are residing.

The other names mentioned in the let-

ter - Charles ENGLISH and Sam GIANCANA - of Chicago are un-

known to me. The letter says that jeanette BRAGA is on

friendly terms with harles ENGLISH. This I would like to

put into doubt.jo far, jeanette BRaGa has not had any boy

friend. Her parents are very

severe towds her, and she

is, for instance, not allowed to go away by herself in the

evening. I also positively deny having received countẻr-.

feit money from Chicago. Jeanette BRAGA has written only

once so far, but she never sent me any dollars, and Nick

BRAGA dropped me a line shortly befor Christmas 1963 to

the effect that he and June KORSAK known to us had been

visited by the criminal police. The police officers asked

them what I had taken to Germany. They said that I might

have taken drugs to Germany. Today, I quite understand

the reason why the criminal police made enquiries,

it has been established here that the anonymous letter

has been written by June KORSAK, whom I knew

BRAGA's mother. She (Korsak)

also lives in our immediate niegh-

bourhood and

alsonear BRAGA's parents. She deals

lette articles,

a representative

for EVON-articles. She also is on friendly terms with Nick

BRAGA's parents and also came to see us.

When I had decided

to go to

Nick BRAGA's mother spoiled my repu-

tation with consid. Shetold her that I only went to Ger-

many in order to see the child's father. She did not know

thatlIJERINA was the child's father. Nick BRAGA never

mentioned the thing to her and I was not in a position to

enlighten her because of Nick BRAGA's lies. BRAGA's parents

do not know that I am married to TIJERINA.

ca,

I went to by toilette articles with KORSAK.

hat KORSAK has been questioned by the police asa result

of this purchase.

I have

learned

that she cooperates with

the Chicago criminal police. She

advises to have to go to restaurants by order of the police

in order to lind out 1l prostitutes are staying there and

if drugs are being on sale. She then passes her observations

on to the police. She furthermore stated that she received

girls on probation who had been caught violating the law

and were

to be placed into homes. I believed everything

she said because she made a good impression upon me

-3-

195-100-6

DopId: 32286229

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F! Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017.•

-3-

and. I was in a foreign country and did not know KORSAK

really well."

since August 1963, the accused TIJERINA has been stay-,

ing as a visitor with her mother at Kassel and has so far

not taken any definite decision as to whether she will re-

turn to the USA or not. She is still a German national.

In 1958 she came to the notice of our authorities

here because she had violated the traffic law.

There

are

no further criminal-police informations on this person.

The Kassel Public Prosecution do

not think necessary

, to ask for more documents. The handwritten and typed do-

cuments seem to prove that June KORSAK mentioned by you

may be taken into consideration as the author of the ano-

nymous letter. She is however not identical to Jeanette

as has been presumed in the FBI letter from Chi-

You would oblige me

by letting me know in due time

the exact personal

data,

t00.

THIN

LA M

Yours

faithfully,

(DI.

for the President

legemeyer

the

Bundeskriminalamt.

Trs1.-3997-

21-2-1964/1

DocId: 32286229

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F.

11-14-2017

Kenre dtr

Assassination Records Collection Aot pf 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel>

WISENTIAL

50-2-30,531

Americon Babassy

Paris, France

17 Decenber 1963

Mr. Paul Alckopl

Bundescrimina lant

Trees

Wiestaden, Germany

Dear Mr.

Dickopi:

Roference is nado to toletypo nasange sont Bron Intarpol Wiesbadon,

on, 2o lovanber 1963 concerning counterfeit U.S. ourrency allegedly

The tolotypo wan addreased to the legal Attacho at the Anarlean Finbasey,

Dad Codeshers c(u)

The author of the anoyous communication is belleved to be June ix Koreak

Thare aro anolosed photosopias oi one handritten and one typewrit

letter authored by Kormal, in which she uses the proudoryng "Jan Ila

and Jeanette Braga".

Thoy sre forvardad as of possible use in Ident

the iriter of the lotter cont to BEA:

Very tirely yours,

cc: Mr.

Van Noy,

Legal Attaché

Us. Embassy, Bad Codeshers TU

JHidz

4224

John Il. Hanly

Spoolal Agent in Charg

13830eTA6

BV-93

9:2:18.

M INDEFINITE

CONFIRTAL

2/20/55

Серкен 9-1125

Serge kung q2.3171-13+6.

10/14/53:

DocId: 32286229 Page 7

---

