# docid-32334456

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10162

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-124

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/09/1965

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

N₩ 45880

DocId: 32334456

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

AIRTEL

CONFIDENTIAL

• AIR MAIL

MAR 9

1965

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5101)

RICHARD E. COTTEN, aka.

Richard B. Cotton

RM

"MINUTEMEN"

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

Glassified by SAD/BT

Declassify on: 0A08 12121

121 326

dated

Re Los Angeles teletypes to the Bureau, HEREITE UGLASGINIED

ANd IS BOFFATTON CONTAINED

3/6 and 8/65.

dated

3/5/65.

Miami teletype to the Eureau, EXCEPT ERE SHOWN

OTHEFNISE.

Enclosed for the Bureau are eight copies of a

letterhead

memorandum concerning captioned matters.

Enclosed for the Miami Office are two xerox copies

of Los Angeles airtels to the Bureau dated 3/2/65 and 2/26/65

captioned

aka. INFORMATION

OF WATER AND POWER, Los Angeles,

California, 4:00 A.M. -

2/25/65, POSSIBLE BOMBING MATTER"

respectively and two

letterhead memoranda

concerning these matters.

information is being furnished Miami for information purposes.

DECLASSIRICO MY 5668 5U0 IRSA

-

Atlanta

-

(Encls.-‹

Chicago (EncIs: -2 RM

4-297.

(JFK).

105-4921-1241

Enc 1s

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

Ange les

1 - 157-Dead) (RICHARD COTTEN)

MAR 1 1 1965

LOB;sas

(18)

dig, 51-1268

FBI - MIAMI

DOWVING

CONFIDENTIAL"

105-4291-124

1 1W 45880 DocId: 32334456

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

LA 62-5101

A copy of this letterhead memorandum is being

Government Agencies have an

interest in captioned matter.

A copy is being furnished San Diego for information

inasmuch as information is set forth in the next paragraph

which may be of interest to the San Diego Office.

copies to Los Angeles captioned l

Lon Angel b etion to Portland dated 9/20/50 A

POTENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMANT" requested recipient offices to search

indices concerning relatives of this individual who was under

development by the San Diego Office.

RICHARD B. COTTEN,

1821 - 18th Street, Bakersfield, California, was shown as

a son. Los Angeles has no information as to the results of

this inquiry by the San Diego Office.

This letterhead memorandum is classified confidential

as it contains information from LA 4486-R, the unauthorized

disclosure of which could

reasonably result in the identifica-

tion of a confidential informant of continuing value and

compromise future effectiveness thereof.

Information to SA REMAIN akers rield, calfornia, rumashed

SA CONRAD N. SHAW caused a search to be made of the

records of the Credit Bureau of Bakersfield

records a the Credit Bureau of Bakersfield, Bakersfield

MORRISON.

SA HARRY L. GRIFFIN caused a search to be made of

the arrest records of the Los Angeles Police Department.

First Source is LA 4486-R (134-1038-4)

.- 2 -

CONFILXINTIAL

NH 45880 DocId: 32334456 Page 3

-

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

CONTIUANTIAL

TiA 62-5101

Second source is

HARVEY B. SCHECHTER,

• Third Source is

KEITH D. THOMPSON,

Personnel Office

Postal Inspectors Office

Bakersfield, California

Jeemed advisable

Location instant

Fourth source is

CSLA 3184-S

(Location instant)

Files of the Los Angeles Office disclose no other

pertinent identifiable information than that contained in

this letterhead memorandum concerning the following:

EDNA BUSTER

•Committee of Christian Laymen of Kern County,

California

Conservative Viewpoint

MADELYN M. COTTEN

RICHARD HOSKINS

• ANNE LEREICK (DEREICK) (illegible)

EVELYN SCHROEDER

- 3 -

CONFILEIVIAL

NW 45880 DocId:32334456 Page 4

---

