# docid-32165004

## Page 1

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 05 2992-444 456 2107 Matel

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10157-10029

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-4106

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: RANKIN, J. LEE

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1964

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT:

LHO, POST-RP, BOOK, "THE SINNERS", NEMYLIWSKY, WALTER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

03/02/1999

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 LTR, LHM, A/T

DocId: 32165004 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

189

1 бад

"OPENED

# 196582555-4106

or 8 2 000 Bankla

18, do 8o

, оле ро

DOBS ET. HaRkes:

Catario, Canada. (U

o8 tho

a perist

•1 those portions ol Chapter Y uhora rolasence la sad

o too Harvey sewald. (2

atod tune 8, 108

• - Belsont

Johr

Delosch

- Brailgan

бика 18, 2884

IT GOURIES BBATICK

1 • L0n1ban

1.

1/21/999903 ROD/GATT(ague

classed by 545 SPAnN

• ака:н

WOON GNIONEY-O.OJH

19. 1800 г У! НПа,.,

COPY FIRED IN

UNRECORDED

ashanti caly baro do

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Roo

Holmes

Gandy

1 = balla

1 = Ottawa

(10010461) (B7c10Bure)

163-364)

1pt:

WN 2 2 1964g

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

(ONE NOTE PAGE TRO)

CLASSIFIED BY 56685W0/gel

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 6)

35123 2/22/59

DocId: 32165004 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

PATE: 17-11-2017

D:

CONTIDENTIAL

Honorable J. Lee Rankin

further investigation 1s being made

matter in the absence of

a specifie request from

you. (U

Upon

renoval of the classinted enclosures, X

this transnittal letter bocomes unclassified. (U

Sincerely yours,

V. Edgar Hoover

Enclosures (4)

NOTE JOR SAC,

DALLAS:

Enclosed for your information is one copy of k

referenced memorandum. (2

NOTE:

The translation was done by Thor Mychalus,,

Cryptanalysis-Translation Section

The book appears

to be

an anti-Semitic work.

The author

sketches Oswald's back.

ground and indicates Oswald assassinated President Kennedy

in accordance with "Moscow's plans." The memorandum contains

information fron RCUP about the author! background.

belleves that based on prior interview with the author it

would not be worthwhile to talk to him about the book.

is not believed we should ask RCNP to recontact the author

in the absence of a specific Commission request.

classified "Confidential" because memorandum from Legat,

Ottawa, so classified as taken from RIp letter

Classified by

8040

Exempt from CDS

• Date of Declariticoti

I

Indefinite

836A 7104/77

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32165004 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mdte).

DATE 36 Till 427917

"'""

FBI

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

Date: JUNE 8, 1964

CONFIDENTIAL

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :-

натрить

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (105-32555)

Legat, Ottawa (163-364)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R - CUBA

Classiftedly

2040

Exempt {can t05

Category

Dato di Declassification Indefinite

ReBuairtel 5/26/64, requesting interviw of WOLODYMYR

NEMYLIWSKYJ.

Enclosed are the original and two copies of RCMP

letter dated 6/5/64, as well as original and five copies of

letterhead memorandum setting out pertinent information in

RCMP letter for dissemination to the President's Commission

While the RCMP's letter does not so state, Inspector

Howard Draper, Directorate of Security and Intelligence, RCMP

Headquarters,

in making the letter available to this office

on 6/5/64, pointed out that if after review of the information

contained

therein, the Bureau still felt the interview. of

NENYLIWSKYJ was necessary, the RCMP would be more than happ

to comply with such a request.

Extra copies of this airtel are furnished for

the Dallas office (100-10461).

The letterhead memorandum is classified confidential

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 62=

Onscotine

'PAN

Encs.

GUNCLOSORE

C0141

6 - Bureau

12 - Da11a5 - Whined of close. REC 30p5=22555 4106

1 - Liaison direct).

6197-6751

1 - Ottawa

MLI: MEG

(7)

6/15/93

Classified by 9803R0oec

Wick iP Bedlassity on DADF JFK

62-108176,

17

JUN AT 1504

SOVIET

MAOMON

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32165004 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Redeased under the John F. "Kennedy ASSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONTIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

June 8, 1964

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

In connection with the book entitled "The Simerg"

written by Holodymyr Nemyliwekyj, a copy of which was forwarded

an envelope bearing the return address Wolodynyt

Nemyliwskya, T1 bim Grove eve.

Toronto 3, Ontario, Canada,

a confidential source abroad advised that WOLODYME NEWLIWSKYJ,

T1 Fin Grove Avenue, Toronto, has come to its attention

.. on

numerous occasiong in the past.

The source said NEMYLINSKYJ,

gho 1s also known as NEWYLIVSKY, has been the author of several

and described NEVYLTWSKYJ as a self-styled detective and under

cover investigacor,

first letter from

this individual, he had beon interviewed at his

residence and had been found te

be nentally disturbed and sulfering

tron a persecution complex,

(C

The source olted several instances of material received

from NENYLIVSKYJ to cubstantiate the above information and said 1t

felt

that any undertating to have hin intervieed concerting

comments set forth in his book corcerning LEE HARVEY OSWALD Mchald

prove fruitiese and would only serve in provoking hie mental

disturbance further.

The source advised further

that on March 23, 1964,

NEMYLIWSKYJ appearod ill police court in Toronto, Ontario, charged

with unlawfully being in a (welling house and impersonating a

police officer,

Charges were withdrawn on the charge of unlawfully

being ta a dwelling house, however, he was convicted and sentenced e

to 15 days on the charge of impersonating a police officer. (C)

4/14/89

classied by 1565 SDP/AHR

Aschassity on:_ DADR,

pational chined byst rotto

2040

elster Exempt from C

Stegory_

Date of Decler

Mation Indefinite

70007

CONFIDENTIAL

10-10,

lagreed 6154939803 RDo/fa Ste)

DocId: 32165004 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

UMTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONTEDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

June 8, 1064

LIE HARVEL OSWALD

In connection with the book ontitled "The liners"

vritton by Hololymy? Nemyliwalys, @ copy of which was forvarded

to the FBI in an envelope bearing the

rotara address Volodynyr

Toronto 3, Ontario,

Cansda,

• confidential source abroad advisod that WOLODYIR NENTLEVSKYJ,

71. VIn Grove Avenue,

Toronto, bas cone to its attention

DinerOus 000a31005

in the, past,

The souzce said NEMYLIWSKYS,

who 1o also known as NEIVLIVSET, hes beon the author of several

lettera to the sourco during the period between 1056 and 2904,

and doncribed NUXLIWI/Jos a self-styled detective and under

cover lovestigator.

The souree sdvised that on receipt of the

firet lotter from this individual, he had been intorviered at his

residence and had been Lound to be mentally.

disturbed and suffering

trom a persecution comples:

source ofted several instances of material received

from HENYLIVSKTJ to substentiato tho above infornation and said 1t

felt that any findertaking to have him interulered concerning

commente set forth in bie boot concoraing LAS HARVEY OSWALD

prove fruitless and would only serve in provoking his mental

disturbance further

The source advised further

that on March 23, 1964,

Nar Laways appeared in polleo count

4) Toronto, Ontario, charged

with unlawfully boing in a dwelling house and impersonating u

police ofsacer.

Charzos vore withdrawn on the charge of unlamully

being in a drolling bougo; however:

he was convicted and sentenced

to 15 days on the charge of impersonating a police officer. C

14/14/89

Classifled by

1565388/AHR

agreed 615539803 Rootle Ffre)

DocId: 32165004 Page 6

---

## Page 7

L Released "under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107,

Hotel.: -

DATE: •11-14-2017

ADDRESSEESPONDENCE TO DE

"THE COMMISSIONER,

R. с. м.

POLICE,

OTTAWA 8,

CANADA

FILE NO..

D 933-21533

HEADQUARTERS

OT TAWA 8,

CANADA

June 5, 1964.

CC-DN

XC-WFO

8-1-66

CONFIDENTIAL

Dear Mr. Innes:

This has reference to your memorandum dated May

28, 1964, re:

Harvey OSWALD, your reference 163-364.

Wolodymyr NEMYLIWSKYJ, 71 Elm Grove Avenue,

Toronto,

Ontario has come to the

attention of this Force

on previous occasions.

NEMYLIWSKYJ, also known as

has been the author of several letters

this Force

1956 and 1964.

He is a self-styled

detective and undercover investigator.

Upon receipt of

his first letter NEMYLIWSKYJ was visited by one of our

members at his residence and was found to be mentally

disturbed and suffering fron a persecution complex.

It is felt that any undertaking to have NEMYLIWSKYJ

interviewed along the lines of your memorandum would prove

fruitless and would only serve in provoking his mental dis-

turbance further.

To support our views,

quoted hereunder

from letters written to our Force by NEMYLIWSKYJ:

"I wish to inform you that I was subscribed

my foremans the "Ottawa Anti-Communist Report" at

the Stedman Bros. Ltd,

136 Portland St.,

(X-mas present).

are excerpts

Toronto.

This letter was falseficated with my

undersighning on it.

stupid foreman told me that,

he told that to his close friends and to my

cousin, whom I brought to Canada and have finded

him the job at this same company, where I am

"told me stupid"

(he has 4 years of the Public

My cousin was alarmed me, school, and I have

‹ years of the Husbandry Institute), and want to

and is troubling me about

Pat Walsh?

He has no full experience!!!

Why did

he send this letter?

If you don't fix this anarchy I will report

everything to Can Parliament & Government in

Ottawa.

Please forget for trouble you again I remain;

and your truly,

(Signed) Walter Nemyliwsky."

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY, IT MAY BE DISSEMI.

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

Moss

Lee

Innes,

c/o U.S. Embassy,

100 Wellington Street,

OTTAWA, Ontario.

•12

DocId: 32165004

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 2

-

D 933-21533

CONFIDENTIAL

Gardens Ave.,

nAve Tender oracos provocater

and sympathetic of the communists

He told the Mr. Ostap Krywonis, 262 Ossibgton

Ave., Toronto 3, Ontario,

LE 2-2614,

two the Ukrainian ladies who at the D. P.

Camp in Europe were reported the communists to

also were

U.S. Police there, a Toronto.

throttled-mordered

by the communists

He is helping me

sometime, too.

told me at 534

that Rev.

30 O'Hara,

Toronto

LE 5-2318 had unknown contact

Rev. K. Romaniuk,

that Rev.

Grove Ave sahajdakiwsky is

Toronto 3, Onto tola me

collaborating with

communists column.

The assistent of Rev.

Romaniuk

wife told the Rev. Romaniuk, that their

are aparted already,

also she doesn't want

accompany him. Rev. Romaniuk is expected,

that Rev.

Sahaydakiwsky signed some in Ukraine -

Wolynien

"deal"?...

Kindly correct, may be Rev.

Sahajdakiwsky is doing some detective work for

Canada..•

It seems for me same like Mr.

John Mokan

capitan"

that Mr. Shtyka, R.C.M.P. is "communists

who was

tion - Mr. Mokan

lied time under our investiga-

Italian stor of the men's wearing at Queen &

Spadina is charging more money - means

over the

shoved price who took $1.00 last May l6th inst.

for the from me.

Operator of Street car No. 4274 at 5:45 P.M.

yesterday

at King and Close

Street didn't wanted

his street car before

"Pedestrians sighn"

and rang up his signals and was cried on the woman,

crossing King Street on "Pedestrians" sighn.

Street car operators don't want to open front doors

at usually street car stop on King Street - not

light flashing streets.

Mr. Ed. Andrew,

85 Eglinto Str. E., Rehabilita-

tion Branch of the Dept.

of Publi

Welfare was

me out the Adult Retraining School Last month

I and 0. Krywonis we were

investigated at the

Poulstering

I class Mr. Leonard Klenard - jew

who was

ganga at

communistene, class?

spreaded the communists propa-

Mr. Andrew likes to fight with

all Cnda fascists

& nazi, but the communists don't

trouble him

- worthly.

Who is he himself?! He

isn't politician...

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE

INFOK-

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY, IT MAY BE DISSEMI-

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

NOT TO BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

0/3

DocId: 32165004 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

11-11-2017

- 3-

1 933-21533

CONFIDENTIAL

therefore, Mr. Nick Sahaydakivsky, son

of Rev.

Vitaly sahayaaklusky, 02 Wilson,

Toronto 3, Ont. probably (Iam expecting) had

stolen my wallet with two detective identifica-

tions who is often travelling to Europe (I left

him reading the books at my room and gone

washroom.

Also look after yourself or senc

your friends for exchange.

Jou can give this

case to Mr. Shtyka and Giveruku, R.C.M.P.

Don't sent your helpers to the communists

hall without a identification or a gun !!!

(Signed) Sincerely - Walter Nem., Detective."

5.

On February 13, 1964 the following letter

was

received at our Lethbridge,

Alberta office from Mr. Wolodymyr

VEMYLIWSKYJ, 71 Elm Grove Avenue, Toronto: '

that I will move in next

March to Alberta where

"I, hereby notify, would help you to look

after the communists movements what I am doing

this since 1950 in Canada as one of the best Cnda

Citizens and the detective.

References:

1. Mrs. S. Wityk, 1257-10 Ave.

2.

Lethbridge, Alta;

No Roman Lytwynec, 11432-111 .

A. Ave., Edmonton, Alta.

Respectfully yours,

(Signed)

Walter NemyLiwsky,

Detective

and Professional Investigator.

On March 23, 1964 NEMYLIWSKYJ appeared in Police

Court at Toronto, Ontario, charged with unlawfully being in

a dwelling house and impersonating a police officer.

were withdrawn on the

charge of unlawfully being in a dwelling

house, however,

NEMYLIWSKYJIwas convicted and sentenced to

fifteen days on the charge of impersonating a police officer.

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUT AGENCY. IT MAY DE DISSEUI.

MATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

NOT TO BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

(J.R.W. Bordeleau),

Assistant Commissioner,

Director

Security and Intelligence.

CONFIDENTIALI

DocId: 32165004 Page 9

---

