# docid-32390356

## Page 1

Date: 02/11/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10408-10160

RECORD

SERIES. : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : BARKER, LAWERNCE F.

TO : FOR THE RECORD

TITLE : MEMO: MEETING 27 DECEMBER 1963

DATE : 01/05/1964

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : OSWALD, LEE

DURAN,

SILVIA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 11/14/98

COMMENTS

JFK-RH04 : F103: 1998.11.14.09:55:12:500109 : MISSING

PAGES

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10408-10160

1N 53320

Doc1d: 32390356

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

5 January 1964

MEMDRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM 8 Lawrenco F. Barker

SUBJECT: Meeting with LITAMIL-9, 27 December 1963

I. A nesting with I-9 was held in B's car fron 2000 uat1l 2140 hours

27 Dacember.

and this was made me site dealer i eddie:

osa PROENZA Proenza

In view of her

Importanco in the AMROD operation - (See, MEXI 7613 and MEXI 7625)

Ho had no further information to offer about inis but roported that Silvia

had not retarned to work at the Consulato since her releaso fro arrest the

second time. This was reported to HQS. (See MaXI 7615)

4. B apologized for not having been able to find in the States sone

oil paints which In9 needs.

Six different art supply dealers in Arizona and

Callorala wore tried without results. The paints will be roquested from.

5. I-9 reported on the following additional topica:

so Ing had receired as of that dats only one Christzas New Yeary

gresting card fron a Mexican Government official.

In past years he receired

largo numbers of these cards.

The one came fran the Maxican Sub-Director of

Cultural Relations. I-9 ascribes this to the resentment caused among Mexican

officialder by the strong note received fron Raul ROA, Cuban FOMIN, in regard

to the dutention of Silvia Duran. Apparently word had been passed to Mexican

officials that they were to give the Cubans the cold shoulder.

D. ROldoliO REYES, a Mexican citizen uno worka la Cuba for the Cuban

Taatro Folklorico, was recently in towl.

He said that Fidel CASTRO had recantly

remarked that Cuba should use its theatrical group to eary dollars abroad. REYES

said that & M. PLANCHON and six other Parisian emprosarios connected with

Teatro de las Naciones in Paris would be travalling to Cuba in the near futur.

to see what could ba done about putting the Cuban show on the road.

Co Tas wall-knows Mexican cartoonist RIUS (true name Eduardo DEL RIO)

who was achedaled to be a guest of the Cuban government at the Anniversary

colebration on 2 Jan in Havana, did not get a Cuban visa. A cable came into

to Embassy advising of this and saying that RIls would be notified directly by

& separate letter of the reasons for this refusal.

Sines RIUS is an outstanding

propagandist for the Communist cause, L-? could only conjecturg that this

development was relatad to the rAng ailan hadban Government'g desire

uses a name sonething like RAM)

Another cartoonist, who

treatment.

do Rogelio RODRIGUEZ

ed sone gifts fros someone

inside ta Czech Embassy at Chris

WOMan

An Australian newspapertar named Jultan or Jullian

ROEBETSON vAs

in town on

* 23 Docember, staying at Room Lol of the Gran Hotel Irabel,

Catolica # 63. She was trying te get a visa to visit Cube but Had tastees ta

SEGRET

/ 1365

P-6079

8003714

60

PAGE

COPY

NO.

or 65

HH 53320

DocId: 32390356

Page 2

---

