# docid-32294252

## Page 1

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10028

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 87-66742-140

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection act of 199z

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Cases:NT 45966 Date:

11-20-2017

Date:

6/11/201

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LENIHAN, JOHN P.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/31/1963

'PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :

CWB, ASSOC, ACT, TRA, INQUIRY, NUMEROUS INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

| HH 45966

14

DocId: 32294252

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JEK Act 6 (4)

MM 87-16480

REFERENCES (continued):

Chicago teletypes to the Bureau dated

8/17, 22 and 23/63.

Chicago airtels to the Bureau dated 8/20/63.

Miami airtel to Chicago dated 8/22/63.

Tampa airtel to the Bureau dated 8/26/63.

Bureau airtel to Miami dated 8/27/63.

Miami teletype to Denver dated 8/28/63.

Denver teletype to Miami dated 8/28/63.

-P-

LEADS

CHICAGO:

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS:

1. Will continue contacts with PCI

CG 6656-PC-TE as well as other informants or sources who

know of ALDERISIO's activity for any reactions on his part

since he probably suspects there is an investigation under

way regarding him. Any indications of his method of inter-

state travel to or from Miami, Florida about May or June,

1962, should be promptly and thoroughly checked out.

2. Chicago is also requested to consider any

extended coverage or utilization of highly confidential

sources on either ALDERISIO or his associates in order to

obtain all possible information to develop this case.

DENVER:

t.

AT DENVER, COLORADO:

1. Will maintain contact with EGAN to promptly

obtain any records he might have to establish the date of

the meeting between him and ALDERISIO in RAY's Miami Beach,

Florida office:

B

• COVER PAGE -

NW 45966 DooId: 32294252 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 87-16480

3. When JAMES GILLECE, Security Chief of the

Fontainebleau Hotel was contacted he stated the only

Chicago former police officer who has worked for him

during the past few years is LUTRELL "ED" WHITE, who

resides at 1800 Northeast Bayshore Drive, Miami, Florida,

telephone FR 4-2450. WHITE worked as a security man at the

Fontainebleau Hotel

from 12/22/62 to early 8/63. WHITE

should be interviewed to determine if he recalls ALDERISIO

being at the hotel during the period of his employment

and even though this employment was after the meeting in

question he might know of the alias ALDERISIO uses and might

have some suggestions on how ALDERISIO's registration might be

verified for the pertinent period.

4. Will write both the Minneapolis and Atlanta

Offices to determine exactly how the airline tickets for

Northwest Airlines as well as Delta Airlines are maintained

since ultimately an exhaustive examination of airline tickets

will have to be made in an attempt to prove the interstate

transportation of ALDERISIO.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Bureau has previously instructed that this

case be given top priority. There is every indication that

Attorney General ROBERT KENNEDY is personally interested in

this case and therefore, all leads should be expeditiously

covered and promptly reported.

INFORMANTS

On 8/29/63, MM 830-C was contacted by SA ROBERT

F. FETZNER and the informant made inquiry, through his sources

at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, in an effort to

locate a registration card on ALDERISIO for the period

of about May or June, 1962, but the informant was not able to

obtain any information.

= D =

- COVER PAGE

HH 45966 DooId: 32294252 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 87-16480

"'TONY" ODDO told BENJAMIN that JOAN DRAHMANN is the daughter

of a prominent Miami hoodlum named "TRIGGER MIKE" COPPOLA.

TASK FORCE

INQUIRY AI AIRLINES

JEK Law 11(a)

At Miami, Florida

On August 5, 1963, SA THOMAS E. O'CONNOR contacted

CHARLES POWERS, Supervisor of Passenger Statistics, Eastern

Airlines, Miami, Florida. POWERS said he believes

Eastern

Airlines, Northwest Airlines and Delta Airlines are the

only carriers that have direct flights between Miami and

Chicago, Illinois.

He stated Eastern Airlines and Delta

Airlines each have six flights daily and Northwest has

three flights daily. POWERS estimated that each of the

Eastern Airlines flights carries an average of 100 passengers +

and although the airplanes have a capacity of 135 passengers

they are rarely filled and he would estimate that they transport

600 passengers daily from Chicago to Miami.

He stated his

airline's passenger tickets are preserved for two years after

they are used

and they are filed by flight number and the date

of the flight. He pointed out because of certain accounting

posed not

procedures all of the airline's tickets for a particular

flight would not be in one place and therefore, he would estimate

that it would take one man one day to check one day's Eastern

Airlines flights between Chicago and Miami.

On August 5, 1963, SA O'CONNOR contacted JAMES

ROBERTSON, Station Manager of Delta Airlines who stated

their tickets, which are kept for two years, are filed in

their Atlanta

headquarters and he is pretty

' sure the tickets

7/2/58004

CLOSE IN FULL

are filed by date chronologically. Therefore, if a search

made for a particular airline flight for a certain day,

and sequine that che elder sor el pamenget transported

RELEASE

• 3-

TUTI

87-66742-140

NW 45966

DocTd: 32294252

Page 4

---

## Page 5

• MM 87-16480

On August 28, 1963, Departmental Attorney

ROBERT D. PELOQUIN stated he had determined that ALDERISIO

apparently also uses the aliases PHIL GATO, PHIL ALGONESE

and PHIL ELDERISE. Mr. PELOQUIN stated if the interstate

transportation on the part of ALDERISIO had been ascertained

byl

he would attempt to return an indict-

ment on ALDERISIO, however, since it had not yet been verified

he would plan on presenting some data before

the Grand Jury

in connection with the case.

JEK Law 10(a)2

On August 29, 1963,

Messers. PELOQUIN and HARRINGTON

were contacted

and stated their present plan was to bring

before the

Federal Grand Jury meeting in Miami

They related there was a possibility

might be

accompanied by an attorney, in which case they would make their

contacts with him without the attorney's knowledge and

tentative arrangements were made for them to interview

in Nassau a few days later. They related

was continuing

to cooperate on other matters relating to hoodlum activities

in the Chicago area that he was familiar with but would not

latera

discuss the loan obtained from the Pan American Bank in Miami.-

• 8%

87-66742-140

| AN 45966

DocId: 32294252

Page 5

---

