# docid-32339807

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90152-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-184784-4

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54462 Date:

40-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SJ

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/18/1969

ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

HH

54462

DocId: 32339807

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ANTONIO VECIANA BLANCH .

veciana displayed disgustern ladlictes or

the United States Government and the actions of United

States officials in their posture regarding Cuba.

Veciana

belleves the United States has abandoned the cause of

freedom for Cuba

Castro regime.

FlA

veciana told Pineda to organize public demon-

strations and

armed attacks in order to annoy the United

States and create problems. Vecians said he would

contribute $3,000 to $5,000 per month to support these

activities.

He told Pineda that when he became organized

35,000 that*

and ready to begin these activities, he should contact

Veciana's wife, Cira, who resides in Miami, who would

give Pineda, the money. Veciana admonished Fineda to

keep in contact with the local leaders

o as to work in accordance with them

She SNrT-A-66

478) 9557-7

a source with whon contact was 0-

limited to establish reliability, advised on August Ts

1958, that he is a close friend of Veciana and that

Veciana is presently in Bolivia working for the Banco

Internacional de Desarrollo (International Development

Bank) (BID).

Source said that Veciana has been in

Bolivia only a short time and will remain there for

approximately six months.

Veciana is not involved in any type anti-castro activities

se involved in sou

Source stated that he believes

and that if veciana were involved, the source would know about

it.

Source

said that the headquarters of the BID 18 in

Washington, D. C.

Source stated that when Veciana is in

Puerto Rico, he is the Director of the Puerto Rico Promotions

and

Entertainment Inc., which promotes athletic affairs

such as boxing matches, etc.ii

The records of the Division of Motor Vehicles of

the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico were searched by an Agent

of the FBI on August 23rd and September 9, 1968, in the name

of the subject and no record was located which would be

identical with the subject.

-2-

SE

LET

3 79 21

SENTAT

HH 54462

DocId: 32339807

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ANTONIO VECIANA ELANCH

CARTINI

Xon September 20,

1966, ST T-3* Whe

furnished reliable information

in the past and who

personally acquainted with veclana, advised that Veciana,

whe had been the treasurer of

the

SNFE, WaS

no longer

connected with the organization.

fon october 4, 1900g so Inwho

i8

member of

the SNrE,

advised that to his knowledge, Veclane has

had

no connection with the SNFE for several years.

said that the last he had heard,

Veciana

This Informant

Was

residing in

Puerto Rico and was not active in anti-Castro affairo.

identifiable with

the subject.

(xm)

On November 22, 1965, J IT-5g & source who has

furnished reliable information in the past and who is

familiar with anti-Castro activity in the San Juan, Fuerto

RiCO

ared,

advised that he has determined that Antonio

Vecians is

apparently not engaged in any anti Castro activity

and has not been for some time. *Information on his

whereabouts can be altained from the artice at bithorm

Stadiun in hato Rey * XM)

On December 11, 1968, the records of the Office

or Intelligence, Police

of Fuerto Rico, were reviewed by

an Agent of the FEI and no information was contained therein

other than that previously reported.

On January 16, 1969, SJ I-l advised that the subject

with whom he is intimately acausinted is still in Bolivia

as soon as he

Or. February

and pirates of fuerto Rico rootine tea

1969, Mr. Fellx

CO-ONESE

advised ar

Agent of the FBI that Veclara is Still an equal partner

the above enterprise and will return to work with him in

Vecians is currently employed

Interamerican Bank for Development in La Far, Bolivia.

Casila 673,

He

can be contacted at unidio the best

Is Paz, Bolivia.

stated that the subject,

of his knowledge,

has not been engaged in any anti-castro activities for

the past several years.

He is not engaged in any- political

activity at the current time.

During the period July-December, 1968g

various

confidential sources of the San Juan Office were contacted

with negative results regarding the activities

af

the subject.

-5--

CRATIAL

NW 54462 DooId: 32339807

Page 3

---

