# docid-32977090

## Page 1

Date

Page

:

07/14/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

NSC

145-10001-10270

151

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Cased:NIT 54214 Date:

10-04-2017

---

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

• ORIGINATOR : NSC

FROM

THOMAS A. PARROTT

TITLE : MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 08/16/62

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : MINUTES OF THE MEETING OF THE SPEICAL GROUP (AUGMENTED)

ON OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NÖ JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54214 DooId: 32977090

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MONGOOSE

16 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Minutes of Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on

Operation MONGOOSE, 16 August 1962

PRESENI: General Taylor, the Attorney General, Mr. Johnson,

Mr. Gilpatric, General Lemnitzer, Mr. McCone,

• Mr. Murrow, Mr. Bundy, General Lansdale

The outline plan now known as Alternate Course B,

submitted with General Langdale's memorandum of 14 August, was

accepted by the Group as a basis for subspquent detailed planning,

except for the fact that paragraph IV.E.,

Guantanamo for covert operations, was deleted.

so to the woe n

La Bundy, bad some question about paragraph IV.B., with

respect to submarine activity, and there was considerable discussion

as to the implications of paragraph IV.D., on sabotage.

The Group agreed, however, that paragraphs A., B., C.,

and D. under IV were accepted in principle, with the understanding

that major actions under these general concepts would be approved

by the Special Group (Augmented) .

In connection with the latter point, it was emphasized

that such approval should be obtained from the Group far enough in

advance so as to obviate extensive preparations and planning for

operations which might not actually receive policy approval.

2.

General Taylor then distributed a draft of new guidelines

for Operation MONGOOSE, Phase II, and a draft of a covering memo-

randum for the President.

The latter was approved by the Group as

With respect to the guidelines, paragraph 4 was amender

Stead "Bforts will be increased to insptre frictions and

would be added to cover the possibility of assisting Cuban exile

groups and other Latin Anerican governments in undertaking actions

3.

It was agreed that after the new guidelines and covering

remorandum are approved by higher authority, General Lansdale will

prepare detailed schedules of proposed operations for presentatio

to the Special Group (Augmented) •

Fatanatt

Thomas

A. Parrott

16

cc:

General Lansdale

lestroyed 419145-104

15!

HH 54214

DooId: 32977090

Page 2

---

