# docid-32292479

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10255

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-1005

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, BN

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/27/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/06/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292479

Page 1

413

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DAD56 Adv.44-3947

• !"

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

11/27/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEGAT, BONN

GUS ALEX, aka

ANTI-RACKETEER ING

(92-3182)

(92-5)

(P)

ReBucables 11/16 and 11/17/64.

By teletype dated 11/26/64, the Bundeskriminalamt

(BKA - West German Federal Criminal Police) furnished the

following information which had been obtained by the Police

Department of Munich, Germany:

SUZANNE FUEGER

arrived at Munich by air at 11:00AM

11/23/64, coming from Paris, France. She was met at Munich-

Riem Airport by her mother, ELROSA FUEGER, whose residence

address is House #1, Riederau, District of Landsberg/Lech, near

Munich.

The two women entered a beige colored Volkswagen

automobile with a sliding roof bearing license number 11-LJ-69

and proceeded from the airport to Hotel Koenigshof am Stachus

in Munich. There FUEGER and her mother engaged room 512 for

three days.

They remained in the hotel until 2:00 PM when

they left and walked along the adjoining streets. During

this time they entered the banking institution, Bayerische

Hypo-Bank located on the Stachus. They were in this bank for

only a short while and the reason for their call has as yet

been determined.

They returned to the hotel at 4:10PM.

The Volkswagen automobile, which is owned by FUEGER's mother,

was still in the hotel garage at the time the information was

dispatched.

4 - Bureau

(1-Liaison)

(1-Chicago:

92-373)

REC-

- 66

92-3172-1005

1 - Bern: 92-10 (Info)

(Sent direct)

1

- Paris: 92-4 (info) (Sent direct)

1 - Bonn

5 NOV 30 1964

GAV: eds

(7)

Approved:

_ Sent

M

Per.

21, Special Agent in Charge

7 ODEG3

196A

DocId: 32292479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. "Kernedy Assassination Records Cöllection Act Of 1992 744 USC 2107"Hote).

DATE

11-14-2017

0.80 o

BONN 92-5

FUEGER was dressed in a dark mink cap and dark

brown fur coat, probably mink, and during the time under

observation continuously wore

dark sun glasses. She was

noted to have fair hair which might be described as straw-

colored worn in a straight bob.

She was about 5'6$ tall

and made an elegant appearance.

Based on observation the

available photograph of FUEGER originally furnished by this office

to the police was described as being a good resemblance.

Other than above FUEGER has been noted to have made

contacts.

-2-

92-3182-1005

DocId: 32292479

Page 3

---

