# docid-32288250

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10026

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1712

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/29/1965

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, CONTACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32288250

Page 1

192

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-5.fRgy. 12-14-64)

Tolson.

Belmont

Mohi —

De Loach

«Casper -

DECODEDICOPY

• CABLEGRAM

XXX RADIO

J AIRGRAM

R-76

DEFERRED 6-29-65

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

291531

TELETYPE

Rose

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

12:19 PM

4

I later,

CG 6792-PC ADVISER JUNE 29 INSTANT SAMS

ATTAGLI

CURRENTLY HANDLING AFFAIRS OF GIANCANA DURING LATTER'S

CONFINEMENT. AND HAS ASSUMED ROLE OF TOP LEADER HERE. U

INFORMANT ADVISED THIS DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO

BATTAGLIA HAS ANGERED JACK

CERONE WHO FEELS HE SHOULD BE ILLÍ

TOP MAN IN GIANCANA'S ABSENCE. INFORMANT ADVISED CERONE

: FEELS HE-HAS BACKING FORMER TOP LEADERS ANTHONY ACCARDO

ANDA PAUL

DE LUCIA AND MAY TRY POWER PLAY. U

THIS INFO MAY EXPLAIN PURPOSE OF MEETING OF ALEX,

PIERCE,

DE LUCIA AND CERONE AT ROOKERY RESTAURANT JUNE 28

LAST.

CERONE AND DE LUCIA MAY BE ATTEMPTING TO LINE UP

SUPPORT OF MEMBERS OF HUMPHREYS GROUP THIS REGARD. THIS

SITUATION BEING CLOSELY FOLLOWED. U

109

RECEIVED: 1:12 PM RJP

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

JERSINIS UNCLASSIE!

DATE 07/84

REC-7!

92-31721712

HO JUL 2

1965

firE INFDEMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN ISUNCLASSIFIED;

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

paraphrased entain in the uhove message is to be disseminated outside the Buel, it is suelested that it be suitably

protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32288250 Page 2

---

