# docid-32338994

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10412

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

Hasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/23/1949

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE ARTS, SCIENCES AND

PROFESSIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338994

Page 1

---

## Page 2

copy:ahs

OFFICE WHO RANDU:

UNITED STATES COVERLET

10 : Director, FBL

FROM : SAC, New York

SUBJECI: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE AHIS, SCIS CES HID PROFESSIONS;

(Bureau File 100-356137)

DATE: HOverber 23, 1949.

On Novenber 16, 1941, Confidertial Informant ND 418 attended a

meetirE

of approximately 150 persons at the Hotel Sutton in New York City

8:30 Pi or that date.

The meting was sporsored by ASP.

accordine to tiD 41o, there were three speakers and the theme of

their speeches corcered the prosecution of the "Hollywood lom and the

opposition was iaker up. This prosecution is a direct attack against all

creer: actors sid writers who were not afraid to speak the truth. JohN

oTherison nas the principal speaker and he said there is collaboratio

in Hollywood that never existed before. He said that Hall Street is not

responsible for the production of pictures which comply with their purpose

of "blood ard destruction* He said that progressive pictures are rarely

made but when they are the large chair theatres refuse to accept them.

Accordire to Male, WirSoN made the observition that one writer

in loscow has chorged that ir. trerica, the movie indistry is not making a

single picture which speaks oi peace.

Larson then said that the charge of

this hussian writer is true and noted that in une USSt there is a picuure

beire snom throughout the lalid, which is an appal for peace. He concluded

that while the ussi wants peace, tall Street and the Americar monopolists

wart war.

He appealed for the orgarization of a strong progressive movement

in ASP which will always be willing to help and cooperate with any other

proaressive organization.

The foregoing is tung furnished for your irfornation.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE 6-28:95 BY 5668 542nde

(JFR)

ORIGINAL COPY FILED

CO Los Argeles

NY

100-80918 (d. H. LA"SO!)

100-50370 (COLPIS)

62-9059

(PE C)

JAC: VEL

100-93553

100-3707601

161. 24474

OT KFCORDED

1 DEC 8 1949

6รท DE07

HH 54460 DocId:32338994 Page 2

NR-159

Treat As OrIGinAl

---

