# docid-32308633

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10491

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-597

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/17/1962

' PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

SGI, TRA, US EMBASSY, PA, TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

• DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32308633 Page 1

482

---

## Page 2

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

• OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy

Paris

8, France

SS REV

SIDE FOR

CIASSTFICATION

AL

Date:

January 17, 1962

013, 83 93

To:

Dul From:

Subject:

Director, FBI

Legat, Paris

(92-14) (RUC)

C4.

•

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA.

aka

CLASCIPIOD BY.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

X758

Z20AT GROM GDS. C

DATE OF DECISIE IL

Sire 0U2

Re Paris cable 12/28/61 and Madrid letter to

Bureau 1/9/62. (U)

9/9/181

A check with the Telephone Unit, U. S. Embassy,

Paris, of long distance telephone calls made from the

SL

S. Embassy, Paris, to the U. S. Embassy, Madrid, on

12/22/61 failed to disclose any telephonic

communicatio

from any of the principal U. S.Embassy offices

at Paris

including the Charge d'Affaires!

office.)

In respect to Legat Madrid's question as to

whether Assistant Legat KEENAN recalls if the telephone

number of the direct line in the Madrid Office, 2 26 61

99

AND FI

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

was furnished tol

Tof the Alien Brigade of the

Directorate General of Security (DGS) during the course of

'his investigation of the subject in November 1961, KEENAN

has endeavored to mentally fix the transactions which took

place in instant case during the period of his assignment at

Madrid. It is his opinion that he did furnish the Alien

Brigade of the DGS the direct telephone number to the Madrid

Office, in addition to the listed number and extension.

The

decision to do so was predicated upon the belief that in

view. of the importance the Bureau attached to instant matter,

it was deemed advisable to do so in order to preclude any

possible telephonic delay or switchboard error that might be

encountered on the week end of 11/25/61 by personnel of the

DGS in the event it was found necessary

to contact

the Madrid

Office.

CONDECIASSIFIED BY TeR

ON 2/12/85

4 - Bureau

REC- 40

1 • Liaison sectio

1- Chicago action e-la ron

92-3171-597

1 - Madrid (92-7)^(sentliairect)phr

Animalt

- Paris

LPK: mas

(6)

+ 35353061-29 che

STAR

020 JAN 23 1962

VEE

I0 1

LBI

LONEIDENTIAL

OTHER

NW 45792 DocId: 32308633

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Paris 92-14

COMFIDENTAL

Assistant Legat KEENAN vaguely recollects receiving

a telephone call at the Office of the Legat Madrid from

Jon Saturday, 11/25/61, in captioned matter.

Inasmuch

as KEENAN cannot recall furnishing the above telephone number

to any other sources of the Madrid Office during instant

investigation, he is of the opinion that the telephone call

of 12/22/61 arabably emanated either directly or intifiectly

It is pointed out that

avorable

impression, furnished detailed information regarding the

subject's activities during the period of hisstay in Madrid

in late November 1961, and gave every indication of being

a rollable, professional and capablo spanish officer NeW

OTHER 4

TIAL!

-2-

92-311592

NW 45792 DocId: 32308633 Page 3

---

