# docid-32338896

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10314

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-370750-170

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LADD

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/19/1950

1

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338896

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

STANPARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: THE DIRECTOR

DATE: April 19, 1950

FROM : D. M. LADD

SUBJECT:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON,

INTERNAT SECURITY -

WAS a g

113/87506 spatc

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

PURPOSE:

DATE 4-0

186 BY 91455k6

(JFK

by captioned subject before a

¡'Conference Organizing Committeel of a "conference to strengthen American-

To advise you of statements mield SiD/nde 6-26-95

Soviet relations" held at Los Angeles on February 5, 1950.

Tolson:

Ledd

clegE_

Glavin

NIcho

Mohr_

Tele. Room

Nease-

Gandy_

BACKGROUND:

As you know John Howard Lawson has been a long-time leader of

Communist activities in the Hollywood area.

He is one of the "Hollywood

Ten" and has been convicted for contempt of Congress because of his refusal

to testify before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in 1947.

His case has been under appeal to the Supreme Court, however, the Supreme

Court, on April 10, 1950, refused to review the case. He is considered a

key figure in the Los Angeles Division and our investigation of him continues.

'Angeles has advised that on Febriary 5, 1950, a "Conference

Organizing Committee" held a "call to a conference to-strengthen American-

Soviet relations" at Parkview Manor in Los Angeles, on February 5, 1950.

Ihis-meeting has been reported as having resulted in the formation of

the/ "Southern California Council of American-Soviet Friendship."

IA-3287, a paid and reliable informant, advised that subject.

spoke at this conference. Among the statements made by Lawson were the

following: He said that American Imperialism started in 1918 and that

William C. Bullitt was in that yeer sent to Russia.

He stated that it

was worthybile for everyone to read United States Diplomatic Correspondence

of 1918 entitled "Russia" wherein one could find such correspondence as

"Russia is in the hands of a few men -nostly Jews," signed Winston Churchill'

In the same correspondence Hoover wrote to Wilson in 1919, "The time has

arrived for us to analyze Bolshevisn, being formulated by the Jews."

said the forces of evil, around j. Edgar Hoover brought the Palmer Raids and

terror reimed across the land.

He said that, the die which was cast has not

chanced very much as: there are stillitwo men reiging terror across

the land

and both names are Hoöver - Herbert Hoover and J. Hagar Hoover, doing

hatchet jobs on people's rights.

"in view of Lawson'g

This was included! in APlo neIvestigative report

on Lawson submitted by Los Angeles.

Attached herewith is

angeles pointing out that such inforatio

shouldibe submitted to the bureau

promptly by more expeditious means.

100-24499

Attachment

IGD mjt: nce: vab

VIAY A

1950

HH

54460

DooId: 32338896

Page 2

---

