# docid-32295525

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10301

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-494

Released under the John

48sa881nation Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased:WH 45839 Date:

41-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM:

MILLER, HERBERT J. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/09/1963

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

19.1

NW 45839

25

DocId: 32295525

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC, San Francisco

10-11-63

194

: Director, FBI

CLA COSA NOSTRA

Attashed letter dated October 9, 1963, received

from the Criminal Division of the Department 15

self-

explanatory.

assistance.

This interview should be expedited and the results

furnished to the Bureau in a lettorhead nemorandun suitable

for dissemination.

Two copies of Departmental request being furnished

Kansas City for its iaformation.

Enc. (2)

2 - Kansas City - Enc. (2)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

informant to be interviewed concerning information that he possesses

which will be of assistance to them.

This is another Departmental

request wherein tha they request this former informant be interviewed

for the purpose of determining if the Italian Organization

Kansas City can be connected with the La Cosa Nostra or wather

informant can furnish information similar to the type being

furnished by Joseph Valacht.

1 - Mr. T. J. Emery

ABF : mjs

(7) 10

To 0CT

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45839 DocId: 32295525

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES GOVERY

ENT

Memorandum

p-PARTMENT OF JUSTICE

October 9, 1963

TO

: Director

Federal

Bureau of Investigation

DATE:

HJM: JJF: ie1

123-66

FRO

Terbert J. MillèI, JI., Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division

SUBJECT: Kansas City, Missouri

As you know, Joseph crapisi, formerly of

Kansas City, Missouri was

at one time active as

an informant

concerning matters in the criminal

intelligence field.

also testified before

the

grand jury in the

concerning

JEK Law 10(a)2

Crapisi has furnished information concerning

the structure of the Italian organization in Kansas

City but has not in the past placed it in the

framework of the broader organization; Cosa Nostra,

and has not employed terminology similar to that

used by

Joseph Valachi.

It is requested that

Crapisi be interviewed

again, specifically with

regard

to the type of information furnished by

Joseph Valachi.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED 351)

REVIEWED BY PROJA TARN FORCE

ON

7/92 da

RELEADE IN FULL

MELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DE

PER DoF

SP

ISPE

1001:06.30

9'5F;splgy

+2-054-1943900

10 OCT 15 1963

tain

HH 45839 DooId: 32295525 Page 3

---

