# docid-32205477

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2016

AGENCY :

NARA

RECORD NUMBER :

176-10010-10075

RECORD SERIES :

NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOS

FROM:

TO :

SCOTT, P.H.

TITLE: LUNCHEON...

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/23/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS : NSF:CO:Cuba, General, 7/63:Box 39

v9.1

HH 49061 DocId:32205477 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

Noo 18

1055/63

& BRITISH EMBASSY

HAVANA

TuLA 180 4,963

My Lord,

1o alroady rovorted by tolegran noa 515 of tho 11th

of July Dro fidel Castro Gnontenerly elves hourg over

Tuncheon in tho Brit1sh Embagsy Residenco on the 10th or

Julyo Hy was accompanied by the Foraten Minlator Pro Roa,

end by Comandant Vallojo, ho lo a constant companton in

his jo1nt capacitico of privato scoratary, medical adviger

and personal irlando Very foy security precaut tong vere

takon both Dro Roa and Di Castrone tho arrived separate

ly. neranccomanted.by anoxtra. car/with thrce or lour

men but only ong guard was mosted outside.

the house.

The

othot guadta varo tho heado of the threo othen Oonnonvenith

a1ostong in ilovana, the canadion Ambessador and tho Chargéd

d'Alfaires of India and Ghanab

The diplonatic atapr of

this Enbasay vore alag sresont.

2.1 nov have the honou to enolose a punnary, rocord of

the convorsation. or nore proporlyn monologueny

Dr. Castro

listoned politoly to any points, made to hin but since he.

replied to cachwith an unintorrupted cionof holf an hour

on pod ary do vergation in the ordinary doneg yes

Imposo blo Cho 10 tra tedini ug nich D- chotto usoe

In television Intorviave whon hio intervlovera ore confined

to two or three dentoncea In tha courso of a progremmo tor

thrco or Count holros e At the and of thig marathon lungh,

Di chatro vai quin do onoratic and coung lour agiover

although

The Rt. Mon, Tho Earlikos Homo iK. Xoo

Foreigh Office.

CONFIDENTIAT

HH 49061

8/04

3/ 1

---

## Page 3

DHINKLUKAILINU

LUIL

ELECTROSTATIC COPY M

CONSIDENTIAL.

al though ha had eaten and drunk beartily and It ung a hot and

oppressive afternoon

it was his audienco tho wore exhaus

tedi

3 Dr. Contro wasted 11 tle timo on octel smalltalk,

although on ouch aubjecto as dosp and fiphins, he diaplayed

tha same luency and ealthlot ideas as woll as tha gome

vorboritynas he doen ovor the more conlous mattero.

of his diocourse was a reasonod and datalled expose of the

now attitude land sollay.to.which.he.has.gradually beon moving

during the last low months whichegent to have boon console

datod during his viat to the Soviot Union and which found

Ito moet comploto public oxbosition go for inchis tolevialon

Intorvion of tho lithuof Junes (Toleston. now 27 Saylng.or

tho Gth of June.

This starts from the premino that tho

Cuban Revolution, 1a non docure internally and con roly

extornally on tho conploto oupport of the Soviat Unton.

thoroforg can and should dovoto itsole to intornal acononic

development sat the same time reduoing the internattonal

tomparature by holding oution of for con nozo ation with the

Unitod Statemand Playing down the active promotion of

revolution throughout latin

Anorica p

Much of Dr. Castrole

converoation on thige pointo repeated what ho has a ready

ca1a in hia public

poechod, although ho used r thor nore

unguarded Language

nd revealed a tan incidental lacte natch

were nev torus.

this theme, he was cale rational and

porsussive and made

mary tolling pointo about conditiong tr

Letin Anor la and

of cats of the United States poltcy

towarde

CONDT DENITAT

HH 49061

DocId: 32205477 Page

---

## Page 4

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONFIDENT TAL.

towords. Cuba. He lost a kip oscoality only in hta

uncriticalradulation.off tha Soviot. Union expressed.in

terne

anost of relig.ous.aven-toros. oo.carricd away by thig that

he continued for nother forty ninutor or don oven atter the

Ambassador had sought to brine, the oroceed int to an ond at

5 p.no by oxpresoing hia thanks for Dro Castro O vialtrand.

the detailed exposition of hig vlava.

40

Thore veron hovever, seyera) not pointo of some interent.

Ho mado oxplait hia dentro for betto colation with tho

Wept anaithlthe Unstad.Kingdond.narticular.phich has boon

1mpl101t In theisttitude of the Cuban Govornment, towards us

for gone monthso although not pruvlously expressed in go mary

Mordan

He sold that he ron rendy. to nogotiate componention

for expropriated Britishsproporty and that he wao anx tous to

soo increasod tradelaith us.

On colationg with tho United

Statos, he expropped a groator Tongth and in pore dotaly

thán ha hao dong pub loly, the reasong why ho bal favor phote

policy to bosself-acleating and the scounas:

for hia, confidence

that home corg of co-axletence 1l1 ovontuat

achieved"

even i? it takes yoor.

Ho admitted, the poos 511trol peodoril, chance o

leastigone countriad of Latin Angeloren idea

shich 18

relocted with sarcasm ao tocontlyan thel 15th or January this

(Pologran to Soving on the lith o denuay e

ans Lya in on scataL and ocononio conditone n Tatia Agorica

a baeodo in apito or a number of leading quent lono, he

no careful to avotd any prat that. Cuba intended to pley on

CONFIDENT LAT

49061

DocId: 32205177 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONF I DEN LAL

I active part in the promot on or revolution in lat to Amos ica

On Intornal pattoro, ho oxplained or Tonsth a na, polley of

concentrating on tho devolo nont of tha auger industry.and

devoting the major par trot

new invost mont to to It Dro

Castro meant what he

said thia is on important change from

tho policy decribed by Sro Guevara Liste December nhen no

said that it was tho intontion of the Cova nagat to reduce, the

rolativa Importance of the ougar induatsy in the aconomy net

by curtailing it but by doveloping industry androthos

brancheo of agricultura at a creator ratch (ir, Clubels

lettor 1162/63 of the 23th of Decambar to Mr Brovin.)

Go On military quentlong, De. Castro thor not unnaturally

rather los enccificathan ontothers ibut

euch 80, nc, made

one or two planelcant romarko which ore porhape indiscretiono,

By thịa ding hoh d drunk Pour or Elve Blauseg of Cointroau

after lunche The toloyaton appearanod on the 10to?

Novembor Last ycar, Do. Castro had roycaled that tho Soviet

Unton had concollad a dobt for orna bumked to Cuba but he

excluded fron thio the atratos a nine" lorin other worde,

tha missilca) which remained in soviet a hership tolaaren

no: 517.0l tho 2nd of November In his pneech of the 2nd

for January, holad announced that song surface-to-aar

and

coastl misalleoword, boing hinded over to the Cuban army for

Training At the jungh party ho ontd that and elegraft

sloshico, land-to-doa migot les ond land mootico. (presumably

PRocs) wore noven Cuban ownershiband that this nodern

had recontiy beon dol vorod t Lo- poso1b1o,

I theretoro, that to doo color laz not only to a chance in tho

status

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 19061

DocId: 32205477 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ELECTROSTATIC COPY

CONFI DEN SFAL

status orthe extatias ato la aitco butto a handover or

at leont parto the aument of tino tour Soulot arnou od

Broupsa 419o dur ne tho Ambangado a Paro oli call on

the 26th of Jung, uro Castro had nold that ney aqui pront

and nethods, mado hin cont tacatethit ha could trustrate

attempts at imiltration by atp or occh

Ho nederthl's

potat again at the lunch but wont fur thor and aid that

mcanures. had.now.boch devoloped. to.obtain informtion.of

troop movenento and preparations thich would giva verning

lof any mova towarda a mior attack, on Cuba,

One cantonly

auppose that chis do an alluston to coptonago initho United

Statco of porhope to radlo trel lo intorcontion cornted out

in Cubesno tha casos sprecumably ortontzodby tha

Rugolans.

70 4

This lunch, although unthinkable ovch a month agone

noi only ond of a anclog of Olforto by Dra Castro-to

cultivato the ventren alastong in levano

unti recontly,

contict with hin was continod, to chanco oncountors and his

occasionalntcrventton.tnapractical.mattcra.nsith.tho

Suleo and canaiin Ambascadorg oves tho arrongenontestor

tlo exchanie omorican nedical cupoltoa tor tho Playo

Gironi prisonore

somathinot cinou procodentivan act in

March-whentho secolod farowell collo fron the rettring

Norwegtan Anbasuedor ond toreol aninioter

(Sir Horbort

Marchantgo Lottar 1011/63 of tho 25th 09 March contri stator.)

Sinco hig trat

ron the soutot union at the beginning or

Jund, honover

Castro hes beon apoiduouo nehta

ottentiono to

the footorn n lastong.

Ha rocolved str

Herbert Marchars Ros a Percoll call, on the 26th, of June

CONLT DENTTAL

lavand

HH 49061

DocId: 32205477

Page 6

---

## Page 7

BLECTROSTATIC COPY

CONFIDENT I AD

(Havana toleran no, 169) pant, the at tornoon apa lunch

party given by tha Notha lando Ambagsado, onetho 28th o?

Jung bond three houre ato recaption on the 30th of. June

1n the Papal Nuncintura, to calebrate the coronation. of

the new Pope, another two hours on a social

call on the

Canadian Ambassador nihis Residonce on the 3rd of, Julyo

and ago into hourg at the french National Part on the 15th

of Julyon

(Sir Horbert Marchantlo tolegran no. 484 of the

Ist of July and lettor 1011/63 of the 3rd of culy to tro

Slater

Social contact with Dr Castro is thorofore

Bocoming for us somothing of a common lace inatond of on

extreme rarity.

Wot may naturally have

reservetiong

about

how for we

23%.

can bake Dr. Captro Hircmarks at tholn laco value.

tom the oxtont to which ho has cone in culuiyat ins hostern

plosions, thore 19 little roon for doubt, thit he senuinely

wanto betton colations with ua

alcanay boreroody to payse

prico cos thie in the form of the peyment of compenget ofo

11. not morgo

Thoro are marrow limits on tha extent to whion

wo, can tako advantago of his overtarea co long ac Andrican

pol lay coming ag tip at presenti

It may also be true

that Dra Cactro'o only motivo lo to undermine the American

attompte to aolato Cuba But bince his campaign of erlendly

overtures to the lastorn misstons tollowed hia uiatt.to the

Sovict Union, it goons escasonable to supporo that to forms.

part of anpolicy discussed and agrecd or even pronated by

the Rus giana

Thiends a you which the State Dapartment,

CONFIDENTIAL

HH

49061

DocId: 32205477

Page

---

## Page 8

ELECTROSTATIC COPY RISHA.

CONF EDENALAL

scen to shaco (Hashington tolegren no. 1998 of tho 29th

Vor Juno to the Foreign of 1co)

It may therefore torm

party of ta muchs

wider cover towardo angeneral dotontamith

tha Meet te it la rebuffedo the consequonces, nay

equally be vory much widor than tha effecta on cubo alona:

38

Ton copying this despatch to Her Nojoaty e

Ropresontativos at all Latin American posts. Mashineton,

Moncow the Unitod Kingdom Dalegation to NATO Pariss to

the Governor of the Bahamas and to the British llen

Connisoloncro at Kingston and Port of Spain

I have the honour to ba,

with the highcot roovect,

My Lord,

Your Lordphip a obodiont, Sorvanto

A Po Wa Scotte

HM. Charcó d' Affaires a.1

CON IDENT TAI

HH

49061

DocId: 32205477

Page 8

---

