# docid-32305835

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10465

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2ND NR 2319

Document Information

‹ ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

• TO: SAC, NK

TITLE :

DATE :

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/30/1968

2

LCN, TOP ECHELON PROGRAM, IDENT, PROSECUTE,

MEMBERSHIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305835

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Aet Of 1992(14 USe

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Newark (1373700)

April 30, 1968

Director, FBI (66-2542-11-31)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

TOP ECASION

CAIMINAL

INFORMANT PROGRAM;

KA COSA NOSTRA_- ANTI-RACKETEERING

It has been previously pointed out that one of our

primary

goals in the Criminal Intelligence Program is the full

identification and subsequent prosecution of the membership of

La Cosa Nostra (LCN),

the dominant group in organized crime

in this country, With an ever-increasing public avareness ot

the significance of IC on a national basis and in consideration

of the Bureau®s vast responsibilities in the field of organized

crime, it is necesary that complote intelligence be developed

regarding ECh.

A review of progress reported in the identitication

of ICH members reveals that a substantial number have been

identifled. Your office has reported that at the present time

118 members of ICN reside in your territory.

As you know,

New Jersey is a major stronghold of LCN operations.

Therefore,

your office has boavy responsibilities in the organized crime

field.

There currently exists an urgent need for identification

of additional ICH members in your territory.

Although as noted

you have made progress in this are, much more remains to be

accomplished.

Your office has developed one menber-intormant an

LCH, NK 2428-C-TE.

Every effort must be made to utilize his

full potential to the Bureau's advantage including the identi

fication of additional ICH members.

Member -informants are

the only sources, currently available to can provide accurate

and authentic data regarding LCN nenbership.

The TECID In the Newark Division must be directed

with a view towards further penetration of Lch.

You should

maintain a continuous and well-planned program to accomplish

this end. The importance of developing additional menber

Informants cannot be overemphasized.

- 92-6054 (LCN) = AR)

SET: DUPLICATE YELLOW

92-6054-

NOT RECORDED

203 MAY 1 1968

F199

67 MAY R - 1988

DocId: 32305835

Page 2

Hoter.

TINAL FILED

---

