# docid-32307990

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10348

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

"TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/05/1967

3

LCN, MEMBERS, CONFERENCE, BONANNO FAMILY,

BONANNO, WILLIAM, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32307990 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

VIA TELETYPE

SEP5 1967

ENCIPHERED

Mr. Delone

Mohe

Bishoe

80% Gallenn

10335

AM URGENT 9/5/67 SHR

TO DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM MIAMI 92-853

/P/

NT Slyan

Me. Troter

Mis Exoties

MON CHOCO

ENCODED

2 P

9

- 1503

6

A COSA NOSTRA. AR - CONSPIRACYERIN

• 008 NEW YOR

MM TWELVE THIRTYONE C - TE ADVISED FOUR LAST RETURNED FROM NEW

ANNE CITY SEPTENDER TWO LAST AND REPORTED ON FOUR-DAY CONCESS

CONFERENCE ATTENDED BY INFORMANT IN LONG ISLAND. APPROXIMATELY

THIRTEEN LEADERS OF THE BONANNO AND GAMBINO FAMILIES IN AITENDANCE.

SUBJECT MATTER RELATED TO BONANNO SITUATION. LCN MEMBERS IN ATTENDANCE

WHO HAD NOT YET DECIDED AS TO LOYALTY TO BONANNO WERE TOLD TO GIVE

THE MATTER SERIOUS CONSIDERATION AS BONANNO IS DEFINITELY OUT OF THE

SITUATION AND IS A " DEAD MAN." THIS ALSO APPLIES TO WILLIAM BONANNO.

INFORMANT POINTED OUT THAT WILLIAM BONANNO WAS VICTIM OF ATTEMPTED

HIT RECENTLY. AMONG OTHER ATTENDEES AT CONFERENCE WERE MIKE SABELLA,

PAUL VARIO, CARMINE GRIBBS (TRAMUNTI), JOHN ANGELO. BONANNO

FAMILY TO EITHER BE MERGED WITH CARLO GAMBINO OR FAMILY WILL BE TAKEN

END PAGE ONE

REC-64

2.605

/-1112

EX

62 SEP 19

16 SEP 11 196/

RELAXED 1U

Ixero

DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

DocId: 32307990

Page 2

---

