# docid-32175045

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10181-10141

RECORD_ SERIES: SF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-58-469

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-15-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MCMULLEN. RICHARD J.

TO: SAC. SF

TITLE:

DATE:

04/11/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

JFK, ADVICE, STEIFER, ROBERT EARL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/21/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NH 53932 DocId: 32175045

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10

401004

UNITEE STATES

GU VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (TERSE)

DATE:

4/11/67

FROM

SA RICHARD J. MC MULLEN

SUBJECT:

ROBERT EARL STETFER

INFORMATION CONCERNING

+ SECUE:

MATERI

Former SF 2802-s furnished the following information

on March 28, 1967:

Captioned resides 33875 llth Street, Union CIty,

California, unemployed, former employment - male nurse,

former residence - 711 Pardee Court, Hayward, California.

Arrested by Hayward PD in December, 1966.

Presently on

Welfare and residing at the

above-address with SALLY FLEMING.

States

he 1s or has been an epileptic. Reportedly has

served

time at Terminal Island.

on 3/23/67, Subject advised as follows:

Subject has read many books on the assassination

of President KENNEDY and he would like for this source, who

is a private investigator, to go to an office such as Mark

Lane and advise that he, this source, knows an individual who

viewed the assassination of the president and also viewed those

who committed

the assassination.

STEIFER stated that he knows

nothing about the assassination other than that what he has

read, however, he

believes that he has read sufficient

material to compose a fiction type story regarding the

assassination.

STEIFER then wants this source to somebody

such as Mark Lane and if Lane accepts it STEIFER will then

commence telling his story through this source.

STEIFER

is never to be known to the writer and will never be

in a position to testly regarding his story.

STEIFER is of the opinion that so many books

have been

written regarding the assassination that any

story could no doubt make thousands of dollars for the

three of them.

No see int

134-3081 (Former SF 2802-S)

RJM/s1c

•RIALIES

Sup

Wheel

~ 1 APR A 1 1067

FBI SAN FRANCISCO

89-58-46

1TH

53932 DooId:32175045 Page 2

---

