# docid-32315862

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10344-10023

RECORD SERIES : MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-815-29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE : 02/15/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

JACK CERONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

Doetd: 32315862

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

Hotel,

PATE IN

the John. F. Kennedy Assassination. Records Collection Act lao dada 4SC2197

1255

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

:B;I

Date:

2/15/62

CODE

(Type in'plain text or code)

* URGENT

(Prio

11g)

TO: VE

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, CHICAGO

FROMAN*

SAC, MIAMI: (92-815)

PROPOSED MEETING OF HOODLUMS, MIAMI, FLANS FEBRUARY SIXTY

TWO, AR.

MM SEVEN NINE FOUR DASH CASTERISK ADVISED THE

FOLLOWING IDENTIFICATIONS- THUS FAR. HAVE BEEN MADE CONCERNING

GROUP OF INDIVIDUALS PLANNING TO KILL: FRANK ESPOSITO: JACK

CERONE ,..WHO WAS GIVEN CONTRACT BY GLANCANA; DAVE YARAS, MIAMI

HOODLUM, FORMERLY OF CHICAGO; FRANK QUOTE SKIPPY ENQUOTE

CERONE, COUS IN OF JACK CERONE; 7

AMES QUOTE TURK UNQUOTE TORELLO

OF CHICAGO, MEMBER OF SO CALLED NORTH AVENUE STEAR HOUSE CANG

CHICACO, WELL KNOWN CHICAGO THIEF AND HOODLUM; PETE PAREN LNU

PAREN, WHO HAS BEEN IN CONVERSATION WITH CC SIX FOUR FICHT SIX

DASH C ASTERISK IN THE PAST AND IS BELIEVED TO BE PRIMARILY

RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING OUT OF. CANGLAND SLAYINGS UNDER CON-

TRACT. HEIS THE INDIVIDUAL WHO APPEARED BEFORE GIANCANA

REGENTLY. AND COLLECTED SEVERAL THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR JOBS DONE

92-81551

RRH: amc dem

stied

(1)

SM

O Khun

9281522

Seeinine

Approved:

///Special: Adentin Chat

Sent

11/5 8AM

DocId: 32315862

Pagé

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 T

Hotels (ReDATES-5F1-14-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI.

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

PAST SEVERAL

MONTHS. MENTIONED AT THE TIME HE UTILIZED

JOHN QUOTE

THE BUG UNQUOTE SCHIVARELLI IN SOME OF HIS JOBS.

NOW BELIEVED POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT PETE PAREN INU PAREN

• MAY BE

AMERICO QUOTE.

BETE UNQUOTE

PIETO,! LEADER OF THE

NORTH AVENUE STEAK HOUSE GANG, WHO NOW OPERATES THE GUEST

HOUSE LOUNGE, NEAR FRANKLIN PARK, ILLINOIS. CHICAGO ATTEMPT

TO ASCERTAIN PRESENT WHEREABOUTS OF DIPIETO. SUGGEST CON-

TACT

WITH CG SIX!FOUR FIVE SEVEN DASH PC, WHO IS USUALLY IN

CONTACI WITH ROCKY INFELICE) AI THE GUEST HOUSE. MM SEVEN

NINE FOUR DASH C IDENTIFIED THE VOICE OF ANTHONY ACCARDO IN

CONIACT WITH JACK CERONE, BRIEFLY. NOTHING OF SIGNIFICANCE

NOTED. THIS SOURCE HAS ESTABLISHED WITHOUT QUALIFICATION

THAT THE GROUP IN VICINITY OF THIS SOURCE HAVE BEEN INVOLVED

IN NUMEROUS OPERATIONS OF THIS TYPE OVER THE YEARS, INVOLVING

CANG KILLINGS. THEY DISCUSSED THE FACT THAI THEY UILIZE

- 2-

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

-

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32315862 Page 3

---

