# docid-32170247

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10171-10066

RECORD_SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-316

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

THOMPSON, RICHARD C.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 12/05/1963

PAGES: 18

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL -

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 105-82555-663

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/07/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DooId: 32170247

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PD-288 (ReT Aj-101

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION •

REPORTINO OFFICE

MILWAUKEE

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

IBE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

DATE

12/5/63

INVESTIOATIVE PERIOD

12/2 - 4/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA RICHARD C. THOMPSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - R

TYPED B

Imp

REFERENCES

Milwaukee tel to Bureau and Dallas 12/3/63.

New Orleans tel to Bureau, Dallas, Milwaukee and San Antonio 12/3/4

Dallas tel to Milwaukee 12/3/63.

Milwaukee tel to Bureau, Dallas and New Orleans 12/4/63.

Milwaukee tel to Bureau and Dallas 12/4/63.

Milwaukee airtel to Dallas 12/4/63.

- P - ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

LEADS DATE 4/26/93 BY2863 RUDGAT

JFK

MILWAUKEE DIVISION

At Milwaukee, WisoO0s1n:

Will continue to handle all future investigation Immediately,

submitting results by teletype and following with investigative

report within three days.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGI

COPIES MADEI

10 - Bureau (62-109060) (AM, RM)

- Dallas (89-43) (AM)

2 - Milwaukee (62-1178)

2 leste

17/16/63 unl

IBBEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REVOR

ABONCY....

REQUEST RICO.

DATE FWD, .0...

нож пно. ...

8Y a

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BILOM

100

10x6/+316

SEARCHED A NEEDED.

DEC 9 - 1963

EBL- DALLAS

pch

NOTATIONS

Opges 4,8,10, 19415

- A =

COVER PACE.

ND. 00482N98N9 PRINTING APICE

18-0 98834-1

NH 54463 DocId: 32170247 Page 2

---

## Page 3

*;

......

MI 62-1178

INFORMANTS

The following additional informants were contacted in this

matter as

3 Indicated below:

MI 613-C on 11/29/63 by SA RICHARD C. THOMPSON;

1/2/533 5A A V. MAN IS HIGGINS;

ADMINISTRATIVE

Relative to the interviews of Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD V. LE CLAIR

set out in details of report, a lead was set out for

• Dallas

in Milwaukee tel to Bureau and Dallas dated 12/3/63 to identify

the funeral home employee and investigate circumstances.

Relative to the interview of MARGARET BUDREAU as set out in

details of this report, Dallas and the Bureau were advised

by teletype dated 12/4/63 and Dallas was given additional

detailed information by airtel the same date and was requested

to consider the information in

the light of facts known

concerning subject's whereabouts in July, 1963.

Concerning the interviews of NORMAN FREDERIKSEN and his wife,

ELKE FREDERIKSEN as requested by reference Dallas teletype

to Milwaukee 12/3/63, the results of which are set out in

FD-302's in this report, It may be noted that NORMAN FREDERIKSEN

said that he couldn't recall VOLKMAR SCHMIDT as being present

at the EVERETT GLOVER party in February, 1963 at which OSWALD

spoke.

NORMAN FREDERIKSEN also stated

that he became suspicious

Of OSWALD principally because he managed to get his Russian

born wife out of Russia and he also recalls that a friend of

his said that OSWALD, upon his return from Russia to the

United States, wouldn't take a Job unless 1t was in a photo-

graphic lab.

When asked the source of this he said he felt

this friend might possibly have been IbYA MAMANDOR, an employes

of the Socony Company of Dallas, who apparently is Russian borr

but now a citizen of the United

States. He further stated

that ILYA MAMANDOR wouldn't have come to the GLOVER party

1f he had been

invited because ILYA wouldn't go to any place

-B =

COVER PAGE

1N 54463 D0010:32170247 Page 3

---

