# docid-32194866

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10262-10359

RECORD_SERIES: CI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-2758-64

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

IITLE:

SAC. CG

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 11/28/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-110

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

05/16/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

• 02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DooId: 32194866

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTA

5668 S0/GC

731/95-J5C

3-10-93

HW

53025

ALL INFOSGATION CONTAINED

НЕРОУ І

CLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WIENE SHOWN

OTHElWISE

RE: JFK

URGENT, 11-2863 7051 AM LUC

(5668520/GCL Z/26/96-JFK)

TO DIRECTOR, AND SAGS, CINCINNATI, DALLAS AND LOS ANGELES

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 144-6451 2 PAGES

JACK LA RUBY, AKA. LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKAS DASH VICTIMO,

CIVIL RIGHTS®

RE DALLAS TEL AND CHICAGO TEL ELEVEN TWENTYSEVEN LAST.

RE ALLEGED COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES

RE UNSUB POSSIBLY JACK RUBENSTEIN, WHO ALLEGEDLY TRAVELLED

TO MUNCIE, INDIANA, IN COMPANY OF SON IN LAW OF SAM JAFFEE IN

EARLY FORTIES AND POSSIBLY IN NINETEEN FORTYSIX OR SEVEN®

• SEYMOUR CHAZIN

ONE ZERO FIVE WEST ADAMS, CHICAGO, INTERVIEWED

THIS DATE BY SAS ROBERT AO VILLEMURE AND AVERY DACUS, AND ADVISED

HE IS A SON IN LAW OF SAM JAFFEE. CHAZIN STATED SUBJECT JACK

RUBENSTEIN UNKNOWN TO KIM AND THAT HE HAS NO KNOWLEDGE OF ANY CP

MEETINGS BEING HELD IN MUNCIE DURING FORTIES AND AT NO TIME EVER

ACCOMPANIED ANY GROUP FROM CHICAGO TO MEETING IN MUNCIE. HE

SAID ONLY SON IN LAW OF JAFFEE WHO MAY HAVE BROUGHT A GROUP FROM

CHICAGO TO MUNCIE IS NOW LIVING IN

LOS ANGELES. THIS SON IN

LAHOS PRESENT NAME IS IRWIN BERKE, HOWEVER, BECAUSE OF HIS SHOW

BUSINESS AFFILIATIONS HE CHANGED HIS NAME FROM IRWIN BERKESTEAD.

CRICAGO INDICES ON IRVIN BERKESTLAS AND IRVIN BERKE NEGATIVE.

END PAGE ONE

1. Orpy is

SEARCHED

INDEXED_

SERIALIZED

ELED -

NOV 2 3 1963

44-456 CONFIDENTIA

FBI - CINCINNATI

27sd-

DocId: 32194866

Page

2

---

## Page 3

MAt

PAGE TWO

FOLLOWING CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS ACTIVE IN CP IN THIRTIES

AND FOURTIES WERE EXHIBITED PHOTOS OF JACK RUBENSTEIN THIS DATE

AND ADVISED THIS INDIVIDUAL UNKNOWN TO THEM AS ACTIVE IN CP••

O FIVE SIX ZERO NINE DASH SURE ELVE MINE ZERO EIGHT GASIS CE

FIVE EIGHT NINE ZERO DASH SECG FIVE SEVEN NINE ZERO DASHIS, (ED(1)

FORMER CG. FIVE NINE ONE TWO DASH, S, FORMER C& FIVE THREE SEVEN

THREE DASH S.

LOS ANGELES HANDLE. INTERVIEW OF BERKE AS REQUESTED IN RE

CHICAGO TEL®

THIS COMPLETES CHICAGO PHASE OF INVESTIGATION TO IDENTIFY

AND INTERVIEW SONS IN LAW OF SAM JAFFEE.

FOR INFO CINCINNATI, CHICAGO HAS IDENTIFIED ALL THREE: SONS

IN LAW OF JAFFEE.

- END AND ACK PLS

WA 8-58 PM XXXAM. OK FBI WA

RM

CI

8-57 AM OK FBI CI GDM

DI.

7-57 AM OK FBI DI. EEA

LA

MLMB 8043..3

9*53

LA PLS REPEAT

TS TI

Donar

AM OK FBI LA

QLT DISCMM

HH 53025

DocId: 32194866 Page 3

---

