# docid-32281871

## Page 1

Date: 08/15/92

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10031

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

66-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : WH

FROM :

гО •

TITLE :

MINUTES OF SPECIAL GROUP MEETING, 3 NOVEMBER 1960

DATE : 11/03/60

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

CASTRO

CUBAN EXILES

U-2, CUBA

SUPPLY DROPS

BAY OF PIGS

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 74

Folder 4

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DocId: 32281871

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSHEICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF TH

SOOCUMENT

AS SANIT

VED

23-

14. Supply Drops - Cuba

Gen. Cabell explained that the Pinar de Rio supply mission had

not taken place because of the absence of specified communication

from the DZ, and the Escambray operation had been canceled because

of weather. He said that these missions are still planned, and assumed

_that the Group had no objections.

The members so signified.

V5. U-2, Cuba

Gen. Cabell said that the photographic coverage on the first

flight had been only about 50%, because of cloud cover.

He continued

that we are analyzing the exact results on a priority basis and that

some time after the middle of next week we should be in a position to

make recommendations for the missions required to extend the coverage.

Mr. Gray commented somcwhat wryly that this was all right with

him since he "would certainly not be available to discuss anything of

this kind before the middle of next week. " The other members appeared

to have the same reaction.

V6. Policy Consideration Re Cuban Exiles

Mr. Gray said that Assistant Attorney General Yeagley had spoken

to him after his meeting with Col. King and Messrs. Isterline and

folmany He had said that the information given to him by the CLA

representatives, and the arrangements for future coordination if

necessary, were entirely satisfactory to him. He had stated, however,

that a problem remains with respect to action the FBI should

take;

that is, the FBI needs guidance in its handling of Cuban exile groups

other than those under the direction of ClA.

The Group agreed that the best way to attack this problem would

be to have Mr. Yeagley attend next week's Special Group mecting and

discuss the matter at first hand. Mr. Parrott was asked to make

arrangements for this.

7.

Value of Cuba to the USSR as a Base Vig-a-vis

Cape Canaveral

Mr. Parrott gave Mi. Merchant the gist of the OSI memorandum

66.03

THE WIITE LOUDL OFE

0F015

т.i.

HH 53244

DocId:32281871 Page 2

-.

1.

---

