# docid-32302151

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10280-10088

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-210-3942

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/29/1966

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

CC, CUBELAS, ROLANDO, ARREST, TRIAL, CASTRO, FIDEL,

ASSOC, MIL ACT, CUBA, CP АСТ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NIT 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

v9.1

HH 54463

2

DocId: 32302151

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5010-107-02

MENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

ATT.

INFORMATION CONTAINED

CINES UNCLASSITIED

EXOE72 HERE SHONEY

OIHRENISE

Cubre

UsSe

SECRET

DIRECPOR,. FBI (113-7-210)

SAC, MIAMI'

(105-2878) (P)

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS

- CUBA

DATE:

MAR 2 9 1965

(TR) 9/30/97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLOPECL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_0161

1624326

Classif

NaY SP660902

Declass

WOR

116/86

Боди

9VOFK

JFK

nysnchatc.an

MON 10 DELL'

DEMONUE DEFAELA 1O DEBI' ZEE SNUTE TOO-JOCESO tOM LOBW IN MHICH LASHISHED

LEAVE Gransmited herewithvaremine copiesnafiave!

LIHIM, DEF

Copy Of instant IHM is also being

furnishe

USA FÁD, Ojus, Florida,, and CiAi Miami.

DULE

LHUV V2. HE BEZEMLED BA LH12

CЕS:0!4 EXCIVONE WYA HYNE BEEN

DETITEBA MUZ WUDE WEA DE DIELEBENL

гЕсІ сомЕ ести 06 Mones CErEC

cubi

feel that the arrest and riat

CUBELAS are nothing more

than part of the usual plan of

FIDEL CASTRO to embarrass the United States,and the CIA

in particular,

by charging, and by the admission, of

CUBELAS,

that

he

was recruited by the CIA.

The reputation

of CUBÉLAS has long been notorious as a 'pervert,. and he

has long been

friendly with numerous members of the Cuban

revolutionary

leadership.

As pointed out in instant IHM,

no attention was ever called to these serious defects -

until CUBELAS was arrested.

His arrest is now being used

Vto lift all

vestige of title and authority from EFIGENIO

AMELJETRAy, who was probably not as friendly with CUBELAS

as. FAURE. CHOMON.

It will be recalled that FAURE CHOMON

was also:

indicated as being somewhat at fault in the matter

of the

"Humboldt 7" incident wherein several students were

killed by the BATISTA Police and it subsequently developed

that a member of the Cuban Communist Youth was an informer

of the BATISTA police and was high in the CASTRO regime.

indicates

the time of

the famous

ENCL

113-7-210-3942

2-Bureau (Enc. 9)

(RM) g

ELS/al

Cosy to:

CIA/Sinto/RAO /USIDIA

* MAR 31 1966

(3)

ON/OSI/ACSt MET

12 fooling

slip for info.

14/12/60. by RAin

NAT

APR 12 18660. Savings Bonds Regain the Papall Savings Plan

SfP-10p98

54463

DocId: 32302151

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MM 105-2878

CONFIDENTIAL

Miami, Florida

MAR & 8 1960

ALI: INFORHATION DONTAINED

RAGS GAID

RE: MITIZARI AND NAVAL MATTERS - CURA:

+ 21, 326

Ciassinal by Sl6BrA/ECL

Declassio

: OADR716/86

MORALE AND LOYALTY OF CUBAN ARMED FORCES

05 RMB/EH 3-3- qu JFK

Several reports have been received indicating

low morale

and a growing distruat.of FIDEL CASTRO in the

Armed Forces, and distruss of the Armed Forces In FIDEL

CASTRO's leadership.

MM T-1, wno is widely acquainted with pro and

CASTRO elements, and who maintaine contact with at

many Cuben news media,

on Marcha, 1966, described

forces which are stationed zu cemeriosa, Varadero,

Cardenas, and

Matanzes,

He noted that the militia

wears a khaki'uniform and is under the orderstof both G-2

and Army officers.

They guard fastories, industries, publie

offices and houses seized by the Cuber Government from their

legitimate owners..

They also furnish some men, upon

demand or order, to the Coastal and fort Control Departments)

The militia carry rifles onty when they are on duty, and

they are not regarded as one hundred percent loyal to the!

regime, and they know it.

The Rebel Army hag been made up of men more

trusted by the regime, especially since they, have

finally filtered out all ex-BATISTA officers and men.

The army Is better trusted, has more authority, is better

paid and in general, has the privilege of living in homes

stolen or seized from their previous owners::

Many home's

are equipped with swimming poole and other comforts to

which the present Cubas soldier was never accustomed in

113-7-210-3942

ENCLOSURE

HIH

54463 DooId: 32302151

Page 3

---

## Page 4

RE:

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS

of the Cuban Communist Farty, editorialized on the

stripping

of rank and position of MaJor EFIGENIO AVEIJEIRAS.

AMEIJEIRAS was a long-time friend of FIDEl CASTRO and the

Cuban revolution and was the first Chief of the Cuban

NatIonal Revolutionary Police.

He was removed in about

1961 and given various

assignments, Including a trip to

Europe, which was intended to bring

about his better

understanding of Communism and Indoctrination with

the

same.

His nickname In Spanish 18 "Id Yerbita" ("The

Little Herb", which 18 a nickname stemming from his

notoriety as a marijuana smoker.

MM T-1 called attention

to the fact that all of ANEIJaLRAS' vices have been known

to the police long before CASTRo's advent to power, but

It is only now that his vices, corruptness, and misconduct

form sufficient reason for his renoval from all positions

of authority.

The editorial in "Granna" stated that this

action

was due to his Irresponalble conduct and the great harm

he was doing to his ow prestige and that of the revolution

by maintaining friendly relations with "anti-social elements,

vagabonds, and corrupt individuals"

It was

then noted that

AMEIJEIRAS had had a close friendship and association with

former Major ROLANDO CUBELAS, mentioned above as under

trial for plotting to k111 FIDEL CASTRO and overthrow the

government.

"and above

all, with that of being a member of the Central Committee

of the communist party to which he was elected In

recognition of his outstanding war record, his terrible

suffering in which he lost three brothers in the struggle,

and with

the hope that

he would make a maximum effort to

overcome

his defecte"

MM I-2

source with many years experience as both a police

and private investigator, and who maintains contact

3.

NW 54463 DooId: 32302151 Page 4

---

## Page 5

L

RE: - MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS

cuba

some sources in Cuba, Informed

March 10, 1966, that

FIDEL CASTRO IS

accompanied,

when he travels,

byshis

physician, Major RiNE vAlEJO, who 1s

Kormunist marrred

to a Hungarian refugee,

by ARMANDe

ART, a member Of

thencentra

JOSE

LLANOS

mmittee of the Cuban Communist Party, and

OBERT, also a member al the auban Communist

Party.

MM T-2 stated that some of the high officials

of the Rebel Army who formerly took turns In accompanying

FIDEL CASTRO on his trips throughout the country and

In the capitol Itself, 100k unfavorably upon the preference

which the head of the Cuban Government now appears

to place

In these three persons, especially HART and LIANUSA, whom

they consider to be riding on the victor's "band wagon"

without being true Communists insofar as their political

ideals are concerned.

This Jealousy has not reached such.

à stage as to be regarded a a threat to CAStros secure

control and domination of the. Armed Forces, but 1t 18 a

dissident factor and is definitely making

some headway.

MM T-2 stated that during part of the time when

FIDEL CASTRO WaS attempting

to overthrow the government

Of FUICENCIO BATISTA,

ROIANDO CUBEIAS and FAURE CHOMON

resided together in Miami.

They were intimate friends

and both are widely reported by Cubane,

including. Cuban

physicians, to be effeminate and sexual perverts.

FAURE

CHOMON WaS

an early Ambassador of Cuba to the Soviet Union.

He was then a Minister of communications,

and now a Minister

of Transportation and also & member of the Central Committee

the cuban Communist Party. MuM I-r

stated that it could

well be that his association and

friendship with

ROLANDO CUBELAS

may now be used by

Cuban Government 1n

order to purge

ChOMoN from a position of title and

authority

HH

54463 DooId: 32302151

Page 5

---

