# docid-32297729

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10220-10005

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-199

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 11/12/1976

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: OBA, CUBANA AIRLINES, CRASH, CAUSED BY BOMB, EVID, CONVICTION,

SUSP

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/05/1996

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

H# 54027

DocId: 32297729

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JUUDA

EDITIONS

8-73

SECRET (When Filled in)

BALIGENC

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

PECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONI

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

ASSANITIZED

GMB 8/5/9

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

IN

098668

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

"IS/MC (DIA) CIA/NAICE SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

37 SS/ID FBI SECUR

od Reporting

(3)

Impossible

Dato of Automatic Doclassification

EMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

OLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

ORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TDFIR DB 315/11388-76

DERAL GOVURNVENT

DIST 12 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS -

NOT RELEASABIBE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY

VENEZUELA/CUBA

OCUBANA.AIRLINES

purgeion

SUBJECT

ACQ

SOURCE

EARLY NOVEMBER 1976

*CUBAN OFFER TO SUPPLY VENEZUELA WITH EVIDENCE ON THE

CUBANA AIRLINER CRASH

EVENEZUELA. CARACA 17501933

NOVEMBER 19761 CIELD NO HV9 3541

A VENEZUELAN WITH CLOSE

"RECA 93

1.

DURING THE WEEK OF I MOVEMER 1976 RETIRED GENERAL

RAUL

"ET NOV. TE 1976

IME NE EGAINZA. HEAD OF -THE DTRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF

--295

INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP), SAID THAT HE HAD ACCEPTED AN

OFFER BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMET TO PROVIDE HIM WITH EVIDENCE AGAINST THE

FOÜR INDIVIDUALS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION

IN VENEZUELA IN THE CASE

OF THE 6 OCTOBER CRASH OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, THE CUBAN OFFER,

GIMENEZ SAID, CAME FROM NORBER TOX

ERNANDEZ

CURBELO, THE

CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO VENEZUELA..

2, THE EVIDENCE , GIMENEZ SAID, CONSISTS OF MEDICAL REPORTS WHICH

THE CUBANS HAVE INFORMED MIM CLEARLY INDICATE THAT THE CUBANA CRASH

anis

FBI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

5 5 DEC

8 1976

48

DATE.

NW 54027

DoCTd: 32297729

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FORM

0.75

3007

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

RECEIVED

*I NORAL

INVESTICATIVE

NOV 2 3 1976

220-10005

RECENONDIZ

INTELLIGENCE DIV® 27 AM 386

B. 1.

LEPT, OF JU WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE, INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN 098668

TDFIR DB 315/11388-76

PAGEZ OF 3 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classt/icatton)

WAS CAUSED BY A POWERFUL BOMB, THE BODIES OF THE CRASH VICTIMS WERE

EXAMINED BY DOCTORS FROM BARBADOS AND ANOTHER UNIDENTIFIED COUNTRY,

AND CUBAN DOCTORS WERE IN NO WAY INVOLVED WITH THE EXAMINATIONS OR

THE PREPARATION OF THE MEDICAL REPORTS, GIMENEZ SAID THAT HERNANDEZ

INFORMED HIM THAT THEY SHOW THAT AN EXPLOSION

DEFINITELY OCCURRED IN THE AIRCRAFT, AS MANY OF THE BODIES, OF THE

CRASH VICTIMS WERE BLOWN APART AT THE WAIST.

3, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, GIMENEZ SAID, BADLY NEEDS

ADMISSIBLE EVIDENCE AGAINST THE FOUR DETAINEES, AS LITTLE SUCH

EVIDENCE CURRENTLY EXISTS, IN THE EVENT THAT THIS LACK OF EVIDENCE

PERSISTS DIMENEZ SAID THAT IT WAS POSSIBLE THAT THE CASE WOULD

BE TURNED UVER TO THE MILITARY COURT WHERE MUCH LESS EVIDENCE IS

NEEDED FOR CONVICTION.

4. (FIELDI

COMMENTE A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE INDEPENDENTLY

REPORTED THAT TWO DISAP OFFICERS ARE TO BE DISPATCHED TO HAVANA

ON THE MORNING OF 11 NOVEMBER

TO PICK UP THE EVIDENCE OFFERED

GIMENEZ BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT: A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY

INDEPENDENTLY REPORTED THAT AS OF EARLY NOVEMBER THE VENEZUELAN

GOVERNMENT LACKED ADMISSIBLÉ EVIDENCE AGAINST THOSE SUSPECTED OF

• BEING INVOLVED IN

CUBANA

INCIDENT, BEFORE MEZUELAN COURTS

SEE

NW 54027 DooId: 32297729

Page 3

---

## Page 4

=9-75

FORM - 3007

OBS@LETE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

IN 098668

TDFIR DB 315/11388-76

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

SEGRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(classification)

CAN PROCEED WITH A CRIMINAL CASE AGAINST ANYONE SUSPECTED OF BEING

INVOLVED IN THE CUBANA CRASH, THE AUTHORITIES MÜST PROVE THAT A

CRIME WAS INDEED. COMMITTED. THE CUBAN INFORMATION MIGHT PROVIDE

THE NEEDED PROOF OF A CRIMINAL ATTACK AGAINST THE AIRCRAFT AND ITS

PASSENGERS. )

5. EIELDIDISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS:

REPORT GLASS SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE.

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONAL S--

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2':

SECRE

NH 54027

DooId: 32297729

Page 4

---

