# docid-32334608

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10314

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-96

Released under the John F.

Date: 05-30-2017

144 USC

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1965

• PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

KH 33074 DocId: 32331608

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, FBI

(62-107261)

February 10, 1965

SAC, MIAMI

205-9

(P)

"MINUTENEN

(INPORMATION CONCERNING) 105-492/

SECURITY MATTER

VALJEAN MATTHEN HALEY, POT, who 1s a Deputy

Sheriff, Pain each County, Florida, recently advised

that he sent $.20 to "Minutenen," Post office Box e5,

torborne, Lissours, requesting literature from that

organization.

on about casuary 2o.

1965, he received

an envelope marked Third Class, which was postaarked

in Independence, Missourt, with no date on the postuark.

Inside that envelope we a second envelope which was a

"business reply envelope," and was addressed to the

BLoaD Corporation, Norborne, Missours Inside that

envelope was a pappalet enticted,

"Prineiples of

Guerrilla Varfare,

published by captioned organization.

This envelope also enclosed a membership

application form for "Hlinutenen.*

Also contained in this literature vas a slip

of paper which had printed a "caution" that checks are

Morottined by banking institutions and that records

are kept for many years, and instructed that persons

having financial dealings with that organization should

not send checks, but should send cash instead.

2 - Bureau (RII

2

— Kansas City

10- Miami

JiD/neb

(6)

(62-7797)

(12-7) 7

Searched

Serialized

Indexed.

Filed

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED -

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 13,84 BY SPEBTALO

211,326

105-4921-96

1056

HH 53074 DocId: 32334608

Page 2

---

## Page 3

HN 105-9174

FOr 1680 Meadow Court, Rest

received "Minutenen" literature, which has been postmarked

at tami, Hollywood, and West Palm Beach, Florida.

PSl did not know how his name could have been

obtained by captioned organization, but speculated that

it could have come from two sources:

Tirsty, he has

recently written several "Letters to the Bditor to

the local press, which were published. He thought

possibly his name could have been secured in this manner.

Secondly, he said he is a member of the Rangers Battalion

Association,

waich is composed of a group of former members

of the Pirat - Pifth Banger Battalion, Valted States Army,

during forld laz II.

The headquarters of this association

1s located at 1772 North Orchard, Los Angeles, California.

VITCHER conjectured that the above association maintains

a membership list, and that the "Minutenen" organization

possibly could have obtained this list, and 1s attespring

to recrult persons with a Ranger's background. The PSI

concluded,

however, that the above was strietly speculation

on his part.

The above being subuitted to Kansas City and

Los Angeles for information purposes.

J0nf-1031-

NW 53074 DooId:32334608

Page

3

---

