# docid-32311391

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10313-10007

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-395934-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: WC

TITLE :

DATE: 04/16/1964

' PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/23/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311391

Page 1

---

## Page 2

/Released under the Fohn F- Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

§

4 1H

ORMATIOBLOOMAIKOD

ASSIFIED

SECEN OTHERWISE:

HEREIN

THN

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Calichan

Contad

DeLoach

Evans

Gile

Rosen

Sullivan

Tovel

Trotter

Tele.doom

Holmes

Sandy

SECRET

44493

classi!

Decla

1

almont

Mohr

-

ROSEn

-, Deloach

Sullivan

Malley

- Branigan

April 16, 1964

BY COURIER SERVICE

SPIC

020

ON.

9/2/95.

5668 SL0/mde.

1

Honorable J. Lee Ranksin

- Lenihan

-

Rose

- Stokes

General Counsel

The President's Comnission

200 Maryland Avonue, N. I.

Washington, D. C.

+182-1604

GLASSIFIED BY 3042ENT/AG

DECLASSIFY.

Dear Mr. Rankin:

Enclosed are to copies of & nonorandun in the

Lee harvey Oswald case dated April 10, 1064, classified

"Secret."

The enclosed mencrandun deals cith the connents

and speculations of one Llizabeth Catlett

naturalized Mexican citizen of American Origzho is

presently a member of the Communist Party of Wrico.

4

In regard to Hora's renark concorning tho

importance of locating press reicrences to Oswald' activities

In New Orleans, Louisiana, before he went to Russin, our

report dated narch 9, 1954, at New Orleans, Louisiana, sets

jorth the negative results of our review of New Orlo-as

newspapers for the period immediately prior to Oswi

departure for france on September 20, 1950. Investigation

has previously established that Oswald received his pnseport

on September 10, 1959, at Los Angeles,

California, and nas

discharged fron the United States Mri: c Corps in California

on Septenber 11, 1959. Additionl

coruation concerning

Osvald's activitics in the few Orle. s area in Septenber, 1959,

is set forth in our

report in tho Osuald case dated

December 10,

1963,

at New Orleans.

It appears that Oswald

checked into

the Liberty Hotel in New Orleans on

September 17, 1939. U

100-3,95934

NOT

LECORA

189

MAT

SY

$ 196.

177

ONIOV3N-0.03%

HOOH

ICS: jal:pabi

(12)

Shots

-FBI

excluded from mutomati

downgrading tad

destassilicat100k

path bri?

Jus

CON

(STE NOTE PAGE THO)

MAIL ROOM EZ MEETINI

DocId: 32311391

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaset miter the Join F. kennent Assassinal

DATE: 11-14-2017

Recorus

Collection Act of 1992 111 05c 7107 Hotey.

SACH

Honorable J. Lee Rankin

You will observe that Mora has been 1l1 and,

because of her illness, our source has been unable to

obtain additional data concerning her comments despite

persistent efforts to this end.

Our source is still

hopeful of developing further details and additional

information will be furnished to you as it is developed y

to the Central Intelligence

Agency in view of its interest in Oswald's activities while

11 Bussia.

Sincerely yours,

I. Edgar Hoover

Enclosures (2)

NOTE:

The enclosed letterhead is from Mexico City.

It

sets forth speculations of Mora that Oswald could be linked

to Mexico only through his activities prior to going to

USSR in 1959. Mora indicated that tie in to Mexico may lie

in press references to Oswald's activities in New Orleans

for the few days he was in that area prior to going to Russia

in September, 1959, when he was 19 years old. She also said

that Oswald knew Mary Louise Patterson, (an American negress

presently attending the Friendship School in USSR)when he was

in Russia; hence we are furnishing copies of letterhead to

(the highly placed

AMex-18 and Mex-19) anticipated spending a few days with mora,

who has been ill, during first two weeks of Aprily however

they cannot assure us that Mora will be well enough for

recontact as she has been ill for a long time.

SECRET

- 2/

SEE NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THREE

DocId: 32311391 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEC

ET®

Honorable J. Lee Bankin

NOTE CONTINUED:

Letter classified "Secret" as Legat has so

classified letterhead to protect our sensitive sources

who furnish information involving espionage and other

information vital to internal security oî U.S. Letter

bears Group One as its contents tend to indicate that our

sources are in contact with Mora. U

SECRET

- 3 ∞

DocId: 32311391

Page 4

---

