# docid-32310648

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10306-10057

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-3884

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/19/1964

PAGES:

21

SUBJECTS :

SAF, ORGANIZATIONS, MIL EQUIPMENT, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648

Page 1

---

## Page 2

203 (99r3259

EPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

ITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFRENTIAT

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

CONFIDENTIAL

1/3/64

- 3/5/64

3/19/64

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

CHARACTER OF CASE

RJD:

TYPED BY

plm

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO

ACTIVITIES

ALL INFORGIATION CONTAINED

HERENNIS UNCI ASSIFIED

Classified by SPUBaTTAL

IS

CUBA

EXCEFT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Declassify on: DADR 4-16 86

AP

REFERENCE:

Report SÀ ROBERT JAMES DWYER, 1/9/64,

Miami.

OFFICES

-Р-

Classified by

Declassity on

9788 RCReti

OADR

NG

IATE AGENC

2:1-87

- LEADS -

114.

APPROPRIATE AGENAIES

MIAMI:

1- 1-6

AT?-

1296

clan

ratione

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

PATE

39,16

Will continue submission of summary report

regarding captioned matter every two months.

Classified by

INFORMA NiSassified by x&

Declassity on:/ OADR

54384

Exempt I

8/18/22

m GD3,

Scr

IDENTITY

111326

ion Indefinite.

MA 1-1 IS MY 639-SIK(2)

134-238

PROVED

"IES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

12

/Bureau (109-584) (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

109-15÷1

-31884

REC- 34

gency

Request Recd.

Pate Fiwd.

Jow Fwd.

0B, See

8

MAR 24 1964

Cover Page B

for Copies)

3 - Miami (2 - 105-1742)

2 XEROX Copies

inal 5-774704

4-7-

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

ENS: DIA Custo

Copy to. CIA/State/THO

ONI/ OST ACSI FAA

COASt GUARd

by re

Datehi

Блень

• for info

CRi

160

VItals.

apfais State Kaft

105. 3115

COLINENTIAL a

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM. 105-1742

Copies:

(Continued)

CONFIHEHTTAL

1 - ONI, Miami (RM)

1 - G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

1 - OSI, Robins AFB, Ga. (RM)

CONXDENTIAL

1 - U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

2 - U.S. Customs, Miami (RM) (1-Miami) (1-Region II)

1 - U.S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

1. - CIA, Miami (RM)

1 - FAA, Miami (RM)

1 - Department of State (Cuban Affairs), Miami (RM)

1 - Boston (105-4151) (Info) (RM)

1 - Jacksonville (109-8) (Info) (RM)

1 - Newark (105-1006) (Info) (RM)

1 - New York: (105-35253) (Info) (RM)

(U)

1 - San Juan (Info) (RM)

1 - Savannah (Info) (RM)

1 - Chicago (105-6033) (Info) (RM)

1 - Los Angeles (Info) (RM)

1 - New Orleans (105-1095) (RM) (Info)

1 - San Francisco (109-11) (Info) (RM)

1. - Tampa (Info) (RM)

1 - Washington Field

' (105-29955) (Info) (RM)

*

*

*

*

MM

T-2 is

PSI 97-327

IN T-3 18 MICHAEL A REDMON, (U)

Investigator, INS, Miami

(by request)

97-327

(4 JEVIEWED BY REJFK TASK FOROTHER A

9/4/92 dak

E RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

MM T-4 is PSI (under

development) GONZALO HERRERA

Miami, Florida

MM T-5 is

2954 SW 16th Terrace, 10% 04)

Miami, Florida by request

Instant report, Page&

OTHER 4

report, Page_ /C

B

(COVER PAGE)

CONIXDENTIAR

CONFSSRANTIAL

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDFANTTALS

CONFIBENTIAL

MM 105-1742

MM T-6 is CHRIS LAWRENCE,

Operations Survey Group,

U.S. Army, Mami(U)

(by request)

MM T-Y isl

PSI (under de ve lopment)

Instant report,

Page

14

105-2855

OTHER 4

(COVER PAGE)

CONFORTAN:

CONFIENTIAY

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-1742

CONTYENTIAL

DETAILS:

I.

ORCA NIZATIONS

MEAN BAS

Miamina:

• Junta Revolucionaria Cubana. (JURE)

JURE is a unity organization consisting of the following

!

Cuban anti-FIDEL CASTRO organizations:

Cuba Libre

Revolutionary National Assembly

National Revolutionary Cuban Front

Liberating Army of Cuba

and a small group of Cuban exiles who have

received military training at Fort Jackson,

South Carolina.

On January 24, 1964, CARLOS/ZARRACA, 2954 Southwest

16th Terrace, Miami, Florida, advised

he is a member of JURE,

and was formerlythe head of Cuba Libre. ZARRAGA said

JURE consists of a five-man national board, with headquarters

in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and MANUEL RAY Is the head of

this board.

In the United States, ROGELIQ CISNEROS 1s the FLH

delegate_in_Miami, and RAUL, CHIBAS is the delegate in

New York_ City.

- Military Equipment -

ZARRAGA continued that the organization, at the

present time, is trying to buy small portable radio equipment,

to be used in

the underground in Cuba. The type that is

2.

CONG

DENTIAL

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 5

---

## Page 6

CONFI

Wilte

MM 105-1742

available for purchase. is too large and bulky, and

the

type which is sought by JURE is that equipment used by

the United States Armed Forces.

JURE has some boats in the Miami area, and also

has a 50-foot boat, location unknown, that can be used

for infiltration purposes. JURE has two •20 mm cannons

other miscellaneous military equipment.

It is planned that

five or six infiltration teams, each team consisting of

five or six individuals, will be sent to Cuba.

- Finances -

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA, CUBANA

JURE is presently

selling bonds to raise

money

to pay for the organization's expenses. J. JO/MARABOTTO,

formerly a Vice-President of a bank in Cuba,. is presently

(U)

employed in a bank in San Juan, Puerto Rico. MARABOTTO handles

JURE's finances, and has recently arranged for a bank in

San Juan to grant a loan of $125 to any Cuban exile in

Puerto Rico. Of the $125, JURE will receive $92, and the

rest of the money goes for interest, stamps and administrative

costs. The individual has one year to repay the $125 loan.

If the money is not repaid, JURE guarantees the loan. As

a result of these loans and bond sales, JURE has been able

to raise between $25,000 and $30,000 in Puerto Rico, and

about $1,200 in the Los Angeles area.

- Military Section -

ZARRAGA advised that MANUEL CASTRO VARELA

. .!.

CURI

Elizabeth, New Jersey, was formerly a

Colonel in the

excellent reputation. CASTRO has accepted the position of

chooe a General Staff..

MANTID ITALI

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 6

---

## Page 7

MM 105-1742

TITS REGULA

CONFIBENTIAL

ALVAREZ APOCRIGUEZ

On February 6, 1964, SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ,

541 Northwest 45th Avenue. Miami, advised he was formerty

one of the leaders of Comandos I (C-L), an organization

which has conducted raids against_ Cuba. ALVAREZ advised

that JURE, through its leader, MANUEL RAY, has very good

contacts in the Cuban Militia and Rebel Army. ALVAREZ

stated that JURE has a large quantity of arms and munitions.

ALVAREZ said he recently returned from Columbus, Georgia, where

he talked to a reliable individual who claims to have sold a

considerable quantity of arms to RAY, and delivery was made

to an island in the vicinity of Puerto Rico in the Caribbean.

ALVAREZ stated he had no doubt that RAY would try to establish

some military activity in Cuba in the near future.

On February 28, 1964, CARLOS ZARRAGA advised

that

JURE's bond sales had increased considerably, and the

organization has sold between $50,000 and $75,000 wortie of yi!!.

bonds.

This money was used by the organization for expenses

and purchases of additional military equipment. The largest

donation given to the organization was from ROMULO, BETANCOURT,

President_of_ Venezuela, with whom RAY had recently conferred.

ZARRAGA continued that RAY has publicly stated

he plans to be in Cuba by May 20, 1964; final preparations

are being made, and there is no doubt that RAY will be

there by the time announced.

on March 5, 1964, JOAQUIN GODOY, head of the

anti-CASTRO organization Movimiento Revolucionario del

Pueblo. (MRP), advised it Is his opinion that RAY will

open a small

operation in Cuba for about three or four

months beginning sometime in May. RAY will then return

to the United States on a big organization drive, for the

purpose of establishing a large unity movement for the

eventual return to Cuba.

FLA

4.

CONF

ENTIALI

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 7

---

## Page 8

MM 105-1742

CONFIDE

XIAh

NARAGUE

Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

This organization continues to maintain headquarters

at 2212 Northeast Second Court and 224 Northeast 23rd Street,

Miami

Florida. The leader of this organization is MANUEL,

ARTINE BUESA, a medical doctor and veteran of the Bay of

Pigs invasion. (U)

MANUEL DARTIME

On February 12, 1964, MM T-2, an officer of the

MRR, advised the organization thinks that the telephone

at one of the headquarters, located at 2212 Northeast

Second Court, has been tapped.

MM I-2 advised that ADELAIDAXPADRONKeRUZ, 881.

Northeast 71st Street, Miami, continues to bé ARTIME's

mistress.

meetings.

This residence is used by ARTIME for secret

[MM lad (U) that the MRR continues with its

publicity and propaganda campaign, and continues issuing its

monthly newspaper, "Tridente". Radio propaganda broadcasts

aper are campaign

continue to be made on Monday, Wednesday and Friday over

the 25, 31 and 49 meter bands.

(ru)

On February 2, 1964, MM T-3Jadvised that during the

month of February, 1964,

47 different recruits who were members

I the MRR have arranged for cransportarton from Miami

lorida to Central America. MM T-3 stated that ARTIN

wice during the monti

he was unable to state how many of the 47 members and recruits

of the MRR who left the United States have returned

7.

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 8

---

## Page 9

,CONFIDA

NTIAL

MM 105-1742

[on February 4, 1964, MM I-4, a Cuban pilot who

received

some training in the United States Air Force,

urni shed the

stated there were about 26 Cuban officers

in the United States Air Force; 150 in the United States

claimed that ARTIME had recruited a number of Cuban exiles

out of the

United States Army for service with his group.

LMM T-4 sa

Cuban officers in the United States Armed

Forces

consider ARTIME completely unqualified as a military

leader.

BATISTLA

On February 6, 1964, LAUREANO BATISTA /FALIA,

military leader of the

Movimiento Democrata Cristiano

(MDC),

Miami, claimed there is ample proof and evidence that

ARTINE, who has no background as a military leader, and

who is considered by many as a demagogue, is being officially

sponsored and subsidized.

On February 10, 1964, FRANCISCO/RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO, (U)

Miami, advised he was formerly a Cuban rebel military

leader in

_Cuba, and now has

a small anti-CASTRO organization

in Miami.

RODRIGUEZ advised that recently ARTIME'

representatives visited him and tried to recruit him and his

men to go to a training camp in Nicaragua for future

military operations in Cuba.

On February 28, 1964, CARLOS ZARRAGA, Miami,

member of JURE, advised his organization had trained some

radio telegraph operators, and when their training was

8.

AANFIDEN

ITIAL

NW 45779 DocId: 32310648 Pagé 9

---

