# docid-32289139

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10200-10415

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3267-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/15/1958

2

JRO, TRA, RES, REQ, FINANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45945

DocId: 32289139

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 1/15/58

OREFROM :

LOS ANGELES (92-113)

SUBJECT:

JOHN ROSELLI, waS.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ng.

00: Los Angeles

Re SAC Letter 57-70NL

ax91

The following individuals have furnished information

concerning ROSELLI and will probably be able to furnish

additional information about his current activities:

Mrs. RALPH (ELLYN) GORMAN, manager of the apartment

house at 1251 North Crescent Heights Boulevard, Los Angeles,

where ROSELLI maintains an apartment.

LA 3445-C, who formerly lived in the same apartment

house where ROSELLI

lived and who, although he has had no

recent contacts with ROSELLI, is acquainted with many hoodlums

in the Los Angeles area.

It is to be noted that ROSELLI spends most of his

time in Las Vegas, Nevada, and is at his apartment in Los

Angeles only a few days each month.

Mrs. GORMAN has advised

he was last in the apartment on 12/13/57. The Salt Lake

City Office has advised that ROSELLI has been residing at the

Tropicana Hotel in Las Vegas.

In the future, contact will be maintained with Mrs...

GORMAN, who has promised that she advise the Los Angeles

Office as soon as ROSELLI returns to his apartment.

Con-

sideration will be given to the possibility of developing

an informant who has access to ROSELLI's apartment through

Mrs. GORMAN.

2- Bureau

I- Los Angeles

HFD : fet

(3)

RECORDED - 65

SE

50

N923221

JAN 4/ 1958

TH11 05WN2

NH 45945 DocId: 32289139

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

ROSELLI employs a maid who comes daily to his

apartment for a short period.

Investigation 1s being con-

ducted to identify her and after background information is

obtained, consideration will be given to interview her.

The Narcotics Bureau at Los Angeles has furnished

the name of an individual named

a close

friend of RoSaLI who 18 willing to runish Intormatiled re

ROSELLI. Consideration will be given to developing

as a source.

A request has been sent to the Bureau for a 30 day

mail cover on ROSELLI at his apartment residence.

ROSELLI's bank account at the California Bank

has been checked and arrangements made to monitor his account

in the future.

OTHER 4

-2-

NW 45945 DocId: 32289139 Page 3

---

