# docid-32340900

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10221-10293

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 174-5904-14

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KLINE. DENNY L.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/26/1975

PAGES:

15

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, BOMBINGS, WHEREABOUTS, FUNDS, TERRORIST ACT,

ARREST, MEETING, ACA, INTV, MARQUEZ, GUILLERMO MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Confidential

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932 DocId: 32340900

Page 1

---

## Page 2

COM

SECRETL

NY

NK 174-2184

The following sources were contacted on 2/13/75,

by SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN with negative results

concerning

captioned matter:

NK 6093-PSI

INK 5775-PSI

NK 5006-S

The following information was received on 2/20/75,

by SA PETER H. CROOKS:

NK 5006-S advised that HECTOR/ALEONSO, aka Fabian,

moved his family from Union City JJ,

doctor's advice

to Miami Ela, based on

connection with the health of his

son who

is a Mongoloid.

GUILLERMO MARTINEZ MARQUEZ Of NYC, who is employed as

journalist for El Diario,

a Spanish-language daily newspaper

published at Miami, and who was the guest of honor during the

captioned banquet:

was previously the number-one man in the

operation known as

plan Torriente" ICK (Ul)

This number-one position was initially held by

ENRIQUE HUERTAS who originally opened the bank account (69) in

Miami, Fla., known as the Banco Jose Marti which contained

the Torriente Plan funds.

HUERTAS withdrew from the membership

and publicly turned over

the funds to Torriente and MARTINEZ

_ ENRIQUE HUERTAS is President of the Cuban Medical

in Miami, Fla.,

He was a classmaté

Class of 1948.

(2U)

JUAN PULIDO, who is

reputedly collecting funds to

support the current terrorist activities of BOSCH,) is the bead

of the New Jersey Chapter of the Cuban Medical Association and

more than likely would have

The authorization of HUERTAS before

undertaking such collection PULIDO is a pediatrician land

formerly associated with Cubanos Libros an Union City,

NJ. -

(u)

E

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

991-10903

HH 53932

DooId: 32340900

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CU

Cuba

NT.

NI°

NK 174-2184

NK 5007-S advised that ALFREDO MARRERO, a Cuban

about 5s years oi age who resides.

In Elizabeth,

collecting money for ORLANDO BOSCH. RA

FABIAN, upon moving to Miami,

placed

RICARDO

PASTRANO. 1n charge of MIM. In Miami, FABIAN signed a pact

between his organization,..

MIM, and ABDALA with GUSTAVO MARIN,

which agreed to operate under the name FIENTE DE INTEGRACION

(FIN). (This information is questioned by other knowledgeable.

sources based on the relative strength of MARIN in the Cuban co.

ommunity and the seagu

of FABIAN as a leader of small stature

ith no following.)SU

B. Approx 1902

7la

NK 2622-S advised that he was present at captioned

banquet

who was

also present, that

Source advised that about one and one-half months ago,

a banquet had been given by the Cuban Teachers' Association to

honor CARLOS FERRER in connection with his recent election to the

Board of Education.

This function was held at the Holiday Inn,

Newark, NJ, adjacent to Newark International. Source stated that

ABDALA members attended this banquet in protest of Cubans

participating in festive events when the monies could be better

put towne in support of aNon

About one month ago, a banquet was held at the Latin

American Club on Elizabeth Avenue in Elizabeth, NJ, to honor

the newly-elocted officers of the latin American Chamber of

Congress. At this affiar, CARLOS ALVAREZ DEL/ CASTILLO, a Cuban

disc jockey who resides in Elizabeth, called for contributions

in support of BOSCH.

apparently made the announcement by request. The first contributor

in the amount of $10 was ORLANDO/BARRERO Who runs a bookstore

located at the corner of First Street and Livingston in Elizabeth,

Nd; abaut $350 was collected for BOSCh's cause le(U

Source stated thattit was a common tactic, which

occurred periodically in the Cuban community, for an organization

seeking funds to call for a moratorium on social activities such

as dances, parties and barquets in an attempt to divert funds

ir support of a particular cause, in the current case, support

for the activities of ORLANDO BOSCH.

G

• COVER PAGE

851-10513

NW 53932 DooId: 32340900

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONr

INHAL

SECRE

NK 174-2184

N.T.

* и)

NK 3350-S advisod

thelACCION CUBANA (National

N.T.

Leader - ORLANDO BOSCH) is headed

ElIzabeth, NJ,

→ by ORLANDO

BARRERO and JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ, with.

JOSEXTENRERIO. " MT

has spend

SUAREZ is currently unemployed and in the recent past

extensive periods in Miami, Fla. His wife continues

to reside at 903 Cross Ave., Elizabeth, NJ.

On Saturday, 2/8/75, SUAREZ was present at a dance

sponsored by ABDALA, which dance was held at the Elks Hall,

40 Chergy St., Elizabeth, NJ, where he spoke at length with

GUSTAVO MARIN. This event was held to raise money for ABDALA

and was attended by about 125 individuals.

The hall was rented

by ENRIQUE XMASIDA, fOr $400. ILIA ENCINOSA and the ESTRADA

brothers were present at/this afflar?

24)

-Cuba

NT.

to raise cash for an unknown purpose.

On 2/23/75, SA FERNANDO E. MATA provided the following

information:

On 2/22/75, NK 2969-PSI who is

acquainted with

Newark's Cuban community, advised he had learned that on

2/10/75, a meeting took place at the Booadway Sandwich Shop,

located

in Newark.

The meeting was attended by 25-30 Cuban

businessmen whose establishments are located in Newark.

group called itself ACCION CUBANA (Cuban Action) and the

The

program was headed by Dr. JUAN PULIDO, a Newark physician of

Cuban extraction.

Dr. PULIDO spoke of the following:

That there was need to collect money from Cuban

businesses to help ACCION CUBANA and its leader, DR. ORLANDO

BOSCH, in the fight against communism in Cuba.

There would be acts of terrorism similar to those

already performed by palestenian guerillas against those who

promoted peaceful coexistence with CASTRO's Cuba.

These actions

would include hijacking of unfriendly airplanes and kidnappings

H

COVER PAGE

SE

DUND

05-23

NW 53932 DooId: 32340900 Page 4

---

