# docid-32122256

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK.

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10020-10093

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

62-109060-1ST NR 2321

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

SAC, CI

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

: 02/07/1964

PAGES

2

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: JFK,

INFORMANT, 'ADVICE,

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 01/29/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

NAAWP

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Bäck to Brief Results®

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit. JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 1Flov. 12-13-56%

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

FBI

Date:

2/7/54

(Type in plain texi or code)

AM

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

4

alcoholic tIa, = 515

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-43712)

SAC, CINCINNATI (157-166) (P)

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF

WHITE PEOPLE

RACIAL MATTERS

(0o" cericianati)

Deto Ferv. FBB 12 1054.

How Fow.

ro

5y.

rel: cag.

/ cc Ory

Crit N

LIM suitable for dissemination.

WILLIAM MILLER furnished information to SAS

JOHN T. PRYOR and JAMES

W. AWE on 2/4/54.

Confidential Source #1 utilized in LiM is

1338 Lyon Road, Amelia, Ohio, who

furnished information to SA BENNY J

CANNY and W.

FANES or 2/4/64.

12-10906

ELOISE WITTE, 1654 Otte

Avenue :

Cincinna

Ohio, furnished information to SAS JOIN To PRYO& 196

BENNY

J. CANNY 01? 2/5/64.

The second

Confidential Source utilized in LIM

is CLARENCE BRANDE

ERG,

618 Mill Street, Lockland, Chio.

Bureau (Eng

N3) (RM)

3 - Cincinna;

(1 - 157-166)

ENCLOSURE

(1 - 105-1139)

(1 - 105-

Minutenento

M964

JTP :gab

(6)

Approved:

P5173

Sent

"Per

1)

1 Speciái Agent in Charge

DocId: 32122256 Page 2

ENR 2321

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

CI 157-166

He furnished information to SA JOHN T. PRYOR and SA BENNY J.

CANNY on 2/5/64, and to SA JOHN I. PRYOR on. 2/6/64.

CIVE

Tie copfsof IHM has been furnished Secret Service

and the Treasury Department locally, due to their interests

in racial matters involving possible violence and the illegal

possession of automatic weapons.

was taken into custody by the Cincinnati

Police Department on 2/4/64, at which time he was

to be

charged with Grand Larceny. Rather than charge

with

Grand Larceny, the Police Department offered him an

opportunity to become an informant.

•accepted this

opportunity, and among the information he furnished was

information concerning the guns as contained in this LHM.

made it crystal clear that if information

concerning these guns got back to CLIFF PRINCE, Lewis

-Road, Amelia, Ohio,

might be "taken care of" by friends

of PRINCE in

Newport,

Kentucky.

stated PRINCE is engaged as a "fence" and

he believes PRINCE is capable of taking care of him

fatally in the event information concerning these guns

is returned to PRINCE.

as an informant for the Police Department,

is making efforts to locate these reported weapons. We are

maintaining close liaison with the Police Department in

connection with this matter to insure protection of Bureau

interests and to determine if there is any violation within

our jurisdiction.

Cincinnati has no concrete information that any

automatic weapons are presently located in the Cincinnati

territory to be used by racial organizations.

Bureau will be kept advised of any pertinent information.

OTHER 4

- 2

HW 45173 DocId:32122256 Page 3

---

