# docid-32989540

## Page 1

File #:

62-10-1163957

Serial Scope:

1083, 1086, 1125, 1134, 1153

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

2107 Notel. Cased: NU 55083 Date: 11-28-2017

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA# NA

155089 IncT: 72909540-Fate 1

---

## Page 2

HOLSTUDY/SENSTUDS "JUNE"

CLOSURE FORM

RE - HOUSTUDY 62-116404-

OR.

SENSTUDY 62-116395- 1153 EBE

THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE IS AN OUTGOING MEMO/LETTER TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL DATED 11-28-75 FURNISHING COPIES OF FBI

DOCUMENTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST(S) MADE BY EITHER THE U.S.

SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES ON INTELLIGENCE. SINCE THE

ATTACHED XEROX COPY/COPIES ARE "JUNE" MAIL, IT/THEY HAS/HAVE

BEEN REMOVED FROM THE ENCLOSURE TO THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE

AND IS TO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE AS INDICATED BELOW:

IMOR 6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIZ

DATE 12-1-00 BY SP2AM FE

THIS ENCLOSURE MATERIAL IS IO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE DE

HOUSTUDY

62-116464-

OR

SENSTUDY®

62-116395-1153 EBF

Encouri

File

HH 55083 DocId: 32989540

Page 2

---

## Page 3

.

HOUSTUDY SENSTUDY "JUNE" ENCLOSURE FORM

RE - HOUSTUDY

62-116464-

OR

SENSTUDY 62-116395-1/34

attached

THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE IS AN OUTGOING MEMO/LETTER TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL DATED/1-17-75

• FURNISHING COPIES OF FBI

DOCUMENTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST(S) MADE BY EITHER THE U.S.

SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES ON INTELLIGENCE. SINCE THE

ATTACHED XEROX COPY/COPIES ARE "JUNE" MAIL, IT/THEY HAS/ HAVE

BEEN REMOVED FROM THE ENCLOSURE TO THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE

AND IS IO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE AS INDICATED BELOW:

#MDR16

ATT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIEIE

DATE LA 1100 BY SPLAIN TE

¡CHIS ENCLOSURE MATERIAL IS TO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE DE

HOUSTUDY

62-116464-

OR

SENSTUDY

62-116395-113Y

attached

HW 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SSC LETTER 11/7/75

ERBAL REQUEST IN SUPPISMEN

O13/7/75 REQUES

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Retain

541134

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SE

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.

FEDERAL BUREAL OF INVESTIGAlION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

In Repiy, Please Refer 10

File No.

(IS)

100-442529

April 28, 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ALTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE-IN

RACIAL MATTERS

DECTASSIFIED BY SE? ALM JIG

12-1-00

A technical surveillance was instituted on the

neadquarters of the southern Christian Leadership Conterence,

330 Auburn Avenue, Northeast, Atlanta,

1963. The Southern Christian Leadership Conference is a

racial-type organization headed by Martin Luther King, Jr.

This technical surveillance has provided considerable

valuable intelligence information concerning communist influence

well as the

which king has

s taken in opposition to the United States, foreign

policy concerning Vietnam.

Some examples include

the following:

Informatzon has been turnished, retating to contacts

stanley David Levinody dust wack co ways austro de sent as

blackwels This information Indicates- the

extent of the influence being exerted on King by these individuala

with

present and former.communist-backgrounds..taformation, thus

obtained reveals..thempart these.individuals.playin.mportant

policy-making decisions herelative tons organization

assistance which they render King in his writings and speecnes

concernin Facial hatters, and the advice and counsel they give

King in his declarations concerning-United States foreign-pot

Unless you instruct to the contrary, this technical

surveillance will be continued for an additional six months.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATERN truly yours,

Unetchorized Visclosure

Subject/to Criminal Sanctions

6-22-

13

53 JUL 1 4 1966

Jol

n Edgar

Hoover

Director

16657/00-44

5

17-1

SICKET

GOU C24L 73 1966

eatonatic

soressin ention

50342

I than then Cort gs stroll

Descatesa, putate

i the lift pose aren

How illins al fossil

others.

HH 55083 DooId:32989540 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SEC LEITER

11m7-75

ITEK

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

fettin

ser 1134

NN 55083 DocId: 32989540

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SHITIUM

= GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

'Memorandum

Toisón -

Belmont

Mohr -k

Casper -

Callahan

"Conrad

DeLoacht

Uro

Mr. Belmont

• FROM

c. A. Evans

DATE: 2-6-64

Em DR16

ASSE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UECLASSLEI

DATE 12/H/ DOBYSP2ALK

in.

Trộtter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Sandy -

SUBJECT:

DR. MAPTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

INFORMATION CONCERNING

Reference is made to Mr. DeLoach's memorandum of 2-5-64

in which he reported a conversation he had had with Ed Guthman of

the Department concerning letters to members of Congress dealing

with Martin Luther King.

In this connection the Director has

inquired as to my activities with regard to clearance of such

communications.

The only letter which I had anything to do with clear-

ing was one from the Attorney General to Senator Richard B.

Russell dated 11-1-63.

The circumstances surrounding this

are

as follows:

Shortly after noon on 11-1-63 Assistant

Attorney

General (AAG) Marshall furnished to me the Department's fiie of

correspondence with Senator Russell concerning the association

of King with Hunter Pitts O'Dell.

A proposed letter to Senator

Russell for the Attorney General's (AG) signature dated 11-1-63

attached. Marshall said he and the AG had discussed the

proposed letter with the President.

Marshall asked us to con-

sider the language in the proposed letter to Senator Russell to

determine if it would jeopardize our informant or otherwise

interfere with our investigation of communist matters.

}

Since time was of the essence I took the proposed letter

to Mr. Belmont's office and discussed it with him. We concluded

that there were definite objections to the letter as it was writtent

as it specifically referred to sensitive sources available to the

FBI.

A memorandum was prepared recommending changes in the letter.

(This memorandum is attached.)

After the Director's approval had been secured, Marshall

was recontacted and the undesirable language discussed with him.

He said he could see our point but since the letter had been dis-

cussed with the President he thought we should go up together to

Enc

" I.

rEG-

3:

THEC COPY

ME.

1ohr

DeLoach

no C. Sullivan

A PAR 3,1961

CAE: tjar

(0).16

2 MAR 5

HH 55083 Do0Id:32989540

Ween repared in response on

5,190-3-116

and is not foll ditti

nore Committee.

20090 Criama

'e cal the contert raci

ot be do lot to line per by

net without

the express approvat of

the FBI

Page

7

!

---

## Page 8

Memorandum to MT. Belmont

RE: DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, TR.

see the AG about it. We did this. After the AG read the letter

as changed he said he was not certain it would accomplish its

purpose. He called the President and told him what had happened.

Marshall and the AG tried to redraft a letter which would be in

line with our observations. Each draft after written was dis-

cussed with the Fresident telephonically by the iG and none of

the drafts were satisfactory to the Fresident. He thereafter

decided that an innocuous letter saying nothing of substance

Should be sent to Senator Russell which letter should be delivered

I by AAG Marshall and me. At the time the letter was delivered

the Senator was to be furnished orally by Marshall with detailed

'information as to Martin Luther King's activities. I was merely

to assure the Senator as to the sensitive position of our informant

and the fact that information from this informant of a continuing

nature was vital to the country's welfare.

After the iG had left

the city Deputy AG Katzenbach was substituted for Burke Marshall

as "atzenbach linew the Senator.

in appointment to see the

Senator was made for 5:00 p.m.,

11-1-63. At this meeting Katzenbach

furnished the Senator with information concerning King and his

communist connections.

It was unnecessary for me to say anything

at this conference other than to confirm Katzenbach's statement

about the sensitiveness of our source.

The Senator indicated

satisfaction with the explanation given to him by Katzenbach and

said that he did not intend to make any speech on the floor of the

Senate about this.

On my return to the Bureau that afternoon I prepared a

memorandum on this contact which is attached.

HH 55083

DooId:32989540

Page 8

in i see

---

## Page 9

Mr. Tolson

Mr = Belmont

r. Mohr _ K

tie Casper -

February 5, 1964

Mr. Callahan

"MOR

MR. MOHR:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINM

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIPO

DATE 1214/003X5P ZAL

Mr. Contadze

Mr. DeLoach

Evan's

Mr. Gale

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

INFORMATION CONCERNING

MI. Rosen

V.

MEST

n bank

Mr Tavel -

The Atlanta Division has received information indicating Mr. Trotter -

that a reporter by the name of Cleghorn, who writes for the Atlanta

Tele. Room -

Journal and also is a free-lancer for the Saturday Evening Post,

Miss Holmes

is doing an article for the Saturday Evening Post on Dr. Martin

Miss Gandy -

Luther King. A memorandum, from Mr. Sullivan to Mr. Belmont

dated February 4, 1964, reflected this fact inasmuch as the Atlanta!

Division had written in to tip off the Bureau that Cleghorn might be in contact with

FBI Headquarters. Cleghorn apparently has information concerning King's

association not only with Hunter Pitts-@'Dell but additionally with Stanley Levin

Guthman came over to see me February 4, 1964,

at 4 PM.

He stated

that he had been tipped off by Schanke (phonetic) of the Saturday Evening Post

that Cleghorn was preparing an article on Dr. Martin Luther King and that the article

would expose King's connections with the Communist Party. Guthman stated he was

quite concerned inasmuch as it appeared there had been a leak from the FBI in

connection with this matter.

He told me that the Attorney General had been most

I hopeful that there would be no "leaks" concerning King. Guthman quickly added that he

and the Attorney General, of course, knew that King was no good and that King

actually did have communistic connections as well as the fact that King was morally

bad. In a very apologetic tone of voice, Guthman added that the Attorney General's

record concerning King was perfectly clean and that no exposure of King could have

any reaction whatsoever against the Attorney General.

I told Guthman he had raised several points that should be straightened

out. I mentioned that there had been no leaks from the FBI concerning Dr. Martin

Luther King, however, Congressmen had made speeches concerning King's background

and there had been a number of articles in newspapers. I mentioned that the Attorney

General's connections with King were none of our business, however, I could understand

why Guthman might be somewhat perturbed inasmuch as the Attorney General had made

public statements before the Congress which indicated king had no communistig.

connections.

-ing

REC- 53' ENCLOSURE

1uAy

Guthman stated that he'wanted to repeat once again that an éxposure

fof King would not hurt the Attorney General in any way. He stated his only interest,

and the Attorney General's only interest, in keeping information concernine Kin; Out

of the newspapers, was because both he and the Attorney General felt that FBI sourees

might be unduly exposed. I made no comment to this, however, cerainly did not

believe Guthman,

I - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Sullivan

fine, de viewere. e

' Thanting the mi.

I - Mr. Evans

1 - Mr. M. A. Jones

CDD:ejr (6)

Thia document is urared in mesonse to noh rolest and is net for espit

Ence Tage Rist croo

1 20 870

WH 55083 DocId: 32989540 Pade

age gie cupress annoul of the FSt :

---

## Page 10

100TA49

Informal Memo to Mr.

Mohr

Re: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2/5/64 (

7411.

Guthman told me he had no proof whatsoever that the FBI had furnished /

intormation to the newspapers concerning King. He stated that obyiously the

Department had not leaked any information inasmuch as only four individuals in

the Department, the Attorney General, Katzenbach, Assistant Attorney General Miller

and Guthman, were the only ones who knew of King's connections with Stanley

Levinson. I told Guthman that Burke Marshall undoubtedly knew of such connections

inasmuch as I believe he had talked to King. Guthman admitted this was true.

From the tone of Guthman's entire remarks, it would appear he had

two thoughtsin mind without actually stating such thoughts.

These thoughts were

(1) that the Attorney General is most anxious that information concerning King not

be released; and (2) that the Attorney General's connections with King, and his

defensive statements concerning King to the Congress in Civil Rights hearings,

could certainly injure the Attorney General's political chances for the future.

I made it a point to tell Guthman before he left that the Department was,

of course, very close to the Saturday Evening Post, particularly in view of the

deliberate leaks of information to the Saturday Evening Post on the Cassini and

Valachi matters. I told Guth man that if the Saturday Evening Post had obtained

information concerning King, it would appear that they might have received such

information from the same sources where they had gotten their previous facts.

Guthman reacted to this quite anxiously and stated all this may be true, however,

under no circumstances would they give any publication the facts concerning King.

In a very hurt tone of voice, he told me once again the Attorney General was not worried

about what an exposure of King could do to him. He stated he and the Attorney General

are only

Following my conversation with the Director at approximately 10 AM

this morning, after the Director had talked with the Attorney General, I called Gunman

and told him he apparently had misquoted my conversation with him of last night.

I asked Guthman if he had told the Attorney General, in quoting me, that I had been

I'quite concerned about a letter the Attorney General had written in which he defended

Martin Luther King. " I told Guthman I had not mentioned any letter in my conversation

with him. Guthman replied that the Attorney General had gotten all mixed up in his

conversation with the Director. Guthman admitted I made no reference to any letter.

He also admitted I had not indicated that I was "quite concerned" in referring to the

Attorney General. Guthman explained the basis of the Attorney General's call to tie

Director by stating that he and Burke Narshall had gone over to see the Attorney General

and while in his office had mentioned the information which apparently has been

accumuiated by the Atlanta. Georgia, reporter.

In explaining to the Attorney General,

Githinan stared he toid the Attorrey

Generai he had discussed this matter witn me

last night and that irom the tone of my remarks, Guth man understood that (l) any

exposure of King might possibly jeopardize FBI sources; and (2) any exposure of King

¡ might react publicly against the Attorney General inasmuch as the Attorney General

- 2 -

MH 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Informal Memo to Mr. Mohr

Re: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2/5/64

had defended King before the Congress. I told Guthman my remarks to him had

not meant to imply any potential embarrassment whatsoever to the Attorney General

and that I had brought the Attorney General's name into the conversation only because

of the many newspaper articles which had been written quoting the Attorney General

and his defense of King. Guthman stated that the Attorney General was very fond

of me, and that he and the Attorney General, though they would not be around much

longer, felt their relations with my office had been oi the closest nature. He stated

the Attorney General did not under any circumstances believe that my remarks had

implied possible potential embarrassment but the Attorney General had called the

Director merely to keep the record straight.

Guthman referred once again to the so-called "letter" the Attorney

General had written concerning King. He admitted once again this matter did not

come up in our conversation last night. He stated there had been a letter, however,

as a result of the Attorney General's appearance before the Magnuson Committee in

the Senate. This occurred at the time of the Attorney General's appearance concerning

Civil Rights legislation. Senator Monroney had questioned the Attorney General as

to King's communistic connections, according to Guthman. The Attorney General

promised to write Senator Monroney a letter. Guthman stated that such a letter had

been prepared and had been couched in a very careful language. He mentioned that

the letter had been cleared by Assistant Director Evans and had then been delivered

to Senator Monroney. He stated that following delivery of this letter, either Katzenbach

or Burke Marshall along with Mr. Evans, had orally briefed Senators Russell and

Monroney regarding King's communistic connections.

FACTS FROM BUFILES:

Senators Monroney and Magnuson wrote the Director in early July,

1963, inquiring about the current racial agitation and allegations that King and other

civil rights leaders had subversive affiliations.

The letter from Senator Monroney

was referred to the Attorney General on July 17, 1963, with the Senator being so

advised on the same date. In the communication to the Attorney General, a summary

of the communist association of King was set forth, including the influence which

Stanley Levinson, Communist Party member, had with King and Levinson's alleged

statement thatl"King is a whole-hearted Marxist..") On July 18, 1963, the letter

trom Senator Mauson was relerred to the Attorney General alEwit similar.

letter from Congressman Jeffrey Cohelan. Sailed

No record was located in Bureau files to indicate that the Attorney

General or anyone in the Department contacted us regarding what information should

be supplied to the Senators and Congressman relative to King. Mr. Evans has declared

that he most certainly did not clear any letter written to the Senators or the

Congressman un tiis topic.

1W 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 11

-=

---

## Page 12

Informal Memo to Mr. Mohr

Re: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2/5/64

On July 26, 1963, newspapers throughout the country reported that

Senator Monroney had released the contents of a letter to him from Attorney General

Kennedy stating there is "no evidence" that King or any of the other top leaders of

the civil rights groups is a communist or communist controlled. The letter revealed

the Attorney General based his statement "on all available information from the FBI

and other sources. " This letter was dated July 23, 1963. A similar letter

apparently also was sent to Senator Magnuson.

On July 27, 1963, Senator Russell of Georgia wrote the Director

/ inquiring about much the same matter. This letter also was referred to the Attorney

General under date of July 31, 1963. On November 1, 1963, Assistant Attorney

General Burke Marshall contacted Mr. Belmont's Office relative to the letter from

Senator Russell and a subsequent letter from the Senator to the Attorney General

vigorously complaining about not having received an answer to the earlier

communication. A proposed reply to Senator Russell over the Attorney General's

signature was provided and Mr. Belmont expressed objections to the wording,

particularly since it would jeopardize a most sensitive source. Mr. Evans conferred

with the Attorney General and Mr. Marshall later on 11-1-63 and it was determined

that the draft of the letter to Russell had been approved by the President. The draft

was rephrased three times and each draft was reje ctedby the President who finally

instructed that an innocuous communication be sent to the Senator and delivered

personally by Mr. Marshall and Mr. Evans with Mr. Marshall to orally brief the

Senator. Subsequently on 11-1-63, Deputy Attorney General Katzenbach and

‹ Mr. Evans delivered the communication to Senator Russell and Mr. Katzenbach

briefed him about King. Mr. Evans merely verified that a sensitive source was

involved.

An interesting parallel to the situation occurred on August 1, 1963,

when the Attorney General gave Mr. Evans a report submitted by our New York Office

on July 22, 1963, on King asking that it be resubmitted to him with a cover memorandum

detailing exact evidence to support a statement contained therein to the effect that

King had been "described as a confirmed Marxist-Leninist as of June 1963." He told

Mr. Evans that if this report got up to the Hill at this time he would be impeached. He

Stated Assistant Attorney General Marshall had reviewed the entire report and stated

I there was nothing new concerning King's alleged communist sympathies and that it

Intelligeno

HH 55083 DocId:32989540 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Informal Memo to Mr. Mohr

Re: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

2/5/64

was the timing of the report and its possible misuse which concerned him. The

statement the Attorney General objected to previously had been furnished to him on

several occasions including the letter to him on July 17, 1963, forwarding to him the

letter from Senator Monroney. The Attorney General was advised by memorandum

of August 2, 1963, that "the description of_King was-made by-Stanley-Levinson first

in 1962 and again in 1963."

RESPECTFULLY,

C. D. DE LOACH

intitle

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540

Page

13

---

## Page 14

"OPTINAL CORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

NT

TO

FROM

Mr. Belmont

C. A. Evans

SUBJECT:

DATE: February 7, 1964

ALT INFORNATION CONTACOS 6

PREIN IS UNGHASSINIE

ATE 24/00 BYSP2AM ITE

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

natonrad -

Lockdach

Swans -

Gole

hoses

& Sullivah :

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tole. Room

Holmes -

Gandy _

Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall was contacted last

evening on his return from the Hill and again informed that the decision as

to whether he is to see Martin Luther King again to warn him about

communist efforts is one for Marshall to make. It was further pointed

out that any detailing of specifics as to meetings might well endanger our

confidential sources, but it he felt he had to name one definite meeting he

could refer to the one at the airport in New York. Marshall said he recalled

this one generally and asked about the specifics. He was told that this was

contained in a memorandum sent to the Attorney General, with a copyfor him,

dated November 26, 1963.

Marshall said that he still hadn't made up his mind as to

whether or not to see King.

He noted he had warned him before, which

admonition King had obviously ignored, so Marshall didn't know if any

further warning would be effective. He said if he decided to see King he

would, of course, advise us as to the results of the meeting.

CAE:Vap

(10)

I piece

1 - Mr. Mohr

1 - Vir. DeLoach

1 - Mir. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Rosen

1. - Mr. Baumgardner

1 - Mr. Bland

10137

REG- 34.

HECORDE COPY CIND EAT!

10 FEB 18 1964

•скої

My EART

32G

A50 10

is document is prepared in response to

your request andes not fo

pret ripe.

raile lour Commitice.

Its use la trital to offi

your Can ce cal the conter man ni a disclose to unctien

Bell person

N 55085' DodId 329865 without ine express approval of the FBI.

---

## Page 15

ORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERI

INT

Memorandum

TO

FROM :

Mr. Belmont

C. A. Evans

DATE: February 5, 1964

ATTS INFORMAIION CONTAINEI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINIS

SUBJECT:

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, NEGRO QUESTION

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Tolson,

Belmont

Nahi a

"Casper -

yallahan

conrad -

#DeLoach

_vons -

Gale

THOS

Tajos

Protter -

Tale. Room

FEE

MH 55083

Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall of the Civil Rights

Division telephoned. He said he had two matters he wanted to discuss.

The first of these concerns a scheduled visit to the Department of

Justiçe this week of Reese Cleghorn, a free-lance writer who has written

one article on Mar in Luther King for the "Saturday Evening Post" and who

has been authorized by this magazine to write another article, also on King.

Marshall was aware of the fact that Cleghorn allegedly has information con-

cerning King's association with Stanley David Levison, a secret member of

the Communist Party. Marshall indicated that he did not intend to furnish

Cleghorn with any information about Martin Luther King's alleged communist

connections but that if he developed anything at all with regard to Cieghorn's

source of information, ke would pass this along to us for our information.

(According to information developed by our Atlanta Office on February 4, 1964,

Cleghorn had in his possession what appeared to be a blind memorandum

containing information as to Levison's Communist Party connections.)

The second matter which Marshall discussed related to Marshall's

previous warning to King to avoid any connection with the communist element

and particularly the need to avoid any relationship with Levison. Marshall said

King has obviously ignored this admonition. He is currently considering

whether he should warn King again because of the reports furnished to him by

the Bureau showing a continued relationship between King and Levison. In

considering this matter, Marshall observed that he had told King once, and

if King were going to go ahead and make a fool of himself Marshall didn't know

that the Department of Justice should try and prevent it. On the other side, he

pointed out that King is obviously headed for trouble and this coula seriously

Waffect the Negro movement directed at securing legitimate civil rights.

1 - Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. DeLoach

I - Mir. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Rosen

REG 34

1 - Mr. Baumgardner /06 - 5-11.

€...

1 - Mr. Bland

;."!

this donment no uncared in responsio

more Can mad the content mea

Dooid:329895482 Aresisproval of the FBI .

10 FEB L8 1964

1014

12.

HERECORDED COPY

---

## Page 16

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Marshall recognized that the decision as to whether to talk to

King again is rightfully one for him to make personally. He asked for

advice, however, as to whether, if he decided to go ahead and talk to King,

this would endanger our operations in any way, he having noted that much

of the information in our reports originated with highly confidential sources.

Marchall was informed that we would certainly consider his request and be

in touch with him.

In the absence of Assistant Director Sullivan, this matter was

discussed with Inspector Sizoo. It was noted that there is a limited amount

of information concerning King's association with Levison which did not

originate from technical sources. For example, King met under clandestine

circumstances with Levison at the airport in New York. This could have been

observed by any number of people. On the other hand, much of our informa-

tion as to the relationship between King and Levison originates from technical

sources. This has been disseminated to the Department with the exception

of the information developed concerning King's sex activities.

ACTION TO BE TAKEN:

Marshall should be told that a decision as to whether he is to

see Martin Luther King again is one for him to make. It should be pointed

out to him, however, that any detailing of specifics as to meetings might

well endanger our confidential sources.

However, if Marshall feels he has to

name one definite meeting, he can refer to the one at the airport at New York.

If approved, Marshall will be informed in line with the above.

l concur. We must

na ga circums par.

HY 55083. DocId: 32989540. Page 16

---

## Page 17

HOUSTUDYASENSTUDY "JUNE" ENCLOSURE FORM

RE - HOUSTUDY

OR

• SENSTUDY

62-116464-

62-116395-1125

Enclosutile

THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE IS AN OUTGOING MEMO/LETTER TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL DATED/ -6-15 FURNISHING COPIES OF EBI

DOCUMENTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST(S) MADE BY EITHER THE U.S.

SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES ON INTELLIGENCE. SINCE THE

ATTACHED XEROX: COPYZCOPIES ARE "JUNE" MAIL, IT/THEY HAS/HAVE

BEEN REMOVED FROM THE ENCLOSURE TO THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE

AND IS TO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE AS INDICATED BELOW:

FMDRIS

ARE INFORMATION CONTAINES

HERBIN IS UNOLASSIFIE

-.--

THIS ENCLOSURE MATERIAL IS IO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE OF

HOUSTUDY

62-116464-

OR

SENSTUDY

62-276395-1/25 EBF

Hut entansend 19411

AH 55083 DocId: 32989540

Page 17

---

## Page 18

UNITED STATES GOVER

*ENT

Memorandur

TO

Mr. Belmont

FROM .:

SUBJECT:

C. A. Evans

HUNTER PITTS O'DELL

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

INTERNAL SECURITY ACT OF 1950

DATE: August 20, 1963

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach.

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivar*=

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy

HEREIN IS USCLASSIFIM

Today the Attorney General asked if we would continue to

keep him closely informed of information received relative to O'Dell's'

contact with Martin Luther King. He had specific reference to our

letter of August 2, 1963.

It appears that the Attorney General is receiving conflicting

advice within the Department proper as to whether there is sufficient

evidence of a continuing contact between King and O'Dell to justify some

action. The Civil Rights Division has expressed the thought that nothing

need be done by the Department. On the other hand, Andrew Oehmann,

the Attorney General's Executive Assistant, has counseled him that in

his judgment there is ample evidence there is a continuing relationship

which Martin Luther King is trying to conceal.

ACTION:

We have going over to the Attorney General today a memorandum

bringing him up to date in this matter. We will continue to prepare such

memoranda to the Attorney General as additional information is developed.

NY. office alerted

1 - Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. DeLoach

•1 - Mr. Sullivan

to Keep Bucca

adried e contacti

IX:2

CAE:vap

(10)

REC- 3

72 30:1

* 43,

=5!1!!=

Aar 25.963

This danced cared i reass to noe meet red eat for gangme

and to me tond sai

WW 55083 DocId:32999540 Page 18

---

## Page 19

- *UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

Vr. Belmont

C..A. Evans

HUNTER PITTS O'DELL;

STANLEY LEVISON;

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

THE NEGRO MOVEMENT

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

asser -

Allahar

Conrad -

DeLoach!

Evans _

DATE: September 20,

1963

Gale

Rosen k

Weis

Sullivan -

¡Tavel -

Trotter -

8-1

dire

8-1,8 st

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

ATI INFORKAIION CONTAINED #MDR/6

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINIEN

BYSP-

DATE

Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall telephoned and

advised that on instructions of the Attorney General he wanted to clear

with us the rough draft of a memorandum which he was going to send

to the Bureau, As a matter of fact, the Attorney General has approve fathe

the rough draft contingent upon our approval.

The proposed memorandum, a copy of which is attached,

relates to Hunter Pitts O'Dell and Stanley Levison and action taken to

• advise Dr. Martin Luther King and his immediate associates of the

communist activities on the part of O'Dell and Levison. Marshall states

that some time ago it was not felt wise, in view of the position of the FBI -

informant, for Marshall to say that he knew O'Dell to be under communist

control. Instead, he informed Dr. King and two of his immediate

associates that O'Dell was believed by many people to have had commtnist.

connections and his association with Dr. King's organization was not

in its best interest.

Subsequently, on June 22, 1963, according to Marshall's

proposed memorandum, he brought this matter very explicitly to

Dr. King's attention. Later that same date, both the Attorney General

and the President, separately, strongly urged Dr. King that there should

be no further connection between O'Dell and the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference (SCLC). Thereafter, the Attorney General and

Marshall received copies of a letter dated July 3, 1963, from Dr. King

to O'Dell. In this letter King makes reference to a resignation which

O'Dell submitted some months ago which was accepted because of the

SCIC's firm policy that no communist or communist sympathizer would

be on the staff. Dr. King's letter continues by noting an investigation

2- 50 15

_Enclosure

1 - Mr. Rosen 2 v1

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Bland

€ 607 8 1523

. XEROX

OCT 9 1953

CAE:vap

-can: come

marn, he pianised to une licrical person

WH 55083 DocId: 3298954d "page le capress anno

it of the ral.

50g

PY FILED IN DE..

and

UNRECORDED

---

## Page 20

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

our it i have anale to diever any present

connections with the Communist Party by O'Dell.

King further tells O'Dell that the situation is such that the

organization cannot even afford the risk of impressions about communist

inspiration and therefore O'Dell's temporary resignation is being made

permanent.

Mr. Marshall's proposed memorandum also advises that he

informed Dr. King on June 22, 1963, Stanley Levison was a secret

member of the Communist Party. This action was taken on direction

of the Attorney General and the President. Marshall had previously

warned Dr. King about any association with Levison. This was the

first indication given him of firm information Levison was under

communist control.

As a matter of background, our early intormation concerning

the communist connections involved here came from one at our tWo

most highly.placed.communist.informants. (NY694-S*). To protect this

most valuable informant we insisted Levison and O"Dell"not be informed by KinG

we had positive information of their communist connections.

Subsequently, with the passage of time so that the risk to

the informant was not jeopardized, the Director in a personal

conversation with the Attorney General on June 17, 1963, agreed

Dr. Martin Luther King could be informed that he should get rid of

Levison and O'Dell because they are members of the Communist Party.

It was on the basis of this advice from the Director that action was taken

by the Attorney General and the President.

ACTION TO BE TAKEN:

While Mr. Marshall's proposed memorandum does not spell

out the sequence of events here in detail, his summary is nevertheless

accurate and it is therefore believed we should inform Mr. Marshall

that he should feel free, of course, to submit the memorandum as he

drafted it. If approved, Mir. Marshall will be so advised telephonically.

!

- 2 -

WH 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Form No. 6.1

(Ed. 3-9-68),

FIOm

HE ATTORNEY GENERAL

Depusy Aliorsey General...

Solicitor Gereral

Executive Assisiant to the Attorney General.••

resistane Mitorney General, Antitrust •

Assistant Arorncy General,

Tax ..

Assistant Attorney General,

Civil

Assistant Attorney General,

Lands

Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal..

Assistant Attorney General,

Legal Counsel.

Assistant Attorney General,

Internal Security.

Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights

Administrative Assistant Attorney General.

DirectoI, FBI......

Director, Bureau of Prisons..

Director, Office of Alien Property..

Commissioner, Immigration and Naturalization.

Pardon Attorney .........

Parole Board

..... ... . . .

Board of Immigration Appeals

Special Assistant for Public Information

Records Administration Office ..

For the attention of Burke Marshall

I think this is fine, but before we send it, I

would want it cleared with Courtney. Will you

REMARKS: handle this?

RFK

".".

!:. 142

AT THERE TMOR 16

LOS CORFIAINED

50612-4-00. 0758-2 ALM LETE

1742

This doment is prerared in response to your remest and is unt for dissemi-

pritin, n.

Tara de lit in mill aprictis by

wendio inion quison

100

HH 55083 DooId:32989540 Page Page-21-=--

-355716-770

---

## Page 22

ASSISTANT, 19EY GROCAM

12 September 1963

MINORINDUX TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

Attached is a draft

aesosardua on Hunter Pitts O'Dell

and the most recent documents.

Is could be expanded in detail but

contains the essentials.

I did

nor sefer to the warning Harris

Kofford gave to Dr. King at our

suggestion in 1961 while Harris

was at the White House because

I do not know

exactly what was

said to King.

I - Will You ill ter

I out it I reall be t

PERSONAL &

clined be

CONFIDENTIAL

#MDR16

IT OR ETCRAMON CONTAINED

3YL30T IS THONGUED

OFFICE DF TIE

RECEIVED

SEP. 121963

MITORNEY GENERAL

This dorment is prepared in resporge to your request and is not for dessemi-

ration risis n0i Committee sir.

I's are is lina:

100-559114-270

HH 55083 DocId:32989540 Page 22meLherrew

---

## Page 23

DRAFT - 9/12/63

TO :

FROM:

• SUBJECT:

J. Edgar Hoover

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

Burke

Marshall

•Assistant Attorney General

Hunter Pitts O'Dell

HMDRIG

ALL FBI INFORIATION CONTAINED

BRAIN IS UNGLASHIN

AN 25100 BY SP 2 ALM AFT

This relates to your letterhead memorandum

of September

5 to the Attorney General, relating

to Hunter

13

Pitts

O'Dell'and therelated prior memorandia.

I appreciate

yourhaving sent copies of these to me.

This matter had been brought to the

attention

of DI. King some time ago by me, but in accordance with

conversations which the Attorney General had with Courtney

nel without lui empices

Evans, it was not felt to be wise in view of the sources

of the Bureau's information to state that I knew O'Dell

to be under Communist control at any time.

I did inform

your Counter the cater fol

rating argins

DI. King and two members of his organization -- Reverend

Thas incument is mrepared an respruse to your remest

Its arse, 88

Andrew Young and Reverend Wyatt Walker -- some time ago -

that since O'Dell was believed by many people to have had

Communist connections, his association with their

organization was not in the best interests of the organiza-

tion.

=

At that time, inconclusive steps were taken

to remove O'Dall, and his job with the southern Christian

Uncinorized peison

and is not for disser.

10ü-34.üle-

Page

23

---

## Page 24

- 2-

Leadership Conference

was changed. In response to direct

questions whether I had hard evidence of O'Dell's

Communist connections, however, I replied that. I was not

in a position to give any.

Following further conversations with Mr. Evans

in June, however, I brought the matter to the attention

of DI. King very explicitly in my office on the morning

of June 22 prior to a scheduled meeting which Dr. King

had with the President. This was done at the direction

of the Attorney General. Later that morning both the

Attorney General and the President separately strongly

uIged DI. King thatthere should be no further connection

between O'Dell and the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference.

DI. King stated that the connection' would be

ended. Thereafter, theAttorney General and I both received

copies of the attached letter, dated July 3, 1963,

from DI. King to O'Dell.

On the same occasion, I also informed Di.King

that our information was that Stanley Levison was a secret

member of the Communist Party. This was also done

after conversations with Mr. Evans prior to the meeting

with Dr. King, and was done at the direction of the Attorney

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540

Page 24

---

## Page 25

* 3-

General and the President. Prior to that time, again

based upon talks between the Attorney General and Mr.

Evans at which I was present, it had been decided that it

was not in the best interest of the United States to

inform DI. King that we had any firm information that

Levison was under Communist control. I had,

however,

on a previous occasion, warned DI. King about any association

with levison, basing the warning upon doubts about levison's

loyalty to the United States.

• I thought you should have this additional informa-

tion for your file.

BM

---

## Page 26

to Attornoy Corozal

Seytender 5, 1963

Director, fBI

TONI SON LAINED

BURIEL PITIS O'DEL

INTEITAL SECURITY - C

INTERNAL, SECURITY ACE CE 1930

In my letter dated August 29, ISCu, 19101×24102

was set forth rogarding Junter Disis O'Dell's bossible

associstion tith the Reverend dartin Incher Kaug, JI,

id Informatien regarding Reverend King's statorant

indicating O'Doll, 25 of

June 26, 1965, WaS 10 102505

on Roverend King'a stail.

On August 30, 1903, at 7:25 P.l, O'Ball mas

obsored by fascial

building located at 313 Host 125th Street, Her fors,

Now Yori. O'Doll ronnined in the sailclag in excess

of ono hour, Tho Southern Curiotian Leadership Conferenco

occupies one of the several oftices uhich tre located in

that building.

no will continue to lumish Jou any perthreat

Infossation devoloped

i regardig this nattor.

100-353916

Sw:1 - The Deputy Attorney Genoral

• Iz. Burke Harshall

assistant Attoraoy Conesai

This document is prepared in response to l0e repest sal is unt for dinemi-

nation steina tour. Commutce.

your Committe and the conter: ms

ané a caselsed tu enacthoricen dusvil-

nel without the express approil of the fBI.

30t0m209

---

## Page 27

RN AVE., N. E

, 3, GEORGIA

INº 524-1378

artin Luther King Jr., President

tr.Kug

Soutnern Christian Leauers ip Conference

Wyatt Tee Walker, Executive Director

July 3, 1963

gir

ImOR/6

ALL FBI NORMATION CONTAINED

SEE DISPLAMI

Attorney General Robert Kennedy

Department of Justice

Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Mr. Kennedy:

Jr. King asked me to send you the enclosed copy ol

a letter which he has just sent to Mr. Jack"O'Dell

Sincerely yours,

(Miss) D. McDonald

Secretary

enC

File

BEIGE O

1

RECE: EU

J'l:

s 1852

HH 55083

This inement d

1 We ann 23 Tirin,

Man? Ceili

nel zihout the express approval of the FBI.

DocId: 32989540 Page 27

19-460110278

---

## Page 28

July 3, 1963

•Mr. Jack H.

O'Dell

488 St. Nicholas Avenue

Apartment 5-S

Now York, New York

ALL INFORMATION CONTATUSI

HEREIN' IS UNCLASSINLE

DATED 5.00. BYSPEMIG

Dear Jack:

Several months ago you submitted your resignation pending an

investigation of your alleged affiliation with the Communist

party, as was suggested by an article to this effect in the.

Birmingham and New Orleans newspapers.

We accepted this

temporary resignation because of SCLC's firm policy that no

Communist nor Communist sympathizer can be on our staff or

in our membership. We felt that it was imperative to conduct

an immediate investigation. As you know, we conducted what we

-felt to be a thorough inquiry into these charges and were unable

to discover any present connections with the Communist party on

your part.

The situation in our country is such, however, that any allusion :

to the left brings forth an emotional response which would seem

to indicate that SCLC and the Southern Ereedom Movement are

• Communist inspired. In these critical times we cannot afford to

risk any such impressions. We, therefore, have decided in our

Administrative Committee, that we should request you to make

your temporary resignation permazent.

We certainly appreciate the years of unselfish service which you

have put into our New York Office, and regret the necessity of

your departure. Certainly, yours is a significant sacrifice com-

mensurate with the sufferings in jail and through loss of jobs

under racist intimidation. We all pray for the day when our

sation may be truly the land of the free.

This doerment is premaredien reanonse to your remast unris not for dissemi-

Tra nude trited tanfrilal menecting's by

Dul Cogn:

.?. the count ear nos be discloch to unauthorized persoil-

nel without ine express approval of the FBI.

HW 55083

• Docid: 32989540 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Mr. O'Dell

July 3, 1963

Page Two

""*.

May God bless you and continue to inspire you in the service of

your fellowman.

sincerely yours.

Martin Luther King, JI.

Hi. 55083 DocId: 32989540 : Page •29

---

## Page 30

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540

Page 30

This dommert is prepored' in recpense to your regneet and is not for diescrai-

ration partin nour Committee.

e a the content mai dei i cecolisci to unaccorzed persoi

nel vitict the express approvel of tha FEI .

334 Anburn Aurnue,

Atlanta 3, Grurgia

N.E.

#MORIG

ATZ IGI INFORIMATION CONTAINIO

PERSONAL

JUL

1963

Attorney General Robert Kennedy

Department of Justice

Washington 25, D. C.

MATURATIM

JUL3-'63

GA.

= 05

---

## Page 31

UNI'

D. STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TICE

TYASHINGTON 25, D. C.

In Rejily, Please Refer 10

Tile No.100-1.06670

100-3-116

October 7, 1963

NEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

:#m0R16:

DECTASSIPIED BYSP-JALIALE

0117-5-00

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL NATTERS

Martin Iuther King, Jx. resides at 563 Johnson

Avenue, Northeast, Atlanta, Georgia, and is president oi

the

Southern Christian Leadership Confrrence (SCLC).

The

New York office of the SCLC is locaied at 312 Hest 125th

Street, New York City. He is closely associated with

Stanley Levison, a concealed member of the Communist Party, it

USA.

wo has studied liarxism, believes in it, agrees wiüh it l tuls

bui because of his being a minister of religion does not u.

dare to espouse ii publiclyn

in view of the possible

conmunist influence in the racial situation, it is requested

that authority be granted to place a technical surveillance

o1 King at his current address or at any future address to

i which he may move.

It is further requested that authority be granted

to place a technical surveillance on the SCiC office at the

current New York address or to any other address to which

it may be moved.

Respectfully,

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions •

Directoners

APPROVED

DATE

10/10/6

ENCLOSURE

553122917 5a2554254 PRiam

5 NOV Y

1963

messia 9399

Fineriginn

PET

GROUP 1

Excluded fi'o

downgrading and

declassification

autonaiic.

H₩ 55083.

DocId: 32989540 Page 31

---

## Page 32

/ 84

#+ 4951161114

9343111-8

OPTOrAL tORM NO. 10

UNKÉD STATES GOVERNA

Memorandum

TO

FOM

C. A. Evans

HEEZIN IS UNCLASSIER, SP-2Am/77G

DARE 12/S lOe 8% RATE: October 10, 1963

JUNE

Tolson -

* Belmont

Hohr —

Callahan

eonrad -

/ DeLoach&

YEnS .

Beggits

Tallivar

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

BORES

The Attorney General was contacted at his request this after-

noon. He had before him our memorandum of October 7, 1963, requesting

authority for technical surveillances on Martin Luther King at his residence

at Atlanta and at the office of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

of which he is president,at New York City.

The Attorney General said that he recognized the importance of

this coverage if substantial information is to be developed concerning the

relationship between King and the Communist Party. He said there was no

question in his mind as to the coverage in New York City but that he was

worried about the security of an installation covering a residence in Atlanta,

Georgia. He noted that the last thing we could afford to have would be a

discovery of a wire tap on King's residence.

I pointed out to the Attorney General the jact that a residence

was involved did not necessarily mean there was any added risk because of

the technical nature of the telephone system. He was informed that the

Bureau had had years of experience in this field and that we continually

reviewed our procedures to insure that every measure possible to secure

such installations was taken. It was nevertheless noted that of necessity

we had to deal with established contacts in the telephone company to get the

necessary leased lines, but once again we had procedures which nainimized spr"

the risks to the nth degree.

NOV

1963

After this discussion the Attorney General said he felt we

should go ahead with the technical coverage on King on a trialbasis, and to

continue it if productive results were forthcoming. He said he was certain

that all Bureau representatives involved would recognize the delicacy of this

particular matter and would thus be even more cautious than ever in this

assignment. He asked to be kept advised of any pertinent information

developed regarding King's communist connections.

Enclosure

20.

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Nir. DOnOuR CLOSURE

CADY 23 1943

This document is monared in response to you request

Its men is limited to

2000 C a

sun? the patent care pot be disclosed to a

55083

DocId: 32989540

at mahon the express approval of the FBl .

• is not for

uthorized person-

---

## Page 33

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Our memorandum requesting authority for this surveillance

was signed by the Attorney General and handed to me. It is attached.

'ORIENNAL OF ENCLOSURE

REMOVED FOR DIRECTOR'S OFFICE -

SEE 100-104-670-3596

""po

a Enelosriras

- 2

HH 55083 DocId: 32989540

Pate

37

---

## Page 34

O'HUNAL, FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMNT

Memorandum

TO : :

Mr. Belmont 01315

FROM :

SUBJECT:

Li

C. A. Evans

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS

DATE: October 21, 1963

JUNE

Tolson.

i Behron

Mohr -

Casper -

Cal chan.

Conrad -

& DeLoachk

*Evans -

Gale -

Rosen

sullivan

NC Tavel-

Trotter -

Tele. Rcom

Holmes -

Gandy -

thig

for

ALL INH'UNMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIFO

BYSA-

DATE LO

The Attorney General spoke to ine with reference to pur

memorandum of October 18, 1963, recommending a technical surveillanse

on the office of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference at Atlanta,

Georgia. It is noted that last week the Attorney General authorized

similar coverage on the residence of Martin Luther King, Jr., President

of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.

The Attorney General is apparently still vacillating in his

pofition as to technical coverage on Martin Luther King and his organization,

it being recalled that he had initially suggested such coverage and then

changed his mind and felt it might be inadvisable.

The Attorney General said that he is still uncertain in his own

mind about this coverage. I reminded him of our previous conversation,

wherein he was assured that all possible would be done to insure the security

lof this operation.

The Attorney General advised that he was approving the

October 18, 1963, memorandum but asked that this coverage and that on

King's residence by evaluated at the end of 30 days in light of the results

secured so that the continuance of these surveillances could be determined

at that time.

This will be done.

•10-21-63

The original of our October 18, 1963, memorandum was handed

to me by the Attorney General. It is attached hereto.

,1°*

Enclosure

fi'

sul

di - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Nir. Donohue

C i

CAE:

1 sation

Thas dacument i prepared n' respoisd 363your remest and is not for dissemi-

17 55h83•

DocId: 32989540

Page

34

---

## Page 35

OFFICE OF

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

Country

Specht wes

ATZ MOI INFOROCATION CONTRATMEE

100.

1047!

ENCLCSD2U

HH 55083 DocId:32989540

Page 35

---

## Page 36

¡lONAL CORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

Memorandum

NT

TO

:

MR. BELMONT

FROM :

C. A. EVANS

DATE: October 25, 1963

ME MARRETON TOMATOS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSLINY

DATE LAN5100 BY SPE FLUTE

Tolson

Belmonto

*Mohr -

Casper-e

Callchan

*Conrad

DeLoach

sale

Sall ryatt

• Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

SUBJECT:

COMMUNISM AND THE

NEGRO MOVEMENT

your request and is not for

offirial noceedings

sient to

Its use.

Committer.

The Attorney General telephoned at approximately 10:15 a.m.

the adviscd that he had wried to call the Director who was temporarily nut oi

the received a copy torney ort suate to the Attorney Ten that that me y

communist activities of Martin Luther King. The Attorney General was referring

to the report captioned "Communism and the Negro Movement -- A Current

Analyses, " dated October 16, 1963. There is no question this is the report

to which he is referring, although he persisted on calling it the report on the

communist background of Martin Luther King.

The Attorney General said he would like to know what other

dissemination was made of this report in addition to the Army and the purpose

captor such dissemination. He was obviously irritated. He went on to ask if the

Army got copies of all reports submitted to him. I told the Attorney General that

obviously the Army did not get copies of all reports we sent to him personally,

but that there were hundreds of reports that did go to the Army that did not

„concern matters of sufficient importance to warrant the Attorney General's personal

attention. I pointed out to him that we regularly submitted some type of reports

in matters of current interest under our Internal Security jurisdiction, and that

dissemination of these summaries was made to the military authorities as wel

gas other top governmental officials because of responsibilities they have in this

connection.

aocument

attion orfrico,

The Attorney General asked what responsibilities the Army had in

your Comin

relation to the communist background of Martin Luther King. I told the Attorney

¿General the report went beyond this and that the Army had an interest in communist

activities particularly in relation to racial matters because the military had to be

¿called on if civil disturbances arising out of such matters went beyond the ability

Fof the civilian authorities.

REC-27/UO-3-116-1

This explanation seemed to serve no purpose.

The Attorney General

said he still could not understand why we sent a report to the Army on King's

communist activities. He reiterated his request for information as to the dissemina,

tion of the report in question and the purpose for it. see me es

1 - Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mi..

De Loach-

XErOX

IS NOV

8

1963

1 - Mr. Rosen

CAE: dib

NOV 8 1963

HH 55083 Docta

:32989540

Page 36

INTARO

---

## Page 37

Memoran dum to Mi. Beimont.

..

RE: COMMUNISM AND THE NEGRO MOVEMENT

ACTION TO BE TAKEN:

We are getting together the facts regarding the dissemination

of this report and the basis therefor which will be incorporated in a

memorandum for the Attorney General.

homes tal hand

of her in satra

-

- 2 -

i 1H 55083

DocId: 32989540

; Page 31

---

## Page 38

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10'

• CNITED STATES .GOVI

¿ Memorandum

TO.

Tolson

Belmont ?

1 ! Casper -

conrad.

≤ DeLauch

Evans

/ Roama

FROM:

C. A. Evans

DATE:

11-1-63'

#MOR 16

ALL INFORHACION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS UNCLASSIAIE

DASE 12/5/00 BYSPAALITIES

SUBJECT:

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

THE NEGRO MOVEMENT.

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

Baumigan

ili, three

Assistant"

Attorney General Marshall was contacted witn

reference to the letter which had been drafted to Senator Russell for

the AG's signature. The undesirable language in this letter referring to

•reavest and is not for dissemi-

limited to offiral proceedings by

sensitive FBI sources was discussed with Marshall.

He said that he

see our point hut that since this was the AG's letter which had

already veen discussed with the Presidani, he thought we should ily

to unauthorized

and see the AG about it.

The AG read the letter with the proposed deletions and said he

was not certain that it would accomplish the purpose. : He called the

President and told him that I had come into his office with Burke

Marshall about the letter and objected that it might result in the

disclosure of a very valuable Bureau source.

He read the

revised

letter to the President who was not satisfied.. The Ad and Burko

Marshall then redraited the letter three times.

As each draft was

completed, the AG telephoned the President and read the proposal to

conclusion of the tast tolephone conversations

None oi the drafted letters were apparently acceptable, after the

The AG said the

president had advised that an innocuous letter should be sent to

Senator Russell which should be delivered by Assistant AG Marshall and :

This document is prepared

your Commitee.

and the crotont man!

ne.

At: the time the letter was delivered, Marshall was to furnish

the Senator orally with the detailed information as to the Department's

contacts with Martin Luther King.

I was merely to assure the Senator.!

as to the sensitive position of our informant and the fact that

information from this informant of a continuing nature was vital to

the country's velfare.

After the AG left for Boston, apparently as a result of

nation. ortsirle

your Conna'' e

further instructions from the President, it was decided Deputy iG

*Katzenbach would be substituted for Burke. Marshallas Katzenbach knew

Sthe Senator. An appointment with the.Senator was- made for 5:00 P.M.,

On arrival at Senator Russell's Office, he received us

cordially. Katzenbach delivered the letter to him, thereafter, he

orally

explained the nature of the contacts which the Department had

had with King.

It was unnecessary for me to say anything other than

tö confirm Katzenbach's statement about

REG 27 / Fd3=11the sensitiveness of our sourse

irra

I - Mr. Sullivan,

DMit DeLoach

5 :.'

• NOV I9 1963

WW 55090: A9gTd(7)989510/Pera8 STI

COPY SENT TO MR. TOLSON

---

## Page 39

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE:

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN THE NEGRO MOVEMENT

NỌT

senator russels statea that he hadmintended to cause ar

issue over this matter.

He pointed out that the "Atlanta

Constitution," which he described as a newspaper more liberal than

the

"washington Post" and the

"New York Times" togethel, had

published an article stating that Hunter Pitts O'Dell to

be a

communist.

The Senator related that he had written a letter to

the Director asking him about this.

He said all he expected was

that the Director just call him on the phone and discuss

the matter.

Instead, he received a letter from Mr. Hoover

(the Senator stressed that he received this letter immediately)

in which Mr. Hoover said that he had referred this matter to the

near anything from the Department. Sues taunt he then got a

Russell went on to say that he waited and waited and did not

little angry and dispatched a followup communication to the

asting hin whether the id had severed relations with the senses.

Inther King himself was

a communist, but that obviously the Negro

Movement was ready

made for exploitation by the Communist Party.

It was on this basis that he made inquiry to lind out whether:

in fact, O'Dell is a communist.

He indicated complete satistaction

with the explanation given to him by katzenbach and said he did not

intend to make any speech on the Senate Floor about this.

In leaving Senator Russell's Office, he was still in a

very friendly mood and joked with Katzenbach about his TV

performance in the confrontation with Governor Wallace at the

University of Alabama.

It would appear that if the AG had been more prompt in

handling senator russell's inquiry, this matter would not nav

been magnified into proportions linally reached

pierstuf

- 2 -

HH 55083 DocId: 32989540

Page 39

---

## Page 40

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

MAY 1062 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STAT

iNMENT

Memorandum

Vir. Belmont

C. A. Evans

Talon-

Mohr -

Casper.

Callogan

etsdac

vuns -

•Gale -

fosch.-

sallivan

Tayer" -

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Holmes-

Gandy -

TESTIMONY CONCERNING

MARTIN LUTHER KING BEFCRE THE

HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE

DATE: January 31, 1964

*MOR 6

•ATE INFORHATION COSTAINLA

ORELS IS UACLASSIFLE

ATE 1a/5/00 BxSP2AEISTJAC

5-Boston in id

The Attorney General called and stated that during the course of his

testimony yesterday on the Justice Department appropriation, he learned that

there had been previous testimony before the Committee concerning the sub -

versive afftliations of Martin Luther King. He said something was mentioned

about a report having been withdrawn and he asked whether this had anything to

do with the report he had discussed with the Bureau some time ago. He wanted

to know if there was anything on the record with regard to such testimony.

After checking with Mr. Nohr, the Attorney General was informed

that there was absolutely nothing on the record insofar as the Bureau was con-

cerned in regard to this matter. It was pointed out that the House Subcommittee

I had been concerned about some film which UstA was going to distribute abroad,

in Which Martin Luther King played a particuar part, and because of this the

Director had been asked about King's background. The comments in this regard,

however, were off the record.

The Attorney General seemed completely satisfied with this, as he

said just to forget he ever asked about it.

1 - Mr. Mohr

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - Mr. Rosen

CAE:vap

(7)

-[Li

REC-16.102=101-670=271

€ FEB 7 1964

5/Xe S0513

EX-103

UNAC

Thas common is prenared, in vesconse to

100-106670

you request and is not t

Mate cident man taco

nil war ile gapress aparaval of the FBl :

¿ duosca to trusthories earson-

peo- 100-3-111

HH 55083 DocId:32989540 Page 40

---

## Page 41

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

TEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

file No.

100-706670

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

July 23, 1963

AMDe16

LIENDRANDUH FOX ME ATTORNEY GENERAE

MARTIN LUTHRR KING, JR.

SECURTTY MATIER - CONIONIST

DICTASSIPIEO BESPEALM

"RE:

0x 12-5-00

Mardin Luther King, Sie, resides ad 563 Schason

Avenue, Ñ.ã., Atlanta, Georgia, ani 16 the Presidont of the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference, 350 Suburn livenue,

sanita

• Atlanca, Georgia.

He de closoly associated with stanley

Kevison,

-Levison

has doscribed ling as being a talencariod

who has scudded Larxiad, belioves in it, agrees with 1e.

OPERATINV

to espouse 2424016

Pursuant to your request that in vien of the

possible comupt insiucuce in tho sachel situation eor

sidcration be given to placing e tochnical surveillance on

King,

it 35 roquestod thas authority be granted to place a

technical surveillance on King aü his curant residence or

ai any lucure addcess to which ho may novo.

roquested that authority be granted to place & sochnical

surveillance on the southern Christian Leadership Conference

of which king is President or at any future address to wich

it may be moved.

Rospectfully,

@dipper 07000

pha Edgad Hoover

Director

ADPROVED

DAL'E

NATIONAL SECURITY, INFORMATION

Unthorined Disclosure

julyer lo Criminal Sanctions

*GROUP I

Excluded from

downgrading and

Sdgclassifibat.1on

automatio

NN 55083 DocId:32989540 Page 41

---

## Page 42

SHOET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 100-106670

TASIINGION 25, D. C.

July 23, 1963

DECEASED SR2 AMER

.-5-c

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

RE:

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

Maxtin Luther king. Jr., resides at 563 Johnson

Avenue, Moto, Atlanta, Georgia, and is the President of the

southern Christian Leadership Conference, S30 Auburn Avenue,

Atlanta, Georgia.

He is closely associated with stanley

Levison,

Levison

a concealed member of the Communist PaITY, USA, SUITIVE

has described ling as being a wholehearted Marzistier

who has studied Marxism, beheves let agrees with it,

but because a his being-minister.direligion-does.not unitin

dare to espouse it publicly..-

Pursuant to your request that in view of the

possible communist

influence in the racial sicuation con-

sideration be given to placing a technical surveillance or

King, it is requested that authority be granted to piace a

technical surveillance on King at his current residence os

at any future address to which he may move. It is further

requested that authority be granted to place a technical

surveillance on the Southern Christian Leadership Conference

of which King is President or at any future address to which

it may be moved.

Respectiully,

John Edgax Hoover

Director

APPROVED

DATE

, 1.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

HH. 55083

DocId: 32989540 Page 42

S

RET

GROUP

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

doclass 1cation

ENCLOSURE 1141:41.

---

## Page 43

OPTISHAL PORM NO.

UNITEL STATES GOVERNM

Memorandum

reling

TO

Mr. Belmont

DATE:

June 25, 1963

FROM

C. A. Evans

JUNE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

i.

Rosen -

Sulivan

Ravel -

Trolter -

Tole. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

I SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SAl:

The Attorney General orally informed me today that he had been

considering the request he made on July 16, 1963, for a technical surveil-

lance on Martin Luther King at his home and office and was now of the

opinion that this would be ill advised.

At the time the Attorney General initially asked for such a

surveillance, he was told there was considerable doubt that the

productivity of the surveillance would be worth the risk because King

travels most of the time and that there might be serious repercussions

should it ever become known the Government had instituted this coverage.

These were the very thoughts that the Attorney General expressed today

in withdrawing his request.

PATTER /3/00 BX 5P 2RI

HOREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

ALL INFORMATION UPRIS

With reference to the other technical surveillance requested

at the same time, namely, the one on Clarence Benjamin Jones, the

Attorney General felt this was in a different category and we should go

forward with this coverage. It is noted that this was previously approved

in writing by the Attorney General.

The memorandum we sent to the Attorney General on

July 23, 1963, requesting authority for the King surveillance has been

retrieved and is attached.

ACTIÓN TO BE TAKEN:

"We will take no further action to effect technical coverage on

Martin Luther King, either at his home or at his office at the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, in the absence of a further request

from the Attorney General.

Enclosure

REC-39//00-/066

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Rosen

I AUG 6 1963

CAE: VaP

1(8)

HH 55083 DocId: 32989540

is prepured in response to

to , or dissemi-

stink ridie mour Committee.

Its dos iз

oral proceedings by

*se and the eociont mey not be casclosed to unauthorized person-

inch without the express approvul of ihe FeI .

---

## Page 44

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

EMDRIG

ATZ ISI INFORMATION CONTAINED

12 2005F2Am /716

NH 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 44

•ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 45

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNM

NT ROUTE IN EN

Memorandum

TO

MR. BELMONT

_JUNE

DATE:

VELOPE

FROM

SUBJECT:

Gress

your request and is not for dissemi-

is tirited to offiral proceedings by

I's use

outsula your Committee.

ration

your commisce and the coitcat may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

express approval of the FBI.

without

nel

Mano t-

Ter 17: 83

7/16/63

C.

.

Evans/

Tolson

Belmoni

Casper

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Gal

Rosen, ^

sullivai

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy -

CC. FINIST INFLUENCE

IN

RACIAL MATTERS

CC Mr. Belmont

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Evans

ATE IMPORMATION CONTAINET MDRIE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

DATELZ15/00

BYSP 2 AUC

The AG was contacted at his request late this

afternoon.

He said that Clarence Benjamin Jones,

a NY attorney who has had close association with

Martin Luther king,

and with Stanley levinson

(a concealed communist), had been in to see Burke

Marshall about the racial situation. According to

the AG, Jones had indicated he had some reserva-

tiOns

about talking with Levinson on the phone.

Marshall thought he might have been referring to a

possible telephone tap, and passed it off by telling

Jones this was something he would have to take up

with Levinson.

(LEVISI

The purpose of the AG's contact was that this

brought to his attention the possivility of effect-

technicat coverage on both Jones and Martin

I told the AG that I was not at all

acquainted with Jones, but that, in so far as ising was

concerned, it was obvious from the reports that he

was in a travel status practically all the time, and

it was, therefore, doubtful that a technical surveillance

on his

office or home would be very productive. I also

should ever become known that such a surveillance had

been put on King.

5 JU: 31 1963

The AG said this did not concern him at all;

that in view of the possible communist influence in

the racial situation, he thought it advisable to

have as complete coverage as possible.

I., told bim,

under the circumstances, that ve would check into the

matter to see if coverage was feasible and, if so,

would submit an appropriate recommendation to him.

If you approve; 'ive will have a preliminary survey

made tolisee if

technical coverage is feasible with full

security.

• I.

• CAE: CSH;

; (4)

let's

2

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540 Page 45

---

## Page 46

„OPTIONAL PORM NO! 10."

UNITED STATES GOVER®

Memorändum

TO

Hr. Belmont

DATE:

July 16, 1963

FROM :

Co A. Evans

Gait

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr _

Casper -

Callahan

gonna -

DeLoacht

Evans -

) Gale

Rassen .

Sullivan J

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING

SECURITY MATTER - C

RACIAL MATTERS

INT INFORMATION CONTAINE

PEREIN IS UNCLASSIBIED

SATE 12/5/00 BYSPALM EE

riepared in response to your reruest and is not for dissemi-

by

official procecdings

I's nse is limited to

hi disclosed to ununthorized person-

During the testimony of Governor Barnett of Mississippi,

he referred to a photograph of Martin Luther King at what was

described as a "Communist Training School."

This photograph

showed King and some other persons identified on the sheet as

communists at a school in Tennessee.

A review of this photograph

by the, Bureau determined it undoubtedly was a Iller which consists

ot a picture ot & group oi individuals seated in an auditorium,

one of which was Martin Luther King, and related to a 1957 Labor

Day week end seminar at the Highlander Folk School at Monteagle,

Tennessee, which was attended by King.

At approximately 9:20 a.m, this morning, Assistant Attorney

General Burke Marshall telephonically contacted my office from the

individuals identitied on the photograpn wish king are

1130

Abner W.

Berry, described as being with the Central Cormittee of the Conmunist

Party, 2. Aubrey-Williams, described as Président of the Southern

Conference Iducational Fund, and 3.

Milesytiorton, described as

Coramice.

the content t.cy ne

Director of the Highlander Folk School."

Mr. Marshall advised that the Attorney General would like

Tto have furnished to him as soon as possible

a quib ou each of the three persons mentioned abor morning a briel

The Attorney

Géneral is to leave for testimony before the Interstate Commerce

Conmittee, at around 10:15 and would like to have this material by

Sthat time.

REC-10 /

FACTION

ST-103*

• JUL 31) 1963

nation

your C

Il approved, a brief statement concerning each of these

individuals will be furnished to the Attorney General's Office

Soon as possible. Li LARGIVEN TO MR.

I - Mr. DeLoach

700 18

TELEPHOT

•I=

Mr. Rosen

"in' in"

1

hit.

Sullivan

6,6

I m

McGoran

CHS: rap,

(8) 100

we what

HH 55083 Do0Id:32989540

;Page 46

---

## Page 47

oproval caM No. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mir. Belmon las

FROM : C. A. Evans

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

DATE:

August 1, 1963

folsor

Id Baliont

Mohir _

Caspo

Calahar

DeLoacht

- Gale -

Rosen.

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tole. Room

Holmes -

Gandy .

EMDE 6

ALL INTORNATION CONTALLY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSLEIE

DATE 12/5/00 BY SPIRALINE

The Attorney General asked me to see him this morning. On being

contacted he handed me a copy of the report in captioned matter prepared by

Special Agent Daniel J. Quigley at New York duted July 22, 1963, classified

secret, which had been transmitted to the Records Administration Office of the

Department by Form O-o dated July 29, 1963.

ECHiDE FOREIGN TELL OPERATION

The Attorney General read the synopsis of the report which is: "Subject

described as a confirmed Marxist - Leninist as of June, 1963. Information con-

cerning subject's association during 1962, and 1963, with Stanley Levison and

Hunter Pitts O'Dell, described as CP members set forth. " The Attorney General

also referred to the statement on page two of the report under the heading 'Evidence

of Communist Party Sympathies; Martin Luther King, Ji. has been described as

confirmed Marxist - Leninist.

Ay It June 1963.

The Attorney General stated that if this report got up to the Hill at

t his time, he would be impeached. He noted that if this report got out, it would

be alleged the FBI said King was a confirmed Marxist - Leninist as late as, t? open

June, 1963. The Attorney General went on to say that the report had been reviewed

in detail by Assistant Attorney General Burke Marshall who had told him there

wasn't'anything new here concerning King's alleged communist sympathies but

that it was the timing of the report and its possible misuse which concerned him.

The Attorney General went on to say that he didn't feel he could fully trust every -

one in the Internal Security Division of the Department.

I pointed out to the Attorney General that first of all this report was

classified secret and was just a summary report to bring our files and that of the

Department's up to date.

He said that while this was undoubtediy true, the sub-

mission of the report at this time in this form presented definite hazards.

CAE:pew

REG- 44

070

DeLoach

Sullivan

3-detent

4-22-63

This derment is

dissemi-

I ENCLOSURIA

Contritied 22 SEPal 1868122 1

matthout the cupiess apricoal of the FEI-n

HIH

55083

To

• 329

40

Page

---

## Page 48

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

therefore asked that the report be resubmitted to him with a cover memorandum

setting forth the exact evidence available to support the statement that King has

ACTION BEING TAKEN:

The Domestic Intelligence Division has been alerted to the Attorney

General's request and is preparing a memorandum to him which will serve as

a cover in resubmitting the New York report.

HH 55083. DocId: 32989540, Page 48

-2-

---

## Page 49

CONFIDANTIAL

The Attorney General

July 16,

1963

1

DireCiOs, FBI

ST-10383/

MATIN LUTEER KING

SECURITY MATTEE • C

RACIAL MATTERS

1

576

Mx o

Belmon t

MX .

Lyans

Mx. Stanley

#MORIG

DECLASSTPIED SY SPLALA 1IG

0x 12 - 5-00

not for

moceedings

uncuthorized person

your regrest

is limited to

not be disclosed to

The following is a bried sumary of inforuation in 00

this Bureau's files concerning Abner W. Berry, Aubrey Willians *

and Myles Horton:

WOOK

Tz responsé

This dormant.

aproval of

nel without trovaceses.

Abnes lanston Berties regro, was born on sune 12.

1002, 3t Beaurant, Teras.

1929,

and from 1030 to 1053n03 hold haginever positious

within the barty.

In 1931 is zelenquished editorshin os the

Marich edition of "The Torter" is order to assume the position

of Negro-Atfairs Iditor du ahe Maily Voriser."

He hold this

position until the "Daily@'orse" ceased operation in

canuary,

In Septenber, 1083% Boday was reporced to have sout the

Persy: however, he attended ide 1?th Communics barty Netionai

convention on becember sa 1ay 1555s at how loris tiey.

resides in lewark, lew fersey, and is cuzrently enployed as

editor by the

Antara Indonesian Nows Agency, with offices

in the baited lations building, How Yous Caby.

This agency

publishes: a daily bulletin which has been described as an

Indonesian propaganda outle ouned and operated by the

Governnent of Indonesia; howeves, investigation indicates

31 nesnally appenrs to be a privatoly owned firm with no

subsidization by the Indonesian Covernment. Upon being

interioned on three occasions by Spocial Agonte of tha bi, 2

ins refused to cooperate, indicating that he had severed

connections with the Communist Party because it became

futile organization.

Aubrey Willis Milllans da Chairuan of the Nationai

• Committee to Abolish the House Un-Anorican, antstle

ciced as an organization sos up to lead and alibo he Conunis

Pasty's "operation abolition" canvair.

This connittoo vas

organized by Willians and Frank Vilkinsou

& Inow and adnitiod past Communidi FarHnubershay.

Gver the

years Williams has spoken belore, and supposted,

a number of

left-wing

and communistaled groups, although he

has publiclY:

DeLoach

NOTE: Information obtained from memo Jones to

Rosen R DeLoach, 7/16/63, captioned "Abner Winston Berry:

riz o sulLivan

CHS; rAp.

MAIL ROOM L

CONTINUED PASS,

69e 16d 68

41706

WW 55083

---

## Page 50

CONFIPENTIAL

The Attorney Goneral

and in appearances before Senate investigating connittees,

disclained any connection with, os inowledge of, the Conmunist

Party. lle has worked energetically to discredit the ril and

the Director.

As of july.

196L, Millions was Presidont and

I norber of the board of Dizectora of the Southern Conterence

Educationn! Fund, Incorporated, previousLy inow as the

Southern Conterence jon Tuman Wellare, cated as a communiss

front.

A listing of the officers of the Southern Conference

Educationas fund dacca in January, 1555, IndICates 11L1Lamg

is noy president emcritus of this orgarization.

to a confilentil inforunt, in June of 1956, during the time

the Southern Conference for luman Velfare was in existence,

Communist Party nembers vere affiliaied with it and worised

accitely in di, since the cormation of the Souchern Conterence

Educational Fund, caris and tile Party nothers have not been

encouraged to work in It; however, certain tardy menders n

the Now Orleans area had

ween assigned to percIcIpace in the

organization to lurther communist principles.

On June 20, 1903, Myles Torton identifled hinsel?

to the

FDy 25 Dasoctor of the laghlander, Research and

Education Center of Kinozville, tennessee. This Is the

successor to the Lighlander folk School, originally at

Monteagle, Tennessee, of wiich forton was also the director.

The latter school was supported primarily by donations from

individuals and labor unions and

it osfered courses or

Instruction In Labor orgnization social economics and

the goneral field of labor education. It was known to have

Communist Party nonbers on its start and it followed the

practice or securing connunisis as students.

However

according to information rocolved,. It was never known to

have offered courses of instructions in comnunism, nor was

the party known to have succeeded in raining control of the

school.

Thero were many rilegations that is copresented the

headquarters for communism in eastern Tennessee; however,

those clains were never substandated. The Tennessee Courts

revoked

the llignlander foll: School's chartor on the grounds

that i violaiod the crininal laws of the state. A state

charter lo2 the Knoxville school was issued on August 28,.1951.

On April 21, 1942, a conlidentil Informant advised

that hyles Hoxcon

syas a speaker before the gouthern Contcience

{0x liuman Welfare.

On

April 10, 1910, Paul Crouch, & 50li-

admitted former Coumunist Party

member, described llartas 1s

CONTipENTIAL

o2 c

1H 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 50

---

## Page 51

The Attorney General

a le¿t wing socialist who was always close to the Communist

Party, mating with officials and representatives to discuss

policy and procedure during the veriod ¿rom 1939 co 3341.

This intomant also described lorion's wile, bylphia, ag

being even closer do the Party in 1011 Another confidential

informant aivised this Bureau in 1950 that lIorton continued

to follow the Communist Party line during the period 1947 to

1950 and that he associated with known Party members. this

Informant doubted that Horton was actually & Coummist Party

member.

In 1930 and 1951 a third confidential intormant,

who is a fornor nember of the Party, advised that lorion

was, not a nomber even though he hau close association with

Party member's.

He stated foxton had been criticized by the

Party menbera as an opportunist who used the Party for his

own panes

Horton was reported to be listed as one of the

speators fos. a "Dill of Rights Dinner" which vas to be

sponsored by the Buergency Civil Liberties Connittee on

Decoabor 15, 1959.

The above confirms information lurnished to

Ageistant Axtorney General, Burke Marshall on the morning

ai July 16, 1903.

...1 • Nx. Burke Marshall

Assistani Attorney General

I - Ix. i. Walter leagley

Assistant Attorney General

NOTE: (CONTINUED) Classified com identiatas information

furnished from confidential intormants

whose revelation could cause harm to the

national defense.

• 3.

cONFIDANTIAL

1N 55083000Id:32909540 Page 51:

---

## Page 52

HOUSTUDY/SENSTUDY "JUNE"

NCLOSURE FORM

RE - HOUSTUDY

OR

SENSTUDY

62-116464-

62-116395- 1086 EBF

THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE IS AN OUTGOING MEMO/LETTER TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL DATED 10 31-75 FURNISHING COPIES OF FBI

DOCUMENTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST(S) MADE BY EITHER THE U.S.

SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES ON INTELLIGENCE. SINCE THE

ATTACHED XEROX COPY/COPIES ARE "JUNE" MAIL, IT/THEY HAS/HAVE

BEEN REMOVED FROM THE ENCLOSURE TO THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE

AND IS TO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE AS INDICATED BELOW:

x-

ANDRIG

ALL INFORMADION DOUTATRICO

HEREIN IS UNSLASSIFIED

DATS 17/5/00 BYSP 2 ALMIFIE

THIS ENCLOSURE MATERIAL IS IO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE OF

HOUSTUDY

62-116464-

OR

SENSTUDY

62-116395-1086

Enclosine

File

WW 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 52

---

## Page 53

HOUSTUDY/SaNSTUDY "JUNE"

ERCLOSURE FORM

RE - HOUSTUDY

OR

SENSTUDY

62-116464-

62-116395-1083

Enclosine Attached

THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE IS AN OUTGOING MEMO/LETTER TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL DATED LO - 28-75 FURNISHING COPIES OF FBI •

DOCUMENTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUEST(S) MADE BY EITHER THE U.S.

SENATE OR HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES ON INTELLIGENCE. SINCE THE

ATTACHED XEROX COPY/COPIES ARE "JUNE" MAIL, II/THEY HAS/HAVE

BEEN REMOVED FROM CHE ENCLOSURE IO THE SERIAL INDICATED ABOVE

AND IS IO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE AS INDICATED BELOW:

#MDRIG

ATI INFORNATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIE IND

DATS 12/500 BX SO RAL AG

THIS ENCLOSURE MATERIAL IS TO BE FILED IN THE "JUNE" FILE OF

HOUSTUDY

62-116464-

OR

SENSTUDY

62-116395-1083

NW-55083 DocId:32989540 Page 53

---

## Page 54

ÓRAL REQUEST OF SSC

10/24/75

# MORN

ALL INTORMATION CONTAYED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIRO

DATE 12-3-00 B15P AALIC

HH 55083 DocId:32989510 Page 54

---

## Page 55

SECRET

1: 10 a

July 26,

1952

7-26-67

Ail.

TOLSON

35Lan.1

-

int

7n -

35VSP3 BT1/CAM

DECLASSIF ON:

5/919b q/17/96 SP-3 B1a/8dl

12. D7 I0ACH

¿ha Altoroy: charal called and cialid ac iea jast talked to

vecrotary si muicaco atrinara and in comaction therewit he, the nitorney

Concaal, ait no loon if I had had a cance to load to low fors dides are

by conson dalizin (honcie). Cihe Attornuj vonoral stated tals is ioct in-

fontanake in tiet li givas come inor nation rej arding the intellicence we have

now on the misuila siles oi the soviet union and the sources for cuat intelligence.

The Attorney General siated this was a very closely tela paper witan toe

Coverntact and tns aresidont spot secifically avout it at the last rationa

Gecurity somch mecting where nay lad planned to distribute a number of toe

copins and the reclient ll nited the numbor dractically so it was cigaoly

watched and despite that, It came out in the New York Times

§The Attorney General stated the President is anxious and the

Secretary of Defense is ansious, as is he, the Attorney Genoral, to see li

once agairi we can do anything with this and he, the Attorney General, would

Ike to lave me assiga somebody to l00s into it. I stated I would get somebody

to start on it rigat aray and upon inquiry, the Attorney Cenaral stated Loneral

Joseph Carroll has tie incts and informacion and somebody can get in touca

with him. I told the Attorney General I would get on it rigut away.

67669

Very truly yours,"

J. E H.

5 JUL 28 1902

6.0 -

ЯНО!

- Miss Holmes

John Edgar Acover

ARt INORMAIION CONTAINI

STONE GOUERIOR,

Director

Ish:edm (9)

ĐX-116'

SENT FROM D. G.

TIME

12:044:0

DATE.

7-B6--

BY

prepared

an response to your request and in a ior dissemi-

7ULD 02 LETYPE Ution outside your Committee.

Its usè is limited to officil i. wordings ba

your Committee and the content muy not, be disclosed to unasthoriel person-

55083

DocId: 32989540

Pagel without the express approval of the FBI.

---

## Page 56

11996)

Review/

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540 Page 56

---

## Page 57

ATI, IMFORMATION CONTAI

MILISSTINNA SI FINYAH

SHERD SHIQUAI

isan

iront

hI--

Logeh

Lone

sen

vat

ttes

HtT

55083

PP SECRET

I-HIr.

Belmont

The Attorney General I-Ir. D.E.loore

1-iIr. J.I. liacks

July 27, 1962

Diroctor, FBI

ARTICLE BY MINSCELW..

BALDNIN

INES LOW YORK JEUS"

зрay 26,

1962

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X L

559196/9/1719523098gel

53

Arfanatoly following your advice to ao of the

aftera Scol muly co, 1363, that incuiry was cantrad ta an

423 300200 1103 Valet 122055 Poin

(6) 10-102 11e cloney ronacentation ci ti

13au 091108

on Consint vouena Carroll oi tho Lenarinont o1 Joienje Loi

lacio and iniozuation portinont to the inquiry.

Internions with General Carroll and other Pepastuent

0f Dotonos cificinis and intorvions viti: orziciais of tur

Contral-Intolligence Agency (CIA) have indicated that unterial

wnich could have been utilined by Baldwin in prenaring his

articlo vas nubliched as eaxly as the tirst part of Juas, 1302.

This naterial vas published in the form of ercits tlich

culminatod in

the procuction of Fational Intoliigonso IsCoate

(MID) 11-3-62 which was used to bries the llational Security

COuncI On JuLy 9 aoc 10, 1502. Ap0206236601Y 11 C90220 01

Enis Estimate were disseninated originally; howeverg at tze

President's instructions all vere recalec

WaS

and disequination

Inited to approsimatoly 33 copies. XS

Assorcing to cla officials, thore were approzimately.

40 to

s0 people present at the liational Secuzazy Council DIze.1033

and,

e the Conclusion of tho brieting, the President Insiructor

that

antucy be made of tho politicai

of the nionation in the Estinate. (KS

11-3-02,

redissioninated

numbering approsinately 3S, were,

On JulY

16 and

17, 1902.

However, it saould bal

noted that as & result of provious drafts, previous dissemiaation,

brioliags, ete.,

CIA officials estinate that between three-and

four hundred persons had knowledge of the infornation wich ras

contained in this Estinate.

2E1 S86

- & 20 BH.0S

605-=

6766946.0

1 32%

PE AUG 2 1962

ZHB: jdd

Mis 7-27-6231

(7)

1 KY

SEVI DA

Ktm 1967

0

7 27-63

*TELETYPE UNIT

DooId:32989540

Page 57

SNATIONAL" SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

---

## Page 58

TOR SECRET

The actornay. Conorti

IIICOLOr NEGOnE Of CIA advised on the liternoon of

July S5, Jose, boat CIA vas noxing an analysis of the caldrin

article to cotermino mat intoration nas ciaocified and rhether

¿he inzormation could be traced to a particular document or

docuneats.

This analysis was mede available to us today and

indionise tini tio clesa131ed intolligonce in Balduin's ariicle

¡cluedly airs to be bassd on intonation 130a 1I7 11-3-32."

nois inher soclecis that caldrin arziroo in

Tain t01g

3aday, JBig 10,

1033, and reportoily

En.91 7:l.°

N9107-144100634302112

'Zan dos notes miln io, 2011.

1r. in did not vol to suyone as CIa alcaough

i ho

ECCO.SON 10 MINT 00 10437207 D16 L1230602 200032.

CIA noses that the phraseoiccy and othor clues contained

In Colevin's anticle point to the arouskality that calvin

rocolved a soonial, non-cochaical, briozing of zovion of the

conclusiong reachod in the National Intolligence rutinate and

thois implications. CiA also notes that the release of nau

11-2-35 01 juiy 10 toos place on the day Dalduin arrivec in

vecinoton. It ras Curing this same voss that vazious draits

and FOring pAperS more prepared end

circulated on inis subject

mattor in carrying out the prosidont's instructions to conduct

a study of the political and military implications of HIS 11-3-62.(XS

I #1sh to advise you that 12 Agents of this Bureau were

Immodiatoly assigned to make this inquiry and have undergone tho

briezings insisted upon loI clearance purposos.

We have requested.

the Department of Dotense to furnish us a complete list oễ all

personnel in the Department visited by Baldin during the wee

03 July 26,

1902.

he intend to intervior each of these individuais

thoroughly in an attempt to determine whether information fas

Jurished 10 Balduin on this matter.

In accition, # ale

CeceuinIng WOrO SaLarin GUayed PUBLE In MaShingiOn 101 Che

purpose of checkian any available sourcos as to telephone calls

or personal contacts.

In accordance with our discussion today, technical

coverage will be effective on Baldwin on the norning of July 28,

1962, et his residonce in Now York.

In addition, ve have

learned Wai Balduin norally utilizos Lauza H. Waltz of

• SECRST

*

NW 55083 DocId:32989540 Page 58

---

## Page 59

arcade coolaus 1400

in con25 t0 120b109t01.

Consccucutly,

va liave plecod tocinical covesage on her residence and intead to

intorvion her and Icquost a list of percons contacted by Baldwin

during his cocont trip

MashingtOn.

and ta ine conconscating inacciatoly on obtaining &

11u0 di

monto Collectoi

ü ali in end intoavioring wis,

T101.

Mris 526435634

12009.n: dancis 52ich

consein tho incoration in cuestion,

finiang

10 20210S EAS 20113 O6 611 2224075

"sidin denied to Booza-27 is

concuse incuiry at caci croacy rins tho cozument tas

02m30100101.

macis a cason will bacoustedly soileet

Chet

Lunezous Ol porsons had ccous to tue inionacion. (S)

I hove inabruciod that this naster ba given continuor,

epcressive actentior.

You will ba adriaed of further

'i""

SECRST

^N₩ 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 59

---

## Page 60

• UNITED STATES GOVERNY

NT

Memorandum

TO : MR. SULLIVANU

SUNT

FROM : A. H. Beimon

SUBJECT:

DATE:

7/27/62

cc Mr. Belmont

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Wannall

Mr. J.D. Donohue

UNKNOWN

SUBJECT;

• Leak of Classified Information in

Hanson !

• Baldwin article

in The New York Times'T - 7/26/6

r'olson -

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach.

Evans _

Malone -

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

The Director advised today that he had

talked to the AG regarding the desirability of a

technical surveillance on the home of Hanson Baldwin,

who prepared the article involved in this case.

Director advised that the AG had approved

the installa-

tion of a technical surveillance on Baldwin by the

Bureau, at his residence in New York.

Appropriate

steps were immediately taken to have New York install

this surveillance.

6.

AND CS (5)

ALI INFORMATIO] GO RATIZO

HOREIN IS UNCLASSIEITA

DATE 12-10-96 BYSP-3-B TaneL

#353842

This document is prepared in response to your request and is unt for dissemi-

nation outside your

Committee.

Its use is limited to official nu caugs by

your Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to unantior ised person

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

'1.

113)

25G 5

1157-1

65167632-1

# AUG 2 1962

Grue

AUG 8

1962

• HW 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page-60

---

## Page 61

- SEGET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTE-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ire Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

JunE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

July 31, 1962

p03 BItteR

DEICIASSIFIED BX

12-10-

JULY 262 1262

ESPIONAGE - X

11: 8-

In connection with your equest for an investigation

of the unauthorizra disclosure of classified information in

the captioned article, surveys have indicated that technical

surveillances on Fanson I Baldwin, 39 torton Place, Chappaqua,

Westchester County, New York, and on Laura d. Faltz,

2700 Wisconsin Avenue, Northwest, l'ashington, D. Co, can be

made with security.

Balawin is a correspondent for

"The New Jork Times" and faltz is a secretary in the

Fashington, D. Co, Bureau of this newspaper.

She reportedly

makes appointments for Baldwin in lashingion, D. Co

Accordingly,

your auinority is nerevy requested fur technical surveillances

on their current addresses as well as on other addresses to

Respectfully,

1. Edgar store

lohn Edgax Hoover

Director

APPROVED

DATE

-2-31-63

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions 77,701,

AUG 2 1962

AUG C 1962

NH 55083

Doc1d:32989540 Page 61

XENoX dup JunE

7-11-6.6

SEET

---

## Page 62

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVEI

Memorandum

NT

SECRET

TO

FROM :

Mr. Belmong

C. A. Evans

DATE:

ATI INPORMATION CONTÄTAN

HEREIN IS UNPLASSIUID RACHE

SUBJECT:

HERE SIOVE QUERIESTE

Tolson.

Belmont

Mohr -

Conrad -

DeLoach

Filche

Rosen

August 2, 1962 p04/ aton.

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Ganox -

MOOT

ARTICLE BY HANSON W. BALDWIN

IN THE "NEW YORK TIMES"?

JULY 26, 1962

353842

ESPIONAGE - X

CLASSIFIED BY SP 3 B7/CinC

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X46

50-3 5377/122

The Attorney General advised that he had called for the Director

earlier this morning, it having slipped his mind that the Director was out of the

city.

The Attorney General is fully aware that the Director is available by

telephone. He indicated that in view of the time differential of the West Coast,

he would not call him on the telephone but asked that the following information be

passed on to Mr. Hoover.

The Attorney General said the President did not. want to accept just

the evaluation of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department as

to the seriousness of the disclosures in the Baldwin story. Accordingly, the

President asked for an independent evaluation of this matter by the Killian Commi

(James R. Killian is Chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory

Board.) The Attorney General said he had been informed telephonically as to

Killian's report to the President in this regard and he thought the Director woul

be interested in it.

your

The Killian report characterized the Baldwin disclosure as being

you Committee and

til mot or a a cat reach enter a le some are le end to real a

the

a diminution . of our "intelligence take" as to Soviet missile plans. The reports

further classified this Baldwin disclosure as a tragic breach of security. It con

tinued by indicating it was incomprehensible that Baldwin would write such a story

Committee.

document is prepared

and that the editors of the "New York Times" would publish it. This indicated

Its

that the only result can be a quick and further concealment of missile plans by

response

the Soviets and hamper our plans to develop information in this regard,f

The Attorney General commented that in view of this evaluation by

the Killian Committee, any complaints about our interviewing a stenogräpher

limited to

your request

certainly seemed ridiculous.

The Attorney General was informed that this information would,

course, be made promptly available to the Director.

CAE:pew (8) 1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. D. E. Moore

: - 5;4

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Wacks

HH 55083

DocId: 32989540 Page 62

SECRET

SENT DIRECTOR

8-2-12

5

brill

discene

---

## Page 63

OPONÁL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

NT

ALL INFORNAZION GOATAILUD

HEREIN IS UNCLASSISIT

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr —

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone -

Rosen -

TO :

N. C. Sullivan

1114:

DATE: 8/13/62

JUNE

FROM:

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

W. R. Wannalf,

1 • Belmont

- Sullivan

1

- D.E.Moore

ARTICLE BY HANSON N.

BALDNIN IN

1

• J.D.Denohue

"THE NEW YORK TINES," JULY 26, 1962

1

ESPIONAGE - X

1 - Wacks

In connection with this investigation we instituted

technical

surveillances on the residences of Laura M. Waltz

Pertinent information

was obtained from these tesurs during the following week; however,

recently nothing pertinent has been reported.

We are continuing interviews

in this case at least_through

8/17/62 and a report of investigation is expected on 8/20. It is

felt that tesur on Balawin may furnish some pertinent information

as a result of our investigation, and something of value may be

realized after our report is disseminated to the White House and the

Attorney General. It is felt, therefore, that the tesur on Baldwin

should be continued.

Waltz is a stenographer at the Washington Office of the

"Times" and not a key figure in the investigation. It is unlikely

that any information will be obtained from the tesur on her in the

future and it is felt this tesur should be discontinued on 8/15/62.

ACTION:

If you approve, WFO will be instructed to discontinue

the tesur on Waltz as of midnight 8/15/62 and we will continue

the tesur on Baldwin.

65-67669

-EX-116

REC-20

65-67669

25 AUG 22 1962

AUS C0 1962 nation outside your Committe.

rectorys by

your Committee and the content nuty nut be disclosed to unauto, ied person

nel without the express approval of the EBI.

HM 55083 DocId: 32989540 Page 63

---

## Page 64

7

"Beinont""

Guans

Sullivan

1 • Do'=

1 - Wannas:

•1 - Hacks

The Attorney General

August 31, 1962

07 3-21-81

Leaker ClassiFied

Director Marinatic, in

ANICUS BY SAISON TO BALERIAL -

- IIES," JULY 20, 1962

LEFTOLIC - 2

— *I INFORNATION COSTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSILZ

Reference is node to our letter dated nugust-21,

DATE 32101605838710

enclosing a manorerum catso August 15,

Fort the resulta a our investigation in this sadlers

iộn set

There is enclosed a remorandun dated Audit 30,

1952, setting forti the rosults of sis aucitional interviers.

Tie source vot icertified bu rone in the encloscá zerofcraz

has furnisied reliable inforuction in the post.

Four cubention

is spect icely called to the irierview of CordainEumar 2.

calcuel, Jr, United states Mauy, appearing on sages 1 am 2.

Captain Calduell is of the personal opinion that Leputy secretary

of Defense foovell I. Gilpatric furnished the information for

the July aú article to Balcuin.

He do not contemplate conducting any additional

interviems in this matier in the ausence of a specific requesi.

:65-67669

Enclósure

11, 2

• (9)

NOTE: TO

PilG

He SEE

4

REG 61

EA

This letter is classified mop secree" because

EO

information herein discloses the location of information so

classified-in an article available to the quplic.

The enclosure

is classified "Top secret" for lonel reason i t

10П

mant

ahan

ШИЗЬЕСІОК

BEC-D

MAILED 2

AUG 31 1962

10

ync 31

ter.

• Room —

des

iy

-7 дорідії

162 H

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

HW 55083

DocId: 32989540

Page 61

MAc 31

WI.

SECEINED DISEC,06

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP

CRET

---

## Page 65

OPTIONEL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

Edison.

Selmont

Mohr -

Callahan

W. C. Sullivan,

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINUI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTFUX

DATS /2-10-ILT7,SP3 BLEEZeh

•:: "DATE: 8/28/62

==

JUNE

FROM:

W. R. Wannall

SUBJECT:

ARTICLE BY HANSON W. BALDWIN IN

"THE NEW YORK TINES," JULY 26, 1962

ESPIONAGE - X

swans -

Malone -

Rosen =

Sullivan I

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy -

1 • Belmont

1 - Sullivan WaLly.

1 - Wannall

1

- D.E.Moore

- J.D. Donohue

1 - Wacks

In connection with our investigation of the leak of

classified information in the captioned article,

we instituted a

technical surveillance on the residence of Baldwin in Chappaqua,

New York,

on 7/28/62. We have

received some pertinent information

from this tesur; however, nothing of value has been reported since

8/17/62.

We disseminated our report in this case to the Attorney General,

the White House and the Secretary of Defense by letter dated 8/21/62.

This report included all but a few of the interviews we flanned to

conduct in this case.

Another report will be forthcoming on of

about 8/30/62 and it will be immediately disseminatee, to the arore

mentioned.

This report will contain results of interviews with

i

five other individuals who were unavailable for intervier until this

week. It is not anticipated that these interviews will be fruitful

or result in information of value being obtained through the tesur.

We will then have completed investigation in this matter.

Since we have received nothing

of pertinence from the

tesur recently and since our case is coming to a close, it does not

appear that any information will be obtained from the tesur in the

future.

ACTION:

Son.

If you approve,

the tesir on Baldwin as bf midnight 8/29/62.

New York will be instructed to discontinue

65-67669

JFW: smf

REG

65-676698

5'

1S6z

FP S

55083

2x.113

This document is prepared in respr:

it mos request audi

nation outside your Committce.

lis rise is limitcal do rifin

*07 8.986 123

4962

40208

you Committee and the content may nut be disclosed to umpired personn

DocId:32989540

nel without the express approval of the Bl

---

