# docid-32338752

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10170

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Caset:WM 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/05/1943

27

HERBERT JOSEPH BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

1H 54460

DocId: 32338752

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

LOS ANZELES

7/5/13

FRE NO. 100-6769

TITLE

HERBERT JOSEPH BIBERMAN, ot al

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

AUL INPOR MATION CONTAiNED

& UNGLASSIFIED A

HEREIN!

SHERE SHOWN

EXCEPT

OTHERMISE

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

4/71 - 6/30/143

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN R. VICARS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL, SECURITY - R

CUSTODIAL, DSTENTION

SIBICILE CONFIDNTIAL

IRARRT BIBBIKAN diractod also for CIO Rally

W2b/3. LARSON aleo partlodpated. LARSON

1a samber of Executita Board of tallynood

lesserable connittoo, and BIBARMAl uroto "AlE

and Parponsen leathet for thie organisation.

LANSON SO PrOsANtIy 1546540805 11 Los Angalos

Narkara sorodly mill contims inriraotions 1n

dITIOtOd MARGARIT NAIIZ tO AtTOTA GP StAtO COn

vanilon delogato nesting 5/1u/43 and dollvered

aradantials thorafor to hor. Bibails sougu

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

sE dIraCtOr Of dit fOX WILTAN Z. FOSTER TAlLY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

-o la6 And 7/18/10 under mundoes too dopeles County GP.

Apparent Communist mintings attarded by mibjecte

DATE le- 19-45

listod. Bani 200000te manitarad and ratulto of

na1l ostore det out.

DIKLASBIFIND

9145|

REFERSHCE:

Bureau F11o 100-24499.

report al Spostal Agent JOHN R. VICARS,

Los Angelas, Calstorala, April 20, 1943.

DETAILS!

LANSON 854

D1710201.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

Bureau

3

2

New York

Boston

3 L0s Angales

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

IAISON BIANIMAN AOtIVItY In tHA

CIO-PHILIP MURRAY Recoption

Declassith on: OND

IN CHARGE

1 2241912 11 0n

100 1330950

DECHASSIPAST BY N803RDD/TE

NOT KICO: 04 5/25/9

82

AUG

3

1950

CN293, 827

6. th NR

NH 54460

DooId:32338752 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ƯIN

100

mating. Lo also directed that if a committee was appointed at the

nobilisation meeting, he would be very happy to oft in with it, togother

wíth BILL OLIVER and to work on the beript, but ho did not want to assure

the responsibility. BISURIAN then conferred with BILL OLIVER and received

confirmation that OLIVER would attend the HOLLY#COD VRITERS MOBILIZAZION

BIBERMAN directed that OLIVER ask for a committee and whan it

is formed, BIBERIAN suggastod that it would be usoful 1l ho (BIBERMAN) and

OLIVER and the committee all worked on the slit together. He also diracted

that OLIVER should bring along the material that BIBERMAN proparod for

CoNnilLy, as parte of it could be used as a basis from whith to work.

akit Involved four workers, Including

On April 26, 19L3, BITY OLIVER, whom the informant ad-

vised le a member of the Newspaper Guild, conferred with BIBERMAN and told

him that the HOLISTOOD TRITERS MOBILIZATION comittee miting the chon lor

the CIO meting would hold a conference at the hone of PAUL JARRICO, 727

Linda Flora Drive, Fest Los Angeles, Sunday, April 10th, at 12,00 noon.

BIBERIAN was aleo active in soliosting Hollywood people

to partioipate in the skit.

Ho attempted to gat JOH STEPARD, who, apparently,

is the husband of ANNE REVER, but was advised that he was in Officora Training

for the Navy. However, ha did obtain RUSSELL OLRASON, 1560 Queens Roads

LIONEL STANFEC, 7220 Frankling MARC LAWRENCE; LENA HORNE (negro), 1229

Horn Aveme; ELLIOTY SULLIVAN, 6213 Glon Airy Way, Los Angeles: and STEPHEN

BARCIAX. He 318o attemptad to got WALTER MET through FRANk TUTE, but

was unsuccessful Xa

Of those obtained, it should be noted that RUSSELI

GLEASON 18 & nember of the HOLLYWOOD DENOCRATIC COMITTEE, reported to

be the norest of the Communiet front organizations among the movie industry

psoplo; LIONEL STAVESC was a Comminist, according to JOIN L IBECH; former

Executive Secretary of the los Angeles County Communist Party, a few years

ago and still reportedly follow the Communiat Party line. LENA TORAD

Party a for years

(Negro) has been given much attention by tho Peoplete World", Communist

Vest Coast newspapar, and to reportedly a vory close associate of ORSON

WELLES ELLIOTT SULLIVAN, according to Confidential National Defense

Informant IA-1357, partiotpated in the skit given at the Communiet Party

plonte, lay 2, 1913, and also has been spotted in attendance by the writer

in attendance./

In attenting to obtain LENA HORNE to not in this skit;

BIBIRJAIT conferred with REVEIS CAYTOl and also HYAN S. KRAFT, aloo known

aS IY KRAFT, but after thay were unuccessful for various reasons in sotting

- 3"

CONFIDSAUTIAL

• NH 54460 DooId: 32338752

Page 3

---

## Page 4

COMMIUS

mins

or consent, BIBErMAN conforted with her, and eecured hor immechat

consent according to Confidontial National Dofense Intormant LA Biol

The "Labor Herald", Fridays April 30, 1913, 1ssu0,

has

the following to bay obout the contribution of Hollywood to this great

rally:

"Hollywood, film eapital of the morid, brought out ita

beat performore for the great rally. Preceding MURRAYle talk

was a dramatic sidt written, directed,

and asted by top flight

performers from movisland.

Authore of the play woro PAUL JARRICO

and EARL ROBINSON; BRBERT BIBERIAN, wall know Hollywood and

broadray director, staged the show.

The cast included LIONEL

STANPEC, LENA HORNE, MARC LAVRENCE, FRED GRAFY,

ART SaITH,

VICTOR KILTAN, DANNY MANU, BLLIOLI

SULLTUAN, and STEPHEN BARCLAY,"

JARRICO, 1t will be recalled,

zesociate of BIBERMAN in the past, le a menbor of the LEAQUE OF AMERIGAN

YAITERS, the HOLLYWOOD VRITERS MOBILIZATION, and was an instructor at the

School for Writers sponsored by the Hollywood Chapter of the IlAGue or

ANERICAN VRITERS.

Ma bruo name is believod to be ISRAEL SHAPIRO. LIt

Appeared to Confidential National Dofenso Inforant LA He-l that TOM VAN

DYkE, a know Communist and newscaster on tho CIO "Our Datly Bread" progran,

parforned the liaison work between CONNELLY and BIBERNAN, it having been

noted by the informant that VAN DIlE would leave naterial at LARRY EDMUNDig

Books Shop for BIBERMAN at t he request of CONNELLY.

Informant advised that

this material referred to tha script which CONNELLI had the final o.k. on

BIBERIAN, according to the informant, spent all of Saturday, April 2ith,

at the Olymple Auditoriun directing a robearsal for the skit.

CONNELLY was aleo in attendance at the

BIBERMAN-LARSON Activity in the

HOLLYTOOD DELOCRATIC COMMITTEE

As was noted in reference report, BIBERMAN and LAWSON

were active in the HOLLYWOOD DEMOCRATIC CONDITTEE, which, according to

Confidential National Defense Infornant IA-1130, appears to be the nowest

Communist front organtastion among the lollywood motion pieture poople.

having its origin in the notion picture community.

The pamphlot specifically

states, "The Hollywood Democratie Committee la not dirootly affillated

with the Denocratic Party organiastion, although it regards the Democratie

Party as the rallying point for liberal forces in California."

In the connotion, it le interoting to moço that in ESU

CONFIDICAHIAR

1H 54460

DocId: 32338752

Page 4

---

## Page 5

TAL

June 2, 1943, Confidantial National Defense Informant LA I-1 advisad that

while BIBERMAN and an unidentified man wore in conference concerning

developmont of the poliey of the HOLLYWOOD DEMOCRATIC COMMIETEE, BIBERLAN

stated, "[hore i0 one polloy-the need for progressive sotion and that

action can come about here in Califernia only through the Democratie Party."

According to the informant, the unidentified man greed with BIBERMAN ánd

said, "Yes, and if we were

in the Southy ma

would have to progresa there

through the Republican Party." Apparently, the tacties of the Communist

Party of boring iron vithin are also in use in thie organisation d

Among the officers listed in the above mantloned

pamphlet who have been associates of BIBERNAN and LAPSON are OBORGE PEPPER,

Brecutive Secretary, Who, according to Confidential National Defense In-

fornant IA-1357, le a Comunist funetionary in the Musicians Branch of

the Northwest Section; WAILER ABEL; MARC GONNELLIS RUSSELL GIBASON; D. A.

DORAN; LOUIS HARRIS; MrS. HENRY MYERS, also known as BARBARA MYERS; and

Mrs. FRAIK TUTILE•

All of those nanod there are either officers or

nemburs of the Executive Board

Also listed as a membar of tha Exscutive

Board is JOHN HOWARD LATSON.

BASSHLANS

according to Confidential National Defense

Infomant LA BI,has formed the BBACHNOOD DEMOCRATIO COMMITTES, which 1e

affiliated with the HOLLYWOOD DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE.

It appare to be more

of leso of a precinot club composed

of people In BIBERMAN's neighborhood,

which is known as Hollynoodland.

It was ascertained on April ll, 19L3; fron this informant

BIBERMAN was plaming a rally to be sponsored by the BEACHIOOD DEMOCRATIG

COMITTEE at the Cherenoya School, Beachwood and Franklin Avemen, April

29th, at which LLoYD DAVIES, elected Councilman in the recent city elections,

will be invited to speak.

BIDERMAN suggosted that somone with a big

nand be obtained to speak for the HOLLYWOOD DElOCRATIC COMMITTEd, and

POPPER suggested GLORIA STUART who, FEPPER STATED, was always happy to

do such things. the purpose of this meting was the rally behind FAY

ALIEN, Nogress, who me engaged in a runoff for a post on the city Board

of Education, It should be noted here that FAY ALLEN received etrong

Commnist Party support in this runoft election.

On April 15, 19L3, BIBERMAN conferred with HENRY MYERS

concerning & BEACHWOOD DEMOGRATIC CLUB meting at the BIDERMAN hone that

evening in ordor to plan for the meeting at the school. It was expected

that 50 to 75 people would attend, and DINETMAN was anxious to get

EDDIE BLISCU to sing a few songo, namely, "Damn the Torpedo, "Mr. JUAREZ",

and "ir. Lincolnt. On the sane date BIBERMAN secured EDDIE ELISCU for this

CONt

ANCIl

N350

544.60

DooId: 32338752

Page 5

---

## Page 6

IFTL

It 1a to be noted that an informant of the Los Angelos

offieo reported that at a branch mooting hold that weel an announcsment

was mado of this nesting at the home of MARY ELEX, and the branch membere

were invited to attend..

MARY Ro ELEY, 5921 Chula Viste, Los Angelos,

according to recorde of Source "A", was a new member of the Communist Party,

assigned to Branch & Northreet Section, April 15, 1913. She holde

Communiat Party Book No. 36145.

All contacts by BIBERIAN in connection with t

HOLLYLOOD DELOGRATIC COMMITTEE activities noted areas folloms:

On April 29, 19L5, BARBARA MYERS contacted GALE SONDERGAARD,

congratulating her on her performance the previous evening at the BOLLYTOOD

DENOGRATIC COMMITIED rally described previously, and requested that sha nal).

a copy of her sorapt to a MARIOS CLARK, 1761 North Van Bess as he would

lice to have it.

On April 26, 1943, VERBENT BIBERIAN conferred with

GEORDE

FEPPER and requested SIBERIAN to turn in his unsold tiekets to ANN

POLLOCK, 1455 Laurel, the folloning day. This undoabtedly refere to tiekets

to the HOLLAND DEBORATIC COST rally held April 28th. dES)U

On April 27, 1943, BARBARA MYERS conferred with FERDERT

BIBERMAN, advising him that they were making a special drive, and that

IRVING PICKET bad been appointed to do the collecting. BIBIAN suggested

that ANY POLLOCK be contacted for suggestions.

On June 7, 19L3, It was ascertained by the informant

that there was to be a meeting at the home of RUSSELL LAMBEAU, 312), Beldon

Drive, Telephone - Granite 5416, that evening of the BRACHWOOD DEMOCRAYTO

COMMI TEE

A surveillance was maintained by Spectal Agent DAVID

A. MAC CULLOCH and the writer, and it was observed that HERBERY BIBBRMAN,

GALE SONDERGAARD, EDIARD BIBERMAN, and SONJA DAHL BIBERIAN entered the

IAVIKAU hone. Noother care were notod in the veinity until well past tha

time for the meeting, although an unidentified ear lot out three or four

people.

Other people scheduled to attend vere lira. SULLIVAN (possibly

BrO. ELLIOTO SULLIVAN), GEORGE VOOER, and a MisS BATESON (loot two arg

phonetie) •

Confidential National, Defense Informant IA-1133 attonded

a meeting of the HOLLYTOOD DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE, Wednesday, June 16, 1913,

at the Follywood Roosevelt Hotel, the announced purpose of which was to

take up the question of the recent soot suit riots in los Angoles. About

i 294.2.

• NH 54460 DooId: 32338752

Page 6

---

## Page 7

150 were present, most of whon are connected with the motion pieture induatry.

Informant's report states, "The usual contingant of Cormunists, follon

travelers, and sympathizare were on hand and doninated the macting."

"About one dosen Nagroes were present. No distinguishable Mexicans were

present in the audtence.*

Among the spoakore were CARL HOLTON, Director of tha

California Youth Authority and a momber of & Special Connittee appointed

by Governor VARREN to investigate the Zoot Suit activittes. He mado no

violont attacks on tho polico and lay enforcement agenelos. (Tho Communists

blano the police and the prose for the loot Suit riots).

He renarke were

greated with a great amount of onthustasm.

Other speakere included Mrs.

CHARLOTTA A. BASS, Negroso and oditor of the "California Bagle", toelly

colorod nompepar in Los Angelos and reported follower of the Commnist

Party lino; CAREY McWILLINS, former Diractor of Housing and Inigration

In tha State of Celifornia, whom the informant desoribes as long identified

with Communist activity, and one of the National Comnitten of the AMRICAN

PEACE MOBILIZATION.

He indicted the press, the police department, and the

fifth columns for the Zoot Suit riots.

He was received with much enthusian.

JOHN HOWARD IARSON was in attondance at this meeting, according to the

informant.

BIGERMAN LAPSON DiroCt Comminist

Party Associations and Aetlvities.

on April 14, 1913, Confidential Mational Defense In-

fornant IA HB-1 advised that MARJORIE FIBlE conferred with BIBERMAN adviaing

an that the writing on the "way 2nd thing" mao incomplete." Thie undoubtedl,

refers to the script for the pageant of the Communet lay Day carnival

which, socording to Confidential National Defonse Informant IA-1357, was

On April 26, 1913; informant advised that BIBERtAN

conforged with Vuls Horth, at which time she advised him sho was being

Irvestigated by lockheed Aireraft where she is employed. She mondered

1f thoy had contacted BIBERMAN as a former enployer. BIBERMAN advised that

he had not beon contacted. (sU

On Apr11 27, 1943, BIBERMAN sent a telegram to HOPTER,

1559 North lagemont, requesting that the contact him that evening OSl

The 1942 City Directory lists VYRL HOPPED as the wife

of DE WOLF I. HOPPER, & clothes pressor.

VYRI HOPPER, coording to Source

"3", was former Secretary to GALE SONDERQAARD.

It will be recalled that

in reference roport of the

writer, it man indicated that BIBERMAN nay

have rocruited VIRI HOPPER Into the Communiat Party.

It was noted from records

-10 c

GaNG N050

• 14 54460

DocId: 32338752

Page 7

---

## Page 8

versation refers to Communist Party recruits, it should be noted that the

recruiting drive ended Mey 2, 1943, and a compilation of the recruits

should have beon completed by the date of this conference, May 11th.

Furthermore, the hortarest section is composed of shop unite, that is,

musicians are in one branch, writore in another, technicians in another,

The fact that BARBARA was in possossion of these breakdowne mould

also indicate she was either a Section Membership Director or pessibly

Recruiting Drive Director,

, of this soction. A further indication of BARBARA's

character was show on May 29, 193; when, according to the informant, she

conferrod with BIBIVAN, advising him that she would turn over all of her

"stutf" to MARJORIE FISKE since sho was "starting life over again and getting

Again, on May Ils, 1913, ELIZABETH LACH conferred with

BIBERMAN, asking BIBERMAN's advice as to who should "finish up BARBARA!S

work sinco BARBARA had suddenly gone to Now York and left all of her recorde

with ELIZABETH LEACH.

As stated bofore, all of theso indications night mean

that BARBARA AYERS was lambership Director or possibly Recruiting Drive

Director. BIBRIAN's leadership le show by the fact that whon ELIZABETH

LEACi, who is the organizer, requested that BIBERMAN name a porson to finish

up BARBARA'& work, and BIBERMAN directed that MARGARET BALIZ should holy

BLIZABETH out on the renainder, if nocossary.

BIBERKAN's dirgetion is further shown by the fact that

on ay 12, 1943, ELIZABETH LEACH conforred with BIBERIAN, and after advising

him that BARBARA AKERS had loft torn, there arosd the question as to who !'

should replacé BARBARA at a meting to be hold at the Alexandria Hotel the

following Tiriday evening, May llith.

This mesting was known to the Los

Angoles Office as being a meeting of all branch delegates to the speotal

State Convention to be hold May 23, 1943, at San Francieco. BIBERIAN told

ELIZABETH he would try and get MARGARET MALTZ to attend the meeting. Fe

then contacted MARGARET MALIZ, according to Confidential Nationni Defense

Informant IA HE-1, and told her that BARBARA MYERS had góne to New York and

would not be back until June let, and that MARAREl should take over the

Triday evening meeting at the Alexandria Motel.

BIBERNAN said, ny have a

pieco of credential material to give you for this meeting." This credential

material is known to the los Angeles Office as being the eradentials which

overy branch dolegate had to carry in order to be allowed comfusion to the

dalegate meeting at the Alexandria Hotel, May 14, 1943. According to

Confidential National Defense Informant LA-1357, each norson who is elected

as Branch Delegate was given one of these credentials. One secured by thie

informant and retained by the Los Angeles orfice reade in part ad followes

"Emergency State Convention of the Communist Party of California, May 23,

1943, 121 Haight Street, San Francieco, Celifornia " A block head then

reado, "EIGATE CREDENTAL, his name, eddress, branch, and county O

- 12 -

CON

3030

• NH 54460 DooId: 32338752

Page 8

---

## Page 9

All

ropresentative, and then listed under this the following stotement, "This

Gonrede has been offioially elected delegate to the huergency State Con-

vention of the Communist Party of Califomie to be held on May 23, 1943;

in San Francisco, California." Two lines than follow, one for the signature

of the County Organizer and one for the signature of the Delegate. These

credentiala were mado in duplicate and one delivered to the Delegate and

one transitted to the State Headquarters in San Francisco.

In view of this information Special Agente DAVID A.

MAC CULLOCE and SIMON D. LOCIER instituted a surveillance at the home of

MARGARET MAITZ, 6526 Lindenhurst, on the evoning of lay Vi, 1913, and

observed wAIT? driving her husband's car, bearing California License

7w 4053, to a parking lot near 5th and Spring, and go by foot to the

Alexandrta Hotel, Mezzanino Floor, and Into the roon where the dolegate

mocting was being held.. On the way to the meeting she topped at 6407 West

Sixth Street, whore anothor lady joined her and they proceaded to tha

meeting: This person was believed to be SADIE ORNITZ, Wife of SAM ORNITZ,

who la known to reside at this address.

Diroctive obtained by Confidential National Defense

Informant IA-1357 also verifiod that this was a mesting of branch delegates

to the State Convention, and this informant had personal knowledge of thie

1. MIX SLINE

MARGARET MALIZ, by way of identification, le the wife

of ALBERI MALTZ, President of the Hollywood Chapter of the LEAGUE OF AMERICAN

WRITERS; and an associate of HERBEKT BIBERMAN and JOHN HOWARD IANSON.:

Neither BIBERUAN nor IANBON was spotted in attendance at this meeting, but

this is not considered unusual since during the course of this investigation,

they have attended no meetings of this nature that are known. However, MALDO

SALT was in attendance from the movle industry crowd, and hs has been

associated with BIBERMAN and LANSON.

It will be noted that ALFXaNDER STEVENS

stayed at the hone of SAlt during his visit for conferonces with BIPERMAN,

LATSON, and othere on May 2nd to Lth, 1912.

identified as VERA HARRIS, wife of LOU HARRIS, both of whom attendod many

meatings at the hone of JOHl HOYARD LAYSON during the course of thie

investigation, were also observed at this meating

On May 2l, 1913, Confidential National Defence Informant

LA D-2 ado280d that fIBRAN again conforzed ith MARGANET MA, at Mich U

- 13 .

MINE DONN

: NH 54460 DooId:32338752

Page 9

---

## Page 10

"As he has gone deeyer into America'e past, Lawson has been

able. to uncover, the social and econonie forces that motivated

the people and the movements of other days, and he has found much

neglected truth.

"'One of the worst aspects of nost of our hietories ie the

falluro to personalize tho past, ' he contimuel.

"Our loaders are

made too abstract me don't learn enough about their differant

econonie and cultural backgrounds. In my lectures and in my

book I try to bring forward the actual, living variety of history.

"The book of which he spoke so casually la an American history

on which he has been working for a long time.

"John Howard Lawson's ability to bring forward the actual,

Living variety of history? le attasted by the many people who

have heard his lectures at the Writere School in Hollywood, who

have absorbed sone of his enthusias, have dolighted in his humor,

and have gons away with a new understanding.

"As there 1e no roon large enough at the Workors School to

accomodate the munbers who are expected to register for this

course, the lectures on the American Denooratic Tradition will be

given at the Unitarian Church, 2936 West Eighth Street, on Friday

evenings beginning lay 7."

This course by LAWSON bagan tiay 17, 1943, having been

set back fron ite original opening date of April 30th. Informants attended

• the 11tca sevanth, and eighth of this series of lecturos at the Unitarian

Church. Confidental National Defense Infornant LA-1357 attended the

fifth lecture and this locture was delivered by ALBERT MALIZ, subjoot of

mhose talk was, "The Negro in the Civil War.

buring thie lecturo MALTZ

wellod on the bad conditions anisting snong the Negroes, and mistreatmen

This informant advised that B. H. JAMES, 310 North Kermore, Member-

chip Director of 58A Branch, Midtown Section,

Los Angoles County Communist

Party, was in charge of tioket sales of thie meting, and WAX SCHOBN, son

Of ELLA SCHOEN, who is a Communist, according to the informant, was in charge

of literaturo salea.. A regular Conunist Party Litoraturo table was in

evidence at the meeting.

On June 18, 1943, Confidential National Defonso Infernant

LA-1350 advised that JOHY HOWARD LANSON was the speaker, having been intro

duced by BVA SHATRAN. LARSON's subjoct was the fallure of the reconstruction

period after the Civil War.

He spoke on American History botween 2075

and 1900, dwelling on the efforts of labor to unionise, the fatlure of the

negroes of that time to obtain the right to vote due to the white peolp

of the time. In this comnaction infornant advised that he read part of

€ 16 -

GON

14 54460

DooId: 32338752

Page 10

---

## Page 11

MARIS

JUIVE

a letter mrition by a candidate advocating that tho people, "shoot the Negro

down in his tracks should he attempt to vote."

Isterature at this meeting

on Juna 25, 1943, Special Agent DAVID A. MAG CULLOCH

attended the eighth and the last class of this course at which JOF BONARD

IATSON was the spsaker. The meeting lasted for one and one-half hours,during

which time IAISON discussed the history of this country from the Spanich-

American war in 1093, which, he stated ras the start of the imperialistic

trond of thie nation. He also discussed the inerease and popularity of

the Socialiat novement from 1900 to 1912, reflecting in the increasing

popularity of EUGENE V. DEES.

Ho stated that out of the firat world war

cane the firet and greatest Demoratic state, the Soviet Union. With the

increase in pover, the Imperialietic nations, the fifth column, and the

Fascists began a plan toward the dastruction of the U.S.S.R. and United

States even sent troops to Siberia, refusing to recognize the Soviet union.

He stated that the attack by Germany against Russian forces June 22, 1941,

was perfoctly logical and that the U.S.S.R. was the only state botusen

Gernany and the United States because of its great strength as a Democratic

power e

Concerning the race riota, the zoot suit riote, ete., recently

occurring in Bomumont, Texas, Detroit, and Loa Angeles, he stated that

they were not just chance occurrences, but wore. planned by the Faseist

clich column, and to look upon then as morely a social problen was to

miss the point as the real reason was deeper than that and that the only

way it could be solved would be the exposure of the Axis agonts active

in our nidst. The entire speech was in rogard to the Fascist fifth

column at work in the United States spreading race hatred, discrimination,

and red-baiting

Not once was the war with Japan mentioned. According

to Agent HAC CULLOCH, whose information i0 contained in a memoranduntor

the file dated June 26, 1943, the entire meeting was pretty well sunned

up by an unidentified lady mo, on leaving the hall, casually remarked,

"fe said nothing revolutionary whatever or new, but the manner he has of

saying things gives one new faith in his boliefs."

Confidential National Defense Informant IA-1357, who

also attended this moting, advised that there were approsimataly sixty

paroons present and it appeared to him to be the same crowd that he hae

seen at othor Communist meetings, forun, ete

At the meting on June 18th, Confidential National

Defense Informant Il-1358 advised that there more approsimately forty-

five parsone presont. Copies of the reporto of theme informants, together

with the receipts they obtained from the matings of suna l8th and fi

25th proporty identified, are being made serials in thie file. on A

At the final mooting of thie claso EVA SHAFRAN announced

CO

601M9-19100

•14 54460 DocId: 32338752

Page 11

---

## Page 12

001

1111 conduct inquirtes about BILLIE EKEL, in care o$

ITZLIAN EKUL'S TEA ROOM, 345 Bast Seventh Street, Long Beach, California,

(telephone - Long Beach 6-1065).

T$21 contact the appropriate officers of the W. I.

CRANT COMPANY, 310 South Spring Street, to ascertain the Identity and

Communistic tendenoies of B. A. BARTH.

11 ascertain subject BIBERMAN's activition prio

o his leadership in the Amorioan Peace Mobilization througa confidentia

National Defense Informant tA-1238.

CON

IDENTIAL

÷14 54460

DocId: 32338752

Page 12

---

