# docid-32371723

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

-----===

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10161-10531

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

Released under the John

F. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 53295 Date:

06-15-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

: R L BANNERMAN, DD/ SECURITY

TO : DENNIS A FLINN, D/SECURITY, STATE

TITLE

: OBTAIN

A STATEMENT FROM ADRIAN E. SHERMAN

DATE

: 05/14/1954

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS

: OBTAIN

STATEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/30/97

COMMENTS

JFK45

: F29 : 1997.11.30.10:08:30:340108

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10161-10531

HT 53295

DocId: 32371723

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECHEF

Jh May 195h

Dennis A. Min,

Director

of Security

Demartment of State

21st and Virminia Aveme, Mor

mastiation, D. C.

John for, Regional security Officer

Major adrian F. hamina

Lear sir:

ir. Ford requested a representative of this agency to obtain

a sustened from Dajor icrian. Sherna, an enplojoe of this agency,

conearning e stsuement that snerman is alleged to have made that

the state repartent insi lution were nr. furd is presently

located "is full of homosexuals".

Tho above request for information was infornally made and

transmitted to this office through channels of this organication.

Hajor Fherman has been interviewed and ho advises that he

never made any such statement as alleged.

He further advises

that he has no Information which would indicate any possible

tendoncies on the part of any employee of the State ieparonent.

it 1s requested that lit. Ford be advised through mar

channals of the above results of the interior.

Sincerely,

k. L. Bannernan

Deputy Director of Security

Distribution:

Original & loc

Icc

Adse

FE

Attachments:

Dispatch - FPSA - 1653

Dispatch - EPSA - 1652

cc: file

HH 53295

DocId: 32371723

Page 2

---

