# docid-32327881

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10122

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3960-130

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/16/1970

33

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : . RPT

v9.1 .

DocId: 32327881

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

PATE: 11-14-2017

NY •92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE (cont 'a)

COHN learned from GRANELLO's close friends that

It was their feeling that the latter was

"hit" because he

was making too many inquiries seeking the identity of the

assailants of his son MICHAEL. COHN feels that LEVINE might

know more about what was going on but that he would never

divulge this information to the FBI.

COHN feels that LEVINE

would confide in him and whatever information he receives,

he would make available to the NYO. COHN said that at

this point he does not represent LEVINE, but that the latter

wants him to represent him in his pending WPPDA matters.

COHN said he has made no decision in this respect. COHN

Indicated that his motives for cooperating with this Bureau

was that he became quite friendly with GRANELIO and abhorred

his violent death. He said that he had been contacted by the

NYCPD, but that he would rather provide this information to

the Bureau.

COHN was told that the NYCPD had primary juris-

diction in the murder and that the Bureau was cooperating

with the PD and was disseminating all pertinent Information.

He voiced no objections to disseminating information to the

PD that he might provide. COHN indicated that he would be in

touch with the

NYO, FBI, in the event any pertinent infor-

mation

comes to his attention.

It should be noted that ROY COHN requested that his

identity be kept concealed, therefore, the results of the

interview with him is being reported

on the administrative

page.

INFORMANTS

Source

NY T-1

NY 4346-C-TE

Contacting Agent

SA THOMAS DUFFIN

NY T-2

NY 7446-PC

SA PAUL J. STAPLETON

NY T-3

NY 5392-C

NY T-4

NY 4346-C-TE

SA JOSEPH FANNING

SA THOMAS DUFFIN

+ C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32327881 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS (cont'a)-

Source

NY T-5

NY 4461-0

NY

T-6

NY 3610-C-TE

NY T-7

NY 5924-PC

NY T-8

NY 6158-C-TE

NY T-9

NY 7446-PC

Contacting Agent

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA EUGENE FITZPATRICK

SA MICHAEL POTKONJAK

SA EDWARD J. DOHERTY

LEADS

BOSTON

AT PAWTUCKET. RHODE ISIAND. Will interview A. VITALE,

who is reportedly connected with the Jet Travel Service and

determine if he was with subject GRANELLO on the evening of

9/24/70, in Vincent's Clam Bar, NYC.

Will also identify DOLORES, the female who

accompanied VITALE and who also was present at Vincent's,

and interview her for any pertinent information.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. CH Office

is requested to

furnish results of investigation requested

by ny airtel,

11/4/70.

-D-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32327881 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: ' 11-14-2017

92-1108

On September 26, 1970, JIMMY "JUMPS",

a close

associate of GRANELLO, contacted source at the latter's place

of business to pick up three pairs of slacks that GRANELLO

had ordered from informant.

The slacks were to be furnished

to a doctor who was treating GRANELLO's brother.

JIMMY

"JUMPS" told source that SALLY had not béen around for a

couple of days but that he was not to say anything since

he did not exactly loo GRANELLO's whereabouts.

Informant

said that since Saturday he has had no contact with GRANALLO

and does not know his present whereabouis. Informant said

this is very unusual because SALLy is usually on the phone

with him every day.

Informant could fumish no information

as to GRANELLO's present whereabouts and he feels certain

that JIMMY

"JUMPS"

lows nothing of his unereabouts.

Informant said that on Wednesday night, september 23,

1970, GRANSLIO Called on him

and invited him to have a drink

at the Parle Sheraton -Lounge.

When informant met with GRANSLID,

he was accompanied by an individual named MIle (Last name unknown)

(INU) who informant described as being formerly connected with

Hevana Race Track.

Informant said that GRANELLO mentioned

to him that that evening he was going out to the airport to

pick up GeorGe LavINe and inquired whether informant was in-

terested in going along.

Informant declined the invitation

but understood that GRANaLLO had the services of a limousine

and

chauffeur which he was using that night.

The limousine

and

chauffeur reportedly was

being provided

by the Swing A

Knit Corporation.

The driver was

with grey-black wavy hair, who

was believed to

= white malerge an olû

husky build,

friend of GRANELLO.

Informant said that approximately two or three weeks

250,

he was having dinner with his girlfriend at the Monsignore

Restaurant, when by chance he bumpedinto CHARLIE TOURINE

also known as laka Charlie White.

He said that his common-.

law wife had Inown CHARLIE fos a couple of years and had a

conversation with CHARLIE COncerning SALLY GRANELLO. CHARLIE

TOURINE mentioned to informant's girlfriend that source should

have nothing to do with GRANELLO, that under no circumstances

should he lend him any money and that he gradually should break

up their acquaintanceship.

Informant said that his girlfriend

does not particularly like GRANELLO and wanted to get soire

independent information about GRANELIO's staius and how he

was recruited by other mob members.

in 3 -

DocId: 32327881 Page 4

---

