# docid-32300849

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10184

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-596

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

JRO, ASSOC, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45945 DocId: 32300849 Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rex. 10-29-63)

... •

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

RE:

FBI

Date: 6/27/64

AIR MAIL

(Type in plain text or code)

REGESTERED

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113C)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

The following information was received during the

past week from LA 4268-C:

ROSSELLI was at the Friar's Club

talking with MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN, IRVING J. LEFF, IRVING

LINK, ABE VICKTER and AL BRODKIN. BRODKIN is the man who

has been previously observed with FRIEDMAN and who drives a

Rolls Royce automobile registered to the Waters Holding

Corporation, 122 Glendon, Westwood, Los Angeles, California.

was overheard to say,

ROSSELLI that EARI CHISHOLM wanted' and then informed

, talk to ROSSELLI.

known at the present time.

On Monday, 6/22/64, ROSSELLI was at the Friar's

Club during the afternoon and was observed in conversation

with BEN TEITELBAUM, MOE GENSER and IRVING LEFF. Informant

stated that ROSSELLI was not drinking and complained about

having stomach trouble, and did not look well.

ROSSELLI was at the Friar's Club on the 23rd of

June and was playing cards and appeared to be physically ill.

- Bureau

- Las Vegas (Info)

1 - Los Angeles

HFD : jcm

(5)

REC-9

92-3262-596

ST-117°

JUN 29 1964-1

Approved:

UDS

sperial Agent in Charge

Sent

NW 45945 DocId: 32300849 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113C

On Wednesday, 6/24/64, ROSSELLI arrived at the Friar's

Club at about 4:30 PM and left

shortly thereafter.

He

returned shortly before 6:00 PM at which time he was very

intoxicated and was talking in a loud voice.

He invited

IRVING J. LEFF to have dinner with him and told LEFF that his

was cooking dinner that evening?

LEFF declined the

invitation, and ROSSELLI was still at

the Friar's Club at

6:15 PM.

Latter part

on 6/24/64

PCI, advised that in the

a Sunset Strip restaurant

and bar, and that they were accompanied by an attorney Irom

Washington, D.C., by the name odetoRGAnshe described

Caus

MORGAN as a tall, good looking man with dark, partly gray hair.

It is believed that this is the same ED MORGAN,

Attorney, who has on occasion been retained by BELDON KATLEMAN,

part owner of the Hotel Last Frontier Corporation.

LA 4268-C advised on 6/26/64 that ROSSELLI was

present at the Friar's Club on the afternoon of 6/25/64.

OTHER 4

- 2 -

i : '.

NW 45945 DocId: 32300849 Page 3

---

