# docid-32399434

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10112-10264

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HALL,

FRED H.

TO : KING,

JOSEPH, DD/S, I&S

TITLE : MEMO:

CROZIER, ROSS

L.

DATE

: 06/28/1960

PAGES

:2

SUBJECTS

CLEARANCE

JFK ASSASSINATION

CROZIER ROSS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

06/22/04

COMMENTS

:

JFK41 : F5 :

20040112-1033647

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10112-10264

HH 53294

DocId: 32399434

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Atto

CC/OS/TR

M. Joseph King

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Operational Support)

#112569

2Ü JUN 1900

DDS/I&S

ADDSTES

Chie:/SSD

Dep Chief

A to Chiel

Ch. C&R

Ch. SAD

Ch.

115. Br.

De::: 16-3

Daz:

Ad & Trng

cannons

1. Reference is made to your menorandum dated 13 May 1960

requesting that Subject be granted an appropriate security.

clesrance to permit his utilization by CC/OS/TR. It is under-

stood that Subject is currently in the United States and will be

here for a period of tvo years and that li Division has offered

Subject's services in connection with practical exercises

arising out of training activities on a "as needed" basis.

It is further understood that Subject will not have access

to Agency buildings and ISLIP. It is contemlated that he

will have access to such safehouse facilities as is requirad

by the respective training exercises and will be introduced

to and know: trainees by training allases only.

It is

further understood that Subject will not be used with liaison

personnel nor foreign nationals who will serve in the South

American area.

2.. This is to advise that a covert security clearance

Is granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your

request as set forth in paragraph 1, above. it is understood

that Subject will remin the administrative responsibility of

WH/Mexico, who will continue to provide work for subject.

3.

A memorandus containing pertinent information

regerding Subject is being farvarded conourrently under

separate cover.

Subjects of covert security clearances are not to

represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as,

ennloyees of CIA.

5=

Your attontion is called to the fact that a covert

security clearance does not constitute complete compliance

with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore,

if you should desire at a later date to change the status

or use of this individual, e request for clearance to cover

Muris

+ 03 6H.00

Files

-SECRET

NW 53294 DooId: 32399434

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

6. This clearance becomes invalid in the event the

Subjoct's services are not utilized within six months of

the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY.

od B. Hall

artb

BOLLING/ cas

16 June 1960

CLOSED

SEGRET

HH 53294

DocId: 32399434

Page 3

---

