# docid-32301658

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USe 2101 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10278-10493

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 97-4474-228, 229

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, JK

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

08/18/1965

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, PLAN, MERCHANT SHIP, JK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USN, USCG

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO USN, USCG, INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32301658

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released inier the

DATE :11-14-2017

FD=36" (Rev.. 5-22-64)

Kenner

scinati

Collect

Hovey.

F BI

Date:

8/20/65

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

R

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, JACKSONVILLE (105-1165)

SUBJ:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRE)

IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ReJkairtel 8/18/65.

HEREIN IS UNGLASSITILU

on 8/20/65 t. Commandex A. C.4Aon, u. 85

BY SPs&JAGeL

•BOXST CAT (JFK)

Guard, Jacksonville, furnished an additional list ofvessels

scheduled to arrive

at Jacksonville during the period 8/23-25/65:

Arrival

Vessel

Registry

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/24/65

8/24/65:

8/24/65.

8/25/65

8/25/65

8/25/65

8/25/65

ASCANIUS

CORAL, VENTURE

MARTHA

CARLOS MIGUEL

SUNPALERMO

PADRE ISLAND

LUTJEBURG

Mo L. GOSNEY

TI CONDEROGA

GULF PASS

TREMORVAH

ESSO NEW YORK

United Kingdom

United Kingdom

West German

Columbian

Italian

Panamanian

West German

American

American

American

United Kingdom

American

Commander TAYLOR stated that none of the vessels

listed on the pertinent dates for arrival in Jacksonville is

listed as a vessel which has made stops at Cuban porte. /He

stated in effect all the vessels are "clean."

Close contact being maintained with Commander TAYLOR

and any pertinent developments will be promptly furnished.

TICA

- Bureau (RM)

2

- Miami (RM)

1

-

(Info)

1

Tampa (RM): (Info)

2 - Jacksonville

JOC: ced

(9)

REG 32

9Z4424

27%

10g

AUG 23 1965

Sent -

Agent in Charge

DocId: 32301658 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released undes the John f. Kenhedy Assassination Records Collection Ait öf 1992 T11 USt

2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

; 'FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

CF

SECRET

FBI

Date:

8/18/65

Transmit the lAOHAS NO OBJECTION TO

AI

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

EASE OF CIA INFORMATONR MAIL - REGISTERED

IN THIS DOCLIMENT, $ 7-29-97

(Priority)

TIE INFORAATION C

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FrOm:

SUBJ:

SAC, JACKSONVILLE (105-1165)

Classified by

dint so un

Declassify on: One 35/86

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

→ 50/51

IS - CUBA

9803 sold

kel 211326

HARE SHONN

Re Miami teletype 8/16/65, captioned matter.

Logical informants

and appropriate law enforcement

2 officials in Jacksonyille and Duval County have been alerted

to allegations that wiiR was making plans to sink an unidenti-

fied merchant ship in. Jacksonville on 8/24 or 25/65 by attach-

ing a mine to this vessel Security office of the U. So

' Installation at Mayport, Florida, was also alerted.

• It. Commander A. G. TAYLOR, Office of Captain of

the Port, U.S. Coastguard, Jacksonville, furnished a list of

vessels which at the present time will arrive during the period

of 8/23-25/65 in Jacksonville as follows:

SEE REVERSE

Arrival

Vessel

ASSIFIED

-19

DEN

• 8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23/65

8/23-24/65

8/23-24/65

8/23-24/65

8/24765

8/25765

Gulf Lyon

Corun

Admiral Bastian

Vettor Pisani

Fidelity,

Thomas. Maer'sk

: Nordhval

antusambo:

Oleander

Schwarzenfels

***REG- 54

Registry

American

Tunisian

West German

Italian

Panamanian

Danish

Danish

EX-100

Belgian

Netherlands

West German

97-44742

1

AUG 2'0. 1965

SIDE TUR

CLAS-TrICAITO

Bureau

(RM)

- Miami (RM)

- Savannah (RM)

1

^ Tampa (into)

2 -JacksonviLle

JOC: ced

(10)

SECRED

DAUG 3

#. Wick

49

Sentr-

97-44740

NIỊN

_ M

Per!

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32301658 Page 3

---

## Page 4

F-Heleased under the John F.

DATE: 11=11-2017

Assassination Records Collection Aot

TUSK

Hote]

JK 105-1165

SE

Commander TAYLOR indicated there may be other

ships arrive and he will promptly alert the Jacksonville

Division.

Commander TAYLON F8032

adso advised that the steamship

IRISH POPLAR, Iranian registry, will arrive 8/23/65 at

Kings Bay, Georgia, to be handled by the Blue Star Shipping

Corporation.

company handles a large amount of dynamite

and other explosives..

There is also located at this port an

Army installation handling explosives Commander TAYLOR was

of the opinion that a logical targét of the MIRR would

ship carrying explosives.

Jacksonville is maintaining close contact with the

Commander for further developments concerning this matter.

SAVANNAH

AT KINGS BAY, GEORGIA:

Requested to alertrappropriate law enforcement

officials concerning the possibility that the steamship

IRISH POPLAR may be

the target of the alleged planned

activity Commander TAYLOR has stated in the event it is

necessary to contact the Blue Star Shipping Corporation

that he would recommend directocontact with Mr. MARION

MARTIN,

; President, whom he believes to be completely trust-

worthy.

тяма

SECRE

2-

DocId: 32301658

Page

4

---

