# docid-32146680

## Page 1

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hated.

PAIRS 11-11 201

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10079-10352

RECORD_SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-877

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG. MX,

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/12/1964

PAGES:' 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-3727

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32146680

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: - 11=14-2017

SEUREI

5/12/64

AIRTRI

TOs

JBH 5/21/93

9803 RIDD ndc 6/14/93 (JFK)

DISCTOR, YBI (105-82555)

3/24/85

Classified

Daclassify

8642 ONT/AHR

OADR

LIGAT, MEXICO OITY (105-3702) UP)

SUBJECT:

LE HARVEY OSVALD, alCa

I8 - R - CUBA

6512) 3/2/86

CLASSIFED BY 5668 SLO/GCL

hirt

25X (1) 6)

ReBucab 4/30/64.

HOX10O CItY OffICe f11e On GARLES SAIL (BUFIle:

100-12632) reflects that he has the status of 'Inmigrado"

(permanent immigrant) In Mexico and that be departed Mexico

9/29/63.

Through informant

ranganents have been

made to revian silli's t1le de

(4)

do 2a010n to confira bia

Immigration status and determine mother or not that f1le

contains any record of his september travel.

On 5/4/64,1188 ANNE GOODPASTURE, OXA

City, advised that Maxioo Olty alriine recorde Teflect that

CHARLES SMOLTKONY and son, DENAIS, departed fram Mexico Clty

for New York City on Bastern Alrline I11ght #300, 9/14/63.

He returned to Mexico alty from dew York alty on Bastein

accompanted by his wife, HERItI

6 - Bureau

(1 - #alson section)

(2 - Dellas, 100-10461)

maxico city

(2 = NG 134-1535, C. SMAIZO)

ADe

(9)

AIRIEL

you pair release SEX ST

105-3202-827

DENTIAL

DocId: 32146660 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

SO SECRET

MC 105-3702

SMOLIKOFF had preceded her husband in traveling to New York,

going by Eastern Airlines Flight #300 on 9/9/63, accompanied

by son,

ABBOTT (Bufile 100-441277). Checks of airline

travel

relating to SMALL for the period from 9/29-10/3/64 are

not

being made

since information received from CIA, Mexico, "not

to be disseminated outside the Bureau,

" as recorded in the

report. of SA NATHAN I. FERRIS dated 11/29/63, entitled "CHARLES

N. SMOLIKOFF, aka,

" indicated that SMOLIKOFF remained

In Mextoo city following his arrival on 9/29/63 and clalmed

to be 111.

In regard to Bureau request for opinion of this

office concerning the best manner for interviewing SMALI in

case the Commission requests his interview, the following 1s

submitted:

It is suggested that

such an interview should not

be requested from the Mexican authorities because of the

difficulties previously cited of exercising control of

Mexican officials.

If such interview proves necessary, it should be

handled by an American official, preferably some official of

the Embassy who is operational abroad and would be able to

testify or give a deposition if needed as is customarily done

when official interviews are required abroad in Bureau cases.

It is believed that this could be best arranged by request by

the Bureau to the State Department in the customary manner.

The Department of State would then issue instructions to the

Embassy, which would select the proper official to handle the

Interview, and this office could cooperate closely with him.

It is suggested also that an Agent of this office

sit in with the Embassy official during the interview to

insure that the Bureau's interests are protected and pertin-

ent points covered. It is believed that SMOLIKOFF, as an

American citizen, would respond to a request from the Embassy

to appear at the

Embassy for an interview.

For the protection ofxvex-18 and NEX-IQ, fit 1S

suggested that the predication for the interview be

several American Communists who have visited Mexico,

returning to the United States, have stated that SMOLIKOFF

had been of assistance to them in many ways and that the

January, 1964, National Guardian tour was entertained by him:(

(u)

SECRET

- 2 -

DocId:32146680 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Hotely

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE

MC 105-3702

LAA

conseguently, it was desired to determine whether or not

OSWALD had contacted him or visited his store. In the event

SMOLIKOFF claims that he was not in Mexico City when OSWALI

in this area, 1t is felt that the interviewer could point

out to him that the airline records show that he left for

New York on 9/14/63 and. returned on American Airlines 9/29/64

and that the airline manifests do not show any other travel

by him in the period prior to 10/3/63.L It is felt this

approach would direct attention away from effective Informants

of this office t

With respeet to the type of

assistance given by

SMOLIKOFE to visiting American Communists this matter again

was discussed with MEX-18 and MEX-19&on 5/5/04.

The informants

aavised chate

according to ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA (Bufile

interest to visit; and advising

them where they can purchase

Items in which they are interested.

SMALL helps them make

appointments with other American Communist Group in Mexico

(ACGM) associates they desire to meet whose addresses they do

not have, cashes checks for them and performs similar services.

nists

as

According to MORALIsMOLIKOFF assists visiting Commu-

described above 1f he is impressed by them; if he

does not like them, he merely gives them one of his business

cards, tells

them

call him if he can help them, and dis-

misses them.

The above description of the assistance rendered by

SMOLIKOFF coincides with the information previously received

from CIA, Mexico, classified

"SECRET and not to be disseminated

outside of the Bureau.

"(

Inasmuch as the type

assistance given visiting

Communists by SMOLIKOFF may become an issue during any official

interview with him by American Embassy personnels NEX-18 and

MEX-I9Xhave been instructed to cease further efforts to obtain

more specific information

in this regard in order not to

jeopardize their status.

With respect to Bureau instructions that a letter-

head memorandum be submitted recording the number of informants

contacted who could not furnish information that OSWAID had(

SEGRET

DocId: 32146680 Page 4

7994: - 3 -

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CoVection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

CON.203N

MC 105-3702

EARET

visited SMALL's business establishment, it is pointed out

ha't the survey of informants concerning OsWALe was comoteve

nd reported by airtel dated 4/30/64 Other tharmvEx-1

MEX-194 the informants who would be in

position to have some

the letterhead

submitted.

memorandun requested by the Bureau

Information concerning assistance given by SMOLIKOFF to

American Communists was furnished by Informants orally to

SA NATHAN I, FERRIS on 5/5/64.

SECRET

CONNISEN 4NL

DocId: 32146680 Page 5

---

