# docid-32313815

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10333-10022

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:, WMFO

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 04/15/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

HANK GREENSPUN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32313815

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Relea

¿the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

017

RÉPORTINE OFFICE

WASHINGTON. FIELD

TITLE. OF CASE

GYULA LAKOS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFCENTIAL

SECREL

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

WASHINGTON FIELD

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

APR 1 5 1960

1/31 - 4/11/60

REPORT MADE BY

CLARENCE A. GROOMS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

blb

AND TRFORMADION CONTAINED

UDRETN TO UNCCASSIVTRD EXORPS

SOUT C8

(INTERNAL SECURITY - HU

(S)

94

Classif

нис

REFERENCES

Declassity on: 0708 SPK

AENCIES

kcB5

10716

Bulet, 12/9/59 and WFO airtel 2/1/60. U

APPROPRIN

AND FINLA

ADVISED

SS 01218996

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The subject has been under

'(fisur)on

following

dates with only routine activity being noted:

(2/36, 20; 3/2, 4, 6, 17, 24, 25, 32: 412/60 304) 08)

-identities of the Agents who participated

fisur are located in WrO file 105-15084

ASSIMED BY5668 SLA

DATE FOR G- 15-61

CLASSIFY ON: 25X.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Jams H dall

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

- Bureau (105-44609)

— Cleveland (Info) (RM)

2

New York (105-16927) (RM)

Newark (RM)

Pawade 1ph1a ((205-5491)(1n30) (RM)

COPIES

Washington Field (105

45084)($)

₴ 8°

HUN: 26

1-15- 68

DEXCIN

DO NOT WHITE IN SPACES BELOW(S

1/05|

-44609-10

REC- 82

SS APR 1 3 1960

EX 109

36 C

AGENCY

REd.

RECD

TO2W.

RAB (C)

4-20-70

Hate (hy letter)

SECRET

Eat 41 259 on. 3-21-78

CONFLNTIAL

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

DocId: 32313815

Page 2

---

## Page 3

pReDaTE 1-de-201e John P. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Nate).

WFO 205-15084) (5)

SECRE

CON XENIAL

A review of the subject's file and information

from established sources reveal no information that the

subject is acting in an intelligence capacity or that

he is acting outside the scope of his assigned duties. (SJ

However, in view of his activity in the commercial field,

WFO is recommending State Department authority be obtained L S

to conduct continued surveillance of the subject in order

that his commercial activity and contacts can be determined

A separate communication making this request is

being submitted. U

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

WF T-lis

WF 952-S* (5)

File Where Located

WE T-L

is

WE 527-S* 0>

WE T-3 is

ROBERT B.

CARSONS

Yu 139(822 Sub A-52/6)

APSI - DESECO(6) >

WE T-4 is CIA CU

(Information

furnished

to SA ROBERT H. BURKART

on 3/9/60)

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed and I symbols were utilized in this report only in

those instances where the identities of the sources must be

concealed. U

LEADS

CLEVELAND DIVISION (INFORMATION)

•On copy of this report is designated for the

Cleveland Office for information in view of the subject's

contact with HERMAN GREENSPUN and investigation requested

of GREENSPUN by WFO.

- B

COVER PAGE

CRIGINAL DOCUMENT SENT TO

NATIONAL ARCHIVES (JFKARCA)

DATE

SECRET

no attrit

CONSENTIAL:

DocId: 32313815 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WEO (105-25084X9)

CAG: 61b

On March 28, 1960, WF T-2 advised that MARK J.

New Yorkinterest in

New York,.

purchasing generators manufactured by the Ganz Factory, LSJ

in Hungary According to the informant, the subject (SJ

was not familiar with the item but requested RAYMOND

to outline the nature of his request in writing and

that he would follow through on it and recontact

RAYMOND as soon as the information is received.

On February 2, 1960,

WE T-2 advised that

HERMAN GREENSPUN, 3842 Washington Boulevard, University

Heights, Cleveland.

Ohio, was in contact with the subject

at which time he related that he is interested in buyin.

antique jewelry from/Hungary and anticipates making a CS

buying trip to Hungary in July or August, 1960. According (S

to the informant, the subject assured GREENSPUN his full

cooperation and requested GREENSPUN visit with him lat theSJ

Legation prior to making the trip in order to talk matters

On February 23, 1960, WF T-2 informed that

GEORGE STEINER,

419 Fourth Avenue, New York City, was.)

in contact with the subject and expressed an interest

in buying Hungarian coats made out of sheepskin withS.

the inside

of wool and also an interest in buying

leather.

STEINER extended an invitation to the subject

lunch with him on the occasion of his next visit

to New York City.

Previously, on February 2, 1960, this informant.

dvised that STEINER had been in contact with JANOS BARTHA L≤

elative to purchasing these items and that (BARTHA requested CS.

STEINER to submit a letter describing his proposals and that

he would look into the proposition.

- 14-

CRIGINAL DOCUMENT SENT TO

NATIONAL ARCHIVES (JFKARCA)

DATC

DocId: 32313815 Page 4

---

