# docid-32303596

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10108

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-30067-17, 18

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recordi

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, SE

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/01/1944

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

JOP, ADIMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC RPT

V9.1

14 53130

DooId: 32303596

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

19-72

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

85392

THIS CASE CRIGINATED AT

SAN EPANCISCO

DATE WHEN

MADE

7/1/44

FILE NO. 100-1465

SUIL FRANCISCO

TITLE

G

JOHN PITTIAN

PERIOD FOF

SHICH MAO

6/14,15,16,17

6/22/44

REPORT MADE BY

RAYOND RICHARD BRICKELSBERG

CHARACTER OF CASE

emi

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

ubject resides at 07 Pleasant Street and is stil

employed as lianaging Iditor of the POPLE'S WORLI

newspaper, Sai, Calif Me continues to be active

in various C.P. activities.

REFERENCE:

-Pia

Report of Special Agent LEO L. SCHON dated lovember

ó, 1943, at San Francisco, California

DETAILS:

The subject's name is carried on the Key Figure list of the

Communist Party in the

San Francisco Field Division.

AT SIN FPINCISCO, CLIFORNIA:

Through inquiry at the United States Post Office, it was as-

certained that subject is'still receiving his mail at 67 Pleasant Street,

San Francisco,

California.

Subject is still employed as lanaging Iditor of

the PEOPLE'S ¡DRiD, Connunist Party

"est Coast Daily newspaper,

_SOURCE advised this office in December, 1943, that while

subject was on liis last visit to New York, he was entertained by PAUL ROBE

SON negro singer.

SOURCE 3 advised that subject had participated as a speaker

in the campeign of OLaT: O'CONNOR SITES,

for Supervisor in the Fall of 1943.

stated't hat in

December, 1943, PITTIN had been selected

to introduce irs, I:DaS, County Secretary of the Communist Party,

over a san Francisco Radio Station on the inniversary of the Bill of Rights.

14141: 1N.G

AS ASE*

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

100-300 67-18

5 -

Dureau

2 - Coi, Sar Francisco

3 - San Proncisco

i-mu

002Y IN PELK

(OrDEZRO

146

COPIES DESTROYED "

74 53130 DocId: 32303596

Page 2

---

## Page 3

85396

San Francisco File #100-14,65

SOURCES OF INFOR TION:

SOURCE A Confidential Informant SE #9"

SOURCE B:

Confidential Informant ST. /1175, who furnished what

appears to be a typewritton rough draft of a lettor addressed to subject at

the PROFLE'S WORLD, bearing typowritten signature "IIO."

" letter which instructs that all Congressman who are working

with the Congressional Conmittee to protect consumers should be dramatically

oxposed; also that subject should assign some one on the staff of the PEOPLE!S

WORLD to bo responsiblo for getting information on the Farm Consumers question.

SOURCE D furnished this office with the Jenuary I, 1914 mom-

bership report of the worth Beach Club, which included subject's name as a

membor of that club. On lay 11, 1944, this Source furnished a typewritten

list of namos under

the heading Fraternal Delegates, which included subject's

name and which is belioved to bo a list of Fraternal Delegatos who were in-

vited to ittend the Commnist Party State Convontion lay 7, 1944, in San

Francisco.

SOURCE B furnished one of the enlarged invitations to tho

recoption in honor of JMES FORD, roflocting that subject and his wife served

as Patron and Patroness. SOURCE B furnished a discardod lir bil onvolope,

Spring Stree, Los ingelos, California.

SOURCE Balso furnished a list of

County Committee members for San Francisco County, which roflected that subject

was a member of that Committee although it is not certain on what date the

list was prepared.

SOURCE C: Confidential Informant SE 613, who advised in Nov-

ember, 1943, that subject was a member of the San Francisco County Committee

of the Communist Party.

SOURCE D:

¡donfidential Informant SF. #939%

SOURCE DA, Confidential Informant SI /4050T

SOURCI DE Confidential Informant SF 12,3027

SOURCE G: " Confidential Informant SP#1159

SOURCE H: Confidential Informant SF 980 L

-5-

HH

53130

DocId: 32303596

Page 3

---

## Page 4

853919

San Francisco File 1100-14,65

SOURCE I:

SOURCE J:

pril 27, 1944°

SOURCE

Confidontial Informant

SE #1130

Reporting igent, who attended the JitS FORD mecting

ONE.

INFY.

#13321

The above sources have been designated as such in ordor to

more fully protect thoir identities.

-6-

74 53130

DooId: 32303596

Page 4

---

