# docid-32294585

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10213-10361

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-90

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO:

SAC. MM

TITLE:

DATE: 10/15/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

08/01/1995

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32294585

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released inder the Join Fy Keny

DATE: 11-14-2017.

14 USC 2107 Hote)

FEDÉRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGARION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 1

1976

TELETYPE

o 1221302 Oct

75

EM/ CARACAS 12~91

(P)

-TO DIRECTOR IMMEDIATE

NR

174-12

•UNSUBS; SUSPECTED BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DO $ NEAR BARUADOS,

WEST

INDIES, OCTOBER Sy 19756 NY - CUBA- WEST INDIES•

1976, LEGAT, CARACAS, MOVISED THIRT

DENNIS RAMDAR, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF POLICE, TRINIDAD,

AND TOBAGO POLICE FORCE, PORT OF SPAIN TRINIDADS ARRIVED IM

CARACAS ON OCTOBER IIe 1976, TO CONSULT WITH VENEZICLAN AUTHORI

TIES REGARDING THE CUBANA AIRLINES CRASH. LEGAT HAS BEEN ACQUAINED

WIIM DEPUTY COMMISSIONER RAMDWAR FOR SEVERAL YEARS A RANDWAR

TOLEF HONED LEGAT AX HIS HOME AT APPROXIMATOLY 10:15 PM OR OCTOBER

ArLI

r l1s 1976

STATED HE WAS AT THE RESIDENCE OF THE TRINIDAD ANBAS-

A

SADOR AND REQUESTED A MEET INS WITH LEGAT. QUATUS

LEGAT PROCEEDED TO THE RESIDENCE OF THE TRINIDAD ADBASSADOR

THEN

SUNDRE HE PICKED UP RAMOWAR AND THEY

FROCEEDED TO.TIE TAMANACO

HOTEL , WHERE THEY CONVERSED LEGAT RECOUNTED IO. RAVOWAR THE

DETAILS OF HIS CASUAL ACQUAINTANCE WITH OUS OF THE SUSPECTS, (SC(U)

2-2173-90

NOR PLE

DocId: 32294585 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under

thẹ

DATE:° 11414-2017

Reco

Note).

SAR

RAMOWAR NOTED THAT WHEN LEGAT'S NAME AND TELEPHONE NUMBER WAS

FIRST FOUND ANONG ONE OF THE SUSPECT'S PAPERS, HE THOUGHT IT

MIGHT DE AN INDICATION THAT AN ACTION MAY HAVE BEEN FLANNED

AGAINST LEGAT, NE SAID THE SUSFECT LATER DISCLOSED HE HAD BEEN

TOLD "BY HIS BOSS" TO SEE THAT INDIVIDUAL

REGAT) IF ME HAD A VISA

PROBLEM d

3 U)

PANWAR ST ATED HE HAD BEEN INSERUCIED BY THE TRINIDAD PRIME

MINISTER ERIC WILLIAMS TO. UNDERTAKE THE INVESTIGATICH OF THE

FLANE CRASH AS A CRIMINAL MATTER SIRICILY, AND NOT IO. BECOME IN-

VOLVED IN ANY POLITICAL ASPECTS, HE SAID HE THEREFORE PROCEEDED TO

CARACAS WIIM PHOTOGRAPHS AND FINGERPRINTS DE THE TWO. SUSPECTS

METENDING ONLY TO HAVS INSH

CHECKED THROUGI LUTERPOL SECTION

FILES OF INE TECHNICAL JUDICIAL FOLICE ME SAID, MOWEVER, THAT

UFON HIS ARRIVAL ME WAS MET AT INE AIRPORI BY A CONTINGINT OF

CFFICIA.S, INCLUDING THE IRIMIDADIAN AMDASSADOR, AND THAL HG WAS

PROMPTLY USHERED TO A MEETING WITH VENEZUELAM MINISTER OF

~ FOREIGN AFFAIRS, RAMON ESCOBAR SALOM. AT THE DEFICE OF THE

FOREIGN MINISTER, RAMDWAR WAS TOLD ME COULD EXPECT THE FULL.

COOPERATION AND ASSISTANCE OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. NE SAID

NE WAS INFORMED INAT THE INTERPOL SECTION WAS NOT THE APPROPRIATE

OFFIDE TO WHICH HE SHOULD DIMECE HIS INQUIRIES BUS THAT THE MATTER

VOULD BE MANLED DY DISIP. RAMONA STATED HE THEREUPON HAD A LES(K)

3

2-2173-90

DocId: 32294585 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kenhedy desassination Records Collection act of 1992 (41 USC 2101 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

FEC IN BAGE THREE CAR 12-91

LENGTHY SESSION WITH DISIP OFFICIALS WHO, PROMISED TO GATHER

ALL INFORMATION REGARDING THE TWO SUSPECIS AND TO. FORWARD ALL

DAT A DEVELOPED TO THE TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: POLICE THROUGH THE

TRINIDAD AMBASSADOR. (EU)

RANDWAR SAID HE REVEALED TO DISIP THAT IN VIEW OF EVIDENCE

DEVELOPED, HE FELIEVES ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA WAS RESFONSIDLE FOR

INE PLANE CRASH AND HE ASKED THE OFFICIALS IF BOSCH WAS IN

VENEZUELA. HE SAID HE WAS IOD IKEY WERE NOT CERTAIN AND HE

REPLIED IRAT BOSCH WAS, IN FACT, IN VENEZUELA AND THAT ME COULD

FURNISH BOSCH•S CARACAS TELEPHONE NUMEER. (OU)

HE RELATED THAT AFTER HE RETURNED TO THE AMBASSADOR'S

RESIDENCE, HE RECEIVED A MESSACE FROM PRIME MINISTER ERIC WILL TAMS®

OFFICE ADVISING MIM TO RETURN TO TRINIDAD AS THERE HAD BEEN A

"SLIGHT CHANGE OF PLAN." NE SAID HO DID NOT KNOW WHAT IHAT CHANGE

MIGHT DOO

$ u)

RAMOVAR COMPLAINED THAT HE WAS BEING GREATLY PRESSURED IN

T HE INVESTIGATION DY GUYANESE ANO CUBAN AUTMOSITIES WHO HAD

TRAVELED TO PORT OF SPAIN. HE SAID THE CUBANS WERE VERY INTENT

UPON OBTAINING CUSTODY OF THE TUO SUSPECIS, BUT IMAT TRINIDAD

WAS NOT PREPARED TO ALLOW INAI

HE INDICATED THAT THE SUSPECTS

WERE DETES BLA VITHOUS CHANCES SO FAR, AND ME HAS NOT CENTA (DU)

NO PACE THREE

2-2173-90

DocId: 32294585 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released uner the ughn Pa kenner

PATE: 11-14-2017

1992 114 U5e

Hote,

THEY COULD BE CHARGED WIIM ANY WRONGDOING: IN TRINIDAD, RANDWAR

POINTED OUT THAT ON THE OTHER HAND, BARBADOS WAS MELUCTANT TO

ASSUME JURISDICTION IN INE MATTER AND WAS PRESSING: TRINIDAD TO

BRING LOCAL CHAPGES AGAINST THE SUSPICIS ENU,

AT ONE POINT IN THE CONVERSATION RAMDWAR STATED ME WAS

POSITIVE THAT THE TWO SUSPECTS WERE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BOMSING

OF THE AIRCRATT .(LP(4)

TOWARD THE END OF THE MEETING WITH LEGATE, RANDWAR CONFIDED

THAT HIS MAIN INTEREST WAS TO CLEAR TRINIDAD OF ANY INPLICATION

IN THE BOMBING• HE SAID, THERE KAD BEEN AN ALLEGATION THAT THE

BOMB UTILIZED NAD BEEN PREPARED IN TRIMIDAD AND HE WISHED TO

REFUEE THAT REPORT NU)

RADIOWAR WAS TO. HAVE RETURNED TO PORT OF SPAIN EARLY ON

OCTORS 126 1976. 006

и)

Bong OHh

" Fat enor marion "

Merme,

SAre

JUAN AND/LEGATS,

THE

ABOVE

INFORMAI ION WAS FURNISHED TO. EMBASSY,

CARACAS, FOR DISSEMINATION TO SECRETARY OF STATE AND

INTERESTED

EMBASSIES®

Hess.

5

2-2173-90

DocId: 32294585

Page 5

---

