# docid-32303195

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10207

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-2ND NR 112, 3RD NR 112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/05/1962

3

SMO, GM, ASSOC, FGJ, WIT, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45854

DocId: 32303195 Page 1

---

## Page 2

8/8/83

258

BAG, Passeburgh (92-236)

Dire

eter, TaE (02-3914)

(92-223)

(92-2918)

CABRIZE MANITARINO, misa.

SAMUEL MADABINO, DiES.

ORIGINAL COPY FILDO IN

Rouredscal 3/5/68.

Philadelphin immodiately make proper pzzangenints

as U. B. Ponitentiasy, Lomeds

Permoyireate,

for SA Thomes

G.

Upon congloting

arrangements advino Patesturgh of dosadie and whon SA Forsych

should appoar.

This intorvion shold be accomplished on soon au

Bossible,

and pittaburgh in to promptly hamich

tho bureau

cho rosuite obtained.

2 - Philadelphia: (92-558)

RDC: rap

(8)

NOTE: Department Attorney William Kehoe requested that SA Forsyth,

who apparently has the confidence of Daniel Hanna, interview him

in an effort to further prosecutive action against the subjects.

4 4 FEB

184

141962

HW

45854 DocId: 32303195 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

2/5/v2

AIREBE

TO:

DIRECTOR, 23I (92-2414) (52-2513)

SAC, PIPSQUAOH (32-420) (92-226) (P)

AIR

1 eung tat

OTHER 4

oo 2/2/02 Departmental

condoring a P03 in ECeS

Kelon, cureopely

un inquire into too activimes

NAL COPY

si:92-2484-258

We has

for ma parcioipation in tha case uactioned "saunts curule.

et al;

2OP;

TREES FRA;

and is currentla

andarceratod in the rederal Pons utaara,

very

unhappy.

whale his convlosed corsetondnova

are

6ah 106

treir inpriconments in the cost

Localude 0-12160,

ANANDA

beeence

inoreaniasly unsocled.

DOB AN

unfaithful spouse,

he was aluayo a toting fother,

and tro

forced separation dron his only don, a Son yoor old, Galsos

Bin srently.

When

KENNA sOS arreSted durinG the IS POLd On WE ZAGHANINS

horge rood-samuling casino 0s 0/24/02y

ABAOS 40004

that

MANHA wOUld not talk wash suyone cosnoccod win Chu PedraL

Governont unbiz ho

was snougne into

• the roderal nuiluing,

vluceburg, to await he turo at & 000 beardag

At Lat

PARO, BANDA Bao oboerved by Boine so leavo Ida docodiates

apprcech an 201877l the wao preocnt nosesy as an ougervers ara

it me notea that

spoke carnestly, BusseauBig and

ist length with SA

: 92-21/8-5

feeling that RANJA, Le ho nare covorolinayED

could make aD

excellent wienedo agalnot the MANAORGEVO 0162

RIHOE foels he should be intervioned with this juryose

in sinú at the earlioot poositie sato. Maid neauers that.

Bureau

enadadeIghis (92-524) (Into)

i - Pittaburgi

2GE/S+ (22)

184

45854

DocId:32303195 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DO 92-236

SA FORSYTH

so to Fedoral Penitenciary,

Louisburg,

to conduet

the interview,

ather than

have it conductea

by a sa fron the maladelchle asvision,

bedause SA DORSYTH

ie thoroughly convoraant with all aspects of the MANNARINO

Investigationo and has catauliched a apesking relationship with

HANNA which now might prove errectual in peraua ding HANNA

to cooperate.

It ta noted that kilog indicated that he saight have a "deal"

to offer kAmA should MANNA decide to cooperate with the

Coverent againat the HANNARINOs, At this junesurg, Kalos

waG adviaed that SA PORSyrE coula

not take any part in

dicussions concerning any deals and asi rot even want to near

the nature of the inducement RAHOE would orser WANNA.

K2302 was advised that if lureau permiasion wao received,

SA PORSVIN mould weleono an opportunity

• 8o talk with BANNA

and would bend every affert to persuade WANNA 80

cooperato,

Out SA

FORSYTh could not relay any message concerning a

"deal."

KEIO was told that any such mossage

would have to

• Be gotten to RANIA by wone other means and

REJOB replied that he underatood and sould, at the

appropriate

time, make his own arrangenants.

Dureau permlaston do therefore requested for 34 PORSYTH

to travel to federal Penitentiary, Lawleburs, Pa.. and

to Interview DANIEL, HANKA.

NW 45854 DocId: 32303195 Page 4

---

