# docid-32182914

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JrK Assassinau on system

Identification Form

Agency Information

vale.

4/ 1JILVI

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10237-10124

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-3702-1000

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

9

SEE FBI 105-82555-3909

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/19/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32182914

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI (105-82555)

Legat, Mexico (105-3702) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

IS - R - CUBA

5/18/64

CIA HAS NO. OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIE CATION ANDIOR

RELEASE GA GA AFORMAGION

My THIS GOGUVIENT.

ГBн 5/28/93

as ponitized

(9863120/9615:J7K618/99?

...

ENCLOSURES

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are twelve (12)

copies of a summary letterhead memorandum, including

Table of Contents and Index, dated and captioned as above.

REFERENCES

Bureau cable No. 59, dated 4/22/64; Mexico City

cable No. 416, dated 2/28/64.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Classifiabe

2840

Exempt from CDS, Calegor Ro 5

Joint ReportDateo Declassification Indefinite

- 14-73

The enclosed summary letterhead memorandum

constitutes joint reporting efforts of SAs FREDERICK E.

RODERICK, HONRY J. PRATI and ROLF L. LARSON. Investigation

in connection therewith was conducted by Special Agents

of the Mexico City Office as reflected in connection with

the "SOURCES" Section hereof.

Description of Contents of

Letterhead Memorandum

The enclosed summary letterhead memorandum was

prepared in an effort to compile and summarize investigation

conducted in Mexico with respect to the travel and activities

68143

5 - Bureau (Encs. 12)

11 - Llaison

Section)

Classined in 98O3RAOKEL

12 - Dallas,

100-10461)

Decisit co 220p 22.564

2 - Mexico City

RLL: jhk

(7)

1 05-3702-1000

SECREX

Doc1d: 32162914 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Hotel. :

DATE: 11-14-2017

15. 01

MC 105-3702

in Mexico of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and a large number of

allegations which developed in this country in connection

with OSWALD and the assassination of President JOHN F.

KENNEDY.

While an effort has been made to document as fully

as possible the sources of information relating to the report,

in several instances this office received information from

the Bureau or a domestic field office by telephone or cable,

with respect to which it was not possible to establish full

and complete documentation as to sources of that information;

however, in order to male the summary complete, more readable

and more congruous, some items of information were utilized

in the summary without the usual documentation thereof:

those instances, the information, as summarized, was attributed

to the Mexico City Legal Attache's files.

All the information of substance appearing in the

enchosed letterhead memorandum has been reported previously

to the Bureau in form suitable for dissemination.

A great deal of information appears in the Legal

Attache's files which was received from the

Mexico City

Station of CIA with the admonition that it "not be disseminated"

outside the Bureau, and this information has not been included

•In the summary letterhead menorandum. Much ot the above data

related to the results of CIA technical coverage of the Soviet

and Cuban diplomatic establishments in Mexico City and has

been reported to the Bureau by this office.. There also is

reason to believe that this information has been disseminated

to the Bureau by the Central Headquarters of CIA and to the

President's Investigating Commission by that agency; therefore,

Administrative Section of this cover letter

nat intonation a data are ot pete insorated site

Investigation by Bureau Agents

As the Bureau is aware, early phases of the inves-

tigation in Mexico of the travel

and activities of OSWALD

were handled by various agencies of the Mexican Government

and also by symbol informants of

this office.. Since Mexican

Government investigators were contacting numerous sources of

E]

2

SECRET

DocId: 32182914 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE:: 11-14-2017

MC 105-3702

SECRET

It was observed in several instances that Agents

were able to gain the confidence of persons whom they had

to interview on more than one occasion, as required by new

developments and additional basis for inquiry, and when new

and pertinent data not furnished at previous interviews was

obtained and inquiry was made as to why such information

had not been provided earlier, the characteristic reply

was,

"You didn't ask me."

While the following is well known to the Bureau,

it is considered worthy of mention that the investigation

reported in the enclosure is based on interviews conducted

in the Spanish language, informant reports written in Spanish,

documents and signed statements in Spanish and in accordance

with a different legal system and basic culture, and documents,

records, files and basic business procedures which differ fron

those in the United states.

Because of the effective liaison of this office

with the Mexican Ministry of Gobernacion, it was possible

to borrow originals and copies of key documents in the files

of that Ministry, although on the supervisory level from

where the documents were obtained, there was considerable

resistance to the numerous requests of this office which

required voluminous file searches for documents and to allowing

them to physically leave the premises of the Ministry in

the possession of Bureau liaison personnel for copying and

study:

It is desired to assure the Bureau that all inves

tigations conducted by Bureau Agents in Mexico have been

handled with discretion and care; however, it is quite certain

that investigative activity of this type by Bureau Agents

over an extended period of time inevitably would cause serious

embarrassment to this office and endanger the security of the

Bureau's operations in Mexico; therefore, in view of the fact

that the investigation which is outstanding in Mexico in

connection with this

case consists of efforts to identify,

SECREU

182911 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

Ch

MC 105-3702

locate and interview passengers of the buses on which OSWAlD

traveled and guests at the hotel where he stayed, every

effort will be made to resume the established policy of

handling operational investigations through liaison and

established informants in so far as possible in keeping

with the Bureau's requirements and instructions in each

instance.

SOURCES

Bureau Agents and officials of the Mexican Govern-

ment have been referred to in the enclosure by T-symbol and

as

"confidential sources abroad," and in order to obviate

the need for an evaluation memorandum in connection therewith,

symbol informants of the Mexico City Office and sources

whase identities required concealment have been described

"T- (symbol), confidential sources, who have furnished

reliable information in the past."

The identitles of those sources are as follows:

Source

Identity

First Confiden-

Mexico City Legal Attache

tial Source

Office and Legat file

Abroad•

105 - 3702

T-1

Lidc. RAFAEL, HERNANDEZ OCHOA,

Assistant Director of Central

Immigration Section of Ministry

of Gobernacion (Interior),

Mexico, D. F., Mexico (concealed

because initial information fur-

nished unofficially and on a

confidential basts).

T-2

T-3

SA ROLAND E. TRENT

SA MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

-5.

SECRET

DocId: 32182914 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Moter.

wet under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 444 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

MC 105-3702

Source

T-4

T-5

T-6

T-T

T-8

T.- 9

T-10

T-11

T-12

T-13

T-14

T-15

dentity

mation to SA ROLAND E. TRENT

MEX-225, who furnished infor-

mation to SA ROLAND E, TRENT

Lio. SANTIAGO IBANEZ LLAMAS,

Chief, Inspection Department,

Ministry oi Gobernacion Interior),

Mexico, D. F., Mexico (concealed

because information furnished on

a confidential basis):

BA ROBERT T. NISCHWITZ

SA EDWIN O. JOHNSON

[EX-27. © Furnished information

to SAs JOSEPH S. LEO and

ROBERT T. NISCHWITZ

SA ELDON D. RUDD

SA FREDERICK E. RODERICK

SAS HENRY J. PRATT and

FREDERICK E. RODERICK

SA ROLF I. LARSON

(Ix-156,J 0 furnisked information

to SA ELDON D. RUDD

VIEX - 34A

furnished information

to SA HENRY C. JOHNSON

6

SECRET

CId: 32182914- Page 6

---

## Page 7

Hotel.

used under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

S?

MC 105-3702

Source

T-16

T-I'7

T-18

T-19

1-20 .

T-21

T-22

T-23

T-24

T-25

T-26.

T-27

T-28

Identity

PABLO GARCIA ROMERO, confidential

contact at Cubana Airlines Office,

MEXICO, D. Fy

, who furnished

information to SA MATTHEW D.

CRAWFORD, IR.

CLARK D. ANDERSON, Legal

Attache,

lexico City

SA JOSEPH S. LEO

SAS ROLAND E. TRENT and

HENRY J. PRATT

SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA

SA HENRY J. PRATT

-(AXL)

who furnished

NEX-18 ALONE SA WATER TA SERRIS

(uEx-42 - mx-196. no furnished

information to. SA ELDON D. RUDD

MEX- 25] and MEX-55, Who furnished

Information

-tO SA ELDON D. RUDD

[EX-46 JR Furnished Information

to SA NATHAN L. FERRIS

(MEX-38,I C urnished Information

to SA EDWIN O. JOHNSON

SAS JOSEPH B. GARCIA and

EDWIN Q. JOHNSON

SAS JOSEPH B. GARCIA and

HENRY J. PRATT

- 7-

SECRED

DocId: 32182911 Page 7

---

