# docid-32304102

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10285-10114

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 7-6920-7088

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SL

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/11/1958

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: BBA, FINANCES, LOANS, RES, EMP, TEST, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32301102 Page 1

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SI. 70429

LEADS continued

THE ST. LOUIS DIVISION

AT ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI

will continue to maintain contact with MAY TRAYNOR and

HARRY SCHNEIDER, as well as confidential informants, potential

confidential Informants and confidential sources mentioned herein.

Will consider additional interviews with BOB and ED

JAMES, of Ace Cab Company, at the appropriate time in view of

their present attitude towards COSTELLO.

One copy of instant report is being furnished the Little

Rock Office in view of the Investigation of JOHN FRANCIS KINNEY and

WILLIAM MANSKER CLUBB by that office.

One copy of instant report is being furnished to Chicago

Office in view of the Investigation presently being conducted by

that office.

The following Information was obtained from confidential

Informants, Potential Criminal Informants and confidential sources.

SYNOPSIS:

LOUIS DONAID, SHOULDERS has refused to assist WILLIAM

MANSKER CLUBB financially and indicates CLUBB will

"snitch"

JOSEPH COSTELLO states SL 1143-C 18 an "FBI informant

and police snitch".

violence.

He indicates informant will suffer physical

When discussing his testimony on August 19, 1958,

before Senate Rackets Committee, COSTELLO stated, "Only a few

people know anything about the GREENLEASE case and they won't

talk". LOUIS DONALD SHOULDERS manifests intense hatred for TOM

BUGG, apparently because he feels BUGG was responsible for the

arTESt Of LOUIS IRA SHOULDERS on an abortion charge.

COSTELLO

received check from John J. Dowling Realty Company dated

August 8, 1958,

in amount of $8,645.95.

Information regarding

bank account of BARBARA COSTELLO, the SHOULDERS" and purchase

ot cabs by Ace cab company set out.

ROSE MART MITCHELL, friend

Of COSTELLO, Interviewed.

MAY TRAYNOR's safe deposit box records

examined.

Registration records of Mayflower Hotel, Washington,

D. Cog

regarding individuals from St. Louls, obtained. LOUIS IRA

SHOULDERS and COSTELLO "highly aggravated"

over testimony before

Senate Rackets Committee regarding instant case. Records o1

loans made to ROBERT BARNARD BAKER of Teamsters Union obtained.

DocId: 32304102 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SI 7-429

EK: sih

IDS has

also indicated that he does not like

his father's present wife, and both she and his father

know his feelings in this

respect

Previous mention has been made that IDS

advised PCI that he had been offered $10,000 to kill

HAROLD GIBBONS®

Teamsters Union OffIcial.

IDS has now

told PCI that the person who made this offer was a

Union Official from Chicago, Illinois, and who was put

In touch with LDS by BARNEY BAKED

Teanster Business

Agent, who recently testified before the Senate Labor.

Rackets Investigating Committee.

On September 4, 1958, PCI advised that she

spent the evening of September 3, 1950, with Lose but

nothing of pertinent interest occurred they went to a

drive-In and also stopped by the apartment of MARY and

BILE SANDERS, who stated

they had been at his mother's

earlier in the day.

74

DocId: 32304102

Page

---

