# docid-32314439

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10336-10087

RECORD SERIES: BS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-118-3-217

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

KEHOE, JOHN F. JR.

TO: BS

TITLE :

DATE:

08/19/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JAMES R. HOFFA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32314439

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-200 TONAL FORM NO. 10

00904÷91

UNITED STATES GOT

I NT

Memorandum

TO

: SAC, BOSTON (92-118)

FROM : SA JOHN I. KEHOE, JR.

SUBJECT:

RAYMOND I. S. PATRIARCA

DATE:

8/19/63

No Investigation should be conduated on the

Information set forth herein

if there is a possibility

of identifying the source.

GENERAL, INTELLIGENCE:

The following information was furnished by

BS 837-C* on the dats indicated:

on 8/12/63 the Informant advised that SULLY TACONI

contacted RAYMOND PATRIARCA and PATRIARCA COnDIaInEd abOut

the operations of the mdtan leado Counciy &¿¼:Weator®,

Mass.

of the way the elub was being operated.

that they should not make any changes at this time until they

i no to was both Cans:.

I connection with this contact, PATRIARCA was oritical

He said, however,

see what the government does iri regard to the investigation

relative to the club obtaining a small business loan.

PATRIARCA told ICONI that he heard that BRUNO DI CIcCO told

Internal Revenue that he paid a bribe.

this was not so and DI CICCO only told authorities that he

borrowed $5,000 out of the club money as he was in need of

sone funds.

PATRIARCA made the comment that ANTHONY SANPRAIALLO,

CARIO MASTROTOTARO and others should not even be in the club

ecause the general pubile thinks that it 1s ald gangster

If they see them in there

The informant advised that PATRIARCA said that he

plans to Institute

a l1bel suit againat the "Satu day

Evening Post" and Boaton newspapers in connection with

Boston

92-128 SUB 3)

92-118)

92-118Su63-217

SEANCHED

SENIALIZED

A 3 1 9 1303

DocId: 32314439 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS

92-118

ANGTULO tOld PATRIARCA that it is his understanding

that when a

"man" had some difficulty,

"caporegima."

he should go to his

PATRIARCA agreed and said when the

"saporegima"

disagrees with

"Consuleri."

The

decision.

can then sit down with the har

boss and they can iron the matter out or bring the "man" in,

It was noted in this conversation that ANGIULO

said that the reason that he and PETER LINONE are here with

RAYMOND 1s because

"we belong to you."

ÁNGTULO indicated to PATRIARCA Chat this came up

about. JOB BURNS going out of the area without advising

RAYMOND PATRIARCA.

PATRIARCA told ANGIULO that JOE BURNS

should have told these peoplé who made the comment about

him leaving the area without advising RAYMOND,

responsible

to the man only, RAY." He could further tell

them that if he, BURNS, was doing anything wrong, RAYMOND

would certainly

have

called him in

At the conclusion of the contact. ANGIULO was

told by PATRIARCA to tell JOE BURNS and RALPH CHONG that

he wants to meet with them doim at his place and he, PATRIARCA,

intends to put RALPH CHONG in his place here

and now.

on 8/14/63 the informant advised that THEODORE

FUGALLO and BERNARD EZHAYA contacted RAYMOND PAURIARCA at

Atwells Ave., Providence, R. I.

EZHAYA,

the former per of the detrolt and Boston

0f81c0s,

16 associated with FuCILlo in the operation of the

Eastern Supply Company:

Commercial Whart, Boston, less,

FUCILLO Cold PATRIARCA Chat FRANK CUCCHIAR waS In the

Deaconess Hospital (Boston) with gangrine of the toe but

he 1s going to be okay.

EZHAYA and FUCILLO told PATRIARCA that they had

been talking to representatives of various unions in order

to raise some funds. BHAYA mentioned that he had talked

to the boiler makers

and

ho had talked to JilMi MARis, a

lawyer who is associated with the Teamsters Union.

3 -

DocId: 32314439

Page 3

---

