# docid-32424689

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10009-10079

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CALIFANO PAPERS

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55355 Date:

11-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE - APPARENT CONTRADICTIONS: MR.

MCNAMARA VERSUS MR. MCCONE

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

12

MCCONE, JOHN

MCNAMARA, ROBERT

SOVIET MILITARY PRESENCE IN CUBA - FROG MISSILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 3. Memo to the Secretary of Defense re: apparent contradictions made

in statements by McNamara and McCone concerning Frog missiles in Cuba.

Department of the Army EO 13526

i Declassily

• Exclude → Exempt

Authority_

• Refer To...

Review Date 194 v61<_ Bylate Calls

v9.1

HH 55355

DocId: 32424689

Page 1

46

---

## Page 2

NOFORN

MEVORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

SUBJECT: Apparent Contradictions:

Me. McNamara versus Nic. McCone

In response to your request,

attached are three separate papers

addressing the three apparent contradictions concerning FROG missiles,

the "static situation,"

and submarine bases.

Each of these papers presents in sequence the relevant statements

or testimony with an indication of source, the facts pertinent to the

testimony as provided by DIA, and a brief conclusion. Some statements

by Mr. Hughes of DIA have been included since these statements are used

a reference point in your subsequent statements.

I SEEN

55355

DooId: 32424689

Page 2

---

## Page 3

mALi

APPARENT FROG MISSILE CONFRADICTION

BLADEMINIS:

Mr. McNamers

Mr.

Hughes

. (Briefing)

This photograph was taken of the LaBoca

Pier area (Mariel) on 27 Dec 62. Agatn our

aircraft are weeping back and forth and

observed this Soviet ship moving into the

harbor ares from out in the ocean sector,

at that time, we aleo observed parked at

dockside 10 probable frog missile trans-

porters along with their support equipment.

This ship pulled in, this equipment was

apparently loaded, and moved away from the

LaBoca area. This is one of the firet

photographs that we have firming up at least

the fact that some of the Soviet tactical

rocket forces have departed the leland,

(p. 34 - spectal Cuba Briefing)

Mr, McNamara:

Recently, our reconnaissance has

revealed that certain equiment of these

Soviet combet forces, namely that associated

with the taetical rocket units, has also

started to be moved out of the island back

to the Sovlet Union.

(D: 36 - Special Cube Briefing)

Mr - McCone

Mr. Kendal]:

Nr. McNamara said also, I believe,

Mr. Metone, that the frog misalles were

being sent back to Fussia. There has

been no previous mention by anyone that

any of these have been shipped out. What

1s your position on this?

Mr. MoCone:

Some six weeks ago, we noted that

ten or 12 frog missile louchers were on

the dock at Mariel, I believe, and

presumably were loaded on a ship.

We

continued to carry the number of miestles,

of frog: missiles, and launchere, in

Cuba that I mentioned yesterday, which the

range is 24 to 32:

Mr. C11ne:

That ls the wissiles themselves.

Mr. McConé:

Those are the missiles themselves.

Mr. Kendall:

Have you ever carried more than that

estimate?

Mx. MoCone:

I do not bellere so, no.

(D: 93-Testimony before Stennis Comnittee)

NW 55355 DooId: 32424689

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET, NOFORM

John Scall, ABC:

Mr. Secretary, you said that certain

equipment associated with the remaining

Soviet forces has started to move out.

Can you give us some details on that and

what you think it means?

Ms. McNamara:

Yes, I don't wish to over-emphasize

this point, I don't wish to mislead you

into thinking that there are clear indica-

tions that the four Soviet combat forces

which I described as having on the order

of 1, 200 men apiece, roughly 5, 000 in total,

are at the present time moving out of Cuba.

But it is a fact that certain of the equip-

ment formerly assigned to those forces,

specifically certain of the rocket equipment

has been moved out of Cuba. What this

Implies for the future, I can't state.

(p. 39, Special Cuba Briefing)

FACTS:

On 6 November 1962 low-level photography revealed five probable frog missile

transportere and two probable frog missile launchers at the Remedios Military Camp.

On 9 November 1962, a sixth probable transporter was sighted. Based on these figures.

plus the esdatence of four such major Soviet military camps, it was estimated that

from 24 to 32 frog missiles were probably in Cuba (assuming 3 or 4 missiles per

launcher). Subsequent analysis of all photography to date falls to reveal any

....

SECRET

NOFORN

NW 55355 DooId: 32424689 Page 4

---

## Page 5

definitive count of frog palaciles in Cuba or any indication of outshipment of

frog mlosiles, Therefore, the estimate of between 24 and 32 frog miasiles

in Caba remalan the beat figure. It should be noted that this is an estimate

not a count.

The estimate is based upon what was seen by photography coupled

with knowledge of Soviet organiaation and practice.

On 28 Fecember 1962 high-level photography revealed ten probable frog

misnile transportero on the dock at Martel. No frog missiles or frog missile

launchere were detected. A Soviet merchant ahip was aimultaneonaly photo-

graphed approaching the dock at Mariel on which these transportera were

dotected. Photography on 39 Decomber 1962 revealed no frog miselle trans-

portera or associated equipment on the dock at Mariel but the merchant ahip

bad not departed. Whether the tronaporters weze loaded aboard this vessel

and placed in the hold or whether the merchant vereel unloaded additional

frog missiles which were transposted by the ten transporters to some other

location in Cuba, we do not know. The presumption by CIA end the Watch

Committee was that the transportera were loaded aboard the ship.

Based

upon arrangement of transportezo. )

CONCLUSIONS:

The estimate of 24 to 32 trog miselles was made on 9 November 1962 and

zemaine unchanged.

Mr. Kendell refors to [rog Mistles being shipped out, Mr. McCons refers

to Erod Missile Launchere presumably loaded on a ship. and Mr. McNamara refers

to Equipment Associated with Tactical Rocket Unite started to bemoved out. CLA

and the Watch Committee presume that the Forg Missile Transporters were loaded

aboard ship.

774 55355

DocId: 32424689 Page 5

---

## Page 6

APPARENT STATIC SITUATION CONTRADICIION

STATEMENTS:

Mr. McNamara

Vr, Fughes:

..Along with this equipment removed

from Cuba, we estimated that 5,000 Soviet

soldiers and technicians have also depart-

ed the faland. Remaining in Cuba, thère-

fore, are the defensive weapons ayateme

shown here at their deployed locations,

along with the approximately 17,000 Soviet

troops and techniolans:

(p. 32 - Spectal Cubs Brieting, 6 Feb 63)

Mix. McVamare :

In sumery, then, ladies and gentle

men; we have recorded the entry of Soviet

offensive weapons systems into Cuba and we

have reported the introduction into Cuba

of a subetantial quantity of Soviet military

personnel and Soviet military equipment,

defensive arms, Soviet military personnel

on the island, Including techniciens increased;

we belleve, to a total of approxinately

22,000 by roughly the lst of November:

That total, at Mr. Hughee reported to you;

Mr. McCone

Mr. Kendall:

Mr. Mellonare also indicated

that he considered Cuba to be a

lessening military throat since

military people and equipment are

being moved out. I think this is a

direct quote, "There appeare to be

some continuing movenent out. " This

ls contrary to the information at least

I have, My informtion 1e that after

the missiles and the IL-28s were moved

out, with the roduction that you have

indicated to 5,000 personnel there has

only been a rotation of people home

and & continuing movement in of the

supplies and spare parts and bacup

armunition for such things as 3A-2.

Will you corment on that?

Mr. MaCone:

Yes, sir, we observed the withdrawal

of what appears to be about 5,000 men

at the time that the MRiMe and the TREMG

NW 55355 DooId: 32424689 Page 6

---

## Page 7

has been reduced by the Disem Barkation,

removal of about 5,000 men from Cuba and

thetr shipment to the Soviet Union, leaving

• total of about 17,000 Soviet military

personnel including technicians in Cuba

today:

(D. 35 - Special Cuba Briefing, 6 Feb 63)

Question: (Untdentified - Believed to be

Ann Bordone, Northern Virginia Sun)

Mr. Secretary, I gather from what you

say that in recent weeke Cuba has becone

less of a military threat to the United

States than it was at the time right after

the crisis, after the missiles and the

bombers were removed, less of a threat in

the sense of, I think you said, 5,000

Russians had retumed to the lomeland.

It is a lessening threat to the United

States, fron what I gather.

Secretary McNamare:

Cube is & lessening military threat

to the extent that the militery personnel

of the Soviet Union and their equipment are

being removed. As you point out, 5,000 Soviet

military personnel have moved out in the last

eight or nine weeks, and there appears to be

some continuing novement out. What the future

holds, I can't say.

(p. 50 - Special Cuba Briefing, 6 Feb 63)

NW 55355 DooId: 32424689 Page 7

CrODr

and the bombers were renoved. It te

assumed that this personnel are the ones

that were in charge of these units and

responeible for then, and alao possible

some collateral support and security

forces in connection with those particular

weapons systems,

The removal of the troops occurred

alnost concurrently with the removal

of the equipment.

Now, since then we have observed

what we feel 19 a relatively static

situation with, as I said yesterday,

with some rotation. We are continually

getting intercepts, one as recently

as yesterdey, speaking of going home,

but we Interpret this from our observan

tion as rotational rather than a

withdrawal.

Genetor Stennis :

If counsel would yield just there,

Mr. McNamara, that very point there,

about the Becretary saying it was

lessening, here are his exact worde as

quoted here in the morning paper,

*A

lessening military threat."

We have

rule in the courtroom that we won't

sang on one witness to pass on the

CONL

---

## Page 8

Jail a

validity of another witness' testimony,

that l6 for the judge or the jury to

decide, and particularly we wouldn't

want you to have to pass on Mr. McNamara's

testimony.

But how could there be such a

difference in your testimony? Do you

have accéss to the same facts?

Melone:

Yes.

Senator Sternts:

Yourself?

McCone:

Yes, ve have eccess to the same

facts. It la a matter of judgement.

Senetor Stennis:

A matter of judgement onlv?

Mr. McGone:

I have expressed by views and I

think, Mr. Chairnan, you vill have to

ask Mr. McNamara how he reached his

conclusions.

Senator Stennis:

It is highly cormendable that you

did and I was avoiding any personal

confliet between you.

NW 55355 DooId: 32424689

Page 8

---

## Page 9

None what so ever:

Senetor Stennis:

I say I was avoiding the interference

In the record or even in the Committee

but this ls a matter of judgement and

you certainly don't see any lessening of

the milltary strength after the with

drawal of the 5,000.

. 93-95, Testimony Stennis Comittee)

FAOTS:

Since the departure of the last contingent of the IL-28 bombers and the personnel

secompanying them, we have observed no significant change in Soviet military forces in

Cuba.

There have been sone small shipments of military-associated tronsport and a

number of large crates which coula contain additional coastal defense cruise missiles

arriving in Cuba. However, there have been no major changes in the personnel

..... situation. Mr. McCone's statement that, 'We are continually setting intercepts, one

as recently as yesterday, speaking of going home, but we interpret this from our

observation as rotational rather than a withdrawal," 16 confirmed as essentially the

Interpretation of the Intelligence cormunity. On this basis we would consider the

present situation as one of neither build-up nor reduction but rather statie.

Regarding Mr, McNamera's statement concerning, "A lessening military threat,"

from the stendpoint of offensive capabilities against the United States as currently

known and estimated by the Intelligence cormunity, this would be a correct statement,

with the removal of the offensive MRiMe and the II-28 bombers, the military threat of

Cuba vie-a-vis the United States in lese than it was prior to this action on the part

of the Soviet Union. However, there is no

18 definitive evidence to show that this 1s

ULUNCH

NW 55355 DooId: 32424689 Page 9

---

## Page 10

UNCH

e continuing novement but rather that it has been completed.

CONCLUSIONS :

The statement concerning "A lessening military threat" in the contest of

offensive capebilities againat the United States as currently known ond estimated

is a correct statenent. (Lees than prior to the removal of the MEMo and IL-28

bombere.)

There ie no definitive evidence to show that this is a continuing movement

but rather that the movement has been completed.

SLUNLI

HH

55355

DocId: 32424689

Page

10

---

## Page 11

* ESECRET

APPARENT SUBMARINE BASE CONTRADICLION

SLAINENTS:

Nr. McNamara

Question: (Unidentifled Source)

Mr. Secretary, are there any sea-based

offensive weapons of the Polarle type or

others operating in and around Cuba?

Secretary McNamara:

No, and I think perhaps what you have in

mind is that there are recurring mors that

,the Soviets have established submarine bases

on the shores of Cube, bases which might pre-

sumably be wied for submarines carrying

missiles. We have no evidence whatsoever

that such basee have been established.

As

a matter of fect, we have positive evidence

that they have not been,

(D: 144 - Special Cubà Briefing, 6 Peb 63)

Mr: McCone

Ton. MeCone:

We know of no submarines in the

vicinity of Cuba at the present time.

In October there were four submarines

that wé had under surveillance that:

were wreat of the Azores, and & nother

ship ta the vicinity of the Azores

which we likewise had under surveillance.

They are building a herbor under

the cover of a fishing trawler herbor.

I heve no doubt but what they will

inatall in Cube facilitles for the

mainterance of submarines.

The Soviet nucleer submarine fleet

and ite missile launching fleet is

growing, at you know, and it would be

very conventent for them to have a

place to operate out of.

The Soviet communications link

between Moscow and the Havana consists

of two linke which have been installed

since the 20th of October: One

appeare to support the Soviet Naval

operations and the other links the

Soviet minister of defense with

NW 55355

DooId: 32424689

Page 11

---

## Page 12

For SECRET

the commander of the Soviet forces

in Cuba.

These are very ominous, and important

developments, in my opinion.

(From the Inclosure to Memorandun to

the President from Mr. Mcdone atd

7 Feb 63 which liste Mr. McConele

public and private statémenta.)

Mr. Kendall:

Now, on the question of sulmurine

base capability in Cuba, Mr. MeNamera

was quite emphatic that there was none

and, as I recall, It was your judgement

that the developmente of such bases

was cither in being or very probably

for the future.

Can you verify your position on that?

Mx. McCone:

Yes, I think my position was thet

there appeare to be under construction

a marine base the announced purpose of

which was to service fishing trawlers and

sinilar ships but I had no doubt but

what it would and could cerve as & eub-

mrine servicing base; that the existence

of such a base would be highly desirable.

However, we cannot say absolutely

that that particular base is to be a

HH 55355

DooId: 32424689

Page 12

---

## Page 13

DECEA

SLONLI

bubmarine base.

(D. 101 - Testimony Stennis Committee)

FACTS:

The joint Moscow-Havana announcement of the signing of an agreement to construct

"a fishing port" capable of handling a large number of fishing trawlers and the

facilities for processing the catch caused considerable apprehension and speculation

within the intelligence comminity as to the real purpose of thie port.

It wes

speculated thet such a facility could be used as a base for servicing Soviet subnarines

at sea, we have no evidence that this le the intonded purpose of the fishing port.

Mr. NcCones statement that, "there appeers to be under construction a marine bade, "

is en unfortunate chotce of words in that our information indicates that construction

is due to begin in Februrny 1963 and therefore the bage could at best be only in the

initiol stages of construction. We have no evidence that work has actually started

on this construction. At the present time we are unable to deternine whether or not

the fishing port could be used as a submarine base. At the request of DIA the Navy

has undertaken a study to determine the suitability for using this fishing port or

any other facility in Cube as a submarine base. This study should be completed

within the next week.

CONCLUSION:

There is no evidence that construction has started.

Tere is no evidence that the fishing port wil be used as a submarine base.

me on 'in.

We have not been able to determine whether the fishing port site could be used

As a

submarine base. (Study has been undertaken: )

SECRET

NH 55355 DocId: 32424689 Page 13

---

