# docid-32306706

## Page 1

Released under the John'T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10290-10346

HQ

92-6054-2271

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NK

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/25/1968

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, DEATH THREAT,

BONANNO, JOE AND BILL, PROFACI, SAL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306706

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 05C 2107 Hote).

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date: 1/25/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, NEWARK (92-1203) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

NK 2207-C-TE on 1/22/68,

furnished the following

information to SA BERTIE J. WRISTON, JR.:

JOHN "SONNY" FRANZESE met with JOSEPH "WHITEY"

DANZO On 1/18/68, In MAC

The purpose of the meeting

set up by FRANZASE = was

to determine on whose side is

SAL PROFACI, JR., in the JOE BONANo dispute, and mat

waS DANZO'S

attitude toward a situation in which

"something" may happen to saL PRoFaCI, JR.

FRANZESE

definitely left the impression that Jor and BILL BONANNO

would be "hit" and that SAL PROFACI], JR., would also be

"hit" if he chose allegence with JOE and BILL BONANNO.

FRANZESE is a Godfather to sone of "WHITEY"

DANZO's children.

SAL PROFACI, JR., is married to DANZO's

daughter. BILL BONANNO is married to SAL PROFACI, JR.'S

sister.

3-Burezu

-New York (92-2300)

(1-92-

(1-92-220)

). (BILL BONANNO

(JOE BONANNO

(1-92-

SORT SAENTRANESE 12-6054/2281

(FRANK SALERNO)

(JOE YAKOVELLI)

REG- 38

20 JAN 27 1968

5-Newark

(1-92-2484) (SAL PROFACI,

• (1-92-2289)

"JR.)

(JOSEPH DANZO)

(1-137-1013)

BJW/maj

8C7 BI

(15)

Approved:

BIFFR A198

cial Abent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

DocId: 32306706 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: /11-14-2017

NK 92-1203

NK 2207-C-TE said DANZO realized what FRANZESE

was driving at, since prior to the above questions,

FRANZESE had treated him to & big dinner and drinks,

duridg part of which FRANZESE talked about how JOr

BONANNO had fouled things up, had tried to throw his

weight around and grab everything for himself.

DANZO told FRANZESE he did not care what

happened to SAL PROFACI, JR., aS IONg AS SAL'S wife and

kids were provided for.

Informant said DANZO is not a made member of

ICN, but is under FRANK SALERNO, age 70-72, 5'g" - 10",

slender build, brown eyes, thinning gray hair, weare

thted glasses

and expensive clothes, resides Lafayet*€

2222

St., just off prince

St., NYC.

SALERNO iS DANZO'S COUSin

and

is a

"consuleri" is

the GENOVESE LCN "family".

Iniormant said SAL PROFACI, JR., is In the JOE

COLOMBO "family" of LCN and his "captain"

1s JOE YAKOVELLI.

NYO is requested to send Newark background

information and a photograph of FRANK SALERNO.

DocId: 32306706

Page 3

---

