# docid-32291076

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10206-10352

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-22

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. CAR

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/07/1976

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT: CUBANA AIRLINES, BOMBING, ACA, OBA, ASSOC, SUSP, BKG, TRA, PEP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

05/11/1998

STATUS Redact

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

NW 45701 DocId: 32291076 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 10/8/76

GENERAL INVESVIGATIVE DIVISION

SECRET

Attached from Legat,

Caracas advises of crash,

possibly caused by a bomb, of Cubana Airlines Flight 455

~(DC-8"Aircraft leased by Cubana from Air Canada), in the

Caribbean Sea off the coast of Barbados at about 1:45 p.m.,

10/6/76, shortly after takeoff from Seawell Airport,

Barbados, en route to Havana, Cuba, via Kingston,

Jamiaca.

No survivors among

78 passengers.

Airport

official at Barbados reportedly informed that pilot told

tower there had been an explosion in one of the rear

lavatories of the plane. Flight log recovered after

crash noted power failure in #4 engine but no mention of

- explosion.- Trinidad and Tobago Police (TTP) are holding.

two Venezuelan citizens, Jose Vazquez Garcia and Freddy

Lugo, whom they believe

may be connected with this crash.

TTP request any information of these individuals. Legat,

Cuban exile khown ano

Posada is

for his anti-Castro activities.

This

same confidential source advised that in view of ärrest

of Vazquez and Lugo the Venezuelan Government is arranging El

for Posada

and Orlando Bosch Avila (leader of Coordinacion

de Organizaciones Revolucionarias Unidas (CORU) to leave

Venezuela as soon as possible.

The source all but

E)

admitted that Posada and Bosch had engineered the bombing

of the airline.

From statement of source it appears

almost certain that Venezuelan Government was privy

• to

activities

of Posada and Bosch. Appropriate dissemination

being made.

FBI Identification Division records negative re

Lugo and Garcia. Lugo at time of arrest had in possession

address book with Legat Caracas'

Legat, Caracas

nas no recollection of ever having met Vazquez. Lugo.

Legat, Caracas has had limited contact with Posada while

employed with Venezuelan Counterintelligence and after his

resignation from Venezuelan Counterintelligence in

connection with visa request.

FBIHQ files negative re Garcia,

however, files indicate Lugo was approached by Cuban Agents

(connected with Embassy in Caracas) in 1975,

information. Lugo then offered services to Venezuelan sered S

intelligence officials. Legat Caracas

1-

Mr. Held

1

- Mr. Adams

1 - Mr. Leavitt

HEREIN IS UNCOASSIFT REVIEWED SEE WIFK TASK FORCE

EXCEPT WHERE SHOBONTINUED

OTHERWISE

ON 9/11/96 52S,0

JBL:pdh: sas

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir:.

Dep. AD Adm.:

Dep: AD Inv RA leun

Asst. Diris

Ext. Affairs..

Laboralory.

RELEASE IN FULL

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv...

Legal Cgun RELEASE IN PART

Plan. & Insp.

Ident....

Intelli

Spec. Inv......

Training.

6-1-83

NW 45701 DocId: 32291076

Page

2

---

## Page 3

PAGE FOUR CAR 2-9

SECRET

"PAGE IN POSSESSION OF LUGO APPARENTLY FROM ADDRESS BOOK WITH

LETTER "E" ON IT CITED FOLLOWING: EMBASSY AMERICAN 2846111-127;

FBI JOSEPH LEO 331511•

"TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO POLICE ARE FINGERPRINTING BOTH SUSPECTS

AND COPYING ALL DOCUMENTS IN THEIR POSSESSION•

"TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO POLICE REQUEST URGENTLY ANY INFORMATION

OF THESE PERSONS, PARTICLLARLY ANY CRIMINAL RECORDS. NO OBJECTION

IO LEGATT CONTACTING LOCAL POLICE/SECURITY SERVICES. POLICE REQUEST

AT LEAST INTERIM REPLY BEFORE 1700 LOCAL TIME. PLEASE SEND REPLY

NIACT IMMEDIATE.

"POLICE WOULD LIKE TO KNOW IF ANYONE FROM LEGAIT OFFICE PLANS

TO COME TO TRINIDAD ON THIS CASE, OR HOW YOUR WOULD LIKE TO RECEIVE.

COPIES OF FINGERPRINI S, ET C."

VENEZUEL AN IDENI IFICAI ION BUREAU ADVISED ON OCTOBER 7, 1976,

THAT PASSPORTS ISSUED TO VAZQUEZ AND LUGO ARE VALID. PIJ, CARACAS,

INFORMED THAT. NEITHER HAS PRIOR ARREST RECORD. LEGAT HAS NO

RECOLLECTION OF EVER HAVING MET VAZQUEZ OR LUGO. CARACAS FILES

NEGATIVE REGARDING THEM. (5)

ON OCTOBER 7, 1976, A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ABROAD ADVISED THAT

END PAGE FOUR

STATE DEPENFO REMAINS

"D'ETE." AN PARA Y) PER DES

AUTHORITY

9/17/96.

SECRET

2-2173-22

NW 45701 DocId: 32291076 Page 3

---

## Page 4

D-0

PAGE FIVE CAR 2-9

E CRET

FREDDY LUGO IS A VENEZUALEN NEWSMAN WHO IS ALSO EMPLOYED AS AN IN-

VESTIGATOR BY LUIS POSADA, FORMER HEAD OF THE COUNTER INTELLIGENCE

DIVISION, DISIP, CARACAS. HE RESIGNED FROM HIS POSITION WITH DI SIPES)

1973, AFTER THE ELECTION OF VENEZ LELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES

FEREZ A POSADA IS A CUBAN EXILE WHO IS KNOWN FOR HIS ANTI-CASTRO

ACTIVITIES, AND HE REPORTEDLY ASSISTED ORLANDO BOSH AVILA IN 1974,

SHORTLY BEFORE BOSCH WAS ARRESTED BY VENEZ LELAN AUTHORITIES.

LEGAT BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH POSAD A WHILE THE LATTER WAS

EFFILIATED WITH DISIANO AFTER HIS RESIGNATION, POSADA CONTINUED

TO CONTACT LEGAT ON RARE OCCASIONS, USUALLY IN ORDER TO OBTAIN

PERSONAL IZED SERVICE IN CONNECT ION WITH VISA REQUESTS. IN VIEW OF

LUGO'S EMPLOYMENT BY POSADA, LEGAT ASSUMES HIS NAME AND TELEPHONE

NUMBER WERE FURNISHED TO LUGO BY POSADA. LEGAT ESTIMATES HE HAS

SEEN POSADA IN PERSON ON PERHAPS THREE OCCASIONS SINCE 1973, THE

LAST TIME BEING ON JUNE 10, 1976, WHEN POSADA VISITED LEGAT OFFICE

TO INQUIRE IF FBI HAD INTEREST IN CARLO BORDONI (BUFILE 29168654;

CAR FILE 29-15). INFORMED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE, POSADA REVEALED

BORD ONI HAD HIRED TWO OF HIS OPERATIVES AS ARMED BODY GUARDS AT HIS

HOME. THAT INFORMATION WAS SUBSEQUENTLY PASSED BY LEGAT TO [VENE-

ZUELAN POLICE WHO WERE INVOLVED. IN THE ARREST ACI ION AGAINST BORDONI. (SO

END PAGE FIVE

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32291076 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE SIX, CAR 2-9

SYE

CRET

POSADA MORE OFTEN REFERRED TO LEGAT RELATIVES AND ASSOCIATES

SEEKING ADVICE REGARDING VISAS, THE LAST BEING ONE OF HIS EMPLOYEES,

HER NAN RICARDO LOZANO, WHO SOUGHT A VISA TO TRAVEL TO SAN JUAN,

PUERTO RICO, ON OCTOBER 1, 19760 LEGAI WILL PROVIDE ADDITIONAL INFO

DEVELOPED REGARDING RICARDO IN A SUBSEQUENT COMMUNICATION.

ON OCTOBER 7, 1976, THE CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE FURTHER ADVISED THAT

IN VIEW OF THE ARREST OF VAZQUEZ AND LUGO IN TRINIDAD, THE VENEZUELAN

Sine

GOVER NME NI

WAS

ARRANGING FOR LUIS POSADA AND ORLAND BOSCH AVILA TO

LEAVE VENEZUEL ATAS SOON AS POSSIBLE. THE SOURCE ALL BUT ADMITTED

THAT POSADA AND

BOSCH HAD ENGINEERED THE BOMBING OF THE AIRLINE, AND

HE PROMISED TO FURNISH FURTHER DETAILS ON OCTOBER 8, 1976.

ADMINISTRATIVE: CONFIDENT IAIL SOURCE IS

HEAD

-COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION, DISIP, CARACAS,

VENEZUEL A.

FROM STATEMENIS OF

J IT APPEARS ALMOST CERTAIN THAT THE

VENEZUEL AN GOVERNMENI WAS PRIVY TO THE ACTIVITIES OF POSADA AND

BOSCH AND THAT IT NOW WILL ATTEMPT TO DISASSOCIATE IT SELF FROM

THEM FOR FEAR OF RETALIAT ION BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT.

BI

SECRET

NW 45701 DocId: 32291076 Page 5

OTHER 1C

OTHER 1C

---

