# docid-32160416

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10140-10004

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-126129-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: LEG, LO

TITLE :

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/11/1964

MRP, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/03/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32160416

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released unter the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

741 USC

2107 Hotel.

CODE

SECRET

URGENT

3-11÷64

1 - Gheesling

CABLEGRAM

TO

LEGAT LONDON

FROM DIRICTOR FBI (105-126129)

116/92 9803/00SAT(

Hassled by 2P8 61)

WXCHAEL RALPH PAINE, IS - R.

RE LEGAT, LONDON, AINTEL FEBRUARY FIVE NINETEEN SIXTY-FOUR.

ADVISE IS CABLI SUSHIS SLINS TO LONT

FOR INTERVIEW.

BUDED MARCH SIXTEEN

COPY MAILED DALLAS.

1 - Dallas (105-1716) yea

WMG: PDB

05)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for review)

NOTE:

We are conducting investigation concerning subject and his

wife, Ruth Paine, at the request of the President's Commission.

Reverend and Mrs. Anthony Paul Treasure were allegedly présent

during 1950 discussion between the families of Michael and Ruth

Paize

Subject reportedly was also present and during this discussion

various statements were allegedly made to the effect that the Korean

War was all a mistake and that the U. S. would be better off if the

conmunists took over and that we should permit this rather than

fight the communists. The treasures are reportedly residing in

england and legat is attempting to determine their location for

Bureau.

REE A 05 / 24/24 - 41 ame

(i)

ALL ENPORNATTON FONTAYNAD

EXREIN IS UNCLAT-IZIRD

see.

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

losen

Sullivan

Tavel

far.

EX103

VIA CABLEGRAM

MAR'1 1 1904

NR.

ENG.

CK

APPROVED BY

TYPED BY

333S

0/6

:,Holmes.

Gandy

81964

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

DocId: 32160416 Page 2

---

