# docid-32297738

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10014

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-1ST NR 207

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. CAR

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/23/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

OBA, CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8, BOMBING, LIST OF NAMES, REQ,

RELATIONSHIP WITH FBI

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/14/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32297738 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Récords Collection Act of 1997

DATE: 1

11514-2017

144 U5C 2707

Tate,

DoD.-A:D.-Adnz,

Aeạt. Dir:

DeR Adore

10.232130Z OCT 76

IMACARACAS

TO DIRECT OR

SEGRET

Ident.

IMMEDIATE MP

195-23

BI

Logai Coan.

Fion

Firent. -

Spec.

--------

Telephone Rm.

Director

Eng'y -

INSUB; BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE

UNITED STATES, MASSACHUSETIS AVE., WASHINGION, D.C..

SEPTEMBER

21, 1976; ACT FOR PROTECI ION OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS,

EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARY DEVICES.

INSUBS; SUSPECIED BOMBING OF

CIBANA AIRLINES DC-8 NEAR

BARBAROS, LEST TOTES, OCTOBER 6, 1975. IM-CUBA-WEST INDIES.

PEBUIEL, OCTOBER 22, 1976.

U.S. AMBASSADOR VAXY HAS ASKED LEGAT AND [CIA STATION CHIEF, J

(5)

CARACAS, TO REQUEST THEIP. RESPECT IVE HEAD QUARTERS TO. ADVISE WHAT

CONNECTION, IF ANY, FEI AND CIAJMAVE MAD WITH PERSONS INVOLVED IN(S

ONE WAY OR ANOTHER WITH INVESTIGATIONS OF CAPTIONED MATTERS.

AMSASSADOR HAD BEEN TOLD BY LEGAI IHAI RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE

WAS FORMER SOLPGE CE INFORMATION OF FBI, MIAMI,

AND

HAS NOW BEEN

2173

APPRISED IHAT MORALES WAS PAID INFORMANT OF NOF-RECORGED HE IS

ANARE THAI MORALES AND ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEROZINUE BEEN IAISONE

DONT ACTS OF LEGAI

BUT

HAVE NEVER BEEN PAID IMPORMANT SOtHE

155-784

ORIGINAL FILED IN

CARACAS OFFICE.

END

PAGE ONE

OBJECTION TO

NO

CIA HAS

CLASSIFICATION AND/OR

EASE OF CIA INFORMATION

HIS DOCUMENT. GMB

8/5/96

ASSANITIZEA

C

6 1976

WACEAAATEITE

Langue

soswered

relerype

5p8 mAC/USIe

18-9-94

Hastied by beselea

Declassify on: QADR 690/88

SPEMACGOL

3/сл-ПЕр)

TION CONTAINED

6227

CDASSTVTZU

WINDERS SHOWA-

SECRET

DocId: 32297738

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

PAGE I WO, CARAÇAS

AMBASSADOR

HAS NEVERTHELESS ASKED THAT LEGAT PROVIDE

BUREAU WITH FOLLOWING LIST OF NAMES AND REQUEST BUREAU TO ADVISE

WHAT, IF ANY, RELATIONSHIP THE FBI MAY HAVE HAD WITH THEM IN THE

PA ST :

ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA

X ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE

FREDDY LIGO

/ HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO

Á LUIS POSADA CARRILES :

* OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ

* FRANCISCO NUNEZ NA

X CELSA TOLEDO

(2 (1)

AMBASSADOR IS PARTICILARLY CONCERNED ABOUT REPORIED STORIES

APPEARING IN "MIAMI HERALS" IDENTIFYING RICARDO MOPALES NAVARRETE

AS FORMER CIA AGENT

/WHEREAS CIA STATION CHIEF HAS NO SUCH

INFOPMATION](5)

BI

SECRET

DocId: 32297738

Page 3

---

