# docid-32330857

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90093-10063

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-8100-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/17/1966

PAGES:

8.

SUBJECTS :

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF SBA

COMMENTS: RPT, REFERRED TO SBA

v9.1

DocId: 32330857

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

F24268 (Rev. 5-1-59) :

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

6/17/66

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/25-6/13/66

REPORT MADE BY

SA MAURICE A. KELLIHER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

dca

NOF IO PECORA, aka

AR

REFERENCES:

Report of SA MAURICE A. KELLIHER on 4/25/66 at

New Orleans.

-P-

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

LEADS:

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

- WilT review pertinent

records to determine amount of

real estate holdings held by PECORA and his wife, FRANCES

SMITH PECORA.

Will attempt to discreetly ascertain through NO 1292-C

if PECORA received a $200,000 insurance payment as a result

CASE PENDING OVER ONE YEAR - NO

PROSECUTION PENDING OVER SIX MONTHS - NO

PECIAL AGEN

I CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

8-1000

JUN 22 1960

REC. 21

Can 38

SECEIS

ЖИ 50 3

, SI DH.0e

NOTATIONS

DELICE

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT.

EBT

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

H9 JUN 29 1966

DocId: 32330857 Page 2

u.s. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OF

---

## Page 3

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to: 1-UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, NEW ORLEANS

Report of: SA MAURICE A. KELLIHER

Date:

June 17, 1966

Field Office File #: 92-603

Title:

NOFIO PECORA

Office:

NEW ORLEANS

Bureau File #:

92-8100

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Subject interviewed on 4/25/66 and advised Tropical Tourist

Court severely damaged by Hurricane Betsy and he is planning

on building a two

story shopping center on that site.

records located at SBA to indicate that PECORA applied for

SBA loan as result of damages caused by Hurricane Betsy.

DETAILS:

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32330857

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released unter, the Torn

DATF 307 7-14157417

Henirtemy:

Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 1419050

2107 Mote) .

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

June 17, 1966

MARCEL Q. ABADIE, Acting Chief of Loan

Administration Section, Small Business Association, 630

Camp Street, advised that a search of his files failed

to reflect that NOFIQ PECORA had applied for a Small

Business Association loan.

Ma, ABADIE stated that no

record could be located in his files which would indicate

that a loan had been applied for by individuals under the

name Tropical Tourist Court.

On.

-3-*=

6/15/66 at.

New Orleans, louisiana File#_

_ 92-603

by-

SA MAURICE A, KELLIHER/dea

Date dictated =

6/15/66

This document contoins nelther recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl.llals the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

i and its confents ore norto be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32330857 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATA:

11-14-2017

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

LAUNITED STATES ATTORNEY,

NEW

ORLEANS

Report of:

SA MAURICE A. KELLIE&R

Date:

June 17, 1966

Field Office File #: 92-603

Title:

NOFIO PECORA

Office:

NEW ORLEANS

Bureau File #:

92-8100

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Subject interviewed on 4/25/66 and advised Tropical Tourist

Court severely damaged by Hurricane Betsy and he is planning

on building a two story shopping center on that site.

records located at SBA to indicate that PECORA applied for

SBA loan as result of damages caused by Hurricane Betsy.

-p'=

DETAILS:

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its

contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32330857

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released understhe Ton.F?

DATE 50270v415&p17

Retir

Pily

Assassination Regords Collection Act of 1992(11 USt 210) Hote).

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date_

June 17, 1966

MARCEL Q. ABADIE,

Asting Chlet of Loan

Administration Section,

Sma11 Business Assoctation,

680

canp Street, advised that a sensch of his files failed

to reflect that Norto PECORA had applied for a Small

Business Assoctation loan.

U. ABADIE stated that no

record could be located in his files which would indicate

that a loan had been applied for by individuale under the

nane Tropical Tourist Coust.

-3-*

So Louisdana File#.

On_

6/15/66a1.

stem

02-G0S

by_

DA MONIES A. KELETHER/dER

Date dictated

6/15/66

This document contains nelther recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. l

Is the property of the FBI and is looned to your ogency;

"Is and its contents are not to be disiributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32330857 Page 6

---

