# docid-32272552

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10144-10265

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

31-01B-05

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

HSCA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

41

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

OSWALD, LEE, 201 FILE

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

OTHER

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/01/2003

• OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 25 Notecards from HSCA staffers

wH 53080 DocId: 32272552

Page 1

---

## Page 2

31 missing does.

Re saything ususual @ does missing from 0'3 201 file: I noticed 25 were eables. May be they were easidered

to be seasitive s were being held in . A. Bidision rather this geing to do file i registry. If regarding telephane tops,

ete., that's good resson for net putting

them in. (p.29)

Doc. may have been marked SeRT 194S ONY" because there was a lot of overclassifying. lp. 30).

R. M1. Helms.

-819l75

OI Code.

A: It is a to letter indieator that is utilized so that we can search against the a01 system Sor

certain. types of info. some eustomers, some desks sin the Dir. of Ops. have asked thant preople that

they put in the system be eoded..

Q: Does the OT lode appear anywhere in the subject's aa file?

A: The form 831 that is used to put info. into the system I believe provides a space on it to indicate.

to indieate 3 a eopy of thest form will deny likely be in the aor file.

you might not see it in the 20l file.

Doesnit knob if they were in existence in 19sae 1960.

WHO'S opening steet doesn't have a box 13 for an OI code.

WeB. Lauson.

6/27/78

p. 43-44,45

NW 53080 DooId: 32272552 Page 2

---

## Page 3

201 files - PRQ'S

not sane ve is file ot, he enol i have compate TR, Part I Pant I may or may

assessment type into...

W.B. Larson

6/27/78

-p.5.1-53

J01 file opening sheet.

Photos - not so.p. (p-467)

-W. B: Larson.

6/27/78

p.46

53080

DooId: 32272552 Page 3

---

## Page 4

a01 files - purging destruction

purgna -done Herough dest ottier or IMS p-59-62

destruction-

Whale files p. 67-68.

partial tiles p-68-b1 It might be dery possible to destroy the paper that exists namediately

in your hands. However, most paper that toas is official paper coming from the field 2-asine

out to the field is laged, a record of the existeace of that paper is some place beyond your control.

..Nowif you_are.talking@@piece.of.paper_thatsman_tos.rested_kimself..it is a_memo

eirculating st hea. i there are only lor z copies, it is inconceivable that indiv eould destroy it

alout a trace (p.68=9)

"W.Bharson

6/27/78

_p-59-62, 67-68

"Prosecuted limited commuscations

W. B. Lalson

- 6/27/78

-p- 25-6..

53080

DooId: 32272552

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Xeréferekeing ef true names, 201#'5, pseudoss crypts.

W.B.Larson_

-6|21|78

-p. 36- 4:0

Defiwitions:

Field daent

Stast agent

. W.B - harson.

-6/27 78

p.33

53080

DooId: 32272552

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Inter. Ageney Source. Register.

ISR: a register maintained in which other ageneies of the gott register their interest in a person..

he are melie partin pa the very aily beate as earl ste their

ISR doesn't contain CIA'S agents. (p. 38)

B. M.Touar

6/29/78

p. 34-38.

to tad of

LHO's 201 - restrieted

4 other bide tito

- Hair file el restriped.

Qi Can you think of any reason... that Os file would have been restricted.

As the din reason I lon thick of is that some element has pulling together all ef the files that were

germane to dets. in C. Europe or in the Sill. i aas collating them for

that oleuis to me.

some purpose. That is the only thing

k: 2 sit it the ot get t KO that i file wis nutrited ?

Q: Anything neusual D it being restricted?

A: Restricted bust not permanently Changed to restrictor-probably could have been both if he were agent..

Q: Follow-up to find out?

permanent eage., then I would go in the direction of thinking that this was just a cellectied of des is far as

this wait was concerned.

W. B.104/5011

6/27/78

p. 81-83

NW 53080 DooId: 32272552 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Agent

ISSUe

methodology

/ Wilcott

Rewrite

CI/SIG

Opening sheet

#2

Restricted

I Herogs

attis Conclusions

WilLott

Hartman Nepo.

131 missing does.

contents of 20is

PROS

purging i destruction

empty or fake files

indiestion of Ag. relationship

Inter- Ag. S.R. (ISR)

*JRInterviews

*CI/RE - HTL.

*ZRRIFLE / ZRTAFFY

AG

ole. ¿ Intell. code -tor computers (p.15)

aldays in 2 letters

never indicate Ag. relationskip (p. 15)

'A": communism

(p.16)

2nd letter: esteg. Whin Comm. structure 1p. 16)

presume that by time we reached this edde, we had ony

gone to A. F. "6." wasn't in existeace as there were no prous.

for index. Ari. dess. (p.16).

→ wet to machine system i requested code -11.6. (p.16-7)

X Dresit know when notation was added to O form (p. 14)

Dont know witen anything on form was aded. 3.0.p. to update

Psorms to theg're as refective as we can make them. (p.r)

NeIA Response -

Others

Don't kow

Helms (p. 26): Rocco (p-220); EgerterLp.52?); Tovar(p.34);

Explan, DI Code

barkori (p.43-44) does't think wHo's form had space

HH

53080

DocId: 32272552

Page

---

## Page 8

IRRIFLE - Fake or cover 201 files; Weth ZeTAFFy

6. IS file taked in manner suggested (IRKIFLE papers -CIA 3311,3314), how many would know? Up-1)

_It: Well, the person who instruited it be done. I assume his boss, the person was would do it, zurether

snybody in the RI or the Registry would know about it is problematic, they probably would net. (ps).

Black tape 201 file: never heard of it. (p. (p.19)

[ZeTAFEY: possibly on indiestor permiting material to be sent directly to Helms bypassing the division. (poo.

used to matain esotrol

R. M. Helms_

8/9/78

-p. 13-

20lfiles-conterts

OT codes p.43-45

photograph p. 46-47

PRQ3152 p. 51-53

Dp. L other scenity approvas p.53

Pseudonym p. 54

201 persomality assessment & evaluation p.54.

contraet, termination-papers i secrecy agrnt p.55.

_agent duty-status report p.s5.

training a evaluation p.56-57

SOSWIRL report p.s8.

W.B. Larson

6/27/78

NW 53080 DooId: 32272552 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-31 messeng documents (CIA # 784)

Q:. wouldnt be out of the ordinary course us business tor ones. to be missina-from a 201 tile.

A :I.woul_beunhoppy@it.westrade. to keep_201.files_complete.. This is a litil doe but I am

distressed to find a strt. such as this..

I have seen. 201 files that got every doe in them that the ran shows they should have them in

"I have seen others that did not. Quite often what happers is that the r-netereneing is ast done.

right i those does..... may exist ekewere but the X-ret, action never took place that actually

got entered in the 201 file.

Procedure to determine missing does.

- Dotain a machine listing of everything in 1H03 file 1 make x veteracing ekeel

- Ask IMS to conduct search i see it they can reconstruent sile.

W.B. Larson

6/27/78

_p.34 = 36

HIH

53080

DocId: 32272552

Page

---

